641.5097731 
C771 


t 


^/v^  ;/>;': 


; . ' ; '  'Sti 

'-"/.'INI'.' '/, \' ■;•.•-  /T-'  ^ 


UNIVERSITY  OF 

ILLINOIS  LIBRARY 

AT  URBANA  CHAMPAIGN 

OAK  STREET 

LIBRARY  FACILITY 


CORNER  BOOK  SHOT  f 

102  FOURTH  AVENUE 
NEW  YORK  3.  N.  Y.  .A_ 


The  Cook  County 
Cook  Book 


COMPILED  BY 

The  Associated  College  Women  Workers 

FROM  RECIPES  CONTRIBUTED  BY 
COOK  COUNTV^  LADIES 


PRESS    OF 

Mcelroy  publishing  co. 

CHICAGO 


Copyright.  1912 

by 

MABEL  E.  STURTEVANT 

Chicago,  111. 


/   ,11     r-     .  i/kjL 


ifbtmtein 


©0  th?  IfoUHfuitiirB  of  Qlnak  Oloittttg, 
3IUtnntB,  tn  ntlioap  logal  Bu^tport 
tl|f  Bttrr^BB  of  tittB  book  ta  bur 


INTRODUCTION 

'T^HE  Associated   College  Women  Workers  is  an  organization 
■■■  formed  by  college  students  and  graduates  who  know  from  per- 
sonal experience   the   needs   of  girls   with   limited   means   who   arc 
ambitious  for  a  college  education. 

The  purpose  of  the  organization  is  to  "help  ambitious  girls  to 
help  themselves''  by  opening  opportunities  to  them  whereby  each 
girl  can  do  the  work  .for  which  she  is  best  adapted  and  thus  receive 
the  largest  monetary  returns  for  time  and  effort  expended.  It  is 
the  aim  of  this  Association  to  give  to  any  untrained  high  school 
graduate  work  which  will  net  enough  money  during  her  summer 
vacation  to  pay  her  entire  college  expenses  for  the  remainder  of 
the  year. 

A  large  number  of  ladies  and  business  men  of  Cook  County 
very  generously  responded  to  a  call  made  by  this  Association  for 
co-operation  in  our  work  and  have  thus  made  possible  the  Cook 
County  Cook  Book,  containing  almost  twice  the  number  of  tested, 
practical  recipes  to  be  found  in  the  average  cook  book  on  the 
market  selling  for  one-half  the  price.  It  is  compiled,  edited,  and 
sold  by  college  girls  (working  under  the  direction  of  the  Associa- 
tion), who  receive  the  entire  profits  therefrom. 

The  Associated  College  Women  Workers  solicit  the  co-opera- 
tion of  every  woman  in  the  county,  and  especially  of  those  inter- 
ested in  liiglier  education  for  their  sex.  Those  who  have  had  a 
college  education  know  the  pleasure  and  benefits  derived  there- 
from. Those  who  have  not  enjoyed  that  privilege,  have  doubtless 
cherished  the  hopes  for  such  an  opportunity  and  know  the  keen 
disappointment  which  every  girl  must  feel  when  unable  to  gratify 
her  ambition  because  of  insufficient  means. 

MABEL  STURTEVANT, 
President  of  The  Associated  College  Women  Workers, 
Suite  324  McCormick  Building, 

^32  S.  Michigan  A\i^e., 

Chicago,  111, 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

page:s. 
Ckri^als  6-  15 

Eggs  16-70 

Brkad   71-151 

Soup    152-217 

Fish .218-259 

Fowl   ' .260-312 

Mkats    *. 313-353 

Game  .354-378 

Vegetables   379-424 

Cheese,  Macaroni,  Spaghetti,  Nut  and  Rice  DishES.425-436 

Salads 436-494 

Canning,  Preserving,  Jelly  Making  and  Pickling.495-512 

Pies  and  Pastry ' 513-525 

PuMiiNGs  and  Desserts 526-538 

Cake 539-554 

Cookies  and  Small  Cakes 555-560 

Ice  Cream  561-565 

Candy 566-570 

Drinks 570-574 


CEREALS 


A  GENERAL  RULE  FOR  COOKING  CEREALS. 

Add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  to  a  qt.  of  water  boiling  directly  over 
the  fire;  into  this  stir  about  a  cup  of  the  cereal  and  when  the  mix- 
ture boils,  after  all  the  cereal  has  been  ad-ded,  set  over  hot  water 
and  cook,  without  stirring,  the  requisite  time.  Whole  grains  of 
oatmeal  require  about  6  hrs.  in  cooking,  hominj-  4  hrs.,  samp  8  or 
more,  cracked  wheat  2,  Indian  meal  3  to  6  and  rice  about  40  min- 
utes. In  cookipg  cereals  from  packages  it  is  safe  to  double  the 
time  given  in  the  directions  on  the  packages. 

For  variety,  fresh  or  canned  fruit  juice  may  be  added  to  the 
cereal  when  served.  Raisins  may  be  added  with  the  salt  to  the 
water  in  which  the  cereal  is  to  be  cooked.  After  removing  the 
seeds  from  dates,  cut  into  quarters  and  stir  into  the  cooked  cereal, 
cover  and  return  to  the  range  long  enough  to  heat  the  fruit  thor- 
oughly. Prunes  and  figs  should  be  stewed  previously  until  tender, 
then  served  hot  or  cold  with  the  cereal.  Canned  fruit  of  any  kind 
may  be  used  in  the  same  way.  Bananas  may  be  sliced  without 
cooking,  and  then  served  with  the  hot  cereal;  but  even  these  will 
be  found  to  be  more  agreeable  to  most  palates  if  they  are  cooked. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S,  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BARLEY. — Barley,  when  ground,  forms  w'hat  is  known  as  bar- 
ley meal.  Cleaned  carefully,  partly  hulled  and  a  little  rounded  by 
polishing,  it  is  sold  under  the  name  of  "Pearl"  barley.  Flattened 
or  rolled  it  is  known  as  barley  flakes.  Follow  the  general  rule  for 
flaked  or  meal  cereals  and  serve  w'itli  cream  and  sugar. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BRAIN  FOOD. — Wet  1  cup  of  brain  food  in  a  little  cold  water, 
stir  into  1  qt.  of  salted  boiling  water.  Cook  over  hot  water 
1  to  2  hrs.  Eat  hot  or  cold  with  sugar  and  cream. — Mrs.  Almond 
Case,  Palatine,  111. 

6 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  7 

BREAD  SQUARES.— Cut  stale  bread  into  squares  or  blocks, 
serve  with  rich  cream  and  sugar  or  fruit  juice.  This  is  an  es- 
pecially good  breakfast  food  for  dyspeptics,  invalids  or  children. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BREWIS. — Dry  bread  in  the  oven  and  crush  with  rolling 
pin  into  crumbs.  Heat  2  cups  of  slightly  salted  milk,  and  when  it 
boils,  stir  in  a  cup  of  the  dried  crumbs.  Add  a  tablespoon  of 
butter,  and  cook,  beating  steadily,  for  5  minutes.  Serve  with 
cream  or  milk.  This  was  a  favorite  with  our  grandmothers. — Ma- 
bel Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CRACKER  GRUEL.— Mix  together  4  tablespoons  of  pow- 
dered crackers,  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  1  cup  milk,  Yi.  teaspoon 
salt.     Boil  up  once  and  serve. — >Mrs.  C.  F.  Adams,  Franklin,  111. 

CREAM  OF  WHEAT.— Add  1  teaspoon  of  salt  to  4  cups  of 
boiling  water.  Add  Yz  cup  cream  of  wheat  very  slowly,  stirring 
constantly  until  thick.  Thorough  stirring  to  avoid  lumps  is  the 
secret  of  success.  Cook  ^  to  ^  hr.  over  hot  water. — Mabel  Stur- 
tevant, 105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

EGG  GRUEL.— Mix  together  1  ^^%  yolk,  well  beaten,  1  tea- 
spoon of  sugar,  1  cup  hot  milk.  Add  the  white  of  the  ^^^,  beaten 
till  foamy,  to  the  other  ingredients.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  lemon. 
This  is  good  for  a  violent  cold  if  taken  very  hot  after  retiring. — 
Mrs.  Mary  Carpenter,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

FARINA. — This  is  a  meal  or  flour  obtained  from  cereals,  po- 
tatoes or  Indian  corn.  In  the  morning,  stir  it  into  boiling  water, 
slightly  salted,  and  cook  half  an  hour,  stirring  up  well  from  the 
bottom. — Mrs.  Julius  Carper,  Wheeling,  111. 

FARINA  GRUEL.— Put  into  a  double  boiler  1  tablespoon 
farina,  1  saltspoon  salt,  1  cup  boiling  water,  and  cook  15  minutes 
or  until  it  thickens,  add  1  cup  milk  and  boil  again.  Sweeten  to 
taste.  .Farina  is  a  granulated  preparation  of  the  inner  portion  of 
the  finest  wheat,  freed  from  bran  and  floury  dust.  It  contains 
nitrogeneous  or  fles'h  forming  material,  is  easily  digested  and  is 
a  more  nutritive  food  for  invalids  and  children  than  corn  starch, 
sago,  arrow-root,  or  tapioca,  which  contain  only  starch. — Mrs.  J. 
S.  Putnam,  Wheeling,  111. 


8  CEREALS 

FARINA  JELLY.— Heat  1  pt.  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  when 
hot  sprinkle  4  tablespoons  of  farina  in  slowly,  add  1  saltspoon  of 
salt.  Stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  then  boil  without 
stirring  for  30  minutes.  Turn  into  small  moulds,  and  stand  away 
to  cool.  Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Frank  Cress. 
Park  Ridge,  111. 

FLOUR  OF  ARROW-ROOT  GRUEL.— 1  cup  boiling  water, 
1  saltspoon  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  flour  wet  in  cold  water.  Mix  the 
flour  and  salt  and  make  into  a  smooth  thin  paste  with  cold  water; 
then  stir  into  the  boiling  water.  Cook  5  minutes  or  until  the  de- 
sired consistency  is  obtained.  Strain;  then  add  sugar,  if  preferred, 
and  thin  with  a  little  milk.  Lemon  juice,  nutmeg  or  cinnamon 
may  be  added  if  desired.  Wheat  flour,  rice  flour  or  corn  starch 
can  be  used  for  this. — Mrs.  Chas.  Johnston,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

GLUTEN  FOOD.— To  each  qt.  of  rapidly  boiling  water  add 
1  cup  of  gluten  food  very  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time;  cook  30 
minutes  and  serve  with  cream.  This  recipe  will  apply  for  Royal 
Health  Food,  Gluten  and  Gluten  Breakfast  foods.  They  are  more 
quickly  prepared  than  foods  containing  starch.  Being  rich  in 
proteids.  they  are  better  served  with  cream  than  milk. — Mrs. 
Ralph  Charters,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

GRAHAM  MUSH. — Stir  gra'ham  flour  in  boiling  water  slofw- 
ly  until  it  makes  a  thick  batter.  Set  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove 
10  minutes,  beat  2  minutes,  and  turn  into  the  dish.  Serve  with 
fruit  juice  or  sugar  and  cream. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  III. 

GRAHAM  MUSH. — Mix  half  a  cup  of  graham  flour  and  Yz 
a  teaspoon  salt.  Make  it  into  a  thin,  smooth  paste,  with  a  little 
cold  water.  Stir  it  into  1  pt.  boiling  water.  Cook  20  minutes, 
stirring  often.  Serve  with  cream. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BREAKFAST  GRITS.— Wash  ^  pt.  of  grits  through  several 
cold  waters;  then  pour  over  it  1  qt,  of  cold  water;  add  1  teaspoon 
of  salt*  and  soak  over  night.  Next  morning  cook  in  a  dout)le 
boiler  for  1  hr.  If  too  thick,  thin  with  milk.  Serve  hot  with 
cream  or  unskimmed  milk.  Left-over  grits  may  be  warmed, 
seasoned  with  butter  or  cream,  and  served  for  supper  or  break- 
fast  the   next  morning.     Cold,   well   boiled   grits,   nicely    seasoned. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  9 

make  a   good    stuffing   for  tame   duck. — Mabel    Sturtevant,    105    S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

OAT  GROATS.— Take  a  quantity  sufficient  for  2  or  3  days, 
soak  7  or  8  hrs.  in  lukewarm  water,  or  until  sufficiently  softened, 
drain  thoroughly  and  serve  with  thick  cream.  Salt  a  little  if  de- 
sired. A  dash  of  grated  nuts  may  be  added  and  they  will  make 
it  a  most  palatable  dis!h,  as  well  as  add  much  to  the  value  and 
vitalizing  properties. — Mrs.  Edith   Fairchild,  Glen  View,  111. 

HOMINY. — Soak  all  night;  cover  with  boiling  water,  slightly 
salted,  in  the  morning,  and  cook  for  an  hr.  A  delicious  prepara- 
tion of  hominy  is  effected  by  cooking  it  in  plenty  of  salted  water 
until  tender,  turning  off  the  water  and  supplying  its  place  with 
cold  milk.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  serve. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Sherman,  Pala- 
tine, 111. 

HOMINY  PUDDING.— Soak  a  cupful  of  hominy  for  3  hrs.  in 
tepid  water.  Drain,  and  put  over  the  fire  in  plenty  of  boiling 
water,  slightly  salted.  Boil  fast  for  30  minutes  or  until  tender; 
turn  off  the  water  and  pour  in  a  pt.  of  hot  milk  with  a  little  salt. 
Cook  for  15  minutes,  stir  in  a  generous  lump  of  butter  and  turn 
into  a  deep  dish.  Eat  with  sugar  and  cream. — Mrs.  Castle  Hop- 
kins, Winnetka,  111. 

INDIAN  MEAL  GRUEL.— Take  1  qt.  of  boiling  water,  ^ 
teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  corn  meal,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  4 
tablespoons  cold  water.  Place  the  meal  and  flour  in  the  cold 
water,  rub  them  smooth  and  stir  the  paste  into  the  boiling  water. 
Stir  well  and  when  the  gruel  boils,  ^et  it  back  where  it  will  sim- 
mer gently  for  2  hrs.  Add  the  salt,  cook  for  ^  hr.  longer  and 
serve  with  cream  or  milk. — Mrs.  William  Myers,  Franklin,  111. 

INDIAN  MEAL  MUSH. — Moisten  a  cup  of  corn  meal  with 
enough  water  to  make  a  paste.  Stir  this  paste  into  a  qt.  of  salted 
boiling  water  and  cook,  beat  it  hard  and  often  for  an  hr.  at  least. 
If  the  mush  becomes  too  stiff  add  from  time  to  time  more  boiling 
water.  This  is  by  far  the  cheapest  of  all  cereals  according  to  its 
per  cent  of  nourishment.— Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  ^ 
Chicago,  111, 

VARIATION  I. — Add  1  teaspoon  salt  to  a  qt.  of  water  and 
when  boiling,  sprinkle  in  slowly  a  pt.  of  corn  meal,  taking  it  in 


10  CEREALS 

the  hand  allowing  it  to  run  slowly  through  the  fingers,  while 
you  stir  with  the  other  hand.  Boil  rapidly  for  10  minutes,  then 
push  the  kettle  over  a  slow  fire  to  cook  for  2  hrs.  Serve  warm 
with  milk. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Westinghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

MEAL  AND  FLOUR  PORRIDGE.— Mix  together  2  table- 
spoons of  Indian  meal  and  the  same  quantity  of  flour,  wet  them 
with  cold  water  and  stir  into  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler  for  half  an  hr.,  stirring  often.  Add  salt,  and  beat  in 
slowly  a  pt.  of  scalding  milk,  cook,  stirring  constantly  for  15 
minutes  longer.  Serve  with  cream. — Mrs.  Ella  Fairchild,  Pala- 
tine, 111. 

MILK  PORRIDGE— Heat  a  pt.  of  milk  to  the  bojling  point. 
Into  a  pt.  of  cold  milk  stir  4  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  when  this  is 
smooth  add  to  the  hot  milk.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  an  hr.; 
add  salt  to  taste  and  serve  with  cream. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Boil  24  raisins,  chopped,  in  a  little  water 
20  minutes.  Let  the  water  boil  away,  and  add  2  cups  milk.  When 
boiling,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed  to  a  thin  paste  with  a 
little  cold  milk.  Boil  8  to  10  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and 
strain.  Raisins  may  be  omitted  and  sugar  added  to  suit  taste;  or 
add  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg  after  it  comes  from  the  stove. — 
Mrs.  C.  C.  Cleveland,  Bartlett,  111. 

OATMEAL. — This  recipe  will  apply  to  all  forms  of  rolled 
oats,  Friends',  Mother's,  Heckers  oatmeal  and  the  "Rolled"  or 
"Flaked*'  sold  in  bulk.  All  oatmeal  is  improved  by  soaking  over 
night.  Put  oatmeal  into  the  inner  vessel  of  your  double  boiler, 
cover  deep  in  cold  water,  put  on  a  lid  and  set  on  the  back  of  range 
at  bed  time.  In  the  morning  add  boiling  water,  salt  to  taste,  and 
draw  to  the  front,  filling  the  outer  kettle  with  hot  water.  Cook 
steadily  for  an  hr.  and  as  much  longer  as  you  can.  Many  like  it 
best  boiled  "to  a  jelly.  Never  throw  away  oatmeal  "left-overs." 
Cook  again  and  yet  again,  always  in  a  double  boiler.  Repeated 
cooking  improves  oatmeal. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Put  1  qt.  of  water  in  the  upper  part  of  a 
double  boiler,  directly  over  the  fire,  bring  to  boiling  point;  add  1 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  11 

level  teaspoon  of  salt  and  sprinkle  in  carefully  6  tablespoons  of 
Scotch,  Irish  or  Steel  cut  oats.  Do  not  stir,  bring-  it  again  to  the 
boiling  point  and  put  it  at  once  into  the  under  boiler,  which  has 
been  partly  filled  with  boiling  water;  cover  and  cook  continuously 
for  6  hrs.  If  this  is  to  be  served  for  breakfast  and  there  is  a 
hard  coal  fire  in  the  kitchen  make  it  the  last  thing  at  night  and 
place  it  where  it  will  cook  or  keep  very  hot  until  morning.  Where 
gas,  wood  or  soft  coal  are  used,  cook  it  partly  the  day  before.  Put 
it  over  the  fire  while  dinner  and  supper  are  being  prepared,  then 
lift  the  inner  boiler  and  stand  in  a  cool  place.  Next  morningf  sink 
it  into  the  under  boiler,  which  has  been  partly  filled  with  boiling 
water,  and  heat  without  stirring. — Mrs.  D.  O.  Dooley,  Bensen,  111. 

OATMEAL  BOUCHIE'S  (Left  Over).— Pour  left-over  por- 
ridge in  small  custard  cups  and  stand  aside  to  cool,  when  ready 
to  serve  turn  them  out,  scoop  out  the  center,  fill  with  berries  or 
sliced  peaches.  Dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  with  cream, 
milk  or  soft  custard.  Canned  fruits  may  be  substituted  for  the 
fresh. — Mrs.  Ernest  D.  Dean,  Glenview,  111. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL.— Put  2  tablespoons  of  steel  cut  oats  or 
groats,  into  1  pt.  of  boiling  water;  boil  rapidly  for  ^  of  an  hr. 
Strain  into  a  boAvl,  add  2  tablespoons  cream  and  serve  warm.  If 
oatmeal  is  used,  take  1  tablespoon  to  a  qt.  of  water  and  cook  1^ 
hrs.,  and  add  4  tablespoons  cream;  a  grating  of  nutmeg  may  be 
used  if  desired. — Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Add  4  tablespoons  of  oatmeal,  and  1  salf- 
spoon  of  salt  to  1  pt.  of  water  and  boil  directly  over  the  fire 
for  30  minutes.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  reheat  and  pour, 
while  hot,  into  1  tgg  well  beaten.  Whipped  cream  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  the  egg.— Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Take  oatmeal  mush  left  over  or  prepared 
for  the  purpose  which  is  thoroughly  done  and  kept  in  a  tightly 
covered  bowl.  When  gruel  is  needed,  place  some  of  the  mush  in 
a  frying  pan,  add  milk  sufficient  to  thin  it  to  the  desired  consist- 
ency and  boil  slowly  for  5  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  salt 
and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  Buttercup,  Bensen,  111. 

BAKED  APPLE  WITH  OATMEAL  (Left  Over).— Core  ap- 
ples, fill  the  spitce  from  which  the  core  was  taken  with  the  oatmeal 


12  CEREALS 

porridge  left  over  from  breakfast.  Stand  the  apples  in  a  baking 
dish,  sprinkle  them  with  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar;  add  to  the  pan 
a  half  cup  of  water,  and  bake  until  the  apples  are  tender.  Serve 
with  cream,  using  a  little  more  oatmeal  as  a  garnish.  These  are 
exceedingly  nice  for  breakfast,  or  serve  as  a  lunch  to  school  chil- 
dren who  come  home  after  the  family  lunch  is  over.  Baked  sour, 
apples,  apple  sauce  and  apple  jelly  are  delicious,  eaten  with  the 
oatmeal.  They  should  be  served  with  the  mush  and  the  cream 
and  sugar,  poured  over  them  whole.  They  give  the  acid  flavor 
craved  by  so  many  in  the  morning. — Mrs.  Joseph  Dunlap,  Bart- 
lett,  111. 

OATMEAL  MUSH  WITH  APPLES.--Core  apples,  leavmg 
large  cavities,  pare  and  cook  until  soft  in  syrup  made  by  boiling 
sugar  and  water  together,  allowing  1  cup  of  sugar  to  1^  cups 
water.  Fill  cavities  with  oatmeal  mush;  serve  with  sugar  and 
cream.  Berries,  sliced  bananas  or  sliced  peaches  are  acceptable, 
served  with  any  breakfast  cereal. — Mrs.  Alex.  Drexel,  Park  Ridge, 
111. 

OATMEAL  FRUIT  MERINGUE  (Left  Over).— Left-over 
oatmeal  may  be  turned  into  a  round  mould  and  placed  at  once  to 
cool.  When  cold  turn  it  out  and  cut  slice.s  half  an  inch  thick;  put 
one  slice  in  a  round  dish,  put  a  layer  of  berries  or  sliced  peaches 
on  it,  and  on  top  of  this  another  slice  of  oatmeal.  Beat  the  whites 
of'  4  eggs  until  light,  add  4  tablespoons  powered  sugar  and  beat 
until  fine  and  glossy.  Spread  this  meringue  over  the  top  of  the 
fruit.  Dust  thickly  with  powdered  sugar  and  stand  in  the  oven 
until  a  golden  brown.  Serve  with  cream  as  a  breakfast,  luncheon 
or  supper  disli. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Sanborn,  Bartlett,  111. 

PANADA. — Sprinkle  salt  between  soda  or  graham  crackers, 
or  hard  pilot  biscuit,  a  teaspoon  to  2  crackers.  Place  the  crackers 
in  a  bowl  and  pour  on  just  enough  boiling  water  to  soak  them  well. 
Set  the  bowl  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  remain  20  or 
30  minutes,  until  crackers  are  quite  clear,  but  not  at  all  broken; 
then  lift  them  out,  carefully,  without  breaking,  and  lay  them  on  a 
hot  saucer.  Serve  very  hot  with  sugar  and  cream.  Suitable  for 
young  children  and  invalids. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Clancy,  Kcnilworth,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  13 

VARIATION  I. — ^Boil  1  tablespoon  of  cracker  crumbs  5  min- 
utes in  1  cup  boiling  water,  slightly  sweetened,  salted  and  flavored 
with  lemon. — Mrs.  William  Barnes,  Bartlett,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Boil  1  cup  of  stoned  raisins,  1  hr.  in  1  qt. 
of  water.  Skim  out  the  raisins  and  add  1  cup  bread  crumbs  or  2 
slices  of  toasted  bread  to  the  boiling  water;  boil  15  minutes,  stir- 
ring well.  Beat  2  eggs,  add  1  tablespoon  sugar,  and  pour  the  pan- 
ada over  them,  stirring  all  the  time. — Mrs,  Ethan  Earle,  Mayfair, 
111. 

ENGLISH  PEA  PORRIDGE.— 1  pt.  split  peas,  3  qts.  water, 
6  leeks  or  2  good  sized  onions,  1  stalk  of  celery  or  teaspoon  celery 
seed,  2  ounces  bread,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  pt.  mashed  potatoes, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  pepper.  Wash  and  soak  the  peas  over 
night.  Cut  the  onions  or  leeks  in  slices;  cut  the  celery  into  pieces; 
put  them  with  the  butter  into  a  frying  pan;  stir  constantly  until 
a  golden  brown;  throw  them  into  a  soup  kettle,  and  add  all  ingre- 
dients, except  the  potatoes.  The  peas  of  course  must  be  drained. 
Cook  slowly  1  hr.  If  peas  are  not  perfectly  tender  at  the  end  of 
time,  simmer  gently  a  little  longer.  Press  the  w"hole  through  a 
sieve;  return  to  the  kettle,  add  the  potatoes  and  when  boiling 
season,  strain  and  serve.  This  porridge  should  be  quite  thick, 
almost  as  thick  as  breakfast  oatmeal.  If  it  has  the  slightest  incli- 
nation to  settle,  it  is  too  thin;  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  of 
flour  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste,  bring  the  porridge  to  boiling 
point  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Clarkson,  Willimette,  111. 

RICE. — Wash  a  cup  of  rice  in  2  waters,  then  drop  it  slowly 
into  2  qts.  of  salted  boiling  water.  The  water  should  be  at  a  gal- 
loping boil.  Do  not  stir  the  rice  once  during  the  20  minutes  in 
which  it  must  cook  steadily.  At  the  end  of  that  time  test  a  grain 
to  see  if  it  is  tender,  turn  the  rice  into  a  colander;  shake  this  hard, 
that  the  air  may  reach  all  the  kernels  and  set  in  the  oven  5  min- 
utes before  dishing.  Each  grain  should  stand  separate  from  the 
rest.  This  is  the  South  Carolinian  way  of  cooking  rice,  and  the 
only  right  way. — Mrs.  Jane  Evers,  Winnetka,  111. 

RICE  JELLY. — Mix  enough  water  with  a  tablespoon  of  rice 
flour  to  make  a  thin  paste,  and  then  add  1  coffee  cup  of  boiling 
water.     Sweeten  to  taste,  and  boil  until  the  rice  is  transparent.     If 


14  CEREALS 

it  is  made  for  a  child  or  invalid  suffering  from  intestinal  trouble, 
I  boil  with  it  a  stick  of  cinnamon;  if  for  a  fever  patient  add,  when 
xlone,  several  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Wet  a  mould  with  cold  water, 
pour  in  the  jelly  and  when  cold  serve  with  milk  and  sugar. — Mrs. 
Waldon  Emmery,  Glencoe,  111. 

RYE  GRUEL.— To  1  pt.  of  milk  and  1  qt.  of  hot  water,  add  1 
talblespoon  of  rye  meal,  1  tablespoon  of  rice  flour  and  1  tablespoon 
cornstarch.  Boil  together  8  or  10  minutes,  add  salt,  strain  and 
flavor  with  nutmeg. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

RYE  MUSH. — This  is  a  tasty  cereal.  Add  1  level  teaspoon 
of  salt  to  1  qt.  of  water,  bring  to  boiling  point,  sprinkle  in 
carefully  ^  pt.  rye  meal,  stirring  constantly.  Cover  the  sauce- 
pan, pushing  it  back  on  the  stove,  and  cook  slowly  1  hr.  This  should 
be  the  consistency  of  oatmeal  breakfast  porridge.  If  rye  flour  is 
substituted  for  rye  meal,  the  mixture  will  be  pasty.  Rye  Mush 
is  sometimes  served  with  molasses. — Mrs.  Chas.  Eggleston,  Wheel- 
ing, 111. 

SAGO  GRUEL. — Stand  1  ounce  of  sago  in  a  pt.  of  water  on 
the  back  of  the  stove  for  2  hrs.  to  soften.  Boil  for  ^  hr.,  stirring 
often.  Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  add  1  wineglass  of  sherry 
wine  and  flavor  with  ginger,  lemon  juice  or  nutmeg  to  taste. — Mrs. 
Ella  Fairchild,  Palatine,  111. 

BALTIMORE  SAMP.— This  samp  is  made  of  white  corn.  It 
is  very  much  coarser  than  grits  or  fine  hominy.  Cover  the  samp 
with  boiling  water,  let  boil  5  or  6  minutes,  then  drain  and  rinse. 
Cover  again  with  boiling  water,  and  let  cook  on  the  back  uf  the 
range  all  day,  adding  boiling  water  as  needed,  and  shaking  the 
dish  occasionally  to  prevent  scorching.  When  nearly  cocked,  add 
a  taiblespoon  of  salt  for  each  qt.  of  samp. — Mrs.  Chas.  Ellis,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

WHEATLET  BREAKFAST  PORRIDGE.  —  Wheatlet. 
Wheatena,  Farmose,  Yuca,  Germia,  Wheat  Germ,  Vitos,  and  Ral- 
ston breakfast  food,  'may  all  be  cooked  as  follows:  Wheatlet  break- 
fast porridge. — Yz  pt.  of  wheatlet,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Bring  1  qt.  of 
water  to  a  rapid  boil  directly  over  the  fire;  add  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  sprinkle  in  f4  pt.  of  cereal,  stirring  all  the  while;  stir  and  boil 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  15 

for  about  5  minutes;  then  stand  it  in  a  boiler  of  boiling  water  and 
cook  slowly  for  30  to  40  minutes.  Serve  with  unskimmed  milk. 
Left  over  Wheatlet  may  be  used  the  same  as  oatmeal  or  farina. — 
Mrs.  C.  E.  Rawlins,  Glen  View,  111. 

CRACKED  OR  ROLLED  WHEAT.— In  2  qts.  of  boiling 
water,  stir  1  pt.  of  cracked  wheat,  and  ^  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cook 
in  a  farina  boiler  or  double  kettle  for  3  hrs.  without  stirring.  When 
done,  mold  in  dishes.  Eat  hot  or  cold  with  fruit  sauce,  or  cream 
and  sugar.  Excellent  in  constipation  or  biliousness. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

WHOLE  WHEAT.— Put  quantity  desired  in  a  deep  vessel 
and  cover  with  warm  water.  Keep  in  a  warm  place,  allow  to  stand 
24  hours  and  longer,  if  desired  very  soft.  Drain  thoroughly.  It 
will  be  found  sufficiently  softened  to  be  easily  masticated  and 
eaten  with  nuts.  This  makes  pro'bably  the  most  nutritious  dish 
of  all  the  cereal  family.  A  very  little  salt  may  be  added. — E.  G. 
Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

SHREDDED  WHEAT  BISCUIT.— Warm  the  biscuit  in  the 
oven  to  restore  crispness,  pour  hot  milk  or  water  over  it  until  the 
shreds  arc  swollen,  then  pour  a  little  cream  over  the  top  of  the 
biscuit  or  serve  surrounded  by  fruit  or  with  cold  milk  or  cream. 
After  the  biscuits  have  ben  crisped  an  oblong  cavity  may 
be  made  in  the  top  and  filled  with  any  kind  of  fresh  or  canned 
fruit.  If  canned  fruit  is  used  the  juice  may  be  heated  to  pour  over 
biscuit,  but  use  hot  or  cold  milk  with  fresh  fruit. — Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

WHOLESOME  TOAST.— Put  all  bread  crumbs,  broken  bits 
of  bread,  dry  crusts,  etc.,  in  a  pan  in  a  slow  oven  and  dry  thor- 
oughly until  a  golden  brown.  Put  in  a  pan  and  crush  fine  with  a 
wooden  potato  masher  or  roll  with  a  rolling  pin.  Serve  with 
cream  and  sugar  or  fruit  juice,  or  cover  with  hot  milk  in  which 
a  little  salt  has  been  sprinkled.  It  will  keep  indefinitely  if  kept  in 
a  dry  place  and  may  be  re-heated  before  each  meal  or  served  cold. 
Healthful  for  children  or  invalids. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago,  111. 

LEFT-OVER  CEREAL  WITH  FRUIT.— Pour  left-over  ce- 
real of  any  kind  while  warm  into  after-dinner  coffee  cups  freshly 


16  CEREALS 

rinsed  in  cold  water.  Fifteen  minutes  before  breakfast  turn  from 
the  cups  on  to  a  buttered  pan,  and  heat  in  the  oven.  Serve  sur- 
rounded with  sliced  bananas,  oranges,  peaches  or  any  preferred 
fresh  or  canned  fruit,  jam  or  jelly,  cover  with  plain  or  whipped 
cream  and  sweeten  to  taste. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 


EGGS 


ANCHOVY  EGGS.— Bone  anchovies,  warm  them  in  a  little 
oil  and  cut  each  in  two  lengthwise.  Cut  hard  boiled  eggs  length- 
wise and  cross  two  pieces  of  anchovy  over  each  half  egg;  set  the 
halves  on  hot  buttered  toast,  pour  hot,  piquante  brown  sauce  over 
them  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  C.  E.    Westinghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

ATLANTIC  CITY  EGGS.— Soak  1  pt.  of  stale  bread  crumbs 
in  1  pt.  of  sweet  milk;  beat  8  eggs  very  light  and  mix  with  the 
bread  crumlbs.  Put  2  taljlespoons  of  butter  and  the  egg  mixture 
in  a  hot  pan;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  stirring  often.  Cook 
as  quickly  as  possible  without  burning.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter 
and  garnish  with  parsley. — ^^Mrs.  J.  Jeffiries,  Winnetka,  III. 

BAKED  EGGS.— Break  8  eggs  into  a  wTIl  buttered  dish,  tak- 
ing care  that  each  is  whole  and  does  not  encroach  upon  the  others 
enough  to  mix  or  disturb  the  yolks;  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  bits  of  'butter,  3  tablespoons  of  cream  and  bake  until  whites 
«rc  set  or  until  done  to  taste. — Mrs.  Ella  Fairchild,  Palatine,  111. 

VARIATION    I.— Butter   well    a    pie   tin,    cover    with    bread 
crumbs  or  rolled  crackers.     Pour  over  a  cup  sweet  milk  or  cream, 
break  eggs  over  this  and  season  on  top  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt.     Bake   8   minutes    in    a    quick    oven. — ^Mrs.    C.    C.    Cleveland,. 
Bartlett,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Boil  1  dozen  eggs  Yi  hr.;  shell  and  cut  in 
halves;  lay  whites  in  baking  dish;  mash  yolks  fine  while  warm, 
add  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  ibutter,  1  teaspoon  of  cracker  crumbs, 
\y^  cup«  milk,  salt  to  taste.  Pour  over  whites  and  bake  15  min- 
utes.— Mrs.  D.  O.  Dooley,  Bensen,  111. 

VARIATION  III.— Place  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  small  fry- 
ing pan  and  when  melted  add  1  teaspoon  flour;  add  teaspoon 
chopped  parsley  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  stir  until  smooth 
and  frothy,  cook  1  minute,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  turn  the  sauce 
into  a  deep  plate  or  pudding  dish.     Break  the  eggs  carefully  and 

17 


18  EGGS 

drop  them  into  the  sauce,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  yolks. 
Sprinkle  the  parsley  over  the  eggs  and  sauce,  place  the  dish  in  a 
moderate  oven  and  bake  until  whites  are  set.  Serve  in  same 
dish.  A  taiblespoon  of  grated  cheese  may  be  sprinkled  over  the 
eggs  instead  of  the  parsley  if  preferred. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  IV. — Moisten  1  cup  cracker  crumbs  with  ^  cup 
of  melted  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Spread  ]^  the 
crumbs  on  a  Ijuttered  platter  or  bake  dish,  break  3  or  4  eggs  over 
them  and  sprinkle  with  the  remaining  crumbs  to  a  delicate  brown. — 
Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

EGGS  BAKED  WITH  ASPARAGUS.— Cut  2  dozen  stalks 
of  asparagus  into  inch  pieces,  removing  all  the  hard  parts;  boil 
until  tender  in  salted  water,  drain  and  put  into  a  baking  dish. 
Pour  over  1  cup  of  drawn  butter  sauce,  break  6  eggs  on  top,  put 
a  piece  of  butter  on  each  one,  and  a  light  sprinkle  of  salt  and  pep- 
per. Let  cook  in  a  quick  oven  until  the  eggs  are  firm;  serve  at 
once. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

BAKED  EGGS  AND  BACON.— 'Cut  very  thin  slices  of  bacon, 
allowing  2  slices  for  each  egg  to  be  used.  Fry  the  meat  very 
crisp  and  brown,  and  arrange  the  slices  in  groups  of  two  on  a  large 
flat  plate.  Break  1  egg  over  each  group,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  and 
serve. — Mrs.  Ernest  D.  Dean,  Glen  View,  111. 

BAKED  EGGS  IN  MACARONI.— Cook  tender,  %  pack- 
age of  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water.  Make  2  cups  of  thin 
white  sauce.  Place  layer  of  macaroni  in  a  small  covered  baking 
dish,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  then  break  eggs  and  arrange 
on  macaroni;  cover  with  the  remainder  of  the  macaroni.  Pour 
white  sauce  over  all  and  sprinkle  top  with  grated  cheese  and  bread 
crumbs.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes.  Poach  as  many 
eggs  as  there  are  persons  to  be  served.  Serve  one  egg  and  a  por- 
tion of  macaroni  to  each  person. — Mabel  A.  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

EGGS  BAKED  IN  TOMATO.— Cut  a  slice  from  stem  end  of 
small  tomatoes,  scoop  out  pulp,  drop  in  egg,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake. — Mabel  Sturtc- 
rznt,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  19 

BAKED  EGGS  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE.— Make  a  thick 
tomato  sauce  and  place  a  generous  spoonful  of  the  sauce  in  each 
individual  baking  dish  and  upon  it  lay  a  neatly  trimmed  poached 
tgg.  Cover  rather  thickly  with  grated  cheese,  and  put  in  the  oven 
for  2  or  3  minutes  to  brown  the  cheese.  The  oven  should  be  very 
hot  in  order  to  melt  the  cheese  and  leave  the  egg  soft  and  creamy. 
— Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  111. 

EGGS  IN  BATTER.— Poach  4  eggs  in  muffin  rings  and  put 
into  cold  water.  Mix  1  tablespoon  of  chutney  with  a  little  vine- 
gar and  finely  chopped  sweet  herbs;  put  the  eggs  into  this  mixture 
for  ^  hr.,  drain  and  dip  each  egg  in  thick  batter  and  fry  to  a  rich 
brown  in  hoiling  lard.  Serve  with  spinach  or  parsley. — Mrs.  Ella 
Fairchild,  Palatine,  111. 

EGGS  BEAUREGARD.— 5^  pt.  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  salt- 
spoon  pepper,  as  many  slices  of  toast  as  eggs.  Remove  shells 
from  the  required  number  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  separate  the  whites 
and  the  yolks;  put  the  yolks  through  a  sieve  and  the  whites 
through  a  vegetable  press,  or  chop  them  very  fine.  Rub  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  and  2  tablespoons  of  flour  together,  add  J^  pt. 
milk  and  stir  until  boiling.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Arrange  as  many  slices  of  toast  as  there  arc 
eggs  on  a  heated  platter.  If  desired,  the  bread  may  be  cut  to 
liken  the  petals  of  a  daisy,  having  the  petals  about  three  inches  in 
length.  Spread  the  sauce  on  the  buttered  toast  and  press  the 
yolks,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  in  the  center,  to  form  the 
heart  of  the  daisy,  or  the  powdered  yolks  may  be  sprinkled  over 
the  toast. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,   Chicago,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  BENEDICT.— Split  and  toast  muffins.  Fry  cir- 
cular pieces  of  cold  boiled  ham,  place  these  over  the  halves  of 
muffins,  arrange  on  each  a  poached  egg  and  pour  around  a  hol- 
landaise  or  butter  sauce. — Mrs.  C.  Buttercup,  Bensen,  111. 

BOILED  EGGS. — Have  enough  fast  boiling  water  in  a  sauce- 
pan to  cover  the  number  of  eggs  wanted  and  to  allow  the  water  to 
continue  boiling  as  the  eggs  are  dropped  in.  Lay  the  eggs  you 
wish  to  boil  in  warm  water,  for  the  dou'ble  purpose  of  warming 
and  washing  them.  Drop  the  eggs  carefully  into  the  boiling  water 
and  time  them  as  desired.     Cook  3  minutes  for  a  very  thin  boiled 


20  EGGS 

egg,  4  minutes  for  a  set  white  and  soft  yolk,  5,  6  or  7  minutes  for 
an  egg  to  cook  through  in  same  ratio  of  solidity;  10  minutes  for  a 
crumibly  hard  egg. — Mrs.  Joseph  Dunlop,  Barrett,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Place  the  eggs  in  cold  water.  When  they 
have  come  to  a  good  boil  which  will  require  aibout  10  minutes,  they 
are  ready  to  serve.  If  a  thin  boiled  egg  is  desired,  let  cook  2  min- 
utes for  set  white  and  soft  yolk,  4  minutes  to  cut  through  the  same 
ratio  and  8  minutes  for  a  hard  boiled  egg. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105 
S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Heat  a  basin  with  boiling  water  till  it  is 
thoroughly  hot;  turn  off  the  water  and  put  in  the  eggs,  moving 
them  round  so  that  every  part  shall  receive  the  heat.  Have  ready 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  iK)ur  this  over  the  eggs,  and  cover  the 
basin  to  prevent  any  steam  from  escaping.  In  12  minutes  they 
will  be  perfectly  cooked. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

HARD-BOILED  EGGS  AND  GIBLET  SAUCE.— Eggs 
boiled  hard  may  be  cut  in  two  lengthwise.  Place  them  on  a  platter 
and  pour  a  sauce  made  of  chicken  giblets  or  else  some  left-over 
turkey  gravy. — 'Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  BONNE  CUISINE.— Cut  4  hard  boiled  eggs  in 
half,  scoop  out  yolks,  and  rub  to  a  paste  with  a  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter and  1  tablespoon  of  anchovy  paste,  a  pinch  of  curry  powder 
and  1  teaspoon  of  chutney.  Fill  whites  with  the  mixture,  fry 
rounds  of  bread  a  golden  brown,  and  when  cold  spread  with  the 
remainder  of  the  paste.  Place  half  an  egg  on  each  round,  and,  with 
a  pastry  tube,  garnish  with  cooked  spinach  rubbed  through  a 
sieve  with  a  little  butter. — Mrs.  Alex.  Drcxel,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

MOCK  BRAINS.— Beat  egg  yolks  very  light,  add  1  teaspoon 
orf  water  or  milk  to  each  2  yolks,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
scramble  in  butter. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dear^born  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

BREADED  EGGS. — Boil  required  number  hard  and  cut  in 
round,  thick  slices,  pepper  and  salt  and  dip  each  in  beaten  raw  egg, 
then  in  fine  bread  crumbs  or  powdered  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
butter,  hissing  hot;  drain  oflF  grease  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  D.  E. 
Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  21 

ROYAL  CREAMED  EGGS.— Boil  6  eggs  and  cut  in  slices. 
Make  a  sauce  by  creaming  1  level  tablespoon  of  butter  with  2j4 
tablespoons  of  flour  and  adding  1  pt,  of  cream  or  cream  and  milk; 
boil  3  minutes.  In  a  granite  basin  put  a  layer  of  cream,  then  a 
layer  of  sliced  iboiled  eggs;  another  layer  of  cream  and  repeat. 
Sprinkle  rolled  cracker  over  the  top,  dot  with  pieces  of  butter  and 
brown  in  the  oven, — Mrs.  C.  J.  JeflFries,  Winnetka,  111. 

EGGS  BROUILLE. — Cut  2  mushrooms  into  dice,  and  fry  them 
for  1  iminute  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Beat  together  6  eggs,  salt, 
pepper  and  Y^  cup  milk  or  cream,  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan, 
add  3  tablespoons  of  butter  and  mushrooms  to  these  ingredients. 
Stir  over  a  moderate  heat  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  beat  rapidly  until  the  egg  becomes  quite 
thick  and  creamy.  Have  slices  of  toast  on  a  hot  dish.  Heap  the 
mixture  on  these  and  garnish  with  points  of  toast.  Serve  at  once. 
Soup  stock  may  be  substituted  for  the  milk.  A  grating  of  nutmeg 
may  be  added  if  liked. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

EGGS  IN  BROWN  BUTTER.— Cook  6  eggs  in  a  tablespoon 
of  huttcr  until  the  whites  are  set,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
place  on  a  platter.  Brown  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  pan,  add'  I 
teaspoon  of  vinegar  and  ^  cup  water  and  pour  over  the  eggs. — Mrs. 
Jennie  Case,  Franklin,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  BUCKINGHAM.— Have  as  many  slices  of  toast 
as  there  are  persons  to  be  served.  Either  dip  the  crusts  of  the 
toast  in  hot  water  or  pour  hot  salted  milk  over  them.  Make  a 
cream  sauce  and  cover  toast  and  scramble  as  many  eggs  as  there 
are  persons  to  be  served,  pour  over  cream  sauce  and  sprinkle 
grated  cheese  over  the  top  to  suit  taste.  Set  in  oven  just  long 
enough  to  melt  cheese.  Serve  at  once. — ^^Mrs.  H.  B.  Sanborne, 
Bartlett,  111. 

EGG  BUTTER.— To  3  well-beaten  eggs  add  1  pt.  of  molasses. 
Boil  until  it  thickens. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  CARACAS.— Pick  over  2  ounces  of  smoked,  dried 
beef  and  chop  finely,  add  1  cup  tomatoes,  Yz  cup  of  grated  cheese, 
a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  cinnamon  and  cayenne,  to  taste.  Melt 
2  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  mixture,  and  when  heated  add  3  eggs 


22  EGGS 

well  beaten.  Cook  until  eggs  are  of  creamy  consistency,  stirring 
and  scraping  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan. — Mrs.  Andrew  Ander- 
son, Kenilworth,  111. 

EGGS  IN  CASES.— Warm  slightly  2  tablespoons  butter,  and 
mix  with  J^  handful  bread  crumbs;  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley,  salt 
and  cayenne.  Butter  the  bottoms  of  6  souffle  cases,  put  a  little 
of  the  mixture  in  each  and  break  a  fresh  tgg  on  top,  cover  with 
bread  crumbs  and  put  in  the  oven  to  set  or  set  on  the  broiler  to 
brown  the  crumbs  and  set  the  eggs. — Mrs.  John  Barber,  Mayfair, 
111. 

CELERY  EGGS.— Chop  6  cold  hard-boiled  eggs  and  1  bunch 
of  celery,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  3  rolled  crackers  and 
1  cup  of  milk.  Fry  in  hot  butter. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka, 
III. 

EGGS  AND  CHEESE.— Cover  well  with  grated  cheese  a  but- 
tered flat  dish  and  let  the  cheese  soften  in  the  oven.  Break  3  or  4 
eggs  over  it  and  return  to  the  oven  till  the  eggs  are  set;  put  on 
another  grating  of  cheese  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs;  brown 
and  serve  very  hot. — Mrs.  J.  Donohoe,  Winnetka,  111. 

CODDLED  EGGS.— Scald  1  cup  milk,  add  1  egg  slightly  beat- 
en. Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly,  then  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  serve  on  hot  toast. — ^^Mrs.  J.  C.  Appleton,  Bart- 
lett,  111. 

EGGS— COLORADO  STYLE.— Soak  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs 
in  1  cup  of  milk.  Beat  5  eggs  very  light  and  stir  with  the  soaked 
crumbs,  beating  5  minutes.  Pour  the  mixture  in  1  tablespoon  of 
very  hot  butter,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  quickly  stir  with 
a  fork  for  3  minutes.  Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

COLUMBUS  EGGS.— Cut  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves  cross- 
wise, cut  a  slice  oif  of  each  end  to  make  them  stand  up.  Remove 
the  yolks  and  chop  and  mix  with  minced  veal,  chicken  or  other 
delicate  meat.  Add  a  little  cream  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Put  this  mixture  into  the  whites,  press  it 
smooth  and  put  the  2  halves  together,  like  whole  eggs. — Mrs. 
James  Ellis,  Palatine,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  23 

VARIATION  I. — Take  1  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs  and  cut  each 
•  in  two  around  the  center,  cutting  off  also  a  little  piece  from  one 
end  so  they  can  stand  on  end  as  did  the  egg  Columbus  handled. 
Pulverize  the  yolks  and  mix  with  some  finely  minced  chicken, 
smoked  tongue  or  lean  ham;  moistening  with  a  little  fresh  butter 
or  vinegar,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper  and  mustard.  Put  this  filling 
in  the  empty  whites,  press  the  2  parts  together  and  stand  on  a 
platter,  like  a  whole  egg.  Pour  a  little  vinegar  over  the  remaining 
filling  and'  pour  over  the  eggs. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  COMMODORE.— Place  hollowed  circles  of 
bread  sauteed  in  butter  in  a  deep  dish  and  place  a  poached  egg  or 
scrambled  eggs  in  the  center  of  each  one,  first  filling  with  a  soup 
puree  and  pour  over  a  rich  Bechamel  sauce,  to  which  is  added  a  few 
drops  vinegar.  Garnish  with  chopped  truffles. — ^Mrs.  C.  E.  West- 
inghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

EGG  COQUELICOT.— 1  can  pimentoes,  2  tablespoons  butter, 
ly2  pts.  milk,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  as  many  eggs, 
and  slices  of  toast  as  there  are  persons  to  serve.  Trim  the  tops 
from  1  can  of  pimentoes  to  make  them  even.  Put  these  inside  of 
custard  or  timbale  cups.  Break  in  each  1  egg,  dust  it  lightly  with 
salt  and  pepper,  stand  the  cups  in  a  hot  baking  dish  of  boiling 
water  and  cook  in  the  oven  until  eggs  are  set.  Allow  1  round  of 
toast  for  each  cup.  While  they  are  cooking  rub  2  tablespoons  each 
of  butter  and  flour  together;  add  Ij^  pts.  milk  and  stir  until  boiling, 
then  add  the  salt  and  pepper;  pour  this  into  the  bottom  of  a  heated 
platter,  loosen  the  pimentoes  from  the  edge  of  the  cups,  put  a 
round  of  toast  over  the  cups  and  turn  out  the  contents  by  revers- 
ing. Stand  the  toast  on  which  you  liave  turned  the  egg,  in  the 
cream  sauce;  dust  if  you  like  with  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  send 
to  the  table. — ^^Mrs.  M.  Anthony,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

CREAMED  EGGS.— May  be  served  on  toast  or  in  tureen. 
Cut  3  hard-boiled  eggs  lengthwise  in  4  silces,  place  on  a  hot,  shal- 
low vegetable  dish,  set  in  oven  or  range  closet  to  keep  warm. 
Make  a  cream  sauce  of  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
and  1  cup  of  milk.  Cook  onion  in  the  butter,  add  flour,  rub 
smooth  and  brown  if  desired.  Add  milk  and  pour  over  eggs. 
Serrc  hot. — ^Mrs.  E.  D.  Adkins,  Wheeling,  111. 


24  EGGS 

VARIATION  I.— Boil  6  eggs  20  minutes.  Have  6  slices  of 
toast  on  a  hot  dish.  Put  a  layer  of  white  or  cream  sauce  on  each 
one,  and  then  part  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  cut  in  thin  strips;  rub 
part  of  the  yolks  through  a  sieve  on  the  toast.  Repeat  this  and 
finish  with  a  third  layer  of  sauce.  Place  in  the  oven  for  about  3 
minutes,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve. — Mrs,  William  Barnes, 
Bartlett,  111. 

EGGS  WITH  CREAM.— Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  stir  in 
1  cup  of  thin  cream  and  when  hot  slip  in  the  eggs  very  carefully. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  the  whites  are  almost 
done,  sprinkle  with  cheese  and  finish  cooking  and  serve,  on  slices 
of  toast. — Mrs.  M.  A.  Abbott,  Palatine,  111. 

EGGS  PREPARED  IN  CREAM.— Into  custard  cups  or  rame- 
kin put  1  tablespoon  of  cream  or  milk  top,  break  1  or  2  eggs  into 
each,  dust  with  a  little  salt;  set  the  cup  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water 
on  stove  and  boil  until  the  egg  is  set. — ^Mrs.  Ella  Fairchild,  Pala- 
tine, lU. 

EGG  CROQUETTES.— Chop  6  hard-boiled  eggs  fine,  rub  1 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  tablespoons  of  flour  together  and  add  5-^ 
pt.  of  milk;  stir  over  the  fire  until  thick  and  smooth;  add  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Chop  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  fine,  or  put 
them  through  a  vegetable  press,  add  them  to  the  mixture;  turn  out 
to  cool.  When  cold,  take  2  tablespoons  of  this  mixture  in  the 
hand,  make  it  into  a  sort  of  well;  put  the  yolk  in  the  center,  and 
fold  the  white  mixture  all  over.  Dip  in  egg  and  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  making  a  perfect  ball.  Fry  in  hot  fat  and  serve  with 
cream  sauce,  with  chopped  parsley. — -Mrs.  C.  C.  Cleveland,  Bart- 
lett, 111. 

EGGS  CREOLE.— Boil  1  cup  of  rice.  Put  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  onion  and  1  green  pepper  chopped;  shake 
over  fire  until  they  are  soft,  not  brown.  Cut  4  peeled  tomatoes 
into  halves  and  press  out  the  seeds;  then  cut  them  in  pieces;  add  to 
the  peppers  and  onion,  cook  15  minutes  and  salt  to  taste.  Remove 
the  shells  from  6  ihard  boiled  eggs  and  put  into  a  serving  dish, 
pour  over  the  sauce,  'heap  the  rice  at  the  ends  or  at  the  sides,  and 
send  to  the  table. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  25 

CUBAN  EGGS.— Use  8  eggs  for  6  people.  Cook  4  tablespoons 
of  sausage  meat  and  1  onion  together  over  a  hot  fire  for  5  minutes; 
beat  the  eggs  thoroughly  and)  add  seasoning  to  taste;  put  the  pan 
on  a  cooler  part  of  the  stove  and  pour  in  the  eggs;  stir  till  the 
eggs  'become  thick  and  creamy,  then  pour  into  a  warm  dish  and 
serve  with  buttered  toast.  The  eggs  may  be  poured  over  the 
toast  if  desired. — Mrs.  John  Adkins,  Wheeling,  111. 

CURRIED  EGGS.— Make  a  sauce  of  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
in  which  an  onion  has  been  simmered  until  done,  but  not  brown, 
stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  flour  until  it  is  smooth,  add  a  teaspoon  of 
curry  powder,  rub  all  to  a  smooth  paste.  Pour  slowly  into  the 
saucepan,  a  cup  of  veal,  mutton,  chicken  or  any  other  soup  stock 
left  from  the  day  before.  Slice  the  eggs  in  a  d'eep  vegetable  dish 
and  pour  this  sauce  over  them. — Mrs.  Almond  Case,  Palatine,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — ^For  6  hard-boiled  eggs  take  1  dessertspoon 
of  butter,  and  mix  into  it  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  J^  tablespoon  of 
curry  powder,  and  a  little  salt.  Pour  into  this  a  J^  pt.  of  boiling 
milk  and  set  back  on  the  stove  to  cook;  stir  until  it  begins  to 
thicken  like  white  sauce;  pour  this  over  the  warm  eggs  and  serve 
hot. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Adams,  Franklin,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  3  onions,  cut  into  very  thin  slices;  stand  the  saucepan  over 
very  hot  water  and  cook  for  20  minutes;  add  1  teaspoon  of  curry 
powder,  ginger,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour; 
mix  and  add  Y^  pt.  of  water;  stir  until  boiling.  Cut  6  hard-boiled 
eggs  into  thin  slices;  arrange  them  over  a  dish  of  carefully  boiled 
rice  on  a  hot  platter;  pour  over  the  sauce  and  send  to  the  tabic. — 
Mrs.  Julius  Casper,  Wheeling,  111. 

VARIATION  III. — Boil  hard  as  many  eggs  as  required,  re- 
move the  shell,  cut  in  halves,  take  out  the  yolks,  mix  all  the  yolks 
in  a  small  basin  with  the  curry  powder,  allowing  1  small  teaspoon 
of  curry  to  2  yolks.  Refill  the  halves  of  the  whites  with  the  mix- 
ture. Arrange  the  water-cress  nicely  in  a  glass  dish  forming  a  bed 
for  the  eggs  to  rest  in. — Mrs.  B.  Reeves,  Palatine,  111. 

EGG  DAFFODILS.— Chop  the  whites  of  6  hard  boiled  eggs 
fine,  then  run  through  a  vegetable  press.  Have  ready  a  cup  of 
drawn  butter   sauce,   seasoned   with   pepper,   salt   and   onion   juice. 


26  EGGS 

Mix  the  whites  with  this,  and  keep  hot  over  boiling  water.  Have 
ready  rounds  of  toast  buttered  and  slightly  moistened  with  gravy, 
chicken,  veal  or  turkey.  Arrange  on  a  hot  platter  and  cover  each 
round  with  the  white  mixture,  flattening  it  on  top.  Run  the  yolks 
through  the  press,  reducing  them  to  a  yellow  powder;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  put  a  spoonful  on  each  white  round, — Mrs. 
Mary  Carpenter,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

DAINTY  EGGS.— Beat  white  of  1  egg,  put  on  a  thin  slice  of 
toasted  bread,  add  the  beaten  yolk  to  white,  cover  with  tablespoon 
of  cream.  Cook  3  or  4  minutes  in  a  hot  oven;  suitable  for  an  in- 
valid.— 'Mrs.  Julius  Casper,  Wheeling,  111. 

DELICATE  EGGS.— Beat  eggs  light,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  put  in  buttered  cups,  place  in  steamer  long  enough  to  be- 
come thoroughly  heated.  Serve  at  once.  Suited  for  an  invalid. — 
Mrs.  J.  S.  Putnam,  Wheeling,  111. 

DEVILED  EGGS. — Have  as  many  liard-boiled  eggs  as  desired, 
remove  shells  and  halve  each  egg  lengthwise,  slipping  the  egg 
yolks  into  a  bowl,  mash  and  mix  with  salad  or  mayonnaise  dressing 
until  free  from  lumps,  make  into  balls  and  replace  in  the  whites. 
Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  nested  in  lettuce  and  cress.  Rad- 
ishes make  a  nice  garnish,  thus  giving  the  4  colors,  red,  white, 
green  and  yellow.  Grated  cheese  may  be  used  in  deviled  eggs  if 
desired. — Mrs.  Frank  Cress,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — ^Shell  and  halve  lengthwise  hard-boiled  eggs, 
take  out  the  yolks  and  rub  them  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  table- 
spoon of  mixed  olive  oil  and  minced  ham,  chicken  or  other  desired 
meat,  and  a  teaspoon  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  mix  well.  Fill  the  whites  with  the  mixture  and 
arrange  on  a  glass  dish  on  a  bed  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs. 
Chas.  Johnston,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Mix  the  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  with  pep- 
per, salt,  finely  chopped  onion  and  mustard  to  taste,  and  cream 
to  soften,  rub  smooth  to  return  to  the  whites,  laying  the  halves 
together. — Mrs.  Ralph  Charters,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

VARIATION  III. — Mash  the  yolks  with  mustard,  vifiegar, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  form  balls  and  return  to  the  whites  and 
serve  cold. — Mrs.  Edith  Fairchild,  Glen  View,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  27 

VARIATION  IV  (hot).— Mash  the  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs 
with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  cream.  Refill  hollows,  lay  together^ 
put  bits  of  butter  on,  set  in  oven  and  brown.  The  halves  which 
have  'been  filled  with  the  prepared  yolks  may  be  put  together  and 
run  through  with  a  toothpick  to  keep  them  together  and  rolled  in 
beaten  white  of  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fried  over  a  hot  blaze 
in  a  teaspoon  of  butter  and  1  of  lard  until  brown. — Mrs.  H.  A. 
Sherman,  Palatine,  111. 

DEVILED  EGGS  ON  TOAST.— Mix  the  yolks  of  5  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  a  dash  of  drj'  mustard,  1  tablespoon  olive  oil,  salt,  red 
and  black  pepper  together  in  a  bowl  with  the  back  of  a  silver  spoon 
till  smooth.  Put  }4  pt.  of  milk,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  which  has 
been  mixed  with  2  teaspoons  of  flour,  the  whites  of  5  eggs  cut  up 
fine,  and  salt,  all  into  the  chafing  dish.  Stir  steadily  till  boiling 
hot.  When  done  put  thick  slices  of  buttered  toast  in  a  dish,  then 
the, cheese,  and  last  the  hot  white  sauce,  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

DEVILED  EGGS.— Cut  6  hard-boiled  eggr^  in  halves  length- 
wise; take  out  the  yolks  and  mix  them  thoroughly  with  2  table- 
spoons of  olive  oil  or  melted  butter,  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar  and 
1  tablespoon  of  celery  salt.  Fill  in  the  yolk  cavities  with  this  mix- 
ture and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  garnished  with  a  leaf  of  parsley 
on  each  one. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  No.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

EGGS  DIVORCOM.— Poach  in  boiling  water  to  which  a  pinch 
of  salt  has  been  added,  1  egg  to  each  person,  lift  off  with  a  skimmer 
and  lay  on  puree  of  onions  and  spread  over  a  tablespoon  of  Bear- 
naise  sauce  to  each  egg.  Fry  an  equal  number  of  eggs,  folding 
whites  over  yolks  with  a  knife.  Place  on  puree  of  spinach,  spread- 
ing tomato  sauce  over  an-d  serve. — Mrs.  Castle  Hopkins,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

EGGS  A  LA  DURANGO.— Boil  6  fried  Spanish  peppers  20 
minutes.  Drain,  remove  seeds  and  skin  and  chop  fine.  Fry  in  a 
spoonful  of  lard  with  %  onion,  chopped,  and  1  clove  of  garlic.  Add 
1  cup  well  washed  rice  and  cook  until  dry;  then  cover  with  soup 
stock,  and  cook  until  tender,  add  a  lump  of  butter,  and  salt  to  taste, 
and  break  half  a  dozen  eggs  on  top  of  the  rice  and  scramble. 
Serve  hot. — Mrs.  William  Myers,  Franklin,  111. 


28  EGGS 

EGG  ESCALFADOS.— Butter  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  break  6  eggs  separately  in  it.  Melt  1  oz.  of  butter  and  while 
it  is  hot  stir  it  into  1  tablespoon  of  cream  or  milk.  Pour  it  over 
the  eggs,  cover  closely  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  10  min- 
utes.—Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

WHITE  HOUSE  ESCALLOPED  EGGS.— Cut  8  hard-boiled 
eggs  in  thin  slices;  put  in  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of  egg  and  then  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper,  put  small  pieces  of  butter 
on  each  layer  of  egg;  pour  over  all  1  cup  of  sweet  cream  or  milk,  set 
in  a  hot  oven  for  10  minutes. — Mrs.  May  C.  Fletcher,  Maywood,  111. 

EGG  A  LA  ESPAGNOLE— Chop  very  fine  2  small  cloves  of 
garlic  and  half  a  green  pepper.  Dice  2  small  tomatoes  or  1  very 
large  one.  Put  in  a  saucepan  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg; 
when  melted,  put  in  the  tomatoes,  garlic,  and  pepper.  Cook  slowly 
until  tomatoes  are  done,  then  add  the  6  eggs  and  salt.  Stir  and 
keep  stirring  until  the  eggs  are  thick.  Serve  quickly.  This  is, easy 
to  cook  in  a  chafing  dish. — Mr?.  C.  E.  Westinghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

EGG  FAREES.— Cut  a  slice  from  each  end  of  6  hard-boiled 
eggs  and  cut  eggs  in  halves.  Mash  yolks  until  light,  add  y^  tea- 
spoon of  pepper,  14  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  4  table- 
spoons of  milk  and  3  drops  of  onion  juice,  mix  thoroughly  and  heap 
high  in  the  hollows  of  the  whites.  Place  all  on  a  tin  plate  or  pan 
in  the  oven  for  6  minutes.  Arrange  the  eggs  on  a  warm  dish  and 
pour  over  them  a  cream.  Bechamel,  tomato  or  curry  sauce. — Mrs; 
Ella  Fairchild,  Palatine,  111. 

FRICASEED  EGGS.— Allow  1  hard-tboiled  egg  for  each  per- 
son, cut  in  'halves  lengthwise.  Stand  them  around  the  sides  of  a 
small  meat  dish  and  pour  over  them  a  sauce  made  of  2  large  spoons 
of  flour,  moistened  with  enough  milk  to  make  thick  paste.  When 
it  is  perfectly  smooth  add  a  small  cup  milk,  a  large  lump  butter, 
plenty  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  large  tablespoon  parsley.  Pour  in 
another  cup  of  boiling  water  and  stir  constantly  over  the  fire  until 
it  bubbles.  A  nice  dish  for  breakfast  or  supper. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Cleve- 
land, Bartlett,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  into  the  chafing 
dish;  when  melted  add  1  tablespoon  flour,  stirring  constantly,  1 
sprig  of  parsley  cut  fine,  J/^  dozen  minced  mushrooms  and  j^  pt.  of 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  29 

white  stock,  veal  or  chicken.  Simmer  5  minutes  and  add  ^  dozen 
hard-boiled  sliced  eggs.  Boil  up  once  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRICASEED  EGGS  AND  ONIONS.— Slice  6  hard-boiled 
eggs  lengthwise.  Cut  an  onion  in  thin  slices  and  fry  in  3  table- 
spoons of  butter  until  a  delicate  brown.  Add  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  nutmeg  if  desired,  and  1  cup  rich  milk. 
Stir  and  boil  a  few  moments.  Add  the  eggs  and  set  pan  in  a  double 
boiler  until  eggs  are  re-heated. — Mrs.  D.  O.  Dooley,  Bensen,  Hi. 

CANADIAN  FONDA.— Mix  2  tablespoons  of  flour  smooth 
in  a  little  milk  and  stir  in  the  remainder  of  1  cup  of  milk;  add  it 
with  1  ta'blespoon  of  butter  to  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs;  mix 
the  beaten  whites  lightly  with  them.  Pour  into  a  well-greased 
omelet  tin,  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  15  minutes.  Sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon,  or  with  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  and   serve  immediately. — Mrs.   C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,    111. 

FONDA  AU  GRATIN.— Melt  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  stir  in 
a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  mix  well.  Add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  "% 
pt.  of  milk  and  let  it  simmer  for  2  minutes,  stirring;  then  take  it 
from  the  fire.  Shred  4  oz.  of  cheese  into  thin  slices  and  stir  into  the 
mixture;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka. 111. 

FRIED  EGGS. — Have  enough  clear  boiling  fat  in  a  frying  pan 
to  cover  an  tg^  broken  in,  if  dripping  is  used  strain  the  fat  and 
return  it  to  the  clean  pan.  Break  the  eggs  separately  into  a  cup; 
drop  each  carefully  into  the  fat,  which  should  be  piping  hot  to  pre- 
vent running  together.  Dip  up  the  fat  with  a  spoon  and  pour  it 
gently  over  the  eggs  as  they  cook  until  a  delicate  white  coating 
forms,  through  which  the  yolk  blushes.  Fry  a  longer  or  shorter 
time,  as  desired,  soft  or  hard.  You  need  no  test  but  eye  and  touch. 
— Mrs.  Ernest  D.  Dean,  Clen  View,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Put  a  tablespoon  of  fat  in  a  frying  pan  and 
when  hot  break  in  eggs  carefully.  Season  to  taste  and  then  add  1 
teaspoon  of  water  and  cover  pan  tightly.  The  eggs  both  steam 
and  fry  and  are  very  tender. — Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Heat  omelet  pan.  Put  in  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter; when  melted,  slip  in  an  tgg,  and  cook  until  the  white  is  firm. 


30  EGGS 

Turn  it  over  once  while  cooking.  Add  more  butter  as  needed, 
using  just  enough  to  keep  Qgg  from  sticking. — Mrs.  C.  Buttercup. 
Bensen,  111. 

FRIED  EGGS  AND  BACON.— Fry  12  thin  slices  of  bacon 
until  crisp;  take  them  out  and  keep  hot  in  the  oven.  Break  6 
eggs  separately  into  the  boiling  fat  and  fry  until  brown.  Serve 
with  the  eggs  laid  over  the  bacon, .  and  small  fried  squares  of 
bread  placed  around.  Hash  can  be  used  instead  of  bacon. — Mrs. 
C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS,  SPANISH  STYLE.— Heat  an  earthen  pan 
slowly  and  melt  in  it  a  tablespoon  of  butter;  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt, 
a  little  pepper  and  a  small  onion  minced  very  fine;  parsley  and 
sweet  herbs  may  be  substituted  instead  of  the  onion.  Drop  in  the 
eggs  one  at  a  time;  do  not  stir,  but  let  them  brown  a  little;  turn 
carefully  and  brown  the  other  side.  Serve  in  the  same  dish  as 
hot  as  possible. — Mrs.   C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRIED  EGGS  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE.— Put  a  lump  of  but- 
ter into  the  frying  pan,  and  when  it  hisses  sharply,  fry  the  eggs. 
When  done,  dish  and  keep  them  hot  over  boiling  water.  Melt  2 
tablespoons  of  butter,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour;  fry  brown,  then 
add  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar  and  a  little  onion  juice  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Boil  the  whole  together  for  2  minutes;  pour  it  over  the 
eggs  and  serve. — Mrs.  Alex.  Drexel,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

FRIED  EGGS  WITH  VEAL.— Chop  veal  fine  and  mix  with 
white  sauce;  season  highly,  bring  to  a  boil  and  mold  in  the  middle  of 
a  hot  platter.  Against  this  hillock  of  mince  lay  fried  eggs,  neatly 
trimmed,  and  outside  of  these  curled  strips  of  fried  breakfast  bacon. 
This  dish  will  be  much  improved  by  the  addition  of  half  a  can  of 
mushrooms,  minced  fine. — ^Mrs.  Tom  Bell,  Bartlett,  111. 

FRIED  EGGS  WITH  POTATOES.— Slice  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes and  fry  in  butter  till  nicely  brown;  in  the  meantime  beat  1  or 
2  eggs  and  stir  into  the  potatoes  nicely,  and  take  up  at  once  so  as 
not  to  harden  the  egg,  but  merely  to  cook  slightly.  One  egg  is 
enough  for  3  or  4  persons. — Mrs.  Martha  Barber,  Mayfair,  111. 

EGGS  IN  FORCEMEAT.^Shell  and  cut  4  hard-boiled  eggs 
in  two  and  rub  the  yolks  through  a  sieve  or  strainer;  rub  1  tea- 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  51 

spoon  of  flour  and  2  tablespoons  of  butter  together,  add  1  cup  of 
soup  stock  seasoning,  1  slice  of  onion  and  1  teaspoon  of  lemon 
juice,  1  clove,  1  'bay  leaf  and  a  sprig  of  parsley,  stew  gently  12  min- 
utes and  then  strain  it  over  cup  bread  crumbs  and  meat  which 
must  be  well  mixed.  Fill  the  egg  hollows  with  some  of  this  mix- 
ture and  spread  the  rest  on  a  small  platter.  Stand  the  filled  eggs 
in  this  bed  of  forcemeat  and  decorate  them  and  it  with  little  mounds 
of  the  sifted  yolks.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  8  minutes.  Serve 
with  J/2  pt.  of  tomato,  Bechamel  or  ibrown  sauce  poured  over  the 
dish  or  in  a  separate  dish.  Nice  for  luncheon.  Serves  6. — Mrs. 
T.  R.  Barker,  Kenilworth,  111. 

EGGS  AU  GRATIN.— Cut  hard^-boiled  eggs  in  slices  and  lay 
them  in  a  deep  dish  in  close  circular  rows.  Make  a  sauce  of  a 
tablespoon  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  a  little  grated  cheese  and 
y2  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Stir  this  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens,  pour 
it  over  ^t  eggs,  strew  some  bread  crumbs  on  the  top  and  bake 
for  about  10  minutes.  Serve  hot.  Nice  for  Lent. — Mrs.  Anna 
Brinkley,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Remove  shells  from  6  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut 
a  thin  slice  from  each  end,  cut  in  half  crosswise.  Remove  yolks  and 
stand  the  white  cups  or  baskets  on  a  shallow  buttered  dish.  Rub 
yolks  to  a  smooth  paste;  add  ]4  cup  of  either  grated  cheese, 
minced  ham,  tongue,  chicken,  fish  or  any  left-over  meat  preferred, 
a  speck  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  moisten  with  vinegar  and  olive  oil 
or  melted  butter.  Shape  into  balls'  size  of  yolks  and  return  to 
whites;  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  or  chopped  parsley  and  cover 
with  white,  cream  or  tomato  sauce  and  buttered  bread  crumbs. 
Brown  in  oven  and  serve  hot,  garnished  with  parsley.  The  eggs 
m.ay  be  quartered,  sliced  or  chopped,  covered  with  the  sauce  and 
grated  cheese  and  buttered  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  browned. 
Onions  may  be  added  if  desired. — .Mabel  Sturievant,  105  S.  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago,  111. 

GOLDEN  ROD  EGGS.— Slice  whites  of  6  hard-boiled  eggs 
over  6  slices  of  toast,  then  pour  cream  dressing  over  this;  grate  the 
yolks  and  garnish. — Mrs.  Emma  Gray,  -Maywood,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  GOLDEN  ROD.— Make  a  thin  white  sauce  with 
butter,  flour,  milk  and  seasonings.     Separate  yolks  from  whites  of 


Z2  EGGS 

3  hard-boiled  eggs.  Chop  whites  finely,  and  add  thciii  to  the  i auce. 
Cut  4  slices  of  toast  in  halves  lengthwise.  Arrange  on  platter, 
and  pour  over  the  sauce.  Force  the  yolks  through  a  potato  ricer  or 
strainer,  sprinkling  over  tiie  top.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  re- 
maining toast,  cut  in  points. — Mrs.  Chris.  Anderson,  Kcnilworth, 
111. 

GRIDDLED  EGGS.— Arrange  small  muffin  rings  on  a  hot,  but- 
tered griddle,  drop  an  egg  in  each,  and  turn  as  soon  as  lightly 
browned. — Jane  Andrews,  Mayfair,  111. 

INDIAN  EGGS.— Cut  a  small  slice' from  each  end  of  some 
hard-boiled  eggs  and  cut  them  into  halves  the  round  way.  Take 
out  the  yolks  and  pound  them  and  mix  them  well  with  a  mixture 
made  as  follows:  A  heaping  teaspoon  of  curry  powder,  2  oz.  butter, 
and  a  dessertspoon  of  essence  of  anchovy,  well  blended  and  cooked 
in  a  sauce  pan.  Fill  the  eggs  with  the  mixture.  Serve  with  gar- 
nished watercress  and  rolled  bread  and  butter. — ^Mrs.  Edward  Ab- 
bcytt,  Palatine,  111. 

EGG  A  LA  HAVANA.— Boil  8  eggs  10  minutes,  cut  them  into 
slices,  chop  2  small  Spanish  onions  and  6  tomatoes,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  them  with  y^  cup  of  bread  crumbs  in  2  oz. 
of  'butter.  Add  ^  pt.  of  stock  and  stir  for  10  minutes  after  it  boils. 
Place  the  slices  of  eggs  in  the  liquid  and  warm  through. — Mrs.  C. 
J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

HUNGARIAN  EGG.— Place  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  wal- 
nut in  a  pan  (after  having  boiling  water  to  heat  the  pan);  let  it 
melt,  add  an  onion  chopped  fine,  and  cook  until  soft.  Add  1  pt. 
strained  tomatoes,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  add  Yj,  lb.  mild  cheese  cut 
fine,  stir  until  smooth,  break  in  3  eggs  and  stir  hard  until  the  eggs 
arc  done.  Be  careful  not  to  break  the  yolk  In  stirring,  or  it  will 
result  in  a  bard  lump.  Serve  on  crackers  or  buttered  toast. — Mrs 
C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

EGGS,  HUNGARIAN  STYLE.— 1  teaspoon  paprika,  V-,  tea- 
•poon  salt.  Wash  1  cup  rice,  boil  until  tender,  drain  and  dry. 
Arrange  this  in  the  form  of  a  mound  in  the  center  of  a  platter. 
Poach  6  eggs;  lift  them  carefully  and  place  them  over  the  rice. 
Rub  2  talblespoons  each  of  butter  and  flour  together,  ^  pt.  vegeta- 
ble atock,  or  water,  and  season  with  paprika.    Stir  until  boiling; 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  33 

add  the  salt,  pour  this  over  the  eggs  and  rice  and  send  at  or.ce  to 
the  table. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Barnes,  Bartlett,  111. 

EGGS  HUNTINGTON.— Make  a  sauce  of.  1  tablespoon  each 
of  butter  and  flour,  1/3  cup  soup  and  1/3  cup  milk;  add  4  hard-  ' 
boiled  eggs  finely  chopped,  and  salt  and  cayenne.  Fill  buttered 
ramekin  dishes  with  mixture,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  cover 
with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  crumbs  are 
brown. — Mrs.  John  Barr,  Mayfair,  111. 

JAPANESE  EGGS.— J-^  pt.  of  cream  sauce,  6  eggs,  1  table-  . 
spoon  of  chopped  parsley,  a  suspicion  of  onion,  1  tablespoon  of 
soy.  Hard  boil  the  eggs.  Carefully  boil  1  cup  rice,  drain  and 
turn  it  into  the  center  of  a  meat  platter,  making  it  into  a  sort  of 
plateau;  cut  6  hot  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves  crosswise,  press 
them  diQWTi  inio  the  rice,  pour  cream  sauce  to  which  you  have 
added  a  little  onion  with  finely  chopped  parsley  or  cress.  The 
eggs  may  be  cut  into  slices,  one  overlapping  the  other  all  over  the 
top  of  the  rice,  and  the  cream  sauce  poured  over.  This  dish  may 
be  varied  by  using  tomato  sauce  in  the  place  of  cream  sauce.  The 
edge  of  the  dish  may  also  be  garnished  with  broiled  sardines,  or 
smoked  salmon. — Mrs.   Wm.   Barton,  Park  Ridge,   111. 

KENTUCKY  EGGS.— Take  the  required  number  of  eggs  and 
make  a  small  opening  in  the  end  of  each  and  beat  up  its  contents 
with  a  toothpick,  a  tiny  spoon  or  any  similar  implement;  take  out 
a  little  of  the  beaten  egg  and  stir  in  a  little  grated  ham,  salt,  pep- 
per and  a  dash  of  rnustard.  Mix  well  and  set  the  eggs  in  a  pan, 
open  end  up,  bracing  them  so  they  will  not  tip  over.  Now  pour 
into  the  pan  enough  hot  water  to  almost  cover  the  shells,  taking 
care  that  none  of  it  gets  into  them.  Cook  hard,  break^  off  the 
shells  and  serve,  garnished  with  parsley. — Mrs.  John  Masters, 
Park  Ridge,  111. 

EGGS  A  L'ARDENAISE.— Beat  6  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  sea- 
son with  a  half  teaspoon  each  of  onion  juice  and  chopped  chives, 
and  1  teaspoon  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Butter  a  bake  dish  and  turn  in  the  eggs,  pour  on  top  very  care- 
fully 4  tablespoons  thick  cream.  Place  at  equal  distance  the  un- 
broken yolks,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  yolks  are  well  set. 
Serve  in  the  same  dish. — Mrs.  John  Milton,  Kenilworth,  111. 


34  EGGS 

EGGS  A  LA  LEE. — 'Cover  circular  pieces  of  toasted  bread 
with  thin  slices  cold  boiled  ham.  Arrange  on  each  a  dropped  egg 
and  pour  white  sauce  over. — Mrs.  M.  A.  Mass,  Glencoe,  HI. 

EGGS  A  LA  LIVINGSTONE.— Beat  4  eggs  slightly  and  add 
Y2  cup  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes,  salt,  and  paprika.  Melt  2 
tablespoons  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  add  seasoned  eggs,  and  cook 
same  as  Scrambled  Eggs.  Spread  slices  of  toasted  bread  with 
white  sauce.  Pour  over  the  eggs  and  sprinkle  with  trufiles. — Mrs. 
Edith  Mosely,  Palatine,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  LUCCHESE.— Fry  an  onion  nearly  brown,  add 
5^2  pt.  of  milk  and  6  halved  hard-boiled  eggs.  Stir  over  a  slow 
fire  3  or  4  minutes,  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  dessert- 
S'poon  of  chopped  parsley,  an  oz.  of  grated  cheese  and  a  pinch 
each  of  cinnamon,  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  over  a  slow  fire  6  or  8 
minutes,  squeeze  lemon  juice  over  the  whole,  and  serve  hot. — 
Mrs.  Martin  Miller,  Wheeling,  111. 

LUCANIAN  EGGS. — 1/2  cup  grated  cheese,  essence  anchovy, 
1^  cups  white  sauce,  salt  and  paprika,  onion  juice,  ^  cup  but- 
tered crumbs.  Cut  5  hard>-boiled  eggs  in  eighths  lengthwise,  add 
1  cup  cooked  macaroni,  1^  cups  white  sauce,  J^  cup  grated  cheese, 
essence  of  anchovy,  onion  juice,  salt  and  paprika.  Arrange  in 
buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  until 
crumbs  are  brown. — Mrs.  P.  T.  McLaren,  Mayfair,  111. 

LYONNAISE  EGGS.— Cook  1  chopped  onion  in  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  for  10  minutes,  then  add  1  ta'blespoon  of  flour 
and  cook  till  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  frothy,  stirring  constantly. 
Gradually  pour  in  1  cup  of  milk  and  cook  3  minutes,  stirring  the 
first  minute;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  this 
sauce  into  a  deep,  hot  plate,  and  carefully  break  into  it  6  eggs; 
cover  the  eggs  with  J4  cup  of  grated  "bread  crumbs  and  cook  in 
a  moderately  hot  oven  4  minutes.  Serve  in  the  baking  dish.  If  a 
strong  flavor  of  onions  is  disliked,  strain  the  sauce  into  the  heated 
plate,  thus  keeping  out  the  onion  pulp. — ^Mrs.  John  Adkins.  Wheel- 
ing, 111. 

EGGS  MAITRE  D'HOTEL.— Slice  and  fry  Spanish  onions  in 
butter,  but  do  not  let  them  brown.    Add  a  little  flour,  hot  milk,' 
chopped  parsley,  salt  and  white  pepper,  and  let  thicken.     Cut  the 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  35 

eggs  that  have  been  boiled  for  10  minutes  into  quarters,  lay  them 
in  the  sauce,  when  hot,  arrange  in  a  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over 
them. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

EGG  EN  MARINADI.— Mix  equal  quantities  of  water  and 
good  meat  gravy,  2  tablespoons  of  each,  with  a  teaspoon  of  vine- 
gar and  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  and 
stir  in  gradually  2  well-beaten  eggs.  When  it  thickens,  and  be- 
fore it  boils,  have  ready  6  poached  eggs,  and  pour  the  sauce  over 
them.     Garnish  with  parsley. — Mrs.   C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  lU. 

EGGS  A  LA  MARTIN.— For  the  sauce  take  1  heaping  table- 
spoon of  butter,  and  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  put  them  in  a 
pan  over  the  fire  till  both  are  combined  there.  Add  the  milk  and 
stir  till  it  boils,  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Pour  this  on  a  plat- 
ter and  sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  it,  then  carefully  break  4  eggs 
on  to  the  sauce  and  bake  them  in  an  oven  till  the  eggs  are  cooked, 
about  10  minutes. — Mrs.  Almond  Case,  Palatine,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  MARTIN  WITH  SPINACH.— Cover  the  cen- 
ter of  a  platter  with  finely  chopped  spinach.  Beat  3  eggs  slightly, 
add  3  tablespoons  hot  water,  1/3  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  each 
red  and  green  pepper  cut  in  strips,  and  1  tablespoon  cooked  ham  cut 
in  very  small  pieces.  Heat  omelet  pan,  put  in  Ij^  tablespoons 
olive  oil,  and  as  soon  as  heated  pour  in  mixture.  Cook  same  as 
French  Omelet  and  turn  on  to  spinach.  Garnish  with  parsley. — 
Mrs.  C.  F.  Adams,  Franklin,  111. 

EGGS  MEJIDOS.— Beat  6  eggs  well,  add  2  tablespoons  of 
sugar  and  a  small  cup  of  boiling  water.  Beat  the  whole  together 
a  second  time.  May  be  served  on  toast. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

EGGS  MEXICANA. — 1  onion,  1  green  pepper,  1  red  pepper, 
^  pt.  tomatoes,  1  teaspoon  salt,  saltspoon  of  pepper,  6  or  8  eggs. 
Put  2  tablespoons  of  'butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  onion  and  1 
green  pepper,  chopped;  shake  until  the  onion  is  soft,  not  brown; 
add  yz  pt.  tomatoes,  salt  and  pepper.  Shir  the  eggs  as  either  in 
individual  dishes,  2  to  a  dish,  or  on  a  platter.  When  the  eggs  are 
ready  to  serve  put  the  sauce  by  spoonfuls  around  the  edge  of  the 
dish.  May  be  made  without  high  seasonings. — 'Mrs.  B.  Reeves, 
Palatine,  111. 


36  ECGS 

MINCED  EGGS.— Chop- up,  not  too  fine,  4  or  5  hard-boiled 
eggs.  Put  over  the  lire,  in  a  saucepan,  1  tablespoon  of  butler,  an.1 
when  it  begins  to  bubble,  stir  into  it  one  tablespoon  of  flour; 
cook  1  minute,  then  add  1  cup  of  hot  milk.  When  it  cooks  thick. 
like  cream,  put  in  the  minced  eggs.  Stir  it  for  a  few  minutes  and 
serve  garnished  with  sippets  of  toast. — Mrs.  Mary  Carpenter,  Des 
Plaines,  111. 

MIRRORED  EGGS. — Butter  as  many  teacups  as  you  need 
and  sprinkle  over  them  chopped  parsley,  a  grating  of  lemon  peel 
and  a  dash  of  onion  and  pepper  and  salt  all  mixed  together. 
Break  a  fresh  egg  into  each  cup  and  steam  till  set.  Spread  cir- 
cles of  hot  toast  with  butter  and  anchovy  paste,  turn  an  egg  on 
each  and  serve. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Putnam,  Wheeling.  111. 

EGGS  AU  MIROIR.— Cover  the  bottom  of  a  stoneware  or 
silver  platter  with  a  few  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Break  in  as  many 
eggs  as  necessary  for  the  number  of  persons  to  be  served.  Dot 
with  bits  of  butter  using  about  a  tablespoon  to  each  6  eggs. 
Stand  the  platter  over  hot  water  in  the  oven,  until  tihe  eggs  are 
set.  Dust  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. — Mrs.  Frank  Cress, 
Park  Ridge,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  MODE. — Remove  the  skin  from  1  dozen  toma- 
toes, cut  them  up  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  little  butter,  pepper  and 
salt;  wihen  sufficiently  boiled,  beat  up  5  or  6  eggs.  Just  before 
served,  turn  them  into  the  saucepan  with  the  tomatoes,  and  stir 
one  way  for  2  minutes. — Mrs.   C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,   111. 

EGGS  MORNAY. — Break  egg  and  slip  into  buttered  egg- 
shirrers,  allowing  1  or  2  eggs  to  each  shirrer,  according  to  size. 
Cover  with  white  sauce,  seasoned  with  1/3  cup  grated  cheese,  pap- 
rika, and  yolks  of  2  eggs;  cover  with  grated  dheese  and  bake  until 
firm. — Mrs.  Cbas.  Johnston,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

MOULDED  EGGS.— Prepare  a  round  of  toast  for  each  tgg. 
Butter  same  number  of  small  teacups  or  individual  moulds,  and 
sprinkle  each  with  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley.  Break  each 
tgg  gently  into  a  saucer  and  slip  into  the  moulds.  Stand  the 
moulds  in  a  pan,  pour  boiling  water  around  them  and  bake  until 
set  (about  8  or  10  minutes).     Turn  each  out  on  a  round  of  toast 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  37 

arranged  on  a  hot  platter  and  pour  tomato  or  cream  sauce  around 
on  the  toast. — 'Mrs.   Ralph   Charters,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

MOULDED  EGGS  IN  PIMENTOS.— Line  buttered  tim- 
bale,  or  other  moulds  with  canned  pimentoes;  ibreak  an  egg  into 
each  mould,  and  poach  until  the  egg,  is  set;  then  turn  from  the 
moulds  on  to  rounds  of  buttered  toast  and  serve  with  cream 
sauce. — Mrs.  Edith   Fairchild,  Glen  View,   111. 

EGGS  IN  A  NEST.— Pile  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  on  a 
round  slice  of  toast,  giving  it  the  form  of  a  nest;  drop  in  the  yolk 
and  let  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  until  set.  In  this  case  the  toast 
takes  the  place  of  water.  If  desired  the  toast  may  first  'be  spread 
with  anchovy  paste,  fine-chopped  ham  or  chicken,  stirred  into  a 
white  sauce. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Sherman,  Palatine,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Separate  the  white  and  yolk  of  the  egg, 
beat  the  white  stiff,  seasoning  with  a  pinch  of  salt;  put  it  in  a 
buttered  cup,  make  a  hollow  in  the  center  and  drop  the  yolk  into 
it.  Stand  the  cup  in  a  saucepan,  pour  water  around  it,  cover 
closely  and  cook  until  the  white  is  set  on  top.  Dust  with  pep- 
per.— Mrs.  C.  E.  Westinghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Reat  to  a  froth  the  whites  of  6  eggs,  a  lit- 
tle pepper  and  salt,  pour  into  a  buttered  baking  tin,  dip  upon  it  6 
tablespoons  nice  cream,  1  only  in  a  place;  upon  each  spoonful  of 
cream  drop  1  of  the  yolks  ('being  careful  not  to  break  them),  place 
in  moderately  'hot  oven  to  cook,  and  serve  hot  as  omelet. — Mrs. 
C.  C.  Cleveland,  Bartlett,  111. 

NESTING  EGGS.— Whites  of  6  hard-boiled  eggs  into  long 
straws.  Heat  a  flat  baking  dish  and  arrange  the  shreds  around 
the  inner  edge.  Have  ready  a  handful  of  s^hredded  celery,  which 
has  been  stewed  tender  in  a  little  milk,  then  seasoned.  Lay  this 
inside  of  the  lines  of  white  shavings  and  put  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
melted  'butter  over  botli.  Set  in  the  oven  until  very  hot.  Pick 
to  pieces  a  cup  of  cold  'boiled  or  baked  fish  and  run  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  through  the  colander  or  vegetable  press.  Mix  with  the 
fish,  moisten  with  drawn  butter,  and  mold  into  egg-shaped  balls. 
Dispose  these  neatly  within  the  "nest,''  and  pour  over  therrf  a  cup 
of  drawn  butter  to  give  the  desired  whiteness.  Set  in  the  oven 
for  a  few  minutes  to  get  them  heated  through  and  serve.     Stewed 


38  "  EGGS 

celery  left  over  from  yesterday's  dinner,  and  cold  fish,  chicken 
or  oth«r  meat  may  be  used  for  this. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

EGGS  NUREMBERG  STYLE.— Put  an  egg  in  boiling  wa- 
ter and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  10  minutes.*  Take  it  out,  remove 
the  shell  and'  dip  it  in  a  batter.  Fry  it  in  hot  butter  until  it  is 
browned  all  over,  then  dip  it  in  again  and  repeat  until  the  ball  is 
large.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  artd  pour  wine  sauce  over  it. — Mrs.  C, 
J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

PLAIN  OMELETTE.— 1  t^^  to  each  person  and  2  for  the 
pan.  Beat  lightly  with  ^^^  beater,  add  1  taiblespoon  of  sweet  milk  for 
each  tg%  used,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  fry  in  hot 
butter  till  ridh  brown.  While  frying,  turn  the  pan  and  shift  it 
over  the  fire  so  that  all  parts  receive  equal  heat.  If  it  gets  too 
hot  lift  the  pan  for  an  instant  as  the  omelette  cooks.  Do  not  let 
it  burn.  Raise  the  omelette,  at  the  edges,  with  a  knife  as  it  sets, 
passing  the  knife  farther  and  farther  under  it  as  it  grows  firm, 
and  letting  the  butter  run  under,  and  the  air  pass  in,  to  keep  from 
scorching.  When  you  can  raise  it  to  the  middle  and  it  is  high 
and  fluffy,  take  the  p^n  off  and  set  it  in  the  oven  on  the  grated 
shelf,  to  finish  setting  the  top  of  the  omelette  firmly,  which  will 
be  quickly  done.  It  may  be  either  browned  and  served  in  a  round, 
upon  a  large  dish,  or  turned  half  upon  the  other  in  the  usual  ome- 
lette shape,  as  soon  as  it  ceases  to  be  at  all  liquid.  Slip  or  turn 
upon  a  hot  dish,  put  a  hot  cover  over  it  and  send  it  instantly  to 
the  table.  If  omelette  must  stand  after  cooked,  put  the  platter 
on  which  it  'has  been  placed  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water  to  keep 
the  omelettes  warm.  Do  not  leave  in  pan. — 'Mabel  E.  Sturtevant, 
105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 6  well-^beaten  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beat- 
en separately).  Add  a  tablespoon  of  milk  for  each  egg.  Season 
with  pepper  and  a  very  little  salt  (as  salt  is  liable  to  make  ome- 
lette flat).  Add  a  little  chopped  onion.  Fold  whites  and  yolks 
of  eggs  together,  then  all  milk.  Have  pan  good  and  warm.  Put 
in  enough  butter  to  nicely  grease  pan.  Pour  in  part  of  the  mix- 
ture, and  when  golden  brown  on  under  side,  roll,  let  stand  for  a 
minutes  or  two  to  let  center  cook. — Naomi  T.  Compton,  Kenil- 
worth,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  39 

VARIATION  II. — Make  a  batter  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  milk  or 
white  stock  and  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  beat  it  well  and  add  5^ 
cup  of  grated  ham.  Fry  in  nice  fat  or  drippings  of  roasted  ham. — 
Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

ALMOND  OMELETTE.— Beat  yolks  of  desired  number  of 
eggs  until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  cut 
and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.  Put  }i  table- 
spoon of  butter  in  a  hot  omelette  pan,  cover  bottom  of  pan  with 
shredded  almonds,  turn  in  mixture,  and  cook  and  fold  same  as 
plain  omelette.  This  may  be  made  a  sweet  omelette  by  adding 
caramel  and  vanilla  to  the  'beaten  yolks  and  pouring  the  following 
sauce  around  it  on  the  platter.  It  is  then  called  Caramel  Almond 
Omelette. 

CARAMEL  SAUCE. — Pour  1  cup  of  sugar  in  omelette  pan, 
and  stir  constantly  over  hot  part  of  range  until  melted  to  a  bright 
brown  syrup.  Add  ^  cup  of  hot  water,  and  let  simmer  10  min- 
utes.— Mrs.  C.  Maybee,  Mayfair,  111. 

APPLE  OMELETTE.— Pare  and  core  6  or  8  large  cooking 
apples,  stew  in  preserving  pan  till  quite  soft.  Mash,  add  1  cup 
sugar,  an  oz.  of  butter,  and  season  with  cinnamon.  Let  apples 
cool,  put  in  'beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  stir  well  together.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  the  mixture,  pour  all  into  a  low 
pudding  basin,  and  put  into  hot  oven  to  brown.  A  nice  accom- 
paniment to  roast  pork  or  boiled  spare  rib. — Mrs.  Chas.  C.  Clark, 
Wheeling,  111. 

ASPARAGUS  OMELETTE.— Boil  in  salted  water  until 
cooked  8  or  10  stalks  of  asparagus.  Cut  the  green  part  into  small 
pieces.  Make  plain  omelette  in  the  usual  way,  mixing  the  aspara- 
gus in  with  the  beaten  egg  before  pouring  into  the  pan,  or  placing 
them  while  hot  on  the  omelette  before  folding  it. — Mrs.  D.  C. 
Miller,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

BAKED  OMELETTE.— Have  the  oven  hot.  Put  2  table- 
spoons bacon  or  ham  drippings  or  butter  into  a  medium  sized 
cast-iron  frying  pan,  and  place  where  it  will  get  hot  without  burn- 
ing. Beat  4  eggs  without  separating  until  very  light;  add  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.     Run  the  dripping  around  the  pan  to  grease 


40  EGGS 

the  bottom  and  sides.  Turn  J/2  cup  milk  into  the  eggs,  carry  the 
bowl  to  the  hot  pan.  Place  immediately  in  the  oven  and  bake 
until  set  in  the  center.  Run  a  knife  around  the  edge,  stand  the 
pan  vertically  at  the  edge  of  a  hot  platter,  and  the  omelette  will 
roll  out  freely.  This  is  a  delicate  omelette,  but  must  be  served 
the  moment  it  is  cooked. — Mrs.  May  Friend,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Take  6  eggs  and  beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
separately,  put  in  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
d-er,  1  teaspoon  salt  into  a  pudding  dish.  Pour  both  yolks  and 
whites  of  eggs  into  the  dish  and  beat.  Next,  add  Yz  cup  of  milk 
or  white  stock.  Put,  into  a  spider  greased  well  with  butter.  Put 
into  a  quick  oven,  bake  a  light  brown,  when  done  spread  with 
butter  and  roll. — Mrs.  S.  A.  Christy,  Arlington  Heights.  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Separate  whites  and  yolks  of  6  eggs.  Add 
a  pinch  of  salt  to  whites  and  beat  until  very  light.  Beat  yolk? 
with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  4  tablespoons  cream.  Pour  yolk 
mixture  into  hot  buttered  pan,  set  on  stove  until  it  siets,  then 
spread  whites  over  it,  and  put  it  in  oven  until  slig-htly  browned. 
Remove,  lift  one  side  with  a  broad  knife,  roll  it  up  and  place  on 
hot  platter.     Serve  at  once. — Mr^Mose  Casey.  Franklin.  111. 

BREAD  OMELETTE.— Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  add  ^ 
cup  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  5^  cup  bread 
crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  into  this  carefully  the 
beaten  whites  and  mix  very  lightly.  Have  a  very  smooth  frying 
pan,  hot,  turn  in  the  mixture  gently,  and  set  it  over  a  clear  fire. 
being  very  careful  not  to  burn,  shake  occasionally  to  see  that  the 
omelette  does  not  stick.  Stand  the  frying  pan  in  the  oven  for  a 
moment  to  set  the  middle.  When  done  toss  it  over  on  a  warm 
platter  to  bring  the  brown  side  of  the  omelette  uppermost,  or  fold 
over  half  and  turn  out  in  the  center  of  a  platter.  Serve  immedi- 
ately or  it  will  fall. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

BOILED  OMELETTE.— Beat  5  eggs  quite  light.  Add  pep- 
per, salt,  and  a  little  minced  parsley  and  a  cup  of  cream  or  sweet 
milk.  Butter  your  cups  or  molds  and  pour  them  half  full  of  the 
mixture.  Set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  boil  15  minutes  and  serve 
hot. — Mrs.  Nathan  Morris,  Glencoe,  III. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  41 

VARIATION  I. — Soak  3  tablespoons  of  stale  crumbs  in  a 
cup  of  milk  for  2  hrs.  Beat  6  eggs — ^whites  and  yolks  separated— 
very  light.  Into  the  yolks  stir  the  soaked  crumbs  and  season 
the  mixture  with  salt  and  pepper.  Last  of  all,  stir  in  with  a  few 
light  strokes  the  stiffened  whites.  Butter  a  deep  pudding  dish, 
pour  the  mixture  into  this,  set  it  on  the  lower  grating  of  a  quick 
oven  and  bake  until  light  and  brown.  Sift  brown  crumbs  over 
the  top  and  serve  the  omelette  as  soon  as  it  is  removed  frora 
oven. — Mrs.  B.  C.  Moore,  Bartlett,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Scald  as  follows:  ^  cup  milk,  J^  cup  bread 
crumbs,  salt,  and  pepper  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Then 
mix  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Beat  whites  stiff  and  fold 
in  just  before  putting  in  pan.  Fry  brown  on  both  sides.  Peas 
or  corn  may  be  added  if  wished. — Mrs.  Phillip  D.  Moore,  Kenil- 
worth.  111. 

CAKE  OR  COOKIE  OMELETTE.— Prepare  1  tablespoon 
of  grated  and  sifted  crumbs  and  soak  in  milk,  water,  cream,  white 
wine,  gravy,  lemon  juice,  brandy  or  rum,  according  to  flavor  and 
sweetness  desired.  Thoroughly  beat  together  4  eggs  with  a  little 
nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  now  a^d  the  crumbs  and  beat  constantly 
(or  the  omelette  will  be  crumbly)  until  the  frying-pan  is  buttered 
and  made  thoroughly  hot;  pour  in  the  omelette;  cook  till  set;  turn 
it  on  a  dish;  fold  double  and  serve.  For  a  sweet  omelette,  stale 
sponge  cake,  grated  cookies,  sweet  crackers  or  pound  cake  may 
be  used,  and  lumps  of  currant  jelly  should  decorate  it.  Sift  pound- 
ed loaf  sugar  over  it  when  served. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Allen,  Arlington 
Heights,  111. 

CHEESE  OMELETTE.— Take  a  tablespoon  of  grated  cheese 
for  each  egg  used.  Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  ^  teaspoon  of 
butter,  salt,  cayenne,  and  half  of  the  cheese.  Melt  remaining  but- 
ter, add  mixture,  and  cook  until  firm,  without  stirring.  Add  re- 
mainder of  cheese  as  the  omelette  begins  to  thicken.  When  nice- 
ly browned,  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish.  A  little  cheese  may  be  grated 
over  it  before  serving. — Mrs.  A,  A.  Alton,  Glen  View,  111. 

CHICKEN  OR  TONGUE  OMELETTE.— Mince  quite  fine 
1  cup  of  chicken  or  tongue  in  1  teacup  of  cream  or  milk,  mix  and 
warm  1  tablespoon  of  flour.     Make  a  plain  omelette  and  spread  on 


42  EGGS 

this  mixture  just  before  folding  it  over.  This  is  better  than 
using  the  dry,  minced  chicken  or  omelette. — ^Mrs.  A.  L.  Farrell, 
Bensen,  111. 

CREAMY  OMELETTE.— Beat  number  of  eggs  desired  light- 
ly with  a  spoon  until  you  can  take  up  a  spoonful.  Add  a  scant 
yi  teaspoon  of  salt,  J^  a  saltspoon  of  pepper,  4  tablespoons  of 
milk  or  cream,  and  mix  well.  Butter  a  hot  omelette  pan,  and 
before  the  butter  browns,  turn  in  the  mixture.  Then,  with  the 
point  of  a  fork,  pick  or  lift  up  the  cooked  egg  from  the  center  and 
let  the  uncooked  egg  run  under.  This  leaves  the  butter  on  the 
pan,  and  is  better  than  stirring.  Continue  the  lifting  until  the 
whole  fe  of  a  soft,  creamy  consistency,  then  place  it  over  a  hotter' 
part  of  the  fire  to  brown  slightly,  fold,  and  turn  out  as  usual. — 
Mrs.  Ben  Dunn,  Palatine,  111. 

CORN  OMELETTE.— 4  eggs,  ^  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon 
of  butter.  Beat  4  eggs,  and  add  to  them  salt,  pepper,  J/^  cup  milk, 
and  1  pt.  of  cold  boiled  corn.  Fry  like  a  plain  omelette. — Mrs. 
Frank  Darling,  Kenilworth,  111. 

OMELETTE  WITH  DATES.— Beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth;  beat  3  yolks  and  add  juice  of  H  lemon  and  3  table- 
spoons of  powdered  sugar,  fold  in  the  whites  carefully  and  add  12 
dates.  iHave  a  baking  dish  well  buttered,  turn  the  omelette  in 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  till  a  golden  brown.  Serve  at  once. — 
E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetk^,  111. 

FANCY  OMELETTE.— Add  either  a  little  fine  herb  season- 
ing, a  little  chopped  parsley,  a  little  mace  to  the  pepper  and  salt, 
some  fine  minced  ham  with  a  bit  of  chopped  onion,  chopped  toma- 
toes— in  which  case  ibeat  a  tablespoon  of  flour  with  butter  and 
cream  and  use  perhaps,  3  moderate  sized  tomatoes,  or  any  other 
mixture  desired,  to  the  beaten  yolks,  and  then  add  the  stiff  whites. 
This  is  often  a  good  way  to  use  left-overs  in  small  quantities. — 
Mrs.  Fay  Fadden,  Bartlett,  111. 

FISH  OMELETTE.— Add  a  cup  of  any  kind  of  cold  fish, 
flaked  fine,  cream  enough  to  moisten  it,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Make  a  plain  omelette  and  spread 
in  the  fish  mixture  just  before  folding. — ^Miss  F.  Farley,  Willi- 
mctte,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  43 

VARIATION  I.— Boil  a  shad  roc  20  minutes  in  salt  water. 
Chop  it  fine  and  add  salt  to  it,  a  cup  of  any  kind  of  cold  fish 
broken  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  warm  it  in  a  cup  of 
cream  sauce.  Make  a  plain  omelette  with  6  eggs.  When  ready 
to  fold,  spread  the  prepared  fish  on  it.  Roll  up,  dish,  and  serve 
immediately. — Mrs.  C.  D.  Ellis,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

FRENCH  OMELETTE.— Scour  a  medium  sized  omelette  pan 
with  salt  to  make  sure  it  is  smooth.  Put  3  teaspoons  butter  in 
and  stand  where  the  butter  will  soften  but  not  melt.  Break  3 
eggs  into  a  bowl,  and  beat  them  with  a  fork  just  enough  to  mix 
them  without  making  them  foamy,  then  stir  in  3  tablespoons  hot 
water.  Stand  the  platter  where  it  will  heat,  and  have  the  salt  and 
pepper  shakers  and  a  broad-blade,  flexible  knife  at  hand.  Move 
♦the  omelette  pan  toward  the  fire,  and  melt  the  butter  enough  to 
let  it  run  over  the  bottom  and'  sides.  Pour  in  3  eggs  and  stand 
where  the  mixture  will  cook  very  slowly.  When  it  begins  to  set 
at  the  bottom,  run  the  knife  under  from  each  side  and  let  the  tap 
liquid  part  run  under.  Continue  this  until  no  more  will  run  un- 
der, then  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  it  up  and  turn  out  on  the 
hot  platter,  and  serve  at  once.  The  secret  of  success  here  is  slow 
cooking,  so  that  the  tgg  is  jellied  instead  of  toughened.  It  is  dif- 
ficult for  most  people  to  handle  any  more  than  3  eggs  at  a  time, 
so  that  it  is  not  easy  to  provide  a  large  family  with  French  Ome- 
lette. In  such  case,  it  is  wiser  to  take  the  same  ingredients,  cook 
in  the  same  way  until  it  begins  to  set  on  the  bottom,  then  keep 
scraping  it  off  the  bottom  until  the  whole  is  thickened,  and  turn 
out  a  dish  of  scrambled  eggs. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

f 

VARIATION  I. — Scald  ^  pt.  sweet  milk  and  pour  over  cup 

grated  bread  crumbs,  then  add  1  onion  and  3  well  beaten  eggs,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper;  fry  in  a  well  buttered  pan,  and  roll.  Gar- 
nish with  lettuce  or  parsley,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Geo.  F.  Brady, 
Mayfair,  111. 

HAM  OMELETTE.— Make  a  plain  omelette,  and  when  it  ber 
gins  to  thicken,  scatter  a  cup  of  finely  chopped  ham.  Fold  and 
serve.  The  ham  may  be  scattered  over  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and 
heated  in  the  butter  before  pouring  omelette  in,  if  desired.  The 
quantity  of  ham  may   be  lessened  or  increased  according  to  thf 


44  EGGS 

size  of  the  omelette  and  the  taste. — Mrs.  Emmet  Edmonds,  Glen- 
coe,  111. 

OMELETTE  AUX  FINES  HERBES.— Chop  finely,  parsley, 
thyme,  summer  savoy,  chives  or  any  green  herbs  you  fancy. 
Make  2  tablespoons  in  all,  season  with  paprika  and  celery  salt. 
Make  an  omelette  in  the  usual  way,  pour  into  the  pan,  and  before 
it  forms,  sprinkle  the  herbs  over  the  surface,  stirring  gently  to 
mix  them.  Cook  them  as  you  would  a  plain  omelette.  A  parsley 
omelette  is  made  according  to  this  recipe,  using  no  herbs  except 
parsley. — ^^Mrs.  John  Adkins.  Wheeling,  111. 

JAM  OMELETTE.— Make  as  a  plain  omelette  of  6  eggs, 
omitting  the  pepper,  lay  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  over  with  apricot 
jam,  roll  up,  and  sift  over  with  sugar,  warmed  apricot  juice  should 
be  poured  around.  Time  5  or  6  minutes.  Enough  for  5  people. 
It  is  quickly  made  if  in  a  hurry. — Mrs.  Almond  Case,  Palatine,  111. 
111. 

JELLY  OMELETTE.— Make  a  plain  omelette,  and  just  be- 
fore folding,  spread  with  any  kind  of  jelly  (currant  or  grape  is 
best).  Fold  quickly,  and  serve.  Melted  jelly  poured  around  it 
after  folding  is  an  improvement. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Adams,  Franklin,  111. 

OMELETTE  AU  LARD.— Cut  up  in  the  shape  of  dice  a  V2  cup 
of  pork.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  in  a  frying 
pan,  and  when  it  is  hot,  fry  the  pork  in  it.  When  quite  crisp,  add 
6  well-beaten  eggs  and  pepper.  Finish  as  an  ordinary  omelette. — 
Mrs.  Julius  Casper,  Wheeling,  111. 

OMELETTE  AU  FROMAGE.— Prepare  as  for  plain  ome- 
lette, and  beat  some  grated  cheese  with  the  eggs. — ^Mrs.  B.  Reeves, 
Palatine,  111. 

LEFT-OVER  OMELETTE.— Any  cold  meat,  fish,  fowl,  or 
vegetables  may  be  used  up  in  this  manner.  Free  it  from  the  skin, 
gristle  and  fat;  mince  it  or  pound  it  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar.  Use 
1  taiblespoon  of  meat  to  every  4  eggs;  toss  it  in  a  buttered  frying 
pan  over  a  good  fire  till  it  begins  to  brown.  Either  pour  the 
beaten  eggs  upon  it  or  beat  it  in  with  the  eggs,  or  spread  it  upon 
them  after  they  have  begun  to  set  in  the  pan.  Serve  hot,  with  or 
without  a  sauce,  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  crisp  herbs,  pickles,  or 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  45 

lemon  slices.  In  beating  the  eggs,  a  little  milk  gravy,  white  wine 
or  water,  may  be  added  with  advantage.  Left-over  eggs  prepared 
in  any  style,  may  be  worked  in  this  omelette. — Mrs.  Mary  Carpen- 
ter, Des  Plaines,  111. 

LITTLE  OMELETTE.— When  the  family  come  irregularly 
to  breakfast,  prepare  your  omelette  preparation,  and  let  it  stand. 
When  one  person  is  ready  to  be  served,  beat  up  again,  thoroughly, 
and  fry  a  spoonful  at  a  time  on  a  hot  frying  pan  or  a  well  buttered 
pancake  griddle.  Roll  each  omelette  quickly  and  serve. — Mrs. 
Frank  Cress,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

MACAROON  OMELETTE.— Roll  6  macaroons  and  mix  with 
6  oz.  pulverized  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  then  add  the 
sugar  and  macaroons.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  a 
little  at  a  time.  Melt  4  oz.  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  turn  in 
the  mixture.  Brown  lightly  on  both-  sides  and  turn  in  the  oven 
instead  of  frying,  if  desired.  Sift  white  sugar  over  and  serve 
immediately. — ^Mrs.  Ralph  Charters,  Park  Rid^ge,  111. 

MEAT  OMELETTE.— Make  a  iplain  omelette  with  4  eggs. 
Chop  fine  left-over  cold  meat  of  any  kind,  game,  poultry  or  fish; 
put  the  meat  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  little  butter  and  stir  until  it 
begins  to  brown  or  is  heated  through;  add  1  tablespoon  of  the 
meat  to  the  omelette  just  as  it  is  folded  over. — Mabel  Sturtevant, 
105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

MUSHROOM  OMELETTE.— Drain  1  pt.  of  fresh  mush- 
rooms; heat  1  taiblespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  rub  .smooth 
with  1  tablespoon  of  flour;  add  1  cup  cream  and  boil  2  minutes. 
Stir  in  the  mushrooms,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  heat  thor- 
oughly. Remove  from  fire  and  mix  in  yolk  of  1  egg  beaten  with 
1  tablespoon  of  sherry  wine.  Make  a  plain  omelette  with  4  or  6 
eggs  and  when  "set"  put  mushrooms  over  it  and  fold.  Serve  on 
a  hot  dish  with  the  mushroom  sauce  poured  over. — Mrs.  Edith 
Fairchild,  Glen  View,  111. 

BAKED  MUSHROOM  OMELETTE.— Pull  and  cut  into 
quarters  a  dozen  fresh  mushrooms,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan 
■with  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice.     Cover  the  pan  and  simmer  slowly  10  min- 


46  EGGS 

utes.  Add  1  cup  of  thickened  chicken  or  veal  stock,  and  cook 
slowly  10  minutes  longer.  Then  stir  in  6  eggs,  well  beaten,  turn 
into  a  buttered  bake  dish,  sift  browned  crumbs  over  the  top,  and 
set  upon  the  upper  grating  of  a  quick  oven  until  the  eggs  are 
"set."  Five  minutes  should  be  enough.  Serve  at  once  in  the  bake 
dish. — ^Mrs.  H.  A.  Sherman,  Palatine,  111. 

ONION  OMELETTE.— Make  a  plain  omelette,  and  when  it 
is  cooked  ready  to  turn,  spread  over  it  1  tablespoon  of  chopped 
onions  and  1  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley,  mixed,  or  the  green 
part  of  an  onion  finely  chopped.  Fold  and  serve.  The  mixture 
may  be  stirred  into  the  beaten  tgg  if  preferred. — Mrs.  C.  E.  West- 
inghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

ORANGE  OMELETTE.— 2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  a 
few  grams  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  2  oranges,  H  table- 
spoon butter,  2}/i  tablespoons  of  orange  juice.  As  many  eggs  as 
required.  Prepare  a  plain  omelette,  add  1/3  of  the  oranges  cut 
in  slices  lengthwise  and  sprinkled  well  with  powdered  sugar.  Turn 
on  a  frying  pan,  and  serve  on  a  dish  with  remaining  slices  of 
oranges  around  omelette,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. — Mrs.  C.  C. 
Cleveland,  Bartlett,  111. 

OYSTER  OMELETTE.— Chop  a  dozen  oysters  into  tiny 
bits.  Stir  together  over  the  fire  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  and  1 
of  flour.  When  smooth  and  bubbling,  draw  to  the  side  of  the 
range,  and  add,  gradually,  3  tablespoons  of  cream  (with  a  pinch 
of  soda),  and  the  same  quantity  of  strained  oyster  liquor.  Set 
back  over  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  boils.  Season  with  paprika  and 
salt.  Add  the  chopped  oysters  and  again  bring  to  a  boiir  Set  in 
boiling  water  while  you  make  the  omelette.  When  this  is  ready 
to  fold  over  cook  with  the  cooked  oysters,  fold,  and  turn  out  upon 
a  very  hot  dish.  Clam  omelette  is  made  the  same  way. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

OYSTER,  MUSSEL  OR  CLAM  OMELETTE.— Boil  for  2 
minutes  in  their  own  juice,  4  large  oysters  or  a  dozen  mussels  or 
clams.  Strain  well,  chop  fine,  and  add  to  the  omelette  in  the  same 
way  as  indicated  for  vegetable  omelette. — Mrs.  Ernest  D.  Dean, 
Glen  View,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  47 

POOR  MAN'S  OMELETTE.— 2  eggs  separately  beaten.  Add 
tablespoon  flour  to  yolks,  ^  cup  of  milk,  and  pinch  of  salt.  Beat 
whites  until  so  stiff  you  can  tip* dish  upside  down,  pour  yolk  mix- 
ture into  whites,  stir  gently,  put  tablespoon  butter  into  saucepan, 
and  just  melt  (not  brown),  put  in  the  mixture,  and  let  cook  over 
not  too  hot  a  fire.  When  it  starts  to  bubble  around  the  outside  of 
pan  put  in  hot  oven.  For  4  people.  Can  double  over  when  taken 
out  or  leave  round. — Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  111. 

POTATO  OMELETTE.— Remove  the  pulp  from  freshly 
baked  potato,  rub  it  through  a  wide  sieve,  and  carefully  mix  it 
with  the  beaten  yolk  of  3  eggs,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  salt 
and  pepper.  Just  before  putting  over  the  fire,  stir  in  the  stiffly 
whipped  whites  of  3  eggs,  heat  1^  oz.  butter  in  an  omelette  pan, 
and  cook  until  light  brown  underneath;  then  brown  before  an  open 
fire  or  in  a  hot  oven;  then  turn  it  on  a  paper  sprinkled  over  with  a 
little  chopped  parsley,  fold  and  serve. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Boles,  Wheel- 
ing, 111. 

OMELETTE  A  LA  POULARD.— Melt  a  teaspoon  of  butter 
in  an  omelette  pan  over  a  clear  moderate  fire,  and  when  warm 
pour  in  5  well  beaten  eggs  and  season  with  salt.  Let  the  eggs  set, 
then  shake  it  gently  and  continually  to  prevent  sticking.  When 
the  surface  begins  to  set,  slide  it  on  a  hot  dish  and  fold  it  in  half. 
Sprinkled  sifted  sugar  over  it  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jef- 
fries, Winnetka,  111. 

QUAKER  OMELETTE.— 3  eggs,  2  small  tablespoons  flour, 
y^  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  butter,  Yi,  cup  mill^  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  together  thoroughly  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
flour,  and  salt,  add  the  whites  beaten  thoroughly,  and  add  the 
milk.  Place  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  let  it  melt,  but  not  burn.  Put 
in  the  omelette,  and  cook  7  minutes. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

RICE  OMELETTE.— Follow  directions  for  making  a  plain 
omelette,  stirring  cold  boiled  rice  into  eggs  before  cooking  them, 
allowing  1  teaspoonful  of  rice  for  each  t^^.  If  desired  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice  may  be  added  with  the  rice. — Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


48  EGGS 

RICH  OMELETTE.— 25^  tablespoons  of  flour,  H  teaspoons 
of  salt,  1  cup  of  milk,  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  as  many  eggs  as 
desired.  Mix  salt  and  flour  and  add  the  milk  gradually.  Beat 
eggs  and  flour  until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  then  add  to  the 
first  mixture.  Heat  iron  frying  pan,  and  put  in  2/3  of  the  butter; 
when  butter  is  melted,  pour  in  mixture  as  it  cooks,  lift  with  a  grid- 
dle cake  turner  so  that  the  uncooked  part  may  run  underneath; 
add  remaining  butter  as  needed  andi  continue  lifting  the  uncooked 
part  until  it  is  firm  throughout.  Place  on  hotter  part  of  range  to 
brown;  roll  and  turn  on  hot  plate. — Mrs.  Alex.  Drexel,  Park 
Ridge,  111. 

ROBESPIERRE  OMELETTE.— 3  tablespoons  of  hot  water, 
1  tablespoon  of  salt,  teaspoon  sugar,  1/3  teaspoon  of  salt,  ^  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Number  of  eggs  desired.  Make  a  plain  omelette,  add 
remaining  ingredients,  turn  into  a  hot  omelette  pan,  turn  in  mix- 
ture and  cook.  Fold,  turn  on  a  hot  platter,  sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  score  with  a  hot  poker. — Mrs.  Tom  Bell,  Bart- 
lett,  111. 

RUM  OMELETTE.— Put  a  little  fresh  lard  in  an  omelette 
pan  and  heat.  Be  careful  that  it  does  not  'burn  or  the  color  of  the 
omelette  will  be  spoiled.  Whisk  3  eggs  thoroughly  until  they 
are  very  light.  Beat  in  1  teaspoon  of  milk,  and  beat  continuously 
until  the  pan  is  hot  and  ready  over  the  hot  fire.  Pour  in,  and  as 
soon  as  the  omelette  is  set,  remove  it  from  the  hottest -part  of  the 
fire,  slip  a  knife  under  it  to  prevent  it  from  sticking.  When  the 
center  is  almost  firm,  tip  the  pan,  and  work  the  omelette  loose  so 
that  it  will  fold  easily  and  neatly  and  then  turn  it  carefully  out  on 
a  hot  platter.  Dust  powdered  sugar  over  it  very  generously  and 
with  a  hot  iron  rod,  singe  the  sugar  in  stripes.  Pour  a  glass  of 
Jamaica  rum  around  it,  and  when  the  omelette  is  on  the  table,  set 
fire  to  the  rum.  Dip  the  burning  rum  over  the  omelette  with  a 
spoon,  extinguishing  the  flame,  and  serve.  As  salt  mixed  with 
eggs  prevents  them  from  rising  but  is  very  necessary  to  the  taste, 
add  a  little  to  the  omelette  just  before  folding. — Mrs.  Martha  Bar- 
ber, Mayfair,  111. 

SAVOURY  OMELETTE.— This  is  really  very  easy  to  make, 
though  many  people  are  under  the  impression  that  it  is  a  difficult 
matter.     Beat  2  fresh  eggs  very  light.     Have  tablespoon   of  lean 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  49 

cooked  ham,  and  a  teaspoon  of  parsley  chopped  very  fine.  Add 
these  to  the  beaten  eggs.  Heat  an  oz.  of  butter  in  a  small  frying 
pan,  put  in  the  mixture,  and  as  it  sets  to  the  sides  of  the  pan, 
scrape  it  towards  the  handle  of  the  pan  until 'only  J/^  the  pan  is 
covered.  Brown  it  underneath,  slip  it  from  the  pan  on  to  a  ihot 
dish,  and  serve  immediately.  Time  to  cook,  about  3  minutes,  hav- 
ing a  clear  fire.  Do  not  use  an  enameled  pan  for  omelettes. — 
Mrs.  T.  R.  Barker,  Kenilworth,  111. 

SHRIMP  OMELETTE.— Add  to  a  plain  omelette,  some 
shrimps,  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  if  they  are  large,  and  when  ome- 
lette is  ready  to  turn,  sprinkle  shrimps  over  the  top. — Mrs.  Chris. 
Anderson,  Kenilworth,  111. 

SPANISH  OMELETTE.— 1  onion,  ^  saltspoon  of  salt,  6 
tablespoons  of  water,  ^  lb.  of  bacon.  Cut  the  bacon  into  very 
thin  slices,  put  into  a  frying  pan,  add  a  Yz  cup  of  water,  cook  until 
the  water  evaporates;  then  fry  the  ibacon  carefully.  Remove  the 
crisp  bacon,  add  the  onion,  chopped  fine;  cook  on  the  back  part 
of  the  stove  for  15  minutes.  Break  the  ^^^  into  a  bowl;  beat  until 
mixed;  add  the  water,  salt,  and  pepper,  ©raw  the  pan  with  the 
onions  over  the  fire;  when  hot,  turn  in  the  egg;  shake  and  lift, 
drawing  the  soft  part  underneath  until  the  omelette  is  "set."  Fold 
and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Jane  Andrews,  Mayfair,  111. 

OMELETTE  SOUFFLE.— Allow  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  or  vanilla  for  flavoring,  and  the 
whites  to  each  yolk.  Beat  the  whites  very  stiff,  and  fold  them 
into  the  beaten  yolks.  Put  a  ta'blespoon  into  a  well-buttered 
baking  dish,  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  about  12  minutes,  or  till 
well  puffed  up  and  a  straw  comes  out  clean.  Serve  at  once  as  it 
falls  quickly. — Mrs.  Edward  Abbott,  Palatine,  111. 

SWEETBREAD  OMELETTE.— Parboil  sweetbreads,  pick 
them  apart,  and  put  into  a  cream  sauce.  Make  a  plain  omelette, 
fold  over,  and'  turn  it  out  on  a  heated  dish.  Pour  the  sauce  over 
it,  and  send  at  once  to  the  table. — Mrs.  Ed.  Barnes,  Bartlett,  111. 

TRUFFLES  OMELETTE.— Make  a  plain  omelette;  slice 
truffles  and  heat  them  in  butter  and  white  sauce.  When  the  ome- 
lette is  ready  to  fold  place  the  truffles  on  it,  fold,  and  serve  imme- 
diately.— ^^Mrs.  John  Barr,  Mayfair,  111. 


50  EGGS 

OMELETTE  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE.— Make  a  sauce  by 
cooking  in  a  saucepan,  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  1  of  flour,  and 
when  they  bubble,  pouring  over  them  a  cup  of  strained  and  sea- 
soned tomato  juice.  Keep  the  sauce  hot  while  you  make  a  plain 
omelette,  dish  it,  and  after  it  is  on  the  platter,  pour  tomato  sauce 
over  and  around  it.  Allow  1  cup  of  tomato  sauce  for  each  of  3 
eggs,  cream  sauce  plain  or  containing*  cold  chicken  or  ham,  or 
the  same  amount  of  cooked  green  peas  or  mushroms  or  any  other 
left-over  vegetable  may  be  used. — Mrs.  Wm.  Barton,  Park  Ridge, 
111. 

OMELETTE  WITH  WHEAT— GERM  MEAL,  WHEAT- 
LET,  CREAM  OR  WHEAT,  ETC.— Into  VA  cups  of  boiling  wa- 
ter, to  which  ^  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt  has  been  added,  stir  2  table- 
spoons of  wheat  germ  meal.  Stir  and  cook  over  the  fire  3  or  4 
minutes,  then  cook  over  hot  water  until  ready  to  use.  Beat  5  eggs 
until  a  spoonful  of  mixture  can  be  lifted,  add  a  few  grains  of  pep- 
per and  salt  and  beat  the  eggs  into  the  cooked  meal.  Turn,  into  a 
hot  frying  pan,  buttered,  and  cook  as  a  French  omelette.  Or, 
beat  the  white  and  yolks  separately,  then  beat  the  yolks  into  the 
whites,  and  cook  as  a  puffy  omelette. — Mrs.  John  Masters,  Park 
Ridge.  II]. 

EGGS  AND  ONIONS  (Chafing  Dish  Recipe).— Put  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg  in  the  chafing  dish  or  pan  and  let  it  melt;  add  ^ 
teaspoon  of  chopped  onion  and  cook  5  minutes;  add  4  tablespoons 
of  cheese,  and  when  it  is  melted  put  in  6  well-^beaten  eggs,  salt, 
pepper  and  tabasco  to  taste.  Stir  constantly  until  the  eggs  are 
cooked  and  serve  on  buttered  toast. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Cleveland,  Bart- 
lett.  111. 

ONION  EGGS.— Slice  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  white  and  yellow 
together,  fry  3  sliced  onions  in  butter,  lay  them  on  a  platter. 
Place  the  sliced  eggs  over  them,  cover,  grate  S  other  hard-boiled 
eggs,  mix  with  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  in  a  little 
cream  and  pour  this  over  the  eggs  and  onions. — Mrs,  C.  J.  Jef- 
ries,  Winnetka,  111. 


^ 


OX-EYES. — Take  slices  of  bread  an  inch  thick  from  good 
light  bread  and  cut  rounds  with  a  3  inch  cutter,  cut  a  small  ring 
ly2  inches  and  scoop  out  enough  to  take  in  an  egg;  brush  with 
butter  and  crisp  in  a  quick  oven.     Break  a  fresh  egg  in  each,  se«- 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  ^1 

son  with  salt  and  pepper,  moisten  with  1  tablespoon  of  cream  and 
put  in  oven  till  set.  These  may  be  filled  with  scrambled  eggs  and 
they  are  then  called  scrambled  eggs  in  cups. — Mrs.  C.  E.  West- 
inghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  PARISIENNE  (Moulded  Eggs).— Sprinkle  the 
inside  of  buttered  moulds  with  finely  chopped  parsley.  Break  an 
egg  into  each  mould,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  set  on  a  folded 
paper  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  let  poach,  covered,  on  the  top 
of  the  range,  or  in  the  oven,  as  convenient,  until  the  eggs  are  firm, 
then  turn  from  the  moulds  on  to  a  hot  serving  dish.  Have  ready 
a  can  of  tomatoes  that  have  been  cooked  15  minutes  with  a  slice 
of  onion  and  passed  through  a  sieve;  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  re-heat  with  a  cup  of  canned  mushrooms,  or  let  simmer  10 
minutes  with  a  cup  of  fresh  mushrooms  peeled  and  sauted  in  2 
tablespoons  of  butter.  Pour  the  tomatoes  and  mushrooms  about 
the  eggs  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Sherman,  Palatine,  111. 

PARMESAN  EGGS.— Grate  2  oz.  of  parmesan  cheese  into  a 
saucepan,  add  1  sprig  of  onion  chopped,  and  2  tablespoons  of 
sherry  wine;  stir  until  cheese  is  melted.  Add  6  eggs  beaten  to- 
gether, stir  over  a  slow  fire  until  done,  spread  on  thin  slices,  of 
hot  toast.  Serve  immediately. — Mrs.  Edith  Fairchild,  Glen  View, 
111. 

■  PARISIAN  EGGS. — Make  square  cases  of  heavy  letter  paper 
and  butter,  but  in  each  case  a  bit  of  butter,  a  dash  of  onion  or 
parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  Place  upon  gridiron  over  a  moderate 
fire.  When  butter  melts,  break  1  egg  in  each  case,  sprinkle  bread 
crumbs  on  top,  glaze  with  a  hot  shovel.  Serve  at  once  in  the. 
case. — Mrs.  Ralph  Charters,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

PARSLEY  EGGS. — Poach  number  of  eggs  desired,  place  on 
slices  of  buttered  toast  and  pour  over  a  sauce  made  with  1  cup  of 
sweet  cream  or  rich  milk,  1  sprig  of  parsley  chopped  fine,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  1  teaspoon  of  flour,  mixed  smoothly  together 
and  boiled  until  thickened. — Mrs.  Chas.  Johnston,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

EGG  PASTEL.— Beat  6  eggs,   add  3   tablespoons   of   cheese 
and  1   of  butter  and  mix  well  together.     Warm  the  mixture  in  a' 
stew-pan  over  a  gentle  fire  and  stir  until  it  is  thick.     Serve  on 
buttered  toast. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 


52  EGGS 

PICNIC  EGGS. — Cut  6  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise. 
Remove  yolks  and  chop  fine  with  cold  chicken  or  cheese,  season 
with  butter  and  rub  smooth.  Fill  white  of  egg,  then  press  halves 
together.  Roll  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  fry  in  hot  fat 
a  chestnut  brown.  Serve  cold. — Mrs.  Frank  Cress,  Park  Ridge, 
111. 

EGG  PIE. — Cut  in  rings  6  hard-boiled  eggs  and  put  in  a  bak- 
ing dish  with  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs,  butter,  salt  and 
pepper.  Beat  l^  doz.  eggs,  and  1  pt.  milk  and  pour  over  the  pic. 
Bake  till  eggs  are  congealed. — Mrs.  Mary  Carpenter,  Des  Plaines, 
111. 

PICKLED  EGGS.— Rub  together  H  teaspoon  mustard  with 
a  little  cold  vinegar;  let  1  pt.  of  vinegar  come  to  a  boil,  add  the 
spice  and  cook  1  minute.  Pour  over  6  hard-boiled  eggs  with 
whole  clove  in  each. — ^Mrs.  B.  Reeves,  Palatine,  111. 

PLANKED-  EGGS.— 2/3  cup  finely  cooked  cold  corned  beef 
or  corned  tongue.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of  fine  bread  crumbs, 
moisten  with  cream  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  make 
nests  and  border  of  duchess  potatoes,  using  a  pastry  tube  with 
rose  tip.  Put  a  buttered  or  poached  egg  in  each  nest,  and  put  in 
the  oven  to  brown  potato.  Garnish  with  tomatoes  cut  in  halves, 
and  with  parsley.  Eggs  may  be  sprinkled  with  buttered  cracker 
crumbs  just  before  sending  to  oven,  if  desired. — ^Mrs.  C.  F.  Adams, 
Franklin,  111. 

EGGS  ON  A  PLATE.— Rub  the  (bottom  of  a  stoneware  plat- 
ter with  butter,  dust  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Then  break 
over  the  top  of  the  dish  6  fresh  eggs;  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt 
and  pepper;  put  bits  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hazel  nut  between 
each  egg,  and  stand  the  dish  over  a  basin  of  hot  water.  Cook  in 
the  oven  about  5  minutes  or  until  the  eggs  are  set.  If  you  hare 
a  gas  stove  run  them  under  the  flame  for  just  a  moment  to  brown 
the  surface. — Mrs.  John  Adams,  Wheeling,  111. 

EGGS  SUR  LA  PLATTE.— Little  stone  dishes  come  express- 
ly for  this  mode  of  serving  eggs,  but  individual  vegetable  dishes 
or  teacups  which  have  lost  their  handles  will  answer  the  purpose. 
Heat  and  butter  as  many  dishes  as  there  are  persons  to  be  served 
and  sprinkle  in  pepper  and  salt.     Break  an  egg  in  each  one,  sprin- 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  53 

kle  on  a  little  more  pepper  and  salt  and  put  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
on  each  one  in  bits.  Cream  may  be  poured  over  if  liked.  Place 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven  about  5  minutes  or  until  white  is  set. 
The  flavor  can  be  changed  by  sprinkling  a  little  finely  chopped 
ham  or  parsley  on  the  plate  before  putting  in  the  eggs. — Mrs.  Al- 
mond Case,  Palatine,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS. — Eggs  for  this  purpose  are  best  when  two 
days  old.  The  whites  of  new-laid  eggs  are  milky,  easily  dissolved, 
and  separated  in  water,  but  on  the  other  hand,  if  too  stale,  the 
cell  walls  do  not  remain  firm.  Brush  the  bottom  of  an  iron  frying 
pan  with  butter  or  oil,  then  partly  fill  with  iDoiling  water,  adding 
salt  or  a  little  lemon  juice  or  vinegar;  break  the  eggs,  one  after 
another  into  a  cup  and  turn  them  into  the  water,  which  should 
not  iboil  or  even  simmer.  The  top  of  the  yolk  should 
slightly  emerge  from  the  water;  if  the  yolk  be  covered,  carefully 
dip  out  some  of  the  water;  if  too  much  is  visible,  add  more,  very 
carefully,  so  as  not  to  disturb  the  eggs.  Let  stand  till  the  egg  is 
cooked  to  the  proper  consistency.  When  cooked  to  perfection, 
the  egg  throughout  is  jelly-like,  the  golden  brown  just  showing 
through  a  transparent  veil  of  white.  Then  remove  with  a  skim- 
mer, and  arrange  on  slices  of  toasted  bread.  Add  a  few  bits  of 
water-cress  or  parsley  to  complete  the  dish.  Celery  salt  gives  a 
pleasant  flavor  to  poached  eggs,  and  some  people  relish  a  drop 
of  onion  juice  on  each.— iMabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Break  the  eggs  separately  into  a  cup,  let 
them  slide  gently  into  boiling  water;  take  them  out.  May  be 
served  on  hot  buttered  toast  or  plain.  They  are  often  convenient- 
ly poached  in  a  frying-pan.  When  poached  in  quantities,  they 
are  apt  to  run  together.  A  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar 
in  the  water  keeps  the  whites  from  spreading. — Mrs.  P.  F.  Mc- 
Laren, Mayfair,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Put  as  much  milk  in  a  saucepan  as  will 
just  cover  the  number  of  eggs  needed;  when  on  the  point  of  boil- 
ing, drop  the  eggs,  and  let  cook  5  minutes;  take  out  and  put  each 
tgg  on  a  slice  of  freshly  made  toast,  lightly  buttered;  thickea 
the  milk  with  a  little  flour,  add  pepper  and  salt.    Pour  over  toait 


54  EGGS 

and  serve  hot.  Chicken  stock  is  exceedingly  nice  for  poaching 
eggs  this  way. — Mrs.  Martin  Miller,  Wheeling,  111. 

POACHED     EGGS     WITH     ANCHOVY     TOAST.— Toast 

rounds  of  bread,  spread  with  anchovy  paste  and  place  a  poached 
tgg  on  top  of  each  round. — ^Mrs.  Edith  Mosely,  Palatine,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS  ON  BEANS  OR  PEAS.— Mash  left-over 
baked  beans  or  peas  and  season  to  taste,  form  into  balls  or  patties. 
Set  in  oven  to  heat  through,  or  may  be  used  cold.  Poach  eggs 
and  place  on  the  patties  and  serve. — E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS  WITH  CREAMED  CELERY.— Arrange 

poached  eggs  in  a  circle  on  rounds  of  hot  buttered  toast;  fill  in  the 
center  of  the  circle  with  a  pt.  of  celery,  cut  into  inch  lengths  and 
cooked  about  2  hrs.  in  boiling  water,  then  stirred  with  1^  cups  of 
cream  sauce  made  of  J^  water  in  which  celery  was  cooked  and  ^ 
cream  or  milk  with  a  lump  of  butter  added. — Mrs.  John  Masteri, 
Park  Ridge,  III.  -  ' 

POACHED  EGGS  ON  CEREAL.— Any  left-over  cereal  or 
meal  mush,  porridge,  cream  of  wheat  may  be  sliced  when  cold  or 
made  into  patties  and  fried  until  nicely  browned  in  butter,  lard  or 
vegetable  oil  and  served  with  a  poached  egg  on  each  one. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS  ON  CHEESE.— Make  patties  of  bread  or 
cracker  crumibs  moistened  with  milk  and  yolk  of  eggs,  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Sprinkle  1  teaspoon  of  cheese  on  each  ball 
and  set  in  the  oven  until  cheese  has  melted.  Serve  with  a  poached 
egg  on  each  ball.  The  cheese  may  be  placed  on  slices  of  bread 
and  set  in  oven  to  melt  cheese  and  toast  bread. — Mabel  Sturte- 
vant, 105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

EGGS  POACHED  IN  CONSOMME.— Use  consomme  or  any 
other  soup  stock  instead  of  water  and  poach  1  or  2  eggs  at  a  time; 
thicken  the  consomme,  adding  a  few  spoons  of  cream,  and  pour 
around  or  over  the  eggs,  arranged  on  slices  of  toast. — Mrs.  Wm, 
Barton,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS  IN  CREAM.-^For  3  or  4  persons  take  6 
absolutely  fresh  eggs,  ^  pt.  rich  new  cream,  1  teaspoon  of  butter, 
I  small  teaspoon  of  flour,  ^s  much  pepper  ^s  can  be  held  on  th^ 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  55 

point  of  a  knife  and  a  saltspoon  of  salt.  Heat  the  cream  in  the 
chafing  dish;  rub  the  flour  together  and  stir  in  and  then  add  the 
seasoning.  When  the  cream  reaches  the  boiling  point,  slip  the 
eggs  carefully  in  and  dip  some  of  the  cream  over  each.  In  2  or  3 
minutes  serve  with  thin  buttered  toast  or  toasted  wafers. — Mrs. 
John  Barr,  Mayfair,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS,  CREOLE  STYLE.— 1  can  tomatoes,  1 
green  pepper,  shredded,  5  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Stew  1  can  of 
tomatoes  and  s'hredded  green  pepper  until  the  tomato  is  reduced 
one  half;  turn  on  to  a  serving  dish,  arrange  on  the  tomato  S 
rounds  of  toast,  and  upon  each  of  these  a  poached  egg.  Melt  and 
brow'n  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice 
or  vinegar,  and  when  the  liquid  boils,  pour  the  sauce  over  the 
eggs;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Ed. 
Barnes,  Bartlett,  111. 

COUNTESS  POACHED  EGGS.— Fill  puff  paste  patties  with 
asparagus  tips,  cooked  and  well  buttered;  cover  with  a  poached 
egg  and  surround  with  cream  or  HoUandaise  sauce.  If  the  cream 
sauce  made  thick  with  puree  of  asparagus,  be  used,  in  the  patties 
with  the  egg  above,  the  dish  becomes  Poached  Eggs  with  cream 
of  Asparagus. — Mrs.  Edward  Abbott,  Palatine,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS   ON   FISH.— Take  any  kind   of  left-oYcr 

fish,  flake  or  chop  it  up  fine,  heat  up  in  a  cream  sauce  and  fill  in 
hollow  toasted  slices  of  bread.  Serve  with  a  poached  egg  on 
each  slice. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Deafborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS  AND  HAM.— Serve  poached  eggs  on  thin 
$lices  of  boiled  or  fried  ham.  They  may  be  served  on  bacon  in 
the  same  manner.  They  are  then  known  as  poached  eggs  and 
bacon. — Jane  Andrews,  Mayfair,  111. 

POACHED  EGG  ON  HASH.— ^Chop  1  onion  fine  and  simmer 
in  oil  and  fat  until  tender,  but  not  brown.  Add  chopped  meat  of 
*ny  kind  and  any  desired  vegetable  and  thicken.  Make  patties  on 
which  serve  poached  eggs.  Any  left-over  meat  may  be  used.— 
Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 


56  EGGS 

POACHED  EGGS  ON  HOMINY.— Mash  well  cooked  hom- 
iny until  it  forms  a  pulp,  make  into  patties  and  fry  a  nice  brown. 
A  teaspoon  of  minced  meat  heated  in  a  little  butter  may  be  sprin- 
kled on  each  one  if  desired.  Serve  with  a  poached  egg  on  top. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Deanborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

HYGIENIC  POACHED  EGGS.— Add  a  few  grains  of  salt 
to  the  white  of  an  egg,  beat  until  dry  and  turn  into  a  buttered 
glass,  or  a  china  'bowl;  forjm  a  nest  on  the  top  for  the  yolk.  Set  the 
glass  on  a  trivet  in  a  curved  dish  of  lukewarm  water  and  let  cook 
until  the  egg  is  set  and  rises  in  the  glass.  Do  not  let  the  water 
boil  round  the  glass. — Mrs.  Chris.  Anderson,  Kenilworth,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS  ON  KIDNEY.— Boil  a  fresh  kidney,  let  it 
get  cold  and  mince  fine.  Heat  a  ^  pt.  of  soup  stock,  and  cook 
together  in  a  frying-pan  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  of  browned 
flour.  On  this  pour  the  hot  soup  stock  and  cook  until  you  have 
a  thick  brown  sauce.  Into  this  turn  the  chopped  tongue  and  stir 
until  smoking  hot.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  of  tomato  catsup,  a 
teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Have  ready  slices  of 
toast  on  a  heated  platter,  pour  the  hot  mixture  over  these;  put  a 
poached  egg  in  the  center  of  each^siice  of  toast,  and  serve. — Mrs. 
May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS  ON  MACARONI.— Take  left-over  maca- 
roni and  form  in  patties  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Sprinkle 
a  little  grated  cheese  over  the  top  and  place  in  a  pudding  pan  and 
set  in  the  oven  to  heat  through  and  brown.  Poach  as  many  eggs 
as  desired  and  serve  on  the  macaroni  in  the  dish  in  which  maca- 
roni was  browned. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

STEAM  POACHED  EGGS  AND  MEAT.— Grease  poaching 
cups  or  ordinary  teacups  with  butter  or  vegetable  oil,  %  teaspoon 
to  the  cup.  Chop  or  mince  up  ham  or  any  left-over  meat,  fowl  or 
wild  game.  Put  a  teaspoonful  or  more  in  each  cup  and  break  in 
egg  carefully.  Set  in  dish  containing  some  water  or  in  a  steamer 
and  steam  2  to  4  minutes.  Serve  on  toast  or  any  other  desired 
base.  Yolks  will  never  break  when  cooked  in  this  manner. — 
E,  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  57 

POACHED  EGGS  ON  MUSH.— Take  any  kind  of  cold  mush 
as  corn,  rye,  barley,  peas,  meal  or  any  of  the  flour  or  meal  mix- 
tures and  slice.  Dip  in  flour  or  tgg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  a 
g-olden  brown.  Place  on  a  hot  platter  and  cover  with  poached 
eggs.  Serve. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 

POACHED^  EGGS  ON  OYSTERS.— 3  oysters  for  each  egg. 
Make  a  cream  sauce  of  oyster  liquor  and  milk,  add  oysters  and 
iill  pufi  paste  cases  or  tart  sliells  or  hollowed  rounds  of  toasted 
bread  with  this  mixture  and  place  a  poached  egg  on  each  one. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111, 

POACHED  EGGS  ON  PARSNIPS.— Mash  parsnips  fine  and 
form  into  ball  with  flour  and  seasoning.  Fry  in  lard,  butter  or 
vegetable  oil  or  set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Put  a  small  piec^  of 
butter  in-  each  one  and  serve  with  poached  eggs  on  top. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS  ON  POTATO  BALLS.— Make  good  sized 
balls  with  left-over  mashed  potatoes  moistened  with  an  egg  stirred 
and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  3  balls  for  every  2  eggs. 
Fry  the  ball  in  deep  fat  and^lace  on  a  hot  platter  where  they 
will  keep  warm.  Poach  eggs  and  place  on  balls;  cream  sauce  or 
brown  butter  sauce  may  be  poured  over  if  desired,  but  very  good 
without. — ^Mrs.  T.   R.   Barker,  Kenihvorth,   111. 

POACHED  EGGS  ON  RICE.— Take  steamed  or  boiled  rice 
and  mix  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  and  a  little  flour;  form 
into  balls  and  fry.  Left-over  meat  may  be  minced  and  mixed  with 
it  if  desired*,  or  warmed  and  sprinkled  over  the  top.  The  rice 
balls  may  be  covered  with  grated  cheese  and  baked  in  the  oven,  if 
preferred.  Serve  with  poached  eggs  on  top. — Mabel  Sturtevant, 
105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS  WITH  CREAMED  SALMON.— Cut  inch 
thick  bread  in  rounds  or  fancy  shapes  with  a  cutter.  Cut  a  line 
around  the  top  of  the  slice  about  half  an  inch  from  the  edge  and 
carefully  remove  the  crumbs  to  form  a  receptacle  with  J^  inch 
walls.  Brush  with  melted  butter  and  brown  in  the  oven  or  fry  in 
deep  fat.  Fill  with  flaked  salmon  wbich  has  been  heated  in  a  cup 
of   hot    cream   sauce.     Dispose   a  poached   egg  above   the   salmon. 


58  ECGS 

Serve  garnished  with  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon. — Mrs.  Martha 
Barber,  Mayfair,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS  ON  SARDINE  TOAST.— Spread  toast  with 
butter  and  sardine  paste  and  place  a  poached  egg  on  each  slice;  or. 
spread  the  toast  with  patted  or  finely  minced  boiled  ham. — Mrs. 
Tom  Bell,  Bartlett,  111. 

SICILIAN  POACHED  EGGS.— Fill  puff  paste  cases  or  hol- 
lowed and  browned  slices  of  bread  with  cooked  and  sifted  chicken 
livers,  mix  with  cream  or  veloute  sauce  to  fonm  a  thick  puree. 
Place  a  poached  egg  above.  Pour  tomato  sauce  over  or  around 
and  serve. — 'Mrs.  Alex.  Drexel,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS  WITH  SPINACH  A  LA  CREME:— Cook 
5^  a  peck  of  spinach,  drain  and  chop.  Cook  2  oz.  of  flour  in  2  oz. 
of  butter;  add  ^  cup  of  cream  and  when  well  blended  and  smooth, 
add  the  spinach  with  salt  and  pepper  as  needed.  Cook  and  stir 
until  well  mixed,  then  spread  on  rounds  of  toast,  fried  bread  or 
canapes,  and  place  a  poached  egg  on  top;  sprinkle  the  yolk  with 
fine  chopped  parsley  if  desired. — Mrs.  C.  Buttercup,  Bensen,  111. 

POACHED  EGGS  ON  SWEET  POTATO.— Clean   and  cut 

a  large  sweet  potato  crookwise  into  1^  inch  slices.  Boil  or  bake 
until  done.  Scoop  out  the  center,  leaving  a  ^  inch  wall  on  bottom 
and  sides.  Place  a  poached  egg  in  the  cavity  and  have  the  part 
which  was  scooped  out  mashed  and  by  means  of  a  pastry  tube 
place  in  ornamental  designs  around  edge  of  the  egg,  leaving  the 
yolk  and  a  little  of  the  white  showing  through;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  put  a  generous  lump  of  butter  on  top  of  each  egg- 
Set  in  oven  for  a  minute  till  butter  melts. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris, 
Winnetka,  111. 

EGGS  POACHED  IN  TOMATO  OR  A  LA  DAUPHIN.— 

Stew  slowly  for  10  minutes  5^  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  1  small  onion,* 
cut  fine.  Season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper  and  butter;  break  6 
eggs.  1  at  a  time,  into  a  cup  and  slip  them  into  the  hot  tomatoes. 
Lift  the  whites  carefully  with  a  fork,  as  it  cooks,  until  it  is  all  firm ; 
then  prick  the  yolks  and  let  them  mix  with  the  tomato  and  white. 
It  should  be  quite  soft,  but  with  the  red  tomatoes,  the  white  and 
yellow  of  the  egg  quite  distin<!t.  Serve  on  hot  toast. — Mrs,  W.  S. 
Boles,  Wheeling,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  59 

POACHED  EGGS  ON  TOMATO.— Season  and  fry  slices  of 
tomato  in  butter  or  vegetable  oil  and  place  on  slices  of  buttered 
toast.  Serve  with  a  poached  egg  on  each  slice. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris, 
Winnetka,  111. 

POND  LILY  EGGS.— Boil  eggs  hard;  when  cold  peel,  take  a 
knife  and  begin  at  the  small  end  of  the  tgg  and  cut  the  white 
lengthwise  into  fifths  alm.ost  to  the  base,  taking  care  not  to  cut  the 
yolk.  Turn  iback  the  petals  and  roughen  the  surface  of  the  yolk 
with  a  fork  and  put  on  lettuce  leaves.  Serve  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. — ^Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  III. 

POTTED  EGGS.— Pound  the  yolks  of  6  hard-^boiled  eggs  and 
1  oz.  of  butter  together  in  a  mortar,  add  a  little  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper,  and  1  teaspoon  of  anchovy  sauce. — ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

EGG  REVUELTOS.— ^Cook  1  cup  of  cauliflower  until  tender, 
break  6  eggs  into  a  pan  with  2  tablespoons  of  thick  cream  or  rich 
gravy,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  place  over  a  gentle  fire;  add 
the  cauliflower  and  stir  the  mixture  till  it  thickens.  Serve  with 
sippets  of  fried  bread.  Mushrooms,  asparagus  or  other  vegetables 
can  be  used  instead  of  cauliflower. — ^Mrs.  C,  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka, 
111. 

EGG  RISSOLES  WITH  HAM.— Cut  J^  lb.  ham  or  salt  pork 
or  bacon  into  small  dice  and  fry  gently  until  cooked.  Break  in  6 
eggs  and  stir  once  or  twice.  When  the  eggs  are  sufficiently  cooked 
place  on  a  dish  and  serve  very  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka, 
111. 

EGG  SALMAGUNDI.— Chop  1  lam^b's  sweetbread  and  fry 
white  with  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  mushrooms  in  2  oz.  of  melted 
butter.  Beat  6  eggs,  mix  with  1  cup  of  thick  cream  and  pour  them 
into  the  sweetbread.  Stir  over  a  gentle  fire  until  the  mixture 
thickens.  Serve  with  croutons  of  fried  bread. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

SARDINE  EGGS.— Boil  6  eggs  hard  and  throw  into  cold  wa- 
ter. Remove  the  shells  and  cut  the  eggs  in  halves,  removing  the 
yolks.  Pound  these  yolks  to  a  paste  with  a  tablespoon  of  salad 
oil,  and  work  into  this  paste  8  skinned  and  minced  sardines.     Now 


60  EGGS 

add  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  saltspoon  each  of  salt, 
pepper  and  mustard.  Form  into  balls  and  fit  these  into  the  halved 
whites  of  the  eggs,  trimming  off  the  bottoms  of  the  whites  so  that 
they  will  stand  on  end.  Serve  garnished  with  watercress,  and  with 
or  without  mayonnaise  dressing.  Sardine  eggs  may  be  heated  in 
a  double  boiler,  being  careful  to  let  no  water  get  into  the  inner 
compartment,  and  served  hot  with  Bernaise  or  cream  sauce  or  any 
other  sauce  desired. — Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  III. 

SAVORY  EGGS. — ^Dissolve  a  pinch  of  soda  in  a  cup  of  cream 
and  heat  the  cream.  In  another  vessel  heat  a  pt.  of  stock-  Turn 
into  the  stock  6  beaten  eggs,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and 
minced  parsley;  cook  until  the  eggs  begin  to  thicken,  stirring  all 
the  time;  add  the  cream  and  serve  on  slices  of  lightly  buttered 
toast. — Mrs.  Ernest  D.    Dean,  Glen  View,  111. 

SCOTCH  EGGS.— Chop  i^  cup  bread  crumbs  and  V^  milk 
together  until  a  smooth  paste.  Add  to  1  cup  of  lean  ham,  chopped 
very  fine;  add  the  seasoning  to  taste  and  1  raw  t^g.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Shell  6  boiled  eggs  and  cover  with  this  mixture  and 
plunge  into  fat  for  2  minutes.  A  frying  basket  is  best  for  this. 
These  are  nice  for  supper,  lunches  or  picnics. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Sher- 
man, Palatine,  111.  v 

SCOTCH  WOODCOCK.— To  3  tablespoons  butter,  melted, 
add  15^  tablespoons  flour,  cook  till  smooth  and  thick,  then  add  1 
cup  milk,  54  teaspoon  salt,  pepper  to  suit  taste,  then  add  4  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine;  re-heat  and  serve  on  toast  or  crackers. — 
Mrs.  Ralph  Charters,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS.— Break  eggs  all  together  in  a  bowl, 
scatter  a  tablespoon  of  butter  over  the  bottom  of  a  frying  pan  and 
pepper  it  ligthtly  and  sprinkle  on  a  scant  teaspoon  of  salt.  Put  the 
pan  on  the  fire,  as  the  butter  melts  turn  in  the  eggs.  Begin  at 
once  to  scrape  and  toss  up  from  the  bottom,  as  the  eggs  "set" 
there.  Handle  quickly,  following  the  cooking  of  the  egg,  keeping 
all  turned  and  mixed  and  scrambled  together,  until  there  is  no 
liquid  and  no  tough  leathering  solid,  but  a  delicate  mixture  of 
white  and  yellow,  set  but  not  hard,  moist  but  not  running.  Keep 
the  handle  of  the  pan  in  your  left  hand,  as  you  stir  with  your  right, 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  61 

shifting  it  over  the  'heat  as  needed  or  even  raising  it,  if  cooking 
too  fast.  It  will  go  on  hardening  in  the  hot  pan  after  it  is  taken 
from  the  fire,  therefore  either  allow  for  this  and  for  stirring  a  mo- 
(ment  or  two  after  removal,  or  turn  very  quicklj'  into  a  hot  dish 
when  finished  exactly  right.  Use  a  large  limber  knife  or  a  griddle 
spade  for  turning. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St..  Chicago, 
111. 

VARIATION  I. — Beat  the  eggs  with  a  fork  just  enough  to 
break  them.  To  every  4  eggs  add  2  tablespoons  of  milk,  J/2  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  pepper.  Into  a  clean  spider  drop  a  teaspoon  of 
butter.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  set,  remove  to  a  cooler  part  of  the 
range  and  continue  to  stir  until  they  are  of  the  right  consistency. 
They  should  be  firm,  but  not  hard. — ^^Mrs.  Mary  Carpenter,  Des 
Plaines,  111, 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  ANCHOVIES  OR  SARDINES. 

— Drain  the  anchovies  or  sardines  to  free  them  from  the  oil  of  the 
can,  then  remove  skin  or  scale  and  bones  and  pick  the  fillets  into 
small  pieces.  If  salted  anchovies  be  used,  soak  in  milk  or  water  6 
or  more  hrs.  Beat  5  eggs  slightly;  add  salt  and  pepper  as  desired 
and  5  tablespoons  of  water,  milk  or  cream.  Melt  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  in  the  blazer  directly  over  the  flame  and  put  in  the  pieces 
of  fish  (there  should  be  ^  a  cup  or  more  as  taste  approves),  shake 
the  blazer  a  moment,  then  turn  in  the  egg  mixture  and  cook  as 
scrambled  eggs. — Mabel  E.  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  ANCHOVY  TOAST.— Spread 
thin  slices  of  buttered  toast  with  anchovy  paste.  Arrange  on  a 
platter  and  cover  with  scrambled  eggs. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

EGGS  SCRAMBLED  WITH  CHEESE.— Beat  5  eggs  until  a 
full  spoon  of  egg  can  'be  taken  up;  add  a  few  grains  each  of  salt 
and  pepper,  5  tablespoons  each  of  cream  or  water  and  grated 
cheese,  turn  into  a  pan  oiled  with  butter  or  vegetable  oil  and  cook 
and  stir  until  the  mixture  is  lightly  set,  then  serve  at  once. — Mrs. 
B.  Reeves,  Palatine,  111, 

FOR  SCRAMBLED  EGGS  IN  CUPS.— See  Oxeyet.  "^ 


p 


^ 


62  EGGS 

FRENCH  SCRAMBLED  EGGS.— Beat  4  eggs  until  well  bro- 
ken, then  add  4  teaspoons  of  stock,  4  teaspoons  of  cream,  1  table- 
spoon butter;  turn  into  a  chafing  dish  or  frying  pan  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  they  begin  to  thicken.  Add  J^  teaspoon  salt,  %  tea- 
spoon pepper,  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Julius  Casper,  Wheeling, 
111. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  POTATOES.— Take  2  cups  cold 

mashed  potatoes  and  4  eggs,  beat  together  until  light,  cook  in  hot 
buttered  frying  pan,  stirring  constantly;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt  before  removing  from  fire. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Adams,  Franklin,  III. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE.— Simmer 
1^  cups  tomatoes  and  2  teaspoons  sugar  5  minutes;  fry  4  table- 
spoons of  'butter  and  1  slice  of  onion  3  minutes,  remove  onions 
and  add  tomatoes,  seasoning  and  eggs  slightly  beaten,  cook  same 
as  scrambled  eggs.  Serve  with  entire  wheat  'bread  or  brown  bread 
toast. — Mrs.  Almond  Case*  Palatine,  111. 

EGGS  SCRAMBLED  WITH  TOMATOES  AND  GREEN 
PEPPER. — Remove  the  seeds  and  veins  from  a  green  pepper  and 
cut  it  in  shreds.  Scald  5  tomatoes,  remove  the  skins,  and  cut  in 
quarters,  cook  the  peppers  and  tomatoes  in  2  tablespoons  of  butter 
until  the  liquid  is  reduced,  then  season  with  salt  and  keep  hot. 
Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  second  pan  or  blazer,  pour  in  6 
eggs,  beaten  without  separating,  until  a  full  spoonful  can  be  taken 
up,  and  season  with  salt.  Stir  and  cook  until  the  eggs  become 
thick  and  creamy;  add  meanwhile  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  pieces. 
Serve  the  2  dishes  together. — Mrs.  John  Adkins,  Wheeling,  111. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS,  CAMPERS'  OR  HOBO  STYLE.— Put 
a  little  milk  or  water  in  a  pan,  can  or  any  available  cooking  uten- 
sil, bring  to  a  boil,  beat  eggs  in  another  vessel,  add  to  boiling  fluid, 
season  and  stir  until  set.  This  requires  no  grease. — E.  G.  Harris, 
Winnetka,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  SHEARER.— Boil  5  fresh  eggs  3  min-utes:  re- 
move shells,  without  breaking  whites;  put  eggs  in  a  shallow  bak- 
ing dish.  Make  a  cream  sauce  with  1  pt.  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  and  1  teaspoon  of  flour  made  smooth  with  cream,  and  1 
teaspoon  salt.    Cook  5  minutes.    Cover  the  eggs  with  this  sauce, 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  63 

and  sprinkle  grated  cheese  on  top,  dot  with  bits  of  butter  and 
brown  in  the  oven.  Serve  in  the  baking  dish. — ^^Mrs.  Geo.  Earle, 
Wheeling,  111. 

SHIRRED  EGGS  AU  MIRROR.— Break  eggs  into  individual 
baking  dishes  or  paper  cases,  one  in  a  dish,  set  in  the  oven  to 
bake  and  baste  v^ith  melted  butter,  during  the  cooking,  to  give 
them  a  glossy,  shiny  appearance.  Serve  on  the  dish  in  which  they 
are  cooked. — Mrs.  Emmet  Edmonds,  Glencoe,  111. 

VARIATION  1. — Mix  2  tablespoons  each  of  bread  crumbs  and 
chopped  chicken  or  other  fowl,  ham  or  other  left-over  meat  (or 
use  bread  alone)  with  the  cream  to  make  a  batter;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Line  a  buttered  china  or  paper  case  or  individual 
baking  dish  with  the  batter;  break  an  egg  into  the  dish,  and,  if 
desired,  cover  with  batter;  bake  on  a  folded  paper  in  a  dish  con- 
taining hot  water,  until  the  egg  is  set.  Serve  from  the  dish.  In- 
stead of  meat  and  -bread  add  handful  of  chopped  mushrooms  with 
a  little  imdnced  onions  sprinkled  over  the  bottom  and  chopped 
parsley  sprinkled  over  the  egg  before  baking.  Baste  with  batter 
while  baking. — ^Mrs.  Geo.  F.  Brady,  Mayfair,  111. 

EGGS  SHIRRED  IN  TOMATOES.-^Cut  circular  pieces  from 
the  stem  ends  of  the  tomatoes  and  remove  part  of  the  pulp;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  also  with  onion  juice  and  parsley  if  desired; 
break  an  egg  into  each  tomato  and  cook  in  a  slow  oven  until  the 
egg  is  set,  feasting  wifh  melted  butter.  Serve  on  rounds  of  buttered 
toast;  or  put  the  tomatoes  into  the  oven  on  rounds  of  bread  brushed 
over  on  all  sides  with  melted  butter;  remove  the  tomatoes  on  the 
bread  to  the  serving  dish.  Garnish  with  curled  celery.  Serve  with 
cream  sauce,  poured  round  the  toast. — ^Mrs.  F.  Farley,  Wilmette, 
111. 

EGGS  AND  SHRIMPS  (A  Cuban  Dish).— Make  a  white  sauce 
of  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  of  flour;  when  it  bubbles  add 
a  teaspoon  of  onion  juice  and  twice  as  much  green  sweet  pepper, 
minced  fine,  with  salt  and  a  saltspoon  of  sugar.  Boil  up  and  stir 
in  a  can  of  shrimps,  previously  washed  and  drained.  Cook  for  5 
minutes;  remove  to  the  table  and  mix  it  gradually,  stirring  all  the 
time,  4  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  just  enough  to  break  the 
yolks.  Return  to  the  fire  and  stir  until  the  eggs  begin  to  "set." — 
Mrs.  Fay  Fadden,  Bartlett,  111. 


64  EGGS 

EGGS  A  LA  SIDNEY.— Arrange  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in 
thirds  lengthwise,  on  piece  of  toasted  bread.  Pour  over  Soubise 
sauce. — Mrs.  Frank  Darling,  Kenilworth,  111. 

SNOW  EGGS. — Take  2  level  tablespoons  of  sugar  to  each 
white  of  egg.  Beat  the  whites  until  nearly  dry,  then  continue 
beating,  adding  the  sugar  meanwhile,  until  half  has  been  used; 
beat  until  the  mixture  is  very  firm,  then  gently  fold  in  the  other  half 
of  the  sugar.  Dip  a  tablespoon  in  boiling  water,  then  fill  it  with 
meringue  and  shape  around  the  mixture  m  such  a  manner  that  there 
will  be  as  much  meringue  above  as  below  the  level  of  the  spoon. 
Remove  the  mixture  to  the  saucepan  of  gently  boiling  water  and 
let  stand  where  the  water  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil,  and  poach 
th«  eggs  until  firm  throughout,  turning  occasionally.  It  will  take 
from  6  to  10,  possibly  14  minutes,  to  poach  each  egg.  Remove  with 
a  skimmer  and  drain  on  a  cloth,  spread  over  a  sieve.  Snow  eggs 
imay  be  poached  in  milk,  and  the  milk  ^be  used  afterward  in  making 
a  custard. — Mrs.  Ben  Dunn,  Palatine,  111. 

EGG  SOUFFLE. — 1  cup  cream,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  a  few 
grains  of  cayenne.  Cream  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  2  tablespoons 
flour  and  pour  on  gradually  1  cup  scalded  milk  and  cream,  cook  in 
double  boiler  5  minutes  and  add  yolks  of  4  eggs,  beaten  until  thick 
and  lemon  colored.  Remove  from  fire,  add  salt  and  cayenne  to 
taste  and  foW'  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.  Turn 
into  a  buttered  dish,  or  buttered  individual  moulds,  set  in  pan  of 
hot  water  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm.  Egg  Souffle  may  be 
served  with  white  sauce  highly  seasoned  with  celery,  salt,  paprika 
and  onion  juice. — Maljel  Sturtevant»  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago, 
III 

SPANISH  EGGS.— Boil  1  cup  of  rice  in  2  qts.  of  boiling  water 
containing  a  tablespoon  of  salt,  for  20  minutes.  Drain  through  a 
colander  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  Spread  the  rice  thin  on 
a  hot  platter  and  place  on  top  of  it  6  eggs.  Serve  at  once. — Mrs. 
C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

STEAMED  EGGS. — Place  egg  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  wa- 
ter, steam  5  minutes  for  a  soft  yolk;  break  the  egg  in  a  cup  and 
serve  hot. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Allen,  Arlington  Heights,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  65 

STEAMED  EGGS  IN  CUPS.— Break  eggs  in  buttered  cups, 
and  set  in  steamer  to  cook.  Serve  immediately. — Mabel  Sturte- 
vant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

» 

STIRRED  EGGS.— Place  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  pan  or 
chafing  dish;  beat  3  eggs  until  light  and  add  ^  pt.  milk  and  %.  salt- 
spoon  of  salt;  when  butter  is  quite  hot  stir  in  this  mixture,  stirring 
with  a  silver  fork  until  the  eggs  are  creamy  and  cooked  sufficiently. 
Serve  on  toast.— Mrs.  James  Andrews,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  STORK.— Melt  1  large  tablespoon  butter  in  a 
pan  or  in  the  blazer  of  the  chafing  dish;  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
and  cook  for  2  minutes;  then  add  1  pt.  of  milk,  stir  until  it  thick- 
ens and  is  perfectly  smooth;  then  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of 
paprika,  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  1  cup  grated  cheese; 
stir  until  the  cheese  is  melted,  a^id  then  reduce  the  flame  and  break 
carefully  on  the  sauce  as  many  eggs  as  are  desired;  cook  very 
slowly  until  the  eggs  are  well  set.  Serve  on  toast. — Mrs.  Almond 
Case,  Bensen,  111. 

STUFFED  EGGS.— Cut  6  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves.  Take 
out  the  yolks  and  mash  them  fine.  Add  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1 
teaspoon  of  cream,  2  or  3  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Mix  all  thoroughly.  Fill  the  tgg  from  the  mixture,  and 
put  them  together.  There  will  be  a  little  filling  left,  to  which  add 
a  well  beaten  egg.  Cover  the  eggs  with  this  last  preparation  and 
roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  boiling  lard  till  light  brown. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cut  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves  crosswise;  re- 
move yolks  and  mash;  add  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  1  teaspoon 
mustard,  and  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Add  enough  melted  but- 
ter to  make  of  right  consistency  to  shape.  Make  in  balls  the  size 
of  original  yolks,  and  refill  whites.  Arrange  on  a  serving  dish, 
pour  around  1  cup  of  white  sauce,  cover  and  re-heat. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

STUFFED  EGGS  A  LA  HOT  SPRINGS.— Mash  the  yolks 
of  hard-boiled  eggs;  add  2  teaspoons  of  Gutter,  1  of  cream,  2  drops 
of  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Mix  all  thoroughly  and 


66  €GCS 

fill  the  white  with  the  mixture  and  put  together.  Add  1  beaten 
egg  to  the  remaining  filling.  Cover  the  eggs  with  this  mixture 
and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  a  light  brown. — 'Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeflfries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

FRIED  STUFFED  EGGS.— Have  eggs  hard  boiled.  With  a 
tin  tube  or  a  s^harp  pointed  knife  remove  a  cylindrical  piece  of 
white  from  the  pointed  end  of  each  egg;  empty  the  whites  out  of 
the  yolks  with  a  small  vegetaible  spoon.  Pound  the  yolks  with  Ber- 
naise  or  Hollandaise  sauce,  adding  cooked  mushrooms,  chopped 
fine;  fill  the  eggs  with  this  mixture  and  put  the  pieces  of  white 
back  in  place;  roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  to  a  pale  straw 
color,  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with  Soubise  or  tomato  sauce. — Mrs. 
Phillip  D.  Moore,  Kenilworth,  111. 

STUFFED  EGGS  AU  GRATIN.— ^Cut  required  number  of 
hard^^-boiled  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise;  remove  and  sift  the  yolks, 
then  add  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  boiled  ham,  with  chicken  or 
tongue  pounded  to  a  paste;  H  teaspoon  of  paprika,  and  mixed 
mustard,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice  and  uncooked  yolk  oi  eggs  or 
sauce,  as  needed  to  shape.  With  this  fill  the  whites  and  press 
together  corresponding  halves.  Put  2/3  cup  of  bread,  cream  or 
tomato  sauce  in  a  buttered  dish,  and  arrange  the  eggs  in  the  sauce, 
pouring  ^  cup  of  coarse  bread  crumbs,  sauted  in  2  tablespoons 
of  ibuttcr  and  set  the  dish  in  the  oven  to  re-heat. — Mrs.  B.  C.  Moore, 
Bartlett,  111. 

STUFFED  EGGS  IN  A  NEST.— Cut  hard-boiled  eggs  in 
halves  lengthwise.  Remove  yolks,  and  put  whites  aside  in  pairs. 
Mash  yolks  and  add  half  the  amount  of  deviled  ham  and  enough 
melted  butter  to  make  of  consistency  to  shape.  Make  in  balls  size 
of  original  yolks,  and  refill  whites.  Form  remainder  of  mixture  into 
a  nest.  Arrange  eggs  in  the  nest,  and  pour  over  them  1  cup  of 
cream  sauce  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  until  crumbs  are 
brown. — Mrs.  Nathan  Morris,  Glencoe,  111. 

STUFFED  TURKEY  EGGS.— Boil  4  turkey  eggs  20  minutes, 
cool  in  water  and  take  off  shells.  Divide  each  egg  in  halves 
lengthwise.  Pound  the  yolks  in  a  mortar  with  J4  tablespoon  of 
butter,  a  little  salt,  nutmeg,  cayenne  pepper  and  mace;  now  add  1 
beaten  hen's  egg  and  the  yolk  of  a  second  or  a  small  quantity  of 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  67 

cream,  and  mix  all  thoroughly.  Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  bottom 
of  each  half  of  the  white  of  the  turkey  eggs  so  that  it  will  stand 
without  tipping,  and  fill  each  hollow  heaping  full  of  the  above 
mixture;  smooth  it  nicely,  put  the  eggs  in  a  dish  and  bake  gently 
10  or  15  minutes.  Serve  at  once,  with  or  without  a  sauce. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SUNSHINE  OR  MOONSHINE  EGGS.— Melt  a  little  but- 
ter in  an  omelette  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  break  into  it  the 
number  of  eggs  required.  Fry  these  over  the  fire  for  2  minutes 
till  they  are  poached.  Turn  up  the  edges  so  they  do  not  spread  too 
far.  When  serving  them  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  cover  with 
tomato  sauce.  Eggs  so  prepared  and  sprinkled  over  with  grated 
cheese  are  called  moonshine  eggs. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka, 
111. 

EGGS  SUSETTE.— Wash  and  bake  6  large  potatoes,  cut  a 
slice  from  top  of  each,  scoop  out  inside  and  mash.  To  3  cups  of 
mashed  potatoes  add  6  tablespoons  finely  chopped  ham,  2  table- 
spoons finely  chopped  parsley,  whites  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  3 
tablespoons  of  butter,  4  taiblespoons  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Line  potato  shells  with  mixture,  place  in  each  cavity  a 
delicately  poached  or  baked  egg  or  spoonful  of  scrambled  egg, 
cover  with  the  potato  mixture,  and  bake  until  browned. — ^^Mrs.  Jas. 
McLaren,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  SUZANNE.— Bake  as  many  potatoes  as  you 
have  persons  to  serve,  and  allow  1  egg  for  each  potato.  When 
the  potatoes  are  done,  cut  a  slice  from  the  side  of  each,  scoop  out 
a  portion  of  the  potato,  leaving  a  wall  half  an  inch  thick.  Put 
the  scooped  out  portion  through  a  potato  press,  add  sufficient  hot 
milk  to  make  it  as  soft  as  mashed  potatoes;  beat  until  light,  add  a 
palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper  and  turn  the  mixture  into 
a  pastry  bag.  Break  1  egg  into  each  potato,  dust  it  lightly  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  press  the  potato  from  the  pastry  bag»  through 
a  star  tube,  around  the  edge  of  the  baked  potato,  forming  a  border, 
leaving  the  yolk  slightly  exposed.  Stand  these  in  a  baking  pan 
and  bake  until  the  eggs  are  set.  Serve  plain,  or  put  a  tablespoon 
of  white  sauce  in  the  middle  of  each,  and  garnish  with  a  sprinkling 
of  chopped  parsley.— Mrs.  Z.  E.  Fairweathcr,  Mayfair,  lU. 


68  •     EGGS 

TORTILLA. — Beat  separately  the  -whites  and  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  mix  them  gently  together,  add  1  oz.  of  apricot  or  pine- 
apple preserve  and  beat  again.  Pour  thfe  mixture  into  3  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter  and  brown  it  lightly  on  1  side,  turn  it 
with  a  plate  and  brown  the  other  side. — ^^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

SWISS  EGGS — Heat  some  butter  in  a  shallow  basin  or  pie- 
plate  and  break  in  the  desired  nulmber  of  eggs.  Add  nearly  a  table- 
spoon of  sweet  cream  to  each  egg;  salt  and  pepper,  then  grate 
cheese  over  them  and  put  in  oven  and  bake. — Mrs.  Mose  Casey, 
Franklin,  111, 

EGGS  A  LA  TARCAT.— Cut  6  hard-boiled  eggs  in  half  length- 
wise; remove  yolk  and  rub  smooth  with  %  lb.  of  ham,  J4  onion, 
chopped  fine,  %  teaspoon  prepared  mustard,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  a 
little  red  pepper.  Refill  the  whites  with  the  mixture  and  serve 
cold  on  lettuce  leaves  with  salad  dressing. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105 
S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

EGG  TIMBALES.— Break  6  eggs  into  a  bowl,  beat  well;  add 
1  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  pars- 
ley; J4  teaspoon  onion  juice  and  heat  1  minute.  Add  \y^  cups  of 
rich  milk  and  stir  well,  'butter  timbale  moulds,  and  pour  in  the  mix- 
ture. Place  in  a  deep  pan,  and  pour  in  enough  hot  water  to  reach 
almost  to  the  top  of  mould.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  cook 
about  15  minutes.  Turn  out  on  a  warm  dish,  put  a  sprig  of  pars- 
ley on  each  timbale  and  serve  with  tomato  or  cream  sauce. — Mrs. 
G.  D.  Faulkner,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

EGGS  IN  TOMATO.— Add  1  small  onion,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt,  %  teaspoon  of  pepper,  1  pt.  tomato  in  a  frying- 
pan,  stew  very  slowly  for  10  minutes,  and  add  the  salt  and  pepper. 
Set  the  pan  back,  break  6  eggs  and  slip  them  on  top  of  the  tomato, 
taking  care  not  to  break  the  yolks.  Return  the  pan  to  the  heat, 
and  cook  slowly  until  the  whites  of  the  eggs  are  thoroughly  set; 
then  prick  the  yolks  and  let  them  mingle  with  the  tomato  and 
whitea,  The  mixture  should  be  quite  soft,  but  the  red  tomatoes 
and  the  white  and  yellow  of  the  eg^gs  should  be  quite  distinct. 
Scrv«  at  once  on  buttered'  toast.— Mrs,  May  Friend,  Wjnoetka.  Ill, 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  60 

EGGS  IN  TOMATO  SAUCE.— Put  1  cup  tomatoes  on  to  boil 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  teaspoon  of  onion  juice  or  grated  onion,  salt 
and  pepper,  boil  3  minutes.  Mix  1/2  teaspoon  corn  starch  with  a 
little  cold  water  and  add  to  the  tomatoes,  boil  1  minute;  strain 
on  to  the  platter  or  baking  ^ish,  which  has  been  brushed  with 
butter;  place  3  rounds  of  bread  in  the  tomato,  then  in  the  center 
of  each  round  put  an  egg,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  yolk; 
always  break  an  egg  into  a  small  dish  first.  Dust  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper  and  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each 
egg;  place  in  a  moderate  oven  for  10  or  15  minutes  or  until  they 
are  as  firm  as  you  like  them.  Remove  from  the  oven  and  serve  in 
the  dish  they  were  baked  in;  garnish  with  parsley. — Mrs.  J.  Gaflf- 
eny,  Wheeling,  111. 

EGGS  ON  TOAST.— Put  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan; 
when  this  is  hot  stir  in  4  or  5  well  beaten  eggs.  Season  with  pep- 
per, salt  and  a  little  parsley,  stir  and  toss  for  3  minutes.  Have 
ready  'buttered  toast,  cut  with  a  cake  cutter  after  toasting,  spread 
thickly  with  minced  tongue,  chicken  or  haim,  heap  the  stirred  eggs 
on  these  mounds,  and  set  in  a  hot  dish  garnished  with  parsley  and 
pickled  beets. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

EGGS  A  LA  TURK. — Prepare  scrambled  eggs  and  pour  over 
6  slices  of  toasted  bread.  Put  a  tablespoon  tomato  puree  on 
each  piece  and  in  the  center  of  puree  J^  tablespoon  chickens'  livers, 
sauted  in  bacon  fat. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Miller,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

EGG  VERMICELLI. — Spread  on  rounds  of  moistened,  or  but- 
tered toast  a  white  sauce  containing  the  chopped  whites  of  eggs 
and  sift  the  yolks  over  the  top.  Mix  chopped  chicken,  ham,  or 
mushrooms  into  the  sauce,  if  convenient. — Mrs.  Chas.  C.  Clark, 
Wheeling,  111. 

EGGS  VIRGINIA. — Grate  6  ears  of  corn,  add  to  it  ^  cup  flour, 

mix;  add  ^  cup  milk  and  the  3'olks  of  2  eggs;  fold  in  the  well  beat- 
en whites  and  add  salt  and  pepper.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  in  a  little 
fat  in  a  saucepan.  Brown  on  both  sides.  They  should  be  about 
the  size  of  a  large  coffee  cup.  Drain  and  arrange  them  on  a  platter- 
Put  on  top  of  each  one  a  poached  egg.  Cover  with  white  sauce, 
and  garnish  the  edge  of  the  dish  with  nicely  seasoned  green  peas. 
This  dish  gives  a  complete  lunch. — Mrs.  C.  Maybee,  Mayfair,  111. 


76  ^CGS 

WHIRLED  EGGS.— 1  qt.  of  boiling  water,  salted  with  a  dcs- 
scrtsi^oon  of  salt;  keep  the  water  at  a  fast  boil,  stirring  with  a  ladle 
or  spoon  in  one  direction  until  it  whirls  rapidly.  Break  the  eggs 
one  at  a  time,  into  a  cup  and  drop  into  the  center  or  vortex  of  the 
whirlpool,  which  must  be  kept  in  motion  until  the  egg  is  a  round 
ball.  Remove  carefully  with  a  perforated  spoon,  put  it  on  a  slice 
of  buttered  toast  and  place  the  dish  in  the  oven  to  keep  warm. 
jProcecd  in  same  way  with  each  egg,  when  th*  desired  number  are 
cooked,  add  a  dash  of  pepper,  a  bit  of  butter  and  send  hot  to  the 
table. — Naomi  T.  Compton,  Kenilworth,  111.  * 

VARIATION  I. — The  Egyptian  shepherds  placed  eggs  in  a 
sling  and  whirled  them  around  so  rapidly  that  the  friction  of  the 
air  heated  them  to  the  exact  degree  required  to  cook  them. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

EGGS  COOKED  IN  HOT  ASHES  (Nice  for  Campers).— In 
countries  where  wood  fire  is  constantly  used  the  cottager  half 
buries  his  eggs  in  an  upright  position  in  hot  ashes,  upon  the 
hearth,  and  when  a  clear  drop  oozes  on  the  top  of  the  shell  the 
eggs  are  ready  to  serve — ^Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 


BREAD 


HOME  MADE  YEAST — Cover  1  cup  hops  with  water  and 
steep  until  the  strength  has  been  well  extracted.  Peel  and  grate  6 
large  potatoes,  add  1  cup  of  flour,  1  cup  "brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
ginger,  1  tablespoon  salt;  imix  thoroughly,  pour  the  hop  tea  over, 
stir  well  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Add  a  little  more  water  to  the 
hops  and  strain;  when  lukewarm  add  yeast  cakes.  When  the 
sponge  is  cool  add  the  dissolved  yeast  and  beat  till  well  'mixed, 
set  away  in  a  warm  place  to  rise;  when  light  is  is  ready  lor  use. 
This  yeast  will  keep  any  length  of  time  in  sealed  jars  or  in  a  cool 
place  but  do  not  allow  to  freeze,  as  that  kills  the  yeast  germs. — 
Mrs.  C.  E.  Westinghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Mix  well  1  cup  flour,  ^  cup  sugar,  }4  cup 
salt.  Pour  on  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  time.  Then  have  1  qt. 
mashed  potatoes,  with  4  or  5  qts.  water  in  which  they  were  'boiled. 
Soak  1  yeast  cake,  and  add  as  soon  as  batter  is  cool.  Set  in  a  warm 
place  over  night,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  To  every  loaf  of 
bread,  use  2  cups  of  the  yeast.  The  yeast  must  be  blood  warm  to 
set  the  bread. — Mrs.  John  Pallon,  Wheeling,  111. 

METHODIST  YEAST.— -Put  into  a  nice  sized  crock  1  cup 
flour,  y2  cup  sugar,  J4  cup  salt,  1  cup  lukewarm  water,  stir  all  to- 
gether, then  add  1  qt.  of  mashed  potatoes,  2  pts.  of  lukewarm  water, 
having  all  the  right  temperature  before  adding  yeast  cake  already 
dissolved  in  J^  cup  lukewarm  water,  keep  warm  and  let  rise  till 
morning,  then  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  nice  batter,  let  rise 
Ya,  oi  an  hr.,  then  (mix  up  stiff  into  loaves  and  leave  to  rise  again; 
mix  another  time  and  let  rise  again,  then  put  into  pans  and  bake. 
This  never  failed  making  good  sweet  bread,  the  very  best  of 
bread. — Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Lawrence,  Bensen,  111. 

BREAD. — Crush  a  cake  of  yeast  and  put  in  a  small  basin  with 
a  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  ^  pt.  of  lukewarm  water  and  milk,  and 
set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.   When  risen,  pour  in  a  p^an  with  1  qt. 

71 


72  BREAD 

of  warm  water  in  which  2  or  3  mashed  potatoes  have  been  stirred, 
then  quickly  pour  on  3  pounds  of  flour  and  2  teaspoons  of  salt. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  allow  to  stand  8  or  10  hrs.  Then  add  suffi- 
cient flour  to  make  a  fairly  stiff  dough,  knead  well,  allow  to  rise 
again.  You  will  then  have  a  very  light  dough.  Knead.  Put  in 
baking  tins,  and  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  15  minutes;  bake  for  1 
hour  and  a  half  in  a  rather  slow  oven. — -Mrs.  D.  O.  Dooley,  Ben- 
sen,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Save  the  potato  water  from  the  potatoes 
cooked  for  dinnfer  and  3  or  4  potatoes  mashed  fine;  let  both  stand 
in  a  granite  pan  until  night;  warm  about  1  qt.  of  flour,  make  a  place 
in  center  of  flour,  warm  the  potato  water,  soak  1^  yeast  cake  in 
lukewarm  water,  put  into  potatoes,  in  all  have  about  a  qt.  of  liquid, 
pour  into  your  flour,  imix  it  into  a  batter,  cover  it  up  warm  for  the 
night.  In  the  morning  put  in  a  tablespoon  of  salt.  1  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  I'jA  qts.  of  warm  water;  mix  all  the  flour  into  it;  let  it  raise 
until  light,  and  then  mix  stiff  for  5^  an  hr.,  not  too  hard.  When 
light  again,  knead.  In  ^2  hr.  knead  into  loaves  lightly;  let  raise 
again  and  bake. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Cowie.  Franklin,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Soak  ^  yeast  cake  in  a  cup  of  lukewarm 
water  at  9  o'clock  in  the  morning.  At  noon  cook  3  or  4  medium 
sized  potatoes,  mash,  add  potato  water,  1  tablespoon  salt,  ^  cup 
granulated  sugar  and  dissolved  yeast  cake,  having  it  only  luke- 
warm; let  stand  all  afternoon;  "before  retiring,  mix,  allowing  2  qt?. 
of  yeast  (if  not  enough  yeast  add  some  water)  for  2  or  3  large 
loaves,  and  make  quite  stiff.  In  the  morning  put  in  pans,  let  rise, 
put  in  oven  and  bake  ^  of  an  hr.  Do  not  allow  it  to  become 
chilled. — Mrs-  John  Wismer,  Wheeling,  111. 

VARIATION  III.— Add  to  8  large  potatoes,  mashed  fine.  4 
tablespoons  of  flour.  4  tablespoons  salt,  4  tablespoons  sugar;  to 
this  add  1  qt.  of  boiling  water  and  4  qts.  cold  water;  let  this  mix- 
ture remain  in  a  warhn  place  for  18  hrs.,  then  put  in  jars  set  in  a 
cool  place;  use  1  qt.  far  2  loaves.  Warm  the  liquid  carefully  till 
about  blood  heat,  add  a  tablespoon  salt,  mix  into  a  soft  dough 
('having  warmed  the  flour),  let  rise  for  30  minutes,  then  knead,  and 
when  light  put  in  pans,  let  rise  and  bake. — Mrs.  Isaiah  Hoover, 
Palatine,  111. 


GOOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  73 

VARIATION  IV.— J^  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  ly^  pts.  of 
lukewarm  water,  1  teaspoon  of  each  salt  and  sugar,  flour  to  make 
a  stiff  dough,  knead  till  it  pops,  cracks,  or  sings.  Set  this  sponge 
at  night  in  a  warm  place.  Upon  arising  in  the  morning  knead  into 
loaves.  Let  rise  an  hr.  in  a  warm  place,  bake  ^  hr.  in  a  moderate 
oven.  This  makes  3  loaves. — ^Mrs.  F.  E.  Clower,  1103  S.  7th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  V. — For  7  large  loaves  of  bread  use  3  qts.  of 
potato  water  and  a  cup  of  boiled  potatoes  mashed  very  fine;  3 
tablespoons  of  salt,  1  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  1  cake  of  yeast 
foam.  Soak  the  yeast  foam  54  an  hr.  before  soaking  the  com- 
pressed yeast  cake  in  J^  a  cup  (of  lukewarm  water  with  a  table- 
spoon of  sugar  and  1  pt.  of  milk.  Set  at  night.  Put  yeast,  pota- 
toes, etc.,  into  liquid.  Have  everything  lukewarm,  then  get  flour. 
Work  into  the  liquid  in  a  large  bread  pan  with  a  cover,  until  it  is 
Tike  a  rubber  ball.  Rub  butter  on  top  to  keep  from  crusting,  cover 
and  keep  in  a  warm  place.  In  the  morning  flour  the  bread  board, 
knead  loaves  and  put  into  pans.  This  bread  may  be  baked  with 
the  breakfast  fire. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Cleveland,  Bartiett,  111. 

BUTTERMILK  BREAD — 1  qt.  of  sour  buttermilk,  1  large 
tabl-espoon  sugar,  2  even  teaspoons  soda,  3  tablespoons  butter,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  2^  qts,  flour.  Heat  the  buttermilk  to  the  boiling 
point,  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  curdling.  Add  the  sugar  and 
pour  in  a  large  bowl.  Now  gradually  sift  into  this  mixture  1  qt. 
flour,  stirring  constantly.  Beat  well;  cover  and  let  stand  in  a 
warm  room  over  night,  say  from  9:30  p.  m,  to  6:30  a,  m.  In  the 
morning  dissolve  the  soda  in  3  tablespoons  of  water  and  add  to 
the  batter,  with  the  salt  and  butter  melted.  Beat  thoroughly;  grad- 
ually beat  in  the  remainder  of  the  flour,  reserving  J^  cup  for 
kneading.  Knead  15  minutes.  Divide  into  -3  parts  and  shape  into 
loaves.  Put  into  buttered  pans  immediately  and  bake  1  hr. — Mrs. 
Ernest  D.  Dean,  Glen  View,  111. 

QUICK  BREAD.— Mix  1  qt.  of  \tarm  milk,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter  and  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  with  enough  flour  to  make 
a  good  batter;  let  rise  about  2  hrs.;  knead  well  just  before  retiring 
and  form  into  a  large  loaf.  Grease  the  pan  and  the  top  of  the 
loaf  and  let  rise  over  night.     Immediately  upon  rising  fonm  into 


74  BREAD 

loaves  and  grease  the  tops  again,  when  they  are  put  in  the  oven  to 
bake.  If  there  is  too  much  sponge  for  one  haking,  it  can  be 
kneaded  down  and  put  in  the  ice  box  and  baked  the  following 
morning,  thus  having  hot  rolls  with  little  work.  If  the  bread  is 
needed  in  less  time,  add  more  sugar,  as  that  accelerates  the  rising. 
— Mrs.  Ella  Fairchild,  Palatine*  111. 

THREE-HOUR  BREAD.— 8  potatoes,  peeled,  boiled  and 
mashed  in  the  same  water;  1  cup  of  flour  cooked  to  a  smooth  paste, 
1  cup  sugar,  1/3  cup  of  salt,  and  2  yeast  cakes  added  when  mixture 
is  lukewarm.  Keep  warm  for  the  first  18  hrs.;  it  can  then  be  used 
for  bread,  but  best  results  are  obtained  when  the  yeast  is  3  days 
old.  Keep  covered  and  in  a  cool  place;  will  keep  indefinitely. 
Take  a  qt.  of  this  yeast  and  6  pts.  of  water  for  6  or  7  medium 
sized  loaves.  When  raised  to  twice  the  original  bulk  mould  into 
pans,  let  rise  and  bake.  This  bread  can  be  d<)ne  in  3  hrs.  from 
first  imixing-  One  cup  of  yeast  should  be  reserved  to  start  a  new 
supply  of  the  yeast. — ^Mrs.  C.  Buttercup,  Bensen,  111. 

FOUR-HOUR  BREAD.— Mash  3  cups  of  boiled  sliced  pota- 
toes and  put  into  a  colander  over  a  crock  containing  2  cups  flour,  ^ 
cup  sugar,  %  cup  salt.  Pour  over  the  potatoes  4  cups  of  lukewarm 
water,  when  cool  add  the  yeast  cake,  which  has  been  previously 
soaked  in  a  little  warm  water.  Stir  every  l^  hr.  until  light  and 
keep  in  a  warm  place.  In  the  morning  take  2  cups  of  this  yeast 
mixture  to  1  of  water  and  mix  the  bread  sponge,  have  the  flour 
warm.  Let  rise,  knead  and  make,  into  loaves.  The  yeast  which 
is  left  may  be  put  in  the  ice  box  or  other  cool  place  for  later  use.— 
Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  111. 

BREAD  WITHOUT  KNEADING.— Put  in  a  pail  1  table- 
spoon of  salt,  1  of  sugar  and  2  of  flour,  with  enough  cold  or  tepid 
water  to  mix  to  a  cream  without  lumps.  Pour  into  this  boiling 
water  in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled.  Put  a  cake  of  yeast  in 
a  cup  of  cold  water.  When  the  sponge  is  cold,  pour  water  and 
yeast  into  the  pail  and  let  stand  until  night.  Then  put  all  into  a 
bread  pan,  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter.  Let  rise  until  morn- 
ing, then  mix  up  hard  (not  down)  and  let  it  rise  again.  Form  in 
loaves  and  let  rise  until  ready  to  bake — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
aetka,  III. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  75 

SALT-RISING  BREAD.— The  following  is  the  recipe  of  the 
good  old-fashioned  salt-rising  bread  so  commonly  known  in  th.e 
days  of  our  grandmothers:  Pour  ^  a  pt.  of  water  on  2  table- 
spoons of  cornimeal  and  a  generous  pinch  of  salt.  Let  it  stand  for 
10  minutes,  then  stir  in  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  set  it  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  5^  a  pt.  of  fresh, 
sweet  milk,  or  warm  water — either  must  be  lukewarm — and  just 
flour  enough  to  make  the  yeast  smooth;  then  put  the  vessel  con- 
taining it  in  a  pan  or  kettle  of  hot  water,  hot  enough  to  bear  your 
hand  in  and  be  very  careful  to  keep  it  the  same  temperature.  A 
carefully  selected  place  on  the  back  of  the  range  may  be  best. 
When  this  rises  pour  it  into  a  batter  made  of  2  qts.  of  fresh  morn- 
ing's milk,  scalded,  then  cooled  to  lukewarm,  and  mixed  with 
flour  enough  to  make  a  batter.  Beat  this  well,  using  a  long  spoon, 
then  set  the  whole  to  rise  again  in  a  warm  place.  This  will  be 
aibout  25  or  30  Jninutes  if  it  has  been  well  managed.  Be  careful 
that  the  place  is  not  too  hot;  now  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a 
batter  so  stiff  it  cannot  be  stirred  with  a  spoon;  then  turn  it  out  on 
a  moulding  board  well  dredged  with  flour,  and  before  kneading  it 
add  a  piece  of  lard  the  size  of  a  large  apple;  mix  this  well  into  the 
dough.  After  a  thorough  kneading  and  working,  keeping  the  dough 
just  so  it  will  not  sjtick  to  the  hands,  make  it  into  small  loaves, 
put  them  in  well-greased  pans,  and  set  them  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise  again.  When  risen  to  nearly  double  their  bulk,  put  into  oven 
in  a  good  even  heat  and  bake  as  quickly  as  possible.  The  bread 
will  be  whiter  and  nicer  for  a  steady,  even  heat.  The  time  will 
vary  according  to  the  size  of  loaves.  When  done,  brush  each  loaf 
over  with  a  little  melted  butter,  as  this  makes  the  crust  rich  and 
delicious,  and  prevents  it  from  hardening.  This  makes  about  6 
good-sized  loaves. — Mrs.  Joseph  Dunlop,  Bartlett,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Dissolve  yi  teaspoon  of  salt  in  1  cup  of 
scalding  water  and  beat  in  gradually  enough  flour  to  mak»  a  soft 
dough.  Beat  for  10  minutes,  cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  for  8 
hours.  Now  stir  a  teaspoon  of  salt  into  a  pt.  of  lukewarm  milk 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter  before  working  it  into  the 
risen  dough.  Mix  thoroughly,  cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise  until  light.  Turn  into  a  wooden  bowl  and  knead  in  enough 
flour  to  make  the  batter  of  the  consistency  of  ordinary  brc*d 


76  BREAD 

dough.  Make  into  loaves  and  set  these  to  rise  and  when  light 
bake. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  III. 

ENTIRE   WHEAT    BREAD    (From    Compressed    Yeast)— 

With  1  qt.  of  lukewarm  water  dissolve  1  cake  of  compressed  yeast, 
3  tablespoons  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  2  teaspoons  of  salt  and  2 
tablespoons  of  butter.  When  thoroughly  dissolved  add  about  8 
cups  of  entire  or  whole-wheat  flour,  enough  to  (make  a  stiff  dough, 
kneading  until  it  works  clean  from  the  hands.  Set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  for  about  3  hrs.  Then  work  well  and  let  it  stand  till 
light,  knead  into  4  loaves  and  place  in  well-greased  pans.  Grease 
the  top  to  prevent  a  crust  forming,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and  let  stand 
till  light — 1^  hrs.  Bake  for  35  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

BRAIDED  BREAD.— When  bread  dough  is  ready  to  shape 
into  loaves,  divide  it  into  quarters  or  eighths,  knead  slightly  and 
roll  the  strands  evenly,  prick  with  a  fork,  twist  and  braid.  Place 
each  braided  loaf  in  a  floured  pan  to  rise  until  very  light.  Brush 
over  the  top  with  the  yolk  of  a  well-beaten  egg,  to  which  a  table- 
spoon of  cold  water  has  been  added  and  sprinkle  with  poppy  seeds. 
Bake  at)OUt  an  hr. — Mrs.  Alex.  Drexel,  Park  Ridge,  III. 

BRAN  BREAD.— 1  pt.  of  standard  wheat  bran,  ^  pt.  of  white 
flour,  ^  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  these  together  well.  Add  1%  cups  of 
sweet  milk,  3  teaspoons  of  molasses,  }4  teaspoon  of  soda.  Pat  into 
a  loaf  and  bake  for  1  hr.  Pains  must  be  taken  not  to  get  the  crust 
of  this  too  stiff,  for  it  will  not  cut  well — the  crumb  separating 
from  the  crust — and  the  bread  is  not  then  so  attractive  when 
served.  This  is  a  matter  of  the  baking  entirely. — ^Mrs.  J.  Dono- 
hoe>  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Mix  together  thoroughly  1  qt.  clean  bran, 
1  pt.  white  flour,  1  pt.  sweet  milk,  6  oz.  New  Orleans  imolasses,  1 
beaten  egg,  2  teaspoons  bicarbonate  soda.  Bake  in  gem  tin. — Mrs. 
Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BROWN  BREAD.— Mix  together  2  cups  of  graham  flour,  1 
cup  cornmeal,  1  teaspoon  salt,  J^  cup  molasses  and  2  cups  sour 
milk  in  which  has  been  dissolved  1  teaspoon  of  soda.     Bake  in  a 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  11 

VARIATION  I. — Mix  2  cups  graham  flour,  1  cup  white  flour, 
Yi  cup  of  English  walnuts,  1  cup  brown  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  salt 
with  2  cups  sour  milk  in  which  2  level  teaspoons  of  soda  has  been 
dissolved.  Bake  1  hr.  in  a  moderate  oven.  Nice  for  sandwiches. — 
Mrs.  C.  K.  Wurtz,  216  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111- 

VARIATION  II  (Excellent  Brown  Bread).— 3  cups  of  boiling 
hot  water,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  water,  ^  cup  of  mo- 
lasses and  a  scant  teaspoon  of  salt;  thicken  graham  flour  to  a 
rather  stiff  batter.  When  cold  enough  not  to  scald,  stir  in  1  pt. 
of  yeast  or  bread  sponge.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Knead 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  makes  2  loaves. — ^Mrs.  Ella 
Fairchild,  Palatine,  111. 

VARIATION  III.— Mix  thoroughly  together  2  cups  of  cold 
left-over  oatmeal  porridge,  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  heaping  tea- 
spoon soda.  Add  1  cup  of  liquid  yeast  and  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.  Bake  1^  hrs.  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Ella  Fair- 
child,  Palatine,  111. 

VARIATION  IV. — Scald  J^  cup  each  of  cornmeal  and  oat- 
jmeal  with  2  cups  milk;  when  cool  add  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  yeast, 
and  1  cup  milk;  add  a  teaspoon  salt  and  knead  down.  Let  stand 
over  night  and  put  in  pans  in  the  morning  without  kneading. — 
Mrs.  Chas.  Eggleson,  Wheeling,  111. 

VARIATION  V. — Add  1  teaspoon  soda  to  1  cup  molasses  and 
stir  utitil  it  looks  like  molasses  candy,  add  2  cups  sweet  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  3  cups  graham  flour,  1  cup  white  flour  in  which  have 
been  sifted  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
bake  very  slowly  for  2  hrs. — Mrs.  Waldon  Emmery,  Glencoe,  111. 

VARIATION  VI. — ^Add  2  beaten  eggs  to  1  cup  brown  sugar, 
mix  well  and  add  3  cups  sour  milk,  2  teaspoons  salt,  2  teaspoons 
soda,  lJ/2  cups  white  flour,  4  cups  graham  flour.  Beat  all  together 
for  5  minutes.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  This  makes  a  large  quantity 
and  half  of  the  quantities  may  be  used. — Mrs.  Jane  Evers,  Win- 
netka.  111. 

NEVER-FAIL  BROWN  BREAD.— Mix  together  1  cup  gra- 
ham flour,  5^  cup  white  flour,  Y^  cup  cornmeal,  and  add  1  cup  sour 
milk,  in  which  a  scant  teaspoon  of  soda  is  dissolved.     Bake  1  hr- 


• 


78  BREAD 

in  slow  oven  in  a  lb.  coffee  can.  Grease  can  well  and  bake  with 
cover  on  about  1  hr. — Mrs.  C.  C,  Cleveland,  Bartlett,  111. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD.— Mix  together  1  cup  corn- 
meal,  1  cup  graham  flour,  1  cup  white  flour,  J4  cup  molasses*  1 
small  teaspoon  salt,  a  level  teaspoon  soda  and  1^4  cups  sweet 
milk.    Steam  2j4  hrs. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Rawlings,  Glen  View,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Mix  thoroughly  together  2  dips  graham 
flour,  a  little  salt  and  1  cup  raisins;  add  1  cup  milk,  ^  cup  molasses 
in  which  a  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Beat  vigorously 
and  steam  3  hrs.  and  bake  J^  hr. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Westinghous,  May- 
fair,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — ^^Mix  ^  cup  molasses  and  2  teaspoons  soda 
thoroughly  together;  add  1^  cups  buttermilk,  1  tablespoon  salt,  2 
tablespoons  lard,  3  cups  graham  flour  and  1  lb.  dates.  Mix  well 
and  steam  3  hrs. — Mrs.  Charles  Ellis,  Winnetka,  111. 

CORN  BREAD,  INDIAN  BREAD  OR  JOHNNY  CAKE.— 

To  2  cups  cornmeal  add  1  cup  flour,  J/^  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda. 
Sift  these  ingredients  well,  then  add  ^  cup  melted  lard  and  enough 
buttermilk  or  sour  milk  to  make  a  batter,  as  for  griddle  cakcf. 
Pour  into  well-greased  pan  ab.out  ^  inch  deep,  and  bake  15  min- 
utes.— Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Sift  together  1  cup  white  flour  and  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  add  1  cup  of  cornmeal,  1  tablespoon  of 
shortening  and  2  beaten  eggs;  mix  to  a  batter  with  1  cup  milk  and 
add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Beat  and  turn  into 
a  buttered  tin.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Frank  R.  Webber, 
1001  S.  7th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CORN  BREAD. — Dissolve  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  1  cup  sour 
milk;  add  ^  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  beaten,  J4  cup  melted  lard,  2  cups 
cornmeal  and  1  cup  flour.  Beat  thoroughly  and  turn  into  a  greased 
pan.  Bake  30  minutes. — Mrs.  Leslie  V.  Warren,  211  S.  8th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

CHESTERFIELD  CORN  BREAD.— This  is  to  the  South 
what  fried  mush  is  to  the  North.  To  1  cup  of  cornmeal  add  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  1  scant  tablespoon  of  baking  powder;  mix  well, 
then  stir  in  water  enough  to  make  a  batter  that  can  be  poured  out; 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  79 

have  a  large  pie-pan  with  1  tablespoon  of  lard  in  the  oven  getting 
hot  while  preparing  the  batter.  Pour  the  batter  in  the  hot  pan 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  nicely  browned.  This  can  also  be 
baked  on  top  of  the  stove  on  a  hot,  well-greased  skillet,  and  turned 
to  brown  on  both  sides  evenly. — Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin, 
111. 

NEW  ENGLAND  BROWN  BREAD.— Scald  1  cup  of  corn- 
meal  with  just  enough  boiling  water  to  moisten  it.  Let  stand 
about  10  minutes,  then  add  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  soft  bat- 
ter. When  lukewarm  add  y^  cup  yeast  (liquid),  y^  cup  molasses, 
^  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  soda  and  1  pt.  of  rye  flour.  Beat  well, 
cover  and  let  rise  until  the  mixture  cracks  on  top,  then  stir  it 
down,  pour  into  buttered  and  floured  tins,  let  rise  again,  sprinkle 
the  top  lightly  with  flour  and  bake  2  hrs.  in  a  moderate  oven. — 
Mrs.  C.  Buttercup,  Bensen,  111. 

NORTH  DAKOTA  BROWN  BREAD.— Mix  well  together  1 
pt.  of  cornmeal,  1  pt.  of  graham  flour,  1  pt.  sour  milk,  y^,  cup  mo- 
lasses, 1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  2  teaspoons  soda.  Steam  3  hrs.; 
bake  20  minutes. — Mrs.  Joseph  Dunlop,  Bartlett,  111. 

PUMPKIN  CORN  BREAD.— Mix  well  together  1  qt.  of  corn- 
meal,  sifted,  1  pt.  of  cooked  pumpkin,  2  tablespoons  of  lard,  2  tea- 
spoons of  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Work  all  together, 
make  in  pones  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — ^Mrs.  C.  E.  Clarkson, 
Wilmette,  111. 

RICHMOND  CORN  BREAD.— Put  2  tablespoons  of  lard  in 
a  small,  deep  tin  pan  and  place  in  a  hot  oven.  Beat  1  ^^%  thor- 
oughly in  another  dish;  add  y^  cup  sweet  milk  or  water,  and  then 
sift  1  cup  white  cornmeal,  1  scant  tablespoon  of  baking  powder 
and  a  little  salt.  Beat  well  and  then  pour  in  the  melted  lard  which 
had  been  placed  in  the  tin  pan  in  the  oven,  stir  again  and  pour 
into  the  hot  pan.  Some  like  a  slice  of  bacon  placed  on  top  of  the 
batter.  Bake  15  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  with  fried  fish  or 
chicken. — Mrs.  Alex.  Drexel,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

OLD  VIRGINIA  CORN  BREAD.— Take  1  pt.  of  cornmeal 
and  pour  over  it  a  pt.  of  very  hot  water;  add  54  teaspoon  salt  and 
a  heaping  tables-ppon  of  butter;  stir  well,  and  when  cool  add  3  well- 


80  BREAD 

beaten  eggs  and  1  qt.  of  sour  milk  with  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  it.  Bake  in  a  deep  pan  and  serve  quickly. — Mrs.  Almond  Case, 
Franklin,  111. 

RAISED  CORN  BREAD.— To  a  qt.  of  buttermilk  add  54  cup 
of  yeast;  set  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  1 
pt.  of  dry  bread  crumbs,  Yt.  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  soda, 
salt  and  cornmeal  enough  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  batter,  and 
stir  well.  Put  into  a  well-buttered  tin  pudding  form  or  bucket 
with  a  close-fitting  lid.  Let  stand  until  light,  place  the  ITucket  in 
a  pot  of  boiling  water,  steam  it  1^4  or  2  hrs. — Mrs.  C  J.  Jeffries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

STEAMED  CORN  BREAD.— Mix  1  cup  of  flour  with  3  cups 
of  Indian  meal,  also  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Then  mix  together  2 
cups  of  sweet  milk  and  1  of  sour,  and  2/3  cup  of  molasses.  Dis- 
solve a  teaspoon  of  soda  in  1  tablespoon  of  cold  water  and  stir 
into  the  milk  and  molasses;  then  add  the  liquid  to  the  dry  ingre- 
dients, beat  thoroughly  and  pour  into  a  buttered  2-qt.  tin.  Steam 
3  hrs.— Mrs.  D.  O.  Dooley,  Bensen,  111. 

CURRANT  BREAD.— Mix  together  2  cakes  of  yeast  dissolved 
in  lukewarm  water,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  let  foam  till  it  comes  to 
top.  A  package  of  each  of  raisins  and  currants.  V^  lb.  of  sugar,  2 
eggs.  1  qt.  of  water,  stir  in  sifted  flour  to  make  stiff.  Let  rise,  knead 
into  loaves,  let  rise  and  bake.  Put  butter  over  top  when  removed 
from  the  oven. — Mrs.  Frank  R.  Webber,  1001  S.  7th  Ave.,4jMay- 
wood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — When  bread  sponge  is  ready  to  mix  into 
dough,  take  4  cups  of  light  st>onge.  1  cup  of  lukewarm  water  or 
milk.  3  tablespoons  of  lard  or  butter.  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  a  little 
salt,  1  cup  of  currants,  1  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  1  teaspoon  each  of 
essence  of  lemon  and  cinnamon,  ^4  of  nutmeg,  grated.  Then  cover 
and  leave  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  after  which  proceed  as  for  other 
bread. — Mrs.  Andrew  Anderson,  Kenilworth,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Scald  1  cup  new  milk,  let  it  cool  and  add  2 
cups  potato  yeast  and  flour  enough  to  make  soft  batter,  set  in  warm 
place  to  rise  until  light,  then  add  1  cup  brown  sugar,  5^  cup  butter, 
1  cup  currants,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  a  little  nutmeg,  flour  enough  to 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK       "  81 

knead  soft;  let  rise  again.  When  light  tuck  into  tins,  set  in  a 
warm  place,  and  let  rise  about  2  hrs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — 
Mrs.  John  Barber,  Mayfair,  111. 

VARIATION  III.— 3  cups  flour,  ^  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sugar,  J^^ 

teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  cleaned  currants,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder;  mix  dry  ingredients,  rub  in  butter,  add  cur- 
rants and  lemon  rind,  mix  to  a  thick  batter  with  cold  milk;  turn 
into  a  well-greased  pan.  Bake  1  hr.  in  moderate  oven. — 'Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

GERMAN  BREAD,— To  2  cups  light  bread  dough  add  a  scant 
Vi  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  milk  in  which 
dissolve  J^  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  vanil- 
la, and  1  cup  of  seeded  raisins.  Stir  with  flour  as  stiff  as  bread 
dough,  let  rise,  mix,  let  rise  again,  then  mould  into  loaves,  score 
the  tops  several  times  with  a  sharp  knife,  brush  with  milk,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  let  rise,  and  when  light,  ibake. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Appleton, 
Bartlett,  111. 

GERMAN  CINNAMON  BREAD.— Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough 
with  1  qt.  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  baking 
powder,  2  teaspoons  sugar,  3  teaspoons  butter,  1  tz%,  1  pt.  of  sweet 
milk,  flavor  with  cream  or  vanilla.  Mix  all  into  a  soft  dough,  roll 
y^  inch  thick  and  put  dough  in  a  shallow  pan,  cover  top  with  a  mix- 
ture of  sugar,  cinnamon  and  melted  butter.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — 
Mrs.  James  Ellis,  Palatine,  111. 

GERMAN  SWEET  BREAD.— To  1  qt.  of  light  bread  sponge 
add  2  oz.  of  butter,  4  oz.  of  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  each  of  cinna- 
mon and  caraway  seed.  Knead  thoroughly,  let  rise,  knead  again 
10  minutes,  then  put  in  greased  'baking  pan,  brush  the  tops  with 
melted  butter,  and  when  light  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  E. 
D.  Adkins,  Wheeling,  111. 

GLUTEN  BREAD.— Make  a  sponge  with  3  cups  of  milk  or 
water,  lukewarm,  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  pt.  of  water  and  a  pt. 
of  gluten  flour,  when  light  add  Yz  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons 
"melted  butter,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  and  enough  gluten  flour  to 
make  batter  stiff  enough  to  knead.  Knead  until  simooth  and  elas- 
tic, form  into  loaves  and  bake  1  hr. — Mrs,  H.  B.  Sanborn,  Bart- 
lett, 111. 


82  BREAD 

GRAHAM  BREAD — Take  4  heaping  cups  of  graham  flour,  1 
teaspoon  of  salt,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  hot 
water  and  stirred  in  y^  cup  of  molasses  until  it  foams.  Add  enough 
milk  to  make  the  dough  as  stiff  as  cake  mixture;  put  it  into  2  pans 
and  bake. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Add  half  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar  to  1 
beaten  ^^z.  Beat  and  add  1  cup  of  buttermilk  or  sour  milk  and  2 
tablespoons  of  sour  cream.  Add  Ij^  cups  graham  flour,  mixed 
with  1  cup  white.  Beat  in  J4  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little 
hot  water.     Bake  slowly. — Mrs.  B.  Stiver,  Palatine,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— On  baking  day  take  out  2  cups  of  the 
sponge  which  'has  been  set  with  the  wheat  flour — after  the  first  ris- 
ing. Put  it  in  a  howl,  add  3  tablespoons  of  molasses,  1  pt.  of  gra- 
ham flour,  and  Yt.  pt.  of  wheat  flour;  knead  for  IS  minutes,  set  it  to 
rise  again  for  2  hrs.,  then  form  it  into  a  loaf  and  let  stand  again 
for  1  hr.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  ^  of  an  hr.  Graham  bread 
burns  so  easily  it  should  not  'be  put  into  a  hot  oven. — "Mrs.  E.  D. 
Adkins,  Wheeling,  111. 

GRAHAM  BREAD.-^At  noon  scald  2  cups  white  flour  and  let 
it  stand  until  lukewarm.  To  this  add  1  soaked  yeast  cake,  then  set 
in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  At  night  put  2^  qts.  warm  water,  1  cup 
sugar,  4  breadspoons  baking  syrup  and  about  Ij^  sifters  white 
flour,  with  the  sponge.  Finish  setting  with  graham  flour.  In  the 
morning  put  in  2  handfuls  salt,  and  stiffen  with  white  flour  and  set 
to  rise.  It  rises  faster  than  white  bread.  Put  in  pan  and  let  rise 
again.  This  will  make  5  or  6  loaves. — Mrs.  William  Barnes,  Bart- 
Ictt,  111. 

HOMINY  BREAD.— Boil  1  pt.  of  fine  hominy  until  soft;  when 
cool,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  3  tablespoons  of  cornmeal,  3  eggs 
well  beaten,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  1  pt.  of  milk.  Melt  a  teaspoon 
of  butter  in  a  baking  pan,  pour  in  the  batter  and  hake  in  a  quick 
oven  ahout  10  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  C  Clancy,  Kenilworth,  III. 

'  NUT  BREAD. — Mix  together  3^  cups  flour,  1  cup  brown  su- 
gar, 1  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  chopped 
walnuts,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  ^^^.  Let  stand  Y-^  hr.  Bake  25  or  30 
minutes. — Mrs.  Frank  Cress,  Park  Ridge,  111. 


COOIC  COUNTY  COOK  fiOOK  83 

VARIATION  I.— Sift  together  4  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder;  add  ^  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  chopped  wal- 
nuts, 3  eggs,  beaten  light.  Add  milk  enough  to  make  dough.  Knead, 
put  in  pan  ready  for  oven;  let  rise  for  20  minutes,  then  bake  IJ^ 
hrs.  in  a  slow  oven. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Putnam,  Wheeling,  111. 

GRAHAM  NUT  BREAD.— Preparation— Beat  2  eggs,  add  2 
cups  sour  m.ilk,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  1  cup  raisins, 
2  teaspoons  salt,  2  teaspoons  soda,  1  cup  white  flour,  adding  gra- 
ham flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Stir  well,  and  put  into  a  greased 
pan  (one  loaf  size).  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  1  hr. — Mrs.  Julius 
Casper,  Wheeling,  111. 

OATMEAL  BREAD.— Soak  2  cups  rolled  oats  in  1  qt.  hot 
water  (at  noon),  let  stand  until  night;  add  2/3  cup  molasses,  salt, 
yeast  cake,  1  qt.  flour.  Mix  into  loaf,  and  let  rise  till  morning. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  makes  2  loaves. — Mrs.  Chas. 
Johnston,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

RICE  BREAD.— Put  1  qt.  milk  and  water  over  the  fire  to 
,  boil;  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  when  boiling  stir  in  ^4  pt.  ground 
rice  (wet  with  a  little  milk).  Boil  up  2  or  3  minutes,  stirring  re- 
peatedly; pour  it  into  bread-pan  and  immediately  stir  in  as  much 
flour  as  possible  with  a  spoon.  After  it  is  cool,  add  a  gill  of  yeast 
and  let  stand  until  morning.  Then  knead  in  more  flour  until  the 
dough  ceases  to  stick  to  the  hands-  It  is  necessary  to  make  this 
dough  a  little  stiffer  than  if  no  rice  were  used,  else  there  will  be 
a  heavy  streak  through  the  loaf. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelly,  Winnetka,  111. 
111. 

RICE  BREAD.— 1  lb.  of  rice  simmered  in  3  qts.  of  water  till 
soft  and  water  absorbed;  4  lbs.  of  graham  flour,  salt,  and  yeast. 
When  the  rice  is  lukewarm  mix  in  most  of  the  flour,  salt  and  yeast; 
knead  until  smooth  and  shining;  let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place;  make 
it  up  into  loaves  with  balance  of  flour  and  bake  it  thoroughly. — 
Mrs.  Edith  Fairchild,  Glen  View,  111. 

LOUISIANA  RICE  PONE.— 1  pt.  of  boiled  rice  stirred  in  1 
pt.  of  milk  with  a  small  cup  of  cornmeal,  4  well-beaten  eggs,  a 
large  tablespoon  of  butter  and  lard  melted  together,  1  small  tea- 
spoon of  salt.    Beat  in  3  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  bake 


84  BREAD 

and  serve  in  ordinary  pans,  well  greased. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
tietka,  111. 

RYE  BREAD.— Put  2  qts.  of  rye  flour  into  a  stone  jar,  stir 
into  it  1  cup  of  yeast,  2  teaspoons  salt  and  enough  water  to  moisten 
well.  Let  it  rise  over  night  in  a  warm  place.  In  the  morning,  stir 
it  down  well.  Do  not  add  more  flour.  Put  into  the  pan  as  soon 
as  light.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SQUASH  BREAD.— To  1  cup  of  stewed  and  sifted  squash  add 
2  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon  ibutter,  melted,  1^ 
cups  of  scalding  milk;  when  cool  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter 
and  add  Yz  cup  liquid  yeast;  stir  quickly,  and  add  1  teaspoon  salt. 
Knead  20  minutes  and  set  to  rise.  Make  into  a  loaf  or  biscuits, 
let  rise  again  and  then  bake. — Mrs.  Ethan  Earle,  Mayfair,  111. 

BUNS. — Set  in  the  evening  a  pt.  of  warm  milk,  butter  the  size 
of  an  t^^,  Yt.  an  yeast  cake,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  bat- 
ter. Add  yeast  and  flour,  then  add  2  eggs,  J^  cup  sugar,  enough 
flour  to  roll  in  hands,  not  on  board.  After  mixing,  let  it  stand  till 
quite  light;  then  make  into  buns  and  let  them  stand  in  pan  before 
baking.  Bake  about  a  quarter  of  an  hr. — ^Mrs.  C.  C.  Cleveland,  Bart- 
lett.  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  qt.  bread  sponge,  1  cup  sugar,  Yi  cup  but- 
ter, 1  t^z,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  a  pinch  of  soda,  1  cup  of  cur- 
rants, mould  and  raise  this  dough  twice.  It  can  then  be  formed 
into  small  rolls  and  baked. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Sanborn,  Bartlett,  111. 

BAKERS*  BUNS.— Take  bread  sponge  ready  to  mould  into 
loaves,  put  it  on  a  plate  and  set  it  away  to  rise  for  about  4  or  5  hrs., 
then  add  1  cup  bread  dough,  Y^  cup  sugar,  lard  the  size  of  an  t^^,  1 
beaten  t^z,  1  cup  lukewarm  water,  and  let  rise  about  3  hrs.  more; 
make  into  buns  and  let  rise  9  hours  more.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 
The  bread  is  usually  moulded  in  loaves  about  10  in  the  morning. 
About  4  the  cup  of  dough  is  light,  then  at  9  at  night  make  into 
buns  and  bake  in  the  morning  for  breakfast. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Westing- 
hous,  Mayfair,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — At  noon  mix  together  3  mashed  potatoes,  1 
teaspoon  coffee  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour,  scald  with  1  cup  boiling 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  85 

■water;  when  cool  add  1/3  yeast  cake,  -which  has  been  dissolved  in 
54  cup  warm  water.  Let  stand  till  night,  then  take  1  pt.  sweet 
milk,  1  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  scald  together  and  let 
cool.  Then  stir  in  yeast  and  flour  enough  to  ^make  a  stiff  batter; 
let  rise  until  morning.  In  the  morning  mix  down  as  for  bread,  let 
stand  until  light;  mould  into  buns,  let  rise.  Bake  20  minutes. — 
Mrs.  M.  Anthony,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

CHELSEA  BUNS.— Mix  with  milk  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  2  teaspoons  shortening,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon, 
salt,  roll  out  a  little  over  ^  of  an  inch  thick,  and  spread  over  1 
tablespoon  granulated  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  butter  beaten  to  a 
cream;  roll  up,  cut  off  in  length  for  buns,  set  on  endg  and  bake  in 
quick  oven  in  2  pairs,  take  1  part  and  mix  with  all  fruit;  take  l4 
lb.  butter  and  rnix  into  other  half;  line  your  pan  bottom  and  sides 
with  this,  and  then  pack  in  the  fruit  mixture;  wet  the  edges  and 
put  on  top  crust,  prick  all  over  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven.  Take  from  1^  to  2  hrs.  to  bake. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Adams,  Frank- 
lin, 111. 

VARIATION  I. — When  making  bread,  reserve  some  dough 
from  the  last  mixing.  Roll  out  to  about  1  inch  thickness.  Butter 
it  generously  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Roll  up  like 
jelly,  roll  and  cut  in  about  1  inch  thick;  set  in  pan  to  rise  and  then 
bake,— ^Mrs-  Almond  Case,  Palatine,  111. 

GERMAN  BUNS.— Make  a  paste  with  4  cups  sifted  flour,  1 
teaspoon  salt  (small),  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  14  cup  butter,  % 
cup  lard,  1  egg  well  beaten;  mix  with  V2  milk,  %  water  to  a  dough, 
1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar.  Filling. — 1  egg,  1  cup 
white  or  brown  sugar,  %  cup  flour,  mix.  Roll  paste  out,  spread 
with  filling  and  roll  up  like  rolly-polly  pudding;  cut  in  slices  cross- 
wise; leave  softest  part  up  in  pan.  Bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs. 
•Ma-ry  Carpenter,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

HOT  CROSS  BUNS — Soak  ^  yeast  cake  at  noon,  stir  in  a 
thin  batter  about  3  o'clock,  then  in  the  evening  add  a  qt.  of  water 
and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise  over  night.  At  4  in  the  morning  add  2  eggs,  ^  cup  butter  and 
lard  mixed,  1  tablespoon  salt,  %  cup  sugar.  Mix  in  a  stiff  dough 
fhe  i^me  ^  bread,    Let  rise  dgftin  and  knead,    When  it  rises  Tn»)c« 


86  BREAD 

into  loaves  and  put  in  pans,  let  rise  and  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

IRISH  BUNS.— Put  2  cups  flour  in  dish,  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, 2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt,  rub  well  to- 
gether, beat  an  egg  in  a  cup,  fill  up  with  sweet  milk;  stir  into  flour; 
then  drop  into  a  hot  greased  pan.  Bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
— Mrs.  Julius  Casper,  Wheeling,  111, 

MILK  BUNS. — Let  2  cups  new  milk  come  to  a  boil,  then  stir 
in  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  1  heaping  tablespoon  lard;  when 
lukewanm  put  in  ^  yeast  cake  or  ^  liquid  yeast  and  enough  flour 
to  make  a  batter  as  thick  as  for  sponge  cake;  let  rise  till  morning 
and  keep  very  warm,  then  mix  as  stiff  as  soft  bread;  let  rise  again 
till  light  (but  before  mixing  in  the  morning  put  in  1  tgg  and  a 
little  salt);  when  very  light  take  out  on  bake  board  and  roll  out  l^ 
inch  thick;  cut  in  round  cakes,  butter,  turn  over  double  and  pinch 
ends.  Let  rise  1  hr.;  bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Putnam, 
Wheeling,  111. 

SCOTCH  CURRANT  BUN.— ^  lb.  flour,  H  lb.  sugar,  3  lbs. 
blue  raisins,  2  lbs.  currants,  %  lb.  orange  peeU  ^  lb.  almonds,  5^ 
oz.  ground  ginger,  ^  oz.  cinnamon,  ^  oz.  Jamaica  ginger,  ^  tea- 
spoon black  pepper,  1  small  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cream  tar- 
tar, 1  small  cup  sweet  milk;  prepare  the  fruit  carefully,  and  moist- 
en with  the  milk,  only  sufficient  milk  should  be  used  to  bind  in- 
gredients together;  then  prepare  this  paste  to  line  the  cake  tins, 
1J4  cups  flour,  J4  lb.  butter,  %  teaspoon  baking  powder,  mix  but- 
ter into  flour,  add  baking  powder  and  enough  cold  water  to  make 
a  firtm  paste;  roll  out  rather  thin  and  cut  out  a  piece  for  bottom  of 
tin,  also  one  for  top;  roll  out  the  scraps  into  a  long-shaped  piece, 
have  a  cake-tin  well  greased,  put  the  paste  in  the  bottom,  then  line 
sides  and  pack  in  mixture  of  fruit  tightly  as  possible;  press  into 
corners  firmly,  turn  in  an  edge  of  paste,  wet  it  and  put  on  top  of 
paste,  put  on  loosely  to  avoid  cracks;  when  the  mixture  begins  to 
cook,  brush  top  with  whites  of  eggs,  prick  over  this  with  fork,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  4  hrs.  This  will  keep  a  year  and  improves 
with  age. — Mrs.  Edith  Fairchild,  Glen  View,  111. 

SPANISH  BUN.— Cream  together  2  eggs,  keeping  out  white 
of  1  for  icing,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  butter  lize  of  an  egg,  1  level 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  87 

teaspoon  cinnamon,  a  little  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons 
cream  tartar;  add  1  cup  milk  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter, 
not  too  stiff. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Sherman,  Palatine,  111. 

ICING. — Take  the  white  of  the  egg  you  save,  beat  it  very 
light  and  thicken  with  1  cup  brown  sugar;  when  the  cake  is  done 
spread  it  on  the  top  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown  slightly. — 
Mrs.  H.  A.  Sherman,  Palatine,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cream  together  1  cup  brown  sugar,  J4  cup 
butter,  3  eggs.  Reserve  whites  of  2  for  icing.  Beat  the  rest  of 
eggs  light.  1  cup  sweet  (milk,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  1  teaspoon 
soda  sifted  through  2  cups  flour,  j^  teaspoon  cinnamon,  %  tea- 
spoon ground  cloves.  Take  whites  of  eggs,  beat  light,  and  add  1 
cup  brown  sugar,  just  a  little  cinnamon  and  cloves,  beat  all  togeth- 
er and  spread  over  cake;  after  it  is  baked,  set  it  in  the  oven  again 
to  brown. — Mrs.  Castle  Hopkins,  Winnetka,  111. 

BISCUIT 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS.— 4  level  cups  flour,  1  level 
teaspoon  salt,  2  level  tablespoons  shortening,  2^  level  tablespoons 
baking  powder,  about  Ij^  cups  milk.  The  shortening  (may  be 
sweet  lard,  or  dripping  or  butter,  or  a  mixture.  See  that  the  short- 
ening is  soft  enough  to  rub  easily.  Place  the  board,  mixing  knife, 
rolling  pin,  cutter  and  pan  ready,  and  see  that  the  oven  is  hot.  Sift 
the  salt  and  flour  into  a  bowl;  rub  the  shortening  into  it  with  the 
fingers;  sift  in  the  baking  powder  and  mix  well.  Mix  into  a  soft 
dough  with  the  milk,  using  a  broad-bladed,  flexible  knife,  in  order 
to  cut  and  mix  it  quickly.  Flour  the  board  lightly,  turn  the  dough 
out  and  roll  it  round  to  coat  it  with  flour.  Knead  just  enough  to 
make  the  dough  smooth,  roll  out  about  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  into 
small  biscuits.  Place  them  in  the  pan,  wet  the  tops  only  with 
milk  or  water  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  20  minutes.  The  secret 
of  success  is  a  slack  dough,  quick  mixing  and  little  handling. 

Conclusion. — Soft  wheat  flours  yield  the  tenderest  biscuits 
when  conditions  are  uniform. 

Remarks. — When  strong  and  weak  flours  are  made  slack 
enough  for  biscuits,  and  both  arc  of  the  same  slackness,  the  differ- 
ence in  handling  quality  is  very  noticeable.  The  strong  flour 
dough  'has  a  silky  smoothness,  which  is  much  easier  to  handle. 


88  BREAD 

SUMMARY. — 1. — Other  things  being  equal,  soft  wheat  flours 
inake  more  tender  milk  biscuits  than  strong  wheat  flour. 

2. — Given  a  strong  wheat  flour  dough  and  a  soft  wheat  flour 
dough  of  equal  slackness  and  suitable  for  m^ilk  biscuits,  the  soft 
wheat  flour  dough  is  the  easier  to  handle. 

3. — At  the.  present  prices  of  the  different  flours  the  strong 
wheat  'biscuits  cost  more  than  soft  wheat  flour  biscuits. 

4. — It  is  possible  that  a  larger  proportion  of  fat  used  with  the 
strong  wheat  flour  would  yield  biscuits  of  tenderness  equal  to 
those  of  soft  wheat  flour,  but  the  cost  of  fat  makes  that  method 
of  improvement  a  disadvantage. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  pt.  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted 
with  it,  1  tablespoon  butter  rubbed  in  flour,  rub  till  crumbly,  little 
salt,  stir  in  sweet  milk  until  soft,  flatten  with  hand  on  well  floured 
board,  then  cut.  Never  roll  biscuit  dough. — Mrs.  William  Myers, 
Franklin,  111. 

VARIATION  II.^Fill  a  qt.  sifter  with  fine  flour,  add  a  heap- 
ing teaspoon  of  soda  and  2  of  cream  O'f  tartar.  Sift  the  ingredients 
through  the  sifter  once  or  twice  into  a  large  pan,  add  a  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  rub  in  a  lump  of  sweet  fresh  lard,  the  size  of  an  egg;  mix 
into  a  nice  soft  dough  with  sour  milk.  Roll  out,  cut  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Westinghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

VARIATION  III.— Sift  1  qt.  of  flour  with  2  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  and  1  of  salt.  Mix  in  2  tablespoons  of  shortening; 
add  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Put  it  on  a  floured 
board  and  pat  lightly  1  inch  thick.  Bake  IS  minutes  in  hot  oven. 
The  secret  of  good  biscuits  is  light  handling  and  no  kneading. — 
Mrs.  F.  E.  Glower,  1103:  S.  7th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  IV.— Sift  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt  in  1  qt.  of  flour;  add  1  cup  of  shortening,  milk  to 
make  a  soft  dough,  handle  very  little.  Bake  20  minutes. — Mrs. 
Frank  R.  Webber,  1001  S.  7th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

ABERNETHY  BISCUITS.— Rub  1  oz.  of  butter  into  1  lb.  of 
flour,  adding  a  dessertspoon  of  sugar  and  l^  oz.  of  caraway  seed. 
Mix  all  together,  with  2  eggs,  if  necessary;  add  a  little  milk.     Roll 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  89 

the  batter  out,  knead  it  into  stmall,  round  cakes,  making  holes  with 
a  fork  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. — 
Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

ARROW-ROOT  BISCUITS.— Beat  ^  lb.  of  butter  to  a 
cream;  add  gradually  3  well-beaten  eggs,  %  lb.  of  flour,  ^  lib.  sifted 
sugar,  and  3  oz.  of  arrow-root  pounded  to  crush  the  lumps.  Mix 
all  smoothly  together.  Drop  in  small  pieces  on  a  well-oiled  tin. 
Bake  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

BRAN  BISCUITS.— 2  cups  of  cleaned  wheat  bran,  1  cup  of 
white  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  soda,  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  add  5^  cup  of  molasses  and  lYi  cups  of  sweet 
milk.  Bake  in  gem  tins  in  a  slow  oven  for  30  minutes. — Mrs. 
Ethan  Earle,  Mayfair,  III. 

BROWN  BISCUITS.— Sift  2  cups  flour,  3  tablespoons  baking 
powder  and  1  teaspoon  salt  into  a  mixing  bowl,  rulb  in  thoroughly 
2  generous  tablespoons  butter  or  lard,  then  add  1  cup  of  fine  bran; 
wet  with  sweet  milk,  roll  to  ]^  inch  in  thickness,  cut  as  tea  bis- 
cuits  and  bake   in   quick  oven. — ^Mrs.    Ella   Fairchild.   Palatine,   III. 

BISCUIT  FOR  CAMPERS  (Will  Keep  for  Months).— Make 
a  sponge  about  3  or  4  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  hy  adding  a  cake  of 
yeast  foam  which  has  previously  'been  softened  in  a  little  luke- 
warm water  to  a  pt.  of  water  in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled 
with  sufficient  good  bread  flour  stirred  in  to  make  batter  drop  in 
chunks  from  the  spoon  and  will  not  run.  Beat  thoroughly  and 
let  rise  in  a  warm  place  until  about  9  or  10  o'clock  at  night.  The* 
lighter  it  gets  the  better.  Add  a  pt.  of  lukewarm  water,  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  a  bit  of  lard  the  size  of  a 
hickory  nut.  Add  3  qts.  of  flour,  measured  before  sifting,  first  de- 
ducting therefroim  the  amount  used  for  the  sponge  in  the  after- 
noon. Knead  with  the  hands  until  it  seems  elastic  when  poked 
with  the  finger,  and  does  not  stick  to  the  hands.  'Cover  and  let 
rise  over  night  in  a  warm  place,  75°,  and  in  the  morning  turn  out 
on  a  floured  hoard  and  pound  with  an  axe  for  20  minutes  to  pound 
all  the  flour  in  possible.  Roll  out  into  squares  about  2  inches 
square.  Place  on  a  greased  baking  sheet.  Let  rise  until  about 
double  in  size  or  until  very  light.  Bake  about  J^  hr.  in  a  moder- 
ately hot   oven.     Leave   in   a  warming   oven   or   about  the   stove 


90  BREAD 

somewhere  to  dry  out  thoroughly  for  a  day  or  two.  Keep  in  a 
dry  place  and  when  wanted  for  use  roll  over  once  or  twice  in  cold 
water  and  drain  from  one  side  and  place  on  a  plate  in  the  oven 
and  it  will  puff  up  like  freshly  ihaked  bread  and  be  crisp  and  light. 
—Mrs.  C.  K.  Wurtz,  216  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CHOCOLATE  BISCUITS.— Cover  3  large  baking-pans  with 
paper  that  has  been  well-oiled  with  washed  butter.  Sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar.  Melt  in  a  cup  1  oz.  of  chocolate.  Add  to  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs  Yz  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  and  beat  until  light  and 
firm.  Add  the  melted  chocolate  and  beat  a  few  minutes  longer. 
Add  f4  cup  of  sifted  flour  and  stir  in  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  The  whites  and  flour  must  be  cut  in  as  lightly  as  possible 
and  with  very  little  stirring.  Drop  the  mixture  in  teaspoons  on 
the  buttered  paper.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  the  cakes  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  14  or  15  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

DELAWARE  BISCUIT.— To  every  lb.  of  flour  add  ly^  oz. 
of  lard,  y^  teaspoon  yeast  powder,  pinch  of  salt  and  6  oz.  of  cold 
water.  Work  30  minutes  with  bread  worker  or  1  hr.  can  be  kneaded 
with  the  hands.  Make  into  small  balls,  flatten  down  a  little;  prick 
with  a  table  fork  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  These  biscuits  are 
elegant  for  lunch  with  chicken  salad. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Cleveland,  Bart- 
lett,  111. 

EGG  BISCUIT.— 1  cup  yeast,  1  qt.  water  or  milk,  1  cup  short- 
ening, a  little  sugar,  salt  and  soda,  2  eggs;  wet  up  soft  at  night;  in 
the  morning  put  on  a  board  and  cut  with  a  small  cutter  and  let 
rise,  and  bake  20  minutes. — Mrs.  D.  O.  Dooley,  Bensen,  111. 

FRUIT  BISCUITS.— Mix  graham  flour  with  just  enough  of 
scalded  figs  to  \make  an  adherent  dough  by  much  kneading;  roll 
or  cut  into  'biscuits  ^  inch  thick,  and  2  or  3  inches  square.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

HOT  ROLL  BISCUITS.— Mix  well  6  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  2  tablespoons  lard  or  butter,  2  pinches  of  salt; 
make  a  soft  dough  and  roll  out  thin  and  spread  with  this  filling; 
1  cup  of  white  sugar,  1  o.^^,  beaten  well;  roll  like  a  jelly  roll  and 
cut  in  slices  1  inch  thick;  flour  the  pans  well  and  bake  in  a  hot 
ov^n, — Mrs.  Erjiest  P.  Dean,  Glen  View,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  91 

LUNCH  BISCUIT — Sift  together  4  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  and  add  2  tablespoons  currants,  1 
cup  milk.  Mix  54  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter  to  a  cream; 
add  2  beaten  eggs  and  milk.  Mix  soft  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — 
Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  111. 

MARYLAND  BISCUIT.— ^4  lb.  butter,  to  1  qt.  of  flour  and  1 
teaspoon  salt.  Rub  the  butter  well  into  the  flour;  then  add  suffi- 
cient water  or  milk  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  which  must  be  worked 
until  perfectly  smooth.  Prick  each  biscuit  with  a  fork  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven. — ^Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  111. 

MILK  BISCUITS.— Sift  1  cup  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  and  J4  teaspoon  salt.  Add  ys  cup  milk,  mixing  gradually 
with  a  knife  to  a  soft  dough.  Ij^  teaspoons  shortening  should  be 
rubbed  into  the  flour  before  adding  the  milk.  Turn  out  on  a 
slightly  floured  board,  knead  to  make  the  outside  smooth,  roll  or 
press  about  K  of  an  inch  thick  and  cut.  Place  in  a  greased  baking 
tin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about*  30  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  Buttercup, 
Bensen,  111. 

MINUTE  BISCUITS.— One  pt.  sour  or  buttermilk,  1  tea- 
spoon soda,  V/s  teaspoons  cottolene,  flour  to  make  soft  dough. 
Have  dough  just  stiff  enough  to  handle;  mix,  roll  and  cut  out  rap- 
idly, with  as  little  handling  as  possible.  Bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

POTATO  BISCUITS.— Add  a  tablespoon  eadh  of  flour  and 
butter  to  mashed  potatoes  and  rub  thoroughly  together,  roll  out 
and  cut  as  biscuit  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done  to  a  light 
brown,  cut  Qpen,  butter  and  eat  warm. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — To  2  cups  fresh  mashed  potatoes  add  J^  cup 
sour  milk,  J^  teaspoon  soda,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough; 
roll  out  to  14  an  inch  and  cut  in  cakes.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs. 
Joseph  Dunlop,  Bartlett,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — 3  cups  sifted  flour,  2  cups  mashed  potatoes, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Work  the 
potatoes  into  the  flour  and  cut  in  squares  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. — Mrs.  C.  Buttercup,  Bensen,  111. 


92  BREAD 

PAN-AMERICAN  RICE  BISCUITS^Beat  ^  lb.  of  butter 
to  a  cream,  stir  in  Yi  I'b.  rice  flour  and  Ya,  lb.  sugar,  and  moisten 
with  2  well-beaten  eggs.  Roll  out  the  paste,  shape  with  a  round 
paste  cutter  into  small  cakes  and  bake  from  12  to  18  minutes  in  a 
slow  oven. — ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

SCOTCH  TEA  BISCUITS.— 1  saucer  flour  mixed  with  1  cup 
dark  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  egg,  unbeaten,  1  teaspoon  soda,  salt, 
butter;  when  cool  break  the  ^%%,  then  stir  in  sugar  and  flour  and 
soda.     Mix  middling  stiff. — Mrs.  Alex.  Drexel,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

SODA  BISCUITS.— Mix  4  cups  flour,  1  cup  cream,  1  cup 
sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  creaan  tartar,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon 
salt.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — ^Mrs.  H.  B.  Sanborn,  Bartlett,  111. 

SQUASH  BISCUIT.— 1  cup  squash,  ^  cup  sugar,  J4  cup  yeast, 
1  cup  milk,  Y^  teaspoon  soda,  and  butter  the  size  of  an  t.^^\  mix 
early  in  the  (morning  and  they  will  be  ready  for  tea. — Mrs.  C.  C. 
Clancy,  Kenilworth,  111. 

GERMAN  COFFEE  CAKE  OR  GERMAN  KAFFEE 
KUCHEN. — Scald  1  qt.  of  sweet  milk,  and  IH  cups  of  sugar,  nut- 
meg to  taste,,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  salt.  Let  cool  until  about  blood 
heat  and  add  2  cakes  compressed  yeast,  dissolved  in  J^  cup  luke- 
warm water,  1  cup  of  half  lard  and  butter  melted  (gives  better  fla- 
vor   th«an   all    lard   or    butter).     Add    enough    flour    to    make    stiff 

enough  to  beat  with  spoon,  then  add  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract 
and  1  ^z%'  Beat  until  it  will  not  stick  to  spoon  or  about  15  min- 
utes. Set  in  moderate  warm  place  out  of  draft,  until  it  doubles  in 
size.  Warm  the  pans  and  grease  with  equal  parts  of  lard  and 
butter.  Make  into  loaves,  filling  the  pans  half  full,  and  set  to  rise, 
until  it  is  even  with  top  of  pan.  Just  before  baking  sprinkle  2  level 
teaspoons  of  cinnamon  and  sugar  oh  the  top.  Raisins  and  citron 
peel  may  be  added  if  desired.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  will 
make  6  coffee  cakes. — Mrs.  F.  E.  Glower,  1103  S.  7th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Take  1  qt.  of  bread  sponge,  beat  in  1  egg;  ^ 
cup  sugar,  spices  if  desired,  and  flour  enough  to  lift  out  of  bowl. 
Sponge  must  be  softer  than  bread  dough;  knead  2  minutes;  sprin- 
kle cinnamon  and  sugar  on  top  with  a  little  flour  and  a  few  lumps 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  93 

of  butter;  over  this  sprinkle  a  little  water  to  prevent  the  top  from 
scorching, — ^Jane  Parker,  803  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111.       ^ 

VARIATION  II.— -Dissolve  1  cake  of  compressed  yeast  in  2 
cups  of  lukewarm  milk  and  ad<i  2  cups  flour,  put  away  in  a  warm 
place  until  very  light;  add  3  pts.  of  flour,  deducting  for  the  2  cups, 
1  beaten  egg,  ^2  teaspoon  of  salt,  %  grated  lemon,  ^/^  cup  butter, 
1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  raisins,  34  cup  currants.  Knead  for  3  minutes, 
turn  out  on  a  flat  cake  tin,  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts,  let  rise  and 
bake.— Mrs.  C.  Wurtz,  212  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  CRACKERS.— Mix  fresh-ground  wheat- 
meal  with  pure  soft  water  into  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  and  cut  the 
mass  into  thin  crackers  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  Be  careful  not  to 
burn. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

CRISP  CRACKERS.— To  freshen  crackers  which  have  be- 
come stale,  spread  thickly  with  butter,  place  in  a  dripping  pan  and 
brown  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Conklin.  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CRISPED  CRACKERS.— Split  butter  crackers,  and  spread 
with  butter:  put  them  into  a  pan  buttered  side  up,  and  brown  in 
hot  oven.     Serve  with  soups. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

CRUMPETS. — 1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  J^ 
cup  butter.  1  egg,  Yi  teaspoon  soda,  2  tablespoons  sour  milk,  Xy^ 
cups  flour,  y^  teaspoon  allspice.  Mix  the  sugar,  butter,  egg  togeth- 
er, then  the  flour,  raisins,  spices;  add  to  the  above,  soda  dissolved 
in  sour  milk.  Make  a  rather  stiff  dough,  drop  with  a  teaspoon  on 
a  buttered  di^h  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Clarkson,  Wil- 
mette.  111. 

FADGE. — To  1  cup  wheat  flour  add  1  cup  cold  water;  mix 
and  beat  until  light,  pour  into  hot  buttered  gem  pans  and  bake  30 
or  35  minutes. — Mrs.  Jane  Evers,  Winnetka,  111. 

GEMS 

GEMS. — Pt.  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  little  salt,  tablespoon  butter  or  shortening.  Mix  up  and 
drop  into  gem  pans.  Put  in  1  egg,  flour  first,  then  shortening  and 
baking  powder;  then  sugar  and  salt,  then  98*^;  flouf  tQ  malce  stjff, 
— Mr*.  Frank  Cook,  Whiecljng,  III 


94  BREAD 

VARIATIOlJ  I.— To  y^  cup  sugar  add  2  tablespoons  butter,  1 
"ggi  1  Pt.  milk,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  1  teaspoon  soda,  flour  tu 
mix  as  stiff  as  cake;  can  be  cooked  in  baker  sheet.  Cut  in  squares 
or  in  muffin  rings. — Mrs.  Waldon  Emmery,  Glencoe,  111. 

BRAN  GEMS. — Cream  together  butter  size  of  an  egg,  Y^  cup 
brown  sugar  or  y^  cup  white  sugar;  add  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  flour, 
2  cups  bran,  a  little  salt,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water, 
1  cup  currants.  Bake  about  ^  minutes. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 2  cups  bran,  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda; 
beat  K  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar  and  2  eggs  together;  then  add  the 
IJ^  cups  sour  milk  ai.-  »  and  last  the  soda  sifted  in  the  flour. — 

Mrs.  Chas.  Eggleson,  Wheeling,  111. 

CORNMEAL  GEMS.— Beat  together  1  tz%>  W  cups  milk,  % 
cup  sugar,  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Then  mix  1  cup  corn- 
meal  and  }/2  cup  flour,  adding  a  little  at  a  time,  beat  well  for  at 
least  5  minutes;  then  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  egg,  and  bake 
in  gem  pans  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Ella  Fairchild,  Palatine,  111. 

GINGER  GEMS. — Mix  together  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sour 
cream,  I  egg,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  2J/^  cups  flour, 
a  little  salt;  bake  in  patty-pan  tins. — Mrs.  Chas.  Ellis,  Winnetka. 
111. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. — Sift  3  cups  graham  flour  with  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  and  J/^  spoon  of  salt;  add  1  egg,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup 
water.  Beat  well  and  pour  in  heated  gem  pans.  Bake  15  to  20 
minutes. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Rawlins,  Glen  View,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Mix  2  cups  graham  flour,  1  cup  white  flour, 
1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  a  little  salt,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder  and  sweet  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  or  use  1  tea- 
spoon soda  and  sour  milk.  Bake  either  in  a  loaf  or  gem  pans. — 
Mrs.  E.  C.  Westinghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — 1  tgg,  1^  cups  brown  sugar,  V/^  cups  sour 
cream,  pinch  of  salt,  1  small  teaspoon  cinnamon,  a  good  ^2  cup 
currants,  3  cups  graham  flour.  Beat  tgg  and  sugar  together,  add 
^p  tQ\ir  crearoi  s»lt,  cinnamon  and  currants;  beat  well  together, 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  95 

then  add  the  flour  in  which  the  soda  has  been  thoroughly  mixed. 
Bake  in  well-buttered  gem  rings. — Mrs.  Ella  Fairchild,  Palatine, 
111. 

HONEY  GEMS.— To  2  qts.  flour  add  3  tablespoons  melted 
lard,  y^  pt.  honey,  Yi.  pt.  molasses,  4  'heaping  teaspoons  brown  su- 
gar, 1^  level  tablespoons  soda,  1  level  teaspoon  salt,  J^  pt.  water, 
54  teaspoon  extract  vanilla. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Cleveland,  Bartlett,  111. 

OATMEAL  GEMS.— To  1  cup  cold  water  and  1  cup  sour  milk 
add  2y2  cups  fine  oatmeal,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  Yz 
teaspoon  soda. — Mrs.  D.  O.  Dooley,  Bensen,  111. 

RYE  GEMS. — Mix  together  1  cup  ;9f  cornmeal  and  1  cup  of 
rye.  Stir  into  the  mixed  meal  1^  cups  '^j^rice  water.  Beat  the 
latter  vigorously  for  10  or  15  minutes,  then  turn  into  hot  irons 
and  bake. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  No.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  GEMS.— 2  cups  of  whole  wheat  flour,  1 
pinch  of  salt,  1  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  ^zZi  I  cup  of  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Beat  for  1  minute  and  bake  in  gem  pans  for 
%  hr.— Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

JOLLY  BOYS.— Mix  together  thoroughly  1^  pts.  of  ryemcal, 
Yi  pt.  of  flour,  Yi.  cup  of  cornmeal,  2  pinches  of  cinnamon,  a  little 
salt,  and  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Add  1  well-beaten  egg; 
2  tablespoons  each  of  molasses  and  sugar,  and  enough  cold  water 
to  make  a  thick  batter.  Fry  in  hot  lard  1  heaping  tablespoon  at  a 
time  and  cook  until  well  browned. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries*  Winnetka, 
111. 

MUFFINS 

MUFFINS. — Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  and  Yi  cup  good 
shortening,  add  7  beaten  eggs,  a  large  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  flour  enough  to  inake  a  little  stiffer  than  cake  batter,  sifted 
with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  mufiin  tins. — ^Mrs.  Frank 
R.  Webber,  1001  S.  7th  Ave..  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cream  together  1  t%^y  1  cup  sugar  (white 
or  brown),  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder  sifted  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  nice  batter,  same 


96  BREAD 

as  for  cake.  Put  a  tablespoon  of  batter  in  each  muffin  ring  and 
bake.  These  are  nice  warm  or  cold. — Mrs.  C.  C.  •Clevelari'^,  Bart- 
lett,  III. 

BERRY  MUFFINS.— Sift  together  ^  cup  of  butter  and  2 
tablespoons  of  sugar  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Stir 
into  the  mixture  alternately  1  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  a  little  salt, 
2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  sift  in  1  pt.  of  flour.  When  smooth 
stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Stir  in  1  cup  of  fresh  black- 
berries or  blueberries,  thoroughly  cleaned,  and  sprinkle  with  su- 
gar. Pour  in  buttered  muffin-tins  and  bake  about  J^  'hr.  Serve 
warm. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

BERKSHIRE  MUFFINS.— Mix  dry  ^  cup  cornmeal,  J4  cup 
flour,  Yi  cup  cooked  rice,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  J^  teaspoon  salt;  add 
y'z  cup  scalded  milk,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  3  table- 
spoons leaking  powder.  Turn  milk  on  meal,  let  it  stand  5  minutes, 
add  rice  and  dry  material.  Add  beaten  yolk,  butter  and  white  of 
egg,  ibeaten  stiff. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Sanborne,  Bartlett,  111. 

BRAN  MUFFINS.— 'Sift  together  2  cups  flour,  1  tea&poon  salt, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  sugar;  add  2  eggs,  beaten 
separate,  1  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  butter.  Mix  dry  ingredients, 
then  butter,  yolks  of  eggs  and  milk,  lastly  beat  in  whites.  Drop 
in  tins  and  ^bake  in  quick  oven. — ^Mrs.  C.  E.  Westinghous,  Mayfair, 
111. 

VARIATION  I. — 'Cream  together  1  egg,  2  taiblespoons  sugar, 
y2  teaspoon  salt,  about  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  3J/^  teaspoons 
baking  powder  (level),  2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Beat  t^z 
very  light,  add  sugar,  milk  and  salt.  Sift  in  the  flour  and  baking 
powder  and  beat  well;  pour  in  the  butter,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
about  20  minutes. — ^Mrs.  M.  Anthony,  iDes  Plaines,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Cream  together  1  t^^,  Y^  cup  brown  sugar, 
Yi,  cup  butter  and  lard,  mixed,  1  cup  buttermilk,  2  cups  bran,  XY^ 
cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  Y2  cup  chopped  raisins  (1  cup  sour 
cream  may  be  used  instead  of  butter  and  lard).  Bake  in  muffin 
tins. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Adams,  Franklin,  111. 

BUTTERMILK  MUFFINS.- Mix  in  a  pt.  of  rich  buttermilk, 
enough  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  batter.    Add  1  tz^  beaten  in  a 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  97 

little  salt,  y-2.  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water. 
Bake  in  patty-pans  or  rings,  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

CHICAGO  MUFFINS.— Mix  together  1^  pts.  of  flour,  J^  pt. 
of  cornmeal,  2  teaspoons  of  'baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar 
and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Work  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  add  3 
beaten  eggs  and  1  pt.  of  milk  and  beat  the  whole  quickly  into  a 
firm  batter.  Have  the  griddle  hot  and  well  greased  to  receive  the 
muffin-rings  and  cook  to  a  nice  brown. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

CORNMEAL  MUFFINS.— Mix  together  1  cup  flour  Y^  cup 
cornmeal,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Add 
baking  powder  before  sugar,  y^  teaspoon  salt,  1  ^^^y  1  cup  milk, 
2  teaspoons  butter.  Mix  according  to  rule.  Bake  in  gem  pans. — 
Mrs.  Almond  Case,  Palatine,  111. 

CHESTNUT  MUFFINS.— Boil  1  qt.  of  chestnuts;  open  the 
shells  and  take  out  the  well  cooked  kernel;  press  them  at  once 
through  a  colander,  add  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  (beaten  with  ^  cup  milk,  and  Yz  cup  flour,  sifted  with  a  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Bake  in  12  hot  greased  gem  pans. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Adams,  Franklin, 
111. 

CRUMB  MUFFINS. — Brown  the  bread  in  the  oven  and  pound 
to  Ij^  cups  crumbs.  Add  1  qt.  milk,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar, 
Yi  cup  white  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Beat  well. 
— Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

DROP  MUFFINS.— To  2  cups  sifted  flour  add  2  cups  milk,  1 
tablespoon  baking  powder,  Y^  teaspoon  salt;  mix  together  till  quite 
stiff  and  foamy,  drop  in  hot  greased  mufiin  rings  and  cook  quickly. 
Easily  made,  requires  no  eggs,  and  are  light  and  delicious  and  a 
boon  to  a  busy  houscewife.  Can  be  stirred  up  at  the  last  minute. 
— Mrs.  Mary  Carpenter,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

,  DATE  MUFFINS.— Mix  together  Ya  cup  butter,  creamed,  1 
egg  well  beaten,  Y2  pound  dates,  stoned  and  chopped;  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  1  pt.  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Add  milk  and  flour 
alternately.  Bake  in  gem.  pans.  Will  make  12. — Mrs,  Julius  Cas- 
per, Wheeling,  111. 


98  ^  BREAD 

ECONOMY  MUFFINS.— Beat  the  egg  and  salt  until  light. 
Add  54  cup  sugar  and  beat;  add  1  tablespoon  of  lard  and  beat.  Sift 
in  ^2  cup  flour  and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  ^2  cup  milk, 
mix  and  beat  thoroughly;  then  beat  in  another  J^  cup  of  the  milk 
and  J4  cup  flour  and  beat.  Bake  in  a  well-greased  hot  muffin-tin 
in  a  hot  oven.  This  recipe  makes  eight  (8)  muffins. — Mrs.  J.  W. 
Marelius,  2329  Cornelia  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  MUFFINS.— Sift  together  1  cup  each  of 
wiheat  and  rye  flour,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  2 
level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Beat  1  egg  lightly,  add  large 
}i  cup  of  milk  and  stir  into  the  dry  ingredients;  add  3  tablespoons 
of  melted  butter  and  bake  in  hot  oven  25  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

.GRAHAM  MUFFINS.— 2  eggs,  ^  cup  sour  cream,  Yj  cup 
sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  white  flour,  %  teaspoon 
salt,  enough  graham  flour  to  make  stiff  batter.  Beat  the  sugar 
with  the  eggs;  add  the  sour  cream  and  salt;  sift  in  the  white  flour 
with  baking  powder;  mix  thoroughly,  and  then  add  enough  gra- 
ham flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Putman,  Wheeling, 
111. 

HONEY  MUFFINS.— Sift  together  VA  pts.  flour,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  and  J4  of  salt.  Work  in  2  tablespoons  of  butter; 
beat  and  add  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  honey  and  J^  pt.  of  milk.  Bake  in 
hot  oven. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

NEW  YORK  RYE  MUFFINS.— Sift  and  mix  1  pt.  of  rye 
flour  Yi  pt.  of  a  cornmeal,  }<2  pt.  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt;  work  in  1 
tablespoon  of  lard  and  butter,  and  add  2  beaten  eggs  with  1  pt. 
of  milk;  beat  into  a  firm  batter.  Grease  muffin-pans  and  fill  ^  of 
their  capacity.  Bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka, 
111. 

OATMEAL   MUFFINS.— Mix   thoroug^hly    together    J^    cup 
•rolled  or  flaked  oats,  1^4  cup  flour,  3^  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
^  cup  milk,  1  eggf  2  tablespoons  sugar,  J^  teaspoon  salt,  2  ta.ble- 
spoons  butter.    Mix  and  bake  in  muffin  rings. — Mrs.  Edith  Fair- 
child,  Glen  View.  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  99 

QUEEN  OF  MUFFINS.— Cream  together  J4  cup  butter,  54 
cup  sugar,  1  egg,  2  cups  flour,  ^  teaspoon  'baking  powder,  ^  cup 
milk;  cream,  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  egg,  add  milk  and  flour 
and  baking  powder  alternately.  Bake  in  buttered  gem  pans. — 
Mrs.  H.  A.  Sherman,  Palatine,  III. 

VARIATION  I. — ^Mix  well  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sour 
milk  or  buttermilk,  pinch  salt,  1  tablespoon  butter  or  lard,  1  small 
teaspoon  soda;  add  2  small  cups  graham  flour. — Mrs.  Castle  Hop- 
kins, Winnetka,  111, 

TWIN  MOUNTAIN  MUFFINS.— Cream  together  ^  cup  but- 
ter, ^  cup  granulated  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  1  egg,  well  beaten; 
add  ^  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  flour,  4  level  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der. Bake  in  buttered  tins  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Ella  Fairohild, 
Palatine,  111. 

RICE  MUFFINS.— Mix  6  cups  of  rice  flakes,  IH  cups  oi  flour, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt,  4  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon 
of  sugar,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2  cups  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  impli- 
ed Ko-nut.    Bake  25  minutes. — ^Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnekta,  111. 

TOASTED  ENGLISH  MUFFINS.— Open  the  sides  of  the 
muffin,  insert  the  toasting  fork  and  toast  lightly.  Then  pull  it 
apart,  lay  butter  on  each  half,  and  close  again.  Put  on  a  hot  plate. 
Serve  with  maple  syrup. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

SQUASH  MUFFINS.— Add  to  1  pt.  sifted  squash,  1  beaten 
^SS^  V2  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  3  pts.  flour,  Yz  cake  yeast, 
milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  not  quite  as  stiff  as  for  bread; 
beat  the  egg,  sugar  and  butter  with  the  squash.  Let  rise,  knead 
into  muffin  shapes,  let  rise  again  and  bake. — Mrs.  D.  O.  Dooley, 
Bensen,  111. 

POP-OVERS 

POP-OVERS.— Beat  4  eggs,  add  1  pt.  of  sifted  flour,  and  thin 
with  1  pt.  of  milk;  add  Vt  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter.  Beat  vigorously  for  10  minutes  and  pour  into  hot 
pop-over  cups  or  gem  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Gust. 
W.  Youngstedt,  403  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood',  111. 


100  BREAD 

ILLINOIS  POP-OVEKS.— Sift  twice  1  cup  of  flour;  add  to  it 
graduall\-  2  eggs?  mixed  thorougihly  together,  1  cup  of  milk  and  a 
little  salt;  beat  until  smooth.  Put  into  greased  hot  gem-pans  and 
bake  in  moderately  quick  oven  for  45  minutes.  If  properly  'baked 
they  will  'swell  6  times  their  original  bulk. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

PUFFS 

BREAKFAST  PUFFS.— Mix  H  cup  water,  J^  cup  milk;  add 
the  1  cup  flour  gradually,  beat  until  light,  pour  into  hot  buttered 
gems.  Bake  30  to  35  minutes  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Ernest  D.  Dean, 
Glen  View,  111. 

GRAHAM  PUFFS.— To  1  qt.  graham  flour  add  Yi  pt.  fine 
white  flour,  and  enough  warm  milk  or  water  to  make  a  thick  bat- 
ter, no  salt  or  baking  powder  required;  have  your  oven  hotter  than 
for  biscuit  and  your  gem  pans  standing  in  the  oven  until  you  get 
ready;  beat  batter  thoroughly,  grease  your  pans  and  drop  in  while 
the  irons  are  smoking  hot.  Bake  quickly  a  nice  brown. — Mrs. 
Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  111. 

STEAM  PUFFS.— Cream  together  2  t%^s>,  4  tablespoons  su- 
gar, 4  tablespoons  melted  butter;  add  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup 
chopped  raisins,  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  3  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der. Steam  >2  hr.  in  cups;  to  be  eaten  with  niaple  SATup. — Mrs. 
C.  Buttercup,  Bensen,  111. 

"BELVIDERE     PLANTATION"     BRANDON     PUFFS.— 1 

yeast  cake.     Make  into  a  stiff  batter  over  night  with  sweet  milk, 

1  qt.  of  flour,  1  teacup  butter,  4  eggs.  Next  morning  add  a  teacup  of 
cornmeal,  sifted  finely,  beait  well  and  put  to  rise  in  cups  or  mufiin 
pans,  and  bake  when  light. — Mrs.  Joseph  Dunlop,  Bartlett,  111. 

ROLLS 

ROLLS. — Bring  to  a  boil  1  qt.  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  sugar, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  salt  as  for  bread.  Allow  the  mixture  to  cool 
to  lukewarm,  add  1  yeast  cake;  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin 
batter,  then  cover  warm  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
mix  same  as  bread  (not  very  stiff)  and  let  rise,  then  roll  out  like 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         101 

biscuits  and  fold  one  side  over  on  other  and  press  down  once. 
Put  in  tin,  let  rise  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. — ^Mrs.  Alex.  Drexel, 
Park  Ridge,  111. 

BAKERS*  ROLLS.— Scald  1  pt.  sweet  milk,  while  hot  add 
tablespoon  butter;  when  milk  is  lukewarm  add  the  well  beaten 
white  of  1  egg,  Yt.  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  yeast  cake;  stir  in  flour 
and  mould  into  a  loaf.  Let  rise  over  night  and  mould  3  times, 
then  roll  out  to  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  into  biscuits,  butter  on  Yz 
and  fold  over,  let  rise  and  bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  H.  B.  San- 
born, Bartlett,  Jll. 

VARIATION  I. — Take  1  pt.  bread  sponge,  add  beaten  whites 
of  2  eggs,  Ya  cup  sugar,  Y^  cup  butter,  mix  well  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise,  then  roll  out  to  a  thickness  of  J^  inch,  cut  out  with 
cake  cutter;  butter  top  of  one  and  place  another  one  over,  set  aside 
to  rise  and  bake  for  J/^  hr.  Currants  may  be  added  if  desired. — 
Mrs.  C.  C.  Clancy,  Kenilworth,  111. 

BOSTON  ROLLS.— Mix  together  1  pt.  new  milk  (warm),  ^ 
cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  o.^^,  1  cup  yeast,  and  flour  enotfgh  to 
make  a  thick  paste,  Y2  teaspoon  salt,  let  rise  over  night,  knead  in 
the  morning  the  same  as  bread,  the  more  times  it  rises  the  better; 
keep  in  a  warm  place;  when  ready  to  rise  the  last  time,  roll  out 
lightly  on  the  bread'board  quite  thick,  dip  in  melted  butter  and 
lard,  let  rise  till  very  light.  Bake  %  of  an  hr. — Mrs.  Ethan  Earie, 
Mayfair,  111. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD  ROLLS.— Beat  together  Y\ 
cup  sugar,  1  t^g,  then  add  lYz  cups  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1 
teaspoon  soda,  3  cups  grahaim  flour  and  enough  white  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Have  ready  4  l-lb.  baking  powder  cans,  Y^ 
full  of  grahaim  batter,  put  on  lids  and  steam  2j4  hrs.;  remove  from 
steamer  and  set  in  oven  for  15  minutes  with  lids  off;  by  that  time 
they  may  be  turned  upside  down  and  with  a  little  shaking  will 
turn  out  on  a  board. — Mrs.  Jane  Evers,  Winnetka,  111. 

HOT  CEREAL  ROLLS.— Mush,  or  any  cereal  that  can  be 
warmed  over,  will  make  nice  rolls.  Add  graham  flour  to  form  a 
stiff  dough.  Knead  it  very  little,  cut  into  shape  of  rolls  and  bake 
quickly.  If  the  mush  is  of  cornmeal,  fine  white  flour  may  be  added. 
— Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 


102  BREAD 

CHELSEA  ROLLS.— Make  a  biscuit  dough  with  1  qt.  flour,  2 
large  teaspoons  baking  powder,  Yz  teaspoon  salt,  4  tablespoons 
lard,  and  1  cup  sweet  milk;  roll  out  to  about  ^  inch  thick,  spread 
with  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  mixed  with  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  1  cup  currants.  When  all  spread,  give  a  light  roll  with 
rolling-pin  to  keep  the  currants  from  dropping  out.  Roll  as  you 
would  a  jelly  roll,  cut  in  slices  about  1  inch  thick,  place  in  pan 
and  bake  a  light  brown;  glaze  with  a  spoon  of  milk  and  sugar. — 
Mrs.  Chas.  Eggleston,  Wheeling,  111. 

CINNAMON  ROLLS.— Take  1  lb.  bread  dough,  roll  out 
to  1  inch  thick,  butter  very  lightly  all  over  it  and  sprinkle  with  1 
tablespoon  of  cinnamon  and  Yz  cup  sugar.  Have  your  dough 
rolled  out  twice  as  long  as  wide.  Roll  up  the  long  side  over  and 
over  and  put  eggs  with  water  to  stick  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut 
in  2-inoh  rounds  and  lay  in  a  baking  tin  close  together  and  let 
rise  and  bake  in  a  rich  brown. — 'Mrs.  Chas.  Ellis,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 3  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
buttei:  size  of  an  Q.gg;  mix  as  little  as  possible,  roll  thin,  spread 
with  'brown  sugar,  cinnamon  and  a  little  butter;  roll  up  and  slice 
into  H  iiich  slices,  and  Ibake  in  medium  oven. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Rawlins, 
Glen  View,  111. 

DELICIOUS  ROLLS.— Set  a  sponge  at  9  o'clock  in  the  even- 
ing with  a  pt.  of  new  wilk,  warmed,  and  ^  cup  yeast  with  flour 
enough  to  stir  with  a  spoon.  Beat  until  it  is  perfectly  smooth. 
When  the  sponge  is  very  light  next  morning,  add  1  cup  each  of 
sugar  and  butter  and  4  eggs,  cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together. 
Add  Yz  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  the  eggs, 
I  at  an  time,  well  beaten,  or  the  yolks  well  beaten,  then  the  whites 
well  beaten.  Mix  this  into  the  sponge  and  beat  it  thoroughly. 
Sift  in  enough  flour  by  degrees  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred 
with  a  wooden  spoon.  Let  it  rise  again  until  very  light  and 
spongy.  Flour  your  hands  and  pinch  off  enough  to  make  a  cake, 
a  little  larger  than  an  egg.  Mould  it  with  as  little  handling  as 
possible.  Bake  in  pans  on  buttered  paper,  but  do  not  let  them 
touch  each  other.  Let  them  rise  again  very  light,  bjpfore  baking. 
When  baked  mix  up  the  yolk  of  an  tgg  with  a  little  milk  and 
spread  over  the  top  of  the  rolls  with  a  cloth  and  sift  flour  over 
that. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Westinghous,  Mayfair,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  103 

FRENCH  ROLLS.— Add  to  1  pt.  scalded  milk  1  teaspoon  salt, 
J4  cake  yeast,  Yz  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter;  stir  in  flour  to 
make  a  sponge,  let  rise  over  night.  Next  morning  mix  stiff  and 
«et  to  rise  again;  mix  down  twice,  cut  with  cake  cutter  and  double 
over;  cook  in  moderately  hot  oven. — ^^Mrs.  Ella  Fairchild,  Palatine, 
111. 

FRUIT  ROLLS. — Y^  cup  shortening,  and  sufficient  sweet  milk 
to  make  a  dough.  Mix  3  cups  flour  and  6  very  scant  teaspoons 
baking  powder  thoroughly;  add  2  heaping  tablespoons  sugar  and 
salt  and  rub  in  s<hortening,  then  add  milk,  stirred  in  gradually. 
Turn  dough  on  board  and  knead  a  little,  then  l-oll  out  and  brush 
with  melted  butter;  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  and  on  half  sprinkle 
raisins,  turn  other  half  over  it  and  bake, — Mts.  C.  C.  Cleveland, 
Bartlett,  111. 

FRUIT  AND  NUT  ROLLS.— Sift  together  3  times  3  cups 
flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  J^  cup  wbite  sugar  and  Y2 
teaspoon  salt.  Work  in  from  Yi  ^^  Y^  cup  of  shortening,  then  mix 
to  a  dough  with  milk.  Turn  the  dough  on  to  a  floured  board, 
knead  slightly;  then  roll  out  into  a  rectangular  sheet  about  Y2  of 
an  inch  thick.  Brush  over  the  sheet  of  dough  with  softened  but- 
ter, sprinkle  with  sultana  raisins  or  currants  and  hazel  nuts  cut 
into  several  pieces.  Roll  up  the  dough  compactly,  then  cut  the 
roll  in  pieces  1  inch  long.  Set  these  on  end  close  together  in  a 
buttered  pan.  Bake  about  20  iminutes. — Mrs.  William  Myers, 
Franklin,  111. 

GRAHAM  ROLLS.— Stir  a  pinch  of  salt  and  Y2.  teaspoon  of 
soda  into  1  cup  of  sour  milk.  Add  a  little  graham  flour,  then  1 
beaten  t%z  and  enough  more  graham  flour  to  make  a  stifif  batter, 
lastly  add  1  teaspoon  melted  shortening,  put  in  hot  pans  in  hot 
oven. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Westinghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS.— Scald  2  cups  milk,  add  3  table- 
spoons butter,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt.  When  warm 
add  1  yeast  cake  disolved  in  Y\  cup  lukewarm  water  and  3  cups 
flour;  beat  well,  cover  and  let  rise  until  light,  cut  down  and  add 
enough  flour  to  knead  and  roll  out  to  Yz  inch  thickness,  shape  with 
biscuit  cutter  first  dipped  in  flour;  dip  the  handle  of  a  silver  knife 
in  flour  and  with  it  make  a  crease  through  the  middle  of  each  roll, 


104  BREAD 

brush  over  half  of  each  piece  with  melted  butter,  fold  and  press 
edges  together,  place  in  a  greased  pan,  let  rise  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  15  minutes. — Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 3  tablespoons  butter,  1  tablespoon  salt. 
Scald  1  pt.  sweet  milk  and  pour  it  over  1  tablespoon  sugar,  ^vthen 
lukewarm,  add  2  cakes  compressed  yeast,  dissolved  in  4  cups  luke- 
warm water,  then  add  3  cups  sifted  flour.  Beat  hard,  cover  and  let 
rise  until  it  is  a  frothy  mass,  then  add  3  cups  more  flour.  Let  rise 
again  until  twice  its  original  bulk,  place  it  on  j-our  kneading 
toard.  Knead  lightly.  Then  roll  out  ^  inch  thick.  With  a  bis- 
cuit cutter  cut  out  the  rolls;  brush  each  piece  with  butter,  fold  and 
press  the  edges  together,  and  place  them  in  a  greased  pan  1  Inch 
apart.  Let  rise  until  very  light  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  min- 
utes.— ^^Mrs.  Ohas.  C.  Evans,  Winnetka,  111. 

POTATO  ROLLS.— Pare  and  boil  until  soft  4  good  sized  po- 
tatoes; then  mash  them  smooth  and  add  1  heaping  tablespoon 
butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  or  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  pt.  sweet  milk, 
lukewarm,  and  1  scant  pt.  light  bread  sponge,  with  enough  flour  to 
make  a  dough  that  can  be  kneaded.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise, 
and  when  light  shape  into  balls  the  size  of  an  egg.  Let  rise  again 
and  when  very  light  bake  15  or  20  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven. — Mrs.  C.  Buttercup,  Bensen,  III. 

VARIATION  I. — Stir  all  together  1  cup  mashed  potatoes,  l4 
cup  melted  lard,  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  1  compressed  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  cup  of  warm  water. 
Let  rise  }4  'hr.;  then  knead  15  minutes;  let  rise  again;  roll  and  cut 
and  butter;  let  rise  and  bake.  This  will  make  40. — Mrs.  Joseph 
Dunlop,  Bartlett,  111. 

SQUASH  ROLLS.— To  1  cup  boiled  and  sifted  squash  add  1 
beaten  egg,  2  tablespoons  sugar.  2  cups  sour  milk,  in  which  dis- 
solve 1  teaspoon  soda.  ^/^  teaspoon  salt  and  sifted  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  batter.  Bake  in  well-greased  roll-pans  in  quick  oven. — Mrs. 
Alex.  Drexel,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

STUFFED  ROLLS.— Cut  fresh  rolls  in  two  lengthwise,  scoop 
out  most  of  the  soft  part.  Mix  well  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  1  dessert- 
spoon potted  ha'm>  I/2  hard-boiled  egg,  chopped  fine,  1  radish,  sliced 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  105 

thin,  2  leaves  of  lettuce  cut  up  small.  Spread  this  on  both  sides 
of  the  rolls  and  close.  Serve  on  a  napkin. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

TEA  ROLLS. — 2  qts.  flour,  into  which  rub  1  large  tablespoon 
lard,  1  pt.  cold  boiled  milk,  %  cup  sugar,  J^  yeast  cake;  make  a 
hole  in  flour,  pour  in  the  liquid  and  let  rise  over  night;  knead  in 
morning  and  let  rise  until  noon,  then  knead  and  roll  out,  cut  with 
round  cake  cutter,  butter  half,  turn  other  half  over  on  to  it,  and  let 
rise  until  tea  time.  Bake  25  minutes  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Jennie 
Case,  Franklin,  111, 

RUSKS 

RUSKS. — Take  1  qt.  bread  dough;  when  ready  to  mould  into 
loaves  add  ^  of  an  egg,  beaten  thoroughly,  butter  or  lard  size  of 
an  egg,  yi  cup  of  sugar,  mixed  well;  add  flour  to  mould  until  stiff 
and  smooth;  roll  to  J^  inch  thickness;  cut  out  with  fciscuit  cutter, 
butter,  and  fold  over  J^,  let  them  rise  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — 
Airs.  Conklin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SALLY  LUNN.— Scald  1  pt.  of  milk,  when  cool  add  Yz  cup  of 
cottolene,  1  tablesp6on  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  J4  cup  of 
yeast  or  ^  cake  of  comnpressed  yeast.  Beat  thoroughly  and  set  to 
rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  dissolve  2  teaspoons  of  soda  in  a 
spoon  of  water,  stir  it  in  the  batter  with  4  welf-beaten  eggs.  Turn 
all  into  a  well-greased  cake  dish  to  rise  again.  Bake  about  45 
minutes,  and  serve  warm  from  the  oven. — ^Mrs.  T.  L.  Gillette,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

SCOTCH  BANNOCK— Mix  dry  2  heaping  cups  oatmeal,  1 
cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  small  J^  cup  sugar;  mix  with  1  cup 
sour  cream. — Mrs.  William  Westlake,  Wheeling,  111. 

SCOTCH  SCONES.— 4  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, or  ^^  teaspoon  soda  and  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  J/2  tea- 
spoon salt,  mix  in  flour  and  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Make  a  hole  in 
flour  and  put  in  1  cup  sugar  and  2  eggs,  barely  breaking  eggs 
with  knife,  pour  enough  sweet  milk  to  mix  soft,  rub  egg  over  top 
of  scones  before  putting  in  oven.  Bake  very  quick. — Mrs.  Andrew 
Anderson,  Kenilworth,  111. 


106  BREAD 

VARIATION  I. — Mix  and"  sift  together  2  cups  flour,  4  level 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  sugar,  and 
J/^  cup  sweet  cream;  rub  1  tablespoon  of  butter  with  the  tips  of 
the  fingers,  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  the  cream.  Toss  on 
a  floured  board,  pat  with  the  rolling-pin  and  lightly  roll  it.  Bake 
to  a  delicate  brown. — ^Mrs.  Joseph  Wylegalla,  1415  S.  2nd  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Sift  2  cups  flour,  2  heaping  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  1  level  teaspoon  salt,  into  a  mixing  bowl,  rub  in  thor- 
oughly 2  tablespoons  butter  or  lard,  wet  with  sweet  milk  to  make 
a  soft  dough,  divide  into  4  pieces  and  roll  each  piece  out  until 
about  %  inch  thick,  bake  in  griddle  on  top  of  stove  to  a  delicate 
brown  on  either  side. — ^Mrs.  John  Barber,  Mayfair,  111. 

GRAHAM  SCONES.— 1  cup  white  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  a  little  salt,  sift  altogether;  add  1  cup  graham  flour,  ]^ 
cup  sugar,  ^  cup  shortening.  Beat  up  1  tgg  in  a  saucer  and  leave 
a  while.  Pour  out  H  ^SS  in  a  cup  and  fill  with  cold  water  and 
mix  to  a  soft  dough,  roll  out  in  squares  and  brush  with  tgg  left 
in  saucer. — Mrs.  J.  Donohoe,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRITTERS 

FRITTERS.— 2  tggs,  1  pt.  sweet  milk,  flour  enough  to  make 
a  thin  batter.  Dip  the  tablespoon  in  flour  and  then  into  the  batter 
and  drop  into  the  sizzling  fat.  These  fritters  can  be  made  very 
pretty  by  practice;  eat  hot  with  maple  or  any  good  syrup,  sugar 
or  cream. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Sanborne,  Bartlett,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  tgg,  1  qt.  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  dip  out  by  tablespoons  and  fry  in  hot 
dripping,  lard,  butter  or  oil. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Make  a  stiff  batter  with  1  tgg,  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  pinch  of  salt,  scant  teaspoon  baking  powder,  ]^  teaspoon 
soda  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve  with  warm  maple  "syrup. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

APPLE  FRITTERS.— Peel,  core,  slice  round  in  four  slices  4 
medium  sized  apples.    Make  a  batter  of  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  pt. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  107 

of  milk,  54  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder  and  flour  enough  to  make  about  like  cak^  mixture. 
Dip  apples  in  batter  and  turn  and  fry  in  deep  lard.  Nice  for 
breakfast.  Will  serve  6.— Mrs.  E.  McGrath,  315  S.  5th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Pare  and  core  6  large  apples,  cut  them 
into  slices  about  a  %  inch  thick,  sprinkle  pounded  sugar  over 
them,  and  set  them  by  for  an  hr.  or  more;  dip  each  piece  of  apple 
in  the  batter  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard  about  6  minutes;  the  lard 
should  not  be  too  hot  at  first,  but  must  become  hotter  as  they 
are  frying.  Serve  on  a  napkin  with  sifted  sugar  over  them.  The 
batter  is  made  by  beating  and  straining  the  yolks  of  7  eggs  and 
the  whites  of  3;  mix  into  them  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  a  pt.  of 
sweet  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  glass  of  brandy,  beating  the 
mixture  well,  and  then  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter. 
This  is  an  old  southern  recipe. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Cleveland,  Bartlett,  111. 

BANANA  FRITTERS.— 1  cup  of  flour,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  beaten 
well,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk  or  water;  add  the  whites 
last  of  all,  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Slice  3  bananas  around 
(sprinkling  with  a  little  lemon  will  improve  the  flavor).  Stir  into 
the  batter  and  fry  by  spoonfuls  in  hot  lard,  having  a  slice  of  banana 
in  each  fritter.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  them.  A  simpler  way 
is  to  cut  the  bananas  in  two  across,  and  steep  them  in  a  syrup  of 
sugar  and  water.  After  an  hr.  drain,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot 
lard.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  into  a  syrup  and  serve  with  them 
as  a  sauce. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PINEAPPLE  FRITTERS.— May  be  made  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  Banana  Fritters.  Omit  the  lemon.  The  pineapple  will  be 
improved  by  sprinkling  the  slices  with  sugar  over  night. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BLACKBERRY  FRITTERS.— Mix  1  cup  of  blackberries  with 
IH  cups  of  common  batter,  and  drop  by  tablespoons  into  hot  lard. 
Any  kind  of  'berries  or  other  fruit,  fresh  or  canned,  may  be  used 
instead  of  blackberries.  Put  in  a  pan  over  the  fire  ^  pt.  of  water, 
1  cup  of  sugar;  boil  20  minutes;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  add  1 
teaspoon  each  of  extract  of  cloves,  mace  and  ginger. — Mrs.  Conk- 
lin, 914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


108  BREAD 

CELERY  FRITTERS — Parboil  celery  which  has  been  cut 
into  3-ineh  pieces  until  soft;  drain,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper; 
dip  in  batter,  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  and  season  with  tomato  sauce. 
— Mrs.  C.  E.  Westinghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

CEREAL  FRITTERS.— Take  any  left-over  cereal,  as  hominy, 
oatmeal,  farina,  shredded  wheat,  cream  of  wheat,  etc.;  mix  with  1 
cup  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  Yt,  teaspoon  salt;  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  by  spoon  into  hot  fat  and 
fry.  Serve  hot  with  syrup. — ^Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHICKEN  FRITTERS.— Chop  cold  left-over  chicken  coarse- 
ly, season  ,with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  lemon  juice;  mix  all  to- 
gether well  and  let  it  stand  about  1  hr.;  make  a  batter  of  2  eggs, 
1  pt.  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  good  batter; 
stir  the  chicken  into  this  and  drop  it  by  spoonfuls  into  boiling  fat; 
fry  brown,  drain  well  and  serve  hot.  Cold  veal  can  be  utilized  in 
this  way  and  will  be  found  nearly  as  nice  as  the  chicken. — Gladys 
Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

CLAM  FRITTERS.— 25  clams  cut  in  two,  2  eggs,  ^  cup 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  season  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — 
Mrs.  M.  Anthony,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

CORN  FRITTERS.— To  2  cups  of  corn  add  2  or  3  well-beaten 
eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  cream  or  new  milk  and  a  small  cup  of  flour, 
with  a  little  salt.  Drop  in  spoonful  into  hot  fat  and  fry  a  light 
brown.  Or  else  cook  them  on  the  griddle-iron  like  any  other 
cakes. — ^Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CORNMEAL  FRITTERS.— 1  cup  cornmeal,  1  level  teaspoon 
salt,  1  tablespoon  shortening,  1  tablespoon  sugar.  Stir  boiling 
water  over  these  ingredients  mixed  till  it  reaches  the  consistency 
of  hasty  pudding;  when  cool  stir  in  2  eggs  (1  egg  will  do),  add  1 
cup  sour  milk,  sweetened  by  a  tablespoon  of  soda.  Fry  in  hissing 
fat.     Dip  from  bottom  of  batter. — Mrs.  Almond  Case,  Palatine,  III. 

CUCUMBER  FRITTERS.— Slice  thin  an  old  cucumber,  and 
leave  in  salted  water  for  1-  hr.,  drain;  for  the  batter  use  3  eggs,  1  pt. 
of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  sifted  with  flour  sufficient  to 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         109 

make  it  the  consistency  of  pancakes;  add  the  cucumbers,  and  drop 
a  spoonful  in  a  hot  spider,  well  'buttered;  turn  as  soon  as  brown, 
or  add  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

ECONOMICAL  FRITTERS.— Take  any  small  bits  of  left- 
over meat,  fish,  fowl,  vegetable,  rice,  macaroni,  fresh  or  cooked 
fruit;  stale  bread,  cracker,  cake  or  cooky  crumbs;  add  to  1  egg, 
well  beaten;  mix  thoroughly;  add  1  cup  milk,  enough  of  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter  and  season  according  as  ingredients  demand. 
Fry  in  bubbling  fat. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Deariborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

FRENCH  FRITTERS.— Put  1  cup  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  beat 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs;  add  1  cup  of  cold  water  and  stir  this  gradu- 
ally into  the  flour  and  beat  vigorously;  add  ]/2  teaspoon  salt  and  1 
teaspoon  of  melted  butter  and  stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stand  away  for  at  least  2  hrs.,  but  not  longer 
than  12  hrs.  Fruit  fritters,  as  apple,  orange,  pineapple,  peach, 
pear,  banana,  etc.,  may  be  made  by  dipping  slices  into  this  batter 
and  frying. — ^Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

ORANGE  FRITTERS.— Make  a  batter  of  3  eggs,  2  cups  of 
milk,  Ij^  cups  of  prepared  flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Dip  into 
this  the  slices  of  6  sweet  oranges,  and  fry  them  in  boiling  lard. 
Drain  in  a  colander  on  white  paper,  and  eat  hot  with  a  sauce  made 
by  creaming  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  1  cup  of  sugar,  flavoring 
with  lemon  juice  and  cooking  with  1  cup  water. — Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PEACH  FRITTERS.— Peel  the  peaches,  split  each  in  two,  and 
take  out  the  stones;  dust  a  little  powdered  sugar  over  them;  dip 
each  piece  in  the  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  A  sauce  to  be  served 
with  them  may  be  made  as  follows:  Put  1  oz.  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  and  whisk  it  to  a  cream;  add  4  oz.  of  sugar  gradually. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs;  add  to  them  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  and  a 
gill  each  of  cold  water  and  rum;  stir  this  into  the  lukewarm  bat- 
ter, and  allow  it  to  heat  gradually.  Stir  constantly  until  of  a 
smooth,  creamy  consistency,  and  serve.  This  batter  is  made  as 
follows:  Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs;  add  to  them  1  cup  of  milk,  or 
5^  cup,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  4  oz.  of  flour;  mix.  Use  more  milk  if 
flour  is  old.^Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


110  BREAD 

QUEEN  FRITTERS.—^  cup  butter  (scant),  J^  cup  boiling 
water,  J^  cup  flour,  2  eggs;  mix  as  cream  puffs,  drop  by  spoonfuls 
and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain,  fill  with  preserves  or  cream  filling 
and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Adams,  Franklin, 
111. 

FLAKED  RICE  FRITTERS.— Mix  4  cups  of  flaked  rice,  1 
cup  of  flour,  2  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  J^  teaspoon  of 
salt,  J4  teaspoon  of  paprika,  1  egg,  1  cup  of  milk.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  into  hot  fat,  vegtable  oil  or  ko-nut,  and  fry  S  minutes. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

RICE  FLOUR  FRITTERS.— Mix  together  2  cups  rice,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  2  eggs,  a  little  salt  and  imilk  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  into  boiling  fat  of  any  kind  desired  and 
fry  a  light  brown,  and  serve  with  any  kind  of  syrup,  sugar  or 
cream. — ^Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SNOW  FRITTERS.— Beat  1  egg  until  light,  add  to  it  ^  pt.  of 
milk,  then  ^4  teaspoon  of  salt  and  %  cup  of  flour;  give  a  thor- 
ough and  continuous  beating  for  5  minutes.  Have  ready  a  pan  of 
boiling  fat;  stir  the  snow  lightly  into  the  batter;  drop  by  spoon- 
fuls into  the  boiling  fat,  and  fry  until  a  nice  brown. — Mrs.  Conk- 
lin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Ma3rwood,  111. 

SPANISH  FRITTERS.— Pare  the  crust  from  a  stale  loaf,  cut 
in  slices  an  inch  thick.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  a  pt.  of 
sweet  milk,  in  which  put  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Have  your  skillet  hot 
and  put  in  a  54  tablespoon  of  lard.  Dip  slices  in  milk  and  fry  a 
nice  brown. — Mrs.  Mary  Carpenter,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

SWEET  FRITTERS.— These  fritters  are  of  two  classes:  (1) 
A  thick  batter  in  which  baking  powder  is  used  and  the  fruit  is 
added  in  small  pieces  or  the  crushed  pulp  only.  (2)  Thin  batter 
made  without  baking  powder  and  the  fruit  put  in  in  large  pieces. 
To  make  the  batter. — 1  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  % 
teaspoon  salt,  J^  tablespoon  powdered  sugar,  according  to  the 
acidity  of  the  fruit  used,  %  cup  milk  or  water,  1  egg,  beaten,  1 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  lemon  juice  if  bananas  are  used.  Mix 
and  sift  dry  material,  add  liquid,  add  the  fruit,  if  bananas,  force 
through  a  sieve.  Fold  in  the  whites  of  egg  last.  Drop  by  spoon- 
fuls in  hot  fat  and  cook  until  browned. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  IDS  S. 
Deariborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         111 

VANILLA  FRITTERS.— Place  3  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour 
in  a  bowl;  add  K  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  of 
stale  macaroon  crumbs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  a 
dessertspoon  of  melted  butter.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add  gradually 
^  cup  of  lukewarm  water;  beat  to  a  smooth  creaoi^  add  the 
whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Drop  a 
spoonful  of  the  batter  in  a  saucepan  half  full  of  boiling  fat.  Take 
out  quickly.  Drain  carefully  on  clean,  greased  paper  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

PANCAKES 

GRIDDLE  OR  PANCAKES.— 1  cup  flour,  ^  teaspoon  salt, 
1%  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  egg,  ^  cup  milk,  ^4  teaspoon  melt- 
ed butter;  mix  dry  ingredients;  add  liquid  gradually;  add  butter. 
Do  not  beat  too  much.  Have  pan  hot,  rubbed  with  fat  pork,  as 
butter  burns  very  easily.  Drop  by  spoonfuls.  Batter  should  be 
thin  enough  to  allow  to  spread  out  over  pan.  When  puffed  and 
full  of  bubbles,  cooked  on  edge,  turn  and  cook  other  side. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S^  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  qt.  sour  milk,  1  large  teaspoon  salt,  1  tgg, 
well  beaten,  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter,  just  before  ready 
to  bake,  beat  in  2  teaspoons  of  soda,  dissolved  in  warm  water. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ADAMS'  ALE  (WATER)  PANCAKES.— Sift  together  2  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder  and  2^4  cups  flour,  add  1  heaping  table- 
spoon each  of  cornmeal  and  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  beat  in 
enough  cold  water  to  make  a  thin,  smooth  batter;  add  2  well- 
beaten  eggs.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

BATTER  CAKES.— 2  eggs,  1  cup  of  meal,  1  saltspoon  of 
salt,  1  cup  of  milk.  Make  a  thin  batter,  adding  more  milk  if 
necessary,  and  bake  on  hot  griddle.  A  tablespoon  of  melted  but- 
ter is  an  improveiment. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

VIRGINIA  BATTY  CAKES.— 2  cups  of  sifted  flour,  1  of 
cornmeal,  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  made  into  a  batter  with  but- 
termilk, or  some  milk  in  which  a  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  thor- 


112  BREAD 

oughly  dissolved.  Pour  upon  greased  griddle  from  a  spoon,  and 
allow  the  cakes  to  have  the  thickness  of  good  buckw^heat  cakes. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BREAD  GRIDDLE  CAKES.— 1^^  cups  fine  bread  crumbs,  Ij^ 
cups  hot  milk,  2  ta'blespoons  butter,  2  eggs,  ^  cup  flour,  Yz  tea- 
spoon salt,  3^  teaspoons  'baking  powder.-  Mix  in  the  order  given. 
1  cup  any  cooked  cereal  may  be  used  instead  of  bread  crumbs. 
Cook  as  other  Griddle  Cakes. — ^^Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BREAD  PANCAKES.— Soak  3  cups  of  (bread  1  hr.  in  sweet, 
sour,  buttermilk  or  water;  add  1  or  2  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1 
teaspoon  soda  or  baking  powder  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin 
batter.— Mrs.  Leslie  V.  Warren,  211  S.  8th  Ave.,  May  wood,  111. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES.— 1^^  pts,  of  sifted  buckwheat  flour, 
1  cofl^ee  cup  of  cornmeal,  1  coflFee  cup  yeast,  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter and  lard,  mixed  and  melted,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  brown 
sugar.  Mix  the  buckwheat  with  the  yeast,  using  a  granite  spoon; 
add  meal,  salt  and  enough  lukewarm  water  to  make  a  stiflf  batter. 
In  the  morning  stir  it,  add  sugar,  lard  and  a  pinch  of  soda,  thin 
with  a  little  sweet  ^milk.  If  wanted  for  'breakfast  make  at  8  o'clock 
in  the  evening,  and  for  tea,  make  about  10  a.  m. — Mabel  Sturte- 
vant, 105  S.  Dear'born  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BUCKWHEAT  PANCAKES.— Mix  3  tablespoons  molasses 
with  a  qt.  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk  and  2  beaten  eggs,  then  add, 
stirring  slowly,  enough  buckwheat  flour  to  make  a  nice  batter,  and 
1  handful  of  cornmeal,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Salt  to  taste,  1  teaspoon 
of  haking  powder.  Bake  immediately  on  hot  griddle. — Mrs.  Ju- 
lius Casper,  Wheeling,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— 1  qt.  buckwheat  flour,  1  pt.  of  wheat  flour,  Yz 
teacup- of  yeast,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Make  into  a  batter  and  set  to 
rise.  Thin  with  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  add  a  small  pinch  of  soda. 
Bake  quickly  on  a  well-greased  griddle,  butter  while  hot  and  send 
to  the  taible. — Mrs,  I.  S.  Putnam,  Wheeling,  111. 

CORNMEAL  PANCAKES.— 1  cup  sour  milk,  Y2  teaspoon 
soda.  1  egg,  well  beaten,  equal  parts  of  flour  and  cornmeal  to  make 
a  soft  batter;  fry  on  a  hot  buttered  pan. — Mrs.  Frank  Cress,  Park 
Ridge,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  113 

DROP  CORN  CAKES — 1  pt.  cornmeal,  2  pts.  boiled  grits  c- 
small  hominy,  3  eggs,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  then  thin 
with  milk  until  you  can  drop  themi  with  a  spoon  on  a  pan,  and 
bake  brown. — ^Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CRACKER  PANCAKES.— 4  crackers,  2  cups  sour  milk  or  but- 
termilk,  1  or  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Roll  crackers, 
add  butter  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  add  other  ingredients,  and 
flour  to  make  a  batter. — Mrs.  Chas.  Johnston,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

CHESTNUT  GRIDDLE  BREAD.— Separate  2  eggs;  to  the 
yolks  add  14  cup  milk;  mix.  Stir  in  ^  cups  chestnut  meal.  Cov- 
er and  stand  in  a  cool  place  over  night.  Next  morning  add  the 
wihites  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  level  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 
and  l4  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Make  into  thin  cakes  and  bake  either  in 
a  hot  oven  or  on  a  hot  griddle. — Mrs.  Ralph  Charters,  Park  Ridge, 
111. 

FEATHERY  FLAPJACKS.— 1  qt.  of  yellow  cornmeal,  1 
handful  wheat  flour,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  Ij/^  teaspoons 
of  salt,  1  pt.  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  2  eggs,  enough  cold 
water  to  make  a  thin  batter  and  fry  on  very  hot  pancake  griddle. — 
Mrs.  J.  C.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

FLANNEL  CAKES.— 1  pt.  of  meal  and  1  pt.  of  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  yeast  enough  to  raise  it,  or  ^  of  an  yeast  cake.  Mix 
the  batter  with  tepid  water,  almost  as  thick  as  for  buckwheat  cakes. 
When  risen,  bake  in  a  griddle. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  L— Heat  J/^  pt.  of  new  milk,  add  to  it  1  beap- 
ing  tablespoon  butter,  let  it  melt,  then  add  }4  pt.  of  cold  milk,  2 
yolks  beaten  light,  2  tablespoons  of  yeast,  1  teaspoon  salt,  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter,  set  over  night,  or  allow  4  hrs.  to  rise.  When 
ready  to  bake,  add  the  frothed  whites.  Bake  on  a  hot  greased 
griddle.  To  vary  the  cakes,  use  half  of  flour  and  half  cornmeal  pre- 
pared in  the  same  way. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  XL— Sift  together  154  pts.  of  flour,  1  tablespoon 
of  brown  sugar,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  1  of  salt.  Add 
2  beaten  eggs  and  IH  Pts.  of  ^milk  and  beat  into  a  smooth,  thin 


114  BREAiD 

batter.     Bake  on  hot  griddle  to  a  rich  brown  and  serve  with  maple 
•yrup.-— Mrs.  €.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRENCH  PANCAKES.— Cover  several  slices  of  stale  bread 
with  thick  sour  milk  and  let  stand  over  night,  then  stir  well;  add 
Yi  teaspoon  soda,  scalded,  a  little  flour,  and,  if  needed,  a  little  sweet 
milk,  an  egg  or  two,  well  beaten,  a  tablespoon  butter;  bake  on  but- 
tered pans.— Mrs.  Edith  Fairchild,  Glen  View,  111. 

HOMINY  BATTER  CAKES.— 1  pt.  of  cold  cooked  hominy, 
scant  measure,  1  tablespoon  butter,  V/z  tablespoons  sifted  flour,  2 
eggs,  1  pt.  new  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Have  hominy  cooked  and 
cool,  stir  in  beaten  yolks,  add  rest  of  ingredients,  then  the  frothed 
whites.  Bake  on  a  hot  greased  griddle. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

GRAHAM  GRIDDLE  CAKES.— 1  cup  graham  flour,  1  cup 
wheat  flour,  1  pt.  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  XYz  tablespoons  brown  sugar, 
2  tablespoons  cold  water,  1  tablespoon  butter  (melted),  ^  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  a  heaping  teaspoon  soda.  Mix  the  brown  and 
white  flour  thoroughly  with  the  sugar  and  salt.  Dissolve  the  soda 
in  the  water  and  add  to  your  milk.  Mix  tihe  flour  with  this  latter 
and  finally  add  your  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  fry  on  a  hot  griddle. 
Serve  with  tmaple  syrup. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Sherman,  Palatine,  111. 

GRIT  CAKES.— Have  1  pt.  of  cold  grits,  add  to  it  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  Ij^  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour, 
1  pt.  of  sweet  milk,  salt  to  taste;  add  whites  last  and  bake  on  a  hot 
griddle. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

HOE  CAKE. — Make  a  hole  in  the  center  of  1  qt.  of  oatmeal, 
sprinkle  in  salt  and  5^  teaspoon  of  lard.  Sprinkle  a  little  dry  meal 
on  hot  griddle,  let  brown  to  give  the  fishy  taste,  use  lukewarm 
water  and  mix  stiff  enough  to  make  into  small  cakes  with  hands. 
The  cakes  should  be  shaped  with  a  smooth  edge,  then  rub  over  the 
top  with  hand  wet  in  cold  water  to  prevent  cracking.  When  ready 
to  turn,  turn  on  a  plate,  then  back  on  the  griddle. — ^Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

AUNT  SALLY'S  HOECAKE.— Scald  1  pt.  of  white  cornmeal 
with  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Have  the  water 
salted  and  1  tablespoon  of  lard  melted  in  it.     Knead  the  dough  a 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         US 

little  and  form  it  into  flat  cakes  atout  a  ^  of  an  inch  thick  and  6 
inches  across.  Cook  these  cakes  on  a  griddle  or  in  an  iron  fry- 
ing-pan without  any  grease,  turning  frequently  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. In  the  South  they  are  cooked  in  the  hot  ashes  in  the  open 
fireplace — hence  the  name. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

INDIAN  GRIDDLE-CAKES.— Sift  and  mix  together  ^  qt. 
of  cornmeal,  Ys  qt.  of  flour,  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  brown  sugar, 
2  of  baking  powder  and  H  of  salt.  Add  2  beaten  eggs  and  1  pt.  of 
milk,  beating  to  a  smooth  batter.  Brown  on  a  very  hot  griddle. 
Serve  with  syrup. — ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

MUSH  OR  CEREAL  CAKES.— Take  1  qt.  of  cold  mush  or 
any  kind,  54  pt.  of  wheat  flour,  a  little  butter  or  lard.  Make  into 
little  cakes  with  your  hand,  flour,  and  bake  them  on  a  griddle  as 
slab-cake,  or  in  the  oven. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

PANCAKES  AU  NATUREL.— Put  a  little  salt  into  %  pt.  of 
flour  in  a  basin,  (make  a  hole  in  the  center,  stir  in  a  little  milk  until 
the  flour  is  well  mixed;  break  in  1  egg  and  beat  for  5  minutes. 
Add  another  egg  and  beat  until  the  surface  is  covered  with  air 
bubibles  and  mix  in  more  milk,  using  J4  pt.  of  milk  in  all.  Melt 
butter  size  of  a  walnut  in  a  small  saute-pan  and  pour  in  sufficient 
batter  to  make  a  thin  pancake.  Shake  the  pan  gently  for  2  or  3 
minutes,  turn  or  toss  the  pancake;  when  done  serve  on  a  napkin 
on  a  plate,  to  absorb  the  grease,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  lemon 
juice  and  eat  immediately. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

OYSTER  PANCAKES.— Chop  1  pt.  of  oysters,  add  enough 
milk  to  make  1  pt.,  using  a  little  cream.  Make  a  batter  by  stirring 
in  a  scant  pt.  of  flour,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt  and  2  eggs,  well  beaten. 
When  the  batter  is  perfectly  smooth  beat  in  the  oysters  and  bake 
on  a  griddle  like  any  pancakes.  Serve  with  toasted  crackers. — 
Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

OATMEAL  PANCAKES.— 2J4  cups  sweet  milk,  2  cups  oat- 
meal, 2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
small  teaspoon  salt,  1  egg,  1  cup  flour;  fry  in  pork  drippings.  Soak 
oatmeal  over  night  in  the  milk.  These  are  delicious  with  maple 
•yrup  or  honey. — Mrs.  William  Myers,  Franklin,  111. 


116  BREAD 

PEA  PANCAKES  OR  FRITTERS.— Take  a  pt.  of  cold 
boiled  peas,  heat  and  mash  them  and  rulb  through  a  colander,  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter;  when  cold, 
add  to  the  pulp,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  cup  of  rich  milk,. 
IJ^  cups  flour,  and  Vi  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
sifted  3  times  with  the  flour,  stir  and  beat  well,  and  add  just  before 
baking  the  w!hites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  stifif.  Bake  the  same  as  pan- 
cakes and  serve  very  hot. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Westinghous,  Mayfair  111. 

POTATO  PANCAKES.— Grate  6  good  sized  potatoes,  2  eggs, 
2  taiblespoons  flour,  5  of  sweet  milk,  a  little  salt.  Bake  as  griddle 
cakes. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

POTATO  PANCAKES.— Let  2  qts.  of  raw  grated  potatoes 
stand  for  several  minutes,  dip  off  the  water,  which  set  aside  until 
the  starch  settles,  then  pour  off  the  water  and  add  the  starch  to 
the  potatoes,  beat  up  4  eggs  thoroughly,  mix  with  2  tablespoons 
of  thick,  sour  cream  and  potatoes,  add  salt  to  taste  and  fry  in 
plenty  of  ko-nut  or  lard  till  crisp  and  brown. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

PANCAKE  PYRAMID.— Trim  1  lb.  of  mushrooms  and  cut 
them  into  small  pieces.  Sprinkle  over  theim  ^  teaspoon  pepper 
and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Fry  in  Ij^  oz.  butter  for  5  minutes;  then 
put  on  the  lid  of  the  saucepan,  and  cook  gently  until  the  mush- 
rooms are  tender.  Mix  in  ]^  oz.  of  flour,  add  5^  pt.  milk,  and 
cook  for  45  minutes.  Leave  by  the  side  of  the  fire  to  keep  warm 
until  wanted.  Fry  J^  pt.  batter  as  for  pancakes,  but  do  not  roll 
up.  Put  a  pancake  on  a  hot  dish  and  spread  it  with  some  of  the 
mushroom  mixture.  Put  another  pancake  on  top,  then  more  of 
the  mushroom  mixture.  Continue  in  this  way  until  all  the  pan- 
cakes and  mushrooms  are  used,  .having  a  pancake  last;  serve  at 
once. — 'Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Bensen,  111. 

PANCAKE  PYRAMID  WITH  PEAS.— Put  H  Pt.  white  sauce 
into  a  saucepan  when  hot,  add  the  J^  lb.  carrots  and  J^  lb.  green 
peas,  and  more  seasoning  if  necessary.  Stir  over  the  fire  until 
thoroughly  hot.  Fry  J/^  pt.  batter  as  for  pancakes,  and  arrange 
first  a  pancake,  then  a  layer  of  peas  and  another  pancake,  and  so 
on  until  all  are  used,  having  a  pancake  on  top. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Can- 
thom,  Wilimette,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         117 

RAISED  PANCAKES.— 1  qt.  cold  water,  1  tablespoon  vine- 
gar, y^  teaspoon  salt,  enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  set  in  a 
warm  place  over  night;  in  the  morning  put  in  ^  teaspoon  of  soda 
and  thin  until  it  will  run;  bake  on  a  well-greased  griddle.  They  are 
better  in  2  or  3  days. — Mrs.  >Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  III. 

RICE  GRIDDLE-CAKES.— Boil  ^  cup  of  rice;  when  cold 
mix  with  1  qt.  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  2  cups  of  flouh* 
sifted  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  with  a  little  salt;  beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth  and  add  last.  Bake  on  a  grid- 
dle.—Mrs.  J.  C.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

SCOTCH  PANCAKES.— 1  pt.  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  butter, 
4  eggs;  Yz  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  sift  the 
flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together,  add  the  milk  and  beaten 
eggs,  then  the  melted  butter;  mix  well;  butter  a  small  frying-pan 
and  pour  in  Yz  cup  of  the  batter;  move  the  pan  round  so  that  the 
batter  shall  cover  it  and  place  over  the  fire  to  brown,  then  re- 
move from  the  heat  and  the  pancake  will  rise  up;  spread  each  over 
with  marmalade  or  jelly,  serve  with  sliced  lemon  and  sugar. — Ma- 
bel Sturtevant,  105  S.  Deaborn  St.,   Chicago,  III. 

SNOW  PANCAKES.— 2  tablespoons  of  freshly  fallen  snow 
can  be  used  instead  of  1  ^^z-  Make  a  batter  for  pancakes,  put  in 
a  hot  oven  and  bake  quickly. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  III. 

SOUR  MILK  PANCAKES.— Beat  1  tz%  and  V2  teaspoon 
salt  together.  Mix  5^  teaspoon  soda  with  1  cup  sour  milk.  When 
it  foams  add  the  t^^,  then  add  the  1  cup  flour,  sifted  once,  and 
beat  well.  Have  griddle  hot  and  well  greased  with  lard,  and  then 
fry  in  small  cakes  until  a  golden  brown.  When  holes  appear  on 
top  of  cake,  it  is  time  to  turn  on  the  other  side  to  -brown, 

NOTE. — As  a  substitute  for  sour  milk,  use  the  same  quantity 
of  sweet  milk  with  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Soda  is  to  be  used 
with  this  also. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Marelius,  2329  Cornelia  St.,  Chicago, 
111.      . 

VELVET  BREAFAST  CAKES.— Let  1  pt.  of  milk  simmer 
a  few  minutes,  stir  in  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Add  salt, 
3  spoonfuls  of  good  yeast,  with  3  well-beaten  eggs.  Mix  suffi- 
cient flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.    Knead  all  well  together  and  put 


118  BREAD 

the  mixture  in  a  warm  place  in  a  basin,  cover  with  a  cloth  for  2 
hrs.  Make  into  small  cakes,  lay  on  a  well-oiled  tin  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven.— Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

WHEATMEAL  PANCAKES.— 1  cup  sour  cream,  1  table- 
s-poon  melted  butter,  1  egg,  yolk  and  white  beaten  separately,  1 
cup  wheatmeal,  1^  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder.— Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SYRUP  FOR  PANCAKES.— 1^  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  water,  2 
tablespoons  lemon  juice.  Let  water  and  sugar  come  to  a  boil  and 
add  lemon.— Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

WAFFLES 

WAFFLES.—^  pt.  milk,  J^  pt.  flour,  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 
2  eggs,  %  tablespoon  salt.  Warm  the  milk  and  melt  the  butter 
in  it.  Let  mixture  cool  to  about  blood-heat.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  till  light  and  add  the  milk  and  butter  to  them.  Pour  this 
mixture  on  flour  and  beat  well.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
froth  and  stir  them  into  a  batter,  add  the  salt  and  pour  on  to  the 
waffle  irons. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Appleton,  Bartlett,  III. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  yeast  cake,  1  teaspoon  lard  or  butter  melt- 
ed, 2  cups  milk  scalded  and  cooled,  2  eggs,  2%  cups  sifted  flour,  1 
teaspoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in 
lukewarm  liquid;  add  lard  or  butter,  flour,  salt  and  eggs,  well 
beaten.  Beat  thoroughly  until  batter  is  smooth.  Cover  and  set 
aside  in  a  warm  place  free  from  draught  for  about  t  hr.  When 
light  stir  well;  have  waffle  irons  hot  and  well  greased;  fill  the  cool 
side;  brown  on  1  side,  turn  the  irons  and  brown  on  the  other.  If 
batter  is  too  thick  the  waffles  will  be  tough.  If  set  oyer  night  for 
breakfast,  use  l4  cake  yeast  and  an  extra  l4  teaspoon  salt.  Cover 
and  kefrp  in  a  cool  place. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Appleton,  Bartlett,  111. 

VARIATION  II  (Southern  Style).— Boil  very  soft  ^  'cup  of 
rice,  add  1  tgg,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  heaping  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  mix  with  aweet  milk  and  flour  to  make  a  thin  bat- 
ter. Pour  the  mixture  into  the  waffle  irons,  and  bake  till  crisr 
and  brown. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  119 

GERMAN  WAFFLES.— Beat  J^  lb.  butter  and  H  cup  of  su- 
gar to  a  stiff  cream;  add  alternately  1  egg,  and  some  flour  until 
4  eggs  are  used.  The  dough  must  be  like  that  of  pancakes.  Bake 
on  a  hot,  well-buttered  waffle  iron.  Sprinkle  sugar  and  cinnamon 
on  the  top  of  each  waffle. — Mrs.  Schmalzried,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Stir  J4  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  a  table- 
spoon sugar,  then  add  slowly  1  yolk  of  an  egg  and  a  little  flour, 
beating  well.  Continue  until  6  yolks  and  4  oz.  of  flour  have  been 
used.  Then  add  %  pt.  of  whipped  cream,  and  5  whites  beaten 
light.  Flavor  with  lemon,  or  nutmeg,  if  liked.  Heat  waffle  iron 
and  pour  a  tablespoon  in  each  compartment. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Schmidt, 
Glencoe,  111. 

HOMINY  WAFFLES.— Beat  an  egg  light,  add  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  ,a  little  salt  and  1  cup  of  hominy,  beat  in  1  pt.  of  milk 
and  sift  slowly  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  in  1  pt.  of  flour. 
Beat  all  together  and  bake  in  waffle  irons. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

NUT  WAFFLES.— 1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  %  cup  but- 
ter, 1  cup  nuts,  walnuts  preferred,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  melt 
the  butter  and  cream,  and  the  sugar  with  it,  add  the  beaten  egg; 
mix  with  baking  powder  and  flour  and  sift.  Lastly  mix  in  chopped 
nuts.  Drop  a  very  small  quantity  on  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. — Mrs.  James  Ellis,  Palatine,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  cup  boiled  rice,  1  pt.  milk,  2  eggs,  1  scant 
tablespoon  cottolene,  }4  teaspoon  of  soda  or  1  teaspoon  cream  tar- 
tar. Flour  for  a  thin  batter,  bake  in  waffle  irons. — Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SOFT  WAFFLES.— Sift  together  1  qt.  of  flour,  2  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  1  of  sugar  and  J^  of  salt;  rub  in  butter  and  add 
2  beaten  eggs  with  Ij/^  pts.  of  milk.  Mix  the  whole  into  a  smooth 
batter  and  pour  into  hot  and  well-greased  waffle  irons.  Sprinkle 
with  sifted  sugar  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

SWEET  POTATO  WAFFLES.— Mash  2  cups  of  boiled 
sweet  potatoes  through  a  sieve,  and  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  first 
the  yolks  and  then  the  whites;  add  ^2  a  cup  of  sugar  and  beat 
again,  1  cup  butter  melted,  and  1  pt.  of  milk.    Add  about  4  'table- 


120  BREAD 

spoons  of  flour,  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Pour  into  greased 
waffle  tins  and  cook  over  a  quick  fire. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

WILHELM  WAFFLES.— Mix  1  qt.  of  flour  with  3  table- 
sipoons  of  sugar,  2  large  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  J^  tea- 
spoon of  salt;  work  in  2  tablespoons  of  lard  or  butter  and  add  4 
beaten  eggs  with  1  pt.  of  milk  and  a  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Beat 
into  a  smooth, 'stiff  (batter  and  bake  in  hot,  well-greased  waffle- 
iron.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
ktnea.  111. 

CANAPES 

CHEESE  CANAPES.-^Cut  a  stale  loaf  of  bread  into  slices  ^ 
inch  thick.  Divide  these  into  pieces  2  inches  long,  and  1  inch 
wide,  and  fry  in  hot  butter  or  oil.  Spread  mustard  thinly  on  each 
piece,  lay  over  some  cheese  and  put  in  a  quick  oven  until  the 
cheese  is  dissolved.  Serve  hot  as  possible. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

CHEESE  CANAPES.— Cut  out  circles  of  bread  J4  inch  thick, 
cut  them  again  in  crescent  shaped  pieces,  fry  in  butter  to  a  light 
brown,  grate  some  cheese,  and  put  1  teaspoon  on  each  piece  of 
bread,  a  litle  salt  and  pepper,  and  'brown  quickly  in  a  hot  oven; 
serve  at  once. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

JEFFERSON  CANAPES.— Trim  3  slices  of  bread,  toast  and 
lay  them  on  a  platter.  Slice  lean  cooked  ham  thin  with  a  little 
mustard  on  it  and  place  on  each  slice  a  layer  of  cooked  mush- 
rooms and  tomatoes.  Dredge  grated  Parmesan  cheese  on  top, 
and  strew  fresh  hread  crumbs  over  the  whole.  Place  in  hot  oven 
for  10  minutes.  Lay  on  a  heated  dish,  cover  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve. — ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

OYSTER  CANAPES.— To  ^  doz.  chopped  oysters  add  1  tea- 
spoon of  fine  bread  crumbs,  butter  size  of  a  walnut  and  J4  cup  of 
very  thick  cream.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Let  it  simmer 
over  the  fire  a  few  minutes.  Butter  slices  of  bread  Y^  inch  in 
thickness  and  lay  them  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  the  mixture  over  the 
bread  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         121 

PLAIN  CANAPES.— Toast  thin  slices  of  bread,  cut  off  the 
crust,  and  butter  the  toast  lightly.  Spread  potted  meat  or  fish,  or 
grated  cheese  between  2  slices.  Cut  into  strips  and  serve. — Mrs. 
C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  III. 

SARDINE  CANAPES.— Cut  some  slices  off  a  roll  into  oval 
or  octagon  shapes.  Toast  slightly,  or  fry  in  oil,  or  butter.  Strip 
sardines  of  the  bones;  lay  Yz  of  them  aside,  and  pound  the  other  ^ 
to  a  smooth  paste  with  the  yolks  of  3  or  4  hard-boiled  eggs  and  a 
little  butter.  Add  a  little  mustard,  pepper  and  vinegar.  Spread 
the  mixture  over  the  slices  of  toast.  On  the  top  lay  the  other  half 
of  the  sardines  cut  into  s'mall  strips,  stand  them  in  the  oven  and 
serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

SAVORIES 

CREOLE  SAVOURY.— Toast  1  side  of  shaped  pieces  of. 
bread,  and  butter  the  other,  spreading  on  it  a  layer  of  chopped 
tomato  mixed  with  ^t.  as  much  chopped  green  peppers,  and  sprin- 
kle with  salt.  Put  in  oven  for  5  minutes,  or  under  the  roasting 
flame,  and  on  removing  arrange  a  cone  of  finely  chopped  onion 
in  center  of  each, — ^Mrs,  Chris.  Worthington,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

CUCUMBER  SAVOURY.— Drawing  a  silver  fork  along  the 
cucumber  lengthwise,  separate  and  cut  it  in  neat  slices  and  place 
on  round  cut  bread,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  paprika;  on  every  slice 
of  cucumber  put  a  ring  of  small  sliced  onion  or  arrange  the  tiny 
German  pearl  pickled  onion  between  the  slices  of  cucumber;  pour 
a  little  lemon  juice  over  when  serving. — ^Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

VARIATION  I. — Use  chopped  chives  or  fill  each  ring  of 
onion  with  them. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 

BEET  AND  EGG  SAVOURY.— Chop  together  equal  parts  of 
pickled  beets  and  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  arrange  on  toast  or 
bread,  with  the  riced  yolks,  mixed  with  a  bit  of  chopped  chives  or 
parsley,  in  a  cone  on  the  center.  Season. — ^^Mrs.  Clark  Mason, 
Bensen,  111. 

BROWN  BREAD  SAV'OURY.— Brown  bread  cut  into  shapes, 
spread  on  butter,  and  cream  cheese,  cross  2  evenly  cut  strips  of 


122  BREAD 

pimento  on  each  spread  piece;  wliere  strips  cross,  place  a  slice  of 
pimento  in  each  space  on  the  cheese.  Sprinkle  with  paprika  and 
put  a  few  capers  here  and  there. — Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S.  8th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

EGG  SAVOURY.— Fresh  slightly  toasted  bread  or  less  fresh 
untoasted  cut  in  squares,  diamonds  or  rounds,  sprinkling  with  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  or  any  good  sauce,  covering  neatly  with  the 
chopped  wliites  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  salted,  on  which  arrange  a 
center  of  the  riced  yolks;  put  a  round  slice  from  a  black  pickled 
walnut  on  each  corner,  dot  with  capers  and  sprinkle  with  paprika. 
— Mrs%  Frank  Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

HORSE  RADISH  SAVOURY.— Spread  o-blong  pieces  of 
(bread  thinly  with  mustard,  cover  with  a  layer  of  chopped  whites  of 
hard-boiled  eggs,  mixed  with  a  little  grated  horse-radish,  arrange 
capers  in  strips  crosswise  of  the  bread,  and  between  these  sprinkle 
the  hard-fboiled  yolks  of  the  eggs  w!hich  have  been  riced  or  pressed 
through  a  sieve.  At  the  corners  and  in  the  center  place  thin  slices 
of  gherkins. — Mrs.  Allan  George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

ONION  SAVOURY. — Use  shaped  pieces  of  bread  and  spread 
thinly  with  butter,  arrange  %.  inch  layer  of  finely  minced  Spanish 
onion,  mixed  with  chopped  parsley  and  slightly  dampened  with 
tomato  sauce;  put  in  the  center  of  each  the  ring  of  a  slice  of  hard- 
boiled  tgg,  with  a  slice  of  pickled  walnut  fitted  into  it. — Mrs.  E.  D. 
Bennett,  Bartlett,  111. 

PICKLE  SAVORY. — Spread  any  savory  sauce,  cream  cheese 
on  oblong  pieces  of  bread,  and  arrange  lengthwise  on  this  thin 
slices  of  small  sour  pickles  in  a  neat  row.  Sprinkle  with  paprika. — 
Mrs.  A.  €.  Christy,  Glen  View,  111. 

SWEET  PIMENTO  SAVORY.— Toast  fresh  bread,  cut  into 
shapes,  and  butter  1  side  and  arrange  a  trimmed  piece  of  canned 
Spanish  pimento,  s-prinkled  with  celery  salt;  set  under  the  gas 
flame  of  a  gas  stove  for  5  minutes  to  heat. — Mrs.  May  C.  May. 
Mayfair,  111. 

TOMATO  SAVORY.— Cut  rounds  of  bread  the  size  of  the 
tomatoes  to  be  used  and  toast  on  1  side;  then  ibutter  the  other  side 
and  arrange  on  each  a  slice  of  tomato,  dredge  with  salt,  pepper,  and 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         123 

dry  mustard,  sprinkle  with  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup,  and  set 
under  the  burners  of  a  gas  stove  for  5  minutes,  or  until  heated,  but 
not  softened.  Garnish  with  water-cress  to  serve. — ^Mrs.  Frank 
Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

SANDWICHES 

There  is  not  a  'more  tasty  way  of  using  up  left-overs  in  small 
quantities  than  in  sandwiches.  Every  bit  can  be  utilized,  made  to 
go  farther  and  materially  help  to  solve  the  noon  meal  pro-blem. 
If  any  members  of  the  family  carry  lunch,  sandwiches  are  neces- 
sary, for  the  lunch  box;  if  not,  they  may  be  served  with  any  suit- 
able meat,  vegetable,  tgg  or  salad  accompaniment.  This  depart- 
ment provides  tasty-  sandwiches  for  the  purpose  of  using  up  left- 
overs, supplying  the  lunch-box,  picnics,  the  home  luncheon  and  the 
afternoon  reception. 

Bread  for  sandwiches  should  be  24  hrs.  old  and  may  be  white, 
whole  wheat,  graham,  rye  or  brown  bread.  Two  kinds  may  be  used 
in  the  same  sandwich.  Slice  as  thin  as  possible,  not  more  than  }i 
of  an  inch  thick;  remove  crusts,  keeping  the  slices  in  pairs,  cut  in 
oblong,  triangular,  square,  round  or  other  preferred  shapes.  Fancy 
cutters  'may  be  obtained  in  heart,  diamond,  crescent  and  other 
shapes  for  use  in  making  reception  sandwiches.  , 

Prepare  the  butter  by  working  it  with  a  knife  or  spoon.  Never 
heat  the  butter  to  soften  it,  as  it  injures  the  flavor.  Spread  butter 
on  one  slice  and  the  filling  on  the  other  and  press  lightly  together. 
Wrap  in  paraffine  paper,  or  if  a  large  number  is  to  be  made  place  in 
a  crock  with  a  damp  towel  and  board  or  plate  over  the  top. 

Brown  bread  sandwiches  are  especially  suited  for  serving  with 
any  kind  of  fish  salads  or  cold  fish.  Nasturtium  and  caper  sand- 
wiches should  accompany  mutton  salad,  chopped  cress  or  parsley 
sandwiches  with  beef  salad. 

If  cold  meat  or  fowl  are  to  be  sliced  for  sandwiches  it  must  be 
very  tender,  and  sliced  thin  across  the  grain;  it  is  better  to  use 
several  bits  of  meat  than  1  slice,  and  best  results  may  be  secured 
by  putting  the  meat  through  a  food  chopper. 

When  sand\viches  are  served  at  a  table  they  should  be  placed 
on  a  doily-covered  plate,  garnished  with  watercress,  parsley,  nas- 
turtium leaves  or  flowers,  or  celery  tops. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105 
S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


124  BREAD 

ANCHOVY  SANDWICHES.-^Chop  the  anchovies  fine  and 
rub  them  to  a  paste  with  hard-boiled  eggs  minced,  and  butter,  and 
season  to  taste.  This  is  nicer  spread  on  graham  bread,  but  is 
very  good  with  the  white.  Chopped  cress  or  parsley  makes  a  nice 
addition  to  the  eggs  and  anchovies.  Grated  cheese,  curry  powder 
or  cayenne  make  a  good  seasoning.  Chopped  pickles  and  capers 
may  be  added  to  the  anchovies  and  hard-boiled  eggs. — Mabel  Stur- 
tevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ANNIVERSARY      OR     VALENTINE      SANDWICHES.— 

Spread  the  end  of  the  loaves  of  white  and  brown  bread  with  butter 
or  mayonnaise  dressing  and  cut  ofif  in  thin  wafer-like  slices.  With  a 
heart-shaped  cooky-cutter  cut  a  heart  from  each  slice  of  (brown 
bread  and  from  the  white  slice  a  diamond-shaped  piece.  Use  one 
kind  of  filling  for  the  brown  sandwiches,  and  another  kind  for  the 
white.     Reverse  the  order, — 'Mrs.  C.  J.  Jefifries,  Winnetka,  111. 

APPLE  SANDWICHES.— Chop  uncooked  apples  fine,  mix 
with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  spread  between  slices  of  well  but- 
tered bread.  To  this  combination  may  be  added  chopped  celery, 
white  grapes,  seasoned  with  oil  and  lemon  juice,  and  chopped  nuts. 
When  an  excess  of  nuts  are  used  they  should  be  either  chopped, 
ground  or  pounded  very  fine,  blended  with  soft  butter  and  spread 
on  the  bread  first  and  the  other  mixture  added.  Apple  sauce,  well 
seasoned  with  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  may  be  used.  If  thick  moist- 
en with  a  little  cream  and  spread  on  well-buttered  bread. — Mrs. 
Julius  Casper,  Wiheeling,  111. 

APPLE  AND  CELERY  SANDWICHES.— Peel  and  chop 
very  fine  2  large  tart  apples,  and  y^  doz,  of  the  small,  inside  stalks 
of  celery;  sprinkle  lightly  wih  salt.  Spread  between  them  slices,  of 
buttered  brown  bread. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

BANANA  SANDWICHES.— Either  mashed  bananas  with 
some  kind  of  berries  or  alone  and  moisten  with  sweet  cream  or  slice 
the  bananas,  season  with  lemon  juice  and  sweeten  with  honey  and 
moisten  with  cream, — E,  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Butter  thin  slices  of  bread  and  spread  with 
mayonnaise  dressing  and  thin  slices  of  bananas. — Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  125 

BACON  SANDWICHES.— Fry  thin  slices  of  bacon  and  lay 
between  slices  of  bread.  If  a  still  heartier  sandwich  is  desired,  the 
yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  may  be  blended  with  butter  and  spread 
on  the  bread  first  and  the  finely  chopped  whites,  mixed  with  a  little 
salad  dressing,  spread  on  top  of  the  bacon. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105 
S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  BEAN  SANDWICHES.— Rub  2  cups  of  baked  beans 
through  a  fruit  press,  add  1  teaspoon  each  of  finely  iminced  parsley 
and  celery,  1  teaspoon  of  onion  juice  and  ]/^  teaspoon  of  made 
mustard.  Spread  between  thin  buttered  slices  of  whole  wheat 
bread. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

HOT  BEAN  SANDWICHES.— When  making  lima  bean  soup, 
save  out  some  of  the  beans,  rub  them  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a 
tablespoon,  season  to  taste.  Toast  thin  slices  of  whole  wheat 
bread,  and  over  tliese  pour  enough  hot  milk  to  moisten  slightly; 
spread  with  a  liberal  layer  of  the  bean  puree  and  cover  with  an- 
other slice  of  toast  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  Carson,  205  S.  5th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

CORNED  BEEF  SANDWICHES.— Lay  very  thin  slices  of 
corned  beef  on  buttered  bread,  press  oven  another  slice,  thickly 
spread  with  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

BEEF  HEART  SANDWICHES.— Chop  finely  left-over  beef 
heart,  mix  with  chopped  celery  and  mayonnaise  dressing,  and 
spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread.  Press  another  slice  over  lightly. — 
Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

HOT  BEEF  SANDWICHES.— Bruise  and  scrape  beef.  Spread 
it  between  2  slices  of  bread,  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  the  whole 
on  a  griddle;  heat  thoroughly  over  live  coals,  or  take  slices  of  hot 
roast  beef  and  lay  between  slices  of  bread  and  dip  over  a  spoonful 
of  gravy. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

BOBOTEE  SANDWICHES.— Put  through  a  meat  chopper,  2 
Spanish  sweet  peppers,  a  ^  pt.  of  blanched  almonds,  1  small  onion, 
and  1  sour  apple.  Season  this  mixture  with  1  teaspoon  of  curry 
powder,  a  ^  teaspoon  of  salt  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Mix 
again  and  put  between  thin  slices  of  buttered  whole  wheat  bread. 
Trim  off  the  crust  and  cut  in  trian^les.^Mrs.  J.  S.  Putnam,  Wheel- 
ing, 111. 


126  BREAD 

BOSTON  GIRL'S  SANDWICHES.— Cut  thin  and  butter  1  slice 
each  of  white  and  brown  bread.  Spread  with  mashed  Boston- 
baked  'beans,  finely  chopped  mustard  pickles,  or  salted  watercress, 
or  the  petals  of  nasturtium  flowers. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka, 
111. 

BROWN  BREAD  SANDWICHES.— Slice  and  butter  Boston 
brown  bread,  which  has  been  baked  in  baking  powder  cans.  Wash, 
drain  and  dry  crisp  leaves  of  lettuce.  Place  lettuce  between  the 
bread,  allowing  the  curly  edge  to  come  out  over  the  sides.  On 
the  top  off  bread  press  ^  an  English  walnut. — ^^Mrs.  Conklin,  914 
N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BROWN   BREAD    SANDWICHES   WITH    CHEESE.— I»i- 

stead  of  nut  and  lettuce  leaf,  use  thin  slices  of  cheese. — Mrs.  Conk- 
lin, 914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  FOLDS.— Remove  end  slice  from 
bread.  Spread  end  of  loaf  evenly  with  butter  which  has  been 
creamed.  Cut  off  as  thin  a  slice  as  possible.  Repeat  until  the 
number  of  slices  required  are  prepared.  Remove  crusts,  put  to- 
gether in  pairs,  and  cut  in  squares,  oblongs  or  triangles.  Use 
white,  entire  wheat,  graham  or  brown  bread.  Three-layer  sand- 
wiches are  attractive  when  made  of  entire  wheat  bread  between 
white  slices. — Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  111. 

BRUNETTE  SANDWICHES.— Slice  Boston  brown  bread 
very  thin,  butter  lightly  and  spread  with  cottage  cheese.  Have 
ready  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  dip  each  in  a  bowl  of  salad  dressing, 
then  lay  on  the  bread,  press  another  slice  of  brown  bread  on  this 
and  the  sandwich  is  ready.  They  must  be  kept  in  a  moist  atmos- 
phere until  it  is  time  to  serve  them. — Mrs.  Ella  Fairchild,  Palatine, 
111. 

CANNIBAL  SANDWICHES.— Put  a  pound  raw  beef  through 
a  meat  chopper  or  mince  it  very  fine  in  a  chopping  bowl;  add  1 
teaspoon  of  salt,  a  ^iash  of  red  pepper  and  1  tablespoon  of  onion 
juice.  Spread  this  over  buttered  rye  or  brown  bread,  cover  with 
another  piece  of  bread  and  trim  off  all  the  crust.  Chopped  onion 
may  be  used  in  place  of  onion  juice,  and  a  thin  layer  of  mustard 
will  improve  the  sandwich  for  some  tastes. — Mrs.  Jane  Evers, 
Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  127 

CAVIAR  SANDWICHES.— Cut  slices  of  bread  into  diamond 
or  crescent  shapes,  butter  1  side  and  toast  to  a  light  brown.  Rub 
the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs  through  a  fruit  press,  and  chop  the 
whites  very  fine,  and  spread  the  toast  with  a  layer  of  caviar. 
Sprinkle  over  with  a  little  of  the  whites,  then  a  little  of  the  yolks, 
a  slight  sprinkling  of  salt  and  paprika  pepper;  garnish  the  dish 
on  which  they  are  served  with  rings  of  sliced  onions  and  sliced 
olives. — Mrs.  Eloisc  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

CELERY  SANDWICHES.— Crisp  chopped  celery  mixed  with 
mayonnaise  dressing  makes  a  tasty  sandwich.  Other  ingredients 
may  be  added  to  suit  taste,  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  apples,  nuts, 
olives  or  lettuce  may  be  added  in  any  proportion  or  combination 
desired.  If  this  sandwich  is  desired  for  a  luncheon  the  following 
combination  is  a  very  tasty  one.  Remove  the  shells  from  4  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Chop  the  whites  very  fine  and  put  them  through  a 
vegetable  press;  mix  with  them  shredded  celery  to  taste.  Cut  the 
crust  from  the  end  of  a  slice  of  bread,  butter  the  loaf,  cut  off  a 
slice  %  inch  thick,  put  over  it  a  layer  of  white  of  tgg  and  celery, 
then  a  layer  of  mayonnaise,  on  top  of  this  a  layer  of  the  yolk  put 
through  a  sieve,  and  over  all  another  slice  of  bread.  Press  the 
whole  together  gently  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  the  crusts, 
leaving  the  sandwich  perfectly  square.  Line  a  platter  with  lettuce 
leaves,  and  stand  aside  for  20  minutes.  These  sandwiches  arc 
especially  nice  for  picnics,  as  they  will  keep  in  good  condition  for 
24  hours. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — There  are  an  endless  number  of  combina- 
tions with  cheese  which  make  a  palatable  sandwich  and  a  very 
inexpensive  one.  Grated  cheese  may  be  rubbed  to  a  paste  with 
butter  and  spread  on  slices  of  thin  bread.  Chopped  hard-boiled 
eggs  imay  be  mixed  with  the  above  combination  and  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Minced  parsley  and  chives  may  be  rubbed  to  a 
paste  with  the  cheese  and  butter  and  seasoning.  Equal  parts  of 
grated  cheese  and  chopped  nuts,  fresh  or  salted,  make  a  nice  com- 
bination seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  If  cheese  is  sliced  it  may 
be  laid  between  slices  of  bread  and  seaspned  with  salt  and  pepper, 
but  the  cheese  must  be  very  thin  for  this  kind  of  sandwich.  Mus- 
tard may  be  spread  on  for  those  who  prefer  it.  Cottage  soft, 
eream  cheese  with   chopped  crystalized  sugar  may  be  made   up 


128  BREAD 

into  sandwiches  with  gingerbread,  and  it  is  very  delicious.  Tain 
or  marmalade  may  be  used  with  cream  cheese  and  spread  on 
brown  bread. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION   II.— CHEESE    SANDWICHES.— Cut    cheese 

in  slices  about  ^  inch  thick  and  lay  between  well-buttered  slices 
of  bread.  The  cheese  can  be  grated  and  rubbed  to  a  paste  with 
butter. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION    III.— CHEESE    SANDWICHES.— Cream    ^ 

cup  of  butter  and  Yz  lb.  rich  cheese  together,  chop  either  celery  or 
olives  very  fine,  spread  "sea  foam"  wafers  with  the  cheese,  sprinkle 
the  olives,  add  another  wafer,  and  place  in  cool  place  until  ready 
to  serve. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

DEVILED  CHEESE  SANDWICHES.— 1  lb.  cheese,  grated, 
1  small  cup  of  butter,  beat  to  a  cream.  Add  1  tablespoon  mustard, 
•mixed  with  a  little  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper,  Y^  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  all  together,  and  spread  on  bread; 
make  into  sandwiches,  and  serve. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

CHEESE  AND  OLIVE  SANDWICHES.— Mix  cream  cheese 
and  slices  of  olives  with  a  fork.  If  too  stifif,  moisten  with  cream;  a 
small  quantity  of  olives  may  be  added  if  desired;  spread  on  bread, 
place  over  a  lettuce  leaf  dipped  in  salad  dressing,  and  press  an- 
other slice  of  bread  over  lightly. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Sanford,  Wheeling, 
111. 

CHEESE  AND  PIMENTO  SANDWICHES.— Mince  2  cans 
pimentos,  drained  from  the  liquid;  add  a  small  cream  cheese  and 
mix  thoroughly;  spread  on  slices  of  bread  and  press  a  buttered 
slice  over. — -Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHERRY  SANDWICHES.-^Candied  cherries,  chopped  fine, 
and  mixed  with  cream,  orange  juice  or  maraschino  make  a  tasty 
sandwioh. — 'Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHICKEN  AND  HAM  SANDWICHES.-^Mince  cold  chicken 
and  add  a  little  minced  ham,  stir  in  a  cup  of  boiling  gravy.  Set 
the  whole  before  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes.  Cut  slices  of  old 
bread  with  a  round  tin  cutter  and  fry  them.  Spread  a  layer  of 
fowl  and  ham  between  2  of  them,  add  a  piece  of  cheese  and  butter 
rubbed  into  a  paste.  Set  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111.  ^ 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  129 

CHICKEN  SALAD  SANDWICHES.— Cut  slices  of  -bread 
very  thin,  remove  the  crust,  spread  very  thinly  with  chicken,  salt 
and  press  together. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winneka,  111. 

CHOCOLATE  SANDWICHES.-^Melt  a  small  piece  of  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  add  grated  chocolate,  season  with  sugar.  When 
chocolate  and  sugar  are  thoroughly  melted  and  blended  set  from 
the  fire  to  cool;  when  cold  mix  with  a  little  cream  and  spread  on 
slices  of  bread. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Bensen,  111. 

CLOVER  SANDWICHES.— Pick  a  good  sized  basket  of  fresh, 
sweet  clover.  Be  sure  that  it  is  free  from  dirt  a.nd  sand.  Put  a 
thick  layer  in  a  large  stone  crock.  Lay  over  this  a  pound  of  sweet 
butter  wrapped  in  cheesecloth.  Spread  over  more  clover;  cover 
the  crock  and  stand  in  a  cold  place  over  night.  The  aroma  of  the 
clover  permeates  the  bread  and  the  butter,  and  when  wanted  for 
use  make  the  same  as  bread  and  butter  sandwiches.  These  are 
usually  cut  into  three  strips  to  make  "finger"  sandwiches.  Violet 
and  rose  sandwiches  are  made  in  the  same  manner,  A  few  petals 
of  the  flowers  may  ibe  spread  over  the  butter  before  putting  the 
slices  together. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 

CLUB  SANDWICHES.— Butter  toast  while  hot  and  put  on 

each  alternate  slice  a  lettuce  leaf,  same  cold  baked  chicken  cut  in 
thin  slices,  a  few  chopped  olives  and  pickles,  some  slices  of  hot, 
crisp  bacon,  a  layer  of  salad  dressing,  another  lettuce  leaf,  and  the 
other  slice  of  toast.  Press  the  sandwiches  together,  trim  off  crust 
and  cut  in  halves  from  opposite  corners,  forming  triangles. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Deariborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Toast  thin  slices  of  brown  or  white  bread; 
butter  lightly  and  lay  over  thin  slices  of  crisp  fried  bacon.  Lay 
another  thin  slice  of  toast,  then  thin  slice  of  chicken,  well  seasoned, 
another  slice  of  buttered  toast  and  a  thin  layer  of  cucumber  pickle, 
sliced  crosswise.  On  the  top  put  another  slice  of  buttered  toast, — 
Mrs.  C.  J,  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111, 

VARIATION  II. — On  a  thin  slice  of  buttered,  untoasted  bread 
lay  1  lettuce  leaf;  on  this  lay  1  thin  slice  of  chicken  and  1  of  ham, 
then  another  lettuce  leaf  and  another  thin,  buttered  slice.   Mayon- 


130  BREAD 

naise  dressing  may  be  put  on  the  lettuce  leaves  if  desired, — Mrs. 
Chas.  Ellis,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  III. — Arrange  on  slices  of  bread  thin  slices  of 
cooked  bacon;  cover  vi^ith  slices  of  cold  roast  chicken,  and  cover 
chicken  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Cover  with  slices  of  bread. — 
Mrs.  C.  E.  Clarkson,  Wilmette,  111. 

COCOANUT  SANDWICHES.— Moisten  grated  cocoanut, 
chopped  nuts,  and  sugar  with  lemon"  juice  or  rose  water,  and  add 
a  little  cream  between  slices  of  bread. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

COLONIAL  ROLLS.— Cut  fresh  light  bread  while  still  warm 
into  very  thin  slices,  spread  with  soft  butter,  roll  each  slice  and 
tie  with  narrow  ribbon.  These  rolls  may  be  spread  with  a  thin 
layer  of  any  sandwich  preparation  desired  and  then  rolled.  In 
this  case  it  is  better  to  wrap  each  roll  in  paraffin  paper. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  III. 

MOCK  CRAB  SANDWICHES.— 2  tablespoons  of  butter, 
creamed,  %  cup  grated  cheese,  %  teaspoon  each  salt,  paprika  and 
mustard,  1  teaspoon  each  of  vinegar  and  anchovy  paste,  1  table- 
spoon of  chopped  olives  or  gherkins.  A  little  dill  may  be  added 
if  desired. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Adams,  Franklin,  111. 

CRESS  SANDWICH.— Remove  the  long  stalks  and  cut  the 
cress  quite  small,  and  place  between  bread  and  butter. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  III. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD  SANDWICHES.— Slice  cucumbers 
very  thin,  put  on  them  a  dressing  of  olive  oil,  lemon,  salt,  and  a 
dash  of  red  pepper.  Let  stand  1  hr.;  lay  between  thin,  small 
squares  of  white  bread.  Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

CURRY  SANDWICHES.— Chop  the  whites  of  4  hard-boiled 
eggs  very  fine  and  put  the  yolks  through  a  sieve.  Cut  the  slices 
from  the  end  of  the  loaf  of  bread,  buttering  before  cutting  each 
slice.  Cover  5^2  the  slices  with  the  white  of  tgg.  Lay  on  5  or  6 
pickled  oysters,  a  dusting  of  curry,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  then 
a  layer  of  yolks,  and  cover  with  another  piece  of  bread.     These 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         131 

sandwiches  are  capable  of  great  variations;  the  bread  may  be 
covered  with  chopped  cress,  and  then  oysters,  then  garnished 
with  the  yolks,  onion  juice,  curry,  and  salt  sprinkled  over;  and  if 
served  for  lunch  they  may  be  left  without  a  top  covering  of  bread 
and  eaten  with  a  fork. — Mrs.  Frank  Cress,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

DATE  SANDWICHES.— Cut  thin  slices  of  brown  bread  with 
a  small,  round  biscuit  cutter,  and  spread  with  softened  butter. 
Make  a  mixture  of  equal  parts  of  blanched  and  browned  almonds, 
chopped  fine,  and  dates,  chopped;  squeeze  over  orange  juice  to  form 
a  paste,  and  spread. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Mince  fine  some  Turkish  dates.  Add  a  little 
water,  cooking  them  in  a  double  boiler  till  they  are  soft  and  pasty. 
Add  a  little  lemon  juice,  cool  the  dates  and  spread  on  thinly  cut 
bread.  Sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  hickory  nuts  and  cover  with 
buttered  bread. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

DATE  AND  NUT  SANDWICHES.— Mix  equal  quantities  of 
chopped  dates  and  nuts,  moisten  with  cream,  if  necessary,  and 
spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. — E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

DILL  SANDWICHES.— Butter  slices  of  white  bread;  cover  ^ 
the  slices  with  thin  slices  of  white  meat  of  roasted  chicken;  put 
over  this  a  thin  layer  of  dill  pickles.  Cover  with  another  piece  of 
buttered  bread,  trim  off  the  crusts,  cut  into  triangles  and  serve 
with  lettuce  leaves. — ^Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

DUCK  SANDWICHES.— Cut  hard-boiled  eggs  into  rings,  lay 
over  thin  slices  of  smoked  breasts  of  duck,  squeeze  a  little  lemon 
over  them,  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  pepper,  and'  cover  them  with  well- 
buttered  slices  of  bread  and  butter. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka, 
III. 

EGG  SANDWICHES — Chop  the  whites  of  the  hard-boiled  eggs 
very  fine.  Mix  the  yolks  smooth  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  add 
the  whites,  and  spread  on  the  bread. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th 
Ave.,  MaywocKi,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Pound  the  yolks  of  eggs  with  a  small  quan- 
tity of  butter  in  a  mortar,  and  add  pounded  cheese.  Make  into 
sandwiches. — Mrs,  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 


132  BREAD 

VARIATION  II.— Cut  6  hard-toiled  eggs  into  slices.  Prepare 
thin  slices  of  bread  and  fbutter,  place  the  eggs  between;  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  lit^tle  dry  mustard.  Trim  and  cut  the  sand- 
wiches.— Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

EGG  AND  OLIVE  SANDWICHES.— Mince  a  hard-cooked 
egg  and  add  2  olives,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Moisten  with  French 
dressing  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105 
S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

FARMERS'  SANDWICHES.— Rub  to  a  smooth  paste  ^  pt. 
cottage  cheese,  adding  gradually  4  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  or 
olive  oil,  or  thick  cream;  add  salt  and  black  pepper.  Spread  the 
loaf  with  butter,  after  you  have  removed  the  crust  slice;  cut  off  a 
thin  slice,  spread  it  with  the  cheese  mixture.— Mrs.  Waldon  Em- 
mery, Glencoe,  111. 

FRENCH  SANDWICHES.— Fish,  game,  poultry,  or  any  other 
meat  may  be  used  for  these  sandwiches.  To  1  pt.  of  any  of  these 
add  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Add  2  tablespoons  of  capers  and  sufficient  mayonnaise  to 
soften.  When  this  mixture  has  been  spread  on  the  bread  add  a 
sprinkling  of  finely  chopped  cress.  Rub  the  yolk  of  1  egg  through 
a  sieve  and  chop  the  white  very  fine.  If  the  sandwiches  are  to  be 
served  at  home  for  luncheons,  etc.,  add  a  sprinkling  of  the  yolk  to 
the  cress  on  half  the  number  of  sandwiches  and  the  chopped  whites 
to  the  other  half.  Then  arrange  them  in  groups  of  twos,  1  of  each 
color  on  the  serving  plates. — Mrs.  Almond  Case,  Palatine,  111. 

FISH  SANDWICHES.— Place  thin  scallops  of  any  fish  and 
tartar  sauce  on  buttered  bread.  Put  a  layer  of  finely-sliced  lettuce 
on  top  of  the  sauce,  cover  with  a  slice  of  bread.  Serve,  cut  into 
squares. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Take  left-over  fish  of  any  kind  and  chop  it 

up  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  moisten  with  cheese  or  Worcestershire 
sauce,  or  chop  up  the  fish  with  pickles  and  mayonnaise.  If  the  fish 
is  to  be  pounded  to  paste,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  during 
the  pounding.  Plain  white  sauce  may  be  used  for  the  imoistening. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  III. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  133 

FRUIT  SANDWICHES.— Almost  any  kind  of  fruit  may  be 
used,  according  to  taste.  Chopped  candied  cherries,  peaches,  apri- 
cots, pears,  bananas,  or  any  other  fruit  desired,  moistened  with 
melted  butter  and  spread  between  bread.  This  makes  a  tasty 
sandwich  to  follow  a  meat  or  egg  sandwich.  If  prunes,  figs,  dates, 
raisins,  or  other  dried  fruit  are  to  be  used,  remove  all  stems,  wash 
and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  with  a  small  quantity  of  water,  until 
a  paste  is  formed,  then  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Cool  the 
mixture,  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread;  sprinkle  with 
finely  chopped  peanuts  and  cover  with  pieces  of  buttered  bread. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— All  kinds  of  mixed  dried  fruits  may  be 
soaked  in  water  for  an  hr.  or  two,  then  chopped  or  ground  and 
used  for  sandwich  filling.  Season  with  lemon,  orange,  or  a  little 
grape  juice;  raisins,  currants,  dried  cherries,  prunes,  may  be  used 
singly  or  iblended.  In  blending,  use  a  sweet  and  sour  fruit,  as 
cherries  and  prunes,  raisins  and  prunes,  etc. — Mabel  Sturtevant, 
105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

GAME  SANDWICHES.— Cut  the  meat  in  very  thin  slices 
from  roasted  partridges,  grouse  or  any  ga'me.  Lay  the  meat  on 
delicately  thin,  fresh  toast,  strew  celery  over  and  season  well  with 
tartar  sauce. — ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

GERMAN  SANDWICHES.— Spread  between  butter  slices  of 
rye  bread,  chopped  beef,  cheese,  chicken  or  fish,  covered  with  finely 
chopped  pickles,  or  bologna  sausage.  Cover  over  with  a  slice  of 
rye  bread.  If  they  are  to  be  served  on  the  table  cut  into  strips  not 
over  Yt.  inch  wide  and  the  length  of  the  slice. — Mrs.  Ed.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Butter  and  spread  mustard  on  graham  or 
rye  bread.  Put  a  layer  of  chopped  olives  over  and  1  of  cottage 
cheese. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

HAM  SANDWICHES.— Put  a  thin  slice  of  ham  in  slightly 
buttered  (bread.  Add  lettuce  if  preferred. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

DEVILED  HAM  SANDWICHES.— Chop  fine  1  cup  of  cold 
'boiled  ham.     Rub  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs  smooth  with  3 


134  BREAD 

tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  mix  with  the  ham,  %  teaspoon  of 
mustard,  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  season  to  taste.  Spread 
on  thin  slices  of  bread. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

MINCED  HAM  SANDWICHES.— Mince  left-over  ham,  fine, 
add  finely  chopped  pickle  and  celery  in  the  quantities  desired,  mix 
with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  spread  on  a  thin  slice  of  bread. 
Press  a  buttered  slice  of  bread  over  lightly. — ^Miss  Mary  E.  Kelley, 
6606  Green  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

HASH  SANDWICHES.— Cut  pieces  of  bread  into  uniform 
sizes,  dip  them  in  beaten  eggs,  to  which  a  little  milk  and  a  pinch  of 
salt  has  been  added.  Fry  to  a  light  brown  in  hot  butter,  make  a  hash 
of  chopped  meat  and  potatoes.  Cook  in  stock  until  heated  through. 
Arrange  on  toast  on  a  platter,  putting  a  spoonful  of  hash  on  each 
slice  of  toast  and  covering  with  another  slice. — ^Mrs.  Ralph  Char- 
ters, Park  Ridge,  111. 

HONOLULU  SANDWICHES.— Put  pared  sour  apple,  1  red 
Spanish  pepper,  1  green  sweet  pepper,  and  1  Neufchatel  cheese 
through  a  meat  chopper.  Add  J^  teaspoon  of  salt;  mix  and  spread 
ibetween  thin  slices  of  brown  bread. — Mrs.  Chas.  Johnston,  Des 
Plaines,  111. 

HORSERADISH  SANDWICHES.— Season  freshly  grated 
horseradish  with  lemon  juice  and  rub  it  to  a  paste  with  butter  and 
spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread. — Mrs.  C.  Buttercup,  Bensen,  111. 

INDIAN  SANDWICHES.— Remove  the  skins  and  bones  from 
2  sardines;  pound  the  meat  to  a  paste;  add  1  teaspoon  of  anchovy 
paste,  a  dasli  of  salt  and  red  pepper,  and  rub  in  the  hard-boiled 
yolks  of  6  eggs.  Add  2  tablespoons  of  olive  oil.  Spread  on  pieces 
of  toasted  bread  and  serve  hot.  These  sandwiches  are  nice  for 
cold  suppers. — Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson,  Franklin,  111. 

JAM  SANDWICHES.— Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  very  smoothly 
with  a  tablespoon  each  of  flour  and  ground  rice,  add  a  pinch  of 
salt,  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  Yz  pt.  of  thick  cream  and  %  pt.  of  new 
milk.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  firm  froth,  add  them  last  of 
all,  beat  the  mixture  for  4  or  5  minutes.  Butter  2  large  plates,  put 
in  the  mixture,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  it  is  set  and  lightly 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         135 

browned.  Spread  jam  over  one  of  the  cakes  and  lay  the  other  one 
on  top,  the  browned  part  uppermost.  Sift  sugar  over  it  before 
serving. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

JELLY  SANDWICHES.— Jelly  of  any  flavor  makes  a  nice 
sweet  sandwich.  Have  the  bread  well  spread  with  butter  before 
jelly  is  put  on.  Crabapple  jelly  is  good  on  whole  wheat  bread, 
spread  with  thick  cream,  and  seasoned  with  salt.  Lemon  jelly, 
thickly  moulded,  with  chopped  nuts,  dates,  figs,  and  bananas,  makes 
a  rich  jelly  sandwich.  Any  jelly,  jam  or  marmalade,  mixed  with 
any  kind  of  chopped  nuts,  makes  a  good  combination.  Quince  jelly 
is  especially  nice  when  mixed  with  English  walnuts.  Mint  jelly, 
to  which  whipped  cream  may  be  added  just  before  it  stiffens,  may 
be  cut  in  thin  slices  when  cold  and  laid  between  the  slices  of 
bread. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

LAMB  SANDWICHES.— Chopped  roast  lamb,  seasoned  with 
minced  olives,  tomato  catsup,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  with  salad 
dressing. — Mrs.  D,  O.  Dooley,  Bensen,  111. 

LETTUCE  SANDWICHES.— Sprinkle  fresh,  crisp  lettuce 
leaves  with  a  little  salt,  lay  them  for  a  few  moments  in  a  folded 
napkin.  Then  put  them  between  the  slices  of  buttered  bread. 
Spread  over  a  dressing  of  mayonnaise,  if  preferred. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — If  these  sandtwiches  are  to  be  served  on 
the  table  they  should  be  prepared  just  before  meal  time. 
Spread  thick  salad  dressing  upon  1  slice  of  bread,  butter  on  the 
other;  and  place  a  crisp  leaf  between,  allowing  it  to  show  on  all 
sides.  Cress  may  be  added  to  a  plain  lettuce  sandwich  for  variety. 
Graham  bread  may  be  used  for  this  mixture.  Pimentos  may  be 
added  to  the  lettuce  leaves,  if  desired. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

LIVER  SANDWICHES.--Make  a  salad  filling  with  boiled 
calf's  liver  mashed  with  melted  butter  and  cream  and  seasoned 
with  poultry  seasoning,  or  mashed  cooked  fowl  livers  and  seasoned 
with  Worcestershire  aauce  and  onion  juice.  Mashed  boiled  chest- 
nuts, imixed  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice,  make  a  nice  combi- 
nation with  fowl  livers. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn,  Wilmette,  111. 


136  *  BREAD 

LIVERWURST  SANDWICHES.— Chop  cooked  liverwurst 
fine,  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing",  spread  on  a  slice  of  white 
'bread,  press  buttered  slice  over  and  cut  in  triangles. — Mrs.  E.  G. 
Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

LOBSTER  SANDWICHES.— These  may  be  made  from 
chopped,  cooked  lobster,  seasoned  with  talbasco,  lemon  juice  and  oil 
and  a  little  chopped  cucumber,  if  desired;  left-over  lobster  salad, 
chopped  cooked  lobster  and  fried  mushrooms,  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper,  onion  juice,  tomato  catsup  and  lemon  juice.  Remove  lobster 
meat  from  shell,  and  chop.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne,  made  mustard 
arid  lemon  juice;  or  ."moisten  with  any  salad  dressing.  Spread  mix- 
tui't^'Oft^'^'icrisp  lettuce  leaf -and  prepare  as  other  sandwiches.  Cut 
the  meat  of  1  boiled  lobster  into  dice  1  hr.  before  using,  dust  with 
salt,  red  pepper,  and  either  lemon  juice  or  tarragon  vinegar.  Near 
serving  time  put  a  goodly  layer  of  loibster  over  1  piece  of  bread, 
cover  vyith  another,  press  the  2  together,  cut  in  triangles  and  serve. 
— Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearl^orn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  BOULEVARD.— Mix  an  equal  quantity  of 
finely  chopped  lobster  meat  and  the  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs, 
forced  through  a  sieve.  Moisten  with  melted  butter  and  season 
with  German  mustard,  beef  extract,  diluted  with  a  very  small 
quantity  of  boiling  water  and  salt.  Spread  mixture  between  thin 
slices  of  buttered  bread,  remove  crusts  and  cut  into  fancy  shapes. 
A  small  quantity  of  left-over  lobster  meat  is  most  successfully 
used  in  this  way. — Mrs.  Ernest  D.  Dean,  Glen  View,  111. 

MARMALADE  SANDWICHES.— Any  kind  of  marmalade 
makes  a  nice  sandwich.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of  white  bread,  but- 
tered, or  on  toasted  bread,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  C,  C.  Cleveland, 
Bartlett,  III. 

MEAT  SANDWICHES.— Any  left-over  meat  of  any  kind  or 

quantity  inray  be  worked  up  into  sandwiches  with  no  loss  and  in  a 
very  tasty,  appetizing  manner.  If  the  pieces  are  small,  or  if  it  is 
not  desired  sliced,  it  may  be  chopped  with  lemon  juice  and  mus- 
tard, and  moistened  with  butter  and  cream.  It  is  g"ood  served  on 
brown  bread.  Chopped  meat  and  celery  with  tartar  sauce  make 
a  nice   combination. — Mrs.   Ella   Fairchild,   Palatine,   111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         137 

MINT  SANDWICHES.— Chop  the  leaves. from  a  dozen  stalks 
of  fresh  mint,  add  a  little  French  dressing,  spread  a  thin  layer  over 
buttered  bread.  Fold  the  slice  or  roll  it.  Serve  with  green  pea 
salad  at  an  afternoon  or  evening  tea  or  luncheon. — ^Mrs.  C.  C. 
Cleveland,  Bartlett,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Pulverize  1  tablespoon  of  mint  leaves;  pour 
over  them  2  tablespoons  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  stand  for  about 
Yz  an  hr.  Soak  ^  an  oz.  of  gelatine  in  1  tablespoon  of  water. 
Dissolve  it  over  hot  water,  strain  the  mint  into  the  gelatine,  and 
when  cool  add  a  pt.  of  rich  whipped  cream  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Let  this  stand  in  a  mould  until  perfectly  cold  and  firm.  Slice  thin 
and  put  between  dainty  slices  of  bread. — Mrs.  Ella  Fairchild,  Pala- 
tine, 111. 

MUSHROOM  SANDWICHES.— Take  cold  stewed  mush- 
rooms, split,  and  spread  them  between  slices  of  entire  wheat  bread. 
— Mrs.  C.  E.  Westinghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

MIXED  SANDWICHES— Chop  fine  1  \h.  boiled  ham,  1  box 
sardines,  6  good-sized  cucumber  pickles.  Spread  on  bread,  and 
then  lightly  with  mustard. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

MUTTON  SANDWICHES.— Spread  bread  with  salad  dress- 
ing, mixed  with  minced  capers,  and  place  on  this  a  layer  of  chopped 
mutton,  seasoned  with  salt,  paprika  and  tomato  catsup,  or  chopped 
roast  mutton,  seasoned  with  grated  cheese  and  mustard,  and  moist- 
ened with  cream.  Use  with  lettuce  leaves,  dipped  in  salad  dressing. 
Also  chopped  mutton,  seasoned  with  salt,  paprika,  tomato  catsup 
and  minced  capers.  Mix  with  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  Wm.  Myers, 
Franklin,  111. 

NASTURTIUM  SANDWICHES.— Mash  1  Neufchatel  cheese, 
adding  salt,  pepper  and  almond  irnilk.  Put  a  layer  of  this  paste, 
covered  with  nasturtium  flowers,  between  2  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bread.  Trim  off  the  crust  and  cut  each  into  4  triangles.  Each 
should  contain  a  flower.  Chopped  nasturtiums,  capers  and  mutton 
may  be  used  with*  mayonnaise.  Also  use  nasturtium  petals,  sea- 
soned lightly  with  salt,  with  a  few  young  leaves  added.  Place  the 
petals  so  that  they  will  show  along  the  edges  of  the  bread  and 
decorate  the  plate  with  leaves  and  flowers. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105 
S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


138  BREAD 

VARIATION  I. — Cut  bread  in  round  slices,  with  biscuit  cut- 
ter, spread  with  a  little  butter,  press  on  nasturtium  leaf,  with  or 
without  blossoms,  cover  with  a  little  mayonnaise  dressing,  place 
another  slice  of  bread,  press  together, — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N,  5th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

NOISETTE  SANDWICHES.— To  the  dough  of  whole  wheat 
flour  bread  add  2  tablespoons  molasses  and  1  cup  English  walnut 
meats  or  pecan  nuts,  broken  into  small  pieces.  Bake  and  let  stand 
24  hrs.,  slice  as  thinly  as  possible,  spread  sparingly  and  evenly  with 
butter,  and  put  between  slices  orange  miarmalade.  Remove  crusts, 
cut  in  fancy  shapes  and  garnish  with  nut  meats. — Mrs.  Castle  Hop- 
kins, Winnetka,  111. 

NORWEGIAN  SANDWICHES.— H  cup  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing, 3  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  2  tablespoons  anchovy  paste. 
Mix  the  chopped  eggs  with  the  paste  and  gradually  beat  the  dress- 
ing into  the  mixture.  Use  as  a  filling  for  rye  bread,  cut  thin.  Nor- 
wegian sandwiches  are  usualy  /made  with  but  1  piece  of  bread. — 
Mrs.  H.  A.  Sherman,  Palatine,  111. 

NUT  SANDWICHES.— Chop  equal  quantity  of  pecan  meats 
and  sour  apples.  Spread  between  2  slices  of  thin,  buttered  bread. 
Spread  lightly  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

VARIATION  I.— Spread  thinly  sliced  bread  with  softened 
butter,  then  with  equal  parts  of  chopped  English  walnuts  and 
American  Swiss  cheese,  with  a  slight  sprinkling  of  salt  and  white 
pepper. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Butter  very  thin  slices  of  Boston  brown 
bread  and  lay  finely  chopped  almonds  between  the  slices.  Salt 
them  very  lightly. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

NUT  BUTTER  SANDWICHES.— Cut  a  loaf  of  bread  in  two 
in  the  center,  spread  the  cut  surface  of  each  half  with  nut  butter,  and 
sprinkle  with  salt,  if  desired.  Cut  off  a  thin  slice  from  each  half 
with  a  sharp  knife,  and  lay  them  together.  Thin  slices  of  protosc, 
or  lettuce  leaf  with  salad  dressing,  or  both,  may  be  laid  between 
the  slices.— Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  139 

HICKORY  NUT  AND  BANANA  SANDWICHES.— Add  2 

sliced  bananas  to  a  cup  of  chopped  hickory-nut.     Spread  between 
thin  slices  of  brown  bread. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  II. 

PEANUT  SANDWICHES.— Shell  and  remove  the  skins  from 
freshly  roasted  peanuts;  to  a  cup  of  peanuts,  chopped  fine,  add 
enough  mayonnaise  to  form  a  paste.  Spread  with  butter  thin 
slices  of  white  bread;  remove  crusts;  spread  the  peanut  dressing 
between  the  slices.— Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

OLIVE  SANDWICHES.— Stone  and  chop  olives  and  mix 
with  mayonnaise.  Butter  very  thin  slices  of  white  or  brown  bread. 
— Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

ONION  SANDWICHES.— Pour  salted  water  over  chopped 
onion  or  onion  sliced  thin  (chopped  or  cut  in  thin  slices)  and  let 
it  stand  for  a  time  to  extract  the  very  strong  flavor.  Then  spread 
between  buttered  slices  of  bread,  seasoning  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  little  mustard.  Spanish  onion,  soaked  for  an  hr.  in  ice  water,  is 
good  between  slices  of  bread  and  butter. — E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka, 
111. 

OYSTER  SANDWICHES.— Chop  1  qt.  of  solid  meats  fine, 
and  cook  in  a  boiler  set  in  hot  water;  add  8  large  crackers,  rolled 
and  sifted,  Y^  cup  of  butter,  melted,  ^  cup  of  rich  cream,  the  whites 
of  3  eggs,  salt  and  pepper;  cook  a  few  minutes,  and  turn  in  a  dish 
to  cool.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter. — Eloise  Jen- 
nings, Winnetka,  III. 

SANDWICHES  A  LA  PARISIENNE.— Use  fish,  poultry  or 
game.  If  fish  is  used,  free  the  fish  froim  bones  and  skin,  mince  it 
finely,  season  with  salt  and  cayenne,  and  put  it  into  a  basin  with  2 
hard-boiled  eggs,  finely  chopped,  some  minced  capers,  and  suffi- 
cient fish  sauce  to  moisten  the  whole.  Mix  all  well,  and  spread 
between  slices  of  thinly  cut  brown  or  white  bread.  Stamp  out 
in  small  rounds  or  squares,  press  together,  and  butter  the  tops  and 
sprinkle  over  half  hard-boiled  yolk  of  ^zz,  rubbed  through  a  sieve, 
and  on  the  other  half  the  finely  chopped  whites.  Garnish  with  a  bit 
of  curled  parsley. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

PEPPER  SANDWICH.— Chopped  green  pepper,  mixed  with 
salad  dressing,  and  seasoned  with  grated  onion.    Chopped  green 


140  BREAD 

peppers  may  be  mixed  with  cream  cheese. — Mrs.  Ralph  Charters, 
Park  Ridge,  111. 

PICNIC  SANDWICHES.— Make  fresh  fcread  rolls  rather  small 
and  with  a  tender  crisp  crust.  The  round  graham  rolls  are  exceed- 
ingly nice  for  this  purpose.  Remove  from  the  top  of  each  roll  a 
piece  of  the  crust  the  size  of  a  silver  dollar,  and  with  a  blunt  knife 
or  spoon  take  out  the  center.  Fill  the  space  with  any  highly  sea- 
soned, chopped  meat,  fish,  lobster,  crab  salad,  or  fruit.  Remove 
the  lid,  and  serve  the  sandwich  in  a  pretty  basket. — Mrs.  Chas. 
Johnston,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

PRUNE  SANDWICHES.— Chopped,  cooked  prunes,  seasoned 
with  lemon  juice.  Chopped  nuts  may  be  added,  if  desired. — Mrs. 
E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

RADISH  AND  SPRING  ONION  SANDWICHES.— Spread, 

and  cut  thinly  graham  or  whole  wheat  bread,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
slice  very  thinly  a  layer  of  radish,  over  this  a  thin  layer  of  onion, 
sprinkle  the  latter  with  pepper,  and  finish  with  another  thin  slice 
of  buttered  bread. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Adoims,  Franklin,  111. 

RAISIN  SANDWICHES.— Make  a  paste  of  large  seeded  rai- 
sins and  candied  lemon  peel,  chopped  fine,  and  moistened  with 
lemon  juice.  Spread  on  lightly  buttered,  thin  slices  of  bread.  The 
chopped  raw  raisins,  moistened  or  mixed  with  butter,  may  be  used. 
Candied  lemon  peel,  moistened  with  lemon  juice,  may  be  added  to 
this. — Mrs.  Joseph  Dunlap,  Bartlett,  111. 

"RAMONA"  SANDWICHES.— Chop  equal  quantities  of  figs, 
dates,  raisins,  citrons,  or  any  candied  fruits,  and  a  little  bit  of  can- 
died peel.  Place  lightly  in  a  square  or  round  mould  the  shape  of  the 
sandwiches,  and  pour  over  it  the  crab-apple  jelly.  Move  a  fork 
gently  through  the  mass  to  be  sure  the  jelly  settles  around  the 
fruit.  Set  the  mould  in  a  cold  place  until  firm;  then  turn  out  and 
cut  in  thin  slices.  Serve  on  thin  bits  of  buttered  New  England 
brown  bread. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

ROSE  SANDWICHES.— Take  well-buttered  slice  of  bread  on 
a  mixture  of  chopped  rose  petals  and  melted  butter.  Let  some  of 
the  petals  show  around  the  edges. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dear^ 
born  St.,  Chicago,  III. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  141 

RUSSIAN  SANDWICHES.— Spread  thin  slices  of  Boston 
brown  bread,  stampel  out  in  oval  shapes,  and  lightly  buttered  with 
Neufchatel  cheese,  or  any  cream  cheese.  Spread  also  an  equal 
nuimber  of  slices,  stamped  out  and  l)uttered,  with  fine,  chopped 
olives  and  pimentos,  mixed  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Press  to- 
gether in  pairs,  with  a  crisp  leaf  of  lettuce  between  each  pair. 
Serve  while  lettuce  leaf  is  crisp. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

SALAD  SANDWICHES.— Chop  poultry,  veal  or  lamb,  add 
finely  minced  celery,  and  moisten  with  salad  dressing.  If  celery  is 
out  of  market,  celery  salt  may  be  used.  Spread  mixture  on  bread, 
and  spread  crisp  lettuce  leaf  above.  Any  left-over  salad  may  be  util- 
ized in  this  manner. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

SALMON  SANDWICHES.— Drain  oil  from  a  can  of  salmon, 
remove  bones,  skin  and  fat;  mix  with  the  salmon  2  tablespoons  of 
crisip  pickles,  chopped  fine,  and  3  hard-boiled  eggs.  Add  1  table- 
spoon of  mustard,  juice^  of  2  lemons,  and  1  tablespoon  melted 
butter. — Miss  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SMOKED  SALMON  SANDWICHES.— Cut  thin  slices  of 
smoked  salmon,  season  with  piaprika  and  tarragon  vinegar.  Lay 
between  slices  of  bread  and  add  a  teaspoon  of  salad  dressing  to 
each  sandwich. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris,  WinnetkaV  111. 

SALSIFY  SANDWICHES.— Rub  boiled  salsify  to  a  paste 
with  cream  and  season  with  anchovy  sauce  and  cayenne. — Mrs. 
Alex.  Drexel  Park  Ridge,  111. 

SAUSAGE  SANDWICHES.— Thin  slices  of  cooked  pork,  beef, 
or  liver  sausages,  lettuce  leaves  and  cucumber  pickles. — Mrs.  H. 
B.  Sanborn,  Bartlett,  111. 

SHAD  ROE  SANDWICHES.— Among  the  daintiest  and 
most  palatable  fish  sandwiches  are  those  made  of  shad  roe.  Throw 
the  roe  into  the  boiling  water  and  add  1  slice  of  onion,  1  bay  leaf, 
and  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  simimer  gently  for  about  30  minutes,  and 
drain.  With  a  fork,  remove  the  membrane;  add,  just  a  suspicion 
of  mace,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  2 
tablespoons  of  lemon  juice.  The  mixture  may  then  be  spread  on 
thin  slices  of  brown  bread  and  butter,  or  put  in  hollowed  small  gra- 
ham or  wheat  rolls. — 'Mrs.  C.  C.  Clancey,  Kenilworth,  111. 


142  BREAD 

SHRIMP  SANDWICHES.— Mash  shrimps,  season  with  lemon 
juice,  and  mix  with  mayonnaise,  or  chop  the  shrimps,  rub  to  a 
paste  with  oil  and  season  with  lemon  juice,  paprika,  celery  salt  and 
Worcestershire. — Mrs.  Ethan  Earle,  Mayfair,  111. 

SPINACH  SANDWICHES.— Chop  cooked  spinach  and  hard- 
iboiled  eggs,  mi^ed  with  tartar  sauce.  Or  chop  cooked  spinach, 
parsley  and  capers,  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  butter. — Mrs.  C.  E. 
Clarkson,  Wilmette,  111. 

STRAWBERRY  SANDWICHES.— Rub  strawberries  to  a 
paste  with  butter  and  confectioners'  sugar,  or  cut  large  strawber- 
ries in  halves,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  lay  between  very  thin  slices 
of  bread. — ^Mrs.  Jane  Evers,  Winnetka,  111. 

STURGEON  SANDWICHES.— Flake  sturgeon  finely,  mix 
with  salad  dressing  and  chopped  capers,  ladd  a  teaspoon  of  lemon 
juice  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

SWEET  SANDWICHES.-^ny  kind  of  jelly,  jaim  or  fruit. 
Chopped  candied  cherries  and  seeded  raisins,  seasoned  with  sherry 
and  lemon  juice. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Clancy,  Kenilworth,  111. 

SWEETBREAD  SANDWICHES.— Put  cold  boiled  sweet- 
breads through  a  potato  ricer,  moisten  with  J^  as  much  whipped 
cream,  season  with  salt,  cayenne  and  lemon  juice.  Spread  on  thin 
slices  of  buttered  bread  aind  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  or  use  chopped, 
cooked  sweetbreads,  mixed  to  paste  with  melted  butter,  and  sea- 
soned with  pepper  and  salt.  Minced  ham  may  be  added.  Also 
chopped  cooked  sweetbreads,  moistened  with  cream,  seasoned  with 
salt,  cayenne  and  lemon  juice,  or  chopped  sweetbreads  mixed  with 
mayonnaise.  Also  chopped  sweetbreads  mixed  with  chopped  cu- 
cumbers or  celery  and  mixed  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  Ethan  Earle, 
Mayfair,  111. 

TARTARE  SANDWICHES.— 1  teaspon  each  of  chives,  cap- 
ers, gherkins,  olives,  and  tarragon  leaves,  chopped  fine.  1  tea- 
spoon each  of  tarragon  vinegar,  French  mustard  and  paprika. — 
Mrs.  C.  E.  Rawlins,  Glen  View,  111. 

TOMATO  SANDWICHES.— Pulp  the  raw  tomato  through 
a  hair  sieve  to  remove  the  seeds  and  skin,  and  then  add  a  table- 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         143 

spoon  of  thick  mayonnaise  to  a  teacup  of  pulp.  Spread  on  1  side 
of  sandwich  and  press  firmly  together. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  S.  5th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Thin  slices  of  tomato  dipped  in  French 
dressing.  Or  on  rounds  of  bread  spread  with  mayonnaise.  Sliced 
tomato  and  shredded  lettuce,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon 
juice. — Mrs.  Chas.  Ellis,  Winnetka,  111. 

TRAVELERS'  SANDWICHES.— Chop  sardines,  ham,  and  a 
few  pickles  finely  together,  season  with  mustard,  pepper,  catsup, 
Worcestershire  sauce,  salt,  vinegar,  etc.,  to  taste;  spread  between 
nicely  buttered  bread. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

TURKEY  SANDWICHES — Thin  slices  of  turkey  and  bacon 
on  toast,  spread  with  mayonnaise. — ^Mrs.  Chas.  Egglcston,  Wheel- 
ing. 111. 

TURTLE  SANDWICHES  (For  Hallowe'en  and  Children's 
Parties). — Cut  thin  slices  of  brown  and  white  bread,  trim  off  the 
crust  and  shape  into  35^-inch  squares.  Butter  lightly  and  spread 
between  a  desired  filling.  Slice  lengthwise  into  halves  some  small 
cucumber  pickles,  place  1  in  each  corner  of  the  sandwich  for  the 
feet  of  the  turtle,  a  tiny  one  for  the  tail.  Run  a  toothpick  through 
a  narrow,  short  piece  of  bread,  and  stick  it  in  the  opposite  end  of 
the  sandwich  frotm  the  tail.  On  the  end  of  the  toothpick  put  a 
thin  piece  of  a  small  carrot,  cut  lengthwise.  The  result  is  a  turtle. 
—Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

VEAL  SANDWICHES.— Chopped  veal,  apples,  celery  and  nuts 
mixed  with  mayonnaise.  Chopped  veal  and  hard-boiled  eggs,  sea- 
soned with  mustard.  Chopped  veal  and  tongue,  seasoned  with 
horseradish  and  mixed  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  Ethan  Earle,  May- 
fair,  111. 

VEGETABLE  SANDWICHES.— Cut  thin  slices  of  bread 
with  a  small,  round  biscuit  cutter;  spread  with  softened  butter,  cut 
out  the  leaves  of  lettuce  the  same  size,  lay  1  on  a  slice  of  bread, 
spread  on  mayonnaise,  then  a  sprinkling  of  minced  parsley,  a  little 
salt,  and  1  shake  of  white  pepper;  lay  on  another  slice  of  bread, 
and  press  gently  together.  Heap  them  on  a  large  plate  and  deco- 
rate with  sprays  of  curled  parsley. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka, 
III. 


144  BREAD 

VEGETABLE  SANDWICH  ROLLS.-^Chop  2  cold  boiled 
potatoes  and  mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  well-cooked  or  canned 
peas;  do  not  mash  the  peas;  add  1  or  2  boiled  or  pickled  beets, 
chopped,  and  sufficient  cream  salad  dressing  to  moisten  the  vegeta- 
bles. Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  butter  rolls  and  scoop  out  the 
crumbs.  Be  careful  not  to  break  the  crust  shell.  Fill  the  roll 
nearly  full  with  the  vegetable  mixture.  On  top  of  this  put  a  table- 
spoon of  shredded  lettuce,  finely  chopped  celery,  or  scnme  small, 
crisp  leaves  of  chickory,  replace  the  top,  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  Clan- 
cey,  Kenilworth,  111. 

WATERCRESS  SANDWICHES.— Season  watercress  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  drops  of  vinegar,  and  chop  coarsely.  Mix 
with  creamy  cottage  cheese  and  spread  on  thinly  sliced  bread. 
Thoroughly  wash  the  watercress  and  thoroughly  dry  it  in  a  cloth; 
cut  it  into  small  pieces,  removing  the  stalks,  and  mix  with  finely 
chopped,  hard-boiled  eggs,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Spread 
between  thin,  buttered  slices  of  bread,  sprinkling  the  cress  and 
eggs  very  lightly  with  the  lemon  juice.  Press  together  hard  and 
shape.  Remove  the  crust;  or  use  chopped  watercress  and  cottage 
cheese,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar;  also  use  chopped 
watercress,  seasoned  with  salt  and  mixed  with  mayonnaise. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

WELSH  RAREBIT  SANDWICHES.— Make  a  paste  of  mild 
cheese,  2  oz,  of  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  mustard,  diluted  with  good 
cider  vinegar.  Spread  the  mixture  between  thin  slices  of  bread. — 
Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

WINDSOR  SANDWICHES.— Butter  and  cut  thin  slices  of 
bread;  cut  thin  slices  of  pecan  sausage,  have  ready  some  dry,  crisp 
lettuce  leaves  and  a  Yt.  pt.  of  mayonnaise.  Put  a  slice  of  nut  sau- 
sage on  a  slice  of  buttered  bread;  lay  on  a  lettuce  leaf,  then  a  tea- 
spoon of  mayonnaise,  another  slice  of  buttered  bread,  butter  side 
up;  on  this  put  another  leaf  of  lettuce,  a  teaspoon  of  mayonnaise 
and  another  slice  of  bread.  Press  together,  trim  off  the  crust,  and 
cut  each  sandwich  into  3  strips.  These  are  usually  tied  with  baby- 
ribbon. — Mrs.  E,  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         145 

TOAST 

Toast  has  become  such  an  important  part  of  the  American 
breakfast,  luncheon,  and  invalid  diet  that  greater  space  has  been 
devoted  to  this  section  than  in  the  average  cook  book.  Our  pur- 
pose is  to  offer  a  variation  from  the  prover^bial  toast  and  coffee 
which  constitutes  the  breakfast  of  87  per  cent  of  the  American 
homes.  THE  AUTHOR. 


ANCHOVY  TOAST.— Spread  anchovies  over  slices  of  but- 
tered toast.  Keep  hot.  In  a  chafing  dish  put  a  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter mixed  with  a  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard,  2  tablespoons  of  tomato 
sauce  and  a  teaspoon  of  mushroom  sauce.  When  thoroughly- 
mixed  lay  in  this  sauce,  add  slices  of  4  hard-boiled  eggs,  with  a 
little  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  strewn  over  them.  When  heated, 
pour  over  the  anchovy  toast;  be  careful  not  to  break  the  eggs. 
There  will  be  but  little  sauce. — 'Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Spread  sliced  toast  with  anchovy,  butter 
while  hot.  Set  a  moment  in  the  oven,  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs. 
C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

APPLE  TOAST. — Peel,  core,  quarter,  and  cut  in  slices  5^  doz. 
apples;  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  a  saucepan,  add 
the  apples,  and  put  over  them  5  talblespoons  of  powdered  sugar 
and  2  of  water.  Stew  quickly.  Fry  slices  of  bread  in  a  little  but- 
ter, place  on  a  dish,  cover  with  a  little  sugar  and  the  apples.  Serve 
hot. — Mrs.  €.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

ARME  RITTER — ^Cut  'half  of  a  loaf  of  2-day-old  bread  into 
slices  54  i"ch  thick,  dip  each  in  cold  milk.  Lay  them  on  top  of  one 
another,  pour  a  little  milk  over  the  whole  and  let  them  lie  10  min- 
utes. Beat  up  2  eggs  with  2  tablespoons  of  milk,  dip  each  slice 
into  the  egg  and  fry  in  half  lard  and  butter. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

BANANA  TOAST.— Peel  and  press  some  good  bananas 
through  a  colander  with  a  potato  masher;  or  a  vegetable  press  may 
be  used.  Moisten  the  slices  of  toast  with  hot  cream,  and  serve 
with  a  large  spoonful  of  banana  pulp  on  each  slice.  Fresh  peaches 
may  be  used  instead  of  bananas. — ^Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave., 
Mayweed,  111.  .  :  ^l  f 


146  BREAD 

BEEF  MARROW  ON  TOAST.— Put  some  pieces  of  marrow 
in  a  saucepan  of  well-salted  boiling  water  and  let  them  remain  for 
1  minute.  Drain  off  the  water;  take  out  the  marrow  and  spread  it 
on  toasted  bread,  place  in  the  oven  and  cook  for  6  minutes.  Sprin- 
kle with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka.  III.  , 

BEEF  TONGUE  TOAST.— Grate  a  boiled  tongue,  mix  pars- 
ley, salt  and  pepper  with  it,  and  make  a  paste  by  adding  the  yolks 
of  eggs.  Keep  it  hot,  but  not  boiling;  sprinkle  thinly  on  toast, 
grate  cracker  crumbs  over  and  set  it  in  the  oven  till  ready. — Mrs. 
C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

BERRY  TOAST.— Canned  strawberries,  blueberries  and 
blackberries  may  be  used  for  the  following:  Turn  a  can  of  berries 
into  a  colander  over  an  earthern  dish,  to  separate  the  juice  from 
berries.  Put  juice  in  porcelain  kettle,  heat  to  boiling,  thicken  to  a 
"cream  with  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  water,  a  tablespoon  of 
flour  to  a  pt.  of  juice.  Add  the  berries  and  boil  up  just  enough  to 
cook  flour  and  heat  the  berries;  serve  hot.  Moisten  toast  with  hot 
cream,  or  a  little  heated  juice.  The  fruit  may  be  heated  and  poured 
over  dry  toast  without  thickening,  or  it  may  be  rubbed  through  a 
colander,  as  for  iapricot  toast.  Suitable  for  an  invalid. — Mrs.  Conk- 
lin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Take  fresh  berries  and  mash  well.  Add 
sugar  to  sweeten,  and  serve  as  a  dressing  on  toast,  moistened  with 
hot  liquid.  Dainty  for  an  invalid. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave., 
Ma3rwood,  111. 

BRAINS  ON  TOAST.— Scald  and  blanch  the  brains,  beat 
smooth,  add  3  eggs,  and  beat  hard.  Have  ready  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  in  a  frying-pan,  hissing  hot;  turn  in  the  mixture  and  stir 
steadily  for  3  minutes.  Serve  upon  rounds  of  toast.  Appetizing 
for  an  invalid. — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

CAVIAR  ON  TOAST.— Put  into  a  saucepan  2  tablespoons  of 
caviar  and  1  of  cream;  heat  2  minutes,  stirring  carefully.  Pour 
this  mixture  over  thin  slices  of  white  bread.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  C. 
J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         147 

CODFISH  ON  TOAST — Slice  an  onion  and  fry  in  an  oz.  of 

butter.  Add  small  quantity  of  fresh  fish  with  water  to  cover.  Add 
3  sliced  tomatoes,  and  a  little  cayenne,  cook  5/$  to  ^  of  an  hr. 
Pour  it  over  buttered  toast. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

CREAM  TOAST  MADE  OF  BROWN  BREAD.— Toast  5^ 
doz.  or  more  slices  of  entire  wheat  or  graham  bread.  Make  a 
cream  sauce  of  1  pt.  of  cream  and  milk,  mixed,  a  lump  of  butter  and 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Put  into  a  granite  pan  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Stir  a 
little  flour,  first  stirred  to  a  cream,  with  a  little  cold  milk,  when  it 
boils  drop  in  the  toast,  1  piece  at  a  time.  Let  simmer  a  couple  of 
minutes,  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

CREAM  TOAST.— Use  good  graham  or  whole  wheat  toast. 
Have  a  pt.  of  thin,  sweet  cream  scalding  hot,  salt  a  little  and  moist- 
en toast,  pack  in  a  hot  dish,  cover  tightly  and  serve.  Tasty  for 
an  invalid. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CREAM  TOAST  WITH  POACHED  EGG.— Prepare  cream 
toast  as  previously  directed,  and  serve  hot  with  a  well-poached 
egg  on  each  slice.  Suitable  for  an  invalid. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N. 
5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

DEVILED  TOAST.— Toast  sliced  whole  wheat  or  brown 
bread  1  day  or  so  old.  To  every  tablespoon  of  butter  add  ^  tea- 
spoon each  of  dry  mustard  and  paprika,  and  8  drops  of  onion 
juice.  Spread  over  the  toast,  sprinkle  with  a  little  grated  cheese, 
and  set  in  a  hot  oven  for  3  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

DIPPED  TOAST.— Beat  2  eggs  lightly,  add  2  tablespoons  of 
cream,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  a  little  pepper  and  salt. 
Slice  bread  thin  and  toast  slightly.  When  this  is  done  place  all 
in  a  good  sized  dripping  pan,  and  pour  over  the  eggs,  etc.  Place 
on  the  top  of  stove  to  rebrown  slightly,  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  Car- 
son, 205  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

EGG  TOAST.— Make  a  batter  with  2  eggs,  J^  cup  milk,  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Cut  stale  bread  into  thin  slices, 
dip  them  into  the  batter  and  fry  them  brown  in  butter.  This  toast 
may  be  served  with  eggs  prepared  in  any  form. — Mabel  Sturtevant, 
105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


148  BREAD 

FRENCH  TOASl*.— Beat  2  eggs,  salt,  a  cup  of  milk,  and 
then  dip  thin  slices  of  bread  into  this,  plunge  into  hot  butter,  and 
fry. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRUIT  TOAST.— Put  a  pt.  of  stemmed  cherries  into  a  kettle 
with  Yz  lb.  of  sugar  and  very  little  water.  Stew  the  fruit  tender 
and  cover  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast  with  the  fruit  and  syrup, 
and  set  away  on  the  ice  until  cold. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka, 
111. 

GERMAN  TOAST.— Beat  1  t^^  well,  mix  with  1  cup  milk; 
put  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  dip  bread  in  mixture,  then  fry  in  butter 
a  light  brown;  serve  warm. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cut  slices  of  stale  toast,  dip  in  enough  milk 
to  soften,  then  dip  in  beaten  t.^^',  put  in  a  pan  with  sufficient  but- 
ter to  brown.     Serve. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

GRAPE  TOAST. — Take  grapes  and  squeeze  each,  putting  pulp 
and  skin  together  in  saucepan,  place  on  stove,  add  2  tablespoons 
of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  fruit,  and  scald.  Cut  toast  into  thin  slices 
and  butter;  strain  the  hot  grapes  over  the  buttered  toast  and  serve. 
— Mrs.  C.  Carson,  205  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

HAM  TOAST. — Toast  and  butter  slices  of  bread,  lay  chopped 
boiled  ham  on,  place  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  Beat  up  6 
eggs  with  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  the  eggs  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  lump  of  butter  and  stir  till  thick,  but  do  not  boil.  Put  the 
ham  on  the  toast  on  a  platter,  pour  the  eggs  over  and  serve. — 
Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

KIDNEY  TOAST.— Place  in  a  pan  chopped  parsley,  a  little 
shallot  and  minced  kidneys.  Be  sure  to  take  off  the  outer  skin  and 
sinews  of  the  kidneys  before  mincing  them.  Fry  all  in  butter. 
Add  a  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  sprinkle  in  a  teaspoon 
of  flour  and  boil  for  3  minutes;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Spread 
thin  slices  of  buttered  toast  with  this  mixture,  cover  with  bread 
crumbs  and  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Put  into  a  quick  oven 
for  10  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

LEMON  TOAST.— Dip  slices  of  bread  into  a  cup  of  milk 
which  has  been  beaten  up  with  the  yolk  of  2  eggs.    Fry  a  light 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  149 

brown.  Take  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth,  add  %  cup 
of  sugar,  the  juice  of  ^  of  a  lemon  and  ^  cup  of  boiling  water. 
Pour  over  the  toast  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,^  Winnetka,  111. 

MEAT  TOAST. — Min-ce  finely  the  remains  of  a  cold  roast, 
and  mix  with  it  1  pt.,  including  the  gravy,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1 
tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  minced  onion.  Stir  the  mixture 
over  a  slow  fire  until  it  is  thick.  When  cold  spread  it  on  pieces 
of  toast,  brush  it  over  with  a  beaten  ^gg.  Strew  bread  crumbs  on 
the  top  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice 
over  the  toast. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

MILK  TOAST.— Put  a  qt.  of  milk  over  the  fire  and  when  it 
is  pretty  hot,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  mix  in  a  little  5alt  in  a 
cup  of  milk,  add  a  piece  of  butter,  stir  constantly,  until  it  boils. 
Toast  6  or  8  slices  of  bread.  Dip  a  slice  of  toast  in  the  boiling 
imilk,  after  lifting  it  to  the  back  of  the  stove.  Lay  the  toast  in  a 
dish  and  pour  the  contents  of  the  saucepan  over  it;  keep  it  cov- 
ered.    Serve. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

OYSTER  TOAST.— Toast  a  slice  of  bread  rather  brown.  Cut 
off  the  crust  and  butter  lightly.  Have  the  spider  hot,  and  into  it 
drop,  1  at  a  time,  6  or  more  fresh  oysters.  Turn  and  stir  a  little 
as  the  gravy  collects;  add  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  about  2  or  3 
minutes.  Pour  over  the  toast  and  serve  immediately.  Very  ap- 
petizing for  an  invalid. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

PEACH  TOAST.— Stew  fresh  peaches  in  small  quantity  of 
water,  when  tender  rub  through  a  colander,  and  if  quite  juicy  set 
on  back  of  stove  and  cook  slowly  until  of  the  consistency  of  mar- 
malade. Add  sugar  and  serve  the  same  as  prunes,  on  toast  moist- 
ened with  hot  liquid.  Canned  peaches  may  be  drained  from  their 
juice  and  prepared  in  same  manner.  Dried  or  evaporated  peaches 
may  also  be  used.  In  making  dried  peach  dressing  the  flavor 
would  be  more  delicate  if  ^  dried  apples  were  used.  Nice  for 
invalids. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Ma>^wood,  111. 

PICKED-UP  FISH  ON  TOAST.— Pick  to  shreds  cold  left- 
over fish.  Heat  in  a  skillet  a  little  milk  or  cream,  sufiicient  to  cover 
fish,  and  add  a  dash  of  salt,  white  pepper,  and  a  small  piece  of 
butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  add  the  fish,  and  serve  on  hot, 


ISO  BREAD 

buttered  whole  wheat  toast. — Mrs.  C.  Carson,  20S  S.  Sth  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

SALMON  TOAST.— ^Cut  slices  of  bread,  trim  off  the  crusts, 
and  toast.  Butter  and  lay  on  each  piece  a  thin  slice  of  smoked 
salmon.  Sprinkle  with  pepper,  lay  over  a  sheet  of  buttered  paper, 
and  place  in  hot  oven  for  5  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka,  III. 

SAUSAGE  TOAST.— Fry  6  links  of  sausage;  remove  the 
skins,  mix  with  a  grating  of  cheese,  and  a  tablespoon  of  mixed 
mustard;  spread  the  mixture  on  hot  buttered  toast. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

SHAD-ROE  TOAST.— Throw  the  roe  into  boiling  water,  add 
a  slice  of  onion  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt;  simmer  gently  for  20  min- 
utes, and  drain.  With  a  fork  remove  the  membrane.  Spread  the 
roe  on  toasted  bread;  over  the  whole  sprinkle  the  yolks  of  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  crumbled  fine.  Lay  over  the  whites,  cut  in  rings. 
Serve  hot. — ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

TOAST. — Take  eggs  out  of  shell,  keeping  y^lk  whole.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  lay  the  beaten  whites  around  on  squares 
of  toasts  in  a  ring,  drop  the  yolks  in  center  of  white  ring,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  put  in  hot  oven  a  few  minutes.  Take  from  the  stove, 
pour  ♦over  a  little  melted  butter. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

TOAST  A  LA  DUCHESSE.— Beat  1  tgg,  a  cup  of  milk  and 

a  little  salt  and  sugar  together.  Soak  stale  bread  into  this  mix- 
ture, and  put  on  a  grid-iron  or  toaster.  Butter  the  slices,  and  serve 
with  jelly. — Mrs.  C,  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

TOAST  AU  GRATIN.— Toast  circular  pieces  of  bread,  pour- 
ing a  little  hot  water  over  to  keep  them  soft.  Butter  and  grate 
over  some  English  dairy  cheese.  Put  in  the  oven  to  brown,  and 
serve  very  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

TOAST  FOR  GAME.— Toast  slices  of  bread  ^  of  an  inch 
thick,  till  browned  on  both  sides.  Cut  off  the  crust,  hold  the  bread 
over  a  bowl  of  boiling  water  for  a  minute  to  imbibe  the  steam,  but- 
ter well.  Soak  them  in  the  dripping  in  a  pan  under  the  birds,  and 
when  these  are  ready,  serve  them  upon  it. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  ISl 

TOMATO  TOAST.— Moisten  slices  of  toast  and  serve  with  a 
dressing  prepared  by  heating  a  pt.  of  strained,  stewed  tomatoes  to 
boiling,  and  thickened  with  a  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  or  flour, 
rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water.  Season  with  salt  and  Yz  cup 
hot  cream.  Cream  may  be  omitted.  Dainty  for  an  invalid. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Stew  1  pt.  of  ripe  tomatoes,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  a  little  butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Scald  Yz 
cup  of  creaim,  and  add.  Pour  the  cream  and  tomatoes  over  toasted 
bread. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Pare  and  arrange  6  tomatoes  on  a  buttered 
pan,  sprinkle  over  some  fine  bread  crumbs,  J^  teaspoon  of  salt, 
pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  dotted  on  top,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  20  minutes.  Serve  on  hot  buttered  toast.  Pour  the  gravy  in 
the  dish  over  all. — ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

TOAST  WITH  SARDINES.— Scrape  and  bone  sardines,  lay 
them  on  a  plate;  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper.  Stand  them  in  the  stove  until  thoroughly  hot.  Lay  the 
sardines  on  slices  of  toast. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

TONGUE  TOAST.— Mince  fine  cold,  boiled  tongue,  mix  it 
with  cream;  to  every  y^  pt.  of  the  mixture  allow  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs;  place  over  the  fire  and  let  it  simmer  a  minute  or 
two.  Pour  the  mixture  over  buttered  toast  on  a  hot  dish.  Serve 
hot. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

ZWIEBACK. — Use  good,  whole  wheat  or  graham  fermented 
bread,  cut  in  uniform  slices,  not  more  than  a  J^  inch  thick,  divide 
each  slice  in  halves,  place  on  perforated  tins  and  bake  or  toast  in 
la  slow  oven  for  a  J^^hr.  or  longer,  until  evenly  browned. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


SOUPS 


CROUTONS.— Cut  stale  bread  into  dice  less  than  J^  an  inch 
square;  fry  in  hot  dripping  or  butter  to  a  delicate  brown;  take  up 
with  a  split  spoon  and  shake  free  of  fat  in  a  colander. — Mrs.  Frank 
Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Butter  bread  on  the  loaf;  cut  in  slices  ^  an 
inch  thick,  cut  off  crusts,  cut  in  strips  and  brown  in  the  oven. 
Serve  with  soup. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen  View,  111. 

CHEESE  CROUTONS.— Pass  2  oz.  of  flour,  J4  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder,  and  %  teaspoon  of  salt  through  a  sieve.  Rub  in  ^ 
oz.  of  butter  and  j>^  oz.  of  grated  cheese.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  water, 
gradually,  and  mix  until  smooth.  Roll  out  on  a  floured  board  to 
about  %  inch  in  thickness.  Cut  into  fancy  shapes,  place  on  a  but- 
tered tin,  and  bake  for  10  or  15  minutes. — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  May- 
fair,  111. 

TOASTED  BREAD  CRUSTS  FOR  SOUP.— Toast  bread 
crusts  and  cut  into  very  small  dice.  Untoasted  bread  swells,  and  is 
likely  to  spoil  the  appearance  of  the  soup. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelly,  Win- 
netka.  111. 

EGG  BALLS,  OR  QUENELLES,  FOR  SOUPS Mash  to- 
gether 2  hard-boiled  eggs,  J^  the  quantity  of  hot,  boiled  potatoes, 
1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  cayenne,  pepper,  salt,  and  the  yolk  of 
1  raw  egg.  Make  up  into  balls  the  size  of  cherries,  with  flour  on 
the  hands.  Drop  them  a  minute  or  two  in  S  frying-pan  of  boiling 
water;  take  up  on  a  skimmer  and  drop  them  into  the  soup. — Mrs. 
Allan  George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

EGG  BALLS  FOR  SOUPS.— Rub  the  yolks  of  4  hard-boiled 
eggs  with  a  little  melted  butter,  to  a  paste.  Add  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  2  raw,  beater,  eggs,  with  flour  enough  to  make  them  hold  to- 
gether. Make  into  balls,  put  in  soup,  and  let  boil  1  minute. — Mrs. 
E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

152 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  153 

MEAT  BALLS  FOR  VEGETABLE  SOUP.— Chop  fine  1  cup 
pounded  round  steak,  add  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  V?.  cup  cream,  salt, 
pepper,  and  nutmeg  for  flavoring.  Mix  well,  make  into  balls,  put 
into  the  soup  from  which  vegetables  have  been  strained.  They  will 
rise  to  the  top  when  done. — Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  Til. 

DUMPLINGS. — Into  a    well-beaten    egg   add    enough    rolled 

cracker   crumbs   to   make  a   thick  paste.     Drop    from   spoon    into 

soup.     Cook    2  minutes.  Serve   at   once. — Mrs.    Klug   25    N.   Sth 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

NOODLES  FOR  SOUP.— Melt  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  an 
e^gg\  stir  thick  with  flour,  and  w-hen  cool  stir  in  1  beaten  egg,  then 
thicken  with  flour  as  stiff  as  possiljle.  Roll  out  very  thin,  and  cut 
fine.  These  noodles  do  not  need  to  dry.  They  should  be  boiled 
in  the  soup  about  20  to  25  minutes, — Mabel  Slurfevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111, 

VARIATION  I.— 4  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  a  little  salt,  mix  all 
together  and  make  very  stiff  with  flour.  If  4  eggs  does  not  wet 
the  flour  enough,  add  a  little  milk  (sweet)  or  water,  to  mix  like 
pie  dough,  only  very  stiff;  roll  in  a  sheet  or  two,  lay  1  or  2  hrs.: 
cut  in  long  strips  2  inches  wide,  put  2  or  3  on  top  of  each  ether, 
and  use  a  very  sharp  knife  to  cut  in  thin  strips  about  Y'i  inch  or 
less  wide;  have  chicken  broth  boiling  hot,  drop  by  handfuls  in 
kettle  and  stir  with  other  hand;  let  it  boil  ^  hr.,  add  a  little  pep- 
per and  1  tablespoon  butter.  If  desired,  less  eggs  and  more  milk 
or  water  will  do. — Mrs.  E.  C,  Emmory,  Palatine,  111. 

SHOE  STRING  NOODLES.— To  2  well-beaten  eggs,  add  1 
cup  sweet  milk,  a  generous  pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  dough,  sifted  with  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Roll 
thin,  like  pie  crust,  and  cut  in  strips  like  shoe  strings.  These  are 
fine  cooked  in  beef  or  chicken  broth. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

GERMAN  NOODLES.— Beat  up  1  egg  with  1  tablespoon  wa- 
ter, add  some  salt,  and  then  work  in  all  the  flour  possible.  Turn 
ojut  on  floured  board,  roll  very  thin:  cut  into  pieces  and  roll  each 
piece  as  thin  as  a  piece  of  paper.  Let  these  piece?  drv,  but  not 
long   enough   to   become   brittle.     After   they   have    dried   lay   the 


154  SOUP 

pieces  1  on  top  of  the  other,  roll  up,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut 
very  thin  slices  from  this  roll.  Toss  the  roil  slightly  to  separate 
them,  let  them  dry  and  store  in  well  covered  tins  or  jars.— Mrs. 
Alfred  N.  Greenway,  Wheeling,  111. 

SOUP  STOCK — Stock  for  soups  may  be  made  by  saving  all 
the  bones  and  tough  pieces  from  roasts  and  broiling  meats.  Put 
them  in  a  kettle,  allowing  about  3  pts.  of  water  to  2  lbs.  of  meat 
and  bones.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  skim,  and  set  back  to  sim- 
mer for  5  or  6  hrs.  Great  care  should  be  taken  that  every  particle 
of  meat  and  bones  used  should  be  perfectly  sweet.  When  done, 
put  in  a  stone  jar,  kept  for  the  purpose,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. — 
Mrs.  F.  C.  Winters,  Winnetka,  111. 

A  GOOD  SOUP  STOCK.—!  lb.  of  lean  beef,  1  qt.  cold  water, 
1  teaspoon  pepper  corns,  2  cloves,  2  allspice  berries,  1  sprig  parsley, 
1  teaspoon  mixed  herbs,  1  tablespoon  each  kind  chopped  vegeta- 
bles. The  meat  should  be  cut  in  small  pieces  and  soaked  in  cold 
water  for  J^  an  hr.,  heat  slowly,  and  simmer  3  hrs.,  add  vegetables 
and  seasoning,  simmer  1  hr.  longer,  then  strain.  Remove  the  fat 
next  day. — ^Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Allow  1  qt.  of  cold  water  to  a  lb.  of  meat. 
Let  it  stand  awhile  before  putting  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove. 
Cover  and  simmer  slowly.  Five  hrs.  are  required  for  boiling  a 
good  sized  bone.  When  done,  pour  into  an  earthen  vessel,  and 
skim  when  cold.  Salt  the  stock  when  Yi  done.  Vegetables  can 
be  added  to  the  stock  in  the  proportion  of  1  pt.  cut  vegetables  to 
every  gallon. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— "Stock"  is  made  from  cheap,  tough  cuts; 
the  meat  should  be  cut  in  small  pieces,  soaked  J^  an  hr.  in  cold 
water  to  draw  out  the  juice.  Bone  is  added  for  the  sake  of  the 
gelatine  it  contains,  and  to  give  body  to  the  soup.  A  good  por- 
tion is  1  lb.  each  of  meat  and  bone  to  Ij^  qts.  of  water.  Use  a 
kettle  with  a  very  tight  cover  and  simmer  slowly  for  a  number  of 
hrs.  Stock  is  best  when  made  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  used. — 
Mrs.  Almond  Case,  Palatine,  111. 

STOCK  FROM  BONES.— Save  all  bones  left  from  roasts, 
steaks,  and  the  carcasses  of  poultry;  also  the  liquid  in  which  they 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  155 

have  been  boiled.  Crack  the  bones,  place  in  a  soup  kettle,  cover 
with  cold  water  and  let  simmer  gently  for  4  hrs.  When  they  first 
boil,  skim.  At  the  end  of  the  3rd  hr.,  add  the  flavoring,  the  same 
as  in  plain  stock.  The  delicate  flavor  of  each  vegetable  depends 
upon  the  volatile  material  they  contain.  This  is  easily  dissipated 
if  the  stock  is  boiled  hard  or  long  after  they  are  added;  therefore, 
add  the  flavoring  an  hr.  before  the  stock  is  strained.  Stock  made 
from  the  left-over  meats  or  bones  is  not  as  clear  as  that  made  from 
fresh  meats.  When  wanted  perfectly  clear,  it  must  be  clarified. 
To  clarify  remove  the  fat  from  the  surface;  turn  the  stock  carefully 
into  the  soup  kettle,,  allowing  the  sediment  to  remain  in  the  bottom 
of  the  bowl.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  with  the  washed  shells  and 
Yi  cup  of  cold  water.  Add  this  to  the  cold  soup;  mix  carefully; 
bring  to  boiling  point,  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice.  Boil 
hard  for  5  minutes.  Let  stand  a  moment  to  settle,  strain  carefully 
through  2  or  3  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth,  wrung  from  cold  water. 
The  albumen  in  the  white  of  ^z%  acts  mechanically,  entangling  the 
floating  particles  in  a  sort  of  fine  membrane,  which  is  formed  by 
the  boiling,  and  leaves  the  soup  perfectly  clear.  Stock  imay  be 
kept  in  warm  weather,  under  favorable  circumstances,  for  4  or  5 
days;  in  winter,  for  10  or  12  days.  The  first  thing  necessary  to 
the  preservation  of  stock  is  the  removal  of  the  fat.  Second,  it  must 
be  cooled  quickly  after  it  is  strained.  In  summer,  it  will  keep 
much  longer  if  the  vegetable  flavorings  are  omitted;  add  salt  and 
pepper  only. — Mrs.  Chris.  Worthington,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

WHITE  STOCK.— White  stock  is  used  in  preparation  of 
white  soups,  and  is  made  by  putting  6  lbs.  of  a  knuckle  of  veal  or 
lean  beef  and  veal  gravy,  ^  lb.  of  bacon  or  ham,  cut  up,  with  4 
onions  and  4  heads  of  celery,  cut  up  fine.  Stew  gently  until  nearly 
done,  when  salt  should  be  added.  Cook  1  hr.  longer;  strain,  and 
set  to  cool.  When  cold  remove  fat,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. — Mrs. 
E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,-  111 

LEFT-OVER  STOCK.— Have  a  crock  in  your  refrigerator 
expressly  for  this.  Collect  for  it  the  bones  of  cooked  meats  from 
which  the  meat  has  been  carved;  the  carcasses  of  poultry,  bits  of 
gristly  roasts  and  steaks,  cold  vegetables,  or  baked  apple.  Twice 
a  week,  "put  all  bones,  cracking  well  into  the  stock-pot;  cover 
deep  with  cold  water,  and  cook  slowly  until  the  liquid  is  reduced 


156  SOUP 

to  Yi  the  original  quantity.  Season  to  taste,  and  strain,  rubbing 
all  that  will  pass  through  the  colander.  By  addition  of  barley, 
rice,  tomatoes,  or,  in  fact,  almost  any  vegetable  or  cereal,  you  may 
make  excellent  broths  from  this  coimpound  of  "unconsidered  tri- 
fles."—Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

POSSIBILITIES  OF  A  SOUP  BONE.— Wash  a  shankbone, 
place  in  the  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  slowly  boil  until 
almost  tender,  then  salt  to  taste,  and  use  the  best  part  of  the  meat 
for  dinner.  Take  the  meat  th^t  is  left  over,  chop  fine,  put  in  a 
dish,  pour  enough  hot  broth  over  to  cover,  press  with  a  heavy 
weight;  when  cold,  turn  out  and  slice  for  dinner.     No.  3. 

NOODLE  DINNER.— Break  3  eggs,  add  3  tablespoons  milk, 
pinch  of  salt,  mix  until  light,  add  flour  to  make  stifT;  roll  very  thin, 
flour  well,  cut  in  little  strips  and  drop  into  boiling  broth.  If  de- 
sired, part  of  the  noodles  can  be  kept  for  a  time  by  wrapping  in 
clean  paper  sack.  If  any  'broth  and  potatoes  are  left  over  they  can 
■be  used  for  supper  by  adding  2- sliced  onions,  a  little  water,  salt 
and  pepper;  put  all  in  kettle  and  cook  until  tender,  and  serve. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago.  111. 

SOUP  FROM  LEFT-OVERS.- We  have  a  little  gravy  from 
yesterday  and  a  little  onion;  there  was  a  deviled  potato  left  and  1 
stalk  of  celery;  purchase  a  very  small  piece  of  soup  meat,  just  Yi  a 
lb.,  put  it  on  with  6  cups  cold  water,  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  cut 
carrot,  1  tablespoon  of  cut  onion;  cut  the  celery  and  let  it  boil  2 
hrs.  Take  out  the  meat,  cut  it  up  into  small  pieces,  put  back  into 
the  stock,  add  the  gravy,  the  left-over  onion,  and  the  potato,  also  1 
tablespoon  of  salt,  a  little  white  pepper  and  1  tablespoon  of 
chopped  parsley.  Many  times  you  can  use  all  the  left-over  vegeta- 
bles by  putting  them  into  the  double  boiler  with  4  cups  of  milk, 
boiled  and  strained;  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed 
with  1  tablesipoon  of  butter;  add  and  boH  2  minutes.  Serve  with 
croutons. — Mrs,  Almond  Case,  Palatine,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Bones  and  trimmings  from  a  6-lb.  roast  of 
beef,  2  cold  mutton-chops,  the  flank  end  of  a  sirloin  steak,  un- 
cooked, 4  qts  cold  water,  1  tablespoon  salt,  4  cloves,  4  peppercorns, 
1  cold  fried  ^^^,  2  baked  apples,  1  cup  cold  boiled  onions,  2  stalks 
celery,  1  tablespoon  parsley.     Cut  up  the  meat  and  bones,  and  put 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         157 

them  in  the  kettle  with  the  cold  water.  Add  all  the  other  ingredi- 
ents, and  simmer  till  the  bones  are  clean,  the  meat  is  in  rags,  and 
the  water  reduced  J^.  Strain,  and  the  next  morning  remove  the 
fat;  when  ready  to  serve,  heat  the  stock  to  the  boilimg  point;  warm 
with  it  1  cup  of  cold  macaroni  or  tomatoes  left  from  yesterday's  din- 
ner. Add  more  salt,  if  needed,  and  flavor  with  kitchen  Bouquet. — 
Mrs.  Frank  Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

CREAM  OF  ARTICHOKE  SOUP.— Scrape  and  slice  enough 
Jerusalem  artichokes  to  make  2  cups,  and  cover  with  cold  water. 
Let  them  stand  for  15  or  20  Tninute5=.  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  2  qts.  of  cold  water  or  milk,  cr  1  qt.  of  each,  and  let  th&m 
cook  for  an  hr.,  or  until  thoroughly  soft.  Now  rub  them  through 
a  sieve  with  2  cups  of  the  stock  in  which  they  cooked,  and  return 
to  the  fire.  When  boiling  add  1  tal^lespoon  of  butter  and  1  of 
flour,  rubbed  together,  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  saltspoon  of 
pepper,  and  cook  about  10  minutes  before  adding  2  cups  of  hot 
milk,  or  1  cup  of  milk  and  1  cup  of  cream.  Stir  well  and  let  boil 
up  once  before  serving.  A  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley  or  chives 
improves  the  appearance  and  thr  taste.  Before  straining  add  1 
handful  of  nasturtium  leaves  and  iblossoms,  or  add  1  tablespoon  of 
them  chopped  before  serving. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennett.  Bartlett,  111. 

CONDO  CRUSTS  FOR  SOUPS.-^Cut  the  bread  in  dice 
shapes,  of  even  size,  and  toast  it  in  a  pan  in  the  oven.  When 
brown,  pour  over  melted  butter  and  return  to  the  oven  for  a  <?hort 
time.  Serve  from  6  to  8  to  each  plate  of  soup. — Eloise  Jennings, 
Winnetka,  III. 

ALMOND  SOUP. — It  calls  for  1  qt.  of  nicely  seasoned  veal 
or  chicken  stock.  Blanclt  Yz  lb.  of  almonds  and  pound  *-hem  fine, 
using  a  few  drops  of  stock  from  time  to  time  during  the  process, 
lest  the  almonds  'becoime  oily.  When  a  perfectly  fine,  smooth 
paste  is  formed,  add  it  to  and  allow  to  heat:  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  1  tablespoon  of  grated  celery  and  1  teaspoon  of  finely 
minced  parsley;  draw  the  saucepan  to  the  back  of  the  stove  and 
let  simmer  for  Yt.  hr.;  whip  Y2  g"ill  o^  sweet  cream  to  a  strong 
froth  and  pour  it  into  the  tureen.  Let  soup  come  to  the  scalding 
point  and  pour  at  once  over  the  cream,  straining  through  fine 
sieve;  serve  with  fried  sippets  or  croutons  of  bread. — Mrs.  E.  G. 
Harris,  Winnetka,  III. 


158  SOUP 

AMBER  SOUP.— Put  Yi  lb.  of  ham  in  the  bottom  of  soup 
kettle,  on  this  put  3  lbs.  of  lean  beef,  and  2  lbs.  of  veal;  cut  in 
thin  slices  2  large  carrots,  2  heads  of  celery,  2  turnips,  and  2 
onions,  season  with  pepper  (whole),  and  salt,  a  blade  of  mace  and 
2  cloves,  cover  the  vessel  closely  and  put  over  a  quick  fire;  when 
the  meat  begins  to  stick,  turn  it  over.  Continue  this  until  it  be- 
gins to  brown,  then  pour  over  a  gal.  of  boiling  water  and  set 
aside  to  simmer  4  hrs.  Skim  frequently,  and  keep  it  closely  cov- 
ered; when  done,  strain  it  through  a  sieve  or  fine  cloth,  and  set 
away  until  next  day.  Take  all  the  fat  from  the  top,  and  put  it 
over  the  fire  an  hr.  before  dinner.  When  it  boils,  stir  into  it  a  54 
box  of  gelatine,  soaked  for  1  hr.  in  a  teaspoon  of  cold  water;  give 
it  a  boil  and  serve. — Mrs.  Mary  Carpenter,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Break  a  chicken  or  remains  of  2  or  more 
roasted  fowls  in  pieces,  add  a  soup  bone  with  3  qts.  of  water.  Cook 
slowly  for  4  hrs,,  then  add  1  fried  onion,  Y^  doz.  cloves  stuck  into 
it,  J^  carrot,  parsley  and  3  stalks  of  celery,  and  cook  1  hr.;  the 
stock  will  then  be  reduced  to  2  qts.  Strain  into  a  large  bowl  and 
the  following  day  remove  the  fat  which  has  accumulated  on  top. 
Take  out  the  jellied  stock,  leaving  the  settlings  for  a  sauce  or 
gravy.  Heat  the  stock,  skim  and  mix  into  it  the  beaten  white 
of  an  ^^%,  shell  and  all;  skim  oflf  carefully,  and  strain  through  a 
fine  strainer. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  III. 

ALMOND  AND  CELERY  SOUP.— Cut  in  small  pieces  a 
bunch  of  celery,  using  the  leaves,  and  carefully  scraped  root,  add 
6  peppercorns,  2  bay  leaves,  a  tablespoon  of  onion  juice,  a  thin 
slice  of  lemon,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  stick  of  cinnamon;  cover 
with  a  qt.  of  water  and  cook  an  hr.;  strain,  and  reheat,  stirring  in 
a  cup  of  rich  milk  (cream  is  better),  and  ^  cup  ground  almonds. — 
E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

WHITE  ALMOND  SOUP.— Cream  together  the  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  and  dilute  with 
hot  veal  stock,  gradually;  let  boil  5  minutes,  then  stir  in  the  rest 
of  the  2  qts.  of  veal  stock;  add  1  cup  of  hot  cream,  more  sea- 
soning, if  needed,  and  the  2  oz.  of  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded 
fine  in  a  mortar.  Use  2  qts.  of  veal  broth. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy, 
Glen  View,  III.. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         159 

ASPARAGUS  SOUP. — Scrape  and  wash  the  asparagus.  Cook 
them  in  salted  boiling  water  for  about  25  minutes.  Drain  and  cut 
the  tips  off,  reserving  them,  for  further  use.  Mash  and  press  the 
stalks  through  the  colander  and  stir  them  into  1  qt.  of  boiling 
milk.  Stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  corn  starch,  already  dissolved  in  cold 
milk.  Put  in  the  tips,  add  pepper,  'bring  to  the  boiling  point,  take 
it  off  the  fire,  stir  in  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  serve. — Mrs. 
Frank  Mullins,  Franklin,  II. 

VARIATION  I. — Use  1  can  of  asparagus,  cut  off  the  tips,  and 
lay  them  aside.  Cut  up  the  stalks,  cover  with  4  cups  of  cold  milk 
(or  Yi  water  and  Yt.  milk),  and  let  cook  slowly  in  a  double  boiler 
for  Yt.  hr.;  then  strain,  pressing  the  asparagus  to  extract  the  flavor. 
Return  to  the  saucepan,  add  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  into  which  1  teaspoon  of  flour  has  been  made  smooth,  sea- 
son generously  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  the  asparagus  tips,  1  cup 
of  milk,  and  just  before  serving,  1  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream. 
A  tablespoon  of  minced  onion,  fried  for  10  minutes  in  butter,  is 
sometimes  added  to  the  stalks  while  cooking. — Mrs.  Roger  Rawl- 
ings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — 2  qts.  of  chicken  or  other  white  stock, 
2  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  bunches  of  asparagus,  1  qt.  milk,  just 
as  much  flour  as  the  butter  will  dissolve.  Cut  off  the  heads  of 
the  asparagus  and  set  aside,  cut  up  stalks  and  put  in  stock  to  iboil 
1  hr.  Boil  the  heads  in  salted  water,  melt  flour  and  butter,  stir 
the  milk  until  it  cooks;  strain  stock,  stir  in  butter  and  milk,  and 
season.  Before  serving,  add  the  asparagus  heads  and  J4  cup  of 
cream. — Mrs.  Joseph,  Bartlett,  111. 

ASPARAGUS  CREAM  SOUP.— Cut  off  the  ends  of  the  as- 
paragus for  about  2  inches,  and  hoil  the  rest  until  tender.  Rub 
the  vegetables  through  a  very  coarse  sieve  and  salt  the  pulp.  Boil 
a  pt.  of  milk,  mix  Yi  teaspoon  of  butter  with  J4  teaspoon  of  flour, 
and  stir  into  the  milk.  Add  the  asparagus  and  boil  about  10  min- 
utes, keeping  it  agitated.  Meanwhile  boil  the  ends  for  about  15 
minutes,  drain,  and  place  them  in  a  soup  tureen.  Add  2  table- 
spoons of  creara  to  the  soup  and  pour  it  into  the  tureen  without 
boiling  again.    Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 


160  SOUP 

BANANA  SOUP. — Rub  to  a  paste  with  a  wooden  spoon  8 
ripe  bananas,  sprinkle  over  these  1  tablespoon  of  corn  starch  and  a 
little  salt;  bring  to  scalding  point  3  pts.  of  milk,  stir  into  it,  slowly, 
the  banana  paste  and  1  egg,  beaten  lightly.  Let  all  boil  2  min- 
utes, and  serve  with  croutons. — E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

BARLEY  BROTH.— Put  2-lb.  shin  of  beef  in  1  gal.  of  water. 
Add  1  cup  of  pearl  barley,  3  large  onions  cut  up  fine,  a  small  bunch 
of  parsley,  minced,  3  slices  potatoes,  a  little  thyme,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Simmer  steadily  3  hrs.,  stir  often,  so  that  meat  will 
not  burn.  Do  not  let  it  'boil.  Always  stir  soup  or  broth  with  a 
wooden  spoon. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

BARLEY  SOUP.— Soak  3  tablespoons  of  barley  for  3  hrs.  in 
cold  water.  Strain,  and  put  it  to  cook  for  1  hr.  in  1  qt.  of  boiling 
bouillon;  add  a  J4  pt.  of  cream,  boil  and  serve. — Mrs.  Robert  Ran- 
dall, 908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

WHITE  BARLEY  SOUP.— Soak  a  cup  of  barley  for  several 
hrs.  in  enough  water  to  cover  it;  then  boil  in  a  qt.  of  veal  stock 
until  tender  and  clear.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  a 
tablespoon  of  minced  parsley,  and  with  celery  salt  and  white  pep- 
per to  taste.  Thicken  a  pt.  of  scalding  milk  with  a  white  roux, 
pour  the  hot  soup  slowly  upon  this,  and  serve. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason, 
Bensen,  111. 

BARLEY  AND  TOMATO  SOUP.— Cook  1  can  of  tomatoes, 
1  chopped  Spanish  onion  together  for  15  minutes,  then  rub  through 
a  wire  sieve;  add  3  tablespoons  of  pearl  barley,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  cook  for  1  hr.,  until  the  barley 
is  soft.  Re-season  before  serving.-r-Mrs.  L.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S. 
3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BEAN  SOUP. — Soak  1  qt.  white  beans  over  night;  in  the 
morning  pour  off  water;  add  fresh  water  and  set  over  fire,  till 
skins  will  slip  off  easily;  throw  them  in  cold  water,  rub  well  and 
skins  will  rise  to  top,  where  they  may  be  removed.  Boil  beans  till 
perfectly  soft,  allowing  2^  qts.  of  water  to  1  qt.  of  beans.  Mash 
beans,  add  flour  and  butter,  2  good  heaping  tablespoons  of  butter, 
and  just  flour  enough  to  mix  it  good;  also  salt  and  pepper;  cut 
old  bread  into  small  pieces,  toast  and  drop  into  soup  when  you 
serve. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Sanborne,  Bartlett,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         161 

VARIATION  I. — Rub  1  cup  of  beans,  cooked  soft,  through  a 
colander,  add  1  qt.  milk,  2  medium-sized  onions,  sliced  fine,  and 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  hot. — Mabel  Sturtevant, 
105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Wash  cup  of  beans,  soak  in  lukewarm  wa- 
ter all  night,  drain  off  in  morning,  boil  until  tender;  take  2  eggs, 
beat,  add  flour  to  make  a  thin  paste,  drop  from  spoon,  let  come  to 
a  boil,  then  add  salt,  milk  and  biscuits  to  taste. 

BAKED  BEAN  AND  TOMATO  PUREE.— ^  bay  leaf,  2 
slices  of  onion,  2  stalks  of  celery,  1  sprig  of  parsley,  1  pt.  of  Bos- 
ton baked  beans,  1  cup  of  thick  tomato  puree,  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, 1  taiblespoon  of  flour  croutons  or  buttered  crackers,  browned, 
1  qt.  of  water  or  light  stock,  salt  and  paprika. — Mrs.  May  C.  May, 
Mayfair,  111. 

BLACK  BEAN  SOUP.— 1  pt.  of  black  beans,  soaked  over 
night;  boil  until  very  soft.  Strain  through  a  sieve,  put  in  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste;  boil  a  piece  of  smoked  meat  with  it.  When  done 
put  folowing  into  the  tureen:  1  chopped  hard-boiled  egg,  1  wine- 
glass of  sherry,  juice  of  J^  a  lemon,  and  a  few  slices  of  lemon 
peel.  Pour  soup  over  this,  and  stir  once  or  twice. — Mrs.  Joseph 
King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

PUREE  OF  BLACK  BEANS.— 1  pt.  of  black  beans,  1  small 
onion,  2  qts.  of  cold  water,  2  teaspoons  of  salt,  %  saltspoon  of 
cayenne,  1  saltspoon  of  mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  2  hard-iboiled  eggs,  1  lemon,  1  gill  of  sherry. — 
Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

CREAM  OF  BEAN  SOUP.— Let  1  pt.  of  soup  stock,  2  cups 
of  flaked  beans  boil  3  minutes.  Melt  2  tablespoons  of  Ko-nut  in  a 
frying-pan,  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  J/^  teaspoon  of  salt,  %  tea- 
spoon of  paprika,  10  drops  of  onion  juice  and  1  pt.  of  milk,  slowly. 
When  well  mixed  add  the  soup  stock  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jef- 
fries, Winnetka,  111. 

LIMA  BEAN  SOUP.— Cut  up  2  mutton  chops,  1  qt.  of  Lima 
beans,  1  onion,  2  potatoes;  cut  in  very  small  pieces;  salt  and  pep- 
per, a  sprig  of  parsley;  cook  until  beans  are  done. — ^Mrs.  Frank 
Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 


162  SOUP 

MINNESOTA  BEAN  SOUP.— Soak  the  beans  over  night;  in 
the  morning  pour  off  the  water,  replacing  it  with  fresh  water;  set 
over  the  fire  until  the  skins  slip  off  easily.  Throw  them  into  cold 
water  and  ru'b  well,  the  skins  will  rise  to  the  top  and  can  be  re- 
moved. Boil  the  beans  until  perfectly  soft,  allowing  2  qts.  of 
water  to  1  qt.  of  beans;  mash  the  beans  and  add  flour  and  butter 
together,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pass  the  soup 
through  a  colander,  rubbing  all  the  thick  portion  with  a  wooden 
spoon.  Add  toasted  bread,  cut  into  small  pieces,  before  serving. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

RED  BEAN  SOUP.— Soak  for  8  hrs.  or  more  2  cups  of  red 
beans,  then  put  them  in  a  large  saucepan  containing  8  cups  of  cold 
water,  1  cup  of  milk,  and  2  onions,  halved,  each  having  4  cloves 
stuck  in  it.  Let  cook  for  2  hrs.,  then  press  throug'h  a  sieve,  re- 
heat, adding,  just  before  serving,  1,  wineglass  of  claret  and  fresh 
seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper,  1  hard-'boiled  egg,  chopped  fine,  will 
improve  this  soup. — Mrs.  Allan  George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

WHITE  BEAN  SOUP.— Put  IH  cups  beans  to  soak  over 
night;  in  the  morning  turn  off  the  water,  and  put  over  the  fire 
with  cold  water,  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork — about  ys  lb.,  a  small 
sliced  onion,  and  ^  teaspoon  thyme;  let  it  boil  until  the  beans  are 
cooked  to  pieces,  adding  boiling  water  as  it  cooks  away,  leaving 
about  a  qt.  when  done.  Strain  through  a  fine  colander,  working ' 
with  a  spoon  until  nothing  but  the  pulp  remains.  Return  to  the 
fire,  season  with  red  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  add  a  tablespoon  of 
cracker  crumbs;  if  too  thick,  thin  with  a  little  hot  water,  let  boil 
up  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  Bianca  Pessinger,  124  S.  20th 
Ave.,  Mayivood,  111. 

BEEF  BOUILLON.— Brown  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  add  1 
onion  and  a  little  water,  put  in  4  lbs.  of  lean  beef  and  roll  all 
around  and  brown  good;  then  add  plenty  of  cold  water  and  simmer 
a  long  time;  add  salt  and  pepper  and  strain. — Mrs.  Ella  Forbes, 
Maywood,  111. 

BEEF  HEART  SOUP.— Take  beef  heart,  cut  off  most  of  the 
fat  and  wash  it  thoroughly,  then  put  the  heart  into  a  kettle  with 
Ij^  gals,  cold  water,  and  boil  until  tender.  Just  before  it  is  quite 
done,  add  salt  to  the  taste.     Have  ready  a  variety  of  fine  chopped" 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  163 

vegetables — about  1  qt. — ^to  whicli  may  be  added  a  small  quantity 
of  either  macaroni,  rice  or  vermicelli.  Boil  all  together  for  1  hr. 
Serve  hot,  with  cubes  of  golden  brown  toast,  and  you  will  enjoy 
a  delicious  soup.  Better  satisfaction  will  be  given  if  the  heart  is 
removed  from  the  broth  before  adding  the  vegetables.  It  may 
then  be  stuffed  and  baked,  sliced  for  sandwiches,  or  made  into 
fine  hash. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Rawlins,  Glen  View,  111. 

BEEF  TEA. — ^^Cut  into  small  pieces  and  remove  every  particle 
of  fat  from  2  lbs.  of  beef.  Put  in  a  tightly  corked  ibottle.  Place 
the  bottle  in  a  deep  saucepan  of  cold  water,  covering  about  Yz  of 
the  bottle,  place  over  a  slow  fire  and  keep  boiling  for  15  minutes. 
Take  out  the  bottle,  pour  out  the  liquor  and  use  as  required. — Mrs. 
E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka.  111. 

CREAM  OF  BEET  SOUP.— Boil  the  young  beets  in  salted 
water  for  an  hr.  Lay  in  cold  water  until  cool  enough  to  handle. 
Scrape  off  all  the  skin  and  chop  the  beets  very  fine.  Turn  the 
beets  and  the  juice  which  has  exuded  from  them  into  a  pt.  of  mut- 
ton stock,  and  simmer  for  IS  minutes.  Rub  through  a  fine  colan- 
der or  a  coarse  soup  strainer  and  keep  hot  at  the  side  of  the  range. 
Cook  together  2  teaspoons  of  butter  and  2  of  flour,  and  pour  upon 
them  a  pt.  of  milk.  Stir  until  thick  and  smooth,  then  add  slowly 
the  beet  and  mutton  puree.  When  very  hot,  season  with  salt  and 
white  pepper,  and  serve. — Mrs.  Chris.  Worthington,  Des  Plaines, 
111. 

BELGIAN  SOUP. — Put  a  cup  of  diced  turnips  in  a  saucepan 
with  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  stir  for  10  minutes  over  a  slow 
fire,  then  stir  in  2  cups  of  water,  2  teaspoons  of  brown  sugar,  and 
plenty  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  simmer  for  another  10  minutes; 
add  2  cups  of  milk,  thickened  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  let  boil  up, 
stirring  constantly,  and  serve  with  croutons. — Mrs.  Chris,  Worth- 
ington, Des  Plaines,  111. 

STANDARD  BOUILLON.— 1  pt.  of  water  to  every  lb.  of 
meat;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  vegetables  to  taste. — ^Mrs.  E.  D. 
Kelley,  Winnetka,  III. 

BOUILLON. — Take  lean  beef  from  the  lower  round  and 
shank  of  veal  in  equal  proportion;  put  heaping  tablespoon  of  but- 


164  SOUP 

tcr  into  the  soup  pot,  put  in  the  meat,  which  has  been  cut  into 
small  pieces;  stir  over  a  hot  fire  till  the  im^at  begins  to  brown,  add 

1  pt.  of  water  and  cook  until  la  thick  glace  forms  on  the  bottom  of 
the  kettle,  about  1  hr.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  water  in  propor- 
tion of  a  pt  to  every  lb.  of  meat.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Skim,  and 
set  back  where  it  will  simmer  for  6  hrs.  Strain  through  a  fine 
cloth  and  set  away  to  cool,  after  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
When  thoroughly  cold,  skim  oflF  the  fat.  When  ready  to  use  bring 
to  a  boiling  point. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeflfries,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— To  5  lbs.  of  beef,  cut  in  small  pieces,  add  5 
qts.  of  cold  water.  Simmer  slowly  6  hrs.  After  boiling  3  hrs. 
slowly,  add  salt,  black  pepper,  1  tablespoon  allspice,  2  onions,  cut 
fine,  1  grated  carrot,  2  stalks  of  celery,  2  tomatoes,  J^  doz.  whole 
cloves.  Boil  slowly  3  hrs.  longer,  strain  and  set  away.  Next  day 
remove  the  fat  and  boil.  Just  before  serving  add  a  little  nutmeg 
and  mace.  Serve  in  bouillon  cups. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka, 
111. 

VARIATION  II.— Take  4  lbs.  from  the  middle  of  the  round, 

2  lbs,  bone,  2  qts.  cold  water,  1  tablespoon  salt,  4  peppercorns,  1 
tablespoon  imixed  herbs;  cut  meat  and  bones  in  small  pieces,  sim- 
mer 5  hrs.,  boil  down  to  3  pts.,  strain,  remove  the  fat,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  serve.  Boil  1  onion,  y^  carrot,  and  1  turnip,  if 
liked. — Mrs,  Alllan  George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

VARIATION  III.— 1  soup  bone,  1  ox-tail,  knuckle  of  veal,  10 
whole  peppercorns,  celery  and  parsley,  1  whole  onion,  5  carrots, 
halved,  3  ripe  tomatoes,  or  ^  can  tomatoes,  salt  to  taste.  If  pos- 
sible, cook  the  day  before  using,  allowing  time  to  settle,  and  grease 
to  rise.  Serve  in  cups. — (Mrs.  Helen  Williams,  6032  Ellis  Ave,.  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

BROWN  FLOUR  SOUP.— Put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  clean 
iron  frying-pan.  When  melted,  sprinkle  in  5^  a  cup  of  flour,  and 
stir  briskly  until  the  flour  is  of  a  uniform  brown  color,  like  roasted 
coflfee.  Add  this  gradually  to  2  qts.  of  water.  Peel  and  cut  into 
cubes  3  potatoes,  and  cook  in  the  soup  20  minutes.  Season  with 
an  onion  and  a  teaspoon  of  celery  salt. — Mrs.  Joseph  Dunlap,  Bart- 
lett,  III. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  165 

BRUSSELS  SPROUT  SOUP.— Pick  and  wash  1  pt.  of  Brus- 
sels sprouts.  Cook  them  in  3  pts.  of  boiling  bouillon  for  about  Yz 
an  hour.  Serve  with  croutons. — Mrs.  Allan  George,  Park  Ridge, 
111. 

BUTTERMILK  SOUP.—Boil  J^  doz.  medium-sized  potatoes 
in  salted  water  to  cover,  and  when  done  pour  off  the  water,  mash 
the  potatoes,  and  add  1  qt.  of  buttermilk,  thickened  with  2  table- 
spoons flour.  Let  boil  up,  then  add  a  lump  of  butter,  and  serve 
hot.— Mrs.  Frank  Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

CABBAGE  SOUP  WITH  STOCK  (German  Style).— Wash 
and  trim  off  the  outer  leaves  of  1  sound  white  cabbage.  Chop  the 
cabbage  fine  and  put  in  a  stew-pan  with  1  qt.  of  water;  let  boil 
until  tender.  Add  1  qt.  of  beef  broth,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
boil  once  more.  Before  serving,  stir  in  a  lump  of  butter  and  2 
of  sugar.     Serve  hot. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CABBAGE  SOUP.— 1  cabbage,  1  oz.  fat,  1  onion,  3  pts.  water, 
1  pt.  milk,  1  oz.  jine  sayo,  salt,  pepper,  chopped  parsley.  Wash 
and  shred  cabbage — melt  fat  in  saucepan,  add  sliced  cabbage,  2 
onions.  Place  over  gentle  heat  for  10  minutes,  shaking  frequently. 
Pour  over  boiling  water  and  cook  for  J4  an  hr.  or  longer,  till  cab- 
bage is  tender.  Then  add  milk  and  sprinkle  in  sayo.  Boil  until 
sayo  becomes  clear,  10  minutes,  about.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley. — Mrs.  Alex.  Drexel,  Park  Ridge, 
111. 

VARIATION  I. — Chop  fine  }^  head  of  tender  white  cabbage, 
and  let  boil  J^  hr.  in  1  pt.  of  water,  by  which  time  the  water  will 
be  nearly  cooked  away.  Drain  out  the  remaining  water,  then  add 
1  pt.  boiling  milk,  Y^  cup  cream,  butter  size  of  an  t.^^y  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Serve  with  crisp  crackers. — Mrs.  H.  B.  San- 
borne,  Bartlett,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — ^To  a  piece  of  meat,  either  pork  or  beef, 
add  enough  water  to  cover,  and  bring  to  a  boil,  skin  it;  cut  cab- 
bage fine,  cover  with  water,  bring  to  a  boil  and  drain  and  add  it 
to  the  boiling  meat;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion.  When 
meat  and  cabbage  are  done,  add  a  cup  of  good  sour  cream,  bring 
to  a  boil  again,  take  out  the  meat  and  serve  the  soup.  Tomatoes 
may  be  added,  if  desired. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Clancy,  Kenilworth,  III. 


166  SOUP 

CALCUTTA  BISQUE.— Put  1  cup  of  tomato  pulp  and  1  bay 
leaf  in  saucepan.  When  hot  add  to  it  1  saltspoon  of  soda,  and  as 
it  foams  stir  slowly  into  it  3  or  4  cups  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  curry 
powder,  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  and  1  saltspoon  of  salt.  Let  boil  up 
once,  and  serve  with  croutons.  The  water  in  which  the  rice  has 
boiled,  or  any  vegetable  stock,  may  be  substituted  for  milk,  and 
the  soda  then  omitted. — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

CALF'S  FOOT  BROTH.— Clean  2  feet  thoroughly.  Put  them 
in  3  qts.  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  until  it  wastes  away  to  3  pts. 
Strain  and  set  aside  in  a  cool  place.  When  cold,  remove  the  fat. 
Heat  a  little  at  a  time,  add  salt  and  nutmeg,  if  desired. — Mrs.  E. 
D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CARROT  OR  CRECY  SOUP.— Wash  and  scrape  Ipt.  carrots; 
shave  off  in  thin  slices  a  pt.  of  the  outer  part.  Do  not  use  the  yel- 
low center.  Cook  the  carrot  with  1  small  onion  in  boiling  salted 
water  to  cover,  until  very  tender.  Rub  the  carrot  through  a 
squash  strainer,  add  1  qt.  of  rich  stock  and  heat  again.  Add  1  tea- 
spoon sugar,  1  of  salt,  and  Yt.  saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  when  hot 
serve  immediately,  with  croutons. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Bensen,  111. 

CREAM  OF  CARROT  SOUP.— Boil  1  pt.  of  carrots  until  ten- 
der, then  rub  through  a  sieve.  Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  stir  until  smooth,  then 
add  1  qt.  of  hot  chicken  l)roth  or  milk.  Let  boil  5  minutes,  and 
add  the  strained  carrots  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Just 
before  serving  add  1  pt.  rich  milk  and  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
with  a  little  chopped  parsley. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 

CREAM  OF  CARROT  AND  ONION.— Fry  2  cups  of  grated 
carrots  and  1  chopped  onion  for  10  minutes  with  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  and  cover  with  4  cups  of  cold  water,  and  let  boil.  Add  salt 
and  pepper,  and  in  20  minutes  1  cup  of  milk,  in  which  1  tablespoon 
of  flour  has  been  dissolved. — Mrs.  Chris.  Worthington,  Des  Plaines, 
111. 

CARROT  SOUP  WITH  STOCK.— Put  in  soup  kettle  a 
knuckle  of  veal,  4  qts.  of  cold  water,  1  qt.  fine-sliced  carrots,  1 
large  head  of  celery;  let  boil  2^^  hrs.,  and  add  K  <^^P  o^  rice,  boil  1 
hr.  longer;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka, 111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  167 

CELERY  SOUP.— 1  pt.  of  soup  stock,  3  (bunches  of  celery, 
chopped  fine,  cooked  Y^  hf.,  1  qt.  milk  put  in  just  long  enough  be- 
fore using,  to  boil  up,  add  enough  flour  to  thicken  the  least  bit, 
also  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Frank  Mullins,  Franklin, 
111. 

BROWN  CELERY  SOUP.— 1  head  celery,  4  potatoes,  and  1 
carrot  (all  cut  in  small  pieces),  1  Spanish  onion,  and  2  qts.  of 
water  Mode.  Chop  the  onions  small  and  fry  in  butter  till  brown. 
Add  to  the  water,  and  boil  15  minutes,  then  strain  out  the  onion. 
Add  the  vegetables,  and  boil  1  hr.,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt. 
— Mrs.  B.  Hubert,  3733  Elmwood  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP.— Wash  a  bunch  of  celery,  cut 
into  inch  lengths  and  boil  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  it  until 
so  soft  that  it  can  be  rubbed  through  a  colander.  Rub  through 
the  colander,  return  to  the  fire,  and  add,  if  you  have  it,  a  pt.  of 
white  stock.  Scald  a  pt.  of  milk  and  thicken  it  with  a  ta'blespoon 
of  flour  rubbed  into  1  of  butter,  and,  when  smooth,  add  the  liquid. 
Season  with  white  pepper  and  celery  salt,  and  serve  at  once. — 
Jane  Parker,  803  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Take  2  qts.  veal  stock,  2  -bunches  celery,  3 
cloves,  2  onions,  3  peppercorns,  1  bunch  parsley,  boil  1  hr.  and 
strain,  then  add  1  pt.  whipped  cream,  after  dished.  Season  with 
salt  to  taste.  Tapioca  or  asparagus  may  be  substituted  for  celery. 
— Mrs.  Ethan  Earle,  Mayfair,  111. 

CHEESE  BALL  SOUP.— To  1  qt.  soup  stock,  add  2  small 
red  peppers  and  a  dash  of  onion  juice.  Cut  stale  bread  in  small 
squares,  roll  in  melted  butter,  then  in  grated  cheese,  and  bake  in 
hot  oven  until  brown  and  crisp;  drop  in  soup  just  before  serving. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAM  OF  CHEESE  SOUP.— Put  1  qt.  (4  cups)  of  milk  in 
a  double  boiler  and  with  it  ^  of  a  cup  of  grated  cheese,  1  teaspoon 
of  grated  onion,  1  teaspoon  of  some  piquant  sauce,  ^  teaspoon  of 
salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  of  but- 
ter, rubbed  together.  Stir  until  smooth,  then  beat  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs  with  2  tablespoons  of  milk,  put  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the 
boiling  soup  over  them,  stirring  during  the  process.  Add  a  little 
salt,  and  serve  with  croutons. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Bensen,  111. 


168  SOUP 

CHERRY  SOUP.— Soups  made  from  fruit  jukes  only  slightly 
sweetened,  thickened  with  arrow-root,  and  served  cold  in  bouillon 
cups,  are  quite  acceptable  in  hot  days.  Allow  1  pt.  of  water  to  a 
pt.  of  fruit.  Stew,  mash,  and  sift  the  fruit,  sweeten  and  thicken 
slightly,  and  boil  till  clear.  Some  fruits  require  a  little  lemon 
juice  or  wine.  Add  chipped  ice  and  serve  with  Zwieback  or  toast- 
ed wafers. — Mrs.  Frank  Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

CHESTNUT  SOUP.— Peel  and  blanch  1  qt.  of  Italian  chest- 
nuts and  chop  them  fine,  boil  for  5^  an  hr,  in  2  qts.  of  water. 
Strain  the  chestnuts  and  crush  them  to  fine  pulp  in  a  mortar,  and 
gra"dually  stir  into  this  1  qt.  of  stock  in  which  the  chestnuts  were 
cooked,  and  rub  all  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire  in  a 
saucepan,  with  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  1 
saltspoon  of  pepper.  Cook  for  ^  an  hr.,  then  strain  again,  and 
add  2  cups  of  milk  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  and  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  and  re-heat  to  boiling  point. — ^^Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S. 
8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SOUR  CHERRY  SOUP.— Stone  a  cup  of  sour  cherries  and 
reserve  to  serve  in  the  soup.  Stew  the  juice  with  a  pt.  of  cherries 
in  a  qt.  of  water  and  press  through  a  fine  sieve.  Heat  to  the  boil- 
ing point  and  thicken  with  a  teaspoon  of  cornstarch,  diluted  with 
water  to  pour,  or  mixed  with  ^  cup  of  sugar;  let  cook  15  minutes. 
Meanwhile,  pound  the  cherry-stones  an<i  heat  them  with  a  cup  of 
red  wine  just  to  the  boiling  point,  and  strain  the  liquid  into  the 
soup;  add  the  stoned  cherries,  and  serve  with  crackers  or  toast, 
sprinkled,  if  desired,  with  sugar.  Macaroons  and  plain  sweet 
crackers  are  also  served.  Fruit  soups  take  the  place  of  fruit  as  a 
first  course  at  a  luncheon  or  tea>  The  thickening  is  often  omitted. 
— iMts.  L.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Ma3rwood,  111. 

CREAM  OF  CHESTNUT  SOUP.— Shell  and  blanch  2  lbs. 
of  chestnuts.  Cook  them  in  1  qt.  of  water  for  5^  hr..  adding  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Drain,  place  the  chestnuts  in  2  qts.  of  clear  beef 
stock;  add  1  teaspoon  of  celery  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped 
onion,  1  teaspoon  each  of  pepper  and  chopped  parsley,  and  cook 
until  the  chestnuts  are  soft — probably  10  or  15  minutes.  Add  1 
teaspoon  of  grated  lemon  rind  and  pulp  pressed  through  a  puree 
sieve.    Return  to  fire,  add  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  2  teaspoons 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         169 

of  salt,  and  1  pt,  of  rich  cream  or  milk,  with  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter.    Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Boil  in  white  broth  1  pt.  of  steamed  chest- 
nuts; when  tender,  mash  fine,  pass  through  a  sieve,  add  cream,  and 
season.  If  not  thick  enough,  add  a  little  flour  and  butter,  imixed. 
Serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

CONSOMME  WITH  CHESTNUTS.— Shell  and  blanch  24 
chestnuts.  Throw  them  into  a  pt.  of  stock  and  cook  carefully  un- 
til they  are  just  tender.  Drain  and  dust  them  lightly  with  salt. 
Pour  nicely  seasoned  chicken  consomme  or  broth  into  the  tureen 
and  drop  in  the  chestnuts.  These  must  be  handled  lightly,  as  they 
break  easily. — Mrs.  Allan  George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

CHESTNUT  PUREE.— Boil  60  blanched  chestnuts  in  a  qt.  of 
water, or  light  stock, then  press  while  hot  through  a  fine  puree  sieve; 
add  2  qts.  of  broth,  stir  until  the  boiling  point  is  reached,  then  sim- 
mer an  hr.;  skim  and  pour  the  soup  into  a  tureen.  Serve  with  crou- 
tons of  fried  bread. — ^Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Boil  1  lb.  of  large  chestnuts  until  tender. 
Peel  and  press  them  through  the  colander.  Cut  a  small  onion 
into  small  pieces  and  fry  in  butter.  Add  to  the  chestnuts  enough 
boiling  milk  to  make  the  mixture  the  consistency  of  cream.  Mix 
with  the  onions,  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  and  serve  with  crou- 
tons.— Mrs.  Frank  MuUins,  Franklin,  111. 

CHICKEN  SOUP — Clean  a  3-lb.  chicken  and  cut  it  at  the 
joints  into  nice  pieces  for  serving.  Put  it  in  the  soup  kettle  with 
1  lb.  of  veal  bones,  or  other  pieces  of  veaL  Cover  with  4  qts.  of 
cold  water.  Mix  1  tablespoon  of  curry  powder,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
and  1  of  sugar  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  of  the  water;  add  it 
to  the  soup.  Let  the  soup  simmer  until  the  chicken  is  lender. 
Remove  the  chicken  and  cut  into  simall  pieces.  Put  the  bones 
back  in  the  kettle,  and  simmer  another  hr.  Strain  the  soup,  remove 
the  fat,  and  put  the  liquor  on  to  boil  again,  with  the  pieces  of 
chicken  and  3  or  4  tablespoons  of  boiled  rice.  When  the  rice  is 
hot,  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Stew  1  chicken,  cut  in  small  pieces  in  1  gal. 
of  water  till  the  meat  will  cleave  from  the  bones.    Shred  the  meat 


170  SOUP 

and  put  in  tureen;  to  the  stock  add  1  bunch  of  celery,  chopped  line, 
cook  until  tender,  then  add  the  meat,  and  a  pt.  of  sweet  milk. 
Serve  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  in  each  plate. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Stew  1  pt.  tomatoes,  1  large  sliced  onion, 
all  the  "left-overs"  from  either  baked  or  stewed  chicken,  including 
gravy  and  dressing,  with  3  qts.  hot  water,  about  2  hrs.;  then  strain 
through  colander;  season  to  suit  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cau- 
tion.— Do  not  boil  hard,  but  simmer. — Mrs.  Florence  Davies,  426 
S.  18th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CHICKEN  CREAM  SOUP.— Cut  up  a  large  fowl  and  beat 
with  a  mallet  to  crack  the  bones;  pour  in  5  qts.  of  cold  water,  cover 
closely,  and  simmer  for  4  hrs.  more.,  until  the  chicken  is  perfectly 
tender.  Take  the  meat  off  the  bones,  take  out  the  skin.  Return 
the  soup  to  the  fire  with  a  part  of  the  nueat  chopped  fine,  salt,  pep- 
per, a  little  boiled  rice  and  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Just  before  tak- 
ing from  the  fire  add  a  small  teacup  of  cream,  heated,  with  a  pinch 
of  soda;  add  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  boil  for  1  minute. 
You  may  further  enrich  this  excellent  soup  by  heating  up  2  eggs 
and  stirring  them  into  it  just  before  taking  from  the  fire.  A  still 
'better  way  is  to  pour  a  little  of  the  soup  upon  the  eggs  to  avoid 
curdling,  then  add  to  the  rest. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  cup  of  cold  roast  chicken,  chopped  as  fine 
as  jKDwder;  a  pt.  of  strong  chicken  broth;  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream; 
y2  a  cupful  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs;  3  yolks  of  eggs;  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt;  Yt.  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Soak  the  crumbs  in  a  little 
of  the  cream.  Bring  the  broth  to  boiling  point,  and  add  the  meat. 
Break  the  eggs,  separating  the  yolks  and  whites.  Drop  the  yolks 
carefully  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  hard;  then  rub  to  a  powder 
and  add  to  the  soup,  with  the  cream  and  the  seasoning.  Simmer 
10  minutes,  and  serve  hot. — 'Mrs.  Chas.  Eggleston,  Wheeling,  111. 

A  DELICATE  CHICKEN  SOUP.— Prepare  3  young  chick- 
ens, put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  5  pts.  of  white  stock  freed  from 
fat  and  cleared  from  sediment.  Add  a  sliced  turnip  and  carrot,  if 
desired,  but  remove  before  the  soup  is  thickened.  Let  them  sim- 
mer gently  for  1  hr.    Remove  all  the  white  flesh,  return  the  rest 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         171 

of  the  birds  to  the  soup,  and  simmer  once  more  for  2  hrs.  Pour  a 
little  of  the  boiling  liquid  over  ^  lb.  of  bread  crumbs,  and  when 
well  soaked,  drain,  and  put  it  in  a  mortar  with  the  flesh  which 
has  been  taken  from  tlie  bones  and  pounded  to  a  smooth  paste, 
adding,  by  degrees,  the  liquid.  Flavor  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  very 
little  pounded  mace;  press  the  mixture  through  a  sieve  and  boil 
once  more,  adding  1  pt.  of  boiling  cream.  If  the  soup  is  not  thick 
enough,  a  tablespoon  of  arrow-root,  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk, 
may  be  added. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  III. 

ENGLISH  CHICKEN  SOUP.— This  soup  is  usually  made 
from  the  "remnants"  of  chicken.  Cut  the  dark  meat  of  chicken 
into  blocks,  rejecting  the  skin  and  fat.  Crack  the  bones,  put  them 
into  a  kettle;  cover  with  2  qts.  of  cold  water;  add  1  bay  leaf  and 
1  saltspoon  of  pepper,  (bring  to  boiling,  and  simmer  gently  for  1 
hr.  Strain,  put  back  over  the  fire,  and  boil  rapidly  for  30  min- 
utes, or  until  reduced  to  a  qt.;  now  add  1  tablespoon  of  onion 
juice,  bay  leaf,  Y-i  teaspoon  of  kitchen  bouquet,  salt,  and  chicken 
blocks.  When  thoroughly  hot,  serve.  This  soup  should  be  per- 
fectly clear,  and  of  an  amber  color. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Jefferson,  505  S. 
5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CHICKENS*  FEET  SOUP.— No  less  an  authority  than  Miss 
Barloa  recommends  chicken  feet  as  a  material  for  soup.  The  in- 
structions are:  "Cut  off  at  the  usual  joint,  wash  and  throw  into 
boiling  water,  and  after  a  little  while  draw  off  their  skins  and 
scales  and  boil  them.  Their  gluten  is  a  delicious  base  for  sauces 
or  soups.  Boil  with  the  feet,  the  head,  wing  tops  arid  neck  of  the 
chicken,  and  a  delicate  broth,  impossible  to  make  from  other  parts 
of  the  bird,  is  produced.  This  preparation  is  as  much  a  luxury 
as  it  is  an  economy. — Mrs.  Jane  Evers,  Winnetka,  111. 

CHICKEN  SOUP  WITH  NOODLES.— This  may  be  made 
from  chicken  consomme,  or  from  the  water  in  which  a  chicken  has 
Ibeen  boiled.  When  boiled  chicken  is  to  form  the  dinner  meat, 
save  the  stock  in  which  it  was  cooked,  and  use  it  the  next  day  for 
noodle  soup.  Do  not  have  chicken  soup  and  boiled  chicken  at  the 
same  meal.  To  each  qt.  of  strained  and  nicely  seasoned  stock,  add 
1  oz.  of  noodles.  Boil  rapidly  for  about  5  minutes,  and  serve. — 
Mrs.  Allan  George,  Park  Ridge,  Til. 


172  SOUP 

CHICKEN  BROTH.— Cut  a  chicken  into  small  pieces,  put 
into  a  deep  earthen  dish,  adding  1  qt.  of  cold  water,  and  set 
it  over  a  boiling-  kettle.  Cover  closely  and  let  it  steam  several 
hrs.,  until  the  chicken  lias  become  tender,  after  which  strain  oflF 
the  broth  and  let  stand  over  night.  Skim  off  all  the  fat  in  the 
imorning  and  pour  the  broth  in  a  bowl.  Add  14  cup  of  rice  in  a 
cup  "of  cold  water.  Steam  as  before,  until  the  rice  is  soft:  then 
pour  in  the  broth  and  stir  another  hr.  or  2. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

CHICKEN  BROTH  WITH  PEAS,  EGGS  AND  DUMP- 
LINGS.— 'Carcass  of  1  chicken,  2  qts.  of  cold  water.  1  level  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  5^  pt.  of  green  peas,  1  head  of  lettuce,  1  saltspoon  of 
pepper.  If  you  bave  had  a  roasted  chicken  for  dinner,  crack  the 
bones,  and  put  them  with  any  bits  that  are  left  on  the  carcass  into 
a  kettle;  cover  with  cold  water,  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Sim- 
mer gently  for  2  hrs.,  strain  and  stand  aside.  About  an  hr.  before 
the  soup  is  to  be  served,  boil  the  peas  until  tender;  drain  and  press 
through  a  colander;  add  to  them  a  teaspoon  of  grated  onion,  a 
saltspoon  of  salt,  just  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  2  tablespoons  of 
white,  smooth  bread  crumbs.  Break  in  1  whole  egg;  mix  thor- 
oughly, and  make  into  tiny  balls,  drop  them  into  the  hot  soup;  add 
the  lettuce,  shredded;  cover  and  stand  where  it  will  almost  boil 
for  10  minutes.  Add  salt,  and  serve  at  once. — Mabel  Sturtevant, 
105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHICKEN  CORN  SOUP.— Skim  the  liquor  from  boiled 
chickens.  Heat  and  strain,  put  back  on  the  stove,  .with  12  cobs 
from  which  the  corn  has  been  cut.  Boil  5^  an  hr..  take  out  cobs 
and  add  the  corn;  stew  40  minutes,  from  time  of  boiling.  Add  a 
cup  of  hot  milk,  in  which  stir  a  spoon  of  butter,  cut  up  in  flour. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennett,  Bartlett,  111. 

CLAM  SOUP. — ^Cut  salt  pork  into  very  small  squares  and  fry 
a  ligbt  brown;  add  1  large  or  2  small  onions,  cut  very  fine,  and 
cook  about  10  minutes;  add  2  qts.  water  and  1  qt.  clams:  mix  1 
tablespoon  flour  with  the  water,  put  it  with  1  pt.  of  milk,  and  pour 
into  the  soup  and  let  it  boil  about  5  minutes;  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  Worcestershire  sauce  to  taste. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen 
View,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  173 

VARIATION  I.— Cook  2  qts.  of  clams  20  minutes  in  their 
liquor;  add  salt  and  pepper,  3  pts.  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 
mixed  with  butter  size  of  an  tgg.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  strain. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CLAM  BROTH.— Put  1  pt.  of  clams  and  ^  a  cup  of  cold 
water,  in  the  farina  boiler.  Have  the  water  in  the  outside  kettle 
cold,  and  let  it  heat  slowly.  Cook  for  30  minutes  after  the  water 
in  the  outside  kettle  is  boiled.  Strain  the  liquid  from  the  clams, 
put  them  through  the  meat  juice  extractor,  and  add  extracted 
liquor  to  strained  liquid.  Heat  when  ready  to  serve,  unless  desired 
cold,  and  dilute  with  water,  if  necessary. — Mrs.  Chris.  Worthing- 
ton,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

BISQUE  OF  CLAMS.— Take  50  clams,  1  qt.  of  milk,  1  pt. 
water,  2  tablespoons  of  butter;  save  all  the  liquor  the  clams  con- 
tain. Put  over  the  fire  with  a  doz.  •whole  peppers,  J^  doz.  blades 
of  mace,  and  salt  to  taste.  Let  it  boil  for  10  minutes,  then  drop  in 
the  clams.  Let  boil  quickly  for  J^  hr.,  keeping  the  pot  covered. 
Strain  the  liquid  before  the  clams  are  added.  Be  careful  not  to 
let  the  soup  burn. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CLAM-JUICE  BROTH.— Wash  in  cold  water  in  their  shells, 
place  in  a  granite-pan  with  just  a  few  drops  of  water;  when  tbey 
become  hot,  their  shells  will  open.  Pour  out  the  'broth,  season 
to  suit  the  taste,  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

CLAM  CHOWDER.— Prepare  6  potatoes,  chopped,  or  put 
through  meat  grinder,  6  onions,  treated  same  way,  1  car- 
rot; cook  these  vegetables  in  2  qts.  of  water.  Add  J4  lb.  of  salt 
pork,  which  has  been  cut  into  dice  and  fried  to  a  crisp,  ^  can 
tomato  juice,  and  meat  of  12  clams,  chopped  fine. — Mrs.  Chas.  Ellis, 
Winnetka,  111. 

CLEAR  SOUP  WITH  NOODLES.— Take  2  qts.  of  clear  beef 
broth,  peel  and  slice  2  carrots  an'd  2  onions;  put  into  a  stew-pan 
with  a  generous  lump  of  butter,  and  1  cabbage  cut  into  shreds,  cov- 
er and  put  over  a  slow  fire,  stew  gently,  until  tender.  Shake  the 
pan  occasionally  to  prevent  iburning.  When  the  vegetables  are 
cooked  put  them  into  the  beef  broth  and  boil  the  whole  gently 
for  J^  hr.,  then  strain. 


174  SOUP 

To  make  noodles. — Lightly  warm  J^  cup  of  butter  and  beat  to 
a  cream,  then  work  smoothly  into  it  2  heaping  tablespoons  of 
flour  and  2  well-beaten  eggs,  forming  small  balls.  Let  the  soup 
boil  up  again;  drop  in  the  balls,  and  let  it  simmer  for  an  hr. 
longer. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

COCKIE  LEEKIE  SOUP.— Purchase  the  marrow-bone  from 
the  round;  have  the  butcher  saw  it  into  2-inch  lengths,  /making  4 
bones.  Draw  and  truss  one  fowl;  put  it  into  a  soup  kettle;  cover 
with  cold  water,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  skim.  Add  l^lb.  beef 
marrow-bones,  2  bay  leaves  and  1  saltspoon  pepper;  simmer 
gently  for  1  hr.  Add  2  doz.  leeks,  neatly  trimmed;  simmer  1 
hr.  longer.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  salt;  bring  again  to  boiling  point, 
and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  Remove  the  strings  from  the  chicken, 
dish  it  in  the  center  of  a  large  platter,  put  J^  lb.  of  prunes  around, 
garnish  the  edge  of  the  dish  with  carefully  boiled  rice,  the  marrow- 
bones, and  the  leeks.  Strain  "the  soup  into  a  tureen  over  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  serve  with  squares  of  toasted  bread. 
Serve  egg  sauce  with  the  chicken.  This  dish  takes  the  place  of 
Both  meat  and  soup. — Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S.  8th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

COCOANUT  SOUP.— -Cook  2  lbs.  of  veal  bones  in  2  qts.  of 
cold  water  until  the  meat  is  tender  and  the  stock  reducejl  to  1  qt. 
Grate  the  cocoanut  and  let  it  simmer  with  the  veal  the  last  54  hr. 
Strain  out  the  bones  and  cocoanut,  and  add  to  it  the  milk  of  the 
cocoanut  and  1  pt.  of  cream.  Put  it  on  the  fire  again,  and  when 
boiling,  thicken  it  with  1  tablespoon  each  of  corn  starch  and  white 
sauce.  Add  salt  and  pepper,  and  just  before  serving  add  a  little 
of  the  broth,  to  2  slightly  beaten  eggs,  then  stir  it  quickly  into  the 
broth,  and  serve  at  once,  with  dried  dice  of  'bread. — Mrs.  Clark 
Mason,  Bensen,  111. 

CODFISH  SOUP.— To  1  pt.  of  strained  tomatoes,  add  1  cup 
boiled  and  flaked  codfish,  1  qt.  of  water,  and  a  himp  of  butter;  boil 
15  minutes,  then  add  scant  J/^*  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  while  it  is 
foamy,  pour  in  1  pt.  scalded  milk.  Serve  at  once. — ^Mrs.  L.  C. 
Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CONSOMME. — Consomme  is  of  fine  aroma  and  forms  the 
basis  of  many  superior  soups.     Owing  to  its  rich  yellow  color  it 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         175 

often  is  called  amiber  soup.  Put  the  soup-pot  over  the  fire  and 
and  place  in  it  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  white  sugar.  Let  it  melt 
and  smoke  for  5  minutes,  then  add  1  cup  of  cold  water;  boil  for  10 
minutes,  then  pour  in  4  qts.  of  cold  water,  and  add  2  lbs.  of  beef, 
cut  in  small  pieces,  and  2  lbs.  of  knuckle  of  veal.  Proceed,  as 
directed  for  stock,  letting  the  soup  simmer  for  5  hrs. — Mrs.  May 
C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 4  lbs.  beef  bones,  1  lb.  coarse  lean  beef  and  1 
lb.  chopped  veal,  1  onion,  1  carrot,  1  turnip,  1  cabbage  leaf,  6 
stalks  celery,  8  qts.  cold  water.  Put  all  together  and  simmer 
gently  at  least  6  hrs.,  salt  and  put  aside  to  cool.  Remove  fat  and 
strain,  pressing  the  mixture  .hard  that  all  the  nourishment  may  be 
extracted.  Re-heat,  and  as  it  warms,  stir  in  white  of  an  egg.  As 
soon  as  it  boils  up,  throw  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  let  it  stand  3 
minutes.  Then  pour  through  a  flannel  bag  and  let  drip;  do  not 
squeeze.  Return  to  fire,  season  with  caramel  to  suit,  taste  and 
color,  add  cayenne  pepper  and  more  salt,  if  needed. — Mrs.  Florence 
Davies,  426  S.  18th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CONSOMME  A  LA  DUCHESS.— Work  together  J^  cup  of 
bread  crumbs,  1  egg,  J^  cup  of  soft  cheese,  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  a 
dash  of  cayenne;  form  into  tiny  balls  the  size  of  small  marbles. 
Roll  them  in  egg  and  drop  quickly  into  boiling  stock  or  water. 
They  cannot,  however,  be  dropped  into  the  stock  in  which  they 
are  to  be  served,  or  it  will  become  clouded.  Take  them  out  with  the 
skimmer,  put  into  the  soup  tureen,  pour  over  the  hot  stock,  and 
send  at  once  to  the  table. — Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

CONSOMME,  OR  PLAIN  MEAT  STOCK  FOR  SOUP.— 

Consomme,  or  stock,  forms  the  basis  of  all  meat  soups,  gravies 
and  purees.  The  simpler  it  is  made,  the  longer  it  keeps.  It  is 
best  made  of  fresh,  uncooked  beef,  and  some  broken  bones,  to 
which  may  be  added  the  remnants  and  ends  of  meats.  Put  4  lbs.  of 
beef  and  broken  bones  and  1  gal.  of  cold  water  on  the  back  of  the 
stove,  and  let  it  slowly  come  to  a  boil,  then  simmer  3  or  4  hrs., 
until  the  water  is  boiled  away  one-half.  Add  2  teaspoons  salt,  strain 
and  set  to  cool,  in  an  earthen  dish,  well  covered.  When  cold,  take 
the  fat  off  the  top,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

To  make  soup  for  a  family  of  six. — ^Take  %  of  the  stock,  to 
which  add  1  qt.  of  boiling  water,  and  any  vegetables  desired.  Boil 
3  hrs.    Season  and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 


176  SOUP 

CONSOMME  WITH  ALMOND  BALLS.— Blanch  and  chop 
or  grind  fine  24  almonds.  Mix  with  'them  stale  bread  crumbs.  Add 
%  teaspoon  of  salt  and  then  sufficient  white  of  egg  to  bind  the 
whole  together;  make  into  tiny  balls,  roll  them  in  the  remaining 
white  of  egg  and  drop  them  quickly  into  hot  oil,  do  not  ust*.  but- 
ter. If  you  have  no  oil,  use  lard  or  suet.  Shake  until  they  are 
golden  brown;  lift  with  a  skimmer,  turn  for  a  moment  on  to  soft 
brown  paper,  and  then  put  into  the  soup  tureen  and  pour  over  at 
once  nicely  seasoned  hot  stock. — ^Mrs.  Frank  Mullins,  Franklin.  111. 

CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP.— Scrape  the  corn  from  8  tender 
young  ears.  Boil  the  cobs  in  as  little  water  as  possible  for  30 
minutes.  Strain  oflf  the  liquid,  add  the  scraped  corn  and  boil  20 
minutes.  Heat  1  qt.  of  sweet  milk  to  the  scalding  ooint.  Rub  to- 
gether, 1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir  into 
the  hot  (milk,  add  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  54  teaspoon  white  pepper. 
Pour  over  the  corn,  stir  for  a  minute  or  two.  then  pour  into  a  hot 
tureen.  Serve  with  croutons — cut  bread. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennett, 
Bartlett,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— To  1  qt.  of  hot  sweet  milk,  add  2  sprigs 
parsley,  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion,  1  can  corn,  rubbed 
through  a  colander;  cook  10  minutes.  Thicken  with  1  tablespoon 
flour,  stirred  smooth  with  cold  milk,  add  to  the  thickening,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  dash  of  pepper,  and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Cook  3  min- 
utes, and  serve. — Mrs.  William  Myers,  Franklin,  111. 

CORN  CHOWDER — V^  pts.  of  sliced  new  potatoes,  2  slices 
of  salt  pork,  1  qt.  of  warm  water,  1  pt.  of  green  corn,  1  pt.  of  milk, 
l4  sliced  onion,  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  to  taste.  Fry  out  the  pork, 
then  cook  the  potatoes  in  it.  Put  the  potatoes  into  a  kettle  and 
add  the  water.  Have  ready  the  raw  corn  from  the  cob,  and  -hen 
add  the  milk  and  onion.  Cook  10  minutes. — Mrs.  D.  O.  Dooley, 
Bensen,  111. 

CORN  BISQUE. — 'Drain  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  corn.  Chop 
the  corn  very  fine,  put  it  over  the  fire  in  a  qt.  of  salted  water  and 
simmer  gently  for  an  hr.  Rub  through  a  colander,  return  to  the 
fire,  with  the  water,  add  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  when  melted,  2 
tablespoons  of  flour  rubbed  into  2  of  butter.  Stir  until  smooth  and 
pour  slowly  upon  a  pt.  of  heated  millc.     Season  with  salt  and  pour 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  177 

the  soup  gradually  upon  2  beaten  eggs.  Send  immediately  to  the 
table.—Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen  View,  111. 

CORN  AND  ONION  SOUP.— Let  1  can  of  corn,  3  pts.  of 
water  and  2  slices  of  onion  boil  until  the  corn  can  be  easily  passed 
through  a  colander.  Cream  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  cream 
together,  add  it  to  2^  cups  of  boiling  milk,  salt,  pepper  celery 
salt,  if  desired,  and  1  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Mash  the  corn  through 
the  colander  and  add  it  to  the  milk.  Let  all  cook  a  few  minutes, 
and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CHICAGO  CORN  SOUP.— Put  1  can  of  sweet  corn  into  a 
graniteware  pan  and  mash  thoroughly.  Then  rub  through  a  col- 
ander. Add  sufficient  nut-soup-stock  liquor  to  make  3  pts.  in  all. 
Add  a  litle  salt,  and  serve  hot. — ^^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

CONSOMME  WITH  MARROW  BALLS.— Have  ^  cup  of 

soft  bread  crumbs,  5^  teaspoon  of  clear  onion  juice,  1  saltspoon  of 
salt,  yi  cup  of  chopped  miarrow,  1  eg^,  2  qts.  of  stock,  a  dash  of 
pepper.  Mix  together  the  bread  crumbs  and  chopped  marrow. 
Season  with  salt,  clear  onion  Juice,  and  a  dash  of  pepper;  mix 
well,  and  add  gradually  the  yolk  of  an  tgg.  Make  this  into  small 
balls,  roll  them  quickly  in  the  white  of  the  tg^,  slightly  beaten; 
drop  them  into  boiling  water.  They  will  first  go  to  the  bottom  of 
the  saucepan,  but  in  a  imoment  will  come  to  the  surface.  As  soon 
as  they  float  (about  2  minutes)  lift  with  a  skimmer  and  put  at 
once  into  a  tureen;  carefully  pour  over  the  hot  stock. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

COURT  BOUILLON.— Wash  4  lbs.  of  fish;  clean  and  cut  it 
into  slices,  using  both  head  and  tail.  Put  1  tablespoon  sugar  into 
the  soup  kettle,  add  1  sliced  onion,  and  stir  until  the  onion  is 
browned,  then  add  3  qts.  of  cold  water,  and  1  saltspo-on  celery  salt, 
to  the  fish;  add  2  of  pepper,  1  carrot,  1  turnip,  1  tablespoon  of 
chopped  parsley;  bring  to  boiling  point,  skim  and  simmer  gently 
for  2  hrs.;  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  strain,  and  stand  aside  to  cool. 
There  is  rarely  ever  any  fat  to  take  from  the  surface,  hence  it  may 
be  strained  and  used  at  once.  This  stock  will  not  keep  like  that 
made  from  beef.  It  may  be  served  plain  or  with  croutons,  or  it 
may  have  added  at  the  last  moment  before  serving,  a  few  boiled 
shrimps,  a  few  bits  of  lobster,  crab,  or  oysters. — Mrs.  Joseph 
King,  Kenilworth,  111. 


178  SOUP 

BISQUE  OF  CRABS.— Place  1  doz.  live  crabs  in  cold  water, 
add  salt.  Hash  up  a  couple  of  carrots  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
onion,  and  fry  together  with  the  crabs,  shell  an  all,  with  little  but- 
ter in  a  saucepan,  add  a  little  thyme  and  a  bay  leaf,  season  with 
salt  and  1  pt.  of  white  stock.  'Cover  and  cook  for  15  minutes,  after 
which  take  out  the  crabs,  strain  the  broth  and  let  the  liquid  cool. 
When  cool,  pour  off  the  top.  Remove  the  shells  from  the  crabs, 
taking  out  the  lungs  and  the  small  legs  from  both  sides,  and  wash 
each  in  warm  water.  Drain  and  chop  them  with  about  ^  their 
quantity  of  cooked  rice.  Add  a  little  of  the  juice  in  which  they 
have  been  cooked,  and  drain  through  a  cheesecloth.  Add  a  little 
salt  and  red  pepper,  and  place  over  the  fire  just  previous  to  serv- 
ing, but  do  not  allow  it  to  come  to  a  boil. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

CREAM  SOUP  WITH  STOCK.— Scald  together  2  qts.  white 
stock,  well  seasoned.  1  qt.  of  milk,  and  add  3  tablespoons  of  flour, 
2  of  butter;  w^hen  all  have  been  stirred  to  a  smooth  paste,  cook 
well;  just  before  serving  add  1  cup  of  cream.  Grate  the  yolks  of 
4  hard-boiled  eggs  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup 
over  it. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CRECY  SOUP. — ^Cook  1  cup  of  carrots,  cut  in  small  dice,  and 

2  tablespoons  of  onion  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  When  a  nice 
brown  color,  add  1  cup  of  shredded  lettuce,  ^  teaspoon  of  coarsely 
chopped  marjoram,  ^  teaspoon  of  basil,  1  teaspoon  of  parsley,  and 

3  qts.  stock.  Next  add  1  cup  of  lentils  that  have  been  soaked  in 
water  over  night,  and  allow  the  mixture  to  cook  slowly  for  1^  hrs. 
Rub  through  a  puree  sieve,  re-heat  ,add  2  teaspoons  soft  salt  and  a 
dash  of  cayenne.  Shave  a  washed  lemon  in  wafer-like  slices,  put 
it  in  the  tu'reen,  and  pour  the  hot  soup  over  it.  Serve  at  once. — 
Mrs.  Roger  Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Save  the  water  in  which  cabbage,  cauliflow- 
er or  brussels  sprouts  has  been  boiled,  and  put  it  aside  for  soup 
Crecy.  Into  each  qt.  grate  2  medium-sized  carrots  that  have  been 
well  scraped  and  washed.  Stand  it  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove 
to  simmer  for  1  hr.,  then  add  a  teaspoon  of  grated  onion,  a  level 
teaspoon  of  salt,  a  saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter and  flour  rubbed  together;  bring  to  boiling  point;  add  a  pt.  of 
milk,  heat,  and  serve  at  once. — ^Mrs.  F.  C,  Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  179 

CREOLE  SOUP.— Put  1  can  of  tomatoes,  1  qt.  of  water  or 
vegetable  stock,  1  sliced  onion,  and  1  small  sliced  carrot,  and  1 
chopped  green  pepper  together  in  a  saucepan,  and  let  cook  for  54 
hr.,  then  rub  through  a  fine  strainer.  Return  the  strained  mix- 
ture to  the  double  boiler  and  put  in  2  scant  tablespoons  of  boiled 
rice,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  %  teaspoon  paprika,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar. 
Cream  2  tablespoons  of  butter  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  stir 
into  the  soup;  let  boil  up  once,  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn, 
Wilmette,  111. 

CUCUMBER  AND  GUMBO  SOUP.— Pare  and  slice  6  cu- 
cumbers, chop  4  oz.  of  gumbo  and  1  oz.  of  parsley  into  small 
pieces  and  stew  them  gently  ^  of  an  hr.,  stirring  occasionally. 
Pour  in  2  qts.  of  boiling  water;  add  6  oz.  of  bread  crumbs,  6  oz. 
of  sweet  jmilk,  and  let  the  whole  stew  2  hrs.  If  the  soup  is  too 
thin,  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  and  boil  10  minutes  longer. — Mrs.  C.  . 
J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

CREAM  OF  CUCUMBER  SOUP.— 3  cups  of  peeled  cucum- 
bers cut  in  small  pieces.  Parboil  for  10  minutes,  drain,  and  add 
them  to  4  cups  of  chicken  stock,  in  which  is  a  slice  on  onion. 
Cook  until  soft,  rub  through  a  sieve,  add  J4  cup  each  of  flour  and 
butter,  rubbed  together,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Strain  and 
serve. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Bensen,  111. 

CREAM  OF  CURRY.— Put  1  qt.  (or  4  cups)  of  milk  in  a 
double  boiler  and  1  onion  with  4  cloves  put  in  it,  and  when  hot 
thicken  with  1  tablespoon  of  thickening  flour,  rubbed  smooth 
with  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  add  2  tablespoons  of  boiled  rice,  1 
hard-boiled  tgg,  chopped  fine,  and  2  teaspoons  or  more  of  curry 
powder  or  paste.  Remove  the  onion  and  serve  with  croutons.  1 
tablespoons  of  chopped  chives  or  pimentos  is  an  addition  to  the 
soup. — Mrs.  Frank  MuUins,  Franklin,  111. 

DUCHESS  SOUP.— Cook  2  slices  of  carrots,  and  onion,  or 
vegetables  in  some  of  butter  3  minutes,  add  1  qt.  of  stock  and  2 
blades  of  mace;  simmer  15  minutes,  strain  into  white  sauce  made  of 
butter,  l4  cup  of  flour  and  2  cups  of  milk.  Season,  add  ^4  cup 
grated  cheese. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

FRIARS'  DUCK  SOUP.— Have  some  good,  clear  consomme, 
well  seasoned  and  boiling,  beat  4  yolks  of  eggs  with  1  pt.  cream, 


180  SOUP 

pass  the  custard  through  a  muslin  strainer  5  minutes  before  serv- 
ing, add  the  custard  to  the  consomme.  Do  not  let  it  boil.  Cut  the 
breast  of  chicken  into  tiny  strips  (as  the  vegetables  for  a  julienne 
soup),  and  add  to  the  soup,  and  serve. — Mrs.  Frank  Ferguson, 
Franklin,  111. 

EEL  SOUP. — Heat  dripping,  hissing  hot,  and  fry  1  sliced  onion 
in  it.  Now  put  in  2  lbs.  of  eels,  cleaned,  and  cut  into  inch  lengths, 
wiped  dry,  and  fry  on  both  sides  to  a  light  brown.  Turn  all  into 
a  covered  saucepan,  pour  in  3  pts.  of  cold  water,  and  cook  slowly 
for  an  hr.  Season  with  a  pinch  of  mace,  a  larger  of  cayenne,  salt 
to  taste,  and  1  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley.  Stir  in  2  tablespoons 
of  butter,  cooked  smooth,  with  1  of  flour;  simmer  3  minutes,  put 
in  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

EGG  CHOWDER.— Fry  2  or  3  slices  of  salt  pork  till  quite 
brown,  then  add  4  or  5  potatoes,  sliced,  and  hot  water  to  cover. 
When  potatoes  are  done  add  1  pt.  hot  milk  and  slice  in  5  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Let  boil  up  once.  Add  a  generous  lump  of  butter, 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve  at  once. — ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Can- 
thorne,  Wilmette,  111. 

EGG  SOUP.— ^Put  4  tablespoons  of  rice  in  1  qt.  of  stock; 
cover  and  let  simmer  gently  for  20  minutes;  press  it  through  a 
sieve  and  return  to  the  kettle.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  2  eggs,  add 
to  them  a  little  of  the  hot  soup;  turn  this  into  the  kettle;  stir  for 
a  moment,  until  it  reaches  almost  the  boiling  point.  Do  not  let 
it  boil,  or  it  will  curdle.  Take  it  from  the  fire;  add  Yz  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  1  saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  C.  E. 
Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

EMERGENCY  SOUP.— Put  Yz  teaspoon  of  celery  salt  in  1 
cup  of  hot  water,  boil  10  minutes,  add  1  pt.  of  milk,  small  lump  of 
butter  and  thicken  a  little.  Serve  with  croutons. — Mabel  Sturte- 
vant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ENGLISH  BEEF  SOUP.— Cut  beef  in  small  pieces,  2  onions, 
sliced,  and  fried  in  beef  fat  until  brown,  3  tablespoons  of  flour, 
cook  brown,  with  onions.  Brown  a  little  meat;  add  water  and 
simmer  3  hrs.;  add  a  bay  leaf,  strain,  and  add  a  few  slices  of  onion. 
—Mrs.  C.  E.  Jefferson,  505  S.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         181 

FARMERS'  CHOWDER.— Parboil  and  slice  6  fine  potatoes; 
fry  Yi  lb.  of  salt  pork,  chopped,  and  when  it  begins  to  crisp  add 
a  minced  onion,  and  cook  to  a  light  brown.  Pack  potatoes,  pork 
and  onion  in  a  soup  kettle,  sprinkling  each  layer  with,  pepper  and 
minced  parsley.  Add  the  hot  fat;  cover  with  a  pt.  of  boiling  water 
and  simmer  30  minutes.  Turn  into  a  colander  and  drain  the  liquor 
back  into  the  kettle.  Have  ready  a  pt.  of  hot  milk,  into  whiclT 
has  been  stirred  a  tablespoon  of  butter  rolled  in  flour;  add  to  the 
liquor,  cook  1  minute,  return  the  potatoes  to  the  kettle,  and  serve. 
—Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

FISH  SOUP.— Cjook  1  lb.  of  any  boiled  fisji  in  boiling  salted 
water,  until  it  flakes  easily.  Drain  it,  remove  the  skin  and  bones, 
and  rub  through  a  coarse  strainer.  Cook  1  sliced  onion  with  1  qt. 
of  imilk  10  minutes,  remove  the  onion,  and  thicken  the  milk  with 
2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  cooked  together. 
Add  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  saltspoon  of  pepper  and  the  fish.  Let 
it  boil  up  once,  and  serve. — ^Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111, 

VARIATION  I.— Boil  slowly  2  lbs.  of  any  large  fresh  fish  for  IS 
minutes,  take  up  the  fish,  remove  skin  and  bones  and  pick  the  fish 
into  small  pieces.  Put  1  qt.  of  milk  on  to  boil  with  1  teaspoon  of 
chopped  parsley,  a  small  onion  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Put  in  the  fish. 
Mix  1  tablespoon  of  flour  with  1  cup  of  cream  and  pour  into  the 
boiling  soup.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  2  well-beaten 
eggs  in  the  soup  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  in,  stirring  it  all  the 
time. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  HI. 

VARIATION  II.— Clean  and  trim  any  kind  of  fish.  Boil  the  fish 
with  a  head  of  celery,  a  small  quantity  of  parsley,  2  onions,  a  bay 
leaf  and  5  cloves.  Use  water  and  cover  the  saucepan.  When  the 
contents  have  boiled  1  hr.,  add  enough  water  to  make  the  soup. 
Strain  and  stir  in  a  cup  of  cream.  Season  with  salt  and  white 
pepper.  Lay  in  the  tureen  some  eggs,  fried  in  butter;  allow  1  for 
each  person.  Pour  the  soup  over  and  serve  with  toasted  bread.— 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka.  111. 

CREAM  OF  FISH  SOUP.— Wash  1  lb.  of  any  kind  of  fish; 
put  it  into  a  saucepan;  add  1  bay  leaf,  1  sprig  of  parsley  and  1 
small  onion.  Cover  with  a  pt.  of  cold  water,  bring  quickly  to 
boiling  point,  skim,  let  simmer  IS  minutes,  strain.    Take  fish  care- 


182  SOUP 

fully  from  colander,  remove  fhe  skin  and  bone,  and  mash  with 
the  bakespoon,  adding  gradually  the  water.  Put  1  qt.  of  milk  over 
the  fire  in  a  double  boiler.  Rub  1  tablespoon  butter  and  2  of  flour  to- 
gether; add  a  little  of  the  hot  milk;  when  smooth,  turn  it  into  the 
double  boiler,  and  cook  until  you  have  a  smooth,  creamlike  mix- 
ture. To  this  add  gradually  the  fish,  the  salt  and  pepper,  to  taste, 
and  when  thoroughly  heated,  serve. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn,  Wil- 
mette,  111. 

FISH  CHOWDER.— Prepare  1  lb.  of  fish,  3  medium-sized 
potatoes,  1  pt.  of  stewed  tomatoes,  1  tablespoon  of  powdered 
thyme,  1  pt.  of  milk,  1  pt.  of  water,  1  large  onion,  1  saltspoon  of 
celery  seed,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Wash  the 
fish;  cut  it  into  dice.  Chop  the  onion.  Put  in  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  a  layer  of  fish,  then  tomatoes,  a 
sprinkling  of  onion,  thyme,  salt,  pepper  and  celery  seed,  and  so 
continue  until  the  materials  are  used,  having  the  last  layer  pota- 
toes; add  the  water.  Cove?  the  kettle  closely,  and  cook  without 
stirring,  over  a  moderate  fire  for  20  minutes.  In  the  meantime, 
heat  the  .milk  in  a  double  boiler;  add  it  quickly,  and  serve.  The 
tomatoes  may  be  omitted. — ^Mrs.  Ernest  D.  Dean,  Glen  View,  111. 

FISH  A  LA  LUCULLUS  (a  Lenten  Soup).— Fry  1  sliced  on- 
ion till  it  turns  yellow;  add  3  or  4  lbs.  of  fish,  2  carrots,  2  sliced 
onions,  4  stalks  of  parsley,  a  bay  leaf,  1  clove,  6  peppercorns,  and 
salt;  cover  the  whole  with  cold  water;  set  on  a  good  fire  and  boil 
gently  for  about  2  hrs.  If  the  water  boils  away,  add  more  hot 
water;  strain  and  serve. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

FIVE-MINUTE  SOUP.— Cut  some  stale  slices  of  bread  into 
small  dice.  Heat  some  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  when  hot  fry 
the  diced  bread  in  this,  and  when  nearly  browned  add  hot  milk, 
according  to  the  quantity  of  bread  Season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  serve  as  soon  as  it  has  boiled  up  once. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Daniels, 
Arlington  Heights,  111. 

FLORENTINE  SOUP.— Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  put  into  it  54  cup  of  finely  chopped  onions,  and  stir  over 
a  moderate  heat  about  5  minutes,  and  then  add  2  full  cups  of  very 
thinly  sliced  turnips,  and  stir  for  another  5  minute.*;,  and  add  2 
tablespoons  of  flour  and  gradually  add  2  pts.  of  boiled  milk,  mix^ 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  183 

ing  all  well  together;  watch  it  till  it  boils  and  then  let  simmer 
gently,  stirring  frequently  'during  20  minutes  or  half  hr.,  until 
the  onions  are  quite  soft.  Then  add  2  more  cups  of  milk,  and 
when  boiling  add  1  cup  of  tomatoes,  puree  (either  canned  tomato 
soup  or  canned  tomatoes),  or  ly^  cups  of  sliced  fresh  tomatoes, 
using  a  pinch  of  soda  to  prevent  curdling.  Now  press  the  con- 
tents of  the  saucepan  through  a  fine  sieve,  add  a  heaping  teaspoon 
of  butter,  re-heat,  and  serve  with  croutons  and  1  tablespoon  of 
whipped  cream. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Daniels,  Arlington  Heights,  111. 

GERMAN  GRUEL  SOUP.— Put  4  tablespoons  flour  in  a 
baking  pan  in  the  oven,  watching  and  stirring  it  carefully  until  it 
is  golden  brown.     While  this  is  browning,  put  into  the  saucepan 

1  pt.  of  water  and  a  sliced  onion.  By  the  time  the  flour  has  nicely 
browned  the  onion  will  be  quite  soft.  Press  it  through  a  colander; 
add  the  water  gradually  to  the  flour,  mixing  all  the  while.  Cook 
until  smooth  and  thick.  Put  1  qt.  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler; 
when  hot,  add  it  gradually  to  the  flour  mixture;  cook  and  stir 
for  5  minutes;  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  pepper  and  a 
dash  of  cayenne,  and  pour  while  hot  into  the  tureen  over  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  the  2  eggs.  Add  at  the  very  last  moment  a  table- 
spoon of  butter,  cut  into  bits. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  lU- 

FRUIT  SOUP.— To  Yz  gal.  boiling  water  add  ^  lb.  seedless 
raisins,  ys  lb.  prunes,  stones  removed,  ^  lb.  dried  apples,  2  table- 
spoons sage,  1  cup  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon;  cook  1  hr. — 
Mrs.  C.  Buttercup,  Bensen,  111. 

GIBLET  SOUP — Put  giblets  from  2  or  3  fowls  in  2  qts.  of 
water  and  boil  gently  till  reduced  to  1  qt.  (about  2  hrs.);  take  out 
the  giblets,  cut  off  the  tough  parts  and  chop  the  remainder.  Re- 
turn to  the  liquor  and  add  1  qt.  of  stock.  Cook  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  and  2  of  flour  until  brown,  and  add  to  the  soup.  Add  salt, 
pepper  and  onion,  if  desired. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Save  2  sets  of  giblets  from  a  pair  of  chick- 
ens with  the  rougher  pieces,  like  the  neck  and  tips  of  wing.  Scald 
and  skin  the  feet;  crack  them  into  several  pieces.  Put  all  into  a 
soup  kettle;  cover  with  2  qts.  of  cold  water  and  simmer  gently  for 

2  hrs.;  then  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  saltspoon  of  pepper. 
Strain  the  soup  and  remove  the  giblets;  cut  them  into  neat  pieces; 


184  SOUP 

return  them  to  the  soup;  add  a  teaspoon  of  grated  onion  juice, 
and  Yi  teaspoon  of  kitchen  bouquet.  Cut  2  hard-boiled  eggs  and 
lemon  into  thin  slices,  put  them  into  the  tureen;  pour  over  the 
soup,  and  serve  at  once.  Bay  leaf  and  celery  may  be  added  to  the 
stock,  if  desired. — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — ^Cut  the  giblets  into  small  pieces  and  cook 
in  1  pt.  of  water  until  they  are  tender;  then  add  J^  onion,  a  small 
bunch  of  soup  heribs,  2  or  3  cloves,  and  a  few  black  peppercorns, 
set  3  pts.  of  highly  seasoned  stock  over  the  fire  and  heat.  Stir 
2  dessertspoons  of  flour  into  a  little  of  the  stock  until  it  is  like 
cream  in  consistency;  pour  it  into  the  rest  of  the  stock  and  stir 
thoroughly;  then  leave  it  to  thicken  on  the  fire.  Add,  also,  1  glass 
of  white  wine,  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  pinch  or  two  of  cay- 
enne, rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  stock,  and  salt  to  taste.  Now  let 
the  seasoned  stock  boil  and  skim;  strain  into  it  the  giblet  liquor, 
also  putting  into  it  all  the  good  pieces  of  the  giblets.  Serve  hot. — 
Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

GLASGOW  BROTH.— 1  qt.  of  strong  mutton  stock,  from 
which  every  particle  of  fat  has  been  removed.  The  liquor  in  which 
a  leg  of  mutton  has  been  boiled  will  do  well  for  this  purpose.  Boil 
it  down  for  an  hr.  before  making  the  broth,  as  it  should  be  strong. 
1  cup  of  barley  that  has  been  soaked  in  tepid  water  for  3  hrs.  Cut 
up  1  large  carrot,  1  turnip,  2  onions,  4  stalks  of  celery,  J/^  cup  of 
green  peas,  and  the  same  of  string  beans,  parsley  and  4  or  5  leek 
tops,  and  parboil  them  for  10  minutes.  Drain  and  put  over  the 
fire  in  the  stock.  Simmer  slowly  for  3  hrs.  Have  ready  a  good 
white  roux  made  by  heating  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a 
pan  and  stirring  into  it  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Add  a  few  spoons 
of  the  soup  to  thin  it,  and  stir  into  the  broth.  Boil  1  minute,  and 
serve. — Mrs.  I^.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

GUMBO  SOUP.— Prepare  1  chicken,  J^  qt.  cold  water,  SO 
oysters,  1  bay  leaf,  1  onion,  Yz  lb.  ham,  3  tablespoons  butter,  salt 
and  cayenne  pepper.  Cut  the  chicken  in  pieces  as  for  fricasse. 
Dredge  the  pieces  with  flour  and  brown  them  in  butter.  Put  them 
in  a  soup  kettle  with  the  ham.  Add  the  bay  leaf  and  onion,  cut 
into  small  pieces,  bring  the  mixture  to  a  boil,  carefully  skimming 
at  first.    Boil  for  2  hrs.,  then  add  sliced  okras,  simmer  1  hr.  longer. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  185 

Drain  the  oysters,  add  them  to  the  soup,  put  in  salt  and  pepper, 
boil  2  minutes,  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Cleveland,  Bartlett,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— ^Disjoint  1  fowl,  cut  4  oz.  ham  in  pieces  and 
saute  them  in  3  tablespoons  of  lard  to  a  golden  brown;  re- 
imove  the  chicken  to  a  stew-pan  (iron  must  not  be  used)  and  saute 
onion  and  1  qt.  of  Greek  okra-pods,  cut  in  pieces;  then  add  ^  cup 
flour  and,  when  well  blended  with  the  fat,  of  which  more  may  be 
needed,  add  gradually  a  qt.  of  water,  3  or  4  tomatoes,  skins  re- 
moved, red  pepper,  J^  'bay  leaf,  2  sprigs  of  thyme,  and  salt,  let 
simmer,  covered,  very  slowly  until  the  fowl  is  cooked,  adding 
more  water,  if  needed,  also  salt.  In  serving,  add  a  spoonful  of 
boiled  rice  to  each  plate. — ^^Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S:  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — This  delicious  soup  may  be  made  with 
oysters,  shrimps,  or  chicken.  Brown  1  small  onion  in  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  butter.  Add  1  qt.  of  sliced  okra,  and  fry  it  well,  stir- 
ring all  the  time  to  prevent  burning.  Now  add  J^  a  gal.  of  hot 
water  and  let  it  cook  until  simmered  down  to  1  qt.  Add  3  ripe 
tomatoes  and  the  chicken,  oysters,  or  shrimps.  If  chicken  is 
used  it  must  have  been  previously  stewed  tender,  in  which  case 
use  the  broth  instead  of  the  hot  water.  Season  to  taste  with  salt 
and  cayenne,  and  serve  with  a  tablespoon  of  rice  for  each  soup- 
plate. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Westinghous,  Mayfair,  111. 

GRAHAM  SOUP. — Chop  3  onions,  3  carrots,  4  small  turnips,  1 
head  celery,  very  fine,  and  set  them  over  the  fire  with  a  little  more 
than  3  qts.  of  water.  Simmer  gently  for  5^  hr.,  add  1  small  chopped 
cabbage,  parboiled.  In  15  minutes  put  in  1  pt.  stewed  tomatoes 
and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  and  boil  for  20  minutes  longer.  Put 
through  a  colander;  return  the  soup  to  the  fire;  stir  in  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  J^  cup  of  milk,  thickened  with  corn 
starch;  let  it  boil  up,  and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

GUILEMME  SOUP.— Cook  ^  cup  each  of  carrot  and  turnip, 
cut  in  thin  strips,  1^  inches  long,  until  tender.  Add  1  qt.  of  stock, 
2  tablespoons  each  cooked  peas  and  string  beans,  cut  in  strips. — 
Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Bensen,  111. 

BISQUE  OF  HALIBUT  OR  COD.— Boil  a  lb.  of  firm,  fresh 
fish  in  2  waters,  and  mince  it  fine,  freeing  it  from  all  bits  of  skin  or 


186  SOUP 

bone.  Have  ready  a  qt.  of  white  stock,  stir  the  fish  into  it  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  spoon  of  minced  parsley.  Cook  to- 
gether 2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  of  flour,  pour  upon  this  a  cup 
of  milk,  stir  until  it  thickens,  and  put  with  the  fish  and  stock. 
Boil  up  once  and  put  into  the  tureen.  Add  ^  cup  of  powdered 
cracker  crumbs,  just  before  the  soup  is  mixed  with  milk. — Mrs. 
Frank  MuUins,  Franklin,  111. 

HAM  AND  VEGETABLE  SOUP.—After  all  the  good  meat 
has  been  sliced  off  the  ham,  put  the  bone  on  to  boil  in  plenty  of 
water,  and  when  the  meat  which  adheres  to  it  begins  to  get  ten- 
der add  3  or  4  small  carrots,  cut  fine,  J^  head  tender  cabbage,  cut 
fine,  and  a  few  potatoes,  sliced;  cook  until  vegetables  are  tender. — 
Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

HARE  SOUP.— Into  1  qt.  of  water,  or  weak  stock,  if  pre- 
ferred, throw  the  remains  of  1  hare  roasted  the  previous  day,  1 
Bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  1  stalk  of  celery  and  a  sprig  or  2  of  parsley, 
broken  in  bits.  Simmer  gently  until  the  bones  are  nearly  clear  of 
the  meat,  then  strain  and  thicken  with  flour,  in  which  a  little  but- 
ter may  or  may  not,  as  preferred,  be  rubbed.  Now  rub  all  the  meat 
through  a  fine  sieve  and  add  it  to  the  soup.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  add  J4  glass  of  port  wine. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

MOCK  HARE  SOUP.— Prepare  3  pts.  of  water,  ^  lb.  lentils 
and  Haricot  beans,  %  lb.  of  mushrooms,  1  onion,  1  bunch  of  savory 
herbs,  1  saltspoon  celery  salt,  J^  oz.  of  butter,  ^  oz.  flour,  1  table- 
spoon tomato  sauce,  1  tablespoon  red  currant  jelly.  Soak  beans 
over  night,  boil  them  with  vegetables,  herbs,  and  spices,  tied  in  a 
muslin  bag;  when  beans  are  quite  soft,"  pass  soup  through  a  wire 
sieve,  thicken  with  flour,  and  add  tomato  sauce,  and  red  currant 
jelly. — Mrs.  C.  Buttercup,  Bensen,  111. 

HEALTH  SOUP. — Cut  4  large  onions  into  small  pieces  and 
put  into  a  granite  kettle  with  ^  cup  of  butter.  Toss  over  the  fire 
for  a  few  minutes.  Add  2  stalks  of  celery,  cut  into  small  pieces 
and  fine-shredded  head  lettuce;  stir  over  the  fire  for  20  miinutes, 
then  put  in  1  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice,  1  pt.  of  boiling  milk,  and  1  of 
boiling  water.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  simmer  by 
the  side  of  the  fire  for  an  hr.     When  done  add  1  cup  of  cream  and 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  ,      187 

1  Q.^^,  well-Stirred.     Remove  from  the  fire,  and  serve. — ^Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

HEILBRON  SOUP.— Take  3  qts.  of  water  in  which  vegeta- 
bles have  been  boiled  (preferably  onion  or  leeks),  and  let  simmer. 
In  another  enameled  pan  put  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  when  melted, 
stir  in  slowly  with  a  wooden  spoon  J/^  cup  of  barley,  adding  a  little 
at  a  time,  until  butter  is  well  "taken  up."  Let  it  cook  for  5  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly.  Then  add  (a  ladle  at  a  time)  6  or  8 
ladles  of  the  hot  stock,  putting  in  this  amount  during  10  minutes 
of  stirring.  Add  J^  the  remaining  stock,  and  salt,  pepper,  and 
some  nutmeg  and  let  simmer  another  ^  hr.  Peel  ^  lb.  mush- 
rooms, cut  in  4  or  6  pieces  each;  fry  them  in  butter  for  5  minutes, 
and  add  to  soup  10  minutes  before  serving,  and  season  afresh. — 
Mrs.  Roger  Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

HERB  POWDER  FOR  SOUP.— It  is  not  always  possible  to 
obtain  fresh  herbs,  so  to  o-btain  a  flavoring  for  soups,  procure 
them  in  season,  fresh,  just  before  they  begin  to  flower.  Dry 
them  in  a  warm  oven,  pound  and  pass  through  a  wire  sieve.  Keep 
the  powder  in  a  small  bottle,  stopped  closely,  and  keep  dry.  The 
proportions  are  as  follows:  2  oz.  each  of  sweet  marjoram,  winter 
savory,  dried  parsley,  thyme,  Yz  oz.  of  bay  leaves,  J4  oz.  celery 
seed,  1  oz.  sweet  basil  and  ^  oz.  lemon  peel. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

SOUP  HOTCH-POTCH.— Prepare  3  oz.  pearl  barley,  1  small 
cabbage,  2  carrots,  2  onions,  1  small  turnip,  parsley  and  herbs,  2 
oz.  butter,  3  qts.  of  water,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  the  barley 
on  the  fire  in  the  water,  scrape  1  of  the  carrots  and  put  it  aside 
in  a  little  of  the  water.  Chop  all  the  rest  of  the  vegetables  fine, 
and  when  the  water  boils  put  them  in  with  the  butter  and  season- 
ing. There  should  be  enough  vegetables  to  make  the  soup  thick. 
Boil  the  soup  for  2  hrs.,  then  put  in  the  scraped  carrot  and  boil 
another  J^  hr.     Serves  8. — Mrs.  Ernest  D.  Dean,  Glen  View,  111. 

HUNGARIAN  SOUP.— Put  1  cup  of  German  lentils  in  a 
saucepan  with  2  cups  of  cold  water  or  vegetable  stock,  and  let  boil 
for  an  hr.  If  the  water  is  absorbed  before  the  lentils  are  tender, 
add  a  little  more.  At  the  end  of  the  hr.  pour  over  them  6  cups 
of  hot  water  or  stock.     Put  1  tablespoon  of  buttej*  in  a  frying-pan, 


188  SOUP 

and  when  melted  add  1  small  onion,  chopped  fine,  and  1  table- 
spoon of  flour  and  1  clove  of  garlic.  When  browned  add  this  to 
the  soup,  and  at  the  same  time  put  in  J^  cup  of  diced  potatoes. 
Let  simmer  gently  for  J/^  an  hr.,  then  press  through  a  sieve,  return 
to  the  fire,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  1  tablespoon 
of  lemon  juice  or  reduced  vinegar  before  serving. — Mrs.  Roger 
Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

SOUP  FOR  INVALID.— Cut  in  small  pieces  1  lb.  of  beef  or 
mutton,  or  a  part  of  both;  boil  gently  in  2  qts.  of  water;  and  skim, 
and  when  reduced  to  a  pt.  strain  it  and  season  with  a  little  salt, 
and  take  a  teacup  at  a  time. — Mrs.  Frank  Cress,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

JULIENNE  SOUP.— Use  1  pt.  of  mixed  vegetables.  Cut  the 
celery  into  thin  slices,  the  turnip  into  J^-^nch  dice,  and  the  carrot 
into  K  by  /^  strips  or  straw,  using  only  the  orange  part.  Or  cut 
carrot  and  turnip  into  J^-inoh  slices,  and  then  into  fancy  -shapes 
with  small  vegetable  cutters.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  add  J4  a 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  Y^  saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  cook  until  soft, 
but  not  long  enough  to  destroy  their  shapes.  Let  a  qt.  of  stock 
come  to  a  boil;  add  the  vegetables,  the  water  and  more  salt,  if 
necessary.  Serve  hot.  In  spring  and  summer  use  asparagus,  peas, 
and  string  beans.  It  is  quite  important  that  the  vegetables  should 
be  small  and  of  uniform  thicknesis,  ibut  if  any  require  a  longer 
time  to  cook,  they  should  be  cut  into  smaller  pieces. — Mrs.  Chris. 
Worthington,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Wash  and  dry  3  carrots,  3  turnips,  the 
white  part  of  a  'head  of  celery,  3  onions,  and  3  leeks;  and  cut  into 
thin  shreds  1  inch  in  length.  Place  the  shreds  in  a  stew-pan  with 
2  tablespoons  of  'butter  and  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  stir  them  over  a 
slow  fire  until  slightly  browned.  Pour  over  them  3  qts.  of  clear 
stock  and  simmer  gently  for  an  hr.,  or  until  the  vegetables  are 
tender.  Remove  the  scum  and  fat,  and  J/^  'hr.  before  the  soup  is 
done  add  2  lumps  of  sugar,  2  pinches  each  of  salt  and  pepper,  2 
ca'bbage  leaves,  lettuce,  12  leaves  of  parsley,  cut  like  other  vegeta- 
bles after  being  immersed  in  boiling  water  for  a  minutes.  Boil  J^  hr. 
longer,  skim  carefully,  and  serve  with  bread  fried  in  dice  shape. — 
Mrs.  E.  -D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK    '     189 

KLONDIKE  SOUP.— The  ingredients  for  this  soup  are:  1  qt. 
of  sweet  milk;  ^  can  of  corn,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  J^  teaspoon  of 
pepper,  butter  the  size  of  1  egg,  1  cup  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut 
fine  (if  convenient).  Boil  up  once,  pour  over  toasted  bread  dice, 
and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennett,  Bartlett,  111. 

LEEK  SOUP.— Cut  1  bunch  of  fresh  leeks  in  ^-inch 
rings;  cut  1  hard-^boiled  egg  into  rings.  Place  the  leeks  and  3 
medium-sized  potatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  in  a  chafing  dish  or  stew- 
pan,  cover  well  with  water,  and  cook  20  minutes.  Higlily  season 
with  salt  and  white  pepper.  Next  add  1%  pts.  milk,  and  remove 
when  almost  to  the  iboiling  point.  Put  in  the  butter,  size  of  a  wal- 
nut, and  sliced  egg  just  previous  to  serving. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy, 
Glen  View,  111. 

CREAM  OF  LEEKS.— Wash  1  scant  pt.  of  young  leeks  and 
cut  them  in  small  pieces.  iMelt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  the  soup 
pot,  add  the  leeks,  and  stir  over  a  moderate  fire;  cook  5  minutes, 
but  do  not  brown  the  leeks  or  butter;  when  bright  green  and  wilt- 
ed, add  2  qts.  of  stock,  }/^  cup  of  rice,  well  wasihed,  1  teaspoon 
of  chopped  parsley.  2  cloves,  and  1  bay  leaf.  Simmer  very  slowly 
for  1  hr.  and  rub  through  a  puree  sieve,  moistening  with  more  of 
the  broth,  if  necessary.  Return  to  the  fire,  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  a  dash  of  cayenne,  and  just  before  serving,  add  1  pt.  of  rich, 
boiling  hot  milk.  Pour  over  24  tiny  croutons,  and  serve. — Mrs. 
Castle  Hopkins,  Winnetka,  111. 

SCOTCH  LEEK  SOUP.— Strain  2  qts.  of  mutton  broth;  add 
to  it  12  nice  leeks,  chopped  fine,  white  and  green  together,  and  l4 
pt.  of  rolled  oats;  simmer  for  1  hr.;  press  the  whole  through  a  fine 
sieve;  return  it  to  the  fire;  add  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt,  and 
pour  it  into  the  tureen  over  the  well-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. — 
Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

LENTIL  SOUP.— Put  4  carrots,  2  sliced  onions,  1  chopped 
lettuce  head,  2  oz.  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  and  let  them  simmer 
5  minutes:  add  2  pts.  of  lentils  (which  have  been  soaked  in  cold 
water  for  2  hrs.\  and  a  pt.  of  stock,  stew  gently  for  ]4  hr.  Fill  up 
with  1%  qts.  of  stock,  and  add  the  crumbs  of  2  French  rolls. 
When  these  are  well  soaked,  rut)  all  through  a  wire  sieve  or  tammy 
cloth.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt,  boil  up  once  more, 
and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 


190  SOUP 

VARIATION  I.— Prepare  J^  pt.  of  lentils,  1  small  onion,  1 
sprig  of  parsley,  1  bay  leaf,  J^  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  qt.  of  stock  or 
\y2  qts.  of  water,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  table- 
spoon of  flour,  1  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Wash  the  lentils;  cover 
with  cold  water,  and  soak  over  night.  In  the  morning,  drain;  add 
the  stock  and  a  pt.  of  water,  the  bay  leaf,  thyme,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  simmer  until  the  lentils  are  tender  (about  2  hrs.);  press 
through  a  colander,  then  through  a  sieve;  return  to  the  kettle. 
Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together;  add  to  the  soup;  stir  until 
boiling;  add  the  onion,  grated.  Turn  this  into  the  soup  tureen; 
sprinkle  over  the  chopped  parsley,  and  serve  with'xroutons. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAM  OF  LENTIL  SOUP.— Wash  2  cups  of  Egyptian  len- 
tils, then  let  them  soak  in  2  qts.  of  water  for  12  hrs.  or  more,  leave 
them  in  this  same  water,  and  simmer  gently  over  a  slow  fire.     Put 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  melted  add  to  it 

2  large  sliced  onions,  2  carrots  and  1  turnip,  diced,  and  fry  until 
a  delicate  brown;  add  these  to  the  lentils,  and  let  cook  slowly  for 
about  2  hrs.  Press  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  fire,  add  2  cups 
of  milk,  and  just  before  serving,  1  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream, 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  Allan  George,  Park  Ridge, 
111. 

VARIATION  I.— Soak  2  cups  of  lentils  in  cold  water  for  sev- 
eral hrs.,  then  place  in  a  granite  kettle,  over  a  slow  fire,  with  2  qts. 
of  water,  1  carrot,  1  onion,  3  whole  peppers,  a  bunch  of  parsley, 
and  salt  to  taste.  Cook  for  1  hr.  and  rub  through  a  sieve;  put 
some  buttered  toast  in  the  tureen,  pour  over  the  puree,  and  serve. 
— Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

RED-LENTIL  SOUP.— Soak  2  cups  of  Egyptian  lentils  in 
water  for  8  or  10  hrs.,  then  drain,  and  shake  dry.  Put  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  when  melted  add  ^  of  the 
lentils,  and  stir  well  with  a  flat-ended  wooden  spoon,  and  after 
stirring  a  few  moments,  add  the  remainder.  Pour  on  6  cups  of 
cooled  water,  in  which  leeks  or  onions  have  boiled,  and  let  sim- 
mer for  an  hr.,  or  until  the  lentils  are  tender;  press  through  a  sieve 
and  return  to  the  fire  to  re-heat.  Smooth  1  teaspoon  of  flour  with 
1  teaspoon  of  butter,  and  add  to  the  soup,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.     Instead  of  the  flour  and  butter,  1 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         191 

well-<beaten  eg^  .may  be  vigorously  stirred  into  the  soup  after  re- 
moving it  from  the  fire.  If  Egyptian  lentils  cannot  ibe  obtained, 
canned  or  dried  red  kidney  beans  may  bt  substituted. — Mrs.  Jos- 
eph King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

LENTEN  SOUP.— Soak  1  qt.  of  black  beans  12  hrs.  Boil 
them  in  3  pts.  of  water  for  2  hrs.,  or  until  they  are  tender;  then 
strain  tliem  through  a  fine  wire  sieve.  Replace  on  the  stove  and 
boil  for  10  minutes  more,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 
Now  pour  into  a  warm  tureen  and  add  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  into 
dice,  1  lemon,  thinly  sliced,  and  J^  pt.  of  sherry.  Serve  at  once. — 
Mrs.  Frank  Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

LETTUCE  SOUP.— Chop  1  large  head  of  lettuce  and  saute 
in  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  with  J^  teaspoon  sugar  and  ^2  teaspoon 
of  vinegar;  add  the  2  teaspoons  of  flour,  and,  when  blended  with  the 
butter,  5  cups  of  broth  or  water,  gradually,  season  with  1  teaspoon 
salt,  54  oi  pepper;  when  the  lettuce  is  tender,  add  2  yolks,  beaten 
and  diluted  with  5^  cup  cream;  let  thicken  without  boiling.  Serve 
with  croutons. — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

CREAM  OF  LETTUCE  SOUP.— Wash  4  small  heads  of  let- 
tuce, drain,  chop;  place  them  in  a  granite  kettle  with  J^  cup  of 
butter  and  cook  for  4  or  5  minutes,  stirring  lightly.  Add  2  qts.  of 
water,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  and  yz  cup 
of  rice.  Cover  the  kettle,  and  cook  for  40  minutes,  then  drain. 
Clean  the  kettle,  pour  the  soup  into  it  again,  and  let  it  come  to  the 
boiling  point.  Add  1  pt.  of  cream;  stir  up,  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jefifries,  Winnetka,  111. 

LOBSTER  SOUP  OR  BISQUE  OF  LOBSTER.— 2  lbs.  of 
lobster,  1  qt.  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour  or 
corn  starch,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  white  pepper,  J4  saltspoon 
cayenne  pepper,  1  pt.  of  water.  Remove  the  meat  of  the  lobster 
from  the  shell  and  cut  the  tender  pieces  into  J4-iii<^h  dice.  Put 
the  ends  of  the  claw  meat  and  any  other  tough,  hard  parts,  with 
the  bones  of  the  body,  into  1  pt.  of  cold  water,  and  boil  20  minutes, 
adding  more  water  as  it  'boils  away.  Put  the  coral  on  a  piece  of 
paper,  and  dry  it  in  the  oven.  Boil  1  qt.  of  milk,  and  thicken  it 
with  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  of  flour  or  cornstarch.  Boil  10 
minutes.     Strain  the  water  from  the  bones  and  add  it  to  the  milk. 


192  SOUP 

Add  the  salt  and  pepper,  using  more,  if  high  seasoning  is  desired. 
Rub  the  dried  coral  through  a  strainer,  using  enough  to  give  the 
soup  a  bright,  pink  color.  Put  the  green  fat  and  lobster  dice  into 
the  tureen,  and  strain  the  boiling  soup  over  them.  Serve  immedi- 
ately. If  you  do  not  like  so  much  of  the  lobster  prepare  in  follow- 
ing manner:  Cut  only  Yz  of  the  meat  into  dice;  chop  the  remainder, 
and  pound  it  to  a  fine  paste  with  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  1 
teaspoon  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  pepper;  beat  1  raw  t%^,  and 
add  enough  of  it  to  moisten  the  paste  so  that  it  may  easily  be 
made  into  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg;  let  them  simmer  in  the  soup 
about  5  minutes,  just  enough  to  cook  the  ^^^. — Mrs.  William 
Myers,  Franklin,  111. 

LOBSTER  BISQUE.— Cut  meat  of  1  lobster  fine,  dry  and 
pound  the  coral,  cook  the  shell  in  3  pts.  of  white  stock  or  water 
for  Yi  hr.,  strain,  add  meat,  coral,  grating  of  nutmeg,  1  tablespoon 
each  of  butter  and  flour,  a  little  white  wine,  Ya  tablespoon  of  salt, 
a  dash  of  cayenne,  1  cup  of  hot  cream,  1  teaspoon  of  anchovy 
paste,  and  1  tablespoon  of  Madeira  wine. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Ben- 
sen,  111. 

LOBSTER  CHOWDER.— 4  or  5  lbs.  of  lobster,  chopped  fine; 
take  the  green  part  and  add  to  it  4  lbs.  crackers;  stir  into  1  qt 
boiling  milk,  add  lobster,  a  piece  of  butter,  Y^  size  of  an  ^gg,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  bring  to  a  boil. — Mrs,  F.  C.  Winter,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

LORNE  SOUP.— Put  3  pts.  of  stock  into  a  stew-pan  with  a 
carrot,  a  turnip,  a  small  sprig  of  thyme,  a  bunch  of  parsley, 
and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Simmer  gently  for  Y^  an  hr.  Mince 
and  pound  in  a  mortar  all  the  remaining  white  meat  of  a  cold  roast 
turkey  with  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  crumbs  of  Y2  roll, 
which  has  been  soaked  in  milk  and  pressed  dry,  2  oz.  of  blanched 
and  pounded  almonds.  Strain  the  soup,  and  return  to  the  sauce- 
pan. Stir  the  pounded  ingredients  thoroughly  into  it,  simmer 
gently  for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

MACARONI  SOUP  (Italian  Style).— Put  4  sticks  of  macaroni 
into  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  onion.  Boil 
until  the  macaroni  is  tender;  when  done  drain  and  pour  over  it  2 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         193 

qts.  of  good  broth,  beef,  chicken,  etc.  Place  the  pan  on  the  fire  to 
simmer  for  about  10  minutes.  Add  a  little  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetfca,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Break  4  slices  of  macaroni  into  small 
pieces  about  1  inch  long.  Put  them  into  boiling  water  and  let  them 
cook  for  25  minutes.  Strain  and  put  them  into  the  soup  tureen 
and  pour  over  Ij^  pts.  of  boiling  bouillon.  Serve  with  this  grated 
Swiss  or  Parmesan  cheese  on  a  separate  dish. — Mrs.  Robert  Ran- 
dall, 908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

MACARONI   SOUP   WITH   STOCK   UNTHICKENED.— 1 

qt.  stock,  seasonings,  %  cup  macaroni,  cut  in  J/2-inch  pieces.  Cook 
macaroni  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water,  add  to  seasoned 
stock. — Mrs.  Frank  Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

ORDINARY  RULE  FOR  MEAT  SOUP.— In  making  meat 

soup  use  1  qt.  of  cold  water  to  each  lb.  of  meat  and  bone.  If  the 
liquid  boils  away  in  cooking,  add  boiling  water;  as  lukewarm  or 
cold  water  injures  the  flavor.  Parsley,  celery,  pounded  and  bruised, 
put  into  soup  a  few  minutes  before  done  gives  a  nice  color.  Grated 
carrot,  burnt  sugar  or  pounded  spinach  gives  the  same  result. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

MEAT  SOUPS.— Put  the  meat  into  cold  water  and  allow  it 
to  boil  slowly,  then  simmer  for  3  or  4  hrs.  When  the  albumen 
rises  it  must  be  skimmed  again  and  again,  until  it  is  perfectly  clear. 
Make  soup  in  a  granite  or  enamel-lined  kettle;  it  is  healthier  and 
the  color  is  clearer.  Do  not  use  too  much  salt.  Add  the  onions 
as  soon  as  the  soup  'boils.  Wlien  making  a  thick  soup,  the  rice, 
vermicelli,  etc.,  should  be  partly  cooked  before  adding.— 'Mrs.  E. 
D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

MILK  SOUP. — The  various  soups  known  as  creams  are 
usually  about  J^  milk,  and  ^  meat  or  vegetable  stock,  slightly 
thickened  with  flour,  which  has  been  blended  with  fat;  for  exam- 
ple, the  tough,  flabby  portions  and  white  bodies,  cream,  like  soup, 
and  just  before  serving  season  with  1  teaspoon  salt  and  3  shakes 
of  pepper.  Chop  coarsely,  the  whites  of  4  or  5  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  add  to  the  soup.  When  ready  to  serve  sprinkle  each  portion 
with  the  grated  yolks. — Mrs.  Roger  Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights, 
IlL 


194  SOUP 

VARIATION  I. — Prepare  1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  vegetable-, 
water  or  other  liquid,  2  tablespoons  flour,  ^  cup  vegetable  water, 
fat,  and  ^  of  the  milk  over  the  fire  to  heat;  mix  the  flour  smoothly 
with  the  remaining  milk;  stir  it  into  the  scalding  liquid,  and  stir 
constantly,  until  it  thickens;  stir  in  the  vegetable  pulp;  season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. — Mrs.  Frank  Cress,  Park 
Ridge,  111. 

MILK  AND  CHERVIL  SOUP.— Boil  with  salt  and  pepper  1 
qt.  of  milk  and  pour  it  in  the  tureen  over  browned  bread.  Sprinkle 
chopped  chervil  on  the  top,  and  serve. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen 
View,  111. 

RIVEL  MILK  SOUP.— Put  on  to  boil  1  qt.  or  more  of  milk 
with  a  little  water.  Prepare  egg  rivels  by  taking  some  flour,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  1  egg,  and  stirring  them  together  until  the  mass 
forms  into  little  'rivels;"  add  these  to  the  boiling  milk,  salt  to  taste, 
and  let  boil  until  the  rivels  are  done. — ^^Mrs.  J.  S.  Putnam,  Wheel- 
ing, 111. 

PUREE  MONGOLE  SOUP.— Put  1  can  of  tomatoes  in  a 
saucepan  and  with  it  2  cups  of  strong  vegetable  broth,  1  stalk  of 
celery,  1  slice  of  onion,  1  bay  leaf,  3  allspice,  3  cloves,  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  let  cook  slowly  for  }/^  an  hr.  Pour  the  liquid  through  a 
sieve,  pressing  with  it  as  much  of  the  tomato  as  will  go,  reserving 
the  celery.  Return  to  the  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoon  of  reduced 
vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of  boiled  peas,  1  tablespoon  of  canned  string 
beans,  split  in  J/^,  and  the  cooked  stalk  of  celery,  shredded,  into 
thin  strips  2  inches  long;  let  simmer  for  5  minutes,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper;  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  remove  from  the  fire, 
and  beat  vigorously  into  the  soup  1  well-beaten  egg. — Mrs.  Chris. 
Worthington,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

MULLIGATAWNEY  SOUP.— This  is  an  Indian  soup,  and 
means  "pepper  pot."  It  can  be  made  from  veal,  calf's  'head,  chicken 
or  rabbit.  Use  1,  or  a  mixture  of  2  or  more  of  these  varieties  of 
meat.  Mulligatiwney  soup  should  always  be  very  highly  sea- 
soned with  onions,  curry  powder,  and  apples,  or  lemons,  or  some 
strong  acid  fruit.  The  best  portions  of  the  .meat  are  usually  re- 
moved as  soon  as  tender,  and  served  with  the  strained  soup.  Rice 
should  also  'be  served  with  this  soup. — Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenil- 
worth,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         195 

MUTTON  BROTH.— To  1  lb.  of  finely  chopped  lean  mutton, 
including  some  of  the  bon€,  add  1  pt.  of  cold  water  and  a  little  salt; 
let  cook  slowly  for  3  hrs.,  adding  water  from  time  to  time,  if  neces- 
sary, allowing  but  a  ^  pt.  of  liquid  when  done.  Then  strain 
through  a  piece  of  muslin,  and  when  cold  remove  the  fat.  If 
liked,  it  msLy  be  served  cold  in  the  form  of  jelly. — Mrs.  Hawthorn, 
143  S.  16th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Place  in  a  kettle  3  lbs.  of  a  neck  of  mutton 
from  which  the  fat  has  been  cut  and  chopped  into  small  pieces, 
with  6  pts.  of  water.  Boil,  skim,  set  the  pan  to  the  back  of  the 
stove,  let  simmer  for  1  ^hr.  Add  3  oz.  of  washed  rice,  a  turnip,  and 
some  celery.  Simmer  for  2  hrs.  Strain  free  from  fat;  add  salt, 
and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Cut  the  lean  part  and  loin  into  small 
pieces,  removing  all  the  fat.  Place  1  lb.  of  the  meat  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  pt.  of  cold  water,  and  put  it  on  the  fire.  Skim.  Boil  2 
hrs.,  strain,  add  flavor.  When  the  broth  begins  to  boil,  add  a  tea- 
spoon of  pearl  barley. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jefifries,  Winnetka,  111. 

A  NEW  YORK  SOUP.— Add  1  pinch  of  salt  and  a  teaspoon 
of  sugar  to  a  qt.  of  milk.  Thicken  slightly  with  2  ozs.  of  butter. 
Just  ^before  taking  up  stir  in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Toast  6  circular 
slices  of  bread,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  put  them  into  the  oven  for 
a  couple  of  minutes.  Pour  the  soup  over  the  toast  and  serve. — 
Mrs.  C.  J.  Jefifries,  Winnetka,  111. 

NOODLE  SOUP  FOR  FOUR  PEOPLE.— Take  1  egg,  1  tea- 
spoon of  milk,  and  ^  teaspoon  of  salt;  mix  in  flour  until  very 
stiff,  then  roll  as  thin  possible,  the  thinner  the  better.  Sprinkle  a 
little  flour  on  this  sheet,  and  roll,  then  cut  in  very  thin  strips. 
Throw  them  into  the  boiling  broth,  where  a  piece  of  meat  and 
bone  has  been  boiled  good  and  tender.  Let  noodles  boil  2  min- 
utes.    Season  with  parsley. — Mrs.  Ralph  Charters,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

NORMANDY  SOUP.— Put  3  pts.  of  water  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoon  of  fat  saved  from  the  drippings;  salt  and  pepper. 
When  it  boils  put  in  a  54  of  a  small  Savoy  cabbage,  cut  up  in  thin 
slices,  1  large  potato,  and  3  medium-sized  leeks,  cut  into  dice  shaped 
pieces.    Let  boil  slowly  for  1  hr.     Brown  in  the  oven  some  sliced 


196  SOUP 

bread,  as  indicated,  for  croutons.     Put  it  in  the  tureen,  pour  over 
the  (boiling  soup,  and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

NUT  SOUP. — Break  into  small  pieces  1  cup  of  hickory  and  1 
of  almond  nuts.  Simmer  in  2  pts.  of  water,  seasoned  Mrith  ^  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  a  slice  of  onion  and  2  stalks  of  celery.  When  ten- 
der, add  1  cup  of  rich  milk  or  cream.  May  be  strained  or  not. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Simmer  1  pt.  of  lima  beans  gently  in  just 
sufficient  water  to  cook  and  not  burn,  until  they  have  fallen  to 
pieces.  Add  more  boiling  water,  if  necessary.  When  done,  rub 
the  beans  through  a  colander.  Add  nut  soup  stock  to  make  the 
proper  consistency,  and  salt  to  taste.  Re-heat,  and  serve.  A 
heaping  tablespoon  of  sago,  previously  soaked  in  cold  water,  may 
be  added  to  the  soup  when  it  is  re-heated,  and  the  whole  cooked 
until  the  sago  is  transparent. — Mrs.  E;  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

NUT  SOUP  STOCK.— This  consists  of  the  concentrated,  solu- 
ble portions  of  choice  nuts,  and  is  a  perfect  substitute  for  meat 
stock.  Can  be  used  by  itself  or  with  vegetable  products.  It  may 
be  used  the  same  as  extract  of  beef.  Dissolve  in  hot  or  cold  water. 
Add  the  water  slowly  at  first,  1  part  stock  to  10  of  water. — Mrs. 
C.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

ONION  SOUP. — Let  1  qt.  of  water  and  several  peeled  and 
chopped  onions  come  to  a  boil,  drain,  and  put  back  into  the  pan. 
Pour  over  the  onions  2  qts.  of  boiling  water  and  let  cook  until 
very  tender,  ad^ding  a  tablespoon  of  salt.  When  done  add  a  cup 
of  rich  cream;  let  come  to  a  boil.  A  few  minutes  before  serving 
remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  generous 
lump  of  butter,  mixed  \\nth  a  little  flour,  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  a 
pinch  of  sugar.  Let  it  come  to  a  bubble,  and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D. 
Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan. 
When  hot,  add  1  finely  chopped  onion;  fry  until  nicely  browned. 
Put  1  qt.  of  soup  stock,  made  from  odds  and  ends  of  cold  meat, 
into  a  stew-pan;  add'  the  fried  onion  and  cook  for  15  minutes. 
Strain,  return  to  the  fire,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour  wet  in  a  little 
polcl  water  to  thicken,  and  boil  for  5  minutes  longer.    Season  with 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  197 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  and  ^  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Cut  2  slices  of  stale 
bread  into  dice;  brown  the  dice  in  the  oven,  put  them  in  the  soup 
tureen,  pour  the  soup  over  them  at  once  before  they  become  soft. — 
Mrs.  L.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BROWN  ONION  SOUP.— Peel  and  cut  in  thin  rings  6  Span- 
ish onions,  fry  them  in  butter  till  tender  and  brown.  Lay  them  on 
a  hair  sieve,  so  as  to  drain  off  the  butter.  Put  the  into  a  kettle 
with  5  qts.  of  water,  boil  for  1  hr.,*  stirring  often.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Rub  the  crumbs  of  a  roll  through  a  colander,  and 
add  to  the  soup,  stirring  constantly.  Boil  2  hrs.  longer.  Ten  min- 
utes before  you  serve  it,  beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  2  spoons  of 
vinegar  and  a  little  of  the  soup.  Pour  it  in  by  degrees,  stirring  it 
one  way. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

ONION  AND  CELERY  SOUP.— Cook  1  cup  of  celery,  2  on- 
ions, finely  chopped,  with  1  qt.  of  water,  until  very  tender;  add  1 
qt.  of  rich  milk;  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  serve  hot. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

ONION  SOUP  WITH  SALT  PORK.— Cut  a  small  piece  of 
lean  salt  pork  into  J^-inoh  squares.  Put  into  a  soup  kettle  with 
sufficient  water  for  soup.  Add  12  good-sized  onions,  pared  and 
sliced  fine.  When  done  add  1  ^zZt  beaten  well.  Serve  at  once. 
Other  meat  can  be  used,  if  desired. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka, 
111. 

OX  TAIL  SOUP.— Cover  1  large  or  2  small  ox  tails— well 
washed  and  jointed — ^with  cold  water,  heat  slowly,  and  skim 
several  times.  Have  ready  4  or  5  large  onions,  1  sliced,  the 
others  left  whole,  1  medium-sized  parsnip,  cut  in  half,  2  or  3  me- 
dium-sized carrots,  quartered,  1  tablespoon  barley  and  2  bay  leaves; 
parsley  may  be  substituted  for  bay  leaves.  Let  boil  gently  until 
the  meat  is  tender,  adding  boiling  water  as  it  cooks  away — about 
4  hrs.  Half  an  hour  before  it  is  done  throw  in  a  small  cup  of  diced 
potatoes,  a  little  celery,  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  red  pep- 
per. Serve  with  a  bit  of  meat  and  a  section  of  carrot  in  each  plate, 
omitting  parsnip  and  whole  onions.  The  latter  may  be  removed 
and  served  as  a  vegetable. — ^Mrs.  Bianca  Pessinger,  124  S.  20th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 


m  SOUP 

VARIATION  I.— Brown  3  oz.  of  butter,  put  in  2  carrots,  1 
I>arsley  root,  3  small  onions,  1  bunch  parsley  and  some  celery  pre- 
viously peeled  and  cut  up;  also  a  little  thyme,  3  bay  leaves  and  a 
spoonful  of  w'hole  pepper.  Allow  all  to  brown  in  the  butter.  Pour 
over  1  pt.  of  water,  and,  if  desired,  thicken  with  a  little  flour  moist- 
ened in  a  little  water.  Then  add  5  pts.  water,  together  with  2  ox 
tails,  well  washed  and  jointed.  Allow  to  cook  slowly  until  the 
meat  leaves  the  bone.  As  it  boils  down,  add  more  water.  Salt  to 
taste.  Strain  the  soup  and  serve  with  a  piece  of  meat  in  each  plate. 
— Mrs.  Alma  Hummeland,  14  S.  19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  III. 

OYSTER  BISQUE.— Chop  1  qt.  of  oysters  and  put  in  a  pan 
with  1  bay  leaf,  1  sprig  parsley,  1  stalk  celery,  1  slice  small  onion, 
white  pepper,  cayenne,  salt,  blade  of  mace,  J^  pt.  of  chicken  stock, 
and  some  of  the  liquor  of  the  oysters.  Cook  20  minutes.  Put  1 
scant  pt.  bread  crumbs  (no  crust)  and  J^  pt.  of  chicken  stock  in 
another  pan,  cook  slowly  20  minutes.  Now  strain  liquor  from  first 
pan  into  the  second,  pressing  all  liquor  from  oysters;  cook  10  min- 
utes. Reserve  J^  cup  of  cream;  put  the  rest  of  a  qt.  to  heat  in  a 
double  boiler.  When  the  contents  of  pan  containing  oysters  have 
cooked  10  minutes,  rub  throi;gh  a  fine  sieve,  and  add  1  tablespoon 
of  flour,  and  2  tablespoons  of  butter;  return  to  the  fire;  stir  until  it 
boils,  then  add  the  hot  cream  and  set  back  to  a  cool  place.  Add 
the  14  cup  of  cold  cream  to  the  well-ibeaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  and 
stir  into  the  bisque;  cook  1  minute,  stirring  all  the  time. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

PARSNIP  SOUP  WITH  STOCK.— Stew  54  doz.  sliced 'pars- 
nips, 2  onions,  6  sticks  of  celery,  and  2  qts.  of  stock  until  tender, 
about  2  hrs.,  then  drain  and  press  them  through  a  coarse  sieve  and 
return  the  puree  to  the  soup.  Let  boil,  season  with  a  little  salt 
and  pepper  or  cayenne,  and  serve  very  hot.  A  little  boiling  milk, 
a  little  tomato,  or  a  tablespoon  of  chili  vinegar  may  be  added,  if  de- 
sired.— ^Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CREAM  OF  PARSNIPS.— Wash  thoroughly  and  scrape  2 
parsnips,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  boil  till  tender,  rub  through  a 
sieve  into  a  qt.  of  hot  milk,  adding  1  cup  of  the  water  in  which  the 
parsnips  were  boiled.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  dash  of  nutmeg, 
if  .desired,  and  a  pinch  of  powdered  cloves;  thicken  with  2  table- 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  199 

spoons  of  flour,  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  boil  5  minutes. — 
Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

PEA  SOUP. — Soup  made  of  the  yellow  split  peas  is  nourish- 
ing, delicious,  and  cheap.  A  J^  pt.  of  peas  will  make  a  generous 
supply  for  4  persons.  Pick,  wash  and  cover  them  well  with  cold 
water  in  a  porcelain  or  agate  stew-pan  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire. 
When  the  water  comes  to  a  boil  change  it,  add  salt,  cook  gently 
till  the  peas  are  quite  tender — say,  2j4  hrs.,  adding  water  as  it  boils 
off;  pass  through  a  colander,  season  "with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little 
celery  salt;  put  in  about  2  oz.  butter,  thin  down  to  an  agreeable 
consistency  with  sweet  milk,  boil  up  once  more,  else  the  milk  will 
sour  easily.  White  beans  can  be  used  after  the  same  recipe,  only 
soak  the  beans  over  night,  cook  longer,  and  change  the  water  three 
times. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

PEA  SOUP,  WITH  BREAD  AND  BUTTER  CRISPS.— Cut 

J4  lb.  fat  bacon  into  small  dice,  slice  an  onion  very  fine,  and  fry 
with  the  pork  for  10  minutes,  stirring  often.  To  a  cup  of  split  peas 
that  have  been  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water,  add  2  qts.  water; 
into  this  turn  the  fried  pork  and  onion,  and  boil  until  the  peas  are 
reduced  to  a  pulp,  then  rub  through  a  coarse  sieve,  return  to  the 
fire,  add  2  rounded  tablespoons  of  rolled  cracker,  a  sprig  of  parsley 
and  a  level  saltspoon  of  white  pepper.  If  the  bacon  has  not  suffi- 
ciently seasoned  it,  add  salt,  simmer  for  10  minutes,  and  serve  with 
bread  and  butter  crisps. 

Crisps. — Trim  off  all  crusts  from  a  loaf  of  baker's  cream  bread, 
butter  1  end  of  the  loaf,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  thinnest  pos- 
sible slices.  Roll  the  slices  closely  and  fasten  with  a  wooden 
toothpick,  brown  in  the  oven,  and  serve  with  the  soup,  either  hot 
or  cold. — Mrs.  Bianca  Pessinger,  124  S.  20th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP.— Cover  a  qt.  of  green  peas  with  hot  wa- 
ter and  boil  with  a  small  onion  until  they  mash  easily;  mash  and 
add  1  pt.  of  stock  or  water.  Cook  2  tablespoons  butter  and  1  of  flour 
until  smooth,  but  not  brown;  add  to  the  peas,  and  then  add  1  cup 
of  cream  and  1  of  milk;  season,  and  let  boil  up  nice.  Strain  and 
serve. — Mrs.  Belle  Thompson,  160  S.  19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

IONIA  PEA  SOUP.— Add  1  qt.  of  dried  peas  to  5  of  water  and 
boil  4  hrs.    Cut  up  3  large  onions,  2  heads  of  celery,  1  carrot,  and 


200  SOUP 

2  turnips,  and  add  to  the  boiled  peas  and  -water.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Boil  2  hrs.  more,  thinning  with  water  if  necessary. 
Strain  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Serve  hot,  with  dice  of 
toast. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP  WITH  STOCK.— Wash  the  neck  of 
lamb  in  cold  water  and  put  it  into  a  soup-pot  with  6  qts.  of  cold 
water.  Add  2  tablespoons  of  salt,  let  boil  gently  for  2  hrs.,  and 
skim;  add  1  qt.  of  shelled  peas,  a  little  pepper;  cover  and  let  boil 
for  yz  hr.;  scrape  the  skins  from  a  pt.  of  young  potatoes;  slice  and 
add  them  to  soup,  cover  and  let  boil  ^  hr.  longer.  Work  butter 
size  of  an  ^^^  and  a  dessertspoon  of  flour  together,  and  add  to 
soup  10  minutes  before  taking  off  the  fire. — Mrs.  E,  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

PENNSYLVANIA  PEA  SOUP.— Put  1  qt.  of  full-grown  peas 
in  a  saucepan  with  3  pts.  of  boiling  water  and  a  little  mint.  Do  not 
cover,  and  let  boil  rapidly,  until  peas  are  tender.  Skim  fre- 
quently, press  the  whole  through  a  coarse  sieve  and  return 
to  the  fire,  letting  it  boil  up  once  more.  To  this  add  a  lump  of 
sugar,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

RICE  AND  PEA  SOUP.— Put  1  cup  of  washed  rice  in  a  gran- 
ite-pan, allow  it  to  boil  gently  until  tender.  Put  1  pt.  of  young  peas 
into  another  saucepan  and  stew  until  tender.  When  both  vegeta- 
bles are  cooked,  put  them  together  and  add  1  pt.  of  hot  water.  Let 
boil,  remove  the  pan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  stir  in,  quickly,  the 
yolk  of  an  ^%%y  beaten,  with  1  pt.  of  cream.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar.  Pour  over  toasted  brown 
bread,  cut  in  small  squares. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

PEA  AND  VERMICELLI  SOUP.— Pass  1  pt.  of  cooked  peas 
through  a  wire  sieve.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with  1  qt.  of  milk.  Boil 
separately  2  oz.  of  large,  white  vermicelli  for  10  minutes  in  salted 
water.  Drain,  put  with  the  soup,  boil  10  minutes  longer,  skim  and 
serve. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

PEANUT  SOUP.— Melt  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a 
double  boiler,  stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  pt.  of  milk;  when 
very  hot,  add  the  pounded  meats  of  1  pt.  of  shelled  peanuts.   Cook 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  201 

15  minutes  longer;  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 
—Mrs.  E  .G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

PEPPER  POT.— Boil  tripe  the  day  before  you  wish  to  make 
soup.  To  1  qt.  of  tripe,  cut  into  small  dice,  add  1  qt.  of  sliced  raw 
potatoes,  and  1  chopped  onion.  To  this  add  2  qts.  of  water,  or 
chicken  stock  is  'better  Boil  until  potatoes  are  done.  A  few  min- 
utes before  you  are  ready  to  serve,  add  dumplings  and  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  to  taste. — Mrs.  Roy  Allen,  Plain  View,  111. 

DUMPLINGS.— Mix  with  a  tablespoon  1  pt.  of  flour,  a  little 
salt,  and  1  heaping  spoon  of  baking  powder,  mixed  with  sweet 
milk.  Do  not  make  too  stiff;  drop  into  the  soup  with  spoon.  Add 
butter  if  not  rich  enough.  Do  not  let  boil  too  long,  or  they  will 
be  hard. — Mrs.  Roy  Allen,  Plain  View,  111. 

POTATO  SOUP.— Steam  6  large  potatoes  and  rub  through  a 
strainer  when  tender.  Boil  2  qts.  of  milk,  to  which  a  little  onion 
has  been  added.  Take  out  the  onion  and  add  milk,  gradually,  to 
the  potatoes.  Put  all  back  in  the  pan,  and  bring  to  a  boil  again. 
Melt  Ij^  oz.  of  butter  in  another  pan,  rub  in  4  tablespoons  of  flour, 
and  seasoning  to  taste.  Add  to  the  soup  and  strain,  if  lumpy.  Add 
a  little  more  butter,  and  sprinkle  chopped  parsley  on  top. — Mrs. 
Roger  Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cook  3  potatoes  until  soft,  mash  thoroughly. 
Scald  1  qt.  of  milk  with  2  slices  of  onion,  remove  onion,  add  to  the 
potatoes,  and  thicken  with  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  season  to  taste; 
add  3  tablespoons  of  butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley. 
Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Ed.  Barton,  Plain  View,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Boil  3  sliced,  medium-sized  potatoes  until 
they  can  be  rubbed  through  a  colander;  add  1  cup  cream  to  the 
potato  water;  add  the  potatoes,  and  rub  1  egg  into  a  pt.  of  flour, 
forming  tiny  balls;  sprinkle  these  into  the  boiling  soup;  season, 
and  add  butter  and  parsley  to  taste. — Mrs.  Roger  Baker,  1334 
Otto  Blvd.,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

VARIATION  III.— Boil  5  me4ium-sized  potatoes,  put  them 
through  a  colander,  add  Ij^  cups  milk,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  pepper  and  salt;  beat  10  minutes;  add  1  qt.  of  milk, 
warmed;  let  come  to  a  boil  and  add  parsley,  chopped  fine.  Serve 
immediately. — Mrs.  Conklin,  514  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111.         ^ 


202  SOUP 

CREAM  OF  POTATO  SOUP.— Put  lYi  cups  of  mashed  po- 
tatoes into  the  top  of  a  double  boiler;  add  2  cups  of  boiling  milk 
and  1  teaspoon  of  grated  onion;  as  soon  as  it  toils  add  2  cups  of 
boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  yi  teaspoon  white  pepper,  1  table- 
spoon each  of  butter  and  flour,  which  have  .been  rubbed  together. 
Stir  until  creamy,  add  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley  and  dust 
with  a  little  paprika.  Serve  with  croutons. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason, 
Bensen,  111.  ^ 

GERMAN  POTATO  SOUP.— Cook  1  leek  and  4  or  5  potatoes 
in  a  qt.  of  water.  Pour  off  the  water  and  mash  the  potatoes  and 
leek,  return  the  water  and  set  on  the  stove  again.  Put  a  table- 
spoon of  water  in  a  spider  and  add  a  chopped  onion;  simmer  until 
the  onion  is  done,  but  not  brown;  add  a  few  cracker  crumbs  and 
brown  it  nicely;  add  \]^  cups  milk,  season,  and  add  to  the  soup. 
This  is  almost  equal  to  oyster  stew. — Mrs.  Robt.  McLelland, 
Wheeling,  111. 

IOWA  POTATO  SOUP.— Boil  1  doz.  small,  peeled  potatoes 
in  1  qt.  of  water  until  done;  mash  and  pour  all  through  colander'; 
add  1  qt.  of  sweet  milk  and  1  pt.  of  beef  broth;  butter  size  of  an 
tg^',  season  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka, 
111. 

POTATO  AND  CELERY  SOUP.— Boil  6  medium-sized  pota. 
toes  in  3  pts.  of  water,  with  as  much  as  celery  as  desired.  When 
tender,  put  them  through  a  strainer,  add  1  pt.  of  sweet  cream  or 
milk,  salt,  pepper  and  butter  to  taste.  Serve  hot. — Mabel  Sturte- 
vant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

POTATO  SOUP  WITH  MEAT  DUMPLINGS.— 3  large 
pared  potatoes  brought  to  boil  and  water  poured  off.  Put  into  2 
qts.  of  water  and  a  little  butter  or  same  quantity  of  stock.  Brown 
1  large  onion,  cut  into  cubes  and  fried  with  2  tablespoons  of  flour 
in  drippings  until  rich  brown,  add  to  soup;  season  to  taste.  For 
dumplings  take  J/2  lb.  Hamburg  steak,  butter  size  of  tgg,  rubbed 
to  cream,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  J^  cup  soaked  and  squeezed  bread,  a  little 
salt,  and  stiffly  beaten  white  of  1  tgg.  Mix  very  thoroughly  and 
drop  with  tablespoon  into  boiling  soup  about  10  or  IS  minutes 
before  serving. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Cullis,  418  S.  20th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         203 

SWEET  POTATO  SOUP.— Let  onion,  chopped  fine,  simmer 
in  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  5^2  tablespoon  of  flour.  To  this  add 
a  pt.  of  milk,  stirring  it  to  a  creamy  consistency.  Then  add  3  or  4 
mashed  potatoes;  strain;  heat  again,  stirring  well. — Mabel  Sturte- 
vant,  105  S.  Dear<born  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

POTAGE  A  LA  REINE.— Mix  together  the  yolks  of  3  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  Yz  cup  cracker  crumbs,  and  "%.  cup  milk,  until  smooth; 
add  the  whites  and  1  cup  of  chicken  meat,  chopped  very  fine,  and 
pressed  through  a  colander.  Add  1  qt.  of  chicken  stock  and  sea- 
son to  taste.  Lastly,  add  1  pt.  of  cream  and  serve  as  soon  as  hot. 
— Mrs.  Helen  E.  Putnam,  4503  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

POULETTE  SOUP.— Melt  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  3 
tablespoons  each  of  diced  celery,  turnip  and  carrot,  1  tablespoon 
of  minced  onion,  a  bay  leaf,  a  blade  of  mace  and  a  bit  of  parsley. 
Cook  slowly  20  minutes.  Blend  3  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  with 
it  pour  over  gradually  3  pts.  of  milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  20  minutes  longer;  then  strain  and 
add  2  ^%^  yolks  beaten  with  J^  cup  cream. — Mrs.  Emma  Mclntyre, 
430  S.  20th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PUMPKIN  SOUP.— To  1  cup  cooked  pumpkin  add  1  qt.  of 
milk;  cut  the  pumpkin  into  small  pieces,  sprinkling  lightly  with 
salt,  and  cook  in  boiling  water  5  minutes;  drain  off  the  water,  mash 
thoroughly,  and  stir  in  a  tablespoon  of  hot,  melted  butter;  pour 
boiling  milk  over  croutons,  arranged  in  a  soup  dish,  and  add  the 
pumpkin,  stirring  the  whole  well  together.  Serve  at  once. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

QUEEN  VICTORIA'S  FAVORITE  SOUP.— Chop  1  cup  of 

cold  baked  chicken  as  fine  as  possible;  add  1  pt.  of  chicken  broth, 
1  cup  sweet  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  just  before 
serving,  add  the  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  mashed  fine. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

RABBIT  SOUP.— Cut  off  the  legs  and  shoulders,  divide  the 
body  down  the  back  and  then  across,  wash  it  in  lukewarm  water, 
and  wipe  it  dry.  Then  put  it  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  little  butter  or 
drippings;  fry  it  a  nice  brown;  put  it  in  a  soup-kettle  with  a  carrot, 
grated,  1  onion,  sliced,  4  cloves,  2  blades  of  mace,  2  doz.  pepper- 
corns, a  bunch  of  thyme  and  parsley,  2  thin  slices  of  bacon,  and  3 


204  SOUP 

qts.  of  cold  water.  Bring  all  to  a  boil,  and  set  aside  to  simmer 
for  3  hrs.  Skim  well,  and  when  the  meat  is  tender,  take  it  out,  cut 
off  the  back  and  upper  part  of  the  legs,  cut  into  small  pieces  and 
set  it  aside.  Take  the  rest  of  the  meat  from  the  bone,  and  pound 
it  in  a  mortar  with  an  oz.  of  butter  and  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 
moistened  with  a  little  soup;  when  well  mixed,  stir  it  in  the  soup, 
and  let  it  simmer  IS  minutes  longer;  then  season  with  salt  to  taste; 
strain  through  a  sieve.  Put  in  the  meat  and  set  aside;  add  a  table- 
spoon of  tomato  or  mushroom  catsup  and  a  glass  of  wine,  and 
serve. — Miss  C.  Lucile  Paddock,  1334  Otto  Blvd.,  Chicago  Heights, 
111. 

RHODE  ISLAND  CHOWDER.— Cook  fat  salt  pork  (H  lb. 
cut  in  3-inch  cubes),  with  1  large  onion,  sliced,  and  ^  cup  of  water, 
10  minutes;  drain  and  reserve  liquor.  Wash  1  qt.  clams  and  re- 
serve liquor.  Parboil  4  cups  potato  cubes,  and  drain.  To  potatoes 
add  reserved  liquors,  hard  part  of  clams,  finely  chopped,  and  2 
cups  of  boiling  water.  When  potatoes  are  nearly  done  add  1  cup 
stewed  and  strained  tomatoes,  %  teaspoon  soda,  soft  part  of  clams, 
1  cup  each  scalded  milk  and  cream,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Split  common  crackers,  soak  in  enough  cold 
milk  to  moisten,  and  heat  in  chowder. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

RICE  SOUP. — Boil  a  shank  for  soup  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  parsley.  At  the  same  time  take  }4  a  cup  of  rice,  put 
it  into  a  bag  big  enough  to  hold  3  cups.  Tie  the  bag  and  put  in  a 
pot  of  water  to  cook.  When  done,  take  the  meat  out  of  the  soup 
and  put  the  rice  into  it.  The  soup  will  be  nice  if  you  have  chicken 
instead  of  beef. — Mrs.  Annie  Prior,  3832  Langley  Ave,,  Chicago, 
111. 

CREAM  OF  RICE  SOUP.— H  cup  rice,  1  qt.  stock,  1  qt.  milk, 
1  tablespoon  butter,  ]/2  small  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put 
rice  and  cold  stock  on  to  heat.  When  boiling,  add  onion,  pepper 
and  salt  and  butter.  Boil  for  ^  an  hr.,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Harry 
J.  Powers,  4843  Grand  Blvd.,  Chicago,  111. 

SAGO  SOUP.— Heat  to  a  boiling  point  2  qts.  of  beef,  sprinkle 
into  it  gradually  J/^  cup  of  sago;  boil  5  minutes,  then  set  the  kettle 
in  a  double  boiler  for  H  hr*  Skim;  serve  JiQt,'-w^r5,  g*  P*  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  III 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         205 

VARIATION  I.— Wash  ^  Vb.  of  the  best  pearl  sago  thor- 
oughly. Stew  it  quite  tender  in  water  or  thick  broth  (about  1  qt. 
of  liquid  poured  on  it  cold  and  heated  very  slowly);  then  mix  with 
it  a  pt.  of  boiling  cream  and  the  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Put  the  whole 
in  2  qts.  of  strong,  boiling  veal  or  beef  stock. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

SALMON  SOUP.— Put  1  qt.  sweet  milk  in  a  granite  kettle 
and  set  it  on  the  stove  until  the  milk  comes  to  a  boil,  then  add  J^ 
can  of  salmon  and  3  or  4  rolled  soda  biscuits;  let  it  all  boil  for  3 
minutes,  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. — Mrs.  Anna  Peterson,  2358 
Indiana  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Boil  1  tablespoon  of  onion  in  1  qt.  milk  for 
10  minutes;  remove  the  onion;  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  2  of  flour;  add  l4  can  of  chopped  salmon,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and 
a  little  pepper;  cook  10  minutes,  rub  through  a  strainer  or  colan- 
der, and  serve  with  brown  crackers. — Mrs.  J.  Pento,  510  E.  37th 
Place,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAM  OF  SALMON  SOUP.— Boil  soft  in  salt  water  1  lb. 
of  salmon  and  chop  up  very  fine.  Boil  hard  2  eggs,  mash  the 
yolks  and  press  them  through  a  strainer,  add  the  whites,  1  oz.  of 
butter,  1  oz.  of  fiour,  and  soften  with  J^  pt.  of  soup  stock;  boil  up 
again  and  strain;  add  the  salmon  meat  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Pour 
over  toasted  squares,  and  serve. — Mrs.  K.  Hansberg,  3441  S.  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago,  111. 

PUREE  OF  SALMON.— Remove  the  oil,  bones  and  skin 
from  ^2  can  of  salmon,  chop  the  salmon  very  fine.  Heat  together 
for  10  minutes  1  slice  of  onion,  1  qt.  of  milk,  and  then  remove 
onion.  Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  1 
teaspoon  of  salt,  pepper  to  taste;  mix  well,  and  add  the  milk;  add 
the  salmon,  and  when  thoroughly  heated,  strain,  and  serve. — Mrs. 
Theresa  Hampton,  107  W.  29th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ST.  ALBANS  SOUP.— Boil  in  1  pt.  of  water  4  small  grated 
carrots,  a  bay  leaf,  4  cloves  and  a  slice  of  onion  for  1  hr.  Rub 
through  a  sieve;  add  1  qt.  of  rich  milk,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil 
add  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  3  tablespoons  of  soft  butter,  rubbed 
together  until  smooth. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen  View,  111. 


206  SOUP 

ST.  GERMAIN  SOUP.— Take  2  cans  of  peas,  reserving  J^  cup 
of  them,  and  put  them  in  a  double  boiler  with  1  onion  cut  in  4 
pieces,  with  a  clove  stuck  in  each,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon 
of  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  bay  leaf,  and  a  sprig  of  parsley; 
cover,  and  let  cook  for  J4  an  hr.,  then  mash  the  contents  of  the 
double  boiler  with  a  potato  masher,  and  add  to  them  6  cups  of  water, 
and  when  this  boils,  add  to  the  soup  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and 
2  of  flour,  rubbed  together;  stir  well,  and  cook  for  15  minutes, 
then  press  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  double  boiler,  add  2 
cups  of  milk,  the  Yt.  cup  of  peas,  drained  dry,  and  reheat  seasoning 
afresh  ^before  serving,  with  croutons. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennett,  Bart- 
lett,  111. 

VEGETABLE  OYSTERS— SALSIFY  SOUP.— Clean  by 
scraping;  chop  into  small  pieces  and  boil  in  salted  water  until  ten- 
der. Add  milk,  butter  and  salt.  Bring  to  a  boil,  and  serve. — Mrs.  F. 
F.  Hackett,  2172  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SCOTCH  BROTH.— Put  2  qts.  of  water  in  kettle,  and  when  at 
boiling  point  add  J^  cup  of  pearl  barley,  which  has  been  tossed  in 
hot  butter  in  a  frying-pan  for  5  minutes,  and  let  cook  slowly.  Cut 
up  2  carrots,  2  turnips,  and  3  large  onions,  and  fry  in  2  table- 
spoons of  butter.  Chop  a  sprig  of  parsley  very  fine,  and  put  with 
the  other  vegetables  into  the  barley  and  water.  Let  cook  slowly 
for  2  hrs.,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve.  A  J/^  teaspoon 
of  soup-browning  improves  the  appearance  of  the  broth. — Mrs. 
Roger  Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Take  ^  cup  barley,  4  qts.  cold  water,  bring 
this  to  a  boil  and  skim,  then  put  in  a  neck  of  mutton  and  boil  ^4 
hr.;  skim  well  the  sides  of  the  pot  also;  have  ready  2  carrots,  1 
large  onion,  1  small  head  cabbage,  1  bunch  parsley,  1  sprig  celery 
top;  chop  all  these  fine,  add  your  chopped  vegetables;  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  This  soup  requires  2  hrs. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

SQUIRREL  SOUP.— Allow  1  large  or  2  small  squirrels,  well 
washed  and  jointed,  to  2  qts.  of  cold  water,  and  2  tablespoons  of 
salt.  Put  to  cook  directly  after  breakfast  in  kettle.  Cover  closely 
and  set  on  the  back  of  range  to  simmer,  not  boil.  After  2  hrs.,  add 
the  com  from  2  ears,  2  small  *Irish  potatoes,  2  cups  lima  beans,  3 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  207 

sprigs  parsley,  3  celery  stalks,  and  Y^  cup  sliced  okra.  Keep  closely 
covered,  and  as  water  evaporates,  add  enough  to  keep  the  original 
2  qts.  When  squirrels  have  cooked  to  shreds,  strain  through  a 
coarse  colander  to  remove  bones.  Return  to  soup  kettle,  cover 
and  continue  to  simmer  until  nearly  time  to  serve.  Then  thicken 
with  a  dessertspoon  of  butter  rolled  in  an  equal  quantity  of  flour. 
Those  who  like  may  add  a  teaspoon  of  powdered  sassafras  leaves. 
Have  2  slices  of  toast  cut  into  inch  squares,  fried  in  butter,  and 
placed  in  the  bottom  of  hot  tureen.  Pour  over  them  the  soup, 
boiling  hot,  and  serve  immediately. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111.  . 

SPINACH  SOUP.— Use  1  pack  of  spinach,  wash  it  thoroughly, 
and  chop  fine,  put  piece  of  butter  in  saucepan,  size  of  an  t.%z\ 
when  hot,  add  1  onion,  chopped  fine;  fry  until  brown,  then  add  2 
tablespoons  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes;  add  chopped  spinach,  stir 
well;  then  add  2  qts.  water.  Let  it  simmer  y^  an  hr.,  put  through 
sieve,  season  just  before  serving.  Add  3  yolks,  dissolved  in  1  cup 
of  cream. — Mrs.  Nina  Halfacre,  3622  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Always  wash  spinach  in  5  or  6  waters.  Boil 
2  qts.,  uncovered,  for  10  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water;  drain, 
rinse  with  cold  water,  chop  fine  and  rub  through  a  colander  into  3 
pts.  of  boiling  milk,  melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  3  heaping 
tablespoons  of  flour,  then  the  soup,  slowly;  season  with  1  heaping 
teaspoon  salt  and  a  little  pepper. — Mrs.  Joseph  Hall,  3339  Vernon 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAM  OF  SPINACH  WITH  STOCK.— Chop  and  pound  1 
pt.  of  cold,  cooked  spinach,  to  a  soft  paste.  Put  it  in  a  stew-pan 
with  4  tablespoons  of  butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cook  and  stir 
for  15  minutes.  Add  1  qt.  of  stock  and  1  pt.  of  boiling  water;  let 
boil  up  and  rub  through  a  strainer.  Set  over  fire  again,  and  when 
boiling,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar. — ^Mrs. 
E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

SUMMER  JULIENNE.— 1  qt.  of  consomme,  Y^  cup  cooked 
onions,  cut  in  rings,  ^  cup  of  cooked  peas,  J^  cup  of  asparagus 
tips,  y^  cup  of  cooked  string  beans,  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  the 
vegetables,  put  them  into  soup  tureen  and  pour  over  the  boiling 
§oup.    Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111, 


208  SOUP 

SWISS  SOUP.— Put  3  pts.  of  well-seasoned  stock  into  a  sauce- 
pan and  heat.  Make  a  batter  with  3  eggs,  well  beaten,  added  to 
2  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  thinned  with  1  cup  of  milk.  Beat  well, 
and  pour  through  a  sieve,  into  the  boiling  soup.  Season  to  taste. 
— Mrs.  M.  Hammen,  112  Loomis  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

TAPIOCA  SOUP. — 4  small  potatoes,  2  onions,  2  tomatoes  or 

1  pt.,  cook  in  2  qts.  of  boiling  water  until  tender,  press  through 

colander,  return  to  water,  add  2  cups  milk,  season  with  butter,  salt 

and  pepper,  add  2  tablespoons  tapioca  after  it  has  been  soaked  in 

^  cold  water. — Mrs.  Florence  Davies,  426  S.  18th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

THREE  WAYS  TO  PREVENT  TOMATO  SOUP  FROM 
CURDLING. — 1.  By  using  soda  in  the  tomatoes;  2,  by  pouring 
tomato  juice  into  white  sauce;  3,  by  not  cooking  after  combining 
tomatoes  and  milk. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

TOMATO  SOUP. — Have  1  can  of  tomatoes,  2  cups  of  boiling 
milk  with  teaspoon  of  soda  stirred  in,  1  small  minced  onion,  2 
tablespoons  of  butter,  rubbed  in  1  of  flour,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  a  handful  of  dry  bread  crumbs,  and  1  cup  of  boiling  water; 
put  tomatoes,  onions,  and  hot  water  over  fire,  boil  J/^  hr.,  strain, 
and  rub  through  a  colander,  working  tomatoes  to  a  pulp;  have 
milk,  and  butter,  and  flour  boiled  and  kept  hot;  put  pepper  and 
salt  in  tomatoes,  simmer  5  minutes,  pour,  in  tureen,  then  stir  in 
crumbs,  and  pour  in  milk  immediately  before  serving. — Mrs.  Josh- 
ua T.  Harper,  3642  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Put  1  qt.  tomatoes  in  1  qt.  of  boiling  water; 
let  them  cook  well,  and  scald  1  qt.  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  when 
tomatoes  are  done,  add  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  when  it  ceases  to 
effervesce,  add  the  hot  milk  with  a  generous  lump  of  butter;  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Brown  a  few  crackers,  roll  fine,  ad-d  to 
soup;  serve  with  small  pieces  of  unbuttered  toast.  Time  30  to  40 
minutes. — Mrs.  Hattie  Hargrow,  3719  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Take  V^  can  of  tomatoes,  1  qt.  of  stock  in 
which  fowl  has  been  boiled,  1  tablespoon  of  corn  starch,  and  2  of 
cream,  salt  to  taste;  strain  the  tomatoes  and  add  the  com  starch, 
mixing  till  free  of  lumps;  let  it  come  to  the  boil,  add  the  stock, 


COOK  COUNTY  OOOK  BOOK  209 

and  bring  gradually  to  the  boiling  point;  lastly,  add  cream  and  salt. 
— ^Mrs.  K.  Harrington,  56  E.  Elm  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  III.— To  1  qt.  of  cooked  tomatoes  add  1  qt.  hot 
water;  bring  to  a  boiling  point,  add  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  after  which 
add  1  pt.  of  hot  milk,  and  season. — Mrs.  Robert  S.  Harris,  836  E. 
45th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  IV.— Have  1  qt.  ripe  tomatoes,  1  onion,  2  table- 
spoons flour,  2  of  butter,  2  of  sugar,  2  of  salt,  J^  teaspoon  of  pep- 
per, 3  pts.  milk,  1  pt.  water;  boil  tomato  and  onion  in  water  ^  hr.; 
add  sugar,  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  butter  to  the  milk,  and  bring  to 
a  boil;  pour  this  mixture  into  tomatoes  to  prevent  curdling;  serve 
with  squares  of  toasted  bread. — Mrs.  Chas.  Harris,  4501  Prairie 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  V. — ^Cut  up  medium-sized  onion  and  1  potato 
in  small  pieces  and  cook  in  a  little  salted  water  for  10  minutes; 
add  1  qt.  milk  and  let  come  to  a  boil;  in  another  pan  heat  a  can  of 
tomatoes  and  mix  with  milk  at  time  of  serving,  seasoning  to  taste; 
thickening  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  if  desired.  Don't  let  boil 
after  mixing,  as  there  is  danger  of  curdling. — ^Mrs.  Jas.  S.  Hartman, 
4330  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP.— Cook  1  qt.  can  of  tomatoes 
for  Yi  hr.,  with  a  minced  onion,  and  some  sprigs  of  parsley.  Pour 
through  a  strainer  fine  enough  to  keep  back  the  seeds.  Set  the 
saucepan  over  fire  with  a  tablespoon  of  sifted  flour,  and  when 
smooth  add  slowly  the  liquid  of  tomatoes  and  a  scant  ^  teaspoon 
of  baking  soda.  Measure  the  soda  with  a  very  light  hand;  when 
the  foaming  stops,  add  a  qt.  of  boiling  milk,  season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  into  the  tureen. — ^Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry, 
Glencoe,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  can  tomatoes  boiled  in  a  pt.  of  water  for 
15  or  20  minutes,  then  add  ^  teaspoon  soda,  heat  1  qt.  milk  with  1 
large  spoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  thicken  with  1 
tablespoon  of  sifted  flour,  stirred  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water. 
Strain  the  tomatoes  through  a  wire  sieve,  and  add  to  the  thickened 
milk.  Cut  bread  in  small  squares,  Y^  inch  thick,  fry  to  a  light  brown 
in  butter,  and  put  in  soup  after  pouring  in  the  dish. — Mrs.  Marga- 
ret Stearns,  Maywood,  111. 


210  SOUP 

TOMATO  AND  MACARONI  SOUP.— Break  J^  doz.  sticks 
of  macaroni  into  small  pieces  and  drop  into  boiling  water.  Cook 
for  an  lir.,  or  until  perfectly  tender.  Rub  through  a  colander,  2 
qts.  of  canned  or  stewed  tomatoes.  When  the  macaroni  is  done, 
drain  thoroughly,  cut  each  piece  into  tiny  rings  and  add  to  the 
strained  tomatoes,  season  to  taste.  If  the  tomato  is  quite  thin 
thicken  with  a  little  flour  before  adding  the  macaroni. — Mrs.  Conk- 
lin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

TOMATO  SOUP  WITH  STOCK.— Cook  8  good-sized  ripe 
tomatoes  in  2  cups  of  good  rich  stock,  rub  through  the  colander; 
when  the  stock  is  brought  to  a  boil  turn  in  the  tomatoes,  cook 
a'bout  10  minutes  longer,  remove  from  hot  fire,  add  salt,  pepper,  a 
bit  of  butter  and  y^  teaspoon  soda,  then  just  before  serving  add  1 
cup  sweet  cream. — Mrs.  Rose  Hayes,  4400  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

TURKEY  SOUP.— Place  the  remains  of  a  cold  turkey,  dress- 
ing and  gravy,  in  a  pot,  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Simmer  gently 
for  4  hrs.,  and  let  stand  until  the  next  day.  Skim  oflF  the  fat,  and 
take  out  all  bits  of  bones.  Put  the  soup  on  to  heat  until  at  boiling 
point,  and  thicken  slightly  with  flour  stirred  into  a  cup  of  cream, 
and  season  to  taste.  Pick  off  all  the  meat  from  the  bones,  put  it 
back  in  the  soup,  boil  up,  and, serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka.  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Take  the  turkey  bones  and  cook  for  1  hr.  in 
water  enough  to  cover  them,  then  stir  in  a  little  dressing  and  a 
beaten  ^^^.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  when  the  water  has  ceased 
boiling  add  a  little  butter,  thin  with  scalding  milk,  and  season  to 
taste. — Mrs.  George  Hayes,  758  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

TURKEY  OR  GOOSE  SOUP.— Take  any  left-over  poultry, 
break  the  carcass  in  pieces,  removing  all  stuffing.  Put  into  kettle 
with  remnants  of  the  meat;  cover  with  cold  water,  bring  slowly  to 
the  boiling  point,  and  let  simmer  4  or  more  hrs.;  add  1  sliced  onion 
and  H  cup  celery,  diced,  and  54  cup  carrot,  sliced;  let  boil  ^  hr 
longer.  Strain,  remove  fat,  add  y^  cup  stuffing  to  every  qt.  of  soup 
Season,  and  serve  hot  with  dumplings.  Barley  or  green  kern,  or 
cereals  may  be  added. — Mrs.  F.  F.  Hackett,  2112  Prairie  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, III 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         211 

TURKISH  SOUP.— 5  cups  stock,  K  cup  rice,  1^4  cups  strained 
tomatoes,  1  bay  leaf,  2  slices  onion,  1  oz.  peppercorns,  ^  teaspoon 
celery  salt,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour;  add  season- 
ing to  tomatoes,  cover,  simmer  30  minutes,  rub  through  sieve 
into  hot  stock,  brush  with  butter  and  flour;  add  cooked  rice. — ^^Mrs. 
F.  V.  Holdridge,  .4106  Calumet  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

QUICK  TURKISH  SOUP.— Stir  a  teaspoon  of  beef  extract 
into  1  qt.  of  boiling  v^rater;  add  a  tablespoon  of  grated  onion;  a 
saltspoon  of  celery  seed.  When  this  reaches  the  boiling  point 
pour  it  slowly  over  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Have  ready, 
drained,  4  tablespoons  of  boiled  rice,  add,  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs. 
Virginia  Hood,  3352  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

TURNIP  AND  RICE  SOUP.— Peel  and  wash  a  number  of 
turnips,  put  them  in  a  granite  kettle  with  a  lump  of  butter  and 
sufficient  water  to  allow  them  to  simmer  gently  until  tender.  Pass 
through  a  fine  hair  sieve,  return  to  the  kettle,  add  1  pt.  of  rich 
milk  and  ^  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
pinch  of  sugar.  Let  simmer  for  20  minutes;  stir  in  a  lump  of  but- 
ter and  1  cup  of  cream.  Serve  on  croutons. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

TURTLE  SOUP.— After  turtle  is  killed  let  bleed  12  hrs.,  open 
the  side,  remove  the  meat  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  then  blanch  5 
minutes  in  boiling  water.  If  turtle  is  medium  size,  take  off  the 
shell  and  put  in  soup  kettle,  cover  with  white  broth,  adding  1  tea- 
spoon of  peppercorns,  1  doz.  cloves,  2  sprigs  of  thyme,  4  bay  leaves, 
salt  to  taste;  boil  1  hr.;  then  strain  the  broth,  remove  bones,  and 
dice  the  meat.  Boil  the  broth  until" reduced  }i  in  quantity,  then 
add  meat,  and  boil  10  minutes.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  1  tumbler 
of  Madeira  wine.  When  turtles  cannot  ibe  obtained,  get  1  pt.  of 
canned  turtle  meat  and  prepare  soup  same  way  as  when  using  live 
turtle.  Soup  will  keep  a  long  while  if  put  in  stone  jars,  and  when 
cold  pour  hot  lard  over  the  top.  Reheat  when  needed  for  use. — 
Mrs.  Carl  N.  Honig,  3026  Lake  Park  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP.— A  calf's  head,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a 
hock  of  ham,  6  sliced,  thin  potatoes,  3  turnips,  parsley,  and  sweet 
marjoram,  chopped  fine,  and  pepper.  Forcemeat  balls  of  veal 
and  beef,  j4  pt.  of  wine,  1  doz.  egg  balls,  juice  of  1  lemon.    The 


212  SOU? 

calf's  head  must  have  had  the  brains  removed  and  previously 
boiled  till  the  meat  slips  off  the  bone.  Save  the  broth  to  use  in 
the  soup.  Cut  the  head  in  small  pieces  after  boiling.  The  veal 
and  ham  must  have  been  boiled  and  cut  up,  and  all  simmered  for 
a  couple  of  hrs.  in  the  broth  made  by  the  calfs  head.  Put  all 
together.  The  forcemeat  balls  and  egg  balls  should  be  added,  and 
all  boiled  for  about  10  minutes. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— 1  soup  bone,  1  qt.  turtle  beans,  1  large 
spoonful  of  powdered  cloves,  salt  and  pepper.  Soak  the  beans 
over  night,  put  them  on  with  a  soup  bone  in  nearly  6  qts.  of  water 
and  cook  5  or  6  hrs.  When  half  done,  add  the  cloves,  salt  and  pep- 
per; when  done,  strain  through  a  colander,  pressing  the  pulp  of 
the  beans  through  to  make  the  soup  the  desired  thickness,  and 
serve  with  a  few  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  lemon  sliced  very 
thin.  The  turtle  beans  are  black  and  can  only  be  obtained  from 
large  grocers. — Mrs.  McHornaday,  1235  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago, 
111. 

VEAL  BROTH.-^Cut  4  lbs.  of  scrag  of  veal  into  small  pieces, 
and  put  into  a  stewpan.  Pour  over  3  qts.  of  water  and  place  over 
the  fire.  Skim  carefully.  Add  an  onion,  a  turnip,  3  blades  of 
mace  and  a  little  salt.  Stew  all  slowly  for  2  hrs.  Then  strain 
through  a  sieve  and  add  %  lb.  of  rice  that  has  been  boiled  tender. 
Boil  10  minutes  longer,  and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka, 
111. 

KNUCKLE  OF  VEAL  SOUP.— Cut  in  slices  J4  lb.  ham,  and 
put  in  bottom  of  pot;  crack  the  bones  of  a  knuckle  and  cut  up  1 
set  of  calf's  feet  and  put  on  top  of  ham;  let  this  brown  a  little, 
then  add  2  gals,  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly  4  hrs.  Chop  fine,  3 
onions,  2  turnips,  1  bunch  of  celery  and  2  carrots  and  add.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  strain,  and  serve. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP.— 1  soup  bone,  1  qt.  of  canned  tomatoes, 
3  Irish  potatoes,  1  gallon  of  cold  water.  Wash  bone  and  put  in 
soup  pot  with  water.  Simmer  for  3  hrs.,  skimming  constantly; 
then  press  tomatoes  through  a  sieve,  and  add  to  soup;  also  pota- 
toes diced,  season  with  black  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  2  hrs.,  longer; 
then  add  2  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour,  made  into  a  paste,  with 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         213 

cold  water.  Stir  well  to  prevent  lumping.  Cook  about  15  minutes. 
Serve  soup  in  hot  tureen. — Mrs.  P.  A.  Hughes,  3230  Park  Ave., 
Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Use  a  shank  soup  bone,  put  on  in  cold  water, 
salted,  and  cook  until  tender.  Remove  bone  and  meat,  put  in 
handful  rice,  4  potatoes  cut  into  dice,  1  cup  finely  cut  up  onions,  1 
cup  diced  celery,  1  pt.  tomatoes,  1  carrot  cut  up  fine,  a  few  leaves 
of  parsley,  1  bay  leaf,  2  whole  cloves.  Let  cook  1  hr.  Put  in  noo- 
dles, if  liked,  and  cook  15  minutes  longer.  Also  the  meat  cut  up 
in  small  pieces,  taken  from  the  bone. — Mrs.  Jennie  Kendall,  425  S. 
20th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Wash  2  tablespoons  of  pearl  barley  and 
cook  slowly  in  a  pt.  of  water  for  2  hrs.  Add  1  medium-sized  tur- 
nip, 3  stalks  celery,  1  carrot,  1  onion,  %.  head  of  cabbage,  all  cut 
fine;  boil  slowly  for  Ij^  hrs.,  then  add  2  potatoes,  2  qts.  rich  soup 
stock  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  another  J^  hr.,  and 
serve. — Mrs.  Henry  Hubbard,  3513  Armour  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  III. — Cover  equal  size  veal  and  beef  soup-bone 
with  water  and  bring  to  a  boil,  skim  and  set  back  on  stove  to  sim- 
mer for  3  hrs.  Add  more  water,  as  needed,  and  add  4  medium- 
sized  potatoes,  2  small  turnips,  2  carrots,  2  onions,  and  %  head 
cabbage,  chopped  fine,  chopped  parsley,  leek,  celery,  and  any  other 
desired  vegetables,  greens.  Add  1  can  tomatoes  and  J/^  hr.  before 
serving  add  ^  cup  of  rice.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Serve  hot. — ^^Mrs.  John  Murray,  Jr.,  1414  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  III. 

VARIATION  IV. — 1  qt.  of  stock,  1  good-sized  onion,  chopped, 
1  sliced  carrot,  J^  cup  of  split  peas,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  2 
tablespoons  of  flour,  mixed  with  water  to  thicken.  Parsley  makes 
an  improvement,  if  desired.  Put  the  stock  on  the  stove  about  2 
hrs.  before  using.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  vegetables,  and 
when  ready  for  use  stir  in  the  flour  and  water,  and  when  it  boils 
again,  serve. — Mrs.  K.  Harrington,  56  E.  Elm  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP  WITHOUT  MEAT.— Ij-^  cups  each 
turnips  and  carrots,  lYz  qts.  water,  1  tablespoon  salt;  boil  Ij^  hrs.; 
add  4  nice-sized  parsnips,  3  large  onions,  1  teaspoon  summer 
savory,  Q  WixXt  pepper,  butter,  and  boil  Yi  hr.  longer.    Add  I  bjjap- 


214  SOUP 

ing  tablespoon  sifted  flour  to  thicken. — Mrs.  Joshua  Harper,  5642 
Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Prepare  a  qt.  of  bran  stock,  heat  to  the  boil- 
ing point,  and  add  1  teaspoon  grated  carrot,  a  slice  of  onion  and  ^ 
cup  tomato.  Cook  together  in  a  double  boiler  J/^  hr.  Remove  the 
slice  of  onion,  add  salt  and  J^^  cup  of  turnip,  previously  cooked, 
and  cut  in  small  dice.  Cook  until  tender,  and  serve. — Mrs.  Conk- 
lin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Take  4  large  potatoes,  3  carrots,  1  good- 
sized  turnip  or  swede,  6  onions;  slice  them  all,  cover  with  water, 
pepper  and  salt,  put  on  to  boil;  when  nearly  cooked  add  a  cup  of 
rolled  oats,  with  a  lump  of  butter;  a  cup  of  cream  improves  it. 
Thicken  with  a  little  flour. — Mrs.  Hattie  Hargood,  3719  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CEREAL  VEGETABLE  SOUP.— Very  nourishing  if  carefully 
eaten,  the  body  of  soup  with  desired  flavoring  vegetable,  agrees 
with  invalid,  babies  and  nervous  dyspeptics. 

Body  of  Soup. — Use  1  part  each  of  wheat,  oats,  barley,  beans, ' 
peas,  rice,  corn  (shelled  meal,  cracked  or  cut  from  cob);  plenty  of 
water;  add  milk  or  cream.     Salt,  if  desired. 

Flavoring  vegetables. — Celery  (tops,  seeds,  roots,  stalk);  car- 
rot, tomato,  parsley,  squash,  pumpkin,  beets,  okars,  parsnips,  onion, 
turnip,  cabbage,  sage,  green  peppers,  or  any  other  vegetable;  quan- 
tities to  suit  judgment. 

Variations. — Omit  the  combine,  vegetables  and  seasoning  with 
"body  of  soup"  for  desired  taste,  richness,  and  flavor.  Bouillon 
flavor  use  excess  of  turnip  and  cabbage,  season  and  strain,  abso- 
lutely no  meat  stock  or  butter  allowed  or  required,  and  other 
variations  as  taste  suggests.  Cook  till  very  soft.  Slow  cooking 
improves  flavor. — E.  G.  Harris,  Winnetka,  111. 

VEGETABLE  PUREE.— 2  potatoes,  2  onions,  6  whole  cloves, 
a  sprig  of  parsley,  3  pts.  of  soup  stock,  1  carrot,  2  pieces  of  celery, 
6  whole  allspice,  Yz  cup  of  tomatoes;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Cover  the  vegetables  with  water.  Cook  until  tender.  Put  through 
a  sieve;  then  add  the  soup  stock;  when  boiling,  thicken  with  2 
tablespoons  of  flour,  disolved  in  water;  put  4  slices  of  lemon  in 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         215 

tureen,  and  tablespoon  of  s'herry.     Pour  soup  over,  and  serve. — 
Mrs.  Jos.  S.  Hartman,  4330  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VELVET  SOUP.— 1  qt.  of  any  kind  of  soup  stock,  1  cup 
cream,  season  to  taste.  When  boiling  hot  pour  on  the  beaten 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  diluted  with  J^  cup  cream.  Reheat  and  serve  at 
once  in  bouillon  cups. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

VERMICELLI  SOUP.— Procure  a  shin  of  beef  cut  in  3  or  4 
pieces,  wash  it  very  clean  and  put  it  in  a  soup  kettle,  with  any 
trimmings  you  may  have  of  meat,  or  poultry,  such  as  necks,  giz- 
zards, livers  or  feet;  put  on  them  a  gal.  of  cold  water,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt;  add  a  large  carrot,  grated,  a  head  of  celery,  2  tur- 
nips and  2  onions,  a  bunch  of  pot  herbs  and  J^  a  can  of  tomatoes; 
bring  to  boil,  skim  well,  and  set  aside  to  simmer  for  5  hrs.  or 
more,  if  the  meat  is  not  boiled  from  the  bones;  then  strain  off.  and 
set  away  until  next  day;  then  take  off  all  the  fat  and  set  it  over  the 
fire  an  hr.  before  dinner;  when  it  boils,  add  %  of  a  lb.  of  either 
macaroni  or  vermicelli,  broken  short,  boil  IS  minutes,  and  serve. — 
Mrs.  Helen  E.  Putnam,  4503  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Break  6  oz.  of  vermicelli  in  pieces.  Boil  un- 
til nearly  cooked  in  boiling  water  and  salt,  about  15  minutes. 
Drain  and  add  it  to  3  pts.  of  boiling  nut-meal  stock.  Boil  till 
done,  or  about  J^  hr. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — A  knuckle  of  lamb,  a  small  piece  of  veal, 
and  water  to  cover  well;  when  well  cooked,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  herbs  to  taste,  and  a  small  onion,  to  which  may  be  added 
Halford  or  Worcestershire  sauce,  about  a  tablespoon.  Have  ready 
%  lb.  vermicelli,  which  has  been  boiled  tender;  strain  soup  from 
the  meat,  add  the  vermicelli,  let  it  boil  well,  and  serve. — Mrs.  K. 
Harrington,  56  E.  Elm  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  III.— Boil  ^  lb.  of  vermicelli  until  tender,  then 
add  1  qt.  of  any  kind  of  meat  stock,  boil  together  for  a  few  min- 
utes, and  season  to  taste. — Mrs.  Joshua  Harper,  5642  Forest  Ave., 
Chicago,  111. 

WINE  SOUP.— Take  a  large,  fat  fowl,  either  chicken,  duck  or 
goose,  an  old  one  preferred.    Cut  it  up  and  break  the  l^ones  and 


216  SOUP 

boil  2y2  hrs.  in  a  gal.  of  water,  or  until  the  fowl  is  thoroughly  done. 
Add  a  little  allspice  and  a  blade  of  mace  ^^  hr.  before  it  is  done. 
Have  ready  a  cup  of  well-browned  flour,  mix  into  a  smooth  paste 
with  a  little  of  the  soup  before  adding  it  to  the  kettle,  having  first 
taken  out  the  fowl.  Crumble  the  yolks  of  6  hard  boiled  eggs,  and 
add  them  IS  minutes  before  the  soup  is  taken  off.  Just  as  it  is  ready 
to  be  served  pour  in  a  large  wineglass  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine. 
—Mrs.  Hattie  Hargrow,  3719  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

WHITE  SOUP.— Cut  up  1  large  chicken,  put  it  into  a  soup 
pot  with  %  gal.  cold  water  and  1  lb.  of  veal  from  the  leg,  cut  in 
squares.  When  meat  is  quite  done  and  tender,  take  out  of  the 
soup  and  grind  it  in  a  meat  cutter;  with  this  mix  1  pt.  of  bread 
crumbs  which  have  been  soaked  in  1  pt.  of  boiling  milk  and  the 
yolks  of  6  hard-boiled  eggs  made  into  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little 
cold  water  and  a  ^2  teaspoon  of  the  extract  of  almonds.  Strain 
the  soup,  removing  the  chicken  and  veal,  and  mix  very  gradually 
with  the  paste,  putting  only  a  little  of  the  hot  liquid  on  at  a  time. 
Put  the  soup  back  on  the  stove  and  bring  to  a  slow  boil  for  a  few 
minutes,  and  just  before  serving  pour  into  the  soup  a  pt.  of  heated 
cream. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  large  knuckle  of  veal,  thoroughly  cracked, 
3  qts.  of  cold  water,  1  tablespoon  salt.  As  it  boils  skim  well,  and 
add  1  scraped  carrot,  1  white  turnip,  3  leeks,  1  parsley  root  and  2 
white  stalks  of  celery.  Boil  slowly  for  6  hrs.,  then  strain  through 
a  wet  cloth  into  a  stone  jar,  and  when  cold  remove  all  fat.  Take 
a  very  small  head  of  firm,  white  cabbage,  shred  it  fine  and  put  in 
a  pan  in  which  1  tablespoon  of  butter  is  bubbling;  covering  closely 
for  a  few  minutes.  Then  add  1  pt.  of  water,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  J^ 
teaspoon  of  white  pepper,  and  stew  J^  an  hr.  Put  mixture  through 
a  puree  sieve.  Bring  the  white  broth  to  boiling  point,  in  the 
meantime  making  a  thickening  of  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  1 
tablespoon  butter.  Stir  until  smooth,  but  not  brown.  Add  boil- 
ing soup  slowly  and  stir  constantly,  until  creamy.  Then  pour  into 
the  soup  and  add  the  puree  of  cabbage  and  l4  coffee  cup  of  cream, 
—Mrs.  F.  V.  Holridge,  4106  Calumet  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SOUP  WITHOUT  STOCK.— Take  ^  teaspoon  of  oat  flake, 
in  3  cups  of  cold  water.  Put  over  the  fire  an  hour  and  a  half  be- 
fore soup  is  to  be  served.    Bring  to  a  boil  and  cook  steadily,  stir- 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         217 

ring  frequently.  When  it  is  cooked  to  a  clear,  thin  paste,  add  a 
qt.  of  cooked  tomatoes,  a  little  thickening,  if  desired,  and  season 
with  a  pinch  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  celery  seed-,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  This  makes  a  delightfully  smooth  and  palatable  soup.  To 
it  may  be  added  sliced  potatoes  rice,  barley,  spaghetti,  or  small 
squares  of  crisp  toast.  If  bisque  is  desired,  add  a  pinch  of  soda 
before  putting  in  the  milk. — Mrs.  Jas.  S.  Hartman,  4330  Michigan 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

THICKENINGS  FOR  SOUPS.— Soups  are  thickened  with 
flour,  corn  starch  or  rice  flour,  1  tablespoon  for  each  qt.  of  soup, 
heaping,  if  flour  is  used;  scant,  if  rice  flour  or  corn  starch.  Mix 
flour  with  cold  water  to  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  liquid  until  it  is 
easily  poured  into  soup.  Let  it  boil  20  minutes.  If  butter  is  used, 
put  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  bubbling  stir  in  flour  quickly  until 
smooth;  then  add  gradually  1  cup  of  hot  soup;  it  should  be  thin 
enough  to  pour.  In  vegetable  soups  or  purees,  as  soon  as  butter 
and  flour  are  'blended  it  can  be  added  to  the  soup.  If  a  brown 
thickening  is  desired,  melt  the  butter  and  let  it  become  brown, 
then  add  the  flour  at  once,  and  stir  quickly.  Add  water  or  soup 
gradually.  Flour  that  is  browned  while  dry  colors,  but  does  not 
thicken.  Thickened  soups  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  good 
cream.  Purees  are  thicker. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 


FISH 


BAKED  FISH. — Skin  and  bone  a  whole  white  or  other  fresh 
fish;  put  fish  in  a  deep  dish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  put  1  in. 
cracker  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  on  top;  Yi  cup  milk  poured  over 
carefully.  Bake  1  hr.  Serve  with  slices  of  lemon. — Mrs.  Jeannie 
Kendall,  Maywood,  111. 

TO  STUFF  AND  BAKE  FISH.— Soak  stale  bread  in  cold  wa- 
ter  until  soft,  drain,  and  mash  fine;  stir  in  a  spoonful  of  drawn  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  2  eggs  and  spices,  if  liked.  Fill  the  fish 
with  this  mixture,  and  sew  it  up.  Put  a  little  water  in  baking  pan, 
with  a  snrall  lump  of  butter,  place  the  fish  in  this,  and  bake  40 
minutes.  Bass,  shad,  and  fresh  cod,  are  all  good  baked. — Mrs.  M. 
Abbott,  2110  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  FISH.— Clean,  cut  and  drain  a  2-lb.  pike  or  trout 
into  3  pieces.  Put  2  cups  of  water  and  1  large  sliced  onion  in  a 
pot,  season  with  4  whole  allspice,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Blend 
1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  a  lump  of  butter,  and  stir  into  the  liquid. 
Put  fish  into  the  liquor  carefully.  Simmer  15  minutes  with  lid 
partly  on.  Serve  with  parsley.  Enough  for  4  people. — Mrs.  F.  E. 
Glower,  1103  S.  7th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Put  a  small  onion  inside  the  fish  and  tie  it 
up  in  a  cloth,  cover  with  cold  water;  throw  in  a  few  peppercorns 
and  salt;  heat  to  the  boiling  point  (from  2  to  3  minutes'  boiling  is 
sufficient  for  t'he  largest  fish,  and  a  small  one  will  not  require  more 
than  1  minute).  Fish  boiled  in  this  way  is  incomparably  better 
than  when  boiled  longer.  Boiling  salt  water  is  best  for  salmon,  as 
it  sets  the  color.  Serve  with  sauce. — Mrs.  Bianca  Pessinger,  May- 
wood,  111. 

BROILED  FISH.— This  recipe  will  answer  for  the  broiling 
of  all  kinds  of  fish.  Scale,  and  split  the  fish  down  the  back,  wash, 
and  dry  it,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  it  on  a  wire  broiler;  if 
a  pan  is  used  grease  it  with  beef  or  pork  drippings  or  butter,  fold- 

218 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         219 

ing  over  the  thin  middle  portion  so  as  to  have  the  fish  of  an  even 
thickness;  always  broil  the  flesh  side  first  with  butter.  Hold  it 
near  a  perfectly  clear  fire,  until  nicely  browned;  turn,  and  brown 
the  skin  side.  Then  lift  the  broiler,  either  with  a  broiler  stand,  or 
with  a  couple  of  bricks,  at  least  6  or  8  inches  from  the  fire,  and 
broil  slowly  on  the  flesh  side  20  minutes;  then  turn  and  broil  on 
the  skin  side  about  10  minutes.  Be  careful  not  to  burn.  Baste  it 
with  butter,  and  serve  at  once.  Squeeze  juice  of  1  lemon  over  be- 
fore sending  to  table. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Anderson,  3647  Forest  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

BAKED  CHOWDER.— Fry  a  small  sliced  onion  in  a  large 
spoonful  of  butter;  strain,  and  return  butter  to  the  frying-pan. 
Have  ready  2  lbs.  of  cod,  or  other  firm  fis'h,  cut  into  inch  squares; 
put  into  the  hot  butter,  and  toss  and  turn  until  they  are  well  coated; 
pack  the  fish  in  a  buttered  bake-dish  alternately  with  slices  of  par- 
boiled potatoes,  Yi  lb.  fat  salt  pork,  minced  fine,  bits  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  minced  parsley,  and  2  tomatoes,  chopped.  Season 
a  large  cupful  of  oyster  liquor  with  paprika  and  salt,  and  pour  over 
all.  Cover  with  split  Boston  crackers,  soaked  in  milk  for  half  an 
hr.,  fit  on  a  lid,  and  bake,  covered,  1  hr.  Then  brown. — Mrs.  M.  L. 
Baker,  3560  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FISH  CREAM.— ^  lb.  of  filleted  fish,  2  ozs.  bread' crumbs,  2 
eggs,  1  teacup  of  boiling  milk,  Y-i  oz.  of  butter,  juice  of  ^  a  lemon, 
grating  of  nutmeg,  a  little  curry  powder,  pepper  and  salt.  Partly 
boil  the  fish,  then  pound  it;  mix  all  ingredients  with  it;  put  into 
mould,  and  steam  40  minutes.  Serve  with  parsley  sauce. — Mrs.  S. 
A.  Yoho,  3129  Indiana  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FISH  A  LA  CREME.— Take  cold  boiled  salmon,  halibut, 
whitefish,  or  any  cold  fish,  remove  the  skin  and  bones,  flake  it. 
Boil  1  pt.  of  milk,  and  mix  Ij/^  tablespoons  of  flour  with  a  little 
cold  milk,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk,  until  it  thickens.  Butter 
a  bake-dish,  put  in  first  a  layer  of  fish,  then  of  fine  'bread  crumbs^ 
and  then  the  dressing,  and  continue  alternately  until  all  the  fish  is 
used  up;  add  salt  and  a  little  pepper,  put  all  the  dressing  on,  and 
sift  bread  crumbs  on  the  top,  and,  if  liked,  add  a  little  grated 
cheese.  Bake  1  hr. — Mrs.  M.  Warren,  3406  S.  State  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 


220  FISH 

FISH  CUTLETS.— Mince  cold  fboiled  or  baked  salmon,  had- 
dock, cod,  or  any  other  firm-fleshed  fish.  Season  to  taste,  and  mix 
well  with  a  little  rich  drawn  butter,  made  quite  thick  with  corn 
starch.  Spread  upon  a  broad  platter,  and  when  stiff,  cut  into  the 
desired  shape  with  a  "tin"  form.  Roll  in  fine  crumbs,  then  into 
egg,  and  in  cracker  crumbs  again.  Leave  on  the  ice  to  get  firm, 
and  fry  in  deep  boiling  cottolene,  or  other  fat,  which  has  been 
heated  slowly.— Mrs.  Goldie  Vogel,  818  W.  Van  Buren  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

DEVILED  FISH.— 1  lb.  of  fish,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  3  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  1  ta'blespoon  of  parsley,  J^  pt.  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of 
flour,  1  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Boil  the  fish 
and  pick  it  apart  in  good-sized  flakes.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour 
together;  add  the  milk,  and  stir,  until  boiling.  Chop  the  eggs 
very  fine,  or  put  them  through  a  vegetable  press;  add  parsley,  salt 
and  pepper;  then  fold  in  carefully  the  fish.  Fill  this  into  small 
shells — clam  or  oyster  shells  will  answer.  When  cool,  cover  the  top 
with  beaten  egg,  dust  with  bread  crumbs,  being  very  careful  to 
thoroughly  cover  the  edges  where  the  mixture  and  shell  come  to- 
gether. At  serving  time,  put  them  a  few  at  a  time  in  a  frying 
basket,  and  plunge  them  into  boiling  hot  fat.  Serve  plain,  or  with 
tartar  or  cucumber  sauce. — ^^Mrs.  G.  Salmon,  2358  Indiana  Ave, 
Chicago,  111. 

FILLETS  OF  FISH.— Use  a  whitefish,  rock  or  black  bass. 
After  the  fish  has  been  scaled  and  cleaned  out,  put  your  hand 
firmly  on  the  fish,  and  with  a  sharp  knife,  cut  from  the  tail  to  the 
head,  just  as  near  the  Ibone  as  possible,  removing  all  the  flesh. 
Turn  the  fish  on  the  other  side,  and  repeat.  In  this  way  you  will 
remove  all  the  bones.  Cut  the  fish  into  strips  all  the  way  across, 
and  about  1  inch  wide.  Roll  and  fasten  with  a,  wooden  skewer. 
Have  ready  a  deep  pan  of  hot  fat.  Put  ^  doz.  of  these  rolls  in 
your  frying  basket,  and  plunge  them  into  the  hot  fat;  they  will 
quickly  curl  tighter,  and  will  cook  in  about  3  minutes.  Drain  on 
brown  paper;  dust  with  salt;  arrange  on  a  napkin;  garnish  with 
parsley  and  lemon. — ^Mrs.  Wm.  Patton,  5120  Indiana  Ave.,  Chicago, 
111. 

FRIED  FISH.— Wash,  and  carefully  dry,  roll  in  flour  and  dip 
in  a  dish,  into  which  an  egg  has  been  broken.     Have  the  fat  smok- 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         221 

ing  hot,  and  just  before  dropping  in  the  fish,  roll  it  in  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  thoroughly,  covering  all  openings,  so  that  the 
fat  cannot  enter. — Mrs.  L.  N.  Powell,  3513  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

FISH  STEAKS  FRIED.— Cut  the  slices  of  fresh  fish  ^  of  an 
inch  thick,  dredge  with  flour  or  cornmeal  slightly  salted,  or  dip 
them  in  egg  slightly  salted,  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs;  fry  a  light 
brown. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRICASEE  OF  FISH.— Use  1  lb.  of  black  bass  or  yellow 
perch;  wash,  cut  off  the  head  and  tail;  cut  the  fish  into  slices  about 
2  inches  wide.  Into  a  saucepan,  put  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  and 
1  chopped  onion.  Cook  until  onion  is  soft,  and  add  just  a  sus- 
picion of  garlic.  Put  in  the  fish,  cover  the  saucepan,  allowing  the 
fish  to  cook  for  about  10  minutes.  Pour  over  it  1  pt.  of  strained 
tomatoes;  add  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  a  teaspoon  of  salt, 
and  a  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Cook  5  minutes  more,  and  serve. — 
Mrs.  C.  Jones,  3569  Rhodes  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

KEDGEREL  (East  Indian  dish).— 1  cup  cooked  and  flaked 
fish,  1  cup  cooked  rice,  1  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper,  2  tea- 
spoons lemon  juice,  1  tgg,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  tablespoon 
mixed  parsley;  mix  ingredients,  pack  into  bowl,  surround  with  hot 
water,  cover,  steam  till  done,  unmould,  garnish  with  parsley. — Mrs. 
Mary  Kemp,  3226  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FISH  LOAF. — Mix  thoroughly  1  can  salmon,  or  other  canned 
or  cold  fish,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  J^  teaspoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon 
salt  and  pepper,  2  teaspoons  vinegar,  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice.  Put 
mixture  into  dish,  add  beaten  egg,  and  steam  or  bake  30  minutes. — 
Mrs.  M.  Logan,  2841  S.  Park  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PLANKED  FISH  IN  FRONT  OF  A  WOOD  FIRE.— For 

this  select  whitefish  or  shad,  although  any  *whitefish  is  good 
planked.  Secure  a  plank  the  size  of  your  oven,  or  one  that  will  fit 
the  'broiling  chamber  of  the  gas  stove.  The  plank  must  be  at  least 
1  inch  thick,  a  little  wider  than  the  fish,  as  long  as  the  oven,  and 
composed  of  hardwood,  as  oak,  hickory  or  ash.  Put  the  plank 
before  the  fire  until  very  hot.  Split  the  fish  down  the  back,  wash 
and  wipe  dry,  baste  with  butter,  and  dust  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  the  fish  on  the  plank,  skin  side  down,  folding  the  thin  middlf 


222  FISH 

portion  over,  and  bringing  the  two  halves  together.  Drive  two 
medium-sized  nails  at  the  head  of  the  fish,  and  one  at  the  tail. 
Rear  it  up  in  front  of  a  good,  clear,  strong  wood  fire;  baste  occa- 
sionally with  melted  'butter,  and  cook  for  at  least  H  hr.,  until  the 
fish  is  a  good,  dark  brown.  Serve  at  once  on  the  plank;  garnish 
with  parsley  and  lemon.  Cucumber  or  lettuce  salad,  and  creamed 
potatoes  are  the  usual  accompaniments. — Mabel  Sturtevant  105  S 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

PANADA  FOR  FISH.— Boil  1  oz.  of  butter  and  about  1^  to 

2  gills  of  water  together,  add  gradually  %  lb.  of  flour;  stir  until 
smooth,  but  do  not  let  it  burn.     Take  ofif  the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of 

3  well-beaten  eggs. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

FISH  PUDDING.— %  of  a  lb.  of  cold  white  or  other  preferred 
fish,  2  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs,  lump  of  butter  size  of  small 
^SSy  %  pt.  of  milk,  1  Qgg,  pepper  and  salt,  teaspoon  of  anchovy 
essence,  and  at  little  chopped  parsley.  Prepare  greased  mould, 
and,  if  liked,  line  it  with  browned  bread  crumbs.  Flake  the  fish, 
and  add  all  dry  ingredients.  Mix  with  anchovy  essence,  melted 
butter,  beaten  e^g  and  milk.  Put  mixture  into  the  mould,  cover 
with  greased  paper,  and  steam  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  for 
1  hr.,  and  serve  with  sauce,  if  liked. — Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Gaines,  3148 
Groveland  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Take  a  lb.  of  any  cold  fish  free  of  bones,  the 
same  amount  of  potatoes,  an  oz.  of  butter,  and  2  well-beaten  eggs, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  parsley  added  is  nice.  Mix 
thoroughly,  and  put  all  into  a  well-greased  bowl  or  basin,  and  bake 
in  oven  for  30  minutes.  A  tin  of  salmon  prepared  this  way  is  very 
nice.— Mrs.  B.  Haley,  641  N.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

STEWED  FISH.— An  excellent  way  to  cook  any  fish,  espe- 
cially pike;  put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan;  when  hot, 
lay  the  fish  in  with'  the  outside  down;  take  6  onions,  slice  and  lay 
on  the  top  of  fish,  sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  tight, 
and  allow  to  cook  20  minutes  or  5^  an  hr.  If  it  should  cook  dry, 
add  a  very  little  water.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Emma  S.  Stone,  5242  S. 
Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SCALLOPED  FISH.— Mix  1  cup  flaked  fish,  1  cup  stale  bread 
crumbs,  1  cup  milk,  %-  teaspoon  salt,  1/16  teaspoon  pepper,  J^  a 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         223 

tablespoon  butter;  put  in  buttered  dish,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  30  to  40  minutes. — Mrs.  John  Rig- 
gins,  3403  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

FISH  TURBOT.— Steam  1  medium-sized  whitefish  20  minutes, 
pick  fine.  Boil  1  pt.  milk  with  Y^  an  onion,  then  thicken  with  flour. 
When  cold,  add  2  eggs,  K  lb.  of  butter,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley, 
and  an  onion,  minced.  Put  in  a  dish  a  layer  of  fish,  and  then  a 
layer  of  dressing,  till  all  is  used,  cover  with  cracker  crumbs,  bits  of 
butter,  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  bake. — Sophia  Mason,  3030  Cottage 
Grove  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Cook  a  4-lb.  fish  in  salted  water  to  which 
spices,  parsley  and  celery  have  been  added.  Pour  in  1  cup  of  vin- 
egar. Let  the  fish  become  cold  and  pick  into  small  pieces,  remov- 
ing the  bones  and  skin.  Make  a  dressing  of  a  cup  of  milk,  2  table- 
spoons of  flour,  1  cup  of  sweet  cream,  pepper  and  salt.  Cook  10 
minutes;  mix  it  with  the  fish,  stirring  a  little  parsley  over  the  mix- 
ture. Grease  a  pudding  form,  fill  with  the  mixture.  Cover  the 
top  with  crackers,  rolled  fine,  and  browned  in  butter. — Mrs.  E.  D. 
Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Take  2  cups  of  flaked  fish,  1  cup 
rolled  and  sifted  shredded  wheat  biscuit  crumbs,  4  table- 
spoons of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  pepper,  and  J4  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Butter  a  pudding  dish,  cover  with  crumbs,  layer  of  fish,  pepper, 
butter,  and  sauce  made  from  2  tablespoons  each  of  wheat  flour  and 
butter,  salt  and  milk.  Boil  till  it  thickens.  Proceed  in  this  way 
until  the  fish  is  filled,  finishing  with  crumbs,  and  dress  with  butter. 
Bake  slowly  40  minutes. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

FISH  ON  TOAST.— 2  cups  codfish,  or  any  cold  left-over  fish, 

1  pt.  milk,  2  tablespoons  corn  starch,  2  tablespoons  butter,  pepper, 

2  hard-boiled  eggs.  Heat  milk  to  boiling  point,  add  corn  starch, 
butter  and  pepper;  cook  for  5  minutes.  Prepare  buttered  toasf, 
place  fish  on  it,  cover  with  the  milk,  etc.,  and  garnish  with  sliced 
egg.— Mrs.  H.  B.  Wright,  3813  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  BASS. — Make  a  filling  of  pounded  cracker  or  crumbs 
of  bread,  an  ^ZZ,  pepper,  clove,  salt  and  butter.  Fill  it  very  full, 
sew  up,  grate  small  nutmeg  over  it  and  sprinkle  with  pounded 
cracker.  Then  pour  on  the  white  of  an  egg  and  a  little  melted  but- 


224  FISH 

ter.  Bake  it  an  hr.  in  the  same  dish  in  Which  it  is  to  be  served. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

BOILED  BLACK  BASS  WITH  CREAM  GRAVY.— Put  in  a 

pot  enough  slightly  salted  water  to  cover  the  fish,  add  a  gill  of 
vinegar,  an  onion,  8  whole  peppers,  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Sew  up 
the  fish  in  a  piece  of  thin  cheesecloth  fitted  snugly  to  it.  Lay  in  the 
water.,  bring  very  slowly  to  the  simmering  point,  and  then  boil 
steadily,  allowing  12  minutes  to  each  lb.  of  the  fish.  When  done, 
remove  the  cloth,  lay  the  fish  on  a  platter,  garnished  with  sliced 
lemon,  and  serve  with  the  cream  following  gravy: 

CREAM  GRAVY  FOR  BLACK  BASS.— Cook  together  a  ta- 
blespoon each  of  butter  and  flour,  and  when  blended,  strain  slowly 
upon  them  a  cup  of  the  water  in  which  the  bass  was  boiled,  and 
stir  until  smooth  and  thick.  Season  to  taste  with  celery  salt,  and 
white  pepper,  and  stir  in  a  gill  of  cream,  to  which  a  pinch  of  bak- 
ing soda  has  been  added.  Make  very  hot,  but  do  not  boil,  and  as 
soon  as  hot,  remove  from  the  fire. — Mrs.  Albert  Gardner,  3122  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRIED  BASS  WITH  BACON.— Clean,  season  well  with  pep- 
per and  salt  a  required  number  of  bass.  Roll  them  in  flour,  and 
drop  into  a  pan  of  very  hot  lard  or  ko-nut,  and  fry  a  golden  brown. 
In  another  pan  fry  as  many  slices  of  bacon  as  fish.  Lay  on  the  fish 
and  garnish  with  parsley. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

STUFFED  SEA  BASS.— Clean,  wipe,  and  lay  for  an  hr,  in  a 
marinade  of  salad  oil  and  vinegar.  Fill  with  a  forcemeat  of  salt 
pork,  minced,  and  chopped  champignons.  Fresh  mushrooms  are, 
of  course,  better,  if  you  can  get  them.  Bake  upon  shavings  of  fat 
salt  pork.  When  it  has  baked  40  minutes,  cover  with  fresh  toma- 
toes, peeled  and  sliced  thin,  and  half  a  sweet  green  pepper,  minced. 
Drop  bits  of  butter  upon  the  tomatoes  and  bake  20  minutes  longer. 
Take  up  the  fish,  and  keep  hot,  while  you  strain  the  gravy  left  in 
the  pan,  rubbing  the  tomatoes  and  pepper  through  a  colander;  stir 
in  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour,  add  a  teaspoon  of  sugar, 
and  2  of  lemon  juice,  with  hot  water,  if  too  thick;  boil  1  minute; 
pour  half  over  the  fish,  the  rest  into  a  saucepan. — Mrs.  E.  Harris, 
4108  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  225 

BAKED  BLUE  FISH.— This  recipe  will  answer  for  all  sorts 
of  fish,  except  carp.  Have  the  fish  opened  at  the  gills,  and  the  in- 
testines drawn  out  through  the  opening.  Make  a  stuffing  of  Yz 
pt.  of  bread  crumbs,  a  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Mix  the  ingredients,  fill  into  the  fish, 
and  sew  down  the  head  firmly.  If  you  use  pork,  cut  the  fish  into 
gashes,  2  inches  apart,  and  all  the  way  across  on  one  side  down  to 
the  bone;  fill  the  gashes  with  larding  pork,  dust  the  fish  thickly 
with  bread  crumbs,  baste  it  over  with  a  little  melted  butter,  put  a 
54  cup  of  water  in  the  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  1  hr., 
basting  frequently.  Dish  the  fish  carefully,  using  a  long  fish  slice; 
garnish  it  with  parsley  and  lemon,  and  serve  with  brown  or  tomato 
sauce. — Mrs.  George  McMinn,  3138  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CARP  A  LA  PROVENCALE.— Cut  in  square  pieces  put  into 
a  saucepan  with  4  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  a  J^  pt.  of  claret,  and  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^%z,  well  mixed  in  advance  with  a 
tablespoon  of  flour,  salt,  and  pepper,  parsley,  1  shallot,  and  1  clove 
of  garlic,  chopped  together,  and  a  ^  of  a  lb.  of  mushrooms.  Add 
these  in  the  saucepan.  Put  over  a  good  fire,  cook  for  20  minutes, 
and  serve. — Mrs.  B.  Cross,  533  E.  43rd  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRIED  CATFISH.— Skin  and  clean;  lay  the  fish  in  very  cold 
water  for  a  few  minutes,  then  wipe  them  dry.  Dredge  thoroughly 
with  flour,  or  roll  them  first  in  beaten  ^zZy  then  in  cracker  crumbs, 
and  fry  to  a  delicate  brown. — Mrs.  C.  Jackson,  2721  S.  Wabash 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAMED  CLAMS.— Drain  the  liquor  from  a  pt.  of  opened 
clams,  and  set  the  clams  and  liquor  on  the  range  in  separate  double 
boilers  to  heat.  Cook  together  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  and 
the  same  of  flour,  until  they  (bubble,  then  pour  upon  them  the 
heated  liquor,  and  cook  until  smooth  and  thick.  Have  ready  in 
another  vessel,  a  pt.  of  hot  cream,  in  which  a  pinch  of  soda  has 
been  dissolved.  Pour  this  gradually  upon  a  beaten  t^z,  and  return 
to  the  fire  for  a  minute,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the  chopped  and 
heated  clams  to  the  thickened  liquor,  season  with  paprika,  stir  grad- 
ually into  the  hot  eggs  and  cream,  and  pour  upon  squares  of  lightly 
buttered  toast. — Mrs.  Geo.  C.  Miller,  3445  Indiana  Ave.,  Chicago, 
111. 


226  FISH 

DEVILED  CLAMS.— Slice  an  onion,  and  fry  it  to  a  ligrht 
brown  in  a  large  spoonful  of  butter.  Strain  out  the  onion,  and  put 
the  hot  butter  back  upon  the  fire.  Chop  2  large  (peeled)  tomatoes 
fine,  season  with  salt,  ^  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  a  good  dash  of  pap- 
rika, and  the  same  of  nutmeg.  Stir  into  the  hissing  butter;  stir  for 
3  minutes,  and  add  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  rolled  in  half  as  much 
flour.  Have  ready  the  clams,  drained  and  chopped  fine,  and  mix 
them  with  the  butter  and  tomatoes.  Fill  buttered  scallop  shells 
or  clam  shells,  or  a  buttered  pudding  dish  with  the  mixture;  sift 
fine  crushed  cracker  all  over,  dropping  tiny  dabs  of  butter  on  top, 
and  cook  until  delicately  browned. — Mrs.  Mary  R.  Smith,  3312 
Rhodes  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRIED  CLAMS. — Drain  the  clams,  and  dry  them  by  laying 
them  on  a  soft  napkin.  Season  with  a  dust  of  paprika.  Beat  2 
eggs  light  in  a  soup  plate,  and  have  ready  in  another  deep  plate  an 
abundance  of  cracker  crumbs.  Dip  each  clam  in  the  egg,  and  then 
in  the  crumbs,  until  thoroughly  coated.  Lay  side  by  side  on  a 
large  platter,  and  set  in  a  cold  place  for  an  hr.  Fry  in  deep  boilmg 
cottolene,  or  other  fat,  to  a  golden  brown,  drain  in  a  colander,  then 
transfer  to  a  hot  platter.  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon,  and  sprigs 
of  parsley. — Mrs.  D.  West,  3437  Vernon  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CLAM  FRITTERS.— Strain  1  doz.  clams,  saving  the  juice.  Add 
to  this  juice  enough  water  to  make  a  pt.  Mix  into  it  2  eggs,  and 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  batter.  Chop  clams,  and  add  with  a  little 
salt.  Drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  in  boiling  lard. — Mrs.  M.  Abbott, 
2110  Dearborn  J^ve.,  Chicago,  111. 

CLAM  PIE. — Cut  salt  pork  into  dice  and  fry  brown.  Slice 
potatoes  and  onions,  and  boil  until  tender  in  milk  to  cover.  Into 
a  buttered  pudding  dish,  put  a  layer  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs, 
then  a  layer  of  clams,  a  little  of  the  fried  salt  pork,  a  layer  of  boiled 
potatoes  and  onions,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  a  little  mace,  and 
moisten  with  a  little  of  the  clam  liquor.  Bake. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Alex- 
ander, 3717  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

LITTLE-NECK  CLAMS  SERVED  RAW.— Wash  well  and 
dry  them.  Open  and  cut  them  from  their  shell.  Place  5  or  6  on 
a  plate  on  the  half  shells  on  top  of  cracked  ice.  Put  ^2  a  lemon  in 
the  center  of  the  plate.    Serve  with  crackers  and  a  small  dish  of 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  227 

finely-chopped  cabbage,  with  fresh  dressing. — Mrs.   C.  J.  Jeffries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

ROASTED  CLAMS.— Wash  and  lay  them  on  a  gridiron  over 
the  hot  coals.  As  soon  as  the  shells  open  take  off  the  top  shell 
and  place  a  little  butter  and  pepper  on  them. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

SCALLOPED  CLAMS.— Select  1  doz.  large  clams  in  the  shell, 
and  2  doz.  soft  ones.  Use  care  not  to  injure  the  shells,  which  are 
to  be  used  in  cooking.  Clean  the  shells  well,  and  put  2  soft  clams 
into  each  one.  Add  to  each  a  touch  of  white  pepper,  and  Ij/^  tea- 
spoons of  minced  celery.  Cut  into  small  dice  a  few  slices  of  bacon, 
and  add  4  of  these  to  each  shell;  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the 
top,  put  a  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each,  and  bake  in  the  oven  till 
brown.— Mrs.  A.  D.  Allen,  2351  S.  State  St.,  Chicago  111. 

STEAMED  CLAMS  (New  England  Style).— Scrub  the  clams; 
place,  when  clean,  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  without  any  water, 
and  heat  until  the  shells  open.  Take  out  the  clams  and  pour  the 
liquor  into  jar  to  settle.  Remove  the  clams  from  their  shells, 
pulling  off  the  thin  skin  round  the  edge,  and  cutting  off  the  black 
end.  When  the  water  has  settled,  pour  it  into  a  saucepan,  add  the 
cl^ms  and  heat,  but  do  not  "boil.  Take  out  the  clams  and  serve  on 
brown  bread. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

BAKED  COD. — Lay  the  middle  part  of  a  large  codfish  or  a 
whole  small  one  in  cold,  salted  water,  for  Yz,  an  hr.,  wipe  dry,  and 
stuff  with  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper,  2  cups  of  boiled 
salt  pork,  finely  chopped,  1  tablespoon  of  herbs — sweet  marjoram, 
thyme,  a  little  minced  onion,  1  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce, 
Yi  cup  of  melted  butter,  juice  of  Yz  lemon,  and  1  beaten  egg.  Lay 
in  the  baking  dish,  pour  over  it  Yz  cup  of  melted  butter,  season  with 
the  salt.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  1  hr.  or  so.  When  the  fish 
is  done,  strain  the  gravy  over  and  serve. — ^^Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

BAKED  COD'S  HEAD.— Head  and  portion  of  the  shoulders 
of  cod,  1  teaspoon  of  onion  juice;  Yz  lb.  of  veal  or  chrcken,  1 
tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoon  of  salt," and  1  teaspoon 
of  pepper.    Trim  and  wash  the  fish;  chop  the  veal,  adding  to  it  the 


228  FISH 

salt,  pepper,  parsley  and  onion  juice;  fill  this  into  the  fish,  put  into 
a  baking  pan,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  add  y^  cup  of  water* 
to  the  pan,  and  4  tablespoons  of  white  wine.  Run  into  a  moder- 
ately hot  oven,  and  bake  M  of  an  hr.,  basting  frequently.  When 
the  head  is  nearly  done,  remove  the  paper,  baste  with  melted  but- 
ter, and  dust  thickly  with  browned  'bread  crumbs.  When  done, 
dish  and  serve  with  brown  sauce  in  a  boat. — ^Mrs.  C.  E.  Anderson, 
3647  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

COD  FISH  BALLS.— If  salt  cod  is  used,  shred  it  finely  and 
soak  for  6  hrs.  Boil  Yi  an  hr.,  and  let  cool.  Mash  potatoes  to  a 
cream;  allowing  half  as  much  potato  as  you  have  fish.  Mix  and 
heat  by  setting  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire,  stirring  fre- 
quently. When  hot,  beat  in  an  egg,  whip  the  mixture  smooth;  let 
the  paste  get  cold,  make  into  cakes  or  balls,  roll  in  flour,  and  set 
on  ice  the  night  before.  In  the  morning  fry  in  deep  boiling  beef 
dripping,  clarified,  or  other  fat;  cold  fresh  cod  makes  delicious 
balls.  Proceed  as  with  the  salt  cod,  leaving  out  the  soaking,  and 
salting  to  taste. — ^Mrs.  L.  B.  Anderson,  2821  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

BROILED  COD'S  TONGUES  AND  SOUNDS.— Wash  the 

tongues  and'  sounds;  throw  them  into  cold  water,  and  soak  over 
night;  then  drain,  throw  them  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and 
boil  for  10  minutes.  When  done,  drain.  Dip  them  in  melted 
butter,  and  dust  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  each  on  a  narrow 
piece  of  toast,  pour  over  cream,  or  t^^  sauce,  and  serve.  Cod's 
tongues  may  also  t)e  dipped  in  t.^^  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fried  in 
very  hot  fat;  served  plain  or  with  tomato  sauce. — ^Mrs.  R.  Appel, 
4922  Vincennes  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAMED  FRESH  CODFISH.— Pick  (not  shred)  1  cup  of 
codfish,  place  in  a  spider,  fill  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Stir  a 
moment  over  the  fire  and  drain  off  the  water.  Stand  on  the  stove, 
cover  with  Xy^  pts.  of  milk  and  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter.  Stir 
into  a  cup  of  cream,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  when  the  milk  on 
the  stove  is  about  to  boil,  mix  this  with  it.  When  the  mixture 
thickens,  stir  into  it  1  egg.  Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

CRIMPED  COD.— Take  a  vety  fresh  cod,  cut  into  the  bone 
on  both  sides,  with  a/bout  2  inches  between  each  slice,  then  lay  it 


OOOK  COUNTY  COOR  BOOK         229 

in  cold  water,  witli  a  little  vinegar  in  it,  for  about  2  hrs.  Put  it 
on  in  boiling  salted  water,  and  boil  gently  till  done;  drain,  and 
serve  immediately,  with  parsley  and  butter  sauce. — Mrs.  Frank  P. 
Arnold,  14  E.  42nd  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CUTLETS  OF  COD.— Cut  up  3  lbs.  of  fish  into  strips,  dry 
them  with  a  clean  cloth,  rub  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip 
the  slices  in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in  1  handful  fine  bread  crumbs, 
which  is  mixed  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  minced  parsley. 
Fry  in  enough  fat  to  cover.  Drain  away  every  drop  of  fat  and 
lay  the  cutlets  on  a  napkin  on  a  hot  dish. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka,  III. 

CODFISH  FRITTERS.— Boil  Vi  lb.  codfish^,  cut  fine,  and  4 
medium-sized  sliced  potatoes  together  till  the  potatoes  are 
cooked.  *Mash  together  and  beat  lightly;  add  2  eggs,  well  beaten, 
and  fry  brown  on  a  griddle,  like  pancakes. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

CODFISH  GRAVY.— Pick  apart  about  1  lb.  codfish.  Boil  a 
few  minutes  in  fresh  water,  and  when  tender,  drain  off  the  water, 
and  add  1  qt.  milk.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  some  thicken- 
ing, or  add  2  or  5  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced  fine. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Baker, 
3560  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PICKED  CODFISH.— Pick  the  fish  in  small  particles,  sepa- 
rating the  fibers  as  near  as  possible.  Freshen  by  leaving  it  in 
water  1  hr.  Pour  off  the  water  and  cover  again  with  fish.  Bring 
to  a  scald,  and  pour  it  off.  Pour  enough  milk  over  to  cover  the 
fish.  Add  to  a  qt.  of  the  soaked  fish,  butter  size  of  ^2  an  egg,  a.  very 
little  flour,  and  a  dust  of  pepper.  Take  off  the  fish,  thicken  it  with 
2  beaten  eggs. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CODFISH  PUDDING.— Mix  together  1  cup  codfish,  picked 
fine,  2  cups  mashed  potatoes,  1  pt.  cream  or  milk,  2  eggs,  beaten, 
y2  cup  butter,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  mix  well.  Bake  in  a 
baking-dish  20  to  25  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Barber,  3235  South 
Park  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

COD'S  ROE. — Shave  smoked  cod's  roe  into  small  pieces,  put 
it  into  a  saucepan  with  butter  and  a  little  pepper.  Stir  well  over 
the  fire,  and  pour  it  on  pieces  of  toast,  cut  diamond-shaped. — Mrs. 
E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 


250  FISH 

CODFISH  SOUFFLE.—Pick  apart  5^  lb.,  wash  well  in  cold 
water;  cover  it  with  boiling  water,  and  let  it  stand  for  J/2  an  hr.; 
drain,  and  press  dry.  Have  ready  1  pt.  mashed  potatoes  that  have 
been  beaten  until  light,  stir  in  the  codfish;  add  the  pepper  and  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  then  fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites.  Put  this 
into  a  baking-dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  golden  brown. — 
Mrs.  H.  W.  Borquette,  2441  S.  Wabasli  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

COD  SOUNDS  AND  TONGUES.— Soak,  scrape  and  boil  as 
many  cod  sounds  as  required.  Drain  and  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  sufficient  w'hite  stock  to  cover  them.  Season  the  sauce 
with  salt,  pepper  and  powdered  mace,  thicken  it  with  a  lump  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour;  just  before  serving,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Serve  with  egg  sauce. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

SPANISH  COD.— Take  1  or  2  slices  of  cod,  tail  end,  remove 
the  skin,  dredge  over  with  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  until  nicely 
browned.  Take  it  out  with  an  egg-slicer,  drain,  and  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  as  much  brown  gravy  as  will  swim  it.  Add  a  little 
salt  and  cayenne,  the  juice  of  J^  of  lemon,  1  lump  of  sugar,  an 
onion  stuck  with  2  cloves  and  a  little  tomato  catsup.  Simmer 
until  the  fish  is  cooked.  Place  it  on  a  hot  dish,  strain  the  gravy, 
thicken  it  with  a  little  hot  ibutter. — ^Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka, 
111. 

A  "CAPE  COD  FOLKS"  TID-BIT.— Soak  2  lbs.  of  cod  over 
night.  In  the  morning  wash  and  scrub  it  with  a  ibrush  to  remove 
lingering  crystals  of  salt,  and  cover  with  hot  water,  in  which  an 
onion  has  been  boiled.  Let  it  stand  in  this  until  the  water  is  cold. 
Take  out  the  fish  and  lay  between  2  towels  until  perfectly  dry, 
broil  on  both  sides,  turning  twice;  lay  it  in  a  hot  dish;  break  to 
pieces  with  a  fork,  and  cover  well  with  hot  drawn  butter,  seasoned 
with  pepper,  lemon  juice,  and  minced  parsley.  Let  it  stand  cov- 
ered for  10  minutes  over  hot  water  before  serving. — Mrs.  B.  Basil, 
2906  Vernon  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BROILED  SOFT-SHELL  CRABS.— Clean  a  number  of  soft- 
shelled  crabs,  dip  them  in  melted  butter  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Put  them  on  a  gridiron  and  broil  until  the  shells  are 
slightly  brown.  When  done,  serve  with  melted  butter.  Garnish 
the  plate  with  lemons,  cut  into  quarters. — ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  231 

HARD-SHELL    CRABS    IN    COQUILLES.— Pick    out    the 

flesh  of  boiled  crabs,  mix  with  Bechamel  sauce,  and  fill  the  empty 
top  shells  with  the  mixture;  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  small 
pieces  of  butter  on  the  top.  Put  to  brown  in  the  oven,  and  serve. 
-—Mrs.  K.  Berry,  3600  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CRAB  CROQUETTES.— Chop  1  pt.  of  fresh  crab  meat  very 
fine,  add  J/2  pt.  of  bread  crumbs,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Roll  1  doz.  fresh  oysters  into  this,  dip  them  in 
light  egg-batter,  and  also  in  the  crumbs  again.  Place  some  fresh 
butter  in  a  very  hot  pan,  and  fry  slowly. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka.  III. 

DEVILED  CRAB.— Pick  the  meat  from  boiled  crabs,  taking 
-care  not  to  break  the  shells.  Flake  the  meat,  and  mix  with  it  a 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste,  mustard, 
if  desired,  and  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Return  to 
the  shells,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bits  of  butter,  and 
bake.— Mrs.  Roy  Berry,  2600  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAMED  CRABS.— Make  a  cream  sauce;  add  the  usual 
seasoning,  and  fold  in  carefully  the  meat  from  1  doz.  crabs.  When 
hot,  serve  in  patty  shells,  bread  boxes,  on  toast,  or  on  bouche 
cases. — Mrs.  Arthur  Blakey,  3217  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

DEVILED  CRAB.— Boil  the  extract  of  meat  and  the  crab, 
season  with  cayenne  pepper,  mustard,  salt,  and  any  sauce  pre- 
ferred. Put  into  a  covered  saucepan,  with  hot  water  sufficient  to 
keep  from  burning;  add  cracker  dust,  moistened  with  a  tablespoon 
of  cream,  together  with  a  quantity  of  butter.  Serve  in  the  black 
shell,  putting  a  sprig  of  parsley  with  each.— <Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

CRAB  FARCIE.— Pick  the  meat  from  the  shells,  and  allow  1 
lb.  of  meat  to  1]^  lbs,  of  crumbs.  Cover  the  crumbs  with  the 
meat,  put  pieces  of  butter  over  the  whole  and  bake. in  the  oven  10 
minutes.  Serve  with  chopped  parsley  and  lemon. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jef- 
fries, Winnetka,  111. 

FRIED  SOFT-SHELL  CRABS.— Roll  the  crabs  in  rolled 
cracker  crumbs  and  dip  in  a  beaten  egg,  then  roll  again  in  the 
crumbs  and  drop  into  the  smoking  fat.    When  done  take  out  with 


232^  FISH 

a  skimmer,  lay  on  brown  paper  to  free  from  grease,  and  serve  hot. 
— Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  III. 

MINCED  CRAB.— Place  1  pt.  of  crab,  1  hard-boiled  egg, 
chopped  very  fine,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  }/2  pt.  of  pure  cream 
in  a  pan,  season,  and  cook  for  8  or  9  minutes.  Thicken  with  a 
cream  sauce;  when  cooked  add  a  glass  of  sherry.  Serve  in  chafing- 
dish. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

POTTED  CRAB.— Pound  the  meat  from  the  shell  and  claws 
of  a  freshly-boiled  crab  in  a  mortar  with  salt,  cayenne  and  pound- 
ed mace.  Press  into  small  jars,  cover  it  with  butter,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  for  5^  an  hr.  When  cold,  pour  freshly  clarified 
butter  over  it.  Set  aside  until  the  butter  becomes  cold. — Mrs.  C. 
J.  Jeffries  Winnetka,  111, 

CRAWFISH. — These  small  fresh  water  lobsters  are  extreme- 
ly delicate.  Pull  off  the  center  fin  in  the  tail;  with  it  will  come  out 
a  small  black  vessel,  which  would  make  the  fish  bitter  if  left  in. 
Wash  them  carefully  and  put  them  to  cook  in  a  very  strong  court- 
bouillon.  Strain  them,  and  serve  arranged  prettily  on  a  platter 
decorated  with  parsley. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Bogen,  2722  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

BROILED  EELS. — Skin  and  clean  a  good-sized  eel;  remove 
the  backbone  and  cut  into  5  or  6  pieces.  Dip  each  piece  into  tgg, 
and  then  in  salted  and  peppered  bread  crumbs.  Put  on  a  greased 
gridiron  with  the  skin  downward,  over  a  clear  fire,  broil,  turning 
over  when  done  on  one  side.  Put  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with 
parsley,  ad  serve  with  tartar  sauce. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

FRICASEED  EELS.— After  skinning,  cleaning  and  cutting  5 
or  6  eels  in  pieces  of  2  inches  in  length,  cover  with  water  and 
boil  until  tender.  Add  a  good-sized  bit  of  butter,  with  a  teaspoon 
of  wheat  flour  or  rolled  cracker  worked  into  it,  and  a  little  scalded, 
and  chopped  parsley;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  wine- 
glass of  vinegar,  if  liked;  let  them  simmer  for  10  minutes,  and 
serve.  hot—Mrs.  Ella  Bosell,  2628  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRIED  EELS. — Clean  and  cut  the  eels  into  pieces  3  inches  in 
length,  cover  them  in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water,  adding  salt. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         233 

pepper,  thyme,  onions,  thin  sliced  carrots,  and  Yz  glass  of  vinegar. 
When  boiling  take  from  the  fire,  and  let  them  become  cool.  Then 
drain  and  dry  them.  Mix  ^^%  and  bread  crumbs,  beating  the  egg 
first,  and  dip  in  each  piece.  Fry  them  brown  in  drippings.  Place 
on  a  dish,  and  serve  w^ith  tartar  sauce. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka.  111. 

STEWED  EELS.— Clean  and  skin  3  lbs.  of  eels,  and  remove 
every  vestige  of  fat  from  the  inside.  Chop  an  onion  fine,  add  4 
tablespoons  of  butter  and  chopped  parsley,  season  to  taste.  Cut 
the  eels  in  pieces  about  2  inches  in  length,  season,  and  lay  in 
saucepan  containing  the  melted  butter.  Strew  the  onion  and  pars- 
ley over  all,  cover  the  saucepan  closely,  and  set  in  a  pot  of  cold 
water.  Bring  gradually  to  a  boil,  then  cook  very  gently  for  1^4 
hrs.,  or  until  tender.  Turn  out  into  a  deep  pan. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kel- 
ley, Winnetka,  111. 

BOILED  FLOUNDERS.— Lay  the  fish  in  a  kettle  with  salt 
and  water  in  the  proportion  of  6  oz.  of  salt  to  each  gallon,  and  a 
little  vinegar.  Let  the  water  boil  a  minute  or  so,  remove  it  to  the 
side  to  simmer  until  done.  The  fish  must  not  boil  fast  or  they 
will  break.  Let  them  simmer  15  minutes. — Mrs.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka, 111.  ^ 

FRIED  FILLETS  OF  FLOUNDERS.— Cut,  trim,  and  pre- 
pare as  for  baking.  When  you  take  them  from  the  ice,  salt  and 
pepper,  skewer,  roll  in  crumbs,  then  in  q.z%,  and  again  in  crumbs. 
Leave  on  ice  forj^  an  hr.  longer,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain,  with- 
draw the  skewers,  and  serve  with  sauce  tartare. — Mrs.  William 
Boss,  169  Locust  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BROILED  FROGS'  LEGS.— Lay  2  doz.  frogs  on  their  backs. 
Cut  from  the  neck  along  the  sides  of  the  belly  and  cut  again  across 
the  middle  of  the  belly.  Take  out  the  entrails  and  cut  away  the 
head,  leaving  only  the  back  and  legs.  Skin  and  chop  off  the  feet, 
then  wash  tlioroughly  and  blanch  in  scalding  salted  water.  Lay 
on  a  dish  and  pour  over  a  little  olive  oil,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Turn  over  several  times  in  this  seasoning  and  broil  for  3  or 
4  minutes  on  one  side,  then  turn.  Broil  together  about  7  minutes, 
and  serve  with  a  maitre  d'  hotel  sauce. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 


234  .        ^  FISH 

FRICASEED  FROGS'  LEGS— Clean  2  doz.  frogs'  legs  and 
put  them  in  a  granite  saucepan  with  a  little  butter.  Place  on  the 
fire  and  and  cook  until  the  butter  begins  to  brown,  pour  over  a 
cup  of  hot  water,  cover  the  pan  and  stew  for  25  minutes.  Skim 
off  most  of  the  butter,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Thicken 
with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  of  cream.  When  it 
boils,  remove  from  the  fire.  Serve  on  hot,  buttered  toast. — Mrs. 
C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRIED  FROGS'  LEGS.— Clean  2  doz.  frogs'  legs  and  dip  them 
singly  in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  plunge  each 
one  into  very  hot  fat,  and  fry  for  5  minutes.  Drain,  garnish  with 
parsley,  and  serve  with  maitre  d'  hotel  sauce,  and  Saratoga  chips. 
— ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

FROGS'  LEGS— STEWED.— Put  2  oz.  of  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
lay  in  the  frogs'  quarters  and  fry  gently.  Add  1  chopped  onion,  1 
oz.  of  butter,  a  small  piece  of  raw  ham,  cut  up  very  small,  J^  a 
green  pepper,  a  sliced  tomato,  a  teaspoon  of  rice,  a  cup  of  hot  water 
and  1  of  cream,  and  boil  until  done.  Take  out  of  the  pan,  strain 
the  gravy,  mix  it  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  beaten  to  a  cream. 
Place  the  frogs'  legs  in  a  proper  dish,  pour  over  the  gravy,  and 
send  to  the  table. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

BAKED  HADDIE.— Place  fish  in  baking-pan.  Surround  with 
cold  water  and  cook  slowly  for  25  minutes  on  the  top  of  the  stove. 
Pour  off  water,  spread  fish  with  butter,  and  bake  in  the  oven  25 
minutes. — Mrs.  Leo  T.  Brodo,  3616  Ellis  Park,  Chicago,  111. 

BROILED  FINNAN  HADDIE.— Soak  in  a  pan  of  water  4 
or  5  hrs.,  then  wipe  dry,  and  broil  over  hot  coals.  Put  on  a  hot 
platter  with  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and  pour  over  54  cup  of  hot, 
sweet  cream,  set  in  the  oven  a  minute  or  two,  and  serve  at  once. — 
Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

CREAMED  FINNAN  HADDIE.— Remove"  the  skin  and 
bones  from  a  small  salted  finnan  haddie,  previously  boiled,  and 
pick  into  flakes  with  a  f^ork.  Place  in  a  saucepan  1  tablespoon 
each  of  butter  and  flour,  add  1^  cups  of  milk,  cook  a  few  moments; 
season  with  pepper;  thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  creamed;  serve 
on  a  hot  platter,  garnished  with  toast. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka, 111.  f 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         235 

BAKED  HADDOCK.— Scale  and  clean  a  3-lb.  fish;  fill  with 
forcemeat  and  sew  up;  sprinkle  with  a  generous  supply  of  salt  and 
bread  crumbs.  Put  over  3  level  tablespoons  of  butter  in  tiny 
pieces  on  the  fish.  Bake  ^  hr.,  basting  frequently. — Mrs.  E.  D. 
Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

HADDOCK  FILLETS.— 2  lbs.  "thick  of  the  fish"  will  make 
4  fillets;  skin  each  piece  with  a  sharp  knife;  trim  into  shape,  and 
leave  in  a  marinade  of  oil  and  vinegar  with  a  tablespoon  of  mixed 
chives,  or  a  tablespoon  oi  onion  juice.  Let  the  fillets  lie  there 
for  an  hr.  Then  drain  well,  roll  in  a  good  batter,  afterward  in  fine 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  boiling  fat.  Drain  upon  hot  tissue 
paper,  and  send  to  table  very  hot.  Serve  tomato  sauce  with  it. — 
Mrs.  L.  A.  Branch,  3607  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  HALIBUT  STEAK.— Wash,  wipe,  and  lay  in  olive 
oil  and  lemon  juice  for  1  hr.  Sprinkle  liberally  with  minced  on- 
ion, parsley  and  lemon  juice,  turning  over  and  over  that  the  steak 
may  be  covered.  Lay  upon  the  grating  of  your  bake-pan.  Make 
a  white  sauce  by  stirring  1  cup  of  hot  milk  into  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  cooked  smooth,  with  1  of  flour.  Season  it  with  salt  and( 
pepper,  and  pour  it  over  the  fish.  Cover  the  surface  with  fine 
bread  crumbs,  moistened  in  melted  butter,  and  bake  until  the  fish 
is  done,  about  12  minutes  to  the  lb. — Mrs.  Clara  Browder,  3849  S. 
State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

DEVILED  HALIBUT  OR  COD.— Pick  cold,  cooked  fish 
into  bits  with  a  silver  fork.  Make  a  forcemeat  of  bread  crumbs, 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  run  through  a  colander  or  vegetable  press,  a 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  1  of  minced  parsley,  a  teaspoon  of 
onion  juice,  paprika,  and  salt.  Mix  with  the  fish,  wet  up  with 
oyster  liquor,  and  fill  scallop  shells  with  the  mixture.  Cover  with 
fine  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt  them,  put  a  dot  of  butter 
on  each  scallop,  and  bake  quickly  to  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  Arthur 
F.  Brown,  2824  Vernon  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRIED  HALIBUT  STEAKS.— Marinade  for  an  hr.:  drain, 
roll  in  slated  flour,  then  in  beaten  egg.  lastly,  in  salted  and  pep- 
pered bread  crumbs.  Leave  on  ice  for  an  hr.,  and  fry  in  clarified 
dripping,  or  on  cottolene  or  fat.— Mrs.  K.  Whitley,  3623  Forest 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


236  FISH 

ESCALLOPED  HALIBUT  OR  SALMON.— Mix  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  %  cup  flour  until  smooth,  stir  in  l4  pt.  scalded 
milk,  add  salt,  pepper  and  1  dessertspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  and 
pour  this  over  the  contents  of  1  can  of  salmon,  broken  into 
small  pieces.  Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top,  and  bake  in 
individual  dishes.  If  halibut  is  used  instead  of  salmon,  lyz  lbs.  is 
sufficient. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

HALIBUT  AND  CHEESE  SCALLOP.— Have  ready  2  cups 
of  cold,  cooked  halibut,  flaked  rather  coarsely  with  a  fork.  Make 
a  good  white  sauce — or  drawn  butter — ^^based  upon  milk  instead  of 
water.  Butter  a  bake-dish  and  fill  it  with  alternate  layers  of  the 
fish,  sauce,  and  grated  cheese,  using  altogether  about  4  tablespoons 
of  cheese,  and  cover  the  top  with  crumbs.  Bake  1/2  an  hr.  in  a 
quick  oven,  and  serve  hot.  Keep  covered,  until  10  minutes  before 
serving,  when  brown. — Mrs.  Chas.  Zugler,  113  E.  36th  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

HALIBUT  TIMBALE.— Cut  1  lb.  of  raw  fish  in  small  pieces, 
pound  it  in  a  mortar  and  strain  through  a  sieve.  Make  a 
paste  of  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  and  l4  of  milk.  Take  off  the  fire, 
add  the  pulped  fish,  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  paprika. 
Beat  in  slowly  the  whipped  whites  of  5  eggs.  Fill  buttered  moulds 
with  the  mixture,  and  set  them  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  oven 
for  20  minutes.  Serve  with  potato  sauce. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

RED  HERRINGS.— Cook  the  fish  by  making  incisions  in  the 
skin  across  the  fish.  If  there  is  any  roe,  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with 
a  little  anchovy  and  spread  it  on  toast.  If  the  herrings  are  very 
dry  soak  them  in  warm  water  an  hr.  before  cooking. — Mrs.  E.  D. 
Kelley,  Winnetka,  111.  ^ 

SCALLOPED  HERRING.— Soak  5  salt  herrings  over  night. 
Divide;  remove  all  skin  and  bones;  cut  into  inch  squares.  Slice 
1  doz.  of  cold  potatoes,  have  a  layer  of  potatoes  and  fish,  adding 
bit  of  butter  and  good  sprinkling  of  pepper  to  each  layer  of  fish, 
end  with  potatoes..  Cover  with  a  sauce  made  of  3  cups  of  milk 
and  3  beaten  eggs.  Lastly,  add  ^2  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs, 
mixed  with  1  teaspoon  drawn  butter.  Bake  about  40  minutes. 
Serve  hot— Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         237 

LOBSTER  A  LA  ATLANTIC  CITY.— Scald  1  qt.  of  milk, 
stir  in  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  add  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  rolled  in  1  of  flour;  cook  3  minutes;  add  1  lob- 
ster. Simmer  S  minutes.  Line  a  tureen  with  6  split  and  buttered 
crackers;  serve  with  sliced  lemon. — ^^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka, 
111. 

LOBSTERS  BROILED  IN  THE  SHELL.— Kill  the  lobster 
by  cutting  the  tail  off  with  one  stroke  of  the  knife,  just  where  it 
joins  the  body:  With  another  clean  cut,  divide  it  lengthwise  into 
two  equal  parts,  shell  and  all.  Take  out  the  coral,  the  one  long 
intestine,  and  the  stomach.  Crack  the  claws  with  a  hammer.  Put 
on  a  buttered  broiler,  split  side  downward,  and  broil  over  a  fierce 
fire.  As  soon  as  the  juice  begins  to  run  freely,  withdraw  long 
enough  to  wash  liberally  with  melted  butter,  and  return  to  the  fire, 
turning  often  to  keep  in  the  juices.  Cook  about  10  minutes  on  the 
split  or  flesh  side,  and  8  minutes  on  the  other.  Have  ready  a 
sauce  made  by  rubbing  2  tablespoons  of  flour  to  a  cream  with 
lemon  juice  and  finely  minced  parsley,  adding  a  little  cayenne,  and 
wash  the  lobster  with  this  while  hissing  hot.  Serve  half  a  lobster 
to  each  guest  with  oyster  forks  for  extracting  the  meat. — ^Mrs.  F. 
M.  Stall,  2317  Indiana  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAMED  LOBSTER.— 2  cups  of  boiled  lobster  meat  cut 
into  dice.  Season  with  paprika,  salt,  and  lemon  juice.  Heat  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  turn  in  the  lobster  dice. 
Toss  until  smoking  hot,  add  J^  a  cup  of  cream,  heated,  with  a  bit 
of  soda,  then  beat  into  it  the  whipped  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Stir  for  1 
minute,  and  dish.  Serve  hot  buttered  crackers  around  it. — Mrs.  D. 
H.  Smedley,  629  Wells  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAMED  LOBSTER  A  LA  NEW  YORK.— Mix  y,  cup  of 

butter,  the  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs  and  a  dash  of  dry  mustard 
to  a  smooth  paste.  Heat  the  chafing-dish  and  add  gradually  1  cup 
of  rich  milk  and  the  beaten  yolk  of  a  raw  tzZy  then  4  tablespoons 
of  cracker  crumbs,  rolled  fine,  and  1  lobster,  picked  into  pieces, 
mixed  with  salt  and  pepper.  Toss  the  mixture  about  with  a  fork 
and  spoon  until  thoroughly  heated.  Serve  on  toast. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries  Winnetka,  111. 

LOBSTER  CROQUETTES.— Mix  with  1  cup  cream  sauce,  2 
cups  of  finely  chopped  lobster,  1  saltspoon  salt,  1  of  mustard,  a 


238  FISH 

trifle  of  cayenne.  Make  into  croquettes,  roll  in  beaten  egg  and 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

LOBSTER  CURRIED.— Heat  a  tablespoon  of  butter  m  a 
frying-pan,  and  cook  in  it  a  tablespoon  of  sliced  onion.  Strain  out 
the  onion,  return  the  'butter  to  the  pan,  and  stir  smooth  with  a 
level  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoon  of  curry  powder.  Add  4 
tablespoons  of  cream,  heated,  with  a  pinch  of  soda;  lastly,  2  cups 
of  Jobster  meat,  cut  into  dice.  Stir  steadily  until  very  hot.  Serve. 
— Mrs.  J.  H.  Salmann,  2638  Cottage  Grove  Ave,,  Chicago,  111. 

LOBSTER  CUTLETS.— 2  cups  of  minced  lobster,  seasoned 
with  a  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  paprika,  and  1  teaspoon  each 
of  lemon  juice  and  minced  parsley.  Moisten  with  1  cup  of  thick 
drawn  butter,  and  the  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg.  When  cool,  shape  into 
cutlets;  egg  and  crumb  them,  let  them  stand  for  1  hr.  on  ice,  then 
fry  in  deep  hot  butter. — Mrs.  Frank  Rogers,  67  E.  36th  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

DEVILED  LOBSTER.— 2  cups  of  lobster  meat,  cut  into  dice. 
Reserve  the  coral,  rubbing  it  to  a  paste  with  butter  and  lemon 
juice.  Heat  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  lobster 
meat,  highly  seasoned  with  paprika,  French  mustard,  10  drops  of 
taibasco,  or  double  the  quantity  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  salt. 
As  soon  as  it  bubbles,  turn  in  the  coral  paste,  and  let  it  just  come 
to  a  boil  before  serving. — 'Mrs.  Victor  Raymond,  63  E.  21st  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

LOBSTER  FARCIE.— Remove  the  lobster  from  the  shell,  and 
cut  the  fish  into  small  pieces.  Stir  in  the  meat  a  thick  cream 
sauce.  Season  with  salt,  red  pepper,  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  a 
small  quantity  of  onion  juice.  Put  into  the  shell  again,  sprinkle 
thickly  with  bread  crumbs,  and  brown  in  the  oven  very  slowly. — 
Mrs.  C.  J.  Jefifries,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRITTER  BATTER  FOR  LOBSTER,  ETC.— Mix  together 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  beaten  with  J^  cup  cold  water,  add  1  cup  flour, 
J^  teaspoon  salt,'J4  teaspoon  of  paprika  pepper,  beat  until  smooth; 
add  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  beat  very  hard,  as  the  success  of 
the  blatter  depends  upon  the  beating;  finally  "fold  in"  the  stiflly 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         239 

beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  set  the  batter  in  a  cold  place  for  2  or 
3  hrs.  before  using. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURG.— Mash  the  yolks  of  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs  with  a  silver  spoon,  add  %  cup  cream.  Put  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  in  the  chafing-dish,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour; 
cook  slowly  for  1  minute,  then  add  J4  cup  cream  and  stir  until 
thick,  add  the  yolks  and  cream  to  this,  add  lobster  broken  into 
small  bits,  and  the  whites  of  eggs,  sliced.  Just  before  serving,  add 
salt,  pepper,  and  2  tablespoons  of  sherry. — Eloise  Jennings,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

LOBSTER,  NEWPORT  STYLE.— Split  2  cooked  lobsters  in 
half,  remove  all  the  meat,  and  divide  the  shells  in  8  parts.  Cut  the 
meat  fine,  crack  the  claws,  pick  out  the  meat.  iMelt  2  tablespoons 
of  butter,  add  1  of  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes;  add  Ij^  cups  of 
milk,  stir  and  cook  to  a  thick,  smooth  sauce;  season  with  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  %  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  yi 
gill  of  cream,  add  them  to  the  sauce,  cook  a  few  minutes,  next  add 
the  lobster  and  1  teaspoon  parsley,  chopped  fine,  stir  2  minutes 
over  the  fire.  Put  the  filling  into  the  lobster  shells,  sprinkle  1 
teaspoon  of  grated  bread  crumbs  and  a  few  drops  of  melted  but- 
ter over  each.  Place  the  shells  in  a  shallow  pan  and  bake  10  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven.  Toast  a  piece  of  oblong  bread,  fasten  to  the 
center  of  an  oblong  dish,  and  cover  with  butter,  mixed  with 
chopped  parsley.  Fasten  the  lobster  claws  with  small  skewers  in 
the  center  on  top  of  the  bread,  dress  the  lobster  around  it,  garnish 
with  small  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  serve. — Mrs,  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

LOBSTER  SAUSAGES.— 'Mince  fine  and  pound  the  flesh  from 
a  freshly-boiled  lobster,  with  2  oz.  of  ibutter,  a  little  salt,  cayenne, 
and  pounded  mace,  and  5^  of  the  coral,  which  has  been  pounded 
separately,  and  pressed  through  a  hair  sieve.  Shape  the  mixture 
into  roll-like  sausages,  sprinkle  the  rest  of  the  coral  over  them 
and  place  in  an  oven  with  a  moderate  fire  until  they  are  quite  hot. 
Serve  on  a  folded  napkin,  and  garnish  with  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs. 
C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

SCALLOPED  LOBSTERS.— Cover  the  bottom  of  a  baking- 
dish  with  fine  bread  crumbs.     On  this  put  a  layer  of  lobster,  and 


240  FISH 

season  with  pepper  and  salt;  add  another  layer  of  crumbs,  another 
of  lobster,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Moisten  with  milk, 
and  strew  with  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  about  20  minutes. — Mrs.  L, 
N.  Powell,  3513  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

LOBSTER  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE.— 1  medium-sized  lob- 
ster, 1  slice  of  onion,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
5^  pt.  of  strained  tomato,  1  bay  leaf,  1  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  1 
saltspoon  of  pepper.  Put  the  bay  leaf,  onion,  salt  and  pepper  into 
the  tomato;  cook  slowly  for  5  minutes.  Rub  together  the  butter 
and  flour;  add  gradually  the  tomato;  bring  to  a  boiling  point,  and 
stand  over  hot  water.  Open  the  lobster,  and  cut  into  inch  squares. 
Strain  the  tomato  sauce;  add  to  it  the  lobster;  cover,  and  place 
over  hot  water  for  15  minutes,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  Garnish 
the  dish  with  triangular  pieces  of  toasted  bread. — Mrs.  Thomas 
Perkins,  3747  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

COLD  LOBSTER.— Take  off  the  large  claws  and  crack  the 
shell  lightly  without  disfiguring  the  fish.  Split  open  the  tail  with 
a  sharp  knife,  and  dish  the  fish  on  a  folded  napkin,  with  the  head 
in  an  upright  position  in  the  center,  and  the  tail  and  claws  ar- 
ranged around  it.  Garnish  with  parsley.  Use  salt,  cayenne,  mus- 
tard, salad-oil  with  it. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

BAKED  FRESH  MACKEREL,— Lay  for  ^  an  hr.  in  olive 
oil  and  lemon  juice.  Lay  thin  slices  of  pork  upon  the  grating  of 
a  baking-pan,  put  the  mackerel  on  the  pork,  sprinkle  lightly  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  25  minutes.  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  Jas.  Moore,  4412  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  SALT  MACKEREL.— Soak  the  mackerel  over 
night.  Boil  in  a  napkin  in  clear  water,  drain,  and  lay  it  on  a  dish 
with  a  garnish  of  parsley.  Make  a  sauce  of  melted  butter,  and  serve 
with  boiled  potatoes. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

BROILED  FRESH  MACKEREL.— Draw  wash  and  cut  off 
the  head  of  a  mackerel.  Rub  over  with  salt,  and  let  stand  for  1  hr. 
Rub  a  gridiron  with  ko-nut  or  olive  oil,  lay  on  the  mackerel  and 
broil  over  a  clear  fire.  Garnish  dish  with  parsley,  and  serve  very 
hot.— Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         241 

SPICED  MACKEREL  OR  TROUT.— Take  %  teaspoon  of 
allspice,  salt,  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  pepper,  and  enough  vinegar  to 
cover  the  fish.  Cook  until  vinegar  is  all  absorbed,  in  a  moderate 
oven;  about  2  hrs. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

BOILED  MUSSELS.— Brush  the  shells  and  wash  the  mus- 
sels in  several  waters.  Put  them  into  a  deep  saucepan  (without 
water),  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them.  Spread  a  napkin  over 
them  in  the  saucepan,  put  on  the  lid  and  scald  them  over  a  sharp 
knife.  Shake  frequently  to  keep  them  from  burning.  When  the 
shells  open,  take  the  saucepan  off  the  fire,  drain  the  liquor  into  a 
bowl,  and  take  out  the  fish.  Very  carefully  remove  the  little  weed 
which  is  found  under  the  black  tongue  and  throw  it  away.  Do 
not  let  the  mussels  stay  too  long  on  the  fire,  as  they  become 
leathery. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

OYSTERS 

ANGELS  ON  HORSEBACK.— Roll  up  a  slice  of  bacon;  take 
an  oyster  and  skewer  it  on  the  roll  of  bacon;  repeat  until  the  pan 
is  full;  bake  in  the  oven. — ^Mrs.  Emma  Minter,  3334  S.  State  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  OYSTERS.— Select  nice  large  oysters  in  the  shell; 
wash,  scrub,  and  rinse  until  the  shells  are  free  from  sand.  Place 
in  a  baking-pan,  and  then  in  a  quick  oven;  bake  for  10  or  15  min- 
utes, until  the  shells  open.  Take  from  the  oven,  and  quickly  re- 
move the  upper  shell.  Arrange  6  on  a  dinner  plate  with  a  little 
cup  of  melted  butter,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  placed  in  the 
center,  and  send  at  once  to  the  ta'ble.  To  eat  these,  remove  the 
oysters  from  the  shell  with  an  oyster  fork,  and  dip  them  into 
melted  butter. — Mrs.  Cecelia  Miller,  611  Dearborn  Ave.,  Chicago, 
111. 

BROILED  OYSTERS.— Free  from  the  shells,  pour  water  over 
the  oysters  and  drain.  Dip  in  melted  butter,  then  in  highly-sea- 
soned cracker  dust;  let  stand  until  a  crust  is  formed,  as  they  will 
then  retain  their  juices.  Lay  on  a  fine,  well-buttered  wire  grid- 
iron, till  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  at  once,  gar- 
nished with  thin  slices  of  lemon,  and  dividing  these  slices  into  4 
or  6  pieces. — ^Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 


242  FISH 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL.— Mix  together  2  tablespoons  catsup, 
2  drops  tabasco  sauce,  Yi  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  Ij^  tea- 
spoons lemon  juice,  1  teaspoon  horseradish.  Add  to  oysters  in  the 
proportion  desired. — Mrs.  Richard  M.  Johnson,  608  E.  43rd  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

VIRGINIA  CREAMED  OYSTERS.— Lay  3  or  4  oysters  on 
a  nappy  or  clam  shell.  Have  ready  a  sauce  made  by  cooking  to- 
gether 2  tablespoons  each  of  butter  and  flour,  until  they  bubble, 
and  pouring  on  them,  then  a  cup  of  oyster  liquor,  and  1  of  cream; 
add  a  tiny  pinch  of  baking  soda  to  the  cream,  and  stir  over  the  iire 
in.  a  double  boiler  until  you  have  a  thick,  smooth  sauce.  Season 
to  taste  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  beat  up  hard  once,  and  pour 
over  the  oysters  in  the  shells  or  the  nappies.  Set  in  the  oven, 
and  after  the  shells  or  dishes  are  hoc,  bake  for  about  5  minutes.-  — 
Mrs.  Marie  Humphrey,  3446  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

OYSTER  CROQUETTES.— Chop  ^  pt.  raw  oysters  and  ^  pt. 
of  cooked  veal  very  fine.  Soak  3  tablespoons  of  cracker  crumbs  in 
oyster  liquor,  and  then  mix  all  the  ingredients,  adding  1  tablespoon 
of  onion  juice,  1  tablespoon  butler,  melted,  and  shape.  Dip  in 
yolks  of  2  eggs  and  roll  in  bread  crnmbs,  and  fry  as  usual. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CURRIED  OYSTERS.— Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  1 
tablespoon  of  flour,  1  scant  teaspoon  of  curry  powder,  ^  cup  each 
of  oyster  liquor  and  thin  cream.  When  thick  add  1  tablespo^)n  of 
grated  apple,  1  cup  of  oysters,  10  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  Yz  tea- 
spoon of  salt;  serve  on  toast. — Eloise  Jersning.^,  Winnetka,  111. 

OYSTER  CUTLETS.— Soak  2  tablespoons  of  fine  cracker 
crumbs  in  the  oyster  liquor,  chop  ^  pt.  of  oysters,  and  add  them 
to  the  soaked  crumbs;  add  1  cup  fine,  chopped,  cooked  chicken,  1 
teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper.  Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter 
in  a  fryin-pan,  when  melted  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir  until 
smooth,  add  the;  oyster  mixture,  and  stir  3  or  4  minutes.  Put  in  2 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  stir  a  minute  longer.  Spread  upon  a  well- 
buttered  platter,  and  when  cold  shape  into  cutlets.  Dip  the  cutlet 
into  1  beaten  ^^^y  and  then  into  bread  crum'bs,  and  fry  until  brown. 
Serve  quickly. — ^Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         243 

DEVILED  OYSTERS.— 25  oysters,  ^  pt.  of  milk,  J^  a  salt- 
spoon  paprika,  J^  a  saltspoon  of  white  pepper,  J/^  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  tablespootis  of  flour,  yolks  of  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley.  Drain,  and  wash 
the  oysters;  throw  them  into  a  hot  kettle;  stir  until  the  gills  have 
curled;  drain,  saving  the  liquor.  Chop  the  oysters,  drain  again, 
adding  this  to  the  other  liquor.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together, 
add  the  oyster  liquor  and  cold  milk;  stir  over  the  fire  until  they 
reach  the  boiling  point;  add  all  the  seasoning  and  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  slightly  beaten;  cook  just  a  moment  longer;  add  the  oysters, 
and  stand  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  fill  the  mixture  into  the  deep 
oyster  or  clam  shells,  or  in  any  individual  shells  that  you  may 
have  in  the  house.  Beat  an  egg  until  the  white  and  yolk  are  thor- 
oughly mixed;  add  a  tablespoon  of  warm  water,  and  beat  again. 
Take  the  shell  in  your  hand,  and  baste  it  all  over  with  this  beaten 
tgg;  then  dust  thickly  with  bread  crumbs,  cementing  well  where 
the  mixture  and  shell  come  together.  When  ready  to  serve,  put  a 
few  at  a  time  in  a  frying  basket,  and  plunge  them  into  hot  fat. 

Caution. — An  abundance  of  egg  and  bread  must  be  put  around 
the  edge  of  the  shell,  so  that  it  will  quickly  harden  when  plunged 
into  the  hot  fat,  otherwise  the  fat  will  penetrate,  and  spoil  the 
flavor  of  the  mixture.  This  same  mixture  may  be  put  into  indi- 
vidual or  ramekin  dishes,  covered  with  browned  bread  crumbs,  and 
put  into  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  heat. — Mrs.  E.  P.  Hubbard,  3257 
South  Park  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRICASEED  OYSTERS.— Parboil  50  of  the  freshest  of  oys- 
ters in  their  own  liquor.  One  good  scald  is  sufficient.  Skim 
and  strain  off  the  liquor.  Rub  together  6  oz.  of  butter,  3 
tablespoons  of  scalding  hot  cream  into  a  smooth  paste.  Place  this 
in  1  qt.  of  hot  cream  in  a  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  stir  constantly. 
Add  3  saltspoons  of  salt,  2  each  of  ground  white  pepper,  allspice, 
and  mace.  Stir  until  it  is  thick.  Add  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  2 
eggs,  strained  through  a  fine  sieve.  Pour  the  same  over  the  oys- 
ters, cover  thickly  with  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until 
the  top  is  dark  brown.     Serve  hot. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRIED  OYSTERS.— Select ,  the  largest  oysters  for  frying. 
Take  them  carefully  from  the  liquor,  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to  drain; 
roll  in  cracker  crumbs  or  cornmeal,  and  fry  quickly  in  hot  butter 


244  FISH  ^  ' 

to  a  light  brown.    Serve  at  once. — ^Mrs.  Chas.  Horn,  1024  I^a  Salle 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS.— Drain  them  thoroughly,  chop  fine, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  batter  of  eggs,  milk  and  flour; 
stir  the  chopped  oysters  in  this  and  fry  in  hot  butter;  or  fry  them 
whole,  enveloped  in  batter,  one  in  each  fritter.  In  this  case  the 
batter  should  be  thicker  than  if  they  were  chopped. — Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

OYSTERS  (Italian  Style).— Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters, 
spread  a  dish  with  butter,  lay  the  oysters  upon  it,  strew  finely- 
minced  parsley  over,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  sprinkle  with 
grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Put  the  dish  into  the  oven;  when  brown, 
serve  with  hot  w^afers. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

OYSTERS  IN  JACKETS.— 1  pt.  large  oysters,  and  bacon  cut 
in  very  thin  slices.  Take  1  slice  and  place  an  oyster  on  half  the 
slice,  fold  the  other  half  over  and  pin  the  oyster  in  by  running  a 
wooden  toothpick  through.  Put  into  a  spider,  and  fry  without 
seasoning.  When  done,  send  to  the  table  hot.  Do  not  remove  the 
picks.  This  is  delicious  with  buckwheat  cakes  for  breakfast. — Mrs. 
W.  J.  Henderson,  2815  Calumet  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

OYSTERS,  MUSHROOMS  AND  SWEETBREADS  (Filling 
for  Patties). — Parboil  Y^  pt.  of  oysters,  strain,  and  save  the  liquor, 
cut  the  oysters  and  the  mushrooms  into  about  4  pieces  each.  Cook, 
salt  a  little,  and  chop  the  sweetbreads.  Mix  the  liquor  of  the  oys- 
ters and  mushroom  juice  with  enough  sweet  cream  to  make  1  pt. 
in  all.  Heat  the  liquor  and  pour  slowly  on  1  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  3  of  flour,  which  has  been  melted  and  partially  cooked  together. 
Season  highly  with  salt,  red  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  curry  powder. 
Mix  well  together,  and  pour  into  patty  shells.  Serve  at  once. — 
Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

OYSTER  OMELETTE.— Make  a  plain  omelette  and  just  be- 
fore folding  over,  spread  on  ^4  of  the  oysters  that  have  been  par- 
boiled and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Fold  the  other  half  over  this,  and 
serve  hot. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

OYSTER  PAN  ROAST.— Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  the 
chafing-dish;  as  it  creams  add  1  doz  large  oysters,  }4  pt.  of  oyster 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  245 

juice,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and  cook  2  minutes. 
Serve  on  hot  toast,  moistened  with  the  juice. — ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

PANNED  OYSTERS.— Clean,  place  on  small  pieces  of  toast 
in  baking-pan,  season,  bake  until  plump.  Serve  with  lemon  butter, 
made  with  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  creamed,  and  ^  a  teaspoon  salt, 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  cayenne. — Mrs.  L.  C.  Hazlett,  111  E.  Ohio 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS.-^Cook  1  qt.  of  large  oysters  in  their 
liquor  until  plump.  Skim  out  and  plunge  into  cold  water,  then 
skim,  drain,  and  put  in  earthen  dish  or  glass.  Boil  1  cup  of  good 
cider  vinegar,  a  blade  of  mace,  6  whole  cloves,  8  or  10  peppercorns, 
the  same  of  whole  allspice,  1  tablespoon  of  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  pinch  of  cayenne,  or  2  teaspoons  of  pepper-sauce,  for 
5  minutes,  and  pour  over  the  oysters. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka, 
111. 

BOSTON  OYSTER  PIE.— Pick  off  the  shells  of  3  pts.  of  oys. 
ters;  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  barely  enough  liquor  to  keep 
from  burning;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  add  a  little 
cream  dr  milk,  and  1  or  2  crackers,  rolled  fine.  Let  simmer.  Have 
ready  a  baked  upper  and  lower  crust.  Pour  in  the  filling,  place  on 
the  upper  crust,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

PIGS  IN  A  BLANKET — Bake  1  pt.  oysters,  larger  ones  for 
frying.  Slice  as  thin  as  possible  some  breakfast  bacon.  Dip  each 
oyster  into  tgg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  wrap  each  oyster  in  a  slice 
of  the  bacon,  confined  with  a  toothpick.  Then  drop  in  boiling  lard. 
Serve  hot,  with  toothpick  removed. — Mrs.  David  Harvey,  1449,  S. 
State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

POULETTE  OYSTERS.— Pick  over  1  pt.  of  oysters,  heat  in 
their  own  liquor,  skim,  drain,  and  keep  warm.  Put  ^  cup  of  liquor 
into  saucepan,  melt  1  ta'blespoon  of  butter,  add  1  tablespoon  of 
flour,  then  ^  cup  of  hot  cream;  beat  2  eggs,  add  ^4  cup  of  cream, 
then  the  hot  liquor,  and  the  oysters.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Ser^'-e  garnished  with  toast-points  or  puflF  paste. — Eloise  Jennings, 
Winnetka,  111. 

OYSTER  RAREBIT.— Clean  and  remove  tlie  hard  muscle 
from  J4  or  a  pt.  of  oysters,  parboil  them  in  their  own  liquor  until 


246  FISH 

their  edges  curl;  remove  to  a  hot  bowl.  Put  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter and  Yi  lb.  of  grated  cheese,  1  saltspoon  of  salt  and  a  fe^v  grains 
of  cayenne  into  a  dish.  While  the  butter  is  melting,  beat  2  eggs, 
slowly,  and  add  the  oyster  liquor;  mix  this  gradually  to  the  melted 
cheese,  add  the-  oysters  and  turn  at  once  over  hot  toast. — Mrs.  C  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

ROAST  OYSTERS  IN  THE  SHELL.— Prepare  the  oysters 
as  for  steaming,  then  roast  them  over  a  clear  fire  with  the  large 
shell  down.  Two  minutes  after  the  shells  are  open  the  oysters 
are  done.  Take  up  quickly,  and  serve  in  the  shells  on  a  hot  platter, 
with  salt,  pep|)er,  and  butter  to  taste. — Mrs,  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka, 
111. 

OYSTER  ROLLS.— Pour  2  drops  of  essence  of  anchovy  on 
each  oyster,  4  drops  of  lemon,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  and  roll  each 
oyster  in  a  slice  of  thin  bacon.  When  rolled  enough,  skewer,  and 
frj'  them.  When  done,  take  each  roll  and  place  it  on  a  fried  crou- 
ton.    Serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

ST.  BERNARD   OYSTERS.— Fry  oysters  in   the  usual  way 
and  pour  over  them  the  following:     Brown-sauce;  brown  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  brown  again,  add  gradu-- 
ally  1  cup  of  stock,  a  little  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  minced  fine,  and  a 
few  drops  of  onion  juice. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  III, 

OYSTER  SAUTES.— Drain  the  liquor  from  1  doz.  large  oys- 
ters, butter  the  chafing-dish,  and  when  very  hot  place  the  oysters 
in  single  layers.  When  brown  on  one  side  turn  and  brown  the 
other  side;  while  cooking  keep  adding  a  little  butter.  This,  with 
the  Juice  of  the  oysters,  forms  a  skin.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
and  w^hen  browned,  serve  oysters  and  the  browned  skin  very  hot. — 
Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS.— Take  equal  quantities  of  oysters 
and  cracker  crumbs.  Season  the  cracker  crumbs  well  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Have  oysters  all  cleaned  and  picked  free  from  shell,  and 
dip  Tnto  the  crumbs.  To  1  qt.  each  of  crumbs  and  oysters,  add  1^^ 
pts.  of  milk,  stirring  whole,  together  with  J^  cup  of  melted  butter 
(less  will  do);  stir  thoroughly  together,  and  spread  a  few  pow- 
dered crumbs. — Mrs.  A.  E.  ^^ouland,  1506  S.  4th  Ave..  Ma>-^vood.  111. 

OYSTERS  IN  THE  SHELL.— Wash  the  shell,  and  put  them 
on  hot  coals,  or  upon  the  top  of  a  hot  stove,  or  bake  them  in  a  hot 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  247 

oven;  open  shells  with  an  oyster  knife,  taking  care  to  loose  none 
of  the  liquor,  and  serve  quickly  on  hot  plates  with  toast;  oysters 
may  be  steamed  in  the  shells,  and  are  excellent  eaten  in  the  same 
manner. — Mrs.  E.  P.  Hamilton,  3415  Vernon  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SHREDDED  WHEAT  OYSTER,  MEAT  OR  VEGETABLE 
PATTIES. — Cut  oblong  cavity  in  top  of  biscuit,  remove  top  care- 
fully and  all  inside  shreds,  forming  a  shell.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  put  small  pieces  of  butter  in  bottom,  and  fill  the  shell  with 
drained,  picked  and  washed  oysters.  Season  with  additional  salt 
and  pepper.  Replace  top  of  biscuit  over  oysters,  then  bits  of  but- 
ter on  top.  Place  in  a  covered  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Pour  oyster  liquor  or  cream  sauce  over  it.  Shell  fish,  vegetables 
or  meats  may  also  be  used. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N,  5th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

STEAMED  OYSTERS.— Wash  and  drain  a  pt.  of  oysters, 
place  in  a  basin,  then  in  a  steamer,  and  steam  until  they  begin  to 
curl.  In  a  tureen  put  J4  cup  of  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  add 
the  oysters  and  the  liquor  made  by  steaming. — Eloise  Jennings, 
Winnetka,  111. 

OYSTERS  AND  TRIPE.— 25  fat  oysters,  1  small  onion,  H  Pt. 
of  milk,  Yi  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  lb.  of  honeycomb  tripe,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  saltspoon  of  white  pepper. 
The  tripe  must  be  boiled  until  perfectly  tender,  and  cut  into  nar- 
row strips  or  dice.  Put  the  butter  into  a  saucepan;  add  the  onion, 
chopped;  cover  the  saucepan,  and  cook  until  the  onion  is  soft,  not 
brown;  add  the  flour,  mix,  add  the  milk,  stir  until  boiling,  and  add 
the  tripe  and  oysters.  When  the  oysters  are  thoroughly  cooked, 
so  that  the  gills  are  curled,  add  the  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  at 
once. — Mrs.  Geo.  T.  Brodo,  3616  Ellis  Park,  Chicago,  111. 

NEW  WAY  OF  PREPARING  OYSTERS.— Put  2  doz.  oys- 
ters in  a  large  dish,  take  a  small  ibunch  of  parsley,  chopped  fine,  a 
little  lemon  rind,  grated,  ^  a  nutmeg,  grated,  and  the  crumbs  of  a 
stale  French  roll,  also  grated;  have  these  all  well  incorporated,  add- 
ing a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Have  ready  the  yolks  of  3  fresh  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  foam;  dip  each  oyster  separately  into  the  eggs,  and  roll 
them  in  the  bread  crumbs,  until  they  are  well  covered;  melt  J4  lb. 
of  butter  in  a  pan,  and  put  them  in,  and  turn  constantly,  until  they 


248  FISH 

have  a  thrown,  crusty  appearance.     Serve  with  celery  salt,  and  thin  • 
slices  of  graham  bread. — Mrs.  Clara  Browder,  3849  S.  State  St.,  Chi- 
cgo,  111. 

BAKED  PICKEREL,  WITH  SOUR  CREAM.— Cut  the  fish 
in  suitable  pieces,  put  into  frying-pan.  Put  over  it  2  bay  leaves,  1 
onion,  cut  fine,  salt,  2  oz.  of  butter,  1  cup  sour  cream,  and  let  bake 
20  minutes  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Frank  Brown,  615  W.  47th  Place, 
Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  PIKE — Wash,  scale,  clean  and  dry  the  fish.  Fill  it 
with  forcemeat,  and  skewer  it  with  its  tail  in  its  mouth.  If  the 
fish  is  not  stuffed,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  and  1  oz.  of 
butter  inside.  Egg  and  bread  crumb  it  twice.  Season  the  bread 
crumbs  with  salt  and  cayenne,  and  mix  with  them  J^  their  quantity 
in  shredded  parsley.  Pour  clarified  butter  over  the  fish  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Lay  a  buttered  paper  over  the  dish. — Mrs.  E. 
D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRIED  PERCH.— Wash,  scale  and  wipe  them  dry,  flour  light- 
ly all  over;  rub  off  the  flour,  dip  them  into  finely  grated  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  boiling  fat,  until  they  are  nicely 
browned.  Drain  on  an  inverted  sieve,  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
garnish  with  parsley.  Serve  with  shrimp  or  anchovy  sauce  or 
plain  melted  butter. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

BAKED  SALMON.— Stir  1  tablespoon  of  flour  with  milk,  and 
thicken  with  this  1  qt.  of  hot  milk,  as  for  gravy.  Add  to  this,  while 
hot,  Yz  cup  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  chopped  onion,  and  a  pinch  of  red 
pepper,  J/^  a  teaspoon  of  sage.  Drain  all  the  oil  from  a  can  of 
salmon,  and  remove  bones.  Then  put  in  a  dish  alternate  layers 
rolled  crackers,  salmon,  and  dressing.  Put  butter  on  top,  and  bake 
40  minutes. — ^^Mrs.  Sadie  Bryant,  3120  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  SALMON  TROUT.— Dress  fish,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  cut  gashes  in  back  about  2  inches  apart;  lay  in  slices  of  salt 
pork;  bake,  basting  frequently.  Thicken  liquor  for  dressing. — 
Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glcncoe,  111. 

SALMON  BALLS.— Have  ready  potatoes,  boiled  tender  well 
mashed,  and  seasoned  with  butter.  Take  half  as  much  salmon  as 
poitatoes,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  make  into  balls  or  flat 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         249 

cakes,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  A  well-beaten  egg  added  makes  them 
much  lighter,  but  it  is  not  necessary. — ^Mrs.  Mittie  Buford,  3251  S. 
State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  SALMON. — Sew  as  many  lbs.  as  desired  up  in  a 
cheese-cloth  bag,  and  boil  in  sligbtly  salted  water  a  ^  hr.  for  every 
lb.  When  done  take  out  and  lay  upon  the  platter.  Stir  a  spoonful 
of  minced  parsley  and  the  juice  of  ^  lemon  in  a  cup  of  drawn  but- 
ter. Pour  over  the  salmon  and  serve.  Garnish  with  parsley. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

BROILED  SALT  SALMON.— Soak  in  tepid  water  24  hrs., 
changing  the  water  several  times.  If  in  a  hurry,  or  desiring  a  very 
salt  relish,  it  may  do  to  soak  a  shorter  time,  having  water  warm, 
and  changing  and  parboiling  slightly.  Broil  sharply;  seasoning  to 
suit  taste,  covering  with  butter.  This  recipe  will  answer  for  all 
kinds  of  salt  fish. — Mrs.  Ida  Butler,  907  N.  Franklin  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 

SALMON  CHEESE. — 1  can  good  salmon,  4  eggs,  1  cup  cream, 
6  soda  biscuits,  rolled  fine,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  vinegar,  to 
taste.  Mix  all  together,  and  steam  2  hrs.  When  cold,  slice  down, 
and  serve. — ^Mrs.  L.  Caldwell,  3660  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SALMON  CREAM.— Remove  the  skin,  bone  ^nd  fluid  of  1  can 
salmon.  Mince  fine.  For  sauce,  take  a  little  more  than  }4  pt.  of 
milk,  thickened  with  corn  starch,  add  salt  and  pepper.  Put  bread 
crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  add  fish  and  sauce,  put  bread 
crumbs  on  top.     Bake. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CREAMED  SALMON.— Pick  1  can  of  salmon  to  pieces.  Put 
}4  a  cup  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  add  pinch  of  salt,  2  tea- 
spoons corn  starch,  creamed  with  1  tablespoon  butter.  Add  salmon, 
stir  lightly  with  fork  till  heated  through.  Put  on  dish  sprinkled 
with  bread  crumbs  and  butter.  Brown  in  oven  10  minutes. — Mrs. 
Geo.  Carey,  235  E.  35th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES.— Remove  bones  and  skin  of  1  can 
salmon.  Mince  with  fork,  add  juice  of  1  lemon,  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper,  salt  to  taste,  yolk  of  1  egg.  Cook  1  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  1  of  flour  until  smooth;  then  add  1  cup  of  milk,  cook  until  it 
thickens,  add  this  to  salmon,  and  thicken  with  bread  crumbs  till 


250  FISH 

you  can  mould  into  croquettes.  Moisten  with  white  of  an  egg  or 
milk,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914 
N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SALMON  CUSTARD.— Mix  together  1  can  salmon,  2  eggs,  1 
cup  milk,  small  lump  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Bake  for 
20  minutes  or  ^  an  hr.,  till  brown.— Mrs.  J.  E.  Catlin,  2717  S.  Wa- 
bash Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

DEVILED  SALMON.— This  dish  may  be  prepared  from 
either  canned  or  cold  boiled  salmon.  Arrange  fish  in  neat  flakes, 
and  pour  over  it  the  following  dressing:  Yolks  of  3  eggs,  boiled 
hard,  1  \h.  salad  oil  or  melted  butter,  rub  with  eggs  to  a  smooth 
paste,  add  2  teaspoons  each  of  sugar  and  mustard,  salt  and  cayenne 
to  taste,  add  a  little  vinegar;  arrange  lettuce  leaves  around  the 
plate,  pour  the  dressing  over  the  fish,  and  garnish  with  the  whites 
of  eggs,  cut  in  rings.  This  is  nice  prepared  with  shredded  cab- 
bage.—Mrs.  A.  C.  Christian,  21  W.  37th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SALMON  FLUFF. — Mix  together  1  can  salmon,  6  soda  bis- 
cuits, 2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  roll  biscuits, 
beat  eggs,  and  work  all  together;  form  into  pats,  and  fry  a  few 
minutes. — Mrs.  H.  Dukes,  3618  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRIED  SALMON.— Take  1  can  salmon,  soak  Yz  the  quantity 
of  bread  in  cold  water  until  nice  and  soft,  squeeze  out  the  water, 
put  a  good  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  place  it  on  a  good 
hot  fire,  put  in  salmon  and  bread,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and 
fry  like  potatoes. — ^Mrs.  Mary  R.  Clark,  2520  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

SALMON  FRITTERS.— Mix  together  ^  can  salmon,  1  cup 
mashed  potatoes,  1  slice  of  bread,  squeezed  out  of  cold  water,  1  egg, 
sialt  and  pepper  to  taste;  mould  into  round,  flat  balls,  roll  in  flour, 
and  fry  until  brown. — Mrs.  Chas.  C.  Clemens,  316  W.  Chicago  Ave., 
Chicago,  111. 

A  NICE  DISH  OF  SALMON.— 2  cans  of  red  salmon;  drop 
them  unopened  in  boiling  water,  and  boil  20  minutes;  meanwhile 
put  a  pt.  of  sweet  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  mix  a  large  spoonful  of 
flour  in  a  little  cold  milk,  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  when  the 
milk  boils,  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  ':hen  the  flour,  cook  until 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  251 

thick  and  smooth;  cut  3  or  4  cold  boiled  eggs  in  thin  slices;  turn 
out  the  fish  on  a  large  dish,  spread  out,  lay  the  sliced  eggs  on  the 
fish,  and  put  the  sauce  over  all. — Mrs.  James  Cline,  1126  N.  Clark 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SALMON  LOAF.— Roll  10  soda  biscuits  fine.  Pick  over  and 
mince  J^  can  of  salmon.  Put  half  the  salmon  in  the  dish,  and  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Then  spread  on  a  layer  of  bis- 
cuit crumbs,  add  the  rest  of  the  salmon,  and  then  another  layer  of 
biscuit  on  top.  Put  little  bits  of  butter  over  this,  and  milk  enough 
to  steam  nicely.  Bake  ^  an  hr. — Mrs.  A.  Cohen,  454  E.  58th  Place, 
Chicago,  111. 

SALMON  PUFFS. — 1  can  salmon  beaten  lightly,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  celery  salt,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  3  eggs,  beaten  lightly;  put  in  a  buttered  mould  and 
cook  over  boiling  water  until  done,  when  it  will  turn  out.  Serve 
with  cream  sauce. — Mrs.  J.  Cunningham,  3735  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

SCALLOPED  SALMON.— In  a  baking-dish  place  a  layer  of 
rolled  cracker  crumbs,  then  1  of  shredded  salmon,  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper;  repeat  until  dish  is  nearly  filled.  Take  a  tablespoon  each 
of  butter  and  flour,  beaten  well  together,,  and  stir  in  it  a  cup  of 
boiling  milk;  when  thoroughly  cooked,  stir  in  a  beaten  egg;  pour 
this  over  dish,  and  bake. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

SALMON  SOUFFLE.— Make  a  white  sauce  of  1  pt.  of  milk,  2 
tablespoons  each  of  flour  and  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper, 
and  a  few  drops  onion  juice,  cook,  then  add  1  cup  stale  bread 
crumbs,  1  can  salmon,  picked  free  from  bones,  and  rubbed  smooth 
with  a  silver  fork,  and  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs;  beat  all,  then  fold  in 
whites,  beaten  very  stiflF;  turn  into  "buttered  dish,  and  bake  in  pan 
over  water  in  oven  for  25  minutes. — ^Mrs.  E.  Dittrich,  701  Wells'  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

STEAMED  SALMON.— 1  can  salmon,  chopped,  1  cup  fine 
bread  crumbs,  4  eggs,  beaten  in,  1  tabl^espoon  chopped  parsley,  1 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  salt,  pepper,  a  touch  of  mace.  Pour  into 
buttered  mould  and  steam  1  hr. — Mrs.  E.  Freeman,  3304  S.  State 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 


252  FISH 

SALMON  TIMBOLE.— Mix  together  2  eggs,  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  1  can  salmon,  salt,  pepper  and  butter 
to  suit  the  taste.     Put  into  8  or  10  cups,  and  steam  for  half  an  hr. 

Dressing. — 154  cups  milk,  when  hot  thicken  with  flour,  and  add 
butter,  salt,  and  1  tgg,  or  the  yolks  of  2,  well  beaten. — Mrs.  Ella 
BosweU,  2628  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SALMON  TURBOT.— Heat  1  pt.  of  milk  and  %  cup  of  butter, 
stir  in  1  cup  of  flour  which  has  been  mixed  smooth  in  a  little  water. 
Salt  and  let  cook  until  stiff,  stirring  to  prevent  burning.  When 
cold,  stir  in  2  well-beaten  eggs.  Fill  a  baking-dish  with  a  layer  of 
the  same,  and  salmon,  alternately.  Sprinkle  a  layer  of  rolled  crack- 
ers on  top,  moisten  with  milk  and  put  }i  cup  of  butter  in  bits  over 
all.  Bake  20  minutes,  and  serve  hot. — ^Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

SARDINES 

BAKED  SARDINES.— Toast  crustless  slices  of  graham  bread, 
and  butter  them.  Put  the  drained  sardines  on  a  tin  plate,  squeeze 
over  them  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  and  sprinkle  with  fine  crack- 
er crumbs.  Set  the  plate  in  the  oven,  and  bake  the  fish  for  10  min- 
utes. Transfer  the  sardines  to  the  toast,  and  keep  hot  while  you 
make  the  following  sauce:  Strain  J^  pt.  of  liquor  from  a  can  of 
tomatoes,  and  put  into  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan  to  heat.  Rub 
together  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  1  of  flour,  stir  these  into  the 
tomato  liquor,  and,  as  the  sauce  thickens,  add  a  J^  teaspoon  of 
onion  juice,  and  a  teaspoon  of  granulated  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the  sardines  and  toast.  You 
may  substitute  white  bread  for  brown,  and  omit  the  tomato  sauce 
entirely. — Mrs.  E.  Freeman,  3304  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BROILED  SARDINES.— Broil  over  hot  coals  for  a  minute  or 
so,' turning  them  once.  Put  2  fish  on  large  slices  of  toast.  Pour 
over  a  little  hot  oil  which  is  left  in  the  can. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

SARDINES  IN  CUPS.— Cut  rounds  of  stale  bread  more  than 
54  an  inch  thick.  Press  a  small  cutter  inside  of  the  larger  round, 
half  way  through  the  bread.  Scrape  out  the  crumbs  from  the  inner 
round,  leaving  sides  and  bottom  whole.    Set  upon  the  upper  grat- 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         253 

ing  of  a  'hot  oven,  until  crisped  to  a  light  brown.  Turn,  and  toast 
the  bottom  of  the  cups;  then  butter  well.  Skin  and  head  8  sar- 
dines. Scrape  to  a  smooth  pulp,  and  mix  with  this  sauce.  Rub 
smooth  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  nearly  as  much  flour, 
thin,  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  season  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  anchovy  paste,  and  one  of  Worcestershire  sauce;  stir  in  the 
sardine  pulp,  and  when  it  begins  to  bubble,  fill  the  sardine  cups, 
which  should  have  been  kept  ht>t.  Send  around  sliced  lemon  with 
them. — Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Gaines,  3148  Groveland  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

GRILLED  SARDINES.— Cut  as  many  strips  of  bread  as  you 
have  sardines,  making  each  piece  a  little  longer  and  broader  than 
the  fish.  Toast  or  fry  these.  Roll  your  sai;;dines  in  tgg,  and  then 
in  line  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Lay  a  sardine 
on  each  strip  of  toast,  and  garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley. — Mrs. 
L.  C.  Hiazlett,  111  E.  Ohio  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ESCALLOPED  SCALLOPS.— Parboil  1  pt.  scallops  and  put 
into  a  baking-dish  with  2  cups  white  sauce  (milk  thickened  with 
flour  and  butter);  cover  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  a  nice 
brown. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

SCALLOPS. — Dry  them  after  washing  and  trim  away  the 
beard  and  black  parts,  and  roll  in  cracker  dust,  afterwards  in  egg 
and  crumbs,  mixed  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  drop  them  into  boil- 
ing fat  for  a  minute. — Mrs.  C.  J.  JefTries,  Winnetka,  111. 

CURRIED  SCALLOPS.— Stew  the  scallops  in  just  enough 
oyster  liquor  to  cover  them.  Bring  gradually  to  the  boil,  after 
which  cook  2  minutes.  Have  ready  in  another  vessel  a  white  sauce, 
made  by  stirring  into  a  tablespoon  of  hissing  hot  butter,  a  table- 
spoon of  white  flour  and  a  teaspoon  of  curry  powder;  add  to  these 
when  smooth  the  hot  liquor  from  the  scallops,  a  little  at  a  time, 
stirring  all  in.  Lastly,  put  in  the  scallops;  boil  1  minute,  and  serve. 
Garnish  with  rice  croquettes,  serving  these  instead  of  plain  boiled 
rice.  Serve  sliced  lemons  with  this  dish. — Mrs.  H.  E.  Gillette.  1841 
S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  SHAD. — Remove  the  scales  and  entrails,  leave  on  the 
heads  and  tails.  Wash  thoroughly  and  wipe  dry.  Fill  with  a  dress- 
ing made  of  1  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
a  little  chopped  onion,  14  teaspoon  of  marjoram,  some  of  salt  and 


254  FISH 

a  little  pepper.  Place  the  fish  in  a  well-greased  pan.  Dredge 
thickly  with  flour,  salt,  and  pepper.  Pour  a  cup  of  hot  water  in 
the  bottom  of  the  pan,  add  more  water,  if  necessary.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven,  allowing  15  minutes  to  every  pound.  Serve  with  roe 
sauce. 

Roe  Sauce. — Boil  the  roes  of  1  shad,  skin,  and  mash  fine;  add 
1  cup  of  drawn  butter,  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  E.  D,  Kelley,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

BOILED  SHAD  (Washington  Style).— Split  a  good-sized 
shad  down  the  back  and  lay  on  a  platter,  upon  which  is  1  table- 
spoon of  olive  oil,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  set  1  hr,  but  turn 
occasionally.  Rub  the  ♦)ars  of  a  double  gridiron  with  oil,  lay  on 
the  fish  and  broil  slowly.  Turn  frequently.  When  the  bone  can 
be  lifted  it  is  done.  Take  off  the  bone,  spread  over  a  large  piece 
of  ibutter,  salt  and  pepper.  Set  in  the  oven  a  minute. — Mrs.  E.  D. 
Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

SHAD  ROE — FRIED.— Before  boiling  the  shad,  place  the  roes 
in  a  spider  of  hot  fat.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  cook  well. 
Serve  on  a  platter  with  or  without  the  fish. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

PLANKED  SHAD — Remove  the  scales,  clean  wash  and  split 
the  S'had,  put  it  on  a  well-seasoned  and  heated  hardwood  board 
about  1^  inch  thick,  fasten  the  skin  down  on  one  side.  Put  the 
board  over  the  fire,  rubbing  it  once  in  a  while  with  butter  and  roast 
until  done.  Put  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  over  it  some  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  drop  bits  of  butter  on  it.  Serve  with  slices  of  lemons. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

ROASTED  SHAD  WITH  SORREL  PUREE.— This   is   the 

favorite  method  of  serving  this  fish  in  France.  Scrape  and  wash  a 
shad.  Wipe  it  dry  with  a  cloth,  and  rub  it  with  flour.  Stuff  with 
fish  quenquelles,  and  sew  the  opening.  Butter  a  baking-pan;  and 
put  the  fish  in  it,  with  small  pieces  of  butter' scattered  on  the  top. 
Put  it  in  the  oven,  and  bake  for  about  3^  of  an  hr.,  rhote~  or  less. 
according  to  its  size.  Baste  once  in  a  while  with,  the  melted  butter. 
Make  a  puree  of  sorrel,  and  serve  the  fish  on  a  platter  with  the 
puree  round  it. — Mrs.  D.  Gradman,  3828  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  IlL 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  255 

SHRIMPS  CREAMED.— Heat  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  V^ 
grated  onion.  When  hot,  stir  in  J^  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice;  add  a 
cup  of  cream  and  yz  pt.  of  canned  or  fresh  shrimps.  Stir  until  it 
comes  to  the  boiling  point,  let  simmer  about  5  minutes.  Serve  on 
toast. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRIED  SMELT.— Wash,  dress  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  Melt  a 
teaspoon  of  butter  and  pour  into  it  2  well-beaten  eggs,  salt  and 
flour  the  smelt,  dip  in  egg,  roll  them  in  cracker  crumbs,  fry  in  hot 
lard  and  butter,  mixed,  till  a  rich  brown.  Frogs'  legs  and  sweet- 
'breads  are  cooked  in  the  above  way,  first  scalding  them  for 
5  minutes  in  boiling  salt  and  water. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe, 
111. 

BOILED  RED  SNAPPER.— .Clean,  waish,  wipe  dry,  and  sew 
up  in  coarse  white  mosquito  netting.  Put  it  into  boiling  water 
deep  enough  to  cover  the  fish,  and  which  has  been  salted  and  fla- 
vored with  lemon  juice.  Let  the  water  come  to  the  boiling  point, 
then  reduce  the  heat  so  it  will  merely  bubble.  Simmer  about  J/2  an 
hr.  Lift  carefully  from  the  water,  drain,  and  unwrap;  put  it  into 
a  hot  dish.  Garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce,  or 
sauce  Hollandaise. — Mrs.  Clara  Hall,  3734  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

STEAMED  RED  SNAPPER.— Cover  the  bottom  of  your 
steamer  with  sliced  tomatoes,  and  on  these  strew  minced  onion.. 
Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  fish;  lay  upon  the  prepared  bed,  and  steam 
slowly,  at  least  1  hr.  for  a  fish  weig^hing  4  lbs.  Open  the  steamer 
once,  and  turn  very  carefully.  Serve  with  oyster  sauce,  or  with 
sauce  tartare. — Mrs.  B.  Haley,  641  N.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

STURGEON — 2  lbs.  of  sturgeon,  1  pt.  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of 
Sialt,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  saltspoon  of 
pepper.  Cut  the  fish  into  squares  of  2  inches;  put  them  into  a 
stewing-pan;  cover  with  2  qts.  of  boiling  water;  simmer  gently  15 
minutes,  and  drain,  and  throw  away  this  water.  Add  to  the  sauce- 
pan, the  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Moisten  the  flour  gradually  with 
the  milk;  strain  it  over  the  sturgeon;  bring  to  boiling  point  and 
serve.  Sturgeon  may  be  broiled,  panned  or  baked,  'but  must  al- 
ways be  parboiled  first. — Mrs.  Marie  Humphrey,  3446  S.  State  St., 
Chicago,  111. 


256  FISH 

MARYLAND  TERRAPIN.— Boil  the  terrapin  until  the  skin 
on  the  claws  is  sufficiently  soft  to  rub  off  at  the  slightest  touch. 
Take  from  the  shell  and  remove  every  particle  of  entrails  and 
lungs.  Place  the  meat  in  a  chafing-dish  or  stew-pan.  Add  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  the  quantity  of  each  depending  on  the  quantity  of 
flesh.  Let  it  simmer  until  the  essence  and  butter  reach  the  con- 
sistency of  light  gravy.  Serve  hot.  If  desired,  add  a  little  good 
sherry  while  eating,  but  not  while  cooking.  Use  no  spices,  dressing 
or  other  ingredients  that  can  detract  from  the  flavor. — Mrs.  E.  P. 
Hubbard,  3257  South  Park  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BROOK  TROUT.— Wash  and  dry  inside  and  outside  of  the  fish; 
sprinkle  a  little  pepper  and  salt  over  them  and  roll  in  cornmeal. 
Fry  in  1  part  butter  and  2  parts  lard,  about  8  minutes.  Drain,  and 
serve  with  slices  of  bacon  and  hard-'boiled  eggs,  cut  in  rings  and 
laid  around  the  platter. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

TO  FRY  BROOK  TROUT  OR  SMALL  FISH.— Clean  fish, 
■and  let  them  lie  a  few  minutes,  wrapped  snugly  in  a  dry,  clean 
towel.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  roll  in  cornmeal;  fry  in 
half  butter,  half  lard.  Drain  on  sieve,  an<l  serve  hot. — Mrs.  H.  A. 
Klein,  12  E.  48th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

STEWED  TROUT.— 2  fair-sized  trout,  Yz  an  onion,  sliced,  a 
little  chopped  parsley,  2  cloves,  1  blade  of  mace,  a  little  thyme,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  1  pt.  of  medium  stock,  thickening  of  butter 
and  flour.  Wash  the  fish  clean,  wipe  dry,  and  lay  it  in  a  stewpan 
with  all  the  ingredients  except  the  butter  and  flour.  Simmer  for 
Yz  an  hr.,  take  the  fish  out,  and  strain  the  gravy,  add  the  thicken- 
ing, and  stir  over  a  sharp  fire  for  5  minutes.  Pour  it  over  the 
trout,  and  serve.  Sufficient  for  4  or  6  persons. — Mrs.  Elizabeth 
Marrs,  55  E.  36th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

TWICE-LAID  TURBOT — The  remains  of  turbot  boiled  the 
day  previously,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  qt.  of  milk,  a  small  bunch 
of  parsley,  a  bay  leaf,  and  a  little  thyme,  a  spoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
saltspoon  of  pepper,  %  oi  3.  lb.  of  butter.  Pick  the  fish  from  the 
bones,  and  warm  it  gently  in  salt  and  water,  make  a  sauce  of  the 
ingredients  given  above  by  mixing  the  flour  and  milk  very  smooth- 
ly, adding  the  herbs  and  seasoning,  and  stirring  it  over  the  fire  un- 
til it  is  tolera!bly  thick;  then  lift  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and  stir  in 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  257 

the  butter.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  the  sauce,  lay  on  it 
some  of  the  tish,  S'prinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  repeat  till  the 
whole  is  used  up.  Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  it,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  for  20  minutes. — Mrs.  Cecelia  Miller,  611  Dearborn  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

FRICASEE  SNAPPING  TURTLE.— Have  your  fish  mer- 
chant clean  your  turtle  after  he  has  killed  him  by  throwing  him 
into  boiling  water.  Cut  the  turtle  into  neat  dice,  sprinkle  with  saJt, 
pepper,  onion  juice,  a  das^h  of  kitchen  bouquet,  and  a  tablespoon  of 
mushroom  catsup.  Turn  into  a  saucepan,  and  add  just  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  the  meat,  fit  a  top  on  the  vessel  and  simmer  for  Yz 
an  hr.  Now  add  a  tablespoon  of  browned  flour,  rubbed  to  a  paste 
with  a  tablespoon  of  butter;  wihen  this  is  blended  with  the  liquid  in 
the  pan,  add  a  glass  of  sherry,  and  stir  in  very  gradually  the  beaten 
yolk  of  an  t^Z-  Bring  to  the  boil,  and  remove  from  the  fire.  Turn 
into  a  deep  heated  dish.— Mrs.  Emma  Minter,  3334  S.  State  St.,  Chi- 
cago, III. 

DELICIOUS  LENTEN  DISH.— Parboil  a  whitefish  and  pick 
apart.  Make  a  sauce  of  1  pt.  of  milk,  2  eggs,  a  heaping  tablespoon 
of  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Butter  a  baking-dish,  put  in  a  layer  of 
fish,  pour  over  some  of  the  sau-ce,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  and  so  pro- 
ceed until  fish  and  sauce  are  used  up.  Cover  top  layer  with  fine 
bread  crumbs,  a  little  nutmeg  and  bake  a  golden  brown. — Mrs.  E. 
D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  III. 

DEVILED  WHITEFISH.— Boil  a  whitefish  weighing  about 
lYz  lbs.  15  minutes  in  salted  water.  Pick  in  small  pieces,  add  1 
tablespoon  of  butter,  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  J^  pt.  of  milk, 
and  1  tablespoon  of  flour.  Wet  and  make  smooth  in  a  little  of  the 
cold  milk.  Mix  thoroughly,  fill  into  little  shells  and  sprinkle  fine 
bread  crumbs  over  the  top,  put  a  lump  of  butter  on  each  one,  and 
bake  till  brown. — Mrs.  Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRIED  WHITEFISH.— Scale  and  draw  the  fish,  wash  in  cold 
water,  cut  off  the  head  and  fins,  split  down  the  back,  cut  the  lengths 
into  sections  of  the  desired  size,  roll  in  flour,  and  cook  in  very  hot 
dripping.  Do  not  let  burn.  It  is  done  when  well  browned  on  both 
sides.— Mrs.  Thos.  Perkins,  3747  S.  Wabaish  Ave.,  Chicago,  III. 


258  FISH 

PLANKED  WHITEFISH.— Take  a  hardwood  plank  of  well- 
seasoned  maple  or  oak,  about  1^  feet,  long,  10-12  inches  wide  and 
2  inches  thick.  Split  open  the  fish,  season  well,  lay  upon  the  plank 
and  bake.  If  the  fish  seems  too  dry,  slices  of  bacon  may  be  placed 
upon  the  fish  while  baking.  The  fish  should  be  served  on  the  plank, 
which  may  be  garnished  with  rock  salt  or  sprigs  of  parsley.  The 
plank  gives  a  peculiar  delicious  flavor,  which  distinguishes  it  from 
fish  baked  in  the  ordinary  way.  Serve  covered  fi&h  with  the  fol- 
lowing sauce:  4  tablespoons  creamed  butter,  2  tablespoons  lemon 
juice,  1  srpoonful  chopped  parsley. — 'Mrs.  -Conklin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

LEFT-OVERS 

FISH  BALLS — If  salt  cod  'be  used,  shred  it  finely  and  soak 
6  hrs.  Boil  Yz  ^an  hr,,  and  let  it  cool.  Mash  potatoes  to  a  cream, 
allow  half  as  much  potatoes  as  you  have  fish.  Mix  and  heat  by 
setting  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire,  stirring  frequently. 
When  hot,  beat  in  an  q.%^,  whip  smooth;  let  the  paste  get  cold, 
.make  into  balls  or  cakes,  roll  in  flour,  and  set  on  ice.  Of  course, 
this  should  be  done  over  night.  In  the  morning  fry  in  deep  boil- 
ing beef  dripping,  clarified,  or  in  cottolene  or  other  fat.  Cold 
fresh  cod,  makes  delicious  balls.  Proceed  as  with  salt  cod,  leav- 
ing out  the  soaking  and  salting  to  taste. — Mrs.  S.  Ackerman,  546 
E.  37th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

DROPPED  FISH  BALLS.— Pick  1  pt.  of  raw  fish  very  fine. 
Put  2  large  pts.  or  pared  potatoes  into  a  boiler  and  the  fish  on  top 
of  them,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  Y^  hr.  Drain  ofif  all  the 
water  and  mash  fish  and  potatoes  together  until  fine  and  light.  Add 
butter  size  of  an  tg^,  a  little  pepper,  and  2  eggs,  well-beaten.  Take 
up  a  tablespoon  of  the  mixture,  drop  it  in  a  deep  kettle  of  'boiling 
fat  and  cook  until  brown,  about  2  minutes.  Be  careful  not  to  crowd 
the  balls,  also  that  the  fat  is  hot  enough.  The  spoon  should  be 
dipped  in  the  fat  every  time  you  take  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture. — 
Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

FISH  CROQUETTES.— Mix  over  the  fire  1  teaspoon  of  flour, 
1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  ^  gill  of  cream.  Take  off  the  fire,  add 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  little  seasoning,  ^  lb.  of  cold  dressed  fish, 
beaten  to  a  paste.     Let  the  mixture  cool,  form  it  into  balls,  let 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  -       259 

these  be  egged  and  breiaded.     Fry  in  a  hot  oven,  serve  with  gravy. 
Gravy. — Boil  the  bones,  fins  and  tails  of  the  fish,  add  an  onion, 
anchovy,  and  season  to  taste. — ^^Mrs.  C.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

FISH  CUTLETS.— Season  with  salt  and  pepper  1  pt.  of  any 
kind  of  cold  cooked  fish,  make  a  little  thick  cream  sauce  of  milk, 
butter  and  flour;  when  cold  form  it  with  the  fish  into  shapes  of 
cutlets.  Put  the  cutlets  into  cracker  crumbs,  then  into  egg  and 
again  into  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  fat  until  brown. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kel- 
ley, Winnetka,  111. 

MARINADE  FOR  COLD  BOILED  FISH.— Left-over  cold 
boiled  fish  may  be  served  as  a  side  dish,  when  it  has  been  put  to 
mariner  in  the  following  marinade  for  2  or  3  hrs.,-  before  meal  time. 
Bone  and  skin  the  fish,  cutting  it  in  the  shape  of  dice.  Put  it  in 
the  disih  in  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Sprinkle  over  salt  and  pepper, 
cover  with  a  very  few  thin  slices  of  onion,  1  or  2  bay  leaves,  a  little 
thyme,  vinegar,  and  olive  oil. — Mrs.  B.  Haley,  641  N.  State  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

A  "PICK  UP"  OF  FISH— A  cupful  of  cold  cooked  fish— cod- 
halibut,  salmon,  or  any  other  firm  fish;  the  same  quantity  of  cooked 
macaroni,  cut  into  small  bits;  Yz  a  cup  of  tomato  sauce,  1  cup  of 
oyster  liquor,  which  any  fish  dealer  will  give  you;  a  heaping  table- 
spoon of  butter,  and  the  same  of  flour>  a  teaspoon  of  onion  juice, 
and  the  same  of  minced  parsley.  Salt  and  paprika  to  taste.  Heat 
the  butter  in  a  saucepan;  stir  in  the  flour,  .and  when  it  bubbles,  the 
tomato  sau'ce,  the  oyster  liquor,  and  the  seasoning.  Boil  up  once, 
add  fish  and  macaroni;  heat  to  a  bub'ble,  without  stirring,  and  turn 
into  a  deep  dish. — Mrs.  Clara  Hall,  3734  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ESCALLOPED  FISH.— Mix  together  2  cups  mashed  pota- 
toes, Ij^  cups  cold  boiled  fish,  2  cups  milk,  1  t^^,  and  ^  cup  butter, 
pirt  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  bake  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry, 
Glencoe,  111. 


FOWL 


TO  BONE  A  FOWL.— Wash  and  singe,  take  off  head  and 
legs,  remove  tendons — do  not  draw  or  break  skin?.  Use  a  small 
pointed  knife.  Cut  the  skin  down  the  full  length  of  the.  back,  then, 
beginning  at  the  neck,  carefully  scrape  the  meat  away  from  bone, 
keeping  the  knife  close  to  the  bone.  Breakpoints  of  wings  and 
legs,  and  proceed  to  free  the  meat  from  the  carcass.  When  one 
side  is  free,  turn  the  fowl  and  repeat  the  process.  Care  must  be 
taken  to  detach  the  skin  from  the  breast  bone  without  piercing  the 
skin.  When  meat  is  free  from  the  carcass,  remove  bones  from  legs 
and  wings,  turning  the  meat  down  inside  out,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  skin  at  the  joints.  The  end  bones  of  the  wings  cannot 
be  removed  and  the  whole  end  joint  may  be  cut  off  or  left. — Mrs.  M. 
Abbott,  3015  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

TO  BOIL  A  FOWL.— For  boiling,  choose  those  that  are  not 
black-legged.  Pick  them  nicely,  singe,  wash  and  truss  them.  Flour 
them  and  put  into  hot  water.  Simmer  for  ^  of  an  hr.  Serve  with' 
parsley  and  butter;  oysters,  lemon,  or  celery  sauce. — Mrs.  J.  P. 
Alexander,  3606  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

JELLIED  FOWL.— Boil  a  foAvl  until  it  will  slip  easily  from 
the  bones,  let  the  water  be  reduced  to  about  1  pt.  in  boiling.  Pick 
the  meat  from  the  bones,  mince,  and  place  in  a  wet  mould.  Skim 
the  fat  from  the  liquor,  add  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  ^ 
oz.  of  gelatine.  When  this  dissolves,  pour  it  hot  over  the  chicken. 
The  liquor  must  be  well  seasoned,  as  the  chicken  absorbs, — Mrs.  J. 
C  Allen,  1362  N.  Clark  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

GRILLED  FOWL.— Cut  the  remain?  of  any  cold  fowl  into 
pieces,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  squeeze  over  them  the  juice  of 
Yz  a  lemon,  and  let  stand  for  ^  of  an  hr.  Wipe  dry,  dip  into 
clarified  butter,  and  then  into  bread  crumbs,  with  a  little  grated 
lemon  peel.  Put  them  on  a  gridiron  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire. 
They  may  be  fried  instead  of  broiled,  and  should  then  be  dipped  in 

260 


*   COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  ^6l 

the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  clarified  butter. — Mrs.  W.  L.  Anderson,  728 
E.  38th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

MINCED  FOWL. — Mince  very  fine  all  the  white  meat  from 
any  kind  of  cold  roast  fowl,  removing  the  bones  and  skin.  Put 
into  a  stewpan  with  all  the  trimmings,  a  'bunch  of  savory  herbs,  ^ 
a  blade  of  mace  and  a  pt.  of  soup  stock  or  water,  let  stew  far 
nearly  an  hr.,  and  then  strain  it  off.  Chop  2  hard-boiled  eggs  very 
fine,  season  the  fow^l  with  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  pounded  mace, 
mix  it  with  the  eggs,  pour  in  the  gravy,  having  previously  added 
butter  and  flour  enough  to  thicken,  and  a  little  cream;  let  it  get 
very  hot,  but  not  boil,  and  serve  with  sippets  of  toasted  bread. — 
Mrs.  I.  Armentro,  3839  Vernon  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

TO  ROAST  OLD  FOWL.— Dress  and  soak  in  cold  water  for 
2  hrs.  Boil  until  tender,  put  into  roaster  and  stuff  with  a  sage 
dressing.  Spread  2  tablespoons  of  flour  mixed  with  butter  over 
the  chicken.  Put  in  oven  and  bake  until  a  nice  brown. — Mrs.  E. 
D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

STEAMED  FOWL. — Clean  and  wipe  dry  a  plump  hen  weigh- 
ing about  3  or  4  lbs.  Make  a  filling  of  1  head  of  celery,  chopped' 
fine,  1  onion,  chopped  fine,  3  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  without  crusts, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  y^  of  pepper,  1  tgg,  well  beaten,  and  butter 
size  of  a  large  egg.  Mix  well,  stuff  the  fowl,  sew  up  and  steam 
at  least  2  hrs.,  or  until  tender.  Have  not  more  than  3  pts.  of  water 
in  the  granite  or  porcelain  kettle  or  pan,  keep  adding  a  little  boil- 
ing water  to  this,  as  needed,  and  let  boil  down  to  at  least  1  qt. 

For  the  Sauce. — Rub  2  tablespoons  of  flour  until  smooth,  1^4 
teaspoons  of  salt,  a  little  black  and  red  pepper,  J/2  pt.  of  the  water 
in  which  the  chicken  was  steamed.  Rub  altogether,  cook  till 
smooth  and  creamy,  have  ready  1  pt.  of  celery,  cut  fine,  and  boil 
until  tender;  add'  to  the  sauce;  boil  up  briskly  and  poux  over  the 
fowl.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley. — Mrs.  Eloise  Jennings,  Win- 
netka, III. 

STUFFING  OR  DRESSING  FOR  FOWL.— 3  cups  bread 
crumbs,  1  cup  onions,  finely  chopped,  1  t^ablespoon  summer  savory, 
1  tablespoon  sage,  1  teaspoon  black  pepper,  1  teaspoon  salt,  J^  cup 
butter,  bacon  drippings  or  salt  pork,  chopped  fine;  put  butter  in 
the   frying-pan,  heat,   then   add   the  ingredients;   when   hot   add   ^2 


262  FOWL 

cup  hot  water,  cover,  let  steam  a  few  minutes;  when  it  will  mash 
nicely  it  is  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  Jennie  Austin,  3826  S.  La  Salle 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

FORCEMEAT    FOR    STUFFING    BONED    FOWLS.— Use 

meat  of  another  fowl  or  veal,  or  a  mixture  of  both.  Chop  fine,  and 
add  a  cup  crumbs,  and  if  convenient  some  chopped  ham  or  tongue; 
season  with  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  thyme,  moisten 
with  stock.  If  veal  is  used  take  it  from  knuckle  and  use  the  bone 
in  braizing  pot,  as  it  will  leave  la  good  jelly.  In  stuffing,  be  careful 
that  too  much  is  not  used,  as  allowance  must  be  made  for  the 
swelling. — Mrs.  Isaac  Avas,  164  W.  Chicago,  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SAGE  AND  ONION  STUFFING.— Skin,  blanch,  and  chop 
lYz  Spanish  onions  and  cook  in  1  tablespoon  butter  for  15  minutes. 
Add  sage  and  seasoning  to  taste,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  and  1  egg. 
Mix  well  together,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  C.  Baker,  1118  N. 
Clark  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

GERMAN  POULTRY  DRESSING.— 2  cups  bread  crumbs,  ^ 
cup  raisins,  1  large  sour  apple,  sugar  to  sweeten  and  milk  to  moist- 
en; raisins  and  apples  to  be  chopped  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste. — Mrs.  P.  A.  Badorf,  423-5  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

GRAVY. — Boil  tomatoes  with  same  quantity  and  a  half  of  wa- 
ter and  aimount  desired  of  onions,  garlic,  celery,  parsley,  and  some 
bones  of  roast  beef  or  -chicken  bones.  Marrow  or  butter  can  be 
used  instead  of  the  bones,  as  it  is  simply  the  oil  from  the  bones 
that  is  desired.  Boil  3  hrs.  and  then  add  bouillon.  Steam  and 
boil  again  with  flour  to  thicken  slightly,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  suit 
taste. — Mrs.  Chias.  Becker,  38  E.  47th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

DUMPLINGS.— Put  a  pt.  of  sifted  flour  into  a  bowl  with  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder  and  a  J4  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt;  mix  thor- 
oughly; wet  with  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Toss  on  a  floured 
board,  roll  out  lightly  to  about  a  thickness  of  1/2  an  inch,  and  gut 
into  fine  round  biscuits  or  squares,  and  place  on  top  of  the  stew. 
Cover  closely  and  let  the  steam  from  the  boiling  stew  cook  them 
for  at  least  20  minutes.  Do  not  uncover  them  in  the  meantime,  or 
they  will  be  heavy. — Mrs.  H.  M.  Bremner,  1725  Ogden  Place,  Chi- 
dago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  263 

VARIATION  I. — 1  qt.  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  little 
salt.  Whip  up  well  with  fork.  Sift  baking  powder  all  through, 
pour  on  cold  water,  a  little  at  a  time,  land  whip  with  fork,  and  add 
water  until  smooth  and  thick  batter.  Then  dip  a  tablespoon  into 
flour  and  take  up  dumpling  batter  and  drop  in  kettle,  then  in  flour, 
and  repeat.  This  keeps  the  dumplings  from  running  together. 
Stop  kettle  airtight,  and  do  not  remove  cover  for  30  minutes. 
Cook  over  moderate  fire. — Ida  Burke,  704  N.  State  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 

VARIATION  II. — 1  cup  flour,  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 
little  salt,  make  quite  stiff  enough  to  drop  from  spoon.  Turn  some 
3  or  4  times  in  kettle.  Cook  with  lid  off. — ^Mrs.  Mary  Buckner,  2817 
S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

FOWL  WITH  RICE.— Clean  and  prepare  a  fowl.  Put  3  qts. 
of  water  in  a  pot  large  enough  to  contain  it  with  the  fowl.  Add 
stalt,  pepper,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  tied  up  with  1  or  2  bay  leaves, 
1  or  2  cloves  of  garlic,  2  small  carrots,  left  whole,  or  1  large  one 
cut  in  several  pieces,  and  3  onions.  Set  on  a  good  fire,  and  when  it 
boils  put  in  the  fowl.  Cover  and  boil  about  3  hrs.  One  hour  be- 
fore it  is  done,  clean  and  wash  a  small  ^  pt.  of  rice  put  it  to  cook 
with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it.  When  it  thickens,  as  it  is 
needed,  a  small  quantity  of  the  water  in  w^hich  the  fowl  is  cooking. 
Keep  the  rice  thick  and  do  not  stir  it  while  cooking,  if  you  wisih 
to  keep  it  from  burning.  Let  simmer  slowly.  When  done  ar- 
range it  around  the  fowl  on  the  dish  and  serve  with  the  following 
sauce  in  a  sauce-iboat:  Ten  minutes  before  serving  put  in  a  small 
saucepan  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  tgg.  When  it  is  melted 
stir  in  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  ^  pt.  of  water  in  which  the  fowl  is 
cooking.  Stir  until  smooth.  Boil  and  take  off  the  fire.  Stir  in  2 
beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  and  serve. — Mrs. 
M.  C.  Cauler,  3245  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHICKEN 

BAKED  CHICKEN.— Make  a  dressing  of  bread,  shredded,  on- 
ions, a  little  celery  seed,  salt  and  pepper  and  a  lump  of  butter.  If 
desired,  sage  may  be  put  in,  but  in  small  quantity.  One  egg  and  a 
cup  of  milk.  Cover  the  breast  of  the  fowl  with  strips  of  fat  pork, 
when  these  are  crisp,  shake  them  away  and  lay  a  lump  of  butter 


264  FOWL 

on  the  brown  breast.  Baste  frequently.  Let  the  fowl  bake  until 
very  tender,  then  lay  it  on  the  dish  and  make  gravy. — Mrs.  A.  E. 
Whitney,  1760  Edgewater  Place,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Cut  the  fowls  open  and  lay  them  flat  in  a 
pan,  breaking  down  the  breast  and  the  back  'bones,  dredge  with 
flour,  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  with  bits  of  butter;  put 
in  a  very  hot  oven  until  done,  basting  frequently  with  melted  but- 
ter, or  when  half  done  take  out  the  chicken  .and  finish  by  broiling 
it  u<pon  a  gridiron  over  bright  coals.  Pour  over  it  melted  butter 
and  the  juices  in  the  pan  in  which  it  was  baked. — Mrs.  B.  O.  Fort- 
son,  3135  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOSTON  BAKED  CHICKEN.— Clean,  joint,  and  prepare  a 
chicken  as  for  frying.  Season  3^  cup  flour,  with  pepper,  salt  and 
celery  salt.  Roll  the  chicken  in  the  flour  and  pack  closely  in  a 
bean  jar  or  a  baking-pan  with  a  tight-fitting  lid.  Pour  2  cups  of 
boiling  water  over  and  dot  with  lumps  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  brisk 
oven  for  15  minutes,  and  then  bake  slowly  till  done.  The  time  re- 
quired depends  on  the  age  of  the  fowl.  Any  tough,  ol-d  fowl  maj' 
be  prepared  in  this  manner,  and  will  be  tender  and  delicious.— 
Clara  Rapp,  7129  R)ho<ies  Ave..  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Prepare  chicken  as  for  stewing,  roll  each 
piece  in  flour,  place  in  a  small  dripping  pan,  sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  some  butter,  fill  the  pan  half  full  of  sweet  milk,  cook 
in  the  oven  for  1  hr.  The  milk  makes  a  nice  gravy. — Mrs.  H.  B. 
Wright,  3813  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  Til. 

BAKED  MINCED  CHICKEN.— Mix  together  2  cups  of 
minced  cold  chicken,  lamb  or  veal.  1  cup  of  chopped  ham  and  1 
cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs.  Moisten  thoroughly  with  well-seasoned 
soup  stock.  Turn  into  a  greased  bake-dish  and  set  in  the  oven 
until  heated  through.  Break  upon  the  top  of  the  mince  as  many 
eggs  as  will  lie  side  by  si<le  on  it.  sprinkle  wnth  salt  and  pepper,  re- 
turn to  the  oven  and  bake  until  the  whites  are  set  and  firm.  Send 
to  table  in  a  pudding  dish. — Mrs.  Frank  Mullins.  Franklin,  Til. 

CHICKEN  IN  BASKETS.— To  3  cups  of  hot  mashed  pota- 
toes, add  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  enough  milk  to  moisten.     Shape  in  form 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  265 

of  small  baskets,  using  a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  Brush  over  with 
white  of  Ggg,  slightly  beaten,  and  brown  in  oven.  Fill  with 
creamed  chicken.  For  handles  of  baskets  use  parsley. — Mrs.  E. 
D.  Bennett,  Bartlett,  111. 

BRAISED  CHICKEN.— Cover  the  grating  of  your  roaster 
with  a  blanket  of  vegetables,  a  small,  young  turnip,  an  onion, 
a  young  carrot,  a  stalk  of  celery^  all  cut  up  small;  a  little 
chopped  parsley  and  2  tablespoons  of  finely  minced  salt  pork. 
Have  ready  the  chicken  cleaned  and  trussed,  ibut  not  stuffed.  Lay, 
breast  upward,  on  the  vegetables  and  pork.  Pour  a  little  boiling 
water  over  it  from  the  tea  kettle  and  set  covered  in  the  oven. 
Cover  closely  and  cook  at  least  20  minutes  to  the  lb.  if  the  chicken 
be  young.  If  old,  extend  the  time.  At  the  end  of  1  hr,  lift  the 
cover  and  baste  with  butter,  then  with  the  water  from  the  pan,  and 
shut  up  for  an  hr.  longer.  Uncover,  then  rub  with  butter  and 
dredge  with  flour,  and  brown.  Drain  the  gravy  with  the  vegeta- 
ble from  the  pan,  rub  through  a  colander  into  a  saucepan,  thicken 
with  browned  flour,  boil  up,  and  serve  in  a  boat. — Mrs.  Maggie 
Ford,  1,20  W.  Indiana  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BREADED  CHICKEN.— Cut  a  small  spring  chicken,  after  it 
has  been  cleaned  and  drawn,  into  4  pieces;  dust  with  sialt  and  pep- 
per, dip  them  in  a  beaten  egg,  to  which  you  have  added  a  table- 
spoon of  water,  and  dust  thoroughly  with  fresh  bread  crumbs, 
which  must  not  be  browned.  Place  the  pieces  in  a  baking-pan, 
bone  side  down,  and  run  into  a  quick  oven  until  a  golden  brown. 
This  will  take  about  40  minutes.  People  who  have  been  accus- 
tomed to  fried  chicken  will  think  this  very  nice.  Diah  neatly,  and 
serve  in  a  sauce  boat.  Bechamel  or  cream  sauce.  For  supper,  serve 
with  them  either  cornbread  or  milk  biscuit.  For  lunch,  green  peas 
and  cream  sauce  only. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Fitzpatrick,  3031  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BROILED  CHICKEN  BREASTS  WITH  BREAD  SAUCE. 

— Skin  your  chicken  breasts,  but  do  not  remove  the  flesh  from  the 
bone.  Butter  them  over  liberally,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Place 
in  pan,  and  put  in  a  hot  oven  for  10  minutes,  baste  frequently  with 
the  melted  butter.  Now  remove  from  pan  to  broiler  and  brown 
over  the  hot  coals.  Add  to  the  melted  butter  remaining  in  the 
bake-pan  1  small  chopped  onion,  and  1  pt.  of  milk,  bring  all  to  the 


266  FOWL 

boiling  point;  now  stir  in  slowly  1  cup  of  soft  whole  wheat  bread 
crumbs  and  add  a  dash  of  paprika.  Place  the  chicken  breasts  on 
a  hot  platter,  and  pour  the  bread  sauce  around  them.  Serve. — Mrs. 
P.  J.  Farmer,  381  E.  22nd  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BROILED  CHICKEN.— Singe  and  split  a  young  spring  chick- 
en down  the  back.  Break  the  joints;  remove  the  breastbone,  clean 
and  wipe  with  a  wet  cloth.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  rub 
well  with  soft  butter.  Place  in  a  double  gridiron  and  broil  20 
minutes  over  a  clear  fire.  Spread  with  butter,  and  serve  very  hot. 
Or  cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  J4  an  hr. 
Serve  with  tartar  sauce. 

To  Carve. — Separate  the  legs  and  wings,  and  then  separate  the 
breast  from  the  lower  part. — Mrs.  William  O.  Everson,  35  E.  22nd 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CANNED  CHICKEN.— Joint  the  chicken  as  for  fricasee,  cover 
with  cold  water,  and  bring  slowly  to  the  boil.  Simmer  until  ten- 
der, but  not  broken.  When  done,  add  salt  to  the  liquor,  boil  all  up 
once,  then  remove  the  ohicken  and  pack  in  wide-mouthed  jars. 
Pack  in  as  tightly  as  possible.  Stand  the  jars  at  the  side  of  the 
range  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  boil  up  the  chicken  liquor,  fill  the 
jars  to  overflowing  with  the  scalding  liquid,  and  seal  immediately. 
—Mrs.  Geo.  R.  Edmonds,  424  E.  39th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHICKEN  EN  CASSEROLE.— Truss  the  chicken,  which 
must  be  young  and  plump,  as  for  roasting.  Into  a  frying-pan  on 
top  of  the  range  put  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  a  sliced  onion  and  a 
carrot,  a  ba^^  leaf  and  a  sprig  of  thyme.  Wihen  the  vegetables  are 
slightly  browned  put  with  the  chicken  into  the  casserole,  add  a  pt. 
of  well-seasoned  stock,  cover  the  casserole  and  cook  in  the  oven 
for  }i  of  an  hr.  After  it  has  been  in  the  oven  for  this  length  of 
time  drop  in  a  dozen  potato  (balls  or  strips  that  have  been  cut  from 
raw  potatoes,  and  saute  in  hot  butter  and  a  dozen  French  mush- 
rooms. Season  the  gravy  to  taste  and  leave  the  casserole  uncov- 
ered that  the  chicken  may  brown.  Ten  minutes  before  taking  from 
the  oven,  pour  over  the  chicken  2  tablespoons  of  sherry.  When 
you  take  the  chicken  from  the  oven  sprinkle  it  with  minced  pars- 
ley. Serve  in  the  casserole. — Viola  Davis,  3442  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  267" 

CHICKEN  A  LA  CASSEROLE.— Take  2  broilers  and  pre- 
pare them  as  for  roasting.     Put  the  saucepan  on  a  bright  fire  with 

3  good  tablespoons  of  butter  and  a  ^  of  a  lb.  of  pork,  cut  like  dice. 
Wthen  the  butter  begins  to  brown,  put  in  the  chickens,  with  a  dozen 
or  more  small,  white  onions — no  salt,  the  pork  being  salted — and 
pepper.  Cover  and  cook  for  20  minutes  or  y^  an  hr.,  according  to 
the  size  of  the  chickens.  Turn  them  several  times  while  cooking, 
and  if  the  fire  is  too  hot  and  they  brown  too  quickly  remove  the 
saucepan  a  little  distance  from  the  hot  part  of  the  fire.  When 
done,  take  the  chicken  out  and  remove  the  string.  Before  return- 
ing them  to  the  saucepan,  if  they  are  to  'be  served  in  it,  add  to  the 
gravy  3  or  4  tablespoons  of  boiling  water,  scrape  the  bottom  of  the 
saucepan  with  an  iron  fork,  and  serve.  If  served  on  a  platter  pro- 
ceed in  like  manner,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  chicken  before 
serving. — Mrs.  Chas.  Culp,  245  E.  Ohio  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHADFROID  OF  SUPREME  OF  CHICKEN.— Prepare 
and  cook  a  dozen  "Fillets  of  chicken,  plain."  Set  to  press  under  a 
weight,  and  when  cold  trim  and  cover  them  with  tombto  Chadfroid 
sauce;  when  the  sauce  has  set  decorate  half  of  the  fillets  with  pieces 
of  trufil;le,  to  form  a  star,  and  the  other  half  with  pieces  of  hard- 
boiled  white  of  an  tzz,  to  form  the  siame  design;  pour  over  the 
fillets  a  little  liquid  aspic  to  set  the  decoration  and  give  a  glossy 
surface.  Chop  a  little  aspic  very  fine,  and  with  forcing  bag  and 
plain  tube  dispose  this  around  the  edge  of  each  fillet.  Set  aside 
to  become  thoroughly  chilled.  Mix  a  cup  in  all  of  cooked  peas, 
asparagus  tips,  tiny  rounds  of  carrot,  and  cubes  of  turnip,  J^  cup 
of  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  1^  cups  of  liquid  aspic.  Stir  these 
gently  together  on  ice  until  beginning  to  set,  then  turn  into  a  con- 
cave border  mould  and  set  aside  to  become  firm.  When  ready  to 
serve,  unmould  the  jellied  macedoine  on  a  serving-dish,  arrange 
the  fillets  upon  it,  one  overlapping  another,  and  fill  the  center  with 
some  of  the  vegetables  used  in  the  moulded  macedoine;  dress  with 
either  French  of  mayonnaise  dressing.  Surround  the  whole  with 
chopped  aspic.  Medallions  of  sweetbread,  fillets  of  birds,  etc.,  Qiay 
be  substituted  for  the  chicken  fillets. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennett,  Bart- 
lett,  111. 

CHICKEN  CHEESE.— Take  a  plump  chicken,  weighing  about 

4  or  5  I'bs.  when  dressed,  put  on  and  boil  till  tender  and  well  done, 


268  FOWL 

remove  all  the  bones  and  gristly  parts  and  chop  fine  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper;  boil  down  the  water  it  was  cooked  in  to  la  pt..  and 
when  it  jellies  stir  it  in  with  the  chicken.  Make  a  dressing  as  fol- 
lows: 1  small  loaf  of  baker's  bread  put  through  the  meat  grinder^ 
and  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  cut  fine,  a  little  sage,  salt  and 
pepper,  2  beaten  eggs,  stirred  in  to  hold  it  together;  put  hialf  of 
the  chicken,  chopped,  in  a  deep  earthen  or  granite  dish,  spread 
level;  put  on  the  dressing,  spread  level,  then  the  rest  of  the  minced 
chicken;  this  will  almost  fill  the  dish;  set  in  the  oven  till  hot,  then 
set  in  a  cool  place  over  night;  when  cold,  slice  and  serve. — Mrs. 
Wm.  Creger,  742  E.  48th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHOP  SUEY  (a  Chinese  Recipe). — Clean  and  scrape  the  meat 
from  the  bones  of  J^  chicken,  cut  into  strips  about  1^/^  in.  long  and 
^  in.  wide.  If  pork  is  used  cut  an  equal  quantity  cut  in  strips  the 
same  length.  Slice  I  large  onion,  thin;  soak  a  handful  of  mush- 
rooms 10  minutes  in  water,  then  remove  the  stems;  cut  1  stalk  of 
celery  into  pieces  1  in.  long.  Chinese  potatoes  require  no  cook- 
ing; simply  wash  and  slice.  First  put  chicken  and  pork  into  a  fry- 
ing pan  with  fat  and  fry  until  done,  but  not  brown  or  hard.  Then 
add  the  sliced  onions  and  cook  a  little.  Add  mushrooms.  Now 
pour  enough  Chinese  sauce  over  the  ingredients  to  make  them 
brown.  Add  some  water  and  stew  a  few  minutes.  Add  celery, 
and  after  a  minute  add  the  potatoes.  Make  a  gravy  with  the  broth. 
The  Chinese  potatoes,  mushrooms  and  Chinese  sauce  can  be  pro- 
cured at  any  Chinese  grocery.  If  the  rice  is  not  cooked  properly 
it  will  detract  greatly  from  the  good  taste  of  the  chop  suey.  Other- 
wise it  is  a  very  palatable  dish. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Cook,  2630  S.  State  St., 
Chicago,  111.  0 

CREAMED  CHICKEN.— Make  a  white  sauce  of  2  tablespoons 
of  butter  and  half  as  much  flour;  when  it  bubbles,  add  a  cup  of 
cold  chicken,  cut  into  dice,  a  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste,  and  enough  stock  to  keep  all  fro-m  burning.  Cook  for 
10  minutes  before  stirring  in  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  and 
a  cup  of  rich  milk,  heated,  with  a  pinch  of  soda  stirred  in. — Mrs. 
C.  E.  Jefferson,  505  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Put  1  pt.  of  cream  or  rich  milk  on  stove  to 
^boil,  mix  3  tablespoons  of  flour,   1   teaspoon  of  mustard,  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  add  3  tablespoons 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         269 

of  boiling  milk;  stir  all  into  remaining  milk  and  boil  2  minutes. 
Add  1  pt.  of  shredded  chicken,  salmon,  fish  or  oyster  meat  and 
turn  into  pan,  cover  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  bits  of  butter  on 
top.  Bake  20  minutes. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

VARIATION  XL— Boil  a  4^-lb.  chicken  and  4  sweetbreads, 
and  when  cold  cut  up  as  for  salad.  In  a  saucepan  put  4  coffee  cups 
cream,  in  another  4  large  tablespoons  butter  and  5  even  ones  of 
flour;  stir  until  melted,  then  pour  on  the  hot  cream,  stirring  until 
it  thickens;  flavor  wilh  a  small  half  of  grated  onion,  and  a  very 
little  grated  nutmeg;  season  highly  with  black  and  red  pepper. 
Put  chicken  and  ingredients  together  with  sweetbreads  and  1  can 
mushrooms  (which,  if  large,  should  be  cut  in  4  pieces)  in  a  baking- 
dish;  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  pieces  of  butter,  and  bake  20 
minutes.  It  can  be  made  without  sweetbreads,  but  is  not  as  good. 
Serves  16  persons. — Mrs.  L.  Conroy,  512  Cass  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  III. — Carve  enough  meat  from  a  cold  roast 
chicken  to  make  a  pt.  when  cut  into  small  dice.  Cook  together  in  a 
saucepan  a  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour;  when  they  are 
blended  pour  upon  them  a  cup  of  white  stock,  and  when  this  is 
thick,  a  cup  of  milk.  Stir  to  a  smooth  sauce,  and  add  the  minced 
chicken.  Season  to  taste.  Cook  until  the  meat  is  very  hot,  and 
serve. — Mrs.  Roger  Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

CREAMED    CHICKEN,    POTATOES    AND    PEPPERS.— 

Saute  Yi  a  green  pepper,  ohopped  fine,  in  3  tablespoons  of  flour 
and  a  J^  teaspoon  of  salt;  when  frothy,  add  gradually  a  cup  of 
chicken  stock  and  ^  cup  of  cream,  stir  until  smooth  and  at  the 
boiling  point,  then  set  over  hot  water  and  heat  in  the  sauce  1  cup 
of  chicken,  cut  in  cubes,  and  J^  cup  of  cold  cooked  potatoes,  also 
cut  in  cubes.  Turnip,  carrot,  peas  or  asparagus  tips  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  the  potatoes. — Mrs,  Clark  K.  Mason,  Bensen,  111. 

CREAM  FORCEMEAT  OF  CHICKEN  (Ranhofer).— Scrape 
y2  lb.  flesh  of  the  chicken  from  the  fibre  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar 
to  a  smooth  pulp,  adding  a  little  white  of  tgg  occasionally,  to  facil- 
itate the  process;  return  the  pulp  to  the  mortar  after  sifting  and 
pound  into  it,  gradually,  5  oz.  butter  and  4  yolks  or  whites  of  eggs; 
add  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,   and  set   the  mixture   upon  the   ice. 


270  FOWL 

When  chilled,  beat  thoroughly,  and  add  to  it,  slowly,  the  1  pt. 
whipped  cream.  Shape  a  little  of  the  forcemeat  into  a  J^-inch  ball 
and  poach  nearly  10  minutes  in  water  just  "off  the  boil."  If  too 
firm,  add  more  cream.  If  not  sufficiently  consistent  add  a  little 
more  egg.  Dark  meat  of  chicken,  game,  firm  fish,  turkey  or  veal 
may  be  substituted  for  the  chicken. — Mrs.  Roger  Rawlings,  Chi- 
cago Heights,  111. 

CHICKEN    CROQUETTES    WITH    CELERY     TOAST.— 

Stew  inch  lengths  of  celery  until  soft;  run  through  a  vegetable 
press,  mix  with  a  thin  wjiite  sauce,  seasoning  with  paprika,  salt  and 
a  dash  of  onion  juice;  boil  up  once  and  put  into  a  pudding  dish 
with  ialternate  layers  of  lightly  toasted  bread,  which  have  been 
dipped  into  the  salted  water,  poured  off  from  the  boiled  celery. 
Cover  and  set  in  the  oven  for  10  minutes,  then  serve  in  the  bake- 
dish.— Mrs.  Frank  Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

CRUSTADES  OF  CHICKEN.— Cover  the  outside  of  small 
moulds  or  tin  cake  cups  with  thin  pufif-paste.  Prick  and  bake,  re- 
move from  the  moulds  and  fill  with  mixture  of  mushrooms  and 
chicken  breasts,  chopped  fine,  and  moistened  with  highly  seasoned 
cream  sauce. — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Miayfair,  111. 

CURRY  CHICKEN.— Cut  the  chicken  at  the  joints  and  re- 
move the  breast  hones.  Wipe,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge 
with  flour  and  brown  lightly  in  hot  butter.  Put  in  a  stewpan.  Fry 
1  large  onion,  cut  in  thin  slices,  in  the  butter  left  in  the  pan  till 
colored,  but  not  ibrowned.  Mix  1  large  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon of  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  of  curry  powder,  and  brown  them 
in  the  butter.  Add  slowly  1  cup  of  water  or  stock  and  1' cup  of 
strained  tomatoes,  or  1  sour  apple,  chopped,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Pour  this  sauce  over  the  chicken  and  simmer  1  hr.,  or 
till  tender.  Add  1  cup  of  hot  milk  or  cream.  Boil  1  minute  long- 
er, and  serve  with  a  border  of  boiled  rice.  Rabbit,  veal  and  lamb 
may  be  curried  in  the  same  way. — Mrs.  L.  V.  Clements,  19  E.  22nd 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHICKEN  CUTLETS,  PARKER  HOUSE  STYLE.— Pre- 
pare a  croquette  mixture,  using  the  formula  given  for  chicken  and 
sweetbread  croquettes,  but  omitting  the  sweetbreads  at  choice. 
Form  the  chilled  mixture  into  cutlet  shapes,  dip  into  a  yolk  of  eg^, 


\ 

COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         271 

beaten  and  diluted  with  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  to  each  yolk 
of  egg,  then  into  fine  bread  crumbs,  dispose  on  a  buttered  baking- 
pan,  agate  preferred,  land  reheat  in  a  hot  oven.  Pipe  a  duchess 
potato  mixture  on  to  the  edge  of  the  cutlets,  brush  with  beaten 
yolk  of  tgg,  and  reheat  in  the  oven;  fill  the  open  centers  with  but- 
tered peas  or  asparagus  tips.  The  asparagus  tips  may  be  mixed 
with  Hollandaise  sauce.  Note  that  the  yolks  of  eggs  only  are  used 
in  egging,  land  that  the  cutlets  are  not  double  breaded. — 'Mrs.  Ab- 
ner  Grant,  Sherman,  111, 

CHICKEN  CUSTARD.— Scald  together  1  cup  of  strong  chick- 
en stock  and  1  cup  of  cream.  Pour  it  over  the  well-beaten  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  till  slightly  thickened.  Salt 
to  taste,  and  serve  cool  in  custard  cups. — Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908 
S.  8th  Ave.,  MayAvood,  III. 

CHICKEN  AND  EGGS  SCALLOPED.— Strew  fine,  dry,  but- 
tered crumbs  over  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking-dish,  then  put 
in  a  layer  of  cold  cooked  chicken,  cut  into  small  dice.  Cook  a  tea- 
spoon of  chopped  onion  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  till  slightly 
colored,  add  cup  of  milk,  and  when  hot  stir  in  5^  a  cup  of  dry 
bread  crumbs.  Add  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley  and  a  little 
salt  and  paprika.  Let  it  cool  until  lukewarm,  then  stir  in  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  and  pour  the  mixture  over  the  meat.  Cover, with  fine 
crumbs.  Place  in  the  oven  and  bake,  covered,  ^  an  hr.  Serve  in 
the  dish  in  which  is  it  baked. — ^Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 

CHICKEN  FRICASSEE.— Singe  and  cut  the  chicken  at  the 

joints,  in  pieces  for  serving.  Cover  with  boiling  water;  add  1 
heaping  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  14  a  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Simmer  1 
hr.,  or  until  tender,  reducing  the  water  to  nearly  a  pt.  Remove  all 
the  large  bones,  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  flour  and  brown 
in  hot  butter.  Put  the  chicken  on  a  hot  platter.  Strain  the  liquor 
and  remove  the  fat.  Add  to  the  liquor  1  cup  of  cream  or  milk, 
and  heat  it  again.  Melt  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan; 
add  2  tablespoons  flour;  when  well  mixed,  pour  on  slowly  the 
chicken  liquor.  Add  salt,  pepper,  ^  a  teaspoon  of  celery  salt,  1 
teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Beat  1  egg,  pour  the  sauce  slowly  on  the 
egg,  stir  well^  and  pour  over  the  chicken.  The  chicken  may  be 
browned  before  cooking  and  then  stewed  in  brown  gravy  made  by 
browning  the  butter  before  adding  the  flour.     Half  a  can  of  mush- 


272  FOWL 

rooms  may  be  added  to  improve  the  flavor,  letting  them  simmer  in 
the  sauce  5  minutes.  Arrange  the  body  of  the  chicken  in  the  cen- 
ter of  the  dish,  with  the  wings  at  the  top,  the  thighs  below,  and  the 
ends  of  the  drumsticks  crossed  at  the  tail.  If  the  chicken  be  not 
fried,  it  is  simply  chicken  stew,  and  du'mplings  may  be  added.  And 
if  put  into  a  deep  dis'h  with  a  rich  gravy,  miade  as  for  fricasee,  but 
without  the  c^g,  and  covered  with  a  rich  crust  of  pastry  and  baked, 
it  is  chicken  pie. — Mrs.  J.  J.  Clason,,  940  Wells  St.,  Chicago,  111, 

FRICASEED  CHICKEN.— Carve  remains  of  cold  roast  fowl 
into  nice  joints;  make  gravy  by  stewing  legs  and  trimmings  with 
herbs,  onions,  seasoning  and  water,  then  strain,  put  in  fowl.  Warm 
and  thicken  with  flour;  stir  in  2  yolks  of  eggs,  add  these  to  the 
sauce;  let  it  heat,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil,  or  it  will  curdle. — Mrs. 
J.  Carey,  3248  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CANADIAN  FRIED  CHICKEN— Cut  chicken  up,  boil  1  hr., 
dip  each  piece  in  flour.  Put  into  a  frying-pan  of  hot  fat  and,  if  de- 
sired, slice  over  it  1  large  potato  and  1  large  onion,  season  wir.h 
pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  until  brown. — ^^^Mrs.  J.  G.  Gilbert,  24  E;, 
21st  St.,  Chicago,  111, 

CALIFORNIA  FRIED  CHICKEN.— 2  young  chickens,    1    lb. 

fat  salt  pork,  salt  and  pepper.  Clean  and  cut  chicken  in  pieces  for 
serving.  Plunge  in  cold  water  and  drain  well,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dredge  with  flour.  Cut  pork  in  pieces  and  fry  out;  cook 
chicken  in  fat  slowly,  until  well  browned  and  tender;  lift  chicken 
from  pan;  add  boiling  water  to  gravy,  and  serve. — Laura  Saswell, 
3734  S,  La  Salle  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

MARYLAND  FRIED  CHICKEN  WITH  CORN  DODG- 
ERS.— Clean  and  wipe  a  chicken  and  drop  the  pieces  into  boiling 
lard.  Fry  until  well-browned  and  thoroughly  cooked.  As  the 
pieces  are  cooked  remove  to  a  hot  platter.  When  all  done,  pour 
off  the  lard,  leaving  in  the  pan  the  gravy  of  the  chicken.  Return 
the  pan  to  the  fire  and  pour  in  1  cup  or  more  of  cream.  Dredge  a 
little  flour;  stir;  bring  it  to  a  boil  and  let  boil  3  minutes.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  over  the  chicken.  Sprinkle  the  top 
with  some  finely  chopped  parsley.  Have  ready  firm,  cold  corn- 
meal  mush.  Cut  it  into  slices,  dip  them  lightly  in  egg,  cover  with 
flour,  and  fry  in  butter.  Garnish  the  edge  of  the  platter  with  the 
corn  dodgers,  and  serve. — Mrs,  E,  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111, 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  273 

SOUTHERN  FRIED  CHICKEN.— Prepare  chicken,  cut  up, 
and  allow  to  stand  over  night  in  salt  and  water;  when  about  to 
cook,  dry,  sprinkle  with  pepper  iand  roll  thoroughly  in  sifted  flour. 
Take  equal  parts  of  lard  and  butter,  and  when  boiling  hot  in  the 
frying-pan,  drop  in  the  chicken,  turning  constantly.  Cook  fast,  at 
first,  then  slowly,  until  well  'browned.  For  gravy,  dredge  in  flour 
and  add  a  little  water,  allow  to  simmer.  Cut  a  bunch  of  parsley 
up  fine  and  stir  in,  at  last  add  1  pt.  of  cream. — Mrs.  J.  Caters,  3620 
Calumet  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VIRGINIA  FRIED  CHICKEN.— Joint  a  tender  chicken.  Dip 
each  piece  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  salted  cracker  dust  until 
thoroughly  coated.  Fry  ^  a  I'b.  of  bacon,  sliced  thin.  When 
crisp,  but  not  browned,  strain  off  the  fat  and  return  to  the  pan. 
Keep  the  bacon  hot  while  you  fry  the  chicken  in.  the  fat,  turning 
twice.  Should  there  not  be  fat  enougth,  ad'd  dripping,  or  cottolene, 
or  other  fat,  turning  twice.  When  done,  arrange  upon  a  hot  dish 
and  garnish  with  bacon. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Bruce,  712  La  Salle  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

LEFT-OVER  CHICKEN  FRIED.— Cut  cold  chicken  in 
pieces,  dip  in  paste  and  fry  in  hot  fat  or  oil.  Raw  chicken  may  be 
treated  in  the  same  way. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 

CHICKEN  FRITTERS.— ^Cook  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour 
in  1  tablespoon  of  hot  butter,  and  1  cup  of  chicken  stock,  added 
gradually.  Season  with  celery  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  half  of 
this  sauce  into  a  small,  shallow,  buttered  pan.  Chop  1  cup  of  cold 
chicken,  quite  fine,  season  and  spread  it  evenly  over  the  top  of  the 
sauce  after  it  has  thickened.  Cover  with  the  remainder  of  the 
sauce,  place  on  ice,  and  when  very  cold  and  hard  cut  into  rounds; 
or  squares.  Dip  them  quickly  into  batter,  and  fry  in  deep  hot  cot- 
tolene or  other  fat,  or  in  clarified  chicken  dripping.  These  should 
be  prepared  over  hight.  The  fritters  will  keep  their  shape  if  left 
a  long  time  before  the  paste  is  cut  up. — Mrs.  Allan  George,  Park 
Ridge,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Take  a  cold  chicken  or  turkey  and  remove 
all  the  meat  from  the  bones.  Dip  the  pieces  in  batter,  and  fry  in 
hot  fat  until  a  light  'brown.  Serve  hot.  Egg  and  bread  crumbs^ 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  batter,  if  desired. — Mrs.  Gorman,  3855 
Cottage  Grove  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


274  FOWL 

CHICKEN  GIBLETS  OR  MOCK.— When  poultry  is  in  full 
season  and  the  weather  is  cold,  save  the  g-iblets  of  half  a  dozen 
fowls,  boiling  them,  salting  slightly  to  keep  them,  and  setting  in  a 
cool  place.  When  you  have  enough,  chop  them,  rejecting  tough 
portions,  and  run  through  a  vegetable  press.  Work  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  melted  butter,  season  with  paprika,  salt  and  a  dash  of 
onion  juice.  Pack  down  in  small  jars,  pour  melted  butter  over  the 
top,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  If  you  will  boil  a  few  mush- 
rooms in  salted  water,  strain,  cut  them  into  coarse  dice  and  inter- 
sperse throughout  the  paste,  you  will  have  'a  veritable  imitation  of 
the  veritable  Strasburg  pates.  Calf's,  lamb's  or  pig's  liver  may  be 
substituted  for  fowls. — Mrs.  S.  A.  Liefbin,  3638  Cottage  Grove 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHICKEN  GOULASH.— Boil  the  fowl  in  the  usual  way. 
When  tender,  take  out,  remove  the  bones  and  put  them  back  into  the 
liquor;  cook  3^  hr.  land  again  remove  them.  Cut  the  chicken  in 
small  bits  or  cubes  (keeping  out  the  liver,  heart  and  gizzard).  Put 
the  chicken  in  the  liquor,  add  ^  can  of  tomatoes  or  6  w^hole  ones, 
salt,  pepper,  speck  of  sugar,  and  butter;  stew  until  done.  Pour 
over  1  doz.  slices  of  buttered  toast  in  a  soup  tureen.  Serve  hot. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CHICKEN  AND  HAM  MINCED  AND  BAKED.— Mix  to- 
gether 2  cups  of  minced  cold  lamfb,  chicken  or  veal,  1  cup  of 
chopped  ham  and  1  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs.  Moisten  thoroughly 
with  well-seasoned  soup-stock.  Turn  into  a  greased  bake-dish  and 
set  in  the  oven  until  heated  througli.  Break  upon  the  top  of  the 
mince,  'as  many  eggs  as  will  lie  side  by  side  on  it,  sprinkle  with, 
salt  and  pepper,  return  to  t'he  oven  and  bake  until  the  whites  are 
set  and  firm.  Send  to  table  in  a  baking-dish. — Mrs.  May  C.  May, 
Mayfair,  111. 

'  CHICKEN  HOLANDAISE.— JCook  UA  tablespoons  of  butter 
and  1  teaspoon  of  finely  chopped  onion  5  minutes,  add  2  table- 
spoons corn  starch;  and  gradually  1  cup  chicken  stock.  Add  1  tea- 
spoon lemon  juice,  Ys  cup  finely  chopped  celery,  Y-  teaspoon  salt, 
a  few  grains  of  paprika  and  1  cup  cold  cooked  chicken  cut  in  cubes; 
and  when  well  heated,  add  the  3rolk  of  1  egg,  slightly  beaten,  and 
cook  1  minute.  Serve  with  buttered  graham  toast. — Mrs.  Joseph 
King,  Kenilworth,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  275 

HUNGARIAN   CHICKEN   OR  PAPRIKA  HUHN.— Put    1 

heaping  tablespoon  of  dripping  in  a  tight  stew-pan,  add  2  good- 
sized  onions,  sliced  thin,  and  left  in  long  strips.  When  slightly 
colored,  add  Y^  teaspoon  of  Hungarian  pepper  or  paprika,  mix 
well  and  let  them  brown.  Then  add  the  chicken,  cut  in  pieces,  and 
salted  and  peppered.  Brown  well,  turning  often.  Then  add  stock 
or  water,  till  nearly  covered.  Stew  until  tender.  Just  before 
serving,  take  out  the  meat,  put  on  a  hot  platter,  and  add  a  full  cup 
or  more  of  thick,  sour  cream.  Just  let  it  scald,  but  not  boil,  pour 
over  the  chicken,  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  B.  Gross,  533  E.  43rd 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ITALIAN  CHICKEN.— Boil  a  whole  chicken  in  lightly  salted 
water  until  tender.  While  cooking,  dip  out  into  a  granite  kettle  a 
pt.  of  broth  and  put  with  it  1  sliced  onion,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,; 
salt  and  pepper,  and  Yt.  cup  of  macaroni,  broken  into  bits.  Cook 
till  water  has  nearly  boiled  away,  add  1  cup  of  milk  and  cook 
slowly,  till  the  macaroni  has  absorbed  the  milk.  Sprinkle  grated 
cheese  over  it.  Boil  the  chicken  broth  till  reduced  to  1  pt.;  thicken 
slightly.  Pour  the  macaroni  over  the  chicken  and  the  thickened 
sauce  over  the  whole;  on  the  top  sprinkle  a  little  grated  cheese. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN  ON  BREAD.— Boil  a  chicken  in  as 
little  water  as  possible,  till  the  meat  falls  from  bones,  chop  and 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  in  a  mould  alternate  layers  of 
meat  and  of  hard-boiled  ^z^s,  sliced  thin,  until  the  dish  is  full,  boil 
down  the  liquor  half,  while  warm  add  a  tablespoon  gelatine;  when 
dissolved  pour  into  the  mould  over  the  meat;  set  in  a  cool  place 
over  night  to  jelly. — Mrs.  D,  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Boil  a  chkken  the  day  before  it  is  to  be 
used.  When  the  liquor  is  cold,  skim  from  it  every  bit  of  fat. 
Soak  Y2  cup  of  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  cold  water  for  2  hrs.  Remove 
all  skin  from  the  chicken  and  cut  the  meat  into  neat  dice.  Cut  24 
French  mushrooms  into  halves.  Stone  and  halve  24  large  olives. 
Bring  to  a  boil  and  strain  a  pt.  of  the  chicken  liquor;  stir  into  it 
the  soaked  gelatine  and  set  aside  to  cool.  As  it  begins  to  thicken 
lay  ia  stratum  of  the  chicken  in  a  buttered  mould,  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  a  few  halved  olives  and  mushrooms,  pour  upon 
this  the  liquid  jelly.     Then  add  more  chickens,   mushrooms  and 


276  FOWL 

olives;  pour  upon  them  more  jelly,  and  proceed  until  the  mould  is 
full.  Set  in  a  cool  place  for  24  hrs.  before  using.  Lay  a  warm 
cloth  for  a  moment  about  the  mould,  then  invert  it  upon  a  chilled 
platter.  This  loaf  is  delicious  served  with  lettuce  and  mayon- 
naise.— Mrs.  Bessie  Hammond,  3200  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Cook  the  chicken  tender,  then  take  out 
chicken,  remove  all  the  meat  and  skin,  and  return  and  bring  to 
simmer  for  an  hr.  Take  yi  box  gelatin,  dissolve  in  water,  strain 
the  liquor  from  the  bones,  then  add  the  gelatin  to  the  liquor,  add 
1  small  onion,  when  boiling,  add  3  cloves;  when  done  put  layer  of 
chicken  and  hard-boiled  eggs,  put  some  of  liquor  in  a  mould  first, 
then  after  it  hardens,  layer  of  chicken,  then  eggs.  When  full, 
pour  remainder  of  liquor  over  cold.  W'hen  all  done,  put  in  cold 
place. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CHICKEN  AND  MACARONI.— Boil  J^  a  package  of  mac- 
aroni or  spaghetti  tender;  drain,  drop  into  cold  water  and  drain 
again.  Lay  on  a  biscuit  'board  and  cut  inrto  pieces  about  Y2  inch 
long.  Thicken  a  pan  of  chicken  stock  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour 
rubbed  into  1  of  butter.  Stir  into  this  a  cup  of  cold  boiled  or 
roast  chicken,  chopped  fine,  and  the  cold  macaroni.  Last  of  all, 
beat  in  slowly  a  whipped  G^gg,  remove  from  the  fire,  season  to 
taste,  turn  into  a  greased  pudding  dish,  sprinkle  crumbs  over  the 
top  and  bake  for  Yz  hr.  Serve  with  grated  cheese.  You  may  use 
veal  if  you  have  no  chicken. — Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

MINCED  CHICKEN  IN  GREEN  PEPPERS.— Mince  enough 
coW  chicken  to  make  a  cupful,  and  stir  into  it  1  tablespoon  of  minced 
ham  and  1  of  melted  butter.  Season  to  taste.  Cu^  the  stems  from 
green  peppers,  so  that  they  will  stand  upright.  Cut  off  the  tops  of 
the  peppers,  remove  the  seeds  and  membrane  and  fill  with  the 
minced  chicken  and  ham.  Stand  the  peppers  on  end  in  a  baking- 
dish,  pour  about  them  a  cup  of  chicken  stock  and  bake  ^  an  hr. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennett,  Bartlett,  111. 

CHICKEN  MINCED  ON  THE  HALF  SHELL.— Cut  fine 
sweet  peppers  in  half  lengthwise;  remove  core  and  seeds,  taking 
care  not  to  touch  the  sides  of  the  peppers,  and  soak  for  an  hr.  in 
cold  water,  slightly  salted.  Mince  fine  the  cold  meat  of  a  chicken, 
■and  add  to  it  one-fourth  as  much  fine  crumbs  as  you  have  chicken, 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  277 

moisten  with  gravy  or  sauce;  fill  the  peppers,  sprinkle  fine 'crumbs 
over  the  top,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  bake  J^  an  hr.,  then  brown. — 
Mrs.  Allan  George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

CHICKEN  WITH  MUSHROOMS.— Cover  Yz  pt.  of  mush- 
rooms, cut  into  small  bits,  with  hot  water  and  cook  5  minutes. 
Skim  them  out  and  lay  on  a  hot  dish.  Add  enough  milk  to  the 
liquid  to  make  a  cup.  Thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  rublDed 
smooth  with  1  of  butter.  Season  with  a  saltspoon  of  salt  and  ^2 
as  much  of  white  pepper.  Add  the  mushrooms  and  1  lb.  cold  roast 
chicken,  cut  into  dice  shape;  cook  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
Serve  on  a  hot  platter. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CHICKEN  OMELETTE.— Beat  4  eggs  very  light,  season 
with  salt  and  pour  into  a  greased  frying-pan.  Have  ready  a  cup 
of  minced  chicken  (heated),  and  a  pt.  of  hot  white  sauce  in  which 
a  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley  has  been  stirred.  When  the  ome- 
lette is  "set"  and  ready  to  be  removed  from  the  pan,  sprinkle  over 
it  the  minced  chicken,  fold  it  over  and  transfer  to  a  hot  platter. 
Pour  the  white  sauce  about  the  omelette. — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  May- 
fair,  111. 

CHICKEN  AND  OYSTERS  A  LA  METROPOLE.— Make  a 

sauce  of  ^  cup  butter,  ^  cup  of  flour,  Yz  teaspoon  salt,  V^  tea- 
spoon pepper,  2  cups  of  cream;  add  2  cups  cold  cooked  chicken 
and  1  pt.  oysters,  drained  and  cleaned;  cook,  until  oysters  are 
plump.  Serve  sprinkled  with  ^  cup  finely  chopped  celery. — Mrs. 
Frank  Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

CHICKEN  PANADA.— Rub  together  in  a  mortar  Y^  cup  of 
the  meat  from  the  breast  of  a  cold  chicken  with  ^  cup  of  stale' 
bread,  add  slowly  the  waiter  in  which  the  chicken  has  been  boiled, 
or  some  broth  entirely  free  from  fat.  Boil  for  a  few  minutes  and 
pass  the  whole  through  a  fine  sieve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka. 
111. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  cup  of  cold  roasted  or  boiled  chicken, 
pounded  to  a  paste.  Add  ^  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  and 
enough  boiling  chicken  liquor  to  make  it  a  thick  gruel.  Salt  to 
taste.  Boil  1  minute,  and  serve  hot.  When  the  chicken  has  been 
roasted,  boil  the  bones  to  obtain  the  liquor. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth, 
Wheeling,  111. 


278  FOWL 

PANNED  CHICKEN.— Singe,  remove  the  head  and  feet,  split 
down  the  back  and  remove  the  intestines.  Wipe  the  chicken  in- 
side and  out;  cross  the  legs  and  fold,  back  the  wings  and  with  a 
masher  flatten  the  breast  bone  with  a  potato  masher.  Place  these 
in  a  pan,  bone  side  down;  dust  lightly  with  pepper,  baste  them  all 
over  with  melted  butter,  add  a  J^  cup  of  stock  and  put  them  in  a 
very  hot  oven;  baste  again  with  melted  butter  in  about  15  min- 
utes; dust  them  with  salt  and  cook  30  minutes  longer;  if  the  oven 
is  hot,  cook  ^  of  an  hr.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  with 
them  plain  cream  sauce,  made  in  the  pan  in  which  they  were 
cooked.  If  for  supper,  serve  with  corn  bread,  waffles  or  milk  bis- 
cuits. For  luncheon,  peas  and  creami  sauce  only. — Mrs.  Wm. 
Hughes,  361  Institute  Place,  Chicago,  111. 

PATE  DE  FOI  GRAS.— Boil  livers  of  4  fowls  till  quite  done, 
drain  and  wipe  dry;  when  cold  rub  to  a  paste,  simmer  3  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter  and  1  chopped  onion  for  10  minutes, 
strain  through  thin  muslin,  turn  into  a  large  dish  and  mix  it  with 
salt,  pepper  and  1  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Work  all 
together;  butter  a  small  earthen  jar  and  press  the  mixture  down, 
interspersing  with  square  bits  of  boiled  gizzard  (from  4  fowls)  to 
represent  truffles;  cover  all  with  melted  butter  and  set  in  a  cold 
place. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

PICKLED  CHICKEN.— Boil  4  chickens  till  meat  falls  from 
bones.  Put  the  meat  in  a  stone  jar  and  pour  over  3  qts.  of  cold 
cider- vinegar  and  1^  pts.  water,  in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled. 
Add  spices  and  let  stand  2  days. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CHICKEN  PIE. — Line  a  deep  biscuit  pan  with  pastry  made 
as  follows:  1  part  ice  cold  water  and  1  part  of  thick,  sour  cream, 
with  1  teaspoon  soda  and  2  of  cream  of  tartar  to  1  qt.  of  flour; 
bone  the  chicken  and  distribute  white  and  dark  meat  evenly  over 
crust,  sprinkle  rolled  crackers  ^  inch  deep  in  depth  over  meat 
when  pan  is  half  filled.  Simmer  broth  to  a  good  strength,  thicken 
and  season  as  for  gravy;  pour  in  pan  enough  to  nearly  cover  sec- 
ond layer  of  meat;  leave  opening  in  top  of  crust  for  escape  of 
steam;  bake  40  minutes. — Mrs.  B.  Hubert,  3733  Elmwood  Ave., 
Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cut  the  chicken  in  pieces  and  boil  nearly 
tender,  make  a  rich  crust  with  an  egg  or  two  to  make  it  light. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         279 

Season  with  the  chicken  and  have  slices  of  ham  with  pepper  and 
salt,  mace,  nutmeg,  and  cayenne.  Put  them  in  layers;  first  the 
ham,  chicken  for  meat  balls  and  hard-boiled  eggs  in  layers.  Make 
a  gravy  of  knuckle  of  mutton  bones  seasoned  with  herbs,  onions, 
pepper,  etc.  Pour  it  over  the  contents  of  the  pie  and  cover  with 
paste.     Bake  1  hr.— Mrs.  B.  Jackson,  44  W.  35th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — To  make  a  medium-sized  pie  requires  1 
good-sized  chicken,  which  should  be  carefully  dressed,  then  boiled 
in  water  sufficient  to  cover  it,  until  thoroughly  done  and  add  a 
little  salt  and  a  very  little  pepper.  When  so  well  done  that  meat  will 
slip  from  bones,  take  bird  out  of  the  kettle,  remove  the, meat,  break 
it  into  pieces  as  large  as  the  two  fingers.  The  kettle  with  the 
gravy  has  meanwhile  been  boiling,  and  should  continue  to  boil  un- 
til nearly  all  the  water  is  absorbed.  When  water  is  boiled  out,  put 
broken  up  chicken  into  the  kettle  and  allow  it  to  cook,  watching  it 
very  closely  that  it  does  not  burn,  stirring  frequently.  In  this 
way  it  gets  the  delicious  browned  taste  that  add  so  much  to  this 
dish.  Prepare  a  crust  in  same  way  as  ordinary  puff  paste  is  made. 
Line  a  deep  pan  with  the  paste,  break  an  tgg  into  the  dish  and 
thoroughly  wet  the  inside  of  the  crust.  Place  the  chicken  in,  then 
put  a  top  crust  on,  leaving  a  hole  in  the  top  so  as  to  keep  moist 
by  adding  liquor  in  which  there  is  butter. — ^Mrs.  Martin  Logan, 
2841  South  Park  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  III.— Boil  the  chicken  until  tender,  having  first 
put  in  2  medium-sized  potatoes  and  2  large  onions,  sliced  very  thin, 
pepper  and  salt,  or  any  seasoning  one  may  wish;  thicken  gravy 
nicely  with  a  little  flour  and  water,  having  enough  to  cover  chick- 
en; now  pour  all  into  granite  pan,  until  crust  is  prepared.  Make  a 
pie  crust  J^  an  inch  thick,  and  not  too  rich.  This  pie  will  bake  in 
quick  oven  from  20  minutes  to  J^  hr. — Mrs.  A.  L.  Martin,  3321  S. 
State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHICKEN  AND  HAM  PIE — Cut  up  and  stew  the  chickens, 
as  in  last  recipe.  Have  ready  4  good-sized  slices  of  cold  boiled 
corned  ham,  cut  into  strips.  Put  a  layer  of  ham  in  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  bake-dish,  season  with  chopped  mushrooms  and  parsley, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  layer  of  white  sauce,  the  base  of  which 
is  the  liquor  in  which  the  chickens  were  cooked.  Next  place  in 
the  dish  the  pieces  of  chicken  in  regular  order,  and  upon  these  the 


280  FOWL 

yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Repeat  the  seasoning  and  the  sauce. 
lay  a  few  strips  of  ham  over  the  top,  cover  with  a  good  paste,  wash 
the  pie  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  for  Ij^  hrs.  If  you  have  no 
mushrooms,  you  may  substitute  a  little  mushroojn  catsup. — Mrs. 
M.  Maston,  917  W.  Monroe  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

PILAFF. — Singe,  draw  and  disjoint  1  chicken  as  for  a  fricasee, 
put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  onion,  sliced,  stir 
until  the  onion  is  thoroughly  cooked,  'but  not  browned,  put  in  the 
chicken,  stir  for  a  moment,  without  browning,  then  cover  with 
boiling  water,  cover  the  saucepan  and  bring  to  boiling  point;  push 
to  the  back  part  of  the  stove  where  it  will  just  simmer  for  ^  of 
an  hr.  Wash  J^  pt.  rice  and  let  it  stand  in  water  an  hr.;  drain, 
and  sprinkle  it  carefully  over  the  top  of  the  chicken;  add  the  salt 
and  pepper;  cover  the  kettle  and  cook  for  30  minutes  longer:  the 
rice  will  now  have  absorbed  every  particle  of  water  in  the  sauce- 
pan, so  be  very  careful  that  it  does  not  scorch.  Rub  together  2 
tablespoons  of  ibutter  and  2  of  flour;  add  1  pt.  strained  tomato, 
stir  until  boiling.  Dish  the  chicken,  putting  the  rice  over  the  top; 
add  to  the  tomato  a  ^  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  saltspoon  of  pepper,  and 
strain  carefully  over  the  rice.  Sprinkle  over  it  a  little  chopped 
parsley  and  send  at  once  to  the  table.  This  dish  may  also  be  made 
from  cold,  left-over  chicken.  It  is  exceedingly  good  made  from 
mutton. — Cora  D.  Masters,  124  E.  41st  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Warm  1  pt.  of  canned  chicken,  or  cold  roast 
or  boiled  chicken,  in  1  pt.  of  water  till  the  meat  is  very  tendier. 
Skim  out  the  meat,  and  add  to  the  liquor  1  pt.  of  strained  tomatoes. 
Season  highlj^  with  salt,  pepper,  finely  chopped  onion^  and  curry  or 
chutney  sauce.  When  boiling,  add  1  cup  of  well-washed  rice,  and 
cook  20  minutes,  or  till  the  rice  is  soft.  Add  the  pieces  of  chicken 
and  H  a  cup  of  butter  or  cream.  When  hot,  turn  out  on  a  platter, 
and  garnish  w^ith  triangles  of  toast. — Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S. 
8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  III, 

PRESSED  CHICKEN.— Boil  a  fowl  in  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible, till  the  bones  slip  out  and  the  gristly  portions  are  soft.  Re- 
move the  skin,  pick  the  meat  apart,  and  mix  the  dark  and  white 
meats.  Remove  the  fat  and  season  the  liquor  highh'  with  salt  and 
pepper;  also  with  celery  salt  and  lemon  juice.  Boil  down  to  1  cup 
and  mix  with  the  meat.     Butter  a  mould  and  decorate  the  bottom 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  281 

and  sides  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs;  also  -with  thin  slices  of 
tongue  or  ham,  cut  into  round  or  fancy  shapes.  Pack  the  meat  in, 
and  set  away  to  cool,  with  a  weight  on  the  meat.  When  ready  to 
serve,  dip  the  mould  in  warm  water,  and  turn  out  carefully.  Gar- 
nish w^ith  parsley,  strips  of  lettuce  or  celery  leaves,  and  radishes  or 
beets. — Mary  E.  Stark,  3753  Armour  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Stew  a  chicken  in  just  enough  water  to  cov- 
er it  and  until  the  meat  drops  easily  from  the  bones.  Add  a  little 
salt  and  pepper.  Remove  bones  and  gristle,  chop  the  meat;  put  it 
back  into  the  broth  and  heat  again.  Line  a  dish  with  slices  of 
hard-boiled  eg^;  pour  chicken  into  it  and  let  set.  When  it  may  be 
cut  in  even  slices. — Mrs.  W.  Sportley,  3638  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago, 
111. 

POTATOES  WITH  CHICKEN— Use  2  cups  hot  mashed  po- 
tatoes, a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  lYz  cups  hot  milk,  beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  a  little  minced  cel- 
ery. Beat  till  all  are  thoroughly  mixed,  then  fold  in  the  'beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Pour  in  a  border  mould,  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  fill  center  with  stewed  chicken. — Mrs. 
John  H.  Snyder,  1337  W.  Madison  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

POTTED  CHICKEN.— To  every  lb.  of  cold  roast  or  boiled 
chicken  allow  %  lb.  of  butter,  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.  1  teaspoon 
of  pounded  mace,  ^  of  a  small  nutmeg.  Cut  in  small  pieces,  pound 
together  till  reduced  to  a  small  paste.  Pack  closely  in  jelly  glasses 
and  cover  with  clarified  butter.  A  few  slices  of  ham  may  be 
added.— Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

RAGOUT  OF  CHICKEN.— Singe,  draw  and  cut  the  chicken 
into  joints,  put  rough  pieces  and  dark  meat  in  the  bottom  of  the 
saucepan,  the  white  meat  on  top,  flesh  side  down.  Pour  over  1  qt. 
of  boiling  water,  cover  the  saucepan,  bring  to  boiling  point,  then 
push  to  the  back  part  of  stove,  where  it  will  simmer,  for  30  min- 
utes. Add  2  bunc'hes  of  celery,  cut  into  pieces  a  ^  inc'h  long,  a  level 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  saltspoon  of  pepper:  cover  and  simmer  Y^  of 
an  hr.  When  the  meat  is  tender,  dish  carefully,  putting  the  rough 
pieces  underneath,  and  cover  over  the  celery.  Rub  together  2  ta- 
blespoons of  butter  and  2  of  flour.  Add  the  liquor  in  which  the 
chicken  was  cooked,  and  stir  until  boiling,  take  from  the  fire,  add 


382  FOWL 

the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  strain  this  over  the  celery,  garnish  with 
baked  dumplings,  and  send  at  once  to  the  table.  Serve  with  crab- 
apple  or  quince  jelly.  Plain  boiled  rice  may  be  served  instead  of 
dumplings. — Mrs.  S.  Smith,  4543  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ROASTED  BONED  CHICKEN.— Spread  chicken  on  board, 
skin  side  down,  turn  the  flesh  of  legs  and  wings  right  side  out  >and' 
stuff  with  forcemeat  into  shape.  Equalize  the  meat  as  well  as  pos- 
sible, placing  against  the  little  strip  of  white  meat  only  the  dark 
meat,  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  roll  of  the  iorcemeat 
and  lay  it  in  the  chicken,  draw  the  skins  up  and  sew  it  together  se- 
curely. Turn  it  over,  place  legs  and  wings  into  the  position  of  a 
trussed  fowl.  Press  the  'body  into  natural  sh^pe,  and  tie  securely. 
Cover  with  slices  of  salt  pork,  and  roast,  allowing  20  minutes  to  the 
pound;  baste  frequently.  Remove  pork  last  15  minutes,  dredge  with 
flour,  let  brown,  serve  with  giblet  or  tonuato  sauce. — Mrs.  J.  Smith, 
65  E.  46th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

STEAM  ROAST  CHICKEN.— This  is  a  recipe  by  a  former 
chef  of  royalty  in  Austria.  Roast  a  chicken  in  a  covered  roasting- 
pan  or  in  a  Dutch  oven  from  J^  to  3  hrs.,  according  to  size  of 
chicken,  basting  with  bouillon. — Mrs.  N.  Siegel,  4941  Vincennes 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

*  A  NICE  WAY  TO  ROAST  CHICKEN.— Take  a  young 
chicken  and  bone,  as  for  stewing,  and  roll  each  piece  in  flour  till 
your  pan  is  full,  or  till  you  have  plenty,  then  sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  a  liberal  sprinkling  of  butter,  and  set  in  the  oven  and 
roast  till  done,  or  about  1  hr. — ^Mrs.  M.  Sims,  3717  S.  La  Salle  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

CLARET  OR  BORDELAISE  SAUCE  FOR  ROAST 
CHICKEN. — Make  a  brown  sauce  'by  substituting  browned  flour  for 
white  and  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  kitchen  bouquet.  Season  with 
onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper,  boil  1  minute,  pour  in  a  wineglass  of 
claret,  heat  for  Yz  a  minute  more,  and  serve.  Serve  with  any  kind 
of  roast  meats  and  poultry. — Mrs.  Amelia  Scott,  2972  Armour  Ave., 
Chicago,  III. 

CHICKEN  SAUTE.— Take  a  young,  tender  chicken,  cut  it  up 
in  pieces.  Put  in  a  saucepan  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  t%% 
and  y^  lb.  of  pork,  cut  into  dice.     Set  it  on  a  good  fire,  and  when 


GOOR  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         283 

the  butter  be-gins  to  (brown  put  in  the  chicken.  Let  it  brown  well; 
then  sprinkle  a  tiablespoon  of  flour  over  it;  stir  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Add  Yi  cup  of  white  wine  and  Yi  cup  of  water.  Stir  again,  add  pep- 
per, 1  clove  of  garlic,  2  shallots,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  tied  with  1 
bay  leaf  and  about  a  dozen  small,  white  onions.  Cover  and  cook 
for  40  minutes.  When  cooked,  serve  with  the  meat  on  the  center 
of  the  dish,  the  onions  around  it,  and  the  gravy  strained  over; 
sprinkle  chopped  parsley  on  the  top.  Mushrooms  can  also  be 
added,  allowing  them  25  minutes  to  cook. — Mrs.  Agnes  Scales, 
3524  S.  La  Salle  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SCALLOPED  CHICKEN.— Take  equal  parts  of  cold  chicken, 
boiled  rice,  or  macaroni  and  tomato  sauce.  Put  in  layers  in  a.  shal- 
low dish,  and  cover  with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  till  brown.  Cold 
roast  turkey,  using  stuffing  and  gravy,  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 
way. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Jefferson,  505  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CHICKEN  SCALLOPS.— Chop  the  meat  fine  and  to  2  cups 
add  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs,  "Y  a  cup 
of  boiling  water,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  these  all  into  a 
saucepan  and  stir  while  heating.  Lastly,  put  in  2  raw  eggs,  beaten 
light,  and  take  from  the  fire.  Fill  baking-cups  two-thirds  full  of  the 
mixture,  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  bake  about  25  minutes. 
Turn  out  carefully  into  a  heated  dish,  and  pour  white  sauce  around 
them. — Mrs.  Chris.  Worthington,  Des  Plaines,  111.    ' 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN.— Clean  a  chicken,  too  old  for 
broiling;  split  down  the  back,  and  put  in  breast  upwards  in  a  shal- 
low pan;  pour  over  it  1  cup  of  boiling  water  and  cover  tightly  to 
keep  in  the  steam.  Cook  Yz  ..an  hr.;  then  baste  with  the  hot  water, 
rub  all  over  with  softened  butter,  and  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Baste  often,  keep  closely  covered,  and  cook  till  tender.  It  should 
be  yellow,  not  dark  brown.  Thicken  the  gravy;  add  chopped  pars- 
ley, salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  it  over  the  chicken. — Mrs.  Harry 
Silbiger,  2638  Cottage  Grove  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHICKEN  STEW  WITH  BISCUIT.— Boil  the  chicken  same 
as  for  fricasee,  then  take  it  out.  Put  it  in  a  frying-pan  with  butter 
and  let  brown  on  both  sides,  pour  in  the  gravy  left  in  the  kettle. 
Let  come  to  a  boil,  thicken.  Break  .open  some  cream  biscuits,  but- 
ter each  half  End  pour  over  the  gravy. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnet- 
ka,  III. 


284  FOWL 

STEWED  CHICKEN  WITH  SALT  POI^K.— Prepare  chick- 
en the  same  as  for  fried  chicken,  cut  in  pieces  and  put  on  the  fire 
in  a  kettle  with  cold  water  enough  to  cover  well;  add  a  little  salt 
pork  and  'boil  until  tender.  Break  open  some  baking-powder  bis- 
cuits, place  on  a  platter;  on  these  put  the  chicken;  thicken  the 
gravy  with  flour,  add  seasoning  and  cream;  pour  this  over  the 
chicken  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

STEWED  CHICKEN.— Place  a  layer  of  bacon  in  bottom  .,i 
stew-kettle,  then  a  layer  of  chicken,  season  and  sprinkle  a  little 
flour,  and  repeat.  Fill  kettle  with  water  until  within  Yz  inch  of  top 
of  meat,  cover  tightly  and  cook  about  2  hrs.;  do  not  stir, -only  turn. 
round  in  the  pot.  Skim  off  the  grease,  add  butter  and  a  little  flour 
for  gravy. — ^Mrs.  B.  Siberman,  4801  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW.— Disjoint  1  fowl,  cut  3  or  4  oz.  o?  ham 
in  pieces  and  saute  them  in  the  3  tablespoons  of  hot  lard  to  a 
golden  brown;  remove  the  chicken  to  a  stew-pan  (iron  must  not  be 
used)  and  saute,  1  sliced  onion  and  1  qt.  of  green  okrapods. 
cut  in  pieces;  then  add  ^  cup  of  flour  and,  when  well  blended  with 
the  fat,  of  which  may  be  needed  more,  add  gradually  a  qt.  of  water; 
when  'boiling  add  to  the  chicken  with  another  qr.  of  water,  3  or  4 
tomatoes,  skins  removed,  Yz  small  pod  of  red  pepper,  y^  of  a  bay 
leaf,  2  sprigs  of  thyme,  and  a  little  salt;  let  simmer,  covered,  very 
slowly,  until  the  fowl  is  cooked,  adding  more  water,  if  needed,  also 
salt.  In  serving,  add  a  spoon  of  boiled  rice  to  each  plate. — Mrs.  C, 
E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 2  squirrels,  well  skinned  and  cleaned,  or  2 
rmall  chickens;  put  into  a  large  kettle  with  2  qts.  of  cold  water., 
.'\dd  1  slice  of  bacon,  2  qts.  oi  tomatoes,  6  large  potatoe.>,  sliced 
cliir,  1  qt.  of  Lima  beans,  2  lar<fe  onions,  sliced,  1  tablespoon  of 
salt,  and  J/^  a  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Let  it  stew  until  tender.  Add 
more  water  as  it  boils  away.  Add  6  ears  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob, 
cook  20  minutes  longer,  being  very  qareful  not  to  let  it  burn. — Mrs. 
C  E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

CREOLE  STEW.— Disjoint  the  chicken  after  it  has  been 
singed  and  drawn;  put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  add 
3  good-sized  onions  cut  into  thin  slices,  stir  until  the  onion  is 
cooked,  without  browning;  now  put  in  the  chicken,  the  rougher 
pieces  down,  the  w^hite  meat  on  top;  add  a  clove  oi  garlic,  mashed, 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  285 

J^  pt.  of  finely  chopped  celery  and  sufficient  strained  tomato  to 
just  cover  the  chicken,  about  1  qt.;  bring  to  boiling  point  and  sim- 
mer carefully  for  1  hr.;  this  must  scarcely  boil;  add  a  level  teai- 
spoon  of  salt,  and  a  V^  teaspoon  of  pepper,  or  1  sweet  red  pepper, 
chopped  fine;  novir  add  1  pt.  of  fresh  corn,  cut  from  the  cob,  or  1 
can  of  corn;  let  this  heat  thoroughly;  dish  the  chicken  in  the  mid- 
dle of  a  large  platter,  put  over  the  corn  and  sauce.  Cover  this 
with  finely  chopped  parsley  or  chives,  and  send  at  once  to  the  table. 
Serve  with  it  plain  boiled  rice  and  baked  bananas. — Mrs.  Charles  L. 
Rosser,  26  S.  Aberdeen  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

MOCK  OR  VARIATION  TERRAPIN.— Add  to  1  cup  white 
sauce,  XVz  cups  cold  chicken  or  veal,  cut  in  dice,  the  yolks  and 
whites  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  finely  chopped,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  and 
a  few  grains  of  cayenne;  cook  2  minutes,  then  add  3  tablespoons  of 
sherry  wine. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Bensen,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Boil  1  cup  of  milk;  thicken  with  butter  size 
of  an  ^^%  and  a  little  flour;  add  1  cold  chicken  and  4  hard-^boiled 
eggs,  chopped  fine.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Let  boil  up,  and 
serve  hot. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CHICKEN  OR  TURKEY  TIMBALES.— Boil  8  eggs  very 
hard,  and  leave  them  in  cold  water  for  2  or  more  hrs.  Take  the 
shells  ofif,  cut  in  half,  and  extract  the  yolks.  Chop  the  whites,  be- 
fore running  them  through  a  vegetable  press.  Mix  with  them  4 
heaping  tablespoons  of  the  breast  of  chicken  or  turkey,  minced  as 
finely  as  possible;  season  with  ^  a  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  pap- 
rika, and  celery  salt  to  taste,  and  mix  to  a  white  paste,  with  the 
whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten  to  a  standing  froth.  Have  ready  enoug'h 
buttered  "nappies"  or  pate  pans  to  hold  the  mixture;  fill  them,  set 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Turn 
out  upon  a  hot  platter,  pour  a  good  white  sauce  about  the  base, 
heap  a  teaspoon  of  the  powdered  yolks  on  the  top  of  each,  and 
serve.  The  yolks  are  prepared  by  running  through  a  colander,  or 
better  still,  a  vegetable  press. — Mrs.  Frank  Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  CHICKEN.— Select  large, 
firm  tomatoes,  cut  ofT  the  tops  and  scoop  out  the  inside  pulp.  Do 
not  peel.  Chop  fine  a  cup  of  cald  meat,  it  may  be  fowl,  tongue  or 
ham,  or  even  lamb,  mutton  or  beef,  if  the  latter  are  well  seasoned. 


286  FOWL 

With  the  meat  put  ^  a  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  a  tablespoon  of 
butter,  and  salt,  pepper,  parsley  and  onion  juice.  The  quantity  of 
these  to  be  used  must  be  determined  by  the  amount  of  seasoning 
there  is  already  in  the  meat.  After  sprinkling  the  insides  of  the 
tomato  shells  with  a  very  little  salt  and  pepjper,  fill  them  with  the 
mixture  of  meat,  crumbs,  etc.  If  this  seems  too  dry,  it  may  be 
moistened  with  a  small  quantity  of  gravy  or  soup  stock,  or  even 
with  milk  or  cream.  Arrange  the  tomatoes  in  a  pudding  dish,  re- 
place the  tops,  lay  a  cover  over  them,  and  bake  half  an  hr.  Serve  in 
the  dish  in  which  they  were  cooked. — Mrs.  Abner  Grant,  Sher- 
man, III. 

DUCK 

BRAISED  DUCKS.— Young  ducks  are' essential  for  this  pur- 
pose. Lay  3  slices  of  fat  corned  ham  upon  the  grating  of  your 
roaster,  and  upon  them  a  minced  onion,  a  stalk  of  celery;  chop  a 
slice  of  carrot  and  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley.  Clean  and 
truss,  but  do  not  stuff  the  ducks;  lay  them  upon  the  prepared  "bed" 
and  pour  la  cupful  of  boiling  water  over  them.  Cover  the  pan  and 
let  them  cook,  closely  covered,  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  2  hrs. 
Take  up  the  ducks,  strain  the  liquor  from  the  pan,  and  let  it  cool 
enough  to  remove  all  the  fat.  Then  put  it  into  a  saucepan  and  let 
it  boil.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  thicken  it  slightly  with 
browned  flour.  Return  the  fowls  to  the  sauce  till  hot  again,  then 
serve  with  the  sauce  poured  over  them. — Mrs.  Frank  Mullins, 
Franklin,  111. 

DUCKS. — When  roasted,  use  dressing  as  for  turkey,  with  the 
addition  of  a  few  slices  of  onion;  many  cooks  lay  over  the  game 
slices  of  onions,  which  take  away  the  fish  flavor,  removing  the  onion 
before  serving.  Make  a  sauce  with  the  drippng  in  the  pan  in  which 
the  game  is  roasted,  and  to  which  are  put  the  chopped  giblets, 
which  are  previously  well  cooked;  thicken  the  gravy  with  brown 
flour,  moistened  with  water.  Serve  with  currant  jelly. — Mrs,  L.  C. 
Crawford,  1003  S.  3Td  Ave.,  Maywood,  III. 

DUCK  AND  GREEN  PEAS.--Cut  the  rind  from  ^  lb.  of 
lean  bacon.  Divide  it  into  pieces  2  inches  square  and  fry  a  light 
brown  with  butter.  Dredge  in  a  little  flour,  and  stir  3  minutes. 
Add  a  pint  of  broth,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  a  bunch  of  sweet 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         287 

herbs,  salt  and  pepper.  The  duck  should  be  previously  fried  or 
roasted  for  10  minutes,  and  put  into  the  stewpan  with  the  gravy 
and  stewed  slowly  for  1J4  hrs.,  or  until  tender.  Stew  a  qt.  of  peas- 
with  butter  in  another  pan.  Place  the  ducks  and  peas  on  a  hot 
dish,  pour  over  them  the  gravy,  strained  and  thickened,  and  serve 
hot.— Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

COLD  DUCK  STEWED  WITH  GREEN  PEAS.— Cut  a  cold 
roast  duck  into  even  sized  pieces,  season  with  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt,  add  the  finely  minced  peel  of  J^  a  lemon.  Put  into 
a  stewpan  and  pour  over  ^  pt.  of  good  gravy,  and  place  it  over  a 
clear  fire  to  become  very  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Boil  a  qt.  of 
green  peas,  drain,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  pile 
them  in  the  center  of  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  pieces  of  duck  around 
them,  and  serve. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S,  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 

"CREOLE"  SALAMI  OF  DUCK.— Melt  in  a  saucepan  2  ta- 
blespoons of  butter,  and  stir  into  this  a  J^  tablespoon  each  of 
chopped  ham,  onion,  celery,  sweet  pepper  and  parsley,  with  a  table- 
spoon of  flour,  a  J4  <5f  a.  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  Yt.  teaspoon  of  pap- 
rika,. Stir  for  3  minutes,  then  add  a  cup  of  consomme,  2  cloves 
and  a  blade  of  mace.  Simer  for  an  hr.;  strain,  and  add  to  it  2  cups 
of  cold  duck,  cut  into  neat  pieces  an  inch  long.  Boil  1  minute  to 
heat  the  meat  thoroughly,  and  serve.  Garnish  with  sippets  of 
fried  bread. — Mrs.  L.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywoou,  111. 

ROAST  MALLARD  OR  TEAL  DUCK.— Singe,  draw  and 
remove  all  the  tiny  pin  feathers.  Then  wash  very  quickly,  both 
inside  and  out,  with  cool  water,  and  wipe  perfectly  dry.  For  the 
stuffing  take  equal  parts  of  chopped  tart  apples,  and  sifted  bread 
crumbs,  which  have  been  browned  in  the  oven,^and  boiled  onions. 
Season  highly  with  salt,  pepp&r,  and  a  little  sage,  and  moisten  with 
2  or  3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter.  Stuff  the  ducks,  sew  and 
truss.  Put  on  a  rack  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  pork  and  put  inio 
a  very  hot  oven.  In  about  5  minutes  the  ducks  will  be  light  brown. 
Now  reduce  the  heat  and  pour  into  the  pan  a  very  little  water. 
The  dripping  fat  will  burn  unless  a  little  hot  water  is  added.  Baste 
every  4  or  5  minutes.  In  40  minutes  the  ducks  will  be  sufficiently 
cooked,  if  liked  a  trifle  rare,  but  many  prefer  a  longer  cooking. 
When  nearly  done,  the  pork  must  be  removed  and  the  birds  evenly 


288  FOWL 

browned  on  all  sides.     Serve  with  olive  sauce. — Mrs.  Joseph  King, 
Kenilworth,  111. 

PEANUT  STUFFING  FOR  DUCKS.— Prepare  the  ducks  for 
roasting  and  make  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs  seasoned  with  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt.  Chop  a  cup  of  roasted  and  shelled  peanuts 
to  a  powder  and  rub  them  into  the  bread  crumbs.  Stuff  the  ducks 
with  this  mixture  and  roast,  basting  frequently. — Mrs.  Chris. 
Worthington,   Des   Plaines,   111. 

GOOSE 

DEVILED  GOOSE.— Clean  the  goose  and  wiping  it  well  with 
a  damp  cloth,  plunge  it  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  boil 
moderately  for  1  hr.  Take  it  from  the  kettle,  drain  well,  .ind  wipe 
it  dry.  Fill  the  body  and  neck  with  potato  stuffing,  truss  and  sew 
up  the  same  as  directed  for  roast  turkey,  and  roast  in  a  very  hot 
oven,  allowing  15  minutes  to  1  lb.  Pour  over  it  the  following  mix- 
ture, and  baste  frequently:  4  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  1  tablespoon 
of  pepper,  2  tablespoons  of  made  mustard.  Boil  the  giblets  and 
make  the  gravy  as  directed  in  sauces  for  fish,  meats,  poultry,  etc. 
An  old  goose  should,  be  boiled  2  hrs.,  instead  of  1  hr. — Mrs.  Rob- 
ert Randall,  908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

JELLIED  GOOSE  (German  Style).— Put  1  whole  goose  (not 
too  fat),  head,  neck,  heart,  lungs,  gizz.ard  and  feet  iscald  and  skin 
the  feet),  together  with  2  well-cleaned  disjointed  calf's  feet,  in  a 
granite  pot,  cover  with  water  and  boil,  skimming  carefully  until  it 
looks  clear,  add  2  heaping  teaspoons  each  of  white  peppercorns  and 
allspice,  several  Large  onions,  4  bay  leaves,  1  carrot,  1  parsley  root, 
part  of  a  celery  root,  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  salt,  aad  enough 
white-wine  vinegar  to  give  it  a  sour  taste,  boil  until  the  meat  is 
well  done,  remove  the  fat,  as  it  rises,  and  strain,  boiling  hot, 
through  a  white  flannel  bag  to  cool.  After  the  meat  has  cooled 
separate  it  from  the  breast  bone,  cut  it  in  narrow,  bias  strips,  cut 
the  legs  and  the  rest  of  the  goose  joints,  add  the  head,  neck,  etc., 
put  all  together  in  a  porcelain  dish,  well  oiled  with  almond  oil  ct 
greased  with  lard.  Free  the  jelly  of  every  particle  of  fat,  remove 
all  that  is  clear,  melt  and  pour  gradually  over  the  meat.  Do  not 
turn  it  out  until  ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  VVinnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  289 

VARIATION  I. — Stuff  the  roast  in  same  manner  as  ducks; 
many  cooks  cover  poultry  with  a  paste  of  flour  and  water  while 
baking,  removing  it  before  being  served. — Mrs.  Allan  George, 
Park  Ridge,  111. 

ROAST  GOOSE  WITH  POTATO   STUFFING.— Singe  the 

goose,  wash  it  carefully  in  hot  water  and  wipe  it  dry  before  draw- 
ing. Then  fill  it  with  potato  stuffing  and  stitch  up  the  openings 
and  truss  or  tie  the  goose  into  shape.  If  it  is  not  fat,  lay  thin 
slices  of  pork  upon  the  breast  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  45  min- 
utes; but  if  the  goose  has  considerable  fat,  omit  the  pork.  Remove 
the  goose  from  the  oven,  pour  out  all  the  fat,  sprinkle  the  bird  all 
over  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  it  with  flour,  and  bake  again. 
When  the  flour  is  of  an  attractive  color,  pour  1  t&aspoon  of  hot 
water  into  the  pan,  and  baste  the  goose  often,  dredging  it  each 
time  with  a  slight  sifting  of  flour  to  absorb  the  fat.  A  small  goose 
should  'bake  at  least  2  hrs.,  if  frequently  basted;  and  a  large  one 
will  require  more  time  in  proportion.  Reinove  the  goose  from  the 
pan,  drain  off  most  of  the  fat,  add  J^  pt.  of  water,  and  thicken,  if 
necessary,  with  'browned  flour;  salt  to  taste.  Garnish  the  goose 
with  parsley  and  serve  the  gnavy  in  a  boat.  Apple  sauce  should 
always  be  served  with  roast  goose. — Mrs.  Roger  Rawlings,  Chi- 
cago Heights,  111. 

SALAMI  OF  GOOSE. — Cut  the  remains  of  a  roast  goose  into 
small  pieces,  about  an'  inch  long  and  half  as  wide.  Have  ready  a 
gravy  made  by  boiling  down  the  bones  and  toughest  scraps  until 
you  have  a  cup  of  strong  stock.  Add  to  this  a  carrot,  a  young- 
turnip,  a  tomato,  an  apple  and  a  stalk  of  celery,  all  cut  into' 
dice,  and  the  vegetables  parboiled  for  10  minutes.  Simmer  in  the 
gravy  until  you  can  run  them  through  your  vegetable  press.  Put 
in  the  meat  and  cook  slowly,  until  tender.  Thicken  with  browned 
flour. — Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

STUFFING  FOR  GOOSE  OR  TAME  DUCK— Mash  pota- 
toes finely,  season  highly  with  minced  onion,  sage,  salt  and  pepper. 
Never  fill  a  fowl  more  than  %.  Apples  miay  be  substituted  for  the 
potatoes. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111, 

GOSLING. — May  be  roasted  in  the  same  way  as  geese,  allow- 
ing, however,  but  15  minutes  to  the  lb.  for  cooking. — Mrs.  Allan 
George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 


290  FOWL 

TURKEY 

TO  BOIL  A  TURKEY.— Make  a  stuffing  for  the  craw  of 
chopped  bread,  and  Gutter,  cream,  oysters  and  the  yolks  of  eggs, 
sew  it  in  and  dredge  flour  over  the  turkey,  and  put  it  to  boil  in 
cold  water,  with  a  spoon  of  salt  and  enough  water  to  cover  them 
well;  let  it  simmer  for  2j^  hrs.,  or,  if  small,  less  time;  skim  it  while 
boiling.  It  looks  nicer  if  wrapped  in  a  cloth  dredged  with  flour. 
Serve  it  with  drawn  butter,  in  which  put  some  oysters. — Mrs.  C.  E. 
Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

FILLET  OF  TURKEY  WITH  RICE.— Skin  the  breast  of  a 
plump  turkey,  and  slice  away  the  breast.  Use  a  sharp  knife,  and 
hold  it  almost  horizontal  while  you  work.  The  slices  should  be 
nearly  y^  an  inch  thick,  and  as  nearly  uniform  in  size  as  possible. 
Dip  in  beaten  ^%^,  then  in  salted  and  peppered  cracker  crumbs; 
again  in  the  t^Zt  and  once  more  in  the  crumbs.  Set  on  ice,  while 
you  cook  the  rice.  Put  1  cup  of  clear  chicken  or  turkey  stock  into 
a  saucepan;  add  a  cup  of  rice,  Yz  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  and  the 
same  of  salt,  and  simmer  slowly  until  the  liquid  is  absorbed.  When 
the  rice  is  tender,  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  ot 
grated  cheese,  and  season  to  taste.  Cover,  and  let  it  stand  at  the 
side  of  the  fire  until  the  fillets  are  ready.  Heat  5  or  6  spoons  of 
pure  salad  oil  slowly  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  boils,  cook  the 
fillets  in  it  to  a  nice  brown.  Mound  the  savoury  rice  in  the  center 
of  a  hot  dish,  and  lay  the  fillets  about  it. — Mrs.  L.  C.  Crawford, 
1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111.  . 

TURKEY  HASH.— Free  from  skin,  fat  and  bone  enough  cold 
turkey  to  make  3  pts.,  and  cut  into  small  cubes.  Season  with  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  54  teaspoon  of  pepper;  melt  in  a  frying-pan  1 
tablespoon  of  butter,  and  when  hot,  but  not  browned,  add  1  table- 
spoon of  sifted  flour.  Stir  until  smooth  and  frothy,  add  gradually 
1  pt.  of  milk,  stirring  all  the  time;  season  to  taste,  as  it  comes  to  a 
boil  add  the  seasoned  turkey,  cook  gently  10  minutes,  then  add  1 
teaspoon  of  lemon  juice  and  pour  on  hot  toast. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry, 
Glencoe,  111. 

TURKEY  RECHAUFFE.— With  pastry-bag  and  rose-tube 
fashion  potato  roses  around  the  inside  of  a  dish  that  will  stand  the 
heat  of  the  oven.     Use  hot  potato,  either  duchess  or  plain  mashed. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         291 

Brush  over  the  potato  with  an  egg,  beaten  with  a  spoon  of  milk, 
add  the  rest  of  the  egg  to  the  sauce  in  which  cold  turkey,  chopped 
or  cut  in  cubes,  is  to  be  re-heated.  Have  the  sauce  quite  consistent, 
to  avoid  running  out  between  the  "roses."  To  secure  this  cut  down 
the  quantity  of  liquid  for  the  sauce,  or  use  more  flour.  Pour  the 
turkey  mixture  into  the  center  of  the  dish,  cover  the  top  with 
cracker  crumbs,  stirred  into  melted  butter,  and  set  the  dish  in  the 
oven  to  brown  the  crumbs.  The  rechauffe  may  be  brown  or  white. 
— Mrs.  Roger  Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

TURKEY  AND  SAUSAGE  PUDDING.— Use  left-over  tur- 
key. Into  a  buttered  bake-dish,  put  a  layer  of  turkey,  cut — not 
chopped — into  l4  inch  lengths.  Cover  with  minced,  cooked  sau- 
sage meat,  and  this  with  3  or  4  olives  chopped  fine.  Proceed  in 
this  way  until  the  dish  is  ready  for  the  crust.  Pour  in  a  cup  of  rich 
gravy,  made  of  bones  (and  stuffing;  cover  with  a  good  biscuit  dough, 
%  an  inch  thick;  cut  a  hole  in  the  middle  and  bake,  covered,  ^  of 
an  hr.,  and  then  brown. — Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

ROAST  TURKEY  OR  CHICKEN.— Pick  and  draw  the  fowl, 
wash  well  in  2  or  3  waters,  wipe  dry,  dredge  with  a  little  flour  in- 
side and  out,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  prepare  a  dressing  of 
bread  and  cracker  crumbs;  stuff  and  bake  from  2  to  3  hrs.;  baste 
frequently  while  roasting;  stew  the  giblets  in  a  saucepan.  Just  be- 
fore serving,  chop  fine,  take  up  fowl  when  done,  add  the  giblets 
and  broth  to  gravy  of  the  roast  fowl.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour 
previously  wet  with  the  water;  boil  up  and  serve  in  a  gravy  dish. 
Roast  chicken  and  turkey  should  be  accompanied  with  celery  and 
jellies. — Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Select  a  young  turkey.  Singe,  draw,  and 
wipe  the  birds  inside  and  out;  washing  destroys  the  flavor.  Truss 
the  turkey  and  place  it  in  a  baking-pan;  brush  the  breast  with 
melted  butter.  Bake  it  for  2  hrs.  if  the  turkey  weighs  about  8  or  9 
lbs.  If  stuffing  is  desired  of  chestnuts,  make  it  as  follows:  Shell, 
blanch  and  boil  them  tender;  mash,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter.  For  bread  stuffing,  spread  the  slices  with  butter,  dust  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  cut  them  into  blocks.  For  oyster  stuffing, 
mix  with  the  bread  blocks  20  fine  drained  oysters.  By  many  it  is 
thought  that  poultry  is  best  roasted  without  stuffing.    The  meat 


292  FOWL 

is  more  highly  flavored  and  juicy. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Whitney,  1760  Edge- 
water  Place,  Chicago,  111. 

TURKEY  WITH  CHESTNUT  DRESSING.— For  a  12-lb. 
turkey  boil  until  tender  2  lbs.  of  large  Italian  chestnuts.  Remove 
the  skin  and  mash  them  as  you  would  potatoes;  mix  in  half  cup  of 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  with  this  the  interior  of  the  turkey; 
sew  it  and  arrange  for  roasting  as  you  would  a  chicken.  It  should 
cook  about  2  hrs.  If  it  browns  too  fast  butter  a  nice  piece  of  v/hite 
paper  and  cover  over  it,  removing  it  a  little  later. — Mrs,  C.  E. 
JefYerson,  505  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

GERMAN  ROASTED  TURKEY  WITH  SAUSAGES.— Stuf! 
turkey  with  rich  dressing,  when  done  remove  to  platter,  surround 
with  small,  fried  sausages,  cooked  in  broth.  Put  a  handful  of  wa- 
tercress at  each  end  of  the  platter,  and  serve  with  a  well-thi:kened 
giblet  sauce. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

ROAST  TURKEY  WITH  OYSTER  DRESSING.— Dress  the 
turkey  carefully  and  rub  thoroughly,  inside  and  out,  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Stuffing. — Cut  off  the  crust  of  a  loaf  of  stale  bread  and  soften 
by  pouring  wiarm  water  on  it.  Squeeze  out  the  water,  add  V2  lb. 
melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  Yz  of  pepper;  drain  off  liquor 
from  a  qt.  of  oysters,  bring  to  a  boil,  skim  and  pour  over  the  bread 
crumbs.  Mix  all  thoroughly,  and,  if  dry,  moisten  with  a  little 
sweet  milk;  add  the  oysters.  Sew  up  the  openings,  spread  the 
turkey  over  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  place  in  a  dripping-pan  in 
a  well-heated  oven,  add  ^  pt.  of  hot  water,  and  roast,  basting  twice. 
Turn  until  browned  on  all  sides,  and  about  V2  hr.  dredge  with  a 
little  floar. 

Gravy. — Pour  ofiF  most  of  the  fat  in  the  pan  and  ad«l  boiled 
chopped  giblets,  and  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  cooked,  place 
1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour  in  a  pt.  bowl,  mix  smooth  with  a  little 
cream;  fill  up  bowl  with  rich  milk  and  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan; 
boil  several  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  and  pour  into  the  sauce 
bowl.  Serve  with  cranberry  sauce. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka, 
111. 

SWEDISH  TURKEY  STUFFING.— 2  cups  stale  bread 
crumbs;   Yz  cup  melted  butter;  Yt  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         293 

pieces;  J^  cup  English  walnut  meats,  broken  in  pieces;  salt  and  pep- 
per, sage.  Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  given. — Mrs.  Roger  Raw- 
lings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

CHESTNUT  SAUCE  FOR  ROAST  TURKEY.— Boil  chest- 
nuts tender,  peel,  cut  them  in  halves,  and  mix  in  a  brown  sauce 
made  in  the  turkey-pan. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

ROLLS  STUFFED  WITH  TURKEY.— Light  rolls,  shaped 
like  finger  rolls,  but  larger,  maybe  cut  open  on  one  side,  the  crumbs 
dug  out,  and  the  cavity  filled  with  minced  and  seasoned  chicken, 
turkey,  ham  or  tongue.  Close  the  roll  and  bind  it  with  narrow 
ribbon,  tied  with  a  bow  and  floating  ends.  Tie  the  ham  rolls  with 
one  color,  and  the  chicken  with  another. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennett, 
Bartlett,  111. 

SCALLOP  OF  TURKEY  AND  OYSTERS.— Cut  cold  roast, 
or  boiled  turkey  into  inch  lengths,  free  from  skin  and  gristle,  and 
put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  bake-dish.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  dot  with  butter,  and  cover  with  minced  raw 
oysters.  Season  this  layer,  scatter  fine  crumbs  over  it,  put  in  more 
seasoned  turkey,  and  so  on  until  your  materials  are  used  up.  Pour 
in  next  a  cup  of  gravy,  made  by  boiling  down  bones  and  stuffing 
in  a  qt.  of  water,  until  reduced  to  Yz  the  original  quantity  of  liquor, 
and  straining  out  the  bones.  Cover  with  fine  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter,  and  bake,  covered,  45  minutes,  then  brown.  You  may  omit 
the  oysters,  and  have  a  plain  turkey  scallop.  Or  substitute  chopped 
mushrooms  for  the  minced  oysters. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Winnetka, 
111. 

TO  "WARM  OVER"  TURKEY.— Cut  the  drumsticks  and 
wings  from  the  body  and  take  cJflf  -all  the  meat  remaining  on  the 
breast.  Also  use  any  pieces  that  has  been  left  over.  Disjoint  the 
rump-piece,  splitting  it  down  the  back  and  cutting  each  piece  in 
two,  thus  making  4  pieces  of  the  back.  Place  all  these  pieces  in  a 
kettle,  add  3  or  more  tablespoons  of  the  stuffing.  Add  water  to 
half  the  height  of  the  turkey  in  the  kettle,  cover  the  kettle  tightly 
and  set  it  in  a  moderate  heat.  Cook  at  least  45  minutes,  stirring 
often  and  adding  more  water,  enough  at  the  last  to  keep  the  meat 
from  sticking  to  the  kettle.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  turn  on 
a  platter  and  serve.     Do  not  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones.     The 


294  FOWL 

turkey  should  stew  so  slowly  that  it  will  only  be  thoroughly 
warmed,  and  it  should  in  no  case  fall  from  the  bones.  The  large 
body  part  of  the  turkey  is  never  used  except  for  soups, — Mrs.  C. 
E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

WARMED  OVER  TURKEY  WITH  RICE.— Cook  some  rice 
in  bouillon,  with  salt,  pepper,  2  onions,  a  clove  of  garlic,  and  a  bay 
leaf.  When  nearly  done,  add  to  it  the  left-over  cold  turkey,  cut 
into  pieces.  Boil  slowly  until  the  rice  is  thoroughly  cooked  and  the 
turkey  is  warmed  sufficiently,  and  serve. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen 
View,  111. 

WILD  FOWL  AND  GAME 

TO  ROAST  WILD  FOWL.— Put  an  onion,  salt  and  hot  water 
into  pan  and  baste  for  10  or  15  minutes,  change  the  pan,  put  in  a 
slice  of  salt  pork  and  baste  with  butter  and  pork  drippings  very 
often;  just  before  serving  dredge  lightly  with  flour,  and  baste. 
Ducks  take  from  25  to  35  minutes.  Do  not  draw  or  take  off  the 
heads  of  either;  garnish  with  fried  or  toasted  bread,  lemon,  pars- 
ley and  currant  jelly. — Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

WILD  FOWL  POT  ROAST.— Wild  duck,  prairie  chicken, 
and  all  other  wild  fowl  should  be  allowed  to  lay  in  water  for  some 
time  and  then  parboiled  with  carrots,  onion  and  parsnips  to  draw 
out  the  wild  flavor.  Stuff  with  any  preferred  dressing  and  put  into 
a  kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  prevent  scorching,  season  to 
taste,  and  cook  until  tender.  Serve  with  their  own  gravy,  thick- 
ened.— (Mrs.  John  Hansen,  1408  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

ROAST  BIRDS. — ^Draw,  and  wash  quickly;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Pin  a  thin  slice  of  salt  pork  on  the  ;breast.  Put  in  a 
shallow  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  1"5  or  20  minutes.  Baste 
often.  Serve  on  toast  with  currant  jelly  or  with  bread  sauce. 
Small  birds  may  be  'baked  in  sweet  potatoes,  or  if  large,  cut  in 
halves,  using  the  breast  only.  Cut  the  potatoes  in  halves  length- 
wise, make  a  cavity  in  each  half,  season  the  bird  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter;  fit  it  into  the  potato,  put  the  other  half  over  it,  and 
bake  till  the  potatoes  are  soft.  Remove  the  string,  tie  with  a 
bright  ribbon,  and  serve  in  the  potatoes,  garnished  with  parsley. 
An   inviting   dish   to  serve   to   an   invalid.     Small   birds   are   also 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         295 

broiled  or  stewed. — Mabel  Sturtevant,   105   S.   Dearborn   St.,   Chi- 
cago, 111. 

GAME  PIE. — Clean  thoroughly  1  doz.  birds — quail,  snipe, 
woodcock,  etc.,  and  halve  them;  add  about  2  qts.  of  water,  and 
when  it  boils  skim;  next  add  salt,  pepper,  1  bunoh  of  minced 
parsley,  1  onion,  chopped  fine,  and  3  whole  cloves;  put  in  Yz  lb. 
of  salt  pork,  cut  into  dice,  and  let  all  boil  till  tender,  care- 
fully keeping  the  birds  covered  with  water.  Thicken  with  2  table- 
spoons of  browned  flour,  and  let  it  boil  up,  stir  in  piece  of  butter 
as  large  as  an  ^%^,  remove  from  the  fire  and  let  cool.  Have  at 
hand  1  pt.  of  potatoes,  cut  into  dice,  also  a  rich  crust.  Put  the 
crust  around  the  sides  of  a  buttered  pudding  dish;  lay  in  come  of 
the  birds,  then  some  of  the  potatoes,  and  so  repeat  till  the  dish  is 
full.  Pour  in  the  gravy,  put  on  the  top  crust  slashed  at  the  center, 
and  bake  till  done.— Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Whe'^lincr,  Til. 

COMBINATION  GAME  PIE.— Wild  pigeons  and  quails, 
rice  birds,  snipe,  woodcock — in  fact  any  small  edible  birds — may 
be  blended  in  this.  Clean  the  birds,  and.  if  tough,  stew  them  in 
weak  stock.  If  they  are  too  large  for  a  whole  bird  to  be  served 
for  one  portion — cut  them  in  halve?  through  the  breastbone.  If 
the  birds  are  young  and  tender  they  may  be  browned  in  hot  but- 
ter; first  dredging  them  with  flour  instead  of  parboiling.  Ar- 
range them  in  a  deep,  round  baking-dish  with  the  breasts  up  and 
the  feet  pointing  toward  the  center.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  stock 
in  which  they  were  parboiled,  season  well  with  salt,  pepper,  onion 
juice,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  thicken  with  butter  and 
browned  flour.  Fill  in  the  central  SDace  left  by  the  feet  of  the 
game  with  mushrooms,  a  cup  of  small,  drained  oysters.  2  kidneys, 
cut  into  quarters,  "Yl  a  cup  of  pimolas,  or  with  plain  olives,  stoned, 
and  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  minced  fine,  with  1  doz.  button  onions, 
parboiled.  Pour  the  rich  gravy  over  all.  Cover  with  a  good  puff- 
paste;  make  a  slit  in  the  middle,  and  bake,  covered,  5^  an  hr.,  then 
brown. — Mrs.  W.  Williams,  4548  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PIE  OF  SMALL  BIRDS.— Clean  and  stew  blackbirds,  rice- 
birds  or  snipe,  etc.,  for  Y^  hr.  in  we'ak  stock.  Let  them  get  per- 
fectly cold  in  this  gravy;  take  out,  put  an  oyster  in  the  body  of 
each.  Arrange  around  the  inside  of  the  bake-dish,  the  necks  all 
against  the  rim,  the  tails  pointin  gtoward  the  center.     Put  a  bit 


296  FOWL 

of  butter  upon  each  breast  and  sprinkle  very  finely  minced  salt 
pork  over  all.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  browned  flour,  season  well, 
and  pour  upon  the  birds.  Cover  with  a  good  crust,  cut  a  slit  in 
the  middle  and  bake,  covered,  Y-z  an  hr.,  then  brown. — Mrs.  Roger 
Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

TO  ROAST  ANY  SMALL  BIRDS.— Stuff  the  birds  with  any 
forcemeat,  or  put  1  large  oyster  in  each  bird,  place  some  bacon  in 
an  earthen  dish,  upon  this  lay  the  birds.  If  the  forcemeat  is  used 
add  1  pt.  of  rich  stock;  if  oysters,  the  oyster  liquor.  Add  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  roast  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kellej', 
Winnetka,  111. 

SMALL  BIRDS  ROASTED  IN  POTATOES— Halve  sweet 
potatoes  lengthwise  and  scrape  out  the  inside,  making  a  place 
large  enough  in  each  half  to  hold  Y^  bird.  Clean  and  draw  the 
birds,  and  cut  off  heads  and  legs.  Place  a  piece  of  butter  in  each 
bird,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  spread  them  with  butter  and 
place  them  in  the  potato  shells,  tying  a  string  around  each  potato 
to  hold  the  pieces  together^  Roast  in  a  baking-pan,  and  serve  in 
the  potatoes. — ^^Mrs.  C  J.  Canthorn,  Wilmette,  111. 

PLAIN  SALAMI  OF  GAME.— This  can  be  made  from  re- 
mains of  roasted  game,  but  to  have  it  in  perfection  the  birds 
should  be  only  half  roasted.  Carve  them  very  neatly  and  remove 
every  bit  of  skin  and  fat  from  the  legs,  wings  and  breasts;  bruise 
the  bodies  well,  and  put  them  with  the  skin  and  trimmings  into  a 
slewpan;  add  2  sliced  onions,  1  bay  leaf,  1  small  blade  of  mace, 
and  a  few  peppercorns.  Pour  over  these  ingredients  a  full  pt.  of 
veal  gravy,  broth  or  stock,  and  boil  sharply,  until  reduced  almost 
half;  now  strain  the  gravy,  skim  off  the  fat,  add  a  little  cayenne 
and  lemon  juice,  and  in  it  heat  very  gradually,  but  do  not  boil, 
the  game.  Border  a  dish  with  fried  bread,  put  the  birds  in  the 
center;  boil  the  gravy  up  once  and  pour  over  the  birds.  (Any  cold 
game  can  be  warmed  up  in  Salami's  sauce.) — Mrs.  Helen  Wil- 
liams, 6032  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

TO  STEW  BIRDS — Wash  and  stuff  them  with  bread  crumbs, 
seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  butter  or  chopped  salt  pork,  and  fasten 
them  tight;  line  a  stewpan  with  slices  of  'bacon,  add  a  qt.  of  water 
and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  goose  egg,'or  else  4  slices  of  salt 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         297 

pork;  add,  if  3'ou  like,  sliced  onions,  sweet  herbs  and  mace;  stew 
till  tender,  then  take  them  up  and  strain  the  gravy  over  them;  add 
boiling  water  if  the  liquor  is  too  much  reduced. — Mrs.  Allan 
George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

ROASTED  WILD  DUCK.— Parboil  the  duck  with  an  onion 
placed  inside  (to  absorb  the  fishy  flavor).  Throw  away  the  onion, 
lay  in  fresh  water  for  Yz  an  hr.,  stuff  with  bread  crumbs,  seasoned 
with  salt,  pepper,  sage  and  onion,  and  roast  until  brown  and  ten- 
der. Add  to  the  gravy,  after  the  ducks  are  removed,  1  teaspoon 
of  currant  jelly  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Thicken  with  browned 
flour,  and  serve. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Dress  and  clean  ^  wild  duck  and  truss  as 
goose.  Place  on  rack  in  dripping  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  cover  breast  with  2  very  thin  slices  fat  salt  pork.  Bake 
20  to  30  minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven,  basting  every  5  minutes  with 
fat  in  pan;  cut  and  remove  string  and  skewers.  Serve  with 
orange  or  olive  sauce.  Currant  jelly  should  accompany  a  duck 
course.  Domestic  ducks  should  always  be  well  cooked,  requiring 
little  more  than  twice  the  time  allowed  for  wild  ducks.  Ducks 
are  sometimes  stuffed  with  apples,  pared,  cored,  and  cut  in  quar- 
ters, or  3  small  onions  may  be  put  in  body  of  duck  to  improve  the 
flavor.  Serve  neither  apples  nor  onions.  If  a  stuffing  is  to  be  de- 
sired, cover  pieces  of  dry  bread  with  boiling  water;  as  soon  as 
bread  has  absorbed  water,  press  out  the  water;  season  bread  with 
salt,  pepper,  melted  butter,  finely  chopped  onion.-=-Mrs.  C.  E.  Jef- 
ferson, 505  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CANVAS-BACK  AND  RED-HEAD  DUCKS.— Carefully 
draw,  pick  and  singe  the  birds;  wipe  very  clean,  or  wash,  if  pre- 
ferred, using  salted  water.  When  drawing  the  birds  cut  lengthwise 
slit  over  the  crop,  and,  after  the  windpipe  and  all  other  innards 
have  been  removed,  and  the  duck  carefully  cleaned,  pass  the  head 
through  this  opening  into  the  inside  of  the  duck,  then  reach  in 
and  pull  it  through,  letting  emerge  at  the  opening  made  in  draw- 
ing, between  the  drumsticks.  Run  a  threaded  trussing-needle 
through  the  legs,  the  neck,  and  out  through  the  second  leg,  return 
to  the  first  side  in  the  same  way,  leaving  a  short  stitch  on  the 
opposite  side;  tie  tightly  to  keep  the  head  in  place.  When  the 
duck  is  roasted  cut  this  stitch  and  draw  out  the  threads  by  the 


298  FOWL 

knot  on  the  other  side.  Cut  off  the  wings  at  the  second  joint.  If 
the  feet  be  left  on,  dip  them  into  scalding  water  and  rub  off  the 
thin  layer  of  skin.  Twist  the  legs  out  of  joint  at  the  point  where 
the  flesh  begins  and  double  them  backward  on  the  upper  part  of 
the  leg.  Pass  the  tail  through  the  vent.  Authorities  differ  as  to 
salting  wild  duck  before  cooking  and  basting  while  cooking,  but 
all  agree  that  the  oven  in  which  they  are  placed  should  be  very 
hot.  The  time  required  for  cooking  is  from  18  minutes,  for  very 
rare,  to  40  minutes  for  well-done  birds.  Often  wild  ducks  are 
trussed  in  a  manner  similar  to  tame  fowl.  A  bunch  of  celery  is  thrust 
inside  the  body,  the  neck  is  cut  off  close  to  the  breastbone,  and 
the  skin  is  turned  over  and  fastened  down  on  the  back  with  a  stitch 
that  holds  the  wings  in  place.  The  head,  from  which  the  eyes 
have  been  removed  is  placed  in  the  opening  made  in  drawing  the 
duck  and  fastened  there  by  a  thread  passing  through  the  legs 
and  eyes'ockets,  which  is  returned  in  the  same  manner  to  the  first 
leg  and  tied. — ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn,  Wilmette,  111. 

BREAST     OR     GROUSE    SAUTE    CHASSEUR.— Remove 

breasts  from  pair  of  grouse  and  saute  in  butter.  When  partially 
cooked,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Break  carcasses  in  pieces, 
cover  with  cold  water,  add  carrot,  celery,  onion,  parsley  and  bay 
leaf  and  cook  until  stock  is  reduced  to  three-fourths  cup.  Ar- 
range grouse  on  a  serving  dish,  and  pour  around  a  sauce  made  of 
3  tablespoons  butter,  4j/2  tablespoons  flour,  stock  made  from 
grouse,  and  ^  cup  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes.  Season  with 
salt,  cayenne  and  lemon  juice,  and  add  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
parsley  and  54  cup  canned  mushrooms,  cut  in  slices. — ^Mrs.  Joseph 
King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

BROILED  GROUSE.— Cut  the  grouse  in  halves  through  the 
breast  and  back,  season  and  dip  in  oil,  or  melted  butter,  and  then 
in  bread  crumbs,  and  broil  in  a  double  broiler  over  a  moderate 
fire,  turning  when  well  done  on  the  flesh  side.  When  done  spread 
with  maitre  d'hotel  butter. — Mrs.  Frank  Mullins,  Franklin,  III. 

LARDED  GROUSE. — Clean,  remove  pinions,  and  if  it  be 
tough,  the  skin  covering  breast.  Lard  breast  and  insert  2  lar- 
doons  in  each  leg.  Truss  and  place  on  trivet  in  small,  shallow 
pan;  rub  with  salt,  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  dredge  with  flour 
and   surround  with   trimmings   of  fat  salt  pork.     Bake  20  to  25 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  299 

minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  three  times.  Arrange  on  platter, 
remove  string  and  skewers,  pour  around  'bread  sauce,  and  sprinkle 
bird  and  saiice  with  coarse  brown  bread;  crumbs.  Garnish  with 
parsley. — Mrs.  Helen  Williams,  6032  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  III. 

VARIATION  I. — Clean,  rinse  out  well  with  soda  and  water, 
then  with  pure  water;  wipe  inside  and  out,  and  cover  with  thin 
slices  of  corned  ham — ^^more  fat  than  lean.  Bind  carcass  with  soft 
twine  or  narrow  tape,  pour  a  cup  of  boiling  water  over  them  and 
roast  40  minutes,  basting  with  the  gravy  in  the  pan  three  times. 
Take  off  the  bacon,  wash  the  birds  with  butter,  dredge  with  flour 
and  brown  while  you  make  the  gravy.  Thicken  this  with  browned 
flour,  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  boil  up,  pour  in  a  small  glass 
of  claret,  and  serve.  Garnish  with  the  halved  or  whole  olives. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S*.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Truss  as  chicken,  put  a  piece  of  butter  in- 
side each  bird,  and  roast  in  a  hot  oven  from  20  to  30  minutes, 
basting  frequently  with  melted  butter,  or  fat  fromi  salt  pork. 
When  about  cooked — dark-meated  game  is  served  rare — season 
with  salt  and  dredge  with  flour.  Serve  on  moistened  toast,  spread 
with  the  liver  cooked,  mashed  fine,  and  seasoned  with  butter,  salt, 
and  pepper,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Serve  with  apple 
sauce.  Bread  sauce  or  clear  gravy  may  be  served  in  a  dish  apart. 
If  bread  sauce  accompany  the  roast,  sprinkle  the  bird  with  bread 
crumibs,  browned  in  butter. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Marrs,  55  E.  36th  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

GUINEA  FRICASEE.— Draw,  singe  and  cut  the  guineas  the 
same  as  for  fricasee  of  chicken.  Put  K  lb.  of  sliced  bacon  into  a 
good-sized  stewing-pan,  add  a  5^  cup  of  water,  boil  until  the  water 
has  evaporated  and  then  "try"  out  the  fat  carefully,  remove  the 
cracklings  and  put  in  the  guinea,  turning  until  carefully  browned. 
Add  to  the  fat  4  tablespoons  of  flour;  mix  and  add  1  qt.  of  stock 
or  water,  th^  first  always  preferable;  stir  until  boiling,  add  a  table- 
spoon of  chopped  onions,  just  a  suspicion  of  garlic;  2  level  tea- 
spoons of  salt,  2  saltspoons  of  pepper;  put  in  the  guinea  hens  and 
stew  slowly  1  hr. ;  when  done,  dish,  remove  any  fat  that  may  come 
to  the  surface  of  the  sauce,  and  strain  it  over.  Garnish  the  dish 
with  squares  of  fried  hominy  or  triangular  pieces  of  toast.  Serve 
potato  croquettes,  scalloped  or  baked  tomatoes  or  baked  onion,  or 


300  FOWL 

garnish    with   iboiled    or    baked    dumplings. — Mrs.    A.    C.    Christy, 
Glen  View,  III. 

ROASTED  GUINEA  FOWL.— Clean,  stuff  and  roast  like 
duck  or  chicken,  and  serve  with  currant  jelly. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,    111. 

LARKS  AND  OTHER  SMALL  BIRDS.— Skin  the  birds, 
draw  and  wash  them  inside  very  thoroughly.  Put  a  small  piece  of 
butter  and  a  little  pepper  inside  of  each  bird,  sew  together  with 
thread,  and  run  one  thin  skewer  through,  several  at  a  timie.  Roast 
slowly  about  10  minutes,  basting  with  butter  while  roasting.  Serve 
on  toast  with  brown  sauce  or  gravy. — Mrs.  Louise  Roberts,  944 
Wells  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  PARTRIDGES.— Wash  and  truss  them  and  put 
into  boiling  water,  sprinkle  a  teaspoon  of  salt  over  and  simmer 
them  very  gently  for  ^  hr.,  or  if  the  birds  are  old,  20  minutes. 
Serve  with  sliced  lemon  round  the  dish,  and  with  white  celery 
sauce,  or  bread  sauce,  accompanied  by  game  gravy. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

PARTRIDGE  AND  CABBAGE.— Pick  and  clean  2  partridges. 
Take  a  good-sized  Savoy  cabbage;  pick,  wash,  and  cut  it  in  4  or  5 
pieces.  Put  it  in  boiling  water  with  salt  and  let  it  boil  for  20 
minutes.  Strain  it  and  chop  it,  not  too  finely.  Take  a  deep,  fire- 
proof dish.  Cover  the  bottom  with  a  layer  of  carrots,  cut  in  thin 
slices,  2  sliced  onions,  2  bay  leaves,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley. 
On  this  lay  the  two  partridges.  Cover  them  with  thin  slices  of 
pork  and  arrange  around  them  a  string  of  sausages.  Then  cover 
the  top  with  the  cabbage  and  sprinkle  it  with  a  little  pepper;  put 
in  a  ^  pt.  of  bouillon.  Cover  tight,  put  in  the  oven  and  let  cook 
slowly  for  3  hrs.  If  the  partridges  are  young  2  hrs.  will  be  suffi- 
cient. When  ready  to  serve,  arrange  the  partridges  on  the  center 
of  the  dish  with  the  cabbage  around  them,  on  the  top  of  which 
you  arrange  the  pork  and  sausages. — 'Mrs.  Roger  Rawlings,  Chi- 
cago Heights,  111. 

ROAST  PARTRIDGE.— Pick,  draw  and  wash  carefully. 
Truss  them,  binding  thin  slices  of  smoked  bacon  around  them. 
Roast  15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  About  7  minutes  before  serving, 
remove  the  bacon,  salt  the  partridge  lightly,  and  brown  them  in 
an  oven.     Serve  with  a  gravy. — ^^Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  301 

VARIATION  I. — Select  plump  birds,  pick  and  clean  as  you 
would  chickens,  washing  them)  out  quickly  in  cold  water.  To  allow 
them  to  lie  in  the  water  injures  their  ffavor.  Tie  the  legs  and 
wings  closely  to  the  sides  and  put  the  birds  in  a  covered  roaster 
with  a  cup  of  water  under  them.  Rub  with  butter,  dredge  with 
flour,  and  cook  for  J^  an  hr.  Now  remove  the  cover  of  the  roaster 
and  baste  the  birds  plentifully  with  melted  butter.  Replace  the 
cover,  cook  for  15  minutes  longer,  uncover,  and  brown. — Mrs.  C. 
E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

PARTRIDGE,    ROASTED,    BROILED    AND    BOILED.— 

Truss  and  roast  the  same  as  a  chicken,  basting  frequently.  It 
will  take  about  40  minutes  to  cook.  Serve  with  bread,  or  Becham- 
el sauce.  Prepare  for  broiling,  the  same  as  chicken,  brush  over 
the  inside  with  oil  or  melted  butter  and  broil  about  25  minutes  on 
the  flesh  si'de,  then  brown  on  the  skin  side.  The  fire  needs  be 
moderate  and  the  broiling  may  be  done  in  the  oven,  as  partridge 
boiled  or  served  in  a  fricasee  (white)  are  very  good. — Mrs.  Frank 
Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

PHEASANT. — Prepare  like  other  game;  lard,  rub  with  salt, 
wrap  in  grapevine  leaves  and  roast  1  to  Ij^  hrs.  in  plenty  of  but-' 
ter,  to  keep  them  juicy  and  tender. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka.  111. 

BROILED  PHEASANTS,  PARTRIDGES,  QUAILS  AND 
GROUSE. — Clean  the  birds  and  split  them  down  the  back.  Sprin- 
kle with  salt  and  pepper,  dust  with  flour  to  keep  in  the  juices,  and 
broil  in  a  wire  broiler,  laying  the  inside  to  the  fire  first.  When 
done,  allow  about  10  minutes  for  quail,  25  to  40  for  partridge  and 
pheasant,  lay  them  on  a  warm  dish,  butter  them  on  both  sides, 
and  serve.  During  the  broiling,  if  the  breasts  are  quite  thick, 
cover  the  broiler  with  a  pan  and  see  that  the  fire  is  not  too  fierce. 
Broiled  quail  are  considered  very  nourishing  food  for  invalids. — 
Mrs.  Roger  Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

HASHED  PHEASANTS.— Cut  cold  pheasants  into  pieces, 
and  brown  lightly  over  the  fire,  in  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little 
flour.  Pour  into  a  stewpan  a  glass  of  port  wine  and  a  cup  of 
water,  with  a  spoonful  of  browned  flour;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste; 
boil,  skim,  and  stir  until  very  thick,  then  put  in  the  pieces  of  the 


302  FOWL 

pheasant  and  make  them  very  hot,  but  not  boil.  Place  the  meat 
on  a  dish,  and  strain  the  gravy  over.  Garnish  with  sippets  of 
fried  bread. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

PANNED  PHEASANTS,  PARTRIDGES,  QUAILS  AND 
GROUSE. — Clean  and  split  the  birds  down  the  back.  Dip  them 
quickly  in  cold  water  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour. 
Place  the  birds  in  a  small  baking-dish  with  the  inside  of  each  up- 
ward; place  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  each  bird,  add  a  cup  of 
water,  and  roast  in  the  oven,  allowing  5  to  20  minutes  for  quail 
and  proportionally  longer  for  larger  birds,  basting  every  5  min- 
utes after  the  first  15.  Thicken  the  gravy,  add  salt  and  pepper,  if 
necessary,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  birds. — Mrs.  Chris  Worth- 
ington,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

ROASTED  PHEASANTS,  PARTRIDGES,  QUAIL  AND 
GROUSE. — Clean,  truss  and  stuff  the  birds  the  same  as  turkey, 
and  bake  until  brown,  basting  often  with  butter  and  water.  Thick- 
en the  gravy  and  pour  it  over  the  birds.  Serve  with  dried  hot 
crumbs  and  bread  sauce. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen  View,  111. 

BOILED  PIGEONS  OR  SQUABS — Young  pigeons  or 
squabs  are  rightly  esteemed  a  great  delicacy.  They  are  cleaned, 
washed  and  dried  carefully  with  a  clean  cloth;  then  split  down 
the  back  and  broiled  like  a  chicken;  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  butter  liberally  in  dishing  them. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Bensen, 
111. 

BRAISED  PIGEONS.— Prepare  the  pigeons  as  for  potted 
pigeons,  and  cook  in  a  braising-pan.  Cook  spinach;  chop  it  fine, 
and  season.  Spread  the  spinach  on  slices  of  toast  and  lay  the 
pigeons  on  the  spinach,  one  on  each  side.  Serve  the  gravy  in  a 
boat. — iMrs.  Allan  George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

BRAISED  WILD  PIGEONS.— Clean,  wash  carefully;  put  a 
lump  of  butter  in  the  body  of  each  and  bind  legs  and  wings  neatly 
to  the  sides  of  the  birds.  Fry  6  or  8  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  in  the 
frying-pan  until  crisp,  but  not  burned.  Strain  the  fat  back,  lay 
in  the  pigeons  and  roll  over  and  over  in  the  "boiling  grease  until 
seared  on  all  sides.  Take  them  up  and  keep  hot.  Add  a  spoonful 
of  butter  to  the  hot  fat,  and  when  it  hisses  fry  a  large  onion, 
sliced,  in  it.     Lay  the  pigeons  upon   the  grating  of  the  roaster, 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  303 

pour  the  boiling  fat  and  onion  over  them;  add  a  cupful  of  weak 
stock;  cover  closely,  and  cook  steadily  for  54  oi  an  hr.  Test  the 
birds  with  a  skewer  or  fork  and,  if  tender,  wash  with  butter, 
dredge  and  brown.  Remove  to  a  hot  dish  and  make  the  gravy. 
Thicken  and  season  to  taste,  stir  in  a  dozen  stoned  olives  or 
''pimolas."  If  you  can  get  fresh  mushrooms,  fry  or  broil  a  dozen 
and  lay  about  the  pigeons,  when  they  are  ready  to  serve. — Mrs. 
Jas.  Russell,  3519  S.  La  Salle  St.,  Chicago  111. 

PIGEONS  EN  COMPOTE.— Put  J^  cup  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  set  it  on  a  good  fire.  When  the  butter  begins  to  brown 
put  in  4  pigeons,  which  you  have  cleaned  and  prepared  as  you 
would  chickens.  Brown  them  all  around  and  then  remove  them 
from  the  saucepan,  replacing  them  by  y^  lb.  of  salt  pork,  cut  dice 
shape,  and  1  doz.  small  white  onions.  When  these  arvj  browned 
remove  them  into  a  dish;  throw  away  the  fat  in  the  saucepan  and 
replace  it  with  ^^  cup  of  butter.  When  melted,  stir  in  a  table- 
spoon of  flour;  keep  stirring  until  browned.  Add,  then,  a  14  pt. 
of  bouillon  and  4  tablespoons  of  white  wine.  Stir  until  smooth; 
put  in  the  pigeons,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  tied 
up  with  1  bay  leaf.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  for  1  hr.  Then  add 
the  browned  onions  and  ^  lb.  of  mushrooms,  if  desired.  Cook  J^ 
an  hr.  longer,  and  serve  with  the  gravy  poured  over  the  pigeons 
in  the  dish. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

.  JUGGED  PIGEONS.— Pick  pigeons,  wash  and  dry  them  in  a 
cloth,  and  cut  them  into  pieces.  Season  well  with  a  little  pounded 
mace,  pepper  and ''salt.  Put  into  a  jar,  and  cover  well  over  to 
prevent  the  steam  escaping.  Place  in  a  double  boiler  or  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water.  Then  take  out  the  pigeons,  put  the  gravy 
into  a  stewpan  with  a  glass  of  wine,  a  tablespoon  of  catsup,  a 
sprig  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  piece  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour.  Serve 
the  pigeons  on  a  very  hot  dish,  with  the  gravy  poured  over  them. 
— Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

PIGEON  PIE. — Stuff  6  pigeons  with  any  desired  dressing, 
loosen  the  joints  with  a  knife,  but  do  not  sepaarte  them.  Put  into 
a  stevirpan  with  water  enough  to  cover.  Thicken  with  flour,  re- 
move and  cool,  butter  a  pudding  dish,  line  the  sides  with  a  rich 
pie  crust.  Have  ready  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  slices.  Put  in  a 
layer  of  eggs,  birds  and  gravy,  and  repeat  until  the  dish  is  full. 


^04  FOWL 

Cover  with  the  crust,  and  bake. — Mrs.  John  M.  Murray,  Jr.,  1414 
S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PIGEON  POT  ROAST.— Old  pigeons  should  be  stewed  first, 
but  squabs  require  no  previous  cooking-.  Take  the  hearts,  livers, 
gizzard,  and  grind  them  up  with  ^  apple  to  each  pigeon,  2  prunes 
and  a  little  onion;  ^  lb.  of  beef  may  also  be  added,  if  liked,  and 
is  a  decided  improvement.  Stuff  the  prepared  pigeons  or  squabs, 
put  into  a  kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  prevent  burning,  and 
cook  slowly  until  done.  All,  or  part  milk,  may  be  used  instead 
of  water  in  roasting  pigeons  or  squabs. — Mrs.  John  Hansen,  1408 
S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PIGEONS  WITH  GREEN  PEAS.— Brown  4  pigeons  in  ^ 
cup  of  butter.  Then  add  Yz  cup  of  bouillon,  salt,  pepper,  a  small 
bundle  of  parsley,  and  3  or  4  new  green  onions,  or  6  small,  white 
onions.  iCover  and  cook  for  1^  hrs.  Then  add  1  pt.  of  shelled 
green  peas;  cook  5^  an  hr.  longer,  and  serve.  If  the  peas  are  not 
very  tender  they  will  need  to  cook  longer,  and  it  would  be  better 
to  let  them  cook  from  ^  of  an  hr,  to  1  hr. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennetst, 
Bartlett,  111. 

ROAST  PIGEONS.— Wash  and  thoroughly  clean  the  pig- 
eons; wipe  them  dry,  season  them  on  the  inside  'with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  put  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter  into  the  body  of  eadh' 
bird.  Roast  them  before  a  clear,  bright  fire,  basting  them  well  all 
of  the  time.  Serve  with  gravy  and  bread  sauce,  or  garnish  with 
fried  parsley,  and  serve  with  parsley  and  butter  added  to  a  little 
gravy. — ^Mrs.  A.   E.  Whitney,  1760  Edgewater  Place,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Clean  and  truss  2  young  pigeons.  Mince 
the  livers,  and  mix  2  oz.  of  finely-grated  bread  crumbs,  2  oz.  of 
fresh  butter,  -an  onion,  finely  minced,  a  teaspoon  of  shredded 
parsley,  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  with  it.  Fill  the 
birds  with  this  forcetneat,  fasten  a  slice  of  fat  bacon  over  the 
breast  of  each,  and  roast.  Make  a  sauce  by  mixing  a  little  water 
with  the  gravy  which  drops  from  the  birds,  and  boiling  it  with  a 
little  thickening;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  chopped  parsley. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

POTTED  PIGEONS.— Draw  and  clean.  Break  the  legs  just 
above  the  feet;  leave  enough  below  the  joint  to  tie  down  to  the 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         305 

tail.  Wash  and  wipe.  If  old  and  tough,  cover  them  with  vinegar, 
spiced  and  flavored  with  onion,  and  let  them  stand  several  hrs. 
This  makes  them  tender.  Drain  and  wipe;  stuff,  if  you  like,  with 
cracker  crumbs  highly  seasoned  and  moistened  with  butter. 
Dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour.  Fry  several  slices  of  salt 
pork,  cut  1  large  onion  fine,  and  fry  in  the  salt  pork  fat.  Put  the 
crisp  fat  in  the  stewpan,  add  the  fried  onion,  then  brown  the  pig- 
eons all  over  in  the  fat  left  in  the  pan.  Put  them  in  the  stewpan;' 
add  a  pinch  of  hefhs,  tied  in  a  bag.  Simmer  from  1  to  3  hrs.,  or 
till  the  pigeons  are  tender.  Remove  the  fat  from  the  broth,  sea- 
son to  taste,  and  thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  cooked  together. 
Strain  over  the  pigeons,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn,  Wil- 
mette.  111. 

STEWED  PIGEONS.-^Clean  and  truss  the  pigeons,  partially 
cover  with  boiling  water.  Add  1  onion,  5^  carrot  andi'^some  pars- 
ley. Cook  slowly,  until  tender,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Have  ready  some  slices  of  buttered  toast,  and  place  the  pigeons 
on  these.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  olives.  Thicken  the  broth 
with  a  little  flour,  and  serve. — 'Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

PIGEONS  STEWED  IN  BROTH.— Clean,  singe  and  truss 
the  pigeons  in  the  same  manner  as  fowls.  Cut  as  many  slices  of 
bacon  as  there  are  pigeons  into  bits;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
sliced  onion,  brown  slightly,  then  put  in  the  pigeons,  a  sprig  .or 
two  of  parsley,  and  a  bay  leaf;  half  cover  with  water  or  light 
stock,  and  let  simmer  until  tender,  turning  once  or  twice  and  add- 
ing salt  and  pepper  and  more  liquid,  if  needed.  When  tender,  cut 
and  draw  the  threads  with  which  the  birds  were  trussed  and  dis- 
pose the  pigeons  in  nests  of  hot  spinach,  arranged:  on  slices  of 
toast.  Garnish  with  stuffed  olives.  Remove  the  fat  from  the 
broth,  thicken  it  with  flour,  smoothed  in  water;  strain,  and  use  as 
a  sauce. — ^^Mrs.  C.  E.  Jefferson,  505  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PIGEON  AND  MUSHROOM  STEW.-^Cut  2  pigeons  into 
small  portions  and  let  them  cook  a  short  time  in  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  in  a  stewpan,  being  careful  not  to  brown  them.  Next  add 
to  the  contents  of  the  pan  1  pt.  of  good,  thick  stock  or  gravy,  1. 
tablespoon  of  mushroom  catsup,  and  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne  to 
taste.     Simmer  for  %  of  an  hr.,  throw  in  a  dozen  of  two  mush- 


306  FOWL 

rooms,  cook  10  minutes  more,  and  then  stir  in  2  tablespoons  of 
cream.  Add  a  little  sherry,  if  desired.  Arrange  the  mushrooms 
around  the  pigeons  on  a  hot  platter,  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs. 
Roger  Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

STEWED  WILD  PIGEONS.— Wash  well,  when  you  have 
cleaned  them,  rinse  out  with  soda  and  water,  and  leave  in  salt 
and  water  for  1  hr.  Chop  fat  corned  pork  fine,  season  with  onion 
fuice  and  paprika,  and  put  a  teaspoon  into  the  body  of  each  bird.i 
Truss  neatly,  winding  the  body  about  with  soft  thread,  and  put  in 
a  saucepan.  Cover  wi!h  cold  water  and  simmer  gently,  until 
tender.  Take  up,  then  lay  in  a  fireproof  dish.  Wash  with  butter, 
beaten  to  a  cream,  with  lemon  juice,  onion  juice,  and  finely  minced 
parsley,  and  set  in  the  oven  over  hot  w^ater.  Thicken  the  gravy 
with  browned  flour,  beat  in  a  great  spoon  of  currant  jelly,  add  2 
doz.  champignons,  cut  into  halves,  boil  1  minute,  return  the  pig- 
eons to  the  gravy,  and  simmer  10  minutes. — Mrs.  Abner  Grant, 
Sherman,  111. 

STUFFED  PIGEONS.— Mince  the  livers  of  4  pigeons  and  an 
equal  quantity  of  beef  suet  or  marrow,  bread  crumbs,  and  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  seasoned  with  a  little  beaten  mace,  nutmeg,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  chopped  fine.  Mix  all  to- 
gether with  the  yolk  of  a  beaten  egs^.  Cut  the  skins  of  4  pigeons 
between  the  legs  and  the  bodies  and  carefully  raise  the  skin  from 
the  flesh  with  the  fingers,  but  take  care  not  to  break  it.  Put  in  the 
above  stuffing,  truss  the  legs  close  to  keep  it  in,  roast  and  baste 
the  birds  well  with  butter;  save  the  gravy  which  runs  from  them, 
and  mix  it  with  a  glass  of  port  wine  and  some  of  the  forcemeat,  a 
little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt;  thicken  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
well  beaten;  boil  up  once;  put  the  pigeons  in  a  hot  tureen  or 
serving-dish,  pour  the   sauce   over,   and   serve. — Mabel   Sturtevant, 

105  S.  DeadDorn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

• 

PIGEONS  STUFFED  WITH  PARSLEY.— Allow  1  pt.  of 
loose  parsley  for  each  pigeon.  Wash,  remove  the  large  stems,  and 
chop  very  fine,  adding  salt  and  pepper,  and  2  or  3  tablespoons  of 
water  while  chopping.  StuflF  the  pigeons  with  the  parsley:  add 
also  the  fieart  and  a  5^-inch  cube  of  salt  pork  for  each  pigeon. 
Add  the  water  left  in  the  tray  to  that  in  the  stewpan,  and  cook  ais 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  307 

in   the  preceding   rule. — Mabel   Sturtevant,   105   S.   Dearborn   St., 
Chicago,  111. 

SQUABS. — Squabs,  if  young  and  tender,  are  broiled  or  roast- 
ed whole,  riie  same  as  woodcock,  and  are  very  delicious  when 
carefully  prepared.  If  at  all  old,  stewing  or  braising  is  the  better 
way. — Mary  E.  Stark,  3753  Armour  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PRAIRIE  CHICKENS  WITH  BREAD  SAUCE.— Chop  the 
liver,  add  some  melted  butter,  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to 
the  bread  crumbs.  Stuff  the  chicken  with  this,  and  sew  up  care- 
fully. Lay  thin  sti{ips  of  bacon  over  it,  and  roast.  Serve  with  a 
bread  sauce  made  as  follows:  Place  a  sliced  onion  in  y^  pt.  of 
milk  over  boiling  water,  cook  until  the  onion  is  soft.  Then  add 
Y-z  pt.  of  bread  crumbs,  and  leave  it  covered  for  Y^  an  hr.  Beat  it 
sm'ooth,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  rubbed 
in  a  little  flour,  and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  it  of  the  proper 
thickness;  boil  a  few  minutes. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

BROILED  QUAIL.— Pick,  draw  the  birds  and  remove  the 
heads  and  feet.  Wipe  out  the  bodies  with  a  wet  cloth,  split  down 
the  back  and  lay  open  upon  a  gridiron.  Broil  on  both  sides,  tak- 
ing care  that  the  delicate  flesh  is  not  dried  into  tastelessness. 
Lay  the  quail  upon  slices  of  buttered  toast,  put  a  lump  of  butter 
upon  each,  and  sprinkle  with  butter  and  salt.  Set  in  the  oven  until 
the  butter  melts,  then  send  to  the  table. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Win- 
netka.  111. 

QUAIL  PIE. — Joint  as  you  would  a  chicken  for  fricasee,  cov- 
er the  baking-dish  bottom  with  thin  slices  of  streaky  bacon,  firs't 
partially  boiled  to  extract  the  salt;  cover  with  a  white  sauce,  a 
few  mushrooms,  or  a  little  mushroom  catsup,  and  some  chopped 
parsley,  then  with  puff-paste.  Cut  a  slit  in  the  middle;  bake,  cov- 
ered, and  slowly,  1  hr.  Uncover,  and  brown. — Mrs.  Chris.  Worth- 
ington,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

ROAST  QUAIL. — Draw  and  truss  the  quails,  fastening  a 
piece  of  fat  pork  over  the  breast  of  each.  Place  them  in  a  baking- 
pan  with  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  4  of  boiling  water.  Roast 
16  to  20  minutes,  basting  often.     When  done,  take  off  the  bacon. 


308  FOWL 

put  them  on  a  platter  and  garnish  with  watercress.     Pour  a  rich 
brown  gravy  around  the  birds. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Pick  and  dress  as  you  would  chickens,  wipe 
clean,  and  rub  them  both  inside  and  out  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Stuff  with  any  dressing  preferred^  and  sew  up  with  a  fine  thread. 
Spread  with  'butter  and  place  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  basting 
often  with  hot  water,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Bake 
about  }i  of  an  hr.  Add  a  little  thickening  to  the  gravy  in  the 
pan. — Mrs.   Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,   Maywood,   111. 

QUAIL  ROASTED  IN  GRAPE  LEAVES.— Butter  the  in- 
side of  the  6  singed,  cleaned  and  wiped  quail  and  sprinkle  lightly 
with  salt  and  pepper,  rub  lightly  on  the  outside  with  butter,  then 
truss  and  wrap  the  6  bird^  in  12  fresh  grape  leaves;  set  on  the 
rack  in  a  baking-pan,  put  the  butter  in  the  pan  and  roast  the  birds 
from  20  to  30  minutes.  Have  ready  6  slices  of  buttered  toast,  add 
2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  water,  and  juice  of  1 
lemon  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan,  let  cook  3  or  4  minutes,  strain,  and 
set  on  the  fire  2  minutes  longer,  then  pour  over  the  breasts  of  the 
birds.  The  grape  leaves  impart  a  very  peculiar  and  grateful  fla- 
vor to  the  quail.  Serve  green  grape  jelly  with  quail. — Mrs.  C.  E. 
Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

QUAIL  STEW.— Cut  2  quails  down  the  back,  lengthwise, 
place  them  in  a  pan  with  some  butter,  and  cook  them.  Lay  the 
quails  upon  2  large  slices  of  t.oasted  or  fried  bread.  Add  a  little 
water  to  the  liquor,  thicken,  and  pour  it  over  the  birds,  squeezing 
a  little  lemon  juice  over  them. — Mrs.  E,  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

QUAILS  ON  TOAST.— Wipe  5  quails;  do  not  remove  the 
legs;  string  them  tight,  so  as  to  raise  the  breasts.  Put  a  little 
butter  on  each,  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  inside  each  a  ^  ot  a 
peeled  lemon.  Put  a  very  thin  slice  of  pork,  about  3  inches 
square,  round  each  quail,  with  2  or  3  cuts  in  each  slice,  and  string 
it  tight.  Let  cook  on  a  good  fire,  when  nearly  done  cut  the 
string;  dress  on  toast,  and  serve  hot.  Pour  the  juice  on  the  quails 
after  having  taken  off  the  fat,  and  put  some  slices  of  lemon 
around  the  dish,  1  for  each  quail. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka, 
111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  309 

VARIATION  I.— After  the  birds  are  nicely  cleaned  cut  them 
open  down  the  back,  salt  and  pepper  them,  and  dredge  with  flour, 
break  down  the  breast  and  back  bones  so  they  will  lie  flat,  and 
place  them  in  a  pan  with  very  little  water  and  butter  in  a  hot 
oven,  covering  them  tightly  until  nearly  done,  then  place  in  a 
spider  in  hot  butter,  and  fry  a  moment,  till  a  nice  brown;  have 
ready  slices  of  baker's  bread,  toasted  and  slightly  buttered,  upon 
a  platter.  The  toast  should  be  broken  down  with  a  carving  knife, 
so  that  it  will  be  in  the  pan,  thicken  lightly  with  browned  flour 
and  pour  over  each  quail  and  %the  toast. — Mrs.  John  H.  Snyder, 
1337  W.  Madison  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

REED  BIRDS Reed  birds  for  broiling  should  be  thoroughly 

dried  and  then  greased  with  Lucca  oil,  placed  on  a  steel  skewer 
and  held  close  to  the  coals  on  a  broiler  for  1  minute  on  each  side 
to  stop  the  pores  and  prevent  the  juice  escaping.  They  should 
then  be  held  a  little  further  from  the  coals  and  cooked  much  or 
little,  as  preferred.  Serve  on  toast  with  currant  jelly, — ^^Mrs.  Rog- 
er Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  III. 

ROAST  REED  BIRDS.— Pluck  and  draw  carefully,  then  salt 
and  dredge  flour  over  them.  Roast  about  15  minutes  in  a  quick 
fire.  Raw  oysters  can  be  placed  in  each  one  before  putting  it  in 
the  oven.  Roll  the  oysters  in  bread  crumbs.  Rub  butter  and  pep- 
per over  them. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRIED  SNIPES  AND  PLOVERS.— These  two  birds  are 
very  often  prepared  and  cooked  without  being  drawn,  the  crop 
only  is  taken  out,  through  a  small  slit  in  the  skin  on  the  back  of 
the  neck.  The  heads  of  these  birds  are  left  on.  After  they  are 
cleaned,  skin  the  head  and  tie  it  to  the  body  with  a  string  which 
you  remove  before  serving.  The  time  of  cooking  is  determined 
by  the  size  of  the  bird' — the  smallest  taking  from  10  to  15  minutes. 
Clean  the  birds  and  wipe  them  dry;  tie  the  legs  close  to  the  body, 
skin  the  head,  after  picking  the  feathers  oflf  as  near  the  head  asr 
possible,  tie  the  beak  of  each  bird  under  one  of  its  wings,  tying 
also  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  around  each  breast.  Place  the  birds  in 
a  frying  basket,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  hot  fat  until  it  is  a  delicate 
brown.  This  should  not  take  over  5  minutes  if  the  fat  is  as  hot 
as  it  should  be.  Season,  and  serve  on  toast. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Jefferson, 
505  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


310  FOWL 

ROAST  SNIPE.— Clean  and  truss,  but  do  not  stuff  the  birds, 
and  lay  them  in  rows  in  a  baking-pan;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  baste 
well  with  butter  and  water.  When  they  begin  to  brown,  which 
should  be  in  10  minutes,  cut  as  many  slices  of  bread  as  there  arei 
birds,  round  the  slices,  cutting  off  the  crusts,  toast  them  quickly, 
and  butter  lightly,  while  hot.  Slip  a  slice  of  toast  under  each  bird 
in  the  baking-pan,  and  bake  the  remaining  5  minutes,  basting  the 
birds  with  melted  butter.  Place  them  on  the  platter,  with  the 
toast. under  them;  then  thicken  w'hat  gravy  there  may  be  in  the 
pan,  adding  a  little  water  to  it,  and  pour  it  over  the  snipe  anid 
toast.  The  largest  snipe  wil  not  require  more  than  20  minutes' 
cooking,  if  the  oven  is  hot  enough. — Mrs.  Ohas.  L.  Rosser,  26  S. 
Aberdeen  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SNOW  BIRDS.— Clean  1  doz.  thoroughly.  Put  a  couple  of 
oysters  in  each,  and  lay  them  in  a  yellow-ware  dish,  add  2  oz.  of 
boiled  salt  pork,  and  3  sliced  raw  potatoes.  Add  1  pt.  of  oyster 
juice,  an  oz,  of  blitter,  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  crust  over  the  dish, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

BROILED  SQUABS.— Split  the  squabs  through  the  back  and 
breast,  brush  with  melted  butter,  or  lay  a  slice  of  bacon  on  each! 
half  and  set  into  a  hot  oven  10  minutes.  If  not  browned  enough, 
finish  the  cooking  over  clear  coals.  Serve  on  slices  of  toast  moist- 
ened with  dripping  in  the  pan. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn,  Wilmette, 
111. 

SQUAB  POT-PIE.— Cut  3  oz.  of  salt  pork  into  dice  and  di- 
vide 6  wild  squabs  into  pieces  at  the  joints,  removing  the  skin. 
Cut  4  potatoes  into  small  squares  and  make  1  doz.  small  doitgh 
balls.  Put  the  pork,  squabs  and  potatoes  into  a  deep  baking-dish 
and  add  the  dough  balls;  season  with  salt,  white  pepper,  and  a 
dash  of  mace  or  nutmeg  add  enough  hot  water  to  cover,  the  in- 
gredients, cover  with  a  rich  pie  crust,  and  bake  ^  hr.  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.— Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennett,  Bartlett,  111. 

WILD  TURKEY.— Wild  turkey  must  be  drawn,  singed  and 
cleaned  precisely  the  same  as  chicken  or  tame  turkey.  Wipe  in- 
side and  out  with  a  damp  cloth.  Truss  the  turkey  into  shape  at 
once;  dtist  carefully  with  pepper,  put  a  teaspoon  of  salt  in  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  and  pour  in  Yz  cup  of  boiling  water;    Place  in  a 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         311 

very  hot  oven  until  thoroughly  browned.  Cool  the  oven  and 
roast  slowly  15  minutes  to  every  pound.  Wild  turkeys  are  much 
better  without  stuffing.  Serve  with  them  cranberry  sauce,  boiled 
onions  with  cream  sauce,  sweet  or  white  potato  croquettes,  and 
celery. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Bensen,  111. 

WOODCOCK. — To  prepare  the  woodcock,  wash,  remove  the 
crops,  and  draw  or  not,  as  preferred.  Fold  the  legs  and  wings 
close  to  the  body  and  bend  the  head  forward  so  that  the  long  bill 
may  be  run,  skewerwise,  through  the  legs  and  wings,  thus  hold- 
ing them  in  place.  Put  2  slices  of  toast  in  the  bottom  of  a  large, 
deep  fireproof  soup-plate,  and  place  two  birds,  side  by  side,  upon 
this;  put  a  lump  of  butter  upon  each,  and  invert  a  large  saucer  or 
small  plate  over  them.  Over  the  opening  left  about  the  edge  of 
the  saucer,  lay  a  strip  of  pastry,  that  all  air  may  be  excluded. 
Set  in  the  oven  for  7  minutes,  then  make  an  incision  in  the  pastry, 
and  allow  the  steaim  to  escape.  Cover  this  small  hole  with  a  bit 
of  fres'h  pastry,  return  the  birds  to  the  oven  and  cook  for  half  an 
hr.  Pour  melted  butter  over  the  woodcock,  serve  on  toast  on 
which  they  were  cooked,  and  garnish  with  strips  of  the  brown 
pastry.^^Mrs.  Anna  Rogers,  3417  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BARDED  WOODCOCK.— Reniove  the  crop,  skin  the  head 
and  take  out  the  eyes;  scald  the  feet  and  legs,  and  skin  them  a& 
high  as  the  first  joint.  Draw  the  bird,  if  preferred.  Sprinkle  well 
with  salt,  and  drawing  the  head  down  to  the  feet,  wrap  the  bird  in 
a  thin  slice  of  clear  salt  pork;  run  a  skewer  through  to  keep  the 
pork,  head  and  feet  in  position,  and  run  from  3  to  6  birds  on  eachi 
skewer.  Rub  soft  butter  over  the  parts  not  covered  by  the  pork 
and  dredge  all  with  flour.  Place  toasted  bread  under  each  bird  in 
the  baking-pan,  rest  the  ends  of  the  skewers  on  the  edges  of  the 
pan,  place  the  latter  in  a  very  hot  oven,  and  cook  15  to  20  minutes, 
according  to  the  oven.  Slip  each  bird  on  its  slice  of  toast,  and' 
serve  very  hot,  pouring  the  gravy  from  the  pan  over  all.  Any 
small  birds  may  be  cooked  in  this  way. — Mrs.  Allan  George,  Park 
Ridge,  111. 

ROASTED  WOODCOCK.— Skin  the  head  and  neck  of  the 
bird,  pluck  the  feathers  and  truss  it  by  bringing  the  beak  of  the 
bird  under  the  wing,  and  fastening  the  pinion  to  the  thigh.  Put  a 
piece  of  bread  under  each  bird  to  catch  the  drippings,  baste  with 


312  FOWL 

butter,  dredge  with  flour,  and  roast  15  to  20  minutes  over  a  sharp 
fire.  When  done,  cut  the  bread  in  diamond-shapes,  each  piece 
large  enough  to  stand  one  bird  on,  arrange  on  a  platter  and  serve 
with  gravy  enough  to  moisten  the  bread.  Garnish  with  Slices  of 
lemon.  Snipe  are  similar  to  woodcock  and  may  be  served  in  the 
same  manner,  but  will  require  less  time  to  roast. — Mrs.  John  Mur- 
ray, Jr.,  1414  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


MEATS 

GRAVY — Take  a  teaspoon  of  butter  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour 
and  let  it  get  yellow  in  the  pan,  but  not  brown,  turn  this  into  the 
dripping  from  any  meat,  add  potato  water  to  make  the  amount  of 
gravy  desired,  and  stir  until  smooth.  This  gives  a  golden  colored 
gravy. — Mrs.  F.  E.  Clower,  1103  S.  7th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BROWN  FLOUR  FOR  GRAVIES.— Put  some  sifted  flour, 
dry,  into  a  baking  tin,  and  bake  deep  brown  in  the  oven.  For  a  cup 
of  liquid  use  1  tablespoon  of  flour.  Make  smooth  with  water,  same 
as  raw  flour. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  III. 

BOILING  MEAT.— All  meats,  unless  very  salty,  should  be 
plunged  into  boiling  water  and  kept  at  a  boiling  point  for  10  or  15 
minutes.  This  hardens  the  albumen  and  keeps  in  the  juices.  Then 
set  the  kettle  back  and  simmer  gently.  It  should  be  kept  at  a  point 
where  it  bubbles,  hard  boiling  renders  it  tough  and  stringy.  Great 
care  should  be  taken  to  remove  all  scum  that  arises  when  meat  be- 
gins to  boil.  White  meats,  like  mutton  and  poultry,  are  improved 
in  appearance  by  pinning  in  a  coarse  cotton  cloth  that  has  previus- 
ly  been  floured.  This  makes  them  much  more  juicy.  Some  always 
boil  rice  with  meats. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, III. 

BEEF 

BEEF  BALLS. — Chop  as  mudh  raw  (beef  as  is  needed,  with 
some  suet;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  mix  in  enough  flour  to 
mould  into  balls,  and  fry  in  hot  drippings  to  a  nice  brown  on  both 
sides.  Veal,  pork,  mutton,  lamb  or  any  other  fresh  meat  may  he 
used  instead  of  beef.— Mrs.  A.  C.  Christian,  21  W.  37th  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

BRAISED  BEEF.— Put  into  an  earthen  jar  1  cup  of  butter,  4 
lbs.  of  thick  beef,  cut  after  the  round  has  been  cut.  Place  4  or  5 
sliced  onions  on  top  of  meat  and  pour  a  can  of  tomatoes  over  all. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.     Cover  the  jar,  place  in  oven,  and 

313 


314  MEATS 

cook  4  or  5  hrs.  When  cooked,  drain  the  vegetables  and  make  a 
thick  gravy  with  the  juice.  Put  the  meat  on  a  platter,  and  pour 
gravy  around  it. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

CHILI  CON  CARNE.— Mince  an  onion  and  brown  in  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  add  \]/2  lbs.  round  steak,  cut  in  1-inch  cubes,  and 
enough  hot  water  to  half  cover.  Season  with  a  little  paprika. 
Cover,  and  cook  slowly  for  2  hrs.,  adding  water,  when  needed. 
One-half  hour  before  serving,  add  1  can  of  red  kidney  beans. — Jane 
Parker,  803  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CHIPPED  BEEF. — Let  a  large  piece  of  lean  beef  freeze  in 
■winter.  Then  shave  off  very  thin  with  a  sharp  knife,  put  in  frying- 
pan  with  a  very  little  water  and  let  simmer  for  1  hr.  on  'back  of 
stove.  Add  2  tablespoons  of  buter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
let  cook  for  10  minutes  more. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

CREAMED  DRIED  BEEF.— 1  tablespoon  butter,  1  onion, 
chopped  fine,  and  cooked  in  the  butter,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
rub  smooth,  brown  if  desired;  add  1  pt.  of  sweet  milk  and  pour 
over  the  dried  beef.  This  makes  the  beef  go  further. — Mrs.  Ida 
Butler,  907  N.  Franklin  St.,  Chicago,  111.  * 

DRIED  BEEF  AND  EGGS.— Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  walnut  in  the  chafing-dish.  Lay  in  several  slices  of  chipped  beef 
and  cover  3  minutes.  When  the  beef  is  hot  stir  in  3  well-beaten 
eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  milk,  pepper,  and  a  little  salt,  stirring  all  the 
time  from  the  bottom. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

HUNGARIAN  GOULASH.— Brown  2  lbs.  of  beef  shoulder. 
^  cut  very  fine,  in  a  tablespoon  of  lard  or  butter,  season  with  salt 
and  red  pepper;  add  2  medium-sized  onions,  and  cover  with  cold 
water.  Cook  slowly  for  2  hrs.,  adding  water  when  needed.  One- 
half  hr.  before  serving  add  1  cup  tomatoes.  ^  cup  sour  milk,  or 
y2  cup  cream.  Thicken  with  flour. — Mrs.  S.  Mensior,  1109  S.  7th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BEEF  LOAF.— Run  1^  lb5.  beef,  1  lb.  pork,  1  lb.  veal,  and  5^ 

lb.  salt  pork  through  a  meat  grinder,  or  use  a  proportionate  quan- 
tity of  one  or  more  kinds  of  left-over  meat,  ground  or  chopped 
fine.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  onion;  add  a  little  butter,  1 
beaten  tg^,  6  or  8  crackers  (crumb),  and  1  cup  of  milk.     Stir  up 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         31S 

and  ttlould  into  a  loaf.     Bake   in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.   C.   K. 
Wurtz,  216  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CREOLE  BEEF  LOAF.— Grind  together'  20  cents  worth 
round  steak  and  5  cents  worth  fresh  pork  with  1  small  onion,  a  little 
celery  salt,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  with  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  toast- 
ed bread  crumbs,  1  beaten  egg,  heaping  teaspoon  butter.  Form 
into  loaf,  put  into  hot  oven  for  10  minutes,  cover  with  1  part  sea- 
soned tomatoes  or  chili  sauce,  bake  Ij^  hrs.,  basting  often,  and 
keeping  tomatoes  heaped  on  top. — Mrs.  N.  Williams,  4548  Prairie 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

MOCK  DUCK.— 2  lbs.  beef  steak.  Put  in  roasting-pan  and 
fill  with  dressing  made  as  follows ij^  a  loaf  of  bread,  pulled  very 
fine,  1  large  onion,  chopped  fine,  1  large  teaspoon  poultry  dress- 
ing, butter  size  of  an  egg.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  to  taste. 
Roll  beef  steak  all  around  dressing,  and  fasten,  so  that  it  will  not 
unroll,  and  roast  in  oven  about  1  hr. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Caruthers,  3306 
Vernon  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BEEF  PUDDING.— Stew  1  lb.  fat  steak  until  tender,  so  that 
it  may  be  picked  apart  with  a  fork,  place  in  baking-dish  with  a 
large  cup  of  the  'liquor,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  or  beef 
drippings.  Make  a  batter  of  1  egg,  Yz  pt.  of  buttermilk,  a  scant 
teasoon  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.  Pour  this  over  the  beef  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven.  Turn  out  on  a  meat  dish,  cut  in  squares,  and  pour  over  it 
a  pt.  of  gravy  made  from  the  stock  in  which  the  beef  was  boiled. — 
Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BEEF  PIE  WITH  POTATO  CRUST.— Put  all  the  small 
pieces  of  meat,  also  the  left-over  gravy,  so  as  to  half  fill  a  baking- 
pan.  Add  a  lump  of  butter,  a  bit  of  sliced  onion,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  enough  water  to  make  plenty  of  gravy.  Put  over  the  fire, 
thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour;  cover  it  up  and  let  stew  gen- 
tly. Boil  sufficient  potatoes  to  fill  up  the  baking-dish,  mash 
smooth  and  beat  light  with  milk  and  butter.  Place  on  top  of  the 
meat,  brush  it  over  "with  an  egg,  place  the  dish  in  the  oven,  let  it 
become  brown. — Mrs.   C.  J.   Jeffries,   Winnetka,   111. 

TO  ROAST  BEEF.— Place  the  clean-cut  side  of  the  meat 
upon  a  smoking  hot  pan,  which  must  be  over  a  hot  fire.     Press  it 


316  MEATS 

close  to  the  pan,  until  seared  and  slightly  browned.  Reverse, 
and  let  the  opposite  side  become  similarly  seared  and  browned. 
Then  put  it  at  once,  with  plenty  of  water,  into  the  hot  oven,  the 
heat  of  which  should  be  firm  and  steady,  but  not  too  intense,  and 
leave  it  undisturbed  20  minutes  to  the  lb.;  if  it  is  to  be  rare,  deduct 
Yz  hr,  from  the  aggregate  time,  on  account  of  searing.  If  the 
oven  is  not  too  hot,  the  beef  requires  no  basting  and  is  better 
without  it.  There  should  be  just  a  gentle  sputtering  in  the  pan. 
If  on  opening  the  door  the  sputtering  is  not  perceptible,  more 
heat  is  required;  but  if  in  addition  to  sputtering  any  smoke  is 
perceptible,  the  heat  is  too  intense.  If  cooked  at  the  proper  tem- 
perature, there  will  :be  a  thin  coating  of  brown  jelly  in  the  pan 
where  the  meat  rested,  which,  by  the  addition  of  stock  or  water, 
will  make  a  delicious  gravy.  Set  a  pan  of  water  in  the  oven.  Do 
not  wash  a  roast  of  beef.  If  soiled,  clean  with  a  cloth;  if  acci- 
dentally wet,  dry  before  searing,  as  salt  and  water  have  a  ten- 
dency to  toughen  and  extract  the  juice  of  meat. — Mrs.  John  Ward, 
6639  Union  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

ROAST     BEEF     AND     YORKSHIRE     PUDDING.— Place 

grate  in  roasting-pan,  put  roast  in  this,  dredge  meat  with  flour 
and  salt,  and  when  the  flour  is  browned,  put  in  Yz  pt.  hot  water; 
watch  carefully  that  the  water  does  not  boil  away  and  the  gravy 
become  burned;  add  little  water  at  a  time,  and  baste  often.  The 
roast  should  not  be  too  lean.  1^  pts.  milk,  6  large  tablespoons 
flour,  3  eggs,  1  saltspoon  salt. 

Mode. — Put  the  flour  into  a  basin  with  the  salt,  and  stir  to 
this  enough  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten, 
beat  the  mixture  for  a  few  minutes,  and  pour  into  a  shallow  tin 
well,  ru'b'bed  with  beef  dripping,  bake  for  an  hr,,  then  for  another 
Yz  hr.  place  it  under  the  meat  to  catch  a  little  of  the  gravy.  Place 
2  clean,  hardwood  sticks  across  the  pudding  tin,  and  place  the 
roast  meat  on  the  sticks,  and  let  it  drip  on  the  pudding  for  ^  an 
hr.,  or  put  the  batter  in  the  same  tin  the  roast  meat  is  in,  only 
pour  out  nearly  all  of  the  dripping.  Cut  the  pudding  into  small 
square  pieces  to  serve  hot  with  the  meat  and  gravy.  Time  1^ 
hrs.,  enough  for  6  or  7  people. — Jane  Parker,  803  S.  2nd  Ave., 
Maywood,  111.  i 

ROAST  BEEF  AND  POTATOES  IN  FIRELESS  COOK- 
ER.— Peel  potatoes  and  place  in  bottom  of  kettle,   sprinkle  with 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  t'J 

salt  and  pepper.  Put  roast  on  top  with  no  water,  and  the  juices  of 
the  meat  comes  out  and  makes  rich  gravy  and  rich,  delicious  pota- 
toes.— Mrs.  G.  E.  Hamilton,  508  S.  4th  Ave.,  May  wood,  111. 

RIB  ROAST.— Only  the  first  five  ribs  of  the  fore-quarter  are 
suitable  for  roasting.  Remove  the  "eye"  of  tender  meat,  separate 
the  outside  layer  of  fat  from  the  strip  of  tough,  lean  meat  under- 
neath, and  tie  the  fat  about  the  eye  securely,  passing  the  cord 
around  several  times.  Cook  and  serve  as  a  rolled  roast.  Pass 
the  tough  meat  through  a  chopper  several  times,  season  and 
shape. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Waack,  5435  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

POT  ROAST.— Take  4  lbs.  of  stewing  beef,  a  small  piece  of 
suet,  pat  in  pot  and  brown,  then  cover  with  water  and  let  come  to  a 
boil,  then  keep  at  a  slow  simmer  for  4  hrs.  While  stewing,  add  3 
medium  carrots  (put  through  the  chopper),  a  large  onion,  whole 
allspice,  pepper  and  salt  to  flavor;  let  stew  down  until  there  is 
just  enough  liquid  for  gravy.  Or,  instead  of  carrots,  put  in  half 
a  can  of  tomatoes. — Mrs.  John  Hansen,  1408  S.  8th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

BEEF  SAUSAGES.-^Chop  3  lbs.  of  raw  beef  and  1  lb.  of  beef 
suet  very  fine;  add  1  pt.  of  cold  water,  1^/^  tablespoons  of  salt.  1/5 
of  a  teaspoon  of  cayenne,  3^  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  and  1 
full  teaspoon  of  sage,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Make  into  little  pats, 
dredge  with  flour  and  fry  6  minutes.  Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Geo. 
Redmonds,  424  E.  39th   St.,  Chicago,   111. 

HOW  TO  COOK  BEEFSTEAK.— Sprinkle  a  little  pepper 
on  one  side,  roll  it  in  flour;  use  a  dish  that  can  be  covered  tight, 
first  heating  it,  then  pour  on  boiling  water,  cover  tight,  and  set  it 
where  it -will  cook  slowly;  it  will  take  from  ^  to  2  hrs.  It  may 
be  necessary  to  add  water  to  keep  it  covered;  salt  just  before  tak- 
ing out  of  the  dish,  then  add  butter,  and  it  will  taste  much  like 
chicken. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  May  wood,  111. 

BROILED     BEEFSTEAK    WITH     MEXICAN    SAUCE.— 

Broil  11/2  lbs.  of  thick  tend'erloin  steak  over  a  brisk  fire  until  juice 
begins  to  run.  Pour  the  following  sauce  over,  and  serve  at  once: 
Mexican  Sauce. — Fry  1  sliced  onion  a  delicate  brown  in  a 
heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  2  large  peeled  and  sliced  toma- 
toes, 1  red  and  1  green  pepper  (not  too  large),  chopped  fine,  leav- 


318  MEATS 

ing  in  the  seeds.  Let  simmer  until  tender,  add  1  clove  of  garlic, 
cut  fine,  Yz  teaspoon  of  celery  salt,  and  1  teaspoon  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

FLANK  STEAK.— Em>bedded  in  fat  below  the  sirloin  is  a 
thin  strip  of  lean  meat  weighing  about  2  lbs.,  called  flank  steak. 
This  sells  for  about  25  cents.  It  is  comparatively  juicy,  but  lack- 
ing in  flavor.  The  dealer  pulls  off  the  fat  and  thin  skin  under- 
neath, and  then  scores  the  outside  upon  both  sides  diagonan3\ 
Broil  about  6  minutes.  Serve  with  a  brown  or  tomato  sauce. 
This  steak  is  often  spread  with  highly  seasoned  bread  dressing, 
then  rolled  up  tightly  and  braised  with  vegetables  and  a  small 
nuantity  of  liquid  in  a  casserole. — Mrs.  E.  Brown,  14  W.  Ohio  St., 
Chicago,  111, 

FRIED  TOUGH  STEAK.— Pound  the  st^ak.  break  the  white 
of  an  egg  into  a  dish,  roll  several  crackers,  dip  the  steak  first  in 
the  ^%^,  then  in  the  cracker  crumbs.  Have  butter  hot  in  'onn 
when  you  put  meat  in,  add  salt,  and  fry  10  minutes  on  each  side, 
having  a  light  brown  when  vou  turn,  and  turn  once  only, — Mrs. 
Emil  Dillrich.  701  Wells  St„  Chicago,  111. 

HAMBURG  STEAK.- 2  lbs.  of  beef.  V-  teasr)oon  oenoer.  1  tea- 
snoon  s?1t.  Vz  cud  boiling  water.  1  small  onion,  chopped  fine.  1  ege, 
V2  cu-n  flour,  and  Vz  cup  drippings:  chop  meat  fine,  add  season- 
ings, beat  eeg,  mix  it  with  meat,  shaoe  in  round  cakes  about  1 
inch  thick,  dredgre  with  flour  and  fry  in  drioping:  when  browned 
add  V-y  cup  of  boiling-  w^ter,  cover  and  simmer  for  30  minutes. — ■ 
Mrs.  E.  J.  Dixon.  3647  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

STEAK  AND  ONIONS.— Cut  1  lb.  round  steak  in  small 
pieces,  cover  with  cold  water.  While  cookine.  fry  6  medium- 
sized  onions  to  a  nice  brown  and  add  to  the  steak.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepoer  to  taste.  Cook  1  hr.  .  Thicken  with  flour:  this 
gives  a  rich  brown  gravv.  the  secret  of  which  is  the  frying  of  t^e 
onions. — ^Mrs.  Joseph  Wylegalla,  1415  S.  2nd  Ave.,  May\vood.  Tit. 

BEEFSTEAK  PIE.— 2l^  lbs.  beefsteak,  a  little  oepper.  salt 
and  cavenne.  a  little  water  or  p^ravy.  1  tablespoon  Worcester.=;hire. 
volk  of  1  esrg.  ^  lb.  paste.  Cut  steak  into  sni-'ll  pieces  with  a 
little  fat.  dip  each  piece  in  flour,  place  in  pie  dish  season  each 
layer   with   pepper,    salt   and   cayenne;    fill    dish    sufficiently   with 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  319 

slices  of  steak  to  raise  crust  in  middle.  Half  fill  dish  with  water 
or  gravy  left  from  roast  and  1  tablespoon  sauce;  put  border  paste 
around,  wet  edge  of  pie  dish;  moisten  it  and  lay  crust  over  it;  cut 
paste  even  with  pie  dish  all  around,  ornament  with  leaves  of 
paste;  and  brush  over  with  beaten  yolk  of  egg;  make  hole  with 
knife  in  top  and  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Frank  E.  Cox,  38()5 
Wentworth  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

HOW  TO  BROIL  A  PORTERHOUSE  STEAK.— Have 
steak  cut  1  inch  thick,  cut  off  the  tail  ends  of  2  medium-sized 
steaks,  trim  off  all  excess  fat,  leaving  the  portions  containing  the 
T-Bone  for  broiling,  place  on  broiler  and  broil  over  hot  coals  for 
7  minutes,  then  turn  and  broil  the  other  side;  if  no  broiler  is  at 
hand,  heat  thick  frying-pan  very  hot,  smear  with  some  of  the  fat 
and  put  steak  in,  turning  the  same  as  when  broiler  is  used;  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper;  when  cooked  put  on  hot  platter,  put- 
ting bits  of  butter  over  meat;  add  a  very  little  water  to  pan,  and 
put  in  platter,  but  do  not  pour  it  over  meat,  as  that  toughens  it, 
and  serve  a  once. — Mrs.  Chas.  Becker,  38  E.  47th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

GERMAN  ROUND  STEAK.— In  a  baking-dish  arrange  1^ 
lbs.  of  pounded  round  steak  and  %  lb.  of  lean  salt  pork,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  in  layers.  Place  1  pt.  of  onions  on  top,  and  bake 
slowly.  Will  serve  5. — ^Jane  Parker,  803  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

ROUND  STEAK  ROLL.— Make  a  dressing  of  stale  brea<i> 
seasoned  with  onion  and  sage  to  taste,  spread  over  round  steak, 
roll  up,  tie  with  string,  and  bake.  If  covered  baking-dish  is  not 
used,  should  be  tasted  often.  Round  steak  to  be  juicy  must  be 
cooked  slowly. — Jane  Parker,  803  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cut  round  steak  into  3-inch  squares.  Make 
a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  chopped  onions,  a  sprinkling  of  summer 
savory,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  add  bits  of  butter  and  roll  up, 
tie  with  string,  and  fry  15  minutes.  Pour  a  cup  of  cold  water  over 
and  boil  or  "bake  1  hr. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Whitney,  1760  Edgewater  Place, 
Chicago,  111. 

SMOTHERED  BEEF  STEAK.— Use  several  thin  slices  from 
the  top  of  the  round,  or  1  large,  thin  steak.     Lay  smoothly  and 


320  MEATS 

dry  vvith  a  cloth.  Now  make  the  following  stuffing:-!  cup  of  fine 
bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  J/2  teaspoon  salt;  pepper  to 
taste;  Y^  teaspoon  each  of  sage  and  summer  savory,  and  enough 
milk  to  moisten  all  into  a  stiff  mixture.  Spread  over  the  meat, 
roll  the  latter  carefully,  and  secure  it  and  the  ends  well  with  tape 
or  ordinary  cord.  Next  fry  thin  slices  of  pork  in  a  saucepan  or 
kettle;  remove  the  pork  when  the  fat  is  well  fried  out  of  it  and 
put  in  the  beef  rolls,  cook  until  a  rich  brown  on  all  sides,  and 
then  put  in  J^  pt.  of  water,  and  stew  until  tender.  Serve  with 
the  gravy,  thickened  and  turned  over  the  beef.  Carve  crosswise 
and  in  slices.  If  the  flavor  of  onion  is  liked  a  slice  may  be 
chopped  and  mixed  in  with  the  dressing. — Mrs.  R.  Farley,  3819 
S.  La  Salle  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SPANISH  STEAK.-^Cut  a  sirloin  steak  1  inch  thick,  flour 
well,  and  fry  on  both  sides  in  either  hot  lard  or  butter.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  add  1  can  of  tomatoes,  cook  for  15  or  20 
minutes.  Enough  for  6  people. — Mrs.  Pitt,  240  S.  20th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

STUFFED  BEEFSTEAK.— A  rather  poor  flank  or  round 
steak  may  be  used  for  this.  Pound  well,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  then  spread  with  a  nice  dressing;  pull  out  and  tie  closely 
with  twine;  put  in  a  kettle  a  qt.  of  boiling  water,  boil  slowly  1  hr., 
take  out  and  place  in  a  dripping  pan,  adding  water  in  which  it 
was  boiled,  basting  until  a  nice  'brown,  and  make  gravy  of  the 
drippings.  It  is  delicious  sliced  cold. — Mrs.  Chas.  G.  Clements, 
316  W.  Chicago  Ave.,  Chicago,  111, 

CREOLE  STEW.— Cut  lib.  round  steak  in  cubes,  brown  in 
a  skillet  with  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour  and  1  chopped 
onion.  When  well  browned  pour  in  the  juice  of  1  can  of  toma- 
toes and  enough  iboiling  water  to  cover.  iCook  slowly  lJ/2  hrs. — 
Mrs.  Frederic  Sharp,  700  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

TENDERLOIN  CUTLETS.— Season  the  chopped  meat  with 
salt,  2  or  3  drops  of  tabasco  sauce,  onion  juice  and  a  little  Wor- 
cestershire sauce.  Form  into  cutlet  shapes  about  %  of  an  inch 
thick;  egg  and  bread  crum'b  and  fry  in  deep  fat  about  5  minutes; 
set  the  fat  in  a  cooler  place  after  the  cutlets  are  immersed,  to 
avoid  coloring  too  brown  before  meat  is  cooked.     Serve  around  a 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  321 

support  or  a  sock  of  rice  or  hominy.  Surround  with  slices  of 
potato,  cut  lattice  or  other  fashion,  and  fried  in  deep  fat. — Mrs. 
E,  M.  Fay,  1239  N.  Clark  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

OLD-FASHIONED  BOILED  DINNER  (New  England 
Style), — Procure  an  aitch  bone  or  brisket  of  corned  beef  (or  if 
pork  is  preferred;  a  large  piece  of  salt  pork),  put  into  the  pot 
over  a  brisk  fire  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it;  let  it  come 
lo  a  boil,  then  skim,  in  J^  hr.  set  the  pot  back  on  the 
fire  and  boil  slowly,  until  tender.  About  %  hr.  before  dishing 
skim  the  liquor  free  from  fat;  put  a  portion  of  it  into  another 
kettle  with  1  cabbage,  cleaned  and  cut  in  4  quarters,  Y^  doz. 
peeled  white  turnips  of  medium  size,  cut  in  halves,  and  4  carrots, 
scraped,  and  the  same  num'ber  of  scraped  parsnips,  each  cut  in  4 
pieces;  boil  till  tender.  Put  into  the  kettle  containing  the  meat, 
J/2  hr.  before  serving,  as  many  medium-sized  peeled  pota- 
toes as  desired.  Serve  all  together,  meat  and  vegetables  from  1 
dish.  Boiled  beets,  cooked  separately,  sliced  hot,  with  vinegar 
over  them,  should  also  b^  served  as  a  side  dish.  Cooking  the  cab- 
bage in  another  dish  prevents  them  from  tasting  of  this  vegetable 
when  cold. — Mrs.  J.  Cunningham,  2735  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 

BRAIN 

BRAIN  CROQUETTES.— Calf's,  lamb's  or  pig's  brains 
may  be  used  for  this  dish.  Wash  the  brains  in  cold  water,  put 
them  over  the  fire  in  boiling  water,  cook  for  2  minutes,  drain  and 
iay  in  ice-cold  water  until  cold  and  stifif.  Beat  them  into  a  paste. 
Have  ready  some  thick  drawn  butter  and  beat  into  the  brains  un- 
til the  paste  is  smooth  and  stiflf  enough  to  handle;  add,  then,  flour 
to  stiffen  it  more;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  very 
finely  minced  parsley;  flour  your  hands,  make  the  paste  into  cro- 
quettes; roll  in  t.%^  and  cracker  crumbs;  set  on  the  ice  for  2  hrs. 
or  more,  and  fry  in  deep  boiling  cottolene  or  other  fat.  Drain, 
and  serve.— Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BRAIN   CROQUETTES   FOR    GARNISHING.— Chop    cold 

boiled  brains  and  add  to  them  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Into  each  cup  of  the  mixture  stir  a  ta'ble&poon  of  crumbs,  and 
moisten  all  with  cream      Heat  in  a   double   boiler,  and  when  the 


322  '  MEATS 

boiling  point  is  reached  whip  in  slowly  a  beaten  egg,  and  remove 
the  mixture  from  the  fire.  Turn  upon  a  dish  to  cool  and  stiffen 
before  forming  into  small  croquettes.  Crum'b  these  and  set  on  the 
ice  for  2  hrs.  Fry  in  deep,  'boiling  cottolene  or  other  fat.  Any 
dish  of  liver  or  calf's  head — in  fact  of  veal  in  any  form — is  made 
elegant  by  a  garnish  of  brains,  fried  as  croquettes,  or  in  slices. — 
Mrs.  L.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BRAIN  CUTLETS.— Carefully  wash  the  brains  and  let  them 
stand  in  cold  water  until  they  are  white;  then  parboil  them  15 
minutes,  or  until  they  are  tender;  drain  thoroughly  and  divide 
them  with  a  knife  into  pieces.  Dip  the  pieces  in  flour,  then  roll 
them  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  them  in  butter  or  clarified 
fat.  Serve  hot  with  gravy.  Or  prepare  as  directed,  and  stew 
gently  till  tender,  in  rich  stock.  Or,  boil  them  without  cutting 
them  up,  and  serve  with  appropriate  sauce — ibutter  or  parsley. — 
Mrs.  Ahner  Grant,  Sherman,  III. 

FRIED  BRAIN.— Soak  a  calf's  brain  in  cold  water,  then  wipe 
dry.  Dip  flour  or  beaten  &gg  and  sifted  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry 
on  both  sides  in  butter.  Garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  hot. — 
Mrs.  John  Hanson,  1408  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BRAIN  FRITTERS.— Blanch  the  <brains  by  boiling  them  in 
salted  water  for  10  minutes.  Throw  into  ice-cold  water  and  leave 
for  J4  hr.  When  cold,  mash  to  a  paste  with  a  wooden  spoon. 
Stir  into  them  2  eggs,  beaten  light,  a  tablespoon  of  melted  'butter, 
J/2  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  fritter  batter. 
Beat  hard  for  3  minutes,  and  drop  this  mixture  into  deep,  boiling 
cottolene  or  other  fat.  When  golden  brown  in  color,  drain  free 
of  grease  in  a  hot  colander.  Serve  very  hot. — Mrs.  O.  E.  Jeffer- 
son, 505  S.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CALF'S  BRAINS  STEWED.— Heat  a  great  spoon  of  butter 
in  the  frying-pan  and  when  hot,  stir  in  a  tablespoon  of  f^our.  Add 
a  gill  of  cream  with  salt  and  pepper,  chopped  parsley,  and  a  tea-* 
spoon  of  kitchen  bouquet.  Put  a  pinch  of  soda  into  the  cream. 
When  heated,  put  in  the  brains,  which  have  been  previously 
blanched,  and  cut  into  large  dice.  Cook  10  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly, and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  323 

HEARTS 

BAKED  HEARTS.— Select  small  hearts;  clean  thoroughly  in- 
side and  out.  Fill  with  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with 
onion,  parsley,  celery  or  other  flavor.  Dust  with  salt  and  pepper, 
lay  in  a  baking-pan  and  put  in  the  pan  enough  hot  water  to  half- 
cover  the  hearts-.  Bake  until  tender,  basting  frequently.  A  large 
heart  should  be  parboiled  before  baking. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BOILED  BEEF'S  HEART.— Wash  the  heart  and  soak  for  Yz 
an  hr.  in  cold,  salted  water;  wipe  and  stufif  the  ventricles  with  a 
forcemeat  of  bread  crumbs  and  chopped  harh  or  salt  pork,  minced 
fine,  and  well  seasoned.  Sew  up  in  cheesecloth  fitted  to  the  heart, 
and  bring  slowly  to  a  boil  in  salted  water,  to  which  a  tablespoon 
of  vinegar  has  been  added.  Boil  gently  2  ihrs.,  turning  the  heart 
several  times.  Remove  the  cloth  and  serve.  The  heart  is  made 
more  savory  if  it  is  boiled  in  weak  stock  instead  of  water. — Mrs. 
S.  J.  Walsh,  4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BRAIZED  LAMB  HEARTS.— Wipe  each,  cut  of¥  extra  fat 
and  take  out  partition  walls.  Stuff  with  preferred  dressing,  tie 
up  and  sew.  Make  Yz  cup  brown  sauce  in  dish  in  which  heart  was 
seared.  Put  in  double  roasting-pan  and  cook  in  Aladdin  or  slow 
oven  3  to  5  hrs.  Season  with  Worcestershire  or  tomato  sauce,  and 
serve. — Mrs.  S.  Smith,  4543  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ROAST  HEART. — Parboil  the  heart  to  remove  strong  taste 
and  stuff  with  ordinary  meat  or  poultry  dressing,  or  leave  plain, 
as  preferred.  Lard  it  with  strips  of  salt  pork,  lay  the  heart  upon 
a  bed  of  minced  onion  and  tomatoes  and  pour  in  a  little  hot  water. 
Roast  until  tender,  and  rub  the  gravy  through  a  colander,  thicken 
with  browned  flour,  season  to  taste,  and  pour  over  the  heart,  on  a 
hot  dish.     Mrs.  John  Ward,  6639  Union  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BEEF;'S  heart  STEWED.-X:ut  a  washed  heart  into  dice 
Yz  inch,^  long;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  water  enough  to  cover. 
Skim.  When  nearly  done  add  a  sliced  onion,  a  stalk  of  cel- 
ery, chopped  fine,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  piece  of  butter.  Stew  un- 
til the  meat  is  very  tender.  Stir  up  1  tablespoon  of  flour  in  a  little 
water  and  thicken  the  whole.  Boil  up,  and  serve. — Mrs.  John 
Ward,  6639  Union  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


324  MEATS 

STUFFED  HEARTS.— Boil  calves'  hearts  until  tender;  scoop 
out  the  centers  and  fill  with  sausages.  Make  a  gravy  from  the 
stock,  tomato  juice,  1  onion,  and  a  little  flour.  Pour  over  the 
hearts,  and  bake  ^  hr. — Mrs.  Frederic  Sharp,  700  S.  3rd  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  III. 

KIDNEYS 

VEAL  KIDNEYS  A  LA  CANFIELD.— Trim  kidneys,  cook 
in  brown  stock  10  minutes,  drain  and  cut  in  slices.  Arrange  alter- 
nate slices  of  kidnej"^  and  thinlj-  sliced  bacon  on  skewers  with  a 
fresh  mushroom  cap  at  either  end  of  each  skewer.  Broil  until 
bacon  is  crisp,  and  arrange  on  pieces  of  toast.  Pour  over  sauce 
made  from  stock  in  which  kidneys  were  cooked,  seasoned  with  salt, 
cayenne,  and  Madeira  wine. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn,  Wilmette,  111. 

FRIED  KIDNEYS.— Cut  three  pairs  of  lam'bs'  kidneys  into 
halves.  Fry  8  thin  slices  of  bacon  until  done;  remove  from  the 
lire  and  keep  hot  while  you  fry  the  half  kidneys  in  -the  bacon 
fat.  Cook  slowly  for  10  minutes,  turning  often.  Remove  the  kid- 
neys and  keep  hot  with  bacon  while  stirring  a  teaspoon  of  Worces^ 
tershirc  sauce  and  the  same  quantity  of  catsup  into  the  gravy  left 
in  the  pan.  Put  crustless  sli<:es  of  toasted  bread  on  a  platter,  lay 
the  kidneys  on  these,  pour  the  gravy  over  them  and  dispose  the 
crisp  slices  of  bacon  about  the  edge  of  the  platter. — Mrs.  L.  C. 
Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

DEVILED  VEAL  KIDNEYS.— Split  3  veal  kidneys  in  two. 
lengthwise  and  remove  all  the  fibrous  parts.  Spread  both  sides 
with  a  thin  layer  of  made  mustard  and  a  very  little  red  pepper,  roll 
in  bread  crumbs,  add  a  little  melted  butter  to  both  sides,  and  brown 
over  a  slow  fire;  serve  immediately. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Wheel- 
ing, 111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cut  veal  or  lamb  kidneys  into  thin  slices, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  in  hot  bacon  dripping. — Mrs. 
John  Murray,  Jr.,  1414  S.  8th  Ave.,  'Maywood,  111. 

KIDNEY  ROLLS.— Mix  ^  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  ^  small 
onion,  finely  chopped,  and  Yz  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsle3\ 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  moisten  with  beaten  t^z-  Spread 
mixture  on  thin  slices  of  bacon,  fasten  around  pieces  of  lambs'  kid- 


COOK  COUNTY  GOOK  BOOK  325< 

ney,  using  skewers.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes. — Mrs.   C.  E. 
Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

KIDNEY  PIE. — Cut  4  kidneys  into  neat  squares  and  stew 
gently  in  weak  stock  for  ^4  an  hr.  Cook  a  ^4  I'b.  of  macaroni  till 
tender,  and  cut  it  into  inch  lengths.  Butter  a  baking-dish  and  put 
in  a  layer  of  macaroni;  over  that  spread  a  layer  of  sliced  kidneys 
seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and  made  mustard.  Sprinkle  over  a 
little  flour,  add  a  layer  of  tomatoes.  Repeat  these  layers  and 
cover  with  fine  bread  crum'bs  when  the  dish  is  filled.  Pour  in  a 
rich  gravy  made  from  the  stock  in  which  the  kidneys  were  stewed; 
put  small  bits  of  'butter  over  the  crumbs  on  top,  and  bake  steadily 
for  1  hr.— Mrs.  C.  E.  Jefferson,  505  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

KIDNEY  STEW.— Wash  and  cut  up  the  kidneys,  parboil  and 
stew  with  carrots,  an  onion,  to  taste,  and  a  little  parsley. — Mrs. 
John  Kansen,  1408  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Boil  kidneys  the  night  before,  until  very 
tender,  turn  meat  and  gravy  into  a  dish  and  cover  next  day,  boil 
a  few  minutes,  thicken  with  flour  and  water;  add  part  of  an  onion, 
chopped  fine,  pepper,  salt,  and  lump  of  butter. — Mrs.  John  Ward, 
6639  Union  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BEEF  OR  VEAL  KIDNEY  STEW.— Cut  out  the  hard,  white 
substance  and  fat  inside  the  kidneys,  wash  well  and  soak  them  3 
or  4  hfs.  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water  as  soon  as  it  becomes 
cloudy.  Set  the  kidneys  upon  the  fire  in  a  granite-pan,  add  enough 
cold  water  to  cover  them,  and  heat  slowly.  When  just  at  the  boil- 
ing point  pour  off  the  hot  water,  and  repeat  3<  times.  Cook  slowly 
for  20  minutes,  if  the  small  kidneys  are  used,  40  minutes  for  larger 
ones,  then  set  away  to  cool.  When  ready  to  prepare,  separate  all 
the  cords  and  veins  from  the  kidneys,  having  only  the  lean  part. 
Place  3  cups  of  chopped  kidneys  in  a  granite-pan,  add  2  bay  leaves, 
2  cups  water,  and  4  slices  of  lemon,  and  stew  gently  for  20  minutes. 
When  ready  to  serve  remove  the  bay  leaves,  add  2  tablespoons 
flour,  ru'bbed  smooth  in  2  teaspoons  of  butter,  season  with  the  salt 
and  pepper,  and  when  thickened  to  the  consistency  of  cream,  serve 
on  a  hot  dish. — Mrs.  S.  J.  Walsh,  4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


326  MEATS 

LAMB 

DELICIOUS  FLAVOR  TO  LAMB.— Put  in  the  water  in 
which  the  lamb  is  boiled  some  whole  cloves  and  stick  of  cinnamon; 
to  one  leg  of  lamb  put  a  small  handful  of  cloves  and  2  long  sticks 
of  cinnamon;  this  gives  a  delicious  flavor  to  the  cold  lamb.  In 
roasting  Iamb,  boil  cinnamon  in  water  and  baste  the  meat. — Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  LAMB. — Boil  a  piece  of  lamb  until  tender.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and'  place  on  a  hot  dish,  heat  some  vinegar  in  a  little 
of  the  liquor,  thicken  slightly,  and  pour  over  the  lamb;  mint  may 
be  added,  if  desired,  and  the  sauce  may  be  made  with  clear  water 
instead  of  the  broth;  in  that  case  it  is  not  thickened. — ^Mrs.  A.  O. 
Forde,  3423  Pierce  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  LAMB  AND  CABBAGE.— Cut  lamb  into  small 
pieces  the  right  size  for  serving,  and  put  into  a  kettle  with  a  head 
of  cabbage,  chopped  fine,  or  quartered.  Boil  until  tender,  and 
serve  plain  or  with  mint  sauce  or  vinegar  alone. — Mrs.  A.  O. 
Forde,  3423  Pierce  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BROILED  BREAST  OF  LAMB.— Lay  the  inside  of  the  meat 
toward  the  fire  first  and  broil  very  moderately,  turning  the  meat 
often.  When  done,  butter  slightly  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. The  breast  of  lamb  is  sold  in  most  markets  with  the  fore-leg 
attached';  this  should  be  cut  off  before  the  piece  is  broiled. — Mary 
E.  Stark,  3753  Armour  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRENCH  CHOPS — French  chops  are  cut  from  the  ribs  and 

trimmed  by  the  b^utcher,  who  removes  all  the  fat  and  scrapes  the 
bones  clean  for  a  little  distance  from  the  end.  Broil  over  a  quick 
fire,  adding  salt,  pepper  and  butter  before  serving.  They  may  also 
be  cooked  by  frying,  in  which  case  they  are  first  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  dipped  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  cracker 
crumbs. — Mrs.  Jafril^  Russell,  3519  S.  La  Salle  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

LAMB  CROQUETTES.— Rub  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  table- 
spoons flour  together  until  smooth,  add  1  cup  scalded  milk  or 
cream  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Mix  2  cups  of  finely  chopped 
cooked  lamb,  1  cup  of  boiled  rice,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley, 
1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  seasoning  well  together.     Mix  with 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         327 

the  thickened  milk,  and  cool.  When  cool  form  into  cone-shaped 
croquettes,  cover  with  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  smoking 
hot  fat. — Mrs.  S,  J.  Walsh,  4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRICASEE  OF  MUTTON  OR  LAMB  WITH  PEAS.— Cut  2 

lbs.  of  the  breast  of  mutton  or  lamb  into  square  pieces.  Dredge 
with  salt  and  flour  and  brown  in  butter  or  drippings.  Put  them 
in  a  stew-pan  with  1  onion,  sliced,  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
simmer  until  the  bones  slip  out.  Remove  the  bones,  strain  the 
liquor,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  when  the  liquor  boils  again,  add  the 
meat,  salt  and  pepper,  and  stew  until  nearly  tender;  then  add  1  qt. 
of  peas,  or  1  pt.  or  boiled  macaroni,  cut  into  l4  inch  pieces,  or  1 
pt.  of  asparagus  tips,  and  simmer  15  minutes. — Mrs.  Wm.  Reid, 
1215  La  Salle  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

LAMB'S  FRY. — ^Wipe  dry,  dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  hot  butter  or  other  fat  until  a  nice  brown,  and  serve  hot. — 
Mrs.  John  Hansen,  1408  S.  8th  Ave.,  Chicago,  111., 

HAGGIS. — To  make  haggis,  the  famous  Scotch  dish,  proceed 
as  follows:  Carefully  wash  a  lamb's  head,  heart,  liver,  kidneys 
and  sweetbreads.  Place  the  head,  heart  and  liver  in  a  kettle,  cover 
with  cold  water,  let  them  simmer  for  2  hrs.,  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
When  they  are  cold,  remove  all  fat  and  bones  and  chop  the  meat 
rather  fine.  Parboil  the  sweetbreads,  remove  the  tubes  from  the 
kidneys,  and  cook  until  tender,  parboiling  first,  and  add  the  breads 
to  the  hash,  then  add  1  grated  onion,  2  tablespoons  of  chopped 
parsley,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Heat  the  mixture  over  a 
moderate  part  of  the  fire,  being  careful  not  to  stir  too  much.  When 
ready  to  serve,  add  1  gill  of  good  cream  and  turn  out  the  prepara- 
tion upon  the  center  of  a  platter.  Place  the  sweetbreads,  browned 
in  butter,  on  top,  and  serve  with  Thrown  bread. — Mabel  Sturtevant, 
105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

LAMB  AND  PEAS.— Cut  2  lbs.  of  coarse  lean  lamb  into  dice, 
removing  fat  and  bone.  Brown  sliced  onion  in  2  tablespoons  of 
dripping  or  butter.  Strain  the  fat  back  into  the  pan,  dredge  the 
meat  with  flour,  and  fry  for  3  minutes,  turning  to  sear  both  sides. 
Turn  meat  and  fat  into  a  saucepan,  add  a  cup  of  stock  or  of  butter 
and  water,  cover  closely,  and  stew  for  an  hr.,  or  until  the  lamb  is 
tender.     Put  in  them  a  cup  of  green  peas  with  3  leaves  of  green 


328  MEATS 

mint.  Cover  again,  and  cook  until  the  peas  are  tender,  but  not 
until  they  break.  Have  ready  a  broad  dish^  lined  with  slices  of 
toast,  soaked  in  tomato  sauce.  Take  up  meat  and  peas  in  a  per- 
forated skimmer  and  lay  upon  the  toast.  Keep  hot,  while  you 
thicken  the  gravy  left  in  the  pot,  with.^a  tablespoon  of  butter  rolled 
in  one  of  browned  flour;  season,  boil  up,  and  pour  over  the  stew. 
Let  it  stand  1  minute,  and  serve. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago,  111. 

PRESSED  LAMB.— In  the  morning  put  on  to  boil  either  a 
shoulder  or  a  leg  of  lamb  and  just  enough  water  to  cover  it.  As- 
soon  as  tender  serve  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  then  gently  cook  till 
the  meat  is  very  tender  and  its  juices  nearly  extracted.  Put  into 
a  wooden  bowl,  add  more  seasoning,  if  desired,  and  chop  fine  like 
hash.  Place  in  a  deep  dish,  press  out  (under  a  plate  with  a  flat- 
iron  on  it)  all  the  liquor,  and  set  aside  to  cool  and  harden.  Slice 
thinly  when  cold,  and  serve. — Mrs.  Thomas  Perkins,  3747  S.  Wa- 
bash Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

POT  ROAST  OF  LAMB.— Take  a  piece  of  the  leg  or  shoul- 
der of  lamb,  salt  and  pepper  it.  and  put  into  a  stew  kettle  with 
enough  water  to  keep  from  burning.  When  done,  cook  down  and 
brown  in  its  own  fat.  It  ma\'  be  served'  with  or  without  mint 
sauce. — Mrs,  H,  C,  Waack,  5435  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  IlL 

CROWN  POT  ROAST  OF  LAMB.— A  crown  roast  may  be 
fashioned  from  a  full  loin,  but  is  of  more  perfect  shape,  when  cut 
from  both  loins  and  fastened  together  at  the  sides.  Cut  the  same 
number  of  ribs  from  both  sides  of  a  rack  of  mutton,  selecting  ribs 
on  one  side  that  correspond  to  those  on  the  other.  Cut  the  ribs 
apart  at  the  backbone,  but  separate  the  chops  no  farther.  Trim 
the  bones  as  for  French  chops,  removing  the  trimmings  to  make 
the  meat  on  the  chops  of  uniform  height.  Or  leave  the  trimmings 
on  each  side  in  one  piece  and  roll  this  over  and  over  backwards. 
When  the  ends  are  joined,  a  circle  or  crown  of  meat  is  formed. 
If  necessary,  trim  the  bones  to  make  all  the  same  in  length.  Cover 
the  ends  of  the  bones  securely  with  strips  of  salt  pork.  Cover,  and 
cook  slowly  for  1  hr..  once  in  a  while  shaking  the  contents  of  the 
saucepan  to  keep  it  from  sticking  to  the  bottom.  Now  put  in  a 
dozen  small  potatoes  or  as  many  pieces  of  large  ones,  cut  up. 
Cook  1  hr.  longer.     Arrange  the  meat  in  the  center  of  the  dish. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  329 

with  the  potatoes  and  turnips  around  it.  Strain  the  gravy  on  the 
top,  and  serve.  This  may  be  cooked  in  the  oven  in  a  large  Soyer! 
paper  bag  and  the  flavor  is  very  good. — Mrs.  S.  J.  Walsh,  4442 
Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

LEG  OF  LAMB  POT  ROAST.— Always  skin  the  Iamb  and 
wipe  very  clean,  dust  well  with  flour,  and  put  into  a  kettle  and 
brown,  add  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning,  and  a  handful  of 
mixed  allspice,  whole.  Cook  until  thoroughly  tender,  and  serve 
hot,  with  or  without  mint  sauce. — 'Mrs.  John  Hansen,  1408  S.  8th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

ROAST  LAMB  WITH  MINT  SAUCE.— If  the  roast  is  from 
the  breas't,  make  a  stuffing,  fill  the  place  made  for  the  stuffing. 
Wipe  the  meat,  dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour,  and  roast  on  a 
rack,  basting  often,  and  allowing  15  minutes  to  a  lb.  If  more  fat 
is  required  for  basting,  use  butter.  Serve  hot  on  a  platter  with 
mint  sauce. 

Mint  Sauce. — 2  tablespoons"  of  green  mint,  chopped  fine,  soaked 
to  remove  all  the  gravel.  Then  mix,  1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar 
and  Yi  teacup  of  vinegar  (taking  care  that  all  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved) in  a  sauce-boat,  and  stir  in  the  mint.  This  gives  a  very 
fine  flavor  to  lamb. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

ROASTING  A  LEG  OF  LAMB.— Slice  salt  pork  very  thin, 
cut  2  slices  down  to  the  rind  of  the  leg  of  lamb,  leaving  the  rind 
uncut,  to  make  the  slices  as  large  as  possible,  make  as  many  of 
these  slices  as  will  cover  the  whole  leg,  then  wrap  the  whole  in 
grape  leaves,  bind  on  with  a  string,  and  roast.  The  lamb  will  be 
exceedingly  juicy,  and  of  a  delicious  flavor,  baste  with  rich  soup 
stock.  Legs  of  lamb  may  have  the  bone  removed  and  then  stuffed 
with  preferred  fowl  or  meat  dressing,  and  roasted. — Mrs.  S.  J. 
Walsh,  4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

ROAST  LAMB  SHOULDER  STUFFED.— Have  the  bone  ex- 
tracted neatly,  and  fill  the  cavity  left  with  a  stuffing  of  a  cup  of 
bread  crumbs,  chopped  fine,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  melted,  1  ta- 
blespoon of  chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoon  of  onion  juice  or  chopped 
onions,  J^  teaspoon  of  paprika.  Roast  in  a  quick  oven.  Into  2 
tablespoons  of  softened  butter  mix  1  tablespoon  each  of  chopped 
parsley,  onion  and  lemon  juice,  and  kitchen  bouquet.     Draw  the 


330  MEATS 

meat,  when  done,  from  the  oven,  spread  it  with  this  prepared  sauce, 
and  return  to  the  oven  for  4  minutes.  Garnish  with  small,  round 
fried  potatoes.  Serve  green  peas  with  it. — iMrs.  A.  E.  Whitney, 
1760  Edgewater  Place,  Chicago,  111. 

COLD  ROAST  LAMB  IN  TOMATO.— Make  1  qt.  of  tomato 
sauce.  Slice  cold  roast  lamb  thin,  as  for  the  table,  and  just  before 
serving  place  it  in  the  boiling  sauce.  Cook  just  long  enough  to 
heat  the  meat,  and  serve.  The  secret  of  making  an  inviting  dish 
of  already  cooked  meat  is  in  not  forgetting  that  it  is  cooked  enough. 
It  should  only  be  heated  through. — Mrs.  Emma  Minter,  3334  S. 
State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

LAMB  STEW. — Remove  pink  skin  and  extra  fat  from  1^ 
lbs.  lamb  fore-quarter.  Cut  meat  into  pieces  for  serving,  wipe, 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  5  minutes,  then  cook  below  boil- 
ing point  until  tender — a'bout  Ij^  hrs.  At  the  end  of  an  hr.  add  1 
onion,  cut  fine,  and  season  to  taste.  When  meat  is  cooked  make 
sauce  for  lamb  stew,  with  2  tablespoons  flour,  ]/^  teaspoon  white 
pepper,  J^  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  drippings,  2  cups  stock,  2 
tablespoons  chopped  parsley.  Make  as  white  sauce,  and  heat  meat 
in  it,  add  parsley,  and  serve  with  a  border  of  boiled  rice. — ^Mrs.  S. 
J.  Walsh,  4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

LIVER 

LIVER  AND  BACON  AND  ONIONS.— 1  lb.  of  liver  and  i^ 
lb.  of  bacon.  Boil  the  liver  in  salt  water  for  5  minutes  to  remove 
any  impurities.  Drain  and  wipe  dry,  and  lay  in  flour,  salted  and 
peppered.  While  this  is  being  done  fry  the  bacon,  remove  and  fry 
the  liver  in  the  same  fat.  Remove  liver  and  fry  onions  in  the 
same  drippings.  Arrange  the  liver  in  the  center  of  platter,  the 
bacon  around  it,  and  the  onions  on  top  of  the  liver.  This  will 
.verve  4  people. — Mrs.  F.  E.  Clawer,  1103  S.  8th  Ave.,  May  wood, 
111. 

VARIATION  I. — Slice  any  kind  of  liver  (calves'  liver  pre- 
ferred) not  too  thin.  Fry  an  equal  number  of  slices  of  'bacon  first. 
The  liver  may  be  dipped  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  in  flour,  or 
fried  plain,  and  served  on  the  slices  of  bacon. — Mrs.  John  Ward, 
6639  Union  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  331 

BAKED  LIVER. — ^Wipe  a  whole  liver  and  score  several  times 
to  the  depth  of  J^  inch.  Lay  thin  strips  of  salt  pork  in  the  scores 
and  add  an  onion,  2  carrots,  a  turnip,  a  potato,  and  any  other  vege- 
table on  hand,  cut  fine.  Place  them  around  the  liver  and  sprinkle 
2  tablespoonj  of  finely  cut  pork  over  the  vegetables.  Dust  all  well 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  the  liver  with  water  at  first,  letting 
it  boil  away.  Serve  the  vegetables  on  the  platter  with  the  liver. — 
Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CALF'S  LIVER  BRAISED.— Wipe  with  a  clean  wet  cloth. 
Lard  the  rounded  side  with  bacon  or  salt  pork.  Fry  1  onion  in 
salt  pork  fat.  Put  the  liver  and  fried  onion  in  a  braising-pan;  add 
hot  water  or  stock  to  half  cover,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of 
pepper  and  1  tablespoon  of  herbs.  Cover,  and  cook  in  a  moderate 
oven  2  hrs.,  basting  often.  When  ready  to  serve,  strain  the  liquor, 
season  with  lemon  juice,  and  pour  it  over  the  liver. — ^Mrs.  A.  C. 
Christy,  Glen  View,  111. 

CALF'S  LIVER,  CREAMED.— Cut  2  lbs.  of  liver  in  small 
pieces,  cover  with  salt  and  cold  water  for  IQ  minutes,  and  drain. 
Heat  5  tablespoons  butter,  put  in  the  liver,  seasoning  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  oook  slowly  8  minutes,  browning  it  on  all  sides; 
then  take  up  the  liver  and  place  it  where  it  will  keep  warm.  Place 
1  slice  onion  in  the  frying-pan  and  cook  1  minute;  add  3  teaspoons 
of  flour  and  cook,  constantly  starring,  until  it  begins  to  froth. 
Draw  the  pan  back,  gradually  add  the  cold  milk  and  cook  1  min- 
ute, stirring  all  the  time.  Place  the  liver  in  the  pan  with  the 
gravy,  cover  the  pan  and  stew  very  slowly  5  minutes  longer. — Mrs. 
E.  D.  Bennett,  Bartlett,  111. 

LIVER  DUMPLINGS.— Skin  a  calf's  liver  and  rub  it  through 
a  sieve.  Put  it  into  a  basin  with  2  oz.  finely  chopped  bacon,  7  oz. 
fried  dice  of  bread;  add  4  beaten  eggs,  1  minced  onion,  and  season 
with  nutmeg,  salt  arid  pepper.  Mix  well  with  a  little  cold  water 
and  enough  flour  to  bind  the  dumplings.  Make  them  into  small, 
round  balls,  and  boil  them  in  salted  water  for  15  minutes.  Serve 
hot  with  fried  bread  crumbs  and  a  sauce  of  melted  butter,  thick- 
ened with  grated  potatoes. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave^  May- 
woody  in. 


332  MEATS 

FRIED  LIVER — Have  the  liver  sliced  fairly  thin,  dip  it  in 
flour,  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  and  beaten  egg,  or  fry  it  plain  in 
bacon  or  other  pork  dripping.  If  desired,  onions  may  be  fried 
with  the  bacon,  or  afterwards,  in  the  same  fat,  and  served  in  the 
center  of  the  platter  on  which  the  liver  is  arranged. — Mrs.  S.  J. 
Walsh,  4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

LIVER  HASH. — Cut. the  liver  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  penny; 
it  must  measure  1  pt.  after  cutting.  Heat  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
and  stir  in  1  teaspoon  of  flour,  cooking  and  stirring  until  brown; 
then  add  1  cup  of  water,  gradually,  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Place  the  liver  in  this  sauce,  and  simmer  very  gently  20  min- 
utes. Add  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  serve  very  hot. — Mrs. 
Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

CALF'S  LIVER  AND  MUSHROOMS.— Mix  i/4  lb.  of  butter, 
the  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  put  them  into  a  chafing-dish, 
adding  salt,  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  dry  mus- 
tard. When  heated,  put  in  1  calf's  liver,  cut  in  small  squares,  and 
gently  stew  in  butter  and  a  little  water,  and  add  part  of  can  of 
sliced  mushrooms.  When  it  has  cooked  5  minutes,  add  a  small 
glass  of  Madeira,  and  serve  on  hot  toast. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka,  III. 

RAGOUT  OF  LAMB'S  LIVER.— Boil  till  tender.  Cut  in  thin 
round  slices.  Make  a  rich  brown  sauce;  season  with  spices  and 
wine.  Stew  the  liver  in  till  hot.  and  serve  at  once.  Garnish  with 
alternate  slices  of  lemon  and  hard-boiled  eggs. — Mrs.  James  Moore, 
4412  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

MUTTON 

BOILED   LEG   OF  MUTTON,   WITH    CAPER   SAUCE.— 

Put  the  mutton  in  a  kettle,  pour  over  it  hot  water  sufficient  to  cov- 
er, and  add  a  cupful  of  well  washed  rice,  which  will  render  the* 
mutton  whiter  and  more  tender.  When  the  water  boils,  skim  it 
carefully  and'  allow  it  to  boil  rapidly  15  minutes;  then  set  the  kettle 
where  the  boiling  will  be  gentle,  but  constant,  and  allow  15  min- 
utes to  each  lb.,  if  the  meat  is  desired  rare.  Serve  with  caper 
sauce. — Mrs.  Cecelia  Miller,  611  Dearborn  Ave.,  Chicago,  HU 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  333 

BREADED  MUTTON.— Sew  up  the  mutton  in  a  thin  cloth, 
lay  it  in  a  saucepan,  nearly  cover  with  cold  water,  and  stew  gently, 
allowing  10  minutes  to  each  lb.  Take  it  out,  unwrap,  and  lay  it  in 
a  baking-dish,  brush  over  with  warm  dripping,  dredge  with  flour, 
and  set  in  the  oven  for  Yz  an  hr.,  basting  freely  with  its  own  broth. 
When  nearly  done,  strew  thickly  with  crumbs,  dot  bits  of  butter 
over  it,  and  brown.  Serve  with  slices  of  'beetroot. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jef- 
fries, Winnetka,  111. 

MUTTON  CUTLETS  BREADED.— Trim  the  cutlets,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  in  crumbs,  beaten  egg,  and 
crumbs  again,  and  fry  in  smoking  fat,  4  to  6  minutes,  if  rare,  8  to  10 
if  well  done.  Arrange  in  the  center  of  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  tomato 
sauce  around  them,  or  place  them  around  a  mound  of  mashed  po- 
tatoes or  spinach.  Trim  the  bones  with  a  paper  ruffle^  or  arrange 
them  with  the  bone  end  up,  stacked  like  bayonets,  and  garnish  with 
stuffed  tomatoes. — Mrs.  Wm.  Reid,  1215  La  Salle  Ave.,  Chicago, 
111. 

MOCK  VENISON.— Lard  a  leg  of  mutton  with  strips  of  salt 
pork  inserted  in  deep  slits  in  the  meat,  which  has  been  previously 
rolled  in  pepper  and  cloves;  bake  2  hrs.,  or  according  to  size  of 
roast.  About  an  hr.  before  serving,  spread  over  it  currant  jelly, 
return  to  the  oven  and  let  it  brown. — Mrs,  Louise  Robert,  944 
Wells  St.,  Chicago,  111.' 

MUTTON  PATTIES.— ^Mince  cooked  meat,  and  ha»h  in  good 
gravy,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  catsup.  Do  not  boil 
the  mince,  let  it  become  hot  and  thicken.  Line  patty-pans  half  with 
puff  paste  and  fill  with  the  meait.  Cover  with  the,  paste,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  for  15  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka, 
111. 

MUTTON  PIE. — Put  into  a  pie-dish  alternate  layers  of  sea- 
soned slices  of  mutton  and  thinly  sliced  potatoes.  Begin  with  the 
meat  and  end  with  potatoes.  Use  parsley,  savory  herbs,  onion  or 
shallot,  a  little  mace,  white  pepper  and  salt,  if  desired.  Pour  a 
cup  of  gravy  into  the  pie  before  putting  on  the  crust.  Suet  is  gen- 
erally used  for  the  crust. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

MUTTON  POT  ROAST.— Put  the  mutton  in  a  kettle  with 
cold  water  to  cover,  skim  and  cook  down  with  1  onion  and  a  bay 


334  MEATS 

leaf  and  brown  in  its  own  fat. — Mrs.  John  Ward,  6639  Union  Ave., 
Chicago,  111. 

ROAST  MUTTON.— Choose  a  piece  from  the  leg  or  loin.  The 
leg  is  greatly  improved  by  having  the  bone  removed,  and  filling  its 
place  with  a  stuffing  made  of  1  coffee  cup  coarse  cracker  crumbs, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  mint,  dried  and 
powdered,  moisten  with  melted  butter. — Mrs.  John  Ward,  6639 
Union  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

ROAST  LEG  OF  MUTTON.— Wipe  the  mutton  with  a  damp 
cloth,  sprinkle  it  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour,  and  place  on  a  meat-* 
rack  in  a  roasting-pan;  roast  in  a  hot  oven,  allowing  15  minutes  to 
a  lb.  Baste  every  15  minutes,  dredging  with  a  slight  sprinkle  of 
flour,  salt  and  pepper  at  each  basting.  When  done  place  on  a  plat- 
ter. Place  the  dripping-pan  upon  the  top  of  the  stove  and  drain 
off  all  but  1  ta'blespoonful  of  the  fat.  Add  a  little  flour,  and  stir 
until  a  nice  brown,  after  which  add  boiling  water,  stirring  con- 
stantly, until  the  gravy  is  of  the  desired  consistency.  Strain  and 
send  to  table  in  a  sauce-boat.  Serve  with  currant  or  other  tart 
jelly.  This  may  be  roasted  in  a  large  Soyer  paper  bag. — Mrs.  S.  J. 
Walsh,  4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

ROASTED,  STUFFED  AND  ROLLED  SHOULDER  OF 
MUTTON. — Have  the  butcher  remove  the  bones  from  a  shoulder 
piece.  Wipe  the  meat  carefully,  and  dredge  with  flour,  after  sprink- 
ling with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  the  following  stuffing:  1  pt.  of 
bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  J^  teaspoon  of  pepper,  Y-i 
onion,  1  teaspoon  of  dried  herbs,  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Rub  the  but- 
ter and  crumbs  well  together  and  let  them  stand  at  least  an  hr. 
Chop  the  onion  fine,  pour  boiling  water  over  it,  and  drain  off  al- 
most immediately.  This  removes  the  rank  taste  of  the  onion.  Add 
the  chopped  onion  to  the  crumbs,  and  also  the  salt  and  pepper,  and 
the  herbs,  if  there  are  any.  Spread  the  meat  with  this  dressing, 
roll  it  up  and  skewer  it  together,  or  else  tie  it  around  with  clean 
twine,  if  there  are  no  skewers.  Rub  over  with  soft  butter  and  place 
the  meat  on  the  rack;  roast  in  quick  oven.  Allow  but  20  minutes 
to  a  lb.  in  baking  with  a  stuffing. — Mrs.  Elizabeth  Marrs,  55  E.  36th 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  33S 

MUTTON  AND  OYSTER  SAUSAGES.— Use  1  lb.  of  rare 
cooked  meat;  ^  lb.  of  beef  suet,  1  pt.  of  oysters,  ^  pt.  of  bread 
crumbs,  2  eggs,  1  onion,  1  tablespoon  of  herbs.  Chop  the  meat 
very  fine,  and  add  seasoning  to  taste,  a  bit  of  celery,  parsley,  and 
any  herbs  available.  Chop  the  suet  and  allspice  very  fine,  then 
mix  all  well  together,  form  into  small  balls,  and  fry.  A  couple  of 
anchovies  may  be  added  to  the  seasoning. — Mrs.  B.  Jackson,  44  W. 
35th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SCRAMBLED  MUTTON.— Take  2  cups  chopped  mutton,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  English  walnut  and  2  tablespoons  of 
hot  water.  Heat,  then  break  in  3  eggs,  and  stir  constantly  until 
the  eggs  begin  to  set.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Lamb,  beef, 
pork,  any  cold  meat,  in  fact,  may  be, served  this  way. — Mabel  Stur- 
tevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

STEAMED  LEG  OF  MU'fTON.— Cook  the  leg  in  a  steamer 
until  tender;  then  put  in  a  dripping-pan,  salt,  dredge  plentifully 
with  flour,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  until  nicely  browned.  Serve  with 
currant  jelly.— Mrs.  W.  J.  Henderson,  2815  Calumet  Ave.,  Chicago, 
111. 

MUTTON  STEW.— 1  lb.  flank  of  mutton,  1  small  onion,  3 
slices  carrot,  3  slices  turnip,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons 
flour,  pepper  and  salt.  Cut  mutton  into  small  pieces,  season,  and 
place  in  earthen  dish;  add  vegetables,  mix  butter  and  flour;  add 
hot  water,  and  pour  over  meat,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  salt 
to  taste,  and  cook  5  hrs.  in  Aladdin  pail. — ^^Mrs.  B.  Hubert,  3733' 
Elmwood  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

A  GENUINE  IRISH  STEW.— Use  2  lbs.  of  lean  chops  from 
the  necks  of  mutton.  Peel  as  many  potatoes  as  will  amount  to 
twice  the  weight  of  the  meat.  Slice  with  them  8  onions.  At  the 
bottom  of  a  pan  put  a  layer  of  potatoes  and  onions,  then  one  of 
meat,  season  with  pepper  and  a  little  salt.  Pack  closely,  and  cover 
with  another  layer  of  potatoes  and  onions.  Pour  enough  water 
over  stock  to  moisten  the  topmost  layer,  cover  the  stew-pan  tightly 
and  let  simmer  for  3  hrs.  Do  not  remove  the  lid,  as  this  will  let 
out  the  flavor. — ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 


336  MEATS 

PORK 

TO  FRY  DOWN  PORK.— Take  fresh  pork,  slice,  and  fry  as 

for  table  use;  pack  in  crocks  and  cover  with  the  hot  dripping;  be 
sure  it  gets  well  around  the  slices  in  each  layer,  cover  and  weight 
to  keep  the  pork  well  undei"  the  dripping.     Have  kept  it  for  sum-', 
itier  use  for  years,  and  find  it  was  as  nice  as  if  freshly  cooked. — ■ 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BACON  AND  APPLES.— Apples  are  often  fried  with  bacon, 
many  people  being  very  fond  of  the  flavor  thus  produced.  The 
dish  is  prepared  thus:  Choose  tart,  well-flavored  apples,  cut  them 
across  into  5/2-inch  slices,  and  carefully  remove  the  core  part  from 
each  slice.  Cut  as  many  thin  slices  of  bacpn  as  there  are  slices  of 
apple,  fry  the  meat  in  its  own  fat  until  very  crisp,  and  place  it  on 
a  hot  dish.  Fry  the  apples  with  the  bacon  until  quite  brown,  drain 
and  lay  them  on  the  slices  of  meat.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  sugar, 
and  serve. — Mrs.  Chas.  Ziegler,  11^  E.  36th  St.,  Chicago.  111. 

CREAMED  BACON.— 10  slices  of  bacon,  V/z  cups  of  milk, 
15^  tablespoons  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  The  slices  of 
bacon  should  be  very  thin  and  the  size  of  ordinary  breakfast  bacon 
— about  4  inches  long  and  2j^  inches  wide.  Lay  them  in  a  frying- 
pan  and  place  in  a  hot  oven;  when  the  meat  is  brown  and  crisp  set 
the  pan  on  top  of  the  stove,  lay  the  bacon  on  a  hot  plate,  add  the 
flour  to  the  fat  in  the  pan  and  stir  quickly  for  2  minutes,  being  care- 
ful that  the  heat  is  not  strong  enough  to  brown  the  flour.  As  soon 
as  the  flour  is  cooked,  add  the  cold  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring 
constantly  to  make  a  smooth  gravy.  Let  the  gravy  cook  for  2 
minutes  after  it  has  reached  the  boiling  point  and  add  salt,  if 
needed.  Turn  the  gravy  out  on  a  hot  platter,  dust  lightly  with  pep- 
per, lay  the  slices  of  bacon  on  it,  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  M. 
Young,  4237  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRIED  BACON  (Southern  Style).— Cut  slices  of  bacon  V2 
inch  thick.  Pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  let  it  stand  5  minutes; 
put  the  slices  in  frying-pan  and  sprinkle  Indian  meal  lightly  over 
them,  cook  over  rather  hot  fire  until  crisp,  and  brown,  and  serve  on 
a  warm  dish. — Mrs.  James  Russell,  3519  S.  La  Salle  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         537 

EGG  AND  BACON  PIE.— Make  a  short  paste  and  line  pie- 
plate;  cover  with  bacon,  cut  into  fine  strips;  beat  2  eggs  with  a  lit- 
tle milk,  season  to  taste,  and  pour  over  bacon;  cover  with  crust  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mary  E.  Stark,  3753  Armour  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

POTATOES  AND  BACON.— Cream  potatoes  in  the  usual 
way  'by  cutting  in  cubes  and  warming  in  milk  sauce;  when  they 
have  simmered  about  5  minutes,  add  some  bacon  which  has  been 
cut  in  tiny  cubes  and  fried  until  nearly  brown;  'bacon  should  be 
well  drained  before  it  is  put  with  the  potatoes;  let  bake  a  few  min- 
utes, and  serve.  Potatoes  creamed  in  the  same  way,  only  place  a 
layer  of  potatoes,  then  a  layer  of  grated  cheese,  and  so  on  until  a 
medium-sized  ^basin  is  filled;  always  have  a  layer  of  the  grated 
cheese  on  lop;  bake  in  the  same  way  as  the  former;  this  will  be 
found  a  splendid  dish  in  case  of  unexpected  company. — Mrs.  Wm. 
Reid,  1215  La  Salle  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRIED  PORK  CHOPS.— Place  1  tahlespoon  of  drippings  in  a 
frying-pan.  -Dust  the  chops  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour,  or  dip  in 
ep;g  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  slowly  until  of  a  fine  brown. 
Thicken  the  gravy  in  the  pan  and  pour  it  over  the  meat. — Mrs. 
John  Ward,  6639  Union  Ave.,  Chicago,  III. 

PORK  CHOPS  WITH  FRIED  APPLES.— Trim  ofif  most  of 
the  fat  from  nice  firm  pork  chops;  dredge  well  with  flour,  and  put 
over  a  hot  fire  until  thoroughly  done;  20  to  25  minutes  are  usually 
required.  In  the  meantime  cut  3  apples  into  slices  and  sipimer  in 
butter  or  dripping  until  tender.  Place  around  the  chops  and  serve 
hot.— Mrs.  L.  N.  Powell,  3513  S.  Dearborn  St..  Chicago,  III. 

CREOLE  PORK  CHOPS.— 1  lb.  loin  pork  chops,  i/^  can 
tomatoes,  4  onions,  pepper  and  salt.  Dip  the  chops  in  flour  and 
fry  a  golden  brown,  take  out,  and  fry  the  onions  in  the  same  fat 
until  a  golden  brown.  Add  a  ta'blespoon  of  flour  and  water  enough 
to  make  a  very  stiflf  gravy;  when  smooth  add  the  strained  toma- 
toes.—Mrs.  F.  E.  Clower,  1103  S.  7th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CHOP  SUEY.— Chop  5^  lb.  pork  and  1^^  lbs.  veal  into  small 
pieces,  fry  until  done.  Fry  10  onions  until  brown.  Drain  oflF  all  the 
grease,  add   1   large  stalk  celery,   cut  fine,    1   can   mushrooms  and 


338  HEATS 

onions  to  meat.  Take  the  juice  from  the  mushrooms,  add  enough 
flour  to  make  a  thick  gravy,  some  Chinese  brown  sauce,  pour  over 
all,  cover  and  let  slowly  t)oil. 

Boiled  Rice  With  Chop  Suey. — Use  1  qt.  boiling  hot  water 
to  each  cup  of  rice,  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt. — ^Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Johnson, 
219  S.  9th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BOILED  PIG'S  FEET.— Take  the  fore  feet,  cut  off  the  hocks, 
clean  and  scrape  them  well;  place  two  feet  together  and  roll  them 
up  tightly  in  common  muslin;  tie  or  sew  them  so  that  they  will  keep 
in  perfect  shape,  and  boil  them  7  hrs.  on  a  moderate  fire — they  will 
then  be  very  soft;  lift  them  out  carefully  and  let  them  cool  off; 
then  remove  the  muslin  and  you  will  find  them  like  jelly.  Serve 
with  vinegar,  or  split  them  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs  or  cracker 
dust,  and  fry  or  broil  them.  Serve  with  a  little  tart  sauce. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

TO  COOK  A  HAM.— Soak  the  ham  in  cold  water  for  12  hrs.. 
put  it  on  to  boil,  allow  IS  minutes  for  each  lb.,  pouf  the  waterj 
off,  fill  the  pot  with  fresh  water  (boiling),  put  in  a  pt.  of  vinega^, 
a  tablespoon  of  whole  allspice,  a  teaspoon  of  cloves;  allow  the 
ham  to  cook  in  this  15  minutes  for  each  lb.;  let  it  remain  in  this 
liquor  till  cold,  skim  it,  make  a  paste  of  vinegar  and  mustard,  and 
cover  the  top  with  it;  put  bread  crumbs  and  a  little  sugar  on, 
then  return  to  oven  for  a  short  time. — ^^Mrs.  M.  Abbott,  2110  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago,  111. 

MARYLAND  BAKED  HAM.-^ovef  a  medium-sized  ham 
with  sweet  cider.  Let  it  simmer  gently  for  3^  hrs.  Skim  often 
to  remove  the  grease.  When  tender  take  out  and  remove  the  rind; 
outline  the  fat  on  top  into  diamonds  and  in  each  stick  a  clove. 
Rub  5^2  cup  of  maple  syrup  over  the  top,  place  in  the  oven  and 
bake  slowly  for  45  minutes.  Garnish,  and  send  to  the  table. — Mrs. 
C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  III. 

DEVILED  HAM. — Mix  1  tablespoon  of  mustard,  1  of  vinegar. 
2  of  melted  butter,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  spread  the  mixture  on  both 
sides  of  meat,  sprinkl-e  Yz  lb.  raw  ham,  cut  in  thin  slices,  with  flour, 
and  broil  over  clear  coals  for  about  10  minutes.  Serve  immediately 
on  a  hot  dislh. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  339 

FRIED  HAM  WITH  CREAM  GRAVY.— Properly  cured  ham 
will  not  need  freshening;  but  should  the  ham  be  too  salt,  place  it  in 
a  frying-pan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  set  the  pan  on  the  range 
in  a  mild  heat;  and  when  the  steam  commences  to  rise  pour  off  the 
water  and  add  more  cold  water.  As  soon  as  this  water  steams 
lift  out  the  slices  of  meat  and  drain  well  before  frying.  Heat  the 
pan  for  frying,  and  when  very  hot,  cook  the  meat  without  the  addi- 
tion of  fat,  unless  the  ham  is  exceptionally  lean,  when  a  spoonful 
of  pork  drippings  should  be  used.  When  the  ham  is  nicely  browned 
place  it  on  a  platter,  and  add  a  cup  of  milk  to  the  fat  in  the  pan. 
When  this  boils,  thicken  it  to  a  cream  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
wet  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a  very  little  milk,  adding  pepper  to  sea- 
son; and  turn  the  gravy  over  the  ham.  A  more  simple  gravy  is 
made  by  adding  a  little  hot  water  to  the  fat,  etc.,  in  the  pan  and 
pouring  this  over  the  meat. — ^Mrs.  H.  W.  Barquette,  2441  S.  Wa- 
bash Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

HAM  PIE. — Chop  off  from  a  raw  ham,  thin  slices,  like  dried 
beef;  peel  and  slice  raw  potatoes;  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  bak- 
ing-dish put  a  layer  of  potatoes,  add  a  little  butter  and  pepper,  then 
a  layer  of  ham,  then  potatoes,  etc.,  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full,  add 
water  till  covered;  cook  on  top  of  range  until  potatoes  are  done. 
Place  over  this  a  crust,  and  bake  Yi  hr. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka, 
111. 

ROAST  HAM  (STUFFED).— Wash  and  soak  a  large  ham  48 
hrs.  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  it.  On  the  morning  of  the  day  it 
is  wanted  place  on  a  tin  sheet  or  in  a  baking-pan  and  entirely  cover 
it  with  a  dough  made  of  2  qts.  of  flour  and  Ij/^  pts.  of  water.  Bake 
slowly  5  hrs,  Eor  the  stuffing,  soak  1  qt.  of  stale  bread  in  1  full 
pt.  of  milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  with  2  eggs. 
Take  out  the  ham,  remove  the  crust  and  skin,  score  it  deeply  and 
fill  the  openings  with  the  stuffing.  Spread  any  remaining  stuffing 
over  the  top  of  the  ham.  Put  the  pan  back  in  the  oven  and  bake 
the  ham  slowly  1  hr.  or  more.  Serve  hot  with  champagne  sauce  or 
currant  jelly  sauce.  Also  delicious  cold. — Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Bartley, 
50(H  Drexel  Blvd.,  Chicago,  111. 

HOW  TO  COOK  PIG'S  CHEEK.— Let  a  pickled  pig*s  cheek 
boil  gently  until  tender,  about  3  hrs.  Tie  Yz  pt.  of  split  peas  loose- 
ly in  a  cloth,  put  them  in  boiling  water  and  boil  1  hr.    Take  out. 


340  MEATS 

pass  them  through  a  sieve  and  mix  with  the  pulp  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  1  oz,  of  butter  and  4  well-beaten  eggs.  Stir  the  mixture 
over  the  fire  until  tihe  eggs  begin  to  set,  then  spread  it  upon  the 
cheek,  brush  over  with  a  bjeaten  egg,  sprinkle  bread  raspings  on  it. 
put  it  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes,  and  serve.  Bread  raspings  are 
pieces  of  stale  bread,  dried  slowly  in  a  warm  oven  till  brown  and 
hard,  and  then  crushed  to  a  powder.  Set  away  in  jars  until  need- 
ed.— ^Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

PORK  PIE  (a  Celeibrated  Western  Dish).--Cut  2  or  3  lbs.  of 
the  thick  ends  of  a  loin  of  pork  into  very  thick  slices,  3  inches  long 
by  2  wide.  Put  a  layer  on  the  botom  of  a  pie-dish  and  sprinkle 
chopped  parsley  and  onion,  a  bit  of  nutmeg,  and  salt  and  pepper 
over  it;  next,  another  layer  of  pork  and'  one  of  seasoning  as  before, 
using  very  little  of  the  nutmeg.  Repeat  till  the  dis'h  fs  full,  and 
then  pour  in  a  cupful  of  stock  or  water  and  1  or  2  tablespoons  of 
catsup.  Have  ready  a  good,  plain  paste.  Put  a  strip  of  it  around 
the  edge  of  the  dish,  put  on  a  cover  of  the  same,  and  set  the  pie  in 
a  rather  hot  oven.  When  the  crust  rises  and  begins  to  color,  place 
the  pie  in  the  bottom  of  the  oven,  put  a  piece  of  paper  over  it  and 
bake  fully  2  hrs.  Some  partly  cook  the  meat  before  putting  on  the 
crust.— Mrs.  A.  D.  Allen,  2351  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRESH  PORK  POT  PIE.— Take  off  the  fat  and  crack  all  the 
bones  of  a  spare  rib;  boil  till  tender;  skim  frequently;  and 
then  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Thicken  the  gravy  about^ 
J/2  an  hr.  before  serving.  Put  in  another  kettle  all  the  bones  and 
most  of  the  gravy,  leaving  just  enough  in  the  first  pot  to  reach  J^ 
inch  a'bove  the  rim  on  wihich  the  pot  rests;  put  the  crust  or  dough 
in,  cover  tightly  to  prevent  any  steam  escaping,  and  keep  boiling 
continuously  for  ^  of  an  hr.  Serve  meat  and  crust  from  one  dish 
with  the  gravy.  To  make  the  crust:  Work  into  light  dough  a  very 
small  piece  of  butter;  roll  it  out  thin,  cut  into  squares  and  lea^vje 
on  the  moulding  board  until  very  light. — Mrs.  Chas.  L.  Rosser,  26 
S.  Aberdeen  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ROAST  PORK. — The  chine,  or  loin,  and  the  spare  fibs  are 
the  best  pieces  for  roasting.  Rub  well  with  pepper,  or  sage,  salt 
and  flour,  and  bake  20  minutes  for  each  I'b.  Baste  often,  and  do 
not  have  the  oven  as  hot  as  for  other  meat.     Roast  pork  is  more 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         341 

wholesome  when  eaten  cold.  The  flavor  of  the  pork  is  improved 
by  roasting  in  a  paper  bag". — Mrs.  S.  J.  Walsh,  4442  Langley  Ave.^ 
Chicago,  111. 

ROAST  LEG  OF  PORK.— Score  the  skin  in  squares,  or  in 
parallel  lines  running  from  side  to  side.  Sprinkle  the  meat  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dredge  ligihtly  with  flour,  and  roast  slowly,  25 
minutes  to  a  lb.  Pour  off  all  but  2  tables-poons  of  the  fat.  Place 
the  pan  on  top  of  the  stove  when  hot,  stir  in  2  tablespoons  of  flour. 
Cook  1  minute,  add  1  pt.  of  hot  water,  stirring  constantly.  Let 
the  gravy  cook  3  minutes,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Those 
who  do  not  object  to  a  hint  of  onion  in  flavoring  will  find  it  is  a 
great  addition  to  place  a  small  onion  in  the  pan  while  the  meat  is 
roasting.  This,  of  course,  is  removed  before  the  gravy  is  made; 
but  it  takes  off  the  extreme  "pig"  flavor  that  is  so  disagreeable  and 
noticeable  in  old  pork. — Mrs.  John  Ward,  6639  Union  AveT,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

ROAST  PIG. — Wash  thoroughly  inside  and  ouside  a  six- 
weeks'-old  pig;  wipe  dry  with  a  towel.  Salt  the  inside  and  stuff 
it  with  a  fowl  dressing;  sew  it  up,  place  it  in  a  kneeling  posture  in 
a  dripping-pan,  baste  with  water  and  butter  a  few  times,  as  the  pig 
warms.  Roast  for  2  or  3  hrs.  Make  a  gravy  by  skimming  off 
most  of.  the  grease;  stir  in  the  pan  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  use 
enough  water  to  make  it  the  right  consistency.  Season,  and  let 
all  boil  up  once.  Strain  and  turn  into  a  gravy-dish.  Place  the 
pig  on  a  large  platter  surrounded  with  parsley. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

ROAST  SPARERIB.— Trim  off  the  rough  ends  neatly,  crack 
the  ribs  across  the  middle,  rub  with  salt  and  sprinkle  with  pepper, 
fold  over,  stuff  with  turkey  dressing,  sew  up  tightly,  place  in  a 
dripping-pan  with  a  pt.  of  water,  baste  frequently,  turning  over 
once  so  as  to  bake  both  sides  equally  until  a  rich  brown. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

FRIED   SALT   PORK,   WITH    CREAM    GRAVY.^Cut   the 

slices  thin,  and  place  them  in  cold  water.  After  they  have  soaked 
1  hr.,  drain  well  and  dry  them  on  a  napkin.  Heat  the  frying-pan 
very  hot.  Place  Y-z  a  cup  of  flour  on  a  plate,  and,  dipping  each 
piece  of  meat  in  it,  fry  until  crisp.     Drain  off  all  but  2  tablespoons 


342  MEATS 

of  the  fat  and  stir  2  tablespoons  of  flour  into  that  remaining  in 
the  pan.  Cook  2  minutes,  stirring  well;  then  draw  the  pan  back* 
on  the  range  and  slowly  add  1  pt.  of  milk.  When  the  gravy  is 
smooth  and  well  mixed  together,  cook  only  1  minute,  and  add 
pepper,  and  salt  also,  if  needed.  Turn  the  gravy  over  the  meat 
and  serve. — ^Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SALT  PORK  PIE.— Scald  well,  with  hot  water,  in  order  to 
remove  the  briny  taste,  cracked  ribs  of  lean  salt  pork  and  also  a 
slice  or  so  of  fat  salt  pork.  Put  into  a  kettle  with  sufficient  cold 
water  to  cover  it,  put  on  the  lid  and  boil  1  hr.;  then  season  with 
pepper  and  put  in  a  dozen  potatoes,  peeled  and  quartered.  When 
the  water  begins  again  to  boil  drop  in  the  dumplings.  Make  as  fol- 
lows: 1  pt.  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  1  even  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon 
of  water,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Put  into  the  kettle  in  table- 
spoons and  boil,  and  closely  covered  Yz  of  an  hr. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Fitz- 
patrick,  3031  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SAUSAGE. — To  15  Ihs.  meat,  either  pig  shoulder  or  side  pork 
and  round  steak  cut  in  strips  for  grinder,  add  4  oz,  of  salt, 
1  oz.  pepper,  2  rounding  tablespoons  of  powdered  sage,  grind  and 
pack  in  earthen  dishes,  run  hot  lard  on  top,  and  it  will  keep  for 
weeks  in  a  cool  place. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

VARIATION  I.— Grind  6  lbs.  of  lean  fresh  pork,  3  lbs.  of 
chine  fat  in  a  sausage  grinder  or  meat  chopper,  mix  3  tablespoons 
of  salt.'^l'^  of  black  pepper,  4  of  pounded  and  sifted  sage  with  the 
hands.  Taste  if  it  has  the  right  flavor,  make  long,  narrow  bags 
of  stout  muslin.  Fill  with  the  meat  and  hang  in  a  cold,  dark  room. 
They  can  be  used  at  once. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

BOLOGNA  SAUSAGE.— Remove  the  outer  skin  of  the  sau- 
sage. Slice  the  sausage  very  thin.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  platter 
with  leaves  of  parsley,  and  lay  the  sausage  on  top,  each  slice  touch- 
ing the  other.  Cut  a  few  hard  boiling  eggs  into  rings,  and  lay  upon 
the  sausage. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

SAUSAGE  AND  MASH  (English  Dish).— Peel  potatoes  and 
put  in  pot  in  the  usual  way  with  salt;  after  they  have  boiled  5 
minutes  put  2  or  3  larg^  onions  on  the  top  of  them    with  the 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         343 

sausage,  let  them  cook  10  minutes,  then  shake  the  sausage  in  a 
frying-pan  over  a  hot  fire  until  bro'vn;  remove  and  place  the 
onion  in  the  pan  and  chop  fine;  when  brown  make  a  gravy,  mash 
the  potatoes,  put  them  on  a  hot  platter  around  the  sausage  and 
gravy. — Mrs.  A.  Cohen,  454  E.  38th  Place,  Chicago,  111. 

SOUSE,  OR  PIG'S  F£ET.— Clean  the  feet  carefully,  and  pour 
over  them  hot  water  sufficient  to  cover.  Boil  slowly  until  the 
meat  will  separate  from  the  bones;  then  take  them  up  carefully 
on  a  skimmer  and  place  them  in  a  stone  jar,  taking  out  the  largest 
bones.  Set  the  water  aside  in  a  cool  place  to  be  used  later. 
Allow  1  qt.  of  strong  vinegar  to  4  good-sized  feet  and  uppers 
(which  are  always  sold  with  the  feet).  Place  the  vinegar  on  the 
fire,  adding  4  bay  leaves,  1  tablespoon  of  whole  cloves,  1  table- 
spoon of  broke-n  cinnamon,  %  teacup  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  of  pep- 
per, Yi  onion^  cut  in  eighths,  1  blade  of  mace.  Steep  all  these 
slowly  in  the  vinegar  for  40  minutes,  being  careful  that  the  vine- 
gar does  not  boil  rapidly  at  any  time.  Remove  from  the  water 
in  which  the  feet  were  boiled  all  the  fat,  which  by  this  time  will 
have  formed  in  a  cake  on  the  top,  and  save  it  for  cooking  purposes. 
Place  1  qt.  of  the  water  in  the  vinegar,  unless  the  latter  is  not  very 
strong,  in  which  case  less  water  must  be  added  so  that  the  vinegar 
will  not  become  too  much  diluted.  Strain  the  liquid  through  a 
sieve  to  remove  the  spice,  etc.,  and  pour  it  over  the  meat  in  the 
jar,  helping  it  through  the  meat  with  a  knife  and  fork  until  the 
whole  is  thoroughly  mixed  together.  Set  the  jar  in  a  cold  place 
for  2  days,  when  the  souse  will  be  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  Ellen  O. 
Wyatt,  2628  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SCRAPPLE. — Scrape  and  thoroughly  clean  a  hog's  head;  then 
split  it  and  take  out  the  eyes  and  brain.  The  butcher  will  do  this 
if  directed.  Clean  the  ears  and  scrape  them  well.  Put  all  on  to 
boil  in  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  simmer  gently  for  4  hrs.,  or  until 
the  bones  will  easily  slip  from  the  meat.  Lift  out  the  meat  and 
bones  into  a  colander,  remove  the  bones  and  chop  the  meat  fine. 
Skim  off  every  particle  of  grease  from  the  water  in  which  the 
meat  was  boiled,  and  return  the  chopped  meat  to  the  kettle  and 
water.  Season  highly  with  pepper  and  salt  and  such  powdered 
herbs  as  may  be  required.  Stir  constantly  with  a  large  wooden 
spoon,  meanwhile  adding  enough  cornmeal  and  buckwheat  flour, 


344  MEATS 

in  equal  quantities  to  make  a  soft  mush.  Cook  slowly  1  hr,,  stir- 
ring constantly,  as  the  mush  will  scorch  easily.  Pour  the  mixture 
into  dishes  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place,  slicing  it  as  needed.  Some- 
times wheat  middlings  is  used  in  place  of  the  cornmeal  and  buck- 
wheat flour,  and  again,  cornmeal  or  buckwheat  flour  alone. — Mrs. 
Geo.  R.  Edmonds,  454  E.  39th  St.,  Chicago,  III. 

PARSNIP  AND  PORK  STEW.— Clean  and  scrape  the  rind 
of  ^4  lb.  of  fat  salt  pork.  Put  it  on  to  boil  in  2  qts.  of  cold  water. 
Put  with  it  any  remnants  of  cold  roast  pork  of  pork  chops,  first 
removing  any  burned  parts;  or  you  may  use  1  lb.  of  fresh  uncooked 
pork,  or  only  the  salt  pork,  if  you  prefer.  After  it  has  stewed 
for  an  hr.,  skim  off  the  fat.  Wash  and  scrape  2  large  parsnips,  cut 
them  into  inch  slices,  and  add  them  to  the  stew;  add  also  1  small 
onion,  sliced.  Half  an  hr.  before  dinner,  add  4  or  5  potatoes,  cut 
in  small  pieces,  and  parboiled  5  minutes.  When  done  skim  out 
the  meat  and  vegetables,  thicken  the  liquor  with  flour  and  water, 
add  more  salt  and  pepper,  if  necessary,  cook  10  minutes  longer, 
then  pour  it  over  the  meat. — ^Mrs.  Jennie  Austin,  3826  S.  La  Salle 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BROILED  PORK  TENDERLOINS.— Split  the  tenderloin 
through  lengthwise,  put  on  a  wire  broiler,  and  cook  over  a  clear 
fire;  when  done  put  in  a  pan  with  a  lump  of  butter  and  let  the  juice 
of  the  meat  and  butter  come  to  a  boil.  This  makes  a  delicious 
gravy.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  M,»L.  Baker,  3560  For- 
est Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

TENDERLOINS    STUFFED    WITH     OYSTERS.— Split    2 

large  tenderloins,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  dressing 
of  a  pt.  of  oysters,  a  cup  cracker  crumbs;  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  celery-salt.  Spread  the  dressing  on  one-half  of  the  tenderloin, 
covering  with  the  other  half.  Spread  the  top  thickly  with  dress- 
ing; tie  together  with  a  string,  bake  like  chicken,  baste  often. — 
Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

SWEET  BREAD      • 

BOILED  SWEET  BREAD.— Wash  in  cold  water;  be  careful 
not  to  break  the  membrane.  If  broken,  wrap  in  cheesecloth  before 
cooking.     Simmer  in  salted  acidulated  water  20  minutes.     To  water 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         345 

may  be  added  1  slice  of  onion,  1  bay  leaf.  Each  ntay  be  diced  and 
served  in  chopping-dish.  (2  cups  diced  material,  Ij/^  cups  sauce.) — 
Mrs.  Joseph  King-,  Kenilworth,  111. 

BROILED  VEAL  SWEETBREADS.— Soak  in  tepid  water  V^ 
hr.;  throw  into  hot  water  to  harden  and  whiten;. then  draw  off  the 
outer  casing,  remove  the  little  pipes  and  cut  into  thin  slices,  roll  in 
beaten.  ^%^,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  broil.  Or,  drop  them  in 
hot  fat  and  butter,  and  fry. — Mrs,  Abner  Grant,  Sherman,  111. 

FRIED  SWEETBREADS.— Clean  the  sweetbreads,  dip  in  egg 
and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  a  nice  brown.  Serve 
hot.— Mrs.  S.  J.  Walsh,  4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SWEETBREADS   WITH   MUSHROOM   SAUCE.— Lay   the 

sweetbreads  in  cold,  salted  water  for  an  hr.,  take  out  all  the  stringy 
parts,  and  lay  in  clear  water  for  a  short  time.  Dry  on  a  towel,  dip 
in  beaten  ^^%  and  bread  crumbs,  rolled  fine,  and  fry  brown  in  but- 
ter, lay  in  a  hot  disli. 

For  the  Sauce.— Pour  a  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk  in  a  stew- 
pan,  add  a  piece  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  parsley,  and  a  very 
little  thickening,  then  add  a  can  of  mushrooms,  and  pour  whole 
over  the  sweetbreads. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

TONGUE 

LAMB'S  TONGUE,  BARBECUED.— Open  a  can  of  lambs' 
tongues  and  spread  on  a  platter.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
little  onion  juice.  Lay  in  a  sauce  made  by  stirring  together  3  table- 
spoons of  salad  oil  and  1  of  vinegar.  Let  them  stand  in  this  mix- 
ture over  night.  In  the  morning  heat  a  little  butter  in  the  frying- 
pan,  lay  the  tongues  in  this  and  saute,  turning  often. — ^Mrs.  C  Jef- 
ferson, 505  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BOILED  TONGUE.— If  salted,  wash  and  let  stand  in  cold 
water  for  2  or  3  hrs.  Then  boil  from  5  to  6  hrs.  in  a  porcelain  ket- 
tle. Let  stand  in  this  liquor  over  night.  Peel  oflf  the  skin,  and  cut 
very  thin, — Mrs.  S.  J.  Walsh.  4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  BEEF  TONGUE.— Let  cook  until  very  tender,  4  hrs. 
or  more,  then  partially  cool  in  the  liquid,  but  remove  to  peel  oflf 


346  ^  MEATS 

the  skin  before  the  tongues  become  cold.  Serve  cold,  sliced  thin. 
Garnish  with  a  macedoine  of  vegetables,  as  peas,  asparagus  tips, 
carrots,  and  turnip,  cut  in  cubes  and  moulded  in  aspic  jelly.  Pass 
mayonnaise  in  moulding.  Salt  the  boiling  water  in  which  a  fresh 
tongue  is  put  to  cook;  it  will  cook  in  about  2  hrs.;  vegetables  added 
to  the  water  are  an  improvement,  the  liquid  may  be  used  for  soup. 
A  boiled  tongue,  fresh  or  salt,  is  often  glazed  and  served  on  .a  bed 
of  spinach  a  la  creme,  or  of  plain  cooked  spinacih;  with  the  latter 
serve  sauce  piquant.  A  fresh  tongue  may  be  braised. — Mrs.  D.  C. 
Daniels,  Arlington  Heights,  111. 

BOILED  SMOKED  TONGUE.— Wash  the  tongue  and  soak  4 
hrs.  in  tepid  water.  Put  over  the  fire  in  plenty  of  cold  water  and 
cook  12  minutes  to  the  lb.  after  it  boils.  Let  it  get  cold  in  the 
water;  pare  and  trim  neatly,  and  garnish  with  small  green  pickles. — 
M^s.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen  View,  111. 

LAMBS'  TONGUES,  BOILED.— Boil  6  tongues  in  salted  wa- 
ter, with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  until  tender.  Serve  cold  with 
Tartar  sauce.  Or  pickle  them  by  covering  with  hot  spiced  vinegar. 
— Mrs.  Allan  George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

CREAMED  SMOKED  TONGUE.— Bend  the  tip  of  the  tongue 
around  and  tie  it  to  the  root.  Put  it  in  cold  water  and  place  over 
the  fire.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  pour  off  the  water,  and  put  it  on 
again  in  cold  water.  Boil  until  tender,  or  about  2  hrs.  Remove 
the  skin,  roots  and  fat.  Pour  a  white  sauce  over  the  tongue,  and 
serve  it  cold  with  a  salad  dressing.  Tongues  may  also  be  braised 
and  served  hot  or  cold. — Mrs.  L.  C.  Crawford,  1005  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

FRENCH  TONGUE.— Cut  1  lb.  of  cold  boiled  tongue  into 
dice.  Make  2  clove  garlic  in  a  "chapon,"  put  this  in  the  bottom  of 
a  bowl;  put  in  the  tongue,  sprinkle  over  Y-z  teaspoon  of  celery  seed, 
1  onion,  grated,  and  2  tablespoons  of  tarragon  vinegar.  Cover  the 
bowl  and  stand  aside  over  night.  Next  morning,  lift  the  tongue 
carefully  from  tihe  garlic,  add,  mixed,  Yz  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  and 
mix  the  whole  with  ^  pt.  of  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  in  little 
nests  of  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs.  Allan  George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  347 

MINCE  OF  TONGUE  AND  EGGS.— Boil  a  fresh  calf's 
tongue,  let  it  get  cold,  and  mince  line.  Heat  Yz  pt.  of  soup  stock, 
and  cook  together,  in  a  frying-pan,  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  of 
browned  flour.  On  this  pour  the  hot  soup  stock  and  cook  until  you 
have  a  thick  brown  sauce.  Into  this  turn  the  chopped  tongue,  and 
toss  and  stir  until  smoking  hot.  Season  with  a  teaspoon  of  tomato 
catsup,  a  teaspoon  o-f  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Have  ready 
>lices  of  toast  on  a  heated  platter.  Pour  the  hot  mixture  over 
these.  Put  a  poadhed  t%%  in  the  center  of  each  slice  of  toast,  and 
serve. — Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SHEEP'S  TONGUES,  BRAISED.— Wash,  dredge  with  salt 
and  flour,  and  brown  in  salt  pork  fat,  with  1  or  2  minced  onions. 
Put  them  in  a  pan  with  water  or  stock  to  half  cover;  add  1  sprig  of 
parsley,  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  cover  and  cook  2  hrs.,  or  until 
fender.  Remove  the  skin,  and  trim  neatly  at  the  roots.  Place  a 
mound  of  spinach  in  the  center  of  the  dish;  arrange  the  tongues 
around  the  spinach,  alternating  with  diamonds  of  fried  bread. — 
Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

SPICED  BEEF  TONGUE.— Rub  into  a  tongue  a  mixture  of  1 
cup  of  brown  sugar,  a  piece  of  saltpetre  the  size  of  a  kernel  of  corn, 
a  tablespoon  of  ground  cloves,  and  y^.  teaspoon  of  black  pepper. 
Put  it  in  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water,  enough  to  cover,  and  let 
stand  a  week  or  10  days.  Take  out,  wash  and  dry.  Roll  in  a  paste 
made  of  flour  and  water.  Put  in  a  small  dripping-pan  with  a  little 
water,  and  bake  slowly  till  done.  When  done  remove  the  paste  and 
skin,  set  away  to  cool.  Have  very  cold,  and  slice  thin. — Eloise  Jen- 
nings, Winnetka,  111. 

TRIPE 

TRIPE  IN  BATTER.— Boil  the  tripe  20  minutes.  Cut  in 
pieces  2  inches  square,  dip  in  batter  made  with  1  ^^Zi  V'\  cup  of 
water,  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  flour  to  make 
almost  a  drop  batter,  and  fry  in  a  frying-pan. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth, 
Wheeling,  111. 

BOILED  TRIPE.— Wash  the  tripe  well  through  several  boil- 
ing waters;  then  put  it  in  cold  water,  and  let  it  soak  over  night. 
Scrape  again,  until  white  and  clean.     Boil  the  tripe  in  equal  parts  of 


348  -  MEATS 

milk  and  water  for  Vz  hr.,  boiling  at  the  same  time  and  in  the  same 
water  a  couple  of  onions,  which  should  be  put  in  the  water  at  least 
Yz  hr.  before  the  tripe  is  put  in  to  boil.  Skim  out  the  onions  when 
perfectly  tender,  and  make  them  into  a  sauce  as  follows,  to  pour 
over  the  tripe:  Drain  the  cooked  onions  well  and  chop  them  very 
fine;  then  place  t^hem  in  Vz  pt.  of  hot  milk,  and  season  with  butter, 
salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Jefferson,  505  S.  5rh  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

BROILED  TRIPE.— Simmer  1  lb.  of  pickled  tripe  (the  honey- 
comb tripe  is  'best)  about  Yi  an  hr.,  or  until  tender,  in  suflicient  milk 
and  water  to  cover.  Drain,  wipe  dry,  and  cut  into  pieces  for  serv- 
ing. Dip  each  piece  in  melted  butter  or  oil,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.,  and  boil  over  a  clear  fire  until  well  colored.  Serve  with 
tomato  or  Tartar  sauce. — Mrs.  Abner  Grant,  Sherman,  111. 

FRICASSEED  TRIPE.— Put  1  lb.  of  tripe,  cut  in  narrow 
strips,  in  a  pan  with  1  small  cup  of  milk  or  water  and  butter  the 
size  of  an  ^^^.  Work  1  large  teaspoon  of  flour  in  with  butter  or 
dredge  it  in;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  simmer  gently  Y^  hr.  If 
liked,  add  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Roger  Rawl- 
ings,  Chicago  Heights,  III. 

FRIED  TRIPE. — Cut  the  tripe  in  squares,  dip  in  beaten  ^^%,  to 
which  has  been  added  a  seasoning  of  s^lt  and  pepper,  then  dip  in 
flour  and  fry  in  very  hot  lard.  When  a  light  brown,  drain  on  soft 
paper,  and  serve. — ^^Mrs.  Abner  Grant,  Sherman,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Parboil  until  tender,  put  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  when  light  brown,  put  in  the  tripe  and 
fry  until  brown,  turning  often.  Place  butter  size  of  an  egg  on  a 
warm  pan  and  when  melted,  add  2  tablespoons  of  chili  sauce.  Put 
the  tripe  into  this  dressing,  and  serve. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka, 
III. 

TRIPE  STEW.^Cut  fresih  tripe  into  pieces  about  5  inches 
long  and  4-wide.  Place  on  the  stove  in  just  enough  hot  water  to 
cover.  Cut  up  6  or  7  onions  in  fine  shavings,  adding  them  to  the 
tripe.  Let  the  water  simmer  slowly  away.  Add  a  paste  made  of 
milk,  thickened  with  flour,  a  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Let 
them  aU  boil  up  2  or  3  times. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  349 

VEAL 

BONELESS  BIRDS.— Cut  up  veal,  or  leaf  steak  in  pieces 
about  2  inches  square,  and  pound  each  piece  until  it  is  quite  flat. 
Dust  all  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  lay  on  each  piece  a  strip  of  bacon, 
roll  it  up  and  tie  with  string,  dip  each  piece  in  flour  and  brown  in  a 
mixture  of  butter  and  dripping;  when  birds  have  become  brown 
pour  on  enough  water  to  cover  tihem;  let  them  simmer  gently  about 
2  hrs.,  thicken  gravy  with  a  little  flour.  Serve  hot. — ^Mrs.  H.  A, 
Klein,  12  E.  ASth  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

"VEAL  BEWITCHED."— Chop  very  fine  3  lbs.  of  veal  taken 
from  the  leg,  %  lb.  salt  pork,  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs.  3  teaspoons  of 
salt,  1  of  black  pepper,  a  scant  14  teaspoon  of  cayenne,  and  a  pinch 
of  cloves;  work  in  thoroughly  2  raw  eggs  and  put  in  mould  or  ket- 
tle, cover  tightly,  and  steam  3  hrs.;  remove  from  the  fire  and  put  in 
the  oven  a  short  time  to  dry;  leave  the  oven  d'oor  open.  When 
cold,  turn  out,  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  serve. — Eloise  Jennings,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

STUFFED  BREAST  OF  VEAL.— Make  an  incision  between 
the  ribs  and  the  meat  to  form  a  cavity  in  which  to  place  the  stuf- 
fing. Make  a  stuffing  of  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  J4  lb.  of  fat  salt 
pork,  1  teaspoon  of  sweet  marj-oram,  1  teaspoon  of  thyme,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  J4  teaspoon  pepper.  The  pork  should  be  chopped 
very  fine,  and  will  make  about  a  large  tablespoonful.  Butter  ma\' 
be  used  in  its  place,  if  preferred.  Roast  the  same  as  plain  veal. — 
Mrs.  Chas.  Horn,  1024  La  Salle  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VEAL   CHICKEN  OR  RABBIT  BONDINETTES.— To  a  lb. 

of  finely-minced  meat  add  ^4  of  a  lb.  of  mashed  potatoes;  season 
W'ith  salt  and  pepper,  and  moisten  uitfh  a  gravy  made  from  the 
bones  of  the  cold  meat.  Press  the  minced  meat  into  well-buttered 
cups  and  bake  for  20  minutes.  Turn  it  out  on  a  dish,  pour  a  little 
brown  gravy  around,  and  stick  a  sprig  of  parsley  into  each  bondi- 
nette. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

DANISH  VEAL  CHOPS.— Take  the  chops  off  of  the  leg, 
spread  on  each  one  parsley,  salt  and  pepper,  roll  up,  tie  with  a 
string  or  run  through  with  a  toothpick.  Put  butter  in  a  frying-pan. 
let  it  get  brown.     Put  in  the  veal  chops  and  let  brown,  add  milk  or 


350  MEATS 

cream  enough  to  half  cover,  and  turn  the  dhops  over.  Season,  and 
serve. — Mrs.  John  Hansen,  1408  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111, 

VEAL  CROQUETTES.— 1  pt.  of  chopped  oooked  veal,  1  tea- 
spoon of  onion  juice,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  level  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Mix  thoroughly,  make  cream  sauce  with  ^  pt.  of 
milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  a  little  pepper 
and  nutmeg.  Add  this  to  meat  and  mix.  When  cold  form  into 
croquettes.  Dip  in  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat. — ' 
Mrs.  M.  Gorman,  3855  Cottage  Grove  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VEAL  CUTLETS  WITH  VERMICELLI.— Remove   all   the 

fat,  but  not  the  small  rib  of  the  cutlet,  season  and  turn  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  or  dip  in  melted  butter,  then  in  dheese,  mixed  with  sifted 
crumbs.  Let  it  absorb,  dip  in  the  egg  and  again  in  the  cheese  mix- 
ture. Stand  aside  for  2  hrs.,  then  fry  in  plenty  of  butter.  Have 
ready  some  vermicelli  boiled  in  salt  water,  then  drained  and*  mixed 
with  tomato  sauce.  Arrange  the  vermicelli  in  the  center  of  a  chop 
platter  and  place  the  cutlets  around  them. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

VEAL  CUTLETS  WITH  BACON.— Neatly  trim  the  cutlets 
so  that  they  will  be  of  one  size,  and  shape  and  then  beat  them  with 
the  rolling-pin  until  they  are  a  little  more  than  a  54  of  an  inch;  in 
thickness.  Dip  each  cutlet  into  beaten  egg  and  then  into  fine,  dry 
bread  crumibs,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  them  in  a  pan, 
well  greased  with  cold  dripping.  Fry  gently  until  done  on  one  side; 
turn  and  fry  the  other  side.  When  done,  serve  with  slices  of  bacon. 
—Mrs.  David  Harvey,  1449  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  FILLET  OF  VEAL.— The  fillet  should  be  cut  from 
small,  tender  veal.  Stuff  with  oyster  stuffing.  Fasten  together 
neatly  and  securely  with  tape.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  allow  it 
to  slowly  reach  the  boiling  point.  Skim  carefully  and  simmer  for 
3  or  4  hrs.  Remove  the  tape,  first  inserting  skewers  to  hold  the 
veal  in  place.  Use  oyster  sauce  in  serving.— iMrs.  Frank  E.  Cox, 
3805  Wentworth  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  CALF'S  FEET.— Bone  2  white  calf's  feet  as  far  as 
tihe  first  joint  and  soak  in  warm  water  2  hrs.  Now  put  into  a  stew- 
pan  2  slices  of  bacon^  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  of  lemon  iuke» 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  351 

some  salt  and  whole  pepper,  1  onion,  1  bunch  of  savory  herbs,  4 
cloves  and  1  blade  of  mace;  lay  the  feet  in  and  add  just  enough 
water  to  cover.  Stew  gently  for  about  3  hrs.,  remove  the  feet  and 
serve  them,  covered  with  parsley  and  butter.  The  stock  from  the 
feet  should  be  strained  and  reserved  for  use.  It  will  prove  a  good 
addition  to  gravies,  etc. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Callin,  2717  S.  Wabash  Ava, 
Chicago,  111. 

TO  COOK  CALF'S  HEAD.— Clean  the  calf's  head,  split  in 
halves,  take  the  eyes  and  snout  bone  away,  soak  in  cold  water  for  2 
hrs.  Wash  the  brains  in  several  waters,  and  lay  them  in  cold  wa- 
ter. Put  the  head  together;  cover  it  with  cold  water,  add  a  table- 
spoon of  salt;  iboil  slowly  for  2  or  3  hrs.  When  it  has  boiled  about 
an  hr.,  take  out  J4  of  the  liquor  for  gravy;  add  salt,  pepper^  parsley, 
chopped  fine,  a  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  put  over  the  fire  to 
boil.  Beat  up  an  tgg,  with  2  ta'blespoons  of  flour.  Remove  the 
skin  from  the  brains  and  teat  them  up  with  the  egg  and  flour. 
W'hen  well  beaten,  thicken  the  gravy  with  it  and  stew  15  minutes. — 
Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

VEAL  AND  HAM. — These  are  often  dressed  together.  Heat 
the  frying-pan  hot,  and  fry  the  ham,  using  no  fat  unless  the  meat 
is  unusually  lean.  When  the  ham  is  cooked,  place  it  on  the  serving 
dish,  cook  the  veal  in  the  juices  left  from  the  ham,  frying  without 
covering  until  it  is  a  deep  brown.  After  the  veal  is  done,  add  a 
little  water  to  t'he  gravy,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  if  needed^  and 
pour  it  out,  thickening  over  the  meat. — ^^Mrs,  J.  Carey,  3248  S.  State 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VEAL  LOAF. — 3  lbs.  chopped  veal,  3  eggs,  J/^  doz.  crackers 
(rolled  fine),  salt,  pepper.  Mix  ingredients  vsrell  and  mould  in  a 
loaf.  Put  into  pan.  Over  it  lay  strips  of  bacon  and  put  around 
it  2  cups  of  water.  Cook  slowly  for  1  hr.  (at  least).  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce,  or  any  sauce  preferred. — Mrs.  Helen  Williams,  6032 
Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VEAL  OYSTERS.— Cut  veal  from  the  leg  or  tenderloin  into 
pieces  the  size  of  an  oyster.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
mace;  dip  in  egg^  and  into  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry.  Serve 
with  tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 


352  MEATS 

BAKED  VEAL  PIE.— Boil  veal  1  hr.,  then  place  in  a  deep 
dish.  When  laying  on  the  uppercrust  wet  and  flour  the  undercrust 
all  around.  Lay  on  the  uppercrust  and  press  the  edge  so  that  the 
flour  and  water  will  make  the  crusts  adhere  and  prevent  the  gravy 
from  escaping.  Pick  the  top  several  times  with  a  fork. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

VEAL  POT  PIE.— Get  the  little  mealy  pieces  of  veal,  put  into 
the  fireless  cooker  kettle,  add  1  onion^  pepper,  salt,  celery  tops  and  1 
stalk,  cover  with  water  and  bring  to  a  good  boil,  put  into  fireless 
cooker  for  6  hrs.  Bring  to  a  boil  over  the  blaze  and  return  to  the 
cooker  for  ^  of  an  hr.  with  dumplings  on  top. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Mc- 
Grath,  315  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VEAL  PUDDING— Cut  2  lbs.  of  veal  into  small  pieces  H  inch 
thick.  Melt  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  on  a  clean  pan  and  lay  in 
the  veal,  a  few  slices  of  bacon,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  season  with' 
pepper  and  salt.  Simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for  10  minutes,  and  then 
add  2  or  3-  tablespoons  of  warm  water.  Boil  up  once  and  set  aside 
to  cool.  Line  a  pudding-dish  with,  suet  crust,  put  in  the  veal  and 
bacon,  and  turn  the  gravy  over  it.  Cover  with  paste,  pressing  firm- 
ly with  the  thumbi  set  the  dish  in  a  pudding  bag  or  cloth,  put  in 
boiling  water  and  boil  constantly  about  1  'hr.,  or  till  done. — Mrs.  L. 
Caldwell,  3660  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

ROAST  VEAL. — Wipe  the  meat,  dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and 
flour,  and  place  it  in  a  pan,  with  some  butter  or  slices  of  salt  pork! 
or  bacon  to  provide  basting  fat.  Roast  20  to  30  minutes  for  every 
lb.  of  veal.  Baste  every  20  minutes^  using  the  liquid  in  the  bottom 
of  the  pan  for  basting  as  soon  as  there  is  sufficient.  Make  a  gravy 
the  same  as  for  any  roast,  using  t'he  liquid  in  the  pan.  This  roast 
is  improved  in  flavor  by  roasting  in  paper  bags. — .Mrs.  S.  J.  Walsh, 
4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VEAL  STEW  WITH  DUMPLINGS.— The  ends  of  the  ribs, 
tfhe  neck  and  the  knuckle  may  be  utilized  for  the  stew.  Take  3  lbs. 
of  veal,  2  small  onions,  5  potatoes,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  cup  of 
milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  the  meat  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  teacup 
and  place  them  in  a  kettle  with  the  onion,  salt  and  pepper,  and 
enough  water  to  just  cover  them.  Simmer  gently  until  the  meat  is 
tender,  about  and  hr.  being  generally  sufficient.     Strips  of  salt  pork 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         353 

are  sometimes  cooked  in  with  the  veal  and  add  much  to  the  flavor. 
Half  an  hr.  before  serving  add  the  potatoes,  cut  in  halves,  and  boil 
them  with  the  meat.  Use  for  the  dumplings:  1  pt.  of  flour,  large  ^ 
tablespoon  of  lard,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
milk  to  moisten.  Stir  the  baking  powder  and  salt  into  the  flour  and 
rub  in  the  lard  with  a  spoon  until  the  whole  is  thoroughly  mixed. 
Add  enough  milk'  to  moisten  the  flour  and  made  a  dough,  taking 
care  not  to  make  the  mixture  too  wet.  Flour  the  baking  aboard, 
roll  the  dough  out  an  inch  thick  and  cut  out  as  for  biscuit.  Put  the 
pieces  on  a  plate,  set  tihe  plate  in  a  steamer  over  a  skimmer,  lilt 
the  meat  and  potato  from  the  kettle  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour, 
stirred  to  a  thin,  smooth  paste,  with  water.  Pour  the  gravy  over 
the  meat  and  dumplings.  If  the  stew  should  seem  quite  boiled 
down,  the  dumplings  should-be  steamed  over  a  separate  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  as  the  rapid  boiling  necessary  for  their  cooking  re- 
duces the  stew  very  much.  Another  mode  of  cooking  the  dump- 
lings is  to  boil  t'hem  in  with  the  stew;  but  they  are  very  apt  to  be 
heavy  unless  served  the  moment  they  are  done.  Steamed  dump- 
lings can  always  be  relied  upon  to  be  light. — Mrs.  James  Cline,  1126 
N.  Clark  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


GAME 


HARE 

HOW  TO  DRESS  BELGIAN  HARE.— Take  the  hare  by 
the  hind  feet,  letting  the  head  hang  downward,  strike  a  blow  on 
the  back  of  the  head;  cut  the  throat  at  once,  letting  out  all  the  blood. 
Hang  up.  Run  the  knife  around  the  first  joint  of  the  hind  legs, 
cutting  the  skin,  and  pass  the  blade  inside  the  thigh  to  the  tail. 
With  the  hand  separate  the  skin  from  the  flesh,  drawing  the  skin 
downward  toward  the  head.  Cut  the  fore-legs  off  at  the  first  joint 
and  pull  up  the  skin.  Use  t^e  knife  carefully  in  skinning  the  head, 
severing  it  at  the  nose  and  lip  and  drawing  it  off.  Slit  the  belly 
lengthwise  and  remove  the  intestines,  but  not  the  kidneys.  Save 
the  liver,  heart,  and  head,  if  preferred,  removing  the  eyeballs. 
Wash  the  body  thoroughly,  and  dry  with  a  cloth. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kel- 
ley,    Winnetka,    111. 

BELGIAN  HARE  STUFFED  AND  BAKED.— Singe  and  wipe 
the  hare.  Fill  either  wit5i  a  potato  or  chestnut  stuffing;  sew  it  up 
carefully  and  put  into  a  baking-pan;  add  to  the  pan  Yt.  cup  of  stocky 
1  teaspoon  of  pepper;  put  into  a  quick  oven  and  bake  1^  hrs.,  bast- 
ing every  ten  minutes.  Turn  the  hare  several  times  while  baking. 
Dish  on  a  deep  bed  of  cress.  Carve,  cut  off  first  the  hind  legs,  then 
the  fore-quarters,  then  the  meat  from  the  saddle.  Pass  with  this 
carefully  cooked  peas  or  asparagus  tips  or  string  beans.  As  a  sup- 
per dish  or  for  luncheons  serve  with  it  a  mayonnaise  of  celery. 
Serve  also  with  black  currant  or  guava  jelly. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter, 
Winnetka,  111. 

BELGIAN  HARE  CUTLETS.— Boil  the  hare  the  same  as  for 
salad.  Ttien  follow  the  recipe  for  chicken  croquettes,  using  the 
water  in  which  the  hare  was  boiled  instead  of  milk.  When  cold, 
form  into  cutlet-shaped  croquettes,  dip  and  fry.  Serve  with  either 
brown  or  tomato  sauce,  and  peas  or  mayonnaise  of  celery. — Mrs. 
E.  D.  Bennett,  Bartlett,  111. 

354 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  355 

FRICASSEED  HARE.— Lay  the  pieces  in  cold  water  a  little 
while,  drain  well  and  place  in  saucepan  with  pepper  and  thin  slices 
of  salt  pork.  Cover  with  water,  and  let  simmer  ^  hr.  Add 
chopped  onion.  Make  a  smooth  flour  paste,  stir  in  and  let  simmer 
until  the  meat  is  tender^  then  add  ^  cup  of  cream.  If  too  thin,  add 
more  flour.  Boil  up  at  once,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

JUGGED  HARE — Skin  one  hare  and  cut  in  pieces,  but  do  not 
wash  it;  dredge  with  flour  and  fry  brown  in  butter,  season  with 
pepper,  salt  and  cayenne.  Have  ready  1^  pts.  of  good  gravy  made 
from  beef.  Put  the  hare  into  a  covered  jar,  add  1  onion  with  4 
cloves  stuck  in  it,  1  lemon,  peeled  and  sliced,  and  pour  over  it  the 
gravy.  Cover  the  jar  closely,  stand  it  in  a  double  boiler  of  cold; 
water,  cook  4  hrs.  if  old,  3  ihrs.  if  young.  When  done  add  1  table- 
spoon of  mushroom  catsup,  2  glasses  port  wine,  and  a  good  piece 
of  butter  rolled'  in  flour;  shake  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  take 
from  jar,  and  serve  with  forcemeat  balls  and  red  currant  jelly. — 
Mrs.  Clark  K.  Mason,  Bensen,  111. 

• 

RABBIT 

TO  SKIN  A  RABBIT  OR  HARE.— Cut  off  the  fore  feet  at 
the  first  joint;  cut  the  skin  around  the  first  joint  of  the  hind  leg, 
loosen  it,  and  then  with  a  sharp  knife  slit  the  skin  on  the  und/er 
side  of  the  leg  to  the  tail.  Loosen  the  skin  and  turn  it  back  until 
it  is  removed  from  the  hind  legs.  Tie  the  hind  legs  together  and 
hang  the  rabbit  on  a  hook  by  this  fastening.  Draw  the  skin  down 
over  the  head,  slipping  out  the  fore  legs  when  they  are  reached. 
Cut  off  the  ends  of  the  nose  and  thus  remove  the  entire  skin. 
Wipe  with  a  damp  cloth,  remove  the  entrails,  saving  the  heart  and 
liver,  wipe  carefully  inside,  and,  if  it  requires  washing,  use  water 
made  acid  with  vinegar. — Mrs.  L.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

BAKED  RABBIT.— Skin  and  clean  carefully.  Lay  it  in  salt 
water  for  an  hr.,  then  scald  with  boiling  water,  wipe  it  dry,  sprin- 
kle with  salt  and  pepper.  Stuff  with  a  dressing  made  of  bread 
crumbs,  chopped  salt  pork,  onion,  pepper,  salt,  and  thyme,  sew 
up;  place  some  slices  of  salt  pork  on  it,  place  it  in  a  baking-pan 


356  GAME 

with  enough  hot  water  to  keep -it  from  burning.  Baste  often. 
Serve  with  mashed  potatoes  and  currant  jelly. — Mrs.  S.  J.  Walsh, 
4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  RABBITS  WITH  RICE.— Cut  a  plump,  young  rab- 
bit into  joints,  and  pepper  highly.  Dissolve  4  oz.  of  bacon  fat  or 
good  dripping  in  a  saucepan,  put  in  the  rabbit,  and  let  it  steam 
over  a  gentle  fire  until  lightly  browned..  Take  it  up,  drain,  and 
put  aside.  Wash  J/$  lb.  of  rice,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  qt.»  of 
nice-flavored  stock  and  Yz  blade  of  mace.  Let  it  simmer  until 
it  is  tender  and  has  absorbed  the  liquor,  let  cool  and  stir  in  a 
large  slice  of  fresh  butter  and  the  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Butter  a  deep 
dish,  lay  the  pieces  of  rabbit  into  it,  pour  over  them  a  large 
spoonful  of  chutney,  and  spread  the  rice  on  the  top.  Lay  the 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  upon  the  rice,  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

BARBECUED  RABBIT.— Wash  the  cleaned  and  beheaded 
rabbit  thoroughly,  and  cut  it  open  all  along  the  underside  of  the 
body.  Make  deep  incisions  across  the  backbone  that  the  heat  may 
penetrate  to  the  center  of  the  flesh.  Spread  the  hare  open  on  a 
hot  platter,  rub  with  butter,  cover  and  keep  warm  in  the  oven 
while  you  make  the  sauce.  In  a  small  saucepan  melt  3  table- 
spoons of  butter,  and  stir  into  it  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  a  tea- 
spoon of  French  mustard,  and  a  teaspoon  of  minced  parsley. 
When  very  hot  pour  the  sauce  over  the  rabbit.  Let  it  stand,  cov- 
ered, in  a  hot  dish  5  minutes  before  serving. — Mrs.  May  C.  May, 
Mayfair,  111. 

BOILED  RABBITS.— They  should  be  very  young.  Wash 
and  clean  very  thoroughlj%  and  fasten  the  heads  to  the  sides.  Put 
into  clear  boiling  water  and  simmer  for  54  or  ^  hr.  Pour  white 
or  onion  sauce  over  them,  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Wheel- 
ing, 111. 

BROILED  RABBITS.— Skin  clean,  wipe  dry,  split  down 
the  back  and  pound  fat;  then  wrap  in  well-buttered  letter  paper. 
place  them  on  a  buttered  gridiron  and  boil  over  a  clear,  brisk  fire, 
turning  them  often.  When  cooked,  serve  on  a  hot  plate,  reason- 
ing with  plenty  of  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  turning  them  over  and 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  357 

over  so  that  they  will  take  up  the  butter. — Mrs,   C.   J.   Canthorn, 
Wilmette,  111. 

FRIED  RABBIT.— Clean,  wash  and  put  into  boiling  water; 
boil  10  minutes,  and  drain;  when  cold  cut  into  joints,  dip  into 
beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Fry  brown  in  butter  and  lay  over  a  moderate  fire.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  pour  in  1  cupful  of  milk 
or  cream;  boil  up  once  and  pour  over  the  rabbit.  Garnish  with 
sliced  lemon,  and  serve  with  onion  sauce. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105 
S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

RABBIT  PIE.— Cut  a  rabbit  into  8  pieces,  soak  in  salted  wa- 
ter %  hr.,  and  stew  until  half  done  in  enough  water  to  cover  it. 
Lay  slices  of  pork  in  the  bottom  of  a  pie-dish  and  upon  these  a 
layer  of  rabbit.  Then  follow  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  peppered 
and  buttered.  Proceed  until  the  dish  is  full,  the  top  layer  being 
bacon.  Pour  in  the  water  in  which  the  rabbit  was  stewed,  and 
add  a  little  flour.  Cover  with  puff  paste,  cut  a  slit  in  the  middle, 
and  bake  1  hr.  If  it  browns  too  fast  lay  paper  over  the  top. — ■ 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

RABBIT  POT-PIE.— Cut  a  rabbit  in  pieces  and  let  stand 
over  night  in  cold  water.  Next  morning  put  in  a  stewpan,  sea- 
son with  cayenne,  pepper  and  salt,  pour  in  a  qt.  of  warm  water 
and  stew  over  a  slow  fire  until  tender,  adding  more  water,  if  nec- 
essary. When  nearly  dune,  add  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut^ 
mix  with  a  spoonful  of  flour.  Add  ^  doz,  ginger  snaps  and  J/4 
cup  of  cream.  Do  not  boil  after  putting  in  the  cream. — Mrs,  Pitt, 
24D  S,  20th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

ROASTED  RABBIT.— Take  a  large  rabbit  and  cut  off  the 
fore  part,  that  is,  from  the  head  down  to  the  loin,  and  makai  a 
civet  of  it.  Lard  the  hind  part  with  pork  and  leave  it  in  the  fol- 
lowing marinade  for  24  hrs.  Set  it  in  a  deep  dish  and  sprinkle  it 
with  pepper.  Cover  it  with  a  few  bay  leaves,  thyme,  sliced  onion 
and  cloves.  Pour  over  it  1  pt.  of  white  wine.  Turn  it  over  3  or 
4  times  during  the  24  hrs.  Take  it  out  of  the  marinade.  Put  it 
in  the  oven  to  bake  for  ^  of  an  hr.,  basting  several  times  with' 
marinade  which  you  serve  in  a  sauce-dish  with  the  meat.  The 
fore  part  would  not  be  good  roasted;  it  would  be  too  dry,  and 


358  GAME 

would  not  be  tender  enough. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

RABBIT  SALAMI — Place  2  rabbits  in  a  baking-pan;  add  1 
slice  of  onion,  1  stalk  of  celery,  cut  fine,  and  1  bay  leaf;  brusti 
the  game  with  melted  butter,  then  cook  for  30  minutes.  Lift  the 
meat  from  the  pan,  add  to  the  pan  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and 
the  same  of  flour,  and  cook  till  brown.  Add  1  pt.  of  hot  water, 
stir  well,  and  when  smooth  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon 
of  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  tablespoon  of  capers  and  12  stoned 
olives.  Lay  the  game,  arrange  the  olives  for  a  garnish,  strain 
the  sauce  over  the  meat,  sprinkle  on  finely  chopped  parsley,  and 
serve. — Mrs.   Roger  Rawlings,   Chicago   Heights,   111. 

SQUIRREL 

BARBECUED  SQUIRREL.— Broil  the  squirrels,  lay  upon  a 
hot  dish,  ribs  downward,  and  cover  with  a  sauce  made  by  heating 
together  4  tablespoons  of  vinegar  with  2  of  butter,  a  teaspoon 
each  of  sugar  and  made  mustard,  Yi.  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and 
pepper.  Boil  1  minute;  pour  over  the  squirrels  and  let  them 
stand,  covered,  10  minutes  before  serving. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth, 
Wiheeling,  111. 

BROILED  SQUIRRELS.— Skin,  clean  and  lay  in  a  marinade 
of  salad  oil  and  lemon  juice  for  1  hr.  Drain,  but  do  not  wipe, 
lay  upon  a  griddle  iron,  wide  open,  ribs  downward.  Broil  over 
clear  coals,  turning  as  they  begin  to  drip.  When  done  remove  to 
a  hot  water  dish,  wash  with  butter  creamed  with  lemon  juice  and 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Cover,  and  let  stand  5  minutes 
before  serving. — Mrs.  C.  E,  Worth,  Wiheeling,  111. 

SQUIRREL  PIE.— Clean  and  joint  the  squirrels,  cutting  the 
backs  into  3  pieces.  Put  6  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  into  a  saucepan, 
fry  3  minutes,  put  in  the  squirrels  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  in 
this  fat,  adding  as  the  meat  begins  to  yellow  a  chopped  onion, 
some  chopped  parsley,  and  a  cup  of  mushrooms;  sprinkle  over 
them  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  add  a  pt.  of  stock,  and  simmer  slowly 
until  the  meat  is  tender,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  1 
minute;  pour  over  the  squirrels  and  let  them  cool  before  putting 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  ^        359 

into  bake-d'ish;  pour  in  a  gravy  formed  by  stewing,  add  a  few- 
more  mushrooms  and  a  couple  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  slices; 
cover  with  a  good  crust,  and  bake  1  hr. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Ben- 
sen,  111. 

ROAST  SQUIRREL.— Clean,  wash,  and  lay  for  1  hr.  in  salad 
oil  and  lemon  juice.  Have  ready  a  large  cup  of  bread  crumbs 
soaked  in  enough  cream  to  moisten  them,  add  a  cup  of  minced 
mushrooms  and  pepper,  salt  and  onion  juice  to  your  taste.  Fill 
the  squirrels  with  this  stuffing,  sew  up  and  truss,  rub  all  over  with 
butter,  lay  in  a  baking-dish,  and  nearly  cover  with  weak  stock. 
When  done,  make  a  piquant  sauce  from  the  gravy  in  the  pan  by 
adding  the  juice  of  Yz  a  lemon,  a  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  paprika  and  salt  to  taste.  BoSl  up  and  pour  into  a  boat. — 
Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

VENISON 

VENISON. — 'Soak  7  or  8  hrs.  in  cold  water,  then  parboil  in  a 
weak  solution  of  soda  water,  and  cook  as  desired.  This  kills  the 
wild  taste. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

FRIED  VENISON  STEAK.— Cut  the  steaks  from  the  breast, 
rub  them  over  with  a  mixture  of  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  wheats 
flour  or  rolled  crackers  and  fry  to  a  rich  brown  on  both  sides  in  ^ 
lb.  of  hot  butter.  Put  them  on  a  dish  and  place  a  tin  cover  over 
them  to  keep  them  warm.  Dredge  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  flou.r 
into  the  butter  in  the  pan  and  stir  till  brown,  pour  in  a  small  cup 
of  boiling  water  with  1  ta'blespoon  of  currant  jelly  dissolved  in 
it,  stir  a  few  minutes,  strain  the  gravy  and  pour  it  over  the  meat. 
--Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

VENISON  PIE. — Stew  gently  until  tender  some  small  pieces 
of  fresh  venison  and  some  slices  of  sweet  potato;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Put  into  a  baking-dish  and  cover  with  a  paste  made 
from  the  drippings  from  a  roast  of  venison,  allowing  Yz  lb.  of  f?it 
to  1  lb.  of  flour.— Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

ROAST  LEG  OF  VENISON.— Wipe  carefully,  draw  off  the 
dry  skin.  Lard  the  lean  side  of  the  leg,  then  soften  with  Yz  cup  of 
butter,  rub  it  on  the  meat  and  dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour. 


360  GAME 

Lay  the  leg  on  the  rack  in  the  baking-pan,  sprinkle  the  bottom  of 
the  pan  with  flour,  place  it  in  a  very  hot  oven  and  watch  carefully 
until  the  flour  in  the  pan  has  browned,  about  5  minutes.  Add  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  after  roasting  15' 
minutes,  baste  the  venison  well,  and  repeat  the  basting  every  IS 
minutes  until  the  meat  is  done,  renewing  the  water  in  the  pan  as 
often  as  necessary.  Should  the  meat  be  liked  very  rare,  allow  for 
a  10-lb.  roast,  1%  hrs.  of  cooking;  but  most  tastes  require  at  least 
15  minutes  longer  than  that.  Serve  with  a  gravy  made  from  the 
juice  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  the  same  as  that  for  roast  beef, 
sending  the  gravy  to  table  in  a  gravy-boat.  Always  serve  cur- 
rant jelly  with  venison.  The  oven  must  be  very  hot  the  first  ^2 
hr.,  and  after  that  the  heat  may  be  lessened  somewhat. — Mrs. 
Frank  Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

SADDLE  OF  VENISON.— Rub  the  meat  thoroughly  with 
melted  butter,  and  wrap  it  in  buttered  paper.  Put  into  a  covered 
roaster  with  a  little  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Allow  at 
least  20  minutes*  roasting  to  every  lb.  of  meat.  Half  an  hr. 
before  the  meat  is  done  remove  the  cover  and  the  paper,  and  cook, 
basting  every  10  minutes  with  butter  and  a  little  melted  currant 
jelly.  At  the  end  of  the  14  hr.  transfer  the  venison  to  a  hot  plat- 
ter; strain  the  drippings  left  in  the  pan,  add  to  them  a  cup  of 
boiling  water^  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  salt,  pepper,  2  tablespoons  of 
butter,  and  the  same  quantity  of  currant  jelly.  When  the  butter 
and  the  jelly  are  melted,  pour  the  sauce  into  the  gravy-boat  and 
send  to  the  taible  with  the  venison.  The  loin,  haunch  and  the  leg 
of  venison  may  be  cooked  in  like  manner, — ^^Mrs.  C.  E.  Jefferson, 
505  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VENISON  STEAK. — It  requires  about  3  minutes  more  time 
to  broil  than  beefsteak,  even  when  tender.  If  doubtful  lay  in 
olive  oil  and  lemon  juice  for  2  hrs.  before  cooking.  Drain,  with- 
out wiping,  and  broil  over  clear,  hot  coals,  turning  often  to  avoid 
scorching.  Take  up,  lay  upon  a  very  hot  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  paprika,  and  spread  on  both  sides  a  mixture  of  butter, 
stirred  up  with  currant  jelly.  Cover  and  leave  over  hot  water  5 
minutes  before  it  goes  to  table. — ^Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  361; 

LEFT  OVER  MEAT 

BAKED  LEFT-OVERS.— 1  cup  cold  meat  (minced),  ^  cup 
bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  butter,  ^  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 
or  sage,  1  very  small  onion,  chopped  fine,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Mix  together,  moisten  with  beaten  eggs.  Bake  in  hot  oven  15  or 
20  minutes.  Serve  with  brown  gravy  or  tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  M. 
Abbott,  2110  Dearborn   St.,   Chicago,   111. 

VARIATION  I.— Put  all  left  over  beef,  pork,  veal,  mutton. 
Iamb  or  other  meat  separately  or  together  through  the  mincing 
machine  with  a  small  onion,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in 
a  bake  dish,  cover  over  with  mashed  potatoes,  then  sprinkle  the 
top  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt  and  brown  in  the  oven.  While  preparing  the 
potatoes,  set  the  dish  with  the  meat  on  the  top  of  the  stove  with 
the  gravy,  if  any  left  over,  or  use  a  good  piece  of  butter  and  hot 
water,  as  the  meat  is  dry.  Or  again  heat  the  meat,  onion  and 
potatoes,  all  together  in  a  frying  pan  on  the  top  of  the  stove. — Mrs. 
S.  Aokermann,  546  E.  37th  St.,   Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Take  the  remnant  of  cold  boiled  leg  of 
mutton  or  of  a  roast  of  beef,  shave  it  into  thin  slices,  season  and 
add,  if  you  like,  an  onion  chopped  fine,  or  a  pinch  of  sweet  herbs. 
Put  this  on  a  baking  dish  and  pour  on  the  gravy,  if  you  have  any; 
if  not,  a  little  water  will  do,  with  a  little  butter  and  flour;  then 
take  hot  boiled  potatoes,  mash  fine,  add  a  little  milk  or  butter  to 
soften  them  into  a  smooth  paste  and  lay  over  the  meat.  Put  the 
dish  in  the  oven  and  bake  to  a  nice  brown. — Mrs.  P.  A.  Bardorf, 
4253  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

MEAT  BALLS. — Take  sufficient  cold  meat  for  a  meal;  bone 
and  chop  it  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  also  allspice  and 
nutmeg  if  liked;  soak  about  Y^  as  much  bread  in  cold  milk,  press 
out  and  mix  with  the  meat;  allow  one  tgg  to  every  three  persons 
and  a  lump  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut;  mix  thoroughly,  roll 
into  balls  and  fry  in  hot  fat.— Mrs.  C.  Baker,  1718  N.  Clark  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Take  5  or  6  boiled  potatoes  and  some  cold 
meat  and  put  through  a  mincer;  thoroughly  mix  potatoes  and 
meat,  then  add  1  t^g,  1  small  onion,  pepper  and  salt.     Form  into 


362  LEFT  OVER  MEAT 

balls  and  cook  in  a  good  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Lydia  Allen,  721  Wells 
St.,  Chicago,  111, 

VARIATION  II — 1  cup  cooked  meat,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice, 
%  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  ^  teaspoon  thyme, 
y%  teaspoon  onion  juice,  pepper,  yolk  of  1  egg;  mix  in  order  given, 
adding  enough  Qgg  to  moisten  meat;  form  in  balls  size  of  a  marble; 
roll  in  flour  and  brown  in  hot  fat. — Mrs.  Mary  E.  Stark,  3753  Ar- 
mour Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BLANQUETTE  OF  HAM  AND  VEAL.— Cut  2  cups  of 
cooked  veal,  or  any  cold  meat,  and  1  cup  of  boiled  ham  in  pieces, 
add  this  with  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  J^  teaspoon  of  curry 
powder  to  2  cups  of  cream  sauce;  when  it  boils  add  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  thoroughly  beaten,  witlh  ^  cup  of  milk,  cook  J/^  minute 
longer;  serve  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced,  and  laid  on  top.  The 
cream  sauce  may  be  made  by  letting  1  pt.  of  cream  come  to  a  boil, 
have  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  mixed  smooth  with  a  little  cold 
cream,  and  add  to  the  boiling  cream;  boil  3  minutes. — Eloise  Jen- 
nings, Winnetka,  111, 

BOILED  AND  STEWED  LEFT-OVERS.— If  cold  roast  beef 
is  rare,  boil  quickly,  and  serve  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  etc.  If 
well  done,  warm  up  in  a  'brown  gravy,  have  the  gravy  hot,  and  put 
the  slices  of  meat  in  it;  don't  let  them  cook  long,  as  cooking  in  a 
gravy  will  make  any  meat  tough.  Then  with  the  rem'aining  scraps 
of  meat,  with  the  bone  and  a  few  vegetables,  make  a  stew,  with 
dumplings. — Mrs.  M.  L,  Baker,  3560  Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111, 

BOYS*  DELIGHT.— Use  any  chopped  cold  roast  meat,  place 
in  a  granite  pan  and  cover  with  stewed  or  canned  tomatoes  and  a 
little  of  the  roast  gravy  or  stock;  cover  with  mashed  potatoes  and 
rolled  biscuit,  and  dot  with  butter.  Bake  ^  of  an  hr.  in  oven.  A 
splendid  supper  dish. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Anderson,  3647  Forest  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

BUBBLE  AND  SQUEAK.— Cut  in  pieces,  convenient  for  fry- 
ing, cold  roast  or  boiled  beef;  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  them. 
Have  a  cabbage  boiled  and  chopped  small  and  fry  with  a  little 
pepper  and  salt.  Keep  stirring,  that  all  may  be  equally  done; 
sprinkle  over  cabbage,  when  taken  from  the  fire,  a  very  little  vine- 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  363 

gar;    place    cabbage    in    center    of   dish    and    arrange    meat    neatly 
round  it.— Mrs.  C.  E.  Barker,  3235  South  Park  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

MEAT  CAKES.— Take  the  odds  and  ends  of  boiled  ham,  chop 
fine,  add  eggs  and  a  little  flour,  mix  and  make  in  flat  cakes  and 
fry  in  a  little  butter  until  brown. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Anderson,  3647  For- 
est Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CECILS. — Stir  together  1  cup  cooked  meat,  chopped  fine,  1 
^SS  yolk,  ^/2  teaspoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  bread  crumbs,  a  few 
drops  onion  juice,  l4  teaspoon  salt,  14  teaspoon  pepper,  1  cup  soup 
stock,  over  the  fire  until  warm,  then  cool,  form  in  ball,  roll  in 
crumbs,  then  egg,  and  fry  in  hot  lard;  serve  with  Bechamel  sauce; 
any  sort  of  meat  may  'be  used  for  this;  t^he  stock  is  to  moisten  the 
mixture,  but  water  or  milk  may  be  substituted. 

Bechamel  Sauce. — Melt  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour, 
pour  on  1  cup  hot  water,  J^  cup  cream,  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg,  ^ 
teaspoon  salt  and  ^  teaspoon  pepper. — Mrs.  W.  L.  Anderson,  128 
E.  38th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHOPPED  LOGIE.— Put  chopped,  fine  cold  meat,  -beefsteak 
or  scraps  of  meat  left  from  table  into  a  frying-pan  with  a  piece  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg.  Slice  3  medium-sized  onions,  fry  these 
brown  and  add  the  chopped  meat,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a 
little  water,  cook  15  or  20  minutes;  just  before  serving  add  1  cup 
of  vinegar,  let  boil,  and  serve. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

CREAMED  MEAT.— To  1  pt.  of  white  sauce  add  y^  teaspoon 
salt,  a  little  pepper,  Ij^^  cups  finely  chopped  meat  of  any  kind. 
When  thoroughly  hot  pour  in  patties  or  tureen,  and  serve. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CREAMED  BEEFSTEAK.— Remove  all  pieces  of  bone  and 
gristle,  chop  fine,  put  in  a  saucepan,  pour  on  boiling  water  to  more 
than  cover  it,  add  plenty  of  'butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Wet  about  2 
tablespoons  of  flour  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  till  smooth. 
Stir  this  ill,  let  it  boil  2  or  3  minutes,  add  a  little  sweet  cream,  if 
you  have  it,  and  pour  over  buttered  toast.  Make  quickly,  as  much 
cooking  spoils  it.  Another  way:  Chop  the  meat  fine,  moisten  a 
cup  of  bread  crumbs  with  sweet  milk,  or  soup  stock,  mash  fine,  add 
1  beaten  egg,  salt  and  pepper.     Mix  all  together,  make  into  little 


364  LEFT  OVER  MEAT 

cakes,  and  fry  'brown  in  hot  butter. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka, 
111. 

CROQUETTES.— Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  stir  in  2 
tablespoons  of  flour  until  smooth.  Add  1  cup  of  milk  and  let  come 
to  boil.  Mix  in  1  cup  of  any  kind  of  left-over  meat,  chopped. 
Season  to  taste.  Form  into  round  or  long-shaped  croquette  balls, 
dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  drop  into  hot  lard,  fry  until 
brown. — Mrs.  Gust  W.  Youngstedt,  403  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  cup  cold,  chopped,  lean  meat  of  any  kind, 
1  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes,  1  small  onion, 
pepper  and  salt  to  suit  taste,  2  eggs,  well  beaten;  mix  well  to- 
gether and  make  in  cakes;  fry  in  a  little  butter  until  well  browned, 
then  turn  until  the  other  side  is  brown.  These  are  nice  for  sup- 
per.— Mrs.  H.  W.  Barquette,  2441  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Chop  sufficient  cold  cooked  meat  to  make 
1  pt.,  add  to  it  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  a  dash  of 
cayenne.  ^  teaspoon  pepper  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg.  Put  Y^  a 
pt.  of  milk  over  the  fire,  rub  together  1  tablespoon  butter  and  2 
tablespoons  flour;  add  them  to  the  hot  milk,  stir  until  you  have  a 
smooth,  thick  paste;  take  from  the  fire,  mix  with  it  the  meat,  and 
let  cool.  Wfhen  cool,  form  in  croquettes,  beat  1  egg,  add  to  it  a 
tablespoon  warm  water,  and  beat  again;  dip  the  croquettes  first 
into  this,  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  them  in  smoking  hot 
fat.— Mrs.  Wm.  Reid,  1215  La  Salle  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BACON  AND  EGG  CROQUETTES.— Take  cold  bacon  and 
eggs  left  over  and  chop  them  fine  in  a  wooden  bowl;  add  a  little 
mashed  or  chopped  cold  potato  and  any  bacon  gravy  that  may 
have  been  left.  Mix,  form  into  balls  or  pats,  roll  in  beaten  ^z^, 
then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  a  pan  the  same  as  eggs.  Brown 
slightly  on  both  sides,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Ellen  O.  Wyatt,  3628, 
S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

RICE  AND  MEAT  CROQUETTES.— Put  1  cup  of  finely 
chopped  meat  (veal  or  oliicken)  on  to  boil,  add  2  tablespoons  of 
butter,  1  cup  of  boiled  rice,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  ^ 
cup  of  milk  or  cream;  when  this  boils,  add  1  ^^z^  well  beaten^  stir 
1  minute;  after  cooling,  shape,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         365 

CURRY  OF  LAMB.— 2  cups  of  chopped  cooked  lamb;  1  table- 
spoon of  orange  juice,  J/^  teaspoon  of  chopped  mint,  1  teaspoon  of 
curry  powder,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  2  cups  of  stock,  2  tablespoons 
of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Brown  the  butter,  add  the 
curry  powder,  meat  and  mint,  and  cook  10  minutes,  or  until  the 
meat  is  well  heated  and  seasoned.  Add  the  flour,  stir  until  brown. 
Add  the  stock,  and  stir  until  the  sauce  has  thickened.  Season,  and 
serve  in  a  rice  border.  In  place  of  a  rice  border,  1  cup  of  boiled 
rice  and  1  of  meat  may  be  used.  Other  kinds  of  meat  may  be  util- 
ized in  this-manner. — Mrs.  Frank  P.  Arnold.  14  E.  42nd  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

DEVILED  MEAT.— Chop  lean  boiled  ham  or  other  meat  very 
fine;  to  each  pt.  of  ham  add  1  teasipoon  mustard,  1  tablespoon  flour, 
Yt.  cup  boiling  water;  press  into  moulds,  to  slice  or  for  sandwiches 
use  the  following  salad  dressing:  1  egg,  well  beaten,  Yt.  cup  sweet 
milk,  or  cream,  1  tablespoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon salt;  cook  all  together  till  thick;  when  cold,  add  J^  cup 
strong  vinegar. — ^Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Bartlett,  5004  Drexel  Blvd.,  Chi- 
cago, 111 

DEVILED  HAM. — Deviled  ham  affords  a  most  satisfactory 
method  of  utilizing  remnants  of  cold  boiled  ham.  Allow  Yz  of  fat 
to  Yz  of  lean;  chop  the  meat  as  finely  as  possible  and  to  every  qt. 
of  it  allow  1  tablespoon  of  wihite  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard, 
1  saltspoon  of  cayenne,  J^  cup  of  vinegar.  Mix  the  seasoning  well 
with  the  meat,  and  press  tjhe  whole  in  a  bowl.  It  is  ready  to 
serve  at  once. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Brown,  3721  S.  La  Salle  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 

DURHAM  CUTLETS.— 3  cups  cold  left-over  beef,  ground 
fine,  with  1  small  onion;  heat  1  cup  milk,  ^  cup  gravy,  thicken 
with  .2  tablespoons  flour;  when  cold,  mix  with  the  meat  and  set 
away  to  cool  in  a  mould.  Cut  in  slices  and  fry. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Dixon, 
3647  Forest  Ave.,   Chicago,   111. 

MEAT  PRICKADILLIES.— 2  cups  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  meat, 
chopped  fine,  2  eggs,  pepper  and  salt.  Wet  it  with  milk  or  gravy. 
Mix  all  and  fry  in  grease  slowly. — Mrs.  Sam  Brown,  3807  S.  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago,  111. 


366         ^  LEFT   OVER  MEAT 

FRIED  LEFT-OVERS.— Cut  the  slices,  not  too  thick,  of  any 
kind  of  left-over  meat,  dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  bread 
or  cracker  crumbs,  or  cornmeal,  then  fry  to  a  nice  brown  in  piping- 
hot  fat;  be  careful  in  turning.  Lay  each  piece  on  a  hot  platter, 
not  heaped  up,  and  garnish  with  greens.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  E.  Free- 
man, 3304  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

MEAT  FRITTERS.— Batter-^Add  34  teaspoon  salt  to  whites 
of  2  eggs,  beat  stifif,  beat  yolks  and  add  J/2  cup  milk  to  1  cup  flour, 
add  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  and  just  before  frying  add  the 
beaten  whites.  Take  1  cup  of  cold  chopped  meat,  >2  cup  of  grated 
bread  crum^bs  or  cooked  rice,  %  teaspoon  of  salt  and  pepper,  add 
the  yolk  of  1  egg,  beaten,  and  enough  warm  water  to  make  the 
'mixture  stick  together;  form  into  balls,  dip  them  into  the  batter 
and  fry  in  hot  lard;  drain  on  paper  in  a  hot  oven.  Oysters  can  be 
drained  and  dipped  in  batter  and  fired. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N  Sth 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

IMITATION  GOOSE. — This  is  a  very  savory  dish  made  from 
the  remains  of  cold  meat.  Make  a  good  quantity  of  sage  and 
onion  dressing,  grease  a  pie  dish  and  place  alternate  layers  of 
dressing  and  small  pieces  of  meat  until  the  dish  is  full,  have  dress- 
ing for  the  top  layer;  have  ready  enough  gravy,  thickened  and  fla- 
vored to  taste,  to  moisten  the  whole.  Bake  about  1  hr. — <Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

GRILLED  BEEF  ON  TOAST.— Melt  a  large  spoonful  of  but- 
ter in  a  skillet,  and  when  it  is  hot  lay  in  slices  of  cold  ibeef  and  let 
them  heat  through.  If  the  beef  "left-overs"  are  not  in  slices,  but 
scraps,  then  chop  coarsely,  and  heat.  Make  a  sauce  of  2  table- 
spoons of  hot  water,  2  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  each  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce  and  tomato  catsup,  1  dessertspoon  of  made  mustard,  H 
teaspoon  of  salt,  1/2  teaspoon  of  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice 
or  vinegar.  If  onion  is  liked,  chop  finely  ]/2  a  medium-sized  on- 
ion, brown  it  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  add.  Thicken  with 
a  tablespoon  of  flour,  rubbed  smooth,  with  a  teaspoon  of  water. 
Lay  delicately  browned  slices  of  hot  'buttered  toast  on  a  hot  plat- 
ter, place  the  grilled  beef  on  the  toast  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 
Serve  hot. — Mrs.  J.  Cunningham,  2735  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         367 

HASH.— Take  any  kind  of  left-over  meat  and  mince  fine,  add 
a  large  onion,  Chen  add  as  many  cold  potatoes  as  the  meat  and 
onions  together,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  fry  in  either  but- 
ter or  dripping.  Add  water,  and  cook  15  minutes.  Serve  hot, 
garnished  with  squares  of  toast. — Mrs,  Clara  Browder,  3849  S. 
State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  HASH. — 1  cup  chopped  meat,  2  cups  chopped  cold 
potatoes,  2  cups  bread  crumbs,  1  small  onion  or  little  sage,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  pour  over  1  cup  sweet  milk,  cover,  and  bake 
slowly  1  hr.— Mrs.  Chas.  Culp,  245  E.  Ohio  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Take  cold  boiled  or  roasted  beef  and  chop 
with  food  chopper  or  a  knife  into  small  bits.  Cut  3  carrots,  1  large 
onion  fine;  have  the  frying-pan  hot  with  good  dripping  or  butter, 
and  1  cup  of  hot  water,  drop  in  the  vegetables  and  boil  until  tender, 
without  the  addition  of  more  water,  then  add  the  meat  and  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste,  and  if  any  gravy  left  over.  If  no  gravy  is  on 
hand,  water  may  be  added,  in  the  proportion  required.  The  quan- 
tity may  be  increased  and  a  very  palatable  soup  made  with  the 
above  ingredients,  to  which  dumplings,  vermicelli,  rice,  noodle  or 
egg  balls  may  be  added,  if  desired, — Mabel  Sturtevant,  *105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ITALIAN  ENTREE.— Slice  remains  of  boiled  or  roast  fresh 
tongue,  and  cover  with  oil  and  lemon  juice,  and  leave  in  the  mari- 
nade for  1  hr.  Then  add  salt,  pepper,  some  sliced  onion,  a  little 
parsley,  and  a  few  mushrooms,  cut  into  halves.  Place  in  a  frying- 
pan  and  cook  slowly  for  about  15  minutes,  moistening  with  a  table- 
spoon of  sherr}^  and  a  little  lemon  juice;  just  before  taking  from 
the  fire,  add  a  little  brown  stock  and  a"  little  tomato  sauce,  well 
seasoned, — Mrs.  Roger  Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  111, 

LEFT-OVER  MEAT  LOAF.— Take  left-over  meat  of  any 
kind,  or  two  or  three  kinds,  and  put  through  a  food  chopper,  sea- 
son same  as  for  ordinary  meat  loaf;  mix  with  bread  crumbs  and  1 
cup  milk,  and  bake  about  ^  hr. — Mrs.  Henry  T,  Lane,  305  S.  4th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— (Served  hot).— Mix  thoroug^hly  2  cups  fine- 
ly chopped  cold  meat,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  eggs,  1  small  onion, 
chopped.     Salt  and  pepper,  place  in  well-buttered  basin,  cover  with 


368  LEFT  OVER  UEKT 

buttered  paper  and  set  in  a  large  basin  of  hot  water;  bake  1  hr.; 
turn  on  a  hot  platter,  and  serve  with  gravy. — Mabel  Sturtevant, 
105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Mix  well  1  pt.  chopped  meat,  6  soda  bis- 
cuits, or  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  onion,  chopped  fine.  Salt  and 
pepper,  pinch  of  sage,  if  desired.  If  lean  meat  is  used  add  a  piece 
of  butter  and  moisten  with  milk  until  it  will  pack  in  a  loaf  in  a 
basin.  Bake  and  serve  hot  for  tea.  This  is  a  nice  dish  for  tea. — 
Mrs.  E.  M.  Fay,  1239  N.  Clark  St..  Chicago,  111. 

.BROWNED  MINCE  MEAT  OF  BEEF.— Heat  the  remains 
of  cold  roast,  %  as  much  mashed  potatoes,  1  cup  gravy,  seasoning 
of  pepper,  salt,  mustard  and  catsup,  very  hot  in  saucepan,  pile  on 
dish,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  put  little  bits  of  butter  over  and 
brown  quickly  in  oven. — Mrs.  Dora  Brown,  3805  S.  Wabash  Ave., 
Chicago,  111. 

MINCED  CORNED  BEEF.— Remove  all  bones  and  gristle 
of  cold  'boiled  corned  beef.  Chop  fine,  with  a  good  proportion  of 
cold  boiled  potatoes.  Fry  3  slices  of  thin  salt  pork  in  a  spider; 
when  crisp  and  brown,  take  it  up,  and  put  in  the  minced  meat  and 
potatoes.  Let  it  cook  20  minutes.  Take  it  up  in  a  covered  dish, 
with  the  slices  of  pork  placed  on  top. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka, 
111. 

FRIED  MINCED  MEAT.— Mince  fine  any  pieces  of  cold 
meat,  mix  with  bread  crumbs,  and  1  well-beaten  egg,  press  together 
and  fry  in  slices  in  hot  fat. — Mrs.  M.  Crowell,  3101  S.  State  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

MINCED  MUTTON  WITH  POACHED  EGGS.— Mince  cold, 
lean  mutton  that  is  free  from  fat  and  gristle.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  place  it  over  the  fire  with  a  little  good  stock;  warm 
well,  but  do  not  boil.  Mash  smoothly  some  hot  potatoes  and  mix 
with  a  little  milk;  make  a  wall  of  them  around  the  platter,  put  the 
mutton  in  the  center,  and  lay  3  or  4  nicely  poached  eggs  on  the 
top. — 'Mrs.  M.  C.  Cauler,  3245  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

MINCE  MEAT  ON  TOAST.— Heat  2  cups  minced  meat,  2 
teaspoons  butter,  2  teaspoons  flour,  2  cups  stock  or  milk,  }4  tea- 
spoon salt,  pepper,  %  teaspoon  Worcestershire  or  onion  juice,  6 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         369 

slices  toast,  in  a  white  or  brown  sauce,   serve   on  toast,  garnish 
with  parsley.— Mrs.  Wm.  Cregar,  742  E.  48th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

MINCE  MOULD.— Put  2  lbs.  of  minced  beef  into  basin;  add 
2  oz.  bacon  and  a  little  parsley,  both  finely  chopped,  2  oz.  bread 
crumbs,  1  beaten  egg  and  ^  of  a  pt.  of  stock.  Put  into  buttered 
mould,  cover  with  greased  paper,  stand  in  saucepan  with  2  inches 
of  boiling  water,  and  steam  2  hrs.  Serve  when  cold. — Mrs.  J.  E. 
Catlin,  2717  S.  Wahash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

MOULDED  HAM  AND  EGGS.— Chop  1  cup  of  cold  boiled 
ham  fine.  Mix  with  J^  cup  of  cream  sauce  and  the  white  of  1  egg, 
beaten  frothy  only.  To  this  may  be  added  as  many  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped  fine,  as  desired.  Eggs  prepared  in  any  way  and  left  over 
may  be  used  instead  of  hard-boiled. — Mrs.  L.  A.  Branch,  3607  S. 
Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VEAL  OMELETTE.— Chop  fine  2  lbs.  veal,  roll  6  or  8  crack- 
ers, and  mix  with  the  veal.  Add  2  eggs,  a  little  chopped  parsley 
and  seasoning.  Make  into  a  roll  and  bake.  Baste  with  butter 
while  it  is  baking. — Mrs.  Geo.  T.  Brado,  3616  Ellis  Park,  Chicago, 
111. 

MEAT  PATTIES  FROM  LEFT-OVERS.— Put  left-over 
meat,  pork  or  beef,  or  any  other  kind,  through  the  meat  chopper; 
to  1  qt.  of  the  minced  meat  add  1  slice  bread,  crumbed,  salt,  pep- 
per and  onion  to  taste,  1  egg,  a  little  sage  or  other  herb,  if  desired; 
mix  all  well  together  and  form  into  patties,  or  balls,  and  fry  a 
golden  brown.  Fish  balls  may  be  made  the  same  way. — Mrs.  Wm. 
Cregar,  742  E.  48th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Take  1  cup  finely  chopped  meat  of  any  kind, 
1  cup  bread  crumbs,  1  egg,  water  enough  to  moisten,  salt  and  pep- 
per .to  taste.  Make  into  small  cakes  and  fry  in  the  frying-pan  in 
which  a  lump  of  butter  or  lard  has  been  melted. — Mrs.  Frank  E. 
Cox,  3805  Wentworth  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PALATE  TICKLERS.— Mince  together  yz  lb.  cold  boiled  ham 
or  other  meat,  2  tablespoons  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  a  dash  of 
cayenne,  a  little  salt,  if  needed,  and  the  yolk  of  1  egg.  Make  a 
paste  of  the  mixture  by  moistening  with  water  or  milk.  Spread 
on  a  flat  dish,  and  with  an  egg  make  four  impressions  in  it  deep 


370  LEFT  OVER   MEAT 

enough  to  hold  an  egg.  Put  an  egg  in  each,  place  the  dish  in  the 
oven  and  bake  till  eggs  are  cooked. — Mrs.  E.  M.  Fay,  1239  N. 
Clark  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Make  a  forcemeat  of  cold  boiled  ham, 
chopped  fine,  and  mixed  with  ^bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt  and  pars- 
ley, and  some  melted  butter;  moisten  with  sufficient  milk  to  form 
the  whole  into  a  soft  paste.  Nearly  fill  a  shallow  dish  with  the 
mixture.  Cover  and  bake  15  minutes,  remove  from  the  oven; 
break  eggs  carefully  upon  the  top;  dust  with  pepper,  salt,  and  final- 
ly powdered  cracker  crumbs;  set  in  the  oven  again  and  'bake  until 
the  eggs  are  well  set. — 'Mrs.  J.  E.  Catlin,  2717  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

CRUST  FOR  MEAT  PIE.— Make  a  rich  dough  by  sifting  1 
level  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt  in  a  pt.  of  flour;  rub  into 
flour  1  tablespoon  lard  and  wet  with  sour  milk  to  a  nice  batter  that 
will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Have  the  meat  prepared  as  for  meat 
pie,  only  have  it  hot  in  dish  when  crust  is  ready.  Take  a  piece  of 
white  paper,  make  a  tube  with  paper,  place  in  center  of  meat  dish 
and  spread  batter  over  top  of  pie.  Bake  J^  hr. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Ca- 
ruthers,  3306  Vernon  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

MEAT  PIE. — Take  any  left-over  of  pot  roast,  stewed  or  boiled 
meat  of  any  kind,  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  place  in  pan  with  gravy 
or  water  (enough  to  almost  cover),  let  come  to  a  boil.  Have  a 
very  soft  biscuit  dough  and  drop  by  spoonful  on  the  meat  until 
well  covered.     Bake.^-Jane  Parker  803  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Take  left-over  meat  and  place  in  baking 
dish,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Pour  over  this 
meat  gravy,  and  heat.  While  this  is  'heating,  make  a  rich  biscuit 
dough  by  sifting  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  1  saltspoon 
salt  into  1  pt.  flour,  run  in  1  tablespoon  lard  and  wet  with  1  scant 
}4  cup  milk;  d-rop  this  by  the  spoonful  on  the  hot  meat  from  the 
oven  and  spread  to  cover  the  pie.  Bake  J^  hr.  By  not  rolling  out 
dough  you  have  a  crust  that  Avill  melt  in  the  mouth. — Mrs.  Ella 
Boswell,  2628  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— 2  lbs.  beef,  pork,  veal,  lamb,  mutton,  or 
any  cold  meat,  put  in  a  baking-disih  and  place  on  top  of  stove. 
Chop  1  large  onion  fine  and  put  in  the  meat  and  allow  it  to  cook 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  371 

until  onion  is  done.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  thicken  with 
2  large  spoonfuls  of  flour,  mixed  with  a  little  water  or  milk.  Take 
from  stove  and  cover  with  pie  crust  or  a  rich  biscuit  crust,  roll 
crust  about  J4  i"ch  thick,  and  put  in  oven  until  crust  is  baked. — 
Mrs.  Wm.  Boss,  169  Locust  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  III. — Line  sides  of  pudding  disih  with  rich  pie 

dough,  cut  meat  in  small  pieces  on  bottom  of  dish,  then  a  layer  of 
thinly  sliced  raw  potatoes,  a  little  onion,  salt  and  pepper,  continue 
with  a  layer  of  meat  and  potatoes,  end  with  meat,  and  cover  with 
a  rich  pie  dough;  put  a  little  water  or  gravy  on  so  it  will  not  burn. 
Bake  ^  hr.  Any  left-over  meat  may  be  used  in  this. — Mrs.  L.  G. 
Bostock,  3300  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

,  POTATO  AND  MEAT  PIE.— Take  1  pt.  of  left-over  meat, 
cut  fine,  put  in  a  large  size  pudding  dish  or  'baking  tin,  and  pour 
over  it  a  dipperful  of  water,  place  on  stove  to  boil.  In  the  mean- 
time peel  and  slice  1  qt.  of  potatoes,  1  good-sized  onion,  then 
make  a  crust,  consisting  of  1  cup  buttermilk,  1  tablespoon  lard,  1 
teaspoon  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  enough  flour  to  roll  out  nicely. 
Put  the  potatoes  and  onion  in  dish  with  the  meat,  and  season  to 
taste.  Put  crust  over  the  ingredients,  and  bake. — Mrs.  Chas.  Culp, 
245  E.  Ohio  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Take  potatoes  and  meat  left  from  dinner, 
cut  together,  add  a  little  sweet  milk,  a  little  butter  or  gravy,  a 
pincih  of  ground  cloves,  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake  in  pie- 
plate,  with  under  and  upper  crust.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  R.  Farley, 
3819  S.  La  Salle  St.,  Chicago,  III. 

TURNIP  AND  MEAT  PIE.— Take  1  pt.  of  left-over  meat 
(pork  preferred),  cut  fine,  1  qt.  small,  thinly  cut  slices  of  turnip, 
put  in  a  large  size  pudding  dish  or  baking-tin  and  pour  over  suffi- 
cient water  to  cook  it  about  20  minutes,  season  to  taste. 
Then  make  a  batter,  consisting  of  1  cup  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  enough  flour  for  batter.  Spread  over 
turnip  and  meat.  Sprinkle  over  batter  fine  pieces  of  fat  pork,  un- 
cooked. Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Cook,  2630 
S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

FARMERS'  PIE.— Take  a  2-qt.  pudding-dish,  slice  a  good 
layer  raw  potatoes,  then  a  layer  of  any  kind  of  cold  meat,  cut  in 


372  •  LEFT  OVER   MEAT 

pieces,  3  or  4  onions,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  sage. 
Any  left-over  gravies,  or  fill  dish  nearly  full  with  water,  set  on 
stove  till  boiling;  make  a  nice,  rich  crust,  put  over  top  and  bake 
till  potatoes  are  done,  and  crust  a  nice  brown. — Mrs.  Wm.  O. 
Everson,  35  E,  22nd  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

COTTAGE  PIE. — Chop  cold  roast  'beef  or  veal  fine.  To  each 
2  cups  of  meat  add  1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  1  teaspoon  fine-cut 
parsley  or  1  tablespoon  chopped  celery,  1  tablespoon  chopped 
^een  peppers,  if  liked,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  Yz  cup  gravy  stock 
or  boiling  water.  Mix  all  together,  pack  in  a  buttered  dish,  cover 
with  a  layer  of  hot,  very  soft  mashed  potatoes,  about  1  inch  thick. 
Brush  the  top  with  milk  or  wthite  of  t^^.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  un- 
til the  potato  is  well  browned. — Mrs.  M.  Evans,  2019  S.  Clark  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cold  roast  beef  cut  in  thin  slices;  then  in 
layers;  add  pepper,  salt  and  a  shake  of  flour,  with  a  bit  of  onion; 
finish  with  mashed  potato.  Make  rich  with  cream  or  milk  and  but- 
ter, and  bake  slowly. — ^^Mrs.  Geo.  Carey,  235  E.  35th  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 

VARIATION  II. — Chop  the  remains  of  a  roast  of  beef,  or  any 
kind  of  meat,  mix  with  Y^  lb.  of  minced  'ham,  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  if  desired,  add  chopped  onion, 
moisten  with  gravy,  and  bind  with  a  beaten  t.^^  or  two.  Make 
some  pie  paste,  not  too  rich,  roll  out  in  an  oblong  sheet,  put  the 
beef  mince  in  the  middle,  make  the  pastry  into  a  long  roll,  enclos- 
ing the  meat,  close  the  ends  with  pieces  of  the  pastry,  and  pinch 
the  edges  well  together  after  moistening  them,  place  in  a  dripping- 
pan  the  joined  side  of  the  roll  downward,  and  bake  until  a  nice 
•brown.  If  there  is  not  enough  meat  use  cold  mashed  potatoes  or 
rolled  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  and  moisten  with  gravy. — Mrs. 
Gus  Evans,  2019  S.  Clark  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SHEPHERD  PIE.— Spread  over  a  small  platter,  thoroughly 
buttered,  warm  mashed  potatoes,  mixed  with  enough  milk  to  make 
it  a  little  soft,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  When  stiffened 
enough,  and  as  browm  as  pie  crust,  pour  over  it  minced  cold  mut- 
ton, warmed  in  a  little  thickened  gravy.  Is  a  nice  breakfast  dish. 
—-Mrs.  J.  R.  Bogen,  2722  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


COO'K  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  373 

VARIATION  I. — Cut  any  kind  of  meat  in  dice  (veal  is  espe- 
cially nice),  add  onion  or  any  preferred  seasoning.  Stew  and  thick- 
en with  flour.  Have  cold,  creamed  potatoes,  butter  the  bake-dish, 
put  layer  of  meat  and  then  layer  of  potatoes,  and  repeat  till  dish  is 
filled,  having  potatoes  on  top.  Put  a  few  dots  of  butter  on  top  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.— Mrs.  B.  Callahan,  1020  N.  Clark  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 

VARIATION  II. — Have  1  cup  cold  chopped  meat,  1  cup 
mashed  potatoes,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  2  tablespoons  milk,  1 
teaspoon  butter,  ^4  cup  gravy  or  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  po- 
tatoes with  inilk  and  butter  and  line  baking-dish,  fill  in  other  in- 
gredients, and  cover  with  potatoes.  Bake  until  thrown. — Mrs.  A. 
Cohen,  454  E.  38th  Place,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  III.— Take  some  left-over  beef,  put  through  the 
chopper,  also  1  onion,  chopped.  Slice  some  cold  potatoes,  put  po- 
tatoes and  meat  in  a  little  dish,  a  layer  of  each  alternately,  season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  sage  or  summer  savory,  if  desired. 
Pour  over  all  beef  gravy,  also  a  little  butter.  Cover  with  a  close 
lid  and  bake  in  oven. — Mrs.  Arthur  Blakely,  3217  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  IV.— Fry  1  sliced  onion  in  ^  of  a  cup  melted 
butter  until  a  golden  brown.  Add  J4  cup  flour,  cook  until  frothy, 
then  stir  in  gradually  1  pt.  of  brown  stock,  season,  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Cook  8  minutes,  stir  in  3  cups  cold  meat,  cut  into  smail 
pieces.  Mix  well,  then  turn  into  a  buttered  ibaking-dish,  cover  with 
seasoned  hot  mashed  potato,  brush  with  egg  and  brown  in  the 
oven. — Mrs.  Geo.  R.  Edmonds,  424  E.  39th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  v.— Have  1  cup  cold  mince  meat,  1  small  onion, 
^2  cup  gravy,  y^  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  mashed  potatoes,  }4  cup  hot 
milk,  ^2  teaspoon  butter,  pepper.  Put  meat,  onions  (chopped 
fine),  gravy,  salt  and  pepper  into  a  baking-dish.  Heat  milk  and 
butter  together  and  beat  them  into  mashed  potatoes.  Cover  meat 
w^ith  potatoes,  smoothing  with  a  wet  knife.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  brown. — Mrs.  B.  Basil,  2906  Vernon  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

TOMATO  MEAT  PIE.— Cover  bottom  of  meat  dish  with 
bread  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  cold  meat,  chopped  fine,  then  a  layer 
of  tomatoes,  sliced.     Repeat  as  before,  having  crumbs  on  the  top. 


374  LEFT   OVER  MEAT 

Season  highly  with  bits  of  butter  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Bake 
until  brown,  and  serve  <hot. — Mrs.  H.  Dukes,  3618  S.  State  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

PILAFF  OF  MEAT.— i^  cup  of  rice,  2  cups  of  chopped  cold 
lamb,  2  tablespoons  of  butter.  Boil  the  rice  in  plenty  of  boiling, 
salted  water  for  20  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Drain  and  mix  with 
the  finely  chopped  meat,  which  should  be  seasoned  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  a  few  drops  of  celery  extract.  Add  the  'butter,  melted, 
and  when  the  meat  is  heated  turn  the  rice  and  meat  into  a  greased 
tin  mold.  Place  in  the  oven  for  10  minutes,  or  until  the  pilaff  will 
keep  its  form  when  turned  out  of  the  mold.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce. — Mrs.  Sadie  Bryant,  3120  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

POTTED  HAM. — Mince  cold  cooked  ham,  mixing  lean  and 
fat  together;  pound  in  a  mortar,  seas-oning  at  the  same  time  with  a 
little  cayenne  pepper,  pounded  mace  and  mustard.  Put  into  a  dish 
and  place  in  the  oven  for  J^  hr.;  afterward  pack  it  into  pots  or 
little  stone  jars,  covering  with  a  layer  of  clarified  butter  (luke- 
warm), tying  bladders  or  paste  paper  over  them.  This  is  con- 
venient for  sandwiches.  The  butter  may  be  used  again  for  basting 
meat  or  for  making  meat  pies. — Mrs.  Jennie  Austin,  3826  S.  La 
Salle  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

PRESSED  BEEF.— Put  through  food  chopper,  1  cup  cold 
roast  beef  and  1  hard-boiled  egg;  add  1  teaspoon  mustard,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Moisten  the  whole  with 
vinegar,  and  press.  The  amount  may  be  doubled  as  often  as  liked 
for  larger  quantity. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christian,  21  W.  37th  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

MEAT  PUDDING.— In  a  buttered  dish  spread  alternate  lay- 
ers of  rice  or  macaroni,  tomatoes  and  chopped  meat  (left-overs). 
Put  a  cup  of  rice,  cover  the  top  with  powdered  bread  crumbs. 
Bake  14  hr. — Mrs.  Frederic  Sharp,  700  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

RICE  WITH  MEAT.— Boil  1  cup  rice  until  tender  in  salted 
water,  line  a  mould  ^  an  inch  deep,  chop  any  kind  of  cold,  ten- 
der meat,  season  to  taste,  add  1  beaten  egg,  2  tablespoons  cracker 
crumJbs,  moisten  with  hot  water  or  stock,  pack  in  the  mould  or 
cover. with  rice;  steam  45  minutes;  t\irn  out  on  platter,  -pour  to- 
mato sauce  over.     This  is  also  good  with  potatoes  in  place  of  rice; 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         375 

have   them   cooked   and   mashed,   and   either   baked   or   steamed. — 
Mrs.  K.  Berry,  3600  S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 2  cups  chopped  meat,  1  teaspoon  salt,  J4  tea- 
spoon pepper,  %  teaspoon  onion  juice,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 
1  tgg  (may  be  omitted,  however),  ^  cup  fine  bread  crumbs,  4 
cups  boiled  rice,  stock.  Season  the  meat  and  mix  with  the  crumbs 
and  beaten  o^gg;  add  enough  stock  to  make  it  pack  easily.  Line  a 
buttered*  dish  with  3  cups  rice,  fill  with  the  meat,  cover  with  the 
remainder  of  rice,  cover  tightly,  and  steam  45  minutes.  Serve 
with  tomato  sauce.  1  cup  raw  rice  will  give  the  4  cups  boiled  rice. 
This  dish  is  particularly  good  if  mutton  is  used. — Mrs.  Oscar  J, 
Bannan,  1222  N.  Clark  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — 1  cup  boiled  rice,  1  cup  finely  chopped  left- 
over meat  (beef),  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  butter,  ^  cup 
milk,  1  egg',  put  milk  on  to  boil,  add  meat,  rice  and  seasoning; 
when  boiling,  add  'beaten  tgg. — Mary  R.  Clark,  2520  S.  Wabash 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BEEF  RISSOLES.— Mix  well  together  the  remains  of  any 
cold  meat,  minced,  about  the  same  quantity  of  mashed  potatoes; 
add  a  teaspoon  of  dried  thyme,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  up 
an  tgg,  and  add  to  the  mixture,  form  into  balls,  rub  them  in  bread 
crumbs  or  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. — Mrs.  Arthur  Blakely,  3217  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

MEAT  ROLLS. — Take  any  little  pieces  of  cooked  meat, 
and  mince  them,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  onion,  or  cur- 
ry powder,  according  to  taste.  Make  a  crust  with  cold  potatoes, 
flour,  a  little  milk,  a  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Roll  out,  put  the 
meat  inside  the  crust.  Make  into  rolls,  put  into  oven  to  brown. — 
Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Gaines,  3148  Groveland  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BEEF  AND  POTATO  SANDWICHES.— Fry  slices  of  cold 
corned  beef  on  buttered  bread,  press  over  another  slice,  thickly 
mashed  potatoes,  press  it  down  on  the  meat  with  a  knife.  Dip  the 
whole  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  drippings  a  very  light 
brown,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

SAVORY  LEFT-OVERS.— Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  a 
frying-pan,  slice  an  onion  in;  when  cooked,  add  slices  of  cold  meat; 
cover  closely  a  few  minutes,  until  meat  is  thoroughly  heated,  then 


376  LEFT  OVER  MEAT 

if  you  have  left-over  gravy,  add  it,  seasoning  to  taste;  if  not,  add 
stewed  tomatoes;  let  come  to  boil,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  L.  C.  Haz- 
lett.  111  E.  Ohio  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SAUSAGE  LEFT-OVERS.— Sift  together  three  times  2  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  J4  teaspoon  salt;  work  in  2 
to  4  tablespoons  shortening,  and  add  milk  or  water  to  make  a 
dough.  Roll  into  a  thin  sheet,  cut  into  squares  or  rounds,  accord- 
ing to  shape  of  sausage.  Lay  cold,  cooked  sausage  on  the  pieces 
of  paste,  brush  half  the  paste  with  cold  water,  and  fold  to  cover 
sausage.  Bake  20  minutes.  Serve  hot. — Miss  Frieda  Zeeb,  208  N. 
2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SCALLOPED  MEAT.— Take  any  kind  of  meat  scraps,  or  only 
one  kind  of  meat,  chop  fine,  put  a  layer  in  a  scalloping-pan,  then  a 
layer  of  mashed  or  chopped  potatoes,  salt,  pepper,  and  onion,  and 
then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Repeat  this  until  the  dish  is  full, 
being  sure  that  the  top  layer  has  the  bread  crumbs,  then  add 
enoug'h  gravy  to  just  reach  the  top,  and  bake  an  hr.  or  IJ^  hrs. — 
Mrs.  B.  Jackson,  44  W.  35th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

MEAT  SCALLOP.— Have  1  tablespoon  butter,  J^  teaspoon 
onion  (minced),  1  tablespoon  flour,  Yz  cup  hot  water,  1  cup  cold 
meat,  chopped  fine,  mashed  potatoes.  Put  butter  and  onion  in  sauce- 
pan, set  on  stove;  when  hot,  add  flour,  and  stir  until  smooth,  add' 
water  and  season  to  taste.  Mix  cold  meat  and  mix  all  together, 
put  in  baking-dish  and  cover. — 'Mrs.  W.  W.  Lipps,  651  E.  50th  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Grind  up  left-overs  of  meat  and  put  in  indi- 
vidual vegetable  dishes  and  season,  and  break  an  tgg  over,  and 
salt  and  pepper.  Sprinkle  cracker  crumbs,  and  put  bits  of  butter 
on  top,  and  set  in  oven  to  bake. — ^Mrs.  Marie  Humphrey,  3446  S. 
State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

HAM  AND  EGGS  SCALLOPED.— Chop  cold  boiled  ham  and 
bread  crumbs  in  equal  quantities;  add  salt,  pepper,  and  1  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter  to  each  cup  of  the  mince,  with  milk  to  moisten. 
Fill  muffin  pan  half  full.  Break  an  t^g  on  the  top  of  each.  Dust 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  powdered  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  10  min- 
utes.    Mrs.  David  Harvey,  1449  S.  State  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         377 

SCRAMBLED  MEAT.— Put  fried  ham  through  meat  cutter 
and  beat  eggs  a  little.  Put  ham  in  spider,  with  milk  and  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.  Cook  as  for  scrambled  eggs. — Mrs.  B.  Grass,  533 
E.  43rd  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Hash  up  any  left-over  meat,  stir  into  eggs, 
and  put  into  a  hot  frying-pan.  When  less  eggs  are  used  substitute 
milk. — Mrs.  Chas.  Horn,  1024  La  Salle  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SCRAMBLED  MUTTON.— Chop  3  cups  cold  boiled  mutton 
fine,  and  put  upon  the  fire  with  ^  cup  butter  and  3  cups  hot  water; 
when  hot  break  in  4  eggs,  and  stir  constantly,  until  it  thickens. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  serve  on  toasted  'bread. — Mrs.  D.  E. 
Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

SCALLOPED  MUTTON.— 1  pt.  of  cold,  chopped  meat,  V, 
teaspoon  of  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  hutter,  1  tea- 
spoon of  .flour,  1  cup  of  water.  Chop  the  meat  rather  coarsely,  add 
salt  and  pepper.  Heat  the  butter,  and  stir  in  the  flour;  when 
browned  darkly,  add  the  water,  and  season  with  gravy  thus  made 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange  alternate  layers  of  meat  and  gravy 
in  a  baking-dish,  using  3  layers  of  gravy  and  2  of  the  mutton. 
Cover  the  top  with  a  slig'ht  sprinkling  of  bread  crumbs,  and  bake 
20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  This  dish  may  be  prepared  the  day 
before,  if  needed  for  breakfast,  and  set  in  a  cold  place. — ^Mrs.  F.  B. 
Hannah,  4045  Armour  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

MEAT  SOUFFLE.— Have  1^  cups  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
1^  tablespoons  flour,  a  little  onion  juice,  y^  teaspoon  salt  and 
pepper  each;  stir  \x\  Xy-z  cups  chopped  meat  (chicken,  lamb,  tongue, 
beef,  or  any  other  meat).  While  cooking,  add  beaten  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  cook  1  minute  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cool,  add  'beaten 
whites  (stiff).  Bake  20  minutes  in  buttered  pudding  dish. — ^Mrs. 
H.  A.  Klein,  12  E.  48th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  STEW.— With  any  left-over  meat.  Cut  meat  in 
pieces,  lay  in  haking-dis'h,  slice  an  onion,  add  a  sprinkling  of  sage, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Fill  dish  to  top  with  sliced  raw  pota- 
toes. Add  gravy  or  water,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  Xy^  hrs. — Mrs. 
Elizabeth  Marrs,  55  E.  36th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

LEFT-OVER  STEW.— Take  what  is  left  from  a  roast,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  put  in  a  stewpan  and  cover  with  plenty  of  water,  sea- 


378  LEFT  OVER  MEAT 

son  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stew  from  20  to  30  minutes.  Flavor 
with  onion,  cut  in  small  pieces,  if  desired.  Toast  2  slices  of  bread, 
cut  in  small  squares,  and  put  on  platter,  thicken  the  stew  with 
flour,  and  pour  over  toast.  Serve  hot. — ^Mrs.  Martin  Logan,  2841 
South  Park  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SPANISH  STEW  FOR  ODD  BITS  OF  MEAT.— Cut  2  on- 
ions into  small  pieces;  fry  tender  (not  brown),  and  add  1  pt.  of 
cold  beef  or  lamb,  cut  small,  a  qt.  of  tomatoes,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Stew  until  the  tomatoes  are  thick. — iMrs.  C.  J.  Jefifries, 
Winnetka,  111. 

TOAD  IN  THE  HOLE.— ^  lb.  -beef,  mutton,  sausage,  or  oth- 
er cold  meat,  pepper  and  salt,  butter,  1  egg.  ]4  lb.  flour.  %  pt.  milk. 
If  beef  or  mutton  is  used,  cut  it  into  pieces  about  an  inch  square: 
if  sausage  is  used,  prick  them  and  (boil  them  2  or  3  minutes,  and 
remove  the  skin.  Grease  a  pie  dish,  put  the  meat  or  sausage  at 
the  bottom,  sprinkle  seasoning  over  it.  Make  the  batter  as  for 
pancakes,  pour  it  over  the  meat  and  bake  in  hot  oven  for  ^4  hr. — 
Mrs.  E.  C.  Hubbard,  3257  South  Park  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

HAM  TOAST. — Mince  cold  boiled  ham  very  fine;  stir  in  a  pt. 
of  cream  or  butter,  if  preferred,  add  2  eggs,  well  beaten.  Boil 
and  pour  over  nicely  browned  toast.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Wm. 
Hughes,  361  Institute  Place,  Chicago,  111. 

TORTILLA  OF  HAM.— Put  5^  lb.  cooked,  chopped  ham  in 
a  pan  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Pour  in  3  well-beaten  eggs, 
season,  and  stir  for  a  moment,  let  the  tortilla  set,  being  carefu,! 
that  it  does  not  adhere  to  the  pan.  When  it  is  a  little  brown,  turn 
and  brown  the  other  side. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

LEFT-OVER  MEAT  IN  WHITE  SAUCE.— Make  a  white 
sauce  of  2  cups  milk,  1  tablesp.oon  each  of  butter  and  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon salt  and  1  saltspoon  pepper,  add  ^  cup  stale  bread  crumbs. 
Cook  .2  minutes,  then  add  2  cups  (chicken,  beef,  pork,  lamb,  or 
mutton,  or  other  meat),  chopped  fine,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten, 
1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  and  last  of  all  the  whites  of  3  eggs, 
beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  buttered  dish  35  minutes. — Mrs.  M.  Martin, 
917  W.  Monroe  St.,  Chicago, -111. 


VEGETABLES 


GENERAL  RULES 

Wash  thoroug-hly,  scrape,  pare  or  peel,  if  skins  must  be  re- 
moved. Stand  in  cold  water  until  cooked,  to  keep  them  crisp  and 
to  prevent  them  being  discolored.  Cook  in  boiling  water;  the 
water  must  be  kept  at  a. 'boiling  point.  Use  2  teaspoons  salt  with 
2  qts.  water;  put  the  salt  into  the  water  when  the  vegetables  are 
cooked  partially.  The  water  in  which  vegetables  are  cooked  is 
called  vegetable  stock.     Never  Use  potato  stock. 

Fresh  green  vegetables  require  less  water  than  others. 

Strong  vegetables,  as  cabbage,  cauliflower,  onions  and  turnips, 
should  be  cooked  uncovered  in  a  large  amount  of  water. 

All  vegetables  must  be  drained  as  soon  as  tender. 

THiE  AUTHOR. 


ASPARAGUS— CREAMED.— Clean  and  cut  into  quarters  1 
or  2  bunches  of  asparagus.  Boil  in  salt  water.  In  another  pan  put 
1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour.  Pour  this  over  the  aspara- 
gus, add  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. — ^Mrs,  Schmalzried,  Maywood, 
111. 

ASPARAGUS  SHORTCAKE.— Sift  3  times  2^  cups  flour,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  and  2J^  teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  work  in  J/2  cup 
shortening,  and  mix  to  a  dough  with  sweet  milk,  knead  lightly, 
and  roll  out  to  fit  a  large  layer  cake-ipan.  Bake  aibout  20  minutes. 
Split  the  cake  and  spread  each  half  with  butter.  Have  the  tender 
portion  of  the  asparagus  cut  in  inch  lengths,  cook  tender.  Make  a 
drawn  butter  sauce  of  a  cup  of  flour,  J4  cup  butter,  ^  teaspoon 
salt  and  the  asparagus  liquid.  Place  half  of  this  sauce  on  the  but- 
tered halves  of  the  cake.  Press  the  other  half  on  top,  and  serve 
with  the  remaining  cream  sauce,  peas,  lentils,  okra,  string  beans, 
corn,  succotash,  chopped  beets,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  in  fact  almost 
any  vegetables  may  be  served  in  this  manner. — Mabel  Sturtevant, 
105  S.  Dearborn  St,,  Chicago,  111. 

379 


380  VEGETABLES 

BOILED  ARTICHOKES.— The  Jerusalem  artichoke  should 
be  washed  well  in  several  waters  and  picked  over  carefully  to  see 
that  no  insects  are  about  them.  Trim  the  leaves  at  the  bottom. 
Cut  off  the  stems  and  put  the  artichokes  into  'boiling  water  with  a 
heaping  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  a  piece  of  soda  size  of  a 
quarter.  Keep  the  saucepan  uncovered,  and  let  them  boil  quickly, 
until  tender.  When  done  you  can  thrust  a  fork  through  them. 
Take  out  and  drain,  serve  with  white  sauce  poured  over  them, 
made  of  flour,  butter,  new  milk,  2  small  onions,  cut  up  thin,  and 
pepper.  A  tureen  of  melted  butter  should  accompany  them.  It 
takes  25  minutes  to  cook. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRIED  ARTICHOKES.— Boil  the  ^tichokes  8  to  10  minutes, 
lift  out,  drain  on  a  sieve,  and  let  them  cool.  Dip  into  beaten  egg, 
cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  fry  a  light  brown,  drain,  pile  in  hot 
dis-h,  and  serve  quickly. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS.— Soak  1  qt.  beans  over 
night,  bring  to  a  boil  in  cold  water  and  drain.  Boil  30 
minutes  and  drain.  Put  in  a  stone  jar  J4  teaspoon  mus- 
tard, 1  onion,  season  beans  with  salt,  put  into  the  jar  and  pint 
1  lb.  of  pork  on  top,  add  a  little  molasses  and  brown  sugar.  Fill 
jar  full  of  cold  water  and  bake  nearly  all  day,  without  cover. — 
Mrs.  Clara  Stone,  228  S.  16th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PLAIN  BAKED  BEANS.— To  those  who  tire  of  baked  beans, 
or  whose  stomachs  cannot  digest  beans  or  pork,  try  the  following: 
Boil  2  cups  common  beans  until  tney  crack,  drain,  add  melted  but- 
ter, pepper,  and  salt;  mash  with  potato  masher,  put  in  your  pud- 
ing-pan  or  baker,  add  the  liquid  from  a  can  of  tomatoes,  cover 
thickly  -with  ground  peanuts,  then  a  layer  of  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  with  dots  of  butter,  bake  in  even  oven  until  brown.  .Good 
either  hot  or  cold. — E.  G.  Hattis,  Winnetka,  111. 

BAKED  BEANS. — Soak  1  qt.  small  white  beans  over  night. 
The  next  morning  boil  in  water.  Do  not  boil  until  the  skins 
crack;  to  test  them  blow  on  a  spoonful;  if  done  enough  the  skins 
will  crack.  Put  the  beans  into  a  colander,  pour  cold  water  through 
them  and  let  drain.  Cut  thin  slices  from  a  lb.  of  sweet  pork  to 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  bean  jar.  On  the  slices  lay  some  thin 
slices  of  raw  onion.     Mix  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  1  teaspoon 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  381 

ground  mustard  in  a  saucer;  mix  this  with  the  beans  as  you  put 
them  in  the  pot;  score  the  top  of  the  pork  and  place  in  the  center 
of  the  beans,  the  rind  level  with  the  top  of  the  beans.  Fill  up  with 
water  and  cover.  Bake  several  hours,  add  salt,  if  necessar\^  Do 
not  stir;  if  more  water  is  needed,  use  'boiling  water. — Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  III. 

MOCK  BAKED  BEANS.— 5  cups  beans,  washed  and  soaked 
over  night,  put  into  a  crock,  slice  3  nice  sized  onions  and 
place  on  top  of  beans,  add  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  heaping  tea- 
spoon salt,  cover  with  water,  and  add  more  from  time  to  time,  as 
required,  to  keep  them  covered.  Place  on  top  of  the  stove,  un- 
covered, all  day,  and  do  not  allow  to  boil.  Serve  as  baked  beans. — 
Mrs.  Frank  E.  Daily,  4133  Kenmore  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  BLACK  BEANS.— Parboil  in  several  waters,  with  a 
little  soda,  or  boil  for  an  hour  and  rinse  thoroughly  through  sev- 
eral waters.  Boil  until  soft.  Fry  3  thin  slices  of  bacon,  and  add 
to  it  a  little  stock.  Season  with  chutney,  mushroom  catsup,  an- 
chovy essence,  or  any  other  seasoning  desired,  and  reheat  the 
drained  beans  in  this  sauce. — Mrs.  Fred  A.  Daley,  6361  Sheridan 
Rd.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  GREEN  BEANS.— Green  beans,  too  hard  to  be 
cooked  in  the  pods,  may  be  shelled.  Cook  them  in  boiling  water, 
drain  well,  and  serve  with  butter  or  cream  sauce.  These  are  the 
best  to  combine  w;ith  corn  to  make  the  old-fashioned  Southern  suc- 
cotash.— Ma'bel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  LIMA  BEANS.— Wash  in  cold  water  and  boil  in 
salted  water  until  tender.  If  dried  ibeans  are  used,  they  must  be 
soaked  over  night.  Drain,  mix  with  melted  butter,  season  to  taste, 
and  serve.  Cream,  lemon  juice  or  stock  may  be  added. — Mrs.  Ar- 
thur E.  Ederer,  6347  Kenmore  Ave.,  Chicago,  111, 

BOILED  PORK  AND  BEANS.— Wash  and  score  deeply  a 
lb.  of  fat  salt  pork.  Boil  for  Yz  an  hr.  At  the  same  time  boil  until 
soft  in  water  to  cover  a  qt.  of  dried  beans  which  have  been  soaked 
over  night  and  to  which  a  pinch  of  soda  has  been  added.  When 
the  beans  are  soft,  drain,  and  put  a  layer  into  the  bean  pot.  Lay 
the  pork   upon  the  beans,   sprinkle   with   sugar,   and   bake   brown, 


382  VEGETABLES 

adding  boiling  water,  as  needed.     Beans  are  good  without  baking. 
— Mrs.  John  Hansen,  1408  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BOILED  STRING  BEANS.— Cut  or  snap  off  ends,  remove 
strings,  cut  or  snap  into  ^  inch  pieces.  Wash  in  cold  water.  Par- 
boil, if  desired,  for  15  minutes,  in  boiling  water  in  which  a  level 
teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  dissolved  for  each  2  qts.  of  beans. 
Drain  and  cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  and  cook  until  tender, 
season  w^ith  salt  toward  the  last.  Drain,  add  a  little  pepper,^  and 
serve  with  melted  butter,  and  moisten  with  cream.  Ham,  bacon, 
or  salt  pork  may  be  boiled  with  them,  if  desired, — Mrs,  John  Han- 
sen, 1408  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CANNED  BEANS. — Prepare  the  beans  as  for  cooking,  pack  in 
glass  jars;  fill  the  jars  with  cold  water;  let  them  stand  for  2  hrs., 
then  fill  the  cans  to  overflowing  with  cold  water  and  seal.  Place 
strips  of  wood  in  a  boiler,  set  the  cans  on  these,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  bring  to  the  boil.  Boil  for  3  hrs.  Let  the  cans  get 
cold  before  removing  them  from  the  water.  Wipe  each  can  dry, 
dip  the  lid  in  melted  paraffin  and  put  in  a  cool,  dark  place, — Mrs, 
Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CREAMED  LIMA  BEANS.— Soak  over  night  1  cup  dried 
lima  beans,  drain  and  cook  slowly  in  salted  water  until  soft,  drain, 
add  }i  cup  cream,  salt  and  pepper.  Reheat  before  serving.  When 
cooked  they  may  be  popped  from  their  skins  before  adding  the 
cream.  A  cream  sauce  may  be  made  and  the  beans  added  to  it, 
and  reheated.  Any  kind  of  bean  is  good  served  this  way.  Navy, 
river,  red,  black,  kidney,  Mexican  Frijoles,  and  allthe  other  va- 
rieties of  the  bean  family. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

LIMA  BEAN  SUCCOTASH.— Boil  2  cups  of  freshly  picked 
Lima  Beans  in  1  qt.  of  water  for  ^  an  hr.,  then  drain  them  and 
add  1  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  enough  green  corn 
cut  from  the  cob  to  make  2  cups.  Season  well,  and  let  simmer  for 
15  minutes,  add  salt  again  before  serving.  If  canned  corn  and 
canned  beans  are  used  they  need  be  cooked  for  only  10  minutes. — 
Mrs.  Edward  D.  Edgerton,  6517  Lexington  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BEANS  AND  MEAT.— Cut  either  fresh  or  left-over  bacon, 
harh  or  salt  pork  into  round  bits,  and  fry  brown,  with  a  little  grated 


GQOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         383 

onion,  add  any  kind  of  left-over  string  'beans,  lima,  white  or  black 
beans,  reheat  thoroughly,  and  serve.  Cold  beans  may  be  made 
palatable  by  warming  up  in  a  frying-pan  in  butter,  with  any  kind 
of  left-over  meat. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 

BEAN  PIE. — Wash  a  pt.  of  white  beans,  and  boil  in  soft  water 
till  tender,  but  not  done;  ta'ke  any  left-over  meat  scraps,  mince  fine, 
add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  small  cup  of  vinegar;  put  all 
in  a  bake  dish,  and  bake  1  hr.  Serve  hot. — (Mrs.  Amelia  Edison, 
4356  Berkeley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BEAN  SOUFFLE.— Take  any  left-over  beans,  boiled,  ibaked 
or  creamed.  Drain,  press  through  a  colander,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  butter,  add  4  tablespoons  of  hot  milk,  and  beat  until 
very  light.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  turn  into  a 
buttered  baking  dish,  and  bake  for  20  minutes.  The  milk  may  be 
omitted,  and  2  whole  eggs  used. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago,  111. 

STRING  BEANS.— Wash,  string  and  cut  the  beans  in  very 
fine  pieces.  Cook  in  salted  water  until  tender,  pour  oft  half  the 
water,  and  add  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Thicken  with  flour.  Peas 
may  be  prepared  the  same  way. — Mrs.  Alice  E.  Nelson,  404  South 
1st  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Put  1^  teaspoons  of  butter  in  a  pan  and 
let  melt,  add  lJ/2  teaspoons  of  flour  until  it  browns.  Then  put  in  1 
qt.  string  beans,  cut  into  halves;  add  1  chopped  onion,  ^  table- 
spoon of  chopped  parsley.  Pour  enough  water  to  cover.  Cook  1  lb. 
beef  shoulder  steak  until  it  is  tender,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — • 
Mrs.  Schmalzried,  Maywood,  111. 

LEFT-OVER  BEANS.— Left-over  beans  may  be  heated  up  in 
any  kind  of  vegetable  sauce,  as  cream,  drawn  butter,  parsley  sauce, 
brown  sauce,  tomato  sauce,  poulette  sauce,  veloute,  etc. — Mrs.  J. 
B.  Eddington,  5148  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BEETS 

BAKED  BEETS. — Beets  retain  their  sugary  delicate  flavor  to 
perfection  if  they  are  baked  instead  of  boiled.  Turn  them  fre- 
quently while  in  the  oven,  using  a  knife,  as  the  fork  allows  the 


384  VEGETABLES 

juices  to  run  out.  When  done  remove  the  skins  and  serve  whole, 
sliced  or  chopped,  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914 
N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BOILED  BEETS.— Clean  these  nicely,  but  do  not  pare  them, 
leaving  on  a  short  piece  of  the  stalk,  then  put  over  to  boil  in  hot 
water.  Young  beets  will  cook  tender  in  an  hr.;  old  beets  require 
several  hrs.  boiling.  When  done,  skin  quickly,  while  hot;  slice 
thin  into  your  vegetable  dish,  put  over  a  little  vinegar,  and  serve 
hot  or  cold,  or  dice,  or  chop,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  melted 
butter  over  them,  and  serve  hot.— Mrs.  John  Hansen,  1408  S.  8th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CREAMED  BEETS.— Cut  off  stalks  and  leaves,  and  wash  the 
beets  through  3  or  4  waters.  •  Boil  in  salted  water.  Peel,  when 
cooked,  and  lay  them  in  a  drainer  till  all  the  water  is  gone.  Cut 
up  while  hot  into  even  slices.  Cover  with  cream  or  white  sauce, 
and  serve. — Mrs.  E  .D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

GERMAN  BEETS.— Make  a  sauce  of  1  tablespoon  of  butter; 
when  melted  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  onion  juice, 
Yz  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice, 
and  enough  hot  water  to  make  the  sauce  the  right  consistency; 
then  add  freshly  sliced  cooked  beets,  and  let  cook  together  3  or  4 
minutes  before  serving. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Harris,  2910  Evanston  Ave., 
Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  BRUSSELS  SPROUTS.— Wash  and  pick  over  the 
sprouts,  and  boil  until  tender  in  water  to  which  a  little  salt  and 
baking  soda  have  been  added.  Leave  the  saucepan  uncovered,  as 
this  will  keep  the  odor  from  being  pronounced.  Drain,  and  re- 
heat in  melted  ibutter,  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  but  do  not  fry. 
Serve  on  buttered  toast. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

CREAMED  BRUSSELS  SPROUTS.-^Cover  freshly  boiled 
Brussels  sprouts  with  a  white  sauce  made  entirely  of  milk,  or  of 
the  stock  in  which  they  were  cooked,  with  1  tablespoon  of  cream 
added. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wic:hmann,  5069  N.  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  III. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS.— Free  the  sprouts  of  the  outside 
leaves,  wash  them  and  boil  in  salt  water  until  tender,  drain,  and 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  385 

cover  with  cold  water  until  cold,  again  drain.  Melt  some  flour  in 
a  stewpan,  add  flour,  mix  well,  and  stir  in  1  cup  of  meat  broth  or 
cream  to  a  creamy  dressing,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  sugar, 
add  the  sprouts,  set  back  and  keep  hot  until  wanted. — Mrs.  E.  D. 
Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CABBAGE 

BAKED  CABBAGE. — Cut  a  medium-sized  cabbage  in  4  pieces, 
soak  in  cold  water,  and  1  dessertspoon  salt,  for  1  hr.;  boil  30  min- 
utes, uncovered,  drain,  add  a  sauce  of  1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon 
each  of  butter  and  flour,  y^  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  pepper,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs  and  *bake  1  hr. — Mrs.  Mary  Woodward,  126  S. 
17th  Ave.,  Maywpod,  111. 

BOILED  CABBAGE.— Take  1  medium-sized  cabbage  and  cut 
up  coarse;  put  in  a  granite  saucepan,  and  'boil  with  a  little  salt  and' 
pepper,  until  tender,  then  drain.  Add  butter  or  dripping  about  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Then  add  vinegar  to  suit  the  taste.  A  bit  of  soda 
or  a  slice  of  stale  bread  added  to  the  water  in  which  the  cabbage 
is  cooked,  or  even  a  bit  of  charcoal  will  minimize  the  unpleasant 
odor.  Pork  may  be  boiled  with  cabibage,  if  liked. — Mabel  Sturte- 
vant,  105  S.  Dearborn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CHOPPED  CABBAGE.— Chop  a  small,  hard  head  of  cabbage 
very  tine,  almost  into  a  pulp,  put  into  a  tureen,  press  it  down  and 
put  a  spider  over  the  flame  in-  which  is  a  cup  of  vinegar,  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Boil  2  minutes,  and  pour  over  cabbage. — Mrs,  C.  K. 
Wurtz,  216  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

GERMAN  CHOPPED  CABBAGE.— Let  1  tablespoon  of  lard 
become  hot,  add  J4  chopped  onion  and  let  it  become  yellow.  Add 
1  head  of  finely  chopped  cabbage,  let  smother  for  J/^  an  hr.,  be 
careful  not  to  let  burn.  Pour  enough  water  to  cover  the  cabbage. 
Put  in  2  lbs.  of  pork  roast  and  let  it  boil  until  tender.  In  another 
pan  put  Yi  tablespoon  of  lard,  let  it  become  hot,  fry  1  chopped 
onion,  add  Yi  teaspoon  of  vinegar.  Put  this  mixture  into  the  cab- 
bage and  let  simmer  5  minutes. — Mrs.  Schmalzried,  Maywood,  111. 

CREAMED  CABBAGE.— Chop  cabbage  fine  and  cook  until 
tender.     Drain  in  colander  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  2  beaten 


386  VEGETABLES 

eggs  and  3  tablespoons  of  cream.    Serve  hot. — ^Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N. 
5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

FRIED  CABBAGE. — Chop  cabbage  fine,  add  salt  and  pepper, 
then  heat  frying-pan  and  when  hot  add  2  tablespoons  butter,  the 
cabbage,  and  cover;  stir  occasionally,  add  a  little  vinegar.  Cook 
20  minutes. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SCALLOPED  CABBAGE.— Boil  a  firm  cabbage  in  2  waters, 
drain,  and  press,  and  let  it  get  perfectly  cold,  then  mince  fine; 
add  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2  eggs,  well  'beaten,  3  tablespoons 
cream  or  milk,  pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste.  Put  into  a  buttered 
bake  dish,  sift  fine  crumbs  on  top,  and  bake,  covered,  J/^  an  hr., 
then  brown. — Mrs.  Jas.  Harrington,  4159  Sheridan  Road,  Chicago, 
111. 

RED  CABBAGE  SLAW.— Shave  the  cabbage,  putting  into  jar 
or  bowl.  Sprinkle  (about  1  cup  of  salt  for  3  cabbages),  salt 
through  and  on  top  of  it.  Let  it  stand  12  hrs.,  then  drain  off  and 
let  stand  1  hr.  Boil  3  qts.  of  vinegar,  adding  1  oz.  of  whole  mace 
and  1  oz.  of  whole  black  pepper.  Let  boil  15  minutes,  strain  out 
the  spice,  pour  hot  vinegar  over  cabbage  (sufficient  to  cover),  tie  a 
cloth  over  the  jar,  and  set  away  for  use. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka.  111.  ^        ^ 

HOT  SLAW. — Chop,  and  cook  in  w^ter  with  a  little  salt  some 
cabbage;  when  done,  drain,  leaving  a  little  water  to  prevent  scorch- 
ing, pour  over  the  cabbage  this  dressing — ^the  yolk  of  1  egg,  1 
teaspoon  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  and  ^  cup  vinegar,  a  little  mus- 
tard, well  beaten  together,  and  3  teaspoons  of  whipped  cream  added 
last. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann,  5069  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE  HEAD  (German  Style).— Separate  the 
leaves  of  2  cabbages,  boil  until  half  done  in  salt  water,  drain  well. 
Take  a  clean,  large  napkin,  lay  it  into  a  colander,  over  this  place 
the  largest  leaves,  one  next  to  the  other,  overlapping  s-ome,  and 
meeting  at  the  bottom,  with  the  bottom  of  the  leaf  down.  Prepare 
the  forcemeat  while  the  cabbage  is  boiling.  Chop  the  small  leaves 
of  the  cabbage  very  fine,  add  to  the  chopped  meat  bread  crumbs,  3 
eggs,  a  liberal  piece  of  butter  and  cream;  mix  this  thoroughly,  and 
season  with  pepper,  salt  and  allspice;  spread  a  thick  layer  of  this 
over  the  leaves  in  the  colander,  cover  with  another  layer  of  boiled 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  387 

cabbage  leaves,  continue  until  it  is  all  used.  Now  take  the  2 
opposite,  also  the  2  other  cor'ners  of  the  napkin,  and  secure  firmly 
with  a  string,  allowing  plenty  of  room  for  swelling,  but  at  the  same 
time  retaining  the  shape  as  much  as  possible.  Boil  it  in  plenty  of 
water  to  cover  well  for  2  or  3  hrs.  Serve  the  cabbage  whole,  and 
garnish  with  parsley,  when  served  hot;  when  served  cold,  slice  it. — • 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

LEFT-OVER  CABBAGE— Chop  left-over  cabbage  real  fine, 
brown  a  little  flour,  add  juice  cablDage  was  cooked  in,  to  thicken. 
Put  in  cahbage,  and  let  come  to  the  boil,  add  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste. — Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Lamson,  28  Arlington  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

LEFT-OVER  FRESH  CABBAGE.— Do  not  throw  away  a 
single  leaf  of  cabbage,  even  the  outside  green  leaves  may  be  scald- 
ed, the  mid  ribs  removed,  and  the  leaves  used  for  Egyptian  rolls. 
Put  a  tablespoon  chopped  meat  in  each  and  roll  it  up;  cook  these 
in  salted  water,  and  serve  with  a  cream  sauce  or  English  drawn 
butter. — 'Mrs.  Chas.  Messner,  6911  Perry  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CARROTS 

CARROTS  AND  ASPARAGUS.— Reheat  in  milk  or  white 
stock  equal  quantities  of  sliced,  cooked  carrots  and  cooked  aspara- 
gus, cut  into  short  pieces.  Thicken  with  flour  cooked  in  butter, 
take  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  well  beaten.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  butter,  and  minced  parsley. — Mrs.  Joseph 
F.  Merrill,  5010  Wentworth  Ave.,   Chicago,   111. 

BOILED  CARROTS  WITH   CABBAGE.— Peel  the  carrots, 

cut  into  thin  strips,  and  cook  until  tender  in  salted  mutton  stock  to 
cover  with  twice  the  quantity  of  shredded  cab'bage.  Cook  together 
a  tablespoon  each  of  flour  and  drippings,  and  add  enough  of  the 
cooking  liquid  to  make  a  smooth,  thick  sauce.  Season  with  brown 
sugar  and  cinnamon,  pour  over  the  drained  vegetables  and  serve. 
A  pinch  of  ground  ginger  may  be  added  to  the  mutton  stock.  This 
is  a  Jewish  recipe. — Mrs.  Aaron  Levison,  550  Bryant  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

CREAMED  CARROTS.— 6  large  carrots,  cleaned,  and  cut  into 
cubes,  coyer  with  boiling  water,  and  let  cook  till  tender.  Enough 
salt  to  flavor,  drain  off  the  water,  add  1  cup  of  rich  milk,  and  let 


388  VEGETABLES 

come  to  a  boil,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  dash  of  pepper,  and 
thicken  with  2  teaspoons  of  flour,  dissolved  in  a  little  milk;  let 
boil,  and  serve. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann,  5069  N.  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

VARIATION  I.— Peel,  clean,  cut  into  cu'bes  the  desired 
amount  of  carrots,  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender.  Pour 
off  part  of  water,  leaving  enough  to  give  flavor  to  the  carrots,  add 
milk,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  sugar,  and  thicken. — 'Mrs.  Alice  E. 
Nelson,  404  S.  1st  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

FRIED  CARROTS.— Wash  and  slice  enough  carrots  to  make 
2  cupfuls.  Simmer  until  nearly  tender  in  stock  to  cover.  Add  a 
cup  of  cream,  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. — Mrs.  Ernest  vMessner, 
6117  Champlain  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

GERMAN  CARROTS.— Wash,  clean  and  cut  into  dice  shape 
6  carrots.  Wash  again  and  let  them  dry  thoroughly.  Into  a  pan 
put  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  the  carrots,  and  let  smother  for  15 
minutes,  stirring  often  so  not  to  'burn.  Add  ^  chopped  rnion  and 
1  chopped  tablespoon  parsley,  and  let  smother  for  5  minutes  more. 
Add  1  tablespoon  of  flour.  In  5  minutes  pour  in  enough  warm 
water  to  cover  the  carrots.  Put  in  1  lb.  of  round  steak,  let  slowly 
(simmer)  boil  until  the  meat  is  tender. — Mrs  Sc.hmal:?ried,  May- 
wood,  111. 

MASHED  CARROTS.— Wash,  clean  and  boil  in  salted  water 
desired  amount  of  carrots,  drain,  mash  and  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter. — Mrs.  Lighthart,  811  N.  19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CARROTS  AND  ONIONS,  FRIED.— Take  1  doz.  medium- 
sized  carrots,  boil  till  almost  tender.  Drain,  have  1  small  bowl  of 
onions  cleaned,  then  chop  carrots,  add  onions,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
fry  in  gravy  or  butter,  till  nicely  browned. — 'Mrs.  J.  T.  Metcalf. 
4611   Evanston  Ave.,   Chicago,   111. 

CARROTS  AND  PEAS. — Wash  and  scrape  3  medium-sized 
carrots  and  cut  into  thin  slices  and  boil  in  salted  water  until  ten- 
der. Boil  1  cup  milk,  and  mix  1  tablespoon  of  flour  in  a  little  cold 
milk  as  thickening,  and  then  boiling  the  milk  over.  Add  1  tea- 
spoon butter  and  pepper,  and  then  1  can  peas,  and  let  it  just  come 
to  a  boil. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Marelius,  2329  Cornelia  St.,  Chicago.  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         389 

VARIATION  I. — Wash  and  scrape  young  carrots,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft.  Strain,  add 
equal  quantity 'cooked  green  peas.  Season  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.  String  beans  may  also  be  added  to  this  combination. — 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann,  5069  N.  Lincoln  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

GREEN  PEAS  WITH  CARROTS.— Cut  2  carrots  into  small 
squares  and  boil  until  tender;  drain,  and  turn  in  a  can  of  peas, 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sugar,  a  tablespoon  of  butter, 
and  thicken  with  a  little  corn  starch  moistened  in  J^  cup  milk. 
Let  boil  up  and  serve. — Mrs.  Clara  Stone,  228  S.  16th  Ave,,  May- 
wood,  111. 

CARROTS  AND  TURNIPS.— Cut  carrots  and  turnips  into 
dice,  or  balls,  using  a  French  cutter,  and  cook  separately  until  ten- 
der in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  mix,  and  reheat  in  cream 
sauce. — Mrs.  J.  Wichmann,  5069  N.  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SMOTHERED  CARROTS.— Clean,  scrape  and  cut  into  dice 
enough  carrots  to  make  a  pt.  Soak  in  cold  water  for  ^  an  hr. 
Put  into  a  double  boiler  with  no  liquid  except  that  which  clings 
to  them.  Cover  tightly  and  cook  until  tender.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  pour  over  melted  butter  of  white  or  cream  sauce. 
— Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann,  5069  N.  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SPRING  CARROTS.— Leave  the  stalks  on.  Scrape  and  boil 
in  salted  water  until  tender.  Pour  over  a  cream  sauce,  seasoning  it 
with  minced  parsley  and  lemon  juice. — Mrs.  Ralph  Neunan,  1622 
Summerdale  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

STEWED  CARROTS.— If  carrots  are  young,  parboil  and  cut 
into  slices,  cubes  or  strips;  if  old,  scrape  and  soak  them  for  J/2  an 
hr.  in  cold  water.  Cook  until  tender  in  water  or  stock,  or  equal 
parts  of  each,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  either  a  chopped 
onion,  parsley,  grated  nutmeg,  butter,  cream  or  other  desired  sea- 
soning, or  any  combination  of  these  preferred.  When  done,  car- 
rots may  be  served  plain,  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  or  a  white, 
cream  or  drawn  butter  sauce. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann,  5069  N.  Lin- 
coln Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


390  VEGETABLES 

CAULIFLOWER  RULES 

1.  Soak  5^  hr.  in  salt  water. 

2.  When  ready  to  cook,  plunge  in  salted,  boiling  water. 

3.  Do  not  cook  after  it  becomes  tender. 

4.  Serve  as  soon  as  done. 

— Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BAKED  CAULIFLOWER.— Boil  till  tender,  drain,  place  in  a 
baking  dish.  Put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  table- 
spoon of  flour,  mix,  add  ^  pt.  of  milk,  J4  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little 
pepper,  and  stir  constantly  until  it  boils;  pour  this  sauce  over  the 
cauliflower,  sprinkle  over  Yi  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  put  here  and 
there  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  15  minutes,  or 
until  the  bread  crumbs  are  a  golden  brown. — Mabel  Sturtevant, 
105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  CAULIFLOWER.— Tie  up  the  cauliflower  in  a 
piece  of  cheesecloth,  and  boil  in  hot  water,  to  which  a  little  salt 
has  been  added.  Drain,  and  lay  in  a  deep  dish  with  flower  upper- 
most, heat  a  teacup  of  milk,  thickened  with  2  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter, cut  in  pieces,  and  rolled  in  flour;  add  pepper,  salt,  and  the 
beaten  white  of  an  egg,  boil  up  for  a  few  seconds,  stirring  briskly. 
Take  from  the  fire,  and  flavor  with  lemon,  and  put  over  the  cauli- 
flower, reserving  about  half  the  sauce  for  use  at  the  table. — Mrs.  A. 
E.  Whitney,  1760  Edgewater  Place,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Remove  leaves,  cut  the  main  stalk  close  to 
the  flower,  lay  it  in  boiling  milk  and  water,  slightly  salted,  with  the 
stalk  down.  When  done,  take  it  out  carefully,  and  drain  in  a  col- 
ander; place  in  the  vegetable  dish,  and  pour  over  it  a  rich  drawn 
butter  dressing. — Mrs.  H.  C.  Waack,  5435  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAMED  CAULIFLOWER  WITH  CHEESE.— Break  oflf 
the  flowerets  and  let  stand  in  salted  water  1  hr.  Cook  till  tender, 
drain,  place  in  a  vegetable  dish  and  cover  with  a  cream  sauce  made 
with  1  cup  milk,  a  lump  of  butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  flour,  and  salt 
and  pepper.  Grate  cheese  over  top. — Mrs.  Lighthart,  811  N.  19th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CREAM  OF  CAULIFLOWER.— Take  a  good-sized  cauliflow. 
er,  soak  in  slightly  salted  cold  water,  for  }/^  an  hr.;  then  drain  and 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         391 

put  head  upwards,  in  a  saucepan,  which  is  not  over  large,  and  let 
it  cook  for  5^  an  hr.,  uncovered.  Put  in  a  double  boiler  1  qt.  of 
milk  (4  cups),  1  onion  and  1  bay  leaf,  and  let  them  cook  together 
while  the  cauliflower  is  boiling.  Drain  the  cauliflower  when  done, 
and  reserve  ^  cup  of  the  little  sprays  which  form  the  head,  mash 
the  remainder  in  a  wooden  bowl,  and  add  to  it  2  cups  of  the  stock 
in  which  it  boiled,  and  put  in  with  the  boiling  milk;  stir  well  and 
let  cook  5  minutes,  then  put  through  a  sieve  and  return  to  the  fire 
with  a  thickening  of  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  rubbed  together  with  1 
tablespoon  of  butter,  season  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
dash  of  nutmeg,  add  the  Yt,  cup  of  cauliflower  as  a  garnish,  and  let 
cook  10  minutes  more  before  serving.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  whip- 
ped cream  at  the  last,  if  desired. — Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S.  8th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  III. 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN.— Cut  a  large  cauliflower  into 
8  pieces,  and  boil  tender  in  salted  water.  Drain,  lay  in  a  deep  pud- 
ding dish,  stems  down,  and  pour  over  it  a  plain  white  sauce,  into 
which  2  hard-boiled  eggs  have  been  chopped.  Sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs,  and  bake  to  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann,  5069  N, 
Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CAULIFLOWER  OMELETTE.— Chop  cold  cauliflower  very 
fine,  and  mix  it  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  beaten  ^^^  to  make  a 
stiff  batter;  then  fry  it  in  fresh  butter,  and  serve  very  hot. — Mrs. 
C.  W.  Nelson,  4552  Indiana  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

ESCALLOPED  CAULIFLOWER.— Place  clusters  of  cold 
cauliflower  downward  in  a  buttered  baking-dish.  Beat  together  a 
cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  2  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  4  table- 
spoons of  milk,  season  and  whip  in  a  raw  ^z%\  pour  over  the  cauli- 
flower, and  bake  20  minutes. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

BAKED  CELERY. — 3  cups  celery,  cut  in  1  inch  pieces,  1  cup 
stale  bread  crumbs  (buttered),  ^  cup  grated  eheese,  Yi  cup  milk,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  seasonings.  Cook  celery  in 
boiling  water  until  tender.  Drain,  and  save  half  the  liquid.  Make 
a  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  milk,  celery  water,  and  seasonings.  Add 
cheese,  stir  until  it  melts,  add  the  celery.  Arrange  in  alternate  lay- 
ers in  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  the  crumbs.  Bake  until  browned. 
—Mrs.  Mary  H.  Park,  836  Wilson  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


392  VEGETABLES 

CREAMED  CELERY.— Cut  up  into  Vz  inch  pieces,  stalks  of 
celery,  or  better,  the  roots.  Cook  in  salted  water  until  tender. 
Make  a  cream  sauce  with  1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  butter,  and  a 
small  teaspoon  flour,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  A  good  way  to 
use  outside  stalks  of  celery  when  good. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann, 
5069  N.  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  CHICORY.— 1  lb.  chicory,  boiling  water,  salt,  ^  pt. 
white  sauce.  Wash  the  chicory,  and  cut  the  root  end  across  twice. 
Put  into  the  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt,  and  cook  until  tender, 
about  30  minutes.  Drain  well,  and  then  place  in  a  hot  vegetable 
dish. — Mrs.  Albert  E.  Rol^inson,  6955  Normal  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CORN  BAKED  IN  THE  HUSK.— Put  the  ear  of  corn,  husks 
and  all,  into  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  until  tender  (about  IS  or  20  min- 
utes). Remove  the  husks,  silk's,  score,  and  serve  with  butter  and 
salt.  Corn  is  much  sweeter  cooked  in  this  manner. — Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BAKED  CANNED  CORN.— Take  one  tin  of  corn,  and  turn 
into  a  well-buttered  baking-dish,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  pep- 
per, salt,  ^  cup  of  milk,  and  sprinkle  over  the  top  with  cracker 
crumbs,  and  minced  nut  meat,  and  bake. — ^Mrs.  E.  Robinson,  5527 
Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CORN  CROQUETTES.— Take  left-over  corn,  add  a  little  milk, 
1  beaten  ^^^,  seasoning  to  taste.  Form^n  croquette  shapes,  roll  in 
^^^  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CANNED  CORN.— To  1  can  of  corn  add  y^  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, 5^  cup  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  1  heaping  teaspoon 
of  sugar  to  give  it  the  fresh,  natural  corn  taste. — Mrs.  C.  K.  Wurtz. 
216*5.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

DELICIOUS  CORN.— With  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  corn  from 
the  j::ob,  and  scrape  with  the  knife  all  the  grains  and  hearts  well 
into  the  same  dish,  and  put  plenty  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Add 
no  water,  just  the  liquor  from  the  scraped  corn.  Put  it  in  double 
boiler,  and  cook  for  20  minutes,  and  you  get  the  fine  flavor  of  the 
corn. — Mrs.  S.  J.  Walsh,  4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         393 

CORN  FRITTERS  OR  PANCAKES.— Make  an  ordinary 
fritter  or  pancake  batter  with  left-over  corn,  flour  and  milk,  and  a 
little  baking  powder.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  fat,  and  fry. 
Corn  oysters  from  left-overs  jnay  be  made  in  the  same  way. — Mrs. 
E.  Seymour,  6330  Ingleside  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CORN  OR  MOCK  OYSTERS.— Grate  8  ears  of  corn  and 
scrape  the  co'b,  beat  2  eggs  and  add  to  the  corn  pulp,  with  1  tea- 
spoon salt.  To  this  add  enough  rolled  oyster  crackers  to  make  a 
thick  corn  batter;  fry  (oyster  shape)  in  hot  lard  or  drippings.  Put 
in  oven  and  keep  crisp  while  others  are  frying. — Mrs.  Anna  Day, 
121  S.  16th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SCALLOPED  CORN  AND  TOMATOES.— In  a  well-buttered 
baking-dish  put  alternate  layers  of  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes, 
scraped  corn,  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  butter; 
have  the  last  layer  crumbs.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  45  minutes. 
Serve  in  same  dish  in  which  it  was  baked. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N. 
5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SUCCOTASH. — Cook  1  pt.  of  corn  pulp  in  as  little  water  as 
you  can  without  scraping.  Put  the  cobs  in  a  qt.  of  water,  and  'boil 
hard  for  20  minutes;  remove  co'bs,  and  in  this  water  boil  1  pt.  of 
shelled  beans  until  tender.  Drain,  and  mix  with  the  corn.  Add 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  pepper,  salt,  and  Y^  a  cup  of  thick 
cream,  more  if  liked.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann,  5069  N. 
Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

LEFT-OVER  CORN.— Left-over  corn,  cooked  on  cob,  may  be 
cut  ofif,  and  seasoned  with  pepper,  butter  and  salt,  heated  in  a 
white  sauce.  Any  left-over  corn  may  be  treated  the  same  way. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  CUCUMBERS  (Delicious).— Peel  5  good-sized  cu- 
cumbers, cut  lengthwise,  and  remove  the  seeds  and  soft  part.  Rub 
1  cup  of  soft  bread  crumbs  into  ibutter  the  size  of  an  ^%^,  and  add 
1  teaspoon  of  finely-chopped  onion;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Sprinkle  salt  over  the  cucumbers,  fill  with  the  seasoned  bread 
crum'bs  and  bake  until  cucumbers  are  very  soft  and  the  filling  a 
nice  brown. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

BOILED  CUCUMBERS.— Pare,  cut  in  pieces,  cook  until  soft 
in  boiling  salted  water,  drain,  mash,  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 


394  VEGETABLES 

p€r  and  butter,  or  add  to  cream  sauce. — Mrs,  S.  J.  Thurber,  7078 
N.  Ashland  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CUCUMBER  WITH  DRESSING.— Peel  the  cucumbers  and 
let  them  stand  in  ice  water  for  1  hr.  Slice  and  place  in  a  bowl. 
Pour  over  a  mixture  of  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  or  vinegar,  2  table- 
spoons of  olive  oil,  Yz  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  pepper. — ■ 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS.— Take  large  cucumbers,  peel,  and 
slice  lengthwise,  sprinkle  with  salt,  have  the  pan  ready  with  hot 
lard,  or  butter  may  be  used;  dip  the  cucumbers  in  flour,  sprinkle 
with  pepper,  and  fry  to  a  nice  brown.  This  is  a  Southern  dish. 
—Mrs.  W.  Webb,  6042  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

ESCALLOPED  CUCUMBERS.— Peel  and  cut  into  dice  6 
large  cucumbers.  Butter  a  baking-dish,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  the 
dice,  seasoning  with  grated  onion  and  lemon  juice.  Cover  with 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  season  with  paprika  and  celery  salt. 
Repeat  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  crumbs  and  butter  on  top. 
Cover  and  bake  for  an  hr.,  then  remove  the  cover  and  brown. 
Serve  with  Sauce  Piquante. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Merryweather,  7016  Ver- 
non Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

STUFFED  BAKED  CUCUMBERS.— Take  4  good-sized  cu- 
cumbers, peel,  cut  in  half,  and  set  in  salt  and  water  for  y^  an  hr. 
Remove  from  water,  taking  out  the  seedy  part;  mince  finely  1  cup 
of  nuts  (almonds  are  best),  1  stalk  of  celery,  1  sprig  of  parsley,  1 
green  pepper,  2  tablespoons  of  cracker  crumbs,  and  3  tablespoons 
of  cream.  Mix  thoroughly,  fill  cucumber  shells  with  the  mixture 
and  sprinkle  the  top  with  cracker  crumbs  and  butter.  Dip  the  cu- 
cumbers into  a  well-beaten  t%^  mixture,  or  dust  over  with  the 
same  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  30  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  Car- 
son, 205  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

EGG  PLANT  IN  BATTER.— Clean,  peel  and  dip  in  a  batter 
made  with  1  beaten  egg,  a  pt.  of  milk,  J4  teaspoon  salt,  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  sifted  in  flour 
enough  to  make  about  the  thickness  of  cake  batter,  and  fry. — Mrs. 
Chas.  F.  Miller,  1509  St.  Charles  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

EGG  PLANT  CAKES.— Pare  1  small  t^^  plant,  cut  into 
pieces,  and  boil  in  salt  and  water  until  soft.     Pour  off  the  water, 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  395 

mash,  add  pepper,  and  mix  with  a  batter  made  of  1  pt.  of  milk,  3 
eggs,  beaten  thoroughly,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a  piece  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  for  a  thin 
batter.     Fry  like  batter  cakes. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,   111. 

FRIED  EGG  PLANT.— Peel  and  slice  egg  plant,  let  stand  in 
salt  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  and  dip  in  egg  and 
crackers,  and  fry.— Mrs.  Charles  F.  Miller,  1509  St.  Charles  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Peel  and  slice  amount  desired.  Let  stand  in 
salt  water  over  night,  steam  until  tender  or  about  ^  hr.,  mash  and 
make  into  pattie  balls,  and  dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry. 
Left-over  egg  plant  may  be  used  the  same  way. — ^Mrs.  Charles  F. 
Miller,  1509  St.  Charles  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

EGG  PLANT  FRITTERS.— Put  the  egg  plant,  whole,  into 
boiling  salted  water,  mixed  with  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice;  cook  20  minutes,  or  until  tender;  mash  and  drain.  To  1  pt, 
of  egg  plant  add  J^  a  cup  of  flour,  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Fry  in  small  cakes  in  hot  fat,  browning  well  on 
both  sides. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann,  5069  N  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago, 
111. 

ENDIVE 

ENDIVE,  CREAMED — Wash  the  endive  carefully,  and  pick 
off  the  outer  green  leaves,  leaving  only  the  white  part.  Boil  until 
tender,  drain  well,  return  it  to  the  kettle  and  nearly  cover  it  with 
milk.  When  the  milk  boils,  thicken  it  with,  a,  little  flour,  stirred  to 
a  paste,  with  a  small  quantity  of  cold  milk,  season  with  butter,  salt, 
and  pepper,  and  serve. — Mrs,  L.  L,  Lee,  800  S,  Kedzie  Ave.,  Chica- 
go,  111. 

GREENS. — Young  beet  tops,  spinach,  young  turnip  tops  and 
chicory  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  way.  Wash  them  through  sev- 
eral waters,  throwing  away  all  the  wilted  or  tough  ones.  Cook  in 
a  pcyt  half  full  of  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  and  press  them, 
so  that  all  the  water  will  be  out.  Season  them  with  a  little  salt, 
plenty  of  pepper  and  butter.  Put  them  in  the  oven  in  the  dish  for 
a  few  minutes,  and  serve  hot.  String  beans,  peas  and  spinach 
should  be  boiled,  uncovered,  so  as  to  retain  their  green  color. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 


396  VEGETABLES 

BEET  GREENS.— Carefully  wash  and  clean  young  beets. 
Leave  roots  and  tops  together,  cutting  off  only  tips  of  leaves.  Put 
them  into  a  kettle  half  filled  with  salted,  boiling  water,  and  allow 
them  to  cook  for  J^  or  ^  of  an  hr.  Drain  as  dry  as  possible  in  a 
colander.  Serve  hot  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  or  with  vinegar. 
They  may  also  be  cooked  and  chopped  fine,  like  spinach. — Mrs.  J. 
H.  Wichmann,  5069  N.  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  CURLY  GREENS,  SCOTCH  KALE,  OR  TURNIP 
TOPS. — Remove  the  coarse  outside  leaves  and  large  stalks.  Wash 
•jvell.  Soak  in  cold  salt  water  10  minutes,  then  put  them  into  a 
clean  pan,  and  pour  over  enough  boiling  water  to  cover.  Strain, 
and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  to  which  has  been 
added  a  little  salt,  soda,  and  sugar.  Boil  fast,  with  the  lid  off,  for 
20  to  30  minutes.  When  tender,  drain  and  press  well.  Put  into  a 
hot  vegeta'ble  dish.  Cut  across  into  neat  squares,  and  serve  at 
once.  When  the  greens  are  getting  old  and  stringy,  they  should 
be  passed  through  a  mincing  machine  after  draining,  and  reheated. 
— ^Mrs.  J.  M.  Cutler,  6143  Lexington  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

COD-CANNON  BALLS.— Chop  M  lb.  cold  greens,  and  rub  ^ 
-  lb.  cooked  potatoes  through  a  sieve.  Melt  the  1  oz.  of  butter,  mix 
in  the  potatoes  and  1  egg,  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Add  the 
greens  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Turn  on  a  plate,  and  make  into  a 
flat  cake.  Divide  into  equal  portions,  make  into  balls,  brush  with 
egg,  roll  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  This  makes  24  balls. — 
Mrs.  Roger  Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

DANDELION  GREENS.— Cut  the  stems  from  a  half  peck  of 
dandelion  leaves,  and  break  each  leaf  into  small  bits,  dropping 
these  into  cold  water  as  you  do  so.  Wash  thoroughly,  drain  and 
lay  in  cold  water  for  15  minutes.  Drain  again,  and  put  over  the 
fire  in  a  porcelain-lined  saucepan,  with  enough  salted  water  to 
cover  them.  Simmer  for  15  minutes,  while  you  make  the  following 
sauce:  Cut  together  a  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour,  and 
pour  upon  them  a  pt.  of  milk,  in  which  a  pinch  of  soda  has  been 
dissolved.  Stir  to  a  smooth  white  sauce.  Drain  the  water  from 
the  dandelion  leaves,  and  stir  these  into  the  sauce.  Season  to  taste, 
and  beat  in  very  slowly,  a  whipped  egg.  Remove  at  once  from  the 
fire,  and  turn  into  a  deep  vegeta'ble  disJ^.r-^Mrs.  B.  B.  Dale,  1255 
Thorndale  Ave.,  Chicago,  111 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  397 

DANDELION  AND  SPINACH  GREENS.— Gather  freshly 
grown  dandelions  when  the  dew  is  on  them.  Use  equal  amounts 
of  dandelion  and  spinach.  Pick  over  carefully,  throw  into  cold 
water  and  wasih  in  several  salted  waters.  Plunge  the  dandelion 
into  'boiling  water,  cook  ^  hr.  before  adding  the  spinach;  continue 
the  cooking  until  tender,  then  drain,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well,  turn  on  warm  dish,  and  garnish 
with  hard-boiled  tgg. — ^Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

DOCK  GREENS. — Take  the  leaves  and  stalks  of  tender  young 
narrow  dock  plants  in  early  spring.  Pick  over,  and  wash  carefully, 
cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender,  then  drain,  and  season 
with  butter  and  salt.  Vinegar  may  be  used  if  desired.  Salt  pork 
may  be  cooked  with  them,  if  liked,  but  they  are  more  wholesome 
when  seasoned  with  butter.  Their  chief  value  is  for  the  water  and 
alkaline  salts  which  they  contain.  They  need  only  a  few  drops  of 
water  to  start  them,  then  they  cook  in  their  own  juice. — ^Mrs.  J.  M. 
Cutler,  6143  Lexington  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

LAMB'S  QUARTER  GREENS.— This  tender  little  plant, 
which  grows  so  abundantly  in  some  sections  of  the  country,  makes 
a  very  palatable  dish  when  cooked  with  a  piece  of  salt  pork.  Pre- 
pare and  cook  as  any  other  kind  of  greens. — Mrs.  M,  H.  Eddy, 
3834  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,*  111. 

POKE  OR  STOKE  GREENS.— The  stalks  and  leaves  of"  this 
plant  make  delicious  greens  in  May  'before  they  become  tough. 
They  are  at  their  prime  in  the  South  about  the  middle  of  April  and 
in  the  North  the  first  of  May.  They  will  cook  in  20  minutes. — 
Mrs.  Adolph  Harmon,  5008  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  SORREL.— Prepare  and  cook  like  spinach.  If  very 
large  leaves,  blanch  for  10  minutes  before  cooking. — Mrs.  D.  C. 
Harper,  6040  Crescent  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

TURNIiP, .  RADISH  OR  MUSTARD  GREENS.— Pick  the 
tender  leaves  from  these  plants  by  the  time  they  are  an  inch  long, 
and  prepare  as  for  any  other  kind  of  greens.  They  may  be  boiled 
with  a  piece  of  salt  pork,  or  a  ham  bone,  or  they  may  be  cooked  in 
their  own  juice  with  the  addition  of  a  very  little  water,  and  sea- 
soned with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  or  vinegar,  if  desired. — Mrs,  J. 
H.  Wichmann,  5069  N.  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  III 


398  VEGETABLES 

A  BOILED  DINNER  WITH  GREENS.— Choose  any  kind  of 
greens  desired,  as  turnip,  beet,  radish,  or  mustard  tops,  pig-weed, 
lamb's  quarter,  polk  leaves,  and  stalk  and  clean  thoroughly.  Soak 
for  half  an  hour  in  salted  water  to  remove  any  small  insects,  which 
are  always  on  these  plants,  though  invisible  to  the  naked  eye. 
Wash  out  of  this  water,  and  put  into  a  kettle  with  a  good-sized 
piece  of  salt  pork  for  seasoning.  Cook  with  plenty  of  water  for 
1  hr.  Add  as  many  potatoes  as  required  for  the  meal,  and  boil 
until  done.  Serve  together  on  same  platter. — Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Har- 
ris, 4517  N.  Ashland  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

HOMINY 

BAKED  HOMINY.— Stir  into  a  pt.  of  milk,  a  cupful  of  cold 
boiled  fhominy,  and  when  this  is  smooth,  add  a  tablespoon  oJ  melted 
butter,  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  4  well-beaten 
eggs.  Beat  very  light,  and  pour  into  buttered  pudding  dish,  and 
bake  for  about  H  ^n  hr.,  or  until  set  and  brown.  This  is  a  good 
accompaniment  to  roast  beef. — Mrs.  Selma  Jennings,  3960  Langley 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES.— Beat  1  pt.  of  hot,  cooked  hom- 
iny, 1  tablespoon  of  hot  milk  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  all  together. 
Season  with  salt  and  let  stand  till  cool.  Shape  the  mixture  into 
cro^ettes,  then  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs  and  ffy  in  ko-nut  to  a 
golden  brown.  Drain,  lay  them  on  a  napkin,  and  serve. — Mrs.  E. 
D,  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRIED  HOMINY.— Stir  together  some  cold  hominy,  1  egg, 
well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  and  a  small  quantity  of 
milk.  Heat  over  a  slow  fire  and  turn  into  mould  and  dredge  light- 
ly with  flour.  When  cold,  slice,  put  a  lump  of  ko-nut  into  a  flat 
stewpan,  and  when  hot  put  in  the  slices  and  fry  until  brown. 
Drain,  pile  on  a  dish,  and  serve  with  maple  syrup. — Mrs.  ■£.  D. 
Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

SOUTHERN  HOMINY.— This  is  made  of  the  soft,  white 
Southern  corn,  hulled,  and  each  kernel  cracked  into  3  or  4  pieces. 
Wash  and  put  to  simmer  in  3  or  4  parts  water  for  several  hours — 
the  longer  the  better.  It  should  be  finished  off  about  even  full  of 
the  rich,  starchy  juice  in  which  it  is  cooked,  making  a  sufficient 
dressing  for  a  normal  taste,  to  the  accompaniment  of  sweet  stewed 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         399 

fruit  and  fresh  gems  or  crackers. — Mrs.  C.  Carson,  305  S.  5th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

SEA  KALE. — Wash  in  several  waters,  pare  the  stalks  and  put 
it  into  salted  water;  drain  well  when  done,  season  it  lightly,  and 
pour  over  melted  butter. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

LEEKS. — Cut  leeks  into  3-inch  lengths,  using  the  tender  green 
part  as  well  as  the  white;  wash  the  pieces  thoroughly  in  cold  run- 
ning water,  then  put  them  in  a  small  saucepan,  and  cover  them 
with  boiling  salted  water,  and  let  them  boil  for  20  minutes.  Make 
a  sauce  by  melting  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  thickening  it  with  1 
tablespoon  of  flour,  and  adding  1  tablespoon  at  a  time,  1  cup  of 
the  water  the  leeks  were  cooked  in,  making  the  sauce  of  the  right 
consistency;  season^  with  pepper  and  salt,  drain  the  leeks,  and 
serve  the  sauce  over  them. — Mrs  Emma  Jenkins,  6352  Monroe 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

LENTILS. — Pick  the  lentils  over  carefully,  wash  thoroughly 
and  soak  several  hours,  put  them  on  with  clear,  cold  water,  and 
boil  them  gently  until  done;  heat  a  little  butter  with  a  little  flouri 
in  it,  add  an  onion,  fry  until  it  turns  yellow,  drain  off  some  of  the 
water  the  lentils  were  boiled  in,  add  them  to  the  dressing,  and 
simmer  Yz  hr.  longer  before  serving. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

LENTIL  CROQUETTES.— Make  a  paste  of  the  following:  J/^ 
lb.  of  lentils.  Wash  the  lentils  well.  Soak  them  in  cold  water  all 
night.  Tie  them  up  in  muslin,  and  boil  for  1  hr.  in  the  water  in 
which  they  were  soaked,  adding  pepper  and  salt.  Squeeze  out  as 
much  as  possible  of  the  water,  and  rub  the  lentils  tfhrough  a  sieve. 
Make  a  panada  or  thick  sauce  with  Yz  oz.  of  butter,  ^  oz,  of  flour, 
and  milk.  Cook  well,  add  the  lentil  pulp,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  oz. 
of  flour,  and  seasoning.  Cook  well  and  turn  on  to  a  plate.  It  is 
better  to  make  it  the  day  before  it  is  wanted. — Mrs.  M.  H.  Lamont, 
2953   Wabash   Ave.,   Chicago,   111. 

"DAL,"  AN  INDIAN  I^NTIL.— Sift,  pick,  and  wash  V^  lb. 
Dal.  Chop  fine  a  small  onion,  and  fry  it  in  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  add  the  washed  Dal,  ^  pt.  of  water,  and  a  level 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Let  all  boil  up  quickly,  then  set  back  to  boil 
gently  for  J^  an  hr.  longer.     Stir  occasionally.     Send  to  table  in  a 


400  VEGETABLES 

vegetable  dish,  and  at  the  same  time,  in  a  similar  dish,  serve  plain 
boiled  rice,  light  and  dry,  the  grains,  soft,  yet  each  one  separate. 
^  lb.  Dal,  and  ^  Vb.  rice  are  enough  for  two  persons.  Total  cost, 
4yi  cents. — Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Nelson,  4860  Kenmore  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

LENTILS  —  EGYPTIAN  STYLE.— Wash  2  cups  of  lentils, 
soak  them  10  or  12  hrs.,  and  drain  them  before  using.  Put  them 
into  boiling  water,  and  cook  until  tender,  which  will  be  in  about  an 
hr.,  then  drain  again.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  into  a  saucepan, 
and  when  melted,  add  1  large  onion,  finely  chopped;  cook  over  a 
very  slow  fire  for  10  minutes,  tlhen  add  the  lentils,  and  2  scant  cups 
of  boiled  rice,  and  stir  all  together  with  a  large  fork  until  very  hot; 
dredge  well  with  salt  and  pepper  before  serving. — Mrs.  F.  S.  Oli- 
ver, 6246  Kenmore  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

GERMAN  LENTILS.— Cover  2  cups  of  lentils  with  cold  wa- 
ter and  let  them  soak  10  or  12  hrs.;  drain,  and  put  them  in  boiling 
salted  water,  with  1  leek,  or  1  onion,  and  let  them  cook  for  an  hr., 
or  until  tender,  but  not  broken.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a 
frying-pan,  and  when  melted,  stir  into  it  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  and 
let  brown;  then  add  2  finely  chopped  onions,  2  or  3  tablespoons  of 
vinegar,  and  2  tablespoons  of  the  water  in  which  the  lentils  were 
boiled.  Mix  this  sauce  with  the  drained  lentils,  put  them  in  a 
double  boiler,  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  and  serve 
after  they  have  steamed  slowly  for  15  minutes. — Mrs.  A.  A.  Olson, 
5760  Wentworth  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

LENTILS  WITH  PEANUTS.— Make  a  puree  of  lentils,  and 
to  each  cup  of  lentils  add  1  tablespoon  of  peanuts  (the  lentils  and 
peanuts  previously  put  through  the  grinder).  Season  to  taste. — 
Mrs.  C.  Carson,  205  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BAKED  DRIED  APPLES.--Take  dried  or  evaporated  apples 
and  soak  in  water  for  12  hrs.,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  with 
sweet  cider. — Mrs.  C.  Carson,  205  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

LENTIL  PIE. — Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and 
when  melted,  add  to  it  1  finely  chopped,  onion,  and  let  this  fry  slow- 
ly for  10  minutes;  then  add  2  cups  of  boiled  German  or  Egyptian 
lentils,  and  l4  cup  of  brown,  or  German  sauce,  and  w<hen  heated 
through,  pile  into  a  deep  dish;  dredge  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover 
with  pie-crust,  and  bake  in  the  oven  till  brown. — Mrs.  Andrew  Par- 
ker, 6421  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         401 

LENTIL  AND  CAULIFLOWER  PIE.— Butter  a  pie-dish  and 
line  with  y2  lentil  paste.  Skin  and  slice  ^  lb.  tomatoes,  and  sprin- 
kle with  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  pepper,  5^  teaspoon  sugar. 
Put  the  cold  cooked  cauliflower  and  tomato  into  the  pie-dish  in 
layers.  Cover  with  lentil  paste,  and  smooth  it  over  with  a  knife. 
Put  the  rest  of  tne  paste  into  a  bag  with  a  rose  forcer,  and 
decorate  the  pie.  Bake  for  J/^  an  hr.  Serve  with  lentil  sauce. 
— Mrs.   A.   C.   Christy,   Glen  View,   111. 

LENTIL  AND  CELERY  PIE.— Cut  6  oz.  of  celery  into  pieces 
about  1  inch  long.  Cook  until  tender  in  water.  When  tender 
strain  and  mix  with  1  gill  tomato  sauce.  Line  a  pie-dish  with  half 
lentil  paste.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  5/2  an  hr. — Mrs.  C.  E. 
Jefferson,  505  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

LENTIL  PASTE.— Wash  the  54  to  K  lb.  lentils  and  soak 
them  all  night  in  1  qt.  cold  water.  Tie  them  up  in  muslin  with  the 
1  oz.  celery  and  1  oz.  onion.  Cook  in  the  water  in  whidh  they 
were  soaked,  with  5^  teaspoon  of  salt,  for  1^^  hrs.  Squeeze  as  dry 
as  possible,  and  rub  through  a  wire  sieve,  melt  1  oz.  butter,  add  the 
1  oz.  of  flour  and  mix  all  well.  Add  the  54  gill  lentil  stock  and 
cook  until  quite  thick.  Add  the  lentils  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and 
54  of  pepper.  Mix  well.  Turn  on  to  a  plate  and  leave  until  cold. — 
Mrs.  J.  P.  Phillip,  2362  Kenilworth  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  LETTUCE.— The  large  green  leaves  of  lettuce,  which 
cannotbe  made  use  of  in  salads,  may  be  boiled  and  hashed  like  spin- 
ach, and  served  in  the  same  way.  This  is  a  very  favorite  Hun- 
garian dish. — Mrs.  H.  W.  Phelps,  1/^3  Kenilworth  Ave.,  Chicago, 
111. 

'BAKED  MUSHROOMS.— Toast  for  each  person  a  large  slice 
of  bread  and  spread  over  with  rich,  sweet  cream;  lay  on  each  slice, 
head  downward,  a  mushroom,  or,  if  small,  more  than  one;  season 
and  fil  leach  with  as  much  cream  as  it  will  hold.  Place  over  each 
a  custard  cup,  pressing  well  down  to  the  toast;  set  in  a  moderate 
oven  and  cook  15  minutes.  Do  not  remove  the  cups  for  5  minutes 
after  they  come  from  the  oven. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  III. 

BROILED  MUSHROOMS.— In  order  to  test  mushrooms, 
sprinkle  salt  on  the  gills — if  they  turn  yellow  they  are  poisonous, 
if  black,  they  are  good.     Pare,  and  cut  off  stems,  dip  in  melted  but- 


402  VEGETABLES 

ter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  broil  on  'both  sides  over  a  clear 
fire,  and  serve  on  toast. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

MUSHROOM  CROQUETTES.— Press  1  cup  of  cold  mashed 
potatoes  through  a  sieve,  add  2  cups  of  musihrooms  which  have 
been  cut  in  pieces  and  simmered  in  2  tablespoons  of  butter  for  20 
minutes  Sprinkle  with  salt  Beat  2  eggs,  form  into  balls,  and  fry 
in  hot  oil.— Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

MUSHROOMS  WITH  PEAS.— Fill  the  cups  of  large  mush- 
rooms with  French  canned  peas,  which  have  been  tossed  for  5  min- 
utes in  hot  butter.  Season,  and  set  in  a  covered  pan,  in  a  hot  oven 
for  10  minutes,  and  serve  on  toast  with  white  or  brown  sauce,  as 
preferred. — Mrs.  Howard  L.  Ray,  6234  Lexington  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BSCALLOPED  MUSHROOMS.— Put  the  musihrooms  in  a 
butter  baking-dish  with  alternate  layers  of  crumbs,  seasoning  each 
layer  plentifully  with  butter;  add  salt,  pepper  and  a  gill  of  cream 
or  gravy.  Bake  20  minutes,  keeping  covered  while  in  the  oven. — 
Mrs  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

OKRA. — Procure  young  and  tender  pods,  and  cut  off  both 
ends,  to  make  the  pods  of  uniform  length  (about  2  inches).  Blanch 
the  pods,  and  then  lay  them  in  a  saucepan,  add  hot  stock  just  to 
cover,  and  let  simmer  until  tender,  and  the  stock  reduced.  Serve 
on  a  hot  plate,  dressed  with  Bechamel,  Hollandaise,  or  any  sauce 
used  with  asparagus.  Garnish  with  sippet  of  toast  points,  or  cutlet 
shapes.  A  little  lemon  juice  should  be  added  to  a  Bechamel  or  a 
drawn  butter  sauce  that  is  to  be  served  with  okra. — Mrs.  Geo.  R. 
Ray,  2822  Wilcox  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  OKRA. — The  pods  of  okra  are  so  sticky  that  espe- 
cial care  is  needed  to  avoid  breaking  them  while  cleaning.  They 
should  be  well  washed  before  the  stems  are  removed;  then  place 
them  in  boiling  salted  water,  sufficient  to  cover,  and  boil  until  ten- 
der. They  should  boil  very  slowly,  as  rapid  boiling  will  break 
them  in  pieces.  It  requires  an  hr.  or  more  to  cook  this  vegetable. 
When  tender,  throw  the  okra  into  the  colander,  and  when  drained, 
lay  it  in  a  dish.  Heat  together  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  table- 
spoon of  vinegar,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  mix  well,  and  pour 
the  sauce  over  the  okra  in  the  dish. — Mrs.  C.  S.  Raymond,  3225 
Evans  ton  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         403 

ONIONS  AND  APPLES.— Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a 
frying-pan,  and  when  melted  put  in  3  sliced  onions,  and  3  sliced  ap- 
ples; let  fry  slowly  until  browned,  and  seive  on  toast. — Mrs,  Ida  'M. 
Seymour,  5126  Indiana  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  ONIONS.— The  large  Spanish  onions  are  far  milder 
and  more  delicate  than  the  usual  winter  varieties.  Wash  the  on- 
ions clean,  trim  the  bottoms,  but  do  not  peel,  put  into  slightly  salt- 
ed water,  and  boil  for  1  hr.  If  the  onions  are  desired  very  mild, 
change  the  water  twice  during  the  time,  replenishing  with  more 
boiling  water.  Having  drained  them  well,  take  each  onion  sepa- 
rately, wipe  it  dry,  and  roll  in  a  square  of  buttered  tissue  paper, 
twisting  the  paper  at  the  top  to  keep  it  closed.  Place  the  onions  in 
a  baking  pan,  and  bake  1  hr.  in  a  slow  oven.  When  done,  remove 
the  papers,  peel  the  onions,  and  place  them  in  a  serving  dish;  pour 
melted  butter  over  them,  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. — Mrs.  J.  D. 
Sexton,  5715  Laflin  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAMED  ONIONS.— Peel  the  onions,  and  boil  1  hr.  in  plen- 
ty of  salted  water.  Drain  well,  and  cut  each  onion  into  4,  6,  or  any 
desired  number  of  pieces,  over  which  pour  a  cream  sauce. — 'Mrs.  J. 
H.  Wichmann,  5069  N.  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

ONION  DUMPLINGS.— 3  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  3  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  1  cup  chopped  suet,  1  cup  chopped  onions, 
mix  thoroughly,  then  add  enough  cold  water  to  mix  stiff,  steam  3 
hrs.,  serve  with  hot  roast  beef,  and  brown  gravy. — Mrs.  Jennie  M. 
Shaffer,  3914  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRIED  ONIONS.— Peel  the  onions,  and  cut  into  thin  slices; 
when  a  generous  tablespoon  of  butter  has  slowly  melted  in  a  frying- 
pan,  put  the"  onions  in  and  let  them  simmer  over  a  slow  fire;  stir 
them  frequently,  and  serve  when  transparent  and  turning  a  golden 
brown.  Fried  onions  can  be  served  alone  or  as  a  garnish  to  heaped- 
up  mashed  potatoes.  They  are  saved  from  their  extreme  common- 
placeness  by  being  arranged  in  a  gratin  dish,  not  over  an  inch  high, 
dusted  with  a  sprinkling  of  crumbs  or  grated  cheese,  and  placed  for 
3  or  4  minutes  in  the  oven. — Mrs.  C.  S.  Thompson,  3442  Union  Ave., 
Chicago,  111. 

DUTCH  ONION  PIE.— Make  a  biscuit  dough,  line  a  pie  tin, 
and  slice  in  a  good  layer  of  onion,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  put 


404  VEGETABLES 

on  top  of  this  cured  bacon  or  fat  pork,  and  sprinkle  with  flour,  and, 
lastly,  add  a  little  sweet  cream. — Mrs.  Alma  Thornton,  3760  Rhodes 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SCALLOPED  ONIONS.— Slice  and  boil  until  tender  8  or  10 
good-sized  onions.  Lay  them  in  a  baking-dish,  put  in  bread  crumbs, 
a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  between  each  layer,  until  the  dish  is 
full,  putting  bread  crumbs  last;  add  milk  or  cream.  Bake  20  or  30 
minutes. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

STUFFED  ONIONS.— Boil  white  onions  in  slightly  salted  wa- 
ter for  1  hr.,  changing  the  water  twice.  Lift  them  out,  and  scoop 
out  a  portion  from  the  center.  Fill  the  cavity  with  the  dressing 
of  2  ta'blespoons  of  bread  crum'bs,  1  large  teaspoon  of  grated  cheese, 
a  little  cream,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  of  the  onion  which  has  been 
scooped  out.  Wrap  each  onion  in  a  piece  of  buttered  tissue  paper 
and  twist  the  paper  securely  at  the  ends.  Bake  in  a  buttered  pan 
in  a  moderate  oven  nearly  1  hr.  Remove  the  paper,  put  into  a 
deep  dish,  sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over 
melted  butter. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

FRIED  PARSLEY.— Choose  fresh  green  parsley.  Wash  and 
dry  it  in  a  cloth,  and  leave  on  a  sieve  until  ready  to  fry.  After 
frying  croquettes,  etc.,  with  which  parsley  is  to  be  served,  allow 
the  oil  to  cool  a  little,  then  put  the  parsley  into  a  frying  basket, 
and  fry  until  crisp.  It  must  not  brown;  it  will  only  take  a  few 
seconds.  Drain  on  paper  and  use.  If  a  basket  is  not  used,  the 
parsley  should  be  tied  with  a  piece  of  string,  leaving  it  long  enough 
to  lift  out. — Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

BAKED  PARSNIPS. — Boil  parsnips  until  tender,  drain,  and 
mash,  add  a  generous  lump  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  but- 
ter a  baking-dish,  cover  the  botJ:om  with  a  layer  of  hread  crumbs, 
put  in  parsnips,  cover  with  a  layer  of  crum^DS,  and  brown  in  the 
oven.  Parsnips  baked  with  pork  have  a  delicious  flavor. — Mrs. 
Frank  H.  Thorp,  4731  Kenmore  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PARSNIP  BALLS. — ^Mash  and  season  boiled  parsnips.  Re- 
move from  the  fire,  and  before  it  cools  add  1  well-beaten  egg. 
When  cold  make  into  balls  about  half  the  size  of  an  egg.  Dip  into 
beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs.  Fry  a  pale  brown  in  boiling 
lard  or  Ko-nut. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         405 

BOILED  PARSNIPS  IN  SAUCE.— Wash  and  scrape  6  or  7 
parsnips,  cut  them  in  halves  lengthwise,  and  put  them  in  cold  water 
for  Yt,  an  hr.  Drain  them,  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water,  containing  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  let  them  boil  for  about  Yd, 
of  an  hr.  While  they  are  finishing  cooking,  prepare  a  sauce,  with 
1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed  together, 
and  put  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire.  When  melted  and  smooth,  add 
a  spoonful  at  a  time,  some  of  the  stock  in  which  the  parsnips  are 
cooking,  until  about  2  cups  'have  been  used;  stir  until  well  thick- 
ened, but  not  paste-like,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour 
over  the  parsnips,  after  draining  them. — Mrs.  Minnie  E.  Thorpe, 
2730  Calumet  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PARSNIP  CAKES. — Grate  raw  parsnips  to  make  a  cupful,  add 
1  cup  fine  bread  crumbs,  2  beaten  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  salt 
and  pepper.  Moisten  with  sweet  milk,  form  into  cakes,  and  fry 
brown  in  hot  butter. — Mrs.  Frank  E.  Daily,  4133  Kenmore  Ave., 
Chicago,  111. 

CREAMED  PARSNIPS.— Peel,  cut  fine,  and  boil  in  salted  wa- 
ter the  desired  amount  of  parsnips.  Drain  and  pour  into  a  vegeta- 
ble dish,  and  cover  with  a  cream  sauce  made  with  1  cup  milk,  lump 
of  butter  size  of  a  walnut. — Mrs.  Lighthart,  811  N.  19th  Ave.., 
Maywood,   111. 

PARSNIP  CROQUETTES.— Mash  up  left-over  parsnips,  add 
a  little  mashed  potatoes,  and  mix  with  cracker  or  bread  crumbs. 
Form  and  drop  into  hot  fat. — Jane  Parker,  803  S.  2nd  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

DELICIOUS  PARSNIPS.— Peel  parsnips,  wash,  cut  into 
cubes,  and  boil  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  them  until  tender.  Place 
in  the  oven  a  dish,  in  which  put  a  good-sized  lump  of  butter,  let 
gradually  melt,  and  when  parsnips  are  cooked,  drain,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  place  in  a  vegetable  dish,  and  pour  over  them  the 
melted  butter,  and  serve  hot. — Fred  A.  Daley,  6361  Sheridan  Road, 
Chicago,  111. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS.— Boil  parsnips  until  tender  in  salt  water, 
or  use  cold,  left-over  parsnips,  roll  in  tz%  and  cracker  crumbs  and 
fry  in  deep  fat.— Mrs.  C.  K.  Wurtz,  216  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


406  VEGETABLES 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS.— Boil  the  parsnips,  and  when  tender 
take  oflf  the  skin  and  mark  them  fine;  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour, 
and  a  beaten  egg',  make  into  small  cakes  with  a  spoon,  and  put  into 
boiling  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings  in  a  hot  frying-pan.  When  fried 
a  delicate  brown,  put  on  a  dish,  pour  a  little  of  the  fat  over,  in 
which  they  were  fried,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Amelia  Edison,  4356 
Berkeley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

ESCALLOPED  PARSNIPS.— Mash  enough  boiled  parsnips 
to  make  a  pt.  Add  2  tablespoons  each  of  butter  and  cream,  1  egg, 
well  beaten,  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  alternate  layers  of  parsnip  and  crumibs,  having  crumbs 
on  the  top.  Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  54  of  a  cup  of  milk, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  the  parsnips.  Bake  un- 
til brown,  an<l  serve  in  the  baking-dish.  The  layers  of  crumbs  and 
the  milk  may  be  omitted. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Harris,  2910  Evanston  Ave., 
Chicago,  111. 

PARSNIPS  STEWED  WITH  BACON.— Peel  ^  a  doz.  pars- 
nips and  boil  with  6  thin  slices  of  bacon.  -  Let  the  water  boil  away, 
and  fry  down  to  a  rich  brown.  Serve  with  bacon. — Mrs.  Emma 
Jenkins,  6352  Monroe  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  PEAS. — Stew  or  saute  1  onion  in  2  tablespoons  of 
fat,  or  cooking  oil,  butter,  or  equal  parts  butter  and  lard.  Add  a 
qt.  of  green  peas,  with  water  or  milk  to  cover.  If  canned  peas  are 
used,  take  their  own  liquor.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  celery 
tops.  Bake  1  hr. — Ma^bel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.i  Chicago, 
III. 

GREEN  PEAS  AND  CARROTS.— Take  the  green  peas,  after 
shelling  and  cleaning,  and  to  1  qt.  of  peas,  take  }4  a  qt.  of  young 
carrots,  cleaned,  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Boil  together  in  water 
enough  to  cover,  add  butter  and  salt  to  taste,  a  very  little  flour  to 
thicken  it,  and  some  fine  cut  parsley  at  the  last. — Mrs.  Lee  L. 
Lamping,  801  S.  Kedzie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

DRIED  PEA  CROQUETTEiS.— Put  1  cup  of  dried  peas  in 
cold  water  or  broth,  let  cook  for  1^4  hrs.,  or  until  tender,  then 
strain  and  mash.  Add  to  them  1  finely  minced  onion,  which  has 
been  fried  10  minutes,  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  2 
tablespoons  of  flour,  2  eggs,  and  breadcrumbs,  made  stiff  enough 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         407 

to  make  into  croquettes  or  flat  cakes.  Roll  in  crumbs,  and  fry  a 
golden  brown  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with  onion,  tomato,  or  mint 
sauce. — Mrs.  Joseph  Merrill,  5010  Wentworth  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

DUCHESSE  PEAS.— Mash  6  boiled  potatoes,  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  4 
teaspoons  of  grated  cheese,  2  tablespoons  of  cream;  mould  in  ob- 
long wells,  brush  with  egg,  bake  a  delicate  brown,  fill  cavities  with 
hot,  seasoned  French  peas. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

PEA  FRITTERS.— Cook  a  qt.  of  shelled  peas  until  soft  in  boil- 
ing salted  water.  Drain,  mash,  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 
and  salt  to  season.  Beat  4  eggs  with  Ij^  cups  of  milk,  and  add  1 
cup  of  flour  in  which  has  been  sifted  a  teaspoon  of  baking  pow- 
der and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the  mashed  peas  by  spoonfuls  into 
the  batter,  and  fry  on  a  hot  griddle. — Mrs.  Ernest  Messner,  6117 
Champlain  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

GREEN  PEAS. — If  the  pods  are  tender  and  green,  wash  and 
put  on  in  cold  water;  boil  10  minutes.  Skim  out,  into  this  put  the 
peas,  boil  J^  hr. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

GREEN  PEAS  WITH  HAM.— Cut  ^  a  lb.  of  raw  ham  into 
dice.  Parboil,  drain,  and  fry.  Dredge  with  flour,  and  add  3  pts. 
of  shelled  peas,  3  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  2  green  onions.  Add  salt 
and  pepper  to  season,  cover,  and  cook  slowly  for  yi  an  hr.  Re- 
move the  parsley  and  onions,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  serve.  Diced 
salt  pork  may  be  used  instead  of  the  ham,  and  a  pt.  of  water  added 
with  the  peas. — Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Nelson,  4860  Kenmore  Ave.,  Chicago, 
111. 

PEA  LOAF. — Soak  4  cups  of  split  peas  over  night.  In  the 
morning  put  them  with  a  small  onion  in  a  farnia  kettle  with  just 
enough  water  to  cover,  and  boil  until  soft.  Drain  and  pulp  through 
a  colander.  Beat  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  3  eggs. 
Boil  in  buttered  mould  or  floured  cloth  1  hr.  Turn  out  and  cut  in 
slices  on  the  table. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

PEA  OMELETTE.— To  every  yolk  and  white  of  egg, 
beaten  lightly  together  (not  separately),  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  2 
tablespoons  of  milk.  Open  a  can  of  peas  and  place  over  fire  in 
their  own  liquor.     When  boiling  add  salt  to  taste  and  1  tablespoon 


408  VEGETABLES 

of  corn  starch,  blended  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  a  tiny 
piece  of  butter.  Boil  for  3  minutes;  have  omelet  pan  hot,  with  a 
liberal  piece  of  butter  or  olive  oil  on  it,  and  pour  in  egg  and  milk 
ingredients.  Do  not  have  the  fire  too  hot  and  as  soon  as  omelette 
is  firm  place  in  it  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  peas,  fold  over,  and 
serve.  Garnish  with  peas.  Will  serve  6. — Mrs.  C.  Carson,  205  S. 
5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CANNED  PEAS  WITH  ONION.— Put  1  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter in  a  saucepan,  and  when  melted,  add  1  tablespoon  of  chopped 
onion;  let  simmer  for  5  minutes,  then  add  1  can  of  peas,  drained 
of  their  juice,  and  %  oi  3.  cup  of  cream  or  milk;  season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  after  10  minutes'  slow  cooking. — Mrs. 
J.  H.  Wichmann,  5069  N.  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PEA  PANCAKES.— Mash  2  cups  of  boiled  peas,  and  press 
through  a  sieve.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  cool,  add  2 
eggs,  beaten  "with  a  cup  of  milk.  Add  J^  a  cup  of  flour,  sifted  with 
a  ^2  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  mix  thoroughly,  and  fry  on  a  hot 
buttered  griddle. — Mrs.  F.  S.  Oliver,  6246  Kenmore  Ave.,  Chicago, 
111. 

PATTIES  OF  FRESH  GREEN  PEAS.— Use  fresh  green 
peas,  boiled,  or  canned  French  peas;  reheat  in  white  sauce,  and  use 
to  fill  patties  or  timbale  cases.  A  little  finely  chopped  mint  mayj 
be  added  to  the  sauce,  if  liked. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Olson,  3523  Prairie 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PEA  PUDDING. — Soak  a  qt.  of  dried  peas  over  night.  In  the; 
morning,  cook  until  soft  in  water  to  cover,  with  a  small  onion. 
Drain,  rub  through  a  colander,  and  beat  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  to  season,  and  3  eggs,  well  beaten.  Boil  in  a  but- 
tered mould  for  an  hr.,  turn  out,  and  serve  in  slices. — Mrs.  H.  W. 
Phelps,  1733  Kenilworth  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PEAS  AND  RICE.— Put  %  cup  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan, 
add  1  cup  of  well  washed  rice,  and  cook  until  the  rice  is  golden 
brown,  stirring  constantly.  Add  1  qt,  of  boiling  water,  and  a  can 
of  peas,  drained,  or  an  equal  quantity  of  s'helled  peas.  Season  with 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  add  sugar  to  taste.  Put  into  a  baking-dish, 
and  bake  until  the  rice  is  tender,  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. — Mrs. 
H.  W.  Phelps,  1733  Kenilworth  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  409 

STEAMED  PEAS.— Put  shelled  green  peas  into  a  covered 
saucepan,  put  into  a  steamer,  and  cook  over  boiling  water  until 
tender.  Season  when  done,  and  add  a  little  hot  milk  or  cream.. 
Or,  add  a  little  'butter,  pepper  and  salt  before  cooking. — Mrs.  C.  S. 
Raymond,  3225  Evanston  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

STEWED  PEAS  WITH  BACON.— Cook  a  pt.  of  peas  until 
tender  in  warm  water  to  cover,  with  a  slice  of  bacon,  chopped  fine. 
Drain  off  nearly  all  the  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  a 
teaspoon  of  butter,  and  a  cup  of  boiling  cream. — Mrs.  Ida  M.  Sey- 
mour, 5126  Indiana  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

STEWED  PEAS  AND  LETTUCE.— Boil  1  pt.  of  shelled 
green  peas  and  2  heads  of  lettuce,  cut  small,  until  tender.  Put  in 
as  little  water  as  possible  and  not  burn,  add  a  pincJi  of  salt  and 
another  of  sugar.  When  done,  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  1 
egg,  2  tablespoons  of  cream  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Do  not  allow 
to  boil  after  the  egg  is  added.  Serve  hot.^ — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

PEAS  IN  TURNIP  CUPS.— Peel  small,  white  turnips,  and 
boil  until  tender,  in  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  cut  a  slice  from 
the  top  of  each,  and  scoop  out  the  center,  making  a  cup.  Put  a 
bit  of  butter,  and  pepper  into  each  cup,  and  fill  with  creamed  peas, 
prepared  according  to  directions  previously  given.  Garnish  with 
sprigs  of  parsley,  or  sprinkle  with  minced  parsley.  Canned  peas 
can  be  used. — Mrs.  J.  M,  Cutler.  6143  Lexington  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PEPPERS  WITH  CORN.— Cut  a  slice  from  the  end  of  sweet 
peppers,  remove  the  inside,  and  fill  with  canned  corn,  well  salted. 
Replace  the  ends  and  bake.  Peppers,  like  tomatoes,  may  be  filled 
in  so  many  ways  that  it  is  useless  to  endeavor  to  enumerate  them, 
for  the  ingenious  cook  can  multiply  them  without  end. — Mrs. 
Amelia  Edison.  4356  Berkeley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRIED  PEPPERS.— Cut  open  lengthwise,  and  extract  all 
seeds,  and  tough  white  fibre.  Slice  crosswise.  Lay  in  cold  salted 
water  for  10  minutes,  then  wipe  dry.  Melt  4  tablespoons  of  butter 
in  a  frying-pan,  and  saute  the  sliced  peppers  in  this.  Lay  about 
broiled  steak  or  chops. — Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Harper,  6212  Ellis  Ave.. 
Chicago,  111. 


410  VEGETABLES 

PEPPERS  WITH  RICE.— Cut  the  stem  end  from  sweet  green 
peppers,  remove  the  inside,  fill  with  boiled  rice,  and  chopped  toma- 
to in  equal  proportions,  and  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt.  A, 
few  chopped  mushrooms,  olives,  or  boiled  eggs  may  be  added  to 
the  filling.  B-ake  from  20  to  30  minutes,  basting  with  butter  and 
water. — Mrs.  Emma  Jenkins,  6352  Monroe  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

ESCALLOP  OF  PEPPERS  AND  CORN.— Cut  enough 
sweet  corn  from  the  coib  to  make  3  cups.  Take  2  or  3  sweet  green 
peppers,  and  remove  the  insides,  then  slice  them  in  very  thin 
circles,  and  arrange  a  layer  of  the  corn  in  a  ^buttered  baking  dish, 
salt  it,  and  then  place  some  rings  of  the  peppers,  then  another 
layer  of  the  corn,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled,  finishing  the  top 
with  peppers.  To  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk  add  1  well-beaten  egg 
and  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter;  pour  this  over  the  whole  and 
bake  for  ^  an  hr.  in  a  hot  oven.  Canned  corn  may  be  used,  in 
which  case  less  cream  will  be  needed. — Mrs.  Lee  L,  Lamping,  801  S. 
Kedzie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS.— Cut  off  tops  and  clean  out  seeds. 
Cook  it  with  their  tops  about  10  minutes,  or  until  tender,  in  salted 
water.  In  fhe  meantime  cook  spaghetti,  broken  very  fine,  in  salted 
water.  Fill  the  peppers  with  this  cooked  spaghetti,  or  cold  left- 
over spaghetti,  chopped  fine,  may  be  used.  Take  a  toothpick  and 
fasten  on  the  tops.  Bake  10  minutes,  and  serve  with  tomato  cat- 
sup.— ^Mrs.  Chas.  F.  Miller,  1509  St.  Charles  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CREAMED  PIMENTOS.— Put  the  pimentos  from  1  can  into 
2  cups  of  white  sauce,  and  let  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  10  min- 
utes. Add  1  taiblespoon  of  chopped  parsley^  some  pepper  and  salt, 
and  serve  on  toast. — Mrs.  Fred  Landberg,  6323  Drexel  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

BAKED  POTATOES.— Select  medium-sized  potatoes,  wash 
well.  Bake  in  hot  oven  until  soft.  Remove  from  oven,  burst  the 
skins  to  allow  steam  to  escape,  thus  preventing  potato  from  becom- 
ing soggy.  Serve  at  once. — iMrs.  John  Murray,  Jr.,  1414  S.  8th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I  (Mashed).— 2  cups  mashed  potatoes,  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  2  eggs,  whipped  light,  1  cup  cream  or  milk, 
salt  to  taste.     Beat  potatoes  and  butter,  add  other  ingredients,  and 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  411 

beat  well.     Pour  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until 
well  browned. — Mrs.  S.  J.  Walsh,  4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II  (Sliced). — Pare  raw  potatoes,  and  slice  very 
thinly,  enough  to  fill  a  two-quart  pudding  dish,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  pour  over  enough  sweet  milk  to  fill  two-thirds  full.  Cut 
5  or  6  slices  of  pork  and  lay  over  the  top.  Bake  about  2  hrs.  If 
preferred,  the  pork  may  be  left  out  and  a  little  more  milk  added, — •. 
Mrs.  P.  O'Brien,  6352  Ingleside  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

POTATOES  BAKED   IN  THE  HALF  SHELL— Bake   six 

medium-sized  potatoes,  remove  from  oven,  cut  slice  from  top  of 
each,  and  scoop  out  inside.  Mash,  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  3* 
tablespoons  of  hot  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  then  add  whites 
of  2  eggs,  well  beaten.  Refill  skins,  and  'brown  in  a  hot  oven. 
Grated  cheese,  finely  chopped  ham,  or  other  cold  meat  may  be  add- 
ed to  the  potato  mixture. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann,  5069  N.  Lincoln 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  PUFF  POTATOES.— Bake  large  potatoes,  cut  in  half 
when  done,  scoop  out  and  season  as  ior  mashed  potatoes,  whip 
light  and  return  to  shell  and  set  in  oven  to  brown.  Potatoes  Au 
Gratin  are  prepared  in  the  same  way,  only  use  grated  cheese  to  suit 
taste. — Mrs.  Florence  Davies,  426  S.  18th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BOILED  POTATOES.— Old  potatoes  are  better  for  being 
peeled  and  put  in  cold  water  an  hour  before  being  put  over  to  boil. 
They  should  then  be  put  in  fresh  cold  water,  when  set  over  the  fire. 
New  potatoes  should  always  be  put  into  boiling  water,  and  it  is  best 
to  prepare  them  just  in  time  for  cooking.  They  are  better  steamed 
than  boiled. — Mrs.  Gabel  O'Connell,  2632  Grand  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

POTATO  BORDER.— Put  1  oz.  of  butter  and  1  teaspoon  of 
milk  into  a  saucepan;  when  hot,  add  1  lb.  of  cooked  potatoes,  rubbed 
through  a  sieve,  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  and  a  little  pepper,  salt  if  neces- 
sary. Stir  over  the  fire  until  the  potatoes  are  hot.  Turn  on  a  hot 
board,  and  make  a  roll  about  1  inch  in  diameter.  Place  on  a  hot 
oval  or  circular  dish.  Join  neatly,  smooth  with  a  knife,  and  make 
the  outside  with  a  wooden  skewer.  To  glaze,  brush  over  with  an 
egg,  and  put  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  This  is  enough  for 
2  or  3  borders.— Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennett,  Bartlett,  111. 


i 


412  VEGETABLES 

*  POTATOES  A  LA  BURNETT.— Bake  good-sized  potatoes, 
when  done  cut  in  halves  and  scoop  out  the  inside;  mash  and  put 
in  butter,  salt  and  milk  as  for  mashed  potatoes,  only  a  little  more 
milk,  replace  in  the  skins,  placing  the  halves  on  a  baTcing-dish, 
grate  a  little  cheese  over  the  top  and  put  into  the  oven  to  brown 
the  surface.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111.  •  , 

POTATOES  WITH   CHEESE.— Put   }i   inch   slice  af  pared 

boiled  potatoes   in  a  deep  baking-dish  with  pepper  and  salt,   and 

cover  with  sweet  cream;  place  a  layer  of  grated,  rich  American 

cheese  on  top  and  bake  25  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Garnish 

"with  sliced  cucumbers. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

POTATOES  AND  CORN.— Chop  fine  cold  boiled  potatoes 
and  mix  with  cooked  corn  in  proportion  of  1  cup  of  potato  to  J/^ 
cup  of  corn;  put  3  large  tablesp#)ons  of  good  dripping  into  a  frying- 
pan.  When  thoroughly  heated,  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Win- 
netka, 111. 

CREAMED  POTATOES.— Pare  the  potatoes,  slice  thin,  and 
put  a  layer  into  a  well-buttered  dish,  sprinkle  over  a  little  flour,  salt 
and  pepper,  put  a  little  butter  here  and  there  over  the  layer,  put 
another  layer  of  potatoes,  anc^ repeat  until  the  dish  is  full;  fill  up 
with  milk,  put  into  a  good  hot  oven,  and  bake  about  34  of  an  hr. — 
Mrs.  Richard  O'Donnell,  1714  Winona  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  thicken  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  flour,  and  add  1  cup  milk,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  When  hot,  add  sliced  potatoes,  and  set  over  a  moderate 
fire  about  10  minutes. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

NEW   POTATOES   AND    CREAM.— Scrape   4   qts.    of   new 

potatoes,  small  ones  preferred,  not  to  be  larger  than  a  hen's  egg. 
Put  in  a  stewpan,  and  add  2  coffee  cups  of  sweet  cream,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  gently  until  a  fork  will  pierce  them 
easily.  Serve  hot,  with  chopped  parsley  over. — Mrs.  John  Hansen, 
1408  S.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

POTATO  DUMPLINGS.— Peel  about  6  medium-sized  potatoes 
and  grate.     Season  with   salt  and   enough  flour  to   handle,   form 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  413 

into  cakes.  Remove  the  rind  from  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork,  and 
cut  in  very  small  pieces,  fry,  and  place  a  tablespoonful  in  the  center 
of  each  cake  and  form  in  ball;  as  fast  as  they  are  formed  drop 
them  in  a  kettle  of  salted,  boiling  water,  and  boil  Yz  hr.  These  are 
to  be  served  with  a  sauce  made  from  the  fryings  of  the  salt  pork, 
added  to  a  p't.  of  milk,  and  brought  to  boil.  This  will  serve  .4 
people. — Mrs.  Alice  E.  Nelson,  404  S.  1st  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

FRICASSEE  OF  POTATOES.— Mode— Put  into  a  smooth 
stewpan  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  place  on 
the  fire,  and  stir  until  the  flour  is  brown.  Add  1  pt.  raw  potatoes, 
cubed,  well  drained,  and  stir  well.  Put  -the  cover  on  the 
stewpan,  and  cook  the  potatoes  for  10  minutes,  stirring  them  fre- 
quently. At  the  end  of  10  minutes,  add  salt,  pepper  and  boiling 
water,  and  simmer  for  15  minutes  longer. — Mrs.  John  P.  O'Hara, 
1449  E.  56th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES.— Wash,  pare,  cut  in  eights, 
lengthwise,  soak  1  hr,  in  cold  water;  dry,  fry,  drain,  and  sprinkle 
with  salt. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Walsh,  3656  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

POTATO  FINGERS.— Peel  and  boil  some  long-shaped  pota- 
toes till  nearly  done,  strain,  cut  each  potato  lengthwise  into  4 
pieces,  and  put  into  a  baking-dish  into  boiling  fat,  and  bake  in  oven 
till  nicely  browned.  Nice  served  under  the  meat. — ^^Mrs.  J.  J.  Har- 
rigan,  3118  South  Park  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

HASHED  POTATOES  BROWNED  IN  THE  OVEN.— Pare 
2  large  potatoes,  cut  into  dice;  put  a  taiblespoon  of  butter  into  a 
frying-pan;  when  melted,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  mix  until 
smooth,  then  add  ^  pt.  milk,  stir  continually  until  it  boils,  add  Yz 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  2  dashes  of  pepper.  Put  layer  of  chopped 
potatoes,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  and  a  few  drops  of 
onion  juice,  second  layer  of  potatoes,  and  so  on,  having  the  last 
layer  sauce.  Sprinkle  the  top  lightly  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  Y^  an  hr. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.. 
Maywood,  111. 

KARTOFFEL  CLASS.— Grate  cold  potatoes,  boiled  with  the 
jackets  on,  and  add  2  eggs,  salt  to  taste,  add  flour  in  which  has  been 
sifted  a  little  baking  powder,  and  knead  like  bread.     Roll  in  balls 


414  VEGETABLES 

and  bake  15  minutes,  or  put  toasted  bread  crumbs   in  center  and 
boil  V2  hr.— Mrs.  KIur,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

MASHED  POTATOES.— Peel,  leave  in  cold  water  1/2  an  hr.; 
put  in  a  steamer,  cook  until  tender.  Have  ready  a  granite  dish, 
put  your  potatoes  in  it,  mash  well  and  fine,  and  season  with  salt,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  rich  milk;  mix  together  well.  If  liked,  put 
in  the  oven  to  brown.  Potatoes  may  be  boiled  instead  of  steamed. 
— Mrs.  John  Murray,  1414  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Boil  peeled  and  quartered  potatoes  in  enough 
salted  boiling  water  to  cover,  drain  all  the  water  off,  shake  the  ket- 
tle well  at  the  open  door  to  make  them  mealy,  and  mash,  put  in  a 
tablespoon  or  more  of  butter,  and  add  hot  milk  to  make  the  right 
consistency.  Beat  the  mixture  with  a  spoon  until  it  is  white 
and  foamy. — Mrs.  John  Hansen,  1408  S.  8th  Aye.,  Chicago,  111. 

MASHED  POTATOES  AND  APPLE  SAUCE  (An  Irish 
Dish). — Boil  potatoes  in  salted  water.  Drain,  and  mash.  Add  half 
the  quantity  of  apple  sauce,  and  serve.  Especially  good  with  pork. 
—Mrs.  Ed.  E.  O'Reilly,  7833  Union  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

NEW  POTATOES  WITH  PEAS.— Wash  and  shell  3  qts.  of 
peas.  Pour  over  them  enough  hot  water  to  barely  cover  them. 
Boil  gently  for  20  minutes,  add  1  doz.  small  new  potatoes  or  6 
medium-sized  ones,  cut  into  halves,  a  teaspoon  of  salt;  cook  20 
minutes  longer.  More  boiling  water  may  be  added,  but  only  enough 
to  cook  without  burning.  When  done  add  1  tablespoon  of  Sutter 
and  1  cup  of  thick  cream. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

PANNED  POTATOES.— Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  oil,  or 
p(5rk  dripping  into  a  dripping-pan,  and  heat  slightly.  Pare  6  me- 
dium-sized potatoes,  and  cut  them  in  small  pieces.  Almost  cover 
them  with  milk,  and  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  on  lid,  and 
bake  in  oven^till  tender.  Remove  lid  till  milk  is  absorbed,  and 
potatoes  are  slightly  browned  on  top. — Mrs.  Victor  R.  O'Shea,  523 
N.  Harding  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

MOTHER'S    POTATO    PATTIES.— Take    mashed    potatoes 
left  over  and  wet  with  a  little  sweet  milk;  make  into  patties  and  dip' 
into  flour.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper.     Fry  with  strips  of  bacon. 
— Ellen  Johnson,  6657  Carpenter  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         415 

POTATO  PIE. — Take  a  baking-tin  or  a  dish  about  3  inches 
deep  for  a  pie  for  9  people.  Slice  one  or  two  small  onions,  take 
a  layer  of  sliced  raw  potatoes,  and  any  cold  meat,  or  small 
pieces  of  fresh  pork.  Then  fill  up  with  potatoes,  and  onion,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Cover  with  water,  not  quite  full,  put  on  the  stove 
to  boil  with  cover  on.  When  potatoes  are  soft,  cover  with  a  nice 
biscuit  crust,  and  brown  in  the  oven. — Mrs.  John  Murray,  Jr.,  1414 
S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

POTATO  AND  CAULIFLOWER  PIE.— Cook  the  cauliflow- 
er. Drain  and  pour  over  it  the  white  sauce.  Divide  into  small 
pieces,  and  place  in  a  pie-dish.  Sprinkle  the  cheese  over,  and  then 
add  lentil  cauce.  Rub  the  potatoes  through  a  sieve.  Melt  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  in  a  saucepan;  add  a  little  milk,  potatoes  and  sea- 
soning. Stir  over  the  fire  until  hot.  Cover  the  pie  and  bake  for 
30  minutes. — Mrs.  M.  O.  Boyle,  1931  Lowell  Ave.,  Chicago,  III. 

POT-PIE  WITHOUT  MEAT.— 6  large  potatoes,  peeled  and 
cut  in  thick  slices,  in  2  qts.  of  water;  boil  until  done;  add  salt  and 
pepper,  1  tablespoon  butter.  Make  good  biscuit  dough,  drop  in 
and  let  boil  10  minutes  without  cover. — Mrs.  P.  O'Brien,  6352  Ingle- 
side  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PRINCESS  POTATOES.— Form  mashed  potatoes  into  a  block 
while  warm.  When  cold  cut  into  slices  about  1  inch  thick,  brush 
with  butter  and  egg,  and  fry  or  bake  brown. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N. 
5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

POTATO  PUFFS. — Beat  2  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs  into 
1  pt.  cold  mashed  potato,  make  into  balls  with  the  hands,  roll  in 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — 
Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SARATOGA  CHIPS.— Wash,  pare,  slice  thinly  into  cold  wa- 
ter; let  stand  2  hrs.;  drain  dry  between  towels;  fry,  drain,  sprinkle 
with  salt. — Mrs.  R.  H.  Walsh,  3656  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  III. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES.— Peel  and  slice  boiled  potatoes 
very  thin.  To  every  pint  of  potatoes  add  1  small  onion  and  1 
fresh  cucumber,  sliced;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  mus- 
tard. Mix  together  and  pour  over  enough  milk  to  cover.  Bake 
I  hr.— Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


416  VEGETABLES 

POTATO  STEW. — A  nice  way  to  cook  potatoes  in  a  hurry 
is  to  peel  and  cut  in  medium  slices  as  many  as  required,  then 
add  a  few  onions,  peeled  and  cut  up;  pepper  and  salt  and  a  few 
bits  of  butter,  and  put  all  in  a  dish,  fill  up  with  water,  and  either 
bake  in  the  oven  or  set  on  top  of  the  stove,  and  cover  closely. — 
Mrs.  Gabel  O'Connell,  2632  ferand  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

STUFFED  POTATOES.— Select  6  large  potatoes,  wash,  and 
put  in  hot  oven,  and  bake  until  soft.  Take  out,  and  remove  one 
end,  and  with  a  spoon  take  out  all  the  inside,  being  careful  not 
to  break  the  jacket;  mash  thoroughly,  then  add  Yz  cup  chopped 
ham  (any  other  meat  will  do),  a  small  piece  of  butter,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  and  sufficient  milk  to  cream  it. 
Fill  up  jackets  again,  replace  the  end,  and  put  in  oven  for  10  ox 
15  minutes,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Richard  O'Donnell,  1714  Winona 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

TO  WARM  COLD  LEFT-OVER  POTATOES.—^  cup  milk, 
1  egg,  well  beaten,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  2  cups  fine  chopped 
potatoes,  stir  all  together;  heap  deep  baking-dish  hot,  and  butter 
well,  and  pour  in  the  mixture;  sprinkle  with  flour  and  bits  of 
butter,  and  'bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  nicely  browned. — Mrs.  John 
P.   O'Hara,  1449  E.  56th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

POTATO  BALLS.— 2  cups  mashed  potatoes,  1^  cups  bread 
crumbs,  1}/^  cups  chopped  meat,  Yz  of  which  should  be  fat,  1  qt. 
ground  sage,  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  all  together,  form  into 
balls,  and  bake  until  a  light  brown,  or  about  ^  an  hr. — Mrs.  J.  J. 
Harrigan,  3118  South  Park  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BROWNED  POTATOES.— For  breakfast  or  lunch  this  is 
an  especially  nice  dish.  Spread  cold  mashed  potatoes  on  but- 
tered granite  pie-tins.  It  should  'be  Y2  an  inch  thick  at  least,  then 
cover  tightly  with  chopped  cold  meat,  seasoned  and  mixed  with 
a  very  little  gravy  or  brown  stock.  Bake  on  bottom  grate  of 
oven  until  the  bottom  is  golden  brown>  you  can  generally  lift 
with  a  sharp  knife  to  see.  When  ready  to  serve  fold  over  like  an 
omelette,  arrange  on  a  hot  platter,  and  garnish  with  parsley. — 
Mrs.   Ed.   E.   O'Reilly,  7833   Union  Ave.,   Chicago,   111. 

DANISH  BROWNED  POTATOES.— Peel  and  slice  or  chop 
potatoes  boiled  with  the  jackets  on.     Melt  1  teaspoon  of  butter  in 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         417 

a  frying-pan,  and  add  3  tablespoons  of  brown  sugar,  when  thor- 
oughly carmalized  put  in  the  potatoes  and  brown. — Mrs.  John 
Hansen,  1408  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

POTATO  CAKES.— Boil  potatoes  until  soft  in  salted  water. 
Cream  with  a  little  milk  and  butter,  add  enough  flour  to  handle 
lightly  with  the  hands.  Form  into  cakes,  and  fry  in  butter  until 
brown.  Serve  hot.  These  are  especially  good  for  breakfast  or 
lunch,  and  are  quickly  prepared. — Mrs.  Victor  R.  O'Shea,  523  N. 
Harding  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

POTATO  CONES.— Take  cold  mashed  potatoes,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  onion,  chopped  fine;  beat  1  ta'blespoon  butter 
and  2  tablespoons  milk.  Shape  carefully  into  cones,  and  brown 
15  minutes  in  the  oven. — ^Mrs.  M.  O'Boyle,  1931  Lowell  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

CREAMED   POTATOES.— Let  a   quart   of   milk   come   to   a 
boil  and  add  butter  size  of  an  egg,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Put  in  1  qt.  diced  cold  potatoes,  boil   10  minutes,  thicken  with   1 
tablespoon  of  flour  or  corn  starch,  and  serve  hot,  sprinkled  with 
parsley. — Mrs.  John  Ward,  6693  Union  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES.— Take  2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes 
(left  from  dinner),  J/2  cup  chopped  meat  (any  kind  you  have  left 
over),  1  even  tablespoon  each  of  chopped  onions  and  parsley,  a 
little  salt.  Mix  all  together,  and  with  the  hands  mould  into  ob- 
longs the  size  of  a  finger.  Dust  with  flour,  roll  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  biscuit  crumbs,  and  fry.  Turn  frequently,  so  they  will  be 
round  when  finished.  Fry  a  golden  brown,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs. 
P.  O'Brien,  6352  Ingleside  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

NUT  AND  POTATO  CROQUETTES.— Coarsely  chop  suf- 
ficient black  walnut  meats  to  measure  a  cup.  Mix  these  with  1 
cup  of  mashed  and  seasoned  potatoes,  and  1  cup  of  soft  bread 
crumbs.  Stir  in  2  well-beaten  eggs,  add  a  high  seasoning  of  salt, 
pepper  and  onion  juice,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  3  table- 
spoons of  beef  stock.  When  cold,  mould  into  croquettes,  dip  each 
into  beaten  egg,  roll  in  fine  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep,  smoking,  hot 
fat.  These  are  delicious. — Mrs.  Mary  T.  O'Callaghan,  1057  Co- 
lumbia Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


418  VEGETABLES 

DELMONICO  POTATOES.— Take  boiled  potatoes  left  over 
from  dinner,  cut  into  dice,  put  in  pudding  dish;  over  this  pour  a 
white  milk  sauce,  cover  the  top  with  a  layer  of  grated  cheese,  and 
bake  for  J^  an  hr.  Serve  hot.— Mrs.  F.  X.  O'Brien,  5837  S.  Mor- 
gan St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAMED  POTATOES.— Take  some  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
cut  into  dice,  pepper  and  salt,  a  sprig  of  parsley  cut  up  fine,  put 
milk  into  frying-pan,  add  potatoes,  enough  milk  to  make  a  nice 
gravy,  then  add  a  little  thickening  of  flour. — Mrs..  P.  A.  Oakley, 
4206  Berkeley  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FRIED  POTATOES.— The  common  method  of  warming  any 
kind  of  left-over  potatoes  is  by  frying.  If  boiled  or  baked,  either 
slice  or  chop,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  An  onion  may  be  added  to  them, 
if  desired.  This  goes  in  the  latter  case,  as  hashed  browned  pota- 
toes. Mashed  potatoes  may  be  sliced  and  dipped  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  fried  a  golden  brown. — Mrs.  E.  M.  O'Connor,  3249 
Evanston  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

POTATO  PATTIES.— Take  cold  mashed  potatoes  (3  cups) 
and  cold  meat  of  any  kind  you  have,  cold  pork,  preferred,  grind  1 
cup,  mix  with  potatoes,  beat  1  egg,  add  this  with  salt,  pepper  and 
sage  to  season;  make  into  little,  round  patties,  and  fry  in  a  little 
grease.  This  is  splendid  to  use  up  left-overs, — Mrs.  Celia  D. 
Q'Dell,  6452  S.  Green  St.,  Chicago,  III. 

POTATO  PIE.— To  1  qt.  of  left-over  potatoes,  cut  in  slices, 
add  about  54  quantity  of  lean  pork  left  from  a  fresh  roast  or  boiled 
ham,  chopped  in  small  pieces;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
add  enough  rich^  sweet  milk  to  make  a  soft  mixture,  and  let  it 
cook  well  on  top  of  the  stove,  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. When  done,  add  a  rich  crust,  similar  to  short  cake,  only 
richer,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  brown.  This  makes  a  very  nice 
supper  dish. — Mrs.  C.  O'Donnell,  6710  Sheridan  Rd.,  Chicago,  III. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES.— Cold  cooked  potatoes  (baked) 
have  a  nicer  flavor.  Put  a  layer  of  potatoes,  and  layer  of  bread 
crum'bs,  and  bits  of  butter,  continue  layer  of  grated  cheese  on  top. 
Cover  with  milk.  Sprinkle  flour  in  each  layer^  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt. — Mrs.  F.  J.  O'Dowd,  6546  Greenwood  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  419 

STUFFED  POTATOES.— Take  left-over  mashed  potatoes,  1 
egg,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  J^  cup  cream,  1  onion,  chopped,  and  sea- 
son with  pepper,  salt,  and  sage;  shape  into  a  loaf,  and  cool;  cut 
in  slices,  dip  in  flour,  and  fry  in  a  little  butter. — Mrs.  John  Jj. 
O'Heron,  425  Homan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  PUMPKIN. — Scoop  out  inside  of  pumpkin,  cut  round 
hole  out  of  top,  and  take  seeds  out.  Put  in  salt,  butter,  pepper, 
and  sugar,  and  then  replace  the  top,  and  bake,  using  no  water,  as 
the  pumpkin  steams  itself.  Serve  as  vegetable.  Easy  for  cook- 
ing pies  also.  Pumpkins  may  be  prepared  in  any  of  the  ways 
which  apply  to  squash:  baked,  boiled,  fried,  flaked,  mashed,  etc. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SALSIFY. — This  vegetable  is  usually  scraped  before  cooking, 
and  much  care  is  necessary^— soaking  and  cooking  in  acidulated 
water,  etc.,  to  keep  it  from  discoloring.  A  better  plan  would  be  to 
scrub  the  roots  carefully — a  vegetable  brush  is  indispensable  in 
cleaning  all  root  vegetables — and  cook  without  scraping;  then  peel 
carefully  and  cut  into  small  pieces  before  sending  to  the  table. 
Salsif}^  may  be  served  with  butter,  and  seasonings,  but  it  is  better 
when  dressed  with  a  white  sauce.  It  is  also  served  "au  gratin." 
A  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  may  be  added  to  the  sauce  or  sprin- 
kled over  the  cooked  salsify,  before  the  sauce  is  poured  over  it. — 
Ma'bel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAMED  SALSIFY  OR  OYSTER  PLANT.— Remove  the 
tops  from  2  bunches  of  salsify,  scrape  and  cut  to  shape,  and  put  in 
a  bowl  of  cold  water  containing  some  lemon  juice,  to  retain  the 
whiteness.  Drain,  and  put  in  boiling  water,  using  enough  to  cover 
it,  and  let  cook  about  ^  of  an  hr.,  salting  the  water  during  the  last 
^/4i  hr.'s  boiling.  Drain,  and  serve  with  highly  seasoned  white  or 
parsley  sauce,  made  with  the  water  in  which  the  salsify  was  cooked, 
with  the  addition  of  a  little  cream. — Mrs.  Lina  C  Jenkins,  6225  In- 
gleside  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BOILED  SAUERKRAUT.— Put  pork  spareribs  in  boiler,  boil 
-lowly  3  hrs.  After  'boiling  1  hr.  add  sauerkraut,  sliced  potatoes 
and  boil  with  the  rest  about  ^  of  an  hr.  If  the  sauerkraut  is  ex- 
tremely sour  wash  before  boiling.  Ten  minutes  before  taking 
from  stove  add  a  few  dumplings. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  May- 
wood.  111. 


420  VEGETABLES 

SPINACH. — Wasfi-  and  clean  carefully  and  put  into  a  net,  or 
bag  of  coarse  muslin  kept  for  the  purpose,  and  boil  in  plenty  of 
salted  water.  All  kinds  of  greens  should  be  boiled  in  plenty  oi 
water,  else  they  will  be  bitter.  Drain  very  thoroughly  and  turn 
into  a  tureen;  it  may  be  chopped,  if  desired;  put  sliced  or  quartered 
hard-boiled  eggs  on  top  and  pour  melted  butter  over  all,  and 
serve.  Another  way  is  to  press  it  between  2  plates,  then  put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  small  bit  of  butter,  salt,  and  a  little  cream,  and 
boil  it  up. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BAKED  SQUASH.— Cut  into  2-inch  pieces,  remove  the  seeds 
and  string,  put  into  a  baking-pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  bake,  basting  with  molasses  and  melted  'butter.  Keep  cov- 
ered during  the  first  J^  hr.  Serve  in  the  shells.  Or,  cut  in  halves, 
and  bake,  covered,  for  2  hrs.,  remove  from  the  shell,  mash,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  butter. — Mrs,  M,  Eckstein,  6039 
Rhodes  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SQUASH  CROQUETTES.— Mix  a  pt.  of  mashed  squash  with 
y2  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pep- 
per to  season.  Heat  thoroughly,  shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. — Mrs.  Jennie  M.  Shaffer,  3914 
Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

STUFFED  SQUASH.— Chop  a  small  onion  fine,  fry  in  butter, 
add  ]/2  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  soaked  in  cold  water  and  squeezed 
dry,  and  4  cups  of  mashed  squash.  Cook  for  15  minutes,  season- 
ing with  salt  and  pepper,  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  beaten  egg,  and 
fill  the  squash  shell.  Cover  with  buttered  crum'bs,  and  brown  in 
the  oven. — Mrs.  D.  A.  Harney,  7721  Union  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SWEET  POTATOES  (Baked).— Select  medium-sized  pota- 
toes, and  wash  well;  boil  5  or  10  minutes,  then  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  soft. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Walsh,  3656  Michigan  Ave.,   Chicago.   111. 

BOILED  SWEET  POTATOES.— Wash,  pare,  cook  20  min- 
utes in  boiling  water,  salted.  They  may  also  be  boiled  with  skins 
on. — Mrs.  R.  W.  Walsh,  3656  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES.— Make  a  syrup  of  1  cup 
sugar,  J4  cup  water,  and  a  lump  of  butter,  put  sliced,  cold  sweet, 
potatoes  into  the  syrup  and  let  cook  down  until  there  is  only  a 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  421 

little  of  the  rich  syrup  left.  Pour  this  over  the  potatoes,  and 
serve. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann,  5069  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAMED  SWEET  POTATOES.— Slice  cold  boiled  sweet 
potatoes  about  54  inch  thick,  and  make  a  rich  cream  or  drawn  but- 
ter sauce,  seasoned  to  taste,  and  heat  the  sweet  potatoes  in  it. 
Garnish  with  parsley  or  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  serve  hot. — ■ 
Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SOUTHERN  SWEET  POTATO  PIE.— Bake  4  large  sweet 
potatoes,  then  scrape  the  inside  from  them,  and  beat  into  it  lightly 
with  a  fork,  2  ta'blespoons  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  3  well- 
beaten  eggs,  1  cup  of  warm  milk,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  a  pinch 
of  mixed  spice.  Line  a  baking-dish  with  pastry,  fill  with  the  po- 
tato, and  bake  for  20  minutes. — Mrs.  L.  Gordon,  1206  S.  Homan 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SWEET  POTATO  PONE.— Grate  4  large  sweet  potatoes, 
then  mix  with  3  well-beaten  eggs,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  2  cups 
molasses,  1  spoon  butter,  powdered  ginger,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg 
to  taste.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  serve  hot  for  dinner  with 
hard  sauce,  and  slice  cold  for  tea. — Mrs.  Harry  Gorman,  1121  9|. 
Albany  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SCALLOP  OF  SWEET  POTATOES  AND  BACON.— This 

is  a  good  "left-over"  when  you  have  a  little  cold  corned  ham,  and 
cold  boiled  or  baked  sweet  potatoes.  Mince  the  meat,  fat  pre- 
ferred, and  put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  bake-dish.  Cover  with 
sweet  potato  dice,  pepper,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  bacon.  When  all 
the  materials  are  used  up,  cover  with  crumbs;  add  enough  milk 
to  wet  the  crumibs,  cover,  and  bake  Yz  an  hr.  Uncover,  and  brown. 
—Mrs.  H.  W.  Phelps,  1733  Kenilworth  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

A  SOUTHERN  DISH.— Cut  cold,  baked  sweet  potatoes  into 
^-inch  slices,  and  put  them  in  an  earthen  dish.  Spread  each  layer 
with  butter,  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar,  and  bake  until  hot, 
and  slightly  browned.  Sweet  potatoes  are  much  richer  when  twice 
cooked. — Mrs.  Grace  Lambert,  2728  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111, 

BAKED  TOMATOES.— Take  out  from  the  top  the  inside  of 
large  tomatoes,  with  this  mix  bread  crumbs,  butter,  pepper,  salt,  a 
little  sugar,  and  some  chopped  onions.     Fill  the  tomatoes  with  this 


422  VEGETABLES 

mixture,  set  them  in'^  deep  dish  or  plate,  and  bake  slowly  for  Yz 
an  hr. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann,  5069  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  III. 

BAKED  TOMATOES  (Italian  Style).— Pour  2  tablespoons 
of  olive  oil  in  a  baking-dish,  add  4  tablespoons  of  grated  bread 
crumibs,  mixed  with  parsley  and  other  herbs,  all  of  which  must 
have  been  chopped  very  fine.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Upon 
a  bed  of  oil  and  crumbs,  lay  a  dozen  tomatoes,  cut  in  halves.  Cover 
them  with  4  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs,  previously  seasoned  in 
the  same  way.  Pour  over  all  2  tablespoons  of  oil,  and  send  dish 
to  a  hot  oven  where  tomatoes  must  bake  for  about  an  hr, — Mrs.  J. 
E.  Jenkins,  2625  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BAKED  TOMATOES  STUFFED.^Cut  off  the  tops  of  to- 
matoes just  large  enough  to  take  out  the  seeds,  remove  seeds,  make 
a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt  and  butter,  and  a  little 
onion,  fill  the  tomatoes  with  this,  place  the  tops  back  on.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven.— Mrs.  Lee  L.  Lamping,  801  S.  Kedzie  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

CREAMED  TOMATOES.— 1  can  tomatoes  put  through  col- 
ander; bring  to  a  boil  on  the  stove,  and  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  1  tablespoon  sugar;  mix  1  tablespoon  flour  with  J^  a  cup  of 
sweet  cream;  stir  it  in  with  the  tomatoes  while  boiling;  serve  hot. — 
Mrs.  E.  Seymour,  6330  Ingleside  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

DEVILED  TOMATOES.— Peel  and  cut  into  thick  slices  8 
large  tomatoes.  Put  into  a  saucepan  4  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  2 
of  best  salad  oil,  1  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  made  mus- 
tard, and  1  saltspoon  of  paprika,  pepper.  Bring  quickly  to  a  boil, 
pour  over  the  tomatoes  and  serve  at  once. — Eloise  Jennings,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

TOMATO  DUMPLINGS.— 1  can  tomatoes  (or  fresh),  season 
with  a  little  sugar,  pepper  and  salt,  and  butter.  Make  dumplings 
with  1  tablespoon  shortening,  put  in  2j/^  cups  flour,  lJ/2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  stir  up^  and  just  mix  lightly  with  wa- 
ter. Take  out  with  a  soup  spoon  and  put  on  tomatoes,  hardly 
touching  each  other.  Cover  so  steam  is  kept  in.  When  cooked  5 
minutes,  take  a  fork  and  go  between.  Cook  5  minutes  longer. — 
Mrs.  Mary  H.  Park,  836  Wilson  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  423 

TOMATO  EGGS. — Take  3  even-sized  tomatoes,  2  eggs,  1 
tablespoon  milk,  1  oz.  butter,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  6  rounds  of 
buttered  toast.  *  Cut  tomatoes  in  halves  through  the  center  (not 
from  stem  to  top),  and  take  out  some  of  the  pulp  into  a  saucepan, 
with  1  oz.  of  butter,  and  cook  lightly;  beat  eggs,  and  add  to  milk, 
put  into  a  saucepan  with  pulp,  and  allow  all  to  cook,  but  not  set. 
Place  the  tomato  shells  in  the  oven,  and  let  them  cook  until  ten- 
der, then  arrange  them  on  toast  and  place  mixture  in  them,  and 
sprinkle  parsley  over  them,  and  decorate  the  dish  with  parsley 
leaves.  A  little  finely  chopped  ham  makes  an  agreeable  addition 
to  the  mixture. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Sergeant,  3845  S.  State  St.,  Chicago, 
111. 

FRIED  TOMATOES.-^Cut  smooth,  solid  tomatoes  into  slices, 
and  drain  well;  dust  each  with  pepper  and  salt;  beat  an  egg  in  a 
saucer  till  light,  and  add  to  it  a  tablespoon  of  boiling  water.  Dip 
each  slice  first  in  this,  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides; 
take  up  carefully,  and  serve  very  hot. — Mrs.  Mary  Fowler,  5718 
Cedar  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

STEWED  TOMATOES.— Put  ripe  tomatoes  into  hot  water, 
and  skin  them,  then  throw  them  into  an  earthen  stewpan,  cut  up 
and  let  tomatoes  cook  gently  for  a  few  minutes,  season  with  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt,  and  serve.  Bread  crumbs  and  sugar  may  be 
added  to  the  tomatoes,  if  preferred.  Some  people  stew  tomatoes 
for  a  long  time,  but  the  flavor  is  finer  if  allowed  to  simmer  for  a 
few  minutes,  just  sufficient  time  to  heat  well  through. — Mrs.  F.  M. 
Farwell,  5413  East  End  Ave.,  Chicago,  111.  _  , 

TURNIPS  AND  CARROTS.— Cook  separately  diced  carrots 
and  turnips,  then  mix,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and 
minced  parsley.  Or,  mix  with  cream  or  white  sauce. — Mrs.  M.  J. 
Findlay,  230  W.  64th  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

CREAMED  TURNIPS.— Pare  and  slice  or  cube  1  large,  or 
2  small  turnips,  cover  with  water,  to  which  has  been  added  1  table- 
spoon of  salt;  cook  until  easily  pierced  with  a  fork,  then  drain, 
and  mash;  add  t  tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  sweet  milk  or  cream;  beat 
the  turnips  until  all  is  smooth,  then  add  a  few  dashes  of  pepper. 
Excellent  for  dinner  with  roast  pork. — Mrs.  Wm.  M.  Harpell,  4948 
St.  Anthony  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


424  '     VEGETABLES 

FRIED  TURNIPS.— Boil  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Peel, 
slice  in  halves,  if  small,  otherwise  in  three.  Dip  in  flour,  and  fry 
in  hot  dripping.  Add  pepper.  Carrots  are  done  the  same  way,  but 
peel  first. — Mrs.  Emma  Jenkins,  6352  Monroe  Ave.^  Chicago,  111. 

MASHED  TURNIPS.— Swede  turnips  are  very  much  nicer 
after  getting  a  slight  frost,  and  by  adding  a  cup  of  sugar  as  well 
as  a  little  salt,  while  boiling.  When  done,  drain,  mash  fine,  season 
to  taste,  with  a  little  more  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  or  some  nice 
gravy. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann,  5069  N.  Lincoln  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

TURNIPS  AND  POTATOES.— Slice  6  peeled  turnips,  soak  in 
cold  water  for  J/^  an  hr.,  drain,  cover  with  cold  salted  water,  and 
when  half  done,  add  2  large,  peeled  and  sliced  potatoes.  Cook 
until  done,  drain,  mash,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  sugar, 
and  reheat,  moistening  with  a  little  milk  or  brown  sauce.  Equal 
quantities  of  turnips  and  potatoes  may  be  used. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Ma- 
rion, 1504  E.  53rd  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ROAST  TURNIPS.— Partboil  small,  peeled  turnips  until  nearly 
tender,  drain,  and  put  into  the  pan  with  a  roast  of  mutton  for  45 
minutes.  Baste  with  drippings,  and  serve  around  the  mutton. — ■ 
Mrs.  Andrew  Parker,  6421  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

STUFFED  TURNIPS.— Boil  white  turnips  in  salt  water  until 
tender.  Scoop  out  centers  and  fill  with  sausages.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  until  sausages  are  done. — Mrs.  Frederic  Sharp,  700  S. 
3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

STUFFED  TURNIPS.— The  purple-topped,  flat,  white  turnips 
are  best  for  this.  Peel,  boil  until  tender,  and  cut  a  slice  off  the  top. 
Scrape  out  the  inside,  mash,  and  mix  witTi  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  salt 
and  butter,  and  a  teaspoon  of  flour.  Refill,  and  place  top  on.  Bjeat 
white,  and  cover  cut  edges,  and  place  in  oven  until  cooked  through, 
and  white  of  egg  begins  to  brown. — Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Nelson,  4860 
Kenilworth  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


Cheese,  Macaroni,  Spaghetti, 
Nut  and  Rice  Dishes. 


CHEESE  DISHES 

CHEESE  BALLS.— 1^  cups  grated  cheese,  1  teaspoon  flour, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Mix  all 
together,  form  in  small  balls  the  size  of  a  marble,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  drop  in  boiling  fat,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Serve 
on  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs.  Anna  Minteer,  418  S.  20th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

CHEESE  CAKE.— 1  lb.  of  cheese  rubbed  through  a  sieve, 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  cream,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
flour,  grated  rind  of  lemon,  1  ta'blespoon  vanilla,  white  of  4  eggs, 
beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  a  spring  form  lined  with  a  pie-crust  dough, 
to  which  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  has  been  added. — Mrs.  N. 
Williams,  4548  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE.— Take  sour  milk,  cream  and  all,  and 
scald  with  boiling  water  poured  over  it  until  the  milk  separates 
from  the  whey.  Then  strain  off  the  water  and  let  the  milk  drain 
in  a  cheesecloth  for  10  hrs.  Remove  and  run  through  a  grinder  to 
make  it  fine  and  creamy,  mix  with  sweet  cream,  and  season  to 
taste. — Gladys  Harris,  1730  Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

CREAMED  CHEESE.— Slice  or  cut  in  dice  cheese,  add  milk 
to  cover,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  When  thoroughly 
heated  and  melted,  serve  in  a  deep  dish  on  toast  or  crackers. — • 
Sarah  W.  Harris,  1730  Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

CHEESE  FONDU.— 1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  2  scant  cups  milk, 
Yi  lb.  dry  cheese,  grated,  3  eggs,  beaten  light,  1  small  tablespoon 
butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Soak  crumbs  in  the  milk,  beat  into  this 
the  eggs,  butter  and  seasoning,  lastly  the  cheese.  Pour  fondu  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish,  strew  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in 
a  rather  quick  oven,  until  a  delicate  brown.     Serve  immediately,  as 

425 


426  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

it  soon  falls. — Mrs,  Lavina  Stevens,  136  S.  20th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

SARDINES  AND  CHEESE.— Warm  some  sardines  in  the  oil 
from  the  tin.  Add  pepper  and  salt  and  juice  of  a  lemon.  When 
hot,  lay  the  sardines  on  a  hot  plate,  sprinkle  grated  cheese  over 
them.  Thicken  the  sauce  with  a  little  flour  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
and  pour  over  the  sardines. — Mrs.  Wm.  B.  M.  Brauer,  1704  Park 
Ave,  Chicago,  111. 

CHEESE  STRAWS.— 1  cup  butter  or  lard,  1  cup  of  water, 
mix  as  for  pie-crust,  roll  out  thin  and  cover  one-half  with  grated 
cheese,  fold  other  half  of  crust  over  and  press  together,  cut  in 
lengths  1  inch  wide  and  2  or  3  inches  long,  and  bake  in  oven  a 
little.  Salt  may  be  sprinkled  on  top,  if  preferred. — Mrs.  M.  L. 
Adams,  576  Willow  St.,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Make  a  good  pastry  dough,  say  2  cups  of 
flour  and  1  cup  of  part  lard  and  part  butter,  with  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Roll  out  very  thin  and  scatter  grated  cheese  over  half  of  it;  then 
turn  the  other'  half  over  the  cheese  and  roll  again  till  cheese  be- 
gins to  show  through,  then  cut  in  strips  }^  inch  wide  and  2  inches 
long,  and  bake  10  minutes  in  quick  oven. — 'Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen,  423 
9th  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

WELSH  RAREBIT.— Fill  lower  part  of  double  boiler  with 
hot  water.  In  top  put  1  large  tablespoon  butter,  melt;  stir  in  1 
tablespoon  flour.  Blend  and  add  1  cup  milk,  previously  heated. 
Pinch  of  salt.  Stir  in  1J4  cups  grated  cheese.  Let  cook  gently  a 
few  minutes,  then  place  on  toast. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen,  423  9th  Sit., 
Wilmette,  111. 

WELSH  "WELSH  RAREBIT."— Thick  slices  of  bread,  cut 
across  the  whole  loaf,  spread  with  a  layer  at  least  half  as  thick  as 
the  bread,  of  rich  cream  cheese,  crumbled  fine.  On  top  of  this 
spread  evenly  a  thin  layer  of  bacon,  chopped  very  fine;  according 
to  taste,  a  sprinkling  of  pepper  was  added  and  a  wineglass  of  ale, 
or  enough  to  slightly  wet  the  bread,  was  poured  over  the  whole. 
The  slices  prepared  were  placed  in  a  hot  oven  and  left  until  the 
bread  was  dried  through,  the  cheese  melted  and  the  bacon  crisped. 
This  is  the  standard  breakfast  in  Welsh  homes,  washed  down  with 
a  pot  of  English  tea,  almost  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg.— Mabel 
Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         427 

MACARONI 

BAKED  MACARONI.— Break  into  inch  lengths,  J^  lb.  maca- 
roni. Boil  it  until  tender  in  weak  broth.  Drain  off  the  liquor,  and 
put  the  macaroni  in  a  pudding  dish  that  will  stand  the  fire;  pour 
over  it  a  5^  cup  of  the  stock  in  which  it  was  boiled,  and  put  a  table- 
spoon of  butter,  hroken  in  small  pieces,  here  and  there  through  it. 
Sift  over  it  fine  bread  crumfcs  and  grated  cheese;  dot  with  bits  of 
butter,  and  brown  it  in  the  oven.— Mrs.  J.  S.  Norris,  1314  Forest 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Break  ^  a  lb.  of  macaroni  into  short 
lengths;  cook  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water.  It  must  be 
clear  and  soft,  but  not  broken.  Drain,  and  put  a  layer  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  buttered  pudding  dish.  Dot  with  butter,  sprinkle  lightly 
with  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste;  cover  with  grated  cheese,  and  on 
this  dispose  of  another  layer  of  macaroni.  Fill  the  dish  in  this 
order,  having  cheese  for  the  top  layer.  Pour  in  a  cup  of  milk, 
cover,  and  bake  J^  an  hr.  Uncover,  and  brown. — Mrs.  F.  A.  Les- 
ter, Essex  Rd.,  Kenilworth,  111. 

CREAMED  MACARONI  ON  TOAST.— 1  cup  thin  white 
sauce,  1  cup  boiled  macaroni,  5^  cup  grated  cheese,  6  slices  toast 
(buttered),  add  macaroni  to  sauce,  cook  for  several  minutes.  Pour 
over  toast,  place  on  baking-pan,  dust  with  cheese,  set  on  top  shelf 
of  oven  for  some  time. — Mrs.  Jas.  M.  Northcott,  807  Forest  Avje., 
Wilmette,  111. 

CREAMED  NUT  MACARONI.— The  fresh  hickory  nuts,  or 
chestnuts,  whichever  are  available,  are  equally  nice  for  this  dish. 
Allow  1  lb.  of  nuts  to  1  lb.  of  macaroni.  Boil  your  macaroni  in 
slightly  salted  water  until  tender,  then  drain,  and  mince,  not  too 
finely.  Line  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  grated  triscuit  or  shred- 
ded wheat,  and  a  layer  of  minced  nuts,  then  a  layer  of  macaroni;' 
repeat  this  until  dish  is  filled.  To  1  pt.  of  cream,  add  a. dash  of 
cayenne,  a  little  salt,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  boil  up  and  pour 
over  macaroni,  and  place  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly. — Dr.  Elijah 
Harris,  1730  Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

MACARONI  CROQUETTES.— 1  pt.  of  cold  boiled  rice,  mac- 
aroni, spaghetti  or  vermicelli.  Heat,  and  moisten  with  a  little 
thick  white  sauce;  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  2  tablespoons  of 


428         CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

grated  cheese,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cool,  shape,  roll  in 
crumbs,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  crumbs  again,  and  fry. — Mrs.  Jas.  M. 
Northcott,  807  Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  III. 

ITALIAN  MACARONI.— When  the  macaroni  ha?  been  boiled 
and  strained,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  pepper,  a  little  butter,  and 
grated  cheese.  Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  keep  stirring  until  the  cheese 
is  all  melted.  Do  not  let  it  cook,  as  the  cheese  would  turn  oily. — ' 
Mrs.  Jas.  M.  Northcott.  807  Forest  Ave..  Wilmette.  111. 

MEXICAN  MACARONI.— Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  and  when  melted,  stir  into  it  ^4  a  can  of  tomatoes.  1 
small,  sweet.  gre>n  pepper,  seeded  and  chopped  fine,  1  large  onion, 
chopped  fine,  and  l4  a  teaspoon  salt.  Cover,  and  let  cook  very 
slowly  for  about  40  minutes.  Then  press  through  a  coarse  «ieve 
and  put  in  a  double  boiler  to  keep  hot.  Boil  %  oi  z  package  of 
macaroni  for  20  minutes,  drain,  and  pour  over  it  the  hot  sauce. — 
Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen.  423  9th  St,  Wilmette.  111. 

MACARONI  PUDDING.— Yolks  of  five  eggs,  beaten  with  4 
tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  a  tumbler  of  white  wine.  Boil 
until  thick,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  ^  lb.  macaroni,  arranged  on 
dish,  pour  over  mixture  and  whites  of  beaten  and  sweetened  eggs 
over  top.  Dress  with  chopped  almonds  and  citron  on  top,  and  set 
in  oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  N.  Williams.  4548  Prairie  Ave..  Chicago. 
111. 

MACARONI  OR  SPAGHETTI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

— Break  the  macaroni  into  inch  lengths,  or  the  spaghetti  into  3-inch 
lengths:  or  place  the  ends  of  spaghetti  in  hot  water,  and  coil  it  as  it 
softens;  cover  with  plenty  of  water,  and  boil  until  soft,  about  45 
minutes  generallv  being  required.  Stir  often  to  prevent  it  sticking 
to  the  kettle.  Turn  into  a  sieve  and  drain  thoroughly.  Place  in- 
the  serving-dish,  and  cover  with  tomato  sauce.  Also  serve  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  with  it.  This  cheese  may  also  be  mixed  in  with 
the  tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  F.  A.  Lester,  Essex  Rd.,  Kenilworth,  111. 

STEWED  MACARONI  AND  CELERY.—^  lb.  celery,  1  qt. 
boiling  water.  1  qt.  milk,  2  oz.  butter.  1  oz.  flour.  1  pt.  liquid  in 
which  the  macaroni  and  celery  have  been  boiled.  Break  ^4  lb. 
macaroni  into  pieces  about  2  inches  long,  and  put  it  into  1  qt.  of 
boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt.     Cook  for  20  minutes.     Wash    2 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  429 

bunches  of  celery,  and  cut  it  into  pieces  about  2  inches  in  length. 
Put  into  the  saucepan  with  the  macaroni.  Add  1  qt.  milk,  and  cook 
until  the  celery  is  tender — about  Ij^  hrs.  Strain.  Make  a  sauce 
with  2  ozs.  of  butter  and  1  oz.  of  flour,  and  1  pt.  of  the  liquid.  Sear 
son,  add  the  macaroni  and  celery,  and  serve.  The  liquid  left  over 
should  be  used  for  soups  and  sauces. — Mrs.  Arthur  W.  Allen,  1029 
13th  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

MACARONI  AND  TOMATO  DISH.— Boil  macaroni  in  salt- 
ed water  for  20  minutes,  and  drain.  Have  ready  1  cup  of  onions, 
fried  in  gravy  or  butter,  also  J^  a  cup  of  grated  cheese.  Put  a 
layer  of  macaroni  in  a  greased  dish,  then  a  layer  of  cheese,  anothejr 
of  macaroni,  then  fried  onions,  and  1  cup  or  more  of  tomatoes,  if 
they  are  not  very  juicy,  then  another  layer  of  macaroni  and  cheese. 
Sprinkle  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  over  the  top,  and  bake  in  the 
oven  till  a  golden  brown. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen,  423  9th  St.,  Wilmette, 
111. 

NUT  DISHES 

NUT  CHEESE.— Put  Ya  lb.  almonds,  ^  lb.  pine-nuts,  J^  lb. 
of  pecans,  J^  lb.  of  filbert  or  hazel  nuts,  J/2  lb.  of  roasted  peanuts 
through  the  nut  grinder.  Knead  the  mixture  until  it  becomes  a 
little  soft,  pack  closely  into  tumblers,  or  into  baking  powder  boxes, 
and  stand  at  once  in  a  cold  place.  When  wanted  for  use,  hold  the 
boxes  in  hot  water,  until  the  nuts  are  sufficiently  warm  to  slip  out 
easily;  cut  the  cheese  down  into  slices,  and  serve  in  place  of  meat. 
—Dr.  Elijah  G.  Harris,  1730  Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

NUT  CROQUETTES.— Mix  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs  with  1 
cup  of  finely  chopped  nuts;  season  with  J^  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a 
dash  of  pepper;  drop  in  1  unbeaten  tgg,  and  mix  thoroughly;  roll 
in  tgg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  oil  or  fat.  Vegetar- 
ians would  use  either  olive  or  cottonseed  oil,  or  cocoanut  butter. 
Serve  with  tomato  sauce. — Dr.  Elijah  G.  Harris,  1730  Forest 
Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

NUT  HASH. — Use  cold  steamed  nut  loaf,  and  the  same  amount 
of  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Chop  the  potatoes  and  the  loaf  sepa- 
rately, and  add  to  them,  after  mixing,  %  as  much  chopped  onion, 
or  less.     Turn  into  a  frying-pan  which  contains  melted  butter,  well 


430  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

covering  the  bottom,  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  fre- 
quently with  a  knife  during  the  first  10  minutes'  slow  cooking;  let 
the  hash  brown  on  the  'bottom,  shaking  the  pan  vigorously  from 
time  to  time,  and  turn  out  with  the  browned  portion  on  the  top. — 
Dr,  Elijah  G.  Harris,  1730  Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

APRIL  NUT  LOAF.— Put  1  cup  of  Brazil  nuts  through  the 
mill.  To  this  add  1  cup  of  potatoes,  1  cup  of  hot  boiled  rice,  2 
eggs,  beaten  light,  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  onion,  chopped 
fine,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  chopped  fine,  and  2 
tablespoons  of  cracker  crumbs.  Mould  into  a  loaf,  pour  over  all 
2  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. — Mrs,  C.  Car- 
son, 205  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

NUT  LOAF. — Mix  3  cups  of  stale  bread  or  cracker  crumbs, 
1J4  cups  of  chopped  hickory  nuts,  Ij^  cups  seeded  raisins,  Yt.  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Add  enough  hot  water  to  moisten.  Cover  and  let 
stand  10  minutes,  add  1  cup  of  hot  water,  and  turn  into  buttered 
pan.  Bake  1^  hrs.  in  moderate  oven,  and  serve  cold. — Mrs.  F.  A. 
Lester,  Essex  Rd.,  Kenilworth,  111. 

OTHER  USES  OF  NUTS.— Chopped  almonds,  pecan-nuts, 
and  pine-nuts,  or  any  nut  or  nuts  desired,  instead  of  specified  nut, 
may  be  sprinkled  over  lettuce  and  covered  with  French  dressing 
for  a  dinner  salad.  Pine-nuts  may  be  stuffed  into  fboned  meats, 
in  place  of  other  stuffings.  They  may  also  be  added  to  made  meat 
dishes.  Or  they  may  be  sligluly  dusted  with  salt  and  served  the 
same  as  salted  almonds.  Nuts  may  be  added  to  the  cream  vegeta- 
ble soups;  for  instance,  asparagus  soup  may  be  made  after  the 
ordinary  recipe,  omitting  the  butter  and  flour,  and  adding  4  table- 
spoons of  peanut  meal,  or  4  tablespoons  of  pine-nut  butter;  or  one 
may  add  the  mixed  butters,  and  in  this  way  make  many  varieties. 
An  inventive  mind  will  create  from  these  recipes  from  50  to  60 
soups.  Potato  soup,  cream  of  corn  soup,  cream  of  pea  or  bean 
soup,  salsify,  turnips  or  carrots,  may  be  used ^ with  combinations 
of  nuts.  Diabetics  may  use  soups  made  from  such  vegetables  as 
spinach,  lettuce,  celery  and  turnip;  thicken  and  flavor  them  witlh 
almond,  pine-nut  or  desired  nut  butter. — Dr.  Elijah  G.  Harris,  1730 
Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

BRAZIL  NUT  BUTTER.— These  nuts  being  very  rich  in 
fatty  matter  make  the  best  of  all  nut  butters.    They  cannot  be 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  431 

blanched.  With  a  very  sharp,  thin  knife,  trim  off  the  brown  skins, 
being  careful  not  to  soil  the  nuts.  Grind,  pack  in  glasses,  cover, 
and  keep  in  a  cool  place. — Dr.  Elijah  G.  Harris,  1730  Forest  Ave'., 
Wilmette,  111. 

PEANUT  BUTTER.— Roast  the  nuts,  shell,  and  blow  off  the 
skins,  When  making  it  in  large  quantities  it  will  pay  to  have  a 
bellows  for  this  purpose,  or  put  the  peanuts  on  a  coarse  towel;c, 
cover  them  with  another  towel,  rub  them  gently,  then  blow  off. 
the  skins.  If  you  use  salt,  dust  them  lightly  with  it  and  grind  at 
once.  Pack  the  butter  into  glass  jars  or  tumblers,  cover  them,  and 
keep  in  a  cool  place.  Dilute  with  water  or  cream  to  use. — Dr. 
Elijah  G.  Harris,  1730  Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111.   • 

PEANUTS  AND  RICE.— Have  2  cups  rice,  well  cooked,  and 
salted,  and  while  hot  stir  in  1  cup  of  peanut  butter,  stirring  until 
all  is  well  mixed.  Then  add  ^  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 
lastly  1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  leaving  some  to  spread  over  the  top. 
Shape  into  a  round  loaf,  place  in  a  buttered  pan  and  spread  the 
remainder  of  the  cracker  crumbs  over  the  top.  Bake  till  a  nice 
brown,  and  serve  on  a  hot  plate,  garnished  with  parsley. — Dr. 
Elijah  G.  Harris,  1730  Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

SALTED  PEANUTS.— Get  raw  Virginia  peanuts  from  any 
wholesale  house.  They  are  usually  shelled.  There  is  then  a 
brown  skin  to  be  removed.  Do  this  by  covering  the  nuts  with 
boiling  water  and  letting  them  stand  for  10  minutes.  The  skins 
can  be  easily  removed  then.  Next  roll  the  skinned  peanuts  in  a 
soft,  dry  cloth,  until  they  are  quite  dry.  Then  fry  them  in  a  fine 
wire  basket  in  deep  boiling  lard  (it  is  much  more  satisfactory  and 
just  as  wholesome  as  cheap  olive  oil  or  butter).  When  they  are 
brown  spread  them  upon  brown  paper  to  absorb  the  grease  which 
is  on  and  in  them.  Then  sprinkle  salt  upon  them.  When  cool 
put  into  a  covered  mason  jar,  and  they  will  remain  fresh  for  a 
long  time. — Mrs.  Helen  Williams,  6032  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

NOODLES 

BOILED  NOODLES.— Boiled  noodles  are  delicious  served 
with  any  brown  sauce,  cream,  white,  Hollandaise,  piquante,  or 
tomato  sauce,  and  can  be  used  as  directed  for  macaroni.     They 


432  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

can  be  bought  already  made. — Mrs.  Wm.  Daily,  3208  S.  Wabash 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BUTTERED  NOODLES.— Beat  2  eggs  slightly,  add  2  table- 
spoons of  milk,  and  ^  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Stir  in  the  flour,  enough 
to  make  a  very  stiflF  dough.  Knead  it  till  as  stiff  as  possible.  Roll 
it  out  into  rectangular  pieces,  and  so  thin  that  you  can  see  through. 
it.  Lay  them  on  a  napkin  about  Yz  an  hr.,  till  they  are  dry,  but 
not  brittle.  Rub  over  with  a  littk  flour,  so  that  it  will  not  stick. 
Roll  up  tight  and  hard,  then  slice  off  from  the  end  about  y%  of  an 
inch  thick.  Shake  them  out  till  long  and  straight.  Put  them  into 
boiling  salted  water,  stir  them  at  first  to  prevent  them  sticking., 
and  cook  until  they  swell  and  come  to  the  top  of  the  water.  Skim 
them  out  into  a  dish  for  serving.  Melt  Yz  a  cup  of  butter  in  a 
frying-pan,  put  half  a  slice  of  bread,  crumbled  finely,  in  the  butter, 
stir  until  golden  brown,  then  spoon  up  butter  and  bread,  and  pour 
over  the  noodles.  Pass  sapsago  cheese  with  the  noodles.  If  any 
be  left  over  warm  it  in  butter  until  a  delicate  brown,  and  stir  in  3 
or  4  beaten  eggs;  serve  as  soon  as  firm.  This  makes  a  nice  relish 
for  supper. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Alexander,  1003  Central  Ave.,  Wilmette, 
III. 

NOODLES  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE.— Use  2  tablespoons  of 
butter,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  1  pt.  of  milk  for  the  cream  sauce. 
Season  with  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  ^  teaspoon  of  pepper.  When  the 
sauce  is  cooked,  add  ^  package  of  noodles,  which  have  been 
cooked  in  boiling  water,  salted. — Mrs.  B.  Haley,  1426  S.  Wabash 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

GERMAN  NOODLES.— Put  2  cups  of  dried  noodles  into 
boiling  salted  water,  let  them  cook  rapidly  for  20  minutes,  drain, 
and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  1  cup 
of  brown  sauce,  to  which  has  been  added  1  tablespoon  of  reduced 
vinegar,  and  a  few  capers,  if  liked.  Serve,  when  thoroughly  heated 
through,  and  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper  when  in  the  dish. — Mrs. 
M.  Gorman,  3855  Cottage  Grove  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

NOODLES  WITH  MEAT  GRAVIES.— A  good  luncheon 
dish  is  made  by  using  the  gravy  left  from  the  dinner  roast,  and  re- 
heat without  boiling.  Then  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  ^^z  noo- 
(fles,  previously  cooked  in  boiling  salted  water. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Adl- 
ams,  576  Willow  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  433 

ITALIAN  NOODLES.— Put  2  cups  of  dried  noodles  into  boil- 
ing water,  salted,  let  cook  20  minutes,  drain,  and  put  in  a  saucepan 
with  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  1  cup  of  tomato  sauce  or  chutney. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  with  the  top 
well  sprinkled  with  grated  cheese. — Mrs.  Wm.  Patton,  5120  Indiana 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

NOODLES  ESCALLOPED  WITH  TOMATOES.— After 
the  noodles  have  been  cooked,  put  a  layer  of  egg  noodles,  and 
then  a  layer  of  tomatoes  in  a  dish,  until  the  dish  is  nearly  filled. 
Pour  over  them  a  sufficient  quantity  of  cream  sauce  to  moisten  the 
contents,  and  'bake  15  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste. — Mrs.  C.  Jones,  3569  Rhodes  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SWISS  NOODLES.— Beat  3  eggs  without  separating;  add 
them  gradually  to  Yi  pt.  flour,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
mix  well.  This  dough  should  drop,  not  pour,  from  the  spoon.  Put 
the  mixture  in  a  pastry  bag.  at  the  end  of  which  you  have  a  small, 
plain  tube.  Press  the  dough  out  in  strips  1  inch  long,  into  a  kettle 
of  boiling  salted  water.  Cook  for  Xy^  hrs.,  drain,  dish,  pour  over 
2  ta'blespoons  butter,  melted,  dust  with  4  tablespoons  grated 
cheese,  and  serve  at  once.  These  are  all  nice  served  with  cottage 
cheese.  These  noodles  lose  their  lightness  if  allowed  to  stand  too 
long  before  serving. — Mrs.  B.  Hubert,  3733  Elmwood  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

LEFT-OVER  NOODLES.-^Warm  any  left-over  noodles  in 
butter  until  a  delicate  brown,  and  stir  in  3  or  4  well-beaten  eggs; 
serve  as  soon  as  firm.  This  makes  a  nice  relish  for  supper.— Mrs. 
Ed.  R.  Hamilton,  3415  Vernon  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

RICE 

BAKED  RICE. — Let  1  cup  of  rice  soak  several  hours,  in  2 
cups  of  warm  water.  Drain,  and  put  in  a  baking-dish,  and  cover 
with  3  cups  of  milk,  containing  Y^  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cover  the 
dish,  and  let  bake  slowly  for  an  Kr.,  or  until  the  milk  is  absorfbed, 
and  the  separate  grains  of  rice  are  smooth. — Mrs.  Jas.  M.  North- 
cott,  807  Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

RICE  WITH  CHEESE.— Arrange  alternate  layers  in  but- 
tered baking-dish  of  boiled  rice,  grated  cheese,  butter,  and  season- 


434  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

ings.  Add  milk  to  half  the  depth.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs, 
bake  until  cheese  melts  and  crumbs  are  light  brown, — Mrs.  Wm. 
S.  Kris,  Abbotsford  Rd.,  Kenilworth,  111. 

RICE  CROQUETTES.— Put  2  cups  rice  into  a  bowl  with  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  1  well-beaten  egg,  and  grated  nutmeg.  Roll 
between  floured  hands  into  cone  shapes,  then  roll  in  bread  crumbs 
and  dip  into  1  egg  and  milk,  beaten  together,  and  again  in  bread 
crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat.— Mrs.  F.  A.  Lester,  Essex  Rd.,  Kenil- 
worth, 111. 

VARIATION  I. — Wash  J/^  cup  rice,  cook  until  tender,  drain, 

add  water  or  ^  cup  scalded  milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  butter;' 

cool,  shape,  roll  in  eggs  and  crumbs;  fry,  and  put  cubes  of  jelly^ 

on  each.— Mrs.  Arthur  W.  Allen,  1029  13th  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

/■ 

FRIED  RICE. — Steam  the  rice  till  done,  turn  into  a  perfo- 
,  rated  frying-basket,  and  pour  cold  water  over  and  dip  into  hot  fat 
until  brown.  Or  press  newly  boiled  rice  into  an  inch-deep  pan, 
cover  with  a  weight,  and  let  it  become  cold.  Cut  into  2-inch 
squares,  and  fry  until  brown  in  hot  "butter.  Serve  with  tomato  or 
curry  sauce.— Mrs.  Arthur  W.  Allen,  1029  13th  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

MOULDED  RICE.— Boil  a  cup  of  raw  rice  10  minutes;  drain, 
and  pour  over  it,  in  place  of  the  water,  2  cups  of  chicken  gravy,  or 
stock  made  from  chicken,  duck  or  turkey  bones,  seasoned  well; 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  onion  juice.  Set  in  boiling  water,  uncov- 
ered, and  cook  gently  until  quite  dry.  Turn  into  a  bowl  wet  with 
hot  water,  press  down  firmly  and  reverse  the  bowl  upon  a  hot 
platter.  Pour  any  stewed,  fricasseed  or  fried  meat  around,  or 
cover  the  mould  with  grated  cheese,  brush  all  over  with  beaten 
white  of  egg,  and  set  upon  the  top  grating  of  your  oven  to  color 
slightly.  The  rice  may  be  served  without  moulding  if  time  does 
not  permit. — Mrs.  E.  I.  Ahlesbrooke,  747  Lincoln  Ave.,  Winnetka, 
111. 

SPAGHETTI 

All  recipes  applying  to  macaroni  may  be  used  for  spaghetti. 

THE  AUTHOR. 

SPAGHETTI  IN  CHEESE  SHELL.— After  the  center  has 
been  scooped  from  a  pineapple,  or  Edam  cheese,  save  the  shell  for 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         435 

the  serving  of  spaghetti  or  macaroni.  Boil  the  spaghetti;  drain, 
blanch,  and  drain  again.  Twist  it  around  the  inside  of  the  cheese 
shell.  Make  a  J/2  pt.  of  cream  sauce,  and  pour  it  carefully  over 
the  spaghetti.  Stand  the  shell  on  a  piece  of  paper  in  the  bottom 
of  a  baking-dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven  for  15  or 
20  minutes.  Serve  on  a  napkin,  and  send  at  once  to  the  table. 
If  handled  carefully  the  shell  may  be  used  again.  The  cheese 
shell  imparts  a  delicious  flavor  to  this  most  sightly  dish. — Mabel 
E.  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SPAGHETTI,  ITALIAN  •fashion.— H  cup  of  cream,  or  54 
lb.  of  butter,  1  clove  of  garlic,  cheese.  Chop  2  lbs.  lean  beef  very 
fine;  add  to  it  6  good-sized  tomatoes  cut  in  halves,  and  the  seeds 
pressed  out.  Add  3  onions,  chopped,  and  J^^  pt.  of  water,  and  cook 
slowly  for  3  hrs.  Drain,  and  press  carefully.  Boil,  and  blanch  6 
ozs,  of  spaghetti;  put  it  into  the  strained  mixture,  add  the  salt; 
stand  it  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  to  cook  for  54  an  hr.  Cut  a 
clove  of  garlic  into  halves,  mash  it  in  the  spoon  with  which  you 
are  stirring  the  spaghetti;  add  the  cream  or  butter,  heat  well,  and 
turn  on  a  hot  platter.  Pass  with  it  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Beef 
extract  may  be  used  in  place  of  meat. — Mrs.  Jas.  M.  Northcott,  807 
Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  TOMATOES.— Take  ^  package  of  spa- 
ghetti and  pour  enough  hot  water  on  to  cover.  Let  boil  until  soft, 
then  put  Yt.  teaspoon  of  baking  soda  in  and  let  boil  up,  pour  off 
the  water  and  cover  with  cold  water  until  all  is  chilled.  Put  initio 
the  dish  to  bake,  and  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Take  J^  can  of 
tomatoes,  drain  off  the  juice,  and  put  into  a  pan  and  let  it  come  to 
a  boil.  Add  a  little  salt.  Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  a  little 
water,  add  to  the  tomato  juice;  also  put  in  a  tablespoon  of  sugar.. 
When  this  has  become  rather  thick,  pour  over  the  spaghetti  and 
put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  dots  over  the  top,  and  put  into  the 
oven  to  bake  for  ^  an  hr.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Marelius,  2329 
Cornelia  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Boil  J^  lb.  of  spaghetti  in  2  qts.  of  boiling 
water,  strain,  and  add  1  pt.  of  strained  tomatoes,  1  small  onion, 
chopped  fine;  season  to  taste,  with  salt  and  red  pepper.  Set  over 
a  very  small  flame  for  1  hr.  SIrve. — Mrs.  T.  Martin,  614  S.  7th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


436  CHEESE,   MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

SPAGHETTI  WITH  TOMATO  AND  ONION.— Boil  1  small 
package  of  spaghetti,  and  bleach,  chop  fine  and  fry  in  cu'bed  bacon 
(J4  lb.)  3  medium-sized  onions.  Stew  1  can  tomatoes,  with  pepper, 
salt  and  sugar  to  taste,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Put  all  to- 
gether, and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Robert  P.  Bruce,  405  S.  11th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

VERMICELLI 

Vermicelli  may  be  prepared  in  any  of  the  ways  applying  to 
Macaroni  or  Spaghetti,  • 

THE  AUTHOR. 

VERMICELLI  IN  MILK.— Boil  1  qt.  of  milk  and  drop  lightly 
into  it  6  oz.  of  vermicelli  which  has  been  blanched  in  boiling  water 
to  free  it  from  all  impurities.  Simmer  gently,  and  stir  frequently 
to  keep  it  from  getting  into  lumps.  When  tender,  sweeten  it,  and 
serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

SALADS 

ANCHOVY  SALAD.— If  the  flavor  of  garlic  is  liked,  rub  a 
salad  bowl  with  cut  garlic.  Cover  the  bowl  with  crisp  lettuce 
leaves.  Wash  and  clean  anchovies,  and  remove  skin  and  bone.  If 
salted  anchovies  are  used,  soak  for  an  hr.  in  cold  water.  The  an- 
chovies may  be  arranged  over  the  lettuce,  whole,  covered  with  may- 
onnaise dressing,  and  garnished  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  either  sliced 
or  put  through  a  vegetable  press  and  sprinkled  over.  The  ancho- 
vies may  also  be  cut  into  pieces,  or  into  tiny  slides  crosswise,  and 
sprinkled  with  minced  parsley,  onion  and  capers,  hard-^boiled  eggs 
and  salad  dressing. — Mabel  E.  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

APPLE  SALAD. — Mix  together  1  cup  of  apples,  chopped  fine, 
and  1  cup  chopped  nuts,  season  with  a  little  cinnamon,  garnish 
with  whipped  cream  and  bits  of  jelly,  and  serve  with  a  fruit  dress- 
ing.— Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Chop  apples  fine  or  slice  very  thin,  and  mix 
with  salad  dressing,  in  combination  with  any  or  as  many  of  the 
following  as  desired,  and  in  the  quantities  preferred:  Orange  or 
lemon  in  slices  or  small  pieces,  sliced  or  halved  maraschino  cher- 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  437 

ries,  or  malaga  grapes,  shredded  pineapple,  chopped  pimentos, 
shredded  green  peppers,  chopped  walnuts,  blanched  almonds,  pe- 
cans, filberts,  pistachio  nuts,  chestnuts  or  hazelnuts.  This  may  be 
served  on  crisp  lettuce,  cress  or  celery  tops  with  a  garnish  of  any 
kind  of  whole  nut  meats,  slices  of  fruit,  bleached  celery  tops,  sliced 
hard-boiled  eggs,  or  shredded  whites;  or  a  slice  may  be  removed 
from  the  top  of  large  red  apples,  and  the  pulp  scooped  out,  the 
shell  filled  with  the  salad  mixture  and  the  top  replaced.  Serve  on 
lettuce  leaves.  Where  orange  forms  a  part  of  the  salad,  the  orange 
shell  may  be  used  instead  of  the  apple. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

APPLE  AND  CRESS.— Pare  and  core  4  apples  into  short, 
even  sized  pieces.  Dress  with  oil,  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  salt  and 
paprika.  Dress  the  leaves  from  a  bunch  of  cress  in  the  same  man- 
ner. Dispose  the  apples  in  a  serving  dish,  with  the  cress  in  a 
wreath  around  it.  Serve  this  salad  with  game,  domestic  ducks, 
geese,  or  roast  pork. — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111., 

APPLE  AND  GRAPE  SALAD.— Peel  and  cut  4  large,  tart, 
apples  fine,  halve  and  seed  ^  lb.  white  grapes,  mix  or  arrange  in 
layers  in  a  salad  bowl  and  just  before  serving  add  salad  dressing, 
mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  sweet  cream. — Mrs.  Lighthart, 
811  N.  19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

APPLES  AND  ONION.— Boil  1  cup  qf  vinegar.  If  strong 
use  half  water.  Mix  1  teaspoon  of  mustard,  1  teaspoon  of  corn 
starch.  ^  teaspoon  of  salt,  J^  teaspoon  of  pepper  and  1  well-beaten 
egg.  Stir  this  into  the  boiling  vinegar  and  cook  until  creamy. 
Pour  it  over  2  mildly  acid  apples  and  1  onion,  chopped  fine.  Serve 
it  with  lettuce  cups. — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

APRICOT  SALAD. — Peel  and  split  ripe  apricots  and  serve  on 
lettuce  with  salad  dressing  made  without  mustard  and  with  lemon 
juice  instead  of  vinegar.  The  cavities  may  be  filled  with  mara- 
schino cherries  and  nuts,  if  desired.  Bananas,  oranges  and  peaches 
may  be  used  in  the  same  way,  separately,  or  in  combination.— Mrs. 
Robert  Randall,  908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

■Wf  ^■^''''~'  ~ 

ARTICHOKE   SALAD. — Cold   cooked    artichokes,    diced    or 

chopped,  may  be  served  on  crisp  lettuce   or  endive  with   desired 

salad  dressing,  or  in  combination  with  cold  boiled  tongue,  ham  or 


438         CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

any  other  meat  or  fowl,  truffles  cut  in  bits,  sliced,  minced  or 
chopped,  hard-boiled  eggs,  minced  chives,  minced  garlic,  tarragon, 
chervil,  parsley,  or  chopped  onions.  Young  artichokes  may 
be  quartered  and  served  on  lettuce  leaves,  or  served  whole  with 
the  chokes  and  inner  leaves  removed  and  replaced  with  minced 
parsley  and  salad  dressing. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD. — Cold  cooked  asparagus  tips  and  salad 
dressing  in  combination  with  minced  chervil,  sliced  radishes,  shred- 
ded celery,  capers,  minced  parsley,  diced  cold  potatoes,  shredded 
lettuce,  diced  or  sliced  cucumbers,  diced  cold  carrots,  diced  tur- 
nips, cold  or  raw,  cold  cooked  cauliflower,  flowerets,  truffles, 
shrimp,  lobster,  crawfish  tails,  chicken  or  any  cold  fowl.  Serve  on 
lettuce,  cress  or  celery  leaves,  and  garnish  with  capers,  pimentos, 
radishes  or  hard-boiled  eggs. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Use  only  about  3  inches  of  the  tip  end,  and 
cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender,  and  chill  thoroughly.  Serve  on 
a  platter,  and  pass  with  it  a  French  dressing,  served  in  small  dishes 
into  which  each  stalk  may  be  dipped,  as  desired. — Mrs.  H.  C. 
Waack,  5435  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  III. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD  MOULDED  IN  ASPIC— Put  a  little 
chicken  aspic  in  a  charlotte  mould  standing  in  ice  water;  when  set, 
arrange  upon  it  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg,  and  asparagus  points. 
Dip  cooked  asparagus  tips  in  aspic  and  press  against  the  chilled 
sides  of  the  mould;  when  firm,  fill  with  alternate  layers  of  aspara- 
gus, mixed  with  jelly  mayonnaise  and  aspic  jelly.  Serve  on  a 
larger  mould  of  the  same  with  lettuce  and  mayonnaise. — Mrs. 
Chris.  Worthington,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

ASPARAGUS  TIPS  SALAD.— Tie  12  asparagus  stalks  in  bun- 
dles of  3  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Remove 
the  string.  Arrange  on  1  head  crisp  lettuce,  on  individual  plates. 
Cut  1  tomato  into  4  rings  and  slip  a  bundle  of  the  cooked  aspara- 
gus through  each  ring,  place  on  lettuce  and  sprinkle  bits  of  finely 
chopped  pimento  over  the  whole.  Serve  with  French  dressing. — 
Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 

BANANA  SALAD. — Cut  bananas  into  sections  about  3  inches 
long.     Roll  each  piece  in  salad  dressing  and  then  in  finely  chopped 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         439 

« 

nuts.  Serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Garnish  with  nut  meats  and  with 
a  spoonful  of  dressing. — Miss  Ellen  Johnson,  6637  Carpenter  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cut  in  slices  lengthwise,  as  thick  as  a  dollar, 
arrange  so  the  slices  will  form  a  semi-circle,  and  form  a  hollow  cen- 
ter; pour  over  them  %  pt.  of  grape  juice,  sweet  with  sugar,  to  which 
add  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice.  Let  them  get  ice  cold,  then  filil 
center  with  whipped  cream,  piled  high. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Peel  bananas  and  cut  in  two  lengthwise, 
then  cut  across  in  quarters.  Roll  each  quarter  in  boiled  dressing, 
then  in  finely  chopped  walnuts.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Finely 
chopped  apple  may  be  added  to  the  nuts,  if  desired. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Nor- 
ris,  1314  Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

VARIATION  III. — 1  'banana,  whole,  cut  in  halves  or  sliced, 
on  a  lettuce  leaf;  pour  over  salad  dressing  and  add  ground  peanuts 
over  top. — Mrs.  Lighthart,  811  N.  19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BANANA  CROQUETTE  SALAD.-^Cut  bananas  into  halves. 
Drop  into  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  then  in  chopped  peanuts. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BAVARIAN  SALAD.— Boil  a  head  of  cauliflower  in  equal 
parts  of  milk  and  water,  until  tender.  Drain  and  break  into  small 
pieces,  then  set  aside  to  cool.  Have  ready  2  tablespoons  of 
chopped  olives,  and  2  tablespoons  of  minced  hickory  nuts.  Garnish 
salad  bowl  and  line  it  with  water  cress,  dip  each  piece  of  cauli- 
flower in  the  minced  olives  and  nuts  and  place  on  the  cress.  Pour 
over  salad  dressing,  and  serve  with  cheese  straws. — Mrs.  C.  Car- 
son, 205  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BEAN  SALAD. — Soak  a  qt.  of  beans  3  hrs.,  and  boil  them  till 
tender,  changing  water  before  boiling.  When  drained  and  thor- 
oughly cold,  put  some  chopped  raw  onion,  olives  and  parsley  in  a 
salad  bowl.  Use  6  spoons  of  salad  oil  to  2  of  vinegar.  Mix  well, 
and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

BAKED  BEAN  SALAD.— Peel  and  slice  3  onions  very  thin; 
put  into  cold  water  and  press  them  hard  to  remove   the   strong 


440  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

taste,  then  drain.  Put  1  qt.  of  baked  beans  into  the  salad  bowl; 
mix  in  the  onions  and  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  salt,  ^4  teaspoon  of 
pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  white  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  salad  oil,  and  1 
cup  of  vinegar;  mix  lightly  by  tossing,  and  garnish  with  olives. — 
Mrs.  Frank  MuUins,  Franklin,  111. 

FRENCH  BEAN  SALAD.— Soak  dried  French  beans  in  cold 
water  over  night,  drain  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water.  Cool, 
and  mix  with  FrencTi  dressing  seasoned  with  onion  juice,  and  serve 
on  lettuce,  garnishing  with  stuffed  olives.  Lima  beans  and  cold 
baked  beans  may  be  used  in  the  same  way.  Any  bean  salad  may 
be  sprinkled  with  minced  chives,  red  or  green  peppers,  parsley, 
pickles   or  olives. — Mrs.   May  C  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

LIMA  BEAN  SALAD. — Mix  cold  cooked  Lima  beans  with  any 
preferred  salad  dressing  and  combine  with  any  or  as  many  of  the 
following,  as  desired:  minced  chives,  sliced  tomatoes,  crisp  shred- 
ded lettuce,  chopped  mint,  minced  onion,  parsley,  chicken  or  fowl. 
— Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Bensen,  111. 

STRING  BEAN  SALAD.— Cold  string  beans  served  with  any 
desired  dressing  make  a  nice  salad  in  themselves,  but  may  be  com- 
bined with  minced  chives,  olives,  parsley,  thin  slices  of  fried  bacon, 
hard-boiled  eggs,  cold  potatoes,  cold  cooked  peas,  cold  cooked 
cauliflower  or  artichokes,  chopped  onions,  onion  juice,  tomato  cat- 
sup or  chopped  herbs. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

VARIATION  I. — Remove  the  strings  and  ends  of  1  qt.  of 
string  beans,  and  cook  in  salted  boiling  water.  When  ten- 
der, take  out  with  a  skimmer  and  put  them  into  cold  water.  Then 
drain  them  thoroughly.  Place  them  in  a  salad  bowl,  put  chopped 
parsley,  onion,  and  chervil  over  t"hem;  pour  in  some  French  dress- 
ing, and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

BEEF  SALAD. — Dice  or  shred  cold  beef,  mix  with  salad  dress- 
ing and  combine  with  any  or  as  many  of  the  following  vegetables 
as  desired:  Grated,  chopped  or  sliced  onion,  tomato,  Spanish  or 
green  pepper,  diced  cold  potatoes,  cold  peas,  cauliflower,  turnips, 
parsnips,  carrots,  minced  parsley,  shredded  lettuce  or  endive,  celery, 
sliced  or  chopped  beets,  gherkins,  sliced  cucumbers,  caibbage. — Mrs. 
Clark  Mason,  Bensen,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  441 

VARIATION  I. — Cold  chopped  or  cubed  beef  may  be  com- 
bined with  any  cold  fish  or  fowl,  as  shallots,  anchovies,  sardines, 
salmon,  cod,  chicken,  turkey  or  duck^  and  mixed  with  salad  dress- 
ing, and  garnished  with  parsley,  olives,  capers,  hard-boiled  eggs, 
horseradish,  tomato  catsup,  chopped  pickles  or  chives. — Mrs.  C.  E. 
Jefferson,  505  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Combine  chopped,  diced  or  shredded  cold 
beef  with  any  of  the  following  ingredients  and  salad  dressings: 
Horseradish,  Worcestershire  sauce,  tomato  catsup.  Chili  sauce,  any 
kind  of  mixed  pickles,  garlics,  hard-boiled  eggs,  chervil,  tarragon, 
sliced  pickles  and  capers. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

BEET  SALAD.— Add  salad  dressing  to  sliced,  cubed  or 
chopped  cold  boiled  beets,  either  fresh  or  pickled,  and  any  of  the 
following  ingredients  desired:  Dandelion  greens,  shredded  lettuce, 
string  beans,  any  cold  cooked  beans,  cold  potatoes,  turnips,  carrots, 
parsnips  or  cauliflower,  minced  parsley,  Spanish  onions,  cold  maca- 
roni, chopped  hard-boiled  eggs,  red  or  white  cabbage,  chopped,  an}' 
cold  fish,  fowl  or  meat,  sliced  cucumbers,  minced  chervil  and  tarra- 
gon, sliced,  chopped,  grated  or  the  juice  of  onion,  celery  or  celery 
root,  brussels  sprouts,  asparagus  tips,  green  peas,  or  nuts  of  any 
kind.  Serve  on  lettuce,  endive,  cress  or  dandelion  leaves,  or  in 
beet  cups,  made  by  cutting  a  slice  from  the  top  of  boiled  beets  and 
scooping  out  the  pulp. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  qt.  of  raw  cabbage,  chopped  fine,  1  pt.  of 
boiled  beets,  chopped  fine,  1^  cups  sugar,  1  cup  grated  horseradish, 
1  tablespoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  black  pepper,  cover  with  cold  vine- 
gar, and  keep  from  the  air;  garnish  with  curled  lettuce,  parsley  or 
celery. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Parboil  beets,  remove  the  skin,  cut  into 
thin  slices,  and  stew  with  small  onions  in  a  little  gravy,  thickened 
with  flour  and  cream.  Add  a  dessertspoon  of  vinegar,  seasonings, 
and  a  little  sugar.  Spread  the,  sliced  beets  on  the  dish,  placing  the 
onion  between  them.  Serve  with  cold  cheese  and  vinegar  poured 
over. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 


442  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

VARIATION  III.— Boil  or  bake  beets  until  tender,  peel  and 
slice,  cool  and  cover  with  a  dressing  made  of  2  tablespoons  of 
butter,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  boiled  up  once,  and  poured  over  the 
beets  as  they  go  to  the  table. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

BEETS  ALADDIN  SALAD.— Boil  until  tender  1  doz.  new 
beets,  and  remove  skins  with  a  coarse,  dry  towel.  Boil  in  a  sepa- 
rate vessel  a  qt.  of  new  peas  with  4  new  carrots.  When  &pne, 
dr^in  and  chop  carrots  fine,  mix  them  with  the  peas.  2  heaping 
tablespoons  of  butter  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Remove  center  of  the  beets,  and  fill  the  cavity  with  the 
peas,  carrots,  etc.,  then  place  in  steamer  over  boiling  water  so  that 
they  may  be  heated  thoroughly  before  serving.  Garnish  with  pars- 
ley. The  centers  of  beets  may  be  added  to  potato  salad  for  sup- 
per.— Mrs.  C.  Carson,  205  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BEET  AND  APPLE  SALAD.— Wash  the  beets  and  boil  in 
unsalted  water  until  tender.  Drain  and  slice,  sprinkling  over  them 
salt,  pepper  and  vinegar.  Place  aside  until  cold.  Pare  2  good- 
sized  apples,  or  enough  when  chopped  to  make  2  cups  of  pulp. 
Chop  in  a  separate  howl  beets  enough  to  make  1  cup.  Mix  the  two 
together  with  2  tablespoons  of  oil,  garnislj,  with  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  serve. — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

BEET  AND  BEAN  SALAD.— Boil  H  a  cup  of  small  kidney 
beans.  There  should  be  a  cup  when  cooked.  Cook  until  soft,  a 
pt.  of  tender  string  heaps,  cut  into  inch  lengths.  Boil  tender,  4 
large  or  6  small  red  beets.  Let  all  get  cold.  Dice  the  beets.  In 
the  Center  of  a  glass  dish  heap  the  beets,  next  the  white,  and  as  an 
out  ■  circle,  the  green  beans.  Edge  with  white  "heart"  lettuce 
leaves,  and  pour  a  French  dressing  over  all.  If  you  use  dried 
white  beans,  soak  them  for  6  hrs.  before  boiling. — Mrs.  Allan 
George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

BERKSHIRE  SALAD.— Marinate  1  cup  of  cold  boiled  fowl 
cut  into  dice  and  1  cup  French  chestnuts,  broken  in  pieces,  wifth 
French  dressing.  Add  1  grated  red  pepper  from  which  seeds  have 
been  removed,  1  cup  of  celery,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  mayon- 
naise to  moisten.  Trim  crackers,  4  inches  long  by  1  inch  wide, 
slightly  salted,  at  ends,  arrange  on  a  plate  in  form  of  a  box,  keep 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         443 

in  place  with  red  ribbon,  J^  inch  wide,  and  fasten  at  one  corner, 
tying  ribbon  in  a  bow.  Garnish  opposite  corner  with  a  sprig  of 
holly  berries.  Line  box  with  lettuce  leaves,  put  in  a  spoonful  of 
salad,  and  mask  with  mayonnaise.  Any  colored  ribbon  may  be 
used,  and  flowers  substituted  for  berries. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glen- 
coe,  111. 

BIRD'S  NEST  SALAD.— Fashion  small  nests  with  cooked 
spinach,  chopped,  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  oil  and  lemonj 
juice.  When  cold  arrange  in  the  nest  eggs  of  Neufchatel  cheese, 
flecked  with  paprika.  Shape  the  eggs  with  smooth  sides  of  butter 
paddles.  Fill  in  between  the  nests  with  dressed  lettuce  or  blanched 
celery'  tips.  Serve  with  brown  bread  and  butter  sandwiches.  In 
serving  the  nests,  use  a  broad-bladed  silver  knife. — Mrs.  D.  C. 
Daniels,  Arlington  Heights,  111. 

BOHEMIAN  SALAD.— Cover  the  bottom  of  a  salad  dish  with 
crisp  lettuce  leaves,  on  these  put  alternate  layers  of  boiled  beets 
and  hard  boiled  eggs,  sprinkle  with  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion, , 
and  serve  with  preferred  dressing.    This  is  a  nice  salad  to  serve 
with  braised  beef  or  mutton. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

BOLIVIA  SALAD.— Add  to  114  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
cut  in  y^  inch  cubes,  3  hard-^boiled  eggs,  finely  chopped,  Ij/^  tea- 
spoons finely  chopped  red  peppers,  Ij^  tablespoons  chopped  chives. 
Pour  over  cream  dressing,  and  serve  in  nests  of  lettuce  leaves. — 
Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

•  BRAZILIAN  SALAD. — Remove  skin  and  seeds  from  white 
grapes  and  cut  in  halves,  lengthwise.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of 
shredded  fresh  pineapple;  apples,  pared,  cored  and  cut  in  sniall 
pieces;  then  add  one-fourth  the  quantity  of  Brazil  nuts,  broken  in 
pieces.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  season  with  lemon  juice.  Moisten 
with  cream  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. — Chop  or  shred,  a  red  or  white  cabbage 
fine,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  add  salad  dressing,  garnish  with  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  and  serve.  The  chopped  cabbage  may  be  combined 
with  the  desired  choice  of  chopped  or  grated  onions,  sorrel, 
minced,  boiled  or  pickled  beets,  celery,  chopped,  cooked  celery 
root,  or  potatoes,  chives,  sliced  tomato,  diced  cold  carrots  or  pars- 
nips, cubed  turnips,  cooked  or  raw  minced  chevril,  chives  or  pars- 


444  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

ley,  chopped,  hard-boiled  eggs,  tomato  catsup,  Worcestershire 
sauce,  tobasco  sauce,  minced  garlic  or  sage.  Cold  fried  bacon,  any 
chopped  cold  pork,  corned  beef,  or  any  other  cold  meat,  fish  or 
fowl,  in  small  quantities  may  also  be  used.  Ca'bbage  salad  makes 
an  attractive  dish  when  served  in  beet  cups,  made  by  hollowing 
out  boiled  beets,  from  the  top  of  which  a  slice  has  been  removed. 
The  red* cup  with  the  white  filling  makes  a  nice  contrast.  If  red 
cabbage  is  used  turnips  may  be  used  for  cups  to  serve  it  in,  giving 
the  opposite  effect. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

VARIATION  I.— To  t  qt.  of  finely  chopped  cab'bage  add  Yz 
cup  of  chopped,  salted  Spanish  peanuts.  To  this  mixture  add  may- 
onnaise dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce, — Mrs.  Helen  Williams,  6032 
Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Cut  cabbage  very  fine,  sprinkle  salt  and 
pepper  over.  Cook  together  1  cup  vinegar,  1  egg,  3  tablespoons 
sugar,  a  little  dash  of  mustard,  and  pour  over  cabbage. — Mrs. 
Chas.  F.  Miller,  1509  St.  Charles  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CABBAGE  AND  CELERY  SALAD.— Remove  the  center 
from  a  very  firm,  white  cabbage.  Cut  very  fine  with  a  sharp  knife. 
Keep  in  ice  water  for  1  hr.  Drain  and  mix  with  equal  parts  of 
celery,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add  cream  dressing  and  refill  the  cab- 
bage. Arrange  on  a  folded  napkin  and  garnish  with  plumes  of 
celery  and  parsley. — Mrs.  E.  D,  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

HOT  CABBAGE  SALAD.— Pull  the  cabbage  apart,  scald  and 
leave  it  in  hot  water  for  15  minutes,  drain  and  dry  thoroughly. 
Chop  in  small  pieces  and  moisten  with  the  following  dressing:  2 
eggs,  2  ta'blespoons  of  sugar,  1  saltspoon  of  mustard,  butter  size  of 
a  nut,  1  cup  of  vinegar.  Mix,  and  let  almost  boil,  when  it  will 
thicken.  Add  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  cabbage  and  dressing  while 
the  water  is  hot. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Johnston,  Blue  Island,  111. 

CANTALOUPE  SALAD. — Cut  small  cantaloupes  in  two,  re- 
move seeds  and  fill  hollow  with  salad  dressing,  or  scoop  out  the 
pulp  and  mix  with  pounded  ice,  and  refill,  covering  with  salad 
dressing. — ^Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CARROT  SALAD. — Put  carrots  in  cold  water  for  several 
hours  before  being  chopped.     To  1  qt.  of  chopped  carrots  add  J/^ 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  445 

cup  chopped  salted   peanuts,  add  mayonnaise   dressing,  and  serve 
on  lettuce.— Mrs.  Helen  Williams,  6032  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Raw  carrots  may  be  shredded,  chopped  or 
grated,  mixed  with  salad  dressing  and  combined  with  any  vegeta- 
bles as  chopped  or  cubed  raw  turnips  or  cabbage.  Serve  on  let- 
tuce and  cover  with  salad  dressing.^Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennett,  Bartlett, 
111. 

CARTWHEEL  SALAD.— Crisp  1  bunch  of  lettuce  and  ar- 
range on  individual  salad  plates.  Peel  2  oranges  and  cut  in  J/2- 
inch  slices  crosswise.  Cut  4  ^-inch  slices  of  onion  crosswise. 
Arrange  1  slice  of  onion  between  2  of  orange,  place  on  lettuce  and 
pour  5^  cup  of  French  dressing  over  all.— Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD.— Res^ve  the  leaves  from  1  large 
cauliflower  and  boil  for  5^  hr.  in  slightly  salted  water.  Take  out, 
drain,  and  divide  it  into  small  branches.  Arrange  the  center  of  a 
dish,  and  garnish  with  strips  of  pickled  beets.  Pour  mayonnaise 
or  cream  dressing  over,  and  serve  quickly  with  hot  cheese  wafers. 
—Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — ^Separate  the  sprigs  or  flowerets  of  cold 
boiled  cauliflower,  put  into  the  salad  dish  a  head  of  lettuce  and 
cover  it  with  mayonnaise.  Arrange  the  cauliflower  sprigs  around 
the  dish^  heads  outward,  and  serve.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  pimen- 
tos, if  desired.— Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen,  423  9th  St.,'  Wilmette,  111. 

CAULIFLOWER  AND  BEET  SALAD.— Dress  flowers  of 
cold  cooked  cauliflower  with  oil,  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice.  Dress  the  shredded  outside  leaves  of  a  head  of  lettuce.  Cut 
a  beet  in  figures  and  the  chopped  trimmings,  each  separately,  with 
the  same  ingredients.  Dispose  the  lettuce  in  the  center  of  a  serv- 
ing dish,  and  the  carefully  drained  cauliflower  above.  Sprinkle 
with  the  figures  cut  from  the  beet,  and  dispose  the  chopped  beet 
in  points  around  the  central  mass.  Serve  mayonnaise  in  a  dish, 
apart. — ^Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 

CELERY  SALAD, — Slice  crisp  white  celery  across  the  stalk, 
forming  crescent-shaped  pieces,  or  chop  very  fine,  and  add  salad 
dressing.     To  the  above  salad  may  be  adde3  any  of  the  following" 


446  CHEESE,  MACARONI,   NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

ingredients:  Sweet  or  sour  apples,  malaga  grapes,  cheese,  boiled 
select  chestnuts,  blanched  almonds,  any  desired  nuts,  chopped  or 
broken,  cold  cooked  beans  of  any  kind,  sliced,  cubed  or  chopped 
cold  beets,  shredded  cab'bage,  diced,  cooked  or  raw  carrots  or  tur- 
nips, cooked  cauliflower  flowerets,  crisp  shredded  cress,  lettuce, 
endive  or  dandelion,  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs,  rose,  violet  or  nas- 
turtium petals,  minced  parsley,  chives,  nasturtium  seed  pods,  pi- 
mentos, radishes,  cooked  peas,  chopped  onions,  cold  cooked  sau- 
sages, any  meat,  fowl,  fish  or  game,  trufifles,  sweetbreads,  or  any 
meat  combination. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

VARIATION  I.— Pare  the  stalks  from  3  bunches  of  celery, 
clean  them,  wipe  dry  with  a  napkin,  chop,  and  fill  a  salad  bowl, 
adding  a  very  little  salt,  pepper,  and  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Do 
not  use  any  oil.-^Mrs.  Robert  S.  Appleton,  1128  Center  Ave.,  Wil- 
mette,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Boil  a  cup  of  milk,  thickened  with  1  table- 
spoon of  corn  starch,  dissolved  in  milk.  Mix  well  together  1 
beaten  egg,  2  teaspoons  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  %  teaspoon 
of  dry  mustard,  1  small  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Pour  this  into 
the  hot  milk  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  constantly.  'When  quite 
smooth  take  off  of  the  fire  and  add  a  tablespoon  or  more  of  vine- 
gar, to  suit  taste.  Mix  well  together  and  pour  over  celery,  cut 
into  very  small  bits. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Rowland,  506  S.  4th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

CELERY,  APPLE  AND  GREEN  PEPPER  SALAD.— Crisp 

the  stalks  of  celery  by  letting  them  stand  in  very  cold  water,  with 
a  slice  or  two  of  lemon,  J/^  an  hr.  Cut  the  stalks  into  bits,  pare 
and  cut  the  apples  into  slices,  and  the  slices  into  cubes,  sprinkle 
with  lemon  juice,  to  avoid  discoloring,  and  also  to  flavor.  Scald 
the  pepper  from  which  the  seeds  and  -veins  have  been  removed, 
and  cut  into  fine  shreds.  Mix  equal  portions  of  apple  and  celery 
with  such  quantity  of  pepper  as  is  desired.  English  walnuts,  pecan 
nuts  or  blanched  almonds,  cut  in  small  pieces,  may  be  added.  Mix 
with  mayonnaise  dressing,  whitened  with  whipped  cream,  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves, — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

CELERY,  APPLE  AND   PISTACHIO   SALAD.— Let   apple 
and  celery,  cut  Julienne  fashion  and  sprinkled  with  lemon   juice, 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  447 

stand  until  chilled.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing^  to  which  ^ 
cup  of  blanched  and  pounded  pistachio  nuts  has  been  added.  Gar- 
nish with  lettuce  and  rings  of  apple.  Sprinkled  with  lemon  juice 
to  keep  them  white;  decorate  with  stars  of  rnayonnaise,  and  halved 
pistachio  nuts  in  rings,  cut,  cored  apples  in  slices. — Mrs.  Clark  Ma- 
son, Bensen,  111. 

CELERY  CUPS. — Boil  some  medium-sized  celery  knobs  or 
roots  until  tender.  Drain,  peel,  and  allow  to  become  very  cool. 
Scoop  out  the  interior  with  a  small  bladed  knife  and  fill  the  cavity 
thus  formed  with  1  spoon  of  peas,  mixed  with  mayonnaise.  Place 
on  a  platter,  mask  the  celery  with  mayonnaise  and  garnish  with 
parsley.  Artichoke  bottoms  may  be  served  in  the  same  way. — 
Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

CELERY,  ENGLISH  WALNUT  AND  PIMENTO  SALAD. 

— Add  Yi  cup  of  beaten  cream  to  ^  of  a  cup  of  mayonnaise,  Ij/^ 
cups  of  sliced  celery,  ^  of  a  cup  of  English  walnuts,  and  2  chopped 
pimentos,  after  cutting  from  the  latter  some  fanciful  figures.  Ar- 
range in  nests  of  lettuce,  garnish  each  with  one  of  the  figures,  a 
nut,  and  celery,  and  place  celery  tips  between  the  nests. — Mrs. 
Roger  Rawlings,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

CELERY  JELLY  SALAD.— Chop  fine  a  head  of  celery,  in- 
cluding root  and  leaves.  Add  a  slice  of  onion,  a  small  carrot, 
sliced,  and  a  sprig  of  parsley.  Simmer  to  a  pulp  in  water  to  cover, 
adding  more  liquid  as  required.  Strain,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, tint  green  with  color  paste  or  spinach  juice,  and  add  enough 
soaked  and  dissolved  gelatine  to  stiffen.  Mould  in  a  border  mould, 
and  fill  the  center  with  chicken  and  nuts,  or  chestnuts,  roasted  or 
boiled,  and  mixed  with  mayonnaise.  Garnish  with  crisp  lettuce  or 
cress.— Mrs.  D.  C.  Everitt,  207  S.  6th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Boil  for  15  minutes,  J/^  a  can  of  tomatoes, 
a  tablespoon  of  grated  onion,  a  bay  leaf,  and  a  pinch  of  celery 
seed.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  and  add  J^  a  box  of  gelatin,  soaked, 
and  dissolved,  and  salt  and  lemon  juice  to  season.  Mix  with  finely 
cut  celery  and  mould  in  small  cups.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayon- 
naise.— Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn,  Wilmette,  111. 

CELERY  AND  ORANGE  SALAD.— Clean  a  bunch  of  celery, 
string  a  dozen  2-inch  pieces  and  make  all  crisp  in  cold  water,  to 


448  CHEESE,   MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

which  lemon  slices  have  been  added.  Wipe  the  stalks  dry,  then 
cut  into  bits  and  dress  with  French  dressing.*  Turn  onto  a  serving 
dish.  Garnish  with  slices  of  sour  orange,  cut  lengthwise  of  the 
orange,  then  in  halves  crosswise,  and  the  curled  celery.  Serve 
with  roast  duck. — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

CELERY  ROOT  SALAD.— Chop  together  3  stalks  of  celery, 
3  hard-boiled  eggs,  2  small  onions,  Yz  cup  vinegar,  3  boiled  pota- 
toes, J/2  pt.  cream.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne  and  pepper,  and 
serve  with  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood^, 
111. 

CELERY  STICKS— Thicken  salad  dressing  with  chopped 
nuts  and  grated  cheese;  when  thick  enough  to  handle  fill  the 
grooves  with  crisp,  clean  sticks  of  celery. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N, 
5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CELERY  CHEESE  STICK.— Cut  crisp  celery  into  4-inch 
lengths,  fill  the  cavity  with  pimento  cheese.  These  sticks  are  used 
in  place  of  wafers. — Mrs.  L.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Mlay- 
wood.  111. 

CHERRY  SALAD.— Remove  the  stones  from  1  qt.  of  ox- 
heart  cherries  and  insert  a  blanched  hazelnut  meat  in  each  one,  or  a 
piece  of  broken  walnut  meat.  Pour  over  them  the  juice  of  1 
lemon.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves  and  pour  mayonnaise  dressing 
mixed  with  whipped  cream.  The  white  canned  cherries  may  be 
-used  instead  of  fresh  ones.  This  salad  is  especially  appropriate  for 
a  Washington  Birthday  entertainment. — Mrs.  Jas.  M.  Northcott, 
807  Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Dissolve  1  box  of  gelatin,  pour  over  J^  pt. 
cherries.  Serve  with  meat. — Mrs.  Frederic  Sharp,  700  S.  3rd  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

CHEESE  AND  CELERY  SALAD.— Cut  blanched  celery 
stalks  into  small  pieces;  add  half  the  bulk  of  Edam  cheese,  broken 
or  cut  into  bits;  dress  with  French  dressing;  turn  into  a  salad  bowl, 
lined  with  heart  leaves  of  lettuce.  For  the  garnish,  remove  the 
center  from  half  a  tomato,  cut  the  edge  in  points  to  simulate  the 
petals  of  a  flower,  and  fill  with  2  or  3  celery  tips.  Serve  with  bread 
and  butter  sandwiches. — Mrs^  Roger  Rawlmgs,  Chicago  Heights, 
111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         449 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD.— Mix  1  minced  sweet  pepper 
or  6  pimentos  with  1  pt,  of  seasoned  cottage  cheese,  and  10  drops 
of  onion  juice.  Make  into  little  balls  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  French  dressing.  Ground  nuts  may  be  added,  if  liked. — Mrs. 
Robert  Appleton,  1128  Centre  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

CHEESE  AND  CURRANT  SALAD.— Mash  a  cream  cheese 
with  finely  chopped  lettuce.  Shape  in  balls,  arrange  on  lettuce 
leaves,  pour  over  French  dressing,  and  over  all  sprinkle  the  cur- 
rants.—Mrs.  L.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CHEESE  AND  OLIVE  SALAD.— Mash  a  cream  cheese, 
moisten  with  cream,  and  season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Add  6 
olives,  finely  chopped,  lettuce,  finely  cut,  and  ^  can  pimento,  cut 
in  strips.  Press  in  original  shape  of  cheese  and  let  stand  2  hrs. 
Cut  in  slices,  separate  in  pieces,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  with 
mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  L.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

CHESTNUT  SALAD.— Shell,  blanch  and  boil  until  tender  as 
many  chestnuts  as  needed.  Drain  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Boil  2 
eggs  hard.  Arrange  lettuce  in  a  salad  bowl,  put  the  chestnuts  over 
and  then  a  salad  dressing  made  of  lemon  juice,  olive  oil,  salt  and  a 
pinch  of  sugar.  Hold  a  small  sieve  over  the  salad,  grate  over  the 
chestnuts  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  over  all  lay  the  white  of  the  egg, 
cut  in  rings. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

CHICKEN  OR  FOWL  SALAD.— Trim  the  remains  of  a  cold 
roast  chicken,  duck,  goose  or  turkey;  w.ash,  dry,  and  shred  the  let- 
tuce, and  place  in  the  middle  of  the  dish.  Put  the  pieces  of  chick- 
en on  the  top,  and  pour  the  salad  dressing  over  them.  Garnish  the 
edge  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  rings,  sliced  cucumber,  and 
boiled  beet-root,  or  tomato,  cut  in  slices,  or  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
may  'be  rubbed  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  the  whites  chopped  fine, 
and  arranged  on  the  salad,  in  small  bunches,  yellow  and  white, 
alternately.  This  salad  should  not  be  made  long  before  it  is  want- 
ed for  the  table.  Sufficient  for  4  or  5  persons. — Mrs.  I.  S.  Alexan- 
der, 1003  Center  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cut  up,  not  too  fine,  1  boiled  chicken,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in  an  earthen  dish  with  very  little  of  the 
liquor  over  it,  just  enough  to  moisten  it.     Cut  about  equal  quantity 


450  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

of  celery  into  dice,  which  must  also  be  kept  in  earthen  dish,  and 
set  in  ice  chest.  When  ready  to  serve,  drain  the  celry  thoroughly 
and  mix  it  with  the  chicken  with  a  silver  fork,  cut  a  few  olives  in 
small  pieces  and  add,  also,  a  few  capers.  Use  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing with  it  or  salad  dressing  without  oil. — Eloise  Jennings,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Dice  equal  parts  of  cold  cooked  chicken  or 
veal  and  mix  with  the  same  quantity  of  sliced  celery.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  moisten  with  salad  dressing.  Arrange  in  lettuce 
cups  or  garnish  with  celery  tops,  and  just  before  serving  add  dress- 
ing on  top. — Mrs.  Conklin  914  5th  Ave.^  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  III.— Boil  the  chicken  until  it  is  tender,  and 
chop  in  small  pieces,  chop  also  the  whites  of  6  hard-boiled  eggs, 
add  an  equal  quantity  of  chopped  celery,  pound  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  fine,  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  butter,  1  teaspoon 
of  mustard,  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Finally,  add  half  a  tea- 
cup of  good  cider  vinegar.  Mix  thoroughly.  Nuts  are  an  im- 
provement and  may  be  ground  and  blended  with  the  egg  yolks, 
chopped,  and  added  to  the  celery,  or  served  whole,  over  the  top 
and  sides  of  the  mound  of  salad. — Mrs.  Arthur  Allen,  1029  13th  St., 
Wilmette,  111. 

VARIATION  IV.— Cut  cold,  boiled  chicken  into  dice.  With 
2  cups  of  this  meat,  mix  an  equal  quantity  of  celery,  cut  into  dice. 
Sprinkle  all  with  salt  and  pepper.  Into  3  tablespoons  of  oil  stir  a 
tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Pour  this  over  the  chicken  and  celery  and 
toss  until  well  mixed.  Line*  a  chilled  bowl  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves, 
fill  with  the  chfcken  salad  and  pour  mayonnaise  dressing  over  all. 
—Mrs.  H.  C.  Waack,  5435  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  V. — Remove  the  skin  and  fat  from  fowl,  pick 
fine  and  mix  with  heads  of  celery,  already  chopped.  Pour  over  it 
the  dressing. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Adams,  576  Willow  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

VARIATION  VI. — Chop,  shred  or  dice,  cold  cooked  chicken 
and  mix  with  salad  dressing,  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  endive, 
cress,  celery  tops  or  chopped  cabbage,  and  garnish  with  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  capers,  sliced  beets,  olives,  chopped  pickles,  nut-meats 
or  parsley.  Add  to  the  above  salad  mixture  any  of  the  following 
ingredients  to  taste:     Grated  cheese,  ham,  veal,  fish,  fowl,  or  any 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  451 

cold  meat,  sweetbreads  or  brains,  mushrooms,  any  kind  of  nuts, 
sliced  oranges  or  lemon,  stoned  olives,  capers,  parsley,  Spanish 
peppers.  Season  with  curry  powder,  sage,  pepper,  mustard,  gar- 
lic, celery  seed,  anchovy  paste,  bread  crumbs,  cooked  cauliflowerets, 
apple,  grapefruit,  carrots,  cooked  or  raw,  peas,  parboiled,  and  fried 
oysters,  truffles,  tongue,  pimentos. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago. 

VARIATION  VII. — Use  by  measure  twice  as  much  chicken  as 
celery;  cut  the  chicken  in  small  cubes,  do  not  chop  it.  and  mari- 
nade with  French  dressing.  When  ready  to  serve,  drain,  add  the 
celery,  and  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  If  boiled  dressing 
be  used,  marinate  the  chicken  with  part  of  that,  adding  more  with 
the  celery  when  ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  Chris.  Worthington,  Des 
Plaines,  111. 

MOCK  CASSEROLES  OF  CHICKEN.— Select  large,  smooth, 
tart  apples  of  good  flavor  and  uniform  size.  Remove  core  with 
knife.  Mince  cold  chicken  fine,  season  with  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne, 
pinch  of  powdered  thyme,  Yz  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  moistened  witli 
3  or  4  teaspoons  of  sweet  cream.  Fill  each  apple,  and  bake  in  oven. 
Serve  hot  or  cold,  with  mayonnaise  as  a  salad. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason, 
Bensen,  111. 

DUTCH  CHICKEN  SALAD.— 1  cup  each  of  cold  chicken  and 
German  sausage,  cut  into  dice,  ^  cup  each  of  chopped  pickles  and 
beets,  and  2  cups  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  sliced.  Add  a  small  her- 
ring, skinned,  boned  and  shredded,  2  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs,  and 
2  tablespoons  of  capers.  Pour  over  a  French  dressing,  season  it 
with  mustard,  garnish  with  anchovies,  and  serve  on  lettuce. — Mrs. 
Abner  Grant.  Sherman,  111. 

CHICKEN  LIVER  SALAD.— Use  6  cooked  chicken  livers,  or 
an  equal  quantity  of  cooked  calf's  liver.  Cut  into  dice  and  add  4 
hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  3  small  onions,  chopped. 
Mix  with  French  dressing,  and  serve  on  lettuce. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Ben- 
nett, Bartlett,  111. 

CHICKEN  AND  OYSTER  SALAD.— Clean,  parboil,  and 
drain  1  pt.  of  oysters.  Remove  tough  muscles,  and  mix  soft  parts 
with  an  equal   quantity  of  cold  boiled   fowl,   cut   in   j4-inch   dice. 


452  CHEESE,   MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

Moisten  with  any  salad  dressing,  and  serve   on  a  bed   of  lettuce 
leaves.— Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennett,  Bartlett,  111. 

CLAM  AND  CELERY  SALAD.— Remove  skins  and  black- 
heads from  cold  cooked  clams.  Cut  clams  into  small  pieces,  sea- 
son with  onion  juice,  mix  with  shredded  lettuce  or  celery,  and  serve 
on  lettuce  with  French  dressing  or  mayonnaise.  Either  cooked  or 
raw  clams  may  be  used. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

CLAM  AND  GRAPEFRUIT  SALAD.— Trim  cooked  clams, 
season  with  salt,  paprika,  lemon  juice  and  chill.  Mix  with  grape- 
fruit pulp  in  pieces  of  equal  size,  removing  the  skin  and  seeds. 
Pour  over  a  French  dressing,  made  with  lemon  juice,  and  serve  in 
the  grapefruit  shells,  lined  with  lettuce. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn.  Wil- 
mette.  111. 

CLUB  SALAD.—Chop  fine  2  boiled  potatoes.  2  artichoke  bot- 
toms. 12  mushrooms  and  2  truflFles.  Add  1  stalk  of  celery,  cut  fin^e. 
12  shrimps,  a  cup  of  cooked  asparagus  tips,  a  pinch  each  of  minced 
chervil  and  parsley,  and  3  red  Spanish  peppers.  Cooked  ovsters. 
^^liced  olive«;.  and  fillets  of  anchovies  may  be  added.  Marinate  in 
French  dressing,  and  serve  very  cold,  with  mayonnaise. — ^^Mrs.  D. 
C.  Daniel'=.  Arlington  Heights,  111. 

COMBINATION  SALAD.— Shred  very  fine  1  small,  firm  head 
of  white  cabbage:  cut  4  tart  apples  in  dice-shaped  pieces:  6  cold, 
firm  cooked  potatoes  cut  the  same:  ^  cup  of  English  walnuts  cut 
in  small  pieces;  1  teasooon  of  finely  chopped  white  onion.  Toss 
well  together  with  2  silver  or  wooden  forks  (steel  will  cause  the 
aDples  to  turn  dark")  and  pour  over  this  some  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Place  the  salad  on  ice  about  1  hr.  before  using.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley.  Winnetka.  111. 

A  COOKING  SCHOOL  SALAD.— Shred  and  soak  a  cabbage. 
Peel  a  tomato,  cut  it  into  halves  and  press  out  the  seeds,  then  chon 
it  fine.  Remove  the  seeds  from  a  pepper  and  cut  it  into  fine  shrrd^. 
At  serving  time,  drain  and  dry  the  cabbage.  Pare  and  slice  1  tart 
aople.  Put  a  layer  of  the  cabbage  in  the  bottom  of  the  salad  bowl, 
then  a  little  apple,  a  sprinkling  of  tomato,  pepper.  1  tablespoon  of 
chopped  onion,  then  another  layer  of  cabbage,  and  continue.  Baste 
carefullv  with  the  dressing:,  and  mix  thoroughly. — ^Mrs.  D  C.  Dan- 
iels, Arlington  Heights,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  453 

CORN  SALAD. — Mix  any  cold  cooked  corn  with  salad  dress- 
ing, add  any  cold  vegetables,  meat,  fish  or  fowl  to  suit  taste;  gar- 
nish with  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs;  serve  on  lettuce. — Mrs.  F.  C. 
Winter,  Winnetka,  III. 

VARIATION  I. — Cooked  sweet  corn  cut  from  cob,  and  young, 
tender  shelled  peas,  are  all  available  to  make  up  into  salads,  to  suit 
foods  at  hand  and  as  judgment  and  ideas  select  for  proportions. — 
Mrs.  L.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CRAB  SALAD. — Flake  cooked  crab  meat,  mix  with  salad 
dressing,  and  serve.  For  variety,  mix  with  lemon  juice,  minced 
parsley,  chives,  celery,  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs,  capers,  olives. 
— Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen  View,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Fry  soft-shell  crabs,  and  serve  cold  on  let- 
tuce with  salad  dressing  or  tartar  sauce. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen 
View,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Combine  1  pt.  of  crab  meat,  2  stalks  of  cel- 
ery, cut  fine,  1  hard-boiled  egg,  chopped  fine,  and  1  tomato,  cut  into 
small  pieces;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar;  thoroughly  mix 
and  place  in  a  salad-bowl,  garnishing  it  with  crisp  leaves  of  lettuce; 
dress  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jefifries,  Winnetka,  111. 

CRAB  AND  CELERY  SALAD.— Shred  2  heads  of  lettuce  and 
a  bunch  of  celery  and  put  into  a  bowl.  Mash  the  hard-'boiled  yolks 
of  6  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste  with  oil,  adding  a  teaspoon  of  dry  mus- 
tard. Add  the  yolks  and  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  separately,  and 
thin  the  mixture  with  lemon  juice  and  vinegar.  Mix  thoroughly, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Mix  a  can  of  deviled  crab  meat 
with  the  dressing  and  lay  upon  the  lettuce  and  celery.  Mix  thor- 
oughly in  serving. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Wor;:h,  Wheeling,  111. 

CRAB  AND  TOMATO  SALAD.— Remove  meat  from  hard- 
shelled  crabs;  there  should  be  1  cup.  Add  ^  cup  of  celery,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  and  6  small  tomatoes,  peeled,  chilled,  and  cut  in  quar- 
ters. Moisten  with  mayonnaise.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and 
garnish  with  mayonnaise,  curled  celery,  and  small  pieces  of  to- 
mato.— Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn,  Wilmette,  111. 

CREOLE  SALAD.— Season  a  pt.  of  hot  boiled  rice  with  salt, 
pepper  and  cayenne,  and  add  3  green  peppers,  3  boiled  beets,  and 


454         CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

I     !>    17        I  » 

an  onion,  minced  separately.     Serve  very  cold  with  French  dress- 
ing.—Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

CRESS  SALAD. — Mix  crisp  cress  with  salad  dressing,  add 
choice  of  the  following:  pepper  grass,  chervil,  mustard  leaves,  nas- 
turtium blossoms,  sliced  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  onion,  shredded 
green  pepper,  celery,  shredded  lettuce,  endive,  sour  apples,  grape- 
fruit, lemon  or  orange  pulp.  Garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs. — Mrs, 
L.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Remove  all  bruised  or  wilted  leaves  of  wa- 
ter cress,  and  with  the  fingers  break  them  into  2-inch  lengths.  Lay 
the  cress  in  a  salad  bowl,  chop  1  young  spring  onion  very  fine, 
strew  it  over  the  cress,  add  a  plain  dressing,  and  serve.  If  the 
cress  is  short,  it  need  not  be  broken. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen,  423  9th 
St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

CRESS  AND  CELERY  SALAD.— Crisp  Yt.  bunch  lettuce  in 
cold  water.  Cut  1  large  bunch  of  celery  into  2-inch  lengths  and 
cut  6  or  8  }^-inch  slits  in  both  ends  of  each  strip.  Throw  the  cel- 
ery into  cold  water,  let  it  remain  1  hr.,  or  until  the  edges  curl  up. 
Rub  a  small  salad  bowl  with  a  bit  of  onion,  line  with  cress,  ar- 
range the  celery  in  the  cress-lined  bowl,  garnish  with  bits  of  nuts 
and  chopped  pimento.  Pour  the  French  dressing  over  all  just  be- 
fore serving. — 'Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 

CRESS,  CELERY  AND  WALNUT  SALAD.— Arrange  a 
wreath  of  watercress  upon  a  serving  dish.  Inside  this,  place  some 
fine-cut  celery,  and  in  the  center  pile  some  meats  of  English  wal- 
nuts, sliced  thin.  Garnish  with  sprays  of  curled  celery.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  mix  thoroughly,  and  dress  with  oil;  then  mix 
again,  add  half  as  much  vinegar  as  oil,  mix  once  more  and  serve. — 
Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 

CRESS  AND  DANDELION  SALAD.— The  dandelions  should 
be  fresh  and  young.  Wash  the  leaves  carefully,  and  drain  well. 
Arrange  them  in  a  salad  bowl  with  an  equal  quantity  of  cress.  A 
few  thin  slices  of  onion  will  add  much  to  the  salad,  over  which 
should  be  poured  a  French  dressing, — Mrs.  L.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S. 
3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CRESS  AND  EGG  SALAD.— Dress  a  bunch  of  cress  with  oil, 
vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.     Cut  the  whites   of  2  hard-boiled   eggs 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         455 

into  eighths,  lengthwise,  and  arrange  them  on  the  cress  to  simu- 
late the  petals  of  a  flower.  Press  a  star  of  mayonnaise  dressing  in 
the  center  of  the  petals.  Pass  an  egg  yolk  through  a  sieve  and  ar- 
range around  the  dressing.  Send  to  the  table  in  this  form,  but  toss 
together  when  serving. — Mrs.  Frank  Mullins,  Franklin,  111. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD.— Slice  cucumbers  thin  and  soak  in  cold 
water,  drain  and  dry.  Mix  with  salad  dressing  or  with  thick  sour 
cream,  highly  seasoned  with  black  pepper.  If  the  flavor  of  garlic  is 
desired,  rub  a  salad  bowl  with  cut  garlic,  fill  with  thinly  Sliced  cu- 
cumbers and  sprinkle  with  any  of  the  following  Ingredients,  cover- 
ing with  another  layer  of  cucumbers  and  dressing  on  top:  Minced 
chives,  grated  onions,  lemon  juice,  cress,  celery,  mushrooms, 
chopped  hard-boiled  eggs,  Spanish  onion,  tomatoes,  chopped  olives. 
— Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Soak  1  tablespoon  of  gelatin  in  ^  cup  of 
cold  water.  Add  to  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  1  cucumiber,  chopped 
fine,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  over  the  gelatin  and  cook  un- 
til it  is  dissolved.  Mould  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — 
Mrs.  Frederic  Sharp,  700  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  11. — Select  fresh,  crisp,  green  cucumbers.  Pare, 
throw  them  into  cold  water  for  ^  an  hr.  Cut  into  thin  slices, 
soak  in  fresh,  very  cold  water  for  an  hr.,  drain,  cover  with  French 
dressing,  and  serve  at  once.  Do  not  add  salt  to  the  water,  but,  if 
convenient,  add  a  piece  of  ice.  Cucumbers,  wilted,  are  perhaps 
the  most  indigestible  of  all  vegetables. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Jefferson,  505 
S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

FRENCH  CUCUMBER  SALAD.— Peel  3  cucumbers  and  cut 
into  halves  lengthwise,  taking  out  the  seeds.  Place  in  ice-cold 
water  for  1  hr.  Chop  1  pt.  of  watercress  and  mix  with  3  peeled 
chopped  tomatoes.  Add  ^^  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  /^  to  ^  of  a 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Dry  the  cucum- 
bers in  a  napkin,  fill  them  with  the  mixture  and  lay  on  lettuce 
leaves.  Squeeze  over  the  filling  the  juice  of  1  lemon,- 1  tablespoon 
of  olive  oil,  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Peel  4  cucumbers  and  slice  thin  layers 
lengthwise  until  the  seeds  are  reached.  Place  a  layer  of  cucumber 
slices  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  with  a  layer  of   salt.     Repeat  until   all 


456  CHEESE,   MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

sliced  cucumbers  are  used.  Allow  to  stand  for  several  hours  on 
the  ice.  When  ready  to  use  remove  cucumbers  from  the  liquid, 
spread  on  a  towel  and  wipe  dry.  Place  in  a  bowl  and  add,  alter- 
nately, Yi.  cup  of  sweet  cream  and  ^  cup  of  vinegar.  Serve  on 
head  of  lettuce  or  cress. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 

CUMQUAT  SALAD.— Mix  sliced  cumquats  with  crisp  lettuce 
or  endive  and  serve  with  French  dressing  made  with  lemon  juice 
or  with  mayonnaise  made  without  mustard.  Finely  cut  celery  may 
be  added,  if  desired.  Garnish  with  celery  tips. — Mrs.  Robert  Ran- 
dall, 908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CURRANT  SALAD. — Mix  currants  with  mayonnaise  dressing 
and  serve  on  lettuce  with  game. — Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S.  8th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

DAISY  SALAD.— Cut  the  whites  of  8  hard-boiled  eggs  into 
rings  and  mix  the  yolks  with  1  pt.  of  good  mayonnaise  dressing. 
On  a  platter  arrange  16  lettuce  leaves  in  a  circle  so  that  every  2 
will  be  in  round  or  cup-like  shape.  On  these  cups  arrange  the  ^%^ 
rings  to  simulate  daisy  petals,  and  heap  the  yolks  in  the  center. — ■ 
Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen,  423  9th  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Arrange  upon  platter  in  center  of  leaves  of 
lettuce  5^  of  a  ripe  tomato.  Take  th^  white  of  1  hard-boiled  ^^^ 
and  cut  with  scissors  into  thin  strips  in  the  form  of  daisy  petals 
and  lay  upon  the  tomatoes.  Put  yolks  through  a  potato  ricer  and 
pile  in  centers. — Mrs.  Jas.  M.  Northcott,  807  Forest  Ave.,  Wil- 
mette, 111. 

DANDELION  SALAD. — Select  the  young  green  leaves  of 
dandelions;  wash,  throw  them  into  cold  water;  drain,  dry,  and 
serve  with  French  dressing. — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair.  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Wash  thoroughly  in  3  waters  fresh  white 
dandelion  leaves;  drain,  and  place  in  a  salad-bowl.  Mix  thorough- 
ly a  pinch  of  salt,  54  pinch  of  pepper  and  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar, 
and  add  1  of  oil.  Pour  over  the  salad,  and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D. 
Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

HOT  DANDELION  SALAD.— Wash  fresh  dandelion  in  sev- 
eral waters,  drain,  and  arrange  in  a  salad-bowl;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.     Break  2  slices  of  bacon  and  fry  until  done,  and  add 

\ 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         457 

the  fat  and  all  to  the  salad.  Let  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar  heat,  and 
pour  it  over  the  salad,  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka, 
III. 

DE  JOHN'S  SALAD.— Pare  6  Bartlett  pears,  care  being  taken 
not  to  remove  stems.  Cut  in  thin  slices,  and  serve  in  original 
shapes  on  lettuce  leaves  with  French  dressing. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis, 
Glencoe,  111. 

DEVONSHIRE  SALAD.— Choose  soft,  yet  firm  curd  of  cot- 
tage cheese,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne,  and  serve  on  let- 
tuce with  mayonnaise.  Garnish  with  nasturtiums. — ^Mrs,  W.  H, 
Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

AFTER-DINNER  SALAD.— Pare  and  cut  into  ^-inch  dice 
some  rich,  tart  apples,  and  mix  with  hickory-nut  meats.  Lay  on 
top  of  tossed-up  watercress,  and  serve  with  French  dressing. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  III. 

DOMINION  SALAD. — 1  teaspoon  of  onion,  chopped  fine,  5 
cold  boiled  potatoes,  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped,  and  the  tender 
leaves  of  2  heads  of  lettuce,  leaving  out  enough  of  the  inner  leaves 
to  line  the  salad-bowl.  Pour  over  salad  dressing  and  mix  gently. 
—Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

DUCK  SALAD. — Cut  the  meat  from  a  cold  duck  into  thin 
strips  or  into  cubes,  marinate  with  salt  and  pepper  and  3  portions 
of  oil  to  2  of  sour  orange  juice.  After  standing  some  hours,  drain 
and  mix  with  half  the  quantity  each  of  orange  sections,  freed  from 
seeds  and  mem'brane,  and  bits  of  celery;  garnish  with  mayonnaise 
and  half  slices  of  orange,  from  which  the  peeling  has  not  been  re- 
moved.— Mrs.  Chris.  Worthington,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Take  thin  slices  of  cold  cooked  duck  or 
cut  it  in  dice,  season  with  oil,  lemon  or  orange  juice,  and  mix  with 
celery  or  bits  of  orange,  freed  from  seeds  and  membrane.  Serve 
with  salad  dressing  and  garnish  with  lettuce  leaves  and  orange 
slices.  Diced  carrots  and  beets  and  onion  juice  may  be  added,  if 
desired. — Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

DUMAS  SALAD. — Put  into  a  salad-bowl  1  anchovy  and  an 
equal  quantity  of  tunny.     Mash  to  a  smooth  paste  with  the  yolk  of 


458  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

a  hard-boiled  egg,  a  tablespoon  of  oil,  and  a  little  French  dressing. 
Chop  fine  the  white  of  a  hard-boiled  egg  and  a  small  pickle,  add  a 
few  stalks  of  chervil,  a  little  soy,  and  a  wineglass  full  of  white 
wine  vinegar.  Add  a  few  slices  each  of  boiled  potato,  turnips  and 
beets,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  serve 
very  cold. — ^Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

SALAD  A  LA  DUMAS.— Cut  into  dice  cooked  beets,  pota- 
toes, pickles  and  raw  tomatoes.  Serve  with  French  dressing,  mixed 
with  powdered  egg  yolks  and  seasoned  with  anchovy  essence. 
Serve  on  lettuce,  sprinkled  with  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs,  chervil, 
beets,  chives  and  tarragon. — Mrs.  Joseph  King,  Kenilworth,  111. 

DUTCH  SALAD.— ^  head  of  cab'bage,  shredded,  1  onion, 
chopped  fine,  1  head  of  celery,  J^  lb.  of  extra  fine  bacon,  cut  in 
dice,  about  1  cup  of  vinegar.  Put  the  bacon  in  a  frying-pan,  keep 
shaking  it  over  a  hot  fire  until  brown,  add  vinegar,  let  boil  and 
pour  over  cabbage,  etc.,  and  serve. — Mrs.  Robert  P.  Bruce,  405  S. 
Uth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

EAST  INDIA  SALAD.— Work  2  10-cent  cream  cheeses  until 
smooth.  Moisten  with  milk  and  cream,  using  equal  parts.  Add  J^ 
cup  of  grated  Young  America  cheese,  1  cup  of  whipped  cream, 
and  %  tablespoon  granulated  gelatin  soaked  in  1  tablespoon  of 
cold  water  and  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon  of  boiling  water.  Season 
highly  with  salt  and  paprika,  and  turn  into  a  border  mould.  Chill, 
remove  from  mould,  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  fill  center  with  let- 
tuce leaves,  and  serve  with  curry  dressing. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen,  423 
9th  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

« 

EGG  SALAD. — Take  the  required  num'ber  of  cold,  hard-boiled 
eggs,  slice  thin,  and  lay  on  lettuce  leaves  or  run  the  whites  and 
yolks  separately  through  a  food  press  and  place  a  layer  of  the 
whites  on  the  lettuce  leaves  and  then  a  layer  of  yolks,  and  cover 
with  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,. 
111. 

VARIATION  I.— Eggs  boiled  hard,  take  the  yolks  out  whole 
and  chop  the  white  with  some  lettuce.  Put  the  yolks  through  a 
vegetable  press  and  sprinkle  over  whites  and  lettuce.  Serve  with 
salad  dressing.— Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen,  423  9th  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  459 

EGG  AND  TOMATO  JELLY  SALAD.— Cook  a  pt.  of  toma- 
toes, a  bay  leaf,  a  slice  of  onion,  and  a  stalk  of  celery  15  minutes; 
add  %  package  of  gelatin,  softened  in  %  cup  of  cold  water,  then 
strain.  Chill  4  cups.  Press  Vz  a  cooked  egg,  dipped  in  liquid 
gelatin,  against  the  side  of  each  cup;  when  set,  fill  with  the  jelly. 
Unmold  on  shredded  lettuce,  dressed  with  French  dressing.  Serve 
with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.   C.  J.   Canthorn,  Wilmette,  111. 

EGG-PLANT  SALAD.— Cut  cold  boiled  egg-plant  into  dice 
and  serve  with  crisp  lettuce  and  French  dressing. — 'Chopped  cher- 
vil or  parsley  may  be  sprinkled  over  it. — Mrs.  Frank  Mullins, 
Franklin,  111. 

ENDIVE  AND  EGG  SALAD.— Arrange  a  head  of  well- 
washed  and  dried  endive  on  a  salad  dish  with  the  blanched  leaves 
in  the  center.  Dispose  about  the  blanched  heart  4  hard-boiled 
eggs,  cut  lengthwise  into  quarters.  Mix  ^  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a 
teaspoon  of  paprika  and  6  tablespoons  of  oil.  Stir  in  gradually  3 
tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Pour  over  the  endive  and  egg,  or  use  a 
good  French  dressing.  Pass  together  when  serving. — Mrs.  F.  A. 
Lester,  Essex  Rd.,  Kenilworth,  111. 

FARMERS'  SALAD. — In  spring  and  early  summer,  the  ten- 
der plant  of  dandelions  make  a  most  appetizing  and  wholesome 
salad.  Pick  over  and  wash  carefully,  lay  in  ice-cold  water  4  hrs.  to 
become  crisp.  Break  coarsely  and  serve  with  bacon  dressing. 
Fresh  made  cottage  cheese,  salt,  pepper,  vinegar  and  young  onions 
may  be  added. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Daniels,  Arlington   Heights,  111. 

FETTICUS  SALAD.— Wash  2  cups  of  fetticus  and  dry  leaves 

well,  add  preferred   dressing,   sprinkle   with   1   teaspoon   of  grated 
onion. — Mrs.  Chris.  Worthington,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

FISH  SALAD. — Mix  any  kind  of  cold  fish  with  pickled  gher- 
kins, or  any  other  kind  of  green  pickle.  Garnish  with  slices  of 
lemon  and  some  parsley. — Mrs.  Robert  Appleton,  1128  Center 
Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

WHITE-FISH  SALAD.— Flake  cold  cooked  white-fish,  sea- 
son with  French  dressing,  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise, 
to  which  a  mashed  sardine  has  "been  added.  Garnish  with  sliced 
cucumbers  or  cubes  of  cucumber  aspic.  Finely  cut  cabbage  or 
celery  may  be  added. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen  View,  111. 


460  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

FROGS'  LEGS  SALAD.— Shred  cooked  frogs'  legs  and  mix 
with  shredded  lettuce  or  celery.  Serve  on  watercress  or  lettuce, 
garnishing  with  sliced  lemon  and  hard-boiled  eggs. — Mrs.  Allan 
George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

FRUIT  SALAD. — Mix  together  in  quantities  desired  grape- 
fruit, cut  in  small  pieces,  grapes,  peeled  and  seeded,  and  pineapple, 
diced.  Serve  with  salad  dressing  to  which  an  equal  quantity  of 
whipped  cream  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  has  been  added. — Mrs.  D, 
C.  Everitt,  207  S.  6th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Dice  pineapple  and  tart  apples,  peel  and 
seed  white  grapes  in  quantities  desired,  mix  with  white  cherries, 
and  serve  with  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Everitt,  207  S.  6th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — ^Mix  together  in  quantities  desired,  diced, 
tart  apples,  chopped  celery,  oranges,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  white 
salad  dressing.  Sprinkle  chopped  nuts  over  top. — 'Mrs.  D.  C.  Ever- 
itt, 207  S.  6th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  III. — For  each  individual  salad  1  slice  pin(e- 
apple,  1  slice  orange,  and  candied  cherries  are  necessary.  Ar- 
range upon  each  plate  a  crisp  leaf  of  lettuce,  upon  the  lettuce  a 
slice  of  pineapple,  upon  the  pineapple  a  slice  of  orange,  and  ujion 
the  orange,  halved  candied  cherries.  Serve  either  fruit  salad  dress- 
ing, mayonnaise  or  French  dressing  with  the  salad. — Mrs.  Helen 
Williams,  6032  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  IV.— Slice  fine  3  apples,  2  bananas,  ^  bunch  of 
celery,  Sc  walnuts,  pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Serve  with 
salad  dressing,  whiten  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th 
Ave.,  May»wood,  111. 

VARIATION  V. — Into  each  cup  put  3  canned  or  fresh  straw- 
berries, some  grated  pineapple,  a  teaspoon  each  of  orange  pulp  and 
grapefruit,  a  little  syrup  from  preserved  ginger,  1  tablespoon  of 
lemon  juice,  and  a  little  sugar.  Fill  up  the  cup  with  Maraschino 
cherries.  Set  on  the  ice  until  very  cold.  Eat  from  the  cups. — • 
Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  VI. — Peel  1  pineapple  or  use  the  contents  of  1 
can,  shred  it  in  small  pieces  with  a  silver  fork;  peel  and  slice  thin. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  461 

6  bananas,  and  peel,  tear  into  sections,  and  seed  4  sour  oranges. 
Arrange  in  a  crystal  dish  in  layers,  sprinkling  sugar  between;  then 
squeeze  over  the  whole  1  large  lemon.  Stand  in  ice  'box  3  hrs. 
Serve  with  or  without  fruit  salad  dressing,  to  taste. — Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  VII.— Soak  a  box  of  gelatin  in  2  cups  of  cold 
water  over  night;  add  2  cups  sugar,  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  bring 
to  a  scald;  add  1  can  of  shredded  pineapple,  3  oranges,  6  bananas, 
and  candied  cherries  to  taste.  Serve  in  lemonade  cups  with 
whipped  cream  on  top;  a  salad  dressing  may  be  made  with  th-e 
cherry  juice  to  serve  with  it.  This  makes  4  pts. — Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  5th  Ave,,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  VIII. — Cut  Malaga  grapes  in  halves  and  remove 
seeds;  to  1  lb.  of  grapes  use  2  small  apples,  cut  in  dices,  J4  cup 
of  cut  celery,  2  bananas,  scraped  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  afte!r 
quartering  them,  then  mix  with  salad  dressing  and  serve  on  let- 
tuce.— Mrs.  Florence  Davies,  426  S.  18th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  IX. — Take  the  inside  out  of  a  grapefruit,  notch 
the  edge  of  the  shells  and  fill  with  the  following  sliced  fruit:  1  ba- 
nana, 2  oranges,  Yi.  qt.  of  pineapple,  J^  pt.  of  cherries,  ^  lb.  of 
blanched  almonds,  juice  of  1  lemon,  2  tablespoons  of  powdered 
sugar.  Serve  with  a  dressing  made  of  the  juice  of  the  cherries. — 
Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  X.— If  different  kinds  of  fruits  are  used  cut, 
dice  or  chop,  and  let  stand  together,  as  the  juices  drain  out  the^ 
flavor  of  one  permeates  the  other;  drain  off  the  juices  just  before 
serving.  Always  use  an  equal  part  of  whipped  cream  and  a  little 
bit  of  sugar  with  any  kind  of  salad  dressing  for  a  fruit  salad,  and 
do  not  mix  with  dressing  until  just  ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  D.  C. 
Everitt,  207  S.  6th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

TROPICAL  FRUIT  SALAD.— Peel  and  slice  6  large  oranges; 
peel  and  split  6  large  bananas  into  pieces  ^  inch  thick.  Pare  and 
slice  12  peaches  and  cut  into  halves  and  remove  the  seeds  frora  2 
lbs.  of  large  Malaga  grapes.  Mix  all  these  fruits  together  and 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  to  taste.  Set  on  the  ice  until  thor- 
oughly chilled.    Just  before   serving  beat  the   whites   of  4  eggs, 


462  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

stiff,  with  Yz  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Spread  this  meringue  over 
the  top  of  the  fruit  and  serve. — Mrs.  Wm.  Kies;  Abbotsford  Rd., 
Wilmette,  111. 

GAME  SALAD. — Mix  together  equal  quantities  of  finely 
sliced  celery  and  chopped,  raw,  sour  apples;  serve  dressed  with 
mayonnaise  dressing  as  an  accompaniment  to  game,  or  mix  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  any  kind  of  cold  left-over  game. — Mrs.  Conk- 
lin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

GARDEN  SALAD.— With  the  heart  of  a  head  of  lettuce  mix 
1  handful  of  sorrel,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  chives,  2  sprigs  chervil, 
4  tarragon  leaves  or  tarragon  vinegar.  Serve  with  dressing. — 
Mrs.  D.  C.  Daniels,  Arlington  Heights,  111. 

GOOSE  SALAD. — Mix  diced  cooked  goose  with  shredded 
celery,  bits  of  sour  apple;  season  with  a  bit  of  sage,  if  desired. 
Sliced  potatoes  and  chopped  chives  may  be  added,  if  liked.  Gar- 
nish with  hard-boiled  eggs. — Mrs.  Wm.  Kies,  Abbotsford  Rd.,  Ken- 
ilworth.  111. 

GRANADA  SALAD.— Wash  and  drain  heads  of  chicory,  and 
arrange  in  a  mound  in  the  middle  of  a  dish.  Peel  rather  large 
tomatoes,  divide  in  sections,  and  place  them  around  the  chicory. 
Cut  cold  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves,  scoop  out  the  yolks,  be  care- 
ful not  to  break  the  whites,  and  put  them  in  the  mortar  and  pound 
to  a  paste.  Fill  the  whites  with  the  paste  and  arrange  them  around 
the  tomatoes.  Season  the  -mixture  with  salt  and  pepper;  pour 
over  the  salad  some  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  at  once. — Mrs. 
C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

GRAPE  SALAD. — ^^Remove  the  stem,  wash  and  take  out  the 
seeds  of  large  white  or  light  green  grapes  with  tender  skin,  tak- 
ing care  to  preserve  the  shape  of  the  grape.  Fill  the  grapes  with 
any  nuts — pecan,  hickory,  etc.  Let  cool,  arrange  on  plates  and 
spread  over  a  generous  amount  of  mayonnaise.  Serve  at  once. — 
Mrs.  Robert  S.  Appleton,  1128  Centre  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

HALIBUT  SALAD.— Flake  or  chop  cold  halibut  and  lay  on 
lettuce  leaves;  cover  with  sardines.  Pour  over  a  salad  dressing 
and  garnish  with  sliced  cucumbers  or  cucumber  shells  filled  with 
mayonnaise,  hard-boiled  eggs  or  cubes  of  aspic  jelly  and  bits  oi 
boiled  lobster. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen  View,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  463 

HAM  OR  TONGUE  SALAD.— Arrange  thin  slices  of  ham 
upon  a  platter  with  a  bed  of  lettuce  under  it.  Cover  with  slices 
of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Boiled  tongue  can  be  used  in  the  same  way. 
—Mrs.  C.  J.  JeflFries,Winnetka,  111. 

BELGIAN  HARE  SALAD.— Clean  and  singe,  the  hare,  cut  it 
into  3  pieces,  put  them  into  a  kettle;  add  slices  of  onion,  a  bay 
leaf,  and  cover  with  boiling  water;  boil  rapidly  for  5  minutes,  then 
simmer  gently  for  Ij^  hrs.  Cool  and  remove  the  meat,  cube  it 
and  mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  diced  celery;  add  nuts,  if  liked, 
and  serve  on  lettuce  with  dressing. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Bennett,  Bartlett, 
111. 

HARVARD  SALAD. — Make  lemon  baskets  by  cutting  pieces 
from  each  lemon,  leaving  what  remains  in  shape  of  basket  witih 
handle,  remove  pulp  from  baskets  and  pieces,  and  keep  baskets  in 
ice  box  until  ready  to  fill.  With  a  small  wooden  skewer  make  an 
incision  in  center  of  each  handle  and  insert  a  small  sprig  of 
parsley.  Fill  baskets  with  equal  parts  of  cold  cooked  sweetbread 
and  cucumber,  cut  into  small  cubes,  and  %  the  quantity  of  finely 
cut  celery,  moistened  with  cream  dressing.  Pare  round  red  rad- 
ishes as  thinly  as  possible,  and  finely  chop  parings.  Smooth  top 
of  baskets  with  chopped  parings,  the  remaining  half  with  finely 
chopped  parsley.  Arrange  red  and  green  baskets  alternately  on 
serving  dish,  and  garnish  with  watercress. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis, 
Glencoe,  111. 

HERRING  SALAD.— Take  6  pickled  herrings,  remove  skin 
and  bones,  add  6  stalks  of  crisp  celery,  6  apples.  3  hard-boiled  eggs, 
meat  of  54  lb.  English  walnuts;  chop  these  ingredients  and  add,- 
paprika,  capers,  and  last  sufficient  mayonnaise  to  make  proper 
consistency. — Mrs.  N,  Williams,  4548  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Soak  over  night  6  milch  herrings.  Remove 
the  skin  and  bones  and  rub  the  milch  through  a  sieve,  moistening" 
with  vinegar.  Chop  fine  5^  I'b.  of  cold  roast  veal,  2  cups  of  peeled 
and  sliced  sour  apples,  Ij^  cups  of  pickled  beets.  54  cup  of  onions, 
Yz  cup  of  pickles;  add  2  stalks  of  celery,  chopped,  Yz  cup  of  boiled 
potatoes,  and  1  cup  of  almonds.  Add  the  milch,  2  tablespoons 
each  of  grated  horseradish  and  parsley,  and  1  cup  •each  of  sugar 
and  vinegar.     Mix  thoroughly  and  garnish  with  sardines,  pickles, 


464  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,   ETC. 

hard-boiled  eggs,  beets,  olives  and  parsley. — Mrs.  A.   C.  Christy, 
Glen  View,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— 8  herrings,  1^  lb.  veal,  54  of  a  pickled 
tongue  (beef),  6  apples,  6  potatoes,  5  onions,  pepper  and  vinegar, 
mixed.  Chop  everything  separately. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeflfries,  Winnet- 
ka.  111. 

VARIATION  III.— Soak  4  herrings  in  cold  water  24  hrs.  Re- 
move the  skin  and  bone  and  chop  fine;  add  1  chopped  onion.  3-' 
large,  chopped  apples,  vinegar  to  suit  taste,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  1 
teaspoon  creim,  and  chopped  pickles  or  beets. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  M. 
5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

HINDOO  SALAD. — Arrange  4  slices  of  tomato  on  a  bed  of 
shredded  lettuce.  On  2  of  the  slices  pile  shaved  celery,  on  the 
opposite  slices,  finely  cut  watercress.  Garnish  with  small  pieces 
of  tomato  shaped  with  circular  cutter,  and  serve  with  Erencih 
dressing. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

HUNGARIAN  SALAD.— Mix  equal  parts  shredded  fresh 
pineapple,  bananas,  cut  in  pieces,  and  sections  of  tangerines,  and 
marinate  with  French  dressing.  Fill  banana  skins  with  mixture, 
sprinkle  generously  with  paprika,  and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves. — 
Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe.  111. 

IMPERIAL  SALAD. — Cook  green  asparagus  tips  1  inch  in 
length  in  salted  water;  drain  and  lay  in  a  bowl,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  oil  and  vinegar;  cut  some  cooked  truflfles  1  inch  long  and 
season  same  as  the  asparagus,  y^  hr.  later  lay  them  on  a  sieve  to 
drain  well,  and  then  add  to  the  asparagus  and  mix  with  myon- 
naise. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

ITALIAN  SALAD. — ^Slice  thin  2  peeled,  seedless  oranges, 
cutting  crosswise  with  a  very  sharp  knife.  Arrange  on  head- 
lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  on  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis, 
Glencoe,  111. 

JAPANESE  SALAD.— Mix  1  cup  of  boiled  rice  with  1  grated 
onion,  and  pour  over  while  hot  French  dressing.  Stand  aside  to 
cool.  This  salad  is  never  served  ice  cold.  Garnish  the  dish  with 
the  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Turn  the  rice  in  the  center.  Press  into 
the  rice   1   box  of  sardines,   carefully   drained  from   the   oil;   or  2 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  465 

marine  herrings,  the  backbone  removed  and  the  flesh  of  the  fish 
cut  into  strips.  Baste  the  rice  and  lettuce  with  salad  dressing.  Dusit 
with  chopped  parsley  and  send  at  once  to  the  table.  In  the  spring 
the  Japanese  garnish  this  with  chopped  chives,  in  the  winter  with 
shreds  of  raw  beet.  To  make  these  shreds,  pare  the  beet  and  then 
cut  it  around  and  around  as  you  would  an  apple.  Roll  the  strip 
back  in  the  same  form,  like  a  compact  beet,  shave  it  down  into 
shreds  and  soak  in  ice  water  for  30  minutes;  drain,  shake,  and  put 
them  lightly  over  the  rice. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen,  429  9th  St.,  Wil- 
mette,  III. 

JARDINIERE  SALAD.— Use  diced  cooked  carrots,  okra, 
beets,  cauliflower,  turnips,  peas,  potatoes,  beans  and  asparagus  tips, 
any  or  all,  with  lettuce  or  cress.  Sprinkle  with  minced  fine  herbs, 
if  desired,  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  French  dressing  or  mayon- 
naise.— Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

JUNO  SALAD. — Cream  1  Neufchatel  cheese,  ^  cup  chopped 
walnuts  and  1  pimento,  and  form  into  small  balls,  place  on  beds  of 
cress,  and  cover  with  ^  cup  of  French  dressing. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Win- 
ter, Winnetka,  111. 

LAMB  SALAD. — Mix  diced  or  chopped  cold  lamb,  and  add  to 
chopped  capers,  a  little  mint,  potatoes,  chopped,  boiled  beef  and 
capers  or  pickles,  and  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  C.  E.  JeflFerson.  505  S. 
5th  Ave.,  May-wood,  111. 

VARIATION  L — Steep  a  bunch  of  mint  in  a  cup  ^of  water 
and  strain  over  a  tablespoon  of  soaked  gelatin.  Keep  warm  over 
boiling  water  until  dissolved,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice!, 
and  salt  and  cayenne  to  season.  Put  into  a  mould  with  alternate 
layers  of  cold  cooked  lamb,  sliced;  cool,  turn  out.  and  serve  with 
mayonnaise.  Or,  mix  diced  cooked  lamb  and  potatoes  with  may- 
onnaise, and  garnish  with  the  mint  jelly,  cut  into  cubes. — Mrsl. 
Clark  Mason,  Bensen,  111. 

LAMB  AND  GREEN  PEA  SALAD.— Break,  wash  and  drain 
lettuce  leaves  and  put  them  into  a  salad  bowl.  Chop  some  cold 
remains  of  roast  lamb  or  other  cold  meat,  spread  it  over  the  top 
of  the  lettuce,  and  pour  on  top  a  cup  of  cooked  cold  peas.  Make 
a  plain  salad  dressing  with  oil,  vinegar,  and  season   with  pepper 


466         CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS  &  RICE,  ETC. 

and  salt.     Pour  the  dressing  over  the  salad,  and  serve. — Mrs.  VVm. 
S.  Kies,  Abbotsford  Rd.,  Kenilworth,  111. 

LAMB'S  QUARTER  SALAD.— Wash  and  dry  the  leaves  of 
fresh  lamb's  quarter,  line  the  salad  bowl  and  cover  with  any  left- 
over vegetable,  meat,  fowl,  or  fish  desired.  Add  salad  dressing, 
cover  with  another  layer  of  lamb's  quarter,  garnish  with  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  nasturtium  leaves.  Serve  with  salad  dressing. — 
Mabel  Sturtevant.  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

LENTEN  SALAD.— 1  cup  of  apples,  crisp  and  cold.  1  cup  of 
celery,  crisp  and  white,  1  cup  of  Malaga  grapes,  1  cup  of  pecan 
meats,  J^  cup  of  sliced  bananas;  cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing; 
prepare  the  last  thing  before  serving,  as  the  fruit  discolors  by 
standing. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Cut  2  pts.  of  celery  in  J^-inch  pieces,  split- 
ting each  piece  lengthwise;  cut  1  pt.  of  tart  apples  in  small  cubes: 
sprinkle  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper;  dissolve  1  spoon  of  sugar  in 
2  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley.  Add 
this  to  the  apple  and  celery;  toss  up  with  mayonnaise.  Add  1 
small  tablespoon  of  Parmesan  cheese.  Serve  on  lettuce. — Mrs.  E. 
D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Line  the  bottom  of  the  salad  dish  with 
crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Fill  the  center  of  the  dish  with  cold  boiled 
or  baked  fish,  cut  into  pieces,  and  pour  over  it  a  pt.  of  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Garnish  with  rings  of  hard-boiled  eggs. — Mrs.  D.  C. 
Daniels,  Arlington  Heights,  111. 

LETTUCE  AND  ONION  SALAD.— Place  a  lettuce  leaf  on 
each  salad  plate.  Slice  2  small  Spanish  onions  very  thin  and  place 
upon  the  lettuce.  Pour  %  cup  of  French  dressing  over  the  salad. 
when  ready  to  serve.  Serve  with  celery  cheese  stick, — Mrs.  F.  C. 
Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 

LETTUCE  AND  RADISH  SALAD.— Place  between  leaves 
of  curly  headed  lettuce  6  radishes  which  have  been  washed,  scraped, 
and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Garnish  with  round  radishes  cut  to  repre- 
sent tulips.  Serve  with  French  dressing. — Mrs.  John  Ward,  6639 
Union  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  467 

r'      > 

LETTUCE  AND  VEAL  SALAD.— Cut  H  lb.  cold  boiled  veal 
into  strips  1  inch  long,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  shred  a  head 
of  lettuce  and  chop  2  boiled  eggs,  not  too  fine,  and  mix  together 
with  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

LETTUCE  SALAD.— Mix  2  heads  of  lettuce,  ^  cup  of  vine- 
gar, salt  and  pepper,  and  chopped  white  of  an  egg  together  in  a 
bowl,  and  sprinkle  minced  yolk  on  top.  Serve  at  once.  A  vin- 
grette  dressing  makes  a  nice  accompaniment  to  head  lettuce. — > 
Mrs.  H.  C.  Waack,  5435  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

LIVER  SALAD. — Dice  or  chop  cold  cooked  liver  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  finely  cut  celery  and  shredded  cabbage.  Mix 
with  salad  dressing,  and  garnish  with  olives. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wich- 
mann,  5069  N.  Lincoln  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

LOBSTER  SALAD.— Drain  thoroughly  1  can  of  lobster,  and 
remove  every  particle  of  shell,  break  the  meat  apart  with  a  silver 
fork,  but  not  too  fine,  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  wash  care- 
fully a  large  head  of  lettuce,  wring  a  muslin  cloth  out  of  cold 
water,  and  lay  the  leaves  in  this.  Keep  in  a  cold  place  till  ready 
to  serve;  put  a  layer  of  them  in  a  salad  dish,  then  a  layer  of  the 
lobster,  a  little  of  the  hard-boiled  egg,  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over 
the  salad  dressing,  then  another  layer  of  lettuce,  lobster,  etc.,  till 
all  is  used,  pouring  dressing  over  the  top.  Do  not  stir.  It  must 
not*  be  prepared  until  ready  to  serve. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka, 
111. 

VARIATION  I.— Pick  the  meat  from  the  body  of  a  lobster, 
take  out  the  tail  part  in  one  piece,  and  cut  it,  with  the  contents  of 
the  claws,  into  J^-inch  slices.  Chop  the  whites  of  2  hard-boiled 
eggs  small,  and  rub  the  yolks  through  a  hair  sieve.  Do  the  same 
with  the  spawn  or  coral  of  the  lobster,  but  mix  the  soft  part  and 
any  bits  with  the  sauce.  Pour  the  saupe  into  the  bowl,  put  in  a 
layer  of  shredded  lettuce,  and  place  the  slices  of  lobster,  with 
quartered  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  interspersed  with  sliced  beet  and 
cucumber,  on  the  top.  Repeat  in  the  same  manner  until  the  bowl 
is  full,  sprinkling  the  egg  and  coral  over  and  between  the  layers. 
Before  serving,  pour  some  mayonnaise  sauce  over  the  top.  Crab 
can  be  used  in  the  same  manner. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka^ 
111. 


468  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC. 

VARIATION  II.— Cut  the  lobster  into  dice  and  season  with 
2  tablespoons  each  of  vinegar,  and  oil,  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  little 
pepper,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hr.  Line  the  salad 
bowl  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Mix  the  lobster  thoroughly  with 
mayonnaise,  and  place  it  on  the  lettuce.  Serve  with  toasted  cradc- 
ers  and  cheese. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

MACARONI  SALAD. — Break  into  inch  pieces  1  lb.  of  maca- 
roni, and  put  into  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  for  20  minutes. 
Strain  through  a  colander  and  immerse  in  cold  water  to  insure 
against  becoming  pasty.  Boil  until  hard  6  eggs,  chop  up  the 
yolks  finely,  saving  the  whites  for  garnish.  Cut  into  tiny  cubes  }^ 
cup  of  cheese,  and  1  large  green  pepper,  mix  all  together  with 
macaroni,  and  turn  upon  a  bed  of  lettuce.  Over  the  whole  pour  1 
pt.  of  slightly  salted  whipped  cream,  with  a  light  sprinkling  of 
grated  cheese,  and  serve. — 'Mrs.  C.  Carson,  205  S.  5th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

MACEDOINE  SALAD.— Cut  fine  an  equal  quantity  of  cold 
cooked  vegetables — peas,  turnips,  beets,  beans  and  potatoes.  Add 
a  little  minced  onion,  cover  with  salad  dressing,  mix  lightly,  and 
serve  cold. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

MACKEREL  SALAD. — Drain  and  rinse  a  can  of  mackerel, 
removing  skin  and  bone.  Mix  with  chopped  raw  onion  and  pickles, 
and  serve  with  French  dressing,  using  the  oil  drained  from  the  .can. 
—Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen  View,  111. 

MALAGA  SALAD. — Remove  skins  and  seeds  from  white 
grapes;  add  an  equal  quantity  of  English  walnuts,  blanched  and 
broken  in  pieces.  Marinate  with  French  dressing.  Serve  on  let- 
tuce leaves  and  garnish  with  Maraschino  cherries. — Mrs.  W.  H.- 
Willis, Glencoe,  111. 

MARGUERITE  SALAD.— Cut  the  whites  of  6  hard-boiled 
eggs  in  rings  and  put  the  yolks  through  a  strainer  and  moisten 
with  a  little  dressing.  Arrange  the  whites  on  lettuce  leaves  and 
drop  the  yellow  in  the  center. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

MARSHMALLOW  SALAD.— Cut  1  can  of  pineapple  and  J^ 
pound  of  marshmallows  into  cubes  and  mix  with  1  cup  of  pecan 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  469 

meats.  Pour  over  a  salad  dressing-  made  with  lemon  juice  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  brown  bread  sandwiches. — Mrs,  A.  R. 
Thornton,  306  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

MEAT  SALAD. — Chicken,  turkey,  ham,  veal — in  fact,  any 
boiled  meat  can  be  made  up  into  salads.  Trim  and  cut  up  in  small 
pieces,  add  lobster  and  celery,  or  cabbage,  or  cucumbers,  also  cut 
in  small  pieces;  mix  with  any  preferred  dressing,  and  garnish  with 
lettuce,  pickles  and  hard-boiled  eggs. — *Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Bensen, 
111. 

MEAT  AND  POTATO  SALAD.— Arrange  in  alternate  layers 
sliced  and  diced  meat  and  potatoes,  season  each  layer  with  minced' 
parsley,  onion,  and  celery  or  celery  seed.  Pour  salad  dressing 
over,  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Jefferson,  505  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

MEXICAN  JELLY. — Peel  4  large  cucumbers  and  cut  in  thin 
slices.  Put  in  saucepan  with  1  cup  cold  water,  bring  to  boiling 
point,  and  cook  slowly  until  soft;  then  force  through  a  puree 
strainer.  Add  2^^  tablespoons  granulated  gelatin,  dissolved  in  54 
cup  boiling  water,  a  few  drops  onion  juice,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 
a  few  grains  cayenne,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Color  with  leaf 
green,  strain  through  cheesecloth,  and  mould.  After  removing 
from  mould,  fill  space  with  tomato  mayonnaise.  Garnish  sides  of 
mould  with  thin  slices  of  cucumber  shaped  with  a  small  round 
fluted  cutter,  and  on  the  center  of  each  slice  place  a  circular  piece 
of  truffle.  Garnish  around  base  of  mould  with  small  tomatoes, 
peeled,  chilled,  and  cut  in  halves  crosswise.  On  each  slice  of  to- 
mato place  a  circular  fluted  slice  of  cucumber,  and  over  all  a  cir- 
cular piece  of  truffle.  Mayonnaise  colored  red  with  tomato  puree. 
—Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

MIXED  SALAD. — Dress  1  qt.  of  shelled  shrimps  with  mayon- 
naise and  prepare  Vt.  doz.  boiled  potatoes  as  for  salad,  also  with 
mayonnaise.  Heap  the  shrimps  in  a  pyramid  in  the  center  of  a 
platter  and  surround  them  with  the  4  or  5  raw  potatoes,  and  finish 
with  a  border  of  4  or  5  raw  tomatoes.-4-Mrs.  D.  C.  Daniels,  Arling- 
ton Heights,  111. 

SPECIAL  MIXED  SALAD.— 1   cnp  each  of  chopped  cucum- 
ber, tomato,  y-2.  of  apples,  y/2  of  thinly  sliced  radishes,  2  tablespoons 


470  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC. 

of  German  pearl  pickled  onions;  mix  with  1  cup  mayonnaise,  and 
serve  in  bowl  with  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Daniels,  Arlington 
Heights,  111. 

MONTE  CARLO  SALAD.— Remove  pulp  from  4  large  grape- 
fruit, and  drain.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of  finely  cut  celery,  and 
apple.  Moisten  with  mayonnaise,  pile  on  a  shallow  salad  dish,  ar- 
range around  a  border  of  lettuce  leaves,  and  mask  with  mayon- 
naise. Outline,  using  green  mayonnaise  4  oblongs  to  represent 
playing  cards,  and  denote  spots  on  cards  by  canned  pimentos  or 
truffles ;  pimentos  cut  in  shapes  of  hearts  and  diamonds,  truffies 
cut  in  shapes  of  spades  and  clubs.  Garnish  with  cold  cooked  car- 
rot and  turnip,  shaped  with  a  small  round  cutter  to  suggest  gold 
and  silver  coin. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

MUSTARD  LEAF  SALAD.— Take  tender,  young  mustard 
leaves,  wash,  clean,  and  crisp  in  cold  water.  Drain  dry,  and  serve 
with  salad  dressing;  shredded  lettuce,  cress,  endive,  capers,  olives 
or  chives  may  be  added,  if  desired. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dear- 
born St.,  Chicago,  111. 

MUTTON  SALAD.— Mix  dice  of  cold  boiled  or  roasted  mut- 
ton with  mayonnaise  dressing;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  or  with* 
cress,  and  garnish  with  capers.  Many  prefer  the  English  dressing, 
as  it  is  flavored  with  mint,  which  is  always  acceptable  with  mut- 
ton.— Mrs.  F.  A.  Lester,  Essex  Rd.,  Kenilworth,  111. 

NARRAGANSETT  SALAD.— Arrange  the  cleaned,  fine,  white 
center  of  chicory  or  endive,  with  peeled,  quartered  tomatoes,  and 
serve  with  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  5^  teaspoon  onion,  and  1 
finely  chopped  egg  added  to  French  dressing. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis, 
Glencoe,  111. 

NASTURTIUM  SALAD.— Use  the  pods,  leaves,  flowers,  or 
petals  alone,  or  in  combination  in  the  proportions  desired,  and 
serve  with  salad  dressing. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

NEUFCHATEL  SALAD.— Mash  1  Neufchatel  cheese  and 
moisten  with  milk  or  cream.  Shape  into  forms  the  size  of  robins' 
eggs.  Sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley,  which  has  been  dried. 
Arrange  in  nests  of  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with  radishes.   Serve 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  471 

with  French  dressing. — Mrs.  h.  C.  Crawford,  1003  S.  3rd  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

NILE  SALAD. — Ij^  cups  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken  cut  in 
cubes.  Put  1/2  cup  English  walnut  in  pan,  sprinkle  sparingly  with 
salt,  and  add  %  tablespoon  butter.  Cook  in  slow  oven  until 
browned  and  thoroughly  heated,  stirring  occasionally;  remove  from 
oven  and  break  in  pieces.  Mix  chicken  and  nuts  and  marinate 
with  French  dressing.  Add  ^  cup  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Arrange  on  a  bed  of  lettuce,  and  mask  with  the  following:  Green 
or  Ravigote  mayonnaise.  Mix  2  tablespoons  cooked  spinach,  1 
tablespoon  capers,  and  J/^  cup  shallot,  finely  chopped,  3  anchovies, 
^2  cup  parsley,  and  ^  cup  of  watercress.  Pound  in  a  mortar  until 
thoroughly  macerated,  then  force  it  through  a  very  fine  strainer. 
Add  to  desired-  quantity  of  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wil- 
lis, Glencoe,  111. 

SALAD  1907. — Wash  2  good-sized  bunches  of  watercress,  and 
pick  from  the  stems.  Stone  1  lb.  of  Malaga  grapes,  add  to  the 
cress,  with  1  cup  of  chopped  pimolas  (or  stuffed  olives)  and  the 
same  of  chopped  celery.  Pour  over  all  a  French  dressing,  and 
serve  on  Romaine  leaves. — Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

A  NOVEL  SALAD. — A  delicious  and  dainty  salad  is  made  by 
laying  a  slice  of  canned  Hawaiian  pineapple  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Heat 
a  knife  and  spread  cream  or  Neufchatel  cheese  over  the  pineapple, 
arrange  pointed  strips  of  pimento  like  the  petals  of  a  poinsetta 
over  the  cheese;  heap  mayonnaise  in  the  center  and  put  a  stuffed 
olive  on  top. — Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

NUT  SALAD. — 1  head  celery,  1  cup  walnuts,  6  or  7  large  ap- 
ples, mayonnaise  dressing.  Chop  celery,  nuts  and  apples.  Add 
mayonnaise  mixed  with  whipped  cream.  Apples  will  discolor  if 
cut  long  before  using.— Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen,  423  9th  St.,  Wilmette,  III 

VARIATION  I. — Equal  parts  of  apple,  celery  and  nuts.  Cut 
the  apples  in  eighths,  pare  and  cut  from  the  end  in  thin  slices.' 
Split  the  celery  stalks  if  they  are  wide,  and  then  lay  several  to- 
gether and  shave  off  in  thin  crescents.  Use  almonds,  peanuts, 
pecans,  or  walnuts.  Salted  almonds  and  peanuts  may  be  chopped 
medium  fine,  pecans  and  walnuts  crumbled,  or  chopped.  Some  pre- 
fer to  parboil  the  walnuts  and  remove  the  skin;  the  slight  :ookin|j 


472  CHEESE,  MACARONI^  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC. 

softens  them  somewhat.  Use  equal  parts  of  each,  but  almost  any 
proportion  may  be  used.  Mix  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
serve  with  or  without  crisp  lettuce.     Salt  and  pepper  the  mixture 

well  before  adding  the  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  Jas.  M.  Northcott,  

Forest  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Chop  fine  equal  parts  of  celery  and  pecans, 
English  walnuts  or  hickory  nuts,  moisten  with  salad  dressing.  Se- 
lect tomatoes  of  uniform  size,  not  too  ripe,  peel,  scoop  out  thie 
center,  dust  with  salt,  fill  with  the  nut  salad,  put  a  teaspoon  of 
salad  on  top  of  each  one,  and  a  walnut  on  the  top  of  that.  Serve 
on  lettuce,  leaf. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

NUT  AND  CELERY  SALAD.— Cut  2  cups  of  celery  in  line 
shreds  in  water.  Drain  and  dry,  add  ly^  cups  of  hickory-nut  meats, 
broken  fine,  but  not  chopped.  Serve  with  French  dressing  and 
garnish  with  watercress. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

NUT  SALAD.— Break  1  lb.  of  English  walnut  meats  in  halves, 
pour  over  them  boiling  water  and  let  stand  5  minutes.  Remove 
skins,  dry,  and  let  get  cold.  Arrange  the  nuts  on  h»ad  lettuce,  and 
serve  with  either  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing. — Eloise  Jen- 
nings, Winnetka,  111. 

OLIVE  SALAD. — Pound  2  anchovies  or  1  teaspoon  of  anchovy 
paste  and  add  them  to  French  dressing.  Stone  and  chop  24  olives 
rather  fine.  Cut  a  beet  and  boiled  potato  into  dice.  Chop  1  small 
gherkin.  Line  a  salad  bowl  with  the  lettuce  leaves;  sprinkle  over 
the  gherkin  or  cucumber,  then  the  olives,  then  the  beet  and  potato; 
dust  with  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  saltspoon  of  paprika,  a  salt- 
spoon  of  white  pepper.  Chop  2  hard-boiled  eggs  very  fine,  and 
put  them  over  the  top  of  the  salad;  sprinkle  lightly  with  4  table- 
spoons of  sherry,  pour  over  the  French  dressing,  toss  and  serve. — 
Mrs.  Robert  Appleton,  1128  Centre  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

ORANGE  SALAD. — Peel  and  cut  4  oranges  into  small  pieces, 
cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaf.  This  is 
sufficient  for  6  plates.  Served*  with  roast  turkey,  chicken,  etc. — • 
Ellen  Johnson,  6637  Carpenter  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Pare  4  sweet  oranges  and  strip  off  all  the 
white  skin.     Cut  into  small  cubes.     Scald  a  cup  of  English  wal- 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  473 

nuts;  strip  oflF  the  bitter  skin  and  let  them  get  cold.  Skin  and  seed 
5^  a  cup  of  Malaga  grapes.  Mix  all  these  together  and  lay  upon 
lettuce  hearts.  Cover  with  a  good  French  dressing.  Set  on  the 
ice  until  it  is  chilled  through  before  adding  the  dressing.  This,  too, 
should  be  ice  cold  and  added  just  before  serving.  Use  a  "sweet 
dressing"  sugar  to  tase  and  a  glass  of  sherry. — Mrs.  Robert  Ran- 
dall, 908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Divide  an  orange  and  2  tangerines  into 
their  natural  sections,  removing  seeds  and  membranes.  Mix  with 
2  sliced  bananas,  a  shredded  pineapple,  2  dozen  peeled  and  seeded 
Malaga  grapes,  and  2  dozen  broken  English  walnut  meats.  Ar- 
range on  lettuce  and  pour  over  mayonnaise  dressing,  made  without 
mustard,  adding  a  little  whipped  cream,  if  desired.  Serve  ice  cold. 
— Mrs.  John  Ward,  6639  Union  Ave.,  Chicago.  Til. 

VARIATION  III. — Mixed  sliced  oranges  with  salad  dressing, 
made-  without  mustard,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  or  in  orange 
cups,  or  basket,  made  from  cutting  the  orange  in  two  crosswise  and 
removing  the  pulp.  The  cup  filled  with  salad  may  be  set  on  a  let- 
tuce l^af.  Orange  salad  may  be  served  in  banana  skins.  This 
salad  mixture  may  be  combined  in  any  proportion  desired  with  any 
or  all  of  the  following  ingredients:  Sliced  bananas,  broken  English 
walnuts,  pineapple,  seeded  white  grapes.  Maraschino  cherries,  Mal- 
aga grapes,  strawberries,  chopped  pimentos,  finely  cut  celery,  grape- 
fruit, cubes  of  apple  or  currant  jelly.  Serve  with  a  salad  dressing 
made  with  orange  or  lemon  juice,  cider  or  wine,  instead  of  vinegar; 
whiten  the  top  with  whipped  creara. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  IV. — Slice  4  peeled  oranges  lengthwise,  dress 
with  3  or  4  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  and  1  tablespoon  of  lemon 
juice.  Arrange  the  slices  in  a  mound  upon  a  layer  of  lettuce  leaves. 
Dress  1  cup  of  sliced  nut  meats  with  1  tablespoon  of  oil,  dash  of 
salt,  and  ^  a  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  dispose  upon  the  cen- 
ter of  the  mound.  Toss  together  before  serving. — Mrs.  J.  Hi 
Wichmann,  5^69  N.  Lincoln  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ONION  AND  TOMATO  SALAD.— Wipe  and  cut  a  few  ripe 
tomatoes  into  ^-inch  slices;  peel  and  slice  very  thin  a  Spanis»h 
onion.     Arrange  the  sliced  onion  and  tomatoes  in  layers  in  a  salad- 


474         CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC 

bowl  and  pour  over  them  a  plain  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kel- 
ley,  Winnetka,  111. 

OYSTER  SALAD. — Parboil,  drain  and  cool  large  oysters. 
Place  in  a  salad-bowl  lined  with  lettuce  leaves;  add  salad  dressing 
and  any  of  the  following  ingredients  desired:  Finely  cut  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  minced  olives,  parsley  pickles,  capers,  shredded  lettuce, 
shredded  or  cut  celery,  diced  cucumbers,  chopped  canned  mush- 
rooms, chopped  pickles,  chopped  cold  meat  or  fowl.  Cover  with  a 
few  oysters,  a  little  grated  horseradish,  if  liked,  stuffed  olives, 
minced  parsley,  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced,  minced  or  yolks  pow- 
dered and  whites  shredded,  or  oysters  crabs.  Oyster  salad  may 
be  served  on  cress  or  endive  instead  of  lettuce. — Mabel  Sturtevant, 
105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Steam  1  qt.  of  oysters  until  plump,  then 
throw  in  cold  water  and  cut  into  halves.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
mix  with  4  heads  of  celery,  cut  in  pieces.  For  the  dressing:  Beat 
4  eggs  to  a  cream,  add  5^  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard, 
and  1  of  corn  starch,  made  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  then  add  very  slowly  to  prevent  curdling,  1  cup  of 
vinegar,  a  speck  of  cayenne;  cook  over  steam  till  thick,  stirring  all 
the  time;  when  cold  add  5^  cup  of  thick,  sweet  cream. — Eloise  Jen- 
nings, Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Let  1  qt.  of  oysters  come  to  a  boil  in  their 
own  liquor,  plunge  into  cold  water  for  a  moment  to  make  them 
plump  and  white,  skim  out  and  drain  well,  season  them  with  1  table- 
spoon of  salad  oil,  mixed  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  little  salt, 
pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  ^  lemon.  When  cold 
put  in  the  ice  chest  for  1  hr.  or  so.  Set  2  cups  of  celery,  cut  in 
dice  shapes,  in  the  ice  chest  till  time  to  serve.  Then  mix  it  with 
the  oysters,  add  enough  of  the  "mayonnaise  dressing"  to  make  it 
of  the  right  consistency.  Never  stir  the  salad  with  a  spoon,  but 
mix  carefully  with  a  silver  fork. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,   111. 

SALAD. — Remove  seeds  and  slice  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  celery  into 
inch  pieces,  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  large  pieces,  cover 
with  salad  dressing. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111.    ' 

VARIATION  I.— Put  2  heads  of  celery,  cut  into  tiny  pieces, 
into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  tender  cabbage.  Pour  over  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover,  salt,  and  boil  for  5  minutes.    Take  out  and 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  475 

put  the  strained  liquor  from  1  doz,  oysters  into  a  saucepan,  boil 
and  skim,  add  a  little  vinegar  and  salt.  Put  in  the  oysters,  and 
cook  slowly  for  a  few  minutes,  until  done;  take  out  and  turn  them 
into  a  basin  to  cool;  add  a  little  oil  and  serve. — Mabel  Sturtevant, 
105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

PARSNIP  SALAD. — Slice  cold  boiled  parsnips  and  serve  on 
lettuce  with  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing.  Garnish  with  rad- 
ishes or  cress. — ^Mrs.  Abner  Grant,  Sherman,  111. 

PEA  SALAD. — Drain  1  cup  peas,  add  salt  and  pepper,  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  a  good-sized  head  of  lettuce.  Cover  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. — Mrs.  Frederic  Sharp,  700  S.  3rd  Ave,,  Maywood,  111. 

PEAR  SALAD. — Mix  sliced  pears  with  bananas  and  chopped 
nuts  or  candied  ginger.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  a  salad  dressing 
made  with  lemon  juice  instead  of  vinegar  and  without  mustard. — 
Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen,  423  9th  St.,  Wiimette,  111. 

PEPPER  SALAD. — Boil  and  drain  some  peppers,  cut  them 
into  strips  and  place  in  a  bowl.  For  each  pt.  of  peppers  use  a 
French  dressing  made  of  3  spoons  of  oil,  1  vinegar,  y^  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Serve  with  crackers  as  a 
course  or  with  hot  or  cold  meats. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Jefferson,  505  S.  5th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PEPPER  GRASS  SALAD.— Wash  and  dry  the  pepper  grass. 
Line  a  salad-bowl  with  crisp  cress.  Pile  the  pepper  grass  on  this, 
and  serve  with  salad  dressing. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

PHILADELPHIA  CREAM  SALAD.— Cook  and  cool  quickly 
1  good-sized  pair  of  sweetbreads,  pick  apart,  rejecting  all  the  mem- 
brane, sprinkle  with  2  .tablespoons  of  tarragon  vinegar,  and  1  tea- 
spoon of  celery  seed.  Make  a  "capon"  and  put  it  in  a  bottom  of  a 
bowl,  garlic  side  up.  Put  the  sweetbreads  on  top,  cover  the  bowl 
closely  and  stand  aside  over  night.  When  about  ready  to  serve 
the  salad,  skin  and  cut  in  cubes  the  meat  of  a  cold,  boiled,  4-lb.. 
chicken,  and  mix  with  the  sweetbreads,  which  have  been  carefully 
lifted  from  the  garlic.  Sprinkle  with  1  grated  Bermuda  onion,  1 
tablespoon  of  soy,  1  teaspoon  of  tobasco  oil,  and  1  teaspoon  salt. 
Add   Yz   lb.   Jordan   almonds,    chopped   fine,   and   a    tablespoon   of 


476  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC. 

lemon  juice.  Whip  y^  pt.  of  thick  cream  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  and 
at  the  last  moment  fold  it  into  J^  pt.  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  and 
mix  half  of  it  with  the  chicken.  Cover  salad-dish  with  the  crisp 
leaves  of  2  head  lettuce.  Put  chicken  in  the  center  and  cover  the 
top  with  the  remaining  mayonnaise.  Garnish  with  ripe  olives  and 
Yi  cup  of  dry  pinon-nuts.  Reserve  the  "heart"  of  1  head  of  let- 
tuce for  the  center  of  the  dish. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

PIG'S  FEET. — Boil  pickled  pig's  feet  until  tender,  drain,  cool, 
and  pick  the  meat  from  the  bones.  Mix  with  finely  cut  celery  or 
cabbage  or  potatoes,  and  serve  with  French  dressing. — Mrs.  Allan 
George,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

PIMENTO  SALAD. — iMix  shredded  pimentos  with  quartered 
hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced  olives,  pearl  onions,  and  grated  or  sliced 
celery.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  Robert  S.  Ap- 
pleton,  1128  Centre  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Mix  canned  red  pimentos  with  finely  cut 
olives  and  celery.  Season  with  grated  onion,  and  serve  on  lettuce 
with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  Jas.  M.  Northcott,  800  Forest  Ave.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

PIMENTO  AND  PEA  SALAD.— 1  can  of  peas,  Ij^  cups  cel- 
ery, cut  small,  2  good-sized  sweet  pimentos,  shredded  with  shears, 
mix  all  and  pour  over  it  a  good  boiled  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs. 
Robert  P.  Bruce,  405  S.  Uth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

MOCK  PINEAPPLE  SALAD.— Peel,  core,  and  cut  into  thin 
slices  crosswise  4  sound  apples.  Peel  2  oranges,  remove  the  thick 
outside  white  pulp,  slice  a  little  thicker,  crossing,  than  the  apples, 
removing  the  seeds.  Lay  a  slice  of  orange  upon  a  slice  of  apple. 
Place  the  slices  in  a  circle  in  a  glass  dish.  Pour  over  the  juicei 
from  the  fruit.  Sift  white  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  over  it. — > 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

PLANTATION  SALAD.— Peel  and  cut  very  fine  1  large  cu- 
cumber, 1  green  onion,  1  bunch  of  red  raddishes,  and  shred  1  head  of 
lettuce;  mix  all  together  with  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  J4  teaspoon  of 
pepper  and  1  well-beaten  ^ZZ-  Brown  a  tablespoon  of  bacon,  cut 
into  dice,  in  a  pan  over  the  fire,  add  J4  cup  of  cider  vinegar  with  Yz 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  477 

cup  of  water.     Mix  all   together,  and   serve. — Mrs.   E,   D.   Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

POMPADOUR  SALAD.— Marinate  cooked  artichoke  bottoms 
in  French  dressing,  drain,  and  cover  with  macedoine  mixed  with 
mayonnaise.  Serve  on  lettuce,  garnishing  with  truffles. — -Mrs.  W. 
H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

PORK  SALAD. — Shred  cold  roast  pork  and  mix  with  finely 
cut  celery  and  mayonnaise.  A  little  sliced  sour  apple  may  be  add- 
ed. Roast  pork  may  be  added  to  any  chicken  salad,  or  pork  chops 
may  be  boiled  with  chicken  cooked  for  salad. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason, 
Bensen,  III. 

POTATO  SALAD.— Slice,  dice,  or  chop  cold  boiled  potatoes. 
Mix  with  the  desired  dressing  and  combine  with  any  or  all  of  the 
following  mixtures  desired:  Diced,  chopped  or  sliced  boiled  beets, 
chopped  pickles  or  olives,  baked  beans,  chopped  or  sliced  onion, 
cooked  carrots,  finely  cut  celery,  chopped  apple,  finely  cut  red 
or  green  peppers,  shredded  red  or  white  cabbage,  crisp  cucumbers, 
drained  peas,  finely  cut  walnuts,  or  any  kind  of  nut  meats,  chives 
finely  cut  ham,  bacon,  chicken,  fish  or  other  cold  meat,  tomatoes, 
chopped,  cooked  mushrooms,  sliced  radishes,  hard-boiled  eggs, 
diced  or  chopped  turnips  or  carrots,  parboiled  oysters,  cooked 
shrimps,  herring,  sardines,  or  anchovies,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Sea- 
son with'  potato  salad  with  any  of  the  following  ingredients: 
Minced  onion,  parsley,  minced  chives,  chervil,  parsley,  mus- 
tard, sugar,  sage  or  minced  fine  herbs.  If  the  flavor  of 
garlic  is  desired  rub  the  salad-bowl  with  cut  garlic  before 
putting  in  the  salad.  Serve  on  lettuce,  cress  or  endives, 
moistened  with  hot  water,  tarragon,  vinegar,  cider,  red  wine,  claret 
or  beet  vinegar.  Garnish  with  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs  or  beets,  or 
a  sprinkling  of  minced  pickle,  parsley,  fine  herbs,  anchovies,  beets, 
parsley  or  chives. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

VARIATION  I.— Mix  a  pt.  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  sliced, 
with  2  tablespoons  of  pickles  beet,  chopped  fine,  and  1  tablespoon 
each  of  shredded  anchovy  and  smoked  herring.  Season  with 
minced  parsley,  chervil,  chives  and  capers,  and  pour  over  a  Frenich 
dressing  seasoned   with  tomato   and  mushroom   catsup.     Moisten 


478  CHEE5E,  MACARONI,  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC. 

with  ice  water,  if  the  salad  is  too  dry,  and  season  to  taste  with 
pepper.  Serve  ice  cold. — Mr*.  Joseph  Arus,  325  12th  St.,  Wilmette, 
111. 

VARIATION  II.— Use  6  cold  potatoes,  boiled  with  the  skins 
on,  diced,  1  medium-sized  onion,  chopped  fine,  a  tablespoon  of 
chopped  parsley.  Mix  with  salad  dressing.  Serves  4. — Mrs.  Conk- 
lin,  819  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  III.— Boil  6  eggs  until  the  yolks  are  mealy. 
Boil  1  doz.  potatoes  in  the  jackets.  Peel  eggs  and  potatoes,  and 
cut  in  dice,  add  2  sliced  onions.  Put  a  layer  of  eggs,  then  one  of 
potatoes,  until  all  is  used.  Pour  over  it  some  cream  salad  dress- 
ing.— Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  IV.— Cut  in  thin  slices  cold  boiled  potatoes. 
Make  a  dressing  of  equal  parts  of  salad  oil  and  vinegar,  a  small 
teaspoon  of  salt,  a  small  pinch  of  red  pepper,  4  drops  of  onion' 
juice,  chopped  or  shredded  or  grated  onion,  to  taste;  turn  this  over 
the  potatoes,  and  mix  carefully.  Garnish  with  chopped  parsley, 
carrots  or  beets. — Mrs.  S.  J.  Walsh,  4442  Langley  Ave.,  Chicago, 
111. 

VARIATION  v.— Pare  6  large  potatoes,  boil  till  done,  slice 
hot,  add  a  small  white  onion,  cut  into  bits;  cut  breakfast  bacon  into 
small  bits,  1  cup,  fry  it  to  a  light  brown,  remove  meat  and  stir  3 
tablespoons  of  vinegar,  to  make  a  sour  gravy,  add  bacon,  then  com- 
bine all,  and  serve. — Mrs.  John  Hansen,  1408  S.  Sth  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

HOT  POTATO  SALAD.— Chop  fine  cold  potatoes  and  3  on- 
ions, add  2  raw  eggs,  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  %  of  mustard,  and  1  cup  vinegar.  Mix  all  together,  bring 
to  a  boil,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Leslie  V.  Warren,  211  S.  Sth  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Slice  thin  8  boiled  potatoes  while  hot,  peel 
and  cut  up  3  large  onions  into  small  bits  and  mix  with  the  pota- 
toes; cut  up  some  breakfast  bacon  into  small  bits,  sufficient  to  fill 
a  cup,  and  fry  it  a  lig'ht  brown;  remove  the  meat  and  into  the 
grease  stir  3  tablespoons  of  vingar,  making  a  sour  gravy,  which, 
with  the  bacon,  pour  over  the  potatoes  and  onions;  mix  lightly. 


COOR  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  479 

serve  hot.  .Cold  left-over  potatoes  may  be  used  for  this,  either 
pouring  the  hot  gravy  or  dressing  over  or  warming  the  potatoes 
up  in  it. — Mrs.  John  Murray,  1414  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

POTATO  SALAD  WITH  NUTS.— Mix  hickory-nuts  and  par- 
tially cold,  sliced  potatoes,  and  a  trifle  of  chopped  onion.  Pour 
over  them  any  salad,  maygnnaise,  if  preferred,  rich.  Garnish  with 
chopped  parsley,  cold  boiled  beets  and  sliced  lemons. — Mrs.  E.  D. 
Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

POTATO,  ONION  AND  CELERY  SALAD.— Cut  into  54- 
inch  squares  3  boiled  potatoes,  2  heads  of  celery,  cut  fine,  and  1 
onion.  Use  mayonnaise  dressing  to  cover. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley, 
Winnetka,  111. 

PRAWN  SALAD. — Remove  the  skins  and  heads  of  cold  boiled 
prawns  and  serve  with  salad  dressing  made  with  lemon  juice ;^ 
sprinkle  with  minced  parsley,  and  serve  on  lettuce.  Finely  cut 
celery  may  be  added  in  half  proportion  to  the  prawn. — Mrs,  A.  C. 
Christy,  Glen  View,  111. 

QUINCE  SALAD. — Peel  and  slice  ripe  quinces  and  serve  on 
lettuce  with  French  dressing,  seasoning  with  minced  chives,  mar- 
joram, and  mint. — Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

RADISH  SALAD. — Scrape  the  radishes,  cut  into  very  thin 
slices,  and  put  into  a  salad  bowl.  Peel  and  slice  a  fresh  cucumber, 
and  put  in  with  radishes.  Mix  in  equal  quantities  salad  oil  and 
vinegar,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  speck  of  sugar;  pour  the 
mixture  over  the  salad.  Sprinkle  over  chopped  capers,  and  serve. — 
Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

RADISH  AN  CELERY  SALAD.— Cut  1  bunch  of  celery  in  2- 
inch  lengths.  Slash  ^-inch  and  ^-inch  apart  on  each  end.  Throw 
into  ice  water  and  allow  to  stand  2  hrs.  The  cut  ends  will  curl  ilp. 
Wash,  wipe  and  slice  6  tender  radishes  in  thin  circular  slices,  leav- 
ing the  peel  on  for  the  color.  Rub  the  celery  bowl  with  onion  and 
line  the  bowl  with  the  lettuce  leaves,  which  have  been  crisped 
in  ice  water.  Arrange  the  radishes  on  the  lettuce  leaves,  then  add 
a  layer  of  celery;  continue  until  all  are  used.     Pour  %  cup  French 


480  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC. 

dressing,  cover  all,  taking  care  each  portion  is  marinated. — Mrs'. 
J.  S.  Alexander,  1003  Centre  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

ROMAINE  SALAD.— Pick  over  and  let  stand  in  cold  water 
crisp  heads  of  romaine,  then  shake  dry,  add  1  teaspoon  of  grated 
onion  to  each  cup  of  dressing,  French  is  preferred. — Mrs.  W.  H. 
Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

SALMAGUNDI  SALAD. — Arrange  on  a  platter  in  separate 
groups  chopped  veal  or  chicken,  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  sepa- 
rately, sardines,  or  anchovies,  tongue,  pickled  beets  or  red  cabbage, 
chopped  pickles  or  capers,  and  parsley  or  cress.  Garnish  with  let- 
tuce and  serve  with  French  dressing. — Mrs.  Abner  Grant,  Sherman, 
111. 

SALMON  SALAD.— Cut  3  large  cold  boiled  potatoes  fine, 
chop  2  bunches  of  celery.  Mix  with  salad  dressing  and  serve  with 
4  hard-boiled  eggs,  quartered,  and  imbedded  in  the  top. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Shred  or  flake  cold  cooked  or  canned  sal- 
mon, and  mix  with  salad  dressing.  Add  to  this  any  or  all  of  the 
following:  Cold  boiled  potatoes,  diced  or  chopped,  diced  or  sliced 
cucumbers,  celery,  chopped  pickles,  broken  nuts,  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped  olives,  capers,  and  pickle,  small  gherkins,  shredded  red 
or  white  cabbage.  Season  with  lemon  juice,  minced  parsley 
and  cayenne.  Garnish  with  sliced  cucumbers,  sliced  hard-boiled* 
eggs,  olives  and  anchovies. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Pick  the  salmon  to  pieces  and  add  twice  as 
much  celery  as  fish,  and  mix  well.  Serve  with  salad  dressing. — t 
Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen,  423  9th  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

SALMON  AND  CUCUMBER  SALAD.— Lay  a  cooked  sal- 
mon steak  on  bed  of  lettuce  leaves,  and  cover  with  thinly  sliced 
cucumbers.  Garnish  with  nasturtmms  or  cucumbers  aspic,  and 
serve  with,  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing.' — Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth, 
Wheeling,  111. 

,      SARDINE    SALAD. — Mix   sardines    with     hard-boiled    eggs, 
chopped  fine,  add  some  chopped  parsley,  and  lay  over  the  top  some 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  481 

sliced  lemon;  garnish  with  lettuce,  chopped  fine,  and  wet  in  vine- 
gar.— Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  box  of  sardines,  chopped  fine,  the  yolks  of 
2  hard-boiled  eggs,  stirred  with  the  oil  of  the  sardines,  the  whites 
chopped;  juice  of  1  lemon,  slice  lemon  on  top. — Eloise  Jennings, 
Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Skin,  flake,  and  bone  sardines  and  mix  with 
salad  dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Mix  to  taste  with  mashed 
yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  olives,  chopped  pickles,  or 
gherkins,  finely  cut  celery,  diced,  cooked  potatoes,  sprinkled  with 
lemon  juice  or  add  a  salad  dressing  made  with  it,  or  a  sour  mayon- 
naise. Garnish  with  boiled  beets,  olives,  pickles,  chopped,  small 
gherkins  or  hard-boiled  eggs. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

SAVOY  SALAD. — Chop  fine  1  medium-sized  head  of  cabbage, 
mix  with  it  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  celery  and  1  tablespoon  of 
finely  minced  onion.  Whip  1  cup  of  thick,  sour  cream  (that  has 
soured  quickly  and  is  not  too  old),  add  the  juice  of  Yz  lemon,  2 
tablespoons  of  vinegar,  1  scant  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  pap- 
rika, pepper,  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Mix  thoroughly  with  the 
cabbage,  and  add  more  salt,  if  needed,  but  do  not  sprinkle  the  salt 
or  cabbage  before  moistened  with  the  dressing,  as  that  toughens 
it.  Put  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka, 
111. 

SCALLOP  AND  TOMATO  SALAD.— Clean  1  pt.  scallops, 
parboil  and  drain.  Add  juice  of  1  lemon,  cover  and  let  stand  1  hr. 
Drain,  dry  between  towels,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in 
fiour,  egg,  and  stale  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on 
brown  paper.  Cool,  cut  in  halves,  marinate  with  dressing,  and 
serve,  garnished  with  sliced  tomatoes  and  watercress.  Dressing: 
Mix  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  shallot,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  y%  tea- 
spoon paprika,  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  and  4  tablespoons  olive 
oil. — Mrs.   C.   J.   Canthorn,  Wilmette,   111. 

SHADDOCKS. — Shaddocks  are  halved,  the  pulp  scooped  out 
and  the  pith  removed.  The  pulp  is  then  returned  to  the  fruit  and 
a  French  dressing  is  poured  over  it. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen 
View,  111. 


482  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC. 

SHAD  ROE  AND  CUCUMBER  SALAD.— Gently  simmer  a 
shad  roe  with  onion  and  bay  leaf  in  salted  acidulated  water  20  min^ 
utes;  cool,  cut  in  slices  and  cubes  and  marinate  with  French  dress- 
ing made  with  onion  juice;  to  the  cubes  of  roe  add  a  cucumber,  cut 
in  cubes,  and  mayonnaise  to  moisten.  Dispose  the  salad  upon  a 
bed  of  heart  leaves  of  lettuce.  Garnish  the  long  sides  with  sliced 
cucumber,  and  the  top  with  sliced  roe  and  chillies. — Mrs.  C.  E. 
Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

SHRIMP  SALAD.— Wash  and  drain  1  can  of  shrimps  and 
break  into  pieces  not  too  fine.  Reserve  a  few  whole  ones.  Cut 
equal  quantity  of  celery  in  pieces  %  inch  long;  wrap  in  a  piece  of 
muslin  wrung  out  of  cold  water  and  keep  in  cold  place  away  from 
the  air  until  ready  to  serve.  When  ready  to  serve,  mix  carefully 
with  salad  dressing.  Arrange  lettuce  leaves  on  a  platter.  Put  a 
spoon  of  salad  on  each  leaf  and  lay  one  of  the  whole  shrimps  on 
this.     Serve  at  once. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Wash  1  can  shrimps  and  1  can  of  peas  in 
cold  water.  Mix  and  serve  with  one-half  salad  dressing  and  one- 
half  whipped  cream.  The  peas  make  a  good  substitute  for  celery 
when  it  cannot  be  procured. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — ^Mix  well  together  1  qt.  shrimps,  chopped 
fine,  3  hard-boiled  eggs.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — Mrs.  Pitt, 
240  S.  20th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  III. — Break  shrimps  into  pieces,  marinate  with 
French  dressing  1  hr.  At  serving  time  add  equal  quantity  of  cel- 
ery, cut  in  i/^-inch  lengths  or  chilled  cubes  of  cucumbers,  mix  with 
mayonnaise  dressing  and  heap  on  lettuce,  garnish  with  slices  of 
cucumbers,  marinated  with  French  dressing. — Mrs.  Robert  S.  Ap- 
pleton,  1128  Centre  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

SHRIMP  AND  ASPARAGUS  SALAD.— To  1  cup  of  shrimps 
add  2  cups  of  cold  cooked  asparagus  tips,  and  toss  lightly  together. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  dressing  of  the  yolks  of  3 
hard-boiled  eggs,  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and  sufficient  oil  and 
vinegar  to  make  the  consistency  of  cream,  using  twice  as  much  oil 
as  vinegar.  Pour  over  the  asparagus  and  shrimps. — Mrs.  C.  E, 
Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  483 

SHRIMP  AND  CUCUMBER  SALAD.— Break  the  shrimps  in 
pieces  and  marinate  with  French  dressing.  At  serving  time,  add 
an  equal  quantity  of  chilled  cubes  of  cucumber;  mix  with  mayon- 
naise dressing.  Shape  into  a  mound  and  cover  lightly  with  whole 
shrimps  and  the  heart  leaves  of  lettuce.  Surround  with  sliced  cu- 
cumbers, dressed  with  French  dressing,  flavored  with  onion  juice. — 
Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn,  Wilmette,  111.  * 

SORREL  SALAD.— Gather  the  tender  tops  when  they  first 
sprout,  freshen  them  and  drain  thoroughly;  place  them  in  a  salad 
bowl,  and  add  half  the  quantity  of  tender  celery,  broken  into  short 
lengths,  a  very  little  garlic,  and  lastly,  a  French  dressing.  Garlic 
grows  wild  in  many  parts  of  the  country,  and  the  tops  are  very, 
tender  and  delicate. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

SOUTHERN  SALAD.— Mix  2  cups  of  cold  boiled  rice  with  2 
chopped  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  blend  well  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing; serve  on  crisp  lettuce,  garnished  with  sliced  eggs,  beets  and: 
olives. — 'Mrs.  W.  H,  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

SPANISH  SALAD.— Take  the  yolks  from  the  whites  of  3 
hard-boiled  eggs.  Chop  the  whites  fine,  or  put  them  through  a 
vegetable  press;  then  put  through  the  yolks.  Chop  1  onion  very 
fine.  Scrape  the  skin  from  1  box  of  sardines;  cover  them  with 
vinegar,  and  let  stand  for  15  or  20  minutes.  Empty  1  can  of 
shrimps;  wash  and  dry  them,  and  sprinkle  with  3  or  4  tablespoons 
of  vinegar.  Cover  a  round  plate  near  the  edge  with  crisp  lettuce 
leaves,  arrange  on  top  the  sardines,  tails  in;  inside  of  the  sardines 
a  row  or  ring  of  shrimps,  using  all;  inside  of  this  a  row  of  th-e 
white  of  the  egg,  then  one  of  the  yolks,  fill  the  center  with  chopped 
parsley,  chopped  gherkins,  a  tablespoon  of  capers,  and  baste  the 
whole  with  French  dressing,  to  which  1  tablespoon  of  tomato  cat- 
sup is  added.     Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

SQUASH  SALAD. — Young  squashes  smaller  than  an  egg,  and 
boil  in  salted  water  with  a  pinch  of  soda.  Drain,  cool  and  slice, 
and  serve  with  French  dressing,  which  may  be  seasoned  with  sage. 
— Mrs.  May  C.  May,  Mayfair,  111. 

STURGEON  SALAD.— Remove  the  brown  skin  and  f^t  from 
1/2  lb.  of  smoked  sturgeon  and  cut  into  dice.     Add  1  cup  of  diced 


484  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC. 

cucumber  and  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Mix  with 
a  chopped  green  pepper  and  a  very  small  onion,  grated.  Serve 
with  French  dressing  in  a  salad-bowl  rubbed  with  garlic  and  lined 
with  lettuce  leaves.  Use  lemon  juice  in  the  French  dressing  and  a 
slight  grating  of  the  rind. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen  View.  111. 

SUNDAY  NIGHT  SALAD.— Select  perfect  leaves  of  a  large 
head  of  lettuce  and  shake  dr}-,  place  in  salad-bowl,  and  add  1  finely- 
chopped  onion^  5  sliced  tomatoes,  3  or  4  watercress,  sprinkle  salt 
and  pepper  over  surface  and  pour  slowly  about  4  tablespoons  oil 
over,  then  follow  with  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  1 
tablespoon  of  tarragon  vinegar,  sprinkling  with  celery  salt,  add  a 
little  cayenne,  and  mix  all  with  a  wooden  fork  or  spoon,  turning  all 
over  ten  or  more  times. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Daniels,  Arlington  Heights, 
111. 

SALAD  SUPERBA.-^Lay  your  platter  thickly  with  crisp  let- 
tuce leaves,  over  these  sprinkle  lightly  a  layer  of  watercress,  and 
the  same  of  nuts,  next  cut  into  5^-inch  cu'bes  the  choicest  portions 
of  a  ripe  watermelon,  and  arrange  these  closely  on  top,  pouring 
over  all  the  following  dressing:  Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  light, 
add  2  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  little 
pepper,  cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  then  set  aside  to 
-  cool.  When  quite  cold,  stir  in  1  cup  of  whipped  sweet  cream  and  a 
tablespoon  of  chopped  olives. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Daniels,  Arlington 
Heights,  III. 

SURPRISE  SALAD. — Peel  medium-sized  tomatoes  and  empty 
their  contents;  hash  up  very  fine  some  cabbage  or  celery,  add  a 
few  broken  walnut  meats  and  mix  it  with  mayonnaise  dressing; 
add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one  of  red  pepper.  Fill  the  tomato  with 
this  mixture,  and  serve  cold. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

SWEETBREAD  SALAD.— Cut  cold  boiled  sweetbreads  into 
small  dice,  and  place  in  a  salad-bowl;  add  some  chopped  boiled  po- 
tatoes and  a  small  quantity  of  celery,  cut  into  pieces.  Place  in  the 
refrigerator  until  ready  to  serve,  pour  over  boiled  salad  dressing; 
garnish  with  heart  lettuce. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries.  \Vinnetka.  111. 

SWEETBREAD,  CUCUMBER-AND-TOMATO  SALAD.— 
Marinate  a  pair  of  cooked  sweetbreads  with  French  dressing;  chill, 
drain,  and   mix   with   sliced   cucumbers   and   mayonnaise   dressing, 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  485 

whitened  with  whipped  cream.  Arrange  in  a  salad  dish.  Surround 
with  slices  of  chilled  tomato  in  nests  of  lettuce  with  French  dress- 
ing. On  tomato  dispose  slices  of  sweetbread,  capped  with  stars  of 
mayonnaise. — 'Mrs.  C,  E.  Worth,  Wheeling,  111. 

SWEETBREAD  AND  PEAS  SALAD.— Boil  1  pair  of  sweet- 
breads and  cut  up  into  small  pieces.  Mix  thoroughly  with  1  can 
of  peas  and  pour  1  teaspoon  onion  juice  over  them.  Mix  thorough- 
ly with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  cold  upon  lettuce  leaves. — ■ 
Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn,  Wilmette,  111. 

SWISS  SALAD. — Mix  1  cup  cold  cooked  chicken,  cut  in  cubes, 
1  cucumber,  pared  and  cut  in  cubes,  1  cup  chopped  English  walnuts, 
and  1  cup  French  peas.  Marinate  with  French  dressing,  arrange 
on  serving  dish,  and  garnish  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  W. 
H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

SWEDISH  SALAD.— Mix  2  pickled  herrings,  shredded,  2  ap- 
ples, peeled  and  sliced,  2  boiled  potatoes,  cut  into  dice,  an  equaJ 
quantity  of  cold  roast  beef,  and  a  little  sliced  beet,  1  tablespoon 
each  of  capers  and  chopped  pickle,  a  little  minced  tarragon  and! 
chevril,  and  1  hard-boiled  egg,  chopped  fine.  Serve  with  French 
dressing.  Parboiled  oysters,  pickled  shrimps,  anchovies,  Brussels 
sprouts,  olives,  celery  and  green  onions  may  be  added  to  it — any, 
or  all,  as  preferred,  and  any  dried  or  pickled  fish  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  the  herring. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

TOMATO  SALAD.— Chop  fine  1  cup  of  cold  cooked  ham,  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  celery  seed,  and  chopped  onion.  Add  J^ 
a  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  mix  to  a  smooth  paste  with  French 
dressing.  Stuff  tomato  shells,  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayon- 
naise.— Mrs.  Chris.  Worthington,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — ^^Peel  small  tomatoes,  and  cut  out  the  hard, 
pieces  around  the  stem  ends,  to  make  tomato  cups.  Sprinkle  in- 
side lightly  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fill  with  equal  portions  of 
celery  and  walnuts,  cut  in  pieces  and  mixed  with  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  garnish  with  curled  celery. 
Pass  mayonnaise  on  a  separate  dish. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Norris,  1314  For- 
est Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — 1  pt.  of  tomato  juice,  strained  through 
cheesecloth,   2  tablespoons   gelatin,   dissolved   in    ^    cup   water,    1 


486  CH'EESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC. 

onion  grated  into  tomato,  and  let  "boil  up  long  enougli  to  get  flavor, 
1  dessertspoon  sugar,  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Add  gelatin.  Have 
hard-Jboiled  eggs  sliced  around  the  edge  of  a  mould,  and  when  salad 
begins  to  stiffen  put  in  the  mould.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing.—Mrs.  Arthur  Allen,  1029  13th  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

VARIATION  III. — Alternate  layers  sliced  tomatoes  and  choice 
of  any  of  the  following:  Boiled  artichokes,  alligator  pears,  minced 
onions,  boiled  beets,  cold  meat  of  any  kind,  sliced  or  shredded  or 
chopped  cucumbers,  potatoes,  radishes,  cold  cooked  peas,  crisp 
cress,  lettuce  or  endive,  shredded,  Spanish  onions,  green  peppers, 
cut  celery,  fine  cut  leeks,  sliced  olives,  skinned,  boned  and  flaked 
sardines.  Add  salad  dressing,  and  season  or  garnish  with  minced 
chervil,  chives,  tarragon  parsley,  cress,  dandelion,  green  pepper, 
mint,  mashed  anchovy  or  anchovy  paste,  and  hard-boiled  eggs.  If 
flavor  of  garlic  is  desired  rub  the  salad-bowl  with  cut  garlic  before 
putting  the  salad  in. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chi- 
cago, 111. 

VARIATION  IV. — Peel  and  quarter  large  tomatoes  and  serve 
on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise.  Marinate  first  in  French  dressing,  if 
desired.  Tomatoes  may  be  combined  with  cucumbers,  celery,  rad- 
ishes, and  other  vegeta'bles  to  suit  taste. — Mrs.  Arthur  W.  Allen, 
1029  13th  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

VARIATION  V. — Plunge  small  tomatoes  of  similar  size  in  a 
wire  basket,  into  boiling  water.  Remove  at  once,  and  cut  out  a 
circular  piece  around  the  stem  of  each.  Remove  the  skins,  and  set 
aside  on  ice  to  chill.  When  ready  to  serve,  dispose  each  tomato 
on  a  lettuce  leaf,  seasoned  with  French  dressing.  Fill  each  cavity 
with  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  or  boiled  dressing  and  press  into 
the  dressing  quarters  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Before  setting  aside  to 
chill,  tomatoes  are  usually  dusted  inside  with  salt,  to  draw  out  the 
liquid,  but  the  salt  toughens  the  tomato. — Mrs.  John  Ward,  6639 
Union  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

TOMATO  ASPIC  SALAD.— Cook  together  1  can  tomatoes, 
1  stalk  celery,  1  clove,  a  leaf  of  sage,  2  teaspoons  of  sugar  in  1  qt. 
of  water  till  celery  is  done.  Strain  through  a  sieve,  add  a  little  salt 
and  enough  gelatin  to  thicken,  slice  3  large-sized  green  or  red  pep- 
pers.    Mould  or  serve  in  squares.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  487 

salad  dressing.     This  make  1  qt.  and  will  serve  8  or  10. — Mrs.  D.  C. 
'Everitt,  207  S.  6th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cook  a  can  of  tomatoes  for  i/^  an  hr.,  sea- 
soning highly  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  sugar  and  vinegar.  Rub) 
through  a  sieve,  add  soaked  and  dissolved  gelatin  to  thicken,  and 
mould  in  individual  moulds.  Serve  ice  cold  on  lettuce  with  mayon- 
naise. Surround  with  a  border  of  chopped  celery,  if  desired. — Mrs. 
D.  E.  Allen,  421  9th  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

TOMATO  JELLY  SALAD.— Soak  V-^  box  of  gelatin  in  ^2  cup; 
of  cold  water  15  minutes,  or  till  soft.  Stew  one  can  of  tomatoes 
till  soft,  cutting  and  mashing  the  pulp  to  hasten  the  process.  For 
additional  flavoring,  stew  with  the  tomato  J/<-inch  bit  of  bay  leaf, 
^  teaspoon  of  mixed  whole  spices,  1  rounded  tablespoon  of  celery 
salt  and  Y^  a  small  Bermuda  onion.  Strain  the  tomato  through  a 
puree  sieve,  and  if  there  is  not  enough  to  make  3  cups,  add  boiling^ 
water.  Heat  again  to  boiling  point,  add  the  soaked  gelatin,  stir 
till  dissolved,  then  pour  it  into  small  cups  or  fancy  moulds  or  into 
a  ring  mould,  if  individual  forms  are  not  desired.  Chill,  and  when 
ready  to  serve,  turn  out  and  serve  the  small  forms  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  mayonnaise,  and  chopped  or  whole  English  walnuts  on  top, 
or  turn  the  ring  mould  out  on  a  salad-dish,  fill  the  center  with  any 
salad  mixture  you  prefer,  and  garnish  with  any  appropriate  bor- 
der of  green. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Whitney,  1760  Edgewater  PI.,  Chicago, 
111. 

TOMATO  AND  BEET  SALAD.-^Cut  in  ^-inch  squares  4 
cold  boiled  potatoes;  peel  6  large  tomatoes,  without  scalding,  cut 
also  into  squares.  Pour  over  the  whole  Yz  pt.  of  mayonnaise; 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

TOMATO  AND  CAULIFLOWER  SALAD.— Quarter  toma- 
toes, leaving  them  whole  at  the  base,  so  that  the  tomato  will  fall 
apart-  from  the  center  like  a  quartered  orange.  Fill  with  mayon- 
naise dressing  and  place  a  floweret  of  cooked  cauliflower  in  center. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaf.— Mrs.  D.  C.  Everitt,  207  S.  6th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

TOMATO  AND  CUCUAfBER  SALAD.— A  very  pretty  din- 
ner salad  is  made  by  arranging  alternate  layers  of  tomatoes  and 
cucumbers   on   cress.     Baste   with    French   dressing   added   at   the 


488  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC. 

last  moment.  A  garnish  of  round  radishes,  sliced  thin,  quartered  or 
cut  to  resemble  a  tulip  adds  to  this  salad. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Wichmann, 
5069  N.  Lincoln  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

TOMATO  AND  HORSERADISH  SALAD.— Peel  and  chill 
tomatoes,  cut  in  halves,  crosswise,  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  and 
garnish  with  Horseradish  Sauce. — Mrs.  Clark  Mason,  Bensen 
111. 

TOMATO  AND  LETTUCE  SALAD.— Make  a  salad  of  lettuce 
and  slice  3  tomatoes  and  lay  them  on  top.  Cover  the  whole  with 
mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

m 

TOMATO  AND  ONION  SALAD.— Cut  into  thin  slices  6  ripe 
tomatoes;  cut  up  as  fine  as  possible  6  small  onions;  sprinkle  the 
onion  over  the  tomato  slices,  add  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar. — Mrs. 
E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

TOMATO  AND  GREEN  PEPPER  SALAD.— Select  3  firm 
tomatoes,  peel  and  slice.  Remove  the  seeds  from  1  fresh  green  pep- 
per and  slice  the  pod  in  very  thin  strips  with  a  paring  knife.  Rub  a 
small  salad-bowl  with  a  bit  of  onion,  and  line  with  crisp  lettuce 
leaves.  Arrange  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes  upon  a  bunch  of  let- 
tuce and  sprinkle  with  the  sliced  green  peppers,  then  another  layer 
of  the  tomatoes  and  the  remainder  of  the  green  peppers.  Pour 
^  cup  of  French  dressing  over  all. — Mrs.  Robert  S.  Appletoh« 
1128  Centre  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 

STUFFED  TOMATO  SALAD.— Cut  cucumbers  and  tomato 
pulp  into  small  pieces  and  stew  until  tender.  Rub  through  a  sieve, 
season  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar,  and  add  enough 
soaked  and  dissolved  gelatin  to  stiffen.  Pour  into  tomato-shells, 
chill,  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Worth,  Wheeling, 
111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cut  a  slice  from  top  of  a  large  tomato,  scoop 
out  center  with  spoon,  being  careful  not  to  break  skin.  Fill  with  a 
mixture  of  any  of  the  following:  Chicken,  shrimp,  cooked,  sweet- 
breads, cooked,  and  broken  crab,  veal  and  celery,  cooked,  pickled 
tongue,  finely  cut,  cold  lobster,  f^ried  beef  or  any  cold  left- 
over meat.  Fish,  fowl  or  vegetables,  sliced,  quartered,  halved 
or  chopped,   hard-boiled   eggs,   halibut    scallops,     chopped    cress. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  489 

celery,  diced,  cucumbers,  tomato  pulp,  cooked  peas,  cucumber  aspic, 
cut  fine,  cabbage.  Season  with  a  few  capers  and  a  little  chopped 
pickle. — ^Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Scald  6  tomatoes  so  that  the  skins  can  be 
easily  removed.  Cut  a  slice  from  top  of  each,  and  with  a  smalll 
spoon  remove  seeds.  Peel  2  cucumbers  and  cut  into  dice,  season 
highly  and  mix  with  at  least  half  of  the  dressing.  Fill  tomato  cups 
with  this,  and  put  another  spoon  of  the  dressing  on  top.  Sprinkle 
a  very  little  finely  chopped  parsley  over,  and  serve  on  a  bed  of  let- 
tuce leaves.  The  cucum'bers  may  be  omitted  and  chopped  nuts 
added  instead.— Mrs.  D.  E.  Allen,  423  9th  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

TOPSY-TURVY  SALAD.— Mix  cold  cooked  potatoes,  string 
beans,  peas,  beets,  lima  beans,  cauliflower,  asparagus  and  shredded 
raw  cabbage,  any  or  all,  and  serve  very  cold  on  lettuce  with  French 
dressing  or  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  D.  C.  Daniels,  Arlington  Heights, 
111. 

TONNO  SALAD. — ^Open  and  drain  a  can  of  tonno.  Flake 
fine  with  a  fork  and  mix  with  3  tomatoes,  peeled,  and  sliced,  and  31 
green  peppers,  seeded  and  cut  into  rings.  Serve  on  lettuce  and  mix 
with  French  dossing,  using  cider  vinegar.  (Tonno  can  be  had  at 
any  Italian  grocery.) — Mrs.  A.  C.  Christy,  Glen  View,  111. 

TRUFFLE  SALAD.— Chop  fine  6  truffles  and  mix  with  2  or  3 
minced  fillets  of  anchovies.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  French  dress- 
ing.— Mrs.  Chris.  Worthington,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

TURKEY  SALAD. — Marinate  diced  turkey  in  salad  dressing 
and  serve  on  lettuce.  Add,  as  desired,  finely  cut  celery,  chopped' 
pickle,  cooked  beets,  carrots,  potatoes,  asparagus,  boiled  celery 
root,  parboiled  oysters,  bits  of  sour  orange,  freed  from  seeds  and 
membrane,  boiled  chestnuts  or  shredded  apples.  Garnish  with 
hard-boiled  eggs,  capers  and  parsley. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S. 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Mix  diced  cooked  turkey  with  boiled 
chestnuts  or  bits  of  finely  cut  celery,  add  a  little  (;hopped  hard-* 
boiled  egg,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  D. 
E.  Allen,  423  9th  St.,  Wilmette,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Cut  cold  boiled  turkey,  duck,  goose  or 
chicken  into  small  dice.     With  2  cups  of  this  meat  mix  a  cup  of 


490  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC. 

celery  cut  into  dice.  Sprinkle  all  with  salt  and  pepper.  Into  3 
tablespoons  of  oil  stir  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Pour  this  over  the 
turkey  and  celery  and  toss  until  well  mixed.  Line  a  chilled  bowl 
with  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  fill  with  the  turkey  salad  and  pour  may- 
onnaise dressing  over  all.  The  dark  meat  of  the  legs  is  rejected  un- 
less it  is  very  tender. — Mrs.  Wm.  S.  Kies,  Abbotsford  Rd.,  Kenil- 
worth,  111. 

TURNIP  SALAD. — Mix  diced,  cold,  cooked  turnips  with  flaked 
shrimps,  minced  chives,  blanched  and  shredded  almonds,  shredded 
raisins  and  chopped  pickles  or  capers.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  salad 
dressing. — ^Mts.  Abner  Grant,  Sherman,  111. 

VARIATION  L — Cut  4  turnips  into  dice  and  cook  until  ten- 
der. Drain  and  cool.  Dissolve  half  a  package  of  soaked  gelatin 
in  2  cups  of  boiling  water  and  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  a  table- 
spoon each  of  tomato  catsup  and  tarragon  vinegar,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  season  highly.  Rub  a  bowl  with  cut  garlic  and  strain  the 
mixture  into  it.  Line  individual  moulds  with  chopped  truffles,  fill 
with  turnip  dice,  cover  with  jelly,  and  chill.  Turn  out  on  thin 
slices  of  cold  boiled  tongue  or  ham  and  serve  with«French  dress- 
ing or  mayonnaise,  garnishing  with  crisp  lettuce  or  cress.  The 
chokes  from  artichokes  may  be  used  instead  of  the  turnips. — Mrs^ 
Chris.  Worthington,  Des  Plaines,  111. 

TURNIPS  IN  JELLY.— Cut  4  turnips  in  tiny  dice;  throw 
them  into  boiling  unsalted  water  and  cook  until  transparent.  Drain 
carefully.  Cover  ^  box  of  gelatin  with  a  J4  cup  of  cold  water  to 
soak  for  a  J^  hr.  Add  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1 
saltspoon  of  pepper,  1  tablespoon  tarragon  vinegar,  and  one  of 
tomato  catsup.  Now  add  a  pt.  of  boiling  water.  Rub  the  bottom 
of  a  bowl  with  a  clove  of  garlic.  Stir  the  mixture;  strain  through 
2  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth  into  the  bowl.  Line  the  bottom  of 
fancy  ^molds  with  this  jelly.  When  hard,  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  truffle;  fill  in  the  blocks  of  turnip;  cover  with  the  jelly, 
which  must  be 'cool,  not  hard,  and  stand  aside  on  the  ice.  When 
ready  to  serve  turn  on  rounds  of  cold  boiled  tongue,  and  serve' 
with  French  dressing.  The  "chokes"  from  the  French  or  globe 
artichoke  may  »be  used  in  the  place  of  turnips. — Mrs.  C.  JT  Can- 
thorn,  Wilmette,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  491 

VEAL  SALAD.— Cube  or  chop  fine  2^  lbs.  of  cold  boiled  veal 
and  season  to  taste;  mix  with  1  can  peas,  washed  and  drained,  and 
just  before  serving  add  1  cup  of  salad  dressing  and  1  cup  of 
whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Use  equal  parts  of  well-cooked  cold  veal 
cut  into  small  pieces,  and  finely  chopped  white  cabbage.  Marinate 
the  veal  for  2  hrs.  Drain  and  mix  with  the  cabbage.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  chopped  pickle,  and  cover  with  may- 
onnaise dressing. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Adams,  576  Willow  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Moisten  diced  veal  with  salad  dressing  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  A  choice  of  any  or  all  of  the  followingi 
may  be  mixed  with  it:  Pounded  anchovies,  chopped  pickles,  ca- 
pers, shredded  cabbage,  finely  cut  celery,  cold  fresh  pork  or  fowl. 
Season  with  mustard  or  horseradish.  Garnish  with  hard-boiled 
eggs. — Mrs.  F.  A.  Lester,  Essex  Rd.,  Kenilworth,  111. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD.— Chop,  dice  or  slice  4  hard-boiled 
eggs,  2  onions,  1  bunch  of  radishes,  }i  'bunch  lettuce,  12  medium- 
sized  potatoes,  2  cucumbers.  Garnish  with  parsley  or  the  sliced  or 
quartered  eggs. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Separate  the  leaves  of  fresh  lettuce,  wash 
thoroughly  and  lay  in  cold  water  to  crisp;  wipe  dry  and  spread  out 
on  a  flat  dish.  Peel  and  slice  thinly  some  raw  tomatoes  and  lay 
over  lettuce;  then  a  layer  of  cucumbers,  and  over  this  another  layer 
of  tomatoes.     Onions  may  be  added,  if  desired. 

Dressing. — Cook  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  stirring  all  the  time  to 
make  a  smooth  paste;  let  cool;  stir  the  yolks  of  2  raw  eggs  with  the 
cooked  one;  add  j^  teaspoon  of  mustard,  salt  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Stir  in  1  tablespoon  or  more  of  olive  oil,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.. 
Just  before  serving  pour  the  dressing  over  the  salad  and  slice  a 
lemon  over  the  whole,  and  serve. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka, 
111. 

VARIATION  II.— 2  boiled  beets,  chopped  fine,  1  cup  celery, 
also  chopped  fine;  1  parsnip,  1  carrot,  peeled  and  cut  oblong,  and 
laid  alternately  for  garnishing,  with  salt  and  whipped  cream  for 
dressing.  Cool  and  serve  at  once.  This  makes  a  pretty,  dish. — i 
Mrs.  E.  D,  Bennett,  Bartlett,  111. 


492  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC. 

JELLIED  VEGETABLE  SALAD.— Put  cold  cooked  vegeta- 
bles, cut  into  dice  or  fancy  shapes,  into  small  cups.  Dissolve  half 
a  package  of  gelatin  in  cold  water,  add  a  cup  of  water  and  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar.  Bring  to  the  boil,  fill  the  moulds,  and  chill.  Serve 
on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  C.  J.   Canthorn,  Wilmette,  IJl. 

WALDORF  SALAD. — Sprinkle  chopped  apples,  celery  and 
walnut  meats  in  their  order  on  lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with  salad 
dressing. — Mary  Herring,  404  S.  11th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Cut  up  equal  parts  of  tender  celery  into  y2- 
inch  pieces  and  apples  in  5^-inch  cubes,  selecting  sour,  crisp  apples. 
To  each  cupful  of  apples  and  celery,  add  ^  a  cup  of  chopped  English 
walnuts.  Add  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  white  pepper,  and 
just  before  serving,  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Turn  into  a 
salad-bowl  lined  with  lettuce  leaves.  Or  it  may  be  garnished  with 
white  celery. tops. — Mrs.  Abner  Lenhart,  Franklin,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Select  5^  doz.  rather  tart  apples,  pare  evenly 
in  salad-dish,  mix  with  1  cup  or  more  diced  celery  and  1  cup' 
chopped  English  walnuts.  May  also  be  served  in  cups  of  hollowed 
apples. — iMabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  III. — Cut  equal  parts  celery  and  tart  apple  into 
cubes;  place  in  salad-bowl  and  add  the  following  dressing:  1  tea- 
spoon mustard,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  4  teaspoons  sugar,  pinch  of  cay- 
enne, 1  ^g^,  Vt.  cup  of  vinegar,  boil,  and  when  cold  stir  in  54  cup 
sweet  cream.  The  addition  of  chopped  walnuts  to  the  salad  im- 
proves it. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  IV. — Mix  4  cups  of  finely  cut  celery  with  3  large 
sour  apples,  diced,  and  ^  cup  of  broken  hickory-nuts,  almonds, 
English  walnuts,  peanuts,  pecans,  hazlenuts,  filberts  or  Brazil  nuts. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  mix  with  salad  dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce 
or  in  cups  made  of  bright  red  apples. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S^ 
Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

WALNUT  SALAD. — Make  a  nest  of  lettuce  leaves  on  a  salad- 
dish,  arrange  on  it  several  pieces  of  orange,  first  cut  into  slicesj 
and  then  into  quarters,  and  a  few  halves  of  English  walnuts.  Put! 
on  each  a  layer  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  serve. — Mrs.  W.  B. 
Palmer,  1132  Forest  Ave.,  Wilmette,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  493 

VARIATION  I. — Combine  walnut  meats  with  equal  parts  of 
celery,  cut  in  small  pieces,  cover  with  French  dressing,  and  serve 
on  lettuce  or  similar  leaves.  Walnuts  may  also  'be  used  with  cream 
cheese,  tomatoes  or  oranges. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn 
St.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— Chop  lettuce  and  the  whites  of  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs  separately,  not  too  fine.  Toss  lightly  together,  sprin- 
kle the  top  thickly  with  English  walnuts  and  the  yolk  of  the  egg, 
chopped  coarsely.  Pour  over  this  a  salad  dressing,  and  serve  on 
crisp  lettuce. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  Winnetka,  111. 

WATERCRESS  SALAD.— Select  the  best  bunches,  remove  the 
heavy  stalks,  clean  and  dry  in  a  napkin  and  place  in  a  salad-bowl. 
Dress  with  salt,  pepper,  lemon  or  vinegar.  Add  a  little  sugar,  if 
desired. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelly,  Winnetka,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Let  the  tender  leaves  of  the  cress  stand  in 
cold  water  to  make  them  crisp,  and  then  wipe  dry.  Sprinkle  a  tea- 
spoon of  parsley  and  olives,  chopped  fine.  Add  a  few  slices  of 
sour  apples  and  pour  over  it  French  dressing,  which  is  made  of  ^ 
teaspoon  of  salt,  %  teaspoon  of  pepper,  mixed  with  3  tablespoons 
of  oil  and  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  stirred  in  slowly.  Garnish  with 
a  hard-boiled  tgg,  chopped  fine,  and  scattered  over  it. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

WATERCRESS  AND  WALNUT  SALAD.— Crack  30  walnuts 
and  remove  their  meats  as  nearly  as  possible  in  unbroken  halves. 
Squeeze  over  them  the  juice  of  1  large  or  2  small  lemons,  and  leave 
them  for  several  hrs.,  or  a  day,  if  convenient.  Just  before  dinner 
pick  over,  in  a  cool  place,  1  full  pt.  of  watercress,  wash  it  carefully^ 
and  drain  it  on  a  napkin.  At  the  last  moment  drench  the  cress  with 
French  dressing,  spread  the  nuts  over  it,  give  them  also  a  generous 
sprinkling  of  the  dressing,  and  serve. — Mrs.  Roger  Rawlings,  Chi- 
cago Heights,  111. 

WATERMELON  SALAD.— Serve  cubes  of  ice  cold  water- 
melon on  lettuce  with  French  dressing,  made  with  lemon  juice.— j- 
Mrs.  Robert  Randall,  908  S.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

WHITE  SALAD.— Dice  6,  not  too  tart,  apples,  and 
1     medium-sized     pineapple,     peel     and  seed     1     lb.     of     grapes. 


494  CHEESE,  MACARONI,  NUTS,  &  RICE,  ETC. 

Thin  mayonnaise  dressing  with  whipped  cream  and  add  a  little 
sugar.  Serve  on  well-'bleached  head  lettuce  leaves  or  white  celery 
tops.— *Mrs.  D.  C.  Everitt,  207  S.  6th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

WIERSBICK'S  SALAD.— Peel  small  tomatoes  of  uniform  size 
and  scoop  out  a  portion  of  centers.  Arrange  in  nests  of  lettuc^e 
leaves  and  garnish  top  of  each  with  a  slice  of  cucumber,  a  slice  of 
truffle  cut  in  fancy  shape,  and  ring  of  green  pepper.  Serve  with 
the  following  dressing:  Mix  3  tablespoons  mustard,  %.  teaspoon 
salt,  Ys  teaspoon  paprika,  1  tablespoon  vinegar,  and  ^  teaspoon; 
Worcestershire  sauce;  then  add  slowly,  while  stirring  constantly, 
^  cup  of  olive  oil. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Willis,  Glencoe,  111. 

WINTER  SALAD. — 2  qts.  green  cucumbers,  2  qts,  green  to- 
matoes, large  cauliflower,  a  pinch  of  red  pepper.  Let  stand  over 
night  in  salt  in  separate  dishes.  Drain  in  the  morning  and  scald  in 
vinegar  and  water;  add  6  bunches  of  celery,  1  gal.  vinegar,  %  lb. 
mustard,  3  teaspoons  tumeric,  5j^  cups  sugar,  1  heaping  cup  flour. 
Mix  mustard,  flour  and  tumeric  in  cold  vinegar;  put  on  and  scald. — 
Mrs.  D.  C.  Daniels,  Arlington  Heights,  111. 


Canning,  Preserving,  Jelly 
Making  and  Pickling 


APPLE  BUTTER.— Take  6  gal.  sweet  cider  and  boil  it  down 
one-ithird;  pare,  quarter  and  core  ^  a  bu.  of  sweet  apples;  stew 
them  in  the  boiled  cider  until  you  can  pierce  the  apples  with  a 
straw.  Keep  in  a  covered  jar. — Mrs.  R.  A.  Watkins,  Oak  Forest, 
111. 

ENGLISH  LEMON  BUTTER.— Boil  together  juice  and  rind 
of  3  lemons,  3  ggs,  well  beaten,  1  lb.  sugar,  1  cup  water,  1  tea- 
spoon butter,  beat  together  and  boil  5  minutes.  Keep  in  covered 
jelly  glasses. — Mrs,  S.  A.  Perkins,  Palos  Park,  111. 

ORANGE  BUTTER.— Pare  8  large  oranges,  cut  into  thin 
slices,  pour  over  them  1^  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  boil  1  pt.  of 
milk,  and  while  boiling  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  corn 
starch,  made  smooth  with  cold  milk.  Stir  constantly,  and  when 
thick  pour  over  the  fruit;  beat  the  whites  of  the  egga  to  a  froth, 
sweeten,  pour  over  the  custard,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Serve 
cold. — Mrs.  Edgar  Wilkinson,  Palos,  111. 

PEACH  BUTTER.— Take  lb.  for  lb.  of  peaches  and  sugar, 
cook  peaches  alone  until  they  become  soft,  then  put  in  Y^  the  sugar, 
and  stir  Y^  hr.,  then  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  and  stir  XYi  hrs.' 
Season  with  cloves  and  cinnamon. — Mrs.  Edgar  Wilkinson,  Palos 
111. 

TOMATO  BUTTER.— Take  10  lbs.  ripe  tomatoes,  peel  and 
slice,  cover  with  a  pt.  of  vinegar,  let  stand  over  night,  in  the  morn- 
ing put  in  a  colander  and  strain,  then  make  a  syrup  of  1  qt.  of  vine- 
gar and  3  lbs.  brown  sugar,  1^  cups  tomato  juice;  add  1  saltspoon 
salt  and  1  teaspoon  red  pepper;  tie  in  a  bag  1  teaspoon  whole 
cloves,  some  stick  cinnamon,  put  in  kettle  with  syrup.  Let  syrup  get 
hot  before  adding  tomatoes.  Boil  3  hrs. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Chauncy,  Mt. 
Prospect,  111. 

49S 


496  CANNING,  PRESERVING  AND  PICKLING 

CANDIED  ORANGE  OR  LEMON  PEEL.— Take  peel  of 
orange  in  quarters,  large  size  is  best.  Remove  all  the  white  fiber 
from  peel,  put  in  salt  and  water  for  5  or  6  days,  remove  from  brine 
and  put  in  a  saucepan  of  fresh  water  and  set  on  stove  to  boil  till 
tender  enough  to  run  a  straw  through  easy.  Then  drain  water, 
make  syrup  of  1  lb.  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  water,  let  boil 
and  skim.  Then  add  the  peel,  let  boil  for  20  minutes,  let  stand 
in  syrup  for  a  couple  of  weeks.  Seal  up  in  a  sealer,  drain  off  syrup 
and  put  layers  in  sugar  and  let  stand. — Mrs,  A.  L.  Lansing,  Floss- 
more,  111. 

CANNING  FRUITS.— In  canning  fruits,  sweeten  to  suit  the 
taste.  One-quarter  of  a  lb.  to  a  lb.  of  fruit  is  enough,  unless  fruilt 
is  very  sour,  then  use  ^  lb.  None  but  the  finest  white  sugar  is. 
to  be  used.  Select  fruit  of  firm  and  good  quality.  Pare  and  place 
in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water.  Put  a  dish  under  the  fruit  to 
catch  the  juice,  afterward  to  be  strained  and  added  to  the  syrup. 
Let  them  steam  until  they  may  be  pierced  with  a  broom  straw. 
Make  a  syrup  of  the  best  sugar,  have  it  boiling  hot,  dip  the  fruit 
into  the  syrup  and  put  it  into  the  cans  or  jars.  Then  pour  over 
the  boiling  syrup  to  fill  the  vessel.  Seal  immediately  to  keep  in 
the  steam. — Mrs.  E.  L.  Matthews,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

CANNING  CHERRIES.— When  preparins:  cherries,  take  the 
stones  out  of  about  every  fourth  cherry  (leave  the  rest  in  for  fla- 
voring). Weigh  or  measure  the  cherries,  put  in  a  saucepan,  and 
put  enough  water  on  to  just  cover  the  cherries.  Bring  to  a  boil, 
and  let  cook  till  the  skin  cracks;  then  put  5^  as  much  sugar  as 
you  have  cherries,  and  let  boil  5  minutes  longer;  take  off  the  stove, 
and  seal  up  while  hot. — ^Mrs.  L.  E.  Mason,  Oak  Glen,  111. 

CANNED  GRAPES. — Pick  ripe  grapes  carefully  from  the 
stems,  wash  and  pack  in  glass  jars.  Make  syrup  of  granulated! 
sugar  and  pour  this  boiling  syrup  over  the  grapes  and  seal. — Mrs. 
Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CANNED  HUCKLEBERRIES.— Pick  over  and  wash  berries, 
then  put  into  a  preserving  kettle  with  a  small  quantity,  of  water, 
just  enough  to  prevent  berries  from  burning.    Cook  till  soft,  skim- 
ming occasionally,  and  fill  sterilized  jars  to  overflow.     Let  stand 
until  cold,  again  screw  covers,  being  sure  this  time  the  jars  are 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  497 

airtight.  While  filling  jars  place  them  on  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  hot 
water.  No  sugar  is  required  in  canning  huckleberries,  but  a 
sprinkling  of  salt  is  an  agreeable  addition. — Mrs.  C,  E.  Rennaker, 
Chicago  Ridge,  111. 

CANNED  PEACHES.— Make  a  syrup  of  equal  quantities  of 
sugar  and  water.  Pare  good,  firm  peaches,  remove  the  stones  and 
cook  till  tender.  Can  while  hot,  and  seal. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Rennaker, 
Chicago  Ridge,  111. 

CANNED  PEARS.— Pare  the  fruit  and  cut  in  halves  and  place 
in  cold  water,  or  it  will  discolor.  Use  1  lb.  of  sugar  for  3  lbs. 
fruit,  and  1  qt.  water  for  3  lbs.  of  sugar.  When  sugar  is  boiling, 
take  the  pears  from  the  water  and  drop  into  the  syrup.  Cook  unli) 
they  can  be  pierced  easily  with  a  silver  fork.  Fill  the  jars  to  the 
brim  with  the  boiling  syrup.  Have  bottle  hot,  also  the  covers. — 
Mrs.  C.  A.  Armstrong,  Oaklawn,  111. 

TO  CAN  PIEPLANT.— Wash  thoroughly,  cut  in  pieces  as  for" 
pie.  crowd  as  much  into  the  can  as  possible,  filling  the  can  with 
pure  cold  water,  have  the  rubber  on,  immerse  the  can  in  a  pail  of 
water,  screw  on  top  while  under  water.     Pour  oflF  water  when  ready 
to  use. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PINEAPPLE  AND  RHUBARB  CANNED.— Cut  in  dice  2 
cups  pineapple,  1  cup  rhubarb,  put  in  sterilized  jars,  pour  over 
them  a  heavy  syrup  made  of  2  parts  sugar  and  1  of  water,  and  let 
cook  for  some  time. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Remley,  Willow  Springs,  111. 

BAKED  PLUMS.— 8  lbs.  plums.  5  lbs.  sugar.     Put  in  a  crock 
A  layer  of  fruit  and  a  layer  of  sugar,  until  all  are  used.     Cover  and 
put  in  a  slow  oven,  and  bake  for  4  hrs.,  or  until  done.     You  can 
leave  them  in  the  crock  or  put  in  cans. — Mr^.  Chas.  Kramer,  Sut- 
ton.   111. 

CANNED  PINEAPPLE.— Pare  pineapple  and  grate  on  a 
coarse  grater,  cover  with  water  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  for  2  hrs.. 
Make  a  thick  syrup  by  taking  ^/i  of  a  lb.  of  sugar  to  every  lb.  of 
fruit  and  suflRcient  water  to  moisten,  and  boil  until  clear.  Skim 
frequently,  and  add  fruit  to  syrup.  Cook  20  minutes,  and 
put  in  cans. — ^Mrs.  E.  D.  Blaine,  Belmont,  111. 

CANNED  PLUMS.— To  1  lb.  of  fruit  allow  1  pt.  of  water  and 
14  lb.  of  sugar.     Select  good,  fresh  fruit,  wipe  and  prick  the  skins. 


498  CANNING,  PRESERVING  AND  PICKLING 

Then  pack  into  scalded  sealers."  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and 
water  and  pour  this  over  the  fruit.  Put  the  tops  loosely  on  and 
set  into  a  boiler  of  cold  water,  having  it  come  54  up  on  the  bottles. 
Have  hay  on  boards  in  bottom  to  prevent  them  touching  the  bot- 
tom. Boil  5^  hr.,  then  take  out  and  screw  the  tops  down  tightly 
and  turn  upside  down.  Leave  them  till  they  cool,  store  in  a  dark 
cellar.  All  fruit  can  be  prepared  the  same  way. — Mrs.  M.  E. 
Holmes,  Homewood,  111, 

CANNED  QUINCES.— Peel  core,  quarter  or  cut  in  eighths, 
if  large,  then  weigh  the  quinces,  put  them  in  a  kettle,  cover  with 
water  and  cook  till  soft,  drain  oil  the  water,  leaving  a  very  little. 
add  y^  lb.  sugar  to  each  lb.  of  fruit.  Cook  till  the  sugar  is  melted. 
—Mrs.  L.  R.  Ridley,  Finley,  111. 

CANNING  RASPBERRIES.— Pick  and  clean  the  raspberries 
and  put  into  qt.  fruit  jars.  Then  make  a  good  thick  syrup  and  put 
over  them,  but  not  quite  filling  the  jars.  Take  your  boiler,  put  a 
board  in  the  bottom  of  boiler,  put  in  some  cold  water,  then  put  in 
jars  (have  the  water  just  to  bottom  of  rings  on  jars),  bring  to  a  boil 
and  let  boil  1  hr.  Let  the  jars  cool  a  little  before  taking  out  of 
water.  When  you  have  them  out,  fill  with  hot  syrup  and  seal. — 
Mrs.  F.  Alexander,  Glenwood,  111. 

CANNED  STRAWBERRIES.— Take  the  freshest  strawber- 
ries, wash,  drain,  stem,  fill  glass  jars  to  within  2  inches  of  the  top 
with  the  fruit  well  packed.  Have  the  wash  boiler  lined  with  straw 
over  the  bottom,  lay  board  over  to  give  a  flat  bottom,  and  set 
filled  jars  on  boards,  pour  in  lukewarm  water  to  fill  up  to  the 
shoulder  of  the  jars,  allowing  none  to  get  inside,  lay  the  lids 
loosely  on  top,  and  put  boiler  lid  over  tight.  Leave  in  until  the 
fruit  is  tender  enough  to  prick  through  with  a  straw.  In  the 
meantime  make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water.  When  the  fruit  is 
tender,  take  out  the  jars  one  at  a  time  and  pour  over  the  fruit 
until  jars  are  full  and  seal  at  once. — Mrs.  Chas.  F.  Miller,  1509 
St.  Charles  Ave.,  Ma3rwood,  111. 

CURRANT  CONSERVE.— 5  lbs.  currants,  5  lbs.  sugar,  2  lbs. 
raisins.  4  oranges,  steam  currants  15  minutes,  then  add  sugar 
(warmed  as  for  jelly)  while  currants  are  cooking  and  cook  5  min- 
utes.   Add  raisins  and  cook  20  minutes  more,  add  oranges  after 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         499 

grating  rind  and  all,  and  cook  for  5  minutes.     Put  in  cans  and  seal. 
— Mrs.  C.  E.  Rennaker,  Chicago  Ridge,  111. 

PLUM  CONSERVE.— 5  lbs.  of  plums,  after  being  stoned,  3  lbs. 
sugar,  4  oranges,  1  lemon,  2  lbs.  raisins.  Cook  ^  hr. — Mrs.  Conk- 
lin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

RHUBARB  CONSERVE.— 3  lbs.  rhubarb,  peeled;  2  lemons, 
whole;  %  lb.  blanched  almonds.  Put  through  coarse  grinder  or 
chop  fairly  fine.  Add  3  lbs.  sugar,  and  boil  slowly  until  thick,  like,' 
jam. — Mrs.  Wm.  P.  Williams,  4463  Woodlawn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

ARTIFICIAL  HONEY.— Mix  together  10  lbs.  white  sugar,  3 
lbs.  clear  bees'  honey,  1  qt.  hot  water,  ^2  oz.  cream  tartar;  wihen' 
cool  flavor  with  2  or  3  drops  otter  of  roses  and  sprinkle  in  a  hand- 
ful of  clear  yellow  honeycomb,  broken  up.  This  will  deceive  the 
best  judges,  and  is  perfectly  healthy. — Mrs.  R.  A.  Watkins,  Oak 
Forest,  111. 

QUINCE  HONEY.— Pare  and  grate  3  large  quinces,  add  3 
lbs.  white  sugar  and  1  qt.  cold  water,  boil  20  minutes.  Seal  whille 
hot. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

DRIED  APRICOT  JAM.— 1  lb.  dried  apricots,  3  pts.  water, 
2]^  lbs.  sugar.     Soak  the  apricots  in  water  for  2  days,  then  boil 
together  till  quite  tender.     Set  aside  till  next  day,  and  boil  with 
the  sugar  for  1  hr.     A  few  chopped  almonds  are  an  improvement. 
Mrs.  Edgar  Wilkinson,  Palos,  111. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM.— To  each  lb.  of  fruit  add  ^  lb.  sugar, 
mash  each  separately,  then  put  together  and  boil-  J4  to  ^  hr. — 
Mrs.  C.  C.  Chauncy,  Mt.  Prospect,  111. 

GOOSEBERRY  JAM.— Put  a  little  water  on  the  berries  and 
cook  until  tender,  then  add  about  the  same  ofsugar  as  berries,  and 
cook  2  or  3  minutes. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

GRAPE  JAM. — Remove  grapes  from  stems,  measure  1  cup^. 
then  wash  them  and  press  pulp  from  skins.  Boil  pulp  until  it  will 
separate  from  seeds.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  skins  to  pulp  and 
boil  3  minutes;  then  add  J^  cup  sugar  and  boil  gently  until  thick- 
ened, perhaps   15   minutes.     Pour  into  sterilized   glasses   or  jars. 


500  CANNING,    PRESERVNG   AND    PICKLING 

When  cold  cover  with  paraffine. — Mrs.  A.  L.  Lansing,  Flossmore, 
111. 

RASPBERRY  JAM.— To  5  or  6  lbs.  fine,  red  raspberries  (not 
too  ripe),  add  an  equal  quantity  of  the  finest  quality  of  white  sugar; 
mash  the  whole  well  in  a  preserving  kettle,  add  1  qt.  currant 
juice  and  boil  gently  until  it  jellies  upon  a  cold  plate,  then  put 
into  small  jars,  cover  with  brandied  paper,  and  tie  a  thick  white 
paper  over  them.  Keep  in  a  dark,  dry,  and  cool  place. — Mrs.  E.  L. 
Matthews,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

RHUBARB  JAM. — Cut  rhubarb  in  1-inch  pieces  and  to  1  lb. 
rhubarb  allow  ^  lb.  of  granulated  sugar,  sprinkling  it  over  the 
rhubarb,  and  let  it  remain  all  night.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the 
liquid  and  boil  till  quite  thick,  then  add  rhubarb,  and  cook  IS  min-/ 
utes.  Keep  in  glass  same  as  jelly,  also  use  gallon  stone  jars,  and 
it  keeps  all  winter. — Mrs.  'L.  E.  Mason,  Oak  Glen,  111. 

JELLIES 

Jellies  are  made  of  equal  amounts   of  cooked  fruit  juice  and 
sugar.     Sugar  should  be  heated  in  an  agate  dish  in  a  cool  oven 
stirring  occasionally. 

Fruit  should  be  underripe  for  most  jellies.  No  water  should 
be  added  to  currants,  grapes  or  berries,  and  the  fruit  should 
be  heated  slowly.  When  very  soft,  remove  from  fire  and  drain  in 
a  sterilized  jelly  bag.  Heat  the  juice  slowly  and  boil  gently  the 
required  time;  then  add  the  heated  sugar  and  boil  from  2  to  5 
minutes.  Pour  into  sterilized  glasses,  and  when  cold  cover  witli 
paraffine.     Cut  white  paper  for  tops  if  glasses  have  no  tin  covers. 

The  jelly  bag  may  be  a  flannel  or  two  thicknesses  of  cheese- 
cloth.— Mrs.  C.  E.  Rennaker,  Chicago  Ridge,  111. 

APPLE  JELLY. — Wash,  quarter  and  core,  but  do  not  peel,  a 
quantity  of  the  best  sour  apples,  put  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  and 
pour  on  water  to  nearly,  but  not  quite  cover  the  apples,  whidh 
should  be  quite  firm  (as  only  such  can  be  successfully  used  for 
jelly);  if  at  all  mellow,  use  less  water.  Boil  until  tender,  strain 
through  a  flannel  jelly^bag,  but  do  not  squeeze  if  you  desire  the 
most  delicate  jelly,  as  by  squeezing,  enough  pulp  will  be  forced 
through  the  bag  to  give  the  jelly  a  cloudy  appearance,  though  the 
flavor  will  not  be  at  all  injured.     Measure  the  juice  and  return  to 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  501 

the  kettle,  boil  5  minutes  and  then  add  1  pt.  of  granulated  sugar 
for  every  pt.  of  juice  and  boil  again,  test  by  dropping  from  the  end 
of  the  spoon  into  cold  water;  if  it  goes  to  the  bottom  it  has  boiled 
long  enough  (usually  about  15  minutes) ;  remove  from  the  fire  the 
instant  it  jellies,  as  too  much  boiling  is  ruinous;  pour  into  moulds 
and  seal  as  soon  as  cold.  This  is  a  very  delicate  and  delicious  jelly 
which  can  be  made  at  any  time  during  the  fall. and  winter  months, 
after  the  hurry  and  rush  of  summer  canning  and  preserving  is  over, 
and  no  housewife  who  once  succeeds  in  making  a  perfect  article  o£ 
apple  jelly  will  ever  after  omit  it  from  her  larder. — Mrs,  C.  A.  Arm- 
strong, Oaklawn,  111. 

GREEN  APPLE  JELLY.— Common  windfall  apples  or  any 
tart,  juicy  apples  which  are  not  quite  ripe,  make  a  nice"  jelly,  much 
more  economical  and  quite  as  satisfactory  as  the  jelly. made  from 
ripe  apples.  Cut  the  apples  in  quarters,  remove  all  -bruised  or 
decayed  spots,  but  do  not  peel.  Cook  t;^der  in  just  enough  water 
to  cover.  Drain  in  a  bag  all  night.  !l^il  the  juic^  abmit  ^  hr., 
and  skim.  Measure  the  juice,  and  to  each  cup  of  juice, .a<idi^  cup 
sugar,  boil  about  20  minutes  after  the  sugar  is  in;  ^heri  done 
pour  into  warm  glasses  and  set  aside  to  coh].  When  ^Id  pour 
melted  paraffine  wax  over  the  top  and  i)lace  in  a  co^  cellar  or 
fruit  pantry.  Red  apples  may  be  used  and  will  give  a  good  color. 
Wild  or  crabapples  may  be  made  up  in  the  same  way,  either  alone 
or  in  combination  with  other  apples.  Green  pliins,  which  have 
been  blown  ofif  by  the  winds,  may  be  made  into  jelly  in  this  man- 
ner, either  combining  with  the  apples  or  alone, — Mrs,  D,  E.  Rem- 
ley.  Willow  Springs,  111. 

CRABAPPLE  JELLY. — Remove  blossoms  and  any  imperfec- 
tions in  the  crabapple;  wash  and  cut  in  pieces.  Nearly  cover  with 
cold  water  and  cook  slowly  until  soft.  Drain  in  bag.  Use  the 
juice  which  drips  through  for  perfectly  clear  jelly;  then  squeeze 
the  bag  for  second  quality.  To  1  cup  of  juice  use  1  cup  of  heated 
sugar.  Boil  juice  slowly  IS  minutes;  add  sugar  and  boil  5  min- 
utes, skimming  as  often  as  necessary.  Pour  into  glasses,  as  direct- 
ed.— Mrs.  Chas.  Kramer,  Sutton,  111. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY.— Wash  and  pick  1  qt.  of  cranberries; 
put  them  in  a  kettle,  bring  the  cranberries  to  a  'boiling  point;  put 
them  through  a  colander,  pressing  out  as  much  as  possible  of  the 


502  CANNING,  PRESERVING  AND  PICKLING 

pulp.  Add  to  the  cranberries  1  lb.  of  sugar.  Stir  over  the  fire  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  the  mixture  reaches  the  boiling  point. 
Turil  at  once  into  moulds  and  stand  away  to  harden. — Mrs.  E.  D. 
Blaine,  Belmont,  111. 

RED  CURRANT  JELLY.— Wash  but  do  not  steam  currants. 
Put,  without  water,  into  the  inner  vessel  of  a  double  boiler  and 
cook  until  soft  and  broken.  Take  from  the  fire  and  squeeze 
through  a  jelly  bag.  Measure  the  juice  and  to  every  pt.  of  it 
allow  a  lb.  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  the  juice  into  the  preserving 
kettle  over  the  fire.  Set  the  sugar  in  shallow  pans  in  the  oven  to 
heat,  stirring  occasionally  that  it  may  not  scorch.  Boil  the  juice 
for  20  minutes,  skimming  often.  Add  the  heated  sugar,  stir  until 
it  is  all  dissolved,  bring  the  jelly  to  the  boil  and  take  at  once  from 
the  fire.  Pour  into  glasses. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

GRAPE  JELLY. — WaSh  grapes  and  remove  from  stems.  Cook 
gently,  stirring  often.  Proceed  as  directed.  Boil  juice  only  5 
minutes  and  juice  and  sugar  3  minutes.  Wild  or  half-ripe  grapes 
make  the  best  jelly. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Holmes,  Homewood,  111. 

PLUM  JELLY. — Pour  enough  boiling  water  over  plums  to 
cover,  drain  off  the  water  immediately,  cover  with  boiling  water 
again  and  let  them  boil  until  the  juice  begins  to  run;  drain  oil  the 
juice.  Allow  1  lb.  of  juice  to  1  lb.  of  sugar.  Boil  20  to  30  min- 
utes.— Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

QUINCE  JELLY.— Take  the  water  that  quinces  were  boiled 
in  and  add  ^  lb.  sugar  to  a  pt.  of  juice,  and  boil  till  it  jellies. — 
Mrs.  M.  E.  Holmes,  Homewood,  111. 

APPLE  MARMALADE.— Peel  and  core  1  lb.  apples,  slice 
into  eighths  and  put  in  a  basin  of  water;  lift  the  apples,  dripping, 
into  a  preserving  pan  and  boil  with  1  lb.  sugar,  ^  oz.  whole  ginger 
and  the  rind  of  5^  a  lemon  until  quite  clear;  add  lemon  juice 
about  20  minutes  before  the  preserve  is  done. — Mabel  Sturtevant. 
105  S.  Dearborn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SPICED  CURRANT  MARMALADE.— Bring  to  a  boil  5  cups 
sugar,  1  cup  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  add  5  cups  currants 
which  have  been  pressed  through  a  sieve.     Cook  2  minutes,  put  in 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  503 

cups.     Nice  served  with  meats. — Mrs.  R.  A.  Watkins,  Oak  Forest, 
111. 

CHERRY  MARMALADE.— Boil  together  4  qts.  of  pitted  sour 
cherries,  4  qts.  granulated  sugar^  4  chopped  oranges,  1  qt.  raisins 
and  1  cup  water.  Boil  to  a  jelly,  or  about  IK  hrs. — Mrs.  M.  E. 
Holmes,  Homewood,  111.    • 

CRABAPPLE  MARMALADE.— Quarter  and  core  10  lbs.  of 
crabapples,  add  7  lbs.  of  brown  sugar  and  3  lemons,  sliced  thin. 
Let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  cook  slowly  5  or  6  hrs., 
stirring  often. — Mrs.  S.  A.  Perkins,  Palos  Park,  111. 

CRANBERRY  MARMALADE.— Boil  together  1  qt.  cranber- 
ries, 1  pt.  water,  until  fruit  is  cooked;  then  add  1  lb.  white  sugar,  Yz 
lb.  raisins,  ^  lb.  chopped  walnuts,  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
2  oranges.     Boil  20  minutes. — Mrs.  Edgar  Wilkinson,  Palos,  III. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  MARMALADE.— 1  lemon  to  2  grape  fruits. 
Slice  fruit  in  quarter  slices.  Save  pips  and  put  into  1  pt.  of  water. 
Measure  cut  fruit  and  to  every  pt.  of  fruit  allow  2J^  pts.  of  cold 
water  and  let  stand  over  nig'ht.  Next  day  add  to  it  the  water  otif 
of  the  pips  and  boil  all  for  1  hr.  The  following  day  measure 
boiled  liquid  and  to  every  pt.  add  1%  pts.  of  sugar.  Boil  V/4  hrs., 
or  15  minutes  longer,  if  wanted  stiffer.  Put  in  glasses  and  cover 
with  paraffine.  20  glasses  of  marmalade  cost  one  dollar.  A  West 
Indian  recipe. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Chauncy,  Mt.  Prospect,  111. 

LEMON  MARMALADE.— Slice  12  lemons  very  thin,  and 
take  out  the  seeds,  pour  over  them  5  qts.  of  water  and  let  them 
stand  all  night;  the  next  morning  bring  them  to  a  boil  in  the  same 
water,  and  let  boil  until  tender  enough  to  mash  with  a  spoon,  then 
add  6  lbs.  of  sugar  and  boil  30  minutes. — Mrs.  A.  L.  Lansing,  Floss- 
more,  111. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE.— 1  lb.  of  oranges,  sliced  thin,  or 
put  through  a  grinder,  1  lemon,  sliced  crosswise,  very  thin,  add  11 
^  pt  cups  of  water,  and  let  stand  in  a  stone  jar  24  hrs.,  boil  1  hr., 
or  until  the  peeling  is  soft,  set  aside  for  another  24  hrs.  Add  4 
lbs.  of  sugar,  boil  IJ^  hrs.,  or  until  it  jellies.  Put  in  glasses,  and 
when  cool  cover  with  paraffine.  Makes  a  solid,  jelly-like  marma- 
lade.—Mrs.  G.  R  Thornton,  306  S.  2rid  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


504  CANNING,  PRESERVING  AND  PICKLING 

VARIATION  I. — 1  doz.  oranges,  peeled  and  chopped.  Boil 
half  the  peeling  in  three  waters,  boiling  about  10  minutes  each 
time.  Chop  fine,  and  add  to  the  chopped  pulp.  Measure  all,  and 
add  same  amount  of  sugar.  Boil  until  thick. — Mrs.  Wm.  P.  Wil- 
liams, 4463  Woodlawn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

VARIATION  II.— 1  grape  fruit,  1  orange,  1  lemon.  Put  rind 
and  all  through  a  coarse  grinder.  Add  8  cups  water  and  set  away 
for  24  hrs.  Boil  for  20  minutes,  and  set  away  again  for  24  hrs. 
Then  add  as  much  sugar  as  you  have  juice  and  pulp,  and  boil  until 
it  jellies.  This  should  make  8  or  10  glasses. — Mrs.  Wm.  P.  Wil- 
liams, 4463  Woodlawn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PEAR  MARMALADE.— Boil  4  lemons  in  water,  take  out 
seeds,  chop  very  fine,  add  8  pears,  chopped,  6  lbs.  sugar,  and  boil 
all  together  1  hr.  Can  while  hot. — Mrs.  E.  L.  Matthews,  Chicago 
Heights,  111. 

PUMPKIN  MARMALADE.— Cut  6  lbs.  pumpkin  fine,  put  6 
lbs.  sugar  on  and  let  stand  till  morning.  Then  add  3  oranges  and 
2  lemons,  sliced  thin.  Mix  all  together  and  boil  till  thick. — Mrs. 
L.  R.  Ridgley,  Tinley  Park,  ,111. 

RHUBARB  MARMALADE.— Boil  until  thick  5  cups  of  rhu- 
barb, chopped  fine.  Add  3  large  oranges,  sliced  thin,  5  tablespoons 
of  lemon  juice,  and  IJ^  cups  sugar  to  each  cup  of  rhubarb.  Add  1 
cup  of  English  walnuts,  chopped  fine.  Boil  until  thick,  and  bottle. 
—Mrs.  L.  E.  Mason,  Oak  Glen,  111. 

STRAWBERRY  MARMALADE.— Pick  over  carefully  small, 
sound  strawberries,  wash  and  weigh,  allowing  half  as  much  sugar 
as  fruit.  If  not  juicy,  add  a  cup  of  water.  Have  the  sugar  heating 
in  the  oven.  Boil  the  berries,  stirring  constantly  y^.  an  hr.;  add  the 
sugar,  boil  20  minutes,  seal  in  small  cans,  or  put  in  jelly  glasses. — 
Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

TOMATO  MARMALADE.— Boil  together  5  lbs.  each  of  to- 
matoes and  granulated  sugar,  1  good-sized  lemon  and  2  oranges, 
cut  in  very  small  pieces,  boil  the  tomatoes  and  fruits  together  until 
a  little  thick,  and  fruit  is  tender,  then  add  sugar,  just  let  it  boil  up, 
-and  can. — Mrs.  F.  Alexander,  Glenwood,  111. 

A  GOOD  PRESERVING  RECIPE.— Use  1  cup  water  to 
every  ^  lb.  sugar,  melt  and  let  boil  IS  minutes,  skim,  and  then  add 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  505 

1  lb,  fruit  for  each  ^  lb.  sugar.     Boil  briskly  for  7  or  8  minutes. — 
Mrs.  R.  A.  Watkins,  Oak  Forest,  111. 

APPLE  PRESERVE.— Take  equal  quantities  of  good  brown 
sugar  and  peeled  and  cored  apples,  cut  in  squares  or  long  slices. 
Make  a  syrup  of  1  pt.  of  water  to  3  lbs.  of  sugar,  boil  until  pretty 
thick,  then  add  the  apples,  the  grated  peel  of  1  or  2  lemons,  a 
little  whole  white  ginger.     Boil  until  the  apples   are   clear. — Mrs. 

C.  E.  Rennaker,  Chicago  Ridge,  111. 

PRESERVED  CHERRIES.— To  each  lb.  of  stoned  cherries 
use  ^  lb.  sugar  and  Yz  pt.  of  water.  Dissolve  sugar  in  the  water, 
add  the  fruit  and  let  it  boil  as  fast  as  possible  for  ^  hr.,  or  until 
it  begins  to  jelly.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  thicken,  put  in  pots  or 
earthen  jars,  and  cover  with  brandied  paper;  and  seal. — Mrs.  C.  A. 
Armstrong,  Oaklawn,  111. 

CITRON  PRESERVES.— Peel  citron,  slice  and  cut  in  squares 
on  a  bake  board.  Use  about  ^  lb,  sugar  to  1  lb,  citron,  mix  and 
let  stand  over  night,  the  sugar  will  melt  and  no  water  is  required 
to  cook  the  citron.  Add  ginger  root  and  sliced  lemons  to  taste 
for  flavoring.  Brown  sugar  makes  a  very  rich,  but  rather  dark, 
preserve.     Cook  slowly  for  2  or  3  hrs.,  or  until  transparent. — Mrs. 

D.  E,  Remley,  Willow  Springs,  111. 

GRAPE  PRESERVES.— 1  pt.  fruit,  Vk  pt.  sugar,  wash,  drain 
grapes,  remove  from  stems,  heat  to  'boiling  point;  wash  and  cook 
until  seeds  come  out;  strain  out  seeds  and  skins;  cook  10  minutes, 
measure,  add  sugar  and  boil  until  liquid  thickens.  Put  in  steril- 
ized jars. — Mrs.  Chas.  Kramer,  Sutton,  111. 

SPICED  GRAPES.— Boil  7  lbs.  grapes,  3  tablespoons  ground 
cinnamon.  When  pulp  and  skins  have  boiled  3  minutes,  add  4 
lbs.  sugar,  1  pt,  vinegar,  and  3  tablespoons  ground  spices,  tied  in  a 
piece  of  cheesecloth.  Cook  slowly  until  thickened.  Pour  into 
glasses  or  jars.  Serve  with  meats,  1  cup  grapes  equals  Vz  lb, — 
Mrs,  S,  A,  Perkins,  Palos  Park,  111, 

PRESERVED  ORANGE  PEEL.— Peel  the  oranges  and  cut 
rinds  into  narrow  shreds,  boil  till  tender,  change  the  water  three 
times,  squeeze  the  juice  of  orange  over  sugar,  put  lb,  to  lb,  of 
sugar  and  peel.  Boil  all  together  20  minutes, — Mrs,  Chas.  Kra- 
mer, Sutton,  111. 


506  CANNING,  PRESERVING  AND  PICKLING 

ORANGE  AND  RHUBARB  PRESERVE.— To  every  lb.  of 
r'hubarb  allow  3  or  4  Seville  oranges  and  1^  lbs.  v^rhite  sugar;  peel 
the  oranges  thinly  and  cut  them  into  strips  as  for  marmalade;  take 
off  the  white  pith,  which  will  not  be  needed,  remove  the  pips  from 
the  fruit  and  cut  into  slices  the  yellow  part  of  the  peel  also.  Place 
oranges,  rhubarb  and  sugar  in  preserving  pan  and  boil  gently  until 
sufficiently  cooked  and  the  scum  has  ceased  to  rise;  put  the  pre- 
serves in  small  pots  and  cover  while  hot  with  paper  brushed  over 
with  white  of  egg. — Mrs.  Chas.  Kramer,  Sutton,  111. 

PLUM  PRESERVES.— Scald  plums  and  strain;  add  an  equal 
weight  of  sugar  and  a  gill  of  water  to  each  lb.  of  fruit.  Boil  the 
sugar  and  water,  skim;  add  the  scalded  fruit.  Cook  214  hrs.,  and 
put  in  airtight  jars. — Mrs.  E.  D.  Blaine,  Belmont,  111. 

PEACH  PRESERVES.— Immerse  required  amount  of  peach- 
es in  boiling  water  and  rub  the  skins  off,  then  drop  in  cold  water 
to  prevent  discoloring.  To  each  3  lbs.  of  fruit  use  V  lb.  of  sugar 
and  1  pt.  of  water.  When  the  syrup  is  boiling  drop  the  peaches 
into  it.  Do  not  cook  too  many  at  once.  When  done,  fill  gla^s 
jars  to  the  brim.  Do  not  remove  the  stones  from  preserved 
peaches,  as  they  improve  the  flavor.  Cling  stone  peaches  make 
the  nicest  flavored  preserves.  The  wide-mouthed  jars  are  best  to 
use  for  the  whole  fruit. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S,  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

GINGER  PEARS. — 4  lbs.  hard  pears,  4  lbs.  sugar,  2  oz.  green 
ginger  root,  juice  of  2  lemons.  Cut  rind  of  lemons  in  long,  thin 
strips,  and  boil  until  tender.  Add  to  the  pears,  which  should  be 
cut  in  small,  thin  pieces.  Add  ginger  root,  scraped  and  chopped 
very  fine.  Add  small  cup  water  and  the  lemon  juice.  Cook  slowl^^ 
until  tender,  and  seal  hot. — Mrs.  Wm.  P;  Williams,  4463  Wood- 
lawn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

RHUBARB  AND  PINEAPPLE  PRESERVE.— Wash,  but  do 
not  peel,  8  lbs.  rhubarb,  or  cut  in  pieces  about  1  inch  long,  and  dry 
it;  slice  and  cut  in  small  pieces  1  pineapple,  and  boil  it  separately 
for  5^  hr,,  then  mix  with  rhubarb;  add  5  lbs,  sugar,  and  let  sim- 
mer till  cooked.  This  will  make  5  qts. — Mrs,  C.  C.  Chauncy,  Mt. 
Prospect,  111. 

TOMATO  PRESERVE.— Peel  and  stew  1  peck  ripe  tomatoes 
with  a  pt.  of  good  vinegar,  until  the  water  is   pretty  well  boiled 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  507 

•  '^  r,       \    '  '       ^      '■     .  ■  ' 

out  of  them;  add  ^  peck  ripe  apples,  ^  doz.  lemons,  2  oz.  whole 
ginger,  2  oz.  cinnamon.  Stew  until  all  are  tender,  add  1  lb.  sugar 
to  each  pt.  of  the  mixture,  and  boil  until  thick, — Mrs.  A.  L.  Lan- 
sing, Flossmore,  111. 

STRAWBERRY,  RASPBERRY  AND  BLACKBERRY  PRE- 
SERVES.— Pick  and  prepare  the  berries,  put  a  lb.  of  sugar  to  a  lb. 
of  fruit.  Let  stand  with  sugar  sprinkled  over  4  hrs.  Boil  J^  hr., 
slowly. — Mrs.  E.  L.  Matthews,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

PRESERVE   STRAWBERRIES   WITHOUT   COOKING.— 

After  the  berries  are  picked  over  put  them  into  a  stone  jar,  or 
granite  kettle,  and  mash  with  a  potato  masher,  add  %  lb.  sugar 
to  1  lb.  berries,  and  stir  well,  until  sugar  has  dissolved,  let  stand 
over  night,  and  put  into  sealers  in  the  morning.  This  will  keep 
for  a  year. — Mrs.  L.  E.  Mason,  Oak  Glen,  111. 

BORDEAUX  SAUCE  RECIPE.— 4  qts.  of  chopped  cabbage; 
2  qts.  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced,  1  doz.  large  onions,  sliced,  J^  oz. 
of  tumeric,  ^  oz.  of  ground  cloves,  J^  oz.  of  white  pepper,  %  of 
mustard  seed,  2  tablespoons  salt,  1%  cups  of  sugar,  lJ/2  qts.  of 
cider  vinegar.  Boil  slowly  for  40  minutes. — Mrs.  Mary  Law- 
rence, Chicago  Ridge,  111. 

CRAB^PLE  CATSUP.— Quartered  and  cored,  3  lbs.  crab- 
apples,  boil  with  about  1  cup  of  water,  and  rub  through  a  colander; 
then  add  1^  lbs.  sugar,  1  qt.  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  salt;  spice  to 
taste,  and  boil  till  thick. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Armstrong,  Oaklawn,  111. 

CRANBERRY  CATSUP.— Boil  ripe  cranberries  until  the 
juice  is  extracted  from  the  pulp,  strain  and  add  1  pt.  of  vinegar,  2 
lbs.  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cayenne  pepper,  black  pepper, 
allspice,  cloves  and  cinnamon;  boil  until  thick  enough  to  run  freely 
from  the  bottle  when  cold.  Put  into  jars  piping  hot,  and  cork 
tightly. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Remley,  Willow  Springs,  111. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP.— Grate  50  fair-sized  cucumbers;  let 
them  stand  in  a  colander  with  salt,  and  drain,  all  night.  Add,  not 
quite  a  peck  of  onions,  grated,  and  add  the  vinegar,  and  can,  leav- 
ing >^-inch  of  vinegar  on  top.  It  can  be  made  with  or  without 
horseradish. — ^Mrs.  C.  C.  Armstrong,  Oaklawn,  111. 

CURRANT  CATSUP.— Cover  wiih  vinegar  2  qts.  red  currants 
and  2  qts.  sugar;  add  1  tablespoon  cinnamen,  J/2  tablespoon  cloves, 


508  ^.-..,.>.-,o,  PRESER\.-..^  AND  PICKLING 


3^  taik^sspooa  ail<;pirr,  ^  tiMp*^r>rm  cacf^enne.     Boil  slowly  40  min- 
-Mrs.  D,  £.  Renlcy,  Willow  ^pri&g^s.  111. 


GOOSEBERRY  CATSUP.— Boil  8  lbs.  ripe  gv,u^c..crrie^  and 

4  lbs.  sugar  for  3  or  4  hrs,  in  1  pL  good  vinegar,  l^cn  add  '2  oz. 
cokIi  «i  ctoviB  and  cmnamon,  and  boil  a  little  more;  pour  through 
a  siere,  amd  hotdc — ^Mrs.  Gias.  Kramer,  Sutton,  IlL 

GRAPE  CATSUP.— Bool  5  lbs.  grapes  and  press  them  through 
a  rolafwW;  Add  2^2  lbs.  sagar,  1  pt.  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  each  of 
doves,  jUspiigy  aamamam,  salt  and  black  or  cayenne  pepper.  BoU 
tai  titick,  and  can.— Mrs.  £.  D.  Bkiae,  Bdraomt,  m. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. — Drain  I  cup  of  juice  irotm  1  can  of  to- 
acnd  add  1  cup  of  good  vin^ar;  place  on  the  stove  till  it 
Ae  JHiiliag  poM^  tbcB:  add  a  iazsc  tablespoon  of  brown 

cool  k  is  ready  to  use. — ^Mrs.  M,  E.  Holmes,  Homewood,  IlL 

VARIATION  L— BolL  2  doz.  ripe  tomatoes,  9  onions,  6 
api»lrs,  54  fi^  mixed  spices,  ^  gaL  vinegar,  ^  lb.  raisins,  and  salt 
to  taifcc;  l}i  ivs.  Stxain  and  add  1  lb.  hsamrm.  saexr,  1  cup  mustard, 
^ssoHvi^  aad  1  tablespoon  of  cayeane  pcfpcr.  Boil  ^  hr.,  and 
bottle— Mrs.  L.  R,  Ridley,  Tinley   Park,  IlL 

UNCOOKED  CHILI  SAUCE— Chop  together  1  small  onion 
and  1  large  green  pepper,  then  add  to  each  pt.  of  ripe 
tontatoei^  t^iafftrd^  dkof^  aeaia,  add  ^  cop  sugar,  1  pt.  vinegar,  2 
satall  Uiiiooiiii  doves  aad  aSs^kct,  2  large  teaspoons  cinnamon. 
It  is  ready  to  bottle  at  once. — Mrs.  F.  Alexander,  Glenwood,  111. 

CHOW-CHOW. — Ped  and  slice  25  large,  ripe  tomatoes,  chop 

5  naedBBB-siEcd  onions  fine,  and  4  small  green  peppers;  add  1  cup 
sugar,  2  tibirwpnoM  ok  salt,  1  teaspoon  each  ground  cinnamon,  ali- 
enee and  dores.  P^t  all  the  ingredients  into  a  porcelain  kettle 
aad  cook  for  1J4  hrs.  Can  while  hot, — ^Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Johnson,  219 
S.  9th  Ave.,  Maywood,  IB. 

VARIATION  L — ^Wipe  and  remove  skins  from  2  qts.  small 
gttXM.  tooBLtoes.  Wi3>e  aad  pare  12  small  cucumbers.  Wipe  3  red 
peppers.  ScaMy««  ^k  leaves  and  cut  ofF  the  stalk  of  1  cauliflower. 
Separate  2  bunches  of  celery,  and  remove  the  leaves.  Peel  1  pt. 
Rmiove  1^  uliiaii  ixoaa  2  qts.  of  green  or  wax 


COOK  COUNTY    "TO?:  BOOK  599 

b&am.  Cat  all  the  vegetables  in  =tna!"  p:e:r5.  :r,-er  wki  salt.  let 
>taii^  24  &T5..  dram.  To  I  saL  vimc^r  a^  j^  IIl.  hwUmij  seeii.  2 
ozL  taoBeric^  ^  oz.  eacic  q£  iWipiin,  p<r|pyu  aad  <J— cjl  Sna^  to  tjie 
&o^a^  ptm^  ai&i  wegctjiiieav  ^i£  let  aimiiiar  t9l  3o£l  1^  into  a 
5tooe  x*!"  or  crodL — Mrs^  BL  A^  WadkaBSy  O^  Forest.  IIL 

ly  witk  1  fiaUespoMB  of  feor^  'wiSe  A?;  fil  a  cap  3i£ 

imertagJt-  9l0<»fFr  ^  *inwi  lanvn^s;  aai  let  Mi  IBM  as  iftidt  as 
costziniL    ^r  nugiw  c  finm  tikr  frv  antf  atM  a  lEaEqMBm  <]€ 
Mfis.  Ciaaiiifiar  914  If^  5^  A'veu  Ma.f  wood^  Ilf. 


KIPS  CDdimER  PICKLESL— Peri  1  ^ok.  lars<e.  ripe  ra- 
ctmrbers.  zad  eat  arila  saiall  pieces^,  pat  Ik  a  Csr^e  staae  jar.  and 
?3^  ffiieiiiL  IdCt  ataarf  over  oagftC^  uuHfiei  pressareL  ^Gct  oiorrnngr 
drais  off  ^e  wTttsr,  and  w^pe  eadi  pnece  of  caEOHfter  wrtfr  a  dot^ 
Ihst  I  ^t-  wMie"  wime  liiiigar  and  the  2  Bis.  gtaBaiaAsi  sai^Ear  <Hi 

t^dWBe^om  whrik  denres  in  a  Ift^  cfesn.  fftna  dodL  smI  yat  arto 

— t™'^      ni€jB  anc  tne   cacaaaMZV  ana  von 
Have  tibe  Xasaai  ^L  jars 


faBL    TfccB  screw  om  tike  umeu!*-  ti^JEriL  fiff  prevent  anr  from 

9IGKLED  BXAHSL— 3  p&.  nmtjiar.  ?  As.  wiiifie  ss^sb-,  I  cnp 
uMHjLtfw,  1  cap  floun^  3  tabCespaoas  tefct  •  see<t^  S  tancspcwns  Lntu— 
tcic  Bcnl  Tf  star  aatS  i^jpili^,  'Ufees  stir  ts  1  pecfr^  ftatier  or  "wsx 
besns.  stning^  aid  Voflerf  ia  s^  -aafeer  aatH  t&er  are  tefnier. — Mrs. 
C.  C  C^jjiBMLw^  Kel  l^Qi^eclL.  tH. 


. — seiecr  ince»  ren.  neos^  anci  dch- 
utrttT  teiaier^  "Pluaeic  eae&  one  i  jiii  rtifj  afia  caU 
**tlt  joQr  haaife  S've'  a  fiKde  tarist  to  stt^p  aff  Ifte  ^kn.  Cat 
wise  iaC^  str^s.  Fbce  Acsc,.  aak  iao-  vlw&Jj^  ia  ^bss  rars.  lezrr- 
mg  raoaa  idbat  f&e  fiqanr  aja^^  saccaaMitf  cadk  faeti^  To  2  <|tSL  of 
vmesar  ana  ^  sis.  <sa  aKaana  saB^pxa^  ana  7%  ae^spaoa  ai  ama^  p^v*- 
^ered  Let  t&i^  beS;  arf^Kr  «JiSwMHg  aM  I  fiwiipaiiia  cack  <i>f 
chrres^  ^kpiccv.  iniiiiiiliaiiil  s  fiev  ticp|icii.ot] 
tiei  ia  a  b^L  Bail  ^^ia^  aifinr  *  ^Hle 
OTcr  Ae  beets.     Nca:t  dxr  4aia  off  1^  s^vap.  tiian^  tm  a 


510  CANNING,  PRESERVING  AND  PICKLING 

over  the  beets  again,  then  seal.     This  pickle  will  be  of  a  rich,  red 
color,  and  very  delicious. — Mrs.  Edgar  Wilkinson,  Palos,  111. 

MUSKMELON  PICKLE.— Pare  and  prepare  7  lbs.  of  musk- 
melon  that  are  turned  a  little  yellow  on  the  inside.  Let  come  to  a 
boil,  3  lbs.  of  light  brown  sugar,  1  pt.  vinegar,  and  a  little  stick 
cinnamon;  then  add  the  fruit,  and  boil  until  clear.  Will  be  ready 
for  use  in  2  weeks. — Mrs.  A.  L.  Lansing,  Flossmore,  111. 

PEAR  PICKLES. — Select  small,  round  ones,  remove  .the  blos- 
som end,  stick  them  with  a  fork.  Allow  to  each  qt.  of  pears  1  pt. 
of  cider  vinegar  and  1  cup  of  sugar;  put  in  a  teaspoon  allspice,  cin- 
namon and  cloves  to  boil  with  the  vinegar;  add  the  pear?  and  boil. 
and  seal  in  jars. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PICKLED  PEARS.— Boil  4  lbs.  sugar  and  1  qt.  vinegar; 
skim,  then  add  12  lbs.  pears  and  yi  oz.  whole  cloves,  5^  oz.  stick 
cinnamon,  peel  of  lemon;  boil  pears  till  tender,  then  put  in  jars; 
let  syrup  boil  a  little  longer,  then  pour  it  over  them. — Mrs,  E.  L. 
Mathews,  Chicago  Heights,  111. 

WATERMELON  PICKLES.— 10  lbs.  melon  rind,  boiled  in 
pure  water  until  tender;  drain  oflF  the  water  through  a  colander. 
Make  a  syrup  of  2  lbs.  of  white  sugar,  1  qt.  of  vinegar,  1  oz.  cinna- 
mon; pour  over  boiling  hot  3  days  in  succession. — Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

MOCK  MUSTARD  PICKLES.— Put  cucumbers  in  salt  over 
night,  then  bring  to  a  boil  and  remove  salt  water.  Take  cider 
vinegar  enough  to  cover  cucumbers,  after  ascertaining  quantity. 
Thicken  with  flour,  add  sugar,  ground  celery  seed  and  tumeric  to 
suit  flavor  and  shade  (color)  and  cook.  When  flour  is  cooked,  add 
cucumbers,  take  from  fire  and  can. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Rennaker,  Chicago 
Ridge,  111. 

DEVILED  APPLES.— For  this  relish  use  the  sourest  apples 
procurable.  Peel,  core  and  slice  into  a  little  cold  water.  Add 
equal  weight  apples  and  water,  of  light  brown  sugar.  To  a  peck 
of  apples  allow  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  3  lemons,  2  oz.  of 
finely  grated  ginger,  and  2  teaspoons  of  paprika.  Boil  together 
until  the  apples  look  transparent,  then  seal,  while  hot,  in  jars. 
This  is  fine  to  serve  with  meat- — Mrs.  C.  A.  Armstrong,  Oaklawn, 
III 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  511 

SPICED  PEACHES  (PICKLED).— Scald  3  lbs.  of  sugar,  1 
pt.  of  vinegar,  2  oz.  of  cinnamon,  Yt.  oz.  of  cloves;  pour  over  7  lbs. 
of  fruit,  let  it  stand  24  hrs.,  then  drain;  scald  again,  pour  over  the 
fruit,  fetting  it  stand  for  another  24  hrs.  Boil  all  together  till  fruit 
is  tender,  skim  it  and  boil  liquor  until  thick,  pour  over  the  fruit, 
and  set  away  in  jars. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

SWEET  CUCUMBER  PICKLES.— Soak  whole  cucumbers  3 
days  in  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  ^ZZ-  Then  soak  in  clear 
water  for  3  days,  changing  often.  Cut  in  chunks,  cook  2  hrs.,  in 
vinegar  and  water  with  grape  leaves  and  1  teaspoon  of  powdered 
alum.  Make  a  syrup  of  3  lbs.  of  sugar,  3  pts.  of  vinegar  to  each  7 
lbs.  of  cucumbers,  add  1  oz.  of  cassia  buds,  1  oz.  whole  allspice,  1 
oz.  celery  seed.  Boil  well  and  then  add  the  chunks  of  cucumber. 
Boil  a  few  minutes.  Let  stand  till  the  next  day,  then  draw  ofP 
the  syrup,  heat  it  up  and  pour  over  the  pickles,  and  boil  down. — 
Mrs.  D.  E.  Remley,  Willow  Springs,  111. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE.— Slice  10  lbs.  green  tomatoes 
and  put  in  layers,  sprinkling  salt  on  each  layer,  let  it  stand  all 
night;  next  day  drain  from  salt  and  add  2  qts.  vinegar,  2  lbs.  onions, 
thinly  sliced,  2  teaspoons  cayenne,  2  lbs.  brown  sugar,  ^  oz.  of 
cloves,  J4  oz.  cinnamon,  Y^  oz.  black  peppercorns.  Tie  these  spices 
in  a  piece  of  muslin  and  boil  slowly,  until  the'tomatoes  and  onions 
are  tender.  This  pickle  will  keep  an  indefinite  length  of  time. — 
Mrs.  Chas.  Kramer,  Sutton,  111. 

RED  CABBAGE  PICKLES.— Chop  fine  1  qt.  red  cabbage,  1 
qt.  boiled  red  'beets,  1  cup  horseradish,  grated,  1  qt.  vinegar,  1  cup 
sugar.  Sprinkle  a  little  salt  on  cabbage.  Put  sugar  in  vinegar  and 
let  simmer  on  fire,  then  let  stand  to  cool  before  adding  the  cab- 
bage.— ^Mrs.  E.  D.  Blaine,  Belm.ont,  111. 

SEVEN  DAY  PICKLE.— Cut  the  cucumbers  fresh  from  the 
vine  and  put  into  a  crock;  add  a  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  pour  over 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover;  drain  each  morning  and  add  fresh 
salt  and  boiling  water  for  seven  mornings;  drain  again  and  scald 
in  weak  vinegar.  Put  in  jars  and  pour  over  the  following  prepara- 
tion: 1  qt.  of  vinegar,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons  mixed 
spice,  boil  together,  and  when  cool  pour  over  the  pickle.     If  on- 


512  CANNING,  PRESERVING  AND  PICKLING 

ions  are  desired,  use  small  ones,  and  scald  in  weak  vinegar,  and 
mix  with  the  cucumbers. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Holmes,  Homewood,  III. 

CORN  RELISH. — 2  doz,  ears  of  corn,  1  head  cabbage,  4  green 
peppers,  1  red  pepper,  4  large  onions.  Cut  corn  off  cob  and  chop 
fine.  Other  ingredients:  Mix  with  1  qt.  vinegar,  %  cup  flour,  3  cups 
sugar,  %  cup  salt,  2  oz.  dry  mustard,  1  teaspoon  tumeric.  Boil  30 
minutes,  and  add  2  teaspoons  celery  seed, — Mrs.  N.  Williams,  4548 
Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

CUCUMBER  RELISH.— 2  doz.  large  cucumbers,  sliced  and 
grated,  J^  cup  salt.  Put  into  cheesecloth  and  drain  over  night.  In 
the  morning  add  J^  cup  sugar,  tablespoon  mustard  seed,  1  table- 
spoon celery  seed,  1  qt.  vinegal*,  and  mix.  Put  up  in  self-sealing 
jars  of  bottles. — Mrs.  N.  Williams,  4548  Prairie  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

GREEN  TOMATO  RELISH.— Wash  and  put  through  a. 
coarse  meat  chopper  J/4  peck  green  torhatoes,  6  medium-sized  on- 
ions, 2  green  sweet  peppers  (seeds  removed).  Heat,  and  add  2 
cups  white  wine  vinegar,  3  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
celery  seed,  1  tablespoon  ground  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  allspice,  1 
teaspoon  salt;  then  add  the  vegetables,  and  boil  until  they  are  soft. 
Put  into  pt.  jars,  and  seal  tight. — Mrs.  L.  R.  Ridley,  Tinley  Park, 
111. 


PIES  AND  PASTRY 


PIE  CRUST. — Take  one-half  as  much  shortening  as  flour.  Rub 
the  shortening  into  the  flour  and  mix  with  cold  water  till  very  dry 
and  stiff.  For  1  pie  with  double  crust  take  1  cup  flour  and  y^  cup 
shortening. — Mrs.  G.  R.  Thornton,  306  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— For  2  pies  mix  together  2  cups  flour,  4  table- 
spoons of  lard  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  in  the  lard,  unmelted, 
using  the  hands;  add  about  V2  cup  of  cold  water,  or  enough  to 
just  about  absorb  the  flour,  but  not  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Handle 
lightly,  knead  very  little,  roll  bottom  crust  thicker  than  top. — Mrs. 
Frank  R.  Webber,  1001  S.  7.th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BAKED  CRUST. — Prepare  pastry  according  to  directions  for 
apple  pie.  Invert  a  pie  tin  and  cover  with  the  paste.  Prick  all 
over  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Baked  crusts  may  be 
'filled  with  chocolate  or  cream  filling,  or  cranberry,  apple  or  other 
fruit  sauce.  Individual  crusts  may  be  filled  with  jam  or  jelly,  as 
tarts. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Rennaker,  Chicago  Ridge,  111. 

BOILED  CRUST.— Pass  6  oz.  of  flour,  J^  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder,  and  a  pinch  of  salt  through  a  sieve.  Rub  in  3  oz.  of  but- 
ter, add  a  small  teacup  of  milk,  gradually,  and  mix  into  a  stiff 
paste.  Roll  out  and  use  as  directed. — Mrs.  Roger  Rawlin^s,  Chi- 
cago Heights,  111. 

MERINGUE. — 1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar  to  each  white  of 
egg,  Vi  teaspoon  of  flavoring  to  each  t%z,  lemon  or  orange  juice  or 
extract  vanilla  or  any  of  the  desired  flavoring.  Beat  whites  of 
eggs  until  stiff;  add  sugar,  gradually,  then  flavoring. — Mrs.  L.  E. 
Mason.  Oak  Glen,  111. 

ALEXANDRA  PIE. — Cream  together  1  <tz^,  1  small  cup  su- 
gar, 1  cup  raisins,  add  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinna- 
mon and  cloves,  a  little  nutmeg,  pinch  salt;  stir  all  well  together, 
fill  a  crust  and  cover  with  another,  and  bake. — Mrs.  Oscar  Hansen, 
Glenwood,  111. 

513 


514  PIES  AND  PASTRY 

APPLE  PIE. — Line  plate  with  paste,  pare,  core  and  cut  1  sour 
apple  into  8th  or  16ths;  put  row  around  plate  ^  inch  from  edge, 
work  towards  center  until  plate  is  covered,  pile  on  remainder,  mix, 
and  add  Ij^  tablespoons  sugar,  speck  of  nutmeg  or  cinnamon,  salt; 
dot  with  %  teaspoon  butter,  wet  edge  of  under  crust,  cover  with 
top,  bake  in  hot  oven  for  45  minutes. — Mrs.  Frances  Hines,  Tinley 
Park,  111. 

APPLE  ,CUSTARD  PIE.— Grate  1  large  apple  or  2  small 
ones;  add  J^  cup  sugar,  or  more  if  apples  are  tart,  as  quickly  as 
possible,  to  keep  from  getting  dark;  add  1  beaten  tgg^  salt  and 
nutmeg,  and  thin  to  proper  consistency  with  sweet  milk;  pour 
into  pie  crust  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Mary  Kemp,  Tin- 
ley  Park,  111. 

DUTCH  APPLE  PIE.— 4  sour  apples,  2  tablespoons  sugar. 
Sift  together  a  ^  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  pov/der,  and  ^ 
teaspoon  salt,  and  rub  in. 4  tablespoons  butter;  beat  1  Ggg;  add  to 
y^  cup  milk;  stir  into  the  above  and  put  in  a  deep  pie-plate;  core, 
quarter  and  partly  rub  apples  in  the  batter,  sprinkle  sugar  on  ap- 
ples only.  Bake  15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  and  serve  with  lemon 
sauce. — Mrs.  Mary  Kemp,  Tinley  Park,  111. 

CREAMED  APPLE  SAUCE  PIE.— Bake  a  single  crust,  spread 
with  well-sweetened  apple-sauce,  beaten  light;  cover  with  whipped 
cream;  lay  on  the  baked  upper  crust,  and  sprinkle  powdered  sugar 
on  top.  You  may  substitute  a  meringue  of  frothed  whites,  slightly 
sweetened,  for  the  cream,  spreading  the  same  upon  the  top  crust. — 
Mrs.  Jas.  Jordan,  Worth,  111. 

GRATED  SWEET  APPLE  PIE.— 1  scant  cup  of  raw,  grated, 
sweet  apple,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  nearly  1  pt.  of  rich  milk  (or  part 
of  cream),  a  pinch  of  cinnamon,  and  sweetened  to  taste.  Bake  in 
1  crust,  slowly,  until  well  done. — ^Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

CREAMED  SWEET  APPLE  PIE.— Pare,  core  and  quarter 
Campfield  pound  or  other  sweet  apples.  Put  them  into  a  pudding 
■  dish  with  a  few  spoons  of  water  to  prevent  burning,  cover  closely, 
and  cook  until  tender,  but  not  broken.  Add  2  tablespoons  of 
sugar  to  each  cup,  and  let  them  get  cold  in  the  syrup.  Then  cut 
into  thin  slices  or  tiny  dice.  Roll  out  some  pufif  paste  quite  thin; 
line  a  pie-plate,  sprinkle  with  flour,  lay  on  another  crust  and  bake 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  515 

until  brown.  When  ready  to  serve  open  the  crusts,  spread  the 
lower  one  with  the  stewed  apple,  cover  with  whipped  cream,  put 
on  the  top  crust  and  sprinkle  that  with  pow^dered  sugar. — Mrs.  L. 
Povvcl,  Oaklawn,  III. 

GERMAN  APPLE  PIE.— Line  a  pie  pan  with  paste,  lay  in 
side  by  side  tart  quartered  apples,  sprinkle  over  this  Yi  cup  flour, 
y^  cup  sugar,  Yz  cup  sour  cream.  Bake  a  rich  brown  without  up- 
per crust. — Mrs.  M.  Myers,  Lewellyn,  111. 

MEXICAN  APPLE  PIE.— Line  plate  with  pie  crust,  cover 
with  quartered  tart  apples,  hollow  side  up,  fill  with  sugar  and  put 
bits  of  butter  over,  put  sweet  cream  over  top  of  sugar;  grated  nut- 
meg last.  Bake  till  apples  are  tender. — Mrs,  F.  L.  Myers,  Floss- 
more,  111. 

APPLE  MERINGUE  PIE.— Slice  and  stew  ripe,  tart  apples; 
run  through  the  colander  or  vegetable  press  into  the  bowl.  Sweet- 
en plentifully,  and  beat  in,  while  hot,  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  Have 
ready  buttered  pie-plates  lined  with  pufif  paste;  when  the  sauce  is 
cold  fill  these  shells  with  it  and  bake  until  very  light.  Cover  with 
meringue,  slightly  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla  or  other 
essence;  set  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  until  the  meringue  begins  to 
color.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  all.  East  cold. — Mrs,  W.  H.  Nep- 
per,  Thornton,  111. 

APPLE  POT  PIE.— Select  8  apples,  cut  in  8ths,  remove  core 
but  not^  skin,  take  1  ^^^,  Va  cup  rich  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  enough 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  paste,  roll  out  very  thin,  cut  in.to  2-inch 
squares,  put  butter  size  of  a  small  egg  into  a  kettle,  when  a  deli- 
cate brown  remove  to  back  of  stove;  now  put  in  a  layer  of'  ap- 
ples, a  layer  of  rolled  paste,  a  little  brown  sugar,  a  pinch  of  cin- 
namon; repeat.  Over  this  pour  boiling  water,  and  cook  for  20 
minutes.     Serve  hot. — Mrs.  J,  H.  Nathan,  Glenwood,  111. 

BANANA  PIE. — 2  cups  banana  pulp  pressed  through  a 
sieve;  add  ^  cup  sugar,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1 
teaspoon  butter,  2  egg  yolks,  ^  cup  of  rich  milk  or  cream,  sprin- 
kle with  cinnamon,  bake,  and  cover  with  meringue, — Mrs.  Geo. 
S.  Piper,  Worth,  111. 

BLACKBERRY  PIE.-^Pick  over  and  wash  Ij^  cups  berries. 
Stew  until  soft  wkh  enough  water  to  prevent  burning.    Add  sugar 


516  PIES  AND  PASTRY  ' 

to  taste,  and  %  teaspoon  salt.  Line  plate  with  paste,  put  on  a 
rim,  fill  with  berries  (which  have  been  cooled);  arrange  six  strips 
pastry  across  the  top,  cut  same  width  as  rim;  put  on  an  upper 
rim.  Bake  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Perkins, 
Spaulding,  111. 

NEW  ENGLAND  BLUEBERRY  PIE.— Wash  and  dredge 
blueberries  with  flour;  then  scatter  among  them  ^  cup  of  sugar 
for  each  pt.  of  berries.  Fill  paste  shells  with  this,  dot  with  butter, 
cover  with  another  crust  and  bake.  These  are  richer  than  huckle- 
berry or  blueberry  pies,  when  made  in  the  usual  way.,  the  flour* 
thickening  the  juice  slightly  and  with  butter  tempering  the  acid. — 
Mrs.  R.  H.  Pennington,  Oaklawn,  111. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE.— Cream  together  2  beaten  egg  yolk?. 
1  cup  brown  sugar  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour;  add  to  a  pt.  of  milk 
brought  to  a  boil  in  a  double  boiler;  cook  till  thick,  stirring  occa- 
sionally. Put  into  a  baked  crust  and  cover  the  top  Vv-ith  the  2 
beaten  whites,  to  which  1  teaspoon  of  sugar  has  been  added. 
Brown  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Hamilton,  508  S.  4tli  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111 

CARROT  PIE. — 2  cups  mashed,  boiled  carrots,  1  cup  granu- 
lated sugar,  3  well-beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  each  ground  cinnamon 
and  ginger,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  hot  oven  without  upper 
crust.  This  is  very  much  like  pumpkin  pie. — Mrs.  R.  II.  Penning- 
ton, Oaklawn,  111. 

CHERRY  PIE.— Line  your  pie-plate  with  good  crust,  fill  half 
full  with  ripe  cherries;  sprinkle  over  them  about  a  cup  of  sugar,  1 
teaspoon  of  sifted  flour,  dot  a  few  bits  of  butter  over  that.  Then 
fill  the  crusts  full  to  the  top.  Cover  with  the  upper  crust,  and 
bake.  Stone  the  cherries. — Mrs.  Conkl:n,  914  N'.  5th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

MOCK  CHERRY  PIE.— 2^  cups  cr.inbernes,  H  cup  sugar, 
3  tablespoons  cracker  crumbs,  H  cup  seeded  raisins,  7  cups  water. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Chop  cranberries  and  raisins  togetherT  add 
water,  and  cook  slightly,  add  sugar  and  crumbs,  cooking  till  well 
mixed;  when  cool,  add  vanilla,  a^id  just  before  serving  put  between 
baked  crusts  or  cover  with  baked  lattice  crust.  This  makes  a  large 
quantity. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  517 

CHOCOLATE  PIE.— Mix  together  1  cup  sugar,  2  heaping 
tablespoons  of  flour,  4  tablespoons  .  of  grated  chocolate  and  a 
pinch  of  salt;  add  a  pt.  of  water  or  milk  or  equal  parts  of  water 
and  milk,  a  lump  of  butter,  2  beaten  eggs,  flavoring  to  taste.  Cook 
in  a  double  boiler  till  it  thickens.  Pour  into  a  baked  crust. — Jes- 
sie Clevenger,  Carlonville,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— 2  cups  milk,  2  tablespoons  f^ratcd  choc- 
olaite,  ^  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Heat  2  tablespoons  grated 
chocolate  and  2  cups  milk  together,  add  the  sugar  and  yolks  to- 
gether, beaten  to  a  cream.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  with  under 
crust.  Spread  meringue  of  the  white  over  the  top. — Mrs.  Geo.  S, 
Piper,  Worth,  111. 

COCOANUT  PIE.— Mix  the  yolk  of  3  eggs  and  1  teacup  of 
sugar,  stir  in  1  pt.  of  milk,  add  1  grated  cocoanut  (if  prepared  co- 
coanut  is  used,  take  1  teacup),  filling  the  pan  even  full,  and  bake. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  froth,  stirring  in  3  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
pour  over  pie,  and  bake  to  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N. 
5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CONVERT  PIE.— Cook  Yz  cup  macaroni  until  tender,  scald 
1  cup  of  cream  and  add  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  each  of 
bread  crumbs  and  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  red  or  green  pepper,  ^ 
cup  grated  cheese,  2  eggs,  and  1  small  teaspoon  salt. 

Oyster  Sauce. — Rub  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  1  of  butter 
smooth;  add  1  cup  hot  milk,  pinch  of  pepper  and  Yz  teaspoon  of 
salt.  When  thick  add  1  small  can  oysters,  and  pour  over  pie. — 
Mrs.  Frederic  Sharp,  700  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CRABAPPLE  PIE.— Quarter  and  core,  but  do  not  pare,  Si- 
berian crabapples.  Make  a  pie  as  for  ordinary  apples,  addmg 
about   1   cup  of  sugar. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,   111. 

CRANBERRY  PIE.— Put  into  a  dish  or  basin  1  coffee  cup  of 
split  cranberries;  add  1  cup  of  white  sugar,  Yz  cup  of  water,  1 
tablespoon  of  sifted  flour;  stir  all  together,  and  put  into  crust. 
Cover  with  an  upper  crust. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

CREAM  PIE. — 1  cup  new  milk,  1  dessertspoon  of  corn 
starch,  yolks  of  2  eggs;  beat  yolks  of   eggs  and   corn   starch   to- 


5-18  PIES  AND  PASTRY 

gether,  stir  into  milk,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  flavor  with  vanilla; 
allow  to  boil  until  eggs  and. starch  are  cooked,  then  cool  and  put 
into  a  pie  shell,  which  is  baked  and  cool  beforehand.  Then 
beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  with  ^  cup  of  granulated  sugar. 
Spread  over  the  pie  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  3  minutes. — 
Mrs.  Geo.  S.  Piper,  Worth,  111. 

BANANA  CREAM  PIE.— Put  into  a  double  boiler  a  cream 
filling  made  with  1  pt.  water  or  milk  or  equal'  parts  of  each,  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  flour 
and  sugar,  and  flavoring  to  taste.  While  this  is  cooking  slice  2 
large  bananas  into  a  baked  crust  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Pour 
filling  over  when  thick,  and  cover  with  meringue. — Jessie  Cleven- 
ger,  Carlonville,  111. 

DATE  CREAM  PIE.— Bake  a  rich  crust  in  a  deep  pie-plate 
or  tin,  pricking  it  to  prevent  blistering.  To  each  8-inch  plate 
allow  V/i  cups  stoned  and  chopped  dates,  mixed  with  suffi'cient 
sweetened  and  flavored  whipped  cream  to  fill.  Cover  the  top 
with  a  meringue,  browned  lightly.  When  cold,  dot  with  bits  of 
bright  red  jelly. — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

CREAM  PEACH  PIE.— Line  a  pie-pan  with  rich  paste;  peel, 
halve  and  seed  peaches  enough  to  fill  the  pan;  mix  2  tablespoons 
of  flour  with  1  cup  of  sugar  and  sprinkle  over  the  peaches;  fill 
the  pan  with  thick,  sweet  cream  and  bake  till  done.  Canned 
peaches  or  apples  cut  in  eighths  may  be  used. — Eloise  Jennings, 
Winnetka,  111. 

GERMAN  CREAM  PIE.— 1^  cups  of  milk  or  cream,  3  round- 
ing tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  3  yolks  of  eggs,  1^ 
teaspoons  vanilla.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  meringue, 
whites  of  3  eggs,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Bake 
crust  first,  then  add  filling,  then  meringue,  and  brown  lightly. — 
Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CUSTARD  PIE.— Beat  together  3  tablespoons  of  flour  and  1 
tablespoon  of  sugar;  add  3  beaten  eggs,  reserving  the  white  of  1 
for  the  top,  3  cups  milk,  and  grated  nutmeg.  Put  into  a  baked 
crust  in  a  deep  tin.  When  done  and  nicely  browned,  beat  whites 
to  a  froth  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  cocoanut,  and  place  on  top; 
brown.— Mrs.  C.  K.  Wurtz,  216  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  519 

FANCY  PIE. — 1  cup  of  any  kind  of  fruit,  1  cup  of  sugar,  yolk 
of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  water,  1  tablespoon  of  flour.  Bake  in 
open  crust.  Beat  the  whites  stiff,  with  4  spoons  of  sugar  added. 
Frost,  and  brown  slightly. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  III. 

FRUIT  PIE.— Must  be  baked  in  2  qt.  metal  basin  to  give  it 
the  right  shape;  the  basin  must  be  of  nearly  the  same  size,  top 
and  bottom;  first  make  a  nice  pie  crust,  put  a  layer  of  it  in  the  bot- 
tom, but  not  around  the  side  of  the  dish;  then  a  layer  of  chopped 
sour  apples,  2  inches  thick;  a  layer  of  chopped  raisins;  sprinkle 
sugar  over  this,  pieces  of  butter  any  size  you  like — cloves  and 
nutmeg  are  nice;  another  layer  of  crust,  fruit,  etc.  Put  a  crust  on 
top,  bake  slowly  for  2  hrs.;  when  done  turn  bottom  upwards  on  a 
plate,  and  before  putting  it  on  the  table,  sprinkle  fine  sugar  over 
it.  It  is  quite  as  good  when  warmed  again  as  when  first  baked. 
It  requires  1  lb.  of  raisins,  10  or  12  good-sized  apples,  2  large 
cups  of  sugar. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Rennaker,  Chicago  Ridge,  111. 

GOOSEBERRY  PIE.— Wash  the  gooseberries  and  pour 
enough  boiling  water  over  to  cover  them.  Let  stand  a  few 
minutes,  and  then  drain.  Line  your  pie-plates  with  pastr}',  fill 
them  with  fruit,  and  add  ^  lb;  of  sugar  to  a  pt.  of  fruit;  sprinkle 
flour  over  the  top,  and  cover  with  the  top  crust;  leave  an  opening 
in  the  center. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

GRAPE  PIE. — Pop  the  pulp  out  Into  one  dish,  and  put  the 

skin  into  another.     Then  simmer  the  pulp  a  little  over  the  fire  to 

soften  it;  remove,  and  rub  it  through  a  colander  to  separate  from 

the   seeds.     Then  put  the   skin   and   pulp   together,   and   the3'-   are 

ready  for  pies. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  III. 

* 

HUCKLEBERRY  PIE.— 1  pt.  of  canned  or  fresh  huckleber- 
ries, 2  heaping  teaspoons  of  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  mixed  with  flour, 
1  tablespoon  vinegar  or  2  of  cider;  bake  in  2  crusts. — Mrs.  G.  W. 
Perkins,  Spaulding,  111. 

JELLY  PIE. — Cream  together  Yi  cup  of  butter  and  1  small 
cup  sugar,  add  V2  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  4 
tablespoons  of  jelly.  Beat  all  together  and  bake  in  a  thin  crust. 
Cover  with  meringue,  made  of  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  Yz  cup  of 


5'20  PIES  AND  PASTRY 

sugar,  return  the  pie  to  the  oven  and  brown  lightly. — Eloise  Jen- 
nings, Winnetka,  III. 

LEMON  PIE. — Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  large  lemon,  1  cup 
sugar,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  (rounded)  flour,  1  cup  milk,  put  the 
sugar  into  the  yolk,  and  beat,  add  flour  and  beat  again;  add  milk, 
fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  being  careful  not  to  beat  the 
mixture  after  the  whites  are  added.  Bake  as  a  custard;  the  whites 
rise  to  the  top  while  baking  and  form  a  sort  of  meringue.  Waf<^r 
may  be  used  instead  of  milk^  if  strong  taste  of  lemon  is  desired. — 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Nathan,  Glenwood,  111. 

LEMON  PIE  WITH  TWO  CRUSTS.— Beat  2  eggs  light, 
and  stir  into  them  2  cups  of  sugar;  add  a  pt.  of  water,  3  table- 
spoons of  cracker-dust,  the  same  quantity  of  flour,  rubbed  to  a 
paste  with  a  little  cold  water,  the  grated  rind  of  one  and  the 
juice  of  2  lemons.  Beat  hard,  add  a  pinch  each  of  cinnamon 
and  nutmeg,  and  turn  the  mixture  into  pie-plates  lined  with  pas. 
try.  Cover  with  an  upper  crust,  cut  gashes  in  this  for  the  escape 
of  the  steam,  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven  for  40  minutes. — Mrs.  W. 
H.  Nepper,  Thornton,  111. 

LEMON  PIE  WITHOUT  LEMONS.— Beat  yolks  of  2 
eggs  (save  whites  for  frosting)  with  ^  cup  sugar  until  smooth. 
Then  stir  in  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  and  add  2  heaping  table- 
spoons of  flour,  and  stir  until  thoroughly  mixed  together;  add  1 
cup  of  boiling  water,  stir  well,  then  set  over  fire  until  thickened. — 
Mrs.  F.  L.  Myers,  Flossmore,  111. 

MARLBOROUGH  PIE.— 1  pt.  strained  apple,  1  pt.  of  sugar, 
lYz  nutmegs,  V2  pt.  of  cream  or  Yz  pt.  of  milk,  and  melt  in  it  % 
lb.  of  butter,  1  lemon,  juice,  grated  rind  and  pulp,  and  4  eggs. 
Bake  in  1  crust  for  ^  hr.  in  deep  dishes.  (Half  this  rule  makes 
2  pies.) — Eloise  Jennings,  Winnetka,  111. 

MINCE  MEAT.— Mix  together  IY2  cups  ground,  cooked  beef, 
1  cup  ground  suet,  5  cups  chopped  raisins,  4  cups  currants,  6  oups 
chopped  apples,  1  qt.  boiled  cider  or  fruit  juice,  1  pt.  of  water.  1 
cup  ground  or  chopped  figs,  1  cup  ground  or  chopped  dates,  H 
cup  ground  or  chopped  raw  orange  peeling,  3  cups  "brown  sugar, 
a  little  salt,  spices  to  taste.     Fill  a  pie-plate  lined  with  pie  paste. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  521 

and  cover  with  a  top  crust.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  M. 
Myers,  Lewellyn,  111. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE.— 8  crackers,  rolled  fine,  2  eggs.  1  cup 
of  sugar,  ^  cup  of  vinegar,  1  cup  of  molasses,  J/^  cup  of  boiling 
water,  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  cloves,  cassia,  nutmeg. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

NUT  MINCE  PIE.— 1  cup  of  walnut  meats,  2  cups  of  apples, 
cut  fine,  J^  cup  of  vinegar,  Y^  cup  of  water  or  fruit  juice,  J^  cup 
of  sugar,  1  cup  of  raisins,  J^  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  J4  teaspoon 
of  allspice,  j^  teaspoon  of  cloves,  y^  teaspoon  of  salt.  The  spices 
and  the  sugar  are  mixed,  then  add  all  the  other  ingredients.  Di- 
vide into  two  pie-plates,  lined  with  pastry,  cover  with  a  top  crust 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  L.  Powell,  Oaklawn,  111. 

CREAMED  PEACH  PIE.— Peel,  stone  and  halve  ripe  peach- 
es. Line  a  deep  pie-plate  with  puff  paste,  and  lay  the  peaches 
in  this.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar  and  fit  on  an  upper  crust. 
Have  ready  and  cold,  a  cream  sauce,  made  by  scalding  Yi  pt. 
of  milk,  and  thicken  it  with  a  tablespoon  of  corn  starch,  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  the 
frothed  white  of  1  t^^.  Boil  together  for  5  minutes,  and  set  aside 
to  cool.  When  the  pie  is  done,  carefully  lift  the  top  crust  and 
fill  the  pie  to  overflowing  with  the  cream  sauce.  Replace  the 
crust,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and 
eat  very  cold. — Mrs.  Jas.  Jordan,  Worth,  111. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE.— Beat  half  the  weight  of  a  pineapple  in 
butter  to  a  creamy  froth;  add  its  weight  in  sugar,  also  the  yolks 
of  5  eggs,  continue  to  beat  till  very  light;  add  1  cup  of  cream,  1 
grated  pineapple,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Bake  with  an  under  crust. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

PLUM  PIE. — Make  crust  as  for  custard  pie.  Quarter  and  pit 
plums,  and  lay  them  on  the  crust  thick.  Beat  1  ^^^  and  put  a 
little  milk  with  it,  well  beaten.  Add  1  cup  of  sugar,  some  cinna- 
mon, and  a  little  piece  of  butter.  Pour  over  plums,  and  bake. — 
Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Stew  plums  or  damsons  in  only  just  enough 
water  to  keep   them  from  burning;   when  tender  and   while   hot 


£'22  PIES  AND  PASTRY 

sweeten  them  with  sugar,  and  when  they  are  cold  pour  them  inlo 
pie-dishes,  lined  with  paste,  dredge  flour  over  them,  put  on  h  top 
crust  with  a  slit  in  the  center,  wet  and  pinch  together  the  edges 
of  the  crust,  and  bake  1  hr. — Mrs.  Oscar  Hansen,  Glenwood,  111. 

POTATO  PIE. — 1  cup  grated  potatoes,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup 
boiling  water,  juice  and  rind,  grated,  of  1  lemon,  butter  size  of  an 
egg;  boil  all  together  until  thick,  then  put  into  pie  crust  and  cover 
just  as  you  would  any  other  pie. — Mrs.  Jas.  Jordan,  Worth,  III. 

PRUNE  PIE  (Chicopee,  Mass.,  Recipe). — Let  M  lb.  prunes 
soak  in  cold  water  over  night;  stew  until  tender,  let  cool,  and 
remove  the  stones.  Arrange  them  in  a  crust,-  add  J^  cup  sugar,  2 
tablespoons  butter,  juice  of  J^^  a  lemon,  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 
salt,  and  juice  from  the  prunes,  which  should  have  been  reduced 
in  cooking  the  prunes. — Mabel  Sturtevant,  105  S.  Dearborn  St., 
Chicago,  111. 

PUMPKIN  OR  SQUASH  PIE.— Peel,  cut  in  small  squares, 
cook  in  hot  water  just  enough  to  cover,  till  soft.  Run  through 
a  colander.  1^  cups  of  squash  are  enough  for  1  pie.  Sweeten 
to  taste,  add  a  little  ginger,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  a  pinch  of  baking  soda.  Put  into  a  pie  crust  and  bake  in 
the  oven.— Mrs.  F.  E.  Glower,  1103  S.  7th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

QUAKER  PIE.— Yolk  of  1  egg,  ^  cup  sweet  milk  or  water, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Make  batter  to  drop  stiff  from  spoon. 
Grease  deep  pic-plate,  spread  on  the  batter  and  cover  with  stewed 
apples,  and  bake. 

Sauce. — White  of  1  egg,  butter  and  sugar,  creamed  together. — 
Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

QUINCE  PIE. — Line  plate  with  paste,  slice  in  the  quince, 
and  sweeten  to  taste.  They  require  lots  of  sugar.  Place  dots  of 
butter  on  top,  cover  with  a  top  crust,  and  bake. — Mrs.  Mary 
Kemp,  Tinley  Park,  111. 

RAISIN  PIE. — Mix  together  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  cup 
sugar,  1  cup  milk  or  cream,  1  egg,  2  teaspoons  vinegar,  cinnamon 
and  cloves  to  taste.  Bake  with  upper  crust. — Mrs.  Frederic 
Sharp,  700  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  523 

LEMON  RAISIN  PIE.— 1  cup  seeded,  chopped  raisins,  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  1  cup  of  cold  water,  1  tablespoon 
of  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  butter.  Stir  lightly  to- 
gether and  bake  with  upper  and  under  crusts. — Mrs,  Conklin,  914 
N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

RASPBERRY  CREAM  PIE.— Rub  Yz  cup  each  of  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  smooth  cream;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  a 
large  tablespoon  of  raspberry  jam  and  J^  cup  of  thick,  .-.weet 
cream.  Line  a  small  pie-plate  with  puflf  paste,  bake  the  paste 
and  cook  the  mixture  in  a  double  boiler;  put  it  in  the  paste,  when 
done,  and  make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  stifT 
with  a  little  fine  sugar;  spread  on  the  top,  and  brown, — Eloise 
Jennings,   Winnetka,   111. 

RHUBARB  OR  PIE-PLANT  PIE.— Pour  boiling  water  over 
2  cups  of  chopped  pie-plant,  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  drain  off 
the  water,  and  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  yolks  of 
2  eggs,  well  beaten,  3  tablespoons  of  water.  .  Bake  with  an  under 
crust,  when  done,  make  an  icing  by  mixing  the  whites  of  2  eggs, 
well  beaten,  with  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  put  over  the  top.  Set 
back  in  the  oven  until  the  icing  is  a  delicate  brown. — Mrs.  Conk- 
lin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

RHUBARB  CUSTARD  PIE.— Cook  2^  cups  rhubarb  with 
about  1  tablespoon  of  water,  add  2^^^  cups  sugar  just  as  removed 
from  fire,  and  add  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  stirring  vigorously. 
Put  into  baked  shell,  cover  with  meringue. — Mabel  Sturtevant, 
105  S,  Dearborn  St,  Chicago,  III. 

SOUR  MILK  PIE.— 1  cup  thick,  sour  milk,  2  tablespoons 
of  butter,  ^  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  ^4  teaspoon  of 
nutmeg  and  cloves,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  cup  sugar.  Bake  with 
upper  and  lower  crust. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

SQUASH  PIE. — 1  egg,  1  cup  cooked  squash,  1  cup  of  milk, 
Yi  teaspoon  salt,  %  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  molasses,  5-2  tea- 
spoon of  ginger  1/16  teaspoon  cinnamon,  speck  of  cloves,  3  drops- 
vanilla.  Bake  as  pumpkin  pie  in  one  crust. — Mrs.  L.  E.  Mason, 
Oak  Glen.  111. 


5^24  PIES  AND  PASTRY 

STRAWBERRY  PIE.— Line  a  buttered  plate  with  puff  paste, 
wash  with  white  of  egg,  and  fill  with  ripe  strawberries,  capped 
and  washed.  Sweeten  plentifully,  cover  with  another  crust;  cut 
slits  in  this  and  bake. — Mrs.  A.  L.  Lansing,  Flossmore,  111. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE.— Parboil,  peel,  and  when  cold,  grate 
enough  sweet  potatoes  to  make  a  lb.  Cream  a  5^  cup  of  butter 
with  ^  cup  of  sugar  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  a  teaspoon 
each  of  powdered  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  the  grated  potato,  the 
juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  a  wineglass  of  brandy,  and,  last  of  all. 
the  whites  of  4  eggs.  Line  a  large  pie-plate  with  puff  paste,  fill 
with   the   mixture,   and   bake. — Mrs.   Edgar   Wilkinson,    Palos,    111. 

TURN-OVER  PIES.— Mix  a  plain  puff  paste.  Roll  thin,  and 
cut  into  circular  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  saucer.  Put  fruit  over 
one-half  of  the  piece.  Sprinkle  with  sugar.  Wet  the  edges  and 
turn  the  paste  over.  Press  the  edges  together  and  bake  on  tins 
in  a  quick  oven  20  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Chauncy,  Mt.  Prospect, 
111. 

VINEGAR  PIE. — Bake  crust  as  for  lemon  pie.  Mix  1  egg, 
1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  corn  starch,  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  1 
cup  cold  water,  add  nutmeg  flavor  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
till  thick,  fill  the  crust  and  make  a  lattice  work  of  pie-crust  over 
top.  Brown  in  oven.  Serve  hot  or  cold. — Mrs.  Geo.  S.  Piper, 
Worth,  111. 

WASHINGTON  PIE.— Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  and  1 
egg;  add  ^  cup  milk,  butter  size  of  egg,  make  a  stiff  batter,  as 
for  cake,  using  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  to  1  cup  flour;  bake  in 
jelly  pan,  slip  it  off  and  spread  with  strawberry  or  raspberry 
jam;  over  this  spread  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  to  stiff  froth, 
with  a  little  sugar.  Put  in  oven  till  set;  eat  with  or  without  cream, 
while  hot.  This  is  good  also  cut  cold  and  used  for  a  cake. — Mrs. 
S.  A.  Perkins,  Palos  Park,  111. 

TARTS 

CHOCOLATE  TARTS.— ^  cup  milk  and  l4  cup  water,  add 
1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  butter,  a  pinch  of  soda,  and  ^  cake  grated 
chocolate.  When  this  boils  add  l^  tablespoons  corn  starch,  or 
more,  to  make  stiff  enough,  dissolved  in   a  little  water,  let   boil 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  525 

until  thickened,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla.     Place  in  tart  shells  and 
put  icing  on  top. — Mrs.  S.  A.  Perkins,  Palos  Park,  111. 

CRANBERRY  TART.— 2^  cups  cranberries,  1^  cups  sugar, 
Yz  cup  water.  Pick  over  and  wash  berries,  add  water,  to  cover 
and  cook  over  moderate  fire  until  all  the  berries  have  burst,  then 
add  sugar,  and  cook  to  thoroughly  combine.  Cook  and  put  in 
baked  shell,  and  just  before  serving  cover  with  lattice  of  baked 
crust,  or  bake  mixture  in  crust  without  previously  baking. — Mrs. 
R.  A.  Watkins,  Oak  Forest,  111. 

COCOANUT  TARTS.— Boil  together  1  cup  of  sugar,  ^  cup 
of  water,  J4  of  a  grated  cocoanut.  Boil  the  water,  sugar  and  co- 
coanut  together  for  5  minutes.  Remove  the  mixture  from  the 
fire,  and  when  it  is  nearly  cold,  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  well 
beaten.  Stir  all  well  together,  pour  the  preparation  into  patty 
pans,  lined  with  crust,  and  bake  8  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  stiff, 
add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  distribute  this  meringue  among  the 
tarts  and  return  them  to  the  oven  to  brown  lightly. — Mrs.  F. 
Alexander,  Greenwood,  111. 

DATE  TARTS.— Blanch  J^  lb.  shelled  almonds,  stone  ^i  lb. 
dates,  and  chop  both.  Beat  4  eggs  and  Ij^  cups  fruit  sugar,  grad- 
ually add  flavoring,  add  almonds  and  dates.  Drop  in  buttered  pan 
and  bake  1  hr.  in  a  slow  oven. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Holmes,  Homewood, 
111. 

HAZELNUT  TARTS.— Mix  1  scant  cup  of  powdered  sugar 
and  well-beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs,  add  1  tablespoon  of  rum,  Yz  lb. 
ground  nuts,  1^  cups  of  ground  bread,  keeping  Yz  cup  for  filling, 
and  the  whites  of  eggs.     Bake  in  2  layers. 

Filling. — 1  cup  milk,  1^4  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  t^^\  let 
them  come  to  a  boil.  Set  aside  and  add  Yi  lb.  ground  nuts,  re- 
maining bread,  and  1  teaspoon  of  rum. 

Frosting. — \Yz  cups  of  confectioner's  sugar  with  enough  cream 
to  make  it  stiff.  Flavor  with  almond  or  vanilla  extract.- — Mrs. 
F.  Alexander,  Glenwood,  111. 

LEMON  CHEESE  FOR  TARTS.— 1  lb.  white  sugar,  rind  of 
2  lemons,  juice  of  3  or  4  small  ones,  yolks  of  3,  whites  of  3,  6  oz. 
of  butter.  Boil  until  thickness  of  honey.  Put  into  sealers  and 
keep  in  a  cool  place.  Will  keep  a  long  time. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Holmes, 
Homewood,  111. 


PUDDING  AND  DESSERTS 


A  DELICIOUS  PUDDING  SAUCE.— Beat  the  whites  of  2 
eggs  stiff  and  beat  in  the  yolks.  Add  1  cup  of  sugar  to  Y^  pt.  of 
cream,  beaten  stiff.  Just  before  serving  beat  the  eggs  and  cream 
together. — Mrs.  A.  Morgan,  429  19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  III. 

HARD  PUDDING  SAUCE.— Cream  1  cup  sugar,  and  J^  cup 
butter,  grate  1  apple  or  3  slices  of  pineapple,  and  add  the  well- 
beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Beat  all  thoroughly  together. — Mrs.  C.  K. 
Wurtz,  216  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

MAPLE  SYRUP  PUDDING  SAUCE.— To  J^  cup  maple 
syrup  add  1  tablespoon  butter,  3  tablespoons  of  flour,  thin  with  Yz 
cup  cold  water,  pour  3  cups  boiling  water  over  this. — Jane  Parker, 
803  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SAUCE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING.— Stir  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  into  2  cups  of  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  add  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  and  1  cup  of  boiling  water 
Cook,  stirring  steadily,  for  a  few  minutes.  Take  from  fire  and 
add  the  w^hites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Flavor  with  lemon  juice 
or  nutmeg  and  brandy. — Mrs.  Harry  Stearns,  134  S.  19th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

SAUCE~"ROSA  BONHEUR."— 1  pt.  good  claret  mixed 
with  Ya,  lb.  sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  2  whites,  well  beaten,  juice 
of  2  lemons  and  1  orange.  Beat  all  together,  adding  a  very  little 
corn  starch.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  stiff,  and  serve  while 
fresh  and  hot. — Mrs.  Wm.  P.  Williams,  4463  Woodlawn  Ave., 
Chicago,  111. 

TARTARE  SAUCE.— Mix  and  chop  very  fine  each  of  the 
following:  1  tablespoon  of  capers,  olives,  green  cucumber  pickles, 
and  parsley.  Press  dry  in  a  cloth.  Then  add  gradually  to  1  cup 
of  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Winter,  Winnetka,  111. 

ALMOND  PUDDING.— Soak  3  tablespoons  of  finely  grated 
bread  crumbs  in  milk.     Add   54  lb.  of  blanched  and  pounded  al- 

526 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  527 

monds,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  melted  in  a  pt.  of  new 
milk,  sugar  to  taste,  a  teaspoon  of  grated  lemon  rind,  a  little  nut- 
meg, and  3  eggs,  well  beaten.  Place  in  a  pudding  dish  lined  with 
paste,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven, — Mrs.  E.  D.  Kelley,  VVin- 
netka,  111. 

BAKED  APPLES. — Pare  and  core  greening  apples  and  fill 
the  holes  with  sugar,  sprinkle  cinnamon  over,  and  bake.  Serve 
with  cream. — Mrs.   C.  K.  Wurtz,  216  S.  2nd   Ave.,   Maywood,   111. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS.— Ipt.  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  pinch  of  salt,  1  heaping  tablespoon  lard.  Mix  well 
together,  add  water  enough  to  roll  thin.  Peel  2  big  apples  and 
slice  thin.  Divide  the  dough  and  apples  into  4  or  5  parts,  as  de- 
sired. Cover  the  apples  with  the  dough,  seasoning  the  apples 
with  a  very  little  sugar,  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Place  in  baking 
pan,  with  a  large  cup  of  boiling  water  in  which  a  small  J^  cup  of 
brown  sugar  has  been  dissolved.  Baste  often  while  baking. — Mrs. 
Wm.  P.  Williams,  4463  Woodlawn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

APPLE  PUDDING.— Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  and  1  table- 
spoon butter;  add  1  beaten  egg,  ^  cup  milk,  1  heaping  cup  flour 
in  which  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  has  been  sifted.  The  batter 
should  be  quite  stiff.  Have  the  pudding  pan  well  greased,  cover 
with  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  apples,  add  a  layer  o.  the  batter,  etc. 
Serve  with  pudding  sauce.  Any  kind  of  canned  or  fresh  fruits 
may  be  used  in  the  same  way.  If  raisins  or  berries  are  used,  mix 
with  flour.  If  canned  or  stewed  fruits  are  used,  use  the  juice  for 
the  sauce. — Jane  Parker,  803  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 5  apples,  pared  and  quartered,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  small  spices  to  taste.  Cream  1  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  l4  cup  sugar,  add  1  beaten  egg,  l4  cup  milk,  flavor  with  cinna- 
mon, nutmeg  or  vanilla,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough, 
sifted  with  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder;  mix  little  stifler 
than  cake  dough.  Pour  over  the  apples  and  bake  slowly.  Serve 
hot  with  milk,  cream  or  pudding  sauce.  It  may  be  served  cold  with 
plain  or  whipped  cream.  Nice  to  put  up  with  cold  lunches. — Mrs. 
Mary  Herring,  404  S.  11th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

APPLE  FLOAT. — Pare  and  core  6  large  apples  and  bake. 
Beat  1  cup  powdered  sugar  and  the  beaten  whites  of  1  egg  until 


528  PUDDING  AND  DESSERTS 

very  light;  add  Ij^  pts.  milk,  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  of 
corn  starch,  and  a  little  salt.  Put  in  a  double  'boiler  and  stir  until 
thick,  place  in  a  dish  and  float  the  baked  apples  upon  it. — Mrs.  C. 
K.  Wurtz,  216  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

APPLE  GRAHAM  PUDDHSTG.— Mix  together  2  cups  of 
white  flour,  1  cup  graham  flour,  2  cups  chopped  apples,  2  scant  tea- 
spoons of  soda,  y^  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  molasses,  ^  cup  butter,  1 
teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  of  mace,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon. 
Pour  into  buttered  pan  large  enough  to  permit  rising;  cover 
closely  and  steam  2  hrs.  Use  hard  sauce  for  dressing  or  a  boiled 
corn  starch  dressing  flavored  vv^ith  grated  lemon  rind  and  juice. — 
Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

STEAMED  APPLE  PUDDING.— Chop  Va  lb.  of  beef  suet 
fine  and  mix  with  1  qt.  of  flour.  Peel  and  core  4  good-sized  ap- 
ples, and  chop  fine;  add  4  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  mix  thor- 
oughly with  flour  and  suet;  add  enough  water  to  make  it  hold  to- 
gether; put  in  a  pudding  bag  or  steamer,  and  boil  or  steam  2  or  3 
hrs.  Serve  hot  with  a  plain  pudding  sauce,  made  with  1  cup  milk, 
1  teaspoon  flour,  and  sweetened  to  taste. — Mrs,  Joseph  Wylegalla, 
1415  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BETTY  OR  BABY  IN  THE  BAG.— Make  a  biscuit  dough 
and  roll  out  in  a  sheet.  Peel  and  quarter  apples  and  lay  across, 
sprinkle  over  raisins,  cinnamon  and  sugar.  Roll  like  a  jelly-roll. 
Put  into  a  bag  and  steam.  Serve  with  a  plain  pudding  sauce. 
Blueberries  used  instead  of  apples  make  a  nice  pudding.  Any 
kind  of  berries  or  fruit  may  be  used. — Mrs.  E.  J.  McGrath,  315  S. 
5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BLACKBERRY  BREAD.— Stew  berries,  sweeten;  pour  hot 
over  thin  slices  baker's  bread,  buttered,  making  alternate  layers 
with  fruit;  last  put  a  plate  on  top,  and  when  cold  set  on  ice. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. — ^Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

BLACKBERRY  EMPRESS.— 2  cups  milk,  1  ^zz,  Vs  cup  of 
butter,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  and  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter. 
Place  layer  in  a  pudding  dish;  cover  with  a  qt.  blackberries,  M-^ell 
covered  with  sugar  and  few  dabs  of  butter.  Cover  with  the  re- 
maining   batter.     Bake    1    hr.     Serve    either    hot    or    cold,    with 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  529 

whipped    cream,    sweetened. — Mrs.     C.    A.    Armstrong,    Oaklawn, 
111. 

BLUEBERRY  PUDDING.— 3  cups  flour,  1  qt.  blueberries,  1 
teaspoon  soda,  beaten  into  1  cup  molasses,  salt,  steam  3  hrs. 

Sauce. — Beat  2  even  tablespoons  of  butter  and  ^  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  well-beaten  white  of  an  egg,  and 
3  tablespoons  of  Sherry,  or  any  kind  of  flavor.  Beat  the  mixture 
perfectly  smooth,  set  over  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  serve  hot. 
— Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING.— Cut  bread  into  thin 
slices  and  spread  with  butter,  lay  in  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  with 
raisins,  currants,  and  pour  over  it  a  mixture  made  of  2  beaten 
eggs,  to  which  have  been  added  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  pt.  of 
milk;  grate  nutmeg  over  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.— Ivirs.  Joseph 
Wylegalla,  1415  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BRIDE'S  PUDDING.— Wheat  flakes,  ground  wheat  or  toast- 
ed wheat,  sugar  and  vanilla,  chopped  (blanched)  almonds,  chopped 
raisins,  pine-nuts,  dates  anci  citron. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Remley,  Willow 
Springs,  111. 

CAKE  PUDDING.— Take  4  or  5  pieces  of  cake  to  a  pt.  of 
milk;  soak  up  the  cake  in  the  milk;  add  2  beaten  eggs,  1  cup 
sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  bake  until  it  thickens  like  a  custard. 
Dry  bread  or  crackers  may  be  used  instead  of  cake, — Mrs.  Henry 
T.  Lane,  305  S.  4th  Avenue,  Maywood,  111. 

CHESTNUTS  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM.— Boil  the 
chestnuts,  and  when  perfectly  tender,  press  them  through  a  col- 
ander in  the  center  of  a  large  chop  plate.  Dust  then  thickly  with 
powdered  sugar  and  heap  around  1  pt.  of  cream  (whipped  to  a 
stiff  froth).  The  cream  may  be  flavored  with  Sherry  or  vanilla. — 
Mrs.  Chas.  Kramer,  Sutton,  III. 

CHOCOLATE  JOY.— Put  2  cups  of  water  in  a  double  boiler, 
add  ^  cup  minute  tapioca,  2  tablespoons  each  of  grated  chocolate 
and  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  boil  until  clear;  add  l4  lb.  washed 
and  stoned  dates,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Eat  cold,  with  cream. — 
Mrs.  Harry  Stearns,  134  S.  19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


530  PUDDING  AND  DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING.— Boil  1  pt.  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  Yt,  cup  sugar,  and  2  tablespoons  of  corn  starch,  dissolved  in  an 
equal  quantity  of  cold  water.  Boil  until  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Remove  from  fire.  Melt  1  square  of.  chocolate  in  a  little  hot 
water;  add  to  mixture  and  cook  a  little  longer,  after  removing 
from  fire  add  1  teaspoon  of  desired  flavoring. — Mrs.  Mary  Her- 
ring, 404  S.  11th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING.— Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  add  1 
pt.  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  a  pinch 
of  sugar,  a  cup  of  dessicated  cocoanut  which  is  soaked  for  an  hr. 
in  one-half  of  the  milk;  bake  till  like  thick  custard,  then  add  the 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  a  tablespoon  of  pulverized 
sugar,  beaten  in  with  them.  •  Flavor  with  lemon  extract. — Mrs.  E. 
D.  Blaine,  Belmont,  111. 

CRACKER  PUDDING.— 1  pt.  of  milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs.  3 
crackers,  rolled  fine,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  flavor  with 
vanilla,  bake  in  a  slow  oven;  when  cool  spread  with  jelly.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  5^  cup  sugar;  spread  this  on  top. 
Place  in  the  oven  and  brown. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Rinnaker,  Chicago 
Ridge,  111. 

CROQUARTE  OF  ORANGES.— Make  a  syrup  of  granulated 
sugar  until  it  will  spin  a  thread.  Peel  and  remove  the  hard  pith 
and  inner  white  skin  of  5  oranges.  Butter  a  pudding  mould  nnd 
dip  eacli  piece  of  orange  in  the  syrup  and  press  against  the  sides 
of  the  mould.  Place  one  against  the  other  until  all  are  used. 
Put  on  ice  until  hardened.  Stir  Yz  box  gelatin  and  Yt.  cup  sugar 
in  1  pt.  boiling  water.  When  dissolved  put  in  cool  place.  Beat 
the  whites  of  3  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat  gelatin  to  the  same 
state;  add  whites  of  eggs,  beat  until  smooth,  and  pour  over  pre- 
pared oranges.  When  well  hardened  turn  out,  and  serve  with 
cream. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Holmes,  Homewood,  111. 

STEAMED  CRANBERRY  PUDDING.— 1  t^^,  beaten  light, 

1  cup  sweet  milk  in  which  dissolve  2  teaspoons  bakiitg  powder, 
thoroughly  mixed  with  2  cups  of  flour,  and  a  little  salt.  Add  1 
cup  of  cranberries,  and  steam  \Y\  hrs. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glen- 
coe,  111. 

DATE  PUDDING.— Mix  in   the  order  given:     ^  cup  butter, 

2  cups  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking 


'   COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  531 

powder,  1  cup  dates,  Vz  cup  chopped  nuts,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Figs  may  be  used  in  this  recipe  instead  of  dates. 
Cookies  may  be  made  from  this  batter  by  dropping  it  from  a 
spoon  into  a  cookie-pan.  To  serve  as  a  dessert,  cut  the  cake  in 
squares  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  or  custard. — Mrs.  Helen 
Williams,  6032  Ellis  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

ECLAIR  PUDDING.— 4  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  of  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla,  1  of  baking  powder.  When  baked  spread  the 
top  with  chocolate  icing. 

Icing. — White  of  1  t^^,  Yz  cup  milk,  ^  cup  of  sugar,  4  table- 
spoons grated  chocolate.  Boil  until  thick  and  smooth.  Just  be- 
fore serving  split  and  fill  with  the  following  custard:  1  pt.  of 
eggs,  yolk  of  3  eggs,  little  salt,  Vz  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of 
corn  starch;  flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  Parke  Hamilton  Akin,  1015 
N.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

FOOD  FOR  THE  GODS.— 3  eggs,  3  heaping  tablespoons 
cracker  crumbs,  1  cup  sugar,  ^  lb.  English  walnut  meats,  chopped, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  34  lb.  dates,  seeded  and  chopped.  Beat 
the  eggs  thoroughly  and  mix  with  the  sugar;  add  the  baking  ]  cw- 
der  and  cracker  crumbs  mixed  together.  Stir  in  nuts  and  dates 
last.  Bake  1  hr.  in  slow  oven.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. — ^Mrs. 
Wm.  P.  Williams,  4463  Woodlawn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

GELATIN  PUDDING.— Make  a  custard  with  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  1  pt.  of  milk,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Set  Yz  box  of  gelatin  to 
soak  a  few  minutes  in  a  little  cold  water,  then  dissolve  it  with  % 
cup  of  boiling  water.  When  the  custard  has  cooled,  add  the  gela- 
tin, water,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
flavor  with  vanilla,  stir  all  together,  and  put  it  into  a  mould  (or 
moulds).  It  will  settle  in  3  layers. — Mrs.  D.  E,  Gentry,  Glencoe, 
111. 

GINGER  CREAM.— Boil  1  pt.  milk,  add  beaten  yolks  of  4 
eggs,  Yz  saltspoon  salt,  Y2  cup  sugar,  and  cook  till  it  thickens. 
Soak  Y^  box  gelatin  in  ^  cup  cold  water,  and  strain,  cool,  add  to 
milk  mixture,  also  1  tablespoon  wine,  1  of  brandy,  4  tablespoons 
ginger  syrup,  and  Y2  lb.  ginger  (preserved  ginger)  cut  in  small 
pieces;  stir  rapidly,  on  ice  if  the  weather  is  warm  till  thick,  then 
add  1  pt.  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Remley,  Willow  Springs, 
111. 


532  PUDDING  AND  DESSERTS 

GRAHAM  PUDDING.— 1  cup  each  of  sweet  milk  and  mo- 
lasses, 2  teaspoons  of  flour,  1  large  cup  of  raisins  and  currants. 
Steam  3  hrs.  in  a  covered  pail;  remove,  cover  and  place  in  oven 
for  a  few  minutes. 

Sauce. — 1  cup  sugar,  J4  cup  butter,  1  small  teaspoon  flour,  y^ 
pt.  boiling  water,  flavor  to  taste. — Boil  slowly  5  or  10  minutes. — 
Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

HOMINY  PUDDING.— Take  an  equal  quantity  of  chopped 
tart  apple,  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  a  few  raisins  or  dates  for 
sweetening,  to  the  amount  of  hominy.  If  too  thick  add  enough 
water  to  make  the  required  consistency.  Bake  until  the  apples 
are  entirely  soft.  Serve  either  warm  or  cold. — Mrs.  C.  Carson,  205 
S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

JUNKET. — Dissolve  1  junket  tablet  in  a  tablespoon  of  water, 
and  stir  into  a  qt.  of  milk  in  which  J4  cup  of  sugar  has  been  dis- 
solved. Bring  to  a  blood  heat,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  pour  im- 
mediately into  junket  cups.  Let  stand  10  minutes,  being  careful 
not  to  jolt.  When  ready  to  serve,  pour  any  kind  of  fruit  or  nuts 
over  it  and  add  flavored  w'hipped  cream  with  a  candied  cherry  or 
other  fruit  on  top.  Care  should  be  used  not  to  have  milk  above 
blood  heat.— Miss  Frieda  Zeeb,  318  N.  1st  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

LEMON  JELLY  IRISH  MOSS.— Soak  ^  cup  of  Irish  moss 
in  lukewarm  w^ater  10  minutes,  then  wash  each  piece  thoroughly  in 
cold  water.  Drain  and  soak  in  a  pt.  of  water  J4  hr.,  add  the  yellow 
rind  of  a  lemon.  Then  stir,  and  heat  slowly,  until  water  is  steam- 
ing hot,  then  simmer  about  10  minutes.  Strain  through  a  fine 
sieve.  Stir  in  4  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  4  of  lemon  juice  and 
pour  into  moulds  or  a  dish  to  form  a  jelly.  Serve  cold.  Nice  for 
invalids. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING.— Dissolve  2  teaspoons  of 
gelatin  in  ^  cup  of  hot  water,  when  dissolved  beat  in  1  cup  ofi 
sugar  and  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  flavor  to  taste;  beat  20  min- 
utes, and  set  away  on  ice. 

Sauce.— Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  light,  stir  into  a  cup  of  milk 
with  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Cook  to' consistency  of  cream. — 
Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

MINUTE  PUDDING.— Put  milk  on  stove  to  boil.  When  it 
boils  add  enough  graham  flour  to  make  it  moderately  stiff;  let  it 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  533 

cook   slowly   about   10   minutes;    serve   with    cream   and    sugar. — 
Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

NONPAREIL  PUDDING.— 1  pt.  of  bread  crumbs,  1  qt.  of 
sweet  milk,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten,  butter  size  of  an  tgg. 
Bake  until  done,  not  watery.  Beat  the  whites  until  stiff,  beat  in 
%  cup  of  sugar,  spread  a  layer  of  tart  jelly,  over  jelly  put  the 
whites,  put  in  oven  and  bake  lightly.  When  cold,  serve  with 
cream. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

NUT  CORN  PUDDING.— Put  thin  slices  of  protose  into  a 
3-qt,  basin  in  layers,  with  6  tablespoons  of  finely  sliced  celery,  salt 
and  a  slight  dredging  of  flour  until  ^A  or  ^  full.  Cover  well  with 
water,  and  bake  from  J^  to  1  hr.  Then  spread  over  it  corn  pud- 
ding, sprinkle  lightly  with  fine  crumbs,  and  bake  until  a  delicate 
brown  over  the  top. — Mrs.  C.  J.  JeflFries,  Winnetka,  III. 

NUT  PUDDING.— Beat  the  yolk  of  6  eggs,  and  add  14  cup 
of  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  very  stiff  froth  and  add  3  cups  of 
finely  chopped  nuts.  Mix  all  together  lightly  and  stir  in  1  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Sift  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  in  1  table- 
spoon of  flour.  Bake  quickly  in. small  cake  tins.  Put  together 
like  a  layer  cake,  serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N. 
Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

ORANGE  SHORT  CAKE.— Take  VA  cups  of  flour,  2  spoons 
of  baking  powder,  butter  size  of  an  egg;  mix  with  milk.  Chop  4 
oranges  in  sugar.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914 
N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PEACH  PUDDING.— Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pudding-pan 
with  halved  stewed  or  canned  peaches  laid  cut  side  down,  without 
crowding.  Make  a  batter  of  A  cup  sugar,  1  small  tablespoon  of 
butter,  1  egg,  a  small  cup  of  milk,  and  flour  enough  to  make  stiff; 
flavor  with  a  little  nutmeg,  spread  this  over  the  stewed  peaches, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20  minutes.  Let  stand  till  cool. 
Place  a  plate  over  and  turn  upside  down.  The  peaches  embedded 
in  the  top  make  an  attractive  and  appetizing  pudding.  Serve  with 
cream.— Mrs.  C.  K.  Wurtz,  216  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PEACH  ROLLS. — Stew  dried  or  fresh  fruit,  sweeten,  and 
flavor  to  taste.     Make  a  good  baking  crust,  roll  very  thin,  spread 


534  -  PUDDING  AND  DESSERTS 

on  fruit,  putting  thin  pieces  of  butter  on  the  fruit,  roll  up  crust 
and  cut  in  slices,  place  in  a  pan  4  or  5  inches  deep.  To  3  or  4 
rolls  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  5^  cup  of  butter,  pour  in  hot  water 
enough  to  cover  them.  Bake  Yz  hr. — Mrs,  Geo.  S.  Piper,  Worth, 
111. 

STUFFED  PEARS.— Peel  and  core  8  pears  and  set  in  a  bak- 
ing dish,  with  a  very  little  cold  water.  Peel  and  put  through 
grinder  3  medium-sized  quinces.  To  the  quince  pulp  add  1  large 
cup  of  granulated  sugar,  stir  thoroughly,  fill  the  cavity  in  pears 
with  the  latter  and  pour  the  remainder  around  pears  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven.  The  quince  pulp  renders  the  syrup  thick  and 
luscious. — Mrs.  C.  Carson,  205  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PINEAPPLE  WHIP.— Beat  1  pt.  cream  until  it  is  quite  stiff, 
add  whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten,  ^  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the 
pineapple  drained  of  the  juice.  Sherry  improves  it. — Mrs.  C.  C. 
Chauncy,  Mt.  Prospect,  111. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING.— Mix  together  1  lb.  seeded 
raisins,  1  lb.  cleaned  currants,  54  lb.  citron,  cut  into  dice,  3  beaten 
eggs,  3  or  4  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  pt.  cold  water,  i/^  lb.  suet^ 
Melt  the  suet,  pour  on  cold  water,  when  hard,  dry,  dust  with  flour 
and  put  through  a  meat  chopper.  Add  the  ^grated  inside  of  2 
small  loaves  of  bread,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste,  a  little  flour 
to  hold  the  mixture  together.  Boil  in  a  bag  lor  3  or  4  hrs. — M:'*s, 
Harry  Stearns,  134  S,  19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  III. 

.  VARIATION  I.— Mix  together  1  lb.  of  suet,  chopped 
fine,  1  lb.  of  flour,  5  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  1  lb.  raisins,  1  lb. 
grated  carrots,  Va  lb.  of  citron,  lemon  and  orange  peel,  mixed,  2 
cups  bread  crumbs,  2  cups  milk,  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  allspice,  1  nutmeg,  grated,  '/^  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a 
small  wineglass  of  brandy.  Ihis  makes  a  very  large  pudding  and 
should  be  put  in  2  bags.  It  may  be  steam.ed  or  boiled,  at  least 
9  hrs.  Place  in  the  center  of  table,  and  pour  Yi  cup  of  brandy 
over  it,  and  set  on  fire;  a  blue  flame  comes  up  around  the  pud- 
ding, improving  the  flavor.  S?,rve  with  brandy  i.>auce,  made  with 
1  tablespoon  of  brandy  an«l  a  cup  or  milk,  thickened  with  ^  tea- 
spoon of  corn  starch  and  sweetened  to  taste. — Mrs.  T.  Martin, 
514  S.  7th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111, 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  535 

PLUVA  PUDDING. — 1  cup  chopped  apples,  1  cup  currants, 
1  cup  rolled  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  1  cup  white  sugar, 
1/3  cup  suet,  1  small  tablespoon  flour,  1  nutmeg,  4  eggs,  beaten 
separately,  the  whites  added  fast.  Steam  4  hrs. — Eloise  Jennings, 
Winnetka,  111. 

PORCUPINE  SPONGE  PUDDING.— Ij^  cups  sugar,  ^  cup 
butter,  2y2  cups  flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  tea- 
spoons cream  tartar,  flavor.  Slice  the  cake  in  halves,  spread  with 
jelly  or  jam,  place  them  together  and  pour  wine  over;  stick  with 
blanched  almonds;  put  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  over  rich  custard 
or  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

PRUNE  PUDDING.—^  lb.  prunes,  boiled  soft,  and  pressed 
through  a  colander,  6  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  whites  of  5 
eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Bake  20  minutes  in  a  pan  of  hot  water. — Mrs. 
Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PRUNE  WHIP. — Boil  1  cup  prunes  and  J^  cup  dried  apricots 
until  soft.  Take  skins  and  stones  off  of  the  prunes  and  put  on 
and  boil  again  with  the  apricots  until  both  have  reached  a  j/ulp. 
Remove,  and  let  cool.  Beat  in  whites  of  1  egg  and  sugar  to  taste, 
and  bake.  This  makep  a  dessert  sufficient  to  serve  8  people. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  T.  Martin,  514  S.  7tli  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

PRUSSIAN  CREAM.— Scald  ^  pt.  milk  in  a  farina  kettle. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar  light,  stir  into  the  milk, 
add  }i  box  gelatin  which  has  been  soaked  in  some  of  the  milk; 
stir  constantly  until  it  thickens.  Take  from  the  stove  and  stir  in 
the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Pour  in  moulds.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  and  sugar. — Mrs.  Edgar  Wilkinson,  Palos  Park,  111. 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDING.— 1  pt.  of  bread  crumbs,  1  qt.  of 
milk,  1  cup  sugar,  the  yolk  of  4  eggs,  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon, 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Bake  like  a  custard.  When 
baked  spread  over  the  top  slices  of  jelly  and  cover  the  whole  with 
the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  1  cup  of  sugar,  and  juice  of 
the  lemon.  Brown  lightly  in  the  oven. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  C'len- 
coe.  111. 

RED  RASPBERRY  PUFF.— 1  cup  pulverized  sugar,  stirred 
in  white  of  an  egg  (well  beaten);  add  1  cup  raspberries,  and  heat 


536  PUDDING  AND  DESSERTS 

20  minutes.     Place  in  refrigerator  until  thoroughly  chilled. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Mayood,  111. 

RASPBERRY  CUSTARD.— Make  a  custard  of  1  pt.  milk,  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  sugar;  steam.  Put  a  dessertspoon 
of  raspberries  in  6  custard  glasses,  fill  nearly  to  the  top  when  the 
custard  is  cold,  adding  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  stifif,  with  a 
little  sugar. — Mrs.  A.  L.  Lansing,  Flossmore,  111. 

REBECCA  PUDDING.— Mix  ^  cup  corn  starch,  %  cup 
sugar,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  dilute  with  cold  water,  add  to  scalded 
milk,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens,  and  then  occasion- 
ally. Cook  15  minutes,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  the  whites  of 
3  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Mix  thoroughly,  mould,  chill  and  serve  with 
yellow  sauce. — Mrs.  L.  E.  Mason,  Oak  Glen,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — Wash  the  rice  thoroughly,  then  put  over  a 
moderate  fire  with  just  enough  cold  water  to  prevent  it  from  burn- 
ing. Use  a  double  boiler,  if  possible,  and  have  a  close-fitting  cover. 
Add  salt  to  taste.  Steam  the  rice;  when  nearlj'-  done,  remove  the 
cover  and  add  a  lump  of  butter.  Serve  plain  or  with  cream,  sugar 
and  nutmeg. — Mrs.  D.  E.  Remley,  Willow  Springs,  111. 

RICE  PUDDING.— Boil  1  ciTp  rice  in  water,  until  tender, 
drain,  and  add  1  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut,  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  a  pt.  of  milk;  bake  in  a  "fairly  fast  oven  until  nicely 
browned  on  top.  A  piece  of  butter,  cut  in  fine  bits,  over  the  top 
helps  to  give  it  a  rich  brown  color. — Mrs.  T.  Martin,  514  S.  7th 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

RUBY  UNDER  THE  SNOW.— Put  ^  pt.  of  tapioca  into  a 
double  boiler,  with  IJ^  pts.  of  cold  water,  and  lemon  rind,  cut  like 
an  apple  paring,  and  let  it  simmer  until  clear;  then  take  out  the 
lemon  rind,  and  add  Yt.  pt.  of  currant  jelbs  4  oz.  of  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons of  any  kind  of  dark  juice,  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  When 
all  are  melted  together,  pour  into  a  glass  dish  and  set  away  to 
cool.  When  cold,  cover  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  fla- 
vored.— Mrs.  D.  E.  Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

SCHLOSS  TARTAR.— Grate  1  bar  of  chocolate,  add  4  eggs, 
^  cup  sugar,  1  scant  cup  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Filling. — Yi,  cup  raisins,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  sour  apple,  yolk  of 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  537 

1  ^SS,  Vz  teaspoon  lemon  oil,  1  cup  sugar  and  2  teaspoons  water. 
Boil  like  cream. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SHAUM  TARTAR.— Whites  of  6  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar;  stir 
10  minutes;  add  2  teaspoons  vinegar;  stir  5  minutes;  1  teaspoon 
vanilla;  stir  15  minutes.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  Yi  hr.,  in  2 
sheets.  Serve  with  cream. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE.— Cream  together  1  cup  of 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  add  3  eggs,  beaten  very  light;  mix 
thoroughly,  and  add  3  cups  of  flour,  sifted  3  times  with  1  heaping 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  with  a  little  salt.  Stir  in,  and  add 
enough  milk  or  cream  to  make  it  roll  out  easily.  Bake  in  deep 
tin  plates.  With  3  pts.  of  strawberries  mix  1  cup  of  sugar,  and 
spread  between  the  laj^ers  of  cake.  Serves  6. — Mrs.  Lighthart, 
811  X.  19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

WINTER  STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE.— Cream  together 
1  cup  sugar  and  y^  cup  butter;  add  2  beaten  eggs,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  beat  thoroughly;  add  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  in  which  2 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder  has  been  sifted.  Stir  thoroughly,  and 
bake  in  3  layers.  Remove  the  juice  from  a  can  of  strawberries 
and  put  fruit  between  the  layers.  Place  Ya,  cup  of  the  juice  on  the 
stove  and  add  enough  sugar  to  make  a  good  thick  syrup,  and  cook 
until  it  threads;  add  to  the  beaten  white  of  1  ^q,%,  pouring  gently, 
and  stirring  constantly;  use  to  frost  the  cake.  Any  kind  of  fruit 
may  be  used  instead  of  strawberries. — Mrs.  Chas.  F,  Miller,  1509 
St.  Charles  Ave.,  Maywood,  111, 

SUET  PUDDING,— Mix  together  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  milk, 
1  cup  suet,  1  cup  currants  and  raisins,  little  baking  powder.  Steam 
3  hrs.— Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SUNSET  PUDDING.— Break  4  sheets  of  isinglass  into  bits, 
put  in  a  bow^l  with  a  gill  of  cold  water.  Put  3^  box  of  gelatin  in 
another  bowl  with  1  gill  of  cold  water.  Let  both  soak  3  or  4  hr.-^. 
Have  read}'-  1^/2  pts.  of  boiling  water,  and  pour  half  into  each  bowl, 
stirring  until  the  isinglass  and  gelatin  are  dissolved.  Put  into 
each  bowl  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  ^  cup  of  sugar  and  M  cup  of  Sher- 
ry wine.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Strain  through  a  nap- 
kin into   separate  bowls,   put  where   they    will   cool,   stirring  occa- 


538  PUDDING  AND  DESSERTS 

sionally.  When  they  begin  to  thicken,  beat  with  a  spoon  until 
quite  stiff.  Put  into  a  mould  2  large  spoonfuls  of  the  pink  in  the 
center,  pour  the  light  color  around  it  and  then  the  remainder  of 
the  pink.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  a  soft  custard. — Mrs. 
Charles  Kramer,  Sutton,  111. 

TRIFLE. — Place  12  lady-fingers  or  slices  of  any  kind  of  stale 
cake  or  cookies  in  the  bottom  of  a  large  glass  dish,  sprinkle  over 
diced  pineapple,  canned  or  fresh,  or  any  preferred  fruit.  Make  a 
boiled  custard  with  1  pt.  of  milk,  3  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  of 
sugar;  when  partially  cooled,  but  not  set,  pour  over  fruit  and 
cake.  Serve  cold.  The  lady-fingers  or  cake  may  be  spread  with 
jelly,  jam  or  preserves,  or  it  may  be  soaked  in  wine  or  brandy.-^ 
Mrs.  Joseph  Wylegalla,  1415  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI.— Chop  V-z  lb.  of  candied  cherries,  J^  lb.  of 
candied  apricots,  ^  lb.  of  candied  pineapples,  very  fine,  and  when 

1  qt.  of  orange  water-ice  is  frozen  hard  enough  to  remove  the 
dasher,  stir  in  the  fruit  and  beat  thoroughly.  Cover,  and  stand 
away  to  ripen  for  2  hrs. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

VANILLA  PARFAIT. — Boil  a  good  cup  of  sugar  with  a  cup 
of  water  until  it  forms  a  rather  thick  syrup.  When  cool,  add  it 
to  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Place  this  over  boiling  water, 
and  stir  constantly,  until  the  spoon  is  well  coated.  Take  off  the 
stove,  beat  with  egg-beater  until  cool  and  light,  add  vanilla  flavor. 
When  quite  cold,  stir  in  ice  and  salt,  and  let  stand  4  hrs. — Mrs. 
Conklin,  914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VELVET  CREAM.— Beat  2  tablespoons  of  strawberry  jelly, 

2  of  currant  jelly,  2  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs, 
beaten  stiff,  all  together  to  a  cream.  Fill  a  wineglass  half  full  of 
this  mixture,  and  fill  the  glass  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  D.  E. 
Gentry,  Glencoe,  111. 

A  NICE  DESSERT. — Cut  up  bananas  and  oranges  into  a 
glass  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  pour  over  them  a  thick  boiled 
custard  made  of  a  pt.  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  J^  cup  of  sugar, 
and  1  tablespoon  of  flour.  Let  the  custard  get  cool.  Then  beat 
up  the  whites,  stiff,  and  cook  over  hot  water  for  y^  minute,  and 
put  on  top  of  the  custard. — Mrs,  G,  W.  Perkins,  Spaulding,  111. 


CAKE 


BOILED  FROSTING.— Whites  2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  y.  cup 
water.  Put  sugar  and  water  in  pan,  heat  gradually  to  boiling 
point  and  boil  until  the  syrup  will  hair.  Pour  the  syrup  gradually 
on  beaten  white  of  egg  and  continue  beating  all  the  while  until 
it  is  of  right  consistency  to  spread.  Then  add  flavoring.  Remark 
— If  beaten  too  long  frosting  will  not  be  smooth,  if  not  long 
enough  it  will  run.  When  it  runs,  more  syrup  may  be  added  and 
frosting  beaten  over,  and  when  not  smooth,  it  may  be  made 
smooth  by  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  boiling  water. — Mrs. 
Helen  Williams,  6032  Ellis  Ave.,   Chicago,  111. 

CARMEL  ICING. — Brown  sugar  in  a  frying  pan,  then  poui 
boiling  water  on  it.  Boil  till  it  taffies,  add  the  white  of  an  egg 
beaten  stiff,  and  a  little  vanilla. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Denham,  Hillside,  111. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING.— Boil  1  cup  white  sugar,  ^  cup  milk 
and  H  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  together  for  6  minutes,  remove 
from  stove,  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  oz.  unsweetened 
chocolate,  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla;  beat  until  proper  consistency 
to  spread  on  cake. — Mrs.  C.  E,  Linden,  Hubbard  Woods,  111. 

GELATIN  FROSTING.— Soften  1  teaspoon  gelatin  in  2 
tablespoons  cold  water;  add  2  tablespoons  hot  water;  when  en- 
tirely dissolved  add  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  and  beat  while  it  is 
warm,  until  white  and  light;  flavor  with  lemon  to  taste. — Mrs.  S. 
A.  Rose,  Dalton,  111. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  FROSTING.— Stir  together  1  lb.  soft  ma- 
ple sugar,  J4  to  ^  cup  boiling  water  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil 
without  stirring  until  syrup  will  thread  when  dropped  from  spoon; 
pour  gradually  on  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  beating  mixture  contin- 
ually until  of  right  consistency  to  spread. — Mrs.  F.  I.  Bailey,  Con- 
gress Park,  111. 

539 


540  CAKE 

GENERAL  RULES  FOR  CAKE 

Cream  J4  cup  butter  well  and  add  1  cup  sugar,  then  the  yolks  of 
2  egi^>,  well  beaten.  Mix  l5/<  cups  flour,  2^  teaspoons  baking 
powder  and  14  teaspoon  salt.  Add  flour  and  l4  cup  milk,  alter- 
nately, then  last  of  all  fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  have 
been  well  beaten. 

For  spice  cake  add  114  teaspoons  cinnamon,  P/2  teaspoons  all- 
spice, and  1  of  cloves. 

For  chocolate,  2  squares  of  chocolate  (melted)  and  about  94 
cup  less  of  flour. 

VARIATION  I. — Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  and  5  table- 
spoons butter,  add  2  beaten  eggs,  and  place  in  a  cup,  fdl  with 
sweet  milk,  and  1^  cups  flour,  in  which  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  have  been  sifted;  flavor  to  taste.  When  thoroughly 
mixed,  beat  for  10  minutes,  and  bake. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Rquland,  506 
S.  4th  Ave.,   Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  II. — Cream  together  2  small  cups  sugar  and  ^ 
cup  butter,  add  4  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  3^  cups  of  flour,  in 
which  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  has  been  sifted;  flavor  to  taste. 
Bake.— Mrs.  A.  E.  Rouland,  506  S.  4th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  III. — Cream  together  >4  cup  shortening,  butter 
preferred^  and  1  cup  sugar;  add  2  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  milk  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  batter,  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.— Mrs.  Frank  R.  Webber,  1001   S.  7th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  IV. — Lay  a  paper  in  the  mixing  dish  and  put 
all  the  dry  ingredients  into  your  sifter.  Sift  on  to  the  paper  and 
take  up  the  paper  and  pour  back  into  the  sifter.  Repeat  the  pro- 
cess several  times,  and  the  last  time  sift  into  the  dish. — Mrs.  E. 
J.  McGrafif,  315  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

ALMOND  NUT  CAKE.— Cream  together  2  eggs,  1  cup  gran- 
ulated sugar,  14  cup  butter,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  l4  cup  chopped  nuts, 
2  cups  flour,  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. — Mrs,  Al- 
bert Francis,  Franklin  Park,  111. 

ALMOND  PARLOR. — 6  eggs,  lj4  cups  sugar,  rind  of  a  lem- 
on,   J4    lb.    each    of   almonds    and    citron,    IJ^    cups    wheat    bread 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  541 

crumbs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  and  }i  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
Boil  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  sugar,  pour  over  the  cake  while  hot. 
—Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE.— Mix  together  and  sift  8  times  V/2 
cups  of  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  of  tlour^  1  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt;  add  rose  or  vanilla  flavoring,  and  fold  in  care- 
fully the  beaten  whites  of  11  eggs.  Put  in  a  floured  tin  and 
bake  very  -slowly  at  firsft,  then  increase  the  heat  1  hr.  Angel  food 
cake  bakes  well  in  a  lireless  cooker  and  requires  the  same  length 
of  time.  When  done  invert  and  rest  the  edges  of  the  pan  on  4 
cups  and  leave  thus  until  cool.  This  prevents  it  from  falling  and 
it  loosens  from  the  pan  easliy. — Jessie  Clevenger,  Carbondale,  111. 

APPLE  OR  HUCKLEBERRY  CAKE.— 2  cups  flour,  >4  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  even  teaspoons  baking  powder,  ^  cup  butter,  ^  cup 
sugar.  1  egg,  white  and  yolk  beaten  separately,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 
1  heaping  cup  huckleberries,  or  very  thin  sliced  apples,  added  last. 
Bake  in  a  thin  pan  ^  an  hr. — Mrs.  Wm.  P.  Williams,  4463  Wood- 
lawn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE.— 1  cup  brown  sugar,  creamed  with 
^  cup  butter;  add  1^  cups  apple  sauce,  1  cup  raisins,  2  teaspoons 
of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  ]/^  teaspoon  of  cloves,  J/2  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  nutmeg  and  2  cups  flour.  The  apple 
sauce  serves  instead  of  milk  or  water  and  keeps  the  cake  moist  for 
a  long  time. — Mrs.  E.  J.  McGrath,  315  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  III. 

BELFAST  CAKE.— Cream  together  y.  cup  butter,  V/2  cups 
sugar;  add  1  cup  sour  milk,  2  cups  graham  flour,  ^  cup  white 
flour,  1  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  soda,  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  tea- 
spoon salt,  a  saltspoon  of  nutmeg.  Bake  rather  slowly.  This  may 
be  used  as  either  a  loaf  or  layer  cake.  Sour  cream  my  be  used, 
and  use  less  butter. — Mrs.  G.  A.  Love,  Hubbard  Woods,  111. 

BERRY  CAKE. — Cream  together  3  eggs,  }i  cup  of  butter  and 
1  cup  of  sugar;  add  1  cup  of  berries,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  2  table- 
spoons of  sour  cream  or  milk,  1^  cups  of  flour;  bake  in  layers. — 
Mrs.  L.  A.  Robertson,  Austin,  111. 

.  BLACK  CAKE  (Famous) — 1  cup  white  sugar,   }i  cup  butter, 
1  egg,  K  cup  sour  milk,  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  va- 


542  CAKE 

nilla,  1  large  cup  flour.  Dissolve  two  squares  of  chocolate  in  J/2  a 
cup  boiling  water,  and  add  last. — Mrs.  Wm.  P.  Williams,  4463 
VVoodlawn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BLUEBERRY  TEA  CAKE.— Cream  ^  cup  butter  and  1  cup 
of  sugar;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  y^  cup  of  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  and  Yi  salt,  sifted  in  4  cups  flour.  Mix  well 
together  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten  stif?,  and  1  pt. 
blueberries,  lightly  dredged  with  flour.  Bake  Y^  hr.  in  a  shallow 
pan.    Serve  hot. — ^Miss  Frieda  Zeeb,  318  N.  1st  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BRAN  CAKE. — Cream  together  2  eggs,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  ^4 
cup  shortening;  add  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  each  baking  pow- 
der and  soda,  ^  cup  currants,  salt,  1  cup  flour,  then  mix  stiff  with 
bran. — Mrs.   B.  A.  Bennett,  Austin,  111. 

BREAD  CAKE. — Cream  ^  cup  butter  and  2  cups  sugar  to- 
gether; add  yolks  of  2  eggs,  mix  with  2  cups  of  light  bread  sponge; 
add  1  tablespoon  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  seeded  raisins, 
1  teaspoon  cloves  and  2  of  cinnamon.  Flour  enough  to  make  a 
dough.  Let  rise  a  little  and  put  in  slow  oven  to  bake  about  1  hr, — 
Mrs.  Wm.  Ableman,  604  S..9th  Ave.,  May^vood,  111. 

VARIATION  I. — 1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  grated  rye  bread,  4  eggs, 
J4  lb.  almonds,  Yz  teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  baking  powder,  and 
the  rind  of  a  lemon. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BURNT  SUGAR  CAKE.— Beat  Y^  cup  butter  to  a  cream;  add 
gradually  IJ/2  cups  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  cup  watpr  and  2  cups 
of  flour.  Beat  constantly  for  5  minutes  3  tablespoons  burnt  sugar, 
1  of  vanilla,  Yi  cup  flour.  Stir  carefully  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  and  the  w^ell-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. — Mrs.  Frederic 
Sharp,  700  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BUTTER  DOUGH.— J^  cup  butter,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  mixed 
with  \Y2  cups  flour,  1  tablespoon  water,  yolk  of  1  t%^.  Cut  the 
dough  into  strips,  place  apples  between  them.  Fry  in  lard,  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

CHECKERBOARD  LAYER  CAKE.— Light  part:  cream  to- 
gether 1  cup  white  sugar,  Y^  cup  butter  and  whites  of  3  eggs;  add 
Y2.  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  2  cups 
flour,  lemon  or  vanilla,     Dark  part:  cream  together  J^  cup  brown 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         543 

sugar,  Yi  cup  molasses,  and  ^  cup  butter;  add  Y^  cup  milk,  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoon 
each  of  cloves  and  nutmeg,  2  cups  flour.  This  will  make  3  layers. 
Arrange  the  batter  on  tins  in  alternate  rows  of  dark  and  light,  so 
that  when  the  cake  is  cut  it  will  resemble  a  checkerboard.^ — Mrs. 
C.  C.  Cash,  Hubbard  Woods,  111. 

CHERRY  CAKE.— Beat  together  1  cup  brown  sugar,  ^  cup 
butter,  1  cup  cherry  preserves,  without  pits,  2  eggs;  add  1  table- 
spoon sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  J4  tea- 
spoon nutmeg,  2  heaping  cups  flour. — Mrs.  Ruth  McLelland,  Qak 
Park,  111. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE.— To  Y^  cup  chocolate,  grated,  add  ^ 
cup  sweet  milk  and  J/^  cup  brown  sugar.  Boil  all  together  until 
thick  as  cream,  and  let  cool;  add  1  cup  brown  sugar,  J/2  cup  butter, 
2  eggs,  y^  cup  milk,  vanilla  flavoring.  Mix  well,  beat  in  the  boiled 
mixture,  add  2  cups  of  flour,  sifted  with  a  heaping  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers,  and  put  together  with  chocolate 
filling. — Mrs.  Dallas  Dillon,  Forest  Park,  111. 

CIDER  CAKE. — 5  cups  flour.  Work  1  cup  butter  to  a  cream, 
beat  5  eggs  and  3  cups  sugar  together;  pour  2  cups  cider,  in  which 
2  teaspoons  of  soda  are  dissolved,  on  2  cups  flour;  add  spice  to 
taste;  when  the  oven  is  ready  mix  all  together,  and  bake. — Mrs. 
Leonard  Lambert,  Franklin  Park,  111. 

COFFEE  CAKE!- 3  teacups  of  light  bread  sponge,  ^  teacup 
of  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  ^^^.  Let  rise  all  day;  at  night  roll  thin 
and  put  into  pans.  In  the  morning  spread  with  butter,  and  sprin- 
kle sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top.  Bake  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  A.  Mor- 
gan, 429  19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

COLD  WATER  CAKE.— Cream  together  Va  cup  butter,  or 
any  shortening^  and  1  cup  sugar;  add  ^  cup  cold  water,  2  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  soda  in  the  flour,  2  eggs,  1  cup  fruit,  Y2  teaspoon 
cloves,  Y2  teaspoon  allspice,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Lovell,  Gross  Point,  111. 

CORN  STARCH  CAKE.— ^  cup  sweet  milk.  Cream  1  cup 
butter  and  Y\  lb.  sugar  together,  mix  ^  cup  corn  starch  with  milk 
and  add,  then  add  whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  stiflf;  next  1  cup  flour, 


544  CAKE 

in  which  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  add  va- 
nilla or  lemon  flavoring,  put  in  well-greased  mould  and  bake.  If 
after  greasing  the  cake  tin  a  little  flour  is  dusted  over  it,  it  will 
prevent  the  cake  from  sticking  to  tin. — Mrs.  Max  Aiken,  Hubbard 
Woods,  111. 

DARK  SECRET.— 1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  dates,  cut  fine,  1  cup 
walnuts,  chopped,  3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  flour.  Bake  in  coffee  cake 
tins.  When  cake  is  cold  break  into  pieces,  cover  with  1  sliced 
banana  and  1  orange.  Put  whipped  cream  over  all. — Mrs.  Klug,  25 
N\  5th  Ave.,  M'aywood,  111. 

DEMON'S  FOOD  CAKE.— 2  cups  brown  sugar,  y^  cup  but- 
ter, y2  cup  grated  chocolate,  J^  cup  hot  water.  Pour  over  ^  cup 
sour  milk,  2  eggs,  3  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers. — Mrs.  Frederic  Sharp,  700  S.  3rd 
Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE.— Boil  together  i^  cup  each  of  grated 
chocolate,  milk  and  brown  sugar;  when  as  thick  as  cream  take 
from  lire  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Cream  together  ^  cup  of  butter 
and  a  cup  of  brown  sugar;  add  2  beaten  eggs,  7^  cup  milk;  flavor 
to  taste.  Beat  hard  and  whip  in  the  boiled  mixture  and  2  cups  of 
flour,  sifted  twice  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a 
loaf  or  layers  and  put  together  with  boiled  icing. — Mrs.  Light- 
hart,  811  N.  19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— 2  cups  of  sugar,  1^  cups  of  butter,  2  eggs, 
Yz  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate.  Dissolve  in  J/2*cup  of  boiling  water 
a  little  salt;  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  ^  cup  of  sour  milk,  and  add  3 
cups  of  flour.  Bake  in  layers. — Mrs.  A.  Morgan,  429  19th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

ECONOMY  CAKE.— 1  table'spoon  butter,  1  scant  cup  sugar, 
1  egg,  \y2  cups  flour,  scant  M  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  ^%z^  well  beaten; 
then  add  balance.  Flavor  with  lemon,  vanilla  or  cinnamon.  Ex- 
tra good  with  %  cup  currants  or  raisins,  or  1  cup  chopped  nut 
meats  added.  Bake  in  a  loaf. — Mrs.  Wm.  P.  Williams,  4463  Wood- 
lawn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

FARINA  CAKE. — Beat  5  eggs  separate;  add  ly^  cups  sugar,  1^ 
cups  farina,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Spread  with  cream  and 
bake  in  2  layers. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  545 

EGGLESS  CAKE. — Cream  together  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  2  teaspoons  cocoa,  flour  to  mix  a  little  stiffer  than  layer  cake. 
— Mrs.  C.  A.  Kramer,  Argo,  111. 

FIG  CAKE. — Rub  together  Yz  cup  sugar  and  Yz  cup  shorten- 
ing; add  Yi  cup  sour  milk,  ^  teaspoon  soda,  a  little  salt,  ^  cup 
oatmeal,  mixed  in  flour;  make  into  dough.  Take  half  the  dough, 
roll  out  and  put  on  bottom  of  pan,  then  spread  with  figs  or  other 
fruit.  Roll  remainder  of  dough  and  put  on  top,  and  cook  until 
done. — Mrs.  D.  A.  Dawson,  Hollywood,  111. 

FIVE  MINUTE  CAKE.— Mix  together  whites  of  2  eggs,  Y^ 
cup  butter,  Y2  cup  cold  water,  a  little  salt,  \Y2  cups  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons cream  tartar,  1  teaspoon  of  soda;  flavor.  Put  all  in  a  dish 
together  and  beat  for  5  minutes,  then  bake. — Mrs.  Lee  Cardinal, 
Bellwood,  111. 

FRUIT  CAKE.— Cream  together  1  cup  of  butter  and  3  of 
brown  sugar;  add  J/2  cup  molasses,  Y^  teaspoon  of  cloves,  2  of 
cinnamon,  1  of  mace,  1  of  nutmeg,  ^  cup  cold  cofifee,  Y2.  cup  jelly, 
1  teaspoon  of  soda  with  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  sifted  in  5  cups  of  flour.  Flour  well  4  cups  of  seeded  rai- 
sins, 2  of  currants,  1  of  cut  dates,  adding  ^  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder.  Add  2  chopped  apples  and  2  eggs.  Bake  in  papered 
pans,  putting  first  a  layer  of  batter,  next  one  of  figs,  citron,  orange, 
and  lemon  peel,  etc.  Bake  from  lYz  to  3  hrs.  in  a  moderate  oven. 
—Mrs.  M.  Kronenbitter,  1003  S.  6th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

BUTTERMILK  FRUIT  CAKE.— Beat  together  2  cups  but- 
termilk, 2  cups  raisins,  2  cups  currants,  2  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
shortening,  2  teaspoons  soda,  4  cups  flour,  spice  to  suit  taste.  Put 
it  in  pan  ready  for  the  oven,  then  let  it  rise  over  night. — Mrs.  C. 
E.  Wales,  Berwyn,  111. 

HONEY  FRUIT  CAKE.— Warm  ^  cup  butter,  Y2  cup  honey, 
and  Y^  cup  apple  jelly  or  sweet  cider,  slightly;  add  2  beaten  eggs, 
then  1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water;  add  spices 
to  taste,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stifif  batter;  then  stir  in  1  tea- 
cup each  of  raisins  and  dried  currants,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 
Keep  in  a  covered  jar  several  weeks  before  using. — Mrs.  C.  A. 
Love,  Homewood,  111. 


546  CAKE 

SOUTHERN  FRUIT  CAKE.— Brown  1  lb.  of  , flour  in  the 
oven,  stirring  occasionally,  sift,  chop  1  lb.  pecan  meats,  and  slice  1 
lb.  each  of  candy,  orange,  citron,  and  lemon  peel;  add  these  and  1 
lb.  of  currants,  and  1  lb.  raisins  to  the  flour,  and  beat  all  up  to- 
gether; then  add  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Cream  1  lb.  sugar 
and  1  lb.  of  butter,  and  add  12  beaten  eggs,  and  1  cup  molasses;  add 
to  the  other  ingredients  and  season  with  1  teaspoon  each  of  nut- 
meg, cloves,  allspice;  a  gill  of  brandy  may  be  used  in  the  cake  or 
may  be  brushed  over  it  each  week  for  2  months,  allowing  the  flavor 
to  permeate  it.  Bake  from  3  to  4  hrs.,  or  steam  3  hrs.  and  bake  1 
hr,,  or  put  in  fireless  cooker  all  day,  heating  the  stones  twice.  This 
makes  a  6-lb.  cake. — Mrs.  G.  E.  Hamilton,  508  S.  4th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111, 

VARIATION  I.— 1  lb.  of  currants,  1  lb.  of  raisins,  1  lb.  of 
citron,  1  lb.  butter,  1  lb.  flour,  1  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  each  candied 
orange  and  lemon  peel,  1  lb.  pecan  meats,  12  eggs,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  added  after  everything  else  is  in,  1  tea- 
spoon of  nutmeg,  chopped  nuts,  slice  peel,  roll  all  fruit  and  nuts  in 
flour,  beat  all  up  together,  then  add  the  baking  powder.  Bake  3 
or  4  hrs.,  or  steam  and  bake  1  hr.,  or  cook  in  fireless  cooker  all 
day,  heating  stones  about  twice.  Is  a  6-lb.  cake  when  done. — Mrs. 
G.  E.  Hamilton,  508  S.  4th  Ave.,  Ma>^ood,  111. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE.— Cream  together  2  cups  sugar  and  1 
cup  butter;  add  the  whites  of  8  eggs,  3  cups  flour,  in  which  sift  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  J/2  lb.  chopped  almonds,  1  cup  grated 
cocoanut,  Y^  glass  white  wine,  ^  lb.  fine  cut  citron.  Many  use 
water  instead  of  wine.  This  makes  2  loaves.  Bake  about  1  hr. — 
Mrs.  Jennie  Rice,  Bartlett,  111. 

FUDGE  CAKE. — Cream  together  1  cup  sugar,  Yj,  cup  butter; 
add  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2J^  cups  flour,  in  which  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder  has  been  sifted,  stir  in  J4  cup  chocolate,  melted;  add  J/2  cup 
walnuts,  broken  up,  and  lastly  3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
separately. 

Fudge  Frosting. — Melt  1]^  teaspoons  butter,  add  H  cup  cocoa, 
a  few  grains  salt,  1^  cups  sugar  and  J4  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanil- 
la.    Boil  8  minutes. — Mrs.  Lee  Fletcher,  Dalton,  111. 

GINGER  BREAD. — Ij/^  cups  molasses,  sift  in  it  1  teaspoon  soda, 
beat  well,  and  leave  it  10  or  15  minutes;  then  add  y^  cup  boiling 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  547 

water,  J^  cup  melted  butter,  a  little  salt,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinna- 
mon and  ginger,  and  mix  with  flour. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Grady,  Morton 
Grove,  111. 

FRUIT  GINGER  BREAD.— Cream  together  V2  cup  brown 
sugar,  Yi  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sour  milk^  ^  cup  molasses,  2  cups 
sifted  flour,  Y^  tablespoon  ginger,  Y^  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  a 
little  water,  2  eggs,  2  cups  raisins,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  spice  to 
taste.  Put  soda  in  last,  when  well  mixed. — Mrs.  Martin  Cullen, 
Harvey,  111.' 

GEKIifAN  ''•;>^.;:^EL.HO^-i^6N."— Beat  H  lb.  butter  and  1  cup 
of  sugar  to  a  cream,  or  about  Y2  hr.  Add  alternately  1  egg,  some 
flour,  a  little  sweet  cream,  until  5  eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,  and  1  pt.  of 
cream  are  used.  Add  the  juice  and  rind  of  Y2  lemon.  Dissolve  2 
cakes  of  compressed  yeast  in  a  little  warm  milk.  Mix  the  yeast 
with  the  rest  and  put  into  a  greased  form  and  let  stand  until  it  is 
double  the  size.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Schmalzried, 
Maywood,  III. 

HOT  WATER  CAKE.— Beat  2  eggs  well,  then  add  1  cup 
sugar,  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  pour  J^  cup  of  hot  boiling  water 
over  it;  add  1  cup  flour  with  XYz  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  a 
little  salt;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  loaf  or  layer. — Mrs.  F.  E. 
Ellington,  Oaklawn,  111. 

JAM  CAKE. — Cream  J^  cup  butter  and  1  cup  sugar,  add  3 
eggs,  unbeaten;  beat  well,  and  add  3  tablespoons  of  sour  milk,  then 
1  cup  of  jam,  jelly  or  any  kind  of  canned  fruit;  bake  in  layers  and 
frost  with  white  icing. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Corbett,  Orland,  111. 

JELLY  ROLL. — Cream  together  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  2 
eggs;  add  XYi  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  Y2  teaspoon 
soda,  2  tablespoons  hot  water,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  until 
light,  add  the  sugar  and  salt,  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Sift  the  flour 
and  cream  of  tartar  together  twice,  add  to  the  above  and  beat 
until  light;  then  add  the  soda,  dissolved  in  the  hot  water,  put  in  a 
flat  pan,  and  bake  10  or  15  minutes.  Take  out  on  a  napkin,  spread 
the  under  side  with  jelly,  and  roll. — Mrs.  Don  Brown,  Hazel  Crest, 
111. 

JUMBO  CAKE. — Cream  1  cup  butter  and  2  cups  sugar;  add 
beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  then  spices  to  taste;  mix  with  2  cups  bread 


548  CAK^E 

dough  and  1  lb.  raisins,  and  well  beaten  whites  oi  4  eggs;  then  1 
teaspoon  dissolved  soda.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  1^  hrs. — Mrs. 
B.  E.  Dallas,  Orland,  111. 

APPLE  KUCHEN  (German).— Beat  V2  cup  of  butter;  add  ^ 
cup  of  sugar.  2  eggs,  rind  and  juice  of  Yz  lemon,  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
cinnamon,  enough  flour  to  roll  dough.  Slice  6  apples  in  eighths. 
Put  the  apples  on  the  crust,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 
Beat  the  yolk  of  1  egg  in  one  dish  and  whites  in  another.  Add  XYz 
tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  vanilla  to  white,  and  yolk. 
Spread   over   apples,   and    bake. — Airs.    Schmal/ried.    Maywood.    111. 

BUND  KUCHEN.— 1  yeast  cake,  5  oz.  butter,. 4  oz.  sugar,  VA 
pts.  flour,  1  cup  milk^  4  eggs,  adding  1  at^a  time_,  rind  of  a  lemon. 
Bake  1   hr.— Mrs.  Klug,  25  X.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE.— Mix  well  1^  cups  granulated 
sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  nearly  a  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  and  add  the  beaten  whites  of  6  eggs.  Bake 
in  2  layers. 

Frosting. — 2  cups  granulated  sugar,  ^  cup  of  water;  boil 
until  it  strings.  To  half  of  this  ^add  1  cup  finely  chopped  raisins 
and  1  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  put  between  layers  with  plain  icing  on 
top.— Mrs.  David  E.  Allen,  423  9th  St.,  Wilmette.  111.    - 

For  Layer  and  Loaf  Cakes,  see  Index. 

MINUTE  CAKE.— Beat  3  eggs  1  minute;  1^/^  cups  granulatexi 
sugar,  beat  together  5  minutes,  1  cup  flour,  beat  1  minute,  Yo  cup 
of  hot  water.  1  cup  of  flour,  into  which  put  lYi  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  beat  1  minute;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven;  do  not  open  the 
door  for  15  minutes. — Mrs.  Chester  Cushman,  Niles  Center,  111. 

PEANUT  CAKE.— Cream  together  4  tablespoons  butter,  1 
cup  sugar  and  the  beaten  yolk  of  1  ^gg',  add  ^  cup  flour,  sifted  with 
XYz  teaspoons  baking  powder  twice,  Y2  cup  milk,  and  another  Ya, 
cup  of  flour.  Lastly,  fold  in  1  cup  finely  choped  peanuts  and  the 
stiffly  beaten  white  of  the  q^%Z-  Bake  in  a  loaf. — Mrs.  R.  E.  Tur- 
ner, Hazel  Crest,  111. 

PEANUT  POUND  CAKE.— Have  the  ingredients  nearly  ice 
cold.  Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  adding  sifted  sugar  gradually. 
When  stiff,  add  a  little  ice  water  and  add  more  sugar.     Beat,  add 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  549 

more  water,  sugar,  and  Yz  the  lemon  juice,  using  1  cup  sugar  and 
1  tablespoon  ice  water  in  all.  Stir  into  this  mixture  Yz  cup  of 
sifted  nut  meal,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  ^  cup  of  sliced  citron.  Beat 
the  whites  of  3  or  4  small  eggs  to  a  stifif  froth,  with  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Add  Yz  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  and  beat  until  dry  and  feathery. 
Slide  the  beaten  whites  on  the  yolk  mixture,  sprinkle  some  nut 
meal  over  them,  sift  on  a  little  flour  and  chop  in  lightly.  Add 
more  meal  and  flour  until  1  cup  of  sifted  nut  meal  and  Y^  to  % 
cup  of  pastry  flour  is  used  in  the  whole  cake.  Chop,  taking  care 
not  to  mix  too  much.  Put  into  a  pan  at  once  and  bake  slowly  in 
an  oven  that  bakes  well  from  the  bottom.  Handle  carefully. — 
Mr?.  E.  D.  Kellcy,  Winnetka,  111. 

PINEAPPLE  CAKE.— Cream  together  3  eggs,  J^  cup  butter 
and  1  cup  sugar,  add  J/2  cup  sweet  milk,  XYz  cups  flour,  sifted  well, 
\Y2.  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavor  with  Y\  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake 
in  layers.  For  the  filling  take  ^  grated  pineapple,  1  grated  lemon, 
y^  cup  milk,  teaspoon  corn  starch.  Let  it  boil  until  it  thick- 
ens.— Mrs.  Charles  Clenton,  Harvey,  111. 

PEPPER  CAKE.— Cream  together  2  eggs,  Yz  cup  butter,  Y^ 
cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  syrup;  add  %  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  Yk  teaspoon  black  pepper,  ^  nutmeg, 
1  cup  raisins,  2  cups  flour. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Babcock,  Hollywood,  111. 

POOR  MAN'S  CAKE.— 1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water,  1  cup 
of  raisins;  Y2.  of  lard,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  Y2  teaspoon  of 
cloves.  Boil  until  the  raisins  swell.  When  cool  add  a  pinch  of 
salt,  2^  cups  flour  and  Ij^  teaspoons  of  soda.  Bake  ^  of  an  hf. — 
Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  III 

POOR  MAN'S  CAKE  WITHOUT  EGGS.— Cream  together  4 
tablespoons  melted  lard  and  butter  and  1  cup  brown  sugar;  add  1 
cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  flour,  nutmeg 
and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Beat  to  a  stifif  batter  and  bake  in  loaf  or 
layer. — Mrs.  Roger  Pickett,  Evergreen  Park,  111. 

PORK  CAKE.— Pour  over  1  lb.  fat,  salt  pork,  free  from  lean, 
ground,  3  cups  of  boiling-water;  add  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  syrup,  in 
which  2  tablespoons  saleratus  have  been  dissolved,  2  teaspoons 
of  cloves,  2  grated  nutmegs,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  1  lb.  raisins, 
r  lb.   currants,    Y2    lb.   citron,    1   lb.    dates,    Ya   lb.   English   walnuts. 


550  CAKE 

Flour  to  make  a  good  cake  batter.  This  cake  requires  no  milk, 
eggs  or  butter,  and  will  keep  a  year. — Mrs.  E.  J.  McGrath,  315  S. 
5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

POTATO  CAKE.— Cream  together  2  cups  of  sugar  and  1  of 
butter,  add  4  beaten  eggs,  2  cups  of  milk,  IJ^  mashed  potatoes,  10 
cents  worth  chopped  almonds,  1  bar  grated  chocolate,  2^^  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  sifted  in  2^^  cups  of  flour.  Flavor  with  1^ 
teaspoons  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice, — Mrs,  S.  Mensior, 
1109  S.  7th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PUNCH  CAKE. — 5  eggs,  1  cup  grated  wheat  bread,  1  cup 
sugar,  5c  almonds,  5c  citron,  spices,  1  glass  lernonade.  Pour  over 
the  cake  when  done, — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

RAISIN  CAKE. — Cover  lYz  cups  raisins  (seeded)  with  water 
and  let  simmer  20  minutes.  Drain  this  juice  of?  and  use  J^  cup 
instead  of  milk.  Dredge  raisins  well  with  flour;  add  1  cup  sugar, 
^  cup  butter,  1^  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  sifted  in  flour,  1  egg, 
well  beaten,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  cloves,  add  a  little  salt  and 
nutmeg.  Bake  in  small  tins  or  as  a  loaf  cake  J^  hr. — Mrs.  Rose 
Mather,  Orland,  111, 

RASPBERRY  CAKE.— Cream  together  2  eggs,  1  oup  brown 
sugar;  add  J/2  cup  butter,  add  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  raspberry  jam,  4 
tablespoons  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^ 
nutmeg. — Mrs.  May  Newcomb,  Palos  Park,  111, 

RIBBON  CAKE.— Beat  together  1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar, 
add  3  beaten  eggs  and  beat  again,  then  1  cup  milk,  beating  well 
after  each  addition,  last  of  all  beat  in  3  cups  flour  in  which  1^  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  have  been  sifted.  Divide  the  batter  into 
four  parts,  coloring  one  with  melted  chocolate  and  another  with 
pink  cake  coloring,  and  a  third  with  vegetable  green.  Bake  in 
jelly  tins  and  put  together  with  a  filling, — Mrs.  Laura  Wilkinson, 
Grant  Works,  111. 

SNOW  CAKE. — V/i  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cream  yi  cup 
butter,  adding  gradually  1  cup  sugar  and  2  teaspoons  vanilla;  beat 
whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  J^  cup  milk,  then  1^  cups 
flour.     Use  chocolate  filling. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Rusk,  Riverside,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  GOOK  BOOK  5Sl 

SOUR  CREAM  CAKE.— Cream  together  3  cups  of  sugar  and 
6  eggs,  well  beaten,  2  cups  of  sour  cream  to  which  has  been  added 
2  small  teaspoons  of  soda,  5  cups  of  flour,  spice  and  fruit  to  taste. 
If  a  fruit  cake  is  desired,  add  more  fruit. — Mrs.  Alice  E.  Nelson, 
404  S.  1st  Ave.,  May  wood,  111. 

SPICE  CAKE. — Cream  1  cup  of  sugar  and  ^  cup  of  butter; 
add  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  small  teaspoon  of  soda  and  1  egg.  Use 
just  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  loaf.  Before  putting  into  pans 
add  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  of  allspice,  and  a  pinch 
of  cloves. — Mrs.  A.  Morgan,  429  19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

MARBLED  SPICE  CAKE.— Cream  H  cup  of  butter  and  2 
cups  sugar,  then  divide  into  equal  parts;  in  one  part  put  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  and  into  the  other  the  beaten  yolks.  Into 
the  light  part  put  ^  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  small  cups  of  flourv 
sifted  with  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Into  the  dark  part  put 
a  teaspoon  of  allspice,  cinnamon,  and  vanilla  extract,  and  a  %  tea- 
spoon of  ginger,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Stir  the  two  lightly  together, 
not  enough  to  mix  but  to  give  the  marbled  eflfect.  Bake  in  a  loaf. 
Boiled  white  frosting. — Mrs.  Bruce,  Maywood,  111. 

SPONGE  CAKE.— Beat  5  eggs  and  1  cup  of  sugar  15  min- 
utes; add  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract,  Ij^  cups 
water,  1  cup  flour,  sifted  3  times  with  1  teaspoon  erf  baking  powder. 
Put  into  oven  and  bake. — Alice  E.  Nelson,  404  S.  1st  St.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

VARIATION  I.— Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  7  eggs  sepa- 
rately. Put  a  level  cup  of  sugar  and  1  of  flour  (both  sifted  sepa- 
rately 3  times)  into  beaten  yolks.  Add  J/^  teaspoon  of  cream  of 
tartar  into  beaten  whites.  Then  mix  into  the  yellow  batter.  Add 
vanilla  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  sponge  cake  pan  in  a  slow  oven  for 
about  1  hr.— Mrs.  J.  W.  Marelius,  2329  Cornelia  St.,  Chicago,  III. 

STEAMED  CAKE.— Beat  together  2  eggs,  V/z  cups  sugar,  M 
cup  butter;  add  1  cup  currants,  1  cup  raisins,  2  tablespoons  mo- 
lasses, 1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  mixed  spices,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon baking  soda,  put  in  a  cup  and  dissolved  with  2  teaspoons 
of  vinegar,  fill  cup  with  buttermilk  and  add  to  cake.  Mix  stiflf 
with  flour,  put  in  a  dish  and  steam  2  hrs.,  then  bake  slowly  ^  an. 
hr,— Mrs.  E,  E.  Redding,  Riverdale,- III, 


552  CAKE 

STRAWBERRY  CAKE.— Cream  together  2  eggs,  }i  cup  but- 
ter, ^  cup  white  sugar,  2  small  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  table- 
spoon sour  cream.  Mix  all  together  and  put  in  1  cup  strawberries, 
and  bake  in  jell}^  cake  tins.  Use  strawberry  icing  and  filling  and 
place  whole  strawberries  on  top. — Mrs.  Hugh  Moafner,  Summit, 
III. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE.— Beat  whites  of  7  eggs  stiff;  add  1  cup 
of  sugar,  sifted;  beat  for  10  minutes.  Beat  the  7  yolks  stiff,  stir 
into  the  whites  slowly  and  careiuWy.  Sift  1  small  cup  of  flour  5 
times,  and  add  a  small  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  to  the  last  sift- 
ing. Add  flour  to  other  ingredients  very  slowly,  and  flavor  with 
14  teaspoon  of  vinegar.  Bake  45  minutes  in  a  very  slow  oven. — 
Mrs.  Gust  W.  Youngstedt,  403  S.  3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

HASTY  TEA  CAKE.— Mix  1  pt.  of  flour  with  butter  size  of 
an  egg.  Rub  well  with  2  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar;  add  1  tea- 
spoon of  soda  (if  preferred,  use  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  instead 
of  tartar  and  soda).  Add  1  cup  of  cold  water,  making  a  stiff  bat- 
ter. Bake  on  tin  for  tea.  Bake  quickly. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Jeffries,  Win- 
netka,  111. 

WALNUT  CAKE.— Beat  ^  cup  butter  in  2  cups  white  sugar; 
add  1  cup  sweet  milk,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  1  tea- 
spoon soda  and  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  4  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  flavor 
with  vanilla,  and  bake  slowly.  Frost  with  chocolate  frosting  with 
walnuts  on  top. — Mrs.  Jud.  Hastings,  Park  Ridge,  111. 

"  WALNUT  AND  RAISIN  CAKE.— Cream  together  1  cup  su- 
gar and  ^2  cup  butter;  add  ^  cup  sweet  milk,  2  scant  cups  flour,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  y2  cup  walnut  meats  and  3  eggs.  Do 
not  mix  the  raisins  in  the  cake,  but  put  half  the  batter  in  the  tins 
and  then  sprinkle  1  cup  raisins  over  it  and  pour  in  the  rest  of  the 
batter  and  it  will  bake  nicely. — Mrs.  C.  E.   Burchill,  Stickney,  111. 

WHITE  CAKE.— Put  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  into  a  cup 
with  a  lump  of  butter,  fill  with  milk  and  pour  into  V/2  cups  flour, 
sifted  2  or  3  times  with  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Beat  all 
together  for  5  minutes,  and  flavor  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  moderately 
fast  oven.— Mrs.  E.  J.  McGrath,  315  S.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

DOUGHNUTS.— Put  about  1^2  lbs.  of  lard  on  stove  to  melt 
(or  about  3  inches  deep  in  pan).     Beat  1   egg  thoroughly;   add   K> 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         553 

cup  sugar  (put  through  sieve),  Y^  teaspoon  salt,  about  Yz  of  a 
nutmeg  (grated),  flavor  with  vanilla;  beat  all  together  thoroughly, 
then  add  1  tablespoon  of  the  melted  (not  hot)  lard,  beat  again; 
then  add  an  even  Y^  cup  of  sour  milk  into  which  has  been  stirred 
a  Yi  teaspoon  of  soda  until  it  is  foamy.  Mix  with  the  above  and 
then  gradually  add  flour,  with  a  scant  ^  teaspoon  baking  powder 
in  it,  until  like  stifif  cake  batter.  Stir  hard  and  then  mix  into  a  soft 
dough  and  roll  out  about  1  inch  thick;  cut  into  shapes  and  drop 
into  hot  lard.  To  try  fat,  drop  piece  of  dough  in,  and  if  right  tem- 
perature it  will  immediately  rise  to  top  and  begin  to  swell.  Keep 
turning  cakes  until  done. — Mrs.  H.  P.  Wilkins,  5114  Kenmore  Ave., 
Chicago,  III. 

VARIATION  I.— Rub  together  1  ^z^,  1  cup  light  brown  su- 
gar, 1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  tablespoons  melted  lard,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
nutmeg  to  taste,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  soft,  and  cut. 
Fry  in  deep  fat.  When  taken  from  kettle  drain  on  brown  paper 
and  dust  with  pulverized  sugar. — Mrs.  Wm.  P.  Williams,  4463 
Woodlawn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

BREAKFAST  DOUGHNUTS.— 2  cups  of  sugar,  1  of  white 
and  1  of  brown  sugar,  \Yi  cups  of  sour  milk,  1  pinch  of  salt,  2  table- 
spoons of  melted  lard,  2  eggs.  Flavor  to  taste.  Flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  A.  Morgan,  429  19th 
Ave.,  Miaywood,  111. 

DOMINO  CAKE  FOR  CHILDREN'S  PARTIES.— Make  a 

sponge  cake  or  any  other  simple  cake  mixture.  Bake  in  shallow 
tins,  making  cake  about  Y2.  inch  thick,  when  baked.  When  cool, 
ice  with  white  icing.  Allow  this  to  set;  then  with  a  sharp  knife  cut 
it  into  small  oblongs,  about  3  inches  long  by  IJ^  inches  wide; 
melt  a  little  chocolate  and  with  a  small  brush  paint  spots  to  repre- 
sent dominoes.  If  wished,  the  little  cakes  may  be  split  open  and 
spread  with  jam  before  icing. — Mrs,  Clarence  Clarkson,  Hubbard 
Woods,  111. 

FRENCH  CRULLERS.— Cream  Y\  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar; 
add  2  eggs,  yolks  beaten;  add  3  cups  flour,  sifted  with  3  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  Ya  teaspoon  salt,  Y2  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  Y\  nutmeg,  1  cup  milk.  Fold  in  3  ^g^  whites,  beaten 
stiff.     Add  enough  flour  to  make  stiff.     Cut  into  oblong  squares. 


554  CAKE 

Run  fingers  in  and  out.     Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. — Mrs.  Ben 
B'arnett,  Tessville,  111. 

MACAROONS  OF  NUTS.— Pound  the  meats  of  hickory  nuts, 
and  add  nutmeg  and  allspice.  Make  a  frosting  as  for  cake,  stir- 
ring in  the  nuts  and  spices.  Butter  the  hands  and  work  into  little 
balls  the  size  of  hickory  nuts;  place  them  on  buttered  tins  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven.  They  will  spread  a  little  on  the  tins. — Mrs.  C.  E. 
Orland,  Palos  Park,  111. 

SURPRISE  MACAROONS.— 2  rounded  tablespoons  butter, 
4  eggs,  2  level  cups  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  of 
salt,  2  teaspoons  vanilla,  4  cups  full  Quaker  oats.  Beat  up  stifi, 
adding  more  oats,  if  necessary;  pick  up  with  fingers  about  a  tea- 
spoonful  and  drop  far  apart  on  well-buttered  tins.  They  will 
spread.  Bake  brown  in  slow  oven.  When  done  wait  until  partly 
cool  before  removing  from  pans.  If  too  hot  they  will  curl  up. — 
Mrs.  William  P.  Williams,  4463  Woodlawn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

SWEDISH  MACAROONS.— 12  oz.  shredded  almonds,  4  oz. 
ground  almonds,  4  oz.  corn  starch,  2  whole  eggs,  grated  rind  of  2 
oranges;  sift  1  lb.  sugar  and  4  oz.  corn  starch  through  sieve  twice; 
add  12  oz.  shredded  almonds,  and  4  oz.  ground  almonds,  grated 
rind  of  2  oranges,  and  2  eggs,  beaten  light,  without  separating. 
With  buttered  hands  shape  mixture  into  balls  the  size  of  walnuts; 
bake  in  slow  oven  on  tins  with  waxed  or  oiled  paper. — Mrs.  C.  E. 
Nelson,  Thornton,  111. 

RAISIN  PUFFS.— To  2  beaten  eggs  add  ^  cup  milk,  add  2 
cups  flour,  sifted  with  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder;  add  1 
cup  seeded  raisins,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  steam  Y^  hr.-  in  buttered  cup.  Serve  with  a  good  pudding 
sauce. — Mrs.  Mary  Camming,  West  Hammond,  111. 

GROUND  RICE  CHEESE  CAKES.— Mix  1  tablespoon  of 
ground  rice  smoothly  with  2  tablespoons  of  milk,  and  pour  over  J4 
pt.  of  boiling  milk.  Stir  3  or  4  minutes,  till  thick,  adding  1  oz.  of 
butter  and  4  lumps  of  sugar,  which  have  been  well  rubbed  on  the 
rind  of  a  fresh  lemon.  When  cold,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  well 
beaten,  and  a  dessertspoon  of  lemon  juice.  Line  some  patty  pans 
with  a  puff  paste,  fill  three  parts  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  555 

quick  oven.     Before  baking  dust  over  with  powdered  cinnamon  or 
grated  lemon  rind. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Watkins,  Grossdale,  111. 

COOKIES 

COOKIES. — 7  oz.  sugar,  ^  lb.  grated  hazlenuts,  beaten  whites 
of  3  eggs.     Stir  J^  hr.  in  one  direction. — Mrs.  Herman  Klug,  25  N. 

5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

* 
ALICE  COOKIES. — Beat  1  egg  with  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  cup 
of  sour  milk,  in  which  has  been  stirred  l^  teaspoon  of  soda  and  ^ 
teaspoon  salt.  Stir  stiff  with  flour,  in  which  has  been  sifted  J^ 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Put  the  dough  in  a  cool  place  for  an 
hr.,  then  roll  out  rather  thin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  J. 
W.  Marelius,  2329  Cornelia  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

ALMOND  COOKIES  (German— very  good).  Beat  the 
whites  of  5  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  2  cups  of  powdered  sugar  and 
beat  together  for  ^  hr.  Then  add  14  lb.  of  ground  almonds,  juice 
of  1  lemon  and  J^  saltspoon  powdered  ammonia.  Shape  the  cook- 
ies like  a  star.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Frosting. — Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  pow- 
dered sugar  and  a  little  vanilla. — Mrs.  Schmalzried,  Maywood,  111. 

BUTTERMILK  COOKIES.— Cream  together  1  egg,  V/z  cups 
brown  sugar,  small  cup  buttermilk,  1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  1 
cup  currants,  1  teaspoon  soda,  little  nutmeg,  flour  to  roll,  sprinkle 
with  white  sugar,  and  nutmeg. — Mrs.  Robert  Davis,  Evergreen 
Park,  111. 

CINNAMON  COOKIES.— 1  large  sifter  full  of  flour,  1  large 
cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons 
cream  tartar.  Sift  all  well  together,  add  a  little  salt  and  good,  rich 
cream  to  make  into  a  dough,  roll  out  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — 
Mrs.  Henry  James,  Homewood,  111. 

CITRON  COOKIES  (German).— Beat  4  whole  eggs  with  2 
cups  of  sugar  for  J/^  hr.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract,  ]4  cup 
finely  chopped  lemon  and  citron  peel,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder.  Place  the  cookies  on  a  greased  pan  and  sprin- 
kle over  them  a  little  chopped  lemon  and  orange  peel.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Schmalzried,  Maywood,  111. 


556  CAKE 

COCOANUT  CREAM  COOKIES.— Beat  2  eggs  and  1  cup 
sugar  gradually,  then  ^  cup  shredded  cocoanut,  1  cup  cream, 
and  3  cups  flour,  with  3  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  1  teaspoon 
salt  sifted  in  it.  Toss  on  floured  board;  pat  and  roll  out  ^  inch 
thick,  sprinkle  with  cocoanut,  cut  and  bake  on  buttered  sheet. 
Seek  cookies  may  be  made  by  using  seeds  in  place  of  cocoanut. 
—Mrs.  R.  E.  Deering,  Oak  Park,  111. 

DATE  COOlO[ES. — Rub  together  2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup 
melted  butter,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  2  tablespoons  buttermilk,  1 
teaspoon  soda,  2^  cups  graham  flour,  2^  cups  white  flour.  Roll 
thin  and  put  dates  between. — Mrs  R.  A.  Turner,  Franklin  Park, 
111. 

FIG  COOKIES.— Take  Y-z  lb.  figs.  Chopped  fine,  and  place  in 
a  causepan  on  the  stove.  Add  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  water; 
boil  till  thick,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Then  take  a  small  cup  full 
of  white  sugar,  ^  cup  butter  and  lard,  ^  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  oat 
meal,  a  small  teaspoon  of  soda,  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough; 
roll  out  and  spread  figs  between;  cut  in  squares  and  bake. — Mrs. 
C.  C.  Bettleheim,  Golf,  111. 

FlilED  CAKES.— Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  and  2  table- 
spoons of  shortening;  add  2  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  sour  milk,  in  which 
1  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  dissolved,  and  2  cups  of  flour.  Mix 
and  roll  about  H  inch  thick,  cut.  Drop  into  hot  lard  in  which 
there  is  a  peeled  potato  to  keep  lard  from  burning;  they  will  come 
to  top  of  lard  when  light.  Fry  a  dark  brown;  when  done,  remove 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar. — Mrs.  Lighthart,  811  N.  19th  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 

FRUIT  COOKIES.— 1  qt.  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  4  table- 
spoons butter,  rubbed  into  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  currants  with 
y^.  orange  peel,  cut  fine;  add  enough  sour  milk  to  make  a  soft 
dough;  roll  5^  inch  thick,  cut  any  shape  desired;  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  for  20  minutes.  Nice  eaten  warm  with  maple  syrup. — 
Mrs.  Robt.  Pratt,  Glenview,  111. 

GINGER  COOKIES. — Mix  together  1  tablespoon  ginger,  1 
cup  syrup,  54  cup  lard,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  and  let  come  to  a 
boil;  then  add  to  this  just  before  removing  from  the  stove,  1  tea- 
spoon soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.     Let  this  mix,  cool, 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         557 

and  then  add  enough  flour  to  roll  out  thin, — Mrs.  C.  C.  Clevenger, 
Glenwood,  111. 

GINGER  CAKES.— Mix  ^  cup  butter,  Yz  cup  sugar,  1  cup 
molasses,  ^  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  ginger,  2 
level  teaspoons  of  soda  in  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Let  stand  until 
cold.  Then  stir  in  2^/2  cups  flour  and  2  well-beaten  eggs.  Bake  in 
hot  oven  for  20  minutes. — Mrs.  Harry  Stearns,  134  S.  19th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

GRAHAM  COOKIES.— Beat  to  a  cream  ^  cup  butter,  add 
gradually  1  cup  granulated  sugar  and  the  unbeaten  white  of  1  t^%', 
beat  vigorously  for  2  minutes;  dissolve  Yt.  teaspoon  soda  in  8  table- 
spoons warm  water,  add,  and  then  stir  in  slowly  1  qt.  graham  flour. 
Knead  until  smooth,  roll  out  a  little  at  a  time  into  a  sheet  as  thin 
as  a  wafer.  Cut  in  squares,  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  crisp  and 
brown.  Rye  mccil  may  be  used  instead  of  graham. — Mrs.  L.  E. 
Worth,  Orland,  111. 

GRAPENUT  COOKIES.— Mix  1  cup  grapenut,  1  cup  sugar, 
rub  in  1  cup  shortening,  butter  and  lard  mixed,  add  a  scant  3^  cup 
milk,  J/2  teaspoon  soda,  Y2  teaspoon  baking  powder,  spices  to  taste, 
cinnamon  or  cloves,  and  flour  to  make  stiff.  Roll,  cut  and  bake. — 
Mrs.  Lew  Brott,  Grant  Works,  111. 

HAZLENUT  CAKES.— Mince  very  finely  2  oz.  of  hazlenuts 
and  Y2  oz.  of  sweet  almonds.  Add  3  oz.  of  pounded  and  sifted 
sugar,  the  white  of  an  t^z,  beaten  to  a  firm  froth,  enough  flour  to 
bind  them  together.  Roll  out  the  paste  till  it  is  Ya  inch  thick, 
stamp  it  out  in  small,  round  cakes,  place  on  well-buttered  tins, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  20  minutes. — Mrs,  E.  D.  Kelley,  Wiin- 
netka,  HI. 

LADY  FINGERS. — Rub  together  1  cup  granulated  sugar  and 
Yz  cup  butter;  add  Ya  cup  sweet  milk,  1  egg,  2  cups  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon cream  tartar,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  vanilla;  roll  in 
sugar;  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Use  your  hands  to  roll  and  cut  in 
finger  lengths. — Mrs.  Betty  Baker,  Edison,  111. 

GERMAN  *'LEBKUCKEN"  COOKIES.— Beat  4  whole  eggs 
with  2  cups  of  sugar  about  Yz  an  hr.  Add  4  figs,  rind  of  1  lemon, 
Ya  lb.  each  of  citron  and  lemon  peel,  finely  chopped.     Then  add  1 


558  CAKE 

taMespoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  cocoa,  2  cups  of  flour,  and  1 
saltspoon  of  powdered  ammonia.  Put  the  dough  on  a  floured 
board,  roll  out  and  shape  into  3-inch  squares.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven. 

Frosting. — Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  pow- 
dered sugar  and  a  little  vanilla. — Mrs.  Schmalzried,  Maywood,  111. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  COOKIES.— Mix  together  2  large  cups  ma- 
ple sugar,  2  eggs;  rub  in  1   cup  butter;  add  2  tablespoons  sweet 
milk,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  Yz  teaspoon  soda,  and  flour  enough^ 
to  roll  soft. — Mrs.  Alex.  Ritchie,  Oaklawn,  111. 

MARSHMALLOW  WAFERS.— Put  1  cup  sugar  and  ^  cup 
water  in  a  smooth  graniteware  saucepan,  bring  to  boiling  point  or 
let  boil  till  the  syrup  will  thread  when  chopped  from  tip  of  spoon. 
Remove  to  back  of  range  and  add  10  m.arshmallows,  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Pour  mixture  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  over 
the  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  stiflf,  and  add  1  cup  pecan  nut  meats, 
broken  in  small  pieces. — Mrs,  M.  A.  Bailey,  Forest  Park,  111. 

RAISED  MOLASSES  COOKIES.— Dissolve  3  teaspoons  soda 
in  lyz  cups  molasses;  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  cold  water,  2  tea- 
spoons ginger,  a  little  salt;  add  1  cup  shortening  and  stir  veY"y 
thoroughly,  and  then  add  4  teaspoons  alum  water;  add  flour  to 
make  a  mixture  the  consistency  of  cake  batter.  Let  stand  over 
night;  add  flour  ih  morning  to  make  stiff  enough  to  roll  out  and 
bake. — Mrs.  C.  E,  Remington,  Oak  Glen,  111, 

OATMEAL  COOKIES.— Cream  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  heaping 
cup  of  lard  together.     Add  2  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  • 
1  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  2  cups  oatmeal,  J^  cup  each  of  raisins  and  currants. — 
Mrs.  Frederic  Sharp,  700  S.  3rd  Ave.,   Maywood,   111. 

PEANUT  COOKIES.— Mix  together  1  cup*  sugar,  2  eggs,  4 
tablespoons  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  soda,  1  teaspoon 
cream  tartar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  cup  chopped  peanuts. — Mrs. 
C.  E.  Kramer,  Oak  Glen,  111. 

RAISIN  COOKIES.— Mix  together  V4  cups  brown  sugar,  % 
cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  stoned  raisins,  1  tablespoon  cream,  ^2  tea- 
spoon soda,  K  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  3  cups  flour, 
roll  54-inch  thick. — Mrs.  Chas.  Kearns,  Niles  Center,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  559 

ROCKS. — Cream  together  1  cup  butter  and  1^4  cups  sugar; 
add  3  beaten  eggs,  2  cups  of  cream,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  ^  tea- 
spoon of  allspice,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  water 
and  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  sifted  in  2y2  cups  flour,  T  lb. 
dates  and  1  lb.  of  English  walnuts,  each  cut  fine.  Stir  all  thor- 
oughly together  and  drop  on  buttered  tins.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
12  minutes.— Mrs.  C.  K.  Wurtz,  216  S.  2nd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

GERMAN  "S"  COOKIES.— Beat  J^  lb.  of  butter,  the  yolks  of 
5  eggs  and  1  cup  of  sugar  about  I/2  an  hr.  Add  1  teaspoon  of 
lemon  extract,  2  cups  of  flour  and  }i  teaspoon  of  powdered  am- 
monia. Shape  like  the  letter  "S."  Let  stand  over  night.  The 
next  morning  beat  the  white  of  an  egg  in  one.  dish;  in  another 
have  ready  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  and  ^  cup  of  sugar.  Take 
each  cooky,  put  it  in  the  white  of  the  egg  and  sprinkle  with  the 
sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs,  Schmalz- 
ried,  Maywood,  111. 

SCOTCH  SHORTBREAD.— 2  lbs.  flour,  1  lb.  butter,  (1/2  lb. 
butter  and  ^  lb,  lard  may  be  used),  ^2  lb,  brown  sugar.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  together;  add  flour.  Mix  ingredients  thoroughly, 
but  add  no  liquid.  Roll  thin  and  cut  in  small  cakes. — Mrs.  C.  E. 
MacDarrow,  Niles,  111. 

SWEDISH  COOKIES.— Cream  together  1  lb.  of  butter,  1 
large  cup  sugar  and  2  eggs,  well  beaten.  Flavor  with  almond 
extract,  and  flour  enough  to  make  stiff.  Roll  and  cut.  Bake. — 
Alice  E.  Nelson,  404  S.  1st  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

SWEET  CRACKERS.— Mix  1  cup  of  lard  and  U/z  K:ups  of 
sugar  together;  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  pt.  of  sweet  milk,  3 
tablespoons  of  baking  ammonia,  and  5  cents  worth  of  lemon  oil,  and 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  thin  as  pie-crust,  cut  in  squares  and  stick 
with  a  stiff  dough.  These  crackers  will  keep  for  months. — Mrs. 
J.  C.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111, 

TEA  CAKES. — Mix  together  V/s  cups  each  of  molasses  and 
lard;  add  1  cup  white  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  soda, 
1  teaspoon  each  of  cinanmon  and  cloves,  1  qt,  of  flour,  1  cup  water; 
let  stand  for  2  hrs.  before  rolling. — Mrs.  Frederic  Sharp,  700  S. 
3rd  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


560  CAKE 

YORKSHIRE  PARKIN.— Mix  2  lbs.  flour  and  1  lb.  Scotch 
oatmeal;  add  2  lbs.  syrup,  Y^  lb.  sugar,  Yz  lb.  butter,  1  oz.  ginger, 

1  teaspoon  carbonate  soda;  add  a  little  milk,  if  required,  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Bake  in  a  buttered  tin  and  cut  into  s.quare5. — Mrs.  Ralph 
Lang,  Congress  Park,  111. 

WHEATLET  COOKIES.— Rub  thoroughly  together  2  cups 
wheatlets,  2Y2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  brown 
sugar,  Yi  cup  lard  and  Y^  cup  butter;  then  add  Y2  cup  sweet  milk. 
Mix  into  dough  and  roll  out  thin,  cut  and  bake.  These  are  still 
better  with  dates  between. — Mrs.  S.  A.  Sanderson,  Morton  Grove, 
111. 

WHITE  COOKIES.— Cream  together  1  cup  sugar,  Y2  cup 
equal  parts  o<f  butter  and  lard;  add  1  beaten  t%^,  Ya  teaspoon  of 
nutmeg,  a  little  salt,  1  cup  milk  and  flour  to  make  stiff,  in  which 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  has  been  sifted.  Roll,  cut,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  C.  K.  Wurtz,  216  S.  2nd  Ave.,  May- 
wood,  111. 


ICE  CREAM 


COFFEE  FRAPPE.— -Dissolve  Ya  cup  of  sugar  in  a  quart 
of  clear,  black  coffee  and  freeze.  Serve  in  frappe  cups  or  glasses 
with  whipped  cream  as  a  garnish,  A  forcing  bag  with  star  tube 
is  of  assistance  in  placing  the  cream. — Mrs.  Louis  Worth,  Ever- 
green Park,  111. 

AUNT  JULIA'S  ICE  CREAM.— Scald  1  qt.  milk,  beat  3  eggs, 
2  cups  sugar  and  2  tablespoons  of  flour  together,  add  to  milk 
when  hot,  stirring  constantly.  Let  cool,  add  1  cup  cream  and 
flavoring.  For  the  freezing,  use  3  parts  ice  to  1  of  salt;  have  ice 
fine  and  mix  thoroughly  with  salt  in  a  pan  before  packing. — Mrs 
Leo  Westgate,  Palatine,  111. 

BURNT  ALMOND  ICE  CREAM.— Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs 
light,  add  to  them  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1  pint  of  hot  milk.  Pi^t 
over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler,  cook  until  the  mixture  thickens 
like  a  custard,  take  from  the  fire,  whip  in  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  when  the  mixture  is  cold  stir  in  slightly 
Yi,  pint  of  sweet  cream,  whipped  stiff,  1  cup  of  almonds,  which 
have  been  shelled,  blanched,  chopped  fine,  browned  in  2  table- 
spoons of  caramel  sugar,  and  pounded  to  a  coarse  powder.  Flavor 
with  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  Yz  teaspoon  of  almond  extract. 
Freeze. — Mrs.  Clement  Rooker,  Morton  Grove,  111. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM.— To  1  qt.  milk,  add  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  1  qt.  cream,  1  lb.  sugar,  and  1  qt.  of  very  strong,  clear 
coffee.  The  whole  may  be  mixed  together  cold,  but  as  a  rule  the 
cream  is  always  richer  if  the  milk  is  scalded  with  the  sugar. 
The  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs  added  to  any  kind  of  ice  cream 
seem  to  make  it  less  heavy  and  more  velvety. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Can- 
thorn,  Niles  Center,  111. 

CONDENSED  MILK  ICE  CREAM.— When  cream  is  scarce 
condensed  milk  is  sometimes  used  as  a  substitute.  This  recipe 
will  make  2  quarts  of  the  frozen  cream.  Scald  1  can  condensed 
milk  and  Ij^  pts.  fresh  milk  together  and  turn  over  the  beaten 

561 


562       ,  ICE  CREAM 

yolks  of  2  eggs  Return  to  the  kettle  and  cook  until  creamy. 
Add  1  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar  and  when  cold  add  vanilla 
extract  and  freeze. — Mrs.  Willis  Bowman,  Palos  Park,  111. 

FRUIT  ICE  CREAM.— All  fruit  ice  creams  are  made  in  sub- 
stantially the  same  way  as  the  peach  cream^  but  where  seed  fruits, 
such  as  currants,  are  used,  the  carefully  strained  juice  only  must 
be  added.  This  can  be  put  in  the  freezer  with  the  cream  and 
not  reserved  until  later,  as  in  the  case  of  the  mashed  fruits. 
Grated  pineapple,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  lemon  juice  makes 
a  particularly  fine  fruit  cream. — Mrs.   Ed.  Davis,   Grass  Point,  111. 

GERMAN  ICE  CREAM.— Mix  1^  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
flour,  and  54  teaspoon  salt  Add  2  eggs,  slightly  beaten  and  2 
cups  scalded  milk.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  mixture  thickens 
and  add  2  squares  melted  chocolate  and  cool.  Add  3  cups  cream 
and  1  tablespoon  vanilla.  Strain  and  freeze.  Just  before  serving 
add  3  cups  zweiback  dried  and  broken  in  small  pieces. — Mrs.  Chris 
Umholdt,  Grass  Point,  111. 

ORANGE  ICE  CREAM.— 1  cup  water,  1  cup  heavy  cream, 
Va,  cup  shredded  candied  orange  peel.  Boil  2  cups  sugar  8  minutes 
and  then  add  2  cups  orange  juice.  Scald  1  cup  cream,  add  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  and  cook  over  hot  water,  until  mixture  thickens.  Cool, 
add  the  first  mixture  with  heavy  cream  beaten  stiff.  Freeze. 
When  nearly  frozen,  add  orange  peel.  Line  a  melon  mould  with 
orange  ice  cream.  Pack  in  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  1^^  hours. 
— Mrs.  C.  Anderson,  Golf,  111. 

RASPBERRY  VELVET.— Take  rich  juice  from  a  can  of  red 
raspberries;  strain  and  add  sugar  until  quite  sweet,  add  juice  of 
a  lemon  (and  2  oranges  if  desired).  Add  a  little  cold  water  if 
the  jttice  is  rich.  When  partly  frozen  add  beaten  whites  of  2 
eggs  and  turn  freezer  quickly  afterwards.  Currant  juite,  straw- 
berry juice,  pineapple  juice  or  cherry  may  be  used. — Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM.— Mash  with  a  potato  pounder 
in  an  earthen  bowl,  1  qt.  of  strawberries  with  1  lb.  of  sugar,  rub 
it  through  the  colander  and  add  1  qt.  of  sweet  cream  and  freeze. 
Very  ripe  peaches  or  coddled  apples  may  be  used  instead  of 
strawberries. — Mrs.  Lewella  Olson,  Forest  Park,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  '    '  563 

CHERRY  ICE. — Stem  and  stone  1  qt.  of  cherries,  crush  and 
cover  them  with  2  cups  of  sugar.  At  the  end  of  an  hour  squeeze 
the  cherries  through  a  vegetable  press  and  extract  all  the  juice. 
To  this  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  1  pt.  of  water  and  the  un- 
beaten whites  of  3  eggs.  Turn  all  into  a  freezer  and  grind  until 
you  have  a  firm,  light  ice.  Pack  the  freezer  in  ice  and  salt  for 
an  hour  after  the  dasher  is  removed. — Mrs.  Del  Williams,  Austin, 
111. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE.— Use  ]^  cup  of  maple  syrup  after  it  has 
boiled  down  thick.  Beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  stirred  into  the  hot 
syrup.  When  cold  add  1  pt.  whipped  cream.  Pack  in  mould  in 
chopped  ice  and  salt  and  let  stand  4  hours. — Mrs.  Wm.  P.  Wil- 
liams, 4463  Woodlawn  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PEACH,  STRAWBERRY  AND  RASPBERRY  MOUSSE.— 

1  pt.  of  double  cream,  1  cup  of  fruit  pulp  and  juice,  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  %  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  gelatin, 
softened  in  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  cold  water,  if  desired.  Dissolve 
the  sugar  in  hot  fruit  juice  and  pulp.  Cool  it,  add  the  gelatin  and 
then  the  cream  and  the  powdered  sugar  and  beat  until  solid 
to  the  bottom  of  the  bowl.  Pack  in  ice  and  leave  to  freeze. — 
Mrs.  Andrew  Bell,  Glenview,  111. 

GRAPE  JUICE  PARFAIT.— Boil  1  cup  sugar  and  ^  cup 
grape  juice  together  to  the  thread  degree  and  pour  in  a  fine 
stream  onto  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  until  foamy,  beating 
constantly;  when  cold,  fold  in  1  pt.  cream,  beaten  solid  with  ^ 
cup  of  grape  juice  and  the  juice  of  J/2  lemon  added  to  the  cream 
before  whipping.  Flavor,  turn  into  a  mould  and  let  stand  packed 
in  ice  and  salt  4  hours. — Mrs.  Sarah  Lenhardt,  Glenwood,  111. 

SUNSHINE  PARFAIT.— 1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  boiling  water, 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  orange  extract,  1  pt.  of 
double  cream.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  to  the  thread  degree 
and  pour  in  a  fine  stream  onto  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs; 
return  to  the  fire  and  cook  over  hot  water  until  the  mixture 
coats  on  the  spoon;  beat  until  cold  and  add  the  flavoring  and  the 
cream  beaten  solid.     Let  it  stand,  packed  in  ice  and  salt  for  about 

2  hours  after  moulding. — Mrs,  D.  A.  Worth,  Dalton,  111. 


,564  ICE  CREAM 

APPLE  SHERBET.— To  1  qt.  of  cold,  stewed  and  strained 
sour  apple  add  a  syrup  formed  by  boiling  2  lbs.  of  sugar  with 
1  cup  of  hot  water  and  then  allowing  the  liquid  to  cool.  Squeeze 
in  the  juice  of  3  lemons,  beat  the  preparation  light  and  squeeze. 
Finely  flavored  apples  are  best  for  this  purpose. — Mrs.  M.  A. 
Lennox,  Harvey,  111. 

BERRY  SHERBET.— Mash  1  qt.  of  berries,  or  enough  to 
make  1  pt.  of  juice;  add  1  pt.  of  sugar,  and  after  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, add  1  pt.  of  water  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Press  through 
coarse  cheese-cloth  and  freeze. — Mrs,  Leola  Mosper,  Hazel  Crest, 
111. 

COFFEE  SHERBET.— ]Mix  H  cup  coflfee  with  J^  cup  cold 
water  and  white  of  1  egg.  Add  6  cups  boiling  water  and  boil 
3  minutes.  Strain,  add  2  teaspoons  granulated  gelatin  and  1J4 
cups  sugar  and  let  cool  and  freeze. — Mrs.  Zeb.  Taylor,  Hubbard 
Woods,  111. 

CRANBERY  SHERBET.— 1  qt.  cranberry  juice  cooked  and 
strained,  1  pt.  of  water,  juice  of  3  lemons,  and  rind  of  one 
grated,  J^  nutmeg  grated,  2  tablespoons  sherry,  enough  sugar  to 
make  a  tart  liquid,  put  in  freezer,  turn  rapidly  and  just  before 
removing  dasher  add  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs. — Mrs.  Conklin, 
914  N.  Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

FRUIT  SHERBETS.— Boil  1  qt.  water  and  2  cups  sugar  20 
minutes  (let  boil  vigorously  during  the  whole  time);  add  1  tea- 
spoon gelatin,  softened  in  cold  w^ater,  strain,  and  when  cold  add 
a  scant  pt.  fruit  juice  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  For  lemon  sherbet 
use  1  cup  of  lemon  juice. — Mrs.  Mate  Niles,  Niles  Center,  111. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET.— Stir  together  the  juice  of  1  qt. 
pineapple,  chopped  fine,  dissolve  3  cups  sugar  and  1  box  pink 
gelatin,  which  will  make  1  qt.  in  1  pt.  of  water,  then  add  to  the 
chopped  pineapple,  beat  well  with  2  dessert  spoons  of  fruit  color 
and  freeze. — Mrs.  Clate  McCormac,  Hillside,  111. 

RASPBERRY  SHERBET.— Boil  1  pt.  of  sugar  and  1^  pts. 
water  together  for  20  minutes,  then  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons 
and  1^2  pts.  raspberry  juice,  strain  and  freeze.  Many  persons 
prefer  to  use  1  cupful  of  currant  juice  instead  of  the  lemon  juice. 
—Mrs.  Ned  Ulster,  Hazel  Crest,  111.    • 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         565 

STRAWBERRY  SHERBET.— Take  1  qt.  of  strawberries,  3 
pts.  of  water,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  tablespoon  of  orange  flower 
water  and  ^  lbs.  sugar.  Mash  the  berries  to  a  smooth  paste, 
ad-d  the  rest  of  the  ingredients,  excepting  the  sugar,  and  allow 
all  to  stand  3  hours,  then  strain  the  juice  over  the  sugar,  stir 
well   and  freeze. — Mrs.   Lola   Brown,   Hillside,   111. 

STRAWBERRY  SURPRISE.— Mash  2  qts.  of  strawberries 
to  a  pulp,  add  to  them  a  pt.  of  sugar,  a  pt.  of  water,  the  juice 
of  2  lemons  and  the  unbeaten  whites  of  six  eggs.  Turn  into 
the  freezer  and  freeze.  The  turning  of  the  dasher  will  beat  to  a 
foamy  and  delicious  ''surprise." — Mrs.  Len  Kramer,  Homewood,  111, 


CANDY 


CARAMEL  CANDY.— Fill  a  cup  %  full  of  milk  and  the 
remainder  with  unmelted  butter.  Put  this  into  a  kettle  with  2 
cups  white  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  flavoring.  Set  over  the  blaze 
and  stir  only  until  it  begins  to  boil.  Boil  about  25  minutes  or 
until  it  turns  a  light  brown.  It  is  also  nice  to  grate  a  little  choc- 
olate in.  Cut  in  squares  when  cold. — Mrs.  Conklin,  819  N.  5th 
Ave.,  Maywood^  111. 

CANDY  LOAF.— Chop  ^  lb.  of  dates  and  ^  lb.  of  figs  and 
roll  in  flour.  Make  a  syrup  of  1  cup  granulated  sugar.  3  cups  of 
brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  rich  milk.  Cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball 
in  water.  Add  butter,  size  of  walnut,  the  fruit  and  ^  lb.  each  of 
peanuts  and  English  walnuts.  Pour  into  a  wet  cloth  and  wrap 
up  for  4  or  5  hours.  If  different  colors  are  desired  divide  and 
add  fruit  colors. — Mrs.  G.  E.  Hamilton,  508  S.  4th  Ave.,  Maywood, 
111. 

COCOANUT  SUGAR  BALLS.— These  little  balls  may  be 
dipped  in  melted  chocolate  or  may  be  served  plain,  and  passed 
in  the  place  of  bonbons  at  the  end  of  the  dinner.  Add  sufficient 
confectioner's  sugar  to  the  cocoanut  cream  to  make  a  thick  paste. 
Form  at  once  into  balls,  and  stand  in  the  refrigerator  or  very 
cold  place  until  serving  time.  If  they  are  dipped  in  chocolate, 
they  must  be  dipped  quickly  and  put  at  once  in  a  cold  place.  Serve 
at  the  end  of  dinner  in  place  of  dessert. — 

BUTTER  SCOTCH.— 3  lbs.  coffee,  1  lb.  sugar,  %  lb.  butter, 
}/2  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar.  Enough  water  to  dissolve  the 
sugar.  Boil  without  stirring  until  it  breaks  when  dropped  into 
cold  water.  Add  8  drops  of  lemon  extract.  Pour  in  buttered  pans 
and  mark  off  in  squares.  If  pulled  when  partly  cold,  until  very 
white,  it  will  be  like  ice  cream  candy. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 

CHOCOLATE  WAFERS.— Break  opera  wafers  into  halves. 
Melt    ^    lb.    of   Fondant    over   hot    water;    add   a   tablespoon    of 

566 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK         567 

boiling  water,  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  4  oz.  of  melted  chocolate. 
After  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  enough  water  to  make  it 
the  consistency  of  good  cream.  Dip  the  bits  of  wafers  into  the 
chocolate  Fondant,  and  place  on  oiled  paper  to  dry. — Mrs.  Conk- 
lin,  914  So.  8th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

COCOANUT  DROPS.— Grate  a  cocoanut,  add  ^  of  its  weight 
of  sugar  and  the  white  of  1  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  thor- 
oughly and  drop  on  buttered  white  paper  or  tin  plates.  Bake  15 
minutes. — Mrs.   C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111.  ' 

DIVINITY  CANDY.— 2  cups  sugar,  6  cup  Karo  syrup,  J^ 
cup  water.  Boil  until  it  makes  a  ball  in  cold  water.  Then  pour 
over  the  beaten  whites  of  1  or  2  eggs,  beating  all  the  time. — Mrs. 
Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

FONDANT. — 2  cups  sugar,  2 "cups  water,  ^  teaspoon  cream 
tartar;  stir  until  dissolved,  let  boil  until  it  reaches  soft  ball  stage; 
stand  at  once  in  pan  of  cold  water;  when  cooled  enough  that  you 
can  stand  your  finger  in  it  stir  vigorously  with  stick. — Precaution 
— Never  jar  saucepan  after  it  starts  to  boil.  Do  not  attempt  on 
wet  day.  Keep  crystals  wiped  off  sides. — Mrs.  Jack  Johnson,  Or- 
land.  111. 

FUDGE. — Cook  together  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  f^Wip 
of  rich  milk.  When  boiling  add  4  teaspoons  of  cocoa;  cook  until 
it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  water;  flavor  and  remove  from  the  fire. 
Beat  until  creamy.  Pour  in  pan  and  cut  in  squares  when  cold. — 
Mrs.   G.  E.   Hamilton,  508  So.  4th  Ave.,   Maywood,   111. 

"KRAUT  CANDY"— Put  in  a  saucepan  2  lbs.  light  brown 
sugar,  1  cup  water,  1  grated  cocoanut,  butter  size  of  a  walnut. 
Boil  moderately  for  1  hour,  and  when  stiff  pour  into  pans  and 
cut  into  squares. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

MAPLE  CREAMS. — Cook  without  stirring,  Y^  as  much  water 
as  maple  sugar;  when  almost  done  put  in  a  small  piece  of  butter. 
When  it  begins  to  harden  take  it  ofif  the  fire  and  stir  rapidly  until 
it  becomes  a  waxen  substance,  then  divide  into  balls  and  enclose 
each  ball  between  2  halves  of  English  walnuts  and  put  on  a 
greased  plate  to  cool.— Mrs.  Conklin,  819  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood, 

in: 


568  CANDY 

MOLASSES    CANDY.— Put   1    qt.    of   West    India   molasses, 

1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  ^  egg  into  a 
six  quart  kettle.  Let  it  boil  over  a  slack  fire  until  it  begins  to 
look  thick,  stirring  it  often  to  prevent  burning.  Test  it  by- 
dropping  some  in  a  little  cold  water.  If  it  hardens  quickly  and 
breaks  short  it  is  boiled  enough.  Now  put  in  J^  teaspoon  of 
baking  soda  and- stir  it  well,  then  pour  it  out  in  a  buttered  flat 
tin.  When  partly  cooled  take  up  the  candy  with  well  buttered 
hands,  then  puU^  and  double  until  the  candy  is  a  whitish  yellow. 
It  may  be  cut  in  strips  and  rolled  or  twisted. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914 
N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  III 

MINTS. — Cook  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  water,  %,  tea- 
spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  water.  Beat 
until  creamy,  flavor  with  mint,  almond  or  wintergreen,  color  with 
fruit  coloring  and  drop  on  round  pieces  of  greased  paper,- — Mrs. 
G.  E.  Hamilton,  508  S.  4th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

MOLASSES  CANDY.— 1  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  1 
piece^f  butter  the  size  of  an  egg^  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Boil, 
but  do  not  stir,  until  it  hardens  when  dropped  in  cold  waiter. 
When  it  becomes  hard  and  brittle  stir  in  a  teaspoon  of  soda  and 
beat  well;  pour  into  buttered  pans  and  when  cool  pull  until 
yell©,  with  buttered  hands. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE.— Shell  and  remove  the  dark  skins  from 

2  qts.  of  peanuts;  roll  until  they  are  slightly  broken.  Sift  the 
peanuts  lightly  through  the  fingers,  allowing  the  finer  portion 
to  fall  on  an  ordinary  bread-board;  stand  the  remainder  aside. 
Put  1  lb.  sugar  into  an  iron  saucepan;  stir  over  the  fire  till  it 
melts  and  slightly  browns,  then  stir  in  just  as  many  peanuts  as 
the  sugar  will  hold;  turn  out  quickly  on  the  board  that  has 
been  covered  with  the  fine  nuts;  roll  it  out  in  a  thin  sheet;  cut 
into  squares  and  when  cool  break  apart. — Mrs.  Conklin,,  819  N. 
Sth  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PEANUT  CANDY.— Boil  together  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of 
water,  a  little  butter,  ^  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  until  it  forms 
a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire  and 
beat  until  creamy.  Crush  1  qt.  of  hulled  peanuts,  spread  over 
the  bottom  of  a  greased  tin  and  pour  over  the  candy  mixture. 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  569 

Cut  in   squares   when   cooled. — Mrs.   G.  E.   Hamilton,  508  N.  4th 
Ave.,  May  wood,  111. 

PINOCHI. — 3  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter.  Boil  slowly  for  1  hour.  Try  in  water  and  when 
it  ropes,  add  1  cup  chopped  (not  too  fine)  nuts.  Stir  until  it 
begins  to  granulate.  Pour  in  buttered  pan  ^nd  cut  in  squares. — 
Mrs.  Klug,  25  X.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

POPCORN  BALLS.— 2  cups  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
butter  size  if  an  egg,  boil  until  it  hardens  in  water.  Add  1  pinch 
of  soda,  remove  from  fire,  pour  over  poped  corn  and  form  into 
balls.— Mrs.  Klug,  25  X.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

PREATINES. — ]\Iake  a  syrup  of  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar, 

1   cup  of  water  and   34  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  boil  until  it 

forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.     Remove  from  the  stove  and  beat 

until  it  is  soft  and  white.     Add  one  cup  of  pecan  meats  and  drop 

quickly  by  spoonfuls  on  greased  paper. — Mrs.  G.  E.  Hamitlon,  508 

S.  4th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

% 
CANDY  ROSES.— (Dainty).     Boil  some  sugar  and  water  until 

when   a   fork  is  'dipped   into   the   pan   it  throws   ofif   the   sugar   as 

line  as  threads'     Rub  the  inside  of  some  cups  with  olive  oil  and 

put  into  each  4  tablespoons  of  syrup  and   1   rose;  let  stan^Until 

cold,  turn  out,  and  serve  in  a  bon-bon  dish.— Mrs.   C.  J.   Jeflfries, 

Winnetka,   111, 

PUFFED  RICE  CANDY.— 1  heaping  cupful  brown  sugar, 
y2  cup  water,  %  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  1  tablespoon  vinegar.  Mix 
and  boil  for  10  minutes.  Add  2  tablespoons  butter  and  2  table- 
spoons molasses,  and  continue  boiling  until  a  drop  will  harden 
in  cold  water.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  remove  from  fire  and 
stir  in  3  cups  of  puffed  rice.  Stir  until  all  the  grains  are  coated. 
Cool  in  buttered  tins. — Mrs.  Wm.  P.  Williams,  4463  Woodlawn 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

PULLED  CANDY. — 3  cups  sugar,  J/2  cup  vinegar,  1  table- 
spoon of  water,  1  teaspoon  of  peppermint  or  other  extracts.  Boil 
sugar,  vinegar  and  water  till  it  cracks  .in  cold  water.  Do  not  stir 
after  it  comes  to  the  boil.  Pour  on  to  a  platter  and  sprinkle 
the  flavoring  on  right  after.     When  cool  enough,  pull  until  white. 


570  CANDY 

Be  careful  not  to  handle  it  any  more  than  is  necessary  as  the  less 
it  is  touched  the  more  porous  it  is. — Mrs.  G.  L.  Jordan,  Nfiles 
Center,  111. 

SEA   FOAM   CANDY.— Cook  3   cups    of  light   brown   sugar, 

1  cup  water,  1  tablespoon  vinegar  until  it  forms  a  hard  ball  when 
dropped  into  cold  water.  Pour  it  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  8  eggs,  beating  constantly  until  it  is  stiff.  Then  work  in  y^ 
teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Drop  on  small  pieces  of  waxed  paper. — Mrs. 
Harry  Stearns,  134  So.  19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

FIG  TOFFEE. — 1  cup  fine,  brown  sugar,  and  V\  cup  water 
boiled  together  till  a  clear,  golden  color,  but  don't  stir  it.  Just 
before  it  is  done,  add  Vt.  saltspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Stir  in  and 
take  from  fire.  Have  figs  washed,  dried  and  split  in  strips.  Ar- 
range in  buttered  dish,  pour  toffee  over  and  mark  in  squares. — 
Mrs.  Chas.  Mabee,  Oak  Glen,  111. 

TURKISH  CANDY.— Cook  together  2  cups  of  granulated 
sugar,  5^  cup  Karo  corn  syrup,  J/^  cup  hot  water  and  1  table- 
spoon of  confectioners'  glucose  until  when  dropped  in  cold  water 
it  wSft  form  a  soft  ball.     Let  cool  a  little  and  add  the  whites  of 

2  well  beaten  eggs.  Add  ^  lb.  chopped  English  walnuts.  Grease 
the  tin  and  pour  in.  Cut  in  squares. — Mrs.  Conklin,  819  N.  5th 
A ve,y  Maywood,  111. 

DRINKS 

PINEAPPLEADE.— Pull  1  good  sized  pineapple  to  pieces 
with  a  fork,  but  do  not  slice  or  peel  it,  as  much  of  the  delicate 
flavor  is  lost  by  so  doing.  Slice  1  lemon  and  1  orange  thin  and 
place  in  a  deep  bowl  and  sprinkle  with  1  pt.  of  sugar.  Set  aside 
in  a  cool  place  for  3  hours,  then  turn  into  a  cheese  cloth  or 
muslin  bag,  and  strain.  Add  3  pts.  of  cold  water,  a  cup  of 
crushed  ice,  stir  all  well  and  serve. — Mrs.  Roger  Rawlings,  Chicago 
Heights,  111. 

FILTERED  COFFEE.— 1  cup  finely  ground  coffee,  5  cups 
boiling  water.  Pour  boiling  water  through  the  bag  or  filter. 
Scald  the  coffee  hot.  Put  the  coffee  in  the  filter,  and  pour  the 
boiling  water  slowly  through  it.  Keep  the  pot  in  a  hot  place,  but 
do  not  allow  coffee  to  boil.  The  liquid  may  be  poured  through 
the  coffee  a  second  time.     Filtered  coffee  is  usually  served  black 


COOK  COUNTY  COOK  BOOK  571 

at  the   end  of  a  dinner,  in   small  cups.     It  is  then  called  "After 
Dinner  Coffee." — Mrs.  Hallom  Landers,  Oak  Park,  111. 

RICH  COFFEE. — Beat  1  egg  thoroug-hly  in  your  cup,  put 
in  sugar,  then  pour  in  boiling  hot  coffee  and  stir  briskly  until 
th«  egg  is  well  cooked  without  settling. — Mrs.  Conklin,  914  N.  5th 
Ave.,  Maywood^  111. 

COFFEE  FOR  SIX.— Mix  thoroughly  1  tablespoon  of  well 
beaten  egg  with  1  large  tablespoon  of  ground  coffee.  Then  add 
5  tablespoons  more  of  coffee  and  mix  with  a  little  cold  water. 
Pour  in  a  coffee  pot  with  enough  cold  water  to  allow  2  small 
cups  to  each  person.  Let  stand  a  little  while  before  putting  over 
fire.  Heat  slowly,  letting  it  just  come  to  a  boil.  Take  from  fire 
and  settle  with  1  tablespoon  of  water. — Mrs.  A.  Morgan,  429 
19th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

ACORN  COFFEE.— Dry  them  thorughly  in  a  cool  oven,  shell 
and  cut  them  into  pieces  the  size  of  coffee-berries.  Roast  like 
ordinary  coffee  until  they  become  a  cinnamon  brown.  Pound 
or  grind  the  coffee,  add  a  little  butter  and  put  into  air-tight  bottles. 
Prepare  in  the  same  way  as  ordinary  coffee.  Nice  for  invalids. 
— Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

BARLEY  COFFEE.— Roa-st  barley  until  well  brown  and 
boil  a  tablespoon  of  it  in  a  pt.  of  water  for  5  minutes,  strain  and 
add  a  little  sugar  if  desired. — Mrs.   E.   D.   Kelley,  Winnetka,   111. 

o 

CRUST    COFFEE.— Brown    entire    wheat   bread    until    quite  ^ 
hard  and  crush   with   a   rolling  pin;   place    J4    cup   in   coffee   pot; 
pour  over  1  pt.  of  boiling  water  and  boil  5  minutes.     Add   1   pt. 
of  milk,  let  heat  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  sugar.     Let  settle  2  or 
3  minutes  and  pour. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

OATMEAL  COFFEE.— Mix  common  oatmeal  and  water  ^to 
form  a  cake;  bake  and  brown  it,  powder  it,  and  boil  in  water 
5  minutes.  Good  for  checking  obstinate  vomiting. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Jeffries,  Winnetka,  111. 

DANDELION  CORDIAL.— Scald  4  qts.  of  freshly  picked 
and  washed  dandelion  blossoms  with  4  qts.  of  boiling  water; 
skim  off  flowers   through   a  colander,   using  care  not  to   squeeze 


572  CANDY 

the  flowers;  dissolve  a  cake  of  yeast  in  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible and  add  1  teaspoonful  to  the  liquor,  4  qts.  of  sugar,  juice 
of  2  lemons,  1  orange  and  let  stand  for  3  days.  Strain  through 
a  cheese  cloth  or  other  fine  fabric.  Pour  into  a  keg  and  let 
stand  loosely  corked.  This  will  make  1  gallon.— Jane  Parker,  803 
So.  2nd  Ave.,   Maywood,   111. 

APRICOT  DRINK.— Peel  a  dozen  apricots,  take  out  the 
stones  and  pour  on  them  a  quart  of  boiling  water;  allow  them 
to  stand  for  1  hour,  then  strain  off  the  clear  liquid  and  sweeten 
with  %  lb.  of  sugar. — Mrs.  Dan  ^Mather,  Hubbard  Woods,  Til. 

BRAN  DRINK.— Pour  1  qt.  of  hot  water  on  3  tablespoons 
of  fresh  bran  and  when  cool  add  sugar  to  suit  taste  and  the  juice 
of  3  lemons. — Mrs.  Lew  Karlan,  Forest  Park,  111. 

BEEF  JUICE.— Take  a  thick  end  of  steak  from  the  round 
and  free  it  from  all  fat  and  membrane.  Broil  it  over  hot  coals 
from  6  to  8  minutes  —  long  enough  to  heat  it  through  and  start 
the  juices.  Cut  it  in  strips  and  pass  it  through  a  juice  extractor. 
Season  juice  with  a  little  salt  and  serve  at  once.  If  it  is  to  be 
rewarmed  at  any  time  heat  it  in  a  double  boiler  in  which  the 
water  is  only  simmering,  as  beef  juice  is  spoiled  for  invalids  if 
albumen  is  coagulated. — Mrs.  Karl  Arnold,   Glenview,  111. 

BEET  JUICE.— Boil  beets  until  tender  and  slice  as  for  pickles. 
To  every  quarj;  of  beets  add  2  qts.  of  diluted  vinegar.  Let  stand 
3  days  in  a  cool  place;  the  juice  will  then  be  a  deep 'red;  dip 
out  beets  to  use  on  table  and  strain  juice.  Place  on  stove  with 
a  rose  geranium  leaf  for  each  pint  of  liquid.  Heat  and  bottle 
at  once,  sealing  with  parafine  wax  to  exclude  air.  There  is  no 
more  cooling  drink  on  a  hot  summer  day  than  a  glass  of  beet- 
juice. — Mrs.  Mose  Fifield,  Franklin  Park,  111. 

GRAPE  JUICE.— Pour  6  qts.  of  clean  rain  water,  boiled, 
over  4  baskets  of  blue  grapes,  washed  and  stemmed,  in  an  8- 
gallon  crock.  Let  stand  3  days.  At  the  end  of  that  time  crush 
the  grapes  with  the  hands  and  let  stand  another  week,  when  all 
of  the  grapes  will  be  coming  to  the  top;  skim  and  bottle.  Add 
sugar  to  taste  when  serving. — Mrs.  C.  K.  Wurtz,  216  S.  2nd  Ave., 
Maywood,  111. 


COOK  COUNTY  "COOK  BOOK  573 

ORANGE  JUICE  (ICED)— Make  a  syrup  of  1  cup  sugar, 
^  cup  water  boiled  ten  minutes,  set  aside  until  cold.  Mix  Yz 
pt.  orange  juice  and  y^,  pt.  lemon  juice  and  sweeten  abundantly 
with  cold  syrup.  In  sweetening  this  beverage,  remember  that  the 
ice  is  still  to  be  added  and  that  this  in  melting  will  dilute  the 
syrup  and  thus  render  the  drink  more  acid.  Fill  tumblers  to 
the  brim  with  finely  cracked  ice  and  pour  the  orange  mixture 
upon  it. — Mrs.  Loran  Mclntyre,  Glenwood,  III. 

FRUIT  PUNCH. — Add  the  juice  of  1  can  pineapple,  6  lemons, 
3  oranges,  1  can  rich  preserved  strawberries  and  1  of  the  same 
quality  preserved  cherries.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  let  stand  for 
2  or  3  hours.  Add,  then.  1  qt.  and  1  cup  iced  water,  1  large 
cup  chopped  ice.  1  pt.  of  claret  may  be  addqd. — Mrs.  Klug,  25  N. 
5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 

APPLE  TEA. — Cut  apples  into  very  small  pieces  and  spread 
on  a  pan  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  to  dry;  the  oven  must  not 
be  too  hot  as  the  apples  will  not  dry  out  thoroughly.  When  the 
apples  are  nicely  brown,  let  them  cool  and  grind  in  an  ordinary 
coffee  grinder.  Use  a  teaspoon  for  every  cup  of  water  and  allow 
to  boil  for  a  few  minutes.  Serve  with  milk  or  cream  and  sugar. — 
Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn,  Wilmette,  111. 

APRICOT  TEA. — Prepare  apricots  as  directed  for  apples  in 
preceding  recipe.  Dried  fruit  may  be  used,  and  more  thoroughly 
dried  out  in  oven. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Canthorn,  Wilmette,  111. 

BERRY  TEA.— All  kinds  of  dried  berries  may  be  used  as 
above. — ^Irs.  C.  J.  Canthorn,  Wilmette,  111. 

SLIPPERY  ELM  TEA.— Pour  1  cup  of  boiling  water  over 
1  teaspoon  of  slippery-elm.  bark.  When  cold  strain,  and  add  lemon 
juice  and  sugar  to  taste.  This  is  very  soothing  in  case  of  in- 
flammation of  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  throat. — Mrs.  Edgar 
Marcellus,  Austin,  111. 

CURRANT  WINE.— To  20  lbs.  crushed  fruit,  add  1  qt.  of  wa- 
ter; let  stand  until  ferments.  To  11  qts.  of  juice,  strained,  add  17 
lbs.  sugar.  Cork  loosely  until  it  ferments.  This  makes  6  gallons  of 
wine.— Mrs.  Klug,  25  N.  5th  Ave.,  Maywood,  111. 


574  CANDY 

GERMAN  RED  WINE  (Excellent).— Crush  thoroughly  18 
to  20  baskets  Concord  grapes.  Let  them  stand  in  a  clean  tuh 
about  8  to  10  days,  according  to  the  weather.  Then  press  in  a 
cider  press.  Put  the  juice  in  a  very  clean  keg  or  barrel.  The 
keg  must  be  full,  as  it  sours  if  there  is  any  space.  Dissolve  2  to 
5  lbs.  of  sugar  in  2  qts.  hot  water  anS  add  to  the  juice,  ^lix 
thoroughly,  cover  not  too  tight,  so  that  the  air  can  escape.  Let 
stand  4  weeks.  Then  cover  tightly.  About  10  weeks  later  sepa- 
rate the  juice  from  the  refuse  which  gathers  at  the  bottom. 
Clean  the  keg  thoroughly.  Put  in  the  juice  and  cork  tightly.  If 
properly  handled  it  will  keep  for  years. — D.  F.  Schmalzried,  Ma}-^- 
wood,  111. 

STRAWBERRY  WINE.— Mash  and  strain  6  qts.  of  ripe 
strawberries.  To  every  quart  of  juice  add  1  qt.  of  water  and  1 
lb.  of  sugar.  Stir  well,  and  turn  into  a  crock  to  ferment.  When 
fermentation  ceases,  rack  off  carefully,  bottle  and  seal. — Mrs. 
Edgar  Willis,  Oak  Park,  111. 


\ 


_,^fXmm^ 


UNIVERSmr  OF  ILLINOIS-URBANA 


3  0112  060855522 


«■ 


