THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 

OF  CALIFORNIA 


The  Gastronomy  Collection 
of  George  Holl 


.^e 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2006  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/cookhousekeepersOOeatorich 


^ 


^t 


..<^/ 


"^       ^        »       >  -         V      .\ 


>    .        ^ 


^ 


v*i: 


^ 


-^ 


i  ^^J|| 


l-*- 


:«K 


4 


ryvr  ////^ 


Vl^y/. 


jr//rm/'r-j 


Coiiipletc  it  Ijiirersa 


Q¥, 


V7:^:~^(y:^  ,  r 


4wr/orH   C^(?(/Ai 


//A. 


— -  adapted  to  tlie  use  of  -— -  ^ 


Y^n/ 


u^a//i'/^/^^\ 


v  ■    • 


V//  ^•/f''hf^via/  j  /"//^/^^v-    V/yv>>/v 


/^/'// 


MMLyiTrm  TO 


^.^^o 


YZ. 


Y'  ■ 


'  yr/ ///////  '     ///v///'/y// 
(/r/7yr^Afyy//y/ 


///r.) 


v///y//y 


y^ 


7 


fyrorfyr?//  y  r 


^~ 


/ 


V/// 


^.  J.y/:yM 


And  every otlicT  Subject  coiiiKHted  with 


r 


#V 


^^^ — "  lU'  N CVAY , ^ 


18?*? 


Sfulp- 


iPw 


mm 


m 


.^' , 


* 


* 


^ 


^^j^'. 


f 


/ 

THE 

COOK  AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S 

COMPLETE  AND  UNIVERSAL 

DICTIONARY; 

INCLUDING 

A  SYSTEM  OF  MODERN  COOKERY, 

IN  ALL  ITS  VARIOUS  BRANCHES, 

ADAPTED  TO  THE  USE  OF 

PRIVATE  FAMILIES: 

ALSO  A  VARIETY  OF 

ORIGINAL  AND  VALUABLE  INFORMATION. 

RELATIVE  TO 


BAKING, 

BREWING, 

CARVING, 

CLEANING, 

COLLARING, 

CURING. 

ECONOMY    OF    B15ES, 

OF    A    DAIRY, 


ECONOMY    OF    POULTRY, 

FAMILY    MEDICINE, 

GARDENING, 

HOME-MADE  WINES, 

PICKLING, 

POTTING, 

PRESERVING, 

RULES   OF   HEALTH, 


AND  EVERY  OTHER  SUBJECT  CONNECTED  WITH 
DOMESTIC  ECONOMY. 


BY  Mrs.  MARY  EATON. 


EMBELLISHED   WITH  ENGRA  VINGS. 


BUNGAY : 

PRINTED    AND    PUBLISHED    BY    J.    AND    R.    CHILDS. 
1823. 


LiBfiAfiY 


INTRODUCTION. 


Nothing  is  more  obvious,  than  that  experience 
purchased  by  the  sacrifice  of  independence  is  bought 
at  too  dear  a  rate.  Yet  this  is  the  only  consolation 
which  remains  to  many  females,  while  sitting  on  the 
ashes  of  a  ruined  fortune,  and  piercing  themselves 
with  the  recollection  of  the  numerous  imprudencies 
into  which  they  have  been  led,  simply  for  the  want 
of  better  information.  Not  because  there  is  any  want 
of  valuable  pubHcations,  for  in  the  present  age  they 
abound  ;  but  rather  because  they  contain  such  a  va- 
riety of  superfluous  articles,  and  are  too  indiscrimi- 
nate to  become  generally  useful.  A  young  female, 
just  returned  from  the  hymeneal  altar,  is  ready  to 
exclaim  on  the  first  perusal,  as  the  philosopher  did 
who  visited  the  metropoUs,  '  How  many  things  are 
here  which  I  do  not  want !'  The  volume  when  pur- 
chased is  often  found  to  contain  what  is  only  or 
chiefly  adapted  to  those  who  live  in  "  king's  houses," 
or  "  who  fare  sumptuously  every  day."" 

Indeed,  it  has  been  the  failing  of  most  works  of 
this  nature,  that  they  have  either  been  too  contraqt- 


vi  INTRODUCTION. 


Plan  of  the  Work. 


ed,  or  too  diffuse  ;  detailed  what  was  unnecessary,  or 
treated  superficially  what  was  in  fact  of  most  conse- 
quence to  the  great  bulk  of  mankind.  If  it  be  ob- 
iected  to  the  present  work,  that  it  exhibits  nothing 
new ;  that  the  experiments  are  founded  upon  the 
simplest  rules  of  nature  ;  that  most  of  the  things  have 
been  rehearsed  in  various  forms  ;  it  is  not  necessary 
to  deny  or  to  conceal  the  fact,  every  other  consider- 
ation having  been  subordinated  to  one  leading  ob- 
ject, and  that  is  general  utility.  It  is  but  jus- 
tice however  to  add,  that  many  of  the  articles  are 
perfectly  original,  having  been  extracted  from  a 
variety  of  unpublished  manuscripts,  obligingly  and 
expressly  furnished  in  aid  of  the  present  undertaking. 
A  great  number  of  outlandish  articles  are  intention- 
ally omitted,  as  well  as  a  farrago  of  French  trifles 
and  French  nonsense,  in  order  to  render  the  work 
truly  worthy  of  the  patronage  of  the  genuine  English 
housekeeper. 

It  may  also  fairly  be  presumed,  that  the  superior 
advantages  of  the  present  work  will  immediately  be 
recognized,  not  only  as  comprehending  at  once  the 
whole  theory  of  Domestic  Management,  but  in  a 
form  never  before  attempted,  and  which  of  all  others 
is  best  adapted  to  facilitate  the  acquisition  of  useful 
knowledge.  The  alphabetical  arrangement  present- 
ed in  the  following  sheets,  pointing  out  at  once  the 
article  necessary  to  be  consulted,  prevents  the  drud- 


INTRODUCTION.  vii 


Importance  of  Domestic  Habits,  and  Acquirements. 

gery  of  going  through  several  pages  in  order  to  find 
it,  and  suppUes  by  its  convenience  and  universal 
adaptation,  the  desideratum  so  long  needed  in  this 
species  of  composition. 


Importance  of  Domestic  Habits  and  Acquirements. 

Though  domestic  occupations  do  not  stand  so 
high  in  the  general  esteem  as  they  formerly  did,  there 
are  none  of  greater  importance  in  social  life,  and 
none  when  neglected  that  produce  a  larger  portion 
of  human  misery.  There  was  a  time  when  ladies 
knew  nothing  beyond  their  own  family  concerns ; 
but  in  the  present  day  there  are  many  who  know 
nothing  about  them.  If  a  young  person  has  been 
sent  to  a  fashionable  boarding-school,  it  is  ten  to  one, 
when  she  returns  home,  whether  she  can  mend  her 
own  stockings,  or  boil  a  piece  of  meat,  or  do  any 
thing  more  than  preside  over  the  flippant  ceremonies 
of  the  tea-table.  Each  extreme  ought  to  be  avoid- 
ed, and  care  taken  to  unite  in  the  female  character, 
the  cultivation  of  talents  and  habits  of  usefulness. 
In  every  department  those  are  entitled  to  the  greatest 
praise,  who  best  acquit  themselves  of  the  duties  which 
their  station  requires,  and  this  it  is  that  gives  true 
dignity  to  character.  Happily  indeed  there  are  still 
great  numbers  in    every  situation,   whose  example 


viii  INTRODUCTION. 


Importance  of  Domestic  Habits  and  Acquirements. 

combines  in  a  high  degree  the  ornamental  with  the 
useful.  Instances  may  be  found  of  ladies  in  the 
higher  walks  of  life,  who  condescend  to  examine  the 
accounts  of  their  servants  and  housekeepers  ;  and  by 
overseeing  and  wisely  directing  the  expenditure  of 
that  part  of  their  husband's  income  which  falls  under 
their  own  inspection,  avoid  the  inconveniences  of 
embarrassed  circumstances.  How  much  more  ne- 
cessary then  is  domestic  knowledge  in  those  whose 
limited  fortunes  press  on  their  attention  considera- 
tions of  the  strictest  economy.  There  ought  to  be  a 
material  difference  in  the  degree  of  care  which  a  per- 
son of  a  large  and  independent  estate  bestows  on 
money  concerns,  and  that  of  one  in  inferior  circum- 
stances :  yet  both  may  very  commendably  employ 
some  portion  of  their  time  and  thoughts  on  this  sub- 
ject. The  custom  of  the  times  tends  in  some  mea- 
sure to  aboKsh  the  distinctions  in  rank,  the  education 
given  to  young  people  being  nearly  the  same  in  all. 
But  though  the  leisure  of  the  higher  sort  may  very 
well  be  devoted  to  different  accompHshments,  the 
pursuits  of  those  in  a  middle  sphere,  if  less  orna- 
mental, would  better  secure  their  own  happiness,  and 
that  of  others  connected  with  them.  We  sometimes 
bring  up  children  in  a  manner  calculated  rather* to 
fit  them  for  the  station  we  wish,  than  that  which  it  is 
likely  they  will  actually  possess ;  and  it  is  in  all  cases 
worth  the  while  of  parents  to  consider  whether  the 


INTRODUCTiON.  ix 


Importance  of  Domestic  Habits  and  Acquirements. 


expectation  or  hope  of  raising  their  offspring  above 
their  own  situation  be  well  founded.  There  is  no  op- 
portunity of  attaining  a  knowledge  of  family  manage- 
ment at  school,  certainly ;  and  during  vacations,  all 
subjects  that  might  interfere  with  amusement  are 
avoided.  The  consequence  is,  when  a  girl  in  the 
higher  ranks  returns  home  after  completing  her  edu- 
cation, her  introduction  to  the  gay  world,  and  a  con- 
tinued course  of  pleasures,  persuade  her  at  once  that 
she  was  born  to  be  the  ornament  of  fashionable  cir- 
cles, rather  than  descend  to  the  management  of  fa- 
mily concerns,  though  by  that  means  she  might  in 
various  ways  increase  the  comfort  and  satisfaction 
of  her  parents.  On  the  other  hand,  persons  of  an 
inferior  sphere,  and  especially  in  the  lower  order  of 
middling  life,  are  almost  always  anxious  to  give  their 
children  such  advantages  of  education  as  they  them- 
selves did  not  possess.  Whether  their  indulgence  be 
productive  of  the  happiness  so  kindly  aimed  at,  must 
be  judged  by  the  effects,  which  are  not  very  favour- 
able if  what  has  been  taught  has  not  produced  humi- 
lity in  herself,  and  increased  gratitude  and  respect 
to  her  parents.  Were  a  young  woman  brought  to 
relish  home  society,  and  the  calm  deUghts  of  an  easy 
and  agreeable  occupation,  before  she  entered  into 
the  delusive  scenes  of  pleasure,  presented  by  the 
theatre  and  other  dissipations,  it  is  probable  she 

would  soon  make  a  comparison  much  in  favour  of 
(No.  22.)  b 


IIVTRODUCTION. 


Domestic  Expenditure. 


the  fornier,  especially  if  restraint  did  not  give  to  the 
latter  an  additional  relish. 

If  our  observations  were  extended  to  the  marriage 
state,  we  should  find  a  life  of  employment  to  be  the 
source  of  unnumbered  pleasures.  To  attend  to  the 
nursing,  and  at  least  the  early  instruction  of  children, 
and  rear  a  healthy  progeny  in  the  ways  of  piety  and 
usefulness  ;  to  preside  over  the  family,  and  regulate 
the  income  allotted  to  its  maintenance;  to  make  home 
the  agreeable  retreat  of  a  husband,  fatigued  by  in- 
tercourse with  a  bustling  world ;  to  be  his  enlightened 
companion,  and  the  chosen  friend  of  his  heart ;  these, 
these  are  woman's  duties,  and  her  highest  honour. 
And  when  it  is  thus  evident  that  high  intellectual  at- 
tainments may  find  room  for  their  exercise  in  the  multi- 
farious occupations  of  thq  daughter,  the  wife,  the 
mother,  the  mistress  of  the  house ;  no  one  can  rea- 
sonably urge  that  the  female  mind  is  contracted  by 
domestic  employ.  It  is  however  a  great  comfort 
that  the  duties  of  life  are  within  the  reach  of  humbler 
abilities,  and  that  she  whose  chief  aim  it  is  to  fulfil 
them,  will  very  rarely  fail  to  acquit  herself  well.       .  ^ 


Domestic  Expenditure. 

The  mistress  of  a  family  should  always  remember, 
that  the  welfare  and  good  management  of  the  house 


INTRODUCTION.  xi 


Domestic  Expenditure. 


depend  on  the  eye  of  the  superior  ;  and  consequent- 
ly that  nothing  is  too  trifling  for  her  notice,  whereby 
waste  may  be  avoided.  If  a  lady  has  never  been  ac- 
customed while  single  to  think  of  family  manage-^ 
ment,  let  her  not  on  that  account  fear  that  she  can- 
not attain  it.  She  may  consult  others  who  are 
experienced,  and  acquaint  herself  with  the  necessary 
'juantities  of  the  several  articles  of  family  expendi- 
ture, in  proportion  to  the  number  it  consists  of,  to- 
gether with  the  value  of  the  articles  it  may  be  neces- 
sary to  procure.  A  minute  account  of  the  annual 
income,  and  the  times  of  payment,  should  be  taken 
in  writing ;  likewise  an  estimate  of  the  supposed 
amount  of  each  item  of  expense.  Those  who  are 
early  accustomed  to  calculations  of  this  kind,  will 
acquire  so  accurate  a  knowledge  of  what  their  estab- 
lishment demands,  as  will  suggest  the  happy  medium 
between  prodigaUty  and  parsimony,  without  in  the 
least  subjecting  themselves  to  the  charge  of  mean- 
ness. 

Few  branches  of  female  education  are  so  useful  as 
great  readiness  at  figures,  though  nothing  is  more 
commonly  neglected.  Accounts  should  be  regularly 
kept,  and  not  the  smallest  item  be  omitted  to  be  en- 
tered. If  balanced  every  week,  or  month  at  longest, 
the  income  and  outgoings  will  easily  be  ascertained, 
and  their  proportions  to  each  other  be  duly  observ- 
ed.    Some  people  fix  on  stated  sums  to  be  appro- 


xii  INTRODUCTION 


Domestic  Expenditure. 


priated  to  each  different  article,  and  keep  the  money 
separate  for  that  purpose  ;  as  house,  clothes,  pocket, 
education  of  children,  &c.  Whichever  way  accounts 
be  entered,  a  certain  mode  should  be  adopted,  and 
strictly  adhered  to.  Many  women  are  unfortunately 
ignorant  of  the  state  of  their  husband's  income ;  and 
jthers  are  only  made  acquainted  with  it  when  some  spe- 
culative project,  or  profitable  transaction,  leads  them 
to  make  a  false  estimate  of  what  can  be  afforded.  It 
too  often  happens  also  that  both  parties,  far  from 
consulting  each  other,  squander  money  in  ways  that 
they  would  even  wish  to  forget :  whereas  marriage 
should  be  a  state  of  mutual  and  perfect  confidence, 
with  a  similarity  of  pursuits,  which  would  secure  that 
happiness  it  was  intended  to  bestow. 

There  are  so  many  valuable  women  who  excel  as 
wives,  that  it  is  fair  to  infer  there  would  be  few  ex- 
travagant ones,  if  they  were  consulted  by  their  hus- 
bands on  subjects  that  concern  the  mutual  interest 
of  both  parties.  Many  families  have  been  reduced 
to  poverty  by  the  want  of  openness  in  the  man,  on 
the  subject  of  his  affairs ;  and  though  on  these  occa- 
sions the  women  are  generally  blamed,  it  has  after- 
wards appeared  that  they  never  were  allowed  to  make 
particular  enquiries,  nor  suffered  to  reason  upon  what 
sometimes  appeared  to  them  imprudent.  Many  fa- 
milies have  fully  as  much  been  indebted  to  the  pro- 
priety  of  female  management,   for  the   degree  of 


INTRODUCTION.  xiii 

Domestic  Expenditure. 

prosperity  they  have  enjoyed,  as  to  the  knowledge 
and  activity  of  the  husband  and  the  father. 

Ready  money  should  be  paid  for  all  such  things 
as  come  not  into  weekly  bills,  and  even  for  them  some 
sort  of  check  is  necessary.  The  best  places  for  pur- 
chasing goods  should  also  be  attended  to.  On  some 
articles  a  discount  of  five  per  cent  is  allowed  in  Lon- 
don and  other  large  cities,  and  those  who  thus  pay 
are  usually  best  served.  Under  an  idea  of  buying 
cheap,  many  go  to  new  shops  ;  but  it  is  safest  to  deal 
with  people  of  established  credit,  who  do  not  dispose 
of  goods  by  uniderselHng.  To  make  tradesmen  wait 
for  their  money  is  very  injurious,  besides  that  a  higher 
price  must  be  paid :  and  in  long  bills,  articles  never 
bought  are  often  charged.  If  goods  are  purchased 
at  ready-money  price,  and  regularly  entered,  the  ex- 
act state  of  the  expenditure  will  be  known  with  ease  ; 
for  it  is  delay  of  payment  that  occasions  so  much 
confusion.  A  common-place  book  should  always  be 
at  hand,  in  which  to  enter  such  hints  of  useful  know- 
ledge, and  other  observations,  as  are  given  by  sensi- 
ble experienced  people.  Want  of  attention  to  what 
is  advised,  or  supposing  things  to  be  too  minute  to 
be  worth  regarding,  are  the  causes  why  so  much  ig- 
norance prevails  on  necessary  subjects,  among  those 
who  are  not  backward  in  frivolous  ones. 

It  is  very  necessary  for  the  mistress  of  a  family  to 
be  informed  of  the  price  and  quality  of  all  articles  in 


xir  INTRODUCTION. 


Domestic  Expenditure. 


common  use,  and  of  the  best  times  and  places  for 
purchasing  them.  She  should  also  be  acquainted 
with  the  comparative  prices  of  provisions,  in  order 
that  she  may  be  able  to  substitute  those  that  are  most 
reasonable,  when  they  will  answer  as  well,  for  others 
of  the  same  kind,  but  which  are  more  costly.  A  false 
notion  of  economy  leads  many  to  purchase  as  bar- 
gains, what  is  not  wanted,  and  sometims  never  is 
used.  Were  this  error  avoided,  more  money  would 
remain  of  course  for  other  purposes.  It  is  not  un- 
usual among  lower  dealers  to  put  off  a  larger  quan- 
tity of  goods,  by  assurances  that  they  are  advancing 
in  price ;  and  many  who  supply  fancy  articles  are  so 
successful  in  persuasion,  that  purchasers  not  unfre- 
quently  go  beyond  their  original  intention,  and  suffer 
inconvenience  by  it.  Some  things  are  certainly  bet- 
ter for  keeping,  and  should  be  laid  in  accordingly  ; 
but  this  appUes  only  to  articles  in  constant  consump- 
tion. Unvarying  rules  cannot  be  given,  for  people 
ought  to  form  their  conduct  on  their  circumstances. 
Some  ladies  charge  their  account  with  giving  out  to 
a  superintending  servant  such  quantities  of  household 
articles,  as  by  observation  and  calculation  they  know 
to  be  sufficient,  reserving  for  their  own.  key  the  large 
stock  of  things  usually  laid  in  for  extensive  families 
in  the  country.  Should  there  be  more  visitors  than 
usual,  they  can  easily  account  for  an  increased  con- 
sumption, and  vice  versa.     Such  a  degree  of  judg- 


INTRODUCTION.  xv 


Domestic  Expenditure. 


ment  will  be  respectable  even  in  the  eye  of  domes- 
tics, if  not  interested  in  the  ignorance  of  their  em- 
ployers ;  and  if  they  are,  their  services  will  not  com- 
pensate the  want  of  honesty. 

A  bill  of  parcels  and  receipt  should  be  required, 
even  if  the  money  be  paid  at  the  time  of  purchase ; 
and  to  avoid  mistakes,  let  the  goods  be  compared 
with  these  when  brought  home.  Though  it  is  very 
disagreeable  to  suspect  any  one's  honesty,  and  per- 
haps mistakes  are  often  unintentional ;  yet  it  is  pro- 
per to  weigh  meat  and  grocery  articles  when  brought 
in,  and  compare  them  with  the  charge.  The  butcher 
should  be  ordered  to  send  the  weight  with  the  meat, 
and  the  checks  regularly  filed  and  examined.  A 
ticket  should  be  exchanged  for  every  loaf  of  bread, 
which  when  returned  will  shew  the  number  to  be  paid 
for,  as  talUes  may  be  altered,  unless  one  is  kept  by 
each  party.  Those  who  are  served  with  brewer's 
beer,  or  any  other  articles  not  paid  for  weekly  or  on 
delivery,  should  keep  a  book  for  entering  the  dates  : 
which  will  not  only  serve  to  prevent  overcharges,  but 
will  show  the  whole  year's  consumption  at  one  view. 
*  Poole's  complete  Housekeeper's  Account  book,'  is 
very  well  adapted  to  this  purpose. 

An  inventory  of  furniture,  linen,  and  china,  should 
be  kept,  and  the  things  examined  by  it  twice  a  year, 
or  oftener  if  there  be  a  change  of  servants  ;  into  each 
of  whose  care  the  articles  are  to  be  entrusted,  with  a 


xvi  INTRODUCTION. 

Choice  and  Treatment  of  Servants. 

list,  the  same  as  is  done  with  plate.  Tickets  of  parch- 
ment with  the  family  name,  numbered,  and  specify- 
ing what  bed  it  belongs  to,  should  be  sewed  on  each 
feather  bed,  bolster,  pillow,  and  blanket.  Knives, 
forks,  and  house  cloths  are  often  deficient :  these  ac- 
cidents might  be  obviated,  if  an  article  at  the  head 
of  every  Kst  required  the  former  to  be  produced 
whole  or  broken,  and  the  marked  part  of  the  linen, 
though  all  the  others  should  be  worn  out.  Glass  is 
another  article  that  requires  care,  though  a  tolerable 
price  is  given  for  broken  flint-glass.  Trifle  dishes, 
butter  stands,  &c.  may  be  had  at  a  lower  price  than 
cut  glass,  made  in  moulds,  of  which  there  is  a  great 
variety  that  look  extremely  well,  if  not  placed  near 
the  more  beautiful  articles. 


Choice  and  Treatment  of  Servants, 

The  regularity  and  good  management  of  a  family 
will  very  much  depend  on  the  character  of  the  ser- 
vants who  are  employed  in  it,  and  frequently  one  of 
base  and  dishonest  principles  will  corrupt  and  ruin 
all  the  rest.  No  orders,  however  wise  or  prudent, 
will  be  duly  carried  into  effect,  unless  those  who  are 
to  execute  them  are  to  be  depended  on.  It  behoves 
every  mistress  therefore  to  be  extremely  careful  whom 
she  takes  into  her  service ;   to  be  very  minute  in 


UVTIIODUCTION.  xvii 


Choice  and  Treatment  of  Servants. 


investigating  character,  and  equally  cautious  and 
scrupulously  just  in  giving  recommendations  of 
others.  Were  this  attended  to,  many  bad  people 
would  be  incapacitated  for  doing  mischief,  by  abus- 
ing the  trust  reposed  in  them.  It  may  fairly  be  as- 
serted that  the  robbery,  or  waste,  which  is  only  a 
milder  term  for  the  unfaithfulness  of  a  servant,  will 
be  laid  to  the  charge  of  that  master  or  mistress,  who 
knowing  or  having  well-founded  suspicions  of  such 
faults,  is  prevailed  upon  by  false  pity,  or  entreaty,  to 
slide  such  servant  into  another  place.  There  are 
however  some  who  are  unfortunately  capricious,  and 
often  refuse  to  give  a  character  because  they  are  dis- 
pleased with  the  servant  leaving ;  but  this  is  an  un- 
pardonable violation  of  the  right  of  a  servant,  who 
having  no  inheritance,  is  dependant  on  her  fair  name 
for  employment.  To  refuse  countenance  to  the  evil, 
arid  to  encourage  the  good  servant,  are  equally  due 
to  society  at  large ;  and  such  as  are  honest,  frugal, 
and  attentive  to  their  duties,  should  be  liberally  re- 
warded, which  would  encourage  merit,  and  stimulate 
servants  to  acquit  themselves  with  propriety.  The 
contrary  conduct  is  often  visited  with  a  kind  of  retri- 
butive justice  in  the  course  of  a  few  years.  The  ex- 
travagant and  idle  in  servitude  are  ill  prepared  for 
the  industry  and  sobriety  on  which  their  own  ftiture 
welfare  so  essentially  depends.  Their  faults,  and  the 
attendant  punishment  come  home,  when  they  have 


XX  INTRODUCTION. 


Choice  and  Treatment  of  Servants. 


Good  wages  however  are  not  all  that  a  faithful  ser- 
vant requires  ;  kind  treatment  is  of  far  greater  con- 
sequence. Human  nature  is  the  same  in  all  stations. 
If  you  can  convince  your  servants  that  you  have  a 
generous  and  considerate  regard  for  their  health  and 
comfort,  there  is  no  reason  to  imagine  that  they  will 
be  insensible  to  the  good  they  receive.  Be  careful 
therefore  to  impose  no  commands  but  what  are  rea- 
sonable, nor  reprove  but  with  justice  and  temper ; 
the  best  way  to  ensure  which  is,  not  to  lecture  them 
till  at  least  one  day  after  the  offence  has  been  com- 
mitted. If  they  have  any  particular  hardship  to  en- 
dure in  service,  let  them  see  that  you  are  concerned 
for  the  necessity  of  imposing  it.  Servants  are  more 
likely  to  be  praised  into  good  conduct,  than  scolded 
out  of  bad  behaviour.  Always  commend  them  when 
they  do  right ;  and  to  cherish  in  them  the  desire  of 
pleasing,  it  is  proper  to  show  them  that  you  are 
pleased.  By  such  conduct  ordinary  servants  will 
often  be  converted  into  good  ones,  and  there  are  few 
so  hardened  as  not  to  feel  gratified  when  they  are 
kindly  and  liberally  treated.  At  the  same  time  avoid 
all  approaches  to  familiarity,  which  to  a  proverb  is 
accompanied  with  contempt,  and  soon  destroys  the 
principle  of  obedience. 

When  servants  are  sick,  you  are  to  remember  that 
you  are  their  patron,  as  well  as  their  master  or  mis- 
tress ;  not  only  remit  their  labour,  but  give  them  all 


INTRODUCTION.  iad 


Choice  and  Treatment  of  Servants. 


the  assistance  of  food  and  physic,  and  every  comfort 
in  your  power.     Tender  assiduity  about  an  invalid  is 
half  a  cure ;  it  is  a  balsam  to  the  mind,  which  has 
the  most  powerful  effect  on  the  body;  it  soothes  thQ  ''^ 
sharpest  pains,  and  strengthens  beyond  the  richest 
cordial.     The  practice  of  some  persons  in  sending 
home  poor  servants  to  a  miserable  cottage,  or  to  a 
workhouse,  in  time  of  illness,  hoping  for  their  ser- 
vices if  they  should  happen  to  recover,  while  they 
contribute  nothing  towards  it,  is  contrary  to  every 
principle  of  justice  and  humanity.    Particular  atten- 
tion ought  to  be  paid  to  the  health  of  the  cook,  not 
only  for  her  own  sake,  but  also  because  healthiness 
and  cleanliness  are  essential  to  the  duties  of  her  office, 
and  to  the  wholesomeness  of  the  dishes  prepared  by 
her  hand.     Besides  the  deleterious  vapours  of  the 
charcoal,  which  soon  undermine  the  health  of  the 
heartiest  person,  the  cook  has  to  endure  the  glare  of 
a  scorching  fire,  and  the  smoke,  so  baneful  to  the 
complexion  and  the  eyes  ;  so  that  she  is  continually 
surrounded  with  inevitable  dangers,  while  her  most 
commendable  achievements  pass  not  only  without 
•reward,  but  frequently  without  even  thanks.     The 
most  consummate  cook  is  seldom  noticed  by  the  mas- 
ter, or  heard  of  by  the  guests,  who,  while  they  eagerly 
devour  his  dainties,  and  drink  his  wine,  care  very  lit- 
tle who  dressed  the  one  or  sent  the  other.  The  same 
observations  apply  to  the  kitchen  maid  or  second 


xxii  INTRODUCTION. 

Choice  and  Treatment  of  Servants. 

cook,  who  have  in  large  families  the  hardest  place, 
and  are  worse  paid,  verifying  the  old  proverb,  '  the 
more  work  the  less  wages/  If  there  be  any  thing 
right,  the  cook  has  the  praise,  when  any  praise  is 
given  :  if  any  thing  be  wrong,  the  kitchen  maid  has 
the  blame.  For  this  humble  domestic  is  expected 
by  the  cook  to  take  the  entire  management  of  all 
roasts  and  boils,  fish  and  vegetables,  which  together 
constitute  the  principal  part  of  an  Englishman's  din- 
ner. The  master  or  mistress  who  wishes  to.enjoy  the 
rare  luxury  of  a  table  well  served  in  the  best  stile, 
should  treat  the  cook  as  a  friend  ;  should  watch  over 
her  health  with  peculiar  care,  and  be  sure  that  her 
taste  does  not  suffer,  by  her  stomach  being  deranged 
by  bilious  attacks.  A  small  proportion  of  that  at- 
tention usually  bestowed  on  a  favourite  horse,  or  even 
a  dog,  would  suffice  to  regulate  her  animal  system. 
Cleanliness,  and  a  proper  ventilation  to  carry  off 
smoke  and  steam,  should  be  particularly  attended  to 
in  the  construction  of  a  kitchen.  The  grand  scene 
of  action,  the  fire-place,  should  be  placed  where  it 
may  receive  plenty  of  light.  Too  often  the  contrary 
practice  has  prevailed,  and  the  poor  cook  is  continu- 
ally basted  with  her  own  perspiration ;  but  a  good 
state  of  health  can  never  be  preserved  under  such 
circumstances. 


INTRODUCTION.  xxiii 


Necessity  of  Order  and  Regularity. 


' '  Necessity  of  Order  and  Regularity, 

No  family  can  be  properly  managed,  where  the 
strictest  order  and  regularity  is  not  observed.  '  A 
house  divided  against  itself  cannot  stand ;'  and  if  the 
direction  of  its  affairs  be  left  to  accident  or  chance, 
it  will  be  equally  fatal  to  its  comfort  and  prosperity .^^ 
It  is  the  part  of  a  prudent  manager  to  see  all  that  is 
doing,  and  to  foresee  and  direct  all  that  should  be 
done.  The  weakest  capacity  can  perceive  what  is 
wrong  after  it  has  occurred  ;  but  discernment  and 
discretion  are  necessary  to  anticipate  and  prevent 
confusion  and  disorder,  by  a  well-regulated  system 
of  prompt  and  vigorous  management.  If  time  be 
wisely  economised,  and  the  useful  affairs  transacted 
before  amusements  are  allowed,  and  a  regular  plan 
of  employment  be  daily  laid  down,  a  great  deal  may 
be  done  without  hurry  or  fatigue.  The  retrospect 
would  also  be  most  pleasant  at  the  end  of  the  year, 
to  be  able  to  enumerate  all  the  valuable  acquirements 
made,  and  the  just  and  benevolent  actions  perform- 
ed, under  the  active  and  energetic  management  of 
the  mistress  of  a  family.  As  highly  conducive  to  this 
end,  early  and  regular  hours  should  be  kept  in  the 
evening,  and  an  early  hour  especially  for  breakfast 
in  the  morning.  There  will  then  be  more  time  to  ex- 
ecute the  orders  that  may  be  given,  which  in  general 


xxiv  INTRODUCTION. 


Bad  habit  of  keeping  Spare  Rooms. 


should  comprise  the  business  of  the  day  ;  and  ser- 
vants, by  doing  their  work  with  ease,  will  be  more 
equal  to  it,  and  fewer  of  them  will  be  necessary.  It 
is  worthy  of  notice,  that  the  general  expense  will  be 
reduced,  and  much  time  saved,  if  every  thing  be  kept 
in  its  proper  place,  applied  to  its  proper  use,  and 
mended,  when  the  nature  of  the  accident  will  allow, 
as  soon  as  broken  or  out  of  repair.  A  proper  quan- 
tity of  household  articles  should  always  be  ready,  and 
more  bought  in  oefore  the  others  are  consumed,  to 
prevent  inconvenience,  especially  in  the  country. 
Much  trouble  and  irregularity  would  be  prevented 
when  there  is  company  to  dinner,  if  the  servants  were 
required  to  prepare  the  table  and  sideboard  in  similar 
order  daily.  As  some  preparation  is  necessary  for 
accidental  visitors,  care  should  be  taken  to  have  con- 
stantly in  readiness  a  few  articles  suited  to  such  occa- 
sions, which  if  properly  managed  will  be  attended 
with  little  expense,  and  much  convenience. 


Bad  habit  of  keeping  Spare  Rooms, 

Though  persons  of  large  fortune  may  support  an 
expensive  establishment  without  inconvenience,  it  ill 
becomes  those  in  the  middle  rank  to  imitate  such  an 
example.  Nothing  can  be  more  ludicrous  than  the 
contrast   exhibited    between    two    families    of   this 


INTRODUCTION.  xxv 


Bad  habit  of  keeping  Spare  Rooms. 


description ;  the  one  living  in  the  dignified  splen- 
dour, and  with  the  liberal  hospitality,  that  wealth  can 
command  ;  the  other  in  a  stile  of  tinsel  show,  with- 
out the  real  appropriate  distinctions  belonging  to 
rank  and  fortune.  They  are  lavish,  but  not  Hberal, 
often  sacrificing  independence  to  support  dissipation, 
and  betraying  the  dearest  interests  of  society  for  the 
sake  of  personal  vanity,  and  gratifying  what  is  signi- 
ficantly termed  '  the  pride  of  life/ 

The  great  point  for  comfort  and  respectability  is, 
that  all  the  household  economy  should  be  uniform, 
not  displaying  a  parade  of  show  in  one  thing,  and  a 
total  want  of  comfort  in  another.  Besides  the  con- 
temptible appearance  that  this  must  have  to  every 
person  of  good  sense,  it  is  often  productive  of  fatal 
consequences.  How  common  it  is,  in  large  towns  es- 
pecially, that  for  the  vanity  of  having  a  showy  draw- 
ing-room to  receive  company,  the  family  are  confined 
to  a  close  back  room,  where  they  have  scarcely  air 
or  light,  the  want  of  which  is  essentially  injurious  to 
health.  To  keep  rooms  for  show  belongs  to  the 
higher  classes,  where  the  house  is  suflSciently  commo- 
dious for  the  family,  and  to  admit  of  this  also  :  but 
in  private  dwellings,  to  shut  up  perhaps  the  only  room 
that  is  fit  to  live  in,  is  to  be  guilty  of  a  kind  of  self- 
destruction  ;  and  yet  how  frequently  this  considera- 
tion escapes  persons  who  are  disposed  to  render  their 
family  every  comfort,  but  they  have  a  grate,  a  carpet, 


XXVI  INTRO  DUCTION. 


Bad  habit  of  keeping  Spare  Rooms. 


and  chairs  too  fine  for  every  day's  use.  What  a  re- 
flection, when  nursing  a  sick  child,  to  think  that  it 
may  be  the  victim  of  a  bright  grate,  and  a  fine  car- 
pet !  Or,  what  is  equally  afflicting,  to  see  all  the  chil- 
dren perhaps  rickety  and  diseased  from  the  same 
cause !  Keeping  a  spare  bed  for  ornament,  rather 
than  for  use,  is  often  attended  with  similar  conse- 
quences. A  stranger  or  a  friend  is  allowed  to  occu- 
py it  once  in  so  many  months,  and  he  does  it  at  the 
peril  of  his  health,  and  even  of  his  life. 

Another  bad  effect  of  keeping  spare  rooms  is  the 
seeing  more  company,  and  in  a  more  expensive  man- 
ner, than  is  compatible  with  the  general  convenience 
of  the  family,  introducing  with  it  an  expense  in  dress, 
and  a  dissipation  of  time,  from  which  it  suffers  in  va- 
rious ways.  Not  the  least  of  these  is  the  neglect  of 
parental  instruction,  which  it  is  attempted  to  supply 
by  sending  the  children  at  an  improper  age  to  school; 
the  girls  where  they  had  better  never  go,  and  the  boys 
where  they  get  but  little  good,  and  perhaps  are  all 
the  worse  for  mending.  Social  intercourse  is  not  im- 
proved by  parade,  but  quite  the  contrary ;  real 
friends,  and  the  pleasantest  kind  of  acquaintance, 
those  who  like  to  be  social,  are  repulsed  by  jt./  Tlje 
failure  therefore  is  general,  involving  the  loss  of  nearly 
all  that  is  valuable  in  society,  by  an  abortive  attempt 
to  oecome  fashionable. 


INTRODUCTION.  xxvii 


Setting  out  a  Table. 


Settms:  out  a  Table. 


"is 


The  direction  of  a  Table  is  no  inconsiderable  part 
of  a  lady's  concern,  as  it  involves  judgment  in  expen- 
diture, respectability  of  appearance,  the  comfort  of 
her  husband,  and  those  who  partake  of  their  hospi- 
tahty.  It  is  true  that  the  mode  of  covering  a  table, 
and  providing  for  the  guests,  is  merely  a  matter  of 
taste,  materially  different  in  a  variety  of  instances  ; 
yet  nothing  can  be  more  ruinous  of  real  comfort  than 
the  too  common  custom  of  making  a  profusion  and 
a  parade,  unsuited  not  only  to  the  circumstances  of 
the  host,  but  to  the  number  of  the  guests  ;  or  more 
fatal  to  true  hospitaUty  than  the  multipHcity  of  dishes 
which  luxury  has  made  fashionable  at  the  tables  of 
the  great,  the  wealthy,  and  the  ostentatious,  who  are 
often  neither  great,  nor  wealthy,  nor  wise.  Such  ex- 
cessive preparation,  instead  of  being  a  compliment 
to  the  party  invited,  is  nothing  better  than  an  indi- 
rect offence,  conveying  a  tacit  insinuation  that  it  is 
absolutely  necessary  to  provide  such  delicacies  to 
bribe  the  depravity  of  their  palates,  when  we  desire 
the  pleasure  of  their  company,  and  that  society  must 
be  purchased  on  dishonourable  terms  before  it  can 
be  enjoyed.  When  twice  as  much  cooking  is  under- 
taken as  there  are  servan^^,  or  conveniences  in  the 
kitchen  to  do  it  properly,  dishes  must  be  dressed 


xxviii  INTRODUCTION 


Setting  out  a  Table. 


long  before  the  dinner  honr,  and  stand  by  spoiling ; 
and  why  prepare  for  eight  or  ten  more  than  is  suf- 
ficient for  twenty  or  thirty  visitors  ?  '  Enough  is  as 
good  as  a  feast  \  and  a  prudent  provider,  avoiding 
what  is  extravagant  and  superfluous,  may  entertain 
her  friends  three  times  as  often,  and  ten  times  as  well. 

Perhaps  there  are  few  incidents  in  which  the  re- 
spectability of  a  man  is  more  immediately  felt,  thai 
the  style  of  dinner  to  which  he  may  accidentally  bring 
home  a  visitor.  And  here,  it  is  not  the  multipKcity 
of  articles,  but  the  choice,  the  dressing,  and  the  neat 
appearance  of  the  whole  that  is  principally  regarded. 
Every  one  is  to  live  as  he  can  afford,  and  the  meal 
of  the  tradesman  ought  not  to  emulate  the  entertain- 
ments of  the  higher  classes ;  but  if  two  or  three  dishes 
are  well  served,  with  the  usual  sauces,  the  table  linen 
clean,  the  small  sideboard  neatly  laid,  and  all  that  is 
necessary  be  at  hand,  the  expectation  of  the  husband 
and  the  friend  will  be  gratified,  because  no  irregula- 
rity of  domestic  arrangement  will  disturb  the  social 
intercourse.  The  same  observation  holds  good  on  a 
larger  scale.  In  all  situations  of  Hfe  the  entertain- 
ment should  be  no  less  suited  to  the  station  than  to 
the  fortune  of  the  entertainer,  and  to  the  number  and 
rank  of  those  invited. 

The  manner  of  Carving  is  not  only  a  very  neces- 
sary branch  of  information,  to  enable  a  lady  to  do 
the  honours  of  the  table,  but  makes  a  considerable 


INTRODUCTION.  xxix 


Setting*  out  a  Table. 


difference  in  the  consumption  of  a  family ;  and 
though  in  large  parties  she  is  so  much  assisted  as  to 
render  this  knowledge  apparently  of  less  consequence, 
yet  she  must  at  times  feel  the  deficiency  ;  and  should 
not  fail  to  acquaint  herself  with  an  attainment, 
the  advantage  of  which  is  evident  every  day.  Some 
people  haggle  meat  so  much,  as  not  to  be  able  to 
help  half  a  dozen  persons  decently  from  a  large 
tongue,  or  a  sirloin  of  beef ;  and  the  dish  goes  away 
with  the  appearance  of  having  been  gnawed  by  dogs. 
Habit  alone  can  make  good  carvers  ;  but  some  use- 
ful directions  on  this  subject  will  be  found  in  the  fol- 
lowing pages,  under  the  article  Carving. 

Half  the  trouble  of  waiting  at  table  may  be  saved, 
by  giving  each  guest  two  plates,  two  knives  and 
forks,  two  pieces  of  bread,  a  spoon,  a  wine  glass,  and 
a  tumbler ;  and  by  placing  the  wines  and  sauces  in 
the  centre  of  the  table,  one  visitor  may  help  another. 
If  the  party  is  large,  the  founders  of  the  feast  should 
sit  about  the  middle  of  the  table,  instead  of  at  each 
end.  They  will  then  enjoy  the  pleasure  of  attending 
equally  to  all  their  friends  ;  and  being  in  some  degree 
relieved  from  the  occupation  of  carving,  will  have  an 
opportunity  of  administering  all  those  little  atten- 
tions which  contribute  so  much  to  the  comfort  of 
their  guests.  Dinner  tables  are  seldom  sufficiently 
lighted,  or  attended  ;  an  active  waiter  will  have 
enough  to  do  to  attend  upon  half  a  dozen  persons. 


XXX  INTRODUCTION. 


Quality  of  Provisions  to  be  regarded. 


There  should  be  half  as  many  candles  as  there  are 
guests,  and  their  flame  should  not  be  more  than  eigh- 
teen inches  above  the  table.  The  modern  candelabras 
answer  no  other  purpose  than  that  of  giving  an  ap- 
pearance of  pomp  and  magnificence,  and  seem  in- 
tended to  illuminate  the  ceiling,  rather  than  to  shed 
light  upon  the  plates. 


Quality  tf  Provisions  to  he  regarded. 

The  leading  consideration  about  food  ought  always 
to  be  its  wholesomeness.  Cookery  may  produce  sa- 
voury and  elegant  looking  dishes,  without  their  pos- 
sessingany  of  the  real  qualities  of  food.  It  isat  thesame 
time  both  a  serious  and  a  ludicrous  reflection,  that  it 
should  be  thought  to  do  honour  to  our  friends  and  to 
ourselves  to  set  out  a  table  where  indigestion  with  all 
its  train  of  evils,  such  as  fever,  rheumatism,  gout,  and 
the  whole  catalogue  of  human  diseases,  lie  lurking  in 
almost  every  dish.  Yet  this  is  both  done,  and  taken 
as  a  compUment.  The  practice  of  flavouring  cus- 
tards, for  example,  with  laurel  leaves,  and  adding  fruit 
kernels  to  the  poison  of  spirituous  liquors,  though  far 
too  common,  is  attended  with  imminent  danger :  for 
let  it  be  remembered,  that  the  flavour  given  by  laurel 
essence  is  the  most  fatal  kind  of  poison.  Children, 
and   delicate   grown-up   persons,   have    often   died 


INTRODUCTION.  xxxi 


Quality  of  Provisions  to  be  regarded. 


suddenly  from  this  cause,  even  where  the  quantity  of 
the  deleterious  mixture  was  but  small. 

How  infinitely  preferable  is  a  dinner  of  far  less 
show,  where  nobody  need  to  be  afraid  of  what  they 
are  eating ;  and  such  a  one  will  always  be  genteel  and 
respectable.  If  a  person  can  give  his  friend  only  a 
leg  of  mutton,  there  is  nothing  of  which  to  be  ashamed, 
provided  it  is  good  and  well  dressed.  Nothing  can  be 
of  greater  importance  to  the  mistress  of  a  family,  than 
the  preservation  of  its  health ;  but  there  is  no  way  of 
securing  this  desirable  object  with  any  degree  of  cer- 
tainty, except  her  eye  watches  over  every  part  of  the 
culinary  process.  The  subject  of  cookery  is  too  ge- 
nerally neglected  by  mistresses,  as  something  beneath 
their  notice ;  or  if  engaged  in,  it  is  to  contrive  a  va- 
riety of  mischievous  compositions,  both  savoury  and 
sweet,  to  recommend  their  own  ingenuity.  Yet  it  is 
quite  evident  that  every  good  housewife  ought  to  be 
well  acquainted  with  this  important  branch  of  do- 
mestic management,  and  to  take  upon  herself  at  least 
its  entire  direction  and  controul.  This  is  a  duty 
which  her  husband,  children,  and  domestics,  have  a 
right  to  expect  at  her  hands  ;  and  which  a  solicitude 
for  their  health  and  comfort  will  induce  her  to  dis- 
charge with  fidelity.  If  cookery  has  been  worth  stu- 
dying as  a  sensual  gratification,  it  is  much  more  so 
as  the  means  of  securing  the  greatest  of  human  bless- 
ings. 


xxxu 


INTRODUCTION 


Quality  of  Provisions  to  be  regarded. 


A  house  fitted  up  with  clean  good  furniture,  the 
kitchen  provided  with  clean  wholesome-looking  cook- 
ing utensils,  good  fires,  in  grates  that  give  no  anxiety 
lest  a  good  fire  should  spoil  them,  clean  good  table- 
linen,  the  furniture  of  the  table  and  sideboard  good 
of  the  kind  without  ostentation,  and  a  well-dressed 
plain  dinner,  bespeak  a  sound  judgment  and  correct 
taste  in  a  private  family,  that  place  it  on  a  footing  of 
respectability  with  the  first  characters  in  the  country. 
It  is  only  conforming  to  our  sphere,  not  vainly  attempt- 
ing to  be  above  it,  that  can  command  true  respect. 


1.  Haunch. 


Explanation  of  the  Plate. 

VENISON. 
1  2.  Neck.  I  3.  Shoulder. 


4.  Breast. 


Hind  Quarter. 

Sirloin. 
Rump. 
Edge  Bone. 
Buttock. 
Mouse  Buttock. 
Veiny  Piece. 


BEEF. 

7.  Thick  Flank. 

8.  Thin  Flank. 

9.  Leg. 

10.  Fore  Rib ;  five  Ribs. 

Fore  Quarter. 

11.  Middle  Rib;  four  Ribs. 

12.  Chuck  ;  three  Ribs. 


13.  Shoulder  or  Leg 
of  Mutton  Piece. 

14.  Brisket 

15.  Clod. 

16.  Neck  or  Sticking 

Piece. 

17.  Shin. 

18.  Cheek. 


1.  Loin,  be^  End. 

2.  Loin,  Chump  End. 

3.  Fillet. 

4.  Hind  Knuckle. 

5.  Fore  Knuckle. 


VEAL. 

6.  Neck,  best  End. 

7.  Neck,  Scrag  End. 

8.  Blade  Bone. 

9.  Breast,  best  End. 
10.  Breast,  Brisket  End, 


1.  Sparerib. 

2.  Hand. 

3.  Belly  or  Spring. 


PORK. 

4.  Fore  Loin. 

5.  Hind  Loin. 

6.  Ltg. 

MUTTON. 

1.  Leg.  I  4.  Neck,  best  End.       |  7.  Breast. 

2.  Loin,  best  End.        |  5.  Neck,  Scrag  End.    |  A  Chine  is  two  Loins. 

3.  Loin,  Chump  End.  |  6.  Shoulder.  1  A  Saddle  is  two  Necks, 


I 


THE 


COOK  AND  HOUSEKEEPER'S 


COMPLETE    AND    UNIVERSAL 


DICTIONARY. 


-•►-♦-^ 


Acid,  lemon:  a  good  substitute 
for  this  expensive  article,  suitable  for 
soups,  fish  sauces,  and  many  other 
purposes,  may  be  made  of  a  dram  of 
lump  sugar  pounded,  and  six  drops 
of  lemon  essence,  to  three  ounces  of 
crystal  vinegar.  The  flavour  of  the 
lemon  may  also  be  communicated  to 
the  vinegar,  by  an  infusion  of  lemon 
peel. 

ACIDS,  to  remove  stains  caused 
by  acids.     See  Stains. 

ACCIDENTS  BY  FIRE.  Much 
mischief  frequently  arises  from  the 
want  of  a  little  presence  of  mind  on 
such  occasions,  when  it  is  well  known 
that  a  small  quantity  of  water  speedi- 
ly and  properly  applied,  would  ob- 
viate great  danger.  The  moment  an 
alarm  of  fire  is  given  in  a  house, 
some  blankets  should  be  wetted  in 
a  tub  of  water,  and  spread  on  the 
floor  of  the  room  where  the  fire  is, 
and  the  flames  beaten  out  with  a  wet 
blanket.  Two  or  three  pails  of  water 
thus  applied,  will  be  more  effectual 
than  a  larger  quantity  poured  on  in 
the  usual  way,  and  at  a  later  period. 
If  a  chimney  be  on  fire,  the  readiest 
way  is  to  cover  the  whole  front  of 
the  fire-place  with  a  wet  blanket,  or 
thrust  it  into  the  throat  of  the  chim- 
ney, or  make  a  complete  inclosure 
with  the  chimney-board.  By  what- 
ever means  the  current  of  air  can  be 
stopped  below,  the  burning  soot  will 
be  put  out  as  rapidly  as  a  candle  is 
by  an   extinguisher,   and  upon   the 


same  principle.  A  quantity  of  salt 
thrown  into  water  will  increase  its 
power  in  quenching  the  flames,  and 
muddy  water  is  better  for  this  pur- 
pose than  clear  water.  Children, 
and  especially  females,  should  be  in- 
formed, that  as  flame  tends  upward, 
it  is  extremely  improper  for  them 
to  stand  upright,  in  case  their  clothes 
take  fire ;  and  as  the  accident  ge- 
nerally begins  with  the  lower  part  of 
the  dress,  the  flames  meeting  ad- 
ditional jftiel  as  they  rise,  become 
more  fatal,  and  the  upper  part  of 
the  body  necessarily  sustains  the 
greatest  injury.  If  there  be  no  as- 
sistance at  hand  in  a  case  of  this 
kind,  the  sufl'erer  should  instantly 
throw  herself  down,  and  roll  or  lie 
upon  her  clothes.  A  carpet,  hearth 
rug,  or  green  baize  table  cloth, 
quickly  wrapped  round  the  head  and 
body,  will  be  an  efl'ectual  preserva- 
tive ;  but  where  these  are  notat  hand, 
the  other  method  may  easily  be  adopt- 
ed. The  most  obvious  means  of  pre- 
venting the  female  dress  from  catch- 
ing fire,  is  that  of  wire  fenders  of 
sufliicient  height  to  hinder  the  coals 
and  sparks  from  flying  into  the  room ; 
and  nurseries  in  particular  should  ne- 
ver be  without  them.  Destructive  fires 
often  happen  from  the  thoughtless- 
ness of  persons  leaving  a  poker  in  the 
grate,  which  afterward  falls  out  and 
rolls  on  the  floor  or  carpet.  This  evil 
may  in  a  great  measure  be  prevented 
by  having  a  small  cross  of  iron  weld- 
E      '  1 


AD  U 


A  I  R 


ed  on  the  poker,  immediately  above 
the  square  part,  about  an  inch  and 
a  half  each  way.  Then  if  the  poker 
slip  out  of  the  fire,  it  will  probably 
catch  at  the  edge  of  the  fender  ;  or 
if  not,  it  cannot  endanger  the  floor, 
as  the  hot  end  of  the  poker  will  be 
kept  from  it  by  resting  on  the  cross. 
In  cases  of  extreme  danger,  where  the 
fire  is  raging  in  the  lower  part  of  the 
house,  a  Fire  Escape  is  of  great  im- 
portance. But  where  this  article  is 
too  expensive,  or  happens  not  to  be 
provided,  a  strong  rope  should  be 
fastened  to  something  in  an  upper 
apartment,  having  knots  or  resting 
places  for  the  hands  and  feet,  that  in 
case  of  alarm  it  may  be  thrown  out 
of  the  window ;  or  if  children  and 
infirm  persons  were  secured  by  a 
noose  at  the  end  of  it,  they  might 
be  lowered  down  in  safety.  No  fa- 
mily occupying  lofty  houses  in  con- 
fined situations  ought  to  be  without 
some  contrivance  of  this  sort,  and 
which  may  be  provided  at  a  very 
trifling  expense.  Horses  are  often  so 
intimidated  by  fire,  that  they  have  pe- 
rished before  they  could  be  removed 
from  the  spot ;  but  if  a  bridle  or 
a  halter  be  put  upon  them,  they 
might  be  led  out  of  the  stable  as 
easily  as  on  common  occasions.  Or 
if  the  harness  be  thrown  over  a 
draught  horse,  or  the  saddle  placed 
on  the  back  of  a  saddle  horse,  the 
same  object  may  be  accomplished. 

ADULTERATIONS  in  baker's 
bread  may  be  detected,*  by  mixing 
it  with  lemon  juice  or  strong  vinegar : 
if  the  bread  contains  chalk,  whiting, 
or  any  other  alkali,  it  will  immedi- 
ately produce  a  fermentation.  If 
ashes,  alum,  bones,  or  jalap  be  sus- 
pected, slice  the  crumb  of  a  loaf 
very  thin,  set  it  over  the  fire  with 
water,  and  let  it  boil  gently  a  long 
time.  Take  it  off",  pour  the  water 
into  a  vessel,  and  let  it  stand  till 
nearly  cold ;  then  pour  it  gently  out, 
and  in  the  sediment  will  be  seen  the 
ingredients  which  have  been  mixed. 
The  alum  will  l>e  dissolved  in  the 
2 


water,  and  may  be  extracted  from 
it.  If  jalap  has  been  used,  it  will 
form  a  thick  film  on  the  top,  and  the 
heavy  ingredients  will  sink  to  the 
bottom.  See  Beer,  Flour,  Spi- 
rits, Wine. 

AGUE.    Persons  afflicted  with  the 
ague  ought  in  the  first  instance  to 
take  an  emetic,  and  a  little  opening 
medicine.     During  the  shaking  fits, 
drink  plenty  of  warm  gruel,  and  af- 
terwards take  some  powder  of  bark 
steeped  in  red  wint.     Or  mix  thirty 
grains  of  snake  root,  forty  of  worm- 
wood, and  half  an  ounce  of  Jesuit's 
bark  powdered,  in  half  a  pint  of  port 
wine :  put  the  whole  into  a  bottle, 
and  shake  it  well  together    Take  one 
fourth  part  first  in  the  morning,  and 
another  at  bed  time,  when  the  fit  is 
over,  and  let  the  dose  be  often  re- 
peated, to  prevent  a  return  of  the 
complaint.     If  this  should  not  suc- 
ceed, mix  a  quarter  of   an  ounce 
each   of  finely  powdered  Peruvian 
bark,  grains  of  paradise,  and  long 
pepper,  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
treacle.      Take  a  third  part  of  it 
as  soon  as  the  cold  fit  begins,  and 
wash  it  down  with  a  glass  of  bran- 
dy.    As  the  cold  fit  goes  off',  and 
the    fever  approaches,  take   a   se- 
cond third  part,  with  the  like  quan- 
tity of  brandy  ;  and  on  the  follow- 
ing morning  fasting,  swallow  the  re- 
mainder, with  the  same  quantity  of 
brandy  as  before.     Three  doses  of 
this  excellent  electuary  have  cured 
hundreds   of   persons,  and   seldom 
been  known  to  fail.   To  children  un- 
der nine  years  of  age,  only  half  the 
above  quantity  must  be  given.     Try 
also  the  following  experiment.  When 
the  cold  fit  is  on,  take  an  tt^g  beaten 
up  in  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  go  to 
bed  directly.     This  very  simple  re- 
cipe  has  proved  successful  in  a  num- 
ber of  instances,  where  more  cele-. 
brated  preparations  have  failed. 

AIR.  Few  persons  are  sufficient-* 
ly  aware,  that  an  unwholesome  air 
is  the  common  cause  of  disease. 
They  generally  pay  some  attention 


AIR 


A  I  R 


|o  what  they  eat  and  drink,  but  sel- 
dom regard  what  goes  into  the  lungs, 
though  the  latter  often  proves  more 
fatal  than  the  former.     Air  vitiated 
by  the  different  processes  of  respi- 
ration, combustion,  and  putrefaction, 
or  which  is  suffered  to  stagnate,  is 
highly  injurious  to  health,  and  pro- 
ductive    of    contagious    disorders. 
Whatever  greatly  alters  its  degree 
of  heat  or  cold,  also  renders  it  un- 
wholesome.    If  too  hot,  it  produces 
bilious  and  inflammatory  affections  : 
if  too  cold,  it  obstructs  perspiration, 
and  occasions  rheumatism,  coughs, 
and  colds,  and  other  diseases  of  the 
throat  and  breast.     A  damp  air  dis- 
poses the  body  to  agues,  intermitting 
fevers,  and  dropsies,  and  should  be 
studiously  avoided.      Some  careful 
housewives,  for  the  sake  of  bright 
and  polished  stoves,  frequently  ex- 
pose the  health  of  the  family  in  an 
improper  manner  ;  but  fires  should 
always  be  made,  if  in  the  height  of 
summer,  when  the  weather  is  wet  or 
cold,  to  render  the  air  wholesome  ; 
and  let  the  fire-irons  take  care  of 
themselves.  No  house  can  be  whole- 
some, unless  the  air  has  a  free  pas- 
sage through  it :    dwellings    ought 
therefore  to  be  daily  ventilated,  by 
opening  the  windows  and  admitting 
a  current  of  fresh  air  into  every  room. 
Instead  of  making  up  beds  as  soon 
as  people  rise  out  of  them,  a  prac- 
tice much  too  common,  they  ought 
to  be  turned  down,  and  exposed  to 
dry  fresh  air  from  the  open  windows. 
This  would  expel  any   noxious  va- 
pours, and  promote  the  health  of  the 
family.      Houses    surrounded   with 
high  walls,  trees,  or  plantations,  are 
rendered  unwholesome.     Wood,  not 
only  obstructs  the  free  current  of 
air,    but    sends    forth    exhalations, 
which  render  it  damp  and  unhealthy. 
Houses  situated  on  low  ground,  or 
near  lakes  and  ponds  of  stagnant 
water,    are   the   same :    the   air   is 
charged    with   putrid    exhalations, 
which  produce  the  most  malignant 
effects.     Persons  oblisjcd  to  occupy 


such  situations  should  live  well,  and 
pay  the  strictest  regard  to  cleanli- 
ness.     The    effluvia    arising    from 
church-yards     and     other    burying 
grounds  is  very  infectious  ;  and  pa- 
rish churches,  in  which  many  corpses 
are  interred,  become  tainted  with  an 
atmosphere  so  corrupt,  especially  in 
the  spring,  when  the  ground  begins 
to  grow  warm,  that  it  is  one  of  the 
principal  sources  of  putrid  fevers, 
which  so  often  prevail  at  that  season 
of  the  year.  Such  places  ought  to  be 
kept  perfectly  clean,  and  frequently 
ventilated,  by  opening  opposite  doors 
and  windows  ;  and  no  human  dwell- 
ing should  be  allowed  in  the  imme- 
diate vicinity  of  a  burying  ground.— 
The  air  of  large  towns  and  cities  is 
greatly  contaminated,  by  being  re- 
peatedly respired  ;  by  the  vapours 
arising  from  dirty  streets,  the  smoke 
of  chimneys,  and  the  innumerable 
putrid  substances  occasioned  by  the 
crowd  of  inhabitants.      Persons  of 
a  delicate  habit  should  avoid  cities 
as  they  would  the  plague  ;  or  if  this 
be   impracticable,    they   should  go 
abroad  as    much   as   possible,  fre- 
quently  admit  fresh   air    into  their 
rooms,  and  be  careful  to  keep  them 
very  clean.     If  they  can  sleep  in  the 
country,    so    much    the    better,    as 
breathing  free  air  in  the  night  will 
in  some  degree  make  up  for  the  want 
of  it  in  the  day   time.     Air  which 
stagnates  in  mines,  wells,  and  cellars, 
is  extremely  noxious  ;  it  kills  nearly 
as  quick  as   lightning,    and   ought 
therefore  to  be   carefully  avoided. 
Accidents   occasioned   by   foul   air 
might  often   be  prevented,  by  only 
letting  down  into  such  places  a  light- 
-  ed  candle,  and  forbearing  to  enter 
when  it  is  perceived  to  go  out.     The 
foul  air  may  be  expelled  by  leaving 
the  place  open  a  suflicient  time,  or 
pouring  into  it  a  quantity  of  boiling 
water.     Introducing  fresh    air  into 
confined  rooms  and  places,  by  means 
of  ventilators,  is  one  of  the  most  im- 
portant of  modern  improvements.— 
Dvcrs,    gilders,    plumbers,    refiners 

3 


ALA 


A  LA 


of  metals,  and  artisaus  employed 
over  or  near  a  charcoal  fire,  are  ex- 
posed to  great  danger  from  the  viti- 
ated state  of  the  air.  To  avert  the 
injury  to  which  their  lungs  arei;hus 
exposed,  it  would  be  proper  to  place 
near  them  a  flat  open  vessel  filled 
with  lime  water,  and  to  renew  it  as 
often  as  a  variegated  film  appears  on 
the  surface.  This  powerfully  at- 
tracts and  absorbs  the  noxious  ef- 
fluvia emitted  by  the  burning  char- 
coal.— But  if  fresh  air  be  necessary 
for  those  in  health,  much  more  so 
for  the  sick,  who  often  lose  their 
lives  for  want  of  it.  The  notion  that 
sick  people  require  to  be  kept  hot  is 
very  common,  but  no  less  dangerous, 
for  no  medicine  is  so  beneficial  to 
them  as  fresh  air,  in  ordinary  cases, 
especially  if  administered  with  pru- 
dence. Doors  and  windows  are  not 
to  be  opened  at  random  ;  but  the  air 
should  be  admitted  gradually,  and 
chiefly  by  opening  the  windows  of 
some  other  apartment  which  com- 
municates with  the  sick  room.  The 
air  may  likewise  be  purified  by  wet- 
ting a  cloth  in  water  impregnated 
with  quick  lime,  then  hanging  it  in 
the  room  till  it  becomes  dry,  and  re- 
moving it  as  often  as  it  appears  ne- 
cessary. In  chronic  diseases,  espe- 
cially those  of  the  lungs,  where  there 
is  no  inflammation,  a  change  of  air 
is  much  to  be  recommended.  In- 
dependently of  any  other  circum- 
stance, it  has  often  proved  highly 
beneficial;  and  such  patients  have 
breathed  more  freely,  even  though 
removed  to  a  damp  and  confined  si- 
tuation. In  short,  fresh  air  contains 
the  vitals  of  health,  and  must  be 
sought  for  in  every  situation,  as  the 
only  medium  of  human  existence. 

ALABASTER.  The  proper  way 
of  cleaning  elegant  chimney  pieces, 
or  other  articles  made  of  alabaster, 
is  to  reduce  some  pumice  stone  to 
a  very  fine  powder,  and  mix  it  up 
with  verjuice.  Let  it  stand  two  hours, 
then  dip  into  it  a  sponge,  and  rub 
the  alabaster  with  it :  wash  it  with 


fresh  water  and  a  linen  cloth,  and 
dry  it  with  clean  linen  rags. 

ALAMODE  BEEF.  Choose  a 
piece  of  thick  flank  of  a  fine  heifer 
or  ox.  Cut  some  fat  bacon  into  long 
slices  nearly  an  inch  thick,  but  quite 
free  from  yellow.  Dip  them  into  vine- 
gar, and  then  into  a  seasoning  ready 
prepared,  of  salt,  black  pepper,  all- 
spice, and  a  clove,  all  in  fine  powder, 
with  parsley,  chives,  thyme,  savoury, 
and  knotted  marjoram,^ shred  as 
small  as  possible,  and  well  mixed. 
With  a  sharp  knife  make  holes  deep 
enough  to  let  in  the  larding  ;  then 
rub  the  beef  over  with  the  seasoning, 
and  bind  it  up  tight  with  a  tape.  Set 
it  in  a  well  tinned  pot  over  a  fire,  or 
rather  a  stove ;  three  or  four  onions 
must  be  fried  brown  and  put  to  the 
beef,  with  two  or  three  carrots,  one 
turnip,  a  head  or  two  of  celery,  and 
a  small  quantity  of  water.  Let  it 
simmer  gently  ten  or  twelve  hours, 
or  till  extremely  tender,  turning  the 
meat  twice.  Put  the  gravy  into  a 
pan,  remove  the  fat,  keep  the  beef 
covered,  then  put  them  together,  and 
add  a  glass  of  port  wine.  Take  off 
the  tape,  and  serve  with  vegetables ; 
or  strain  them  off,  and  cut  them  into 
dice  for  garnish.  Onions  roasted, 
and  then  stewed  with  the  gravy,  are 
a  great  improvement.  A  tea-cupful 
of  vinegar  should  be  stewed  with  the 
beef. — Another  way  is  to  take  about 
eleven  pounds  of  the  mouse-buttock, 
or  clod  of  beef,  or  a  blade  bone,  or 
the  sticking  piece,  and  cut  it  into 
pieces  of  three  or  four  ounces  each. 
Put  two  or  three  ounces  of  beef  drip- 
pings, and  two  large  onions,  into  a 
large  deep  stewpan  ;  as  soon  as  it 
is  quite  hot,  flour  the  meat,  put  it  into 
the  stewpan,  and  keep  stirring  it 
with  a  wooden  spoon.  When  it  has 
been  on  about  ten  minutes,  dredge 
it  with  flour,  and  keep  doing  so  till 
you  have  stirred  in  as  much  as  will 
thicken  it.  Then  cover  it  with  about 
a  gallon  of  boiling  water,  adding  it 
by  degrees,  and  stirrmg  it  together. 
Skira  it  when  it  boils,  and  then  put 


ALE 


A  LM 


in  a  dram  of  ground  black  pepper, 
and  two  drams  of  allspice.  Set  the 
pan  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  or  at  a 
distance  over  it,  and  let  it  stew  very 
slowly  for  about  three  hours.  When 
the  meat  is  sufficiently  tender,  put 
it  into  a  tureen,  and  send  it  to  table 
with  a  nice  sallad. 

ALE,  allowing  eight  bushels  of 
malt  to  the  hogshead,  should  be 
brewed  in  the  beginning  of  March. 
Pour  on  at  once  the  whole  quantity 
of  hot  water,  not  boiling,  and  let  it 
infuse  three  hours  close  covered. 
Mash  it  in  the  first  half  hour,  and 
let  it  stand  the  remainder  of  the 
time.  Run  it  on  the  hops,  half  a 
pound  to  the  bushel,  previously  in- 
fused in  water,  and  boil  them  with 
the  wort  two  hours.  Cool  a  pailful 
after  it  has  boiled,  add  to  it  two 
quarts  of  yeast,  which  will  prepare 
it  for  putting  to  the  rest  when  ready, 
the  same  night  or  the  next  day. 
When  tunned,  and  the  beer  has  done 
working,  cover  the  bung-hole  with 
paper.  If  the  working  requires  to 
be  stopped,  dry  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  hops  before  the  fire,  put  them  in- 
to the  bung-hole,  and  fasten  it  up. 
Ale  should  stand  twelve  months  in 
casks,  and  twelve  in  bottles,  before 
it  be  drank  ;  and  if  well  brewed,  it 
will  keep  and  be  very  fine  for  eight 
or  ten  years.  It  will  however  be 
ready  for  use  in  three  or  four  months ; 
and  if  the  vent-peg  be  never  removed , 
it  will  have  strength  and  spirit  to  the 
very  last.  But  if  bottled,  great  care 
must  be  taken  to  have  the  bottles 
perfectly  sweet  and  clean,  and  the 
corks  of  the  best  quality.  If  the  ale 
requires  to  be  refined,  put  two  ounces 
of  isinglass  shavings  to  soak  in  a 
quart  of  the  liquor,  and  beat  it  with 
a  whisk  every  day  till  dissolved. 
Draw  off  a  third  part  of  the  cask, 
and  mix  the  above  with  it :  likewise 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  pearl  ashes, 
one  ounce  of  salt  of  tartar  calcined, 
and  one  ounce  of  burnt  alum  pow- 
dered. Stir  it  well,  then  return  the 
liquor  into  the  cask,  and  stir  it  with 


a  clean  stick.  Stop  it  up,  and  in  a 
few  days  it  will  be  fine.  See  Beer, 
Brewing. 

ALE  POSSET.  Beat  up  the  yolks 
of  ten  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  four ; 
then  put  them  into  a  quart  of  cream, 
mixed  with  a  pint  of  ale.  Grate 
some  nutmeg  into  it,  sweeten  it  with 
sugar,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  keep  it 
stirring.  When  it  is  thick,  and  be- 
fore it  boils,  take  it  off,  and  pour  it 
into  a  china  bason.  This  is  called 
King  William's  Posset.  A  very  good 
one  may  however  be  made  by  warm- 
ing a  pint  of  milk,  with  a  bit  of  white 
bread  in  it,  and  then  warming  a  pint 
of  ale  with  a  little  sugar  and  nutmeg. 
When  the  milk  boils,  pour  it  upon 
the  ale ;  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes 
to  clear,  and  it  will  make  a  fine  cor- 
dial. 

ALEGAR.  Take  some  good  sweet 
wort  before  it  is  hopped,  put  it  into 
a  jar,  and  a  little  yeast  when  it  be- 
comes lukewarm,  and  cover  it  over. 
In  three  or  four  days  it  will  have 
done  fermenting ;  set  it  in  the  sun, 
and  it  will  be  fit  for  use  in  three  or 
four  months,  or  much  sooner,  if  fer- 
mented with  sour  yeast,  and  mixed 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  sour  ale. 

ALLSPICE,  used  as  an  essence,  is 
made  of  a  dram  of  the  oil  of  pimen- 
to, apothecaries'  measure,  mixed  by 
degrees  with  two  ounces  of  strong 
spirits  of  wine.  The  tincture,  which 
has  a  finer  flavour  than  the  essence, 
is  made  of  three  ounces  of  bruised 
allspice,  steeped  in  a  quart  of  bran- 
dy. Shake  it  occasionally  for  a  fort- 
night, and  then  pour  off  the  clear 
liquor.  A  few  drops  of  either  will 
be  a  grateful  addition  to  a  pint  of 
gravy,  or  mulled  wine,  or  in  any  case 
where  allspice  is  used. 

ALMOND  BISCUITS.  Blanch 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  al- 
monds, and  pound  them  fine  in  a 
mortar,  sprinkling  them  from  time 
to  time  with  a  little  fine  sugar.  Then 
beat  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour  with 
an  ounce  of  flour,  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  and  four  ounces  of  fine  sugar, 

5 


ALM 


ALM 


adding  afterward  the  whites  of  four 
eggs  whipped  to  a  froth.  Prepare 
some  paper  moulds  like  boxes,  about 
the  length  of  two  fingers  square ;  but- 
ter them  within,  and  put  in  the  bis- 
cuits, throwing  over  them  equal 
quantities  of  flour  and  powdered 
sugar.  Bake  them  in  a  cool  oven ; 
and  when  of  a  good  colour,  take 
them  out  of  the  papers.  Bitter 
almond  biscuits  are  made  in  the  same 
manner,  except  with  this  difference  ; 
that  to  every  two  ounces  of  bitter 
almonds  must  be  added  an  ounce 
of  sweet  almonds. 

ALMOND  CHEESECAKES. 
Blanch  and  pound  four  ounces  of  al- 
monds, and  a  few  bitter  ones,  with  a 
spoonful  of  water.  Add  four  ounces  of 
pounded  sugar,  a  spoonful  of  cream, 
and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beat- 
en. Mix  all  as  quick  as  possible,  put  it 
into  very  small  pattipans,  and  bake 
in  a  tolerable  warm  oven,  under 
twenty  minutes.  Or  blanch  and 
pound  four  ounces  of  almonds,  with 
a  little  orange-flower  or  rose-water  ; 
then  stir  in  the  yolks  of  six  and  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  five 
ounces  of  butter  warmed,  the  peel  of 
a  lemon  grated,  and  a  little  of  the 
juice,  sweetened  with  fine  moist 
sugar.  When  well  mixed,  bake  in 
a  delicate  paste,  in  small  pans.  Ano- 
ther way  is,  to  press  the  whey  from 
as  much  curd  as  will  make  two  dozen 
t^  small  cheesecakes.  Then  put  the 
curd  on  the  back  of  a  sieve,  and  with 
half  an  ounce  of  butter  rub  it  through 
with  the  back  of  a  spoon  ;  put  to  it 
six  yolks  and  three  whites  of  eggs, 
and  a  few  bitter  almonds  pounded, 
with  as  much  sugar  as  will  sweeten 
the  curd.  Mix  with  it  the  grated 
rind  of  a  lemon,  and  a  glass  of  bran- 
dy ;  put  a  puff-paste  into  the  pans, 
and  ten  minutes  will  bake  them. 

iVLMOND  CREAM.  Beat  in  a 
mortar  four  ounces  of  sweet  almonds, 
and  a  few  bitter  ones,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  water  to  prevent  oiling, 
both  having  first  been  blanched. 
Put  the  paste  to  a  quart  of  cream, 
Q 


and  add  the  juice  of  three  lemons 
sweetened  ;  beat  it  with  a  whisk  to 
a  froth,  which  take  off  on  the  shal- 
low part  of  a  sieve,  and  fill  the  glass- 
es with  some  of  the  liquor  and  the 
froth. 

ALMOND  CUSTARD.  Blanch 
and  beat  four  ounces  of  almonds  fine, 
with  a  spoonful  of  water.  Beat  a 
pint  of  cream  with  two  spoonfuls  of 
rose-water,  put  them  to  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  and  as  much  sugar  as  will 
make  it  tolerably  sweet.  Then  add 
the  almonds,  stir  it  all  over  a  slow 
fire  till  of  a  proper  thickness,  with- 
out boiling,  and  pour  it  into  cups. 

ALMOND  JUMBLES.  Rib  half 
a  pound  of  butter  into  a  pound;  of 
fiour,  with  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar 
powdered,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
almonds  beat  fine  with  rose-water, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  two  spoon- 
fuls of  cream.  Make  them  all  into 
a  paste,  roll  it  into  any  shape,  and 
bake  on  tins.  Ice  them  with  a  mix- 
ture of  fine  sugar,  rose-water,  and 
the  white  of  an  egg,  beat  up  toge- 
ther, and  lay  the  icing  on  with  a  fea- 
ther, before  the  jumbles  are  put  into 
the  oven. 

ALMOND  PUDDINGS.  Beat 
half  a  pound  of  sweet  and  a  few  bit- 
ter almonds  with  a  spoonful  of  water ; 
then  mix  four  ounces  of  butter,  four 
eggs,  two  spoonfuls  of  cream,  warm 
with  the  butter,  one  of  brandy,  a 
little  nutmeg  and  sugar  to  taste.  But- 
ter some  cups,  half  fill  them,  and 
bake  the  puddings.  Serve  with  but- 
ter, wine,  and  sugar. — For  baked 
almond  puddings,  beat  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  sweet  and  a  few  bitter 
almonds  with  a  little  wine,  the  yolks 
of  six  eggs,  the  peel  of  two  lemons 
grated,  six  ounces  of  butter,  nearly 
a  quart  of  cream,  and  the  juice  of 
one  lemon.  When  well  mixed,  bake 
it  half  an  hour,  with  paste  round  the 
dish,  and  serve  it  with  pudding  sauce. 
Small  almond  puddings  are  made  of 
eight  ounces  of  almonds,  and  a  few 
bitter  ones,  pounded  with  a  spoonful 
of  water.     Then  mix  four  ounces  of 


AME 


A  NC 


butter  warmed,  four  yolks  and  two 
whites  of  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  two 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  one  of  bran- 
dy. Mix  it  together  well,  and  bake 
in  little  cups  buttered. 

ALMONDS  BURNT.  Add  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to 
a  pound  of  almonds,  picked  and 
cleaned,  and  a  few  spoonfuls  of  wa- 
ter. Set  them  on  the  fire,  keep  them 
stirring  till  the  sugar  is  candied,  and 
they  are  done. 

ALMONDS  ICED.  Make  an 
iceing  similar  to  that  for  twelfth-night 
cakes,  with  fine  sifted  loaf  sugar, 
orange-flower  water,  and  whisked 
white  of  eggs.  Having  blanched  the 
almonds,  roll  them  well  in  this  iceing, 
and  dry  them  in  a  cool  oven. 

AMBER  PUDDING.  Put  a  pound 
of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  with  three 
quarteis  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar 
finely  powdered.  Melt  the  butter, 
and  mix  well  with  it ;  then  add  the 
yolks  of  fifteen  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
as  much  fresh  candied  orange  as  will 
add  colour  and  flavour  to  it,  being 
first  beaten  to  a  fine  paste.  Line 
the  dish  with  paste  for  turning  out ; 
and  when  filled  with  the  above,  lay 
a  crust  over  as  you  would  a  pie,  and 
bake  it  in  a  slow  oven.  This  makes 
a  fine  pudding  as  good  cold  as  hot. 

AMERICAN  CAKES,  though  but 
little  known  in  this  country,  form  an 
article  of  some  importance  in  do- 
mestic economy:  they  are  cheap, 
easily  made,  and  very  nutritious. 
Mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter 
with  a  pound  of  flour  ;  then,  having 
dissolved  and  well  stirred  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  in  half  a  pint  of 
milk,  and  made  a  solution  of  about 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  crystal  of  soda, 
salt  of  tartar,  or  any  other  purified 
potash,  in  half  a  tea-cupful  of  cold 
water,  pour  them  also  among  the 
flour  ;  work  up  the  paste  to  a  good 
consistence,  roll  it  out,  and  form  it 
into  cakes  or  biscuits.  The  light- 
ness of  these  cakes  depending  much 
on  the  expedition  with  which  they 


are  baked,  they  should  be  set  m  a 
brisk  oven. 

AMERICAN  SPRUCE.  In  the 
spring  of  the  year,  this  valuable  ex- 
tract is  obtained  from  the  young 
shoots  and  tops  of  the  pine  or  fir 
trees;  and  in  autumn,  from  their 
cones.  These  are  merely  boiled  in 
water,  to  the  consistence  of  honey 
or  molasses.  The  bark  and  softer  part 
of  the  tops  and  young  shoots,  being 
easily  dissolved,  make  the  finest  es- 
sence; while  the  cones  and  bark 
of  larger  branches,  undergoing  only 
a  partial  so-lution,  form  an  inferior 
article,  after  being  strained  from  the 
dregs.  Both  sorts,  when  decanted  » 
clear  off,  are  put  up  in  casks  or  bot- 
tles, and  preserved  for  making  spruce 
beer. 

ANCHOVIES.  These  delicate 
fish  are  preserved  in  barrels  with 
bay  salt,  and  no  other  of  the  finny 
tribe  has  so  fine  a  flavour.  Choose 
those  which  look  red  and  mellow, 
and  the  bones  moist  and  oily.  They 
should  be  high-flavoured,  and  have 
a  fine  smell ;  but  beware  of  their 
being  mixed  with  red  paint,  to  im- 
prove their  colour  and  appearance. 
When  the  liquor  dries,  pour  on  them 
some  beef  brine,  and  keep  the  jar 
close  tied  down  with  paper  and  lea- 
ther. Sprats  are  sometimes  sold  for 
anchovies,  but  by  washing  them  the 
imposition  may  be  detected.     See 

ANCHOVY  ESSENCE.  Chop 
two  dozen  of  anchovies,  without  ^^ 
bone,  add  some  of  their  own  liqJror 
strained,  and  sixteen  large  spoon- 
fuls of  water.  Boil  them  gently  till 
dissolved,  which  will  be  in  a  few 
minutes  ;  and  when  cold,  strain  and 
bottle  the  liquor.  The  essence  can 
generally  be  bought  cheaper  than  you 
can  make  it. 

ANCHOVY  PASTE.  Pound  them 
in  a  mortar,  rub  the  pulp  through  a 
fine  sieve,  pot  it,  cover  it  with  clari- 
fied butter,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool 
place.    The  paste  may  also  be  made 

7 


ANG 


AN  G 


by  rubbing-  the  essence  with  as  much 
flour  as  will  make  a  paste ;  but  this 
is  only  intended  for  immediate  use, 
and  will  not  keep.  This  is  sometimes 
made  stiffer  and  hotter,  by  the  ad- 
dition of  a  little  flour  of  mustard,  a 
pickled  walnut,  spice,  or  cayenne. 

ANCHOVY  POWDER.  Pound 
the  fish  in  a  mortar,  rub  them  through 
a  sieve,  make  them  into  a  paste  with 
dried  flour,  roll  it  into  thin  cakes, 
and  dry  them  in  a  Dutch  oven  before 
a  slow  fire.  To  this  may  be  added 
a  small  portion  of  cayenne,  grated 
lemon  peel,  and  citric  acid.  Pounded 
to  a  fine  powder,  and  put  into  a  well- 
stopped  bottle,  it  will  keep  for 
years.  It  is  a  very  savoury  relish, 
sprinkled  on  bread  and  butter  for  a 
sandwich. 

ANCHOVY  SAUCE.  Chop  one 
or  two  anchovies  without  washing, 
put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  flour 
and  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of  water. 
Stir  it  over  the  fire  till  it  boils  once 
or  twice.  When  the  anchovies  are 
good,  they  will  soon  be  dissolved,  and 
distinguished  both  by  their  colour 
and  fragrance. 

ANCHOVY  TOAST.  Bone  and 
skin  six  or  eight  anchovies,  pound 
them  to  a  mass  with  an  ounce  of  fine 
butter  till  the  colour  is  equal,  and 
then  spread  it  on  toast  or  rusks.  Or, 
cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  fry  them 
in  clarified  butter.  Wash  three  an- 
chovies split,  pound  them  in  a  mor- 
tar with  a  little  fresh  butter,  rub  them 
tlm)ugh  a  hair  sieve,  and  spread  on 
t!rc  toast  when  cold.  Garnish  with 
parsley  or  pickles. 

ANGELICA  TARTS.  Take  an 
equal  quantity  of  apples  and  angelica, 
pare  and  peel  them,  and  cut  them 
separately  into  small  pieces.  Boil 
the  apples  gently  in  a  little  water,  with 
fine  sugar  and  lemon  peel,  till  they 
become  a  thin  syrup  :  then  boil  the 
angelica  about  ten  minutes.  Put  some 
paste  at  the  bottom  of  the  pattipans, 
with  alternate  layers  of  apples  and 
angelica :  pour  in  some  of  the  svrup, 
8 


put  on  the  lid,  and  bake  them  care- 
fully. 

ANGLING  APPARATUS.  Fish- 
ing rods  should  be  oiled  and  dried  in 
the  sun,  to  prevent  their  being  worm 
eaten,  and  render  them  tough ;  and 
if  the  joints  get  swelled  and  set  fast, 
turn  the  part  over  the  flame  of  a  can-' 
die,  and  it  will  soon  be  set  at  liberty. 
Silk  or  hemp  lines  dyed  in  a  decoc- 
tion of  oak  bark,  will  render  them 
more  durable  and  capable  of  resisting 
the  wet;  and  after  they  have  been 
used  they  should  be  well  dried  be- 
fore they  are  wound  up,  or  they  will 
be  liable  to  rot.  To  make  a  cork 
float,  take  a  good  new  cork,  and  pass 
a  small  red-hot  iron  through  the 
centre  of  it  lengthways  ;  then  round 
one  end  of  it  with  a  sharp  knife,  and 
reduce  the  other  to  a  point,  resem- 
bling a  small  peg  top.  The  quill 
which  is  to  pass  through  it  may  be 
secured  at  the  bottom  by  putting  in 
a  little  cotton  wool  and  sealing  wax, 
and  the  upper  end  is  to  be  fitted  with 
a  piece  of  hazel  like  a  plug,  cemented 
like  the  other,  with  a  piece  of  wire 
on  the  top  formed  into  an  eye,  and 
two  small  hoops  cut  from  another 
quill  to  regulate  the  line  which  passes 
through  the  float.  To  render  it  the 
more  visible,  the  cork  may  be  colour- 
ed with  red  wax.  For  fly  fishing, 
either  natural  or  artificial  flies  may 
be  used,  especially  such  as  are  found 
under  hollow  stones  by  the  river's 
side,  on  the  trunk  of  an  oak  or  ash, 
on  hawthorns,  and  on  ant  hills.  In 
clear  water  the  angler  may  use  small 
flies  with  slender  wings,  but  in  mud- 
dy water  a  large  fly  is  better :  in  a 
clear  day  the  fly  should  be  light  co- 
loured, and  in  dark  water  the  fly 
should  be  dark.  The  rod  and  line 
require  to  be  long ;  the  fly  when  fas- 
tened to  the  hook  should  be  allowed 
to  float  gently  on  the  surface  of  the 
water,  keeping  the  line  from  touching 
it,  and  the  angler  should  stand  as  far 
as  may  be  from  the  water  s  edge  with 
the  sun  at  his  back,  having  a  watchful 


ANT 


AFP 


eye  and  a  quick  hand.  Fish  may  be 
intoxicated  "and  taken  in  the  follow- 
,  ing  manner.  Take  an  equal  quantity 
of  cocculus  indicus,  coriander,  fenu- 
greek, and  cummin  seeds,  and  reduce 
them  to  a  powder.  INIake  it  into  a 
paste  with  rice  flour  and  water,  roll 
it  up  into  pills  as  large  as  peas,  and 
throw  them  into  ponds  or  rivers 
which  abound  with  fish.  After  eat- 
ing the  paste,  the  fish  will  rise  to  the 
surface  of  the  w^ater  almost  motion- 
less, and  may  be  taken  out  by  the 
hand. 

ANTIDOTE  to  opium  or  lauda- 
num. The  deleterious  effects  of  opi- 
um, which  are  so  often  experienced 
in  the  form  of  laudanum,  may  in  great 
measure  be  counteracted  by  taking 
a  proper  quantity  of  lemon  juice  im- 
mediately afterwards.  Four  grains 
of  opium,  or  a  hundred  drops  of 
laudanum,  are  often  sufficient  for  a 
fatal  dose  ;  but  if  an  ounce  of  pure 
lemon  juice,  or  twice  that  quantity  of 
good  vinegar  be  added  to  every  grain 
of  opium,  or  every  twenty-five  drops 
of  laudanum,  it  will  relieve  both  the 
head  and  the  bowels ;  and  the  use  of 
vegetable  acids  cannot  be  too  strong- 
ly recommended  to  those  who  are 
under  the  necessity  of  taking  con- 
siderable doses  of  opiates. 

ANTS.  Though  it  does  not  be- 
come us  to  be  prodigal  of  life  in  any 
form,  nor  wantonly  to  seek  its  extinc- 
tion, yet  where  any  species  of  ani- 
mals are  found  to  be  really  noxious 
or  annoying,  the  good  of  man  re- 
quires that  they  should  be  destroyed. 
Houses  are  sometimes  so  infested 
with  ants,  that  they  are  not  to  be 
endured.  In  this  case,  sprinkle  the 
places  they  frequent  with  a  strong 
decoction  of  walnut-tree  leaves ;  or 
f ,  take  half  a  pound  of  sulphur,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  potash,  and 
dissolve  them  together  over  the  fire. 
Afterwards  beat  them  to  a  powder, 
add  some  water  to  it;  and  when 
sprinkled,  the  ants  will  either  die  or 
leave  the  place.  When  they  are  found 
to  traversegarden  walls  orhot-houses, 


and  to  injure  the  fruit,  several  holes 
should  be  drilled  in  the  ground  with 
an  iron  crow,  close  to  the  side  of  the 
wall,  and  as  deep  as  the  soil  wilj  ad- 
mit. The  earth  being  stirred,  the 
insects  w  ill  begin  to  move  about :  the 
sides  of  the  holes  are  then  to  be  made 
smooth,  so  that  the  ants  may  fall  ir 
as  soon  as  they  approach,  and  thej 
will  be  unable  to  climb  upwards. 
Water  being  then  poured  on  them, 
great  numbers  may  easily  be  destroy- 
ed. The  same  end  may  be  answered 
by  strewing  a  mixture  of  quick  lime 
and  soot  along  such  places  as  are 
much  frequented  by  the  ants  ;  or  by 
adding  water  to  it,  and  pouring  it  at 
the  roots  of  trees  infested  by  them. 
To  prevent  their  descending  from  a 
tree  which  they  visit,  it  is  only  ne- 
cessary to  mark  with  a  piece  of  com- 
mon chalk  a  circle  round  its  trunk, 
an  inch  or  two  broad,  and  about  two 
feet  from  the  ground.  This  experi- 
ment should  be  performed  in  dry 
weather,  and  the  ring  must  be  re- 
newed :  as  soon  as  the  ants  arrive  at 
it,  not  one  of  them  will  attempt  to 
cross  over. — Ant  hills  are  very  in* 
jurious  in  dry  pastures,  not  only  by 
wasting  the  soil,  but  yielding  a  per- 
nicious kind  of  grass,  and  impeding 
the  operation  of  the  scythe.  The 
turf  of  the  ant  hill  should  be  pared 
off,  the  core  taken  out  and  scattered 
at  a  distance ;  and  when  the  turf  is 
laid  down  again,  the  place  should  be 
left  lower  than  the  ground  around  it, 
that  when  the  wet  settles  into  it,  the 
ants  may  be  prevented  from  return- 
ing to  their  haunt.  The  nests  may 
more  effectually  be  destroyed  by 
putting  quick  lime  into  them,  and 
pouring  on  some  water ;  or  by  put- 
ting in  some  night  soil,  and  closing 
it  up. 

APPLE  TREES  may  be  preserved 
from  the  innumerable  insects  with 
which  they  are  annoyed,  by  painting 
the  stems  and  branches  with  a  thick 
wash  of  lime  and  water,  as  soon  as 
the  sap  begins  to  rise.  This  will  be 
found,  in  the  course  of  the  ensuing 

c  0 


«/ 


if* 


APP 


APP 


summer  to  have  removed  all  the  moss 
and  insects,  and  given  to  the  bark  ^ 
fresh  and  green  appearance.  Other 
fruit  trees  may  be  treated  in  the  same 
manner,  and  they  will  soon  become 
more  healthy  and  vigorous.  Trees 
exposed  to  cattle,  hares  and  rabbits, 
may  be  preserved  from  these  depre- 
dators, without  the  expense  of  fence 
or  rails,  by  any  of  the  following  ex- 
periments. Wash  the  stems  of  the 
trees  or  plants  to  a  proper  height 
with  tanner's  liquor,  or  such  as  they 
use  for  dressing  hides.  If  this  does 
not  succeed,  make  a  mixture  of  night 
soil,  lime  and  water,  and  brush  it  on 
^e  stems  and  branches,  two  or  three 
times  in  a  year :  this  will  effectually 
preserve  the  trees  from  being  barked. 
A  mixture  of  fresh  cow  dung  and 
urine  has  been  found  to  answer  the 
same  purpose,  and  also  to  destroy 
the  canker,  which  is  so  fatal  to  the 
growth  of  trees. 

APPLES  are  best  preserved  from 
frost,  by  throwing  over  them  a  linen 
cloth  before  the  approach  of  hard, 
weather:  woollen  will  not  answer 
the  purpose.  In  this  manner  they 
are  kept  in  Germany  and  in  America, 
during  the  severest  winters ;  and  it 
is  probable  that  potatoes  might  be 
preserved  in  the  same  way.  Apples 
may  also  be  kept  till  the  following 
summer  by  j)utting  them  into  a  dry 
jar,  with  a  few  pebbles  at  the  bot- 
tom to  imbibe  the  moisture  which 
would  otherwise  destroy  the  fruit, 
and  then  closing  up  the  jar  carefully 
with  a  lid,  and  a  little  fresh  water 
round  the  edge. 

APPLES  DRIED.  Put  them  in 
a  cool  oven  six  or  seven  times  ;  and 
when  soft  enough  to  bear  it,  let  them 
be  gently  flattened  by  degrees.  If 
the  oven  be  too  warm  they  will  waste ; 
and  at  first  it  should  be  very  cool. 
The  biffin,  the  minshul  crab,  or  any 
tart  apples,  are  the  best  for  drying. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS.   Pare  and 

slice  some  apples,  line  a  bason  with 

a  thin  paste,  till  it  with  the  fruit,  and 

close  the  paste  over.     Tie  a  cloth 

10 


tight  over,  and  boil  the  dumpling  till 
the  fruit  is  done.  Currant  and  dam- 
son puddings  are  prepared  in  the 
same  way. 

APPLE  FOOL.  Stew  some  ap- 
ples in  a  stone  jar  on  a  stove,  or  in  a 
saucepan  of  water  over  the  fire  :  if 
the  former,  a  large  spoonful  of  water 
should  be  added  to  the  fruit.  When 
reduced  to  a  pulp,  peel  and  press 
them  through  a  cullendar  ;  boil  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  new  milk,  and 
a  tea-cupful  of  raw  cream,  or  an  egg 
instead  ( f  the  latter,  and  leave  the 
liquor  to  cool.  Then  mix  it  gradu- 
ally with  the  pulp,  and  sweeten  the 
whole  w  ith  fine  moist  sugar. 

APPLE  FRITTERS.  Pare  some 
apples,  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices ; 
put  a  spoonful  of  light  batter  into  a 
frying-pan,  then  a  layer  of  apples, 
and  another  spoonful  of  batter.  Fry 
them  to  a  light  brown,  and  serve  with 
grated  sugar  over  them. 

APPLE  JELLY.  Prepare  twenty 
golden  pippins,  boil  them  quite  ten- 
der in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  spring 
water,  and  strain  the  pulp  through 
a  cullendar.  To  every  pint  add  a 
a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  with  grated 
orange  or  lemon  peel,  and  then  boil 
the  whole  to  a  jelly.  Or,  having 
prepared  the  apples  by  boiling  and 
straining  them  through  a  coarse  sieve, 
get  ready  an  ounce  of  isinglass  boiled 
to  a  jelly  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  and 
mix  it  with  the  apple  pulp.  Add 
some  sugar,  a  little  lemon  juice  and 
peel ;  boil  all  together,  take  out  the 
peel,  and  put  the  jelly  into  a  dish, 
to  serve  at  table. — When  apple  jelly 
is  required  for  preserving  apricots, 
or  any  sort  of  sweetmeats,  a  differ- 
ent process  is  observed.  Apples  are 
to  be  pared,  quartered  and  cored, 
and  put  into  a  stewpan,  with  as 
much  water  as  will  cover  them.  Boil 
them  to  a  mash  as  quick  as  possible, 
and  add  a  quantity  of  water ;  then 
boil  half  an  hour  more,  and  run  it 
through  a  jelly  bag.  If  in  summer, 
codlins  are  best :  in  autumn,  golden 
rennets    or    winter    pippins. — Re(/ 


APP 


A  PP 


apples  in  jelly  are  a  different  pre- 
paration. These  must  be  pared  and 
cored,  and  thrown  into  water  ;  then 
put  them  in  a  preserving  pan,  and 
let  them  coddle  with  as  little  water 
as  will  only  half  cover  them.  Ob- 
serve that  they  do  not  lie  too  close 
when  first  put  in ;  and  when  the 
under  side  is  done,  turn  them.  Mix 
some  pounded  cochineal  with  the 
water,  and  boil  with  the  fruit.  When 
sufficiently  done,  take  them  out  on 
the  dish  they  are  to  be  served  in, 
the  stalk  downwards.  Make  a  rich 
jelly  of  the  water  with  loaf  sugar, 
boiling  them  with  the  thin  rind  and 
juice  of  a  lemon.  When  cold,  spread 
the  jelly  over  the  apples ;  cut  the 
lemon  peel  into  narrow  strips,  and 
put  them  across  the  eye  of  the  ap- 
ple. The  colour  should  be  kept 
fine  from  the  first,  or  the  fruit  will 
not  afterwards  gain  it ;  and  use  as 
little  of  the  cochineal  as  will  serve, 
lest  the  syrup  taste  bitter. 

APPLE  MARMALADE.  Scald 
some  apples  till  they  come  to  a  pulp ; 
then  take  an  equal  weight  of  sugar 
in  large  lumps,  just  dip  them  in  wa- 
ter, and  boil  the  sugar  till  it  can  be 
well  skimmed,  and  is  reduced  to  a 
thick  syrup.  Put  it  to  the  pulp, 
and  simmer  it  on  a  quick  fire  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour.  Grate  a  little  lemon 
peel  before  boiling,  but  if  too  much 
it  will  be  bitter. 

APPLE  PASTY.  Make  a  hot 
crust  of  lard  or  dripping,  roll  it  out 
warm,  cover  it  with  apples  pared 
and  sliced,  and  a  little  lemon  peel 
and  moist  sugar.  Wet  the  edges  of 
the  crust,  close  it  up  well,  make  a 
few  holes  in  the  top,  and  bake  it  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Gooseberries  may 
be  done  in  the  same  way. 

APPLE  PIE.  Pare  and  core  the 
fruit,  after  being  wiped  clean  ;  then 
boil  the  cores  and  parings  in  a  little 
water,  till  it  tastes  well.  Strain  the 
liquor,  add  a  little  sugar,  with  a  bit 
of  bruised  cinnamon,  and  simmer 
again.  Meantime  place  the  apples 
in  a  dish,  a  paste  being  put  round 


the  edge ;  when  one  layer  is  in, 
sprinkle  half  the  sugar,  and  shred 
lemon  peel ;  squeeze  in  some  of  the 
juice,  or  a  glass  of  cider,  if  the  ap- 
ples have  lost  their  spirit.  Put  in 
the  rest  of  the  apples,  the  sugar,  and 
the  liquor  which  has  been  boiled. 
If  the  pie  be  eaten  hot,  put  some 
butter  into  it,  quince  marmalade, 
orange  paste  or  cloves,  to  give  it  a 
flavour. 

APPLE  POSTILLA.  Bake  cod- 
lins,  or  any  other  sour  apples,  but 
without  burning  them  ;  pulp  them 
through  a  sieve  into  a  bowl,  and  beat 
them  for  four  hours.  Sweeten  the 
fruit  with  honey,  and  beat  it  fotir 
hours  more ;  the  longer  it  is  beaten 
the  better.  Pour  a  thin  layer  of  the 
mixture  on  a  cloth  spread  over  a 
tray,  and  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven, 
with  bits  of  wood  placed  under  the 
tray.  If  not  baked  enough  on  one 
side,  set  it  again  in  the  oven  ;  and 
when  quite  done,  turn  it.  Pour  on  it  a 
fresh  lay  er  of  the  mixture,andpi'oceed 
with  it  in  liko  manner,  till  the  whole 
is  properly  baked.  Apple  postilla 
is  also  made  by  peeling  the  apples 
and  taking  out  the  cores  after  they 
are  baked,  sweetening  with  sugar, 
and  beating  it  up  with  a  wooden 
spoon  till  it  is  all  of  a  froth.  Then 
put  it  on  two  trays,  and  bake  it  for 
two  hours  in  an  oven  moderately  hot. 
After  this  another  layer  of  the  beaten 
apples  is  added,  and  pounded  loaf 
sugar  spread  over.  Sometimes  a 
still  finer  sort  is  made,  by  beating 
yolks  of  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  then 
mixing  it  with  the  apple  juice. 

APPLE  PUDDING.  Butter  a 
baking  dish,  put  in  the  batter,  and 
the  apples  whole,  without  being  cut 
or  pared,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
If  the  apples  be  pared,  they  will 
mix  with  the  batter  while  in  the 
oven,  and  make  the  pudding  soft. 
Serve  it  up  with  sugar  and  butter. 
For  a  superior  pudding,  grate  a 
pound  of  pared  apples,  work  it  up 
with  six  ounces  of  butter,  four  eggs, 
grated  lemon  peel,  a  little  sugar  and 
11 


APP 


APR 


brandy.  Line  the  dish  with  good 
paste,  strew  over  it  bits  of  candied 
peel,  put  in  the  pudding,  and  bake 
it  half  an  hour.  A  little  lemon  juice 
may  be  added,  a  spoonful  of  bread 
crumbs,  or  two  or  three  Naples  bis- 
cuits. Another  way  is,  to  pare  and 
quarter  four  large  apples,  boil  them 
tender,  with  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  in 
so  little  water  that  it  may  be  exhaust- 
ed in  the  boiling.  Beat  the  apples 
line  in  a  mortar,  add  the  crumb  of 
a  small  roll,  four  ounces  of  melted 
butter,  the  yolks  of  five  and  the 
whites  of  three  eggs,  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Beat  all  together,  and  lay  it  in  a  dish 
with  paste  to  turn  out,  after  baking. 

APPLE  PUFFS.  Pare  the  fruit, 
and  either  stew  them  in  a  stone  jar 
on  a  hot  hearth,  or  bake  them. 
When  cold,  mix  the  pulp  of  the  ap- 
ple with  sugar  and  lemon  peel  shred 
fine,  taking  as  little  as  possible  of 
the  apple  juice.  Bake  them  in  thin 
paste,  in  a  quick  oven  :  if  small,  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  will  be  sufficient. 
Orange  or  quince  marmalade  is 
a  great  improvement  ;  cinnamon 
pounded,  or  orange  flower-water, 
will  make  an  agreeable  change. 

APPLE  SAUCE.  Pare,  core,  and 
slice  some  apples ;  put  them  in  a 
stone  jar,  into  a  saucepan  of  water, 
or  on  a  hot  hearth.  If  the  latter, 
put  in  a  spoonful  or  two  of  water,  to 
prevent  burning.  When  done,  mash 
them  up,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  nutmeg,  and  a  little  brown 
sugar.  Serve  it  in  a  sauce  tureen, 
for  goose  and  roast  pork. 

APPLE  TRIFLE.  Scald  some 
apples,  pass  them  through  a  sieve, 
and  make  a  layer  of  the  pulp  at  the 
bottom  of  a  dish  ;  mix  the  rind  of 
half  a  lemon  grated,  and  sweeten 
with  sugar.  Or  mix  half  a  pint  of 
milk,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  the 
yolk  of  an  egg.  Scald  it  over  the 
fire,  and  stir  it  all  the  time  without 
boiling  ;  lay  it  over  the  apple  pulp 
with  a  spoon,  and  put  on  it  a  whip 
prepared  the  day  before. 


APPLE  WATER.  Cut  two  large 
apples  in  slices,  and  pour  a  quart  of 
boiling  water  on  them,  or  on  roasted 
apples.  Strain  it  well,  and  sweeten 
it  lightly.  When  cold,  it  is  an  agree- 
able drink  in  a  fever. 

APPLE  WINE.  To  every  gallon 
of  apple  juice,  immediately  as  it 
comes  from  the  press,  add  two  pounds 
of  lump  sugar ;  boil  it  as  long  as 
any  scum  rises,  then  strain  it  through 
a  sieve,  and  let  it  cool.  Add  some 
yeast,  and  stir  it  well ;  let  it  work  in 
the  tub  for  two  or  three  weeks,  or 
till  the  head  begins  to  flatten ;  then 
skim  off^  the  head,  draAv  ofl*  the  liquor 
clear,  and  tun  it.  When  made  a 
year,  rack  it  ofl",  and  fine  it  with 
isinglass.  To  every  eight  gallons 
add  half  a  pint  of  the  best  rectified 
spirits  of  wine,  or  a  pint  of  brandy. 

APRICOTS  DRIED.  Pare  thin 
and  halve  four  pounds  of  apricots, 
put  them  in  a  dish,  and  strew  among 
them  three  pounds  of  fine  loaf-sugar 
powdered.  When  the  sugar  melts, 
set  the  fruit  over  a  stove  to  do  very 
gently  ;  as  each  piece  becomes  ten- 
der, take  it  out,  and  put  it  into  a 
china  bowl.  When  all  are  done,  and 
the  boiling  heat  a  little  abated,  pour 
the  syrup  over  them.  In  a  day  or 
two  remove  the  syrup,  leaving  only 
a  little  in  each  half.  In  a  clay  or 
two  more  turn  them,  and  so  con- 
tinue daily  till  quite  dry,  in  the  sun 
or  in  a  warm  place.  Keep  the  apri- 
cots in  boxes,  with  layers  of  fine 
paper. 

APRICOTS  PRESERVED.  There 
are  various  ways  of  doing  this :  one 
is  by  steeping  them  in  brandy.  Wipe, 
weigh,  and  pick  the  fruit,  and  have 
ready  a  quarter  of  the  weight  of  loaf 
sugar  in  fine  powder.  Put  the  fruit 
into  an  ice-pot  that  shuts  very  close, 
throw  the  sugar  over  it,  and  then 
cover  the  fruit  with  brandy.  Be- 
tween the  top  and  cover  of  the  pot, 
fit  in  a  piece  of  thick  writing  paper. 
Set  the  pot  into  a  saucepan  of  water, 
and  heat  it  without  boiling,  till  the 
brandy  be  as  hot  as  vou  can  bear 


APR 


A  RO 


your  finger  in  it.  Put  the  fruit  into 
ajar,  and  pour  the  brandy  on  it. 
When  cold,  put  a  bladder  over,  and 
tie  it  down  tight. — Apricots  may  al- 
so be  preserved  in  jelly.  Pare  the 
fruit  very  thin,  and  stone  it  ;  weigh 
an  equal  quantity  of  sugar  in  tine 
powder,  and  strew  over  it.  Next 
day  boil  very  gently  till  they  are 
clear,  remove  them  into  a  bowl,  and 
pour  in  the  liquor.  The  follow- 
ing day,  mix  it  with  a  quart  of 
codlin  liquor,  made  by  boiling  and 
straining,  and  a  pound  of  fine  sugar. 
Let  it  boil  quickly  till  it  comes  to  a 
jelly ;  put  the  fruit  into  it,  give  it 
one  boil,  skim  it  well,  and  distribute 
into  small  pots. — A  beautiful  pre- 
serve may  also  be  made  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner.  Having  selected 
the  finest  ripe  apricots,  pare  them 
as  thin  as  possible,  and  weigh  them. 
Lay  them  in  halves  on  dishes,  with 
the  hollow  part  upwards.  Prepare 
an  equal  weight  of  loaf  sugar  finely 
pounded,  and  strew  it  over  them; 
in  the  mean  time  break  the  stones, 
and  blanch  the  kernels.  When  the 
fruit  has  lain  twelve  hours,  put  it 
into  a  preserving  pan,  with  the  sugar 
and  juice,  and  also  the  kernels.  Let 
it  simmer  very  gently  till  it  becomes 
clear ;  then  take  out  the  pieces  of 
apricot  singly  as  they  are  done,  put 
them  into  small  pots,  and  pour  the 
syrup  and  kernels  over  them.  The 
scum  must  be  taken  off  as  it  rises, 
and  the  pots  covered  with  brandy 
paper. — Green  apricots  are  pre- 
served in  a  different  way.  Lay  vine 
or  apricot  leaves  at  the  bottom  of 
the  pan,  then  fruit  and  leaves  alter- 
nately till  full,  the  upper  layer  being 
thick  with  leaves.  Then  fill  the  pan 
with  spring  w  ater,  and  cover  it  down, 
that  no  steam  may  escape.  Set  the 
pan  at  a  distance  from  the  fire,  that 
in  four  or  five  hours  the  fruit  may 
be  soft,  but  not  cracked.  Make  a 
thin  syrup  of  some  of  the  water,  and 
drain  the  fruit.  When  both  are  cold, 
put  the  fruit  into  the  pan,  and  the 
s^rup  to  it ;  keep  the  pan  at  a  pro- 


per distance  from  the  fire  till  the 
apricots  green,  but  on  no  account 
boil  or  crack  them.  Remove  the 
fruit  very  carefully  into  a  pan  with 
the  syrup  for  two  or  three  days, 
then  pour  off  as  much  of  it  as 
will  be  necessary,  boil  with  more 
sugar  to  make  a  rich  syrup,  and  add 
a  little  sliced  ginger  to  it.  When 
cold,  and  the  thin  syrup  has  all  been 
drained  from  the  fruit,  pour  the 
thick  over  it.  The  former  will  serve 
to  sweeten  pies. 

APRICOT  CHEESE.  Weigh  atf 
equal  quantity  of  pared  fruit  and 
sugar,  wet  the  latter  a  very  little, 
and  let  it  boil  quickly,  or  the  colour 
will  be  spoiled.  Blanch  the  kernels 
and  add  them  to  it :  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes  will  boil  it.  Put  it  in  small 
pots  or  cups  half  filled. 

APRICOT  JAM.  When  the  fruit 
is  nearly  ripe,  pare  and  cut  some  in 
halves ;  break  the  stones,  blanch  the 
kernels,  and  put  them  to  the  fruit. 
Boil  the  parings  in  a  little  water,  and 
strain  it:  to  a  pound  of  fruit  add 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine 
sifted  sugar,  and  a  glass  of  the  water 
in  which  the  parings  were  boiled. 
Stir  it  over  a  brisk  fire  till  it  becomes 
rather  stiff:  when  cold,  put  apple 
jelly  over  the  jam,  and  tie  it  down 
with  brandy  paper. 

APRICOT  PUDDING.  Halve 
twelve  large  apricots,  and  scald  them 
till  they  are  soft.  Meanwhile  pour 
on  the  grated  crumbs  of  a  penny 
loaf  a  pint  of  boiling  cream  ;  when 
half  cold,  add  four  ounces  of  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  four  beaten  eggs,  and  a 
glass  of  white  wine.  Pound  the 
apricots  in  a  mortar,  with  some  or 
all  of  the  kernels  ;  then  mix  the  fruit 
and  other  ingredients  together,  put 
a  paste  round  a  dish,  and  bake  the 
pudding  in  half  an  hour. 

AROMATIC  VINEGAR.  Mix 
with  common  vinegar  a  quantity  of 
powdered  chalk  or  whiting,  sufficient 
to  destroy  the  acidity  ;  and  when 
the  white  sediment  is  formed,  pour 
off  the  insipid  liquor.  The  powder 
Hi 


ART 


ASP 


is  then  to  be  dried,  and  some  oil  of 
vitriol  poured  upon  it,  as  long  as 
white  acid  fumes  continue  to  as- 
cend. This  substance  forms  the 
essential  ingredient,  the  fumes  of 
which  are  particularly  useful  in  pu- 
rifying rooms  and  places  where  any 
contagion  is  suspected. 

ARROW  ROOT.  This  valuable 
article  has  often  been  counterfeited : 
the  American  is  the  best,  and  may 
generally  be  known  by  its  colour 
and  solidity.  If  genuine,  the  arrow 
root  is  very  nourishing,  especially 
for  weak  bowels.  Put  into  a  sauce- 
pan half  a  pint  of  water,  a  glass  of 
sherry,  or  a  spoonful  of  brandy, 
grated  nutmeg,  and  fine  sugar.  Boil 
it  up  once,  then  mix  it  by  degrees 
into  a  dessert-spoonful  of  arrow  root, 
previously  rubbed  smooth  with  two 
spoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Return  the 
whole  into  the  saucepan,  stir  and 
boil  it  three  minutes. 

ARSENIC.  The  fatal  effects  of 
mineral  poisons  are  too  often  ex- 
perienced, and  for  want  of  timely 
assistance  but  seldom  counteracted. 
Arsenic  and  other  baleful  ingredi- 
ents, if  used  for  the  destruction  of 
vermin,  should  never  be  kept  with 
common  articles,  or  laid  in  the  way 
of  children.  But  if,  unfortunately, 
this  deadly  poison  should  by  some 
m^istake  be  taken  inwardly,  the  most 
effectual  remedy  will  be  a  table- 
spoonful  of  powdered  charcoal,  mix- 
ed with  honey,  butter,  or  treacle, 
and  swallowed  immediately.  Two. 
hours  afterwards,  take  an  emetic  or 
an  opening  draught,  to  cleanse  away 
the  whole  from  the  stomach  and 
bowels.  The  baneful  effects  of  ver- 
digris, from  the  use  of  copper  boilers 
and  saucepans,  may  be  counteracted 
by  the  same  means,  if  resorted  to 
in  time,  and  no  remedy  is  so  likely 
to  become  effectual. 

ARTICHOKES.  Soak  them  in 
cold  water,  wash  them  well,  and  boil 
them  gently  in  plenty  of  water.  If 
young,  they  will  be  ready  in  half  an 
hour  •  if  otherwise,  they  will  not  be 
14 


done  in  twice  that  time.  The  surest 
way  to  know  when  they  are  boiled 
enough  is  to  draw  out  a  leaf,  and 
see  whether  they  be  tender ;  but 
they  cannot  be  properly  boiled  with- 
out much  water,  which  tends  also 
to  preserve  their  colour.  Trim  and 
drain  them  on  a  sieve,  serve  with 
melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
small  cups. 

ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS,  if  dri- 
ed, must  be  well  soaked,  and  stewed 
in  weak  gravy.  Or  they  may  be 
boiled  in  milk,  and  served  with  cream 
sauce,  or  added  to  ragouts,  French 
pies,  Szc.  If  intended  to  keep  in 
the  winter,  the  bottoms  must  be 
slowly  dried,    and  put   into  paper 


ASPARAGUS.  Having  carefully 
scraped  the  stalks  till  they  appear 
white,  and  thrown  them  into  cold 
water,  tie  them  up  in  small  bundles 
with  tape,  and  cut  the  stalks  of  an 
equal  length.  Put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  of  boiling  water  a  little  salted, 
and  take  them  up  as  soon  as  they 
begin  to  be  tender,  or  they  will  lose 
both  their  taste  and  colour.  Mean- 
while make  toasts  well  browned  for 
the  bottom  of  the  dish,  moisten  them 
in  the  asparagus  liquor,  place  them 
regularly,  and  pour  on  some  melted 
butter.  Then  lay  the  asparagus  on 
the  toasts  round  the  dish,  with  the 
heads  united  at  the  centre,  but  pour 
no  butter  over  them.  Serve  with 
melted  butter  in  a  sauce  tureen,  and 
separate  cups,  that  the  company  may 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  their 
taste. — As  this  vegetable  is  one  of 
the  greatest  delicacies  which  the  gar- 
den affords,  no  person  should  be  un- 
acquainted with  the  means  of  pro- 
ducing it  in  constant  succession. 
Toward  the  end  of  July,  the  stalks 
of  the  asparagus  are  to  be  cut  down, 
and  the  beds  forked  up  and  raked 
smooth.  If  the  weather  be  dry,  they 
should  be  watered  with  the  drain  of 
a  dunghill,  and  left  rather  hollow  in 
the  middle  to  retain  the  moisture. 
In  about  a  fortnight  the  stalks  will 


ASS 


AST 


begin  to  appear,  and  the  watering 
should  be  continued  once  a  week  if 
the  weather  be  dry.  Asparagus  may 
thus  be  cut  till  nea^  the  end  of  Sep- 
tember, and  then  by  making  five  or 
six  hot-beds  during  the  winter,  a 
regular  succession  may  be  provided 
^  for  almost  every  month  in  the  year. 
To  obviate  the  objection  of  cutting 
the  same  beds  twice  a  year,  two  or 
three  others  may  be  left  uncut  in  the 
spring,  and  additional  beds  made  for 
the  purpose.  The  seed  is  cheap, 
and  in  most  places  the  dung  may  be 
easily  procured.  There  is  no  need 
to  continue  the  old  beds  when  they 
begin  to  fail ;  it  is  better  to  make 
new  ones,  and  to  force  the  old  roots 
by  applying  some  rotten  dung  on  the 
tops  of  the  beds,  and  to  sow  seed 
every  year  for  new  plants. 

ASSES'  MILK,  so  beneficial  in 
consumptive  cases,  should  be  milked 
into  a  glass  that  is  kept  warm,  by 
being  placed  in  a  bason  of  hot  water. 
The  fixed  air  that  it  contains  some- 
times occasions  pain  in  the  stomach ; 
at  first  therefore  a  tea-spoonful  of 
rum  may  be  taken  with  it,  but  should 
only  be  put  in  the  moment  it  is  to 
be  swallowed.  The  genuine  milk 
far  surpasses  any  imitation  of  it  that 
can  be  made  ;  but  a  substitute  may 
be  found  in  the  following  compo- 
sition. Boil  a  quart  of  water  with 
a  quart  of  new  milk,  an  ounce  of 
white  sugar-candy,  half  an  ounce  of 
eringo-root,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
conserve  of  roses,  till  the  quantity 
be  half  wasted.  As  this  is  an  astrin- 
gent, the  doses  must  be  proportioned 
accordingly,  and  the  mixture  is 
wholesome  only  while  it  remains 
sweet. — Another  way.  Mix  two 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  two  of 
milk,  and  an  egg  well  beaten.  Sweet- 
en with  white  sugar-candy  pounded : 
J  this  may  be  taken  twice  or  thrice  a 
I  <lay.  Or,  boil  two  ounces  of  harts- 
Jiom-shavings,  two  ounces  of  pearl 


barley,  two  ounces  of  candied  eringo- 
root,  and  one  dozen  of  snails  that 
have  been  bruised,  in  two  quarts 
of  water  till  reduced  to  one.  Mix 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  new  milk, 
when  taken,  twice  a  day. 

ASTHMA.  As  this  complaint 
generally  attacks  aged  people,  the 
best  mode  of  relief  will  be  to  attend 
carefully  to  diet  and  exercise,  which 
should  be  light  and  easy,  and  to 
avoid  as  much  as  possible  an  expo- 
sure to  cold  and  frosty  air.  The 
temperature  of  the  apartment  should 
be  equalised  to  moderate  summer's 
heat  by  flues  and  stoves,  and  fre- 
quently ventilated.  A  dish  of  the 
best  coffee,  newly  ground  and  made 
very  strong,  and  taken  frequently 
without  milk  or  sugar,  has  been  found 
highly  beneficial.  An  excellent  diet 
drink  may  be  made  of  toast  and 
water,  with  the  addition  of  a  little 
vinegar,  or  a  few  grains  of  nitre. 
Tar  water  is  strongly  recommended, 
and  also  the  smoking  of  the  dried 
leaves  of  stramonium,  commonly 
called  the  thorn-apple. 

ASTRINGENT  BOLUS,  proper 
to  be  taken  in  female  complaints, 
arising  from  excessive  evacuations. 
Fifteen  grains  of  powdered  alum, 
and  five  grains  of  gum  kino,  made 
into  a  bolus  with  a  little  syrup,  and 
given  every  four  or  five  hours  till 
the  discharge  abates. 

ASTRINGENT  MIXTURE,  in 
case  of  dysentery,  may  be  made  of 
three  ounces  of  cinnamon  water, 
mixed  with  as  much  common  water, 
an  ounce  and  a  half  of  spirituous 
cinnamon-water,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  japonic  confection.  A  spoonful 
or  two  of  this  mixture  may  be  taken 
every  four  hours,  after  the  necessary 
evacuations  have  been  allowed,  and 
where  the  dysentery  has  not  been 
of  long  standing,  interposing  every 
second  or  third  day  a  dose  of  rhu- 
barb. 

16 


B  AK 


B  AK 


B. 


Bacon,  though  intended  to  be  a 
cheap  article  of  housekeeping,  is 
often,  through  mismanagement,  ren- 
dered one  of  the  most  expensive. 
Generally  twice  as  much  is  dressed 
as  need  be,  and  of  course  there  is  a 
deal  of  waste.  When  sent  to  table 
as  an  accompaniment  to  boiled  poul- 
try or  veal,  a  pound  and  a  half  is 
plenty  for  a  dozen  people.  Bacon 
will  boil  better,  and  swell  more  free- 
ly, if  the  rind  is  taken  off  before  it 

^  is  dressed  ;  and  when  excessively 
salt,  it  should  be  soaked  an  hour  or 

. '  two  in  warm  water.  If  the  bacon 
be  dried,  pare  off  the  rusty  and 
smoked  part,  trim  it  neatly  on  the 
under  side,  and  scrape  the  rind  as 
clean  as  possible.  Or  take  it  up 
when  sufficiently  boiled,  scrape  the 
under  side,  and  cut  off  the  rind  : 
grate  a  crust  of  bread  over  it,  and 
place  it  a  few  minutes  before  the  fire 
to  brown.  Two  pounds  will  require 
to  be  boiled  gently  about  an  hour 
and  a  half,  according  to  its  thick- 
ness :  the  hock  or  gammon  being 
very  thick,  will  take  more.  See 
Dried  Bacon. 

BAKING.  This  mode  of  pre- 
paring a  dinner  is  undoubtedly  one 
of  the  cheapest  and  most  convenient, 
especially  for  a  small  family ;  and 
the  oven  is  almost  the  only  kitchen 
which  the  poor  man  possesses. 
Much  however  depends  on  the  care 
•  and  ability  of  the  baker:  in  the 
country  especially,  where  the  baking 
of  dinners  is  not  always  considered 
as  a  regular  article  of  business,  it 
is  rather  a  hazardous  experiment  to 
send  a  valuable  joint  to  the  oven ; 
and  more  is  often  wasted  and  spoiled 
by  the  heedless  conduct  of  the  parish 
cook,  than  would  have  paid  for  the 
boiling  or  roasting  at  home.  But 
supposing  the  oven  to  be  managed 
with  care  and  judgment,  there  are 
many  joints  which  may  be  baked  to 
great  advantage,  and  will  be  found 
16 


but  little  inferior  to  roasting.  Par*- 
ticidarly,  legs  and  loins  of  pork,  legs 
of  mutton,  fillets  of  veal,  and  other 
joints,  if  the  meat  be  fat  and  good, 
will  be  eaten  with  great  satisfac- 
tion, when  they  come  from  the 
oven.  A  sucking  pig  is  also  well 
adapted  to  the  purpose,  and  is  equal 
to  a  roasted  one,  if  properly  managed. 
When  sent  to  the  baker,  it  should 
have  its  ears  and  tail  covered  with 
buttered  paper  fastened  on,  and  a 
bit  of  butter  tied  up  in  a  piece  of 
linen  to  baste  the  back  with,  other- 
wise it  will  be  apt  to  blister.  A  goose 
should  be  prepared  the  same  as  for 
roasting,  placing  it  on  a  stand,  and 
taking  care  to  turn  it  when  it  is  half 
done.  A  duck  the  same.  If  a  but- 
tock of  beef  is  to  be  baked,  it  should 
be  well  washed,  after  it  has  been  in 
salt  about  a  week,  and  put  into  a 
brown  earthen  pan  with  a  pint  of 
water.  Cover  the  pan  tight  over 
with  two  or  three  thicknesses  of 
writing  paper,  and  give  it  four  or  five 
hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  Brown 
paper  should  never  be  used  with 
baked  dishes ;  the  pitch  and  tar 
which  it  contains  wiil  give  the  meat 
a  smoky  bad  taste.  Previously  to 
baking  a  ham,  soak  it  in  water  an 
hour,  take  it  out  and  wipe  it,  and 
make  a  crust  sutBcient  to  cover  it 
all  over  ;  and  if  done  in  a  moderate 
oven,  it  will  cut  fuller  of  gravy,  and 
be  of  a  finer  flavour,  than  a  boiled 
one.  Small  cod-fish,  haddock,  and 
mackarel  will  bake  well,  with  a  dust 
of  flour  and  some  bits  of  butter  put 
on  them.  Large  eels  should  be  stuff- 
ed. Herrings  and  sprats  are  to  be 
baked  in  a  brown  pan,  with  vinegar 
and  a  little  spice,  and  tied  over  with 
paper.  These  and  various  other  ar- 
ticles may  be  baked  so  as  to  give 
full  satisfaction,  if  the  oven  be  under 
judicious  management. 

BAKED   CARP.     Clean  a  large 
carp,  put  in  a  Portuguese  stuffing, 


BAK 


BAN 


and  sow  it  up.  Brush  it  all  over 
with  the  yolk  of  an  eg^,  throw  on 
plenty  of  crumbs,  and  drop  on  oiled 
butter  to  baste  with.  Place  the  carp 
in  a  deep  earthen  dish,  with  a  pint 
of  stock,  a  few  sliced  onions,  some 
bay  leaves,  a  bunch  of  herbs,  such 
as  basil,  thyme,  parsley,  and  both 
sorts  of  marjoram  ;  half  a  pint  of 
port  wine,  and  six  anchovies.  Cover 
over  the  pan,  and  bake  it  an  hour. 
Let  it  be  done  before  it  is  wanted. 
Pour  the  liquor  from  it,  and  keep 
the  fish  hot  while  you  heat  up  the 
liquor  with  a  good  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  a  tea-spoonful  of  mus- 
tard, a  little  cayenne,  and  a  spoonful 
of  soy.  Serve  it  on  the  dish,  gar- 
nished with  lemon  and  parsley,  and 
horse-radish,  and  put  the  gravy  into 
the  sauce  tureen. 

BAKED  CUSTARD.  Boil  a  pint 
of  cream  and  half  a  pint  of  milk  with 
a  little  mace,  cinnamon  and  lemon 
peel.  When  cold,  mix  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  and  sweeten  the  custard. 
Make  the  cups  or  paste  nearly  full, 
and  bake  them  ten  minutes. 

BAKED  HERRINGS.  Wash  and 
drain,  without  wiping  them ;  and 
when  drawn,  they  should  not  be 
opened.  Season  with  allspice  in 
fine  powder,  salt,  and  a  few  whole 
cloves.  Lay  them  in  a  pan  with 
plenty  of  black  pepper,  an  onion, 
and  a  few  bay  leaves.  Add  half 
vinegar  and  half  small  beer,  enough 
to  cover  them.  Put  paper  over  the 
pan,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  If 
it  be  wished  to  make  them  look  red, 
throw  a  little  saltpetre  over  them  the 
night  before, 

BAKED  MILK.  A  very  useful 
article  may  be  made  for  weakly  and 
consumptive  persons  in  the  following 
manner.  Put  a  gallon  of  milk  into 
a  jar,  tie  white  paper  over  it,  and 
let  it  stand  all  night  in  the  oven  when 
baking  is  over.  Next  morning  it  will 
be  as  thick  as  cream,  and  may  be 
drank  two  or  three  times  a  day. 

BAKED  PEARS.  Those  least  tit 
to  eat  raw,  are  often  the  best  for 


baking.  Do  not  pare  them,  but 
wipe  and  lay  them  on  tin  plates,  and 
bake  them  in  a  slow  oven.  When 
done  enough  to  bear  it,  flatten  them 
with  a  silver  spoon ;  and  when  done 
through,  put  them  on  a  dish.  They 
should  be  baked  three  or  four  times, 
and  very  gently. 

BAKED  PIKE.  Scale  and  open 
it  as  near  the  throat  as  possible,  and 
then  put  in  the  following  stufliing. 
Grated  bread,  herbs,  anchovies, 
oysters,  suet,  salt,  pepper,  mace, 
half  a  pint  of  cream,  four  yolks  of 
eggs;  mix  all  over  the  fire  till  it 
thickens,  and  then  sow  it  up  in  the 
fish.  Little  bits  of  butter  should  be 
scattered  over  it,  before  it  is  sent  to 
the  oven.  Serve  it  with  gravy  sauce, 
butter  and  anchovy.  In  carving  a 
pike,  if  the  back  and  belly  be  slit 
up,  and  each  slice  drawn  gently 
downwards,  fewer  bones  will  be  given 
at  table. 

BAKED  SOUP.  A  cheap  and 
plentiful  dish  for  poor  families,  or 
to  give  away,  may  be  made  of  a  pound 
of  any  kind  of  meat  cut  in  slices, 
with  two  onions,  two  carrots  sliced, 
two  ounces  of  rice,  a  pint  of  split 
peas,  or  whole  ones  if  previously 
soaked,  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Put  the  whole  into  an  earthen 
jug  or  pan,  adding  a  gallon  of  water : 
cover  it  very  close,  and  bake  it. 

BALM  WINE.  Boil  three  pounds 
of  lump  sugar  in  a  gallon  of  water ; 
skim  it  clean,  put  in  a  handful  of 
balm,  and  boil  it  ten  minutes.  Strain 
it  oflf,  cool  it,  put  in  some  yeast,  and 
let  it  stand  two  days.  Add  the  rind 
and  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  let  it  stand 
in  the  cask  six  months. 

BALSAMIC  VINEGAR,  One  of 
the  best  remedies  for  wounds  or 
bruises  is  the  balsan^ic  or  anti-putrid 
vinegar,  which  is  made  in  the  follow- 
ing manner.  Take  a  handful  of 
sage  leaves  and  flowers,  the  same  of 
lavender,  hyssop,  thyme,  and  sa- 
vory ;  two  heads  of  garlic,  and  a 
handful  of  salt.  These  are  to  be 
infiised  in  some  of  the  best  white- 

D  17 


BAR 


BAH 


wine  vinegar ;  and  after  standing  a 
fortnight  or  three  weeks,  it  will  be 
fit  for  use. 

BANBURY  CAKES.  Work  a 
pound  of  butter  into  a  pound  of 
white-bread  dough,  the  same  as  for 
puff  paste  ;  roll  it  out  very  thin, 
and  cut  it  into  bits  of  an  even  iorm, 
the  size  intended  for  the  cakes. 
Moisten  some  powder  sugar  with  a 
little  brandy,  mix  in  some  clean  cur- 
rants, put  a  little  of  it  on  each  bit 
of  paste,  close  them  up,  and  bake 
them  on  a  tin.  When  they  are  taken 
out,  sift  some  fine  sugar  over  them. 

BARBERRIES,  when  preserved 
for  tarts,  must  be  picked  clean  from 
the  stalks,  choosing  such  as  are  free 
from  stones.  To  every  pound  of 
fruit,  weigh  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  lump  sugar  ;  put  the  fruit  into  a 
stone  jar,  and  either  set  it  on  a  hot 
hearth,  or  in  a  saucepan  of  water, 
and  let  them  simmer  very  slowly  till 
soft.  Then  put  them  and  the  sugar 
into  a  preserving-pan,  and  boil  them 
gently  fifteen  minutes. — ^To  preserve 
barberries  in  bunches,  prepare  some 
fleaks  of  white  wool,  three  inches 
long,  and  a  quarter  of  an  inch  wide. 
Tie  the  stalks  of  the  fruit  on  the 
stick,  from  within  an  inch  of  one  end 
to  beyond  the  other,  so  as  to  make 
them  look  handsome.  Simmer  them 
in  some  syrup  two  successive  days, 
covering  them  each  time  with  it  when 
cold.  When  they  look  clear,  they 
are  simmered  enough.  The  third 
day,  they  should  be  treated  like 
other  candied  fruit.   See  Candied. 

BARBERRY  DROPS.  Cut  off 
the  black  tops,  and  roast  the  fruit 
before  the  fire,  till  it  is  soft  enough 
to  pulp  with  a  silver  spoon  through 
a  sieve  into  a  china  bason.  Then 
set  the  bason  in  a  saucepan  of  water, 
the  top  of  which  will  just  fit  it,  or 
on  a  hot  hearth,  and  stir  it  till  it 
grows  thick.~  When  cold,  put  to 
every  pint  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
double  refined  sugar,  pounded  and 
sifted  through  a  lawn  sieve,  which 
must  be  covered  with  a  fine  linen« 
1« 


to  prevent  waste  while  sifting.  Beat 
the  sugar  and  juice  together  three 
hours  and  a  half  if  a  large  quantity, 
but  two  and  a  half  for  less.  Then 
drop  it  on  sheets  of  white  thick  pa- 
per, the  size  of  drops  sold  in  the 
shops.  Some  fruit  is  not  so  sour, 
and  then  less  sugar  is  necessary.  To 
know  when  there  is  enough,  mix  till 
well  incorporated,  and  then  drop. 
If  it  run,  there  is  not  enough  sugar ; 
and  if  there  be  too  much,  it  will  be 
rough.  A  dry  room  will  suftice  to 
dry  them.  No  metal  must  touch 
the  juice  but  the  point  of  a  knife, 
just  to  take  the  drop  off*  the  end  of 
the  wooden  spoon,  and  then  as  little 
as  possible. 

BARLEY  BROTH.  Wash  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  Scotch  bar- 
ley in  a  little  cold  water,  put  it  in  a 
soup  pot  with  a  shin  or  leg  of  beef, 
or  a  knuckle  of  veal  of  about  ten 
pounds  weight,  sawn  into  four 
pieces.  Cover  it  with  cold  water, 
and  set  it  on  the  fire  ;  when  it  boils 
skim  it  very  clean,  and  put  in  two 
onions.  Set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire 
to  simmer  very  gently  about  two 
hours  ;  then  skim  off  all  the  fat,  put 
in  two  heads  of  celery,  and  a  large 
turnip  cut  into  small  squares.  Season 
it  with  salt,  let  it  boil  an  hour  and 
a  half  longer,  and  it  is  done.  Take 
out  the  meat  carefully  with  a  slice, 
cover  it  up  and  keep  it  warm  by  the 
fire,  and  skim  the  broth  well  before 
it  is  put  into  the  tureen.  This  dish 
is  much  admired  in  Scotland,  where 
it  is  regarded,  not  only  as  highly 
nutricious,  but  as  a  necessary  article 
of  domestic  economy  :  for  besides 
the  excellent  soup  thus  obtained, 
the  meat  also  becomes  an  agreeable 
dish,  served  up  with  sauce  in  the 
following  manner.  Reserve  a  quart 
of  the  soup,  put  about  an  ounce  of 
flour  into  a  stewpan,  pour  the  liquor 
to  it  by  degrees,  stirring  it  well  to- 
gether till  it  boils.  Add  a  glass  of 
port  wine  or  mushroom  ketchup,  and 
let  it  gently  boil  up ;  strain  the  sauce 
through  a  sieve  over  the  meat,  and 


BAS 


BAT 


add  to  it  some  capers,  minced  gher- 
kins, or  walnuts.  The  flavour  may 
be  varied  or  improved,  by  the  ad- 
dition of  a  little  curry  powder,  ra- 
gout, or  any  other  store  sauces. 

BARLEY  GRUEL.  Wash  four 
ounces  of  pearl  barley,  boil  it  in  two 
quarts  of  water  and  a  stick  of  cin- 
namon, till  reduced  to  a  quart.  Strain 
and  return  it  into  the  saucepan  with 
some  sugar,  and  three  quarters  of  a 
pint  of  port  wine.  It  may  be  warmed 
up,  and  used  as  wanted. 

BARLEY  SUGAR.  This  well 
known  article  of  confectionaiy  is 
made  in  the  following  manner.  Put 
some  common  or  clarified  syrup  in- 
to a  saucepan  with  a  spout,  such  as 
for  melting  butter,  if  little  is  wanted 
to  be  made,  and  boil  it  till  it  comes 
to  what  is  called  carimel,  carefully 
taking  oflT  whatever  scum  may  arise  ; 
and  having  prepared  a  marble  stone, 
either  with  butter  or  sweet  oil,  just 
sufficiently  to  prevent  sticking,  pour 
the  syrup  gently  along  the  marble, 
in  long  sticks  of  whatever  thickness 
may  be  desired.  While  hot,  twist 
it  at  each  end  ;  and  let  it  remain  till 
cold,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  imme- 
diate use.  The  rasped  rind  of  lemon, 
boiled  up  in  the  syrup,  gives  a  very 
agreeable  flavour  to  barley  sugar; 
and  indeed  the  best  is  commonly  so 
prepared. 

BARLEY  WATER.  Wash  a  hand- 
ful of  common  barley,  then  simmer 
it  gently  in  three  pints  of  water,  with 
a  bit  of  lemon  peel.  Or  boil  an 
ounce  of  pearl  barley  a  few  minutes 
to  cleanse  it,  and  then  put  on  it  a 
quart  of  water.  Simmer  it  an  hour : 
when  half  done,  put  into  it  a  piece 
of  fresh  lemon  peel,  and  one  bit  of 
sugar.  If  likely  to  be  thick,  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  water,  and  a  lit- 
tle lemon  juice,  if  approved.  This 
makes  a  very  pleasant  drink  for  a 
sick  person ;  but  the  former  is  less 
apt  to  nauseate. 

BASIL  VINEGAR.  Sweet  basil 
is  in  full  perfection  about  the  middle 
of  August,  when   the  fresh    green 


leaves  should  be  gathered,  and  put 
into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle.  Cover 
the  leaves  with  vinegar,  and  let  them 
steep  for  ten  days.  If  it  be  wished 
to  have  the  infusion  very  strong, 
strain  out  the  liquor,  put  in  some 
fresh  leaves,  and  let  them  steep  for 
ten  days  more.  This  is  a  very  agree- 
able addition  to  sauces  and  soups, 
and  to  the  mixture  usually  made  for 

BASILICON.  Yellow  basilicon  is 
made  of  equal  quantities  of  bees- 
wax, white  rosin,  and  frankincense. 
Melt  them  together  over  a  slow  fire, 
add  the  same  weight  of  fresh  lard, 
and  strain  it  off"  while  it  is  warm. 
This  ointment  is  used  for  cleansing 
and  healing  wounds  and  ulcers. 

BASKET  SALT.  This  fine  and 
delicate  article  is  chiefly  made  from 
the  salt  springs  in  Cheshire,  and  dif- 
fers from  the  common  brine  salt, 
usually  called  sea  salt,  not  only  in 
its  whiteness  and  purity,  but  in  the 
fineness  of  its  grain.  Some  families 
entertain  prejudices  against  basket 
salt,  notwithstanding  its  superior 
delicacy,  from  an  idea,  which  does 
not  appear  warranted,  that  perni- 
cious articles  are  used  in  its  prepa- 
ration ;  it  may  therefore  be  proper 
to  mention,  that  by  dissolving  com- 
mon salt,  again  evaporating  into  dry- 
ness, and  then  reducing  it  to  powder 
in  a  mortar,  a  salt  nearly  equal  to 
basket  salt  may  be  obtained,  fine 
and  of  a  good  colour,  and  well  adapt- 
ed to  the  use  of  the  table. 

BATH  BUNS.  Rub  half  a  pound 
of  butter  into  a  pound  of  fine  flour, 
with  five  eggs,  and  three  spoonfuls 
of  thick  yeast.  Set  it  before  the  fire 
to  rise ;  then  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  powdered  sugar,  and  an  ounce  of 
carraway  seeds.  Mix  them  well  in, 
roll  it  out  in  little  cakes,  strew  on 
carraway  comfits,  and  bake  on  tins. 

BATTER  PUDDING.  Rub  by 
degrees  three  spoonfuls  of  fine  flour 
extremely  smooth,  into  a  pint  of 
milk.  Simmer  till  it  thickens,  stir 
it  in  two  ounces  of  butter,  set  it  to 
19 


BEE 


BEE 


cool,  and  then  add  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs.  Flour  a  wet  cloth,  or  butter 
a  bason,  and  put  the  batter  into  it. 
Tie  it  tight,  and  plunge  it  into  boil- 
ing water,  the  bottom  upwards. 
Boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  serve 
with  plain  butter.  If  a  little  ginger, 
nutmeg,  and  lemon  peel  be  added, 
serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

BEAN  BREAD.  Blanch  half  a 
pound  of  almonds,  and  put  them  in- 
to water  to  preserve  their  colour. 
Cut  the  almonds  edgeways,  wipe 
them  dry,  and  sprinkle  over  them 
half  a  pound  of  fine  loaf  sugar  pound- 
ed and  sifted.  Beat  up  the  white 
of  an  egg  with  two  spoonfuls  of 
orange-flower  water,  moisten  the  al- 
monds with  the  froth,  lay  them  light- 
ly on  wafer  paper,  and  bake  them  on 
tins. 

BEAN  PUDDING.  Boil  and 
blanch  some  old  green-beans,  beat 
them  in  a  mortar,  with  very  little 
pepper  and  salt,  some  cream,  and 
the  yolk  of  an  egg.  A  little  spinach- 
juice  will  give  a  finer  colour,  but  it 
is  as  good  without.  Boil  it  an  hour, 
in  a  bason  that  will  just  hold  it; 
pour  parsley  and  butter  over,  and 
serve  it  up  with  bacon. 

BEE  HIVES.  Common  bee  hives 
made  of  straw  are  generally  prefer- 
red, because  they  are  not  likely  to 
be  overheated  by  the  rays  of  the 
sun  ;  they  will  also  keep  out  the  cold 
better  than  wood,  and  are  cheaper 
than  any  other  material.  As  clean- 
liness however  is  of  great  conse- 
quence in  the  culture  of  these  deli- 
cate and  industrious  insects,  the 
bottom  or  floor  of  the  hive  should  be 
covered  with  gypsum  or  plaster  of 
Paris,  of  which  they  are  very  fond  ; 
and  the  outside  of  their  habitation 
should  be  overspread  with  a  cement 
made  of  two-thirds  of  cow-dung,  and 
one-third  of  ashes.  This  coating 
will  exclude  noxious  insects,  which 
would  otherwise  perforate  and  lodge 
in  the  straw  ;  it  will  also  secure  the 
bees  from  cold  and  wet,  while  it  ex- 
hales an  odour  which  to  them  is  vc- 
20 


ry  grateful.  The  inner  part  of  the 
hive  should  be  furnished  with  two 
thin  pieces  of  oak,  or  peeled  branch- 
es of  lime  tree,  placed  across  each 
other  at  right  angles,  which  will 
greatly  facilitate  the  construction 
of  the  combs,  and  support  them  when 
filled  with  honey.  A  good  bee-hive 
ought  to  be  so  planned  as  to  be  ca- 
pable of  enlargement  or  contraction, 
according  to  the  number  of  the 
swarm  ;  to  admit  of  being  opened 
without  disturbing  the  bees,  either 
for  the  purpose  of  cleaning  it,  of 
freeing  it  from  noxious  insects,  or 
for  the  admission  of  a  stock  of  pro- 
vision for  the  winter.  It  should  also 
admit  of  the  produce  being  removed 
without  injury  to  the  bees,  and  be 
internally  clean,  smooth,  and  free 
from  flaws.  A  hive  of  this  descrip- 
tion may  easily  be  made  of  three  or 
four  open  square  boxes,  fastened  to 
each  other  with  buttons  or  wooden 
pegs,  and  the  joints  closed  M'ith  ce- 
ment. The  whole  may  be  covered 
with  a  moveable  roof,  projecting 
over  the  boxes  to  carry  off  the  rain> 
and  kept  firm  on  the  top  by  a  stone 
being  laid  upon  it.  If  the  swarm  be 
not  very  numerous,  two  or  three 
boxes  will  be  suflScient.  They  should 
be  made  of  wood  an  inch  thick,  that 
the  bees  and  wax  may  be  less  aflect- 
ed  by  the  changes  of  the  atmosphere. 
This  hive  is  so  easily  constructed, 
that  it  is  only  necessary  to  join  four 
boards  together  in  the  simplest  man- 
ner ;  and  a  little  cement  will  cover 
all  defects.  Within  the  upper  part 
of  the  boxes,  two  bars  should  be 
fixed  across  from  one  corner  to  ano- 
ther, to  support  the  combs.  At  the 
lower  end  of  each  box  in  front,  there 
must  be  an  aperture,  or  door,  about 
an  inch  and  an  half  wide,  and  as  high 
as  is  necessary  for  the  bees  to  pass 
without  obstruction.  The  lowest  is 
to  be  left  open  as  a  passage  for  the 
bees,  and  the  others  are  to  be  closed 
by  a  piece  of  wood  fitted  to  the 
aperture.  A  hive  thus  constructed 
may  be  enlarged  or  diminished,  ac- 


BEE 


BEE 


cording  to  the  number  of  boxes ;  and 
a  communication  ^ith  the  internal 
part  can  readily  be  effected  by  re- 
moving the  cover. 

BEE  HOUSE.  An  apiary  or  bee 
house  should  front  the  south,  in  a 
situation  between  the  extremes  of 
heat  and  cold.  It  should  stand  in 
a  valley,  that  the  bees  may  with 
greater  ease  descend  loaded  on  their 
return  to  the  hive  ;  and  near  a  dwel- 
ling-house, but  at  a  distance  from 
noise  and  offensive  smells ;  surround- 
ed with  a  low  wall,  and  in  the  vici- 
nity of  shallow  water.  If  there  be 
no  running  stream  at  hand,  they 
ought  to  be  supplied  with  water  in 
troughs  or  pans,  with  small  stones 
laid  at  the  bottom,  that  the  bees 
may  alight  upon  them  and  drink. 
They  cannot  produce  either  combs, 
honey,  or  food  for  their  maggots, 
without  water  ;  but  the  neighbour- 
hood of  rivers  or  ponds  with  high 
banks  ought  to  be  avoided,  or  the 
bees  will  be  blown  into  the  water 
with  high  winds,  and  be  drowned. 
Care  should  also  be  taken  to  place 
the  hives  in  a  neighbourhood  which 
abounds  with  such  plants  as  will 
supply  the  bees  with  food ;  such  as 
the  oak,  the  pine,  the  willow,  fruit 
trees,  furze,  broom,  mustard,  clover, 
heath,  and  thyme,  particularly  bo- 
rage, which  produces  an  abundance 
of  farina.  The  garden  in  which  the 
bee  house  stands,  should  be  well 
furnished  with  scented  plants  and 
flowers,  and  branchy  shrubs,  that 
it  may  be  easy  to  hive  the  swarms 
which  may  settle  on  them.  See 
Bees,  Hiving,  &c. 

BEEF.  In  every  sort  of  provisions, 
the  best  of  the  kind  goes  the  farthest ; 
it  cuts  out  with  most  advantage,  and 
affords  most  nourishment.  The  best 
way  to  obtain  a  good  article  is  to 
deal  with  shops  of  established  credit. 
You  may  perhaps  pay  a  little  more 
than  by  purchasing  of  those  who 
pretend  to  sell  cheap,  but  you  will 
be  more  than  in  proportion  better 
served.  To  prevent  imposition  more 


effectually,  however,  it  is  necessary 
to  form  our  own  judgment  of  the 
quality  and  value  of  the  articles  to 
be  purchased.  If  the  flesh  of  ox- 
beef  is  young,  it  will  show  a  fine 
smooth  open  grain,  be  of  a  good  red, 
and  feel  tender.  The  fat  should 
look  white  rather  than  yellow,  for 
when  that  is  of  a  deep  colour,  the 
meat  is  seldom  good.  Beef  fed  with 
oil  cakes  is  generally  so,  and  the 
flesh  is  loose  and  flabby.  The  grain 
of  cow-beef  is  closer,  and  the  fat 
whiter,  than  that  of  ox-beef ;  but  the 
lean  is  not  so  bright  a  red.  The 
grain  of  bull-beef  is  closer  still,  the 
fat  hard  and  skinny,  the  lean  of  a 
deep  red,  and  a  stronger  scent.  Ox- 
beef  is  the  reverse;  it  is  also  the 
richest  and  the  largest ;  but  in  small 
families,  and  to  some  tastes,  heifer- 
beef  as  better  still,  if  finely  fed.  In 
old  meat  there  is  a  horny  streak  in 
the  ribs  of  beef :  the  harder  that  is, 
the  older :  and  the  flesh  is  not  finely 
flavoured. 

BEEF  BOUILLI.  A  term  given 
to  boiled  beef,  which,  according  to 
the  French  fashion,  is  simmered  over 
a  slow  fire,  for  the  purpose  of  ex- 
tracting a  rich  soup,  while  at  the 
same  time  the  meat  makes  its  ap- 
pearance at  table,  in  possession  of 
a  full  portion  of  nutricious  succu- 
lence. This  requires  nothing  more 
than  to  stew  the  meat  very  slowly, 
instead  of  keeping  the  pot  quickly 
boiling,  and  taking  up  the  beef  as 
soon  as  it  is  done  enough.  Meat 
cooked  in  this  manner,  aflords  much 
more  nourishment  than  when  dressed 
in  the  common  way,  and  i«  easy  of 
digestion  in  proportion  to  its  tender- 
ness. The  leg  or  shin,  or  the  mid- 
dle of  a  brisket  of  beef,  weighing 
seven  or  eight  pounds,  is  best  adapt- 
ed for  this  purpose.  Put  it  into  a 
soup  pot  or  deep  stewpan  with  cold 
water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  a 
quart  over.  Set  it  on  a  quick  fire 
to  get  the  scum  up,  which  remove 
as  it  rises  ;  then  put  in  two  carrots, 
two  turnips,  two  leeks,  or  two  large 
^1 


BEE 


tEt 


onions,  two  heads  of  celery,  two  or 
three  cloves,  and  a  faggot  of  parsley 
and  sweet  herbs.  Set  the  pot  by 
the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  very 
gently,  till  the  meat  is  just  tender 
enough  to  eat :  this  will  require  four 
or  five  hours.  When  the  beef  is 
done,  take  it  up  carefully  with  a 
slice,  cover  it  up,  and  keep  it  warm 
by  the  fire.  Thicken  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  the  beef  liquor  with  three 
table  spoonfuls  of  flour,  season  it 
with  pepper,  a  glass  of  port  wine  or 
mushroom  ketchup,  or  both,  and 
pour  it  over  the  beef.  Strain  the 
soup  through  a  hair  sieve  into  a  clean 
stewpan,  take  off  the  fat,  cut  the 
vegetables  into  small  squares,  and 
add  them  to  the  soup,  the  flavour  of 
which  may  be  heightened,  by  adding 
a  table-spoonful  of  ketchup. 

BEEF  BROTH.  If  intended  for 
sick  persons,  it  is  better  to  add  other 
kinds  of  meat,  which  render  it  more 
nourishing  and  better  flavoured. 
Take  then  two  pounds  of  lean  beef, 
one  pound  of  scrag  of  veal,  one 
pound  of  scrag  of  mutton,  some  sweet 
herbs,  and  ten  pepper  corns,  and 
put  the  whole  into  a  nice  tin  sauce- 
pan, with  five  quarts  of  water. 
Simmer  it  to  three  quarts,  clear  it 
from  the  fat  when  cold,  and  add  an 
onion  if  approved.  If  there  be  still 
any  fat  remaining,  lay  a  piece  of 
clean  blotting  or  writing  paper  on 
the  broth  when  in  the  bason,  and  it 
will  take  up  every  particle  of  the  fat. 

BEEF  CAKES,  chiefly  intended 
for  a  side-dish  of  dressed  meat. 
Pound  some  beef  that  is  under  done, 
with  a  little  fat  bacon  or  ham.  Sea- 
son with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  shalot 
or  garlick ;  mix  them  well,  and  make 
the  whole  into  small  cakes  three 
inches  long,  and  half  as  wide  and 
thick.  Fry  them  to  a  light  brown, 
and  serve  them  in  good  thick 
gravy. 

BEEF  CECILS.  Mince  some  beef 

with  crumbs  of  bread,  a  quantity  of 

onions,  some  anchovies,  lemon  peel, 

salt,  nutmeg,  chopped  parsley,  pep- 

22 


per,  and  a  bit  of  warmed  butter. 
Mix  these  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes : 
when  cool  enough,  make  them  into 
balls  of  the  size  and  shape  of  a  tur- 
key's egg,  with  an  egg.  Sprinkle 
them  with  fine  crumbs,  fry  them  of 
a  yellow  brown,  and  serve  with 
gravy,  as  for  Beef  Olives. 

BEEF  COLLOPS.  Cutthm  slices 
of  beef  from  the  rump,  or  any  other 
tender  part,  and  divide  them  into 
pieces  three  inches  long  :  beat  them 
with  the  blade  of  a  knife,  and  flour 
them.  Fry  the  collops  quick  in  but- 
ter two  minutes  ;  then  lay  them  into 
a  small  stewpan,  and  cover  theni^ 
with  a  pint  of  gravy.  Add  a  bit  of 
butter  rubbed  in  flour,  pepper  and 
salt,  a  little  bit  of  shalot  shred  very 
fine,  with  half  a  walnut,  four  small 
pickled  cucumbers,  and  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  capers  cut  small.  Be  careful 
that  the  stew  does  not  boil,  and 
serve  in  a  hot  covered  dish. 

BEEF  FRICASSEE.  Cut  some 
thin  slices  of  cold  roast  beef,  shred 
a  handful  of  parsley  very  small,  cut 
an  onion  into  quarters,  and  put  tliem 
all  together  into  a  stewpan,  with  a 
piece  of  butter,  and  some  strong 
broth.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  simmer  very  gently  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.  Mix  into  it  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  a  glass  of  port  win^^ 
and  a  spoonful  of  vinegar:  stir  it 
quick,  rub  the  dish  with  shalot,  and 
turn  the  fricassee  into  it. 

BEEF  GRAVY.  Cover  the  bot- 
tom of  a  stewpan,  clean  and  well- 
tinned,  with  a  slice  of  good  ham  or 
lean  bacon,  four  or  five  pounds  of 
gravy  beef  cut  in  pieces,  an  onion, 
a  carrot,  two  cloves,  and  a  head  of 
celery.  Add  a  pint  of  broth  or  wa- 
ter, cover  it  close,  and  simmer  it  till 
the  liquor  is  nearly  all  exhausted. 
Turn  it  about,  and  let  it  brown  slight- 
ly and  equally  all  over,  but  do  not 
suffer  it  to  burn  or  stick  to  the  pan, 
for  that  would  spoil  the  gravy.  Then 
put  in  three  quarts  of  boiling  water ; 
and  when  it  boils  up,  skim  it  care- 
fully, and  wipe  off  with  a  clean  cloth 


BEE 


BEE 


what  sticks  round  the  ei\ge  and  in- 
side of  the  stewpan,  that  the  gravy 
may  be  delicately  clean  and  clear. 
Let  it  stew  gently  by  the  side  of  the 
fire  for  about  four  hours,  till  reduced 
to  two  quarts  of  good  gravy.  Take 
care  to  skim  it  well,  strain  it  through 
silk  or  muslin,  and  set  it  in  a  cold 
place. 

BEEF  HAMS.  Cut  the  leg  of 
beef  like  a  ham ;  and  for  fourteen 
pounds  weight,  mix  a  pound  of  salt, 
a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  an  ounce 
of  saltpetre,  and  an  ounce  of  bay 
^It.  Put  it  into  the  meat,  turn  and 
ioaste  it  every  day,  and  let  it  lie  a 
month  in  the  pickle.  Then  take  it 
out,  roll  it  in  bran,  and  smoke  it. 
Afterwards  hang  it  in  a  dry  place, 
and  cut  off  pieces  to  boil^u*  broil 
it  with  poached  eggs.  ^ 

BEEF  HASH.  Cut  some  thin 
slices  of  beef  that  is  underdone,  with 
some  of  the  fat  ;  put  it  into  a  small 
stewpan,  with  a  little  onion  or  sha- 
lot,  a  little  water,  pepper  and  salt. 
Add  some  of  the  gravy,  a  spoonful 
of  vinegar,  and  of  walnut  ketchup  : 
if  shalot  vinegar  be  used,  there  will 
be  no  need  of  the  onion  nor  the  raw 
shalot.  The  hash  is  only  to  be  sim- 
mered till  it  is  hot  through,  but  not 
boiled  :  it  is  owing  to  the  boiling  of 
hashes  and  stews  that  they  get  hard. 
When  the  hash  is  well  warmed  up, 
pour  it  upon  sippets  of  bread  pre- 
viously prepared,  and  laid  in  a  warm 
dish. 

BEEF  HEART.  Wash  it  care- 
fully, stuff  it  as  a  hare,  and  serve 
with  rich  gravy  and  currant-jelly 
sauce.  Hash  it  with  the  same,  and 
add  a  little  port  wine. 

BEEF  OLIVES.  Take  some  cold 
beef  that  has  not  been  done  enough, 
and  cut  slices  half  an  inch  thick, 
and  four  inches  square.  Lay  on 
them  a  forcemeat  of  crumbs  of  bread, 
shalot,  a  little  suet  or  fat,  pepper 
and  salt.  Roll  and  fasten  them  with 
a  small  skewer,  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan with  some  gravy  ^ade  of  the 
beef  bones,  or  the  gravy  of  the  meat, 


and  a  spoonful  or  two  of  water,  and 
stew  them  till  tender.  Beef  olives 
may  also  be  made  of  fresh  meat. 

BEEF  PALATES.  Smimerthem 
in  water  several  hours,  till  they  will 
peel.  Then  cut  the  palates  into 
slices,  or  leave  them  whole,  and  stew 
them  in  a  rich  gravy  till  they  become 
as  tender  as  possible.  Season  with 
cayenne,  salt  and  ketchup :  if  the 
gravy  was  drawn  clear,  add  also 
some  butter  and  flour.  If  the  pa- 
lates are  to  be  dressed  white,  boil 
them  in  milk,  and  stew  them  in  a 
fricasee  sauce ;  adding  cream,  but- 
ter, flour,  mushroom  powder,  and  a 
little  pounded  mace. 

BEEF  PASTY.  Bone  a  small 
rump  or  part  of  a  sirloin  of  beef, 
after  hanging  several  days.  Beat  it 
well  with  a  rolling  pin ;  then  rub  ten 
pounds  of  meat  with  four  ounces  of 
sugar,  and  pour  over  it  a  glass  of 
port,  and  the  same  of  vinegar.  Let 
it  lie  five  days  and  nights  ;  wash 
and  wipe  the  meat  very  dry,  and 
season  it  high  with  pepper  and  salt, 
nutmeg  and  Jamaica  pepper.  Lay 
it  in  a  dish,  and  to  ten  pounds  add 
nearly  one  pound  of  butter,  spread- 
ing it  over  the  meat.  Put  a  crust 
round  the  edges,  and  cover  with  a 
thick  one,  or  it  will  be  overdone  be- 
fore the  meat  is  soaked  :  it  must  be 
baked  in  a  slow  oven.  Set  the  bones 
in  a  pan  in  the  oven,  with  no  more 
water  than  will  cover  them,  and  one 
glass  of  port,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  in  order  to  provide  a  little  rich 
gravy  to  add  to  the  pasty  when 
drawn.  It  will  be  found  that  sugar 
gives  more  shortness  and  a  better 
flavour  to  meat  than  salt,  too  great 
a  quantity  of  which  hardens ;  and 
sugar  is  quite  as  good  a  preserva- 
tive. 

BEEF  PATTIES.  Shred  some 
dressed  beef  under  done,  with  a  little 
fat;  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  a  little  shalot  or  onion.  Make 
a  plain  paste,  roll  it  thin,  and  cut  it 
in  shape  like  an  apple  puff.  Fill  it 
with  mince,  pinch  the  edges,  and  fry 
23 


BEE 


BEE 


them  of  a  nice  brown.  The  paste 
should  be  made  with  a  small  quan- 
tity of  butter,  egg  and  milk. 

BEEF  PIE.  Season  some  cut- 
tings of  beef  with  pepper  and  salt, 
put  some  puff  paste  round  the  in- 
side of  the  dish,  and  lay  in  the  meat. 
Add  some  small  potatoes,  if  ap- 
proved, fill  up  the  dish  with  water, 
and  cover  it  with  the  paste. 

BEEF  PUDDING.  Roll  some 
fine  steaks  with  fat  between,  and  a 
very  little  shred  onion.  Lay  a  paste 
of  suet  in  a  bason,  put  in  the  rolled 
steaks,  cover  the  bason  with  a  paste, 
and  pinch  the  edges  to  keep  in  the 
gravy.  Cover  with  a  cloth  tied  close, 
and  let  the  pudding  boil  slowly  a 
considerable  time. — If  for  baking, 
make  a  batter  of  milk,  two  eggs  and 
flour,  or,  which  is  much  better,  pota- 
toes boiled,  and  mashed  through  a 
cullender.  Lay  a  little  of  it  at  the 
bottom  of  the  dish,  then  put  in  the 
steaks  prepared  as  above,  and  very 
well  seasoned.  Pour  the  remainder 
of  the  batter  over  them,  and  bake  it. 

BEEF  SANDERS.  Mince  some 
beef  small,  with  onion,  pepper  and 
salt,  and  add  a  little  gravy.  Put  it 
into  scallop  shells  or  saucers,  mak- 
ing them  three  parts  full,  and  fill 
them  up  with  potatoes,  mashed  with 
a  little  cream.  Put  a  bit  of  butter 
on  the  top,  and  brown  them  in  an 
oven,  or  before  the  fire,  or  with  a 
salamander.  Mutton  may  be  made 
into  Sanders  in  the  same  way. 

BEEF  SCALLOPS.  Mince  some 
beef  fine,  with  onion,  pepper  and 
salt,  and  add  a  little  gravy.  Put  the 
mince  into  scallop  shells  or  saucers 
three  parts  full,  and  fill  them  up 
with  potatoes,  mashed  with  a  little 
cream.  Lay  a  bit  of  butter  on  the 
tops,  and  brown  them  in  an  oven, 
or  before  the  fire. 

BEEF  STEAKS.  To  have  them 
fine,  they  should  be  cut  from  a  rump 
that  has  hung  a  few  days.  Broil 
them  over  a  very  clear  or  charcoal 
fire ;  put  into  the  dish  a  little  minced 
shalot,  a  table-spoonful  of  ketchup. 
24 


The  steak  should  be  turned  often, 
that  the  gravy  may  not  be  drawn 
out  on  either  side.  This  dish  re- 
quires to  be  eaten  so  hot  and  fresh 
done,  that  it  is  not  in  perfection  if 
served  with  any  thing  else.  Pepper 
and  salt  should  be  added  when  tak- 
ing it  off  the  fire,  and  a  bit  of  butter 
rubbed  on  at  the  moment  of  serving. 
If  accompanied  with  oyster  sauce, 
strain  off*  the  liquor  from  the  oysters, 
and  throw  them  into  cold  water  to 
take  off  the  grit,  while  you  simmer 
the  liquor  with  a  bit  of  mace  and 
lemon  peel.  Then  put  in  the  oysters, 
stew  them  a  few  minutes,  add  a  little 
cream,  and  some  butter  rubbed  in 
a  bit  of  flour.  Let  them  boil  up 
once,  and  throw  the  sauce  over  the 
steaks  at  the  moment  of  sending  the 
dish  tolpible, 

BEEF  STEW.  Cut  into  small 
pieces  four  or  five  pounds  of  beef, 
with  some  hard  fat.  Put  these  into 
a  stewpan,  with  three  pints  of  water, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper,  a  sprig  of 
sweet  herbs,  and  three  cloves.  Cover 
the  pan  very  close,  and  let  it  stew 
four  hours  over  a  slow  fire.  Throw 
in  some  carrots  and  turnips,  cut  intOj^i 
square  pieces  ;  the  white  part  of  a  ; 
leek,  with  two  heads  of  celery  chop- J 
ped  fine ;  a  crust  of  bread,  and  two 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  When  done, 
put  it  into  a  deep  dish,  set  it  over 
hot  water,  and  cover  it  close.  Skim 
the  gravy,  and  put  in  a  few  pickled 
mushrooms ;  thicken  it  with  flour 
and  butter,  make  it  hot,  and  pour  it 
over  the  beef. 

BEEF  TEA.  Cut  a  pound  of 
fleshy  beef  into  thin  slices  ;  simmer 
it  with  a  quart  of  water  twenty  mi- 
nutes, after  it  has  once  boiled,  and 
been  skimmed.  Season  it,  if  ap- 
proved ;  but  a  little  salt  only  is  suf-  ' 
ficient. 

BEEF  VINGRETTE.  Cut  a  slice 
of  under-done  boiled  beef  three  inch- 
es thick,  and  a  little  fat.  Stew  it  in 
half  a  pint  of  water,  a  glass  of  white 
wine,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  an 
onion,  andva  bay  leaf.     Season  it 


BEE 


B  K  K 


yith  three  cloves  pounded,  and  pep- 
per, till  the  liquor  is  nearly  wasted 
away,  turning  it  once.  Serve  it  up 
cold.  Strain  off  the  gravy,  and  mix 
it  with  a  little  vinegar  for  sauce. 

BEER.  During  the  present  ruin- 
ous system  of  taxation,  it  is  extreme- 
ly ditticult,  though  highly  desirable, 
to  procure  a  cheap  and  wholesome 
beverage,  especially  for  the  labour- 
ing part  of  the  community,  to  whom 
it  is  as  needful  as  their  daily  food. 
Beer  that  is  brewed  and  drunk  at 
home,  is  more  pure  and  nutricious 
than  what  is  generally  purchased  at 
an  alehouse  ;  an<l  those  who  cannot 
afford  a  better  ail  vie,  may  perhaps 
find  it  convenient  to  adopt  the  fol- 
lowing method  for  obtaining  some 
cheap  driuk  for  small  families. — To 
half  a  bushel  of  malt,  add  four 
pounds  of  treacle,  and  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  hops.  This  will 
make  twenty-five  gallons  of  whole- 
some beer,  which  will  be  fit  for  use 
in  a  fortnight ;  but  it  is  not  calcu- 
lated for  keeping,  especially  in  warm 
weather.  Beer  brewed  in  this  way 
will  not  cost  one  halfpenny  a  pint. 
An  agreeable  table  beer  may  be 
made  ready  for  drinking  in  three  or 
four  days,  consisting  of  treacle  and 
water,  fermented  with  a  little  yeast. 
Boil  six  or  seven  gallons  of  water, 
pour  it  on  the  same  quantity  of  cold 
water  in  a  cask,  and  a  gallon  of  trea- 
cle. Stir  them  well  together  ;  and 
when  the  fermentation  is  abated, 
close  the  bung-hole  in  the  usual  way. 
A  little  of  the  outer  rind  of  an  orange 
peel  infused  into  the  beer,  and  taken 
out  as  soon  as  it  has  imparted  a  suf- 
ficient degree  of  bitterness,  will  give 
it  an  agreeable  flavour,  and  assist 
in  keeping  the  beer  from  turning 
sour.  A  little  gentian  root  boiled 
in  the  water,  either  with  or  without 
the  orange  peel,  will  give  a  whole- 
some and  pleasant  bitter  to  this  beer. 
A  small  quantity,  by  way  of  experi- 
ment, may  be  made  thus.  To  eight 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  put  one 
ounce  of  treacle,  a  quarter  of  an 
(No.  2.:) 


ounce  of  ginger,  and  two  bay  leaves. 
Let  the  whole  boil  a  quarter  of  an 
hour ;  then  cool  and  work  it  with 
yeast,  the  same  as  other  beer.  Ano- 
ther way  to  make  a  cheap  malt 
liquor  is  to  take  a  bushel  of  malt, 
with  as  much  water  and  hops  as  if 
two  bushels  of  malt  were  allowed 
in  the  common  way,  and  put  seven 
pounds  of  the  coarsest  brown  sugar 
into  the  boiling  wort.  This  makes 
a  very  pleasant  liquor;  is  as  strong, 
and  will  keep  as  long  without  turn- 
ing sour  or  flat,  as  if  two  bushels 
had  been  employed.  Twenty  gal- 
lons of  good  beer  may  be  made  from 
a  bushel  of  malt,  and  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  hops,  if  care  be  taken 
to  extract  all  their  goodness.  For 
this  purpose  boil  twenty -four  gallons 
of  water,  and  steep  the  malt  in  it  for 
three  hours:  then  tie  up  the  hops 
in  a  hair  cloth,  and  boil  malt,  hops, 
and  wort,  all  together  for  three  quar- 
ters of  an  hour,  which  will  reduce  it 
to  about  twenty  gallons.  Strain  it 
off,  and  set  it  to  work  when  luke- 
warm. See  Brewing. — As  how- 
ever it  does  not  suit  some  persons  to 
brew,  in  any  way  whatever,  it  may 
be  necessary  to  add  a  few  brief  re- 
marks on  the  distinguishing  qualities 
of  sound  beer,  that  persons  may 
know  what  it  is  they  purchase,  and 
how  far  their  health  may  be  affected 
by  it.  Wholesome  beer  then  ought 
to  be  of  a  bright  colour,  and  per- 
fectly transparent,  neither  too  high 
nor  too  pale.  It  should  have  a  plea- 
sant and  mellow  taste,  sharp  and 
agreeably  bitter,  without  being  hard 
or  sour.  It  should  leave  no  pungent 
sensation  on  the  tongue ;  and  if 
drank  in  any  tolerable  quantity,  it 
must  neither  produce  speedy  intox- 
ication, nor  any  of  the  usual  effects 
of  sleep,  nausea,  headache,  or  lan- 
guor ;  nor  should  it  be  retained  too 
long  after  drinking  it,  or  Jye  too 
quickly  discharged.  If  beer  pur- 
chased at  the  alehouse  be  suspected 
of  having  been  adulterated  with  the 
infusion  of  \Htriol,  for  the  purpose  of 
25 


BEE 


BEE 


adding  to  its  strength,  it  may  be  de- 
tected by  putting  in  a  few  nut  galls, 
which  will  immediately  turn  it  black, 
if  it  have  been  so  adulterated  ;  and 
the  beer  ought  by  all  means  to  be 
rejected,  as  highly  injurious  to  the 
constitution,  and  may  be  fatal  even 
to  life  itself. 

BEES.     A  hive  of  bees  may  be 
considered  as  a  populous  city,  con- 
taining thirty  thousand  inhabitants. 
This  community  is  in  itself  a  mo- 
narchy, composed  of  a  qveen,   of 
males  which  are  the  drones,  and  of 
working  bees  called  neuters.     The 
combs  being  composed  of  pure  wax, 
serve  as  a  magazine  for  their  stores, 
and  a  nursery  for  their  young.     Be- 
tween the  combs  there  is  a  space 
sufficient  for   two   bees    to    march 
abreast,  and  there  are  also  trans- 
verse defiles  bv  which  they  can  more 
t^asily  pass  from  one  comb  to  ano- 
ther.— The  queen  bee  is  distinguish- 
able from  the  rest  by  the  form  of 
her  body.     She  is  much  longer,  un- 
wieldy, and   of  a  brighter  colour, 
and  seldom  leaves  the  jmrent  hive ; 
but  when  she  goes  to  settle  a  new 
colony,  all  the  bees  attend  her  to  the 
place  of  destination.  A  hive  of  bees 
cannot  subsist  without  a  queen,  as 
she  produces  their  numerous  pro- 
geny ;  and  hence  their  attachment 
to  her  is  unalterable.  When  a  queen 
dies,    the   bees   immediately    cease 
working,  consume  their  honey,  fly 
about  at  unusual  times,  and  eventu- 
ally pine  away,  if  not  supplied  with 
another   sovereign.     The   death   of 
the  queen  is  proclaimed  by  a  clear 
and  uninterrupted  humming,  which 
should  be  a  warning  to  the  owner  to 
provide  the  bees  if  possible  with 
another  queen,  whose  presence  will 
restore  vigour  and  exertion  ;  of  such 
importance  is  a  sovereig?i  to  the  ex- 
istence and  prosperity  of  this  coau- 
munity.  It  is  computed  that  a  preg- 
nant queen  bee  contains  about  five 
thousand  eggs,  and  that  she  pro- 
duces from  ten  to  twelve  thousand 
bees  in  the  space  of  two  months. — 
26 


Drones  are  smaller  than  the  queen, 
but  larger  than  the  working  bees, 
and  when  on  the  wing  they  make  a 
greater  noise.  Their  ofiice  is  to  im- 
pregnate the  eggs  of  the  queen  after 
they  are  deposited  in  the  cells  ;  but 
when  this  is  effected,  as  they  become  - 
useless  to  the  hive,  they  are  destroy- 
ed by  the  working  bees  and  thrown 
out ;  and  having  no  sting,  they  are 
without  the  power  of  resistance. 
After  the  season  of  the  encrease  of 
the  bees  is  past,  and  when  they  at- 
tend to  the  collection  of  winter  stores, 
every  vestige  of  the  drones  is  de- 
stroyed to  make  room  for  the  honey. 
When  drones  are  observed  in  a  hive 
late  in  autumn,  it  is  usually  a  sign 
that  the  stock  is  poor. — Working 
bees  compose  the  most  numerous 
body  of  the  state.  They  have  the 
care  of  the  hive,  collect  the  wax  an  d 
honey,  fabricate  the  wax  into  combs, 
feed  the  young,  keep  the  hive  clean, 
expel  all  strangers,  and  employ 
themselves  in  promoting  the  general 
prosperity.  The  working  bee  has 
two  sfeomachs,  one  to  contain  the 
honey,  and  another  for  the  crude 
wax.  Among  the  different  kinds  of 
working  bees,  those  are  to  be  pre- 
ferred which  are  small,  smooth,  and 
shining,  and  of  a  gentle  disposition. 
— Considering  the  rich  productions 
of  these  little  insects,  and  the  valu- 
able purposes  to  which  they  may  be 
applied,  it  is  truly  astonishing  that 
so  important  an  object  in  rural  eco- 
nomy has  been  so  little  attended  to 
by  the  inhabitants  of  this  country. 
In  Egypt,  the  cultivation  of  bees 
forms  a  leading  object,  and  their  pro- 
ductions constitute  a  part  of  its  J| 
'riches.  About  the  end  of  October, 
when  sustenance  cannot  be  provided 
for  them  at  home,  the  inhabitants  of 
Lower  Egypt  embark  their  bees  on 
the  Nile,  and  convey  them  to  the  dis- 
tant regions  of  Upper  Egypt,  when 
the  inundation  is  withdrawn,  and  the 
flowers  are  beginning  to  bud.  These 
insects  are  thus  conflucted  through 
the  whole  extent  of  that  fertile  coun- 


BEE 


BEE 


try ;  and  after  havinaj  gathered  all 
the  rich  produce  of  the  banks  of 
the  Nile,  are  re-conducted  home 
about  the  beginning  of  February. 
In  France  also,  floating  bee-hives  are 
very  common.  One  barge  contains 
from  sixty  to  a  hundred  hives,  which 
are  well  defended  from  the  incle- 
mency of  the  weather.  Thus  the 
owners  float  them  gently  down  the 
stream,  while  they  gather  the  honey 
from  the  flowers  along  its  banks, 
and  a  little  bee-house  yields  the  pro- 
prietors a  considerable  income.  At 
other  times  they  convey  bees  by 
land,  to  places  where  honey  and 
wax  may  be  collected.  The  hives 
are  fastened  to  each  other  by  laths 
placed  on  a  thin  packcloth,  which 
is  drawn  up  on  each  side  and  tied 
with  packthread  several  times  round 
their  tops.  Forty  or  lifty  hives  are 
then  laid  in  a  cart,  and  the  owner 
takes  them  to  distant  places  where 
the  bees  may  feed  and  work.  But 
without  this  labour  the  industrious 
bee  might  be  cultivated  to  great  ad- 
vantage, and  thousands  of  pounds 
weight  of  wax  and  honey  collected, 
which  now  are  suffered  to  be  wasted 
on  the  desert  air,  or  perish  unheeded 
amidst  the  floAvers  of  the  held. — 
Those  whose  attention  may  be  di- 
rected to  the  subject  by  these  re- 
marks, and  who  intend  to  erect  an 
apiary,  should  purchase  the  stocks 
towards  the  close  of  the  year,  when 
bees  are  cheapest;  and  such  only 
as  are  full  of  combs,  and  well  fur- 
nished with  bees.  To  ascertain  the 
age  of  the  hives  it  should  be  remark- 
ed, that  the  combs  of  the  last  year 
are  white,  w  hile  those  of  the  former 
year  acquire  a  darkish  yellow. 
Where  the  combs  are  black,  the  hive 
should  be  rejected  as  too  old,  and 
liable  to  the  inroads  of  vermin.  In 
order  to  obtain  the  greatest  possible 
advantage  from  the  cultivation  of 
bees,  it  is  necessary  to  supply  them 
with  every  convenience  for  the  sup- 
port of  themselves  and  their  young. 
And  though  it  may  be   too  much 


trouble  to  transport  them  to  distauit 
places,  in  order  to  provide  them  with 
the  richest  food,  and  to  increase 
their  abundant  stores  ;  yet  in  some 
instances  this  plan  might  in  part  be 
adopted  with  considerable  success. 
It  has  been  seen  in  Germany,  as 
well  as  in  other  parts  of  the  conti- 
nent, that  forty  large  bee  hives  have 
been  tilled  with  honey,  to  the  amount 
of  seventy  pounds  each,  in  one  fort- 
night, by  their  being  placed  near  a 
large  field  of  buck  wheat  in  flower; 
and  as  this  and  various  other  plants 
adapted  to  enrich  the  hive  are  to  be 
found  in  many  parts  of  England, 
there  is  no  reason  why  a  similar  ad- 
vantage might  not  be  derived  from 
such  an  experiment. — Besides  pro-  , 
viding  for  them  the  richest  food  in 
summer,  in  order  to  facilitate  their 
labours,  it  is  equally  necessary  to 
attend  to  their  preservation  in  the 
winter.  To  guard  against  the  eflfects 
of  cold,  the  bees  should  be  examined 
during  the  winter  ;  and  if  instead  of  t^ 
being  clustered  between  the  combsj*  • 
they  are  found  in  numbers  at  the  bot- 
tom of  the  hive,  they  should  be  car- 
ried to  a  warmer  place,  where  they 
will  soon  recover.  In  very  severe 
seasons,  lay  on  the  bottom  of  an  old 
cask  the  depth  of  half  a  foot  of  fine 
earth  pressed  down  hard ;  place  the 
stool  on  this  with  the  hive,  and  cut 
a  hole  in  the  cask  opposite  to  the 
entrance  of  the  hive,  in  which  fix  a 
piece  of  reed  or  hollow  elder,  and  ^ 
then  cover  the  whole  with  dry  earth. 
This  will  preserve  a  communication 
with  the  external  air,  and  at  the  same 
time  keep  out  the  cold.  The  bees 
remaining  in  a  torpid  state  during 
the  winter,  they  require  but  little  ^ 
food  ;  but  as  every  sunny  day  revives  ^ 
and  prompts  them  to  exercise,  a 
small  supply  is  necessary  on  these 
occasions.  Many  hives  of  bees 
which  are  supposed  to  have  died  of 
cold,  have  in  reality  perished  by 
famine,  especially  when  a  rainy  sum- 
mer prevented  them  from  collecting  * 
a  sufficient  store  of  provision.  Hence 

a7 


B-EE 


BEE 


the  hives  should  be  carefully  ex- 
amined in  autumn,  and  ought  then 
to  weigh  at  least  eighteen  pounds 
each.  When  bees  require  to  be  fed, 
the  honey  should  be  diluted  with 
water,  and  put  into  an  empty  comb, 
split  reeds,  or  upon  clear  wood, 
which  the  bees  will  suck  perfectly 
dry.  But  it  is  a  much  better  way 
to  replenish  the  weak  hives  in  Sep- 
tember, with  such  a  portion  of  combs 
filled  with  honey  taken  from  other 
hives  as  may  be  deemed  a  sufficient 
supply.  This  is  done  by  turning  up 
the  weak  hive,  cutting  out  the  empty 
combs,  and  placing  full  ones  in  their 
stead,  so  secure  as  not  to  fall  down 
when  the  hive  is  replaced.  If  this 
be  too  troublesome,  a  plate  of  honey 
may  be  set  under  the  hive,  and  straws 
laid  across  the  plate,  covered  with 
paper  perforated  with  small  holes, 
through  which  the  bees  will  suck 
the  honey  without  difficulty. — These 
valuable  insects  are  liable  to  various 
disorders,  both  from  the  food  they 
eat,  from  foreign  enemies,  and  from 
one  another.  If  they  have  fed  gree- 
dily on  the  blossoms  of  the  milk  this- 
tle or  the  elm,  it  will  render  them  in- 
capable of  working,  and  the  hive  will 
be  stained  with  filth.  The  best  cure 
in  this  case  is  pounded  pomegranate 
seed,  moistened  with  sweet  wine  ; 
or  raisins  mixed  with  wine  or  mead, 
and  the  infusion  of  rosemary.  When 
they  are  infested  with  vermin,  the 
hive  must  be  cleansed,  and  perfumed 
with  a  branch  of  pomegranate  or  the 
wild  fig-tree,  which  will  effectually 
destroy  them.  Butterflies  some- 
times conceal  themselves  in  the 
hives,  and  annoy  the  bees ;  but  these 
intruders  may  easily  be  exterminated 
by  placing  lighted  candles  in  deep 
tin  pots  between  the  hives,  as  they 
will  be  attracted  by  the  flame,  and 
so  perish.  In  order  to  extirpate 
wasps  and  hornets  preying  upon  the 
honey,  it  is  only  necessary  to  expose 
shallow  vessels  near  the  hive  with 
a  little  water,  to  which  those  depre- 
dators eagerlv  repair  to  quench  their 
IS      ^ 


thirst,  and  thus  easily  drown  theirf- 
selves.  To  prevent  bees  of  one  so- 
ciety from  attacking  or  destroying 
those  of  another,  which  is  frequent- 
ly the  case,  the  following  method 
may  be  tried.  Let  a  board  about 
an  inch  thick  be  laid  on  the  bee 
bench,  and  set  the  hive  upon  it  with 
its  mouth  exactly  on  the  edge.  The 
mouth  of  the  hive  should  also  be 
contracted  to  about  an  inch  in  length, 
and  a  semicircular  hole  made  in  the 
board  immediately  under  the  mouth 
of  the  hive.  By  this  simple  method, 
the  bees  which  come  to  make  the 
attack  will  be  foiled,  and  constrain- 
ed to  act  with  great  disadvantage. 
If  this  do  not  succeed^  remove  the 
hive  to  a  distant  part  of  the  garden, 
and  to  a  more  easterly  or  colder  as- 
pect, which  will  frequently  end  the 
contest. — When  bees  are  to  be  taken 
up  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  the 
wax  and  honey,  great  care  should 
be  taken  not  to  destroy  the  insects ; 
and  for  this  end  the  following  me- 
thod is  recommended.  The  upper 
box  on  the  hive,  which  principally 
contains  the  honey,  is  first  to  be 
taken  off.  The  joint  should  be 
loosened,  the  cement  scraped  off, 
and  then  a  piece  of  iron  wire  to  be 
drawn  through  the  comb  so  as  to 
divide  it.  When  the  upper  box  is 
thus  separated,  its  cover  is  to  be 
taken  off  and  immediately  placed  on 
the  second  box,  which  is  now  the 
highest.  Having  ta-ken  out  the  con- 
tents of  the  box  which  has  been  se- 
parated, it  is  to  be  placed  again  on 
the  stand,  under  the  lower  box,  and 
its  door  only  is  to  be  left  open.  If 
any  bees  remain  in  the  box  when 
taken  away,  a  little  smoke  will  drive 
them  out,  and  they  will  quickly  re- 
turn to  their  own  hive.  In  this  man- 
ner a  second  or  a  third  box  of  honey 
may  be  removed  in  succession,  when 
the  lower  part  of  the  hive  appears 
to  be  full ;  but  care  must  be  taken 
not  to  deprive  the  bees  entirely  of 
the  stock  which  they  have  collected 
for  the  winter.     In  taking  up  a  com- 


BEE 


BIL 


mon  straw  hive  of  bees,  the  best  way 
is  to  remove  it  into  a  darkened  room, 
that  it  may  appear  to  the  bees  as  if 
it  were  late  in  the  evening.  Then 
gently  turning  the  hive  bottom  up- 
wards, and  supporting  it  in  that  po- 
sition, cover  it  with  an  empty  hive 
a  little  raised  towards  the  window, 
to  give  the  bees  sufficient  light  to 
guide  their  ascent.  Keep  the  empty 
hive  steadily  supported  on  the  edge 
of  the  full  hive,  and  strike  the  hand 
round  the  full  hive  to  frighten  the 
bees,  till  they  have  nearly  all  ascend- 
ed into  the  other.  The  new  hive 
containing  the  bees  must  be  placed 
on  the  stand  of  the  apiary,  to  receive 
the  absent  bees  as  they  return  from 
the  fields. 

BEET  ROOT.  This  cooling  and 
wholesome  vegetable  is  good  boiled, 
and  sliced  with  a  small  quantity  of 
onion,  or  stewed  with  whole  onions 
in  the  following  manner.  Boil  the 
beet  tender  with  the  skin  on,  slice  it 
into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  broth  and 
a  spoonful  of  vinegar.  Simmer  it 
till  the  gravy  is  tinged  with  the  co- 
lour ;  then  put  it  into  a  small  dish, 
and  make  a  round  of  button  onions, 
first  boiled  tender.  Take  off  the  kin 
just  before  serving,  and  let  them  be 
quite  hot  and  clear.  Or  roast  three 
large  onions,  and  peel  off  the  outer 
skins  till  they  look  clear ;  and  serve 
round  them  the  stewed  beet  root. 
The  root  must  not  be  broken  before 
it  is  dressed,  or  it  will  lose  its  co- 
lour, and  look  ill. — To  preserve  beet- 
root for  winter  use,  they  should  not 
be  cleared  from  the  earth,  but  kept 
in  layers  of  dry  sand. 

BEETLES. '  When  these  insects 
become  troublesome  in  the  house, 
put  some  small  lumps  of  quick  lime 
into  the  chinks  or  holes  of  the  wall 
from  whence  they  issue,  or  scatter  it 
on  the  ground.  Or  at  night,  lay  a 
spoonful  of  treacle  on  a  piece  of 
wood,  and  float  it  in  a  pan  of  water : 
beetles  are  so  fond  of  syrup,  that 
they  will  be  drowned  in  attempting 
to  get  at  it.     The  common  black 


beetle  may  also  be  extirpated  b^ 
placing  a  hedgehog  in  the  room,  du- 
ring the  summer  nights  ;  or  by  laying 
a  bundle  of  pea  straw  near  their 
holes,  and  afterwards  burning  it 
when  the  beetles  have  crept  into  it. 

BENTON  CAKES.  Mix  a  paste 
of  flour,  a  little  bit  of  butter,  and 
milk.  Roll  it  as  thin  as  possible, 
and  bake  on  a  backstone  over  the 
lire,  or  on  a  hot  hearth.  Another 
sort  of  Benton  tea-cakes  are  made 
like  biscuits,  by  rubbing  into  a  pound 
of  flour  six  ounces  of  butter,  and 
three  large  spoonfuls  of  yeast.  Work 
up  the  paste  with  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  new  milk,  make  it  into  bis- 
cuits, and  prick  them  with  a  clean 
fork.  Or  melt  six  or  seven  (Minces 
of  butter,  with  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  new  milk  warmed  to  make  seven 
pounds  of  flour  into  a  stiff*  paste. 
Roll  it  thin,  and  make  it  into  bis- 
cuits. 

BENTON  SAUCE.  Grate  some 
horse-radish,  or  scrape  it  very  flne. 
Add  to  it  a  little  made  mustard,  some 
pounded  white  sugar,  and  four  large 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Serve  it  up 
in  a  saucer :  this  is  good  with  hot 
or  cold  roast  beef. 

BILLS  OF  FARE,  or  list  of  va- 
rious articles  in  season  in  different 
months. 

January. Poultry.     Game, 

pheasants,  partridges,  hares,  rab- 
bits, woodcocks,  snipes,  turkeys, 
capons,  pullets,  fowls,  chickens, 
tame  pigeons. — Fish.  Carp,  tench, 
perch,  eels,  lampreys,  crayfish,  cod, 
soles,  flounders,  plaice,  turbot,  skate, 
thornback,  sturgeon,  smelts,  whit- 
ings, crabs,  lobsters,  prawns,  oys- 
ters.—  Vegetables.  Cabbage,  savoys, 
coleworts,  sprouts,  brocoli,  leeks, 
onions,  beet,  sorrel,  chervil,  endive, 
spinach,  celery,  garlic,  potatoes, 
parsnips,  turnips,  shalots,  lettuces, 
cresses,  mustard,  rape,  salsafy,  herbs 
dry  and  green. — Fruit.  Apples, 
pears,nuts, walnuts,  medlars,  grapes. 

February,    March.. Meat, 

fowls  and  game,  as  in  January,  with 
29 


BIL 


Bin 


the  addition  of  ducklings  and  chick- 
ens.—  Fish.  As  the  last  two  months, 
except  that  cod  is  not  thought  so 
good,  from  February  to  July. —  F^ 
getahles.  The  same  as  the  former 
mouths,  with  the  addition  of  kidney 
bean^. — Frvii,  Apples,  pears,  for- 
ced .strawberries. 

April,   May,    June. Meat. 

Beef,  mutton,  veal,  lamb,  venison  in 

June. Poultry.     Pullets,  fowls, 

chickens,  ducklings,  pigeons,  rab- 
bits, leverets. — Fish.  Carp,  tench, 
soles,  smelts,  eels,  trout,  turbot,  lob- 
sters, chub,  salmon,  herrings,  cray- 
fish, mackarel,  crabs,  prawns, 
shiimps.— Vegetables.  As  before, 
and  in  May,  early  potatoes,  peas, 
radishes,  kidney  beans,  carrots,  tur- 
nips, early  cabbages,  cauliflowers, 
asparagus,  artichokes,  all  sorts  of 
forced  sallads. — Frvit.  In  June, 
strawberries,  cherries,  melons,  green 
apricots,  gooseberries  and  currants 
for  tarts.  In  July,  cherries,  straw- 
berries, pears,  melons,  gooseberries, 
currants,  apricots,  grapes,  necta- 
rines, peaches ;  but  most  of  these 
are  forced. 

July,  August,  September. — 
Meat  as  before. — Poultry.  Pullets, 
fowls,  chickens,  rabbits,  pigeons, 
green  geese,  leverets,  turkey  poults, 
plovers,  wheatears,  and  geese  in 
September.— Fish.  Cod,  haddock, 
flounders,  plaice,  skate,  thornback, 
mullets,  pike,  carp,  eels,  shellfish, 
except  oysters  ;  mackarel  the  first 
two  months,  but  are  not  good  in 
August. —  Vegetables.  Beans,  peas, 
French  beans,  and  various  others. — ■ 
Fruit.  In  July,  strawberries,  goose- 
berries, pineapples,  plums,  cherries, 
apricots,  raspberries,  melons,  cur- 
rants, damsons.  In  August  and 
September,  peaches,  plums,  filberts, 
figs,  mulberries,  cherries,  apples, 
peiyrs,  nectarines,  grapes,  pines,  me- 
lon's, strawberries,  medlars,  quinces, 
morella  cherries,  damsons,  and  va- 
rious plums. 

October. — Meat  as  before,  and 

doe- venison. Poultry.       Game, 

30 


pheasants,  fowls,  partridges,  larks, 
hares,  dotterels,  wild  ducks,  teal, 
snipes,  widgeon,  grouse. — Fish.  Do- 
iies.  ^melts,  pike,  perch,  hoi  bets, 
b.ills,  carp,  salmon  trout,  barbel, 
gudgeons,  tench,  shelltish. —  Vege- 
tables. ^As  in  January,  French  beans, 

runners,  Windsor  beans. Fruit. 

Peaches,  pears,  figs,  buUace,  grapes, 
apples,  medlars,  damsons,  filberts, 
nuts,  walnuts,  quinces,  services. 

November.— Y>/ea/.  Beef,  mut- 
ton, veal,  pork,  house  lamb,  doe  ve- 
nison, poultry  and  game.  Fish  as 
the  last  month. —  Vegetables.  Car- 
rots, turnips,  parsnips,  potatoes, 
skirrets,  onions,  leeks,  shalots,  cab- 
bage, savoys,  colewort,  spinach,  car- 
doons,  cresses,  endive,  celery,  lettu- 
ces, salad,  herbs. — Fruit.  Pears, 
apples,  nuts,  walnuts,  bullace,  ches- 
nuts,  medlars,  grapes. 

December. — Meat.  Beef,  mut- 
ton, veal,  house  lamb,  pork  and  ve- 
nison.— Poultry.  Game,  turkeys, 
geese,  pullets,  pigeons,  capons, 
fowls,  chickens,  rabbits,  hares, 
snipes,  woodcocks,  larks,  pheasants, 
partridges,  sea-fowls,  guinea-fowls, 
wild  ducks,  teal,  widgeon,  dotterels, 
dunbirds,  grouse. — Fish.  Turbot, 
cod,  bolibets,  soles,  gurnets,  stur- 
geon, carp,  gudgeons,  codlings,  eels, 
dorieg,  shellfish. —  Vegetables.  As 
in  the  last  month ;  asparagus  forced. 
— Fruit.  As  the  last,  except  bul- 
lace. 

BIRCH  WINE.  The  season  for 
obtaining  the  liquor  from  birch  trees, 
is  in  the  latter  end  of  February  or 
the  beginning  of  March,  before  the 
leaves  shoot  out,  and  as  the  sap  be- 
gins to  rise.  If  the  time  be  delayed, 
the  juice  will  grow  too  thick  to  be 
drawn  out.  It  should  be  as  thin  ^nd 
clear  as  possible.  The  method  of 
procuring  the  juice  is  by  boring  holes 
in  the  trunk  of  the  tree,  and  fixing 
in  facets  made  of  elder ;  but  care 
should  be  taken  not  to  tap  it  in  too 
many  places  at  once,  for  fear  of  in- 
juring the  tree.  If  the  tree  is  large, 
it  may  be  bored  in  five  or  six  places 


BIS 


BLA 


lit  once,  and  bottles  are  to  be  placed 
under  the  apertures  to  receive  the 
sap.  When  tour  or  five  gallons  have 
been  extracted  from  diHerent  trees, 
cork  the  bottles  very  close,  and  wax 
them  till  the  wine  is  to  be  made, 
which  should  be  as  soon  as  possible 
after  the  sap  has  been  obtained. 
Boil  the  sap,  and  put  four  pounds  of 
loaf  sugar  to  every  gallon,  also  the 
rind  of  a  lemon  cut  thin  ;  then  boil 
it  again  for  nearly  an  hour,  skimming 
it  well  all  the  time.  Into  a  cask  that 
will  contain  it,  put  a  lighted  brim- 
stone match,  stop  it  up  till  the  match 
is  burnt  out,  and  then  pour  the  li- 
quor into  it  as  quickly  as  possible. 
When  nearly  cold,  work  it  with  a 
toast  spread  with  yeast,  and  let  it 
stand  five  or  six  days,  stirring  it  two 
or  three  times  a-day.  Put  the  bung 
lightly  in  till  it  has  done  working ; 
then  close  it  down,  and  let  it  stand 
two  or  three  months.  The  wine  may 
then  be  bottled,  and  will  be  tit  for 
use  in  about  a  week.  It  makes  a 
rich  and  salutary  cordial,  and  its 
virtues  are  much  relied  on  in  con- 
sumptive and  scorbutic  cases. 

BISCUIT  CAKE.  One  pound  of 
flour,  five  eggs  well  beaten  and 
strained,  eight  ounces  of  sugar,  a 
little  rose  or  orange  flower  water. 
Beat  the  whole  thori^ughly,  and  bake 
it  one  hour. 

BISCUITS.  To  make  hard  bis- 
cuits,  warm  two  ounces  of  butter  in 
as  much  skimmed  milk  as  will  make 
a  pound  of  flour  into  a  very  stift' 
paste.  Beat  it  with  a  rolling  pin, 
and  work  it  very  smooth.  Roll  it 
thin,  and  cut  it  into  round  biscuits. 
Prick  them  full  of  holes  with  a  fork, 
and  about  six  minutes  will  bake 
them. — For  plain  and  very  crisp  bis- 
cuits, make  a  pound  of  flour,  the 
yolk  of  an  f^gg,  and  some  milk,  into 
a  very  stift"  paste.  Beat  it  well,  and 
knead  it  quite  smooth  ;  roll  the  paste 
very  thin,  and  cut  it  into  biscuits. 
Bake  theni  in  a  slow  oven  till  quite 
dry  and  crisp. — To  preserve  biscuits 
for  a  long  time  sweet  and  good,  no 


other  art  is  necessary  than  packing 
them  up  in  casks  well  caulked,  and 
carefully  lined  with  tin,  so  as  to  ex- 
clude the  air.  The  biscuits  should 
be  laid  as  close  as  possible  ;  and 
when  it  is  necessary  to  open  the  cask^ 
it  must  be  speedily  closed  again  with 
care.  Sea  bread  may  also  be  pre- 
served on  a  long  voyage,  by  being 
put  into  a  bag  which  has  been  pre- 
viously soaked  in  a  quantity  of  liquid 
nitre,  and  dried.  This  has  been 
found  to  preserve  the  biscuits  from 
the  fatal  eflects  of  the  wevil,  and 
other  injurious  insects,  which  are 
destructive  to  this  necessary  article 
of  human  sustenance. 

BITTERS.  Bruise  an  ounce  of 
gentian  root,  and  two  drams  of  car- 
damom seeds  together :  add  an 
ounce  of  lemon  peel,  and  three  drams 
of  Seville  orange  peel.  Pour  on  the 
ingredients  a  pint  and  half  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour 
closely  coyered  :  then  pour  oft'  the 
clear  liquor,  and  a  glass  of  it  taken 
two  or  three  times  a  day  will  be 
found  an  excellent  bitter  for  the  sto- 
mach.— Or  slice  an  ounce  of  gentian 
root,  and  add  half  a  dram  of  snakes* 
root  bruised,  half  a  dram  of  saftVon, 
three  quarters  of  a  dram  of  carda- 
mom seeds,  and  the  same  of  cochi- 
neal bruised  together,  and  the  peel 
of  three  Seville  oranges.  Sleep  the 
ingredients  in  a  pint  of  brandy  four- 
teen days,  shaking  them  together 
frequently  ;  then  strain  the  tincture 
through  apiece  of  muslin,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  in  a  glass  of  wine  may  be 
taken  two  or  three  times  a  dav. 

BLACK  BUTTER.  Boil  a  pound 
of  moist  sugar  with  three  pounds  of 
gooseberries,  currants,  raspberries, 
and  cherries,  till  reduced  to  half  the 
quantity.  Put  it  into  pots  covered 
with  brandy  paper,  and  it  will  be 
found  a  pleasant  sweetmeat. 

BLACK  CAPS.  Divide  and  core 
some  fine  large  apples,  put  them  in 
a  shallow  pan,  strew  white  sugar 
over,  and  bake  them.  Boil  a  glass 
of  wine,  the  same  of  water,  and 
31 


B  LA 


BLA 


srweeten  it  for  sauce.  Or,  take  off  a 
slice  from  the  stalk  end  of  some  ap- 
ples, and  core  without  paring  them. 
Mix  with  grated  lemon,  and  a  few 
cloves  in  fine  powder,  as  much  sugar 
as  will  sweeten  them.  Stuff  the  holes 
as  close  as  possible  with  this,  and 
turn  the  flat  end  down  on  a  stewpan ; 
set  them  on  a  very  slow  fire,  with 
some  raisin  wine  and  water.  Cover 
them  close,  and  now  and  then  baste 
them  with  the  liquor:  when  done 
enough,  black  the  tops  with  a  sala- 
mander. 

B1.ACK  INK.  Infuse  in  a  gallon 
of  rain  or  soft  water,  a  pound  of  blue 
galls  bruised,  and  keep  it  stirring  for 
three  weeks.  Then  add  four  ounces 
of  green  copperas,  four  ounces  of 
logwood  chips,  six  ounces  of  gum 
arabac,  and  a  glass  of  brandy. — To 
make  ink  of  a  superior  quality,  and 
fit  for  immediate  use,  prepare  the 
following  ingredients.  Four  ounces 
of  blue  galls,  two  ounces  of  chipped 
logwo  d,  two  of  sulphate  of  iron, 
one  ounce  and  a  half  of  gum  arabac, 
half  an  ounce  of  sulphate  of  copper, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  brown  sugar. 
Boil  the  galls  and  logwood  in  six 
pints  of  spring  or  distilled  water, 
until  nearly  three  pints  of  water  are 
evaporated,  then  strain  it  through  a 
piece  of  flannel.  Powder  the  salts 
in  a  mortar,  dissolve  the  gum  in  a 
little  warm  water,  then  mix  the  whole 
together,  and  shake  itfrequently  for 
tw^o  or  three  days ;  during  which 
time  expose  it  to  the  air,  and  it  will 
become  blacker.  Decant  the  liquor 
into  stone  bottles  well  corked,  and 
it  will  be  fit  for  use  directly.  Those 
who  wish  to  avoid  the  trouble  of  such 
a  process,  will  find  an  excellent  sub- 
stitute in  Walkden's  Ink  Powder  rea- 
dy prepared,  with  directions  how  to 
use  it.  If  a  cup  of  sweet  wort  be 
added  to  two  papers  of  the  powder, 
it  will  give  it  the  brightness  of  japan 
ink. 

BLACK  LEAD.  The  best  prepa- 
ration for  cleaning  cast-iron  stoves 
is  made  of  black  lead,  mixed  with  a 
32 


little  common  gin,  or  the  dregs  of 
port  wine,  and  laid  on  the  stove  with 
a  piece  of  linen  rag.  ^  Then  with  a 
clean  brush,  not  too  hard,  and  dip- 
ped in  some  dried  black  lead  pow- 
der, rub  the  stove  till  it  comes  to  a 
beautiful  brightness.  This  will  pro- 
duce a  much  finer  black  varnish  (  n 
the  cast-iron,  than  either  boiling  the 
black  lead  with  small  beer  and  soap, 
or  mixing  it  with  white  of  egg,  as  is 
commonly  practised. 

BLACK  PAPER,  for  drawing  pat- 
terns, may  easily  be  made  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner.  Mix  and  smooth 
some  lamp-black  and  sweet  oil,  with 
a  piece  of  flannel.  Cover  a  sheet  or 
two  of  large  writing  paper  with  this 
mixture,  then  dab  the  paper  dry  with 
a  rag  of  fine  linen,  and  prepare  it  for 
future  use  by  putting  the  black  side 
on  another  sheet  of  paper,  and  fasten- 
ing the  corners  together  with  a  small 
pin.  When  wanted  to  draw,  lay  the 
pattern  on  the  back  of  the  black  pa- 
per, and  go  over  it  with  the  point  of 
a  steel  pencil.  The  black  paper  will 
then  leave  the  impression  of  the  pat- 
tern on  the  under  sheet,  on  which 
you  must  now  draw  it  with  ink.  If 
you  draw  patterns  on  cloth  or  mus- 
lin, do  it  with  a  pen  dipped  in  a  bit 
of  stone  blue,  a  bit  of  sugar,  and  a 
little  water,  mixed  smooth  in  a  tea 
cup,  in  which  it  will  be  always  ready 
for  use. 

BLACK  PUDDINGS.  The  pig's 
blood  must  be  stirred  with  a  little 
salt  till  it  is  cold.  Put  a  full  quart 
of  it  to  a  quart  of  whole  grits,  and 
let  it  stand  all  night.  Soak  the 
crumb  of  a  quartern  loaf  in  rather 
more  than  two  quarts  of  new  milk 
made  hot.  In  the  meantime  prepare 
the  guts  by  washing,  turning  and 
scraping,  with  salt  and  water,  and 
changing  the  water  several  times. 
Chop  fine  a  little  winter  savoury  and 
thyme,  a  good  quantity  of  pennyroy- 
al, pepper  and  salt,  a  few  cloves,some 
allspice,  ginger  and  nutmeg.  Mix 
these  all  together,  with  three  pounds 
of  beef  suet,  and  six  eggs  w  ell  beat- 


BLA 


BLA 


en  and  strained.  Have  ready  some 
hog's  fat  cut  into  large  bits  ;  and  as 
the  skins  are  filling  with  the  pudding, 
put  in  the  fat  at  intervals.  Tie  up 
in  links  only  half  tilled,  and  boil  in  a 

'  large  kettle,  pricking  them  as  they 
swell,  or  they  will  burst.  When 
boiled,  lay  them  between  clean  cloths 
till  cold,  and  hang  them  up  in  the 
kitchen.  When  to  be  used,  scald 
them  a  few  minutes  in  water  ;  wipe, 
and  put  them  into  a  Dutch  oven.  If 
there  be  not  skins  enough,  put  the 
stuffing  into  basins,  and  boil  it  co- 
vered with  floured  cloths.  Slice 
and  fry  it  when  used. — Another  way 
is,  to  soak  all  night  a  quart  of  bruis- 
ed grits  in  as  much  boiling-hot  milk 
as  will  swell  them,  and  leave  half  a 
pint  of  liquid.  Chop  a  quantity  of 
pennyroyal,  savoury  and  thyme ;  add 
salt  and  pepper,  and  allspice  finely 
powdered.  Mix  the  above  with  a 
quart  of  the  blood,  prepared  as  be- 
fore directed ;  clean  the  skins  tho- 
roughly, half  fill  them  with  the  stuf- 
fing, put  in  as  much  of  the  leaf  fat 
of  the  pig  as  will  make  it  pretty  rich, 
and  boil  as  before  directed.  A  small 
quantity  of  leeks  finely  shred  and 
well  mixed,  is  a  great  improvement. 
— A  superior  article  may  be  made  as 
follows  :  boil  a  quart  of  half-grits  in 
as  much  milk  as  will  swell  them  to 
the  utmost,  drain  them  and  add  a 
quart  of  blood,  a  pint  of  rich  cream, 
a  pound  of  suet,  some  mace,  nutmeg, 
allspice,  and  four  cloves,  all  in  fine 
powder.  And  two  pounds  of  hog's 
leaf  cut  into  dice,  two  leeks,  a  hand- 
ful of  parsley,  ten  leaves  of  sage,  a 
large  handful  of  pennyroyal,  and  a 
sprig  of  thyme  and  knotted  marjo- 
ram, all  finely  minced ;  eight  eggs 
well  beaten,  half  a  pound  of  bread 

.  cmmbs  scalded  in  a  pint  of  milk, 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Soak  and 
clean  the  skins  in  several  waters, 
last  of  all  in  rose-water,  and  half 
fill  them  with  the  stuffing.  Tie  the 
skins  in  links,  boil  and  prick  them 
with  a  clean  fork,  to  prevent  their 


breaking,  and   cover   them   with  a 
clean  cloth  till  cold. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM.  Put  some 
red,  but  not  ripe,  blackberries  into 
a  jar,  and  cover  it  up  closely.  Set 
the  jar  in  a  kettle  or  deep  stewpan 
of  water  over  the  fire,  as  a  water 
bath ;  and  when  it  has  simmered 
five  or  six  hours,  force  the  juice 
through  a  sieve.  To  every  pint  of 
juice,  add  two  pounds  of  powdered 
loaf-sugar,  boiling  and  scumming  it 
in  the  same  manner  as  for  any  other 
jam  or  jelly.  This  simple  article  is 
said  to  aflford  eft'ectual  relief  in  cases 
of  stone  or  gravel :  a  tea-spoonful 
to  be  taken  every  night,  and  repeat- 
ed in  the  morning,  if  necessary.  A 
good  jam  may  also  be  made  of  ripe 
blackberries,  in  a  similar  manner  ; 
and  both,  like  other  jams,  should  be 
kept  in  jars,  closely  tied  over  with 
brandy  paper. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE.  Pick  and 
clean  a  quantity  of  ripe  blackber- 
ries ;  to  every  quart  of  fruit,  add  a 
quart  of  cold  water  which  has  first 
been  boiled.  Bruise  them  well,  and 
let  the  whole  stand  twenty-four 
hours,  stirring  it  occasionally  during 
that  time.  Express  all  the  juice  and 
run  it  through  a  sieve  or  jelly  bag, 
on  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  to 
each  gallon  of  liquid.  Stir  it  till 
thoroughly  dissolved,  put  it  in  a  well 
seasoned  barrel,  add  a  little  dissolv- 
ed isinglass,  and  let  it  remain  open 
till  the  next  day  ;  then  bung  it  up. 
This  makes  a  pleasant  wine,  which 
may  be  bottled  off  in  about  two 
months. 

BLACKING  for  shoes  is  made  of 
four  ounces  of  ivory  black,  three 
ounces  of  the  coarsest  sugar,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sweet  oil,  and  a  pint  of 
small  beer,  gradually  mixed  together 
cold. 

BLACKING  BALLS.  Portable 
shoe-blacking,  in  the  form  of  cakes 
or  balls,  is  made  in  the  following 
manner.  Take  four  ounces  of  mut- 
ton suet,  one  ounce  of  bees-wax,  one 

F  33 


BL  A      • 


BOA 


o(  sweet  oil,  and  a  dram  each  of 
powdered  sugar-candy  and  gum-ara- 
bac.  Melt  them  well  together  over 
a  slow  firci  add  a  spoonful  of  tur- 
pentine, and  lamp-black  sufficient  to 
give  it  a  good  black  colour.  While 
hot  enough  to  run,  make  the  compo- 
sition into  a  ball,  by  pouring  it  into 
a  tin  mould  ;  or  let  it  stand  till  nearly 
cold,  and  then  it  may  be  moulded 
into  any  form  bv  the  hand. 

BLADE-BOSiE  OF  PORK.  Cut 
it  from  the  bacon-hog,  with  a  small 
quantity  of  meat  upon  it,  and  lay  it 
on  the  gridiron.  When  nearly  done 
pepper  and  salt  it.  Add  a  piece  of 
butter,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  mus- 
tard ;  and  serve  it  up  quickly.  This 
dish  is  much  admired  in  Somerset- 
shire. A  blade-bone  of  mutton  may 
be  dressed  in  the  same  way. 

BLAMANGE.  Boil  two  ounces 
of  isinglass  half  an  hour,  in  a  pint 
and  half  of  water,  and  strain  off  the 
cream.  Sweeten  it,  and  add  some 
peach  water,  or  a  few  bitter  almonds ; 
let  it  boil  up  once,  and  put  it  into 
what  forms  you  please.  Be  sure  to 
let  the  blamange  settle  before  you 
turn  it  into  the  forms,  or  the  blacks 
will  remain  at  the  bottom  of  them, 
and  be  on  the  top  of  the  blamange 
when  taken  out  of  the  moulds.  If 
not  to  be  very  stiff,  a  little  less  isin- 
glass will  do. — For  Yellow  Bla- 
mange, pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water 
upon  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  and  the 
peel  of  one  lemon.  When  cold, 
sweeten  with  two  ounces  of  fine  su- 
gar :  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
white  wine,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Stir 
all  together,  and  let  it  boil  five  mi- 
nutes :  strain  through  a  bag,  and 
put  into  cups. 

BLANKETS,  if  not  in  constant 
use,  are  liable  to  be  moth-eaten. 
To  prevent  this,  they  should  be  fold- 
ed and  laid  under  feather  beds  that 
are  in  use,  and  occasionally  shaken. 
Wheu  soiled,  they  should  be  washed, 
not  scoured  :  and  w^ll  dried  before 
^4 


they  are  laid  by,  or  they  will  breed 
moths. 

BLEACHING  OF  STRAW.  This 
is  generally  done  by  the  fumes  ot 
sulphur,  in  a  place  enclosed  for  that 
purpose :  but  to  render  the  straw 
very  white,  and  encrease  its  flexibi- 
lity in  platting,  it  should  be  dipped 
in  a  solution  of  oxygenated  muriatic 
acid,  saturated  with  potash.  Oxy- 
genated muriate  of  lime  will  also 
answer  the  purpose.  To  repair  straw 
bonnets,  they  must  be  carefully  rip- 
ped to  pieces  ;  the  plat  should  be 
bleached  with  the  above  solution, 
and  made  up  afresh. 

BLUE  INK.  Dissolve  an  ounce 
of  finely  powdered  verdigris,  and 
half  an  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  in 
three  ounces  of  water.  This  will 
make  a  fine  blue  writing  ink,  which 
has  the  singular  property  of  giving 
to  an  iron  nail,  immersed  in  it  for 
twenty -four  hours,  a  beautiful  green 
colour. 

BOARDED  FLOORS  will  pre- 
serve a  beautiful  appearance,  if  treat- 
ed in  the  following  manner.  After 
washing  them  very  clean  with  soda 
and  warm  water,  and  a  brush,  wash 
them  with  a  large  sponge  and  clean 
water,  observing  that  no  spot  be  left 
untouched.  Be  careful  to  clean 
straight  up  and  down,  not  crossing 
from  board  to  board  :  then  dry  with 
clean  cloths,  rubbing  hard  up  and 
down  the  same  way.  The  floors 
should  not  be  often  wetted,  but  very 
thoroughly  when  done  ;  and  once  a 
week  dry-rubbed  with  hot  sand,  and 
a  heavy  brush,  the  right  way  of  the 
boards.  If  oil  or  grease  have  stained 
the  floor,  make  a  strong  lye  of  pearl- 
ashes  and  soft  water,  and  add  as 
much  unslaked  lime  as  it  will  take 
up.  Stii  u  together,  and  then  let  it 
settle  a  few  minutes  ;  bottle  it,  and 
stop  it  close.  When  used,  lower  it 
with  a  little  Mater,  and  scour  the 
part  with  it.  If  the  liquor  lie  long 
on  the  boards,  it  will  extract  their 
colour  ;  it  must  therefore  be  done 


BOl 


BO  I 


with  care  and  expedition.  Stone 
work  may  be  freed  from  stains  in 
the  same  way. 

BOOKINGS.  Mix  three  ounces 
of  buck-wheat  flour  with  a  tea-cup- 
ful of  warm  milk,  and  a  spoonful  of 
yeast.  Let  it  rise  before  the  fire 
about  an  hour ;  then  mix  four  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  as  much  milk  as 
will  make  the  batter  the  usual  thick- 
ness for  pancakes,  and  fry  them  in 
the  same  manner. 

BOILING.  Cleanliness  here  is  of 
great  consequence  ;  and  for  this 
purpose  all  culinary  vessels  should 
be  made  of  iron,  or  of  other  metals 
well  tinned.  The  pernicious  effects 
of  copper  or  brass  may  be  perceived 
by  rubbing  the  hand  round  the  inside 
of  a  pot  or  kettle  made  of  either  of 
those  metals,  and  which  has  been 
scoured  clean  and  fit  for  use  ;  for 
though  it  may  not  discolour  the  hand, 
yet  it  will  cause  an  ofl'ensive  smell, 
and  must  in  some  degree  affect  every 
article  which  is  put  into  it.  If  cop- 
per or  brass  be  used,  they  should 
be  well  cleaned,  and  nothing  suffer- 
ed to  remain  in  the  vessels  longer 
than  is  necessary  for  the  purposes 
of  cooking.  In  small  families  how- 
ever, block-tin  saucepans  and  boilers 
are  much  to  be  preferred,  as  lightest 
and  safest.  If  proper  care  be  taken 
of  them,  and  they  are  well  dried  af- 
ter being  cleaned,  they  are  also  by 
far  the  cheapest ;  the  purchase  of  a 
new  tin  saucepan  being  little  more 
than  the  expense  of  tinning  a  copper 
one.  Care  should  be  taken  to  have 
the  covers  of  boiling  pots  fit  close, 
not  only  to  prevent  an  unnecessary 
evaporation  of  the  water,  but  that 
the  smoke  may  not  insinuate  itself 
under  the  edge  of  the  lid,  and  give 
the  meat  a  bad  taste.  A  trl  *^t  or  fish 
drainer  placed  in  the  be  er  to  lay 
the  meat  on,  and  to  raise  it  an  inch 
and  a  half  from  the  bottom,  will  pre- 
vent that  side  of  it  which  comes  next 
the  bottom  from  being  done  too 
ipuch,  and  the  lower  part  of  the 
meat  will  be  as  delicately  done  as 


any  other.  Instead  of  a  trivet,  four 
skewers  stuck  into  the  meat  trans- 
versely will  answer  the  purpose,  or 
a  soup  plate  whelmed  the  wrong  side 
upwards.  With  good  management 
it  will  take  less  fire  for  boiling  than 
for  roasting,  but  it  should  be  kept 
to  a  regular  pitch,  so  as  to  keep  the 
pot  gently  boiling  all  the  time.  If 
it  boils  too  fast,  it  will  harden  the 
meat,  by  extracting  too  much  of  the 
gravy  ;  but  if  it  be  allowed  to  sim- 
mer only,  or  to  boil  gently,  it  will 
become  rich  and  tender.  The  scum 
must  be  carefully  taken  off  as  soon 
as  the  water  boils,  or  it  will  sink  and 
discolour  the  meat.  The  oftener  it 
is  scummed,  and  the  cleaner  the  top 
of  the  water  is  kept,  the  cleaner  will 
be  the  meat ;  and  if  a  little  cold  wa- 
ter be  occasionally  thrown  in,  it  will 
bring  up  the  remainder  of  the  scum 
to  the  surface.  Neither  mixing  milk 
with  the  water  nor  wrapping  up  the 
meat  in  a  cloth  are  necessary,  if  the 
scum  be  attentively  removed  ;  and 
the  meat  will  have  a  more  delicate 
colour,  and  a  finer  flavour,  if  boiled 
in  clear  water  only.  The  general 
rule  for  boiling  is  to  allow  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  to  a  pound  of  meat ;  but 
if  it  be  boiled  gently  or  simmered 
only,  which  is  by  far  the  superior 
way,  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound 
will  scarcely  be  found  too  much. 
At  the  same  time  care  must  be  taken 
to  keep  the  pot  constantly  boiling, 
and  not  to  sufl'er  the  meat  to  remain 
in  after  it  is  done  enough,  or  it  will 
become  sodden,  and  lose  its  flavour. 
The  quantity  of  water  is  regulated 
by  the  size  of  the  meat ;  sufficient 
to  cover  it,  but  not  to  drown  it ;  and 
the  less  water,  the  more  savoury  will 
the  meat  be,  and  the  better  the  broth. 
It  is  usual  to  put  all  kinds  of  fresh 
meat  into  hot  water,  and  salt  meat 
into  cold  water  ;  but  if  the  meat  has 
been  salted  only  a  short  time  it  is 
better  to  put  it  in  when  the  water 
boils,  or  it  will  draw  out  too  much 
of  the  gravy.  Lamb,  veal,  and  pork 
require  rather  more  boiling  than 
35 


BOt 


BOI 


other  meat,  to  make  them  whole- 
some. The  hind  quarters  of  most 
animals  require  longer  time  to  dress 
than  the  fore  quarters,  and  all  kinds 
of  provision  require  more  time  in 
frosty  weather  than  in  summer. 
Large  joints  of  beef  and  mutton  are 
better  a  little  underdone ;  they  make 
the  richer  hash  ;  but  meat  that  is 
fresh  slain  will  remain  tough  and 
hard,  in  whatever  way  it  may  be 
cooked.  All  meat  should  be  washed 
clean  before  it  is  put  into  the  boiler, 
but  salt  meat  especially.  A  ham  of 
twenty  pounds  will  take  four  hours 
and  a  half  in  boiling,  and  others  in 
proportion.  A  dried  tongue,  after 
being  soaked,  will  take  four  hours 
boiling :  a  tongue  out  of  pickle,  from 
two  hours  an^  a  half  to  three  hours, 
or  more  if  very  large :  it  must  be 
judged  by  its  feeling  quite  tender. 
Boiling  is  in  general  the  most  econo- 
mical mode  of  cooking,  if  care  be 
taken  to  preserve  the  broth,  and  ap- 
ply it  to  useful  purposes. 

BOILED  BACON.  Soak  it,  and 
take  off  the  rind  before  boiling.  A 
pound  of  bacon  boiled  without  the 
skin  will  weigh  an  ounce  heavier  than 
a  pound  boiled  with  it.  Fat  bacon 
should  be  put  into  hot  water,  and 
lean  into  cold  water,  when  it  is  to  be 
dressed.  Young  bacon  will  boil  in 
about  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
Grate  some  toasted  bread  over  it, 
and  set  it  near  the  fire  to  brown  it 
a  little,  before  it  is  sent  to  table. 

BOILED  BEEF.  When  the  wa- 
ter boils  put  in  the  meat,  whether 
beef  or  mutton,  and  take  off  the  scum 
as  it  rises.  If  the  scum  be  suffered 
to  sink,  it  will  stick  to  the  meat,  and 
spoil  its  colour.  Turnips,  greens, 
potatoes,  or  carrots  with  the  beef, 
and  caper  sauce  with  the  mutton. 

BOILED  CUSTARD.  Set  a  pint 
of  cream  over  a  slow  fire,  adding  two 
ounces  of  sugar,  and  the  rind  of  a 
lemon.  Take  it  off  the  firetis  soon 
as  it  begins  to  simmer ;  as  the  cream 
cools,  add  by  degrees  the  yolks  of 
ei^ht  eggs  well  beaten,  with  a  ppoo'*- 
3G 


ful  of  orange  water.  Stir  it  care- 
fully over  a  slow  fire  till  it  almost 
boils,  and  strain  it  quickly  through 
a  piece  of  thin  muslin.  Put  it  into 
cups,  and  serve  it  up  cold. 

BOILED  DUCK.  Choose  a  fine 
fat  duck,  salt  it  two  days,  and  boil 
it  slowly  in  a  cloth.  Serve  it  with 
onion  sauce,  but  melt  the  butter  with 
milk  instead  of  water. 

BOILED  EELS.  The  small  ones 
are  best,  provided  they  are  bright, 
and  of  a  good  colour.  After  they 
are  skinned,  boil  them  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water,  with  a  quantity  of 
parsley,  which  with  the  liquor  should 
be  sent  to  table  with  them.  Serve 
chopped  parsley  and  butter  for 
sauce. 

BOILED  FOWL.  For  boiling, 
choose  those  that  are  not  black- 
legged.  Pick  them  nicely,  singe, 
wash,  and  truss  them.  Flour  them, 
and  put  them  into  boiling  water: 
half  an  hour  will  be  sufhcient  for 
one  of  middling  size.  Serve  with 
parsley  and  butter;  oyster,  lemon, 
liver,  or  celery  sauce.  If  for  dinner, 
ham,  tongue  or  bacon  is  usually 
served  with  them,  and  also  greens. 
— When  cooked  with  rice,  stew  the 
fowl  very  slowly  in  some  clear  mut- 
ton broth  well  skimmed,  and  sea- 
soned with  onion,  mace,  pepper  and 
salt.  About  half  an  hour  before 
it  is  ready,  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  rice  well  washed  and  soaked. 
Simmer  it  till  it  is  quite  tender, 
strain  it  from  the  broth,  and  put  the 
rice  on  a  sieve  before  the  fire.  Keep 
the  fowl  hot,  lay  it  in  the  middle  of 
the  dish,  and  the  rice  round  it  with- 
out the  broth.  The  broth  will  be 
nice  by  itself,  but  the  less  liquor  the 
fowl  is  done  with  the  better.  Gravy, 
or  parsley  and  butter,  for  sauce. 

BOILED  HAM.  Soak  the  ham 
in  cold  water  the  night  before  it  is 
to  be  dressed,  scrape  it  clean,  and 
put  it  into  the  boiler  with  cold  wa- 
ter. Skim  the  liquor  while  boiling ; 
let  it  not  boil  fast,  but  simmer  only, 
and  add  a  little  cold  water  occasion- 


BOl 


BOL 


ally  for  this  purpose.  When  the 
liam  is  done,  take  it  up,  pull  off  the 
skin  carefully,  and  grate  a  crust  of 
bread  over  it  so  as  to  cover  it  tolera- 
bly thick.  Set  it  before  the  fire,  or 
put  it  into  the  oven  till  the  bread  is 
crisp  ;  garnish  it  with  carrots,  or  any 
thing  that  is  in  season.  A  ham  of 
twenty  pounds  will  require  five  hours 
boiling,  and  others  in  proportion. 

BOILED  LEG  OF  PORK.  Salt 
it  eight  or  ten  days  ;  and  when  it  is 
to  be  dressed,  weigh  it.  Let  it  lie 
half  an  hour  in  cold  water  to  make 
it  white  :  allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
for  every  pound,  and  half  an  hour 
over,  from  the  time  it  boils  up.  Skim 
it  as  soon  as  it  boils,  and  frequently 
after.  Allow  plenty  of  water,  and 
save  some  of  it  for  peas-soup.  The 
leg  should  be  small,  and  of  a  fine 
grain  ;  and  if  boiled  in  a  floured 
cloth,  it  will  improve  the  colour  and 
appearance.  Serve  it  with  peas- 
pudding  and  turnips. 

BOILED  SALMON.  Clean  it 
carefully,  boil  it  gently,  and  take  it 
out  of  the  water  as  soon  as  done. 
Let  the  water  be  warm,  if  the  fish 
be  split :  if  underdone,  it  is  very  un- 
wholesome. Serve  with  shrimp  or 
anchovy  sauce. 

BOILED  TURBOT.  The  turbot 
kettle  must  be  of  a  proper  size,  and 
in  good  order.  Set  the  fish  in  cold 
water  sufficient  to  cover  it  complete- 
ly, throw  a  handful  of  salt  and  a 
glass  of  vinegar  into  it,  and  let  it 
gradually  boil.  Be  very  careful  that 
no  blacks  fall  into  it ;  but  skim  it 
well,  and  preserve  the  beautiful  co- 
lour of  the  fish.  Serve  it  garnished 
with  a  complete  fringe  of  curled 
parsley,  lemon  and  horse-radish. 
The  sauce  must  be  the  finest  lobster, 
anchovy  and  butter,  and  plain  but- 
ter, served  plentifully  in  separate 
tureens. — If  necessary,  turbot  will 
keep  two  or  three  days,  and  be  in  as 
high  perfection  as  at  first,  if  lightly 
rubbed  over  with  salt,  and  carefully 
hung  in  a  cold  place. 
'       BOILED  TURKEY.      A  turkey 


will  neither  boil  white  nor  eat  tender, 
unless  it  has  been  killed  three  or 
four  days.  Pick  it  clean,  draw  it  at 
the  rump,  cut  off  the  legs,  stick  the 
end  of  the  thighs  into  the  body,  and 
tie  them  fast.  Flour  the  turkey,  put 
it  into  the  water  while  cold,  let  it 
boil  gently  half  an  hour  or  more, 
take  off  the  scum,  and  cover  the 
kettle  close.  Make  the  stuffing  of 
grated  bread  and  lemon  peel,  four 
ounces  of  shred  suet,  a  few  chopped 
oysters,  two  eggs,  and  a  little  cream. 
Fill  the  craw  with  stuffing,  and  make 
the  rest  into  balls,  which  are  to  be 
boiled  and  laid  round  the  dish.  The 
stuffing  may  be  made  without  oys- 
ters ;  or  force-meat  or  sausage  may 
be  used,  mixed  with  crumbs  of  bread 
and  yolks  of  eggs.  Celery  sauce  or 
white  sauce  is  very  proper. 

BOILED  VEAL.  Dredge  it  with 
flour,  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth,  and  put  it 
in  when  the  water  boils.  A  knuckle 
requires  more  boiling  in  proportion 
to  its  weight,  than  any  other  joint, 
to  render  the  gristle  soft  and  tender. 
Parsley  and  butter,bacon  and  greens, 
are  commonly  eaten  with  it. 

BOILERS.  Copper  boilers  and 
saucepans  are  apt  to  become  leaky, 
when  they  have  been  joined  or  mend- 
ed, or  from  bruises,  which  some- 
times render  them  unfit  for  use.  In 
this  case  a  cement  of  pounded  quick- 
lime, mixed  with  ox's  blood,  applied 
fresh  to  the  injured  part,  will  be  of 
great  advantage,  and  very  durable. 
A  valuable  cement  for  such  purposes 
may  also  be  made  of  equal  parts  of 
vinegar  and  milk  mixed  together  so 
as  to  produce  a  curd  :  the  whey  is 
then  put  to  the  whites  of  four  or  five 
eggs  after  they  have  been  well  beat- 
en, and  the  whole  reduced  to  a  thick 
paste  by  the  addition  of  some  quick- 
lime finely  sifted.  This  composion 
applied  to  cracks  or  fissures  of  any 
kind,  and  properly  dried,  will  resist 
the  effects  of  fire  and  water. 

BOLOGNA    SAUSAGES.      Cut 
into   small   pieces   four   pounds  of 
lean  beef,  and  add  to  it  a  pound  of 
37 


BOO 


BOT 


diced  suet,  with  the  same  quantity 
of  diced  bacon.  Season  with  all- 
spice, pepper,  bay  salt,  saltpetre, 
and  a  little  powder  of  bay  leaves. 
Mix  the  whole  together,  tie  the  meat 
up  in  skins  about  the  thickness  of 
the  wrist,  dry  the  sausages  in  the 
same  manner  as  tongues,  and  eat 
them  without  boiling. 

BOLOGNA  SOUP.  Bind  close 
with  packthread,  fifteen  pounds  of 
brisket  of  beef,  and  put  it  into  a 
pot  with  water  suthcient  to  cover  it. 
Then  add  three  large  carrots,  some 
good  turnips,  four  onions,  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  and  half  a  white 
cabbage  sliced  and  fried  in  butter. 
The  pot  must  be  well  scummed  be- 
fore the  herbs  are  put  in.  It  must 
boil  very  slow  ly  for  five  or  six  hours ; 
and  when  half  boiled,  prepare  three 
or  four  pounds  of  loin  of  nmtton, 
with  all  the  fat  taken  off,  and  put  it 
into  the  pot.  Flavour  the  soup  with 
whole  pepper,  and  a  head  of  celery ; 
and  to  make  it  of  a  good  colour, 
draw  the  gravy  from  a  pound  of  lean 
beef  over  a  slow  fire,  and  add  a  la^ 
dle-ful  to  the  soup,  first  carefully 
taking  off  all  the  fat.  Having  cut 
and  dried  the  crust  of  a  French  roll, 
lay  it  in  a  stewpan  with  a  little  soup  ; 
and  after  stewing  it  over  a  slow  fire, 
place  it  with  a  slice  in  the  soup  tu- 
reen. The  beef  must  be  untied,  and 
served  up  with  chopped  parsley 
strewed  over  it ;  accompanied  also 
with  gravy  sauce,  a  few  capers,  and 
some  chopped  carrots,  thickened 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Add  a  lit' 
tie  seasoning  to  the  soup. 

BOOTS.  Persons  who  travei 
much,  or  are  often  exposed  to  the 
weather,  must  be  sensible  of  the  im- 
portance of  being  provided  with 
boots  that  will  resist  the  wet.  The 
following  is  a  composition  for  pre- 
serving leather,  the  good  effects  of 
which  vire  sufficiently  ascertained. 
One  pint  of  drying  oil,  two  ounces 
of  yellow  wax,  two  ounces  of  spirit 
of  turpentine,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
Burgundy  pitch,  should  be  carefully 
Z6 


melted  together  over  a  slow  fir^. 
With  this  mixture,  new  shoes  and 
boots  are  to  be  rubbed  in  the  sun, 
or  at  some  distance  from  the  fire, 
with  a  sponge  or  brush.  The  ope- 
ration is  to  be  repeated  as  often  as 
they  become  dry,  and  until  they  are 
fully  saturated.  In  this  manner  the 
leather  becomes  impervious  to  the 
wet :  the  boots  or  shoes  last  much 
longer  than  those  of  common  leather, 
acquire  «uch  softness  and  pliability 
that  tl.ry  ne^er  shrivel  or  grow  hard, 
and  in  that  state  are  the  most  effec- 
tual preservation  against  wet  and 
cold.  It  is  necessary  to  observe, 
however,  that  boots  or  shoes  thus 
prepared  ought  not  to  be  worn  till 
they  become  perfectly  dry  and  flex- 
ible :  otherwise  the  leather  will  be 
too  soft,  and  the  boots  unservice- 
able. 

BOOT  TOPS.  Many  of  the  com- 
positions sold  for  the  purpose  of 
cleaning  and  restoring  the  colour  of 
boot  tops,  are  not  found  to  answer, 
and  are  often  injurious  to  the  leather. 
A  safe  and  easy  preparation  is  made 
of  a  quart  of  boiled  milk,  which, 
when  cold,  is  to  be  mixed  with  an 
ounce  of  the  oil  of  vitriol,  and  an 
ounce  of  the  spirit  of  salts,  shaken 
well  together.  An  ounce  of  red  la- 
vender is  then  to  be  added,  and  the 
liquid  applied  to  the  leather  with  a 
sponge.  Or,  mix  a  dram  of  oxy- 
muriate  of  potash  with  two  ounces  of 
distilled  water ;  and  when  the  salt 
is  dissolved,  add  two  ounces  of  mu- 
riatic acid.  Shake  together  in  anor 
ther  vial,  three  ounces  of  rectified 
spirits  of  wine,  with  half  an  ounce  of 
the  essential  oil  of  lemon,  and  unite 
the  contents  of  the  two  vials,  keeping 
the  liquid  closely  corked  for  use.  It 
is  to  be  applied  with  a  clean  sponge, 
and  dried  gently ;  after  which  the 
tops  may  be  polished  with  a  proper 
brush,  so  as  to  appear  like  new  lea- 
ther. This  mixture  will  readily  take 
out  grease,  or  any  kind  of  spots,  from 
leather  or  parchment.  ^ 

BOTTLES.     The  common  prac- 


BOT 


BRA 


tice  of  cleaning  glass  bottles  with 
shot  is  highly  improper;  for  if 
through  inattention  any  of  it  should 
remain,  when  the  bottles  are  again 
filled  with  wine  or  cider,  the  lead 
will  be  dissolved,  and  the  liquor  im- 
pregnated with  its  pernicious  quali- 
ties. A  few  ounces  of  potash  dis- 
solved in  water  will  answer  the  pur- 
pose much  better,  and  clean  a  great 
number  of  bottles.  If  any  impurity 
adhere  to  the  sides,  a  few  pieces  of 
blotting  paper  put  into  the  bottle, 
and  shaken  with  the  water,  will  very 
soon  remove  it.  Another  way  is  to 
roll  up  some  pieces  of  blotting  pa- 
per, steep  them  in  soap  and  water, 
then  put  them  into  bottles  or  decan- 
ters with  a  little  warm  water,  and 
shake  them  well  for  a  few  minutes : 
after  this  they  will  only  require  to 
be  rinsed  and  dried. 

BOTTLING  LIQUORS.  Here 
the  first  thing  to  be  attended  to  is, 
to  see  that  the  bottles  be  perfectly 
clean  and  dry ;  if  wet,  they  will  spoil 
the  liquor,  and  make  it  turn  mouldy. 
Then,  though  the  bottles  should  be 
clean  and  dry,  yet  if  the  corks  be 
not  new  and  sound,  the  liquor  will 
be  damaged ;  for  if  the  air  can  by 
any  means  penetrate,  the  liquor  will 
grow  flat,  and  never  rise.  As  soon 
as  a  cask  of  liquor  begins  to  grow 
vapid,  and  to  lose  its  briskness,  while 
it  is  on  the  tap,  it  should  be  drawn 
off  immediately  into  bottles  ;  and  in 
order  to  quicken  it,  put  a  piece  of 
loaf  sugar  into  every  bottle,  about 
the  size  of  a  walnut.  To  forward 
the  ripening,  wrap  the  bottles  in  hay, 
and  set  them  in  a  warm  place ;  straw 
will  not  answer  the  purpose.  When 
ale  is  to  be  bottled,  it  will  be  an 
improvement  to  add  a  little  rice,  a 
few  raisins,  or  a  tea-spoonful  of 
moist  sugar  to  each  bottle.  In  the 
summer  time,  if  table  beer  is  bottled 
as  soon  as  it  has  done  working,  it 
wdll  soon  become  brisk,  and  make  a 
very  pleasant  and  refreshing  drink. 

BOTTLED    CURRANTS,       See 


that  the  bottles  be  perfectly  clean 
and  dry,  and  let  the  fruit  be  gather- 
ed quite  ripe,  and  when  the  weather 
is  dry.  The  currants  should  be  cut 
from  the  large  stalks,  with  the  small 
est  bit  of  stalk  to  each,  and  care 
taken  not  to  wound  the  fruit,  that 
none  of  the  moisture  may  escape. 
It  would  be  best  indeed  to  cut  them 
under  the  trees,  and  let  them  drop 
gently  into  the  bottles.  Stop  up  the 
bottles  with  cork  and  rosin,  and 
trench  them  in  the  garden  with  the 
neck  downwards :  sticks  should  be 
placed  opposite  to  where  each  sort 
of  fVuit  begins.  Cherries  and  dam- 
sons may  be  kept  in  the  same  way. 

BOTTLED  GOOSEBERRIES. 
Pick  some  smooth  gooseberries  be- 
fore they  are  quite  full  grown,  put 
them  into  gooseberry  bottles  lightly 
corked,  and  set  them  up  to  their  necks 
in  a  copper  of  cold  water.  Put  a 
little  hay  round  the  bottles  to  prevent 
their  breaking,  make  a  fire  under 
them,  and  let  the  heat  increase  gra- 
dually ;  let  them  simmer  ten  minutes, 
but  not  boil.  Take  out  the  fire,  and 
let  them  remain  in  the  copper  till 
cold.  Then  take  them  out,  dry  the 
bottles,  rosin  down  the  corks  close, 
and  set  them  in  dry  saw-dust  with 
their  necks  downward. 

BRAISING.  To  braise  any  kind 
of  meat,  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  and 
cover  it  with  fat  bacon.  Then  add 
six  or  eight  onions,  a  bundle  of 
herbs,  carrots,  celery,  any  bones  or 
trimmings  of  meat  or  fowls,  and  some 
stock.  The  bacon  must  be  covered 
with  white  paper,  and  the  lid  of  the 
pan  must  be  kept  close.  Set  it  on 
a  slow  stove  ;  and  according  to  what 
the  meat  is,  it  will  require  tv  o  or 
three  hours.  The  meat  is  th«;a  lo 
be  taken  out,  the  gravy  nicely  skim- 
med, and  set  on  to  boil  very  <?uick 
till  it  is  thick.  The  meat  is  to  he  Kept 
hot ;  and  if  larded,  put  into  the  oven 
for  a  few  minutes.  Then  put  the 
jelly  over  it,  which  is  called  glazing, 
and  is  used  for  ham,  tongue,  and 
39 


BRA 


BRA 


various  made-dishes.  White  wine 
is  added  to  some  glazing.  The 
glaze  should  be  of  beautiful  clear 
yellow  brown,  and  it  is  best  put  on 
with  a  nice  brush. 

BRAISED  CHICKENS.  Bone 
them,  and  fill  them  with  forcemeat. 
Lay  the  bones  and  any  other  poultry 
trimmings  into  a  stewpan,  and  the 
chickens  on  them.  Put  to  them  a 
few  onions,  a  handful  of  herbs,  three 
blades  of  mace,  a  pint  of  stock,  and 
a  glass  or  two  of  sherry.  Cover  the 
chickens  with  slices  of  bacon,  and 
then  white  paper ;  cover  the  whole 
close,  and  put  them  on  a  slow  stove 
for  two  hours.  Then  take  them  up, 
strain  the  braise,  and  skim  off  the 
fat  carefully  :  set  it  on  to  boil  very 
quick  to  a  glaze,  and  lay  it  over  the 
chicken  with  a  brush.  Before  glaz- 
ing, put  the  chicken  into  an  oven 
for  a  few  minutes,  to  give  it  a  colour. 
Serve  with  a  brown  fricassee  of 
mushrooms. 

BRAISED  MUTTON.  Take  off 
the  chump  end  of  a  loin  of  mutton, 
cover  it  with  buttered  paper,  and 
then  with  paste,  as  for  venison. 
Roast  it  two  hours,  but  let  it  not  be 
browned.  Have  ready  some  French 
beans  boiled,  and  drained  on  a  sieve ; 
and  while  you  are  glazing  the  mut- 
ton, give  the  beans  one  heat-up  in 
gravy,  and  lay  them  on  the  dish  with 
the  meat  over  them. 
.  BRAISED  VEAL.  Lard  the  best 
end  of  a  neck  of  veal  with  bacon 
rolled  in  chopped  parsley,  salt,  per- 
per  and  nutmeg.  Put  it  into  a  tosser, 
and  cover  it  with  water.  Add  the 
scrag  end  of  the  neck,  a  little  lean 
bacon  or  ham,  an  onion,  two  carrots, 
two  heads  of  celery,  and  a  glass  of 
Madeira.  Stew  it  quickly  for  two 
hours,  or  till  it  is  tender,  but  not 
too  much.  Strain  off  the  liquor : 
mix  a  little  flour  and  butter  in  a 
stewpan  till  brown,  and  lay  the  veal 
in  this,  the  upperside  to  the  bottom 
of  the  pan.  Let  it  be  over  the  fire 
till  it  gets  coloured  :  then  lay  it  into 
40 


the  dish,  stir  some  of  the  liquor  ift 
and  boil  it  up,  skim  it  nicely,  and 
squeeze  orange  and  lemon  juice 
into  it. 

BRANDY  CREAM.  Boil  two 
dozen  of  blanched  almonds,  and 
pounded  bitter  almonds,  in  a  little 
milk.  When  cold,  add  to  it  the 
yolks  of  five  eggs  beating  well  in 
cream  ;  sweeten,  and  put  to  it  two 
glasses  of  good  brandy.  After  it  is 
well  mixed,  pour  to  it  a  quart  of 
thin  cream  ;  set  it  over  the  fire,  but 
not  to  boil.  Stir  it  one  way  till  it 
thickens,  then  pour  into  cups  or  low 
glasses,  and  when  cold  it  will  be 
ready.  A  ratafia  drop  may  be  added 
to  each  cup ;  and  if  intended  to 
keep,  the  cream  must  be  previously 

^r* PI  III (^f\ 

BRANDY  PUDDING.  Line  a 
mould  with  jar-raisins  stoned,  or 
dried  cherries,  then  with  thin  slices 
of  French  roll ;  next  to  which  put 
ratafias,  or  macaroons  ;  then  the 
fruit,  rolls  and  cakes  in  succession, 
till  the  mould  is  full,  sprinkling  in 
at  times  two  glasses  of  brandy. 
Beat  four  eggs,  add  a  pint  of  milk 
or  cream  lightly  sweetened,  half  a 
nutmeg,  and  the  rind  of  half  a  le- 
mon finely  grated.  Let  the  liquid 
sink  into  (he  solid  part ;  then  flour 
a  cloth,  tie  it  ti^ht  over,  and  boil 
one  hour ;  keep  the  mould  the  right 
side  up.     Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

BRASS.  Culinary  vessels  made 
of  this  me(al,  are  constantly  in  dan- 
ger of  contracting  verdigris.  To 
prevent  this,  instead  of  wiping  them 
dry  in  the  usual  manner,  let  them  be 
frequently  immersed  in  water,  and 
they  will  be  preserved  safe  and 
clean. 

BRAWN.  Young  brawn  is  to  be 
preferred,  the  horny  part  of  which 
will  feel  moderately  tender,  and  the 
flavour  will  be  better ;  the  rind  of 
old  brawn  will  be  hard.  For  Mock 
Brawn,  boil  a  pair  of  neat's  feet  very 
tender  ;  take  the  meat  off,  and  have 
ready  a   belly-piece  of  salt  pork. 


BRE 


BRE 


which  has  been  in  pickle  for  a  week. 
Boil  this  almost  enough,  take  out 
the  bones  if  there  be  any,  and  roll 
the  feet  and  the  pork  together. 
Bind  it  tigh|  together  with  a  strong 
clotli  and  coarse  tape,  boil  it  quite 
tender,  and  hang  it  up  in  the  cloth 
till  cold.  Keep  it  afterwards  in 
souse  till  it  is  wanted. 

BREAD.  Two  very  important 
reasons  urge  the  j)ropriety  ami  ne- 
cessity of  using  home-baked  bread, 
in  preference  to  baker's  bread, 
wherever  it  can  be  done  with  tolera- 
ble convenience  ;  these  are,  its  supe- 
rior quality,  and  its  cheapness.  A 
bushel  of  wheat,  weighing  sixty 
pounds,  will  make  sixty-five  pounds 
of  household  bread,  after  the  bran 
has  been  taken  out ;  and  if  the  pol- 
lard be  separated  also,  to  make  a 
liner  article,  a  bushel  of  ground 
wheat  will  then  make  tifty-eight 
pounds  of  fine  white  bread,  free  from 
any  foreign  mixture,  leaving  from 
ten  to  fifteen  pounds  of  bran  and 
pollard,  which  may  be  applied  to 
useful  purposes.  The  calculation 
then  will  be  easy,  and  the  difference 
between  purchasing  and  making 
bread  will  be  seen  at  once.  A  bushel 
of  ground  wheat  weighing  sixty 
pounds ;  will  produce  thirteen  quar- 
tern loaves  and  a  half  of  fine  bread, 
after  the  bran  and  pollard  have  been 
taken  out ;  add  to  the  price  of  the 
wheat,  nine-pence  a  bushel  for  grind- 
ing, three-pence  for  yeast,  four- 
pence  for  salt  and  the  expence  of 
baking ;  and  from  this  deduct  six- 
pence at  least  for  the  value  of  the 
bran  and  pollard,  and  it  gives  the 
price  of  the  quartern  loaves  made 
and  baked  at  home.  In  general  it 
will  be  found  that  there  is  a  saving 
of  one  third  of  the  expense,  if  the 
business  be  properly  conducted. 
Then  the  wholesome  and  nutricious 
quality  of  the  bread  is  incompara- 
bly superior ;  there  is  no  addition 
of  alurti,  ground  potatoes,  whiting, 
or  any  other  ingredient  to  give  weight 


or  colour  to  the  bread,  as  is  too  of- 
ten the  case  with  baker's  bread ; 
but  all  is  nutricious,  sound,  and  good. 
But  supposing  their  bread  to  be 
equal  in  quality,  there  is  still  a  con- 
siderable saving  in  the  course  of  a 
year,  especially  in  a  large  family ; 
and  if  household  bread  be  made  in- 
stead of  fine  bread,  every  bushel  of 
good  heavy  wheat  will  produce  near- 
ly fifteen  quartern  loaves.  Besides 
this,  rye,  and  even  a  little  barley 
mixed  with  the  wheat,  will  make 
very  good  bread,  and  render  it 
cheaper  still.  Rye  will  add  a  sweet- 
ness to  the  bread,  and  make  it  cut 
firmer,  so  as  to  prevent  the  waste  of 
crumbs,  and  is  unquestionably  an 
article  of  good  economy.  The  ad- 
dition of  potatoes  is  by  no  means  to 
be  approved,  though  so  often  re- 
commended ;  any  of  the  grains  al- 
ready mentioned  have  in  them  ten 
times  the  nutrition  of  potatoes,  and 
in  the  end  will  be  found  to  be  much 
cheaper.  Making  bread  with  skim 
milk,  instead  of  water,  where  it  can 
be  done,  is  highly  advantageous, 
and  will  produce  a  much  better  ar- 
tle  than  can  be  purchased  at  a  ba- 
ker's shop. — On  the  subject  of  mak- 
ing bread,  little  need  be  said,  as 
every  common  maid-servant  is  or 
ought  to  be  well  acquainted  with 
this  necessary  part  of  household 
work,  or  she  is  good  for  nothing. 
To  make  good  bread  however,  the 
flour  should  be  kept  four  or  five 
weeks  before  it  is  baked.  Then  put 
half  a  bushel  of  it  into  a  kneading 
trough,  mix  with  it  between  four 
and  five  quarts  of  warm  water  or  skim 
milk,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  good 
yeast,  and  stir  it  well  together  with 
the  hand  till  it  become  tough.  Let 
it  rise  before  the  fire,  about  an  hour 
and  a  half,  or  less  if  it  rise  fast; 
then,  before  it  falls,  add  four  quarts 
more  of  warm  water,  and  half  a 
pound  of  salt.  Work  it  well,  and 
cover  it  with  a  cloth.  Put  the  fire 
into  the  oven  ;  and  by  the  time  it  is 

G  "       n 


BRE 


BRE 


heated,  the  dough  \vill  be  ready. 
Make  the  loaves  about  five  pounds 
each,  sweep  out  the  oven  very  clean 
and  quick,  and  put  in  the  bread  ; 
shut  it  up  close,  and  two  hours  and 
a  half  will  bake  it.  In  summer  the 
water  should  be  milk  warm,  in  win- 
ter a  little  more,  and  in  frosty  wea- 
ther as  hot  as  the  hand  will  bear, 
but  not  scalding,  or  the  whole  will 
be  spoiled.  Bread  is  better  baked 
without  tins,  which  gives  to  the  crust 
an  unnatural  degree  of  hardness. — 
Those  who  are  under  the  necessity 
of  purchasing  baker's  bread,  for 
want  of  other  convenience,  may  de- 
tect the  adulteration  of  alum  by  ma- 
cerating a  small  piece  of  the  crumb 
of  new-baked  bread  in  cold  water, 
sufficient  to  dissolve  it  ;  and  the 
taste  of  the  alum,  if  it  has  been  used, 
will  acquire  a  sweet  astringency.  Or 
a  heated  knife  may  be  thrust  into  a 
loaf  before  it  has  grown  cold  ;  and  if 
it  be  free  from  that  ingredient, 
scarcely  any  alteration  will  be  visi- 
ble on  the  blade ;  but,  in  the  con- 
trary case,  its  surface,  after  being 
allowed  to  cool,  will  appear  slightly 
covered  with  an  aluminous  incrus- 
tation. 

BREAD  CAKE.  To  make  a  com- 
mon bread  cake,  separate  from  the 
dough,  when  making  white  bread, 
as  much  as  is  sufficient  for  a  quar- 
tern loaf,  and  knead  well  into  it  two 
ounces  of  butter,  two  of  Lisbon  su- 
gar, and  eight  of  currants.  Warm 
the  butter  in  a  tea-cupful  of  good 
milk.  By  adding  another  ounce  of 
butter  or  sugar,  or  an  egg  or  two, 
the  cake  may  be  improved,  especi- 
ally by  putting  in  a  tea-cupful  of 
raw  cream.  It  is  best  to  bake  it  in 
a  pan,  rather  than  as  a  loaf,  the 
outside  being  less  hard. 

BREAD  CHEESECAKES.  Slice 
a  penny  white  loaf  as  thin  as  possi- 
ble, pour  over  it  a  pint  of  boiling 
cream,  and  let  it  stand  two  hours. 
Beat  up  eight  eggs,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  and  a  grated  nutmeg.  Put 
42 


in  half  a  pound  of  currants,  well 
washed  and  dried,  and  a  spoonful 
of  brandy  or  white  wine.  Bake 
them  in  pattipans,  or  raised  crusts. 

BREAD  PUDDING.  Grate  some 
white  bread,  pour  over  some  boiling 
milk,  and  cover  it  close-  When 
soaked  an  hour  or  two,  beat  it  fine, 
and  mix  with  it  two  or  three  eggs 
well  beaten.  Put  it  into  a  bason 
that  will  just  hold  it,  tie  a  floured 
cloth  over  it,  and  put  it  into  boiling 
water.  Send  it  up  with  melted  but- 
ter poured  over :  it  may  be  eaten 
with  salt  or  sugar.  Prunes,  or  French 
plums,  make  a  fine  pudding  instead 
of  raisins,  either  with  suet  or  bread 
pudding. — Another  and  richer.  Pour 
half  a  pint  of  scalding  milk,  on  half 
a  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  and  cover 
it  up  for  an  hour.  Beat  up  four  eggs. 
and  when  strained,  add  to  the  bread, 
with  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  an 
ounce  of  butter,  two  ounces  of  sugar, 
half  a  pound  of  currants,  an  ounce 
of  almonds  beaten  with  orange- 
flower  water,  half  an  ounce  of  orange, 
of  lemon,  and  of  citron.  Butter  a 
bason  that  will  exactly  hold  it,  flour 
the  cloth,  tie  it  tight  over,  and  boil 
the  pudding  an  hour. 

BREAD  SAUCE.  Boil  a  large 
onion  quartered,  with  some  black 
pepper  and  milk,  till  the  onion  is 
quite  a  pap.  Pour  the  milk  on  white 
stale-bread  grated,  and  cover  it.  In 
an  hour  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  with 
a  good  piece  of  butter  mixed  with  a 
little  flour ;  boil  the  whole  up  toge- 
ther, and  serve  with  it. 

BREAD  SOUP.  Boil  some  pieces 
of  bread  crust  in  a  quart  of  water, 
with  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Beat 
it  with  a  spoon,  and  keep  it  boiling 
till  the  bread  and  water  be  well 
mixed  :  then  season  it  with  a  little 
salt. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUD- 
DING. Spread  some  butter  on  slices 
of  bread,  and  lay  them  in  a  dish, 
with  currants  between  each  layer. 
To  make  it  rich,  add  some  sliced 


t^ 


«1 


PATENT  BREWING  MACHINE 

I 


......^ 

111 


p 


A    rill-  Jfjiihinr  triuh'  /hju.fi-.  with  the  Cover  mifed. 
Ji  JLnmt>tf  Fhf/ttiue. 

C    iyii/iilrirol  Boiler  to  l^phuvti  on  B,  with  its  Cayer  D  . 
E  Krimrtitiif  fH-rforatiui rvlinihr  to  itc />torrt/ nit/ii/i  V 
F   CtHtre  tor  t/itto. 
f  >.Cr  CiHtlvnr.  one  to  pack  lyittnti  tiie  other. 


BRE 


BRE 


citron,  orange,  or  lemon.  Pour  over 
an  unboflecl  custard  of  milk,  two  or 
three  eggs,  a  few  corns  of  pimento, 
dnd  a  very  little  ratifia,  two  hours  at 
least  before  it  is  to  be  baked,  and 
lade  it  over  to  soak  the  bread.  A 
paste  round  the  edge  makes  all  pud- 
dings look  better,  but  it  is  not  ne- 
cessary. 

BREAD  AND  RICE  PUDDING. 
Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  in 
some  milk  till  it  is  quite  soft,  put  it 
into  a  bason,  and  let  it  stand  till 
the  next  day.  Soak  some  sliced 
bread  in  cold  milk,  drain  it  off,  mash 
it  line,  and  mix  it  with  the  rice. 
Beat  up  two  eggs  with  it,  add  a  little 
salt,  and  boil  it  an  hour. 

BREAKFAST  CAKES.  Take  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  four  ounces 
of  butter,  a  spoonful  of  yeast,  and 
half  a  pint  of  warm  milk.  Rub  the 
butter  into  the  flour,  and  mix  the 
eggs,  yeast,  and  milk  together.  Put 
the  liquid  into  the  middle  of  the 
flour,  and  let  it  stand  to  rise  for  two 
hours.  Make  it  into  cakes,  let  them 
stand  to  rise  again,  and  wash  them 
over  with  skimmed  milk  before  they 
are  put  into  the  oven. 

BREAST  OF  LAMB.  Cut  off 
the  chine-bone  from  the  breast,  and 
set  it  on  to  stew  with  a  pint  of  gra- 
vy. When  the  bones  would  draw 
out,  put  it  on  the  gridiron  to  grill ; 
and  then  lay  it  in  a  dish  on  cucum- 
bers nicely  stewed. 

BREAST  OF  MUTTON.  Pare 
off  the  superfluous  fat,  and  roast  and 
serve  the  meat  with  stewed  cucum- 
bers ;  or  to  eat  cold,  covered  with 
chopped  parsley.  Or  half-boil,  and 
then  grill  it  before  the  fire  :  cover  it 
with  bread  crumbs  and  herbs,  and 
serve  with  caper  sauce.  Or  if  boned, 
take  away  a  good  deal  of  the  fat, 
and  cover  it  with  bread,  herbs,  and 
seasoning.  Thfen  roll  and  boil  it ; 
serve  with  chopped  walnuts,  or  ca- 
pers and  butter. 

BREAST  OF  VEAL.  Before 
roasting  it,  take  off  the  two  ends  to 
fry  and  t^tew,  if  the  joint  be  large. 


or  roast  the  whole  together,  and  pour 
butter  over  it.  If  any  be  left,  cut  it 
into  regular  pieces,  put  them  into  a 
stewpan,  and  pour  some  broth  over 
it.  If  no  broth,  a  little  water  will 
do  :  add  a  bunch  of  herbs,  a  blade 
or  two  of  mace,  some  pepper,  and 
an  anchovy.  Stew  till  ihe  meat  be 
tender,  thicken  with  flour  and  butter, 
and  add  a  little  ketchup.  Serve  the 
sweetbread  whole  upon  it,  which 
may  either  be  stewed  or  parboiled, 
and  then  covered  with  crumbs,  herbs, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  browned  in  a 
Dutch  oven.  The  whole  breast  may 
be  stewed  in  the  same  way,  after 
cutting  off  the  two  ends.  A  boiled 
breast  of  veal,  smothered  with  onion 
sauce,  is  also  an  excellent  dish,  if 
not  old  nor  too  fat. 

BRENTFORD  ROLLS.  Mix  with 
two  pounds  of  flour,  a  little  salt, 
two  ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  four 
ounces  of  butter,  and  two  eggs  beat- 
en with  two  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and 
about  a  pint  of  milk.  Knead  the 
dough  well,  and  set  it  to  rise  before 
the  fire.  Make  twelve  rolls,  butter 
tin  plates,  and  set  them  before  the 
fire  to  rise,  till  they  become  of  a 
proper  size,  and  bake  them  half  an 
hour. 

BREWING.  The  practice  of 
brewing  malt  liquor  is  but  seldom 
adopted  by  private  families  in  large 
towns  and  cities,  owing  probably  to 
a  want  of  conveniences  for  the  pur- 
pose, and  an  aversion  to  the  labour 
and  trouble  which  it  might  occasion. 
But  if  the  disagreeable  filthiness  at- 
tending the  process  in  large  public 
breweries  were  duly  considered,  to- 
gether with  the  generally  pernicious 
quality  of  the  beer  oft'ered  to  sale, 
as  well  as  the  additional  expense 
incurred  by  this  mode  of  procuring 
it,  no  one  who  regards  economy,  or 
the  health  and  comfort  of  his  family, 
would  be  without  home-brewed  beer, 
so  long  as  there  were  any  means  left 
of  obtaining  it.  Beer  as  strong  of 
malt  and  hops,  when  all  the  foreign 
ingredients  are  extracted,  may  be 
43 


BRE 


BRE 


manufactured  at  home  at  less  than 
one  third  of  what  it  could  cost  at 
a  public  brewery,  besides  the  satis- 
faction of  drinking,  what  is  known 
to  be  wholesome,  and  free  from  any 
deleterious  mixture.  Twelve  shil- 
lings for  malt  and  hops  will  provide 
a  kilderkin  of  beer  far  superior  to 
one  that  could  be  purchased  under 
license  for  a  pound,  while  the  yeast 
and  the  grains  are  sufficient  to  re- 
pay all  the  labour  and  expense  of 
brewing.  On  every  account,  there- 
fore, it  is  desirable  that  the  practice 
of  domestic  brewing  were  universally 
adopted.  The  health  and  comfort 
of  the  community  would  be  increas- 
ed ;  and  by  a  larger  consumption  of 
malt,  the  growth  of  barley  would  be 
extended,  and  agriculture  propor- 
tionably  benefited.  In  order  to  this 
however,  the  enormous  duty  upon 
malt  requires  to  be  diminished  or 
repealed.  The  farmer,  unable  to 
make  three  shillings  a  bushel  of  his 
barley,  is  suffering  severely  under 
this  grinding  taxation,  as  well  as  the 
consumer,  who  is  compelled  to  pay 
a  duty  of  four  shillings  and  six-pence 
for  every  bushel  that  is  converted 
into  malt. — The  best  seasons  of  the 
year  for  brewing  are  March  and  Oc- 
tober, the  weather  in  those  months 
being  generally  free  from  the  ex- 
tremes of  heat  and  cold,  which  are 
alike  injurious  to  the  process  of  fer- 
mentation. If  this  is  not  in  all  cases 
practicable,  means  should  be  used  to 
cool  the  place  where  the  liquor  is 
set  for  working  in  the  summer,  and 
of  warming  it  in  the  winter  :  other- 
wise the  beer  will  be  likely  to  turn 
sour  or  muddy.  The  beer  which  is 
brewed  in  March  should  not  be  tap- 
ped till  October,  nor  that  brewed  in 
October  till  the  following  March  ; 
taking  this  precaution,  that  families 
of  an  equal  number  all  the  year 
round,  will  drink  at  least  a  third 
more  in  summer  than  in  winter. — 
The  most  suitable  water  for  brewing 
is  soft  river  water,  which  having  had 
the  rays  of  the  sun  and  the  influence 
44 


of  the  air  upon  it,  will  more  easily 
penetrate  and  extract  the  virtues  of 
the  malt.  Hard  water  possesses  an 
astringent  quality,  which  prevents 
the  goodness  of  the  malt  from  being 
freely  communicated  to  the  liquor. 
If  two  parcels  of  beer  be  brewed  in 
all  respects  the  same,  except  in  the 
quality  of  the  water,  it  will  be  found 
that  the  beer  brewed  with  soft  river 
water  will  exceed  the  other  in 
strength  above  five  degrees,  in  the 
course  of  twelve  months'  keeping. 
Where  water  is  naturally  of  a  hard 
quality,  it  may  in  some  measure  be 
softened  by  exposing  it  to  the  action 
of  the  sun  and  air,  and  infusing  in  it 
some  pieces  of  soft  chalk.  Throwing 
into  it  a  quantity  of  bran  while  it  is 
boiling,  and  before  it  is  poured  on 
the  malt,  will  likewise  have  a  good 
effect. — Previous  to  commencing  the 
process  of  brewing,  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  ascertain  the  quantity  of 
malt  and  hops,  which  of  course  will 
be  regulated  by  the  demands  of  the 
family,  the  convenience  of  cellerage, 
and  other  circumstances.  Suppos- 
ing two  or  three  sorts  of  liquor  be 
required,  six  bushels  of  malt,  and 
about  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
hops  to  each  bushel,  will  make  half 
a  hogshead  of  ale,  half  a  hogshead 
of  table  beer,  and  the  same  of  small 
beer  ;  or  about  nine  gallons  of  each 
to  the  bushel.  But  if  in  a  smaller 
brewing,  only  two  sorts  are  required, 
or  the  whole  be  blended  info  one, 
then  eighteen  gallons  of  wholesome 
beverage  may  be  produced  at  some- 
thing less  than  three  farthings  a  pint. 
— Having  thus  adjusted  the  propor- 
tion of  malt  and  hops  to  the  quan- 
tity of  beer  to  be  brewed,  the  next 
thing  will  be  to  heat  water  sufficient 
for  the  purpose.  Meanwhile  see 
that  the  brewing  utensils  be  properly 
cleaned  and  scalded,  and  the  pen- 
staff  in  the  mash  tub  well  fixed. 
Then  put  a  quantity  of  boiling  water 
into  the  mash-tub,  in  which  it  must 
stand  till  the  greater  part  of  the 
steam  is  gone  off,  or  you  can  see 


BR£ 


BRE 


your  own  shadow  in  it.  It  will  then 
be  necessary  that  one  person  should 
pour  the  malt  gently  in,  while  ano- 
ther is  carefully  stirring  it.  A  little 
malt  should  be  reserved  to  strew 
over  the  mash  in  order  to  prevent 
evaporation,  and  then  the  tub  may 
be  covered  over  with  sacks.  If  it 
be  not  sufficient  to  contain  the  whole 
at  once,  the  mashing  must  be  re- 
peated, observing  that  the  larger  the 
quantity  that  is  mashed  at  once,  the 
longer  it  will  require  to  stand  before 
it  is  drawn  off.  The  mash  of  ale 
must  be  allowed  to  steep  three  hours, 
table  beer  one  hour,  and  small  beer 
half  an  hour  afterwards.  By  this 
mode  of  proceeding,  the  boilings 
will  regularly  succeed  each  other, 
which  will  greatly  expedite  the  busi- 
ness. In  the  course  of  mashing,  be 
careful  to  stir  it  thoroughly  from  the 
bottom,  especially  round  the  basket, 
that  there  may  be  no  adhesion,  in 
any  part  of  the  mash.  Previous  to 
running  it  off,  be  prepared  with  a 
pail  to  catch  the  first  flush,  as  that 
is  generally  thick,  and  return  it  to 
the  mash  two  or  three  times,  till  it 
run  clear  and  fine.  By  this  time  the 
copper  should  be  boiling,  and  a  con- 
venient tub  placed  close  to  the  mash- 
tub.  Put  into  it  half  the  quantity 
of  boiling  water  intended  for  draw- 
ing off  the  best  wort ;  after  which 
ihe  copper  must  be  filled  up  again, 
and  proper  attention  paid  to  the  fire. 
Meanwhile,  keep  slopping  and  wet- 
ting the  mash  with  the  hot  water  out 
of  the  tub,  in  moderate  quantities, 
every  eight  or  ten  minutes,  till  all 
the  water  is  added  to  the  mash. 
Then  let  off  the  remaining  quantity, 
which  will  be  boiling  hot,  and  this 
will  finish  the  process  for  strong 
beer.  Boil  up  the  copper  as  quick 
as  possible  for  the  second  mash, 
whether  intended  for  strong  or  small 
beer.  Empty  the  boiling  water  into 
the  tub  by  the  side  of  the  mash,  as 
in  the  former  instance,  and  renew 
the  process.  Great  care  is  required 
in  boiling  the  wort  after  it  is  drawn 


off,  and  the  hops  must  be  put  in 
with  the  first  boiling.  In  filling  the 
copper  with  the  wort,  leave  suffici- 
ent room  for  boiling,  that  there  may 
be  no  waste  in  boiling  over,  and 
make  a  good  fire  under  it.  Quick 
boiling  is  a  part  of  the  business  that 
requires  particular  attention,  and 
great  caution  must  be  observed  when 
the  liquor  begins  to  swell  in  waves 
in  the  copper.  The  furnace  door 
must  be  opened,  and  the  fire  damp- 
ed or  regulated  to  suit  the  boiling  of 
the  wort.  In  order  to  ascertain  the 
proper  time  for  boiling  the  liquor, 
lade  out  some  of  it ;  and  if  a  work- 
ing be  discovered,  and  the  hops  are 
sinking,  the  wort  is  boiled  enough. 
Long  and  slow  boiling  injures  and 
wastes  the  liquor.  As  soon  as  it  is 
sufficiently  boiled,  run  the  liquor 
through  a  cloth  or  fine  sieve  into 
some  coolers,  to  free  it  from  the 
hops,  and  to  get  a  proper  quantity 
cooled  immediately  to  set  it  to  work. 
If  the  brewhouse  be  not  sufficiently 
airy  to  cool  a  quantity  soon,  the  li- 
quor must  be  emptied  into  shallow 
tubs,  and  placed  in  a  passage  where 
there  is  a  thorough  draught  of  air, 
but  where  it  is  not  exposed  to  rain 
or  wet.  The  remainder  in  the  cop- 
per may  then  be  let  into  the  first 
cooler,  taking  care  to  attend  to  the 
hops,  and  to  make  a  clear  passage 
through  the  strainer.  The  hops 
must  be  returned  into  the  copper, 
after  having  run  off  four  or  five  pail- 
fuls  of  the  liquor  for  the  first  cool- 
ing, and  then  it  must  be  set  to  work 
in  the  following  manner.  Take  four 
quarts  of  yeast,  and  divide  half  of 
it  into  small  wooden  bowls  or  basons, 
adding  to  it  an  equal  quantity  of 
wort  nearly  cold.  As  soon  as  it  fer- 
ments to  the  top  of  the  basons,  put 
it  into  two  pails ;  and  when  that 
works  to  the  top,  distribute  it  into 
two  wide  open  tubs.  Fill  them  half 
full  with  cool  wort,  and  cover  them 
over,  till  it  comes  to  a  fine  white 
head.  This  will  be  accomplished  in 
about  three  hours,  and  then  both 
45 


BRE 


BR  E 


quantities  may  be  put  to^etherr  into 
the  working  tub,  with  the  addition 
or  as  much  wort  as  is  sufficiently 
cooled.  If  the  weather  be  mild  and 
open,  it  cannot  be  worked  too  cold. 
If  the  brewing  be  performed  in  fros- 
ty weather,  the  brewhouse  must  be 
kept  warm  ;  but  hot  wort  must  ne- 
ver be  added  to  keep  the  liquor  to  a 
blood  heat.  Attention  also  must  be 
paid  to  the  quality  of  the  yeast,  or  it 
may  spoil  all  the  beer.  If  it  has 
been  taken  from  foxed  beer,  or  such 
as  has  been  heated  by  ill  manage- 
ment in  the  working,  it  will  be^likely 
to  communicate  the  same  bad  qua- 
lity. If  the  yeast  be  flat,  and  that 
which  is  fresh  and  lively  cannot  be 
procured,  put  to  it  a  pint  of  warm 
sweetwort  of  the  first  letting  off, 
when  it  is  about  half  the  degree  of 
mi  Ik- warm.  Shake  the  vessel  that 
contains  it,  and  it  will  soon  gather 
strength,  and  be  fit  for  use. — Tun- 
ning is  the  last  and  most  simple  ope- 
ration in  the  business  of  brewing. 
The  casks  being  well  prepared,  per- 
fectly sweet  and  dry,  and  placed  on 
the  stand  ready  to  receive  the  liquor, 
first  skim  off  the  top  yeast,  then  fill 
the  casks  quite  full,  bung  them  down, 
and  leave  an  aperture  for  the  yeast 
to  work  through.  If  the  casks  stand 
on  one  end,  the  better  way  is  to 
make  a  hole  with  a  tap-borer  near 
the  summit  of  the  stave,  at  the  same 
distance  from  the  top  as  the  lower 
tap-hole  is  from  the  bottom.  This 
prevents  the  slovenliness  of  working 
the  beer  over  the  head  of  the  barrel ; 
and  the  opening  being  much  smaller 
than  the  bung-hole,  the  beer  by  be- 
ing confined  will  sooner  set  itself 
into  a  convulsive  motion,  and  work 
itself  fine,  provided  proper  atten- 
tion be  paid  to  filling  up  the  casks 

five  or  six  times  a  day. Another 

method  of  brewing,  rather  more 
simple  but  not  more  excellent  than 
the  above,  may  be  adopted  by  those 
whose  conveniences  are  more  li- 
mited. For  table  beer,  allow  three 
bushels  of  malt  to  thirty-nine  gal- 
46 


Ions  of  water,  and  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  hops.  Pour  a  third  part  of 
the  hot  water  upon  the  malt,  cover 
it  up  warm  half  an  hour,  then 
stir  up  the  mash,  and  let  it  stand 
two  hours  and  a  half  more.  Set  it 
to  drain  off  gently ;  when  dry,  add 
half  the  remaining  water,  mash,  and 
let  it  stand  half  an  hour.  Run  that 
into  another  tub,  and  pour  the  rest 
of  the  water  on  the  malt ;  stir  it  well, 
cover  it  up,  and  let  it  infuse  a  full 
hour.  Run  that  off  and  mix  all  to- 
gether. Put  the  hops  into  a  little 
hot  water  to  open  tlie  pores,  then 
put  the  hops  and  water  into  the  tub, 
run  the  wort  upon  them,  and  boil 
them  together  for  an  hour.  Strain 
the  liquor  through  a  coarse  sieve, 
and  set  it  to  cool.  If  the  whole  be 
not  cool  enough  that  day  to  add  to  it 
the  yeast,  a  pail  or  two  of  wort  may 
be  prepared,  and  a  quart  of  yeast 
added  to  it  over  night.  Before  tun-r 
ning,  all  the  wort  should  be  put  to-i" 
gether,  and  thoroughly  mixed.  When 
it  has  done  working,  paste  a  piece 
of  paper  on  the  bung-hole,  and  aftegti 
three  days  it  may  be  fastened  clos^.* 
In  less  than  a  month  the  beer  will 
be   fit  for  use.     See  Ale,    Malt, 

B£GR 

BREWING  UTENSILS.  The 
most  desirable  object  in  the  process 
of  brewing  is  the  fixing  of  the  cop- 
per, so  as  to  make  the  fire  come  di^ 
rectly  under  the  bottom  of  it.  Many 
coppers  are  injured,  and  rendered 
unserviceable,  for  want  of  proper 
attention  to  this  particular.  The 
method  adopted  by  the  most  expe- 
rienced bricklayers  is  to  divide  the 
heat  of  the  fire  by  a  stop  ;  and  if 
the  door  and  the  draft  be  in  a  direct 
line,  the  stop  must  be  erected  from 
the  middle  of  each  outline  of  the  grat- 
ing, and  parallel  with  the  centre  sides 
of  the  copper.  The  stop  is  nothing 
more  than  a  thin  wall  in  the  centre 
of  the  right  and  left  sides  of  the  cop- 
per, ascending  half  way  to  the  top 
of  it;  on  the  top  of  which  must  be 
left  a  small  cavity,  four  or  five  inches 


BRE 


BRE 


square,  for  a  draft  of  that  half  part 
of  the  fire  which  is  next  to  the  cop- 
per door,  to  pass  through,  and  then 
the  building  must  close  all  round  to 
the  finishing  at  the  top.  By  this 
method  of  fixing  the  copper,  the  heat 
will  communicate  from  the  outward 
part  of  the  fire  round  the  outward 
half  of  the  copper  through  the  ca- 
vity ;  as  also  will  the  furthest  part 
of  the  fire,  which  contracts  a  con- 
junction of  the  whole,  and  causes  the 
flame  to  slide  gently  and  equally  all 
round  the,  bottom  of  the  copper. 
Considerable  advantages  result  from 
this  position  of  the  copper.  If  the 
draught  under  it  were  suffered  at 
once  to  ascend,  without  being  thus 
divided,  the  hops  would  be  scorched 
in  the  boiling,  and  liable  to  stick  to 
the  sides,  which  would  considerably 
injure  the  flavour  of  the  liquor,  un- 
less kept  continually  stirring.  It 
will  also  save  the  consumption  of 
fuel,  and  preserve  the  copper  much 
longer  than  any  other  method,  as 
there  will  be  no  difl^iculty  in  boiling 
half  a  copper  full  at  a  time  without 
doing  it  any  injury. — The  next  arti- 
cle of  consideration  in  this  case  is 
the  Mash-tub.  This  should  be  pro- 
portioned to  the  size  of  the  ^-opper, 
and  the  quantity  of  beer  intended  to 
be  brewed.  The  grains  should  not 
be  kept  in  the  tub  any  longer  than 
the  day  after  brewing,  as  in  hot  wea- 
ther especially  the  grains  begin  to 
turn  sour  as  soon  as  they  are  cold  ; 
and  if  there  be  any  sour  scent  in  the 
brewhouse  at  the  time  the  liquor  is 
tunned,  it  will  be  apt  to  injure  the 
flavour  of  the  beer. — Tubs  and  Cool- 
ers require  to  be  kept  perfectly  sweet 
and  clean,  and  should  not  be  used 
for  any  other  purpose.  In  small 
houses,  where  many  vessels  are  cum- 
bersome and  inconvenient,  it  is  too 
common  to  use  the  same  tubs  for 
both  washing  and  brewing  ;  but  this 
ought  not  to  be  done  where  it  can  be 
avoided  ;  and  where  it  is  unavoida- 
ble, the  utmost  care  is  necessary  to 
give  them  a  double  washing,  scour- 


ing, and  scalding.  Coolers  also  re* 
quire  considerable  care,  or  by  th§ 
slightest  taint  they  will  soon  con* 
tract  a  disagreeable  flavour.  TU\$ 
often  proceeds  from  wet  having  in- 
fused itself  into  the  wood,  it  being 
apt  to  lodge  in  the  crevices  of  old 
vessels,  and  even  infect  them  to  such 
a  degree,  that  it  cannot  be  removed, 
even  after  several  washings  and 
scaldings.  One  cause  incidental  to 
this  evil  is,  using  the  brewhouse  for 
the  purposes  oT  washing,  which 
ought  never  to  be  permitted,  where 
any  other  convenience  can  be  had  ; 
for  nothing  can  be  more  injurious 
than  the  remains  of  dirty  suds,  left 
in  vessels  intended  for  brewing  only. 
Nor  should  water  be  suffered  to 
stand  too  long  in  the  coolers,  as  it 
will  soak  into  them,  and  soon  turn 
putrid,  when  the  stench  will  enter 
the  wood,  and  render  them  almost 
incurable.  More  beer  is  spoiled  for 
want  of  attention  to  these  niceties 
than  can  well  be  imagined,  and  the 
real  cause  is  seldom  known  or  sus- 
pected ;  but  in  some  families,  after 
all  the  care  that  is  taken  in  the  ma- 
nufacture of  the  article,  the  beer  is 
never  palatable  or  wholesome.- — 
Barrels  should  be  well  cleaned  with 
boiling  water  ;  and  if  the  bung-hole 
will  admit,  they  should  be  scrubbed 
inside  with  a  hard  brush.  If  they 
have  acquired  a  musty  scent,  take 
out  the  heads,  and  let  them  be  well 
scrubbed  with  sand  and  fuller's  earth. 
Then  put  in  the  head  again,  and 
scald  it  well ;  throw  in  a  piece  of 
unslaked  lime,  and  close  up  the  bung. 
When  the  cask  has  stood  some  time, 
rinse  it  well  with  cold  water,  and  it 
will  then  be  fit  for  use.  New  casks 
likewise  require  attention,  for  they 
are  apt  to  give  the  liquor  a  bad 
taste,  if  they  be  not  well  scalded  and 
seasoned  several  days  successively 
before  they  are  used  ;  and  old  casks 
are  apt  to  grow  musty,  if  they  stand 
any  time  out  of  use.  To  prevent 
this,  a  cork  should  be  put  into  every 
one  of  them  as  soon  as  the  cock  or 
47 


BRE 


BRE 


fosset  is  taken  out ;  the  vent  and  the 
bung-hole  must  also  be  well  closed. 
The  best  way  to  season  new  casks 
is  to  boil  two  pecks  of  bran  or  malt 
dust  in  a  copper  of  water,  and  pour 
it  in  hot ;  then  stop  it  up  close,  and 
let  it  stand  two  days.  When  the 
cask  is  washed  and  dried,  it  will  be 
fit  for  use. 

BREWING  MACHINE.  Where 
a  family  usually  consume  ten  gal- 
lons of  beer,  or  upwards,  in  a  week, 
there  is  a  Brewing  Machine  lately 
invented,  which  will  be  found  singu- 
larly convenient  and  advantageous, 
and  comparatively  of  little  expense. 
The  use  of  it  in  brewing  curtails  the 
labour,  shortens  the  time  in  which 
the  operation  may  be  performed, 
greatly  diminishes  the  quantity  of 
fuel,  and  may  be  placed  within  very 
narrow  limits,  in  the  house  of  any 
tradesman  in  the  most  crowded  city. 
Eighteen  gallons  of  good  beer  may 
be  brewed  with  this  machine  in  the 
course  of  six  hours,  or  a  larger  quan- 
tity with  a  machine  of  proportionate 
dimensions,  in  the  same  space  of 
time.  The  process  is  so  simple, 
that  it  may  be  comprehended  by 
any  person  of  ordinary  capacity, 
and  once  seeing  the  operation  per- 
formed will  be  sufficient.  In  the 
common  mode  of  brewing,  the  prin- 
cipal difficulty  consists  in  ascertain- 
ing the  degrees  of  heat  necessary  to 
the  production  of  good  beer,  with- 
out the  use  of  a  thermometer ;  but 
in  the  use  of  this  machine,  this  diffi- 
culty is  completely  obviated. — The 
machine  complete  is  represented  by 
figure  A ;  and  B,  C,  D,  E,  F,  repre- 
sent its  several  parts.  B  is  the 
bottom,  made  of  strong  sheet-iron, 
standing  upon  three  legs.  The  hol- 
low part  of  it  contains  the  fire,  put 
in  at  a  door,  the  latch  of  which  ap- 
pears in  front.  The  tube  which 
projects  upwards,  is  a  stove  pipe  to 
carry  off  the  smoke  ;  and  the  cir- 
cular pan  that  is  seen  between  the 
legs,  is  a  receptacle  for  the  ashes  or 
cinders  that  fall  down  through  the 
48 


grate  above.  C  is  a  sheet-iron  ves- 
sel, tinned  on  the  inside,  the  bottom 
of  which  fits  into  the  top  of  B  ;  and 
the  cock  in  C  is  to  let  off  the  wort, 
as  will  be  seen  hereafter.  D  is  the 
lid  of  this  vessel.  E  is  made  of 
sheet-iron,  tinned  inside  and  out, 
and  full  of  holes  to  act  as  a  strainer. 
It  is  to  hold  the  malt  first,  and  the 
hops  afterwards ;  it  goes  into  C,  as 
may  be  seen  in  figure  A.  In  the 
middle  of  E  is  a  round  space,  F, 
made  of  the  same  metal,  and  rising 
up  from  the  bottom,  having  itself 
no  bottom.  It  has  holes  in  it  all 
the  way  up,  like  the  outer  surface  of 
E. — In  preparing  for  brewing,  the 
machine  is  put  together  as  in  A,  ex- 
cept placing  on  the  lid.  The  first 
thing  is  to  put  the  malt,  coarsely 
ground,  into  E,  and  no  part  into  F, 
or  into  the  circular  space  between 
C  and  E  ;  otherwise  E  cannot  act  as 
a  strainer,  when  the  liquor  is  drawn 
off;  and  in  this  consists  its  princi- 
pal use.  Having  put  in  the  malt, 
then  add  the  water  which  of  course 
flows  into  any  part  of  the  vessel  C. 
Stir  the  malt  well  with  a  stick,  or 
with  something  that  will  separate  it 
completely,  so  that  no  adhesion  may 
be  formed  by  the  flour  of  the  malt. 
This  is  very  apt  to  be  the  case  in 
the  common  mode  of  brewing,  wheii' 
water  is  poured  hot  upon  the  malt ; 
but  here  the  water  is  applied  in  a  cold 
state,  so  that  there  is  little  trouble 
in  separating  the  malt  completely  in 
the  water.  If  the  small  machine  be 
used,  which  is  adapted  to  a  bushel 
of  malt,  and  the  beer  is  to  be  fully 
equal  in  strength  to  London  porter, 
then  eighteen  gallons  to  the  bushel 
may  be  considered  as  the  general 
estimate  ;  and  for  this  purpose  the 
first  mash  is  to  receive  twelve  gal- 
lons of  cold  soft  water,  which  will 
produce  nine  gallons  of  wort.  Hav- 
ing stirred  the  malt  very  carefully, 
light  the  fire  under  it,  and  get  the 
liquor  quickly  to  170  or  180  degrees 
of  heat.  This  may  be  ascertained 
by  lifting  off"  the  lid,  and   dipping 


BRE 


BRE 


the  thermometer  from  tune  to  time 
into  the  centre  F,  and  keeping  it 
there  a  minute  to  give  the  quicksil- 
ver time  to  rise.  While  the  mash  is 
coming  to  this  heat,  stir  the  malt 
well  three  or  four  times.  When  the 
liquor  has  acquired  its  proper  heat, 
put  out  the  fire,  and  cover  the  whole 
of  the  machine  with  sacks,  or  some- 
thing that  will  exclude  the  external 
air.  In  this  state  the  mash  remains 
for  two  hours  :  the  cock  is  then 
turned,  and  nine  gallons  of  wort  will 
be  drained  off.  Put  the  wort  into 
a  tub  of  some  sort,  and  keep  it  warm. 
Then  put  into  the  machine  twelve 
gallons  more  of  water,  rekindle  the 
fire,  and  bring  the  heat  to  170  de- 
grees as  soon  as  possible  ;  when 
this  is  done,  extinguish  the  fire,  and 
let  the  mash  now  stand  an  hour. 
Draw  off  the  second  wort ;  and  if 
only  one  sort  of  beer  is  wanted,  add 
it  to  the  first  quantity.  Now  take 
out  the  grains,  lift  out  E,  clean  it 
well,  and  also  the  inside  of  C.  Re- 
place E,  put  the  hops  into  it,  and 
the  whole  of  the  wort  into  the  ma- 
chine. Cover  it  with  the  lid,  light 
the  fire  a  third  time,  and  bring  the 
liquor  to  a  boil  as  soon  as  possible. 
Let  it  boil  a  full  hour  with  the  lid 
off,  and  boil  briskly  all  the  time. 
The  use  of  the  centre  F  will  now 
appear ;  for  the  machine  being  near- 
ly full  to  the  brim,  the  bubbling 
takes  place  in  the  centre  F  only, 
where  there  are  no  hops.  There  is  a 
great  boiling  over  in  this  centre,  but 
the  liquor  sent  up  falls  into  E,  and 
so  there  is  no  boiling  over  of  C. 
When  the  full  hour  of  brisk  boiling 
has  expired,  put  out  the  fire,  draw 
off  the  liquor,  leaving  the  hops  of 
course  in  E.  The  Hquor  is  now  to 
go  into  shallow  coolers  ;  and  when 
the  heat  is  reduced  to  70  degrees, 
lake  out  about  a  gallon  of  the  liquor, 
and  mix  it  with  half  a  pint  of  good 
yeast.  Distribute  it  equally  among 
the  different  parcels  of  wort,  after- 
wards mix  the  whole  together,  and 
(No.  3.) 


leave  the  liquor  till  it  comes  down  to 
about  sixty  degrees  of  heat.  The 
next  removal  is  into  the  tun-tub,  in 
which  capacity  C,  without  the  addi- 
tion of  E,  will  serve  very  well. 
While  the  liquor  is  cooling,  remove 
the  spent  hops  from  E,  the  stove 
pipe  from  B,  the  ash-receiver  from 
the  bottom.  The  machine  remain- 
ing now  as  a  tun-tub,  draw  off  the 
liquor  as  soon  as  it  is  down  to  60 
degrees ;  or  take  it  out  of  the  cool- 
ers, pour  it  into  the  tun-tub,  and  put 
on  the  lid.  If  the  weather  be  very 
cold,  or  the  tun-tub  be  in  a  cold 
place,  cover  it  with  something  to 
keep  it  warm.  Here  the  fermenta- 
tion takes  place,  sometimes  sooner 
and  sometimes  later ;  but  it  gene- 
rally shows  itself  by  a  head  begin- 
ning to  rise  in  about  eight  or  ten 
hours  ;  and  at  the  end  of  eight  and 
forty  hours  the  head  assumes  a 
brownish  appearance,  and  is  cover- 
ed with  yeast  instead  of  froth.  The 
beer  is  then  to  be  tunned  into  well- 
seasoned  casks,  sweet  and  sound,  or 
all  the  expense  and  labour  will  be 
lost.  The  cask  being  fixed  on  the 
stand  in  the  cellar,  and  the  beer 
ready,  skim  off  the  yeast,  and  keep 
it  in  a  deep  earthen  vessel.  Draw 
off  the  beer  into  a  pail,  and  with  the 
help  of  a  wooden  funnel  fill  the  cask 
quite  full.  The  beer  will  now  begin  to 
ferment  again,  and  must  be  allowed 
to  discharge  itself  from  the  bung- 
hole.  When  the  working  has  ceas- 
ed, the  cask  is  again  filled  up  with 
the  surplus  beer  ;  and  a  handful  of 
fresh  hops  being  added,  the  bung  is 
finally  closed  down.  If  the  whole 
process  has  been  properly  attended 
to,  such  a  cask  of  beer  will  be  clear 
in  a  week ;  and  as  soon  as  clear  it 
may  be  tapped.  Small  beer  may 
be  tapped  in  less  time.  On  a  larger 
scale,  or  with  casks  of  a  smaller 
size,  two  sorts  may  be  made,  ale 
and  small  beer,  taking  the  first  wort 
for  the  former,  and  the  second  for 
the  latter. — The  advantages  attend- 
H  49 


BRE 


BRI 


ing  the  Patent   Machine    are  very 
obvious ;    for  though    the   process 
appears  to  be  minute,  it  is  easily 
conducted,    g,nd  but   little   time  is 
required  for  the  purpose.     In  the 
common   method   of   brewing,    the 
water  must  be  carried  from  the  cop- 
per to  the  mash-tub,  while  the  ma- 
chine  serves  for  both  purposes  at 
once.      Witli  the  common  utensils 
the     process    is    necessarily    much 
slower,   and  the   fuel  consumed  is 
nearly  ten  times  as  much ;  but  the 
great  convenience  of  all  is  the  little 
room    required   and    the    place  of 
brewing.     In  the  common  way  there 
is  wanted  a  copper  fixed  in  brick- 
work, and  for  a  family  of  any  consi- 
derable size  a  brewhouse  is   indis- 
pensable.     On   the    contrary,    the 
machine  is  set  up  opposite  any  fire 
place,  and  the  pipe  enters  the  chim- 
ney, or  is  put  into  the  fire  place. 
There  is  no  boiling  over,  no  slopping 
about ;    and  the  operation  may  be 
performed  upon  a  boarded  floor,  as 
well  as  upon  a  brick  or  stone  floor. 
If  there  be  no  fire  place  in  the  room, 
the  pipe  can  be  projected  through 
an  opening  in  the  window,  or  through 
flrthe  outside  of  any  sort  of  building, 
not  liable  to  suffer  from  the  heat  of 
the  pipe.     Even  a  garden  walk,  a 
court,  or  open  field  will  answer  the 
purpose,  provided  there  be  no  rain, 
and  the  mash-tub  be  kept  suffici- 
ently warm.     When  the  brewing  is 
finished,  the  machine  should  be  well 
scalded,  rubbed  dry,  and  kept  in  a 
dry  place.     The  two  coolers,  G  G, 
placed  on  different  casks,  have  no 
necessary  connection  with  the  ma- 
chine.    They  are  made  of  wood  or 
cast-iron,  of  a  size  to  fit  one  within 
another  to  save  room.     The  Patent 
Machine  is  sold   by  Messrs.  Need- 
ham  and  Co.  202,  Piccadilly,  Lon- 
don. The  price  of  one  for  brewing  a 
bushel  of  malt  is  £8,  for  tw*o  bush- 
els £13,  for  three  £18,  for  four  £24, 
for  five   £30,  and  for  six  £33.     If 
the  article  be  thought  expensive,  a 
50 


few  neighbouring  families  might 
unite  in  the  purchase,  and  the  mo- 
ney would  very  soon  be  more  than 
saved  in  the  economy  of  brewing. 

BRIDE  CAKE.  Mix  together  a 
pound  of  dried  flour,  two  drams  of 
powdered  mace,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  powdered  loaf  sugar.  Add 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream,  and 
half  a  pound  of  melted  butter ;  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  yeast,  five  eggs, 
with  half  of  the  whites  beaten  up 
with  the  yolks,  and  a  gill  of  rose 
water.  Having  warmed  the  butter 
and  cream,  mix  them  together,  and 
set  the  whole  to  rise  before  the  fire. 
Pick  and  clean  half  a  pound  of  cur- 
rants, put  them  in  warm  and  well 
dried. 

BRIGHT  BARS  of  polished  stoves, 
may  be  restored  to  their  proper  lus- 
tre, by  rubbing  them  well  with  some 
of  the  following  mixture  on  a  piece 
of  broad-cloth.  Boil  slowly  one 
pound  of  soft  soap  in  two  quarts  of 
water,  till  reduced  to  one.  Of  this 
jelly  take  three  or  four  spoonfuls, 
and  mix  it  to  a  consistence  with  the 
addition  of  emery.  When  the  black 
is  removed,  wipe  them  clean,  and 
polish  with  glass,  not  sand-paper. 

BRISKET  OF  BEEF,  if  intended 
to  be  stewed,  should  have  that  part 
of  it  put  into  a  stewpot  which  has 
the  hard  fat  upon  it,  with  a  small 
quantity  of  water.  Let  it  boil  up, 
and  skim  it  well ;  then  add  carrots, 
turnips,  onions,  celery,  and  a  few 
pepper  corns.  Stew  it  till  it  is  quite 
tender ;  then  take  out  the  fat  bones, 
and  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  soup. 
Either  serve  that  and  the  meat  in 
a  tureen,  or  the  soup  alone,  and  the 
meat  on  a  dish,  garnished  with  ve- 
getables. The  following  sauce  with 
the  beef,  will  be  found  to  be  very 
excellent. — Take  half  a  pint  of  the 
soup,  and  mix  it  with  a  spoonful  of 
ketchup,  a  glass  of  port  wine,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  little 
flour  and  salt,  and  a  bit  of  butter. 
Boil  all  together  a  few  minutes,  and 


BRO 


BRO 


pour  it  round  the  meat.  Chop  ca-^ 
pers,  walnuts,  red  cabbage,  pickled 
cucumbers,  and  chives  or  parsley, 
small,  and  place  them  in  separate 
heaps  over  it. 

BROAD  BEANS.  Boil  them  ten- 
der, with  a  bunch  of  parsley,  which 
must  afterwards  be  chopped  and 
put  into  melted  butter,  to  serve  with 
them.  Bacon  or  pickled  pork  is 
usually  boiled  with  the  beans,  but 
the  meat  will  be  of  a  better  colour,  if 
boiled  separately. 

BROCOLI.  To  dress  brocoli, 
cut  the  heads  with  short  stalks,  and 
pare  off  the  tough  skin.  Tie  the 
small  shoots  into  bunches,  and  boil 
them  a  shorter  time  than  the  heads. 
A  little  salt  should  be  put  into  the 
water.  Serve  them  up  with  or  with- 
out toast. 

BROILING.  Cleanliness  is  ex- 
tremely necessary  in  this  mode  of 
cookery ;  and  for  this  purpose  the 
gridiron,  which  is  too  frequently 
neglected,  ought  to  be  carefully  at- 
tended to,  keeping  it  perfectly  clean 
between  the  bars,  and  bright  on  the 
top.  When  hot,  wipe  it  well  with  a 
linen  cloth ;  and  before  using  it,  rub 
the  bars  with  mutton  suet,  to  pre- 
vent the  meat  being  marked  by  the 
gridiron.  The  bars  should  be  made 
with  a  small  gutter  in  them  to  carry 
off  the  gravy  into  a  trough  in  front, 
to  prevent  the  fat  from  dropping  into 
the  fire  and  making  a  smoke,  which 
will  spoil  the  flavour  of  the  meat. 
Upright  gridirons  are  therefore  the 
best,  as  they  can  be  set  before  the 
fire,  without  fear  of  smoke,  and  the 
gravy  is  preserved  in  the  trough  un- 
der them.  A  brisk  and  clear  fire  is 
also  indispensabb,  that  the  bars  of 
the  gridiron  may  all  be  hot  through 
before  any  thing  be  laid  upon  them, 
yet  not  so  as  to  burn  the  meat,  but 
to  give  it  that  colour  and  flavour 
which  constitute  the  perfection  of 
this  mode  of  cooking.  Never  hasten 
any  thing  that  is  broiling,  lest  it  be 
smoked  and   spoiled ;  but  the  mo- 


ment it  is  done,  send  it  up  as  hot  as 
possible. 

BROILED  COD.  Cut  the  fish  in 
thick  slices,  dry  and  flour  it  well ; 
rub  the  gridiron  with  chalk,  set  it  on 
a  clear  fire,  and  lay  on  the  slices  of 
cod.  Keep  them  high  from  the  fire, 
turn  them  often,  till  they  are  quite 
done,  and  of  a  fine  brown.  Take 
them  up  carefully  without  breaking, 
and  serve  with  lobster  or  shrimp 
sauce. 

BROILED  EELS.  Skin  and  clean 
a  large  eel,  cut  it  in  pieces  and  broil 
it  slowly  over  a  good  fire.  Dust  it 
well  with  dried  parsley,  and  serve 
it  up  with  melted  butter. 

BROILED  FOWL.  Cut  a  large 
fowl  into  four  quarters,  put  them  on 
a  bird-spit,  and  tie  that  on  another 
spit,  and  half  roast.  Or  half  roast 
the  whole  fowl,  and  finish  it  on  the 
gridiron,  which  will  make  it  less  dry 
than  if  wholly  broiled.  Another 
way  is  to  split  the  fowl  down  the 
back,  pepper,  salt,  and  broil  it,  and 
serve  with  mushroom  sauce. 

BROILED  HERRINGS.  Flour 
them  first,  broil  them  of  a  good  co- 
lour, and  serve  with  plain  butter  for 
sauce. 

BROILED  PIGEONS.  After 
cleaning,  split  the  backs,  pepper 
and  salt  them,  and  broil  them  very 
nicely.  Pour  over  t'hem  either  stew- 
ed or  pickled  mushroom's  in  melted 
butter,  and  serve  them  up  as  hot  as 
possible. 

BROILED  SALMON.  Cut  slices 
an  inch  thick,  and  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt.  Lay  each  slice  in  half 
a  sheet  of  white  paper,  well  butter- 
ed ;  twist  the  ends  of  the  paper,  and 
broil  the  slices  over  a  slow  fire  six 
or  eight  minutes.  Serve  them  in  the 
paper,  with  anchovy  sauce. 

BROKEN  CHINA.  To  repair 
any  article  of  this  description,  beat 
some  lime  into  the  finest  powder, 
and  sift  it  through  muslin.  Tie  sqme 
of  it  into  a  thin  muslin,  put  on  the 
edges  of  the  broken  china  some 
61 


BRO 


BUG 


white  of  an  ego;,  and  dust  on  a  little 
lime  as  quickly  as  possible  ;  but  be 
careful  to  unite  the  broken  parts 
very  exactly. 

BROTH.  A  very  nourishing  kind 
of  broth  for  weakly  persons  may  be 
made  as  follows.  Boil  two  pounds 
of  loin  of  mutton,  with  a  large  hand- 
ful of  chervil,  in  two  quarts  of  water, 
till  reduced  to  one.  Any  other  herb 
or  roots  may  be  added.  Remove 
part  of  the  fat,  and  take  half  a  pint 
three  or  four  times  a  day.  If  a  broth 
is  wanted  to  be  made  quickly,  take 
a  bone  or  two  of  a  neck  or  loin  of 
mutton,  pare  off  the  fat  and  the  skin, 
set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  small  tin  sauce- 
pan that  has  a  cover,  with  three 
quarters  of  a  pint  of  water,  the  meat 
being  first  beaten,  and  cut  in  thin 
bits.  Put  in  a  bit  of  thyme  and 
parsley,  and  if  approved,  a  slice  of 
onion.  Let  it  boil  very  quick,  skim 
it  nicely ;  take  off  the  cover,  if  likely 
to  be  too  weak  ;  otherwise  keep  it 
covered.  Half  an  hour  is  sufficient 
for  the  whole  process. 

BROWN  GRAVY.  Cover  the 
bottom  of  a  stewpan  with  lean  veal 
an  inch  thick,  overlay  it  with  slices 
ctf  undressed  gammon,  two  or  three 
onions,  two  or  three  bay  leaves,  some 
sweet  herbs,  two  blades  of  mace, 
and  three  cloves.  Cover  the  stew- 
pan,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire ;  but 
when  the  juices  come  out,  let  the 
fire  be  a  little  quicker.  When  the 
meat  is  of  a  fine  brown,  fill  the  pan 
with  good  beef-broth,  boil  and  skim 
it,  then  simmer  it  an  hour.  Add  a 
little  water,  thickened  with  flour ; 
boil  it  half  an  hour,  and  strain  it. 
Gravy  thus  made  will  keep  a  week. 

BROWN  BREAD  ICE.  Grate 
some  brown  bread  as  fine  as  possi- 
ble, soak  a  small  proportion  in  cream 
two  or  three  hours,  sweeten  and  ice 
it. 

BROWN    BREAD    PUDDING. 

Half  a  pound  of  stale  brown  bread 

grated,   half  a  pound  of  currants, 

ditto  of  shred  suet,  sugar  and  nut- 

52 


meg.  Mix  it  up  with  four  eggs,  a 
spoonful  of  brandy,  and  twice  as 
much  cream.  Boil  it  in  a  cloth  or 
bason  of  proper  size  three  or  four 
hours. 

BROWNING.  Powder  four  oun- 
ces of  double-refined  sugar,  put  it 
into  a  very  nice  iron  fryingpan,  with 
one  ounce  of  fresh  butter.  Mix  it 
well  over  a  clear  fire ;  and  when  it 
begins  to  frotb,  hold  it  up  higher : 
when  of  a  very  fine  dark  brown, 
pour  in  a  small  quantity  of  a  pint  of 
port,  and  the  whole  by  very  slow 
degrees,  stirring  it  all  the  time.  Put 
to  the  above  half  an  ounce  of  Jamai- 
ca, and  the  same  of  black  pepper, 
six  cloves  of  shalots  peeled,  three 
blades  of  mace  bruised,  three  spoon- 
fuls of  mushroom  and  the  same  of 
walnut  ketchup,  some  salt,  and  the 
finely-pared  rind  of  a  lemon.  Boil 
gently  fifteen  minutes,  pour  it  into 
a  bason  till  cold,  take  off  the  scum, 
and  bottle  it  for  use.  This  article 
is  intended  to  colour  and  flavour 
made-up  dishes. 

BRUISES.  When  the  contusion 
is  slight,  fomentations  of  warm  vi- 
negar and  water,  frequently  applied, 
will  generally  relieve  it.  Cataplasms 
of  fresh  cow-dung  applied  to  bruises, 
occasioned  by  violent  blows  or  falls, 
will  seldom  fail  to  have  a  good  ef- 
fect. Nothing  however  is  more  cer- 
tainly efficacious  than  a  porter  plas-, 
ter  immediately  applied  to  the  part 
affected.  Boil  some  porter  in  an 
earthen  vessel  over  a  slow  fire  till 
it'be  well  thickened  ;  and  when  cold 
spread  it  on  a  piece  of  leather  to 
form  the  intended  plaster. 

BUBBLE  AND  SQUEAK.  Boil, 
chop  and  fry  some  cabbage,  with  a 
little  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Lay 
on  it  slices  of  underdone  beef,  light- 
ly fried. 

BUGS.  Dip  a  sponge  or  brush 
into  a  strong  solution  of  vitriol,  and 
rub  it  on  the  bedstead,  or  in  the 
places  where  these  vermin  harbour, 
and  it  will  destroy  both  them  and 


BUL 


BUR 


their  nits.  If  the  bugs  appear  af- 
ter once  using  it,  the  application 
must  be  repeated,  and  some  of  the 
liquid  poured  into  the  joints  and 
holes  of  the  bedstead  and  head- 
board. Beds  that  have  much  wood- 
work require  to  be  taken  down  and 
well  examined,  before  they  can  be 
thoroughly  cleared  of  these  vermin, 
and  the  mixture  should  be  rubbed 
into  all  the  joints  and  crevices  with 
a  painter's  brush.  It  should  also 
be  applied  to  the  walls  of  the  room 
to  insure  success ;  and  if  mixed  with 
a  little  lime,  it  will  produce  a  lively 
yellow.  The  boiling  of  any  kind  of 
woodwork  or  household  furniture  in 
an  iron  cauldron,  with  a  solution  of 
vitriol,  will  prevent  the  breeding  of 
bugs,  and  preserve  it  from  rotten- 
ness and  decay.  Sulphur  made  into 
a  paste,  or  arsenic  dissolved  in  wa- 
ter, and  applied  in  the  same  man- 
ner, will  also  be  found  an  effectual 
remedy  for  the  bugs.  But  if  these 
do  not  completely  succeed,  take  half 
a  pint  of  the  highest  rectified  spirits 
of  wine,  and  half  a  pint  of  spirits  of 
turpentine  ;  dissolve  in  this  mixture 
half  an  ounce  of  camphor,  and 
shake  them  well  together.  Dust  the 
bed  or  the  furniture,  dip  a  sponge 
or  brush  into  the  mixture,  wet  them 
all  over,  and  pour  some  of  the  liquid 
into  the  holes  and  crevices.  If  any 
should  afterwards  appear,  wet  the 
lacings  of  the  bed,  the  foldings  of 
the  curtains  near  the  rings,  and  other 
parts  where  it  is  at  all  likely  the 
bugs  may  nestle  and  breed,  and  it 
will  not  fail  to  destroy  them.  The 
smell  of  this  mixture  is  not  unwhole- 
some, and  may  be  applied  to  the 
finest  damask  bed  without  any  fear 
of  soiling  it.  It  should  be  well  shak- 
ed  together,  but  never  used  by  can- 
dle-light, for  fear  of  its  taking  fire. 
BULLACE  CHEESE.  To  every 
quart  of  full  ripe  bullace,  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar 
finely  powdered.  Put  them  into  a 
pot,  and  bake  them  in  a  moderate 
oven  till  they  are  soft.     Rub  thorn 


through  a  hair  sieve ;  to  every  pound 
of  pulp  add  half  a  pound  of  loaf  su- 
gar powdered,  and  in  the  meantime 
keep  it  stirring.  Pour  the  pulp  into 
preserving  pots,  tie  brandy  paper 
over  ;  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 
When  it  has  stood  a  few  months,  it 
will  cut  out  very  bright  and  fine. 

BUNS.  To  make  a  good  plain 
bun,  that  may  be  eaten  with  or  with- 
out toasting  and  butter,  rub  four 
ounces  of  butter  into  two  pounds  of 
flour,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  a  nut- 
meg, a  few  Jamaica  peppers,  and  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  caraways.  Put 
a  spoonful  or  two  of  cream  into  a 
cup  of  yeast,  and  as  much  good  milk 
as  will  make  the  above  into  a  light 
paste.  Set  it  to  rise  by  the  fire  till 
the  oven  be  ready,  and  bake  the  buns 
quickly  on  tins. — To  make  some  of 
a  richer  sort,  mix  one  pound  and  a 
half  of  dried  flour  with  half  a  pound 
of  sugar.  Melt  eighteen  ounces  of 
butter  in  a  little  warm  water,  add 
six  spoonfuls  of  rose-water,  and 
knead  the  above  into  a  light  dough, 
with  half  a  pint  of  yeast.  Then  mix 
in  five  ounces  of  caraway  comfits, 
and  put  some  on  them. 

BURNS.  In  slight  cases,  the 
juice  of  onions,  a  little  ink  or  brandy 
rubbed  immediately  on  the  part  af- 
fected, will  prevent  blisters.  The 
juice  of  burdock,  mixed  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  olive  oil,  will  make 
a  good  ointment  for  the  purpose, 
and  the  fresh  leaves  of  that  plant 
may  also  be  applied  as  a  kind  of 
plaster.  Housleek  used  by  itself, 
or  mixed  with  cream,  will  affbrd 
quick  relief  in  external  inflamma- 
tions. \  little  spirit  of  turpentine, 
or  linseed  oil,  mixed  with  lime  wa- 
ter, if  kept  constantly  to  the  part 
will  remove  the  pain.  But  warm 
vinegar  and  water,  frequently  ap- 
plied with  a  woollen  cloth,  is  most 
to  be  depended  on  in  these  cases. 

BURNT  CREAM.     Boil  a  pint 

of  cream  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon, 

and  some  lemon  peel.     Take  it  off 

the  fire,  and  pour  it  very  slowlv  into 

63 


BUT 


BUT 


the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  stirring  it  tiil 
half  cold.  Sweeten  it,  take  out  the 
spice,  and  pour  it  into  a  dish.  When 
cold,  strew  over  it  some  white 
pounded  sugar,  and  brown  it  with 
a  salamander.  Or,  make  a  rich  cus- 
tard without  sugar,  and  boil  in  it 
some  lemon  peel.  When  cold,  sift 
over  it  plenty  of  white  sugar,  and 
brown  the  top  with  a  salamander. 

BUTTER.  No  one  article  of 
family  consumption  is  of  greater 
consequence  than  butter  of  a  supe- 
rior quality,  and  no  one  requires 
more  care  and  management.  It 
possesses  various  degrees  of  good- 
ness, according  to  the  food  on  which 
the  cows  are  pastured,  and  the  man- 
ner in  which  the  dairy  is  conducted  ; 
but  its  sweetness  is  not  affected  by 
the  cream  being  turned,  of  which  it 
is  made.  When  cows  are  in  turnips, 
or  eat  cabbages,  the  taste  is  strong 
and  disagreeable ;  and  to  remedy 
this,  the  following  methods  have 
been  tried  with  advantage.  When 
the  milk  is  strained  into  the  pans, 
put  to  every  six  gallons  one  gallon 
of  boiling  water.  Or  dissolve  one 
ounce  of  nitre  in  a  pint  of  spring 
water,  and  put  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
to  every  fifteen  gallons  of  milk.  Or, 
in  churning,  keep  back  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  sour  cream,  and  put  it  into 
a  well-scalded  pot,  into  which  the 
next  cream  is  to  be  gathered.  Stir 
that  well,  and  do  so  with  every  fresh 
addition. — ^To  make  Butter,  skim 
the  milk  in  the  summer,  when  the 
sun  has  not  heated  the  dairy.  At 
that  season  it  should  stand  for  but- 
ter twenty-four  hours  without  skim- 
ming, and  forty-eight  in  winter. 
Deposit  the  cream-pot  in  a  very  cold 
cellar,  unless  the  dairy  itself  is  suf- 
ficiently cold.  If  you  cannot  churn 
daily,  shift  the  cream  into  scalded 
fresh  pots  ;  but  never  omit  churning 
twice  a  week.  If  possible,  place 
the  churn  in  a  thorough  air  ;  and  if 
not  a  barrel  one,  set  it  in  a  tub  of 
water  two  feet  deep,  which  will  give 
firmness  to  the  butter.  When  the 
54 


butter  is  come,  pour  off  the  butter-^ 
milk,  and  put  the  butter  into  a  fresh 
scalded  pan,  or  tubs,  which  have 
afterwards  been  in  cold  water.  Pour 
water  on  it,  and  let  it  lie  to  acquire 
some  hardness  before  it  is  worked  ; 
then  change  the  water,  and  beat  it 
with  flat  boards  so  perfectly,  that 
not  the  least  taste  of  buttermilk  re- 
main, and  that  the  water  which 
must  be  often  changed,  shall  be 
quite  clear.  Then  work  some  salt 
into  it,  weigh,  and  make  it  into 
forms  ;  throw  them  into  cold  water, 
in  an  earthen  pan  with  a  cover 
Nice  cool  butter  will  then  be  had  in 
the  hottest  weather.  It  requires 
more  working  in  hot  than  in  cola 
weather  ;  but  care  should  be  takcL 
at  all  times  not  to  leave  a  particle  of 
buttermilk,  or  a  sour  taste,  as  is  too 
often  done. — To  preserve  But- 
ter, take  two  parts  of  the  best 
common  salt,  one  part  of  fine  loaf- 
sugar,  and  one  of  saltpetre  ;  beat 
them  well  together.  To  sixteen 
ounces  of  butter,  thoroughly  cleans- 
ed from  the  milk,  add  one  ounce  of 
this  mixture  :  work  it  well,  and  pot 
down  the  butter  when  it  becomes 
firm  and  cold.  Butter  thus  preserv- 
ed is  the  better  for  keeping,  and 
should  not  be  used  under  a  month. 
This  article  should  be  kept  from  the 
air,  and  is  best  in  pots  of  well-glazed 
ware,  that  will  hold  from  ten  to  four- 
teen pounds  each.  Put  some  salt 
on  the  top  ;  and  when  that  is  turned 
to  brine,  if  not  enough  to  cover  the 
butter  entirely,  add  some  strong  salt 
and  water.  It  then  requires  only  to 
be  covered  from  the  dust,  and  will 
be  good  for  winter  use. — In  pur- 
chasing Butter  at  market,  re- 
collect that  if  fresh,  it  ought  to  smell 
like  a  nosegay,  and  be  of  an  equal 
colour  throughout.  If  sour  in  smell, 
it  has  not  been  sufficiently  washed  : 
if  veiny  and  open,  it  is  probably 
mixed  with  stale  butter,  or  some  of 
an  inferior  quality.  To  ascertain 
the  quality  of  salt  butter,  put  a  knife 
into  it,  and  smell  it  when  drawn  out : 


BUT 


BUT 


if  there  is  any  thing  rancid  or  un- 
pleasant, the  butter  is  bad.  Salt 
butter  being  made  at  different  times, 
the  layers  in  casks  will  greatly  vary  ; 
and  it  is  not  easy  to  ascertain  its 
quality,  except  by  unhooping  the 
cask,  and  trying  it  between  the 
staves. 

BUTTER  DISH.  Roll  butter  in 
different  forms,  like  a  cake  or  a  pine, 
and  mark  it  with  a  tea-spoon.  Or 
roll  it  in  crimping  rollers,  work  it 
through  a  cullender,  or  scoop  it  with 
a  tea-spoon ;  mix  it  with  grated 
beef,  tongue,  or  anchovies.  Gar- 
nish with  a  wreath  of  curled  pars- 
ley, and  it  will  serve  as  a  little  dish. 

'BUTTERMILK,  if  made  of  sweet 
cream,  is  a  delicious  and  very  whole- 
some article  of  food.  Those  who 
can  relish  sour  buttermilk,  will  find 
it  still  more  light,  and  it  is  reckoned 
very  beneficial  in  consumptive  cases. 
If  not  very  sour,  it  is  also  £ft  good 
as  cream  to  eat  with  fruit ;  but  it 
should  be  sweetened  with  white  su- 
gar, and  mixed  with  a  very  little 
milk.  It  does  equally  well  for  cakes 
and  rice  puddings,  and  of  course  it 
is  economical  to  churn  before  the 
cream  is  too  stale  for  any  thing  but 
to  feed  pigs. — ^The  celebrated  Dr. 
Boerhaave  recommended  the  fre- 
quent use  of  sweet  buttermilk  in  all 
consumptive  cases,  and  that  it  should 
form  the  whole  of  the  patient's  drink, 
while  biscuits  and  rusks,  with  ripe 
and  dried  fruits  of  various  kinds, 
should  chiefly  be  depended  on  as 
articles  of  food.  For  this  purpose 
take  the  milk  from  the  cow  into  a 
small  churn ;  in  about  ten  minutes 
begin  churning,  and  continue  till 
the  flakes  of  butter  swim  about  pret- 
ty thick,  and  the  milk  is  discharged 
of  all  the  oily  particles,  and  appears 
thin  and  blue.  Strain  it  through  a 
sieve,  and  let  the  patient  drink  it  as 
frequently  as  possible. 

BUTTERMILK  PUDDING. 
Warm  three  quarts  of  new  milk,  turn 
it  with  a  quart  of  buttermilk,  and 
drain    the    curd    through  a   sieve. 


When  dry  pound  in  a  marble  mor- 
tar, with  nearly  half  a  pound  of  su- 
gar, a  lemon  boiled  tender,  the 
crumb  of  a  roll  grated,  a  nutmeg 
grated,  six  bitter  almonds,  four  oun- 
ces of  warm  butter,  a  tea-cupful  of 
good  cream,  the  yolks  of  five  and 
whites  of  three  eggs,  a  glass  of  sweet 
wine  and  a  glass  of  brandy.  When 
well  incorporated,  bake  in  small 
cups  or  bowls  well  buttered.  If  the 
bottom  be  not  brown,  use  a  sala- 
mander ;  but  serve  as  quick  as  pos- 
sible, and  with  pudding  sauce. 

BUTTERED  CRABS.  Pick  out 
the  inside  when  boiled,  beat  it  up  in 
a  little  gravy,  with  wine,  pepper, 
salt,  nutmeg,  a  few  crumbs  of  bread, 
a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  a  little 
flour,  and  some  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice.     Serve  it  up  hot. 

BUTTERED  EGGS.  Beat  four 
or  five  eggs,  yolk  and  white  toge- 
ther ;  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  in  a  bason,  and  then  put  that 
into  boiling  water.  Stir  it  till  melt- 
ed, then  put  that  butter  and  the 
eggs  into  a  saucepan ;  keep  a  ba- 
son in  your  hand,  just  hold  the 
saucepan  in  the  other  over  a  slow 
part  of  the  fire,  shaking  it  one  way, 
as  it  begins  to  warm.  Pour  it  into 
the  bason  and  back  again,  then  hold 
it  over  the  fire,  stirring  it  constantly 
in  the  saucepan,  and  pouring  it  into 
the  bason,  more  perfectly  to  mix  the 
egg  and  butter,  until  they  shall  be 
hot  without  boiling.  Serve  on  toast- 
ed bread,  or  in  a  bason,  to  eat  with 
salt  fish  or  red  herrings. 

BUTTERED  LOAF.  Take  three 
quarts  of  new  milk,  and  add  as  much 
runnet  as  is  sufficient  to  turn  it; 
then  break  the  eurd,  and  drain  off 
all  the  whey  through  a  clean  cloth. 
Pound  it  in  a  stone  mortar,  add  the 
white  of  one  and  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs,  a  good  handful  of  grated  bread, 
half  as  much  of  fine  flour,  and  a  lit- 
tle salt.  Mix  them  well  together 
with  the  hand,  divide  the  whole  into 
four  round  loaves,  and  place  them 
upon  white  paper.  After  they  are 
55 


BUT 


BUT 


well  buttered,  varnish  them  all  over 
with  a  feather,  dipped  in  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  stirred  up  with  a  little  beer. 
Set  the  loaves  in  a  quick  oven  three 
quarters  of  an  hour  ;  while  baking, 
take  half  a  pound  of  new  butter, 
add  to  it  four  spoonfuls  of  water, 
half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  sugar 
sufficient  to  sweeten  it.  Stir  them 
together  over  the  fire  till  they  boil ; 
when  sufficiently  thickened,  draw 
the  loaves  from  the  oven,  open  their 
tops,  pour  in  the  butter  and  sugar, 
and  send  them  up  with  sugar  strew- 
ed over  them. 

BUTTERED  LOBSTERS.  Pick 
out  the  meat,  cut  and  warm  it,  with 
a  little  weak  brown  gravy,  nutmeg, 
salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  a  little 
flour.  If  done  white,  a  little  white 
gravy  and  cream. 

BUTTERED  ORANGES.  Grate 
off  a  little  of  the  outside  rind  of  four 
Seville  oranges,  and  cut  a  round  hole 
at  the  blunt  end  opposite  the  stalk, 
large  enough  to  take  out  the  pulp 
and  seeds  and  juice.  Then  pick  the 
seeds  and  skin  from  the  pulp,  rub 
the  oranges  with  a  little  salt,  and 
lay  them  in  water  for  a  short  time. 
The  bits  cut  out  are  to  be  saved. 
Boil  the  fruit  in  fresh  water  till  they 
are  tender,  shifting  the  water  to  take 
out  the  bitterness.  In  the  meantime 
make  a  thin  syrup  with  fine  sugar, 
put  the  oranges  into  it,  and  boil  them 
up.  As  the  quantity  of  syrup  need 
not  be  enough  to  cover  them,  turn 
them  round,  that  each  part  may  par- 
take of  the  syrup,  and  let  them  re- 
main in  it  hot  till  they  are  wanted. 
About  half  an  hour  before  serving, 
put  some  sugar  to  the  pulp,  and  set 
56 


it  over  the  fire  ;  mix  it  well,  and  let 
it  boil.  Then  add  a  spoonful  of 
white  wine  for  every  orange,  give  it 
a  boil,  put  in  a  bit  of  fresh  butter, 
and  stir  it  over  the  fire  to  thicken. 
Fill  the  oranges  with  it,  and  serve 
them  with  some  of  the  syrup  in  the 
dish,  with  the  bits  on  the  top. 

BUTTERED  ORANGE-JUICE. 
Mix  the  juice  of  seven  Seville  oran- 
ges with  four  spoonfuls  of  rose-wa- 
ter, and  add  the  yolks  of  eight  and 
the  whites  of  four  eggs  well  beaten. 
Strain  the  liquor  on  half  a  pound  of 
sugar  pounded,  stir  it  over  a  gentle 
fire  ;  and  when  it  begins  to  thicken, 
add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
small  walnut.  Keep  it  over  the  fire 
a  few  minutes  longer,  then  pour  it 
into  a  flat  dish,  and  serve  it  to  eat 
cold.  If  no  silver  saucepan  for  the 
purpose,  do  it  in  a  china  bason  in  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water,  the  top 
of  which  will  just  receive  the  bason. 

BUTTERED  PRAWNS.  Take 
them  out  of  the  husk  ;  warm  them 
with  a  little  good  gravy,  a  bit  of  but- 
ter and  flour,  a  taste  of  nutmeg, 
pepper  and  salt.  Simmer  them  to- 
gether a  minute  or  two,  and  serve 
with  sippets ;  or  with  cream  sauce, 
instead  of  brown.  Shrimps  are  done 
in  the  same  manner. 

BUTTERED  RICE.  Wash  and 
pick  some  rice,  drain,  and  set  it  on 
the  fire,  with  new  milk  sufficient  to 
make  it  swell.  When  tender,  pour 
off  the  milk,  and  add  a  bit  of  butter, 
a  little  sugar  and  pounded  cinna- 
mon. Shake  and  keep  it  from  burn- 
ing on  the  fire,  and  serve  it  up  as  a 
sweet  dish. 


CAK 


C  AL 


Cabbage.  Wash  and  pick  it  care- 
fully, and  if  very  large,  quarter  it. 
Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  plenty 
of  boiling-  water,  and  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  salt ;  if  any  scum  rises,  take 
it  off,  and  boil  it  till  the  stalk  is  ten- 
der. Keep  the  vegetable  well  co- 
vered with  water  all  the  time  of  boil- 
ing, and  see  that  no  smoke  or  dirt 
arises  from  stirring  the  fire.  With 
carefui  management  the  cabbage 
will  look  as  beautiful  when  dressed, 
as  it  did  when  growing.  The  flavour 
of  an  old  cabbage  may  be  much  im- 
proved, by  taking  it  up  when  half 
done,  and  putting  it  directly  into 
another  saucepan  of  fresh  boiling 
water.  When  taken  up,  drain  it  in 
a  cullender.  It  may  be  chopped  and 
warmed  with  a  piece  of  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt,  or  sent  to  table  whole 
with  melted  butter.  Savoys  and 
greens  in  general  are  dressed  in  the 
same  way. 

CAKES.  In  making  and  baking 
cakes  the  following  particulars  should 
be  attended  to.  The  currants  should 
be  nicely  picked  and  washed,  dried 
in  a  cloth,  and  set  before  the  fire.  If 
damp,  they  will  make  cakes  or  pud- 
dings heavy.  Before  they  are  added, 
a  dust  of  dry  flour  should  be  scat- 
tered among  them,  and  then  shaken 
together,  which  will  make  the  cake 
or  pudding  lighter.  Eggs  should  be 
beaten  a  long  time,  whites  and  yolks 
apart,  and  always  strained.  Sugar 
should  be  rubbed  to  a  powder  on  a 
clean  board,  and  sifted  through  a 
fine  hair  or  lawn  sieve.  Lemon  peel 
requires  to  be  pared  very  thin,  and 
with  a  little  sugar  beaten  to  a  paste 
in  a  marble  mortar.  It  should  then 
be  mixed  with  a  little  wine  or  cream, 
so  as  to  divide  easily  among  the 
other  ingredients.  After  all  the  ar- 
ticles are  put  into  the  pan,  they 
should  be  long  and  thoroughly  beat- 
en, as  the  lightness  of  the  cake  de- 
l^ends  much  on  their  being  well  in- 


corporated. Both  black  and  white 
plumb  cakes,  being  made  with  yeast, 
require  less  butter  and  eggs,  and 
eat  equally  light  and  rich.  If  the 
leaven  be  only  of  flour,  milk  and  wa- 
ter, and  yeast,  it  becomes  more 
tough,  and  is  less  easily  divided,  than 
if  the  butter  be  first  put  with  those 
ingredients,  and  the  dough  after- 
wards set  to  rise  by  the  fire.  The 
heat  of  the  oven  is  of  great  import- 
ance for  cakes,  especially  large  ones. 
If  not  pretty  quick,  the  batter  will 
not  rise  ;  and  if  too  quick,  put  some 
white  paper  over  the  cake  to  pre- 
vent its  being  burnt.  If  not  long 
enough  lighted  to  have  a  body  of 
heat,  or  it  is  become  slack,  the  cake 
will  be  heavy.  To  know  when  it  is 
soaked,  take  a  broad-bladed  knife 
that  is  very  bright,  and  thrust  it 
into  the  centre  ;  draw  it  out  instant- 
ly, and  if  the  paste  in  any  degree 
adheres,  return  the  cake  to  the  oven, 
and  close  it  up.  If  the  heat  is  suf- 
ficient to  raise  but  not  to  soak  the 
baking,  a  little  fresh  fuel  should  be 
introduced,  after  taking  out  the 
cakes  and  keeping  them  hot,  and 
then  returning  them  to  the  oven  as 
quickly  as  possible.  Particular  care 
however  should  be  taken  to  prevent 
this  inconvenience,  when  large  cakes 
are  to  be  baked. 

CAKE  TRIFLE.  Bake  a  rice  cake 
in  a  mould ;  and  when  cold,  cut  it 
round  with  a  sharp  knife,  about  two 
inches  from  the  edge,  taking  care 
not  to  perforate  the  bottom.  Put  in 
a  thick  custard,  and  some  spoonfuls 
of  raspberry  jam  ;  and  then  put  on 
a  high  whip. 

CALF'S  FEET  BROTH.  Boil 
two  feet  in  three  quarts  of  water  till 
reduced  to  half  the  quantity  ;  strain 
it,  and  set  it  by.  When  to  be  used, 
take  of  the  fat,  put  a  large  tea-cup- 
ful of  the  jelly  into  a  saucepan,  with 
half  a  glass  of  sweet  wine,  a  little 
sugar  and  nutmeg,  and  heat  it  up 

I  57 


C  AL 


G  A  L 


till  it  be  ready  to  boil.  Then  take  a 
little  of  it,  and  beat  it  by  degrees  to 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  adding  a  bit  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  nutmeg  ;  stir  it 
all  together,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
Grate  a  little  fresh  lemon  peel  into 
it. — Another  way  is  to  boil  two 
calves'  feet  with  two  ounces  of  veal, 
and  two  of  beef,  the  bottom  of  a 
penny  loaf,  two  or  three  blades  of 
mace,  half  a  nutmeg,  and  a  little 
salt,  in  three  quarts  of  water,  till 
reduced  to  half  the  quantity.  Then 
strain  it,  and  take  off  the  fat. 

CALF'S  FEET  JELLY.  Boil  two 
feet,  well  cleaned,  in  five  pints  of 
water  |;ill  they  are  broken,  and  the 
water  half  wasted.  Strain  it,  take 
off  the  fat  when  cold,  and  remove 
the  jelly  from  the  sediment.  Put  it 
into  a  saucepan,  with  sugar,  raisin 
wine,  lemon  juice  and  lemon  peel. 
When  the  flavour  is  rich,  add  the 
whites  of  five  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
their  shells  broken.  Set  the  sauce- 
pan on  the  fire,  but  do  not  stir  the 
jelly  after  it  begins  to  warm.  Let  it 
boil  twenty  minutes  after  it  rises  to 
a  head,  then  pour  it  through  a  flan- 
nel bag,  first  dipping  the  j^lly  bag 
in  hot  water  to  prevent  waste,  and 
squeezing  it  quite  dry.  Run  the 
jelly  repeatedly  through  the  bag, 
until  it  is  quite  clear,  and  then  put 
it  into  glasses  or  forms.  The  fol- 
lowing method  will  greatly  facilitate 
the  clearing  of  the  jelly.  When  the 
mixture  has  boiled  twenty  minutes, 
throw  in  a  tea-cupful  of  cold  water ; 
let  it  boil  five  minutes  longer,  then 
take  the  saucepan  oft' the  fire  covered 
close,  and  keep  it  half  an  hour.  It 
will  afterwards  be  so  clear  as  to  need 
only  once  running  through  the  bag, 
and  much  waste  will  be  prevented. 
— Another  way  to  make  jelly  is  to 
take  three  calf's  feet,  or  two  cow- 
heels,  that  have  been  only  scalded, 
and  boil  them  in  four  quarts  of  wa- 
ter, till  it  be  half  wasted.  Remove 
the  jelly  from  the  fat  and  sediment, 
mix  with  it  the  juice  of  a  Seville 
orange  and  twelve  lemons,  the  peels 
58 


of  three  ditto,  the  whites  and  shells 
of  twelve  eggs,  brown  sugar  to  taste, 
nearly  a  pint  of  raisin  wine,  one 
ounce  of  coriander  seed,  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  allspice,  a  bit  of  cin- 
namon, and  six  cloves,  all  bruised 
and  previously  mixed  together.  The 
jelly  should  boil  fifteen  minutes  with- 
out stirring,  and  then  be  cleared 
through  a  flannel  bag.  Take  a  lit- 
tle of  f he  jelly  while  running,  mix  it 
with  a  tea-cupful  of  water  in  which 
a  piece  of  beet  root  has  been  boiled, 
and  run  it  through  the  bag  when  all 
the  rest  is  run  out.  The  other  jelly 
being  cooled  on  a  plate,  this  will 
serve  to  garnish  it.  Jelly  made  in 
this  way  will  have  a  fine  high  colour 
and  flavour.  But  in  all  cases,  to 
produce  good  jelly,  the  feet  should 
only  be  scalded  to  take  oft'  the  hair. 
Those  who  sell  them  ready  prepared 
generally  boil  them  too  long,  and 
they  become  in  consequence  less 
nutricious.  If  scalded  only,  the  li- 
quor will  require  greater  care  in  re- 
moving the  fat ;  but  the  jelly  will  be 
far  stronger,  and  of  course  allow 
more  water.  Jelly  is  equally  good 
if  made  of  cow-heels  nicely  cleaned, 
and  will  be  much  stronger  than  what 
is  made  from  calf's  feet. 

CALF'S  FEET  PUDDING.  Boil 
four  feet  quite  tender,  pick  off  the 
meat,  and  chop  it  fine.  Add  some 
grated  bread,  a  pound  of  chopped 
suet,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  six  eggs,  a 
pound  of  currants,  four  ounces  of  ci- 
tron, two  ounces  of  candied  peel,  a 
grated  nutmeg,  and  a  glass  of  bran- 
dy. Butter  the  cloth  and  flour  it, 
tie  it  close,  and  boil  it  three  hours. 

CALF  S  HEAD  BOILED.  Clean 
it  carefully  and  soak  it  in  water,  that 
it  may  look  very  nice,  and  take  out 
the  brains  for  sauce.  Wash  them 
well,  tie  them  up  in  a  cloth,  with 
a  little  sage  and  parsley ;  put  them 
into  the  pot  at  the  same  time  with 
the  head,  and  scum  the  water  while 
boiling.  A  large  head  will  take  two 
hours,  and  when  the  part  which 
joined  the  neck  becomes  tender  it  is 


CAL 


CAL 


done.  Take  up  the  brains  and  chop 
them  with  the  sage  and  parsley,  and 
an  egg  boiled  hard.  Put  them  into 
a  saucepan  with  a  bit  of  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  warm  them  up. 
Peel  the  tongue,  lay  it  in  the  middle 
of  the  dish,  with  the  brain  sauce 
round  it.  Strew  over  the  head  some 
grated  bread  and  chopped  parsley, 
and  brown  it  by  the  ifire  in  a  sepa- 
rate dish,  adding  bacon,  pickled 
pork,  and  greens. 

CALF'S  HEAD  COLLARED. 
Scald  the  skin  off  a  fine  head,  clean 
it  nicely,  and  take  out  the  brains. 
Boil  it  tender  enough  to  remove  the 
bones,  and  season  it  high  with  mace, 
nutmeg,  salt,  and  white  pepper. 
Put  a  layer  of  chopped  parsley,  then 
a  quantity  of  thick  slices  of  fine  ham, 
or  a  beautiful  coloured  tongue  skin- 
ned, and  then  the  yolks  of  six  nice 
yellow  eggs  stuck  here  and  there 
about.  Roll  the  head  quite  close, 
and  tie  it  up  tight,  placing  a  cloth 
under  the  tape,  as  for  other  collars. 
Boil  it,  and  then  lay  a  weight  upon 
it. 

CALF'S  HEAD  FRICASSEED. 
Clean  and  half-boil  part  of  a  head ; 
cut  the  meat  into  small  bits,  and  put 
it  into  a  tosser,  with  a  little  gravy 
made  of  the  bones,  some  of  the  w  a- 
ter  it  was  boiled  in,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  an  onion,  and  a  blade  of 
mace.  The  cockscombs  of  young 
cockrels  may  be  boiled  tender,  and 
then  blanched,  or  a  sweetbread  will 
do  as  well.  Season  the  gravy  with 
a  little  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  salt. 
Rub  down  some  flour  and  butter, 
and  give  all  a  boil  together.  Then 
take  out  herbs  and  onion,  and  add 
a  small  cup  of  cream,  but  do  not 
boil  it  in.  Serve  with  small  bits  of 
bacon  rolled  up  and  forcemeat  balls. 

CALF'S  HEAD  HASHED.  When 
half  boiled,  cut  off  the  meat  in  slices, 
half  an  inch  thick,  and  two  or  three 
inches  long.  Brown  some  butter, 
flour,  and  slici^  onion  ;  and  throw 
in  the  slices  with  some  good  gravy, 
truffles  and  morels.  Give  it  one  boil, 


skim  it  well  and  set  it  in  a  moderate 
heat  to  simmer  till  very  tender. 
Season  at  first  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  cayenne ;  and  ten  minutes  be- 
fore serving,  throw  in  some  shred 
parsley,  and  a  very  small  bit  of  ta- 
ragon  and  knotted  marjoram  cut  as 
fine  as  possible.  Send  it  up  with 
forcemeat  balls,  and  bits  of  bacon 
rolled  round,  adding  the  squeeze  of 
a  lemon. — Another  way  is  to  boil 
the  head  almost  enough,  and  take 
the  meat  of  the  best  side  neatly  off 
the  bone  with  a  sharp  knife.  Lay 
this  into  a  small  dish,  wash  it  over 
with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  co- 
ver it  with  crumbs,  a  few  herbs  nice- 
ly shred,  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and 
grated  nutmejr  all  mixed  together 
first.  Set  the  dish  before  the  fire, 
and  turn  it  now  and  then,  that  all 
parts  of  the  head  may  be  equally 
brown.  In  the  mean  time  slice  the 
remainder  of  the  head,  peel  the 
tongue  and  slice  it.  Put  a  pint  of 
good  gravy  into  a  pan  with  an  onion, 
and  a  small  bunch  of  herbs,  consist- 
ing of  parsley,  basil,  savoury,  tara- 
gon,  knotted  marjoram,  and  a  little 
thyme.  Add  a  small  quantity  of 
salt  and  cayenne,  a  few  trufilles  and 
morels,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  ketch- 
up. Then  beat  up  half  the  brains, 
put  it  to  the  rest  with  a  little  butter 
and  flour,  and  simmer  the  whole  to- 
gether. Beat  the  other  part  of  the 
brains  with  shred  lemon  peel,  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg  and  mace,  some  shred 
parsley  and  an  egg.  Then  fry  it  in 
small  cakes  of  a  beautiful  yellow 
brown.  Dip  some  oysters  into  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  and  do  the  same ; 
and  also  some  relishing  forcemeat 
balls,  made  as  for  mock  turtle.  Gar- 
nish with  -these,  and  small  bits  of 
bacon  just  made  hot  before  the  fire. 
CALF'S  HEAD  PIE.  Stew  a 
knuckle  of  veal  till  fit  for  eating, 
with  two  onions,  a  few  isinglass 
shavings,  a  bunch  of  herbs,  a  blade 
of  mace,  £,nd  a  few  peppercorns,  in 
three  pints  of  water.  Keep  the 
broth  for  the  pie.  Take  oft'  a  bit  of 
59 


C  AL 


CAL 


the  meat  for  the  balls,  and  let  the 
other  be  eaten ;  but  simmer  the  bones 
in  the  broth  till  it  is  very  good.  Half 
boil  the  head,  and  cut  it  into  square 
bits  ;  put  a  layer  of  ham  at  the  bot- 
tom, then  some  head,  first  fat  and 
then  lean,  with  balls  and  hard  eggs 
cut  in  half,  and  so  on  till  the  dish 
be  full ;  but  great  care  must  be  ta- 
ken not  to  place  the  pieces  close,  or 
the  pie  will  be  too  solid,  and  there 
will  be  no  space  for  the  jelly.  The 
meat  must  be  first  seasoned  pretty 
well  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
scrape  or  two  of  nutmeg.  Put  a 
little  water  and  gravy  into  the  dish, 
cover  it  with  a  tolerably  thick  crust, 
and  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven.  When 
done,  fill  it  up  with  gravy,  and 
do  not  cut  it  till  quite  cold.  Use  a 
very  sharp  knife  for  this  purpose, 
first  cutting  out  a  large  piece,  and 
going  down  to  the'  bottom  of  the 
dish :  thinner  slices  may  afterwards 
be  cut.  The  different  colours,  and 
the  clear  jelly,  will  have  a  beautiful 
marbled  appearance.  A  small  pie 
may  be  made  to  eat  hot,  and  will 
have  a  good  appearance,  if  seasoned 
high  with  oysters,  mushrooms,  truf- 
fles and  morels.  The  cold  pie  will 
Jceep  several  days,  and  slices  of  it 
will  make  a  handsome  side-dish.  If 
the  isinglass  jelly  be  not  found  stiff 
enough,  a  calf's  foot  or  a  cow  heel 
may  be  used  instead.  To  vary  the 
colour,  pickled  tongue  may  be  cut 
in,  instead  of  ham. 

CALF'S  HEAD  ROASTED.  Wash 
the  head  perfectly  clean,  stew  it  with 
oysters,  tie  it  together  and  spit  it, 
baste  it  well  with  butter  and  flour 
rubbed  smooth.  Stew  together  some 
of  the  oyster  liquor,  gravy,  butter 
and  salt,  with  a  few  sprigs  of  mar- 
joram and  savoury,  adding  a  little 
claret,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  the 
dish. 

CALF'S  HEAD  SOUP.  After  the 
head  has  been  thoroughly  cleaned, 
put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  proper 
quantity  of  water,  an  onion,  some 
sweet  herbs,  mace  and  cloves,  and 
60 


a  little  pearl  barley.  Boil  it  quite 
tender,  put  in  some  stewed  celery, 
and  season  it  with  pepper.  Pour 
the  soup  into  a  dish,  place  the  head 
in  the  middle,  and  send  it  hot  to 
table. 

CALF'S  HEAD  STEWED.  Wash 
and  soak  it  for  an  hour,  bone  it,  take 
out  the  brains,  the  tongue  and  the 
eyes.  Make  a  forcemeat  with  two 
pounds  of  beef  suet,  as  much  lean 
veal,  two  anchovies  boned  and  wash- 
ed, the  peel  of  a  lemon,  some  grated 
nutmeg,  and  a  little  thyme.  Chop 
them  up  together  with  some  grated 
bread,  and  mix  in  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs.  Make  part  of  this  forcemeat 
into  fifteen  or  twenty  balls ;  boil  five 
eggs  hard,  some  oysters  washed 
clean,  and  half  a  pint  of  fresh  mush- 
rooms, and  mix  with  the  rest  of  the 
forcemeat.  Stuff  that  part  of  the 
head  where  the  bones  were  taken  out, 
tie  it  up  carefully  with  packthread, 
put  it  into  two  quarts  of  gravy  or 
good  broth,  with  a  blade  of  mace, 
cover  it  close,  and  stew  it  very  slowly 
for  two  hours.  While  the  head  is 
doing,  beat  up  the  brains  with  some 
lemon-thyme  and  parsley  chopped 
very  fine,  some  grated  nutmeg,  and 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  mixed  with  it. 
Fry  half  the  brains  in  dripping,  in 
little  cakes,  and  fry  the  balls.  When 
the  head  is  done,  keep  it  warm  with 
the  brain-cakes  and  balls  ;  strain 
off  the  liquor  in  which  the  head  was 
stewed,  add  to  it  some  stewed  truf- 
fles and  morels,  and  a  few  pickled 
mushrooms.  Put  in  the  other  half 
of  the  brains  chopped,  boil  them  up 
together,  and  let  them  simmer  a  few 
minutes.  Lay  the  head  into  a  hot 
dish,  pour  the  liquor  over  it,  and 
place  the  balls  and  the  brain-cakes 
round  it.  For  a  small  family,  half 
the  head  will  be  sufficient.  A  lamb's 
head  may  be  done  in  the  same  way. 

CALF'S  HEART.  Chop  fine 
some  suet,  parsley,  sweet  marjoram 
and  a  boiled  egg.  Add  some  grated 
bread,  lemon  peel,  pepper,  salt  and 
mustard.     Mix  them  together  in  a 


CAL 


C  AL 


paste,  and  stuff  the  heart  with  it, 
after  it  has  been  well  washed  and 
cleaned.  If  done  carefully,  it  is 
better  baked  than  roasted.  Serve 
it  up  quite  hot,  with  gravy  and  melt- 
ed butter. 

CALF'S  KIDNEY.  Chop  veal 
kidney,  and  some  of  the  fat ;  like- 
wise a  little  leek  or  onion,  pepper, 
and  salt.  Roll  the  kidney  up  with 
an  egg  into  balls,  and  fry  it. — A 
calf's  heart  should  be  stuffed  and 
roasted  as  a  beef's  heart ;  or  sliced 
and  made  into  a  pudding,  the  same 
as  for  a  steak  or  kidney  pudding. 

CALF'S  LIVER,  there  are  se- 
veral ways  of  making  this  into  a 
good  dish.  One  is  to  broil  it,  after 
it  has  been  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Then  rub  a  bit  of  cold 
butter  over,  and  serve  it  up  hot  and 
hot. — If  the  liver  is  to  be  roasted, 
first  wash  and  wipe  it,  then  cut  a  long 
hole  in  it,  and  stuff  it  with  crumbs 
of  bread,  chopped  anchovy,  herbs, 
fat  bacon,  onion,  salt,  pepper,  a  bit 
of  butter,  and  an  egg.  Sew  up  the 
liver,  lard  or  wrap  it  in  a  veal  caul, 
and  put  it  to  the  fire.  Serve  it  with 
good  brown  gravy,  and  currant  jelly. 
— If  the  liver  and  lights  are  to  be 
dressed  together,  half  boil  an  equal 
quantity  of  each ;  then  cut  them  in 
a  middling-sized  mince,  adda  spoon- 
ful or  two  of  the  water  that  boiled  it, 
a  bit  of  butter,  flour,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Simmer  them  together  ten  mi- 
nutes, and  serve  the  dish  up  hot. 

CALF'S  SWEETBREADS.  These 
should  behalf  boiled,  and  then  stew- 
ed in  white  gravy.  Add  cream, 
flour,  butter,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  white 
pepper.  Or  do  them  in  brown  sauce 
seasoned.  Or  parboil,  and  then  co- 
ver them  with  crumbs,  herbs,  and 
seasoning,  and  brown  them  in  a 
Dutch  oven.  Serve  with  butter,  and 
mushroom  ketchup,  or  gravy. 

CALVES.  The  general  method 
of  rearing  calves  consumes  so  much 
of  the  milk  of  ^  dairy,  that  it  is 
highly  necessary  to  adopt  other 
means,  or  the  calves  must  be  sold 


to  the  butcher  while  they  are  young. 
A  composition  called  linseed  milk, 
made  of  linseed  oil-cake  powdered, 
and  gradually  mixed  with  skim-milk 
sweetened  with  treacle,  has  been 
tried  with  considerable  effect.  It 
must  be  made  nearly  as  warm  as  new 
milk  when  taken  from  the  cow.  Hay 
tea  mixed  with  linseed  and  boiled  to 
a  jelly,  has  likewise  been  tried  with 
success.  A  species  of  water  gruel, 
made  in  the  following  manner,  is 
strongly  recommended.  Put  a  hand- 
ful or  two  of  oatmeal  into  some  boil- 
ing water,  and  after  it  has  thickened 
a  little,  leave  it  to  cool  till  it  is  luke- 
warm ;  mix  with  it  two  or  three  pints 
of  skim-milk,  and  give  it  to  the  calf 
to  drink.  At  first  it  may  be  neces- 
sary to  make  the  calf  drink  by  pre- 
senting the  fingers  to  it ;  but  it  will 
soon  learn  to  drink  of  itself,  and  will 
grow  much  faster  than  by  any  other 
method.  According  to  the  old  cus- 
tom, a  calf  intended  to  be  reared  is 
allowed  to  suck  for  six  or  eight 
weeks  ;  and  if  the  cow  give  only  a 
moderate  quantity  of  milk,  the  va- 
lue of  it  will  amount  to  the  price  of 
the  calf  in  half  that  time.  By  the 
method  now  recommended,  only  a 
little  oatmeal  or  ground  barley  is 
consumed,  and  a  small  quantity  of 
skim-milk.  The  calf  is  also  more 
healthy  and  strong,  and  less  subject 
to  disease.  Small  whisps  of  hay 
should  be  placed  round  them  on 
cleft  sticks,  to  induce  the  calves  to 
eat ;  and  when  they  are  weaned, 
they  should  be  turned  into  short 
sweet  grass  ;  for  if  hay  and  water 
only  are  used,  they  are  liable  to 
swellings  and  the  rot.  The  fatting 
of  calves  being  an  object  of  great 
importance,  a  greater  variety  of  food 
is  now  provided  for  this  purpose  than 
formerly,  and  great  improvements 
have  been  made  in  this  part  of  rural 
economy.  Grains,  potatoes,  malt 
dust,  pollard,  and  turnips  now  con- 
stitute their  common  aliment.  But 
in  order  to  make  them  fine  and  fat, 
they  must  be  kept  as  clean  as  pos- 
61 


AL 


C  A  N 


sible,  with  fresh  litter  every  day. 
Bleeding  them  twice  before  they  are 
slaughtered,  improves  the  beauty  and 
whiteness  of  the  flesh,  but  it  may  be 
doubted  whether  the  meat  is  equal- 
ly good  and  nutricious.  If  calves 
be  taken  with  the  scouring,  which 
often  happens  in  a  few  days  after 
being  cast,  make  a  medicine  of  pow- 
dered chalk  and  wheat  meal,  wrought 
into  a  ball  with  some  gin ;  and  it 
will  aflford  relief.  The  shoote  is  an- 
other distemper  to  which  they  are 
liable,  and  is  attended  with  a  violent 
cholic  and  the  loathing  of  food.  The 
general  remedy  in  this  case  is  milk, 
well  mulled  with  eggs  ;  or  eggs  and 
flour  mixed  with  oil,  melted  butter, 
linseed  or  anniseed.  To  prevent  the 
sickness  which  commonly  attends 
calves  about  Michaelmas  time,  take 
newly-churned  butter,  without  salt, 
and  form  it  into  a  cup  the  size  of  an 
egg  ;  into  this  cup  put  three  or  four 
cloves  of  bruised  garlic,  and  till  it 
up  with  tar.  Having  put  the  cup 
down  the  calf's  throat,  pour  into  its 
nostrils  half  a  spoonful  of  the  spirit 
of  turpentine,  rub  a  little  tar  upon 
its  nose,  and  keep  it  within  doors 
for  an  hour.  Calves  ought  to  be 
housed  a  night  before  this  medicine 
is  given. 

CALICO  FURNITURE.  When 
curtains  or  bed  furniture  of  this  de- 
scription are  to  be  taken  down  f  ^r 
the  summer,  shake  oft*  the  b-osedu^f, 
and  lightly  brush  them  with  a  small 
long-haired  furniture  brush.  Wip»' 
them  afterwards  very  closely  with 
clean  flannels,  and  rub  thtm  with 
dry  bread.  If  properU  d«»iie,  the 
curtains  will  look  nearly  a«»  well  as 
at  first ,  and  if  the  colour  be  not 
very  light,  they  will  not  require 
washing  for  years.  Fold  them  up 
in  large  parcels,  and  put  them  by 
carefully.  While  the  furniture  re- 
mains up,  it  should  be  preserved  as 
much  as  possible  from  the  sun  and 
air,  which  injure  delicate  colours  ; 
and  the  dust  may  be  blown  oflf  with 
bellows.  Curtains  may  thus  be  kept 
62 


clean,  even  to  use  with  the  linings 
after  they  have  been  washed  or  new- 
ly dipped. 

CAMP  VINEGAR.  Slice  a  large 
head  of  garlic,  and  put  it  into  a 
wide-mouthed  bottle,  with  half  an 
ounce  of  cayenne,  two  tea-spoonfuls 
of  soy,  two  of  walnut  ketchup,  four 
anchovies  chopped,  a  pint  of  vine- 
gar, and  enough  cochineal  to  give  it 
the  colour  of  lavender  drops.  Let 
it  stand  six  weeks;  then  strain  it  off 
quite  clear,  and  keep  it  in  small  bot- 
tles sealed  up. 

CAMPHOR  JULEP.  Dissolve  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  camphor  in 
half  a  pint  of  brandy.  It  may  thus 
be  kept  fit  for  use  ;  and  a  tea-spoon- 
fid  taken  in  a  wine  glass  of  cold 
water  will  be  fojind  an  agreeable 
dose. — Another  way.  To  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  camphor,  add  a  quart 
of  boiling  water,  and  a  quart  of  cold. 
Let  it  stand  six  hours,  and  strain  it 
ort'  for  use. 

CAMPHOR  OINTMENT.  Put 
half  an  ounce  of  camphor  into  an 
ounce  of  the  oil  of  almonds,  mixed 
with  an  ounce  of  spermaceti.  Scrape 
fine  into  it  half  an  ounce  of  white 
wax,  and  melt  it  over  some  hot  wa- 
ter. 

CAMPHORATED  OIL.  Beat  an 
ounce  ofxamf)hor  in  a  mortar,  with 
two  ounces  of  Florence  oi*),  till  the 
camphor  is  entirely  dissolved.  This 
liniment  is  highly  useful  in  rheuma- 
tism, spasms,  and  other  cases  of 
extreme  pain. 

CANARIES.  Those  who  wish  to 
breed  this  species  of  birds,  should 
provide  them  a  large  cage,  with  two 
boxes  to  build  in.  Early  in  April 
put  a  cock  and  hen  together ;  and 
whilst  they  are  pairing,  foed  them 
with  soft  meat,  or  a  little  grated 
bread,  scalded  rapeseed  and  an  egg 
mixed  together.  At  the  same  time 
a  small  net  of  fine  hay,  wool,  cot- 
ton, and  hair  should  be  suspended 
in  one  corner  olMfte  cage,  so  that 
the  birds  may  pull  it  out  as  they 
want  it  to  build  with.     Tame  cana- 


CAN 


CAP 


ries  will  sometimes  breed  three  or 
four  limes  in  a  year,  and  produce 
their  young  about  a  fortnight  after 
tliey  begin  to  sit.  When  hatched, 
they  should  be  left  to  the  care  of 
the  old  ones,  to  nurse  them  up  till 
they  can  fly  and  feed  themselves  ; 
during  which  time  they  should  be 
supplied  with  fresh  victuals  every 
day,  accompanied  now  and  then 
with  cabbage,  lettuce,  and  chick- 
Aveed  with  seeds  upon  it.  When  the 
young  canaries  can  feed  themselves, 
they  should  be  taken  from  the  old 
ones,  and  put  into  another  cage. 
Boil  a  little  rapeseed,  bruise  and 
mix  it  with  as  much  grated  bread, 
mace  seed,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg- 
boiled  hard  ;  and  supply  them  with 
a  small  quantity  every  day,  that  it 
may  not  become  stale  or  sour.  Be- 
sides this,  give  them  a  little  scalded 
rapeseed,  and  a  little  rape  and  ca- 
nary seed  by  itself.  This  diet  may 
be  continued  till  they  have  done 
moulting,  or  renewed  at  any  time 
when  they  appear  unhealthy,  and 
afterwards  they  may  be  fed  in  the 
usual  manner. 

CANCER.  It  is  asserted  by  a 
French  practitioner,  that  this  cruel 
disoFrder  may  be  cured  in  three  days, 
by  the  following  simple  application, 
without  any  surgical  operanon  what- 
ever. Knead  a  piece  of  dough  about 
the  size  of  a  pullet's  egg,  with  the 
same  quantity  of  hog's  lard,  the  old- 
er the  better  ;  and  when  they  are 
thorougly  blended,  so  as  to  form  a 
kind  of  salve,  spread  it  on  a  piece 
of  white  leather,  and  apply  it  to  the 
part  affected.  This,  if  it  do  no  good, 
is  perfectly  harmless. — A  plaster  for 
an  eating  cancer  may  be  made  as 
follows.  File  up  some  old  brass, 
and  mix  a  spoonful  of  it  wdth  mut- 
ton suet.  Lay  the  plaster  on  the 
I  cancer,  and  let  it  remain  till  the  cure 
is  effected.  Several  persons  have 
derived  great  ^lefit  from  this  ap- 
fpiias  seldom  been 


plication,  and 
known  to  fail. 

CANDIED   ANGELICA. 


Cut 


angelica  into  pieces  three  inches 
long,  boil  it  tender,  peel  and  boil  it 
again  till  it  is  green  ;  dry  it  in  a  cloth, 
and  add  its  weight  in  sugar.  Sift 
some  fine  sugar  over,  and  let  thenj 
remain  in  a  pan  two  days  ;  then  boi 
the  stalks  clear  and  green,  and  let 
them  drain  in  a  cullender.  Beat 
another  pound  of  sugar  and  strew 
over  them,  lay  them  on  plates,  and 
dry  them  well  in  an  oven. 

CANDIED  FRUIT.  Take  the 
preserve  out  of  the  syrup,  lay  it  into 
a  new  sieve,  and  dip  it  suddenly 
into  hot  water,  to  take  off  the  syrup 
that  hangs  about  it.  Put  it  on  a 
napkin  before  the  fire  to  drain,  and 
then  do  another  layer  in  the  sieve. 
Sift  the  fruit  all  over  with  double  re- 
fined sugar  previously  prepared,  till 
it  is  quite  white.  Set  it  on  the  shal- 
low end  of  sieves  in  a  lightly-warm 
oven,  and  turn  it  two  or  three  times  : 
it  must  not  be  cold  till  dry.  NVatch 
it  carefully,  and  it  will  be  beautiful. 

CANDIED  PEEL.  Take  out  the 
pulps  of  lemons  or  oranges,  soak 
the  rinds  six  days  in  salt  and  water, 
and  afterwards  boil  them  tender  in 
spring  water.  Drain  them  on  a  sieve, 
make  a  thin  syrup  of  loaf  sugar  and 
water,  and  boil  the  peels  in  it  till  the 
syrup  begins  to  candy  about  them. 
Then  take  out  the  peels,  grate  fine 
sugar  over  them,  drain  them  on  a 
sieve,  and  dry  them  before  the  fire. 

CANDLES.  Those  made  in  cold 
weather  are  best ;  and  if  put  in  a 
cool  place,  they  will  improve  by 
keeping  ;  but  when  they  begin  to 
sweat  and  turn  rancid,  the  tallow 
loses  its  strength,  and  the  candles 
are  spoiled.  A  stock  for  winter  use 
should  be  provided  in  autumn,  and 
for  summer,  early  in  the  spiing. 
The  best  candle-wicks  are  made  of 
fine  cotton  ;  the  coarser  yarn  con- 
sumes faster,  and  burns  less  steady. 
Mould  candles  burn  the  clearest, 
but  dips  afford  the  best  light,  their 
wicks  being  proportionably  larger. 

CAPER  SAUCE.     Ad^  a  table- 
spoonful  of  capers  to  twice  the  quan- 
63 


CAR 


C  A^ 


tity  of  vinegar,  mince  one  third  of 
the  capers  very  fine,  and  divide  the 
others  in  half.  Put  them  into  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  melted  butter, 
or  good  thickened  gravy,  and  stir 
them  the  same  way  as  the  melted 
butter,  to  prevent  their  oiling.  The 
juice  of  half  a  Seville  orange  or  le-; 
mon  may  be  added.  An  excellent 
substitute  for  capers  may  be  made 
of  pickled  green  peas,  nastursions, 
or  gherkins,  chopped  into  a  similar 
size,  and  boiled  with  melted  butter. 
When  capers  are  kept  for  use,  they 
should  be  covered  with  fresh  scalded 
vinegar,  tied  down  close  to  exclude 
the  air,  and  to  make  them  soft. 

CAPILLAIRE.  Take  fourteen 
pounds  of  good  moist  sugar,  three 
of  coarse  sugar,  and  six  eggs  beaten 
in  well  with  the  shells,  boil  them  to- 
gether in  three  quarts  of  water,  and 
skim  it  carefully.  Then  add  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  orange-flower  water, 
strain  it  off",  and  put  it  into  bottles. 
When  cold,  mix  a  spoonful  or  two 
of  this  syrup  in  a  little  warm  or  cold 
water. 

CARACHEE.  Mix  with  a  pint  of 
vinegar,  two  table-s-poonfuls  of  In- 
dian soy,  two  of  walnut  pickle,  two 
cloves  of  garlic,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
cayenne,  one  of  lemon  pickle,  and 
two  of  sauce  royal. 

CARMEL  COVER.  Dissolve 
eight  ounces  of  double  refined  sugar 
in  three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  water, 
and  as  many  drops  of  lemon  juice. 
Put  it  into  a  copper  skillet ;  when  it 
begins  to  thicken,  dip  the  handle  of 
a  spoon  in  it,  and  put  that  into  a 
pint  bason  of  water.  Squeeze  the 
sugar  from  the  spoon  into  it,  and  so 
on  till  all  the  sugar  is  extracted. 
Take  a  bit  out  of  the  water,  and  if 
it  snaps  and  is  brittle  when  cold,  it 
is  done  enough.  But  let  it  be  only 
three  parts  cold,  then  pour  the  wa- 
ter from  the  sugar,  and  having  a 
copper  form  oiled  well,  run  the  su- 
gar on  it,  in  the  manner  of  a  maze, 
and  when  cold  it  may  be  put  on  the 
dish  it  is  intended  to  cover.  If  on 
64 


trial  the  sugar  is  not  brittle,  pour  off 
the  water,  return  it  into  the  skillet, 
and  boil  it  again.  It  should  look 
thick  like  treacle,  but  of  a  light  gold 
colour.  This  makes  an  elegant  co- 
ver for  sweetmeats. 

CARP.  This  excellent  fish  will 
live  some  time  out  of  water,  and  may 
therefore  get  wasted  :  it  is  best  to 
kill  them  as  soon  as  caught,  to  pre- 
vent this.  Carp  should  either  be 
boiled  or  stewed.  Scale  and  draw 
it,  and  save  the  blood.  Set  on  wa- 
ter in  a  stewpan,  with  a  little  Chili 
vinegar,  salt,  and  horse-radish. 
When  it  boils,  put  in  the  carp,  and 
boil  it  gently  for  twenty  minutes, 
according  to  the  thickness  of  the 
fish.  Stew  the  blood  with  half  a 
pint  of  port  wine,  some  good  gravy, 
a  sliced  onion,  a  little  whole  pep- 
per, a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  nutmeg 
grated.  Thicken  the  sauce  with 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  season  it  with 
pepper  and  salt,  essence  of  anchovy, 
and  mushroom  ketchup.  Serve  up 
the  fish  with  the  sauce  poured  over 
it,  adding  a  little  lemon  juice.  Carp 
are  also  very  nice  plain  boiled,  with 
common  fish  sauce. 

CARPETS.  In  order  to  keep  them 
clean,  they  should  not  frequently  be 
swept  witj^  a  wisk  brush,  as  it  wears 
them  fast ;  not  more  than  once  a 
week,  and  at  other  times  with  sprink- 
led tea-leaves,  and  a  hair  brush. 
Fine  carpets  should  be  done  gently 
on  the  knees,  with  a  soft  clothes* 
brush.  When  a  carpet  requires  more 
cleaning,  take  it  up  and  beat  it  well, 
then  lay  it  down  and  brush  it  on 
both  sides  with  a  hand-brush.  Turn 
it  the  right  side  upwards,  and  scour 
it  clean  with  ox-gall  and  soap  and 
water,  and  dry  it  with  linen  cloths. 
Lay  it  on  the  grass,  or  hang  it  up  to 
dry  thoroughlv. 

CARRAWAY  CAKE.  Dry  two 
pounds  of  good  flour,  add  ten  spoon- 
fuls of  yeast,  and  Jkelve  of  cream. 
Wash  the  salt  oi^of  a  pound  of 
butter,  and  rub  it  into  the  flour ; 
beat  up  eight   eggs  with  half  the  • 


-M 


CAJ^TTJVa* 


UU'e-l'C/Ut  (//  kjtt'J: 


i 


# 


CARVIJNTGr, 


>/ 


(r<Mije^ 


Thi-asant 


J^aHvuhie 


CAR 


CAR 


whites,  and  mix  it  with  the  compo- 
sition aheady  prepared.  Work  it 
into  a  light  paste,  set  it  before  the 
fire  to  rise,  incorporate  a  pound  of 
carraway  comfits,  and  an  hour  will 
bake  it. 

CARRIER  SAUCE.  Chop  six 
shalots  fine,  and  boil  them  up  with 
a  gill  of  gravy,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar, 
some  pepper  and  salt.  This  is  used 
for  mutton,  and  served  in  a  boat. 

CARROLE  OF  RICE.  Wash  and 
pick  some  rice  quite  clean,  boil  it 
tiv2  minutes  in  water,  strain  and  put 
it  nto  a  stewpan,  with  a  bit  of  but- 
te.%  a  good  slice  of  ham,  and  an 
cnion.  Stew  it  over  a  very  gentle 
ire  till  tender  ;  have  ready  a  mould 
lined  with  very  thin  slices  of  bacon, 
mix  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs 
with  the  rice,  and  then  line  the  ba- 
con with  it  about  half  an  inch  thick. 
Put  into  it  a  ragout  of  chicken,  rab- 
bit, veal,  or  of  any  thing  else.  Fill 
up  the  mould,  and  cover  it  close 
with  rice.  Bake  it  in  a  quick  oven 
an  hour,  turn  it  over,  and.  send  it  to 
table  in  a  good  gravy,  or  curry  sauce. 

CARROTS.  This  root  requires  a 
good  deal  of  boiling.  When  young, 
wipe  off  the  skin  after  they  are  boil- 
ed ;  when  old,  scrape  them  first,  and 
boil  them  with  salt  meat.  Carrots 
and  parsnips  should  be  kept  in  lay- 
ers of  dry  sand  for  winter  use,  and 
not  be  wholly  cleared  from  the  earth. 
They  should  be  placed  separately, 
with  their  necks  upward,  and  be 
drawn  out  regularly  as  they  stand, 
without  disturbing  the  middle  or  the 
sides. 

CARROT  PUDDING.  Boil  a 
large  carrot  tender  ;  then  bruise  it 
in  a  marble  mortar,  and  mix  with  it 
a  spoonful  of  biscuit  powder,  or 
three  or  four  little  sweet  biscuits 
without  seeds,  four  yolks  and  two 
whites  of  eggs,  a  pint  of  cream  either 
raw  or  scalded,  a  little  ratifia,  a  large 
spoonful  of  orange  or  rose-water,  a 
quarter  of  a  nutmeg,  and  two  ounces 
of  sugar.     Bake  it  in  a  shallow  dish 


lined  with  paste  ;  turn  it  out,  and 
dust  a  little  fine  sugar  over  it. 

CARROT  SOUP.  Put  some  beef 
bones  into  a  saucepan,  with  four 
quarts  of  the  liquor  in  which  a  leg 
of  mutton  or  beef  has  been  boiled, 
two  large  onions,  a  turnip,  pep-  er 
and  salt,  and  boil  them  togetherfor 
three  hours.  Have  ready  six  large 
carrots  scraped  and  sliced  ;  strain 
the  soup  on  them,  and  stew  them 
till  soft  enough  to  pulp  through  a 
hair  sieve  or  coarse  cloth,  with  a 
wooden  spoon  ;  but  pulp  only  the 
red  part  of  the  carrot,  and  not  the 
yellow.  The  soup  should  be  made 
the  day  before,  and  afterwards  boil- 
ed with  the  pulp,  to  the  thickness 
of  peas-soup,  with  the  addition  of 
a  little  cayenne. 

CARVING.  In  nothing  does  ce- 
remony more  frequently  triumph 
over  comfort,  than  in  the  adminis- 
tration of  '  the  honours  of  the  table.' 
Every  one  is  sufficiently  aware  that 
a  dinner,  to  be  eaten  in  perfection, 
should  be  taken  the  very  moment  it 
is  sent  hot  to  table  ;  yet  few  persons 
seem  to  understand,  that  he  is  the 
best  carver  who  fills  the  plates  of 
the  greatest  numbers  of  guests  in  the 
least  portion  of  time,  provided  it  be 
done  with  ease  and  elegance.  In  a 
mere  family  circle,  where  all  cannot 
and  ought  not  to  be  choosers,  it  is 
far  better  to  fill  the  plates  and  send 
them  round,  rather  than  ask  each 
individual  what  particular  part  they 
would  prefer ;  and  if  in  a  larger  com- 
pany a  similar  plan  were  introduced, 
it  would  be  attended  with  many  ad- 
vantages. A  dexterous  carver,  would 
help  half  a  dozen  people  in  less  time 
than  is  often  wasted  in  making  civil 
faces  to  a  single  guest.  He  will  also 
cut  fair,  and  observe  an  equitable 
distribution  of  the  dainties  he  is 
serving  out.  It  would  ^ave  much 
time,  if  poultry,  especially  large  tur- 
keys and  geese,  y^ere  sent  to  table 
seady  cut  up.  When  a  lady  pre- 
rides,  the  carving  knife  should  be 
K  05 


CAR 


CAR 


light,  of  a  middling  size,  and  of  a 
line  edge.  Strength  is  less  required 
than  address,  in  the  manner  of  using, 
it ;  and  to  facilitate  this,  the  but- 
cher should  be  ordered  to  divide  the 
joints  of  the  bones,  especially  of  the 
neck,  breast,  and  loin  of  mutton, 
lamb,  and  veal ;  which  may  then  be 
easily  cut  into  thin  slices  attached 
to  the  adjoining  bones.  If  the  whole 
of  the  meat  belonging  to  each  bone 
should  be  too  thick,  a  small  slice 
may  be  taken  off  between  every  two 
bones.  The  more  fleshy  joints,  as 
fillet  of  veal,  leg  or  saddle  of  mut- 
ton and  beef,  are  to  be  helped  in 
thin  slices,  neatly  cut  and  smooth  ; 
observing  to  let  the  knife  pass  down 
to  the  bone  in  the  mutton  and  beef 
joints.  The  dish  should  not  be  too 
far  off  the  carver,  as  it  gives  an 
awkward  appearance,  and  makes 
the  task  more  difficult.  In  helping 
fish,  take  care  not  to  break  the  flakes ; 
which  in  cod  and  very  fresh  salmon 
are  large,  and  contribute  much  to 
the  beauty  of  its  appearance.  A 
fish  knife,  not  being  sharp,  divides 
it  best  on  this  account.  Help  a  part 
of  the  roe,  milt  or  liver,  to  each  per- 
son. The  heads  of  carp,  part  of 
those  of  cod  and  salmon,  sounds  of 
cod,  and  fins  of  turbot,  are  likewise 
esteemed  niceties,  and  are  to  be  at- 
tended to  accordingly.  In  cutting 
up  any  wild  fowl,  duck,  goose,  or 
turkey,  for  a  large  party,  if  you  cut 
the  slices  down  from  pinion  to  pi- 
nion, without  making  wings,  there 
will  be  more  prime  pieces.  But  that 
the  reader  may  derive  the  full  ad- 
vantage of  these  remarks,  we  shall 
descend  to  particulars,  and  illustrate 
the  subject  with  a  variety  of  inter- 
esting Plates,  which  will  show  at  the 
same  time  the  manner  in  which  game 
and  poultry  should  be  trussed  and 

dished. Cod's  head.      Fish  in 

general  requires  very  little  carving, 
llie  fleshy  parts  being  those  princi- 
pally esteemed.  A  cod's  head  and 
shoulders,  when  in  season,  and  pro - 
66 


perly  boiled,  is  a  very  genteel  and 
handsome  dish.  When  cut,  it  should 
be  done  with  a  fish  trowel,  and  the 
parts  about  the  backbone  on  the 
shoulders  are  the  firmest  and  the 
best.  Take  off"  a  piece  quite  down 
to  the  bone,  in  the  direction  cr,  6,  c, 
d,  putting  in  the  spoon  at  a,  c,  and 
with  each  slice  of  fish  give  a  piece 
of  the  sound,  which  lies  underneath 
the  backbone  and  lines  it,  the  meat 
of  which  is  thin,  and  a  little  darker 
coloured  than  the  body  of  the  fish 
itself.  This  may  be  got  by  pass  ng 
a  knife  or  spoon  underneath,  in  ihe 
direction  of  rf,y.  About  the  head 
are  many  delicate  parts,  and  a  grea*: 
deal  of  the  jelly  kind.  The  jelly 
part  lies  about  the  jaw,  bones,  and 
the  firm  parts  within  the  head.  Some 
are  fond  of  the  palate,  and  others 
the  tongue,  which  likewise  may  be 
got  by  putting  a  spoon  into  the 
mouth. — — Edge  bone  of  Beef. 
Cut  off^  a  slice  an  inch  thick  all  the 
length  from  a  to  6,  in  the  figure  op- 
posite, and  then  help.  The  soft  fat 
which  resembles  marrow,  lies  at  the 
back  of  the  bone,  below  c ;  the  firm 
fat  must  be  cut  in  horizontal  slices 
at  the  edge  of  the  meat  d.  It  is 
proper  to  ask  which  is  preferred,  as 
tastes  diflfer.  The  skewer  that  keeps 
the  meat  properly  together  when 
boiling  is  here  shewn  at  a.  This 
should  be  drawn  out  before  it  is 
served  up  ;  or,  if  it  is  necessary  to 
leave  the  skewer  in,  put  a  silver  one. 
Sirloin  of  Beef  may  be  be- 
gun either  at  the  end,  or  by  cutting 
into  the  middle.  It  is  usual  to  en- 
quire whether  the  outside  or  the  in- 
side is  preferred.  For  the  outside, 
the  slice  should  be  cut  down  to  the 
bones  ;  and  the  same  with  every  fol- 
lowing helping.  Slice  the  inside 
likewise,  and  give  with  each  piece 
some  of  the  soft  fat.  The  inside 
done  as  follows  eats  excellently. 
Have  ready  some  shalot  vinegar 
boiling  hot :  mince  the  meat  large, 
and  a  good  deal  of  the  fat ;  spriYikle 


CAR 


CAR 


it  with  salt,  and  pour  the  slialot 
vinegar  and  the  gravy  on  it.  Help 
with  a  spoon,  as  quickly  as  possi- 
ble, on  hot  plates. Round  or 

BUTTOCK  OF  Beef  is  cut  in  the 
same  way  as  fillet  of  veal,  in  the 
next  article.  It  should  be  kept  even 
all  over.  When  helping  the  fat,  ob- 
serve not  to  hack  it,  but  cut  it 
smooth.  A  deep  slice  should  be  cut 
oft' the  beef  before  you  begin  to  help, 
as  directed  above  for  the  edge-bone. 

Fillet  of  Veal.     In  an  ox, 

this  part  is  round  of  beef.  Ask  whe- 
ther the  brown  outside  be  liked, 
otherwise  help  the  next  slice.  The 
bone  is  taken  out,  and  the  meat  tied 
close,  before  dressing,  which  makes 
the  fillet  very  solid.  It  should  be 
cut  thin,  and  very  smooth.  A  stuf- 
fing is  put  into  the  flap,  which  com- 
pletely covers  it ;  you  must  cut  deep 
into  this,  and  help  a  thin  slice;  as 
likewise  of  fat.  From  carelessness 
in  not  covering  the  latter  with  paper, 
it  is  sometimes  dried  up,  to  the  great 

disappointment  of  the  carver. 

Breast  of  Veal.  One  part,  called 
the  brisket,  is  thick  and  gristly  ;  put 
the  knife  about  four  inches  from  the 
edge  of  this,  and  cut  through  it, 
which  will  separate  the  ribs  from  the 

brisket. Calf's    Head    has    a 

great  deal  of  meat  upon  it,  if  pro- 
perly managed.  Cut  slices  from  a 
to  b,  letting  the  knife  go  close  to  the 
bone.  In  the  fleshy  part,  at  the  neck 
end  c,  there  lies  the  throat  sweet- 
bread, which  you  should  help  a  slice 
of  from  c  to  d  with  the  other  part. 
Many  like  the  eye,  which  must  be 
cut  out  with  the  point  of  a  knife, 
and  divided  in  two.  If  the  jaw-bone 
be  taken  off^,  there  will  be  found 
some  fine  lean.  Under  the  head  is 
the  palate,  which  is  reckoned  a  ni- 
cety ;  the  lady  of  the  house  should 
be  acquainted  with  all  things  that 
are  thought  so,  that  she  may  distri- 
bute them   among  her  guests. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton.  This  is 
a  very  good  joint,  and  by  many  pre- 
ferred to  the  leg;  it  being  very  full 


of  gravy,  if  properly  roasted,  and 
produces  many  nice  bits.  The  fi- 
gure represents  it  as  laid  in  the  dish 
with  its  back  uppermost.  When  it 
is  first  cut,  it  should  be  in  the  hol- 
low part  of  it,  in  the  direction  of  a, 
6,  and  the  knife  should  be  passed 
deep  to  the  bone.  The  prime  part 
of  the  fat  lies  on  the  outer  edge,  and 
is  to  be  cut  out  in  thin  slices  in  the 
direction  e.  If  many  are  at  table, 
and  the  hollow  part  cut  in  the  line 
a,  b,  is  eaten,  some  very  good  and 
delicate  slices  may  be  cut  out  on 
each  side  the  ridge  of  the  blade- 
bone,  in  the  direction  c,  d.  The  line 
between  these  two  dotted  lines,  is 
that  in  the  direction  of  which  the 
edge  or  ridge  of  the  blade-bone  lies, 

and   cannot  be  cut  across. Leg 

OF  Mutton.  -A  leg  of  wether  mut- 
ton, which  is  the  best  flavoured,  may 
be  known  by  a  round  lump  of  fat  at 
the  edge  of  the  broadest  part,  as  at 
a.     The  best  part  is  in  the  midway, 
at  '6,  between  the  knuckle  and  fur- 
ther end.     Begin  to  help   there,  by 
cutting  thin  deep  slices  to  c.     If  the 
outside  is  not  fat  enough,  help  some 
from  the  side  of  the  broad  end  in 
slices  from  e  to/.    This  part  is  most 
juicy  ;  but  many  prefer  the  knuckle, 
which  in   fine  mutton  will   be  very 
tender  though  dry.     There  are  very 
fine   slices  on  the  back  of  the  leg  : 
turn  it  up,  and   cut  the  broad  end, 
not  in  the  direction  you  did  the  other 
side,  but  longways.     To  cut  out  the 
cramp  bone\  take  hold  of  the  shank 
with  your  left  hand,  and  cut  down 
to  the  thigh  bone  at  d ;  then  pass 
the  knife  under  the  cramp   bone  in 
the  direction,  d,  g. Fo.fiE  quar- 
ter of  Lamb.  Separate  the  should- 
er from   the   scoven,   which  is  the 
breast  and  ribs,  by  passing  the  knife 
under  in  the  direction  of  a,  b,  c,  d ; 
keeping  it  towards  you  horizontally, 
to  prevent  cutting  the  meat  too  much 
off^  the  bones.     If  grass  lamb,  the 
shoulder  being  large,  put  it  into  ano- 
ther dish.    Squeeze  the  juice  of  half 
a  Seville    orange  or  lemon  on  the 
67 


CAR 


CAR 


other  part,  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt 
and  pepper.  Then  separate  the 
gristly  part  from  the  ribs  in  the  line 
e,  c ;  and  help  either  from  that  or 

from  the  ribs,  as  may  be  chosen. 

Haunch  of  Venison.  Cut  down 
to  the  bone  in  the  line  a,  6,  c,  to  let 
out  the  gravy.  Then  turn  the  broad 
end  of  the  haunch  toward  you,  put 
in  the  knife  at  6,  and  cut  as  deep  as 
you  can  to  the  end  of  the  haunch  d; 
then  help  in  thin  slices,  observing  to 
give  some  fat  to  each  person.  There 
is  more  fat,  which  is  a  favourite 
part,  on  the  left  side  of  c  and  d  than 
on  the  other  :  and  those  who  help 
must  take  care  to  proportion  it,  as 
likewise  the  gravy,  according  to  the 
number  of  the  company. — Haunch 
OF  Mutton  is  the  leg  and  part  of 
the  loin,  cut  so  as  to  resemble  a 
haunch  of  venison,  and  is  to  behelp- 

ed  at  table  in  the  same  manner. 

Saddle  of  Mutton.  Cut  long 
thin  slices  from  the  tail  to  the  end, 
beginning  close  to  the  back  bone. 
If  a  large  joint,  the  slice  may  be  di- 
vided.   Cut  some  fat  from  the  sides. 

Ham  may  be  cut  three  ways. 

The  common  method  is,  to  begin  in 
the  middle,  by  long  slices  from  a  to 
6,  from  the  centre  through  the  thick 
fat.  This  brings  to  the  prime  at 
first,  which  is  likewise  accomplished 
by  cutting  a  small  round  hole  on  the 
top  of  the  ham,  as  at  c,  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  enlarging  that  by  cutting 
successive  thin  circles  :  this  pre- 
serves the  gravy,  and  keeps  the  meat 
moist.  The  last  and  most  saving 
way  is,  to  begin  at  the  hock  end, 
which  many  are  most  fond  of,  and 
proceed  onwards.  Ham  that  is  used 
for  pies,  &c.  should  be  cut  from  the 
under  side,  first  taking  off  a  thick 

slice. Sucking  Pig.   The  cook 

usually  divides  the  body  before  it  is 
sent  to  table,  and  garnishes  the  dish 
with  the  jaws  and  ears.  The  first 
thing  is,  to  separate  a  shoulder  from 
the  carcase  on  one  side,  and  then 
the  leg,  according  to  the  direction 
given  by  the  dotted  line  a,  b,  c.  The 
*6B 


ribs  are  then  to  be  divided  into 
about  two  helpings,  and  an  ear  or 
jaw  presented  with  them,  and  plenty 
of  sauce.  The  joints  may  either  be 
divided  into  two  each,  or  pieces  may 
be  cut  from  them.  The  ribs  are 
reckoned  the  finest  part,  but  some 
people  prefer  the  neck  end,  between 

the  shoulders. Goose.    Cut  off 

the  apron  in  the  circular  line  a,  by  c, 
and  pour  into  the  body  a  glass  of 
port  wine,  and  a  large  tea-spoonful 
of  mustard,  first  mixed  at  the  side- 
board. Turn  the  neck  end  of  the 
goose  towards  you,  and  cut  the 
whole  breast  in  long  slices  from  one 
wing  to  another  ;  but  only  remove 
them  as  you  help  each  person,  un- 
less the  company  is  so  large  as  to 
require  the  legs  likewise.  This  way 
gives  more  prime  bits  than  by  mak- 
ing wings.  Take  off  the  leg,  by 
putting  the  fork  into  the  small  end 
of  the  bone,  pressing  it  to  the  body  ; 
and  having  passed  the  knife  at  d, 
turn  the  leg  back,  and  if  a  young 
bird,  it  will  easily  separate.  To 
take  off  the  wing,  put  your  fork  into 
the  small  end  of  the  pinion,  and 
press  it  close  to  the  body  ;  then  put 
in  the  knife  at  rf,  and  divide  the 
joint,  taking  it  down  in  the  direc- 
tion dy  e.  Nothing  but  practice 
will  enable  people  to  hit  the  joint 
dexterously.  When  the  leg  and 
wing  of  one  side  are  done,  go  on  to 
the  other  ;  but  it  is  not  often  neces- 
sary to  cut  up  the  whole  goose,  un- 
less the  company  be  very  large. 
There  are  two  side  bones  by  the 
wing,  which  may  be  cut  off;  as  like- 
wise the  back  and  lower  side  bones  : 
but  the  best  pieces  are  the  breast 
and  the  thighs,  after  being  divided 

from    the    drum-sticks. Hare. 

The  best  way  of  cutting  it  up  is,  to 
put  the  point  of  the  knife  under  the 
shoulder  at  a,  and  so  cut  all  the  way 
down  to  the  rump,  on  one  side  ot 
the  back-bone,  in  the  line  «,  b.  Do 
the  same  on  the  other  side,  so  that 
the  whole  hare  will  be  divided  into 
three  parts.    Cut  the  back  into  four. 


CAR 


CAR 


which  with  the  legs  is  the  part  most 
esteemed.  The  shoulder  must  be 
cut  off  in  a  circular  line,  as  c,  cf,  a. 
Lay  the  pieces  neatly  on  the  dish  as 
you  cut  them;  and  then  help  the 
company,  giving  some  pudding  and 
gravy  to  every  person.  This  way 
can  only  be  practised  when  the  hare 
is  young.  If  old,  do  not  divide  it 
down,  which  will  require  a  strong 
arm  :  but  put  the  knife  between  the 
leg  and  back,  and  give  it  a  little  turn 
inwards  at  the  joint;  which  you 
must  endeavour  to  hit,  and  not  to 
break  by  force.  When  both  legs  are 
taken  off,  there  is  a  fine  coUop  on 
each  side  the  back  ;  then  divide  the 
back  into  as  many  pieces  as  you 
please,  and  take  of  the  shoulders, 
which  are  by  many  preferred,  and 
are  called  the  sportman's  pieces. 
When  every  one  is  helped,  cut  off 
the  head  ;  put  your  knife  between 
the  upper  and  lower  jaw,  and  di- 
vide them,  which  will  enable  you  to 
lay  the  upper  one  flat  on  your  plate  ; 
then  put  the  point  of  the  knife  into 
the  centre,  and  cut  the  head  into 
two.  The  ears  and  brains  may  be 
helped  then  to  those  who  like  them. 
•—Carve  Rabbits  as  directed  the 
latter  way  for  hare  ;  cutting  the  back 
into  two  pieces,  which  with  the  legs 

are  the  prime. A  Fowl.     The 

legs  of  a  boiled  fowl  are  bent  in- 
wards, and  tucked  into  the  belly  ; 
but  before  it  is  served,  the  skewers 
are  to  be  removed.  Lay  the  fowl  on 
your  plate  ;  and  place  the  joints,  as 
cut  off,  on  the  dish.  Take  the  wing 
off  in  the  direction  of  a  to  6,  in  the 
annexed  engraving,  only  dividing 
the  joint  with  your  knife  ;  and  then 
with  your  fork  lift  up  the  pinion, 
and  draw  the  wing  towards  the  legs, 
and  the  muscles  will  separate  in  a 
more  complete  form  than  if  cut. 
Slip  the  knife  between  the  leg  and 
body,  and  cut  to  the  bone ;  then 
with  the  fork  turn  the  leg  back,  and 
the  joint  will  give  way  if  the  bird  is 
not  old.  When  the  four  quarters 
are  thus  removed,  take  off  the  merry- 


thought from  a,  and  the  neck  bones  ; 
these  last  by  putting  in  the  knife  at 
c,  and  pressing  it  under  the  long 
broad  part  of  the  bone  in  the  line  c, 
h.  Then  lift  it  up,  and  break  it  off 
from  the  part  that  sticks  to  the 
breast.  The  next  thing  is,  to  divide 
the  breast  from  the  carcase,  by  cut- 
ting through  the  tender  ribs  close 
to  the  breast,  quite  down  to  the  tail. 
Then  lay  the  back  upwards,  put 
your  knife  into  the  bone  half-way 
from  the  neck  to  the  rump,  and  on 
raising  the  lower  end  it  will  separate 
readily.  Turn  the  rump  from  you, 
and  very  neatly  take  off  the  two 
sidebones,  and  the  whole  will  be 
done.  As  each  part  is  taken  off',  it 
should  be  turned  neatly  on  the  dish, 
and  care  should  be  taken  that  what 
is  left  goes  properly  from  table. 
The  breast  and  wings  are  looked 
upon  as  the  best  parts,  but  the  legs 
are  most  juicy  in  young  fowls.  After 
all,  more  advantage  will  be  gained 
by  observing  those  who  carve  well, 
and  a  little  practice,  than  by  any 

written   directions   whatever. A 

Pheasant.  The  bird  in  the  an- 
nexed engraving  is  as  trussed  for  the 
spit,  with  its  head  under  one  of  its 
wings.  When  the  skewers  are  taken 
out,  and  the  bird  served,  the  follow- 
ing is  the  way  to  carve  it.  Fix  a 
fork  in  the  centre  of  the  breast ; 
slice  it  down  in  the  line  a,  6;  take 
off  the  leg  on  one  side  in  the  dotted 
line  6,  d ;  then  cut  off  the  wing  on 
the  same  side  in  the  line  c,  d.  Se- 
parate the  leg  and  wing  on  the  other 
side,  and  then  cut  off  the  slices  of 
breast  you  divided  before.  Be  care- 
ful how  you  take  off  the  wings  ;  for 
if  you  should  cut  too  near  the  neck, 
as  at  g,  you  will  hit  on  the  neck- 
bone,  from  which  the  wing  must  be 
separated.  Cut  off  the  merrythought 
in  the  line/,  ^,  by  p'assing  the  knife 
under  it  towards  the  neck.  Cut  the 
other  parts  as  in  a  fowl.  The  breast, 
wings,  and  merrythought,  are  the 
most  esteemed  ;  but  the  leg  has  a 
higher  flavour. — Partridge.  The 


CAT 


CAT 


partridge  is  here  represented  as  just 
taken  from  the  spit ;  but  before  it  is 
served  up,  the  skewers  must  be 
withdrawn.  It  is  cut  up  in  the 
same  manner  as  a  fowl.  The  wings 
must  be  taken  off  in  the  line  a,  b, 
and  the  merrythought  in  the  line  c, 
d.  The  prime  parts  of  a  partridge 
are  the  wings,  breast,  and  merry- 
thought ;  but  the  bird  being  small, 
the  two  latter  are  not  often  divided. 
The  wing  is  considered  as  the  best, 
and  the  tip  of  it  reckoned  the  most 

delicate  morsel  of  the  whole. 

Pigeons.  Cut  them  in  half,  either 
from  top  to  bottom  or  across.  The 
lower  part  is  generally  thought  the 
best ;  but  the  fairest  way  is  to  cut 
from  the  neck  to  a,  rather  than  from 
c  to  b,  by  a,  which  is  the  most  fa- 
shionable. The  figure  represents 
the  back  of  the  pigeon  ;  and  the 
direction  of  the  knife  is  in  the  line 
c,  b,  by  a,  if  done  the  last  way. 

CASKS.  New  casks  are  apt  to 
give  beer  a  bad  taste,  if  not  well 
scalded  and  seasoned  before  they  are 
used.  Boil  therefore  two  pecks  of 
brain  or  malt  dust  in  a  copper  of  wa- 
ter, pour  it  hot  into  the  cask,  stop 
it  close,  and  let  it  stand  two  days. 
Then  wash  it  clean,  and  dry  it  fit  for 
use.  Old  casks  are  apt  to  grow 
musty,  if  allowed  to  stand  by  neg- 
lected ;  they  should  therefore  be 
closely  stopped  as  soon  as  emptied. 
When  tainted,  put  in  some  lime,  fill 
up  with  water,  and  let  them  stand  a 
day  or  two.  If  this  be  not  sufficient, 
the  head  must  be  taken  out,  the  in- 
side well  scoured,  and  the  head  re- 
placed. 

CATERPILLARS.  These  noxious 
insects,  sustained  by  leaves  and  fruit, 
have  been  known  in  all  ages  and 
nations  for  their  depredations  on  the 
vegetable  world.  In  August  and 
September  they  destroy  cabbages 
and  turnips  in  great  abundance,  and 
commit  their  ravages  in  fields  and 
gardens  whenever  the  easterly  winds 
prevail.  Various  means  have  been 
devised  for  their  destruction,  and 
70 


any  of  the  following  which  may  hap- 
pen to  be  the  most  convenient,  may 
be  employed  with  very  good  efl^ect. 
Mix  and  heat  three  quarts  of  water 
and  one  quart  of  vinegar,  put  in  a 
full  pound  of  soot,  and  stir  it  with  a 
whisk  till  the  whole  is  incorporated. 
Sprinkle  the  plants  with  this  prepa- 
ration, every  morning  and  evening, 
by  dipping  in  a  brush  and  shedding 
it  over  them;  and  in  a  few  days  all 
the  cankers  will  disappear.  Or  sow 
with  hemp  all  the  borders  where 
cabbages  are  planted,  so  as  to  en- 
close them,  and  not  one  of  these 
vermin  will  approach.  When  goose- 
berry or  currant  bushes  are  attack- 
ed, a  very  simple  expedient  will  suf- 
fice. Put  pieces  of  woollen  rags  in 
every  bush,  the  caterpillars  will  take 
refuge  in  them  during  the  night,  and 
in  the  morning  quantities  of  them 
may  thus  be  taken  and  destroyed. 
If  this  do  not  succeed,  dissolve  an 
ounce  of  alum  in  a  quart  of  tobacco 
liquor  ;  and  as  soon  as  the  leaves  of 
the  plants  or  bushes  appear  in  the 
least  corroded,  sprinkle  on  the  mix- 
ture with  a  brush.  If  any  eggs  be 
deposited,  they  never  come  forward 
after  this  application  ;  and  if  chang- 
ed into  worms  they  will  sicken  and 
die,  and  fall  off.  Nothing  is  more 
effectual  than  to  dust  the  leaves  of 
plants  with  sulphur  put  into  a  piece 
of  muslin,  or  thrown  upon  them  with 
a  dredging  box :  this  not  only  de- 
stroys the  insects,  but  materially 
promotes  the  health  of  the  plants. 
When  caterpillars  attack  fruit  trees, 
they  may  be  destroyed  by  a  strong 
decoction  of  equal  quantities  of  rue, 
wormwood,  and  tobacco,  sprinkled 
on  the  leaves  and  branches  while  the 
fruit  is  ripening.  Or  take  a  chafing- 
dish  of  burning  charcoal,  place  it 
under  the  branches  of  the  bush  or 
tree,  and  throw  on  it  a  little  brim- 
stone. The  vapour  of  the  sulphur, 
and  thesuffbcating  fume  arising  from 
the  charcoal,  will  not  only  destroy 
all  the  insects,  but  prevent  the  plants 
from  being  infested  with  them  any 


cmv 


CAY 


more  that  season.  Black  cankers, 
which  commit  great  devastation 
among  turnips,  are  best  destroyed 
by  turning  a  quantity  of  ducks  into 
the  held  infested  by  them.  Every 
fourth  year  these  cankers  become 
flies,  when  they  deposit  their  eggs 
on  the  ground,  and  thus  produce 
maggots.  The  flies  on  their  first 
appearance  settle  on  the  trees,  es- 
pecially the  oak,  elm,  and  maple  : 
in  this  state  they  should  be  shaken 
down  on  packsheets,  and  destroyed. 
If  this  were  done  before  they  begin 
to  deposit  their  eggs  on  the  ground, 
the  ravages  of  the  canker  would  in 
a  great  measure  be  prevented. 

CAUDLE.  Make  a  fine  smooth 
gruel  of  half  grits,  strain  it  after  be- 
ing well  boiled,  and  stir  it  at  times 
till  quite  cold.  When  to  be  used, 
add  sugar,  wine,  lemon  peel  and 
nutmeg.  A  spoonful  of  brandy  may 
be  added,  and  a  little  lemon  juice  if 
approved.  Another  way  is  to  boil 
up  half  a  pint  of  fine  gruel,  with  a 
bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  nut- 
meg, a  spoonful  of  brandy,  the  same 
of  white  wine,  one  of  capillaire,  a 
bit  of  lemon  peel  and  nutmeg. — 
Another.  Beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
with  sugar,  mix  it  with  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  cold  water,  a  glass  of  wine, 
and  nutmeg.  Mix  it  by  degrees  with 
a  pint  of  fine  gruel,  not  thick,  but 
while  it  is  boiling  hot.  This  caudle 
is  very  agreeable  and  nourishing. 
Some  add  a  glass  of  beer  and  sugar, 
or  a  tea-spoonful  of  brandy. — A 
caudle  for  the  sick  and  lying-in  is 
made  as  follows.  Set  three  quarts 
of  water  on  the  fire,  mix  smooth  as 
much  oatmeal  as  will  thicken  the 
whole,  with  a  pint  of  cold  water  ; 
and  when  the  water  boils  pour  in 
the  thickening,  and  add  twenty  pep- 
percorns in  fine  powder.  Boil  it  up 
to  a  tolerable  thickness  ;  then  add 
sugar,  half  a  pint  of  good  table  beer, 
and  a  glass  of  gin,  all  heated  up  to- 
gether. 

CAULIFLOWERS.  Choose  those 
that  are  close  and  white,  cut  off  the 


green  leaves,  and  see  that  there  be 
no  caterpillars  about  the  stalk.  Soak 
them  an  hour  in  cold  water,  then 
boil  them  in  milk  and  water,  and 
take  care  to  skim  the  saucepan,  that 
not  the  least  foulness  may  fall  on 
the  flower.  The  vegetable  should  be 
served  very  white,  and  not  boiled  too 
much. — Cauhflower  dressed  iii  white 
sauce  should  be  half  boiled,  and  cut 
into  handsome  pieces.  Then  lay 
them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  little  broth, 
a  bit  of  mace,  a  little  salt,  and  a 
dust  of  white  pepper.  Simmer  them 
together  half  an  hour ;  then  add  a 
little  cream,  butter,  and  flour.  Sim- 
mer a  few  minutes  longer,  and  serve 
them  up. — To  dress  a  cauliflower 
with  parmesan,  boil  the  vegetable, 
drain  it  on  a  sieve,  and  cut  the  stalk 
so  that  the  flower  will  stand  upright 
about  two  inches  above  the  dish. 
Put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little 
white  sauce,  and  in  a  few  minutes  it 
will  be  done  enough.  Then  dish  it 
with  the  sauce  round,  put  parmesan 
grated  over  it,  and  brown  it  with  a 
salamander. 

CAULIFLOWERS  RAGOUT.  Pick 
and  wash  the  cauliflowers  very  clean, 
stew  them  in  brown  gravy  till  they 
are  tender,  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Put  them  in  a  dish,  pour 
gravy  on  them,  boil  some  sprigs  of 
cauliflower  white,  and  lay  round. 

CAYENNE.  Those  who  are  fond 
of  this  spice  had  better  make  it 
themselves  of  English  capsicums  or 
chillies,  for  there  is  no  other  way  of 
being  sure  that  it  is  genuine.  Pep- 
per of  a  much  finer  flavour  may  be 
obtained  in  this  way,  without  half 
the  heat  of  the  foreign  article,  which 
is  frequently  adulterated  and  colour- 
ed with  red  lead.  Capsicums  and 
chillies  are  ripe  and  in  good  condi- 
tion, during  the  months  of  Septem- 
ber and  October.  The  flavour  of 
the  chillies  is  superior  to  that  of 
the  capsicums,  and  will  be  good  in 
proportion  as  they  are  dried  as  soon 
as  possible,  taken  care  that  they  be 
not  burnt.  Take  away  the  stalks, 
71 


CEL 


C  H  A 


put  the  pods  into  a  cullender,  and 
set  them  twelve  hours  before  the  fire 
to  dry.  Then  put  them  into  a  mor- 
tar, with  one  fourth  their  weight  of 
salt ;  pound  and  rub  them  till  they 
are  as  fine  as  possible,  and  put  the 
powder  into  a  well-stopped  bottle. 
A  hundred  large  chillies  will  pro- 
duce about  two  ounces  of  cayenne. 
When  foreign  cayenne  is  pounded, 
it  is  mixed  with  a  considerable  por- 
tion of  salt,  to  prevent  its  injuring 
the  eyes  :  but  English  chillies  may 
be  pounded  in  a  deep  mortar  with- 
out any  danger,  and  afterwards 
passed  through  a  fine  sieve. 

CELERY  SAUCE.  Cut  small  half 
a  dozen  heads  of  clean  white  celery, 
with  two  sliced  onions.  Put  them 
into  a  stewpan,  with  a  small  piece 
of  butter,  and  sweat  them  over  a 
slow  fire  till  quite  tender.  Add  two 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  half  a  pint  of 
broth,  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little 
cream  or  milk.  Boil  it  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  and  pass  it  through  a  fine 
hair  sieve  with  the  back  of  a  spoon. 
When  celery  is  not  in  season,  a  quar- 
ter of  a  dram  of  celery  seed,  or  a 
little  of  the  essence,  will  impregnate 
half  a  pint  of  sauce  with  all  the  fla- 
vour of  the  vegetable.  This  sauce 
is  intended  for  boiled  turkey,  veal, 
tor  fowls. 

CELERY  SOUP.  Split  half  a 
dozen  heads  of  celery  into  slips 
about  two  inches  long,  wash  them 
well,  drain  them  on  a  hair  sieve,  and 
put  them  into  a  soup  pot,  with  three 
quarts  of  clear  gravy.  Stew  it  very 
gently  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  about 
an  hour,  till  the  celery  is  tender.  If 
any  scum  arise,  take  it  off,  and  sea- 
son with  a  little  salt.  When  celery 
cannot  be  procured,  half  a  dram  of 
the  seed,  pounded  fine,  will  give  a 
flavour  to  the  soup,  if  put  in  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  before  it  is  done.  A 
little  of  the  essence  of  the  celery  will 
answer  the  same  purpose. 

CELLARS.  Beer  and  ale  that 
have  been  well  brewed,  are  often  in- 
jured or  spoiled  in  the  keeping,  for 
72 


want  of  paying  proper  attention  to 
the  state  of  the  cellar.  It  is  neces- 
sary however  to  exclude  as  much  as 
possible  all  external  air  from  these 
depositaries,  as  the  state  of  the  sur- 
rounding atmosphere  has  a  most 
material  influence  upon  the  liquor, 
even  after  it  has  been  made  a  con- 
siderable time.  If  the  cellar  is  lia- 
ble to  damps  in  the  winter,  it  will 
tend  to  chill  the  liquor,  and  make  it 
turn  flat ;  or  if  exposed  to  the  heat 
of  summer,  it  will  be  sure  to  turn 
sour.  The  great  object  therefore  is 
to  have  a  cellar  that  is  both  cool  and 
dry.  Dorchester  beer,  generally  in 
high  esteem,  owes  much  of  its  fine- 
ness to  this  circumstance.  The  soil 
in  that  county  being  very  chalky,  of 
a  close  texture  and  free  from  damps, 
the  cellars  are  always  cool  and  dry, 
and  the  liquors  are  found  to  keep  in 
the  best  possible  manner.  The 
Nottingham  ale  derives  much  of  its 
celebrity  also  from  the  peculiar  con- 
struction of  the  cellars,  which  are 
generally  excavated  out  of  a  rock  of 
sand-stone  to  a  considerable  depth, 
of  a  circular  or  conical  form,  with 
benches  formed  all  round  in  the 
same  way,  and  on  these  the  barrels 
are  placed  in  regular  succession. 

CERATE.  Half  a  pound  of  white 
wax,  half  a  pound  of  calumine  stone 
finely  powdered,  and  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  olive  oil,  will  make  an  excel- 
lent cerate.  Let  the  calumine  be 
rubbed  smooth  with  some  of  the  oil, 
and  added  to  the  rest  of  the  oil  and 
wax,  which  should  be  previously 
melted  together.  Stir  them  toge- 
ther till  they  are  quite  cold. 

CHARDOONS.  To  dress  char- 
doons,  cut  them  into  pieces  of  six 
inches  long,  and  tie  them  in  a  bunch. 
Boil  them  tender,  then  flour  and 
fry  them  with  a  piece  of  butter,  and 
when  brown  serve  them  up.  Or  tie 
them  in  bundles,  and  serve  them  on 
toast  as  boiled  asparagus,  with  but- 
ter poured  over.  Another  way  is 
to  boil  them,  and  then  heat  them  up 
in  fricassee  sauce.     Or  boil  in  salt 


CHE 


CHE 


and  water,  dry  them,  dip  them  into 
butter,  fry,  and  serve  them  up  with 
melted  butter.  Or  having  boiled, 
stew,  and  toss  them  up  with  white 
or  brown  gravy.  Add  a  little  cay- 
<-nne,  ketchup,  and  salt,  and  thicken 
with  a  bit  of  butter  and  flour. 

CHARLOTTE.  Rub  a  baking- 
dish  thick  with  butter,  and  line  the 
bottom  and  sides  with  very  thin  slices 
of  white  bread.  Put  in  layers  of 
apples  thinly  sliced,  strewing  sugar 
between,  and  bits  of  butter,  till  the 
dish  is  full.  In  the  mean  time,  soak 
in  warm  milk  as  many  thin  slices  of 
bread  as  will  cover  the  whole  ;  over 
which  lay  a  plate,  and  a  weight  to 
keep  the  bread  close  on  the  apples. 
To  a  middling  sized  dish  use  half  a 
pound  of  butter  in  the  whole,  and 
hake  slowly  for  three  hours. 

CHEAP  SOUP.  Much  nutricious 
food  might  be  provided  for  the  poor 
and  necessitous,  at  a  very  trifling 
expence,  by  only  adopting  a  plan  of 
frugality,  and  gathering  up  the  frag- 
ments, that  nothing  be  lost.  Save 
the  liquor  in  which  every  piece  of 
meat,  ham,  or  tongue  has  been  boil- 
ed, however  salt ;  for  it  is  easy  to 
use  only  a  part  of  it,  and  to  add  a 
little  fresh  water.  Then,  by  the  ad- 
dition of  more  vegetables,  the  bones 
of  meat  used  in  the  family,  the  pieces 
of  meat  that  come  from  table  on  the 
plates,  and  rice,  Scotch  barley,  or 
oatmeal,  there  will  be  some  gallons 
of  useful  soup  saved.  The  bits  of 
meat  should  only  be  warmed  in  the 
soup,  and  remain  whole  ;  the  bones 
and  sinewy  parts  should  be  boiled 
till  they  yield  their  nourishment. 
If  the  fragments  are  ready  to  put 
into  the  boiler  as  soon  as  the  meat 
is  served,  it  will  save  lighting  the 
fire,  and  a  second  cooking.  Take 
turnips,  carrots,  leeks,  potatoes, 
leaves  of  lettuce,  or  any  sort  of  ve- 
getable that  is  at  hand  ;  cut  them 
small,  and  throw  in  with  the  thick 
part  of  peas,  after  they  have  been 
pulped  for  soup,  and  grits,  or  coarse 
oatmeal,  which  have  been  used  for 
(No.  4.) 


gruef.  Should  the  soup  be  poor  of 
meat,  the  long  boiling  of  the  bones, 
and  different  vegetables,  will  aff'ord 
better  nourishment  than  the  labori- 
ous poor  can  generally  obtain ;  es- 
pecially as  they  are  rarely  tolerable 
cooks,  and  have  not  fuel  to  do  jus- 
tice to  what  they  buy.  In  almost 
every  family  there  is  some  superflu- 
ity ;  and  if  it  be  prepared  with  clean- 
liness and  care,  the  benefit  will  be 
very  great  to  the  receiver,  and  the 
satisfaction  no  less  to  the  giver. 
The  cook  or  servant  should  never  be 
allowed  to  wash  away  as  useless, 
the  peas  or  grits  of  which  soup  or 
gruel  have  been  made,  broken  pota- 
toes, the  green  heads  of  celery,  the 
neclts  and  feet  of  fowls,  and  parti- 
cularly the  shanks  of  mutton  ;  all  of 
which  are  capable  of  adding  flavour  , 
and  richness  to  the  soup.  The 
bones,  heads,  and  fins  of  fish,  con- 
taining a  portion  of  isinglass,  may 
also  be  very  usefully  applied,  by 
stewing  them  in  the  water  in  which 
the  fish  is  boiled,  and  adding  it  to 
the  soup,  with  the  gravy  that  is  left 
in  the  dish.  If  strained,  it  consi- 
derably improves  the  meat  soup, 
particularly  for  the  sick  ;  and  when 
such  are  to  be  supplied,  the  milder 
parts  of  the  spare  bones  and  meat 
should  be  used,  with  very  little  of 
the  liquor  of  the  salt  meats.  If  a 
soup  be  wanted  for  the  weakly  and 
infirm,  put  two  cow  heels  and  a 
breast  of  mutton  into  a  large  pan,  M 
with  four  ounces  of  rice,  one  onion,  " 
twenty  corns  of  Jamaica  pepper, 
and  twenty  black,  a  turnip,  and  car- 
rot, and  four  gallons  of  water.  Co- 
ver it  with  white  paper,  and  bake  it 
six  hours. 

CHEESE.  This  well-known  arti- 
cle of  domestic  consumption,  is  pre- 
pared from  curdled  milk,  cleared 
from  the  whey.  It  differs  very  much 
in  quality  and  flavour,  according  to 
the  pasture  in  which  the  cows  feed, 
and  the  manner  in  which  the  article 
itself  is  made.  The  same  land  rarely 
produces  very  fine  butter,  and  r«- 

L  73 


CHE 


C  H  E 


markably  fine  cheese ;  yet  with  pro- 
per management,   it  may  give  one 
pretty  good,  where  the  other  excels 
in  quality.  Cheese  made  on  the  same 
land,   from  new  milk,  skimmed  or 
mixed  milk,  will  differ  greatly,  not 
only  in  richness,  but  also  in  taste. 
Valuable  cheese  may  be  made  from 
a  tolerable  pasture,  by  taking   the 
whole  of  two  meals  of  milk,   and 
proportioning  the  thickness  of  the 
vat  to  the  quantity,  rather  than  hav- 
ing a  wide  and  flat  one,  as  the  for- 
mer   will   produce    the    mellowest 
cheese.     Th|^  addition  of  a  pound 
of  fresh-made  butter  of  a  good  qua- 
lity, will  cause  the  cheese  made  on 
poor  land  to  be  of  a  very  different 
quality  from  that  usually  produced 
by  it.  A  few  qheeses  thus  made,  when 
the  weather  js  not  extremely   hot, 
and  when  the  cows  are  in  full  feed, 
are  well  adapted  to  the  use  of  the 
parlour.    Cheese  for  common  family 
use  may  very  well  be  produced  by 
two  meals  of  skim,  and  one  of  new 
milk  ;  or  on  good  land,  by  the  skim 
milk  only.     The  principal  ingredi- 
ent in  making  cheese  is  the  rennet, 
maw,  or  inner  part  of  a  calf's  sto- 
mach, which  is  cleaned,  salted,  and 
hung  up  in  paper  bags  to  dry.     The 
night  before  it  is  used,  it  is  washed 
and  soaked  in  a  little  water.     When 
the  milk  is  ready,  being  put  into  a 
large  tub,  warm  a  part  of  it  to  the 
degree  of  new  milk ;  but  if  made  too 
hot,  the  cheese  will  be  tough.    Pour 
in  as  much  rennet  as  will  curdle  the 
milk,  and  then  cover  it  over.     Let  it 
stand  till  completely  turned  ;  then 
strike  the  curd  down  several  times 
with  the  skimming  dish,  and  let  it 
separate,  still  keeping  it  covered. 
There  are  two  modes  of  breaking  the 
curd,  and  there  will  be  a  difference 
in  the  taste  of  the  cheese,  according 
as  either  is  observed.     One  is  to  ga- 
ther it  with  the  hands  vt^y  gently 
towards  the  side  of  the  tub,  letting 
the  whey  pass  through  the  fingers 
till  it.  is  cleared ;  and  lading  it  off 
as  it  collects.     The  other  is,  to  get 
74 


the  whey  from  it  by  early  breaking 
the  curd.    The  last  method  deprives 
it  of  many  of  its  oily  particles,  and 
is  therefore  less  proper.     In  pursu- 
ing the  process,   put  the  vat  on   a 
ladder  over  the  tub,  and  .fill  it  with 
curd    by    means    of    the    skimmer. 
Press  the  curd  close  with  the  hand, 
add  more  as  it  sinks,   and  finally 
leave  it  two  inches  above  the  edge. 
Before  the  vat  is  filled,  the  cheese- 
cloth must  be  laid  at  the  bottom ; 
and  when  full,  drawn  smooth  over 
on  all  sides.     In  salting  the  cheese, 
two  modes  may  be  adopted  ;  either 
by  mixing  it  in  the  curd  while  in  the 
tub,   after  the  whey  is  out,   or  by 
putting  it  in  the  vat,  and  crumbling 
the  curd  all  to  pieces  with  it,  after 
the   first  squeezing   with  the  hand 
has  dried  it.     These  different  me- 
thods prevail  in  the  difl'erent  parts 
of  the  country.     Put  a  board  under 
and  over  the  vat,  and  place  it  in  the 
press  :  in  two  hours  turn  it  out,  and 
put  in  a  fresh  cheesecloth.     Press 
it  again  for  eight  or  nine  hours,  salt 
it  all  over,  and   turn  it  again  in  the 
vat.     Let  it  stand  in  the  press  four- 
teen or  sixteen  hours,  observing  to 
put  the  cheeses  last  made  under- 
most.    Before  putting  them  the  last 
time  into  the  vat,  pare  the  edges  if 
they  do  not  look  smooth.     The  vat 
should  have  holes  at  the  sides,  and 
at  the  bottom,  to  let  all  the  whey 
pass  through.    Put  on  clean  boards, 
and  change  and  scald  them.    When 
cheese  is  made,  care  must  be  taken 
to  preserve  it  sound  and  good.     For 
this  purpose  wash  it  occasionally  in 
warm  whey,  wipe  it  once  a  month, 
and  keep  it  on  a  rack.     If  wanted 
to  ripen  soon,   a  damp  cellar  will 
bring  it  forward.      When  a  whole 
cheese  is  cut,  the  inside  of  the  larger 
quantity  should  be  spread  with  but- 
ter, and  the  outside  wiped,  to  pre- 
serve it.    To  keep  those  in  daily  use 
moist,   let  a  clean  cloth   be  wrung 
out    from   cold   water,    and   wrapt 
round  them  when  carried  from  the 
table.     Dry  cheese  may  be  used  to 


CHE 


ClI  E 


advantage  to  grate  for  serving  with 
macaroni  or  eating  without  ;  and 
any  thing  tending  to  prevent  waste, 
is  of  some  consequence  in  a  system 
of  domestic  economy.  To  preserve 
cheeses  from  decay,  lay  them  in  an 
airy  situation,  and  cover  them  with 
dried  leaves  of  the  yellow  star  of 
Bethlehem.  The  tender  branches 
of  the  common  birch,  will  prevent 
the  ravages  of  mites.  If  cheese  get 
hard,  and  lose  its  flavour,  pour  some 
sweet  wine  over  four  ounces  of 
pearlash,  till  the  liquor  ceases  to 
ferment.  Filter  the  solution,  dip 
into  it  some  clean  linen  cloths,  cover 
the  cheese  with  them,  and  put  in  a 
eool  dry  place.  Turn  the  cheese 
every  day,  repeat  the  application 
for  some  weeks,  and  the  cheese  will 
recover  its  former  flavour  and  good- 
ness. 

CHEESECAKES.  Strain  the  whey 
from  the  curd  of  two  quarts  of  milk  ; 
when  rather  dry,  crumble  it  through 
a  coarse  sieve.  With  six  ounces  of 
fresh  butter,  mix  one  ounce  of 
blanched  almonds  pounded,  a  little 
orange-flower  water,  half  a  glass  of 
raisin  wine,  a  grated  biscuit,  four 
ounces  of  currants,  some  nutmeg  and 
cinnamon  in  fine  powder.  Beat 
them  up  together  with  three  eggs, 
and  half  a  pint  of  cream,  till  quite 
light :  then  fill  the  pattipans  three 
parts  full. — To  make  a  plainer  sort 
of  cJieesecakes,  turn  three  quarts  of 
milk  to  curd  ;  break  it  and  drain  off 
the  whey.  When  quite  dry,  break 
it  in  a  pan,  with  two  ounces  of  but- 
ter, till  perfectly  smooth.  Add  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  thin  cream  or  good 
milk,  a  little  sugar,  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg,  and  three  ounces  of  cur- 
rants.— Another  way  is  to  mix  the 
curd  of  three  quarts  of  milk,  a  pound 
of  currants,  twelve  ounces  of  Lisbon 
sugar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cin- 
namon, the  same  of  nutmeg,  the  peel 
of  one  lemon  chopped  as  fine  as  pos- 
sible, the  yolks  of  eight  and  the 
whites  of  six  eggs,  a  pint  of  scalded 
cream  and  a  glass  of  brandy.     Put 


a  light  thin  puff  paste  in  the  patti- 
pans, and  three  parts  fill  them. 

CHEESE  PUFFS.  Strain  some 
cheese  curd  from  the  whey,  and  beat 
half  a  pint  of  it  fine  in  a  mortar, 
with  a  spoonful  and  a  half  of  flour, 
three  eggs,  but  only  one  white.  Add 
a  spoonful  of  orange-flower  water,  a 
quarter  of  a  nutmeg,  and  sugar  to 
make  it  pretty  sweet.  Lay  a  little 
of  this  paste,  in  small  round  cakes, 
on  a  tin  plate.  If  the  oven  be  hot, 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  will  bake  them. 
Serve  the  pufts  with  pudding  sauce. 

CHERRY  BRANDi.  Stone  ten 
pounds  of  black  cherrie?^  bruise  the 
stones  in  a  mortar,  and  put  them  to 
a  gallon  of  the  best  brandy  Let  it 
stand  a  month  close  covered,  pour 
it  clear  from  the  sedimeyt,  and  bot- 
tle it.  Morella  cherries  managed  in 
this  way  will  make^  a  fine  rich  cor- 
dial. 

CHERRY  JAM.  To  twelve  pounds 
of  ripe  fruit,  Kentish  or  duke  cher- 
ries, weigh  one  pound  of  sugar. 
Break  the  stones  of  part,  and  blancli 
them ;  then  put  them  to  the  fruit 
and  sugar,  and  boil  all  gently  till  the 
jam  comes  clear  from  the  pan.  Pour 
it  into  china  plates  to  come  up  dry 
to  the  table,  and  keep  it  in  boxes 
with  white  paper  between. 

CHERRY  PIE.  This  should  have 
a  mixture  of  other  fruit ;  currants 
or  raspberries,  or  both.  Currant 
pie  is  also  best  with  raspberries. 

CHERRY  WINE.  Mash  some 
ripe  cherries,  and  press  them  through 
a  hair  sieve.  Allow  three  pounds  of 
lump  sugar  to  two  quarts  of  juice, 
stir  them  together  till  the  sugar  is 
dissolved,  and  fill  a  small  barrel 
with  the  liquor.  Add  a  little  brandy, 
close  down  the  bung  when  it  has 
done  hissing,  let  it  stand  six  months 
and  bottle  it  ofi^". 

CHERRIES  IN  BRANDY.  Weigh 
some  fine  morellas,  cut  off"  half  the 
stalk,  prick  them  with  a  new  needle, 
and  drop  them  into  a  jar  or  wide- 
mouth  bottle.  Pound  three  quarters 
of  the  weight  of  sugar  or  white  candy, 
76 


CHE 


CH  1 


and  strew  over;  fill  the  bottle  up 
with  brandy,  and  tie  a  bladder  over. 

CHERVIL  SAUCE.  The  flavour 
of  this  fine  herb,  so  long  a  favourite 
with  the  French  cook,  is  a  strong 
concentration  of  the  combined  taste 
of  parsley  and  fennel,  but  more  aro- 
matic and  agreeable  than  either,  and 
makes  an  excellent  sauce  for  boiled 
poultry  or  fish.  Wash  the  chervil, 
and  pick  it  very  clean  ;  put  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  into  half  a  pint  of 
boiling  water,  boil  the  chervil  about 
ten  minutes,  drain  it  on  a  sieve,  and 
mince  it  very  fine.  Put  it  into  a 
sauce  boat,  mix  with  it  by  degrees 
some  good  melted  butter,  and  send 
it  up  in  the  boat. 

CHESHIRE  CHEESE.  In  pre- 
paring this  article,  the  evening's 
milk  is  not  touched  till  the  next 
morning,  when  the  cream  is  taken 
off  and  warmed  in  a  pan,  heated  with 
boiling  water  ;  one  third  part  of  the 
milk  is  heated  in  a  similar  manner. 
The  cows  being  milked  early  in  the 
morning,  the  new  milk,  and  that  of 
the  preceding  night  thus  prepared, 
are  poured  into  a  large  tub  along  with 
the  cream.  A  piece  of  rennet  kept 
in  lukewarm  water  since  the  preced- 
ing evening,  is  put  into  the  tub  in 
order  to  curdle  the  milk,  and  the 
curd  is  coloured  by  an  infusion  of 
marigolds  or  carrots  being  rubbed 
into  it.  It  is  then  stirred  together, 
covered  up  warm,  and  allowed  to 
stand  about  half  an  hour  till  it  is 
coagulated  ;  when  it  is  first  turned 
over  with  a  bowl  to  separate  the 
whey  from  the  curds,  and  broken 
soon  after  into  small  pieces.  When 
it  has  stood  some  time,  the  whey  is 
taken  out,  and  a  weight  laid  at  the 
bottom  of  the  tub  to  press  out  the 
remainder.  As  soon  as  it  becomes 
more  solid,  it  is  cut  into  slices,  and 
turned  over  several  times  to  extract 
all  the  whey,  and  again  pressed  with 
weights.  Being  taken  out  of  the 
tub,  it  is  broken  very  small,  salted, 
and  put  into  a  cheese  vat.  It  is  then 
strongly  pressed  and  weighted,  and 
7G. 


wooden  skewers  are  placed  round  the 
cheese,  which  are  frequently  drawn 
out.  It  is  then  shifted  out  of  the  vat 
with  a  cloth  placed  at  the  bottom  ; 
and  being  turned  it  is  put  into  the  vat 
again.  The  upper  part  is  next  broken 
by  the  hand  down  to  the  middle,  salt- 
ed, pressed,  weighted,  and  skewered 
as  before,  till  all  the  whey  is  extract- 
ed. The  cheese  is  then  reversed  into 
another  vat,  likewise  warmed  with  a 
cloth  under  it,  and  a  tin  hoop  put 
round  the  upper  part  of  the  cheese. 
These  operations  take  up  the  greater 
part  of  the  forenoon  ;  the  pressing 
of  the  cheese  requires  about  eight 
hours  more,  as  it  must  be  twice  turn- 
ed in  the  vat,  round  which  thin  wire 
skewers  are  passed,  and  shifted  oc- 
casionally. The  next  morning  it 
ought  to  be  turned  and  pressed 
again  ;  and  on  the  following  day 
the  outside  is  salted,  and  a  cloth 
binder  tied  round  it.  The  outsides 
are  sometimes  rubbed  with  butter,  in 
order  to  give  them  a  coat ;  and  be- 
ing turned  and  cleaned  every  day, 
they  are  left  to  dry  two  or  three 
weeks 

CHICKENS.  Fowls  are  chiefly 
considered  as  an  article  of  luxury, 
and  are  generally  sold  at  a  high 
price  ;  yet  the  rearing  of  them  is 
seldom  productive  of  much  pecuni- 
ary advantage.  They  are  liable  to 
innumerable  accidents  in  their  ear- 
ly stages,  which  require  incessant 
watchfulness  and  care  ;  and  if  the 
grain  on  which  they  feed  is  to  be 
purchased,  the  labour  and  expence 
are  scarcely  requited  by  the  price 
they  bear  in  the  market.  The  Irish 
peasantry  are  in  the  habit  of  rearing 
a  great  number  of  fowls,  by  substi- 
tuting the  oiFal  of  potatoes  instead 
of  grain  ;  but  the  flesh  is  neither  so 
firm  nor  so  good  as  that  of  chickens 
raised  in  England.  It  is  much  to  be 
desired  therefore,  that  encoorrage- 
ment  could  be  given  to  the  cottagers 
of  this  counta'y  for  rearing  a  larger 
quantity  of  poultry,  by  means  less 
expensive  than  the  present^  in  order 


CHI 


Cii  I 


that  the  market  might  be  siijipiied  on 
better  terms  with  an  article  of  food 
so  tine  and  delicate,  and  in  such  ge- 
neral respect.  Various  artificial 
means  have  been  used  for  brooding 
chickens,  in  order  to  increase  their 
number,  and  to  bring  them  forward 
at  an  earlier  season,  but  none  of  them 
have  been  found  to  answer,  though 
in  Egypt  immense  quantities  are 
raised  every  year  by  the  heat  of 
ovens,  bringing  the  eggs  to  a  state 
of  maturity.  A  well-fed  hen  is  sup- 
posed to  lay  about  two  hundred  eggs 
in  a  year ;  but  as  she  does  not  sit 
more  than  once  or  tw  ice  in  that  time, 
it  is  but  a  small  quantity  of  chickens 
that  can  be  hatched  in  the  usual  way, 
and  it  would  be  highly  desirable  if 
some  other  expedient  could  be  de- 
vised.— The  most  expeditious  way  of 
fattening  chickens  is  to  mix  a  quan- 
tity of  rice  flour  sufficient  for  pre- 
sent use,  Avith  milk  and  a  little 
coarse  sugar,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire 
till  it  comes  to  a  thick  paste.  Feed 
the  chickens  with  it  while  it  is  warm 
by  putting  as  much  into  their  coops 
as  they  can  eat ;  and  if  a  little  beer 
be  given  them  to  drink,  it  will  fatten 
them  very  soon.  A  mixture  of  oat- 
meal and  treacle  made  into  crumbs 
is  also  good  food  for  chickens  ;  and 
they  are  so  fond  of  it,  that  they  will 
grow  and  fatten  much  faster  than 
in  the  common  way.  Poultry  in  ge- 
neral should  be  fed  in  coops,  and 
kept  very  clean.  Their  common 
food  is  barley  meal  mixed  with  wa- 
ter :  this  should  not  be  put  in  troughs, 
but  laid  upon  a  board,  which  should 
be  washed  clean  every  time  fresh 
food  is  put  upon  it.  The  common 
complaint  of  fowls,  called  the  pip,  is 
chiefly  occasioned  by  foul  and  heat- 
ed water  being  given  them.  No 
water  should  be  allowed,  more  than 
is  mixed  up  with  their  food  ;  but 
they  should  often  be  provided  with 
some  clean  gravel  in  their  coop. — 
The  method  of  fattening  poultry  for 
the  London  market,  is  liable  to  great 
objection.    They  are  put  into  a  dark 


};Ucc,  and  crammed  with  a  paste 
made  of  barley  meal,  mutton  suet, 
treacle  or  coarse  sugar,  mixed  with 
milk,  which  makes  them  ripe  in  about 
a  fortnight ;  but  if  kept  longer,  the 
fever  that  is  iuduced  by  this  conti- 
nual state  of  repletion,  renders  them 
red  and  unsaleable,  and  frequently 
kills  them.  Air  and  exercise  are  as 
indispensable  to  the  health  of  poul- 
try as  to  other  animals ;  and  without 
it,  the  fat  will  be  all  accumulated  in 
the  cellular  membrane,  instead  of 
being  dispersed  throughout  the  sys- 
tem. A  barn-door  fowl  is  prefera- 
ble to  any  other,  only  that  it  cannot 
be  fatted  in  so  short  a  time. 

CHICKEN  BROTH.  Having  boil- 
ed a  chicken  for  panada,  take  off 
the  skin  and  the  rump,  and  put  it 
into  the  water  it  was  boiled  in.  Add 
one  blade  of  mace,  a  slice  of  onion, 
and  ten  corns  of  white  pepper.  Sim- 
mer it  till  the  broth  be  of  a  pleasant 
flavour,  adding  a  little  water  if  ne- 
cessary. Beat  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  sweet  almonds  with  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  w  ater  till  it  is  quite  fine,  boil 
it  in  the  broth,  and  strain  it.  When 
cold,  remove  the  fat.  ^ 

CHICKEN  CURRIE.  Cut  up  the  ^ 
chicken  raw,  slice  onions,  and  fry 
both  in  butter  with  great  care,  of  a 
fine  light  brown ;  or  if  chickens  that 
have  been  dressed  are  used,  fry  only 
the  onions.  Having  cut  the  joints 
into  two  or  three  pieces  each,  lay 
them  in  a  stewpan,  with  veal  or  mut- 
ton gravy,  and  a  clove  or  two  of 
garlic.  Simmer  till  the  chicken  is 
quite  tender.  Half  an  hour  before 
serving  it  up,  rub  smooth  a  spoonful 
or  two  of  currie  powder,  a  spoonful 
of  flour,  and  an  ounce  of  butter; 
and  add  this  to  the  stew,  with  four 
large  spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  a  little 
salt.  Squeeae  in  a  small  lemon, 
when  the  dish  is  going  to  table. — 
A  more  easy  way  to  make  currie  is 
to  cut  up  a  chicken  or  young  rabbit ; 
if  chicken,  take  off  the  skin.  Roll 
each  piece  in  a  mixture  of  a  large 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  half  an  ounce 
77 


CHI 


CHI 


of  currie  powder.  Slice  two  or  three 
onions,  and  fry  them  in  butter,  of  a 
light  brown ;  then  add  the  meat, 
and  fry  all  together  till  the  meat  be- 
gin to  brown.  Put  all  into  a  stew- 
pan,  cover  it  with  boiling  water,  and 
simmer  very  gently  two  or  three 
hours.  If  too  thick,  add  more  water 
half  an  hour  before  serving.  If  the 
meat  has  been  dressed  before,  a 
little  broth  will  be  better  than  water, 
but  the  currie  is  richer  when  made 
of  fresh  meat.  Slices  of  underdone 
veal,  turkey,  or  rabbit,  will  make 
excellent  currie.  A  dish  of  rice 
boiled  dry  should  be  served  with  it. 
CHICKEN  PANADA.  Boil  a 
chicken  in  a  quart  of  water,  till  about 
three  parts  ready.  Take  off  the 
skin,  cut  off  the  white  meat  when 
cold,  and  pound  it  to  a  paste  in  a 
marble  mortar,  with  a  little  of  the 
liquor  it  was  boiled  in.  Season  it 
with  a  little  salt,  a  grate  of  nutmeg, 
and  the  least  bit  of  lemon  peel.  Boil 
it  gently  for  a  few  minutes  till  it  be 
tolerably  thick,  but  so  it  may  be 
drank.  The  flesh  of  a  chicken  thus 
reduced  to  a  small  compass,  will  be 
*%  found  very  nourishing. 

CHICKEN  PIE.  Cut  up  two 
young  fowls,  season  them  with  white 
pepper,  salt,  a  little  mace,  nutmeg, 
and  cayenne,  all  finely  powdered.  Put 
alternately  in  layers  the  chicken,  sli- 
ces of  ham,  or  fresh  gammon  of  ba- 
con, forcemeat  balls,  and  eggs  boiled 
hard.  If  baked  in  a  dish,  add  a  little 
water,  but  none  if  in  a  raised  crust. 
Prepare  some  veal  gravy  from  the 
knuckle  or  scrag,  with  some  shank- 
bones  of  mutton, seasoned  with  herbs, 
onions,  mace,  and  white  pepper,  to 
be  poured  into  the  pie  when  it  re- 
turns from  the  oven.  If  it  is  to  be 
eaten  hot,  truffles,  morels,  and  mush- 
rooms may  be  added ;  but  not  if  it 
is  to  be  eaten  cold.  If  baked  in  a 
raised  crust,  the  gravy  must  be  nice- 
ly strained,  and  then  put  in  cold  as 
jelly.  To  make  the  jelly  clear,  give 
it  a  boil  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
after  taking  awav  the  meat,  and  then 
78 


run  it  through  a  fine  lawn  sieve. — 
Rabbits,  if  young  and  fleshy,  will 
make  as  good  a  pie.  Their  legs 
should  be  cut  short,  and  their  breast- 
bones must  not  go  in,  but  will  help 
to  make  the  gravv. 

CHICKEN  SAUCE.  An  anchovy 
or  two  boned  and  chopped,  some 
parsley  and  onion  chopped,  and 
mixed  together,  with  pepper,  oil,  vi- 
negar, mustard,  walnut  or  mushroom 
ketchup,  will  make  a  good  sauce  for 
cold  chicken,  veal,  or  partridge. 

CHILI  VINEGAR.  Slice  fifty 
English  chilies,  fresh  and  of  a  good 
colour,  and  infuse  them  in  a  pint  of 
the  best  vinegar.  In  a  fortnight, 
this  will  give  a  much  finer  flavour 
than  can  be  obtained  from  foreign 
cayenne,  and  impart  an  agreeable 
relish  to  fish  sauce. 

CHIMNEY  PIECES.  To  blacken 
the  fronts  of  stone  chimney-pieces, 
mix  oil  varnish  with  lamp  black  that 
has  been  sifted,  and  a  little  spirit  of 
turpentine  to  thin  it  to  the  consist- 
ence of  paint.  Wash  the  stone  very 
clean  with  soap  and  water,  and 
sponge  it  with  clear  water.  When 
perfectly  dry,  brush  it  over  twice 
with  this  colour,  leaving  it  to  dry 
between  the  times,  and  it  will  look 
extremely  well. 

CHINA.  Broken  china  may  be 
repaired  with  cement,  made  of  equal 
parts  of  glue,  the  white  of  an  e^g, 
and  white-lead  mixed  together.  The 
juice  of  garlic,  bruised  in  a  stone 
mortar,  is  also  a  fine  cement  for  bro- 
ken glass  or  china ;  and  if  carefully 
applied,  will  leave  no  mark  behind 
it.  Isinglass  glue,  mixed  with  a  lit- 
tle finely  sifted  chalk,  will  answer 
the  same  purpose,  if  the  articles  be 
not  required  to  endure  heat  or  mois- 
ture. 

CHINA  CHILO.  Mince  a  pint- 
basonful  of  undressed  neck  or  leg  of 
mutton,  with  some  of  the  fat.  Put 
into  a  stewpan  closely  covered,  two 
onions,  a  lettuce,  a  pint  of  green 
peas,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  the  same 
quantity  of  pepper,  four  spoonfuls 


CHO 


CHO 


of  water,  and  two  or  three  ounces 
of  clarified  butter.  Simmer  them 
together  two  hours,  add  a  little  cay- 
enne if  approved,  and  serve  in  the 
middle  of  a  dish  of  boiled  dry  rice. 

CHINE  OF  BACON.  One  that 
has  been  salted  and  dried  requires 
to  be  soaked  several  hours  in  cold 
water,  and  scraped  clean.  Then 
take  a  handful  of  beech,  half  as 
much  parsley,  a  few  sprigs  of  thyme, 
and  a  little  sage,  finely  chopped  to- 
gether. Make  some  holes  in  the 
chine  with  the  point  of  a  knife,  fill 
them  with  the  herbs,  skewer  the 
meat  up  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  it  slowly 
about  three  hours.  A  dried  pig's 
face  is  cooked  in  the  same  manner, 
adding  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and 
bread  crumbs  to  the  stuffing. 

CHOCOLATE.  Those  who  use 
much  of  this  article,  will  find  the 
following  mode  of  preparing  it  both 
useful  and  economical.  Cut  a  cake 
of  chocolate  into  very  small  pieces, 
and  put  a  pint  of  water  into  the  pot ; 
when  it  boils,  put  in  the  chocolate. 
Mill  it  off  the  fire  till  quite  melted, 
then  on  a  gentle  fire  till  it  boil ;  pour 
it  into  a  bason,  and  it  will  keep  in  a 
cool  place  eight  or  ten  days  or  more. 
When  wanted,  put  a  spoonful  or  two 
into  some  milk  ;  boil  it  with  sugar, 
and  mill  it  well.  If  not  made  too 
thick,  this  will  form  a  very  good 
breakfast  or  supper. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM.  Scrape 
into  one  quart  of  thick  cream,  an 
ounce  of  the  best  chocolate,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Boil 
and  mill  it :  when  quite  smooth,  take 
it  off  the  fire,  and  leave  it  to  be  cold. 
Then  add  the  whites  of  nine  eggs  ; 
whisk  it,  and  take  up  the  froth  on 
sieves,  as  other  creams  are  done. 
Serve  up  the  froth  in  glasses,  to  rise 
above  some  of  the  cream. 

CHOLIC.  Young  children  are 
often  afflicted  with  griping  pains  in 
the  bowels ;  and  if  attended  with 
costiveness,  it  will  be  necessary  to 
give  them  very  small  doses  of  manna 
and    rhubarb  every  half  hour,   till 


they  produce  the  desired  effect. 
When  the  stools  are  green,  a  few 
drams  of  magnesia,  with  one  or  two 
of  rhubarb,  according  to  the  age  of 
the  patient,  may  be  given  with  ad- 
vantage ;  but  the  greatest  benefit 
will  be  derived  from  clysters  made 
of  milk,  oil  and  sugar,  or  a  solution 
of  white  soap  and  water.  A  poultice 
of  bread,  milk  and  oil,  may  likewise 
be  applied  to  the  lower  part  of  the 
belly,  and  frequently  renewed  with 
a  little  warm  milk  to  give  it  a  proper 
consistence.  The  cholic  in  adults 
arises  from  a  variety  of  causes,  not 
easily  distinguished  except  by  pro- 
fessional persons  ;  and  therefore  it 
is  absolutely  necessary  to  abstain 
from  all  violent  remedies,  or  it  may 
be  attended  with  fatal  consequences. 
Nothing  can  be  applied  with  safety 
but  emollient  clysters  and  fomen- 
tations, and  to  drink  copiously  of 
camomile  tea,  or  any  other  diluting 
liquor,  till  the  spasms  be  relieved, 
and  the  nature  of  the  disease  more 
clearly  understood.  Persons  who 
are  subject  to  the  bilious  cholic  in 
particular,should  abstain  from  acrid, 
watery  and  oily  food,  especially  but-  |p 
ter,  fat  meat,  and  hot  liquors  :  *nd 
pursue  a  calm  and  temperate  course 
of  life. 

CHOPPED  HANDS.  Wash  in 
common  water,  and  then  in  rose  wa- 
ter, a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  hog's 
lard  not  salted  ;  mix  with  it  the 
yolks  of  two  new- laid  eggs,  and  a 
large  spoonful  of  honey.  Add  as 
much  fine  oatmeal,  or  almond  paste, 
as  will  work  it  into  a  paste  ;  and  by 
frequently  rubbing  it  on  the  hands, 
it  will  keep  them  smooth,  and  pre- 
vent their  being  chopped. 

CHOPPED  LIPS.  Put  into  a  new 
tin  saucepan,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  benjamin,  storax,  and  spermaceti, 
two  pennyworth  of  alkanet  root,  a 
large  juicy  apple  chopped,  a  bunch 
of  black  grapes  bruised,  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  unsalted  butter,  and 
two  ounces  of  bees  wax.  Simmer 
them  together  till  all  be  dissolved, 
79 


CHU 


CH  U 


and  strain  it  through  a  linen.  When 
cold  melt  it  again,  and  pour  it  into 
small  pots  or  boxes,  or  make  it  into 
cakes  on  the  bottoms  of  tea-cups. 

CHUMP  OF  VEAL.  To  dress 
it  d-la-daube,  cut  off  the  chump  end 
of  the  loin,  take  out  the  edge  bone, 
stuff  the  hollow  with  good  forcemeat, 
tie  it  up  tight,  and  lay  it  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  the  bone  that  was  taken 
out,  a  little  faggot  of  herbs,  an  an- 
chovy, two  blades  of  mace,  a  few 
white  peppercorns,  and  a  pint  of 
good  veal  broth.  Cover  the  veal 
with  slices  of  fat  bacon,  and  lay  a 
sheet  of  white  paper  over  it.  Cover 
the  pan  close,  simmer  it  two  hours, 
then  take  out  the  bacon,  and  glaze 
the  veal.  Serve  it  on  mushrooms, 
with  sorrel  sauce,  or  any  other  that 
may  be  preferred. 

CHURNING.  In  order  to  pre- 
pare for  this  important  operation, 
the  milk  when  drawn  from  the  cow, 
and  carefully  strained  through  a 
cloth  or  hair  sieve,  should  be  put 
into  flat  wooden  trays  about  three 
inches  deep,  and  perfectly  clean  and 
cool.  The  trays  are  then  to  be 
placed  on  shelves,  till  the  cream  be 
c{«apletely  separated  ;  when  it  is  to 
be  nicely  taken  off  with  a  skimming 
dish,  without  lifting  or  stirring  the 
milk.  The  cream  is  then  deposited 
in  a  separate  vessel,  till  a  proper 
quantity  is  collected  for  churning. 
In  hot  weather,  the  milk  should  stand 
only  twenty-four  hours,  and  be  skim- 
med early  in  the  morning  before  the 
dairy  becomes  warm,  or  in  the  even- 
ing after  sun-set.  In  winter  the 
milk  may  remain  unskimmed  for  six 
and  thirty  or  even  eight  and  forty 
hours.  The  cream  should  be  pre- 
served in  a  deep  pan  during  the  sum- 
mer, and  placed  in  the  coolest  part 
of  the  dairy,  or  in  a  cellar  where 
free  air  is  admitted.  The  cream 
which  rises  first  to  the  surface  is 
richer  in  quality,  and  larger  in  quan- 
tity, than  what  rises  afterwards. 
Thick  milk  produces  a  smaller  pro- 
portion of  cream  than  that  u  hich  is 
BO 


thinner,  though  the  former  is  of  a 
richer  quality  :  if  therefore  the  thick 
milk  be  diluted  with  water,  it  will 
afford  more  cream,  but  its  quality 
will  be  inferior.  Milk  carried  about 
in  pails,  and  partly  cooled  before  it 
be  strained  and  poured  into  the 
trays,  never  throws  up  such  good 
and  plentiful  cream,  as  if  it  had  been 
put  into  proper  vessels  immediately 
after  it  came  from  the  cow.  Those 
who  have  not  an  opportunity  of 
churning  every  other  day,  should 
shift  the  cream  daily  into  clean  pans, 
in  order  to  keep  it  cool ;  but  the 
churning  should  take  place  regular- 
ly twice  a  week  in  hot  weather,  and 
in  the  morning  before  sun-rise,  tak- 
ing care  to  iix  the  churn  in  a  free 
circulation  of  air.  In  the  winter 
time,  the  churn  must  not  be  set  so 
near  the  fire  as  to  heat  the  wood, 
as  by  this  means  the  butter  will  ac- 
quire a  strong  rancid  flavour.  Clean- 
liness being  of  the  utmost  import- 
ance, the  common  plunge-churn  is 
preferable  to  any  other  ;  but  if  a 
barrel-churn  be  requisite  in  a  large 
dairy,  it  must  be  kept  thoroughly 
clean  with  salt  and  water.  If  a 
plunge-churn  be  used,  it  may  be  set 
in  a  tub  of  cold  water  during  the 
time  of  churning,  which  will  harden 
the  butter  in  a  considerable  degree. 
The  motion  of  the  churn  should  be 
regular,  and  performed  by  one  per- 
son, or  the  butter  will  in  winter  go 
back  ;  and  if  the  agitation  be  violent 
and  irregular,  the  butter  will  ferment 
in  summer,  and  acquire  a  disagree- 
able flaveur.  The  operation  of 
churning  may  be  much  facilitated  by 
adding  a  table-spoonful  or  two  of 
distilled  vinegar  to  a  gallon  of  cream, 
but  not  till  after  the  latter  has  un- 
dergone considerable  agitation.  In 
many  parts  of  England,  butter  is  ar- 
tificially coloured  in  winter,  though 
it  adds  nothing  to  its  goodness.  The 
juice  of  carrots  is  expressed  through 
a  sieve,  and  mixed  with  the  cream 
when  it  enters  the  churn,  to  give  it 
the  appearance  of  May  butter.   Very 


CIN 


CLA 


little  salt  is  used  in  the  best  Eppiiig 
butter  ;  but  a  certain  proportion  of 
acid,  either  natural  or  artificial, 
must  be  used  in  the  cream,  in  order 
to  secure  a  successful  churning. 
Some  keep  a  small  quantity  of  the 
old  cream  for  that  purpose  ;  some 
use  a  little  rennet,  and  others  a  few 
tea-spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice.  It  has 
been  ascertained  however,  by  a  va- 
riety of  experiments,  that  it  is  more 
profitable  to  churn  the  cream,  than 
to  churn  the  whole  milk,  as  is  prac- 
tised in  some  parts  of  the  country. 
Cream  butter  is  also  the  richest  of 
the  two,  though  it  will  not  keep 
sweet  so  long. 

CIDER.  Particular  caution  is  re- 
quisite in  bottling  this  useful  bever- 
age, in  order  to  its  being  well  pre- 
served. To  secure  the  bottles  from 
bursting,  the  liquor  must  be  tho- 
roughly fine  before  it  be  racked  off. 
If  one  bottle  break,  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  open  the  remainder,  and  cork 
them  up  again.  Weak  cider  is  more 
apt  to  burst  the  bottles,  than  that  of 
a  better  quality.  Good  corks,  soak- 
ed in  hot  water,  will  be  more  safe  and 
pliant ;  and  by  laying  the  bottles  so 
that  the  liquor  may  always  keep  the 
corks  wet  and  swelled,  will  tend 
much  to  its  preservation.  For  this 
purpose  the  ground  is  preferable  to 
a  frame,  and  a  layer  of  sawdust  bet- 
ter than  the  bare  floor  ;  but  the  most 
proper  situation  would  be  a  stream 
of  running  water.  In  order  to  ripen 
bottled  liquors,  they  are  sometimes 
exposed  to  moderate  warmth,  or  the 
rays  of  the  sun,  which  in  ^  few  days 
will  bring  them  to  maturity. 

CIDER  CUP.  To  make  a  cooling 
drink,  mix  together  a  quart  of  cider, 
a  glass  of  white  wine,  one  of  brandy, 
one  of  capillaire,  the  juice  of  a  le- 
mon, a  bit  of  the  peel  pared  thin,  a 
sprig  of  borage  or  bifeim,  a  piece  of 
toasted  bread,  and  nutmeg  grated 
on  the  top. 

CINNAMON  CAKES.  Whisk 
together  in  a  pan  six  eggs,  and  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  rose  water.     Add 


a  pound  of  fine  sugar  sifted,  a  de- 
sert-spoonful of  pounded  cinnamon, 
and  flour  sufficient  to  make  it  into 
a  paste.  Roll  it  out,  cut  it  into 
cakes,  and  bake  them  on  writing 
paper. 

CITRON  PUDDING.  Boil  some 
Windsor  beans  quite  soft,  take  off 
the  skins,  and  beat  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  them  into  a  paste.  Then 
add  as  much  butter,  four  eggs  well 
beaten,  with  some  sugar  and  brandy. 
Put  a  puff-paste  in  the  dish,  lay  somp 
slices  of  citron  on  it,  pour  in  the 
pudding,  garnish  with  bits  of  citron 
round  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  bake 
it  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CLARIFIED  BROTH.  Put  broth 
or  gravy  into  a  clean  stewpan,  break 
the  white  and  shell  of  an  egg,  beat 
them  together  and  add  them  to 
the  broth.  Stir  it  with  a  whisk  ;  and 
when  it  has  boiled  a  {ew  minutes, 
strain  it  through  a  tammis  or  a  nap- 
kin. 

CLARIFIED  BUTTER.  To  make 
clarified  butter  for  potted  things, 
put  some  butter  into  a  sauceboat, 
and  set  it  over  the  fire  in  a  stewpan 
that  has  a  little  water  in  it.  When 
the  butter  is  dissolved,  the  milky 
parts  will  sink  to  the  bottom,  and 
care  must  be  taken  not  to  pour  them 
over  things  to  be  potted. 

CLARIFIED  DRIPPING.  Mut- 
ton fat  taken  from  the  meat  before 
it  is  roasted,  or  any  kind  of  dripping, 
may  be  sliced  and  boiled  a  few  mi- 
nutes ;  and  when  it  is  cold,  it  will 
come  off  in  a  cake.  This  will  make 
good  crust  for  any  sort  of  meat  pie, 
and  may  be  made  finer  by  boiling  it 
three  or  four  times. 

CLARIFED  SUGAR.  Break  in 
large  lumps  as  much  loaf  sugar  as 
is  required,  and  dissolve  it  in  a  bowl, 
allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  to  half  a 
pint  of  water.  Set  it  over  the  fire, 
and  add  the  white  of  an  egg  well 
whipt.  Let  it  boil  up  ;  and  when 
ready  to  run  over,  pour  in  a  little 
cold  water  to  give  it  a  check.  But 
when  it  rises  the  second  time,  take 

M  81 


CLE 


CLE 


it  off  the  fire,  and  set  it  by  in  a  pan 
a  quarter  of  an  hour.  The  fouhiess 
will  sink  to  the  bottom,  and  leave  a 
black  scum  on  the  top,  which  must 
be  taken  off  gently  with  a  skimmer. 
Then  pour  the  syrup  very  quickly 
tVqm  the  sediment,  and  set  it  by  for 
sweetmeats. 

CLARIFIED  SYRUP.  Break  two 
pounds  of  double-refined  sugar,  and 
put  it  into  a  stewpan  that  is  well 
tinned,  with  a  pint  of  cold  spring 
water.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
set  it  over  a  moderate  fire.  Beat  up 
half  the  white  of  an  egg,  put  it  to 
the  sugar  before  it  gets  warm,  and 
stir  it  well  together.  As  soon  as  it 
boils  take  off  the  scum,  and  keep  it 
boiling  till  it  is  perfectly  clear.  Run 
it  through  a  clean  napkin,  put  it 
into  a  close  stopped  bottle,  and  it 
will  keep  for  months,  as  an  elegant 
article  en  the  sideboard  for  sweet- 
ening. 

CLARY  WINE.  Boil  fifteen  gal- 
lons of  water,  with  forty-five  pounds 
of  sugar,  and  skim  it  clean.  When 
cool  put  a  little  to  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  yeast,  and  so  by  degrees  add 
a  little  more.  In  the  course  of  an 
hour  put  the  smaller  to  the  larger 
quantity,  pour  the  liquor  on  clary 
flowers,  picked  in  the  dry  :  the  quan- 
tity for  the  above  is  twelve  quarts. 
If  there  be  not  a  sufficient  quantity 
ready  to  put  in  at  once,  more  may 
be  added  by  degress,  keeping  an 
account  of  each  quart.  When  the 
liquor  ceases  to  hiss,  and  the  flowers 
are  all  in,  stop  it  up  for  four  months. 
Rack  it  off',  empty  the  barrel  of  the 
dregs,  and  add  a  gallon  of  the  best 
brandy.  Return  the  liquor  to  the 
cask,  close  it  up  for  six  or  eight 
weeks,  and  then  bottle  it  off. 

CLEANLINESS.  Nothing  is  more 
conducive  to  health  than  cleanliness, 
and  the  want  of  it  is  a  fault  which 
admits  of  no  excuse.  It  is  so  agree- 
able to  our  nature,  that  we  cannot 
help  approving  it  in  others,  even  if 
we  do  not  practise  it  ourselves.  It 
is  an  ornament   to  the  highest   as 

m 


Avell  as  to  the  lowest  station,  and 
cannot  be  dispensed  with  in  either  : 
it  ought  to  be  cultivated  everywhere, 
especially  in  populous   towns    and 
cities.     Frequent  washing,  not  only 
improves  the  appearance,  but  pro- 
motes   perspiration,    by    removing 
every  impediment  on  the  skin,  while 
at  the  same  time  it  braces  the  body, 
and  enlivens  the  spirits.     Washing 
the  feet  and  legs  in  lukewarm  water, 
after  being  exposed  to  cold  and  wet, 
would  prevent  the  ill  effects  which 
proceed    from    these    causes,    and 
greatly  contribute  to  health.     Dis- 
eases of  the  skin,  a  very  numerous 
class,  are  chiefly  owing  to  the  want 
of  cleanliness,  as  well  as  the  various 
kinds  of  vermin  which  infest  the  hu- 
man body  ;  and  all  these  might  be 
prevented  by  a  due  regard  to  our 
own  persons.     One  common  cause 
of  putrid  and  malignant   fevers  is 
the  want  of  cleanliness.     They  usu- 
ally begin  among  the  inhabitants  of 
close  and  dirty  houses,  who  breathe 
unwholesome  air,  take  little  exer- 
cise, and  wear  dirty  clothes.    There 
the  infection  is  generally  hatched, 
and  spreads  its  desolation  far  and 
wide.     If  dirty  people  cannot  be  re- 
moved as  a  common  nuisance,  they 
ought  at  least  to  be  avoided  as  in- 
fectious, and   all  who  regard   their 
own  health  should  keep  at  a  distance 
from  their  habitations.     Infectious 
diseases  are  often  communicated  by 
tainted  air :    every  thing  therefore 
which  gives  a  noxious  exhalation,  or 
tends  to  spread  infection,  should  be 
carefully  ^voided.     In  great  towns 
no  filth  of  any  kind  should  be  suffer- 
ed to  remain  in  the  streets,  and  great 
pains  should  be  taken  to  keep  every 
dwelling  clean  both  within  and  with- 
out.    No  dunghills  or  filth  of  any 
kind  should  be  allowed  to  remain 
near  them.  When  an  infection  breaks 
out,   cleanliness  is  the  most  likely 
means  to  prevent  its  spreading  to 
other  places,  or  its  returning  again 
afterwards.  It  will  lodge  a  long  time 
in  dirty  clothes,  and  be  liable   to 


CLE 


CLO 


break  out  again  ;  and  therefore  the 
bedding  and  clothing  of  the  sick 
ought  to  be  carefully  washed,  and 
fumigated  with  brimstone.  Infec- 
tious diseases  are  not  only  prevented, 
but  even  cured  by  cleanliness ;  while 
the  slightest  disorders,  where  it  is 
neglected,  are  often  changed  into 
the  most  malignant.  Yet  it  has  so 
happened,  that  the  same  mistaken 
care  which  prevents  the  least  admis- 
sion of  fresh  air  to  the  sick,  has  in- 
troduced the  idea  also  of  keeping 
them  dirty  ;  than  which  nothing  can 
be  more  injurious  to  the  afflicted,  or 
more  repugnant  to  common  sense. 
In  a  room  too,  where  cleanliness  is 
neglected,  a  person  in  perfect  health 
has  a  greater  chance  to  become  sick, 
than  a  sick  person  has  to  get  well. 
It  is  also  of  great  consequence,  that 
cleanliness  should  be  strictly  re- 
garded by  those  especially  who  are 
employed  in  preparing  food  ;  such 
as  butchers,  bakers,  brewers,  dairy 
maids,  and  cooks  ;  as  negligence  in 
any  of  these  may  prove  injurious  to 
the  public  health.  Good  house- 
keepers will  keep  a  careful  eye  on 
these  things,  and  every  person  of  re- 
flection will  see  the  necessity  of  cul- 
tivating general  cleanliness  as  of 
great  importance  to  the  wellbeing 
of  society. 

CLEAR  BROTH.  To  make  a 
broth  that  will  keep  long,  put  the 
mouse  round  of  beef  into  a  deep  pan, 
with  a  knuckle  bone  of  veal,  and  a 
few  shanks  of  mutton.  Cover  it  close 
with  a  dish  or  coarse  crust,  and  bake 
with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  it, 
till  the  beef  is  done  enough  for  eat- 
ing. When  cold,  cover  it  close,  and 
keep  it  in  a  cool  place.  When  to 
be  used,  give  it  any  flavour  most 
approved. 

CLEAR  GRAVY.  Slice  some 
beef  thin,  broil  a  part  of  it  over  a 
very  clear  quick  fire,  just  enough  to 
give  a  colour  to  the  gravy,  but  not 
to  dress  it.  Put  that  and  the  raw 
beef  into  a  very  nicely  tinned  stew- 
pan,  with  two  onions,  a  clove  or  two. 


whole  black  pepper,  berries  of  all- 
spice, and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 
Cover  it  with  hot  water,  give  it  one 
boil,  and  skim  it  well  two  or  three 
times.  Then  cover  it,  and  simmer 
till  it  be  quite  strong. 

CLOTHING.    Those  who  regard 
their  health   should   be  careful    to 
adapt  their  clothing  to  the  state  of 
the  climate,  and  the  season  of  the 
year.     Whatever  be  the  influence  of 
custom,  there  is  no  reason  why  our 
clothing  should  be  such  as  would 
suit  an   inhabitant  of  the   torrid  or 
the  frigid  zones,  but  of  the  state  of 
the  air  around  us,  and  of  the  coun- 
try in  which  we  live.     Apparel  may 
be  warm  enough  for  one  season  of 
the  year,  which  is  by  no  means  suf- 
ficient for  another  ;  we  ought  there- 
fore neither  to  put  oft'  our  winter 
garments   too  soon,   nor  wear   our 
summer  ones  too  long.  Every  change 
of  this  sort  requires  to  be  made  cau- 
tiously, and  by  degrees.    In  general, 
all  clothes  should  be  light  and  easy, 
and  in  no  instance  ought  health  and 
comfort  to  be   sacrificed   to  pride 
and  vanity.     In  the  early  part  of  life 
it  is  not  necessary  to  wear  many 
clothes :  but  in  the  decline  of  life, 
when  many  diseases  proceed  from  a 
defect   of   perspiration,    plenty   of 
warm  clothing  is  required.     Atten- 
tion should  also  be  paid  to  the  con- 
stitution, in  this  as  well  as  in  other 
cases.      Some  persons  can  endure 
either  cold  or  heat  better  than  others, 
and  may  therefore  be  less  mindful  of 
their  clothing  :  the  great  object  is 
to  wear  just  so  many  garments  as  is 
suflicient  to  keep  the  body  warm, 
ai^jd   no  more.     Shoes  in  particular 
should  be  easy  to  the  foot,  and  all 
tight  bandages  on  every  part  of  the 
body  carefully  avoided. 

CLOUTED  CREAM.  String  four 
blades  of  mace  on  a  thread,  put 
them  to  a  gill  of  new  milk,  and  six 
spoonfuls  of  rose  water.  Simmer  a 
few  minutes,  then  by  degrees  strain 
the  liquor  to  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
Avell  beaten.  Sti?  the  whole  into  a 
C3 


CO  c 


COD 


quart  of  rich  cream,  and  set  it  over 
the  fire ;  keep  it  stirring  till  hot,  but 
not  boiling  ;  pour  it  into  a  deep  dish, 
and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours. 
Serve  it  in  a  cream  dish,  to  eat  with 
fruits.  Some  prefer  it  without  any 
flavour  but  that  of  cream  ;  in  which 
case  use  a  quart  of  new  milk  and 
the  cream,  or  do  it  as  the  Devon- 
shire scalded  cream.  When  done 
enough,  a  round  mark  will  appear 
on  the  surface  of  the  cream,  the  size 
of  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  which  is 
called  the  ring  ;  and  wften  that  is 
seen,  remove  the  pan  from  the  fire. 

CLYSTER.  A  common  clyster  is 
made  of  plain  gruel  strained,  and  a 
table-spoonful  of  oil  or  salt.  A  pint 
is  sufficient  for  a  grown  person. 

COCK  CHAFFERS.  This  species 
of  the  beetle,  sometimes  called  the 
May  bug,  is  a  formidable  enemy  to 
the  husbandman,  and  has  been  found 
to  swarm  in  such  numbers,  as  to 
devour  every  kind  of  vegetable  pro- 
duction. The  insect  is  first  gene- 
rated in  the  earth,  from  the  eggs 
deposited  by  the  fly  in  its  perfect 
state.  In  about  three  months,  the 
insects  contained  in  these  eggs  break 
the  shell,  and  crawl  forth  in  the 
shape  of  a  grub  or  maggot,  which 
feeds  upon  the  roots  of  vegetables, 
and  continues  in  this  state  of  secret 
annoyance  for  more  than  three  years, 
gradually  growing  to  the  siiie  of  an 
acorn.  It  is  the  thick  white  maggot 
with  a  red  head,  so  frequently  found 
in  turning  up  the  soil.  At  the  end 
of  the  fourth  year,  they  emerge  from 
the  earth,  and  may  be  seen  in  great 
numbers  in  the  mild  evenings  of 
May.  The  willow  seems  to  be  their 
favourite  food  ;  on  this  they  hang  in 
clusters,  and  seldom  quit  it  till  they 
have  completely  devoured  its  foli- 
age. The  most  effectual  way  to  de- 
stroy them,  is  to  beat  them  off  with 
poles,  and  then  to  collect  and  burn 
them.  The  smoke  of  burning  heath, 
fern,  or  other  weeds,  will  prevent 
their  incursions  in  gardens,  or  expel 
them  if  they  have  entered. 
'  84 


COCK  ROACHES.  These  in- 
sects, consisting  of  various  species, 
penetrate  into  chests  and  drawers, 
and  do  considerable  injury  to  linen, 
books,  and  other  articles.  They  sel- 
dom appear  till  night,  when  they  in- 
fest beds,  and  bite  very  severely, 
leaving  an  unpleasant  smell.  The 
best  remedy  is  to  fill  an  earthen  dish 
with  small  beer,  sweetened  with 
coarse  sugar,  and  set  in  the  place 
infested.  Lay  a  board  against  the 
pan,  to  form  a  kind  of  ladder,  and 
the  insects  will  ascend  and  fall  into 
the  liquor. 

COCKLE  KETCHUP.  Open  the 
cockles,  scald  them  in  their  own 
liquor,  and  add  a  little  water,  if 
there  be  not  enough ;  but  it  is  better 
to  have  a  sufficient  quantity  of  coc-/ 
kles,  than  to  dilute  it  with  water. 
Strain  the  liquor  through  a  cloth, 
and  season  it  with  savoury  spices. 
If  for  brown  sauce,  add  port,  ancho- 
vies, and  garlic  :  a  bit  of  burnt  su- 
gar will  heighten  the  colouring.  If 
for  white  sauce,  omit  these,  and  put 
in  a  glass  of  sherry,  some  lemon 
juice  and  peel,  mace,  nutmeg,  and 
white  pepper. 

COD  FISH.  In  season  from  the 
beginning  of  December  till  the  end 
of  April.  To  be  quite  good,  the 
fish  should  be  thick  at  the  neck,  the 
flesh  white  and  firm,  the  gills  very 
red,  and  the  eyes  bright  and  fresh. 
When  flabby,  they  are  not  good. 
The  cod  is  generally  boiled  whole  ; 
but  a  large  head  and  shoulders  con- 
tain all  that  is  relishing,  the  thinner 
parts  being  overdone  and  tasteless 
before  the  thick  are  ready.  But  the 
whole  fish  may  often  be  purchased 
more  reasonably  ;  and  the  lower 
half,  if  sprinkled  and  hung  up,  will 
be  in  high  perfection  one  or  two 
days.  Or  it  may  be  made  salter, 
and  served  with  egg  sauce,  potatoes, 
and  parsnips.  Small  cod  is  usually 
very  cheap.  If  boiled  fresh,  it  is 
watery  ;  but  eats  well  if  salted  and 
hung  up  for  a  day,  to  give  it  firm- 
ness.     Then   it  should   be  stuficd 


COD 


COD 


and  boiledy  or  it  is  equally  good 
broiled. 

COD'S  HEAD.  The  head  and 
shoulders  of  the  cod  will  eat  much 
finer  by  having  a  little  salt  rubbed 
down  the  bone,  and  along-  the  thick 
part,  even  if  eaten  the  same  day. 
Tie  it  up,  put  it  on  the  fire  in  cold 
water  sufficient  to  cover  it,  and  throw 
a  handful  of  salt  into  it.  Great  care 
must  be  taken  to  serve  it  up  without 
the  smallest  speck  of  black,  or  scum. 
Garnish  with  plenty  of  double  pars- 
ley, lemon,  horse  radish,  and  the 
milt,  roe  and  liver,  and  fried  smelts, 
if  approved.  If  with  smelts,  no  wa- 
ter must  be  suffered  to  hang  about 
the  fish,  or  the  beauty  and  flavour 
of  the  smelts  will  be  lost.  Serve 
with  plenty  of  oyster  or  shrimp 
sauce,  anchovy  and  butter. 

COD  PIE.  Take  a  piece  of  the 
middle  of  a  small  cod,  and  salt  it 
well  one  night.  Wasjb  it  the  next 
day,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
mixed  with  a  very  little  nutmeg.  Lay 
the  meat  in  a  dish,  with  the  addition 
of  a  little  good  broth  of  any  kind, 
and  some  bits  of  butter  on  it.  Cover 
the  dish  with  a  crust,  and  bake  it. 
When  done,  make  a  sauce  of  a  spoon- 
ful of  broth,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
cream,  a  little  flour  and  butter,  and 
a  dust  of  grated  lemon  and  nutmeg. 
Give  it  one  boil,  and  pour  it  into 
the  pie.  Oysters  may  be  added, 
but  parsley  will  do  instead.  Mac- 
karel  may  be  done  in  the  same  way, 
but  must  not  be  salted  till  they  are 
used. 

cop  SOUNDS  BOILED.  Soak 
them  in  warm  water  half  an  hour, 
then  scrape  and  clean  them.  If  to 
be  dressed  white,  boil  them  in  milk 
and  water.  When  tender,  serve  them 
up  in  a  napkin,  with  egg  sauce.  The 
salt  must  not  be  much  soaked  out, 
unless  for  fricassee. 

COD  SOUNDS  BROILED.  Scald 
them  in  hot  water,  rub  well  with  salt, 
pull  off  the  dirty  skin,  and  simmer 
them  till  tender.     Then  take  them 


out,  flour,  and  broil  them.  While 
this  is  doing,  season  a  little  brown 
gravy  with  pepper,  salt,  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  soy,  and  a  little  mustard. 
Give  it  a  boil  with  a  little  flour  and 
butter,  and  pour  it  over  th«  sounds. 

COD  SOUNDS  RAGOUT.  Hav- 
ing scalded,  cleaned,  and  rubbed 
them  well  with  salt,  stew  them  in 
white  gravy  seasoned.  Before  they  . 
are  served,  add  a  little  cream,  but- 
ter and  flour,  gently  boiling  up.  A 
bit  of  lemon  peel,  nutmeg,  and  the 
least  pounded  mace,  will  give  it  a 
good  flavour. 

COD  SOUNDS  LIKE  CHICK- 
ENS. Carefully  wash  three  large 
sounds,  boil  them  in  milk  and  water, 
but  not  too  tender.  When  cold,  put 
a  forcemeat  of  chopped  oysters, 
crumbs  of  bread,  a  bit  of  butter, 
nutmeg,  pepper,  salt,  and  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs.  Spread  it  thin  over 
the  sounds,  roll  up  each  in  the  form 
of  a  chicken,  and  skewer  it.  Then 
lard  them  as  chickens,  dust  a  little 
flour  over,  and  roast  them  slowly  in 
a  tin  oven.  When  done  enough,  pour 
over  them  a  fine  oyster  sauce,  and  *.. 
place  them  on  the  table  as  a  side  or 
corner  dish. 

CODLINS.  This  fruit  may  be 
kept  for  several  months,  if  gathered 
of  a  middling  size  at  midsummer, 
and  treated  in  the  following  manner. 
Put  them  into  an  earthen  pan,  pour 
boiling  water  over  them,  and  cover 
the  pan  with  cabbage  leaves.  Keep 
them  by  the  fire  till  ready  ro  peel, 
but  do  not  peel  them ;  then  pour  off 
the  water,  and  leave  them  cold. 
Place  the  codlins  in  a  stone  jar  with 
a  smallish  mouth,  and  pour  on  the 
water  that  scalded  them.  Cover 
the  pot  with  bladder  wetted  and  tied  ^< 
very  close,  and  then  over  it  coarse 
paper  tie^  again.  The  fruit  is  besfe 
kept  in  small  jars,  such  as  will  be 
used  at  once  when  opened. 

CODLIN  CREAM.  Pare  and  core 
twenty  good  codlins ;  beat  them  in 
a  mortar  with  a  pint  of  cream,  and 
85 


COF 


COF 


strain  it  into  a  dish.  Put  to  it  sugar, 
bread  crumbs,  and  a  glass  of  wine  ; 
and  stir  it  well. 

CODLIN  TART.  Scald  the  fruit, 
and  take  off  the  skin.  Put  a  little 
of  the  liquor  on  the  bottom  of  a  dish, 
lay  in  the  apples  whole,  and  strew 
them  over  with  Lisbon  or  fine  sugar. 
When  cold,  put  a  paste  round  the 
edges,  and  over  the  fruit.  Moisten 
the  crust  with  the  white  of  an  egg, 
and  strew  some  fine  sugar  over  it ; 
or  cut  the  lid  in  quarters,  without 
touching  the  paste  on  the  edge  of 
the  dish.  Remove  the  lid  when  cold, 
pour  in  a  good  custard,  and  sift  it 
over  with  sugar.  Another  way  is  to 
line  the  bottom  of  a  shallow  dish 
with  paste,  lay  in  the  scalded  fruit, 
sweeten  it,  and  lay  little  twists  of 
paste  over  in  bars. 

COFFEE.  Put  two  ounces  of 
fresh-ground  coffee,  of  the  best 
quality,  into  a  coffee  pot,  and  pour 
eight  coffee  cups  of  boiling  water 
on  it.  Let  it  boil  six  minutes,  and 
return  it ;  then  put  in  two  or  three 
chips  of  isinglass,  and  pour  on  it 
one  large  spoonful  of  boiling  water. 
Boil  it  five  minutes  more,  and  set 
the  pot  by  the  fire  for  ten  minutes 
to  keep  it  hot :  the  coffee  will  then 
be  of  a  beautiful  clearness.  Fine 
cream  should  always  be  served  with 
coffee,  and  either  pounded  sugar- 
candy,  or  fine  Lisbon  sugar.  If  for 
foreigners,  or  those  who  like  it  very 
strong,  make  only  eight  dishes  from 
three  ounces.  If  not  fresh  roasted, 
lay  it  before  the  fire  until  perfectly 
hot  and  dry  ;  or  put  the  smallest  bit 
of  fresh  butter  into  a  preserving  pan, 
and  when  hot,  throw  the  coffee  into 
it,  and  toss  it  about  until  it  be  fresh- 
ened, but  let  it  be  quite  cold  before 
it  is  ground. — But  as  coffee  pos- 
sesses a  raw  and  astringent  quality, 
which  often  disagrees  with  weak 
stomachs,  and  by  being  drank  too 
warm  is  as  frequently  rendered  un- 
wholesome, the  following  is  recom- 
mended as  an  improved  method  of 
86 


preparing  it.  To  an  ounce  of  coffee, 
add  a  tea-spoonful  of  the  best  flour 
of  mustard,  to  correct  its  acidity, 
and  improve  its  fragrance ;  and  in 
order  to  render  it  truly  fine  and 
wholesome,  it  should  be  made  the 
evening  before  it  is  wanted.  Let 
an  ounce  of  fresh-ground  coffee  be 
put  into  a  clean  coftee  pot  well  tin- 
ned, pour  upon  it  a  full  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  af- 
ter it  has  well  boiled,  let  it  stand  by 
to  settle.  Next  morning  pour  off 
the  clear  liquor,  add  to  it  a  pint  of 
new  milk,  warm  it  over  the  fire,  and 
sweeten  it  to  taste.  Coffee  made  in 
this  way,  will  be  found  particularly 
suitable  to  persons  of  a  weak  and 
delicate  habit. — A  substitute  for  fo- 
reign coffee  may  be  prepared  from 
the  acorns  of  the  oak.  by  shelling 
and  dividing  the  kernels,  drying  and 
roasting  them  gradually  in  a  close 
vessel,  and  keeping  them  constantly 
stirring.  Grind  it  like  other  coffee, 
and  either  use  it  alone,  or  mix  with 
it  a  small  quantity  of  foreign  coffee. 
The  seeds  of  the  flower  de  luce,  or 
common  waterflag,  being  roasted  in 
the^same  manner  as  coffee,  very 
much  resembles  it  in  colour  and  fla- 
vour. Coffee  made  of  these  seeds 
is  extremely  wholesome,  in  the  pro- 
portion of  an  ounce  to  a  pint  of 
boiling  water. 

COFFEE  CAKES.  Melt  some 
fresh  butter  in  a  pint  of  thin  cream, 
and  work  up  with  it  four  pounds  of 
dried  flour.  Add  a  pound  of  sugar, 
a  pint  of  yeast,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  carraways.  Stir  them  all  toge- 
ther, set  it  before  the  fire  to  rise, 
roll  the  paste  out  thin,  cut  it  into 
small  cakes,  and  bake  them  on  but- 
tered paper. 

COFFEE  CREAM.  Boil  a  calf's 
foot  in  water  till  reduced  to  a  pint 
of  jelly,  clear  of  sediment  and  fat. 
Make  a  tea-cupful  of  strong  fresh 
coffee,  clear  it  perfectly  bright  with 
isinglass,  and  pour  it  to  the  jel- 
ly. Add  a  pint  of  very  good  cream. 


COL 


COL 


sweeten  it  with  fine  Lisbon  sugar, 
boil  it  up  once,  and  pour  it  into  the 
dish.  This  article  is  much  admired, 
but  the  jelly  must  not  be  stiff,  and 
the  coffee  must  be  fresh. 

COFFEE  MILK.  Boil  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  ground  coffee,  in  nearly 
a  pint  of  milk,  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Then  put  in  a  shaving  or  two  of  isin- 
glass to  clear  it ;  let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes,  and  set  it  on  the  side  of 
the  fire  to  grow  fine.  This  makes  a 
very  fine  breakfast ;  it  should  be 
sweetened  with  real  Lisbon  sugar  of 
a  good  quality. 

COLD  CAUDLE.  Boil  a  quart 
of  spring  water ;  when  cold,  add  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  the  juice  of  a  small 
lemon,  six  spoonfuls  of  sweet  wine, 
sugar  to  taste,  and  syrup  of  lemons 
one  ounce. 

COLD  FISH.  Soles,  cod,  whit- 
ings, or  smelts  may  be  cut  into  bits, 
and  put  into  scallop  shells,  with  cold 
oyster,  lobster,  or  shrimp  sauce. 
Having  added  some  bread  crumbs, 
they  may  be  put  into  a  Dutch  oven, 
and  browned  like  scalloped  oysters. 

COLD  MEAT.  If  it  be  a  little 
underdone,  the  best  way  to  waripri  it 
up  is  to  sprinkle  over  a  little  salt, 
and  put  it  into  a  Dutch  oven  at  some 
distance  before  a  gentle  fire,  that  it 
may  warm  gradually.  Watch  it  care- 
fully, and  keep  turning  it  till  it  is 
quite  hot  and  brown,  and  serve  it  up 
with  gravy.  This  is  preferable  to 
hashing,  as  it  will  retain  more  of  its 
original  flavour.  Roast  beef  or  mut- 
ton, of  course,  are  best  for  this  pur- 
pose. 

COLD  SALLAD.  Boil  an  egg 
quite  hard,  put  the  yolk  into  a  sallad 
dish,  mash  it  with  a  spoonful  of  wa- 
ter, then  add  a  little  of  the  best  sal- 
lad  oil  or  melted  butter,  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  ready-made  mustard,  and  some 
vinegar.  Cut  the  sallad  small  and 
mix  it  together,  adding  celery,  ra- 
dishes, or  other  sallad  herbs  with  it. 
Onions  may  be  served  in  a  saucer, 
rather  than  mixed  in  the  bowl.  An 
anchovy  may  be  washed,  cut  small, 


and  mixed  with  it ;  also  a  bit  of  beet 
root,  and  the  white  of  an  egg.  Celery 
may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

COLDS.  For  a  bad  cold  take  a 
large  tea-cupful  of  linseed,  two  pen- 
nyworth of  stick  liquorice,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sun  raisins. 
Put  them  into  two  quarts  of  water, 
and  let  it  simmer  over  a  slow  fire 
till  reduced  one  half.  Then  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar-candy 
pounded,  a  table- spoonful  of  rum, 
and  the  same  of  lemon  juice  or  vi- 
negar. The  rum  and  lemon  juice 
are  better  added  when  the  mixture 
is  taken,  or  they  are  apt  to  grow 
flat.  Take  half  a  pint  just  warm  at 
bed  time. 

COLLARED  BEEF.  Choose  the 
thin  end  of  the  flank  of  fine  mellow 
beef,  but  not  too  fat :  lay  it  into  a 
dish  with  salt  and  saltpetre,  turn 
and  rub  it  every  day  for  a  week, 
and  keep  it  cool.  Then  take  out 
every  bone  and  gristle,  remove  the 
skin  of  the  inside  part,  and  cover  it 
thick  with  the  following  seasoning 
cut  small ;  a  large  handful  of  pars- 
ley, the  same  of  sage,  some  thyme, 
marjoram  and  pennyroyal,  pepper, 
salt,  and  allspice.  Roll  the  meat  up 
as  tight  as  possible,  and  bind  it 
rcund  with  a  cloth  and  tape  ;  then 
boil  it  gently  for  seven  or  eight  hours. 
Put  the  beef  under  a  good  weight 
while  hot,  without  undoing  it :  the 
shape  will  them  be  oval.  Part  of 
a  breast  of  veal  rolled  in  with  the 
beef,  looks  and  eats  very  well. 

COLLARED  EEL.  Bone  a  large 
eel,  but  do  not  skin  it.  Mix  up  pep- 
per, salt,  mace,  allspice,  and  a  clove 
or  two,  in  the  finest  powder,  and  rub 
over  the  whole  inside :  roll  it  tight, 
and  bind  it  with  a  coarse  tape.  Boil 
it  in  salt  and  water  till  done  enough, 
then  add  vinegar,  and  when  cold 
keep  the  collar  in  pickle.  Serve  it 
either  whole  or  in  slices.  Chopped 
parsley,  sage,  a  little  thyme,  knot- 
ted marjoram,  and  savoury,  mixed 
with  the  spices,  greatly  improve  the 
taste. 

87 


CO  L 


COL 


COLLARED  MACKAREL.  Do 
them  the  same  as  eels,  omitting  the 
herbs. 

COLLARED  MUTTON.  Take 
out  the  bones  and  gristle  of  a  breast 
of  mutton,  lay  the  meat  flat,  and  rub 
it  over  with  egg.  Mix  some  grated 
bread,  pounded  cloves  and  mace, 
pepper,  salt,  and  lemon  peel,  and 
strew  over  it.  Two  or  three  ancho- 
vies, washed  and  boned,  may  be 
added.  Roll  the  meat  up  hard,  bind 
it  with  tape  and  boil  it ;  or  if  skew- 
ered, it  may  either  be  roasted  or 
baked 

COLI^ARED  PORK.  Bone  a 
breast  of  pork,  and  season  it  with 
thyme,  parsley  and  sage.  Roll  it 
hard,  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  it. 
Press  it  well,  take  it  out  of  the  cloth 
when  cold,  and  keep  it  in  the  liquor 
it  was  boiled  in. 

COLLARED  PORK'S  HEAD. 
Clean  it  well,  take  out  the  brains, 
rub  it  with  a  handful  of  salt,  and 
two  ounces  of  saltpetre.  Let  it  lie 
a  fortnight  in  brine,  then  wash  it, 
and  boil  it  till  the  bones  will  easily 
come  out.  Lay  it  in  a  dish,  take  off 
the  skin  carefully,  take  out  the  bones, 
and  peel  the  tongue.  Mix  a  handful 
of  sage,  a  little  thyme,  and  four  sha- 
lots  chopped  fine.  Put  the  meat  to 
it,  and  chop  it  into  pieces  about  an 
inch  square.  Put  a  thin  cloth  tnto 
an  earthen  pot,  lay  in  the  meat,  co- 
ver the  cloth  over,  and  press  it  down. 
Set  the  pot  in  the  liquor  again,  boil 
it  nearly  an  hour  longer,  then  take 
it  out,  place  a  weight  on  the  cover 
within  side,  and  let  it  remain  all 
night.  Take  it  out,  strip  off  the 
cloth,  and  eat  the  collar  with  mus- 
tard and  vinegar. 

COLLARED  SALMON.  Split 
such  part  of  the  fish  as  may  be  suf- 
ficient to  make  a  handsome  roll, 
wash  and  wipe  it ;  and  having  mix- 
ed salt,  white  pepper,  pounded 
mace,  and  Jamaica  pepper,  in  quan- 
tity to  season  it  very  high,  rub  it  in- 
side and  out  well.  Then  roll  it  tight 
and  bandage  it,  put  as  much  water 
88 


and  one  third  vinegar  as  will  cover 
it,  adding  bay  leaves,  salt,  and  both 
sorts  of  pepper.  Cover  it  close,  and 
simmer  till  it  is  done  enough.  Drain 
and  boil  the  liquor,  put  it  on  when 
cold,  and  serve  with  fennel.  It  is  an 
elegant  dish,  and  extremely  good. 

COLLARED  VEAL.  Bone  the 
breast  and  beat  it,  rub  it  with  egg, 
and  strew  over  it  a  seasoning  of 
pounded  mace,  nutmeg,  pepper  and 
salt,  minced  parsley,  sweet  marjo- 
ram, lemon  peel,  crumbs  of  bread, 
and  an  anchovy.  Roll  it  up  tight  in 
a  cloth,  and  boil  it  two  hours  and  a 
half  in  salt  and  water.  Hang  it  up, 
or  press  it :  make  a  pickle  for  it  of 
the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  and  half 
the  quantity  of  vinegar. 

COLLEGE  PUDDINGS.  Grate 
the  crumb  of  a  two-penny  loaf,  shred 
eight  ounces  of  suet,  and  mix  with 
eight  ounces  of  currants,  one  of  ci- 
tron mixed  fine,  one  of  orange,  a 
handful  of  sugar,  half  a  nutmeg, 
three  eggs  beaten,  yolk  and  white 
separately.  Mix  and  make  into  the 
size  and  shape  of  a  goose-egg.  Put 
half  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  frying- 
pan  ;  and  when  melted  and  quite 
hot,  stew  them  gently  in  it  over  a 
stove ;  turn  them  two  or  three  times, 
till  they  are  of  a  fine  light  brown. 
Mix  a  glass  of  brandy  with  the  bat- 
ter, and  serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

COLOURING  FOR  JELLIES. 
For  a  beautiful  Red,  take  fifteen 
grains  of  cochineal  in  the  finest 
powder,  and  a  dram  and  a  half  of 
cream  of  tartar.  Boil  them  in  half 
a  pint  of  water  very  slowly  for  half 
an  hour,  adding  a  bit  of  alum  the 
size  of  a  pea ;  or  use  beet  root  sliced, 
and  some  liquor  poured  over.  For 
White,  use  cream  ;  or  almonds  fine- 
ly powdered,  with  a  spoonful  of  wa- 
ter. For  Yellow,  yolks  of  eggs,  or 
a  little  saffron  steeped  in  the  liquor 
and  squeezed.  For  Green,  spinach 
or  beet  leaves  bruised  and  pressed, 
and  the  juice  boiled  to  take  off  the 
rawness.  Any  of  these  will  do  to 
stain  jellies,  ices,  or  cakes. 


COM 


COP 


COLOURING  FOR  SOUPS.  Put 

four  ounces  of  lump  sugar,  a  gill  of 
water,  and  half  an  ounce  of  fine  but- 
ter into  a  small  tosser,  and  set  it 
over  a  gentle  fire.  Stir  it  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  till  of  a  light  brown. 
Then  add  half  a  pint  of  water  ;  let 
it  boil  and  skim  it  well.  When  cold, 
bottle  and  cork  it  close.  Add  to 
either  soup  or  gravy  as  much  of  this 
as  will  give  it  a  proper  colour. 

COMMON  CAKE.  Mix  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  with 
half  a  pound  of  butter,  four  ounces 
of  sugar,  four  eggs,  half  an  ounce  of 
carraways,  and  a  glass  of  raisin 
wine.  Beat  it  well,  and  bake  it  in 
a  quick  oven. — A  better  sort  of  com- 
mon cake  may  be  made  of  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  rubbed  into  two 
pounds  of  dried  flour ;  then  add 
three  spoonfuls  of  yeast  that  is  not 
bitter,  and  work  it  to  a  paste.  Let 
it  rise  ^n  hour  and  a  half;  then  mix 
in  the  yolks  and  whites  of  four  eggs 
beaten  separately,  a  pound  of  Lis- 
bon sugar,  about  a  pint  of  milk  to 
make  it  of  a  proper  thickness,  a  glass 
of  sweet  wine,  the  rind  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  gin- 
ger. A  pound  of  currants,  or  some 
carraways  may  be  added,  and  let 
the  whole  be  well  beaten  together. 

COMMON  PLANTS.  The  vir- 
tues of  a  great  number  of  ordinary 
plants  and  weeds  being  but  little 
understood,  they  are  generally  deem- 
ed useless ;  but  they  have  properties 
nevertheless  which  might  be  render- 
ed useful,  if  carefully  and  judicious- 
ly applied.  The  young  shoots  and 
leaves  of  chick-weed,  for  example, 
may  be  boiled  and  eaten  like  spinach, 
are  equally  wholesome,  and  can 
scarcely  be  distinguished  from  it. 
The  juice  expressed  from  the  stem 
and  leaves  of  goose-grass,  taken  to 
the  amount  of  four  ounces,  night 
and  morning  for  several  weeks,  is 
very  efficacious  in  scorbutic  com- 
plaints, and  other  cutaneous  erup- 
tions. The  smell  of  garlic  is  an  in- 
fallible remedy  against  the  vapours. 


faintings,  and  other  hysterwJ  affec- 
tions. The  common  poppy  is  an 
antidote  to  the  stings  of  venomous 
insects,  and  a  remedy  for  inflamma- 
tion of  the  eyes  :  it  also  cures  the 
pleurisy,  and  spitting  of  blood.  Sage 
taken  in  any  form  tends  to  cleanse 
and  enrich  the  blood  :  it  makes  a 
good  cordial,  and  is  highly  useful  in 
cases  of  nervous  debility.  It  is  often 
given  in  fevers  with  a  view  to  pro- 
mote perspiration,  and  with  the  ad- 
dition of  a  little  lemon  juice  it  makes 
a  grateful  and  cooling  beverage. 

COOL  TANKARD.  Put  into  a 
quart  of  mild  ale  a  glass  of  white 
wine,  one  of  brandy,  one  of  capil- 
laire,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a 
little  piece  of  the  rind.  Add  a  sprig 
of  borage  or  balm,  a  bit  of  toasted 
bread,  and  nutmeg  grated  on  the  top. 

COPPER.  Many  serious  acci- 
dents have  been  occasioned  by  the  ^ 
use  of  copper  in  kitchen  requisites. 
The  eating  of  fruit  especially  that 
has  been  prepared  in  a  copper  stew- 
pan,  where  some  of  the  oxide  was 
insensibly  imbibed,  has  been  known, 
to  produce  death ;  or  if  coflfee 
grounds  are  suff'ered  to  remain  long 
in  a  copper  coffee-pot,  and  after- 
wards mixed  with  fresh  coff*ee,  for 
the  sake  of  economy,  the  eff*ects  will 
be  highly  injurious,  if  not  fataL 
The  best  antidote  in  such  cases, 
when  they  unhappily  occur,  is  to 
take  immediately  a  large  spoonful  of 
powdered  charcoal,  mixed  with  ho- 
ney, butter,  or  treacle ;  and  within 
two  hours  afterwards,  an  emetic  or 
a  cathartic  to  expel  the  poison. 

COPPERS.  In  domestic  economy, 
the  necessity  of  keeping  copper  ves- 
sels always  clean,  is  generally  ac- 
knowledged ;  but  it  may  not  perhaps 
be  so  generally  known,  that  fat  and 
oily  substances,  and  vegetable  acids, 
do  not  attack  copper  while  hot ;  and 
therefore,  that  if  no  liquor  were  suf- 
fered to  remain  and  grow  cold  in 
copper  vessels,  they  might  be  used 
for  every  culinary  purpose  with  per- 
fect safety.     The  object  is  to  clean 

N  89 


COR 


COT 


and  dry  the  vessels  wdl  before  they 
turn  cold. 

COPYING  LETTERS.  Dissolve 
a  little  sugar  in  the  ink,  and  write 
with  it  as  usual.  When  a  copy  is 
required,  moisten  a  piece  of  unsized 
paper  lightly  with  a  sponge,  and 
apply  it  to  the  writing ;  then  smooth 
the  wet  paper  over  with  a  warm  iron, 
such  as  is  used  in  a  laundry,  and 
the  copy  is  immediately  produced 
without  the  use  of  a  machine. 

COPYING  PRINTS.  Moisten  a 
piece  of  paper  with  a  solution  of  soap 
and  alum,  lay  it  on  the  print  or  pic- 
ture, and  pass  it  under  a  rolling 
press.  Another  method  is  to  have 
a  small  frame  in  the  form  of  a  basin 
stand,  enclosing  a  square  of  glass  on 
the  pot,  on  which  the  print  is  laid 
with  the  paper  upon  it ;  and  then 
placing  a' candle  under  the  glass, 
the  print  may  be  traced  with  a  pen- 
cil, or  pen  and  ink.  Impressions 
may  also  be  transferred  by  mixing  a 
little  Vermillion  with  linseed  oil  so  as 
to  make  it  fluid  ;  then  with  a  pen 
dipped  in  it,  trace  every  line  of  the 
print  accurately.  Turn  the  print 
with  its  face  downwards  on  a  sheet 
of  white  paper,  wet  the  back  of  the 
print,  lay  another  sheet  upon  it,  and 
press  it  till  the  red  lines  are  com- 
pletely transferred. 

CORKS.  Economy  in  corks  is 
very  unwise  :  in  order  to  save  a 
mere  trifle  in  the  purchase,  there  is 
a  danger  of  losing  some  valuable 
article  which  it  is  intended  to  pre- 
serve. None  but  velvet  taper  corks 
should  be  used  for  liquors  that  are 
to  be  kept  for  any  length  of  time  ; 
and  when  a  bottle  of  ketchup  or  of 
anchovy  is  opened,  the  cork  should 
be  thrown  away,  and  a  new  one  put 
in  that  will  fit  it  very  tight.  If  a 
cork  is  forced  down  even  with  the 
mouth  of  the  bottle,  it  is  too  small, 
and  should  be  drawn,  that  a  larger 
one  may  be  put  in. 

CORK  CEMENT.     Liquors  and 
preserves,  intended  to  be  kept  a  long 
time,  are  often  spoiled  by  the  clumsy 
90 


and  inefl'ectual  manner  in  which  they 
are  fastened  down.  Bottles  there- 
fore should  be  secured  with  the  fol- 
lowing cement,  spread  upon  the  cork 
after  it  is  cut  level  with  the  top  of 
the  bottle.  Melt  in  an  earthen  or 
iron  pot  half  a  pound  of  black  rosin, 
half  a  pound  of  sealing  wax,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  bees  wax. 
When  it  froths  up,  and  before  all  is 
melted  and  likely  to  boil  over,  stir  it 
with  a  tallow  candle,  which  will  set- 
tle the  froth  till  all  is  melted  and  fit 
for  use. 

CORNS.  Apply  to  warts  and 
corns,  a  piece  of  soft  brown  paper 
moistened  with  saliva,  and  a  few 
dressings  will  remove  them.  A  con- 
venient plaster  may  also  be  made  of 
an  ounce  of  pitch,  half  an  ounce  of 
galbanum  dissolved  in  vinegar,  one 
scruple  of  ammoniac,  and  a  dram 
and  a  half  of  diachylon  mixed  to- 
gether. 

COSTIVENESS.  From  whatever 
cause  it  may  arise,  frequent  exercise 
in  the  open  air,  and  abstinence  from 
heating  liquors,  will  be  found  very 
beneficial.  To  those  who  are  afliict- 
ed  with  this  complaint,  it  is  particu- 
larly recommended  that  they  should 
visit  the  customary  retreat  every 
morning  at  a  stated  hour,  that  na- 
ture may  in  this  respect,  by  perse- 
verance, acquire  a  habit  of  regula- 
rity. In  obstinate  cases,  three  drams 
of  carbon  may  be  taken  two  or  three 
times  a  day,  mixed  with  three  ounces 
of  lenitive  electuary,  and  two  drams 
of  carbonate  of  soda,  as  circumstan- 
ces may  require.  Half  an  ounce  of 
Epsom  salts,  dissolved  in  a  tumbler 
or  two  of  cold  water,  and  drank  at 
intervals,  will  have  a  very  salutary 
effect. 

COTTENHAM  CHEESE.  Though 
this  is  so  much  noted  for  its  supe- 
rior flavour  and  delicacy,  it  does  not 
appea*  to  be  owing  to  any  particu- 
lar management  of  the  dairy,  but 
rather  to  the  fragrance  of  the  herb- 
age on  which  the  cows  feed  in  that 
part  of  the  country. 


cow 


eow 


COUGHS.  The  extract  of  malt 
will  be  found  an  excellent  remedy 
for  coughs  or  colds.  Pour  as  much 
hot  water  over  half  a  bushel  of  pale 
ground  malt  as  will  just  cover  it ; 
the  water  must  not  be  boiling.  In 
forty-eight  hours  drain  off  the  liquor 
entirely,  but  without  squeezing  the 
grains.  Put  the  former  into  a  large 
sweetmeat  pan,  or  saucepan,  that 
there  may  be  room  to  boil  as  quick 
as  possible,  without  boiling  over. 
When  it  begins  to  thicken,  stir  it 
constantly,  till  it  becomes  as  thick 
as  treacle.  Take  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  it  three  times  a  day. — Another 
remedy  for  a  bad  cough  may  be  pre- 
pared as  follows.  Mix  together  a 
pint  of  simple  mint  water,  two  ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of  sallad  oil,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  hartshorns,  sweetened 
with  sugar,  and  take  two  large 
spoonfuls  of  the  mixture  two  or 
three  times  a  day. 

COURT  PLAISTER.  Dissolve 
half  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  an  ounce 
of  water,  and  boil  it  till  the  water  is 
nearly  all  consumed  ;  then  add  gra- 
dually a  dram  of  Friar's  balsam, 
and  stir  them  well  together.  Dip  a 
brush  in  the  hot  mixture,  and  spread 
it  on  a  piece  of  clean  silk. 

COWS.  In  the  management  of 
cows  intended  for  the  dairy,  a  warm 
stable  or  cowhouse  i§  of  great  im- 
portance. Cows  kept  at  pasture  will 
require  from  one  to  two  acres  of 
land  each  to  keep  them  during  the 
summer  months  ;  but  if  housed,  the 
produce  of  one  fourth  part  will  be 
sufficient.  Their  dung,  which  would 
otherwise  be  wasted  on  the  ground 
by  the  action  of  the  sun  and  weather, 
is  hereby  easily  preserved,  and  given 
to  the  soil  where  it  is  most  wanted, 
and  in  the  best  condition.  The 
treading  on  the  grass  and  pasture, 
which  diminishes  its  value,  is  pre- 
vented ;  the  expence  of  division- 
fences  is  avoided,  and  the  time  and 
trouble  of  driving  them  about  is  all 
saved.  They  are  also  kept  more 
cool,  are  less  tormented  by  flies  than 


if  pastured,  acquire  good  coats  and 
full  flesh,  though  they  consume  a 
much  smaller  quantity  of  food. 
They  are  in  all  respects  more  profit- 
ably kept  in  the  house,  than  out  of 
doors  ;  but  they  must  be  regularly 
and  gradually  trained  to  it,  or' they 
will  not  thrive.  Cows  should  always 
be  kept  clean,  laid  dry,  and  have 
plenty  of  good  water  to  drink.  They 
should  never  be  suff(ered  to  drink  at 
stagnant  pools,  or  where  there  are 
frogs,  spawn,  or  filth  of  any  kind  ; 
or  from  common  sewers  or  ponds 
that  receive  the  drainings  of  stables, 
or  such  kind  of  places ;  all  which 
are  exceedingly  improper.  One  of 
the  most  eff'ectual  means  of  render- 
ing their  milk  sweet  and  wholesome, 
as  well  as  increasing  its  quantity,  is 
to  let  them  drink  freely  of  water  in 
which  the  most  fragrant  kind  of  clo- 
ver or  lucern  has  been  steeped  :  and 
if  they  are  curried  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  horses,  they  will  not  only  re- 
ceive pleasure  from  it,  but  give  their 
milk  more  freely.  In  Holland,  where 
the  greatest  attention  is  paid  to  all 
kinds  of  domestic  animals,  the  haun- 
ches of  dairy  cows  are  washed  morn- 
ing and  evening  with  warm  water 
previous  to  milking,  and  after  calv- 
ing are  clothed  with  sacking.  The 
floors  of  their  cowhouses  are  paved 
with  brick,  with  a  descent  in  the 
middle,  where  a  gutter  carries  off"  the 
drain,  and  the  place  is  kept  perfect- 
ly clean  with  a  broom  and  pails  of 
water.  The  filthy  state  in  which, 
cows  are  confined  in  the  vicinity  of 
London,  and  other  large  cities,  and 
the  manner  in  which  they  are  lite- 
rally crammed,  not  with  wholesome 
food,  but  with  such  things  as  are 
calculated  to  produce  an  abundance 
of  milk,  cannot  be  too  severely  re- 
probated as  injurious  to  the  public 
health.  It  is  also  notorious,  that 
vessels  of  hot  and  cold  water  are 
always  kept  in  these  cowhouses  for 
the  accomodation  of  mercenary  re- 
tailers, who  purchase  a  quantity  of 
milk  at  a  low  price,  and  then  mix  it 
91 


cow 


cow 


with  such  a  proportion  of  water  as 
they  think  necessary  to  reduce  it  to 
a  proper  standard  ;  when  it  is  hawk- 
ed about  at  an  exorbitant  price.  The 
milk  is  not  pure  in  its  original  state, 
and  being  afterwards  adulterated,  it 
is  scarcely  fit  for  any  purpose  in  a 
family.  The  first  object  in  the  ar- 
ticle of  food,  is  wholesomeness  ;  and 
grass  growing  spontaneously  on  good 
meadow-land  is  in  general  deemed 
most  proper  for  cows  intended  to 
supply  the  dairy.  The  quantity  of 
milk  produced  by  those  which  feed 
on  sainfoin  is  however  nearly  double 
to  that  of  any  other  provender :  it  is 
also  richer  in  quality,  and  will  yield 
a  larger  quantity  of  cream :  of  course 
the  butter  will  be  better  coloured 
and  flavoured  than  any  other.  Tur- 
nips and  carrots  form  an  excellent 
article,  and  cannot  be  too  strongly 
recommended,  especially  as  a  winter 
food  ;  but  they  should  be  cleaned 
aud  cut ;  and  parsnips,  with  the  tops 
taken  off  will  produce  abundance  of 
milk,  of  a  superior  quality  ;  and 
cows  will  eat  them  freely  though 
they  are  improper  for  horses.  Of 
all  vegetable  productions,  perhaps 
the  cabbage  is  the  most  exuberant 
for  this  purpose,  and  ought  by  all 
means  to  be  encouraged.  The  drum- 
headed  cabbage,  and  the  hardy  va- 
riety of  a  deep  green  colour  with 
purple  veins,  and  of  the  same  size 
with  the  drum-head,  are  particularly 
useful  in  the  feeding  of  cows,  and 
afford  an  increase  of  milk  far  supe- 
rior to  that  produced  by  turnips. 
They  are  also  excellent  for  the  fat- 
tening of  cattle,  which  they  will  do 
six  weeks  sooner  than  any  other  ve- 
getables, though  the  cabbage  plant 
is  generally  supposed  to  impart  a 
disagreeable  flavour  to  butter  and 
cheese  made  from  the  milk  of  cows 
fed  upon  it,  yet  this  may  easily  be 
prevented  by  putting  a  gallon  of  boil- 
ing water  to  six  gallons  of  milk, 
when  it  is  standing  in  the  trays  ; 
or  by  dissolving  an  ounce  of  saltpe- 
tre in  a  quart  of  spring  water,  and 
92 


mixing  about  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  it  with  ten  or  twelve  gallons  of 
milk  as  it  comes  from  the  cow.  By 
breaking  off  the  loose  leaves,  and 
giving  only  the  sound  part  to  the 
cows,  this  disagreeable  quality  may 
also  be  avoided,  as  other  cattle  will 
eat  the  leaves  without  injury.  When 
a  cow  has  been  milked  for  several 
years,  and  begins  to  grow  old,  the 
most  advantageous  way  is  to  make 
her  dry.  To  effect  this,  bruise  six 
ounces  of  white  rosin,  and  dissolve 
it  in  a  quart  of  water.  The  cow 
having  been  housed,  should  then 
be  bled  and  milked ;  and  after  the 
mixture  has  been  administered,  she 
should  be  turned  into  good  grass. 
She  is  no  longer  to  be  milked,  but 
fattened  on  rich  vegetables.  Cows 
intended  for  breeding,  should  be 
carefully  selected  from  those  which 
give  plenty  of  milk.  During  three 
months  previously  to  calving,  if  in 
the  spring,  they  should  be  turned 
into  sweet  grass ;  or  if  it  happen  in 
the  winter,  they  ought  to  be  well  fed 
with  the  best  hay.  The  day  and 
night  after  they  have  calved,  they 
should  be  kept  in  the  house,  and 
lukewarm  water  only  allowed  for 
their  drink.  They  may  be  turned 
out  the  next  day,  if  the  weather  be 
warm,  but  regularly  taken  in  for 
three  or  four  successive  nights  ;  or 
if  the  weather  be  damp  and  cold, 
it  is  better  to  girt  them  round  with 
sacking,  or  keep  them  wholly  with- 
in. Cows  thus  housed  should  be 
kept  in  every  night,  till  the  morning 
cold  is  dissipated,  and  a  draught  of 
warm  water  given  them  previously 
to  their  going  to  the  field.  If  the 
udder  of  a  milking  cow  becomes  hard 
and  painful,  it  should  be  fomented 
with  warm  water  and  rubbed  with  a 
gentle  hand.  Or  if  the  teats  are 
sore,  they  should  be  soaked  in  warm 
water  twice  a  day  ;  and  either  be 
dressed  with  soft  ointment,  or  done 
with  spirits  and  water.  If  the  for- 
mer, great  cleanliness  is  necessary : 
the  milk  at  these  times  is  best  given 


cow 


CRA 


lo  the  pigs.  Or  if  a  cow  be  injured 
by  a  blow  or  wound,  the  part  affect- 
ed should  be  suppled  several  times 
a  day  with  fresh  butter  ;  or  a  salve 
prepared  of  one  ounce  of  Castile 
soap  dissolved  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
fresh  milk  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring 
it  constantly,  to  form  a  complete 
mixture.  But  if  the  wound  should 
turn  to  an  obstinate  ulcer,  take  Cas- 
tile soap,  gum  ammoniac,  gum  galba- 
num,  and  extract  of  hemlock,  each 
one  ounce ;  form  them  into  eight 
boluses,  and  administer  one  of  them 
every  morning  and  evening.  To 
prevent  cows  from  sucking  their  own 
milk,  as  some  of  them  are  apt  to  do, 
rub  the  teats  frequently  with  strong 
rancid  cheese,  which  will  prove  an 
effectual  remedy. 

COW  HEELS.  These  are  very 
nutricious,  and  may  be  variously 
dressed.  The  common  way  is  to 
boil,  and  serve  them  in  a  napkin, 
with  melted  butter,  mustard,  and  a 
large  spoonful  of  vinegar.  Or  broil 
them  very  tender,  and  serve  them  as 
a  brown  fricassee.  The  liquor  will 
do  to  make  jelly  sweet  or  relishing 
and  likewise  to  give  richness  to  soups 
or  gravies.  Another  way  is  to  cut 
them  into  four  parts,  to  dip  them 
into  an  egg,  and  then  dredge  and  fry 
them.  They  may  be  garnished  with 
fried  onions,  aud  served  with  sauce 
as  above.  Or  they  may  be  baked 
as  for  mock  turtle. 

COWSLIP  MEAD.  Put  thirty 
pounds  of  honey  into  fifteen  gallons 
of  water,  and  boil  till  one  gallon  is 
wasted  ;  skim  it,  and  take  it  off  the 
fire.  Have  a  dozen  and  a  half  of 
lemons  ready  quartered,  pour  a  gal- 
lon of  the  liquor  boiling  hot  upon 
them,  and  the  remainder  into  a  tub, 
with  seven  pecks  of  cowslip  pips. 
Let  them  remain  there  all  night ; 
then  put  the  liquor  and  the  lemons 
to  eight  spoonfuls  of  new  yeast,  and 
a  handful  of  sweet-briar.  Stir  all 
well  together,  and  let  it  work  for 
three  or  four  days  ;  then  strain  and 


tun  it  into  a  cask*     Let  it  stand  six 
months,  and  bottle  it  for  keeping. 

COWSLIP  WINE.  To  every  gal- 
lon of  water,  weigh  three  pounds  of 
lump  sugar;  boil  them  together  half 
an  hour,  and  take  off  the  scum  as  it 
rises.  When  sufficiently  cool,  put 
to  it  a  crust  of  toasted  bread  dipped 
in  thick  yeast,  and  let  the  liquor 
ferment  in  the  tub  thirty  six  hours. 
Then  put  into  the  cask  intended  for 
keeping  it,  the  peel  of  two  and  the 
rind  of  one  lemon,  for  every  gallon 
of  liquor ;  also  the  peel  and  the  rind 
of  one  Seville  orange,  and  one  gallon 
of  cowslip  pips.  Pour  the  liquor 
upon  them,  stir  it  carefully  every  day 
for  a  week,  and  for  every  five  gal- 
lons put  in  a  bottle  of  brandy.  Let 
the  cask  be  close  stopped,  and  stand 
only  six  weeks  before  it  be  bottled  off. 

CRABS.  The  heaviest  are  best, 
and  those  of  a  middling  size  the 
sweetest.  If  light  they  are  watery : 
when  in  perfection  the  joints  of  the 
legs  are  stiff,  and  the  body  has  a 
very  agreeable  smell.  The  eyes  look 
dead  and  loose  when  stale.  The  fe- 
male crab  is  generally  preferred  : 
the  colour  is  much  brighter,  the 
claws  are  shorter,  and  the  apron  in 
front  is  much  broader.  To  dress  a 
hot  crab,  pick  out  the  meat,  and 
clear  the  shell  from  the  head.  Put 
the  meat  into  the  shell  again,  with  a 
little  nutmeg,  salt,  pepper,  a  bit  of 
butter,  crumbs  of  bread,  and  three 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Then  set  the 
crab  before  the  fire,  or  brown  the 
meat  with  a  salamander.  It  should 
be  served  on  a  dry  toast. — To  dress 
a  cold  crab,  empty  the  shell,  mix 
the  flesh  with  a  small  quantity  of 
oil,  vinegar,  salt,  white  pepper  and 
cayenne.  Return  the  mixture,  and 
serve  it  up  in  the  shell. 

CRACKNELS.  Mix  with  a  quart 
of  flour,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten,  and  four 
spoonfuls  of  rose  water.  Make  the 
whole  into  a  stift*  paste,  with  cold 
water.  Then  roll  in  a  pound  of  but- 
9a 


CR  A 


CRE 


ler,  and  make  the  paste  into  the 
shape  of  cracknels.  3oil  them  in  a 
kettle  of  water  till  they  swim,  and 
then  put  them  into  cold  water.  When 
hardened,  lay  them  out  to  dry,  and 
bake  them  on  tin  plates. 

CRACKNUTS.  Mix  eight  ounces 
of  fine  flour,  with  eight  ounces  of 
sugar,  and  melt  four  ounces  of  but- 
ter in  two  spoonfuls  of  raisin  wine. 
With  four  eggs  beaten  and  strained, 
make  the  whole  into  a  paste,  and 
add  carraway  seed.  Roll  the  paste 
out  as  thin  as  paper,  cut  it  into 
shapes  with  the  top  of  a  glass,  wash 

them  with  the  white  of  an  eog:,  and 
II  •       •  ~~' 

dust  them  over  with  fine  sugar. 

CRAMP.  Persons  subject  to  this 
complaint,  being  generally  attacked 
in  the  night,  should  have  a  board 
fixed  at  the  bottom  of  the  bed, 
against  which  the  foot  should  be 
strongly  pressed  when  the  pain  com- 
mences. This  will  seldom  fail  to 
afford  relief.  When  it  is  more  ob- 
stinate, a  brick  should  be  heated, 
wrapped  in  a  flannel  bag  at  the  bot- 
tom of  the  bed,  and  the  foot  placed 
against  it.  The  brick  will  continue 
warm,  and  prevent  a  return  of  the 
complaint.  No  remedy  however  is 
more  safe  or  more  certain  than  that 
of  rubbing  the  affected  part,  to  re- 
store a  free  circulation.  If  the  cramp 
attack  the  stomach  or  bowels,  it  is 
attended  with  considerable  danger : 
medicine  may  relieve  but  cannot 
cure.  All  hot  and  stimulating  li- 
quors must  be  carefully  avoided, 
and  a  tea-cupful  of  lukewarm  gruel 
or  camomile  tea  should  be  frequent- 
ly given,  with  ten  or  fifteen  drops  of 
deliquidated  salt  of  tartar  in  each. 

CRANBERRIES.  If  for  puddings 
and  pies,  they  require  a  good  deal 
of  sugar.  If  stewed  in  a  jar,  it  is 
the  same  :  but  in  this  way  they  eat 
well  with  bread,  and  are  very  whole- 
some. If  pressed  and  strained,  af- 
ter being  stewed,  they  yield  a  fine 
juice,  which  makes  an  excellent 
drink  in  a  fever. 


CRANBERRY  GRUEL.  Mash  a 
tea-cupful  of  cranberries  in  a  cup 
of  water,  and  boil  a  large  spoonful 
of  oatmeal  in  two  quarts  of  water. 
Then  put  in  the  jam,  with  a  little 
sugar  and  lemon  peel ;  boil  it  half 
an  hour,  and  strain  it  off.  Add  a 
glass  of  brandy  or  sweet  wine. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY.  Make  a 
very  strong  isinglass  jelly.  When 
cold,  mix  it  with  a  double  quantity 
of  cranberry  juice,  pressed  and 
strained.  Sweeten  it  with  fine  loaf 
sugar,  boil  it  up,  and  strain  it  into 
a  shape. — To  make  cranberry  and 
rice  jelly,  boil  and  press  the  fruit, 
strain  the  juice,  and  by  degrees  mix 
it  into  as  much  ground  rice  as  will, 
when  boiled,  thicken  to  a  jelly.  Boil 
it  gently,  keep  it  stirring,  and  sweet- 
en it.  Put  it  in  a  bason  or  form,  and 
serve  it  up  with  milk  or  cream. 

CRAY  FISH.  Make  a  savoury 
fish-jelly,  and  put  some  into  the  bot- 
tom of  a  deep  small  dish.  When 
cold,  lay  the  cray-fish  with  their 
back  downwards,  and  pour  more 
jelly  over  them.  Turn  them  out 
when  cold,  and  it  will  make  a  beau- 
tiful dish.  Prawns  may  be  done  in 
the  same  way. 

CREAM.  Rich  cream  for  tea  or 
coffee  is  prepared  in  the  following 
manner.  Put  some  new  milk  into 
an  earthen  pan,  he-at  it  over  the  fire, 
and  set  it  by  till  the  next  day.  In 
order  to  preserve  it  a  day  or  two 
longer,  it  must  be  scalded,  sweeten- 
ed with  lump  sugar,  and  set  in  a 
cool  place.  If  half  a  pint  of  fresh 
cream  be  boiled  in  an  earthen  pot 
with  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and 
corked  up  close  in  phials  when  cold, 
it  will  keep  for  several  weeks,  and 
be  fit  for  the  tea-table. 

CREAM  FOR  PIES.  Boil  a  pint 
of  new  milk  ten  minutes,  with  a  bit 
of  lemon  peel,  a  laurel  leaf,  four 
cloves,  and  a  little  sugar.  Mix  the 
yolks  of  six  eggs  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour,  strain  the  milk  to 
them,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire. 


CUE 


CRE 


Stir  it  to  a  consistence,  but  do  not 

I         let  it  curdle  :  when  cold  it  may  be 

i  spread  over  any  kind  of  fruit  pies. 

CREAM  FOR  WHEY  BUTTER. 

Set  the  whey  one  day  and  night,  and 

skim  it  till  a  sufficient  quantity  is 

obtained.     Then  boil  it,  and  pour  it 

into  a  pan  or  two  of  cold  water.    As 

the  cream  rises,  skim  it  till  no  more 

comes,  and  then  churn  it.     Where 

new-milk  cheese  is  made  daily,  whey 

butter  for  common  and  present  use 

may  be  made  to  advantage. 

CREAM  CHEESE.  To  make  this 
article,  put  into  a  pan  five  quarts  of 
strippings,  that  is,  the  last  of  the 
milk,  with  two  spoonfuls  of  rennet. 
When  the  curd  is  come,  strike  it 
down  two  or  three  times  with  the 
skimming  dish  just  to  break  it.  Let 
it  stand  two  hours,  then  spread  a 
cheese  cloth  on  a  sieve,  lay  the  curd 
on  it,  and  let  the  whey  drain.  Break 
the  curd  a  little  with  the  hand,  and 
put  it  into  a  vat  with  a  two-pound 
weight  upon  it.  Let  it  stand  twelve 
hours,  take  it  out,  and  bind  a  fillet 
,  round.  Tarn  it  every  day  till  dry, 
from  one  board  to  another ;  cover 
them  with  nettles  or  clean  dock- 
leaves,  and  lay  them  between  two 
pewter  plates  to  ripen.  If  the  wea- 
ther be  warm,  the  cheese  will  be 
ready  in  three  weeks. — Another  way. 
Prepare  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
put  five  quarts  of  new  milk  into  a 
pan,  five  pints  of  cold  water,  and 
five  of  hot.  When  of  a  proper  heat, 
put  in  as  much  rennet  as  will  bring 
it  in  twenty  minutes,  likewise  a  bit 
of  sugar.  When  the  curd  is  come, 
strike  the  skimmer  three  or  four 
times  down,  and  leave  it  on  the  curd. 
In  an  hour  or  two  lade  it  into  the  vat 
without  touching  it ;  put  a  two- 
pound  weight  on  it  when  the  whey 
has  run  from  it,  and  the  vat  is  full. 
— To  make  another  sort  of  cream 
^  cheese,  put  as  much  salt  to  three 
^  pints  of  raw  cream  as  will  season  it. 
'^-  Stir  it  well,  lay  a  cheese  cloth  seve- 
ral times  folded  at  the  bottom  of  a 
sieve,  and  pour  the  curd  upon  it. 


When  it  hardens,  cover  it  with  net- 
tles on  a  pewter  plate. — What  is 
called  Rush  Cream  Cheese  is  made 
as  follows.  To  a  quart  of  fresh 
cream  put  a  pint  of  new  milk,  warm 
enough  to  give  the  cream  a  proper 
degree  of  warmth  ;  then  add  a  little 
sugar  and  rennet.  Set  it  near  the 
fire  till  the  curd  comes  ;  fill  a  vat 
made  in  the  form  of  a  brick,  of  wheat 
straw  or  rushes  sewed  together. 
Have  ready  a  square  of  straw  or 
rushes  sewed  flat,  to  rest  the  vat  on, 
and  another  to  cover  it ;  the  vat  be- 
ing open  at  top  and  bottom.  Next 
day  take  it  out,  change  it  often  in 
order  to  ripen,  and  lay  a  half  pound 
weight  upon  it. — Another  way.  Take 
a  pint  of  very  thick  sour  cream  from 
the  top  of  the  pan  for  gathering  but- 
ter, lay  a  napkin  on  two  plates,  and 
pour  half  into  each.  Let  them  stand 
twelve  hours,  then  put  them  on  a 
fresh  wet  napkin  in  one  plate,  and 
cover  with  the  same.  Repeat  this 
every  twelve  hours,  till  the  cheese 
begins  to  look  dry.  Then  ripen  it 
with  nut  leaves,  and  it  will  be  i"eady 
in  ten  days.  Fresh  nettles,  or  two 
pewter  plates,  will  ripen  cream 
cheese  very  well. 

CREAM  PUDDING.  Slice  the 
crumb  of  a  penny  loaf  into  a  quart 
of  cream,  scald  it  over  the  fire,  and 
break  it  with  a  spoon.  Add  to  it 
six  eggs,  with  three  of  the  whites 
only,  half  a  pound  of  fine  raisins,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  little 
rose  water  and  nutmeg.  Beat  it  all 
up  together,  stir  in  a  little  marrow 
if  approved,  and  bake  it  in  a  dish 
with  paste. 

CREAMS.  To  make  an  excellent 
crearft,  boil  half  a  pint  of  cream  and 
half  a  pint  of  milk  with  two  bay 
leaves,  a  bit  of  lemon  peel,  a  few 
almonds  beaten  to  paste,  with  a  drop 
of  water,  a  little  sugar,  orange  flower 
water,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour 
rubbed  down  with  a  little  cold  milk. 
When  the  cream  is  cold,  add  a  little 
lemon  juice,  and  serve  it  up  in  cups 
or  lemonade  glasses. — For  a  superior 
95 


CRI 


CRU 


article,  whip  up  three  quarters  of  a 
pint  of  very  rich  cream  to  a  strong 
froth,  with  some  finely-scraped  le^ 
mon  peel,  a  squeeze  of  the  juice, 
half  a  glass  of  sweet  wine,  and  su- 
gar to  make  it  pleasant,  but  not  too 
sweet.  Lay  it  on  a  sieve  or  in  a  form, 
next  day  put  it  on  a  dish,  and  orna- 
ment it  with  very  light  puff  paste 
biscuits,  made  in  tin  shapes  the 
length  of  a  finger,  and  about  two 
thick.  Fine  sugar  may  be  sifted 
over,  or  it  may  be  glazed  with  a  lit- 
tle isinglass.  Macaroons  may  be 
used  to  line  the  edges  of  the  dish. 

CRESS  VINEGAR.  Dry  and 
pound  half  an  ounce  of  the  seed  of 
garden  cresses,  pour  upon  it  a  quart 
of  the  best  vinegar,  and  let  it  steep 
ten  days,  shaking  it  up  every  day. 
Being  strongly  flavoured  with  the 
cresses,  it  is  suitable  for  salads  and 
cold  meat.  Celery  vinegar  is  made 
in  the  same  manner. 

CRICKETS.  The  fume  of  char- 
coal will  drive  them  away  :  or  a  lit- 
tle white  arsenic  mixed  with  a  roast- 
ed apple,  and  put  into  the  holes  and 
cracks  where  the  crickets  are,  will 
effectually  destroy  them.  Scotch 
snuff*  dusted  upon  the  holes  where 
they  come  out,  will  also  have  the 
same  effect. 

CRIMP  COD.  Boil  a  handful  of 
salt  in  a  gallon  of  pump  water,  and 
skim  it  clean.  Cut  a  fresh  cod  into 
slices  an  inch  thick,  and  boil  it  brisk- 
ly in  the  brine  a  few  minutes  ;  take 
the  slices  out  very  carefully,  and  lay 
them  on  a  fish  plate  to  drain.  Dry 
and  flour  them,  and  lay  them  at  a 
distance  upon  a  clear  fire  to  broil. 
Serve  with  lobster  or  shrimp  sauce. 
CRIMP  SALMON.  When  the 
salmon  is  scaled  and  cleaned,  take 
off"  the  head  and  tail,  and  cut  the 
body  through  into  large  slices. 
Throw  them  into  a  pan  of  pump  wa- 
ter, sprinkle  on  a  handful  of  bay 
salt,  stir  it  about,  and  then  take  out 
the  fish.  Set  on  a  deep  stewpan, 
boil  the  head  and  tail  whole,  put  in 
some  salt,  but  no  vinegar.  When 
96 


they  have  boiled  ten  minutes,  skim 
the  water  clean,  and  put  in  the  slices. 
When  boiled  enough,  lay  the  head 
and  tail  in  the  dish,  and  the  slices 
round  ;  or  either  part  may  be  dress- 
ed separately. 

CRISP  PARSLEY.  Pick  and  wash 
some  young  parsley,  shake  it  in  a 
dry  cloth  to  drain  the  water  from  it, 
spread  it  on  a  sheet  of  white  paper, 
in  a  Dutch  oven  before  the  fire,  and 
turn  it  frequently  until  it  is  quite 
crisp.  This  is  a  much  better  way 
of  preparing  it  than  by  frying,  which 
is  seldom  well  done  ;  and  it  will 
serve  as  a  neat  garnish  for  fish  or 
lamb  chops. 

CROSS  BUNS.  Warm  before  the 
fire  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  fine 
flour;  add  half  a  pound  of  sifted 
loaf  sugar,  some  coriander  seeds, 
cinnamon  and  mace  finely  pounded. 
Melt  h'^lf  a  pound  of  butter  in  half 
a  pint  of  milk  ;  after  it  has  cooled, 
stir  in  three  table-spoonfuls  of  thick 
yeast,  and  a  little  salt.  Work  the 
whole  into  a  paste,  make  it  into  buns, 
and  cut  a  cross  on  the  top.  Put 
them  on  a  tin  to  rise  before  the  fire, 
brush  them  over  with  warm  milk, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CROWS.  These  birds  are  ex- 
tremely useful  to  the  farmer,  in  de- 
vouring multitudes  of  locusts,  cater- 
pillars, and  other  insects,  which  are 
highly  injurious  to  the  crops  ;  but 
at  certain  seasons  they  have  become 
so  numerous,  and  committed  such 
depredations  on  the  corn  fields,  that 
an  act  of  parliament  has  been  pass- 
ed for  their  destruction.  The  most 
successful  method  is  to  prepare  a 
kind  of  table  between  the  branches 
of  a  large  tree,  with  some  carrion 
and  other  meat,  till  the  crows  are 
accustomed  to  resort  to  the  place 
for  food.  Afterwards  the  meat  may 
be  poisoned ;  and  the  birds  still 
feeding  on  it,  will  be  destroyed.  The 
drug  called  nux  vomica  is  best  adapt- 
ed to  the  purpose. 

CRUMPETS.  Warm  before  the 
fire  two  pounds  of  fine  flour,  with  a 


cue 


CUM 


little  salt,  and  mix  it  with  warm  milk 
and  water  till  it  becomes  stiff.  Work 
up  three  eggs  with  three  spoonfuls 
of  thick  yeast,  and  a  cupful  of  warm 
milk  and  water ;  put  it  to  the  bat- 
ter, and  beat  them  well  together  in 
a  large  bowl,  with  as  much  milk  and 
water  as  will  make  the  batter  thick. 
Set  it  before  the  fire  to  rise,  and 
cover  it  close.  Set  on  the  frying- 
pan,  rub  it  over  with  a  bit  of  butter 
tied  up  in  muslin,  and  pour  in  as 
much  batter  at  a  time  as  is  suffici- 
ent for  one  crumpet.  Let  it  bake 
slowly  till  it  comes  to  a  pale  yellow ; 
and  when  cold,  the  crumpets  may 
be  toasted  and  buttered. 

CUCUMBERS.  The  best  way  of 
cultivating  this  delicious  vegetable 
is  as  follows.  When  the  plants  have 
been  raised  on  a  moderate  hot  bed, 
without  forcing  them  too  much,  they 
should  be  set  in  the  open  ground 
against  a  south  wall  in  the  latter  end 
of  May,  and  trained  upon  the  wall 
like  a  fruit  tree.  When  they  have 
run  up  about  five  feet,  they  will  send 
forth  blossoms,  and  the  fruit  will 
soon  appear.  Cucumbers  of  the 
slender  prickly  sort  are  to  be  pre- 
ferred, and  they  should  not  be  wa- 
tered too  much  while  growing,  as  it 
will  injure  the  fruit.  The  flesh  of 
cucumbers  raised  in  this  way,  will 
be  thicker  and  firmer,  and  the  fla- 
vour more  delicious,  than  those 
planted  in  the  usual  manner,  where 
the  runners  are  suffered  to  trail  upon 
the  ground.  Melons  may  also  be 
treated  in  the  same  manner,  and  the 
quality  of  both  will  be  greatly  im- 
proved.— When  cucumbers  are  to 
be  prepared  for  the  table,  pare  and 
score  them  in  several  rows,  that 
they  may  appear  as  if  slightly  chop- 
ped. Add  some  young  onions,  pep- 
per and  salt,  a  glass  of  white  wine, 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  some  vi- 
negar. Or  cut  them  in  thin  slices, 
with  pepper,  salt,  vinegar,  and  sliced 
onions.  Or  send  them  to  table  whole, 
with  a  sliced  onion  in  a  saucer. 
(No.  5.) 


CUCUMBER  KETCHUP.  Pare 
some  large  old  cucumbers,  cut  them 
in  slices,  and  mash  them ;  add  some 
salt,  and  let  them  stand  till  the  next 
day.  Drain  off  the  liquor,  boil  it 
with  lemon  peel,  mace,  cloves, 
horse-radish,  shalots,  wihite  pepper, 
and  ginger.  Strain  it ;  and  when 
cold  put  it  into  bottles,  with  the 
mace,  cloves  and  peppercorns,  but 
not  the  rest.  A  little  of  this  ketchup 
will  give  an  agreeable  taste  to  al- 
most any  kind  of  gravy  sauce. 

CUCUMBER  VINEGAR.  Pare 
and  slice  fifteen  large  cucumbers, 
and  put  them  into  a  stone  jar,  with 
three  pints  of  vinegar,  four  large 
onions  sliced,  two  or  three  shalots, 
a  little  garlic,  two  large  spoonfuls 
of  salt,  three  tea-spoonfuls  of  pep- 
per, and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  cay- 
enne. Keep  the  vinegar  in  small 
bottles,  to  add  to  sallad,  or  to  eat 
with  meat. 

CULLIS.  To  make  cuUis  for  ra- 
gouts, cut  in  pieces  two  pounds  of 
lean  veal,  and  two  ounces  of  ham. 
Add  two  cloves,  a  little  nutmeg  and 
mace,  some  parsley  roots,  two  car- 
rots sliced,  some  shalots,  and  two 
bay  leaves.  Put  them  into  an  earth- 
en jar  on  a  hot  hearth,  or  in  a»  ket- 
tle of  boiling  water.  Cover  them 
close,  let  them  simmer  for  half  an 
hour,  observing  that  they  do  not 
burn  ;  then  put  in  beef  broth,  stew 
it,  and  strain  it  off. 

CUMBERLAND  PUDDING.  To 
make  what  is  called  the  Duke  of 
Cumberland's  pudding,  mix  six  oun- 
ces of  grated  bread,  the  same  quan- 
tity of  currants  well  cleaned  and 
picked,  the  same  of  beef  suet  finely 
shred,  the  same  of  chopped  apples, 
and  also  of  lump  sugar.  Add  six 
eggs,  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  a  dust 
of  salt,  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon 
minced  as  fine  as  possible ;  also  a 
large  spoonful  each  of  citron,  orange, 
and  lemon  cut  thin.  Mix  them  tho- 
roughly together,  put  the  whole  into 
a  basin,  cover  it  close  with  a  floured 

o  97 


1CU  R 


CUR 


cloth,  and  boil  it  three  hours.  Serve 
it  with  pudding  sauce,  add  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  boiled  together. 

CURD  PUDDING.  Rub  the  curd 
of  two  gallons  of  milk  well  drained 
through  a  sieve.  Mix  it  with  six 
eggs,  a  littlQ  cream,  two  spoonfuls 
of  orange-flower  water,  half  a  nut- 
meg, flour  and  crumbs  of  bread  each 
three  spoonfuls,  currants  and  raisins 
half  a  pound  of  each.  Boil  the  pud- 
ding an  hour  in  a  thick  well-floured 
cloth. 

CURD  PUFFS.  Turn  two  quarts 
of  milk  to  curd,  press  the  whey  from 
it,  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  mix 
four  ounces  of  butter,  the  crumb  of 
a  penny  loaf,  two  spoonfuls  of  cream, 
half  a  nutmeg,  a  little  sugar,  and  two 
spoonfuls  of  white  wine.  Butter 
some  small  cups  or  pattipans,  and 
fill  them  three  parts .  Orange-  flower 
water  is  an  improvement.  Bake  the 
puff's  with  care,  and  serve  with  sweet 
sauce  in  a  boat. 

CURD  STAR.  Set  on  the  fire  a 
quart  of  new  milk,  with  two  or  three 
blades  of  mace  ;  and  when  ready  to 
boil,  put  to  it  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  nine  eggs  well  beaten,  and  as 
much  salt  as  will  lie  upon  a  six- 
pence. Let  it  boil  till  the  whey  is 
clear ;  then  drain  it  in  a  thin  cloth, 
or  hair  sieve.  Season  it  with  sugar, 
and  a  little  cinnamon,  rose  water, 
orange-flower  water,  or  white  wine. 
Put  it  into  a  star  form,  and  let  it 
stand  some  hours  before  it  be  turned 
into  a  dish  :  then  pour  round  it  some 
thick  cream  or  custard. 

CURDS  AND  CREAM.  Put 
three  or  four  pints  of  milk  into  a  pan 
a  little  warm,  and  then  add  rennet 
or  gallina.  When  the  curd  is  come, 
lade  it  with  a  saucer  into  an  earthen 
shape  perforated,  of  any  form  you 
please.  Fill  it  up  as  the  whey  drains 
off,  without  breaking  or  pressing  the 
curd.  If  turned  only  two  hours  be- 
fore wanted,  it  is  very  light ;  but 
those  who  like  it  harder  may  have 
it  so,  by  making  it  earlier,  and 
98 


squeezing  it.  Cream,  milk,  or  a  whip 
of  cream,  sugar,  wine,  and  lemon, 
may  be  put  into  the  dish,  or  into  a 
glass  bowl,  to  serve  with  the  curd. 
— Another  way  is  to  warm  four 
quarts  of  new  milk,  and  add  a  pint 
or  more  of  buttermilk  strained,  ac- 
acording  to  its  sourness.  Keep  the 
pan  covered  till  the  curd  be  suffici- 
ently firm  to  cut,  three  or  four  times 
across  with  a  saucer,  as  the  whey 
leaves  it.  Put  it  into  a  shape,  and 
fill  up  until  it  be  solid  enough  to  take 
the  form.  Serve  with  plain  cream, 
or  mixed  with  sugar,  wine  and  le- 
mon. 

CURDS  AND  WHEY.  Accord- 
ing to  the  Italian  method,  a  more 
delicate  and  tender  curd  is  made 
without  the  use  of  common  rennet. 
Take  a  number  of  the  rough  coats 
that  line  the  gizards  of  turkeys  and 
fowls,  clean  them  from  the  pebbles 
they  contain,  rub  them  well  with 
salt,  and  hang  them  up  to  dry. 
When  to  be  used,  break  off  some 
bits  of  the  skin,  and  pour  on  some 
boiling  water.  In  eight  or  nine  hours 
the  liquor  may  be  used  as  other 
rennet. 

CURING  BUTTER.  It  is  well 
known,  that  butter  as  it  is  generally 
cured,  does  not  keep  for  any  length 
of  time,  without  spoiling  or  becom- 
ing rancid.  The  butter  with  which 
London  is  supplied,  may  be  seen  at 
every  cheesemonger's  in  the  greatest 
variety  of  colour  and  quality ;  and 
it  is  too  often  the  case,  that  even  the 
worst  butter  is  compounded  with 
better  sorts,  in  order  to  procure  a 
sale.  These  practices  ought  to  be 
discountenanced,  and  no  butter  per- 
mitted to  be  sold  but  such  as  is  oi 
the  best  quality  when  fresh,  and  well 
cured  when  salted,  as  there  is  hardly 
any  article  more  capable  of  exciting 
disgust  than  bad  butter.  To  reme- 
dy this  evil,  the  following  process  is 
recommended,  in  preparing  butter 
for  the  firkin.  Reduce  separately 
to  fine  powder  in  a  dry  mortar,  twt 


CUK 


CUR 


pounds  of  the  whitest  common  salt, 
one   pound    of  saltpetre,   and    one 
pound  of  lump  sugar.     Sift  these 
ingredients  one   upon    another,   on 
two  sheets  of  paper  joined  together, 
and  then  mix  them  well  with   the 
hands,  or  with  a  spatula.     Preserve 
the  whole  in  a  covered  jar,   placed 
in  a  dry  situation.     When  required 
to  be  used,  one  ounce  of  this  com- 
position  is    to  be  proportioned   to 
every  pound  of  butter,  and  the  whole 
is  to  be  well  worked  into  the  mass. 
The  butter  may  then  be  put  into  pots 
or  casks  in   the  usual  way.      The 
above  method  is  practised  in  many 
parts  of  Scotland,  and  is  found  to 
preserve  the  butter  much  better  than 
by  using  common  salt  alone.     Any 
housekeeper  can  make  the  experi- 
ment, by  proportioning  the  ingredi- 
ents to  the  quantity  of  butter  ;  and 
the  difference  between  the  two  will 
readily  be  perceived.     Butter  cured 
with  this  mixture  appears  of  a  rich 
marrowy  consistency  and   fine   co- 
lour,  and  never   acquires  a  brittle 
hardness,    nor   tastes    salt,    as    the 
other  is  apt  to  do.     It  should  be 
allowed  to  stand  three  weeks  or  a 
month  before  it  is  used,   and   will 
keep  for  two  or  three  years,  without 
sustaining  the  slightest  injury.    But- 
ter made  in  vessels  or  troughs  lined 
with  lead,  or  in  glazed  earthenware 
pans,  which    glaze    is    principally 
composed  of  lead,  is  too  apt  to  be 
contaminated  by  particles  of  that 
deleterious  metal.    It  is  better  there- 
fore to  use  tinned  vessels  for  mixing 
the  preservative  with  the  butter,  and 
to  pack  it  either  in  wooden  casks, 
or  in  jars  of  the  Vauxhall    ware, 
which  being  vitrified  throughout,  re- 
quire no  inside  glazing. 

CURING  HAMS.  When  hams 
are  to  be  cured,  they  should  hang 
a  day  or  two  ;  then  sprinkle  them 
with  a  little  salt,  and  drain  them 
another  day.  Pound  an  ounce  and 
a  half  of  saltpetre,  the  same  quantity 
of  bay  salt,  half  an  ounce  of  sal- 
prunelle,  and  a  pound  of  the  coarsest 


sugar.  Mix  these  well,  and  rub  them 
into  each  ham  every  day  for  four 
days,  and  turn  it.     If  a  small  one, 
turn  it  every  day  for  three  weeks  : 
if  a  large  one,  a  week  longer,  but  it 
should   not   be   rubbed    after   four 
days.      Before  it  is  dried,  drain  and 
cover  it  with  bran,  and  smoke  it  ten 
days. — Or  choose  the  leg  of  a  hog 
that  is  fat  and  well  fed,  and  hang  it 
up  a  day  or  two.     If  large,   put  to 
it  a  pound  of  bay  salt,  four  oun- 
ces  of  saltpetre,   a   pound   of  the 
coarsest   sugar,    and   a  handful  of 
common    salt,   all  in   fine  powder, 
and  rub  the   mixture  well  into   the 
ham.    Lay  the  rind  downwards,  and 
cover  the  fleshy  part  with  the  salts. 
Baste  it  frequently  with  the  pickle, 
and   turn  it  every  day  for  a  month.. 
Drain  and  throw  bran  over  it,  then 
hang  it  in  a  chimney  where  wood  is 
burnt,  and  turn  it  now  and  then  for 
ten  days. — Another  way  is,  to  hang- 
up the  ham,  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt, 
and  then  to  rub  it  daily  with  the  fol- 
lowing mixture.     Half  a  pound  of 
common  salt,  the  same  of  bay  salt, 
two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  and  two  oun- 
ces of  black  pepper,  incorporated 
with  a  pound  and  a  half  of  treacle. 
Turn  it  twice  a  day  in  the  pickle  for 
three  weeks  ;  then  lay  it  into  a  pail 
of  water  for  one  night,  wipe  it  quite 
dry,    and    smoke   it   two   or   three 
weeks. — To  give  hams  a  high  fla- 
vour, let  them  hang  three  days,  when 
the  weather  will  permit.     Mix  an 
ounce  of  saltpetre  with  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  bay  salt,  the  same  quan- 
tity of  common   salt,   and   also  of 
coarse  sugar,  and  a  quart  of  strong 
beer.     Boil  them  together,  pour  the 
liquor  immediately  upon  the  ham, 
and  turn  it  twice  a  day  in  the  pic- 
kle for  three  weeks.     An  ounce  of 
black  pepper,  and  the  same  quantity 
of  allspice,  in  fine  powder,  added  to 
the  above  will  give  a  still  higher  fla- 
vour.   Wipe  and  cover  it  with  bran, 
smoke  it  three  or  four  weeks  ;  and 
if  there  be  a  strong  fire,  it  should  be 
sewed  up  in  a  coarse  wrapper. — To 
09 


CUK 


CUR 


give  a  ham  a  still  higher  flavour, 
sprinkle  it  with  salt,  after  it  has 
hung  two  or  three  days,  and  let  it 
drain.  Make  a  pickle  of  a  quart  of 
strong  beer,  half  a  pound  of  treacle, 
an  ounce  of  coriander  seed,  two 
ounces  of  juniper  berries,  an  ounce 
of  pepper,  the  same  quantity  of  all- 
spice, an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  half  an 
ounce  of  sal-prunelle,  a  handful  of 
common  salt,  and  a  head  of  shalot, 
all  pounded  or  cut  fine.  Boil  these 
together  for  a  few  minutes,  and  pour 
them  over  the  ham.  This  quantity 
is  sufficient  for  a  ham  of  ten  pounds. 
Rub  and  turn  it  every  day  for  a  fort- 
night ;  then  sew  it  up  in  a  thin  linen 
bag,  and  smoke  it  three  weeks. 
Drain  it  from  the  pickle,  and  rub  it 
in  bran,  before  drying.  In  all  cases 
it  is  best  to  lay  on  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  salt  at  first,  than  to  add 
more  afterwards,  for  this  will  make 
the  ham  salt  and  hard.  When  it 
has  lain  in  pickle  a  few  days,  it 
would  be  advantageous  to  boil  and 
skim  the  brine,  and  pour  it  on  again 
when  cold.  Bacon,  pig's  face,  and 
other  articles  may  be  treated  in  the 
same  manner. 

CURRANT  CREAM.  Strip  and 
bruise  some  ripe  currants,  strain 
them  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  sweet- 
en the  juice  with  refined  sugar.  Beat 
up  equal  quantities  of  juice  and 
cream,  and  as  the  froth  rises  put  it 
into  glasses. 

CURRANT  FRITTERS.  Thicken 
half  a  pint  of  ale  with  flour,  and  add 
some  currants.  Beat  it  up.  quick, 
make  the  lard  boil  in  the  frying-pan, 
and  put  in  a  large  spoonful  of  the 
batter  at  a  time,  which  is  sufficient 
for  one  fritter. 

CURRANT  GRUEL.  Make  a 
pint  of  water  gruel,  strain  and  boil 
it  with  a  table-spoonful  of  clean  cur- 
rants till  they  are  quite  plump.  Add 
a  little  nutmeg  and  sugar,  and  a 
glass  of  sweet  wine.  This  gruel  is 
proper  for  children,  or  persons  of  a 
costive  habit. 

CURRANT  JAM.  Whether  it  be 
100 


made  of  black,  red,  or  white  cur- 
rants, let  the  fruit  be  very  ripe.  Pick 
it  clean  from  the  stalks,  and  bruise 
it.  To  every  pound  put  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  stir  it 
well,  and  boil  it  half  an  hour. 

CURRANT  JELLY.  Strip  the 
fruit,  whether  red  or  black,  and  put 
them  into  a  stone  jar,  to  boil  on  a 
hot  hearth,  or  over  the  fire  in  a 
saucepan  of  water.  Strain  off'  the 
liquor,  and  to  every  pint  add  a  pound 
of  loaf  sugar  in  large  lumps.  Put 
the  whole  into  a  china  or  stone  jar, 
till  nearly  dissolved  ;  then  put  it  into 
a  preserving  pan,  and  skim  it  while 
simmering  on  the  fire.  When  it  will 
turn  to  jelly  on  a  plate,  keep  it  in 
small  jars  or  glasses. 

CURRANT  PIE.  Put  a  paste 
round  the  dish,  fill  it  with  fruit  and 
good  moist  sugar,  add  a  little  water, 
and  cover  it  with  paste.  Place  a 
tea-cup  in  the  dish,  bottom  upwards, 
to  prevent  the  juice  from  boiling 
over.  Baked  currants  are  better 
mixed  with  raspberries  or  damsons. 

CURRANT  SAUCE.  To  make 
the  old  sauce  for  venison,  boil  an 
ounce  of  dried  currants  in  half  a 
pint  of  water  a  few  minutes.  Then 
add  a  small  tea-cupful  of  bread 
crumbs,  six  cloves,  a  glass  of  port 
wine,  and  a  bit  of  butter.  Stir  it 
till  the  whole  is  smooth. 

CURRANT  SHRUB.  Strip  some 
white  currants,  and  prepare  them  in 
a  jar  as  for  jelly.  Strain  the  juice, 
of  which  put  two  quarts  to  one  gal- 
lon of  rum,  and  two  pounds  of  lump 
sugar.  Strain  the  whole  through  a 
jelly  bag. 

CURRANT  WINE.  To  every 
three  pints  of  fruit,  carefully  picked 
and  bruised,  add  one  quart  of  wa- 
ter. In  twenty  -four  hours  strain  the 
liquor,  and,  put  to  every  quart  a 
pound  of  good  Lisbon  sugar.  If  for 
white  currants  use  lump  sugar.  It  is 
best  to  put  the  whole  into  a  large 
pan ;  and  when  in  three  or  four  days 
the  scum  rises,  take  that  oft"  before 
the  liquor  be  put  into  the  barreL 


CUR 


CUR 


Those  who  make  from  their  own 
gardens,  may  not  have  fruit  suffici- 
ent to  till  the  barrel  at  once ;  but 
the  wine  will  not  be  hurt  by  being 
made  in  the  pan  at  diflerent  times, 
invthe  above  proportions,  and  added 
as  the  fruit  ripens  ;  but  it  must  be 
gathered  in  dry  weather,  and  an  ac- 
count taken  of  what  is  put  in  each 
time. — Another  way .  Put  five  quarts 
of  currants,  and  a  pint  of  raspber- 
ries, to  every  two  gallons  of  water. 
Let  them  soak  all  night,  then  squeeze 
and  break  them  well.  Next  day  riib 
them  well  on  a  fine  wire  sieve,  till 
all  the  juice  is  obtained,  and  wash 
the  skins  again  with  some  of  the 
liquor.  To  every  gallon  put  four 
pounds  of  good  Lisbon  sugar,  tun  it 
immediately,  lay  the  bung  lightly  on, 
and  leave  it  to  ferment  itself.  In 
two  or  three  days  put  a  bottle  of 
brandy  to  every  four  gallons,  bung 
it  close,  but  leave  the  vent  peg  out 
a  few  days.  Keep  it  three  years 
in  the  cask,  and  it  will  be  a  fine 
agreeable  wine ;  four  years  would 
make  it  still  better. — Black  Currant 
Wine  is  made  as  follows.  To  every 
three  quarts  of  juice  add  the  same 
quantity  of  water,  and  to  every  three 
quarts  of  the  liquor  put  three  pounds 
of  good  moist  sugar.  Tun  it  into  a 
cask,  reserving  a  little  for  filling  up. 
Set  the  cask  in  a  warm  dry  room, 
and  the  liquor  will  ferment  of  itself. 
When  the  fermentation  is  over,  take 
off  the  scum,  and  fill  up  with  the 
reserved  liquor,  allowing  three  bot- 
tles of  brandy  to  forty  quarts  of  wine. 
Bung  it  close  for  nine  months,  then 
bottle  it ;  drain  the  thick  part  through 
a  jelly  bag,  till  that  also  be  clear  and 
fit  for  bottling.  The  wine  should 
then  be  kept  ten  or  twelve  months. 
CURRIES.  Cut  fowls  or  rabbits 
into  joints ;  veal,  lamb  or  sweet- 
breads into  small  pieces.  Put  four 
ounces  of  butter  into  a  stewpan ; 
when  melted,  put  in  the  meat,  and 
two  sliced  onions.  Stew  them  to  a 
nice  brown,  add  half  a  pint  of  broth, 
and  let  it  simmer  twenty  minutes. 


Mix  smooth  in  a  basin  one  taWe- 
spoonful  of  currie  powder,  one  of 
flour,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
with  a  little  cold  water.  Put  the 
paste  into  the  stewpan,  shake  it  well 
about  till  it  boils,  and  let  it  simmer 
twenty  minutes  longer.  Just  before 
it  is  dished  up,  squeeze  in  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  and  add  a  good  ta- 
ble-spoonful of  melted  butter. 

CURRIE  BALLS.  Take  some 
bread  crumbs,  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
boiled  hard,  and  a  bit  of  fresh  but- 
ter about  half  the  size ;  beat  them 
together  in  a  mortar,  season  with  a 
little  currie  powder,  roll  the  paste 
into  small  balls,  and  boil  them  two 
OF  three  minutes.  These  will  serve 
for  mock  turtle,  veal,  poultry,  and 
made  dishes. 

CURRIE  OF  COD.  This  should 
be  made  of  sliced  cod,  that  has  ei- 
ther been  crimped,  or  sprinkled  with 
salt  for  a  day,  to  make  it  firm.  Fry 
it  of  a  fine  brown  with  onions,  and 
stew  it  with  a  good  white  gravy,  a 
little  currie  powder,  a  bit  of  butter 
and  flour,  three  or  four  spoonfuls  of 
rich  cream,  salt,  and  cayenne,  if  the 
powder  be  not  hot  enough. 

CURRIE  OF  LOBSTERS.  Take 
them  from  the  shells,  lay  them  into 
a  pan  with  a  small  piece  of  mace, 
three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  veal  gravy, 
and  four  of  cream.  Rub  smooth  one 
or  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  currie  pow-. 
der,  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour,  and  an 
ounce  of  butter.  Simmer  them  to- 
gether an  hour, '  squeeze  in  half  a 
lemon,  and  add  a  little  salt.  Cur- 
rie of  prawns  is  made  in  the  same 
way. 

CURRIE  POWDER.  Dry  and 
reduce  the  following  articles  to  a 
fine  powder.  Three  ounces  of  co- 
riander seed,  three  ounces  of  turme- 
ric, one  ounce  of  black  pepper,  and 
one  of  ginger ;  half  an  ounce  of 
lesser  cardamoms,  and  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  each  of  cinnamon,  cummin 
seed,  and  cayenne.  Thoroughly 
pound  and  mix  them  together,  and 
keep  it  in  a  well-stopped  bottle. 
101 


c  us 


CUT 


CURRIE  SAUCE.  Stir  a  small 
quantity  of  currie  powder  in  some 
g:ravy,  melted  butter,  or  onion  sauce. 
This  must  be  done  by  degrees,  ac- 
cording to  the  taste,  taking  care  not 
to  put  in  too  much  of  the  currie 
powder. 

CURRIE  SOUP.  Cut  four  pounds 
of  a  breast  of  veal  into  small  pieces, 
put  the  trimmings  into  a  stewpan 
with  two  quarts  of  water,  twelve 
peppercorns,  and  the  same  of  all- 
spice. When  it  boils,  skim  it  clean  ; 
and  after  boiling  an  hour  and  a  half, 
strain  it  off.  While  it  is  boiling,  fry 
the  bits  of  veal  in  butter,  with  four 
onions.  When  they  are  done,  add 
the  broth  to  them,  and  put  it  on  the 
fire.  Let  it  simmer  half  an  hour, 
then  mix  two  spoonfuls  of  currie 
powder,  and  the  same  of  flour,  with 
a  little  cold  water  and  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  salt,  and  add  these  to  the 
soup.  Simmer  it  gently  till  the  veal 
is  quite  tender,  and  it  is  ready.  Or 
bone  a  couple  of  fowls  or  rabbits, 
and  stew  them  in  the  same  manner. 
Instead  of  black  pepper  and  allspice, 
a  bruised  shalot  may  be  added,  with 
some  mace  and  stinger. 

CUSTARDS.^  To  make  a  cheap 
and  excellent  custard,  boil  three 
pints  of  new  milk  with  a  bit  of  lemon 
peel,  a  bit  of  cinnamon,  two  or  three 
bay  leaves,  and  sweeten  it.  Mean- 
while rub  down  smooth  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  rice  flour  in  a  cup  of  cold 
milk,  and  mix  with  it  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  well  beaten.  Take  a  ba- 
sin of  the  boiling  milk  and  mix  with 
the  cold,  then  pour  it  to  the  boiling, 
stirring  it  one  way  till  it  begin  to 
thicken,  and  is  just  going  to  boil 
up  ;  then  pour  it  into  a  pan,  stir  it 
some  time,  add  a  large  spoonful  of 
peach  water,  two  spoonfuls  of  bran- 
dy, or  a  little  ratafia.  Marbles  boiled 
in  custard,  or  any  thing  likely  to 
burn,  will  prevent  it  from  catching 
if  shaked  about  in  the  saucepan. — 
To  make  a  richer  custard,  boil  a  pint 
of  milk  with  lemon  peel  and  cinna- 
mon. Mix  a  pint  of  cream,  and  the 
X02 


yolks  of  five  eggs  well  beaten.  When 
the  milk  tastes  of  the  seasoning, 
sweeten  it  enough  for  the  whole  ; 
pour  into  the  cream,  stirring  it  well; 
then  give  the  custard  a  simmer,  till 
it  come  to  a  proper  thickness.  Stir 
it  wholly  one  way,  season  it  as  above, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil.  If  the  custard 
is  to  be  very  rich,  add  a  quart  of 
cream  to  the  eggs  instead  of  milk. 

CUSTARD  PASTE.  Six  ounces 
of  butter,  three  spoonfuls  of  cream, 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  are  to  be  mixed  well 
together.  Let  it  stand  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  work  it  well,  and  roll  it  out 
thin. 

CUSTARD  PUDDING.  Mix  by 
degrees  a  pint  of  good  milk  with  a 
large  spoonful  of  flour,  the  yolks  of 
five  eggs,  some  orange-flower  water, 
and  a  little  pounded  cinnamon.  But- 
ter a  bason  that  will  just  hold  it, 
pour  in  the  batter,  and  tie  a  floured 
cloth  over.  Put  it  in  When  the  wa- 
ter boils,  turn  it  about  a  few  minutes 
to  prevent  the  egg  settling  on  one 
side,  and  half  an  hour  will  boil  it. 
Put  currant  jelly  over  the  pudding, 
and  serve  it  with  sweet  sauce. 

CUTLETS  MAINTENOI^f.  Cut 
slices  of  veal  three  quarters  of  an 
inch  thick,  beat  them  with  a  rjplling- 
pin,  and  wet  them  on  both  sides  with 
egg.  Dip  them  into  a  seasoning  of 
bread  crumbs,  parsley,  thyme,  knot- 
ted marjarom,  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
little  grated  nutmeg.  Then  put  them 
into  white  papers  folded  over,  and 
broil  them.  Have  ready  some  melted 
butter  in  a  boat,  with  a  little  mush- 
room ketchup. — Another  way  is  to 
fry  the  cutlets,  after  they  have  been 
prepared  as  above.  Dredge  a  little 
flour  into  the  pan,  and  add  a  piece 
of  butter  ;  brown  it,  pour  in  a  little 
boiling  water,  and  boil  it  quick. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  ketch- 
up, and  pour  over  them. — Or,  pre- 
pare as  before,  and  dress  the  cut- 
lets in  a  Dutch  oven.  Pour  over 
them  melted  butter  and  mushrooms. 
Neck   steaks    especially   are    good 


D  A  1 


DAI 


broiled,  after  being  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  and  in  this  way 
they  do  not  require  any  herbs. 

CUTTING  GLASS.  If  glass  be 
held  in  one  hand  under  water,  and 
a  pair  of  scissars  in  the  other,  it 
may  be  cut  like  brown  paper  ;  or  if 
a  red  hot  tobacco  pipe  be  brought 
in  contact  with  the  edge  of  the  glass, 
and  afterwards  traced  on  any  part 
of  it,  the  crack  will  follow  the  edge 
of  the  pipe. 

CUTTING  OF  TEETH.  Great 
care  is  required  in  feeding  young 
children  during  the  time  of  teething. 
They  often  cry  as  if  disgusted  with 
food,  when  it  is  chiefly  owing  to  the 
pain  occasioned  by  the  edge  of  a 


silver  or  metal  spoon  pressing  oil 
their  tender  gums.  The  spoon  ought 
to  be  of  ivory,  bone,  or  wood,  with 
the  edges  round  and  smooth,  and 
care  should  be  taken  to  keep  it  sweet 
and  clean.  At  this  period  a  mode- 
rate looseness,  and  a  copious  flow 
of  saliva,  are  favourable  symptoms. 
With  a  view  to  promote  the  latter, 
the  child  should  be  suffered  to  gnaw 
such  substances  as  tend  to  mollify 
the  gums,  and  by  their  pressure  to 
facilitate  the  appearance  of  the  teeth. 
A  piece  of  liquorice  or  marshmallow 
root  will  be  serviceable,  or  the  gums 
may  be  softened  and  relaxed  by 
rubbing  them  with  honey  or  sweet 
oil. 


D. 


Dairy,  in  a  publication  intend- 
ed for  general  usefulness,  the  ma- 
nagement of  the  dairy,  the  source  of 
so  many  comforts,  demands  some 
attention,  in  addition  to  the  informa- 
tion conveyed  under  various  other 
articles,  connected  with  this  inter- 
esting part  of  female  economy.  A 
dairy  house  then  ought  to  be  so  situ- 
ated that  the  windows  or  lattices 
may  front  the  north,  and  it  should 
at  all  times  be  kept  perfectly  cool 
and  clean.  Lattices  are  preferable 
to  glazed  lights,  as  they  admit  a  free 
circulation  of  air ;  and  if  too  much 
wind  draws  in,  oiled  paper  may  be 
pasted  over  the  lattice,  or  a  frame 
constructed  so  as  to  slide  backwards 
and  forwards  at  pleasure.  Dairies 
cannot  be  kept  too  cool  in  the  sum- 
mer :  they  ought  therefore  to  be 
erected,  if  possible,  near  a  spring  of 
running  water.  If  a  pump  can  be 
fixed  in  the  place,  or  a  stream  of 
water  conveyed  through  it,  it  will 
tend  to  preserve  a  continual  fresh- 
ness and  purity  of  the  air.  The  floor 
should  be  neatly  paved  with  red 
brick,  or  smooth  stone,  and  laid  with 


a  proper  descent,  so  that  no  water 
may  stagnate  :  it  should  be  well 
washed  every  day,  and  all  the  uten- 
sils kept  with  the  strictest  regard  to 
cleanliness.  Neither  the  cheese,  ren- 
net, or  cheesepress,  must  be  suff'er-  ^ 
ed  to  contract  any  taint ;  nor  should 
the  churns  be  scalded  in  the  dairy, 
as  the  steam  arising  from  the  hot 
water  tends  greatly  to  injure  the 
milk.  The  utensils  of  the  dairy 
should  all  be  made  of  wood  :  lead, 
copper,  and  brass  are  poisonous, 
and  cast  iron  gives  a  disagreeable 
taste  to  the  productions  of  the  dairy. 
Milk  leads  in  particular  should  be 
utterly  abolished,  and  well-glazed 
earthen  pans  used  in  their  stead. 
Sour  milk  has  a  corroding  tendency, 
and  the  well  known  effects  of  the 
poison  of  lead  are,  bodily  debility, 
palsy,  and  death.  The  best  of  all 
milk  vessels  are  flat  wooden  trays 
about  three  inches  deep,  and  wide 
enough  to  contain  a  full  gallon  of 
milk.  These  may  be  kept  perfectly 
clean  with  good  care,  and  washing 
and  scalding  them  well  w  ith  salt  and 
water.  As  soon  as  the  operation  of 
103 


DAM 


♦DAM 


churn iagf  is  performed,  the  butter 
should  be  washed  immediately  in  se- 
Teral  waters,  till  thoroughly  cleansed 
from  the  milk,  which  should  be  forc- 
ed out  with  a  flat  wooden  ladle,  or 
skimming  dish,  provided  with  a  short 
handle.  This  should  be  quickly  per- 
formed, with  as  little  working  of  the 
butter  as  possible ;  for  if  it  be  too 
much  beaten  and  turned,  it  will  be- 
come tough  and  gluey,  which  greatly 
debases  its  quality.  To  beat  it  up 
with  the  hand  is  an  indelicate  prac- 
tice, as  the  butter  cannot  fail  to  im- 
bibe the  animal  efl3uvia:  a  warm 
hand  especially  will  soften  it,  and 
make  it  appear  greasy.  If  the  heat 
of  the  weather  should  render  it  too 
soft  to  receive  the  impression  of  the 
mould,  it  may  be  put  into  small  ves- 
sels, and  allowed  to  swim  in  a  trough 
of  cold  water,  provided  the  butter 
do  not  come  in  contact  with  the  wa- 
ter, which  would  diminish  some  of 
its  best  qualities.  A  little  common 
salt  must  be  worked  up  m  the  but- 
ter at  the  time  of  making  it,  and 
care  must  be  taken  not  to  handle  it 
too  much.  Meat  hung  in  a  dairy 
will  taint  the  air,  and  spoil  the  milk. 
— See  Butter,  Cheese,  Churn- 
ing, &c. 

DAMP  BEDS.  Of  all  other  means 
of  taking  cold,  damp  beds  are  the 
most  dangerous,  and  persons  who 
keep  them  in  their  houses  are  guilty 
of  a  species  of  murder,  though  it  un- 
fortunately happens  that  no  house- 
wife is  willing  to  acknowledge  that 
her  beds  were  ever  damp.  There  is 
however  no  other  eft'ectual  way  of 
preventing  the  dreadful  effects  so 
often  experienced  in  this  way,  than 
by  keeping  the  beds  in  constant  use, 
or  causing  them  frequently  to  be 
slept  in  till  they  are  wanted  by  a 
stranger.  In  inns,  where  the  beds 
are  used  almost  every  night,  nothing 
more  is  necessary  than  to  keep  the 
rooms  well  aired,  and  the  linen  quite 
dry.  If  a  bed  be  suspected  of  damp- 
ness, introduce  a  glass  goblet  be- 
tween the  sheets  with  its  bottom  up- 
104 


wards,  immediately  after  the  warm- 
ing pan  is  taken  out.  After  a  few 
minutes,  if  any  moisture  adheres  to 
the  inside  of  the  glass,  it  is  a  certain 
sign  that  the  bed  is  damp  :  but  if 
only  a  slight  steam  appears,  all  is 
safe.  If  a  goblet  be  not  at  hand,  a 
looking  glass  will  answer  the  pur- 
pose. The  safest  way  in  all  such 
cases  is  to  take  off  the  sheets,  and 
sleep  between  the  blankets. 

DAMP  HOUSES.  Nothing  is 
more  common  than  for  persons  to 
hazard  their  lives  by  inhabiting  a 
dwelling  almost  as  soon  as  the  plas- 
terer or  the  painter  has  performed 
his  work,  and  yet  this  ought  to  be 
guarded  against  with  the  utmost 
care.  The  custom  of  sitting  in  a 
room  lately  washed,  and  before  it  is 
thoroughly  dried,  is  also  highly  in- 
jurious to  health.  Colds  occasioned 
by  these  means  often  bring  on  asth- 
mas and  incurable  consumptions. 

DAMP  WALLS.  When  a  house 
has  undergone  repairs,  the  walls  are 
apt  to  become  damp,  as  well  as  when 
it  has  been  new  built.  To  prevent 
the  ill  effects,  powder  some  glass 
fine,  mix  it  with  slacked  lime,  dry 
the  mixture  well  in  an  iron  pot,  and 
pass  it  through  a  flour  sieve.  Then 
boil  some  tar  with  a  little  grease 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  make 
a  cement  of  the  whole  together.  Care 
must  be  taken  to  prevent  any  mois- 
ture from  mixing  with  the  cement, 
which  must  be  used  as  soon  as  made. 
Lay  it  on  the  damp  part  of  the  wall 
like  common  plaster  about  a  foot 
square  at  a  time,  or  it  will  quickly 
become  too  hard  for  use :  if  the  wall 
be  very  wet,  a  second  coating  will  be 
required.  Common  hair  mortar  may 
then  be  laid  on,  with  the  addition  of 
a  little  Paris  plaster,  which  will  pre- 
vent the  walls  in  future  from  becom- 
ing damp. 

DAMSON  CHEESE.  Pick  the 
damsons  clean,  bake  them  slowly, 
till  they  may  be  rubbed  through  a 
cullender,  leaving  nothing  but  the 
skins  and  stones.    Boil  the  pulp  and 


D  AM 


DEB 


juice  three  hours  over  a  slow  fire, 
with  some  moist  sugar,  and  keep  it 
stirring  to  prevent  burning.  Blanch 
the  kernels,  and  mix  them  with  the 
jam  a  few  minutes  before  it  be  taken 
off  the  fire.  Put  it  into  cups,  tie  it 
down  with  writing  paper  dipped  in 
brandy,  and  the  cheese  will  keep 
several  years,  if  kept  in  a  dry  place. 

DAMSON  PUDDING.  Line  a 
bason  with  tolerably  thin  paste,  fill 
with  the  fruit,  and  cover  the  paste 
over  it.  Tie  a  cloth  tight  over,  and 
boil  till  the  fruit  is  done  enough. 

DAMSON  WINE.  Take  a  con- 
siderable quantity  of  damsons  and 
common  plums  inclining  to  ripeness ; 
slit  them  in  halves,  so  that  the  stones 
may  be  taken  out,  then  mash  them 
gently,  and  add  a  little  water  and 
honey.  Add  to  every  gallon  of  the 
pulp  a  gallon  of  spring  water,  with 
a  few  bay  leaves  and  cloves :  boil 
the  mixture,  and  add  as  much  sugar 
as  will  sweeten  it,  skim  oflr"  the  froth, 
and  let  it  cool.  Now  press  the  fruit, 
squeezing  out  the  liquid  part ;  strain 
all  through  a  fine  cloth,  and  put  the 
water  and  juice  together  in  a  cask. 
,  Having  allowed  the  whole  to  stand 
;and  ferment  for  three  or  four  days, 
fine  it  with  white  sugar,  flour,  and 
whites  of  eggs.  Draw  it  oft*  into 
bottles,  then  cork  it  well :  in  twelve 
days  it  will  be  ripe,  and  will  taste 
,  like  V.  ea*k  port,  having  a  flavour  of 
canary. 

DAMSONS  PRESERVED.  To 
keep  damsons  for  winter  pies,  put 
them  ia  small  stone  jars,  or  wide- 
mouthed  bottles ;  set  them  up  to  their 
necks  in  a  boiler  of  cold  water,  and 
scald  them.  Next  day,  when  per- 
fectly cold,  fill  up  the  bottles  with 
spring  water,  and  close  them  down. 
— Another  way  is  to  boil  one  third 
as  much  sugar  as  fruit  over  a  slow 
fire,  till  the  juice  adheres  to  the 
fruit,  and  forms  a  jam.  Keep  it  in 
small  jars  in  a  dry  place.  If  too 
sweet,  mix  with  it  some  of  the  fruit 
done  without  sugar. — Or  choose 
,  some  pots  of  equal  size  top  and  bot- 


tom, sutHcient  to  hold  eight  or  nine 
pounds  each.  Put  in  the  fruit  about 
a  quarter  up,  strew  in  a  quarter  of 
the  sugar,  then  another  quantity  of 
fruit,  and  so  on  till  ail  of  both  are 
in.  The  proportion  of  sugar  is  to 
be  three  pounds  to  nine  pounds  of 
fruit.  Set  the  jars  in  the  oven,  and 
bake  the  fruit  quite  through.  When 
cold,  put  a  piece  of  clean-scrape(^ 
stick  into  the  middle  of  the  jar,  and 
let  the  upper  part  stand  above  the 
top.  Cover  the  fruit  with  writing 
paper,  and  pour  melted  mutton-suet 
over,  full  half  an  inch  thick.  Keep 
the  jars  in  a  cool  dry  place,  and  use 
the  suet  as  a  cover,  which  may  be 
drawn  up  by  the  stick,  if  a  forked 
branch  be  left  to  prevent  its  slipping 
out. 

DAVENPORT  FOWLS.  Hang 
up  young  fowls  for  a  night.  Take 
the  liver,  hearts,  and  tenderest  parts 
of  the  gizzards,  and  shred  them 
small,  with  half  a  handful  of  young- 
clary,  an  anchovy  to  each  fowl,  an 
Onion,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
boiled  hard,  seasoning  the  whole 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace.  Stuft* 
the  fowls  with  this  mixture,  and  sew 
up  the  vents  and  necks  quite  close, 
that  the  water  may  not  get  in.  Boil 
them  in  salt  and  ,water  till  almost 
done ;  then  drain  them,  and  put  them 
into  a  stewpan  with  butter  enough 
to  brown  them.  Serve  them  with 
fine  melted  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of 
ketchup  of  either  sort,  in  the  dish. 

DEBILITY.  A  general  relaxation 
of  the  nervous  system  is  the  source 
of  numerous  disorders,  and  requires 
a  treatment  as  various  as  the  causes 
on  which  it  depends.  In  general, 
gentle  heat  possesses  both  stimulat- 
ing and  strengthening  properties, 
and  this  is  best  communicated  by  a 
warm  bath,  which  instead  of  relax- 
ing will  invigorate  the  whole  frame. 
Diet  must  also  be  attended  to  ;  and 
weakly  persons  should  be  careful  to 
eat  light  and  nourishing  food,  and 
plenty  of  nutricious  vegetables.  New 
laid  eggs,  soup,  strong  meat-broth, 
p  105 


DIE 

and  shell-fish  are  also  very  nourish- 
ing. Clothing  should  be  accommo- 
dated to  the  climate  and  changes  of 
weather,  so  as  to  preserve  as  much 
as  possible  a  middle  temperature 
between  cold  and  heat.  Invalids  of 
this  description  require  longer  and 
less  disturbed  rest  than  persons  in 
perfect  health  and  vigour;  labour 
and  exercise  adapted  to  their  habits 
and  strength,  a  clean  but  not  too  soft 
bed,  an  airy  and  capacious  apart- 
ment, and  particularly  a  calm  and 
composed  mind,  which  last  possesses 
a  most  powerful  influence  in  preserv- 
ing health  and  life,  for  without  tran- 
quility, all  other  means  will  be  in- 
effectual. 

DERBYSHIRE  BREAD.  Rub 
four  ounces  of  butter  into  four  pounds 
of  flour,  add  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  large  spoonful 
of  yeast.  Mix  them  into  a  paste, 
make  it  into  rolls,  and  let  them  stand 
half  an  hour  to  rise  before  the  fire. 
Put  them  into  the  oven,  dip  them  in 
milk  the  next  day,  and  then  let  them 
stand  by  the  fire  in  a  Dutch  oven 
about  twenty  minutes.  The  rolls 
will  then  be  very  good,  and  keep  a 
fortnight. 

DEVONSHIRE  JUNKET.  Put 
warm  milk  into  a  bowl,  and  turn  it 
with  rennet.  Then  without  breaking 
the  curd,  put  on  the  top  some  scald- 
ed cream,  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

DIET  BREAD.  Beat  nine  eggs, 
and  add  their  weight  in  sifted  sugar, 
and  half  as  much  flour.  Mix  them 
well  together,  grate  in  the  rind  of  a 
lemon,  and  bake  it  in  a  hoop. 

DIET  DRINK.  Infuse  in  five 
gallons  of  small  beer,  twelve  ounces 
of  red  dock-roots,  the  pith  taken  out ; 
three  ounces  of  chicary  roots,  two 
handfuls  of  sage,  balm,  brooklime, 
and  dandelion  ;  two  ounces  of  senna, 
two  of  rhubard,  f*  ur  ounces  of  red 
saunders,  and  a  few  parsley  and  car- 
raway  seeds.  Or  boil  a  pound  of 
the  fine  raspings  of  guaiacum,  with 
six  gallons  of  sweetwort,  till  reduced 
to  five ;  and  when  it  is  set  to  work, 
106 


DIN 

put  in  the  above  ingredients.  If  a 
little  salt  of  wormwood  be  taken  with 
it,  this  diet  drink  will  act  as  a  diure- 
tic, as  well  as  a  purgative. 

DINNERS.  The  first  course 
for  large  dinner  parties,  generally 
consists  of  various  soups,  fish  dressed 
many  ways,  turtle,  mock  turtle,  boil- 
ed meats  and  stewed  :  tongue,  ham, 
bacon,  chawls  of  bacon,  boiled  tur- 
key and  fowls  :  rump,  sirloin,  and 
ribs  of  beef  roasted :  leg,  saddle, 
and  other  roast  mutton :  roast  fillet, 
loin,  neck,  breast,  and  shoulder  of 
veal :  leg  of  lamb,  loin,  fore-quarter, 
chine,  lamb's  head  and  mince  :  mut- 
ton stuflfed  and  roasted,  steaks  va- 
riously prepared,  ragouts  and  fricas- 
sees :  meat  pies  raised,  and  in  dish- 
es :  patties  of  meat,  fish,  and  fowl : 
stewed  pigeons,  venison,  leg  of  pork, 
chine,  loin,  spare-rib,  rabbits,  hare, 
puddings,  boiled  and  baked  :  vege- 
tables, boiled  and  stewed :  calf's 
head  diflferent  ways,  pig's  feet  and 
ears  different  ways. — Dishes  for  the 
SECOND  COURSE,  birds,  and  game 
of  all  sorts  :  shell-fish,  cold  and  pot- 
ted :  collared  and  potted  fish,  pick- 
led ditto,  potted  birds,  ribs  of  lamb 
roasted,  brawn,  vegetables,  stewed 
or  in  sauce  :  French  beans,  peas, 
asparagus,  cauliflower,  fricassee, 
pickled  oysters,  spinach,  and  arti- 
choke bottoms  :  stewed  celery,  sea 
kale,  fruit  tarts,  preserved-fruit  tarts, 
pippins  stewed,  cheesecakes,  various 
sorts :  a  collection  of  sweet  dishes, 
creams,  jellies,  mince  pies,  and  all 
the  finer  sorts  of  puddings :  omlet, 
macaroni,  oysters  in  scallops,  stew- 
ed or  pickled. — For  remove  s  of  soup 
and  fish,  one  or  two  joints  of  meat 
or  fowl  are  served  ;  and  for  one 
small  course,  the  article  suited  to 
the  second  must  make  a  part.  Where 
vegetables,  fowls,  or  any  other  meat 
are  twice  dressed,  they  add  to  the 
appearance  of  the  table  the  first  time ; 
and  three  sweet  articles  may  form 
the  second  appearance,  without 
greater  expence.  In  some  houses, 
one  dish  at  a  time  is  sent  up  with 


DIS 


DIS 


the  vegetables,  or  sauces  proper  to 
it,  and  this  in  succession  hot  and 
hot.  In  others,  a  course  of  soups 
and  fish  :  then  meats  and  boiled 
fowls,  turkey,  &c.  Made  dishes 
and  game  follow  ;  and  lastly,  sweet 
dishes  ;  but  these  are  not  the  com- 
mon modes.  It  ought  also  to  be  re- 
marked, that  cooks  in  general  do  not 
think  of  sending  up  such  articles  as 
are  in  the  house,  unless  ordered  ; 
though  by  so  doing,  the  addition  of 
something  collared  or  pickled,  some 
fritters,  fried  patties,  or  quick-made 
dumplings,  would  be  useful  when 
there  happen  to  be  accidental  visit- 
ors :  and  at  all  times  it  is  proper  to 
improve  the  appearance  of  the  table 
rather  than  let  things  spoil  below, 
by  which  an  unnecessary  expence 
is  incurred. — Any  of  the  following 
articles  may  be  served  as  a  relish, 
with  the  cheese,  after  dinner.  Baked 
or  pickled  fish  done  high,  Dutch 
pickled  herrings :  sardinias,  which 
eat  like  anchovy,  but  are  larger : 
anchovies,  potted  char,  ditto  lam- 
preys :  potted  birds  made  high,  ca- 
viare and  sippets  of  toast :  salad, 
radishes,  French  pie,  cold  butter, 
potted  cheese,  anchovy  toast. 

DISTRESS  FOR  RENT.  In  these 
days  of  general  complaint  and  gene- 
ral distress,  when  so  many  families 
and  individuals  are  suffering  from 
the  extortions  of  tax-gatherers,  and 
the  severity  of  landlords,  it  is  pro- 
per that  householders  and  occupiers 
of  land  should  be  furnished  with  a 
little  information  on  the  subject  of 
their  legal  rights  and  liabilities,  in 
order  to  guard  against  injustice,  or 
the  fatal  consequences  of  illegal  pro- 
ceedings. It  must  therefore  be  ob- 
served, that  rent  is  recoverable  by 
action  of  debt  at  common  law  ;  but 
the  general  remedy  is  distress,  by 
taking  the  goods  and  chattels  out  of 
the  possession  of  the  tenant,  to  pro- 
cure satisfaction  for  rent.  A  dis- 
tress for  rent  therefore  must  be  made 
for  nonpayment,  or  rent  in  arrears, 
and  cannot  be  made  on  the  day  in 


which  the  rent  becomes  due.  Nei- 
ther can  distress  be  made  after  the 
rent  has  been  tendered;  or  if  it  be 
tendered  while  the  distress  is  making, 
the  landlord  must  deliver  up  the  dis- 
tress. Any  goods  or  effects  that  arc 
damaged  by  the  proceedings  of  the 
landlord,  must  be  made  good  by 
him. — When  distress  is  levied,  it 
should  be  for  the  whole  of  the  rent 
in  arrears ;  not  a  part  at  one  time 
and  the  remainder  at  another,  if  there 
was  at  first  a  sufficiency  ;  but  if  the 
landlord  should  mistake  the  value  of 
the  things,  he  may  make  a  second 
distress  to  supply  the  deficiency.  He 
must  be  careful  to  demand  neither  . 
more  nor  less  than  is  due  ;  he  must 
also  shew  the  certainty  of  the  rent, 
and  when  it  was  due;  otherwise  the 
demand  will  not  be  good,  nor  can  he 
obtain  a  remedy. — A  landlord  may 
distrain  whatever  he  finds  on  the 
premises,  whether  it  be  the  property 
of  his  tenant  or  not,  except  such 
things  as  are  for  the  maintenance 
and  benefit  of  trade;  such  as  work- 
ing tools  and  implements,  sacks  of 
corn,  or  meal  in  a  mill.  Neither  fix- 
tures in  a  house  nor  provisions  can 
be  distrained,  nor  any  other  article 
which  cannot  be  restored  in  as  good 
a  state  as  when  it  was  taken  ;  but 
wearing  apparel  may  be  distramed 
when  they  are  not  in  use.  Money 
out  of  a  bag  cannot  be  distrained, 
because  it  cannot  be  known  again  ; 
but  money  sealed  up  in  a  bag  may. 
A  horse  in  a  cart  cannot  be  distrain- 
ed, without  also  taking  the  cart ;  and 
if  a  man  be  in  the  cart,  these  cannot 
be  taken.  A  horse  bringing  goods 
to  market,  goods  brought  to  market 
to  be  sold,  goods  for  exportation  on 
fi  wharf  or  in  a  warehouse,  goods  in 
the  hands  of  a  factor,  goods  deliver- 
ed to  a  carrier  to  be  conveyed  for 
hire,  wool  in  a  neighbour's  barn,  are  ' 
all  considered  as  goods  in  the  hands 
of  a  third  person,  and  cannot  there- 
fore be  distrained  by  a  landlord  for 
rent.  But  goods  left  at  an  inn  or 
other  place  of  conveyance,  a  chaise 
107 


DIS 


DIS 


or  horse  standing  in  a  stable,  though 
the  property  of  a  third  person,  may 
be  distrained  for  rent.  A  distress 
must  not  be  made  after  dark,  nor  on 
the  Sabbath  day. — Where  a  landlord 
means  to  distrain  for  rent,  it  is  not 
necessary  to  demand  his  rent  first, 
unless  the  tenant  is  on  the  premises 
on  the  day  of  paymen-t,  and  ready  to 
pay  it.  But  if  goods  are  distrained, 
and  no  cause  given  for  so  doing,  the 
owner  may  rescue  them,  if  not  im- 
pounded. ,  Distraining  part  of  the 
goods  for  rent  in  arrear,  in  the  name 
of  the  whole  goods,  will  be  deemed 
a  lawful  seizure.  But  if  distress  and 
sale  be  made  for  rent  when  it  can  be 
proved  that  no  rent  is  due  or  in  ar- 
rear, the  person  so  injured  may  re- 
cover double  the  value  of  such  goods 
distrained,  with  full  costs  of  suit.  If 
goods  be  impounded,  though  they 
have  been  distrained  without  a  cause, 
a  tenant  cannot  touch  them,  because 
they  are  then  in  the  hands  of  the 
law ;  but  if  not  impounded  or  taken 
away,  he  is  at  liberty  to  rescue  tkem. 
— If  distress  be  made  for  rent,  and 
the  goods  are  not  replevied  within 
five  days  after  the  distress  is  made, 
and  notice  left  on  the  premises  stat- 
ing the  cause  of  such  distress,  the 
person  distraining  may  have  the 
goods  appraised  by  two  persons, 
sworn  by  the  constable  of  the  place 
for  that  purpose,  and  may  after  such  ' 
appraisement  sell  them  to  the  best 
advantage.  Jhe  rent  may  then  be 
taken,  including  all  expences,  and 
the  overplus  left  in  the  hands  of  the 
constable  for  the  owner's  use.  If  a 
landlord  commit  aa  unlawful  act  or 
any  other  irregularity,  in  making  dis- 
tress for  rent  which  is  justly  due, 
the  distress  itself  will  not  on  that 
account  be  deemed  unlawful ;  but 
full  damages  may  be  demanded  by 
the  injured  party,  with  full  costs  ol 
suit ;  either  in  an  action  of  trespass, 
or  on  the  case.  But  if  full  recom- 
pense be  tendered  to  the  tenant  for 
sueh  trespass  before  the  action  is 
commenced,  he  is  bound  to  acceot  it.. 
108 


or  the  action  will  be  discharged. — If 
a  tenant  clandestinely  remove  his 
goods,  to  prevent  the  landlord  from 
distraining  them  for  rent,he  may  seize 
the  goods  within  thirty  days,  where- 
ver they  shall  be  found ;  and  if  not  ac- 
tually sold  previous  to  the  seizure,  he 
may  dispose  of  them  in  order  to  recov- 
er his  rent.  Any  tenant  or  assistant 
removing  goods  to  prevent  a  distress, 
is  liable  to  double  the  value  of  the 
goods,  which  the  landlord  may  re- 
cover by  action  at  law.  If  under  the 
value  of  fifty  pounds,  complaint  may 
be  made  in  writing  to  two  neigh- 
bouring magistrates,  who  will  en- 
force the  payment  by  distress,  or 
commit  the  offenders  to  the  house  of 
correction  for  six  months.  If  any 
person  after  the  distress  is  made, 
shall  presume  to  remove  the  goods 
distrained,  or  take  them  avay  from, 
the  person  distraining,  the  party 
aggrieved  may  sue  for  the  injury, 
and  recover  treble  costs  and  damages 
against  the  offender. — A  landlord 
may  not  break  a  lock,  nor  open  a 
gate ;  but  if  the  outer  door  of  the 
house  be  open  he  may  enter,  and 
break  open  the  inner  doors.  But 
where  goods  are  fraudulently  remov- 
ed, and  locked  up  to  prevent  their  be- ' 
ing  seized,  the  landlord  may  break 
open  every  place  where  they  are  and 
seize  them.  If  in  a  dwelling  house, 
an  oath  must  first  be  made  before  a 
magistrate,  that  is  was  suspected  the 
goods  were  lodged  there.  The  most 
eligible  way  is  to  remove  the  goods 
immediately,  and  to  give  the  tenant 
notice  where  they  are  removed  to ; 
but  it  is  usual  to  leave  them  under 
the  protection  of  a  person  on  the 
premises  for  five  whole  days,  after 
which  it  is  lawful  to  sell  them.  In 
making  the  distress,  it  is  necessary 
to  give  the  bailiff"  a  written  order  for 
that  purpose,  which  the  landlord 
may  do  himself  without  any  stamp, 
only  specifying  the  person's  name, 
place  of  abode,  and  rent  in  arrears 
for  which  the  goods  and  chattels  are 
to  be  seized.    After  this  an  inventory 


DOU 


Dili 


is  to  be  made  of  the  articles,  a  copy 
of  which  is  to  be  given  to  the  tenant, 
accompanied  with  a  notice  that  un- 
less the  arrears  of  rent  and  charges 
of  distress  be  paid,  or  the  goods  re- 
plevied at  the  expiration  of  five  days 
from  the  day  of  distress,  the  said 
goods  will  be  appraised  and  sold  ac- 
cording to  law.  If  the  landlord 
chooses  to  indulge  the  tenant  with 
a  longer  time  to  raise  the  money,  a 
memorandum  must  be  taken  of  the 
tenant,  stating  that  possession  is 
lengthened  at  his  request,  or  the 
landlord  will  be  liable  to  an  action 
for  exceeding  the  time  of  his  origi- 
nal notice. — See  TENA^TS. 

DOUBLE  RENT.  If  a  tenant  has 
received  a  written  notice,  and  he  re- 
fuse to  quit,  after  such  notice  has 
been  regularly  served,  and  will  not 
give  possession  at  the  time  required, 
he  is  liable  to  pay  at  the  rate  of 
double  the  annual  value  of  the  land 
or  tenement  so  detained,  for  so  long 
time  as  the  same  are  detained  in  his 
possession,  and  the  payment  may  be 
recovered  by  action  of  debt.  Or  if 
the  tenant  shall  give  notice  of  his 
intention  to  quit  the  premises,  and 
do  not  deliver  up  possession  accord- 
ing to  such  notice,  he  is  liable  to  the 
payment  of  double  rent,  as  in  the 
other  case. — The  following  is  the 
form  of  a  notice  to  a  tenant  to  quit, 
or  to  pay  double  rent.  *  Mr.  A.  B. 
I  hereby  give  you  notice  to  deliver 
up  possession  and  quit,  on  or  before 
next  Michaelmas  day,  the  house  and 
premises  which  you  now  hold  of  me, 
situate  in  the  parish  of  in  the 

county  of  :  and  in  default  of 

your  compliance  therewith,  I  do  and 
will  insist  on  your  paying  me  for  the 
same,  the  yearly  rent  of 
being  double  the  annual  rent,  for 
such  time  as  you  shall  detain  the  key, 
and  keep  possession,  over  the  said 
notice.  Witness  my  hand  this 
day  of  182  .         C.  D.  Land- 

lord of  the  said  premises. 

Witness  E.  F.'— 
If,  after  not'ce  of  double  rent  be  ex- 


pired, a  single  rent  is  accepted,  such 
acceptance  will  prevent  the  penalty, 
until  notice  is  again  given,  and  the 
time  expired. 

DOWN.  This  valuable  part  of 
goose  coating,  which  contributes  so 
much  to  the  comfort  and  even  the 
luxury  of  life,  comes  to  maturity  when 
it  begins  to  fall  off  of  itself;  and  if 
removed  too  soon,  it  is  liable  to  be 
attacked  by  worms.  Lean  geese  fur- 
nish more  than  those  that  are  fat,  and 
the  down  is  more  valuable.  Neither 
the  feathers  nor  the  down  of  geese 
which  have  been  dead  some  time  are 
fit  for  use :  they  generally  smell  bad, 
and  become  matted.  None  but  what 
is  plucked  from  living  geese,  or  which 
have  just  been  killed,  ought  to  be 
exhibited  for  sale ;  and  in  this  case 
the  down  should  be  plucked  soon, 
or  before  the  geese  are  entirely  cold. 
DRAUGHT  FOR  A  COUGH. 
Beat  a  fresh-laid  egg,  and  mix  it 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  new  milk 
warmed,  but  do  not  heat  it  after  the 
egg  is  put  in.  Add  a  large  spoonful 
of  capillaire,  the  same  of  rose  water, 
and  a  little  nutmeg  scraped.  Take 
it  the  first  and  last  thing,  and  it  will 
be  found  a  fine  soft  draught  for  those 
who  are  weakly,  or  have  a  cold. — 
Another  remedy.  Take  a  handful 
of  horehound,  a  handful  of  rue,  a 
handful  of  hyssop,  and  the  same 
quantity  of  ground  ivy  and  of  tor- 
mentil,  with  a  small  quantity  of  long 
plantain,  pennyroyal,  and  five  fin- 
ger. Boil  them  in  four  quarts  of 
water  till  reduced  to  two  quarts. 
Strain  it  off,  then  add  two  pounds 
of  loaf  sugar ;  simmer  it  a  little,  add 
a  quart  of  brandy  and  bottle  it  for 
use.  A  wine  glassful  of  this  to  be 
taken  occasionally. 

DRIED  BACON.  When  two 
flitches  are  to  be  cured,  divide  the 
hog,  cut  off  the  hams,  and  take  out 
the  chine.  It  is  common  to  remove 
the  spare-ribs,  but  the  bacon  will  be 
preserved  better  from  being  rusty,  if 
they  are  left  in.  Salt  the  bacon  six 
days,  then  drain  it  from  that  first 
109 


DR 


DRi 


pickle :  mix  a  proper  quantity  of  salt 
with  half  a  pound  of  bay-salt,  three 
ounces  of  saltpetre,  and  a  pound  of 
coarse  sugar,  to  each  hog.  Rub  the 
salts  well  in,  and  turn  it  every  day 
for  a  month.  Drain  and  smoke  it 
for  a  few  days,  or  dry  it  with  bran 
or  flour,  and  hang  it  in  the  kitchen, 
or  on  a  rack  suspended  from  the 
ceiling. — Good  bacon  may  be  known, 
if  you  are  going  to  purchase  it,  by 
the  rind  being  thin,  the  fat  firm,  and 
of  a  red  tinge,  the  lean  tender,  of  a 
good  colour,  and  adhering  to  the 
bone.  If  there  are  yellow  streaks  in 
it,  it  is  going,  if  not  already  rusty. 

DRIED  CHERRIES.  Stone  six 
pounds  of  Kentish  cherries,  and  put 
them  into  a  preserving  pan  with  two 
pounds  of  loaf  sugar  pounded  and 
strewed  among  them.  Simmer  them 
till  they  begin  to  shrivel,  then  strain 
them  from  the  juice,  iay  them  on  a 
hot  hearth  or  in  an  oven,  when  either 
is  cool  enough  to  dry  without  baking 
them.  The  same  syrup  will  do 
another  six  pounds  of  fruit. — To  dry 
cherries  without  sugar,  stone,  and 
set  them  over  the  fire  in  a  preserving 
pan.  Simmer  them  in  their  own  li- 
quor, and  shake  them  in  the  pan. 
Put  them  by  in  common  china  dish- 
es: next  day  give  them  another  scald, 
and  when  cold  put  them  on  sieves  to 
dry,  in  an  oven  moderately  warm. 
Twice  heating,  an  hour  each  time, 
*•  will  be  sufficient.  Place  them  in  a 
box,  with  a  paper  between  each  lay- 
er.— A  superior  way  of  preserving 
cherries  is  to  allow  one  pound  of 
double-refined  sugar  to  every  five 
pounds  of  fruit,  after  they  are 
stoned ;  then  to  put  both  into  a  pre- 
serving pan  with  very  little  water, 
till  they  are  scalding  hot.  Take  the 
fruit  out  immediately  and  dry  them ; 
return  them  into  the  pan  again, 
strewing  the  sugar  between  each  lay- 
er of  cherries.  Let  it  stand  to  melt, 
then  set  the  pan  on  the  fire,  and  make 
it  scalding  hot  as  before  ;  take  it  off, 
and  repeat  this  thrice  with  the  sugar. 
Drain  them  from  the  svrup?  and  lav 
110 


them  singly  to  dry  on  dishes,  in  the 
sun  or  on  a  stove.  When  dry,  pu.t 
them  into  a  sieve,  dip  it  into  a  pan 
of  cold  water,  and  draw  it  instantly 
out  again,  and  pour  them  on  a  fine 
soft  cloth  ;  dry  them,  and  set  them 
once  more  in  the  sun,  or  on  a  stove. 
Keep  them  in  a  box,  with  layers  of 
white  paper,  in  a  dry  place.  This  is 
the  best  way  to  give  plumpness  to 
the  fruit,  as  well  as  colour  and  fla- 
vour. 

DRIED  HADDOCK.  Choose 
them  of  two  or  three  pounds  weight ; 
take  out  the  gills,  eyes,  and  entrails, 
and  remove  the  blood  from  the  back- 
bone. Wipe  them  dry,  and  put  some 
salt  into  the  bodies  and  sockets.  Lay 
them  on  a  board  for  a  night,  then 
hang  them  up  in  a  dry  place,  and 
after  three  or  four  days  they  will  be 
fit  to  eat.  Skin  and  rub  them  with 
egg,  and  strew  crumbs  over  them. 
Lay  them  before  the  fire,  baste  with 
butter  till  they  are  quite  brown,  and 
serve  with  egg  sauce. — Whitings,  if 
large,  are' excellent  in  this  way  ;  and 
where  there  is  no  regular  supply  of 
fish,  it  will  be  found  a  great  conve- 
nience. 

DRIED  SALMON.  Cut  the  fish 
down,  take  out  the  inside  and  roe. 
After  scaling  it,  rub  it  with  common 
salt,  and  let  it  hang  twenty-four 
hours  to  drain.  Pound  three  or  four 
ounces  of  saltpetre,  according  to  the 
size  of  the  fish,  two  ounces  of  bay 
salt,  and  two  ounces  of  coarse  sugar. 
Mix  them  well,  rub  it  into  the  sal- 
mon, and  lay  it  on  a  large  dish  for 
two  days  ;  then  rub  it  with  common 
salt,  wipe  it  well  after  draining,  and 
in  twenty-four  hours  more  it  will  be 
fit  to  dry.  Hang  it  either  in  a  wood 
chimney,  or  in  a  dry  place,  keeping 
it  open  with  two  small  sticks. — Dri- 
ed salmon  is  broiled  in  paper,  and 
only  just  warmed  through.  Egg 
sauce  and  mashed  potatoes  may  be 
eaten  with  it ;  or  it  may  be  boiled, 
especially  the  part  next  the  head. 
An  excellent  dish  of  dried  salmon 
may  also  be  made  in  the  follovving 


DRO 


DRO 


manner.  Prepare  some  eggs  boiled 
hard  and  chopped  large,  pull  off 
some  flakes  of  the  fish,  and  put  them 
both  into  half  a  pint  of  thin  cream, 
with  two  or  three  ounces  of  butter 
rubbed  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour. 
Skim  and  stir  it  till  boiling  hot,  make 
a  wall  of  mashed  potatoes  round  the 
inner  edge  of  a  dish,  and  pour  the 
above  into  it. 

DRINK  FOR  THE  SICK.  Pour 
a  table-spoonful  of  capillaire,  and 
the  same  of  good  vinegar,  into  a  tum- 
bler of  fresh  cold  water.  Tamarinds, 
currants,  fresh  or  in  jelly,  scalded 
currants  or  cranberries,  make  excel- 
lent drinks ;  with  a  little  sugar  or 
not,  as  most  agreeable.  Or  put  a 
tea-cupful  of  cranberries  into  a  cup 
of  water,  and  mash  them.  In  the 
meantime  boil  two  quarts  of  water 
with  one  large  spoonful  ef  oatmeal, 
and  a  bit  of  lemon  peel ;  then  add 
the  cranberries,  and  as  much  fine 
Lisbon  sugar  as  shall  leave  a  smart 
flavour  of  the  fruit.  Add  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  sherry,  or  less,  as  may 
be  proper :  boil  all  together  for  half 
an  hour,  and  strain  off  the  drink. 

DRIPPING,  if  carefully  preserv- 
ed, will  baste  every  thing  as  well  as 
butter,  except  fowls  and  game  ;  and 
for  kitchen  pies  nothing  else  should 
be  used.  The  fat  of  a  neck  or  loin 
of  mutton  makes  a  far  lighter  pud- 
ding than  suet. 

DRIPPING  CRUST.  Rub  a 
pound  of  clarified  dripping  iato  three 
pounds  of  fine  flour,  and  mak^it  into 
a  paste  with  cold  water.  Or  make 
a  hot  crust  with  the  same  quantity, 
by  melting  the  dripping  in  water, 
and  mixing  it  hot  with  the  flour. 

DROP  CAKES.  Rub  half  a  pound 
of  butter  into  a  pound  of  fine  flour ; 
mix  it  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
and  the  same  of  currants.  Mix  it 
into  a  paste,  with  two  eggs,  a  large 
spoonful  oi'  rose  water,  brandy,  and 
sweet  wine  ;  and  put  it  on  plates 
ready  floured. 

DROPSY.  Gentle  exercise  and 
rubbing  the  parts  aff'ected,  are  high- 


ly proper  in  this  complaint,  and  the 
tepid  bath  has  often  procured  con- 
siderable relief.  The  patient  ought 
to  live  in  a  warm  dry  place,  not  ex- 
pose himself  to  cold  or  damp  air, 
and  wear  flannel  next  the  skin.  Ve- 
getable acids,  such  as  vinegar,  the 
juice  of  lemons  and  oranges,  diluted 
with  water,  should  be  drank  in  pre- 
ference to  wine  or  spirits,  either  of 
which  are  generally  hurtful.  The 
diet  should  be  light  and  nourishing, 
easy  of  digestion,  and  taken  in  mo- 
deration. Horseradish,  onions  and 
garlic,  may  be  used  instead  of  fo- 
reign spices  ;  but  tea,  coffee,  and 
punch,  are  alike  improper. 

DROWNING.  If  a  person  un- 
fortunately fall  into  the  water,  and 
is  supposed  to  be  drowned,  he  should 
be  carefully  undressed  as  soon  as  he 
is  taken  out ;  then  laid  on  a  bed  or 
mattrass  in  a  warm  apartment,  with 
the  head  and  upper  part  a  little  rais- 
ed, and  the  nostrils  cleaned  with  a 
feather  dipped  in  oil.  Let  the  body 
be  gently  rubbed  with  common  salt, 
or  with  flannels  dipped  in  spirits ; 
the  pit  of  the  stomach  fomented  with 
hot  brandy,  the  temples  stimulated 
with  spirits  of  hartshorn,  and  blad- 
ders of  lukewarm  water  applied  to 
different  parts  of  the  body,  or  a 
warming-pan  wrapped  in  flannel 
gently  moved  along  the  back.  A 
warm  bath,  gradually  increased  to 
seventy-five  degrees,  would  be  high- 
ly proper  ;  or  the  body  may  be  car- 
ried to  a  brewhouse,  and  covered  up 
with  warm  grains  for  an  hour  or  two. 
An  attempt  should  be  made  to  inflate 
the  lungs,  either  by  the  help  of  a  pair 
of  bellows,  or  a  person's  blowing 
with  his  mouth  through  the  nostril, 
which  in  the  first  instance  is  much 
better.  If  the  patient  be  very  young, 
or^the  animation  do  not  appear  al- 
together suspended,  he  may  be  plac- 
ed in  bed  between  two  persons  to 
promote  natural  warmth,  or  covered 
with  blankets  or  warm  flannels.  Sti- 
mulating clysters  of  warm  water  and 
salt,  or  six  ounces  of  brandy,  should 


DUG 


DUN 


be  speedily  administered.  The  means 
should  be  persevered  in  for  several 
hours,  as  there  are  instances  of  per- 
sons recovering  after  all  hope  was 
given  up,  and  they  had  been  aban- 
doned by  their  attendants.  As  soon 
as  the  first  symptoms  of  life  are  dis- 
cernible, care  must  be  taken  to  che- 
rish the  vital  action  by  the  most 
gentle  and  soothing  means.  Fomen- 
tations of  aromatic  plants  may  then 
be  applied  to  the  pit  of  the  stomach, 
bladders  of  warm  water  placed  to 
the  left  side,  the  soles  of  the  feet 
rubbed  with  salt,  and  a  little  white 
wine  dropped  on  the  tongue.  The 
patient  should  then  be  left  in  a  quiet 
state  till  able  to  drink  a  little  warm 
wine,  or  tea  mixed  with  a  few  drops 
of  vinegar.  The  absurd  practice  of 
rolling  persons  on  casks,  lifting  the 
feet  over  the  shoulders,  and  suft'er- 
mg  the  head  to  remain  downwards, 
in  order  to  discharge  the  water,  has 
occasioned  the  loss  of  many  lives, 
as  it  is  now  fully  and  clearly  estab- 
lished, that  the  respiration  being 
impeded  is  in  this  case  the  sole  cause 
of  the  suspension  of  life ;  and  which 
being  restored,  the  vital  functions 
soon  recover  their  tone.  No  attempt 
must  be  made  to  introduce  liquor  of 
any  kind  into  the  mouth,  till  there 
are  strong  signs  of  recovery. 

DUCKS.  In  rearing  this  species 
of  pouftry,  they  should  be  accustom- 
ed to  feed  and  rest  in  one  place,  to 
prevent  their  straggling  too  far  to 
lay.  Places  near  the  water  to  lay 
in  are  advantageous,  and  these  might 
consist  of  small  wooden  houses,  with 
a  partitjoii  in  the  middle,  and  a  door 
at  each  end.  They  generally  begin 
to  lay  in  the  month  of  February. 
Their  eggs  should  be  daily  taken 
away  except  one,  till  they  seem  in- 
clined to  set,  and  then  they  should 
be  left  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
eggs  under  them.  They  require  no 
attention  while  setting,  except  to  give 
them  food  at  the  time  they  come  out 
to  seek  it  ;  and  water  should  be 
placed  at  a  convenient  distance,  that 
112 


their  eggs  may  not  be  spoiled  by 
their  long  absence  in  seeking  it. 
Twelve  or  thirteen  eggs  will  be  suf- 
ficient. In  an  early  season  it  is  best 
to  place  them  under  a  hen,  that  the 
ducks  may  have  less  time  for  setting, 
for  in  cold  weather  they  cannot  so 
well  be  kept  from  the  water,  and 
would  scarcely  have  strength  to  bear 
it.  They  should  be  placed  under 
cover,  especially  in  a  wet  season  ; 
for  though  water  is  the  natural  ele- 
ment of  ducks,  yet  they  are  apt  to 
be  killed  by  the  cramp  before  they 
are  covered  with  feathers  to  defend 
them.  Ducks  will  eat  any  thing  ; 
and  when  to  be  fatted,  they  should 
have  plenty  of  food,  however  coarse 
it  may  be,  and  in  three  weeks  they 
will  be  ready. 

DUCK  PIE.  Bone  a  full-grown 
young  duck  and  a  fowl.  Wash  and 
season  them  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  a  small  proportion  of  mace  and 
allspice  in  the  finest  powder.  Put 
the  fowl  within  the  duck,  and  in  the 
former  a  calf's  tongue,  boiled  very 
tender  and  peeled.  Press  the  whole 
close,  and  draw  the  legs  inwards, 
that  the  body  of  the  fowl  may  be 
quite  smooth.  The  space  between 
the  sides  of  the  crust  may  be  filled 
with  fine  forcemeat,  the  same  as  for 
savoury  pies.  Bake  it  in  a  slow 
oven,  either  in  a  raised  crust  or  pie 
dish,  with  a  thick  ornamented  crust. 
Large  Staffordshire  pies  are  made 
as  above,  but  with  a  goose  outwards, 
then  a  turkey,  a  duck  next,  then  a 
fowl;  and  either  tongue, small  birds, 
or  forcemeat  in  the  middle. 

DUCK  SAUCE.  Put  a  rich  gravy 
into  the  dish,  and  slice  the  breast. 
Cut  a  lemon,  put  on  it  some  pepper 
and  salt,  squeeze  it  on  the  breast, 
and  pour  a  spoonful  of  gravy  over 
the  meat,  before  it  is  sent  round. — 
See  Roast  Duck. 

DUN  BIRDS.  Roast  and  baste 
them  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  a  little 
salt  before  they  are  taken  up.  Pour 
a  good  gravy  over  them,  and  serve 
with  shalot  sauce  in  a  boat. 


DUT 


DYE 


DUNELM  OF  VEAL.  Stew  a 
few  small  mushrooms  in  their  own 
liquor  and  a  bit  of  butter,  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.  Mince  them  fine,  and 
put  them  with  their  liquor  to  some 
cold  minced  veal.  Add  a  little  pep- 
per and  salt,  some  cream,  and  a  bit  of 
butter  rubbed  in  less  than  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour.  Simmer  the  mince 
three  or  four  minutes,  and  serve  it 
on  thin  sippets  of  bread.  Cold  fowl 
may  be  treated  in  the  same  manner. 

DUTCH  BEEF.  Take  a  lean 
piece  of  beef,  rub  it  well  with  treacle 
or  brown  sugar,  and  let  it  be  turned 
often.  In  three  days  wipe  it,  and 
salt  it  with  common  salt  and  salt- 
petre beaten  fine  :  rub  these  well  in, 
and  turn  it  every  day  for  a  fortnight. 
Roll  it  tight  in  a  coarse  cloth,  and 
press  it  under  a  large  weight :  hang 
it  to  dry  in  a  wood  smoke,  but  turn 
it  upside  down  every  day.  Boil  it 
in  pump  water,  and  press  it :  it  will 
then  grate  or  cut  into  shivers,  like 
Dutch  beef. 

DUTCH  FLUMMERY.  Boil  two 
ounces  of  isinglass  in  a  pint  and  half 
of  water  very  gently  half  an  hour  ; 
add  a  pint  of  white  wine,  the  juice 
of  three  lemons,  and  the  thin  rind  of 
one.  Rub  a  few  lumps  of  sugar  on 
another  lemon  to  obtain  the  essence, 
and  add  with  them  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  sugar  to  sweeten.  Beat  up 
the  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  mix  it  with 
the  above,  and  give  them  together 
one  scald.  Keep  the  flummery  stir- 
ring all  the  time,  pour  it  into  a  ba- 
son, stir  it  till  half  cold,  let  it  settle, 
and  then  put  it  into  a  melon  shape. 

DUTCH  PUDDING.  Melt  a 
pound  of  butter  in  half  a  pint  of 
milk ;  mix  it  into  two  pounds  of  flour, 
eight  eggs,  and  four  spoonfuls  of 
yeast.  Add  a  pound  of  currants, 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
beaten  and  sifted,  and  bake  it  an 
hour  in  a  quick  oven.  This  is  a 
very  good  pudding  hot,  and  equally 
so  as  a  cake  when  cold.  If  for  the 
latter,  carraways  must  be  used  in- 
stead of  currants. 


DUTCH  RICE  PUDDING.  Soak 
four  ounces  of  rice  in  warm  water 
half  an  hour ;  drain  away  the  water, 
put  the  rice  into  a  stewpan,  with 
half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  half  a  stick 
of  cinnamon,  and  simmer  it  till  ten- 
der. When  cold,  add  four  eggs  well 
beaten,  two  ounces  of  butter  melted 
in  a  tea-cupful  of  cream  ;  and  add 
three  ounces  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of 
a  nutmeg,  and  a  good  piece  of  le- 
mon peel.  Put  a  light  pufl^paste  into 
a  mould  or  dish,  or  grated  tops  and 
bottoms,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

DUTCH  WAFFLES.  These  form 
a  delicious  article  in  the  shape  of 
puff  cakes,  which  are  instantly  pre- 
pared and  exhibited  for  sale  in  stalls 
or  tents,  in  the  fairs  of  Holland, 
where  they  are  eaten  hot  as  they 
come  from  the  plate  or  baking  pan, 
with  fine  sugar  strewed  over  them. 
Mix  together  three  pounds  of  fine 
flour,  a  dozen  eggs,  a  pound  of  melt- 
ed butter,  half  a  pint  of  ale,  some 
milk,  and  a  little  yeast.  £eat  it 
well,  till  it  forms  a  thick  paste,  and 
let  it  stand  three  or  four  hours  be- 
fore the  fire  to  rise.  Lay  it  in  small 
pieces  on  a  hot  iron  or  fryingpan, 
with  a  pair  of  buttered  tongs,  till 
it  is  lightly  browned.  Eat  the  waf- 
fles with  fine  sugar  sifted  over,  or  a 
little  sack  and  melted  butter. 

DYEING.  Nankeen  dye  is  made 
of  equal  parts  of  arnetto  and  com- 
mon potash,  dissolved  in  boiling  wa- 
ter. To  dye  cotton,  silk,  woollen, 
or  linen  of  a  beautiful  yellow,  the 
plant  called  weld,  or  dyer's  weed, 
is  used  for  that  purpose.  Blue  cloths 
dipped  in  a  decoction  of  it  will  be- 
come green.  The  yellow  colour  of 
the  Dutch  pink  is  obtained  from  the 
juice  of  the  stones  and  branches  of 
the  weld.  Black  dye  is  obtained 
from  a  strong  decoction  of  logwood, 
copperas,  and  gum  arable.  Oak 
saw-dust,  or  the  excrescences  on  the 
roots  of  young  oaks,  may  be  used 
as  a  substitute  for  galls,  both  in 
making  ink  and  black  dye. 

Q  118 


t:  A  u 


T.  (x  G 


E. 


Earthenware.    An  ounce  of 

dry  lean  cheese  grated  fine,  and  an 
equal  quantity  of  quicklime  mixed 
well  together  in  three  ounces  of  skim 
milk,  will  form  a  good  cement  for 
any  articles  of  broken  earthenware, 
when  the  rendering  of  the  joint  visi- 
ble is  reckoned  of  no  consequence. 
A  cement  of  the  same  nature  may  be 
made  of  quicklime  tempered  with 
the  curd  of  milk,  but  the  curd  should 
either  be  made  of  whey  or  butter- 
milk. This  cement,  like  the  former, 
requires  to  be  applied  immediately 
after  it  is  made,  and  it  will  effectu- 
ally join  any  kind  of  earthenware  or 
china. 

EARWIGS.  These  insects  are 
often  destructive  in  gardens,  especi- 
ally where  carnations,  nuts,  or  fil- 
berts, pears  and  apples  are  reared. 
Their  depredations  on  the  flowers 
may  be  prevented  by  putting  the 
bowl  of  a  tobacco-pipe  on  the  sticks 
which  support  them,  into  which  they 
will  creep  in  the  day  time,  and  may 
be  destroyed.  Green  leaves  of  elder 
laid  near  fruit  trees,  or  flower  roots, 
will  prevent  their  approach.  Large 
quantities  may  be  taken  by  placing 
short  cuts  of  reed,  bean  or  wheat 
straw,  among  the  branches  of  fruit 
trees,  and  laying  some  on  the  ground 
near  the  root.  Having  committed 
their  depredations  in  the  night,  they 
take  refuge  in  these  in  the  day  time ; 
the  reed  or  straw  may  be  taken  away 
and  burnt,  and  more  put  in  its  stead. 
— If  unfortunately  one  of  these  dis- 
agreeable insects  have  crept  into  the 
ear,  from  their  running  so  frequently 
about  our  garments,  let  the  afflicted 
person  lay  his  head  upon  a  table, 
while  some  friend  carefully  drop  into 
the  ear  a  little  sweet  oil,  or  oil  of 
almonds.  A  drop  or  two  will  be 
sufficient  to  destroy  the  insect,  and 
remove  the  pain.  An  earwig  may 
be  extracted  by  applying  a  piece  of 
apple  to  the  ear,  which  will  entice 
the  insect  to  come  out. 
114 


EDGEBONE  OF  BEEF.  Skewer 
it  up  tight,  and  tie  a  broad  fillet 
round  it,  to  keep  the  skewers  in  their 
places.  Put  it  in  with  plenty  of  cold 
water,  and  carefully  catch  the  scum 
as  it  rises.  When  all  the  scum  is 
removed,  place  the  boiler  on  one 
side  of  the  fire,  to  keep  simmering 
slowly  till  it  is  done.  A  piece  weigh- 
ing ten  pounds  will  take  two  hours, 
and  larger  in  proportion.  The  slower 
it  boils  the  better  it  will  look,  and 
the  tenderer  it  will  be  :  if  allowed  to 
boil  quick  at  first,  no  art  can  make 
it  tender  afterwards.  Dress  plenty 
of  carrots,  as  cold  carrots  are  a  ge- 
neral favourite  with  cold  beef. 

EEL  BROTH.  Clean  half  a  pound 
of  small  eels,  and  set  them  on  the 
fire  with  three  pints  of  water,  some 
parsley,  a  slice  of  onion,  and  a  few 
peppercorns.  Let  them  simmer  till 
the  eels  are  broken,  and  the  broth 
good.  Add  salt,  and  strain  it  off. 
The  above  should  make  three  half 
pints  of  broth,  nourishing  and  good 
for  weakly  persons. 

EEL  PIE.  Cut  the  eels  in  length* 
of  two  or  three  inches,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  place  them  in 
a  dish  with  some  bits  of  butter,  and 
a  little  water.  Cover  the  dish  with 
a  paste,  and  bake  it. 

EEL  SOUP.  Put  three  pounds 
of  small  eels  to  two  quarts  of  water, 
a  crust  of  bread,  three  blades  of 
mace,  some  whole  pepper,  an  onion, 
and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Cover 
them  close,  stew  till  the  fish  is  quite 
broken,  and  then  strain  it  oft'.  Toast 
some  bread,  cut  it  into  dice,  and 
pour  the  soup  on  it  boiling  hot. 
Part  of  a  carrot  may  be  put  in  at 
first.  This  soup  will  be  as  rich  as 
if  made  of  meat.  A  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  rich  cream,  with  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  it,  is 
a  great  improvement. 

EGGS.  In  new-laid  eggs  there 
is  a  small  division  of  the  skin  at  the 
end  of  the  shell,  which  is  filled  with 


EGG 


EGG 


air,  and  is  perceptible  to  the  eye. 
On  looking  through  them  against  the 
sun  or  a  candle,  they  will  be  tolera- 
bly clear;  but  if  they  shake  in  the 
shell,  they  are  not  fresh.  Another 
way  to  distinguish  fresh  eggs,  is  to 
put  the  large  end  to  the  tongue  ;  if 
it  feels  warm,  it  is  new  and  good. 
Eggs  may  be  bought  cheapest  in  the 
spring,  when  the  hens  first  begin  to 
lay,  before  they  set :  in  Lent  and  at 
Easter  they  become  dear.  They  may 
be  preserved  fresh  for.  some  time  by 
dipping  them  in  boiling  water,  and 
instantly  taking  them  out,  or  by  oil- 
ing the  shell,  either  of  whrch  will 
prevent  the  air  from  passing  through. 
They  may  also  be  kept  on  shelves 
with  small  holes  to  receive  one  in 
each,  and  be  turned  every  other  day ; 
or  close  packed  in  a  keg,  and  cover- 
ed with  strong  lime  water.  A  still 
better  way  of  preserving  eggs  in  a 
fresh  state  is  to  dip  them  in  a  solu- 
tion of  gum-arabic  in  water,  and 
then  imbed  them  in  powdered  char- 
coal. The  gum-arabic  answers  the 
purpose  of  a  varnish  for  the  eggs, 
much  better  than  any  resinous  gum, 
as  it  can  easily  be  removed  by  wash- 
ing them  in  water,  and  is  a  much 
cheaper  preparation  than  any  other. 
If  eggs  are  greased  the  oily  matter 
becomes  rancid,  and  infallibly  hast- 
ens the  putrefaction  of  the  eggs. 
But  being  varnished  with  gum  wa- 
ter, and  imbedded  in  charcoal,  they 
will  keep  for  many  years,  and  may 
be  removed  from  one  climate  to  an- 
other. 

EGGS  AND  BACON.  Lay  some 
slices  of  fine  streaked  bacon  in  a 
clean  dish,  and  toast  them  before  the 
fire  in  a  cheese-toaster,  turning  them 
when  the  upper  side  is  browned  ;  or 
if  it  be  wished  to  have  them  mellow 
and  soft,  rather  than  curled  and  crisp, 
parboil  the  slices  before  they  are 
toasted  and  do  them  lightly.  Clear 
dripping  or  lard  is  to  be  preferred 
to  butter  for  frying  the  eggs,  and  be 
sure  that  the  fryingpan  is  quite  clean 
before  it  is  put  in.     When  the  fat  is 


hot,  break  two  or  three  eggs  into  it. 
Do  not  turn  them  ;  but  while  they 
are  frying,  keep  pouring  some  of  the 
fat  over  them  with  a  spoon.  When 
the  yolk  just  begins  to  look  white, 
which  it  will  in  about  two  minutes, 
they  are  enough,  and  the  white  must 
not  be  suffered  to  lose  its  transpa- 
rency. Take  up  the  eggs  with  a 
tin  sHce,  drain  the  fat  from  them, 
trim  them  neatly,  and  send  them  up 
with  the  bacon  round  them. 

EGGS  AND  ONIONS.  Boil  some 
eggs  hard,  take  out  the  yolks  whole, 
and  cut  the  whites  in  slices.  Fry 
some  onions  and  mushrooms,  put  in 
the  whites,  and  keep  them  turning. 
Pour  off  the  fat,  flour  the  onions, 
and  add  a  little  gravy.  Boil  them 
up,  then  put  in  the  yolks,  with  a  lit- 
tle pepper  and  salt.  Simmer  the 
whole  about  a  minute,  and  serve  it 
up. 

EGGS  FOR  SALLAD.  Boil  a 
couple  of  eggs  for  twelve  minutes, 
and  put  them  into  a  bason  of  cold 
water,  to  render  the  yolks  firm  and 
hard.  Rub  them  through  a  sieve  lia; 
with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  mix  them 
with  a  spoonful  of  water,  or  fine 
double  cream,  and  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  oil  or  melted  butter. 
When  these  are  well  mixed,  add 
by  degrees  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
or  powdered  lump  sugar,  and  the 
same  of  made  mustard.  Add  very 
gradually  three  table-spoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  rub  it  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients till  thoroughly  incorporated, 
and  cut  up  the  white  of  the  e^g  to 
garnish  the  top  of  the  sallad.  Let 
the  sauce  remain  at  the  bottom  of 
the  bowl,  and  do  not  stir  up  the  sal- 
lad  till  it  is  to  be  eaten.  This  sauce 
is  equally  good  with  cold  meat,  cold 
fish,  or  for  cucumbers,  celery,  and 
radishes. 

EGGS  FOR  THE  SICK.  Eggs 
very  little  boiled  or  poached,  when 
taken  in  small  quantities,  convey 
much  nourishment.  The  yolk  only, 
when  dressed,  should  be  eaten  by 
invalids.  An  egg  divided,  and  the 
116 


EGG 


ELD 


yolk  and  white  beaten  separately, 
then  mixed  with  a  glass  of  wine,  will 
afford  two  very  wholesome  draughts, 
and  prove  lighter  than  when  taken 
together.  An  egg  broken  into  a  cup 
of  tea,  or  beaten  and  mixed  with  a 
bason  of  milk,  makes  a  breakfast 
more  supporting  than  tea  only. 

EGGS  FOR  TURTLE.  Beat  in 
a  mortar  three  yolks  of  eggs  that 
have  been  boiled  hard.  Make  it  into 
a  paste  with  the  yolk  of  a  raw  one, 
roll  it  into  small  balls,  and  throw 
them  into  boiling  water  for  two  mi- 
nutes to  harden. 

EGG  BALLS.  Boil  the  eggs  hard, 
and  put  them  in  cold  water.  Take 
out  the  yolks,  and  pound  them  fine 
in  a  mortar,  wetting  them  with  raw 
yolks,  about  one  to  three.  Season 
them  with  salt  and  white  pepper, 
dry  them  with  flour,  and  roll  them 
into  small  balls,  as  they  swell  very 
much  in  boiling.  When  dressed, 
boil  them  in  gravy  for  a  minute. 

EGG  PIE.  Boil  twelve  eggs  hard, 
and  chop  them  with  one  pound  of 
marrow,  or  beef  suet.  Season  with 
a  little  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  finely 
beaten,  adding  one  pound  of  currants 
clean  washed  and  picked,  two  or 
three  spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  little 
sweet  wine,  and  rose  water.  Mix 
all  together,  and  fill  the  pie  :  when 
it  is  baked,  stir  in  half  a  pound  of 
fresh  butter,  and  the  juice  of  a  le- 
mon. 

EGG  MINCE  PIES.  Boil  six 
eggs  hard,  shred  them  small,  and 
double  the  quantity  of  shred  suet. 
Then  add  a  pound  of  currants  wash- 
ed and  picked,  or  more  if  the  eggs 
were  large  ;  the  peel  of  one  lemon 
shred  very  fine,  and  the  juice ;  six 
spoonfuls  of  sweet  wine,  mace,  nut- 
meg, sugar,  a  very  little  salt ;  orange, 
lemon,  and  citron,  candied.  Cover 
the  pies  with  a  light  paste.      ' 

EGG  SAUCE.  Boil  the  eggs 
hard,  chop  them  fine,  and  put  them 
into  melted  butter.  If  thrown  into 
cold  water  after  being  boiled,  the 
yolks  will  become  firmer,  will  be 
M6 


easier  to  cut,  and  the  surface  be  pre- 
vented from  turning  black.  Egg 
sauce  will  be  found  an  agreeable  ac- 
companiment to  roast  fowl,  or  salt 
fish. 

EGG  WINE.  Beat  up  an  egg, 
and  mix  it  with  a  spoonful  of  cold 
water.  Set  on  the  fire  a  glass  of 
white  w^ine,  half  a  glass  of  water, 
with  sugar  and  nutmeg.  When  it 
boils,  pour  a  little  of  it  to  the  egg 
by  degrees,  till  the  whole  is  mixed, 
and  stir  it  well.  Then  return  the 
whole  into  the  saucepan,  put  it  on  a 
gentle  fire,  stir  it  one  way  for  about 
a  minute.  If  it  boil,  or  the  egg  be 
stale,  it  will  curdle.  The  wine  may 
be  made  without  warming  the  egg  ; 
it  is  then  lighter  on  the  stomach, 
though  not  so  pleasant  to  the  taste. 
Serve  it  with  toast. 

ELDER.  The  foetid  smell  of  the 
common  elder  is  such,  especially  of 
the  dwarf  elder,  that  if  the  leaves 
and  branches  be  strewed  among 
cabbage  and  cauliflower  plants,  or 
turnips,  it  will  secure  them  from  the 
ravages  of  flies  and  caterpillars ; 
and  if  hung  on  the  branches  of  trees, 
it  will  protect  them  from  the  effects 
of  blight.  Or  if  put  into  the  sub- 
terraneous paths  of  the  moles,  it 
will  drive  them  from  the  garden.  An 
infusion  of  the  leaves  in  water,  and 
sprinkled  over  rose-buds  and  other 
flowers,  will  preserve  them  from  the 
depredations  of  the  caterpillar. 

ELDER  ROB.  Clear  some  ripe 
elder-berries  from  the  staFks,  bake 
them  in  covered  jars  for  two  hours, 
and  squeeze  the  juice  through  a 
strainer.  To  four  quarts  of  juice 
put  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  stir  it 
over  the  fire  till  reduced  to  one 
quart.  When  cold,  tie  it  down  with 
a  bladder,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry 
place.  It  is  very  good  for  sore 
throats  and  fevers. 

ELDER  SYRUP.  Pick  off  the 
elder  berries  when  fully  ripe,  bake 
them  in  a  stone  jar,  strain  them 
through  a  coarse  sieve,  and  put  the 
juice  into  a  clean  kettle.     To  every 


ELD 


ENG 


quart  of  juice  add  a  pound  of  fine 
soft  sugar,  boil  and  skim  it  well : 
when  it  is  clear,  pour  it  into  a  jar, 
cool  it,  and  cover  it  down.  Half  a 
pint  of  this  syrup  added  to  a  gallon 
of  new  made  wine,  will  give  it  a  very 
rich  flavour,  or  it  may  be  used  for 
other  purposes. 

ELDER  WINE.  Pick  the  berries 
from  the  stalk,  and  to  every  quart 
allow  two  quarts  of  water.  Boil 
them  half  an  hour,  run  the  liquor 
and  break  the  fruit  through  a  hair 
sieve,  and  to  every  quart  of  juice  put 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  moist 
sugar.  Boil  the  whole  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  with  some  peppercorns, 
ginger,  and  a  few  cloves.  Pour  it 
into  a  tub,  and  when  of  a  proper 
warmth,  into  the  barrel,  with  toast 
and  yeast  to  work,  which  there  is 
more  difficulty  to  make  it  do  than 
most  other  liquors.  When  it  ceases 
to  hiss,  put  a  quart  of  brandy  to 
eight  gallons,  and  stop  it  up.  Bot- 
tle it  in  the  spring,  or  at  Christmas. 
— To  make  white  elder  wine,  very 
much  like  Frontiniac,  boil  eighteen 
pounds  of  white  powder  sugar  with 
six  gallons  of  water,  and  two  whites 
of  eggs  well  beaten.  Skim  it  clean, 
and  but  in  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of 
elder  flowers  from  the  tree  that  bears 
white  berries,  but  do  not  keep  them 
on  the  fire.  Stir  it  when  nearly  cold, 
and  put  in  six  spoonfuls  of  lemon 
juice,  four  or  five  spoonfuls  of  yeast, 
and  beat  it  well  into  the  liquor.  Stir 
it  every  day,  put  into  the  cask  six 
pounds  of  the  best  raisins  stoned, 
and  tun  the  wine.  Stop  it  close, 
and  bottle  it  in  six  months.  When 
well  kept,  this  wine  will  pass  for 
Frontiniac. 

ELDER  FLOWER  WINE.  To 
six  gallons  of  spring  water  put  six 
pounds  of  sun  raisins  cut  small,  and 
a  dozen  pounds  of  fine  sugar :  boil 
the  whole  together  for  about  an  hour 
and  a  half.  When  the  liquor  is  cold, 
put  in  half  a  peck  of  ripe  elder 
flowers,  with  about  a  gill  of  lemon 
juice,  and  half  the  quantity  of  ale 


yeast.  Cover  it  up,  and  after  stand- 
ing three  days,  strain  it  off.  Pour 
it  into  a  cask  that  is  quite  clean, 
and  that  will  hold  it  with  ease.  When 
this  is  done,  add  a  quart  of  Rhenish 
wine  to  every  gallon  of  liquor,  and 
let  the  bung  be  lightly  put  in  for 
twelve  or  fourteen  days.  Then  stop 
it  down  fast,  and  put  it  in  a  cool  dry 
place  for  four  or  five  months,  till  it 
is  quite  settled  and  fine  :  then  bot- 
tle It  off. 

ENGLISH  BAMBOO.  About 
the  middle  of  May,  cut  some  large 
young  shoots  of  elder ;  strip  off  the 
outward  peel,  and  soak  them  all 
night  in  some  strong  salt  and  water. 
Dry  them  separately  in  a  cloth,  and 
have  in  readiness  the  following  pic- 
kle. To  a  quart  of  vinegar  put  an 
ounce  of  white  pepper,  an  ounce  of 
sliced  ginger,  a  little  mace  and  pi- 
mento, all  boiled  together.  Put  the 
elder  shoots  into  a  stone  jar,  pour 
on  the  liquor  boiling  hot,  stop  it  up 
close,  and  set  it  by  the  fire  two  hours, 
turning  the  jar  often  to  keep  it  hot. 
If  not  green  when  cold,  strain  off  ^ 
the  liquor,  pour  it  on  boiling  again, 
and  keep  it  hot  as  before. — Or  if  it 
be  intended  to  make  Indian  pickle, 
the  addition  of  these  shoots  will  be 
found  to  be  a  great  improvement. 
In  this  case  it  will  only  be  necessary 
to  pour  boiling  vinegar  and  mustard 
seed  on  them,  and  to  keep  them  till 
the  jar  of  pickles  shall  be  ready  to 
receive  them.  The  cluster  of  elder 
flowers  before  it  opens,  makes  a  de- 
licious pickle  to  eat  with  boiled  mut- 
ton. It  is  prepared  by  only  pour- 
ing vinegar  over  the  flowers. 

ENGLISH  BRANDY.  English 
or  British  brandy  may  be  made  in 
smaller  quantities,  according  to  the 
following  proportions.  To  sixty  gal- 
lons of  clear  rectified  spirits,  put 
one  pound  of  sweet  spirit  of  nitre, 
one  pound,  of  cassia  buds  ground, 
one  pound  of  bitter  almond  meal, 
(the  cassia  and  almond  meal  to  be 
mixed  together  before  they  are  put 
to  the  spirits)  two  ounces  of  sliced 
117 


ENG 


ESS 


orris  root,  and  about  thirty  or  forty 
prune  stones  pounded.  Shake  the 
whole  well  together,  two  or  three 
times  a  day,  for  three  days  or  more. 
Let  them  settle,  then  pour  in  one 
gallon  of  the  best  wine  vinegar  ;  and 
add  to  every  four  gallons,  one  gallon 
of  foreign  brandy. 

ENGLISH  CHAMPAIGNE. 
Take  gooseberries  before  they  are 
rip€,  crush  them  with  a  mallet  in 
a  wooden  bowl ;  and  to  every  gallon 
of  fruit,  put  a  gallon  of  water.  Let 
it  stand  two  days,  stirring  it  well. 
Squeeze  the  mixture  with  the  hands 
through  a  hop  sieve,  then  measure 
the  liquor,  and  to  every  gallon  put 
three  pounds  and  a  half  of  loaf  su- 
gar. Mix  it  well  in  the  tub,  and  let 
it  stand  one  day.  Put  a  bottle  of 
the  best  brandy  into  the  cask,  which 
leave  open  five  or  six  weeks,  taking 
off  the  scum  as  it  rises.  Then  stop 
it  up,  and  let  it  stand  one  year  in 
the  barrel  before  it  is  bottled. 

ENGLISH  SHERRY.  Boil  thirty 
pounds  of  lump  sugar  in  ten  gallons 

H  of  water,  and  clear  it  of  the  scum. 
When  cold,  put  a  quart  of  new  ale- 
wort  to  every  gallon  of  liquor,  and 
let  it  work  in  the  tub  a  day  or  two. 
Then  put  it  into  a  cask  with  a  pound 
of  sugar  candy,  six  pounds  of  fine 
raisins,  a  pint  of  brandy,  and  two 
ounces  of  isinglass.  When  the  fer- 
mentation is  over,  stop  it  close  :  let 
it  stand  eight  months,  rack  it  off*, 
and  add  a  little  more  brandy.  Re- 
turn it  to  the  cask  again,  and  let  it 
stand  four  months  before  it  is  bot- 
tled. 

ENGLISH  WINES.  During  the 
high  price  of  foreign  wine,  home- 
made wines  will  be  found  particular- 
ly useful ;  and  though  sugar  is  dear, 
they  may  be  prepared  at  a  quarter 
of  the  expence.  If  carefully  made, 
and  kept  three  or  four  years,  a  pro- 
portionable strength  being  given, 
they  would   answer  the  purpose  of 

^     foreign  wines  for  health,  and  cause 
W'       a  very  considerable  reduction  in  the 
expenditure.     Sugar  and  water  are 
118 


the  principal  basis  of  home-made 
wine  ;  and  when  these  require  to  be 
boiled,  it  is  proper  to  beat  up  the 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  mix 
them  with  the  water  when  cold,  in 
the  proportion  of  one  egg  to  a  gal- 
lon. When  the  sugar  and  water  are 
boiled,  the  liquor  should  be  cooled 
quickly ;  and  if  not  for  wines  that 
require  fermenting,  it  may  be  put 
into  the  cask  when  cold.  If  the 
wine  is  to  be  fermented,  the  yeast 
should  be  put  into  it  when  it  is  milk- 
warm  ;  but  must  not  be  left  more 
than  two  nights  to  ferment,  before 
it  is  put  into  the  cask.  Particular 
care  should  be  taken  to  have  the 
cask  sweet  and  dry,  and  washed  in- 
side with  a  little  brandy,  before  the 
wine  is  tunned,  but  it  should  not  be 
bunged  up  close  till  it  has  done  fer- 
menting. After  standing  three  or 
four  months,  it  will  be  necessary  to 
taste  the  wine,  to  know  whether  it  be 
fit  to  draw  off.  If  not  sweet  enough, 
some  sugar  should  be  added,  or  draw 
it  off  into  another  cask,  and  put  in 
some  sugar-candy ;  but  if  too  sweet, 
let  it  stand  a  little  longer.  When 
the  wine  is  racked,  the  dregs  may 
be  drained  through  a  flannel  bag  ; 
and  the  wine,  if  not  clear  enough 
for  the  table,  may  be  used  for  sauce. 

ESSENCE  OF  ALLSPICE.  Take 
a  dram  of  the  oil  of  pimento,  and 
mix  it  by  degrees  with  two  ounces 
of  strong  spirit  of  wine.  A  few  drops 
will  give  the  flavour  of  allspice  to  a 
pint  of  gravv,  or  mulled  wine. 

ESSENCE  OF  ANCHOVY.  Put 
into  a  marble  mortar  ten  or  twelve 
fine  mellow  anchovies,  that  have 
been  well  pickled,  and  pound  them 
to  a  pulp.  Put  this  into  a  clean 
well-tinned  saucepan,  then  put  a  ta- 
ble-spoonful of  cold  water  into  the 
mortar,  shake  it  round,  and  pour  it 
to  the  pounded  anchovies.  Set  them 
by  the  side  of  a  slow  fire,  frequently 
stirring  them  together  till  they  are 
melted,  which  they  will  be  in  the 
course  of  five  minutes.  Now  stir  io 
a  quarter  of  a  dram  of  good  cayenne. 


ESS 


ESS 


and  let  it  remain  by  the  fire  a  few 
minutes  longer.  Rub  it  through  a 
hair  sieve  with  the  back  of  a  wooden 
spoon,  and  keep  it  stopped  very 
closely  :  if  the  air  gets  to  it,  it  is 
spoiled  directly.  Essence  of  ancho- 
vy is  made  sometimes  with  sherry, 
or  madeira,  instead  of  water,  or  with 
the  addition  of  mushroom  ketchup. 

ESSENCE  OF  CAYENNE.  Put 
half  an  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper 
into  half  a  pint  of  wine  or  brandy, 
let  it  steep  a  fortnight,  and  then 
pour  off  the  clear  liquor.  This  ar- 
ticle is  very  convenient  for  the  ex- 
tempore seasoning  and  finishing  of 
soups  and  sauces,  its  tlavour  being 
instantly  and  equally  diffused. 

ESSENCE  OF  CELERY.  Steep 
in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  brandy,  or 
proof  spirit,  half  an  ounce  of  celery 
seed  bruised,  and  let  it  stand  a  fort- 
night. A  few  drops  will  immediately 
flavour  a  pint  of  broth,  and  are  an 
excellent  addition  to  pease,  and 
other  soups. 

ESSENCE  OF  CLOVES.  Mix 
together  two  ounces  of  the  strongest 
spirit  of  wine,  and  a  dram  of  the  oil 
of  cloves.  Nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and 
mace  are  prepared  in  the  same  man- 
ner. 

ESSENCE  OF  FLOWERS.  Se- 
lect a  quantity  of  the  petals  of  any 
flowers  which  have  an  agreeable 
fragrance,  lay  them  in  an  earthen 
vessel,  and  sprinkle  a  little  fine  salt 
upon  them.  Then  dip  some  cotton 
into  the  best  Florence  oil,  and  lay  it 
thin  upon  the  flowers  ;  continue  a 
layer  of  petals,  and  a  layer  of  cot- 
ton, till  the  vessel  is  full.  It  is  then 
to  be  closed  down  with  a  bladder, 
and  exposed  to  the  heat  of  the  sun. 
In  about  a  fortnight  a  fragrant  oil 
may  be  squeezed  away  from  the 
whole  mass,  which  will  yield  a  rich 
perfume. 

ESSENCE  OF  GINGER.  Grate 
three  ounces  of  ginger,  and  an  ounce 
of  thin  lemon  peel,  into  a  quart  of 
brandy,  or  proof  spirit,  and  let  it 
stand   for  ten  days,  shaking  it  up 


each  day.  If  ginger  is  taken  to  pro- 
duce an  immediate  effect,  to  warm 
the  stomach,  or  dispel  flatulence, 
this  will  be  found  the  best  prepara- 
tion. 

ESSENCE  OF  LAVENDER. 
Take  the  blossoms  from  the  stalks 
in  warm  weather,  and  spread  them 
in  the  shade  for  twenty-four  hours 
on  a  linen  cloth ;  then  bruise  and 
put  them  into  warm  water,  and  leave 
them  closely  covered  in  a  still  for 
four  or  five  hours  near  the  fire.  Af- 
ter this  the  bl6ssoms  may  be  dis- 
tilled in  the  usual  way. 

ESSENCE  OF  LEMON  PEEL. 
Wash  and  brush  clean  the  lemons, 
and  let  them  get  perfectly  dry.  Take 
a  lump  of  fine  sugar,  and  rub  them 
till  all  the  yellow  rind  is  taken  up 
by  the  sugar ;  scrape  off  the  surfiice 
of  the  sugar  into  a  preserving  pot, 
and  press  it  hard  down.  Cover  it 
very  close,  and  it  will  keep  for  some 
time.  By  this  process  is  obtained 
the  whole  of  the  fine  essential  oil, 
which  contains  the  flavour. 

ESSENCE  OF  MUSHROOMS. 
This  delicate  relish  is  made  by 
sprinkling  a  little  salt  over  some 
mushrooms,  and  mashing  them  three 
hours  after.  Next  day  strain  off  the 
liquor,  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  and 
boil  it  till  reduced  one  half.  It  will 
not  keep  long,  but  is  preferable  to 
any  of  the  ketchups.  An  artificial 
bed  of  mushrooms  would  supply  this 
article  all  the  year  round. 

ESSENCE  OF  OYSTERS.  Take 
fine  fresh  Milton  oysters,  wash  them 
in  their  own  liquor,  skim  it,  and 
pound  them  in  a  marble  mortar.  To 
a  pint  of  oysters  add  a  pint  of  sherry, 
boil  them  up,  and  add  an  ounce  of 
salt,  two  drams  of  pounded  mace, 
and  one  of  cayenne.  Let  it  just  boil 
up  again,  skim  it,  and  rub  it  through 
a  sieve.  When  cold,  bottle  and  cork 
it  well,  and  seal  it  down.  This  com- 
position very  agreeably  heightens 
the  flavour  of  white  sauces,  and 
white  made-dishes.  If  a  glass  of 
brandv  be  added  to  the  essence,  it 
119 


EVA 


EVA 


will  keep  a  considerable  time  longer 
than  oysters  are  out  of  season. 

ESSENCE  OF  SHALOT..  Peel, 
mince,  and  pound  in  a  mortar,  three 
ounces  of  shalots,  and  infuse  them  in 
a  pint  of  sherry  for  three  days.  Then 
pour  ofl'  the  clear  liquor  on  three 
ounces  more  of  shalots,  and  let  the 
wine  remain  on  them  ten  days  longer. 
An  ounce  of  scraped  horseradish 
may  be  added  to  the  above,  and  a 
little  thin  lemon  peel.  This  will  im*- 
part  a  fine  flavour  to  soups,  sauces, 
hashes,  and  various  other  dishes. 

ESSENCE  OF  SOAP.  For  wash- 
ing or  shaving,  the  essence  of  soap 
is  very  superior  to  what  is  commonly 
used  for  these  purposes,  and  a  very 
small  quantity  will  make  an  excel- 
lent lather.  Mix  two  ounces  of  salt 
of  tartar  with  half  a  pound  of  soap 
finely  sliced,  put  them  into  a  quart 
of  spirits  of  wine,  in  a  bottle  that 
will  contain  twicethe  quantity.  Tie 
it  down  with  a  bladder,  prick  a  pin 
through  it  for  the  air  to  escape,  set 
it  to  digest  in  a  gentle  heat,  and 
shake  up  the  contents.  When  the 
soap  is  dissolved,  filter  the  liquor 
through  some  paper  to  free  it  from 
impurities,  and  scent  it  with  burga- 
mot  or  essence  of  lemon. 

ESSENCE  OF  TURTLE.  Mix 
together  one  wine-glassful  of  the 
essence  of  anchovy,  one  and  a  half 
of  shalot  wine,  four  wine-glassfuls 
of  Basil  wine,  two  ditto  of  mushroom 
ketchup,  one  dram  of  lemon  acid, 
three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  lemon 
peel  very  thinly  pared,  and  a  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  of  curry  powder,  and 
let  them  steep  together  for  a  week. 
The  essence  thus  obtained  will  be 
found  convenient  to  flavour  soup, 
sauce,  potted  meats,  savoury  patties, 
and  various  other  articles. 

EVACUATIONS.  Few  things  are 
more  conducive  to  health  than  keep- 
ing the  body  regular,  and  paying 
attention  to  the  common  evacuations. 
A  proper  medium  between  costive- 
ness  and  laxness  is  highly  desirable, 
and  can  only  be  obtained  by  regula- 
120 


rity  in  diet,  sleep,  and  exercise.  Ir- 
regularity in  eating  and  drinking  dis- 
turbs every  part  of  the  animal  eco- 
nomy, and  never  fails  to  produce 
diseases.  Too  much  or  too  little 
food  will  have  this  eftect :  the  for- 
mer generally  occasions  looseness, 
and  the  latter  costiveness ;  and  both 
have  a  tendency  to  injure  health. 
Persons  who  have  frequent  recourse 
to  medicine  for  preventing  costive- 
ness, seldom  fail  to  ruin  their  con- 
stitution. They  ought  rather  to  re- 
move the  evil  by  diet  than  by  drugs, 
by  avoiding  every  thing  of  a  hot  or 
binding  nature,  by  going  thinly 
clothed,- walking  in  the  open  air,  and 
acquiring  the  habit  of  a  regular  dis- 
charge by  a  stated  visit  to  the  place 
of  retreat.  Habitual  looseness  is  of- 
ten owing  to  an  obstructed  perspi- 
ration :  persons  thus  afflicted  should 
keep  their  feet  warm,  and  wear 
flannel  next  the  skin.  Their  diet 
also  should  be  of  an  astringent  qua- 
lity, and  such  as  tends  to  strength- 
en the  bowels.  For  this  purpose, 
fine  bread,  cheese,  eggs,  rice  milk, 
red  wine,  or  brandy  and  water  would 
be  proper. — Insensible  perspiration 
is  one  of  the  principal  discharges 
from  the  human  body,  and  is  of  such 
importance  to  health,  that  few  dis- 
eases attack  us  while  it  goes  on  pro- 
perly ;  but  when  obstructed,  the 
whole  frame  is  soon  disordered,  and 
danger  meets  us  in  every  form.  The 
common  cause  of  obstructed  per- 
spiration, or  taking  cold,  is  the  sud- 
den changes  of  the  weather  ;  and 
the  best  means  of  fortifying  the  body 
is  to  be  abroad  every  day,  and  breathe 
freely  in  the  open  air.  Much  dan- 
ger arises  from  wet  feet  and  wet 
clothes,  and  persons  who  are  much 
abroad  are  exposed  to  these  things. 
The  best  way  is  to  change  wet  clothes 
as  soon  as  possible,  or  to  keep  in 
motion  till  they  be  dry,  but  by  no 
means  to  sit  or  lie  down.  Early  ha- 
bits may  indeed  inure  people  to  wet 
clothes  and  wet  feet  without  any 
danger,  but  persons  of  a  delicate 


EXE 


EXE 


constitution  cannot  be  too  careful. 
Perspiration  is  often  obstructed  by 
other  means,  but  it  is  in  all  cases  at- 
tended with  considerable  danger. 
Sudden  transitions  from  heat  to  cold, 
drinking  freely  of  cold  water  after 
being  heated  with  violent  exercise, 
sitting  near  an  open  window  when 
the  room  is  hot,  plunging  into  cold 
watter  in  a  state  of  perspiration,  or 
going  into  the  cold  air  immediately 
after  sitting  in  a  warm  room,  are 
among  the  various  means  by  which 
the  health  of  thousands  is  constantly 
ruined  ;  and  more  die  of  colds  than 
are  killed  by  plagues,  or  slain  in 
battle. 

EVE'S  PUDDING.  Grate  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  bread  ;  mix 
it  with  the  same  quantity  of  shred 
suet,  the  same  of  apples,  and  also 
of  currants.  Mix  with  these  the 
whole  of  four  eggs,  and  the  rind  of 
half  a  lemon  shred  fine.  Put  it  into 
a  shape,  and  boil  it  three  hours. 
Serve  with  pudding  sauce,  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

EXERCISE.  Whether  man  were 
originally  intended  for  labour  or  not, 
it  is  evident  from  the  human  struc- 
ture, that  exercise  is  not  less  neces- 
sary than  food,  for  the  preservation 
of  health.  It  is  generally  seen 
among  the  labouring  part  of  the 
community,  that  industry  places 
them  above  want,  and  activity  serves 
them  instead  of  physic.  It  seems  to 
be  the  established  law  of  the  animal 
creation,  that  without  exercise  no 
creature  should  enjoy  health,  or  be 
able  to  find  subsistence.  Every 
creature,  except  man,  takes  as  much 
of  it  as  is  necessary  :  he  alone  devi- 
ates from  this  original  law,  and  suf- 
fers accordingly.  Weak  nerves,  and 
glandular  obstructions,  which  are 
now  so  common,  are  the  constant 
companions  of  inactivity.  We  sel- 
dom hear  the  active  or  laborious 
complain  of  nervous  diseases :  in- 
deed many  have  been  cured  of  them 
by  being  reduced  to  the  necessity  of 
(No.  6.) 


labouring   for   their   own    support; 
This  shews  the  source  from  which 
such  disorders  flow,  and  the  means 
by  which  they  may  be  prevented. 
It  is  evident  that  health  cannot  be 
enjoyed  where  the  perspiration  is 
not  duly  carried  on  ;  but  that  can 
never  be  the  case  where  exercise  is 
neglected.     Hence  it  is  that  the  in- 
active are  continually  complaining 
of  pains  of  the  stomach,  flatulencies, 
and  various  other  disorders  which 
cannot  be  removed  by  medicine,  but 
might  be  eflfectually  cured  by  a  course 
of  vigorous  exercise.     But  to  render 
this  in  the  highest  degree  beneficial, 
it  should  always  be  taken  in  the  open 
air,  especially  in  the  morning,  while 
the  stomach  is  empty,  and  the  body 
refreshed  with  sleep.     The  morning 
air  braces  and  strengthens  the  nerves, 
and  in  some  measure  answers .  the 
purpose  of  a  cold  bath.    Every  thing 
that  induces  people  to  sit  still,  ex- 
cept it  be  some  necessary  employ- 
ment, ought  to  be  avoided ;  and  if 
exercise  cannot  be  had  in  the  open 
air,  it  should  be  attended  to  as  far 
as  possible  within  doors.     Violent  . 
exertions  however  are  no  more  to  be 
recommended  than  inactivity ;    for 
whatever  fatigues  the  body,  prevents 
the  benefit  of  exercise,  and  tends  to 
weaken  rather  than  strengthen  it. 
Fast  walking,  immediately  before  or 
after   meals,   is  highly   pernidous, 
and  necessarily  accelerates  the  cir- 
culation of  the  blood,  which  is  at- 
tended with  imminent  danger  to  the 
head  or  brain.     On  the  other  hand, 
indolence   not   only  occasions  dis- 
eases, and  renders  men  useless  to 
society,  but  it  is  the  parent  of  vice. 
The  mind,  if  not  engaged  in  some 
useful  pursuit,  is  constantly  in  search 
of  ideal  pleasures,  or  impressed  with 
the  apprehension  of  some  imaginary 
evil;  and  from  these  sources  pro- 
ceed most  of  the  miseries  of  man- 
kind.     An    active  life  is  the  best 
guardian  of  virtue,  and  the  greatest 
preservative  of  health. 

R  121 


FA  M 


F  A  W 


F. 


FaC  similes.  To  produce  a  fac- 
simile of  any  writing,  the  pen  should 
be  made  of  glass  enamel,  the  point 
being  small  and  finely  polished,  so 
that  the  part  above  the  point  may 
be  large  enough  to  hold  as  much  or 
more  ink  than  a  common  writing 
pen.  A  mixture  of  equal  parts  of 
Frankfort  black,  and  fresh  butter,  is 
now  to  be  smeared  over  sheets  of 
paper,  and  is  to  be  rubbed  off  after 
a  certain  time.  The  paper  thus 
smeared  is  to  be  pressed  for  some 
hours,  taking  care  to  have  sheets  of 
blotting  paper  between  each  of  the 
sheets  of  black  paper.  When  fit  for 
use,  writing  paper  is  put  between 
sheets  of  blackened  paper,  and  the 
upper  sheet  is  to  be  written  on,  with 
common  ink,  by  the  glass  or  enamel 
pen.  By  this  method,  not  only  the 
copy  is  obtained  on  which  the  pen 
writes,  but  also  two  or  more,  made 
bv  means  of  the  blackened  paper. 

^  FAMILY  PIES.  To  make  a  plain 
trust  for  pies  to  be  eaten  hot,  or  for 
fruit  puddings,  cut  some  thin  slices 
of  beef  suet,  lay  them  in  some  flour, 
mix  it  with  cold  water,  and  roll  it 
till  it  is  quite  soft.  Or  make  a  paste 
of  half  a  pound  of  butter  or  lard, 
and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour. 
Mix  it  with  water,  work  it  up,  roll 
it  out  twice,and  cover  the  dish  with  it. 
FAMILY  WINE.  An  excellent 
compound  wine,  suited  to  family 
use,  may  be  made  of  equal  parts  of 
red,  white,  and  black  currants,  ripe 
cherries  and  raspberries,  well  bruis- 
ed, and  mixed  with  soft  water,  in 
the  proportion  of  four  pounds  of 
fruit  to  one  gallon  of  water.  When 
strained  and  pressed,  three  pounds 
of  moist  sugar  are  to  be  added  to 
each  gallon  of  liquid.  After  stand- 
ing open  for  three  days,  during 
which  it  is  to  be  stirred  frequently, 
it  is  to  be  put  into  a  barrel,  and  left 
for  a  fortnight  to  work,  when  a  ninth 
part  of  brandy  is  to  be  added,  and 
122 


the  whole  bunged  down.  In  a  few 
months  it  will  be  a  most  excellent 
wine. 

FATTING  FOWLS.  Chickens 
or  fowls  may  be  fatted  in  four  or 
five  days,  by  setting  some  rice  over 
the  fire  with  skimmed  milk,  as  much 
as  will  serve  for  one  day.  Let  it 
boil  till  the  rice  is  quite  swelled,  and 
add  a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar.  Feed 
them  three  times  a  day,  in  common 
pans,  giving  them  only  as  much  as 
will  quite  fill  them  at  once.  Before 
they  are  fed  again,  set  the  pans  in 
water,  that  no  sourness  may  be  con- 
veyed to  the  fowls,  as  that  would 
prevent  their  fattening.  Let  them 
drink  clean  water,  or  the  milk  of  the 
rice  ;  but  when  rice  is  given  them, 
after  being  peerfectly  soakd,  let  as 
much  of  the  moisture  as  possible  be 
drawn  from  it.  By  this  method 
the  flesh  will  have  a  clean  whiteness, 
which  no  other  food  gives  ;  and 
when  it  is  considered  how  far  a 
pound  of  rice  will  go,  and  how  much 
time  is  saved  by  this  mode,  it  will 
be  found  nearly  as  cheap  as  any 
other  food,  especially  if  it  is  to  be 
purchased.  The  chicken  pen  should 
be  cleaned  every  day,  and  no  food 
given  for  sixteen  hours  before  poul- 
try is  to  be  killed. 

FAWN.  A  fawn,  like  a  sucking 
pig,  should  be  dressed  almost  as 
soon  as  it  is  killed.  When  very 
young,  it  is  trussed,  stufl'ed,  and 
spitted  the  same  as  a  hare.  But 
they  are  better  eating  when  of  the 
size  of  a  house  lamb,  and  then  roast- 
ed in  quarters :  the  hind  quarter  is 
most  esteemed.  The  meat  must  be 
put  down  to  a  very  quick  fire,  and 
either  basted  all  the  time  it  is  roast- 
ing, or  be  covered  with  sheets  of  fat 
bacon.  When  done,  baste  it  with 
butter,  and  dredge  it  with  a  little 
salt  and  flour,  till  a  nice  froth  is  set 
upon  it.  Serve  it  up  with  venison 
sauce.     If  a  fawn  be  half  roasted  as 


FEA 


FEV 


soon  as  received,  and  afterwards 
made  into  a  hash,  it  will  be  very 
fine. 

FEAR.  Sudden  fear,  or  an  un- 
expected fright,  often  produces  epi- 
leptic fits,  and  other  dangerous  dis- 
orders. Many  young  people  have 
lost  their  lives  or  their  senses  by  the 
foolish  attempts  of  producing  vio- 
lent alarm,  and  the  mind  has  been 
thrown  into  such  disorders  as  never 
again  to  act  with  regularity.  A  set- 
tled dread  and  anxiety  not  only  dis- 
pose the  body  to  diseases,  but  often 
render  those  diseases  fatal,  which  a 
cheerful  mind  would  overcome  ;  and 
the  constant  dread  of  some  future 
evil,  has  been  known  to  bring  on  the 
very  evil  itself.  A  mild  and  sympa- 
thizing behaviour  towards  the  af- 
flicted will  do  them  more  good  than 
medicine,  and  he  is  the  best  phy- 
sician and  the  best  friend  who  ad- 
ministers the  consolation  of  hope. 

FEATHERS.  Where  poultry  is 
usually  sold  ready  picked,  the  fea- 
thers which  occasionally  come  in 
small  quantities  are  neglected  ;  but 
care  should  be  taken  to  put  them 
into  a  clean  tub,  and  as  they  dry  to 
change  them  into  paper  bags,  in 
small  quantities.  They  should  hah g 
in  a  dry  kitchen  to  season  ;  fresh 
ones  must  not  be  added  to  those  in 
part  dried,  or  they  will  occasion  a 
musty  smell,  but  they  should  go 
through  the  same  process.  In  a  few 
months  they  will  be  fit  to  add  to 
beds,  or  to  make  pillows,  without 
the  usual  mode  of  drying  them  in  a 
cool  oven,  which  may  be  pursued  if 
they  are  wanted  before  five  or  six 
months. 

FEATHERS  CLEANED.  In  or- 
der to  clear  feathers  from  animal 
oil,  dissolve  a  pound  of  quick  lime 
in  a  gallon  of  clear  water ;  and  pour 
off  the  clear  lime-water  for  use,  at 
the  time  it  is  wanted.  Put  the  fea- 
thers to  be  cleaned  in  a  tub,  and 
add  to  them  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
the  clear  lime-water,  so  as  to  cover 
them  about  three  inches.     The  fea- 


thers, when  thoroughly  moistened, 
will  sink  down,  and  should  remain 
in  the  lime-water  for  three  or  four 
days;  after  which,  the  foul  liquor 
should  be  separated  from  them  by 
laying  them  on  a  sieve.  They  are 
afterwards  to  be  washed  in  clean 
water,  and  dried  on  nets,  the  meshes 
being  about  the  same  fineness  as 
those  of  cabbage  nets.  They  must 
be  shaken  from  time  to  time  on  the 
nets  ;  as  they  dry,  they  will  fall 
through  the  meshes,  and  are  to  be 
collected  for  use.  The  admission  of 
air  will  be  serviceable  in  the  drying, 
and  the  whole  process  may  be  com- 
pleted in  about  three  weeks.  The 
feathers,  after  being  thus  prepared, 
want  nothing  farther  than  beating, 
to  be  used  either  for  beds,  bolsters, 
pillows,  or  cushions. 

FEET.  To  prevent  corns  from 
growing  on  the  feet,  wear  easy  shoes, 
and  bathe  the  feet  often  in  lukewarm 
water,  with  a  little  salt  and  potash 
dissolved  in  it.  The  corn  itself  may 
be  completely  destroyed  by  rubbing 
it  daily  with  a  little  caustic  solution 
of  potash,  till  a  soft  and  flexible 
skin  is  formed.  For  chilblains,  soak 
the  feet  in  warm  bran  and  water  and 
rub  them  well  with  flour  of  mustard. 
This  should  be  done  before  the  chil- 
blains begin  to  break. 

FENNEL   SAUCE.     Boil  fennel 
and  parsley,  tied  together  in  a  bunch  ^^ 
chop  it  small,  and  stir  it  up  with 
melted  butter.     This  sauce  is  gene- 
rally eaten  with  mackarel. 

FEVER  DRINK.  To  make  a  re- 
freshing drink  in  a  fever,  put  into  a 
stone  jug  a  little  tea  sage,  two  sprigs 
of  balm,  and  a  small  quantity  of 
wood  sorrel,  having  first  washed  and 
dried  them.  Peel  thin  a  small  lemon, 
and  clear  from  the  white  ;  slice  it, 
and  put  in  a  bit  of  the  peel.  Then 
pour  in  three  pints  of  boiling  water, 
sweeten,  and  cover  it  close. — Ano- 
ther drink.  Wash  extremely  well 
an  ounce  of  pearl  barley ;  shift  it 
twice,  then  put  to  it  three  pints  of 
water,  an  ounce  of  sweet  almonds 
123 


FIN 


FIN 


beaten  fine,  and  a  bit  of  lemon  peel. 
Boil  the  liquor  smooth,  put  in  a  lit- 
tle syrup  of  lemons,  and  capillaire. 
— Another  way  is  to  boil  three  pints 
of  water  with  an  ounce  and  a  half  of 
tamarinds,  three  ounces  of  currants, 
and  two  ounces  of  stoned  raisins, 
till  nearly  a  third  is  consumed. 
Strain  it  on  a  bit  of  lemon  peel, 
which  should  be  removed  in  the 
course  of  an  hour,  or  it  will  infuse  a 

FILLET  OF  VEAL.  Stuff  it  well 
under  the  udder,  at  the  bone,  and 
quite  through  to  the  shank.  Put  it 
into  the  oven,  with  a  pint  of  water 
under  it,  till  it  comes  to  a  fine  brown. 
Then  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  three 
pints  of  gravy,  and  stew  it  quite 
tender.  Add  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon 
pickle,  a  large  spoonful  of  brown- 
ing, one  of  ketchup,  and  a  little  cay- 
enne ;  thicken  it  with  a  bit  of  but- 
ter rolled,  in  flour.  Put  the  veal  in 
a  dish,  strain  the  gravy  over  it,  and 
lay  rouqd  it  forcemeat  balls.  Gar- 
nish with  pickle  and  lemon. 

FINE  CAKE.  To  make  an  excel- 
lent cake,  rub  two  pounds  of  fine 
dry  flour  with  oni^  of  butter,  washed 
'  in  plain  and  then  in  rose  water. 
Mix  with  it  three  spoonfuls  of  yeast, 
in  a  little  warm  milk  and  water. 
Set  it  to  rise  an  hour  and  a  half  be- 
fore the  fire,  and  then  beat  into  it 
two  pounds  of  currants,  carefully 
washed  and  picked,  and  one  pound 
of  sifted  sugar.  Add  four  ounces 
of  almonds,  six  ounces  of  stoned 
raisins  chopped  fine,  half  a  nutmeg, 
cinnamon,  allspice,  and  a  few  cloves, 
the  peel  of  a  lemon  shred  very  fine, 
a  glass  of  wine,  one  of  brandy, 
twelve  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  beat 
separately,  with  orange,  citron,  and 
lenioii.  Beat  them  up  well  together, 
butter  the  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. — To  make  a  still  finer  cake, 
wash  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  fresh 
butter  in  water  first,  and  then  in 
rose  water,  and  beat  the  butter  to  a 
cream.  Beat  up  twenty  eggs,  yolks 
find  whites,  separately,  half  an  hour 
124 


each.  Have  ready  two  pounds  and 
a  half  of  the  finest  flour  well  dried 
and  kept  hot,  likewise  a  pound  and 
a  half  of  loaf  sugar  pounded  and 
sifted,  an  ounce  of  spice  in  very  fine 
powder,  three  pounds  of  currants 
nicely  cleaned  and  dry,  half  a  pound 
of  almonds  blanched,  and  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sweetmeats 
cut  small.  Let  all  be  kept  by  the 
fire,  and  mix  the  dry  ingredients. 
Pour  the  eggs  strained  to  the  butter, 
mix  half  a  glass  of  sweet  wine  with 
a  full  glass  of  brandy,  and  pour  it 
to  the  butter  and  eggs,  mixing  them 
well  together.  Add  the  dry  ingre- 
dients by  degrees,  and  beat  them 
together  thoroughly  for  a  great  length 
of  time.  Having  prepared  and  stoned 
half  a  pound  of  jar  raisins,  chopped 
as  fine  as  possible,  mix  them  care- 
fully, so  that  there  shall  be  no 
lumps,  and  add  a  tea-cupful  of 
orange  flower  water.  Beat  the  isj- 
gredients  together  a  full  hour  at 
least.  Have  a  hoop  well  buttered, 
or  a  tin  or  copper  cake-pan  ;  take 
a  white  paper,  doubled  and  butter- 
ed, and  put  in  the  pan  round  the 
edge,  if  the  cake  batter  fill  it  more 
than  three  parts,  for  space  should 
be  allowed  for  rising.  Bake  it  in  a 
quick  oven  :  three  hours  will  be  re- 
quisite. 

FINE  CRUST.  For  orange 
cheesecakes,  or  sweetmeats,  when 
intended  to  be  particularly  nice,  the 
following  fine  crust  may  be  prepared. 
Dry  a  pound  of  the  finest  flour  and 
mix  with  it  three  ounces  of  refined 
sugar.  Work  up  half  a  pound  of 
butter  with  the  hand  till  it  comes  to 
a  froth,  put  the  flour  into  it  by  de- 
grees, adding  the  yolks  of  three  and 
the  whites  of  two  eggs,  weli  beaten 
and  strained.  If  too  thin,  add  a 
little  flour  and  sugar  to  make  it  fit 
to  roll.  Line  some  pattipans,  and 
fill  them  :  a  little  more  than  fifteen 
minutes  will  bake  them.  Beat  up 
some  refined  sugar  with  the  white 
of  an  egg,  as  thick  as  possible,  and 
ice  the  articles  all  over  as  soon  as 


FIR 


FIS 


they  are  baked.  Then  return  them 
to  the  oven  to  harden,  and  serve 
them  up  cold,  "with  fresh  butter. 
Salt  butter  will  make  a  very  fine 
flaky  crust,  but  if  for  mince  pies,  or 
any  sweet  things,  it  should  first  be 
washed. 

FIRE  ARMS.  The  danger  of 
improperly  loading  fire  arms  chiefly 
arises  from  not  ramming  the  wad- 
ding close  to  the  powder  ;  and  then 
when  a  fowling-piece  is  discharged, 
it  is  very  likely  to  burst  in  pieces. 
This  circumstance,  though  well 
known,  is  often  neglected,  and  va- 
rious accidents  are  occasioned  by 
it.  Hence  when  a  screw  barrel  pis- 
tol is  to  be  loaded,  care  should  be 
taken  that  the  cavity  for  the  powder 
be  entirely  filled  with  it,  so  as  to 
leave  no  space  between  the  powder 
and  the  ball.  For  the  same  reason, 
if  the  bottom  of  a  large  tree  is  to  be 
shivered  with  gunpowder,  a  space 
ftiust  be  left  between  the  charge  and 
the  wadding,  and  the  powder  will 
tear  it  asunder.  But  considering 
the  numerous  accidents  that  are  con- 
stantly occurring,  from  the  incau- 
tious use  of  fire  arms,  the  utmost 
care  should  be  taken  not  to  place 
them  within  the  reach  of  children 
or  of  servants,  and  in  no  instance  to 
lay  them  up  without  previously 
drawing  the  charge. 

FIRE  IRONS.  To  preserve  them 
from  rust,  when  not  in  use,  they 
should  be  wrapped  up  in  baize,  and 
kept  in  a  dry  place.  Or  to  preserve 
them  more  eff"ectually,  let  them  be 
smeared  over  with  fresh  mutton 
suet,  and  dusted  with  unslaked  lime, 
pounded  and  tied  up  in  muslin. 
Irons  so  prepared  will  keep  many 
months.  Use  no  oil  for  them  at  any 
time,  except  a  little  salad  oil,  there 
being  water  in  all  other,  which  would 
soon  produce  rust. 

FIRMITY.  To  make  Somerset- 
shire firmity,  boil  a  quart  of  fine 
wheat,  and  add  by  degrees  two 
quarts  of  new  milk.  Pick  and  wash 
four  ounces  of  currants,  stir  them  in 


the  jelly,  and  boil  them  together  till 
all  is  done.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  and  a  little  nutmeg,  with  two 
or  three  spoonfuls  of  milk,  and  add 
to  the  boiling.  Sweeten  the  whole, 
and  serve  it  in  a  deep  dish,  either 
warm  or  cold. 

FISH.  In  dressing  fish  of  any 
kind  for  the  table,  great  care  is  ne- 
cessary in  cleaning  it.  It  is  a  com- 
mon error  to  wash  it  too  much,  and 
by  this  means  the  flavour  is  dimin- 
ished. If  the  fisli  is  to  be  boiled, 
after  it  is  cleaned,  a  little  salt  and 
vinegar  should  be  put  into  the  water, 
to  give  it  firmness.  Codfish,  whit- 
ing, and  haddock,  are  far  better  if 
a  little  salted,  and  kept  a  day  ;  and 
if  the  weather  be  not  very  hot,  they 
will  be  good  two  days.  When  fish 
is  cheap  and  plentiful,  and  a  larger 
quantity  is  purchased  than  is  imme- 
diately wanted,  it  would  be  proper 
to  pot  or  pickle  such  as  will  bear 
it,  or  salt  and  hang  it  up,  or  fry  it  a 
little,  that  it  may  serve  for  stewing 
the  next  day.  Fresh  water  fish  hav- 
ing frequently  a  muddy  smell  and 
taste,  should  be  soaked  in  strong 
salt  and  water,  after  it  has  been  well 
cleaned.  If  of  a  suflScient  size,  it 
may  be  scalded  in  salt  and  water, 
and  afterwards  dried  and  dressed. 
Fish  should  be  put  into  cold  water, 
and  set  on  the  fire  to  do  very  gently, 
or  the  outside  will  break  before  the 
inner  part  is  done.  Crimp  fish  is 
to  be  put  into  boiling  water ;  and 
when  it  boils  up,  pour  in  a  little  cold 
water  to  check  extreme  heat,  and 
simmer  it  a  few  minutes.  The  fish 
plate  on  which  it  is  done,  may  be 
drawn  up,  to  see  if  it  be  ready, 
which  may  be  known  by  its  easily 
separating  from  the  bone.  It  should 
then  be  immediately  taken  out  of  the 
water,  or  it  will  become  woolly. 
The  fish  plate  should  be  set  cross- 
ways  over  the  kettle,  to  keep  hot  for 
serving  ;  and  a  clean  cloth  over  the 
fish,  to  prevent  its  losing  its  colour. 
Small  fish  nicely  fried,  covered  with 
egg  and  crumbs,  make  a  dish  far 
125 


FIS 


FIS 


more  elegant  than  if  served  plain. 
Great  attention  is  required  in  gar- 
nishing fish,  by  using  plenty  of  horse- 
radish, parsley,  and  lemon.  When 
well  done,  and  with  very  good  sauce, 
fish  is  more  attended  to  than  almost 
any  other  dish.  The  liver  and  roe 
should  be  placed  on  the  dish  in  or- 
der that  they  may  be  distributed  in 
the  course  of  serving. — If  fish  is  to 
be  fried  or  broiled,  it  must  be  dried 
in  a  nice  soft  cloth,  after  it  is  well 
cleaned  and  washed.  If  for  frying, 
smear  it  over  with  egg,  and  sprinkle 
on  it  some  fine  crumbs  of  bread.  If 
done  a  second  time  with  the  e^g  and 
bread,  the  fish  will  look  so  much  the 
better.  Put  on  the  fire  a  stout  fry- 
ingpan,  with  a  large  quantity  of  lard 
or  dripping  boiling  hot,  plunge  the 
fish  into  it,  and  let  it  fry  tolerably 
quick,  till  the  colour  is  of  a  fine 
brown  yellow.  If  it  be  done  enough 
before  it  has  obtained  a  proper  de- 
gree of  colour,  the  pan  must  be 
drawn  to  the  side  of  the  fire.  Take 
it  up  carefully,  and  either  place  it 
on  a  large  sieve  turned  upwards,  and 
to  be  kept  for  that  purpose  only,  or 
on  the  under  side  of  a  dish  to  drain. 
If  required  to  be  very  nice,  a  sheet 
of  writing  paper  must  be  placed  to 
receive  the  fish,  that  it  may  be  free 
from  all  grease  ;  it  must  also  be 
of  a  beautiful  colour,  and  all  the 
crumbs  appear  distinct.  The  same 
dripping,  adding  a  little  that  is  fresh, 
will  serve  a  second  time.  Butter 
gives  a  bad  colour,  oil  is  the  best, 
if  the  expense  be  no  objection.  Gar- 
nish with  a  fringe  of  fresh  curled 
parsley.  If  fried  parsley  be  used, 
it  must  be  washed  and  picked,  and 
thrown  into  fresh  water  ;  when  the 
lard  or  dripping  boils,  throw  the 
parsley  into  it  immediately  from  the 
water,  and  instantly  it  will  be  green 
and  crisp,  and  must  be  taken  up 
with  a  slice. — If  fish  is  to  be  broil- 
ed, it  must  be  seasoned,  floured,  and 
laid  on  a  very  clean  gridiron,  which 
when  hot,  should  be  rubbed  with  a 
bit  of  suet,  to  prevent  the  fish  from 
126 


sticking.  It  must  be  broiled  over 
a  very  clear  fire,  that  it  may  not 
taste  smoky  ;  and  not  too  near,  that 
it  may  not  be  scorched. 

FISH  GRAVY.  Skin  two  or 
three  eels,  or  some  flounders  ;  gut 
and  wash  them  very  clean,  cut  them 
into  small  pieces,  and  put  them  into 
a  saucepan.  Cover  them  with  wa- 
ter, and  add  a  little  crust  of  toasted 
bread,  two  blades  of  mace,  some 
whole  pepper,  sweet  herbs,  a  piece 
of  lemon  peel,  an  anchovy  or  two, 
and  a  tea-spoonful  of  horse-radish. 
Cover  the  saucepan  close,  and  let  it 
simmer  ;  then  add  a  little  butter  and 
flour,  and  boil  with  the  above. 

FISH  PIE.  To  make  a  fine  fish 
pie,  boil  two  pounds  of  small  eels. 
Cut  the  fins  quite  close,  pick  off"  the 
flesh,  and  return  the  bones  into  the 
liquor,  with  a  little  mace,  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  slice  of  onion.  Then 
boil  it  till  it  is  quite  rich,  and  strain 
it.  Make  forcemeat  of  the  flesh, 
with  an  anchovy,  a  little  parsley, 
lemon  peel,  salt,  pepper,and  crumbs, 
and  four  ounces  of  butter  warmed. 
Lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish  : 
then  take  the  flesh  of  soles,  small 
cod,  or  dressed  turbot,  and  rub  it 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Lay  this  on 
the  forcemeat,  pour  on  the  gravy, 
and  bake  it.  If  cod  or  soles  are 
used,  the  skin  and  fins  must  be  ta- 
ken oflf. 

FISH  SAUCE.  Put  into  a  very 
nice  tin  saucepan  a  pint  of  port 
wine,  a  gill  of  mountain,  half  a  pint 
of  fine  walnut  ketchup,  twelve  an- 
chovies with  the  liquor  that  belongs 
to  them,  a  gill  of  walnut  pickle,  the 
rind  and  juice  of  a  large  lemon,  four 
or  five  shalots,  a  flavour  of  cayenne, 
three  ounces  of  scraped  horse- 
radish, three  blades  of  mace,  and 
two  tea-spoonfuls  of  made  mustard. 
Boil  it  all  gently,  till  the  rawne'ss 
goes  ofl^,  and  put  it  into  small  bot- 
tles for  use.  Cork  them  very  close 
and  seal  the  top. — Or  chop  two 
dozen  of  anchovies  not  washed,  and 
ten  shalots,  and  scrape  three  spoon- 


FIS 


€LPl 


fbls  of  horseradisli.  Then  add  ten 
blades  of  mace,  twelve  cloves,  tvvfo 
sliced  lemons,  half  a  pint  of  anchovy 
liquor,  a  quart  of  hock  or  Rhenish 
wine,  and  a  pint  of  water.  Boil  it 
down  to  a  quart,  and  strain  it  off. 
When  cold,  add  three  large  spoon- 
fuls of  walnut  ketchup,  and  put  the 
sauce  into  small  bottles  well  corked. 
— To  make  fish  sauce  without  but- 
ter, simmer  very  gently  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  vinegar,  and  half  a  pint  of 
soft  water,  with  an  onion.  Add  four 
cloves,  and  two  blades  of  mace, 
slightly  bruised,  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper.  When 
the  onion  is  quite  tender,  chop  it 
small  with  two  anchovies,  and  set 
the  whole  on  the  fire  to  boil  for  a 
few  minutes,  with  a  spoonful  of 
ketchup.  Prepare  in  the  mean  time 
the  yolks  of  three  fresh  eggs,  well 
beaten  and  strained,  and  mix  the 
liquor  with  them  by  degrees.  When 
all  are  well  mixed,  set  the  saucepan 
over  a  gentle  fire,  keeping  a  bason 
in  one  hand,  to  toss  the  sauce  to  and 
fro  in,  and  shake  the  saucepan  over 
the  fire,  that  the  eggs  may  not  cur- 
dle. Do  not  let  it  boil,  only  make 
the  sauce  hot  enough  to  give  it  the 
thickness  of  melted  butter. — Fish 
sauce  h  la  Craster,  is  made  in  the 
following  manner.  Thicken  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  butter  with  flour, 
and  brown  it.  Add  a  pound  of  the 
best  anchovies  cut  small,  six  blades 
of  pounded  mace,  ten  cloves,  forty 
corns  of  black  pepper  and  allspice, 
a  few  small  onions,  a  faggot  of  sweet 
herbs,  consisting  of  savoury,  thyme, 
basil,  and  knotted  marjoram,  also 
a  little  parsley,  and  sliced  horse- 
radish. On  these  pour  half  a  pint 
of  the  best  sherry,  and  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  strong  gravy.  Simmer  all 
gently  for  twenty  minutes,  then 
strain.it  through  a  sieve,  and  bottle 
it  for  use.  .The  way  of  using  it  is, 
to  boil  some  of  it  in  the  butter  while 
melting. 

FLANNELS.     In  order  to  make 
flannels  keep  their  colour  and  not 


shrink,  put  them  into  a  pail,  and 
pour  on  boiling  water.  Let  them  lie 
till  cold,  before  they  are  washed. 

FLAT  BEER.  Much  loss  is  fre- 
quently sustained  from  beer  grow- 
ing flat,  during  the  time  of  drawing. 
To  prevent  this,  suspend  a  pint  or 
more  of  ground  malt  in  it,  tied  up  in 
a  large  bag,  and  keep  the  bung  well 
closed.  The  beer  will  not  then  be- 
come vapid,  but  rather  improve  the 
whole  time  it  is  in  use. 

FLAT  CAKES.  Mix  two  pounds 
of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and 
one  ounce  of  carraways,  with  four 
or  five  eggs,  and  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
water.  Make  all  into  a  stiff"  paste, 
roll  it  out  thin,  cut  it  into  any  shape, 
and  bake  on  tins  lightly  floured. 
While  baking,  boil  to  a  thin  syrup  a 
pound  of  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water. 
When  both  are  hot,  dip  each  cake 
into  the  syrup,  and  place  them  on 
tins  to  dry  in  the  oven  for  a  short 
time.  When  the  oven  is  a  little 
cooler,  return  them  into  it,  and  let 
them  remain  there  four  or  five  hours. 
Cakes  made  in  this  way  will  keep 
good  for  a  long  time. 

FLAT  FISH.  Flounders,  plaice, 
soles,  and  other  kinds  of  flat  fish, 
are  good  boiled.  Cut  oflf  the  fins, 
draw  and  clean  them  well,  dry  them 
with  a  cloth,  and  boil  them  in  salt 
and  water.  When  the  fins  draw  out 
easily,  they  are  done  enough.  Serve 
them  with  shrimp,  cockle,  or  mus- 
tard sauce,  and  garnish  with  red 
cabbage. 

FLATULENCY.  Wind  in  the 
stomach,  accompanied  with  pain,  is 
frequently  occasioned  by  eating  fla- 
tulent vegetables,  or  fat  meat,  with 
large  draughts  of  beverage  immedi 
ately  afterwards,  which  turn  ranciv. 
on  the  stomach ;  and  of  course, 
these  ought  to  be  avoided.  Hot  tea, 
turbid  beer,  and  feculent  liquors 
will  have  the  same  eff"ect.  A  phleg- 
matic constitution,  or  costiveness, 
will  render  the  complaint  more  fre- 
quent and  painful.  Gentle  laxatives 
and  a  careful  diet  are  the  best 
127 


ELI 


TLO 


remedy  ;  but  hot  aromatics  and  spi- 
rituous liquors  should  be  avoided. 

FLEAS.  Want  of  cleanliness  re- 
markably contributes  to  the  produc- 
tion of  these  offensive  insects.  The 
females  of  this  tribe  deposit  their 
eggs  in  damp  and  filthy  places,  with- 
in the  crevices  of  boards,  and  on 
rubbish,  when  they  emerge  in  the 
form  of  fleas  in  about  a  month. 
Cleanliness,  and  frequent  sprinkling 
of  the  room  with  a  simple  decoction 
of  wormwood,  will  soon  exterminate 
the  whole  breed  of  these  disagree- 
able vermin  ;  and  the  best  remedy 
to  expel  them  from  bed  clothes  is  a 
bag  filled  with  dry  moss,  the  odour 
of  which  is  to  them  extremely  of- 
fensive. Fumigation  with  brimstone, 
or  the  fresh  leaves  of  pennyroyal 
sewed  in  a  bag,  and  laid  in  the  bed, 
will  also  have  the  desired  effect. 
Dogs  and  cats  may  be  effectually 
secured  from  the  persecutions  of 
these  vermin,  by  occasionally  anoint- 
ing their  skin  with  sweet  oil,  or  oil 
of  turpentine;  or  by  rubbing  into 
their  coats  some  Scotch  snuff.  But 
if  they  be  at  all  mangy,  or  their  skin 
broken,  the  latter  would  be  very 
painful  and  improper. 

FLIES.  If  a  room  be  swarming 
with  these  noisome  insects,  the  most 
ready  way  of  expelling  them  is  to 
fumigate  the  apartment  with  the 
dried  leaves  of  the  gourd.  If  the 
window  be  opened,  the  smoke  will 
instantly  drive  them  out :  or  if  the 
room  be  close,  it  will  suft'ocate  them. 
But  in  the  latter  case,  no  person 
should  remain  within  doors,  as  the 
fume  is  apt  to  occasion  the  head- 
ache. Another  way  is  to  dissolve 
two  drams  of  the  extract  of  quassia 
in  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water  ;  and, 
adding  a  little  sugar  or  syrup,  pour 
the  mixture  upon  plates.  The  flies 
are  extremely  partial  to  this  en- 
ticing food,  and  it  never  fails  to  de- 
stroy them.  Camphor  placed  near 
any  kind  of  provision  will  protect  it 
from  the  flies. 

FLIP.     To  make  a  quart  of  flip, 
128 


put  the  ale  on  the  fire  to  warm,  and 
beat  up  three  or  four  eggs,  with 
four  ounces  of  moist  sugar.  Add  a 
tea-spoonful  of  grated  nutmeg  or 
ginger,  and  a  quartern  of  good  old 
rum  or  brandy.  When  the  ale  is 
nearly  boiling,  put  it  into  one  pit- 
cher, and  the  rum  and  eggs  into 
another  :  turn  it  from  one  pitcher 
to  another,  till  it  is  as  smooth  as 
cream.     ^ 

FLOATING  ISLAND.  Mix  three 
half  pints  of  thin  cream  with  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  raisin  wine,  a  little 
lemon  juice,  orange  flower  water, 
and  sugar.  Put  it  into  a  dish  for 
the  middle  of  the  table,  and  lay  on 
with  a  spoon  the  following  froth 
ready  prepared.  Sweeten  half  a 
pound  of  raspberry  or  currant  jel- 
ly, add  to  it  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
beaten,  and  beat  up  the  jelly  to  a 
froth,  until  it  will  take  any  form  you 
please.  It  should  be  raised  high, 
to  represent  a  castle  or  a  rock. — 
Another  way.  Scald  a  codlin  be- 
fore it  be  ripe,  or  any  other  sharp 
apple,  and  pulp  it  through  a  sieve. 
Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with 
sugar,  and  a  spoonful  of  orange  flow- 
er water ;  mix  in  the  pulp  by  de- 
grees, and  beat  all  together  till  it 
produces  a  large  quantity  of  froth. 
Serve  it  on  a  raspberry  cream,  or 
colour  the?  froth  with  beet  root,  rasp- 
berry, or  currant  jelly,  and  set  it  on 
a  white  cream,  which  has  already 
been  flavoured  with  lemon,  sugar, 
and  raisin  wine.  The  froth  may  also 
be  laid  on  a  custard. 

FLOOR  CLOTHS.  The  best  are 
such  as  are  painted  on  a  fine  cloth, 
well  covered  with  colour,  and  where 
the  flowers  do  not  rise  much  above 
the  ground,  as  they  wear  out  first. 
The  durability  of  the  cloth  will  de- 
pend much  on  these  two  particulars, 
but  more  especially  on  the  time  it  has 
been  painted,  and  the  goodness  of  the 
colours.  If  they  have  not  been  al- 
lowed sufllicient  space  for  becoming 
thoroughly  hardened,  a  very  little  use 
will  injure  them :  and  as  they  aye  very 


FLO 


FLO 


expensive  articles,  care  is  necessary 
in  preserving  them.  It  answers  to 
keep  them  some  time  before  they 
are  used,  either  hung-  up  in  a  dry 
airy  place,  or  laid  down  in  a  spare 
room.  When  taken  up  for  the  win- 
ter, they  should  be  rolled  round  a 
carpet  roller,  and  care  taken  not  to 
crack  the  paint  by  turning  in  the 
edges  too  suddenly.  Old  carpets 
answer  quite  well,  painted  and  sea- 
soned some  months  before  they  are 
laid  down.  If  intended  for  pas- 
sages, the  width  must  be  directed 
when  they  are  sent  to  the  manufac- 
tory, as  they  are  cut  before  painting. 

FLOOR  CLOTHS  CLEANED. 
Sweep  them  first,  then  wipe  them 
with  a  flannel ;  and  when  the  dust 
and  spots  are  removed,  rub  with  a 
wax  flannel,  and  dry  them  with  a 
plain  one.  Use  but  little  w£w,  and 
rub  only  with  the  latter  to  give  a 
iittle  smoothness,  or  it  will  make 
the  floor  cloth  slippery,  and  endan- 
ger falling.  Washing  now  and  then 
^ith  milk,  after  the  above  sweeping 
and  dry  rubbing,  will  give  as  good 
an  appearance,  and  render  the  floor 
cloths  less  slippery. 

FLOUNDERS.  These  are  both 
sea  and  river  fish  :  the  Thames  pro- 
duces the  best.  They  are  in  season 
from  January  to  March,  and  from 
July  to  September.  Their  fles-h 
should  be  thick  and  firm,  and  their 
eyes  bright :  they  very  soon  become 
flabby  and  bad.  Before  they  are 
dressed,  they  should  be  rubbed  with 
salt  inside  and  out,  and  lie  two  hours 
to  acquire  firmness.  Then  dip  them 
in  eggs,  cover  with  grated  bread,  and 
fry  them. 

FLOUR.  Good  wheat  flour  may 
be  known  by  the  quantity  of  gluti- 
nous matter  it  contains,  and  which 
will  appear  when  kneaded  into 
dough.  For  this  purpose  take  four 
ounces  of  fine  flour,  mix  it  with  wa- 
ter, and  work  it  together  till  it  forms 
a  thick  paste.  The  paste  is  then 
to  be  well  washed  and  kneaded  with 
the  hands  under  the  water,  and  the 


water  to  be  renewed  till  it  ceases  to 
become  white  by  the  operation.  If 
the  flour  be  sound,  the  paste  which 
remains  will  be  glutinous  and  elas- 
tic, and  brittle  after  it  has  been 
baked. — Adulterated  meal  and  flour 
are  generally  whiter  and  heavier 
than  the  good,  and  may  be  detected 
in  a  way  similar  to  that  already 
mentioned,  under  the  article  Adul- 
terations. Or  pour  boiling  wa- 
ter on  some  slices  of  bread,  and 
drop  on  it  some  spirits  of  vitriol. 
Put  them  in  the  flour ;  and  if  it  con- 
tain any  quantity  of  whiting,  chalk, 
or  lime,  a  fermentation  will  ensue. 
Vitriol  alone,  dropped  on  adulterated 
bread  or  flour,  will  produce  a  similar 
effect. — American  flour  requires 
nearly  twice  as  much  water  to  make 
it  into  bread  as  is  used  for  English 
flour,  and  therefore  it  is  more  pro- 
fitable. Fourteen  pounds  of  Ame- 
rican flour  will  make  twenty-one 
pounds  and  a  half  of  bread,  while 
the  best  sort  of  English  flour  pro- 
duces only  eighteen  pounds  and  a 
half. 

FLOUR  CAUDLE.  Into  five 
large  spoonfuls  of  pure  water,  rub 
smooth  one  dessert-spoonful  of  fine 
flour.  Set  over  the  fire  five  spoon- 
fuls of  new  milk,  and  put  into  it  two 
pieces  of  sugar.  The  moment  it 
boils,  pour  into  it  the  flour  and  wa- 
ter, and  stir  it  over  a  slow  fireiwenty 
minutes.  It  is  a  nourishing  and 
gently  astringent  food,  and  excel- 
lent for  children  who  have  weak 
bowels. 

FLOWER  GARDEN.  The  plea- 
sures of  the  garden  are  ever  various, 
ever  new  ;  and  in  every  month  of 
the  year  some  attention  is  demand- 
ed, either  in  rearing  the  tender 
plant,  in  preparing  the  soil  for  its 
reception,  or  protecting  the  parent 
root  from  the  severity  of  the  win- 
ter's blast.  Ranunculuses,  anemo- 
nes, tulips,  and  other  bulbous  roots, 
if  not  taken  up,  will  be  in  great 
danger  from  the  frost,  and  their 
shoots  in  the  spring  will  either  be 

s  129 


FLO 


FLdP 


impaired,  or  totally  destroyed. 

January.  Cover  the  flower  beds 
with  wheat  straw,  to  protect  them 
from  the  cold  ;  but  where  the  shoots 
begin  to  appear,  place  behind  them 
a  reed  edge,  sloping  three  feet  for- 
ward. A  mat  is  to  be  let  down  from 
the  top  in  severe  weather,  and  taken 
up  when  it  is  mild.  This  will  pre- 
serve them,  without  making  them 
weak  or  sickly.  The  beds  and  boxes 
of  seedling  flowers  should  also  be 
covered,  and  the  fence  removed 
when  the  weather  is  mild.  Clean 
the  auricula  plants,  pick  off"  dead 
leaves,  and  scrape  away  the  surface 
of  the  mould.  Replenish  them  with 
some  that  is  fine  and  fresh,  set  the 
pots  up  to  the  brim  in  the  mould  of 
a  dry  bed,  and  place  behind  them  a 
reed  edging.  Cover  carnation  plants 
from   wet,   and   defend  them  from 

juice  and  sparrows. February. 

Make  hotbeds  for  annual  flowers, 
of  the  dung  reserved  for  that  pur- 
pose, and  sow  them  upon  a  good 
thickness  of  mould,  laid  regularly 
over  the  dung.  Transplant  peren- 
nial flowers,  and  hardy  shrubs,  Can- 
terbury bells,  lilacs,  and  the  like. 
Break  up  and  new  lay  the  gravel 
walks.  Weed,  rake,  and  clean  the 
borders  ;  and  where  the  box  of  the 
edging  is  decayed,  make  it  up  with 
a  fresh  plantation.  Sow  auricula 
and  polyanthus  seeds  in  boxes,  made 
of  rcttigh  boards  six  inches  deep, 
with  holes  at  the  bottom  to  run  oft' 
the  water.  Fill  the  boxes  with  light 
mould,  scatter  the  seeds  thinly  over 
the  surface,  sift  some  more  mould 
over  them  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  place  them  where  they 
may  enjoy  the  morning  sun.  Plant 
out  carnations  into  pots  for  flower- 
ing.  March.     Watch  the  beds 

of  tender  flowers,  and  throw  mats 
over  them,  supported  by  hoops,  in 
hard  weather.  Continue  transplant- 
ing all  the  perennial  fibrous  rooted 
flowers,  such  as  golden-rods,  and 
sweet-williams.  Dig  up  the  earth 
with  a  shovel  about  tliose  which 
180 


were  planted  in  autumn,  and  cleaH 
the  ground  between  them.  All  the 
pots  of  flowering  plants  must  now 
be  dressed.  Pick  oft'  dead  leaves, 
remove  the  earth  at  the  top,  and  put 
fresh  instead;  then  give  them  a 
gentle  watering,  and  set  them  in 
their  places  for  flowering.  Be  care-»" 
ful  that  the  roots  are  not  wounded^ 
and  repeat  the  watering  once  in 
three  days.  The  third  week  in  March 
is  the  time  to  sow  sweet  peas,  pop- 
pies, catchflies,  and  all  the  hardy 
annual  plants.  The  last  week  is 
proper  for  transplanting  evergreens, 
and  a  showery  day  should  be  chosen 
for  the  purpose.  Hotbeds  should 
now  be  made,  to  receive  the  seed- 
lings of  annual  flowers  raised  in  the 

former    bed. April.      Tie   up 

to  sticks  the  stalks  of  tall  flowers, 
cut  tlue  sticks  about  two  feet  long, 
thrust  them  eight  inches  into  the 
ground,  and  hide  them  among  the 
leaves.  Clean  and  rake  the  ground 
between  them.  Take  off"  the  slips 
of  auriculas,  and  plant  them  out 
carefully  for  an  increase.  Trans- 
plant perennial  flowers  and  ever- 
greens, as  in  the  former  months  ; 
take  up  the  roots  of  colchichams, 
and  other  autumnal  bulbous  plants. 
Sow  French  honeysuckles,  wall- 
flowers, and  other  hardy  plants,  up- 
on the  natural  ground,  and  the  more 
tender  sorts  on  hotbeds.  Trans- 
plant those  sown  last  month,  into 
the  second  hotbed.  Sow  carnations 
and  pinks  on  the  natural  ground,  and 
on  open  borders. — — May.  When 
the  leaves  of  sowbreads  are  decay- 
ed, take  up  the  roots,  and  lay  them 
by  carefully  till  the  time  of  planting. 
Take  up  the  hyacinth  roots  which 
have  done  flowering,  and  lay  them 
sideways  in  abed  of  dry  rich  mould, 
leaving  the  stems  and  leaves  to  die 
away  :  this  will  greatly  strengthen 
the  roots.  Roll  the  gravel  walks 
carefully  and  frequentlyj  and  keep 
the  grass  clean  mowed.  Clean  all 
the  borders  from  weeds,  take  off  the 
straggling  branches  from  .^e., large 


FLO 


tFLO 


flowering  plants,  and  train  them  up 
in  a  handsome  shape.  Plant  out 
French  and  Affican  marigolds  from 
the  hotbeds,  with  other  autumnals, 
the  last  week  of  this  month,  choos- 
ing a  cloudy  warm  day.  Tie  up  the 
stalks  of  carnations,  pot  the  tender 
annuals,  such  as  balsams  and  ama- 
ranths, and  set  them  in  a  hotbed 
frame,  till  summer  is  more  advanced 
for  planting  them  in  the  open  ground . 

June.     Choose  the  evening  of 

a  mild  showery  day,  and  plant  out 
into  the  open  ground,  the  tender  an- 
nuals hitherto  kept  in  pots  in  the 
hotbed  frame.  They  must  be  care- 
fully loosened  from  the  sides  of  the 
pot,  and  taken  out  with  all  the  mould 
about  them ;  a  large  hole  must  be 
opened  for  each,  to  set  them  up- 
right in  it ;  and  when  settled  in  the 
ground  by  gentle  watering,  they 
must  be  tied  up  to  sticks.  Let 
pinks,  carnations,  and  sweet-wil- 
liams, be  laid  this  month  for  an  in- 
crease. Let  the  layers  be  covered 
lightly,  and  gently  watered  every 
other  day.  Spring  flowers  being 
now  over,  and  their  leaves  faded, 
the  roots  must  be  taken  up,  and  laid 
by  for  planting  again  at  a  proper 
season.  Snow-drops, winter-aconite, 
and  such  sorts,  are  to  be  thus  ma- 
naged. The  hyacinth  roots,  laid 
flat  in  the  ground,  must  now  be 
taken  up,  and  the  dead  leaves  clip- 
ped off*;  and  when  cleared  from  the 
mould,  they  must  be  spread  upon  a 
mat  in  an  airy  room  to  dry,  and  laid 
by  for  future  planting.  Tulip  roots 
also  must  now  be  taken  up,  as  the 
leaves  decay  :  anemones  and  ranun- 
culuses are  treated  in  the  same  man- 
ner. Cut  in  three  or  four  places, 
the  cups  or  poles  of  the  carnations 
that  are  near  blowing,  that  they 
may  show  regularly.  At  the  same 
time  inoculate  some  of  the  fine  kind 
of  roses. July.  Clip  box  edg- 
ings, cut  and  trim  hedges,  look  over 
all  the  borders,  clear  them  from 
weeds,  and  stir  up  the  mould  be- 
tween the  plants.     Roll  the  gravel 


frequently,  and  mow  the  grass  plats. 
Inoculate  roses  and  jasmines  that 
require  this  kind  of  propagation, 
and  any  of  the  other  flowering 
shrubs.  Gather  the  seeds  of  flowers 
intended  to  be  propagated,  and  lay 
them  upon  a  shelf  in  an  airy  room 
in  the  pods.  When  they  are  well 
hardened,  tie  them  up  in  paper 
bags,  but  do  not  take  them  out  of 
the  pods  till  they  are  wanted.  Lay 
pinks  and  sweet-williams  in  the  earth 
as  formerly,  cut  down  the  stalks  of 
those  plants  which  have  done  flow- 
ering, and  which  are  not  kept  for 
seed.  Tie  up  with  sticks  such  as 
are  coming  into  flower,  as  for  the 
earlier  kinds.  Sow  lupins,  lark- 
spurs, and  similar  sorts,  on  dry 
warm  borders,  to  stand  the  winter, 
and  flower  early  next  year. — ' — 
August.  Dig  up  a  mellow  border, 
and  draw  lines  at  five  inches  dis- 
tance, lengthways  and  across.  In 
the  centre  of  these  squares,  plant 
the  seedling  polyanthuses,  one  in 
each  square.  In  the  same  manner 
plant  out  the  seedling  auriculas. 
Shade  them  till  they  have  taken 
root,  and  water  them  once  a  day. 
See  whether  the  layers  of  sweet- 
williams,  carnations,  and  such  like, 
have  taken  root ;  transplant  such 
as  are  rooted,  and  give  frequent 
gentle  waterings  to  the  others  in  or- 
der to  promote  it.  Cut  down  the 
stalks  of  plants  that  have  done  flow- 
ering, saving  the  seed  that  may  be 
wanted,  as  it  ripens,  and  water  the 
tender  annuals  every  evening.  Sow 
anemones  and  ranunculuses,  tulip, 
and  narcissus  seed.  Dig  up  a  bor- 
der for  early  tulip  roots,  and  others 
for  hyacinths,  anemones,  and  ranun- 
culuses. Sow  annuals  to  stand 
through  the  winter,  and  shift  au- 
riculas into  fresh  pots. Septem- 
ber. During  this  month,  prepara- 
tion should  be  made  for  the  next 
season.  Tear  up  the  annuals  that 
have  done  flowering,  and  cut  down 
such  perennials  as  are  past  their 
beauty.  Bring  in  other  perennials 
131 


FLO 


FLO 


from  the  nursery  beds,  and  plant 
them  with  care  at  regular  distances. 
Take  up  the  box  edgings  where  they 
have  outgrown  their  proper  size, 
and  part  and  plant  them  afresh. 
Plant  tulip  and  other  flower  roots, 
slip  polyanthuses,  and  place  them 
in  rich  shady  borders.  Sow  the 
seeds  of  flower  de  luce  and  crown 
imperial,  as  also  of  auriculas  and  po- 
lyanthuses, according  to  the  method 
before  recommended.  Part  oft'  the 
roots  of  flower  de  luce,  piony,  and 
others  of  a  similar  kind.  In  the 
last  week  transplant  hardy  flower- 
ing shrubs,  and  they  will  be  strong 

the    next    summer. October. 

Let  all  the  bulbous  roots  for  spring 
flowering  be  put  into  the  ground ; 
narcissus,  maragon,  tulips,  and  such 
ranunculuses  and  anemones  as  were 
not  planted  soon«r.  Transplant 
columbines,  monkshood,  and  all 
kinds  of  fibrous  rooted  perennials. 
Place  under  shelter  the  auriculas 
and  carnations  that  are  in  pots.  Dig 
up  a  dry  border,  and  if  not  dry 
enough,  dig  in  some  sand,  and  set 
in  the  pots  up  to  the  brim.  Place 
the  reed  fence  sloping  behind  them, 
and  fasten  a  mat  to  its  top,  that 
may  be  let  down  in  bad  weather. 
Take  oflf  the  dead  leaves  of  the  au- 
riculas, before  they  are  thus  planted. 
Bring  into  the  garden  some  fresh 
flowering  shrubs,  wherever  they  may 
be  wanted,  and  at  the  end  of  the 
month  prune  some  of  the  hardier 

kind. >JovEMBER.     Prepare   a 

good  heap  of  pasture  ground,  with 
the  turf  among  it,  to  rot  into  mould 
for  the  borders.  Transplant  honey- 
suckles and  spireas,  with  other 
hardy  flowering  shrubs.  Rake  over 
the  beds  of  seedling  flowers,  and 
strew  some  peas  straw  over  to  keep 
out  the  frost.  Cut  down  the  stems 
of  perennials  which  have  done  flow- 
ering, pull  up  annuals  that  are  spent, 
and  rake  and  clear  the  ground. 
Place  hoops  over  the  beds  of  ranun- 
culuses and  anemones,  and  lay  mats 
or  cloths  in  readiness  to  draw  over 
132 


them,  in  case  of  hard  rains  or  frost. 
Clean  up  the  borders  in  all  parts  of 
the  garden,  and  take  care  to  destroy 
not  only  the  weeds,  but  all  kinds  of 
moss.  Look  over  the  seeds  of  those 
flowei^  which  were  gathered  in  sum- 
mer, to  see  that  they  are  dry  and 
sweet ;  and  prepare  a  border  or  two 
for  the  hardier  kind,  by  digging  and 

cleaning. December.     During 

frost  or  cold  rain,  draw  the  mats 
and  cloths  over  the  ranunculuses; 
give  the  anemones  a  little  air  in  the 
middle  of  every  tolerable  day  ;  and 
as  soon  as  possible,  uncover  them 
all  day,  but  draw  on  the  mats  at 
night.  Throw  up  the  earth  where 
flowering  shrubs  are  to  be  planted 
in  the  spring,  and  turn  it  once  a 
fortnight.  Dig  up  the  borders  that 
are  to  receive  flower  roots  in  the 
spring,  and  give  them  the  advantage 
of  a  fallow,  by  throwing  up  the 
ground  in  a  ridge.  Scatter  over  it 
a  very  little  rotten  dung  from  a 
melon  bed,  and  afterwards  turn  it 
twice  during  the  winter.  Examine 
the  flowering  shrubs,  and  prune 
them.  Cut  away  all  the  dead  wood, 
shorten  luxuriant  branches,  and  if 
any  cross  each  other,  take  away 
one.  Leave  them  so  that  the  ais 
may  have  a  free  passage  between 
them.  Sift  a  quarter  of  an  inch  of 
good  fresh  mould  over  the  roots 
of  perennial  flowers,  whose  stalks 
have  been  cut  down,  and  then  i-ake 
over  the  borders.  This  will  give 
the  whole  an  air  of  culture  and  good 
management,  which  is  always  pleas- 
ing. 

FLOWER  POTS.  As  flowers 
and  plants  should  enjoy  a  free  cir- 
culation of  air  to  make  them  grow 
well,  sitting  rooms  are  not  very  well 
adapted  to  the  purpose,  unless  they 
could  be  frequently  ventilated  by 
opening  the  doors  and  windows. 
In  every  severe  frost  or  damp  wea- 
ther, moderate  fires  should  be  made 
in  the  rooms  where  the  plants  are 
placed,  and  the  shutters  closed  at 
night.     Placing  saucers  under  th« 


FLU 


FOO 


pots,  and  pouring  water  continually 
into  them,  is  highly  improper:  it 
should  be  poured  on  the  mould,  that 
it  may  filter  through  it,  and  thereby 
refresh  the  fibres  of  the  plant.  Many 
kinds  of  annuals,  sown  in  March 
and  the  beginning  of  April,  may  be 
transplanted  into  pots  about  the  end 
of  May,  and  should  be  frequently 
watered  till  they  have  taken  root. 
If  transplanted  in  the  summer  sea- 
son, the  evening  is  the  proper  time, 
and  care  must  be  taken  not  to  break 
the  fibres  of  the  root.  When  the 
plants  are  attacked  by  any  kind  of 
crawling  insects,  the  evil  may  be 
prevented  by  keeping  the  saucers 
full  of  water,  so  as  to  form  a  river 
round  the  pot,  and  rubbing  some 
oil  round  the  side.  Oil  is  fatal  to 
most  kinds  of  insects,  and  but  few 
of  them  can  endure  it, 

FLOWER  SEEDS.  When  the 
seeds  begin  to  ripen  they  should  be 
supported  with  sticks,  to  prevent 
their  being  scattered  by  the  wind  ; 
and  in  wet  weather  they  should  be 
removed  to  a  dry  place,  and  rubbed 
out  when  convenient.  August  is  in 
general  the  proper  time  for  gather- 
ing flower  seeds,  but  many  kinds 
will  ripen  much  sooner.  To  ascer- 
tain whether  the  seed  be  fully  ripe, 
put  a  little  of  it  into  water  :  if  it  be 
come  to  maturity,  it  will  sink  to  the 
bottom,  and  if  not  it  will  swim  upon 
the  surface.  To  preserve  them  for 
vegetation,  it  is  only  necessary  to 
wrap  the  seed  up  in  cartridge  paper, 
pasted  down  and  varnished  over 
with  gum,  or  the  white  of  an  egg. 
Some  kinds  of  seeds  are  best  en- 
closed in  sealing  wax. 

FLUMMERY.  Steep  in  cold  wa- 
ter, for  a  day  and  a  night,  three  large 
handfuls  of  very  fine  white  oatmeal. 
Pour  it  off  clear,  add  as  much  more 
water,  and  let  it  stand  the  same 
time.  Strain  it  through  a  fine  hair 
sieve,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  as  thick 
as  hasty  pudding,  stirring  it  well  all 
the  time.  When  first  strained,  put 
to  it  one   large  spoonful  of  white 


sugar,  and  two  of  orange  flower  \f  a- 
ter.  Pour  it  into  shallow  dishes, 
and  serve  it  wp  with  wine,  cider, 
and  milk  ;  or  it  will  be  very  good 
with  cream  and  sugar. 

FOMENTATIONS.  Boil  two 
ounces  each  of  camomile  flowers, 
and  the  tops  of  wormwood,  in  two 
quarts  of  water.  Pour  oflf  the  liquor, 
put  it  on  the  fire  again,  dip  in  a 
piece  of  flannel,  and  apply  it  to  the 
part  as  hot  as  the  patient  can  bear 
it.  When  it  grows  cold,  heat  it  up 
again,  dip  in  another  piece  of  flan- 
nel, apply  it  as  the  first,  and  con- 
tinue changing  them  as  often  as  they 
get  cool,  taking  care  not  to  let  the 
air  get  to  the  part  aff'ected  when 
the  flannel  is  changed. — To  relieve 
the  toothache,  pain  in  the  face,  or 
any  other  acute  pain,  the  following 
anodyne  fomentation  may  be  ap- 
plied. Take  two  ounces  of  white 
poppy  heads,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
elder  flowers,  and  boil  them  in  three 
pints  of  water,  till  it  is  reduced  one 
third.  Strain  oflf  the  liquor,  and 
foment  the  part  aflfectedr 

FOOD.  In  the  early  ages  of  the 
world,  mankind  were  chiefly  sup- 
ported by  berries,  roots,  and  such 
other  vegetables  as  the  earth  pro- 
duced of  itself,  according  to  the 
original  grant  of  the  great  Proprietor 
of  all  things.  In  later  ages,  espe- 
cially after  the  flood,  this  grant  was 
enlarged  ;  and  man  had  recourse  to 
animals,  as  well  as  to  vegetables 
artificially  raised  for  their  support, 
while  the  art  of  preparing  food  has 
been  brought  to  the  highest  degree 
of  perfection.  Vegetables  are  how- 
ever, with  a  few  exceptions,  more 
difiicult  of  digestion  than  animal 
food  ;  but  a  due  proportion  of  both, 
with  the  addition  of  acids,  is  the 
most  conducive  to  health,  as  well 
as  agreeable  to  the  palate.  Animal 
as  well  as  vegetable  food  may  be 
rendered  unwholesome  by  being 
kept  too  long ;  and  when  oflfens^ive 
to  the  senses,  they  become  alike  in- 
jurious to  health.  Diseased  animals, 
138 


FOO 


FO  O 


and  such  as  die  of  themselves,  ought 
never  to  be  eaten.  Such  as  are  fed 
grossly,  stalled  cattle  and  pigs, 
without  any  exercise,  do  not  afford 
food  so  nourishing  or  wholesome  as 
others.  Salt  meat  is  not  so  easily 
digested  as  fresh  provisions,  and 
has  a  tendency  to  produce  putrid 
diseases,  especially  the  scurvy.  If 
vegetables  and  milk  were  more  used, 
there  would  be  less  scurvy,  and 
fewer  inflammatory  fevers.  Our 
food  ought  neither  to  be  too  moist, 
nor  too  dry.  Liquid  food  relaxes 
and  renders  the  body  feeble  :  hence 
those  who  live  much  on  tea,  and 
other  watery  diet,  generally  become 
weak,  and  unable  to  digest  solid 
food..  They  are  also  liable  to  hys- 
terics* with  a  train  of  other  nervous 
affections.  But  if  the  food  be  too 
dry,  it  disposes  the  body  to  inflam- 
matory disorders,  and  is  equally  to 
be  avoided.  Families  would  do 
well  to  prepare  their  own  diet  and 
drink,  as  much  as  possible,  in  order 
to  render  it  good  and  wholesome. 
Bread  in  particular  is  so  necessary 
a  part  of  daily  food,  that  too  much 
care  cannot  be  taken  to  see  that  it 
be  made  of  sound  grain  duly  pre- 
pared, and  kept  from  all  unwhole- 
some ingredients.  Those  who  make 
bread  for  sale,  seek  rather  to  please 
the  eye  than  to  promote  health. 
The  best  bread  is  that  which  is  nei- 
ther too  coarse  nor  too  fine,  well 
fermented,  and  made  of  wheat  flour, 
or  wheat  and  rye  mixed  together. 
Good  fermented  liquors,  neither  too 
weak  nor  too  strong,  are  to  be  pre- 
ferred. If  too  weak,  they  require 
to  be  drunk  soon,  and  then  they 
produce  wind  and  flatulencies  in  the 
stomach.  If  kept  too  long,  they 
turn  sour,  and  then  become  unwhole- 
some. On  the  other  hand,  strong 
liquor,  by  hurting  the  digestion, 
tends  to  weaken  and  relax  :  it  also 
keeps  up  a  constant  fever,  which 
exhausts  the  spirits,  inflames  the 
blood,  and  disposes  the  body  to 
numberless  diseases  Beer,  cider, 
134 


and  other  family  liquors,  should  be 
of  such  strength  as  to  keep  till  they 
are  ripe,  and  then  they  should  be 
used.  Persons  of  a  weak  and  re- 
laxed habit  should  avoid  every  thing 
hard  of  digestion  :  their  diet  re- 
quires to  be  light  and  nourishing, 
and  they  should  take  suflicient  ex- 
ercise in  the  open  air.  Those  wha 
abound  with  blood,  should  abstain 
from  rich  wines  and  highly  nourish- 
ing food,  and  live  chiefly  on  vege- 
tables. Corpulent  persons  ought 
frequently  to  use  radish,  garlic,  or 
such  things  as  promote  perspiration. 
Their  drink  should  be  tea,  coffee, 
or  the  like  ;  they  ought  also  to  take 
much  exercise,  and  but  little  sleep. 
Those  who  are  of  a  thin  habit,  should 
follow  the  opposite  course.  Such 
as  are  troubled  with  sour  risings  in 
the  stomach,  should  live  chiefly  o» 
animal  food  ;  and  those  who  are  af- 
flicted with  hot  risings  and  heart- 
burn, should  have  a  diet  of  acid 
vegetables.  Persons  of  low  spirits, 
and  subject  to  nervous  disorders, 
should  avoid  all  flatulent  food,  what- 
ever is  hard  of  digestion,  or  apt  to 
turn  sour  on  the  stomach.  Their 
diet  should  be  light,  cool,  and  of  an 
opening  nature  ;  not  only  suited  to 
the  age  and  constitution,  but  also  to 
the  manner  of  life.  A  sedentary 
person  should  live  more  sparingly 
than  one  who  labours  hard  without 
doors,  and  those  who  are  aflSicted 
with  any  particular  disease  ought  to 
avoid  such  aliment  as  has  a  tendency 
to  increase  it.  Those  aflHicted  with 
the  gravel  ought  to  avoid  every  thing 
astringent ;  and  the  scorbutic  of 
every  description,  salted  or  smoked 
provisions.  In  the  first  period  of 
life,  the  food  should  be  light,  but 
nourishing,  and  frequently  taken. 
For  infants  in  particular,  it  ought 
to  be  adapted  to  their  age,  and  the 
strength  of  their  digestive  powers. 
No  food  whatever  that  has  been  pre- 
pared for  many  hours  should  be 
given  them,  especially  after  being 
warmed  up ;  for  it  creates  flatulence^ 


FLO 


FLO 


heartburn,  and  a  variety  of  other 
disorders.  Sudden  changes  from 
liquid  to  solid  food  should  be  avoid- 
ed, as  well  as  a  multiplicity  of  dif- 
ferent kinds ;  and  all  stimulating 
dishes  and  heating  liquors,  prepared 
for  adults,  should  be  carefully  with- 
held from  children.  The  common 
but  indecent  practice  of  introducing 
chewed  victuals  into  their  mouth, 
is  equally  disgusting  and  unwhole- 
some. Solid  food  is  most  proper 
for  the  state  of  manhood,  but  it 
ought  not  to  be  too  uniform.  Nature 
has  provided  a  great  variety  for  the 
use  of  man,  and  given  him  an  appe- 
tite suited  to  that  variety  :  the  con- 
stant use  of  one  kind  of  food  there- 
fore is  not  good  for  the  constitution, 
though  any  great  or  sudden  change 
in  diet  ought  as  well  to  be  avoided. 
The  change  should  be  gradual,  as 
any  sudden  transition  from  a  low  to 
a  rich  and  luxurious  mode  of  living, 
may  endanger  health,  and  even  life 
itself.  The  diet  suited  to  the  last 
period  of  life,  when  nature  is  on  the 
decline,  approaches  nearly  to  that 
of  the  first :  it  should  be  light  and 
nourishing,  and  more  frequently 
taken  than  in  vigorous  age.  Old 
people  are  generally  afflicted  with 
wind,  giddiness,  and  headachs, 
which  are  frequently  occasioned  by 
fasting  too  long,  and  even  many 
sudden  deaths  arise  from  the  same 
cause.  The  stomach  therefore 
should  never  be  allowed  in  any  case 
to  be  too  long  empty,  but  especially 
in  the  decline  of  life.  Proper  atten- 
tion to  diet  is  of  the  utmost  im- 
portance, not  only  to  the  preserva- 
tion of  health,  but  in  the  cure  of 
many  diseases,  which  may  be  effect- 
ed by  diet  only.  Its  effects  indeed 
are  not  always  so  quick  as  those  of 
medicine,  but  they  are  generally 
more  lasting,  and  are  obtained  with 
greater  ease  and  certainty.  Tem- 
perance and  exercise  are  the  two 
best  physicians  in  the  world  ;  and 
if  they  were  duly  regarded,  there 
would  be  little  occasion  for  any  other. 


FOOD  FOR  BIRDS.  An  excel- 
lent food  for  linnets,  canaries,  and 
other  singing  birds,  may  be  prepared 
in  the  following  manner.  Knead 
together  one  pound  of  split  peas 
ground  to  flour,  half  a  pound  each 
of  coarse  sugar  .and  fine  grated 
bread,  two  ounces  of  unsalted  but- 
ter, and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Brown  the  paste  gently  in  a  frying- 
pan,  and  when  cold  mix  with  it  two 
ounces  of  mace  seed,  and  two  pounds 
of  bruised  hemp  seed,  separated 
from  the  husk.  This  paste  given  to 
birds  in  small  quantities  will  pre- 
serve them  in  health,  and  prompt 
them  to  sing  every  month  in  the  year. 

FORCEMEAT.  This  article, 
whether  in  the  form  of  stuffing  balls, 
or  for  patties,  makes  a  considerable 
part  of  good  cooking,  by  the  flavour 
it  imparts  to  whatsoever  dish  it  may 
be  added.  Yet  at  many  tables, 
where  every  thing  else  is  well  done, 
it  is  common  to  find  very  bad  stuf- 
fing. Exact  rules  for  the  quantity 
cannot  easily  be  given  ;  but  the  fol- 
lowing observations  may  be  useful, 
and  habit  will  soon  give  knowledge 
in  mixing  it  to  the  taste.  The  selec- 
tion of  ingredients  should  of  course 
be  made,  according  to  what  they  . 
are  wanted  for,  observing  that  of 
the  most  pungent,  the  smallest  quan- 
tity should  be  used.  No  one  flavour 
should  greatly  preponderate;  yet 
if  several  dishes  be  served  the  same 
day,  there  should  be  a  marked  va- 
riety in  the  taste  of  the  forcemeat, 
as  well  as  of  the  gravies.  It  should  | 
be  consistent  enough  to  cut  with  a 
knife,  but  neither  dry  nor  heavy. 
The  following  are  the  articles  of 
which  forcemeat  may  be  made, 
without  giving  it  any  striking  fla- 
vour. Cold  fowl  or  veal,  scrapM 
ham,  fat  bacon,  beef  suet,  crumbs 
of  bread,  salt,  white  pepper,  pars- 
ley, nutmeg,  yolk  and  white  of  eggs 
well  beaten  to  bind  the  mixture.  To 
these,  any  of  the  following  may  be 
added,  to  vary  the  taste,  and  give  it 
a  higher  relish.  Oysters,  anchovv, 
135 


FOR 


FOR 


taragon,  savoury,  pennyroyal,  knot- 
ted, marjoram,  thyme,  basil,  yolks 
of  hard  eggs,  cayenne,  garlic,  shalot, 
chives,  Jamaica  pepper  in  fine  pow- 
der, or  two  or  three  cloves. 

FORCEMEAT  BALLS.  To  make 
fine  forcement  balls  for  fish  soups, 
or  stewed  fish,  beat  together  the 
flesh  and  soft  parts  of  a  lobster,  half 
an  anchovy,  a  large  piece  of  boiled 
celery,  the  yolk  of  a  hard  egg,  a  lit- 
tle cayenne,  mace,  salt,  and  white 
pepper.  Add  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  bread  crumbs,  one  of  oyster 
liquor,  two  ounces  of  warmed  but- 
ter, and  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Make 
the  whole  into  balls,  and  fry  them 
in  butter,  of  a  fine  brown. 

FORCEMEAT  FOR  FOWLS. 
Shred  a  little  ham  or  gammon,  some 
cold  veal  or  fowl,  beef  suet,  parsley, 
a  small  quantity  of  onion,  and  a 
very  little  lemon  peel.  Add  salt, 
nutmeg,  or  pounded  mace,  bread 
crumbs,  and  either  white  pepper  or 
cayenne.  Pound  it  all  together  in 
a  mortar,  and  bind  it  with  one  or 
two  eggs  beaten  and  strained.  The 
same  stufting  will  do  for  meat,  or 
for  patties.  For  fowls,  it  is  usually 
put  between  the  skin  and  the  flesh. 
FORCEMEAT  FOR  GOOSE. 
Chop  very  fine  about  two  ounces  of 
onion,  and  an  ounce  of  green  sage. 
Add  four  ounces  of  bread  crumbs, 
the  yolk  and  white  of  an  egg,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt ;  and  if  approved, 
a  minced  apple.  This  will  do  for 
either  goose  or  duck  stuflSng. 

FORCEMEAT  FOR  HARE. 
Chop  up  the  liver,  with  an  anchovy, 
some  fat  bacon,  a  little  suet,  some 
sweet  herbs,  and  an  onion.  Add 
salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  crumbs  of 
bread,  and  an  egg  to  bind  all  toge- 
ther. 

FORCEMEAT  FOR  SAVOURY 
PIES.  The  same  as  for  fowls,  only 
substituting  fat  or  bacon,  instead  of 
suet.  If  the  pie  be  of  rabbit  or 
fowls,  the  livers  mixed  with  fat  and 
lean  pork,  instead  of  bacon,  will 
make  an    excellent  stuffing.      The 


seasoning  is  to  be  the  same  as  for 
fowls  or  meat. 

FORCEMEAT  FOR  TURKEY. 
The  same  stuflSng  will  do  for  boiled 
or  roast  turkey  as  for  veal,  or  to 
make  it  more  relishing,  add  a  little 
grated  ham  or  tongue,  an  anchovy, 
or  the  soft  part  of  a  dozen  oysters. 
Pork  sausage  meat  is  sometimes 
used  to  stuff"  turkies  or  fowls,  or 
fried,  and  sent  up  as  garnish. 

FORCEMEAT  FOR  TURTLE. 
A  pound  of  fine  fresh  suet,  one  ounce 
of  cold  veal  or  chicken,  chopped 
fine ;  crumbs  of  bread,  a  little  sha- 
lot or  onion,  white  pepper,  salt,  nut- 
meg, mace,  pennyroyal,  parsley,  and 
lemon  thyme,  finely  shred.  Beat 
as  many  fresh  eggs,  yolks  and  whites 
separately,  as  will  make  the  above  in- 
gredients into  a  moist  paste.  Roll  it 
into  small  balls,  and  boil  them  in 
fresh  lard,  putting  them  in  just  as 
it  boils  up.  When  of  a  light  brown 
take  them  out,  and  drain  them  be- 
fore the  fire.  If  the  suet  be  moist 
or  stale,  a  great  many  more  eggs 
will  be  necessary.  Balls  made  in 
this  way  are  remarkably  light ;  but 
being  greasy,  some  people  prefer 
them  with  less  suet  and  eggs. 

FORCEMEAT  FOR  VEAL. 
Scrape  two  ounces  of  undressed  lean 
veal,  free  from  skin  and  sinews  ;  two 
ounces  of  beef  or  veal  suet,  and 
two  of  bread  crumbs.  Chop  fine 
two  drams  of  parsley,  one  of  lemon 
peel,  one  of  sweet  herbs,  one  of 
onion,  and  add  half  a  dram  of  mace 
or  allspice  reduced  to  a  fine  pow- 
der. Pound  all  together  in  a  mor- 
tar, break  into  it  the  yolk  and  white 
of  an  egg,  rub  it  all  up  well  toge- , 
ther,  and  season  it  with  a  little  pep- 
per and  salt.  This  may  be  made 
more  savoury,  by  the  addition  of 
cold  boiled  tongue,  anchovy,  shalot, 
cavenne,  or  curry  powder. 

FOREHAND  OF  PORK.  Cut 
out  the  bone,  sprinkle  the  inside 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  dried  sage. 
Roll  the  pork  tight,  and  tie  it  up ; 
warm  a  little  butter  to  baste  it,  and 


FRE 


PRE 


then  flour  it.  Roast  it  by  a  hanging 
jack,  and  about  two  hours  will  do  it. 
FOREQUARTER  OF  LAMB. 
Roast  it  either  whole,  or  in  separate 
parts.  If  left  to  be  cold,  chopped 
parsley  should  be  sprinkled  over  it. 
The  neck  and  breast  together  are 
called  a  scoven. 

FOWLS.  In  purchasing  fowls 
for  dressing,  it  is  necessary  to  see 
that  they  are  fresh  and  good.  If  a 
cock  bird  is  young,  his  spurs  will 
be  short ;  but  be  careful  to  observe 
that  they  have  not  been  cut  or  pared, 
which  is  a  trick  too  often  practised. 
If  fresh,  the  vent  will  be  close  and 
dark.  Pullets  are  best  just  before 
they  begin  to  lay,  and  yet  are  full 
of  egg.  If  hens  are  old,  their  combs 
and  legs  will  be  rough  :  if  young, 
they  will  be  smooth.  A  good  ca- 
pon has  a  thick  belly  and  a  large 
rump  :  there  is  a  particular  fat  at 
his  breast,  and  the  comb  is  very 
pale.  Black-legged  fowls  being 
moist,  are  best  for  roasting. 

FRECKLES.  The  cosmetics  ge- 
nerally recommended  for  improving 
the  skin  and  bloom  of  the  face  are 
highly  pernicious,  and  ought  by  no 
means  to  be  employed.  Temperance 
in  diet  and  exercise,  with  frequent 
washing  and  bathing,  are  the  best 
means  of  preserving  a  healthful 
countenance.  But  those  who  desire 
to  soften  and  improve  the  skin,  may 
use  an  infusion  of  horseradish  in 
milk,  or  the  expressed  juice  of  house- 
leek  mixed  with  cream,  which  will 
be  useful  and  inoffensive.  Freckles 
on  the  face,  or  small  discolourations 
on  other  parts  of  the  skin,  are  con- 
stitutional in  some  cases ;  and  in 
others,  they  are  occasioned  by  the 
action  of  the  sun  upon  the  part,  and 
frequent  exposures  to  the  morning 
air.  For  dispersing  them,  take  four 
ounces  of  lemon  juice,  one  dram  of 
powdered  borax,  and  two  drams  of 
sugar:  mix  them  together,  and  let 
them  stand  a  few  days  in  a  glass 
bottle  till  the  liquid  is  fit  for  Use, 
and  then  rub  it  on  the  face.     But 


for  chaps  and  flaws  in  the  skin,  oc'> 
casioned  by  cold,  rub  on  a  little 
plain  unscented  pomatum  at  bed- 
time, and  let  it  remain  till  morning. 
Or,  which  is  much  better,  anoint  the 
face  with  honey  water,  made  to  the 
consistence  of  cream,  which  will 
form  a  kind  of  varnish  on  the  skin, 
and  protect  it  from  the  effects  of 
cold. 

FRENCH  BEANS.  String,  and 
cut  them  into  four  parts  ;  if  smaller, 
they  look  so  much  the  better.  Lay 
them  in  salt  and  water ;  and  when 
the  water  boils,  put  them  in  with 
some  salt.  As  soon  as  they  are 
done,  serve  them  immediately,  to 
preserve  their  colour.  Or  when 
half  done,  drain  off  the  water,  and 
add  two  spoonfuls  of  broth  strained* 
In  finishing  them,  put  in  a  little 
cream,  with  flour  and  butter. 

FRENCH  BREAD.  With  a  quar- 
ter of  a  peck  of  fine  flour,  mix  the 
yolks  of  three  and  the  whites  of  two 
eggs,  beaten  and  strained ;  a  little 
salt,  half  a  pint  of  good  yeast  that 
is  not  bitter,  and  as  much  lukewarm 
milk  as  will  work  it  into  a  thin  light 
dough.  Stir  it  about,  but  do  not 
knead  it.  Divide  the  dough  into 
three  parts,  put  them  into  wooden 
dishes,  set  them  to  rise,  then  turn 
them  out  into  the  oven,  which  must 
be  quick,  and  rasp  the  bread  when 
done. 

FRENCH  DUMPLINGS.  Grate 
a  penny  loaf,*  add  half  a  pound  of  cur- 
rants, three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
beef  suet  finely  shred,  and  half  a 
grated  nutmeg.  Beat  up  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  with  three  spoonfuls 
of  cream,  as  much  white  wine,  and 
a  little  sugar.  Mix  all  together, 
work  it  up  into  a  paste,  make  it  into 
dumplings  of  a  convenient  size,  and 
tie  them  up  in  cloths.  Put  them  into 
boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil 
three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

FRENCH  PIE.  Lay  a  puff  paste 
round  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  put 
in  either  slices  of  veal,  rabbits  or 
chickens  jointed ;    with   forcemeat 

T  137 


FRI 


FRI 


balls,  sweetbreads  cut  in  pieces,  ar- 
tichoke bottoms,  and  a  few  truffles. 

FRENCH  PORRIDGE.  Stir  to- 
gether some  oatmeal  and  water,  and 
pour  off  the  latter.  Put  fresh  in, 
stir  it  well,  and  let  it  stand  till  the 
next  day.  Strain  it  through  a  fine 
sieve,  and  boil  the  water,  which 
must  be  small  in  quantity,  adding 
some  milk  while  it  is  doing.  With 
the  addition  of  toast,  this  is  much 
in  request  abroad,  for  the  breakfast 
of  weakly  persons. 

FRENCH  PUDDING.  Grate  six 
ounces  of  brown  bread,  and  shred 
half  a  pound  of  suet.  Add  four 
eggs  well  beaten,  half  a  pound  of 
currants  picked  and  washed,  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  little 
nutmeg.  Mix  all  together,  tie  the 
pudding  up  close  in  a  cloth,  and 
boil  it  two  hours.  Serve  it  up  with 
a  sauce  of  melted  butter,  a  little 
sugar  and  sweet  wine. 

FRENCH  ROLLS.  Rub  one 
ounce  of  butter  into  a  pound  of 
flour ;  mix  one  egg  beaten,  a  little 
yeast  that  is  not  bitter,  and  as  much 
milk  as  will  make  the  dough  tolera- 
bly stiff".  Beat  it  well,  but  do  not 
knead  it :  let  it  rise,  and  bake  it  on 
tins. 

FRENCH  SALAD.  Mince  up 
three  anchovies,  a  shalot,  and  some 
parsley.  Put  them  into  a  bowl  with 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one 
of  oil,  and  a  little  salt  and  mustard. 
When  well  mixed,  add  by  de'grees 
some  cold  roast  or  boiled  meat  in 
very  thin  slices :  put  in  a  few  at  a 
time,  not  exceeding  two  or  three 
inches  long.  Shake  them  in  the 
seasoning,  and  then  put  more :  co- 
ver the  bowl  close,  and  let  the  salad 
be  prepared  three  hours  before  it  is 
to  be  eaten.  Garnish  with  parsley, 
and  a  few  slices  of  the  fat. 

FRICANDEAU  OF  BEEF.  Take 
a  nice  piece  of  lean  beef;  lard  it 
with  bacon  seasoned  with  pepper, 
salt,  cloves,  mace,  and  allspice.  Put 
it  into  a  stewpan  with  a  pint  of  broth, 
a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  bundle  of 
138 


parsley,  all  sorts  of  sweet  herbs,  a 
clove  of  garlic,  a  shalot  or  two,  four 
cloves,  pepper  and  salt.  When  the 
meat  is  become  tender,  cover  it 
close.  Skim  the  sauce  well,  strain 
it,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil 
till  reduced  to  a  glaze.  Glaze  the 
larded  side  with  this,  and  serve  the 
meat  on  sorrel  sauce. 

FRICANDEAU  OF  VEAL.  Cut 
a  large  piece  from  the  fat  side  of  the 
leg,  about  nine  inches  long  and  half 
as  thick  and  broad.  Beat  it  with 
the  rolling  pin,  take  off"  the  skin,  and 
trim  the  rough  edges.  Lard  the  top 
and  sides,  cover  it  with  fat  bacon, 
and  then  with  white  paper.  Lay  it 
into  a  stewpan  with  any  pieces  of 
undressed  veal  or  mutton,  four 
onions,  a  sliced  carrot,  a  faggot  of 
sweet  herbs,  four  blades  of  mace, 
four  bay  leaves,  a  pint  of  good  veal 
or  mutton  broth,  and  four  or  five 
ounces  of  lean  ham  or  gammon. 
Cover  the  pan  close,  and  let  it  stew 
slowly  for  three  hours ;  then  take 
up  the  meat,  remove  all  the  fat  from 
the  gravy,  and  boil  it  quick  to  a 
glaze.  Keep  the  fricandeau  quite 
hot,  and  then  glaze  it.  Serve  it 
with  the  remainder  of  the  glaze  in 
the  dish,  and  sorrel  sauce  in  a  tu- 
reen.— The  following  is  a  cheaper 
way  of  making  a  good  fricandeau  of 
veal.  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  the 
lean  part  of  a  large  neck  from  the 
best  end,  scooping  it  from  the  bones 
a  hand's  length,  and  prepare  it  in 
the  manner  above  directed.  Three 
or  four  bones  only  will  be  necessary, 
and  they  will  make  the  gravy  ;  but 
if  the  prime  part  of  the  leg  is  cut 
off*,  it  spoils  the  whole. — Another 
way  is  to  take  two  large  round 
sweetbreads,  and  prepare  them  like 
veal.  Make  a  rich  gravy  with  truf- 
fles, morels,  mushrooms,  and  arti- 
choke bottoms,  and  serve  it  round. 
FRICASSEE  OF  CHICKENS. 
Boil  rather  more  than  half,  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water,  and  let  them  cool. 
Cut  them  up,  simmer  in  a  little  gra- 
vy made  of  the  liquor  they  were 


FRI 


FRI 


boiled  in,  adding  a  bit  of  veal  or 
mutton,  onion,  mace,  lemon  peel, 
white  pepper,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs.  When  quite  tender,  keep 
them  hot,  while  the  following  sauce 
is  prepared.  Strain  off  the  liquor, 
return  it  into  the  saucepan  with  a 
little  salt,  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  and 
a  little  flour  and  butter.  Give  it 
one  boil,  and  when  ready  to  serve, 
beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  add  half 
a  pint  of  cream,  and  stir  them  over 
the  tire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  It 
.  will  be  quite  as  good  however  with- 
out the  egg.  Without  the  addition 
of  any  other  meat,  the  gravy  may 
be  made  of  the  trimmings  of  the 
fowls,  such  as  the  necks,  feet,  small 
wing  bones,  2;izzards,  and  livers. 

FRICASSEE  OF  RABBITS.  Skin 
them,  cut  them  in  pieces,  soak  in 
warm  water,  and  clean  them.  Then 
stew  them  in  a  little  fresh  water, 
with  a  bit  of  lemon  peel,  a  little 
white  wine,  an  anchovy,  an  onion, 
two  cloves,  and  a  sprig  of  sweet 
herbs.  When  tender  take  them  out, 
strain  off  the  liquor,  put  a  very  little 
of  it  into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of* thick 
cream,  with  a  piece  of  butter,  and 
a  little  flour.  Keep  it  constantly 
stirring  till  the  butter  is  melted  ; 
then  put  in  the  rabbit,  with  a  little 
grated  lemon  peel,  mace,  and  lemon 
juice.  Shake  all  together  over  the 
fire,  and  make  it  quite  hot.  If  more 
agreeable,  pickled  mushrooms  may 
be  used  instead  of  lemon. — To  make 
a  brown  fricassee,  prepare  the  rab- 
bits as  above,  and  fry  them  in  but- 
ter to  a  nice  brown.  Put  some 
gravy  or  beef  broth  into  the  pan, 
shake  in  some  flour,  and  keep  it 
stirring  over  the  fire.  Add  some 
ketchup,  a  very  little  shalot  chop- 
ped, salt,  cayenne,  and  lemon  juice, 
or  pickled  mushrooms.  Boil  it  up, 
put  in  the  rabbit,  and  shake  it  round 
till  it  is  quite  hot. 

FRYING.  This  is  often  a  very 
convenient'  and  expeditious  mode 
of  cooVmg  ;  but  though  one  of  the 
most  common,  it  is  as  commonly 


performed  in  a  very  imperfect  man- 
ner, and  meets  with  less  attention 
than  the  comfort  of  a  good  meal  re- 
quires. A  fryingpan  should  be  about 
four  inches  deep,  with  a  perfectly 
flat  and  thick  bottom,  and  perpen- 
dicular sides.  When  used  it  should 
be  half  filled  with  fat,  for  good  fry- 
ing is  in  fact,  boiling  in  fat.  To 
make  sure  that  the  pan  is  quite  clean, 
rub  a  little  fat  over  it,  then  make  it 
warm,  and  wipe  it  out  with  a  clean 
cloth.  Great  care  must  be  taken 
in  frying,  never  to  use  any  oil,  butter, 
lard,  or  drippings,  but  what  is  quite 
clean,  fresh,  and  free  from  salt. 
Any  thing  dirty  spoils  the  appear- 
ance, any  thing  bad  tasted  or  stale 
spoils  the  flavour,  and  salt  prevents 
its  browning.  Fine  olive  oil  is  the 
most  delicate  for  frying,  but  it  is 
very  expensive,  and  bad  oil  spoils 
every  thing  that  is  dressed  with  it. 
For  general  purposes,  and  especially 
for  fish,  clean  fresh  lard  is  not  near 
so  expensive  as  oil  or  clarified  but- 
ter, and  does  almost  as  well,  except 
for  coUops  and  cutlets.  Butter  of- 
ten burns  before  any  one  is  aware, 
and  what  is  fried  with  it  will  get  a 
dark  and  dirty  appearance.  Drip- 
ping, if  nicely  clean  and  fresh,  is 
almost  as  good  as  any  thing  :  if  not 
clean,  it  may  easily  be  clarified. 
Whatever  fat  be  used,  let  it  remain 
in  the  pan  a  few  minutes  after  fry- 
ing, and  then  pour  it  through  a  sieve 
into  a  clean  bason.  If  not  burnt,  it 
will  be  found  much  better  than  it 
was  at  first ;  but  the  fat  in  which 
fish  has  been  fried,  will  not  serve 
any  other  purpose.  To  fry  fish, 
parsley,  potatoes,  or  any  thing  that 
is  watery,  the  fire  must  be  very  clear, 
and  the  fat  quite  hot,  which  will  be 
the  case  when  it  has  done  hissing. 
Fish  will  neither  be  firm  nor  crisp, 
nor  of  a  good  colour,  unless  the  fat 
be  of  a  proper  heat.  To  determine 
this,  throw  a  little  bit  of  bread  into 
the  pan  :  if  it  fries  crisp,  the  fat  is 
ready  :  if  it  burns  the  bread,  it  is 
too  hot.  Whatever  is  fried  before 
13% 


FR 


FR  J 


the  fat  is  hot  enough,  will  be  pale 
and  sodden,  and  offend  the  palate 
and  the  stomach,  as  well  as  the  eye. 
The  fat  also  must  be  thoroughly 
drained  from  the  fry,  especially  from 
such  things  as  are  dressed  in  bread 
crumbs,  or  the  flavour  will  be  im- 
paired. The  dryness  of  fish  de- 
pends much  upon  its  having  been 
fried  in  fat  of  a  due  degree  of  heat, 
they  are  then  crisp  and  dry  in  a  few 
minutes  after  being  taken  out  of  the 
pan :  when  they  are  not,  lay  them 
on  a  soft  cloth  before  the  fire,  and 
turn  them  till  they  are  dry. 

FRIED  CARP.  Scale,  draw,  and 
wash  them  clean  ;  dry  them  in  flour, 
and  fry  them  in  hog's  lard  to  a  light 
brown.  Fry  some  toast,  cut  three- 
corner  ways,  with  the  roes  ;  lay  the 
fish  on  a  coarse  cloth  to  drain,  and 
serve  them  up  with  butter,  anchovy 
sauce,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Garnish  with  the  bread,  roe,  and 
lemon. 

FRIED  EELS.  There  is  a  greater 
diff'erence  in  the  goodness  of  eels 
than  of  any  other  fish.  The  true 
silver-eel,  so  called  from  the  bright 
colour  of  the  belly,  is  caught  in  the 
Thames.  The  Dutch  eels  sold  at 
Billingsgate  are  very  bad ;  those 
taken  in  great  floods  are  generally 
good,  but  in  ponds  they  have  usually 
a  strong  rank  flavour.  Except  the 
middle  of  summer,  they  are  always 
in  season.  If  small,  they  should 
be  curled  round  and  fried,  being 
first  dipped  into  eggs  and  crumbs  of 
bread. 

FRIED  EGGS.  Boil  six  eggs 
for  three  minutes,  put  them  in  cold 
water,  and  take  off  the  shells,  with- 
out breaking  the  whites.  Wrap  the 
eggs  up  in  a  puff  paste,  smear  them 
over  with  egg,  and  grate  some  bread 
over  them.  Put  into  a  stewpan  a 
suflicient  quantity  of  lard  or  butter 
to  swim  the  eggs ;  and  when  the 
lard  is  hot,  put  in  the  eggs,  and  fry 
them  of  a  good  colour.  Lay  them 
on  a  cloth  to  drain. 

FRIED  HERBS.  Clean  and  drain 
140 


a  good  quantity  of  spinach  leaves, 
two  large  handfuls  of  parsley,  and 
a  handful  of  green  onions.  Chop 
the  parsley  and  onions,  and  sprinkle 
them  among  the  spinach.  Stew 
them  together  with  a  little  salt,  and 
a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
Shake  the  pan  when  it  begins  to 
grow  warm,  and  let  it  ;  e  closely 
covered  over  a  slow  stove  till  done 
enough.  It  is  served  with  slices  of 
broiled  calves'  liver,  small  rashers 
of  bacon,  and  fried  eggs.  The  lat- 
ter on  the  herbs,  and  the  other  in  a 
separate  dish.  This  is  the  mode  of 
dressing  herbs  in  Staffordshire. 

FRIED  MACKAREL.  Stuff  the 
fish  with  grated  bread,  minced  pars- 
ley and  lemon  peel,  pepper  and  salt, 
nutmeg,  and  the  yolk  of  an  tgg,  all 
mixed  together.  Serve  with  an- 
chovy and  fennel  sauce.  Or  split 
the  fish  open,  cut  off  their  heads, 
season  and  hang  them  up  four  op 
five  hours,  and  then  broil  them. 
Make  the  sauce  of  fennel  and  pars- 
ley chopped  fine,  and  mixed  with 
melted  butter. 

FRIED  OYSTERS.  To  prepare 
a  garnish  for  boiled  fish,  make  a 
batter  of  flour,  milk,  and  eggs.  Sea- 
son it  a  very  little,  dip  the  oysters 
into  the  batter,  and  fry  them  of  a 
fine  yellow  brown.  A  little  nutmeg 
should  be  put  into  the  seasoning, 
and  a  few  crumbs  of  bread  into  the 
flour. 

FRIED  PARSLEY.  Pick  some 
young  parsley  very  clean,  and  put  it 
into  a  fryiogpau  with  a  bit  of  butter. 
Stir  it  with  a  knife  till  it  becomes 
crisp,  and  use  it  for  garnishing.  Or 
rub  the  picked  parsley  in  a  cloth 
to  clean  it,  and  set  it  before  the  fire 
in  a  Dutch  oven  till  it  is  crisp.  This 
is  better  than  fried  parsley,  and  may 
be  rubbed  on  steaks,  calf's  liver,  or 
any  other  dish  of  the  kind. 

FRIED  PATTIES.  Mince  a  bit 
of  cold  veal,  and  six  oysters  ;  mix 
them  with  a  few  crumbs  of  bread, 
salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  and  a 
very  small  bit  of  lemon  peel.     Add 


FRI 


FRO 


.  the  liquor  of  the  oysters,  warm  all 
together  in  a  tosser,  but  it  must  not 
boil,  and  then  let  it  grow  cold.  Pre- 
pare a  good  puff-paste,  roll  it  thin, 
and  cut  it  into  round  or  square 
pieces.  Put  some  of  the  mixture 
between  two  of  them,  twist  the 
edges  to  keep  in  the  gravy,  and  fry 
them  of  a  fine  brown.  If  baked,  it 
becomes  a  fashionable  dish.  All 
patties  should  be  washed  over  with 
egg  before  they  are  baked. 

FRIED  POTATOES.  Slice  them 
thin,  and  fry  them  in  butter  till 
they  are  brown  ;  then  lay  them  in  a 
dish,  and  pour  melted  butter  over 
them.  Potatoes  may  likewise  be 
fried  in  butter,  and  served  up  with 
powder  sugar  strewed  over  them. 
Any  kind  of  fruit  may  be  fried  in  the 
same  manner,  and  all  batter  should 
be  fried  in  hog's  lard. 

FRIED  RABBIT.  Cut  it  into 
joints,  and  fry  it  in  butter  of  a  nice 
brown.  Send  it  to  table  with  fried 
or  dried  parsley,  and  gravy  or  liver 
sauce. 

,  FRIED  SMELTS.  Wipe  them 
clean,  take  away  the  gills,  rub  them 
over  with  a  feather  dipped  in  egg, 
and  strew  on  some  grated  bread. 
Fry  them  in  hog's  lard  over  a  clear 
fire,  and  put  them  in  when  the  fat 
is  boiling  hot.  When  they  are  of  a 
fine  brown,  take  them  out  and  drain 
off  the  fat.  Garnish  with  fried 
parsley  and  lemon. 

FRIED  SOLES.  Divide  two  or 
three  soles  from  the  backbone,  and 
take  off  the  head,  lins,  and  tail. 
Sprinkle  the  inside  with  salt,  roll 
them  up  tight  from  the  tail  and  up- 
wards,and  fasten  with  small  skewers. 
Small  fish  do  not  answer,  but  if  large 
or  of  a  tolerable  size,  put  half  a  fish 
in  each  roll.  Dip  them  into  yolks 
of  eggs,  and  cover  them  with  crumbs. 
Egg  them  over  again,  and  then  put 
more  crumbs.  Fry  them  of  a  beau- 
tiful colour  in  lard,  or  in  clarified 
butter.  Or  dip  the  soles  in  egg, 
&qd  cover  them  with  fine  crumbs  of 


bread.  Set  on  a  fryingpan  of  the 
proper  size,  and  put  into  it  a  good 
quantity  of  fresh  lard  or  dripping. 
Let  it  boil,  and  immediately  put  the 
fish  into  it,  and  do  them  of  a  fine 
brown.  Soles  that  have  been  fried, 
eat  good  cold  with  oil,  vinegar,  salt 
and  mustard. 

FRIED  TENCH.  Scale  and  clean 
the  fish  well,  dry  and  lay  them  be- 
fore the  fire,  dust  them  with  flour, 
and  fry  them  in  dripping  or  hog's 
lard.  Serve  with  crisped  parsley, 
and  plain  butter.  Percjfi,  trout,  and 
grayling  may  be  done  the  same. 

FRIED  TURBOT.  Cut  a  small 
turbot  across  in  ribs,  dry  and  flour 
it,  put  it  into  a  fryingpan,  and  cover 
it  with  boiling  lard.  Fry  it  brown, 
and  drain  it.  Clean  the  pan,  put  in 
a  little  wine,  an  anchovy,  salt,  nut- 
meg, and  a  little  ginger.  Put  in  the 
fish,  and  stew  it  till  the  liquor  is 
half  wasted.  Then  take  it  out,  put 
in  some  butter  rolled  in  flour,  with 
a  minced  lemon,  and  simmer  them 
to  a  proper  thickness.  Rub  a  hot 
dish  with  a  piece  of  shalot,  lay  the 
turbot  in  the  dish,  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  it. 

FRIED  VENISON.  Cut  the  meat 
into  slices,  fry  it  of  a  bright  brown, 
and  keep  it  hot  before  the  fire. 
Make  gravy  of  the  bones,  add  a  \iU 
tie  butter  rolled  in  flour,  stir  it  in 
the  pan  till  it  is  thick  and  brown, 
and  put  in  some  port  and  lemon 
juice.  Warm  the  venison  in^it,  put 
in  the  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over 
it.  Send  up  currant  jelly  in  a  glass, 

FRITTERS,  Make  them  of  pan- 
cake batter,  dropped  in  small  quan- 
tities into  the  pan  :  or  put  apple 
into  batter,  pared  and  sliced,  and 
fry  some  of  it  with  each  slice.  Cur- 
rants, or  very  thinly-sliced  lemon, 
make  an  agreeable  change.  Frit- 
ters for  company  should  be  served 
on  a  folded  napkin  in  the  dish.  Any 
sort  of  sweetmeat,  or  ripe  fruit,  may 
be  made  into  fritters. 

FRONTINIAC.       Boil     twelve 
141 


FRO 


FRU 


pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  and  six  pounds 
j  of  raisins  cut  small,  in  six  gallons 

I  of  water.  When  the  liquor  is  almost 

cold,  put  in  half  a  peck  of  elder 
flowers ;  and  the  next  day  six  spoon- 
fuls of  the  syrup  of  lemons,  and  four 
of  yeast.  Let  it  stand  two  days, 
put  it  into  a  barrel  that  will  just 
hold  it,  and  bottle  it  after  it  has 
stood  about  two  months. 

FROST  AND  BLIGHTS.  When 
a  fruit  tree  is  in  full  blossom,  the 
best  way  to  preserve  it  from  frost 
and  blights  is  to  twine  a  rope  upon 
its  branches,  and  bring  the  end  of 
it  into  a  pail  of  water.  If  a  light 
>  frost  happen  in  the  night,  the  tree 

^ill  not  be  affected  by  it ;  but  an 
ice  will  be  formed  on  the  surface  of 
the  water,  in  which  the  end  of  the 
rope  is  immersed.  This  experiment 
may  easily  be  tried  on  wall  fruit, 
and  has  been  found  to  answer.  If 
trees  be  infected  with  an  easterly 
blight,  the  best  way  is  to  fumigate 
them  with  brimstone  strewed  on 
burning  charcoal :  this  will  effectu- 
ally destroy  thelnsects,  and  preserve 
the  fruit.  Afterwards  it  will  be  pro- 
per to  dash  them  with  water,  or 
wash  the  branches  with  a  woollen 
cloth,  and  clear  them  of  all  gluti- 
nous matter  and  excrescences  of 
every  kind,  which  would  harbour  the 
insects  ;  but  the  washing  should  be 
performed  in  the  early  part  of  a 
warm  day,  that  the  moisture  may  be 
exhaled  before  the  cold  of  the  even- 
%  ing  approaches. 

FROSTED  POTATOES.  If 
soaked  three  hours  in  cold  water, 
before  they  are  to  be  prepared  as 
food,  changing  the  water  every  hour, 
these  valuable  roots  will  recover 
their  salubrious  quality  and  flavour. 
While  in  cold  water,  they  must  stand 
where  a  sufficiency  of  artificial  heat 
may  prevent  freezing.  If  much 
frozen,  allow  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  saltpetre  to  every  peck  of  pota- 
toes, and  dissolve  it  in  the  water. 
^^^ut  if  so  much  penetrated  by  the 

^Hr         142 


frost  as  to  render  them  unfit  for  cu- 
linary purposes,  they  may  be  made 
into  starch,  and  will  yield  a  large 
quantity  of  flour  for  that  purpose. 

FROTH  FOR  CREAMS.  Sweet- 
en half  a  pound  of  the  pulp  of  dam- 
sons, or  any  other  scalded  fruit. 
Put  to  it  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
beaten,  and  beat  up  the  pulp  with 
them  till  it  will  stand  up,  and  take 
any  form.  It  should  be  rough,  to 
imitate  a  rock,  or  the  billows  of  the 
ocean.  This  froth  looks  and  eats 
well,  and  may  be  laid  on  cream,  cus- 
tard, or  trifle,  with  a  spoon. 

FRUIT.  The  method  of  preserv- 
ing any  kind  of  fruit  all  the  year,  is 
to  put  them  carefully  into  a  wide- 
mouthed  glass  vessel,  closed  down 
with  oiled  paper.  The  glasses  are 
to  be  placed  in  a  box  filled  with  a 
mixture  of  four  pounds  of  dry  sand, 
two  pounds  of  bole-armeniac,  and 
one  pound  of  saltpetre,  so  that  the 
fruit  may  be  completely  covered. 
The  fruit  should  be  gathered  by  the 
hand  before  it  be  thoroughly  ripe, 
and  the  box  kept  in  a  dry  place. 

FRUIT  BISCUITS.  To  the  pulp 
of  any  scalded  fruit,  put  an  equal 
weight  of  sugar  sifted,  and  bea^  it 
two  hours.  Then  make  it  into  little 
white-f^per  forms,  dry  them  in  a 
cool  oven,  and  turn  them  the  next 
day.  They  may  be  put  into  boxes 
in  the  course  of  two  or  three  days. 

FRUIT  FOR  CHILDREN.  To 
prepare  fruit  for  children,  far  more 
wholesome  than  in  puddings  or  pies, 
put  some  sliced  apples,  plums  or 
gooseberries,  into  a  stone  jar,  and 
sprinkle  among  them  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  fine  moist  sugar.  Set 
the  jar  on  a  hot  hearth,  or  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  re- 
main till  the  fruit  is  well  done. 
Slices  of  bread,  or  boiled  rice,  may 
either  be  stewed  with  the  fruit,  or 
added  when  eaten. 

FRUIT  PASTE.  Put  any  kind 
of  fruit  into  a  preserving  pan,  stir 
it  till  it  will  mash  quite  soft,  and 


FRU 


FUE 


strain  it.  To  one  pint  of  juice,  add 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  sugar; 
dissolve  the  sugar  in  water,  and  boil 
it  till  the  water  is  dried  up. .  Then 
mix  it  with  the  juice,  boil  it  once, 
pour  it  into  plates,  and  dry  it  in  a 
stove.  When  wanted  for  use,  cut  it 
in  strips,  and  make  paste  knots  for 
garnishing. 

FRUIT  PUDDINGS.  Make  up 
a  thick  batter  of  milk  and  eggs,  with 
a  little  flour  and  salt;  put  in  any 
kind  of  fruit,  and  either  bake  or 
boil  it.  Apples  should  be  pared 
and  quartered,  gooseberries  and 
currants  should  be  picked  and  clean- 
ed, before  they  are  put  into  the  bat- 
ter. Or  make  a  thick  paste,  roll  it 
out,  and  line  sa  bason  with  it,  after 
it  has  been  rubbed  with  a  little  but- 
ter. Then  fill  it  with  fruit,  put  on 
a  lid,  tie  it  up  close  in  a  cloth,  and 
boil  it  for  two  hours.  The  pudding 
will  be  lighter,  if  only  made  in  a 
bason,  then  turned  out  into  a  pud- 
ding cloth,  and  boiled  in  plenty  of 
water. 

FRUIT  STAINS.  If  stains  of 
fruit  or  wine  have  been  long  in  the 
linen,  rub  the  part  on  each  side  with 
yellow  soap.  Then  lay  on  a  thick 
mixture  of  starch  in  cold  water,  rub 
it  well  in,  and  expose  the  linen  to 
the  sun  and  air  till  the  stain  comes 
«ut.  If  not  removed  in  three  or 
four  days,  rub  oflf  the  mixture,  and 
renew  the  process.  When  dry,  it 
may  be  sprinkled  with  a  little  water. 
— Many  other  stains  may  be  taken 
out  by  only  dipping  the  linen  into 
sour  buttermilk,  and  drying  it  in  a 
hot  sun.  Then  wash  it  in  cold  wa- 
ter and  dry  it,  two  or  three  times  a 
day. 

FRUIT  FOR  TARTS.  To  pre- 
serve fruit  for  family  desserts,  whe- 
ther cherries,  plums,  or  apples, 
gather  them  when  ripe,  and  put 
them  in  small  jars  that  will  hold 
about  a  pound.  Strew  over  each 
jar  six  ounces  of  fine  pounded  sugar, 
and  cover  each  with  two  bladders, 
separately  tied  down.     Set  the  jars 


in  a  large  stewpan  of  water  up  to 
the  neck,  and  let  it  boil  three  hours 
gently.  Keep  these  and  all  other 
sorts  of  fruit  free  from  damp. 

FRUIT  TREES.  When  they  have 
the  appearance  of  being  old  or  worn 
out,  and  are  covered  with  moss  and 
insects,  they  may  be  revived  and 
made  fruitful  by  dressing  them  well 
with  a  brush,  dipped  in  a  solution 
of  strong  fresh  lime.  The  outer 
rind,  with  all  its  incumbrance,  will 
then  fall  off ;  a  new  and  clean  one 
will  be  formed,  and  the  trees  put  on 
a  healthy  appearance. 

FRUITS  IN  JELLY.  Put  half 
a  pint  of  calf's  foot  jelly  into  a 
bowl ;  when  stiff,  lay  in  three  peach- 
es, and  a  bunch  of  grapes  with  the 
stalk  upwards.  Cover  over  with 
vine  leaves,  and  fill  up  the  bowl  with 
jelly.  Let  it  stand  till  the  next  day, 
and  then  set  it  to  the  brim  in  hot 
water.  When  it  gives  way  from  the 
bowl,  turn  the  jelly  out  carefully, 
and  send  it  to  table.  Any  kind  of 
fruit  may  be  treated  in  the  same 
way. 

FUEL.  Coals  constitute  a  prin- 
cipal article  of  domestic  conveni- 
ence, especially  during  the  severity 
of  winter.  At  that  season  they  of- 
ten become  very  scarce,  and  are  sold 
at  an  extravagant  price.  To  remedy 
this  evil  in  some  measure,  take  two- 
thirds  of  soft  clay,  free  from  stones, 
and  work  it  into  three  or  four  bushels 
of  small  coals  previously  sifted : 
form  this  composition  into  balls  or 
cakes,  about  three  or  four  inches 
thick,  and  let  them  be  thoroughly 
dried.  When  the  fire  burns  clear, 
place  four  or  five  of  these  cakes  in 
the  front  of  the  grate,  where  they 
will  soon  become  red,  and  yield  a 
clear  and  strong  heat  till  they  are 
totally  consumed.  The  expense  of 
a  ton  of  this  composition  is  but  tri- 
fling, when  compared  with  that  of  a 
chaldron  of  coals,  as  it  may  be  pre- 
pared at  one-fourth  of  the  cost,  and 
will  be  of  greater  service  than  a  chal- 
dron and  a  half  of  the  latter.  Coal 
143 
\ 


FUE 


FUR 


dust  worked  up  with  horse  dung, 
cow  dung,  saw  dust,  tanner's  waste, 
or  any  other  combustible  matter 
that  is  not  too  expensive,  will  also 
be  found  a  saving  ii  the  article  of 
fuel.  Nearly  a  third  of  the  coals 
consumed  in  large  towns  and  cities 
might  be  saved,  if  the  coal  ashes 
were  preserved,  instead  of  being 
thrown  into  the  dust  bins,  and  after- 
wards mixed  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  staallcoal,  moistened  with  water. 
This  mixture  thrown  behind  the  fire, 
with  a  few  round  coals  in  front, 
would  save  the  trouble  of  sifting  the 
ashes,  and  make  a  cheerful  and 
pleasant  fire. The  Best  Mode 

OP     LIGHTING    A    FiRE. — Fill    the 

grate  with  fresh  coals  quite  up  to 
the  upper  bar  but  one  ;  then  lay  on 
the  wood  in  the  usual  manner,  ra- 
ther collected  in  a  mass  than  scat- 
tered. Over  the  wood  place  the 
cinders  of  the  preceding  day,  piled 
up  as  high  as  the  grate  will  admit, 
and  placed  loosely  in  rather  large 
fragments,  in  order  that  the  draft 
may  be  free  :  a  bit  or  two  of  fresh 
coal  may  be  added  to  the  cinders 
when  once  they  are  lighted,  but  no 
small  coal  must  be  thrown  on  at 
first.  When  all  is  prepared,  light 
the  wood,  when  the  cinders  in  a 
short  time  being  thoroughly  ignited, 
the  gas  rising  from  the  coals  below, 
which  will  now  be  affected  by  the 
heat,  will  take  fire  as  it  passes 
through  them,  leaving  a  very  small 
portion  of  smoke  to  go  up  the  chim- 
ney. One  of  the  advantages  of  this 
mode  of  lighting  a  fire  is,  that 
small  coal  is  better  suited  to  the 
purpose  than  large,  except  a  few 
pieces  in  front  to  keep  the  small 
from  falling  out  of  the  grate.  A  fire 
lighted  in  this  way  will  burn  all  day, 
without  any  thing  being  done  to  it. 
When  apparently  quite  out,  on  be- 
ing stirred,  you  have  in  a  few  mi- 
nutes a  glowing  fire.  When  the  up- 
per part  begins  to  cake,  it  must  be 
stirred,  but  the  lower  must  not  be 
touched. 

144 


FUMIGATION.  To  prevent  in- 
fection from  fever,  take  a  handful 
each  of  rue,  sage,  mint,  rosemary, 
and  lavender,  all  fresh  gathered. 
Cut  them  small,  put  them  into  a 
stone  jar,  pour  on  a  pint  of  the  best 
white-wine  vinegar,  cover  the  jar 
close,  and  let  it  stand  eight  days 
in  the  sun,  or  near  the  fire.  Then 
strain  it  off,  and  dissolve  in  it  an 
ounce  of  camphor.  This  liquid 
sprinkled  about  the  chamber,  of 
fumigated,  will  much  revive  the  pa^ 
tient,  and  prevent  the  attendants 
from  receiving  the  infection.  Or 
mix  a  spoonful  of  salt  in  a  cup, 
with  a  little  powdered  magnesia  : 
pour  on  the  mixture  at  different 
times  a  spoonful  of  strong  vitriolic 
acid,  and  the  vapour  arising  from  it 
will  destroy  the  putrid  eflluvia. 

FURNITURE  LININGS.  These 
articles  require  to  be  first  washed, 
and  afterwards  dyed  of  a  different 
colour,  in  order  to  change  and  im- 
prove their  appearance. — For  a 
Buff  or  salmon  colour,  according 
to  the  depth  of  the  hue,  rub  down 
on  a  pewter  plate  two  pennyworth 
of  Spanish  arnatto,  and  then  boil  it 
in  a  pail  of  water  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Put  into  it  two  ounces  of 
potash,  stir  it  round,  and  instantly 
put  in  the  lining.  Stir  it  all  the 
time  it  is  boiling,  which  must  be 
five  or  six  minutes  ;  then  put  it  into 
cold  spring  water,  and  hang  the  ar- 
ticles up  singly  without  wringing. 
When  almost  dry,  fold  the  lining, 
and  mangle  it. — For  Pink,  the  calico 
must  be  washed  extremely  clean, 
and  thoroughly  dried.  Then  boil  it 
in  two  gallons  of  soft  water,  and 
four  ounces  of  alum ;  take  it  out, 
and  dry  it  in  the  air.  Meanwhile 
boil  in  the  alum  water  two  handfuls 
of  wheat  bran  till  quite  slippery, 
and  then  strain  it.  Take  two  scru- 
ples of  cochineal,  and  two  ounces  of 
argall  finely  pounded  and  sifted,  and 
mix  it  with  the  liquor  a  little  at  a 
time.  Put  the  calico  into  the  liquor, 
keep  it  stirring  and  boiling,  till  the 


GAM 


G  AM 


liquor  is  nearly  wasted.  Then  take 
out  the  calico,  wash  it  first  in  cham- 
ber lye,  and  afterwards  in  cold  wa- 
ter. Rinse  it  in  water-starch  strain- 
ed, dry  it  quick  without  hanging  it 
in  folds,  and  let  it  be  well  mangled. 
It  would  be  better  still  to  have  it 
callendered. — Blue.  The  calico  must 
be  washed  clean  and  dried.  Then 
mix  some  of  Scott's  liquid  blue  in 
as  much  water  as  will  be  sufficient 
to  cover  the  things  to  be  dyed,  and 
add  some  starch  to  give  it  a  light 
stiffness.     Dry  a  small  piece  of  the 


lining  to  see  whether  the  colour  is 
deep  enough  ;  and  if  approved,  put 
it  in  and  wash  it  in  the  dye.  Dry 
the  articles  singly,  and  mangle  or 
callender  them. 

FURS.  To  preserve  them  from 
the  moth,  comb  them  occasionally 
while  in  use.  When  not  wanted, 
mix  among  them  bitter  apples  from 
the  druggists,  in  small  muslin  bags, 
sewing  them  in  several  folds  of  linen, 
carefully  turned  in  at  the  edges. 
Keep  the  furs  in  a  cool  place,  free 
from  damp. 


G. 


Gad  fly.  'Cows  and  oxen  are 
often  so  distressed  by  the  darts  of 
the  gad  fly,  that  they  rush  into  the 
water  for  refuge  till  night  approach- 
es. The  only  remedy  is  to  wash  the 
backs  of  the  cattle  in  the  spring 
with  strong  tobacco-water,  which 
would  greatly  prevent  the  generating 
of  these  vermin.  When  sheep  are 
struck  with  the  fly,  the  way  is  to 
clip  oflf  the  wool,  to  rub  the  parts 
affected  with  powdered  lime  or  wood 
ashes,  and  afterwards  to  anoint  them 
with  currier's  oil,  which  will  heal 
the  wounds,  and  secure  the  animals 
from  future  attack.  Or  dissolve 
half  an  ounce  of  corrosive  sublimate 
in  two  quarts  of  soft  water,  and  add 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  spirits  of  tur- 
pentine. Cut  off  the  wool  as  far  as 
it  is  infected,  pour  a  few  drops  of 
the  mixture  in  a  circle  round  the 
maggots  produced  by  the  flies,  and 
afterwards  rub  a  little  of  it  among 
them,  and  the  maggots  will  imme- 
diately be  destroyed. 

GAME.  Game  ought  not  to  be 
thrown  away  even  after  it  has  been 
kept  a  long  time,  for  when  it  seems 
to  be  spoiled  it  may  often  be  made 
fit  for  eating,  by  carefully  cleaning 
and  washing  it  with  vinegar  and 
(No.  7.) 


water.  If  there  is  danger  of  birds 
not  keeping,  the  best  way  is  to  crop 
and  draw  them.  Pick  them  clean, 
wash  them  in  two  or  three  waters, 
and  rub  them  with  salt.  Plunge 
them  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water 
one  by  one,  and  draw  them  up  and 
down  by  the  legs,  that  the  water 
may  pass  through  them-  Let  them 
remain  in  the  water  five  or  six  mi- 
nutes, and  then  hang  them  up  in  a 
cool  place.  When  drained,  season 
the  insides  well  wit-h  pepper  and 
salt,  and  wash  them  before  they  are 
roasted.  The  most  delicate  birds, 
even  grouse,  may  thus  be  preserved. 
Those  that  live  by  suction  cannot 
be  done  this  way,  as  they  are  never 
drawn  ;  and  perhaps  the  heat  might 
make  them  worse,  as  the  water  could 
not  pass  through  them  ;  but  they 
will  bear  a  high  flavour.  Lumps 
of  charcoal  put  about  birds  and 
meat  will  preserve  them  from  taint, 
and  restore  what  is  spoiling. 

GAME  SAUCE.  Wash  and  pare 
a  head  of  celery,  cut  it  into  thin 
slices,  boil  it  gently  till  it  becomes 
tender ;  then  add  a  little  beaten 
mace,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg. 
Thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter, 
boil  it  up,  pour  some  of  it  in  the 

u  115 


GAR 


GEO 


dish,  and  some  in  a  boat.  I^mon 
pickle  or  lemon  juice  may  be  added 
to  it. 

GAMMON.  Take  off  the  rind 
of  the  ham  and  gammon,  and  soak 
it  in  water  ;  cover  the  fat  part  with 
writing  paper,  roast,  and  baste  it 
with  canary.  When  done,  sprinkle 
it  over  with  crumbs  of  bread  and 
parsley.  Serve  it  with  brown  gravy, 
after  it  is  well  browned,  and  gar- 
nish it  with  raspings  of  bread. 

GARDEN  HEDGES.  A  well 
trained  hawthorn  fence  is  the  strong- 
est, but  as  it  is  apt  to  get  thin  and 
full  of  gaps  at  the  bottom,  the  bar- 
berry is  to  be  preferred,  especially 
on  high  banks  with  a  light  soil.  It, 
may  be  raised  from  the  berries  as 
easily  as  hawthorn,  and  will  grow 
faster,  if  the  suckers  be  planted 
early.  The  barberry  puts  up  nu- 
merous suckers  from  the  roots ;  it 
will  therefore  always  grow  close  at 
the  bottom,  and  make  an  impene- 
trable fence.  In  trimming  any  kind 
of  close  hedge,  care  should  be  taken 
to  slope  the  sides,  and  make  it  point- 
ed at  the  top  :  otherwise,  the  bot- 
tom being  shaded  by  the  upper  part, 
will  make  it  grow  thin  and  full  of 
gaps.  The  sides  of  a  young  hedge 
may  be  trimmed,  to  make  it  bush  the 
better  ;  but  it  should  not  be  topped 
till  it  has  arrived  at  a  full  yard  in 
height,  though  a  few  of  the  points 
may  be  taken  off.  The  bottom  of 
hawthorn  hedges  may  be  conveni- 
ently thickened,  by  putting  in  some 
plants  of  common  sweet  briar,  or 
barberry. 

GARDEN  RHUBARB.  To  cul- 
tivate the  common  garden  rhubarb, 
it  should  not  only  have  a  depth  of 
good  soil,  but  it  should  be  watered 
in  dry  weather,  and  well  covered 
with  straw  or  dung  in  the  winter 
season.  It  will  then  become  solid 
when  taken  out  of  the  ground  ;  and 
if  cut  into  large  slices,  and  hung  up 
in  a  warm  kitchen,  it  will  soon  be  fit 
for  use.  The  plants  may  be  taken 
up  when  the  leaves  are  decayed, 
146 


either  in  spring  or  in  autumn,  while 
the  weather  is  dry  ;  and  when  the 
roots  are  cleared  from  dirt,  without 
washing,  they  should  be  dried  in 
the  sun  for  a  few  days  before  they 
are  hung  up.  The  better  way  would 
be  to  wrap  them  up  separately  in 
whited  brown  paper,  and  dry  them 
on  the  hob  of  a  common  stove. 
Lemon  and  orange  peel  will  dry  re- 
markably well  in  the  same  manner. 
GARGLES.  Common  gargles  may 
be  made  of  figs  boiled  in  milk  and 
water,  with  a  little  sal-ammoniac  ; 
or  sage-tea,  with  honey  and  vinegar 
mixed  together.  A  sore  throat  may 
be  gargled  with  it  two  or  three 
times  a  day. 

geese!  The  rearing  of  this 
species  of  poultry  incurs  but  little 
expense,  as  they  chiefly  support 
themselves  on  commons  or  in  lanes, 
where  they  can  get  at  water.  The 
largest  are  esteemed  the  best,  as 
also  are  the  white  and  the  grey  :  the 
pied  and  dark  coloured  are  not  so 
good.  Thirty  days  are  generally 
the  time  that  the  goose  sets,  but  in 
warm  weather  she  will  sometimes 
hatch  sooner.  Give  them  plenty  of 
food,  such  as  scalded  bran  and  light 
oats.  As  soon  as  the  goslings  are 
hatched,  keep  them  housed  for  eight 
or  ten  days,  and  feed  them  with  bar- 
ley meal,  bran,  and  curds.  Green 
geese  should  begin  to  fatten  at  six 
or  seven  weeks  old,  and  be  fed  as 
above.  -  Stubble  geese  require  no 
fattening,  if  they  have  the  run  of 
good  fields  and  pasture. — If  geese 
are  bought  at  market,  for  the  pur- 
pose of  cooking,  be  careful  to  see 
that  they  are  fresh  and  young.  If 
fresh,  the  feet  will  be  pliable  :  if 
stale,  dry  and  stiff.  The  bill  and 
feet  of  a  young  one  will  be  yellow, 
and  there  will  be  but  few  hairs  up- 
on them  :  if  old,  they  will  be  red. 
Green  geese,  not  more  than  three 
or  four  months  old,  should  be  scald- 
ed :  a  stubble  goose  should  be  pick- 
ed dry. 

GEORGE  PUDDING.    Boil  ve- 


GIB 


tJIL 


ry  tender  a  handful  of  whole  rice  iu 
a  small  quantity  of  milk,  with  a 
large  piece  of  lemon  peel.  Let  it 
drain  ;  then  mix  with  it  a  dozen  ap- 
ples, boiled  to  a  pulp  as  dry  as  pos- 
sible. Add  a  glass  of  white  wine, 
the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  two  ounces 
of  orange  and  citron  cut  thin,  and 
sweeten  it  with  sugar.  Line  a  mould 
or  bason  with  a  very  good  paste, 
beat  the  five  whites  of  the  eggs  to 
a  very  strong  froth,  and  mix  it  with 
the  other  ingredients.  Fill  the  mould, 
and  bake  it  of  a  fine  brown  colour. 
Serve  it  bottom  upwards  with  the 
following  sauce :  two  glasses  of 
wine,  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  and  a  piece  of  sugar 
the  size  of  a  walnut.  Simmer  with- 
out boiling,  and  pour  to  and  from 
the  saucepan  till  the  sauce  is  of  a 
proper  thickness,  and  then  put  it 
in  the  dish. 

GERMAN  PUDDINGS.  Melt 
three  ounces  of  butter  in  a  pint  of 
cream,  and  let  it  stand  till  nearly 
cold.  Then  mix  two  ounces  of  fine 
flour,  and  two  ounces  of  sugar,  four 
yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs,  and 
a  little  rose  or  orange  flower  water. 
Bake  in  little  buttered  cups  half  an 
hour.  They  should  be  served  the 
moment  they  are  done,  and  only 
when  going  to  be  eaten,  or  they  will 
not  be  light.  Turn  the  puffs  out  of 
the  cups,  and  serve  with  white  wine 
and  sugar. 

GERMAN  PUFFS.  Mix  together 
two  ounces  of  blanched  almonds 
well  beaten,  a  spoonful  of  rose  wa- 
ter, one  white  and  two  yolks  of  eggs, 
a  spoonful  of  flour,  half  a  pint  of 
cream,  two  ounces  of  butter,  and 
sugar  to  taste.  Butter  some  cups, 
half  fill  them,  and  put  them  in  the 
oven.  Serve  with  white  wine  sauce, 
butter,  and  sugar.  This  is  esteemed 
a  good  middle  dish  for  dinner  or 
supper. 

GIBLETS.  Let  the  giblets  be 
picked  clean  and  washed,  the  feet 
skinned,  the  bill  cut  off,  the  head 
split  in  two,  the  pinion  bones  bro- 


ken, the  liver  and  gizzard  cut  in 
four,  and  the  neck  in  two  pieces. 
Put  them  into  a  pint  of  water,  with 
pepper  and  salt,  an  onion,  and  sweet 
herbs.  Cover  the  saucepan  close, 
and  stew  them  on  a  slow  fire  till 
they  are  quite  tender.  Take  out 
the  oniott  and  herbs,  and  put  them 
into  a  dish  with  the  liquor. 

GIBLET  PIE.  Clean  and  skin 
the  giblets  very  carefully,  stew  them 
with  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
onion,  black  pepper,  and  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  till  nearly  done. 
Let  them  grow  cold  :  and  if  not 
enough  to  fill  the  dish,  lay  at  the 
bottom  two  or  three  slices  of  veal, 
beef,  or  mutton.  Add  the  liquor  of 
the  stew ;  and  when  the  pie  is  baked, 
pour  into  it  a  large  teacupful  of 
cream.  Sliced  apples  added  to  the 
pie  are  a  great  improvement.  Duck 
giblets  will  do  ;  but  goose  giblets 
are  much  to  be  preferred. 

GIBLET  SOUP.  Scald  and  clean 
three  or  four  sets  of  goose  or  duck 
giblets,  and  stew  them  slowly  with 
a  pound  or  two  of  gravy  beef,  scrag 
of  mutton,  or  the  bone  of  a  knuckle 
of  veal,  an  ox  tail,  or  some  shanks 
of  mutton.  Add  a  large  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  a  tea-spoonful  of  white 
pepper,  a  large  spoonful  of  salt, 
and  three  onions.  Put  in  five  pints 
of  water,  cut  each  of  the  gizzards 
into  four  pieces,  and  simmer  till 
they  become  quite  tender.  Skin 
the  $tew  carefully,  add  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  cream,  two  tea-spoonfu!s 
of  mushroom  powder,  and  an  ounce 
of  butter  mixed  with  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  flour.  Let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes,  then  put  it  into  a  tureen, 
add  a  little  salt,  and  serve  up  the 
soup  with  the  giblets.  Instead  of 
cream,  it  may  be  seasoned  with  a 
large  spoonful  of  ketchup,  some 
cayenne,  and  two  glasses  of  sherry. 

GILDED  FRAMES.  These  va- 
luable articles  cannot  be  preserved 
from  fly  stains,  without  covering 
them  with  strips  of  paper,  and  siif- 
fering  them  to  remain  till  the  flics 
147 


G  IN 


GIN 


are  gone.  Previous  to  this,  the 
light  dust  should  be  blown  from  the 
gilding,  and  a  feather  or  a  clean 
brush  lightly  passed  over  it.  Linen 
takes  off  the  gilding,  and  deadens 
its  brightness  ;  it  should  therefore 
never  be  used  for  wiping  it.  Some 
means  should  be  used  to  destroy  the 
flies,  as  they  injure  furniture  of 
every  kind,  and  the  paper  likewise. 
Bottles  hung  about  with  sugar  and 
vinegar,  or  beer,  will  attract  them  ^ 
or  fly  water,  put  into  little  shells 
placed  about  the  room,  but  out  of 
the  reach  of  children.  ' 

GILLIFLOWER  WINE.  To  three 
gallons  of  water  put  six  pounds  of 
the  best  raw  sugar ;  boil  the  sugar 
and  water  together  for  the  space  of 
half  an  hoar,  and  keep  skimming  it 
as  the  scum  rises.  Let  it  stand  to 
cool,  beat  up  three  ounces  of  syrup 
of  betony  with  a  large  spoonful  of 
ale  yeast,  and  put  it  into  the  liquor. 
Prepare  a  peck  of  gilliflowers,  cut 
from  the  stalks,  and  put  them  in  to 
infuse  and  work  together  for  three 
days,  the  whole  being  covered  with 
a  cloth.  Strain  it,  and  put  it  into 
a  cask ;  let  it  settle  for  three  or 
four  weeks,  and  then  bottle  it. 

GINGER  BEER.  To  every  gal- 
lon of  spring  water  a'dd  one  ounce 
of  sliced  white  ginger,  one  pound 
of  lump  sugar,  and  two  ounces  of 
lemon  juice.  B©il  the  mixture  near- 
ly an  hour,  and  take  off"  the  scum  ; 
then  run  it  through  a  hair  sieve  into 
a  tub,  and  when  cool,  add  yeast  in 
the  proportion  of  half  a  pint  to  nine 
gallons.  Keep  it  in  a  temperate 
situation  two  days,  during  which  it 
may  be  stirred  six  or  eight  times. 
Then  put  it  into  a  cask,  which  must 
be  kept  full,  and  the  yeast  taken 
off*  at  the  bunghole  with  a  spoon. 
In  a  fortnight,  add  half  a  pint  of 
fining  to  nine  gallons  of  the  liquor, 
which  will  clear  it  by  ascent,  if  it 
has  been  properly  fermented.  The 
cask  must  still  be  kept  full,  and  the 
rising  particles  taken  ofi^"  at  the  bung- 
hole.  When  fine,  which  may  be 
148 


expected  in  twenty-four  hours,  bot- 
tle and  cork  it  well ;  and  in  summer 
it  will  be  ripe  and  fit  to  drink  in  a 
fortnight. 

GINGER  DROPS.  Beat  two 
ounces  of  fresh  candied  orange  in 
a  mortar,  with  a  little  sugar,  till 
reduced  to  a  paste.  Then  mix  an 
ounce  of  the  powder  of  white  gin- 
ger, with  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar. 
Wet  the  sugar  with  a  little  water, 
and  boil  all  together  to  a  candy, 
and  drop  it  on  white  paper  the  size 
of  mint  drops.  These  make  an  ex- 
cellent stomachic. 

GINGER  WINE.  To  seven  gal- 
lons of  water  put  nineteen  pounds 
of  moist  sugar,  and  boil  it  for  half 
an  hour,  taking  off*  the  scum  as  it 
rises.  Then  take  a  small  quantity 
of  the  liquor,  and  add  to  it  nine 
ounces  of  the  best  ginger  bruised. 
Put  it  all  together,  and  when  nearly 
cold,  chop  nine  pounds  of  raisins 
very  small,  and  put  them  into  a  nine 
gallon  cask,  with  one  ounce  of 
isinglass.  Slice  four  lemons  into 
the  cask,  taking  out  all  the  seeds, 
and  pour  the  liquor  over  them,  with 
half  a  pint  of  fresh  yeast.  Leave 
it  unstopped  for  three  weeks,  and 
in  about  three  months  it  will  be  fit 
for  bottling.  There  will  be  one  gal- 
lon of  the  sugar  and  water  more 
than  the  cask  will  hold  at  first : 
this  must  be  kept  to  fill  up  as  the 
liquor  works  oft",  as  it  is  necessary 
that  the  cask  should  be  kept  full, 
tili  it  has  done  working.  The  rai- 
sins should  be  two  thirds  Malaga, 
and  one  third  Muscadel.  Spring 
and  autumn  are  the  best  seasons  for 
making  this  wine. — Another.  Boil 
nine  quarts  of  water  with  six  pounds 
of  lump  sugar,  the  rinds  of  two  or 
three  lemons  very  thinly  pared,  and 
two  ounces  of  bruised  white  ginger. 
Let  it  boil  half  an  hour',  and  skim 
it  well.  Put  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  raisins  into  the  cask;  and 
when  the  liquor  is  lukewarm,  turn 
it,  adding  the  juice  of  two  lemons 
strained,  with  a  spoonful  and  a  half 


IN 


GLA 


of  yeast.  Stir  it  daily,  then  put  in 
half  a  pint  of  brandy,  and  half  an 
ounce  of  isinglass  shavings.  Stop 
it  up,  and  bottle  it  in  six  or  seven 
weeks.  The  lemon  peel  is  not  to 
be  put  into  the  barrel. 

GINGERBREAD.  Mix  with  two 
pounds  of  flour,  h|^f  a  pound  of 
treacle,  and  half  a  pound  of  butter, 
adding  an  ounce  of  ginger  finely 
powdered  and  sifted,  and  three  quar- 
ters of  an  ounce  of  caraway  seeds. 
Having  worked  it  very  much,  set  it 
to  rise  before  the  fire.  Then  roll 
out  the  paste,  cut  it  into  any  shape, 
and  bake  it  on  tins.  If  to  be  made 
into  sweetmeats,  add  some  candid 
orange-peel,  shred  into  small  pieces. 
— Another  sort.  To  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  treacle,  put  one  egg 
beaten  and  strained.  Mix  together 
four  ounces  of  brown  sugar,  half  an 
oimce  of  sifted  ginger,  and  a  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  each  of  cloves, 
mace,  allspice,  and  nutmeg,  beaten 
as  fine  as  possible ;  also  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  coriander  and  cara- 
way seeds.  Melt  a  pound  of  butter, 
and  mix  with  the  above,  adding  as 
much  flour  as  will  knead  it  into  a 
pretty  stiff  paste.  Roll  it  out,  cut 
it  into  cakes,  bake  them  on  tin 
plates  in  a  quick  oven,  and  a  little 
time  will  do  them.  Gingerbread 
buttons  or  drops  may  be  made  of 
a  part  of  the  paste. — A  plain  sort 
of  gingerbread  may  be  prepared  as 
follows.  Mix  three  pounds  of  flour 
with  half  a  pound  of  butteri  four 
ounces  of  brown  sugar,  and  half  an 
ounce  of  pounded  ginger.  Make  it 
into  a  paste,  with  a  pound  and  a 
quarter  of  warm  treacle.  Or  make 
the  gingerbread  without  butter,  by 
mixing  two  pounds  of  treacle  with 
the  following  ingredients.  Four 
ounces  each  of  orange,  lemon,  citron, 
and  candied  ginger,  all  thinly  sliced ; 
one  ounce  each  of  coriander  seeds, 
caraways,  and  pounded  ginger,  ad- 
ding as  much  flour  as  will  make  it 
into  a  soft  paste.     Lay  it  in  cakes 


on  tin  plates,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick 
oven.*  Keep  it  dry  in  a  covered 
earthen  vessel,  and  the  gingerbread 
will  be  good  for  some  months.  If 
cakes  or  biscuits  be  kept  in  paper, 
or  a  drawer,  the  taste  will  be  dis- 
agreeable. A  tureen,  or  a  pan  and 
cover,  will  preserve  them  long  and 
moist ;  or  if  intended  to  be  crisp, 
laying  them  before  the  fire,  or  keep- 
ing them  in  a  dry  canister,  will 
make  them^so.  * 

GINGERBREAD  NUTS.  Care- 
fully melt  half  a  pound  of  butter, 
and  stir  it  up  in  two  pounds  of  trea- 
cle. Add  an  ounce  of  pounded 
ginger^  two  ounces  of  preserved  le- 
mon and  orange  peel,  two  ounces 
of  preserved  angelica  cut  small,  one 
of  coriander  seed  pounded,  and  the 
same  of  caraway  whole.  Mix  them 
together,  with  two  eggs,  and  as 
much  flour  as  will  bring  it  to  a  fine 
paste.  Make  it  into  nuts,  put  them 
on  a  tin  plate,  and  bake  them  in  a 
quick  oven. 

GLASS.  Broken  glass  may  be 
mended  with  the  same  cement  as 
china,  or  if  it  be  only  cracked,  it 
will  be  suflicient  to  moisten  the  part  -^u 
with  the  white  of  an  egg,  strewing  jf^ 
it  over  with  a  little  powdered  lime, 
and  instantly  applying  a  piece  of 
fine  linen.  Another  cement  for 
glass  is  prepared  from  two  parts  of 
litharge,  one  of  quick  lime,  and  one 
of  flint  glass,  each  separately  and 
finely  powdered,  and  the  whole 
worked  up  into  a  paste  with  drying  , 
oil.  This  compound  is  very  durable, 
and  acquires  a  greater  degree  of 
hardness  when  immersed  in  water. 

GLASSES.  These  frail  and  ex- 
pensive articles  may  be  rendered 
less  brittle,  and  better  able  to  bear 
sudden  changes  of  temperature,  by 
first  plunging  them  into  cold  water, 
then  gradually  heating  the  water  till 
it  boils,  and  suff'ering  it  to  cool  in 
the  open  air.  Glasses  of  every  de- 
scription, used  for  the  table,  will 
afterwards  bear  boiling  water  sud- 
149 


GLO 


GOO 


deiily  poured  into  them,  without 
breaking.  When  they  have  been 
tarnished  by  age  or  accident,  their 
lustre  may  be  restored  by  strewing 
on  them  some  fuller's  earth,  care- 
fully powdered  and  cleared  of  sand 
and  dirt,  and  then  rubbing  them 
gently  with  a  linen  cloth,  or  a  little 
putty. 

GLOVES.  Leather  gloves  may 
be  repaired,  cleaned,  and  dyed  of  a 
fine  yellow,  by  steeping  a  little 
saffron  in  boiling  water  for  about 
twelve  hours  ;  and  having  lightly 
sewed  up  the  tops  of  the  gloves,  to 
prevent  the  dye  from  staining  the 
insides,  wet  them  over  with  a  sponge 
or  soft  brush  dipped  in  the  liquid. 
A  teacupful  will  be  sufficient  for  a 
single  pair. 

GLOUCESTER  CHEESE.  This 
article  is  made  of  milk  immediately 
from  the  cow  ;  and  if  it  be  too  hot 
in  the  summer,  a  little  skim  milk  or 
water  is  added  to  it,  before  the  ren- 
net is  put  in.  As  soon  as  the  curd 
is  come  it  is  broken  small,  and  clear- 
ed of  the  whey.  The  curd  is  set  in 
the  press  for  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  in  order  to  extract  the  re- 
_jj^>  mainder  of  the  liquid.  It  is  then 
put  into  the  cheese  tub  again, 
broken  small,  and  scalded  with  wa- 
ter mixed  with  a  little  whey.  When 
the  curd  is  settled,  the  liquor  is 
poured  off ;  the  curd  is  put  into  a 
vat,  and  worked  up  with  a  little  salt 
when  about  half  full.  The  vat  is 
then  filled  up,  and  the  whole  is  turn- 
ed two  or  three  times  in  it,  the  edges 
being  pared,  and  the  middle  round- 
ed up  at  each  turning.  At  length, 
the  curd  being  put  into  a  cloth,  it  is 
placed  in  the  press,  then  laid  on  the 
shelves,  and  turned  every  day  till 
it  becomes  sufficiently  firm  to  bear 
washing. 

.GLOUCESTER  JELLY.  Take 
rice,  sago,  pearl  barley,  hartshorn 
shavings,  and  eringo  root,  each  one 
ounce.  Simmer  with  three  pints  of 
water  till  reduced  to  one,  and  then 
150 


strain  it.  When  cold  it  will  be  a 
jelly ;  of  which  give,  dissolved  in 
wine,  milk,  or  broth,  in  change  with 
other  nourishment. 

GNATS.  The  stings  of  these 
troublesome  insects  are  generally 
attended  with  a  painful  swelling. 
One  of  the  most  effectual  remedies 
consists  of  an  equal  mixture  of  tur- 
pentine and  sweet  oil,  which  should 
immediately  be  applied  to  the  wound- 
ed part,  and  it  will  afford  relief  in 
a  little  time.  Olive  oil  alone,  un- 
salted  butter,  or  fresh  lard,  if  rub- 
bed on  without  delay,  will  also  be 
found  to  answer  the  same  purpose. 
They  may  be  destroyed  by  fumiga- 
tion, the  same  as  for  flies. 

GOLD.  To  clean  gold,  and  re- 
store its  lustre,  dissolve  a  little  sal 
ammoniac  in  common  wine.  Boil 
the  gold  in  it,  and  it  will  soon  re- 
cover its  brilliance.  To  clean  gold 
or  silver  lace,  sew  it  up  in  a  linen 
cloth,  and  boil  it  with  two  ounces 
of  soap  in  a  pint  of  water:  after- 
wards wash  the  lace  in  clear  water. 
When  the  lace  happens  to  be  tar- 
nished, the  best  liquor  for  restoring 
its  lustre  is  spirits  of  wine,  which 
should  be  warmed  before  it  is  ap- 
plied. This  application  will  also 
preserve  the  colour  of  silk  or  em- 
broidery. 

GOLD  RINGS.  If  a  ring  sticks 
tight  on  the  finger,  and  cannot  easi- 
ly be  removed,  touch  it  with  mer- 
cury, and  it  will  become  so  brittle 
that*  slight  blow  will  break  it. 

GOOSE  FEATHERS.  These  be- 
ing deemed  particularly  valuable, 
the  birds  in  some  counties  are  pluck- 
ed four  or  five  times  in  a  year.  The 
first  operation  is  performed  in  the 
spring  for  feathers  and  quills,  and 
is  repeated  for  feathers  only,  be- 
tween that  period  and  Michaelmas. 
Though  the  plucking  of  geese  ap- 
pears to  be  a  barbarous  custom,  yet 
experience  has  proved,  that  if  care- 
fully done,  the  birds  thrive  better, 
and  are  more  healthy,  when  strip- 


GOO 


GOO 


ped  of  their  feathers,  than  if  they 
were  left  to  drop  them  by  moulting. 
Giaese  intended  for  breeding  in  farm 
yards,  and  which  are  called  old 
geese,  may  be  plucked  three  times 
a  year,  at  an  interval  of  seven  weeks, 
but  not  oftener.  Every  one  should 
be  thirteen  or  fourteen  weeks  old 
before  they  are  subject  to  this  ope- 
ration, or  they  are  liable  to  perish 
in  cold  summers ;  and  if  intended 
for  the  table,  they  would  become 
poor  and  lose  their  quality,  were 
they  stripped  of  their  feathers  at  an 
earlier  period. 

GOOSE  PIE.  Quarter  a  goose, 
season  it  well,  put  it  in  a  baking 
dish,  and  lay  pieces  of  butter  over 
it.  Put  on  a  raised  crust,  and  bake 
it  in  a  moderate  oven.  To  make  a 
richer  pie,  forcemeat  may  be  added, 
and  slices  of  tongue.  Duck  pie  is 
made  in  the  same  manner. 

GOOSE  SAUCE.  Put  into  melt- 
ed butter  a  spoonful  of  sorrel  juice, 
a  little  sugar,  and  some  scalded 
gooseberries.  Pour  it  into  boats, 
and  send  it  hot  to  table. 

GOOSEBERRY  FOOL.  Put  the 
fruit  into  a  stone  jar,  with  some 
good  Lisbon  sugar.  Set  the  jar  on 
a  stove,  or  in  a  saucepan  of  water 
over  the  fire  :  if  the  former,  a  large 
spoonful  of  water  should  be  added 
to  the  fruit.  When  it  is  done  enough 
to  pulp,  press  it  through  a  cullender. 
Have  ready  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
new  milk,  and  a  tea-cupful  of  raw 
cream,  boiled  together,  or  ai^egg 
instead  of  the  latter.  When  cold, 
sweeten  it  pretty  well  with  fine  Lis- 
bon sugar,  and  mix  the  pulp  with  it 
by  degrees. 

GOOSEBERRY  HOPS.  Gather 
the  largest  green  gooseberries  of  the 
walnut  kind,  and  slit  the  tops  into 
four  quarters,  leaving  the  stalk  end 
whole.  Pick  out  the  seeds,  and 
with  a  strong  needle  and  thread  fas- 
ten five  or  six  together,  by  running 
the  thread  through  the  bottoms,  till 
they  are  of  the  size  of  a  hop.  Lay 
vine  leaves  at  the  bottom  of  a  tin 


preserving-pan,  cover  them  with  the 
hops,  then  a  layer  of  leaves,  and  so 
on  :  lay  a  good  many  on  the  top, 
and  fill  the  pan  with  water.  Stop 
it  down  so  close  that  no  steam  can 
escape,  set  it  by  a  slow  fire  till  scald- 
ing hot,  and  then  take  it  off  to  cool* 
Repeat  the  operation  till  the  goose- 
berries, on  being  opened,  are  found 
to  be  of  a  good  green.  Then  drain 
them  on  sieves,  and  make  a  thin 
syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint 
of  water,  well  boiled  and  skimmed. 
When  the  syrup  is  half  cold,  put  in 
the  fruit ;  give  it  a  boil  up,  and  re- 
peat it  thrice.  Gooseberry  hops 
look  well  and  eat  best  dried,  and  iu, 
this  case  they  may  be  set  to  dry  IH^ 
a  week.  But  if  to  be  kept  moist, 
make  a  syrup  in  the  above  propor- 
tions, adding  a  slice  of  ginger  in  the 
boiling.  When  skimmed  and  clear, 
give  the  gooseberries  one  boil,  and 
pour  the  syrup  cold  over  them.  If  * 
found  too  sour,  a  little  sugar  may 
be  added,  before  the  hops  thaf  are 
for  drying  receive  their  last  boil. 
The  extra  syrup  will  serve  for  pies, 
or  go  towards  other  sweetmeats. 

GOOSEBERRY  JAM.  Gather 
some  ripe  gooseberries,  of  the  clear 
white  or  green  sort,  pick  them  clean 
and  weigh  them.  Allow  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  lump  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  fruit,  and  half  a  pint  of 
water.  Boil  and  skim  the  sugar  and 
water,  then  put  in  the  fruit,  and  boil 
it  gently  till  it  is  quite  clear.  Break 
the  gooseberries  into  jam,  and  put 
into  small  pots. — Another.  Gather  ^ 
some  ripe  gooseberries  in  dry  wea- 
ther, of  the  red  hairy  sort,  and  pick 
off  the  heads  and  tails.  Put  twelve 
pounds  of  them  into  a  preserving 
pan,  with  a  pint  of  currant  juice, 
drawn  as  for  jelly.  Boil  them  pretty 
quick,  and  beat  them  with  a  spoon  ; 
when  they  begin  to  break,  add  six 
pounds  of  white  Lisbon  sugar,  and 
simmer  them  slowly  to  a  jam.  They 
require  long  boiling,  or  they  will  not 
keep;  but  they  make  an  excellent 
jam  for  tarts  and  puffs.  When  the 
151 


GOO*. 


GOO 


jam  is  put  into  jars,  examine  it  after 
two  or  three  days  ;  and  if  the  syrup 
and  fruit  separate,  tiie  whole  must 
be  boiled  again.  In  making  white 
gooseberry  jam,  clarified  sugar 
should  be  used  ;  and  in  all  cases 
great  care  must  be  taken  to  prevent 
the  fruit  from  burning  to  the  bottom 
of  the  pan. 

GOOSEBERRY  PUDDING.  Stew 
some  gooseberries  in  a  jar  over  a 
hot  hearth,  or  in  a  saucepan  of  wa- 
ter, till  reduced  to  a  pulp.  Take  a 
pint  of  the  juice  pressed  through  a 
coarse  sieve,  and  mix  it  with  three 
eggs  beaten  and  strained.  Add  an 
^unce  and  a  half  of  butter,  sweeten 
'u  well,  put  a  crust  round  the  dish, 
and  bake  it.  A  few  crumbs  of  roll 
should  be  mixed  with  the  above  to 
give  it  a  little  consistence,  or  four 
ounces  of  Naples  biscuits. 

GOOSEBERRY  TRIFLE.  Scald 
as  much  fruit  as  when  pulped  through 
a  sieve,  will  cover  the  bottom  of  a 
dish  intended  to  be  used.  Mix  with 
it  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon  grated 
line,  sweetened  with  sugar.  Put 
any  quantity  of  common  custard 
over  it,  and  a  whip  on  the  top,  as 
for  other  trifles. 

GOOSEBERRY  VINEGAR.  Boil 
some  spring  water  ;  and  when  cold, 
put  to  every  three  quarts,  a  quart 
of  bruised  gooseberries  in  a  large 
tub.  Let  them  remain  two  or  three 
days,  stirring  often ;  then  strain 
through  a  hair  bag,  and  to  each  gal- 
Ion  of  liquor  add  a  pound  of  the 
coarsest  sugar.  Put  it  into  a  barrel, 
with  yeast  spread  upon  a  toast,  and 
cover  the  bung  hole  with  a  piece  of 
slate.  The  greater  the  quantity  of 
sugar  and  fruit,  the  stronger  the 
vinegar. 

GOOSEBERRY  WINE.  When 
the  weather  is  dry,  gather  goose- 
berries about  the  time  they  are  half 
ripe.  Pick  them  clean  as  much  as 
a  peck  into  a  convenient  vessel,  and 
bruise  them  with  a  piece  of  wood, 
taking  as  much  care  as  possible  to 
keep  the  seeds  whole.  Now  having 
1 52 


put  the  pulp  into  a  canvas  bag,  press 
out  all  the  juice  ;  and  to  every  gal- 
lon of  the  gooseberries,  add  about 
three  pounds  offine  loaf  sugar.  Mix 
the  whole  together  by  stirring  it 
with  a  stick,  and  as  soon  as  the  su- 
gar is  quite  dissolved,  pour  it  into 
a  cask  which  will  exactly  hold  it. 
If  the  quantity  be  about  eight  or 
nine  gallons,  let  it  stand  a  fortnight : 
if  twenty  gallons,  forty  days,  and  so 
on  in  proportion.  Set  it  in  a  cool 
place  ;  and  after  standing  the  pro- 
per time,  draw  it  off  from  the  lees. 
Put  it  into  another  clean  vessel  of 
equal  size,  or  into  the  same,  after 
pouring  out  the  lees  and  making  it 
clean.  Let  a  cask  of  ten  or  twelve 
gallons  stand  for  about  three  months, 
and  twenty  gallons  for  five  months, 
after  which  it  will  be  fit  for  bottling 
off. 

GOOSEBERRIES  PRESERVED. 
Gather  some  dry  gooseberries  of 
the  hairy  sort,  before  the  seeds  be- 
come large,  and  take  care  not  to 
cut  them  in  taking  off  the  stalks  and 
buds.  If  gathered  in  the  damp,  or 
the  gooseberry  skins  are  the  least 
broken  in  the  preparation,  the  fruit 
■will  mould.  Fill  some  jars  or  wide- 
mouthed  bottles,  put  the  corks 
loosely  in,  and  set  the  bottles  up 
to  the  neck  in  a  kettle  of  water. 
When  the  fruit  looks  scalded,  take 
them  out ;  and  when  perfectly  cold, 
cork  them  down  close,  and  rosin 
the  top.  Dig  a  trench  sufficiently 
deep  to  receive  all  the  bottles,  and 
cover  them  with  the  earth  a  foot  and 
a  half.  When  a  frost  comes  on,  a 
little  fresh  litter  from  the  stable  will 
prevent  the  ground  from  hardening, 
so  that  the  fruit  may  more  easily  be 
dug  up. — Green  gooseberries  may 
also  be  preserved  for  winter  use, 
without  bedding  them  in  the  earth. 
Scald  them  as  above,  and  when 
cold,  fill  the  bottles  up  with  cold 
water.  Cork  and  rosin  them  down, 
and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. — 
Another  way.  Having  prepared  the 
gooseberries   as    above,    prepare   a 


GOO 


^  GR  A 


kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  put  into 
it  as  much  roche  alum  as  will  har- 
den the  water,  or  give  it  a  little 
roughness  when  dissolved  :  but  if 
there  be  too  much  it  will  spoil  the 
fruit.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  large 
sieve  with  gooseberries,  without  lay- 
ing one  upon  another  ;  and  hold  the 
sieve  in  the  water  till  the  fruit  be- 
gins to  look  scalded  on  the  outside. 
Turn  them  gently  out  of  the  sieve 
on  a  cloth  on  the  dresser,  cover  them 
with  another  cloth,  putting  some 
more  to  be  scalded,  till  the  whole 
are  finished.  Observe  not  to  put 
one  quantity  upon  another,  or  they 
will  become  too  soft.  The  next  day 
pick  out  any  bad  or  broken  ones, 
bottle  the  rest,  and  fill  up  the  bot- 
tles with  the  alum  water  in  which 
they  were  scalded.  If  the  water  be 
left  in  the  kettle,  or  in  a  glazed  pan, 
it  will  spoil ;  it  must  therefore  be 
quickly  put  into  the  bottles.  Goose- 
berries prepared  in  this  way,  and 
stopped  down  close,  will  make  as 
fine  tarts  as  when  fresh  from  the 
trees. — Another  way.  In  dry  wea- 
ther pick  some  full  grown  but  un- 
ripe gooseberries,  top  arid  tail  them, 
and  put  them  into  wide-mouthed 
bottles.  Stop  them  lightly  with 
n€w  velvet  corks,  put  them  into  the 
oven  after  the  bread  is  drawn,  and 
let  them  stand  till  they  are  shrunk 
one  fourth.  Take  them  out  of  the 
oven,  fasten  the  corks  in  tight,  cut 
oft'  the  tops,  and  rosin  them  down 
close.  Set  them  in  a  dry  place ; 
and  if  well  secured  from  the  air, 
they  will  keep  the  year  round.  Cur- 
rants and  damsons  may  be  preserved 
in  the  same  way. 

GOOSEGRASS  OINTMENT. 
Melt  some  hog's  lard,  add  as  much 
clivers  or  goosegrass  as  the  lard  will 
moisten,  and  boil  them  together  over 
a  slow  fire.  Keep  the  mixture  stir- 
ring till  it  becomes  a  little  brown, 
and  then  strain  it  through  a  cloth. 
When  cold,  take  the  ointment  from 
the  water,  and  put  it  up  in  galli- 
pots. 


GOUT.  Gouty  patients  are  re- 
quired to  abstain  from  all  fermented 
and  spirituous  liquors,  and  to  use 
wine  very  moderately  ;  carefully 
to  avoid  all  fat,  rancid,  and  salted 
provisions,  and  high  seasoned  dishes 
of  every  description.  The  constant 
use  of  barley  bread  is  recommended, 
with  large  doses  of  powdered  gin- 
ger boiled  in  milk  for  breakfast. 
Absorbent  powders  of  two  scruples 
of  magnesia,  and  three  or  four  grains 
each  of  rhubarb  and  purified  kali, 
should  be  taken  during  the  inter- 
vals of  gouty  fits,  and  repeated 
every  other  morning  for  several 
weeks.  The  feet  should  be  kept 
warm,  sinapisms  frequently  applied 
to  them,  and  the  part  affected  should 
be  covered  with  fiannel. 

GOUT  CORDIAL.  Take  four 
pounds  of  sun  raisins  sliced  and 
stoned,  two  ounces  of  senna,  one 
ounce  of  fennel  seed,  one  of  cori- 
ander, half  an  ounce  of  cochineal, 
half  an  ounce  of  saff'ron,  half  an 
ounce  of  stick  liquorice,  and  half  a 
pound  of  rhubarb  ;  infuse  them  all 
in  two  gallons  of  brandy,  and  let  it 
stand  for  ten  days.  Stir  it  occa- 
sionally, then  strain  it  off,  and  bottle 
it.  Take  a  small  wine-glass  full, 
when  the  gout  is  in  the  head  or 
stomach  ;  and  if  the  pain  be  not 
removed,  take  two  large  spoonfuls 
more. — Or  take  six  drams  of  opium, 
half  an  ounce  of  soap  of  tartar,  half 
an  ounce  of  castile  soap,  one  dram 
of  grated  nutmeg,  three  drams  of 
camphor,  two  scruples  of  saffron, 
and  nine  ounces  of  sweet  spirit  of 
sal-ammoniac.  Put  them  all  into  a 
wine  flask  in  a  sand-heat  for  ten 
days,  shaking  it  occasionally  till  the 
last  day  or  two  :  then  pour  it  off 
clear,  and  keep  it  stopped  up  close 
for  use.  Take  thirty  or  forty  drops 
in  a  glass  of  peppermint  two  hours 
after  eating  ;  it  may  also  be  taken 
two  or  three  times  in  the  day  or 
night  if  required. 

GRANARIES.     These  deposita- 
ries are  very  liable  to  be  infested 
X  133 


G  R  A     • 


G  R  A 


with  weasels,  and  various  kinds  of 
insects.  To  prevent  their  depreda- 
tions, the  floors  of  granaries  should 
be  laid  with  poplars  of  Lombardy. 

GRAPES.  To  preserve  this  va- 
luable fruit,  prepare  a  cask  or  bar- 
rel, by  carefully  closing  up  its  cre- 
vices to  prevent  access  of  the  ex- 
ternal air.  Place  a  layer  of  bran, 
which  has  been  well  dried  in  an 
oven ;  upon  this  place  a  layer  of 
bunches  of  grapes,  well  cleaned, 
and  gathered  in  the  afternoon  of  a 
dry  day,  before  they  are  perfectly 
ripe.  Proceed  then  with  alternate 
layers  of  bran  and  grapes  till  the 
barrel  is  full,  taking  care  that  the 
bunches  of  grapes  do  not  touch  each 
other,  and  to  let  the  last  layer  be  of 
bran  ;  then  close  the  barrel  so  that 
the  air  may  not  be  able  to  penetrate. 
Grapes  thus  packed  will  keep  for 
a  twelvemonth.  To  restore  their 
freshness,  cut  the  end  of  each  bunch, 
and  put  that  of  white  grapes  into 
white  wine,  and  that  of  black  grapes 
into  red  wine,  as  flowers  are  put  in- 
to water  to  keep  them  fresh.  It  is 
customary  in  France  to  pack  grapes 
for  the  London  market  in  saw  dust, 
but  it  must  be  carefully  dried  with 
a  gentle  heat,  or  the  turpentine  and 
other  odours  of  the  wood  will  not 
fail  to  injure  the  fruit.  Oak  saw 
dust  will  answer  the  purpose  best. 

GRAPE  WINE.  To  every  gal- 
lon of  ripe  grapes  put  a  gallon  of 
soft  water,  bruise  the  grapes,  let 
them  stand  a  week  without  stirring, 
and  draw  the  liquor  oft'  fine.  To 
every  gallon  of  liquor  allow  three 
pounds  of  lump  sugar,  put  the  whole 
into  a  vessel',  but  do  not  stop  it  till 
it  has  done  hissing ;  then  stop  it 
close,  and  in  six  months  it  will  be 
fit  for  bottling. — A  better  wine, 
though  smaller  in  quantity,  will  be 
made  by  leaving  out  the  water,  and 
diminishing  the  quantity  of  sugar. 
Water  is  necessary  only  where  the 
juice  is  so  scanty,  or  so  thick,  as  in 
cjj^wslip,  balm,  or  black  currant  wine, 
that  it  could Tiot  be  used  without  it. 
154 


GRAVEL.  The  gout  or  rheuma- 
tism has  a  tendency  to  produce  this 
disorder  ;  it  is  also  promoted  by  the 
use  of  sour  liquor,  indigestible  food, 
especially  cheese,  and  by  a  sedenta- 
ry life.  Perspiration  should  be  as- 
sisted by  gentle  means,  particularly 
by  rubbing  with  a  warm  flannel ; 
the  diet  regulated  by  the  strictest 
temperance,  and  moderate  exercise 
is  not  to  be  neglected.  For  medi- 
cine, take  the  juice  of  a  horseradish, 
made  into  a  thin  syrup  by  mixing  it 
with  sugar ;  a  spoonful  or  two  to  be 
taken  every  three  or  four  hours. 

GRAVEL  WALKS.  To  preserve 
garden  walks  from  moss  and  weeds, 
water  them  frequently  with  brine, 
or  salt  and  water,  both  in  the  spring 
and  in  autumn.  Worms  may  be 
destroyed  by  an  infusion  of  walnut- 
tree  leaves,  or  by  pouring  into  the 
holes  a  ley  made  of  wood  ashes  and 
lime.  If  fruit  trees  are  sprinkled 
with  it,  the  ravages  of  insects  will 
be  greatly  prevented. 

GRAVIES.  A  few  general  ob-. 
servations  are  necessary  on  the  sub-*J 
ject  of  soups  and  gravies.  When 
there  is  any  fear  of  gravy  meat  being 
spoiled  before  it  be  wanted,  it  should 
be  well  seasoned,  and  lightly  fried, 
in  order  to  its  keeping  a  day  or  two 
longer ;  but  the  gravy  is  best  when 
the  juices  are  fresh.  When  soups 
or  gr.avies  are  to  be  put  by,  let  them 
be  changed  every  day  into  fresh 
scalded  pans.  Whatever  liquor  has 
vegetables  boiled  in  it,  is  apt  to 
turn  sour  much  sooner  than  the 
juices  of  meat,  and  gravy  should 
never  be  kept  in  any  kind  of  metal. 
When  fat  remains  on  any  soup,  a 
tea-cupful  of  flour  and  water  mixed 
quite  smooth,  and  boiled  in,  will 
take  it  ofi^.  If  richness  or  greater 
consistence  be  required,  a  good 
lump  of  butter  mixed  with  flour, 
and  boiled  in  the  soup  or  gravy,  will 
impart  either  of  these  qualities. 
Long  boiling  is  necessary  to  obtain 
the  full  flavour  ;  and  gravies  and 
soups  are  best  made  the  day  before 


GRA 


GRA 


they  are  wanted.  They  are  also 
much  better  when  the  meat  is  laid 
in  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  stew- 
ed with  herbs,  roots,  and  butter, 
than  when  water  is  put  to  the  meat 
at  first;  and  the  gravy  that  is  drawn 
from  the  meat,  should  almost  be 
dried  up  before  the  water  is  added. 
The  sediment  of  gravies  that  have 
stood  to  be  cold,  should  not  be  used 
in  cooking.  When  onions  are  strong, 
boil  a  turnip  with  them,  if  for  sauce ; 
and  this  will  make  them  mild  and 
pleasant.  If  soups  or  gravies  are 
too  weak,  do  not  cover  them  in  boil- 
ing, that  the  watery  particles  may 
evaporate.  A  clear  jelly  of  cow 
heels  is  very  useful  to  keep  in  the 
house,  being  a  great  improvement 
to  soups  and  gravies.  Truffles  and 
morels  thicken  soups  and  sauces, 
and  give  them  a  fine  flavour.  The 
way  is  to  wash  half  an  ounce  of 
each  carefully,  then  simmer  them 
a  few  minutes  in  water,  and  add 
them  with  the  liquor  to  boil  in  the 
sauce  till  quite  tender.  As  to  the 
materials  of  which  gravy  is  to  be 
made,  beef  skirts  will  make  as  good 
as  any  other  meat.  Beef  kidney,  or 
milt,  cut  into  small  pieces,  will  an- 
swer the*purpose  very  well ;  and  so 
will  the  shank  end  of  mutton  that 
has  been  dressed,  if  much  be  want- 
ed. The  shank  bones  of  mutton, 
if  well  soaked  and  cleaned,  are  a 
great  improvement  to  the  richness 
of  the  gravy.  Taragon  gives  the 
flavour  of  French  cookery,  and  in 
high  gravies  it  is  a  great  improve- 
ment ;  but  it  should  be  added  only 
a  short  time  before  serving.  To  draw 
gravy  that  will  keep  for  a  week,  cut 
some  lean  beef  thin,  put  it  into  a 
fryingpan  without  any  butter,  cover 
it  up,  and  set  it  on  the  fire,  taking 
care  that  it  does  not  burn.  Keep 
it  OH  the  fire  till  all  the  gravy  that 
comes  out  of  the  meat  is  absorbed, 
then  add  as  much  water  as  will 
cover  the  meat,  and  keep  it  stewing. 
Put  in  some  herbs,  onions,  spice, 
aad  a  piece  of  lean  ham.     Let  it 


simmer  till  it  is  quite  rich,  and  keej> 
it  in  a  cool  place  ;  but  do  not  re- 
move the  fat  till  the  gravy  is  to  be 
used. 

GRAVY  FOR  FOWL.  When 
there  is  no  meat  to  make  gravy  of, 
wash  the  feet  of  the  fowl  nicely,  and 
cut  them  and  the  neck  small.  Sim- 
mer them  with  a  little  bread  brown- 
ed, a  slice  of  onion,  a  sprig  of  pars- 
ley and  thyme,  some  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  the  liver  and  gizzard,  in  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  water,  till  half 
wasted.  Take  out  the  liver,  bruise 
it,  and  strain  the  liquor  to  it.  Then 
thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  and 
a  tea-spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup 
will  make  the  gravy  very  good. 

GRAVY  FOR  WILD  FOWL. 
Set  on  a  saucepan  with  half  a  pint 
of  veal  gravy,  adding  half  a  dozeft 
leaves  of  basil,  a  small  onion,  and 
a  roll  of  orange  or  lemon  peel.  Let 
it  boil  up  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
strain  it  off".  Put  to  the  clear  gravy 
the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange,  Haifa 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  the  same  of  pep- 
per, and  a  glass  of  red  wine.  Shalot 
and  cayenne  may  be  added.  This 
is  an  excellent  sauce  for  all  kinds  of 
wild  water-fowl,  and  should  be  s«nt 
.up  hot  in  a  boat,  as  some  persons 
like  wild  fowl  very  little  done,  and 
without  any  sauce.  The  common 
way  of  gashing  the  breast,  and 
squeezing  in  a  lemon,  cools  and  har- 
dens the  flesh,  and  compels  every 
one  to  eat  it  that  way,  whether  they 
approve  of  it  or  not. 

GRAVY  FOR  MUTTON.  To 
make  mutton  taste  like  venison, 
provide  for  it  the  following  gravy. 
Pick  a  very  stale  woodcock  or  snipe, 
and  cut  it  to  pieces,  after  having 
removed  the  bag  from  the  entrails. 
Simmer  it  in  some  meat  gravy,  with- 
out seasoning;  then  strain  it,  and 
serve  it  with  the  mutton. 

GRAVY  SOUP.  Wash  and  soak 
a  leg  of  beef ;  break  the  bone,  and 
set  it  on  the  fire  with  a  gallon  of 
water,  a  large  bunch  of  sweet  herb*, 
two  large  onions  sliced  and  fried 
155 


ORE 


GRE 


to  a  fiue  brown,  but  not  burnt ;  add 
two  blades  of  mace,  three  cloves, 
twenty  berries  of  allspice,  and  forty 
black  peppers.  Stew  the  soup  till 
it  is  rich,  and  then  take  out  the 
meat,  which  may  be  eaten  at  the 
kitchen  table,  with  a  little  of  the 
i^ravy.  Next  day  take  off  the  fat, 
.vhich  will  serve  for  basting,  or  for 
common  pie  crust.  Slice  some  car- 
ilots,  turnips,  and  celery,  and  sim- 
mer them  till  tender.  If  not  ap- 
jroved,  they  can  be  taken  out  before 
the  soup  is  sent  to  table,  but  the 
flavour  will  be  a  considerable  ad- 
dition. Boil  vermicelli  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,, and  add  to  it  a  large 
spoonful  of  soy,  and  one  of  mush- 
room ketchup.  A  French  roll 
should  be  made  hot,  then  soaked  in 
the  soup,  and  served  in  the  tureen. 

GRAVY  WITHOUT  MEAT. 
Put  into  a  bason  a  glass  of  small 
beer,  a  glass  of  water,  some  pepper 
and  salt,  grated  lemon  peel,  a  bruised 
clove  or  two,  and  a  spoonful  of  wal- 
nut pickle,  or  mushroom  ketchup. 
Slice  an  onion,  flour  and  fry  it  in  a 
piece  of  butter  till  it  is  brown.  Then 
turn  all  the  above  into  a  small  tosser, 
with  the  onion,  and  simmer  it  cover- 
ed for  twenty  minutes.  Strain  it 
oflf  for  use,  and  when  cold  take  oflf 
the  fat. 

GRAYLINE.  Having  scaled  and 
washed  the  fish,  then  dry  them. 
Dust  them  over  with  flour,  and  lay 
them  separately  on  a  board  before 
*he  fire.  Fry  them  of  a  fine  colour 
with  fresh  dripping ;  serve  them 
with  crimp  parsley,  and  plain  butter. 
Perch  and  tench  may  be  done  the 
same  Way. 

GREASE  EXTRACTED.  The 
ashes  of  burnt  bones  finely  powder- 
ed, or  calcined  hartshorn,  heated 
over  the  fire  in  a  clean  vessel,  and 
laid  on  each  side  of  the  grease  spot, 
if  on  books  or  paper,  with  a  weight 
laid  upon  it  to  assist  the  effect,  will 
completely  remove  it ;  or  the  pow- 
der may  be  wrapped  in  thin  muslin, 
and  applied  in  the  same  manner. 
15G 


When  prints  get  foul  and  dirty,  they 
may  readily  be  cleaned  in  the  same 
manner  as  linen  is  bleached,  by  be- 
ing exposed  to  the  sun  and  air,  and 
frequently  wetted  with  clean  water. 
If  this  do  not  fully  succeed,  the  print 
may  be  soaked  in  hot  water ;  and  if 
pasted  on  canvas,  it  should  first  be 
taken  off"  by  dipping  it  in  boiling 
water,  which  will  loosen  it  from  the 
canvas.  The  dirt  occasioned  by 
flies,  may  be  gently  taken  off"  with 
a  wet  sponge,  after  the  print  has 
been  well  soaked.  Spots  of  white- 
wash may  be  removed  by  spirit  of 
sea  salt  diluted  with  water. — If 
grease  spots  appear  in  leather,  a 
diflferent  process  must  be  pursued. 
A  paste  made  of  mealy  potatoes, 
dry  mustard,  and  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine, mixed  together,  and  applied  to 
the  spot,  will  extract  the  grease 
from  leather,  if  rubbed  oflf  after  it 
has  been  allowed  sufficient  time  to 
dry.  A  little  vinegar  may  be  ad- 
ded, to  render  the  application  more 

A  fTjp  p  f  I]  n  I 

GREEN  FRUIT.  Green  peach- 
es, plums,  or  other  fruit,  should  be 
put  into  a  preserving  pan  of  spring 
water,  covered  with  vine  leaves,  and 
set  over  a  clear  fire.  When  they 
begin  to  simmer  take  them  off",  and 
take  the  fruit  out  carefully  with  a 
slice.  Peel  and  preserve  them  as 
other  fruit. 

GREEN  GAGES.  In  order  to 
preserve  them  for  pies  and  tarts, 
choose  the  largest  when  they  begin 
to  soften.  Split  them  without  paring ; 
and  having  weighed  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  sugar,  strew  a  part  of  it  over 
the  fruit.  Blanch  the  kernels  with 
a  small  sharp  knife.  Next  day  pour 
the  syrup  from  the  fruit,  and  boil 
it  gently  six  or  eight  minutes  with 
the  other  sugar ;  skim  it,  and  add 
the  plums  and  kernels.  Simmer  it 
till  clear,  taking  off*  any  scum  that 
rises  ;  put  the  fruit  singly  into  small 
pots,  and  pour  the  syrup  and  ker- 
nels to  it.  If  the  fruit  is  to  be  can- 
died, the  syrup  must  not  be  added : 


ORE 


a  111 


\ 


for  the  sake  of  variety,  it  may  be 
proper  to  do  some  each  way. 

GREEN  GOOSE  PIE.  Bone 
two  young  green  geese,  of  a  gooci 
size  ;  but  first  take  away  every  plug, 
and  singe  them  nicely.  Wash  them 
clean,  and  season  them  well  with 
salt,  pepper,  mace,  and  allspice. 
Put  one  Jnside  the  other,  and  press 
them  quite  close,  drawing  the  legs 
inward.  Put  a  good  deal  of  butter 
over  them,  and  bake  them  either 
with  or  without  a  crust :  if  the  lat- 
ter, a  cover  to  the  dish  must  fit  close 
to  keep  in  the  steam. 

GREEN  PEAS.  Peas  should  not 
be  shelled  till  they  are  wanted,  nor 
boiled  in  much  water.  Put  them  in 
when  the  water  boils,  with  a  little 
salt,  and  a  lump  of  sugar.  When 
they  begin  to  dent  in  the  middle, 
<hey  are  done  enough.  Strain  them 
through  a  cullender,  put  a  piece  of 
butter  in  the  dish,  and  stir  them  \i\\ 
it  is  melted.  Garnish  with  boiled 
mint. 

GREEN  PEAS  PRESERVED. 
If  it  be  wished  to  keep  them  for 
winter  use,  shell  the  peas,  and  put 
them  into  a  kettle  of  water  when  it 
boils.  Warm  them  well,  without 
boiling,  and  pour  them  into  a  cul- 
lender. When  the  water  drains  off, 
turn  them  out  on  a  dresser  covered 
with  a  cloth,  and  put  over  another 
cloth  to  dry  them  perfectly.  De- 
posit them  in  wide-mouth  bottles, 
leaving  only  room  to  pour  clarified 
mutton  suet  upon  them  an  inch 
thick,  and  also  for  the  cork.  Rosin 
it  down,  and  keep  it  in  the  cellar  or 
in  the  earth,  the  same  as  other  green 
fruit.  When  the  peas  are  to  be 
used,  boil  them  tender,  with  a  piece 
of  butter,  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  and 
a  little  mint. — Another  way.  Shell 
the  peas,  scald  and  dry  them  as 
above.  Put  them  on  tins  or  earthen 
dishes  in  a  cool  oven  once  or  twice 
to  harden,  and  keep  them  in  paper 
bags  hung  up  in  the  kitchen.  When 
they  are  to  be  used,  let  them  be  an 
hour  in  water;    then   set  them  on 


with  cold  water,  a  piece  of  butter, 
and  a  sprig  of  dried  mint,  and  boil 
them. 

GREEN  PEAS  SOUP.  In  shell- 
ing the  peas,  divide  the  old  from 
the  young.  Stew  the  old  ones  to  a 
pulp,  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  a 
pint  of  water,  a  leaf  or  two  of  let- 
tuce, two  onions,  pepper  and  salt. 
Put  to  the  liquor  that  stewed  them 
some  more  water,  the  hearts  and 
tender  stalks  of  the  lettuces,  the 
young  peas,  a  handful  of  spinach 
cut  small,  salt  and  pepper  to  relish, 
and  boil  them  till  quite  soft.  If  the 
soup  be  too  thin,  or  not  rich  enough, 
add  an  ounce  or  two  of  butter,  mix- 
ed with  a  spoonful  of  rice  or  flour, 
and  boil  it  half  an  hour  longer. 
Before  serving,  boil  in  the  soup 
some  green  mint  shred  fine.  When 
the  peas  first  come  in,  or  are  very 
young,  the  stock  may  ))e  made  of 
the  shells  washed  and  boiled,  till 
they  are  capable  of  being  pulped. 
More  thickening;  will  then  be  wanted. 

GREEN  PEAS  STEWED.  Put 
into  a  stewpan  a  quart  of  peas,  a 
lettuce  and  an  onion  both  sliced, 
and  no  more  water  than  hangs  about 
the  lettuce  from  washing.  Add  a 
piece  of  butter,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  and  stew  them  very  gently  for 
two  hours.  When  to  be  served, 
beat  up  an  egg,  and  stir  it  into  them, 
or  a  bit  of  flour  and  butter.  Chop 
a  little  mint,  and  stew  in  them. 
Gravy  may  be  added,  or  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  white  powdered  sugar  ; 
but  the  flavouj-  of  the  peas  them- 
selves is  much  better. 

GREEN  SAUCE.  Mix  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  sorrel  juice,  a  glass 
of  white  wine,  and  some  scalded 
gooseberries.  Add  sugar,  and  a 
bit  of  butter,  and  boil  them  up,  to 
serve  with  green  geese  or  ducklings. 

GRIDIRON.  The  bars  of  a  grid- 
iron should  be  made  concave,  and 
terminate  in  a  trough  to  catch  the 
gravy,  and  keep  the  fat  from  drop- 
ping into  the  fire  and  making  a 
smoke,  which  will  spoil  the  broiling. 
157 


GRl 


GUD 


Upright  gridirons  are  the  best,  as 
they  can  be  used  at  any  fire,  with- 
out fear  of  smoke,  and  the  gravy  is 
preserved  in  the  trough  under  them. 
The  business. of  the  gridiron  may 
be  done  by  a  Dutch  oven,  when  oc- 
casion requires. 

GRIEF.  In  considering  what  is 
conducive  to  health  or  otherwise,  it 
aS  impossible  to  overlook  this  de- 
structive passion,  which  like  envy 
is  *  the  rottenness  of  the  bones.' 
Anger  and  fear  are  more  violent, 
but  this  is  more  fixed  :  it  sinks  deep 
into  the  mind,  and  often  proves 
fatal.  It  may  generally  be  con- 
quered at  the  beginning  of  any  ca- 
lamity ;  but  when  it  has  gained 
strength,  all  attempts  to  remove  it 
are  ineffectual.  Life  may  be  drag- 
ged out  for  a  few  years,  but  it  is 
impossible  that  any  one  should  en- 
joy health,  whose  mind  is  bowed 
down  with  grief  and  trouble.  In 
this  case  some  betake  themselves 
to  drinking,  but  here  the  remedy 
only  aggravates  the  disease.  The 
best  relief,  besides  what  the  conso- 
lations of  religion  may  afford,  is  to 
associate  Avith  the  kind  and  cheer- 
ful, to  shift  the  scene  as  much  as 
possible,  to  keep  up  a  succession 
of  new  ideas,  apply  to  the  study  of 
some  art  or  science,  and  to  read  and 
write  on  such  subjects  as  deeply 
engage  the  attention.  These  will 
sooner  expel  grief  than  the  most 
sprightly  amusements,  which  only 
aggravate  instead  of  relieving  the 
anguish  of  a  wounded  heart. 

GRILL  SAUCE.  To  half  a  pint 
of  gravy  add  an  ounce  of  fresh  but- 
ter, and  a  table-spoonful  of  flour, 
previously  well  rubbed  together ; 
the  same  of  mushroom  or  walnut 
ketchup,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  lemon 
juice,  one  of  made  mustard,  ^one  of 
caper,  half  a  one  of  black  pepper, 
a  little  lemon  peel  grated  fine,  a 
tea-spoonful  of  essence  of  ancho- 
vies, a  very  small  piece  of  minced 
shalot,  and  a  little  chili  vinegar,  or 
a  few  grains  of  cayenne.  Simmer 
16a 


them  all  together  for  a  few  minutes, 
pour  a  little  of  it  over  the  grill,  and 
send  up  the  rest  in  a  sance  tureen. 

GRILLED  MUTTON.  Cut  a 
breast  of  mutton  into  diamonds,  rub 
it  over  with  egg,  and  strew  on  some 
crumbs  of  bread  and  chopped  pars- 
ley. Broil  it  in  a  Dutch  oven,  baste 
it  with  butter,  and  pour  caper  sauce 
or  gravy  into  the  dish. 

GROUND  RICE  MILK.  Boil 
one  spoonful  of  ground  rice,  rub- 
bed down  smooth,  with  three  half 
pints  of  milk,  a  little  cinnamon,  le- 
mon peel,  and  nutmeg.  Sweeten  it 
when  nearly  done. 

GROUND  RICE  PUDDING. 
Boil  a  large  spoonful  of  ground  rice 
in  a  pint  of  new  milk,  with  lemon 
peei  and  cinnamon.  When  cold, 
add  sugar,  nutmeg,  and  two  eggs 
well  beaten.  Bake  it  with  a  crust 
round  the  dish.  A  pudding  of  Rus- 
sian seed  is  made  in  the  same  man- 
ner. 

GROUSE.  Twist  the  head  un- 
der the  wing,  and  roast  them  like 
fowls,  but  they  must  not  be  over- 
done. Serve  with  a  rich  gravy  in 
the  dish,  and  bread  sauce.  The 
sauce  recommended  for  wild  fowl, 
may  be  used  instead  of  gravy. 

GRUBS.  Various  kinds  of  grubs 
or  maggots,  hatched  from  beetles, 
are  destructive  of  vegetation,  and 
require  to  be  exterminated.  In 
a  garden  they  may  be  taken  and 
destroyed  by  cutting  a  turf,  and  lay- 
ing it  near  the  plant  which  is  at- 
tacked, with  the  grass  side  down- 
wards. But  the  most  effectual  way 
is  to  visit  these  depredators  at  mid- 
night, when  they  may  be  easily 
found  and  destroyed. 

GUDGEONS.  These  delicate 
fish  are  taken  in  running  streams, 
where  the  water  is  clear.  They 
come  in  about  midsummer,  and  are 
to  be  had  for  five  or  six  months. 
They  require  to  be  dressed  much 
the  same  as  smelts,  being  consi- 
dered as  a  species  of  fresh-water 
smelts. 


H  AI 


HAM 


GUINEA  FOWL.  Pea  and  gui- 
nea fowl  eat  much  like  pheasants, 
and  require  to  be  dressed  in  the 
same  way. 

GUINEA  HENS.  These  birds 
lay  a  great  number  of  eggs  ;  and  if 
their  nest  can  be  discovered,  it  is 
best  to  put  them  under  common 
hens,  which  are  better  nurses.  They 
require  great  warmth,  quiet,  and 
careful  feeding  with  rice  swelled  in 
milk,  or  bread  soaked  in  it.  Put 
two  peppercorns  down  their  throat 
when  first  hatched. 

GUNPOWDER.  Reduce  to  pow- 
der separately,  five  drams  of  nitrate 
of  potass,  one  dram  of  sulphur,  and 
one  of  new-burnt  charcoal.  Mix 
them  together  in  a  mortar  with  a 
little  water,  so  as  to  make  the  com- 
pound into  a  dough,  which  roll  out 


into  round  pieces  of  the  thickness 
of  a  pin,  upon  a  slab.  This  must 
be  done  by  moving  a  board  back- 
wards and  forwards  until  the  dough 
.is  of  a  proper  siie.  When  three  or 
four  of  these  strings  or  pieces  are 
ready,  put  them  together,  and  with 
a  knife  cut  the  whole  off  in  small 
grains.  Place  these  grains  on  a 
sheet  of  paper  in  a  warm  place, 
and  they  will  soon  dry.  During 
granulation,  the  dough  must  be  pre- 
vented from  sticking,  by  using  a 
little  of  the  dry  compound  powder. 
This  mode  of  granulation,  though 
tedious,  is  the  only  one  to  be  used 
for  so  small  a  quantity,  for  the  sake 
of  experiment.  In  a  large  way,  gun- 
powder is  granulated  by  passing  the 
composition  through  sieves. 


H. 


Haddocks.  These  fish  may  be 
had  the  greater  part  of  the  year, 
but  are  most  in  season  during  the 
first  three  months.  In  choosing, 
see  that  the  flesh  is  firm,  the  eyes 
bright,  and  the  gills  fresh  and  red. 
Clean  them  well,  dry  them  in  a 
cloth,  and  rub  them  with  vinegar  to 
prevent  the  skin  from  breaking. 
Dredge  them  with  flour,  rub  the 
gridiron  with  suet,  and  let  it  be  hot 
when  the  fish  is  laid  on.  Turn  them 
while  broiling,  and  serve  them  up 
with  melted  butter,  or  shrimp  sauce. 
HAIR.  Frequent  cutting  of  the 
hair  is  highly  beneficial  to  the  whole 
body;  and  if  the  head  be  daily 
washed  with  cold  water,  rubbed 
dry,  and  exposed  to  the  air,  it  will 
be  found  an  excellent  preventive 
of  periodical  headachs.  Pomatums 
and  general  perfumery  are  very  in- 
jurious ;  but  a  mixture  of  olive  oil 
and  spirits  of  rosemary,  with  a  few 
drops  of  oij  of  nutmeg,  may  be  used 
with    safety.     If  a   lead   comb  be 


sometimes  passed  through  the  hair, 
it  will  assume  a  darker  colour,  but 
for  health  it  cannot  be  recommended. 

HAIR  POWDER.  To  know  whe- 
ther this  article  be  adulterated  with 
lime,  as  is  too  frequently  the  case, 
put  a  little  of  the  powder  of  sal- 
ammoniac  into  it,  and  stir  it  up 
with  warm  wateV.  If  the  hair  pow- 
der has  been  adulterated  with  lime, 
a  strong  smell  of  alkali  will  arise 
from  the  mixture. 

HAIR  WATER.  To  thicken  the 
hair,  and  prevent  its  falling  oflF,  an 
excellent  water  may  be  prepared  in 
the  following  manner.  Put  four 
pounds  of  pure  honey  into  a  still, 
with  twelve  handfuls  of  the  tendrils 
of  vines,  and  the  same  quantity  of 
rosemary  tops.  Distil  as  cool  and 
as  slowly  as  possible,  and  the  liquor 
may  be  allowed  to  drop  till  it  begins  ' 
to  taste  sour. 

HAMS.     When  a  ham  is  to  be 
dressed,  put  it  into  water  all  night, 
if  it  has  hung  long ;  and  let  it  lie 
159 


HAN 


II  A  R 


either  in  a  hole  dug  in  the  earth,  or 
on  damp  stones  sprinkled  with  wa- 
ter, two  or  three  days,  to  mellow  it. 
Wash  it  well,  a  d  put  it  into  a  boiler 
with  plenty  of  w'ater  ;  let  it  simmer 
four,  five,  or  six  hours,  according 
to  the  size.  When  done  enough,  if 
before  the  time  of  serving,  cover  it 
with  a  clean  cloth  doubled,  and  keep 
the  dish  hot  over  some  boiling  wa- 
ter. Take  off  the  skin,  and  rasp 
some  bread  over  the  ham.  Preserve 
the  skin  as  whole  as  possible,  to 
cover  the  ham  when  cold,  in  order 
to  prevent  its  drying.  Garnish  the 
dish  with  carrot  when  sent  to  table. 
If  a  dried  ham  is  to  be  purchased, 
judge  of  its  goodness  by  sticking  a 
sharp  knife  under  the  bone.  If  it 
comes  out*with  a  pleasant  smell, 
the  ham  is  good  :  but  if  the  knife 
be  daubed,  and  has  a  bad  scent,  do 
not  buy  it.  Hams  short  in  the  hock 
are  best,  and  long-legged  pigs  are 
not  fit  to  be  pickled. 

HAM  SAUCE.  When  a  ham  is 
almost  done  with,  pick  all  the  meat 
clean  from  the  bone,  leaving  out 
any  rusty  part.  Beat  the  meat  and 
the  bone  to  a  mash,  put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  three  spoonfuls  of 
gravy,  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  and 
stir  it  all  the  time,  or  it  will  stick  to 
the  bottom.  When  it  has  been  on 
some  time,  put  to  it  a  small  bundle 
of  sweet  herbs,  some  pepper,  and 
half  a  pint  of  beef  gravy.  Cover  it 
up,  and  let  it  stew  over  a  gentle  fire. 
When  it  has  a  good  flavour  of  the 
herbs,  strain  off"  the  gravy.  A  little 
of  this  sauce  will  be  found  an  im- 
provement to  all  gravies. 

HANDS.  When  the  hands  or 
feet  are  severely  aff*ected  with  the 
cold,  they  should  not  immediately 
be  exposed  to  the  fire,  but  restored 
to  their  usual  tone  and  feeling,  by 
immersing  them  in  cold  water,  and 
afterwards  applying  warmth  in  the 
most  careful  and  gradual  manner. 
Persons  subject  to  chopped  hands 
in  the  winter  time,  should  be  care- 
ful to  rub  them  quite  dry  after  every 
100 


washing ;  and  to  prevent  their  be- 
M:g  injured  by  the  weather,  rub 
them  with  a  mixture  of  fresh  lard, 
honey,  and  the  yolks  of  eggs  ;  or  a 
little  goose  fat  will  answer  the  pur- 
pose. 

HARD  DUMPLINGS.  Make  a 
paste  of  flour  and  water,  with  a  lit- 
tle salt,  and  roll  it  into  balls.  Dust 
them  with  flour,  and  boil  them  near- 
ly an  hour.  They  are  best  boiled 
with  a  good  piece  of  meat,  and  for 
variety,  a  few  currants  may  be 
added. 

HARES.  If  hung  up  in  a  dry 
cool  place,  they  will  keep  a  great 
time  ;  and  when  imagined  to  be  past 
eating,  they  are  often  in  the  highest 
perfection.  They  are  never  good 
if  eaten  when  fresh  killed.  A  hare 
will  keep  longer  and  eat  better,  if 
not  opened  for  four  or  five  days,  or 
according  to  the  state  of  the  wea- 
ther. If  paunched  when  it  comes 
from  the  field,  it  should  be  wiped 
quite  dry,  the  heart  and  liver  taken 
out,  and  the  liver  scalded  to  keep 
for  stufling.  Repeat  this  wiping 
every  day,  rub  a  mixture  of  pepper 
and  ginger  on  the  inside,  and  put  a 
large  piece  of  charcoal  into  it.  If 
the  spice  be  applied  early,  it  will 
prevent  that  musty  taste  which  long 
keeping  in  the  damp  occasions,  and 
which  also  aff"ects  the  stuflfing.  If 
an  old  hare  is  to  be  roasted,  it  should 
be  kept  as  long  as  possible,  and 
well  soaked.  This  may  be  judged 
of,  in  the  following  manner.  If  the 
claws  are  blunt  and  rugged,  the  ears 
dry  and  tofigh,  and  the  haunch 
thick,  it  is  old.  But  if  the  claws 
are  smooth  and  sharp,  the  ears  easi- 
ly tear,  and  the  cleft  in  the  lip  is 
not  much  spread,  it  is  young.  If 
fresh  and  newly  killed,  the  body 
will  be  stiff',  and  the  flesh  pale.  To 
know  a  real  leveret,  it  is  necessary 
to  look  for  a  knob  or  small  boncnear 
the  foot  on  its  fore  leg  :  if  there  be 
none,  it  is  a  hare. 

HARE  PIE.     Cut  up   the  hare, 
and  season  it ;    bake  it  with  eggs 


HAR 


HAS 


and  forcemeat,  in  a  dish  or  raised 
crust.  When  cold  take  off  the  lid, 
and  cover  the  meat  with  Savoury 
Jelly  :  see  the  article. 

HARE  SAUCE.  This  usually 
consists  of  currant  jelly  warmed  up; 
or  it  may  be  made  of  half  a  pint  of 
port,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sugar,  simmered  together  over  a 
clear  fire  for  about  five  minutes.  It 
may  also  be  made  of  half  a  pint  of 
vinegar,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  sugar,  reduced  to  a  syrup. 

HARE  SOUP.  Take  an  old  hare 
unfit  for  other  purposes,  cut  it 
into  pieces,  and  put  it  into  a  jar ; 
add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  lean  beef, 
two  or  three  shank  bones  of  mutton 
well  cleaned,  a  slice  of  lean  bacon 
or  ham,  an  onion,  and  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs.  Pour  on  two  quarts 
of  boiling  water,  cover  the  jar  close 
with  bladder  and  paper,  and  set  it 
in  a  kettle  of  water.  Simmer  till 
the  hare  is  stewed  to  pieces,  strain 
off  the  liquor,  boil  it  up  once,  with 
a  choppe'd  anchovy,  and  add  a 
spoonful  of  soy,  a  little  cayenne, 
and  salt.  A  few  fine  forcemeat  balls, 
fried  of  a  good  brown,  should  be 
served  in  the  tureen. 

HARRICO  OF  MUTTON.  Re- 
move some  of  the  fat,  and  cut  the 
middle  or  best  end  of  the  neck  into 
rather  thin  steaks.  Flour  and  fry 
them  in  their  own  fat,  of  a  fine  light 
brown,  but  not  enough  for  eating. 
Then  put  them  into  a  dish  while 
you  fry  the  carrots,  turnips,  and 
onions  ;  the  carrots  and  turnips  in 
dice,  the  onions  sliced...  They  must 
only  be  warmed,  and  not  browned. 
Then  lay  the  steaks  at  the  bottom 
of  a  stewpan,  the  vegetables  over 
them,  and  pour  on  as  much  boiling 
water  as  will  just  cover  them.  Give 
them  one  boil,  skim  them  well,  and 
then  set  the  pan  on  the  side  of  the 
fire  to  simmer  gently  till  all  is  ten- 
der. In  three  or  four  hours  skim 
them  ;  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
spoonful  of  ketchup. 


HARRICO  OF  VEAL.  Take  the 
best  end  of  a  small  neck,  cut  the 
bones  short,  but  leave  it  whole. 
Then  put  it  into  a  stewpan,  just 
covered  with  brown  gravy ;  and 
when  it  is  nearly  done,  have  ready 
a  pint  of  boiled  peas,  six  cucumbers 
pared  and  sliced,  and  two  cabbage- 
lettuces  cut  into  quarters,  all  stewed 
in  a  little  good  broth.  Add  them 
to  the  veal,  and  let  them  simmer  ten 
minutes.  When  the  veal  is  in  the 
dish,  pour  the  sauce  and  vegetables 
over  it,  and  lay  the  lettuce  with 
forcemeat  balls  round  it. 

HARTSHORN  JELLY.  Simmer 
eight  ounces  of  hartshorn  shavings 
with  two  quarts  of  water,  till  re- 
duced to  one.  Strain  and  boil  it 
with  the  rinds  of  four  China  oranges, 
and  two  lemons  pared  thin.  When 
cool,  add  the  juice  of  both,  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  and  the  whites  of 
six  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Let  the 
jelly  have  three  or  four  boils  with- 
out stirring,  and  strain  it  through  a 
jelly  bag. 

HASHED  BEEF.  Put  into  a 
stewpan,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  broth 
or  water,  a  large  table-spoonful  of 
mushroom  ketchup,  with  the  gravy 
saved  from  the  beef.  Add  a  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  of  onion  sliced  very 
fine,  and  boil  it  about  ten  minutes. 
Put  a  large  table-spoonful  of  flour 
into  a  basin,  just  wet  it  with  a  little 
water,  mix  it  well  together,  then 
stir  it  into  the  broth,  and  boil  it  five 
or  ten  minutes.  Rub  it  through  a 
sieve,  return  it  to  the  stewpan,  put 
in  the  hash,  and  let  it  stand  by  the 
side  of  the  fire  till  the  meat  is  warm. 
A  tea-spoonful  of  parsley  chopped 
very  fine,  and  put  in  five  minutes 
before  it  is  served  up,  will  be  an 
agreeable  addition  ;  or  to  give  a 
higher  relish,  a  glass  of  port  wine, 
and  a  spoonful  of  currant  jelly. 
Hashes  and  meats  dressed  a  second 
time,  should  only  simmer  gently,  till 
just  warmed  through. 

HASHED  DUCK.     Cut  a  cold 

Y  161 


HAS 


HAl; 


duck  into  Joints,  and  warm  it  in 
gravy,  without  boiling,  and  add  a 
glass  of  port  wine. 

HASHED  HARE.  Season  the 
legs  and  wings  first,  and  then  broil 
them,  which  will  greatly  improve 
the  flavour.  Rub  them  with  cold 
butter  and  serve  them  quite  hot. 
The  other  parts,  warmed  with  gravy, 
and  a  little  stuffing,  may  be  served 
separately. 

HASHED  MUTTON.  Cut  thin 
slices  of  dressed  mutton,  fat  and 
lean,  and  flour  them.  Have  ready 
a  little  onion  boiled  in  two  or  three 
spoonfuls  of  water  ;  add  to  it  a  little 
gravy,  season  the  meat,  and  make  it 
hot,  but  not  to  boil.  Serve  up  the 
hash  in  a  covered  dish.  Instead  of 
onion,  a  clove,  a  spoonful  of  cur- 
rant jelly,  and  half  a  glass  of  port 
wine,  will  give  an  agreeable  venison 
flavour,  if  the  meat  be  fine.  For  a 
change,  the  hash  miy  be  warmed  up 
with  pickled  cucumber  or  walnut 
cut  small. 

HASHED  VENISON.  Warm  it 
with  its  own  gravy,  or  some  of  it 
without  seasoning  ;  but  it  should 
only  be  warmed  tlirough,  and  not 
boiled.  If  no  fat  be  left,  cut  some 
slices  of  mutton  fat,  set  it  on  the  fire 
with  a  little  port  wine  and  sugar, 
and  simmer  it  dry.  Then  put  it  to 
the  hash,  and  it  will  eat  as  well  as 
the  fat  of  venison.  ''• 

HASTY  DISH  OF  EGGS.  Beat 
up  six  eggs,  pour  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan, hold  it  over  the  fire  till  they 
begin  to  thicken,  and  keep  stirring 
from  the  bottom  all  the  time.  Then 
add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  stir  it  about  till  the  eggs 
and  water  are  thoroughly  mixed, 
and  the  eggs  quite  dry.  Put  it  on 
a  plate,  and  serve  it  hot. 

HASTY  FRITTERS.  Melt  some 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  put  in  half  a 
pint  of  good  ale,  and  stir  a  little 
flour  into  it  by  degrees.  Add  a  few 
currants,  or  chopped  apples ;  beat 
them  up  quick,  and  drop  a  large 
spoonfal  at  a  time  into  the  pan,  till 
1G2 


the  bottom  is  nearly  covered.  Keep 
them  separate,  turn  them  with  a 
slice  ;  and  when  of  a  fine  brown, 
serve  them  up  hot,  with  grated  su- 
gar over  them. 

HASTY  PUDDING.  Boil  some 
milk  over  a  clear  fire,  and  take  it 
off".  Keep  putting  in  flour  with  one 
hand,  and  stirring  it  with  the  other, 
till  it  becomes  quite  thick.  Boil  it 
a  few  minutes,  pour  it  into  a  dish, 
and  garnish  with  pieces  of  butter. 
To  make  a  better  pudding,  beat  up 
an  e^^  and  flour  into  a  stifle  paste, 
and  mince  it  fine.  Put  the  mince 
into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  with  a 
little  butter  and  salt,  cinnamon  and 
sugar,  and  stir  them  carefully  toge- 
ther. When  sufficiently  thickened, 
pour  it  into  a  dish,  and  stick  bits 
of  butter  on  the  top.  Or  shred 
some  suet,  add  grated  bread,  a  few 
currants,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and 
the  whites  of  two,  with  some  grated 
lemon  peel  and  ginger.  Mix  the 
whole  together,  and  make  it  into 
balls  the  size  and  shape  of  an  egg, 
with  a  little  flour.  Throw  them  in- 
to a  skillet  of  boiling  water,  and 
boil  them  twenty  minutes  ;  but  when 
sufficiently  done,  they  will  rise  to 
the  top.  Serve  with  cold  butter,  or 
pudding  sauce. 

HATS.  Gentlemen's  hats  are 
often  damaged  by  a  shower  of  rain, 
which  takes  off*  the  gloss,  and  leaves 
them  spotted.  To  prevent  this, 
shake  out  the  wet  as  much  as  pos- 
sible, wipe  the  hat  carefully  with  a 
clean  handkerchief,  observing  to 
lay  the  beaver  smooth.  Then  fix 
the  hat  in  its  original  shape,  and 
hang  it  to  dry  at  a  distance  from 
the  fire.  Next  morning,  brush  it 
several  times  with  a  soft  brush  in 
the  proper  direction,  and  the  hat 
will  have  sustained  but  little  injury. 
A  flat  iron  moderately  heated,  and 
passed  two  or  three  times  gently 
over  the  hat,  will  raise  the  gloss, 
and  give  the  hat  its  former  good  ap- 
pearance. 

HAUNCH  OF  MUTTON.    Keep 


H  AU 


HE  A 


it  as  long  as  it  can  be  preserved 
sweet,  and  wash  it  with  warm  milk 
and  water,  or  vinegar  if  necessary. 
When  to  be  dressed  especially,  ob- 
serve to  wash  it  well,  lest  the  out- 
side should  contract  a  bad  flavour 
from  keeping.  Lay  a  paste  of  coarse 
flour  on  strong  paper,  and  fold  the 
haunch  in  it ;  set  it  a  great  distance 
from  the  firt,  and  allow  propor- 
tionate time  for  the  paste.  Do  not 
remove  it  till  nearly  forty  minutes 
before  serving,  and  then  baste  it 
continually.  Bring  the  haunch  nearer 
the  fire  before  the  paste  is  taken  oflf, 
and  froth  it  up  the  same  as  venison. 
A  gravy  must  be  made  of  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  a  loin  of  old  mutton, 
simmered  in  a  pint  of  water  to  half 
the  quantity,  and  no  seasoning  but 
salt.  Brown  it  with  a  little  burnt 
sugar,  and  send  it  up  in  the  dish. 
Care  should  be  taken  to  retain  a 
good  deal  of  gravy  in  the  meat,  for 
though  long  at  the  fire,  the  distance 
and  covering  will  prevent  its  roast- 
ing out.  Serve  with  currant-jelly 
sauce. 

HAUNCH  OF  VENISON.  If  it 
be  the  haunch  of  a  buck,  it  will 
take  full  three  hours  and  a  half 
roasting ;  if  a  «doe,  about  half  an 
hour  less.  Veaison  should  be  ra- 
ther under  than  overdone.  Sprinkle 
some  salt  on  a  sheet  of  white  paper, 
spread  it  over  with  butter,  and  co- 
ver the  fat  with  it.  Then  lay  a 
coarse  paste  on  strong  white  paper, 
and  cover  the  haunch  ;  tie  it  with 
fine  packthread,  and  set  it  at  a  dis- 
tance from  a  good  fire.  Baste  it 
often :  ten  minutes  before  serving 
take  ofi^  the  paste,  draw  the  meat 
nearer  the  fire,  and  baste  it  with 
butter  and  a  good  deal  of  flour,  to 
make  it  froth  up  well.  Gravy  for 
it  should  be  put  into  a  boat,  and 
not  into  the  dish,  unless  there  is 
none  in  the  venison.  To  make  the 
gravy,  cut  oft'  the  fat  from  two  or 
three  pounds  of  a  loin  of  old  mut- 
ton, and  set  it  in  steaks  on  a  grid- 
iron for  a  few  minutes  just  to  brown 


one  side.  Put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  a  quart  of  water,  keep  it 
closely  covered  for  an  hour,  and 
simmer  it  gently.  Then  uncover  it, 
stew  it  till  the  gravy  is  reduced  to 
a  pint,  and  season  it  with  salt  only. 
Currant-jelly  sauce  must  be  served 
in  a  boat.  Beat  up  the  jelly  with 
a  spoonful  or  two  of  port  wine,  and 
melt  it  over  the  fire.  Where  jelly 
runs  short,  a  little  more  wine  must 
be  added,  and  a  few  lumps  of  Sugar. 
Serve  with  French  beans.  If  the 
old  bread  sauce  be  still  preferred, 
grate  some  white  bread,  and  boil  it 
with  port  wine  and  water,  and  a 
large  stick  of  cinnamon.  When 
quite  smooth,  take  out  the  cinna- 
mon, and  add  some  sugar. 

HAY  STACKS.  In  making  stacks 
of  new  hay,  care  should  be  taken  to 
prevent  its  heating  and  taking  fire, 
by  forming  a  tunnel  completely 
through  the  centre.  This  may  be 
done  by  stufling  a  sack  full  of  straw, 
and  tying  up  the  mouth  with  a  cord ; 
then  make  the  rick  round  the  sack, 
drawing  it  up  as  the  rick  advances, 
and  taking  it  out  when  finished. 

HEAD  ACHE.  This  disorder  ge- 
nerally arises  from  some  internal 
cause,  and  is  the  symptom  of  a  dis- 
ease which  requires  first  to  be  at- 
tended to  ;  but  where  it  is  a  local 
affection  only,  it  may  be  relieved 
by  bathing  the  part  aff'ected  with 
spirits  of  hartshorn,  or  applying  a 
poultice  of  elder  flowers.  In  some 
cases  the  most  obstinate  pain  is  re- 
moved by  the  use  of  vervain,  both 
internally  in  the  form  of  a  decoc- 
tion, and  also  by  suspending  the 
herb  round  the  neck.  Persons  af- 
flicted with  headache  should  beware 
of  costiveness  :  their  drink  should 
be  diluting,  and  their  feet  and  legs 
kept  warm.  It  is  very  obvious,  that 
as  many  disorders  arise  from  taking 
cold  in  the  head,  children  should  be 
inured  to  a  light  and  loose  covering 
in  their  infancy,  by  which  means 
violent  headaches  might  be  prevent- 
ed in  mature  age :  and  the  maxim 
163 


HER 


HER 


of  keeping  the  feet  warm  and  the 
head  cool,  should  be  strictly  attend- 
ed to. 

HEAD  AND  PLUCK.  Whether 
of  lamb  or  mutton,  wash  the  head 
clean,  take  the  black  part  from  the 
eyes,  and  the  gall  from  the  liver. 
Lay  the  head  in  warm  water;  boil 
the  lights,  heart,  and  part  of  the 
liver  ;  chop  them  small,  and  add  a 
little  flour.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan 
with  some  gravy,  or  a  little  of  the 
liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  a  spoonful 
of  ketchup,  a  small  quantity  of  le- 
mon juice,  cream,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Boil  the  head  very  white  and  tender, 
lay  it  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and 
the  mince  meat  round  it.  Fry  the 
other  part  of  the  liver  with  some 
small  bits  of  bacon,  lay  them  on  the 
mince  meat,  boil  the  brains  the  same 
as  for  a  calf's  head,  beat  up  an  e^g 
and  mix  with  them,  fry  them  in 
small  cakes,  and  lay  them  on  the 
rim  of  the  dish.  Garnish  with  le- 
mon and  parsley. 

HEART  BURN.  Persons  sub- 
ject to  this  disorder,  ought  to  drink 
no  stale  liquors,  and  to  abstain  from 
flatulent  food.  Take  an  infusion  of 
bark,  or  any  other  stomachic  bitter ; 
or  a  tea-spoonful  of  the  powder  of 
gum  arabic  dissolved  in  a  little  wa- 
ter, or  chew  a  few  sweet  almonds 
blanched.  An  infusion  of  anise 
seeds,  or  ginger,  have  sometimes 
produced  the  desired  eff'ect. 

HEDGE  HOG.  Make  a  cake  of 
any  description,  and  bake  it  in  a 
mould  the  shape  of  a  hedge  hog. 
Turn  it  out  of  the  mould,  and  let  it 
stand  a  day  or  two.  Prick  it  with 
a  fork,  and  let  it  remain  all  night  in 
a  dish  full  of  sweet  wine.  Slit  some 
blanched  almonds,  and  stick  about 
it,  and  pour  boiled  custard  in  the 
dish  round  it. 

HERB  PIE.  Pick  two  handfub 
of  parsley  from  the  stems,  half  the 
quantity  of  spinach,  two  lettuces, 
some  mustard  and  cresses,  a  few 
leaves  of  borage,  and  white  beet 
leaves.  Wash  and  boil  them  a  lit- 
164 


tie,  drain  and  press  out  the  water, 
cut  them  small ;  mix  a  batter  of 
flour,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  pint 
of  cream,  and  half  a  pint  of  milk, 
and  pour  it  on  the  herbs.  Cover 
with  a  good  crust,  and  bake  it. 

HERB  TEA.  If  betony  be  ga- 
thered and  dried  before  it  begins  to 
flower,  it  will  be  found  to  have  the 
taste  of  tea,  and  all  its  good  quali- 
ties, without  any  of  its  bad  ones  :  it 
is  also  considered  as  a  remedy  for 
the  headache.  Hawthorn  leaves 
dried,  and  one  third  of  balm  and 
sage,  mixed  together,  will  make  a 
wholesome  and  strengthening  drink. 
An  infusion  of  ground  ivy,  mixed 
with  a  few  flowers  of  lavender,  and 
flavoured  with  a  drop  of  lemon 
juice,  will  make  an  agreeable  sub- 
stitute for  common  tea.  Various 
other  vegetables  might  also  be  em- 
ployed for  this  purpose  ;  such  as 
sage,  balm,  peppermint,  and  similar 
spicy  plants ;  the  flowers  of  the 
sweet  wood  roof,  those  of  the  bur- 
net,  or  pimpernel  rose ;  the  leaves 
of  peach  and  almond  trees,  the 
young  and  tender  leaves  of  bilberry, 
and  common  raspberry  ;  and  the 
blossoms  of  the  blackthorn,  or  sloe 
tree.  Most  of  these  when  carefully 
gathered  and  dried  in  the  shade, 
especially  if  they  be  managed  like 
Indian  tea-leaves,  bear  a  great  re- 
semblance to  the  foreign  teas,  and 
are  at  the  same  time  of  superior  fla- 
vour and  salubrity. 

HERBS  FOR  WINTER.  Take 
any  sort  of  sweet  herbs,  with  three 
times  the  quantity  of  parsley,  aud 
dry  them  in  the  air,  without  ex- 
posing them  to  the  sun.  When  quite 
dry,  rub  them  through  a  hair  sieve, 
put  them  in  canisters  or  bottles,  and 
keep  them  in  a  dry  place  :  they  will 
be  useful  for  seasoning  in  the  win- 
ter. Mint,  sage,  thyme,  and  such 
kind  of  herbs,  may  be  tied  in  small 
bimches,  and  dried  in  the  air :  then 
put  each  sort  separately  into  a  bag, 
and  hang  it  up  in  the  kitchen.  Pars- 
ley should  be  picked  from  the  stalkg 


H  IC 


HIV 


as  soon  as  gathered,  and  dried  in 
the  shade  to  preserve  the  colour. 
Cowslips  and  marigolds  should  be 
gathered  dry,  picked  clean,  dried 
in  a  cloth,  and  kept  in  paper  bags. 

HESSIAN  SOUP.  Clean  the 
root  of  a  neat's  tongue  very  nicely, 
and  half  an  ox's  head,  with  salt  and 
water,  and  soak  them  afterwards  in 
water  only.  Then  stew  them  in  five 
or  six  quarts  of  water,  till  tolerably 
tender.  Let  the  soup  stand  to  be 
cold,  take  off  the  fat,  which  will  do 
for  basting,  or  to  make  good  paste 
for  hot  meat  pies.  Put  to  the  soup 
a  pint  of  split  peas,  or  a  quart  of 
whole  ones,  twelve  carrots,  six  tur- 
nips, six  potatoes,  six  large  onions, 
a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  two 
heads  of  celery.  Sirtihier  them  with- 
out the  meat,  till  the  vegetables  are 
done  enough  to  pulp  with  the  peas 
through  a  sieve  ;  and  the  soup  will 
then  be  about  the  thickness  of  cream. 
Season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  mace, 
allspice,  a  clove  or  two,  and  a  little 
cayenne,  all  in  fine  powder.  If  the 
peas  are  bad,  and  the  soup  not  thick 
enough,  boil  in  it  a  slice  of  roll,  and 
pass  it  through  the  cullender ;  or 
add  a  little  rice  flour,  mixing  it  by 
degrees. — To  make  a  ragout  with  the 
above,  cut  the  nicest  part  of  the 
head,  the  kernels,  and  part  of  the 
fat  from  the  root  of  the  tongue,  into 
small  thick  pieces.  Rub  these  with 
some  of  the  above  seasoning,  put- 
ting them  into  a  quart  of  the  liquor 
reserved  for  that  purpose  before  the 
vegetables  were  added  ;  floUr  them 
well,  and  simmer  till  they  are  nicely 
tender.  Then  add  a  little  mush- 
room and  walnut  ketchup,  a  little 
soy,  a  glass  of  port  wine,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  boil 
all  up  together.  Serve  with  small 
eggs  and  forcemeat  balls.  This 
furnishes  an  excellent  soup  and  a 
ragout  at  a  small  expense. 

HICCOUGH.  A  few  small 
draughts  of  water  in  quick  succes- 
sion, or  a  tea-spoonful  of  vinegar, 
will  often  afford  immediate  relief. 


Peppermint  water  mixed  with  a  few 
drops  of  vitriolic  acid  may  be  taken ; 
and  sometimes  sneezing,  or  tbe 
stench  of  an  extinguished  tallow 
candle,  has  been  found  siitticient 

HIND  QUARTER  OF  LAMB. 
Boil  the  leg  in  a  floured  cloth  an 
hour  and  a  quarter;  cut  the  loin 
into  chops,  fry  them,  lay  them  round 
the  leg,  with  a  bit  of  parsley  on 
each,  and  serve  it  up  with  spinach 
or  brocoli. 

HIND  QUARTER  OF  PIG.  To 
dress  this  joint  lamb  fashion,  take 
oflfthe  skin,  roast  it,  and  serve  it  up 
with  mint  sauce.  A  leg  <;f  lamb 
stufl'ed  like  a  leg  of  pork,  and  roast- 
ed, with  drawn  gravy,  is  very  good. 
A  loin  of  mutton  also,  stufted  like  a 
hare,  and  basted  with  milk.  Put 
gravy  in  the  dish,  served  with  cur- 
rant jelly,  or  any  other  sauce. 

HIVING  OF  BEES.  When  it  is 
intended  to  introduce  a  swarm  of 
bees  into  a  new  hive,  it  must  be  tho- 
roughly cleaned,  and  the  inside 
rubbed  with  virgin  wax.  A  piece 
of  nice  honeycomb,  made  of  very 
white  wax,  and  about  nine  inches 
long,  should  be  hung  on  the  cross 
bars  near  the  top  of  the  hive,  to  form 
a  kind  of  nest  for  the  bees,  and  ex- 
cite them  to  continue  their  work. 
The  new  hive  being  thus  prepared, 
is  then  to  be  placed  under  an  old 
one,  before  the  bees  begin  to  swarm, 
in  such  a  manner  as  to  be  quite  close, 
and  to  leave  the  bees  no  passage  ex- 
cept into  the  new  hive.  As  these 
insects  generally  work  downwards, 
they  will  soon  get  into  their  new 
habitation;  and  when  it  is  occu- 
pied by  one  half  of  the  swarm,  some 
holes  must  be  made  in  the  top  of 
the  old  hive,  and  kept  covered  till 
the  proper  time  of  making  use  t>f  Mjjt 
them.  Preparation  being  thus  made,  ^ 
take  the  opportunity  of  a  fine  morn- 
ing, about  eight  or  nine  o'clock,  at 
which  time  most  of  the  bees  are  out, 
gathering  their  harvest.  The  comb 
is  to  be  cut  through  by  means  of  a 
piece  of  iron  wire,  and  the  old  hive 
165 


HIV 


HIV 


separated  from  the  new  one.  An 
assistant  must  immediately  place 
the  cover,  which  should  be  previ- 
ously fitted,  upon  the  top  of  the 
new  one.  The  old  hive  is  then  to 
be  taken  to  the  distance  of  twenty 
or  thirty  yards,  and  placed  firm 
upon  a  bench  or  table,  but  so  as  to 
leave  a  free  space  both  above  and 
below.  The  holes  at  the  top  being 
opened,  one  of  the  new  boxes  is  to 
be  placed  on  the  top  of  the  old  hive, 
having  the  cover  loosely  fastened 
on  it ;  and  is  to  be  done  in  such  a 
manner,  by  closing  the  intervals  be- 
tween them  with  linen  cloths,  that 
the  bees  on  going  out  by  the  holes 
on  the  top  of  the  old  hive  can  only 
go  into  the  new  one.  But  in  order 
to  drive  the  bees  into  the  new  hive, 
some  live  coals  must  be  placed  un- 
der the  old  one,  upon  which  some 
linen  may  be  thrown,  to  produce  a 
volume  of  smoke  ;  and  the  bees  feel- 
ing the  annoyance,  will  ascend  to 
the  top  of  the  old  hive,  and  at  length 
will  go  through  the  holes  into  the 
new  one.  When  they  have  nearly 
all  entered,  it  is  to  be  removed 
gently  from  the  old  hive,  and  placed 
under  the  box  already  mentioned, 
the  top  or  cover  having  been  taken 
off.  If  it  should  appear  the  next 
morning  that  the  two  boxes,  of 
which  the  new  hive  is  now  com- 
posed, do  not  afford  sufliicient  room 
for  the  bees,  a  third  or  fourth  box 
may  be  added,  under  the  others,  as 
their  work  goes  on,  changing  them 
from  time  to  time  so  long  as  the  sea- 
son permits  the  bees  to  gather  wax 
and  honey.  When  a  new  swarm  is 
to  be  hived,  the  boxes  prepared  as 
above  and  proportioned  to  the  size 
of  the  swarm,  are  to  be  brought 
near  the  place  where  the  bees  have 
settled.  The  upper  box  with  the 
cover  upon  it,  must  be  taken  from 
the  others.  The  cross  bars  at  the 
top  should  be  smeared  >yith  honey 
and  water,  the  doors  must  be  closed, 
the  box  turned  upside  down,  and 
held  under  the  swarm,  which  is  then 
166 


to  be  shaken  into  it  as  into  a  com- 
mon hive.  When  the  whole  swarm 
is  in  the  box,  it  is  to  be  carried  to 
the  other  boxes,  previously  placed 
in  their  destined  situation,  and  care- 
fully put  upon  them.  The  inter- 
stices are  to  be  closed  with  cement, 
and  all  the  little  doors  closed,  ex- 
cept the  lowest,  through  which  the 
bees  are  to  pass.  The  hive  should 
be  shaded  from  the  sun  for  a  few 
days,  that  the  bees  may  not  be 
tempted  to  leave  their  new  habita- 
tion. It  is  more  advantageous  how- 
ever to  form  artificial  swarms,  than 
to  collect  those  which  abandon  their 
native  hives  ;  and  the  hive  here  re- 
commended is  more  particularly 
adapted  to  that  purpose.  By  this 
mode  of  treatment,  we  not  only 
avoid  the  inconveniences  which  at- 
tend the  procuring  of  swarms  in  the 
common  way,  but  obtain  the  ad- 
vantage of  having  the  hives  always 
well  stocked,  which  is  of  greater 
consequence  than  merely  to  increase 
their  number ;  for  it  has  been  ob- 
served, that  if  a  hive  of  four  thou- 
sand bees  give  six  pounds  of  honey> 
one  of  eight  thousand  will  give  twen- 
ty-four pounds.  On  this  principle 
it  is  proper  to  unite  two  or  more 
hives,  when  they  happen  to  be  thick- 
ly stocked.  This  may  be  done  by 
scattering  a  few  handfuls  of  bahn 
in  those  hives  which  are  to  be  united, 
which  by  giving  them  the  same 
smell,  they  will  be  unable  to  distin- 
guish one  another.  After  this  pre- 
paration, the  hives  are  to  be  joined 
by  placing  them  one  upon  the  other, 
in  the  evening  when  they  are  at  rest, 
and  taking  away  those  boxes  which 
arc  nearly  empty.  All  the  little  doors 
must  be  closed,  except  the  lowest. 

If  bees  are  kept  in  single  straw 

hives  in  the  usual  way,  the  manner 
of  hiving  them  is  somewhat  different. 
They  are  first  allowed  to  swarm,  and 
having  settled,  they  are  then  taken 
to  the  hive.  If  they  fix  on  the  lower 
branch  of  a  tree,  it  may  be  cut  off 
and  laid  on  a  cloth,  and  the  hive 


HIV 


HOG 


placed  over  it,  so  as  to  leave  room 
for  the  bees  to  ascend  into  it.  If 
the  queen  can  be  found,  and  put 
into  the  hive,  the  rest  will  soon  fol- 
low. But  if  it  be  difficult  to  reach 
them,  let  them  remain  where  they 
have  settled  till  the  evening,  when 
there  will  be  less  danger  of  escaping. 
After  this  the  hive  is  to  be  placed 
in  the  apiary,  cemented  round  the 
bottom,  and  covered  from  the  wet 
at  top.  The  usual  method  of  uniting 
swarms,  is  by  spreading  a  cloth  at 
night  upon  the  ground  close  to  the 
hive,  in  which  the  hive  with  the  new 
swarm  is  to  be  placed.  By  giving 
a  smart  stroke  on  the  top  of  the 
hive,  all  the  bees  will  drop  into  a 
cluster  upon  the  cloth.  Then  take 
another  hive  from  the  beehouse, 
and  place  it  over  the  bees,  when 
they  will  ascend  into  it,  and  mix 
with  those  already  there.  Another 
Way  is  to  invert  the  hive  in  which 
the  united  swarms  are  to  live,  and 
strike  the  bees  of  the  other  hive  in- 
to it  as  before.  One  of  the  queens 
is  generally  slain  on  this  occasion, 
together  with  a  considerable  num- 
ber of  the  working  bees.  To  prevent 
this  destruction,  one  of  the  queens 
should  be  sought  for  and  taken, 
when  the  bees  are  beaten  out  of  the 
hive  upon  the  cloth,  before  the  union 
is  effected.  Bees  never  swarm  till 
the  hive  is  too  much  crowded  by 
the  young  brood,  which  happens  in 
May  or  June,according  to  the  warmth 
of  the  season.  A  good  swarm  should 
weigh  five  or  six  pounds  ;  those  that 
are  under  four  pounds  weight, 
should  be  strengthened  by  a  small 
additional  swarm.  The  size  of  the 
hive  ought  to  be  proportionate  to 
the  number  of  the  bees,  and  should 
be  rather  too  small  than  too  large, 
as  they  require  to  be  kept  dry  and 
warm  in  winter.  In  performing  these 
several  operations,  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  defend  the  hands  and  face 
from  the  sting  of  the  bees.  The 
best  way  of  doing  this  is  to  cover 
the  whole  head  and  neck  with  a 


coarse  cloth  or  canvas,  which  may 
be  brought  down  and  fastened  round 
the  waist.  Through  this  cloth  the 
motion  of  the  bees  may  be  observed, 
without  fearing  their  stings;  and 
the  hands  may  be  protected  by  a 
thick  pair  of  gloves. 

HODGE  PODGE.  Boil  some 
slices  of  coarse  beef  in  three  quarts 
of  water,  and  one  of  small  beer. 
Skim  it  well,  put  in  onions,  carrots, 
turnips,  celery,  pepper  and  salt. 
When  the  meat  is  tender,  take  it  out, 
strain  off  the  soup,  put  a  little  but- 
ter and  flour  into  the  saucepan,  and 
stir  it  well,  to  prevent  burning.  Take 
off  the  fat,  put  the  soup  into  a  stew- 
pan,  and  stew  the  beef  in  it  till  it  is 
quite  tender.  Serve  up  the  soup 
with  turnips  and  carrots,  spinage 
or  celery.  A  leg  of  beef  cut  in 
pieces,  and  stewed  five  or  six  hours, 
will  make  good  soup  ;  and  any  kind 
of  roots  or  spices  may  be  added  or 
omitted  at  pleasure.  Or  stew  some 
peas,  lettuce,  and  onions,  in  a  very 
little  water,  with  a  bone  of  beef  or 
ham.  While  these  are  doing,  sea- 
son some  mutton  or  lamb  steaks, 
and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown.  Three 
quarters  of  an  hour  before  serving, 
put  the  steaks  into  a  stewpan,  and 
the  vegetables  over  them.  Stew 
them,  and  serve  all  together  in  a 
tureen.  Another  way  of  making 
a  good  hodge  podge,  is  to  stew  a 
knuckle  of  veal  and  a  scrag  of  mut- 
ton, with  some  vegetables,  adding 
a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 

HOG'S  CHEEKS.  If  to  be  dried 
as  usual,  cut  out  the  snout,  remove 
the  brains,  and  split  the  head,  tak- 
ing off  the  upper  bone  to  make  the 
chawl  a  good  shape.  Rub  it  well 
with  salt,  and  next  day  take  away 
the  brine.  On  the  following  day 
cover  the  head  with  half  an  ounce 
of  saltpetre,  two  ounces  of  bay  salt, 
a  little  common  salt,  and  four  ounces 
ot  coarse  sugar.  Let  the  head  be 
often  turned,  and  after  ten  days 
smoke  it  for  a  week  like  bacon. 

HOG'S  EARS  FORCED.  Parboil 
167 


noQ 


HOK 


two  pair  of  ears,  Ojf  take  some  that 
have  been  soused.  Make  a  force- 
i§£Sit  of  an  anchovy,  some  sage  and 
parsley,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
chopped  suet,  bread  crumbs,  and 
only  a  little  salt.  Mix  all  these 
with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  raise 
the  skin  of  the  upper  side  of  the 
ears,  and  stuff  them  with  the  mix- 
ture. Fry  the  ears  in  fresh  butter, 
of  a  fine  colour  ;  then  pour  away 
the  fat,  and  drain  them.  Prepare 
half  a  pint  of  rich  gravy,  with  a 
glass  of  fine  sherry,  three  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  made  mustard,  a  little  butter 
gfltd  flour,  a  small  onion  whole,  and 
a  little  pepper  or  cayenne.  Put 
this  with  the  ears  into  a  stewpan, 
and  cover  it  close  ;  stew  it  gently 
for  half  an  hour,  shaking  the  pan 
often.  When  done  enough,  take  out 
the  onion,  place  the  ears  carefully 
in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over 
them.  If  a  larger  dish  is  wanted, 
the  meat  from  two  feet  may  be  added 
to  the  above. 

HOG'S  HEAD.  To  make  some 
excellent  meat  of  a  hog's  head,  split 
it,  take  out  the  brains,  cut  off  the 
ears,  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt  for 
^  day.  Then  drain  it,  salt  it  again 
with  common  salt  and  saltpetre  for 
three  days,  and  afterwards  lay  the 
whole  in  a  small  quantity  of  water 
for  two  days.  Wash  it,  and  boil  it 
till  all  the  bones  will  come  out. 
Skin  the  tongue,  and  take  the  skin 
carefully  off  the  head,  to  put  under 
and  over.  Chop  the  head  as  quick 
as  possible,  season  it  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  little  mace  or  all- 
spice berries.  Put  the  skin  into  a 
small  pan,  with  the  chopped  head 
between,  and  press  it  down.  When 
cold  it  will  turn  out,  and  make  a 
kind  of  brawn.  If  too  fat,  a  few 
bits  of  lean  pork  may  be  prepared 
in  the  same  way,  and  added  to  it. 
Add  salt  and  vinegar,  and  boil  these 
with  some  of  the  liquor  for  a  pickle 
to  keep  it. 

HOG'S  LARD.  This  should  be 
carefully  melted  in  a  jar  placed  in 
168 


a  kettle  of  water,  and  boiled  with  a 
sprig  of  rosemary.  After  it  has 
been  prepared,  run  it  into  bladders 
that  have  been  extremely  well  clean- 
ed. The  smaller  they  are,  the  bet- 
ter the  lard  will  keep  :  if  the  air 
reaches  it,  it  becomes  rank.  Lard 
being  a  most  useful  article  for  fry- 
ing fish,  it  should  be  prepared  with 
care.  Mixed  with  butter,  it  makes 
fine  crust. 

HOLLOW  BISCUITS.  Mix  a 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  butter  with 
three  pounds  and  a  half  of  flour, 
adding  a  pint  of  warm  water.  Cut 
out  the  paste  with  a  wine  glass,  or 
a  small  tin,  and  set  them  in  a  brisk 
oven,  after  the  white  bread  is  drawn, 

HONES.  For  joining  them  to- 
gether, or  cementing  them  to  their 
frames,  melt  a  little  common  glue 
without  water,  with  half  its  weight 
of  rosin,  and  a  small  quantity  of  red 
ochre. 

HONEY.  The  honey  produced 
by  young  bees,  and  which  flows 
spontaneously,  is  purer  than  that 
expressed  from  the  comb ;  and  hence 
it  is  called  virgin  honey.  The  best 
sort  is  of  a  thick  consistence,  and 
of  a  whitish  colour,  inclining  to  yel- 
low :  it  possesses  an  agreeable  smell, 
and  a  pleasant  taste.  When  the 
combs  are  removed  from  the  hive, 
they  are  taken  by  the  hand  into  a 
sieve,  and  left  to  drain  into  a  ves- 
sel sufficiently  wide  for  the  purpose. 
After  it  has  stood  a  proper  time  to 
settle,  the  pure  honey  is  poured  in- 
to earthen  jars,  tied  down  close  to 
exclude  the  air. 

HONEY  VINEGAR.  When  ho- 
ney is  extracted  from  the  combs,  by 
means  of  pressure,  take  the  whole 
mass,  break  and  separate  it,  and  in- 
to each  tub  or  vessel  put  one  part 
of  combs,  and  two  of  water.  Set 
them  in  the  sun,  or  in  a  warm  place, 
and  cover  them  with  cloths.  Fer- 
mentation takes  place  in  a  few  days, 
and  continues  from  eight  to  twelve 
days,  according  to  the  temperature 
of  the  situati(  n  in  which  the  opera- 


HOO 


HOP 


fion  is  carried  on.  During  the  fer- 
mentation, stir  the  matter  from  time 
to  time,  and  press  it  down  with  the 
hand,  that  it  may  be  perfectly  soak- 
ed. When  the  fermentation  is  over, 
put  the  matter  to  drain  on  sieves  or 
strainers.  At  the  bottom  of  the 
vessels  will  be  found  a  yellow  liquor, 
which  must  be  thrown  away,  be- 
cause it  would  soon  contract  a  dis- 
agreeable smell,  which  it  would 
communicate  to  the  vinegar.  Then 
wash  the  tubs,  put  into  them  the 
water  separated  from  the  other  mat- 
ter, and  it  will  immediately  begin 
to  turn  sour.  The  tubs  must  then 
be  covered  again  with  cloths,  and 
kept  moderately  warm.  A  pellicle 
or  skin  is  formed  on  the  surface,  be- 
neath which  the  vinegar  acquires 
strength.  In  a  month's  time  it  be- 
gins to  be  sharp,  but  must  be  suf- 
fered to  stand  a  little  longer,  and 
then  put  into  a  cask,  of  which  the 
bunghole  is  to  be  left  open.  It  may 
then  be  used  like  any  other  vinegar. 
All  kinds  of  vinegar  may  be  strength- 
ened by  suffering  it  to  be  repeatedly 
frozen,  and  then  separating  the  up- 
per cake  of  ice  or  water  from  it. 

HOOPING  COUGH.  This  dis- 
order generally  attacks  children,  to 
whom  it  often  proves  fatal  for  want 
of  proper  management.  Those  who 
breathe  an  impure  air,  live  upon 
poor  sustenance,  drink  much  warm 
tea,  and  do  not  take  sufficient  ex- 
ercise, are  most  subject  to  this  con- 
vulsive cough.  In  the  beginning  of 
the  disorder,  the  child  should  be 
removed  to  a  change  of  air,  and  the 
juice  of  onions  or  horseradish  ap- 
plied to  the  soles  of  the  feet.  The 
diet  light  and  nourishing,  and  taken 
in  small  quantities  ;  the  drink  must 
be  lukewarm,  consisting  chiefly  of 
toast  and  water,  mixed  with  a  little 
white  wine.  If  the  cough  be  at- 
tended with  feverish  symptoms,  a 
gentle  emetic  must  be  taken,  of  ca- 
momile flowers,  and  afterwards  the 
foir^wiuig  liniment  applied  to  the  pit 
(No.  8.) 


of  the  stomach.  Dissolve  one  scruple 
of  tartar  emetic  in  two  ounces  of 
spring  water,  and  add  half  an  ounce 
of  the  tincture  of  cantharides  :  rub 
a  tea-spoonful  of  it  every  hour  on 
the  lower  region  of  the  stomach 
with  a  warm  piece  of  flannel,  and 
let  the  wetted  part  be  kept  warm 
with  flannel.  This  will  be  found  to 
be  the  best  remedy  for  the  hooping 
cough. 

HOPS.  The  quality  of  this  arti- 
cle is  generally  determined  by  the 
price  ;  yet  hops  may  be  strong,  and 
not  good.  They  should  be  bright, 
of  a  pleasant  flavour,  and  have  no 
foreign  leaves  or  bits  of  branches 
among  them.  The  hop  is  the  husk 
or  seed  pod  of  the  hop  vine,  as  the 
cone  is  that  of  the  fir  tree ;  and  the 
seeds  themselves  are  deposited,  like 
those  of  the  fir,  round  a  little  soft 
stalk,  enveloped  by  the  several  folds 
of  this  pod  or  cone.  If  in  the  ga- 
thering, leaves  or  tendrils  of  the 
vine  are  mixed  with  the  hops,  they 
may  help  to  increase  the  weight, 
but  will  give  a  bad  taste  to  the  beer ; 
and  if  they  abound,  they  will  spoil 
it.  Great  attention  therefore  must 
be  paid  to  see  that  they  are  free 
from  any  foreign  mixture.  There  are 
also  numerous  sorts  of  hops,  varying 
in  size,  in  form,  and  quality.  Those 
that  are  best  for  brewing  are  gene- 
rally known  by  the  absence  of  a 
brown  colour,  which  indicates  pe- 
rished hops ;  a  colour  between  green 
and  yellow,  a  great  quantity  of  the 
yellow  farina,  seeds  not  too  large 
or  hard,  a  clamminess  when  rubbed 
between  the  fingers,  and  a  lively 
pleasant  smell,  are  the  general  indi- 
cations of  good  hops.  At  almost 
any  age  they  retain  the  power  of 
preserving  beer,  but  not  of  impart- 
ing a  pleasant  flavour ;  and  there- 
fore new  hops  are  to  be  preferred. 
Supposing  them  to  be  of  a  good  qua- 
lity, a  pound  of  hops  may  be  allow- 
ed to  a  bushel  of  malt,  when  the 
beer  is  strong,  or  brewed  in  warm 

z  169 


HO  U 


H  O  T 


weather ;  but  under  other  circum- 
stances, half  the  quantity  will  be 
sufficient. 

HOP-TOP  SOUP.  Take  a  quan- 
tity of  hop-tops  when  they  are  in 
the  greatest  perfection,  tie  them  in 
small  bunches,  soak  them  in  water, 
and  put  them  to  some  thin  peas- 
soup.  Boil  them  up,  add  three 
spoonfuls  of  onion  juice,  with  salt 
and  pepper.  When  done  enough, 
serve  them  up  in  a  tureen,  with  sip- 
pets of  toasted  bread  at  the  bottom. 

HORSERADISH  POWDER.  In 
November  or  December,  slice  some 
horseradish  the  thickness  of  a  shil- 
ling, and  lay  it  to  dry  very  gradually 
in  a  Dutch  oven,  for  a  strong  heat 
would  very  soon  evaporate  its  fla- 
vour. When  quite  dry,  pound  it 
fine,  and  bottle  it. 

HORSERADISH  VINEGAR. 
Pour  a  quart  of  the  best  vinegar  on 
three  ounces  of  scraped  horseradish, 
an  ounce  of  minced  shalot,  and  a 
dram  of  cayenne.  Let  it  stand  a 
week,  and  it  will  give  an  excellent 
relish  to  cold  beef,  or  other  articles. 
A  little  black  pepper  and  mustard, 
celery  or  cress  seed,  may  be  added 
to  the  above. 

HOUSE  DRAINS.  The  smell  of 
house  drains  is  oftentimes  exceed- 
ingly offensive,  but  may  be  com- 
pletely prevented  by  pouring  down 
them  a  mixture  of  lime  water,  and 
the  ley  of  wood  ashes,  or  suds  that 
have  been  used  in  washing.  An 
article  known  by  the  name  of  a  sink 
trap  may  be  had  at  the  ironmongers, 
which  is  a  cheap  and  simple  appa- 
ratus, for  carrying  off  the  waste  wa- 
ter and  other  offensive  matter  from 
sinks  and  drains.  But  as  the  dif- 
fusion of  any  collection  of  filth 
tends  to  produce  disease  and  mor- 
tality, it  should  not  be  suffered  to 
settle  and  stagnate  near  our  dwell- 
ings, and  every  possible  care  should 
be  taken  to  render  them  sweet  and 
wholesome. 

HOUSE  TAX.     As  the  present 
170 


system  of  taxation  involves  so  im- 
portant a  part  of  the  annual  expen- 
diture, and  is  in  many  instances  at- 
tended with  so  much  vexation  and 
trouble,  it  concerns  every  house- 
keeper to  be  acquainted  with  the 
extent  of  his  own  liability,  and  of 
course  to  regulate  his  conveniences 
accordingly.  It  appears  then,  that 
every  inhabited  dwellinghouse,  con- 
taining not  more  than  six  windows  or 
lights,  is  subject  to  the  yearly  sum  of 
six  shillings  and  six-pence,  if  under 
the  value  of  five  pounds  a  year. 
But  every  dwellinghouse  worth  five 
pounds  and  under  twenty  pounds  rent 
by  the  year,pay  s  the  yearly  sum  of  one 
shilling  and  six-pence  in  the  pound  ; 
every  house  worth  twenty  pounds 
and  under  forty  pounds  a  year,  two 
shillings  and  three-pence  in  the 
pound ;  and  for  every  house  worth 
forty  pounds  and  upwards,  the  year- 
ly sum  of  two  shillings  and  ten-pence 
in  the  pound.  These  rents  however 
are  to  be  taken  from  the  rates  in 
which  they  are  charged,  and  not 
from  the  rents  which  are  actually 
paid. 

HOUSEHOLD  BREAD.  Four 
ounces  of  salt  are  dissolved  in  three 
quarts  of  water,  and  mixed  with  a 
pint  of  yeast.  This  mixture  is  pour- 
ed into  a  cavity  made  in  a  peck  of 
second  flour,  placed  in  a  large  pan 
or  trough.  When  properly  kneaded 
and  fermented,  it  is  divided  into 
pieces  of  a  certain  weight,  and 
baked.  Sometimes,  in  farm  houses, 
a  portion  of  rice  flour,  boiled  pota- 
toes, or  rye  meal,  is  mixed  with  the 
flour,previous  to  kneading  the  dough. 
The  rye  and  rice  serve  to  bind  the 
bread,  but  the  potatoes  render  it 
light  and  spongy. — Or,  for  a  larger 
quantity,  put  a  bushel  of  flour  into 
a  trough,  two  thirds  wheat  and  one 
of  rye.  Mix  a  quart  of  yeast  with 
nine  quarts  of  warm  water,  and 
work  it  into  the  flour  till  it  becomes 
tough.  Leave  it  to  rise  about  an 
hour :  and  as  soon  as  it  rises,  add 


HUN 


H  YS 


a  pound  of  salt,  and  as  much  warm 
water  as  before.  Work  it  well,  and 
cover  it  with  flannel.  Make  the 
loaves  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before 
the  oven  is  ready  ;  and  if  they  weigh 
tive  pounds  each,  they  will  require 
to  be  baked  two  hours  and  a  half. 

HUNG  BEEF.  Make  a  strong 
brine  with  bay  salt,  common  salt, 
and  saltpetre,  and  put  in  ribs  of 
beef  for  nine  days.  Then  dry  it,  or 
smoke  it  in  a  chimney.  Or  rub  the 
meat  with  salt  and  saltpetre,  and 
repeat  it  for  a  fortnight,  and  dry  it 
in  wood  smoke. 

HUNGARY  WATER.  To  one 
pint  of  highly  rectified  spirits  of  wine, 
put  an  ounce  of  the  oil  of  rosemary, 
and  two  drams  of  the  essence  of  am- 
bergris. Shake  the  bottle  well  se- 
veral times,  and  let  the  cork  remain 
out  twenty-four  hours.  Shake  it 
daily  for  a  whole  month,  and  then 
put  the  water  into  small  bottles  for 
use. 

HUNTER'S  BEEF.  To  a  round 
of  beef  that  weighs  twenty-five 
pounds,  allow  three  ounces  of  salt- 
petre, three  ounces  of  the  coarsest 
sugar,  an  ounce  of  cloves,  half  an 
ounce  of  allspice,  a  nutmeg,  and 
three  handfuls  of  common  salt,  all 
in  the  finest  powder.  The  beef  should 
hang  two  or  three  days  ;  then  rub 
the  above  mixture  well  into  it,  and 
turn  and  rub  it  every  day  for  two  or 
three  weeks.  The  bone  must  be 
taken  out  first.  When  to  be  dress- 
ed, dip  it  into  cold  water,  to  take 
off"  the  loose  spice  ;  bind  it  up  tight 
with  tape,  and  put  it  into  a  pan  with 
a  tea-cupful  of  water  at  the  bottom. 
Cover  the  top  of  the  meat  with  shred 
suet,  and  the  pan  with  a  brown  crust 
and  paper,  and  bake  it  five  or  six 
hours.      When   cold,  take  off*  the 


paste  and  tape.  The  gravy  is  very 
fine,  and  a  little  of  it  is  a  great  im- 
provement to  any  kind  of  hash  or 
soup.  Both  the  gravy  and  the  meat 
will  keep  some  time.  The  meat 
should  be  cut  with  a  very  sharp 
knife,  and  quite  smooth,  to  pi  event 
waste. 

HUNTER'S  PUDDING.  Mix  to- 
gether a  pound  of  suet,  a  pound  of 
flour,  a  pound  of  currants,  and  a 
pound  of  raisins  stoned  and  cut. 
Add  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon  finely 
shred,  six  peppercorns  in  tine  pow- 
der, four  eggs,  a  glass  of  brandy,  a 
little- salt,  and  as  much  milk  as  will 
make  it  of  a  proper  consistence. 
Boil  it  in  a  floured  cloth,  or  a  melon 
mould,  eight  or  nine  hours.  A  spoon- 
ful of  peach  water  may  sometimes 
be  added  to  change  the  flavour. 
This  pudding  will  keep  six  months 
after  it  is  boiled,  if  tied  up  in  the 
same  cloth  when  cold,  and  hung  up, 
folded  in  writing  paper  to*  preserve 
it  from  the  dust.  When  to  be  eaten, 
it  must  be  boiled  a  full  hour,  and 
served  with  sweet  sauce. 

HYSTERICS.  The  sudden  ef- 
fusion of  water  on  the  face  and  hands, 
while  the  fit  is  on,  and  especially 
immersing  the  feet  in  cold  water, 
will  aff'ord  relief.  Fetid  smells  are 
also  proper ;  such  as  the  burning  of 
feathers,  leather,  or  the  smoke  of 
sulphur,  and  the  application  of 
strong  volatile  alkali,  or  other  pun- 
gent matters  to  the  nostrils.  To 
efi'ect  a  radical  cure,  the  cold  bath, 
mineral  waters,  and  other  tonics  are 
necessary.  In  Germany  however, 
they  cure  hysteric  aff'ections  by  eat- 
ing carraway  seeds  finely  powdered, 
with  a  little  ginger  and  salt,  spread 
on  bread  and  butter  every  morning, 

173 


ICE 


ILI 


I. 


Ice  for  ICEING.  To  prepare 
artificial  ice  for  articles  of  confec- 
tionary, procure  a  few  pounds  of 
real  ice,  reduce  it  nearly  to  powder, 
and  throw  a  large  handful  or  more 
of  salt  amongst  it.  This  should  be 
done  in  as  cool  a  place  as  possible. 
The  ice  and  salt  being  put  into  a 
pail,  pour  some  cream  into  an  ice 
pot,  and  cover  it  down.  Then  im- 
merse it  in  the  ice,  and  draw  that 
round  the  pot,  so  as  to  enclose  every 
part  of  it.  In  a  few  minutes  stir  it 
well  with  a  spoon  or  spatula,  re- 
moving to  the  centre  those  parts 
which  have  iced  round  the  edges. 
If  thp  ice  cream  or  water  be  in  a 
a  form,  shut  the  bottom  close,  and 
move  the  whole  in  the  ice,  as  a  spoon 
cannot  be  used  for  that  purpose 
without  danger  of  waste.  There 
should  be  holes  in  the  pail,  to  let 
off  the  ice  as  it  thaws.  When  any 
fluid  tends  towards  cold,  moving  it 
quickly  will  encrease  that  tendency  ; 
and  likewise,  when  any  fluid  is  tend- 
ing to  heat,  stirring  it  will  facilitate 
its  boiling. 

ICE  CREAMS.  Mix  the  juice 
of  the  fruits  with  as  much  sugar  as 
will  be  wanted,  before  the  cream  is 
added,  and  let  the  cream  be  of  a 
middling  richness* 

ICE  WATERS.  Rub  some  fine 
sugar  on  lemon  or  orange,  to  give 
the  colour  and  flavour  ;  then  squeeze 
the  juice  of  either  on  its  respective 
peel.  Add  water  and  sugar  to  make 
a  fine  sherbet,  and  strain  it  before 
it  be  put  into  the  ice-pot.  If  orange, 
the  greater  proportion  should  be  of 
the  china  juice,  and  only  a  little  of 
Seville,  and  a  small  bit  of  the  peel 
grated  by  the  sugar.  The  juice  of 
currants  or  raspberries,  or  any  other 
sort  of  fruit,  being  squeezed  out, 
sweetened,  and  mixed  with  water, 
may  be  prepared  for  iceing  in  the 
same  way. 
172 


ICEING  FOR  CAKES.  Beat  and 
sift  half  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  put 
it  into  a  mortar  with  four  spoonfuls 
of  rose  water,  and  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  beaten  and  strained.  Whisk 
it  well,  and  when  the  cake  is  almost 
cold,  dip  a  feather  in  the  iceing,  and 
cover  the  cake  well.  Set  it  in  the 
oven  to  harden,  but  suffer  it  not  to 
remain  to  be  discoloured,  and  then 
keep  it  in  a  dry  place. — For  a  very 
large  cake,  beat  up  the  whites  of 
twenty  fresh  eggs,  and  reduce  to 
powder  a  pound  of  double  refined 
sugar,  sifted  through  a  lawn  sieve. 
Mix  these  well  in  a  deep  earthea 
pan,  add  orange  flower  water,  bare- 
ly suflScient  to  give  it  a  flavour,  and 
a  piece  of  fresh  lemon  peel.  Whisk 
it  for  three  hours  till  the  mixture  is 
thick  and  white,  then  with  a  thin 
broad  piece  of  board  spread  it  all 
over  the  top  and  sides,  and  set  it  in 
a  cool  oven,  and  an  hour  will  har- 
den it. 

ICEING  FOR  TARTS.  Beat 
well  together  the  yolk  of  an  e^g  and 
some  melted  butter,  smear  the  tarts 
with  a  feather,  and  sift  sugar  over 
them  as  they  are  put  into  the  oven. 
Or  beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg, 
wash  the  paste  with  it,  and  sift  over 
some  white  sugar. 

ILIAC  PASSION.  This  danger- 
ous malady,  in  which  the  motion  of 
the  bowels  is  totally  impeded  or  in- 
verted, arises  from  spasms,  violent 
exertions  of  the  body,  eating  of  un- 
ripe fruit,  drinking  of  sour  liquors, 
worms,  obstinate  costiveness,  and 
various  other  causes,  which  produce 
the  most  excruciating  pain  in  the 
region  of  the  abdomen.  Large 
blisters  applied  to  the  most  painful 
part,  emollient  clysters,  fomenta- 
tions, and  the  warm  bath,  are 
amongst  the  most  likely  means  ;  but 
in  many  instances,  this  dfsorder  is 
not  to  be  controuled  by  medicine^ 


INC 


IND 


No  reniedy  however  can  be  applied 
with  greater  safety  or  advantage, 
than  frequent  doses  of  castor  oil : 
and  if  this  fail,  quicksilver  in  a  na- 
tural state  is  the  only  medicine  on 
which  any  reliance  can  be  placed. 

IMPERIAL.  Put  into  a  stone 
jar  two  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar, 
and  the  juice  and  paring  of  two  le- 
mons. Pour  on  them  seven  quarts 
of  boiling  water,  stir  it  well,  and 
cover  it  close.  When  cold,  sweeten 
it  with  loaf  sugar;  strain,  bottle, 
and  cork  it  tight.  This  makes  a  very 
pleasant  and  wholesome  liquor  ;  but 
if  drunk  too  freely,  it  becomes  in- 
jurious. In  bottling  it  off,  add  half 
a  pint  of  rum  to  the  whole  quan- 
titv. 

IMPERIAL  CREAM.  Boil  a 
quart  of  cream  with  the  thin  rind  of 
a  lemon,  and  stir  it  till  nearly  cold. 
Have  ready  in  a  dish  or  bowl,  in 
which  it  is  to  be  served,  the  juice 
of  three  lemons  strained,  mixed 
with  as  much  sugar  as  will  sweeten 
the  cream.  Pour  this  into  the  dish 
from  a  large  tea-pot,  holding  it 
high,  and  moving  it  about  to  mix 
with  the  juice.  It  should  be  made 
at  least  six  hours  before  it  is  used  ; 
and  if  the  day  before,  it  would  be 
still  better. 

IMPERIAL  WATER.  Put  into 
an  earthen  pan,  four  ounces  of  su- 
gar, and  the  rind  of  three  lemons. 
Boil  an  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar  in 
three  quarts  of  water,  and  pour  it 
on  the  sugar  and  lemon.  Let  it  stand 
all  night,  clear  it  through  a  bag, 
and  bottle  it. 

INCENSE.  Compound  in  a  mar- 
ble mortar,  a  large  quantity  of  lig- 
num rhoditrtn,  and  anise,  with  a 
little  powder  of  dried  orange  peel, 
and  gum  benzoin.  Add  some  gum 
dragon  dissolved  in  rose  water,  and 
a  little  civet.  Beat  the  whole  to- 
gether, form  the  mixture  into  small 
cakes,  and  place  them  on  paper  to 
dry.  One  of  these  cakes  being 
burnt,    will    diffuse    an    agreeable 


odour  throughout  the  largest  apart- 
ment. 

INDELIBLE  INK.  Gum  arabic 
dissolved  in  water,  and  well  mixed 
with  fine  ivory  black,  will  make 
writing  indelible.  If  the  writing  be 
afterwards  varnished  over  with  the 
white  of  an  egg  clarified,  it  will  pre- 
serve it  to  any  length  of  time. 

INDIAN  PICKLE.  Lay  a  pound 
of  white  ginger  in  water  one  night ; 
then  scrape,  slice,  and  lay  it  in  salt 
in  a  pan,  till  the  other  ingredients 
are  prepared.  Peel  and  slice  a 
pound  of  garlic,  lay  it  in  salt  three 
days,  and  afterwards  dry  it  in  the 
sun.  Salt  and  dry  some  long  pep- 
per in  the  same  way  :  then  prepare 
various  sorts  of  vegetables  in  the 
following  manner.  Quarter  some 
small  white  cabbages,  salt  them 
three  days,  then  squeeze  and  lay 
them  in  the  sun  to  dry.  Cut  some 
cauliflowers  into  branches,  take  off 
the  green  part  of  radishes,  cut  ce- 
lery into  lengths  of  about  three 
inches,  put  in  young  French  beans 
whole,  and  the  shoots  of  elder, 
which  will  look  like  bamboo.  Choose 
apples  and  cucumbers  of  a  sort  the 
least  seedy,  quarter  them,  or  cut 
them  in  slices.  All  must  be  salted, 
drained,  and  dried  in  the  sun,  ex- 
cept the  latter,  over  which  some 
boiling  vinegar  must  be  poured.  In 
twelve  hours  drain  them,  but  use 
no  salt.  Put  the  spice  into  a  large 
stone  jar,  adding  the  garlic,  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  mustard  seed,  an 
ounce  of  turmeric,  and  vinegar  suf- 
ficient for  the  quantity  of  pickle. 
When  the  vegetables  are  dried  and 
ready,  the  following  directions  must 
be  observed.  Put  some  of  them  in- 
to a  half-gallon  stone  jar,  and  pour 
over  them  a  quart  of  boiling  vinegar. 
Next  day  take  out  those  vegetables ; 
and  when  drained,  put  them  into  a 
large  stock  jar.  Boil  the  vinegar, 
pour  it  over  some  more  of  the  vege- 
tables, let  them  lie  all  night,  and 
complete  the  operation  as  before. 
173 


IN  D 


INF 


Thus  proceed  till  each  set  is  cleansed 
from  the  dust  they  may  have  con- 
tracted. Then  to  every  gallon  of 
vinegar,  put  two  ounces  of  flour  of 
mustard,  gradually  mixing  in  a  little 
of  it  boiling  hot,  and  stop  the  jar 
tight.  The  whole  of  the  vinegar 
should  be  previously  scalded,  and  set 
to  cool  before  it  is  put  to  the  spice. 
This  pickle  will  not  be  ready  for  a 
year,  but  a  small  quantity  may  be 
got  ready  for  eating  in  a  fortnight, 
by  only  giving  the  cauHflower  one 
scald  in  water,  after  salting  and 
drying  as  above,  but  without  the 
preparative  vipcgar  :  then  pour  the 
vinegar,  which  has  the  spice  and 
garlic,  boiling  hot  over  it.  If  at 
any  time  it  be  found  that  the  ve- 
getables have  not  swelled  properly, 
boiling  the  pickle,  and  pouring  it 
hot  over  them,will  make  them  plump. 
— Another  way.  Cut  the  heads  of 
some  good  cauliflowers  into  pieces, 
and  add  some  slices  of  the  inside 
of  the  stalk.  Put  to  them  a  white 
cabbage  cut  in  pieces,  with  inside 
slices  of  carrot,  turnips,  and  onions. 
Boil  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water, 
simmer  the  vegetables  in  it  one  mi- 
nute, drain  them,  and  dry  them  on 
tins  over  an  oven  till  they  are 
shriveled  up ;  then  put  them  into  a 
jar,  and  prepare  the  following  pickle. 
To  two  quarts  of  good  vinegar,  put 
an  ounce  of  the  flour  of  mustard, 
one  of  ginger,  one  of  long  pepper, 
four  of  cloves,  a  few  shalots,  and  a 
little  horseradish.  Boil  the  vinegar, 
put  the  vegetables  into  a  jar,  and 
pour  it  hot  over  them.  When  cold, 
tiethem  down,  and  add  more  vine- 
gar afterwards,  if  necessary.  In 
the  course  of  a  week  or  two,  the 
pickle  will  be  fit  for  use. 

INDIGESTION.  Persons  of 
weak  delicate  habits,  particularly 
the  sedentary  and  studious,  are  fre- 
quently subject  to  indigestion.  The 
liberal  use  of  cold  water  alone,  in 
drinking,  washing,  and  bathing,  is 
often  suflicient  to  effect  a  cure. 
174 


Drinking  of  sea  water,  gentle  pur- 
gatives, with  bark  and  bitters,  light 
and  nourishing  food,  early  rising, 
and  gentle  exercise  in  the  open  air, 
are  also  of  great  importance. 

INFECTION.  During  the  pre- 
valence of  any  infectious  disease, 
every  thing  requires  to  be  kept  per- 
fectly clean,  and  the  sick  room  to 
be  freely  ventilated.  The  door  or 
window  should  generally  be  open, 
the  bed  curtains  only  drawn  to  shade 
the  light,  clothes  frequently  changed 
and  washed  in  cold  water,  all  dis- 
charges from  the  patient  instantly 
removed,  and  the  floor  near  the  bed 
rubbed  every  day  with  a  wet  cloth. 
Take  also  a  hot  brick,  lay  it  in  an 
earthen  pan,  and  pour  pickle  vine- 
gar upon  it.  This  will  refresh  the 
patient,  as  well  as  purify  the  sur- 
rounding atmosphere.  Those  who 
are  obliged  to  attend  the  patients, 
should  not  approach  them  fasting, 
nor  inhale  their  breath  ;  and  while 
in  their  apartment,  should  avoid  eat- 
ing and  drinking,  and  swallowing 
their  own  saliva.  It  will  also  be  of 
considerable  service  to  smell  vine- 
gar and  camphor,  to  fumigate  the 
room  with  tobacco,  and  to  chew 
myrrh  and  cinnamon,  which  pro- 
mote a  plentiful  discharge  from  the 
mouth.  As  soon  as  a  person  has 
returned  from  visiting  an  infected 
patient,  he  ought  immediately  to 
wash  his  mouth  and  hands  with 
vin^ear,  to  change  his  clothes,  and 
expose  them  to  the  fresh  air ;  and 
to  drink  an  infusion  of  sage,  or 
other  aromatic  herbs.  After  the  dis- 
order has  subsided,  the  walls  of  the 
room  should  be  washed  with  hot  lime, 
which  will  render  it  perfectly  sweet. 

INFLAMMATIONS.  In  exter- 
nal inflammations,  attended  with 
heat  and  swelling  of  the  part  af- 
fected, cooling  applications  and  a 
little  opening  medicine  are  the  best 
adapted  ;  and  in  some  cases,  cata- 
plasms of  warm  emollient  hgrbs  may 
be  nised  with  advantage. 


NK 


NK 


INFLAMMATION  OF  THE 
EYES.  In  this  case  leeches  should 
be  applied  to  the  temples  ;  and  af- 
ter the  bleeding  has  ceased,  a  small 
blister  may  be  tried,  with  a  little 
opening  medicine.  Much  benefit 
has  been  derived  from  shaving  the 
head,  cutting  the  hair,  and  bathing 
the  feet  in  warm  water.  If  the  in- 
flammation has  arisen  from  particles 
of  iron  or  steel  falling  into  the  eyes, 
the  offending  matter  is  best  extract- 
ed by  the  application  of  the  load- 
stone. If  eyes  are  blood-shotten,  the 
necessary  rules  are,  an  exclusion 
from  light,  cold  fomentations,  and 
abstinence  from  animal  food  and 
stimulating  liquors.  For  a  bruise 
in  the  eye,  occasioned  by  any  acci- 
dent, the  best  remedy  is  a  rotten 
apple,  and  some  conserve  of  roses. 
Fold  them  in  a  piece  of  thin  cam- 
bric, apply  it  to  the  part  affected, 
and  it  will  take  out  the  bruise. 

INFLAMMATION  OF  THE 
BOWELS.  This  is  a  complaint  that 
requires  great  care.  If  the  belly  be 
swelled,  and  painful  to  the  touch, 
apply  flannels  to  it,  dipped  in  hot 
water  and  wrung  out,  or  use  a  warm 
bath.  A  blister  should  be  employed 
as  soon  as  possible,  and  mild  emol- 
lient injections  of  gruel  or  barley 
water,  till  stools  be  obtained.  The 
patient  should  be  placed  between 
blankets,  and  supplied  with  light 
gruel ;  and  when  the  violence  of  the 
disorder  is  somewhat  abated,  the 
pain  may  be  removed  by  opiate 
clysters.  A  common  bread  and  milk 
poultice,  applied  as  warm  as  possi- 
ble to  the  part  affected,  has  also 
been  attended  with  great  success  : 
but  as  this  disorder  is  very  danger- 
ous, it  would  be  proper  to  call  in 
medical  assistance  without  delay. 

INK.  To  make  an  excellent  writ- 
ing ink,  take  a  pound  of  the  best 
Aleppo  g^Us,  half  a  pound  of  cop- 
peras, a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  gum 
arable,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
white  sugar  candy.  Bruise  the  galls 
and  beat  the  other  ingredients  fine, 


and  infuse  them  together  in  three 
quarts  of  rain  water.  Let  the  mix- 
ture stand  by  the  fire  three  or  four 
days,  and  then  boil  it  gently  over  a 
slow  fire  ;  or  if  infused  in  cold  wa- 
ter, and  afterwards  well  strained, 
it  will  nearly  answer  the  same  pur- 
pose. Care  must  be  taken  to  ob- 
tain good  materials,  and  to  mix 
them  in  due  proportion.  To  pre- 
serve the  ink  from  mouldiness,  it 
should  be  put  into  a  large  glass  bot- 
tle with  a  ground  stopper,  and  fre- 
quently shaked ;  but  if  a  crust  be 
formed,  it  should  be  carefully  taken 
out,  and  not  mixed  with  the  ink. 
A  little  more  gum  and  sugar  can- 
dy may  be  added,  to  render  the 
ink  more  black  and  glossy;  but 
too  much  will  make  it  sticky,  and 
unfit  for  use. — Another  method 
is  to  bruise  a  pound  of  good  galls, 
black  and  heavy,  and  put  them  into 
a  stone  jar.  Then  pour  on  a  gallon 
of  rain  water,  nearly  of  a  boiling 
heat,  and  let  it  stand  by  the  fire 
about  a  fortnight.  Afterwards  add 
four  ounces  of  green  copperas  or 
sulphate  of  iron,  four  ounces  of  log- 
wood shavings,  one  ounce  of  alum, 
one  of  sugar  candy,  and  four  of  gum 
arable.  Let  the  whole  remain  about 
two  days  longer  in  a  moderate  heat, 
stir  the  ingredients  together  once  or 
twice  a  day,  and  keep  the  jar  slightly 
covered.  The  ink  is  then  to  be 
strained  through  a  flanneH  put  into 
a  bottle  with  a  little  brandy  at  the 
top,  well  corked,  and  set  by  for  use 
in  a  temperate  place.  A  few  cloves 
bruised  with  gum  arable,  and  put 
into  the  bottle,  will  prevent  the  ink 
from  getting  mouldy  ;  and  if  some 
of  superior  quality  be  required, 
white  wine  or  vinegar  must  be  used 
instead  of  water. 

INK  POWDER.  For  the  con- 
venience of  travellers  by  sea  or  by 
land,  ink  powders  have  been  invent- 
ed, which  consist  of  nothing  else 
than  the  substances  employed  in  the 
composition  of  common  ink,  pound- 
ed and  pulverized,  so  that  it  be  in- 
175 


INS 


IRI 


stantaneousl^i  converted  into  ink  by 
mixing  it  up  with  a  little  water. 
Walkden's  ink  powder  is  by  far  the 
best. 

INK  STAINS.  The  stains  of 
ink,  on  cloth,  paper,  or  wood,  may 
be  removed  by  almost  all  acids ; 
but  those  acids  are  to  be  preferred, 
which  are  least  likely  to  injure  the 
texture  of  the  stained  substance. 
The  muriatic  acid,  diluted  with  five 
or  six  times  its  weight  of  water, 
may  be  applied  to  the  spot;  and 
after  a  minute  or  two,  may  be  wash- 
ed off,  repeating  the  application  as 
often  as  it  is  found  necessary.  But 
the  vegetable  acids  are  attended 
with  less  risk,  and  are  equally  ef- 
fectual. A  solution  of  lemon  or  tar- 
tareous  acid,  in  water,  may  be  ap- 
plied to  the  most  delicate  fabrics, 
without  any  danger  of  in  juring  them  : 
and  the  same  solution  will  discharge 
writing,  but  not  printing  ink.  Hence 
they  may  be  employed  in  cleaning 
books  which  have  Ijeen  defaced  by 
writing  on  the  margin,  without  im- 
pairing the  text.  Lemon  juice  and 
the  juice  of  sorrel  will  also  remove 
ink  stains,  but  not  so  easily  as  the 
concrete  acid  of  lemons,  or  citric 
acid.  On  some  occasions  it  will  be 
found  sufficient,  only  to  dip  the 
spotted  part  in  the  fine  melted  tal- 
low of  a  mould  candle,  and  after- 
wards wash  it  in  the  usual  way. 

INSECTS.  The  most  effectual 
remedy  against  the  whole  tribe  of 
insects,  which  prey  upon  plants  and 
vegetables,  is  the  frequent  use  of 
sulphur,  which  should  be  dusted 
upon  the  leaves  through  a  muslin 
rag  or  dredging  box,  or  fumed  on  a 
chaffing  dish  of  burning  charcoal. 
This  application  will  also  improve 
the  healthiness  of  plants,  as  well  as 
destroy  their  numerous  enemies. 
Another  way  is  to  boil  together  an 
equal  quantity  of  rue,  wormwood, 
and  tobacco,  in  common  water,  so 
as  to  make  the  liquor  strong,  and 
then  to  sprinkle  it  on  the  leaves 
every  morning  and  evening.  By 
170 


pouring  boiling  water  on  some  to- 
bacco and  the  tender  shoots  of  el- 
der, a  strong  decoction  may  also 
be  made  for  this  purpose,  and  shed 
upon  fruit  trees  with  a  brush  :  the 
quantity,  about  an  ounce  of  tobacco 
and  two  handfuls  of  elder  to  a  gal- 
lon of  water.  Elder  water  sprinkled 
on  honeysuckles  and  roses,  will  pre- 
vent insects  from  lodging  on  them. 
If  a  quantity  of  wool  happen  to  be 
infected  with  insects,  it  may  be 
cleansed  in  the  following  manner. 
Dissolve  a  pound  of  alum,  and  as 
much  cream  of  tartar,  in  a  quart  of 
boiling  water,  and  add  two  full  gal- 
lons of  cold  water  to  it.  The  wool 
is  then  to  be  soaked  in  it  for  several 
days,  and  afterwards  to  be  washed 
and  dried. 

INSIDE  OF  A  SIRLOIN.  Cut 
out  all  the  meat  and  a  little  fat,  of 
the  inside  of  a  cold  sirloin  of  beef, 
and  divide  it  into  pieces  of  a  finger's 
size  and  length.  Dredge  the  meat 
with  flour,  and  fry  it  in  butter,  of 
a  nice  brown.  Drain  the  butter 
from  the  meat,  and  toss  it  up  in  a 
rich  gravy,  seasoned  with  pepper, 
salt,  anchovy,  and  shalot.  It  must 
not  be  suft'ered  to  boil  ;  and  before 
serving,  add  two  spoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar. Garnish  with  crimped  parslev. 

INVISIBLE  INK.  Boil  half  an 
ounce  of  gold  litharge  well  pounded, 
with  a  little  vinegar  in  a  brass  ves- 
sel for  half  an  hour.  Filter  the 
liquid  through  paper,  and  preserve 
it  in  a  bottle  closely  corked.  This 
ink  is  to  be  used  with  a  clean  pen, 
and  the  writing  when  dry  will  be- 
come invisible.  But  if  at  any  time 
it  be  washed  over  with  the  following 
mixture,  it  will  instantly  become 
black  and  legible.  Put  some  quick- 
lime and  red  orpiracnt  in  water, 
place  some  warm  ashes  under  it  for 
a  whole  day,  filter  the  liquor,  and 
cork  it  down.  Whenever  applied 
in  the  slightest  degree,  it  will  ren- 
der the  writing  visible. 

IRISH  BEEF.  To  twenty  pounds 
of  beef,  put  -one  ounce  of  allspice, 


IRO 


ITA 


a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  cin- 
itamon,  and  nutraeg,  and  half  an 
ounce  each  of  pepper  and  saltpetre. 
Mix  all  together,  and  add  some  com- 
mon salt.  Put  the  meat  into  a  salt- 
ing pan,  turn  it  every  day,  and  rub 
it  with  the  seasoning.  After  a  month 
take  out  the  bone,  and  boil  the  meat 
in  the  liquor  it  was  pickled  in,  with 
a  proper  quantity  of  water.  It 
may  be  stuffed  with  herbs,  and  eaten 
cold. 

IRISH  PANCAKES.  Beat  eight 
yolks  and  four  whites  of  eggs,  strain 
them  into  a  pint  of  cream,  sweeten 
with  sugar,  and  add  a  grated  nut- 
meg. Stir  three  ounces  of  butter 
over  the  lire,  and  as  it  melts  pour  it 
to  the  cream,  which  should  be  warm 
when  the  eggjs  are  put  to  it.  Mix 
it  smooth  with  nearly  half  a  pint  of 
flour,  and  fry  the  pancakes  very  thin ; 
the  first  with  a  bit  of  butter,  but  not 
the  others.  Serve  up  several  at  a 
time,  one  upon  another. 

IRISH  STEW.  Take  five  thick 
mutton  chops,  or  two  pounds  ofi^ 
the  neck  or  loin ;  four*  pounds  of 
potatoes,  peeled  and  divided  ;  and 
half  a  pound  of  onions,  peeled  and 
sliced.  Put  a  layer  of  potatoes  at 
the  bottom  of  a  stewpan,  then  a 
couple  of  chops,  and  some  of  the 
onions,  and  so  on  till  the  pan  is 
quite  full.  Add  a  small  spoonful  of 
white  pepper,  about  one  and  a  half 
of  salt,  and  three  quarters  of  a  pint 
of  broth  or  gravy.  Cover  all  close 
down,  so  as  to  prevent  the  escape  of 
steam,  and  let  them  stew  two  hours 
on  a  very  slow  fire.  It  must  not  be 
suffered  to  burn,  nor  be  done  too 
fast :  a  small  slice  of  ham  will  be  an 
agreeable  addition. 

IRON  MOULDS.  Wet  the  in- 
jured part,  rub  on  a  little  of  the 
essential  salt  of  lemons,  and  lay  it 
on  a  hot  Avaterplate.  If  the  linen 
becomes  dry,  wet  it  and  renew 
the  process,  observing  that  the  plate 
is  kept  boiling  hot.  Much  of  the 
powder  sold  under  the  name  of  salt 
of  lemons  is  a  spurious  preparation, 


and  therefore  it  is  necessary  to  dip 
the  linen  in  a  good  deal  of  water, 
and  to  wash  it  as  soon  as  the  stain 
is  removed,  in  order  to  prevent  the 
part  from  being  worn  into  holes  by 
the  acid. 

IRON  POTS.  To  cure  cracks  or 
fissures  in  iron  pots  or  pans,  mix 
some  finely  sifted  lime  with  whites 
of  eggs  well  beaten,  till  reduced  to 
a  paste.  Add  some  iron  file  dust, 
and  apply  the  composition  to  the  in- 
jured part,  and  it  will  soon  becdme 
hard  and  fit  for  use. 

IRON  AND  STEEL.  Various 
kinds  of  polished  articles,  in  iron 
and  steel,  are  in  danger  of  being 
rusted  and  spoiled,  by  an  exposure 
to  air  and  moisture.  A  mixture  of 
nearly  equal  quantities  of  fat,  oil 
varnish,  jand  the  rectified  spirits  of 
turpentine,  applied  with  a  sponge, 
will  give  a  varnish  to  those  articles, 
which  prevents  their  contracting  any 
spots  of  rust,  and  preserves  their 
brilliancy,  even  though  exposed  to 
air  and  water.  Common  articles  of 
steel  or  iron  may  be  preserved  from 
injury  by  a  composition  of  one 
pound  of  fresh  lard,  an  ounce  of 
camphor,  two  drams  of  black  lead 
powder,  and  two  drams  of  dragon's 
blood  in  fine  powder,  melted  over 
a  slow  fire,  and  rubbed  on  with  a 
brush  or  sponge,  after  it  has  been 
left  to  cool. 

ISINGLASS  JELLY.  Boil  an 
ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  quart  of  wa- 
ter, with  a  few  cloves,  lemon  peel, 
or  wine,  till  it  is  reduced  to  half  the 
quantity.  Then  strain  it,  and  add  a 
little  sugar  and  lemon  juice. 

ISSUE  OINTMENT.  For  dress- 
ing blisters,  in  order  to  keep  them 
open,  make  an  ointment  of  half  an 
ounce  of  Spanish  flies  finely  pow- 
dered, mixed  with  six  ounces  of  yel- 
low basilicon  ointment. 

ITALIAN  BEEF  STEAKS.  Cut 
a  fine  large  steak  from  a  ru4np  that 
has  been  well  kept,  or  from  any  ten- 
der part.  Beat  it,  and  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  onion.     Lay  it  in 

A  a  177 


JAR 


J  EL 


an  iron  stewpaii  that  has  a  cover  to 
fit  it  quite  close,  and  set  it  by  the 
side  of  the  fire  without  water.  It 
must  have  a  strong  heat,  but  care 
must  be  taken  that  it  does  not  burn : 
in  two  or  three  hours  it  will  be  quite 
tender,  and  then  serve  with  its  own 
gravy. 

ITCH.  Rub  the  parts  affected 
with  the  ointment  of  sulphur,  and 
keep  the  body  gently  open  by  tak- 
ing every  day  a  small  dose  of  sul- 
phur and  treacle.  When  the  cure 
is  effected,  let  the  clothes  be  care- 
fully fumigated  with  sulphur,  or  the 
contagion  will  again  be  communi- 


cated. The  dry  itch  requires  a  ve- 
getable diet,  and  the  liberal  use  of 
anti-scorbutics  :  the  parts  affected 
may  be  rubbed  with  a  strong  decoc- 
tion of  tobacco. 

IVORY.  Bones  and  ivory  may 
be  turned  to  almost  any  use,  by  being 
softened  in  the  following  manner. 
Boil  some  sage  in  strong  vinegar, 
strain  the  liquor  through  a  piece  of 
cloth,  and  put  in  the  articles.  In 
proportion  to  the  time  they  are 
steeped  in  the  liquor,  ivory  or  bones 
will  be  capable  of  receiving  any  new 
impression. 


J. 


Japan  blacking.  Take  three 
ounces  of  ivory  black,  two  ounces 
of  coarse  sugar,  one  ounce  of  sul- 
phuric acid,  one  ounce  of  muriatic 
acid,  a  lemon,  a  table-spoonful  of 
sweet  oil,  and  a  pint  of  vinegar. 
First  mix  the  ivory  black  and  sweet 
oil  together,  then  the  lemon  and 
sugar,  with  a  little  vinegar  to  qualify 
the  blacking  ;  then  add  both  the 
acids,  and  mix  them  all  well  toge- 
ther. The  sugar,  oil,  and  vinegar 
prevent  the  acids  from  injuring  the 
leather,  and  add  to  the  lustre  of  the 
blacking.-- A  cheap  method  is  to  take 
two  ounces  of  ivory  black,  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  brown  sugar,  and  half 
a  table-spoonful  of  sweet  oil.  Mix 
them  well,  and  then  gradually  add 
Jialf  a  pint  of  small  beer. — Or  take 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ivory  black, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  moist  sugar, 
a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  a  piece  of 
tallow  about  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
and  a  small  piece  of  gum  arable. 
Make  a  paste  of  the  flour,  and  whilst 
hot,  put  in  the  tallow,  then  the  su- 
gar, and  afterwards  mix  the  whole 
well  together  in  a  quart  of  water. 

JARGANEL  PEARS.  These  may 
be  preserved  in  a  fine  state,  in  the 
178 


following  manner.  Pare  them  very 
thin,  simmer  in  a  thin  syrup,  and 
let  them  lie  a  day  or  two.  Make 
the  syrup  richer,  and  simmer  them 
again.  Repeat  this  till  they  are 
clear ;  then  drain,  and  dry  them  in 
the  sun  or  a  cool  oven  a  very  little 
time.  They  may  also  be  kept  in 
syrup,  and  dried  as  wanted,  which 
makes  them  more  moist  and  rich. 

JAUNDICE.  The  diet  of  persons 
affected  with  the  jaundice  ought  to 
be  light  and  cooling,  consisting 
chiefly  of  ripe  fruits,  and  mild  ve- 
getables. Many  have  been  effectu- 
ally cured,  by  living  for  several  days 
on  raw  eggs.  Buttermilk  whey 
sweetened  with  honey,  or  an  infu- 
sion of  marshmallow  roots,  ought 
to  constitute  the  whole  of  the  pa- 
tient's drink.  Honey,  anti-scorbu- 
tics, bitters,  and  blisters  applied  to 
the  region  of  the  liver,  have  all  been 
found  serviceable  in  the  cure  of  the 
jaundice. 

JELLY  FOR  COLD  FISH.  Clean 
a  maid,  and  put  it  into  three  quarts 
of  water,  with  a  calf's  foot,  or  cow 
heel.  Add  a  stick  of  horseradish, 
an  onion,  three  blades  of  mace, 
some  white  pepper,  a  piece  of  lemon 


^     ♦ 


KET 


KET 


peel,  and  a  good  slice  of  lean  gam- 
mon. Stew  it  to  a  jelly,  and  strain 
it  off.  When  cold,  remove  every 
particle  of  fat,  take  it  up  from  the 
sediment,  and  boil  it  vi'ith  a  glass  of 
sherry,  the  whites  of /our  or  five 
eggs,  and  a  piece  of  lemon.  Boil 
without  stirring  ;  after  a  few  mi- 
nutes set  it  by  to  stand  half  an  hour, 
and  strain  it  through  a  bag  or  sieve, 
with  a  cloth  in  it.  Cover  the  fish 
with  it  when  cold. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES. 
These  must  be  taken  up  the  moment 
they  are  boiled  enough,  or  they  will 
be  too  soft.  They  may  be  served 
plain,  or  with  fricassee  sauce. 

JUGGED  HARE.  After  clean- 
ing and  skinning  an  old  hare,  cut  it 
up,  and  season  it  with  pepper,  salt, 
allspice,  pounded  mace,  and  a  little 
nutmeg.  Put  it  into  ajar  with  an 
onion,  a  clove  or  two,  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  a  piece  of  coarse  beef, 
and  the  carcase  bones  over  all.  Tie 
the  jar  down  with  a  bladder  and 
strong  paper,  and  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan of  water  up  to  the  neck,  but  no 
higher.  Keep  the  water  boiling  five 
hours.  When  it  is  to  be  served, 
boil  up  the  gravy  with  flour  and  but- 


ter ;  and  if  the  meat  get  cold,  warm 
it  up  in  the  gravy,  but  do  not  boil  it. 
JUGGED  VEAL.  Cut  some 
slices  of  veal,  and  put  them  into  an 
earthen  jug,  with  a  blade  of  mace, 
a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg. 
Add  a  sprig  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a 
bit  of  lemon  peel.  Cover  the  jug 
close,  that  the  steam  may  not  es- 
cape ;  set  it  in  a  pot  of  boiling  wa- 
ter, and  about  three  hours  will  do  it. 
Half  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  put 
in  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  a  little  lemon  juice,  or  lemon 
pickle.  Turn  it  out  of  the  jug  into 
a  dish,  take  out  the  herbs  and  lemon 
peel,  and  send  it  to  table  garnished 
with  lemon. 

JUMBLES.  Powder  and  sift  half 
a  pound  of  fine  lump  sugar,  and 
mix  it  with  half  a  pound  of  dried 
flour.  Beat  up  two  eggs  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  orange  or  rose  water, 
shred  the  peel  of  half  a  lemon  very 
fine,  mix  the  whole  together,  and 
make  it  into  a  paste.  Cut  the  paste 
into  fancy  shapes,  bake  them  slight- 
ly on  tins,  and  take  them  out  of  the 
oven  as  soon  as  the  edges  begin  to 
brown. 


K, 


Ketchup.  The  liquor  obtained 
from  mushrooms,  approaches  tlie 
nearest  to  meat  gravy,  in  flavour 
and  quality,  of  any  other  vegetable 
juice,  and  is  the  best  substitute  for 
it,  in  any  of  those  savoury  dishes 
intended  to  please  the  palate.  But 
in  order  to  have  it  wholesome  and 
good,  it  must  be  made  at  home,  the 
mushrooms  employed  in  preparing 
ketchup  for  sale  being  generally  in 
a  state  of  putrefaction  ;  and  in  a  few 
days  after  the  mushrooms  are  gather- 
ed, they  become  the  habitation  of 
myriads  of  insects.  In  order  to  pro- 
cure and  preserve  the  flavour  of  the 


vegetable  for  any  considerable  time, 
the  mushrooms  should  be  sought 
from  the  beginning  of  September,  and 
care  taken  tp  select  only  the  right 
sort,  and  suqh  as  are  fresh  gathered. 
Full  grown  flaps  are  the  best  for 
ketchup.  Place  a  layer  of  these 
at  the  bottom  of  a  deep  earthen 
pan,  and  sprinkle  them  with  salt; 
then  another  layer  of  mushrooms, 
and  some  more  salt  on  them,  and  so 
on  alternately.  Let  them  remain 
two  or  jthree  hours,  by  which  time 
the  salt  will  have  penetrated  the 
mushrooms,  and  rendered  them  easy 
to  break.  Then  pound  them  in  a 
179        ^ 


KEE 


KEE 


mortar,  or  mash  them  with  the  hand, 
and  let  them  remain  two  days  longer, 
stirring  them  up,  and  mashing  them 
well  each  day.  Then  pour  them  in- 
to a  stone  jar,  and  to  each  quart 
add  an  ounce  of  whole  black  pepper. 
Stop  the  jar  very  close,  set  it  in  a 
stewpan  of  boiling  water,  and  keep 
it  boiling  at  least  for  two  hours. 
Take  out  the  jar,  pour  the  juice  clear 
from  the  settlings  through  a  hair 
sieve  into  a  clean  stewpan,  and  let 
it  boil  very  gently  for  half  an  hour. 
If  intended  to  be  exquisitely  fine,  it 
may  be  boiled  till  reduced  to  half 
the  quantity.  It  will  keep  much 
better  in  this  concentrated  state, 
and  only  half  the  quantity  be  re- 
quired. Skim  it  well  in  boiling, 
and  pour  it  into  a  clean  dry  jar ; 
cover  it  close,  let  it  stewid  in  a  cool 
place  till  the  next  day,  and  then 
pour  it  off  as  gently  as  possible,  so 
as  not  to  disturb  the  settlings.  If 
a  table-spoonful  of  brandy  be  added 
to  each  pint  of  ketchup,  after  stand- 
ing a  while,  a  fresh  sediment  will 
be  deposited,  from  which  the  liquor 
is  quietly  to  be  poured  off,  and  bot- 
tled into  half  pints,  as  it  is  best  pre- 
served in  small  quantities,  which  are 
soon  used.  It  must  be  closely  cork- 
ed and  sealed  down,  or  dipped  in 
bottle  cement,  that  the  air  may  be 
entirely  excluded.  If  kept  in  a  cool 
dry  place,  it  may  be  preserved  for 
a  long  time  ;  but  if  it  be  badly  cork- 
ed, and  kept  in  a  damp  place,  it 
will  soon  spoil.  Examine  it  from 
time  to  time,  by  placing  a  strong 
light  behind  the  neck  of  the  bottle  ; 
and  if  any  pellicle  appears  about  it, 
it  must  be  boiled  up  again  with  a 
few  peppercorns.  No  more  spice 
is  required  than  what  is  necessary 
to  feed  the  ketchup,  and  keep  it  from 
fermenting.  Brandy  is  the  best  pre- 
servative to  all  preparations  of  this 
kind. 

KEEPING  PROVISIONS.  When 

articles  of  food  are  procured,  the 

next  thing  to  be  considered  is,  how 

they  may  be  best  preserv'ed,  in  or- 

180 


der  to  their  being  dressed.  More 
waste  is  oftentimes  occasioned  by 
the  want  of  judgment  or  of  neces- 
sary care  in  this  particular,  than  by 
any  other  means  ;  and  what  was 
procured  with  expense  and  difficulty 
is  rendered  unwholesome,  or  given 
to  the  dogs.  Very  few  houses  have 
a  proper  place  to  keep  provisions 
in  ;  the  best  substitute  is  a  hanging- 
safe,  suspended  in  an  airy  situation. 
A  well-ventilated  larder,  dry  and 
shady,  would  be  better  for  meat  and 
poultry,  which  require  to  be  kept  a 
proper  time  to  be  ripe  and  tender. 
The  most  consummate  skill  in  culi- 
nary matters,  will  not  compensate 
the  want  of  attention  to  this  par- 
ticular. Though  animal  food  should 
be  hung  up  in  the  open  air,  till  its 
fibres  have  lost  some  degree  of  their 
toughness ;  yet  if  kept  till  it  loses 
its  natural  sweetness,  it  is  as  detri- 
mental to  health  as  it  is  disagreeable 
to  the  taste  and  smell.  As  soon 
therefore  as  you  can  detect  the 
slightest  trace  of  putrescence,  it  has 
reached  its  highest  degree  of  ten- 
derness, and  should  be  dressed  im- 
mediately. Much  of  course  will  de- 
pend on  the  state  of  the  atmosphere : 
if  it  be  warm  and  humid,  care  must 
be  taken  to  dry  the  meat  with  a 
cloth,  night  and  morning,  to  keep  it 
from  damp  and  mustiness.  During 
the  sultry  months  of  summer,  it  is 
difficult  to  procure  meat  that  is  not 
either  tough  or  tainted.  It  should 
therefore  be  well  examined  when 
it  comes  in  ;  and  if  flies  have  touch- 
ed it,  the  part  must  be  cut  off,  and 
then  well  washed.  Meat  that  is  to 
be  salted  should  lie  an  hour  in  cold 
water,  rubbing  well  any  part  likely 
to  have  been  fly-blown.  When  taken 
out  of  the  water,  wipe  it  quite  dry, 
then  rub  it  thoroughly  with  salt,  and 
throw  a  handful  over  it  besides. 
Turn  it  every  day,  and  rub  in  the 
pickle,  which  will  make  it  ready  for 
the  table  in  three  or  four  days.  If 
to  be  very  much  corned,  wrap  it  in  a 
well-floured  cloth,  after  rubbing  it 


K  IT 


KIT 


with  salt.  This  last  method  will  corn 
fresh  beef  fit  for  the  table  the  day 
it  comes  in,  but  it  must  be  put  into 
the  pot  when  the  water  boils.  If  the 
weather  permit,  meat  eats  much 
better  for  hanging  two  or  three  days 
before  it  is  salted.  In  very  cold 
weather,  meat  and  vegetables  touch- 
ed by  the  frost  should  be  brought 
into  the  kitchen  early  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  soaked  in  cold  water.  Put- 
ting them  into  hot  water,  or  near  the 
lire,  till  thawed,  makes  it  impossible 
for  any  heat  to  dress  them  properly 
afterwards.  In  loins  of  meat,  the 
long  pipe  that  runs  by  the  bone 
should  be  taken  out,  as  it  is  apt  to 
taint ;  as  also  the  kernels  of  beef. 
Rumps  and  edgebones  of  beef  when 
bruised,  should  not  be  purchased. 
To  preserve  venison,  wash  it  well 
with  milk  and  water,  then  dry  it 
with  clean  cloths  till  not  the  least 
damp  remains,  and  dust  it  all  over 
with  pounded  ginger,  which  will 
protect  it  against  the  fly.  By  thus 
managing  and  watching,  it  will  hang 
a  fortnight.  When  to  be  used,  wash  it 
with  a  little  lukewarm  water,  and  dry 
it.  Pepper  is  likewise  good  to  keep  it. 

KIDNEY  PUDDING.  Split  and 
soak  the  kidney,  and  season  it. 
Make  a  paste  of  suet,  flour,  and 
milk  ;  roll  it,  and  line  a  bason  with 
some  of  it.  Put  in  the  kidney,  cover 
the  paste  over,  and  pinch  it  round 
the  edge.  Tie  up  the  bason  in  a  cloth, 
and  boil  it  a  considerable  time.  A 
steak  pudding  is  made  in  the  same 
way. 

KITCHEN  ECONOMY.  Many 
articles  thrown  away,  or  suff'ered  to 
be  wasted  in  the  kitchen,  might  by 
proper  management  be  turned  to  a 
good  account.  The  shank  bones  of 
mutton,  so  little  esteemed  in  general, 
would  be  found  to  give  richness  to 
soups  or  gravies,  if  well  soaked  and 
brushed,  before  they  are  added  to 
the  boiling.  They  are  also  particu- 
larly nourishing  for  sick  persons. 
Roast  beef-bones,  or  shank  bones  of 
ham,    make    fine   peas-soup ;    and 


should  be  boiled  with  the  peas  the 
day  before  the  soup  is  to  be  eaten, 
that  the  fat  may  be  taken  ofi*.  The 
liquor  in  which  meat  has  been  boiled 
makes  an  excellent  soup  for  the 
poor,  by  adding  to  it  vegetables,  oat- 
meal, or  peas.  When  whites  of  eggs 
are  used  for  jelly,  or  other  purposes, 
a  pudding  or  a  custard  should  be 
made  to  employ  the  yolks.  If  not 
immediately  wanted,  they  should 
be  beat  up  with  a  little  water,  and 
put  in  a  cool  place,  or  they  will  soon 
harden,  and  become  useless.  It  is 
a  great  mistake  to  imagine  that  the 
whites  of  eggs  make  cakes  and  pud- 
dings heavy :  on  the  contrary,  if 
beaten  long  and  separately,  they 
contribute  greatly  to  give  lightness. 
They  are  also  an  advantage  to  paste, 
and  make  a  pretty  dish  beaten  with 
fruit,  to  set  in  cream.  All  things 
likely  to  be  wanted  should  be  in 
readiness  ;  sugars  of  diff"erent  sorts, 
currants  washed,  picked,  and  per- 
fectly dry ;  spices  pounded,  and 
kept  in  very  small  bottles  closely 
corked,  but  not  more  than  are  likely 
to  be  used  in  the  course  of  a  month. 
Much  waste  may  be  prevented  by 
keeping  every  article  in  the  place 
best  suited  to  it.  Vegetables  will 
keep  best  on  a  stone  floor,  if  the 
air  be  excluded.  Meat  in  a  cold 
dry  place.  Salt,  sugar,  and  sweet- 
meats require  to  be  kept  dry  ;  can- 
dles cold,  but  not  damp.  Dried 
meats  and  hams  the  same.  Rice, 
and  all  sorts  of  seeds  for  puddings 
and  saloops,  should  be  close  covered 
to  preserve  from  insects ;  but  that 
will  not  prevent  it,  if  long  kept. 

KITCHEN  GARDEN.  Here  a 
little  attention  will  be  requisite  every 
month  in  the  year,  as  no  garden  can 
be  long  neglected,  w  ithout  producing 
weeds  which  exhaust  the  soil,  as 
well  as  give  a  very  slovenly  appear- 
ance.— January.  Throw  up  a  heap 
of  new  dung  to  heat,  that  it  may  be 
ready  to  make  hotbeds  for  early  cu- 
cumbers, and  raising  of  annuals  for 
the  flower  garden.  Dig  up  the 
181 


^IT 


KIT 


ground  that  is  to  be  sown  with  the 
spring  crops,  that  it  may  lie  and 
mellow.  Nurse  the  cauliflower  plants 
kept  under  glasses,  carefully  shut 
out  the  frost,  but  in  the  middle  of 
milder  days  let  in  a  little  air.  Pick 
up  the  dead  leaves,  and  gather  up 
the  mould  about  the  stalks.  Make 
a  slight  hotbed  in  the  open  ground 
for  young  sallads,  and  place  hoops 
over  it,  that  it  may  be  covered  m 
very  cold  weather.  Sow  a  few  beans 
and  peas,  and  seek  and  destroy 
snails  and  other  vermin. — Febru- 
ary. Dig  and  level  beds  for  sow- 
ing radishes,  onions,  carrots,  par- 
snips, and  Dutch  lettuce.  Leeks 
and  spinage  should  also  be  sown  in 
this  month,  likewise  beets,  celery, 
sorrel,  and  marigolds,  with  any  other 
of  the  hardy  kinds.  The  best  way 
with  beans  and  peas,  is  to  sow  a 
new  crop  every  fortnight,  that  if  one 
succeeds  and  another  fails,  as  will 
often  be  the  case,  there  still  may  be 
a  constant  supply  of  these  useful 
articles  for  the  table.  Plant  kidney 
beans  upon  a  hotbed  for  an  early 
crop  ;  the  dwarf,  the  white  and 
Battersea  beans,  are  the  best  sorts. 
They  must  have  air  in  the  middle  of 
mild  days  when  they  are  up,  and 
once  in  two  days  they  should  be 
gently  watered.  Transplant  cab- 
bages, plant  out  Silesia  and  Cos  let- 
tuce from  the  beds  where  they  grew 
in  winter,  and  plant  potatoes  and  Je- 
rusalem artichokes. — March.  Sow 
more  carrots,  and  also  some  large 
peas,  rouncevals  and  gray.  In  bet- 
ter ground  sow  cabbages,  savoys, 
and  parsnips  for  a  second  crop  ; 
and  towards  the  end  of  the  month, 
put  in  a  larger  quantity  of  peas  and 
beans.  Sow  parsley,  and  plant  mint. 
Sow  Cos  and  imperial  lettuce,  and 
transplant  the  finer  kinds.  In  the 
beginning  of  the  month,  sow  Dutch 
parsley  for  the  roots.  The  last  week 
take  advantage  of  the  time,  or  the 
dry  days,  to  make  beds  for  aspara- 
gus. Clear  up  the  artichoke  roots, 
slip  off  the  weakest,  and  plant  them 
182 


out  for  a  new  crop,  leaving  four  on 
each  good  root  to  bear,  and  on  such 
as  are  weaker  two.  Dig  up  a  warm 
border,  and  sow  some  French  beans; 
let  them  have  a  dry  soil,  and  ive 
them  no  water  till  they  appear  above 
ground. — April.  On  a  dry  warm 
border,  plant  a  large  crop  of  French 
beans.  Plant  cuttings  of  sage,  and 
other  aromatics.  Sow  marrowfat 
peas,  and  plant  some  beans  for  a 
late  crop.  Sow  thyme,  sweet  mar- 
joram, and  savoury.  Sow  young 
sallads  once  in  ten  days,  and  some 
Cos  and  Silesia  lettuces.  The  seeds 
of  all  kinds  being  now  in  the  ground, 
look  to  the  growing  crops,  clear 
away  the  weeds  every  where  among 
them,  dig  up  the  earth  between  the 
rows  of  beans,  peas,  and  all  other 
kinds  that  are  distantly  planted. 
This  gives  them  a  strong  growth, 
and  brings  them  much  sooner  to 
perfection  than  can  be  done  in  any 
other  way.  Draw  up  the  mould  to 
the  stalks  of  the  cabbage  and  cauli- 
flower plants,  and  in  cold  nights 
cover  the  glasses  over  the  early  cu- 
cumbers and  melons. — May.  Once 
in  two  days  water  the  peas,  beans, 
and  other  large  growing  plants.  De- 
stroy the  weeds  in  all  parts  of  the 
ground,  dig  up  the  earth  between 
the  rows,  and  about  the  stems  of  all 
large  kinds.  Sow  small  sallads  once 
in  two  days,  as  in  the  fomier  mouth : 
at  the  same  time  choose  a  warm 
border,  and  sow  some  purslain.  Sow 
also  some  endive,  plant  peas  and 
beans  for  a  large  crop,  and  French 
beans  to  succeed  the  others.  The 
principal  object  with  these  kinds  of 
vegetables,  is  to  have  them  fresh 
and  young  throughout  the  season. 
Choose  a  moist  day,  and  an  hour 
before  sunset  plant  out  some  savoys, 
cabbages,  and  red  cabbages.  Draw 
the  earth  carefully  up  to  their  stems, 
and  give  them  a  few  gentle  waterings. 
— June.  Transplant  the  cauliflow- 
ers sown  in  May,  give  them  a  rich 
^ed,  and  frequent  waterings.  Plant 
out  thyme,  and  other  savoury  herbs 


K  IT 


KIT 


sown  before,  and  in  the  same  manner 
shade  and  water  them.  Take  ad- 
vantage of  cloudy  weather  to  sow 
turnips  ;  and  if  there  be  no  showers, 
water  the  ground  once  in  two  days. 
Sow  brocoli  upon  a  rich  warm  bor- 
der, and  plant  out  celery,  for  blanch- 
ing. This  must  be  planted  in  trench- 
es a  foot  and  a  half  deep,  and  the 
plants  must  be  set  half  a  foot  asun- 
der in  the  rows.  Endive  should  also 
be  planted  out  for  blanching,  but 
the  plants  should  be  set  fifteen 
inches  asunder,  and  at  the  same 
time  some  endive  seed  should  be 
sown  for  a  second  crop.  Pick  up 
snails,  and  in  the  damp  evenings 
kill  the  naked  slugs. — July.  Sow  a 
crop  of  French  beans  to  come  in 
late,  when  they  will  be  very  accept- 
able. Clear  all  the  ground  from 
weeds,  dig  between  the  rows  of  beans 
and  peas,  hoe  the  ground  about 
the  artichokes,  and  every  thing  of 
the  cabbage  kind.  Water  the  crops 
in  dry  weather,  and  the  cucumbers 
more  freely.  Watch  the  melons  as 
they  ripen,  but  give  them  very  little 
water.  Clear  away  the  stalks  of 
beans  and  peas  that  have  done  bear- 
ing. Spinach  seed  will  now  be 
ready  for  gathering,  as  also  that  of 
the  Welch  onion,  and  some  others  : 
take  them  carefully  off,  and  dry 
them  in  the  shade.  Take  up  large 
onions,  and  spread  them  upon  mats 
to  dry  for  the  winter. — August. 
Spinach  and  onions  should  be  sowed 
on  rich  borders,  prepared  for  that 
purpose.  These  two  crops  will  live 
through  the  winter,  unless  very  se- 
vere, and  be  valuable  in  the  spring. 
The  second  week  in  this  month  sow 
cabbage  seed  of  the  early  kind,  and 
in  the  third  week  sow  cauliflower 
seed.  This  will  provide  plants  to 
be  nursed  up  under  bell  glasses  in 
the  winter.  Some  of  these  may  also 
be  planted  in  the  open  ground  in  a 
well  defended  situation.  The  last 
week  of  this  month  sow  another 
crop,  to  supply  the  place  of  these  in 
case  of  accidents  ;  for  if  the  season 


be  very  severe,  they  may  be  lost ; 
and  if  very  mild,  they  will  run  to 
seed  in  the  spring.  These  last  crops 
must  be  defended  by  a  hotbed  frame, 
and  they  will  stand  ouf  and  sdpply 
deficiencies.  Sow  cabbage  lettuces, 
and  the  brown  Dutch  kinds,  in  a 
warm  and  well  sheltered  border. 
Take  up  garlic,  and  spread  it  on  a 
mat  to  harden.  In  the  same  manner 
take  up  onions  and  rocambole,  and 
shalots  at  the  latter  end  of  the 
month. — September.  Sow  vari- 
ous kinds  of  lettuces,  Silesia,  Cos, 
and  Dutch,  and  when  they  come  up, 
shelter  them  carefully.  The  com- 
mon practice  is  to  keep  them  under 
hand-glasses,  but  they  will  thrive 
better  under  a  reed  fence,  placed 
sloping  over  them.  Make  up  fresh 
warm  beds  with  the  dung  that  has 
lain  a  month  in  the  heap.  Plant 
the  spaAvn  in  these  beds,  Upon  pas- 
ture mould,  and  raise  the  top  of  the 
bed  to  a  ridge,  to  throw  off  the  wet. 
Look  to  the  turnip  beds  and  thin 
them,  leaving  the  plants  six  inches 
apart  from  each  other.  Weed  the 
spinach,  onions,  and  other  new- sown 
plants.  Earth  up  the  celery,  and 
sow  young  sallads  upon  warm  and 
well- sheltered  bordei;^.  Clean  as- 
paragus beds,  cut  down  the  stalks, 
pare  off  the  earth  from  the  surfa^ 
of  the  alleys,  throw  it  upon  the  beds 
half  an  inch  thick,  and  sprinkle  o/er 
it  a  little  dung  from  an  old  mebn 
bed.  Dig  up  the  ground  where 
summer  crops  have  ripened,  and  lay 
it  in  ridges  for  the  winter.  The  ridges 
should  be  disposed  east  and  west, 
and  turned  once  in  two  months,  td^ 
give  them  the  advantage  of  a  fallow. 
Sow  some  beans  and  peas  on  warm 
and  well-sheltered  borders,  to  stand 
out  the  winter. — October.  Set 
out  cauliflower  plants,  where  they 
can  be  sheltered  ;  and  if  glasses 
are  used,  put  two  under  each,  for 
fear  of  one  failing.  Sow  another 
crop  of  peas,  and  plant  more  beans  ; 
choose  a  dry  spot  for  them,  where 
they  can  be  sheltered  from  the 
183 


K  1  T 


K  I  'I' 


winter's  cold.  Transplant  the  let- 
tuces sown  last  month,  where  they 
can  be  defended  by  a  reed  fence,  or 
under  a  wall.  Transplant  cabbage 
plants  and  coleworts,  where  they 
are  to  remain.  Take  great  care  of 
the  cauliflower  plants  sown  early  in 
summer  ;  and  as  they  now  begin  to 
show  their  heads,  break  in  the  leaves 
upon  them  to  keep  off"  the  sun  and 
rain  ;  it  will  both  harden  and  whiten 
them. — November.  Weed  the 
crops  of  spinach,  and  others  that 
were  sown  late,  or  the  wild  growth 
will  smother  and  starve  the  crop. 
Dig  up  a  border  under  a  warm  wall, 
and  sow  some  carrots  for  spring ; 
sow  radishes  in  a  similar  situation, 
and  let  the  ground  be  dug  deep  for 
both.  Turn  the  mould  that  was 
trenched  and  laid  up  for  fallowing; 
this  will  destroy  the  weeds,  and  en- 
rich the  soil  by  exposing  it  to  the 
air.  Prepare  some  hotbeds  for  sa- 
lading,  cover  them  five  inches  with 
mould,  and  sow  them  with  lettuces, 
mustard,  rape,  cresses,  and  radish. 
Plant  another  crop  of  beans,  and  sow 
more  peas  for  a  succession.  Trench 
the  ground  between  the  artichokes, 
and  throw  a  thick  ridge  of  earth 
over  the  roots  :  this  will  preserve 
them  from  the  frost,  and  prevent 
their  shooting  at  an  improper  time. 
Make  a  hotbed  for  asparagus.  Take 
up  carrots  and  parsnips,  and  put 
them  in  sand  to  be  ready  for  use. 
Give  air  occasionally  to  the  plants 
under  hand-glasses  and  on  hotbeds, 
or  they  will  suffer  as  much  for  want 
of  it,  as  they  would  have  done  by 
gH^an  exposure  to  the  cold. — Decem- 
ber. Plant  cabbages  and  savoys 
for  seed  :  this  requires  to  be  done 
carefully.  Dig  up  a  dry  border, 
and  break  the  mould  well ;  then  take  > 
up  some  of  the  stoutest  cabbage  and 
savoy  plants,  hang  them  up  by  the 
stalks  four  or  five  days,  and  after- 
wards plant  them  half  way  up  the 
stalks  into  the  ground.  Draw  up 
a  good  quantity  of  mould  about  the 
stalk  that  is  above  ground,  make  it 
184 


into  a  kind  of  hill  round  each,  and 
leave  them  to  nature.  Sow  another 
crop  of  peas,  and  plant  some  more 
beans,  to  take  their  chance  for  suc- 
ceeding the  other.  Make  another 
hotbed  for  asparagus,  to  yield  a 
supply  when  the  former  is  exhaust- 
ed. Continue  to  earth  up  celery, 
and  cover  some  endive  with  a  good 
quantity  of  peas  straw,  as  it  is  grow- 
ing, that  it  may  be  taken  up  when 
wanted,  and  be  preserved  from  the 
winter's  frost. 

KITCHEN  PEPPER.  Mix  in  the 
finest  powder,  one  ounce  of  ginger, 
half  an  ounce  each  of  cinnamon, 
black  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  Jamaica 
pepper ;  ten  cloves,  and  six  ounces 
of  salt.  Keep  it  in  a  bottle,  and  it 
will  be  found  an  agreeable  addition 
to  any  brown  sauces  or  soups.  Spice 
in  powder,  kept  in  small  bottles 
close  stopped,  goes  much  farther 
than  when  used  whole.  It  must  be 
dried  before  it  is  pounded,  and 
should  be  done  in  quantities  that 
may  be  used  in  three  or  four  months. 
Nutmeg  need  not  be  done,  but  the 
others  should  be  kept  in  separate 
bottles,  with  a  label  on  each. 

KITCHEN  UTENSILS.  Conti- 
nual attention  must  be  paid  to  the 
condition  of  the  boilers,  saucepans, 
stewpans,  and  other  kitchen  requi- 
sites, which  ought  to  be  examined 
every  time  they  are  used.  Their 
covers  also  must  be  kept  perfectly 
clean,  and  well  tinned.  Stewpans 
in  particular  should  be  cleaned,  not 
only  on  the  inside,  but  about  a  cou- 
ple of  inches  on  the  outside,  or  the 
broths  and  soups  will  look  green  and 
dirty,  and  taste  bitter  and  poisonous. 
Not  only  health  but  even  life  de- 
pends on  the  perfectly  clean  and 
wholesome  state  of  culinary  .uten- 
sils. If  the  tinning  of  a  pan  hap 
pens  to  be  scorched  or  blistered,  it 
is  best  to  send  it  directly  to  be  re- 
paired, to  prevent  any  possible  dan- 
ger arising  from  the  solution  of 'the 
metal.  Stewpans  and  soup  pots 
should  be  made  with  thick  round 


KIT 


KNU 


bottoms,  similar  to  those  of  copper 
saucepans;  they  will  then  wear 
twice  as  long,  and  may  be  cleaned 
with  half  the  trouble.  The  covers 
should  be  made  to  fit  as  close  as 
possible,  that  the  broth  or  soup  may 
not  waste  by  evaporation.  They 
are  good  for  nothing,  unless  they  fit 
tight  enough  to  keep  the  steam  in, 
and  the  smoke  out.  Stewpans  and 
saucepans  should  always  be  bright 
on  the  upper  rim,  where  the  fire  does 
not  burn  them  ;  but  it  is  not  neces- 
sary to  scour  them  all  over,  which 
would  wear  out  the  vessels.  Soup 
pots  and  kettles  should  be  washed 
immediately  after  being  used,  and 
carefully  dried  by  the  fire,  before 
they  are  put  by.  They  must  also 
be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  or  damp  and 
rust  will  soon  destroy  them.  Cop- 
per utensils  should  never  be  used  in 
the  kitchen ;  or  if  they  be,  the  ut- 
most care  should  be  taken  not  to 
let  the  tin  be  rubbed  off,  and  to  have 
them  fresh  done  when  the  least  de- 
fect appears.  Neither  soup  nor 
gravy  should  at  any  time  be  suffered 
to  remain  in  them  longer  than  is  ab- 
solutely necessary  for  the  purposes 
of  cookery,  as  the  fat  and  acid  em- 
ployed in  the  operation,  are  capable 
of  dissolving  the  metal,  and  so  of 
poisoning  what  is  intended  to  be 
eaten.  Stone  and  earthen  vessels 
should  be  provided  for  soups  and 
gravies  intended  to  be  set  by,  as 
likewise  plenty  of  common  dishes, 
that  the  table-set  may  not  be  used 
for  such  purposes.  Vegetables  soon 
turn  sour,  and  corrode  metals  and 
glazed  red  ware,  by  which  a  strong 
poison  is  produced.  Vinegar,  by 
its  acidity,  does  the  same,  the  glazing 
being  of  lead  or  arsenic.  Care 
should  be  taken  of  sieves,  jelly  bags, 
and  tapes  for  collared  articles,  to 
have  them  well  scalded  and  kept 
dry,  or  they  will  impart  an  unplea- 
sant flavour  when  next  used.  Stew- 
pans  especially,  should  never  be 
used  without  first  washing  them  out 
with  boiling  water,  and  rubbing  them 


well  with  a  dry  cloth  and  a  little 
bran,  to  clean  them  from  grease  and 
sand,  or  any  bad  smell  they  may 
have  contracted  since  they  were 
last  used.  In  short,  cleanlinesa  is 
the  cardinal  virtue  of  the  kitchen  ; 
and  next  to  this,  economy. 

KNIFE  BOARD.  Common  knife 
boards  with  brick  dust,-soon  wear 
out  the  knives  that  are  sharpened 
upon  them.  To  avoid  this,  cover 
the  board  with  thick  buff  leather, 
and  spread  over  it  a  thin  paste  of 
crocus  martis,  with  a  little  emery 
finely  powdered,  and  mixed  up  with 
lard  or  sweet  oil.  This  will  give  a 
superior  edge  and  polish  to  the  knives, 
and  make  them  wear  much  longer 
than  in  the  usual  way  of  cleaning 
them. 

KNUCKLE  OF  VEAL.  As  few 
persons  are  fond  of  boiled  veal,  it 
may  be  well  to  cut  the  knuckle  small, 
and  take  ofi'  some  cutlets  or  collops 
before  it  is  dressed ;  but  as  the 
knuckle  will  keep  longer  than  the 
fillet,  it  is  best  not  to  cut  off  the 
slices  till  wanted.  Break  the  bones 
to  make  it  take  less  room,  wash  the 
joint  well,  and  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  three  onions,  ao^^blade  or 
two  of  mace,  and  a  few  pepper- 
corns. Cover  it  with  water,  and 
simmer  it  till  quite  done.  In  the 
mean  time  some  macaroni  should  be 
boiled  with  it  if  approved,  or  rice, 
or  a  little  rice  flour,  to  give  it  a 
small  degree  of  thickness  ;  but  avoid 
putting  in  too  much.  Before  it  is 
served,  add  half  a  pint  of  milk  and 
cream,  and  let  it  go  to  table  either 
with  or  without  the  meat. — A  knuckle 
of  veal  may  also  be  fried  with  sliced 
onion  and  butter,  to  a  good  brown. 
Prepare  some  peas,  lettuce,  onion, 
and  a  cucumber  or  two,  stewed  in  a 
small  quantity  of  water  for  an  hour. 
Add  these  to  the  veal,  and  stew  it 
till  the  meat  is  tender  enough  to  eat, 
but  not  overdone.  Put  in  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  shred  mint,  and 
serve  all  together. 


Bb 


185 


LAM 


LAM 


Lamb,  in  purchasing  this  meat, 
observe  particularly  the  neck  of  a 
fore-quarter.  If  the  vein  is  bluish, 
it  is  fresh  :  if  it  has  a  green  or  yel- 
low cast,  it  is  stale.  In  the  hind- 
quarter,  if  there  is  a  faint  smell  un- 
der the  kidney,  and  the  knuckle  is 
limp,  the  meat  is  stale.  If  the  eyes 
are  sunk,  the  head  is  not  fresh. 
Grass  lamb  comes  into  season  in 
April  or  May,  and  continues  till 
August.  House  lamb  may  be  had 
in  large  towns  almost  all  the  year, 
but  it  is  in  highest  perfection  in  De- 
cember and  January. 

LAMB  CHOPS.  Cut  up  a  neck 
or  loin,  rub  the  chops  with  egg,  and 
sprinkle  them  over  with  grated  bread, 
mixed  with  a  little  parsley,  thyme, 
marjoram,  and  lemon  peel,  chopped 
fine.  Fry  them  in  butter  till  they 
are  of  a  light  brown,  put  them  in  a 
warm  dish,  garnished  with  crisped 
parsley.  Or  make  a  gravy  in  the 
pan  with  a  little  water,  and  butter 
roiled  in  flour,  and  pour  it  over 
them. 

LAMB  CUTLETS.  Cut  some 
steaks  from  the  loin,  and  fry  them. 
Stew  some  spinach,  put  it  into  a  dish, 
and  lay  the  cutlets  round  it. 

LAMB'S  FRY.  Serve  it  fried  of 
a  beautiful  colour,  and  with  a  good 
deal  of  dried  or  fried  parsley  over  it. 

LAMB'S  HEAD.  A  house-lamb's 
head  is  the  best ;  but  any  other  may 
be  made  white  by  soaking  it  in  cold 
water.  Boil  the  head  separately 
till  it  is  very  tender.  Have  ready 
the  liver  and  lights  three  parts  boil- 
ed and  cut  small :  stew  them  in  a 
little  of  the  water  in  which  they 
were  boiled,  season  and  thicken 
with  flour  and  butter,  and  serve  the 
mince  round  the  head. 

LAMB  PIE.  Make  it  of  the  loin, 
neck,  or  breast ;  the  breast  of  house- 
lamb  especially,  is  very  delicate  and 
fine.  It  should  be  lightly  seasoned 
186 


with  pepper  and  salt,  the  bone  taken 
out,  but  not  the  gristle.  A  small 
quantity  of  jelly  gravy  is  to  be  put 
in  hot,  but  the  pie  should  not  be  cut 
till  cold.  Put  in  two  spoonfuls  of 
water  before  baking.  Grass  lamb 
makes  an  excellent  pie,  and  should 
only  be  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Put  in  two  spoonfuls  of  water 
before  baking,  and  as  much  gravy 
when  it  comes  from  the  oven.  It 
may  generally  be  remarked,  that 
meat  pies  being  fat,  it  is  best  to  let 
out  the  gravy  on  one  side,  and  put 
it  in  again  by  a  funnel,  at  the  cen- 
tre, when  a  little  may  be  added. 

LAMB  STEAKS.  Quarter  some 
cucumbers,  and  lay  them  into  a  deep 
dish  ;  sprinkle  them  with  calt,  and 
pour  vinegar  over  them.  Fry  the 
steaks  of  a  fine  brown,  and  put  them 
into  a  stewpan ;  drain  the  cucum- 
bers, and  put  them  over  the  steaks. 
Add  some  sliced  onions,  pepper  and 
salt ;  pour  hot  water  or  weak  broth 
on  them,  and  stew  and  skim  them 
well. 

LAMB  STEAKS  BROWN.  Sea- 
son some  house-lamb  steaks  with 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  grated  lemon 
peel,  and  chopped  parsley  :  but  dip 
them  first  into  egg,  and  fry  them 
quick.  Thicken  some  good  gravy 
with  a  little  flour  and  butter,  and 
add  to  it  a  spoonful  of  port  wine, 
and  some  oysters.  Boil  up  the  li- 
quor, put  in  the  steaks  warm,  and 
serve  them  up  hot.  Palates,  balls, 
or  eggs,  may  be  added,  if  approved. 

LAMB  STEAKS  WHITE.  Steaks 
of  house-lamb  should  be  stewed  in 
milk  and  water  till  very  tender,  with 
a  bit  of  lemon  peel,  a  little  salt, 
mace,  and  pepper.  Have  ready  some 
veal  gravy,  and  put  the  steaks  into 
it ;  mix  some  mushroom  powder,  a 
cup  of  cream,  and  a  dust  of  flour ; 
shake  the  steaks  in  this  liquor,  stir 
it,  and  make  it  quite  hot.     Just  l)e- 


LAM 


LAM 


fore  taking  up  the  steaks,  put  in  a 
few  white  mushrooms.  When  poul- 
try is  very  dear,  this  dish  will  be 
found  a  good  substitute. 

LAMBS  SWEETBREADS. 
Blanch  them,  and  put  them  a  little 
while  into  cold  water.  Stew  them 
with  a  ladleful  of  broth,  some  pep- 
per and  salt,  a  few  small  onions,  and 
a  blade  of  mace.  Stir  in  a  bit  of 
butter  and  flour,  and  stew  them  half 
an  hour.  Prepare  two  or  three  eggs 
well  beaten  in  cream,  with  a  little 
minced  parsley,  and  a  dust  of  grated 
nutmeg.  Add  a  few  tops  of  boiled 
asparagus,  stir  it  well  over  the  lire, 
but  let  it  not  boil  after  the  cream  is 
in,  and  take  great  care  that  it  does 
not  curdle.  Young  French  beans  or 
peas  may  be  added,  but  should  first 
be  boiled  of  a  beautiful  colour. 

LAMBSTONES  FRICASSEED. 
Skin  and  wash,  dry  and  flour  them  ; 
then  fry  them  of  a  beautiful  brown 
in  hog's  lard.  Lay  them  on  a  sieve 
before  the  fire,  till  the  following 
sauce  is  prepared.  Thicken  nearly 
half  a  pint  of  veal  gravy  with  flour 
and  butter,  and  then  add  to  it  a 
slice  of  lemon,  a  large  spoonful  of 
mushroom  ketchup,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  lemon  pickle,  a  taste  of  nutmeg, 
and  the  yolk  of  an  eg^  well  beaten 
in  two  large  spoonfuls  of  thick 
cream.  Put  this  over  the  fire,  stir 
it  well  till  it  is  hot,  and  looks  white  ; 
but  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  cur- 
dle. Then  put  in  the  fry,  shake  it 
about  near  the  fire  for  a  minute  or 
two,  and  serve  it  in  a  very  hot  dish 
and  cover. — A  fricassee  of  lamb- 
stones  and  sweetbreads  may  be  pre- 
pared another  way.  Have  ready 
some  lambstones  blanched,  parboil- 
ed, and  sliced.  Flour  two  or  three 
sweetbreads  :  if  very  thick,  cut  them 
in  two.  Fry  all  together,  with  a 
few  large  oysters,  of  a  fine  yellow 
brown.  Pour  off  the  butter,  add  a 
pint  of  good  gravy,  some  asparagus 
tops  about  an  inch  long,  a  little 
nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt,  two  sha- 
lots  shred  fine,  and  a  glass  of  white 


wine.  Simmer  them  ten  minutes, 
put  a  little  of  the  gravy  to  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and  mix 
the  whole  together  by  degrees. 
Turn  the  gravy  back  into  the  pan, 
stir  it  till  of  a  fine  thickness  without 
boiling,  and  garnish  with  lemon. 

LAMENESS.  Much  lameness, 
as  well  as  deformity,  might  certainly 
be  prevented,  if  stricter  attention 
were  paid  to  the  early  treatment  of 
children.  Weakness  of  the  hips, 
accompanied  with  a  lameness  of 
both  sides  of  the  body,  is  frequently 
occasioned  by  inducing  them  to 
walk  without  any  assistance,  before 
they  have  strength  suflicient  to  sup- 
port themselves.  Such  debility  may 
in  some  measure  be  counteracted, 
by  tying  a  girdle  round  the  waist, 
and  bracing  up  the  hips  ;  but  it  re- 
quires to  be  attended  to  at  an  early 
period,  or  the  infirmity  will  con- 
tinue for  life.  It  will  also  be  ad- 
visable to  bathe  such  weak  limbs  in 
cold  water,  or  astringent  decoc- 
tions, for  several  months.  If  the 
lameness  arise  from  contraction,, 
rather  than  from  weakness,  the  best 
means  will  be  frequent  rubbing  of 
the  part  affected.  If  this  be  not 
sufiicient,  beat  up  the  yolk  of  a  new 
laid  egg,  mix  it  well  with  three 
ounces  of  water,  and  rub  it  gently 
on  the  part.  Perseverance  in  the 
use  of  this  simple  remedy,  has  been 
snccessful  in  a  great  number  of  in- 
stances. 

LAMPREY.  To  stew  lamprey 
as  at  Worcester,  clean  the  fish  care- 
fully, and  remove  the  cartilage  which 
runs  down  the  back.  Season  with 
a  small  quantity  of  cloves,  mace, 
nutmeg,  pepper,  and  allspice.  Put 
it  into  a  small  stewpot,  with  beef 
gravy,  port,  and  sherry.  Cover  it 
close,  stew  it  till  tender,  take  out 
the  lamprey,  and  keep  it  hot.  Boil 
up  the  liquor  with  two  or  three  an- 
chovies chopped,  and  some  butter 
rolled  in  flour.  Strain  the  gravy 
through  a  sieve,  add  some  lemon 
juice,    and    ready-made    mustard. 


LEA 


LEE 


Serve  with  sippets  of  bread  and 
horseradish.  When  there  is  spawn, 
itniii3t  be  fried  and  laid  round. 
Eels  done  the  same  way,  are  a  good 
deal  like  the  lamprey. 

LARKS.  To  dress  larks  and 
other  small  birds,  draw  and  spit 
them  on  a  bird  spit.  Tie  this  on 
another  spit,  and  roast  them.  Baste 
gently  with  butter,  and  strew  bread 
crumbs  upon  them  till  half  done. 
Brown  them  in  dressing,  and  serve 
with  bread  crumbs  round. 

LAVENDER  WATER.  To  a  pint 
of  highly  rectified  spirits  of  wine, 
add  an  ounce  of  the  essential  oil  of 
lavender,  and  two  drams  of  the  es- 
sence of  ambergris.  Put  the  whole 
into  a  quart  bottle,  shake  it  fre- 
quently, and  decant  it  into  small 
bottles  for  use. 

LAVER.  This  is  a  plant  that 
grows  on  the  rocks  near  the  sea  in 
the  west  of  England,  and  is  sent  in 
pots  prepared  for  eating.  Place 
some  of  it  on  a  dish  over  the  lamp, 
with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  the  squeeze 
of  a  Seville  orange.  Stir  it  till  it  is 
hot.  It  is  eaten  with  roast  meat, 
and  tends  to  sweeten  the  blood.  It 
is  seldom  liked  at  first,  but  habit 
renders  it  highly  agreeable. 

LEAF  IMPRESSIONS.  To  take 
impressions  of  leaves  and  plants, 
oil  a  sheet  of  fine  paper,  dry  it  in 
the  sun,  and  rub  oflfthe  superfluous 
moisture  with  another  piece  of  pa- 
per. After  the  oil  is  pretty  well 
dried  in,  black  the  sheet  by  passing 
it  over  a  lighted  lamp  or  candle. 
Lay  the  leaf  or  plant  on  the  black 
surface,  with  a  small  piece  of  paper 
over  it,  and  rub  it  carefully  till  the 
leaf  is  thoroughly  coloured.  Then 
take  it  up  undisturbed,  lay  it  on  the 
book  or  paper  which  is  to  receive 
the  impression,  cover  it  with  a  piece 
of  blotting  paper,  and  rub  it  on  the 
back  a  short  time  with  the  finger  as 
before.  Impressions  of  the  minutest 
veins  and  fibres  of  a  plant  may  be 
taken  in  this  way,  superior  to  any 
engraving,  atid  whioJi  may  afterwards 
188 


be  coloured  according  to  nature- 
A  printer's  ball  laid  upou  a  leaf, 
which  is  afterwards  pressed  on  wet 
paper,  will  also  pr<;duce  a  fine  im- 
pression ;  or  if  the  leaf  be  touched 
with  printing  ink,  and  pressed  with 
a  rolling  pin,  nearly  the  same  effect 
will  be  produced. 

LEATHER.  To  discharge  grease 
from  articles  made  of  leather,  ap- 
ply the  white  of  an  eg;g  ;  let  it  dry 
in  the  sun,  and  then  rub  it  off.  A 
paste  made  of  dry  mustard,  potatoe 
meal,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  the  -spi- 
rits of  turpentine,  applied  to  the 
spot  and  rubbed  off  dry,  will  also 
be  found  to  answer  the  purpose.  If 
not,  cleanse  it  with  a  little  vinegar. 
Tanned  leather  is  best  cleaned  with 
nitrous  acid  and  salts  of  lemon  di- 
luted with  water,  and  afterwards 
mixed  with  skimmed  milk.  The 
surface  of  the  leather  should  first 
be  cleaned  with  a  brush  and  soft 
water,  adding  a  little  free  sand,  and 
then  repeatedly  scoured  with  a  brush 
dipped  in  the  nitrous  mixture.  It 
is  afterwards  to  be  cleaned  with  a 
sponge  and  water,  and  left  to  dry. 

LEAVENED  BREAD.  Take  two 
pounds  of  dough  from  the  last  bak- 
ing, and  keep  it  in  flour.  Put  the 
dough  or  leaven  into  a  peck  of  flour 
the  night  before  it  is  baked,  and 
work  them  well  together  in  warm 
water.  Cover  it  up  warm  in  a  wood- 
en vessel,  and  the  next  morning  it 
will  be  suflSciently  fermented  to  mix 
with  two  or  three  bushels  of  flour  : 
then  work  it  up  with  warm  water, 
and  a  pound  of  salt  to  each  bushel. 
Cover  it  with  flannel  till  it  rises, 
knead  it  well,  work  it  into  broad 
flat  loaves  or  bricks,  and  bake  them 
as  other  bread. 

LEEK  MILK.  Wash  a  large 
handful  of  leeks,  cut  them  small, 
and  boil  them  in  a  gallon  of  milk 
till  it  become  as  thick  as  cream. 
Then  strain  it,  and  drink  a  small 
bason  full  twice  a  day.  This  is  good 
for  the  jaundice. 

LEEK  SOUP.     Chop  a  quantity 


LEG 


LEM 


of  leeks  into  some  mutton  broth  or 
liquor,  with  a  seasoning  of  salt  and 
pepper.  Simmer  them  an  hour  in 
a  saucepan  ;  mix  some  oatmeal  with 
a  little  cold  water  quite  smooth,  and 
pour  it  into  the  soup.  Simmer  it 
gently  over  a  slow  fire,  and  take  care 
that  it  does  not  burn  to  the  bottom. 
This  is  a  Scotch  dish. 

LEG  OF  LAMB.  To  make  it 
look  as  white  as  possible,  it  should 
be  boiled  in  a  cloth.  At  the  same 
time  the  loin  should  be  fried  in 
steaks,  and  served  with  it,  garnished 
with  dried  or  fried  parsley.  Spinach 
to  eat  with  it.  The  leg  may  be 
roasted,  or  dressed  separately. 

LEG  OF  MUTTON.  If  roast- 
ed, serve  it  up  with  onion  or  currant- 
jelly  sauce.  If  boiled,  with  caper 
sauce  and  vep^etables. 

LEG  OF  PORK.  Salt  it,  and 
let  it  lie  six  or  seven  days  in  the 
pickle,  turn  and  rub  it  with  the  brine 
every  day.  Put  it  into  boiling  wa- 
ter, if  not  too  salt ;  use  a  good  quan- 
tity of  water,  and  let  it  boil  all  the 
time  it  is  on  the  tire.  Send  it  to 
table  with  peas  pudding,  melted  but- 
ter, turnips,  carrots,  or  greens.  If 
it  is  wanted  to  be  dressed  sooner,  it 
may  be  hastened  by  putting  a  little 
fresh  salt  on  it  every  day.  It  will 
then  be  ready  in  half  the  time,  but 
it  will  not  be  quite  so  tender. — To 
dress  a  leg  of  pork  like  goose,  first 
parboil  it,  then  take  off  the  skin, 
and  roast  it.  Baste  it  with  butter, 
and  make  a  savoury  powder  of  fine- 
ly minced  or  dried  and  powdered 
sage,  ground  black  pepper,  and 
bread  crumbs  rubbed  together 
through  a  cullender  ;  to  which  may 
be  added  an  onion,  very  finely 
minced.  Sprinkle  the  joint  with 
this  mixture  when  it  is  almost  roast- 
ed, put  half  a  pint  of  made  gravy 
into  the  dish,  and  goose  stuffing  un- 
der the  knuckle  skin,  or  garnish  with 
balls  of  it,  either  fried  or  boiled. 

LEG  OF  VEAL.  Let  the  fillet 
be  cut  large  or  small,  as  best  suits 


the  size  of  the  company.  Takeout, 
the  bone,  fill  the  space  with  a  fine 
stuffing,  skewer  it  quite  round,  and 
send  it  to  table  with  the  large  side 
uppermost.  When  half  roasted,  or 
before,  put  a  paper  over  the  fat, 
and  take  care  to  allow  sufficient 
time  :  as  the  meat  is  very  solid, 
place  it  at  a  good  distance  from  the 
fire,  that  it  may  be  gradually  heated 
through.  Serve  it  up  with  melted 
butter  poured  over  it.  Some  of  it 
would  be  good  for  potting. 

LEMON  BRANDY.  Pare  two 
dozen  of  lemons,  and  steep  the  peels 
in  a  gal'lon  of  brandy.  Squeeze  the 
lemons  on  two  pounds  of  fine  sugar, 
and  add  six  quarts  of  water.  The 
next  day  put  the  ingredients  toge- 
ther, pour  on  three  pints  of  boiling 
milk,  let  it  stand  two  days,  and 
strain  it  off. 

LEMON  CAKE.  Beat  up  the 
whites  often  eggs,  with  three  spoon- 
fuls of  orange  flower  water  ;  put  in 
a  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  and  the 
rind  of  a  lemon  grated.  When  it  is 
well  mixed,  add  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs 
beaten  smooth.  Stir  in  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  flour,  put  the  cake 
into  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  it  an 
hour  carefully. 

LEMON  CHEESECAKES.  Mix 
four  ounces  of  fine  sifted  sugar 
and  four  ounces  of  butter,  and  melt 
it  gently.  Then  add  the  yolks  of 
two  and  the  white  of  one  egg,  the 
rind  of  three  lemons  shred  fine,  and 
thejuiceof  one  and  a  half ;  also  one 
sasoy  biscuit,  some  blanched  al- 
monds pounded,  and  three  spoon- 
fuls of  brandy.  Mix  them  well  to- 
gether, and  put  in  the  following 
paste.  Eight  ounces  of  flour,  six 
ounces  of  butter,  two  thirds  of  which 
must  first  be  mixed  with  the  flour; 
then  wet  it  with  six  spoonfuls  of  wa- 
ter, and  roll  in  the  remainder.— 
Another  way.  Boil  two  large  le- 
mons, or  three  small  ones,  and  after 
squeezing,  pound  them  well  toge- 
189 


LEM 


L  E  M 


^therin  a  mortar,  with  fo«r  ounces  of 
loaf  sugar,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and 
eight  ounces  of  fresh  butter.  Fill 
the  patti«pans  half  full.  Orange 
cheesecakes  are  done  in  the  same 
way,  only  the  peel  must  be  boiled 
in  two  or  three  waters  to  take  out 
the  bitterness  :  or  make  them  of 
orange  marmalade  well  beaten  in  a 
mortar. 

LEMON  CREAM.  Put  to  a  pint 
of  thick  cream,  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  four  ounces  of  fine 
sugar,  and  the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon. 
Boil  it  up,  and  stir  it  till  nearly  cold. 
Put  the  juice  of  a  lemon  into  a  bowl, 
and  pour  the  cream  upon  it,  stirring 
it  till  quite  cold.  White  lemon  cream 
is  made  in  the  same  way,  only  put 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  instead  of  the 
yolks,  whisking  it  extremely  well  to 
a  froth. 

LEMON  CUSTARDS.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  eight  eggs  till  they  are  as 
white  as  milk  ;  then  put  to  them  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  the  rinds  of 
two  lemons  grated,  and  the  juice 
sweetened  to  taste.  Stir  it  on  the 
fire  till  it  thickens  ;  then  add  a  large 
glass  of  rich  wine,  and  half  a  glass 
of  brandy.  Give  the  whole  one 
scald,  and  put  it  in  cups  to  be  eaten 
cold. 

LEMON  DROPS.  Grate  three 
large  lemons,  with  a  large  piece  of 
double-refined  sugar.  Then  scrape 
the  sugar  into  a  plate,  add  half  a 
tea-spoonful  of  flour,  mix  well,  and 
beat  it  into  a  light  paste  with  the 
white  of  an  egg.  Drop  it  upon  white 
paper,  and  put  the  drops  into  a  lAo- 
derate  oven  on  a  tin  plate. 

LEMON  HONEYCOMB.  Sweet- 
en the  juice  of  a  lemon  to  your  taste, 
and  put  it  in  the  dish  that  you  in- 
tend to  serve  it  in.  Mix  the  white 
of  an  egg  well  beaten,  with  a  pint 
of  rich  cream,  and  a  little  sugar. 
Whisk  it;  and  as  the  froth  rises, 
put  it  on  the  lemon  juice.  Prepare 
it  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  used. 

LEMON  JUICE.  In  order  to 
190 


keep  this  article  ready  for  use,  the 
best  way  is  to  buy  the  fruit  when  it 
is  cheap,  and  lay  it  two  or  three 
days  in  a  cool  place.  If  too  unripe 
to  squeeze  immediately,  cut  the  peel 
off  some  of  them,  and  roll  them  un- 
der the  hand,  to  make  them  part 
with  the  juice  more  freely.  Others 
may  be  left  unpared  for  grating, 
when  the  pulp  is  taken  out,  and  they 
are  dried.  Squeeze  the  juice  into 
a  china  bason,  and  strain  it  through 
some  muslin  which  will  not  permit 
any  of  the  pulp  to  pass.  Having 
prepared  some  small  phials,  per- 
fectly dry,  fill  them  with  the  juice 
so  near  the  top  as  only  to  admit  half 
a  tea-spoonful  of  sweet  oil  into  each. 
Cork  the  bottles  tight,  and  set  them 
upright  in  a  cool  place.  When  the 
lemon  juice  is  wanted,  open  only 
such  a  sized  bottle  as  will  be  used 
in  two  or  three  days.  Wind  some 
clean  cotton  round  a  skewer,  and 
dipping  it  in,  the  oil  will  be  attract- 
ed ;  and  when  all  of  it  is  removed, 
the  juice  will  be  as  fine  as  when  first 
bottled.  Hang  the  peels  up  to  dry, 
and  keep  them  from  the  dust. 

LEMON  MINCE  PIES.  Squeeze 
a  large  lemon,  boil  the  outside  till 
tender  enough  to  beat  to  a  mash. 
Add  to  it  three  large  apples  chop- 
ped, four  ounces  of  suet,  half  a 
pound  of  washed  currants,  and  four 
ounces  of  sugar.  Put  in  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  and  candied  fruit,  as 
for  other  pies.  Make  a  short  crust, 
and  fill  the  pattipans  as  usual. 

LEMON  PICKLE.  Wipe  six  le- 
mons, and  cut  each  into  eight  pieces. 
Put  on  them  a  pound  of  salt,  six  large 
cloves  of  garlic,  two  ounces  of  horse- 
radish sliced  thin ;  likewise  of  cloves, 
mace,  nutmeg,  and  cayenne,  a  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  of  each,  and  two 
ounces  of  flour  of  mustard.  To 
these  add  two  quarts  of  vinegar, 
and  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  a 
well-tinned  saucepan  ;  or,  which  is 
better,  do  it  in  a  jar,  placed  in  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  or  set  the 


LEM 


L  E  M 


jar  on  a  hot  hearth  till  done.  Then 
set  the  jar  by  closely  covered,  stir- 
ring it  daily  for  six  weeks,  and  after- 
wards put  the  pickle  into  small  bot- 
tles. 

LEMON  PUDDING.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  ;  add  four  ounces 
of  white  sugar,  the  rind  of  a  lemon 
being  rubbed  with  some  lumps  of  it 
to  take  the  essence.  Then  peel  and 
beat  it  into  a  paste,  with  the  juice 
of  a  large  lemon,  and  mix  all  toge- 
ther with  four  or  five  ounces  of  warm- 
ed butter.  Put  a  crust  into  a  shal- 
low dish,  nick  the  edges,  and  put 
the  above  into  it.  When  sent  to 
table,  turn  the  pudding  out  of  the 
dish. 

LEMON  PUFFS.  Beat  and  sift 
a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  double- 
refined  sugar  ;  grate  the  rind  of  two 
large  lemons,  and  mix  it  well  with 
the  sugar.  Then  beat  the  whites  of 
three  new-laid  eggs  a  great  while  ; 
add  them  to  the  sugar  and  peel,  and 
beat  it  together  for  an  hour.  Make 
it  up  into  any  shape,  put  it  on  paper 
laid  on  tin  plates,  and  bake  in  a  mo- 
derate oven.  Oiling  the  paper  will 
make  it  come  off  with  ease,  but  it 
should  not  be  removed  till  quite 
cold. 

LEMON  SAUCE.  Cut  thin  slices 
of  lemon  into  very  small  dice,  and 
put  them  into  melted  butter.  Give 
it  one  boil,  and  pour  it  over  boiled 
fowls. 

LEMON  AND  LIVER  SAUCE. 
Pare  off  as  thin  as  possible  the  rind 
of  a  lemon,  or  of  a  Seville  orange, 
so  as  not  to  cut  off  any  of  the  white 
with  it.  Then  peel  off  all  the  white, 
and  cut  the  lemon  into  slices,  about 
as  thick  as  two  half  crowns.  Pick 
out  the  peps,  and  divide  the  slices 
into  small  squares.  Prepare  the 
liver  as  for  Liver  and  Parsley  Sauce, 
and  add  to  it  the  slices  of  lemon, 
and  a  little  of  the  peel  finely  minced. 
Warm  up  the  sauce  in  melted  butter, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil. 

LEMON  SYRUP.  Put  a  pint  of 
fresh  lemon  juice  to  a  pound  and 


three  quarters  of  lump  sugar.  Dis-W 
solve  it  by  a  gentle  heat,  skim  it  till 
the  surface  is  quite  clear,  and  add 
an  ounce  of  lemon  peel  cut  very  t'hin. 
Let  them  simmer  very  gently  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  run  the  syrup 
through  a  flannel.  When  cold,  bot- 
tle and  cork  it  closely,  and  keep  it 
in  a  cool  place. 

LEMON  WATER.  A  delightful 
drink  may  be  made  of  two  slices  of 
lemon,  thinly  pared  into  a  teapot, 
with  a  little  sugar,  or  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  capillaire.  Pour  in  a  pint  of 
boiling  water,  and  stop  it  close  two 
hours. 

LEMON  WHEY.  Pour  into  boil- 
ing milk  as  much  lemon  juice  as 
will  make  a  small  quantity  quite 
clear  ;  dilute  it  with  hot  water  to  an 
agreeable  smart  acid,  and  add  a  bit 
or  two  of  sugar.  This  is  less  heat- 
ing than  if  made  of  wine  ;  and  if  in- 
tended only  to  excite  perspiration, 
will  answer  the  purpose  as  well. 
Vinegar  whey  is  made  in  the  same 
manner,  by  using  vinegar  only,  in- 
stead of  lemon  juice. 

LEMON  WHITE  SAUCE.  Cut 
the  peel  of  a  small  lemon  very  thin, 
and  put  it  into  a  pint  of  sweet  rich 
cream,  with  a  sprig  of  lemon  thyme, 
and  ten  white  peppercorns.  Sim- 
mer gently  till  it  tastes  well  of  the 
lemon,  then  strain  and  thicken  it 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour  rub- 
bed in  it.  Boil  it  up,  stir  it  well, 
and  pour  the  juice  of  the  lemon 
strained  into  it.  Dish  up  the  chick- 
ens, and  mix  with  the  cream  a  little 
white  gravy  quite  hot,  but  do  not 
boil  them  together  :  add  a  little  salt 
to  flavour. 

LEMONS  FOR  PUDDINGS.  To 
keep  oranges  or  lemons  for  pud- 
dings, squeeze  out  the  pulp,  and  put 
the  outsides  into  water  for  a  fort- 
night. Then  boil  them  in  the  same 
water  till  they  are  quite  tender,  strain 
the  liquor  from  them,  and  when  they 
are  tolerably  dry,  put  them  into  any 
jar  of  candy  that  happens  to  be  left 
191 


LEM 


Lie 


»  from  old  sweetmeats.  Or  boil  a 
small  quantity  of  syrup  of  lump  su- 
gar and  water,  and  put  over  them. 
In  a  week  or  ten  days  boil  them 
gently  in  it  till  they  look  clear,  and 
cover  them  with  it  in  the  jar.  If 
the  fruit  be  cut  in  halves,  they  will 
occupy  less  space. 

LEMONADE.  To  prepare  le- 
monade a  day  before  it  is  wanted 
for  use,  pare  two  dozen  lemons  as 
thin  as  possible.  Put  eight  of  the 
rinds  into  three  quarts  of  hot  water, 
not  boiling,  and  cover  it  over  for 
three  or  four  hours.  Rub  some  fine 
loaf  sugar  on  the  lemons  to  attract 
the  essence,  and  put  it  into  a  china 
bowl,  in1;o  which  the  juice  of  the 
lemons  is  to  be  squeezed.  Add  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  fine  sugar,  then 
put  the  water  to  the  above,  and  three 
quarts  of  boiling  milk.  Pour  the 
mixture  through  a  jelly  bag,  till  it 
is  perfectly  clear. — Another  way. 
Pare  a  quantity  of  lemons,  and  pour 
some  hot  water  on  the  peels.  While 
infusing,  boil  some  sugar  and  water 
to  a  good  syrup,  with  the  white  of 
an  egg  whipt  up.  When  it  boils, 
pour  a  little  cold  water  into  it.  Set 
it  on  again,  and  when  it  boils  take 
off  the  pan,  and  let  it  stand  by  to 
settle.  If  there  be  any  scum,  take 
it  off,  and  pour  it  clear  from  the  se- 
diment, to  the  water  in  which  the 
peels  were  infused,  and  the  lemon 
juice.  Stir  and  taste  it,  and  add 
as  much  more  water  as  shall  be  ne- 
cessary to  make  a  very  rich  lemon- 
ade. Wet  a  jelly  bag,  and  squeeze 
it  dry  ;  then  strain  the  liquor,  and 
it  will  be  very  fine. — To  make  a  le- 
monade which  has  the  appearance 
of  jelly,  pare  two  Seville  oranges 
and  six  lemons  very  thin,  and  steep 
them  four  hours  in  a  quart  of  hot 
water.  Boil  a  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  loaf  sugar  in  three  pints  of  water, 
and  skim  it  clean.  Add  the  two 
liquors  to  the  juice  of  six  China 
oranges,  and  twelve  lemons ;  stir 
the  whole  well,  and  run  it  through  a 
jelly  bag  till  it  is  ouite  clear.  Then 
192 


add  a  little  orange  water,  if  ap- 
proved, and  more  sugar  if  necessary. 
Let  it  be  well  corked,  and  it  will 
keep.- -Lemonade  may  be  prepared 
in  a  minute,  bj  pounding  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  citric  or  crystalised 
lemon  acid,  with  a  few  drops  of 
quintessence  of  lemon  peel,  and 
mixing  it  by  degrees  with  a  pint  of 
clarified  syrup  or  capillaire. 

LENT  POTATOES.  Beat  three 
or  four  ounces  of  almonds,  and  three 
or  four  bitter  ones  when  blanched, 
putting  a  little  orange  flower  water 
to  prevent  oiling.  Add  eight  ounces 
of  butter,  four  eggs  well  beaten  and 
strained,  half  a  glass  of  raisin  wine, 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Beat  all  toge- 
ther till  quite  smooth,  and  grate  in 
three  Savoy  biscuits.  Make  balls 
of  the  above  with  a  little  flour,  the 
size  of  a  chesnut ;  throw  them  into 
a  stewpan  of  boiling  lard,  and  boil 
them  of  a  beautiful  yellow  brown. 
Drain  them  on  a  sieve,  and  serve 
with  sweet  sauce  in  a  boat. 

LETHARGY.  This  species  of 
apoplexy  discovers  itself  by  an  in- 
vincible drowsiness,  or  inclination 
to  sleep  ;  and  is  frequently  attended 
with  a  degree  of  fever,  and  coldness 
of  the  extremities.  Blisters  and 
emetics  have  often  procured  relief. 
The  affusion  of  cold  water  upon  the 
head,  and  the  burning  of  feathers  or 
other  fetid  substances,  held  near  the 
nostrils,  are  also  attended  with  ad-* 
vantage.  " 

LICE.  Want  of  cleanliness,  im- 
moderate warmth,  violent  perspira- 
tion, and  a  corrupted  state  of  the 
fluids,  tend  to  promote  the  genera- 
tion of  this  kind  of  vermin.  The 
most  simple  remedy  is  the  seed  of 
parsley,  reduced  to  a  fine  powder 
and  rubbed  to  the  roots  of  the  hair, 
or  to  rub  the  parts  affected  with 
garlic  and  mustard.  To  clean  the 
heads  of  children,  take  half  an  ounce 
of  honey,  half  an  ounce  of  sulphur, 
an  ounce  of  vinegar,  and  two  ounces 
of  sweet  oil.  Mix  the  whole  into  a 
liniment,  and  rub  a  little  of  it  on  the 


LIN 


LIK 


head  repeatedly.  Lice  which  infest 
clothes,  may  be  destroyed  by  fumi- 
gating the  articles  of  dress  with  the 
vapour  of  sulphur.  Garden  lice 
may  be  treated  in  the  same  way  as 
for  destroying  insects. 

LIGHT  CAKE.  Mix  a  pound 
of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  currants, 
and  a  Kttle  nutmeg,  sugar,  and  salt. 
Melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter 
in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk,  and 
strain  into  it  two  spoonfuls  of  yeast 
and  two  eggs.  Stir  it  well  together, 
set  it  before  the  fire  to  rise,  and 
bake  it  in  a  quick  oven. 

LIGHT  PASTE.  For  tarts  and 
cheesecakes,  beat  up  the  white  of 
an  e^g  to  a  strong  froth,  and  mix  it 
with  as  much  water  as  will  make 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine 
flour  into  a  very  stifl"  paste.  Roll 
it  out  thin,  lay  two  or  three  ounces 
of  butter  upon  it  in  little  bits,  dredge 
it  with  a  little  flour,  and  roll  it  up 
tight.  Roll  it  out  again,  and  add 
the  same  proportion  of  butter,  and 
so  proceed  till  the  whole  is  worked  up. 

LIGHT  PUFFS.  Mix  two  spoon- 
fuls of  flour,  a  little  grated  lemon 
peel,  some  nutmeg,  half  a  spoonful 
of  brandy,  a  little  loaf-sugar,  and 
one  egg.  Fry  it  enough,  but  not 
brown ;  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with 
five  eggs,  whites  and  yolks.  Put 
a  quantity  of  lard  in  a  fryingpan  ; 
and  when  quite  hot,  drop  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  batter  at  a  time,  and 
turn  them  as  they  brown.  Send 
the  puflfs  to  table  quickly,  with  sweet 
sauce. 

LIME  WATER.  Pour  two  gal- 
loiis  of  water  upon  a  pound  of  fresh- 
burnt  lime  ;  and  when  the  ebullition 
ceases,  stir  it  wp  well,  and  let  it 
stand  till  the  lime  is  settled.  Filter 
the  liquor  through  paper,  and  keep 
it  for  use  closely  stopped.  It  is 
chiefly  used  for  the  gravel,  in  which 
case  a  pint  or  more  may  be  drunk 
daily.  For  the  itch,  or  other  dis- 
ea8e8  of  the  skin,  it  is  to  be  applied 
eilfinally. 

LINEN,  Lineu  in  every  form  is 
(No.  9.) 


liable  to  all  the  accidents  of  mildew, 
iron  moulds,  ink  spots,  and  various 
other  stains,  which  prove  highly  in- 
jurious, if  not  speedily  removed.  In 
case  of  mildew,  rub  the  part  well 
with  soap,  then  scrape  and  rub  on 
some  fine  chalk,  and  lay  the  linen 
out  to  bleach.  Wet  it  a  little  now 
and  then,  and  repeat  the  operation 
if  necessary.  Ink  spots  and  iron 
moulds  may  be  removed,  by  rubbing 
them  with  the  salt  of  sorrel,  or  weak 
muriatic  acid,  and  laying  the  part 
over  a  teapot  or  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  so  that  it  may  be  afl'ected  by 
the  steam.  Or  some  crystals  of 
tartar  powdered,  and  half  the  quan- 
tity of  alum,  applied  in  the  same 
manner,  will  be  found  to  extract  the 
spots.  The  spirits  of  salts  diluted 
with  water,  will  remove  iron  moulds 
from  linen  ;  and  sal  ammoniac  with 
lime,  will  take  out  the  stains  of  wine. 
Fruit  stains  may  generally  be  re- 
moved by  wetting  the  part  with 
water,  and  exposing  it  to  the  fumes 
of  brimstone.  When  ink  has  been 
suddenly  spilled  on  linen,  wet  the 
place  immediately  with  the  juice  of 
sorrel  or  lemon,  or  with  vinegar, 
and  rub  it  with  hard  white  soap. 
Or  add  to  the  juice  a  little  salts, 
steam  the  linen  over  boiling  water, 
and  wash  it  afterwards  in  ley.  If 
ink  be  spilled  on  a  green  tablecloth 
or  carpet,  the  readiest  way  is  to 
take  it  up  immediately  with  a  spoon, 
and  by  pouring  on  fresh  water,  while 
the  spoon  is  constantly  applied,  the 
stains  will  soon  be  removed .  Scorch- 
ed linen  may  be  restored  by  means 
of  the  following  application.  Boil 
two  ounces  of  fuller's  earth,  an  ounce 
of  hen's  dung,  half  an  ounce  of  soap, 
and  the  juice  of  two  onions,  in  half 
a  pint  of  vinegar,  till  reduced  to  a 
good  consistency.  Spread  the  com- 
position over  the  damaged  part,  let 
it  dry  on,  and  then  wash  it  well 
once  or  twice.  If  the  threads  be 
not  actually  consumed  by  the  scorch, 
the  linen  will  soon  be  restored  to  ita 
former  whiteness. 

cc  193 


LI  V 


LOB 


LIP  SALVE.  Put  into  a  small 
jar  two  ounces  of  white  wax,  half 
an  ounce  of  spermaceti,  and  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  oil  of  sweet  almonds. 
Tie  it  down  close,  and  put  the  jar 
into  a  small  saucepan,  with  as  much 
water  as  will  nearly  reach  the  top 
of  the  jar,  but  not  so  as  to  boil  over 
it,  and  let  it  simmer  till  the  wax  is 
melted.  Then  put  in  a  pennyworth 
of  alkanet  root  tied  up  in  a  rag,  with 
the  jar  closed,  and  boil  it  till  it  be- 
comes red.  Take  out  the  alkanet 
root,  and  put  in  two  pennyworth  of 
essence  of  lemon,  and  a  few  drops 
of  bergamot.  Pour  some  into  small 
boxes  for  present  use,  and  the  re- 
mainder into  a  gallipot  tied  down 
with  a  bladder.— Another.  An  ounce 
of  white  wax  and  ox  marrow,  with 
three  ounces  of  white  pomatum, 
melted  together  over  a  slow  fire, 
will  make  an  agreeable  lip  salve, 
which  may  be  coloured  with  a  dram 
of  alkanet,  and  stirred  till  it  becomes 
a  fine  red. 

LITTLE  BREAD  PUDDINGS. 
Steep  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf 
grated,  in  about  a  pint  of  warm 
milk.  When  sufficiently  soaked, 
beat  up  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks, 
and  mix  with  the  bread.  Add  two 
ounces  of  warmed  butter,  some  su- 
gar, orange  flower  water,  a  spoonful 
of  brandy,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  a 
tea-cupful  of  cream.  Beat  all  well 
together,  bake  in  buttered  teacups, 
and  serve  with  pudding  sauce.  A 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants  may 
be  added,  but  the  puddings  are  good 
without.  Orange  or  lemon  will  be 
an  agreeable  addition. 

LIVER  AND  HERBS.  Clean 
and  drain  a  good  quantity  of  spinach, 
two  large  handfuls  of  parsley,  and 
a  handful  of  green  onions.  Chop  the 
parsley  and  onions,  and  sprinkle 
them  among  the  spinach.  Stew  them 
together  with  a  little  salt  and  butter, 
shake  the  pan  when  it  begins  to 
grow  warm,  and  cover  it  close  till 
done  enough  over  a  slow  fire.  Lay 
on  slices  of  liver,  fried  of  a  nice 
194 


browr,  and  slices  of  bacon  just 
warmed  at  the  fire.  On  the  outside 
part  of  the  herbs  lay  some  eggs 
nicely  fried,  and  trimmed  round. 
Or  the  eggs  may  be  served  on  the 
herbs,  and  the  liver  garnished  with 
the  bacon  separately. 

LIVER  SAUCE.  Chop  some  li- 
ver of  rabbits  or  fowls,  and  do  it 
the  same  as  for  lemon  sauce,  with 
a  very  little  pepper  and  salt,  and 
some  parsley. 

LIVER  AND  PARSLEY  SAUCE. 
Wash  the  fresh  liver  of  a  fowl  or 
rabbit,  and  boil  it  five  minutes  in  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  water.  Chop 
it  fine,  or  pound  or  bruise  it  in  a 
little  of  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in, 
and  rub  it  through  a  sieve.  Wash 
about  one  third  the  bulk  of  parsley 
leaves,  put  them  into  boiling  water, 
with  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  let 
them  boil.  Then  lay  the  parsley 
on  a  hair  sieve,  mince  it  very  fine, 
and  mix  it  with  the  liver.  Warm 
up  the  sauce  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  melted  butter,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil. 

LOBSTERS.  If  they  have  not 
been  long  taken,  the  claws  will  have 
a  strong  motion,  when  the  finger  is 
pressed  upon  the  eyes.  The  hea- 
viest are  the  best,  and  it  is  prefer- 
able to  boil  them  at  home.  If  pur- 
chased ready  boiled,  try  whether 
their  tails  are  stiffs,  and  pull  up  with 
a  spring  ;  otherwise  that  part  will 
be  flabby.  The  male  lobster  is 
known  by  the  narrow  back  part  of 
his  tail,  and  the  two  uppermost  fins 
within  it  are  stiff"  and  hard :  those 
of  the  hen  are  soft,  and  the  tail 
broader.  The  male,  though  generally 
smaller,  has  the  highest  flavour,  the 
flesh  is  firmer,  and  the  colour  when 
boiled  is  a  deeper  red. 

LOBSTER  PATTIES.  To  be 
made  as  oyster  patties,  gently  stew- 
ed and  seasoned,  and  put  into  paste 
baked  in  pattipans,  with  the  addi- 
tion of  a  little  cream,  and  a  very 
small  piece  of  butter. 

LOBSTER   PIE.      Boil    two    or 


LOB 


LOD 


three  small  lobsters,  take  out  the 
tails,  and  cut  them  in  two.  Take 
out  the  gut,  cut  each  into  four  pieces, 
and  lay  them  in  a  small  dish.  Put 
in  the  meat  of  the  claws,  and  that 
picked  out  of  the  body  ;  pick  off 
the  furry  parts  of  the  latter,  and 
take  out  the  lady ;  beat  the  spawn 
in  a  mortar,  and  likewise  all  the 
shells.  Stew  them  with  some  wa- 
ter, two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar, pepper,  salt,  and  some  pounded 
mace.  A  large  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour  must  be  added,  when  the 
goodness  of  the  shells  is  obtained. 
Give  it  a  boil  or  two,  and  pour  it 
into  a  dish  strained  ;  strew  some 
crumbs,  and  put  a  paste  over  all. 
Bake  it  slowly,  and  only  till  the 
paste  is  done. 

LOBSTER  SALAD.  Make  a 
salad,  cut  some  of  the  red  part  of 
the  lobster,  and  add  to  it.  This 
will  form  a  pleasing  contrast  to  the 
white  and  green  of  the  vegetables. 
Be  careful  not  to  put  in  too  much 
oil,  as  shell-fish  absorbs  the  sharp- 
ness of  the  vinegar.  Serve  it  up  in 
a  dish,  not  in  a  bowl. 

LOBSTER  SAUCE.  Pound  the 
spawn  with  two  anchovies,  pour  on 
two  spoonfuls  of  gravy,  and  strain 
all  into  some  melted  butter.  Then 
put  in  the  meat  of  the  lobster,  give 
it  all  one  boil,  and  add  the  squeeze 
of  a  lemon.  Or  leave  out  the  an- 
chovies and  gravy,  and  do  it  as 
above,  either  with  or  without  salt 
and  ketchup,  as  may  be  most  ap- 
proved. Many  persons  prefer  the 
flavour  of  the  lobster  and  salt  only. 

LOBSTER  SOUP.  Take  the 
meat  from  the  claws,  bodies,  and 
tails,  of  six  small  lobsters.  Remove 
the  brown  fur,  and  the  bag  in  the 
head  ;  beat  the  fins  in  a  mortar, 
the  chine,  and  the  small  claws.  Boil 
it  very  gently  in  two  quarts  of  wa- 
ter, with  the  crumb  of  a  French  roll, 
some  white  pepper,  salt,  two  an- 
chovies, a  large  onion,  sweet  herbs, 
and  a  bit  of  lemon  peel,  till  all  the 
goodness  is  extracted,  and  then  strain 


it  off".  Beat  the  spawn  in  a. mortar 
with  a  bit  of  butter,  a  quarter  of  a 
nutmeg,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour, 
and  then  mix  it  with  a  quart  of 
cream.  Cut  the  tails  into  piece*, 
and  give  them  a  boil  up  with  the 
cream  and  soup.  Serve  with  force- 
meat balls  made  of  the  remainder 
of  the  lobster,  mace,  pepper,  salt, 
a  few  crumbs,  and  an  egg  or  two. 
Let  the  balls  be  made  up  with  a  lit- 
tle flour,  and  heated  in  the  soup. 

LODGINGS.  The  tenure  on 
which  the  generality  of  houses  are 
held,  does  not  warrant  a  tenant  to 
let,  or  a  lodger  to  take  apartments 
by  the  year.  To  do  this,  the  tenant 
ought  himself  to  be  the  proprietor 
of  the  premises,  or  to  hold  posses- 
sion by  lease  for  an  unexpired  term 
of  several  years,  which  would  invest 
him  with  the  right  of  a  landlord  to 
give  or  receive  half  a  year's  notice, 
or  proceed  as  in  other  cases  of  land- 
lord and  tenant.  Unfurnished  lodg- 
ings are  generally  let  by  the  week, 
inonth,  or  quarter;  and  if  ever  they 
be  let  by  the  year,  it  is  a  deviation 
from  a  general  custom,  and  attended 
with  inconvenience.  If  a  lodger 
should  contend  that  he  agreed  for 
a  whole  year,  he  must  produce  some 
evidence  of  the  fact;  such  as  a 
written  agreement,  or  the  annual 
payment  of  rent ;  otherwise  he  must 
submit  to  the  general  usage  of  being 
denominated  a  quarterly  lodger.  In 
the  case  of  weekly  tenants,  the  rent 
must  be  paid  weekly  ;  for  if  once 
allowed  to  go  to  a  quarter,  and  the 
landlord  accept  it  as  a  quarter's 
rent,  he  breaks  the  agreement ;  the 
inmate  then  becomes  a  quarterly 
lodger,  and  must  receive  a  quarter's 
notice  to  quit.  More  care  however 
is  still  required  in  letting  lodgings 
that  are  ready  furnished,  as  the  law 
does  not  regard  them  in  the  same 
light  as  other  tenements.  Such 
apartments  are  generally  let  by  the 
week,  on  payment  of  a  certain  sum, 
part  of  which  is  for  the  room,  and 
part  for  the  use  of  the  furniture^ 
195 


LO  I 


LON 


which  is  attended  with  some  diHi- 
culty.  Properly  considered,  the 
payment  is  not  rent,  nor  are  the 
same  remedies  lawful  as  in  unfur- 
nished lodgings.  The  best  way  to 
let  furnished  lodgings  is  to  have  a 
written  agreement,  with  a  catalogue 
of  all  the  goods,  and  to  let  the 
apartments  and  the  furniture  for 
separate  sums :  in  which  case,  if 
the  rent  be  not  paid,  distress  may 
be  made  for  it,  though  not  for  the 
furniture.  Persons  renting  furnish- 
ed apartments  frequently  absent 
themselves,  without  apprising  the 
housekeeper,  and  as  often  leave  the 
rent  in  arrear.  In  such  a  case,  the 
housekeeper  should  send  for  a  con- 
stable, after  the  expiration  of  the 
first  week,  and  in  his  presence  enter 
the  apartment,  take  out  the  lodger's 
property  and  secure  it,  until  a  re- 
quest be  made  for  it.  If  after  four- 
teen days'  public  notice  in  the  ga- 
zette, the  lodger  do  not  come  and 
pay  the  arrears,  the  housekeeper 
may  sell  the  property  for  the  sum 
due.  When  a  housekeeper  is  trou- 
bled with  a  disagreeable  character, 
the  best  way  to  recover  possession 
of  the  apartment  is  to  deliver  a 
written  notice  by  a  person  that  can 
be  witness,  stating  that  if  thfe  lodger 
did  not  quit  that  day  week,  the  land- 
lord would  insist  on  his  paying  an 
advance  of  so  much  per  week  ;  and 
if  he  did  not  quit  after  such  notice, 
he  would  make  the  same  advance 
after  every  following  week.  In  the 
city  of  London,  payment  may  be 
procured  by  summoning  to  the  Court 
,^f  Requests  at  Guildhall,  for  any 
sum  not  exceeding  five  pounds.  In 
other  parts  of  the  kingdom  there 
are  similar  Courts  of  Conscience, 
where  payment  may  be  enforced  to 
the  amount  of  forty  shillings. 

LOIN  OF  MUTTON.  If  roast- 
ed, it  is  better  to  cut  it  lengthways 
as  a  saddle  ;  or  if  for  steaks,  pies, 
or  broth.  If  there  be  more  fat  on 
the  loin  than  is  agreeable,  take  off 
a  part  of  it  before  it  is  dressed  ;  it 
196 


will  make  an  excellent  suet  pudding, 
or  crust  for  a  meat  pie,  if  cut  V€;ry 
fine. 

LONDON  BREAD.  According 
to  the  method  practised  by  the  Lon- 
don bakers,  a  sack  of  flour  is  sifted 
into  the  kneading  trough,  to  mak^;^ 
it  lie  loose.  Six  pounds  of  salt, 
and  two  pounds  of  alum,  are  sepa- 
rately dissolved  in  hot  water ;  and 
the  whole  being  cooled  to  about 
ninety  degrees,  is  mixed  with  two 
quarts  of  yeast.  When  this  mix- 
ture has  been  well  stirred,  it  is 
strained  through  a  cloth  or  sieve, 
and  is  then  poured  into  a  cavity 
made  in  the  flour.  The  whole  is 
now  mixed  up  into  a  dough,  and  a 
small  quantity  of  flour  being  sprink- 
led over  it,  it  is  covered  up  with 
cloths,  and  the  lid  of  the  trough  is 
shut  down,  the  better  to  retain  the 
heat.  The  fermentation  now  goes 
on,  and  the  mass  becomes  enlarged 
in  bulk.  In  the  course  of  two  or 
three  hours,  another  pailful  of  warm 
water  is  well  mixed  with  the  sponge, 
and  it  is  again  covered  up  for  about 
four  hours.  At  the  end  of  this  time, 
it  is  to  be  kneaded  for  more  than 
an  hour,  with  three  pailfuls  of 
warm  water.  It  is  now  returned  to 
the  trough  in  pieces,  sprinkled  with 
dry  flour,  aud  at  the  end  of  four 
hours  more,  it  is  again  kneaded  for 
half  an  hour,  and  divided  into  quar- 
tern and  half-quartern  loaves.  The 
weight  of  a  quartern  loaf,  before 
baking,  should  be  four  pounds  fif- 
teen ounces  ;  after  baking,  four 
pounds  six  ounces,  avoirdupois. 
When  the  dough  has  received  its 
proper  shape  for  loaves,  it  is  put 
into  the  oven,  at  a  heat  that  will 
scorch  flour  without  burning,  where 
it  is  baked  two  hours  and  a  half,  or 
three  hours. 

LONDON  PORTER.  A  late 
writer  has  given  considerable  infor- 
niation  respecting  the  brewing  of 
porter.  His  intention  being  to  ex- 
hibit the  advantages  derived  from 
domestic  brewing,  he  has  annexed 


■^W^ 


LO  N 


LON 


the  pike  of  each  article  of  the  com- 
position, though  it  will  be  seen  that 
the  expense  on  some  of  the  princi- 
pal articles  has  been  considerably 
reduced  since  that  estimate  was 
given. 

£  s.  d. 
One  quarter  of  malt  .220 
8lb.  of  hops  ...  0  12  0 
Ql^  of  treacle  ...  0  2  0 
8lb  of  liquorice  root  bruis- 
ed       0     8      0 

8lb  of  essentia  bina  .048 
8lb  of-  colouring  ..048 
Capsicum  half  an  ounce  0  0  2 
Spanish     liquorice     two 

ounces  ....  0  0  2 
India  berries  one  ounce  0  0  2 
Salt  of  tartar  two  drams  0  0  1 
Heading  a  quarter  of  an 

onnce  ....  0  0  1 
Ginger  three  ounces  .003 
Lime  four  ounces  ..001 
Linseed  one  ounce  ..001 
Cinnamon  bark  two  drams  0     0      2 


Coals 


3  14 
0     3 


Total  expense        £  3  17     7 


This  will  produce  ninety  gallons 
of  good  porter,  and  fifty  gallons  of 
table  beer ;  the  cost  of  the  porter 
at  the  large  breweries  being  £7  10s. 
and  that  of  the  beer  £1  Is.  leaves 
a  profit  of  £5  to  the  brewer. — The 

*  essentia  bina'  is  composed  of  eight 
pounds  of  moist  sugar,  boiled  in  an 
iron  vessel,  for  no  copp^  one  could 
withstand  the  heat  sufficiently,  till 
it  becomes  of  a  thick  syrupy  con- 
sistence, perfectly  black,  and  ex- 
tremely bitter.  The  *  colouring'  is 
composed  of  eight  pounds  of  moist 
sugar,  boiled  till  it  attains  a  middle 
state,  between  bitter  and  sweet.  It 
gives  that  fine  mellow  colour  usu- 
ally so  much  admired  in  good  porter. 
These  ingredients  are  added  to  the 
first  wort,  and  boiled  with  it.     The 

*  heading'  is  a  mixture  of  half  alum, 
and^ftlf  copperas,  ground  to  a  fine 


powder.  It  is  so  called,  from  its 
giving  to  porter  that  beautiful  head 
or  froth,  which  constitutes  one  of 
the  peculiar  properties  of  porter, 
and  which  publicans  are  so  anxious 
to  raise  to  gratify  their  customers. 
The  linseed,  ginger,  limewater,  cin- 
namon, and  several  other  small  ar- 
ticles, are  added  or  withheld  ac- 
cording to  the  taste  or  practice  of 
the  brewer,  which  accounts  for  the 
diff'erent  flavours  so  observable  in 
London  porter.  Of  the  articles  here 
enumerated,  it  is  sufficient  to  ob- 
serve, that  however  much  they  may 
surprise,  however  pernicious  or  dis- 
agreeable they  may  appear,  they 
have  always  been  deemed  necessary 
in  the  brewing  of  porter.  They  must 
invariably  be  used  by  those  who 
wish  to  continue  the  taste,  the  fla- 
vour and  appearance,  to  which  they 
have  been  accustomed. — Omitting 
however  those  ingredients  which  are 
deemed  pernicious,  it  will  be  seen 
by  the  following  estimate  how  much 
more  advantageous  it  is  to  provide 
even  a  small  quantity  of  home- 
brewed porter^  where  this  kind  of 
liquor  is  preferred. 

Ingredients  necessary  for  brewing 
five  gallons  of  porter. 

s.  d. 
One  peck  of  malt  ...  2  6 
Quarter  of  a  pound  of  liquorice 

bruised 0     3 

Spanish  liquorice  ....     0     6 

Essentia 0     2 

Colour 0     2 

Treacle 0     2 

Hops 0     G 

Capsicum  and  ginger       ..01 
Coals 0  10 


Total  expense 


4     8 


This  will  produce  five  gallons 
of  good  porter,  which  if 
bought  of  the  brewer  would 
cost 8     4 

But  being  brewed  at  home,  for  4     8 

Leaves  a  clear  gain  of  .     3    8 
♦   197 


LON 


LON 


Ihis  saving  is  quite  enough  to  pay 
for  time  and  trouble,  besides  the 
advantage  of  having  a  wholesome 
liquor,  free  from  all  poisonous  in- 
gredients. Porter  thus  brewed  will 
be  fit  for  use  in  a  week,  and  may 
be  drunk  with  pleasure.  To  do 
ample  justice  to  the  subject  how- 
ever, it  may  be  proper  briefly  to  no- 
tice the  specific  properties  of  the 
various  ingredients  which  enter  into 
the  composition  of  London  porter. 
It  is  evident  that  some  porter  is  more 
heady  than  others,  and  this  arises 
from  the  greater  or  less  quantity  of 
stupefying  ingredients  intermixed 
with  it.  Malt  itself,  to  produce  in- 
toxication, must  be  used  in  such 
large  quantities  as  would  very  much 
diminish  the  brewer's  profit.  Of  the 
wholesomeness  of  malt  there  can  be 
no  doubt ;  pale  malt  especially  is 
highly  nutritive,  containing  more 
balsamic  qualities  than  the  brown 
malt,  which  being  subject  to  a 
greater  degree  of  fire  in  the  kiln,  is 
sometimes  so  crusted  and  burnt, 
that  the  mealy  part  loses  some  of  its 
best  qualities.  Amber  malt  is  that 
which  is  dried  in  a  middling  degree, 
between  pale  and  brown,  and  is  now 
much  in  use,  being  the  most  plea- 
sant, and  free  from  either  extreme. 
Hops  are  an  aromatic  grateful  bit- 
ter, very  wholesome,  and  undoubt- 
edly efl[icacious  in  giving  both  fla- 
vour and  strength  to  the  beer.  Yeast 
is  necessary  to  give  the  liquor  that 
portion  of  elastic  air,  of  which  the 
boiling  deprives  it.  Without  fer- 
mentation, or  working,  no  worts, 
however  rich,  can  inebriate.  Liquo- 
rice root  is  pleasant,  wholesome,  and 
aperient;  and  opposes  the  astrin- 
gent qualities  of  some  of  the  other 
ingredients;  it  ought  therefore  to 
be  used,  as  should  Spanish  liquo- 
rice, which  possesses  the  same  pro- 
perties. Capsicum  disperses  wind, 
and  when  properly  used,  cannot  be 
unwholesome  :  it  leaves  a  glow  of 
warmth  on  the  stomach,  which  is 
perceptible  in  drinking  some  beers. 
1D8  ♦ 


Ginger  has  the  same  eff*ect  as  cap- 
sicum, and  it  also  cleanses  and  fla- 
tours  the  beer.  But  capsicum  be- 
ing cheaper  is  more  used,  and  by 
its  tasteless  though  extremely  hot 
quality,  cannot  be  so  readily  dis- 
covered in  beer  as  ginger.  Treacle 
partakes  of  many  of  the  properties 
of  liquorice  ;  and  by  promoting  the 
natural  secretions,  it  renders  porter 
and  beer  in  general*  very  wholesome. 
Treacle  also  is  a  cheaper  article 
than  sugar,  and  answers  the  purpose 
of  colour,  where  the  beer  is  intended 
for  immediate  consumption  ;  but  in 
summer,  when  a  body  is  required  to 
withstand  the  temperature  of  the 
air,  and  the  draught  is  not  quick, 
sugar  alone  can  give  body  to  porter. 
Treacle  therefore  is  a  discretionary 
article.  Coriander  seed,  used  prin- 
cipally in  ale,  is  warm  and  stomach- 
ic ;  but  when  used  in  great  quan- 
tity, it  is  pernicious.  Coculus  Indi- 
cus,  the  India  berry,  is  poisonous 
and  stupefying,  when  taken  in  any 
considerable  quantity.  When  ground 
into  fine  powder  it  is  undiscoverable 
in  the  liquor,  and  is  but  too  much 
used  to  the  prejudice  of  the  public 
health.  What  is  called  heading, 
should  be  made  of  the  salt  of  steel ; 
but  a  mixture  of  alum  and  coppera 
being  much  cheaper,  is  more  fre- 
quently used.  Alum  is  a  great  drier, 
and  causes  that  thirst  which  some 
beer  occasions  ;  so  that  the  more 
you  drink  of  it,  the  more  you  want. 
Alum  likewiite  gives  a  taste  of  age 
to  the  beer,  and  is  penetrating  to 
the  palate.  Copperas  is  well  known 
to  be  poisonous,  and  may  be  seen 
in  the  blackness  which  some  beer 
discovers.  Salt  is  highly  useful  in 
all  beers  ;  it  gives  a  pleasing  relish, 
and  also  fines  the  liquor. — ^These  re- 
marks are  sufiicient  to  show  the 
propriety  of  manufacturing  at  home 
a  good  wholesome  article  for  family 
use,  instead  of  resorting  to  a  public 
house  for  every  pint  of  beer  which 
nature  demands,  and  which  when 
procured    is    both    expensive  -and 


LON 


LON 


pernicious.  And  lest  any  objec- 
tion should  be  made,  as  to  the  diffi- 
culty and  inconvenience  of  brewing, 
a  few  additional  observations  will 
here  be  given,  in  order  to  facilitate 
this  very  important  part  of  domes- 
tic economy.  Be  careful  then  to 
procure  malt  and  hops  of  the  very 
best  quality,  and  let  the  brewing 
vessels  be  closely  inspected ;  the 
least  taint  may  spoil  a  whole  brew- 
ing of  beer.  The  mash  tub  should 
be  particularly  attended  to,  and  a 
\\hisp  of  clean  hay  or  straw  is  to  be 
spread  over  the  bottom  of  the  vessel 
in  the  inside,  to  prevent  the  flour 
of  the  malt  running  off  with  the 
liquor.  The  malt  being  emptied  in- 
to the  mash  tub,  and  the  water 
brought  to  boil,  dash  the  boiling 
water  in  the  copper  with  cold  wa- 
ter sufficient  to  stop  the  boiling, 
and  leave  it  just  hot  enough  to  scald 
the  finger,  always  remembering  to 
draw  off  the  second  mash  somewhat 
hotter  than  the  first.  The  water 
being  thus  brought  to  a  proper  tem- 
perature by  the  addition  of  cold 
water,  lade  it  out  of  the  copper  over 
the  malt  till  it  becomes  thoroughly 
wet,  stirring  it  well  to  prevent  the 
malt  from  clotting.  When  the  wa- 
ter is  poured  on  too  hot,  it  sets  the 
malt,  and  closes  the  body  of  the 
grain,  instead  of  opening  it  so  as  to 
dissolve  in  the  liquor.  Cover  up  the 
mash  tub  close  to  compress  the 
steam,  and  prevent  the  liquid  from 
evaporating.  Let  the  wort  stand 
an  hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours  af- 
ter mashing,  and  then  let  the  liquor 
run  off  into  a  vessel  prepared  to  re- 
ceive it.  If  at  first  it  runs  thick 
and  discoloured,  draw  off  a  pailful 
or  two,  and  pour  it  back  again  into 
the  mash  tub  till  it  runs  clear.  In 
summer  it  will  be  necessary  to  put 
a  few  hops  into  the  vessel  which  re- 
ceives the  liquor  out  of  the  mash 
tub,  to  prevent  its  turning  sour, 
which  the  heat  of  the  weather  will 
sometimes  endanger.  Let  the  se- 
con^mash  run  out  as  before,  and 


let  the  liquor  stand  an  hour  and  a 
half,  but  never  let  the  malt  be  dry  : 
keep  lading  fresh  liquor  over  it  till 
the  quantity  of  wort  to  be  obtained 
is  extracted,  always  allowing  for 
waste  in  the  boiling.  The  next  con- 
sideration is  boiling  the  wort  when 
obtained.  The  first  copperful  must 
be  boiled  an  hour ;  and  whilst  boil- 
ing, add  the  ingredients  specified 
above,  in  the  second  estimate.  The 
hops  are  now  to  be  boiled  in  the 
wort,  but  are  to  be  carefully  strain- 
ed from  the  first  wort,  in  order  to  be 
boiled  again  in  the  second.  Eight 
pounds  is  the  common  proportion 
to  a  quarter  of  malt ;  but  in  summer 
the  quantity  must  be  varied  from 
eight  to  twelve  pounds,  according 
to  the  heat  of  the  atmosphere.  Af- 
ter the  wort  has  boiled  an  hour, 
lade  it  out  of  the  copper  and  cool 
it.  In  summer  it  should  be  quite 
cold  before  it  is  set  to  work  ;  in 
winter  it  should  be  kept  till  a  slight 
degree  of  warmth  is  perceptible  by 
the  finger.  When  properly  cooled 
set  it  to  work,  by  adding  yeast  in 
proportion  to  the  quantity.  If  con- 
siderable, and  if  wanted  to  work 
quick,  add  from  one  to  two  gallons. 
Porter  requires  to  be  brought  for- 
ward quicker  than  other  malt  liquor : 
let  it  work  till  it  comes  to  a  good 
deep  head,  then  cleanse  it  by  adding 
the  ginger.  The  liquor  is  now  fit 
for  tunning :  fill  the  barrels  full,  and 
let  the  yeast  work  out,  adding  fresh 
liquor  to  fill  them  up  till  they  have 
done  working.  Now  bung  the  bar- 
rels, but  keep  a  watchful  eye  upon 
them  for  some  time,  lest  the  beer 
should  suddenly  ferment  again  and 
burst  them,  which  is  no  uncommon 
accident  where  due  care  is  not 
taken.  The  heat  of  summer,  or  a 
sudden  change  of  weather,  will  oc- 
casion the  same  misfortune,  if  the 
barrels  are  not  watched,  and  eased 
when  they  require  it,  by  drawing  the 
peg.  The  only  part  which  remains 
to  complete  the  brewing,  is  fining 
the  beer.  To  understand  this,  it  is 
199 


LON 


LOV 


necessary  to  remark,  that  London 
porter  is  composed  of  three  different 
sorts  of  malt ;  pale,  brown,  and 
amber.  The  reason  for  using  these 
three  sorts,  is  to  attain  a  peculiar 
flavour  and  colour.  Amber  is  the 
most  wholesome,  and  for  home  brew- 
ing it  is  recommended  to  use  none 
else.  In  consequence  of  the  subtle- 
ness of  the  essentia,  which  keeps 
continually  swimming  in  the  beer, 
porter  requires  a  considerable  body 
of  finings ;  but  should  any  one 
choose  to  brew  without  the  essentia, 
with  amber  malt,  and  with  colour 
only,  the  porter  will  soon  refine  of 
itself.  The  finings  however  are  com- 
posed of  isinglass  dissolved  in  stale 
beer,  till  the  whole  becomes  of  a 
thin  gluey  consistence  like  size.  One 
pint  is  the  usual  proportion  to  a  bar- 
rel, but  sometimes  two,  and  even 
three  are  found  necessary.  Particu- 
lar care  must  be  taken  that  the  beer 
in  which  the  isinglass  is  dissolved, 
be  perfectly  clear,  and  thoroughly 
stale. — By  attending  to  these  di- 
rections, any  person  may  brew  as 
good,  if  not  better  porter,  than  they 
can  be  supplied  with  from  the  pub- 
lic houses.  Many  notions  have  been 
artfully  raised,  that  porter  requires 
to  be  brewed  in  large  quantities, 
and  to  be  long  stored,  to  render  it 
sound  and  strong ;  but  experience 
will  prove  the  falsehood  of  these 
prejudices,  which  have  their  origin 
with  the  ignorant,  and  are  cherished 
by  the  interested.  One  brewing 
under  another  will  afford  ample 
time  for  porter  to  refine  for  nse,  and 
every  person  can  best  judge  of  the 
extent  of  his  own  consumption. 
Porter  is  not  the  better  for  being 
brewed  in  large  quantities,  except 
that  the  same  trouble  which  brews 
a^peck,  will  brew  a  bushel.  This 
mode  of  practice  will  be  found  sim- 
ple und  easy  in  its  operation,  and 
extremely  moderate  in  point  of  trou- 
ble and  expense. 

LONDON  SYLLABUB.     Put  a 
200 


pint  and  a  half  of  port  or  white  wine 
into  a  bowl,  nutmeg  grated,  and  a 
good  deal  of  sugar.  Then  milk  into 
it  near  two  quarts  of  milk,  frothed 
up.  If  the  wine  be  rather  sharp,  it 
will  require  more  for  this  quantity 
of  milk.  In  Devonshire,  clouted 
cream  is  put  on  the  top,  with  pound- 
ed cinnamon  and  su^ar. 

LOOKING  GLASSES.  In  or- 
der to  clean  them  from  the  spots  of 
flies  and  other  stains,  rub  them  over 
with  a  fine  damp  cloth.  Then  polish 
with  a  soft  woollen  cloth,  and  pow- 
der blue. 

LOVE.  As  health  is  materially 
affected  by  the  passions,  it  is  of  some 
consequence  to  observe  their  sepa- 
rate influence,  in  order  to  obviate 
some  of  their  ill  effects.  Love  is  un- 
questionably the  most  powerful,  and 
is  less  under  the  controul  of  the  un- 
derstanding than  any  of  the  rest.  It 
has  a  kind  of  omnipotence  ascribed 
to  it,  which  belongs  not  to  any  other. 
*  Love  is  strong  as  death ;  many 
waters  cannot  quench  it,  neither  can 
the  floods  drown  it.'  Other  passions 
are  necessary  for  the  preservation 
of  the  individual,  but  this  is  neces- 
sary for  the  continuation  of  the  spe- 
cies :  it  was  proper  therefore  that 
it  should  be  deeply  rooted  in  the 
human  breast.  There  is  no  trifling 
with  this  passion  :  when  love  has 
risen  to  a  certain  height,  it  admits 
of  no  other  cure  but  the  possession 
of  its  object,  which  in  this  case 
ought  always  if  possible  to  be  obtain- 
ed. The  ruinous  consequences  arising 
from  disappointment,  which  happen 
almost  every  day,  are  dreadful  to 
relate ;  and  no  punishment  can  be 
too  great  for  those  whose  wilful  con- 
duct becomes  the  occasion  of  such 
catastrophes.  Parents  are  deeply 
laden  with  guilt,  who  by  this  means 
plunge  their  children  into  irretriev- 
able ruin  ;  and  lovers  are  deserving 
of  no  forgiveness,  whose  treacherous 
conduct  annihilates  the  hopes  and 
even  the  existence  of  their  friends. 


MAC 


MAG 


M 


Macaroni.  The  usual  way  of 
preparing  macaroni  is  to  boil  it  in 
milk,  or  weak  veal  broth,  flavoured 
with  salt.  When  tender,  put  it  into 
a  dish  without  the  liquor.  Add  to 
it  some  bits  of  butter  and  grated 
cheese ;  over  the  top  grate  more, 
and  add  a  little  more  butter.  Set 
the  dish  into  a  Dutch  oven  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour,  but  do  not  let  the 
top  become  hard. — Another  way. 
Wash  it  well,  and  simmer  in  half 
milk  and  half  broth,  of  veal  or  mut- 
ton, till  it  is  tender.  To  a  spoonful 
of  this  liquor,  put  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
beaten  in  a  spoonful  of  cream  ;  just 
make  it  hot  to  thicj^en,  but  not  to 
boil.  Spread  it  on  the  macaroni, 
and  then  grate  fine  old  cheese  all 
over,  with  bits  of  butter.  Brown 
the  whole  with  a  salamander. — 
Another.  Wash  the  macaroni,  then 
simmer  it  in  a  little  broth,  with  a 
little  salt  and  pounded  mace.  When 
quite  tender,  take  it  out  of  the  li- 
quor, lay  it  in  a  dish,  grate  a  good 
deal  of  cheese  over,  and  cover  it 
with  fine  grated  bread.  Warm  some 
butter  without  oiling,  and  pour  it 
from  a  boat  through  a  small  earthen 
cullender  all  over  the  crumbs ;  then 
put  the  dish  into  a  Dutch  oven  to 
roast  the  cheese,  and  brown  the 
bread  of  a  fine  colour.  The  bread 
should  be  in  separate  crumbs,  and 
look  light. 

MACARONI  PUDDING.  Sim- 
mer in  a  pint  of  milk,  an  ounce  or 
two  of  the  pipe  sort  of  macaroni, 
and  a  bit  of  lemon  and  cinnamon. 
When  quite  tender,  put  it  into  a 
dish  with  milk,  two  or  three  eggs, 
but  only  one  white.  Add  some  su- 
gar, nutmeg,  a  spoonful  of  peach 
water,  and  the  same  of  raisin  wine. 
Bake  with  a  paste  round  the  edges. 
A  layer  of  orange  marmalade,  or 
raspberry  jam,  in  a  macaroni  pud- 
ding, is  a  great  improvement.  In 
this  case  omit  the  almond  water,  or 


ratifia,  which  Would  otherwise  bd 
wanted  to  give  it  a  flavour. 

MACARONI  SOUP.  Boil  a  pound 
of  the  best  macaroni  in  a  quart  of 
good  stock,  till  it  is  quite  tender. 
Then  take  out  half,  and  put  it  into 
another  stewpot.  Add  some  more 
stock  to  the  remainder,  and  boil  it 
till  all  the  macaroni  will  pulp  through 
a  fine  sieve.  Then  add  together  the 
two  liquors,  a  pint  or  more  of  boil- 
ing cream,  [the  macaroni  that  was 
first  taken  out,  and  half  a  pound  of 
grated  parmesan  cheese.  Make  it 
hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Serve  it 
with  the  crust  of  a  French  roll,  cut 
into  the  size  of  a  shilling. 

MACAROONS.  Blanch  four 
ounces  of  almonds,  and  pound  them 
with  four  spoonfuls  of  orange  water. 
Whisk  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a 
froth,  mix  it  with  the  almonds,  and 
a  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  till  re- 
duced to  a  paste.  Lay  a  sheet  of 
wafer  paper  on  a  tin,  and  put  on  the 
paste  in  little  cakes,  the  shape  of 
macaroons. 

MACKAREL.  Their  season  is 
generally  May,  June,  and  July ; 
but  may  sometimes  be  had  at  an 
earlier  period.  When  green  goose- 
berries are  ready,  their  appearance 
may  at  all  times  be  expected.  They 
are  so  tender  a  fish  that  they  carry 
and  keep  worse  than  any  other  : 
choose  those  that  are  firm  and  bright, 
and  sweet  scented.  After  gutting 
and  cleaning,  boil  them  gently,  and 
serve  with  butter  and  fennel,  or 
gooseberry  sauce.  To  broil  them, 
split  and  sprinkle  with  herbs,  pep- 
per and  salt ;  or  stuff  with  the  samCj 
adding  crumbs  and  chopped  fennel. 

MAGNUM  BONUM  PLUMS. 
Though  very  indifferent  when  eaten 
raw,  this  fruit  makes  an  excellent 
sweetmeat,  or  is  fine  in  the  form 
of  tarts.  Prick  them  with  a  needle 
to  prevent  bursting,  simmer  them 
very  gently  in  a  thin  syrup,  put  them 
D  d  201 


MAH 


MAR 


in  a  china  bowl,  and  when  cold  pour 
the  syrup  over.  Let  them  lie  three 
days,  then  make  a  syrup  of  three 
pounds  of  sugar  to  live  pounds  of 
fruit,  with  no  more  water  than  hangs 
to  large  lumps  of  the  sugar  dipped 
quickly,  and  instantly  brought  out. 
Boil  the  plums  in  this  fresh  syrup, 
after  draining  the  first  from  them. 
Do  them  very  gently  till  they  are 
clear,  and  the  syrup  adheres  to 
them.  Put  them  one  by  one  into 
small  pots,  and  pour  the  liquor  over. 
Reserve  a  little  syrup  in  the  pan  for 
those  intended  to  be  dried,  warm  up 
the  fruit  in  it,  drain  them  out,  and 
put  them  on  plates  to  dry  in  a  cool 
oven.  These  plums  are  apt  to  fer- 
ment, if  not  boiled  in  two  syrups ; 
the  former  will  sweeten  pies,  but 
will  have  too  much  acid  to  keep. 
A  part  may  be  reserved,  with  the 
addition  of  a  little  sugar,  to  do  those 
that  are  dry,  for  they  will  not  re- 
quire to  be  so  sweet  as  if  kept  wet, 
and  will  eat  very  nicely  if  boiled 
like  the  rest.  One  parcel  may  be 
done  after  another,  and  save  much 
sugar,  but  care  must  be  taken  not 
to  break  the  fruit. 

MAHOGANY.  To  give  a  fine  co- 
lour to  mahogany,  let  the  furniture 
be  washed  perfectly  clean  with  vine- 
gar, having  first  taken  out  any  ink 
stains  there  may  be,  with  spirits  of 
salt,  taking  the  greatest  care  to  touch 
the  stained  part  very  slightly,  and 
then  the  spirits  must  be  instantly 
washed  ofi^.  Use  the  following  li- 
quid. Put  into  a  pint  of  cold-drawn 
linseed  oil,  four  pennyworth  of  al- 
kanet  root,  and  two  pennyworth  of 
rose  pink.  Let  it  remain  all  night 
in  an  earthen  vessel,  then  stirring  it 
well,  rub  some  of  it  all  over  the  ma- 
hogany with  a  linen  rag  ;  and  when 
it  has  lain  some  time,  rub  it  bright 
with  linen  cloths.  Dining  tables 
should  be  covered  with  mat,  oil 
cloth,  or  baize,  to  prevent  staining  ; 
and  should  be  instantly  rubbed  when 
the  dishes  are  removed,  while  the 
board  is  still  warm. 
202  , . 


MAIDS.  This  kind  of  fish,  as 
well  as  skate,  requires  to  be  hung 
up  a  day  before  it  is  dressed,  to 
prevent  its  eating  tough.  Maids 
may  either  be  broiled  or  fried  ;  or 
if  a  tolerable  size,  the  middle  part 
may  be  boiled,  and  the  fins  fried. 
They  should  be  dipped  in  egg,  and 
covered  with  crumbs. 

MALT.  This  article  varies  very 
much  in  value,  according  to  the  qua- 
lity of  the  barley,  and  the  mode  of 
manufacture.  When  good  it  is  full 
of  flour,  and  in  biting  a  grain  asun- 
der it  will  easily  separate  ;  the  shell 
will  appear  thin,  and  well  filled  up 
with  flour.  If  it  bite  hard  and  steely, 
the  malt  is  bad.  The  diff'erence  of 
pale,  and  brown  malt  arises  merely 
from  the  different  degrees  of  heat 
employed  in  the  drying :  the  main 
object  is  the  quantity  of  flour.  If 
the  barley  was  light  and  thin,  whe- 
ther from  unripeness,  blight,  or  any 
other  cause,  it  will  not  malt  so  well ; 
but  instead  of  sending  out  its  roots 
in  due  time,  a  part  of  it  will  still  be 
barley.  This  will  appear  by  putting 
a  handful  of  unground  malt  in  cold 
water,  and  stirring  it  about  till  every 
grain  is  wetted  ;  the  good  will  swim, 
and  the  unmalted  barley  sink  to  the 
bottom.  But  if  the  barley  be  well 
malted,  there  is  still  a  variety  in  the 
quality :  for  a  bushel  of  malt  from 
fine,  plump,  heavy  barley,  will  be 
better  than  the  same  quantity  from 
thin  and  light  barley.  Weight  there- 
fore here  is  the  criterion  of  quality  ; 
and  a  bushel  of  malt  weighing  forty- 
five  pounds  is  cheaper  than  any 
other  at  almost  any  price,  supposing 
it  to  be  free  from  unmalted  barley,  for 
the  barley  itself  is  heavier  than  the 
malt.  The  practice  of  mixing  bar- 
ley with  the  malt  on  a  principle  of 
economy,  is  not  to  be  approved  ;  for 
though  it  may  add  a  little  to  the 
strength  of*  the  wort,  it  makes  the 
beer  flat  and  insipid,  and  of  course 
unwholesome. 

MARBLE.  Chimney  pieces,  or 
marble  slabs,  may  be  cleaned  with 


MAR 


MAR 


muriatic  acid,  either  diluted  or  in  a 
pure  state.  If  too  strong,  it  will 
deprive  the  marble  of  its  polish, 
hut  may  be  restored  by  using  a  piece 
of  felt  and  a  little  putty  powdered, 
rubbing  it  on  with  clean  water. 
Another  method  is,  making  a  paste 
of  a  bullock's  gall,  a  gill  of  soap 
lees,  half  a  gill  of  turpentine,  and 
a  little  pipe  clay.  The  paste  is  then 
applied  to  the  marble,  and  suffered 
to  remain  a  day  or  two.  It  is  after- 
wards rubbed  off,  and  applied  a  se- 
cond or  third  time,  to  render  the 
marble  perfectly  clean,  and  give  it 
the  finest  polish. 

MARBLE  CEMENT.  If  by  any 
accident,  marble  or  alabaster  hap- 
pen to  be  broken,  it  may  be  strongly 
cemented  together  in  the  following 
manner.  Melt  two  pounds  of  bees' 
wax,  and  one  pound  of  rosin.  Take 
about  the  same  quantity  of  marble 
or  other  stones  that  require  to  be 
joined,  and  reduce  it  to  a  powder  ; 
stir  it  well  together  with  the  melted 
mixture,  and  knead  the  mass  in  wa- 
ter, till  the  powder  is  thoroughly  in- 
corporated with  the  wax  and  rosin. 
The  parts  to  be  joined  must  be  heat- 
ed and  made  quite  dry,  and  the 
cement  applied  quite  hot.  Melted 
sulphur,  laid  on  fragments  of  stone 
previously  heated,  will  make  a  firm 
and  durable  cement.  Little  defi- 
ciencies in  stones  or  corners  that 
have  been  stripped  or  broken  off, 
may  be  supplied  with  some  of  the 
stone  powdered  and  mixed  with 
melted  sulphur  :  but  care  must  be 
taken  to  have  both  parts  properly 
heated. 

MARBLE  PAPER.  For  marbling 
books  or  paper,  dissolve  four  ounces 
of  gum  arabac  in  two  quarts  of  wa- 
ter, and  pour  it  into  a  broad  vessel. 
Mix  several  colours  with  water  in 
separate  shells  :  with  small  brushes 
peculiar  to  each  colour,  sprinkle 
and  intermix  them  on  the  surface  of 
the  gum  water,  and  curl  them  with 
a  stick  so  as  to  form  a  variety  of 
streaks.     The    edges    of    a    book 


pressed  close  may  then  be  slightly 
dipped  in  the  colours  on  the  surface 
of  the  water,  and  they  will  take  the 
impression  of  the  mixture.  The 
edges  may  then  be  glazed  with  the 
white  of  an  egg,  and  the  colours 
will  remain.  A  sheet  of  paper  may 
be  marbled  in  the  same  way. 

MARBLE  STAINS.  To  take 
stains  out  of  marble,  make  a  tolera- 
bly thick  mixture  of  unslaked  lime 
finely  powdered,  with  some  strong 
soap-l^y.  Spread  it  instantly  over 
the  marble  with  a  painter's  brush, 
and  in  two  month's  time  wash  it  off 
perfectly  clean.  Prepare  a  fine 
thick  lather  of  soft  soap,  boiled  in 
soft  water ;  dip  a  brush  in  it,  and 
scour  the  marble  well  with  powder. 
Clear  off  the  soap,  and  finish  with 
a  smooth  hard  brush  till  the  stains 
are  all  removed.  After  a  very  good 
rubbing,  the  'marble  will  acquire  a 
beautiful  polish.  If  the  marble  has 
been  injured  by  iron  stains,  take  an 
equal  quantity  of  fresh  spirits  of 
vitriol  and  lemon  juice.  Mix  them 
in  a  bottle,  shake  it  well,  and  wet  the 
spots.  Rub  with  a  soft  linen  cloth, 
and  in  a  few  minutes  they  will  dis- 
appear. 

MARBLE  VEAL.  The  meat  is 
prepared  in  the  same  way  as  potted 
beef  or  veal.  Then  beat  up  a  boiled 
tongue,  or  slices  of  ham,  with  but- 
ter, white  pepper,  and  pounded 
mace.  Put  a  layer  of  veal  in  the 
pot,  then  stick  in  pieces  of  tongue 
or  ham,  fill  up  the  spaces  with  veal, 
and  pour  clarified  butter  over  it. 

MARKING  INK.  Mix  two  drams 
of  the  tincture  of  galls  with  one  dram 
of  lunar  caustic,  and  for  marking  of 
linen,  use  it  with  a  pen  as  common 
ink.  The  cloth  must  first  be  wetted 
in  a  strong  solution  of  salt  of  tartar, 
and  afterwards  dried,  before  any 
attempt  be  made  to  write  upon  it. 
A  beautiful  red  ink  may  also  be  pre- 
pared for  this  purpose  by  mixing- 
half  an  ounce  of  vermillion,  and  a 
dram  of  the  salt  of  steel,  with  as 
much  linseed  oil  as  Mf*ll  make  it  o^ 

U  2oa 


MAR 


ME  A 


a  proper  consistency,  either  to  use 
with  a  pen  or  a  hair  pencil.  Other 
colours  may  be  made  in  the  same 
way,  by  substituting  the  proper  in- 
gredients instead  of  vermiUion. 

MANGOES.  Cut  off  the  tops  of 
some  large  green  cucumbers,  take 
out  the  seeds,  and  wipe  them  dry. 
Fill  them  with  mustard-seed,  horse- 
radish, sliced  onion,  ginger,  and 
whole  pepper.  Sow  on  the  tops, 
put  the  mangoes  into  ajar,  cover 
them  with  boiling  vinegar,  and  do 
them  the  same  as  any  other  pickle. 
Melons  are  done  in  the  same  way. 

MARIGOLD  WINE.  Boil  three 
pounds  and  a  half  of  lump  sugar  in 
a  gallon  of  water,  put  in  a  gallon  of 
marigold  flowers,  gathered  dry  and 
picked  from  the  stalks,  and  then 
make  it  as  for  cowslip  wine.  If  the 
flowers  be  gathered  only  a  few  at  a 
time,  measure  them  when  they  are 
picked,  and  turn  and  dry  them  in 
the  shade.  When  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity is  prepared,  put  them  into  a 
barrel,  and  pour  the  sugar  and  wa- 
ter upon  them.  Put  a  little  brandy 
into  the  bottles,  when  the  wine  is 
drawn  off. 

MARMALADE.  For  a  cough  or 
cold,  take  six  ounces  of  Malaga 
raisins,  and  beat  them  to  a  fine 
paste,  with  the  same  quantity  of 
sugarcandy.  Add  an  ounce  of  the 
conserve  of  roses,  twenty-five  drops 
of  oil  of  vitriol,  and  twenty  drops  of 
oil  of  sulphur.  Mix  them  well  to- 
gether, und  take  a  small  tea-spoonful 
night  and  morning. 

MARROW  BONES.  Cover  the 
top  of  them  with  a  floured  cloth, 
boil  and  serve  them  with  dry  toast. 

MARSHMALLOW  OINTMENT. 
Take  half  a  pound  of  marshmallow 
roots,  three  ounces  of  linseed,  and 
three  ounces  of  fenugreek  seed  ; 
bruise  and  boil  them  gently  half  an 
hour  in  a  quart  of  water,  and  then 
add  two  quarts  of  sweet  oil.  Boil 
them  together  till  the  water  is  all 
evaporated*,  and  strain  off  the  oil. 
Add  a  pound  of  bees'  wax,  half  a 


pound  of  yellow  rosin,  and  two 
ounces  of  common  turpentine.  Melt 
them  together  over  a  slow  fire,  and 
keep  stirring  till  the  ointment  is 
cold. 

MASHED  PARSNIPS.  Boil  the 
roots  tender,  after  they  have  been 
wiped  clean.  Scrape  them,  and 
mash  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  little 
cream,  a  good  piece  of  butter,  pep- 
ViPi*  Rno  sf^lf 

MASHED  POTATOES.  Boil  the 
potatoes,  peel  them,  and  reduce 
them  to  paste.  Add  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  milk  to  two  pounds  weight, 
a  little  salt,  and  two  ounces  of  but- 
ter, and  stir  it  all  well  together  over 
the  tire.  They  may  either  be  served 
up  in  this  state,  or  in  scallops,  or 
put  on  the  dish  in  a  form,  and  th^ 
top  browned  with  a  salamander.      « 

MATTRASSES.  Cushions,  mat-' 
trasses,  and  bed  clothes  stuffed  with 
wool,  are  particularly  liable  to  be 
impregnated  with  what  is  offensive 
and  injurious,  from  persons  who 
have  experienced  putrid  and  inflam- 
matory fevers,  and  cannot  therefore 
be  too  carefully  cleaned,  carded, 
and  washed.  It  would  also  be  pro- 
per frequently  to  fumigate  them  with 
vinegar  or  muriatic  gas.  If  these 
articles  be  infested  with  insects,  dis- 
solve a  pound  and  a  half  of  alum, 
and  as  much  cream  of  tartar,  in 
three  pints  of  boiling  water.  Mix 
this  solution  in  three  gallons  of  cold 
water,  immerse  the  wool  in  it  for 
several  days,  and  then  let  it  be 
washed  and  dried.  This  operatiou 
will  prevent  the  insects  from  attack- 
ing it  in  future. 

MEAD.  Dissolve  thirty  pounds 
of  honey  in  thirteen  gallons  of  wa- 
ter; boil  and  skim  it  well.  Then 
add  of  rosemary,  thyme,  bay  leaves, 
and  sweetbriar,  about  a  handful  al- 
together. Boil  the  whole  for  an 
hour,  and  put  it  into  a  tub,  with  two 
or  three  handfuls  of  ground  malt. 
Stir  it  till  it  is  about  blood  warm, 
then  strain  it  through  a  cloth,  and 
return  it  into  the  tub.     Cut  a  toast, 


ME  A 


MEA 


spread  it  over  with  good  ale  yeast, 
and  put  it  into  the  tub.  When  the 
liquor  has  sufficiently  fermented, 
put  it  into  a  cask.  Take  an  ounce 
and  a  half  each  of  cloves,  mace, 
and  nutmegs,  and  an  ounce  of  sliced 
ginger.  Bruise  the  spices  ;  tie  them 
up  in  a  cloth,  and  hang  it  in  the  ves- 
sel, which  must  be  stopped  up  close 
for  use. — Another  way.  Put  four 
or  five  pounds  of  honey  into  a  gal- 
lon of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  con- 
tinue to  boil  an  hour  and  a  half. 
Skim  it  quite  clean,  put  in  the  rinds 
of  three  or  four  lemons,  and  two 
ounces  of  hops  sewed  up  in  a  bag. 
When  cold,  put  the  liquor  into  a 
cask,  stop  it  up  close,  and  let  it 
stand  eight  or  nine  months. 

MEASLES.  In  general,  all  that 
is  needful  in  the  treatment  of  this 
complaint  is  to  keep  the  body  open 
t)y  means  of  tamarinds,  manna,  or 
other  gentle  laxatives  ;  and  to  sup- 
ply the  patient  frequently  with  bar- 
ley water,  or  linseed  tea  sweetened 
with  honey.  Bathe  the  feet  in  warm 
water ;  and  if  there  be  a  disposition 
to  vomit,  it  ought  to  be  promoted 
by  drinking  a  little  camomile  tea. 
If  the  disorder  appear  to  strike  in- 
ward, the  danger  may  be  averted  by 
applying  blisters  to  the  arms  and 
legs,  and  briskly  rubbing  the  whole 
body  with  warm  flannels. 

MEAT.  In  all  sorts  of  provisions, 
the  best  of  the  kind  goes  the  far- 
thest ;  it  cuts  out  with  most  ad- 
vantage, and  affords  most  nourish- 
ment. Round  of  beef,  fillet  of  veal, 
and  leg  of  mutton,  are  joints  that 
bear  a  higher  price;  but  as  they 
have  more  solid  meat,  they  deserve 
the  preference.  Those  joints  how- 
ever which  are  inferior,  may  be 
dressed  as  palatably ;  and  being 
cheaper,  they  should  be  bought  in 
turn  ;  for  when  weighed  with  the 
prime  pieces,  it  makes  the  price  of 
these  come  lower.  In  loins  of  meat, 
the  long  pipe  that  runs  by  the  bone 
should  be  taken  out,  as  it  is  apt  to 


taint ;  as  also  the  kernels  of  beef. 
Bumps  and  edgebones  of  beef  are 
often  bruised  by  the  blows  which  the 
drovers  give  the  beasts,  and  the  part 
that  has  been  struck  always  taints ; 
these  joints  therefore  when  bruised 
should  not  be  purchased.  And  as 
great  loss  is  often  sustained  by  the 
spoiling  of  meat,  after  it  is  pur- 
chased, the  best  way  to  prevent 
this  is  to  examine  it  well,  wipe  it 
every  day,  and  put  some  pieces  of 
charcoal  over  it.  If  meat  is  brought 
from  a  distance  in  warm  weather, 
the  butcher  should  be  desired  to 
cover  it  close,  and  bring  it  early  in 
the  morning,  to  prevent  its  being  fly- 
blown.— All  meat  should  be  washed 
before  it  is  dressed.  If  for  boiling, 
the  colour  will  be  better  for  the 
soaking ;  but  if  for  roasting,  it 
should  afterwards  be  dried.  Par- 
ticular care  must  be  taken  that  the 
pot  be  well  skimmed  the  moment  it 
boils,  otherwise  the  foulness  will  be 
dispersed  over  the  meat.  The  more 
soups  or  broth  are  skimmed,  the  bet- 
ter and  cleaner  they  will  be.  Boiled 
meat  should  first  be  well  floured, 
and  then  put  in  while  the  water  is 
cold.  Meat  boiled  quick  is  sure  to 
be  hard  ;  but  care  must  be  taken, 
that  in  boiling  slow  it  does,  not  stop, 
or  the  meat  will  be  underdone.  If 
the  steam  be  kept  in,  the  water  will 
not  be  much  reduced  ;  but  if  this 
be  desirable,  the  cover  must  be  re- 
moved. As  to  the  length  of  time 
required  for  roasting  and  boiling, 
the  size  of  the  joint  must  direct,  as 
also  the  strength  of  the  fire,  and  the 
nearness  of  the  meat  to  it.  In  boil- 
ing, attention  must  be  paid  to  the 
progress  it  makes,  which  should  be 
regular  and  slow.  For  every  pound 
of  meat,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or 
twenty  minutes  is  generally  allowed, 
according  as  persons  choose  to  have 
it  well  or  underdone.  In  preparing 
a  joint  for  roasting,  care  must  be 
taken  not  to  run  the  spit  through  the 
best  parts  of  the  meat,  and  that  no 
•205 


MEL 


MIC 


black  stains  appear  upon  it  at  the 
time  of  serving. 

MEAT  SAUCE.  Put  to  a  clean 
anchovy,  a  glass  of  port  wine,  a  lit- 
tle strong  broth,  a  sliced  shalot, 
some  nutmeg,  and  the  juice  of  a  Se- 
ville orange.  Stew  them  together, 
and  mix  it  with  the  gravy  that  runs 
from  the  meat. 

MEAT  SCREEN.  This  is  a  great 
saver  of  coals,  and  should  be  suffi- 
ciently large  to  guard  what  is  roast- 
ing from  currents  of  air.  It  should 
be  placed  on  wheels,  have  a  flat  top, 
and  not  be  less  than  about  three 
feet  and  a  half  wide,  with  shelves 
in  it,  about  one  foot  deep.  It  will 
then  answer  all  the  purposes  of  a 
large  Dutch  oven,  a  plate  warmer, 
and  a  hot  hearth.  Some  are  made 
with  a  door  behind,  which  is  conve- 
nient ;  but  the  great  heat  to  which 
they  are  exposed  soon  shrinks  the 
materials,  and  the  currents  of  air 
through  the  cracks  cannot  be  pre- 
vented. Those  without  a  door  are 
therefore  best. 

MEDLEY  PIE.  Cut  into  small 
pieces  some  fat  pork,  or  other  meat 
underdone,  and  season  it  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Cover  the  sides  of  the 
dish  with  common  crust,  put  in  a 
layer  of  sliced  apples  with  a  little 
sugar,  then  a  layer  of  meat,  and  a 
layer  of  sliced  onions,  till  the  dish 
is  full.  Put  a  thick  crust  over  it, 
and  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven.  Cur- 
rants or  scalded  gooseberries  may 
be  used  instead  of  apples,  and  the 
onions  omitted. 

MELON  FLUMMERY.  Put 
plenty  of  bitter  almonds  into  some 
stifi^"  flummery,  and  make  it  of  a 
pale  green  with  spinach  juice.  When 
it  becomes  as  thick  as  cream,  wet 
the  melon  mould,  and  put  the  flum- 
mery into  it.  Put  a  pint  of  calf's 
foot  jelly  into  a  bason,  and  let  it 
stand  till  the  next  day  :  then  turn 
out  the  melon,  and  lay  it  in  the  midst 
of  the  bason  of  j^lly.  Fill  up  the 
bason  with  jelly  beginning  to  set, 
206 


and  let  it  stand  all  night.  Turn  it 
out  the  next  day,  the  same  as  for 
fruit  in  jelly :  make  a  garland  of 
flowers,  and  place  it  on  the  jelly. 

MELON  MANGOES,  there  is 
a  particular  sort  for  preserving, 
which  must  be  carefully  distinguish- 
ed. Cut  a  square  small  piece  out 
of  one  side,  and  through  that  take 
out  the  seeds,  and  mix  with  them 
mustard-seed  and  shred  garlic. 
Stufl"  the  melon  as  full  as  the  space 
will  allow,  replace  the  square  piece, 
and  bind  it  up  with  fine  packthread, 
boil  a  good  quantity  of  vinegar,  to 
allow  for  wasting,  with  peppercorns, 
salt,  and  ginger.  Pour  the  liquor 
boiling  hot  over  the  mangoes  four 
successive  days  ;  and  on  the  last 
day  put  flour  of  mustard,  and  scraped 
horseradish  into  the  vinegar  just  as 
it  boils  up.  Observe  that  there  is 
plenty  of  vinegar  before  it  is  stop- 
ped down,  for  pickles  are  soon 
spoiled  if  not  well  covered.  Also 
the  greater  number  of  times  that 
boiling  vinegar  is  poured  over  them, 
the  sooner  they  will  be  ready  for 
eating.  Mangoes  should  be  pickled 
soon  after  they  are  gathered.  Large 
cucumbers,  called  green  turley,  pre- 
pared as  mangoes,  are  very  excel- 
lent, and  come  sooner  to  table. 

MELTED  BUTTER.  Though  a 
very  essential  article  for  the  table, 
it  is  seldom  well  prepared.  Mix  on 
a  trencher,  in  the  proportion  of  a 
tea-spoonful  of  flour  to  four  ounces 
of  the  best  butter.  Put  it  into  a 
saucepan,  and  two  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  hot  water ;  boil  it  quick 
for  a  minute,  and  shake  it  all  the 
time.  Milk  used  instead  of  water, 
requires  rather  less  butter,  and  looks 
whiter. 

MICE.  The  poisonous  substances 
generally  prepared  for  the  destruc- 
tion of  mice  are  attended  with  dan- 
ger, and  the  use  of  them  should  by 
all  means  be  avoided.  Besides  the 
common  traps,  baited  with  cheese, 
the  following  remedy  will  be  found 


MI  C 


M  IL 


both  safe  and  efficacious.  Take  a 
few  handfuls  of  wheat  flour,  or  raalt 
meal,  and  knead  it  into  a  dough. 
Let  it  grow  sour  in  a  warm  place, 
mix  with  it  some  fine  iron  filings, 
form  the  mass  into  small  balls,  and 
put  them  into  the  holes  frequented 
by  the  mice.  On  eating  this  pre- 
paration, they  are  inevitably  killed. 
Cats,  owls,  or  hedgehogs,  would  be 
highly  serviceable  in  places  infested 
with  mice.  An  effectual  mousetrap 
may  be  made  in  the  following  man- 
ner. Take  a  plain  four  square 
trencher,  and  put  into  the  two  con- 
trary corners  of  it  a  large  pin,  or 
piece  of  knitting  needle.  Then  take 
two  sticks  about  a  yard  long,  and 
lay  them  on  the  dresser,  with  a  notch 
cut  at  each  end  of  the  sticks,  placing 
the  two  pins  on  the  notches,  so 
that  one  corner  of  the  trencher  may 
lie  about  an  inch  on  the  dresser  or 
shelf  that  the  mice  come  to.  The 
opposite  corner  must  be  baited  with 
some  butter  and  oatmeal  plastered 
on  the  trencher ;  and  when  the  mice 
run  towards  the  butter,  it  will  tip 
them  into  a  glazed  earthen  vessel 
full  of  water,  which  should  be  placed 
underneath  for  that  purpose.  To 
prevent  the  trencher  from  tipping 
over  so  as  to  lose  its  balance,  it  may 
be  fastened  to  the  shelf  or  dresser 
with  a  thread  and  a  little  sealing 
wax,  to  restore  it  to  its  proper  po- 
sition. To  prevent  their  devasta- 
tions in  barns,  care  should  be  taken 
to  lay  beneath  the  floor  a  stratum  of 
sharp  flints,  fragments  of  glass  mix- 
ed with  sand,  or  broken  cinders.  If 
the  floors  were  raised  on  piers  of 
brick,  about  fifteen  inches  above  the 
ground,  so  that  dogs  or  cats  might 
have  a  free  passage  beneath  the 
building,  it  would  prevent  the  ver- 
min from  harbouring  there,  and  tend 
greatly  to  preserve  the  grain.  Field 
mice  are  also  very  destructive  in  the 
fields  and  gardens,  burrowing  un- 
der the  ground,  and  digging  up  the 
earth  when  newly  sown.  Their  ha- 
bitations may  be  discovered  by  the 


small  mounds  of  earth  that  are  raised 
near  the  entrance,  or  by  the  pas- 
sages leading  to  their  nests  ;  and  by 
following  these,  the  vermin  may 
easily  be  destroyed.  To  prevent 
early  peas  being  eaten  by  the  mice, 
soak  the  seed  a  day  or  two  in  train 
oil  before  it  is  sown,  which  will  pro- 
mote its  vegetation,  and  render  the 
peas  so  obnoxious  to  the  mice,  that 
they  will  not  eat  them.  The  tops  of 
furze,  chopped  and  thrown  into  the 
drills,  when  the  peas  are  s6wn,  will 
be  an  effectual  preventive.  Sea 
sand  strewed  thick  on  the  surface 
of  the  ground,  round  the  plants  liable 
to  be  attacked  by  the  mice,  will  have 
the  same  eff'ect. 

MILDEW.  To  remove  stains  in 
linen  occasioned  by  mildew,  mix 
some  soft  soap  and  powdered  starch, 
half  as  much  salt,  and  the  juice  of  a 
lemon.  Lay  it  on  the  part  on  both 
sides  with  a  painter's  brush,  and  let 
it  lie  on  the  grass  day  and  night  till 
the  stain  disappears. 

MILK  BUTTER.  This  article  is 
principally  made  in  Cheshire,  where 
the  whole  of  the  milk  is  churned 
without  being  skimmed.  In  the  sum- 
mer time,  immediately  after  milk- 
ing, the  meal  is  put  to  cool  in  earthen 
jars  till  it  become  sufficiently  co- 
agulated, and  has  acquired  a  slight 
degree  of  acidity,  enough  to  under- 
go the  operation  of  churning.  During 
the  summer,  this  is  usually  perform- 
ed in  the  course  of  one  or  two  days. 
In  order  to  forward  the  coagulation 
in  the  winter,  the  milk  is  placed  near 
the  fire ;  but  in  summer,  if  it  has 
not  been  sufficiently  cooled  before 
it  is  added  to  the  former  meal,  or  if 
it  has  been  kept  too  close,  and  be 
not  churned  shortly  after  it  has  ac- 
quired the  necessary  degree  of  con- 
sistence, a  fermentation  will  ensue  ; 
in  which  case  the  butter  becomes 
rancid,  and  the  milk  does  not  yield 
that  quantity  which  it  would,  if 
churned  in  proper  time.  This  also 
7s  the  case  in  winter,  when  the  jars 
have  been  placed  too  near  the  fire^ 
207 


MIL 


MIL 


and  the  milk  nitis  entirely  to  whey. 
MiXk  butter  is  in  other  respects  made 
like  the  common  butter. 

MILK  AND  CREAM.  In  hot 
weather,  when  it  is  difficult  to  pre- 
serve milk  from  becoming  sour,  and 
spoiling  the  cream,  it  may  be  kept 
perfcfCtly  sweet  by  scalding  the  new 
milk  very  gently,  without  boiling, 
and  setting  it  by  in  the  earthen  dish 
or  pan  that  it  is  done  in.  This  me- 
thod is  pursued  in  Devonshire,  for 
making  of  butter,  and  for  eating  ; 
and  it  would  answer  equally  well  in 
small  quantities  for  the  use  of  the 
tea  table.  Cream  already  skimmed 
may  be  kept  twenty-four  hours  if 
scalded,  without  sugar ;  and  by  add- 
ing as  much  pounded  lump  sugar  as 
shall  make  it  pretty  sweet,  it  will 
be  good  two  days,  by  keeping  it  in 
a  cool  place. 

MILK  PORRIDGE.  Make  a  fine 
gruel  of  half  grits  well  boiled,  strain 
it  off,  add  warm  or  cold  milk,  and 
serve  with  toasted  bread. 

MILK  PUNCH.  Pare  six  oranges 
and  six  lemons  as  thin  as  possible, 
and  grate  them  afterwards  with  su- 
gar to  extract  the  flavour.  Steep 
the  peels  in  a  bottle  of  rum  or  bran- 
dy, stopped  close  twenty-four  hours. 
Squeeze  the  fruit  on  two  pounds  of 
sugar,  add  to  it  four  quarts  of  wa- 
ter, and  one  of  new  milk  boiling  hot. 
Stir  the  rum  into  the  above,  and  run 
it  through  a  jelly  bag  till  perfectly 
clear.  Bottle  and  cork  it  close  im- 
mediately. 

MILK  OF  ROSES.  Mix  an  ounce 
of  oil  of  almonds  with  a  pint  of  rose 
water,  and  then  add  ten  drops  of  the 
oil  of  tartar. 

MILK  SOUP.  Boil  a  pint  of 
milk  with  a  little  salt,  cinnamon, 
and  sugar.  Lay  thin  slices  of  bread 
in  a  dish,  pour  over  them  a  little  of 
the  milk,  and  keep  them  hot  over  a 
stove  without  burning.  When  the 
soup  is  ready,  beat  up  the  yolks  of 
five  or  six  eggs,  and  add  them  to  the 
milk.  Stir  it  over  the  fire  till  it 
thickens,  take  it  off  before  it  curdles, 
208 


and  pour  it  upon  the  breads  in  the 
dish. 

MILKING.  Cows  should  be 
milked  three  times  a  day  in  the  sum- 
mer, if  duly  fed,  and  twice  in  the 
winter.  Great  care  should  be  taken 
to  drain  the  milk  completely  from 
the  udder ;  for  if  any  be  suffered  to, 
remain,  the  cow  will  give  less  every 
meal,  till  at  length  she  becomes  dry 
before  her  proper  time,  and  the  next 
season  she  will  scarcely  give  a  suf- 
ficient quantity  of  milk  to  pay  the 
expences  of  her  keeping.  The  first 
milk  drawn  from  a  cow  is  also  thin- 
ner, and  of  an  inferior  quality  to 
that  which  is  afterwards  obtained  : 
and  this  richness  increases  progres- 
sively, to  the  very  last  drop  that  can 
be  drawn  from  the  udder.  If  a  cow's 
teats  be  scratched  or  wounded,  her 
milk  will  be  foul,  and  should  not 
be  mixed  with  that  of  other  cows, 
but  given  to  the  pigs.  In  warm  wea- 
ther, the  milk  should  remain  in  the 
pail  till  nearly  cold,  before  it  is 
strained  ;  but  in  frosty  weather  this 
should  be  done  immediately,  and  a 
small  quantity  of  boiling  water  mix- 
ed with  it.  This  will  produce  plenty 
of  cream,  especially  in  trays  of  a 
large  surface.  As  cows  a^re  some- 
times troublesome  to  milk,  and  in 
danger  of  contracting  bad  habits, 
they  always  require  to  be  treated 
with  great  gentleness,  especially 
when  young,  or  while  their  teats  are 
tender.  In  this  case  the  udder  ought 
to  be  fomented  with  warm  water  be- 
fore milking,  and  the  cow  soothed 
with  mild  treatment ;  otherwise  she 
will  be  apt  to  become  stubborn  and 
unruly,  and  retain  her  milk  ever  af- 
ter. A  cow  will  never  let  down  her 
milk  freely  to  the  person  she  dreads 
or  dislikes. 

MILLET  PUDDING.  Wash  three 
spoonfuls  of  the  seed,  put  it  into  a 
dish  with  a  crust  round  the  edge, 
pour  over  it  as  much  new  milk  as 
will  nearly  fill  the  dish,  two  ounces 
of  butter  warmed  with  it,  sugar, 
shred   lemon   peel,  and   a  dust  of 


MIN 


MIT 


ginger  and  nutmeg.  As  you  put  it 
in  the  oven,  stir  in  two  beaten  eggs, 
and  a  spoonful  of  shred  suet. 

MINCE  PIES.  Of  scraped  beef, 
free  from  skin  and  strings,  weigh 
two  pounds,  of  suet  picked  and 
chopped  four  pounds,  and  of  cur- 
rants nicely  cleaned  and  perfectly 
dry,  six  pounds.  Then  add  three 
pounds  of  chopped  apples,  the  peel 
and  juice  of  two  lemons,  a  pint  of 
sweet  wine,  a  nutmeg,  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  cloves,  the  same  of  mace, 
and  pimento,  in  the  finest  powder. 
Mix  the  whole  well  together,  press 
it  into  a  deep  pan,  and  keep  it  co- 
vered in  a  dry  cool  place.  A  little 
citron,  orange,  and  lemon  peel, 
should  be  put  into  each  pie  when 
made.  The  above  quantity  of  mince 
meat  may  of  course  be  reduced,  in 
equal  proportions,  for  small  families. 
— Mince  pies  without  meat,  are 
made  in  the  following  manner.  Pare, 
core,  and  mince  six  pounds  of  ap- 
ples ;  shred  three  pounds  of  fresh 
suet,  and  stone  three  pounds  of  rai- 
sins minced.  Add  to  these,  a  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  each  of  mace  and 
cinnamon,  and  eight  cloves,  all  finely 
powdered.  Then  three  pounds  of 
the  finest  powder  sugar,  three  quar- 
ters of  an  ounce  of  salt,  the  rinds  of 
four  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons, 
half  a  pint  of  port,  and  half  a  pint 
of  brandy.  Mix  well  together,  and 
put  the  ingredients  into  a  deep  pan. 
Prepare  four  pounds  of  Currants, 
well  washed  and  dried,  and  add  them 
when  the  pies  are  made,  with  some 
candied  fruit. 

MINCED  BEEF.  Shred  fine  the 
underdone  part,  with  some  of  the 
fat.  Put  it  into  a  small  stewpan 
with  some  onion,  or  a  very  small 
t  quantity  of  shalot,  a  little  water, 
pepper  and  salt.  Boil  it  till  the 
onion  is  quite  soft ;  then  put  some 
of  the  gravy  of  the  meat  to  it,  and 
the  mince,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
Prepare  a  small  hot  dish  with  sip- 
pets of  bread,  mix  a  large  spoonful 
of  vinegar  with  the  mince,  and  pour 


it  into  the  dish.  If  shalot  vinegar 
is  used,  the  raw  onion  and  shalot 
may  be  dispensed  with. 

MINCED  COLLOPS.  Chop  and 
mince  some  beef  very  small,  and  sea- 
son it  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  it, 
in  its  raw  state,  into  small  jars,  and 
pour  on  the  top  some  clarified  but- 
ter. When  to  be  used,  put  the  cla- 
rified butter  into  a  fryingpan,  and 
fry  some  sliced  onions.  Add  a  lit- 
tle water  to  it,  put  in  the  minced 
meat,  and  it  will  be  done  in  a  few 
minutes.  This  is  a  favourite  Scotch 
dish,  and  few  families  are  without  it. 
It  keeps  well,  and  is  always  ready 
for  an  extra  dish. 

MINCED  VEAL.  Cut  some  cold 
veal  as  fine  as  possible,  but  do  not 
chop  it.  Put  to  it  a  very  little  le- 
mon-peel shred,  two  grates  of  nut- 
meg, some  salt,  and  four  or  five 
spoonfuls  either  of  weak  broth,  milk, 
or  water.  Simmer  these  gently  with 
the  meat,  adding  a  bit  of  butter  rub- 
bed in  flour,  but  take  care  not  to  let 
it  boil.  Put  sippets  of  thin  toasted 
bread,  cut  into  a  three-cornered 
shape,  round  the  dish. 

MINT  SAUCE.  Pick  and  wash 
the  mint  clean,  and  chop  it  fine. 
Put  it  into  a  small  bason,  and  mix 
it  with  sugar  and  vinegar. 

MINT  VINEGAR.  As  fresh  mint 
is  not  at  all  times  to  be  had,  a  wel- 
come substitute  will  be  found  in  the 
preparation  of  mint  vinegar.  Dry 
and  pound  half  an  ounce  of  mint 
seed,  pour  upon  it  a  quart  of  the 
best  vinegar,  let  it  steep  ten  days, 
and  shake  it  up  every  day.  This 
will  be  useful  in  the  early  season  of 
house  lamb. 

MITES.  Though  they  princip^ 
affect  cheese,  there  are  several  spe- 
cies of  this  insect  which  breed  in 
flour  and  other  eatables,  and  do 
considerable  injury.  The  most  ef- 
fectual method  of  expelling  them  is 
to  place  a  few  nutmegs  in  the  sack 
or  bin  containing  the  flour,  the  odour 
of  which  is  insupportable  to  mites  ; 
and  they  will  quickly  be  removed, 

Le  209 


MOC 


MO  C 


without  the  meal  acquhing  any  un- 
pleasant flavour.  Thick  branches 
of  the  lilac,  or  the  elder  tree,  peeled 
and  put  into  the  flour,  will  hare  the 
same  eff'ect.  Quantities  of  the 
largest  sized  ants,  scattered  about 
cheese-rooms  and  granaries,  would 
presently  devour  all  the  mites,  with- 
out doing  any  injury. 

MIXED  WINE.  Take  an  equal 
quantity  of  white,  red,  and  black 
currants,  cherries,  and  raspberries  ; 
mash  them,  and  press  the  juice 
through  a  strainer.  Boil  three  pounds 
of  moist  sugar  in  three  quarts  of  wa- 
ter, and  skim  it  clean.  When  cold, 
mix  a  quart  of  juice  with  it,  and  put 
it  into  a  barrel  that  will  just  hold  it. 
Put  in  the  bung,  and  after  it  has 
stood  a  week,  close  it  up,  and  let  it 
stand  three  or  four  months.  When 
the  wine  is  put  into  the  barrel,  add 
a  little  brandy  to  it. 

MOCK  BRAWN.  Boil  two  pair 
of  neat's  feet  quite  tender,  and  pick 
all  the  flesh  off  the  bone.  Boil  the 
belly  piece  of  a  porker  nearly  enough, 
and  bone  it.  Roll  the  meat  of  the 
feet  up  in  the  pork,  tie  it  up  in  a 
cloth  with  tape  round  it,  and  boil 
it  till  it  becomes  very  tender.  Hang 
it  up  in  the  cloth  till  it  is  quite  cold, 
put  it  into  some  souse,  and  keep  it 
for  use. 

MOCK  TURTLE.  Divide  a  calf's 
head  with  the  skin  on,  and  clean  it 
well.  Half  boil  it,  take  all  the  meat 
off  in  square  pieces,  break  the  bones 
of  the  head,  and  boil  them  in  some 
veal  and  beef  broth,  to  add  to  the 
richness.  Fry  some  shalot  in  butter, 
and  dredge  in  flower  ^nough  to 
thicken  the  gravy  ;  stir  this  into  the 
browning,  and  give  it  one  or  two 
boils.  Skim  it  carefully,  and  then 
put  in  the  head  ;  add  a  pint  of  Ma- 
deira, and  simmer  till  the  meat  is 
quite  tender.  About  ten  minutes 
before  serving,  put  in  some  basil, 
tarragon,  chives,  parsley,  cayenne 
pepper,  and  salt;  also  two  spoon- 
fuls of  mushroom  ketchup,  and  one 
of  soy.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
SIO 


into  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup 
upon  it.  Serve  with  forcemeat  balls, 
and  small  eggs. — A  cheaper  way. 
Prepare  half  a  calf's  head  as  above, 
but  without  the  skin.  When  the 
meat  is  cut  off,  break  the  bones,  and 
put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  some 
gravy  made  of  beef  and  veal  bones, 
and  seasoned  with  fried  onions, 
herbs,  mace,  and  pepper.  Have 
ready  prepared  two  or  three  ox- 
palates  boiled  so  tender  as  to  blanch, 
and  cut  into  small  pieces  ;  to  which 
a  cow  heel,  likewise  cut  into  pieces, 
is  a  great  improvement.  Brown 
some  butter,  flour,  and  onion,  and 
pour  the  gravy  to  it ;  then  add  the 
meats  as  above,  and  stew  them  to- 
gether. Add  half  a  pint  of  sherry, 
an  anchovy,  two  spoonfuls  of  walnut 
ketchup,  the  same  of  mushroom 
ketchup,  and  some  chopped  herbs 
as  before.  The  same  sauce  as  be- 
fore.— Another  way.  Put  into  a  pan 
a  knuckle  of  veal,  two  fine  cow  heels, 
two  onions,  a  few  cloves,  pepper- 
corns, berries  of  allspice,  mace,  and 
sweet  herbs.  Cover  them  with  wa  * 
ter,  tie  a  thick  paper  over  the  pan, 
and  set  it  in  an  oven  for  three  hours^ 
When  cold,  take  off  the  fat  very 
nicely,  cut  the  meat  and  feet  into 
bits  an  inch  and  a  half  square,  re- 
move the  bones  and  coarse  parts, 
and  then  put  the  rest  on  to  warm, 
with  a  large  spoonful  of  walnut  and 
one  of  mushroom  ketchup,  half  a 
pint  of  sherry  or  Madeira,  a  little 
mushroom  powder,  and  the  jelly  of 
the  meat.  If  it  want  any  more  sea- 
soning, add  some  when  hot,  and 
serve  with  hard  eggs,  forcemeat 
balls,  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  and  a 
spoonful  of  soy.  Thfs  is  a  very  easy 
way  of  making  an  excellent  dish  of 
mock  turtle. — Another.  Stew  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  scrag  of  mut- 
ton, with  three  pints  of  water  till 
reduced  to  a  quart.  Set  on  the  broth, 
with  a  calf's  foot  and  a  cow  heel ; 
cover  the  stewpan  tight,  and  let  it 
simmer  till  the  meat  can  be  separated 
from  the   bones   in   proper  pieces. 


MOO 


MOR 


Set  it  on  again  with  the  broth,  add- 
ing a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  sherry  or 
Madeira,  a  large  onion,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cayenne,  a  bit  of  lemon 
peel,  two  anchovies,  some  sweet 
herbs,  eighteen  oysters  chopped  fine, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a  little  nutmeg, 
and  the  liquor  of  the  oysters.  Cover 
it  close,  and  simmer  it  three  quar- 
ters of  an  hour.  Serve  with  force- 
meat balls,  and  hard  eggs  in  the 
tureen . — An  excellent  and  very  cheap 
mock  turtle  may  be  made  of  two  or 
three  cow  heels,  baked  with  two 
pounds  and  a  half  of  gravy  beef, 
herbs,  and  other  ingredients  as 
above.  * 

MOLES.  As  these  little  animals 
live  entirely  on  worms  and  insects, 
of  which  they  consume  incalculable 
numbers,  they  may  be  considered 
as  harmless,  and  even  useful,  rather 
than  otherwise  ;  and  it  has  been 
observed  in  fields  and  gardens  where 
the  moles  had  been  caught,  that  they 
afterwards  abounded  with  vermin 
and  insects.  But  when  the  moles 
become  too  numerous,  they  are  hurt- 
ful to  vegetation,  and  require  to  be 
destroyed.  Besides  the  common 
method  of  setting  traps  in  their  sub- 
terraneous passages,  many  might  be 
dug  out  of  the  earth  by  carefully 
watching  their  situation  and  motions 
before  the  rising  of  the  sun,  and 
striking  in  a  spade  behind  them  to 
cut  off  their  retreat.  The  smell  of 
garlic  is  so  offensive  to  them,  that 
if  a  few  heads  of  that  plant  were 
thrust  into  their  runs,  it  would  expel 
them  fi'ora  the  place. 

MOONSHINE  PUDDING.  Put 
into  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of  very 
thin  bread  and  butter,  strewed  over 
with  currants  and  sweetmeats,  and 
so  on  till  the  dish  is  full.  Mix  to- 
gether a  pint  and  a  half  of  cream, 
the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  half  a  grated 
nutmeg,  and  some  sugar.  Pour  the 
mixture  on  the  top  of  the  pudding, 
and  bake  it  three  quarters  of  an 
hour. 

MOOR  FO\VL.     To  dress  moor 


fowl  with  red  cabbage,  truss  the 
game  as  for  boiling.  Set  them  on 
the  fire  with  a  little  soup,  and  let 
them  stew  for  half  an  hour.  Cut  a 
red  cabbage  into  quarters,  add  it  to 
the  moor  if'owl,  season  with  salt  and 
white  pepper,  and  a  little  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour.  A  glass  of 
port  may  be  added,  if  approved. 
Lift  out  the  cabbage,  and  place  it 
neatly  in  the  dish,  with  the  moor 
fowl  on  it.  Pour  the  sauce  over 
them,  and  garnish  with  small  slices 
of  fried  bacon. 

MORELLA  CHERRIES.  When 
the  fruit  is  quite  ripe,  take  off  the 
stalks,  prick  them  with  a  pin,  and 
allow  a  pound  and  a  half  of  lump 
sugar  to  every  pound  of  cherries. 
Reduce  part  of  the  sugar  to  pow- 
der, and  strew  it  over  them.  Next 
day  dissolve  the  remainder  in  half 
a  pint  of  currant  juice,  set  it  over  a 
slow  fire,  put  in  the  cherries  with 
the  sugar,  and  give  them  a  gentle' 
boil.  Take  out  the  cherries  care- 
fully, boil  the  syrup  till  it  is  thick, 
pour  it  upon  the  cherries,  and  tie 
them  down. — Any  other  kind  of 
fruit  may  be  treated  in  the  same 
way,  only  using  such  kind  of  juice 
to  boil  in  the  syrup  as  is  most  suit- 
able to  the  fruit  to  be  preserved.  It, 
is  proper  to  put  apple  jelly  over 
jam  or  preserved  fruit,  or  to  sift 
sugar  over  the  tops  of  the  jars  ;  and 
when  cold,  cover  them  with  brandy 
paper.  If  the  air  be  admitted,  they 
will  not  keep. 

MORELLA  WINE.  Cleanse  from 
the  stalks  sixty  pounds  of  raorella 
cherries,  and  bruise  them  as  to  break 
the  stones.  Press  out  the  juice, 
mix  it  with  six  gallons  of  sherry 
wine,  and  four  gallons  of  warm  wa- 
ter. Powder  separately  an  ounce  of 
nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and  mace,  and 
hang  them  separately  in  small  bags, 
in  the  cask  containing  the  liquor. 
Bung  it  down  ;  and  in  a  few  weeks 
it  will  become  a  deliciously  fla- 
voured Avine. 

MORELS.     In  their  green  state 
2U 


M  U  F 


MUL 


they  have  a  very  rich,  high  flavour, 
and  are  delicious  additions  to  some 
dishes,  or  sent  up  as  a  stew  by  them- 
selves, when  they  are  fresh  and  fine. 
When  dried  they  are  of  very  little 
use,  and  serve  only  to  soak  up  good 
gravy,  from  which  they  take  more 
ilavour  than  they  give. 

MOSS.  To  destroy  moss  on 
trees,  remove  it  with  a  hard  brush 
early  in  the  spring  of  the  year,  and 
wash  the  trees  afterwards  with  urine 
or  soap  suds,  and  plaster  them  with 
cow  dung.  When  a  sort  of  white 
down  appears  on  apple  trees,  clear 
off  the  red  stain  underneath  it,  and 
anoint  the  infected  parts  with  a  mix- 
ture of  train  oil  and  Scotch  snuff, 
which  will  effectually  cure  the  dis- 
ease. 

MOTHS.  One  of  the  most  speedy 
remedies  for  their  complete  extir- 
pation, is  the  smell  of  turpentine, 
whether  it  be  by  sprinkling  it  on 
woollen  stuffs,  or  placing  sheets  of 
paper  moistened  with  it  between 
pieces  of  cloth.  It  is  remarkable 
that  moths  are  never  known  to  in- 
fest wool  unwashed,  or  in  its  natural 
state,  but  always  abandon  the  place 
where  such  raw  material  is  kept. 
Those  persons  therefore  to  whom 
the  smell  of  turpentine  is  offensive, 
may  avail  themselves  of  this  circum- 
stance, and  place  layers  of  undress- 
ed wool  between  pieces  of  cloth,  or 
put  small  quantities  in  the  corners 
of  shelves  and  drawers  containing 
drapery  of  that  description.  This, 
or  shavings  of  the  cedar,  small  slips 
of  Russia  leather,  or  bits  of  cam- 
phor, laid  in  boxes  or  drawers  where 
furs  or  woollen  clothes  are  kept, 
will  effectually  preserve  them  from 
the  ravages  of  the  moth  and  other 
insects. 

MUFFINS.  Stir  together  a  pint 
of  yeast  with  a  pint  and  half  of 
warm  milk  and  water,  and  a  little 
salt.  Strain  it  into  a  quarter  of  a 
peck  of  fine  flour,  knead  it  well,  and 
set  it  an  hour  to  rise.  Pull  it  into 
email  pieces,  roll  it  into  balls  with 
212 


the  hand,  and  keep  them  covered 
up  warm.  Then  spread  them  into 
raufiins,  lay  them  on  tins,  and  bake 
them  ;  and  as  the  bottoms  begin  to 
change  colour,  turn  them  on  the 
other  side.  A  better  sort  may  be 
made  by  adding  two  eggs,  and  two 
ounces  of  butter  melted  in  half  a 
pint  of  milk.  Muffins  should  not 
be  cut,  but  pulled  open. 

MULBERRY  SYRUP.  Put  the 
mulberries  into  a  kettle  of  water, 
and  simmer  them  over  the  fire  till 
the  juice  runs  from  them.  Squeeze 
out  the  juice,  and  add  twice  the 
weight  of  sugar.  Set  it  over  a  slow 
fire,  skim  it  clean,  and  simmer  it 
till  the  sugar  is  quite  dissolved. 

MULBERRY  WINE.  Gather 
mulberries  on  a  dry  day,  when  they 
are  just  changed  from  redness  to  a 
shining  black.  Spread  them  thinly 
on  a  fine  cloth,  or  on  a  floor  or 
table,  for  twenty-four  hours,  and 
then  press  them.  Boil  a  gallon  of 
water  with  each  gallon  of  Juice, 
putting  to  every  gallon  of  water  an 
ounce  of  cinnamon  bark,  and  six 
ounces  of  sugarcandy  finely  pow- 
dered. Skim  and  strain  the  water 
when  it  is  taken  off  and  settled,  and 
put  it  to  the  mulberry  juice.  Now 
add  to  every  gallon  of  the  mixture, 
a  pint  of  white  or  Rhenish  wine. 
Let  the  whole  stand  in  a  cask  to  fer- 
ment, for  five  or  six  days.  When 
settled  draw  it  off  into  bottles,  and 
keep  it  cool. 

MULLED  ALE.  Boil  a  pint  of 
good  sound  ale  with  a  little  grated 
nutmeg  and  sugar,  beat  up  three 
eggs,  and  mix  them  with  a  little  cold 
ale.  Then  pour  the  hot  ale  to  it, 
and  return  it  several  times  to  pre- 
vent its  curdling.  Warm  and  stir  it 
till  it  is  thickened,  add  a  piece  of 
butter  or  a  glass  of  brandy,  and 
serve  it  up  with  dry  toast. 

MULLED  WINE.  Boil  some 
spice  in  a  little  water  till  the  flavour 
is  gained,  then  add  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  port,  with  sugar  and  nutmeg. 
Boil    all   together,   and   serve  with 


MUS 


M'US 


toast. — Another  way.  Boil  a  blade 
of  cinnamon  and  some  grated  nut- 
meg a  few  minutes,  in  a  large  tea- 
cupful  of  water.  Pour  to  it  a  pint 
of  port  wine,  add  a  little  sugar,  beat 
it  up,  and  it  will  be  ready.  Good 
home-made  wine  may  be  substituted 
instead  of  port. 

MUMBLED  HARE.  Boil  the 
hare,  but  not  too  much  ;  take  off  the 
flesh,  and  shred  it  very  fine.  Add 
a  little  salt,  nutmeg,  lemon  peel, 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Put  it  in- 
to a  stewpan  with  a  dozen  eggs, 
and  a  pound  of  butter,  and  keep  it 
stirring. 

MUSCLE  PLUM  CHEESE. 
Weigh  six  pounds  of  the  fruit,  bake 
it  in  a  stone  jar,  remove  the  stones, 
and  put  in  the  kernels  after  they  are 
broken  and  picked.  Pour  half  the 
juice  on  two  pounds  and  a  half  of 
Lisbon  sugar ;  when  melted  and 
simmered  a  few  minutes,  skim  it, 
and  add  the  fruit.  Keep  it  doing 
very  gently  till  the  juice  is  much  re- 
duced, but  take  care  to  stir  it  con- 
stantly, to  prevent  its  burning.  Pour 
it  into  small  moulds,  pattipans,  or 
saucers.  The  remaining  juice  may 
serve  to  colour  creams,  or  be  added 
to  a  pie. 

MUSHROOMS.  Before  these 
are  prepared  for  eating,  great  care 
must  be  taken  to  ascertain  that  they 
are  genuine,  as  death  in  many  in- 
stances has  been  occasioned  by 
using  a  poisonous  kind  of  fungus, 
resembling  mushrooms.  The  eat- 
able mushrooms  first  appear  very 
small,  of  a  round  form,  and  on  a  lit- 
tle stalk.  They  grow  very  fast,  and 
both  the  stalk  and  the  upper  part 
are  white.  As  the  size  increases, 
the  under  part  gradually  opens,  and 
shows  a  kind  of  fringed  fur,  of  a 
very  fine  salmon  colour  ;  which  con- 
tinues more  or  less  till  the  mush- 
room has  gained  some  size,  and 
then  it  turns  to  a  dark  brown.  These 
marks  should  be  attended  to,  and 
likewise  whether  the  skin  can  be 
easily  parted  from  the   edges  and 


middle.  Those  that  have  a  white  or. 
yellow  fur  should  be  carefully  avoid- 
ed, though  many  of  them  have  a 
similar  smell,  but  not  so  strong  and 
fragrant,  as  the  genuine  mushroom. 
Great  numbers  of  these  may  be  pro- 
duced, by  strewing  on  an  old  hot- 
bed the  broken  pieces  of  mushrooms ; 
or  if  the  water  in  which  they  have 
been  washed  be  poured  on  the  bed, 
it  will  nearly  answer  the  same  pur- 
pose. 

MUSHROOMS  DRIED.  Wipe 
them  clean,  take  out  the  brown  part 
of  the  large  ones,  and  peel  off  the 
skin.  Lay  them  on  paper  to  dry  in 
a  cool  oven,  and  keep  them  in  paper 
bags  in  a  dry  place.  When  used^ 
simmer  them  in  the  gravy,  and  they 
will  swell  to  nearly  their  former 
size.  Or  before  they  are  made  into 
powder,  it  is  a  good  way  to  simmer 
them  in  their  own  liquor  till  it  dry 
up  into  them,  shaking  the  pan  all 
the  time,  and  afterwards  drying 
them  on  tin  plates.  Spice  may  be 
added  or  not.  Tie  the  mushrooms 
down  close  in  a  bottle,  and  keep  it 
in  a  dry  place. 

MUSHROOM  KETCHUP.  Take 
the  largest  broad  mushrooms,  break 
them  into  an  earthen  pan,  strew  salt 
over,  and  stir  them  occasionally  for 
three  days.  Then  let  them  stand 
twelve  days,  till  there  is  a  thick 
scum  over.  Strain  and  boil  the  li 
quor  with  Jamaica  and  black  pep- 
pers, mace,  ginger,  a  clove  or  two, 
and  some  mustard  seed.  When  cold, 
bottle  it,  and  tie  a  bladder  over  the 
cork.  In  three  months  boil  it  again 
with  fresh  spice,  and  it  will  then 
keep  a  twelvemonth. — Another  way. 
Fill  a  stewpan  with  large  flap  mush- 
rooms, that  are  not  worm-eaten, 
and  the  skins  and  fringe  of  such 
as  have  been  pickled.  ThKow  a 
handful  of  salt  among  them,  and  set 
them  by  a  slow  fire.  They  will  pro- 
duce a  great  deal  of  liquor,  which 
must  be  strained  ;  then  add  four 
ounces  of  shalots,  two  cloves  of  gar- 
lic, a  good  deal  of  whole  pepper, 
213 


M  t^ 


MUT 


ginger,  mace,  cloves,  and  a  few  bay 
h  avcs.  Boil  and  skim  it  well,  and 
when  cold,  cork  it  up  close.  In  two 
months  boil  it  up  again  with  a  little 
fresh  spice,  and  a  stick  of  horse- 
radish. It  will  then  keep  a  year, 
which  mushroom  ketchup  rarely 
does,  if  not  boiled  a  second  time. 

MUSHROOM  POWDER.  Wash 
half  a  peck  of  large  mushrooms 
while  quite  fresh,  and  free  them 
from  grit  and  dirt  with  flannel. 
Scrape  out  the  black  part  clean,  and 
do  not  use  any  that  are  worm-eaten. 
Put  them  into  a  stewpan  over  the 
fire  without  any  water,  with  two 
large  onions,  some  cloves,  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  mace,  and  two  spoon- 
fuls of  white  pepper,  all  in  powder. 
Simmer  and  shake  them  till  all  the 
liquor  be  dried  up,  but  be  careful 
they  do  not  burn.  Lay  them  on 
tins  or  sieves  in  a  slow  oven  till  they 
are  dry  enough  to  beat  to  powder; 
then  put  the  powder  into  s-mall  bot- 
tles, corked,  and  tied  closely,  and 
kept  in  a  dry  place.  A  tea-spoonful 
of  this  powder  will  give  a  very  fine 
flavour  to  any  soup  or  gravy,  or  any 
sauce  ;  and  it  is  to  be  added  just 
before  serving,  and  one  boil  given  to 
it  after  it  is  put  in. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE.  Melt 
some  butter  with  flour,  in  a  little 
milk  or  cream.  Put  in  some  mush- 
rooms, a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  and 
boil  it  up  together  in  a  saucepan. 
Or  put  the  mushrooms  into  melted 
butter,  with  veal  gravy,  salt,  and 
nutmeg. 

MUSLIN  PATTERNS.  In  order 
to  copy  muslin  patterns,  the  draw- 
ing is  to  be  placed  on  a  sheet  of 
white  paper,  and  the  outline  prick- 
ed through  with  a  pin.  The  white 
sheet  may  then  be  laid  on  a  second 
clear  one,  and  a  muslin  bag  of  pow- 
dered charcoal  sifted  or  rubbed  over 
it.  The  pierced  paper  being  re- 
moved, a  perfect  copy  may  be  traced 
on  the  other  ;  and  in  this  way,  pat- 
terns may  be  multiplied  very  expe- 
ditiously. 
214 


MUSTARD.  Mix  by  degrees, 
the  best  Durham  flour  of  mustard 
with  boiling  water,  rubbing  it  per- 
fectly smooth,  till  it  comes  to  a  pro- 
per thickness.  Add  a  little  salt, 
keep  it  in  a  small  jar  close  covered, 
and  put  only  as  much  into  the  glass 
as  will  be  used  soon.  The  glass 
should  be  wiped  daily  round  the 
edges.  If  for  immediate  use,  mix 
tJie  mustard  with  new  milk  by  de- 
grees, till  it  is  quite  smooth,  and  a 
little  raw  cream.  It  is  much  softer 
this  way,  does  not  taste  bitter,  and 
will  keep  well.  A  tea-spoonful  of 
sugar,  to  half  a  pint  of  mustard,  is 
a  great  improvement,  and  tends 
much  to  soften  it.  Patent  mustard 
is  nearly  as  cheap  as  any  other,  and 
is  generally  preferred. 

MUSTY  FLOUR.  When  flour 
has  acquired  ^  musty  smell  and 
taste,  from  dampness  and  other 
causes,  it  may  be  recovered  by  the 
simple  use  of  magnesia,  allowing 
thirty  grains  of  the  carbonate  to  one 
pound  of  flour.  It  is  to  be  leavened 
and  baked  in  the  usual  way  of  mak- 
ing bread.  The  loaves  will  be  found 
to  rise  well  in  the  oven,  to  be  more 
light  and  spongy,  and  also  whiter 
than  bread  in  the  common  way.  It 
will  likewise  have  an  excellent  taste, 
and  will  keep  well.  The  use  of  mag- 
nesia in  bread  making  is  well  worthy 
of  attention,  for  if  it  improves  musty 
flour,  and  renders  it  palatable,  it 
would  much  more  improve  bread 
in  general,  and  be  the  interest  of 
families  to  adopt  it.  The  use  of 
magnesia  in  bread,  independent  of 
its  improving  qualities,  is  as  much 
superior  to  that  of  alum  as  cne  sub- 
stance can  be  to  another. 

MUTTON.  In  cutting  up  mut- 
ton, in  order  to  its  being  dressed, 
attention  should  be  paid  to  the  dif- 
ferent joints.  The  pipe  that  runs 
along  the  bone  of  the  inside  of  a 
chine  must  be  removed,  and  if  the 
meat  is  to  be  kept  some  time,  the 
part  close  round  the  tail  should  be 
rubbed  with  salt,  after  first  cutting 


M  UT 


MUT 


out  the  kernel.  A  leg  is  apt  to  be 
first  tainted  in  the  fat  on  the  thick 
part,  where  the  kernel  is  lodged, 
and  this  therefore  should  be  re- 
moved, or  the  meat  cannot  be  ex- 
pected to  keep  well.  The  chine  and 
rib  bones  should  be  wiped  every 
day,  and  the  bloody  part  of  the  neck 
be  cut  off  to  preserve  it.  The  brisket 
changes  first  in  the  breast ;  and  if 
it  is  to  be  kept,  it  is  best  to  rub  it 
with  a  little  salt,  should  the  weather 
be  hot.  Every  kernel  should  be 
taken  out  of  all  sorts  of  meat  as 
soon  as  it  is  brought  in,  and  then 
wiped  dry.  For  roasting,  it  should 
hang  as  long  as  it  will  keep,  the 
hind  quarter  especially,  but  not  so 
long  as  to  taint ;  for  whatever  may 
be  authorised  by  the  prevailing 
fashion,  putrid  juices  certainly 
ought  not  to  be  taken  into  the  sto- 
mach. Great  care  should  be  taken 
to  preserve  by  paper  the  fat  of  what 
is  roasted.  Mutton  for  boiling  will 
not  look  of  a  good  colour,  if  it  has 
hung  long. — In  purchasing  this  meat, 
choose  it  by  the  fineness  of  the  grain, 
the  goodness  of  its  colour,  and  see 
that  the  fat  be  firm  and  white.  It  is 
not  the  better  for  being  young :  if  it 
be  wether  mutton,  of  a  good  breed 
and  well  fed,  it  is  best  for  age.  The 
flesh  of  ewe  mutton  is  paler,  and  the 
texture  finer.  Ram  mutton  is  very 
strong  flavoured,  the  flesh  is  of  a 
deep  red,  and  the  fat  is  spongy : 
wether  mutton  is  the  best. 

MUTTON  BROTH.  Soak  a  neck 
of  mutton  in  water  for  an  hour,  cut 
off"  the  scrag,  and  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pot,  with  two  quarts  of  water.  As 
soon  as  it  boils,  skim  it  well,  and 
simmer  it  an  hour  and  a  half.  Cut 
the  best  end  of  the  mutton  into 
pieces,  two  bones  in  each,  and  take 
off*  some  of  the  fat.  Prepare  four 
or  five  carrots,  as  many  turnips,  and 
three  onions,  aU  sliced,  but  not  cut 
small.  Put  them  soon  enough  to 
get  quite  tender,  and  add  four  large 
spoonfuls  of  Scotch  barley,  first  wet- 


ted with  cold  water.  Twenty  minutes 
before  serving,  put  in  some  chopped 
parsley,  add  a  little  salt,  and  send 
up  all  together.  This  is  a  Scotch 
dish,  and  esteemed  very  excellent  in 
the  winter. 

MUTTON  CHOPS.  Cut  them 
from  the  loin  or  neck,  broil  them  on 
a  clear  fire,  and  turn  them  often,  or 
the  fat  dropping  into  the  fire  will 
smoke  them.  When  done,  put  them 
into  a  warm  dish,  rub  them  with 
butter,  slice  a  shalot  in  a  spoonful 
of  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt 
and  ketchup,  and  pour  it  over  the 
chops.  The  ketchup  may  be  omit- 
ted, and  plain  butter  used  instead. 

MUTTON  CHOPS  IN  DIS- 
GUISE. Prepare  a  seasoning  of 
chopped  parsley  and  thyme,  grated 
bread,  pepper  and  salt.  Stoear  the 
chops  over  with  egg,  strew  the  sea- 
soning on  them,  and  roll  each  in  but- 
tered paper.  Close  the  ends,  put 
them  in  a  Dutch  oven  or  fryingpan, 
and  let  them  broil  slowly.  When 
done,  send  them  to  table  in  the  pa- 
per, with  gravy  in  a  boat. 

MUTTON  COLLOPS.  From  a 
loin  of  mutton  that  has  been  well 
kept,  cut  some  thin  coUops  nearest 
to  the  leg.  Take  out  the  sineu^s, 
season  the  collops  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  mace ;  and  strew  over  them 
shred  parsley,  thyme,  and  two  or 
three  shalots.  Fry  them  in  butter 
till  half  done  ;  add  half  a  pint  of 
gravy,  a  little  lemon  juice,  an^  a 
pieceof  butter  rubbed  in  flour.  Sim- 
mer them  together  very  gently  for 
five  minutes,  and  let  the  collops  be 
served  up  immediately,  or  they  will 
become  hard. 

MUTTON  CUTLETS.  To  do 
them  in  the  Portuguese  way,  half 
fry  the  chops  with  sliced  shalot  or 
onion,  chopped  parsley,  and  two 
bay  leaves.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt ;  then  lay  a  forcemeat  on 
a  piece  of  white  paper,  put  the  chop 
on  it,  and  twist  the  paper  up,  leav- 
ing a  hole  for  the  eifcd  of  the  bones 
215 


M  U  T 


MUT 


to  go  through.  Broil  the  cutlets  oa 
a  gentle  fire,  serve  them  with  a  little 
gravy,  or  with  sauce  Robart. 

MUTTON  HAM.  Choose  a  fine- 
grained leg  of  wether  mutton,  of 
twelve  or  fourteen  pounds  weight; 
cut  it  ham  shape,  and  let  it  hang 
two  days.  Then  put  into  a  stewpan 
half  a  pound  of  bay  salt,  the  same 
of  common  salt,  two  ounces  of  salt- 
petre, and  half  a  pound  of  coarse 
sugar,  all  in  powder.  Mix,  and 
make  it  quite  hot ;  then  rub  it  well 
into  the  ham.  Let  it  be  turned  in 
the  liquor  every  day ;  at  the  end  of 
four  days  add  two  ounces  more  of* 
common  salt ;  in  twelve  days  take 
it  out,  dry  it,  and  hang  it  up  a  week 
in  wood  smoke.  It  is  to  be  used  in 
slices,  with  stewed  cabbage,  mashed 
potatoes,  or  eggs. 

MUTTON  HASHED.  Cut  thin 
slices  of  dressed  mutton,  fat  and 
lean,  and  flour  them.  Boil  the  bones 
with  a  little  onion,  season  the  meat, 
and  warm  it  up  with  the  gravy,  but 
it  should  not  boil.  Instead  of  onion, 
a  clove,  a  spoonful  of  currant  jelly, 
and  a  glass  of  port  wine,  will  make 
it  taste  like  venison. 

MUTTON  KEBOBBED.  Take 
all  the  fat  out  ot  a  loin  of  mutton, 
and  that  on  the  outside  also  if  too 
fat,  and  remove  the  skin.  Joint  it 
at  every  bone,  mix  a  small  nutmeg 
grated  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
crumbs  of  bread,  and  herbs.  Dip 
the  steaks  into  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  and  sprinkle  the  above  mixture 
all  over  them.  Then  place  the  steaks 
together  as  they  were  before  they 
were  cut  asunder,  tie  and  fasten 
them  on  a  small  spit.  Roast  them 
before  a  quick  fire ;  set  a  dish  un- 
der, and  baste  them  with  a  good 
piece  of  butter,  and  the  liquor  that 
comes  from  the  meat,  but  throw 
some  more  of  the  above  seasoning 
over.  When  done  enough,  lay  the 
meat  in  a  dish.  Prepare  an  addi- 
tional half  pint  of  good  gravy,  put 
into  it  two  spoonfuls  of  ketchup, 
2i6 


and  rub  down  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour 
with  it.  Give  it  a  boil,  skim  off  all 
the  fat,  and  pour  it  over  the  mutton. 
Be  careful  to  keep  the  meat  hot,  till 
the  gravy  is  quite  ready. 

MUTTON  PIE.  Cut  steaks  from 
a  loin  or  neck  of  mutton  that  has 
hung  some  time  ;  beat  them,  and 
remove  some  of  the  fat.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  onion. 
Put  a  little  water  at  the  bottom  of 
the  dish,  and  a  little  paste  on  the 
edge  ;  then  cover  it  with  a  tolerably 
thick  paste.  Or  raise  small  pies, 
breaking  each  bone  in  two  to  shorten 
it  ;  cover  it  over,  and  pinch  the 
edges  together.  When  the  pies 
come  from  the  oven,  pour  into  each 
a  spoonful  of  good  mutton  gravy. 

MUTTON  PUDDING.  Season 
some  chops  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
a  taste  of  onion.  Place  a  layer  of 
meat  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  pour 
over  them  a  batter  of  potatoes  boiled 
and  pressed  through  a  cullender,  and 
mixed  with  an  e^^  and  milk.  Put  in 
the  rest  of  the  chops,  and  the  batter, 
and  bake  it.  Batter  made  of  flour 
eats  very  well,  but  requires  more 
egg,  and  is  not  so  good  as  potatoe. 
Another  way  is  to  cut  slices  off  a 
leg  that  has  been  underdone,  and 
put  them  into  a  bason  lined  with  a 
fine  suet  crust.  Season  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  finely  shred  onion 
or  shalot. 

MUTTON  RUMPS  AND  KID- 
NEYS. Stew  six  rumps  in  some 
good  mutton  gravy  half  an  hour ; 
then  take  them  up,  and  let  them 
stand  to  cool.  Clear  the  gravy  from 
the  fat,  and  put  into  it  four  ounces 
of  boiled  rice,  an  onion  stuck  with 
cloves,  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Boil 
them  till  the  rice  is  thick.  Wash 
the  rumps  with  yolks  of  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  strew  over  them  crumbs 
of  bread,  a  little  pepper  and  salt, 
chopped  parsley  and  thyme,  and 
grated  lemon  peel,  fried  in  butter, 
of  a  fine  brown.  While  the  rumps 
are  stewing,  lard  the  kidneys^  and 


NAS 


NT.C 


set  them  to  roast  in  a  Dutch  oven. 
When  the  rumps  are  ready,the  grease 
must  be  drained  from  them  before 
they  are  put  in  the  dish ;  the  pan 
being  cleared  likewise  from  the  fat, 
warm  up  the  rice  in  it.  Lay  the 
latter  on  the  dish,  place  the  rumps 
round  upon  the  rice,  the  narrow  ends 
towards  the  middle,  and  the  kidneys 
between.  Garnish  with  hard  eggs 
cut  in  halves,  tue  white  being  left 
on, or  with  different  coloured  pickles. 

MUTTON  SAUCE.  Two  spoon- 
fuls of  the  liquor  in  which  the  mut- 
ton is  boiled,  the  same  quantity  of 
vinegar,  two  or  three  shalots  finely 
shred,  with  a  little  salt,  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  bit  of  butter  rolled 
in  flo'jr,  stirred  together  and  boiled 
once,  will  make  good  sauce  for  boil- 
ed mutton. 

MUTTON  SAUSAGES.  Take 
a  pound  of  the  rawest  part  of  a  leg 
of  mutton  that  has  been  either  roast- 
ed or  boiled ;  chop  it  quite  small, 
and  season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  mace, 
and  nutmeg.  Add  to  it  six  ounces 
of  beef  suet,  some  sweet  herbs,  two 


anchovies,  and  a  pint  of  oysters,  all 
chopped  very  small ;  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  grated  bread,  some  of  the 
anchovy  liquor,  and  two  eggs  well 
beaten.  When  well  mixed  together, 
put  it  into  a  small  pot ;  and  use  it 
by  rolling  it  into  balls  or  sausages, 
and  fry  them.  If  approved,  a  little 
shalot  may  be  added,  or  garlick, 
which  is  a  great  improvement. 

MUTTON  STEAKS.  These 
should  be  cut  from  a  loin  or  neck 
that  has  been  well  kept ;  if  a  neck, 
the  bones  should  not  be  long.  Broil 
them  on  a  clear  fire,  season  them 
when  half  done,  and  let  them  be  of- 
ten turned.  Take  them  up  into  a 
very  hot  dish,  rub  a  bit  of  butter  on 
each,  and  serve  them  up  hot  and 
hot  the  moment  they  are  done. — To 
do  them  Maintenon,  half*  fry  them 
first,  then  stew  them  while  hot,  with 
herbs,  crumbs,  and  seasoning.  Rub 
a  bit  of  butter  on  some  writing  pa- 
per, to  prevent  its  catching  the  fire, 
wrap  the  steaks  in  it,  and  finish  them 
on  the  gridiron. 


N. 


Nankeen  dye.  The  article  ge- 
nerally sold  under  this  title,  and 
which  produces  a  fine  buff  colour  so 
much  in  use,  is  made  of  equal  parts 
of  arnetto  and  common  potash,  dis- 
solved and  boiled  in  water.  The 
yellow  colour  called  Dutch  Pink,  is 
made  from  a  decoction  of  weld  or 
dyer's  weed ;  and  if  blue  cloths  be 
dipped  in  this  liquid,  they  will  take 
the  colour  of  a  fine  green. 

NAST URTIONS,  if  intended  for 
capers,  should  be  kept  a  few  days 
after  they  are  gathered.  Then  pour 
boiling  vinegar  over  them,  and  cover 
them  close  when  cold.  They  will 
not  be  fit  to  eat  for  some  months  ; 
but  are  then  finely  flavoured,  and  by 
many  arc  preferred  to  capers. 

(No.  10.) 


NEAT'S  TONGUE.  If  intended 
to  be  stewed,  it  should  be  simmered 
for  two  hours,  and  peeled.  Then 
return  it  to  the  same  liquor,  with 
pepper,  salt,  mace,  and  cloves,  tied 
up  in  a  piece  of  cloth.  Add  a  few 
chopped  capers,  carrots  and  turnips 
sliced,  half  a  pint  of  beef  gravy,  a 
little  white  wine,  and  sweet  herbs. 
Stew  it  gently  till  it  is  tender,  take 
out  the  herbs  and  spices,  and  thick- 
en the  gravy  with  butter  rolled  in 
flour. 

NECK  OF  MUTTON.  Thfs  joint 
is  particularly  useful,  because  so 
many  dishes  may  be  made  of  it ; 
but  it  is  not  esteemed  advantageous 
for  a  family.  The  bones  should  be 
cut  short,  which  the  butchers  will 

Ff  til7 


N  E*W 


N  O  K 


^^ 


nut  do  unless  particularly  desired. 
The  best  end  of  the  neck  may  be 
boiled,  and  served  with  turnips ;  or 
roasted,  or  dressed  in  steaks,  in 
pies,  or  harrico.  The  scrags  may 
be  stewed  in  broth ;  or  with  a  small 
quantity  of  water,  some  small  onions, 
a  few  peppercorns,  and  a  little  rice, 
and  served  together.  When  a  boiled 
neck  is  to  look  particularly  nice, 
saw  down  the  chine  bone,  strip  the 
ribs  halfway  down,  and  chop  off  the 
ends  of  the  bones  about  four  inches. 
The  skin  should  not  be  taken  off  till 
boiled,  and  then  the  fat  will  look 
the  whiter.  When  there  is  more 
fat  than  is  agreeable,  it  makes  a  very 
good  suet  pudding,  or  crust  for  a 
meat  pie  if  cut  very  fine. 

NECK  OF  PORK.  A  loin  or 
neck  of  pork  should  be  roasted.  Cut 
the  skin  across  with  a  sharp  pen- 
knife, at  distances  of  half  an  inch. 
Serve  with  vegetables  and  apple 
sauce. 

NECK  OF  VEAL.  Cut  off  the 
scrag  to  boil,  and  cover  it  with  onion 
sauce.  It  should  be  boiled, in  milk 
and  water.  Parsley  and  butter  may 
be  served  with  it,  instead  of  onion 
sauce.  Or  it  may  be  stewed  with 
whole  rice,  small  onions,  and  pep- 
percorns, with  a  very  little  water. 
It  may  also  be  boiled  and  eaten  with 
bacon  and  greens.  The  best  end  of 
^he  neck  may  either  be  roasted, 
<>roiled  as  steaks,  or  made  into  a  pie. 

NECK  OF  VENISON.  Rub  it 
with  salt,  and  let  it  lie  four  or  five 
days.  Flour  it,  and  boil  it  in  a 
cloth,  allowing  to  every  pound  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Cauliflower, 
turnips,  and  cabbages,  are  eaten 
with  it,  and  melted  butter.  Garnish 
the  dish  with  some  of  the  vegetables. 

NELSON  PUDDINGS.  Put  into 
a  Dutch  oven  six  small  cakes,  called 
Nelson  balls  or  rice  cakes,  made  in 
small  teacups.  When  quite  hot, 
pour  over  them  boiling  melted  but- 
ter, white  wine,  and  susjar. 

NEW  CASKS.  If  not  properly 
repared  before  they  are  used,  new 
2J8 


casks  are  apt  to  give  beer  and  other 
liquor  a  bad  taste.  They  must  there- 
fore be  well  scalded  and  seasoned 
several  days  successively  before  they 
are  used,  and  frequently  filled  with 
fresh  water.  The  best  way  however 
is  to  boil  two  pecks  of  bran  or  malt 
dust  in  a  copper  of  water,  and  pour 
it  hot  into  the  cask  ;  then  stop  it 
up  close,  let  it  stand  two  days,  wash 
it  out  clean,  and  let  the  cask  be  well 
dried. 

NEWCASTLE  PUDDING.  But- 
ter a  half  melon  mould  or  quart  basin, 
stick  it  all  round  with  dried  cherries 
or  fine  raisins,  and  fill  it  up  with 
custard  and  layers  of  thin  bread 
and  butter.  Boil  or  steam  it  an 
hour  and  a  half. 

NEWMARKET  PUDDING.  Put 
on  to  boil  a  pint  of  good  milk,  with 
half  a  lemon  peel,  a  little  cinnamon, 
and  a  bay  leaf.  Boil  it  gently  for 
five  or  ten  minutes,  sweeten  with 
loaf  sugar,  break  the  yolks  of  five 
and  the  whites  of  three  eggs  into  a 
basin,  beat  them  well,  and  add  the 
milk.  Beat  it  all  up  well  together, 
and  strain  it  through  a  tammis,  or 
fine  hair  sieve.  Prepare  some  bread 
and  butter  cut  thin,  place  a  layer  of 
it  in  a  pie  dish,  and  then  a  layer  of 
currants,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is 
nearly  full.  Pour  the  custard  over 
it,  and  bake  it  half  an  hour. 

NORFOLK  DUMPLINS.  iMake 
a  thick  batter  with  half  a  pint  of 
milk  and  flour,  two  eggs,  and  a  little 
salt.  Take  a  spoonful  of  the  batter, 
and  drop  it  gently  into  boiling  wa- 
ter ;  and  if  the  water  boil  fast,  they 
will  be  ready  in  a  few  minutes.  Take 
them  out  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and 
put  them  into  a  dish  with  a  piece  of 
butter.  These  are  often  called  drop 
dumplins,  or  spoon  dumplins.     ' 

NORFOLK  PUNCH,  To  make 
a  relishing  liquor  that  will  keep  many 
years,  and  improve  by  age,  put  the 
peels  of  thirty  lemons  and  thirty 
oranges  into  twenty  quarts  €f  French 
brandy.  The  fruit  must  be  pared 
so  thin  and  carefully,  that  not  the 


NOS 


If  OT 


Iteast'of  the  white  is  left.  Let  it  in- 
fuse twelve  hours.  Prepare  thirty 
quarts  of  cold  water  that  has  been 
boiled,  put  to  it  fifteen  pounds  of 
double-refined  sugar,  and  when  well 
incorporated,  pour  it  upon  the  bran- 
dy and  peels,  adding  the  juice  of 
the  oranges  and  of  twenty-four  le- 
mons. Mix  them  well,  strain  the 
liquor  through  a  fine  hair  sieve,  into 
a  very  clean  cask,  that  has  held 
spirits,  and  add  two  quarts  of  new 
milk.  Stir  the  liq*uor,  then  bung  it 
down  close,  and  let  it  stand  six 
weeks  in  a  warm  cellar.  Bottle  off 
the  liquor,  but  take  care  that  the 
bottles  be  perfectly  clean  and  dry, 
the  corks  of  the  best  quality,  and 
well  put  in.  Of  course  a  smaller 
quantity  of  this  punch  may  be  made, 
by  observing  only  the  above  pro- 
portions.— Another  way.  Pare  six 
lemons  and  three  Seville  oranges 
very  thin,  squeeze  the  juice  into  a 
large  teapot,  put  to  it  three  quarts 
of  brandy,  one  of  white  wine,  one 
of  milk,  and  a  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  lump  sugar.  Let  it  be  well  mix- 
ed, and  then  covered  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  Strain  it  through  a  jel- 
ly bag  till  quite  clear,  and  then  bot- 
tle it  off. 

NORTHUMBERLAND  PUD- 
DING. Make  a  hasty  pudding  with 
a  pint  of  milk  and  flour,  put  it  in- 
to a  bason,  and  let  it  stand  till  the 
next  day.  Then  mash  it  with  a  spoon, 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  clarified 
butter,  as  many  currants  picked  and 
washed,  two  ounces  of  candied  peel 
cut  small,  and  a  little  sugar  and 
brandy.  Bake  it  in  teacups,  turn 
them  out  on  a  dish,  and  pour  wine 
sauce  over  them. 

NOSE  BLEEDING.  Violent 
bleeding  at  the  nose  may  sometimes 
be  prevented  by  applying  lint  dip- 
ped in  vinegar,  or  a  strong  solution 
of  white  vitriol,  with  fomentations 
of  the  temples  and  forehead  made 
of  nitre  dissolved  in  water.  But  as 
juleeding  at  the  nose  is  often  bene- 


ficial,   it   j>hould    not   be  stidHScnly 
stopped. 

NOTICE  TO  QUIT.  The  usual 
mode  of  letting  houses  is  by  the  year, 
at  a  certain  annual  rent  to  be  paid 
quarterly  :  therefore  unless  a  writ- 
ten agreement  can  be  produced,  to 
show  that  the  premises  were  en- 
gaged for  a  shorter  period,  the  law 
considers  the  tenant  as  entered  for 
one  whole  year,  provided  the  rent 
exceeds  forty  shillings  per  annum, 
and  this  consideration  must  govern 
the  notice  to  quit.  Every  tenant 
who  holds  from  year  to  year,  which 
is  presumed  to  be  the  case  in  every 
instance  where  proof  is  not  given  to 
the  contrary,  is  entitled  to  half  a 
year's  notice,  which  must  be  given 
in  such  a  manner  that  the  tenant 
must  quit  the  premises  at  the  same 
quarter  day  on  which  he  took  pos- 
session :  so  that  if  his  rent  com- 
menced at  Michaelmas,  the  notice 
must  be  served  at  or  before  Cad^- 
day,  that  he  may  quit  at  Michael- 
mas. If  a  tenant  come  in  after  any 
of  the  regular  quarter  days,  and  pay 
a  certain  sum  for  the  remainder  of 
the  quarter,  he  does  not  commence 
annual  tenant  until  the  remainder  of 
the  quarter  is  expired  ;  but  if  he 
pay  rent  for  the  whole  quarter,  he 
is  to  be  considered  as  yearly  tenant 
from  the  commencement  of  his  rent, 
and  his  notice  to  quit  must  be  re- 
gulated accordingly.  Should  it  hap- 
pen that  the  landlord  cannot  ascer- 
tain the  precise  time  when  the  te- 
nancy commenced,  he  may  enquire 
of  the  tenant,  who  must  be  served 
with  notice  to  quit  at  the  time  he 
mentions,  and  must  obey  the  warn- 
ing agreeably  to  his  own  words, 
whether  it^  be  the  true  time  or  not. 
If  he  refuse  to  give  the  desired  in- 
formation, the  landlord,  instead  of 
*  on  or  before  midsummer  next,' 
must  give  in  his  notice,  *  at  the  end 
and  expiration  of  the  current  yea^of 
your  tenancy,  which  shall  expfre 
next  after  the  end  of  one  half  yt  ar 
219 


OAT 


OAT 


from  the  date  hereof.'  If  notice  be 
given  up  to  a  wrong  time,  or  a  quar- 
ter instead  of  half  a  year,  such  warn- 
ing will  be  sufficient,  if  the  party 
make  no  objection  at  the  time  he 
receives  it.  When  premises  are 
held  by  lease,  the  expiration  of  the 
term  is  sufficient  notice  to  quit, 
without  giving  any  other  warning  for 
that  purpose.  The  following  is  the 
form  of  a  landlord's  notice  to  his  te- 
nant : — *  I  do  hereby  give  you  notice 
to  quit  the  house  and  premises  you 
hold  of  me,  situate  in  the  parish  of 

in  the  county  of 
on  or  before  midsummer  next.  Dated 
the  day  of  in  the 

year  R.  C— The  fol- 

lowing is  a  tenant's  notice  to  his 
landlord  : — *  Sir,  I  hereby  give  you 
warning  of  my  intention  to  quit  your 
house  in  the  parish  of  on 

or  before  Michaelmas  next.  Dated 
the         day  of  in  the  year 

C.  R.' — ^These  forms  will 
also  serve  for  housekeepers  and 
lodgers,  if  *  apartment'  be  added  in- 


stead of  *  house  or  premises.'  Care 
however  must  be  taken  to  give  the 
address  correctly  :  *  R.  C.  landlord 
of  the  said  premises,  to  C.  R.  the 
tenant  thereof.'  Or,  *  To  Mr.  R.  C. 
the  landlord  of  the  said  premises.' 
NOTTINGHAM  PUDDING.  Peel 
six  large  apples,  take  out  the  core 
with  the  point  of  a  small  knife  or 
an  apple  scoop,  but  the  fruit  must 
be  left  whole.  Fill  up  the  centre 
with  sugar,  place  the  fruit  in  a  pie 
dish,  and  pour  over  a  nice  light  bat- 
ter, prepared  as  for  batter  pudding, 
and  bake  it  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

NUTMEG  GRATERS.  Those 
made  with  a  trough,  and  sold  by  the 
ironmongers,  are  by  far  the  best, 
especially  for  grating  fine  and  fast. 

NUTS.  Hazel  nuts  may  be  pre- 
served in  great  perfection  for  several 
months,  by  burying  them  in  earthen 
pots  well  closed,  a  foot  or  two  in  the 
ground,  especially  in  a  dry  or  sandy 
place. 


o. 


Oat  cakes.  Tliese  may  be  made 
the  same  as  muffins,  only  using  fine 
Yorkshire  oatmeal  instead  of  flour. 
Anothci-  sort  is  made  of  fine  oatmeal, 
warm  water,  yeast  and  salt,  beat  to 
a  thick  batter,  and  set  to  rise  in  a 
warm  place.  Pour  some  of  the  bat- 
ter on  a  baking  stone,  to  any  size 
you  please,  about  as  thick  as  a  pan- 
cake. Pull  them  open  to  butter 
them,  and  set  them  before  the  fire. 
If  muffins  or  oat  cakes  get  stale,  dip 
them  in  cold  water,  and  crisp  them 
in  a  Dutch  oven. 

OATMEAL.  This  article  has  un 
dergone    a  very    considerable  im- 
provement, since  the   introduction 
^f  what  are  termed  Embden  Groats, 
VMtnufactured  in  England  it  is  true, 
^  220 


out  of  Dutch  oats,  but  of  a  quality 
superior  to  any  thing  before  known 
in  this  country  under  the  name  of 
oatmeal,  and  which  may  now  be 
had  of  almost  all  retailers  at  a  mo- 
derate price. 

OATMEAL  FLUMMERY.  Put 
three  large  handfuls  of  fine  oatmeal 
into  two  quarts  of  spring  water,  and 
let  it  steep  a  day  and  a  night.  Pour 
off  the  clear  water,  put  in  the  same 
quantity  of  fresh  water,  and*  strain 
the  oatmeal  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Boil  it  till  it  is  as  thick  as  hasty 
pudding,  keep  it  stirring  all  the  time, 
that  it  may  be  smooth  and  fine. 
When  first  strained,  a  spoonful  of 
sugar  should  be  added,  two  spoon- 
fuls of  orange  flower-water   two  ox 


O  IN 


OIN 


three  spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  blade  of 
mace,  and  a  bit  of  lemon  peel. 
When  boiled  enough,  pour  the  flum- 
mery into  a  shallow  dish,  and  serve 
it  up. 

OATMEAL  PUDDING.  Pour  a 
quart  of  boiling  milk  over  a  pint  of 
the  best  oatmeal,  and  let  it  soak  all 
night.  Next  day  beat  two  eggs, 
and  mix  a  little  salt.  Butter  a  ba- 
son that  will  just  hold  it,  cover  it 
tight  with  a  floured  cloth,  and  boil 
it  an  hour  and  a  half.  Eat  it  with 
cold  butter  and  salt.  When  cold, 
slice  and  toast  it,  and  eat  it  as  oat- 
cake, buttered. 

OLD  WRITINGS.  When  old 
deeds  or  writings  are  so  much  de- 
faced that  they  can  scarcely  be  de- 
ciphered, bruise  and  boil  a  few  nut 
galls  in  white  wine  ;  or  if  it  be  a 
cold  infusion,  expose  it  to  the  sun 
for  two  or  three  da^s.  Then  dip  a 
sponge  into  the  infusion,  pass  it 
over  the  writing  that  is  sunk,  and  it 
will  instantly  be  revived,  if  the  in- 
fusion be  strong  enough  of  the  galls. 
Vitriolic  or  nitrous  acid  a  little  di- 
luted with  water,  will  also  render 
the  writing  legible  ;  but  care  must 
be  taken  that  the  solution  be  not 
too  strong,  or  it  will  destroy  the 
paper  or  the  parchment  which  con- 
tains the  writing. 

OINTMENTS.  An  excellent  oint- 
ment for  burns,  scalds,  chilblains, 
and  dressing  blisters,  may  be  made 
in  the  following  manner.  Take  eight 
ounces  of  hog's  lard  quite  fresh, 
one  ounce  of  bees'  wax,  and  one  of 
honey.  Put  them  into  a  kettle  over 
the  fire,  and  stir  it  together  till  it  is 
all  melted.  Pour  it  into  a  jar  for 
keeping,  add  a  large  spoonful  of 
rose  water,  and  keep  stirring  it  till 
it  is  cold. — Bad  scalds  and  burns 
should  first  have  a  poultice  of  grated 
potatoes  applied  to  them  for  several 
hours,  and  then  a  plaster  of  the 
ointment,  which  must  be  renewed 
morning  and  evening. — For  blisters, 
a  plaster  of  this  should  be  spread 
rather  longer  than  the  blister,  and 


put  on  over  the  blister  plaster  wheff 
it  has  been  on  twenty-four  hours, 
or  sooner  if  it  feel  uneasy.  By  this 
means  the  blister  plaster  will  slip 
off*  when  it  has  done  drawing,  with- 
out any  pain  or  trouble. — For  chil- 
blains, it  has  never  been  known  to 
fail  of  a  cure,  if  the  feet  have  been 
kept  clean,  dry,  and  warm. — An 
emollient  ointment,  for  anointing 
any  external  inflammations,  may  be 
made  as  follows.  Take  two  pounds 
of  palm  oil,  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
olive  oil,  half  a  pound  of  yellow  wax, 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Venice 
turpentine.  Melt  the  wax  in  the 
oil  over  the  fire,  mix  in  the  turpen- 
tine, and  strain  oflf  the  ointment. 

OINTMENT  FOR  BURNS. 
Scrape  two  ounces  of  bees'  wax  into 
half  a  pint  of  sallad  oil,  and  let  it 
simmer  gently  over  the  fire  till  the 
whole  is  incorporated.  Take  it  off" 
thje  fire,  beat  up  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  with  a  spoonful  of  oil,  and  stir 
up  all  together  till  it  is  quite  cold. 

OINTMENT  FOR  THE  EYES. 
This  is  made  of  four  ounces  of  fresh 
lard,  two  drams  of  white  wax,  and 
one  ounce  of  prepared  tutty.  Melt 
the  wax  with  the  lard  over  a  gentle 
fire,  and  sprinkle  in  the  tutty,  con- 
tinually stirring  them  till  the  oint- 
ment is  cold. 

OINTMENT  OF  LEAD.  This 
should  consist  of  half  a  pint  of  olive 
oil,  two  ounces  of  white  we^x,  and 
three  drams  of  the  sugar  of  lead  fine- 
ly powdered.  Rub  the  sugar  of  lead 
with  some  of  the  oil,  add  to  it  the 
other  ingredients,  which  should  be 
previously  melted  together,  and  stir 
them  till  the  ointment  is  quite  cold. 
This  cooling  ointment  may  be  used 
in  all  cases  where  the  intention  is  to 
dry  and  skin  over  the  wound,  as  in 
burns  and  scalds. 

OINTMENT  OF  MARSHMAL- 
LOWS.  Take  half  a  pound  of 
marshmallow  roots,  three  ounces  of 
linseed,  and  three  ounces  of  fennu- 
greek  seed.  Bruise  and  boil  them 
gently  half  an  hour  in   a  quart  of 


ONI 


OR  A 


water,  and  then  add  two  quarts  of 
sweet  oil.  Boil  them  together  till 
the  water  is  all  evaporated  :  then 
strain  off  the  oil,  and  add  to  it  a 
pound  of  bees'  wax,  half  a  pound  of 
yellow  rosin,  and  two  ounces  of 
conimon  turpentine.  Melt  them  to- 
gether over  a  slow  fire,  and  keep 
stirring  till  the  ointment  is  cold. 

OINTMENT  OF  SULPHUR. 
This  is  the  safest  and  best  applica- 
tion for  the  itch,  and  will  have  no 
disagreeable  smell,  if  made  in  the 
following  manner.  Take  four  ounces 
of  fresh  iard,  an  ounce  and  a  half 
of  flour  of  sulphur,  two  drams  of 
crude  sal-ammoniac,  and  ten  or  a 
dozen  drops  of  lemon  essence. 
When  made  into  an  ointment,  rub 
it  on  the  parts  affected. 

OLIVES.  This  foreign  article, 
sent  over  in  a  state  of  preservation, 
requires  only  to  be  kept  from  the 
air.  Olives  are  of  three  kinds,  Ita- 
lian, Spanish,  and  French,  of  dif- 
ferent sizes  and  flavour.  Each 
should  be  firm,  though  some  are 
most  fleshy. 

OMLET.  Make  a  batter  of  eggs 
and  milk,  and  a  very  little  flour. 
Add  chopped  parsley,  green  onions, 
or  chives,  or  a  very  small  quantity  ' 
of  shalot,  a  little  pepper  and  salt, 
and  a  scrape  or  two  of  nutmeg.  Boil 
some  butter  in  a  small  frying-pan, 
and  pour  the  above  batter  into  it. 
When  one  side  is  of  a  fine  yellow 
brown,  turn  it  and  do  the  other : 
double  it  when  served.  Some  lean 
ham  scraped,  or  grated  tongue,  put 
in  at  first,  is  a  very  pleasant  addi- 
tion. Four  eggs  will  make  a  pretty 
omlet,  but  some  will  use  eight  or 
ten,  and  only  a  small  proportion  of 
flour,  but  a  good  deal  of  parsley. 
If  the  taste  be  approved,  a  little 
tarragon  will  give  a  fine  flavour. 
Ramakins  and  omlet,  though  usu- 
ally served  in  the  course,  would  be 
much  better  if  they  were  sent  up 
after,  that  they  might  be  eaten  as 
hot  as  possible. 

.     ONION  GRAVY.  Peel  and  slice 
222 


some  onions  into  a  small  stewpan, 
with  an  ounce  of  butter,  adding  cu- 
cumber or  celery  if  approved.  Set 
it  on  a  slow  fire,  and  turn  the  onion 
about  till  it  is  lightly  browned  ;  then 
stir  in  half  an  ounce  of  flour,  a  little 
broth,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and 
boil  it  up  for  a  few  minutes.  Add 
a  table-spoonful  of  port  wine,  the 
same  of  mushroom  ketchup,  and 
rub  it  through  a  fine  sieve.  It  may 
be  sharpened  with  a  little  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar.  The  flavour  of  this 
sauce  may  be  varied  by  adding  tar- 
ragon, or  burnt  vinegar. 

ONION  SAUCE.  Peel  the  onions 
and  boil  them  tender.  Squeeze  the 
water  from  them,  chop  and  add 
them  to  butter  that  has  been  melted 
rich  and  smooth,  with  a  little  good 
milk  instead  of  water.  Boil  it  up 
once,  and  serve  it  for  boiled  rabbits, 
partridges,  scrag  or  knuckle  of  veal 
or  roast  mutton.  A  turnip  boiled 
with  the  onions* makes  them  milder. 

ONION  SOUP.  Put  some  car- 
rots, turnips,  and  a  shank  bone,  in- 
to the  liquor  in  which  a  leg  or  neck 
of  mutton  has  been  boiled,  and  sim- 
mer them  together  two  hours.  Strain 
it  on  six  onions,  sliced  and  fried  of 
a  light  brown  ;  simmer  the  soup 
three  hours,  and  skim  it  carefully. 
Put  a  small  roll  into  it,  or  fried 
bread,  and  serve  it  up  hot. 

ONIONS.  In  order  to  obtain  a 
good  crop  of  onions,  it  is  proper  to 
sow  at  different  seasons.  On  light 
soils  sow  in  August,  January,  or  early 
in  February  :  on  heavy  wet  soils  in 
March,  or  early  in  April.  Onions 
however  should  not  be  sown  so  soon 
as  January,  unless  the  ground  be  in 
a  dry  state,  which  is  not  often  the 
case  at  that  time  of  the  year :  other- 
wise, advantage  should  be  taken  of 
it.  As  this  valuable  root  is  known 
frequently  to  fail  by  the  common 
method  of  culture,  the  best  way  is 
to  sow  the  seed  successively,  that 
advantage  may  be  taken  of  the  sea- 
sons as  they  happen. 

ORANGE     BISCUITS.       Boil 


OKA 


OR  A 


whole  Seville  oranges  in  two  or  three 
waters,  till  most  of  the  bitterness  is 
gone.  Cut  them,  and  take  out  the 
pulp  and  juice;  then  beat  the  out- 
side very  fine  in  a  mortar,  and  put 
to  it  an  equal  weight  of  double-re- 
fined sugar  beaten  and  sifted.  When 
extremely  well  mixed  to  a  paste, 
spread  it  thin  on  china  dishes,  and 
set  them  in  the  sun,  or  before  the 
fire.  When  half  dry,  cut  it  into 
what  form  you  please,  and  turn  the 
other  side  up  to  dry.  Keep  the 
biscuits  in  a  box,  with  layers  of  pa- 
per. They  are  intended  for  desserts, 
and  are  also  useful  as  a  stomachic, 
to  carry  in  the  pocket  on  journeys, 
and  for  gouty  stomachs. 

ORANGE  BRANDY.  Steep  the 
peels  of  twenty  Seville  oranges  in 
three  quarts  of  brandy,  and  let  it 
stand  a  fortnight  in  a  stone  bottle. 
Boil  two  quarts  of  water  with  a 
pouiid  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar  nearly 
an  hour,  clarify  ,it  with  the  white 
of  an  egg,  strain  it,  and  boil  it  till 
reduced  nearly  one  half.  When  cold, 
strain  the  brandy  into  the  syrup. 

ORANGE  BUTT^.  Boil  six 
hard  eggs,  beat  theiti  in  a  mortar 
with  two  ounces  of  fine  sugar,  three 
ounces  of  butter,  and  two  ounces  of 
blanched  almonds  beaten  to  a  paste. 
Moisten  with  orange-flower  water  ; 
and  when  all  is  mixed,  rub  it  through 
a  cullender  on  a  dish,  and  serve 
with  sweet  biscuits  between. 

ORANGE  CHEESECAKES. 
Blanch  half  a  pound  of  almonds, 
beat  them  very  fine,  with  orange- 
flower  water,  half  a  pound  of  fine 
sugar  beaten  and  sifted,  a  pound 
of  butter  that  has  been  melted  care- 
fully without  oiling,  and  which  must 
be  nearly  cold  before  it  is  used. 
Then  beat  the  yolks  of  ten  and  the 
whites  of  four  eggs.  Pound  in  a 
mortar  two  candied  oranges,  and  a 
fresh  one  with  the  bitterness  boiled 
out,  till  they  are  as  tender  as  mar- 
malade, without  any  lumps.  Beat 
the  whole  together,  and  put  it  into 
pattipans. 


ORANGE  CHIPS.  Cut  oranges 
in  halves,  squeeze  the  juice  through 
a  sieve,  and  soak  the  peels  in  water. 
Next  day  boil  them  in  the  same  till 
tender;  then  drain  and  slice  the 
peels,  add  them  to  the  juice,  weigh 
as  much  sugar,  and  put  all  together 
into  a  broad  earthen  dish.  Place 
the  dish  at  a  moderate  distance  from 
the  fire,  often  stirring  till  the  chips 
candy,  and  then  set  them  in  a  cool 
room  to  dry,  which  commonly  re- 
quires about  three  weeks. 

ORANGE  CREAM.  Boil  the 
rind  of  a  Seville  orange  very  tender, 
and  beat  it  fine  in  a  mortar.  Add 
to  it  a  spoonful  of  the  best  brandy, 
the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange,  four 
ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  and  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs.  Beat  them  all  toge- 
ther for  ten  minutes  ;  then  by  gen- 
tle degrees,  pour  in  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing cream,  and  beat  it  up  till  cold. 
Set  sorne  custard  cups  into  a  deep 
dish  of  boiling  water,  pour  the  cream 
into  the  cups,  and  let  it  stand  again 
till  cold.  Put  at  the  top  some  small 
strips  of  orange  paring  cut  thin,  or 
some  preserved  chips. 

ORANGE-FLOWER  CAKES.  ^ 
Soak  four  ounces  of  the  leaves  of  * 
the  flowers  in  cold  water  for  an  hour ; 
drain,  and  put  them  between  nap- 
kins, and  roll  with  a  rolling-pin  till 
they  are  bruised.  Have  ready  boiled 
a  pound  of  sugar  to  add  to  it  in  a 
thick  syrup,  give  them  a  simmer 
until  the  syrup  adheres  to  the  sides 
of  the  pan,  drop  it  in  little  cakes  on 
a  plate,  and  dry  them  in  a  cool  room. 

ORANGE  FOOL.  Mix  the  juice 
of  three  Seville  oranges,  three  eggs 
well  beaten,  a  pint  of  cream,  a  little 
nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  and  sweeten 
it  to  taste.  Set  the  whole  over  a 
slow  fire,  and  stir  it  till  it  becomes 
as  thick  as  good  melted  butter,  but 
it  must  not  be  boiled.  Then  pour 
it  into  a  dish  for  eating  cold. 

ORANGE    JAM.      Lay    half  a 

dozen  oranges  in  water  four  or  five 

days,  changing  the  water  once  or 

twice   every  day.      Take    out    the 

223 


O  R  A 


O  R  A 


oranges,  and  wipe  them  dry.  Tie 
I  them  up  in  separate  cloths,  and  boil 

them  four  hours  in  a  large  kettle, 
changing  the  water  once  or  twice. 
Peel  oft  the  rinds  and  pound  them 
well  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  two 
pounds  of  hne  sugar  to  one  pound 
of  orange.  Then  beat  all  together, 
and  cover  the  jam  down  in  a  pot. 

ORANGE  JELLY.  Grate  the 
rind  of  two  Seville  and  two  China 
*  oranges,  and  two  lemons.     Squeeze 

the  juice  of  three  of  each,  and  strain 
it ;  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
lump  sugar  dissolved  in  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  water,  and  boil  it  till  it 
nearly  candies.  Prepare  a  quart  of 
jelly,  made  of  two  ounces  of  isin- 
glass ;  add  to  it  the  syrup,  and  boil 
it  once  up.  Strain  oft"  the  jelly, 
and  let  it  stand  to  settle  before  it 
is  put  into  the  mould. 

ORANGE  JUICE.  When  the 
fresh  juice  cannot  be  procured,  a 
very  useful  article  for  fevers  may  be 
made  in  the  following  manner. 
Squeeze  from  the  finest  fruit,  a  pint 
of  juice  strained  through  fine  mus- 
,  lin.  Simmer  it  gently  with  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  double-re- 
fined sugar  twenty  minutes,  and 
when  cold  put  it  into  small  bottles. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE.  Rasp 
the  oranges,  cut  out  the  pulp,  then 
boil  the  rinds  very  tender,  and  beat 
them  fine  in  a  marble  mortar.  Boil 
three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  in  a  pint 
of  water,  skim  it,  and  add  a  pound 
of  the  rind  ;  boil  it  fast  till  the  sy- 
rup is  very  thick,  but  stir  it  careful- 
ly. Then  add  a  pint  of  the  pulp 
and  juice,  the  seeds  having  been  re- 
moved, and  a  pint  of  apple  liquor; 
boil  it  all  gently  about  half  an  hour, 
until  it  is  well  jellied,  and  put  it 
into  small  pots.  Lemon  marmalade 
may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  and 
both  of  them  are  very  good  and  ele- 
gant sweetmeats. 

ORANGE  PEEL.  Scrape  out 
all  the  pulp,  soak  the  peels  in  wa- 
ter, and  stir  them  every  day.  In  a 
week's  time  put  them  in  fresh  water, 
:>24  ; 


and  repeat  it  till  all  the  bitterness 
is  extracted.  Boil  the  peels  in  fresh 
water  over  a  slow  fire  till  they  are 
quite  tender,  and  reduce  the  liquor 
to  a  quantity  sufticient  to  boil  it  to 
a  thick  syrup.  Put  the  peels  into 
the  syrup,  simmer  them  gently,  take 
them  out  of  the  syrup,  and  let  them 
cool.  Lay  them  to  dry  in  the  sun, 
and  the  peel  will  be  nicely  candied. 
ORANGE  PUDDING.  Grate 
the  rind  of  a  Seville  orange,  put  to 
it  six  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  and  six 
or  eight  ounces  of  lump  sugar  pound- 
ed. Beat  them  all  in  a  marble  mor- 
tar, and  add  at  the  same  time  the 
whole  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten  and 
strained.  Scrape  a  raw  apple,  and 
mix  it  with  the  rest.  Put  a  paste 
round  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the 
dish,  and  over  the  orange  mixture 
lay  cross  bars  of  paste.  Half  an 
hour  will  bake  it. — Another.  Mix 
two  full  spoonfuls  of  orange  paste 
with  six  eggs,  four  ounces  of  fine 
sugar,  and  four  ounces  of  warm  but- 
ter. Put  the  whole  into  a  shallow 
dish,  with  a  paste  lining,  and  bake 
it  twenty  miiyites. — Another.  Ra- 
ther more  than  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  the  orange  paste,  mixed  with  six 
eggs,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  and  four 
ounces  of  butter  melted,  will  make 
a  good  pudding,  with  a  paste  at  the 
bottom  of  the  dish.  Twenty  minutes 
will  bake  it. — Or,  boil  the  rind  of  a 
Seville  orange  very  soft,  and  beat 
it  up  with  the  juice.  Then  add  half 
a  pound  of  butter,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sugar,  two  grated  biscuits, 
and  the  yolks  of  six  eggs.  Mix  all 
together,  lay  a  pufi^  paste  round  the 
edge  of  the  dish,  and  bake  it  half 
an  hour. 

ORANGE  TART.  Squeeze,  pulp, 
and  boil  two  Seville  oranges  quite 
tender.  Weigh  them,  add  double 
the  quantity  of  sugar,  and  beat  them 
together  to  a  paste.  Add  the  juice 
and  pulp  of  the  fruit,  and  a  little 
bit  of  fresh  butter  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut, and  beat  all  together.  Choose 
a  very  shallo\y  dish,  line  it  with  a 


OR  A 


ORA 


light  puff-crust,  lay  the  orange  paste 
in  it,  and  ice  it  o\  r.  Or  line  a  tart 
pan  with  a  thin  puff-paste,  and  put 
into  it  orange  marmalade  made  with 
apple  jelly.  Lay  bars  of  paste,  or 
a  croquant  cover  over,  and  bake  it 
in  a  moderate  oven. — Another. 
Squeeze  some  Seville  oranges  into 
a  dish,  grate  off  the  outside  rind, 
throw  the  peel  into  water,  and  change 
it  often  for  two  days.  Boil  a  sauce- 
pan of  water,  put  in  the  oranges, 
and  change  the  water  three  or  four 
times  to  take  out  the  bitterness : 
when  they  are  quite  tender,  dry  and 
beat  them  fine  in  a  mortar.  Take 
their  weight  in  double  refined  sugar, 
boil  it  to  a  syrup,  and  skim  it  clean : 
then  put  in  the  pulp,  and  boil  it  till 
it  is  quite  clear.  Put  it  cold  into 
the  tarts,  and  the  juice  which  was 
squeezed  out,  and  bake  them  in  a 
quick  oven.  Lemon  tarts  are  made 
in  the  same  way. 

ORANGE  WINE.  To  six  gal- 
lons of  water  put  fifteen  pounds  of 
soft  sugar  :  before  it  boils,  add  the 
whites  of  six  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
take  off  the  scum  as  it^rises.  When 
cold,  add  the  juice  of  fifty  oranges, 
and  two  thirds  of  the  peels  cut  very 
thin ;  and  immerse  a  toast  covered 
with  yeast.  In  a  month  after  it  has 
been  in  the  cask,  add  a  pint  of  bran- 
dy, and  two  quarts  of  Rhenish  wine. 
It  will  be  fit  to  bottle  in  three  or 
four  months,  but  it  should  remain  in 
bottles  for  twelve  months  before  it 
is  drunk: 

ORANGES.     If  intended  to  be 

kept  for  future  use,  the  best  way  is 

to  dry  and  bake  some  clean  sand  ; 

and  when   it  is  cold,  put  it  into  a 

vessel.  Place  on  it  a  layer  of  oranges 

i       or  lemons  with  the  stalk  end  down- 

I       wards,  so  that  they  do  not  touch 

I- :     each  other,   and   cover  them  with 

the  sand   two  inches  deep.      This 

will  keep  them  in  a  good  state  of 

preservation    for     several    months. 

Another  way  is  to  freeze  the  fruit, 

and   keep    them    in    an   ice-house. 

When  used  they  are  to  be  thawed  in 


cold  water,  and  will  be  good  at  any 
time  of  the  year.  If  oranges  or 
lemons  are  designed  to  be  used  for 
juice,  they  should  first  be  pared  to 
preserve  the  peel  dry.  Some  should 
be  halved,  and  when  squeezed,  the 
pulp  cut  out,  and  the  outsides  dried 
for  grating.  If  for  boiling  in  any 
liquid,  the  first  way  is  the  best. 

ORANGES  CARVED.  With  a 
penknife  cut  on  the  rind?  "xny  shape 
you  please,  then  cut  off  a  piece  near 
and  round  the  stalk,  and  take  all  the 
pulp  out  carefully  with  an  apple 
scoop.  Put  the  rinds  into  salt  and 
water  two  days,  and  change  the  wa- 
ter daily.  Boil  them  an  hour  or 
more  in  fresh  salt  and  water,  and 
drain  them  quite  dry.  Let  them 
stand  a  night  in  plain  water,  and 
then  another  night  in  a  thin  syrup, 
in  which  boil  them  the  next  day  a 
few  minutes.  This  must  be  repeated 
four  days  successively.  Then  let 
them  stand  six  or  seven  weeks,  ob- 
serving often  whether  they  keep  well ; 
otherwise  the  syrup  must  be  boiled 
again.  Then  make  a  rich  syrup  for 
the  orana^es. 

ORANGES  IN  JELLY.  Cut  a 
hole  in  the  stalk  part,  the  size  of  a 
shilling,  and  with  a  blunt  knife 
scrape  out  the  pulp  quite  clear  with- 
out cutting  the  rind.  Tie  each  part 
separately  in  muslin,  and  lay  them 
in  spring  water  twojda^s,  changin^^ 
^he"water  tWicFaTday .  In  the  last 
/water  boil  them  over  a  slow  fire  till 
they  are  quite  tender.  Observe  that 
there  is  enough  at  first  to  allow  for 
wastirfg,  as  they  must  be  kept  co- 
vered till  the  last.  To  every  pound 
of  fruit,  allow  two  pounds  of  double- 
refined  augar,  and  one  pint  of  wa- 
ter. Boil  the  two  latter,  with  the 
juice  of  the  orange,  till  reduced  to 
a  syrup.  Clarify  it,  skim  it  well, 
and  let  it  stand  to  be  cold.  Then 
boil  the  fruit  in  the  syrup  half  an 
hour  ;  and  if  not  clear,  repeat  it 
daily  till  they  are  done. — Lemons 
are  preserved  in  a  similar  way.  Pare 
and  core  some  green  pippins,  and 
G  g  225 


ORG 


ORG 


boiftfffet:^!^  waiter  till  it  is  strongly 
favoured  with  them.  The  fruit 
should  not  be  broken,  only  gently 
pressed  with  the  back  of  a  spoon, 
and  the  water  strained  through  a 
jelly  bag  till  it  is  quite  clear.  To 
every  pint  of  liquor  put  a  pound  of 
double-retined  sugar,  the  peel  and 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  boil  the  whole 
to  a  strong  syrup.  Drain  off  the 
syrup  from  the  fruit,  and  turning 
each  lemon  with  the  hole  upwards 
in  the  jar,  pour  the  apple  jelly  over 
it.  The  bits  cut  out  must  undergo 
the  same  process  with  the  fruit, 
and  the  whole  covered  down  with 
brandy  paper. 

ORANGES  PRESERVED.  To 
fill  preserved  oranges  for  a  corner 
dish,  take  a  pound  of  Naples  bis- 
cuits, some  blanched  almonds,  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten,  four 
ounces  of  butter  warmed,  and  sugar 
to  taste.  Grate  the  biscuits,  mix 
them  with  the  above,  and  some 
orange-flower  water.  Fill  the  pre- 
served oranges,  and  bake  them  in  a 
very  slow  oven.  If  to  be  frosted, 
sift  some  fine  sugar  over  them,  as 
soon  as  they  are  filled  ;  otherwise 
they  should  be  wiped.  Or  they  may 
be  filled  with  custard,  and  then  the 
fruit  need  not  be  baked,  but  the 
cu«tard  should  be  put  in  cold. 

ORANGEADE.  Squeeze  out  the 
juice  of  an  orange,  pour  boiling  wa- 
ter on  a  little  of  the  peel,  and  cover 
it  close.  Boil  water  and  sugar  to 
a  thin  syrup,  and  skim  it.  When 
all  are  cold,  mix  the  juice,  the  in- 
fusion, and  the  syrup,  with  as  much 
more  water  as  will  make  a  rich  sher- 
bet. Strain  the  whole  through  a 
jelly  bag  ;  or  squeeze  the  jtlice  and 
strain  it,  and  water  and  capillaire. 

ORCHARD.  Fruit  trees,  whe- 
ther in  orchards,  or  espaliers,  or 
against  walls,  require  attention,  in 
planting,  pruning,  or  other  manage- 
ment, almost  every  month  in  the 
year,  to  render  them  productive, 
and  to  preserve  the  fruit  in  a  good 
state. — ^January.  Cut  out  dead 
22fl 


wdod  aftd  irriegular  branches,  clean 
the  stumps  and  boughs  from  the 
moss  with  a  hollow  iron.  Repair 
espaliers  by  fastening  the  stakes  and 
poles  with  nails  and  wire,  and  tying 
the  shoots  down  with  twigs  of  osier. 
Put  down  some  stakes  by  all  the 
new-planted  trees.  Cut  grafts  to  be 
ready,  and  lay  them  in  the  earth 
under  a  warm  wall.  February. 
Most  kinds  of  trees  may  be  pruned 
this  month,  though  it  is  generally 
better  to  do  it  in  autumn  ;  but  what- 
ever was  omitted  at  that  season, 
should  be  done  now.  The  hardiest 
kinds  are  to  be  pruned  first ;  and 
isuch  as  are  more  tender,  at  the  lat- 
ter end  of  the  month,  when  there 
Mill  be  less  danger  of  their  suffering 
in  the  wounded  part  from  the  frost. 
Transplant  fruit  trees  to  places 
wiliere  they  are  wanted.  Open  a 
large  hole,  set  the  earth  carefully 
about  the  roots,  and  nail  them  at 
once  to  the  wall,  or  fasten  them  to 
strong  stakes.  Sow  the  kernels  of 
apples  and  pears,  and  the  stones  of 
plums  for  stocks.  Endeavour  to 
keep  off  the  birds  that  eat  the  bud  ; 
of  fruit  trees  at  this  season  of  the 
year. — March.  The  grafts  which 
were  cut  off  early  and  laid  in  the 
ground,  are  now  to  be  brought  into 
use  ;  the  earliest  kinds  first,  and 
the  apples  last  of  all.  When  this 
is  done,  take  off  the  heads  of  the 
stocks  that  were  inoculated  the  pre- 
ceding year.  A  hand's  breadth  of 
the  head  should  be  left,  for  tying 
the  bud  securely  to  it,  and  that  the 
sap  may  rise  more  freely  for  its  nou- 
rishment. The  fruit  trees  that  were 
planted  in  October  should  also  b^ 
headed,  and  cut  down  to  about  four 
eyes,  that  the  sap  may  flow  more 
freely. — April.  Examine  the  fruit 
trees  against  the  walls  and  espaliers, 
take  off  all  the  shoots  that  project 
in  front,  and  train  such  as  rise  kind- 
ly. Thin  apricots  upon  the  trees, 
for  there  arc  usually  more  than  can 
ripen  ;  and  the  sooner  this  is  done, 
the    better  will    the    rest   succeed. 


ORG 


ORG 


Water  new-planted  trees,  plant  the 
vine  cuttings,  and  inspect  the  grown 
ones.  Nip  oft'  improper  shoots  ; 
and  when  two  rise  from  the  same  eye, 
take  oft' the  weakest  of  them.  Weed 
strawberry  beds,  cut  off"  the  strings, 
stir  the  earth  between  them,  and 
water  them  once  in  two  or  three 
days.  Dig  up  the  borders  near  the 
fruit  trees,  and  never  plant  any  large 
kind  of  flowers  or  vegetables  npon 
them.  Any  thing  planted  or  sown 
near  the  trees,  has  a  tendency  to 
impoverish  the  fruit. — May.  If  any 
fresh  shoots  have  sprouted  upon  the 
fruit  trees,  in  espaliers,  or  against 
walls,  take  them  oft".  Train  the 
proper  ones  to  the  walls  or  poles, 
at  due  distances,  and  in  a  regular 
manner.  Look  over  vines,  and  stop 
every  shoot  that  has  fruit  upon  it, 
to  three  eyes  beyond  the  fruit.  Then 
train  the  branches  regularly  to  the 
wall,  and  let  such  as  are  designed 
for  the  next  year's  fruiting  grow 
some  time  longer,  as  their  leaves 
will  aflford  a  suitable  shade  to  the 
fruit.  Water  the  trees  newly  plant- 
ed, keep  the  borders  about  the  old 
ones  clear,  and  pick  oft"  the  snails 
and  other  vermin. — June.  Renew 
the  operation  of  removing  from  wall 
trees  and  espaliers,  all  the  shoots 
that  project  in  front.  Train  proper 
branches  to  their  situations,  where 
they  are  wanted.  Once  more  thin 
the  wall  fruit  :  leave  the  nectarines 
four  inches  apart,  and  the  peaches 
five,  but  none  nearer:  the  fruit  will 
be  finer,  and  the  next  year  the  tree 
will  be  stronger,  if  this  precaution 
be  adopted.  Inoculate  the  apricots, 
and  choose  for  this  purpose  a  cloudy 
evening.  Water  trees  lately  plant- 
ed, and  pick  up  snails  and  vermin. 
— ^JuLT.  Inoculate  peaches  and 
nectarines,  and  take  oft'  all  project- 
ing shoots  in  espaliers  and  wall  fruit- 
trees.  Hang  phials  of  honey  and  wa- 
ter upon  fruit-trees,  to  protect  them 
from  the  depredations  of  insects, 
and  look  carefully  for  snails,  which 
also  will  destroy  the  fruit.  Keep  the 


borders  clear  from  weeds,  and  stir 
the  earth  about  the  roots  of  the  trees ; 
this  will  hasten  the  ripening  of  the 
fruit.  Examine  the  fruit  trees  that 
were  grafted  and  budded  the  last 
season,  to  see  that  there  are  no 
shoots  from  the  stocks.  Whenever 
they  rise,  take  them  off",  or  they 
will  deprive  the  intended  growth  of 
its  nourishment.  Attend  to  the 
trees  lately  planted,  and  water  them 
often  ;  and  whatever  good  shoots 
they  make,  fasten  them  to  the  wall 
or  espalier.  Repeat  the  care  of  the 
vines,  take  oft"  improper  or  irregular 
shoots,  and  nail  up  the  loose  branch- 
es. Let  no  weeds  rise  in  the  ground 
about  them,  for  they  will  exhaust 
the  nourishment,  and  impoverish 
the  fruit. — August.  Watch  the 
fruit  on  the  wall  trees,  and  keep  oflT 
the  devourers,  of  which  there  will 
be  numberless  kinds  swarming  about 
them  during  this  month.  Send  away 
the  birds,  pick  up  snails,  and  hang 
bottles  of  sweet  water  for  flies  and 
wasps.  Fasten  loose  branches,  and 
gather  the  fruit  carefully  as  it  ripens. 
Examine  the  vines  all  round,  and 
remove  those  trailing  branches  which 
are  produced  so  luxuriantly  at  this 
season  of  the  year.  Suff'er  not  the 
fruit  to  be  shaded  by  loose  and  un- 
profitable branches,  and  keep  the 
ground  clear  of  weeds,  which  other- 
wise will  impoverish  the  fruit. — 
September.  The  fruit  must  now 
be  gathered  carefully  every  day,  and 
the  best  t^me  for  this  purpose  is  an 
hour  after  sun-rise  :  such  as  is  ga- 
thered in  the  middle  of  the  day  is 
always  flabby  and  inferior.  The 
fruit  should  afterwards  be  laid  iii  a 
cool  place  till  wanted.  Grapes  as 
they  begin  to  ripen  will  be  in  continu- 
al danger  from  the  birds,  if  not  pro- 
perly watched  and  guarded.  Trans- 
plant gooseberries  and  currants,  and 
plant  strawberries  and  raspberries  : 
they  will  then  be  rooted  before  win- 
ter, and  flourish  the  succeeding  sea- 
son.— October.  It  is  a  useful 
practice  to  prime  the  peach  and 
'227     . 


O  11  G 


O  X 


nectarine  trees,  and  also  the  vines, 
as  it  invigorates  the  buds  in  the 
spring  of  the  year.  Cut  grapes  for 
preserving,  with  a  joint  of  the  vine 
to  each  bunch.  For  winter  keep- 
ing, gather  fruits  as  they  ripen. 
Transplant  all  garden  trees  for 
flowering,  prune  currant  bushes,  and 
preserve  the  stones  of  the  fruit  for 
sowing. — November.  Stake  up 
all  trees  planted  for  standards,  or 
the  winds  will  rock  them  at  the 
bottom,  and  the  frost  will  be  let  in 
and  destroy  them.  Throw  a  good 
quantity  of  peas  straw  about  them, 
and  lay  on  it  some  brick  bats  or 
pebbles  to  keep  it  fast :  this  will 
mellow  the  ground,  and  keep  the 
frost  from  the  roots.  Continue  to 
prune  wall  fruit-trees,  and  prune 
also  at  this  time  the  apple  and  pear 
kinds.  Pull  off  the  late  fruit  of 
figs,  orit  will  decay  the  branches. — 
December.  Pre])are  for  planting 
trees  where  they  will  be  wanted  in. 
the  spring,  by  digging  the  ground 
deep  and  turning  it  well,  in  the  place 
intended  for  planting.  Scatter  over 
the  borders  some  fresh  mould  and 
rotted  dung,  and  in  a  mild  day  dig 
it  in  with  a  three-pronged  fork. 
Look  over  the  orchard  trees,  and 
cut  away  superfluous  wood  and  dead 
branches.  Let  the  boughs  and  shoots 
stand  clear  of  each  other,  that  the 
air  may  pass  between,  and  the  fruit 
will  be  better  flavoured.  This  ma- 
nagement is  required  for  old  trees  : 
those  that  are  newly  planted  are  to 
be  preserved  by  covering  the  ground 
about  their  roots. 

.ORGEAT.  Boil  a  quart  of  new 
milk  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  sweet- 
en it  to  taste,  and  let  it  cool.  Then 
pour  it  gradually  over  three  ounces 
of  almonds,  and  twenty  bitter  al- 
monds that  have  been  blanched  and 
beaten  to  a  paste,  with  a  little  wa- 
ter to  prevent  oiling.  Boil  all  to- 
gether, and  stir  it  till  cold,  then 
add  half  a  glass  of  brandy. — Ano- 
ther way.  Blanch  and  pound  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  almonds,  and 
228 


thirty  bitter  ones,  with  a  spoonful 
of  water.  Stir  in  by  degrees  two 
pints  of  water,  and  three  pints  of 
milk,  and  strain  the  whole  through 
a  cloth.  Dissolve  half  a  pound  of 
fine  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water,  boil 
and  skim  it  well ;  mix  it  with  the 
other,  adding  two  spoonfuls  of 
orange-flower  water,  and  a  teacup- 
ful  of  the  best  brandy. 

ORGEAT  FOR  THE  SICK.  Beat 
two  ounces  of  almonds  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  orange-flower  water, 
and  a  bitter  almond  or  two  ;  then 
pour  a  quart  of  milk  and  water  to 
the  paste.  Sweeten  with  sugar, 
or  capillaire.  This  is  a  fine  drink 
for  those  who  feel  a  weakness  in  the 
chest.  In  the  gout  also  it  is  highly 
useful,  and  with  the  addition  of  half 
an  ounce  of  gum  arabic,  it  has  been 
found  to  allay  the  painfulness  of  the 
attendant  heat.  Half  a  glass  of 
brandy  may  be  added,  if  thought 
too  cooling  in  the  latter  complaint, 
and  the  glass  of  orgeat  may  be  put 
into  a  basin  of  warm  water. 

ORTOLANS.  Pick  and  singe, 
but  do  not  draw  them.  Tie  them 
on  a  bird  spit,  and  roast  them. 
Some  persons  like  slices  of  bacon 
tied  between  them,  but  the  taste  of 
it  spoils  the  flavour  of  the  ortolan. 
Cover  them  with  crumbs  of  bread. 

OX  CHEEK.  Soak  half  a  head 
three  hours,  and  clean  it  in  plenty 
of  water.  Take  oft'  all  the  meat, 
and  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  an 
onion,  a  sprig  of  sweet  herbs,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  allspice.  Lay  the 
bones  on  the  top,  pour  on  two  or 
three  quarts  of  water,  and  close  it 
down.  Let  it  stand  eight  or  ten 
hours  in  a  slow  oven,  or  simmer  it 
on  a  hot  hearth.  When  tender  skim 
off  the  fat,  and  put  in  celery,  or  any 
other  vegetable.  Slices  of  fried 
onion  may  be  put  into  it  a  little  be- 
fore it  is  taken  from  the  fire. 

OX  CHEEK  SOUP.  Break  the 
bones  of  the  cheek,  wash  it  clean, 
put  it  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  piece 
of  butter  at  the  bottom.     Add  half 


ox 


O  \  8 


a  pouiui  of  lean  ham  sliced,  one 
parsnip,  two  carrots,  three  onions, 
four  heads  of  celery,  cut  small,  and 
three  blades  of  mace.  Set  it  over 
a  slow  fire  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
then  add  a  gallon  of  water,  and  sim- 
mer it  gently  till  reduced  to  half  the 
quantity.  If  intended  as  soup  only, 
strain  it  off,  and  put  in  a  head  of 
sliced  celery,  with  a  little  browning, 
to  give  it  a  fine  colour.  Warm  two 
ouiices  of  vermicelli  and  put  into  it ; 
boil  it  ten  minutes,  and  pour  it  into 
a  tureen,  with  the  crust  of  a  French 
roll.  If  to  be  used  as  stew,  take 
up  the  cheek  as  whole  as  possible ; 
put  in  a  boiled  carrot  cut  in  small 
pieces,  a  slice  of  toasted  bread,  and 
some  cayenne  pepper.  Strain  the 
soup  through  a  hair  sieve  upon  the 
meat,  and  serve  it  up. 

OX  FEET.  These  are  very  nu- 
tricious,  in  whatever  way  they  are 
dressed.  If  to  be  eaten  warm,  boil 
them,  and  serve  them  up  in  a  nap- 
kin. Melted  butter  for  sauce,  with 
mustard,  and  a  large  spoonful  of 
vinegar.  Or  broil  them  very  tender, 
and  serve  them  as  a  brown  fricassee. 
The  liquor  will  do  to  make  jelly 
sweet  or  relishing,  and  likewise  to 
give  richness  to  soups  or  gravies. 
They  may  also  be  fried,  after  being 
cut  into  four  parts,  dipped  in^egg, 
and  properly  floured.  Fried  onions 
may  be  served  round  the  dish,'  with 
sauce  as  above.  Or  they  may  be 
baked  for  mock  turtle.  If  to  be 
eaten  cold,  they  only  require  mus- 
tard, pepper,  and  vinegar. — Ano- 
ther way.  Extract  the  bones  from 
the  feet,  and  boil  the  meat  quite 
tender;  then  put  it  into  a  frying- 
pan  with  a  little  butter.  After  a 
few  minutes,  add  some  chopped 
mint  and  parsley,  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  beat  up  fine,  half  a  pint  of 
gravy,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a 
little  salt  and  nutmeg.  Put  the 
meat  into  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  it. 

OX  FEET  JELLW  Take  a  heel 
that   has   been    onlv    scalded,    not 


boiled,  slit  it  in  two,  and  remove 
the  fat  from  between  the  claws. 
Simmer  it  gently  for  eight  hours  in 
a  quart  of  water,  till  reduced  to  a 
pint  and  half,  and  skim  it  clean 
while  it  is  doing.  This  strong  jelly 
is  useful  in  making  calves'  feet  jelly, 
or  may  be  added  to  mock  turtle, 
and  other  soups. 

OX  PALATES.  Boil  them  ten- 
der, blanch  and  scrape  them.  Rub 
them  with  pepper,  salt,  and  bread, 
and  fry  them  brown  on  both  sides. 
Pour  off  the  fat,  put  beef  or  mut- 
ton gravy  into  the  stewpan  for  sauce, 
with  an  anchovy,  a  little  lemon 
juice,  grated  nutmegand  salt.  Thick- 
en it  with  butter  rolled  in  flour: 
when  these  have  simmered  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour,  dish  them  up,  and 
garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 

OXFORD  DUMPLINS.  Mix  to- 
gether two  ounces  of  grated  bread, 
four  ounces  of  currants,  the  same  of 
shred  suet,  a  bit  of  lump  sugar,  a 
little  powdered  pimento,  and  plenty 
of  grated  lemon  peel.  Add  two  eggs 
and  a  little  milk  ;  then  divide  the 
whole  into  five  dumplins,  and  fry 
them  of  a  fine  yellow  brown.  Made 
with  half  the  quantity  of  flour,  in- 
stead of  bread,  they  are  very  excel- 
lent. Serve  them  up  with  sweet 
sauce. 

OXFORD  SAUSAGES.  Chop 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  pork,  and  the 
same  of  veal,  cleared  of  skin  and 
sinews.  Add  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  beef  suet,  mince  and  mix 
them  together.  Steep  the  crumb 
of  a  penny  loaf  in  water,  and  mix  it 
with  the  meat;  add  also  a  little 
dried  sage,  pepper  and  salt. 

OYSTER  LOAVES.  Open  a 
quart  of  fresh  oysters,  wash  and^ 
stew  them  in  their  own  liquor,  with 
two  anchovies,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  bit  of 
lemon  peel.  Drain  off"  the  liquor,  ^ 
boil  up  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter till  it  turns  brown  ;  add  half  a 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  boil  it  up 
again.     Put  in  some  pf  the  oyster 

22%;  ^ 


O  YS 


O  Y  S 


liquor,  with  a  little  gravy,  white 
wine,  mace,  nutmeg,  a  few  cloves, 
and  a  small  piece  of  shalot.  Stew 
all  together  till  it  becomes  as  thick 
as  cream ;  then  put  in  the  oysters, 
and  stew  them  a  few  minutes.  Fry 
some  bread  crumbs  in  butter  or 
sweet  dripping  till  they  are  crisp 
and  brown,  drain  them  well,  put  in 
the  oysters,  and  dish  them  up. — 
Another.  Open  the  oysters,  and 
save  the  liquor ;  wash  them  in  it, 
and  strain  it  through  a  sieve.  Put 
a  little  of  the  liquor  into  a  tosser, 
with  a  bit  of  butter  and  flour,  white 
pepper,  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  and  a 
little  cream.  Stew  the  oysters  in 
the  liquor,  cut  them  into  dice,  and 
then  put  them  into  rolls  sold  for  the 
purpose. 

OYSTER  PATTIES.  Put  a  fine 
puff-crust  into  small  pattipans,  and 
cover  with  paste,  with  a  bit  of  bread 
in  each.  While  they  are  baking, 
take  oft'  the  beard  of  the  oysters, 
cut  the  oysters  small,  put  them  in  a 
small  tosser,  with  a  dust  of  grated 
nutmeg,  white  pepper  and  salt,  a 
taste  of  lemon  peel,  shred  as  fine  as 
possible,  a  spoonful  of  cream,  and 
a  little  of  the  oyster  liquor.  Simmer 
them  together  a  few  minutes,  and 
fill  the  pattipans  as  soon  as  they 
are  baked,  first  taking  out  the  bread. 
A  bread  crust  should  be  put  into  all 
patties,  to  keep  them  hollow  while 
baking. 

OYSTER  PIE.  Open  the  oys- 
ters, take  off*  the  beards,  parboil 
the  oysters,  and  strain  off"  the  liquor. 
Parboil  some  sweetbreads,  cut  them 
in  slices,  place  them  in  layers  with 
the  oysters,  and  season  very  lightly 
with  salt,  pepper  and  mace.  Then 
jadd  half  a  teacup  of  liquor,  and  the 
same  of  gravy.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  ; 
and  before  the  pie  is  sent  to  table, 
put  in  a  teacup  of  cream,  a  little 
more  oyster  liquor,  and  a  cup  of 
white  gravy,  all  warmed  together, 
but  not  boiled. 

OYSTER  SAUCE.  Save  the  li- 
quor in  opening  the  oysters,  boi'  it 
•230 


with  the  beards,  a  bit  of  mace  and 
lemon  peel.  In  the  mean  time, 
throw  the  oysters  into  cold  water, 
and  drain  it  off*.  Strain  the  liquor, 
put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  the  oys- 
ters, and  as  much  butter,  mixed 
with  a  little  milk,  as  will  make  sauce 
enough;  but  first  rub  a  little  flour 
with  it.  Set  them  over  the  fire,  and 
keep  stirring  all  the  time.  When 
the  butter  has  boiled  once  or  twice, 
take  them  off^,  and  keep  the  sauce- 
pan near  the  fire,  but  not  on  it ;  for 
if  done  too  much,  the  oysters  will 
be  hard.  Squeeze  in  a  little  lemon 
juice,  and  serve  it  up.  If  for  com- 
pany, a  little  cream  is  a  great  im- 
provement. *  Observe,  the  oysters 
will  thin  the  sauce,  and  therefore 
allow  butter  accordingly. 

OYSTER  SOUP.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  ten  hard  eggs,  and  the  hard  part 
of  two  quarts  of  oysters,  in  a  mor- 
tar, and  put  them  to  two  quarts  of 
fish  stock.  Simmer  all  together  for 
half  an  hour,  and  strain  it  off".  Hav- 
ing cleared  the  oysters  of  the  beards, 
and  washed  them  well,  put  them  in- 
to the  soup,  and  let  it  simmer  five 
minutes."  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  six 
raw  eggs,  and  add  them  to  the  soup. 
Stir  it  all  well  together  one  way,  by 
the  side  of  the  fire,  till  it  is  thick  and 
smooth,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Serve 
up  all  together. 

OYSTER  MOUTH  SOUP.  Make 
a  rich  mutton  broth,  with  two  large 
onions,  three  blades  of  mace,  and  a 
little  black  pepper.  When  strained, 
pour  it  on  a  hundred  and  fifty  oys- 
ters, without  the  beards,  and  a  bit 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Simmer  it 
gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and 
serve  up  the  soup. 

OYSTERS.  Of  the  several  kinds 
of  oysters,  the  Pyfleet,  Colchester, 
and  Milford,  are  much  the  best. 
The  native  Milton  are  fine,  being 
white  and  fleshy  ;  but  others  may 
be  made  to  possess  both  these  qua- 
lities in  some  degree,  by  proper 
feeding.  Colchester  oysters  come 
to   market    early    in    August,    the 


P  A  I 


PA  I 


Milton  in  October,  and  are  in  the 
highest  perfection  about  Christmas, 
but  continue  in  season  till  the  mid- 
dle of  May.  When  alive  and  good, 
the  shell  closes  on  the  knife  ;  but  if 
an  oyster  opens  its  mouth,  it  will 
soon  be  good  for  nothing.  Oysters 
should  be  eaten  the  minute  they  are 
opened,  with  their  own  liquor  in  the 
under  shell,  or  the  delicious  flavour 
will  be  lost.  The  rock  oyster  is  the 
largest,  but  if  eaten  raw  it  tastes 
coarse  and  brackish,  but  may  be  im- 
proved by  feeding.  In  order  to  this, 
cover  the  oysters  with  clean  water, 
and  allow  a  pint  of  salt  to  about  two 
gallons  ;  this  will  cleanse  them  from 
the  mud  and  sand  contracted  in  the 
bed.  After  they  have  lain  twelve 
hours,  change  it  for  fresh  salt  and 
water ;  and  in  twelve  hours  more 
they  will  be  fit  to  eat,  and  will  con- 


tinue in  a  good  state  for  two  or  ^hree 
days.  At  the  time  of  high  water  in 
the  place  from  whence  they  were 
taken,  they  will  open  their  shells,  in 
expectation  of  receiving  their  usual, 
food.  The  real  Colchester  or  Py- 
fleet  barrelled  oysters,  that  are  pack- 
ed at  the  beds,  are  better  without 
being  put  into  water;  they  are  care- 
fully and  tightly  packed,  and  must 
not  be  disturbed  till  wanted  for  the 
table.  In  temperate  weather  these 
will  keep  good  for  a  week  or  ten 
days.  To  preserve  barrelled  oysters 
however,  the  best  way  is  to  remove 
the  upper  hoop,  so  that  the  head 
may  fall  down  upon  the  oysters,  and 
then  to  place  a  weight  upon  it.  This 
will  compress  the  oysters,  keep  in 
the  liquor,  and  preserve  them  for 
several  days. 


Pain  in  the  ear.  This  com- 
plaint is  sometimes  so  prevalent  as 
to  resemble  an  epidemic,  particular- 
ly amongst  children.  The  most  ef- 
fectual remedy  yet  discovered  has 
been  a  clove  of  garlic,  steeped  for 
a  few  minutes  in  warm  sallad  oil, 
and  put  into  the  ear,  rolled  up  in 
muslin  or  fine  linen.  When  the  gar- 
lic has  accomplished  its  object,  and 
is  removed  from  the  ear,  it  should 
be  replaced  with  cotton,  to  prevent 
the  patient  taking  cold. 

PAINT.  Painted  doors  and  win- 
dows may  be  made  to  look  well  for 
a  considerable  time, if  properly  clean- 
ed. A  cloth  should  never  be  used, 
for  it  leaves  some  lint  behind  ;  but 
take  oflT  the  dust  with  a  painter's 
brush,  or  a  pair  of  bellows.  When 
the  painting  is  soiled  or  stained,  dip 
a  sponge  or  a  bit  of  flannel  in  soda 
water,  wash  it  off  quickly,  and  dry 
it  immediately,  or  the  strength  of 
the    soda  will   eat  ofl'  the   colour. 


When  wainscot  requires  scouring,  it 
should  be  done  from  the  top  down- 
wards, and  the  soda  be  prevented 
from  running  on  the  uncleaned  part 
as  much  as  possible,  or  marks  will 
appear  after  the  whole  is  finished. 
One  person  should  dry  the  board 
with  old  linen,  as  fast  as  the  other 
has  scoured  off  the  dirt,  and  washed 
away  the  soda. 

PAINT  FOR  IRON.  For  pre- 
serving palisadoes  and  other  kinds 
of  iron  work  exposed  to  the  weather, 
heat  some  common  litharge  in  a 
shovel  over  the  fire.  Then  scatter 
over  it  a  small  quantity  of  sulphur, 
and  grind  it  in  oil.  This  lead  will 
reduce  it  to  a  good  lead  colour,  which 
will  dry  very  quickly,  get  remark- 
ably hard,  and  resist  the  weather 
better  than  any  other  common  paint. 

PAINTINGS.  Oil  paintings  fre- 
quently become  smoked  or  dirty, 
and  in  order  to  their  being  properly 
cleaned,  require  to  be  treated  with 
231 


PAL 


'^  A  N 


the  greatest  care.  Dissolve  a  little 
common  salt  in  some  stale  urine, 
dip  a  woollen  cloth  in  the  liquid,  and 
rub  the  paintings  over  with  it  till 
the^r  are  quite  clean.  Then  wash 
them  with  a  sponge  and  clean  water, 
dry  them  gradually,  and  rub  them 
over  with  a  clean  cloth. 

PALING  PRESERVED.  The 
following  cheap  and  valuable  com- 
position will  preserve  all  sorts  of 
wood  work  exposed  to  the  vicissi- 
tudes of  the  weather.  Take  some 
well-burnt  lime,  and  expose  it  to  the 
air  till  it  falls  to  powder,  without 
putting  any  water  to  it,  and  mix  with 
it  two  thirds  of  wood  ashes,  and  one 
third  of  fine  sand.  Sift  the  whole 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  work  it  up 
with  linseed  oil  to  the  consistence 
of  common  paint,  taking  care  to 
grind  it  fine,  and  mix  it  well  toge- 
ther. The  composition  may  be  im- 
proved by  the  addition  of  an  equal 
quantity  of  coal  tar  with  the  linseed 
oil ;  and  two  coats  of  it  laid  on  any 
kind  of  weather  boards,  will  be  found 
superior  to  any  kind  of  paint  used 
for  that  purpose. 

PALPITATION  OF  THE  HEART. 
Persons  of  a  full  habit  may  find  re- 
lief in  bleeding  ;  but  where  it  is  ac- 
companied with  nervou-s  affections, 
as  is  generally  the  case,  bleeding 
must  by  all  means  be  avoided.  Fre- 
quent bathing  the  feet  in  warm  wa- 
ter, a  stimulating  plaster  applied  to 
the  left  side,  and  gentle  exercise, 
are  the  most  proper. 

PALSY.  The  luxurious,  the  se- 
dentary, and  those  who  have  suffered 
great  anxiety  and  distress  of  mind, 
are  the  most  subject  to  this  disorder, 
which  generally  attacks  the  left 
side,  and  is  attended  with  numbness 
and  drowsiness.  The  parts  affected 
ought  to  be  frequently  rubbed  with 
a  flesh  brush,  or  with  the  hand. 
Blisters,  warm  plasters,  volatile  lini- 
ments, and  electricity  should  like- 
wise be  employed.  The  following 
electuary  is  also  recommended.  Mix 
an  ounce  of  flour  of  mustard,  and 
232 


an  ounce  of  the  conserve  of  roses, 
in  some  syrup  of  ginger  ;  and  take 
a  tea-spoonful  of  it  three  or  four 
times  a  day. 

PANADA.  To  make  panada  in 
five  minutes,  set  a  little  water  on  the 
fire  with  a  glass  of  white  wine,  some 
sugar,  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg  and 
lemon  peel,  grating  meanwhile  some 
crumbs  of  bread.  The  moment  the 
mixture  boils  up,  keeping  it  still  on 
the  fire,  put  in  the  crumbs,  and  let 
it  boil  as  fast  as  it  can.  When  of  a 
proper  thickness  just  to  drink,  take 
it  ofl'. — Another  way.  Make  the 
panada  as  above,  but  instead  of  a 
glass  of  wine,  put  in  a  tea-spoonful 
of  rum,  a  little  butter  and  sugar. 
This  makes  a  very  pleasant  article 
for  the  sick. — Another.  Put  into 
the  water  a  bit  of  lemon  peel,  and 
mix  in  the  crumbs  :  when  nearly 
boiled  enough,  add  some  lemon  or 
orange  syrup.  Observe  to  boil  all 
the  ingredients ;  for  if  any  be  added 
after,  the  panada  will  break,  and 
not  turn  to  jelly. 

PANCAKES.  Make  a  light  bat- 
ter of  eggs,  flour,  and  milk.  Fry  it 
in  a  small  pan,  in  hot  dripping  or 
lard.  Salt,  nutmeg,  or  ginger,  may 
be  added.  Sugar  and  lemon  should 
be  served,  to  eat  with  them.  When 
eggs  are  very  scarce,  the  batter  may 
be  made  of  flour  and  small  beer, 
with  the  addition  of  a  little  ginger  ; 
or  clean  snow,  with  flour,  and  a  very 
little  milk,  will  serve  instead  of  egg. 
Fine  pancakes,  fried  without  butter 
or  lard,  are  made  as  follows.  Beat 
six  fresh  eggs  extremely  well,  strain 
and  mix  them  with  a  pint  of  cream, 
four  ounces  of  sugar,  a  glass  of 
wine,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  it  almost 
as  thick  as  ordinary  pancake  batter, 
but  not  quite.  Heat  the  fryingpan 
tolerably  hot,  wipe  it  with  a  clean 
cloth,  and  pour  in  the  batter  so  as 
to  make  the  pancakes  thin. — New 
England  pancakes  are  made  of  a 
pint  of  cream,  mixed  with  five  spoon- 
fuls of  fine  flour,  seven  yolks   and 


PAP 

four  whites  of  eggs,  and  a  very  little 
salt.  They  are  then  fried  very  thin 
in  fresh  butter,  and  sent  to  table 
six  or  eight  at  once,  with  sugar  and 
cinnamon  strewed  between  them. — • 
Another  way  to  make  cream  pan- 
cakes. Stir  a  pint  of  cream  gradu- 
ally into  three  spoonfuls  of  flour, 
and  beat  them  very  smooth.  Add 
to  this  six  eggs,  half  a  pound  of 
melted  butter,  and  a  little  sugar. 
These  pancakes  will  fry  from  their 
own  richness,  without  either  butter 
or  lard.  Run  the  batter  over  the 
pan  as  thin  as  possible,  and  when 
the  pancakes  are  just  coloured  they 
are  ilone  enough. 

PAP  BREAD.  To  prepare  a  light 
nourishing  food  for  young  children, 
pour  scalding  water  on  some  thin 
slices  of  good  white  bread,  and  let 
it  stand  uncovered  till  it  cools. 
Then  drain  off  the  water,  bruise  the 
bread  tine,  and  mix  it  with  as  much 
new  milk  as  will  make  a  pap  of  a 
moderate  thickness.  It  will  be  warm 
enough  for  use,  without  setting  it 
on  the  fire.  It  is  common  to  add 
sugar,  but  the  pap  is  better  without 
it,  as  is  almost  all  food  intended  for 
children  ;  and  the  taste  will  not  re- 
quire it,  till  habit  makes  it  familiar. 

PAPER.  All  sorts  of  paper  im- 
prove by  keeping,  if  laid  in  a  dry 
place,  and  preserved  from  mould 
and  damp.  It  is  bought  much 
cheaper  by  the  ream,  than  by  the 
quire.  The  expense  of  this  article 
is  chiefly  occasioned  by  the  enor- 
mous duty  laid  upon  it,  and  the  ne- 
cessity of  importing  foreign  rags  to 
supply  the  consumption.  If  more 
care  were  taken  in  families  gene- 
rally, to  preserve  the  rags  and  cut- 
tings of  linen  from  being  wasted, 
there  would  be  less  need  of  foreign 
imports,  and  paper  might  be  manu- 
factured a  little  cheaper. 

PAPER  HANGINGS.  To  clean 
these  properly,  first  blow  ofi"  the 
dust  with  the  bellows,  and  then 
wipe  the  paper  downwards  in  the 
slightest  manner  with  the  crumb  of 


t 


PA  R 


a  stale  white  loaf.  Do  not  cross  the 
paper,  nor  go  upwards,  but  begin  at 
the  top,  and  the  dirt  of  the  paper 
and  the  crumbs  will  fall  together. 
Observe  not  to  wipe  more  than  half  - 
a  yard  at  a  stroke,  and  after  doing 
all  the  upper  part,  go  round  again, 
beginning  a  little  above  where  you 
left  off'.  If  it  be  not  done  very  light- 
ly, the  dirt  will  adhere  to  the  paper; 
but  if  properly  attended  to,  the  pa- 
per will  look  fresh  and  new. 

PAPER  PASTE.  To  make  a 
strong  paste  for  paper,  take  two 
large  spoonfuls  of  fine  flour,  and  as 
much  pounded  rosin  as  will  lie  upon 
a  shilling.  Mix  them  up  with  as 
much  strong  beer  as  will  make  the 
paste  of  a  due  consistence,  and  boil 
it  half  an  hour.  It  is  best  used 
cold. 

PARSLEY.  To  preserve  parsley 
through  the  winter,  gather  some  fine 
fresh  sprigs  in  May,  June,  or  July. 
Pick  and  wash  them  clean,  set  on  a 
stewpan  half  full  of  water,  put  a  lit- 
tle salt  in  it,  boil  and  scum  it  clean. 
Then  add  the  parsley,  let  it  boil  for 
two  minutes,  and  take  it  out  and  lay 
it  on  a  sieve  before  the  fire,  that  it 
may  be  dried  as  quick  as  possible. 
Put  it  by  in  a  tin  box,  and  keep  it 
in  a  dry  place.  WiketTwanted,  lay 
it  in  a  basin„  and"  cover  it  with  waim 
water  for  a  few  minutes  before  you 
use  it. 

PARSLEY  AND  BUTTER.  Wash 
some  parsley  very  clean,  and  pick 
it  carefully  leaf  by  leaf.  Put  a  tea-  ^ 
spoonful  of  salt  into  half  a  pint  of 
boiling  water,  boil  the  parsley  in  it 
about  ten  minutes,  drain  it  on  a 
sieve,  mince  it  quite  fine,  and  then 
bruise  it  to  a  pulp.  Put  it  into  a 
sauce  boat,  and  mix  with  it  by  de 
grees  about  half  a  pint  of  good 
melted  butter,  only  do  not  put  so 
much  flour  to  it,  as  the  parsley  will 
be  sure  to  add  to  its  thickness. 
Parsley  and  butter  should  not  be 
poured  over  boiled  dishes,  but  be 
sent  up  in  a  boat.  The  delicacy  of 
this   elegant   and    innocent   relish, 

H  h  233 


■:".l 

the   paRl< 


depends  upon  the  parsley  being 
minced  very  fine.  With  the  addition 
of  a  slice  of  lemon  cut  into  dice,  a 
little  allspice  and  vinegar,  it  is  made 
•^6to  Dutch  sauce. 

PARSLEY  PIE.  Lay  a  fowl,  or 
a  few  bones  of  the  scrag  of  veal, 
seasoned,  into  a  dish.  Scald  a  cul- 
lenderful  of  picked  parsley  in  milk  ; 
season  it,  and  add  it  to  the  fowl  or 
meat,  with  a  tea-cupful  of  any  sort 
of  good  broth  or  gravy.  When  baked, 
pour  into  it  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
cream  scalded,  with  a  little  bit  of 
butter  and  flour.  Shake  it  rouud, 
and  mix  it  with  the  gravy  in  the  dish. 
Lettuces,  white  mustard  leaves,  or 
spinach,  well  scalded,  may  be  added 
to  the  parsley. 

PARSLEY  SAUCE.  \nieD  no 
parsley  leaves  are  to  be  had,  tie  up 
a  little  parsley  seed  in  a  piece  of 
clean  muslin,  and  boil  it  in  water 
ten  ininutes.  I  >e  this  water  to  melt 
the  butter,  and  throw  into  it  a  little 
boiled  spinach  minced,  to  look  like 
parsley. 

PARSNIPS.  Carrots  and  parsnips, 
when  laid  up  for  the  winter,  should 
have  the  tops  cut  off  close,  be  clear- 
ed of  the  rough  earth,  and  kept  in  a 
dry  place.  Lay  a  bed  of  dry  sand 
on  the  floor,  two  or  three  inches 
thick,  put-  the  roots  upon  it  close 
together,  with  the  top  of  one  to  the 
bottom  of  the  next,  and  so  on.  Cover 
the  first  layer  with  sand  two  inches 
thick,  and  then  place  another  layer 

"l  of  roots,  and  go  on  thus  till  the  whole 
store  are  laid  up.  Cover  the  heap 
with  dry  straw,  laid  on  tolerably 
thick.  Beet  roots,  salsify,  Ham- 
burgh parsley  roots,  horseradish, 
aud  turnips,  should  all  be  laid  up  in 
the  same  manner,  as  a  supply  against 
frostyiireather,  when  they  cannot  be 
got  out  of  the  e^round. 

PARSNIPS  BOILED.    These  re- 

?  quire  to  be  done  very  tender,  and 
may  be  served  whole  with  melted 
butter,  or  beaten  smooth  in  a  bowl, 
warmed  up  with  a  little  cream,  but- 
ter, flour,  and  salt.  Parsnips  are 
2:U 


F  A  K 

highly  nutricious,  and  make  an  agree- 
able sauce  to  salt  fish. 

PARSNIPS  FRICASSEED.  Boil 
them  in  milk  till  they  are  soft.  Then 
cut  them  lengthways  into  bits,  two 
or  three  inches  long,  and  simmer 
them  in  a  white  sauce,  made  of  two 
spoonfuls  of  broth.  Add  a  bit  of 
mace,  half  a  cupful  of  cream,  a  little 
flour  and  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

PARSNIP  WINE.  To  twelve 
pounds  of  sliced  parsnips,  add  four 
gallons  of  water,  and  boil  them  till 
they  become  soft.  Squeeze  the  li- 
quor well  out  of  them,  run  it  through 
a  sieve,  and  add  to  every  gallon  three 
pounds  of  lump  sugar.  Boil  the 
whole  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and 
when  it  is  nearly  cold,  add  a  Httle 
yeast.  Let  it  stand  in  a  tub  for  ten 
days,  stirring  it  from  the  bottom 
every  day,  and  then  put  it  into  a 
cask  for  twelve  months.  As  it  wt)rks 
over,  fill  it  up  everv  day. 

PARTRIDGE  BOILED.  This 
species  of  game  is  in  season  in  the 
autumn.  If  the  birds  be  young,  the 
bill  is  of  a  dark  colour,  and  the  legs 
inclined  to  yellow.  When  fresh  and 
good,  the  vent  will  be  firm  ;  but  when 
stale,  this  part  will  look  greenish. 
Boiled  partridges  require  to  be 
trussed  the  same  as  chickens :  from 
twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes  will 
do  them  sufticiently.  Serve  them 
up  with  either  white  or  brown  mush- 
room sauce,  or  with  rice  stewed  in 
gravy,  made  pretty  thick,  and  sea- 
soned with  pepper  and  salt.  Pour 
the  sauce  over  them,  or  serve  them 
up  with  celery  sauce.  A  boiled 
pheasant  is  dressed  in  the  same  man- 
ner, allowing  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  for  the  cooking. 

PARTRIDGE  PIE.  Pick  and 
singe  four  partridges,  cut  off  the  legs 
at  the  knee,  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
chopped  parsley,  thyme,  and  mush- 
rooms. Lay  a  veal  steak  and  a  slice 
of  ham  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish, 
put  in  the  partridge,  and  half  a  pint 
of  good  broth.  Lay  puft'  paste  on 
the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  cover  with 


Pat 


PaV 


the  same;  brush  it  over  with  egg, 
and  bake  it  an  hour. 

PARTRIDGE  SOUP.  Skin  two 
old  partridges,  and  cut  them  into 
pieces,  with  three  or  four  slices  of 
ham,  a  stick  of  celery,  and  three 
large  onions  sliced.  Fry  them  all 
in  butter  till  brown,  but  take  care 
not  to  burn  them.  Then  put  them 
into  a  stewpan,  with  five  pints  of 
boiling  water,  a  few.peppercorns,  a 
shank  or  two  of  mutton,  and  a  little 
salt.  Stew  it  gently  two  hours, 
strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  put  it 
again  into  a  stewpan,  with  some 
stewed  celery  and  fried  bread.  When 
it  is  near  boiling,  skim  it,  pour  it 
into  a  tureen,  and  send  it  up  hot. 

PASTE  PUDDINGS.  Make  a 
paste  of  butter  and  flour,  roll  it  out 
thin,  and  spread  any  kind  of  jam, 
or  currants  over  it,  with  some  suet 
chopped  fine.  Roll  it  up  together, 
close  the  paste  at  both  ends,  and 
boil  it  in  a  cloth. 

PASTRY.  An  adept  in  pastry 
never  leaves  any  part  of  it  adhering 
to  the  board  or  dish,  used  in  making 
it.  It  is  best  when  rolled  on  mar- 
ble, or  a  very  large  slate.  In  very 
hot  weather,  the  butter  should  be 
put  into  cold  water  to  make  it  as 
firm  as  possible  ;  and  if  made  early 
in  the  morning,  and  preserved  from 
the  air  until  it  is  to  be  baked,  the 
pastry  will  be  found  much  better. 
An  expert  hand  will  use  much  less 
butter  and  produce  lighter  crust 
than  others.  Good  salt  butter  well 
washed,  will  make  a  fine  flaky  crust. 
When  preserved  fruits  are  used  in 
pastry,  they  should  not  be  baked 
long ;  and  those  that  have  been  done 
with  their  full  proportion  of  sugar, 
require  no  baking  at  all.  The  crust 
should  be  baked  in  a  tin  shape,  and 
the  fruit  be  added  afterwards  ;  or  it 
may  be  put  into  a  small  dish  or  tart 
pans,  and  the  covers  be  baked  on  a 
tin  cut  out  into  any  form. 

PATTIES.  Slice  some  chicken, 
turkey,  or  veal,  with  dressed  ham. 


or  sirloin  of  beef.  Add  some  pars- 
ley, thyme,  and  lemon  peel,  chopped 
very  fine.  Pound  all  together  in  a 
mortar,  and  season  with  salt  and 
white  pepper.  Line  the  pattipans 
with  puff"  paste,  fill  them  with  meat, 
lay  on  the  paste,  close  the  edges, 
cut  the  paste  round,  brush  it  over 
with  egg,  and  bake  the  patties  twenty 
minutes. 

PAVEMENTS.  For  cleaning 
stone  stairs,  and  hall  pavements, 
boil  together  half  a  pint  each  of  size 
and  stone-blue  water,  with  two  ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of  whiting,  and  two 
cakes  of  pipe-clay,  in  about  two 
quarts  of  water. — Wash  the  stone  ^ 
over  with  a  flannel  slightly  wetted 
in  this  mixture;  and  when  dry,  rub 
them  with  a  flannel  and  brush. 

PAYMENT  OF  RENT.  Rent 
due  for  tenements  let  from  year  to 
year,  is  commonly  paid  on  the  four 
quarter  days  ;  and  when  the  pay- 
ments are  regularly  made  at  the 
quarter,  the  tenant  cannot  be  de- 
prived of  possession  at  any  other 
time  than  at  the  end  of  a  complete 
year  from  the  commencement  of  his 
tenancy.  If  therefore  he  took  pos- 
session at  Midsummer,  he  must  quit 
at  Midsummer,  and  notice  thereof 
must  be  sent  at  or  before  the  pre- 
ceding Christmas.  A  similar  no- 
tice is  also  required  from  the  tenant 
to  the  landlord,  when  it  is  intended 
to  leave  the  premises. — Every  quar- 
ter's rent  is  deemed  a  separate  debt, 
for  which  the  landlord  can  bring  a 
separate  action,  or  distress  for  non- 
payment. The  landlord  himself  is 
the  proper  person  to  demand  rent: 
if  he  employs  another  person,  he 
must  be  duly  authorised  by  power  oi' 
attorney,  clearly  specifying  the  per- 
son from  whom,  and  the  premises 
for  which  the  rent  is  due :  or  the 
demand  will  be  insuflicient,  if  the 
tenant  should  be  inclined  to  evade 
payment.  The  following  is  the  form 
of  a  receipt  for  rent : — *  Received  of 
R.  C.  February  13,  1823,  the  sum 
235 


PEA 


PEA 


of  ten  pounds  twelve  shillings  for  a 
quarter's  rent,  due  at  Christmas  last.' 

*  £10  12  0  J.  W.  M.' 

PEA  FOWL.  These  require  to 
be  fed  the  same  as  turkeys.  They 
are  generally  so  shy,  that  they  are 
seldom  to  be  found  for  some  days  af- 
iev  hatching  ;  and  it  is  very  wrong 
to  pursue  them,  as  many  ignorant 
people  do,  under  the  idea  of  bring- 
ing them  home.  It  only  causes  the 
hen  to  carry  the  young  ones  through 
dangerous  places,  and  by  hurrying 
she  is  apt  to  tread  upon  them.  The 
cock  bird  kills  all  the  young  chick- 
ens he  can  get  at,  by  one  blow  on 
the  centre  of  the  head  with  his  bill, 
and  he  does  the  same  by  his  own 
brood,  before  the  feathers  of  the 
crown  come  out.  Nature  therefore 
directs  the  hen  to  hide  and  keep 
them  out  of  his  way,  till  the  feathers 
rise. 

PEA  POWDER.  Pound  toge- 
ther in  a  marble  mortar  half  an  ounce 
each  of  dried  mint  and  sage,  a  dram 
of  celery  seed,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
dram  of  cayenne,  and  rub  them 
through  a  fine  sieve.  This  gives  a 
very  savoury  relish  to  pea  soup, 
and  to  water  gruel.  A  dram  of  all- 
spice, or  black  pepper,  may  be 
pounded  with  the  above,  as  an  ad- 
dition, or  instead  of  the  cayenne. 

PEACH  WINE.  Take  peaches, 
apricots,  and  nectarines,  when  they 
are  full  of  juice,  pare  them,  and 
take  out  the  stones.  Then  slice 
them  thin,  pour  over  them  from  one 
to  two  gallons  of  water,  and  a  quart 
of  white  wine.  Simmer  the  whole 
gently  for  a  considerable  time,  till 
the  sliced  fruit  becomes  soft.  Pour 
off  the  liquid  part  into  another  ves- 
sel, containing  more  peaches  that 
have  been  sliced  but  not  heated  ; 
let  them  stand  for  twelve  hours, 
then  pour  out  the  liquid  part,  and 
press  what  remains  through  a  line 
hair  bag.  Let  the  whole  be  now 
put  into  a  cask  to  ferment,  and  add 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar  to 
236 


each  gallon.  Boil  an  ounce  of 
beaten  cloves  in  a  quart  of  white 
wine,  and  put  it  into  the  cask ;  the 
morella  wine  will  have  a  delicious 
flavour.  Wine  may  be  made  of 
apricots  by  only  bruising,  and  pour- 
ing the  hot  water  upon  them :  this 
wine  does  not  require  so  much 
sweetening.  To  give  it  a  curious 
flavour,  boil  an  ounce  of  mace,  and 
half  an  ounce  of  nutmegs,  in  a  quart 
of  white  wine  ;  and  when  the  wine 
is  fermenting,  pour  the  liquid  in 
hot.  In  about  twenty  days  or  a 
month,  these  wines  will  be  fit  for 
bottling. 

PEARL  BARLEY  PUDDING. 
Cleanse  a  pound  of  pearl  barley, 
and  put  to  it  three  quarts  of  milk, 
half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  grated 
nutmeg.  Bake  it  in  a  deep  pan, 
take  it  out  of  the  oven,  and  beat  up 
six  eggs  with  it.  Then  butter  a 
dish,  pour  in  the  pudding,  and  bake 
it  again  an  hour. 

PEARLS.  To  make  artificial 
pearls,  take  the  blay  or  bleak  fish, 
which  is  very  common  in  the  rivers 
near  London,  and  scrape  off  the  fine 
silvery  scales  from  the  belly.  Wash 
and  rub  them  in  water  ;  let  the  wa- 
ter settle,  and  a  sediment  will  be 
found  of  an  oily  consistence.  A  lit- 
tle of  this  is  to  be  dropped  into  a 
hollow  glass  bead  of  a  bluish  tint, 
and  shaken  about,  so  as  to  cover  all 
the  internal  surface.  After  this  the 
bead  is  filled  up  with  melted  white 
wax,  to  give  it  weight  and  solidity. 

PEARS.  Large  ones,  when  in- 
tended to  be  kept,  should  be  tied 
and  hung  up  by  the  stalk. 

PEAS.  Young  green  peas,  well 
dressed,  are  one  of  the  greatest  de- 
licacies of  the  vegetable  kingdom. 
They  must  be  quite  young  ;  it  is 
equally  indispensable  that  they  be 
fresh  gathered,  and  cooked  as  soon 
as  they  are  shelled,  for  they  soon 
lose  both  their  colour  and  sweet- 
ness. Of  course  they  should  never 
be   purchased  ready    shelled.     To 


V  E  A 


1>  K  A 


have  them  in  perfection,  tiiey  must 
be  gathered  the  same  day  that  they 
are  dressed,  and  be  put  on  to  boil 
within  half"  an  hour  after  they  are 
shelled.  As  large  and  small  peas 
cannot  be  boiled  together,  the  small 
ones  should  be  separated  from  the 
rest,  by  being  passed  trough  a  riddle 
or  coarse  sieve.  For  a  peck  of  young- 
peas,  which  will  not  be  more  than 
sufficient  for  two  or  three  persons, 
after  they  are  shelled,  set  on  a 
saucepan  with  a  gallon  of  water. 
When  it  boils,  put  in  the  peas  with 
a  table-spoonfiil  of  salt.  Skim  it 
well,  keep  them  quickly  boiling  from 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  according 
to  their  age  and  size.  To  judge 
whether  they  are  done  enough,  take 
some  out  with  a  spoon  and  taste  them, 
but  be  careful  not  to  boil  them  be- 
yond the  point  of  perfection.  When 
slightly  indented,  and  done  enough, 
drain  them  on  a  hair  sieve.  Put 
them  into  a  pie  dish,  and  lay  some 
small  bits  of  butter  on  the  peas  ;  put 
another  dish  over  them,  and  turn 
them  over  and  over,  in  order  to  dif- 
fuse the  butter  equally  among  them. 
Or  send  them  to  table  plain  from  the 
saucepan,  with  melted  butter  in  a 
sauce  tureen.  Garnish  the  dish  with 
a  few  sprigs  of  mint,  boiled  by  them- 
selves. 

PEAS  AND  BACON.  Cut  a 
piece  of  nice  streaked  bacon,  lay  it 
in  water  to  take  out  some  of  the  salt, 
aud  boil  it  with  some  dried  peas,  in 
» little  water.  Add  two  carrots  or 
parsnips,  two  onions,  and  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs.  When  the  peas  are 
done  enough,  pulp  them  through  a 
culllender  or  sieve,  and  serve  them 
over  the  bacon. 

PEAS  CULTIVATED.  Instead 
of  sowing  peas  in  straight  rows,  they 
should  be  formed  into  circles  of  three 
or  four  feet  diameter,  with  a  space 
of  two  feet  between  each  circle.  By 
this  means  they  will  blossom  nearer 
the  ground,  than  when  enclosed  in 
long  rows,  and  will  ripen  much  soon- 
er.   Or  if  set  in  straight  rows,  a  bed 


of  ten  or  twelve  ieet  wide  should  be 
left  between,  for  onions  and  carrots, 
or  any  crops  which  do  not  grow  tall. 
The  peas  will  not  be  drawn  up  so 
much,  but  will  grow  stronger,  and 
be  more  productive.  Scarlet  beans 
should  be  treated  in  the  same  man- 
ner. 

PEAS  AND  PORK.  Two  pounds 
of  the  belly  part  of  pickled  pork  will 
make  very  good  broth  for  peas  soup, 
if  the  pork  be  not  too  salt.  If  it  has 
been  in  salt  several  days,  it  must  be 
laid  in  water  the  night  before  it  is 
used.  Put  on  three  quarts  of  soft 
water,  or  liquor  in  which  meat  has 
been  boiled,  with  a  quart  of  peas, 
and  let  it  boil  gently  for  two  hours. 
Then  put  in  the  pork,  and  let  it  sim- 
mer for  an  hour  or  more,  till  it  is 
quite  tender.  When  done,  wash  the 
pork  clean  in  hot  water,  send  it  up 
in  a  dish,  or  cut  into  small  pieces 
and  put  with  the  soup  into  the  tu- 
reen. 

PEAS  PORRIDGE.  Boil  the 
peas,  and  pulp  them  through  a  cul- 
lender. Heat  them  up  in  a  saucepan 
with  some  butter,  chopped  parsley 
and  chives,  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt. 

PEAS  PUDDING.  Soak  the 
peas  an  hour  or  two  before  they  are 
boiled  ;  and  when  nearly  done,  beat 
them  up  with  salt  and  pepper,  an 
eg§,  and  a  bit  of  butter.  Tie  it  up 
in  a  cloth,  and  boil  it  half  an  hour. 

PEAS  SOUP.  Save  the  liquor 
of  boiled  pork  or  beef :  if  too  salt, 
dilute  it  with  water,  or  use  fresh  wa- 
ter only,  adding  the  bones  of  roast 
beef,  a  ham  or  gammon  bone,  or 
an  anchovy  or  two.  Simmer  these 
with  some  good  whole  or  split  peas  ; 
the  smaller  the  quantity  of  water  at 
first  the  better.  Continue  to  sim- 
mer till  the  peas  will  pulp  through 
a  cullender  ;  then  set  on  the  pulp  to 
stew,  with  more  of  the  liquor  that 
boiled  the  peas,  two  carrots,  a  tur- 
nip, a  leek,  and  a  stick  of  chopped 
celery,  till  all  is  quite  tender.  The 
last  requires  less  time,  an  hour  will 
23^ 


PER 


P  ET 


do  it.  When  ready,  put  into  a  tu- 
reen some  fried  bread  cut  into  dice, 
dried  mint  rubbed  fine,  pepper  and 
salt  if  needed,  and  pour  in  the  soup. 
When  there  is  plenty  of  vegetables, 
no  meat  is  necessary  ;  but  if  meat 
be  preferred,  a  pig's  foot  or  ham 
bone  may  be  boiled  with  the  peas, 
which  is  called  the  stock.  More 
butter  than  is  above  mentioned  will 
be  necessary,  if  the  soup  is  required 
to  be  very  rich. 

PENCIL  DRAWINGS.  To  pre- 
vent chalk  or  pencil  drawings  from 
rubbing  out,  it  is  only  necessary  to 
lay  them  oh  the  surface  of  some 
skim  milk,  free  from  cream  and 
grease ;  and  then  taking  off  the 
drawing  expeditiously,  and  hanging 
it  up  by  one  corner  to  dry.  A  thin 
wash  of  isinglass  will  also  answer 
the  same  purpose. 

PEPPER  POT.  To  three  quarts 
of  water,  put  any  approved  vegeta- 
bles ;  in  summer,  peas,  lettuce, 
spinach,  and  two  or  three  onions ; 
in  winter,  carrot,  turnip,  onions,  and 
celery.  Cut  them  very  small,  and 
stew  them  with  two  pounds  of  neck 
of  mutton,  and  a  pound  of  pickled 
pork.  Half  an  hour  before  serving, 
clear  a  lobster  or  crab  from  the 
shell,  and  put  it  into  the  stew,  add- 
ing a  little  salt  and  cayenne.  Some 
people  choose  very  small  suet  dump- 
lings, boiled  in  the  above,  or  fowl 
may  be  used  instead  of  mutton. 
A  pepper  pot  may  indeed  be  made 
of  various  things,  and  is  understood 
to  consist  of  a  proper  mixture  of 
fish,  flesh,  fowl,  vegetables,  and 
pulse.  A  small  quantity  of  rice 
should  be  boiled  with  the  whole. 

PEPPERMINT  DROPS.  Pound 
and  sift  four  ounces  of  double-re- 
fined sugar,  and  beat  it  with  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  till  perfectly 
smooth.  Then  add  sixty  drops  of 
oil  of  peppermint ;  beat  it  well, 
drop  it  on  white  paper,  and  dry  it 
at  a  distance  from  the  fire. 

PERCH.  When  of  a  good  size, 
as  iu  Holland,  they  arc  a  rcmark- 
238 


ably  fine  fresh-water  fish,  though 
not  so  delicate  as  carp  or  tench. 
Clean  them  carefully,  and  if  to  be 
boiled,  put  them  into  a  fish-kettle, 
with  as  much  cold  spring  water  as 
will  cover  them,  and  add  a  handful 
of  salt.  Set  them  on  a  quick  fire 
till  they  boil,  and  then  place  them 
on  one  side  to  boil  gently  for  about 
ten  minutes,  according  to  their  size. 
If  to  be  fried,  wipe  them  on  a  dry 
cloth,  after  they  have  been  well 
cleaned  and  washed,  and  flour  them 
lightly  all  over.  Fry  them  about  ten 
minutes  in  hot  lard  or  dripping,  lay 
them  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  and 
send  them  up  on  a  hot  dish.  Gar- 
nish with  sprigs  of  green  parsley, 
and  serve  them  with  anchovy  sauce. 

PERFUMERY.  Oil  of  lavender 
and  other  essences  are  frequently 
adulterated  with  a  mixture  of  the 
oil  of  turpentine,  which  may  be  dis- 
covered by  dipping  a  piece  of  pa- 
per or  rag  into  the  oil  to  be  tried, 
and  holding  it  to  the  fire.  The  fine 
scented  oil  will  quickly  evaporate, 
and  leave  the  smell  of  the  turpen- 
tine distinguishable,  if  the  essence 
has  been  adulterated  with  this  in- 
gredient. 

PERMANENT  INK.  This  use- 
ful article  for  marking  linen  is  com- 
posed of  nitrate  of  silver,  or  lunar 
caustic,  and  the  tincture  or  infusion 
of  galls  ;  in  the  proportion  of  one 
dram  of  the  former  in  a  dry  state, 
to  two  drams  of  the  latter.  The 
linen,  cotton,  or  other  fabric,  must 
be  first  wetted  with  the  following 
liquid  ;  namely,  an  ounce  of  the 
salt  of  tartar,  dissolved  in  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  water  ;  and  must  be 
perfectly  dry  before  any  attempt  is 
made  to  write  upon  it. 

PETTITOES.  Boil  them  very 
gently  in  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
along  with  the  liver  and  the  heart. 
Then  cut  the  meat  fine,  split  the 
feet,  and  simmer  them  till  they  are 
quite  tender.  Thicken  with  a  bit 
of  butter,  a  little  flour,  a  spoonfed 
of  cream,  and  a  little  pepper  and 


PIC 


PIC 


salt.  Give  it  a  boil  up,  pour  the  li- 
quor over  a  sippets  of  bread,  and 
place  the  feet  on  the  mince. 

PEWTER  AND  TIN.  Dish  co- 
vers and  pewter  requisites  should  be 
wiped  dry  immediately  after  being 
used,  and  kept  free  from  steam  or 
damp,  which  would  prevent  much  of 
the  trouble  in  cleaning  them.  Where 
the  polish  is  gone  off,  let  the  articles 
be  first  rubbed  on  the  outside  with  a 
little  sweet  oil  laid  on  a  piece  of  soft 
linen  cloth.  Then  clear  it  off  with 
pure  whitening  on  linen  cloths,  which 
will  restore  the  polish. 

PHEASANTS.  The  cock  bird  is 
reckoned  the  best,  except  when  the 
hen  is  with  eg^.  If  young,  its  spurs 
are  short  and  blunt ;  but  if  old,  they 
are  long  and  sharp.  A  large  phea- 
sant will  require  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  to  boil ;  if  small,  half  an  hour. 
If  for  roasting,  it  should  be  done  the 
same  as  a  turkey.  Serve  it  up  with 
a  fine  gravy,  including  a  very  smaii 
piece  of  garlic,  and  bread  sauce  or 
fried  bread  crumbs  instead.  When 
cold  the  meat  may  be  made  into  ex- 
cellent patties,  but  its  flavour  should 
not  be  overpowered  with  lemon.  For 
the  manner  of  trussing  a  pheasant  or 
partridge,  see  Plate. 

PHOSPHORIC  MATCH  BOT- 
TLE. Two  thirds  of  calcined  oyster 
shells,  and  one  third  of  sulphur,  put 
into  a  hot  crucible  for  an  hour,  and 
afterwards  exposed  to  the  air  for  half 
an  hour,  become  phosphorus.  This 
is  put  into  a  bottle,  and  when  used 
to  procure  a  light,  a  very  small  quan- 
tity is  taken  out  on  the  point  of  a 
common  match,  and  rubbed  upon  a 
cork,  which  produces  an  immediate 
flame.  If  a  small  piece  of  phosphorus 
be  put  into  a  vial,  and  a  little  boiling 
oil  poured  upon  it,  a  luminous  bottle 
will  be  formed  ;  for  on  taking  out  the 
cork,  to  adniit  the  atmospheric  air, 
the  empty  space  in  the  vial  will  be- 
come luminous  ;  and  if  the  bottle  be 
well  closed,  it  will  preserve  its  illu- 
minative power  for  several  months. 

PICKLE.     For  hams,  lo»inrnes,  or 


beef,  a  pickle  may  be  made  that  will 
keep  for  years,  if  boiled  and  skim- 
med as  often  as  it  is  used.  Provide 
a  deep  earthen  glazed  pan  that  will 
hold  four  gallons,  having  a  cover  that 
will  fit  close.  Put  into  it  two  gallons 
of  spring  water,  two  pounds  of  coarse 
sugar,  two  pounds  of  bay  salt,  two 
pounds  and  a  half  of  common  salt, 
and  half  a  pound  of  salt  petre.  Keep 
the  beef  or  hams  as  long  as  they  will 
bear,  before  they  are  put  into  the 
pickle ;  sprinkle  them  with  coarse 
sugar  in  a  pan,  and  let  them  drain. 
Then  rub  them  well  with  the  pickle, 
and  pack  them  in  close,  putting  as 
much  as  the  pan  Mill  hold,  so  that  the 
pickle  may  cover  them.  The  pickle 
is  not  to  be  boiled  at  first.  A  small 
ham  may  be  fourteen  days,  a  large 
one  three  weeks,  a  tongue  twelve 
days,  and  beef  in  proportion  to  its 
size.  They  will  eat  well  out  of  the 
pickle  without  drying.  When  they 
are  to  be  dried,  let  each  be  drained 
over  the  pan ;  and  when  it  will  drop  no 
longer,  take  a  clean  sponge  and  dry 
It  thoroughly.  Six  or  eight  hours 
will  smoke  them,  and  there  should 
be  only  a  little  saw-dust  and  wet 
straw  used  for  this  purpose  ;  but  if 
put  into  a  baker's  chimney,  they 
should  be  sown  up  in  a  coarse  cloth, 
and  hang  a  week. 

PICKLES.  The  free  or  frequent 
use  of  pickles  is  by  no  means  to  be 
recommended,  where  any  regard  is 
paid  to  health  In  general  they  are 
the  mere  vehicles  for  taking  a  certain 
portion  of  vinegar  and  spice,  and  in 
the  crisp  state  in  which  they  are  most 
admired  are  often  indigestible,  and 
of  course  penicious.  The  pickle 
made  to  preserve  cucumbers  and 
mangoes,  is  generally  so  strongly  im- 
pregnated with  garlic,  mustard,  and 
spice,  that  the  original  flavour  of  the 
vegetable,  is  quite  overpowered,  and 
the  vegetable  itself  becomes  the  mere 
absorbent  of  these  foreign  ingredi- 
ents. But  if  pickles  must  still  be 
rega,rded  for  the  sake  of  the  palate, 
whntever  becomes  of  the  stomach. 


PI  c 


PIC 


it  will  be  necessary  to  watch  care- 
fully the  proper  season  for  gather- 
ing and  preparing  the  various  arti- 
cles intended  to  be  preserved.  Fre- 
quently it,  happens,  after  the  first 
rveek  that  walnuts  come  in  season, 
that  they  become  hard  and  shelled, 
especially  if  the  weather  be  hot  and 
dry ;  it  is  therefore  necessary  to 
purchase  them  as  soon  as  they  first 
appear  at  market ;  or  in  the  course 
of  a  few  months  after  being  pickled, 
the  nuts  may  be  found  incased  in 
an  impenetrable  shell.  The  middle 
of  July  is  generally  the  proper  time 
to  look  for  green  walnuts.  Nastur- 
tiums are  to  be  had  about  the  same. 
Garlic  and  shalots,  from  Midsum- 
mer to  Michaelmas.  Onions  of  va- 
rious kinds  for  pickling,  are  in  sea- 
son by  the  middle  of  July,  and  for 
a  month  after.  Gherkins,  cucum- 
bers, melons,  and  mangoes,  are  to 
be  had  by  the  middle  of  July,  and 
for  a  month  after.  Green,  red,  and 
yellow  capsicums,  the  end  of  July, 
and  following  month.  Chilies,  to- 
matas,  cauliflowers,  and  artichokes, 
towards  the  end  ofjuly,  and  through- 
out Au<;ust.  Jerusalem  artichokes 
for  pickling,  July  and  August,  and 
for  three  months  after.  French 
beans  and  radish  pods,  in  July. 
Mushrooms,  for  pickling  and  for 
ketchup,  in  September.  Red  cab- 
bage, and  samphire,  in  August. 
White  cabbage,  in  September  and 
October.  Horseradish,  November 
and  December. — Pickles,  when  put 
down,  require  to  be  kept  with  great 
care,  closely  covered.  When  want- 
ed for  use  they  should  be  taken  out 
of  the*  jar  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
pierced  with  holes,  the  use  of  metal 
in  this  case  being  highly  improper. 
Pickles  should  be  well  kept  from 
the  air,  and  seldom  opened.  Small 
jars  should  be  kept  for  those  more 
frequently  in  use,  that  what  is  not 
eaten  may  be  returned  into  the  jar, 
and  the  top  [kept  closely  covered. 
In  preparing  vinegar  for  pic||^f  s,  it 
should  not  be  boiled  in  metal  sauee- 
240 


pans,  but  in  a  stone  jar,  on  a  hot 
hearth,  as  the  acid  will  dissolve  or 
corrode  the  metal,  and  infuse  into 
the  pickle  an  unwholesome  ingre- 
dient. For  the  same  reason  pickles 
should  never  be  put  into  glazed 
jars,  as  salt  and  vinegar  will  pene- 
trate the  glaze,  and  render  it  poison- 
ous. 

PICKLED  ASPARAGUS.  Cut 
some  asparagus,  and  lay  it  in  an 
earthen  pot.  Make  a  brine  of  salt 
and  water,  strong  enough  to  bear  an 
egg  ;  pour  it  hot  on  the  asparagus, 
and  let  it  be  closely  covered.  When 
it  is  to  be  used,  lay  it  for  two  hours 
in  cold  water ;  boil  and  serve  it  up 
on  a  toast,  with  melted  butter  over 
it.  If  to  be  used  as  a  pickle,  boil 
it  as  it  comes  out  of  the  brine,  and 
lay  it  in  vinegar. 

'PICKLED  BACON.  For  two 
tolerable  flitches,  dry  a  stone  of  salt 
over  the  fire,  till  it  is  scalding  hot. 
Beat  fine  two  ounces  of  saltpetre, 
and  two  pounds  of  bay  salt  well 
dried,  and  mix  them  with  some  of 
the  heated  salt.  Rub  the  bacon 
first  with  that,  and  then  with  the 
rest ;  put  it  into  a  tub,  and  keep  it 
close  from  the  air. 

PICKLED  BEET  ROOT.  Boil 
the  roots  till  three  parts  done,  or 
set  them  into  a  cool  oven  till  they 
are  softened.  Cut  them  into  slices 
of  an  inch  thick,  cover  them  with 
vinegar,  adding  some  allspice,  a  few 
cloves,  a  little  mace,  black  pepper, 
horseradish  sliced,  some  onions, 
shalots,  a  little  pounded  ginger,  and 
some  salt.  Boil  these  ingredients 
together  twenty  minutes,  and  when 
cold,  add  to  them  a  little  bruised 
cochineal.  Put  the  slices  of  beet 
into  jars,  pour  the  pickle  upon 
them,  and  tie  the  jars  down  close. 

PICKLED  CABBAGE.  Slice  a 
hard  red  cabbage  into  a  cullen- 
der, and  sprinkle  each  layer  with 
salt.  Let  it  drain  two  days,  then 
put  it  into  ajar,  cover  it  with  boil- 
ing vinegar,  and  add  a  few  slices 
of  red  beet-root.     The  purple  red 


PIC 


PIC 


cabbage  makes  the  finest  colour. 
Those  who  like  the  flavour  of  spice, 
will  boil  some  with  the  vinegar. 
Cauliflower  cut  in  branches,  and 
thrown  in  after  being  salted,  will 
look  of  a  beautiful  red. 

PICKLED  CARROTS.  Half  boil 
some  middle  sized  yellowish  carrots, 
cut  them  into  any  shape,  and  let 
them  cool.  Take  as  much  vinegar 
as  will  cover  them,  boil  it  with  a 
little  salt,  and  a  pennyworth  of 
saffron  tied  in  a  piece  of  muslin. 
Put  the  carrots  into  a  jar ;  when  the 
pickle  is  cold,  pour  it  upon  them, 
and  cover  the  jar  close.  Let  it 
stand  all  night,  then  pour  off  the 
pickle,  and  boil  it  with  Jamaica  pep- 
per, mace,  cloves,  and  a  little  salt. 
When  cold,  pour  it  upon  the  car- 
rots, and  tie  them  up  for  use. 

PICKLED  CUCUMBERS.  Cut 
them  into  thick  slices,  and  sprinkle 
salt  over  them.  Next  day  drain 
them  for  five  or  six  hours,  then  put 
them  into  a  stone  jar,  pour  boiling 
vinegar  over  them,  and  keep  them  in 
a  warm  place.  Repeat  the  boiling 
vinegar,  and  stop  them  up  again  in- 
stantly, and  so  on  till  quite  green. 
Then  add  peppercorns  and  ginger, 
and  keep  them  in  small  stone  jars. 
Cucumbers  are  best  pickled  with 
sliced  onions. 

PICKLED  GHERKINS.  Select 
some  sound  young  cucumbers,5pread 
them  on  dishes,  salt  and  let  them  lie 
a  week.  Drain  and  put  them  in  a 
jar,  pouring  boiling  vinegar  over 
them.  Set  them  near  the  fire,  co- 
vered with  plenty  of  vine  leaves. 
If  they  do  not  come  to  a  tolerably 
good  green,  pour  the  vinegar  into 
another  jar,  set  it  on  a  hot  hearth, 
and  when  the  vinegar  boils,  pour 
it  over  them  again,  and  cover  them 
with  fresh  leaves.  Repeat  this 
operation  as  often  as  is  necessary, 
to  bring  the  pickle  to  a  good  colour. 
Too  many  persons  have  made  pickles 
of  a  very  fine  green,  by  using  brass 
or  bellmetal  kettles ;  but  as  this  is 
(No.  11.) 


highly  poisonous,  the  practice  ought 
never  to  be  attempted. 

PICKLED  HAxM.  After  it  haa^ 
been  a  week  in  the  pickle,  boil  a 
pint  of  vinegar,  with  two  ounces  of 
bay  salt.  Pour  it  hot  on  the  ham, 
and  baste  it  every  day  ;  it  may  then 
remain  in  the  brine  two  or  three 
weeks. 

PICKLED  HERRING.  Procure 
them  as  fresh  as  possible,  split  them 
open,  take  off  the  heads,  and  trim 
off  all  the  thin  parts.  Put  them  into 
salt  and  water  for  one  hour,  drain 
and  wipe  the  fish,  and  put  them  into 
jars,  with  the  following  preparation, 
which  is  enough  for  six  dozen  her- 
rings. Take  salt  and  bay  salt  one 
pound  each,  saltpetre  and  lump  su- 
gar two  ounces  each,  and  powdei 
and  mix  the  whole  together.  Put  a 
layer  of  the  mixture  at  the  bottom 
of  the  jar,  then  a  layer  of  fish  with 
the  skin  side  downwards ;  so  con- 
tinue alternately  till  the  jar  is  full. 
Press  it  down,  and  cover  it  close: 
in  two  or  three  months  they  will  be 
fit  for  use. 

PICKLED  LEMONS.  They 
should  be  small,  and  with  thiek  rinds. 
Rub  them  with  a  piece  of  flannel, 
and  slit  them  half  down  in  four  quar- 
ters, but  not  through  to  the  pulp. 
Fill  the  openings  with  salt  hard 
pressed  in,  set  them  upright  in  a 
pan  for  four  or  five  days,  until  the 
salt  melts,  and  turn  them  thrice  a 
day  in  their  own  liquor  till  quite 
tender.  Make  enough  pickle  to 
cover  them,  of  rape  vinegar,  the 
brine  of  the  lemons,  peppercorns, 
and  ginger.  Boil  and  skim  it ;  when 
cold  put  it  to  the  lemons,  with  two 
ounces  of  mustard  seed,  and  two 
cloves  of  garlic  to  six  lemons.  When 
the  lemons  are  to  be  used,  the  pickle 
will  be  useful  in  fish  or  other  sauces. 

PICKLED  MACKAREL.  Clean 
and  divide  the  fish,  and  cut  each 
side  into  three ;  or  leave  them  un- 
divided, and  cut  each  side  into  five 
or  six  pieces.  To  six  large  mackarel, 

I  i  241 


PIC 


PIC 


take  nearly  an  ounce  of  pepper,  two 
nutmegs,  a  little  mace,  four  cloves, 
and  a  handful  of  salt,  all  finely  pow- 
dered. Mix  them  together,  make 
holes  in  each  bit  of  fish,  put  the  sea- 
soning into  them,  and  rub  some  of  it 
over  each  piece.  Fry  them  brown  in 
oil,  and  when  cold  put  them  into  a 
stone  jar,  and  cover  them  with  vine- 
gar. Thus  prepared,  they  will  keep 
for  months ;  and  if  to  be  kept  longer, 
pour  oil  on  the  top.  Mackarel  pre- 
served this  way  are  called  Caveach. 
A  more  common  way  is  to  boil  the 
mackarel  after  they  are  cleaned,  and 
then  to  boil  up  some  of  the  liquor 
with  a  few  peppercorns,  bay  leaves, 
and  a  little  vinegar  ;  and  when  the 
fish  is  cold,  the  liquor  is  poured  over 
them.  Collared  mackarel  are  pre- 
pared the  same  way  as  collared  eel. 

PICKLED  MELONS.  Take  six 
melons,  cut  a  slice  out  of  them,  and 
scrape  out  the  seeds  and  pulp  quite 
clean.  Put  them  into  a  tin  stewpan 
with  as  much  water  as  will  cover 
them ;  add  a  small  handful  of  salt, 
^  and  boil  them  over  a  quick  fire. 
When  they  boil  take  them  off  the  fire, 
put  them  into  an  earthen  pan  with 
the  water,  and  let  them  stana  till  the 
next  day.  The  melons  must  then  be 
taken  out  and  wiped  dry,  both  with- 
in and  without.  Put  two  small  cloves 
of  garlic  into  each,  a  little  bit  of  gin- 
ger, and  bruised  mustard  seed,  enough 
to  fill  them.  Replace  the  slice  that 
was  cut  out,  and  tie  it  on  with  a 
thread.  Boil  some  cloves,  mace, 
ginger,  pepper,  and  mustard  seed,  all 
bruised,  and  s^e  garlic,  in  as  much 
vinegar  as  will  cover  them.  After  a 
little  boiling,  pour  the  whole,  boiling- 
hot,  upon  the  melons.  They  must 
be  quite  covered  with  the  pickle,  and 
tied  down  close,  when  cold,  with  a 
bladder  and  leather.  They  will  not 
be  fit  for  use  in  less  than  three  or 
four  months,  and  will  keep  two  or 
three  years. 

PICKLED  MUSHROOMS.   Rub 
the  buttons  with  apiece  of  flannel,  and 
■^  242 


salt.  Take  out  the  red  inside  of  the 
larger  ones,  and  when  old  and  black 
they  will  do  for  pickling.  Throw 
some  salt  over,  and  put  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  mace  and  pepper.  As 
the  liquor  comes  out,  shake  them- 
well,  and  keep  them  over  a  gentle 
fire  till  all  of  it  be  dried  into  them 
again.  Then  put  as  much  vinegar 
into  the  pan  as  will  cover  them,  give 
it  one  warm,  and  turn  all  into  a  glass 
or  stone  jar.  Mushrooms  pickled  in 
this  way  will  preserve  their  flavour, 
and  keep  for  two  years. 

PICKLED  NASTURTIUM. 
Take  the  buds  fresh  oft'  the  plants 
when  they  are  pretty  large,  but  be- 
fore they  grow  hard,  and  put  them 
into  some  of  the  best  white  wine  vine- 
gar, boiled  up  with  such  spices  as 
are  most  agreeable.  Keep  them  in 
a  bottie  closely  stopped,  and  they 
will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  week  or  ten 
days. 

PICKLED  ONIONS.  In  the 
month  of  September,  choose  the 
small  white  round  onions,  take  off* 
the  brown  skin,  have  ready  a  very 
nice  tin  stewpan  of  boiling  water, 
and  throw  in  as  many  onions  as  will 
cover  the  top.  As  soon  as  they  look 
clear  on  the  outside,  take  them  up 
with  a  slice  as  quick  as  possible,  and 
lay*  them  on  a  clean  cloth.  Cover 
them  close  with  another  cloth,  and 
scald  some  more,  and  so  on.  Let' 
them  lie  to  be  cold,  then  put  them  in 
a  jar  or  wide-mouthed  glass  bottles, 
and  pour  over  them  the  best  white- 
wine  vinegar,  just  hot,  but  not  boil- 
ing, and  cover  them  when  cold.  They 
must  look  quite  clear;  and  if  the 
outer  skin  be  shriveled,  peel  it  off". 

PICKLED  OYSTERS.  Opei* 
four  dozen  large  oysters,  wash  them 
in  their  own  liquor,  wipe  them  di*y, 
and  strain  off"  the  liquor.  Add  a  des- 
sert-spoonful of  pepper,  two  blades 
of- mace,  a  table-spoonful  of  salt,  if 
the  liquor  require  it ;  then  add  three 
spoonfuls  of  white  wine,  and  four  of 
vinegar.     Simmer  the  oysters  a  few 


PIC 


PIC 


minutes  in  the  liquor,  then  put  them 
into  small*  jars,  boil  up  the  pickle, 
and  skim  it.  When  cold,  pour  the 
liquor  over  the  oysters,  and  cover 
them  close. — Another  way.  Open 
the  oysters,  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  their  own  liquor  for  ten 
minutes,  and  simmer  them  very  gent- 
ly. Put  them  into  a  jar  one  by  one, 
that  none  of  the  grit  may  stick  to 
them  ;  and  when  cold,  cover  them 
with  the  pickle  thus  made.  Boil  the 
liquor  with  abitof  mace,  lemon  peel, 
and  black  peppers ;  and  to  every 
hundred  of  these  corns,  put  two 
spoonfuls  of  the  best  undistilled  vi- 
negar. The  pickle  should  be  kept 
in  small  jars,  and  tied  close  with 
bladder,  for  the  air  will  spoil  them. 
PICKLED  PIGEONS.  Bone 
them,  turn  the  inside  out,  and  lard 
it.  Season  with  a  little  salt  and  all- 
spice in  fine  powder ;  then  turn  them 
again,  and  tie  the  neck  and  rump 
with  thread.  Put  them  into  boiling 
water;  when  they  have  boiled  a 
minute  or  two  to  make  them  plump, 
take  them  out  and  dry  them  well. 
Then  put  them  boiling  hot  into  the 
pickle,  which  must  be  made  of  equal 
quantities  of  white  wine  and  white- 
wine  vinegar,  with  white  pepper  and 
allspice,  sliced  ginger  and  nutmeg, 
and  two  or  three  bay  leaves.  When 
it  boils  up,  put  in  the  pigeons.  If 
they  are  small,  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
will  do  them  ;  if  large,  twenty  mi- 
nutes. Then  take  them  out,  wipe 
them,  and  let  them  cool.  When 
the  pickle  is  cold,  take  the  fat  from 
it,  and  put  them  in  again.  Keep 
them  in  a  stone  jar,  tied  down  with 
a  bladder  to  keep  out  the  air.  In- 
stead of  larding,  put  into  some  a 
stuffing  made  of  yolks  of  eggs  boiled 
hard,  and  marrow  in  equal  quan- 
tities, with  sweet  herbs,  pepper, 
salt,  and  mace, 

PICKLED  PORK.  The  hams 
and  shoulders  being  cut  off,  take  for 
pickling  the  quantities  proportioned 
to  the  middlings  of  a  pretty  large 
hog.    Mix  and  pound  fine,  four  oun- 


ces of  salt  petre,  a  pound  of  coarse 
sugar,  an  ounce  of  salprunel,  and 
a  little  common  salt.  Sprinkle  the 
pork  with  salt,  drain  it  twenty  four 
hours,  and  then  rub  it  with  the  above 
mixture.  Pack  the  pieces  tight  in 
a  small  deep  tub,  filling  up  the  spaces 
with  common  salt.  Place  large  peb- 
bles on  the  pork,  to  prevent  it  from 
swimming  in  the  pickle  which  the 
salt  will  produce.  If  kept  from  the 
air  it  will  continue  very  fine  for  two 
years. 

PICKLED  ROSES.  Take  two 
peckrof  damask  rose  buds,  pick  oflf 
the  green  part,  and  strew  in  the 
bottom  of  a  jar  a  handful  of  large 
bay  salt.  Put  in  half  the  roses,  and 
strew  a  little  more  bay  salt  upon 
them.  Strip  from  the  stalk  a  hand- 
ful of  knotted  marjoram,  a  handful 
of  lemon  thyme,  and  as  rnuch  com-^ 
mon  thyme.  Take  six  pennyworth 
of  benjamin,  as  much  of  storax,  six 
orris  roots,  and  a  little  suet ;  be;at 
and  bruise  them  all  together,  and 
mix  them  with  the  stripped  herbs. 
Add  twenty  cloves,  a  grated  nut- 
meg, the  peel  of  two  Seville  oranges 
pared  thin,  and  of  one  lemon  shred 
fine.  Mix  them  with  the  herbs  and 
spices,  strew  all  on  the  roses,  and 
stir  them  once  in  two  days  till  the 
jar  is  full.  More  sweets  need  not 
be  added,  but  only  roses,  orange 
flawers,  or  single  pinks. 

PICKLED  SALMON.  Af^er 
scaling  and  cleaning,  split  the  sal- 
mon, and  divide  it  into  convenient 
pieces.  Lay  it  in  the  kettle  to  fill 
the  bottom,  and  astmuch  water  as 
will  cover  it.  To  three  quarts  add 
a  pint  of  vinegar,  a  handful  of  salt, 
twelve  bay-leaves,  six  blades  of 
mace,  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
black  pepper.  When  the  salmon 
is  boiled  enough,  drain  and  lay  it 
on  a  clean  cloth;  then  put  more 
salmon  into  thje  kettle,  and  pour  the 
liquor  upon  it,  and  so  on^till  all  is 
done.  After  this,  if  the  pickle  be 
not  smartly  flavoured  with  the  vine- 
gar and  salt,  add  more,  and  boil  it 
243 


PIC 


PIC 


quick  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
When  all  is  cold,  pack  the  dish  in  a 
deep  pot,  well  covered  with  the  pic- 
kle,, and  kept  from  the  air.  The  li- 
quor must  be  drained  from  the  fish, 
and  occasionally  boiled  and  skim- 
med. 

PICKLED  SAMPHIRE.  Clear 
the  branches  of  the  samphire  from  the 
dead  leaves,  and  lay  them  into  a  large 
jar,  or  small  cask.  Make  a  strong 
brine  of  white  or  bay  salt,  skim  it 
clean  while  it  is  boiling,  and  when 
done  let  it  cool.  Take  th^  sam- 
phire out  of  the  water,  and  put  it  into 
a  bottle  with  a  broad  mouth.  Add 
some  strong  white-wine  vinegar,  and 
keep  it  well  covered  down. 

PICKLED  STURGEON.  The 
following  is  an  excellent  imitation  of 
pickled  sturgeon.  Take  a  fine  large 
^  turkey,  but  not  old ;  pick  it  very  nice- 
ly, singe,  and  make  it  extremely  clean. 
Bdne  and  wash  it,  and  tie  it  across 
and  across  with  a  piece  of  mat  string 
washed  clean.  Put  into  a  very  nice 
tin  saucepan  a  quart  of  water,  a  quart 
1^  of  vinegar,  a  quart  of  white  wine,  not 
sweet,  and  a  large  handful  of  salt. 
Boil  and  skim  it  well,  and  then  boil 
the  turkey.  When  done  enough, 
tighten  the  strings,  and  lay  upon  it 
a  dish  with  a  weight  of  two  pounds 
over  it.  Boil  the  liquoriialf  anJiour; 
and  when  both  are  cold,  put  the  tur- 
key into  it.  This  will  keep  some 
months,  and  eats  more  delicately 
than  sturgeon.  Vinegar,  oil,  and  su- 
gar, are  usually  eaten  with  it.  If 
more  vinegar  or  salt  should  be  want- 
ed, add  them  when  cold.  Garnish 
with  fennel. 

PICKLED  TONGUES.  To  pre- 
pare neats'  tongues  for  boiling,  cut 
off  the  roots,  but  leave  a  little  of  the 
kernel  and  fat.  Sprinkle  some  salt, 
and  let  it  drain  from  the  slime  till 
next  day.  Then  for  each  tongue  mix 
a  large  spoonful  of  common  salt,  the 
same  of  coarse  sugar  and  about  half 
as  much  of  salt  petre  ;  rub  it  in  well, 
and  do  so  every  day.  In  a  week  add 
another  spoonful  of  salt.  If  rubbed 
2;44 


every  day,  a  tongue  will  be  ready  in 
a  fortnight ;  but  if  only  turned  in  the 
pickle  daily,  it  will  keep  four  or  five 
weeks  without  being  too  salt.  When 
tongues  are  to  be  dried,  write  the 
date  on  a  parchment,  and  tie  it  ©n. 
Tongues  may  either  be  smoked,  or 
dried  plain.  When  a  tongue  is  to  be 
dressed,  boil  it  five  hours  till  it  is 
quite  tender.  If  done  sooner,  it  is 
easily  kept  hot  for  the  table.  The 
longer  it  is  kept  after  drying,  the 
higher  it  will  be ;  and  i£  hard,  it  may 
require  soaking  three  or  four  hours.— 
Another  way.  Clean  and  prepare  as 
above ;  and  for  two  tongues  allow  an 
ounce  of  salt  petre,  and  an  ounce  of 
salprunella,  and  rub  them  in  well. 
In  two  days  after  well  rubbing,  cover 
them  with  common  salt,  turn  them 
every  day  for  three  weeks,  then  dev 
them,  rub  bran  over,  and  smoke  them. 
Keep  them  in  a  cool  dry  place,  and 
in  ten  days  they  will  be  fit  to  eat. 

PICKLED  WALNUTS.  When 
they  will  bear  a  pin  to  go  into  them, 
boil  a  brine  of  salt  and  water,  strong 
enough  to  swim  an  egg,  and  skim  it 
well.  When  the  brine  is  quite  cold, 
pour  it  on  the  walnuts,  and  let  them 
soak  for  six  days.  Change  the  brine, 
and  let  them  stand  six  more ;  then 
drain  and  put  them  into  a  jar,  pour- 
ing over  them  a  sufiicient  quantity  of 
the  best  vinegar.  Add  plenty  of 
black  pepper,  pimento,  ginger,  mace, 
cloves,  mustard  seed,  and  horsera- 
dish, all  boiled  together,  li^ut  put  on 
cold.  To  every  hundred  of  walnuts 
put  six  spoonfuls  of  mustard  seed, 
and  two  or  three  heads  of  garlic  or, 
shalot,  but  the  latter  is  the  mildest. 
The  walnuts  will  be  fit  for  use  in  ^ 
about  six  months  ;  but  if  closely  co- 
vered, they  will  be  good  for  several 
years :  the  air  will  soften  them.  The 
pickle  ^11  be  equal  to  ketchup,  when 
the  walnuts  are  used. — Another  way. 
Put  the  walnuts  into  ajar,  cover  them 
with  the  best  vinegar  cold,  and  let 
them  stand  four  months.  Then, 
piour  off  the  pickle,  and  boil  as  much 
fresh  vinegar  as  will  cover  the  >vai. 


PIG 


VIG 


nuts,  adding  to  every  three  quarts 
of  vinegar  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
the  best  mustard,  a  stick  of  horse- 
radish sliced,  half  an  ounce  of  black 
pepper,  half  an  ounce  of  allspice, 
and  a  good  handful  of  salt.  Pour 
the  whole  boiling  hot  upon  the  wal- 
nuts, and  cover  them  close :  they 
will  be  fit  for  use  in  three  or  four 
months.  Two  ounces  of  garhc  or 
shalot  may  be  added,  but  must  not 
be  boiled  in  the  vinegar.  The  pickle 
in  which  the  walnuts  stood  the  first 
four  months,  may  be  used  as  ketchup. 

PICTURES.  The  following  sim- 
ple method  of  preventing  flies  from 
sitting  on  pictures,  or  any  other  fur- 
niture, is  well  experienced,  and  if 
generally  adopted,  would  prevent 
much  trouble  and  damage.  Soak  a 
large  bunch  of  leeks  five  or  six  days 
in  a  pail  of  water,  and  wash  the  pic- 
tures with  it,  or  any  other  piece  of 
furniture.  The  flies  will  never  come 
near  any  thing  that  is  so  washed. 

PIE  SAUCE.  Mix  some  gravy 
with  an  anchovy,  a  sprig  of  sweet 
herbs,  an  onion,  and  a  little  mush- 
room liquor.  Boil  and  thicken  it 
with  butter  rolled  in  flour,  add  a 
little  red  wine,  and  pour  the  sauce 
into  the  pie.  This  serves  for  mut- 
ton, lamb,  veal,  or  beef  pies,  when 
such  an  addition  is  required. 

PIES  AND  TARtS.  Attention 
should  be  paid  to  the  heat  of  the 
oven  for  all  kinds  of  pies  and  tarts. 
Light  paste  should  be  put  into  a 
moderate  oven  :  if  too  hot  the  crust 
will  not  rise,  but  burn  :  if  too  slack, 
the  paste  will  be  heavy,  and  not  of 
a  good  colour.  Raised  paste  should 
have  a  quick  oven,  and  well  closed. 
Iced  tarts  should  be  done  in  a  slack 
oven,  or  the  iceing  will  become 
brown  before  the  tarts  are  baked. 

PIGEONS.  In  order  to  breed 
pigeons,  it  is  best  to  take  two  young 
ones  at  a  time  ;  and  if  well  looked 
after,  and  plentifully  fed,  they  will 
breed  every  month.  They  should 
be  kept  very  clean,  and  the  bottom 
of  the  dovp-cotyC  be  strewed  with 


sand  once  a  month  or  oftener.  Tares 
and  white  peas  are  their  proper 
food,  and  they  should  be  provided 
with  plenty  of  fresh  water.  Star- 
lings and  other  birds  are  apt  to 
come  among  them,  and  suck  the 
eggs.  Vermin  likewise  are  their 
enemies,  and  frequently  destroy 
them.  If  the  brood  should  be  too 
small,  put  among  them  a  few  tame 
pigeons  of  their  own  colour.  Ob- 
serve not  to  have  too  large  a  propor- 
tion of  cock  birds,  for  they  are  quar- 
relsome, and  will  soon  thin  the  dove- 
cote. Pigeons  are  fond  of  salt,  and 
it  keeps  them  in  health.  Lay  a  large 
piece  of  clay  near  their  dwelling, 
and  pour  upon  it  any  of  the  salt 
brine  that  may  be  useless  in  the 
family.  Bay  salt  and  cummin  seeds 
mixed  together,  is  a  universal  reme- 
dy for  the  diseases  of  pigeons.  The 
backs  and  breasts  are  sometimes 
scabby,  but  may  be  cured  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner.  Take  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  bay  salt,  and  as  much 
common  salt;  a  pound  of  fennel 
seed,  a  pound  of  dill  seed,  as  much 
cummin  seed,  and  an  ounce  of  assa- 
foetida ;  mix  all  with  a  little  wheat 
flour,  and  some  fine  wrought  clay. 
When  all  are  well  beaten  together, 
put  it  into  two  earthen  pots,  and 
bake  them  in  the  oven.  When  the 
pots  are  cold,  put  them  on  the  table 
in  the  dove-cote ;  the  pigeons  will 
eat  the  mixture  and  get  well. 

PIGEONS  DRESSED.  These 
birds  are  particularly  useful,  as  they 
may  be  dressed  in  so  many  ways. 
The  good  flavour  of  them  depends 
very  much  on  their  being  cropped 
and  drawn  as  soon  as  killed.  No 
other  bird  requires  so  much  wash- 
ing. Pigeons  left  from  dinner  the 
day  before  may  be  stewed,  or  made 
into  a  pie.  In  either  case,  care  must 
be  taken  not  to  overdo  them,  which 
will  make  them  stringy.  They  need 
only  be  heated  up  in  gravy-  ready 
prepared  ;  and  forcemeat  balls  may 
be  fried  and  added,  instead  of  put- 
ting a  stuffing  into  them.  If  for  a 
$J45 


PIG 


PIG 


pie,  let  beef  steaks  be  stewed  in 
a  little  water,  and  put  cold"  under 
them.  Cover  each  pigeon  with  a 
piece  of  fat  bacon  to  keep  them 
moist,  season  as  usual,  and  put  in 
some  eggs. — In  purchasing  pigeons, 
be  careful  to  see  that  they  are  quite 
fresh :  if  they  look  flabby  about  the 
vent,  and  that  part  is  discoloured, 
they  are  stale.  The  feet  should  be 
supple :  if  old  the  feet  are  harsh. 
The  tame  ones  are  larger  than  the 
wild,  and  by  some  they  are  thought 
to  be  the  best.  They  should  be  fat 
and  tender ;  but  many  are  deceived 
in  their  size,  because  a  full  crop  is  as 
large  as  the  whole  body  of  a  small 
pigeon.  The  wood -pigeon  is  large, 
and  the  flesh  dark  coloured  :  if  pro- 
perly kept,  and  not  over  roasted,  the 
flavour  is  equal  to  teal. 

PIGEONS  IN  DISGUISE.  Draw 
the  pigeons,  take  out  the  craw  very 
carefully,  wash  them  clean,  cut  off 
the  pinions,  and  turn  their  legs  under 
their  wings.  Season  them  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  roll  each  pigeon  in  a 
puff  paste,  close  them  well,  tie  them 
in  separate  cloths,  and  boil  them  an 
hour  and  a  half.  When  they  are  un- 
tied be  careful  they  do  not  break ;  put 
them  in  a  dish,  atid  pour  a  little  good 
gravy  over  them. 

PIGEONS  IN  A  HOLE.  Truss 
four  young  pigeons,  as  for  boiling, 
and  season  them  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  mace.  Put  into  the  belly  of  each 
a  small  piece  of  butter,  lay  them  in 
a  pie  dish,  and  pour  batter  over  them, 
made  of  three  eggs,  two  spoonfuls  of 
flour,  and  half  a  pint  of  milk.  Bake 
them  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  send 
them  to  table  in  the  same  dish. 

PIGEONS  IN  JELLY.  Save 
some  of  the  liquor  in  which  a  knuckle 
of  veal  has  been  boiled,  or  boil  a 
calf's  or  a  neat's  foot ;  put  the  broth 
into  a  pan  with  a  blade  of  mace,  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  some  white 
peppep^emon  peel,  a  slice  of  lean  ba- 
con, and  the  pigeons.  Bake  them,  and 
let  them  stand  to  be  cold  ;  but  season 
them  before  baking.  When  done, 
240 


take  them  out  of  the  liquor,  cover 
them  close  to  preserve  the  colour, 
and  clear  the  jelly  by  boiling  it  with 
the  whites  of  two  eggs.  Strain  it 
through  a  thick  cloth  dipped  in  boil- 
ing water,  and  put  into  a  sieve.  The 
fat  must  be  all  removed,  before  it  be 
cleared.  Put  the  jelly  roughly  over 
and  round  the  pigeons. — A  beautiful 
dish  may  be  made  in  the  following 
manner.  Pick  two  very  nice  pigeons, 
and  make  them  look  as  well  as  pos- 
sible by  singeing,  washing,  and  clean- 
ing the  heads  well.  Leave  the  heads 
and  the  feet  on,  but  the  nails  must 
be  clipped  close  to  the  claws.  Roast 
them  of  a  very  nice  brown ;  and  when 
done,  put  a  small  sprig  of  myrtle  into 
the  bill  of  each.  Prepare  a  savoury 
jelly,'  and  with  it  half  fill  a  bowl  of 
such  a  size  as  shall  be  proper  to  turn 
down  on  the  dish  intended  for  serving 
in.  When  the  jelly  and  the  birds  are 
cold,  see  that  no  gravy  hangs  to  the 
birds,  and  then  lay  them  upside  down 
in  the  jelly.  Before  the  rest  of  it 
begins  to  set,  pour  it  over  the  birds, 
so  as  to  be  three  inches  above  the 
feet.  This  should  be  done  full  twen- 
ty four  hours  before  serving.  The 
dish  thus  prepared  will  have  a  very 
handsome  appearance  in  the  mid 
range  of  a  second  coarse ;  or  when 
served  with  the  jelly  roughed  large, 
it  makes  a  side  or  corner  dish,  being 
then  of  a  smaller  size.  The  head 
of  the  pigeons  should  be  kept  up,  as 
if  alive,  by  tying  the  neck  with  some 
thread,  and  the  legs  bent  as  if  the 
birds  sat  upon  them. 

PIGEON  PIE.  Rub  the  pigeons 
with  pepper  and  salt,  inside  and  out. 
Put  in  a  bit  of  butter,  and  if  appro- 
ved, some  parsley  chopped  with  the 
livers,  and  a  little  of  the  same  season- 
ing. Lay  a  beef  steak  at  the  bottom 
of  the  dish,  and  the  birds  on  it ;  be- 
tween every  two,  a  hard  egg.  Put 
a  cup  of  water  in  the  dish  ;  and  if  a 
thin  slice  or  two  of  ham  be  added, 
it  will  greatly  improve  the  flavour. 
When  ham  is  cut  for  gravy  or  pies, 
the   under  part  should   be    taken, 


FlCjr 


Fl  U 


rather  than  the  prime.  Season  the 
gizzards,  and  two  joints  of  the 
wings,  and  place  them  in  the  centre 
of  the  pie.  Over  them,  in  a  hole 
made  in  the  crust,  put  three  of  the 
feet  nicely  cleaned,  to  show  what 
pie  it  is. 

PIG'S  CHEEK.  To  prepare  a 
pig's  cheek  for  boiling,  cut  off  the 
snout,  and  clean  the  head.  Divide 
it,  take  out  the  eyes  and  the  brains, 
sprinkle  the  head  with  salt,  and  let 
it  drain  twenty-four  hours.  Salt  it 
with  common  salt  and  saltpetre; 
and  if  to  be  dressed  without  being 
stewed  with  peas,  let  it  lie  eight  or 
ten  days,  but  less  if  to  be  dress- 
ed with  peas.  It  must  first  be  wash- 
ed, and  then  simmered  till  all  is 
tender. 

PIG'S  FEET  AND  EARS.  Clean 
them  carefully,  soak  them  some 
hours,  and  boil  them  quite  tender. 
Then  take  them  out,  and  boil  a  little 
salt  and  vinegar  with  some  of  the 
liquor,  and  pour  it  over  them  when 
cold.  When  to  be  dressed,  dry 
them,  cut  the  feet  in  two,  and  slice 
the  ears.  Fry  them,  and  serve  with 
butter,  mustard,  and  vinegar.  They 
may  be  either  done  in  batter,  or  only 
fioured. 

PIG'S  FEET  AND  EARS  FRI- 
CASSEED. If  to  be  dressed  with 
cream,  put  no  vinegar  into  the  pic- 
kle. Cut  the  feet  and  ears  into  neat 
bits,  and  boil  them  in  a  little  milk. 
Pour  the  liquor  from  them,  and 
simmer  in  a  little  veal  broth,  with  a 
bit  of  onion,  mace,  and  lemon  peel. 
Before  the  dish  is  served  up,  add  a 
little  cream,  flour,  butter,  and  salt. 

PIG'S  FEET  JELLY.  Clean  the 
feet  and  ears  very  carefully,  and 
soak  them  some  hours.  Then  boil 
them  in  a  very  small  quantity  of 
water,  till  every  bone  can  be  taken 
out.  Throw  in  half  a  handful  of 
chopped  sage,  the  same  of  parsley, 
and  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt,  and 
mace  in  fine  powder.  Simmer  till 
the  herbs  are  scalded,  and  then  pour 
the  whole  into  a  melon  form. 


PIG'S  HARSLET.  Wash  and 
dry  some  liver,  sweetbreads,  and  fat 
and  lean  bits  of  pork,  beating  the 
latter  with  a  rolling-pin  to  make  it 
tender.  Season  with  pepper,  salt, 
sage,  and  a  little  onion  shred  fine. 
When  mixed,  put  all  into  a  cawl, 
and  fasten  it  up  tight  with  a  needle 
and  thread.  Roast  it  on  a  hanging 
jack,  or  by  a  string.  Serve  with  a 
sauce  of  port  wine  and  water,  and 
mustard,  just  boiled  up,  and  put  in- 
to the  dish.  Or  serve  it  in  slices 
with  parsliey  for  a  fry. 

PIG'S  HEAD  COLLARED. 
Scour  the  head  and  ears  nicely,  take 
off  the  hair  and  snout,  and  remove 
the  eyes  and  the  brain.  Lay  the 
head  into  water  one  night,  then 
drain  it,  salt  it  extremely  well  with 
common  salt  and  saltpetre,  and  let 
it  lie  five  days.  Boil  it  enough  to 
take  out  the  bones,  then  lay  it  on  a 
dresser,  turning  the  thick  end  of  one 
side  of  the  head  towards  the  thin 
end  of  the  other,  to  make  the  roll 
of  equal  size.  Sprinkle  it  well  with 
salt  and  white  pepper,  and  roll  it 
with  the  ears.  The  pig's  feet  may 
also  be  placed  round  the  outside 
when  boned,  or  the  thin  parts  of  two 
cow  heels,  if  approved.  Put  it  in  a 
cloth,  bind  it  with  a  broad  tape,  and 
boil  it  till  quite  tender.  Place  a 
good  weight  upon  it,  and  do  not 
remove  the  covering  till  the  meat  is 
cold.  If  the  collar  is  to  be  more 
like  brawn,  salt  it  longer,  add  a 
larger  proportion  of  saltpetre,  and 
put  in  also  some  pieces  of  lean  pork. 
Then  cover  it  with  cow  heel  to  make 
it  look  like  the  horn.  This  may  be 
kept  in  a  pickle  of*  boiled  salt  and 
water,  or  out  of  pickle  with  vinegar : 
it  will  be  found  a  very  convenient 
article  to  have  in  the  house.  If  likely 
to  spoil,  slice  and  fry  it,  either  with 
or  without  batter. 

PIO  SAUCE.  Take  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  white  gravy,  a  small  piece  of 
anchovy,  with  the  gravy  from  the 
roasting  of  the  pig,  and  mix  the 
brains  with  it  when  chopped.  Add 
247 


PI  L 


PIP 


a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  lit- 
tle flour  to  thicken  it,  a  slice  of  le- 
mon, and  a  little  salt.  Shake  it  over 
the  fire,  and  put  it  hot  into  the  dish. 
Good  sauce  may  also  be  made  by 
putting  some  of  the  bread  and  sage, 
which  has  been  roasted  in  the  pig, 
into  good  beef  gravy,  and  adding 
the  brains  to  it. 

PILAU.  Stew  a  pound  of  rice 
in  white  gravy  till  it  is  tender.  Half 
boil  a  well  grown  fowl,  then  lay  it 
into  a  baking  dish  with  some  pepper 
and  salt  strewed  over  it.  Lay  truf- 
fles, morels,  mushrooms,  hard  eggs, 
or  forcemeat  balls,  any  or  all  of 
them  round  it  at  pleasure  ;  put  a 
little  gravy  into  the  dish,  and  spread 
the  rice  over  the  whole  like  a  paste. 
Bake  it  gently,  till  the  fowl  is  done 
enough.  If  it  seem  dry,  cut  a  hole 
carefully  at  the  top,  and  pour  in 
some  white  gravy,  made  pretty  warm, 
before  it  is  sent  to  table.  Partridges 
or  pheasants  are  very  nice,  dressed 
the  same  way. 

PILCHARD  PIE.  Soak  two  or 
three  salted  pilchards  for  some 
hours,  the  day  before  they  are  to  be 
dressed.  Clean  and  skin  the  white 
part  of  some  large  leeks,  scald  them 
in  milk  and  water,  and  put  them  in 
layers  into  a  dish,  with  the  pilchards. 
Cover  the  whole  with  a  good  plain 
crust.  When  the  pie  is  taken  out 
of  the  oven,  lift  up  the  side  crust 
with  a  knife,  and  empty  out  all  the 
liquor :  then  pour  in  half  a  pint  of 
scalded  cream. 

PILE  OINTMENT.  Cut  some 
green  shoots  of  elder  early  in  the 
spring,  clear  away  the  bark,  and 
put  two  good  handfuls  into  a  quart 
of  thick  cream.  Boil  it  till  it  comes 
to  an  ointment,  and  as  it  rises  take 
it  off^  with  a  spoon,  and  be  careful 
to  prevent  its  burning.  Strain  the 
ointment  through  a  fine  cloth,  and 
keep  it  for  use. 

PILE$.     If  this  complaint  be  oc- 
casioned by  costiveness,  proper  at- 
tention must  be  paid  to  that  circum- 
stance;   but   if   it   originate    flbih 
248 


weakness,  strong  purgatives  must 
be  avoided.  The  part  affected  should 
be  bathed  twice  a  day  with  a  sponge 
dipped  in  cold  water,  and  the  bowels 
regulated  by  the  mildest  laxatives. 
An  electuary,  consisting  of  one  ounce 
of  sulphur,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
cream  of  tartar,  mixed  with  a  suf- 
ficient quantity  of  treacle,  may  be 
taken  three  or  four  times  a  day. 
The  patient  would  also  find  relief  by 
sitting  over  the  steam  of  warm  wa- 
ter. A  useful  liniment  for  this  dis- 
order may  be  made  of  two  ounces 
of  emollient  ointment,  and  half  an 
ounce  of  laudanum.  Mix  them  with 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  work  them 
well  together. 
PILLS.  Opening  pills  may  be  made 
'>f  two  drams  of  Castile  soap,  and  two 
drams  of  succotrine  aloes,  mixed 
with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  com- 
mon syrup.  Or  when  aloes  will  not 
agree  with  the  patient,  take  two 
drams  of  the  extract  of  jalap,  two 
drams  of  vitrioiated  tartar,  and  as 
much  syrup  of  ginger  as  will  form 
them  of  a  proper  consistence  for 
pills.  Four  or  five  of  these  pills 
will  generally  prove  a  sufficient 
purge ;  and  for  keeping  the  body 
gently  open,  one  may  be  taken  night 
and  morning. — Composing  pills  may 
consist  of  ten  grains  of  purified 
opium,  and  half  a  dram  of  Castile 
soap,  beaten  together,  and  formed 
into  twenty  parts.  When  a  quiet- 
ing draught  will  not  sit  upon  the 
stomach,  one  or  two  of  these  pills 
may  be  taken  to  great  advantage. — 
Pills  for  the  jaundice  may  be  made 
of  one  dram  each  of  Castile  soap, 
succotrine  aloes,  and  rhubarb,  mix- 
ed up  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
syrup.  Five  or  six  of  these  pills 
taken  twice  a  day,  more  or  less,  to 
keep  the  body  open,  with  the  assist- 
ance of  a  proper  diet,  will  often 
effect  a  cure. 

PIPERS.     Boil  or  bake  them  with^ 
a  pudding  well  seasoned.     If  baked,* 
put  a  large  cup  of  rich  bwjtb  into 
the  dish  ;  and  when  done,  b6il  up 


together  for  sauce,  the  broth,  some 
essence  of  anchovy,  and  a  squeeze  of 
lemon. 

PIPPIN  PUDDING.  Coddle  six 
pippins  in  vine  leaves  covered  with 
water,  very  gently,  that  the  inside 
may  be  done  without  breaking  the 
skins.  When  soft,  take  off  the  skin, 
and  with  a  tea-spoon  take  the  pulp 
from  the  core.  Press  it  through  a 
cullender,  add  two  spoonfuls  of 
orange-flower  water,  three  eggs  bea- 
ten, a  glass  of  raisin  wine,  a  pint  of 
scalding  cream,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to 
taste.  Lay  a  thin  puff  paste  at  the 
bottom  and  sides  of  the  dish ;  shred 
some  very  thin  lemon  peel  as  fine  as 
possible,  and  put  it  into  the  dish ; 
likewise  lemon,  orange,  and  citron, 
in  small  slices,  but  not  so  thin  as  to 
dissolve  in  the  baking. 

PIPPIN  TARTS.  Pare  two  Se- 
ville or  china  oranges  quite  thin,  boil 
the  peel  tender  and  shred  it  fine. 
Pare  and  core  twenty  pippins,  put 
them  in  a  stewpan,  with  as  little  wa- 
ter as  possible.  When  half  done,  add 
half  a  pound  of  sugar,  the  orange  peel 
and  juice,  and  boil  all  together  till  it 
is  pretty  thick.  When  cold,  put  it 
in  a  shallow  dish,  or  pattipans  lined 
with  paste,  to  turn  out,  and  be  eaten 
cold. 

PISTACHIO  CREAM.  Blanch 
four  ounces  of  pistachio  nuts,  beat 
them  fine  with  a  little  rose-water,  and 
add  the  paste  to  a  pint  of  cream. 
Sweeten  it,  let  it  just  boil,  and  then 
put  it  into  glasses. 

PISTACHIO  TART.  Shell  and 
peel  half  a  pound  of  pistachio  nuts, 
beat  them  very  fine  in  a  marble 
mortar,  and  work  into  them  a  piece 
of  fresh  butter.  Add  to  this  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  cream,  or  of  the  juice 
of  beet  leaves,  extracted  hy  pounding 
them  in  a  marble  mortar,  and  then 
draining  off  the  juice  through  apiece 
of  muslin.  Grate  in  two  macarones, 
add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  little 
salt,  and  sugar  to  the  taste.  Bake 
it  lightly  with  a  puff  crust  under  it, 
and  some  little  ornaments  on  the  top. 


Sift  some  fine  sugar  over,  before  it  is 
sent  to  table. 

PLAICE.  The  following  is  an  ex- 
cellent way  of  dressing  a  large  plaice, 
especially  if  there  be  a  roe.  Sprinkle 
it  with  salt,  and  keep  it  twenty  four 
hours.  Then  wash,  and  wipe  it  dry, 
smear  it  over  with  egg,  and  cover  it 
with  crums  of  bread.  Boil  up  some 
lard  or  fine  dripping,  with  two  large 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar ;  lay  in  the  fish, 
and  fry  it  of  a  fine  colour.  Drain  off 
the  fat,  serve  it  with  fried  parsley  laid 
round,  and  anchovy  sauce.  The  fish 
may  be  dipped  in  vinegar,  instead  of 
putting  vinegar  in  the  pan* 

PLAIN  BREAD  PUDDING. 
Prepare  five  ounces  of  bread  crumbs, 
put  them  in  a  basin,  pour  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  over 
them,  put  a  plate  over  the  top  to  keep 
in  the  steam,  and  let  it  stand  twenty 
minutes.  Then  beat  it  up  quite 
smooth,  with  two  ounces  of  sugar, 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Break  four  eggs 
on  a  plate,  leaving  out  one  white,  beat 
them  well,  and  add  them  to  the  pud- 
ding. Stir  it  all  well  together,  put  it 
into  a  mould  that  has  been  well  but- 
tered and  floured,  tie  a  cloth  tight 
over  it,  and  boil  it  an  hour. 

PLAIN  CHEESECAKES.  Three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  cheese  curd, 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
beat  together  in  a  mortar.  Add  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  bread 
soaked  in  milk,  three  eggs,  six  oun- 
ces of  currants  well  washed  and  pick- 
ed, sugar  to  the  taste,  a  little  candied 
orange  peel,  and  a  little  sack.  Bake 
them  in  a  puff  crust  in  a  quick  oven. 

PLAIN  FRITTERS.  Grate  a  fine 
penny  loaf  into  a  pint  of  milk,  beat  it 
smooth,  add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs, 
three  ounces  of  fine  sugar,  and  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg.  Fry  them  in  hog's  lard, 
and  serve  them  up  with  melted  but- 
ter and  sugar. 

PLAIN  PEAS  SOUP.  The  re- 
ceipts too  generally  given  for  peas 
are  so  much  crowded  with  ingredi- 
ents, that  they  entirely  overpower  the 
flavour  of  the  peas.    Nothinp;  more  is 

2  K  241) 


?LA 


PLA 


necessary  to  plain  good  soup,  tban 
a  quart  of  split  peas,  two  heads  of 
celery,  and  an  onion.  Boil  all  to- 
gether in  three  quarts  of  broth  or 
soft  water  ;  let  them  simmer  gently 
on  a  trivet  over  a  slow  fire  for  three 
hours,  and  keep  them  stirring,  to 
prevent  burning  at  the  bottom  of 
the  kettle.  If  the  water  boils  away, 
and  the  soup  gets  too  thick,  add 
some  boiling  water  to  it.  When 
the  peas  are  well  softened,  work 
them  through  a  coarse  sieve,  and 
then  through  a  tammis.  Wash  out 
the  stewpan,  return  the  soup  into  it, 
and  give  it  a  boil  up ;  take  off  any 
scum  that  rises,  and  the  soup  is 
ready.  Prepare  some  fried  bread 
and  dried  mint,  and  send  them  up 
with  it  on  two  side  dishes.  This  is 
an  excellent  family  soup,  produced 
with  very  little  trouble  or  expense, 
the  two  quarts  not  exceeding  the 
charge  of  one  shilling.  Half  a  dram 
of  bruised  celery  seed,  and  a  little 
sugar,  added  just  before  finishing 
the  soup,  will  give  it  as  much  flavour 
as  two  heads  of  the  fresh  vegetable. 
PLAIN  RICE  PUDDING.  Wash 
and  pick  some  rice,  scatter  among 
it  some  pimento  finely  powdered, 
but  not  too  much.  Tie  up  the  rice 
in  a  cloth,  and  leave  plenty  of  room 
for  it  to  swell.  Boil  it  in  a  good 
quantity  of  water  for  an  hour  or 
two,  and  serve  it  with  butter  and 
sugar,  or  milk.  Lemon  peel  may 
be  added  to  the  pudding,  but  it  is 
very  good  without  spice,  and  may 
be  eaten  with  butter  and  salt. 

PLANTING.  In  rendering 
swampy  ground  useful,  nothing  is 
so  well  adapted  as  planting  it  with 
birch  or  alder,  which  grows  spon- 
taneously on  bogs  and  swamps,  a 
kind  of  soil  which  otherwise  would 
produce  nothing  but  weeds  and 
rushes.  The  wood  of  the  alder  is 
particularly  useful  for  all  kinds  of 
machinery,  for  pipes,  drains,  and 
pump  trees,  as  it  possesses  the 
peculiar  quality  of  resisting  injury 
from  wet  and  weather.  The  bark 
260 


is  also  highly  valuable  to  black 
dyers,  who  purchase  it  at  a  good 
price  ;  and  it  is  much  to  be  lament- 
ed that  the  properties  of  this  useful 
tree  are  not  duly  appreciated, 

PLANTATIONS.  Young  planta- 
tions are  liable  to  great  injury,  by 
being  barked  in  the  winter  season. 
To  prevent  this,  take  a  quantity  of 
grease,  scent  it  with  a  little  tar,  and 
mix  them  well  together.  Brush  it 
round  the  stems  of  young  trees,  as 
high  at  least  as  hares  and  rabbits 
can  reach,  and  it  will  effectually 
prevent  their  being  barked  by  these 
animals.  Tar  must  not  be  used 
alone,  for  when  exposed  to  the  sun 
and  air,  it  becomes  hard  and  bind- 
ing, and  hinders  the  growth  of  the 
plantation.  Grease  will  not  have  this 
effect,  and  the  scent  of  the  tar  is  high- 
ly obnoxious  to  hares  and  rabbits. 

PLASTERS.  Common  plaster  is 
made  of  six  pints  of  olive  oil,  and 
two  pounds  and  a  half  of  litharge 
finely  powdered.  A  smaller  quan- 
tity may  of  course  be  made  of  equal 
proportions.  Boil  them  together 
over* a  gentle  fire,  in  about  a  gal- 
lon of  water,  and  keep  the  ingre- 
dients constantly  stirring.  After 
they  have  boiled  about  three  hours, 
a  little  of  the  salve  may  be  taken 
out,  and  put  into  cold  water.  When 
of  a  proper  consistence,  the  whole 
may  be  suffered  to  cool,  and  the 
water  pressed  out  of  it  with  the 
hands.  This  will  serve  as  a  basis 
for  other  plasters,  and  is  generally 
applied  in  slight  wounds  and  exco- 
riations of  the  skin.  It  keeps  the 
part  warm  and  supple,  and  defends 
it  from  the  air,  tvhich  is  all  that  is 
necessary  in  such  cases. — Adhesive 
plaster,  which  is  principally  used 
for  keeping  on  other  dressings,  con- 
sists of  half  a  pound  of  common 
plaster,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
Burgundy  pitch  melted  together. — 
Anodyne  plaster  is  as  follows.  Melt 
an  ounce  of  the  adhesive,  and  when 
cooling,  mix  with  it  a  dram  of  pow- 
dered opium,  and  the  same  of  cam- 


N 


PLA 


phor,  previously  rubbing  with  a  little 
oil.  This  plaster  generally  gives  ease 
in  acute  pains,  especially  of  the 
nervous  kind. — Blistering  plaster  is 
made  in  a  variety  of  ways,  but  seldom 
of  a  proper  consistence.  When  com- 
pounded of  oils,  and  other  greasy 
substances,  its  effects  are  lessened, 
and  it  is  apt  to  run,  while  pitch  and 
rosin  render  it  hard  and  inconvenient. 
The  following  will  be  found  the  best 
method.  Take  six  ounces  of  venice 
turpentine,  two  ounces  of  yellow  wax, 
three  ounces  of  Spanish  flies  finely 
powdered,  and  one  ounce  of  the  flour 
of  mustard.  Melt  the  wax,  and  while 
it  is  warm,  add  the  turpentine  to  it, 
taking  care  not  to  evaporate  it  by  too 
much  heat.  After  the  turpentine  and 
wax  are  sufficiently  incorporated, 
sprinkle  in  the  powders,  and  stir  the 
mass  till  it  is  cold.  When  the  blis- 
tering plaster  is  not  at  hand,  mix  with 
any  soft  ointment  a  sufficient  quanti- 
ty of  powdered  flies,  or  form  them 
into  a  plaster  with  flour  and  vinegar. 

PLATE.  The  best  way  to  clean 
plate,  is  to  boil  an  ounce  of  prepared 
hartshorn  powder  in  a  quart  of  wa- 
ter; and  while  on  the  fire,  put  in  as 
much  plate  as  the  vessel  will  hold. 
Let  it  boil  a  little,  then  take  it  out, 
drain  it  over  the  saucepan,  and  dry 
it  before  the  fire.  Put  in  more,  and 
serve  it  the  same,  till  all  is  done. 
Then  soak  some  clean  rags  in  the 
water,  and  when  dry  they  will  serve 
to  clean  the  plate.  Cloths  thus  sa- 
turated with  hartshorn  powder,  are 
also  the  best  things  for  cleaning  brass 
locks,  and  the  finger  plates  of  doors. 
When  the  plate  is  quite  dry,  it  must 
be  rubbed  bright  with  soft  leather. 
In  many  plate  powders  there  is  a 
mixture  of^  quicksilver,  which  is  very 
injurious;  and  among  other  disad- 
vantages, it  makes  silver  so  brittle 
that  it  will  break  with  a  fall.  In 
coaimon  cases,  whitening,  properly 
purified  from  sand,  applied  wet,  and 
rubbed  till  dry,  is  one  of  the  cheap- 
est and  best  of  all  plate  powders. 

PLATING   OF  GLASS.      Pour 


P  L  U 

some  mercury  on  a  tin  foil,  smootly 
laid  on  a  flat  table,  and  rub  it  gently 
with  a  hare's  foot.  It  soon  unites 
itself  to  the  tin,  which  then  becomes 
very  splendid,  or  is  what  they  call 
quickened.  A  plate  of  glass  is  then 
cautiously,  passed  upon  the  tin  leaf, 
in  such  a  manner  as  to  sweep  off  the 
redundant  mercury,  which  is  not  in- 
corporated with  the  tin.  Leaden 
weights  are  then  to  be  placed  on  the 
glass ;  and  in  a  little  time  the  quick- 
silvered tin  foil  adheres,  so  firmly  to 
the  glass,  that  the  weights  may  be  re- 
moved without  any  danger  of  its  fal- 
ling off.  The  glass  thus  coated  is  a 
common  looking-glass.  About  two 
ounces  of  mercury  are  sufficient  for 
covering  three  square  feet  of  glass. 

PLOVERS.  In  purchasing  plo- 
vers, choose  those  that  feel  hard  at 
the  vent,  which  shows  t^^y  are  fat. 
In  other  respects,  choose  them  by 
the  same  marks  as  other  fowl.  When 
stale,  the  feet  are  harsh  and  dry. 
They  will  keep  a  long  time.  There 
are  three  sorts  of  these  birds,  the 
grey,  the  green,  and  the  bastard  plo- 
ver, or  lapwing.  Green  plovers  are 
roasted  in  the  same  way  as  snipes 
and  woodcocks,  without  drawing, 
and  are  served  on  toast.  The  grey 
ones  may  be  roasted,  or  stewed  with 
gravy,  herbs,  and  spice. 

PLOVERS'  EGGS.  Boil  them 
ten  minutes,  and  serve  them  either 
hot  or  cold  on  a  napkin.  These  make 
a  nice  and  fashionable  dish. 

PLUM  CAKE.  This  is  such  a 
favourite  article  in  most  families,  and 
is  made  in  so  many  different  ways, 
that  it  will  be  necessary  to  give  a 
variety  of  receipts,  in  order  that  a 
selection  may  be  made  agreeably  to 
the  taste  of  the  reader,  or  the  quali- 
ty of  the  article  to  be  preferred. — 
For  a  good  common  plum  cake,  mix 
five  ounces  of  butter  in  three  pounds 
of  fine  dry  flour,  and  five  ounces  of 
the  best  moist  sugar.  Ac^^fgix  oun- 
ces of  currants,  washed  atid  dried, 
and  some  pimento  finely  powdered. 
Put  three  spoonfuls  of  yeast  into  a 
251 


P  LU 


PLU 


pint  of  new  milk  warmed,  and  mix  it 
with  the  above  into  a  light  dough. — 
A  cake  of  a  better  sort.  Mix  tho- 
roughly a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  fine 
flour  well  dried,  with  a  pound  of 
dry  and  sifted  loaf  sugar,  three 
pounds  of  currants  washed  and  very 
dry,  half  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned 
and  chopped,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  mace  and  cloves,  twenty,  pepper- 
corns, a  grated  nutmeg,  the  peel  of 
a  lemon  cut  as  fine  as  possible,  and 
half  a  pound  of  almonds  blanched 
and  beaten  with  orange-flower  water. 
Melt  two  pounds  of  butter  in  a  pint 
and  a  quarter  of  cream,  but  not  too 
hot ;  add  a  pint  of  sweet  wine,  a 
glass  of  brandy,  the  whites  and  yolks 
of  twelve  eggs  beaten  apart,  and 
half  a  pint  of  good  yeast.  Strain 
this  liquid  by  degrees  into  the  dry 
ingredients,  beating  them  together 
a  full  hour ;  then  butter  the  hoop 
or  pan,  and  bake  it.  When  the  bat- 
ter is  put  into  the  pan,  throw  in 
plenty  of  citron,  lemon,  and  orange 
candy.  If  the  cake  is  to  be  iced, 
take  half  a  pound  of  double  refined 
sugar  sifted,  and  put  a  little  with 
the  white  of  an  egg ;  beat  it  well, 
and  by  degrees  pour  in  the  re- 
mainder. It  must  be  whisked  nearly 
an  hour,  with  the  addition  of  a  little 
orange-flower  water,  but  not  too 
much.  When  the  cake  is  done, 
pour  the  iceing  over  it,  and  return  it 
to  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  But 
if  the  oven  be  quite  warm,  keep  it 
near  the  mouth,  and  the  door  open, 
lest  the  colour  be  spoiled. — Another. 
Dried  flour,  currants  washed  and 
picked,  four  pounds  ;  sugar  pounded 
and  sifted,  a  pound  and  a  half ;  six 
orange,  lemon,  and  citron  peels,  cut 
in  slices.  These  are  to  be  mixed 
together.  Beat  ten  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  separately.  Melt  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  butter  in  a  pint  of 
cream ;  when  cold,  put  to  it  half  a 
pint  of  yeast,  near  half  a  pint  of 
sweet  wine,  and  the  eggs.  Then 
strain  the  liquid  to  the  dry  ingre- 
dients, beat  them  well,  and   add  of 


cloves,  mace,  cinnamon,  and  nut- 
meg, half  an  ounce  each.  Butter 
the  pan,  and  put  it  into  a  quick 
oven.  Three  hours  will  bake  it. — 
Another.  Mix  with  a  pound  of  well- 
dried  flour,  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar, 
and  the  eighth  of  an  ounce  of  mace, 
well  beaten.  Beat  up  five  eggs 
with  half  the  whites,  a  gill  of  rose 
water,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
yeast,  and  strain  them.  Melt  hal 
a  pound  of  butter  in  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  cream,  and  when  cool,  mix 
all  together.  Beat  up  the  batter 
with  a  light  hand,  and  set  it  to  rise 
half  an  hour.  Before  it  is  put  into 
the  oven,  mix  in  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  currants,  well  washed  and  dried, 
and  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  quarter. 
— For  a  rich  cake,  take  three  pounds 
of  well-dried  flour,  three  pounds  of 
fresh  butter,  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
fine  sugar  dried  and  sifted,  five 
pounds  of  currants  carefully  cleaned 
and  dried,  twenty-four  eggs,  three 
grated  nutmegs,  a  little  pounded 
mace  and  cloves,  half  a  pound  of 
almonds,  a  glass  of  sack,  and  a 
pound  of  citron  or  orange  peel. 
Pound  the  almonds  in  rose  water, 
work  up  the  butter  to  a  thin  cream, 
put  in  the  sugar,  and  work  it  well ; 
then  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  the  spices, 
the  almonds,  and  orange  peel.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth, 
and  put  them  into  the  batter  as  it 
rises.  Keep  working  it  with  the 
hand  till  the  oven  is  ready,  and  the 
scorching  subsided ;  put  it  into  a 
hoop,  but  not  full,  and  two  hours 
will  bake  it.  The  almonds  should 
be  blanched  in  cold  water.  This 
will  make  a  large  rich  plum  cake. — 
A  small  common  cake  may  be  made 
of  a  pound  of  dough,  a  quarter  of  a 
pouad  of  butter,  two  eggs,  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  lump  sugar,  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  currants,  and  a  little 
nutmeg. — Another.  Take  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  fine  white  dough,  roll 
into  it  a  pound  of  butter,  as  for  pie 
crust,  and  set  it  by  the  fire.  Beat 
up  the  \olks  of  four  eggs,  with  half 


eL\] 


PLU 


a  pound  of  fine  powdered  sugar; 
pour  it  upon  the  mass,  and  work  it 
well  by  the  fire.  Add  half  a  pound 
of  currants,  well  picked  and  wash- 
ed, and  send  it  to  the  oven.  Half 
the  quantity  of  sugar,  eggs,  and  but- 
ter, will  make  a  very  pleasant  cake. 
— Another.  A  pound  and  a  half  of 
well-dried  flour,  a  pound  of  butter, 
a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  pound  of 
currants,  picked  and  washed.  Beat 
up  eight  eggs,  warm  the  butter, 
mix  all  together,  and  beat  it  up  for 
an  hour.— For  little  plum  cakes,  in- 
tended to  keep  for  some  time,  dry 
a  pound  of  fine  flour,  and  mix  it 
with  six  ounces  of  finely  pounded 
sugar.  Beat  six  ounces  of  butter 
to  a  cream,  and  add  to  three  eggs 
well  beaten,  half  a  pound  of  cur- 
rants nicely  washed  and  dried,  to- 
gether with  the  sugar  and  flour. 
Beat  all  for  some  time,  then  dredge 
some  flour  on  tin  plates,  and  drop 
the  batter  on  them  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  If  properly  mixed,  it  will  be 
a  stiff*  paste.  Bake  in  a  brisk  oven. 
To  make  a  rich  plum  cake,  take  four 
pounds  of  flour  well  dried,  mix  with 
it  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  sugar 
powdered,  a  grated  nutmeg,  and 
an  ounce  of  mace  pounded  fine. 
When  they  are  well  mixed,  make  a 
hole  in  the  middle,  and  pour  in  fif- 
teen eggs,  but  seven  whites,  well 
beaten,  with  a  pint  of  good  yeast, 
half  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  orange- 
flower  water,  and  the  same  quan- 
tity of  sack,  or  any  other  rich  sweet 
wine.  Then  melt  two  pounds  and 
a  half  of  butter  in  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  cream ;  and  when  it  is  about 
the  warmth  of  new  milk,  pour  it  in- 
to the  middle  of  the  batter.  Throw 
a  little  of  the  flour  over  the  liquids, 
but  do  not  mix  the  whole  together 
till  it  is  ready  to  go  into  the  oven. 
Let  it  stand  before  the  fire  an  hour 
to  rise,  laying  a  cloth  over  it ;  then 
have  ready  six  pounds  of  currants 
well  washed,  picked,  and  dried;  a 
pound  of  citron  and  a  pound  of 
orange  peel  sliced,  with  a  pound  of 


blanched  almonds,  half  cut  in  slices 
lengthways,  and  half  finely  pounded. 
Mix  all  well  together,  buttfer  the  tin 
well,  and  bake  it  two  hours  and  a 
half.  This  will  make  a  large  cake. 
— Another,  not  quite  so  rich.  Three 
pounds  of  flour  well  dried,  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  spice,  nutmeg,  mace,  and  cin- 
namon, well  pounded.  Add  ten 
eggs,  but  only  half  the  whites, 
beaten  with  a  pint  of  good  yeast. 
Melt  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  pint  of 
cream,  add  it  to  the  yeast,  and  let 
it  stand  an  hour  to  rise  before  the 
fire.  Then  add  three  pounds  of 
currants  well  washed,  picked  and 
dried.  Butter  the  tin,  and  bake  it 
an  hour. — A  common  plum  cake  is 
made  of  three  pounds  and  a  half  of 
flour,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  grated 
nutmeg,  eight  eggs,  a  glass  of  bran- 
dy, half  a  pint  of  yeast,  a  pound  of 
butter  melted  in  a  pint  and  half  of 
milk,  put  lukewarm  to  the  other  in- 
gredients. Let  it  rise  an  hour  before 
the  fire,  then  mix  it  well  together, 
add  two  pounds  of  currants  carefully 
cleaned,  butter  the  tin,  and  bake  it. 

PLUM  JAM.  Cut  some  ripe 
plums  to  pieces,  put  them  into  a 
preserving  pan,  bruise  them  with  a 
spoon,  warm  them  over  the  fire  till 
they  are  soft,  and  press  them  through 
a  cullender.  Boil  the  jam  an  hour, 
stir  it  well,  add  six  ounces  of  fine 
powdered  sugar  to  every  pound  of 
jam,  and  take  it  ofl"  the  fire  to  mix 
it.  Then  heat  it  ten  minutes,  put 
it  into  jars,  and  sift  some  fine  sugar 
over  it. 

PLUM  PUDDING.  Take  six 
ounces  of  suet  chopped  fine,  six  oun- 
ces of  malaga  raisins  stoned,  eight 
ounces  of  currants  nicely  washed  and 
picked,  three  ounces  of  bread  crumbs, 
three  ounces  of  flour,  and  three  eggs. 
Add  the  sixth  part  of  a  grated  nut- 
meg, a  small  blade  of  mace,  the  same 
quantity  of  cinnamon,  pounded  as 
fine  as  possible ;  half  a  tea-sppionful 
of  salt,  nearly  half  a  pint  of  milk, 
four  ounces  of  sugar,  an  ounce  of 
253 


P  LU 


PLU 


candied  lemon,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
citron.  Beat  the  eggs  and  spice  well 
together,  mix  the  milk  with  them  by 
degrees,  and  then  the  rest  of  the  in- 
gredients. Dip  a  fine  close  linen 
cloth  into  boiling  water,  and  put  it 
in  a  hair  sieve,  flour  it  a  little,  and 
tie  the  pudding  up  close.  Put  it  into 
a  saucepan  containing  six  quarts  of 
boihng  water ;  keep  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  near  it,  to  fill  up  the  pot  as  it 
wastes,  and  keep  it  boiling  six  hours. 
If  the  water  ceases  to  boil,  the  pud- 
ding will  become  heavy,  and  be 
spoiled.  Plum  puddings  are  best 
when  mixed  an  hour  or  two  before 
they  are  boiled,  as  the  various  ingre- 
dients by  that  means  incorporate,  and 
the  whole  becomes  richer  and  fuller 
of  flavour,  especially  if  the  various 
ingredients  be  thoroughly  well  stirred 
together.  A  table-spoonful  of  trea- 
cle will  give  the  pudding  a  rich  brown 
colour. — Another.  Beat  up  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs, 
strain  them  through  a  sieve,  gradu- 
ally add  to  them  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
milk,  and  stir  it  well  together.  Rub 
in  a  mortar  two  ounces  of  moist  su- 
gar, with  as  much  grated  nutmeg  as 
will  lie  on  a  six-pence,  and  stir  these 
into  the  eggs  and  milk.  Then  put  in 
four  ounces  of  flour,  and  beat  it  into 
a  smooth  batter ;  by  degrees  stir  into 
it  seven  ounces  of  suet,  minced  as  fine 
as  possible,  and  three  ounces  of  bread 
crumbs.  Mix  all  thoroughly  toge- 
ther, at  least  half  an  hour  before  the 
pudding  is  put  into  the  pot.  Put  it 
into  an  earthenware  pudding  mould, 
well  buttered,  tie  a  pudding  cloth 
tight  over  it,  put  it  into  boiling  water, 
and  boil  it  three  hours.  Haifa  pound 
of  raisins  cut  in  halves,  and  added  to 
the  above,  will  make  a  most  admira- 
ble plum  pudding.  This  pudding 
may  also  be  baked,  or  put  under 
roast  meat,  like  a  Yorkshire  pudding. 
In  the  latter  case,  half  a  pint  more 
milk  must  be  added,  and  the  batter 
should  be  an  inch  and  a  quarter  in 
♦  thickness.  It  will  take  full  two  hours, 
^  and  require  careful  watching  ;  for  if 
284 


the  top  get  burned,  an  unpleasant 
flavour  will  pervade  the  whole  pud- 
ding. Or  butter  some  saucers,  and 
fill  them  with  batter ;  in  a  dutch  oven 
they  will  bake  in  about  an  hour. — 
Another.  To  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  flour,  add  the  same  weight 
of  stoned  raisins,  half  a  pound  of 
suet  or  marrow,  cut  small,  a  pint  of 
milk,  two  eggs,  three  spoonfuls  of 
moist  sugar,  and  a  little  salt.  Boil 
the  pudding  five  hours. — To  make  a 
small  rich  plum  pudding,  take  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  suet  finely 
shred,  half  a  pound  of  stoned  raisins 
a  little  chopped,  three  spoonfuls  of 
flour,  three  spoonfuls  of  moist  su- 
gar, a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  three 
yolks  of  eggs,  and  two  whites.  Boil 
the  pudding  four  hours  in  a  basin 
of  tin  mould,  well  buttered.  Serve 
it  up  with  melted  butter,  white  wine 
and  sugar,  poured  over  it. — For  a 
large  rich  pudding,  take  three  pounds 
of  suet  chopped  small,  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  currants,  three 
pounds  of  flour,  sixteen  eggs,  and  a 
quart  of  milk.  Boil  it  in  a  cloth  seven 
hours.  If  for  baking,  put  in  only  a 
pint  of  milk,  with  two  additional 
eggs,  and  an  hour  and  a  half  will 
bake  it. — A  plum  pudding  without 
eggs  may  be?  made  of  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  flour,  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  suet  chopped  fine, 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  stoned 
raisins,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
currants  well  washed  and  dried,  a 
tea- spoonful  of  ground  ginger,  and 
rather  more  of  salt.  Stir  all  well  to- 
gether, and  add  as  little  milk  as  will 
just  mix  it  up  quite  stiff".  Boil  the 
pudding  four  hours  in  a  buttered  ba- 
sin.— Another.  The  same  propor- 
tions  of  flour  and  suet,  and  half  the 
quantity  of  fruit,  with  spice,  lemon, 
a  glass  of  white  wine,  an  egg  and 
milk,  will  make  an  excellent  pudding, 
but  it  must  be  well  boiled. 

POACHED  EGGS.  Set  a  stew- 
pan  of  water  on  the  fire ;  when  boil- 
ing, slip  an  eggy   previously  broken 


PO 


P  U  L 


into  a  cup,  into  the  water.  When 
the  white  looks  done  enough,  slide 
an  egg-slice  under  the  egg,  and  lay 
it  on  toast  and  butter,  or  boiled 
spinach.  As  soon  as  done  enough, 
serve  them  up  hot.  If  the  eggs  be 
not  fresh  laid,  they  will  not  poach 
well,  nor  without  breaking.  Trim 
the  ragged  parts  of  the  whites,  and 
make  them  look  round. 

POISON.  Whenever  a  quantity 
of  arsenic  has  been  swallowed,  by 
design  or  mistake,  its  effects  may 
be  counteracted  by  immediately 
drinking  plenty  of  milk.  The  pa- 
tient should  afterwards  take  a  dram 
of  the  liver  of  sulphur,  in  a  pint  of 
warm  water,  a  little  at  a  time  as  he 
can  bear  it ;  or  he  may  substitute 
some  soap  water,  a  quantity  of  com- 
mon ink,  or  any  other  acid,  if  other 
things  cannot  be  readily  procured. — 
To  obviate  the  ill  effects  of  opium, 
taken  either  in  a  liquid  or  solid  form, 
emetics  should  be  given  as  speedily 
as  possible.  These  should  consist 
of  an  ounce  each  of  oxymel  squills 
and  spearmint  water,  and  half  a 
scruple  of  ipecacuanha,  accompa- 
nied with  frequent  draughts  of  water 
gruel  to  assist  the  operation. — Those 
poisons  which  may  be  called  culina- 
ry, are  generally  the  most  destruc- 
tive, because  the  least  suspected ; 
no  vessels  therefore  made  of  copper 
or  brass  should  be  used  in  cooking. 
In  cases  where  the  poison  of  rirdi- 
gris  has  been  recently  swallowed, 
emetics  should  first  be  given,  and 
then  the  patient  should  drink  abun- 
dance of  cold  water. — If  any  one 
has  eaten  of  the  deadly  nightshade, 
he  should  take  an  emetic  as  soon  as 
possible,  and  drink  a  pint  of  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice  in  an  equal  quantity 
of  water,  a  little  at  a  time ;  afad  as 
sleep  would  prove  fatal,  he  should 
keep  walking  about  to  prevent  it. — 
For  the  bite  of  the  mad  dog,  or  other 
venomous  animals, nothing  is  to  be  de- 
pended on  for  a  cure  but  immediate- 
ly cutting  out  the  bitten  part  with  a 
lancet,  or  burning  it  out  with  a  red- 


hot  iron. — To  prevent  the  baneful 
effects  of  burning  charcoal,  set  an 
open  vessel  of  boiling  water  upon 
the  pan  containing  the  charcoal,  and 
keep  it  boiling.  The  steam  arising 
from  the  water  will  counteract  the 
effects  of  the  charcoal.  Painters, 
glaziers,  and  other  artificers,  should 
be  careful  to  avoid  the  poisonous 
effects  of  lead,  by  washing  their 
hands  and  face  clean  before  meals, 
and  by  never  eating  in  the  place 
where  they  work,  nor  suffering  any 
food  or  drink  to  remain  exposed  to 
the  fumes  or  dust  of  the  metal. 
Every  business  of  this  sort  should 
be  performed  as  far  as  possible  with 
gloves  on  the  hands,  to  prevent  the 
metal  from  working  into  the  pores 
of  the  skin,  which  is  highly  injuri- 
ous, and  lead  should  never  be  touch- 
ed when  it  is  hot. 

POIVRADE  SAUCE.  Pick  the 
skins  of  twelve  shalots,  chop  them 
small,  mix  with  them  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  veal  gravy,  a  gill  and  a  half 
of  vinegar,  half  an  anchovy  pressed 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  a  little  salt 
and  cayenne.  If  it  is  to  be  eaten 
with  hot  game,  serve  it  up  boiling  : 
if  with  cold,  the  sauce  is  to  be  cold 
likewise. — Another  way.  Put  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  half  an 
egg  into  a  saucepan,  with  two  or  Jr 
three  shced  onions,  some  of  the  red 
outward  part, of  carrots,  and  of  the 
part  answering  to  it  of  parsnip,  a 
clove  of  garlic,  two  shalots,  two 
cloves,  a  bay  leaf,  with  basil  and 
thyme.  Shake  the  whole  over  the 
fire  till  it  begins  to  colour,  then  add 
a  good  pinch  of  flour,  a  glass  of 
red  wine,  a  glass  of  water,  and  a 
spoonful  of  vinegar.  Boil  it  half 
an  hour,  take  off  the  fat,  pass  the 
sauce  through  a  tammis,  add  some 
salt  and  pepper,  and  use  it  with  any 
thing  that  requires  a  relishing  sauce. 

POLISHED  STOVES.  Steel  or 
polished  stoves  may  be  well  cleaned 
in  a  few  minutes,  by  using  a  piece 
of  fine-corned  emery  stone,  and  af- 
terwards polishing  with  flour  of 
255 


POM 


PON 


emery  or  rottenstone.  If  stoves  or 
fire  irons  have  acquired  any  rust, 
pound  some  glass  to  line  powder; 
and  having  nailed  some  strong  wool- 
len cloth  upon  a  board,  lay  upon  it 
a  thick  coat  of  gum  water,  and  sift 
the  powdered  glass  upon  it,  and  let 
it  dry.  This  may  be  repeated  as 
often  as  is  necessary  to  form  a  sharp 
surface,  and  with  this  the  rust  may 
easily  be  rubbed  off;  but  care  must 
be  taken  to  have  the  glass  finely 
powdered,  and  the  gum  well  dried, 
or  the  polish  on  the  irons  will  be  in- 
jured. Fire  arms,  or  similar  articles, 
may  be  kept  clean  for  several  months, 
if  rubbed  with  a  mixture  consisting 
of  one  ounce  of  camphor  dissolved  in 
two  pounds  of  hog's  lard,  boiled  and 
skimmed,  and  coloured  with  a  little 
black  lead.  The  mixture  should  be 
left  on  twenty  four  hours  to  dry,  and 
then  rubbed  off  with  a  linen  cloth. 

POMADE  DIVINE.  Clear  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  beef  marrow  from 
the  strings  and  bone,  put  it  into  an 
earthen  pan  of  fresh  water  from  the 
spring,  and  change  the  water  night 
and  morning  for  ten  days.  Then 
steep  it  in  rose  watier  twenty  four 
hours,  and  drain  it  in  a  cloth  till  quite 
dry.     Take  an  ounce  of  each  of  the 

•following  articles,  namely,  storax, 
gum  benjamin,  odoriferous  cypress 
powder,  or  of  florence ;  half  an  ounce 
of  cinnamon,  two  drams  of  cloves, 
and  two  drams  of  nutmeg,  all  finely 
powdered.  Mix  them  with  the  mar- 
row above  prepared,  and  put  all  the 
ingredients  into  a  pewter  pot  that 
holds  three  quarts.  Make  a  paste 
of  flour  and  the  white  of  an  egg,  and 
lay  itikpon  a  piece  of  rag.  Over  that 
must  be  another  piece  of  linen,  to 
W  cover  the  top  of  the  pot  very  close, 
that  none  of  the  steam  may  evapo- 
rate. Set  the  pot  into  a  large  copper 
pot  of  water,  observing  to  keep  it 
steady,  that  it  may  not  reaeh  to  the 
covering  of  the  pot  iiat  holds  the 
marrtiw.  As  the  water  shrinks  add 
more,  boiling  hot,  for  it  must  boil 
incessantly  for  four  hours.  Strain 
25G 


the  ointment  through  a  linen  cioth 
into  small  pots,  and  cover  them  when 
cold.  Do  not  touch  it  with  any  thing 
but  silver,  and  it  will  keep  many 
years.  A  fine  pomatum  may  also 
be  made  by  putting  half  a  pound  of 
fresh  marrow  prepared  as  above,  and 
two  ounces  of  fresh  hog's  lard,  on  the 
ingredients  ;  and  then  observing  the 
same  process  as  above. 

POMATUM.  To  make  soft  po- 
matum, beat  half  a  pound  of  unsalt- 
ed  fresh  lard  in  common  water,  then 
soak  and  beat  in  two  different  rose- 
waters.  Drain  it,  and  beat  it,  with 
two  spoonfuls  of  brandy.  Let  it 
drain  from  this,  then  add  some  es- 
sence of  lemon,  and  keep  it  in  small 
pots.  Or  soak  half  a  pound  of  clear 
beef  marrow,  and  a  pound  of  unsalt- 
ed  fresh  lard,  in  water  two  or  three 
days,  changing  and  beating  it  every 
day.  Put  it  into  a  sieve  ;  and  when 
dry,  into  a  jar,  and  the  jar,  into  a 
saucepan  of  water.  When  melted, 
pour  it  into  a  bason,  and  beat  it  with 
two  spoonfuls  of  brandy.  Drain  oft' 
the  brandy,  and  add  essence  of  lemon, 
bergamot,  or  any  other  scent  that  is 
preferred. — For  hard  pomatum,  pre- 
pare as  before  equal  quantities  of 
beef  marrow  and  mutton  suet,  using 
the  brandy  to  preserve  it,  and  adding 
the  scent.  Then  pour  it  into  moulds, 
or  phials,  of  the  size  intended  for  the 
rolls.  When  cold  break  the  bottles, 
clear  away  the  glass  carefully,  and 
put  paper  round  the  balls, 

PONDS.  Stagnant  or  running 
water  is  often  infected  with  weeds, 
which  become  troublesome  and  in- 
jurious to  the  occupier,  but  which 
might  easily  be  prevented  by  suffer- 
ing geese,  or  particularly  swans,  to 
feed  upon  the  surface.  These  water 
fowls,  by  nibbling  the  young  shoots 
as  fast  as  they  arise,  will  prevent 
their  growth  and  appearance  on  the 
surface  of  the  water,  and  all  the  ex- 
pense which  might  otherwise  be  in- 
curred in  clearing  them  awav. 

POOR  MAN'S  SAUCE. "  Pick  a 
handful  of  parsley  leaves  from  the 


P  O  R 


POR 


stalks,  mince  them  very  fine,  and 
strew  over  a  little  salt.  Shred  fine 
half  a  dozen  young  green  onions, 
add  these  to  the  parsley,  and  put 
them  into  a  sauce  boat,  with  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  oil,  and  five  of 
vinegar.  Add  some  ground  black 
pepper  and  salt,  stir  them  together, 
and  it  is  ready.  Pickled  French 
beans  or  gherkins  cut  fine,  may  be 
added,  or  a  little  grated  horseradish. 
This  sauce  is  much  esteemed  in 
France,  where  people  of  taste,  weary 
of  rich  dishes,  occasionally  order 
the  fare  of  the  peasant. 

PORK.  This  is  a  strong  fat 
meat,  and  unless  very  nicely  fed,  it 
is  fit  only  for  hard  working  people. 
Young  pigs,  like  lamb  and  veal, 
are  fat  and  luscious,  but  afford  very 
little  nutriment.  Pork  fed  by  but- 
chers, or  at  distilleries,  is  vei-y  in- 
ferior, and  scarcely  wholesome ;  it 
is  fat  and  spongy,  and  utterly  un- 
fit for  curing.  Dairy  fed  pork  is 
the  best.  To  judge  of  pork,  pinch 
the  lean ;  and  if  young  and  good, 
it  will  easily  part.  If  the  rind  is 
tough,  thick,  and  cannot  easily  be 
impressed  with  the  finger,  it  is  old. 
A  thin  rind  denotes  a  good  quality 
in  general.  When  fresh,  the  meat 
will  be  smooth  and  cool :  if  clam- 
my, it  is  tainted.  What  is  called  in 
some  places  measly  pork,  is  very 
unwholesome  ;  and  may  be  known 
by  the  fat  being  full  of  kernels, 
which  in  good  pork  is  never  the  case. 
Bacon  hogs  and  porkers  are  dif- 
ferently cut  up.  Hogs  are  kept  to 
a  larger  size  ;  the  chine  or  back- 
bone is  cut  down  on  each  side,  the 
whole  length,  and  is  a  prime  part 
either  boiled  or  roasted.  The  sides 
of  the  hog  are  made  into  bacon,  and 
the  inside  is  cut  out  with  very  little 
meat  to  the  bone  On  each  side 
there  is  a  large  sparerib,  which  is 
usually  divided  into  two,  a  sweet 
bone  and  a  blade  bone.  The  bacon 
is  the  whole  outside,  and  contains  a 
fore  leg  and  a  ham  ;  the  last  of  these 
is  the  hind  leg,  but  if  left  with  the 


bacon  it  is  called  a  gammon.  Hog^s 
lard  is  the  inner  fat  of  the  bacon 
hog,  melted  down.  Pickled  pork  is 
made  of  the  flesh  of  the  hog,  but 
more  frequently  of  smaller  and 
younger  meat.  Porkers  are  not  so 
large  as  hogs,  and  are  generally  di- 
vided into  four  quarters.  The  fore 
quarter  has  the  spring  or  fore  leg, 
the  fore  loin  or  neck,  the  sparerib, 
and  the  griskin.  The  hind  quarter 
has  the  leg  and  the  loin.  Pig's  feet 
and  ears  make  various  good  dishes, 
and  should  be  cut  off  before  the  legs 
and  cheeks  are  cured.  The  bacon 
hog  is  sometimes  scalded,  to  take 
oft'  the  hair,  and  sometimes  singed. 
The  porker  is  always  scalded. 

PORK  CHOPS.  Cut  the  chops 
nearly  half  an  inch  thick,  trim  them 
neatly,  and  beat  them  flat.  Put  a 
piece  of  butter  into  the  fryingpan ; 
as  soon  as  it  is  hot,  put  in  the  chops, 
turn  them  often,  and  they  will  be 
nicely  browned  in  fifteen  minutes. 
Take  one  upon  a  plate  and  try  it ; 
if  done,  season  it  with  a  little  finely 
minced  onion,  powdered  sage,  pep- 
per and  salt.  Or  prepare  some 
sweet  herbs,  sage  and  onion  chop- 
ped fine,  and  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  bit  of  butter.  Give  them 
one  fry,  beat  two  eggs  on  a  plate 
with  a  little  salt,  and  the  minced 
herbs,  and  mix  it  all  well  together. 
Dip  the  chops  in  one  at  a  time, 
then  cover  them  with  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  them  in  hot  lard  or  drip- 
pings, till  they  are  of  a  light  brown. 
Veal,  lamb,  or  mutton  chops,  are 
very  good  dressed  in  the  same  man- 
ner. ^ 

PORK  GRISKIN.  As  fhis  joint 
is  usually  very  hard,  the  best  way 
is  to  cover  it  with  cold  water,  and 
let  it  boil  up.  Then  take  it  out, 
rub  it  over  with  butter,  and  set  it 
before  the  fire  in  a  Dutch  oven  ;  a 
few  minut^will  do  it. 

PORK  Jelly.  Tak©  a  leg  of 
well-fed  pork,  just  as  cut  upr,  beat  it, 
and  break  the  bone.  Set  it  over  a 
gentle   fire,    with   three   gallons   of 

I.  1  257 


EOR 


FOR 


!  water,  and  simmer  it  down  to  one. 

Stew  with  it  half  an  ounce  of  mace, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  nutmegs,  and 
strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve.  When 
cold,  take  off*  the  fat,  and  flavour  it 
with  salt.  This  jelly  is  reckoned  a 
fine  restorative  in  consumptive  cases, 
and  nervous  debility,  a  chocolate- 
cupful  to  be  taken  three  times  a 
day. 

PORK  AS  LAMB.  To  dress 
pork  like  lamb,  kill  a  young  pig  four 
or  five  months  old,  cut  up  the  fore- 
quarter  for  roasting  as  you  do  lamb, 
and  truss  the  shank  close.  The 
other  parts  will  make  delicate  pickled 
pork,  steaks,  or  pies. 

PORK  PIES.  Raise  some  boiled 
crust  into  a  round  or  oval  form,  and 
have  ready  the  trimming  and  small 
bits  of  pork  when  a  hog  is  killed. 
If  these  be  not  sufticient,  take  the 
meat  of  a  sweet  bone.  Beat  it  well 
with  a  rolling-pin,  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  keep  the  fat  and 
lean  separate.  Put  it  in  layers,  quite 
up  to  the  top  ;  lay  on  the  lid,  cut  the 
edge  smooth  round,  and  pinch  it  to- 
gether. As  the  meat  is  very  solid, 
it  must  be  baked  in  a  slow  soaking 
oven.  The  pork  may  be  put  into  a 
common  dish,  with  a  very  plain  crust, 
and  be  quite  as  good.  Observe  to 
put  no  bone  or  water  into  pork  pie  : 
the  outside  pieces  will  be  hard,  un- 
less they  are  cut  small,  and  pressed 
close.  Pork  pies  in  a  raised  crust, 
are  intended  to  be  eaten  cold. 

PORK  SAUCE.     Take  two  oun- 

^       ces  of  the  leaves  of  green  sage,  an 

Bf      ounce  of  lemon  peel  thinly  pared,  an 

^      ounce  ai  minced  shalot,  an  ounce  of 

salt,  haff  a  dram  of  cayenne,  and  half 

a  dram  of  citric  acid.     Steep  them 

for   a  fortnight  in  a  pint  of  claret, 

shake  it  often,  and  let  it  stand  a  day 

to  settle.     Decant  the  clear  liquor, 

and  cork  it  up  close.    When  wanted, 

mix  a  table-spoonful  in  a  quarter  of 

a  pint  of  gravy,  or  m«ted  butter. 

This  will  give  a  fine  relish  to  roast 

pork,  or  roast  goose. 

PORK    SAUSAGES.     Chop  fat 
2o0 


and  lean  pork  together,  season  it  ^yith 
pepper,  salt,  and  sage.  Fill  hogs' 
guts  that  have  been  thoroughly  soak- 
ed and  cleaned,  and  tie  up  the  ends 
carefully.  Or  the  minced  meat  may 
be  kept  in  a  very  small  pan,  closely 
covered,  and  so  rolled  and  dusted 
with  flour  before  it  is  fried.  Serve 
them  up  with  stewed  red  cabbage, 
mashed  potatoes,  or  poached  eggs. 
The  sausages  should  be  pricked  with 
a  pin,  before  they  are  boiled  or  fried, 
or  they  will  be  liable  to  burst. 

PORK  STEAKS.  Cut  them  from 
a  loin  or  neck,  and  of  middling  thick- 
ness. Pepper  and  broil  them,  and 
keep  them  turning.  When  nearly 
done,  put  on  salt,  rub  a  bit  of  butter 
over,  and  serve  the  moment  they 
are  taken  off"  the  fire,  a  few  at  a  time. 

PORKER'S  HEAD.  Choose  a 
fine  young  head  of  pork,  clean  it  well, 
and  put  bread  and  sage  as  for  pig. 
Sow  it  up  tight,  roast  it  as  a  young 
pig,  on  the  hanging  jack,  and  serve 
it  with  the  same  kind  of  sauce. 

PORTABLE  SOUP.  Boil  one 
or  two  knuckles  of  veal,  one  or  two 
shins  of  beef,  and  three  pounds  of 
beef,  in  as  much  water  only  as  will 
cover  them.  Take  the  marrow  out 
of  the  bones,  put  in  any  kind  of  spice, 
and  three  large  onions.  When  the 
meat  is  done  to  rags,  strain  it  off*, 
and  set  it  in  a  very  cold  place.  Take 
oflf  the  cake  of  fat,  which  will  do  for 
common  pie  crusts,  and  put  the  soup 
into  a  double-bottomed  tin  saucepan  , 
Set  it  on  a  pretty  quick  fire,  but  do 
not  let  it  burn.  It  must  boil  fast  and 
uncovered,  and  be  stirred  constantly 
for  eight  hours.  Put  it  into  a  pan, 
and  let  it  stand  in  a  cold  place  a  day ; 
then  pour  it  into  a  round  soup-dish, 
and  set  the  dish  into  a  stewpan.of 
boiling  water  on  a  stove,  and  let  it 
boil.  Stir  it  now  and  then,  till  the 
soup  is  thick  and  ropy ;  then  it  is 
enough.  Pour  it  into  the  little  round 
part  at  the  bottom  of  cups  and  ba- 
sons turned  upside  down,  to  form 
it  into  cakes ;  and  when  cold,  turn 
them  out  on  flUnnel  to  dry.     Keep 


POR 


POT 


them  in  tin  canisters ;  and  when  to  be 
used,  dissolve  them  in  boiling  water. 
The  flavour  of  herbs  may  be  added, 
by  first  boiling  and  straining  off  the 
liquor,  and  melting  the  soup  in  it.  This 
preparation  is  convenient  in  travel- 
ling, or  at  sea,  where  fresh  meat  is 
not  readily  obtained,  as  by  this  means 
a  bason  of  soup  may  be  made  in  five 
minutes. 

PORTER.  This  pleasant  beve- 
rage may  be  made  with  eight  bushels 
of  malt  to  the  hogshead,  and  eight 
pounds  of  hops.  While  it  is  boiling 
in  the  copper,  add  to  it  three  pounds 
of  liquorice  root  bruised,  a  pound  of 
Spanish  liquorice,  and  twelve  pounds 
of  coarse  sugar  or  treacle.- 

PORTUGAL  CAKES.  Take  a 
pound  of  well-dried  flour,  a  pound  of 
loaf  sugar,  a  pound  of  butter  well 
washed  in  orange-flower  water,  and  a 
large  blade  of  mace.  Take  half  the 
flour,  and  fifteen  eggs,  leaving  out 
two  of  the  whites,  and  work  them 
well  together  with  the  butter  for  half 
an  hour,  shaking  in  the  rest  of  the 
flour  with  a  dredger.  Put  the  cakes 
into  a  cool  oven,  strewing  over  them  a 
little  sugar  and  flour,  and  let  them 
bake  gently  half- an  hour. 

PORTUGUESE  SOLES.  If  the 
fish  be  large,  cut  it  in  two :  if  small, 
they  need  only  be  split  open.  The 
bones  being  taken  out,  put  the  fish 
into  a  pan  with  a  bit  of  butter,  and 
some  lemon  juice.  Fry  it  lightly, 
lay  it  on  a  dish,  spread  a  forcemeat 
over  each  piece,  and  roll  it  round, 
fastening  the  roll  with  a  few  small 
skewers.  Lay  the  rolls  into  a  small 
earthen  pan,  beat  up  an  eg^  and 
smear  them,  and  strew  some  crumbs 
over.  Put  the  remainder  of  the  e^g 
into  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  with  a 
little  meat  gravy,  a  spoonful  of  caper 
liquor,  an  anchovy  chopped  fine,  and 
some  minced  parsley.  Cover  the 
pan  close,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
till  the  fish  is  done  enough.  Place 
the  rolls  in  a  dish  for  serving,  and 
cover  it  to  keep  them  hot  till  the 
baked   gravy   is  skimmed.      If  not 


enough,  a  little  fresh  gravy  must  be 
prepared,  flavoured  as  above,  and 
added  to  the  fish.  This  is  the  Portu- 
guese way  of  dressing  soles. 

PO,RTUGUESE  STUFFING. 
Pound  lightly  some  cold  beef,  veal, 
or  mutton.  Add  some  fat  bacon 
lightly  fried  and  cut  small,  some 
onions,  a  little  garlic  or  shalot,  some 
parsley,  anchovy,  pepper,  salt,  and 
nutmeg.  Pound  all  fine  with  a  few 
crumbs,  and  bind  it  with  two  or 
three  yolks  of  eggs.  This  stuffing  is 
for  baked  soles,  the  heads  of  which 
are  to  be  left  on  one  side  of  the  split 
part,  and  kept  on  the  outer  side  of 
the  roll ;  and  when  served,  the  heads 
are  to  be  turned  towards  each  other 
in  the  dish.  Garnish  with  fried  or 
dried  parsley. 

POT  HERBS.  As  some  of  these 
are  very  pungent,  they  require  to  be 
used  with  discretion,  particularly 
basil,  savoury,  thyme,  or  knotted 
marjoram.  The  other  sorts  are 
milder,  and  may  be  used  more  freely. 

POT  POURRI.  Put  into  a  large 
china  jar  the  following  ingredients 
in  layers,  with  bay  salt  strewed  be- 
tween. Two  pecks  of  damask  roses, 
part  in  buds  and  part  blown ;  vio- 
lets, orange  flowers  and  jasmine, 
a  handful  of  each ;  orris  root  sliced, 
benjamin  and  storax,  two  ounces 
of  each ;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  musk,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
angelica  root  sliced,  a  quart  of  the 
red  parls  of  clove  gilliflowers,  two 
handfuls  of  lavender  flowers,  half  a 
handful  of  rosemary  flowers,  bay  and 
laurel  leaves,  half  a  handful  of  each  ; 
three  Seville  oranges,  stuck  as  full 
of  cloves  as  possible,  dried  in  a  cool 
oven  and  pounded,  and  two  handfuls 
of  balm  of  gilead  dried.  Cover  all 
quite  close,  and  when  the  pot  is  un- 
covered the  perfume  is  very  fine. 

POTATOE  BALLS.  Mix  some 
mashed  potatoes  with  the  yolk  of  an 
eggy  roll  the  mass  into  balls,  flour 
them,  or  put  on  egg  and  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  them  in  clean  drip- 
pings, or  brown  them  in  a  Dutch 
259 


POT 


POT 


oven. — Potatoe  balls  ragout  arc  made 
by  adding  to  a  pound  of  potatoes,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  ham, 
or  some  chopped  parsley,  or  sweet 
herbs ;  adding  an  onion  or  shalot, 
salt  and  pepper,  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg or  other  spice,  and  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs.  They  are  then  to  be  dress- 
ed as  potatoe  balls. 

POTATOE  BREAD.  Weigh  half 
a  pound  of  mealy  potatoes  after  they 
are  boiled  or  steamed,  and  rub  them 
while  warm  into  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  fine  flour,  dried  a  little  before  the 
fire.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  put 
in  a  spoonful  of  good  yeast,  a  little 
salt,  and  warm  milk  and  water  suf- 
ficient to  work  into  dough.  Let  it 
stand  by4he  fire  to  rise  for  an  hour 
and  a  half,  then  make  it  into  a  loaf, 
and  bake  it  in  a  tolerably  brisk  oven. 
If  baked  in  a  tin  the  crust  will  be 
more  delicate,  but  the  bread  dries 
sooner. — Another.  To  two  pounds 
of  well-boiled  mealy  potatoes,  rub- 
bed between  the  hands  till  they  are 
as  fine  as  flour,  mix  in  thoroughly 
two  large  double  handfuls  of  wheat 
flour,  three  good  spoonfuls  of  yeast, 
a  little  saJt,  and  warm  milk  enough 
to  make  it  the  usual  stifl'ness  of 
dough.  Let  it  stand  three  or  four 
hours  to  rise,  then  mould  it,  make  it 
up,  and  bake  it  like  common  bread. 

POTATOE  CHEESECAKES. 
Boil  six  ounces  of  potatoes,  and  four 
ounces  of  lemon  peel;  beat  the  lat- 
ter in  a  marble  mortar,  with  four 
ounces  of  sugar.  Then  add  the 
potatoes,  beaten,  and  four  ounces 
of  butter  melted  in  a  little  cream. 
When  well  mixed,  let  it  stand  to 
grow  cold.  Put  crust  in  pattipans, 
and  rather  more  than  half  fill  them. 
This  quantity  will  make  a  dozen 
cheesecakes,  which  are  to  be  baked 
half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven,  with 
some  fine  powdered,  sugar  sifted 
over  them 

POTATOE    FRITTERS.      Boil 

two   large   potatoes,    scrape   them 

fine ;  beat  up  four  yolks  and  three 

whites  of  eggs,   and   add   a  large 

260 


spoonful  of  cream,  another  of  sweet 
wine,  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  and  a 
little  nutmeg.  Beat  this  batter  at 
least  half  an  hour,  till  it  be  extreme- 
ly light.  Put  a  good  quantity  of 
fine  lard  into  a  stewpan,  and  drop  a 
spoonful  of  the  batter  at  a  time  into 
it,  and  fry  the  fritters.  Serve  for 
sauce  a  glass  of  white  wine,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  one  dessert  spoon- 
ful of  peach  leaf  or  almond  water, 
and  some  white  sugar.  Warm  them 
together,  but  do  not  put  the  sauce 
into  the  dish. — Another  way.  Slice 
some  potatoes  thin,  dip  them  in  a 
fine  batter,  and  fry  them.  Lemon 
peel,  and  a  spoonful  of  orange-flower 
water,  should  be  added  to  the  bat- 
ter. Serve  up  the  fritters  with  white 
sugar  sifted  over  them. 

POTATOE  PASTE.  Pound  some 
boiled  potatoes  very  fine,  and  while 
warm,  add  butter  suflicient  to  make 
the  mash  hold  together.  Or  mix  it 
with  an  egg ;  and  before  it  gets  cold, 
flour  the  board  pretty  well  to  prevent 
it  from  sticking,  and  roll  the  paste 
to  the  thickness  wanted.  If  suffer- 
ed to  get  quite  cold  before  it  be  put 
on  the  dish,  it  will  be  apt  to  crack. 

POTATOE  PASTY.  Boil,  peel,: 
and  mash  some  potatoes  as  fine  as 
possible.  Mix  in  some  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  good  piece  of  butter.  Make 
a  paste,  roll  it  out  thin  like  a  large 
puff*,  and  put  in  the  potatoe.  Fold 
over  one  half,  pinching  the  edges, 
and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven. 

POTATOE  PIE.  Skin  some 
potatoes,  cut  them  into  slices,  and 
season  them.  Add  some  mutton, 
beef,  pork,  or  veal,  and  put  in  alter- 
nate layers  of  meat  and  potatoes. 

POTATOE  PUDDING.  To 
make  a  plain  potatoe  pudding,  take 
eight  ounces  of  boiled  potatoes,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  the  yolks  and 
whites  of  two  eggs,  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  cream,  a  spoonful  of  white 
wine,  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  little  salt.  Beat  all  to  a  frotfa, 
sweeten  it  to  taste,  make  a  crust  to 
it,  or  not,  and  bake  it.  If  the  pudding 


POT 


♦ 


POT 


is  required  to  be  richer,  add  three 
ounces  more  of  butter,  another  egg", 
with  sweetmeats  and  almonds.  -  If 
the  pudding  is  to  be  baked  with  meat, 
boil  the  potatoes  and  mash  them. 
Rub  the  mass  through  a  cullender, 
and  make  it  into  a  thick  batter  with 
milk  and  two  eggs.  Lay  some  sea- 
soned steaks  in  a  dish,  then  some 
batter;  and  over  the  last  layer  of 
meat  pour  the  remainder  of  the  bat- 
ter, and  bake  it  of  a  fine  brown. — 
Another.  Mash  some  boiled  pota- 
toes with  a  little  milk,  season  it  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  cut  some  fat 
meat  into  small  pie  ';es.  Put  a  layer 
of  meat  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish, 
and  then  a  layer  of  potatoe  till  the 
dish  is  full.  Smooth  the  potatoes 
on  the  top,  shake  a  little  suet  over 
it,  and  bake  it  to  a  fine  brown. 
Mashed  potatoes  may  also  be  baked 
as  a  pudding  under  meat,  or  placed 
under  meat  while  roasting,  or  they 
may  be  mixed  with  batter  instead 
of  dour. 

POTATOE  ROLLS.  Boil  three 
pounds  of  potatoes,  bruise  and  work 
them  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  and 
as  much  milk  as  will  make  them  pass 
through  a  cullender.  Take  nearly 
three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  yeast, 
and  half  a  pint  of  warm  water ;  mix 
them  with  the  potatoes,  pour  the 
whole  upon  five  pounds  of  flour, 
and  add  some  salt.  Knead  it  well : 
if  not  of  a  proper  consistence,  add 
a  little  more  warm  milk  and  water. 
Let  it  stand  before  the  fire  an  hour 
to  rise  ;  work  it  well,  and  make  it 
into  rolls.  Bake  them  about  half 
an  hour,  in  an  oven  not  quite  so  hot 
as  for  bread.  The  rolls  will  eat 
well,  toasted  and  buttered. 

POTATOE  SNOW.  The  whitest 
sort  of  potatoes  must  be  selected, 
and  free  from  spots.  Set  them  over 
the  fire  in  cold  water ;  when  they 
begin  to  crack,  strain  off  the  water, 
and  put  them  into  a  clean  stewpan 
by  the  side  of  the  fire  till  they  are 
quite  dry,  and  fall  to  pieces.  Rub 
them  through  a  wire  sieve  on  the 


dish  they  are  to  be  sent  up  in,  and 
do  not  disturb  them  afterwards. 

POTATOE  SOUP.  Cut  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  gravy  beef  into  thin 
slices,  chop  a  pound  of  potatoes, 
and  an  onion  or  two,  and  put  them 
into  a  kettle  with  three  quarts  of  wa- 
ter, half  a  pint  of  blue  peas,  and  two 
ounces  of  rice.  Stew  these  till  the 
gravy  is  quite  drawn  from  the  meat, 
strain  it  off",  take  out  the  beef,  and 
pulp  the  other  ingredients  through 
a  coarse  sieve.  Add  the  pulp  to 
the  soup,  cut  in  two  or  three  roots 
of  celery,  simmer  in  a  clean  sauce- 
pan till  this  is  tender,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  it  up  with 
fried  bread  cut  into  it. 

POTATOE  STARCH.  Raw  po- 
tatoes, in  whatever  condition,  con- 
stantly affbrd  starch,  diff*ering  only 
in  quality.  The  round  grey  or  red 
produce  the  most,  affording  about 
two  ounces  of  starch  to  a  pound  of 
pulp.  The  process  is  perfectly 
easy.  Peel  and  wash  a  pound  of 
full  grown  potatoes,  grate  them  on 
a  bread  grater  into  a  deep  dish,  con- 
taining a  quart  of  clear  water.  Stir 
it  well  up,  then  pour  it  through  a 
hair  sieve,  and  leave  it  ten  minutes 
to  settle,  till  the  water  is  quite  clear. 
Then  pour  off  the  water,  and  put  a 
quart  of  fresh  water  to  it ;  stir  it 
up,  let  it  settle,  and  repeat  this  till 
the  water  is  quite  clear.  A  fine 
white  powder  will  at  last  be  found 
at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel.  The 
criterion  of  this  process  being  com- 
pleted, is  the  purity  of  the  water 
that  comes  from  it  after  stirring  it 
up.  Lay  the  powder  on  a  sheet  of 
paper  in  a  hair  sieve  to  dry,  either 
in  the  sun  or  before  the  fire,  and  it 
is  ready  for  use.  Put  into  a  wdl 
stopped  bottle,  it  will  keep  good  for 
many  months.  If  this  be  well  made, 
a  table-spoonful  of  it  mixed  with 
twice  the  quantity  of  cold  water,  and  ^ 
stirred  into  a  soup  or  sauce,  just  .. 
before  it  is  taken  up,  will  thicken  a  '  J(| 
pint  of  it  to  the  consistence  of  cream,  fi 
This  preparation  much  resembles 
2G1 


POT 


POT 


the  Indian  Arrow  Root,  and  is  a  good 
substitute  for  it.  It  gives  a  fulness 
on  the  palate  to  gravies  and  sauces 
at  hardly  any  expense,  and  is  often 
used  to  thicken  melted  butter  instead 
of  flour.  Being  perfectly  tasteless, 
it  will  not  alter  the  flavour  of  the 
most  delicate  broth  or  gruel. 

POTATOES.  The  following  is 
allowed  to  be  a  superior  method  of 
raising  potatoes,  and  of  obtaining  a 
larger  and  finer  growth .  Dig  the  earth 
twelve  inches  deep,  if  the  soil  will  ad- 
mit, and  afterwards  open  a  hole  about 
six  inches  deep,  and  twelve  wide. 
Fill  it  with  horse  dung,  or  long  litter, 
about  three  inches  thick,  and  plant 
a  whole  potato©  upon  it ;  shake  a 
little  more  dung  over  it,  and  mould 
up  the  earth.  In  this  way  the  whole 
plot  of  ground  should  be  planted, 
placing  tiie  potatoes  at  least  sixteen 
inches  apart.  When  the  young 
shoots  make  their  appearance,  they 
should  have  fresh  mould  drawn  round 
them  with  a  hoe  ;  and  if  the  tender 
shoots  are  covered,  it  will  prevent  the 
frost  from  injuring  them.  They 
should  again  be  earthed,  when  the 
roots  make  a  second  appearance,  but 
not  covered,  as  in  all  probability  the 
season  will  be  less  severe.  A  plen- 
tiful supply  of  mould  should  be  given 
them,  and  the  person  who  performs 
this  business  should  never  tread  upon 
the  plant,  or  the  hillock  that  is  raised 
round  it,  as  the  lighter  the  earth  is 
the  more  room  the  potatoe  will  have 
to  expand.  In  Holland,  the  potatoes 
are  strangely  cultivated,  though  there 
are  persons  who  give  the  preference 
to  Dutch  potatoes,  supposing  them 
to  be  of  a  finer  grain  than  others. 
They  are  generally  planted  in  the 
fields,  in  rows,  nearly  as  thick  as 
beans  or  peas,  and  are  sufi*ered  to 
grow  up  wild  and  uncultivated,  the 
object  being  to  raise  potatoes  as 
small  as  possible,  while  the  large 
ones,  if  such  there  happen  to  be,  are 
thrown  out  and  given  to  the  pigs. 
The  mode  of  cultivation  in  Ireland, 
where  potatoes  are  found  in  the  great- 
262 


est  perfection,  is  far  different,  and 
probably  the  best  of  all.  The  round 
rough  red  are  generally  preferred, 
and  are  esteemed  the  most  genuine. 
These  are  planted  in  rows,  and  only 
just  put  in  beneath  the  soil.  These 
rows  are  divided  into  beds  about  six 
feet  wide,  a  path  or  trench  is  left 
between  the  beds,  and  as  the  plants 
vegetate  the  earth  is  dug  out  of  the 
trench,  and  thrown  lightly  over  the 
potatoes.  This  practice  is  continued 
all  the  summer,  the  plants  are  thus 
nourished  by  the  repeated  accession 
of  fresh  soil,  and  the  trench  as  it 
deepens  serves  the  purpose  of  keep- 
ing the  beds  dry,  and  of  carrying  off" 
the  superfluous  water.  The  potatoes 
are  always  rich  and  mealy,  contain- 
ing an  unusual  quantity  of  wholesome 
flour. 

POTATOES  BOILED.  The  ve- 
getable kingdom  scarcely  affbrds  any 
food  more  wholesome,  more  easily 
procured,  easily  prepared,  or  less 
expensive  than  the  potatoe ;  yet  al- 
though this  most  useful  vegetable  is 
dressed  almost  every  day,  in  almost 
every  family, — for  one  plate  of  pota- 
toes that  comes  to  table  as  it  should, 
ten  are  spoiled.  There  is  however  a 
great  diversity  in  the  colour,  size, 
shape,  and  quality  of  the  potatoe, 
and  some  are  of  a  very  inferior  de- 
scription. The  yellow  are  better  than 
the  white,  but  the  rough  red  are  the 
most  mealy  and  nutritive.  Choose 
those  of  a  moderate  size,  free  from 
blemishes,  and  fresh.  It  is  best  to 
buy  them  in  the  mould,  as  they  come 
from  the  bed,  and  they  should  not 
be  wetted  till  they  are  cleaned  for 
cooking.  Protect  them  from  the  air 
and  frost,  by  laying  in  heaps  in  a 
dry  place,  covering  them  with  mats, 
or  burying  them  in  dry  sand.  If 
the  frost  aff*ects  them,  the  life  of  the 
vegetable  is  destroyed,  and  the  pota- 
toe speedily  rots.  When  they  are  to 
be  dressed,  wash  them,  but  do  not 
pare  or  cut  them,  unless  they  are  very 
large.  Fill  a  saucepan  half  full  of 
potatoes  of  an  equal  size,  and  add  as 


P.OT 


vojt 


much  cold  water  as  will  cover  them 
about  an  inch.  Most  boiled  things 
are  spoiled  by  having  too  little  water, 
but  potatoes  are  often  spoiled  by  too 
much  :  they  should  merely  be  cover- 
ed, and  a  little  allowed  for  waste  in 
boiling.  Set  them  on  a  moderate  fire 
till  they  boil,  then  take  them  off,  and 
place  them  on  the  side  of  the  fire 
to  simmer  slowly,  till  they  are  soft 
enough  to  admit  a  fork.  The  usual 
test  of  their  skin  cracking  is  not  to 
be  depended  on,  for  if  they  are  boiled 
fast  this  will  happen  when  the  pota- 
toes are  not  half  done,  and  the  inside 
is  quite  hard.  Pour  off  the  water 
the  minute  the  potatoes  are  done,  or 
they  will  become  watery  and  sad; 
uncover  the  saucepan,  and  set  it  at 
such  a  distance  from  the  fire  as  will 
prevent  its  burning  ;  the  surperfluous 
moisture  will  then  evaporate,  and  the 
potatoes  become  perfectly  dry  and 
mealy.  This  method  is  in  every 
respect  equal  to  steaming,  and  the 
potatoes  are  dressed  in  half  the 
time. 

POTATOES  BROILED.  Par- 
boil, then  slice  and  broil  them.  Or 
parboil,  and  set  them  whole  on  the 
gridiron  over  a  very  slow  fire.  When 
thoroughly  done,  send  them  up  with 
their  skins  on.  This  method  is  prac- 
tised in  many  Irish  families. 

POTATOES  IN  CREAM.  Half 
boil  some  potatoes,  drain  and  peel 
them  nicely,  and  cut  into  neat  pieces. 
Put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  some 
cream,  fresh  butter,  and  salt,  of  each 
a  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  po- 
tatoes ;  or  instead  of  cream,  put  some 
good  gravy,  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Stew  them  very  gently,  and  be  care- 
ful to  prevent  their  breaking. 

POTATOES  FRIED.  If  they 
are  whole  potatoes,  first  boil  them 
nearly  enough,  and  then  put  them 
into  a  stewpan  with  a  bit  of  butter, 
or  some  nice  clean  beef  drippings. 
To  prevent  their  burning,  shake  them 
about  till  they  are  brown  and  crisp, 
and  then  drain  them  from  the  fat.  It 
would  be  an  elegant  improvement,  to 


flour  and  dip  them  in  the  yolk  of  an 
egg  previous  to  frying,  and  then  roll 
them  in  fine  sifted  bread  crumbs : 
they  would  then  deserve  to  be  called 
potatoes  full  dressed. — If  to  be  fried 
in  slices  or  shavings,  peel  some  large 
potatoes,  slice  them  about  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick,  or  cut  them  in  shavings 
round  and  round,  as  in  peeling  a 
lemon.  Dry  them  well  in  a  clean 
cloth,  and  fry  them  in  lard  or  drip- 
ping. Take  care  that  the  fat  and  the 
fryingpan  are  both  perfectly  clean. 
Put  the  pan  on  a  quick  fire ;  as  soon 
as  the  lard  boils,  and  is  still,  put  in 
the  potatoe  slices,  and  keep  moving 
them  till  they  are  crisp.  Take  them 
up  and  lay  them  to  drain  on  a  sieve, 
and  then  send  them  to  table  with  a 
very  little  salt  sprinkled  over. — To 
fry  cold  potatoes,  put  a  bit  of  clean 
dripping  into  a  fryingpan.  When 
melted,  slice  in  the  potatoes  with  a 
little  pepper  and  salt ;  set  them  on 
the  fire,  and  keep  them  stirring. 
When  quite  hot,  they  are  ready. 
This  is  a  good  way  of  re-dressing  po- 
tatoes, and  making  them  palatable. 

POTATOES  MASHED.  When 
the  potatoes  are  thoroughly  boiled, 
drain  and  dry  them  well,  and  pick 
out  every  speck.  Rub  them  through 
a  cullender  into  a  clean  stewpan :  to  a 
pound  of  potatoes  allow  half  an  ounce 
of  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of  milk. 
Mix  it  up  well,  but  do  not  make  it 
too  moist.  After  Lady  day,  when 
potatoes  are  getting  old  and  speck- 
ed, and  also  in  frosty  weather,  this 
is  the  best  way  of  dressing  them. 
If  potatoes  are  to  be  mashed  with 
onions,  boil  the  onions,  and  pass 
them  through  a  sieve.  Mix  them  with 
the  potatoes,  in  such  a  pi^portion  as 
is  most  approved. 

POTATOES  PRESERVED.  To 
keep  potatoes  from  the  frost,  lay 
them  up  in  a  dry  store  room,  and 
cover  them  with  straw,  or  a  linen 
cloth.  If  this  be  not  convenient,  dig 
a  trench  three  or  four  feet  deep,  and 
put  them  in  as  they  are  taken  up. 
Cover  them  with  the  earth  taken  out 
263 


POT 


V  or 


of  the  tcench,  raise  it  up  in  the  mid- 
dle like  the  roof  of  a  house,  and  co- 
ver it  with  straw  so  as  to  carry  oft' 
the  rain.  Better  still  if  laid  above 
ground,  and  covered  with  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  mould  to  protect  them 
from  the  jfrost,  as  in  this  case  they 
are  less  likely  to  be  injured  by  the 
wet.  Potatoes  may  also  be  pre- 
served by  suff'ering  them  to  remain 
in  the  ground,  and  digging  them  up 
in  the  spring  of  the  year,  as  they 
are  wanted. 

POTATOES  ROASTED.  Choose 
them  nearly  of  a  size,  wash  and  dry 
the  potatoes,  and  put  them  in  a 
Dutch  oven,  or  cheese  toaster.  Take 
care  not  to  place  them  too  near  the 
fire,  or  they  will  burn  on  the  outside 
before  they  are  warmed  through. 
Large  potatoes  will  require  two 
hours  to  roast  them  properly,  unless 
they  are  previously  half  boiled. 
When  potatoes  are  to  be  roasted 
under  meat,  they  should  first  be 
half  boiled,  drained  from  the  water, 
and  placed  in  the  pan  under  the 
meat.  Baste  them  with  some  of  the 
dripping,  and  when  they  are  brown- 
ed on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  them 
on  the  other.  Send  them  up  round 
the  meat,  or  in  a  small  dish. 

POTATOES  SCALLOPED.  Hav- 
ing boiled  and  mashed  the  potatoes, 
butter  some  clean  scallop  shells,  or 
pattipans,  and  put  in  the  potatoes. 
Smooth  them  on  the  top,  cross  a 
knife  over  them,  strew  on  a  few  fine 
bread  crumbs,  sprinkle  them  a  little 
with  melted  butter  from  a  paste 
brush,  and  then  set  them  in  a  Dutch 
oven.  When  they  are  browned  on 
the  top,  take  them  carefully  out  of 
the  shells,  and  brown  the  other 
side. 

POTATOES  STEAMED.  The 
potatoes  must  be  well  washed,  but 
not  pared,  and  put  iiito  the  steamer 
when  the  wa^er  bdls.  Moderate 
sized  potatoes  will  require  three 
quarters  of  an  hour  to  do  them  pro- 
perly. They  should  be  taken  up  as 
soon  as  they  are  done  enough,  or 
2G4 


they  will  become  watery  :  peel  them 
afterwards. 

POTTED  BEEF.  Take  two 
pounds  of  lean  beef,  rub  it  with  salt- 
petre, and  let  it  lie  one  night.  Then 
lay  on  common  salt,  and  cover  it 
with  water  four  days  in  a  small  pan. 
Dry  it  with  a  cloth,  season  it  with 
black  pepper,  lay  it  into  as  small  a 
pan  as  will  hold  it,  cover  it  with 
coarse  paste,  but  put  in  no  liquor, 
and  bake  it  five  hours  in  a  very  cool 
oven.  When  cold,  pick  out  the 
strings  and  fat.  Beat  the  meat  very 
fine,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fine  butter  just  warm,  but  not  oiled, 
and  as  much  of  the  gravy  as  will 
make  it  into  a  paste.  Put  it  into 
very  small  pots,  and  cover  them  with 
clarified  butter. — Another  way. 
Take  beef  that  has  been  dressed, 
either  boiled  or  roasted  ;  beat  it  in 
a  mortar  with  some  pepper  and  salt, 
a  few  cloves,  grated  nutmeg,  and  a 
little  fine  butter  just  warm.  This 
eats  as  well  as  the  former,  but  the 
colour  is  not  so  fine.  It  is  however 
a  good  way  for  using  the  remains  of 
a  large  joint. 

POTTED  BIRDS.  Having  clean- 
ed them  nicely,  rub  every  part  well 
with  a  seasoning  of  white  pepper 
and  salt,  mace  and  allspice  in  fine 
powder.  Put  them  in  a  pan,  lay  on 
some  butter,  cover  it  with  a  paste 
of  coarse  flour,  and  a  paper  tied 
closely  over.  When  baked  and 
grown  cold,  cut  them  into  pieces 
proper  for  helping,  pack  them  close 
into  a  large  potting-pan,  and  leave 
as  little  space  as  possible  to  receive 
the  butter.  Cover  tkem  with  butter, 
and  one  third  less  will  be  wanted 
than  when  the  birds  are  done  whole. 

POTTED  CHEESE.  Cut  and 
pound  four  ounces  of  Cheshire 
cheese,  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  fine 
butter,  a  tea-spoonful  of  white  pow- 
dered sugar,  a  little  bit  of  mace, 
and  a  glass  of  white  wine.  Press  it 
down  in  a  deep  pot. 
'  POTTED  DAMSONS.  Weigh 
the  damsons,  and   wipe  them  dry 


POT 


POT 


one  by  one,  allowing  one  pound  of 
fine  sugar  to  three  jDOunds  of  fruit. 
Spread  a  little  of  the  sugar  at  the 
bottom  of  the  jar,  then  a  layer  of 
fruit,  and  so  on  till  the  jar  is  full. 
Then  add  three  or  four  spoonfuls  ot 
water,  tie  it  down  close,  and  put  it 
several  times  into  a  cool  oven. 

POTTED  DRIPPING.  Boil  six 
pounds  of  good  beef  dripping  in  soft 
water,  strain  it  into  a  pan,  and  let 
it  stand  to  cool.  Take  off  the  hard 
fat,  scrape  off  the  gravy,  and  repeat 
it  several  times.  When  the  fat  is 
cold  and  hard,  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  six  bay  leaves,  six  cloves, 
half  a  pound  of  salt,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  whole  pepper.  Let 
the  fat  be  entirely  melted  ;  and 
when  it  has  cooled  a  little,  strain  it 
through  a  sieve  into  the  pot,  and  tie 
it  down.  Turn  the  pot  upside  down, 
that  no  rats  or  mice  may  get  at  it, 
and  it  will  keep  a  long  time,  and 
make  good  puff  paste,  or  crust  for 
puddings. 

POTTED  HARE.  An  old  hare 
will  do  well  for  this  purpose,  like- 
wise for  soup  and  pie.  After  sea- 
soning it,  bake  it  with  butter.  When 
cold,  take  the  meat  from  the  bones, 
and  beat  it  in  a  mortar.  If  not  high 
enough,  add  salt,  mace,  pepper,  and 
a  piece  of  fresh  butter  melted  in  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  gravy  that  came 
from  the  hare.  When  well  mixed, 
put  it  into  small  pots,  and  cover  it 
with  butter.  The  legs  and  back 
should  be  baked  at  the  bottom  of 
the  jar,  to  keep  them  moist,  and 
the  bones  be  put  over  them. 

POTTED  HERRINGS.  Scale, 
clean,  and  season  them  well.  Bake 
them  in  a  pan  with  spice,  bay  leaves, 
and  some  butter.  When  cold,  lay 
them  in  a  potting  pot,  and  cover 
them  over  with  butter.  They  are 
very  fine  for  a  supper  dish. 

POTTED  LOBSTERS.  Half 
boil  them,  pick  out  the  meat,  cut  it 
into  small  pieces,  season  with  mace, 
white  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  salt. 
Press  it  close  into  a  pot,  and  cover 
(No.  12.) 


it  with  butter  ;  bake  it  half  an  hour, 
and  then  put  in  the  spawn.  When 
cold  take  out  the  lobster,  and  put 
it  into  pots  with  a  little  of  the  but- 
ter. Beat  the  rest  of  the  butter  in 
a  mortar,  with  some  of  the  spawn, 
mix  the  coloured  butter  with  as 
much  as  will  be  sufficient  to  cover 
the  pots,  and  strain  it.  Cayenne 
may  be  added,  if  approved. — Ano- 
ther way.  Take  out  the  meat  as 
whole  as  possible,  split  the  tail,  and 
remove  the  gut ;  and  if  the  inside 
be  not  watery,  it  may  be  added. 
Season  with  mace,  nutmeg,  white 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  clove  or  two,  in 
the  finest  powder.  Lay  a  little  fine 
butter  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and 
the  lobster  smooth  over  it,  with  bay 
leaves  between  ;  cover  it  with  but- 
ter, and  bake  it  gently.  When  done, 
pour  the  whole  on  the  bottom  of  a 
sieve ;  and  with  a  fork  lay  the  pieces 
into  potting  pots,  some  of  each  sort, 
with  the  seasoning  about  it.  W  hen 
cold,  pour  clarified  butter  over,  but 
not  hot.  It  will  be  good  the  next 
day ;  but  if  highly  seasoned,  and 
well  covered  with  butter,  it  will  keep 
some  time.  Potted  lobster  may  be 
used  cold,  or  as  a  fricassee,  with  a 
cream  sauce.  It  then  looks  very 
nicely,  and  eats  well,  especially  if 
there  is  spawn.  Mackarel,  herrings, 
and  trout,  are  good  potted  in  the 
same  way. 

POTTED  MACKEREL.  Clean, 
season,  and  bake  them  in  a  pan  with 
spice,  bay  leaves,  and  some  butter. 
When  cold,  lay  them  in  a  pot  for 
potting,  and  cover  them  over  with 
butter. 

POTTED  MOOR  GAME.  Pick, 
singe,  and  wash  the  birds  nicely. 
Dry  and  season  them  pretty  high, 
inside  and  out,  with  pepper,  mace, 
nutmeg,  allspice,  and  salt.  Pack 
them  in  as  small  a  pot  as  will  hold 
them,  cover  them  with  butter,  and 
bake  in  a  very  slow  oven.  When 
cold,  take  off  the  butter,  dry  them 
from  the  gravy,  and  put  one  bird  into 
each  pot,  which  should  just  fit.  Add 

M  m  265 


p  o  r 


V  o  fr 


as  much  more  butter  as  will  cover 
them,  but  take  care  that  it  be  not 
oiled.  The  best  way  to  melt  it  is, 
by  warming  it  in  a  bason  placed  in 
a  bowl  of  hot  water. 

POTTED  PARTRIDGE.  Clean 
them  nicely,  and  season  with  mace, 
allspice,  white  pepper,  and  salt,  all 
in  fine  powder.  Rub  every  part 
well,  then  lay  the  breast  downwards 
in  a  pan,  and  pack  the  birds  as  close 
as  possible.  Put  a  good  deal  of 
butter  on  them,  cover  the  pan  with 
a  paste  of  coarse  flour  and  a  paper 
over,  tie  it  close  and  bake  it.  When 
cold,  put  the  birds  into  pots,  and 
cover  them  with  butter.  The  but- 
ter that  has  covered  potted  things 
will  serve  for  basting,  or  for  paste 
for  meat  pies. 

POTTED  PIGEONS.  Let  them 
be  quite  fresh,  clean  them  carefully, 
and  season  them  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Lay  them  close  in  a  small  deep 
pan  ;  for  the  smaller  the  surface, 
and  the  closer  they  are  packed,  the 
less  butter  will  be  wanted.  Cover 
them  with  butter,  then  with  very 
thick  paper  tied  down,  and  bake 
them.  When  cold,  put  them  dry 
into  pots  that  will  hold  two  or  three 
in  each,  and  pour  butter  over  them, 
using  that  which  was  baked  in  part. 
If  they  are  to  be  kept,  the  butter 
should  belaid  pretty  thick  over  them. 
If  pigeons  were  boned,  and  then  put 
in  an  oval  form  into  the  pot,  they 
would  lie  closer,  and  require  less 
butter.  They  may  be  stuffed  with 
a  fine  forcemeat  made  with  veal, 
bacon,  and  the  other  ingredients, 
and  then  th^y  will  eat  very  fine.  If 
a  high  flavour  is  preferred,  add 
mace,  allspice,  and  a  little  cayenne, 
before  baking. 

POTTED  RABBITS.  Cut  up  two 
or  three  young  but  full-grown  rab- 
bits, and  take  off  the  leg  bones  at 
the  thigh.  Pack  them  as  closely  as 
possible  in  a  small  pan,  after  sea- 
soning them  with  pepper,  salt,  mace, 
allspice,  and  cayenne,  all  in  very 
fine  powder.  Make  the  top  as 
206 


smooth  as  possible.  Keep  out  the 
heads  and  the  carcase  bones,  but 
take  off  the  meat  about  the  neck. 
Put  in  a  good  deal  of  butter,  and 
bake  the  whole  gently.  Keep  it  two 
days  in  the  pan,  than  shift  it  into 
small  pots,  with  some  additional 
butter.  When  a  rabbit  is  to  be 
blanched,  set  it  on  the  fire  with  a 
small  quantity  of  cold  water,  and  let 
it  boil.  It  is  then  to  be  taken  out 
immediately,  and  put  into  cold  wa- 
ter for  a  few  minutes. 

POTTED  SALMON.  Scale  and 
wipe  a  large  piece  of  salmon,  but 
do  not  wash  it.  Salt  it,  and  let  it 
lie  till  the  salt  is  melted  and  drained 
from  it;  then  season  it  with  pounded 
mace,  cloves,  and  whole  pepper. 
Lay  in  a  few  bay  leaves,  put  it  close 
into  a  pan,  cover  it  over  with  butter, 
and  bake  it.  When  well  done,  drain 
it  from  the  gravy,  put  it  into  pots  to 
keep,  and  when  cold  cover  it  with 
clarified  butter.  Any  kind  of  firm 
fish  may  be  potted  in  the  same 
manner. 

POTTED  SHRIMPS.  When 
boiled,  take  them  out  of  the  skins, 
and  season  them  with  salt,  white 
pepper,  and  a  very  little  mace  and 
cloves.  Press  them  into  a  pot,  set 
it  in  the  oven  ten  minutes,  and  when 
cold  lay  on  butter. 

POTTED  TROUT.  Scale  and 
draw  out  the  entrails  of  the  fish 
without  opening  the  belly,  give  them 
a  wash,  and  let  them  drain  from  the 
water.  Season  the  fish  well  with  salt, 
pepper,  cloves,  mace,  and  ginger. 
Lay  them  into  a  broad  pan  in  two 
layers,  cover  them  with  butter,  and 
then  with  paper.  Lay  some  sticks 
across  the  pan  to  keep  the  paper  up. 
Bake  them  moderately,  then  take 
them  out  and  drain  them.  Put  them 
into  pots  in  two  layers,  and  fill  up 
the  pots  with  clarified  butter,  as 
cool  as  it  can  be  to  run  properly. 
Any  other  fish  may  be  potted  in  the 
same  way. 

POTTED  VEAL.  Cold  fillet 
makes  the  finest  potted  veal,  or  it 


PO  u 


I'OU 


inay  be  done  as  follows.  Season  a 
large  slice  of  the  fillet  before  it  is 
dressed,  with  some  mace,  pejiper- 
corns,  and  two  or  three  cloves.  Lay 
it  close  into  a  potting  pan  that  will 
but  just  hold  it,  kill  the  pan  up  with 
water,  and  bake  it  three  hours. 
Then  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  and  fla- 
vour it  with  salt.  In  pounding,  put 
to  it  a  little  of  the  baked  gravy,  if 
the  meat  is  to  be  eaten  soon  ;  other- 
wise only  a  little  butter  just  melted. 
When  done,  cover  it  over  with  but- 
ter. To  pot  veal  or  chicken  with 
ham,  pound  some  cold  veal  or  the 
white  of  a  chicken,  seasoned  as 
above,  and  place  layers  of  it  with 
layers  of  ham  pounded,  or  rather 
shred.  Press  d  wh  each,  and  cover 
the  whole  with  clarified  butter. 

POTTED  VENISON.  If  the  ve- 
nison be  stale,  rub  it  with  vinegar, 
dry  it  with  a  cloth,  and  rub  it  well 
with  red  wine.  Season  it  with  pep- 
per, salt,  and  mace,  and  put  it  into 
a  jar.  Pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of 
red  wine,  lay  in  a  pound  of  butter, 
and  bake  it  tender.  When  it  is  done, 
clean  it  from  the  bones  and  skin, 
and  beat  it  in  a  marble  mortar  with 
the  fat  and  gravy.  Press  it  hard 
into  the  pots,  and  pour  clarified 
butter  over  it. 

POULTICES.  Common  poultice 
is  best  made  of  white  bread,  put  in- 
to boiling  water  till  it  is  of  a  proper 
thickness.  Then  let  it  boil,  and  add 
a  bit  of  lard,  or  a  little  sweet  oil. 
Water  answers  the  purpose  better 
than  milk,  as  the  poultice  thus  made 
will  retain  the  moisture  longer. — 
A  poultice  to  ripen  tumours  or 
swellings,  should  consist  of  two 
ounces  of  white  lily  roots,  half  a 
pound  of  figs,  and  two  ounces  of 
meal  or  bean  flour.  These  are  to 
boiled  in  water  till  it  comes  to  a 
proper  consistence  ;  the  poultice  is 
then  spread  on  a  thick  cloth,  applied 
warm,  and  shifted  as  often  as  it 
grows  dry. — Carrot  poultice  is  made 
of  clean  grated  carrots  mixed  with 
water,  so  as  to  form  a  soft  pulp. 


This  is  an  excellent  poultice  to  ease 
pain  arising  from  a  sore  ;  it  not  only 
cleanses  it,  but  takes  oft*  the  oft'en- 
sive  smell  which  generally  attends 
such  complaints.  It  also  afl'ords 
great  relief  in  cancers,  and  should 
be  changed  twice  a  day. 

POULTRY.  Previously  to  their 
being  dressed,  every  description  of 
game  and  poultry  requires  to  be 
carefully  picked,  and  neatly  trussed ; 
every  plug  should  be  removed,  and 
the  hair  nicely  singed  with  white 
paper.  In  drawing  poultry,  care 
must  be  t.aken  not  to  break  the  gall 
bag,  for  no  washing  will  take  off  the 
bitter  where  it  has  touched.  In 
dressing  wild  fowl,  a  brisk  clear 
fire  must  be  kept  up,  that  they  may 
be  done  of  a  fine  yellow  brown,  but 
so  as  to  leave  the  gravy  in  :  the  fine 
flavour  is  lost  if  done  too  much. 
Tame  fowls  require  more  roasting, 
and  are  longer  in  heating  through 
than  others.  All  sorts  should  be 
continually  basted,  that  they  may 
be  served  up  with  a  froth,  and  ap- 
pear of  a  fine  colour.  A  large  fowl 
will  take  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
a  middling  one  half  an  hour,  and  a 
small  one,  or  a  chicken,  twenty  mi- 
nutes. The  fire  must  be  very  quick 
and  clear,  before  any  fowls  are  put 
down.  A  capon  will  take  from  half 
an  hour  to  thirty-five  minutes,  a 
goose  an  hour,  wild  ducks  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour,  pheasants  twenty 
minutes,  a  small  stufted  turkey  an 
hour  and  a  quarter,  turkey  poults 
twenty  minutes,  grouse  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  quails  ten  minutes,  and  par- 
tridges about  twenty-five  minutes.  A 
hare  will  take  nearly  an  hour,  and  the 
hind  part  requires  most  heat.  Pigs 
and  geese  require  a  brisk  fire,  and 
quick  turning.  Hares  and  rabbits 
must  be  well  attended  to,  and  the 
extremities  brought  to  the  quick 
part  of  the  fire,  to  be  done  equally 
with  the  backs. 

POULTRY  YARD.    In  the  rear- 
ing of  poultry,  care  should  Ije  taken 
to  choose  a  fine  large  breed,  or  the 
"261 


POU 


PO  u 


ends  of  good  management  may  be 
defeated.  The  Dartford  sort  is 
generally  approved,  but  it  is  difficult 
to  say  which  is  to  be  preferred,  if 
they  be  but  healthy  and  vigorous. 
The  black  sort  are  very  juicy,  but 
as  their  legs  are  so  much  discolour- 
ed, they  are  not  well  adapted  for 
boiling.  Those  hens  are  usually 
preferred  for  setting,  which  have 
tufts  of  feathers  on  their  head ; 
those  that  crow  are  not  considered 
so  profitable.  Some  fine  young 
fowls  should  be  reared  every  year, 
to  keep  up  a  stock  of'good  breeders, 
and  bad  layers  and  careless  nurses 
should  be  excluded.  The  best  age 
for  a  setting  hen  is  from  two  to  five 
years,  and  it  is  necessary  to  remark 
which  among  them  are  the  best 
breeders.  Hens  set  twenty  days, 
and  convenient  places  should  be 
provided  for  their  laying,  which 
will  also  serve  for  setting  and  hatch- 
ing. A  hen  house  should  be  large 
and  high,  should  be  frequently 
cleaned  out,  and  well  secured  from 
the  approach  of  vermin,  or  the  eggs 
will  be  sucked,  and  the  fowls  de- 
stroyed. Hens  must  not  be  dis- 
turbed while  sitting,  for  if  frighten- 
ed, they  are  apt  to  forsake  their 
nests.  Wormwood  and  rue  should 
be  planted  about  their  houses ;  some 
of  the  former  should  occasionally 
be  boiled,  and  sprinkled  about  the 
floor,  which  should  not  be  paved, 
but  formed  of  smooth  earth.  The 
windows  of  the  house  should  be 
open  to  the  rising  sun,  and  a  hole 
left  at  the  door  to  let  in  the  smaller 
fowls  ;  the  larger  may  be  let  in  and 
out  by  opening  the  door.  There 
should  be  a  small  sliding  board  to 
shut  down  when  the  fowls  are  gone 
to  roost,  to  prevent  the  ravages  of 
vermin,  and  a  strong  door  and  lock 
should  be  added,  to  secure  the 
poultry  from  thieves  and  robbers. 
Let  the  hens  lay  some  time  before 
they  are  allowed  to  set,  the  proper 
time  for  which  will  be  from  the  end 
ftf  February  to  the  beginning  of 
268 


May.  Broods  of  chickens  are  hatch- 
ed all  through  the  summer,  but  those 
that  come  out  very  late  require  care 
till  they  have  gained  sufficient 
strength.  Feed  the  hens  well  dur- 
ing the  time  of  laying,  and  give 
them  oats  occasionally.  If  the  eggs- 
of  any  other  sort  are  put  under  » 
hen  with  some  of  her  own,  observe 
to  add  her  own  as  many  days  after 
the  others  as  there  is  a  dift'erence  m 
the  length  of  their  setting.  A  tur^ 
key  and  duck  set  thirty  days,  the 
hen  only  twenty.  Choose  large 
clear  eggs  to  put  her  upon,  and  such 
a  number  as  she  can  properly  co- 
ver ;  about  ten  or  twelve  are  quite 
sufficient.  If  the  eggs  be  very  large^ 
they  sometimes  contain  a  double 
yolk,  and  in  that  case  neither  will 
be  productive.  When  some  of  the  _ 
chickens  are  hatched,  long  before 
the  others,  it  may  be  necessary  to 
keep  them  in  a  basket  of  wool  till 
the  others  come  forth.  The  day 
after  they  are  hatched,  give  them^ 
some  crumbs  of  white  bread  or  grots- 
soaked  in  milk,  which  are  very  nou-" 
rishing.  As  soon  as  they  have  gain- 
ed a  little  strength,  feed  them  with 
curd,  cheese  parings  cut  small,  or 
any  soft  food,  but  nothing  that  is.  ^ 
sour,  and  provide  them  with  clean 
water  twice  a  day.  Keep  the  hen 
under  a  pen  till  the  young  have 
strength  to  follow  her  about,  which 
will  be  in  two  or  three  weeks  ;  and 
be  sure  to  feed  the  hen  well.  Poul- 
try in  general  should  be  fed  as  near- 
ly as  possible  at  the  same  hour  of 
the  day,  and  in  the  same  place,  as 
this  will  be  the  surest  way  of  collect- 
ing them  together.  Potatoes  boiled 
in  a  little  water,  so  as  to  be  dry  and 
mealy,  and  then  cut,  and  wette<J 
with  skim  milk  that  is  not  sour, 
will  form  an  agreeable  food  for 
poultry,  and  young  turkies  will- 
thrive  much  on  it.  Grain  should! 
however  be  given  occasionally,  or 
the  constant  use  of  potatoe  food^ 
will  make  their  flesh  soft  and  in- 
sipid.    The  food  of  fowls  goes  first 


PO  u 


F  O  U 


into  the  crop,  which  softens  it ;  it 
then  passes  into  the  gizzard,  which 
by  constant  friction  macerates  it ; 
this   is  facilitated  by  small  stones 
which   are  generally    found    there, 
and  which  help  to  digest  the  food. 
If  a  setting  hen   be  troubled   with 
vermin,  let  her  be  well  washed  with 
a  decoction  of  white  lupins.     The 
pip  in  fowls  is  occasioned  by  drink- 
ing dirty   water,    or    taking   filthy 
food.     The  general  symptom   is  a 
white  thin  scale  oh  the  tongue,  which 
should  be  pulled  off  with  the  finge/; 
afterwards  rub  the  tongue  with   a 
little  salt,  a!jd  the  disorder  will  be 
removed. — Geese  require  a  some- 
what different  management.     They 
generally  breed  once  in  a  year  ;  but 
if  well   kept,   they    will  frequently 
hatch    twice     within    that    period. 
Three  of  these  birds  are  usually  al- 
lotted  to  a  gander;  if  there  were 
more,  the  eggs  would   be  rendered 
abortive.     The  quantity  of  eggs  to 
be   placed  under  each  goose  while 
setting,  is  about  a  dozen  or  thirteen. 
While  brooding,  they  should  be  well 
fed  with  corn  and  water,  which  must 
be  placed  near  them,  so  that  they 
may  eat  at  pleasure.     The  ganders 
should  never  be  excluded  from  their 
company,   because    they    are   then 
instinctively  anxious  to  watch  over 
and  guard  their  own   geese.     The 
nests  of  geese  should   be  made  of 
straw,  and  so  confined  that  the  eggs 
may  not  roll  out,  as  the  geese  turn 
them   every   day.      When  they  are 
nearly  hatched,  it  is  proper  to  break 
the  shell  near  the  back  of  the  young 
gosling,  as  well  for  the  purpose  of 
admitting  the  air,  as  to  enable  it  to 
make  its  escape  at  the  proper  time. 
To  fatten  young  geese,  the  best  way 
is  to  coop  them  up  in  a  dark  nar- 
row place,  where  they  are  to  be  fed 
with  ground  malt  mixed  with  milk ; 
or  if  milk  be  scarce,   with   barley 
meal   mashed   up  with   water.      A 
less  expensive  way  will  be  to  give 
them  boiled  oats,  with  either  duck's 
meat  or  boiled  carrots ;  and -as  they 


are  very  fond  of  variety,  these  mav 
be   given   them   alternately.      They 
will  then  become  fat  in  a  few  weeks, 
and  their  flesh   will  acquire  a   fine 
flavour.     In  order  to  fatten  stubble 
geese  at  Michaelmas  time,  the  way 
is  to   turn   them  out  on  the   wheat 
stubble,  or  those  pastures  that  grow 
after   wheat   has    been    harvested. 
They  are  afterwards  to  be  pent  up, 
and   fed   with   ground    malt   mixed 
with  water.     Boiled  oats  or  wheat 
may  occasionally  be  substituted. — 
Ducks    are  fattened    in   the    same 
manner,  only  they  must  be  allowed 
a  large  pan  of  water  to  dabble  in. 
Those   kept   for   breeders,    should 
have    the   convenience   of  a   large 
pond  ;  and  such  as  have  their  bills 
a  little  turned  up  will  generally  be 
found    the    most    prolific.      In   the 
spring  of  the  year,   an   additional 
number  of  ducks  may  be  reared  by 
putting  the  eggs  under  the  care  of 
the  hen,  who  will  hatch  them  as  her 
own  brood. — TuRKiES,  early  in  the 
spring,  will  often  wander  to  a  dis- 
tance  in    order  to   construct  their 
nest,  where  the  hen  deposits  from 
fourteen  to  seventeen  eggs,  but  sel- 
dom produces  more  than  one  brood 
in  a  season.      Great  numbers  are 
reared  in  the  northern  counties,  and 
driven  by   hundreds  to  the  London 
market  by  means  of  a  shred  of  scar- 
let cloth  fastened  to  the  end  of  a 
pole,  which  from  their  antipathy  to 
this  colour  serves  as  a  whip.     Tur- 
kies  being  extremely  delicate  fowls, 
are  soon  injured  by  the  cold  :  hence 
it  is  necessary,  soon  after  they  are 
hatched,  to  force  them  to  swallow 
one   whole    peppercorn    each,   and 
then  restore    them    to   the    parent 
bird.     They  are  also  liable  to  a  pe- 
culiar disorder,  which  often  proves 
fatal  in  a  little  time.    On  inspecting 
the  rump  feathers,  two  or  three  of 
their  quills  will  be  found  to  contain 
blood  ;  but  on  drawing  them  out, 
the  chickens  soon  recover,  and  af- 
terwards require  no  other  care  than 
common  poultry.       Young  turkies 


POV 


V  R  E 


should  be  fed  with  crumbs  of  bread 
and  milk,  e^gs  boiled  hard  and 
chopped,  or  with  common  dock 
leaves  cut  fine,  and  mixed  with  fresh 
butter-milk.  They  also  require  to 
be  kept  in  the  sunshine  or  a  warm 
place,  and  guarded  from  the  rain, 
or  from  running  among  the  nettles. 
They  are  very  fond  of  the  common 
garden  peppercress,  or  cut-leaved 
cress,  and  should  be  supplied  with 
as  much  of  it  as  they  will  eat,  or 
allowed  to  pick  it  off  the  bed.  In 
Norfolk  they  are  fed  with  curds  and 
chopped  onions,  also  with  buck 
wheat,  and  are  literally  crammed 
with  boluses  of  barley  meal  till 
their  crops  are  full,  which  perhaps 
may  account  for  the  superior  excel- 
lence of  the  turkies  in  that  part  of 
the  kingdom. 

POUNCE.  This  article,  used  in 
writing,  is  made  of  gum  sandaric, 
powdered  and  sifted  very  fine  ;  or 
an  equal  quantity  of  rosin,  burnt 
alum,  and  cuttle  fishbone  well  dried, 
and  mixed  together.  This  last  is 
of  a  superior  quality. 

POUND  CAKE.  Beat  a  pound 
of  butter  to  a  cream,  and  mix  with 
it  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eight  eggs 
beaten  apart.  Have  ready  warm 
by  the  fire,  a  pound  of  flour,  and 
the  same  of  sifted  sugar.  Mix  them 
and  a  few  cloves,  a  little  nutmeg 
and  cinnamon,  in  fine  powder  toge- 
ther ;  then  by  degrees  work  the  dry 
ingredients  into  the  butter  and  eggs. 
It  must  be  well  beaten  for  a  full 
hour,  adding  a  glass  of  wine,  and 
some  carraway  seeds.  Butter  a  pan, 
and  bake  it  a  full  hour  in  a  quick 
ov(  n.  The  above  proportions, leaving 
out  four  ounces  of  the  butter,  and 
the  same  of  sugar,  make  a  less  lus- 
cious cake,  but  a  very  pleasant  one. 

POUNDED  CHEESE.  Cut  a 
pound  of  good  mellow  cheese  into 
thin  slices,  add  to  it  two  or  three 
ounces  of  fresh  butter,  rub  them 
well  together  in  a  mortar  till  quite 
smooth.  When  cheese  is  dry,  and 
for  those  whose  digestion  is  feeble, 
270  V 


this  is  the  best  way  of  eating  it; 
and  spread  on  bread,  it  makes  an 
excellent  supper.  The  flavour  of 
this  dish  may  be  encreased  by 
pounding  it  with  curry  powder, 
ground  spice,  black  cayenne,  and  a 
little  made  mustard  ;  or  it  may  be 
moistened  with  a  glass  of  sherry. 
If  pressed  down  hard  in  ajar,  and 
covered  with  clarified  butter,  it  will 
keep  for  several  days  in  cool  wea- 
ther. 

PRAWNS  AND  SHRIMPS. 
When  fresh  they  have  a  sweet  fla- 
vour, are  firm  and  stiff,  and  of  a 
bright  colour.  Shrimps  are  of  the 
prawn  kind,  and  may  be  judged  by 
the  same  rules. 

PRAWN  SOUP.  Boil  six  whit- 
ings and  a  large  eel,  in  as  much  wa- 
ter as  will  cover  them,  after  being 
well  cleaned.  Skim  them  clean, 
and  put  in  whole  pepper,  mace, 
ginger,  parsley,  or  onion,  a  little 
thyme,  and  three  cloves,  and  boil  the 
whole  to  a  mash.  Pick  fifty  craw- 
fish, or  a  hundred  prawns  ;  pound 
the  shells,  and  a  small  roll.  But 
first  boil  them  with  a  little  water, 
vinegar,  salt,  and  herbs.  Put  this 
liquor  over  the  shells  in  a  sieve,  and 
then  pour  the  soup,  clear  from  the 
sediment.  Chop  a  lobster,  and  add 
this  to  it,  with  a  quart  of  good  beef 
gravy.  Add  also  the  tails  of  the 
crawfish,  or  the  prawns,  with  some 
flour  and  butter.  The  seasoning 
may  be  heightened,  if  approved. 

PRESERVES.  These  can  never  be 
done  to  perfection,  without  plenty  of 
good  sugar.  Fruits  may  be  kept  with 
small  quantities  of  sugar,  but  then 
they  must  boil  so  long  that  there  is 
as  much  waste  in  the  boiling  away, 
as  some  more  sugar  added  at  first 
would  have  cost,  and  the  quality  of 
the  preserve  will  neither  be  so  pro- 
per for  use,  nor  of  so  good  an  ap- 
pearance, as  with  a  larger  propor- 
tion of  sugar,  and  moderate  boiling. 
Fruits  are  often  put  up  without  any 
sugar  at  all,  but  if  they  do  not  fer- 
ment and  spoil,  which  is  very  com- 


PRE 


PR  E 


mon,  they  must  have  a  good  deal  of 
sugar  added  to  them  when  used,  and 
thus  the  risk  of  spoihng  seems  hard- 
ly compensated  by  any  saving.  The 
only  real  economy  that  can  be  exer- 
cised in  this  case  is,  not  to  make  any 
preserves  at  all.  The  most  perfect 
state  in  which  fruits  in  general  can  be 
taken  for  preserving  is,  just  when 
they  are  full  ripe.  Sooner  than  this 
they  have  not  acquired  their  best 
qualities,  and  if  they  hang  long  after 
it  they  begin  to  lose  them.  Some 
persons  will  delay  the  doing  them, 
under  an  idea  that  the  longer  they 
hang  the  less  sugar  they  require.  But 
it  is  a  false  economy  that  would  lose 
the  perfection  of  the  fruit  to  save 
some  of  the  sugar,  and  probably 
quite  unfounded  in  fact,  as  all  things 
will  naturally  keep  the  best  that  are 
taken  at  their  highest  perfection,  and 
hence  do  with  as  little  sugar  then  as 
at  any  time. 

PRESERVED  CUCUMBERS. 
Choose  such  as  are  most  free  from 
seed  ;  some  should  be  small  to  pre- 
serve whole,  and  others  large  to  cut 
in  pieces.  Put  them  into  a  jar,  with 
strong  salt  and  water,  and  a  cabbage 
leaf  to  keep  them  down,  and  set  them 
in  a  warm  place  till  they  turn  yellow. 
Then  wash  and  set  them  over  the  fire 
in  fresh  water,  with  a  little  salt,  and 
a  fresh  cabbage  leaf  over  them; 
cover  the  pan  close,  but  they  must 
not  be  boiled.  If  not  of  a  fine  green, 
change  the  water,  cover  them  as  be- 
fore, and  make  them  hot ;  when  of 
a  good  green,  take  them  off  the  fire, 
and  let  them  stand  till  cold.  Cut  the 
large  cucumbers  in  quarters,  and  take 
out  the  seeds  and  pulp ;  put  them  into 
cold  water  for  two  days,  and  change 
the  water  twice  each  day.  Place  on 
the  fire  a  pound  of  refined  sugar,  with 
half  a  pint  of  water ;  skim  it  clean, 
put  in  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  an 
ounce  of  ginger  with  the  outside 
scraped  off.  When  the  syrup  is 
pretty  thick  take  it  off,  and  when 
cold  wipe  the  cucumbers  dry,  and 
put  them  in.     Boil  the  syrup  every 


two  or  three  days,  continuing  to  do 
so  for  three  weeks,  and  make  it 
stronger  if  necessary.  Be  sure  to 
put  the  syrup  to  the  cucumbers  quite 
cold,  cover  them  close,  and  keep 
them  in  a  dry  place. 

PRESERVED  OYSTERS.  Open 
the  oysters  carefully,  so  as  not  to 
cut  them,  except  in  dividing  the 
gristle  which  attaches  tho  shells. 
Put  them  into  a  mortar,  and  add 
about  two  drams  of  salt  to  a  dozen 
oysters.  Pound  and  then  rub  them 
through  the  back  of  a  hair  sieve,  and 
put  them  into  the  mortar  again,  with 
as  much  well-dried  flour  as  will  make 
them  into  a  paste.  Roll  it  out  se- 
veral times,  and  at  last  flour  and 
roll  it  out  the  thickness  of  a  half 
crown,  and  divide  it  into  pieces  about 
an  inch  square.  Lay  them  in  a 
Dutch  oven,  that  they  may  dry  gent- 
ly without  being  burnt ;  turn  them 
every  half  hour,  and  when  they  be- 
gin to  dry,  crumble  them.  They  will 
take  about  four  hours  to  dry,  the« 
pound  them  fine,  sift  and  put  them 
into  bottles,  and  seal  them  down. 
To  make  half  a  pint  of  oyster  sauce, 
put  one  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  three  drams  of  oyster  pow- 
der, and  six  spoonfuls  of  milk.  Set 
it  on  a  slow  fire,  stir  it  till  it  boils, 
and  season  it  with  salt.  This  pow- 
der, if  made  of  plump  juicy  natives, 
will  abound  with  the  flavour  of  the 
fish ;  .and  if  closely  corked,  and 
kept  in  a  dry  place,  will  remain  good 
for  some  time.  It  is  also  an  agree- 
able substitute  when  oysters  are  out 
of  season,  and  is  a  valuable  addition 
to  the  list  of  fish  sauces.  It  is  equally 
good  with  boiled  fowl,  or  rump 
steak  ;  and  sprinkled  on  bread  and 
butter,  it  makes  a  very  good  sand- 
wich. 

PRESERVED  WALNUTS.  Put 
the  walnuts  into  cold  water,  let  them 
boil  five  minutes,  strain  oft'  the  wa- 
ter, and  change  it  three  times.  Dry 
the  nuts  in  a  cloth,  and  weigh  them  ; 
to  every  pound  of  nuts  allow  a  pound 
of  sugar,  and  stick  a  clove  in  each. 
»  271 


p  11  i: 


P  R  I 


Piit  them  into  a  jar  with  some  rose 
vinegar  ;  boil  up  a  syrup,  with  a 
pint  of  water  and  half  a  pound  of 
sugar,  arid  pour  over  them.  Let 
them  stand  three  or  four  days,  and 
boil  up  the  syrup  again.  Repeat 
this  three  times,  and  at  last  give  the 
walnuts  a  good  scald,  and  let  them 
remain  in  the  syrup. 

PRESERVATION  OF  BUTTER. 
Butter,  as  it  is  generally  cured,  does 
not  keep  well  for  any  length  of  time, 
without  spoiling  or  becoming  rancid. 
The  following  method  of  preserving 
butter,  supposing  it  to  have  been 
previously  well  made,  is  recommend- 
ed as  the  best  at  present  known. 
Reduce  separately  to  fine  powder  in 
a  dry  mortar,  two  pounds  of  the 
whitest  common  salt,  one  pound  of 
saltpetre,  and  one  pound  of  lump 
sugar.  Sift  these  ingredients  one 
above  another,  on  two  sheets  of  pa- 
per joined  together,  and  then  mix 
them  well  with  the  hands,  or  with  a 
spatula.  Preserve  the  whole  in  a 
covered  jar,  placed  in  a  dry  situation. 
When  required  to  be  used,  one  ounce 
of  this  composition  is  to  be  propor- 
tioned to  every  pound  of  butter,  and 
the  whole  is  to  be  well  worked  into 
the  mass  :  the  butter  is  then  to  be 
packed  in  casks  in  the  usual  way. 
Butter  cured  with  this  mixture  will 
be  of  a  rich  marrowy  consistence, 
and  will  never  acquire  that  brittle 
hardness  so  common  to  salt  butter. 
It  has  been  known  to  keep  for  three 
years,  as  sweet  as  it  was  at  first ;  but 
it  must  be  observed,  that  butter  thus 
cured  requires  to  stand  at  least  three 
weeks  or  a  month  before  it  is  used. 
If  it  be  opened  sooner,  the  salts  are 
not  sufficiently  blended  with  it,  and 
sometimes  the  coolness  of  the  nitre 
will  then  be  perceived,  which  totally 
disappears  afterwards.  Cleanliness 
in  this  article  is  indispensable,  but 
it  is  not  generally  suspected,  that 
batter  made  or  kept  in  vessels  or 
troughs  lined  with  lead,  or  put  into 
glazed  earthenware  pans,  is  too  apt 
to  be  contaminated  with  particles  of 
272 


that  deleterious  metal.  If  the  butter 
is  in  the  least  degree  rancid,  this 
can  hardly  fail  to  take  place  ;  and  it 
cannot  be  doubted,  that  during  the 
decomposition  of  the  salts,  the  glaz- 
ing is  acted  upon.  It  is  better  there- 
fore to  use  tinned  vessels  for  mixing 
the  preservative  with  the  butter,  and 
to  pack  it  either  in  wooden  vessels, 
or  in  stone  jars  which  are  vitrified 
throughout,  and  do  not  require  any 
inside  glazing. 

PRESSED  BEEF.  Salt  a  piece 
of  the  brisket,  a  thin  part  of  the 
flank,  or  the  tops  of  the  ribs,  with 
salt  and  saltpetre  five  days.  Boil  it 
gently  till  extremely  tender,  ut  it 
under  a  great  weight,  or  in  a  cheese- 
press,  and  let  it  remain  till  perfectly 
cold.  It  is  excellent  for  sandwiches, 
or  a  cold  dish. 

PRIMROSE  VINEGAR.  Boil 
four  pounds  of  moist  sugar  in  ten 
quarts  of  water  for  about  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  and  take  oft'  the  scum. 
Then  pour  the  liquor  on  six  pints  of 
primroses,  add  some  fresh  yeast  be- 
fore it  is  quite  cold,  and  let  it  work 
all  night  in  a  warm  place.  When 
the  fermentation  is  over,  close  up 
the  barrel,  and  still  keep  it  in  a  warm 
place. 

PRINCE  OF  WALES'S  PUDi' 
DING.  Put  half  a  pound  of  loaf 
sugar,  and  half  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter,  into  a  saucepan  ;  set  it  over 
the  fire  till  both  are  melted,  stirring 
it  well,  as  it  is  very  liable  to  burn, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Pour  this  into 
an  earthen  pan,  grate  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  into  it,  and  leave  it  to  cool. 
Have  ready  two  sponge  biscuits 
soaked  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
cream,  bruise  them  fine  and  stir  them 
into  the  sugar  and  butter.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  ten,  and  the  whites  of  five 
ege:s  well  with  a  little  salt ;  squeeze 
and  strain  the  juice  of  the  lemon 
into  them,  and  mix  these  well  in  with 
the  other  ingredients.  Lay  a  puff" 
paste  into  the  dish,  strew  it  with 
pieces  of  candied  lemon  peel,  put  in 
the   pudding,   and    hake    it    three 


PRO 


PRO 


quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Sift  fine  sugar  over  it,  before 
it  is  sent  to  the  table. 

PROVISIONS.  The  first  of  all 
requisites  for  human  sustenance  is 
Bread,  which  with  great  propriety 
is  denominated  *  the  staft"  of  life.' 
The  next  to  this  is  Meat,  which 
though  not  alike  essential,  is  of  great 
importance  in  strengthening  and  in- 
vigorating the  human  frame.  The 
former  of  these  constituting  the 
principal  food  of  great  numbers, 
and  a  part  of  the  sustenance  of  all 
people,  it  is  highly  necessary  to  at- 
tend carefully  to  the  ingredients  of 
which  it  is  composed,  and  to  the 
manner  in  which  it  is  prepared.  A 
person's  health  must  inevitably  be 
injured  by  bad  corn  and  flour,  and 
even  by  what  is  good,  when  impro- 
perly prepared.  The  best  flour  is 
often  made  into  bad  bread  by  not 
suftering  it  to  rise  sufficiently  ;  by 
not  kneading  it  well,  by  not  baking 
it  enough,  and  by  keeping  it  too 
long.  Mixing  other  substances  with 
the  flour  also  injures  the  quality  of 
the  bread  in  a  very  high  degree. 
These  faults  have  a  bad  eff*ect  on 
those  who  generally  eat  such  bread, 
but  the  injury  is  still  more  serious 
to  children  and  weakly  persons. 
Where  the  flour  is  corrupted,  the 
use  of  it  in  every  other  article  of 
food,  will  of  course  be  as  unwhole- 
some as  in  that  of  bread.  The  mere 
exposure  to  the  air  will  evaporate 
and  deaden  all  flour,  though  the 
grain  may  never  have  passed  through 
any  fermentation  or  digestion  ;  as  in 
the  instance  of  wheat  flour,  the 
strongest  and  the  best  of  any  other. 
For  this  reason,  flour  which  has 
been  ground  five  or  six  weeks,  or 
longer,  though  it  be  kept  close  in 
sacks  or  barrels,  will  not  make  so 
sweet  a  loaf,  nor  one  so  moist  and 
pleasant,  as  that  which  is  newly 
ground.  Hence  all  bread  made  in 
London  eats  drier  and  harsher  than 
bread  in  the  country,  which  is  made 
within  a  few  days  after  the  grinding 


of  the  wheat.     All  grains  which  are 
ground,  ought  therefore  to  be  used 
as  soon  afterwards  as  possible.  But 
this  is  not  the  most  profitable  to  the 
dealers    in    meal,    as    meal    newly 
ground  will  not  part  so  freely  from 
the  bran,  nor  consequently  yield  so 
much  flour,  as  when  it  lies  a  certain 
time  after  the  grinding;  for  this  dis- 
poses the  branny   and  floury  parts 
to  give  way  from  each  other,  and 
thus  they  separate  easier  and  more 
completely  than  when  dressed  im- 
mediately.      The    flour    also    then 
looks  finer,  but  the  bread  made  of 
such  meal  is  not  of  so  good  a  qua- 
lity   as   that   made  of  meal   fresh 
ground.      All    sorts   of  grain  kept 
entire,  will  remain  sound  and  good 
for  a  long  time :  but  flour  will  in  a 
comparatively  short  time,  corrupt, 
and  generate  worms.     This  there- 
fore requires  peculiar  attention,  or 
much  loss  and  injury  may  be  sus- 
tained.    The  health  of  mankind  de- 
pends in  great  measure  on  the  good 
or  bad  preparation  of  food,  and  on 
the  purity  of  all  sorts  of  provisions  : 
and  grain  being  the  most  essential 
article  of  sustenance,  very  much  de- 
pends on   the  conduct  of  millers, 
bakers,  and  mealmen.     Those  who 
acquit  themselves  honestly  in  these 
vocations  are  entitled  to  a  fair  pro- 
fit, and  the  goodwill  of  their  fellow- 
men  :  but  such  as  betray  the  con- 
fidence reposed  in   them,  by  cor- 
rupting or  withholding  it  when  need- 
ed,  are   undoubtedly  amongst   the 
worst    enemies    of    mankind.       So 
far  as  health  is  concerned,   bread 
made  with  leaven  is  preferable   to 
that  made  with  yeast ;  the  sour  qua- 
lity of  leaven  is  more  agreeable  to 
the  ferment   of  the  stomach   than 
yeast ;  it  is  also  easier  of  digestion, 
and  more  cleansing.     It  opens  the 
vessels,  and  gives  a  healthy  appe- 
tite;  and  a  little  use  will  make  it 
familiar  and  pleasant  to  the  eater. 
.  This  bread  however  seldom  agrees 
with  weak  stomachs,  especially  such 
as  are  liable  to  acidity  and  heart- 
N  u  273 


PRO 


P  RO 


burn.      One  of  the   best  kinds  of 
bread  for  sickly  people,  is  made  of 
wheaten  flour,  the  coarse  or  husky 
bran  being  taken  out,  but  not  finely 
dressed  ;  otherwise  it  would  be  dry, 
and    obstructing   to    the    stomach. 
The  inner  skin   or  branny  parts  of 
wheat    contain    a    moisty    quality, 
which   is   opening    and    cleansing, 
while  the   fine  floury   parts   afl'ord 
more  nourishment.    Bread  therefore 
of  a  middling  quality  is  the  whole- 
somest,   and   the  best.     Mixing  in 
much    salt    is  injurious,    from  the 
change  it   occasions   in    bread    of 
every  description.     Finding  no  mat- 
ter liable  to  putrefaction  to  work  on, 
it  acts  upon  the  best  qualities  of  the 
flour,  which  it  alters  and  corrupts. 
Hence,  when  bread  is  intended   to 
be  kept  a  considerable  time,  as  bis- 
cuits for  a  long  voyage,  no  salt  is 
put  into  it.     But  bread  for  common 
use  will  admit  of  a  moderate  portion 
of  salt.     It  may  be  remarked  how- 
ever, that  bread,  notwithstanding  it 
is  so  excellent  with  meat,  milk,  and 
vegetables,  is  not  so  substantial  and 
nourishing  as  flour,  when  prepared 
in  porridges  and  other  articles.    To 
have  good  bread,  it  should  not  be 
baked  in  too  close  an  oven,  but  a 
free  passage  should  be  left  for  the 
air.     The  best  way  is  to  make  it 
into  thin  cakes,  and  bake  them  on  a 
stone,  which  many  in  the  northern 
counties  use  for  that  purpose,  mak- 
ing a  wood  fire  under  it.     This  sort 
of  bread  is  sweeter,  of  a  more  inno- 
cent taste,  and  far  easier  of  diges- 
tion, than  bread  baked  the  common 
way  in  ovens.     In  the  same  manner 
cakes  may  be  made  of  any  kind  of 
grain,  such  as  rye,  oats,  or  barley, 
and  will  be  found  more  wholesome 
and  nourishing,  and  more  agreeable 
to  nature,  than  bread  made  in  the 
usual  manner.     Oat  cakes  are  often 
preferred  to  those  made  of  wheat 
flour,  as  they  tend  to  open  the  bo- 
dy, and  are  rather  warmer,  to  cold 
and  weak  stomachs.     Barley  is  not 
so   uourishins:,  and    requires    more 
^74 


preparation  to  render  it  digestible^ 
than  the  other  kinds  of  grain.  Cakes, 
biscuits,    muffins,  buns,   crumpets, 
and   small  bread,  made  with   eggs, 
butter,  or  sugar,  seldom  agree  with 
delicate   persons.      Biscuits    made 
without   leaven,    yeast,    butter,    or 
sugar,  are  more  difliicult  of  diges- 
tion,  than    bread   when    it   is   fer- 
mented.    Where  bread  is  fixed  to 
a  standard  weight  and  price,  bakers 
are  very  apt  to  mix  alum  and  pearl- 
ash  with  it,  for  the  purpose  of  hast- 
ening its  rising,  and  of  encreasing 
its  weight,  by  causing  it  to  retain  its 
moisture.     If  a  piece  of  bread  be 
soaked  in  water,  and  turns  the  juice 
of  a  red  cabbage  into  a  green  colour, 
it  is  a  proof  that  it  contains  an  al- 
kali or  earthy  substance,  which  is 
most  probably  pearlash.     It  is  said 
that  a  compound  salt  is  clandestine- 
ly sold  in  London,  under  the  name 
of  baker's  salt,  and  is  composed  of 
the  above  ingredients.     When  there 
is  reason  to  suspect  that  bread  is 
adulterated   with  alum,  it  may   be 
detected  thus.     Cut  about  a  pound 
of  bread  into  an  earthen  vessel,  pour 
upon   it  a  quart  of  boiling  water, 
and  let  it  stand  till  cold.  Strain  the 
liquor  oflf  gently  through  a  piece  of 
fine  linen,  boil  it  down  to  about  a 
wine  glass  full,  and  set  it  by  to  cool. 
If  there  be  a  mixture  of  alum,  it  will 
form  itself  into  crystals.     The  ob- 
servance of  the  following  rules  may 
be   considered   as  essential  to   the 
making  of  good  bread.     The  corn 
must  be  sound  and  clean,  and  newly 
ground,  and  not  contaminated  with 
any  extraneous  mixtures.    To  make 
it  easy   of  digestion    it  should   be 
leavened,  and  moderately  seasoned 
with  salt.      Let  it  rise  for  several 
hours,   and   be  well    wrought    and 
kneaded  with  the  hands.      It  must 
be  well  baked,  but  neither  over  nor 
under-done.  If  baked  too  little,  the 
bread  will  be  heavy,  clammy,   and 
unwholesome :     if    too    much,     its 
strength  and  goodness  will  be  con- 
sumed.    In   general,  bread    should 


PRO 


PRO 


not  be  eaten  hot ;  it  is  then  uiore 
viscid,  and  harder  of  digestion. 
Bread  is  in  its  best  state  the  first 
and  second  day  after  it  is  baked. 
Economical  bread,  or  bread  of  an 
inferior  quality,  depraved  by  other 
mixtures,  has  frequently  been  re- 
commended to  poor  people  in  times 
of  scarcity  ;  but  except  where  ab- 
solute necessity  exists,  this  is  a  kind 
of  policy  that  cannot  be  too  severe- 
ly condemned.  The  labouring  class- 
es, whose  dependence  is  almost  en- 
tirely upon  bread,  ought  to  be  pro- 
vided with  what  is  of  the  purest  and 
most  nutricious  quality,  and  at  a 
reasonable  price.  They  might  then 
live  upon  their  lab;;ur,  and  in  health 
and  activity  would  feel  that  labour 
itself  was  sweet.  If  potatoes,  rice, 
or  any  other  ingredients  are  to  be 
mixed  with  the  bread,  to  lower  its 
nutricious  qualities,  let  it  not  be 
offered  to  the  labourer ;  but  if  eco- 
nomy of  this  kind  be  required,  let 
it  be  exercised  by  those  whose  eyes 
are  standing  out  with  fatness,  and 
to  whom  a  sparer  diet  might  be  be- 
neficial.— Meat  in  general,  as  well 
as  all  other  kinds  of  food,  is  nou- 
rishing or  otherwise,  according  to 
its  quality,  and  the  manner  in  which 
it  is  prepared.  There  are  peculiar 
constitutions,  or  particular  diseases 
and  periods  of  life,  when  animal 
food  is  highly  detrimental ;  and 
others  again,  when  it  is  essentially 
necessary  ;  but  it  is  the  general  use 
of  it,  and  not  these  exceptions,  that 
will  be  the  subject  of  the  following 
observations.  As  a  part  of  our  ha- 
bitual diet,  the  main  points  to  be  at- 
tended to  are,  the  kinds  of  animal 
food,  and  the  modes  of  dressing  it, 
which  are  most  to  be  recommended. 
A  choice  of  meat  is  desirable,  but  if 
the  animals  subject  to  this  choice 
be  neither  sound  nor  healthy,  it  is 
of  little  consequence  which  kind  is 
preferred,  for  they,  are  alike  un- 
wholesome. It  is  proper  therefore 
to  avoid  the  flesh  of  all  such  as  are 
fatted  in  confinement,  or  upon  per- 


nicious substances,  which  can  never 
make  wholesome  food.  Oil  cakes 
and  rank  vegetables,  with  want  of 
air  and  exercise,  will  produce  such 
§ort  of  meat  as  will  shew  immediate- 
ly fr^m  its  appearance,  that  it  must 
be  unwholesome.  Animals  may  eat 
rancid  fulsome  food,  and  grow  fat 
upon  it,  and  yet  the  meat  they  pro- 
duce may  be  highly  offensive.  Hun- 
ger and  custom  will  induce  the  eat- 
ing of  revolting  substances,  both  in 
the  brute  and  human  species  ;  and 
growing  fat  is  by  no  means  a  certain 
sign  of  health.  On  the  contrary,  it 
is  frequently  the  symptom  of  a  gross 
habit,  and  a  tendency  to  disease. 
The  distinct  effects  of  various  kinds 
of  food  upon  animals,  are  very  ob- 
vious in  the  instance  of  milch  cows. 
Grass,  hay,  straw,  grains,  turnips, 
and  oil  cakes,  produce  milk  of  such 
different  qualities  as  must  be  at 
once  distinguished ;  and  the  pre- 
ference to  that  where  cows  are  fed 
upon  grass  or  hay,  and  next  to  them 
straw,  appears  very  decided.  The 
inference  would  be  fair,  that  it  must 
be  the  same  with  respect  to  flesh, 
even  if  it  were  less  obvious  than  it 
is.  It  is  an  unwise  economy,  in  the 
management  of  cows,  that  withholds 
from  them  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
the  best  and  most  nourishing  food. 
If  duly  appreciated,  the  quality  of 
milk  is  even  of  superior  importance 
to  that  of  flesh,  from  its  general  ex- 
cellence and  utility  as  an  article  of 
food.  If  milk  was  plentiful  and 
good,  the  want  of  meat  would  in 
many  instances  not  be  felt,  and  in 
others,  the  consumption  of  it  might 
be  lessened  with  great  advantage. 
To  confine  cows  with  a  view  to  in- 
crease their  supply  of  milk,  is  as 
injurious  to  the  quality  of  it,  as  the 
confinement  of  animals  is  in  other 
instances.  The  over  feeding  them 
also  with  a  similar  view,  is  an  in- 
jurious practice.  Cleanliness  too 
is  no  less  essential  to  keeping  them 
in  a  wholesome  state,  than  to  ani- 
mals intended  to  be  slaughtered, 
275 


PRO 


PRO 


It  is  no  uncommon  effect  of  confining 
and  cramming  animals,  that  they 
become  diseased  in  the  liver,  besides 
acquiring  a  general  tendency  to  pu- 
tridity in  their  juices  and  musculaf 
substances,  from  want  of  air  and 
exercise,  texcess  of  feeding  and  bad 
food,  and  the  dirt  in  which  they 
live.  A  brute,  no  more  than  a  hu- 
man being,  can  digest  9,bove  a  cer- 
tain quantity  of  food,  to  convert  it 
into  actual  nourishment ;  and  good 
chyle  can  only  be  produced  from 
wholesome  food,  cleanliness,  air, 
and  exercise.  To  be  well  fleshed 
rather  than  fat,  is  the  desirable 
state  of  animals  destined  for  slaugh- 
ter. There  will  always  be  with  this 
a  sufllicient  proportion  of  fat ;  and 
labouring  by  artificial  means  to  pro- 
duce more,  is  only  encreasing  that 
part  of  animal  substance,  which 
from  its  gross  indigestible  nature 
is  not  proper  for  human  diet,  unless 
in  a  very  limited  degree.  Venison, 
which  in  its  domestic  state  is  never 
fatted  like  other  animals  ;  game,  and 
every  wild  animal  proper  for  food  ; 
possess  superior  qualities  to  the 
tame,  from  the  total  contrast  in  their 
habits,  more  than  from  the  food 
they  eat.  They  have  an  extensive 
range  in  the  open  air,  take  much 
exercise,  and  choose  their  own  sus- 
tenance, the  good  efl'ects  of  which 
are  very  evident  in  a  short  delicate 
texture  of  flesh  found  only  in  them. 
Their  juices  and  flavour  are  more 
pure,  and  their  fat  is  far  more  de- 
licious than  that  of  home-bred  ani- 
mals. The  superiority  of  Welch 
mutton  and  Scotch  beef  is  owing  to 
a  similar  cause,  and  is  still  more  in 
point  than  the  former,  as  a  contrast 
between  animals  of  the  same  species 
under  diflnerent  management.  The 
preferences  just  mentioned  are  not 
a  mere  matter  of  taste,  which  might 
readily  be  dispensed  with,  but  are 
founded  on  more  important  con- 
siderations. A  short  delicate  tex- 
ture renders  the  meat  more  digesti- 
ble, in  a  very  high  degree,  than  the 
276 


coarse,  heavy,  stringy  kind  of  sub- 
'stance  produced  by  the  misapplied 
art  of  man.  A  pure  animal  juice 
too,  is  something  more  than  a  lux- 
ury ;  for  if  what  we  use  as  food  is 
not  pure,  neither  can  our  blood  nor 
our  juices  be  so.  If  we  would  but 
be  content  with  unadulterated  lux- 
uries, we  have  them  at  our  com- 
mand ;  and  provided  they  are  not 
indulged  to  excess,  are  of  decided 
advantage  to  our  health.  Supposing 
all  animal  flesh  to  be  good  of  its 
kind,  there  is  still  abundant  room 
for  selection  and  choice.  Mutton, 
beef,  venison,  game,  wild  rabbits, 
fowls,  turkies,  and  various  small 
birds,  are  preferable  to  lamb,  veal, 
pork,  young  pigs,  ducks,  geese,  and 
tame  rabbits.  Beef  and  mutton  are 
much  easier  of  digestion  and  more 
nutricious  than  veal  and  lamb,  es- 
pecially if  not  slaughtered  before 
they  come  to  proper  maturity.  No- 
thing arrives  at  perfection  under  a 
stated  period  of  growth,  and  till  this 
is  attained  it  will  aflford  only  inferior 
nutriment.  If  the  flesh  of  mutton 
and  lamb,  beef  and  veal,  are  com- 
pared, they  will  be  found  of  a  dif- 
ferent texture,  and  the  two  young 
meats  of  a  more  stringy  indivisible 
nature  than  the  others,  which  makes 
them  harder  of  digestion.  Neither 
are  their  juices  so  nourishing  when 
digested  ;  as  any  one  at  all  in  the 
habit  of  observing  what  is  passing 
within  and  about  them  will  readily 
perceive  from  their  own  experience. 
Lamb  and  veal  leave  a  craving  nan 
sea  in  the  stomach,  not  perceived 
after  taking  other  kinds  of  animal 
food.  Veal  broth  soon  turns  sour 
by  standing,  owing  to  the  sugar  of 
milk  contained  in  the  blood  of  a 
calf;  and  the  same  change  takes 
place  in  a  weak  stomach.  Persons 
in  the  habit  of  drinking  strong  li- 
quors with  their  meals,  cannot  com- 
petently judge  Qf  such  an  eff«ect ;  as 
these  liquors  harden  all  kinds  of 
animal  food,  and  therefore  little  dis- 
tinction can  be  perceived  amongst 


PRO 


PRO 


them.  Pork  and  young  pigs  are 
liable  to  the  same  objections  as  lamb 
and  veal,  but  in  a  greater  degree  ; 
they  are  fat  and  luscious,  but  afford 
no  nutriment.  Ducks  and  geese  are 
of  a  coarse  oily  nature,  and  only  fit 
for  very  strong  stomachs.  Tame 
rabbits  are  of  a  closer  heavier  tex- 
ture than  wild  ones,  and  hence  of 
inferior  quality.  Pigeons  are  of  a 
hot  nature,  and  should  therefore  be 
used  sparingly.  Fowls  and  turkies 
are  of  a  mild  proper  nature  for  food, 
but  the  fattening  them  in  confine- 
ment is  equally  prejudicial,  as  to 
other  animals  already  mentioned. 
If  left  at  large,  well  fed  with  good 
barley,  and  with  clean  water  to 
drink,  they  will  be  little  inferior  to 
game.  Barley  is  preferable  to  bar- 
ley meal,  as  retaining  all  the  natural 
qualities  of  the  grain  in  greater  per- 
fection than  when  ground  ;  and  as 
these  birds  are  provided  with  grind- 
ers in  the  gizzard,  the  concocting 
their  own  food  is  more  nourishing 
and  wholesome  for  them.  These, 
like  other  animals,  should  be  suf- 
fered to  attain  their  full  growth,  in 
order  to  have  them  in  the  best  state 
for  nutriment.  Some  parts  of  birds, 
and  other  animals,  are  hard  and  vis^ 
cid,  as  the  head,  neck,  feet,  and 
tail;  the  parts  about  the  wings, 
back,  and  breast  of  birds,  are  in 
general  the  most  tender,  and  of  the 
finest  flavour.  In  four-footed  ani- 
mals, the  upper  part  of  the  leg  and 
shoulder,  the  back,  breast,  and  long 
bones  of  the  neck,  are  generally  su- 
perior to  the  rest.  The  heart  and 
other  viscera  are  nutricious,  but 
hard  of  digestion,  and  improper  for 
weak  stomachs.  The  larger  an  ani- 
mal is  of  its  kind,  the  flesh  of  it 
will  be  stronger,  and  more  difficult 
to  digest ;  the  juices  also  will  be 
more  rank  than  those  of  smaller 
ones  of  the  same  species,  supposing 
them  to  have  arrived  at  the  same 
maturity.  Animals  which  abound 
with  fat  and  oily  substances  are 
harder  t"  digest,  than  those    of  a 


drier  and  more  fleshy  nature  ;  and 
to  persons  who  use  but  little  exer- 
cise, or  have  weak  stomachs,  this 
kind  of  food  is  very  improper.  Its 
tendency  is  to  weaken  the  tone  and 
force  of  the  stomach,  the  fat  and 
oil  being  enclosed  in  little  bladders, 
which  are  with  difficulty  broken  and 
separated.  Hence  fat  meat  is  not 
so  digestible  as  that  of  well  fed  ani- 
mals, which  do  not  abound  with  fat.  i 
The  flesh  of  very  old  animals  is  un- 
wholesome, being  hard,  dry,  sinewy, 
innutricious,  and  difficult  to  digest. 
Those  which  are  the  longest  in  com- 
ing to  maturity  have  the  coarsest 
juices,  such  as  oxen,  cows,  and 
boars.  These  are  less  tender  and 
digestible  than  sheep,  venison,  hares, 
rabbits,  poultry,  game,  and  other 
birds.  In  almost  all  cases,  the 
strong  and  pungent  in  flavour  are 
harder  to  digest  than  those  of  a 
milder  nature.  The  flesh  of  birds 
is  lighter,  drier,  and  easier  of  di- 
gestion, than  that  of  four-footed 
animals.  A  diflference  also  arises 
from  the  place  of  pasturage,  from 
food  and  exercise.  Animals  living 
in  high  places,  refreshed  with  whtjle- 
some  winds,  and  cherished  with  the 
warm  beams  of  the  sun,  where  there 
are  no  marshes,  lakes,  or  standing 
waters,  are  preferable  to  those  liv- 
ing in  pools,  as  ducks  and  geese, 
and  other  kinds  of  fowl. — Fish  is 
less  nourishing  than  flesh,  because  it 
is  gross,  phlegmatic,  cold,  and  full  of 
watery  superfluities  :  but  under  cer- 
tain restrictions,  it  may  be  safely 
used  as  a  part  of  our  general  diet. 
It  is  unsuitable  to  cold  phlegmatic 
constitutions,  but  very  well  adapted 
to  such  as  are  hot  and  choleric. 
The  white  kinds  of  fish,  which  con- 
tain neither  fat  nor  oil,  are  prefer- 
able to  the  test ;  such  as  whitings, 
turbot,  soles,  skate,  haddock,  floun- 
ders, smelts,  trout,  and  graylings. 
These  are  easier  of  digestion  than 
salmon,  raackarel,  eels,  lampreys, 
herrings,  or  sprats,  and  therefore 
more  wholesome.  Shell-fish,  such 
277 


PRO 


PRO 


as  oysters,  muscles,  cockles,  crabs, 
and  lobsters,  are  very  far  from  being 
easy  of  digestion,  and  are  particu- 
larly improper  for  invalids,  though 
too  commonly  imagined  to  be  suit- 
able in  such  cases.  In  general  it 
may  be  observed,  that  those  kinds 
of  fish  which  are  well  grown,  nou- 
rish better  than  the  young  and  im- 
mature. Sea-fish  are  wholesomer 
than  fresh-water  fish  :  tfiey  are  of 
a  hotter  nature,  not  so  moist,  and 
more  approaching  to  flesh  meat. 
Of  all  sea  and  river  fish,  those  are 
the  best  which  live  in  rocky  places. 
Next  to  these,  in  gravelly  or  sandy 
places,  in  sweet,  clear,  running  wa- 
ter, where  there  is  nothing  offensive. 
Those  which  live  in  pools,  muddy 
lakes,  marshes,  or  stagnant  water, 
are  bad.  Whether  sea  or  river 
fish,  those  are  the  best  which  are 
not  too  large,  whose  flesh  is  not  hard 
and  dry,  but  crisp  and  tender;  which 
taste  and  smell  well,  and  have  many 
fins  and  scales.  All  fresh  fish  should 
be  eaten  hot,  and  less  in  quantity 
than  fresh  meat.  Fish  should  not 
be  eaten  very  often,  and  never  after 
great  labour  and  exercise,  nor  after 
eating  other  solid  food.  Fish  and 
milk  are  not  proper  to  be  eaten  at 
the  same  meal,  nor  should  eggs  be 
used  with  fish,  except  with  salt  fish, 
and  that  should  be  well  soaked  in 
water  before  it  is  dressed.  It  may 
be  eaten  with  carrots  or  parsnips, 
instead  of  egg  sauce.  If  salt  fish 
be  eaten  too  often,  or  without  this 
precaution,  it  produces  gross  hu- 
mours and  bad  juices  in  the  body  ; 
occasions  thirst,  hoarseness,  sharp- 
ness in  the  blood,  and  other  unfa- 
vourable symptoms.  It  is  therefore 
a  kind  of  food  which  should  be  used 
very  sparingly,  and  given  only  to 
persons  of  a  strong  constitution. 
All  kinds  of  salted  and  dried  fish 
are  innutricious  and  unwholesome, 
and  their  injurious  effects  are  often 
visible  in  the  habits  of  seafaring 
people.  Even  prawns  and  shrimps, 
if  eaten  too  freely,  are  known  to  pro- 


duce  surfeits,  which  end  in  St.  An- 
thony's fire. — If  proper  attention  be 
paid  to  health,  every  kind  of  suste- 
nance intended  for  the  use  of  man, 
must  be  provided  in  its  season; 
for  to  every  thing  there  is  both  time 
and  season,  which  the  wisdom  and 
goodness  of  providence  have  point- 
ed out.  Every  production  is  the 
most  pure  in  quality,  and  of  course 
the  most  wholesome,  when  nature 
has  perfected  her  work,  and  pre- 
pared it  for  human  sustenance.  To 
anticipate  her  seasons,  or  to  prolong 
them,  is  a  misapplication  of  labour, 
and  a  perversion  of  the  bounties  of 
providence  into  secret  poisons,  to 
indulge  the  wanton  cravings  of  a 
depraved  appetite.  The  properties 
of  animal  food  in  general  seem  not 
to  restrict  the  use  of  it  to  any  par- 
ticular season,  but  rather  to  admit 
its  common  use  at  all  times.  The 
only  period  in  which  it  is  less  sea- 
sonable than  at  any  other,  appears 
to  be  in  hot  weather,  when  animal 
substances  of  all  kinds  are  very  liable 
to  taint.  The  profuse  supply  of  ve- 
getables too  in  the  warmer  months, 
seems  to  lessen  the  occasion  for  ani- 
mal food.  Attention  should  be  paid 
however  at  all  times  to  the  proper 
season  for  using  the  different  kinds 
of  animal  food,  and  to  the  various 
circumstances  that  may  contribute 
to  its  being  more  or  less  wholesome. 
The  killing  of  animals  by  the  easiest 
means,  and  not  previously  abusing 
them  by  over-driving,  or  in  any  other 
way,  materially  affects  their  fitness 
for  food,  and  ought  therefore  to  be 
carefully  attended  to.  The  high 
flavour,  or  taint  in  meat,  which  so 
many  English  palates  prefer,  is  in 
fact  the  commencement  of  putrefac- 
tion ;  and  of  course  meat  in  this 
state  is  very  improper  for  food,  par- 
ticularly for  persons  with  any  ten- 
dency to  putrid  disorders.  At  a 
time  when  bad  fevers  prevail,  food 
of  this  description  ought  to  be  ge- 
nerally avoided,  as  it  disposes  the 
blood  and  juices  to  receive  infection. 


PRO 


PRO 


With  respect  to  grain,  its  adapted - 
ness  to  keep  the  whole  year  round, 
evidently  denotes  that  it  was  intend- 
ed for  constant  use.  But  the  re- 
currence of  an  annual  supply  seems 
to  be  the  voice  of  nature,  forbid- 
ding its  being  kept  in  ordinary  cases 
to  a  longer  period,  especially  as 
new  corn  is  generally  preferred  to 
the  old.  All  other  vegetables,  in- 
cluding fruits,  seem  designed  only 
for  a  transient  season.  Roots,  and 
a  few  late  fruits,  have  indeed  the 
property  of  keeping  for  some  months, 
and  may  thus  provide  a  store  for 
the  winter,  when  fresh  vegetables 
are  less  plentiful.  Other  kinds  will 
not  keep  without  undergoing  a  culi- 
nary process,  by  which  they  are 
rendered  less  wholesome,  however 
palatable  they  may  be  considered. 
Provisions  of  almost  every  descrip- 
tion may  be  preserved  from  putre- 
faction by  being  partially  dressed 
and  then  closely  stopped  down,  as 
has  been  fully  demonstrated  by 
Messrs.  Donkin  and  Gamble  of  Ber- 
mondsey,  who  by  means  of  air-tight 
canisters  are  in  the  habit  of  pre- 
paring all  kinds  of  meat,  which  will 
keep  perfectly  sweet  and  fresh  for  a 
considerable  length  of  time  in  any 
climate,  and  are  incomparably  bet- 
ter than  those  preserved  in  the  or- 
dinary way  by  salting  or  drying. 
But  however  applicable  these  pre- 
serves may  be  to  the  purposes  of  a 
long  voyage,  or  a  foreign  expedition, 
where  no  fresh  supplies  can  be  ob- 
tained, they  are  by  no  means  to  be 
recommended  to  private  families, 
who  enjoy  the  superior  advantages 
of  going  to  market  for  fresh  pro- 
risions.  Time,  which  devours  all 
things,  cannot  fail  to  impair,  though 
not  immediately,  the  flavour  and 
other  properties  of  whatever  is  pre- 
served, in  defiance  of  every  precau- 
tion against  its  influence.  The  ap- 
pearance and  flavour  of  such  arti- 
cles may  not  be  revolting  to  us,  but  if 
compared  with  the  same  things  when 
fresh  and  well  dressed,  their  infe- 


ority  is  suflSciently  obvious.  Pickled 
salmon  is  a  familiar  instance  of  this 
kind.  It  is  very  generally  relished, 
and  often  preferred  to  fresh  salmon ; 
yet  if  brought  into  comparison,  the 
substance  of  the  one  is  heavy,  that 
of  the  other  light  and  elastic.  The 
flavour  of  the  pickled  salmon  is  so- 
phisticated and  deadened,  if  not 
vapid  ;  that  of  the  other  is  natural, 
fresh,  and  delicate,  the  pure  vola- 
tile spirit  not  being  destroyed  by 
improper  cookery,  or  long  keeping. 
Instances  of  violent  surfeits  often 
occur  from  eating  pickled  salmon, 
soused  mackarel,  and  other  rich 
preserves,  not  from  their  being  in  a 
state  of  decay,  but  from  the  un- 
wholesomeness  of  their  preparation. 
People  acquire  tastes  indeed,  that 
reconcile  them  to  any  thing ;  that 
even  make  them  fond  of  corrupted 
flavours,  such  as  decayed  cheese, 
tainted  meat,  and  other  things  of 
a  similar  description.  Our  taste 
therefore  is  very  likely  to  betray  us 
into  error  ;  and  to  guard  against  it, 
it  is  necessary  to  be  able  to  distin- 
guish between  what  is  really  whole- 
some and  what  is  otherwise,  for  this 
is  rather  a  matter  of  judgment  than 
of  taste. — A  few  brief  remarks  may 
very  properly  be  added  on  the  im- 
portant article  of  Milk,  which 
forms,  or  ought  to  form,  an  essen- 
tial part  of  the  food  of  every  family, 
in  one  shape  or  another.  As  far  as 
regards  the  general  properties  of 
milk,  it  is  in  season  at  all  times  ; 
and  by  judicious  management  it 
might  always  be  supplied  in  suf- 
ficient quantities  to  become  a  plen- 
tiful source  of  human  sustenance. 
It  is  of  the  best  quality  however, 
five  or  six  months  after  a  cow  has 
calved.  When  she  becomes  with 
calf  again,  her  milk  will  of  course 
fall  off,  both  in  quantity  and  in  qua- 
lity. The  impatient  greediness  of 
cow-keepers  would  have  calves  and 
milk  at  the  same  time,  and  on  this 
account  they  seldom  allow  their 
dairies  a  fairinterval  for  keeping  up 
270 


PRO 


PRO 


a  successive  supply  of  the  best  milk. 
To  keep  cows  in  the  healthiest  con- 
dition, and  their  milk  consequently 
in  the  purest  state,  they  should  not 
be  confined  in  houses,  nor  in  yards, 
but  suffered  to  go  at  large  in  the 
open  fields.  They  should  also  be 
well  fed  with  wholesome  provender, 
and  have  access  to  good  water.  If 
kept  quite  clean,  by  occasionally 
rubbing  them  down,  arid  washing 
their  bag,  and  legs  and  feet,  their 
health  would  be  promoted,  and  of 
course  the  nutricious  quality  of  the 
milk.  If  the  comfort  and  welfare 
of  society  were  consulted,  the  higher 
classes  would  not  slight  their  dai- 
ries for  studs  of  horses,  kept  more 
for  ostentation  than  for  use.  In  re- 
ference to  the  same  subject,  the 
breaking  up  of  small  farms  is  deep- 
ly to  be  regretted,  not  only  as  ruin- 
ous to  a  numerous  class  of  deserv- 
ing persons,  but  as  depriving  the 
markets  and  the  neighbourhoods  of 
those  articles  of  necessity  which 
their  industry  produced.  It  was  an 
object  to  a  small  farmer  to  make  the 
most  of  his  dairy  and  poultry  yard, 
which  to  an  occupier  on  a  larger 
scale  is  regarded  as  a  matter  of  in- 
difference. The  consequtnce  is, 
there  is  neither  so  plentiful  a  sup- 
ply of  these  things,  nor  are  they  so 
good  in  quality  as  formerly.  The 
wife  of  a  small  farmer  attended  to 
her  own  business,  her  poultry  was 
brought  up  at  the  barn  door,  and 
killed  when  it  was  sweet  and  whole- 
some, while  the  produce  of  her  dairy 
redounded  to  her  credit,  and  afford- 
ed ample  satisfaction  to  her  cus- 
tomers.^— The  most  judicious  choice 
of  food  however  will  avail  but  tittle, 
if  the  manner  of  preparing  it  is  not 
equally  judicious.  The  principal 
error  in  cooking  lies  in  overdoing 
what  is  intended  for  the  table  ;  the 
quaUties  of  the  meat  are  then  so  en- 
tirely changed,  that  it  ceases  to  be 
nourishing,  and  becomes  hard  of 
digestion.  It  is  literally  put  into  the 
stomach  only  to  be  pressed  out  of  it 
280 


again  by  some  unnatural  exertion, 
which  at  last  throws  the  oppressive 
load  into  the  rest  of  the  system,  from 
whence  it  will  not  pass  off  without 
leaving  some  injury  behind  it.  This, 
frequently  repeated,  ends  at  last  in 
acute  or  chronic  diseases,  no  less 
certainly  than  constant  friction  up- 
on a  stone  will  at  length  wear  it 
away,  though  it  may  be  a  long  time 
before  any  impression  upon  it  is  per- 
ceived. Similar  effects  arise  from 
drinking,  but  generally  with  a  more 
rapid  progress,  from  the  extensioq 
and  collapse  of  the  vessels  being 
more  sudden  and  violent.  Plain 
cookery,  in  the  exact  medium  be- 
tween under  and  over  doing,  is  the 
point  to  be  attained  to  render  our 
food  salutary.  The  mixture  of  a 
great  variety  of  ingredients  should 
be  avoided,  for  if  good  in  themselves 
separately,  they  are  often  rendered 
indigestible  by  being  compounded 
one  with  another.  As  we  must  cat 
every  day,  there  is  opportunity 
enough  for  all  things  in  turn,  with- 
out attempting  any  unwholesome 
composition.  Much  seasoning  with 
spices,  contributes  to  make  animal 
food  indigestible.  They  are  much 
safer  when  used  just  before  serving 
up  the  dish,  or  by  adding  them  at 
the  time  of  eating  it.  Beef  and  pork 
long  salted,  and  hams,  bacon, 
tongues,  and  hung  beef,  are  very 
indigestible,  and  particularly  im- 
proper for  weak  stomachs,  though 
they  will  often  crave  them.  '  Boiled 
meat  is  generally  preferable  to  roast 
meat,  for  nourishment  and  diges- 
tion. Boiling  extracts  more  of  the 
rank  strong  juices,  and  renders  it 
lighter  and  more  diluted.  Roasting 
leaves  it  fuller  of  gravy,  but  it  adds 
to  the  rigidity  of  the  fibres.  The 
flesh  of  young  animals  is  best  roast- 
ed. Fried  and  broiled  meats  are 
diflicult  to  be  digested,  though  they 
are  very  nourishing:  weak  stomachs 
had  better  avoid  them.  Meat  pies 
and  puddings  cannot  be  recom- 
mended,  but  strong  stomachs  may 


PRU 


P  V  D 


sustain  but  little  inconvenience  from 
them.  It  is  a  confined  mode  of 
cookery,  and  the  meat  therefore  is 
not  at  all  purified  of  its  grossness. 
When  meat  pies  and  puddings  are 
used,  they  should  be  moderately 
seasoned.  Baking  meat,  instead  of 
roasting  it,  is  a  worse  manner  of 
dressing  it,  from  the  closeness  of 
the  oven,  and  the  great  variety  of 
things  often  baking  at  the  same 
time.  Stewing  is  not  a  good  way 
of  dressing  meat,  unless  it  is  done 
very  carefully.  If  it  is  stewed  till 
all  the  juices  are  drawn  from  the 
mea«t,  the  latter  becomes  quite  unfit 
for  food :  and  if  the  stewpan  be 
kept  close  covered,  there  are  the 
same  objections  to  it  as  meat  pies 
and  puddings.  Hashing  is  a  very 
bad  mode  of  cooking.  It  is  doing 
over  again  what  has  already  been 
done  enough,  and  makes  the  meat 
vapid  and  hard.  What  would  have 
been  good  nourishment  in  the  cold 
meat,  is  thus  totally  lost,  as  the 
juices,  which  are  all  drawn  into  the 
gravy,  are  spoiled  by  this  second 
cookery,  which  exposes  them  top 
long  to  the  fire. 

PRUNE  PUDDING.  Mix  four 
spoonfuls  of  flour  in  a  quart  of  milk ; 
add  six  eggs,  two  tea- spoonfuls  of 
powdered  ginger,  a  little  salt,  and  a 
pound  of  prunes.  Tie  it  in  a  cloth, 
and  boil  it  an  hour. 

PRUNE  TART.  Scald  some 
prunes,  take  out  the  stones  and  break 
them.  Put  the  kernels  into  a  little 
cranberry  juice,  with  the  prunes  and 
sugar;  simmer  them  together,  and 
when  cold,  make  a  tart  of  the  sweet- 
meat. 

PRUNING.  In  pruning  wall 
fruit,  care  should  be  taken  to  cut  off 
all  fresh  shoots  that  will  not  readily 
bind  to  the  wall ;  for  if  any  be  twist- 
ed or  bruised  in  the  binding,  they 
will  in  time  decay,  and  the  sap  will 
issue  from  the  place.  Vines  should 
not  be  cut  too  close  to  please  the 
eye,  as  by  that  means  they  have 
sometimes  been  rendered  barren  of 


fruit.  Two  knots  should  generally 
be  leit  on  new  shoots,  which  will 
produce  two  bunches  of  grapes, 
and  which  are  to  be  cut  off  at  the 
next  pruning.  New  branches  are  to 
be  left  every  year,  and  some  of  the 
old  ones  must  be  removed,  which  will 
increase  the  quantity  of  fruit. 

PUDDINGS.  The  only  puddings 
which  can  with  propriety  be  recom- 
mended, as  really  wholesome  diet, 
are  those  of  the  simplest  kind,  such 
as  are  seldom  met  with  except  in 
families  in  the  middle  ranks  of  life. 
The  poor  unfortunately  cannot  get 
them,  and  the  rich  prefer  those  of  a 
more  complex  kind,  of  which  the 
best  that  can  be  hoped  is,  that  they 
will  not  do  much  harm.  The  prin- 
cipal ingredients  of  common  pud- 
dings are  so  mild  and  salutary,  that 
unless  they  are  over-cooked,  or  too 
many  of  them  mixed  together,  such 
puddings  are  generally  wholesome. 
To  make  them  of  the  best  and  most 
nutricious  quality,  the  materials 
should  all  be  fresh  and  good  of  their 
kind ;  such  as,  flour  newly  ground, 
new  milk,  fresh  laid  eggs,  and  fresh 
suet.  Millet,  sago,  tapioca,  whole 
rice,  will  all  keep  a  considerable 
time,  if  put  into  a  dry  place.  When 
rice,  millet,  or  sago,  are  wanted  to 
be  used  ground,  they  had  better  be 
ground  at  home  for  the  sake  of  hav- 
ing them  fresh,  and  the  certainty  of 
having  them  pure.  Such  a  mill  as 
is  used  for  grinding  coffee,  will  grind 
them  extremely  well.  The  whites  of 
eggs  should  never  be  used  in  pud- 
dings for  children,  or  persons  of 
weak  stomachs,  or  for  those  who  are 
any  way  indisposed,  on  account  of 
their  being  indigestible.  Omitting, 
them  altogether  would  indeed  be  ii. 
tended  with  no  disadvantage.  Th«* 
yolk  of  an  egg  alone  answers  the 
same  purpose,  as  when  the  white"  '  - 
used  with  it.  To  prove  this,  let  twt, 
cups  of  batter  pudding  be  made,  one 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  only,  the 
other  with  the  yolk  and  white  toge- 
ther, and  the  result  will  be,  that  the 
o  o  2B1 


PUD 


PUD 


pudding  with  the  yolk  only  is  quite 
as  light,  if  not  lighter,  than  the  one 
with  the  whole  egg.  In  other  in- 
stances also,  of  several  kinds  of  pud- 
dings, where  the  whites  of  eggs  have 
been  totally  omitted,  without  at  all 
encreasing  the  number  of  eggs,  the 
result  has  been  the  same.  There  is 
a  species  of  economy  practised  by 
good  housewives,  of  making  com- 
positions on  purpose  to  use  up  the 
whites  of  eggs  which  have  been  left 
out  of  any  preparation  made  with 
eggs.  But  this  is  a  false  economy  ; 
for  surely  it  is  far  better  to  reject  as 
food  what  is  known  to  be  injurious, 
and  to  find  other  uses  for  it,  than  to 
make  the  human  stomach  the  recep- 
tacle for  offal.  Economy  would  be 
much  more  judiciously  exerted  in 
retrenching  superfluities,  than  exer- 
cised in  this  manner.  Two  or  three 
good  dishes  of  their  kind,  and  well 
cooked,  are  infinitely  preferable  to 
a  whole  course  of  indigestible  com- 
positions. A  soup  might  as  well  be 
made  of  cabbage  stalks  and  pea 
shell*,  as  any  preparation  of  food 
Mjith  whites  of  eggs,  when  there  is 
no  doubt  of  their  being  positively 
prejudicial.  As  cabbage  stalks  then 
go  to  the  dunghill,  and  pea  shells  to 
the  pigs,  so  let  whites  of  eggs  go  to 
the  book-binder,  or  find  some  other 
destination.  There  are  also  various 
kinds  of  fruit  that  require  to  be  used 
with  great  caution.  Currants,  rai- 
sins, prunes,  French  plums,  figs,  and 
all  kinds  of  preserves,  are  prepared 
either  by  the  heat  of  the  sua,  or  by 
cookery  to  the  full  extent  that  they 
will  bear,  and  beyond  which  any  ap- 
pHcatioft  of  heat  gives  them  a  ten- 
dency to  putridity.  They  are  there- 
fore certainly  prejudkial  to  weak 
stomachs  when  used  in  puddings, 
and  cannot  be  good  for  any  ;  though 
strong  stomachs  may  not  perceive 
an  immediate  ill  effect  from  them. 
Eaten  without  any  farther  prepara- 
tion, and  especially  with  bread,  these 
things  may  be  used  in  moderation. 
For  the  reasons  just  given,  spices 
282 


are  better  not  put  into  puddings,1;hey 
are  'already  in  a  sufficiently  high 
state  of  preparation.  The  warm  cli- 
mates in  which  they  grow,  brings 
them  to  a  state  of  far  greater  matu- 
rity than  the  general  productions  of 
our  northern  latitude.  WUefl;  they 
are  used,  it  is  better  to  add  them 
ground,  at  the  time  of  eatiitg  what 
is  to  be  seasoned,  or  put  in  the  last 
thing  before  serving  up  the  dish. 
These  are  also  better  ground  at 
home,  both  to  have  them  fresh,  and 
free  from  adulteration.  Almonds 
used  in  pud«lings  are  liable  to  the 
same  objection.  The  danger  ol" 
using  laurel  leaves  in  cooking,  caBH 
not  be  too  frequently  repeated.  Bay 
leaves,  bitter  almonds,  and  fruit  ker- 
nels,  if  not  equally  dangerous,  are 
pernicious  enough  to  make  it  very 
advisable  not  to  use  them.  Fresh 
fruits  often  become  more  unwhole- 
some from  being  cooked  in  puddings 
and  tarts,  yet  will  in  many  cases 
agree  then  with  stomachs  that  can^- 
not  take  them  raw :  but  unripe  fruits 
are  not  good,  either  dressed  or  ia 
aqy  other  state. — To  prepare  pud- 
dings in  the  best  manner,  they  should 
boil  briskly  over  a  clear  fire,  with  the 
pot  lid  partly  if  not  entirely  off^,  as 
the  access  of  fresh  air  makes  every 
thing  dress  sweeter.  As  butter  is 
generally  an  expensive  article,  drip- 
ping, nicely  prepared,  may  on  many 
occasions  be  used  as  a  substitute.  It 
will  answer  the  purpose  of  rubbing 
basins  with,  quite  as  well  as  butter, 
and  never  gives  any  unpleasant  fla- 
vour to  the  pudding.  It  is  also  very 
proper  to  dredge  a  basin  with  flour, 
after  it  is  rubbed  with  butter  or  drip- 
ping. Economy  in  eggs  is  both  ra-, 
tional  and  useful,  as  puddings  with 
a  moderate  number  of  eggs  are  more 
wholesome,  than  when  used  extra- 
vagantly or  with  profusion.  Pudding 
cloths,  and  every  utensil  in  making 
puddings,  should  be  quite  clean,  or 
the  food  cannot  be  wholesome.  The 
outside  of  a  boiled  pudding  often 
tastes  disasfreeably,  which  arises  from 


PUD 


P  U  F 


theclotli  not  being  iiicel}?  washed,  and 
kept  in  a  dry  place.  It  should  be  dipt 
in  boiling  water,  squeezed  drj,  and 
floured,when  to  be  used.  A  bread  pud- 
ding should  be  loosely  tied,  and  a  bat- 
ter pudding  tight  over.  The  water 
should  boil  quick  when  the  pudding 
is  put  in,  and  it  should  be  moved  about 
for  a  minute,  lest  the  ingredients 
should  not  mix.  Batter  pudding 
should  be  strained  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  when  all  is  mixed  :  in  others, 
the  eggs  should  be  strained  separate- 
ly. Pans  and  basins  in  which  pud- 
dings are  to  be  boiled,  should  clways 
be  buttered,  or  rubbed  with  clean 
dripping.  A  pan  of  cold  water  should 
be  prepared,  and  the  pudding  dip- 
ped in  as  soon  as  it  comes  out  of  the 
pot,  to  prevent  its  adhering  to  the 
cloth.  Good  puddings  may  be  made 
without  eggs;  but  they  must  have 
as  little  milk  as  is  sufficient  to  mix 
the  batter,  and  must  boil  three  or 
four  hours.  A  few  spoonfuls  of 
fresh  small  beer,  or  one  of  yeast, 
will  answer  instead  of  eggs.  Snow 
is  also  an  excellent  substitute  for 
eggs,  either  in  puddings  or  pan- 
cakes. Two  large  spoonfuls  will 
supply  the  place  of  one  egg,  and  the 
article  it  is  used  in  will  be  equally 
good.  This  is  a  useful  piece  of  in- 
formation, especially  as  snow  often 
falls  when  eggs  are  scarce  and  dear. 
Fresh  small  beer,  or  bottled  malt 
liquors,  will  likewise  serve  instead 
of  eggs.  The  yolks  and  whites 
beaten  long  and  separately,  make 
the  article  they  are  put  into  much 
lighter. 

PUDDING  CAKES.  Put  four 
yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs  to  a 
pint  of  milk  ;  mix  with  it  half  a  pint 
of  bread  crumbs  grated  fine,  half  a 
nutmeg,  six  ounces  of  currants 
washed  and  dried,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  beef  suet  chopped  small, 
a  little  salt,  and  flour  sufficient  to 
make  it  of  a  moderate  thickness. 
Fry  these  cakes  in  lard,  of  about 
the  usual  size  of  a  fritter. 

PUDDING  KETCHUP.      Steep 


an  ounce  of  thiii-parcd  km  on  peel, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  mace,  in  half 
a  pint  of  brandy,  or  a  pint  of  sherry, 
for  fourteen  days.  Then  strain  it, 
and  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  capil- 
laire.  This  will  keep  for  years,  and 
being  mixed  with  melted  butter,  it 
is  a  delicious  relish  to  puddings  and 
sweet  dishes. 

PUDDING  WITH  MEAT.  Make 
a  batter  with  flour,  milk,  and  eggs. 
Pour  a  little  into  the  bottom  of  a 
pudding-dish ;  then  put  seasoned 
meat  of  any  kind  into  it,^id  a  little 
shred  onion.  Pour  the  remainder 
of  the  batter  over,  and  bake  it  in  a 
slow  oven.  A  loin  of  mutton  baked 
in  batter,  being  first  cleared  of  most 
of  the  fat,  makes  a  good  dish. 

PUFFS.  They  should  be  made 
of  light  puff  crust,  rolled  out  and 
cut  into  shapes  according  to  the 
fancy.  Then  bake  them,  and  lay 
some  sweetmeat  in  the  middle.  Or 
roll  out  the  crust,  cut  it  into  pieces 
of  any  shape,  lay  sweetmeats  over 
one  half,  and  turn  the  other  half  of 
the  crust  over ;  press  them  together 
round  the  edge,  and  bake  them. 

PUFF  CRUST.  Take  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  flour,  put  it  upon  a 
pie  board  with  a  little  salt,  and  mix 
in  gradually  just  water  sufficient  to 
make  it  into  a  paste,  taking  care 
that  it  be  neither  too  thin  nor  too 
stiff.  Mould  it  lightly  together,  and 
let  it  lie  for  two  hours  before  it  is 
finished.  Roll  out  the  paste,  put  a 
pound  of  butter  into  the  middle  of 
it,  fold  the  two  ends  of  the  paste 
over  it,  and  roll  it  out ;  then  fold 
it  together,  and  roll  it  out  again. 
Repeat  this  six  times  in  the  winter, 
and  five  in  the  summer.  It  shouUI 
be  rolled  rather  less  than  half  an 
inch  in  thickness,  dusting  a  little 
flour  lightly  over  and  under  it,  to 
prevent  its  sticking  to  the  rolling- 
pin.  When  finished,  roll  it  out  for 
use  as  occasion  requires.  This 
makes  a  very  nice  and  delicate  crust. 
— Another.  To  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  flour,  allow  a  pound  of  butter, 
2«3 


P  UI 


r  u  N 


and  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of 
salt.  Put  the  flour  on  a  clean  pie 
board,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle, 
and  put  in  the  salt  with  the  butter 
cut  into  small  pieces.  Pour  in  the 
water  carefully,  as  it  is  of  g^reat 
importance  that  the  crust  should 
not  be  made  too  thin  ;  there  should 
only  be  water  enough  just  to  make 
it  hold  well  together,  and  to  roll 
it  out  smooth.  Work  the  butter 
and  water  up  well  together  with 
the  hand,  and  then  by  degrees  mix 
in  the  flour.  When  the  flour  is  all 
mixed  in,  mould  the  paste  till  it  is 
quite  smooth  and  free  from  lumps, 
and  then  let  it  lie  two  hours  before 
it  be  used.  This  is  a  very  nice  crust 
for  putting  round  the  dish  for  baked 
puddings,  tarts,  or  pies. 

PUFF  PASTE.  Puff's  may  be 
made  of  any  sor^  of  fruit,  but  it 
should  be  prepared  first  with  su- 
gar. To  make  a  rich  paste,  weigh 
an  equal  quantity  of  butter  with  as 
much  fine  flour  as  is  necessary. 
Mix  a  little  of  the  former  with  the 
latter,  and  wet  it  with  as  little  water 
as  will  make  it  into  a  stifle  paste. 
Roll  it  out,  and  put  all  the  butter 
over  it  in  slices ;  turn  in  the  ends, 
and  roll  it  thin.  Do  this  twice,  and 
tough  it  no  more  than  can  be  avoid- 
ed. The  butter  may  be  added  at 
two  difl'erent  times ;  and  to  those 
who  are  not  accustomed  to  make 
paste,  it  may  be  better  to  do  so. 
The  oven  must  be  rather  quicker 
than  for  a  short  crust. — A  less  rich 
paste  may  be  made  of  a  pound  of 
flour,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  rubbed  together.  Mix  it 
into  a  paste  with  a  little  water,  and 
an  egg  well  beaten  ;  of  the  former 
as  little  as  will  suffice,  or  the  paste 
will  be  tough.  Roll  it  out,  and  fold 
it  three  or  four  times.  Or  rub  ex- 
tremely fine,  six  ounces  of  butter 
in  one  pound  of  dried  flour,  with 
a  spoonful  of  white  sugar.  Work 
up  the  whole  into  a  stiflf  paste,  with 
as  little  hot  water  as  possible. 

PUITS  D'  AMOUR.     Cut  a  fine 
284 


rich  puff*  paste  rolled  thin,  with  tin 
shapes  made  on  purpose,  one  size 
less  than  another,  in  a  pyramidal 
form,  and  lay  them  so.  Then  bake 
in  a  moderate  form,  that  the  paste 
may  be  done  sufficiently,  but  very 
pale.  Lay  diflferent  coloured  sweet- 
meats on  the  edges. 

PULLED  CHICKENS.  Take  off* 
the  skin,  and  pull  the  flesh  ofi^  the 
bones  of  a  cold  fowl,  in  large  pieces. 
Dredge  it  with  flour,  and  fry  it  of 
a  nice  brown  in  butter.  Drain  the 
butter  from  it,  simmer  the  flesh  in 
a  good  well-seasoned  gravy,  thick- 
ened with  a  little  butter  and  flour, 
adding  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. — 
Another  way.  Cut  off"  the  legs,  and 
the  whole  back,  of  an  underdone 
chicken.  Pull  all  the  white  part 
into  little  flakes  free  from  skin,  toss 
it  up  with  a  little  cream  thickened 
with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
half  a  blade  of  powdered  mace, 
some  white  pepper,  salt,  and  the 
squeeze  of  a  lemon.  Cut  oflf  the 
neck  end  of  the  chicken,  broil  the 
back  and  sidesmen  in  one  piece, 
and  the  two  legs  seasoned.  Put  the 
hash  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  with 
the  back  on  it,  and  the  two  legs  at 
the  end. 

PULLED  TURKEY.  Divide  the 
meat  of  the  breast  by  pulling  instead 
of  cutting.  Then  warm  in  a  spoon- 
ful or  two  of  white  gravy,  and  a  lit- 
tle cream,  grated  nutmeg,  salt,  and 
a  little  flour  and  butter,  but  do  not 
let  it  boil.  The  leg  should  be  sea- 
soned, scored,  and  broiled,  and  put 
into  the  dish  with  the  above  round 
it.  Cold  chicken  may  be  treated 
in  the  same  manner. 

PUNCH.  In  preparing  this  fa- 
vourite liquor,  it  is  impossible  to 
take  too  much  pains  in  the  process 
of  mixing,  that  all  the  diff'erent  ar- 
ticles may  be  thoroughly  incorpo- 
rated together.  Take  then  two  large 
fresh  lemons  with  rough  skins,  quite 
ripe,  and  some  lumps  of  double- 
refined  sugar.  Rub  the  sugar  over 
the  lemons,  till  it  has  absorbed  all 


PUN 


PUR 


the  yellow  part  of  the  rinds.  Put 
these  lumps  into  a  bowl,  and  as  much 
more  as  the  juice  of  the  lemons  may 
be  supposed  to  require  :  no  certain 
weight  or  quantity  can  be  mention- 
ed, as  the  acidity  of  a  lemon  cannot 
be  known  till  tried,  and  therefore 
this  must  be  determined  by  the  taste. 
Then  squeeze  the  lemon  juice  upon 
the  sugar,  and  with  a  bruiser  press 
the  sugar  and  the  juice  particularly 
well  together,  for  a  great  deal  of  the 
richness  and  fine  flavour  of  the  punch 
depends  on  this  rubbing  and  mixing 
being  thoroughly  performed.  Having 
well  incorporated  the  juice  and  the 
sugar,  mix  it  up  with  boiling  soft 
water,  and  let  it  stand  a  little  to  cool. 
When  this  mixture,  which  is  now 
called  the  sherbet,  is  made  of  a  plea- 
sant flavour,  take  equal  quantities 
of  rum  and  brandy  and  put  into  it, 
mixing  the  whole  well  together.  The 
quantity  of  liquor  must  be  according 
to  taste  :  two  good  lemons  are  gene- 
rally enough  to  make  four  quarts  of 
punch,  including  a  quart  of  liquor, 
with  half  a  pound  of  sugar  :  but  this 
depends  much  on  taste,  and  on  the 
strength  of  the  spirit.  As  the  pulp 
of  the  lemon  is  disagreeable  to  some 
persons,  the  sherbet  may  be  strained 
before  the  liquor  is  put  in.  Some 
strain  the  lemon  before  they  put  it 
to  the  sugar,  which  is  improper  ;  as 
when  the  pulp  and  sugar  are  well 
mixed  together,  it  adds  much  to  the 
richness  of  the  punch.  When  only 
rum  is  used,  about  half  a  pint  of 
porter  will  soften  the  punch ;  and 
even  when  both  rum  and  brandy  are 
used,  the  porter  gives  a  richness, 
and  also  a  very  pleasant  flavour.  A 
shorter  way  is  to  keep  ready  pre- 
pared a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  citric 
or  crystallized  lemon  acid,  pounded 
with  a  few  drops  of  the  essence  of 


lemon  peel,  gradually  mixed  with  a 
pint  of  clarified  syrup  or  capillaire. 
Brandy  or  rum  flavoured  with  this 
mixture,  will  produce  good  punch  in 
a  minute. 

PUNCH  ROYAL.  Take  thirty 
Seville  oranges  and  thirty  lemons 
quite  sound,  pare  them  very  thin, 
and  put  the  parings  into  an  earthen 
pan,  with  as  much  rum  or  brandy  as 
will  cover  them.  Take  ten  gallons 
of  water,  and  twelve  pounds  of  lump 
sugar,  and  boil  them.  When  nearly 
cold,  put  in  the  whites  of  thirty  eggs 
well  beaten,  stir  it  and  boil  it  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour,  then  strain  it  through 
a  hair  sieve  into  an  earthen  pan,  and 
let  it  stand  till  the  next  day.  Then 
put  it  into  a  cask,  strain  the  spirit 
from  the  parings;  and  add  as  much 
more  as  will  make  it  up  five  gallons. 
Put  it  into  the  cask  with  five  quarts 
of  Seville  orange  juice,  and  three 
quarts  of  lemon  juice.  Stir  it  all  to- 
gether with  a  cleft  stick,  and  repeat 
the  same  once  a  day  for  three  suc- 
cessive days ;  then  stop  it  down 
close,  and  in  six  weeks  it  will  be  fit 
to  drink. 

PURPLE  GLOVES.  To  dye 
white  gloves  of  a  beautiful  purple, 
boil  four  ounces  of  logwood,  and 
two  ounces  of  roche  alum,  in  three 
pints  of  soft  water,  till  half  wasted'. 
Strain  off*  the  liquid,  and  let  it  stand 
to  be  cold.  Mend  the  gloves  neatly, 
brush  them  over  with  the  dye,  and 
when  dry  repeat  it.  Twice  is  suf- 
ficient, unless  the  colour  is  to  be  very 
dark.  When  quite  dry,  rub  off*  the 
loose  dye  with  a  coarse  cloth.  Beat 
up  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  with 
a  sponge  rub  it  over  the  leather.  The 
dye  will  stain  the  hands,  but  wetting 
them  with  vinegar  will  take  it  off^  be- 
fore they  are  washed. 

285 


QUE 


Q  U  E 


Q 


Quails.  These  are  dressed  in 
the  same  manner  as  snipe$>  and  wood- 
cocks. They  should  be  roasted 
without  drawing,  served  on  toast, 
and  eaten  with  butter  only. 

QUAKING  PUDDING.  Scald 
a  quart  of  cream  ;  when  almost 
cold,  put  to  it  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
a  spoonful  and  a  half  of  flour,  with 
nutmeg  and  sugar.  Tie  it  close  in 
a  buttered  cloth,  boil  it  an  hour, 
and  turn  it  out  carefully,  without 
cracking  it.  Serve  it  with  melted 
butter,  a  little  wine,  and  su2:ar. 

QUARTER  OF  LAMB.^  A  fore- 
quarter  may  either  be  roasted  whole, 
or  ia  separate  parts.  If  left  to  be 
cold,  chopped  parsley  should  be 
sprinkled  over  it.  The  neck  and 
breast  together  are  called  a  scoven. 

QUEEN  CAKES.  Mix  a  pound 
of  dried  flour,  a  pound  of  sifted  su- 
gar, and  a  pound  of  currants,  pick- 
ed and  cleaned.  Wash  a  pound  of 
butter  in  rose  water,  beat  it  well, 
and  mix  with  it  eight  eggs,  yolks 
and  whites  beaten  separately.  Put 
in  the  dry  ingredients  by  deji^rees, 
beat  the  whole  an  hour,  butter  little 
tins,  teacups  or  saucers,  fill  them 
half  full  of  batter,  and  bake  them. 
Sift  over  them  a  little  fine  sugar, 
just  before  they  are  put  into  the 
oven. — Another  way.  Beat  eight 
ounces  of  butter,  and  mix  it  with 
two  eggs,  well  beaten  and  strained. 
Mix  eight  ounces  of  dried  flour,  the 
same  of  lump  sugar,  and  the  grated 
rind  of  a  lemon.  Put  the  whole  to- 
gether, and  beat  it  full  half  an  hour 
with  a  silver  spoon.  Butter  small 
pattipans,  half  fill  them,  and  bake 
twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

QUEEN  ANNE'S  BISCUITS. 
A  pound  of  flour  well  dried,  half  a 
pound  of  fine  sugar  powdered  and 
sifted,  a  pound  of  currants  well 
washed  and  picked,  and  half  a  pound 
of  butter.  Rub  the  butter  into  the 
28G 


flour,  then  mix  in  the  sugar  and  cur- 
rants ;  add  ten  spoonfuls  of  cream, 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  spoon- 
fuls of  sack,  and  a  little  mace  finely 
pounded.  When  the  paste  is  well 
worked  up,  set  it  in  a  dish  before 
the  fire  till  it  be  thoroughly  warm. 
Make  it  up  into  cakes,  place  them 
on  a  tin  well  buttered,  prick  them 
full  of  holes  on  the  top,  and  bake 
them  in  a  quick  oven. 

QUEEN  ANNE'S  KITCHEN. 
The  economy  of  the  royal  kitchen  a 
century  ago,  though  not  equal  per- 
haps to  the  refinement  of  modern 
times,  was  sufficiently  sumptuous  ; 
and  what  it  wanted  in  delicacies, 
was  abundantly  compensated  by  a 
profusion  of  more  substantial  dishes 
of  truly  English  fare.  The  following 
are  only  a  few  specimens  of  the  stile 
of  cooking  approved  by  queen  Anne, 
sufficient  to  show  in  what  manner 
royalty  was  provided  for  in  the  days 
of  our  forefathers.  Under  the  ar- 
ticle of  Roasting,  a  few  particulars 
will  occur.  When  a  turkey,  capon, 
or  fowl  was  to  be  dressed,  it  was 
laid  down  to  the  fire,  at  a  proper 
distance,  till  it  became  thoroughly 
hot.  It  was  then  basted  all  over 
with  fresh  butter,  and  afterwards 
dredged  thinly  with  flour.  The  heat 
of  the  fire  converted  this  into  a  thin 
crust,  to  keep  in  the  gravy  ;  and  no 
more  basting  was  allowed  till  the 
roasting  was  nearly  done,  when  it 
was  once  more  basted  all  over  with 
butter.  As  the  meat  began  to  brown, 
it  was  sprinkled  a  little  with  large 
salt,  and  the  outside  finished  with  a 
fine  brown.  It  was  sometimes  the 
custom  to  baste  such  meats  with  the 
yolks  of  fresh  eggs  beaten  thin, 
which  was  continued  during  the  time 
of  roasting.  The  following  direc- 
tions were  given  for  roast  Veal. 
Chop  some  parsley  and  thyme  very 
small.     Beat  up  the  yolks  of  five  or 


QUE 


QUE 


six  eggs  with  some  cream,  add  the 
chopped  herbs,  some  grated  bread, 
a  few  cloves,  a  little  mace  and  nut- 
meg, some  currants  and  sugar.  Mix 
these  well  together,  raise  the  skin 
of  the  breast  of  veal,  put  the  stuffing 
under  it,  and  skewer  it  down  close. 
Lay  the  veal  before  the  fire,  and 
baste  it  with  butter.  When  suf- 
ficiently roasted,  squeeze  on  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  serve  it  up. 
For  roast  Pig,  chop  up  some  sage, 
and  sow  it  up  in  the  belly  of  the 
pig.  Roast  and  baste  it  with  butter, 
sprinkled  with  a  little  salt.  When 
roasted  fine  and  crisp,  serve  it  upon 
a  sauce  made  of  chopped  sage  and 
currants,  well  boiled  in  vinegar  and 
water,  the  gravy  and  brains  of  the 
pig,  a  little  grated  bread,  some  bar- 
berries and  sugar,  all  well  mixed  to- 
gether, and  heated  over  the  fire. 
Another  way.  Fill  the  belly  of  the 
pig  with  a  pudding  made  of  grated 
bread,  a  httle  minced  beef  suet,  the 
yolks  of  two  or  three  raw  eggs, 
three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  good 
cream,  and  a  little  salt.  Sow  it  up 
in  the  belly  of  the  pig,  lay  it  down 
to  roast,  and  baste  it  with  yolks  of 
eggs  beat  thin.  A  few  minutes  be- 
fore it  is  taken  up,  squeeze  on  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  strew  it  over 
with  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  nutmeg-, 
ginger,  and  salt.  Make  a  sauce 
with  vinegar,  butter,  and  the  yolks 
of  eggs  boiled  hard  and  minced. 
Boil  the  whole  together,  with  the 
gravy  of  the  pig,  and  then  serve  it 
up  in  this  sauce.  When  a  Hare  is 
to  be  dressed,  wash  it  well,  and  dry 
it  in  a  cloth.  Sow  up  a  pudding  in 
the  belly,  truss  the  hare  as  if  it  were 
running,  and  roast  it.  Make  a  sauce 
of  claret  wine,  grated  bread,  sugar, 
ginger,  barberries,  and  butter,  boil- 
ed all  together,  and  serve  it  up  with 
the  hare. — Boiled  dishes  were  pre- 
pared in  the  following  manner.  If 
a  capon,  pullet,  or  chicken,  boil  it 
in  good  mutton  broth.  Put  in  some 
naace,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  lit- 
tle sage,   spinage,  marigold  leaves 


and  flowers,  white  or  green  endive, 
borage,  bugloss,  parsley,  and  sor- 
rel. Serve  it  up  on  sippets  of  white 
bread.  If  to  be  dressed  with  cauli- 
flower, cut  the  vegetable  into  small 
heads,  with  about  an  inch  and  a  half 
of  stalk  to  them.  Boil  them  in  milk 
with  a  little  mace,  till  they  are  very 
tender,  and  beat  up  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  sack.  Melt  some  butter  very 
thick,  with  a  little  vinegar  and  sliced 
lemon.  Pour  this  and  the  eggs  to 
and  fro  till  they  are  well  mixed,  then 
take  the  cauliflower  out  of  the  milk, 
and  put  it  into  the  sauce.  Having 
boiled  the  chicken  tender,  serve  it 
upon  sippets  of  white  bread,  finely 
carved,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 
Pigeons  are  to  be  put  into  a  skillet 
with  some  strong  broth,  or  spring 
water.  Boil  and  skim  them,  put  in 
some  mace,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
some  white  endive,  marigold  flow- 
ers, and  salt.  When  finely  boiled, 
serve  them  upon  sippets  of  white 
bread,  and  garnish  the  dish  with 
mace  and  white  endive.  Small  birds, 
such  as  woodcocks,  snipes,  black- 
birds, thrushes,  fieldfares,  rails, 
quails,  wheatears,  larks,  martins, 
and  sparrows,  are  to  be  boiled  in 
strong  broth,  or  in  salt  and  water. 
When  boiled,  take  out  the  trails,  and 
chop  them  and  the  livers  small.  Add 
some  crumb  of  grated  bread,  a  little 
of  the  liquor  in  which  the  birds 
were  boiled,  some  mace,  and  stew 
them  all  together  in  some  gravy. 
Beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  with 
a  little  white  wine  vinegar  and  grated 
nutmeg  ;  and  when  ready  to  serve, 
stir  these  into  the  sauce  with  a  small 
piece  of  butter.  Dish  up  the  birds 
upon  sippets  of  white  bread,  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  them  with  some 
capers,  lemon  finely  minced,  and 
barberries,  or  pickled  grapes,  whole. 
Caorots  and  onions  boiled  together 
in  broth,  separately  from  the  sauce, 
are  sometimes  added  to  it.  W^hen 
no  onion  is  put  in,  rub  the  bottom 
of  the  dish  witb  a  clove  or  two  of 
287 


QUE 


QUI 


garlic.  A  Goose,  before  it  is  boil- 
ed, is  to  be  salted  for  a  day  or  two. 
Steep  some  oatmeal  in  warm  milk, 
or  some  other  liquor,  and  mix  it 
with  some  shred  beef  suet,  minced 
apples  and  onions,  sweet  htrbs 
chopped,  and  a  seasoning  of  cloves, 
mace,  and  pepper.  Fill  the  belly 
of  the  goose  with  this  stuffing,  and 
tie  it  close  at  the  neck  and  vent. 
Boil  and  serve  it  on  slices  of  bread, 
dipped  in  any  kind  of  broth,  with 
cauliflowers,  cabbage,  turnips,  and 
barberries.  Pour  melted  butter  over 
it.  A  Wild  Duck,  being  first  drawn 
and  trussed,  must  be  parboiled, 
and  then  half  roasted.  Having 
carved  it,  put  the  gravy  into  a  pip- 
kin with  plenty  of  onion  and  pars- 
ley, sliced  ginger,  mace,  some  wash- 
ed currants,  barberries,  and  a  quart 
of  claret.  Boil  all  together,  skim 
it  clean,  add  some  butter  and  sugar, 
and  serve  up  the  duck  with  the 
sauce  poured  over  it.  A  Rabbit  is 
to  be  boiled  in  salt  and  water. 
Chop  some  parsley  and  thyme  to- 
gether, a  handful  of  each,  and  boil 
it  in  a  little  of  the  liquor  in  which 
fhe  rabbit  is  boiling.  Then  add  to 
it  three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  verjuice, 
a  piece  of  butter,  and  two  or  three 
eggs  well  beaten.  Stir  the  whole 
together,  thicken  it  over  the  fire, 
and  serve  up  the  rabbit  with  this 
sauce  poured  over  it. — In  the  royal 
kitchen,  a  Florentine  Pie  was  made 
of  a  leg  of  veal  or  mutton,  cut  into 
thin  slices,  and  seasoned  with  sweet 
marjoram,  thyme,  savory,  parsley, 
rosemary,  an  onion  and  a  clove  of 
garlic,  all  cut  small.  To  these  were 
added,  nutmeg  and  pepper  beaten 
fine,  some  grated  manthet,  a  little 
salt,  and  the  yolks  of  three  or  four 
raw  eggs,  to  mix  and  make  them 
adhere  together.  The  meat  is  laid 
in  a  dish,  with  a  crust  under  it,  in- 
termixed with  some  thin  slice*  of 
streaked  bacon.  A  few  bay  leaves  and 
some  oyster  liquor  are  added,  the 
dish  covered  with  a  crust,  and  baked. 
For  a  Veal  Pie,  cut  a  fillet  into  pieces, 
288 


about  the  size  of  walnuts,  and  sea- 
son them  with  cinnamon,  ginger, 
sugar,  and  salt.  Use  a  raised  crust 
or  dish,  at  pleasure,  lay  in  the  meat 
with  roasted  chesnuts  peeled  and 
quartered,  dates  sliced,  and  the 
marrow  from  two  beef  bones.  Put 
on  the  top  crust,  bake  the  pie ;  and 
when  done,  serve  it  up  with  the  fol- 
lowing sauce  poured  into  it.  Beat- 
up  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  some 
white  wine,  cinnamon,  ginger,  and 
sugar.  Heat  it  over  the  fire  till  it 
thickens  a  little,  taking  care  not  to 
let  the  egg  curdle.  Sauce  for  a  loin 
of  veal  was  made  of  all  kinds  of 
sweet  herbs,  with  the  yolks  of  two 
or  three  hard  eggs  minced  very  fine. 
They  were  then  boiled  up  with  some 
currants,  a  little  grated  bread, 
pounded  cinnamon,  sugar,  and  two 
whole  cloves.  The  sauce  was  pour- 
ed into  the  dish  intended  for  the 
veal,  with  two  or  three  slices  of  an 
orange.  A  Cod's  Head  was  directed 
to  be  dressed  in  the  following  man- 
ner. Cut  the  head  large,  and  a  go;)(' 
piece  of  the  shoulder  with  it,  and 
boil  it  in  salt  and  water.  Have  pre- 
pared a  quart  of  cockles,  with  the 
shelled  meat  of  two  or  three  crabs. 
Put  these  into  a  pipkin  with  nearly 
half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  two  onions,  a  little 
mace,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and 
some  oyster  liquor.  Boil  these  till 
the  liquor  is  wasted,  then  add  three 
or  four  large  spoonfuls  of  melted 
butter.  Drain  the  cod's  head  well 
over  a  chaffing-dish  of  coals,  and 
serve  it  up  with  the  above  sauce, 
taking  out  the  bunch  of  herbs,  and 
adding  more  butter,  if  required. 
Serve  up  the  liver  and  roe  on  the 
sides  of  the  dish. 

QUICK  HEDGES.  A  great  va- 
riety of  difl'erent  sorts  of  plants  is 
employed  in  forming  and  construct- 
ing these  hedges,  as  those  of  the 
hawthorn,  the  black-thorn,  the  crab- 
tree,  the  hazel,  the  willow,  the 
beech,  the  elder,  the  poplar,  the 
alder,  and  several  other  kinds,  ac- 


QUI 


QUI 


cording  to  particular  circumstances 
and  situations.  Whatever  sort  of 
plants  may  be  employed  for  this 
purpose,  the  work  should  constantly 
be  well  performed  in  the  first  in- 
stance, and  the  hedges  and  plants 
be  afterwards  kept  in  due  order  and 
regularity  by  suitable  pruning,  cut- 
ting in,  and  other  proper  manage- 
ment. Excellent  hawthorn  hedges 
are  raised  by  planting  one  row  only 
at  six  inches  asunder,  rather  than 
two  rows  nine  inches  or  a  foot  apart. 
Those  planted  six  inches  apart  do 
not  require  to  be  cut  down  to  thick- 
en them  at  the  bottom,  and  will 
form  a  complete  protection  against 
hogs,  and  in  other  respects  form  a 
beautiful  and  effectual  fence. 

QUICKSILVER,  when  rubbed 
down  and  blended  with  unctuous 
matters,  forms  a  sort  of  ointment, 
which  is  useful  in  the  curing  of  dif- 
ferent diseases  of  the  skin,  as  well 
as  in  destroying  lice  and  other  ver- 
min that  infest  animals  of  different 
kinds,  which  form  the  live  stock  of 
the  farmer.  It  has  also  been  found 
useful  in  its  crude  state  in  destroying 
insects  on  fruit  trees.  Take  a  small 
awl,  and  pierce  sloping,  through  the 
rind,  and  into  part  of  the  wood  of 
the  branch,  but  not  to  the  heart  or 
pith  of  it ;  and  pour  in  a  small  drop 
or  two  of  the  quicksilver,  and  stop  ' 
it  up  with  a  small  wooden  plug 
made  to  fit  the  orifice,  and  the  in- 
sects will  drop  off  from  that  very 
branch  the  next  day  ;  and  in  a  day 
or  two  more,  from  the  other  branches 
of  the  trees  without  any  other  punc- 
ture, and  the  tree  will  continue  in 
full  vigour  and  thrive  well  through 
the  sunamer.  Honeysuckles  and 
other  shrubs  may  be  cleared  of  in- 
sects, by  scraping  away  the  top  of 
the  ground  with  a  trowel,  and  run- 
ning an  awl  in  the  same  sloping 
manner,  into  the  main  stem  just 
above  the  roots ;  but  with  the  same 
caution  as  above,  not  quite  to  the 
inner  pith,  and  then  applying  the 
(No.  13.) 


quicksilver.     The  insects  will  dtop 
off  the  day  after  the  experiment, 

QUILLS.  To  harden  and  prepare 
them  for  use,  dip  them  for  a  minute 
in  some  boiling  water  in  which  alum 
has  been  dissolved  ;  or  thrust  them 
into  hot  ashes  till  they  become  soft^ 
and  afterwards  press  and  scrape 
them  with  the  back  of  a  knife.  When 
they  are  to  be  clarified,  the  barrels 
must  be  scraped  and  cut  at  the  end, 
and  then  put  into  boiling  water  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  with  a  quan- 
tity of  alum  and  salt.  Afterwards 
they  are  dried  in  an  oven,  or  in  a 
pan  of  hot  sand. 

QUINS  FISH  SAUCE.  Half  a 
pint  of  walnut  pickle,  the  same  of 
mushroom  pickle,  six  anchovies 
pounded,  six  anchovies  whole,  and 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  cayenne. 
Shake  it  up  well,  when  it  is  to  be 
used. 

QUINCE.  The  fruit  of  the  quince  , 
is  astringent  and  stomachic ;  and  its 
expressed  juice,  in  small 'quantities, 
as  a  spoonful  or  two,  is  of  consider- 
able service  in  nausea,  vomitings, 
eructations,  &c.  Quince  trees  are 
very  apt  to  have  rough  bark,  and  to 
be  bark-bound;  in  these  cases  it 
will  be  necessary  to  shave  off  the 
rough  bark  with  a  draw-knife,  and 
to  scarify  them  when  bark-bound, 
brushing  them  over  with  the  com- 
position. It  is  also  advised  to  plant 
quince  trees  at  a  proper  distance 
from  apple  and  pears,  as  bees  and 
the  wind  may  mix  the  farina,  and 
occasion  the  apples  and  pears  to 
degenerate.  These  trees  may  be 
raised  from  the  kernels  of  the  fruit 
sown  in  autumn  ;  but  there  is  no 
depending  on  having  the  same  sort 
of  good  fruit  from  seedlings,  nor  will  ^ 
they  soon  become  bearers.  But  the 
several  varieties  may  be  continued 
the  jame  by  cuttings  and  layers ; 
also^y  suckers  from  such  trees  as 
grow  upon  their  own  roots,  and  like- 
wise be  increased  by  grafting  and 
budding  upon  their  own  pear-stocks 

p  p  289 


our 


QUI 


raised  from  the  kernels  in  the  same 
manner  as  for  apples.  Standard 
quinces,  designed  as  fruit  trees,  may 
be  stationed  in  the  garden  or  orchard, 
and  some  by  the  sides  of  any  wa- 
ter, pond,  watery  ditch,  &c.  as  they 
delight  in  moisture. 

QUINCE  JELLY.  When  quinces 
have  been  boiled  for  marmalade, 
take  the  first  liquor  and  pass  it 
through  a  jelly  bag.  To  every  pint 
allow  a  pound  of  fine  loaf  sugar,  and 
boil  it  till  it  is  quite  clear  and  comes 
to  a  jelly.  The  quince  seeds  should 
be  tied  in  a  piece  of  muslin,  and 
boiled  in  it. 

QUINCE  MARMALADE.  Pare 
and  quarter  some  quince^,  and  weigh 
an  equal  quantity  of  sugar.  To  four 
pounds  of  the  latter  put  a  quart  of 
water,  boil  and  skim  it  well,  by  the 
time  the  quinces  are  prepared.  Lay 
the  fruit  in  a  stone  jar,  with  a  tea- 
cupful  of  water  at  the  bottom,  and 
pack  them  with  a  little  sugar  strew- 
ed between.  Cover  the  jar  close, 
set  it  in  a  cool  oven,  or  on  a  stove, 
and  let  the  quinces  soften  till  they 
become  red.  Then  pour  the  syrup 
and  a  quart  of  quince  juice  into  a 
preserving  pan,  and  boil  all  together 
till  the  marmalade  be  completed, 
breaking  the  lumps  of  fruit  with  the 
ladle  ;  otherwise  the  fruit  is  so  hard, 
that  it  will  require  a  great  deal  of 
time.  Stewing  quinces  in  a  jar, 
and  then  squeezing  them  through  a 
cheese  cloth,  is  the  best  method  of 
obtaining  the  juice ;  and  in  this  case 
the  cloth  should  first  be  dipped  in 
boiling  water,  and  then  wrung  out. 

QUINCE  PUDDING.  Scald  six 
large  quinces  very  tender,  pare  off 
the  thin  rind,  and  scrape  them  to  a 
pulp.  Add  powdered  sugar  enough 
to  make  them  very  sweet,  and  a  lit- 
tle pounded  ginger  and  cinnamon. 
Beat  up  the  yolks  of  four  egg^jph^ith 
some  salt,  and  stir  in  a  pint  of  cream. 
Mix  these  with  the  quince,  and  bake 
it  in  a  dish,  with  a  puff  crust  round 
the  edge.  In  a  moderate  oven,  three 
290 


quarters  of  an  hour  will  be  sufficient. 
Sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  pud- 
ding before  it  is  sent  to  table. 

QUINCE  WINE.  Gather  the 
quinces  in  a  dry  day,  when  they  are 
tolerably  ripe  ;  rub  off  the  down  with 
a  linen  cloth,  and  lay  them  in  hay  or 
straw  for  ten  days  to  perspire.  Cut 
them  in  quarters,  take  out  the  cores, 
and  bruise  them  well  in  a  mashing 
tub  with  a  wooden  pestle.  Squeeze 
out  the  liquid  part  by  degrees,  by 
pressing  them  in  a  hair  bag  in  a 
cider  press.  Strain  the  liquor  through 
a  fine  sieve,  then  warm  it  gently  over 
a  fire,  and  skim  it,  but  do  not  suffer 
it  to  boil.  Now  sprinkle  into  it 
some  loaf  sugar  reduced  to  powder, 
and  boil  a  dozen  or  fourteen  quinces 
thinly  sliced,  in  a  gallon  of  water 
mixed  with  a  quart  of  white  wine. 
Add  two  pounds  of  fine  sugar,  strain 
off  the  liquor,  and  mingle  it  with 
the  natural  juice  of  the  quinces. 
Put  this  into  a  cask,  but  do  not  fill 
it,  and  mix  them  well  together.  Let 
it  stand  to  settle,  put  in  two  or  three 
whites  of  eggs,  and  draw  it  oflT.  If 
it  be  not  sweet  enough,  add  more 
sugar,  and  a  quart  of  the  best 
malmsey.  To  make  it  still  better, 
boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  stone 
raisins,  and  half  an  ounce  of  cinna- 
mon bark,  in  a  quart  of  the  liquor, 
till  a  third  part  is  reduced.  Then 
strain  it,  and  put  it  into  the  cask 
when  the  wine  is  fermenting. 

QUINCES  PRESERVED.  Wipe 
clean  a  quantity  of  golden  pippins, 
not  pared  but  sliced,  and  put  them 
into  two  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
Boil  them  very  quick,  and  closely 
covered,  till  the  water  is  reduced  to 
a  thick  jelly,  and  then  scald  the 
quinces,  either  whole  or  cut  in 
halves.  To  every  pint  of  pippin  jelly 
add  a  pound  of  the  finest  sugar,  boil 
and  skim  it  clear.  Put  those  quinces 
that  are  to  be  done  whole  into  the 
syrup  at  once,  and  let  it  boil  very 
fast ;  and  those  that  are  to  be  in 
halves  bv  themselves.  Skim  it  care- 


R  A  B 


R  A  B 


fully,  and  when  the  fruit  is  clear, 
put  some  of  the  syrup  into  a  glass, 
to  try  whether  it  jellies,  before  tak- 
ing it  off  the  fire.  A  pound  of 
quinces  is  to  be  allowed  to  a  pound 
of  sugar,  and  a  pound  of  jelly  al- 
ready boiled  with  the  sugar. 

QUINSEY.  For  a  quinsey,  or 
inflammation  of  the  throat,  make  a 
volatile  liniment,  by  shaking  toge- 


ther an  ounce  of  Florence  oil,  and 
half  an  ounce  of  the  spirit  of  harts- 
horn ;  or  an  equal  quantity  of  each, 
if  the  patient  be  able  to  bear  it. 
Moisten  a  piece  of  flannel  with  the 
liniment,  and  apply  it  to  the  throat 
every  four  or  five  hours.  After 
bleeding,  it  will  seldom  fail  to  lessen 
or  carry  off  the  complaint. 


R, 


Rabbits,  wild  ones  have  the 
finest  flavour,  and  are  by  far  the 
best.  Tame  rabbits  are  scarcely 
eatable,  unless  kept  delicately  clean. 
The  doe  brings  forth  every  month, 
and  must  be  allowed  to  go  with  the 
buck  as  soon  as  she  has  kindled. 
The  sweetest  hay,  oats,  beans,  sow- 
thistle,  parsley,  carrot  tops,  cab- 
bage leaves,  and  bran,  should  be 
given  to  the  rabbits,  fresh  and  fresh. 
If  not  carefully  attended,  their  own 
stench  will  destroy  them,  and  be 
very  unwholesome  to  those  who  live 
near  them.  Constant  care  is  requi- 
site to  prevent  thi^  inconvenience. 
— When  rabbits  are  to  be  dressed, 
they  may  have  gravy  and  stufting 
like  hare ;  or  they  may  be  larded, 
and  roasted  without  stufiing.  For 
the  manner  of  trussing  a  rabbit, 
either  for  roasting  or  boiling,  see 
the  Plate.  If  boiled,  it  should  be 
smothered  with  onion  sauce,  the 
butter  to  be  melted  with  milk  in- 
stead of  water.  If  fried  in  joints, 
it  must  be  dressed  with  dried  or 
fried  parsley,  and  liver  sauce  made 
for  it,  the  same  as  for  roasting. 
Chop  up  the  liver  with  parsley,  and 
put  it  into  melted  butter,  with  pep- 
per and  salt.  If  fricasseed,  the 
same  as  for  chickens.  Young  rab- 
bits are  good  in  a  pie,  with  force- 
meat as  for  chicken  pie. — When 
rabbits  areto  be  purchased  for  cook- 
ing, the   follov/ing  things  must  be 


observed.  If  the  claws  are  blunt 
and  rugged,  the  ears  dry  and  tough, 
and  the  haunch  thick,  it  is  old.  But 
if  the  claws  are  smooth  and  sharp, 
the  ears  easily  tear,  and  the  cleft  in 
the  lip  is  not  much  spread,  it  is 
young.  If  fresh  and  newly  killed, 
the  body  will  be  stiff",  and  in  hares 
the  flesh  is  pale.  They  keep  a  good 
while  by  proper  care,  and  are  best 
when  rather  beginning  to  turn,  it 
the  inside  is  preserved  from  being 
musty.  To  distinguish  a  real  leveret 
from  a  hare,  a  knob  or  small  bone 
will  be  discovered  near  the  foot  on 

its  fore  leg. Tame  rabbits  may 

be  bred  with  much  success  and  or- 
namental eff'ect  in  a  small  artificial 
Avarren,  in  a  lawn  in  the  garden, 
made  in  the  following  manner.  Pare 
off"  the  turf  of  a  circle  about  forty 
feet  diameter,  and  lay  it  on  the  out- 
side ;  then  dig  a  ditch  within  this 
circle,  the  outside  perpendicular, 
the  inner  sloping,  and  throw  earth 
sufficient  into  the  middle  to  form  a 
little  hill,  two  or  three  feet  higher 
than  the  level  of  the  lawn  ;  the  rest 
must  be  carried  away.  Then  lay 
down  the  turf  on  the  hill,  and  beat 
it  well  to  settle.  The  ditch  at  bot- 
tom should  be  about  three  feet  wide, 
andlfcree  and  a  half  deep,  with  two 
or  three  drains  at  the  bottom,  cover- 
ed with  an  iron  grate,  or  a  stone  with 
holes,  to  carry  off"  the  hasty  rains, 
in  order  to  keep  the  rabbits  dry. 
291 


RA  B 


RAD 


In  the  outside  bank  should  be  six 
alcoves,  the  sides  and  top  support- 
ed, either  by  boards  or  brick-work, 
to  give  the  rabbits  their  dry  food  in  ; 
by  their  different  situations  some 
will  always  be  dry  ;  six  boxes  or 
old  tea-chests,  let  into  the  bank  will 
do  very  well.  If  the  ground  be  very 
light,  the  outside  circle  should  have 
a  wall  built  round  it,  or  some  stakes 
driven  into  the  ground,  and  boards 
or  hurdles  nailed  to  them,  within  a 
foot  of  the  bottom,  to  prevent  the 
bank  from  falling  in.  The  entrance 
must  either  be  by  a  board  to  turd 
occasionally  across  the  ditch,  or  by 
a  ladder.  The  turf  being  settled, . 
and  the  grass  beginning  to  grow, 
turn  in  the  rabbits,  and  they  will 
immediately  go  to  work  to  make 
themselves  burrows  in  the  sides,  and 
in  the  hill.  By  way  of  inducing 
them  rather  to  build  in  the  sides, 
to  keep  the  turf  the  neater,  make  a 
score  of  holes  about  a  foot  deep, 
and  they  will  finish  them  to  their 
own  mind  ;  and  if  there  be  a  brick 
wall  round  it,  it  should  be  built  on 
pillars,  with  an  arch  from  each,  to 
leave  a  vacancy  for  a  burrow.  Lu- 
cern,  parsley  and  carrots  are  very 
proper  food  for  them ;  and  they 
should  also  be  fed  upon  some  of  the 
best  upland  pasture  hay.  Rabbits 
are  subject  to  several  diseases,  as 
the  rot,  which  is  caused  by  giving 
them  too  large  a  quantity  of  green 
food,  or  the  giving  it  fresh  gather- 
ed, with  the  dew  or  rain  hanging  in 
fresh  drops  upon  it,  as  it  is  over- 
moisture  that  always  causes  the 
disease ;  the  green  food  should 
therefore  always  be  given  dry,  and 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  hay,  or  other 
dry  food,  intermixed  with  it,  to 
counteract  the  bad  effects  of  it. 
And  a  sort  of  madness  often  seizes 
them :  this  may  be  known  by  their 
tumbling  about ;  their  heels;  up- 
wards, and  hopping  in  an  odd  man- 
ner into  the  boxes.  This  distemper 
is  supposed  to  be  owing  to  the  rank- 
ness  of  their  feeding ;  and  the  ge- 
292 


nerai  cure  is  the  keeping  them  low 
and  giving  them  the  prickly  herb 
called  tare-thistle  to  eat  as  much 
as  possible.  They  are  also  subject 
to  a  sort  of  scabby  eruption,  which 
is  seldom  removed.  These  should, 
however,  be  directly  separated  from 
the  rest  of  the  stock, 

RABBIT  LIKE  HARE.  Choose 
a  full-grown  young  rabbit,  and  hang 
it  up  three  or  four  days.  Then  skin 
it,  and  without  washing,  lay  it  in  a 
seasoning  of  black  pepper  and  all- 
spice, in  very  fine  powder.  Add  a 
glass  of  port  wine,  and  the  same 
quantity  of  vinegar.  Baste  it  oc- 
casionally for  forty  hours,  then  stuff 
and  roast  it  as  hare,  and  with  the 
same  sauce.  Do  not  wash  off  the 
liquor  that  it  was  soaked  in. 

RADISHES.  These  are  raised 
from  seed  by  different  sowings  from 
the  end  of  October  till  April,  or  the 
following  month.  They  should  have 
alight  fine  mould,  and  the  more 
early  sowings  be  made  on  borders, 
under  warm  walls,  or  other  similar 
places,  and  in  frames  covered  by 
glasses.  The  common  spindle-root- 
ed, short-topped  sorts  are  mostly  j 
made  use  of  in  these  early  sowings, 
the  seed  being  sown  broadccist  over 
the  beds  after  they  have  been  pre- 
pared by  digging  over  and  raking 
the  surface  even,  being  covered  in 
with  a  slight  raking.  Some  sow 
carrots  with  the  early  crops  of  ra- 
dishes. It  is  usual  to  protect  the 
early  sown  crops  in  the  borders, 
during  frosty  nights  and  bad  wea- 
ther, by  mats  or  dry  wheat  straw, 
which  should  be  carefully  removed 
every  mild  day.  By  this  means  they 
are  brought  more  forward,  as  well 
as  form  better  roots.  When  mats 
are  used,  and  supported  by  pegs  or 
hoops,  they  are  readily  applied  and 
removed.  A  second  more  general 
sowing  should  be  made  in  January 
or  February.  When  the  crops  have 
got  their  rough  leaf,'  they  should  be 
thinned  out,  where  they  are  too 
thick,  to  the  distance  of  two  inches. 


RAD 


RAD 


as  there  will  be  constantly  more  thin- 
ning by  the  daily  drawing  of  the 
young  radishes.  When  the  weather 
is  dry  in  March,  or  the  following 
month,  the  crops  should  be  occa- 
sionally well  watered,  which  not  only 
forwards  the  growth  of  the  crops, 
but  increases  the  size  of  the  roots, 
and  renders  them  more  mild  and 
crisp  in  eating.  And  the  sowings 
should  be  continued  at  the  distance 
of  a  fortnight,  till  the  latter  end  of 
March,  when  they  should  be  per- 
formed every  ten  days,  until  the  end 
of  April  or  beginning  of  the  follow- 
ing month.  In  sowing  these  later 
crops,  it  is  the  practice  of  some 
gardeners  to  sow  coss-lettuces  and 
spinach  with  them,  in  order  to  have 
the  two  crops  coming  forward  at  the 
same  time ;  but  the  practice  is  not 
to  be  much  recommended,  where 
there  is  sufficient  room.  But  in 
sowing  the  main  general  crops  in 
the  open  quarters,  the  market-gar- 
deners generally  put  them  in  on  the 
same  ground  where  they  plant  out 
their  main  crops  of  cauliflowers  and 
cabbages,  mixing  spinach  with  the 
radish-seed  as  above,  sowing  the 
seeds  first,  and  raking  them  in,  then 
planting  the  cauliflowers  or  cab- 
bages ;  the  radishes  and  spinach 
come  in  for  use  before  the  other 
plants  begin  to  spread  much,  and  as 
soon  as  those  crops  are  all  cleared 
off  for  use,  hoe  the  ground  all  over 
to  kill  weeds  and  loosen  the  soil, 
drawing  earth  about  the  stems  of 
the  cauliflowers  and  cabbages.  The 
turnip  radish  should  not  be  sown 
till  the  beginning  of  March,  the 
plants  being  allowed  a  greater  dis- 
tance than  for  the  common  spindle- 
rooted  sort.  The  seeds  of  this  sort 
are  apt  to  degenerate,  unless  they 
are  set  at  a  distance  from  that  kind. 
The  white  and  black  Spanish  ra- 
dishes are  usually  sown  about  the 
middle  of  July,  or  a  little  earlier,  and 
are  fit  for  the  table  by  the  end  of 
August,  or  the  beginning  of  Septem- 
ber, continuing  good  till  frost  spoils 


them.  These  should  be  thinned  to 
a  greater  distance  than  the  common 
sort,  as  their  roots  grow  as  large  as 
turnips,  and  should  not  be  left  nearer 
than  six  inches.  To  have  these  roots 
in  winter,  they  should  be  drawn  be- 
fore hard  frost  comes  on,  and  laid 
in  dry  sand,  as  practised  for  carrots, 
carefully  guarding  them  from  wet 
and  frost ;  as  in  this  way  they  may 
be  kept  till  the  spring.  In  regard 
to  the  culture  of  the  general  crops, 
they  require  very  little,  except  oc- 
casional thinning,  where  they  are 
too  thick,  when  the  plants  are  come 
into  the  rough  leaf,  either  by  hoeing 
or  drawing  them  out  by  hand :  though 
for  large  quantities,  small  hoeing  is 
the  most  expeditious  mode  of  thin- 
ning, as  well  as  most  beneficial  to 
the  crop  by  loosening  the  ground ; 
in  either  method  thinning  the  plants 
to  about  two  or  three  inches  distance, 
clearing  out  the  weakest,  and  leav- 
ing the  strongest  to  form  the  crop. 
In  order  to  save  the  seed,  about  the 
beginning  of  May  some  ground 
should  be  prepared  by  digging  and 
levelling ;  then  drawing  some  of  the 
straightest  and  best  coloured  ra- 
dishes, plant  them  in  rows  three 
feet  distant,  and  two  feet  asunder  in 
the  rows ;  observing,  if  the  season 
be  dry,  to  water  them  until  they  have 
taken  root :  after  which  they  will 
only  require  to  have  the  weeds  hoed 
down  between  them,  until  they  are 
advanced  so  high  as  to  overspread 
the  ground.  When  the  seed  begins 
to  ripen,  it  should  be  carefully 
guarded  against  the  birds.  When  it 
is  ripe,  the  pods  will  turn  brown : 
then  it  must  be  cut,  and  spread  in 
the  sun  to  dry  ;  after  which  it  must 
be  thrashed,  and  laid  up  for  use 
where  no  mice  can  come  at  it.  In 
order  to  have  the  roots  early,  as  in 
January  or  the  following  month,  the 
method  of  raising  them  in  hot-beds 
is  sometimes  practised.  They  should 
have  eighteen  inches  depth  of  dung 
to  bring  them  up,  and  six  or  seven 
inches  depth  of  light  rich  mould. 
293 


"RAG 


RAI 


The  seed  should  be  sown  moderate- 
ly thick,  covering  it  in  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  putting  on  the  lights  : 
the  plants  usually  come  up  in  a  week 
or  less ;  and  when  they  appear,  the 
lights  should  be  lifted  or  taken  off  • 
occasionally,  according  to  the  wea- 
ther ;  and  in  a  fortnight  thin  the 
plants  to  the  distance  of  an  inch 
and  half  or  two  inches,  when  in  six 
weeks  they  will  be  fit  to  draw.  Where 
there  are  no  frames  to  spare,  the 
beds  may  be  covered  with  mats  over 
hoops,  and  the  sides  secured  by 
boards  and  straw-bands.  And  when 
in  want  of  dung,  if  the  beds  be  co- 
vered with  frames,  and  the  lights 
put  on  at  night  and  in  bad  weather, 
the  plants  may  be  raised  for  use  a 
fortnight  sooner  than  in  the  open 
borders. — To  raise  them  in  constant 
succession,  steep  the  seed  in  rain 
water  for  twenty-four  hours,  tie  it 
up  in  a  linen  bag,  and  hang  it  in  the 
sun  all  day.  The  seed  beginning 
to  shoot,  is  then  to  be  sown  in  fresh 
earth  well  exposed  to  the  sun,  and 
covered  with  a  tub.  In  three  days 
the  radishes  will  be  produced  fit 
for  salad,  and  much  more  delicate 
than  those  grown  in  the  common 
way.  In  the  winter  the  seeds  should 
be  steeped  in  warm  water,  and  the 
bag  put  in  a  place  sufficiently  hot 
to  make  them  sprout.  Then  fill  a 
tub  with  rich  mould,  sow  the  seeds 
in  it,  and  cover  them  over  closely 
with  another  tub,  taking  care  to 
sprinkle  them  now  and  then  with 
warm  water.  The  two  tubs  closely 
joined  should  be  set  in  a  warm  place, 
and  in  about  a  fortnight  some  fine 
salad  will  be  produced.  Radishes 
may  be  raised  in  this  manner  all  the 
year  round,  and  by  the  quickness 
of  their  growth  they  will  be  render- 
ed fine  and  delicate. 

RAGOUT  OF  EGGS.  Boil  eight 
eggs  hard,  then  shell  and  cut  them 
into  quarters.  Have  ready  a  pint 
of  good  gravy,  well  seasoned,  and 
thickened  over  the  fire  with  two 
ounces  of  butter  rolled   in    flour. 


When  quite  smooth  and  hot,  pour 
it  over  the  eggs,  and  serve  theiu  up. 
By  using  cream  instead  of  gravy, 
this  will  make  a  fricassee. 

RAGOUT  OF  MORELS.  Out 
them  in  long  slices,  then  wash  and 
drain  them  well.  Put  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  a  piece  of  butter, 
some  chopped  parsley,  a  bunch  of 
herbs,  and  some  gravy.  Simmer 
them  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  when 
nearly  done,  add  a  little  pepper, 
salt,  and  flour.  Set  them  over  the 
fire,  till  the  sauce  is  properly  thick- 
ened. Stewed  with  a  little  water 
and  a  blade  of  mace,  and  thickened 
with  cream,  and  yolks  of  eggs,  they 
make  a  white  ragout.  Serve  them 
with  sippets  of  bread  toasted. 

RAGOUT  OF  TRUFFLES.  Peel 
the  trufiles,  cut  them  in  slices,  wash 
and  drain  them  well.  Put  them  into 
a  saucepan  with  a  little  gravy,  and 
stew  them  gently  over  a  slow  fire. 
When  they  are  nearly  done  enough, 
thicken  them  with  a  little  butter  and 
flour.  Stewed  in  a  little  water,  and 
thickened  with  cream  and  yolk  of 
egg,  they  make  a  nice  white  ragout. 
Truffles,  mushrooms,  and  morels, 
are  all  of  them  very  indigestible, 
and  therefore  not  to  be  recommend- 
ed to  general  use. 

RAISED  CRUST.  For  meat  pes 
or  fowls,  boil  some  water  with  a  lit- 
tle fine  lard,  and  an  equal  quantity 
of  fresh  dripping  or  butter,  but  not 
much    of  either.     While   hot,   mix 
this  with  as  much  fine  flour  as  is 
necessary,  making  the  paste  as  stiff 
as  possible,  to  be  smooth.      Good 
kneading  will  be  required  for  this 
purpose,  and  beating  it  with  a  roll- 
ing-pin.    When  quite  smooth,  put 
a  part  of  it  into  a  cloth,  or  under  a 
pan,  to  soak  till  nearly  cold.  Those        - 
who  are  not  expert  in  raising  a  crust, 
jjpaay  roll  the  paste  of  a  proper  thick- 
ness, and  cut  out  the  top  and  bot-        i 
tom  of  the  pie,  then  a  long  piece  for        j 
the  sides.     Cement  the  bottom  to        1 
the  sides  with  egg,  bringing  the  for- 
mer rather  farther  out,  and  pinching 


it  At 


RAI 


both  together.  Put  egg  between 
the  edges  of  the  paste,  to  make  it 
adhere  at  the  sides.  Fill  the  pie, 
put  on  the  cover,  and  pinch  it  and 
the  side  crust  together.  The  same 
mode  of  uniting  the  paste  is  to  be 
observed,  if  the  sides  are  pressed 
into  a  tin  form,  in  which  the  paste 
must  be  baked,  after  it  is  filled  and 
covered  ;  but  in  the  latter  case,  the 
tin  should  be  buttered,  and  carefully 
taken  oft'  when  done  enough  ;  and 
as  the  form  usually  makes  the  sides 
of  a  lighter  colour  than  is  proper, 
the  paste  should  be  put  into  the 
oven  again  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
The  crust  should  be  egged  over  at 
first  with  a  feather. — Another.  Put 
four  ounces  of  butter  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  water  ;  and  when  it  boils, 
pour  it  into  a  quantity  of  flour. 
Knead  and  beat  it  quite  smooth, 
cover  it  with  small  bits  of  butter, 
and  work  it  in.  If  for  custard,  put 
a  paper  within  to  keep  out  the  sides 
till  half  done.  Mix  up  an  egg  with 
a  little  warm  milk,  adding  sugar, 
a  little  peach  v.ater,  lemon  peel,  or 
nutmeg,  and  fill  up  tli^  paste. — 
Another  way.  To  four  pounds  of 
flour,  allow  a  pound  of  butter,  and 
an  ounce  of  salt.  Heap  the  flour 
on  a  pie  board,  and  make  a  hole  in 
the  middle  of  it,  and  put  in  the  but- 
ter and  salt.  Pour  in  water  nearly 
boiling,  but  with  caution,  that  the 
crust  be  not  too  flrmsey.  Work  the 
butter  with  the  hand  till  it  is  melted 
in  the  water,  then  mix  in  the  flour, 
mould  it  for  a  few  minutes  as 
quick  as  possible,  that  it  may  be 
free  from  lumps,  and  the  stiffer  it 
is  the  better.  Let  it  be  three  hours 
before  it  is  used. 

RAISIN  WINE.  To  every  gal- 
lon of  spring  water,  allow  eight 
pounds  of  fresh  Smyrnas,  and  put 
them  together  in  a  large  tub.  Stir 
it  thoroughly  every  day  for  a  month, 
then  press  the  raisins  in  a  horse- 
hair bag  as  dry  as  possible,  and  put 
the  liquor  into  a  cask.    When  it  has 


done  hissing,  pour  in  a  bottle  of 
the  best  brandy,  stop  it  close  for 
twelve  months,  and  then  rack  it  off 
free  from  the  dregs.  Filter  the  dregs 
through  a  bag  of  flannel  of  three  or 
four  folds,  add  what  is  clear  to  the 
general  quantity,  and  pour  on  a 
quart  or  two  of  brandy,  according 
to  the  size  of  the  vessel.  Stop  it 
up,  and  at  the  end  of  three  years  it 
may  either  be  bottled,  or  drank  from 
the  cask.  If  raisin  wine  be  made 
rich  of  the  fruit,  and  well  kept,  tke 
flavour  will  be  much  improved. — 
To  make  raisin  wine  with  cider,  put 
two  hundred-weight  o*f  Malagas  into 
a  cask,  and  pour  upon  them  a  hogs- 
head of  good  sound  cider  that  is  not 
rough ;  stir  it  well  two  or  three 
days,  stop  it  up,  and  let  it  stand  six 
months.  Then  rack  it  into  a  cask 
that  it  will  till,  and  add  a  gallon  of 
the  best  brandy.  If  raisin  wine  be 
much  used,  it  would  answer  well  to 
keep  a  cask  always  for  it,  and  bottle 
off  one  year's  wine  just  in  time  to 
make  the  next,  which,  allowing  the 
six  months  of  infusion,  would  make 
the  wine  to  be  eighteen  months  old. 
In  cider  counties  this  way  is  found 
to  be  economical ;  and  if  the  wine 
is  not  thought  strong  enough,  the 
addition  of  another  stone  or  two  of 
raisins  would  be  sufficient,  and  the 
wine  would  still  be  very  cheap. 
When  the  raisins  are  pressed  through 
a  horse-hair  bag,  they  will  either 
produce  a  good  spirit  by  distillation, 
if  sent  to  a  chemist,  or  they  will 
make  excellent  vinegar. — Raisin 
wine  without  cider.  On  four  hun- 
dred-weight of  Malagas  pour  a  hogs- 
head of  spring  water,  stir  it  well 
every  day  for  a  fortnight,  then 
squeeze  the  raisins  in  a  horse-hair 
bag  in  a  press,  and  tun  the  liquor. 
When  it  ceases  to  hiss,  stop  it  close. 
In  six  months  rack  it  oflf  into  ano- 
ther cask,  or  into  a  tub  ;  and  after 
clearing  out  the  sediment,  return  it 
into  the  cask  without  washing  it. 
Add  a  gallon  of  the  best  brandy, 
295 


RAS 


HAS 


stop  it  close,  and  bottle  it  off  in  six 
months.  The  pressed  fruit  may  be 
reserved  for  making  vinegar. 

RAMAKINS.  Scrape  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  Cheshire  cheese,  and 
the  same  of  Gloucester  cheese,  and 
add  them  to  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  fresh  butter.  Beat  all  in  a  mor- 
tar, with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
and  the  inside  of  a  small  French 
roll  boiled  soft  iu  cream.  Mix  the 
paste  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
previously  beaten,  put  it  into  small 
paper  pans  made  rather  long  than 
square,  and  bake  in  a  Dutch  oven 
to  a  fine  brown.  They  should  be 
eaten  quite  hot.  Some  like  the  ad- 
dition of  a  glass  of  white  wine. 
The  batter  for  ramakins  is  equally 
good  over  macaroni,  when  boiled 
tender ;  or  on  stewed  brocoli,  ce- 
lery, or  cauliflower,  a  little  of  the 
gravy  they  have  been  stewed  in  be- 
ing put  in  the  dish  with  them,  but 
not  enough  to  make  the  vegetable 
swim. 

RASPBERRY  BRANDY.  Pick 
some  fine  dry  fruit,  put  them  into  a 
stone  jar,  and  the  jar  into  a  kettle 
of  water,  or  on  a  hot  hearth,  till  the 
juice  will  run.  After  straining  it, 
add  to  every  pint  of  juice,  half  a 
pound  of  sugar ;  give  it  one  boil, 
and  skim  it.  When  cold,  put  equal 
quantities  of  juice  and  brandy  ; 
shake  it  well,  and  bottle  it.  Some 
persons  prefer  it  stronger  of  the 
brandy. 

RASPBE^Y  CAKES.  Pick  out 
some  fine  ripe  raspberries,  weigh  and 
boil  them.  When  mashed,  and  the 
liquor  is  wasted,  add  sugar  equal  to 
the  first  weight  of  the  fruit.  Take 
it  off  the  fire,  mix  it  well,  until  per- 
fectly dissolved,  and  then  put  it  on 
china  plates  to  dry  in  the  sun.  As 
soon  as  the  top  part  dries,  cut  the 
paste  into  small  cakes  with  the  co- 
ver of  a  canister  ;  then  turn  them  on 
fresh  plates,  and  put  tliem  into  boxes 
when  dry,  with  layers  of  white 
paper. 

296 


RASPBERRY  CREAM.  Mash 
the  fruit  gently,  and  let  them  drain ; 
sprinkle  some  sugar  over,  and  that 
will  produce  more  juice.  Then  put 
the  juice  to  some  cream,  and  sweet- 
en it.  After  this  it  may  be  lowered 
with  milk  ;  but  if  the  milk  be  put  in 
before  the  cream,  it  will  curdle  it. 
When  fresh  fruit  cannot  be  obtained, 
it  is  best  made  of  raspberry  jelly, 
instead  of  jam. — Another  way.  Boil 
an  ounce  of  isinglass  shavings  in 
three  pints  of  cream  and  new  milk 
mixed,  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  till  the 
shavings  be  melted.  Strain  it  through 
a  hair  sieve  into  a  bason;  when 
cool,  add  about  half  a  pint  of  rasp- 
berry juice  or  syrup,  to  the  milk  and 
cream.  Stir  it  till  it  is  well  incor- 
porated ;  sweeten,  and  add  a  glass 
of  brandy.  Whisk  it  about  till  three 
parts  cold,  and  then  put  it  into  a 
mould  till  it  is  quite  cold.  In  sum- 
mer, use  the  fresh  juice  ;  in  winter, 
syrup  of  raspberries. 

RASPBERRY  JAM.  Weigh  equal 
quantities  of  fruit  and  sugar;  put 
the  former  into  a  preserving-pan, 
boil  and  break  it,  stir  it  constantly, 
and  let  it  boil  very  quickly.  When 
most  of  the  juice  is  wasted,  add  the 
sugar,  and  simmer  it  half  an  hour. 
By  this  mode  of  management  the 
jam  is  greatly  superior  in  colour  and 
flavour,  to  that  which  is  made  by 
putting  the  sugar  in  at  first. — Ano- 
ther way.  Put  the  fruit  in  a  jar,  and 
the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  water  on  a  hot 
hearth,  and  let  it  remain  till  the  juice 
will  run  from  it.  Then  take  away 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  from  every  pound 
of  fruit,  boil  and  bruise  it  half  an 
hour.  Put  in  the  weight  of  the  fruit 
in  sugar,  add  the  same  quantity  of 
currant  juice,  and  boil  it  to  a  strong 
jelly.  The  raspberry  juice  will  serve 
to  put  into  brandy,  or  may  be  boiled 
with  its  weight  in  sugar,  for  making 
the  jelly  for  raspberry  ice  or  cream. 

RASPBERRY  TARTS.  Roll  out 
some  thin  puff  paste,  and  lay  it  in 
a  pattipan.     Put  in  the  raspberries, 


tlAS 


RAT 


strew  some  fine  sugar  over  them, 
cover  with  a  thin  lid,  and  bake  the 
tart.  Mix  a  pint  of  cream  with  the 
yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  a  little  sugar.  Cut  open 
the  tart,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and 
return  it  to  the  oven  for  five  or  six 
minutes. — Another.  Line  the  dish 
with  puff  paste,  put  in  sugar  and 
fruit,  lay  bars  across,  and  bake  them. 
Currant  tarts  are  done  in  the  same 
way. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR.  Put 
a  pound  of  fine  fruit  into  a  china 
bowl,  and  pour  upon  it  a  quart  of 
the  best  white  wine  vinegar.  Next 
day  strain  the  liquor  on  a  pound  of 
fresh  raspberries,  and  the  following 
day  do  the  same ;  but  do  not  squeeze 
the  fruit,  only  drain  the  liquor  as 
dry  as  possible  from  it.  The  last 
time  pass  it  through  a  canvas,  pre- 
viously moistened  with  vinegar,  to 
prevent  waste.  Put  it  into  a  stone 
jar,  with  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every 
pint  of  juice,  broken  into  large 
lumps.  Stir  it  when  melted,  then 
put  the  jar  into  a  saucepan  of  water, 
or  on  a  hot  hearth  ;  let  it  simmer, 
and  skim  it  clean.  When  cold,  bot- 
tle it  up.  This  is  one  of  the  most 
useful  preparations  that  can  be  kept 
in  a  house,  not  only  as  affording  the 
most  refreshing  beverage,  but  being 
of  singular  efficacy  in  complaints 
of  the  chest.  A  large  spoonful  or 
two  in  this  case  is  to  be  taken  in  a 
tumbler  of  water.  No  glazed  or 
metal  vessel  of  any  kind  should  be 
used  in  this  preparation.  The  fruit, 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar, 
makes  excellent  Raspberry  Cakes, 
without  boiling. 

RASPBERRY  WINE.  To  every 
quart  of  well-picked  raspberries  put 
a  quart  of  water  ;  bruise,  and  let 
them  stand  two  days.  Strain  off 
the  liquor  ;  and  to  every  gallon  add 
three  pounds  of  lump  sugar.  When 
dissolved,  put  the  liquor  in  a  barrel ; 
and  when  fine,  which  will  be  in 
about  two  months,  bottle  it  off*.     To 


each  bottle  put  a  spoonful  of  brandy, 
or  a  glass  of  wine.. 

RATIFIA.  Blanch  two  ounces 
of  peach  and  apricot  kernels,  bruise 
and  put  them  into  a  bottle,  and  fill 
it  nearly  up  with  brandy.  Dissolve 
half  a  pound  of  white  sugar-candy 
in  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  add  it 
to  the  brandy  after  it  has  stood  a 
month  on  the  kernels,  and  they  are 
strained  off".  Then  filter  through 
paper,  and  bottle  it  up  for  use.  The 
leaves  of  peaches  and  nectarines, 
when  the  trees  are  cut  in  the  spring, 
being  distilled,  are  an  excellent  sub- 
stitute for  ratifia  in  puddings. 

RATIFIA  CAKES.  Blanch  and 
beat  fine  in  a  mortar,  four  ounces 
of  bitter  almonds,  and  two  ounces 
of  sweet  almonds.  Prepare  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  loaf  sugar,  pounded 
and  sifted ;  beat  up  the  whites  Oi' 
four  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  add  the 
sugar  to  it  a  little  at  a  time,  till  it 
becomes  of  the  stiff'ness  of  dough. 
Stir  and  beat  it  well  together,  and 
put  in  the  almonds.  Drop  the  paste 
on  paper  or  tins,  and  bake  it  in  a 
slow  oven.  Try  one  of  the  cakes, 
and  if  it  rises  out  of  shape,  the  oven 
is  too  hot.  The  cakes  must  not  be 
handled  in  making,  but  a  spoon  or 
a  knife  must  be  used. 

RATIFIA  CREAM.  Boil  three 
or  four  laurel,  peach,  or  nectarine 
leaves,  in  a  full  pint  of  cream,  and 
strain  it.  When  cold,  add  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs  beaten  and  strained, 
sugar,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  bran- 
dy sjtirred  quick  into  it.  Scald  and 
stir  it  all  the  time,  till  it  thickens. 
Or  mix  half  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
ratifia,  the  same  quantity  of  moun- 
tain wine,  the  juice  of  two  or  three 
lemons,  a  pint  of  rich  cream,  and 
agreeably  sweetened  with  sugar. 
Beat  it  with  a  whisk,  and  put  it  into 
glasses.  The  cream  will  keep  eight 
or  ten  days. — Another.  Blanch  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  bitter  al- 
monds, and  beat  them  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  water  in  a  marble  mortar. 

Q  q  297 


11  A  T 


H  A  t 


Rub  with  the  paste  two  ounces  of 
loaf  sugar,  simmer  it  ten  minutes 
with  a  tea-cupful  of  cream,  and  then 
strain  and  ice  it. 

RATIFIA  DROPS.  Blanch.and 
beat  in  a  mortar  four  ounces  of  bit- 
ter almonds,  and  two  ounces  of 
sweet  almonds,  with  a  small  part  of 
a  pound  of  fine  sugar  sifted.  Add 
the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  and  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  and  make  the 
whole  into  a  paste.  Divide  the  mass 
into  little  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg, 
put  them  on  wafer  paper,  and  bake 
them  gently  on  tin  plates. 

RATS.  The  first  step  taken  by 
rat-catchers,  in  order  to  clear  a 
house,  &c.  of  those  vermin,  is  to 
allure  them  all  together,  to  one  pro- 
per place,  before  they  attempt  to 
destroy  them ;  for  there  is  such  an 
instinctive  caution  in  these  animals, 
accompanied  with  a  surprising  sa- 
gacity in  discovering  any  cause  of 
danger,  that  if  any  of  them  be  hurt, 
or  pursued,  in  an  unusual  manner, 
the  rest  take  the  alarm,  and  become 
so  shy  and  wary,  that  they  elude  all 
the  devices  and  stratagems  of  their 
pursuers  for  some  time  after.  The 
place  where  the  rats  are  to  be  as- 
sembled, should  be  some  closet,  or 
small  room,  into  which  all  the  open- 
ings, but  one  or  two,  may  be  se- 
cured ;  and  this  place  should  be, 
as  near  as  may  be,  in  the  middle  of 
the  house,  or  buildings.  It  is  the 
practice,  therefore,  to  attempt  to 
bring  them  all  together  in  some  such 
place  before  any  attempt  be  made 
to  take  them ;  and  even  then  to 
avoid  any  violence,  hurt,  or  fright 
to  them,  before  the  whole  be  in  the 
power  of  the  operator.  In  respect 
to  the  means  used  to  allure  them  to 
one  place,  they  are  various  ;  one  of 
those  most  easily  and  efficaciously 
practised  is  the  trailing  some  piece 
of  their  most  favourite  food,  which 
should  be  of  the  kind  that  has  the 
strongest  scent,  such  as  toasted 
cheese,  or  brcfiled  red-herring,  from 
298 


the  holes  or  entrances  to  their  ac- 
cesses in  every  part  of  the  house,  or 
contiguous  buildings,  whence  it  is 
intended  to  allure  them.  At  the 
extremities,  and  in  different  parts  of 
the  course  of  this  trailed  tract,  small 
quantities  of  meal,  or  any  other  kind 
of  their  food,  should  be  laid,  to 
bring  the  greater  number  into  the 
tracks,  and  to  encourage  them  to 
pursue  it  to  the  centre  place,  where 
they  are  intended  to  be  taken  ;  at 
that  place,  where  time  admits  of  it, 
a  more  plentiful  repast  is  laid  for 
them,  and  the  trailing  repeated  for 
two  or  three  nights.  But  besides 
this  trailing,  and  way-baiting,  some 
of  the  most  expert  of  the  rat-catchers 
have  a  shorter,  and,  perhaps,  more 
effectual  method  of  bringing  them 
together,  which  is,  the  calling  them, 
by  making  such  a  kind  of  whistling 
noise  as  resembles  their  own  call, 
and  by  this  means,  with  the  assist- 
ance of  the  way-baits,  they  call  them 
out  of  their  holes,  and  lead  them  to 
the  repast  prepared  for  them  at  the 
place  designed  for  taking  them.  But 
this  is  much  more  difficult  to  be 
practised  than  the  art  of  trailing ; 
for  the  learning  the  exact  notes,  or 
cries,  of  any  kind  of  beasts  or 
birds,  so  as  to  deceive  them,  is  a  pe- 
culiar talent,  not  easily  attained  to 
in  other  cases.  And  in  practising 
either  of  these  methods,  great  cau- 
tion must  be  used  by  the  operator 
to  suppress,  and  prevent,  the  scent 
of  his  feet  and  body  from  being  per- 
ceived ;  which  is  done  by  overpow- 
ering that  scent  by  others  of  a 
stronger  nature.  In  order  to  this 
the  feet  are  to  be  covered  with  cloths 
rubbed  over  with  assafcetida,  or 
other  strong  smelling  substances  ; 
and  even  oil  of  rhodium  is  some- 
times used  for  this  purpose,  but 
sparingly,  on  account  of  its  dear- 
ness,  though  it  has  a  very  alluring, 
as  well  as  disguising  effect.  If  this 
caution  of  avoiding  the  scent  of  th€ 
operator's  feet,  near  the  track,  and 


in  the  place  where  the  rats  are  pro- 
posed to  be  collected,  be  not  pro- 
perly observed,  it  will  very  much 
obstruct  the  success  of  the  attempt 
to  take  them  ;  for  they  are  very  shy 
of  coming  where  the  scent  of  human 
feet  lies  very  fresh,  and  intimates, 
to  their  sagacious  instinct,  the  pre- 
sence of  human  creatures^  whom 
they  naturally  dread.  To  the  above- 
mentioned  means  of  alluring  by 
trailing,  way-baiting,  and  calling, 
is  added  another  of  very  material 
efficacy,  which  is  the  use  of  the  oil 
of  rhodium,  which,  like  the  marum 
syriacum  in  the  case  of  cats,  has  a 
very  extraordinary  fascinating  power 
on  these  animals.  The  oil  is  ex- 
tremely dear,  and  therefore  very 
sparingly  used.  It  is  exhaled  in  a 
small  quantity  in  the  place,  and  at 
the  entrance  of  it,  where  the  rats 
are  intended  to  be  taken,  particu-* 
larly  at  the  time  when  they  are  to  be 
last  brought  together  in  order  to  their 
destruction ;  and  it  is  used  also,  by 
smearing  it  on  the  surface  of  some 
of  the  implements  used  in  taking 
them,  by  the  method  before  de- 
scribed, and  the  effect  it  has  in  tak- 
ing off  their  caution  and  dread,  by 
the  delight  they  appear  to  have  in 
it,  is  very  extraordinary.  It  is  usual, 
likewise,  for  the  operator  to  dis- 
guise his  figure  as  well  as  scent, 
which  is  done  by  putting  on  a  sort 
of  gown  or  cloak,  of  one  colour, 
that  hides  the  natural  form,  and 
makes  him  appear  like  a  post,  or 
such  inanimate  thing  ;  which  habit 
must  likewise  be  scented  as  above, 
to  overpower  the  smell  of  his  per- 
son ;  and  besides  this  he  is  to  avoid 
all  motion,  till  he  has  secured  his 
point  of  having  all  the  rats  in  his 
power.  When  the  rats  are  thus 
enticed  and  collected,  where  time  is 
afforded,  and  the  whole  in  any  house 
or  outbuildings  are  intended  to  be 
cleared  away,  they  are  suffered  to 
regale  on  what  they  most  like,  which 
is  ready  prepared  for  them ;  and 
then  to  go  away  quietly  for  two  or 


RAT 

three  nights  ;  by  which  means  those 
which  are  not  allured  the  first  night 
are  brought  afterwards,  either  by 
their  fellows,  or  the  effects  of  the 
trailing,  &c.  and  will  not  fail  to 
come  duly  again,  if  they  are  not 
disturbed  or  molested.  But  many 
of  the  rat-catchers  make  shorter 
work,  and  content  themselves  with 
what  can  be  brought  together  in  one 
night  or  two ;  but  this  is  never  ef- 
fectual, unless  where  the  building 
is  small  and  entire,  and  the  rats  but 
few  in  number.  With  respect  to 
the  means  of  taking  them  when  they 
are  brought  together,  they  are  va- 
rious. Some  entice  them  into  a 
very  large  bag,  the  mouth  of  which 
is  sufficiently  capacious  to  cover 
nearly  the  whole  floor  of  the  place 
where  they  are  collected  ;  which  is 
done  by  smearing  some  vessel, 
placed  in  the  middle  of  the  bag, 
with  oil  of  rhodium,  and  laying  in 
the  bag  baits  of  proper  food.  This 
bag,  which  before  laid  flat  on  the 
ground,  with  the  mouth  spread  open, 
is  to  be  suddenly  closed  when  the 
rats  are  all  in  it.  Others  drive  or 
frighten  them,  by  slight  noises  or 
motions,  into  a  bag  of  a  long  form, 
the  mouth  of  which,  after  all  the 
rats  are  come  in,  is  drawn  up  to  the 
opening  of  the  place  by  which  they 
entered,  all  other  ways  of  retreat 
being  secured.  Others,  again,  in- 
toxicate or  poison  them,  by  mixing 
with  the  repast  prepared  for  them 
the  cocculus  indicus,  or  the  nux 
vomica.  A  receipt  for  this  purpose 
has  appeared,  which  directs  four 
ounces  of  cocculus  indicus,  with 
twelve  ounces  of  oatmeal,  and  two 
ounces  of  treacle  or  honey,  to  be 
made  up  into  a  moist  paste  with 
strong  beer  ;  but  if  the  nux  vomica 
be  used,  a  much  less  proportion 
will  serve  than  is  here  given  of  the 
cocculus.  Any  similar  composition 
of  these  drugs,  with  that  kind  of 
food  the  rats  are  most  fond  of,  and 
which  has  a  strong  flavour,  to  hide 
that  of  the  drugs,  will  cquallv  well 
2981  " 


RAT 


RAT 


answer  the  end.  If,  indeed,  the 
cocculus  indicus  be  well  powdered, 
and  infused  in  strong  beer  for  some 
time,  at  least  half  the  quantity  here 
directed  will  serve  as  well  as  the 
quantity  before  mentioned.  When 
the  rats  appear  to  be  thoroughly  in- 
toxicated with  the  cocculus,  or  sicfc 
with  the  nux  vomica,  they  may  be 
taken  with  the  hand,  and  put  into  a 
bag  or  cage,  the  door  of  the  place 
being  first  drawn  to,  lest  those 
which  have  strength  and  sense  re-> 
maining  should  escape.  By  these 
methods,  when  well  conducted,  a 
very  considerable  part  of  the  rats 
in  a  farm,  or  other  house,  and  the 
contiguous  buildings,  may  be  taken 
and  destroyed.  But  various  other 
methods  have  been  practised. — The 
following  compositions  are  advised 
for  destroying  these  mischievous 
creatures,  and  which  are  stated  to 
have  been  attended  with  great  suc- 
cess. First,  to  a  quart  of  oatmeal, 
add  six  drops  of  oil  of  rhodium,  one 
grain  of  musk,  and  two  or  three  of 
the  nuts  of  nux  vomica  finely  pow- 
dered ;  make  them  into  pellets,  and 
put  them  into  the  rat-holes.  This, 
it  is  said,  was  at  first  greedily  eaten, 
and  did  great  execution ;  but  the 
wise  animals,  after  a  time,  ceased 
to  eat  it.  Secondly  ;  this  consisted 
of  three  parts  of  oatmeal  and  one  of 
stave's-acre,  mixed  well  into  a  paste 
with  honey.  Pieces  of  this  paste 
were  laid  in  their  holts,  and  again 
did  great  execution.  Thirdly  ;  this 
is  a  method  of  destroying  them  by 
laying  a  large  box  down  on  its  front 
side,  with  the  lid  supported  open  by 
a  string  over  a  pulley ;  and  by  trail- 
ing toasted  cheese  and  a  red-herring 
from  their  holes  to  this  box,  and 
placing  oatmeal  and  other  food  in 
it,  which  they  are  for  a  few  nights 
to  be  permitted  to  eat  unmolested  ; 
and  finally  to  watch  them  by  moon- 
light, the  inside  of  the  box  being 
painted  white  ;  and,  when  many  of 
them  are  seen,  to  let  down  the  lid  ; 
bv  which  contrivance  sixty  of  them 
300 


are  stated  to  have  been  taken  at  one 
time. — But  though  the  usual  ways 
of  destroying  rats  are  by  traps  and 
poison,  it  is  advised  never  to  use 
arsenic,  or  corrosive  sublimate,  for 
that  purpose,  except  under  particu- 
lar circumstances,  as  they  are  dead- 
ly poisons  :  nux  vomica  will  gene- 
rally answer  the  end  as  well,  without 
the  danger.  It  is  a  very  good  plan, 
to  prevent  accidents,  to  enclose  the 
traps  in  cases,  having  holes  in  the 
ends  of  them  large  enough  to  admit 
rats,  but  small  enough  to  exclude 
dogs,  cats,  &c.  As  a  bait  for  rat- 
traps,  the  following  composition 
may  be  made  use  of  with  advantage. 
Take  a  pound  of  good  flour,  three 
ounces  of  treacle,  and  six  drops  of 
the  oil  of  carraways  :  put  them  all 
in  a  dish,  and  rub  them  well  toge- 
ther till  they  are  properly  mixed : 
then  add  a  pound  of  crumb  of  bread. 
The  traps  baited  with  this  mixture 
should  be  set  as  near  their  haunts 
as  possible  ;  but,  for  two  or  three 
days,  so  as  not  to  fall  or  strike  on 
the  rats  going  in,  but  letting  them 
have  free  liberty  to  go  in  and  out  at 
pleasure,  as  this  makes  them  fear- 
less. Some  of  the  bait  should  also 
be  laid  at  the  rat-holes,  and  a  little 
of  it  scattered  quite  up  to  the  traps, 
and  so  on  to  the  bridge  of  each 
trap,  where  a  handful  may  be  placed. 
It  may  also  be  proper  to  scent  the 
traps  with  the  following  mixture,  for 
the  purpose  of  enticing  the  rats  into 
them.  Take  twenty  drops  of  the 
oil  of  rhodium,  six  or  seven  grains 
of  musk,  and  half  an  ounce  of  oil  of 
aniseed  ;  put  them  in  a  small  phial, 
and  shake  it  well  before  using ;  then 
dip  a  piece  of  twisted  paper  or  rag 
in  the  mixture,  and  rub  each  end  of 
the  trap  with  it,  if  a  box  trap,  and 
put  two  or  three  drops  on  the  bridge, 
leaving  the  paper  or  rag  in  the  trap. 
Of  whatever  kind  the  trap  is,  it 
should  be  scented  ;  but  once  in  a 
twelvemonth  will  be  sufficient.  Then 
throw  some  chaff  mixed  with  a  little 
wheat  about  the    bottom    of   the 


RAT 


RAT 


trap,  in  order  to  deceive  the  rats  ; 
fbl  they  are  very  sagacious,  and  will 
not  enter  a  suspicious  place.  This 
will  be  necessary  to  be  done  only 
at  the  first  time  of  setting  the  traps ; 
for,  after  some  rats  have  been 
caught  and  have  watered  and  dung- 
ed in  them,  rats  will  enter  boldly 
when  they  find  others  have  been 
there  before  them  :  .  do  not,  there- 
fore, wash  or  clean  out  the  trap,  as 
some  people  do  before  they  set  it 
again,  but  let  the  dung  and  urine 
remain  in  it.  Keep  the  places  where 
the  traps  are  set  as  private  as  pos- 
sible ;  and  when  they  are  set  for 
catching,  mix  no  bread  with  the 
bait,  as  the  rats  will,  in  that  case, 
be  apt  to  carry  it  away.  And  it  is 
useful,  when  the  holes  are  found 
quiet,  and  that  no  rats  use  them,  to 
stop  them  up  with  the  following 
composition.  Take  a  pint  of  com- 
mon tar,  half  an  ounce  of  pearl- 
ashes,  an  ounce  of  oil  of  vitriol,  and 
a  good  handful  of  common  salt,  mix 
them  all  well  together  in  an  old  pan 
or  pot.  Take  some  pieces  of  pa- 
per, and  lay  some  of  the  above  mix- 
ture very  thick  on  them ;  then  stop 
the  holes  well  up  with  them,  and 
build  up  the  mouth  of  the  holes  with 
brick  or  stone,  and  mortar ;  if  this 
be  properly  done,  rats  will  no  more 
approach  these  while  either  smell 
or  taste  remains  in  the  composition. 
But  with  a  view  to  destroy  rats  in 
places  where  traps  cannot  be  set,  it 
is  recommended  to  take  a  quart  of 
the  above  bait,  then  to  rasp  into  it 
three  nuts  of  nux  vomica,  and  add 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  crumb  of 
bread,  if  there  was  none  before ; 
mix  them  all  well  together,  and  lay 
it  into  the  mouth  of  their  holes,  and 
in  different  places  where  they  fre- 
quent ;  but  first  give  them  of  the 
bait  without  nux  vomica,  for  three 
or  four  succeeding  nights ;  and  when 
they  find  it  agrees  with  them,  they 
will  eat  that  mixed  with  the  nut 
with  greediness.  However,  as  it  is 
frequently  found  that  rats  are  very 


troublesome  in  sewers  and  drains, 
in  such  cases  arsenic  may  be  use<l 
with  success  in  the  following  man- 
ner. Take  some  dead  rats,  and 
having  put  some  white  arsenic,  finejy 
powdered,  into  an  old  pepper-box, 
shake  a  quantity  of  it  on  the  fore- 
parts of  the  dead  rats,  and  put  them 
down  the  holes,  or  avenues,  by  the 
sides  of  the  sewers  at  which  they 
come  in ;  this  puts  a  stop  to  the 
live  ones  coming  any  further;  for 
when  they  perceive  the  arsenic,  they 
will  retire  immediately  ;  whereas,  if 
they  were  put  down  without  the 
arsenic,  the  live  ones  would  eat  them .  i 
It  is  by  means  of  arsenic,  notwith-  '■ 
standing  the  above  observations, 
that  the  most  certain  method  of 
destroying  these  troublesome  ver- 
min, (provided  tbey  can  be  made  to 
eat  it,)  takes  place ;  which  has 
been  found  to  answer  best  when  it 
is  prepared  by  being  finely  levigated, 
and  mixed  up  with  very  strong  old 
cheese  and  oatmeal.  But  after  all, 
it  is  probable  that  this  highly  de- 
structive animal,  and  great  pest  to 
the  farmer,  might  be  most  readily 
exterminated  by  parishes  uniting 
for  the  purpose,  and  raising  certain 
sums  of  money  to  be  applied  in 
this  way,  under  the  direction  of  a 
proper  person  who  is  fully  acquaint- 
ed with  the  business.— In  many 
grain  and  other  districts  in  the 
kingdom  these  animals  prevail  very 
much,  especially  the  grey  kind,  par- 
ticularly in  all  those  where  there  are 
no  regular  raised  staddles  or  stands 
for  the  grain  stacks  to  rest 'upon, 
which  is  the  case  in  a  great  number. 
The  mischief,  injury,  and  destruc- 
tion of  grain  which  is  produced  in 
this  way,  is  scarcely  to  be  calculated ; 
and  they  are  besides  very  mischiev- 
ous, troublesome,  and  inconvenient 
in  several  others ;  so  that  they 
should  be  every  where  extirpated  as 
much  as  possible.  And  in  corn 
tracts,  stands  or  staddles  should 
every  where  be  provided  in  order  to 
prevent  mischief  being  done  by  them, 
301 


RED 


REG 


RAZOR  STRAPS.  Nothing 
makes  a  better  razor  strap  than  cro- 
cus martis  with  a  little  sweet  oil, 
rubbed  well  on  doe  skin  with  a  glass 
bottle  ;  and  to  keep  it  in  perfect 
order,  it  should  not  be  left  too  long 
dry. 

RED  CABBAGE.  Slice  a  red 
cabbage  crossways,  put  it  in  an 
earthen  dish,  and  throw  on  it  a 
handful  of  salt.  Cover  it  over  till 
the  next  day,  drain  it  in  a  cullender, 
and  put  it  into  a  jar.  Boil  some 
good  vinegar,  with  cloves  and  all- 
spice ;  pour  it  hot  on  the  cabbage 
<  till  the  jar  is  full,  and  when  cold  tie 
it  down  close. 

RED  HERRINGS.  Choose  those 
that  are  large  and  moist,  cut  them 
open,  and  pour  over  them  some  boil- 
ing small  beer.  Let  them  soak  half 
an  hour,  then  drain  and  dry  them  ; 
make  them  just  hot  through  before 
the  fire,  and  rub  them  over  with  cold 
butter.  Serve  with  egg  sauce,  or 
buttered  eggs;  mashed  potatoes 
should  also  be  sent  up  with  them. 

RED  INK.  Infuse  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  Brazil  wood,  rasped,  in 
two  pints  of  vinegar,  for  three  days. 
Then  boil  the  liquid  and  the  wood 
over  a  gentle  fire,  for  an  hour,  and 
strain  it  off  quite  hot.  Put  it  again 
over  the  fire,  and  dissolve  in  it,  first, 
half  an  ounce  of  gum  arabic,  and 
afterwards,  half  an  ounce  of  alum, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  white  su- 
gar. When  the  alum  is  dissolved, 
remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  preserve 
it  for  use. 

RED  MULLET.  This  sort  of 
fish  are  in  season  in  August;  and 
to  be  good,  they  should  be  quite 
firm.  Sea  mullets  are  preferred  to 
the  river  ones,  and  the  red  to  the 
grey.  This  fish  is  sometimes  called 
the  sea  woodcock.  To  dress  mul- 
lets, clean  them,  but  leave  the  in- 
side. Fold  them  in  oiled  paper, 
and  bake  them  gently  in  a  small 
dish.  Make  a  sauce  of  the  liquor 
that  comes  from  the  fish,  with  a 
piece  of  butter,  a  little  flour,  a  little 
302 


essence  of  anchovy,  and  a  glass 
of  sherry.  Give  it  a  boil,  ser^'e 
in  a  boat,  and  the  fish  in  the  paper 
cases. 

REGIMEN.  It  may  be  difficult 
accurately  to  ascertain  the  predo- 
minant qualities  of  particular  con- 
stitutions, or  of  the  food  that  is  best 
adapted  in  particular  instances ; 
yet  it  is  certain,  that  health  is  de- 
pendent on  regimen  and  diet,  more 
than  on  any  other  cause.  There 
are  things  so  decidedly  injurious, 
and  so  well  known  to  be  so,  as  to 
require  no  admonition  ;  the  instincts 
of  nature  will  teach  us  to  refrain ; 
and  generally  speaking,  the  best  rule 
for  our  practice  is  to  observe  by 
experience,  what  it  is  that  hurts  or 
does  us  good,  and  what  our  stomachs 
are  best  able  to  digest.  We  must 
at  the  same  time  keep  our  judgment 
unbiassed,  and  not  suffer  it  to  be- 
come a  pander  to  the  appetite  ;  or 
the  stomach  and  the  health  will  be 
betrayed  to  the  mere  indulgence  of 
sensuality.  The  gratification  of  our 
taste  in  the  abundant  supplies  of  na- 
ture, converted  by  art  to  the  pur- 
poses of  wholesome  food,  is  perfectly 
compatible  with  the  necessary  main- 
tenance of  health  ;  it  is  only  the  in- 
discriminate or  inordinate  indul- 
gence of  our  appetites,  regardless 
of  the  consequences,  that  is  the  pro- 
per object  of  censure.  Many  of  the 
diseases  to  which  we  are  subject 
might  be  traced  to  this  source  ;  yet 
we  are  generally  so  little  aware  of 
it,  that  we  impute  them  to  the  state 
of  the  weather,  to  infection,  or  any 
other  imaginary  cause,  rather  than 
the  true  one.  The  weather  has  very 
little  serious  effect  upon  a  person  in 
health,  unless  exposed  to  it  in  some 
unusual  manner  that  suddenly  checks 
perspiration,  or  some  of  the  ordi- 
nary evacuations.  Infection,  though 
of  formidable  import,  is  almost  di- 
vested of  its  power  over  those  whose 
temperance  in  food  and  diet  keeps 
the  blood  and  juices  pure.  The 
closest  attendance  upon  an  infected 


KEG 


kEd 


person  has  often  been  found  per- 
fectly consistent  with  personal  safe- 
ty under  such  circumstances.  Even 
diseases,  said  to  be  hereditary,  may 
with  great  probability  be  assigned 
to  errors  in  domestic  life,  of  which 
the  children  partake,  and  fall  into 
the  same  disorders  as  their  parents, 
and  remote  progenitors.  But  even 
if  this  be  not  exactly  so,  an  origi- 
nally indifferent  constitution  may 
certainly  be  much  amended  by  pro- 
per management.  Amongst  a  va- 
riety of  causes  producing  ill  health, 
there  can  be  no  doubt  but  bad  air, 
want  of  cleanliness,  want  of  exer- 
cise, excessive  fatigue,  and  mental 
uneasiness,  must  have  an  unfavour- 
able inffuence  ;  yet  none  of  these 
have  so  immediate  an  efl'ect  as  the 
food  we  eat,  which  if  not  whole- 
some and  nutricious,  tends  directly 
to  contaminate  the  system.  We  de- 
rive the  renewal  of  our  blood  and 
juices,  which  are  constantly  ex- 
hausting, from  the  substances  con- 
verted into  food.  As  our  food  there- 
fore is  proper  or  improper,  too  much 
or  too  little,  so  will  our  blood  and 
juices  be  good  or  bad,  overcharged 
or  deficient,  and  our  state  of  health 
accordingly  good  or  diseased.  It 
is  not  only  necessary  however,  that 
our  aliment  should  be  plain  and 
wholesome  ;  it  is  requisite  also  that 
it  should  contain  active  principles  ; 
such  as  salts,  oils,  and  spirits,  which 
have  the  property  of  stimulating  the 
solids,  quickening  the  circulation, 
and  make  the  fluids  thinner;  thus 
rendering  them  more  suited  to  un- 
dergo the  necessary  secretions  of 
the  body.  The  art  of  preserving 
health,  and  of  prolonging  hfe,  con- 
sists therefore  in  the  use  of  a  mo- 
derate quantity  of  such  diet  as  shall 
neither  encrease  the  salts  and  oils 
so  as  to  produce  disease,  nor  to 
diminish  them  so  a^  to  suffer  the 
solids  to  become  relaxed.  Eating 
too  little  is  hurtful,  as  well  as  eating 
too  much.  Neither  excess  nor  hun- 
ger, nor  any  thing  else  that  passes 


the  bounds  of  nature,  can  be  good 
for  man.  Temperance  and  modera- 
tion in  eating  and  drinking,  are  na- 
ture's great  preservatives.  '  The 
throat  has  destroyed  more  than  the 
sword.'  Some  people  are  apt  to 
think,  the  more  plentifully  they  eat 
and  drink,  the  better  they  thrive, 
and  the  stronger  they  grow.  But 
this  is  not  the  case :  a  little,  well 
digested,  will  render  the  body  more 
vigorous  than  when  it  is  glutted  with 
superfluity,  most  of  which  is  turned 
to  excrementitious,  not  alimentary, 
fluid,  and  must  soon  be  evacuated, 
or  sickness  will  follow.  It  is  said 
of  the  highly  celebrated  Dr.  Boer- 
haave,  that  having  long  promised  to 
a  friend  the  secret  of  preserving 
health  and  long  life,  his  friend  be- 
came impatient  to  obtain  the  secret, 
when  he  perceived  that  the  phy- 
sician was  dying.  To  his  repeated 
solicitations,  the  doctor  as  frequent- 
ly replied,  *  Do  not  eat  too  much — 
do  not  eat  too  much  ;'  and  left  this 
advice  as  his  last  legacy  to  his  va- 
lued friend.  By  loading  the  stomach, 
digestion  is  impeded  ;  for  the  na- 
tural juice  of  the  stomach,  which  is 
the  great  medium  of  digestion,  has 
not  then  room  to  exert  itself.  The 
stomach  therefore  nauseates  its  con- 
tents, and  is  troubled  with  eructa- 
tions ;  the  spirits  are  oppressed, 
obstructions  ensue,  and  disease  is 
the  consequence.  Besides,  when 
thus  overfilled,  the  stomach  presses 
on  the  diaphragm,  prevents  the  pro- 
per play  of  the  lungs,  a.nd  occasions 
difficulty  and  uneasiness  in  breath- 
ing. Hence  arise  various  bad  symp- 
toms and  eflfects,  throughout  the 
whole  of  the  animal  economy ;  pros- 
trating the  strength,  impairing  the 
senses,  hastening  old  age,  and  short- 
ening life.  Though  these  unhappy 
consequences  may  not  be  immedi- 
ately perceived,  yet  they  are  the 
certain  attendants  of  intemperance  ; 
and  it  has  been  generally  observed 
in  great  eaters,  that  though  from 
custom,  a  state  of  youth,  and  a 
303 


REG 


REG 


strong  constitution,  they  suffer  no 
present  inconvenience,  but  have  di- 
gested their  food,  and  sustained  the 
surfeit ;  yet  if  they  have  not  been 
unexpectedly  cut  off,  they  have 
found  the  symptoms  of  old  age  come 
on  early  in  life,  attended  with  pains 
and  innumerable  disorders.  If  health 
is  to  be  regarded,  we  must  ever 
make  it  a  rule  not  to  eat  to  satiety  or 
fulness,  but  desist  while  the  stomach 
feels  quite  easy.  Thus  we  shall  be 
refreshed,  light,  and  cheerful ;  not 
dull,  heavy,  or  indisposed.  Should 
we  ever  be  tempted  to  eat  too  much 
at  one  time,  we  should  eat  the  less 
at  another :  abstinence  is  the  best 
remedy  for  repletion.  If  our  dinner 
has  been  larger  than  usual,  let  our 
supper  be  less,  or  rather,  quite 
omitted.  With  regard  to  the  times 
of  eating,  they  must  to  a  certain 
degree  be  conformed  to  family  con- 
venience, but  ought  to  be  quite  in- 
dependent of  the  caprice  of  fashion, 
instead  of  being  as  they  are,  govern- 
ed by  it.  This,  and  a  want  of  punc- 
tuality to  the  dinner  hour,  are  the 
cause  of  more  real  harm  to  the  con- 
stitution than  thoughtless  people  of 
fashion,  and  their  more  thoughtless 
imitators,  are  apt  to  imagine.  When 
a  dinner  is  dressed,  nothing  can  pre- 
vent its  being  injured  by  standing. 
It  may  be  kept  hot,  and  this  imposes 
on  those  who  think  no  farther  upon 
the  subject ;  but  the  very  means 
made  use  of  for  this  purpose,  only 
help  to  spoil  it  the  more.  If  things 
boiled  are  kept  in  the  water  after 
they  are  done  enough,  they  become 
sodden,  vapid,  and  heavy.  The  in- 
vention of  hot  closets  for  keeping 
other  things  hot,  dry  away  the  juices, 
and  make  them  strong  and  rancid. 
From  such  dinners,  indigestions  will 
ensue,  frequent  head-aches,  ner- 
vousness, and  many  other  uneasy 
sensations,  which  finally  bring  on 
maladies  of  a  more  serious  nature. 
The  great  points  to  be  guarded 
against,  respecting  the  times  of  eat- 
ing, are  either  eating  too  soon  after 
304 


a  former  meal,  or  fasting  too  long. 
The  stomach  should  always  have 
time  to  empty  itself,  before  it  is 
filled  again.  Some  stomachs  digest 
their  contents  sooner  than  others, 
and  if  long  empty  it  may  destroy  the 
appetite,  and  greatly  disturb  both 
the  head  and  animal  spirits  ;  be- 
cause from  the  great  profusion  of 
nerves  spread  over  the  stomach, 
there  is  an  immediate  sympathy  be- 
tween that  and  the  head.  Hence 
the  head  is  sure  to  be  affected  by 
whatever  disorders  the  stomach, 
whether  from  any  particular  ali- 
ment that  disagrees  with  it,  or  being 
over  filled,  or  too  long  empty. 
Hence  also,  too  frequently,  arise 
apoplexy,  or  paralytic  affections, 
especially  in  aged  people.  Such  as 
feel  a  gnawing  in  the  stomach,  as 
it  is  called,  should  not  wait  till  the 
stated  time  of  the  next  meal,  but 
take  a  small  quantity  of  food,  light, 
and  easy  of  digestion,  that  the 
stomach  may  have  something  to 
work  on.  Children,  with  craving 
appetites,  do  and  may  eat  often, 
allowing  only  a  proper  interval  to 
empty  the  stomach.  Young  per- 
sons in  health,  who  use  much  exer- 
cise, may  eat  three  times  a  day. 
But  such  as  are  in  years,  such  as 
are  weak,  as  do  no  work,  or  lead  a 
sedentary  life,  eating  twice  in  the 
day  is  quite  sufficient :  or  if  in  the 
present  habits  of  society  it  is  found 
to  be  difficult  to  arrange  for  two 
meals  only,  let  them  take  three  very 
moderate  ones.  Weak  and  aged 
persons  may  eat  often,  but  then  it 
should  be  very  little  at  a  time.  The 
diseases  to  which  we  are  liable  often 
require  substances  of  more  active 
principles  than  what  are  found  in 
common  aliment,  and  hence  the 
need  of  medicine,  in  order  to,  pro- 
duce sudden  alterations.  But  where 
such  alterations  are  not  immediately 
necessary,  the  same  effect  may  be 
produced  with  much  greater  safety, 
by  a  proper  attention  to  diet  only. 
Abstinence  is  in  short,  one  of  the 


REG 


REG 


best  remedies  to  which  we  can  re- 
sort ;  and  if  employed  in  time,  will 
entirely  cure  many  disorders,  and 
check  the  violence  of  such  as  cannot 
be  entirely  carried  off  by  it.  In  all 
cases  where  there  is  any  inflamma- 
tion, and  in  stomach  complaints,  it 
is  particularly  necessary,  and  may 
be  safely  continued  till  the  symp- 
toms of  disease  disappear.  Where 
the  digestion  is  habitually  weak,  a 
day  of  abstinence  once  a  week  will 
always  be  beneficial.  The  quality 
of  our  food  is  a  subject  of  greater 
difficulty  than  the  quantity.  Mo- 
deration is  an  invariably  safe  guide 
in  the  latter  case ;  but  though  al- 
ways favourable  to  prevent  ill  effects 
from  any  error  in  quality,  it  will 
not  always  be  effectual.  To  a  per- 
son in  good  health,  with  a  strong 
stomach,  and  whose  constant  be- 
verage is  water,  or  some  weak  li- 
quor, the  niceties  in  food  and  cook- 
ing are  less  material,  than  to  persons 
with  naturally  weak  stomachs,  or  to 
those  in  sickness,  or  for  children. 
But  all  persons  who  would  to  a  cer- 
tainty preserve  their  health  and  fa- 
culties, and  live  out  the  natural 
term  of  life,  should  use  plain  food, 
as  all  high  seasonings  and  compound 
mixtures,  have  an  injurious  effect, 
sooner  or  later,  on  the  strongest 
constitutions.  If  a  few  instances 
can  be  shewn  to  the  contrary,  these, 
like  other  anomalies  in  nature,  can- 
not constitute  an  exception  to  a  well 
established  fact.  A  prevailing  error 
in  the  diet  of  this  country  is  a  too 
great  use  of  animal  food.  The  dis- 
ease called  the  sea  scurvy,  often 
occurs  from  this  cause,  in  every 
large  town  in  England  ;  and  it  is 
probable  that  the  frequency  and 
fatality  of  putrid  and  scarlet  fevers 
may  justly  be  attributed  to  it  also. 
The  prejudices  of  this  country  are 
very  strong  in  favour  of  animal  food, 
but  the  evidence  of  facts  is  equally 
strong  against  its  absolute  neces- 
sity. Instances  of  this  are  seen  in 
the  natives  of  Hindost^n,  who  live 


upon  rice,  and  who  by  way  of  op- 
probrium call  the  inhabitants  of  this 
country  *  flesh  eaters  ;'  in  the  poor 
of  Ireland,  who  live  upon  potatoes, 
and  in  the  poor  of  Scotland,  who 
live  upon  oatmeal.     After  all,  the 
medium    is   in    all   probability    the 
best ;  neither  animal  nor  vegetable 
diet   exclusively,  but  a  reasonable 
proportion  of  both.     Persons  of  in- 
different health  should  be  particu- 
larly cautious  in  their  diet,  and  those 
labouring  under  any  particular  ma- 
lady should  carefully  conform  to  the 
regimen  prescribed  for  them  by  their 
medical  advisers. — Our  beverage  is 
another  very    important  article,   in 
reference  to  health.     It  is  essential 
to  moisten  and  convey  more  solid 
food  into  the  stomach,   and   from 
thence  to  the  respective  parts  of  the 
system.     Also  to  allay  thirst,  to  di- 
lute the  blood,  that  it  may  circulate 
through  the  minutest  vessels,  and  to 
dissolve  and  carry  off  by  watery  se- 
cretions the  superfluous  salts  taken 
in  with  the  food.     No  liquid  is  so 
effectual  for  this  purpose  as  pure 
water  ;  with  the  exception  only  of 
a  few  cases.     No  other  liquid  cir- 
culates so  well,  or  mixes  so  imme- 
diately with  our  fluids.     Other  li- 
quids are  impregnated  with  particles 
which  act  strongly  upon  the  solids 
or  fluids,  or  both  ;  but  water  being 
simple,   operates  only  by  diluting, 
moistening,  and  cooling,  which  are 
the  great  uses  of  drink  pointed  out 
to  us  by  nature.     Hence  it  is  evi- 
dent that  water  in  general  is  the 
best   and    most   wholesome  drink ; 
but  as   some   constitutions  require 
something  to  warm  and   stimulate 
the  stomach,  fermented  liquors  may 
be  proper,  if  taken  in   moderation. 
It  is  necessary  however,  that  beer, 
ale,  cider,  and  wine,  be  taken  in  a 
sound  state  and  of  proper  age,  or 
they   will    be   highly    detrimental. 
Spirituous  liquors,  taken  too  freely, 
or  in  a  raw  state,  are  attended  with 
direful  effects,  and  are  the  destruc- 
tion of  thousands.  From  the  degree 
R  r  305 


REG 


REN 


of  heat  they  have  undergone  in  dis- 
tillation, they  acquire  a  corrosive 
and  burning  quafity,  which  makes 
them  dangerous  to  the  constitution. 
They  contract  the  fibres  and  smaller 
vessels,  especially  where  they  are 
tenderest,  as  in  the  brain,  and  thus 
destroy  the  intellectual  faculties. 
They  injure  the  coat  of  the  stomach, 
and  so  expose  the  nerves  and  relax 
the  fibres,  till  the  whole  stomach 
becomes  at  last  soft  and  flabby. 
Hence  ensues  loss  of  appetite,  indi- 
gestion, and  diseases  that  generally 
terminate  in  premature  death.  Light 
wines  of  a  moderate  strength,  and 
matured  by  age,  are  more  whole- 
some than  strong,  rich,  and  heavy 
wines,  and  pass  off  the  stomach 
with  less  difficulty.  Red  port  is 
strong  and  astringent,  but  white 
port  and  Spanish  wines  are  stimu- 
lating and  attenuating.  French 
wines  are  lighter,  and  not  so  strong 
as  the  Portuguese  and  Spanish  wines, 
which  renders  them  wholesolner  for 
thin  and  dry  constitutions.  Rhenish 
and  Moselle  wines  are  the  most 
wholesome  of  any,  where  acidity  is 
not  hurtful.  Home  made  wines  are 
prejudicial  to  all  constitutions,  be- 
ing very  windy  and  heady.  The 
notion  that  liquors  of  any  kind  as- 
sist digestion,  is  quite  erroneous, 
as  wine  and  all  other  strong  liquors 
are  as  hard  to  digest  as  strong  solid 
food.  Those  who  drink  only  water 
or  small  beer  at  their  meals,  are  able 
to  eat  and  digest  almost  double  the 
quantity  of  what  they  could,  if  they 
drank  strong  liquors.  When  the 
stomach  is  uneasy  from  too  much 
food,  or  such  as  is  indigestible, 
strong  liquors  produce  a  deceitful 
glow  in  the  stomach,  which  induces 
a  belief  of  their  having  the  beneficial 
eff^ect  of  assisting  digestion.  The 
fallacy  of  this  conclusion  is  suf- 
ficiently apparent  from  the  state  in 
which  cherries  are  found,  after  they 
have  been  steeped  in  brandy  :  in- 
stead of  becoming  more  tender, 
they  are  rendered  as  tough  as  lea- 
306 


ther.  Similar  effects  are  produced 
on  food  in  the  stomach,  as  well  as 
out  of  it.  Strong  liquors  are  plainly 
improper  at  meals,  as  by  their  heat 
and  activity  they  hurry  the  food  un- 
digested into  the  habit,  and  so  lay 
the  foundation  for  various  distem- 
pers, such  as  the  gout,  rheumatism, 
apoplexy,  and  palsy. 

RENNET.  This  article,  so  ne- 
cessary in  making  of  cheese,  is  pre- 
pared as  follows.  Take  out  the 
stomach  of  a  calf  as  soon  as  killed, 
and  scour  it  inside  and  out  with  salt, 
after  it  is  cleared  of  the  curd  always 
found  in  it.  Let  it  drain  a  few  hours, 
then  sow  it  up  with  two  good  hand- 
fuls  of  salt  in  it,  or  stretch  it  on  a 
stick  well  salted,  and  hang  it  up  to 
dry. — Another  way.  Clean  the  maw 
as  above,  and  let  it  drain  a  day. 
Then  put  into  two  quarts  of  fresh 
spring-water  a  handful  of  hawthorn 
tops,  a  handful  of  sweet  briar,  a 
handful  of  rose  leaves,  a  stick  of 
cinnamon,  forty  cloves,  four  blades 
of  mace,  a  sprig  of  knotted  marjo- 
ram, and  two  large  spoonfuls  of  salt. 
Let  them  boil  gently  till  the  liquor 
is  reduced  to  three  pints,  and  strain 
it  off;  when  only  milk  warm,  pour 
it  on  the  maw.  Slice  a  lemon  into 
it,  let  it  stand  two  days,  strain  it 
again,  and  bottle  it  for  use.  It  will 
keep  good  at  least  for  twelve  months, 
and  has  a  very  fine  flavour.  Sweet 
aromatic  herbs  may  also  be  added. 
The  liquor  must  be  pretty  salt,  but 
not  made  into  brine  :  a  little  of  it 
will  turn  the  milk.  Salt  the  maw 
again  for  a  week  or  two,  and  dry  it 
stretched  on  cross  sticks,  and  it  will 
be  nearly  as  strong  as  before.  The 
rennet  when  dried  must  be  kept  in 
a  cool  place. 

RESENTMENT.  This  is  a  dan- 
gerous passion,  and  often  fatal  to 
health.  Anger  disorders  the  whole 
frame,  hurries  on  the  circulation  of 
the  blood,  occasions  fevers  and 
other  acute  disorders,  and  some- 
times ends  in  sudden  death.  Resent- 
ment also  preys  upon  the  mind,  and 


RHE 


RHU 


occasions  the  most  obstinate  dis- 
orders, which  gradually  waste  the 
constitution.  Those  who  value 
health  therefore,  will  guard  against 
indulging  this  malignant  propensity, 
and  endeavour  to  preserve  a  happy 
degree  of  tranquillity. 

RHEUMATISM.  In  this  com- 
plaint the  diet  should  be  nourishing, 
with  a  little  generous  wine ;  cos- 
tiveness  must  be  carefully  avoided. 
The  painful  part  should  be  kept 
warm  with  flannel,  should  be  fre- 
quently rubbed,  occasionally  electri- 
fied, and  supplied  with  the  volatile 
liniment.  BUsters,  cataplasms  of 
mustard  or  horseradish,  may  be 
applied  with  advantage.  If  these 
be  not  effectual,  take  a  pint  of  the 
spirits  of  turpentine,  and  add  half 
an  ounce  of  camphor.  Let  it  stand 
till  the  camphor  is  dissolved,  then 
rub  it  on  the  part  aflfected  night  and 
morning,  and  it  will  seldom  fail  to 
afi^ord  effectual  relief.  This  mixture 
is  also  very  proper  for  sprains  and 
bruises,  and  should  be  kept  for  fa- 
mily use.  But  several  of  our  own 
domestic  plants  as  above  may  be 
used  with  advantage  in  the  rheuma- 
tism. One  of  the  best  is  the  white 
mustard.  A  table-spoonful  of  the 
seed  of  this  plant  may  be  taken 
twice  or  thrice  a  day,  in  a,  glass 
of  water  or  small  wine.  The  wa- 
ter trefoil  is  likewise  of  great  use 
in  this  complaint.  It  may  be  in- 
fused in  wine  or  ale,  or  drunk  in  the 
form  of  tea.  The  ground-ivy,  ca- 
momile, and  several  other  bitters, 
are  also  beneficial,  and  may  be  used 
in  the  same  manner.  No  benefit, 
however,  is  to  be  expected  from 
these,  unless  they  be  taken  for  a 
considerable  time.  Cold  bathing, 
especially  in  salt  water,  often  cures 
the  rheumatism.  It  is  also  advisable 
to  take  exercise,  and  wear  flannel 
next  the  skin.  Issues  are  likewise 
very  proper,  especially  in  chronic 
cases.  If  the  pain  affects  the  shoul- 
ders, an  issue  may  be  made  in  the 
arm ;  but  if  it  affects  the  loins«  it 


should  be  put  into  the  leg  or  thigh. 
Such  as  are  subject  to  frequent  at- 
tacks of  the  rheumatism  ought  to 
make  choice  of  a  dry,  waim  situa 
tion,  to  avoid  the  night  air,  wet 
clothes,  and  wet  feet,  as  much  as 
possible.  Their  clothing  should  be 
warm,  and  they  should  wear  flannel 
next  their  skin,  and  make  frequent 
use  of  the  flesh  brush.  One  of  the 
best  articles  of  dress,  not  only  for 
the  prevention  of  rheumatism,  but 
for  powerful  co-operation  in  its 
cure,  is  fleecy  hosiery.  In  low 
marshy  situations,  the  introduction 
of  that  manufacture  has  prevented 
more  rheumatisms,  colds,  and  agues, 
than  all  the  medicines  ever  used 
there.  Such  of  the  inhabitants  of 
marshy  counties  as  are  in  easy  cir- 
cumstances, could  not,  perhaps,  di- 
rect their  charity  and  humanity  to  a 
better  object  than  to  the  supplying 
their  poor  neighbours  with  so  cheap 
and  simple  a  preservative. 

RHUBARB.  By  proper  attention 
in  the  growth  and  preparation  of 
this  root,  it  may  be  obtained  here 
nearly  in  equal  goodness  to  the  fo- 
reign. The  plants  are  all  increased 
by  seeds,  which  should  be  sown  in 
autumn  soon  after  they  are  ripe, 
where  the  plants  are  designed  to 
remain,  as  their  roots  being  large 
and  fleshy  when  they  are  removed, 
they  do  not,recover  it  soon  ;  nor  do 
the  roots  of  such  removed  plants 
ever  grow  so  large  and  fair  as  those 
which  remain  where  they  were  sown. 
When  the  plants  appear  in  the  spring, 
the  ground  should  be  well  hoed  over, 
to  cut  up  the  weeds  ;  and  where 
they  are  too  close,  some  should  be 
cut  up,  leaving  them  at  the  first  hoe- 
ing six  or  eight  inches  asunder  ;  but 
at  the  second  they  may  be  separated 
to  a  foot  and  a  half  distance,  and 
more.  When  any  weeds  appear, 
the  ground  should  be  scuffled  over 
with  a  Dutch  hoe  in  dry  weather ; 
but  after  the  plants  cover  the  ground 
with  their  broad  leaves,  they  keep 
down  the  weeds  without  any  farthcy 
307 


RHU 


RIB 


trouble.  The  ground  should  be 
cleaned  in  autumn  when  the  leares 
decay,  and  in  the  spring,  before  the 
plants  begin  to  put  up  their  new 
leaves,  be  dug  well  between  them. 
In  the  second  year,  many  of  the 
strongest  plants  will  produce  flowers 
and  seeds,  and  in  the  third  year 
most  of  them.  It  is  advised,  that 
the  seeds  be  carefully  gathered  when 
ripe,  and  not  permitted  to  scatter, 
lest  they  grow  and  injure  the  old 
plants.  The  roots  continue  many 
years  without  decaying,  and  the  old 
roots  of  the  true  rhubarb  are  much 
preferable  to  the  young  ones.  The 
roots  may  be  generally  taken  up 
after  four  years,  but  if  they  remain 
longer  it  is  so  much  the  better. 
These  plants  delight  in  a  rich  soil, 
which  is  not  too  dry  nor  over  moist : 
and  where  there  is  depth  in  such 
land  for  their  roots  to  run  down, 
they  attain  a  great  size,  both  in  the 
leaves  and  roots. 

RHUBARB  PIE.  Peel  the  stalks 
of  the  plant,  cut  them  about  an  inch 
long,  put  them  into  a  dish  with  moist 
sugar,  a  little  water  and  lemon  peel. 
Put  on  the  crust,  and  bake  it  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

RHUBARB  PUDDING.  Put 
four  dozen  clean  sticks  of  rhubarb 
into  a  stewpan,  with  the  peel  of  a 
lemon,  a  bit  of  cinnamon,  two  cloves, 
and  as  much  moist  sugar  as  will 
sweeten  it.  Set  it  over  the  fire,  and 
reduce  it  to  a  marmalade.  Pass  it 
through  a  hair  sieve,  then  add  the 
peel  of  a  lemon,  half  a  nutmeg  grated, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  butter, 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  one  white, 
and  mix  all  well  together.  Line  a 
pie  dish  with  good  puff  paste,  put 
in  the  mixture,  and  bake  it  half  an 
hour.  This  will  make  a  good  spring 
pudding.  • 

RHUBARB  SAUCE.  To  make 
a  mock  gooseberry-sauce  for  mack- 
arel,  reduce  three  dozen  sticks  of 
rhubarb  to  a  marmalade,  and  sweet- 
en it  with  moist  sugar.  Pass  it 
through  a  hair  sieve,  and  serve  it  up 
308 


in  a  boat. — Mock  gooseberry-fool  is 
made  of  rhubarb  marmalade,  pre- 
pared as  for  a  pudding.  Add  a  pint 
of  good  thick  cream,  serve  it  up  in 
glasses,  or  in  a  deep  dish.  If  want- 
ed in  a  shape,  dissolve  two  ounces 
of  isinglass  in  a  little  water,  strain 
it  through  a  tammis,  and  when  near- 
ly cold  put  it  to  the  cream.  Pour 
it  into  a  jelly  mould,  and  when  set, 
turn  it  out  into  a  dish,  and  serve  it 
up  plain. 

RHUBARB  SHERBET.  Boil  six 
or  eight  sticks  of  clean  rhubarb  in  a 
quart  of  water,  ten  minutes.  Strain 
the  liquor  through  a  tammis  into  a 
jug,  with  the  peel  of  a  lemon  cut 
very  thin,  and  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  clarified  sugar.  Let  it  stand  five  ^ 
or  six  hours,  and  it  will  be  fit  to 
drink. 

RHUBARB  SOUP.  There  are 
various  ways  of  dressing  garden 
rhubarb,  which  serves  as  an  excel- 
lent substitute  for  spring  fruit.  Peel 
and  well  wash  four  dozen  sticks  of 
rhubarb,  blanch  it  in  water  three  or 
four  minutes,  drain  it  on  a  sieve,  and 
put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  two  sliced 
onions,  a  carrot,  an  ounce  of  lean 
ham,  and  a  good  bit  of  butter.  Let 
it  stew  gently  over  a  slow  fire  till 
tender,  then  put  in  two  quarts  of 
rich  soup,  to  which  add  two  or  three 
ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  and  boil  it 
about  fifteen  minutes.  Skim  off  all, 
the  fat,  season  with  salt  and  cay- 
enne, pass  it  through  a  tammis,  and 
serve  it  up  with  fried  bread. 

RHUBARB    TART.      Cut    the 
stalks  in  lengths  of  four  or  five  inch- 
es, and  take  off  the  thin  skin.     Lay 
them  in  a  dish,  pour  on  a  thin  syrup  ^ 
of  sugar  and  water,  cover  them  with 
another  dish,  and  let  it  simmer  very 
slowly  for  an  hour  on  a  hot  hearth ; 
or  put  the  rhubarb  into  a  block-tin 
saucepan,  and  simmer  it  over  the    J 
fire.     When  cold,   make   it  into  a     * 
tart ;  the  baking  of  the  crust  will 
be  sufficient,  if  the  rhubarb  be  quite 
•  tender. 

RIBS  OF  BEEF     The  following 


RIC 


^IC 


is  an  excelleut  way  of  dressing  this 
rich  and  valuable  joint.  Hang  up 
three  ribs  three  or  four  days,  take 
out  the  bones  from  the  whole  length, 
sprinkle  it  with  salt,  roll  the  meat 
tight,  and  roast  it.  If  done  with 
spices,  and  baked  as  hunter's  beef, 
it  is  excellent,  and  nothing  can  look 
nicer. 

RICE  BROTH.  Put  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  whole  rice  into  a  gallon 
of*  water.  Let  it  simmer  till  it  is 
quite  soft,  then  put  in  a  knuckle  of 
veal,  or  the  scrag  end  of  a  leg  of 
mutton,  with  two  or  three  pounds 
of  gravy  beef.  Stew  this  very  gently 
for  two  hours,  then  put  in  turnips, 
carrots,  celery,  leeks,  or  any  other 
vegetables.  Continue  to  stew  slow- 
ly, and  when  the  whole  is  sufficiently 
done,  season  it  with  salt,  and  serve 
it  up. 

RICE  CAKE.  Mix  ten  ounces 
of  ground  rice,  three  ounces  of  flour, 
and  eight  ounces  of  pounded  sugar. 
Sift  the  composition  by  degrees  into 
eight  yolks  and  six  whites  of  eggs, 
and  the  peel  of  a  lemon  shred  so  fine 
that  it  is  quite  mashed.  Mix  the 
whole  well  in  a  tin  stewpan  with  a 
whisk,  over  a  very  slow  fire.  Put 
it  immediately  into  the  oven  in  the 
same,  and  bake  it  forty  minutes. — • 
Another.  Beat  twelve  yolks  and 
six  whites  of  eggs,  with  the  peels  of 
two  lemons  grated.  Mix  one  pound 
of  rice  flour,  eight  ounces  of  fine 
flour,  and  a  pound  of  sugar  pounded 
and  sifted.  Beat  it  well  with  the 
eggs  by  degrees,  for  an  hour,  with 
a  wooden  spoon.  Butter  a  pan  well, 
and  put  it  in  at  the  oven  mouth. 
A  gentle  oven  will  bake  it  in  an  hour 
and  a  half. 

RICE  CAUDLE.  When  the  wa- 
ter boils,  pour  into  it  some  grated 
rice,  with  a  little  cold  water.  When 
of  a  proper  consistence,  add  sugar, 
lemon  peel,  cinnamon,  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  brandy,  and  boil  all  smooth. 
— Another  way.  Soak  in  water 
some  fine  riqe  for  an  hour,  strain  it, 
and  put  two  spoonfuls  of  the  rice 


into  a  pint  and  a  quarter  of  milk. 
Simmer  till  it  will  pulp  through  a 
sieve,  then  put  the  piilp  and  milk 
into  the  saucepan,  with  a  bruised 
clove,  and  a  bit  of  lump  sugar. 
Simmer  all  together  ten  minutes  ;  if 
too  thick,  add  a  spoonful  or  two  of 
milk,  and  serve  with  thin  toast. 

RICE  CHEESECAKES.  Boil 
four  ounces  of  ground  rice  in  milk, 
with  a  blade  of  cinnamon  :  put  it 
into  a  pot,  and  let  it  stand  till  the 
next  day.  Mash  it  fine  with  half  a 
pound  of  butter;  add  to  it  four  eggs, 
half  a  pint  of  cream,  a  grated  nut- 
meg, a  glass  of  brandy,  and  a  little 
sugar.  Or  the  butter  may  be  stir- 
red and  melted  in  the  rice  while  it 
is  hot,  and  left  in  the  pot  till  the 
next  dav. 

RICE  CUSTARD.  Boil  three 
pints  of  new  milk  with  a  little  cin- 
namon, lemon  peel,  and  sugar.  Mix 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
with  a  large  spoonful  of  rice  flour, 
smothered  in  a  cup  of  cold  milk. 
Take  a  basin  of  the  boiling  milk,  mix 
it  with  the  cold  that  has  the  rice  in 
it,  and  add  it  to  the  remainder  of 
the  boiling  milk,  stirring  it  one  way 
till  it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour  it  into 
a  pan,  stir  it  is  till  it  cool,  and  add 
a  spoonful  of  brandy  or  orange  wa- 
ter. This  is  a  good  imitation  of 
cream  custard,  and  considerably 
cheaper. 

RICE  JUDGING.  After  soaking 
and  picking  some  fine  Carolina  rice, 
boil  it  in  salt  and  water,  until  suf- 
ficiently tender,  but  not  to  .mash. 
Drain,  and  put  it  round  the  inner 
edge  of  the  dish,  to  the  height  of 
two  inches.  Smooth  it  with  the  back 
of  a  spoon,  wash  it  over  with  the 
yolk  of  an  eg^,  and  put  it  into  the 
oven  for  three  or  four  minutes.  This 
forms  an  agreeable  edging  for  currie 
or  fricassee,  with  the  meat  served  in 
the  middle. 

RICE  FLUMMERY.     Boil  with 

a  pint  of  new  milk,  a  bit  of  lemon 

peel  and  cinnamon.     Mix  with  a  litr 

tie  cold  milk  as  much  rice  flour  as 

309 


RIC 


RIC 


will  make  the  whole  of  a  good  con- 
sistence, add  a  little  sugar,  and  a 
spoonful  of  peach  water,  or  a  bitter 
almond  beaten.  Boil  it,  but  do  not 
let  it  burn  ;  pour  it  into  a  shape  or 
pint  basin,  taking  out  the  spice. 
When  cold,  turn  the  flummery  into 
a  dish,  and  serve  with  cream,  milk, 
or  custard  round.  Or  put  a  tea- 
cupful  of  cream  into  half  a  pint  of 
new  milk,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  half 
a  lemon  squeezed,  and  sugar. 

RICE  MILK.  Boil  half  a  pound 
of  rice  in  a  quart  of  water,  with  a 
bit  of  cinnamon,  till  the  water  is 
wasted.  Add  three  pints  of  milk, 
an  egg  beaten  up  with  a  spoonful 
of  flour,  and  stir  it  till  it  boils. 
Then  pour  it  out,  sweeten  it,  and  put 
in  currants  and  nutmeg. 

RICE  PANCAKES.  Boil  half  a 
pound  of  rice  to  a  jelly  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water ;  when  cold,  mix 
it  with  a  pint  of  cream,  eight  eggs, 
a  little  salt  and  nutmeg.  Stir  in 
eight  ounces  of  butter  just  warmed, 
and  add  flour  suflicient  to  thicken 
the  batter.  Fry  in  as  little  lard  or 
dripping  as  possible. 

RICE  PASTE.  To  make  a  rice 
paste  for  sweets,  boil  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  ground  rice  in  the  smallest 
quantity  of  water.  Strain  from  it 
all  the  moisture  possible,  beat  it  in 
a  mortar  with  half  an  ounce  of  but- 
ter, and  one  egg  well  beaten.  It 
will  make  an  excellent  paste  for 
tarts,  and  other  sweet  dishes. — To 
make  a  rich  paste  for  relishing 
things,  clean  some  rice,  and  put  it 
into  a  saucepan.  Add  a  little  milk 
and  water,  or  milk  only,  and  an 
onion,  and  simmer  it  over  the  fire 
till  it  swells.  Put  some  seasoned 
chops  into  a  dish,  and  cover  it  with 
the  rice.  The  addition  of  an  egg 
will  make  the  rice  bind  the  better. 
Rabbits  fricasseed,  and  covered  with 
rice  paste,  are  very  good. 

RICE  PUDDING.     If  for  family 

use,  swell  the  rice  with  a  very  little 

milk  over  the  fire.     Then  add  more 

milk,  an  egg,  some  sugar,  allspice, 

310 


and  lemon  peel;  and  bake  it  in  a 
deep  dish.  Or  put  into  a  deep  pan 
half  a  pound  of  rice  washed  and 
picked,  two  ounces  of  butter,  four 
ounces  of  sugar,  a  little  pounded  all- 
spice, and  two  quarts  of  milk.  Less 
butter  will  do,  or  some  suet :  bake 
the  pudding  in  a  slow  oven.  Ano- 
ther. Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
rice  in  a  quart  of  milk,  with  a  stick 
of  cinnamon,  till  it  is  thick ;  stir  it 
often,  that  it  does  not  burn  ;  pour 
it  into  a  pan,  stir  in  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  grate  half  a 
nutmeg  ;  add  sugar  to  your  taste, 
and  a  small  tea-cup  of  rose-water ; 
stir  all  together  till  cold  ;  beat  up 
eight  eggs,  (leave  out  half  the  whites) 
stir  all  well  together,  lay  a  thin  puff 
paste  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and 
nip  the  edge  ;  then  pour  in  the  pud- 
ding and  bake  it. — Another.  To 
make  a  plain  rice  pudding,  put  half 
a  pound  of  rice  well  picked,  into 
three  quarts  of  milk  ;  add  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  a  small  nutmeg 
grated,  and  half  a  pound  of  butter  5 
butter  the  dish  with  part,  and  break 
the  rest  into  the  milk  and  rice  ;  stir 
all  well  together,  pour  it  into  a  dish, 
and  bake  it. —Another.  To  make  a 
boiled  rice  pudding,  take  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  rice  well  picked  and 
washed,  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  leaving 
room  for  it  to  swell  ;  boil  it  for  an 
hour  ;  take  it  up  and  stir  in  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  butter,  some  nut- 
meg and  sugar ;  tie  it  up  again 
very  tight,  and  boil  it  an  hour  more. 
When  you  send  it  to  table,  pour 
butter  and  sugar  over  it. — Another. 
To  make  a  ground  rice  pudding. 
To  a  pint  of  milk  put  four  ounces  of 
ground  rice ;  boil  it  for  some  time, 
keeping  it  stirring,  lest  it  should 
burn  ;  pour  it  into  a  pan,  and  stir  in 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter ; 
then  beat  up  six  eggs,  leaving  out 
half  the  whites,  a  little  lemon  peel 
finely  shred,  a  little  nutmeg  grated, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  gill 
of  cream,  a  little  rose-water,  and  as 
much  salt  as  you  can  take  up  be- 


RIC 


RIC 


tween  your  thumb  and  finger  ;  mix 
all  well  together,  make  a  pufF  paste, 
lay  it  round  the  rim  of  the  dish, 
and  bake  it. — Lay  citron  or  orange 
cut  very  thin,  on  the  top,  and  strew 
a  few  currants  on. — Another.  To 
make  rice  pudding  with  fruit.  Swell 
half  a  pound  of  rice  with  a  very 
little  milk  over  the  fire,  and  then 
mix  with  it  any  kind  of  fruit ;  auch 
as  currants,  scalded  gooseberries, 
pared  and  quartered  apples,  raisins, 
or  black  currants.  Put  an  egg  into 
the  pudding  to  bind  it,  boil  it  well, 
and  serve  it  up  with  sugar. 

RICE  SAUCE.  Steep  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  rice  in  a  pint  of  milk, 
with  an  onion,  a  dozen  pepper  corns 
or  allspice,  and  a  little  mace.  When 
the  rice  is  quite  tender,  take  out  the 
spice,  and  rub  the  rice  through  a 
sieve  into  a  clean  stewpan  :  if  too 
thick,  put  a  little  milk  or  cream  to 
it.  This  makes  a  very  delicate 
white  sauce  ;  and  at  elegant  tables, 
is  frequently  used  instead  of  bread 
sauce. 

RICE  SOUFFLE.  Blanch  some 
Carolina  rice,  strain  and  boil  it 
in  milk,  with  lemon  peel  and  a  bit 
of  cinnamon.  Let  it  boil  till  the 
rice  is  dry ;  then  cool  it,  and  raise 
a  rim  three  inches  high  round  the 
dish,  having  egged  the  dish  where 
it  is  put,  to  make  it  stick.  Then 
egg  the  rice  all  over.  Fill  the 
dish  half  way  up  with  a  marma- 
lade of  apples ;  have  ready  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a 
fine  froth,  and  put  them  over  the 
marmalade.  Sift  fine  sugar  over, 
and  set  it  in  the  oven,  which  should 
be  warm  enough  to  give  it  a  beau- 
tiful colour. 

RICE  SOUP.  Boil  a  pound  of 
rice  with  a  little  cinnamon,  in  two 
quarts  of  water.  Take  out  the  cin- 
namon, add  a  little  sugar  and  nut- 
meg, and  let  it  stand  to  cool.  Then 
beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  in  a 
little  white  wine,  and  mix  it  with 
the  rice.     Set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  stir 


it  well,  and  take  it  up  as  soon  as  it 
has  boiled  to  a  proper  thickness. 

RICH  GIBLET  SOUP.  Take 
four  pounds  of  gravy  beef,  two 
pounds  of  scrag  of  mutton,  two 
pounds  of  scrag  of  veal ;  stew  them 
well  down  together  in  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  water  for  a  strong  broth, 
let  it  stand  till  it  is  quite  cold,  then 
skim  the  fat  clean  off^.  Take  two 
pair  of  giblets  well  scalded  and 
cleaned,  put  them  into  your  broth, 
and  let  them  simmer  till  they  are 
stewed  tender;  then  take  out  your 
giblets,  and  run  the  soup  through  a 
fine  sieve  to  catch  the  small  bones  ; 
then  take  an  ounce  of  butter  and 
put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  mixing  a  pro- 
per quantity  of  flour,  which  make  of 
a  fine  light  brown.  Take  a  small 
handful  of  chives,  the  same  of  pars- 
ley, a  very  little  penny -royal,  and 
a  very  little  sweet  marjoram ;  chop 
all  these  herbs  together  excessive 
small,  put  your  soup  over  a  slow 
fire,  put  in  your  giblets,  butter  and 
flour,  and  small  herbs  ;  then  take  a 
pint  of  Madeira  wine,  some  cayenne 
pepper,  and  salt  to  your  palate. 
Let  them  all  simmer  together,  till 
the  herbs  are  tender,  and  the  soup 
is  finished.  Send  it  to  the  table 
with  the  giblets  in  it.  Let  the 
livers  be  stewed  in  a  saucepan  by 
themselves,  and  put  in  when  you 
dish. 

RICH  GRAVY.  Cut  lean  beef 
into  small  slices,  according  to  the 
quantity  wanted  ;  slice  some  onions 
thin,  and  flour  them  both.  Fry  them 
of  alight  pale  brown,  but  do  not  suf- 
fer them  on  any  account  to  get 
black.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan, 
pour  boiling  water  on  the  browning 
in  the  fryingpan,  boil  it  up,  and  pour 
it  on  the  meat.  Add  a  bunch  of  pars- 
ley, thyme,  and  savoury,  a  small 
piece  of  marjoram,  the  same  of  tara- 
gon,  some  mace,  berries  of  allspice, 
whole  black  pepper,  a  clove  or  two, 
and  a  bit  of  ham,  or  gammon  of  ba- 
con. Simmer  till  the  juice  of  the 
311 


i 


RIC 


RIC 


meat  is  extracted,  and  skim  it  the 
moment  it  boils.  If  for  a  hare,  or 
stewed  fish,  anchovy  should  be 
added. 

RICH  GRAVY  SOUP.  Take  a 
pound  of  lean  beef,  two  pounds  of 
Teal,  and  a  pound  of  mutton  cut  in 
pieces  ;  put  them  into  a  pot,  with 
six  quarts  of  water,  a  large  faggot  of 
sweet  herbs,  an  onion  stuck  with 
cloves,  some  whole  pepper,  a  little 
mace,  and  the  upper  crust  of  bread 
toasted  brown.  Put  in  an  ox  pa- 
late well  cleaned  and  blanched 
whole  ;  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  and 
let  it  stew  till  half  is  wasted ; 
strain  it  off,  and  put  it  into  a  clean 
saucepan.  Take  off  the  ox  palate, 
shred  small,  some  cock's  combs 
blanched,  an  ounce  of  morels  cut  in 
pieces,  four  large  heads  of  celery 
well  washed,  and  cut  small,  with  the 
heart  of  four  or  five  savoys,  about  as 
big  as  a  turkey's  egg,  put  in  whole  ; 
cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stew  softly 
for  an  hour  and  a  half.  If  it  want 
any  more  seasoning,  add  it;  cut  some 
French  bread  toasts  thin,  and  crisp 
them  before  the  fire.  When  your 
soup  is  ready,  lay  your  bread  in  the 
dish,  and  put  in  your  soup. 

RICH  HOME-MADE  WINE— 
Take  new  cider  from  the  press,  mix 
it  with  as  much  honey  as  will  sup- 
port an  egg,  boil  it  gently  fifteen  mi- 
nutes, but  not  in  an  iron,  brass,  or 
copper  pot.     Skim  it  well,  and  tun 
it  when  cool,  but  the  cask  must  not 
be  quite  full.     Bottle  it  in  the  follow- 
ing March,  and  it  will  be  fit  to  drink 
^  in  six  weeks,  but  it  will  be  less  s\\eet 
if  kept  longer  in  the  cask.     This  will 
make  a  rich  and  strong  wine,  suita- 
ble for  culinary  purposes,  where  milk 
or  sweet  wine  is  to  be  employed. 
Honey,   besides   its   other  valuable 
uses,  is  a  fine  ingredient  to  assist  and 
render  palatable,  new  or  harsh  cider. 
RICH   PLUM    PUDDING.     Toi^ 
make  a  small,  but  very  rich  plum 
pudding,  shred  fine  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  suet,  and  half  a  pound 
312 


of  stoned  raisins,  chopped  a  little. 
Add  three  spoonfuls  of  flour,  as  much 
moist  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg, 
the  yolks  of  three,  and  the  whites  of 
two  eggs.  Let  it  boil  four  hours  in 
a  basin  or  tin  mould,  well  buttered. 
When  the  pudding  is  served  up,  pour 
over  it  some  melted  butter,  with 
white  wine  and  sugar. — For  a  larger 
pudding  of  the  same  description, 
shred  three  pounds  of  suet ;  add  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  raisins  stoned 
and  chopped,  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
currants,  three  pounds  of  good  flour, 
sixteen  eggs,  and  a  quart  of  milk. 
Boil  it  in  a  cloth  seven  hours. 

RICH  RICE  PUDDING.  Boil 
half  a  pound  of  rice  in  water,  till  it 
is  quite  tender,  adding  a  little  salt. 
Drain  it  dry,  mix  it  with  four  eggs, 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream,  and 
two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  melted  in 
the  cream.  Add  four  ounces  of  beef 
suet  or  marrow,  or  veal  suet  taken 
from  the  fillet,  finely  shred  ;  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  currants,  two 
spoonfuls  of  brandy,  a  spoonful  of 
peach  water  or  ratifia,  nutmeg,  and 
grated  lemon  peel.  When  well  mix- 
ed, put  a  paste  round  the  edge,  fill 
the  dish,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Slices  of  candied  orange, 
lemon,  and  citron,  may  be  added. 

RICKETS.  This  disease  gene- 
rally attacks  children  between  the 
age  of  nine  months  and  two  years ; 
and  as  it  is  always  attended  with 
evident  signs  of  weakness  and  re- 
laxation, the  chief  aim  in  the  cure 
must  be  to  brace  and  strengthen 
the  solids,  and  to  promote  digestion 
and  the  due  preparation  of  the  fluids. 
These  important  ends  will  be  best 
answered  by  wholesome  nourishing 
diet,  suited  to  the  age  and  strength 
of  the  patient,  open  dry  air,  and  suf- 
flcient  exercise.  The  limbs  should 
be  rubbed  frequently  with  a  warm 
:  hand,  and  the  child  kept  as  cheer- 
ful as  possible.  Biscuit  is  generally 
reckoned  the  best  bread  ;  and  pi- 
geons, pullet,  veal,  rabbits,  or  mut- 


RO  A 


no  A 


ton  roasted  or  minced,  are  the  most 
proper  meat.  If  the  child  be  too 
young  for  animal  food,  he  may  have 
rice,  millet,  or  pearl  barley,  boiled 
with  raisins,  to  which  may  be  add- 
ed a  little  wine  and  spice.  His 
drink  may  be  good  claret,  mixed 
with  ^  an  equal  quantity  of  water. 
Those  who  cannot  afford  claret, 
may  give  the  child  now  and  then  a 
wine  gla  ,  of  mild  ale,  or  good 
porter.  The  disease  may  often  be 
cured  by  the  nurse,  but  seldom  by 
the  physician.  In  children  of  a 
gross  habit,  gentle  vomits  and  re- 
peated purges  of  rhubarb  may  some- 
times be  of  use,  but  they  will  sel- 
dom carry  off  the  disease  ;  that 
must  depend  chiefly  upon  such 
things  as  brace  and  strengthen  the 
system  ;  for  which  purpose,  besides 
the  regimen  mentioned  above,  the 
cold  bath,  especially  in  the  warm 
season,  is  highly  recommended.  It 
must,  however,  be  used  with  pru- 
dence, as  some  ricketty  children 
cannot  bear  it.  The  best  time  for 
using  the  cold  bath  is  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  the  child  should  be  well 
rubbed  with  a  dry  cloth  immediately 
after  he  comes  out  of  it. 

RING  WORM.  This  eruption, 
which  generally  appears  on  the  head, 
in  a  circular  form,  attended  with 
painful  itching,  is  sometimes  remov- 
ed by  rubbing  it  with  black  ink,  or 
mushroom  ketchup.  The  following 
preparation  is  also  recommended. 
Wash  some  roots  of  sorrel  quite  clean, 
bruise  them  in  a  mortar,  and  steep 
them  in  white  wine  vinegar  for  two 
or  three  days.  Then  rub  the  liquor 
on  the  ring  worm  three  or  four  times 
a  day,  till  it  begin  to  disappear. 

ROASTING.  The  first  requisite 
for.  roasting  is  to  have  a  clear  brisk 
fire,  proportioned  to  the  joint  that 
is  to  be  roasted  ;  without  this  every 
attempt  must  prove  abortive.  Next 
to  see  that  the  spit  is  properly 
cleaned  before  it  enters  the  meat, 
and  the  less  it  passes  through  it  the 
better.  Neck  and  loins  require  to 
(No.  14.) 


be  carefully  jointed  before  they  aic 
put  on  the  spit,  that  the  carver  may 
separate  them  easily  and  neatly. 
The  joint  should  be  balanced  evenly 
on  the  spit,  that  its  motion  may  be 
regular,  and  the  fire  operate  equally 
on  every  part ;  for  this  purpose 
cook-holds  and  balancing  skewers 
are  necessary.  All  roasting  should 
be  done  open  to  the  air,  to  ventilate 
the  meat  from  its  own  fumes,  and 
by  the  radiant  heat  of  a  glowing 
fire  ;  otherwise  it  is  in  fact  baked, 
and  rendered  less  wholesome. 
Hence  what  are  called  Rumford 
roasters,  and  the  machines  invented 
by  economical  gratemakers,  are  ut- 
terly to  be  rejected.  If  they  save 
any  thing  in  fuel,  which  is  doubtful, 
they  are  highly  injurious  to  the  fla- 
vour and  best  qualities  of  the  meat. 
For  the  same  reason,  when  a  joint 
is  dressed,  it  is  better  to  keep  it  hot 
by  the  fire,  than  to  put  it  under  a 
cover,  that  the  exhalations  may 
freely  escape.  In  making  up  the 
fire  for  roasting,  it  should  be  three 
or  four  inches  longer  at  each  end 
than  the  article  on  the  spit,  or  the 
ends  of  the  meat  cannot  be  done 
nice  and  brown.  Half  an  hour  at 
least  before  the  roasting  begins, 
prepare  the  fire,  by  putting  on  a 
few  coals  so  as  to  be  sufficiently 
lighted  by  the  time  the  fire  is  want- 
ed. Put  some  of  them  between  the 
bars,  and  small  coals  or  cinders 
wetted  at  the  back  of  the  fire ;  and 
never  put  down  meat  to  a  burnt  up 
fire.  In  small  families,  not  pro- 
vided with  a  jack  or  spit,  a  bottle 
jack,  sold  by  the  ironmongers,  is  a 
valuable  instrument  for  roasting ; 
and  where  this  cannot  be  had,  a 
skewer  and  a  string,  or  rather  a 
quantity  of  coarse  yarn  loosely 
twisted,  is  as  philosophical  as  any 
of  them,  and  will  answer  the  pur- 
pose as  well.  Do  not  put  meat  too 
near  the  fire  at  first.  The  larger 
the  joint,  the  farther  it  must  be 
kept  from  the  fire :  if  once  it  gets 
scorched,  the  outside  will  became 
s  s  313 


RO  A 


RO  A 


h^d,  and  acquire  a  disagreeable 
taste.  If  the  fire  is  prevented  from 
penetrating  into  it,  the  meat  will 
appear  done,  before  it  is  little  more 
than  half  ready,  besides  losing  the 
pale  brown  colour  which  is  the 
beauty  of  roast  meat.  From  ten 
to  fourteen  inches  is  the  usual  dis- 
tance at  which  it  is  put  from  the 
grate,  when  first  laid  down  ;  and 
afterwards  it  should  be  brought 
nearer  by  degrees.  If  the  joint  is 
thicker  at  one  end  than  the  other, 
lay  the  spit  slanting,  with  the  thick- 
est part  nearest  the  fire.  When  the 
article  is  thin  and  tender,  the  fire 
should  be  small  and  brisk  ;  but  for 
a  large  joint  the  fire  should  be 
strong,  and  equally  good  in  every 
part  of  the  grate,  or  the  meat  cannot 
be  equally  roasted,  nor  possess 
that  uniform  colour  which  is  the 
test  of  good  cooking.  Give  the  fire 
a  good  stirring  before  the  meat  is 
laid  down,  keep  it  clear  at  the  bot- 
tom, and  take  care  that  there  are  no 
smoky  coals  in  the  front,  to  spoil 
the  look  and  taste  of  the  meat.  If 
a  jack  be  used,  it  should  be  care- 
fully oiled  and  kept  clean,  and  co- 
vered from  the  dust,  or  it  will  never 
go  well.  The  dripping  pan  should 
be  placed  at  such  a  distance  from 
the  fire  as  just  to  catch  the  drip- 
pings ;  if  it  be  too  near,  the  ashes 
will  fall  into  it,  and  spoil  the  drip- 
pings. If  too  far  from  the  fire  to 
catch  them,  the  drippings  will  not 
only  be  lost,  but  the  meat  will  be 
blackened,  and  spoiled  by  the  fetid 
smoke,  which  will  arise  when  the 
fat  falls  on  the  live  cinders.  The 
meat  must  be  well  basted,  to  keep 
t  moist.  When  it  does  not  supply 
dripping  enough  for  this  purpose, 
add  some  that  has  been  saved  on 
former  occasions,  and  nicely  pre- 
pared, which  answers  as  well  or 
better  than  butter.  Meat  should 
not  be  sprinkled  with  salt  till  nearly 
done,  as  it  tends  to  draw  out  the 
gravy.  Basting  with  a  little  salt 
and   water,  when  the  meat  is  first 

:n4 


laid  down,  is  often  done,  but  the 
practice  is  not  good.  Where  the 
fat  is  very  fine  and  delicate,  it  is 
best  to  cover  it  with  writing  paper 
to  prevent  its  wasting  ;  but  in  ge- 
neral it  is  as  well  to  expose  it  to  the 
action  of  the  fire,  and  let  it  fall  into 
the  dripping  pan.  Half  an  hour  be- 
fore the  meat  is  done,  prepare  some 
gravy  if  necessary  ;  and  just  before 
it  is  taken  up,  put  it  nearer  the  fire 
to  brown  it.  If  it  is  to  be  frothed, 
baste  and  dredge  it  carefully  with 
flour.  The  common  fault  is  that  of 
using  too  much  flour ;  the  meat 
should  have  a  fine  light  varnish  of 
froth,  not  the  appearance  of  being 
covered  with  a  paste  ;  and  those 
who  are  particular  about  the  froth, 
use  butter  instead  of  dripping. 
When  the  roast  is  quite  done,  it  is 
best  to  take  it  up  directly,  as  every 
moment  beyond  doing  it  enough 
does  it  an  injury.  If  it  cannot  be 
sent  to  table  immediately,  which  is 
most  desirable,  it  should  be  kept 
hot,  but  so  as  to  suflfer  the  fumes  to 
escape.  With  respect  to  the  time 
required  for  roasting,  the  general 
rule  of  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  a  m 
pound  of  meat,  is  a  pretty  fair  one,  ^ 
but  it  will  not  do  for  all  kinds  oi 
joints.  The  use  of  a  meat  screen 
must  also  be  considered,  as  it  tends 
materially  to  assist  the  operation,  j 
by  concentrating  the  heat,  and  ex-  / 1 
eluding  the  cold  drafts  of  air.  At- 
tention must  be  paid  to  the  nature 
of  the  joint,  whether  thick  or  thin, 
the  strength  of  the  fire,  the  nearness 
of  the  meat  to  it,  and  the  frequency 
with  which  it  is  basted.  The  more 
it  is  basted  the  less  time  it  will  take, 
as  it  keeps  the  meat  soft  and  mel- 
low on  the  outside,  and  the  fire  acts 
upon  it  with  greater  force.  Much 
will  depend  on  the  time  the  meat 
has  been  kept,  and  on  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  weather.  The  same 
weight  will  be  twenty  minutes  or 
half  an  hour  longer  in  cold  weather,  • 
than  it  will  be  in  warm  weather  ; 
and  when  the  meat  is  fresh  slain. 


RO  A 


Rb*A 


Xban  when  it  has  been  kept  till  it  is 
lender.  If  meat  get  frozen,  it  should 
be  thawed  by  lying  some  time  in 
cold  water  ;  and  then  be  well  dried 
in  a  clean  cloth,  before  it  is  laid 
down  to  the  fire.  A  sirloin  of  Beef, 
weighing  from  twenty-five  to  thirty 
pounds,  will  generally  take  four 
hours  ;  a  part  of  it,  from  twelve  to 
fifteen  pounds,  two  hours  and  three 
quarters,  or  three  hours.  A  piece 
of  ribs  of  the  same  weight,  much 
ihe  same  time,  and  a  rump  four 
liours.  A  sheet  of  paper  should  be 
tied  over  the  thin  part,  or  it  will 
burn  before  the  thick  part  is  done 
enough.  A  leg  of  Mutton,  weigh- 
ing eight  or  nine  pounds,  will  require 
two  hours  and  a  quarter ;  a  shoul- 
der of  seven  pounds,  an  hour  and 
three  quarters  ;  a  chine  of  ten  or 
eleven  pounds,  two  hours  and  a 
half;  a  loin,  rather  more  than  an 
hour  and  a  half;  a  neck,  the  same; 
a  breast,  an  hour.  A  haunch  of 
mutton  should  be  dressed  like  veni- 
son, only  in  proportion  as  it  may 
be  less,  it  must  not  roast  quite  so 
long.  A  fillet  of  Veal,  from  twelve 
to  fourteen  pounds  weight,  requires 
three  hours  and  twenty  minutes. 
This  is  usually  stuffed,  either  in  the 
place  of  the  bone,  when  that  is 
taken  out,  or  under  the  flap.  A  loin 
takes  two  hours  and  a  half,  a  shoul- 
der two  hours  and  twenty  minutes, 
a  neck  nearly  two  hours,  and  a 
breast  an  hour  and  a  half.  These 
directions  suppose  the  joints  to  be 
of  a  common  size.  If  they  are  very 
thick,  a  little  more  time  must  be  al- 
lowed. When  veal  is  quite  small, 
the  time  must  be  reduced  accord- 
ingly. A  quarter  of  Lamb,  of  a 
moderate  size,  will  require  two 
hours  ;  a  leg,  an  hour  and  forty  mi- 
nutes ;  a  shoulder,  an  hour  and 
twenty  minutes ;  a  loin,  the  same  ; 
a  neck,  an  hour  and  ten  mi- 
nutes ;  a  breast,  three  quarters  of 
an  hour ;  and  ribs,  an  hour  and  a 
half.  A  leg  of  Pork,  weighing 
seven  pounds,   will  require  nearly 


two  hours  ;  a  loiu  of  five  pounds, 
an  hour  and  twenty  minutes.  Both 
these  should  be  scored  across  in 
narrow  stripes,  before  they  are  laid 
down  to  the  fire.  A  sparerib  of 
eight  or  nine  pounds,  will  take  an 
hour  and  three  quarters ;  a  griskiu 
of  six  or  seven  pounds,  an  hour  and 
a  quarter  ;  a  chine,  if  parted  down 
the  back-bone  so  as  to  have  but  one 
side,  two  hours ;  if  not  parted,  it 
will  take  four  hours. — The  Bast- 
ings proper  for  roast  meat,  are 
fresh  butter,  clarified  suet,  salt  and 
water,  yolks  of  eggs,  grated  biscuit, 
and  orange  juice.  For  mutton  and 
lamb,  minced  sweet  herbs,  butter 
and  claret ;  and  for  roast  pig,  melt- 
ed butter  and  cream.  The  Dredg- 
INGS,  are  flour  mixed  with  grated 
bread  ;  sweet  herbs  dried  and  pow- 
dered, and  mixed  with  grated  bread  ; 
lemon  peel  dried  and  pounded,  or 
orange  peel  mixed  with  flour  ;  sugar 
finely  powdered,  and  mixed  with 
pounded  cinnamon,  and  flour,  or 
grated  bread  ;  fennel  seeds,  cori- 
anders,  cinnamon,  sugar  finely  pow- 
dered, and  mixed  with  grated  bread 
or  flour ;  sugar,  bread,  and  salt 
mixed.  For  young  pigs,  grated 
bread  or  flour  mixed  with  pounded 
nutmeg,  ginger,  pepper,  sugar,  and 
yolks  of  eggs. 

ROAST  BEEF.  Take  care  that 
your  spit  and  dripping-pan  be  very 
clean  ;  4ind  to  prepare  your  fire  ac- 
cording to  the  size  of  the  joint  you 
have  to  dress.  If  it  be  a  sirloin  or 
chump,  butter  a  piece  of  writing 
paper,  and  fasten  it  on  to  the  back 
of  your  meat,  with  small  skewers, 
and  lay  it  down  to  a  good  clear  fire, 
at  a  proper  distance.  As  soon  as 
your  meat  is  warm,  dust  on  some 
flour,  and  baste  it  with  butter  ;  then 
sprinkle  some  salt,  and  at  times 
baste  with  what  drips  from  it.  About 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  you 
take  it  up,  remove  the  paper,  dust 
on  a  little  flour,  and  baste  with  a 
piece  of  butter,  that  it  may  go  to 
table  with  a  good  froth,  but  not 
315 


^  R  O  A 

look  greasy.  A  piece  of  ten  pounds 
requires  about  two  hours  and  a  half, 
and  others  in  proportion.  Salad 
and  vegetables  are  eaten  with  it, 
also  mustard  and  horseradish. 

ROAST  CALF'S  HEAD.  Wash 
the  head  very  clean,  take  out  the 
brains,  and  dry  it  well  with  a  cloth. 
Make  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt, 
nutmeg,, and  cloves  ;  add  a  slice  of 
bacon  finely  minced,  and  some 
grated  bread.  Strew  the  seasoning 
over  the  head,  roll  it  up,  skewer  and 
tie  it  close  with  tape.  Roast  and 
bastt  it  with  butter.  Make  veal 
gravy  thickened  with  butter  roiled 
in  flour,  and  garnish  the  edge  of  the 
dish  with  fried  brains. 

ROAST  CALF'S  LIVER.  Cut 
a  hole  in  the  liver,  and  stuff  it  with 
crumbs  of  bread,  mixed  with  chop- 
ped onions  and  herbs,  salt,  pepper, 
f  butter,  and  an  egg.  Sew  up  the 
liver,  wrap  it  up  in  a  veal  caul,  and 
roast  it.  Serve  it  up  with  brown 
gravy,  and  currant  jelly. 

ROAST  CHEESE.  Grate  three 
ounces  of  fat  Cheshire  cheese,  mix 
it  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  four 
ounces  of  grated  bread,  and  three 
ounces  of  butter.  Beat  the  whole 
well  in  a  mortar,  with  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  mustard,  and  a  little  salt 
and  pepper.  Toast  some  bread,  cut 
it  into  proper  pieces,  lay  the  above 
paste  thick  upon  them,  and  lay  them 
into  a  Dutch  oven  covered  with  a 
dish  till  they  are  hot  through.  Re- 
move the  dish,  to  let  the  paste  brown 
a  little,  and  serve  it  up  as  hot  as 
possible,  immediatelv  after  dinner. 
ROAST  CHICKENS.  Being 
-|^  cleaned  and  trussed,  put  them  down 
to  a  good  fire.  Singe  them,  dust 
them  with  flour,  and  baste  them  well 
with  butter.  Make  gravy  of  their 
necks  and  gizzards,  or  of  beef. 
Strain  the  gravy,  and  pour  it  into 
the  dish,  adding  parsley  and  butter, 
or  egg  sauce. 

ROAST     COLLARED    BEEF. 
Take  out  the  inside  meat  from  a  sir- 
loin of  beef,  sprinkle  it  with  vinegar, 
316 


RO  A 

and  let  it  hang  till  the  next  day* 
Prepare  a  stuffing  as  for  a  hare,  put 
this  at  one  end  of  the  meat,  roll  the 
rest  round  it,  bind  it  very  close,  and 
roast  it  gently  for  an  hour  and  three 
quarters,  or  a  little  more  or  less, 
proportioned  to  the  thickness.  Serve 
it  up  Avith  gravy  the  same  as  for 
hare,  and  with  currant  jelly. 

ROAST  COLLARED  MUT- 
TON. If  a  loin  of  mutton  has  been 
collared,  take  off  the  fat  from  the 
upper  side,  and  the  meat  from  the 
under  side.  Bone  the  joint,  season 
it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  some 
shalot  or  sweet  herbs,  chopped  very 
small.  Let  it  be  rolled  up  very 
tight,  well  tied  round,  and  roasted 
gently.  About  an  hour  and  a  half 
will  do  it.  While  this  is  roasting, 
half  boil  the  meat  taken  from  the 
under  side,  then  mince  it  small,  put 
it  into  half  a  pint  of  gravy  ;  and 
against  the  time  that  the  mutton  is 
ready,  heat  this  and  pour  it  into  the 
dish  when  it  is  served  up. 

ROAST  COLLARED  PORK. 
When  a  neck  of  pork  has  been  col- 
lared, and  is  intended  for  roasting, 
the  bones  must  be  taken  out.  Strew 
the  inside  with  bread  crumbs,  chop- 
ped sage,  a  very  little  pounded  all- 
spice, some  pepper  and  salt,  all 
mixed  together.  Roll  it  up  very 
close,  bind  it  tight,  and  roast  it 
gently.  An  hour  and  a  half  or  little 
more,  according  to  the  thickness, 
will  roast  it  enough.  A  loin  of  pork 
with  the  fat  and  kidney  taken  out 
and  boned,  and  a  forehand  of  pork 
boned,  are  very  nice  dressed  in  the 
same  way. 

ROAST  DUCK.  If  two  are 
dressed,  let  one  of  them  be  unsea- 
soned, in  order  to  suit  the  company. 
Stuff  the  other  with  sage  and  onion, 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  crumbs,  a  bit 
of  butter,  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Serve  them  up  with  a  fine  gravy. 

ROAST  EEL.  Take  a  good  large 
silver  eel,  draw  and  skin  it,  and  cut 
it  it  in  pieces  of  four  inches  long. 
Spit  them  crossways  on  a  small  spit. 


RO  A 


K  O  A 


with  bay  leaves,  or  large  sage  leaves 
between  each  piece.  When  roast- 
ed, serve  up  the  fish  with  butter 
beaten  with  orange  or  lemon  juice, 
and  some  grated  nutmeg.  Or  serve 
it  with  venison  sauce,  and  dredge  it 
with  pounded  carraway  seeds,  cin- 
namon, or  grated  bread. 

ROAST  FOWL.  A  large  barn- 
door fowl,  well  hung,  should  be 
stuffed  in  the  crop  with  sausage 
meat.  The  head  should  be  turned 
under  the  wing,  as  a  turkey.  Serve 
with  gravy  in  the  dish,  and  bread 
sauce.  Roast  fowl  in  general  may 
be  garnished  with  sausages,  or 
scalded  parsley.  Egg  sauce  or  bread 
sauce  are  equally  proper. 

ROAST  GOOSE.  After  the  fowl 
is  picked,  the  plugs  of  the  feathers 
pulled  out,  and  the  hairs  carefully 
singed,  let  it  be  well  washed  and 
dried.  Put  in  a  seasoning  of  shred 
onion  and  sage,  pepper  and  salt. 
Fasten  it  tight  at  the  neck  and  rump, 
and  then  roast  it.  Put  it  first  at  a 
distance  from  the  fire,  and  by  de- 
grees draw  it  nearer,  and  baste  it 
well.  A  slip  of  paper  should  be 
skewered  on  the  breast-bone  ;  when 
the  breast  is  rising,  take  off  the  pa- 
per, and  be  careful  to  serve  it  before 
the  breast  falls,  or  it  will  be  spoiled 
by  coming  flat  to  the  table.  Send 
up  a  good  gravy  in  the  dish,  with 
apple  and  gravy  sauce.  For  a  green 
goose,  gooseberry  sauce. 

ROAST  GRISKIN.  Put  a  piece 
of  pork  griskin  into  a  stewpan,  with 
very  httle  more  water  than  will  just 
cover  it.  Let  it  boil  gradually,  and 
when  it  has  fairly  boiled  up,  take  it 
out.  Rub  it  over  with  a  piece  of 
butter,  strew  it  with  a  little  chopped 
sage  and  a  few  bread  crumbs,  and 
roast  it  in  a  Dutch  oven.  It  will 
require  doing  but  a  little  while. 

ROAST  HARE.  After  it  is  skin- 
ned, let  it  be  extremely  well  wash- 
ed, and  then  soaked  an  hour  or  two 
in  water.  If  an  old  hare,  lard  it, 
which  will  make  it  tender,  as  also 
will  letting  it  lie  in  vinegar.     But  if 


put  into  vinegar,  it  should  be  very 
carefully  washed  in  water  after- 
wards. Make  a  stuffing  of  the  liver, 
with  an  anchovy,  some  fat  bacon, 
a  little  suet,  all  finely  minced  ;  add- 
ing pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  a  little 
onion,  some  sweet  herbs,  crumbs  of^!^ 
bread,  and  an  egg  to  bind  it  all. 
Then  put  the  stuffing,  a  pretty  large 
one,  into  the  belly  of  the  hare,  and 
sew  it  up.  Baste  it  well  with  milk 
till  half  done,  and  afterwards  with 
butter.  If  the  blood  has  settled  in 
the  neck,  soaking  the  part  in  warm 
water,  and  putting  it  to  the  fire, 
will  remove  it,  especially  if  the  skin 
be  nicked  a  little  with  a  small  knife 
to  let  it  out.  The  hare  should  be  . 
kept  at  a  distance  from  the  fire  at 
first.  Serve  it  up  with  a  fine  froth, 
some  melted  butter,  currant-jelly 
sauce,  and  a  rich  gravy  in  the  dish. 
The  ears  being  reckoned  a  dainty, 
should  be  nicely  cleaned  and  singed. 
For  the  manner  of  trussing  a  hare  or 
rabbit,  see  Plate. 

ROAST  HEART.  Take  some 
suet,  parsley,  and  sweet  marjoram, 
chopped  fine.  Add  some  bread 
crumbs,  grated  lemon  peel,  pepper, 
salt,  mustard,  and  an  egg.  Mix 
these  into  a  paste,  and  stuff  the 
heart  with  it.  Whether  baked  or 
roasted,  serve  it  up  with  gravy  and 
melted  butter.  Bakmg  is  best,  if  it 
be  done  carefully,  as  it  will  be  more 
regularly  done  than  it  can  be  by 
roasting.  Calf's  or  bullock's  heart 
are  both  dressed  in  the  same  way. 

ROAST  LAMB.  Lay  the  joint 
down  to  a  good  clear  fire,  that  will 
want  little  stirring ;  then  baste  it 
with  butter,  and  dust  on  a  little  flour; 
after  that,  baste  it  with  what  falls 
from  it ;  and  a  little  before  you  take 
it  up  baste  it  again  with  butter,  and 
sprinkle  on  a  little  salt. 

ROAST  LARKS.  Put  a  dozen 
larks  on  a  skewer,  and  tie  both  ends 
of  the  skewer  to  the  spit.  Dredge 
and  baste  them,  and  let  them  roast 
ten  minutes.  Take  the  crumb  of  a 
penny  loaf,  grate  it,  and  put  it  ipto, 
317 


RO  A 


RO  A 


a  fryingpan,  with  a  little  bit  of  but- 
ter. Shake  it  over  a  gentle  fire  till 
it  becomes  brown ;  lay  it  between 
the  birds  on  a  dish,  and  pour  melt- 
ed butter  over  it. 

ROAST  LEG  OF  PORK.  Choose 
^  a  small  leg  of  fine  young  pork,  cut 
a  slit  in  the  knuckle  with  a  sharp 
knife,  fill  the  space  with  chopped 
sage  and  onion,  mixe<^  together 
with  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  When 
half  roasted,  score  the  skin  in  slices, 
but  do  not  cut  deeper  than  the  outer 
rind.  Eat  it  with  potatoes  and  ap- 
ple sauce. 

ROAST  LOBSTER.  When  the 
lobster  is  half  boiled,  take  it  out  of 
the  water;  and  while  hot,  rub  it 
with  butter,  and  lay  it  before  the 
fire.  Continue  basting  it  with  but- 
ter till  it  has  a  fine  froth. 

ROAST  MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 
These  require  to  be  well  roasted, 
before  a  quick  clear  fire.  A  small 
fore  quarter  of  lamb  will  take  an 
hour  and  a  half.  Baste  the  joint  as 
soon  as  it  is  laid  down,  and  sprinkle 
on  a  little  salt.  When  nearly  done, 
dredge  it  with  flour.  In  dressing  a 
loin  or  saddle  of  mutton,  the  skin 
must  be  loosened,  and  then  skewered 
on ;  but  it  should  be  removed  be- 
fore the  meat  is  done,  and  the  joint 
basted  and  made  to  froth  up.  When 
a  fore  quarter  is  sent  to  table,  the 
shoulder  may  be  taken  off,  the  ribs 
a  little  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  a  lemon  squeezed  over 
them.  Serve  up  the  joint  with  ve- 
getables and  mint  sauce.  For  a 
breast  of  mutton,  make  a  savoury 
forcemeat,  if  the  bones  are  taken 
out,  and  wash  it  over  with  eg^. 
Spread  the  forcemeat  upon  it,  roll 
it  up,  bind  it  with  packthread,  and 
serve  it  up  with  gravy  sauce.  Or 
roast  it  with  the  bones  in,  without 
the  forcemeat. 

ROAST  ONIONS.  They  should 
be  roasted  with  all  the  skins  on. 
They  eat  well  alone,  with  only  salt 
and  cold  butter ;  or  with  beet  root, 
or  roast  potatoes. 
310 


ROAST    PHEASANTS.      Dust 

them  with  flour,  baste  them  often 
with  butter,  and  keep  them  at  a  good 
distance  from  the  fire.  Make  the 
gravy  of  a  scrag  of  mutton,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  large 
spoonful  of  ketchup,  and  the  same 
of  browning.  Strain  it,  and  put  a 
little  of  it  into  the  dish.  Serve  them 
up  with  bread  sauce  in  a  basin,  and 
fix  one  of  the  principal  feathers  of 
the  pheasant  in  its  tail.  A  good 
fire  will  roast  them  in  half  an  hour. 
Guinea  and  pea  fowls  eat  much  like 
pheasants,  and  are  to  be  dressed  in 
the  same  way. 

ROAST  PARTRIDGES.  Par- 
tridges will  take  full  twenty  minutes. 
Before  they  are  quite  done,  dredge 
them  with  flour,  and  baste  them 
with  fresh  butter ;  let  them  go  to 
table  with  a  fine  froth,  and  gravy 
sauce  in  the  dish,  and  bread  sauce 
in  a  tureen.  The  bread  sauce  should 
be  made  as  follows.  Take  a  good 
piece  of  stale  bread,  and  put  it  into 
a  pint  of  water,  with  some  whole 
pepper,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  bit 
of  onion  :  let  it  boil  till  the  bread 
is  soft ;  then  take  out  the  spice  and 
onion  ;  pour  out  the  water,  and 
beat  the  bread  with  a  spoon  till  it 
is  like  pap  ;  put  in  a  good  piece  of 
butter,  and  a  little  salt ;  set  it  over 
the  fire  for  two  or  three  minutes. 

ROAST  PIG.  A  sucking  pig  for 
roasting,  should  be  put  into  cold 
water  for  a  few  minutes,  as  soon  as 
it  is  killed.  Then  rub  it  over  with  a 
little  rosin  finely  powdered,  and  put 
it  into  a  pail  of  scalding  water  half 
a  minute.  Take  it  out,  lay  it  on  a 
table,  and  pull  oft'  the  hair  as  quick- 
ly as  possible  :  if  any  part  does  not 
come  ofi^,  put  it  in  again.  When 
quite  clean  from  hair,  wash  it  well 
ill  warm  water,  and  then  in  two  or 
three  cold  waters,  that  no  flavour 
of  the  rosin  may  remain.  Take  oflf 
all  the  feet  at  the  first  joint,  make 
a  slit  down  the  belly,  aii<l  take  out 
the  entrails :  put  the  liver,  heart, 
and  lights  to  the  feet.     Wash  the 


R  OA 


ROA 


^ig  well  in  cold  water,  dry  it  tho 
roughly,  and  fold  it  in  a  wet  cloth 
to  keep  it  from  the  air.  When  thus 
scalded  and  prepared  for  roasting, 
put  into  the  belly  a  mixture  of  chop- 
ped sage,  bread  crumbs,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  sow  it  up.  Lay  it  down 
to  a  briak  fire  till  thoroughly  dry  ; 
then  have  ready  some  butter  in  a 
dry  cloth,  and  rub  the  pig  with  it 
in  every  part.  Dredge  over  it  as 
much  flour  as  will  lie  on,  and  do 
not  touch  it  again  till  it  is  ready  for 
the  table.  Then  scrape  off  the  flour 
very  carefully  with  a  blunt  knife, 
rub  it  well  with  the  buttered  cloth, 
and  take  off  the  head  while  it  is  at 
the  fire.  Take  out  the  brains,  and 
mix  them  with  the  gravy  that  comes 
from  the  pig.  The  legs  should  be 
skewered  back  before  roasting,  or 
the  under  part  will  not  be  crisp. 
Take  it  up  when  done,  and  without 
drawing  the  spit,  cut  it  down  the 
back  and  belly,  lay  it  into  the  dish, 
mince  the  sage  and  bread  very  fine, 
and  mix  them  with  a  large  quantity 
of  good  melted  butter  tiiat  has  very 
little  flour.  Pour  the  sauce  into  the 
dish  after  the  pig  has  been  split 
down  the  back,  and  garnish  with  the 
ears  and  the  two  jaws  :  take  oflf  the 
upper  part  of  the  head  down  to  the 
snout.  In  Devonshire  it  is  served 
up  whole,  if  very  small ;  the  head 
only  being  cut  off  to  garnish  the 
dish. — Another  way.  Spit  your 
pig,  and  lay  it  down  to  a  clear  Are, 
kept  good  at  both  ends  :  put  into 
the  belly  a  few  sage  leaves,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  a  little  crust  of 
bread,  and  a  bit  of  butttr,  then  sew 
up  the  belly  ;  flour  him  all  over  very 
well,  and  do  so  till  the  eyes  begin  to 
start.  When  you  find  the  skin  is 
tight  and  crisp,  and  the  eyes  are 
dropped,  put  two  plates  into  the 
dripping  pan,  to  save  what  gravy 
comes  from  him:  put  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter  into  a  clean  coarse 
cloth,  and  rub  all  over  him,  till  the 
flour  is  clean  taken  off ;  then  take 
it  up  into  your  dish,  take  the  sage. 


&c.  out  of  the  belly,  and  chop  it 
small ;  cut  oflf  the  head,  open  it> 
and  take  out  the  brains,  which  chop, 
and  put  the  sage  and  brains  into 
half  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  with  a 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  ;  then 
cut  your  pig  down  the  back,  and 
lay  him  flat  in  the  dish  :  cut  oflf  tb* 
two  ears,  and  lay  (;ne  upon  each 
shoulder ;  take  off  the  under  jaw, 
cut  it  in  two,  and  lay  one  on  each 
side ;  put  the  head  between  the 
shoulders,  pour  the  gravy  out  of  the 
plates  into  your  sauce,  and  then  into 
the  dish.  Send  it  to  table  garnished 
with  a  lemon. 

ROAST  PIGEONS.  Stuff  them 
with  parsley,  either  cut  or  whole, 
and  put  in  a  seasoning  of  pepper 
and  salt.  Serve  with  parsley  and 
butter.  Peas  or  asparagus  should 
be  dressed  to  eat  with  them. 

ROAST  PIKE.  Clean  the  fish 
we'l,  and  sew  up  in  it  the  following 
stnflliug.  Grated  bread  crumbs, 
sweet  herbs  and  parsley  chopped, 
capers  and  anchovies,  pepper,  salt, 
a  little  fresh  butter,  and  an  egg. 
Turn  it  round  with  the  tail  in  its 
mouth,  and  roast  it  gently  till  it  isr 
done  of  a  fine  brown.  It  may  be 
baked,  if  preferred.  Serve  it  up 
with  a  good  gravy  sauce. 

ROAST  PLOVERS.  Green  plo- 
vers should  be  roasted  like  wood- 
cocks, without  drawing,  and  served 
on  a  toast.  Grey  plovers  may  either 
be  roasted,  or  stewed  with  gravy, 
herbs,  and  spice. 

ROAST  PORK.  Pork  requires 
more  doing  than  any  other  meat ; 
and  it  is  best  to  sprinkle  it  with  a 
little  salt  the  night  before  you  use 
it,  and  hang  it  up ;  by  that  means 
it  will  take  off  the  faint,  sickly  taste. 
When  you  roast  a  chine  of  pork, 
lay  it  down  to  a  good  fire,  and  at  a 
proper  distance,  that  it  may  be  well 
soaked,  otherwise  it  eats  greasy  and 
disagreeable.  A  spare-rib  is  to  be 
roasted  with  a  fire  that  is  not  too 
strong,  but  clear  ;  when  you  lay  it 
down,  dust  on  some  flour  and  baste 
319 


RO  A 


RO  A 


it  with  butter  :  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
before  you  take  it  up,  shred  some 
sage  small ;  baste  v  our  pork  ;  strew 
on  the  sage ;  dust  on  a  little  flour, 
and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  just  before 
you  take  it  up.  A  loin  must  be  cut 
on  the  skin  in  small  streaks,  and 
then  basted  ;  but  put  no  flour  on, 
which  would  make  the  skin  blister  ; 
and  see  that  it  is  jointed  before  you 
lay  it  down  to  the  fire.  A  leg  of 
pork  is  often  roasted  with  sage  and 
onion  shred  fine,  with  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  and  stufl'ed  at  the  knuckle, 
with  gravy  in  the  dish  ;  but  a  leg  of 
pork  done  in  this  manner,  parboil 
it  first,  and  take  ofi"  the  skin  ;  lay 
it  down  to  a  good  clear  fire  ;  baste 
it  with  butter,  then  shred  some  sage 
fine,  and  mix  it  with  pepper,  salt, 
nutmeg,  and  bread  crumbs  ;  strew 
this  over  it  the  time  it  is  roasting ; 
baste  it  again  with  butter,  just  be- 
fore you  take  it  up,  that  it  may  be 
of  a  fine  brown,  and  have  a  good 
froth  ;  send  up  some  good  gravy  in 
the  dish ;  a  griskin  roasted  in  this 
manner  cats  finely. 

ROAST  PORKER'S  HEAD. 
Clean  it  well,  put  bread  and  sage 
into  it  as  for  a  young  pig,  sew  it  up 
tight,  and  put  it  on  a  hanging  jack. 
Roast  it  in  the  same  manner  as  a 
pig,  and  serve  it  up  the  same. 

ROAST  POTATOES.  Half  boil 
them  first,  then  take  off  the  thin 
peel,  and  roast  them  of  a  beautiful 
brown. 

ROAST  PULLET.  To  roast  a 
small  hen  turkey  or  a  pullet  with 
batter,  the  bird  must  first  be  boned, 
and  filled  with  forcemeat  or  stuffing. 
Then  paper  it  round,  and  lay  it 
down  to  roast.  When  nearly  half 
done,  drop  off  the  paper,  and  baste 
the  bird  with  a  very  smooth  light 
batter.  When  the  first  basting  is 
dry,  baste  it  again,  and  repeat  this 
till  the  bird  is  nicely  crusted  over, 
aad  sufficiently  done.  It  will  re- 
quire ten  minutes  or  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  longer  roasting  than  a  bird  of 
the  same  size  in  the  common  way, 
32(1 


on  account  of  its  being  stuffed  with 
forcemeat.  Serve  it  up  with  white 
gravy,  or  mushroom  sauce. 

ROAST  QUAILS.  Quails  may 
be  dressed  and  served  up  like  wood- 
cocks ;  or  dressed  with  the  insides 
stuffed  with  sweet  herbs  and  beef 
suet  chopped  fine,  and  mixed  with  a 
little  spice.  They  must  roast  rather 
a  shorter  time  than  woodcocks. 

ROAST  RUMP  OF  BEEF.  Let 
it  lie  in  salt  for  two  days,  then  wash 
it,  and  soak  it  an  hour  in  a  quart  of 
claret,  and  a  pint  of  elder  vinegar. 
Baste  it  well  with  the  liquor  while 
roasting.  Make  a  gravy  of  two  beef 
palates  cut  thin  and  boiled,  and 
thickened  with  burnt  butter.  Add 
to  it  mushrooms  and  oysters,  and 
serve  it  up  hot. 

ROAST  SIRLOIN.  When  a  sir- 
loin of  beef  is  about  three  parts 
roasted,  take  out  the  meat  from  the 
under  side,  and  mince  it  nicely. 
Season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
some  shalot  chopped  very  small. 
By  the  time  the  beef  is  roasted,  heat 
this  with  gravy  just  sufficient  to 
moisten  it.  Dish  up  the  beef  with 
the  upper  side  downwards,  put  the 
mince  in  the  inside,  and  strew  it 
with  bread  crumbs  ready  prepared. 
Brown  them  of  a  fine  colour  on  a 
hot  salamander  over  the  fire,  and 
then  serve  up  the  beef  with  scraped 
horseradish  laid  round  it. 

ROAST  SNIPES.  Snipes  and 
land  rails  are  dressed  exactly  in  the 
same  manner  as  woodcocks,  but 
only  require  a  shorter  time  in  roast- 
ing. 

ROAST  STURGEON.  Put  the 
fish  on  a  lark  spit,  then  tie  it  on  a 
large  spit,  and  baste  it  constantly 
with  butter.  Serve  it  with  a  good 
gravy,  an  anchovy,  a  squeeze  of 
Seville  orange  or  lemon,  and  a  glass 
of  sherry. — Another  way  is,  to  put 
into  a  stewpan  a  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  with  four  cloves,  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  two  onions, 
pepper  and  salt,  half  a  pint  of  wa- 
ter,  and  a  glass  of  vinegar.     Stir  it 


RO  A 


41  O  A 


6ver  the  fire  till  hot,  then  let  it  be- 
come lukewarm,  and  steep  the  fish 
in  it  an  hour  or  two.  Butter  a  pa- 
per well,  tie  it  round,  and  roast  it 
without  letting  the  spit  run  through. 
Serve  it  with  sorrel  and  anchovy 
sauce. 

ROAST  SWEETBREADS.  Par- 
boil two  large  ones,  and  then  roast 
them  in  a  Dutch  oven.  Use  gravy 
sauce,  or  plain  butter,  with  mush- 
room ketchup. 

ROAST  TONGUE.  After  well 
cleaning  a  neat's  tongue,  salt  it  for 
three  days  with  common  salt  and 
saltpetre.  This  makes  an  excellent 
dish,  with  the  addition  of  a  young 
udder,  having  some  fat  to  it,  and 
boiled  till  tolerably  tender.  Then 
tie  the  thick  part  of  one  to  the  thin 
part  of  the  other,  and  roast  the 
tongue  and  udder  together.  A  few 
cloves  should  be  stuck  in  the  udder. 
Serve  them  with  good  gravy,  and 
currant-jelly  sauce.  Some  people 
like  neats'  tongues  cured  with  the 
root,  in  which  case  they  look  much 
larger  ;  but  otherwise  the  root  must 
be  cut  off  close  to  the  gullet,  next 
to  the  tongue,  but  without  taking 
away  the  fat  under  the  tongue.  The 
root  must  be  soaked  in  salt  and  wa- 
ter, and  extremely  well  cleaned,  be- 
fore it  is  dressed  ;  and  the  tongue 
should  be  laid  in  salt  a  day  and  a 
night  before  it  is  pickled. 

ROAST  TURKEY.  The  sinews 
of  the  leg  should  be  drawn,  which- 
ever way  it  is  dressed.  The  head 
should  be  twisted  under  the  wing; 
and  in  drawing  it,  take  care  not  to 
tear  the  liver,  nor  let  the  gall  touch 
it.  Put  a  stuffing  of  sausage  meat ; 
or  if  sausages  are  to  be  served  in  the 
dish,  a  bread  stuffing.  As  this 
makes  a  large  addition  to  the  size 
of  the  fowl,  observe  that  the  heat  of 
the  fire  is  constantly  to  that  part, 
for  the  breast  is  often  not  done 
enough.  A  little  strip  of  paper 
should  be  put  on  the  bone,  to  pre- 
vent its  being  scorched  while  the 
other  parts  are  roasting.     Baste  it 


well,  and  froth  it  up.  Serv^with 
gravy  in  the  dish,  and  plenty  ofbread 
sauce  in  a  sauce  tureen.  Add  a  few 
crumbs  and  a  beaten  egg  to  the 
stuffing  of  sausage  meat.  Another 
way.  Bone  your  turkey  very  nicely, 
leaving  on  the  pinions,  rump,  and 
legs  ;  then  take  the  flesh  of  a  nice 
fowl,  the  same  weight  of  bread 
grated,  and  half  a  pound  of  beef 
suet,  nicely  picked  ;  beat  these  in  a 
marble  mortar,  season  with  mace, 
one  clove,  pepper,  nutmeg,  salt  beat 
fine,  a  little  lemon  peel  shred  very 
small,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ; 
mix  all  up  together  very  well  ;  then 
fill  all  the  parts  that  the  bones  came 
out  of,  and  raise  the  breast  to  the 
form  it  was  before  the  bone  was 
taken  out ;  sew  up  the  skin  of  the 
back,  and  skewer  down  the  legs 
close  as  you  do  a  chicken  for  roast- 
ing; spit  it  and  let  it  be  nicely  roast- 
ed :  send  good  gravy  in  the  dish. 

ROAST  VEAL.  Veal  must  be 
well  done  before  a  good  fire.  Cover 
the  fat  of  the  loin  and  fillet  with 
paper.  Stuff  the  fillet  and  shoulder 
in  the  following  manner.  Take  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet,  parsley, 
and  sweet  herbs,  and  chop  them 
fine.  Add  grated  bread,  lemon 
peel,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  an 
egg.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  put 
the  stuffing  safely  into  the  veal. 
Roast  the  breast  with  the  caul  on  : 
when  nearly  done,  take  it  off,  and 
baste  and  dredge  the  meat.  L*y  it 
in  the  dish,  pour  a  little  melted  but- 
ter over  it,  and  serve  it  up  with  salad, 
boiled  vegetables,  or  stewed  celery. 

ROAST  VENISON.  After  a 
haunch  of  venison  is  spitted,  take  a 
piece  of  butter  and  rub  all  over  the 
fat,  dust  on  a  little  flour,  and  sprin- 
kle a  little  salt :  then  take  a  sheet 
of  writing  paper,  butter  it  well,  and 
lay  over  the  fat  part ;  put  two  sheets 
over  that,  and  tie  the  paper  on  with 
small  twine  :  keep  it  well  basting, 
and  let  there  be  a  good  soaking  fire. 
If  a  large  haunch,  it  will  take  full 
three  hours  to  do  it.     Five  minutes 

T  t  321 


ROA 


ROL 


befcyjje  you  send  it  to  table  take  off 
the  paper,  dust  it  over  with  a  little 
flour,  and  baste  it  with  butter  ;  let 
it  go  up  with  a  good  froth  ;  put  no 
gravy  in  the  dish,  but  send  it  in  one 
boat;  and  currant  jelly  melted,  in 
another ;  or  if  you  have  no  currant 
jelly,  boil  half  a  pint  of  red  wine 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lump 
sugar,  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  a 
piece  of  lemon  peel  in  it,  to  a  syrup. 
The  neck  and  shoulder  are  dressed 
the  same  way ;  and  as  to  the  time, 
it  depends  entirely  on  the  weight, 
and  the  goodness  of  your  fire  :  if 
you  allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to 
each  pound,  and  the  fire  be  tolera- 
bly kept  up,  you  cannot  well  err. 
A  breast  of  venison  is  excellent 
dressed  in  the  following  way  :  flour 
it,  and  fry  it  brown  on  both  sides 
in  fresh  butter :  keep  it  hot  in  a 
dish,  dust  flour  into  the  butter  it 
was  fried  in,  till  it  is  thick  and 
brown.  Keep  it  stirring  that  it  may 
not  burn  ;  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  red 
wine,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
powdered  sugar:  stir  it  and  let  it 
boil  to  a  proper  thickness.  Squeeze 
in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  take  off  the 
scum  very  clean,  and  pour  it  over 
your  venison,  then  send  it  to  ta- 
ble. 

ROAST  WHEAT-EARS.  These 
birds  should  be  spitted  sideways, 
with  a  vine  leaf  between  each.  Baste 
them  with  butter,  and  cover  them 
with  bread  crumbs  w  hile  roasting. 
Ten  or  twelve  minutes  will  do  them. 
*  Serve  them  up  with  fried  bread 
crumbs  in  the  dish,  and  gravy  in  a 
tureen. 

ROAST  WILD  DUCK.  A  wild 
duck  or  a  widgeon  will  require 
twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes  roast- 
ing, according  to  the  size.  A  teal, 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  ;  and 
other  birds  of  this  kind,  in  propor- 
tion to  their  size,  a  longer  or  a 
shorter  time.  Serve  them  up  with 
gravy,  and  lemons  cut  in  quarters, 
to  be  used  at  pleasure. 

ROAST  WOODCOCKS.  Whe- 
322 


ther  for  woodcocks  or  snipes,  put  a 
toast  of  fine  bread  under  the  birds 
while  at  the  fire  ;  and  as  they  are 
not  to  be  drawn  before  they  are 
spitted,  let  the  tail  drop  on  the  toast 
while  roasting,  and  baste  them  with 
butter.  When  done,  lay  the  birds 
on  the  toast  in  a  dish,  and  send  it 
warm  to  the  table.  A  woodcock 
takes  twenty  minutes  roasting,  and 
a  snipe  fifteen. 

ROBERT  SAUCE.  Put  an  ounce 
of  butter  into  a  pint  stewpan,  and 
when  melted,  add  to  it  half  an  ounce 
of  onion  minced  very  fine.  Turn  it 
with  a  wooden  spoon  till  it  takes  a 
light  brown  colour,  and  then  stir 
into  it  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  a 
table-spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup, 
the  like  quantity  of  port  wine,  half 
a  pint  of  weak  broth,  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper  and  salt  mixed 
together.  Give  them  a  boil,  then 
add  a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard,  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  one  or 
two  tea-spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  basil, 
taragon,  or  burnet  vinegar.  This 
sauce  is  in  high  repute,  and  is  adapt- 
ed for  roast  pork   or  roast  goose. 

ROLLS.  Warm  an  ounce  of  but- 
ter in  half  a  pint  of  milk,  put  to  it 
a  spoonful  or  more  of  small  beer 
yeast,  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  in  two  J 
pounds  of  flour,  let  it  rise  an  hour,  j 
and  knead  it  well.  Make  the  paste 
into  seven  rolls,  and  bake  them  in  a 
quick  oven.  If  a  little  saflTron, 
boiled  in  half  a  tea-cupful  of  milk, 
be  added,  it  will  be  a  great  improve- 
ment. 

ROLLED  BEEF.  Soak  the  in- 
side of  a  large  sirloin  in  a  glass  of 
port  wine  and  a  glass  of  vinegar 
mixed,  for  eight  and  forty  hours  : 
have  ready  a  very  fine  stuffing,  and 
bind  it  up  tight.  Roast  it  on  a 
hanging  spit,  baste  it  with  a  glass 
of  port  wine,  the  same  quantity  of  • 
vinegar,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  I 
pounded  allspice.  Larding  it  im- 
proves tiie  flavour  and  appearance  : 
serve  it  with  a  rich  gravy  in  the  dish, 
with  currant  jelly  and  melted  butter 


RO  L 


ROT 


u\  tureens.  This  article  will  be 
found  very  much  to  resemble  a  hare. 

ROLLED  BREAST  OF  VEAL. 
Bone  it,  take  oft' the  thick  skin  and 
gristle,  and  beat  the  meat  with  a 
rolling-pin.  Season  it  with  herbs 
chopped  very  fine,  mixed  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  mace.  Roll  the  meat 
in  some  thick  slices  of  fine  ham,  or 
in  two  or  three  calves'  tongues  of  a 
fine  red,  first  boiled  an  hour  or  two 
and  peeled.  Bind  the  meat  up  tight 
in  a  cloth,  and  tie  it  round  with  tape. 
Simmer  it  over  the  fire  for  some 
hours,  in  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
till  it  is  quite  tender.  Lay  it  on  the 
dresser  with  a  board  and  weight 
upon  it  till  quite  cold.  Then  take 
off  the  tape,  and  pour  over  it  the  li- 
quor, which  must  be  boiled  up  twice 
a  week,  or  it  will  not  keep.  Pigs' 
or  calves'  feet  boiled  and  taken  from 
the  bones,  may  be  put  in  or  round 
the  veal.  The  different  colours 
placed  in  layers  look  well  when  cut. 
Boiled  yolks  of  eggs,  beet  root, 
grated  ham,  and  chopped  parsley, 
may  be  laid  in  different  parts  to  en- 
crease  the  variety,  and  improve  the 
general  appearance. 

ROLLED  LOIN  OF  MUTTON. 
Hang  the  joint  up  till  tender,  and 
then  bone  it.  Lay  on  a  seasoning 
of  pepper,  allspice,  mace,  nutmeg, 
and  a  few  cloves,  all  in  fine  powder. 
Next  day  prepare  a  stuffing  as  for 
hare,  beat  the  meat  with  a  rolling- 
pin,  cover  it  with  the  stufling,  roll 
it  up  tight  and  tie  it.  Half  bake  it 
in  a  slow  oven,  let  it  grow  cold,  take 
off  the  fat,  and  put  the  gravy  into 
a  stewpan.  Flour  the  meat,  and  put 
it  in  likewise.  Stew  it  till  almost 
ready,  and  add  a  glass  of  port,  an 
anchovy,  some  ketchup,  and  a  little 
lemon  pickle.  Serve  it  in  the  gravy, 
and  with  jelly  sauce.  A  few  mush- 
rooms are  a  great  improvement ; 
but  if  to  eat  like  hare,  these  must 
not  be  added,  nor  the  lemon  pickle. 

ROLLED  NECK  OF  PORK. 
Bone  it  first,  then  put  over  the 
inside  a  forcemeat  of  chopped  sage, 


a  very  few  crumbs  of  bread,  salt, 
pepper,  and  two  or  three  berries  of 
allspice.  Then  roll  the  meat  up 
very  tight,  place  it  at  a  good  dis- 
tance from  the  fire,  and  roast  it 
slowly. 

ROLLED  STEAKS.  Cut  a  large 
steak  from  a  round  of  beef,  spread 
over  it  a  forcemeat,  such  as  is  made 
for  veal,  roll  it  up  like  collared  eel, 
and  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth.  Boil  it  an 
hour  and  a  half,  and  when  done 
enough,  cut  it  into  slices.  Prepare 
a  rich  gravy,  a  little  thickened,  and 
pour  over  the  steaks. 

ROMAN  CEMENT.  To  make 
a  mortar  for  outside  plastering,  or 
brick-work,  or  to  line  reservoirs,  so 
as  no  water  can  penetrate  it,  mix 
together  eighty-four  pounds  of  drift- 
ed sand,  twelve  pounds  of  unslaked 
lime,  and  four  pounds  of  the  poorest 
cheese  grated  through  an  iron  grater. 
When  well  mixed,  add  enough  hot 
water,  not  boiling,  to  make  it  into  a 
proper  consistence  for  plastering, 
such  a  quantity  of  the  above  as  is 
wanted.  It  requires  very  good  and 
quick  working.  One  hod  of  this 
mortar  will  go  a  gre^t  way,  as  it  is 
to  be  laid  on  in  a  thin  smooth  coat, 
without  the  least  space  being  left 
uncovered.  The  wall  or  lath  work 
should  be  first  covered  with  com- 
mon hair  mortar  well  dried.  Suffolk 
cheese  will  be  found  to  make  the  best 
cement. 

ROOK  PIE.  Skin  and  draw 
some  young  rooks,  cut  out  the  back- 
bones, and  season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Lay  them  in  a  dish  with  a  little 
water,  strew  some  bits  of  butter  over 
them,  cover  the  dish  with  a  thick 
crust,  and  bake  it  well. 

ROSE  WATER.  When  the  roses 
are  full  blown,  pick  off  the  leaves 
carefully,  and  allow  a  peck  of  them 
to  a  quart- of  water.  Put  them  in  a 
cold  still  over  a  slow  fire,  and  distil 
it  very  gradually.  Bottle  the  water, 
and  cork  it  up  in  two  or  three  days. 

ROT  IN  SHEEP.  When  sheep 
are  newly  brought  in,  it  will  preserve 
323 


ROY 


RUM 


their  health  to  give  them  a  table- 
spoonful  of  the  juice  of  rue  leaves, 
mixed  with  a  little  salt.  If  they  are 
in  danger  of  the  rot,  this  mixture 
may  be  repeated  every  week  or  often- 
er,  as  the  case  requires. 

ROUND  OF  BEEF.  Cut  out 
the  bone  first,  then  skewer  and  tie 
up  the  beef  to  make  it  quite  round. 
Salt  it  carefully,  and  moisten  it  with 
the  pickle  for  eight  or  ten  days.  It 
may  be  stuffed  with  parsley,  if  ap- 
proved ;  in  which  case  the  holes  to 
admit  the  parsley  must  be  made  with 
a  sharp-pointed  knife,  and  the  pars- 
ley coarsely  cut  and  stuffed  in  tight. 
When  dressed  it  shotfld  be  carefully 
skimmed  as  soon  as  it  boils,  and  af- 
terwards kept  boiling  very  gently. 

ROUT  CAKES.  To  make  rout 
drop-cakes,  mix  two  pounds  of  flour 
with  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound 
ot  sugar,  and  one  pound  o  currants, 
cleaned  and  dried.  Moisten  it  into 
a  stiff  paste  with  two  eggs,  a  large 
spoonful  of  orange-flower  water,  as 
much  rose  water,  sweet  wine,  and 
brandy.  Drop  the  paste  on  a  tin 
plate  floured,  and  a  short  time  will 
bake  them. 

ROYAL  CAKES.  Pat  into  a 
saucepan  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  wa- 
ter, a  piece  of  ^tter  half  the  size 
of  an  e^gf  two  ounces  of  fine  sugar, 
a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  and  a 
little  salt.  When  it  has  boiled  about 
half  a  minute,  stir  in  by  degrees 
four  spoonfuls  of  flour,  keeping  it 
constantly  stirring  all  the  time,  till 
it  becomes  a  smooth  paste,  pretty 
stiff",  and  begins  to  adhere  to  the 
saucepan.  Then  take  it  off  the  fire, 
and  add  three  eggs  well  beaten, 
putting  them  in  by  degrees,  and  stir- 
ring the  paste  all  the  time  to  prevent 
its  being  lumpy.  Add  a  little  orange- 
flower  water,  and  a  few  almonds 
pounded  fine.  Make  it  into  little 
cakes,  and  bake  them  upon  a  sheet 
of  tin  well  buttered.  Half  an  hour 
will  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven. 

ROYAL  PUNCH.  Take  thirty 
Seville  oranges  and  thirty  lemons, 
3:M 


quite  sound,  and  pare  them  very 
thin.  Put  the  parings  into  an  earthen 
pan,  with  as  much  rum  or  brandy 
as  will  cover  them.  Cover  up  the 
pan,  and  let  them  stand  four  days. 
Take  ten  gallons  of  water,  and 
twelve  pounds  of  lump  sugar,  and 
boil  them.  When  nearly  cold,  put 
in  the  whites  of  thirty  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  stir  it  and  boil  it  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Strain  it  through 
a  hair  sieve  into  an  earthen  pan, 
and  let  it  stand  till  next  day.  Then 
put  it  into  a  cask,  strain  the  spirit 
from  the  parings  of  the  oranges  and 
lemons,  and  add  as  much  more  to 
it  as  will  make  it  up  five  gallons. 
Put  it  into  the  cask  with  five  quarts 
of  Seville  orange  juice  and  three 
quarts  of  lemon  juice.  Stir  it  all 
together  with  a  cleft  stick,  and  re- 
peat the  same  once  a  dav  for  three 
successive  days  :  then  stop  it  down 
close,  and  in  six  weeks  it  will  be  fit 
to  drink. 

RUFFS  AND  REEVES.  These 
are  to  be  trussed  and  skewered  the 
same  as  snipes  and  quails.  Place 
bars  of  bacon  over  them,  roast  them 
in  about  ten  minutes,  and  serve  with 
a  good  gravv  in  the  dish. 

RUMP  OF  BEEF.  Take  a  riimj* 
of  beef,  or  about  eight  pounds  <  f 
the  brisket,  and  stew  it  till  it  is 
quite  tender,  in  as  much  water  as 
will  cover  it.  When  sufficiently 
done,  take  out  the  bones,  and  skim 
off  the  fat  very  clean.  To  a  pint  of 
the  liqiior,  add  the  third  part  of  a 
pint  of  port  wine,  a  little  walnut  or 
mushroom  ketchup,  and  some  salt. 
Tie  up  some  whole  white  pepper 
and  mace  in  a  piece  of  muslin,  and 
stew  all  together  for  a  short  time. 
Have  ready  some  carrots  and  tur- 
nips boiled  tender  and  cut  into 
squares,  strew  them  upon  the  beef, 
putting  a  few  into  the  dish.  Truffles 
and  morels  may  be  added,. or  arti- 
choke bottoms. 

RUMP  SOUP.  Two*  or  three 
rumps  of  beef  will  make  a  stronger 
soup,  and  of  a  far  more  nourishing 


RUM 


RUS 


quality,  than  a  larger  quantity  of 
meat  without  them.  It  may  be  made 
like  gravy  soup,  and  thickened  and 
flavoured  in  any  way  that  is  most 
approved. 

RUMP  STEAKS.  The  best 
steaks  are  those  cut  from  the  middle 
of  a  rump  of  beef,  that  has  been 
killed  at  least  four  days  in  moderate 
weather,  and  much  longer  in  cold 
weather,  when  they  can  be  cut  about 
six  inches  long,  four  inches  wide, 
and  half  an  inch  thick.  Do  not  beat 
them,  unless  you  suspect  they  will 
not  be  tender.  Take  care  to  have 
a  very  clear  brisk  tire,  throw  on  it 
a  little  salt,  make  the  gridiron  hot, 
and  set  it  slanting,  ^  prevent  the 
fat  from  dropping  into  the  fire,  and 
making  a  smoke.  It  requires  more 
practice  and  care  than  is  generally 
supposed  to  do  steaks  to  a  nicety  ; 
and  for  want  of  these  little  atten- 
tions, this  very  common  dish,  which 
every  body  is  supposed  capable  of 
dressing,  seldom  comes  to  table  in 
perfection.  It  may  be  underdone 
or  thoroughly  done,  as  happens  to 
be  preferred.  It  is  usual  to  put  a 
table-spoonful  of  ketchup  into  a  dish 
before  the  fire,  with  a  little  minced 
shalot.  In  broiling,  turn  the  steak 
with  a  pair  of  meat  tongs,  and  it 
will  be  done  in  about  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Rub  a  bit  of  butter. over 
it,  and  send  it  up  quite  hot,  garnish- 
ed with  pickles,  and  scraped  horse- 
radish.— If  onion  gravy  is  to  be 
added,  prepare  it  in  the  following 
manner.  Peel  and  slice  two  large 
onions,  put  them  into  a  stewpan 
with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  water, 
cover  the  stewpan  close,  and  set  ft 
on  a  slow  fire  till  the  water  has  boil- 
ed away,  and  the  onions  have  got  a 
little  browned.  Then  add  half  a 
pint  of  good  broth,  or  water  with  a 
large  spoonful  of  ketchup,  and  boil 
the  onions  till  they  are  quite  tender. 
Strain  off  the  liquor,  and  chop  them 
very  fine.  Thicken  the  broth  with 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  season 
it  with  mushroom  ketchup,  pepper 


and  salt.  Put  the  onion  into  it,  let 
it  boil  gently  for  five  minutes,  and 
pour  it  over  the  broiled  steak.  Good 
beef  gravy,  instead  of  broth,  will 
make  the  sauce  superlative. — If  a 
cold  rump  steak  is  to  be  warmed 
up,  lay  it  in  a  stewpan,  with  a  large 
onion  cut  in  quarters,  six  berries  of 
allspice,  and  six  of  black  pepper. 
Cover  the  steak  with  boiling  water, 
let  it  stew  gently  for  an  hour, 
thicken  the  liquor  with  butter  rolled  # 
in  flour,  shake  it  well  over  the  fire 
for  five  minutes,  and  it  is  ready. 
Lay  the  steaks  and  onion  on  a  dish, 
and  pour  the  gravy  over  them 
through  a  sieve. 

RUSKS.  Beat  seven  eggs  well, 
and  mix  them  with  half  a  pint  of 
new  milk,  in  which  four  ounces  of 
butter  have  been  previously  melted. 
Add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  yeast,  and 
three  ounces  of  sugar,  and  put  them 
by  degrees  into  as  much  flour  as 
will  make  a  very  light  paste,  rather  , 
like  a  batter,  and  let  it  rise  before 
the  fire  half  an  hour.  Then  add 
some  more  flour,  to  make  it  a  little 
stiflfer,  but  not  much.  Work  it  well, 
and  divide  it  into  small  loaves,  or 
cakes,  about  five  or  six  inches  wide, 
and  flatten  them.  When  baked  and 
cold,  slice  them  the  thickness  of 
rusks,  and  put  them  into  the  oven 
to  brown  a  little.  The  cakes  when 
first  baked,  eat  deliciously  buttered 
for  tea ;  or  made  with  carraways, 
they  eat  well  cold. 

RUSSIAN  SAUCE.  To  four 
spoonfuls  of  grated  horseradish,  put 
two  tea-spoonfuls  of  patent  mustard, 
a  little  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of  su- 
gar, and  a  suflicient  quantity  of  vine- 
gar to  cover  the  ingredients.  This 
sauce  is  used  for  cold  meat,  but 
makes  a  good  fish  sauce,  with  the 
addition  of  melted  butter. 

RUST.  To  prevent  iron  and  steel 
from  rusting,  mix  with  fat  oil  var- 
nish, at  least  half,  or  at  most  four 
fifths  of  its  quantity  of  highly  recti- 
fied spirits  of  turpentine.  This  var- 
nish must  be  lightly  and  evenly 
325 


SAC 


S  AF 


applied  with  a  sponge  ;  after  which 
the  article  is  left  to  dry  in  some  si- 
tuation not  exposed  to  dust.  Ar- 
ticles thus  varnished  retain  their 
raetallic  lustre,  and  do  not  contract 


any  spots  of  rust.  This  varnish 
may  also  be  applied  to  copper,  of 
which  it  preserves  the  polish  and 
heightens  the  colour. 


s, 


Sack  cream.  Boil  a  pint  of 
raw  cream,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well 
beaten,  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of 
white  wine,  sugar,  and  lemon  peel. 
Stir  it  over  a  gentle  fire  till  it  be  as 
thick  as  rich  cream,  and  afterwards 
till  it  becomes  cold.  Then  serve  it 
in  glasses,  with  long  pieces  of  dry 
toast. 

SACK  DUMPLINS.  Grate  the 
crumb  of  two  penny  rolls,  add  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  suet  cut 
small,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
currants  washed  clean,  a  grated  nut- 
meg, a  little  sugar,  the  yolks  of 
eight  eggs,  and  two  wine  glasses  of 
sack.  Make  the  paste  into  dumplins 
of  a  moderate  size,  tie  them  in  cloths, 
and  boil  them  two  hours.  Melted 
butter  for  sauce,  with  white  wine 
and  sugar. 

SACK  MEAD.  To  every  gallon 
of  water  put  four  pounds  of  honey, 
and  boil  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
taking  care  to  skim  it.  To  every 
gallon  add  an  ounce  of  hops ;  then 
boil  it  half  an  hour,  and  let  it  stand 
till  the  next  day.  Put  it  into  a 
cask,  and  to  thirteen  gallons  of  the 
liquor  add  a  quart  of  brandy.  Stop 
it  lightly  till  the  fermentation  is 
over,  and  then  bung  it  up  close.  A 
large  cask  should  be  suffered  to 
stand  a  year. 

SACKS  OF  CORN.  Seeds,  and 
various  kinds  of  grain,  are  liable  to 
damage  when  kept  in  sacks  or  binns, 
from  the  want  of  being  sufficiently 
aired.  Make  a  small  wooden  tube 
nearly  the  length  of  the  sack,  closed 
and  pointed  at  one  end,  and  per- 
326 


forated  with  holes  about  an  inch 
asunder,  nearly  two  thirds  of  its 
length  from  the  point  end.  Then 
at  the  other  end  fasten  a  leather 
tube,  and  thrust  it  into  the  corn  to 
the  bottom  of  the  sack.  Put  the 
pipe  of  a  pair  of  bellows  into  the 
leather  tube,  and  blow  into  it,  so 
that  the  air  may  be  diffused  among 
the  corn  throughout  the  holes  of 
the  wooden  tube.  If  corn  be  thus 
treated  every  other  day  after  it  is 
first  put  into  sacks,  it  will  prevent 
the  damp  sweats  which  would  other- 
wise injure  it,  and  it  will  afterwards 
keep  sweet  with  very  little  airinsr. 

SADDLE  OF  MUTTON.  When 
it  has  been  well  kept,  raise  the  skin, 
and  then  skewer  it  on  again.  Take 
it  off  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before 
serving,  sprinkle  on  some  salt, 
baste  and  dredge  it  well  with  flour. 
The  rump  should  be  split,  and 
skewered  back  on  each  side.  The 
joint  may  be  cut  large  or  small,  ac- 
cording to  the  company  :  the  latter 
is  the  most  elegant.  Being  broad, 
it  requires  a  high  and  strong  fire. 

SAFFRON  CAKE.  Take  a  quar- 
ter of  a  peck  of  fine  flour,  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  fresh  butter,  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  mace  and  cinnamon 
together,  beat  fine,  and  mix  the 
spice  in  the  flour.  Set  on  a  quart 
of  milk  to  boil,  break  the  butter  in, 
and  stir  it* till  the  milk  boils;  take 
off  all  the  butter,  and  a  little  of 
the  milk  ;  mix  with  the  fjpur  apound 
of  sugar  beat  fine,  a  penny-worth 
of  saffron  made  into  a  tincture ; 
take  a  pint  of  yeast  that  is  not  bitter, 


SAG 


SAL 


and  stir  it  well  into  the  remainder 
of  the  milk  ;  beat  up  six  eggs  very 
well,  and  put  to  the  \east  and  milk, 
strain  it  to  the  flour,  with  some  rose- 
water,  and  (he  tincture  of  saffron  ; 
beat  up  all  together  with  your  hands 
lightly,  and  put  it  into  a  hoop  or 
pan  well  buttered.  It  will  take  an 
hour  and  a  half  in  a  quick  oven. 
You  may  make  the  tincture  of  saffron 
with  the  rose-water. 

SAGE  is  raised  from  seed,  or 
from  slips.  To  have  it  at  hand  for 
winter  it  is  necessary  to  dry  it ;  and 
it  ought  to  be  cut  for  this  purpose 
before  it  comes  out  into  bloom,  as 
indeed  is  the  case  with  all  other 
herbs. 

SAGE  CHEESE.  To  make  this 
kind  of  cheese,  bruise  the  tops  of 
young  red  sage  in  a  mortar,  with 
some  leaves  of  spinach,  and  squeeze 
out  the  juice.  Mix  it  with  the  ren- 
net in  the  milk,  more  or  less,  ac- 
cording as  the  taste  and  colour  may 
be  preferred.  When  the  curd  is 
come,  break  it  gently,  and  put  it  in 
with  the  skimmer,  till  it  is  pressed 
two  inches  above  one  vat.  Press  it 
eight  or  ten  hours,  salt  and  tiirn  it 
every  day. 

SAGO.  To  prevent  the  earthy 
taste,  soak  it  an  hour  in  cold  wa- 
ter ;  pour  off  the  water,  and  wash 
it  well.  Then  ad(?  more,  and  sim- 
mer it  gently  till  the  berries  are 
clear,  with  lemon  peel  and  spice, 
if  approved.  Add  wine  and  sugar, 
and  boil  all  up  together. — If  intend- 
ed for  the  sick,  or  those  whom  dis- 
ease has  left  very  feeble,  boil  a  tea- 
cupful  of  washed  sago  in  a  quart  of 
water,  and  a  taste  of  lemon  peel. 
When  thickened,  grate  in  some  gin- 
ger, and  add  half  a  pint  of  raisin 
wine,  some  brown  sugar,  and  two 
spoonfuls  of  Geneva:  boil  all  up- 
together. 

SAGO  MILK.  Cleanse  the  sago 
as  in  the  former  article,  and  boil  it 
slowly  in  new  milk.  It  swells  so 
much,  that  a  small  quantity  will  be 
sufficient  for  a  auart  ;    and   when 


done,  it  will  be  diminished  to  about 
a  pint.  It  requires  no  sugar  or  fla- 
vouring. 

SAGO  PUDDING.  Boil  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  new  milk,  with  four 
spoonfuls  of  sago  nicely  washed  and 
picked ;  then  add  lemon  peel,  cin- 
namon, and  nutmeg.  Sweeten  the 
pudding,  mix  in  four  eggs,  put  a  paste 
round  the  dish,  and  bake  it  slowly. 

SAIL  CLOTH.  The  old  mode 
of  painting  canvas  was  to  wet  it, 
and  prime  it  with  Spanish  brown. 
Then  to  give  it  a  second  coat  of  a 
chocolate  colour,  made  by  mixing 
Spanish  brown  and  black  paint ; 
and  lastly,  to  finish  it  with  black. 
This  was  found  to  hardea  to  such 
a  degree  as  to  crack,  and  eventually 
to  break,  the  canvas,  and  so  to  ren- 
der it  unserviceable  in  a  short  time. 
The  new  method,  which  is  greatly 
superior,  is  to  grind  ninety-six 
pounds  of  English  ochre  with  boiled 
oil,  and  to  add  sixteen  pounds  of 
black  paint,  which  mixture  forms 
an  indifferent  black.  A  pound  of 
yellow  soap,  dissolved  in  six  pints 
of  water  over  the  fire,  is  mixed  while 
hot,  with  the  paint.  This  compo- 
sition is  then  laid  upon  the  canvas, 
without  being  wetted  as  formerly, 
and  as  stiff  as  can  conveniently  be 
done  with  a  brush,  so  as  to  form  a 
smooth  surface.  Two  days  after- 
wards, a  second  coat  of  ochre  and 
black  is  laid  on,  with  a  very  small 
portion  of  soap  ;  and  allowing  this 
coat  an  intermediate  day  for  drying, 
the  canvas  is  then  finished  with 
black  paint  as  usual.  Three  days 
being  then  allowed  for  it  to  dry  and 
harden,  it  does  not  stick  together 
when  taken  down,  and  folded  in 
cloths  of  sixty  or  seventy  yards 
each. 

SALAD  MIXTURE.  Salad  herbs 
should  be  gathered  in  the  morning, 
as  fresh  as  possible,  or  they  must 
be  put  into  cold  spring  water  for  an 
hour.  Carefully  wash  and  pick 
them,  trim  off  all  the  dry  or  cankered 
leaves,  put  them  into  a  cullender  to 
327 


SAL 


SAL 


drain,  and  swing  them  dry  in  a 
coarse  ckan  napkin.  Then  pound 
together  the  yolks  of  two  hard  eggs, 
an  ounce  of  scraped  horseradish, 
half  an  ounce  of  salt,  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  made  mustard,  four  drams  of 
minced  shalots,  one  dram  of  celery 
seed,  one  dram  of  cress  seed,  and 
half  a  dram  of  cayenne.  Add  by 
degrees  a  wine  glass  of  salad  oil, 
three  glasses  of  burnet,  and  three 
of  tarragon  vinegar.  When  tho- 
roughly incorporated,  set  it  over  a 
very  gentle  fire,  and  stir  it  with  a 
wooden  spoon  till  it  has  simmered 
to  the  consistence  of  cream.  Then 
pass  it  through  a  tammis  or  fine 
sieve,  and  add  it  to  the  salad. 

SALAD  SAUCE.  Mix  two  yolks 
of  eggs  boiled  hard,  as  much  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  as  will  fill  a  des- 
sert-spoon, a  little  patent  mustard, 
a  small  spoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar, 
and  a  large  one  of  ketchup.  Stir 
them  well  together,  then  put  in  four 
spoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  and  one 
spoonful  of  elder  vinegar,  and  beat 
them  up  very  smooth. 

SALADS.  Cold  salads  are  pro- 
per to  be  eaten  at  all  seasons  of  the 
year,  but  are  particularly  to  be  re- 
commended from  the  beginning  of 
February  to  the  end  of  June.  They 
are  in  greater  perfection,  and  con- 
sequently more  powerful,  during 
this  period,  than  at  any  other,  in 
opening  obstructions,  sweetening 
and  purifying  the  blood.  The  ha- 
bit of  eating  salad  herbs  tends  con- 
siderably to  prevent  that  pernicious 
and  almost  general  disease  the  scur- 
vy, and  all  windy  humours  which 
oftend  the  stomach.  Also  from  the 
middle  of  September  till  December, 
and  during  the  winter,  if  the  wea- 
ther be  mild  and  open,  all  green 
herbs  are  wholesome,  and  highly 
beneficial.  It  is  true  that  they  have 
not  so  much  vigour  in  the  winter 
season,  nor  are  they  so  medicinal 
as  in  the  spring  of  the  year ;  yet 
those  which  continue  fresh  and 
green,  will  retain  a  considerable 
328 


portion  of  their  natural  qi^alities  ; 
and  being  eaten  as  salads,  with  pro- 
per seasoning,  they  will  operate 
much  in  the  same  way  as  at  other 
periods  of  the  }ear.  It  is  a  neces- 
sary consequence  of  cold  weather, 
that  the  heat  of  the  body  is  driven 
more  inward  than  in  warm  weather, 
as  the  cold  of  the  atmosphere  repels 
it  from  the  surface.  Hence  arises 
an  appetite  for  strong  and  solid 
food,  and  strong  drinks,  which  for 
want  of  temperance  and  care,  lays 
the  foundation  for  diseases  that 
commonly  make  their  appearance 
in  the  summer  following.  Eating 
freely  of  salads  and  other  vegetables 
in  the  winter,  will  prevent  in  a  great 
n  easure  these  ill  effects ;  and  if 
properly  seasoned  and  prepared, 
they  will  warm  the  stomach,  and 
be  found  exhilarating.  The  effect 
produced  is  in  unison  with  all  the 
operatittns  of  the  human  constitu- 
tion, while  the  use  of  strong  stimu- 
lants excites  to  unnatural  action, 
which  is  soon  succeeded  by  a  cold 
and  chilling  languor.  Green  herbs 
in  winter  are  much  more  beneficial 
than  is  generally  imagined  ;  they  are 
particularly  salutary  to  aged  per- 
sons, and  such  as  are  subject  to 
stoppages,  or  shortness  of  breath. 
In  this  case,  instead  of  an  onion,  a 
clove  of  garlic  may  be  put  into  the 
salad,  which  is  a  preferable  way  of 
eating  it.  This  will  open  and  \V'arm 
the  stomach,  and  give  a  general 
glow  to  the  whole  system. — The 
following  are  the  principal  herbs 
used  as  salads.  Basil,  balm,  borage, 
burnet,  celery,  chervil,  colewort, 
coriander,  corn-salad,  cresses,  en- 
dive, French  fennel,  lettuce,  mint, 
mustard,  nasturtiums,  nettle-tops, 
parsley,  pennyroyal,  radishes,  rape, 
sage,  sorrel,  spinage,  tarragon,  and 
water-cresses.  Onions,  both  young 
and  full  grown,  shalots,  garlic,  and 
chives,  are  all  used  as  seasoning  to 
salads.  Red  beet-root,  boiled  and 
cold,  is  often  sHced  into  them.  Se- 
veral of  these  herbs  are  very  little 


SAL 


SAL 


:n  use  as  salads,  but  there  are  none 
of  them  that  may  not  be  recom- 
mended as  good  for  the  purpose. 
The  usual  salads  are  too  much  li- 
mited to  what  is  specifically  called 
small  salading,  lettuce,  celery,  and 
endive.  These  are  all  excellent  in 
their  kind,  but  to  prefer  them  to 
the  exclusion  of  every  thing  else, 
is  a  mere  prejudice.  With  a  wish 
therefore  to  counteract  it,  and  to 
provide  a  larger  assortment  of  whole- 
some salads,  the  following  particu- 
lars are  given,  with  directions  for 
preparing  several  different  dishes  of 
this  description.  In  general  it  may 
be  proper  to  observe,  that  salads  of 
all  kinds  should  be  very  fresh ;  or 
if  not  immediately  procured  in  this 
state,  they  may  be  refreshed  by  be- 
ing put  into  cold  spring  water. 
They  should  be  very  carefully  wash- 
ed and  picked,  and  drained  quite 
dry  in  a  clean  cloth.  In  dressing 
lettuce,  or  small  herbs,  it  is  best  to 
arrange  them,  properly  picked  and 
cut,  in  the  salad  dish ;  then  to  mix 
the  sauce  in  something  else,  and 
pour  it  to  the  salad  down  the  side 
of  the  dish,  so  as  to  let  it  run  to  the 
bottom,  and  not  to  stir  it  up  till  used 
at  table.  This  preserves  the  crisp- 
ness  of  the  salad,  which  is  one  of 
its  principal  delicacies.  With  ce- 
lery and  endive  the  sauce  should  be 
poured  upon  them,  and  the  whole 
well  stirre^Hogether  to  mix  it  equal- 
ly. Lettuce,  -^hdive,  and  celery, 
may  be  ec^en  with  salt  only;  and 
if  well  chewed,  as  all  salads  ought 
to  be,  they  often  agree  better  than 
when  mixed  with  seasonings.  If 
mustard  in  salad  sauces  occasion 
sickness,  or  otherwise  disagrees, 
cayenne  pepper  will  often  prove  an 
excellent  substitute. — The  following 
salads  are  remarkably  wholesome, 
and  have  a  cooling  and  salutary  ef- 
fect upon  the  bowels.  1.  Take 
spinage,  parsley,  sorrel,  lettuce, 
and  a  few  onions.  Then  add  oil, 
vinegar,  and  salt,  to  give  it  a  high 
taste  and  relish,   but   let   the  salt 


rather  predominate  above  ttie  other 
ingredients.  The  wholesomest  way 
of  eating  salads  is  with  bread  only, 
in  preference  to  bread  and  butter, 
bread  and  cheese,  or  meat  and 
bread  ;  though  any  of  these  may  be 
eaten  with  it,  when  the  salad  is  sea- 
soned only  with  salt  and  vinegar. 
It  is  not  advisable  to  eat  butter, 
cheese,  or  meat  with  salads,  or  any 
thing  in  which  there  is  a  mixture  of 
oil.  All  fat  substances  are  heavy 
of  digestion,  and  to  mix  such  as  dis- 
agree in  their  nature,  is  to  encrease 
this  evil  to  a  degree  that  the  stomach 
can  hardly  overcome.  2.  Prepare 
some  lettuce,  spinage  tops,  penny- 
royal, sorrel,  a  few  onions,  and  some 
parsley.  Then  season  them  with 
oil,  vinegar,  and  salt.  3.  Another 
salad  may  be  made  of  lettuce,  sor- 
rel, spinage,  tops  of  mint,  and  onions, 
seasoned  as  before.  4.  Take  spinage, 
lettuce,  tarragon,  and  parsley,  with 
some  leaves  of  balm.  Or  sorrel, 
tarragon,  spinage,  lettuce,  onions, 
and  parsley.  Or  tops  of  pennyroyal, 
mint,  lettuce,  spinage,  sorrel,  and 
parsley.  Or  lettuce,  spinage,  onions, 
pennyroyal,  balm,  and  sorrel.  Or 
sage,  lettuce,  spinage,  sorrel,  onions, 
and  parsley  ;  seasoned  with  salt, 
oil,  and  vinegar.  5.  Make  a  salad 
of  pennyroyal,  sage,  mint,  balm, 
a  little  lettuce,  and  sorrel ;  seasoned 
with  oil,  vinegar,  and  salt.  This  is 
an  excellent  warming  salad,  though 
the  above  are  all  of  an  exhilarating 
tendency.  6.  Mix  some  lettuce, 
sorrel,  endive,  celery,  spinage,  and 
onions,  seasoned  as  above.  7.  Take 
the  fresh  tender  leaves  of  cole  wort, 
or  cabbage  plants,  with  lettuce,  sor- 
rel, parsley,  tarragon,  nettle  tops, 
mint,  and  pennyroyal ;  and  season 
them  with  salt,  oil,  and  vinegar. 
If  highly  seasoned,  this  is  a  very 
warm  and  relishing  salad.  8.  For 
winter  salad,  take  some  tender 
plants  of  colewort,  sorrel,  lettuce, 
endive,  celery,  parsley,  and  sliced 
onions  ;  and  season  them  as  before. 
9.  Another  winter  salad  may  be 
U  u  329 


SAL 


SAL 


*  made  of  lettuce,  spinage,  endive, 
celery,  and  half  a  clove  of  garlic. 
Season  it  well  with  oil,  vinegar,  and 
salt.  This  salad  is  very  warming 
and  wholesome.  All  these  aromatic 
herbs  are  particularly  proper  for 
phlegmatic  and  weakly  persons,  as 
they  have  the  property  of  warming 
the  stomach,  and  improving  the 
blood.  To  supply  the  want  of  oil 
in  salads,  make  some  thick  melted 
butter,  and  use  it  in  the  same  pro- 
portion as  oil.  Some  sweet  thick 
cream  is  a  still  better  substitute, 
and  will  do  as  well  as  oil,  especially 
as  some  persons  have  an  aversion  to 
oil.  Cream  also  looks  well  in  salads. 
A  good  salad  sauce  may  be  made  of 
two  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard,  mix- 
ed with  a  spoonful  of  Parmesan 
cheese  grated,  a  little  patent  mus- 
tard, a  spoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar, . 
and  a  larger  one  of  ketchup.  When 
stirred  well  together,  add  four  spoon- 
fuls of  salad  oil,  and  one  of  elder 
vinegar,  and  beat  them  up  very 
smooth.  It  is  very  common  in 
France,  amongst  all  classes  of  peo- 
ple, to  dress  cauliflowers  and  French 
beans  to  eat  cold,  as  salads,  with  a 
sauce  of  oil,  vinegar,  salt,  and  pep- 
per. In  some  parts  of  France,  raw 
salads,  composed  entirely  of  herbs 
growing  wild  in  the  fields,  are  in 
frequent  use  ;  and  for  distinction 
sake,  are  called  rural  salads.  The 
English,  who  are  not  so  fond  of  pun- 
gent flavours,  are  in  the  habit  of 
Jt  substituting  sugar  instead  of  pepper 
and  salt,  where  oil  is  not  used,  in 
order  to  soften  the  asperity  of  the 
vinegar. 

SALMAGUNDY.  This  is  a  beau- 
tiful small  dish,  if  in  a  nice  shape, 
and  the  colours  of  the  ingredients 
be  properly  varied.  For  this  pur- 
pose chop  separately  the  white  part 
of  cold  chicken  or  veal,  yolks  of 
eggs  boiled  hard,  the  whites  of  eggs, 
beet  root,  parsley,  half  a  dozen  an- 
chovies, red  pickled  cabbage,  ham 
and  grated  tongue,  or  any  thing  well 
flavoured  and  of  a  good  colour. 
330 


Some  people  like  a  small  proportion 
of  onion,  but  it  may  be  better  omit- 
ted. A  saucer,  large  teacup,  or 
any  other  base,  must  be  put  into  a 
small  dish  ;  then  make  rows  round 
it  wide  at  the  bottom,  and  growing 
smaller  towards  the  top,  choosing 
such  ingredients  for  each  row .  as 
will  most  vary  the  colours.  At  the 
top,  a  little  sprig  of  curled  parsley 
may  be  stuck  in  ;  or  without  any 
thing  on  the  dish,  the  saknagundy 
may  be  laid  in  rows,  or  put  into  the 
half-whites  of  eggs,  which  may  be 
made  to  stand  upright  by  cutting 
oflf  a  little  bit  at  the  round  end.  In 
the  latter  case,  each  half  egg  re- 
ceives but  one  ingredient.  Curled 
butter  and  parsley  may  be  put  as 
garnish  between. 

SALMON.  If  fresh  and  good, 
the  flesh  will  be  of  a  fine  red,  the 
gills  particularly  ;  the  scales  very 
bright,  and  the  whole  fish  stitt. 
When  just  killed  there  is  a  whiteness 
between  the  flakes,  which  gives  great 
firmness ;  by  keeping,  this  melts 
down,  and  the  fish  is  more  rich. 
The  Thames  salmon  bears  the  high- 
est price  ;  that  caught  in  the  Severn 
is  next  in  goodness,  and  by  some  it 
is  preferred.  Those  with  small 
heads,  and  thick  in  the  neck,  are 
best. 

SALMON  AU  COURT-BOU- 
ILLON. Scale  and  clean  a  fresh 
salmon  very  well,  score;  the  sides 
deep,  to  take  the -Masoning;  take 
of  mace  and  cloves,  antttwhite  pep- 
per, a  quarter  of  an)  ounce  each, 
a  small  nutmeg,  and  an  ounce  of 
salt ;  beat  these  very  fine  in  a  mor- 
tar; cut  a  little  lemon  peel  fine, 
and  shred  some  parsley,  mix  all  to- 
gether, and  season  the  rish  inside 
and  out;  then  workup  near  a  pound 
of  butter  in  flour,  and  fill  up  the 
notches  ;  the  rest  put  into  the  belly 
of  the  fish  ;  lay  it  in  a  clean  cloth  or 
napkin,  roll  it  up,  and  bind  it  round 
with  packthread,  lay  it  into  a  fish- 
kettle,  and  put  to  it  as  much  white 
wine  vinegar,  and  water  in  an  equal 


SAL 


SAL 


quantity,  as  will  be  sufficient  to  boil 
it  in.  Set  it  over  a  good  charcoal 
fire,  and  when  you  think  it  is  enough, 
draw  it  off  your  stove,  so  that  it  may 
but  just  simmer.  Fold  a  clean  nap- 
kin the  length  of  your  dish  the  fish 
is  to  go  up  in  ;  take  up  the  fish,  un- 
bind it,  and  lay  it  on  the  napkin. 
Garnish  your  dish  with  picked  raw 
parsley,  and  horseradish.  Send 
plain  butter  in  a  bason,  and  shalots 
chopped  fine,  and  simmered  in  vine- 
gar in  a  boat. 

SALMON  A  LA  BRAISE.  Clean 
a  middling  salmon,  take  the  flesh  of 
a  tench,  or  a  large  eel,  and  chop  it 
very  fine,  with  two  anchovies,  a 
little  lemon  peel  shred,  pepper,  salt, 
nutmeg,  and  a  little  thyme  and  pars- 
ley ;  mix  all  together  with  a  good 
piece  of  butter,  put  into  the  belly 
of  the  fish,  and  sew  it  up ;  put  it 
into  an  oval  stew-pan  that  will  just 
hold  it ;  brown  about  half  a  pound 
of  fresh  butter,  and  put  to  it  a  pint 
of  fish  broth,  and  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  white  wine  ;  pour  this  over  your 
fish  ;  if  it  does  not  cover  it,  add 
some  more  wine  and  broth  ;  put  in 
a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  and  an 
onion,  a  little  mace,  two  or  three 
cloves,  and  some  whole  pepper  tied 
up  in  a  piece  of  muslin  :  cover  it 
close,  and  let  it  stew  gently  over  a 
slow  fire.  Before  it  is  quite  done, 
take  out  your  onion,  herbs,  and 
spice  ;  then  put  in  some  mushrooms, 
truffles,  and  morels,  cut  in  pieces ; 
let  them  stew  all  together,  till  the 
salmon  is  enough  ;  take  it  up  care- 
fully, take  off  all  the  scum,  and 
pour  your  sauce  over.  Garnish  with 
horseradish,  barberries,  and  lemon. 
Either  of  these  is  a  fine  dish  for  a 
first  course. 

SALMON  PIE.  Make  puff  paste, 
and  lay  over  your  dish ;  clean  and 
scale  a  middling  piece  of  salmon  ; 
cut  it  into  three  or  four  pieces,  ac- 
cording to  the  size  of  your  dish, 
and  season  it  pretty  high  with  mace, 
cloves,  pepper,  and  salt ;  put  some 
butter  at  the  bottom,  and  lay  in  the 


salmon  ;  take  the  meat  of  a  lobster 
cut  small,  and  bruise  the  body  with 
an  anchovy  ;  melt  as  much  butter 
as  you  think  proper,  stir  the  lobster 
into  it,  with  a  glass  of  white  wine, 
and  a  little  nutmeg  ;  pour  this  ove» 
the  salmon,  lay  on  the  top  crust, 
and  let  it  be  well  baked. 

SALOOP.  Boil  together  a  little 
water,  wine,  lemon  peel,  and  sugar. 
Mix  in  a  small  quantity  of  saloop 
powder,  previously  rubbed  smooth 
with  a  little  cold  water.  Stir  it  all 
together,  and  boil  it  a  few  minutes. 

SALT.  The  properties  of  com- 
mon salt  are  such  as  to  render  it  an 
article  of  the  greatest  importance  in 
the  preparation  of  food,  and  in  the 
preservation  of  health.  If  salt  be 
withheld  for  any  length  of  time,  dis- 
eases of  the  stomach  become  gene- 
ral, and  worms  are  gendered  in  the 
bowels,  which  are  removed  with 
great  difficulty.  In  Ireland,  salt  is  J| 
a  well-known  common  remedy  for  ^ 
bots  in  the  horse  ;  and  among  the 
poor  people,  a  dose  of  common  salt 
is  esteemed  a  sufficient  cure  for  the 
worms.  It  is  supposed  by  some 
medical  men,  that  salt  furnishes 
soda  to  be  mixed  with  the  bile  : 
without  this  necessary  addition,  the 
bile  would  be  deprived  of  the  qua- 
lities necessary  to  assist  in  the  ope- 
ration of  digestion.  One  of  the 
greatest  grievances  of  which  the  poor 
man  can  complain  is  the  want  of 
salt.  Many  of  the  insurrections  and 
commotions  among  the  Hindoos, 
have  been  occasioned  by  the  cruel 
and  unjust  monopolies  of  certain 
unworthy  servants  of  the  East  India 
Company,  who  to  aggrandize  their 
own  fortunes  have  oftentimes  bought 
up,  on  speculation,  all  the  salt  in 
the  different  ports  and  markets, 
and  thus  have  deprived  the  ingenious 
but  wretched  natives  of  their  only 
remaining  comfort,  salt  being  the 
only  addition  they  are  usually  ena- 
bled to  make  to  their  poor  pittance 
of  rice.  Many  of  the  poor  in  Eng- 
land, previously  to  the  late  reduction 
331 


SAL 


SAL 


especially,  have  loudly  lamented  the 
high  price  of  salt,  which  thousands 
are  in  the  habit  of  using  as  the  only 
seasoning  to  their  meal  of  potatoes. 
Salt  is  also  of  the  greatest  use  in 
tigriculture.  From  one  to  two  bushels 
makes  fine  manure  for  an  acre  of 
land,  varied  according  to  the  qua- 
lity of  the  soil.  This  answers  better 
than  almost  any  other  compost. 
The  Chinese  have  for  ages  been  ac- 
customed to  manure  their  fields  by 
sprinkling  them  with  sea  water. 
The  Persians  sprinkle  the  timber  of 
their  buildings  with  salt,  to  prevent 
them  from  rotting.  It  is  used  in 
Abyssinia  instead  of  money,  where 
it  passes  from  hand  to  hand,  under 
the  shape  of  a  brick,  worth  about 
eighteen  pence.  In  feeding  of  cat- 
tle, it  is  also  found  to  be  highly  be- 
neficial. A  nobleman  who  pur- 
chased two  hundred  Merino  sheep 
^  in  Spain,  attributes  the  health  of 
his  flock  principally  to  the  constant 
use  of  salt.  These  sheep  having 
been  accustomed  to  that  article  in 
their  native  land,  it  was  thought  ne- 
cessary to  supply  them  with  it,  es- 
pecially in  this  damp  climate,  and 
in  the  rich  pastures  of  some  parts 
of  this  country.  A  ton  of  salt  is 
used  annually  for  every  thousand 
sheep  :  a  handful  is  put  in  the  morn- 
ing on  a  flat  stone  or  slate,  ten  of 
which,  set  a  few  yards  apart,  are 
sufficient  for  a  hundred  sheep.  This 
quantity  is  given  twice  a  week.  Out 
of  a  flock  of  nearly  a  thousand,  there 
were  not  ten  old  sheep  that  did  not 
readily  take  it,  and  not  a  single  lamb 
which  did  not  consume  it  greedily. 
Salt  is  likewise  a  preventive  of  dis- 
orders in  stock  fed  with  rank  green 
food,  as  clover  or  turnips,  and  it  is 
deemed  a  specific  for  the  rot. 
Horses  and  horned  cattle  are  also 
very  fond  of  salt :  the  cow  gives 
more  milk,  and  richer  in  quality, 
when  salt  is  mixed  with  her  food. 
The  wild  beasts  of  the  American 
forests  leave  their  haunts  at  certain 
seasons,  and  travel  in  company  to 
33 


various  places  where  salt  is  to  be 
found.  There  they  lick  the  ground 
on  which  the  salt  lies,  or  which  is 
strongly  impregnated  by  it.  Cattle 
fed  on  grass  which  grows  on  the  sea 
shore,  are  always  fatter  and  in  bet- 
ter condition,  than  those  which 
graze  on  in  land-pastures.  Con- 
sidering its  various  uses  in  agricul- 
ture, as  an  article  of  food,  and  as  a 
preservative  from  putrefaction,  salt 
may  be  pronounced  one  of  the  most 
generally  useful  and  necessary  of 
all  the  minerals ;  and  it  is  truly  la- 
mentable, that  in  almost  all  ages 
and  countries,  particularly  in  those 
where  despotism  prevails,  this 
should  be  one  of  those  necessaries 
of  life,  on  which  the  most  heavy 
taxes  are  imposed.  Bay  salt  is  a 
kind  of  brownish  impure  salt,  ob- 
tained in  France,  Italy,  and  other 
countries,  by  evaporating  sea  water 
in  pits.  The  principal  part  of  bay 
salt  sold  in  this  country  is  however 
of  home  manufacture,  being  a  coarse 
grained  chrystalized  salt,  made  dirty 
by  powdered  Turkey  umber,  or 
some  such  colouring  material,  to 
give  it  the  appearance  of  a  foreign 
article.  The  only  utility  which  this 
salt  appears  to  possess,  beyond  that 
of  the  common  fine-grained  salt 
usually  found  in  the  shops,  is  that 
it  dissolves  more  slowly  by  moisture, 
and  therefore  is  better  calculated 
for  salting  of  fish,  and  other  animal 
substances,  which  cannot  be  wholly 
covered  with  brine.  Basket  salt  is 
made  from  the  water  of  the  salt 
springs  in  Cheshire  and  other  places. 
It  differs  from  the  common  brine 
salt  in  the  fineness  of  the  grain,  as 
well  as  on  account  of  its  whiteness 
and  purity.  It  is  principally  used 
at  table. 

SALT  BEEF.  Great  attention  is 
requisite  in  salting  meat ;  and  in  the 
country,  where  large  quantities  are 
often  cured,  this  is  of  particular  im- 
portance. Beef  and  pork  should 
be  well  sprinkled,  and  a  few  hours 
afterwards  hung  to  drain,  before  it 


S  AI 


SAL 


IS  rubbed  with  the  salt.  This  me- 
thod, by  cleansing  the  meat  from 
the  blood,  serves  to  keep  it  from 
tasting  strong.  It  should  be  turned 
every  day  ;  and  if  wanted  soon,  it 
should  be  rubbed  daily.  A  salting 
tub  or  lead  may  be  used,  and  a  co- 
ver to  fit  close.  Those  who  use  a 
good  deal  of  salt  meat  will  find  it 
answer  well  to  bull  up  the  pickle, 
and  skim  it  clean ;  and  when  cold, 
pour  it  over  meat  that  has  been 
sprinkled  and  drained. — To  salt 
beef  red,  which  is  extremely  good 
to  eat  fresh  from  the  pickle,  or  to 
hang  to  d'ry,  choose  a  piece  of  the 
flank,  or  any  part  that  has  but  little 
bone.  Sprinkle  it,  and  let  it  drain 
a  day.  Then  rub  it  with  common 
salt,  bay  salt,  and  a  small  proportion 
of  saltpetre,  all  in  fine  powder.  A 
few  grains  of  cochineal  may  be  add- 
ed. Rub  the  pickle  into  the  meat 
every  day  for  a  week,  and  after- 
wards turning  it  only  will  be  suffi- 
cient. It  will  be  excellent  in  about 
eight  days  ;  and  in  sixteen  days  it 
may  be  drained  from  the  pickle. 
Smoke  it  at  the  mouth  of  the  oven, 
when  heated  with  wood,  or  send  it 
to  the  baker's  ;  a  few  days  will  be 
sufficient  to  smoke  it.  A  little  of 
the  coarsest  sugar  added  to  the  salt, 
will  be  an  improvement.  Red  beef 
boiled  tender,  eats  well  with  greens 
or  carrots.  If  it  is  to  be  grated  as 
Dutch  beef,  then  cut  a  lean  bit,  boil 
it  extremely  tender,  and  put  it  hot 
under  a  press.  When  cold  fold  it 
in  a  sheet  of  paper,  and  it  will  keep 
in  a  dry  place  two  or  three  months, 
;  ready  for  serving  on  bread  and  but- 
I  ter. — If  a  piece  of  beef  is  to  be  pre- 
pared for  eating  immediately,  it 
should  not  weigh  more  than  five  or 

tsix  pounds.  Salt  it  thoroughly  be- 
fore it  is  to  be  put  into  the  pot, 
take  a  coarse  cloth,  flour  it  well, 
put  the  meat  into  it,  and  fold  it  up 
close.  Put  it  into  a  pot  of  boiling 
water,  and  boil  it  as  another  piece 
of  salt  meat  of  the  same  size,  and 


it  will  be  as  salt  as  if  it  had  been  id 
pickle  four  or  five  days. 

SALT  COD.  Soak  and  clean 
the  piece  intended  to  be  dressed, 
and  lay  it  all  night  in  water,  with  a 
glass  of  vinegar.  Boil  it  enough, 
then  break  it  into  flakes  on  the  dish  ; 
pour  over  it  parsnips  boiled,  beaten 
in  a  mortar,  and  boiled  up  with 
cream.  Add  to  it  a  large  piece  of 
butter,  rubbed  in  a  Httle  flour.  Egg 
sauce  may  be  sent  up  instead,  or  the 
parsnip  root  whole.  The  fish  may 
also  be  boiled  without  flaking,  and 
served  with  either  of  the  sauces  as 
above. 

SALT  FISH.  Backlio,  old  ling, 
and  tusk,  are  reckoned  the  best  salt 
fish.  Old  ling  and  backlio,  must 
be  laid  in  water  for  ten  or  twelve 
hours,  then  taken  out,  and  scaled 
very  clean ;  wash  the  fish,  and  let 
it  lay  out  of  water  till  you  want  to 
use  it ;  if  it  is  the  next  day,  it  will 
be  the  better.  When  you  dress  it, 
put  it  into  cold  water,  and  let  it  do 
as  gently  as  possible  ;  let  it  be  boil- 
ed so  tender,  that  you  may  put  a 
fork  into  any  part  of  it  without 
sticking,  then  it  is  enough.  Lay  a 
clean  napkin  over  your  dish,  take  up 
the  fish,  lay  it  upon  the  napkin,  and 
throw  the  corners  over  each  other. 
Send  it  to  table  with  egg  sauce  in  a 
basin,  parsnips  sliced,  and  butter 
and  mustard  in  a  boat. 

SALT  FISH  WITH  CREAM. 
Soak  and  boil  some  good  barrel  cod, 
till  about  three  parts  done.  Divide 
it  into  flakes,  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  some  cream,  a  little  pepper, 
and  a  handful  of  parsley  scalded 
and  chopped.  Stew  it  gently  till 
tender,  thicken  the  sauce  with  two 
or  three  yolks  of  eggs,  and  serve  it 
up. 

SALT  FISH  PIE.  Boil  a  side  of 
salt  fish  as  you  would  for  eating  ; 
cut  a  square  bit  out  of  the  middle, 
about  the  bigness  of  your  hand  ; 
take  the  skin  off  the  other,  and  take 
out  all  the  bones ;  mince  this  very 
333 


SAL 


SAL 


small  with  six  eggs  boiled  hard  ; 
season  it  with  pepper,  nutmeg,  and 
beaten  mace,  then  slice  the  crumb 
of  French  rolls  thin  into  a  pan,  pour 
over  it  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  and 
let  it  stand  to  soak ;  in  the  mean 
time,  make  a  good  puff  paste,  and 
sheet  the  dish  all  over;  have  in 
readiness  the  quantity  of  two  spoon- 
fuls of  parsley  shred  very  fine,  beat 
the  bread  well  together,  then  put  in 
the  fish  and  eggs,  and  chopped 
parsley ;  stir  all  well  together  ; 
melt  about  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  and  stir  it  into  the  ingre- 
dients, with  a  gill  of  Mountain  ;  pour 
this  into  the  dish,  lay  the  square 
piece  of  fish  in  the  middle ;  lay  on 
the  lid,  and  bake  it  an  hour,  or  a 
little  more. — You  may  make  ling, 
or  stock-fish  pie  in  this  manner ; 
but  you  are  to  observe,  that  all  the 
skin  is  to  be  taken  off,  and  not  to 
put  a  piece  whole  into  the  pie,  ac- 
cording to  this  receipt ;  but  mince 
all  the  fish  with  the  yolks  of  hard 
eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites,  and 
adding  a  large  spoonful  of  made 
mustard  when  you  stir  the  ingredi- 
ents together,  before  you  put  them 
into  the  pie. . 

SALT  PORK.  To  a  hundred 
weight  of  pork  or  beef,  take  ten 
pounds  of  common  salt,  and  half 'a 
pound  of  saltpetre.  Let  the  meat 
be  well  cleaned  from  those  particles 
of  blood  which  hang  about  it  when 
cut  into  four  pound  pieces :  this 
is  best  done  by  washing  it  in  salt 
and  water,  or  brine  that  has  been 
used,  provided  it  be  sweet.  Lay, 
the  meat  in  rows,  and  rub  the  upper 
side  moderately  with  salt ;  then 
place  another  layer  of  meat,  and  re-  ' 
peat  the  operation  as  on  the  first 
layer.  In  this  manner  continue  the 
same  proportion  of  salt  and  salt- 
petre, till  the  whole  quantity  is 
heaped  up  in  a  tub,  or  some  other 
vessel,  not  of  lead,  in  order  to  pre- 
serve the  pickle  from  issuing  from 
it.  In  this  state  it  must  remain  for 
334 


three  days,  then  turn  it  into  another 
tub,  sprinkling  it  with  salt  in  the  act 
of  turning  the  meat.  When  all  is 
turned  and  salted,  let  the  pickle 
procured  by  the  first  salting,  be 
slowly  poured  about  the  meat.  In 
this  state  let  it  remain  for  a  week, 
and  it  will  be  excellent  for  home 
use.  If  wanted  for  exportation, 
pack  it  in  this  state  into  casks.  But 
as  the  greatest  care  is  required  for 
its  preservation,  when  sent  abroad, 
a  layer  of  salt  must  first  be  put  into 
the  barrel,  and  then  a  layer  of  meat, 
till  the  cask  is  full,  taking  care  to 
use  the  hand  only  in  packing  in  the 
pieces.  When  the  barrel  is  headed, 
the  pickle  must  be  filtered  through 
a  coarse  cloth  ;  and  when  perfectly 
fine,  fill  up  the  cask  with  the  pickle 
to  the  bung  hole.  Let  it  remain  in 
this  state  till  the  next  day,  in  order 
to  ascertain  whether  the  cask  be 
quite  tight,  and  then  bung  it  up. 
Beef  or  pork  cured  in  this  manner 
will  not  fail  to  keep  any  reasonable 
length  of  time.  The  too  great  rub- 
bing of  meat  will  not  keep  it  the  bet- 
ter, it  frequently  retards  the  opera- 
tion of  the  salt  by  filling  the  outward 
pores  of  the  meat  only  to  the  de- 
struction of  the  middle  of  the  piece, 
which  frequently  perishes. 

SALTING  OF  BUTTER.  After 
the  butter  is  well  worked  up  and 
cleared  from  the  milk,  it  is  ready 
for  salting.  The  tub  in  which  it  is 
to  be  preserved  being  perfectly  clean, 
should  be  rubbed  in  the  whole  in- 
side with  common  salt ;  and  a  little 
melted  butter  should  be  poured  into 
the  cavity- between  the  bottom  and 
the  sides,  before  the  butter  is  put 
in.  Although  common  salt  is  ge- 
nerally employed  on  this  occasion, 
yet  the  following  composition  not 
only  preserves  the  butter  more  ef- 
fectually from  taint,  but  also  makes 
it  look  better,  taste  sweeter,  richer, 
and  more  marrowy,  than  if  it  had 
been  cured  with  common  salt  only. 
Take  of  best  common  salt  two  parts. 


SAL 


SAV 


saltpetre  one  part,  lump  sugar  one 
part,  and  beat  them  up  together  in 
a  mortar,  so  that  they  may  be  com- 
pletely blended.  To  every  pound 
of  butter,  add  one  ounce  of  this 
composition  :  mix  it  well  in  the 
mass,  and  close  it  up  for  use.  But- 
ter prepared  in  this  manner  will 
keep  good  for  three  years,  and  can- 
not be  distinguished  from  that  which 
is  recently  salted  ;  but  it  does  not 
taste  well  till  it  has  stood  a  fort- 
night or  three  weeks.  To  preserve 
butter  for  winter  use,  take  some  that 
is  fresh  and  good  in  the  month  of 
August  or  September,  and  put  it  in- 
to an  unglazed  jar,  in  layers  about 
two  inches  thick,  till  the  jar  is  full, 
within  three  inches  of  the  top. 
Make  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  wa- 
ter, boil  and  skim  it ;  and  when  it 
is  quite  cold,  pour  a  sufficient 
quantity  over  the  butter,  so  that  the 
brine  may  be  an  inch  deep.  Tie 
paper  over  it,  and  set  it  in  a  cool 
place.  When  wanted  for  use,  cut 
it  no  deeper  than  the  first  layer  till 
that  is  all  used.  Then  cut  the  se- 
cond in  the  same  manner,  and  so 
on  to  the  bottom  of  the  tub  or  jar. 
By  this  means  there  will  be  no  more 
than  a  part  of  one  layer  that  is  not 
covered  with  the  brine.  To  make 
it  eat  like  fresh  butter,  dip  each 
piece  into  water  when  it  is  cut  out 
of  the  jar  ;  or  work  it  over  again  in 
'*  fresh  buttermilk  or  milk,  and  make 
it  into  shapes  like  fresh  butter.  It 
will  eat  much  better  with  toast, 
than  most  of  the  fresh  butter  that  is 
made  in  winter.  It  is  a  false  idea, 
that  butter,  to  be  preserved  for  win- 
ter use,  requires  a  greater  quantity 
of  salt :  experience  has  proved  the 
contrary.  Butter  salted  in  the  com- 
mon way,  and  put  in  pots  with  brine 
over  the  top,  retains  its  flavour,  and 
is  better  preserved  than  by  an  ad- 
ditional quantity  of  salt.  One  more 
observation  on  the  preservation  of 
butter  is  necessary.  It  is  univer- 
sally allowed  that  cleanliness  is  in- 
dispensible,  but  it  is  not  generally 


suspected,  that  butter  from  being 
made  in  vessels  or  troughs  lined 
with  lead,  or  in  glazed  earthenware 
pans,  which  glaze  is  principally 
composed  of  lead,  is  too  apt  to  be 
contaminated  by  particles  of  that 
deleterious  metal.  If  the  butter  is 
in  the  least  degree  rancid,  this  can 
hardly  fail  to  take  place,  and  it  can- 
not be  doubted,  that  during  the  de- 
composition of  the  salts,  the  glazing 
is  acted  on.  It  is  better  therefore 
to  use  tinned  vessels  for  mixing  the 
preservative  with  the  butter,  and  to 
pack  it  either  in  wooden  vessels,  or 
in  jars  of  the  Vauxhall  ware,  which 
being  vitrified  throughout,  do  not 
require  an  inside  glazing. 

SAMPHIRE.  This  should  be 
boiled  in  plenty  of  water,  with  a 
good  deal  of  salt  in  it.  Put  it  in 
when  the  water  boils,  and  let  it  boil 
till  quite  tender.  Serve  it  up  with 
melted  butter. 

SANDWICHES.  Properly  pre- 
pared, these  form  an  elegant  and 
convenient  luncheon;  but  they  have 
got  much  out  of  fashion,  from  the 
bad  manner  in  whieh  they  are  com- 
monly made.  They  have  consisted 
of  any  offal  or  odd  ends,  that  cannot 
be  sent  to  table  in  any  other  form, 
merely  laid  between  slices  of  bread 
and  butter.  Whatever  kind  of  meat 
is  used  however,  it  must  be  carefully 
trimmed  from  every  bit  of  skin  and 
gristle,  and  nothing  introduced  but 
what  is  relishing  and  acceptable. 
Sandwiches  may  be  made  of  any  of 
the  following  materials.  Cold  meat, 
poultry,  potted  meat,  potted  shrimps 
or  lobsters,  potted  cheese;  grated 
ham,  beef,  or  tongue;  anchovy, 
sausages,  cold  pork ;  hard  eggs, 
pounded  with  a  little  butter  and 
cheese  ;  forcemeats,  and  curry  pow- 
der. Mustard,  pepper,  and  salt, 
are  to  be  added,  as  occasion  re- 
quires. 

SAVOURY  BEEF.  The  tongue 
side  of  a  round  of  beef  is  best  adapt- 
ed for  the  purpose  ;  and  if  it  weighs 
about  fifteen  pounds,  let  it  hang 
335 


SAY 


S  A  V 


two  or  three  days.  Then  take  three 
ounces  of  saltpetre,  one  ounce  of 
coarse  sugar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  black  pepper,  some  minced  herbs, 
and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
salt.  Incorporate  these  ingredients 
by  pounding  them  together  in  a 
mortar  ;  and  if  approved,  add  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  ginger.  Take 
out  the  bone,  and  rub  the  meat  well 
with  the  above  mixture,  turning  it 
and  rubbing  it  every  day  for  a  fort- 
night. When  it  is  to  be  dressed, 
put  it  into  a  pan  with  a  quart  of  wa- 
ter. Cover  the  meat  with  about 
three  pounds  of  mutton  suet  chop- 
ped, and  an  onion  or  two  minced 
small.  Put  the  whole  into  a  pan, 
cover  it  with  a  flour  crust,  and  bake 
it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  six  hours. 
Instead  of  baking  it  may  be  covered 
with  water,  and  stewed  very  gently 
for  about  five  hours ;  and  when  sent 
to  table,  cover  the  top  of  it  with 
finely  chopped  parsley.  The  gravy 
will  be  excellent  for  sauce  or  soup, 
or  making  of  soy,  or  browning  ;  and 
being  impregnated  with  salt,  it  will 
keep  several  days.  That  the  suet 
may  not  be  wasted,  when  the  dish 
comes  from  the  oven,  take  out  the 
beef,  and  strain  the  contents  ofe  th 
pan  through  a  sieve.  Clarify  the 
fat  when  cold,  and  it  will  do  for 
frying.  The  meat  should  not  be 
cut  till  it  is  cold,  and  then  with  a 
sharp  knife  to  prevent  waste,  and 
keep  it  smooth  and  even.  This  is 
a  most  excellent  way  of  preparing 
savoury  beef  for  sandwiches,  and 
for  other  elegant  and  economical 
purposes. 

SAVOURY  JELLY.  If  to  put 
over  cold  pies,  make  it  of  a  small 
bare  knuckle  of  veal,  or  of  a  scrag 
of  mutton.  If  the  pie  be  of  fowl  or 
rabbit,  the  carcases,  necks,  and 
heads,  added  to  any  piece  of  meat, 
will  be  sufficient,  observing  to  give 
it  a  consistence  by  adding  cow  heel, 
or  shanks  of  mutton.  Put  the  meat 
into  a  stewpan  that  shuts  very  close, 
adding  a  slice  of  lean  ham  or  bacon, 
336 


a  faggot  of  different  herbs,  two  blades 
of  mace,  an  onion  or  two,  a  small 
bit  of  lemon  peel,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
Jamaica  pepper  bruised,  and  the 
same  of  whole  pepper,  with  three 
pints  of  Vvater.  As  soon  as  it  boils 
skim  it  well,  let  it  simmer  very 
slowly  till  it  is  quite  strong,  and 
then  strain  it.  When  cold  take  off 
the  fat  with  a  spoon  first,  and  then, 
to  remove  every  particle  of  grease, 
lay  on  it  a  clean  piece  of  blotting 
paper.  If  not  clear,  after  being  cold, 
boil  it  a  few  minutes  with  the  whites 
of  two  eggs,  but  do  not  add  the  se- 
diment. Pour  it  through  a  clean 
sieve,  with  a  napkin  in  it,  which  has 
been  dipped  in  boiling  water,  to 
prevent  waste. 

SAVOURY  PIES.  Few  articles 
of  cookery  are  more  generally  ap- 
proved than  relishing  pies,  if  pro- 
perly made ;  and  there  are  various 
things  adapted  to  this  purpose. 
Some  eat  best  cold,  and  in  that  case, 
no  suet  should  be  put  into  the  force- 
meat that  is  used  with  them.  If  the 
pie  is  either  made  of  meat  that  will 
take  more  dressing,  to  make  it  quite 
tender,  than  the  baking  of  the  crust 
will  allow  ;  or  if  it  is  to  be  served  in 
an  earthen  pie-form,  the  following 
preparation  must  be  observed.  For 
instance,  take  three  pounds  of  a 
veiny  piece  of  beef,  that  has  fat  and 
lean  ;  wash  it,  and  season  it  with 
salt,  pepper,  mace,  and  allspice,  in 
fine  powder,  rubbing  them  in  well. 
Set  it  by  the  side  of  a  slow  fire,  in  a 
stewpot  that  will  just  hold  it.  Add 
about  two  ounces  of  butter,  cover  it 
quite  close,  and  let  it  just  simmer  in 
its  own  steam  till  it  begins  to  shrink. 
When  it  is  cold,  add  more  seasoning, 
forcemeat,  and  eggs.  If  in  a  dish, 
put  some  gravy  to  it  before  baking  : 
if  in  a  crust  only,  the  gravy  must  not 
be  added  till  after  it  is  cold,  and  in 
a  jelly.  Forcemeat  may  be  put 
both  under  and  over  the  meat,  if 
preferred  to  balls. 

SAVOURY  RICE.  Wash  and 
pick  some  rice  quite  clean,  stew  i* 


S  A  V 


S  A  V 


ver}  gently  in  a  small  quantity  of 
veal  or  rich  mutton  broth,  with  an 
onion,  a  blade  of  mace,  pepper  and 
salt.  When  swelled,  but  not  boiled 
to  a  mash,  dry  it  on  the  shallow 
part  of  a  sieve  before  the  fire,  and 
either  serve  it  dry,  or  put  it  in  the 
middle  of  a  dish,  and  pour  hot  gravy 
round  it. 

SAVOURY  VEAL  PIE.  Make 
a  good  puff-paste,  and  sheet  your 
dish  ;  cut  the  veal  into  pieces,  sea- 
son it  with  pepper,  mace,  and  nut- 
meg, finely  beat,  and  a  little  salt ; 
lay  it  into  the  crust,  with  lamb- 
stones,  sweetbreads,  the  yolks  of 
hard  eggs,  an  artichoke  bottom  boil- 
ed, and  cut  in  dice,  and  the  tops  of 
asparagus ;  put  in  about  half  a  pint 
of  water,  lay  pieces  of  butter  over 
the  top,  put  on  the  lid,  and  orna- 
ment it  to  your  fancy.  In  a  quick  oven 
about  an  hour  and  an  half  will  bake 
it.  Make  a  caudle  for  it  thus  :  take 
half  a  pint  of  strong  veal  broth,  a 
gill  of  white  wine,  and  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs  ;  set  this  over  the  stove, 
and  keep  it  stirring  ;  put  in  some 
grated  nutmeg,  and  a  little  salt ; 
when  it  boils,  if  there  is  any  scum, 
take  it  off ;  pour  in  a  gill  of  cream, 
keep  it  stirring  till  it  simmers,  then 
take  the  lid  of  your  pie  off  carefully, 
and  pour  the  caudle  over  it,  shake 
it  round,  lay  on  the  lid  as  exact  as 
you  can,  and  send  it  to  table.  You 
may  do  lamb  this  way. 

SAVOURY  VEGETABLE*. 
Wash  a  dish  with  the  white  of  eggs. 
Make  several  divisions  with  mashed 
potatoes  and  yolks  of  eggs  mixed  to- 
gether and  put  on  the  dish,  and 
bake  it  of  a  nice  colour.  In  the 
first  division  put  stewed  spinach,  in 
the  second  mashed  turnips,  in  the 
third  slices  of  carrots,  in  the  fourth 
some  button  onions  stewed  in  gravy, 
or  any  other  kind  of  vegetables  to 
make  a  variety. 

SAVOY    BISCUITS.     Take  six 

eggs,  separate  the  yolks  and  whites, 

mix  the  yolks  with  six  ounces  of 

Bugar  finely  powdered,  and  the  rind 

(No.  15.) 


of  a  grated  lemon.  Beat  them  to- 
gether for  a  quarter  of  an  hour> 
then  whisk  the  whites  up  it  a  broad 
dish  till  they  are  well  frothed,  and 
mix  them  with  the  yolks,  adding  five 
ounces  of  flour  well  dried.  Stir  the 
whole  well  together;  then,  with  a 
piece  of  flat  ivory,  take  out  the  bat- 
ter, and  draw  it  along  clean  white 
paper  to  the  proper  size  of  the  bis- 
cuit. Sift  some  sugar  over  them, 
and  bake  them  in  a  very  hot  oven. 
They  must  however  be  carefully 
watched,  for  they  are  soon  done> 
and  a  few  seconds  over  the  proper 
time  will  scorch  and  spoil  them. 

SAVOY  CAKE.  Put  four  ^ggs 
into  a  scale,  and  then  take  their 
weight  in  fine  sugar,  powdered  and 
sifted,  with  the  weight  of  seven  eggs 
in  flour  well  dried.  Break  the  eggs, 
putting  the  yolks  into  one  basin, 
and  the  whites  into  another.  Mix 
with  the  yolks  the  sugar  that  has 
been  weighed,  a  little  grated  lemon 
peel,  and  a  little  orange-flower  wa- 
ter. Beat  them  well  together  for 
half  an  hour,  then  add  the  whites 
whipped  to  a  froth,  and  mix  in  the 
flour  by  degrees,  continuing  to  beat 
them  all  the  time.  Then  put  the 
batter  into  a  tin  well  buttered,  and 
bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half.  This 
is  a  very  delicate  light  cake  foi* 
serving  at  table,  or  in  a  dessert,  and 
is  pretty  when  baked  in  a  melon 
mould,  or  any  other  kind  of  shape. 
It  may  be  iced  at  pleasure. 

SAUCE  FOR  BOILED  MEAT. 
The  sauces  usually  sent  to  table  with 
boiled  meat,  not  poured  over  the 
dish,  but  put  into  boats,  are  the  fol- 
lowing. Gravy,  parsley  and  butter, 
chervil,  caper,  ouster,  liver  and 
parsley,  onion,  celery,  shalot,  and 
curry.  The  ingredients  for  com- 
pound sauces  should  be  so  nicely 
proportioned,  that  no  one  may  be 
predominant,  but  that  there  may  be 
an  equal  union  of  the  combined  fla- 
vours. All  sauces  should  be  sent 
to  table  as  hot  as  possible,  for  no* 
thing   is   more  unsightly   than   ihf* 

X  X  337 


S  AU 


S  AU 


surface  of  a  sauce  in  a  frozen  state, 
■  or  garnished  with  grease  on  the  top. 
SAUCE  FOR  BRAWN.  Take 
a  peck  of  bran,  seven  gallons  of 
water,  a  pound  of  salt,  a  sprig  of 
bay  and  rosemary.  Boil  the  whole 
half  an  hour,  strain  it  off,  let  it 
stand  till  it  is  cold,  and  then  put  it 
in  the  brawn. 

SAUCE  FOR  CARP.  Rub  half 
a  pound  of  butter  with  a  tea-spoon- 
^  ful  of  flour,  melt  it  in  a  little  water, 
and  add  nearly  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  thick  cream.  Putin  half  an  an- 
chovy chopped  fine,  but  not  wash- 
ed ;  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  as  it 
boils  up,  add  a  large  spoonful  of 
real  India  soy.  If  that  does  not 
give  it  a  fine  colour,  add  a  little 
more.  Turn  it  into  the  sauce  tu- 
reen, and  put  in  some  salt  and  half 
a  lemon.  Stir  it  well  to  keep  it  from 
curdling. 

SAUCE  FOR  CHICKENS.  An 
anchovy  or  two  boned  and  chopped, 
some  parsley  and  onion  chopped, 
adding  pepper,  oil,  vinegar,  mus- 
tard, and  walnut  or  mushroom 
ketchup.  These  mixed  together 
will  make  a  good  sauce  for  cold 
chicken,  partridge,  or  veal. 

SAUCE  FOR  CHOPS.  To  make 
a  relishing  sauce  for  steaks  or  chops, 
pound  an  ounce  of  black  pepper, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  with 
an  ounce  of  salt,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  scraped  horseradish,  and  the 
same  of  shalot  peeled  and  quartered. 
Put  these  ingredients  into  a  pint  of 
mushroom  ketchup,  or  walnut  pickle ; 
let  them  steep  for  a  fortnight,  and 
then  strain  off  the  liquor.  A  tea- 
spoonful  or  two  mixed  with  the  gra- 
vy usually  sent  up  for  chops  and 
steaks,  or  added  to  thick  melted 
butter,  will  be  found  an  agreeahle 
addition. 

SAUCE  FOR  FISH.  Simmer 
very  gently  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
vinegar,  and  half  a  pint  fif  soft  wa- 
ter, with  an  onion,  a  little  horse- 
radish, and  the  following  spices 
lightly  bruised :  four  cloves,  two 
338 


blades  of  mace,  and  half  a  tea-spoon< 
ful   of  black   pepper.      When  the 
onion  becomes  tender,  chop  it  small, 
with  two  anchoviea,  and  boil  it  for 
a  few  minutes  with  a   spoonful  of 
ketchup.     Beat  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  strain  them,  and  mix  the  liquor 
with  them  by  degrees.     When  well 
mixed,  set  the  saucepan  over  a  gen- 
tle  fire,  keeping  the  basin  in  one 
hand,  into  which  toss  the  sauce  to 
and   fro,  and   shake  the   saucepan 
over  the  fire  that  the  eggs  may  not 
curdle.      The   sauce  must   not   be 
boiled,  but  made  hot  enough  to  give 
it  the  thickness  of  melted  butter. — 
The  following  sauces  for  fish  will 
be  found  excellent. — Lobster  sauce. 
Take  a  lobster,  bruise  the  body  and 
spawn,  that  is  in  the  inside,  very 
fine,  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  mince 
the  meat  of  the  tail  and  claws  small, 
melt  your  butter  of  a  good  thick- 
ness, put  in  the  bruised  part,  and- 
shake  it  well  together,  then  put  in 
the  minced  meat  with  a  very  little 
nutmeg  grated,  and  a  spoonful  of 
white  wine  ;  let  it  just  boil  up,  and 
pour  it  into  boats,  or  over  your  fish. 
— Shrimp  sauce.     Put  half  a  pint 
of  shrimps,  clean  picked,  into  a  gill 
of  good  gravy  ;  let  it  boil  up  with       * 
a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and 
a   spoonful   of   red   wine. — 0}ster 
sauce.     Take  a  pint  of  oysters  that 
are  tolerably  large  ;  put  them  into 
a  saucepan  with  their  own  liquor,  a 
blade  of  mace,  a  little  whole  pep-      i 
per,  and  a  bit  of  lemoir  peel ;  let 
them   stew    over   the   fire  till    the 
oysters  are  plump  ;  pour  all  into  a 
clean  pan,  and  wash  them  carefully,      ] 
one  by  one,  out  of  the  liquor ;  strain 
about  a  gill  of  the  liquor  through  a 
fine  sieve,  add  the  same  quantity  of 
good  gravy,   cut  half  a  pound   of 
fresh  butter  in  pieces,  roll  up  some       * 
in  flour,  and  then  put  all  to  your 
oysters ;    set   it    over   a  clear  fire, 
shake  it  round  often  till  it  boils,  and 
add  a  spoonful  of  white  wine  :  let  it 
just   boil,   and   pour    it   into   your 
bason    or    boat. — Anchovy    sauce. 


S  A  U 


S  A  II 


Strip  an  anchovy,  bruise  it  very  fine, 
put  it  into  hahf  a  pint  of  gravy,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  a  spoonful  of  red  wine,  and 
a  tea-spoonful  of  ketchup  ;  boil  all 
together  till  it  is  properly  thick,  and 
serve  it  up. — Another.  Half  a  pint 
of  water,  two  anchovies  split,  a 
clove,  a  bit  of  mace,  a  little  lemon 
peel,  a  few  peppercorns,  and  a  large 
spoonful  of  red  wine  ;  boil  all  to- 
gether, till  your  anchovy  is  dis- 
solved ;  then  strain  it  off,  and  thick- 
en it  with  butter  rolled  in  flour.  This 
is  the  best  sauce  for  skate,  maid,  or 
thornback. 

SAUCE  FOR  FISH  PIES.  Take 
equal  quantities  of  white  wine,  not 
sweet ;  of  vinegar,  oyster  liquor, 
and  mushroom  ketchup.  Boil  them 
up  with  an  anchovy,  strain  the  li- 
quor, and  pour  it  through  a  funnel 
into  the  pie  after  it  is  baked.  Or 
chop  an  anchovy  small,  and  boil  it 
up  with  three  spoonfuls  of  gravy,  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream,  and  a 
little  butter  and  flour. 

SAUCE  FOR  FOWLS.  Cut  up 
the  livers,  add  slices  of  lemon  in 
dice,  scalded  parsley,  some  hard 
tggs,  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  them 
with  butter,  boil  them  up,  and  pour 
the  sauce  over  the  fowls.  This  will 
be  found  an  excellent  sauce  for  rab- 
bit or  fowl,  especially  to  hide  the 
bad  colour  of  fowls.  Or  boil  some 
veal  gravy,  with  pepper  and  salt, 
the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange  and  a 
lemon,  and  a  little  port  wine.  Pour 
it  into  the  dish,  or  send  it  up  in  a 
boat. 

SAUCE  FOR  GOOSE.  Mix  a 
table-spoonful  of  made  mustard, 
and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  cayenne, 
in  a  glass  and  a  half  of  port  wine. 
Heat  and  pour  it  hot  into  the  inside 
of  a  roast  goose  when  it  is  taken  up, 
by  a  slit  made  in  the  apron.  What 
is  sauce  for  a  goose  will  not  make 
bad  sauce  for  a  duck.  It  must  be 
understood  that  this  is  not  adapted 
to  green  geese  or  ducklings. 

SAUCE  FOR  HASHES.     Chop 


the  bones  and  fragments  of  the  joint, 
put  them  into  a  stewpan,  and  cover 
them  with  boiling  water.  Add  six 
peppercorns,  the  same  of  allspice, 
a  handful  of  parsley,  half  a  head  of 
celery  cut  in  pieces,  and  a  small  sprig 
of  savoury,  lemon  thyme,  or  sweet 
marjoram.  Cover  it  up,  and  let  it 
simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour.  Slice 
half  an  ounce  of  onion,  put  it  into 
a  stewpan  with  an  ounce  of  butter, 
and  fry  it  over  a  quick  fire  for  two 
or  three  minutes,  till  it  takes  a  little 
colour.  Thicken  it  with  flour,  and 
mix  with  it  by  degrees  the  gravy 
made  from  the  bones.  Let  it  boil 
very  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
till  it  acquires  the  consistence  of 
cream,  and  strain  it  through  a  fine 
sieve  into  a  basin.  Return  it  to  the 
stewpan,  season  it  a  little,  and  cut 
in  a  few  pickled  onions,  walnuts,  or 
gherkins.  Add  a  table-spoonful  of 
ketchup  or  walnut  pickle,  or  some 
capers  and  caper  liquor,  or  a  table- 
spoonful  of  ale,  a  little  shalot,  or 
tarragon  vinegar.  Cover  the  bot- 
tom of  the  dish  with  sippets  of  bread, 
to  retain  the  gravy,  and  garnish  with 
fried  sippets.  To  hash  meat  in  per- 
fection, it  should  be  laid  in  this  gra- 
vy only  just  long  enough  to  get  pro- 
perly warmed  through. 

SAUCE  FOR  LENT.  Melt  some 
butter  in  a  saucepan^  shake  in  a 
little  flour,  and  brown  it  by  degrees. 
Stir  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  half  a 
pint  of  ale,  an  onion,  a  piece  of 
lemon  peel,  two  cloves,  a  blade  of 
mace,  some  whole  pepper,  a  spoon- 
ful of  ketchup,  and  an  anchovy. 
Boil  it  all  together  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  strain  it,  and  it  will  make  good 
sauce  for  various  dishes. 

SAUCE  FOR  LOBSTER.  Bruise 
the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs 
with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon, 
or  pound  them  in  a  marble  mortar, 
with  a  tea-spoonful  of  water,  and 
the  soft  inside  and  the  spawn  of  the 
lobster.  Rub  them  quite  smooth 
with  a  tea-spoonful  of  made  mus- 
tard, two  table- spoon  fills  of  salad 


S  A  U 


S  AU 


oil,  and  five  of  vinegar.  Season  it 
with  a  very  little  cayenne,  and  some 
salt.  Tarragon  vinegar,  or  essence  of 
anchovy,  may  be  added  occasionally. 

SAUCE  FOR  MINCED  VEAL. 
Take  the  bones  of  cold  roast  or 
boiled  veal,  dredge  them  well  with 
flour,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan. 
Add  a  pint  and  a  half  of  weak  broth, 
a  small  onion,  a  little  grated  or 
finely  minced  lemon  peel,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  blade  of 
pounded  mace.  Thicken  it  with  a 
table-spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  into 
half  an  ounce  of  butter,  stir  it  into 
the  broth,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for 
about  half  an  hour.  Strain  it  through 
a  tammis  or  sieve,  and  it  is  read^ 
to  put  to  the  veal  to  warm  up,  which 
is  to  be  done  by  placing  the  stew- 
pan  by  the  side  of  the  fire.  Squeeze 
in  half  a  lemon,  cover  the  bottom 
of  the  dish  with  sippets  of  toasted 
bread  cut  into  triangles,  and  garnish 
the  dish  with  slices  of  ham  or  bacon. 
A  little  basil  wine  gives  an  agreeable 
vegetable  relish  to  minced  veal. 

SAUCE^  FOR  PARTRIDGE. 
Rub  down  in  a  mortar  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  boiled  hard,  an  anchovy, 
two  dessert-spoonfuls  of  oil,  three 
of  vinegar,  a  shalot,  cayenne  if  ap- 
proved, and  a  tea-spoonful  of  mus- 
tard. All  should  be  pounded  be- 
fore the  oil  is  added,  and  strained 
when  done.  Shalot  vinegar  is  pre- 
ferable to  the  shalot. 

SAUCE  FOR  POULTRY.  Wash 
and  pick  some  chervil  very  carefully, 
put  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  into  half 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  boil  the  cher- 
vil about  ten  minutes,  drain  it  on  a 
sieve,  mince  it  quite  fine,  and  bruise 
it  to  a  pulp.  Mix  it  by  degrees 
with  some  good  melted  butter,  and 
send  it  up  in  a  sauce  boat.  This 
makes  a  fine  sauce  for  either  fish  or 
fowl.  The  flavour  of  chervil  is  a 
strong  concentration  of  the  com- 
bined taste  of  parsley  and  fennel, 
but  is  more  aromatic  and  agreeable 
than  either. 

3AUCE  FOR  QUAILS.  Shred 
340 


two  or  three  shalots,  and  boil  them 
a  few  minutes  in  a  gill  of  water,  and 
half  a  gill  of  vinegar.  Add  to  this 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  gravy, 
and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Shake  it  over  the  fire  till  it  thickens, 
and  then  serve  it  in  the  dish  v/ith 
roast  quails,  or  any  other  small 
birds. 

SAUCE  ROBART.  This  is  a 
favourite  sauce  for  rump  steaks, 
and  is  made  in  the  following  man- 
ner. Put  a  piece  of  butter,  the  size 
of  an  egg,  into  a  saucepan  ;  and 
while  browning  over  the  fire,  throw 
in  a  handful  of  sliced  onions  cut 
small.  Fry  them  brown,  but  do 
not  let  them  burn.  Add  half  a 
spoonful  of  flour,  shake  the  onions 
in  it,  and  give  it  another  fry.  Then 
put  four  spoonfuls  of  gravy,  some 
pepper  and  salt,  and  boil  it  gently 
ten  minutes.  Skim  off  the  fat,  add 
a  tea-spoonful  of  ::^ade  mustard,  a 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.  Boil  it  all  together, 
and  pour  it  round  the  steaks,  which 
should  be  of  a  fine  yellow  brown, 
and  garnished  with  fried  parsley 
and  lemon. 

SAUCE  FOR  STEAKS.  When 
the  steaks  are  taken  out  of  the  fry- 
ingpan,  keep  back  a  spoonful  of  the 
fat,  or  put  in  an  ounce  of  butter. 
Add  flour  to  thicken  it,  and  rub  it 
well  over  the  fire  till  it  is  a  little 
browned.  Then  add  as  much  boil- 
ing water  as  will  reduce  it  to  the 
consistence  of  cream,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  ketchup  or  walnut  pickle. 
Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  pour 
it  through  a  sieve  upon  the  steaks. 
To  this  may  be  added  a  sliced  onion, 
or  a  minced  shalot,  with  a  glass  of 
port  wine.  Broiled  mushrooms  are 
favourite  relishes  to  beef  steaks. 
Garnish  with  finely  scraped  horse- 
radish, pickled  walnuts,  or  gherkins. 

SAUCE  FOR  VEAL.  Mince  any 
kind  of  sweet  herbs  with  the  yolks 
of  two  or  three  hard  eggs.  Boil 
them  together  with  sonje  currants, 
a  little  grated  bread,  pounded  cifl- 


S  A  U 


SC  A 


nanion,  sugar,  and  two  whole  cloves. 
Pour  the  sauce  into  the  dish  intend- 
ed for  the  veal,  with  two  or  three 
slices  of  orange. 

SAUCE  FOR  WILD  FOWL. 
Simmer  a  tea- cupful  of.  port  wine, 
the  same  quantity  of  good  meat  gra- 
vy, a  little  shalot,  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  and  a 
bit  of  mace,  for  ten  minutes.  Put 
in  a  piece  of  butter,  and  flour  ;  give 
it  all  one  boil,  and  pour  it  through 
the  birds.  In  general  they  are  not 
stuffed  as  tame  fowl,  but  may  be 
.done  so  if  approved. 

SAUSAGES.  Chop  fat  and  lean 
pork  together,  season  it  with  sage, 
pepper,  salt,  and  two  or  three  ber- 
ries of  allspice.  Half  fill  some  hog's 
guts  that  have  been  soaked  and  made 
extremely  clean  ;  or  the  meat  may 
be  kept  in  a  very  small  pan  closely 
covered,  and  so  rolled  and  dusted 
with  a  very  little  flour  before  it  is 
fried.  The  sausages  must  be  prick- 
ed with  a  fork  before  they  are  dress- 
ed, or  they  will  burst  in  the  frying. 
Serve  them  on  stewed  red  cabbage, 
or  mashed  potatoes  put  in  a  form, 
and  browned  with  a  salamander. — 
The  following  is  the  way  of  making 
excellent  sausages  to  eat  cold.  Sea- 
son some  fat  and  lean  pork  with  salt, 
saltpetre,  black  pepper,  and  all- 
spice, all  in  fine  powder.  Rub  the 
mixture  into  the  meat,  and  let  it  lie 
in  pickle  for  six  days.  Then  cut 
it  small,  and  mix  with  it  some  shred 
shalot  or  garlic,  as  fine  as  possible. 
Have  ready  an  ox-gut  that  has  been 
scoured,  salted,  and  well  soaked, 
and  fill  it  with  the  above  stufling. 
Tie  up  the  ends,  and  hang  it  to 
smoke  as  you  would  hams,  but  first 
wrap  it  in  a  fold  or  two  of  old  mus- 
lin. It  must  be  high  dried.  Some 
choose  to  boil  it,  but  others  eat  it 
without  boiling.  The  skin  should 
be  tied  in  different  places,  so  as  to 
make  each  link  about  eight  or  nine 
inches  longf. . 

SAUSAGES  WITH  APPLES. 
Fry  some  sliced  apples  with  the  sau- 


sages, till  they  are  of  a  light  brown. 
Lay  the  sausages  in  the  middle  of 
the  dish,  and  the  apples  round  them. 
Or  fry  them  without  apples,  and 
serve  them  up  on  fried  bread,  with 
mashed  potatoes.  Or  put  the  sau- 
sages into  boiling  water,  simmer 
them  about  five  minutes,  and  serve 
them  up  with  poached  eggs,  or  roast- 
ed potatoes. 

SCALDS.  When  a  burn  or  scald 
is  trifling,  and  occasions  no  blister, 
it  is  sufficient  to  put  a  compress  of 
several  folds  of  soft  linen  upon  it, 
dipped  in  cold  water,  and  to  renew 
it  every  quarter  of  an  hour  till  the 
pain  is  entirely  removed.  When  a 
burn  or  scald  blisters,  a  compress 
of  fine  linen  spread  over  with  soft 
pomatum  should  be  applied  to  it, 
and  changed  twice  a  day.  If  the 
skin  is  burnt  through,  and  the  flesh 
under  it  injured,  the  same  pomatum 
may  be  applied  ;  but  instead  of  a 
compress  of  linen,  it  should  be  spread 
upon  a  piece  of  soft  lint,  applied  di- 
rectly over  it,  and  this  cover  with  a 
slip  of  simple  adhesive  plaster.  For 
an  extensive  burn  or  scald,  skil^l 
advice  should  immediately  be  ob- 
tained, as  it  always  endangers  the 
life  of  the  suflferer.  A  linen  rag 
dipped  in  laudanum,  or  spread  thick 
with  honey,  will  be  sufficient  in  or- 
dinary cases.  The  pomatum  pro- 
per, where  any  serious  injury  has 
been  sustained,  is  made  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner.  Take  an  ounce  of 
the  ointmentcalled  nutritum,the  yolk 
of  a  small  egg,  or  the  half  of  a  large 
one,  and  mix  them  well  together. 
The  nutritum  may  easily  be  made 
by  rubbing  two  drams  of  cerus,  or 
white  lead,  with  half  an  ounce  of 
vinegar,  and  three  ounces  of  com- 
mon oil,  and  mixing  them  well  toge- 
ther. If  the  ingredients  for  making 
nutritum  are  not  at  hand,  to  make 
the  pomatum,  one  part  of  wax  should 
be  melted  with  eight  parts  of  oil, 
and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  added  to 
two  ounces  of  this  mixture.  A  still 
more  simple  application,  and  sooner 
341 


SCA 


SC  A 


prepared,  is  to  beat  up  a  whole  egg 
with  two  spoonfuls  of  sweet  oil,  free 
from  any  rankness.  When  the  pain 
of  the  burn  and  all  its  other  symp- 
toms have  nearly  subsided,  it  will 
be  sufficient  to  apply  the  following 
plaster.  Boil  together  to  a  proper 
consistence,  half  a  pound  of  oil  of 
roses,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  red 
lead,  and  two  ounces  of  vinegar. 
Dissolve  in  the  mixture  three  quar- 
ters of  an  ounce  of  yellow  wax,  and 
one  dram  of  camphor,  stirring  the 
whole  well  together.  Take  it  off 
the  fire,  and  spread  it  upon  sheets 
or  slips  of  paper,  of  any  size  that 
may  be  most  convenient.  For  an 
adhesive  plaster,  melt  four  ounces 
of  white  wax,  and  add  one  or  two 
spoonfuls  of  oil.  Dip  into  this  mix- 
ture, slips  of  moderately  thin  linen, 
and  let  them  dry  ;  or  spread  it  thin 
and  evenly  over  them. — The  follow- 
ing is  a  highly  esteemed  method  of 
curing  scalds  or  burns.  Take  half 
a  pound  of  alum  in  powder,  dissolve 
it  in  a  quart  of  water ;  bathe  the 
burn  or  scald  with  a  linen  rag  wet 
in  -this  mixture ;  then  bind  the  wet 
rag  thereon  with  a  slip  of  linen,  and 
moisten  the  bandage  with  the  alum 
water  frequently,  without  removing 
it,  in  the  course  of  two  or  three 
days.  A  workman  who  fell  into  a 
copper  of  boiling  liquor,  where  he 
remained  three  minutes  before  taken 
out,  was  immediately  put  into  a  tub 
containing  a  saturated  solution  of 
alum  in  water,  where  he  was  kept 
two  hours ;  his  sores  were  then 
dressed  with  cloths  and  bandages, 
wet  in  the  above  mixture,  and  kept 
constantly  moistened  for  twenty- 
four  hours,  and  in  a  few  days  he 
was  able  to  return  to  business. — 
The  application  of  vinegar  to  burns 
and  scalds  is  to  be  strongly  recom- 
mended. It  possesses  active  powers, 
and  is  a  great  antiseptic  and  coi*- 
rector  of  putrescence  and  mortifica- 
tion. The  progressive  tendency  of 
burns  of  the  unfavourable  kind,  or 
ill-treated,  is  to  putrescence  and 
342 


mortification.  Where  the  outward 
skin  is  not  broken,  it  may  be  freely 
used  every  hour  or  two  ;  where  the 
skin  is  broken,  and  if  it  gives  pain, 
it  must  be  gently  used.  But  equal 
parts  of  vinegar  and  water,  in  a  tepid 
state,  used  freely  every  three  or  four 
hours,  are  generally  the  best  appli- 
cation, and  the  best  rule  to  be  di- 
rected by. — House-leek,  either  ap- 
plied by  itself,  or  mixed  with  cream, 
gives  present  relief  in  burns,  and 
other  external  inflammations. 

SCALD  HEAD.  This  disorder 
is  chiefly  incident  to  children,  and 
is  seated  in  the  roots  of  the  hair. 
It  is  frequently  cured  by  changing 
the  nurse,  weaning  the  child,  and 
removing  it  to  a  dry  and  airy  situa- 
tion. If  the  itching  of  the  head  be- 
comes very  troublesome,  it  may  be 
allayed  by  gently  rubbing  it  with 
equal  parts  of  the  oil  of  sweet  al- 
monds, and  the  juice  expressed  from 
the  leaves  of  the  common  burdock, 
simmered  together  till  they  form  a 
soapy  liniment,  adding  a  few  grains 
only  of  pearlash.  If  this  treatment 
be  not  sufficient,  cut  oft'  the  hair,  or 
apply  an  adhesive  plaster  made  of 
bees'  wax,  pitch,  and  mutton  suet. 
After  it  is  removed,  the  head  should 
be  washed  with  warm  soapy  water, 
and  the  whole  body  cleansed  in  a 
lukewarm  bath. 

SCALDED  CODLINS.  Wrap 
each  in  a  vine  leaf,  and  pack  them 
close  in  a  nice  saucepan  :  when  full, 
pour  in  as  much  water  as  will  cover 
them.  Set  the  saucepan  over  a  gen- 
tle fire,  and  let  them  simmer  slowly 
till  done  enough  to  take  the  thin 
skin  off  when  cold.  Place  them  in 
a  dish,  with  or  without  milk,  cream 
or  custard  :  if  the  latter,  there  should 
be  no  ratafia.  Dust  some  fine  sugar 
over  the  apples. 

SCALDED  CREAM.  Let  the 
milk  stand  twenty-four  hours  in  win- 
ter, and  twelve  at  least  in  sum- 
mer. Place  the  milk  pan  on  a  hot 
hearth,  or  in  a  wide  brass  kettle  of 
water,  large  enough  to  receive  the 


SC  A 


SCO 


pan.  It  must  remain  on  the  fire  till 
quite  hot,  but  on  no  account  boil, 
or  there  will  be  a  skim  instead  of 
cream  upon  the  milk.  Wheu  it  is 
done  enough,  the  undulations  on  the 
surface  will  begin  to  look  thick,  and 
a  ring  will  appear  round  the  pan, 
the  size  of  the  bottom.  The  time 
required  to  scald  cream  depends  on 
the  size  of  the  pan,  and  the  heat  of 
the  fire ;  but  the  slower  it  is  done 
the  better.  When  the  cream  is 
scalded,  remove  the  pan  into  the 
dairy,  and  skim  it  the  next  day.  In 
cold  weather  it  may  stand  thirty-six 
hours,  and  never  less  than  two  meals. 
In  the  west  of  England,  butter  is 
usually  made  of  cream  thus  pre- 
pared ;  and  if  made  properly  it  is 
very  firm. 

SCALDING  FRUIT.  The  best 
way  of  scalding  any  kind  of  fruit, 
is  to  do  it  in  a  stone  jar  on  a  hot 
iron  hearth  ;  or  by  putting  the  ves- 
sel into  a  saucepan  of  water,  called 
a  water-bath.  Vinegar  also  is  best 
boiled  in  the  same  manner. 

SCALDING  PUDDING.  From 
a  pint  of  new  milk  take  out  enough 
to  mix  three  large  spoonfuls  of  flour 
into  a  smooth  batter.  Set  the  re- 
mainder of  the  milk  on  the  fire,  and 
when  it  is  scalding  hot,  pour  in  the 
batter,  and  keep  it  on  the  fire  till  it 
thickens.  Stir  it  all  the  time  to 
prevent  its  burning,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil.  When  of  a  proper  thickness, 
pour  it  into  a  basin,  and  let  it  stand 
to  cool.  Then  put  in  six  eggs,  a 
little  sugar,  and  some  nutmeg.  Boil 
it  an  hour  in  a  basin  well  buttered. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS.  Hav- 
ing opened  the  oysters,  and  washed 
them  from  the  grit,  put  them  into 
scallop  shells  or  saucers,  and  bake 
them  before  the  fire  in  a  Dutch  oven. 
Add  to  them  some  crumbs  of  bread, 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  bit  of 
butter,  before  they  are  set  to  the 
fire. — Another  way.  To  fill  four 
scallop  shells,  have  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  oysters,  put  them  on  the  fire,  in 
their  own   liquor,  with  a  blade  of 


mace,  a  little  salt,  and  some  whole 
pepper ;  (put  a  salamander  in  the 
fire  to  be  red  hot,)  grate  some 
crumbs  of  bread  suflicient  for  your 
shells  ;  butter  the  inside  of  theshells 
very  well,  and  strew  bread  crumbs 
thereon ;  take  your  oysters  off  the 
fire,  pour  them  into  a  pan,  take  off 
the  beards,  and  fill  the  shells  ;  grate 
a  little  nutmeg  into  every  shell,  put 
a  spoonful  or  two  of  the  liquor  upon 
the  oysters,  and  fill  up  the  shells 
quite  full  with  bread  crumbs  ;  set 
them  before  the  tire,  and  baste  them 
with  butter  all  over  the  bread,  then 
set  them  upon  a  gridiron  over  a 
clear  fire,  for  about  half  an  hour ; 
hold  your  salamander  over  them, 
till  they  are  of  a  fine  brown,  then 
send  them  to  table  for  a  side-dish. 
In  the  same  manner  do  shrimps, 
muscles,  or  cockles. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES. 
When  boiled,  mash  them  with  milk, 
pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Fill  some 
scallop  shells,  smooth  the  tops,  set 
them  in  a  Dutch  oven  to  brown  before 
the  fire  ;  or  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
and  mash  them  with  cream,  butter, 
salt,  and  pepper.  Score  the  top  with 
a  knife,  and  put  thin  slices  over,  be- 
fore they  are  put  into  the  oven. 

SCALLOPED  VEAL.  Mince  it 
fine,  set  it  over  the  fire  a  few  mi- 
nutes, with  pepper  and  salt,  a  little 
nutmeg  and  cream.  Put  it  into 
scallop  shells,  and  fill  them  up  with 
grated  bread  ;  over  which  put  a  lit- 
tle butter,  and  brown  them  before 
the  fire. 

SCARLET  DYE.  Wool  may  be 
dyed  scarlet,  the  most  splendid  of 
all  colours,  by  first  boiling  it  in  a 
solution  of  muris-sulphate  of  tin  ; 
then  dying  it  a  pale  yellow  with 
quercitron  bark,  and  afterwards 
crimson  with  cochineal. 

SCORCHED  LINEN.  Boil  to  a 
good  consistency,  in  half  a  pint  of 
vinegar,  two  ounces  of  fuller's  earth, 
an  ounce  of  hen's  dung,  half  an 
ounce  of  cake  soap,  and  the  juice 
of  two  onions.  Spread  tliis  com- 
343 


SCO 


SCO 


position  over  the  whole  of  the  da- 
maged part ;  and,  if  the  scorching 
were  not  quite  through,  and  the 
threads  actually  consumed,  after 
suffering  it  to  dry  on,  and  letting  it 
^  receive  a  subsequent  good  washing 
or  two,  the  place  will  appear  full  as 
white  and  perfect  as  any  other  part 
of  the  linen. 

SCOTCH  BARLEY  BROTH. 
Cut  a  leg  of  beef  into  pieces,  and 
boil  it  in  three  gallons  of  water, 
with  a  sliced  carrot  and  crust  of 
bread,  till  reduced  to  half  the  quan- 
tity. Strain  it  off,  and  put  it  again 
into  the  pot.  Boil  it  an  hour,  with 
half  a  pound  of  Scotch  barley,  a 
few  heads  of  celery  cut  small,  a 
sprig  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion,  a 
little  minced  parsley,  and  a  few 
marigolds.  Put  in  a  large  fowl,  and 
boil  it  till  the  broth  is  good.  Sea- 
son it  with  salt,  take  out  the  onion 
and  herbs,  and  serve  it  up  with  the 
fowl  in  the  middte.  Broth  may  be 
made  with  a  sheep's  head  chopped 
in  pieces,  or  six  pounds  of  thick 
flank  of  beef,  boiled  in  six  quarts  of 
water.  Put  the  barley  in  with  the 
meat,  and  boil  it  gently  for  an  hour, 
keeping  it  clear  from  scum.  The 
articles  before-mentioned  may  then 
be  added,  with  sliced  turnips  and 
carrots,  and  boiled  together  till  the 
broth  is  good.  Season  it,  take  it 
up,  pour  the  broth  into  a  tureen, 
with  the  meat  in  the  middle,  and 
carrots  and  turnips  round  the  dish. 
SCOTCH  BURGOO.  This  is  a 
sort  of  oatmeal  hasty  pudding  with- 
out milk,  much  used  by  the  Scotch 
peasantry  ;  and  as  an  example  of 
economy,  is  worthy  of  being  occa- 
sionally adopted  by  all  who  have 
large  families  and  small  incomes. 
It  is  made  in  the  following  easy  and 
expeditious  manner.  To  a  quark  of 
oatmeal,  add  gradually  two  quarts 
of  water,  so  that  the  whole  may 
mix  smoothly.  Stir  it  continually 
over  the  fire,  and  boil  it  for  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour.  Take  it  up,  and  stir 
in  a  little  salt  and  butter,  with  or 
344 


without  pepper.  This  quantity  wiL 
provide  five  or  six  persons  with  a 
tolerable  meal. 

SCOTCH  COLLOPS.  Cut  veal 
into  thin  round  slices,  about  three 
inches  over,  and  beat  them  with  a 
rolHng-pin.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg 
over,  dip  them  into  the  yolk  of  an 
eg^,  and  fry  them  in  a  little  butter 
of  a  fine  brown.  Pour  off  the  but- 
ter, and  have  ready  warmed  half  a 
pint  of  gravy,  with  a  little  butter 
and  flour  in  it,  the  yolk  of  an  eg;g, 
two  large  spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  a 
dust  of  salt.  Do  not  boil  the  sauce, 
but  stir  it  till  it  comes  to  a  tine 
thickness,  and  pour  it  over  the  col- 
lops. — Another  way.  Take  what 
quantity  of  veal  you  want,  cut  into 
collops,  and  beat  it  with  the  back 
of  a  knife ;  season  as  above,  and 
fry  them  in  butter  of  a  fine  brown  ; 
pour  off  the  butter,  and  put  in  half 
a  pint  of  good  gravy,  and  a  small 
glass  of  white  wine  :  you  may  add 
what  other  ingredients  you  please. 
Roll  a  piece  of  butter  as  big  as  a 
walnut  in  flour,  tos?  it  up,  and  when 
it  boils,  take  off  the  scum  very  clean : 
let  your  sauce  be  thick  enough  to 
hang  ;  dish  it  up,  and  garnish  to 
your  fancy. — Another  way  :  dressed 
white.  Take  three  or  four  pounds 
of  a  fillet  of  veal,  cut, in  small  thin 
slices  ;  then  take  a  clean  stewpan, 
butter  it  on  the  inside  ;  season  your 
collops  with  beaten  mace,  nutmeg, 
and  salt ;  dust  them  over  with  flour, 
and  lay  them  into  your  stewpan, 
piece  by  piece,  till  all  your  meat  is 
in  :  set*  it  over  the  stove,  and  toss 
it  up  together,  till  all  your  meat  be 
white.  Put  in  half  a  pint  of  strong 
veal  broth  ;  let  them  boil,  and  take 
off  all  the  scum  clean  ;  beat  up  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  in  a  gill  of  cream, 
and  put  it  to  your  collops,  and  keep 
it  tossing  all  the  while,  till  it  just 
boils  up;  then  squeeze  in  a  little 
lemon,  toss  it  round,  and  dish  it  up. 
Garnish  your  dish  with  sliced  lemon 
If  you  would  make  a  fine  dish  of  it, 
when  you  put  in  your  veal  broth. 


SCO 


scu 


you  must  add  morels,  truffles,  mush- 
rooms, artichoke  bottoms  cut  in  small 
dice,  force-meat  balls  boiled,  not 
fried,  and  a  few  cock's  combs ;  then 
garnish  your  dish  with  fried  oysters, 
petit-pasties,  lemon,  and  barberries. 
Remember  when  you  make  a  made 
dish,  and  are  obliged  to  use  cream, 
that  it  should  be  the  last  thing  ;  for 
it  is  apt  to  curdle  if  it  boils  at  any 
time. 

SCOTCH  EGGS.  Boil  five  pul- 
let's eggs  quite  hard;  and  without 
removing  the  white,  cover  them  com- 
pletely with  a  fine  relishing  force- 
meat, in  which,  let  scraped  ham,  or 
chopped  anchovy,  bear  a  due  propor- 
tion. Fry  of  a  beautiful  yellow 
brown,  and  serve  with  good  gravy  in 
the  dish. 

SCOTCH  LEEK  SOUP.  Prepare 
a  sheep's  head,  either  by  cleaning 
the  skin  very  nicely,  or  taking  it  off, 
as  preferred.  Split  the  head  in  two, 
take  out  the  brains,  and  put  it  into 
a  kettle  with  plenty  of  water.  Add 
a  large  quantity  of  leeks  cut  small, 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Stew  these 
very  slowly  for  three  hours.  Mix  as 
much  oatmeal  as  will  make  the  soup 
pretty  thick,  and  make  it  very  smooth 
with  cold  water.  Pour  it  into  the 
soup,  continue  stirring  it  till  the 
whole  is  smooth  and  well  done,  and 
then  serve  it  up. 

SCOTCH  PANCAKES.  To  a 
pint  of  cream  beat  up  eight  eggs, 
leaving  out  two  whites,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter  melted,  one  spoon- 
full  of  flour,  a  nutmeg  grated,  three 
spoonfuls  of  sack,  and  a  little  sugar. 
When  the  butter  is  cool,  mix  all  to- 
gether into  a  batter ;  have  ready  a 
stove  with  charcoal,  and  a  small  fry- 
ingpan  no  bigger  than  a  plate,  tie  a 
piece  of  butter  in  a  clean  cloth ;  when 
the  pan  is  hot  rub  this  round  it,  and 
put  in  the  batter  with  a  spoon,  run  it 
round  the  pan  very  thin  and  fry  them 
only  on  one  side  ;  put  a  saucer  into 
the  middle  of  the  dish,  and  lay  pan- 
cakes over  it,  till  it  is  like  a  little 
pyramid  ;  strew  pounded  sugar  be- 


tween every  pancake,  and  garnish 
the  dish  with  Seville  oranges  cut  in 
small  quarters. 

SCOURING  BALLS.  Portable 
balls  for  removing  spots  from  clothes, 
may  be  thus  prepared.  Dry  some 
fuller's-earth,  so  that  it  crumbles  in- 
to a  powder;  then  moisten  it  with 
the  clear  juice  of  lemons,  and  add  a 
small  quantity  of  pure  pearl-ash. 
Knead  the  whole  carefully  together, 
till  it  acquires  the  consistence  of  a 
thick  elastic  paste :  form  it  into  con- 
venient small  balls,  and  dry  them  in 
the  sun.  To  be  used,  first  moisten 
the  spot  on  the  clothes  with  water, 
then  rub  it  with  the  ball,  and  let  the 
spot  dry  in  the  sun.  After  having 
washed  it  with  pure  water,  the  spot 
will  entirely  disappear. 

SCROPHULA.  The  principal  dif- 
ficulty in  curing  the  scrophula,  or 
king's  evil,  arises  from  the  circum- 
stance, that  it  may  remain  concealed 
for  a  long  time,  and  thus  become 
deeply  rooted  in  the  constitution 
before  its  effects  are  evident.  The 
system  requires  to  be  strengthened 
by  the  free  use  of  Peruvian  bark, 
sea  water  and  sea  bathing,  and  mo- 
derate exercise  in  the  open  air. 
Hemlock  plasters  applied  to  the 
swellings,  and  drinking  of  milk  whey, 
have  also  been  found  useful.  But  in 
the  progress  of  the  disorder,  medice^l 
advice  will  be  necessary. 

SCURVY.  When  the  scurvy  pro- 
ceeds chiefly  from  the  long-continued 
use  of  salt  provisions,  it  will  be  ne- 
cessary to  take  large  portions  of  the 
juice  of  lemons,  oranges,  or  tama- 
rinds ;  to  eat  water  cresses,  scurvy 
grass,  and  fresh  vegetables  of  every 
description.  But  where  these  cannot 
be  procured,  pickled  cabbage,  cu- 
cumber, onions,  and  other  fruits,  as 
well  as  horseradish  and  mustard,  may 
be  taken  with  considerable  advan- 
tage. Take  also  a  pound  of  water- 
dock  roots,  and  boil  them  in  six  pints 
of  water,  adding  an  ounce  or  two  of 
chrystals  of  tartar,  till  one  third  part 
of  the  liquor   be  evaporated  ;  and 

Y  y  345 


SEA 


S  E  A 


drink  half  a  pint  or  more  of  it  every 
day.  Raw  carrots  eaten  are  also  very 
good  for  the  scurvy  ;  and  during  a 
voyage,  they  should  be  packed  up  in 
casks  of  sand  and  kept  for  use.  If 
the  limbs  be  swelled,  or  joints  stiff, 
it  will  be  proper  to  foment  them  with 
warm  vinegar,  or  bathe  them  in  luke- 
warm water.  A  valuable  ointment 
may  be  made  of  a  pound  of  fresh 
lard,  and  as  much  cliver  or  goose- 
^ass  as  the  lard  will  moisten.  Boil 
them  together  over  a  slow  tire,  stir 
the  mixture  till  it  turns  brown,  and 
strain  it  through  a  cloth.  Take  the 
ointment  from  the  water,  and  rub  it 
on  the  parts  affected. 

SCURVY  GRASS  ALE.  Brew 
it  as  for  other  ale,  omitting  the  hops ; 
and  when  the  liquor  boils,  put  in 
half  a  bushel  of  fine  wormwood,  a 
bushel  of  scurvy  grass,  and  twelve 
pounds  of  sugar.  This  quantity  of 
ingredients  is  sufficient  for  a  hogs- 
head. 

SEA-KALE  is  a  highly  nutriti- 
ous and  palatable  culinary  vegetable. 
It  is  an  early  esculent  plant,  the 
young  shoots  of  which  are  used  some- 
what in  the  manner  of  asparagus,  and 
may,  it  is  said,  be  grown  by  the  me- 
thod of  cultivation  which  is  given 
hereafter,  to  a  size  and  of  a  delicacy 
of  flavour  greatly  superior  to  that 
which  is  commonly  brought  to  the 
table.  In  the  cultivation  of  it  in  the 
garden,  the  improved  method  which 
has  lately  been  advised,  is  that  of 
preparing  the  ground  for  it  by  trench- 
ing it  two  feet  and  a  half  deep,  about 
the  close  of  the  year  or  in  the  begin- 
ning of  it :  when  not  that  depth  na- 
turally, and  of  a  light  quality,  it  is 
to  be  made  so  by  artificial  means, 
such  as  the  applying  of  a  suitable 
proportion  of  fine  white  sand,  and 
very  rotten  vegetable  mould  :  if  the 
ground  be  wet  in  the  winter  season, 
it  should  be  completely  drained,  that 
no  water  may  stagnate  in  it  near  the 
bottom  of  the  cultivated  mould,  as 
the  strength  of  the  plants  depends 
Upon  the  dryness  and  richness  of 
346 


the  bottom  soil.  After  which  the 
ground  is  to  be  divided  into  beds, 
four  feet  in  width,  with  alleys  of 
eighteen  inches  between  them  ;  then, 
at  the  distance  of  every  two  feet  each 
way,  five  or  six  seeds  are  to  be  sown, 
in  a  circle  of  about  four  inches  dia- 
meter, to  the  depth  of  two  inches. 
This  business  should  be  performed 
in  a  strictly  regular  and  exact  man- 
ner, as  the  plants  are  afterwards  to 
be  covered  by  means  of  pots  for 
blanching  them,  and  the  health  and 
beauty  of  the  crops  equally  depend 
upon  their  standing  at  regular  dis- 
tances. If  the  seeds  which  were 
sown  were  sound  and  perfect,  they 
will  come  up  and  shew  themselves 
in  the  last  spring  or  beginning  sum- 
mer months  ;  which  as  soon  as  they 
have  made  three  or>four  leaves,  all 
but  three  of  the  strongest  and  best 
plants  should  be  taken  away  from 
each  circle ;  planting  out  those 
which  are  pulled  up,  which,  when 
done  by  a  careful  hand,  may  be 
performed  so  as  for  them  to  have  the 
whole  of  their  tap-root  in  a  spare 
bed  for  extra  forcing,  or  the  repairs 
of  accidents.  The  turnip  fly  and 
wire  worm  are  to  be  carefully  guard- 
ed against,  the  latter  by  picking 
them  by  the  hand  from  out  of  the 
ground,  and  the  former  by  the  use 
of  lime  laid  round  the  young  plants 
in  a  circle.  When  the  summer 
months  prove  dry,  the  beds  should 
be  plentifully  watered.  As  soon  as 
the  leaves  decay  in  the  autumn  they 
should  be  cleared  away,  and  the 
beds  be  covered  with  light  fresh 
earth  and  sand  to  the  thickness  of 
an  inch  ;  the  compost  thus  used 
having  laid  some  time  in  a  heap, 
and  been  turned  several  times,  so  as 
to  be  free  from  weeds,  and  the  ova 
of  insects  as  well  as  grubs.  Upon 
the  sandy  loam  dressing,  about  six 
inches  in  depth  of  light  stable  litter 
is  to  be  applied,  which  completes 
the  work  of  the  first  year.  In  the 
spring  of  the  second,  when  the 
pi  nts  are  beginning  to   push,  the 


SEA 


SEA 


stable  litter  is  to  be  raked  off,  a  lit  • 
tie  of  the  most  rotten  being  dug  in- 
to the  alleys,  and  another  inch 
depth  of  loam  and  sand  applied. 
Cutting  this  year  is  to  be  refrained 
from,  notwithstanding  some  of  the 
plants  may  rise  strong,  and  the  beds 
managed  exactly  as  before  during 
this  winter  season.  In  the  third 
season,  a  little  before  the  plants 
begin  to  stir,  the  covering  laid  on 
for  the  winter  is  to  be  raked  off,  and 
an  inch  in  depth  of  pure  dry  sand 
or  fine  gravel  now  laid  on.  Then 
each  circle  of  plants  is  to  be  cover- 
ed with  one  of  the  blanching-pots 
already  alluded  to,  pressing  it  firmly 
into  the  ground,  so  as  to  exclude  all 
light  and  air,  as  the  colour  and  fla- 
vour* of  the  shoots  are  greatly  in- 
jured by  exposure  to  either  of  them. 
When  the  beds  are  twenty-six  feet 
long,  and  four  wide,  they  will  hold 
twenty-four  blanching-pots,  with 
three  plants  under  each,  making 
seventy-two  plants  in  a  bed.  They 
arc  to  be  examined  from  time  to 
time,  the  young  stems  being  cut, 
when  about  three  inches  above  the 
ground,  care  being  taken  not  to  in- 
jure any  of  the  remaining  buds  be- 
low, some  of  which  will  immediately 
begin  to  swell.  In  this  way  a  suc- 
cession of  gatherings  may  be  con- 
tinued for  the  space  of  six  weeks, 
after  which  period  the  plants  are  to 
be  uncovered,  and  their  leaves  suf- 
fered to  grow,  that  they  may  acquire 
and  return  nutriment  to  the  root  for 
the  next  year's  buds.  When  seeds 
are  not  wanted,  the  flowers  should 
be  pinched  off  by  the  finger  and 
thumb,  as  long  as  they  appear. 
Where  the  expence  of  blanching- 
pots  is  objected  to,  the  beds  must 
be  covered  with  a  large  portion  of 
loose  gravel  and  mats  ;  but  the 
saving  is  trifling,  when  the  time  and 
trouble  of  removing  and  replacing 
the  gravel,  for  the  cutting  of  the 
crop  and  securing  the  plant,  are 
considered.  By  this  mode  of  ma- 
oagement,  sea-kale  is  said  to  have 


been  cut  whicli  measured  ten,  eleven, 
and  even  twelve  inches  in  circum- 
ference, and  that  each  blanching- 
pot  on  the  average  afforded  a  dish 
of  it  twice  in  the  season.  The 
blanching-pots  for  this  use  are  some- 
what of  the  same  shape  and  size  as 
the  large  bell-glasses  commonly  em- 
ployed in  market  gardens  for  rais- 
ing tender  vegetable  crops,  but  made 
of  the  same  materials  as  the  com- 
mon earthenware,  having  a  handle 
at  the  top.  They  may  be  about  a 
foot  and  a  half  in  diameter  at  the 
rim  where  they  apply  to  the  ground. 
Forcing  sea-kale. — It  is  supposed 
that  no  vegetable  can  be  so  easily 
and  cheaply  forced  as  this,  or  re- 
quire so  little  trouble  ;  as  the  dung 
is  in  the  finest  state  possible  for 
spring  hot-beds,  after  the  common 
crop  has  been  cut  and  gathered. 
The  principal  circumstance  neces- 
sary in  this  business,  is  that  of  be- 
ing very  attentive  and  particular  in 
guarding  against  too  great  a  heat. 
The  temperature  under  the  blanch- 
ing-pots should  constantly  be  kept 
as  near  fifty-five  degrees  of  Fahren- 
heit's scale  as  possible,  and  on  no 
account  higher  than  sixty  at  any 
time.  In  this  intention,  in  either  of 
the  two  concluding  months  of  the 
year,  as  the  sea-kale  may  be  want- 
ed more  early  or  late,  a  suitable 
quantity  of  fresh  stable  dung  should  ' 
be  collected  and  prepared,  to  cover 
both  the  beds  and  the  alleys  from 
two  to  three  feet  in  height ;  as  in 
the  quantity  to  be  laid  on,  a  great 
deal  must  always  be  left  to  the 
judgment  of  the  gardener,  as  well 
as  to  the  state  of  the  season  as  to 
mildness  or  severity.  It  should  in- 
variably be  well  pressed  down  be- 
tween the  blanching-pots,  heat- 
sticks  being  placed  at  proper  inter- 
vals, by  the  occasional  examination 
of  which  the  heat  below  will  be 
readily  shewn.  When  the  dung  has 
remained  in  this  situation  four  or 
five  days,  the  pots  shojild  be  ex- 
amined to  see  the  state  of  the  vshoots 
347 


SEA 


SEA 


It  not  unfrequently  happens  that 
worms  spring  above  the  surface,  and 
spoil  the  delicacy  of  flavour  in  the 
young  shoots.  In  order  to  prevent 
this,  it  is  best  to  cover  it  with  dry 
sea-coal  ashes,  which  have  been 
sifted  neither  very  small  nor  very 
large.  Salt  has  also  the  power  of 
destroying  them  in  an  effectual 
manner,  without  injuring  the  sea- 
kale.  The  crop,  it  is  said,  will  be 
ready  to  cut  and  gather  in  three 
weeks  or  a  month  from  the  first  ap- 
plication of  the  heat ;  but  as  much 
danger  and  mischief  are  the  conse- 
quence when  this  is  violent,  it  is  ad- 
vised to  begin  soon  enough,  and  to 
force  slowly,  rather  than  in  too 
quick  a  manner.  It  is  likewise  ne- 
cessary to  cut  the  leaves  off  a  fort- 
night or  three  weeks  before  they 
decay,  in  those  plants  which  are  in- 
tended to  be  forced  at  a  very  early 
period.  It  is  also  suggested  that 
the  blanching-pots  used  in  forcing 
should  be  made  in  two  pieces,  the 
uppermost  of  which  should  fit  like 
a  cap  upon  the  lower ;  as  the  crop 
might  then  be  examined  at  all  times 
without  disturbing  the  hot  dung. 
Sea-kale  is  cooked,  and  sent  to  the 
table  in  the  same  manner  as  aspa- 
ragus. 

SEA  SICKNESS.  This  disorder 
may  in  a  great  measure  be  prevent- 
ed, by  taking  a  few  drops  of  vitriolic 
aether  on  a  bit  of  sugar  dissolved  in 
the  mouth,  or  drinking  a  few  drops 
of  aether  in  water,  with  a  little  su- 
gar. 

SEA  WATER.  To  render  salt 
water  fit  for  washing  linen  at  sea, 
a  quantity  of  soda  should  be  kept  at 
hand,  and  used  for  that  purpose,  as 
often  as  occasion  requires.  As  much 
soda  should  be  put  into  sea  water 
as  will  render  it  turbid,  and  com- 
pletely precipitate  the  lime  and  mag- 
nesia which  it  contains.  The  water 
will  then  become  sufficiently  alka- 
line for  the  purpose  of  washing. 

SHAVING  SOAP.  Cut  half  a 
pound  of  fine  white  soap  in  thin 
310 


slices,  add  half  an  ounce  of  salt  ot 
tartar,  and  mix  them  with  full  half 
a  pint  of  spirits  of  wine.  Put  the 
ingredients  into  a  quart  bottle,  tie 
it  down  with  a  bladder,  digest  it  in 
a  gentle  heat  till  the  soap  is  dis- 
solved, and  let  the  air  escape  through 
a  pinhole  in  the  bladder.  Filter  the 
mixture  through  paper,  and  scent  it 
with  a  little  bergamot,  or  essence  of 
lemon.  It  will  have  the  appearance 
of  fine  oil.  A  small  quantity  mixed 
with  water  will  produce  an  excellent 
lather,  and  is  much  superior  to  any 
other  composition  in  washing  or 
shaving. 

SEALING  OF  LETTERS.  To 
secure  letters  from  being  opened, 
beat  up  some  fine  bean  flour  with 
the  white  of  an  egg,  and  make  it  in- 
to a  paste.  Use  a  little  of  it  in  the 
form  of  a  wafer,  close  the  letters 
with  it,  and  hold  the  sealed  part 
to  the  spout  of  a  tea-pot  of  boiling 
water.  The  steam  will  harden  the 
cement  so  that  the  letter  cannot  be 
opened  without  tearing,  and  will  ren- 
der it  more  secure  than  cither  wax 
or  wafer. 

SEASONING.  Though  general 
rules  may  be  given  for  stuffings  and 
seasoning,  yet  much  must  be  left 
to  common  discretion.  The  differ- 
ent tastes  of  people  require  more  or 
less  of  the  flavour  of  spices,  salt, 
garlic,  butter,  and  other  ingredients ; 
and  the  proportions  must  of  course 
be  regulated  accordingly,  taking 
care  that  a  variety  of  flavour  be 
given  to  the  different  dishes  served 
at  the  same  time.  The  proper  ar- 
ticles should  be  kept  ready  for  use ; 
but  if  suet  or  bacon  be  not  at  hand, 
butter  must  be  used  instead,  and 
fish  gravy  instead  of  stock  or  meat 
gravy.  More  depends  on  judgment 
and  care  than  on  the  ingredients 
merely,  of  which  the  dish  is  com- 
posed. 

SEASONING  MAHOGANY. 
Having  provided  a  steam-tight 
wooden  box,  capable  of  holding  sucii 
pieces  of  mahogany  as  are  wanted 


SEE 


SEE 


for  chairs  or  other  purposes,  a  pipe 
from  a  boiler  must  be  adapted  to  it, 
by  means  of  which  the  box  is  to  be 
filled  with  steam,  to  a  temperature 
about  equal  to  that  of  boiling  wa- 
ter. The  time  required  for  wood 
an  inch  and  a  half  thick,  is  about 
two  hours  ;  and  pieces  of  this  thick- 
ness become  sufficiently  dry  to 
work,  after  being  placed  in  a  warm 
room  for  twenty-four  hours.  By 
this  treatment  the  wood  is  some- 
thing improved  in  colour,  and  the 
blemishes  of  green  veins  are  entirely 
removed.  The  eggs  also  of  any  in- 
sect contained  in  the  wood,  will  be 
destroyed  by  the  heat  of  the  steam. 
By  this  process,  two  important  ad- 
vantages are  gained.  There  is  a 
saving  of  capital,  vested  in  wood 
lying  to  season  during  several 
months ;  and  the  warping  of  small 
pieces  of  wood  is  entirely  prevented. 
SEED  CAKE.  Mix  a  quarter  of 
a  peck  of  flour  with  half  a  pound  of 
sugar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  all- 
spice, and  a  little  ginger.  Melt 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
with  half  a  pint  of  milk;  when  just 
warm,  put  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  yeast,  and  work  it  up  to  a  good 
dough.  Add  seeds  or  currants,  let 
it  stand  before  the  fire  a  few  minutes 
before  it  goes  to  the  oven,  and  bake 
it  an  hour  and  a  half. — Another 
way  is  to  mix  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
flour,  a  pound  of  lump  sugar,  eight 
eggs  beaten  separately,  an  ounce  of 
seeds,  two  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and 
the  same  of  milk  and  water.  Milk 
alone  soon  causes  cake  and  bread 
to  get  dry. — Another.  Break  eigh- 
I  teen  eggs  into  a  large  pan,  and  leave 
f  out  eight  of  the  whites  ;  add  to  them 
t  two  pounds  of  fresh  butter,  and  with 
your  hand  work  the  butter  and  eggs 
till  they  are  well  mixed,  and  like 
thick  barme  ;  put  in  two  or  three 
spoonfuls  of  sack,  two  pounds  of 
lump  sugar  sifted,  two  pounds  of 
fine  flour,  and  two  ounces  of  carra- 
way  seeds,  mix  the  sugar,  flour,  and 


seeds,  well  together,  and  set  it  be- 
fore the  fire  for  half  an  hour,  cover- 
ing it  with  a  cloth,  and  *emember  to 
put  the  flour,  &c.  in  by  degrees. 
Tin  pudding  pans  are  the  best  things 
to  bake  it  in,  and  take  care  it  be 
not  over-done ;  they  will  rise  very 
high  in  the  oven,  and  when  they 
begin  to  sink  again,  they  are  baked 
enough. — A  cheap  seed  cake.  Take 
half  a  peck  of  flour,  set  a  pint  of 
milk  on  the  fire,  and  break  in  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  butter;  when 
all  the  butter  is  melted,  stir  in  half 
a  pint  of  ale  yeast  that  is  not  bitter. 
Take  half  an  ounce  of  allspice  beat 
fine,  and  a  pound  of  sugar  sifted  ; 
mix  these  with  the  flour  first,  then 
make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the 
flour,  and  pour  in  the  butter,  milk, 
and  yeast.  While  you  are  working 
it,  strew  in  some  carraway  seeds, 
and  set  it  before  the  fire  to  rise ; 
bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  quick 
oven.  It  is  best  baked  in  two  cakes  ; 
if  you  make  it  in  two,  put  currants 
in  one,  and  carraway  seeds  in  the 
other. — Seed  cake  the  nun's  way. 
To  four  pounds  of  the  finest  flour, 
add  three  pounds  of  double-refined 
sugar  beat  and  sifted  ;  mix  this  with 
the  flour,  and  set  it  before  the  fire 
to  dry  ;  beat  up  four  pounds  of  nice 
fresh  butter  to  a  cream,  break  three 
dozen  of  eggs  (leaving  out  sixteen 
whites)  and  beat  them  up  very  well, 
with  a  tea-cupful  of  orange-flower 
water,  strain  them  into  the  butter, 
and  beat  them  well  therewith  ;  take 
the  flour  and  sugar,  and  mix  in  six 
ounces  of  carraway  seeds;  put  these 
ingredients  to  the  butter  and  eggs 
by  degrees,  and  beating  all  conti- 
nually for  two  hours :  butter  a  hoop, 
and  bake  it  three  hours  in  a  mo- 
derate oven.  If  you  please,  you 
may  add  two  or  three  grains  of  am- 
bergris. 

SEED  WATER.  Bruise  a  spoon- 
ful of  coriander  seeds,  and  half  a 
spoonful  of  carraway.    Boil  them  in 
a  pint  of  water,  strain  them,  beat 
349 


SEV 


SH  A 


up  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  mix  with 
the  water,  add  a  little  sweet  wine 
and  lump  sugar. 

SEEDS.  To  discover  when  seeds 
of  any  kind  are  fully  ripe  and  good, 
throw  them  into  a  basin  of  water. 
If  not  sufHciently  ripe,  they  will 
swim  on  the  surface  ;  but  when  ar- 
rived at  full  maturity,  they  will  be 
found  uniformly  to  sink  to  the  bot- 
tom; a  fact  that  is  said  to  hold 
equally  true  of  all  seeds,  from  the 
cocoa  nut  to  the  orchis. — Seeds  of 
plants  may  be  preserved,  for  many 
months  at  least,  by  causing  them 
to  be  packed,  either  in  husks,  pods, 
&c.  in  absorbent  paper,  with  raisins 
or  brown  moist  sugar ;  or  a  good 
way,  practised  by  gardeners,  is  to 
wrap  the  seed  in  brown  paper  or 
cartridge  paper,  pasted  down,  and 
then  varnished  over. — To  preserve 
seeds,  when  sown,  from  vermin. 
Steep  the  grain  or  seed  three  or  four 
hours,  or  a  sufficient  time  for  it  to 
penetrate  the  skin,  or  husk,  in  a 
strong  solution  of  liver  of  sulphur. 

SHADS.  They  must  be  scaled 
very  clean,  then  gut  and  wash  them, 
dry  them  in  a  cloth,  score  them  on 
the  sides,  rub  them  with  butter, 
sprinkle  salt  over  theip,  and  broil 
them  of  a  fine  brown  ;  boil  sorrel, 
chervil,  onion  and  parsley,  chop  it 
fine  ;  melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  cream 
sufficient  for  your  sauce,  then  put 
in  your  herbs,  season  it  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  little  nutmeg,  toss  it 
up  together,  and  pour  over  your 
fish  ;  or  you  may  serve  it  with  a 
ragout  of  mushrooms,  or  a  brown 
sauce  with  capers,  garnished  with 
lemon. 

SEVILLE  ORANGE  POSSET. 
Squeeze  Seville  orange  or  lemon 
juice  into  a  glass  dish,  or  mix  them 
together  if  preferred,  and  sweeten  it 
well  with  fine  sugar.  Then  warm 
some  cream  over  the  fire,  but  do 
not  let  it  boil.  Put  it  into  a  teapot 
and  pour  it  into  the  juice,  holding 
the  teapot  up  very  high,  that  it  may 
350 


froth  and  curdle  the  better.  Instead 
of  cream,  milk  thickened  with  one 
or  two  yolks  of  eggs  may  be  used, 
if  more  convenient. 

SHALOT.  As  the  habits  of 
growth  in  roots  of  this  nature  differ 
greatly  in  the  different  sorts,  some 
requiring  to  be  nearly  or  quite  on 
the  surface  of  the  ground,  while 
others  stand  in  need  of  being  a  con- 
siderable depth  below  it,  which  has 
not  been  well  attended  to  in  the  gar- 
den culture  of  such  roots  ;  it  may 
be  readily  supposed  that  these  have 
considerable  influence  and  effect  on 
the  growth  of  such  root  crops.  In 
consequence  of  finding  that  crops 
of  this  root  generally  became  mouldy 
and  perished,  and  that  they  were 
usually  planted,  from  the  directions 
of  garden  cultivators,  at  the  depth 
of  two  or  three  inches  from  the  sur- 
face ;  the  injury,  failure,  and  de- 
struction of  such  crops,  were  natu- 
rally ascribed  to  this  cause.  A  few 
bulbs  or  bunches  of  this  root  were 
consequently  divided,  as  far  as  pos- 
sible, into  single  buds  or  bulbs,  and 
planted  upon  or  rather  above  the 
surface  of  the  ground,  some  very 
rich  soil  being  placed  underneath 
them,  and  the  mould  on  each  side 
raised  to  support  them,  until  they 
became  firmly  rooted.  This  mould 
was  then  removed  by  means  of  a 
hoe,  and  the  use  of  the  watering-pot, 
and  the  bulbs  of  course  left  wholly 
out  of  the  ground.  The  growth  of 
the  plants  had  now  so  near  a  resem- 
blance to  that  of  the  common  onion, 
as  not  readily  to  be  distinguished 
from  it,  until  their  irregularity  of 
form,  the  consequence  of  the  nu- 
merous germs  within  each  bulb,  be- 
came evident.  The  forms  of  the 
bulbs,  however,  continued  constant- 
ly different  from  all  those  raised  in 
the  ordinary  method,  being  much 
more  broad,  but  of  less  length.  The 
crop  was  a  great  deal  better  in  qua- 
lity, and  at  the  same  time  much  more 
abundant  in  quantity.     It  may  coH' 


I 


SHA 


SHE 


Sequently  not  be  unworthy  of  the 
gardener's  attention. — Garlic,  ro- 
cambole, and  shalot  are  chiefly  used 
in  ragouts  and  sauces  which  require 
to  be  highly  flavoured,  unless  a  sepa- 
rate sauce  is  made  of  them  only  ; 
and  indeed,  the  mixing  of  animal 
juices  in  preparations  of  vegetables 
is  by  no  means  to  be  recommended, 
where  the  health  is  to  be  consulted. 
The  substitution  of  butter  and  flour, 
yolks  of  eggs  and  cream,  mushroom 
or  walnut  ketchup,  is  greatly  to  be 
preferred  to  rich  gravies,  in  dressing 
of  vegetables. 

SHALOT  SAUCE.  Put  a  few 
chopped  shalots  into  a  little  gravy 
boiled  clear,  and  nearly  half  as 
much  vinegar.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  boil  it  half  an  hour. 

SHALOT  VINEGAR.  Split  six 
or  eight  shalots ;  put  them  into  a 
wide-mouthed  quart  bottle,  and  fill 
it  up  with  vinegar.  Stop  it  close  ; 
and  in  a  month  the  vinegar  will  be  fit 
for  use. 

SHALOT  WINE.  Peel,  mince, 
and  pound  in  a  mortar,  three  ounces 
of  shalots,  and  infuse  them  in  a 
pint  of  sherry  for  ten  days.  Pour 
ofl^  the  clear  liquor  on  three  ounces 
more  of  shalots,  and  let  the  wine 
stand  on  them  ten  days  longer.  An 
ounce  of  scraped  horseradish  may 
be  added  to  the  above,  and  a  little, 
lemon  peel  cut  thin.  This  is  rather 
the  most  expensive,  but  by  far  the 
most  elegant  preparation  of  shalot. 
It  imparts  the  onion  flavour  to  soups 
and  sauces,  for  chops,  steaks,  hash- 
es, or  boiled  meats,  more  agreeably 
than  any  other,  without  leaving  any 
unpleasant  taste  in  the  mouth. 

SHANK  JELLY.  Boil  fifteen 
shanks  of  mutton  in  three  quarts  of 
water.  Two  cow  heiels,  three  calf's 
feet,  or  five  sheep's  feet,  will  an- 
swer the  same  purpose.  Let  them 
Hi  stew  no  longer  than  to  extract  a  good 
jelly,  and  when  cold  take  off"  the  fat, 
and  clear  it  from  the  settlement  at 
the  bottom.  The  jelly  may  be  clear- 
ed with  whites  of  eggs,  and  running 


it  through  a  jelly  bag.  Orange  or 
lemon  juice,  or  wine,  and  sugar,  may 
be  added,  as  is  suitable  for  the  pa- 
tient. Wine  however  should  never 
be  given  to  any  invalid,  without  the 
express  permission  of  the  medical 
attendant,  as  it  may  do  more  harm 
than  good,  unless  used  with  great 
discretion.  Much  less  should  any 
kind  of  spirits  be  allowed,  as  they 
are  of  a  much  more  dangerous  na- 
ture than  wine  in  such  cases. 

SHARP  SAUCE.  Put  into  a  sil- 
ver saucepan,  or  one  that  is  very 
clean  and  well  tinned,  half  a  pint  of 
the  best  white  wine  vinegar,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  pounded  loaf 
sugar.  Simmer  it  gently  over  the 
fire,  skim  it  well,  pour  it  through  a 
tammis  or  fine  sieve,  and  send  it  up 
in  a  basin.  This  sauce  is  adapted 
for  venison,  and  is  often  preferred 
to  the  sweet  wine  sauces. 

SHEEP'S  EARS.  Take  a  dozen 
and  a  half  of  sheep's  ears,  scald 
and  clean  them  very  well ;  then  make 
a  forcemeat  of  veal,  suet,  crumbs  of 
bread,  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt, 
and  beaten  mace,  parsley  and  thyme 
shred  fine ;  mix  these  ingredients 
with  the  yolk  of  an  eg^ ;  fill  the 
ears,  and  lay  one  over  the  other, 
press  them  close,  flour  them,  and 
fry  them  in  clean  beef  dripping,  of 
a  fine  brown ;  serve  them  up  with 
gravy  sauce  in  the  dish,  garnished 
with  lemon.  This  is  a  pretty  side 
dish. 

SHELFORD  PUDDING.  Mix 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  cur- 
rants or  raisins,  one  pound  of  suet, 
a  pound  of  flour,  six  eggs,  some  good 
milk,  lemon  peel,  and  a  little  salt. 
Boil  it  in  a  melon  shape  six  hours. 

SHERBET.  This  liquor  is  a  spe- 
cies of  negus  without  the  wine.  It 
consists  of  water,  lemon,  or  orange 
juice,  and  sugar,  in  which  are  dis- 
solved perfumed  cakes,  made  of  the 
best  Damascus  fruit,  and  contain- 
ing also  an  infusion  of  some  drops 
of  rose-water  :  another  kind  is  made 
of  violets,  honev,  juice  of  raisins,  &c. 
351 


SHO 


SHO 


ft  is  well  calculated  for  assuaging 
thirst,  as  the  acidity  is  agreeably 
blended  with  sweetness.  It  resem- 
bles, indeed,  those  fruits  which  we 
find  so  grateful  when  one  is  thirsty. 

SHIN  OF  BEEF.  A  shin  or  leg 
of  beef,  weighing  full  six  pounds, 
will  make  a  large  tureen  of  excellent 
soup.  Cut  half  a  pound  of  bacon 
into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  a  soup  kettle 
or  deep  stewpan,  and  place  the  meat 
on  this,  after  having  first  chopped 
the  bone  in  two  or  three  places.  Add 
two  carrots,  two  turnips,  a  head  of 
celery,  two  large  onions  with  two  or ' 
three  cloves  stuck  in  them,  a  dozen 
black  peppercorns,  the  same  of  Ja- 
maica pepper,  and  a  bundle  of  le- 
mon thyme,  winter  savoury,  and 
parsley.  Just  cover  the  meat  with 
cold  water,  boil  it  over  a  quick  fire, 
skim  it  well,  and  then  let  it  stew  very 
gently  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  four 
hours  till  it  is  quite  tender.  Take 
out  all  the  meat,  strain  off  the  soup, 
and  remove  the  fat  from  the  surface 
when  cold.  Cut  the  meat  into  small 
pieces,  and  put  them  into  the  soup, 
when  it  is  to  be  warmed  up  for  the 
table.  A  knuckle  of  veal  may  be 
dressed  in  the  same  way. 

SHINGLES.  This  disorder,  of 
the  same  nature  as  St.  Anthony's 
fire,  and  requiring  a  similar  mode 
of  treatment,  attacks  various  parts 
of  the  body,  but  chiefly  the  waist, 
around  which  it  appears  in  numer- 
ous pimples  of  a  livid  hue,  and  sel- 
dom attended  with  fever.  No  at- 
tempt should  be  made  to  repel  the 
eruption  ;  the  body  should  be  kept 
gently  open,  and  the  part  affected 
rubbed  with  a  little  warm  wheaten 
flour.  Then  linen  bags  of  oatmeal, 
camomile  flowers,  and  a  little  bruised 
camphor  may  also  be  applied,  which 
will  effectually  relieve  the  inflamma- 
tion. 

SHOE  BLACKING.      In   three 

pints  of  small  beer,  put  two  ounces 

of  ivory  black,  and  one  pennyworth 

of  brown  sugar.     As  soon  as  they 

352 


boil,  put  a  dessert-spoonful  of  «»weet 
oil,  and  then  boil  slowly  till  reduced 
to  a  quart.  Stir  it  up  with  a  stick 
every  time  it  is  used  ;  and  put  it  on 
the  shoe  with  a  brush  when  wanted. 
- — Another.  Two  ounces  of  ivory 
black ;  one  tea-spoonful  of  oil  of 
vitriol,  one  table-spoonful  of  sweet 
oil ;  and  two  ounces  of  brown  su- 
gar ;  roll  the  same  into  a  ball,  and 
to  dissolve  it  add  half  a  pint  of  vine- 
gar.— Another.  Take  ivory  black 
and  brown  sugar  candy,  of  each 
two  ounces  ;  of  sweet  oil  a  table- 
spoonful;  add  gradually  thereto 
a  pint  of  vinegar,  cold,  and  stir  the 
whole  till  gradually  incorporated. 
— Another.  To  one  pint  of  vinegar 
add  half  an  ounce  of  vitriolic  acid, 
half  an  ounce  of  copperas,  two 
ounces  of  sugar  candy,  and  two 
ounces  and  a  half  of  ivory  black : 
mix  the  whole  well  together. — Ano- 
ther. Sweet  oil,  half  an  ounce ; 
ivory  black  and  treacle,  of  each  half 
a  pound  ;  gum  arabic  half  an  ounce; 
vinegar,  three  pints  ;  boil  the  vine- 
gar, and  pour  it  hot  on  the  other  in- 
gredients.— Another.  Three  ounces 
of  ivory  black,  one  ounce  of  sugar 
candy,  one  ounce  of  oil  of  vitriol, 
one  ounce  of  spirits  of  salts,  one 
lemon,  one  table-spoonful  of  sweet 
oil,  and  one  pint  of  vinegar. — First 
mix  the  ivory  black  and  sweet  oil 
together,  then  the  lemon  and  sugar 
candy,  with  a  little  vinegar  to  qua- 
hfy  the  blacking,  then  add  your  ■ 
spirits  of  salts  and  vitriol,  and  mix 
them  all  well  together.  N.  B.  The 
last  ingredients  prevent  the  vitriol 
and  salts  from  injuring  the  leather, 
and  add  to  the  lustre  of  the  black- 
ing.— Another.  Ivory  black,  two 
ounces ;  brown  sugar,  one  oun.ce 
and  a  half ;  sweet  oil,  half  a  table- 
spoonful.  Mix  them  well,  and  then 
gradually  add  half  a  pint  of  small 
beer. — Another.  A  quarter  of  a  ^ 
pound  of  ivory  black,  a  quarter  of  ^ 
a  pound  of  moist  sugar,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  a  piece  of  tallow 
about  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and   a 


•i 


^  H  C 


SHO 


wuatt  jMece  of  g«ni  arable. — Make  a 
paste  of  the  flour,  and  while  hot  put 
in  tiie  tallow,  then  the  sugar,  and 
afterwards  mix  the  whole  well  toge- 
ther in  a  quart  of  water,  and  you 
will  have  a  beautiful  shining  black- 
ing. 

SHOES.  The  best  way  of  clean- 
ing shoes  in  the  winter  time  is  to 
scrape  off  the  dirt  with  the  back  of 
a  knife,  or  with  a  wooden  knife  made 
for  that  purpose,  while  the  shoes 
are  wet,  and  wipe  off  the  remainder 
with  a  wet  sponge,  or  piece  of  flan- 
nel. Set  them  to  dry  at  a  distance 
from  the  lire,  and  they  will  after- 
wards take  a  tine  poHsh.  This  will 
save  much  of  the  trouble  in  clean- 
ing, when  the  dirt  is  suffered  to  dry 
on  ;  and  by  applying  a  little  sweet 
oil  occasionally,  the  leather  will  be 
prevented  from  growing  hard.  To 
secure  the  soles  of  shoes  or  boots 
from  being  penetrated  with  rain  or 
snow,  melt  a  little  bees'  wax  and 
mutton  suet,  and  rub  it  slightly  over 
the  edges  of  the  sole  where  the 
stitches  are ;  this  will  be  suflicient 
to  repel  the  wet.  Occasionally  rub- 
bing the  soles  with  hot  tar,  and 
dusting  over  it  a  small  quantity  of 
iron  filings,  will  tend  to  fill  up  the 
pores  of  the  leather,  and  preserve 
the  feet  dry  and  warm  in  winter. 
The  practice  of  pouring  brandy  or 
spirits  into  shoes  or  boots,  with  a 
view  to  prevent  the  effects  of  wet  or 
cold,  is  very  pernicious,  and  often 
brings  on  inflammation  of  the  bowels. 
The  best  remedy  for  damp  feet  is 
to  bathe  them  in  warm  water ;  and 
if  they  become  sore  or  blistered, 
rub  them  with  a  little  mutton  suet. 
As  many  evils  and  inconveniences 
arise  from  wearing  improper  shoes, 
it  may  be  necessary  to  observe,  that 
an  easy  shoe,  adapted  to  the  size 
and  shape  of  the  foot,  is  of  consi- 
derable consequence.  The  soles 
should  be  thick,  and  their  extremi- 
ties round  rather  than  pointed,  in 
Older  to  protect  the  toes  from  being 
injui'ed  by  sharp  stones,  or  other 


rough  substaaces,  that  may  occUf 
in  walking.  Persons  wearing  nar- 
row or  fashionable  shoes,  merely  for 
the  sake  of  appearance,  not  only 
suffer  immediate  fatigue  and  languor 
when  walking  only  a  short  distance, 
but  are  exposed  to  the  pain  and  in- 
convenience of  warts  and  corns,  and 
numerous  other  maladies ;  while 
the  want  of  dry  easy  shoes  checks 
the  necessary  perspiration,  which 
extends  its  influence  to  other  parts 
of  the  body.  For  children,  a  kind 
of  half  boots,  such  as  may  be  laced 
above  the  ancles,  ^re  superior  to 
shoes,  as  they  not  only  have  the  ad- 
vantage of  fitting  the  leg,  but  are 
likewise  not  easily  trodden  down  at 
the  heels,  and  children  can  walk 
more  firmly  in  them  than  in  shoes. 

SHORT  BISCUITS.  Beat  half 
a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream,  then 
add  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar 
finely  powdered  and  sifted,  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  a  few  carra- 
ways.  Mix  in  a  pound  of  flour  well 
dried,  and  add  as  much  cream  as 
will  make  it  a  proper  stiffness  for 
rolling.  Roll  it  out  on  a  clean  board, 
and  cut  the  paste  into  cakes  with 
the  top  of  a  glass  or  cup.  Bake 
them  on  tins  for  about  half  an  hour. 
— Another  way.  A  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  beat  to  a  cream, 
six  ounces  of  fine  sugar  powdered 
and  sifted,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour,  a  little 
mace,  and  a  little  grated  lemon  peel. 
Make  them  into  a  paste,  roll  it  out, 
and  cut  it  into  cakes  with  the  top 
of  a  wine  glass.  Currants  or  carra- 
ways  may  be  added  if  agreeable. 

SHORT  CAKES.  Rub  into  a 
pound  of  dried  flour,  four  ounces  of 
butter,  four  ounces  of  powdered 
sugar,  one  egg,  and  a  spoonful  or 
two  of  thin  cream  to  make  it  in- 
to a  paste.  When  mixed,  put  cur- 
rants into  one  half,  and  carraways 
into  the  rest.  Cut  them  into  little 
cakes  with  the  top  of  a  wine  glass, 
or  canister  lid,  and  bake  them  a  few 
minutes  on  floured  tins. 

z  2  353 


SHO 


SH  O 


SHORT  CRUST,  Dry  two  ounces 
of  white  sugar;  after  it  has  been 
pounded  and  sifted.  Mix  if  with  a 
pound  of  flour  well  dried,  and  rub 
into  it  three  ounces  of  butter,  so 
line  as  not  to  be  seen.  Put  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  into 
some  cream,  mix  it  with  the  above 
into  a  smooth  paste,  roll  it  out  thin, 
and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven. — 
lAnother.  Mix  with  a  pound  of  line 
flour  dried,  an  ounce  of  sugar  pound- 
ed and  sifted.  Crumble  three  ounces 
of  butter  into  it,  till  it  looks  all  like 
flour ;  and  with  a  glass  of  boiling 
cream,  work  it  up  to  a  fine  paste. — 
To  make  a  richer  crust,  but  not 
sweet,  rub  six  ounces  of  butter  into 
eight  ounces  of  fine  flour.  Mix  it 
into  a  stiflish  paste,  with  as  little 
water  as  possible  ;  beat  it  well,  and 
roll  it  thin.  This,  as  well  as  the 
former,  is  proper  for  tarts  of  fresh 
or  preserved  fruit. — Another.  To  a 
pound  of  flour  allow  six  ounces  of 
butter,  and  a  little  salt.  Rub  the 
butter  well  into  the  flour  ,with  the 
hand,  till  the  whole  is  well  united, 
and  then  put  in  a  small  quantity  of 
cold  water,  just  enough  to  mix  it  to 
a  paste.  Mould  it  quite  smooth 
with  the  hand,  and  roll  it  out  for  use. 

SHORT  PASTE.  Rub  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  pound  of 
flour,  mixed  with  water  and  two 
eggs.  Work  it  up  to  a  good  stiflf- 
«ess,  and  roll  it  out.  If  for  sweet 
tarts,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar 
should  be  added. 

SHOULDER  OF  LAMB 
^FORCED.  Bone  a  shoulder  of 
Iamb,  and  fill  it  up  with  forcemeat ; 
braise  it  two  hours  over  a  slow  stove. 
Take  it  up  and  glaze  it,  or  it  may 
be  glazed  only,  and  not  braised. 
Serve  with  sorrel  sauce  under  the 
lamb. 

SHOULDER  OF  LAMB  GRILL- 
ED. Roast  a  shoulder  of  lamb  till 
about  three  parts  done,  score  it 
both  ways  into  squares  about  an 
inch  large,  rub  it  over  with  yolks 
of  egg,  season  it  with  pepper  and 
364 


salt,  and  strew  it  over  with  bread 
crumbs  and  chopped  parsley.  Set 
it  before  the  fire,  brown  it  with  a  sa- 
lamander, and  serve  it  up  with  gra- 
vy, mushroom  ketchup,  lemon  juice, 
and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Heat  it  over  the  fire  till  it  is  well 
thickened. 

SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON. 
If  intended  to  be  boiled  with  oysters, 
hang  it  up  some  days,  and  then  salt 
it  well  for  two  days.  Bone  it,  sprin- 
kle it  with  pepper,  and  a  little  pound- 
ed mace.  Lay  some  oysters  over  it, 
and  roll  the  meat  up  tight  and  tie 
it.  Stew  it  in  a  small  quantity  of 
water,  with  an  onion  and  a  few  pep- 
percorns, till  it  is  quite  tender. 
Prepare  a  little  good  gravy,  and 
some  oysters  stewed  in  it ;  thicken 
this  with  flour  and  butter,  and  pour 
it  over  the  mutton  when  the  tape  is 
taken  off".  The  stewpan  should  be 
kept  close  covered.  If  the  shoulder 
is  to  be  roasted,  serve  it  up  with 
onion  sauce.  The  blade-bone  may 
be  broiled. 

SHOULDER  OF  PORK.  A 
shoulder  or  a  breast  of  pork  is  best 
put  into  pickle.  Salt  the  shoulder 
as  a  leg  ;  and  when  very  nice  it  may 
be  roasted,  instead  of  being  boiled. 

SHOULDER  OF  VEAL.  Cut 
olF  the  knuckle  for  a  stew  or  gravy, 
and  roast  the  other  part  with  stuff- 
ing. It  may  be  larded,  and  served 
with  melted  butter.  The  blade- 
bone,  with  a  good  deal  of  meat  left 
on  it,  eats  extremely  well  with  mush- 
room or  oyster  sauce,  or  with  mush- 
room ketchup  in  butter. 

SHOULDER  OF  VENISON.  The 
neck  and  shoulder  are  roasted  the 
same  as  the  haunch,  and  served  with 
the  same  sauce.  But  if  the  shoulder 
is  to  be  stewed,  take  out  the  bone, 
and  beat  the  meat  with  a  rolling- 
pin.  Lay  amongst  it  some  slices  of 
mutton  fat,  that  have  lain  a  few 
hours  in  a  little  port  wine  ;  sprinkle 
a  little  pepper  and  allspice  over  it 
in  fine  powder,  roll  and  tie  it  up 
tight.     Set  it  in  a  stewpan  that  will 


S  IC 


just  hold  it,  with  mutton  or  beef 
gravy,  half  a  pint  of  port  wine,  with 
pepper  and  allspice.  Simmer  it 
close  covered,  and  very  slowly,  for 
three  or  four  hours.  When  quite 
tender,  take  off  the  tape,  set  the 
meat  on  a  dish,  and  strain  the  gra- 
vy over  it.  Serve  with  currant-jelly 
sauce.  This  is  the  best  way  of 
dressing  a  shoulder  of  venison,  un- 
less it  be  very  fat,  and  then  it  should 
be  roasted.  The  bone  should  be 
stewed  with  it. 

SHREWSBURY  CAKES.  ift 
one  pound  of  sugar,  some  pounded 
cinnamon,  and  nutmeg  grated,  into 
three  pounds  of  fine  flour.  Add  a 
little  rose  water  to  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  mix  with  the  flour;  then 
pour  into  it  as  much  melted  butter 
as  will  make  it  a  good  thickness  to 
roll  out.  Mould  it  well,  roll  it  thin, 
and  cut  it  into  anv  shape  you  please. 

SHRIMP  pie!!  Pick  a  quart  of 
shrimps  ;  if  they  be  very  salt,  sea- 
son them  only  with  mace  and  a  clove 
or  two.  Mince  two  or  three  an- 
chovies, mix  them  with  the  spice, 
and  then  season  the  shrimps.  Put 
some  butter  at  the  bottom  of  the 
dish,  and  over  the  shrimps,  with  a 
glass  of  sharp  white  wine.  The  pie 
will  not  take  long  in  baking,  and 
the  paste  must  be  light  and  thin. 

SHRIMP  SAUCE.  If  the  shrimps 
be  not  ready  picked  pour  over  a  lit- 
tle water  to  wash  them.  Put  them 
to  butter  melted  thick  and  smooth, 
give  them  one  boil,  and  add  the  juice 
of  a  lemon. 

SHRUB.  To  a  gallon  of  rum, 
put  a  quart  of  the  juice  of  Seville 
oranges,  and  two  pounds  and  a  half 
of  loaf  sugar  beaten  fine,  and  then 
barrel  it.  Steep  the  rinds  of  half 
a  dozen  oranges  in  a  little  rum,  the 
next  day  strain  it  into  the  vessel, 
and  make  it  up  ten  gallons  with  wa- 
ter that  has  been  boiled.  Stir  the 
liquor  twice  a  day  for  a  fortnight, 
or  the  shrub  will  be  spoiled. 

SICK  ROOMS.  To  purify  sick 
yooms  from  noxious  vapours,  exha- 


SIL 

lations,  and  all  kinds  of  infected  air, 
put  half  an  ounce  of  finely  pulverized 
black  oxide  of  manganese   into   a 
saucer,  and  pour  upon  it  nearly  an 
ounce  of  muriatic  acid.     Place  the 
saucer  on  the  floor  of  the  infected 
apartment,  leave  it  and  shut  the  door, 
and  the  contagion  will  be  completely 
destroyed.     Muriatic  acid  with  red 
oxide  of  lead  will  have  a  similar  ef- 
fect.    Sulphur  burnt  for  the  same 
purpose,  has  the  power  of  overcom- 
ing the  effects  of  noxious  vapours. 
Shallow  vessels  filled  with  lime  wa- 
ter are  of  great  use  in  absorbing  car- 
bonic acid  gas,  especially  in  work- 
shops   where     charcoal    is     burnt. 
Newly  prepared  charcoal  will  ab- 
sorb various  kinds  of  noxious  efflu- 
via, and  might  be  used  with  consi- 
derable advantage  for  the  purifica- 
tion of  privies,  if  small  pieces  of  it 
are  strewed  upon  the  floor.     Never 
venture  into  a  sick  room  if  you  are 
in  a  violent  perspiration  (if  circum- 
stances require    your    continuance 
there  for  any  time,)  for  the  moment 
your  body  becomes  cold,  it  is  in  a 
state  likely  to  absorb  the  infection, 
and  give  you  the  disease.    Nor  visit 
a  sick  person,  (especially  if  the  com- 
plaint be  of  a  contagious   nature) 
with  an  empty  stomach  ;  as  this  dis- 
poses the  system   more  readily  to 
receive  the  contagion.    In  attending 
a  sick  person,  place  yourself  where 
the  air  passes  from  the  door  or  win- 
dow to  the  bed  of  the  diseased,  not 
betwixt  the  diseased  person  and  any 
fire  that  is  in  the  room,  as  the  heat 
of  the  fire  will  draw  the  infectious 
vapour  in  that  direction,  and  you 
would  run  much  danger  from  breath- 
ing in  it. 

SILK  DYES.  Silk  is  usually 
dyed  red  with  cochineal,  or  car- 
thamus,  and  sometimes  with  Brazil 
wood.  Archil  is  employed  to  give 
silk  a  bloom,  but  it  is  seldom  used 
by  itself,  unless  when  the  colour 
wanted  is  lilac.  Silk  may  be  dyed 
crimson,  by  steeping  it  in  a  solution 
of  ali»«i,  and  then  dyeing  it  in  the 
355 


SIL 


SIL 


usual  way  in  a  cochineal  bath.  Pop- 
py colour,  cherry,  rose,  and  flesh 
colour,  are  given  to  silk  by  means 
of  carthamus.  The  process  con- 
sists merely  in  keeping  the  silk  as 
long  as  it  extracts  any  colour,  in  an 
alkaline  solution  of  carthamus,  into 
ivhich  as  much  lemon  juice  has  been 
poured,  as  is  sufficient  to  give  it  a 
iine  cherry  red  colour.  Silk  cannot 
be  dyed  a  full  scarlet ;  but  a  colour 
approaching  to  scarlet  may  be  given 
to  it,  by  first  impregnating  the  stuff 
with  murio- sulphate  of  tin,  and  after- 
wards dyeing  it  in  equal  parts  of 
cochineal  and  quercitron  bark. 

SILK  STOCKINGS.  To  clean 
silk  stockings  properly,  it  is  neces- 
sary first  to  wash  them  in  a  luke- 
warm liquor  of  white  soap,  then  to 
rinse  them  in  clean  water,  and  wash 
them  again  as  before.  They  are  to 
be  washed  a  third  time  in  a  stronger 
soap  liquor,  made  hot  and  tinged 
with  blueing,  and  rinsed  in  clean 
water.  Before  they  are  quite  dry, 
they  are  to  be  stoved  with  brim- 
stone, and  afterwards  polished  with 
glass  upon  a  Mooden  leg.  Gauzes 
are  whitened  in  the  same  manner, 
only  a  little  gum  is  put  in  the  soap 
liquor  before  they  are  stoved. 

SILKS  CLEANED.  The  best 
method  of  cleaning  silks,  woollens, 
and  cottons,  without  damage  to  their 
texture  and  colour,  is  to  grate  some 
raw  potatoes  to  a  fine  pulp  in  clean 
water,  and  pass  the  liquid  matter 
through  a  coarse  sieve  into  another 
vessel  of  water.  Let  the  mixture 
stand  till  the  fine  white  particles  of 
the  potatoes  are  precipitated  ;  then 
pour  off  the  liquor,  and  preserve  it 
for  use.  The  article  to  be  cleaned' 
should  then  be  laid  upon  a  linen 
cloth  on  a  table ;  and  having  pro- 
vided a  clean  sponge,  dip  it  into  the 
potatoe  liquor,  and  apply  it  to  the 
article  to  be  cleaned,  till  the  dirt 
is  made  to  disappear  ;  then  wash  it 
in  clean  water  several  times.  Two 
middle-sized  potatoes  will  be  suf- 
ficient for  a  pint  of  water.  The 
056 


coarse  pulp,  which  does  not  pass 
through  the  sieve,  is  of  great  use  in 
cleaning  worsted  curtains,  tapestry, 
carpets,  and  other  coarse  articles. 
The  mucilaginous  liquor  will  clean 
all  sorts  of  silk,  cotton  or  woollen 
goods,  without  hurting  or  spoiling 
the  colour.  It  may  also  be  used  in 
cleaning  oil  paintings,  or  furniture 
that  is  soiled.  Dirtied  painted 
wainscots  may  be  cleaned  by  wetting 
a  sponge  in  the  liquor,  then  dipping 
it  in  a  little  fine  clean  sand,  and  af- 
terwards rubbing  the  wainscot  with 
it. 

SILVERING.  For  silvering  glass 
globes,  and  such  kind  of  articles, 
one  part  of  mercury,  and  four  of  tin, 
are  generally  used.  But  if  two  parts 
of  mercury,  one  of  tin,  one  of  lead, 
and  one  of  bismuth,  are  melted  to- 
gether, the  compound  which  they 
form  will  answer  the  purpose  bet- 
ter. Either  of  them  must  be  made 
in  an  iron  ladle,  over  a  clear  fire, 
and  be  frequently  stirred.  The  glass 
to  be  silvered  must  be  very  clean  and 
dry.  The  alloy  is  poured  in  at  the 
top,  and  shaken  till  the  whole  in- 
ternal surface  is  covered. 

SILVERING  OF  IVORY.  Pre- 
pare a  diluted  solution  of  nitrate  of 
silver,  and  immerse  in  it  an  ivory 
paper  knife.  When  the  ivory  has 
become  yellow,  in  that  part  where 
it  is  in  contact  with  the  fluid,  take 
it  out  and  immerse  it  in  an  ale  glass 
containing  distilled  water,  placed  in 
a  window.  In  a  short  time,  by  ex- 
posure to  the  rays  of  the  sun,  it  will 
become  intensely  black.  Take  it 
out  of  the  water,  wipe  it  dry,  and 
rub  it  with  a  piece  of  leather.  The 
silver  will  now  appear  on  the  ivory 
in  a  metallic  state,  and  the  knife 
will  retain  its  silvery  coat  for  a  long 
time. 

SILVERING  ON  SILK.  Paint 
flowers  or  figures  of  any  kind  on  a 
white  silk  ribbon,  with  a  camel  hair 
pencil,  dipped  in  a  solution  of  ni- 
trate of  silver.  Immerse  this  whilst 
wet  in  ajar  of  sulphurous  acid  gas, 


SIM 


SIM 


by  burning  sulphur  under  a  jar  of 
atmospheric  air.  The  penciling  will 
then  assume  a  beautiful  metallic 
brilliance. 

SINAPISMS.  The  sinapism  is  a 
poultice  made  of  vinegar  instead  of 
milk,  and  rendered  warm  and  sti- 
mulating by  the  addition  of  mus- 
tard, horseradish,  or  garlic.  The 
common  sinapism  is  made  of  equal 
quantities  of  bread  crumbs  and  mus- 
tard, a  sufficient  quantity  of  strong 
vinegar,  and  mixing  all  together  into 
a  poultice.  When  a  sinapism  is 
required  to  be  more  stimulating,  a 
little  bruised  garlic  may  be  added. 
Sinapisms  are  employed  to  recal  the 
blood  and  spirits  to  a  weak  part, 
as  in  the  case  of  palsy ;  they  are 
also  of  service  in  deep-seated  pains, 
as  in  the  case  of  sciatica.  When  the 
gout  seizes  the  head  or  stomach, 
they  are  applied  to  the  feet  to  bring 
the  disorder  down,  and  are  likewise 
applied  to  the  soles  of  the  feet  in  a 
low  state  of  fever.  They  should 
not  be  suffered  to  lie  on  till  they 
have  raised  blisters,  but  till  the  parts 
become  red,  and  will  continue  so 
when  pressed  with  the  finger. 

SIPPETS.  When  the  stomach  is 
too  weak  to  receive  meat,  put  on  a 
very  hot  plate  two  or  three  sippets 
of  bread,  and  pour  over  them  some 
beef,  mutton,  or  veal  gravy.  Flavour 
with  a  little  salt. 

SIMPLE  WATERS.  The  most 
expeditious  method  of  distilling  wa- 
ters is  to  tie  a  piece  of  muslin  or 
gauze,  over  a  glazed  earthen  pot, 
whose  mouth  is  just  large  enough  to 
receive  the  bottom  of  a  warming 
pan  ;  on  this  lay  your  herb,  clipped, 
whether  mint,  lavender,  or  whatever 
else  you  please ;  then  place  upon 
them  the  hot  warming-pan,  with 
live  coals  in  it,  to  cause  heat  just 
enough  to  prevent  burning,  by  which 
means,  as  the  steam  issuing  out  of 
the  herb  cannot  mount  upwards,  by 
reason  of  the  bottom  of  the  pan  just 
fitting  the  brim  of  the  vessel  below 
it,  it  must  necessarily  descend,  and 


collect  into  water  at  the  bottom  of 
the  receiver,  and  that  strongly  im- 
pregnated with  the  essential  oil  and 
salt  of  the  vegetable  thus  distilled  ; 
which,  if  you  want  to  make  spiritu- 
ous, or  compound  water  of,  is  easily 
done,  by  simply  adding  some  good 
spirits,  or  French  brandy  to  it,  which 
will  keep  good  for  a  long  time,  and 
be  much  better  than  if  the  spirits 
had  passed  through  a  still,  which 
must  of  necessity  waste  some  of 
their  strength.  Care  should  be 
taken  not  to  let  the  fire  be  too  strong, 
lest  it  scorch  the  plants  ;  and  to  be 
made  of  charcoal,  for  continuance 
and  better  regulation,  which  must 
be  managed  by  lifting  up  and  laying 
down  the  lid,  as  you  want  to  in- 
crease or  decrease  the  degrees  of 
heat.  The  cooler  the  season,  the 
deeper  the  earthen  pan ;  and  the  less 
fire  at  first  (afterwards  to  be  gra- 
dually raised)  in  the  greater  perfec- 
tion will  the  distilled  water  be  ob- 
tained.— As  the  more  moveable,  or 
volatile  parts  of  vegetables,  are  the 
aqueous,  the  oily,  the  gummy,  the 
resinous,  and  the  sahne,  these  are 
to  be  expected  in  the  waters  of  this 
process  ;  the  heat  here  employed 
being  so  great  as  to  burst  the  ves- 
sels of  the  plants,  some  of  which 
contain  so  large  a  quantity  of  oil, 
that  it  may  be  seen  swimming  on 
the  surface  of  the  water. — Medical 
waters  thus  procured  will  afford  us 
nearly  all  the  native  virtues  of  ve- 
j^etables,  and  give  us  a  mixture  of 
their  several  principles,  whence  they  . 
in  a  manner  come  up  to  the  express- 
ed juice,  or  extract  gained  there- 
from :  and  if  brandy  be  at  the  same 
time  added  to  these  distilled  waters, 
so  strong  of  oil  and  salt,  a  com- 
pound, or  spirituous  water,  maj  be 
likewise  procured,  at  a  cheap  and 
easy  rate. — Although  a  small  quan- 
tity only  of  distilled  water  can  be 
obtained  at  a  time  by  this  confined 
operation,  yet  it  co.mpensates  in 
strength  what  is  deficient  in  quan- 
tity. Such  liquors,  if  well  corked 
•^67 


SKI 


SLA 


up  from  the  air,  will  keep  good  a 
long  time,  especially  if  about  a  twen- 
tieth part  of  any  spirits  be  added, 
in  order  to  preserve  the  same  more 
effectually. 

SIZE  FROM  POTATOES.  One 
of  the  beneficial  uses  of  potatoes, 
not  perhaps  generally  known,  is, 
that  the  starch  of  them,  quite  fresh, 
and  washed  only  once,  may  be  em- 
ployed to  make  size,  which,  mixed 
with  chalk,  and  diluted  in  a  little 
water,  forms  a  very  beautiful  and 
good  white  for  ceilings.  This  size 
has  no  smell,  while  animal  size, 
which  putrefies  so  readily,  always 
exhales  a  very  disagreeable  odour. 
That  of  potatoes,  as  it  is  very  little 
subject  to  putrefaction,  appears, 
from  experience,  to  be  more  durable 
in  tenacity  and  whiteness  ;  and,  for 
white-washing,  should  be  preferred 
to  animal  size,  the  decomposition  of 
which  is  always  accompanied  with 
unhealthy  exhalations. 

SKATE.  In  the  purchase  of  this 
article,  observe  that  it  be  very  white 
and  thick.  It  requires  to  be  hung 
up  one  day  at  least  before  it  is  dress- 
ed ;  if  too  fresh,  it  eats  tough. 
Skate  may  either  be  boiled,  or  fried 
in  crumbs,  being  first  dipped  in  egg. 
Crimp  skate  should  be  boiled  and 
sent  up  in  a  napkin,  or  it  may  be 
fried  as  above. 

SKATE  SOUP.  This  is  made  of 
the  stock  fish  for  soup,  with  an 
ounce  of  vermicelli  boiled  in  it,  a 
little  before  it  is  served.  Then  add 
half  a  pint  of  cream,  beaten  with 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Stir  it  by 
the  side  of  the  fire,  but  not  on  it. 
Serve  it  up  with  a  small  French  roll 
warmed  in  a  Dutch  oven,  and  then 
soaked  an  hour  in  the  soup. 

SKIRRETS.  Hamburgh  parsley, 
scorzonera,  and  skirrets,  are  much 
esteemed  for  their  roots,  the  only 
part  which  is  eaten.  They  should 
be  boiled  like  young  carrots,  and 
they  will  eat  very  well  with  meat, 
or  alone,  or  in  soups.  The  shoots 
of  salsify  in  the  spring,  from  the 
350 


roots  of  a  year  old,  gathered  green 
and  tender,  will  eat  very  nice,  if 
boiled  in  the  same  manner  as  aspa- 
ragus. 

SLATE,  a  well-known,  neat,  con- 
venient, and  durable  material,  for 
the  covering  of  the  roofs  of  build- 
ings. There  are  great  varieties  of 
this  substance  ;  and  it  likewise  dif- 
fers v^  greatly  in  its  qualities  and 
colours.  In  some  places  it  is  found 
in  thick  laminae,  or  flakes  ;  while  in 
others  it  is  thin  and  light.  The  co- 
lours are  white,  brown,  and  blue. 
It  is  so  durable,  in  some  cases,  as 
to  have  been  known  to  continue 
sound  and  good  for  centuries.  How- 
ever, unless  it  should  be  brought 
from  a  quarry  of  well  reputed  good- 
ness, it  is  necessary  to  try  its  pro- 
perties, which  may  be  done  by 
striking  the  slate  sharply  against  a 
large  stone,  and  if  it  produce  a  com- 
plete sound,  it  is  a  mark  of  good- 
ness ;  but  if  in  hewing  it  does  not 
shatter  before  the  edge  of  the  sect, 
or  instrument  commonly  used  for 
that  purpose,  the  criterion  is  de- 
cisive. The  goodness  of  slate  may 
be  farther  estimated  by  its  colour  : 
the  deep  black  hue  is  apt  to  imbibe 
moisture,  but  the  lighter  is  always 
the  least  penetrable  :  the  touch  also 
may  be  in  some  degree  a  guide,  for 
a  good  firm  stone  feels  somewhat 
hard  and  rough,  whereas  an  open 
slate  feels  very  smooth,  and  as  it 
were,  greasy.  And  another  method 
of  trying  the  goodness  of  slate,  is  to 
place  the  slate-stone  lengthwise  and 
perpendicularly  in  a  tub  of  water, 
about  half  a  foot  deep,  care  being 
taken  that  the  upper  or  unimmersed 
part  of  the  slate  be  not  accidentally 
wetted  by  the  hand,  or  otherwise ; 
let  it  remain  in  this  state  twenty- 
four  hours  ;  if  good  and  firm  stone, 
it  will  not  draw  water  more  than 
half  an  inch  above  the  surface  of  | 
the  water,  and  that  perhaps  at  the 
edges  only,  those  parts  having  been 
a  little  loosened  in  the  hewing  ;  but 
a  spongy  defective  stone  will  draw 


SLE 


SLl 


^ater  to  the  very  top.  There  is  still 
another  mode,  held  to  be  infallible. 
First,  weigh  two  or  three  of  the  most 
suspected  slates,  noting  the  weight ; 
then  immerge  them  in  a  vessel  of 
water  twelve  hours ;  take  them  out, 
and  wipe  them  as  clean  as  possible 
with  a  linen  cloth ;  and  if  they 
weigh  more  than  at  first,  it  denotes 
that  quality  of  slate  which  imbibes 
water  :  a  drachm  is  allowable  in  a 
dozen  pounds,  and  no  more.  It  may 
be  noticed,  that  in  laying  of  this 
material,  a  bushel  and  a  half  of  lime, 
and  three  bushels  of  fresh-water 
sand,  will  be  sufficient  for  a  square 
of  work  ;  but  if  it  be  pin  plastered, 
it  will  take  above  as  much  more : 
but  good  slate,  well  laid  and  plas- 
tered to  the  pin,  will  lie  an  hundred 
h'  years ;  and  on  good  timber  a  much 
longer  time.  It  has  been  common 
to  lay  the  slates  dry,  or  on  moss 
only,  but  they  are  much  better  when 
laid  with  plaster.  When  they  are 
to  be  plastered  to  the  pin,  then  about 
the  first  quantity  of  lime  and  sand 
will  be  sufficient  for  the  purpose, 
when  well  mixed  and  blended  toge- 
ther, by  properly  working  them. 
Slates  differ  very  much  in  thickness 
as  well  as  colour,  which  suits  them  for 
different  situations  and  purposes. 
A  great  deal  of  good  slate  of  va- 
rious kinds  is  raised  in  different 
parts  of  Wales,  and  much  excellent 
blue  and  other  coloured  sorts  is 
procured  from  the  northern  parts 
of  Lancashire,  and  other  neighbour- 
ing places,  as  well  as  from  different 
other  counties  throughout  the  king- 
dom. In  some  parts  the  slate  is  dis- 
tributed into  three  kinds,  as  the  best, 
the  middling,  and  the  waste  or  com- 
mon sort. 

SLEEP.  *  Tired  nature's  sweet 
restorer,  balmy  sleep,'  is  indispen- 
sible  to  the  continuance  of  health 
and  life  ;  and  the  night  is  appropri- 
ated for  the  recovery  of  that  strength 
which  is  expended  on  the  various 
exercises  of  the  day.  But  sleep,  as 
well  as  diet  and  exercise,  ought  to 


be  duly  regulated ;  for  too  little  of 
it,  as  well  as  too  much,  is  alike  in- 
jurious. A  medium  ought  therefore 
to  be  observed,  though  the  real  pro- 
portion cannot  be  ascertained  by 
any  given  time,  as  one  person  will 
be  more  refreshed  by  five  or  six 
hours  sleep,  than  another  by  eight 
or  ten.  Children  may  be  allowed 
to  take  as  much  as  they  please; 
but  for  adults,  six  hours  is  generally 
sufficient,  and  no  one  ought  to  ex- 
ceed eight.  To  make  sleep  refresh" 
ing,  it  is  necessary  to  take  sufficient 
exercise  in  the  open  air.  Too  much 
exertion  will  prevent  sleep,  as  well 
as  too  little  ;  yet  we  seldom  hear 
the  active  and  laborious  complain 
of  restless  nights,  for  they  generally 
enjoy  the  luxury  of  undisturbed  re- 
pose. Refreshing  sleep  is  often 
prevented  by  the  use  of  strong  tea, 
or  heavy  suppers  ;  and  the  stomach 
being  loaded,  occasions  frightful 
dreams,  and  broken  and  interrupted 
rest.  It  is  also  necessary  to  guard 
against  anxiety  and  corroding  grief: 
many  by  indulging  these,  have  ba- 
nished sleep  so  long  that  they  could 
never  afterwards  enjoy  it.  Sleep 
taken  in  the  forepart  of  the  night 
is  most  refreshing,  and  nothing  more 
effectually  undermines  and  ruins  the 
constitution  than  night  watching. 
How  quickly  the  want  of  rest  in  due 
season  will  destroy  the  most  bloom- 
ing complexion,  or  best  state  of 
health,  may  be  seen  in  the  ghastly 
countenances  of  those  who  turn  the 
day  into  night,  and  the  night  into 
day. 

SLICED  CUCUMBERS.  Cut 
some  cucumbers  into  thick  slices, 
drain  them  in  a  cullender,  and  add 
some  sliced  onions.  Use  some  strong 
vinegar,  and  pickle  them  in  the  same 
manner  as  gherkins  and  French 
o  p  3.  f  m  -^ 

SLICES  OF  BEEF.  To  prepare 
red  beef  for  slices,  cut  off  a  piece 
of  thin  flank,  and  remove  the  skin. 
Rub  the  beef  well  with  a  mixture 
made  of  two  pounds  of  common 
359 


SLi 


SLI 


salt^  two  ounces  of  bay  salt,  two 
ouQces  of  saltpetre,  and  half  a  pound 
of  moist  sugar,  pounded  together  in 
a  marble  mortar.  Put  it  into  an 
earthen  pan,  and  turn  and  rub  it 
daily  for  a  week.  Then  take  it  out 
of  the  brine  and  wipe  it,  strew  over 
it  pounded  mace,  cloves,  pepper, 
a  little  allspice,  plenty  of  chopped 
parsley,  and  a  few  shalots.  Roll  it 
up,  bind  it  round  with  tape,  boil  it 
quite  tender,  and  press  it.  When 
cold  cut  it  into  slices,  and  garnish 
it  with  pickled  barberries,  fresh 
parsley,  or  any  other  approved  ar- 
ticle. 

SLICES  OF  COD.  To  boil  slices 
of  codfish,  put  plenty  of  salt  into 
some  spring  water.  Boil  it  up  quick, 
and  then  put  in  the  fish.  Keep  it 
boiling,  and  skim  it  very  clean.  It 
will  be  done  sufficiently  in  eight  or 
ten  minutes.  Some  small  pieces  may 
be  fried  and  served  round  it.  Oys- 
ter, shrimp,  or  anchovy  sauce,  should 
be  served  with  it. 

SLICES  OF  HAM.  Bacon  or 
ham  njay  be  fried,  broiled  on  a  grid- 
iron over  a  clear  fire,  or  toasted  with 
a  fork.  The  slices  should  be  of  the 
same  thickness  in  every  part.  To 
have  it  curled,  the  slices  should  be 
cut  about  two  inches  long,  then  roll- 
ed up,  and  a  little  wooden  skewer 
passed  through  them.  Put  them  in- 
to a  cheese  toaster  or  Dutch  oven, 
for  eight  or  ten  minutes,  turning  the 
slices  as  they  crisp.  This  is  con- 
sidered the  handsomest  way  of 
dressing  rashers  of  bacon,  but  it  is 
best  uncurled,  because  it  is  crisper, 
and  more  equally  done.  Slices  of 
ham  or  bacon  should  not  be  more 
than  half  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
and  will  eat  much  more  mellow  if 
soaked  in  hot  water  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  and  then  dried  in  a  cloth, 
before  they  are  toasted. 

SLICES  OF  SALMON.  When 
washed,  wipe  the  salmon  quite  dry. 
Rub  the  slices  over  with  a  soft  brush 
dipped  in  sweet  oil,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  fold  them  neatly 
360 


in  clean  white  paper,  and  broil  them 
over  a  clear  fire. 

SLIGHT  WOUNDS.  When 
fresh  wounds  bleed  much,  lint  dip- 
ped in  vinegar  or  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine, may  be  pressed  upon  the  sur- 
face for  a  few  minutes,  and  retained 
by  a  moderately  tight  bandage  ;  but 
if  the  blood  spirts  out  violently,  it 
shows  that  an  artery  is  wounded, 
and  it  must  be  held  very  firmly  till 
a  surgeon  arrives.  But  when  the 
blood  seems  to  flow  equally  from 
every  part  of  the  wound,  and  there 
is  no  reason  therefore  to  suppose 
that  any  considerable  vessel  is 
wounded,  it  may  be  permitted  to 
bleed  while  the  dressings  are  pre- 
paring. The  edges  of  the  wound 
are  then  to  be  gently  pressed  toge- 
ther, and  retained  by  straps  of  stick- 
ing plaster.  These  may  remain  on 
for  three  or  four  days,  unless  the 
sore  becomes  painful,  or  the  matter 
smells  offensive,  in  which  case  the 
straps  of  plaster  must  be  taken  off, 
the  parts  washed  clean  with  warm 
water,  and  fresh  slips  of  plaster  ap- 
plied, nicely  adjusted  to  keep  the 
wound  closed.  The  slips  must  be 
laid  over  the  wound  crossways,  and 
reach  several  inches  beyond  each 
side  of  it,  in  order  to  hold  the  parts 
firmly  together.  By  keeping  the 
limb  or  part  very  still,  abstaining 
from  strong  liquors,  taking  only 
light  mild  food,  and  keeping  the 
bowels  open,  all  simple  wounds  may 
easily  be  healed  in  this  manner. 
But  poultices,  greasy  salves,  or  fill-, 
ing  the  wound  with  lint,  will  have 
an  opposite  effect.  Even  ragged  or 
torn  wounds  may  be  drawn  together 
and  healed  by  sticking  plaster,  with- 
out any  other  salves  or  medicines. 
A  broken  shin,  or  slight  ruffling  of 
the  skin,  may  be  covered  with  lint 
dipped  in  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and 
brandy,  and  left  to  stick  on,  unless 
the  place  inflames  ;  and  then  weak 
goulard  is  the  best  remedy.  Com- 
mon cuts  may  be  kept  together  by 
sticking  plaster,  or  with  only  a  piece 


SLU 


SLU 


of  tine  linen  rag,  or  thread  bound 
round  them.  The  rag  applied  next 
to  a  cut  or  wound  of  any  kind,  should 
always  be  of  white  linen ;  but  ca- 
lico, or  coloured  rags,  will  do  quite 
as  well  for  outward  bandages.  Im- 
portant wounds  should  always  be 
committed  to  the  care  of  a  skilful 
surgeon. 

SLUGS.  These  reptiles  do  great 
damage  in  fields  and  gardens,  espe- 
cially to  crops  of  lettuces,  cabbages, 
or  turnips.  Their  track  is  perceived 
by  the  shining  and  slimy  substance 
which  they  leave  behind  them. 
There  are  several  kinds  of  these  lit- 
tle animals.  The  white  and  brown 
leathery  kind  often  even  destroy  the 
strong  stems  of  young  cabbage,  and 
other  similar  plants.  The  destruc- 
tion of  them  has  been  suggested  to 
be  effected  by  the  use  of  tar-water, 
sprinkled  over  the  ground  ;  and  also 
by  having  recourse  to  lime,  in  the 
preparation  of  the  land  for  such 
crops.  They  conceal  themselves  in 
the  holes  and  crevices,  only  making 
their  appearance  early  in  mornings 
and  late  in  the  evenings.  The  white 
slug  or  snail  is  likewise  ver^  destruc- 
tive to  young  turnip  crops,  by  rising 
out  of  the  holes  of  the  soils,  on  wet 
and  dewy  mornings  and  evenings. 
Rolling  the  ground  with  a  heavy 
implement,  before  the  sun  rises,  has 
been  advised  as  a  means  of  destroy- 
ing them  in  these  cases.  Slugs  ot 
this  sort  are  likewise  very  destruc- 
tive, in  some  districts,  to  the  roots 
of  corn  crops,  during  the  day-time, 
in  the  early  spring  months,  while 
they  lie  concealed  in  the  ground,  by 
eating  and  devouring  them  ;  and  by 
coming  out  in  the  evenings,  and 
during  the  night-time,  to  commit 
ravages  on  the  blades,  and  other 
parts  above  the  ground.  Numbers 
of  them  are  sometimes  met  with  up- 
on the  same  plant,  and  they  may 
easily  be  extirpated  and  removed 
from  the  land  by  the  above  practice, 
while  they  are  at  work,  especially 
in  moon-light  seasons,  and  any  fur- 
^No.  16.)   . 


ther  injury  to  the  crops  be  guarded 
against.  Warm  moist  weather  is 
always  a  great  encouragement  to 
their  coming  out  of  their  hiding- 
places  ;  and  advantage  should  con- 
stantly be  taken  of  it  for  their  exter- 
mination, as  they  suddenly  retire 
under  ground  during  the  time  of 
cold.  The  strong  lands  of  other 
places  are  occasionally  much  in- 
fested with  t«hem  in  the  pea,  bean, 
and  rye  crops  and  stubbles,  as  well 
as  clover  roots,  when  a  wheat  crop 
is  put  in  upon  them.  The  slugs,  in  v 
some  cases,  are  of  about  half  an 
inch  in  length,  having  their  backs 
of  a  blueish  cast  in  the  skin  part, 
and  their  under  parts  wholly  of  a 
white  appearance.  A  mixture  of 
sulphur  and  lime,  made  so  as  to  be 
conveniently  applied,  has  been  found 
to  be  highly  destructive  of  them  in 
general. — The  use  of  lime-water  has 
lately  been  advised  as  an  excellent 
and  cheap  mode  of  destroying  slugs 
in  gardens,  as  well  as  fields,  in  the 
second  volume  of  the  Transactions 
of  the  Horticultural  Society  of  Lon- 
don. It  is  found  to  be  far  prefer- 
able, in  this  intention,  to  quick-  ^j^ 
lime,  which  is  liable  to  become  too 
soon  saturated  with  moisture,  and 
rendered  ineffectual.  The  manner 
of  employing  the  water  is  after  it 
has  been  newly  made  from  stone 
lime,  by  means  of  hot  water  poured 
upon  it,  to  pour  it  through  the  fine 
rose  of  a  watering-pot  over  the 
slugs,  which  have  been  collected  by 
means  of  pea-haulm,  or  some  other 
similar  substance,  laid  down  on  the 
ground  in  portions,  at  the  distance 
of  about  a  pole  from  each  other. 
In  proper  weather,  the  slugs  soon 
collect  in  this  way,  in  great  numbers, 
for  shelter  as  well  as  to  get  food.  . 
When  a  boy  takes  up  the  substance, 
and  by  a  gentle  shake  leaves  the 
whole  of  the  slugs  on  the  ground, 
another  person  then  pours  a  small 
quantity  of  lime-water  on  them,  and 
the  boy  removes  the  haulmy  ma- 
terial to  some  intermediate  place, 
3  A  _  361 


.^  iVI  A 


.^  iVI  A 


in  order  that  the  same  practice  may 
be  repeated.  By  persevering  in  this 
method  for  a  little  while,  the  whole 
of  the  slugs  may  he  destroyed,  as 
the  least  drop  of  the  water  speedily 
kills  them.  This  practice,  it  is  sup- 
posed, will  be  found  highly  bene- 
ficial in  the  flower-garden,  as  by 
watering  the  edgings  of  box,  thrift, 
or  other  kinds,  the  slugs  will  be  kill- 
ed with  certainty,  even  when  the 
weather  is  moist.  The  application 
is  considered  simple,  the  effect  cer- 
tain, and  the  expence  trifling,  whe- 
ther in  the  garden  or  the  field  ;  a 
few  pots  only  being  required,  in  the 
latter  case,  to  the  acre,  which  can 
be  made  with  a  very  small  quantity 
of  lime.  And  the  labour  is  not  of 
any  material  consequence,  so  that 
the  whole  charge  will  not,  it  is  ima- 
gined, exceed  five  shillings  the  acre. 
— To  prevent  slugs  from  getting  in- 
to fruit  trees.  If  the  trees  are  stand- 
ards, tie  a  coarse  horse-hair  rope 
about  them,  two  or  three  feet  from 
the  ground.  If  they  are  against  the 
wall,  nail  a  narrow  slip  of  coarse 
horse-hair  cloth  against  the  wall, 
about  half  a  foot  from  the  ground, 
and  they  will  never  get  over  it,  for 
if  they  attempt  it,  it  will  kill  them, 
as  their  bellies  are  soft,  and  the 
horse-hair  will  wound  them. 

SMALL  COAL.  There  is  ge- 
nerally a  great  waste  in  the  articl  • 
of  coal,  owing  to  the  quantity  of 
dust  found  amongst  it ;  but  this  if 
wetted  makes  the  strongest  fire  for 
the  back  of  the  grate,  where  it  shou  Id 
remain  untouched  till  it  is  formed 
into  a  cake.  Cinders  lightly  wetted 
give  a  great  degree  of  heat,  and  are 
better  than  coal  for  furnaces,  iron- 
ing stoves,  and  ovens.  They  should 
be  carefully  preserved  and  sifted  in 
a  covered  tin  bucket,  which  prevents 
the  dispersion  of  the  dust. 

SMALL  POX.  Previous  to  the 
appearance  of  the  eruption,  the  pa- 
tient should  be  kept  in  a  cool  dry 
apartment,  and  abstain  from  all 
animal  food,  cheese,  and  pastrv. 
362  • 


The  diet  should  consist  of  cooling 
vegetables,  ripe  fruit,  pearl  barley, 
and  sago.  The  drink  may  be  bar- 
ley water,  with  a  few  drops  of  vine- 
gar or  cream  of  tartar,  or  lukewarm 
milk  and  water  ;  but  neither  beer 
nor  wine  must  be  allowed.  In  case 
of  an  obstruction  of  the  bowels, 
mild  laxatives  or  clysters  may  be 
given  ;  and  if  the  throat  be  affected, 
it  should  be  gargled  with  vinegar 
and  water.  Warm  fomentations 
should  be  applied  to  the  neck,  and 
mustard  poultices  to  the  feet.  After 
the  eruption  has  made  its  appear- 
ance, the  recovery  of  the  patient 
may  be  chiefly  entrusted  to  nature, 
while  proper  attention  is  paid  to 
diet  and  regimen.  But  if  the  pus- 
tules begin  to  disappear,  blisters 
ought  to  be  immediately  applied  to 
the  calves  of  the  legs,  and  parsley- 
root  boiled  in  milk  should  frequently 
be  eaten,  in  order  to  encourage  the 
eruption.  When  the  pustules  sud- 
denly sink  in,  it  denotes  danger,  and 
medical  assistance  should  speedily 
be  procured.  In  case  of  inoculation, 
which  introduces  the  disease  in  a 
milder  form,  and  has  been  the  means 
of  saving  the  lives  of  many  thou- 
sands, a  similar  mode  of  treatment 
is  required.  For  about  a  week  or 
ten  days  previous  to  inoculation,  the  , 
patient  should  adhere  to  a  regular 
diet ;  avoiding  all  animal  food,  sea- 
soned dishes,  wine  and  spirits,  and 
should  live  sparingly  on  fruit  pies, 
puddings,  and  vegetables.  The  same 
regimen  must  be  observed  as  in  the 
former  instance,  during  the  progress  ! 
of  the  disease,  and  then,  but  little 
medicine  will  be  required. 

SMALL  RICE  PUDDINGS. 
Wash  two  large  spoonfuls  of  rice,  ' 
and  simmer  it  with  half  a  pint  of 
milk  till  it  is  thick.  Put  in  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and 
nearly  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream, 
and  give  it  one  boil.  When  cold, 
mix  four  yolks  and  two  whites  of 
eggs  well  beaten,  sugar  and  nutmeg 
to  taste.     Add  grated  lemon,  and  a 


SMO 


SMO 


little  cinnamon.  Butter  some  small 
cups,  and  fill  them  three  parts  full, 
putting  at  bottom  some  orange  or 
citron.  Bake  them  three  quarters 
of  an  hour  in  a  slowish  oven.  Serve 
them  up  the  moment  they  are  to  be 
eaten,  with  sweet  sauce  in  the  dish, 
or  in  a  boat. 

SMELL  OF  PAINT.  When  a 
room  is  newly  painted,  place  three 
or  four  tubs  full  of  water  near  the 
wainscot,  and  renew  the  water  daily. 
In  two  or  three  days  it  will  absorb 
all  the  offensive  effluvia  arising  from 
the  paint,  and  render  the  room 
wholesome.  The  smell  of  paint  may 
also  be  prevented,  by  dissolving  some 
frankincense  in  spirits  of  turpentine 
over  a  slow  fire,  and  mixing  it  with 
the  paint  before  it  be  laid  on. 

SMELLING  BOTTLE.  Reduce 
to  powder  an  equal  quantity  of  sal- 
ammoniac  and  quicklime  separately, 
put  two  or  three  drops  of  the  es- 
sence of  bergamot  into  a  small  bot- 
tle, then  add  the  other  ingredients, 
and  cork  it  close.  A  drop  or  two 
of  aether  will  improve  it. 

SMELTS.  This  delicate  hsh  is 
caught  in  the  Thames,  and  some 
other  large  rivers.  When  good  and 
in  season,  they  have  a  fine  silvery 
hue,  are  very  firm,  and  have  a  re- 
freshing smell  like  cucumbers  newly 
cut.  They  should  not  be  washed 
more  than  is  necessary  merely  to 
clean  them.  Dry  them  in  a  cloth, 
lightly  flour  them,  and  shake  it  off*. 
Dip  them  in  plenty  of  eggs,  then  in- 
to bread  crumbs  grated  fine,  and 
i  plunge  them  into  a  good  pan  of 
j  boiling  lard.  Let  them  continue 
f  gently  boiling,  and  a  few  minutes 
will  make  them  a  bright  yellow- 
brown.  Take  care  not  to  take  off" 
the  light  roughness  of  the  crumbs, 
or  their  beauty  will  be  lost. 

SMOKED  HERRINGS.  Clean 
and  lay  them  in  salt  one  night,  with 
saltpetre ;  then  hang  them  on  a 
stick,  through  the  eyes,  in  a  row. 
Have  ready  an  old  cask,  in  which 
put  some  saw-dust,  and  in  the  midst 


of  it  a  heater  red-hot.  Fix  the  stick 
over  the  smoke,  and  let  them  remain 
twenty-four  hours. 

SMOKY  CHIMNIES.  The 
plague  of  a  smoking  chimney  is  pro- 
verbial, and  has  engaged  consider- 
able attention  from  observers  of  va- 
rious descriptions.  Smoky  chim- 
nies  in  a  new  house,  are  such,  fre- 
quently, for  want  of  air.  The  work- 
manship of  the  rooms  being  all  good  * 
and  just  out  of  the  workman's  hands, 
the  joints  of  the  flooring  and  of  the 
pannels  of  the  wainscoting  are  all 
true  and  tight ;  the  more  so  as  the 
walls,  perhaps  not  yet  thoroughly 
dry,  preserve  a  dampness  in  the  air 
of  the  room  which  keeps  the  wood- 
work swelled  and  close :  the  doors 
and  the  sashes  too  being  worked 
with  truth,  shut  with  exactness,  so 
that  the  room  is  perfectly  tight,  no 
passage  being  left  open  for  the  air 
to  enter  except  the  key-hole,  and 
even  that  is  frequently  closed  by 
a  little  dropping  shutter.  In  this 
case  it  is  evident  that  there  can  be 
no  regular  current  through  the  flue 
of  the  chimney,  as  any  air  escaping 
from  its  aperture  would  cause  an 
exhaustion  in  the  air  of  the  room 
similar  to  that  in  the  receiver  of  an 
air-pump,  and  therefore  an  equal 
quantity  of  air  would  rush  down  the 
flue  to  restore  the  equilibrium  ;  ac- 
cordingly the  smoke,  if  it  ever  as- 
cended to  the  top,  would  be  beat 
down  again  into  the  room.  Those, 
therefore,  who  stop  every  crevice  in 
a  room  to  prevent  the  admission  of 
fresh  air,  and  yet  would  have  their 
chimney  carry  up  the  smoke,  require 
inconsistencies  and  expect  impossi- 
bilities. The  obvious  remedy  in 
this  case  is,  to  admit  more  air,  and 
the  question  will  be  how  and  where 
this  necessary  quantity  of  air  from 
without  is  to  be  admitted,  so  as  to 
produce  the  least  inconvenience ; 
for  if  the  dodr  or  window  be  left  so 
much  open,  it  causes  a  cold  draft 
of  air  to  the  fire-place,  to  the  great 
discomfort  of  those  who  sit  there. 
363 


SMO 


SMO 


Various  have  been  the  contrivances 
to  avoid  this,  such  as  bringing  in 
fresh  air  through  pipes  in  the  jambs 
of  the  chimney,  which,  pointing  up- 
wards, should  blow  the  smoke  up 
the  funnel ;  opening  passages  in  the 
funnel  above  to  let  in  air  for  the 
same  purpose  ;  but  these  produce 
an  effect  contrary  to  that  intended, 
for  as  it  is  the  constant  current  of 
air  passing  from  the  room  through 
the  opening  of  the  chimney  into  the 
flue,  which  prevents  the  smoke  com- 
ing out  into  the  room,  if  the  funnel 
is  supplied  by  other  means  with  the 
air  it  wants,  and  especially  if  that 
air  be  cold,  the  force  of  that  current 
is  diminished,  and  the  smoke  in  its 
efforts  to  enter  the  room  finds  less 
resistance.  The  wanted  air  must 
then  indispensably  be  admitted  into 
the  room  to  supply  what  goes  off 
through  the  opening  of  the  chimney, 
and  it  is  advisable  to  make  the  aper- 
ture for  this  purpose  as  near  the 
ceiling  as  possible,  because  the  heat- 
ed air  will  naturally  ascend  and  oc- 
cupy the  highest  part  of  the  room, 
thus  causing  a  great  diflerence  of 
climate  at  different  heights,  a  defect 
which  will  be  in  some  measure  ob- 
viated by  the  admission  of  cold  air 
near  the  ceiling,  which  descending, 
will  beat  down  and  mingle  the  air 
more  effectually.  Another  cause  of 
smoky  chimnies  is  too  short  a  fun- 
nel, as,  in  this  case,  the  ascending 
current  will  not  always  have  suflicient 
power  to  direct  the  smoke  up  the 
flue.  This  defect  is  frequently 
found  in  low  buildings,  or  the  upper 
stories  of  high  ones,  and  is  unavoid- 
able, for  if  the  flue  be  raised  high 
above  the  roof  to  strengthen  its 
draft,  it  is  then  in  danger  of  being 
blown  down  and  crushing  the  roof 
in  its  fall.  The  remedy  in  this  case 
is  to  contract  the  opening  of  the 
chimney  so  as  to  oblige  all  the 
entering  air  to  pass  through  or  very 
near  the  fire,  by  which  means  it  will 
be  considerably  heated,  and  by  its 
rgeat  rarefaction,  cause  a  powerful 
364 


draft,  and  compensate  for  the  shovt- 
ness  of  its  column.  The  case  of  too 
short  a  funnel  is  more  general  than 
would  be  imagined,  and  often  found 
where  one  would  not  expect  it ;  for 
it  is  not  uncommon  in  ill-contrived 
buildings,  instead  of  having  a  sepa- 
rate funnel  for  each  fire-place,  to  bend 
and  turn  the  funnel  of  an  upper 
room  so  as  to  make  it  enter  the  side  of 
another  flue  that  comes  from  below. 
By  this  means  the  funnel  of  the  up- 
per room  is  made  short,  of  course, 
since  its  length  can  only  be  reckon- 
ed from  the  place  where  it  enters  the 
lower  funnel,  and  that  flue  is  also 
shortened  by  all  the  distance  be- 
tween the  entrance  of  the  second 
funnel  and  the  top  of  the  stack  ;  for 
all  that  part  being  readily  supplied 
with  air  through  the  second  flue, 
adds  no  strength  to  the  draft,  espe- 
cially as  that  air  is  cold  when  there 
is  no  fire  in  the  second  chimney. 
The  only  easy  remedy  here,  is  to 
keep  the  opening  shut  of  that  flue 
in  which  there  is  no  fire.  Another 
very  common  cause  of  the  smoking 
of  chimnies  is,  their  overpowering 
one  another.  For  instance,  if  there 
be  two  chimnies  in  one  large  room, 
and  you  make  fires  in  both  of  them, 
you  will  find  that  the  greater  and 
stronger  fire  shall  overpower  the 
weaker,  and  draw  air  down  its  fun- 
nel to  supply  its  own  demand,  which 
air  descending  in  the  weaker  funnel 
M'ill  drive  down  its  smoke,  and  force 
it  into  the  room.  If,  instead  of  be- 
ing in  one  room,  the  two  chimnies 
are  in  two  different  rooms  commu- 
nicating by  a  door,  the  case  is  the 
same  whenever  that  door  is  open. 
The  remedy  is,  to  take  care  that 
every  room  have  the  means  of  sup- 
plying itself  from  without,  with  the 
air  its  chimney  may  require,  so  that 
no  one  of  them  may  be  obliged  to 
borrow  from  another,  nor  under  the 
necessity  of  lending.  Another  cause 
of  smoking  is,  when  the  tops  of 
chimnies  are  commanded  by  higher 
buildings,  or  by  a  hill,  so  that  the 


SMO 


SMO 


■wind  blowing  over  such  emiueuces 
,  falls  like  water  over  a  dam,  some- 
times almost  perpendicularly  on  the 
tops  of  the  chimnies  that  lie  in  its 
way,   and   beats   down   the   smoke 
contained   in   them.      The  remedy 
commonly  applied  in  this  case  is, 
a  turn-cap,  made  of  tin  or  plate- 
iron,  covering  the  chimney  above, 
and  on  three  sides,  open  on  one  side, 
turning  on    a   spindle,    and   which 
being  guided  or  governed  by  a.  vane, 
always  presents  its  back  to  the  wind. 
This  method  will  generally  be  found 
effectual,  but  if  not,  raising  the  flues, 
where  practicable,  so  as  their  tops 
may  be  on  a  level  with  or  higher 
than  the  commanding  eminence,  is 
more  to  be  depended  on.     There  is 
another  case  of  command,  the  re- 
verse of  that  last  mentioned  ;  it  is 
where  the  commanding  eminence  is 
farther  from  the  wind  than  the  chim- 
ney    commanded.      For    instance, 
suppose  the  chimney  of  a  building 
to  be  so  situated  as  that  its  top  is 
below  the  level  of  the  ridge  of  the 
roof,  which,  when  the  wind  blows 
against  it,    forms    a  kind    of  dam 
against  its  progress.     In  this  case, 
the  wind  being  obstructed  by  this 
dam,   will,    like   water,    press   and 
search  for  passages  through  it,  and 
finding  the  top  of  the  chimney  be- 
low the  top  of  the  dam,  it  will  force 
itself  down  that  funnel  in  order  to 
get  through  by  some  door  or  win- 
dow open  on  the  other  side  of  the 
building,  and  if  there  be  a  fire  in 
such  chimney,  its  smoke  is  of  course 
beat  down  and  fills  the  room.     The 
only  remedy  for  this  inconvenience 
is,  to  raise  the  funnel  higher  than 
the  roof,  supporting  it,  if  necessary, 
by  iron  bars  ;  for  a  turn-cap  in  this 
case  has  no  effect,  the  dammed  up 
air  pressing    down  through    it    in 
whatever   position    the   wind    may 
have  placed  its  opening.     Chimnies 
otherwise   drawing  well  are  some- 
times made  to  smoke  by  the  impro- 
per and  inconvenient  situation  of  a 
door.     When  the  door  and  chimney 


are  placed  on  the  same  side  of  a 
room,  if  the  door  is  made  to  open 
from  the  chimney,  it  follows,  that 
when  only  partly  opened,  a  current 
of  air  is  admitted  and  directed  across 
the  opening  of  the  chimney,  which 
is  apt  to  draw  out  some  of  the  smoke. 
Chimnies  which  generally  draw  well, 
do,    nevertheless,     sometimes    give 
smoke  into  the  room,  it  being  driven 
down  by  strong  winds  passing  over        S 
the  tops  of  their  flues,  though  not         ^ 
descending  from  any  commanding 
eminence.     To  understand  this,   it 
may  be  considered  that  the  rising 
light  air,  to  obtain  a  free  issue  from 
the  funnel,  must  push  out  of  its  way, 
or  oblige  the  air  that  is  over  it  to 
rise.     In  a  time  of  calm,  or  of  little 
wind,  this  is  done  visibly  ;  for  we 
see  the  smoke  that  is  brought  up  by 
that  air  rise  in  a  column  above  the 
chimney.     But  when  a  violent  cur- 
rent of  wind  passes  over  the  top  of 
a  chimney,    its   particles   have    re- 
ceived so  much  force,  which  keeps 
them    in    a    horizontal    direction, 
and  follow  each  other  so  rapidly, 
that  the   rising   light   air  has    not 
strength  sufHcient  to  oblige  them  to 
quit  that  direction,  and  move  up- 
wards to  permit  its  issue.     Add  to 
this,  that  some  of  the  air  may  im- 
pinge on  that  part  of  the  inside  of 
the  funnel  which  is  opposed  to  its 
progress,   and   be  thence  reflected 
downwards  from  side  to  side,  driv- 
ing the   smoke   before  it  into   the 
room.*    The  simplest  and  best  re- 
medy in  this  case  is  the  application 
of  a  chimney-pot,  which  is  a  hollow 
truncated  cone  of  earthenware  placed 
upon  the  top  of  the  flue.     The  in- 
tention of  this  contrivance  is,  that 
the  wind  and   eddies  which   strike 
against  the  oblique  surface  of  these 
covers  may  be  reflected  upwards  in- 
stead of  blowing  down  the  chimney. 
The  bad  construction  of  ^re-places 
is  another  cause  of  smoking  chim- 
neys ;  and  this  case  will  lead  us  to 
the  consideration  of  the  methods  of 
increasing  the  heat  and  diminishing 
365 


SMO 


SMO 


the  consumption  of  fuel ;  for  it  will 
be  found  that  the  improvements  ne- 
cessary to  produce  the  last-men- 
tioned end  will  also  have  a  general 
tendency  to  cure  smoky  chimnies. 
On  this  subject  the  meritorious  la- 
bours of  Count  Rumford  are  con- 
spicuous, and  we  shall  proceed  to 
give  an  abridged  account  of  his  me- 
thod. In  investigating  the  best 
form  of  a  fire-place,  it  will  be  ne- 
cessary to  consider,  first,  what  are 
the  objects  which  ought  principally 
to  be  had  in  view  in  the  construction 
of  a  fire-place ;  and,  secondly,  to 
consider  how  these  objects  can  best 
be  attained.  Now  the  design  of  a 
chimney-fire  being  simply  to  warm 
a  room,  it  is  essential  to  contrive  so 
that  this  end  shall  be  actually  at- 
tained, and  with  the  least  possible 
expence  of  fuel,  and  also  that  the 
air  of  the  room  be  preserved  per- 
fectly pure  and  fit  for  respiration, 
and  free  from  smoke  and  all  dis- 
agreeable smells.  To  cause  as  many 
as  possible  of  the  rays,  as  they  are 
sent  off  from  the  fire  in  straight  lines, 
to  come  directly  into  the  room,  it 
will  be  necessary,  in  the  first  place, 
to  bring  the  fire  as  far  forward,  and 
to  leave  the  opening  of  the  fire-place 
as  wide  and  high  as  can  be  done 
without  inconvenience ;  and  se- 
condly, to  make  the  sides  and  back 
of  the  fire-place  of  such  form,  and 
of  such  materials,  as  to  cause  the 
direct  rays  from  the  fire  which  strike 
against  them,  to  be  sent  into  the 
room  by  reflection  in  the  greatest 
abundance.  Now,  it  will  be  found, 
upon  examination,  that  the  best  form 
for  the  vertical  sides  of  a  fire-place, 
or  the  covings,  as  they  are  called, 
is  that  of  an  upright  plane,  making 
an  angle  with  the  plane  of  the  back 
of  the  fire-place  of  about  135  de- 
grees. According  to  the  old  con- 
struction of  chimnies,  this  angle  is 
90  degrees,  or  forms  a  right  angle  ; 
but,  as  in  this  case  the  two  covings 
are  parallel  to  each  other,  it  is  evi- 
dent that  they  are  very  ill  contrived 
366 


for  throwing  into  the  room,  by  re- 
flection, the  rays  from  the  fire  which 
fall  on  them.  The  next  improvement 
will  be  to  reduce  the  throat  of  the 
chimney,  the  immoderate  size  of 
which  is  a  most  essential  fault  in 
their  construction ;  for,  however 
good  the  formation  of  a  fire-place 
may  be  in  other  respects,  if  the 
opening  left  for  the  passage  of  the 
smoke  is  larger  than  is  necessary 
for  that  purpose,  nothing  can  pre- 
vent the  warm  air  of  the  room  from 
escaping  through  it ;  and  whenever 
this  happens,  there  is  not  only  an 
unnecessary  loss  of  heat,  but  the 
warm  air,  which  leaves  the  room  to 
go  up  the  chimney,  being  replaced 
by  cold  air  from  without,  produces 
those  drafts  of  air  so  often  com- 
plained of.  But  though  these  evils 
may  be  remedied,  by  reducing  the 
throat  of  the  chimney  to  a  proper 
size,  yet,  in  doing  this,  several  con- 
siderations will  be  necessary  to  de- 
termine its  proper  situation.  As  the 
smoke  and  hot  vapour  which  rise 
from  a  fire  naturally  tend  up\vards, 
it  is  evident  that  it  will  be  proper  to 
place  the  throat  of  the  chimney  per- 
pendicularly over  the  fire  ;  but  to 
ascertain  its  most  advantageous  dis- 
tance, or  how  far  above  the  burning 
fuel  it  ought  to  be  placed,  is  not  so 
easy,  and  requires  several  advantages 
and  disadvantages  to  be  balanced. 
As  the  smoke  and  vapour  rise  in  con- 
sequence of  their  being  rarefied  by 
heat,  and  made  lighter  than  the  air 
of  the  surrounding  atmosphere,  and 
as  the  degree  of  their  rarefraction  is 
in  proportion  to  the  intensity  of  their 
heat,  and  as  this  heat  is  greater  near 
the  fire  than  at  a  distance  from  it, 
it  is  clear,  that  the  nearer  the  throat 
of  a  chimney  is  to  the  fire,  the 
stronger  will  be  what  is  commonly 
called  its  draught,  and  the  less  dan- 
ger there  will  be  of  its  smoking,  or 
of  dust  coming  into  the  room  when 
the  fire  is  stirred.  But,  on  the  other 
hand,  when  a  very  strong  draught  is 
occasion€<l   by   the  throat   of    the 


SMO 


SMO 


chimney  being  very  near  the  fire,  it 
may  happen  that  the  influx  of  air 
into  the  fire  may  become  so  strong 

■  as  to  cause  the  fuel  to  be  consumed 
too  rapidly.  This  however  will  very 

i  seldom  be  found  to  be  the  case,  for 
the  throats  of  chimnies  are  in  ge- 
neral too  high.  In  regard  to  the 
materials  which  it  will  be  most  ad- 
vantageous to  employ  in  the  con- 
struction of  fire-places,  little  diffi- 
culty will  attend  the  determination 
of  that  point.  As  the  object  in  view 
is  to  bring  radiant  heat  into  the 
room,  it  is  clear  that  that  material 
is  best  for  the  construction  of  a  fire- 
place which  reflects  the  most,  or 
which  absorbs  the  least  of  it,  for 
that  heat  which  is  absorbed  cannot 
be  reflected.  Now,  as  bodies  which 
absorb  radiant  heat  are  necessarily 
heated  in  consequence  of  that  ab- 
sorption ;  to  discover  which  of  the 
various  materials  that  can  be  em- 
ployed for  constructing  fire-places 
are  best  adapted  for  that  purpose, 
we  have  only  to  find,  by  an  experi- 
ment very  easy  to  be  made,  what 
bodies  acquire  least  heat,  when  ex- 
posed to  the  direct  rays  of  a  clear 
fire  •  for  those  which  are  least  heat- 
ed evidently  absorb  the  least,  and 
consequently  reflect  the  most  radiant 
heat.  And  hence  it  appears  that 
iron,  and  in  general  metals  of  all 
kinds,  which  are  well  known  to  grow 
very  hot  when  exposed  to  the  rays 
projected  by  burning  fuel,  are  to  be 
reckoned  among  the  very  worst  ma- 
terials that  it  is  possible  to  employ 
in  the  construction  of  fire-places. 
Perhaps  the  best  materials  are  fire- 
stone  and  common  bricks  and  mor- 
tar. These  substances  are  fortu- 
nately very  cheap,  and  it  is  not  easy 
to  say  to  which  of  the  two  the  pre- 
ference ought  to  be  given.  When 
bricks  are  used,  they  should  be  co- 
vered with  a  thin  coating  of  plaster, 
which,  when  perfectly  dry,  should 
be  white-washed.  The  fire-stone 
should  likewise  be  white-washed, 
when  that  is  used  ;  and  every  part 


of  the  fire-place  which  does  not  come 
into  actual  contact  with  the  burning 
fuel  should  be  kept  as  white  and 
clean  as  possible.  The  bringing  for-  , 
ward  of  the  fire  into  the  room,  or 
rather  bringing  it  nearer  to  the  front 
of  the  opening  of  the  fire-place,  and 
the  diminishing  of  the  throat  of  the 
chimney,  being  two  objects  princi- 
pally had  in  view  in  the  alterations 
of  fire-places  recommended,  it  is  M 
evident  that  both  these  may  be  at-  " 
tained  merely  by  bringing  forward 
the  back  of  the  chimney.  It  will 
then  remain  to  be  determined  how 
far  the  back  should  be  brought  for- 
ward. This  point  will  be  limited  by 
the  necessity  of  leaving  a  proper 
passage  for  the  smoke.  Now,  as 
this  passage,  which  in  its  narrowest 
part  is  called  the  throat  of  the  chim- 
ney, ought,  for  reasons  before  stated, 
to  be  immediately  or  perpendicularly 
over  the  fire,  it  is  evident  that  the 
back  of  the  chimney  should  be  built 
perfectly  upright.  To  determine 
therefore  the  place  of  the  new  back, 
nothing  more  is  necessary  than  to 
ascertain  how  wide  the  throat  of  the 
chimney  ought  to  be  left.  This 
width  is  determined  by  Count  Rum- 
ford  from  numerous  experiments, 
and  comparing  all  circumstances,  to 
be  four  inches.  Therefore,  sup- 
posing the  breast  of  the  chimney,  or 
the  wall  above  the  mantle,  to  be 
nine  inches  thick,  allowing  four 
inches  for  the  width  of  the  throat, 
this  will  give  thirteen  inches  for  the 
depth  of  the  fire-place.  The  next 
consideration  will  be  the  width 
which  it  will  be  proper  to  give  to 
the  back.  This,  in  fire-places  of 
the  old  construction,  is  the  same 
with  the  width  of  the  opening  in 
front;  but  this  construction  is  faulty, 
on  two  accounts  ;  first,  because  the 
covings  being  parallel  to  each  other, 
are  ill  contrived  to  throw  out  into 
the  room  the  heat  they  receive  from 
the  fire  in  the  form  of  rays  ;  and, 
secondly,  the  large  open  corners 
occasion  eddies  of  wind  which 
3a7 


SMO 


S  M  O 


frequently  disturb  the  fire  and  em- 
barrass the  smoke  in  its  ascent,  in 
such  a  manner  as  to  bring  it  into  the 
room.  Both  these  defects  may  be 
entirely  remedied,  by  diminishing 
the  width  of  the  back  of  the  fire- 
place. The  width  which  in  most 
cases  it  will  be  best  to  give  it,  is 
one-third  of  the  width  of  the  open- 
ing of  the  fire-place  in  front.  But 
k  it  is  not  absolutely  necessary  to  con- 
form rigorously  to  this  decision,  nor 
will  it  always  be  possible.  Where 
a  chimney  is  designed  for  warming 
a  room  of  moderate  size,  the  depth 
of  the  fire-place  being  determined 
by  the  thickness  of  the  breast  to 
thirteen  inches,  the  same  dimen- 
sions would  be  a  good  size  for  the 
width  of  the  back,  and  three  times 
thirteen  inches,  or  three  feet  three 
inches,  for  the  width  of  the  opening 
in  front,  and  the  angles  made  by  the 
back  of  the  fire-place,  and  the  sides 
of  it,  or  covings,  would  be  just  135 
degrees,  which  is  the  best  position 
they  can  have  for  throwing  heat  into 
the  room.  In  determining  the  width 
of  this  opening  in  front,  the  chimney 
is  supposed  to  be  perfectly  good, 
and  well  situated.  If  there  is  any 
reason  to  apprehend  its  ever  smok- 
ing, it  will  be  necessary  to  reduce 
the  opening  in  front,  placing  the 
covings  at  a  less  angle  than  135 
degrees,  and  especially  to  diminish 
the  height  of  the  opening  by  lower- 
ing the  mantle.  If  from  any  con- 
sideration, such  as  the  wish  to  ac- 
commodate the  fire-place  to  a  grate 
or  stove  already  on  hand,  it  should 
be  wished  to  make  the  back  wider 
than  the  dimension  recommended, 
as  for  instance,  sixteen  inches  ;  it 
will  be  advisable  not  to  exceed  the 
width  of  three  feet  three  inches  for 
the  opening  in  front,  as  in  a  very 
\vide  and  shallow  fire-place,  any 
sudden  motion  of  the  air  in  front 
would  be  apt  to  bring  out  puff's  of 
smoke  into  the  room.  The  throat 
of  the  chimney  being  reduced  to  four 
inches,  it  will  be  necessary  to  make 
%      368 


a  provision  for  the  passage  of  a  j 
chimney  sweeper.  This  is  to  be  .1 
done  in  the  following  manner.  In 
building  up  the  new  back  of  the  fire- 
place, when  this  wall  is  brought  up 
so  high  that  there  remains  no  more 
than  about  ten  or  eleven  inches  be- 
tween what  is  then  the  top  of  it  and 
the  underside  of  the  mantle,  an  open- 
ing or  door- way,  eleven  or  twelve 
inches  wide,  must  be  begun  in  the 
middle  of  the  back,  and  continued 
quite  to  the  top  of  it,  which  accord- 
ing to  the  height  that  it  will  com- 
monly be  necessary  to  carry  up  the  .1 
back,  will  make  the  opening  twelve 
or  fourteen  inches  high,  which  will 
be  quite  sufficient  for  the  purpose. 
When  the  fire-place  is  finished,  this 
door- way  is  to  be  closed  by  a  few 
bricks  laid  without  mortar,  or  a  tile 
or  piece  of  stone  confined  in  its 
place  by  means  of  a  rebate  made 
for  that  purpose  in  the  brickwork. 
As  often  as  the  chimney  is  swept, 
the  chimney  sweeper  removes  this 
temporary  wall  or  stone,  which  is 
very  easily  done,  and  when  he  has 
finished  his  work,  he  again  puts  it 
in  its  place.  The  new  back  and  i 
covings  may  be  built  either  of  brick- 
work or  of  stone,  and  the  space  be- 
tween them  and  the  old  back  and 
covings,  ought  to  be  filled  up  to  give 
greater  solidity  to  the  structure. 
This  may  be  done  with  loose  rub- 
bish or  pieces  of  broken  bricks  or 
stones,provided  the  work  be  strength- 
ened by  a  few  layers  or  courses  of  j 
bricks  laid  in  mortar  ;  but  it  will  be  ' 
indispensably  necessary  to  finish 
the  work  where  these  new  walls  end, 
that  is  to  say,  at  the  top  of  the  throat 
of  the  chimney,  where  it  ends 
abruptly  in  the  open  canal  or  flue, 
by  a  horizontal  course  of  bricks 
well  secured  with  mortar.  It  is  of 
much  importance  that  they  should 
terminate  in  this  manner  ;  for  were 
they  to  be  sloped  outward  and  raised 
in  such  a  manner  as  to  swell  out  the 
upper  extremity  of  the  throat  of  the 
chimney  iu  the  form  of  a  trumpet. 


S  MO 


SMO 


and  increase  it  by  degrees  to  the 
size  of  the  flue  of  the  chimney,  this 
construction  would  tend  to  assist  the 
winds  which  may  attempt  to  blow 
down  the  chimney,  in  forcing  their 
way  through  the  throat,  and  throw- 
ing the.  smoke  backward  into  the 
room.  The  internal  form  of  the 
breast  of  the  chimney  is  also  a  mat- 
ter of  great  importance,  and  which 
ought  to  be  particularly  attended  to. 
The  worst  form  it  can  have  is  that 
of  a  vertical  plane  or  upright  flat, 
and  next  to  this  the  worst  form  is  an 
inclined  plane.  Both  these  forms 
cause  the  current  of  warm  air  from 
the  room  which  will,  in  spite  of  every 
precaution,  sometimes  find  its  way 
into  the  chimney,  to  cross  upon  the 
current  of  smoke  which  rises  from 
the  fire  in  a  manner  most  likely  to 
embarrass  it  in  its  ascent  and  drive 
it  back.  The  current  of  air  which, 
passing  under  the  mantle,  gets  into 
the  chimney,  should  be  made  gra- 
dually to  bend  its  course  upwards, 
by  which  means  it  will  unite  quietly 
with  the  ascending  current  of  smoke, 
and  will  be  less  likely  to  check  and 
impede  its  progress.  This  is  to  be 
eflfected  by  rounding  oflf  the  inside 
of  the  breast  of  the  chimney,  which 
may  be  done  by  a  thick  coating  of 
plaster.  When  the  breast  or  wall 
of  the  chimney  in  front  is  very  thin, 
it  may  happen,  that  the  depth  of 
the  fire-place  determined  according 
to  the  preceding  rules  may  be  too 
small.  Thus  supposing  the  breast 
to  be  only  four  inches  thick,  which 
"is  sometimes  the  case,  particularly 
in  rooms  situated  near  the  top  of  a 
house,  taking  four  inches  for  the 
width  of  the  throat,  will  give  only 
eight  inches  for  the  depth  of  the  fire- 
place. In  this  case,  it  would  be 
proper  to  increase  the  depth  of  the 
fire-place  at  the  hearth  to  twelve 
or  thirteen  inches,  and  to  build  up 
the  back  perpendicularly  to  the 
height  of  the  top  of  the  grate,  and 
then  sloping  the  back  by  a  gen- 
tle inclination  forward,  bring  it  to 


its  proper  place  directly  under  the 
back  part  of  the  throat  of  the  chim- 
ney. This  slope,  though  it  ought 
not  to  be  too  abrupt,  yet  should  be 
quite  finished  at  the  height  of  eight 
or  ten  inches  above  the  fire,  other- 
wise it  may  perhaps  cause  the  chim- 
ney to  smoke  ;  but  when  it  is  very 
near  the  fire,  its  heat  will  enable  the 
current  of  rising  smoke  to  overcome  J| 
the  obstacle  which  this  slope  will  op- 
pose to  its  ascent,  which  it  could  not 
so  easily  do,  were  the  slope  situated 
at  a  greater  distance  from  the  burn- 
ing fuel.  There  is  one  important  cir- 
cumstance respecting  chimney  fire- 
places designed  for  burning  coals 
which  remains  to  be  examined,  and 
that  is  the  grate.  Although  there  are 
few  grates  that  may  not  be  used  in 
chimnies,  altered  or  constructed  on 
the  principles  recommended  by  Count 
Rumford,  yet  they  are  not  by  any 
means  all  equally  well  adapted  for 
thatpurpose.  Those  whose  construc- 
tion is  most  simple,  and  which  of 
course  are  the  cheapest,  are  beyond 
comparison  the  best  on  all  accounts. 
Nothing  being  wanted  but  merely  a 
grate  to  contain  the  coals,  and  all 
additional  apparatus  being  not  only 
useless  but  pernicious  ;  all  compli- 
cated and  expensive  grates  should 
be  laid  aside,  and  such  as  are  more 
simple  substituted  in  their  room. 
The  proper  width  for  grates  in  rooms 
of  a  middling  size,  will  be  from  six 
to  eight  inches,  and  their  length  may 
be  diminished  more  or  less  accord- 
ing to  the  difliiculty  of  heating  the 
room,  or  the  severity  of  the  weather. 
But  where  the  width  of  a  grate  is 
not  more  than  five  inches,  it  will  be 
very  diflicult  to  prevent  the  fire  from 
going  out.  It  has  been  before  ob- 
served that  the  use  of  metals  is  as 
much  as  possible  to  be  avoided  in 
the  construction  of  fire-places,  it 
will  therefore  be  proper  always  to 
line  the  back  and  sides  of  a  grate 
with  fire  stone,  which  will  cause  the 
fire  to  burn  better  and  give  more 
heat  into  the  room.  ~i 

3  b  369  ' 


SNI 


SOL 


SNAILS.  These  are  a  species  of 
slugs  covered  with  shell,  and  which 
are  very  destructive  to  wall  fruit. 
To  prevent  their  ascending  the  stand- 
ard trees,  tie  a  coarse  horse-hair 
rope  about  them,  two  or  three  feet 
from  the  ground  ;  and  to  secure  the 
wall  trees,  nail  a  narrow  slip  of 
horse-hair  cloth  against  the  wall, 
about  half  an  inch  from  the  ground, 
underneath  the  branches  of  the  tree. 
In  the  winter  time  the  snails  may  be 
found  in  the  holes  of  walls,  under 
thorns,  behind  old  trees  or  close 
hedges,  and  might  be  taken  and 
destroyed.  When  they  attack  ve- 
getables, a  few  sliced  turnips  laid 
on  the  borders  will  attract  them  in 
the  evening,  when  they  may  easily 
be  gathered  up.  Lime  and  ashes 
strewed  on  the  ground,  will  also  pre- 
vent their  depredations. 

SNIPES.  These  birds  will  keep 
several  days,  and  should  be  roasted 
without  drawing,  and  then  served 
on  toast.  Butter  only  should  be 
eaten  with  them,  as  gravy  takes  off 
from  the  fine  flavour.  The  thigh  and 
back  are  most  esteemed. 

SNIPES  IN  RAGOUT.  Slit 
them  down  the  backs,  but  do  not 
take  out  the  insides ;  toss  them  up 
with  a  little  melted  bacon  fat,  sea- 
soned with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
little  mushroom  ketchup  ;  when  they 
are  enough,  squeeze  in  a  little  juice 
of  lemon,  and  serve  them  up. 

SNIPES  IN  SURTOUT.  Half 
roast  your  snipes,  and  save  the  trail ; 
then  make  a  forcemeat  with  veal, 
and  as  much  beef  suet  chopped, 
and  beat  in  a  mortar  ;  add  an  equal 
quantity  of  bread  crumbs :  season 
it  with  beaten  mace,  pepper,  salt, 
parsley,  and  sweet  herbs  shred  fine  ; 
mix  all  together,  and  moisten  it  with 
the  yolks  of  eggs  :  lay  a  rim  of  this 
forcemeat  round  the  dish,  then  put 
in  your  snipes.  Take  strong  gravy, 
according  to  your  dish,  with  morels 
and  truffles,  a  few  mushrooms,  a 
sweetbread  cut  in  pieces,  and  an 
artichoke  bottom  cut  small  :  let  all 
370 


stew  together,  then  beat  up  the 
yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs  with  a 
little  w hite  wine ;  pour  this  into 
your  gravy,  and  keep  it  stirring  till 
it  is  of  a  proper  thickness,  then  let 
it  stand  to  cool ;  work  up  the  re- 
mainder of  your  forcemeat,  and  roll 
it  out  as  you  do  paste  ;  pour  your 
sauce  over  the  birds,  and  lay  on 
your  forcemeat ;  close  the  edges, 
and  v^ash  it  over  with  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  strew  bread  crumbs  over 
that ;  send  it  to  the  oven  about  half 
an  hour,  and  then  to  table  as  hot  as 
you  can. 

SNOW  BALLS.  Swell  some  rice 
in  milk,  and  strain  it  off.  Having 
pared  and  cored  some  apples,  put 
the  rice  round  them,  and  lie  up 
each  in  a  cloth.  Add  to  each  a  bit 
of  lemon  peel,  a  clove,  or  cinnamon, 
and  boil  them  well. 

SNOW  CREAM.  Put  to  a  quart 
of  cream  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
well  beaten,  four  spoonfuls  of  sweet 
wine,  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  a  bit  of 
lemon  peel.  Whip  it  to  a  froth,  re- 
move the  peel,  a'^d  serve  the  cream 
in  a  dish. 

SOLDERING.  Put  into  a  cru- 
cible two  ounces  of  lead,  and  when 
it  is  melted,  throw  in  an  ounce  of 
tin.  This  alloy  is  that  generally 
known  by  the  name  of  solder.  When 
heated  by  a  hot  iron,  and  applied  to  | 
tinned  iron,  with  powdered  rosin,  it  ' 
acts  as  a  cement  or  solder.  It  is 
also  used  to  join  leaden  pipes,  and 
other  articles. 

SOLES.  A  fine  thick  sole  is  al-. 
most  as  good  eating  as  turbot,  and 
may  be  boiled  in  the  same  way. 
Wash  the  fish  and  clean  it  nicely, 
put  it  into  a  fish-kettle  with  a  hand- 
ful of  salt,  and  as  much  cold  water 
as  will  cover  it.  Set  it  on  the  side 
of  the  fire,  take  off  the  scum  as  it 
rises,  and  let  it  boil  gently  about 
five  minutes,  or  longer  if  it  be  very 
large.  Send  it  up  on  a  fish-drainer, 
garnished  with  slices  of  lemon  and 
sprigs  of  curled  parsley,  or  nicely  i 
fried  smelts,  or  oysters.     Slices  of     ? 


SOL 


SOL 


lemon  for  garnish  are  universally 
approved,  either  with  fried  or  boiled 
fish.  Parsley  and  butter,  or  fennel 
and  butter,  make  an  excellent  sauce ; 
chervil  sauce,  or  anchovies,  are  also 
approved.  Boiled  soles  are  very 
good  warmed  up  like  eels,  or  cover- 
ed with  white  wine  sauce.  When 
soles  are  very  large,  the  best  way 
is  to  take  off  the  fillets,  trim  them 
neatly,  and  press  them  dry  in  a  soft 
cloth.  Egg  them  over,  strew  on  fine 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  them.  Or 
skin  and  wash  a  pair  of  large  soles 
very  clean,  dry  them  in  a  cloth,  wash 
them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  on  both 
sides,  and  strew  over  them  a  little 
flour,  and  a  few  bread  crumbs  ;  fry 
them  of  a  fine  gold  colour,  in  Flo- 
rence oil,  enough  to  cover  them  ; 
when  done,  drain  them,  and  lay 
them  into  an  earthen  dish  that  will 
hold  them  at  length,  and  set  them 
by  to  cool  ;  then  make  the  marinate 
with  a  pint  of  the  best  vinegar,  half 
a  pint  of  sherry,  some  salt,  pepper, 
nutmeg,  two  cloves,  and  a  blade  of 
mace  ;  boil  all  together  for  about 
ten  minutes,  then  pour  it  over  the 
fish  hot,  the  next  day  they  will  be 
fit  for  use.  When  you  dish  them  up, 
put  some  of  the  liquor  over  them  ; 
garnish  the  dish  with  fennel,  sliced 
lemon,  barberries,  and  horseradish. 
If  you  have  any  fried  fish  cold,  you 
may  put  it  into  this  marinate. — To 
fricassee  soles  white.  Clean  your 
soles  very  well,  bone  them  nicely, 
and  if  large,  cut  them  in  eight  pieces, 
if  small,  only  in  four ;  take  off  the 
heads ;  put  the  heads  and  bones, 
an  anchovy,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs, 
a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  some  whole 
pepper,  salt,  an  onion,  and  a  crust 
of  bread,  all  into  a  clean  saucepan, 
with  a  pint  of  water,  cover  it  close, 
and  let  it  boil  till  a  third  is  wasted  ; 
strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve  into  a 
stew-pan ;  put  in  your  soles  with  a 
gill  of  white  wine,  a  little  parsley 
chopped  fine,  a  few  mushrooms  cut 
in  two,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  enough  to  thicken  your  sauce; 


set  it  over  your  stove,  shake  your 
pan  frequently,  till  they  are  enough, 
and  of  a  good  thickness  ;  take  the 
scum  off  very  clean,  dish  them  up, 
and  garnish  with  lemon  and  barber- 
ries.— Another  way.  Strip  off  the 
black  skin  of  the  fish,  but  not  the 
white  ;  then  take  out  the  bones,  and 
cut  the  flesh  into  slices  about  two 
inches  long ;  dip  the  slices  in  the 
yolks  of  eggs,  and  strew  over  them 
raspings  of  bread  ;  then  fry  them  in 
clarified  butter,  and  when  they  are 
fried  enough,  take  them  out  on  a 
plate,  and  set  them  by  the  fire  till 
you  have  made  the  following  sauce. 
Take  the  bones  of  the  fish,  boil  them 
up  with  water,  and  put  in  some  an- 
chovy and  sweet  herbs,  such  a> 
thyme  and  parsley,  and  add  a  little 
pepper,  cloves  and  mace.  When 
these  have  boiled  together  some  time, 
take  the  butter  in  which  the  fish  was 
fried,  put  it  into  a  pan  over  the  fire, 
shake  flour  into  it,  and  keep  it  stir- 
ring while  the  flour  is  shaking  in ; 
then  strain  the  liquor  into  it,  in 
which  the  fish  bones,  herbs,  and  spice 
were  boiled,  and  boil  it  together,  till 
it  is  very  thick,  adding  lemon  juice 
to  your  taste.  Put  your  fish  into  a 
dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it ; 
serve  it  up,  garnished  with  slices  of 
lemon  and  fried  parsley.  This  dish 
may  take  place  on  any  part  of  the 
table,  either  in  the  first  or  second 
course. — Another  way.  Take  a  pair 
of  large  soles,  skin  and  clean  them 
well,  pour  a  little  vinegar,  and  strew 
some  salt  over  them  ;  let  them  lay 
in  this  till  they  are  to  be  used.  When 
you  want  to  boil  them,  take  a  clean 
stew-pan,  put  in  a  pint  of  white 
wine,  and  a  little  water,  a  faggot  of 
sweet  herbs,  an  onion  stuck  with 
three  or  four  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace, 
a  little  whole  pepper,  and  a  little 
salt.  When  your  soles  are  enough, 
take  them  up,  and  lay  them  into  a 
dish,  strain  off  the  liquor,  put  it  into 
the  stew-pan,  with  a  good  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  half  a 
pint  of  white  shrimps  clean  picked  ; 
:^71 


SOL 


SOR 


toss  all  up  together,  till  it  is  of  a 
proper  thickness  ;  take  care  to  skim 
it  very  clean,  pour  it  over  the  fish. 
Garnish  the  dish  with  scraped  horse- 
radish, and  sliced  lemon  ;  or  you 
may  send  them  to  table  plain,  and 
for  sauce,  chop  the  meat  of  a  lob- 
ster, bruise  the  body  very  smooth 
with  a  spoon,  mix  it  with  your  liquor, 
and  send  it  to  table  in  a  boat  or 
bason.  This  is  much  the  best  way 
to  dress  a  small  turbot. 

SOLE  PIE.  Split  some  soles 
from  the  bone,  and  cut  the  fins  close. 
Season  with  a  mixture  of  salt,  pep- 
per, a  little  nutmeg  and  pounded 
mace,  and  put  them  in  layers,  with 
oysters.  A  pair  of  middling-sized 
soles  will  be  sufiicient,  and  half  a 
hundred  oysters.  Put  in  the  dish 
the  oyster  liquor,  two  or  three  spoon- 
fuls of  broth,  and  some  butter. 
When  the  pie  comes  from  the  oven, 
pour  in  a  cupful  of  thick  cream,  and 
it  will  eat  excellently. — Another  way. 
Clean  and  bone  a  pair  of  large  soles ; 
boil  about  two  pounds  of  eels  ten- 
der ;  take  off  all  the  meat,  put  the 
bones  into  the  water  they  were  boil- 
ed in,  with  the  bones  of  the  soles,  a 
blade  of  mace,  whole  pepper,  and  a 
little  salt ;  let  this  boil  till  you  have 
about  half  a  pint  of  strong  broth. 
Take  the  flesh  ofl*  the  eels,  and  chop 
it  very  fine,  with  a  little  lemon  peel, 
an  anchovy,  parsley,  and  bread 
crumbs  :  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
nutmeg,  and  beaten  mace  ;  melt  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and 
work  all  up  to  a  paste.  Sheet  the 
dish  with  a  good  puff-paste  ;  lay 
the  forcemeat  on  the  paste,  and  then 
lay  in  the  soles;  strain  off  the  broth, 
scum  it  clean,  pour  over  the  fish  a 
sufficient  quantity,  and  lay  on  the 
lid.  When  it  comes  from  the  oven, 
if  you  have  any  of  the  broth  left, 
you  may  warm  it,  and  pour  it  into 
the  pie. 

SOLID    SYLLABUBS.      Mix   a 

^uart  of  thick  raw  cream,  one  pound 

of  refined  sugar,  a  pint  and  a  half  of 

f\ne  raisin  wine,  in  a  deep  pan  ;  and 

372 


add  the  grated  peel  and  the  juice 
of  three  lemons.  Beat  or  whisk  it 
one  way,  half  an  hour  ;  then  put  it 
on  a  sieve,  with  a  piece  of  thin  mus- 
lin laid  smooth  in  the  shallow  end, 
till  the  next  day.  Put  it  in  glasses  : 
it  will  keep  good  in  a  cool  place  ten 
days. 

SOMERSETSHIRE  SYLLABUB. 
Put  into  a  large  china  bowl  a  pint 
of  port,  a  pint  of  sherry,  or  other 
white  wine,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Milk 
the  bowl  full.  In  twenty  minutes' 
time,  cover  it  pretty  high  with  clout- 
ed cream.  Grate  nutmeg  over  it, 
add  pounded  cinnamon,  and  non- 
pareil comfits. 

SORE  BREASTS.  Sore  breasts 
in  females,  during  the  time  of  suck- 
ling, are  often  occasioned  by  the 
improper  practice  of  drawing  the 
breasts,  which  is  both  painful  and 
dangerous.  If  they  get  too  full  and 
hard  before  the  infant  can.  be  ap- 
plied, it  is  better  to  let  them  remain 
a  few  hours  in  that  state,  than  to 
use  any  unnatural  means,  or  else  to 
present  the  breast  to  a  child  that  is 
a  few  months  old.  It  is  the  appli- 
cation of  too  great  force  in  drawing 
them,  placing  a  child  to  suck  at  im- 
proper times,  the  use  of  stimulating 
liquors  and  heated  rooms,  which 
frequently  occasion  milk  fevers  and 
abscesses  in  the  breast.  The  nipple 
is  sometimes  so  sore,  that  the  mother 
is  sometimes  obliged  to  refuse  the 
breast,  and  a  stagnation  takes  place, 
which  is  accompanied  with  ulcera- 
tions and  fever.  To  prevent  these 
dangerous  affections,  the  young 
mother  should  carefully  protrude 
the  nipple  between  her  fingers  to 
make  it  more  prominent,  and  cover 
it  with  a  hollow  nutmeg  several  weeks 
previous  to  her  delivery.  But  if  the 
parts  be  already  in  a  diseased  state, 
it  will  be  proper  to  bathe  them  with 
lime  wa^^^er,  or  diluted  port  wine. 
After  this  the  breast  should  be 
dressed  with  a  little  spermaceti 
ointment,  or  a  composition  of  white 
wax  and  olive  oil,  which  is  mild  and 


S  OR 


SOU 


gentle.  If  this  do  not  answer  the 
purpose,  take  four  ounces  of  diachy- 
lon, two  ounces  of  olive  oil,  and  one 
ounce  of  vinegar.  Boil  them  toge- 
ther over  a  gentle  fire,  keep  stirring 
them  till  reduced  to  an  ointment, 
and  apply  a  little  of  it  to  the  nipple 
on  a  fine  linen  rag.  If  accompanied 
wiih  fever,  take  the  bark  in  electu- 
ary three  or  four  times  a  day,  the 
size  of  a  nutmeg,  and  persevere  in 
it  two  or  three  weeks  if  necessary. 

SORE  EYES.  Pound  together 
in  a  mortar,  an  ounce  of  bole-am- 
moniac, and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  white  copperas.  Shred  fine  an 
ounce  of  camphor,  and  mix  the  in- 
gredients well  together.  Pour  on 
them  a  quart  of  boiling  water, 
stir  the  mixture  till  it  is  cold,  and 
apply  a  drop  or  two  to  the  eye,  to 
remove  humours  or  inflammation. 
A  cooling  eye-water  may  be  made 
pf  a  dram  of  lapis  calaminaris  finely 
powdered,  mixed  with  half  a  pint  of 
white  wine,  and  the  same  of  plantain 
water. 

SORE  THROAT.  An  easy  re- 
medy for  this  disorder  is  to  dip  a 
piece  of  broad  black  ribband  into 
hartshorn,  and  wear  it  round  the 
throat  two  or  three  days.  If  this 
be  not  sufficient,  make  a  gargle  in 
the  following  manner.  Boil  a  little 
green  sage  in  water,  strain  it,  and 
mix  it  with  vinegar  and  honey.  Or 
pour  a  pint  of  boiling  verjuice  on  a 
handful  of  rosemary  tops  in  a  basin, 
put  a  tin  funnel  over  it  with  the  pipe 
upwards,  and  let  the  fume  go  to  the 
throat  as  hot  as  it  can  be  borne.  A 
common  drink  for  a  sore  throat  may 
be  made  of  two  ounces  of  Turkey 
figs,  the  same  quantity  of  sun  raisins 
cut  small,  and  two  ounces  of  pearl 
barley,  boiled  in  three  pints  of  wa- 
ter till  reduced  to  a  quart.  Boil  it 
gently,  then  strain  it,  and  take  it 
warm.  Sometimes  a  handful  of  salt 
heated  in  an  earthen  pan,  then  put 
into  a  flannel  bag,  and  applied  as 
hot  as  possible  round  the  throat, 
^ill  answer  the  purpose.     A  fumi- 


gation for  a  sore  throat  may  be 
made  in  the  following  manner.  Boil 
together  a  pint  of  vinegar,  and  an 
ounce  of  myrrh,  for  half  an  hour, 
and  pour  the  liquor  into  a  basin. 
Place  over  it  the  large  part  of  a  fun- 
nel that  fits  the  basin,  and  let  the 
patient  inhale  the  vapour  by  putting 
the  pipe  of  the  funnel  into  his  mouth. 
The  fumigation  must  be  applied  as 
hot  as  possible,  and  renewed  every 
quarter  of  an  hour,  till  the  patient 
is  relieved.  For  an  inflammation  or 
putrid  sore  throat,  or  a  quinsey, 
this  will  be  found  of  singular  use  if 
persisted  in. 

SORREL  SAUCE.  Wash  and 
clean  a  quantity  of  sorrel,  put  it  in- 
to a  stewpan  that  will  just  hold  it, 
with  a  piece  of  butter,  and  cover  it 
close.  Set  it  over  a  slow  fire  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  pass  the  sorrel 
with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon 
through  a  hair  sieve,  season  it  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  dust  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Make  it  hot,  and  serve 
it  up  under  lamb,  veal,  or  sweet- 
breads. Cayenne,  nutmeg,  and  le- 
mon juice,  are  sometimes  added. 

SORREL  SOUP.  Make  a  good 
gravy  with  part  of  a  knuckle  of  veal, 
and  the  scrag  end  of  a  neck  or  a 
chump  end  of  a  loin  of  mutton.  Sea- 
son it  with  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  two  or  three 
cloves.  When  the  meat  is  quite 
stewed  down,  strain  it  off,  and  let  it 
stand  till  cold.  Clear  it  well  from 
the  fat,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with 
a  young  fowl  nicely  trussed,  and  set 
it  over  a  slow  fire.  Wash  three  or 
four  large  handfuls  of  sorrel,  chop 
it  a  little,  fry  it  in  butter,  put  it  into 
the  soup,  and  let  the  whole  stew  till 
the  fowl  is  well  done.  Skim  it  very 
clean,  and  serve  it  up  with  the  fowl 
in  the  soup. 

SOUPS.  It  has  generally  been 
considered  as  good  economy  to  use 
the  cheapest  and  most  inferior  kind 
of  meat  for  broths  and  soups,  and 
to  boil  it  down  till  it  is  entirely  de- 
stroyed, and  hardly  worth  giving  to 
373 


sou 


sou 


the  pigs.  But  this  is  a  false  fruga- 
lity ;  and  it  is  far  better  to  buy  good 
pieces  of  meat,  and  only  stew  them 
till  they  are  tender  enough  to  be 
eaten.  Lean  juicy  beef,  mutton,  or 
veal,  form  the  basis  of  good  broth  ; 
and  it  is  therefore  advisable  to  pro- 
cure those  pieces  which  afford  the 
richest  succulence,  and  such  as  is 
fresh  slain.  Stale  meat  will  make 
the  broth  grouty  and  bad  tasted, 
and  fat  is  not  so  well  adapted  to  the 
purpose.  The  following  herbs, 
roots,  and  seasonings,  are  proper 
for  making  and  giving  a  relish  to 
broths  and  soups,  according  as  the 
taste  may  suit.  Scotch  barley,  pearl 
barley,  wheat  flour,  oatmeal,  bread, 
raspings,  peas,  beans,  rice,  vermi- 
celli, maccaroni,  isinglass,  potatoe 
mucilage,  mushroom,  or  mushroom 
ketchup,  champignons,  parsnips, 
carrots,  beet  root,  turnips,  garlic, 
shalots,  and  onions.  Sliced  onions 
fried  with  butter  and  flour  till  they 
are  browned,  and  then  rubbed 
through  a  sieve,  are  excellent  to 
heighten  the  colour  and  flavour  of 
brown  soups  and  sauces,  and  form 
the  basis  of  most  of  the  fine  relishes 
furnished  by  the  cook.  The  older 
and  drier  the  onion,  the  stronger 
will  be  its  flavour,  and  the  quantity 
must  be  regulated  accordingly. 
Leeks,  cucumber,  or  burnet  vinegar ; 
celery,  or  celery  seed  pounded.  The 
latter,  though  equally  strong,  does 
not  impart  the  delicate  sweetness 
of  the  fresh  vegetable ;  and  when 
used  as  a  substitute,  its  flavour 
should  be  corrected  by  the  addition 
of  a  bit  of  sugar.  Cress  seed,  pars- 
ley, common  thyme,  lemon  thyme, 
orange  thyme,  knotted  marjoram, 
sage,  mint,  winter  savoury,  and  ba- 
sil. As  fresh  green  basil  is  seldom 
to  be  procured,  and  its  fine  flavour 
is  soon  lost,  the  best  way  of  pre- 
serving the  extract  is  by  pouring 
wine  on  the  fresh  leaves.  Bay  leaves, 
tomata,  tarragon,  chervil,  burnet, 
allspice,  cinnamon,  ginger,  nutmeg, 
clove,  mace,  black  pepper,  white 
374 


pepper,  essence  of  anchovy,  lemon 
peel,  lemon  juice,  and  Seville  orange 
juice.  The  latter  imparts  a  finer 
flavour  than  the  lemon,  and  the  acid 
is  much  milder.  The  above  mate- 
rials, with  wine  and  mushroom  ket- 
chup, combined  in  various  propor- 
tions, will  make  an  endless  variety 
of  excellent  broths  and  soups.  The 
general  fault  of  English  soups  seems 
to  be  the  employment  of  an  excess 
of  spice,  and  too  small  a  proportion 
of  roots  and  herbs.  This  is  espe- 
cially the  case  with  tavern  soups, 
where  cayenne  and  garlic  are  often 
used  instead  of  black  pepper  and 
onion,  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining 
a  higher  relish.  Soups,  which  are 
intended  to  constitute  the  principal 
part  of  a  meal,  certainly  ought  not 
to  be  flavoured  like  sauces,  which 
are  only  designed  to  give  a  relish  to 
some  particular  dish.  The  princi- 
pal art  in  composing  a  good  rich 
soup,  is  so  to  proportion  the  several 
ingredients  one  to  another,  that  no 
particular  taste  be  stronger  than  the 
rest;  but  to  produce  such  a  fine 
harmonious  rehsh,  that  the  whole 
becomes  delightful.  In  order  to  this, 
care  must  be  taken  that  the  roots 
and  herbs  be  perfectly  well  cleaned, 
and  that  the  water  be  proportioned 
to  the  quantity  of  meat,  and  other 
ingredients.  In  general  a  quart  of 
water  may  be  allowed  to  a  pound 
of  meat  for  soups ;  and  half  the 
quantity  for  gravies.  If  they  stew 
gently,  little  more  water  need  be  put 
in  at  first,  than  is  expected  at  the 
end ;  for  when  the  pot  is  covered 
quite  close,  and  the  fire  gentle,  very 
little  is  wasted.  Gentle  stewing  is 
incomparably  the  best ;  the  meat  is 
more  tender,  and  the  soup  better 
flavoured.  The  cover  of  a  soup 
kettle  should  fit  very  close,  or  the 
most  essential  parts  of  the  broth 
will  soon  evaporate,  as  will  also  be 
the  case  with  quick  boiling.  It  is 
not  merely  the  fibres  of  the  meat 
that  affbrd  nourishment,  but  chiefly 
the  juices  they  contain ;  and  these 


sou 


sou 


are  not  only  extracted  but  exhaled, 
if  it  be  boiled  fast  in  an  open  vessel. 
A  succulent  soup  can  never  be  made 
but  in  a  well  closed  vessel,  which 
preserves  the  nutritive  parts  by  pre- 
venting their  dissipation,  yet  the 
flavour  is  perhaps  more  wholesome 
by  an  exposure  to  the  air.  Place 
the  soup  kettle  over  a  moderate  fire, 
sufHcient  to  make  the  water  hot, 
without  causing  it  to  boil;  for  if 
the  water  boils  immediately,  it  will 
not  penetrate  the  meat,  and  cleanse 
it  from  the  clotted  blood  and  other 
matters,  which  ought  to  go  off  in 
scum.  The  meat  will  be  hardened  all 
over  by  violent  heat,  will  shrink  up 
as  if  it  were  scorched,  and  afford 
very  little  gravy.  On  the  contrary, 
by  keeping  the  water  heating  about 
half  an  hour  without  boiling,  the 
meat  swells,  becomes  tender,  and 
its  fibres  are  dilated.  By  this  pro- 
cess, it  yields  a  quantity  of  scum, 
which  must  be  taken  off  as  soon  as 
it  appears.  After  the  meat  has  had 
a  good  infusion  for  half  an  hour,  the 
fire  may  be  improved  to  make  the 
pot  boil,  and  the  vegetables  be  put 
in  with  a  little  salt.  These  will  cause 
more  scum  to  rise,  which  must  be 
taken  off  immediately.  Then  cover 
the  boiler  very  closely,  and  place  it 
at  a  proper  distance  from  the  fire, 
where  it  is  to  boil  very  gently  and 
equally,  but  not  fast.  Soups  will 
generally  take  from  three  to  six 
hours  doing.  The  better  way  is  to 
prepare  them  the  evening  before, 
as  that  will  give  more  time  to  attend 
to  the  dinner  the  next  day.  When 
the  soup  is  cold,  the  fat  may  much 
more  easily  apd  completely  be  re- 
moved ;  and  when  it  is  decanted, 
take  care  not  to  disturb  the  settlings 
at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel,  which 
are  so  fine  that  they  will  escape 
through  a  sieve.  A  tammis  is  the 
best  strainer,  the  soup  appears 
smoother  and  finer,  and  the  cloth  is 
easier  cleaned  than  any  sieve.  If 
you  strain  it  while  it  is  hot,  let  the 
tammis    or   napkin    be   previously 


soaked  in  cold  water ;  the  coldness 
of  the  strainer  will  tend  to  coagulate 
the  fat,   and   only   suffer  the  pure 
broth   to   pass    through.     The  full 
flavour  of  the  ingredients  can  only 
be  extracted  by  long  and  slow  sim- 
mering,   during   which     the    boiler 
must  be  kept  close  covered,  to  pre- 
vent evaporation.  Clear  soups  must 
be  perfectly  transparent,  thickened 
soups    about    the    consistence    of 
cream  ;  the  latter  will  require  nearly 
double  the   quantity   of  seasoning, 
but  too  much  spice   makes  it  un- 
wholesome.    To  thicken   and  give 
body  to  soups  and  sauces,  the  fol- 
lowing materials  are  used.     Bread 
raspings,  potatoe  raucilage,isinglass, 
flour   and    butter,   barley,  rice,    or 
oatmeal  and  water  rubbed  well  to- 
gether.    Any   of  these   are    to   be 
mixed  gradually  with  the  soup,  till 
thoroughly     incorporated,     and     it 
should  afterwards  have  at  least  half 
an  hour's  gentle  simmering.     If  it 
appears  lumpy,  it  must  be  passed 
through  a  tammis  or  fine  sieve.     A 
piece  of  boiled  beef  pounded  to  a 
pulp,  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  flour, 
and  rubbed   through  a   sieve,   and 
gradually  incorporated  with  the  soup, 
will  be  found  an  excellent  addition. 
If  the  soup  is  too  thin  or  too  weak, 
take  oflf  the  cover  of  the  boiler,  and 
let  it  boil   till  some  of  the  watery 
part  of  it  has  evaporated  ;  or  add 
some   of  the   thickening  materials 
before  mentioned.  When  soups  and 
gravies  are  kept  from  day  to  day,  in 
hot  weather,  they  should  be  warm- 
ed up  every  day,  and  put  into  fresh 
scalded  pans  or  tureens,  and  placed 
in  a  cool  cellar.     In  temperate  wea- 
ther, every  other  day  may  be  suf- 
ficient.— It  has  been  imagined  that 
soups  tend  to  relax  the  stomach  ; 
but  so  far  from  being  prejudicial  in 
this  way,  the  moderate  use  of  such 
kind  of  liquid  food  may  rather  be 
considered  as  salutary,  and  aft'ord- 
ing  a  good  degree  of  nourishment. 
Soup  of  a  good  quality,  if  not  eaten 
too  hot,  or  in  too  great  a  quantity, 
376 


sou 


sou 


is  attended  with  great  advantages, 
especially  to  those  who  drink  but 
little.  Warm  fluids  in  the  form  of 
soup,  unite  with  our  juices  much 
sooner  and  better,  than  those  which 
are  cold  and  raw.  On  this  account, 
what  is  called  Restorative  Soup  is 
the  best  food  for  those  who  are  en- 
feebled by  disease  or  dissipation, 
and  for  old  people,  whose  teeth  and 
digestive  organs  are  impaired.  After 
taking  cold,  or  in  nervous  head- 
achs,  cholics,  indigestions,  and  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  cramps  and  spasms 
in  the  stomach,  warm  broth  or  soup 
is  of  excellent  service.  After  intem- 
perate eating,  to  give  the  stomach  a 
holiday  for  a  day  or  two,  by  a  diet 
on  mutton  broth,  is  the  best  way  to 
restore  its  tone.  The  stretching  of 
any  power  to  its  utmost  extent, 
weakens  it;  and  if  the  stomach  be 
obliged  every  day  to  do  as  much  as 
it  can,  it  will  every  day  be  able  to 
do  less.  It  is  therefore  a  point  of 
wisdom  to  be  temperate  in  all  things, 
frequently  to  indulge  in  soup  diet, 
and  occasionally  in  almost  total  ab- 
stinence, in  order  to  preserve  the 
stomach  in  its  full  tone  and  vigour. 
— Cheap  soups  for  charitable  pur- 
poses are  best  made  of  fat  meat, 
well  boiled  with  vegetables.  Much 
unreasonable  prejudice  has  prevailed 
on  this  subject,  as  if  fat  was  unsuit- 
able for  such  a  purpose,  when  it  is 
well  known  that  the  nutritious  parts 
of  animal  and  vegetable  diet  depend 
on  the  oil,  jelly,  mucilage,  and 
sweetness  which  they  contain.  The 
farina  of  grain,  and  the  seeds  of  ve- 
getables, contain  more  of  the  nu- 
tritious and  essential  parts  of  the 
plant  than  any  other,  as  is  evident 
from  the  use  of  celery  seed,  the 
eighth  part  of  an  ounce  of  which 
will  give  more  relish  to  a  gallon  of 
soup,  than  a  large  quantity  of  the 
root  or  stalk.  On  the  same  prin- 
ciple, the  fat  is  the  essence  of  meat, 
nearly  so  as  the  seeds  of  plants  are 
of  their  respective  species.  To  es- 
tablish this  fact,  a  simple  cxperi- 
37fJ 


ment  will  be  sufficient.  Boil  from 
two  to  four  ounces  of  the  lean  part 
of  butcher's  meat  in  six  quarts  of 
water,  till  reduced  to  a  gallon. 
Thicken  it  with  oatmeal,  and  the 
result  of  the  decoction  will  be  found 
to  be  water  gruel,  or  something  like 
it.  But  dissolve  the  same  quantity 
of  the  fat  of  meat  in  a  gallon  of  wa- 
ter, thicken  it  over  the  fire  with  oat- 
meal, and  the  result  will  be  a  very 
pleasant  broth,  possessing  the  iden- 
tical taste  of  the  meat  in  a  consi- 
derable degree,  whether  of  beef  or 
mutton.  If  some  of  the  gelatinous 
parts  of  meat  be  added,  the  broth 
is  then  of  a  rich  and  nutritious  qua- 
lity, and  can  be  made  very  cheap. 
For  example  :  take  from  four  to  six 
ouncesof  barley,  oatmeal  two  ounces, 
onions  or  leeks  a  small  quantity  ; 
beef  fat,  suet,  or  drippings,  from 
two  to  four  ounces ;  celery  seed 
half  a  spoonful,  pepper  and  salt  to 
give  the  soup  a  relish,  and  water 
sufficient  to  make  a  gallon.  Boil 
the  barley,  previously  washed,  in 
six  quarts  of  water,  which  when 
boiled  sufficiently  soft  will  be  re- 
duced to  a  gallon.  It  will  be  ne- 
cessary to  skim  it  clean  in  the  course 
of  the  boiling,  and  to  stir  it  well 
from  the  bottom  of  the  boiler.  The 
celery  seed  should  be  bruised,  and 
added  with  the  leeks  and  onions, 
towards  the  end  of  the  process. 
The  oatmeal  is  to  be  mixed  in  a  lit- 
tle cold  water,  and  put  in  about  an 
hour  before  the  soup  is  done.  In 
the  last  place  add  the  fat,  melted 
before  the  fire,  if  not  in  a  state  of 
drippings,  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  A  few  grains  of  cayenne 
would  give  the  soup  a  higher  relish. 
Wheat  flour  may  be  used  instead  of 
oatmeal,  but  in  a  smaller  propor- 
tion. The  addition  of  turnips,  car- 
rots, and  cabbages,  will  be  a  con- 
siderable improvement.  The  inten- 
tion of  the  oatmeal  or  flour  is,  by  the 
mucilage  they  contain,  assisted  with 
barley  broth,  to  unite  the  fat  with 
the  liquid,  so  as  to  form  one  uniform 


sou 


sou 


mass.  Where  the  fat  is  suspended 
in  the  soup,  and  not  seen  boating 
on  the  top,  by  which  it  is  rendered 
easier  of  digestion,  and  more  readily 
convertible  into  good  chyle,  it  is 
evident  that  it  must  be  more  palata- 
ble, as  well  as  abundantly  more  nu- 
tritious. Some  may  think  this  kind 
of  soup  unwholesome,  from  the 
quantity  of  fat  it  contains;  but  a 
little  reflection  will  shew  the  con- 
trary. Suet  puddings  and  dumplins 
are  *ot  unwholesome,  neither  are 
mutton  drippings  with  potatoes  or 
other  vegetables.  In  short,  fat  is 
eaten  daily  by  all  ranks  of  people, 
in  some  way  or  other,  in  much  larger 
quantities  than  is  prescribed  for 
soup.  A  labouring  man  would  find 
no  difficulty  in  eating  as  much  suet 
at  one  meal,  in  a  flour  pudding,  or 
as  much  drippings  as  is  necessary 
for  a  gallon  of  soup,  in  a  mass  of 
potatoes  or  cabbages  ;  while  at  the 
same  time  a  quart  of  soup  with  a 
slice  of  bread, "would  be  a  very 
hearty  meal.  In  no  other  way  could 
meat  drippings  be  applied  to  so 
good  a  purpose,  as  in  the  manufac- 
ture of  a  gallon  of  soup,  sufficient 
to  give  a  dinner  to  a  whole  family. 
The  quantity  of  fat  or  drippings  ne- 
cessary for  the  soup  is  so  small, 
that  it  may  easily  be  spared  from  a 
joint  of  roast  meat,  while  enough 
will  remain  for  other  purposes. 
When  mutton  dripping  is  made  into 
soup,  wheat  flour  is  better  than  oat- 
meal ;  but  the  mucilage  of  potatoe 
is  better  still,  requiring  only  one 
ounce  to  the  gallon.  When  pork  is 
roasted,  peas  should  be  used  in  pre- 
ference to  boiled  barley,  and  the 
soup'  will  be  very  superior  in  flavour 
to  any  that  is  made  with  the  bones 
of  meat,  or  combined  with  bacon. 
Fat  pork  is  eaten  daily  in  large 
quantities,  in  most  of  the  counties 
of  England ;  and  in  some  parts, 
hog's  lard  is  spread  on  bread  in- 
stead of  butter,  besides  the  abund- 
ance of  lard  that  is  used  by  all  ranks 
of  people,  in  puddings,  cakes,  and 


pasties.  Fat  enters  so  much  into 
the  composition  of  our  diet,  that  we 
could  scarcely  subsist  without  it ; 
and  the  application  of  it  to  soups 
is  only  a  different  mode  of  using  it, 
and  certainly  more  frugal  and  eco- 
nomical than  any  other.  It  may 
readily  be  perceived  how  soups 
made  from  lean  meat  might  be  im- 
proved by  the  addition  of  a  little 
fat,  mixed  up  and  incorporated  with 
a  mucilage  of  potatoes,  of  wheat 
flour,  oatmeal,  peas,  and  barley. 
But  where  a  quantity  of  fat  swims 
on  the  surface  of  the  broth,  made 
from  a  fat  joint  of  meat,  and  it  can- 
not from  its  superabundance  be 
united  with  the  liquid,  by  means  of 
any  mucilage,  it  had  better  be  skim- 
med off*,  and  preserved  for  future 
use  ;  otherwise  the  soup  will  not  be 
agreeable,  for  it  is  the  due  propor- 
tion of  animal  and  vegetable  sub- 
stance that  makes  soup  pleasant  and 
wholesome.  To  make  good  soup 
of  a  leg  of  beef  or  an  ox  cheek, 
which  is  generally  called  stew,  a 
pretty  large  quantity  of  the  vegetable 
class  ought  to  be  added  ;  and  none 
seems  better  adapted  than  Scotch 
barley,  by  which  double  and  treble 
the  quantity  of  soup  may  be  made 
from  the  same  given  weight  of  meat. 
One  pint  of  well  prepared  leg  of 
beef,  or  ox  cheek  soup,  together 
with  the  fat,  will  make  a  gallon  of 
good  soup  at  the  trifling  expense  of 
four-pence.  In  the  same  way  soups 
may  be  made  from  the  stew  of  oeef, 
mutton,  veal,  or  pork,  choosing  those 
parts  where  mucilage,  jelly,  and  fat 
abound.  Bacon  is  allowed  to  be  a 
considerable  improvement  to  the 
taste  of  veal,  whether  roasted  or 
boiled ;  and  it  is  the  same  in  soup. 
When  therefore  veal  broth  is  made 
for  family  use,  two  ounces  of  fat 
bacon  should  be  added  to  every 
gallon,  melted  before  the  fire  or  in 
a  fryingpan.  The  soup  should  then 
be  thickened  with  flour,  potatoe 
starch,  and  barley.  The  last  article 
should  seldom  be  omitted  in  any 
3  c  377 


sou 


sou 


soup,  it  being  so  very  cheap  and 
pleasant,  as  well  as  wholesome  and 
nutritious.  Soup  made  of  tripe  is 
another  cheap  article.  Boil  a  pound 
of  well  cleaned  tripe  in  a  gallon  of 
barley  broth,  with  onions  and  pars- 
ley, adding-  two  ounces  of  bacon  fat, 
with  salt  and  pepper.  This  pro- 
duces an  extremely  nutritious  soup, 
from  the  gelatinous  principle  with 
which  the  tripe  abounds.  Cow  heels, 
calves  and  sheep's  feet,  are  also  well 
adapted  to  the  purpose.  Excellent 
soups  may  be  made  from  fried  meat, 
where  the  fat  and  gravy  are  added 
to  the  boiled  barley  ;  and  for  that 
purpose,  fat  beef  steaks,  pork  and 
mutton  chops,  should  be  preferred, 
as  containing  more  of  the  nutritious 
principle.  Towards  the  latter  end 
of  frying  the  steaks,  add  a  little 
water  to  produce  a  gravy,  which  is 
to  be  put  to  the  barley  broth.  A 
little  flour  should  also  be  dredged 
in,  which  will  take  iip  all  the  fat  left 
in  the  fryingpan.  A  quantity  of 
onions  should  previously  be  shred, 
and  fried  with  the  fat,  which  gives 
the  soup  a  fine  flavour,  with  the  ad- 
dition of  pepper,  salt,  and  other 
seasoning.  There  would  be  no  end 
to  the  variety  of  soups  that  might 
be  made  from  a  number  of  cheap  ar- 
ticles differently  combined  ;  but  per- 
haps the  distribution  of  soup  gratis 
does  not  answer  so  well  as  teaching 
people  how  to  make  it,  and  to  im- 
prove their  comforts  at  home.  The 
time  lost  in  waiting  for  the  boon, 
and  fetching  it  home,  might  by  an 
industrious  occupation,  however 
poorly  paid  for  labour,  be  turned  to 
a  better  account  than  the  mere  ob- 
taining of  a  quart  of  soup.  But  it 
unfortunately  happens,  that  the  best 
and  cheapest  method  of  making  a 
nourishing  soup,  is  least  known  to 
those  who  have  most  need  of  it. 
The  labouring  classes  seldom  pur- 
chase what  are  called  the  coarser 
pieces  of  meat,  because  they  do  not 
know  how  to  dress  them,  but  lay  out 
their  money  in  pieces  for  roasting, 
878 


which  are  far  less  profitable,  and 
more  expensive  in  the  purchase* 
To  save  time,  trouble,  and  tiring, 
these  are  generally  sent  to  the  oven 
to  be  baked,  the  nourishing  parts 
are  evaporated  and  dried  up,  the 
weight  is  diminished  nearly  one 
third,  and  what  is  puichased  with  a 
week's  earnings  is  only  sufficient  for 
a  day  or  two's  consumption.  If  in- 
stead of  this  improvident  proceed- 
ing, a  cheap  and  wholesome  soup 
were  at  least  occasionally  substi- 
tuted, it  would  banish  the  still  more 
pernicious  custom  of  drinking  tea 
two  or  three  times  a  day,  for  want 
of  something  more  supporting  and 
substantial.  In  addition  then  to  the 
directions  already  given,  the  follow- 
ing may  be  considered  as  one  of  the 
cheapest  and  easiest  methods  of 
making  a  wholesome  soup,  suited  to 
a  numerous  family  among  the  la- 
bouring classes.  Put  four  ounces 
of  Scotch  barley  washed  clean,  and 
four  ounces  of  sliced  onions,  into 
five  quarts  of  water.  Boil  it  gently 
for  one  hour,  and  pour  it  into  a  pan. 
Put  into  a  saucepan  nearly  two 
ounces  of  beef  or  mutton  drippings, 
or  melted  suet,  or  two  or  three 
ounces  of  minced  bacon  ;  and  when 
melted,  stir  into  it  four  ounces  of 
oatmeal.  Rub  these  together  into 
a  paste,  and  if  properly  managed, 
the  whole  of  the  fat  will  combine 
with  the  barley  broth,  and  not  a 
particle  appear  on  the  surface  to 
off'end  the  most  delicate  stomach. 
Now  add  the  barley  broth,  at  first 
a  spoonful  at  a  time,  then  the  rest 
by  degrees,  stirring  it  well  together 
till  it  boils.  Put  into  a  teacup  a 
dram  of  finely  pounded  cress  or  ce- 
lery seed,  and  a  quarter  of  a  dram 
of  finely  pounded  cayenne,  or  a 
dram  and  a  half  of  ground  black 
pepper  or  allspice,  and  mix  it  up 
with  a  little  of  the  soup.  Put  this 
seasoning  into  the  whole  quantity, 
stir  up  the  soup  thoroughly,  let  it 
simmer  gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
and  add  a  little,  salt.     The  flavptir 


i' 


sou 


sou 


mav  be  varied  by  doubling  the  por- 
tion of  onions,  or  adding  a  clove  of 
garlic  or  shalot,  and  leaving  out  the 
celery  seed.  Change  of  food  is  ab- 
solutely necessary,  not  only  as  a 
matter  of  pleasure  and  comfort,  but 
also  of  health.  It  may  likewise  be 
much  improved,  if  instead  of  water, 
it  be  made  of  the  liquor  that  meat 
has  been  boiled  in.  This  soup  has 
the  advantage  of  being  very  soon 
made,  with  no  more  fuel  than  is  ne- 
cessary to  warm  a  room.  Those 
who  have  not  tasted  it,  cannot  ima- 
gine what  a  savoury  and  satisfying 
meal  is  produced  by  the  combination 
of  these  cheap  and  homely  ingre- 
dients. 

SOUP  WITH  CUCUMBERS. 
Pare  and  cut  the  cucumbers,  then 
stew  them  with  some  good  broth, 
and  veal  gravy  to  cover  them.  When 
done  enough,  heat  the  soup  with 
the  liquor  they  were  stewed  in,  and 
season  it  with  salt.  Serve  up  the 
soup  garnished  with  the  cucumbers. 
These  will  be  a  proper  garnish  for 
almost  any  kind  of  soup. 

SOUP  A  L'  EAU.  Put  into  a 
saucepan  holding  about  three  pints, 
a  quarter  of  a  cabbage,  four  carrots, 
two  parsnips,  six  onions,  and  three 
or  four  turnips.  Add  a  root  of  ce- 
lery, a  small  root  of  parsley,  some 
sorrel,  a  bunch  of  white  beet  leaves 
and  chervil,  and  half  a  pint  of  peas 
tied  in  a  piece  of  linen.  Add  water 
in  proportion  to  the  vegetables,  and 
stew  the  whole  for  three  hours. 
Strain  off  the  broth,  add  some  salt, 
heat  it  and  serve  it  up,  garnished 
with  the  vegetables. 

SOUP  GRAVY.  Take  some  good 
juicy  lean  beef,  free  from  sinews  or 
other  offal  substance:  or  take  the 
lean  of  a  neck,  or  loin,  or  the  fleshy 
part  of  a  leg  of  mutton,  or  well- 
grown  fowl,  in  the  proportion  of  a 
pound  of  meat  to  a  quart  of  water 
to  beef,  and  rather  less  to  mutton 
or  fowl.  Cut  the  meat  in  pieces, 
and  let  it  stew  ver^i  gently  till  the 
pure  gravy  is  fairly  drawn  from  the 


meat,  without  extracting  the  dregs. 
The  time  required  for  this  will  vary 
according  to  the  quantity,  the  pro- 
per degree  of  heat  being  of  course 
longer  in  penetrating  the  larger  por- 
tion. From  an  hour  and  a  half  to 
three  hours,  at  discretion,  will  allow 
sufficient  time  for  any  quantity  that 
is  likely  to  be  wanted  at  once  for 
soup,  at  least  in  private  families. 
When  done,  strain  the  gravy  through 
a  hair  sieve  into  an  earthen  pot,  and 
let  it  stand  till  cold.  Take  off  the 
fat,  and  pour  the  gravy  clear  from 
the  sediment  at  the  bottom. 

SOUP  MAIGRE.  Melt  half  a 
pound  of  butter  into  a  stewpan, 
shake  it  round,  and  throw  in  half  a 
dozen  sliced  onions.  Shake  the  pan 
well  for  two  or  three  minutes,  then 
put  in  five  heads  of  celery,  two 
handfuls  of  spinach,  two  cabbage 
lettuces  cut  small,  and  some  parsley. 
Shake  the  pan  well  for  ten  minutes, 
put  in  two  quarts  of  water,  some 
crusts  of  bread,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
beaten  pepper,  and  three  or  four 
blades  of  mace.  A  handful  of  white 
beet  leaves,  cut  small,  may  be  add- 
ed. Boil  it  gently  an  hour.  Just 
before  serving,  beat  in  two  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  vine- 
gar.— Another.  Flour  and  fry  a 
quart  of  green  peas,  four  sliced 
onions,  the  coarse  stalks  of  celery, 
a  carrot,  a  turnip,  and  a  parsnip. 
Pour  on  three  quarts  of  water,  let 
it  simmer  till  the  whole  will  pulp 
through  a  sieve,  and  boil  in  it  the 
best  of  the  celery  cut  thin. — Another 
way.  Take  a  bunch  of  celery  wash- 
ed clean  and  cut  in  pieces,  a  large 
handful  of  spinage,  two  cabbage 
lettuces,  and  some  parsley ;  wash 
all  very  clean,  and  shred  them  small ; 
then  take  a  large  clean  stewpan,  put 
in  about  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and 
when  it  is  quite  hot,  slice  four  large 
onions  very  thin,  and  put  into  youjp 
butter ;  stir  them  well  about  for 
two  or  three  minutes  ;  then  put  in 
the  rest  of  your  herbs ;  shake  all 
well  together  for  near  twenty  minutes, 
379 


so  u 


sou 


dust  in  some  flour,  and  stir  them  to- 
gether ;  pour  in  two  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water  ;  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  beaten  mace  :  chip  a  handful 
of  crust  of  bread,  and  put  in  ;  boil 
it  half  an  hour,  then  beat  up  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  in  a  spoonful  of 
vinegar  ;  pour  it  in,  and  stir  it  for 
two  or  three  minutes  ;  then  send  it 
to  table. 

SOUP  WITH  ONIOte.  Blanch 
some  small  white  onions  in  scalding 
water,  peel  off  the  first  skin,  and 
stew  them  in  a  little  broth.  When 
ready,  lay  them  in  a  row  round  the 
edge  of  the  dish  intended  for  the 
soup.  To  keep  them  in  their  place, 
put  a  thin  slip  of  bread  rubbed  with 
white  of  egg  round  the  rim  of  the 
dish,  and  set  the  dish  for  a  moment 
over  a  stove  to  fasten  the  bread. 
Slips  of  bread  may  be  used  in  this 
manner  to  keep  all  kinds  of  garnish- 
ing to  soups  in  their  proper  place. 

SOUP  A  LA  REINE.  Blanch 
and  beat  very  fine  in  a  marble  mor- 
tar, three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sweet  almonds,  with  the  white  part 
of  a  cold  roasted  fowl.  Slice  to 
these  the  crumb  of  four  small  rolls, 
and  then  strain  to  it  three  quarts  of 
good  veal  gravy,  boiled  with  a  blade 
of  mace.  Simmer  these  all  together 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  rub 
them  through  a  tammis,  season  it 
with  salt,  give  it  a  boil,  and  serve  it 
up  with  a  small  tea-cupful  of  cream 
stirred  into  it,  and  the  slices  of  crust 
cut  off  the  rolls  laid  on  the  top. — 
Another  way.  Have  ready  a  strong 
veal  broth  that  is  white,  and  clean 
scummed  from  all  fat;  blanch  a 
pound  of  almonds,  beat  them  in  a 
mortar,  with  a  little  water,  to  pre- 
vent their  oiling,  and  the  yolks  of 
four  poached  eggs,  the  lean  part  of 
the  legs,  and  all  the  white  part  of  a 
roasted  fowl;  pound  all  together, 
as  fine  as  possible  ;  then  take  three 
quarts  of  the  veal  broth,  put  it  into 
a  clean  stew-pot,  put  your  ingredi- 
ents in,  and  mix  them  well  together  ; 
chip  in  the  crust  of  two  French  rolls 
300 


well  rasped  ;  boil  all  together  ovef 
a  stove,  or  a  clear  fire.  Take  a 
French  roll,  cut  a  piece  out  of  the 
top,  and  take  out  all  the  crumb  ; 
mince  the  white  part  of  a  roasted 
fowl  very  fine,  season  it  with  pep- 
per, salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  beaten 
mace  ;  put  in  about  an  ounce  of 
butter,  and  moisten  it  with  two 
spoonfuls  of  your  soup  strained  to 
it ;  set  it  over  the  st<.ve  to  be  tho- 
roughly hot :  cut  some  French  roll 
in  thin  slices,  and  set  them  before 
the  fire  to  crisp  ;  then  strain  off 
your  soup  through  a  tammis  or  a 
lawn  strainer,  into  another  clean 
stew-pot ;  let  it  stew  till  it  is  as 
thick  as  cream  ;  then  have  your  dish 
ready  ;  put  in  some  of  your  crisp 
bread ;  fill  your  roll  with  your  mince, 
and  lay  on  the  top  as  close  as  possi- 
ble ;  put  it  into  the  middle  of  your 
dish,  and  pour  a  ladleful  of  your 
soup  over  it ;  put  in  your  bread 
first,  then  pour  in  your  soup,  till 
your  dish  is  full.  Garnish  with  pet- 
ty patties  ;  or  make  a  rim  for  your 
dish,  and  garnish  with  lemon  raced. 
If  you  please,  you  may  send  a  chick- 
en boned  in  the  middle,  instead  of 
your  roll ;  or  you  may  send  it  to 
table  with  only  crisp  bread. 

SOUP  ALA  SAP.  Boil  half  a 
pound  of  grated  potatoes,  a  pound 
of  beef  sliced  thin,  a  pint  of  grey 
peas,  an  onion,  and  three  ounces  of 
rice,  in  six  pints  of  water  till  re- 
duced to  five.  Strain  it  through  a 
cullender,  pulp  the  peas  into  it,  and 
return  it  into  the  saucepan  with  two 
heads  of  sliced  celery.  Stew  it  ten- 
der, add  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve 
it  with  fried  bread. 

SOUR  BEER.  If  beer  be  brewed 
ever  so  well,  much  will  depend  on 
the  management  afterwards,  to  pre- 
vent its  becoming  sour  or  vapid. 
Different  conveniences  of  cellarage 
will  materially  affect  beer.  If  the 
cellar  is  bad,  there  should  not  be 
more  than  six  weeks  between  brew- 
ing and  brewing.  Where  beer  is 
kept  too  long  in  a  bad  cellar,  so  as 


sou 


sou 


to  be  affected  by  the  heat  of  the 
weather,  it  will  putrefy,  though  ever 
z.  so  well  bunged.  Hops  ma>  prevent 
^  its  turning  sour,  but  will  not  keep 
it  from  becoming, vapid.  It  should 
be  well  understood,  that  there  is  no 
certainty  in  keeping  beer,  if  not 
brewed  at  the  proper  season.  In 
winter  there  is  a  danger  of  wort  get- 
ting too  cold,  so  as  to  prevent  the 
process  of  fermentation  ;  and  in  the 
sununer,  of  its  not  beingcool  enough, 
unless  brewed  in  the  dead  of  night. 
In  temperate  weather,  at  the  spring 
or  autumn,  the  spirit  of  the  beer  is 
retained,  and  it  is  thereby  enabled 
to  work  the  liquor  clear  ;  whereas  in 
hot  weather,  the  spirit  quickly  eva- 
porates, leaving  the  wort  vapid  and 
flat,  unable  to  work  itself  clear,  but 
keeping  continually  on  the  fret,  till 
totally  spoiled.  This  is  the  obvious 
reason  ft)r  the  use  of  sugar,  prepared 
for  colour,  because  sugar  will  bear 
the  heat  better  than  malt;  and  when 
thoroughly  prepared,  possesses  such 
a  strong  principle  of  heat  in  itself, 
as  to  bid  defiance  to  the  hottest 
temperature  of  the  air,  and  to  ren- 
der its  turning  sour  almost  impos- 
sible. Clean  casks  are  also  essen- 
tial to  the  preservation  of  good  beer. 
To  keep  the  casks  sweet  and  in  order, 
never  allow  them  to  remain  open  ; 
but  whenever  the  beer  is  drawn  off, 
bung  them  up  tight  with  the  lees 
within  them.  In  a  good  cellar  they 
will  never  spoil.  Should  the  c  isks 
get  musty,  the  following  method  will 
remedy  the  evil.  Soak  them  well 
for  three  or  four  days  in  cold  water, 
then  fill  them  full  of  boiling  hot  wa- 
ter ;  put  in  a  lump  or  two  of  lime, 
shake  it  thoroughly  till  quite  dis- 
j  solved,  let  the  casks  stand  about 
half  an  hour,  then  wash  them  out 
with  cold  water,  and  they  will  be 
clean  an  i  sweet.  If  still  apprehen- 
sive of  the  beer  getting  Hat  or  sour, 
put  into  a  cask  containing  eiohteen 
gallons,  a  pint  of  ground  malt  sus- 
pended in  a  bacr,  and  close  the  bung 
perfectly.      This   will   prevent  the 


mischief,  and  the  betr  will  improve 
during  the  whole  time  of  drawing;  it. 
When  beer  has  actually  turned  sour, 
put  in  some  oyster  shells,  calc  necl 
to  whiteness,  or  a  little  powdered 
chalk.  Either  of  these  will  correct 
the  acidity,  and  make  it  brisk  and 
sparkling.  Salt  of  tartar,  or  soda 
powder,  put  into  the  beer  at  the  time 
of  drinking  it,  will  also  destroy  the 
acidity,  and  make  it  palatable. 

SOUR  KROUT.  Take  some  full- 
grown  hard  cabbages  of  the  closest 
texture,  and  cut  them  into  slices 
about  an  inch  thick,  opening  them 
a  little,  that  they  may  receive  the 
salt  more  effectually.  Rub  a  good 
deal  of  salt  amongst  them,  lay  them 
into  a  large  pan,  and  sprinkle  more 
salt  over  them.  Let  them  remain 
twenty-four  hours,  turning  them 
over  four  or  five  times,  that  every 
part  may  be  alike  saturated.  Next 
day  put  the  cabbage  into  a  tub  or 
large  jar,  pressing  it  down  well,  and 
then  pour  over  it  a  pickle  made  of 
a  pint  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water. 
This  pickle  must  be  poured  on  boil- 
ing hot,  and  the  cabbage  entirely 
covered  with  it.  Let  it  stand  thus 
twenty-four  hours  longer,  when  it 
will  have  shrunk  nearly  a  third. 
Then  take  the  cabbage  out,  and  put 
it  into  a  fresh  tub  or  jar,  pressing  it 
down  well  as  before,  and  pour  over 
it  a  pickle  made  as  follows.  To  one 
quart  of  the  salt  and  water  pickle 
which  had  been  used  the  day  be- 
fore, put  three  quarts  of  vinegar, 
four  ounces  of  allspice,  and  two 
ounces  of  carraway  seeds.  This 
must  be  poured  on  cold,  so  as  to 
cover  the  cabbage  completely.  Let 
it  stand  one  day  loosely  covered, 
and  then  stop  it  down  qu»te  close. 

SOUR  SAUCE  FOR  FISH.  Boil 
two  blades  of  mace  in  a  wine  glass 
of  water,  and  half  as  much  sharp 
vinegar,  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Then  take  out  the  mace,  and  put  in 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten. 
Shake  these  over  the  fire  one  way 
381 


SPA 


Sl»A 


till  the  sauce  is  properly  thickened, 
without  suffering  it  to  boil. 

SOUSE  FOR  BRAWN.  Boil  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  wheat  bran,  a 
sprig  of  bay,  and  a  sprig  of  rose- 
mary, in  two  gallons  of  water  for 
half  an  hour,  adding  four  ounces  of 
salt.  Strain  it,  and  let  it  cool. 
^  This  will  do  for  pig's  feet  and  ears, 
as  well  as  brawn. 

SOUSED  STURGEONS.  Draw 
and  divide  the  fish  down  the  back, 
and  then  into  pieces.  Put  the  fish 
into  salt  and  water,  clean  it  well, 
bind  it  with  tape,  and  boil  it  very 
carefully  in  vinegar,  salt,  and  water. 
When  done  lay  it  to  cool,  and  pack 
it  up  close  in  the  liquor  it  was  boil- 
ed in. 

SOUSED  TRIPE.  Boil  the  tripe, 
but  not  quite  tender  ;  then  put  it 
into  salt  and  water,  which  must  be 
changed  every  day  till  it  is  all  used. 
When  the  tripe  is  to  be  dressed,  dip 
it  into  a  batter  of  eggs  and  flour, 
and  fry  it  of  a  good  brown. 

SOY.  To  make  English  soy, 
pound  some  walnuts  when  fit  for 
pickling,  in  a  marble  mortar,  very 
small.  Squeeze  them  through  a 
strainer,  let  the  liquor  stand  to  set- 
tle, and  then  pour  off  the  fine.  To 
every  quart  of  liquor  put  a  pound  of 
anchovies,  and  two  cloves  of  shalot. 
Boil  it  enough  to  make  the  scum 
rise,  and  clear  it  well.  Add  two 
ounces  of  Jamaica  pepper,  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  df  mace,  and  half  a  pint 
of  vinegar.  Boil  it  again,  until  the 
anchovies  are  dissolved  and  the  sha- 
lot tender,  and  let  it  stand  till  the 
next  day.  Then  pour  off  the  fine, 
and  bottle  it  for  use.  Strain  the 
thick  through  a  sieve,  and  put  it  by 
separately.  When  used  for  fish, 
put  some  of  the  soy  to  the  usual 
anchovies  and  butter,  or  to  plain 
butter. 

SPANISH  CARDOONS.  Cut 
them  three  inches  long,  leaving  out 
any  that  are  hollow  and  green.  Boil 
them  in  water  half  an  hour,  and  then 
put  them  into  warm  water  to  pick 
382 


them.  Stew  them  with  some  broth, 
with  a  spoonful  of  flour  mixed  in  it. 
Add  salt,  onions,  roots,  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  a  dash  of  verjuice,  and 
a  little  butter.  When  they  are  well 
done  take  them  out,  and  put  them 
into  a  good  cullis,  with  a  little  broth. 
Boil  them  half  an  hour  in  this  sauce 
to  give  them  a  flavour,  and  then 
serve  them  up.  Let  the  sauce  be 
neither  too  clear  nor  too  thick,  and 
of  a  fine  light  colour. 

SPANISH  FLUMMERY.  Scald 
a  quart  of  cream,  with  a  little  cinna- 
mon or  mace.  Mix  this  gradually 
into  half  a  pound  of  rice  flour,  and 
then  stir  it  over  a  gentle  fire  till  it 
acquires  the  thickness  of  jelly. 
Sweeten  it  to  the  taste,  and  pour  it 
into  cups  or  shapes.  Turn  it  out 
when  cold,  and  serve  it  up.  Cream, 
wine,  or  preserves  eat  well  with  it, 
or  it  may  be  eaten  alone  as  prefer- 
red. Oatmeal  may  be  used  instead 
of  rice. 

SPANISH  FRITTERS.  Cut  the 
crumb  of  a  French  roll  into  square 
lengths,  of  the  thickness  of  one's 
finger,  nutmeg,  sugar,  pounded  cin- 
namon, and  an  egg.  When  well 
soaked,  fry  the  fritters  of  a  nice 
brown  ;  and  serve  with  butter,  wine, 
and  sweet  sauce. 

SPANISH  PUFFS.  Boil  a  stick 
of  cinnamon,  a  piece  of  lemon  peel, 
and  a  little  sugar,  in  three  quarters 
of  a  pint  of  water  for  ten  minutes. 
Let  it  cool,  then  add  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  shake  iii  three  large 
spoonfuls  of  flour.  Beat  these  well 
together,  add  three  more  ega:s,  and 
simmer  the  whole  over  the  fire,  till 
it  thickens  almost  to  a  paste.  Drop 
this  with  a  tea-spoon  into  boiling 
lard,  and  fry  these  little  puff's  of  a 
delicate  light  brown. 

SPANISH  SAUCE.  Put  some 
gravy  into  a  saucepan  with  a  glass 
of  white  wine,  and  the  same  of  good 
broth.  Add  a  bunch  of  parsley  and 
chives,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  half  a 
bay  leaf,  a  pinch  of  coriander  seed, 
two  cloves,  a  sliced  onion,  a  carrot. 


SPA 


SPA 


half  a  parsnip,  and  two  spoonfuls  of 
salad  oil.  Stew  these  for  two  hours 
over  a  very  slow  fire.  Skim  off  the 
fat,  pass  the  sauce  through  a  tam- 
mis,  season  it  wiih  pepper  and  salt, 
and  use  it  with  any  thing  as  ap- 
proved. 

SPARERIB.  Baste  it  with  a  very 
little  butter  and  tiour ;  and  when 
done,  sprinkle  it  with  dried  sage 
crumbled.  Serve  it  with  potatoes 
and  apple  sauce. 

SPARROW.  A  mischievous  de- 
structive bird  in  corn-fields,  and 
which  should  mostly  be  destroyed. 
It  is  observed,  that  were  all  the 
farmers  in  a  neighbourhood  to  agree 
to  their  destruction,  by  offering  re- 
wards for  their  heads,  their  num- 
bers might  be  lessened  ;  and  that 
were  the  practice  general,  surely 
the  whole  race  might  be  extirpated. 
It  is  supposed  that  six-pence  a  dozen 
the  first  year,  nine-pence  the  second, 
and  a  shilling  the  third  year,  would 
nearly  reach  their  complete  extirpa- 
tion. To  enforce  which  it  should 
be  considered  how  soon  twelve  spar- 
rows destroy  twelve  penny-worth  of 
wheat.  In  Kent,  they  use  a  species 
of  trap,  which  is  very  effectual  in 
taking  them.  It  consists  of  a  small 
wicker  basket,  resembling  a  fruit- 
sieve  of  the  London  markets,  with 
a  cover  of  the  same  material  fitted 
to  it,  and  formed  on  the  principle 
of  the  fish-pot,  and  the  vermin 
trap,  into  which  the  entrance  is  easy, 
but  the  return  difficult.  These  traps, 
which  are  an  ordinary  article  of  sale 
in  the  markets  of  the  district,  are 
constituted  of  brown  unpeeledoziers. 
The  diameter  about  two  feet;  the 
depth  nine  inches ;  the  cover  is 
somewhat  dishing,  with  a  tunnel 
or  inverted  cone,  in  the  centre, 
reaching  to  within  an  inch  of  the 
bottom  of  the  basket ;  the  aperture 
or  entrance,  formed  by  the  points 
of  the  twigs,  of  which  the  tunnel  is 
constructed,  being  about  an  inch 
and  a  half  in  diameter.  And  the 
usual  bait  is  wheat  scattered  in  the 


basket.  The  number  caught  at 
once,  is  frequently  more  than  theory 
would  suggest;  the  contentions  of 
a  few  that  have  entered,  seldom 
failing  to  bring  others  to  the  combat. 
These  mischievous  birds,  however, 
soon  grow  too  cunning  to  be  taken 
in  any  sort  of  trap  to  any  extent, 
which  has  a  chance  of  extirpating 
and  destroying  the  race ;  conse- 
quently some  more  effectual  and 
certain  plan,  such  as  that  suggested 
above,  or  some  other,  which  is  better 
and  more  fully  adapted  to  the  pur- 
pose, must  be  had  recourse  to  in 
order  to  completely  exterminate 
them,  and  prevent  the  injury  they 
do  annually  to  the  farmer,  in  the 
destruction  of  his  wheat  and  other  ,, 

crops.    Though  these  are  only  small 
birds,  they  destroy  vast  quantities 
of  grain,  much  more  than  has  indeed 
been    commonly    supposed.      It   is 
stated  to  have  been  calculated  to 
have  amounted  to  a  hundred  sacks 
of  wheat  besides  the  oats  and  bar- 
ley, in  the  course  of  only  one  season, 
in  a  township  of  no  very  great  ex- 
tent in  the  north-western  part  of  the 
kingdom.     Where  rewards  or  sums 
of  money  are  paid  for  the  taking 
or  destroying  them,  no  advantages 
are  gained,  except  where  there  are 
sufficiently  ample  and  proper  regu- 
lations entered  into  and   enforced, 
the  whole  district,  parish,  or  town- 
ship, becomes  partakers  in  the  bu-^ 
siness.    No  languid  or  half  measures 
will  do  any  thing  useful,  or  to  the 
purpose,  in  this  sort  of  undertaking. 
It  is  not  improbable,  but  that  these        ^ 
destructive  birds  might  be  greatly         11 
extirpated  and  thi-nned  down  in  their 
numbers,  by  the  use  of  some  taste- 
less infusion  of  a  strongly  poisonous 
nature,   either  to   the   ears  of  the* 
grain  at  the  time  of  harvest,  or  to 
the  naked  grain  in  the  winter  sea- 
son, when  they  are  extremely  eager 
for   food,    as   they    are    constantly        *«| 
found    to    remain    hovering    about       i^  ^ 
houses  or   other   buildings,    where       ^ 
the  effects  of  such  trials  might  easily 
303 


SPI 


SPt 


be  ascertained.  If  such  a  method 
should  succeed,  the  whole  race  might 
readily,  and  with  great  facility  and 
certainty,  be  exterminated. 

SPASMS.  An  involuntary  and 
painful  contraction  of  the  muscles 
mi?/  arise  from  various  causes,  and 
require  different  modes  of  treatment. 
But  if  no  medical  assistance  be  at 
hand,  the  application  of  volatile  lini- 
ments to  the  part  affected,  a  clyster 
with  a  little  laudanum  in  it,  or  the 
warm  bath,  may  be  tried  with  ad- 
vantage. 

SPERMACETI  OINTMENT. 
This  is  made  of  a  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  fine  salad  oil,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  white  wax,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
spermaceti,  melted  over  a  gentle 
fire,  and  kept  stirring  till  the  oint- 
ment is  cold. 

SPICES.  As  it  regards  health, 
spices  are  generally  improper  ;  but 
black  pepper,  ginger,  and  cayenne, 
may  be  esteemed  the  best.  Nutmegs, 
cloves,  mace,  cinnamon,  and  all- 
spice, are  generally  productive  of 
indigestion  and  headach,  in  persons 
of  a  weakly  habit. 

SPIDERS.  These  industrious  in- 
sects are  generally  loathed  and  de- 
stroyed, though  they  are  extremely 
useful  in  reducing  the  quantity  of 
flies,  and  serve  as  a  very  accurate 
barometer  for  the  weather.  When 
they  are  totally  inactive,  it  is  a  cer- 
tain sign  that  rain  will  shortly  fol- 
low ;  but  if  they  continue  to  spin 
during  a  shower,  it  indicates  that 
the  rain  will  soon  be  over,  and  that 
calm  and  fine  weather  will  succeed. 
If  the  weather  be  about  to  change, 
a/id  become  wet  or  windy,  the  spider 
will  make  the  supporters  of  his  web 
,very  short ;  but  if  the  threads  be 
extended  to  an  unusual  length,  the 
weather  will  continue  serene  for  ten 
or  twelve  days,  or  more,  according 
to  the  length  of  the  threads  which 
support  the  web.  The  red  spider 
however  is  very  injurious  and  de- 
structive to  different  sorts  of  plants 
and  fruit-trees,  especially  in  forcing- 
3^4 


houses.  It  is  found  particularly  so 
to  those  of  the  forced  French  bean, 
melon;  peach,  vine,  cherry,  currant, 
and  sonje  other  kinds.  The  genera- 
tion and  production  of  this  insect 
are  greatly  caused  and  promoted  by 
the  dry  warm  heat  that  is  constantly 
kept  up  in  the  houses  which  contain 
these  sorts  of  plants  and  trees,  and 
there  are  many  other  circumstances 
which  combine  in  bringing  it  forth. 
It  is  an  insect  which  has  no  wings, 
and  the  female  is  oviparous.  Several 
different  methods  have  been  attempt- 
ed in  order  to  the  removal  and  de- 
struction of  it.  Constant  daily  wa- 
tering, or  wa"shing  the  trees,  are  said 
to  have  the  power  of  subduing  it, 
but  in  the  execution  of  the  work, 
care  is  always  to  be  taken  that  every 
part  of  the  leaves  be  wetted,  other- 
wise the  insects  shelter  and  save 
themselves  in  the  dry  parts,  and  are 
preserved  from  the  effects  of  the 
water.  Moisture  conveyed  in  some 
way  or  other  is  certainly  found  to 
be  'hp  most  destructive,  of  any  thing 
yei  iliscovered,  of  these  pernicious 
insects,  as  well  as  many  others  that 
infest  hot-houses.  Throwing  weak 
lime-water  in  a  plentiful  manner  on 
the  under  sides  of  the  leaves,  where 
these  insects  are  commonly  found, 
will,  for  the  most  part,  soon  destroy 
them.  The  following  directions 
have  been  given  for  the  destruction 
of  this  sort  of  spider,  when  it  be- 
comes injurious  to  melon  plants ; 
and  the  same  may  probably  be 
found  useful  for  those  of  the  forced 
French  bean,  and  some  other  similar 
kinds.  In  cases  of  dry  weather, 
and^with  a  dry  heat,  melon  plants 
are  very  subject  to  be  infested  with 
the  red  spider ;  and  the  appear- 
ances of  it  may  constantly  be  long 
noticed  before  the  insects  can  be 
seen  with  the  naked  eye,  by  the 
leaves  beginning  to  curl  and  crack 
in  their  middle  parts.  Whenever 
they  are  discovered  to  be  in  this 
state  or  condition,  and  there  is  fine 
\yarra  sunny  weather,  the  watering 


SPI 


SPl 


of  them  all  over  the  leaves,  both  on 
the  under  and  upper  sides,  is  ad- 
vised ;  a  watering-pot,  with  a  rose 
finely  perforated  with  holes,  or  a 
garden-engine,  which  disperses  the 
water  in  a  fine  dew-like  manner, 
being  employed  for  the  purpose. 
The  work  should  be  performed  ahout 
six  o'clock  in  the  morning,  and  the 
plants  be  shaded  with  mats  about 
eight,  if  the  sun  shine  with  much 
power,  shutting  the  frames  down 
closely  until  about  eleven  ;  and  then 
admitting  a  small  quantity  of  fresh 
air,  letting  the  mats  remain  until 
about  three  in  the  afternoon,  whea 
they  should  be  wholly  taken  away. 
The  shade  which  is  thus  afforded 
by  the  mats  prevents  the  leaves  of 
the  plants  from  being  scorched  or 
otherwise  injured  by  the  action  of 
the  heat  of  the  sun  while  they  are 
in  a  wet  cooled  down  state.  Where 
a  southerly  breeze  prevails,  water- 
ing them  again  about  three  in  the 
afternoon  is  recommended,  shutting 
them  up  close  as  before,  to  keep  the 
heat  in,  which  causes  a  strong  ex- 
halation of  the  moisture,  and  is 
greatly  destructive  of  the  spiders. 
In  all  these  waterings,  the  water  is 
to  be  thrown  as  much  and  as  finely 
as  possible  on  the  under  sides  of  the 
leaves,  where  the  insects  mostly 
lodge  ;  the  vines  or  stems  of  the 
plants  being  gently  turned  in  that 
intention,  taking  great  care  not  to 
injure  them,  by  which  means  the 
water  is  capable  of  being  easily 
thrown  over  the  whole  of  the  under 
sides  of  the  leaves,  it  being  done  in 
a  gentle  manner,  in  the  modes  al- 
ready suggested,  so  as  not  to  wash 
up  the  mouldy  matters  unto  the 
plants  :  the  lights  and  sides  of  the 
frames  which  contain  the  plants, 
should  also,  at  the  same  time,  have 
water  plentifully  thrown  on  and 
!  against  them.  When  these  water- 
ings are  finished,  the  vines  or 
stems  of  the  plants  are  to  be  care- 
fully laid  down  again  in  their  former 
positions.  And  if  the  day  be  sunny, 
(No.  17.) 


the  mats  may  be  let  remain,  as  aP 
ready  directed,  until  the  leaves  of 
the  plants  become  perfectly  dry, 
air  being  admitted  according  to  the 
heat  that  may  be  present  at  the 
time.  It  is  likewise  further  advised 
as  a  precautionary  measure,  that, 
before  the  frames  and  lights,  which 
are  to  contain  plants  of  this  sort, 
are  employed,  they  should  be  well 
washed,  both  inside  and  out,  first 
with  clean  water,  and  then  with  a 
mixture  of  soap-suds  and  urine  ;  a 
brush  or  woollen  rag  being  made 
use  of  in  the  operation  ;  as  by  this 
method  the  ova  or  eggs  of  the  spi- 
ders or  other  insects  that  may  have 
been  deposited  and  lodged  in  or  on 
them,  in  the  preceding  season,  may 
be  cleared  away  and  destroyed. 
The  exhalations  of  the  water  which 
has  been  thrown  upon  the  plants,  ^ 
and  the  frames  or  boxes  that  con- 
tain them,  may  also  be  useful  in  kill- 
ing these  insects,  in  other  cases  by 
keeping  them  in  a  close  state.  These 
washings  should  never,  however,  be 
performed  in  cold  frosty  seasons  ; 
and  the  water  made  use  of  in  such  ^ 
cases  should  always  be  of  the  rain  • 

or  soft  kind.  ^ 

SPINACH.  This  vegetable  re- 
quires to  be  carefully  washed  and 
picked.  When  that  is  done,  throw 
it  into  a  saucepan  that  will  just  hold 
it,  sprinkle  it  with  a  little  salt,  and 
cover  it  close.  Set  the  pan  on  the 
fire,  and  shake  it  well.  When  suf- 
ficiently done,  beat  up  the  spinach 
with  some  butter,  but  it  must  be 
sent  to  table  pretty  dry.  It  would 
look  well,  if  pressed  into  a  tin  mould  J 

in  the  form  of  a  large  leaf,  which  is  M 
sold  at  the  tin  shops.  A  spoonful  ^ 
of  cream  is  an  improvement. 

SPINACH  CREAM.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  eight  eggs  with  a  whisk  or 
a  wooden  spoon,  sweeten  it  well, 
and  add  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  a  pint 
of  rich  cream,  and  three  quarters  of 
a  pint  of  new  milk.  Stir  it  well,  and 
then  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
spinach  juice.     Set  it  over  a  gentle 

3  D    '  385 


s^^ 


SPI 


stove,  and  stir  it  constantly  one  way, 
till  it  is  as  thick  as  a  hasty  pudding. 
Put  into  a  custard  dish  some  Na- 
ples biscuits,  or  preserved  orange, 
in  long  slices,  and  pour  the  mixture 
over  them.  It  is  to  be  eaten  cold, 
and  is  a  dish  either  for  supper,  or 
for  a  second  course. 

SPINACH  AND  EGGS.  The 
spinach  must  be  well  washed,  then 
throw  a  small  handful  of  salt  into  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water,  before 
the  spinach  is  put  in,  and  press  it 
down  as  it  boils.  When  it  becomes 
tender,  press  it  well  in  a  sieve  or 
cullender.  Break  the  eggs  into  cups, 
and  put  them  into  a  stewpan  of  boil- 
ing water.  When  done,  take  them 
out  with  a  slice,  and  lay  them  on  the 
spinach.  Send  them  to  table  with 
melted  butter. 

SPINACH  PUDDING.  Scald 
and  chop  some  spinach  very  fine, 
four  ounces  of  biscuit  soaked  in 
cream,  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  beat 
up,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  melted 
butter,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  and 
sugar  to  your  taste  ;  beat  up  all  to- 
gether, and  set  it  over  the  fire  till  it 
is  stiff,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  cool 
it,  and  bake  it  in  pufF-paste  ;  or  you 
may  butter  a  bason,  and  boil  it. — 
Another.  Boil  a  pint  of  cream,  with 
some  lemon-peel,  a  blade  of  mace, 
half  a  nutmeg  cut  in  pieces  ;  strain 
it  off,  and  stir  it  till  it  is  cold, 
then  boil  a  good  handful  of  young 
spinach  tender;  chop  it  very  fine  ; 
beat  up  eight  eggs,  leave  out  four 
whites,  add  some  fine  sugar  pound- 
ed, and  a  glass  of  sack  ;  mix  all 
well  together,  put  it  into  the  dish, 
with  a  pufF-paste  at  the  bottom,  and 
lay  on  the  top  candied  orange  and 
lemon  cut  in  thin  slices.  Half  an 
hour,  or  a  little  better,  will  bake  it. 

SPINACH  SOUP.  Shred  two 
Iiandfuls  of  spinach,  a  turnip,  two 
onions,  a  head  of  celery,  two  car- 
rots, and  a  little  parsley  and  thyme. 
Put  all  into  a  stewpot,  with  a  bit  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  a 
pint  of  good  broth,  or  the  liquor 
386 


in  which  meat  has  been  boiled. 
Stew  till  the  vegetables  are  quite 
tender,  and  work  them  with  a  spoon 
through  a  coarse  cloth  or  sieve.  To 
the  vegetable  pulp  and  liquor,  add 
a  quart  of  fresh  water,  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  boil  all  together  Have 
ready  some  suet  dumplins  the  size  of 
a  walnut,  and  put  them  into  a  tu- 
reen, before  the  soup  is  poured  over. 
The  suet  must  be  quite  fresh,  and 
not  shred  too  fine. 

SPIRITS.  Good  pure  spirits 
ought  to  be  perfectly  clear,  pleasant, 
and  strong,  though  not  of  a  pun- 
gent odour,  and  somewhat  of  a 
vinous  taste.  To  try  the  purity  of 
spirits,  or  whether  they  have  been 
diluted  with  water,  see  whether  the 
liquor  will  burn  away  without  leav- 
ing any  mixture  behind,  by  dipping 
in  a  piece  of  writing  paper,  and 
lighting  it  at  the  candle.  As  pure 
spirit  is  much  lightjer  than  water, 
put  a  hollow  ivory  ball  into  it :  the 
deeper  the  ball  sinks,  the  lighter 
the  liquor,  and  consequently  the 
more  spirituous. 

SPIRITS  OF  CLARY.  Distil  a 
peck  of  clary  flowers  in  a  cold  still, 
and  then  another  peck  of  flowers, 
adding  to  them  the  distilled  liquor. 
Put  to  this  a  bottle  of  sack  or  sweet 
wine,  and  another  peck  of  flowers, 
and  put  all  together  into  a  glass 
still.  Let  it  distil  on  white  sugar 
candy,  with  the  addition  of  a  little 
ambergris. 

SPIRITS  OF  LAVENDER.  Take 
fourteen  pounds  of  lavender  flowers, 
ten  gallons  and  a  half  of  rectified 
spirits  of  wine,  and  one  gallon  of 
water.  Draw  off  ten  gallons  by  a 
gentle  fire,  or  which  is  much  better, 
by  a  sand-bath  heat.  To  convert 
this  into  the  red  liquid  known  by 
the  name  of  compound  lavender 
spirits,  take  of  the  above  lavender 
spirits  two  gallons,  of  Hungary  wa- 
ter one  gallon,  cinnamon  and  nut- 
megs three  ounces  each,  and  of  red 
saunders  one  ounce.  Digest  the 
whole  for  three  days  in  a  gentle  heat. 


SPL 


SPO 


a»d  then  filtre  it  for  use.  Some  add 
saftVon,  musk,  and  amberg^ris,  of 
each  half  a  scruple  ;  but  these  are 
now  generally  omitted. 

SPIRITS  bF  SAFFRON.  Pick 
eight  ounces  of  English  saffron  very 
clean,  cut  it  fine,  and  steep  it  twenty- 
four  hours  in  a  gallon  of  the  best 
white  wine.  Put  it  into  an  alembic 
with  three  gallons  of  water,  draw  it 
off  gently  so  long  as  the  saffron 
tastes,  and  sweeten  it  with  white 
sugar  candy.  Dissolve  the  candy 
in  some  of  the  weaker  extract,  after 
the  stronger  part  is  drawn  off,  by 
setting  it  on  the  fire,  and  then  mix 
the  whole  together. 

SPITS.  Roasting  spits  require 
to  be  kept  bright  and  clean,  and 
should  be  scoured  with  nothing  but 
sand  and  water.  If  they  are  wiped 
clean,  as  soon  as  the  meat  is  drawn 
from  them,  and  while  they  are  hot, 
a  very  little  cleaning  will  be  neces- 
sary. A  very  useful  kind  of  spit  is 
sold  at  the  ironmongers,  which  sus- 
tains the  meat  without  the  necessity 
of  passing  it  through,  which  is  much 
to  be  preferred. 

SPITCHCOCK  EELS.  Take  one 
or  two  large  eels,  leave  the  skin  on, 
cut  them  iuto  pieces  of  three  inches 
long,  open  them  on  the  belly  side, 
and  clean  them  nice'ly.  Wipe  them 
dry,  smear  them  over  with  egg,  and 
strew  on  both  sides  chopped  pars- 
ley, pepper  and  palt ;  a  very  little 
sage,  and  a  bit  of  mace  pounded  fine 
and  mixed  with  the  seasoning.  Rub 
the  gridiron  with  a  bit  of  suet,  broil 
the  fish  of  a  fine  colour,  and  serve 
with  anchovy  and  butter  sauce. 

SPLINTERS.  To  run  splinters, 
prickles  or  thorns,  such  as  those  of 
roses,  thistles,  or  chesnuts,  into  the 
hands,  feet,  or  legs,  is  a  very  com- 
mon accident;  and  provided  any 
such  substance  is  immediately  ex- 
tracted, it  is  seldom  attended  with 
any  bad  consequences.  But  the 
more  certainly  to  prevent  any  ill  ef- 
fects, a  comprfess  of  iinen  dipped  in 
warm  Winter,  nlay  lie  a])plied  to  the 


part,  or  it  may  be  bathed  a  little 
while  in  warm  water.  If  the  thorn 
or  splinter  cannot  be  extracted  di- 
rectly, or  if  any  part  of  it  be  left  in, 
it  causes  an  inflammation,  and  no- 
thing but  timely  precaution  will  pre- 
vent its  coming  to  an  abscess.  A 
plaster  of  shoemaker's  wax  spread 
upon  leather,  draws  these  wounds 
remarkably  well.  When  it  is  known 
that  any  part  of  it  remains,  an  ex- 
pert surgeon  would  open  the  place 
and  take  it  out ;  but  if  it  be  unob- 
served, as  will  sometimes  happen, 
when  the  thorn  or  splinter  is  very 
smail,  till  the  inflammation  begins, 
and  no  advice  can  be  at  once  pro- 
cured, Ihe  steam  of  water  should  be 
applied  to  it  at  first,  and  then  a 
poultice  of  bread  and  milk,  with  a 
few  drops  of  peruvian  balsam,  it 
is  absolutely  necessary  that  the  in- 
jured part  should  be  kept  in  the 
easiest  posture,  and  as  still  as  pos- 
sible. If  this  does  not  soon  succeed, 
good  advice  must  be  obtained  with- 
out delay,  as  an  accident  of  this 
kind  neglected,  or  improperly  treat- 
ed, may  be  the  occasion  of  losing  a 
limb.  In  this  and  all  cases  of  in- 
flammation, a  forbearance  from  ani- 
mal food,  and  fermented  Hquors,  is 
alwavs  advisable. 

SPONGE  CAKE.  Weigh  ten 
eggs,  add  their  weight  in  very  fine 
sugar,  and  of  flour  the  weight  of  six 
eggs.  Beat  the  yolks  with  the  flour, 
and  the  whites  alone,  to  a  very  stiff 
froth.  Mix  by  degrees  the  whites 
and  the  flour  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients, beat  them  well  half  an  hour, 
and  bake  the  cake  an  hour  in  a  quick 
oven. — Another,  without  butter. 
Dry  a  pound  of  flour,  and  a  pound 
and  a  quarter  of  sugar.  Grate  a 
lemon,  add  a  spoonful  of  brandy, 
and  beat  the  whole  together  with 
the  hand  for  an  hour.  Bake  the 
cake  in  a  buttered  pan,  in  a  quick 
oven.  Sweetmeats  may  be  added 
if  approved. 

SPOONMEATS  FOR  INFANTS. 
It  is  something  more  than  a  human 
387 


SPO 


SPO 


axfcni,  that  milk  is  for  babes ;  and 
as  this  forms  the  basis  of  nearly  all 
the  food  from  which  their  nourish- 
ment is  derived,  it  is  necessary  to 
observe,  that  the  best  way  of  using 
it  is  without  either  skimming  or 
boiling  it.  The  cream  is  the  most 
nutritious  balsamic  part  of  milk,  and 
to  deprive  it  of  this  is  to  render  it 
less  nourishing,  and  less  easy  of  di- 
gestion, than  in  its  pure  state.  In 
some  particular  cases  skimmed  milk 
may  be  preferable,  but  it  may  be 
adopted  as  a  general  rule,  that  new 
milk  is  the  wholesomest  and  the  best. 
If  it  stands  any  time  before  it  is 
used,  instead  of  taking  off  the  cream, 
it  should  be  mixed  in  with  the  milk. 
Boiling  the  milk,  if  it  be  only  a  little, 
fixes  it,  and  entirely  alters  its  qua- 
lities. As  a  proof  of  this,  it  will 
not  afterwards  afford  any  cream,  but 
merely  a  thin  skin.  In  this  slate  it 
is  hard  of  digestion,  and  therefore 
apt  to  occasion  obstructions.  It  is 
most  proper  for  food  in  its  natural 
state,  or  when  only  scalded. — One 
of  the  first  and  simplest  preparations 
for  infants  is  Bread  Pap,  made  by 
pouring  scalding  water  on  thin  slices 
of  good  white  bread,  and  letting  it 
stand  uncovered  till  it  cools.  The 
water  is  then  drained  off,  the  bread 
bruised  fine,  and  mixed  with  as  much 
new  milk  as  will  make  it  of  a  tolera- 
ble consistence.  It  is  then  warm 
enough  for  use,  without  setting  it 
upon  the  fire.  Sugar  is  very  com- 
monly put  into  this  pap,  but  it  is 
much  better  without  it.  The  palate 
of  the  child  will  not  require  sugar 
in  any  kind  of  food,  till  habit  makes 
it  familiar.— Egg  Pap  is  another 
suitable  article  for  young  children. 
Set  a  quart  of  spring  water  on  a 
clear  brisk  fire.  Mix  two  spoonfuls 
of  fresh  fine  flour  with  the  yolks  of 
two  or  three  eggs  well  beaten,  add- 
ing a  little  cold  water.  When  the 
water  is  ready  to  boil,  stir  in  the 
batter  before  it  boils,  till  of  a  suf- 
ficient thickness.  Then  take  it  oflf 
the  fire,  add  a  little  salt,  pour  it  into 
388 


a  basin,  and  let  it  cool  of  itself  till 
it  become  about  as  warm  as  milk 
from  the  cow.     If  eggs  cannot  be 
procured,  a  small  piece  of  butter 
may  be  added   with   the  salt,  and 
stirred  in  gently  till  well  mixed,  to 
prevent  its   oiling.     Eggs   however 
are  to  be  preferred.     This  food  is 
extremely  wholesome,   aft'ords  real 
nourishment,  opens  all  the  passages, 
breeds  good  blood  and  lively  spirits, 
is  pleasant  to  the  palate,  and  grate- 
ful to  the  stomach.     The  frequent 
use  of  it  purifies  the  blood  and  all 
the  humours,   prevents  windy  dis- 
tempers and  griping  pain,  both  of 
the  stomach  and  bowels.     From  all 
the   ingredients   bearing   a    resem- 
blance to  each  other,  no  predomi- 
nant quality  prevails,  so  that  it  may 
justly  claim  the  first  place  amongst 
all  spoonmeats  or  paps,  and  as  food 
for  infants  it  is  next  to  the  milk  of 
the  breast.  In  some  cases  it  is  much 
better,  on  account  of  the  various 
diseases  to  which  suckling  women 
are  subject,  and  the  improper  food 
in  which  they  too  frequently  indulge. 
No  other  ingredients  should   how- 
ever be  added  to  this  kind  of  food, 
such   as   sugar,    spices,    or    fruits, 
which  tend  only  to  vitiate  the  diet, 
and  to  render  it  less  nutritious.  This 
and  other  sorts  of  spoonmeat  should 
be  made  rather  thin  than  otherwise, 
and  abounding  with  liquid,  whether 
milk  or  water.     All  porridges  and 
spoonmeats  that  are  made  thin,  and 
quickly     prepared,     are      sweeter, 
brisker  on  the  palate,  and  easier  of 
digestion,    than    those    which    are 
thick,  and  long  in  preparing.    Food 
should  never  be  gi  en  to  children 
more  than  milk  warm,  and  the  pro- 
per way  to  cool  it  is  by  letting  it 
stand  uncovered  to  cool  itself;  for 
much  stirring  alters  the  composition, 
and  takes  off  the  sweetness.  Cover- 
ing it  down  too,  keeps  in  the  fumes 
that  ought  to  go  off,  and  by  exclud- 
ing the  air,  renders  it  less  pure. — 
Flour  Pap.     To  two  thirds  of  new 
railk,  after  it  has  stood  five  or  six 


SPO 


SPO 


hours  from  the  time  of  milking,  add 
one  third  of  spring  water,  and  set  it 
on  a  quick  clear  fire.  Make  a  bat- 
ter of  milk  and  fine  flour,  and  just 
as  the  milk  and  water  is  ready  to 
boil,  pour  in  the  batter,  and  stir  it 
a  few  minutes.  When  it  is  ready  to 
boil  again,  take  it  off,  add  a  little 
salt,  and  let  it  stand  to  cool.  A 
good  spoonful  of  flour  is  sufficient 
to  thicken  a  pint  of  milk,  or  milk 
and  water.  This  will  make  it  about 
the  thickness  of  common  milk  por- 
ridge, which  is  what  will  eat  the 
sweetest,  and  be  the  easiest  of  di- 
gestion. This  kind  of  food  affords 
substantial  nourishment,  it  neither 
binds  nor  loosens  the  body,  but 
keeps  it  in  proper  order,  nourishes 
the  blood,  and  tends  to  produce  a 
lively  disposition.  Pap  prepared 
in  this  way  is  far  more  friendly  to 
nature  than  in  the  common  way  of 
boiling,  and  may  be  constantly  eaten 
with  much  better  eff'ect,  and  without 
ever  tiring  or  cloying  the  stomach. 
— Oatmeal  Pap.  Mix  a  pint  of  milk 
and  water,  in  the  proportion  of  two 
thirds  milk  and  one  third  water, 
with  a  good  spoonful  of  oatmeal, 
but  it  is  best  not  to  be  too  thick. 
Set  it  in  a  saucepan  upon  a  quick 
clear  fire,  and  when  it  is  near  boil- 
ing take  it  off".  Pour  it  from  one 
basin  into  another,  backwards  and 
forwards  seven  or  eight  times,  which 
will  bring  out  the  fine  flour  of  the 
oatmeal,  and  incorporate  it  with 
the  milk.  Then  return  it  into  the 
saucepan,  set  it  upon  the  fire,  and 
when  it  is  again  ready  to  boil  take 
it  off",  and  let  it  stand  in  the  sauce- 
pan a  little  to  fine,  for  the  husky 
part  of  the  oatmeal  will  sink  to  the 
bottom.  When  settled,  pour  it  oflT 
into  a  basin,  add  a  little  salt,  and 
let  it  stand  to  cool.  This  is  an  ex- 
cellent pap,  very  congenial  to  a 
weak  constitution,  affording  good 
nourishment,  and  easy  of  digestion. 
— Water  Gruel.  Take  a  spoonful 
and  a  half  of  fresh  ground  oatmeal, 
mix  with  it  gradually  a  quart  of 


spring  water,  and  set  it  on  a  clear 
fire.  When  ready  to  boil  take  it  oflf, 
pour  it  from  one  basin  into  another, 
backwards  and  forwards  five  or  six 
times,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  again. 
Take  it  off"  again  just  before  it  boils, 
and  let  it  stand  a  little  time  in  the 
saucepan,  that  the  coarse  husks  of 
the  oatmeal  may  sink  to  the  bottom. 
Then  pour  it  out,  add  a  little  salt, 
and  let  it  stand  to  cool.  When  wa- 
ter gruel  is  made  with  grots,  it  must 
boil  gently  for  some  time.  The 
longer  it  boils  the  more  it  will  jelly ; 
but  moderation  must  be  observed  in 
this  respect,  for  if  it  be  very  long 
boiled  and  becomes  very  thick,  it 
will  be  flat  and  heavy.  A  mistaken 
idea  very  generally  prevails,  that 
water  gruel  is  not  nourishing  ;  on 
the  contrary,  it  is  a  light,  cleansing, 
nourishing  food,  good  either  in  sick- 
ness or  in  health,  both  for  old  and 
young. — Milk  Porridge.  Make  some 
water  gruel,  and  when  it  has  stood 
awhile  to  cool,  add  to  it  about  one 
third  part  of  new  milk  without  bo-il- 
ing.  It  may  be  eaten  with  or  with- 
out salt.  Milk  porridge  is  exceed- 
ingly cleansing  and  easy  of  digestion, 
and  is  agreeable  to  the  weakest 
stomach.  There  is  also  another  way 
of  making  it,  which  some  prefer. 
Stir  a  pint  of  water  gradually  into 
three  large  spoonfuls  of  fresh  oat- 
meal, let  it  stand  till  clear,  and  then 
pour  oflf  the  water.  Put  a  pint  of 
fresh  water  to  the  oatmeal,  stir  it 
up  well,  and  leave  it  till  the  next 
day.  Strain  oft*  the  liquor  through 
a  fine  sieve,  and  set  it  in  a  saucepan 
over  a  clear  brisk  fire.  Add  about 
half  the  quantity  of  milk  gradually 
while  it  is  warming,  and  when  it  is 
just  ready  to  boil  take  it  oflf,  pour 
it  into  a  basin,  add  a  little  salt,  and 
let  it  stand  to  cool.  This  as  well  as 
the  former  porridge  is  very  light, 
and  proper  for  weak  stomachs. — 
Indian  Arrow  Root  is  another  excel- 
lent preparation  for  children.  Put 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  the  powdered 
root  into  a  basin,  and  mix  with  it 
389 


SPO 


SPO 


as  much  cold  new  milk  as  will  make 
it  into  a  paste.  Pour  upon  this  half 
a  pint  of  milk  scalding-  hot,  stirring 
it  briskly  to  keep  it  smooth.  Set  it 
on  the  fire  till  it  is  ready  to  boil,  then 
take  it  off,  pour  it  into  a  basin,  and 
let  it  cool.  This  may  be  made  with 
water  instead  of  milk,  and  some 
cold  milk  mixed  with  it  afterwards  ; 
or  if  the  stomach  be  very  weak,  it 
will  be  best  without  any  milk  at  all. 
Great  care  must  be  taken  to  procure 
the  genuine  arrow  root,  which  makes 
a  very  strengthening  and  excellent 
food  for  infants  or  invalids. — Sago 
Jelly.  Soak  a  large  spoonful  of 
sago  for  an  hour  in  cold  water, 
then  pour  off  the  water,  add  a 
pint  of  fresh  water  to  the  sago,  and 
stew  it  gently  till  it  is  reduced  to 
about  half  the  quantity.  When  done, 
pour  it  into  a  basin,  and  let  it  cool. 
— Sago  with  Milk,  Prepare  a  large 
spoonful  of  sago  by  soaking  it  for 
an  hour  in  cold  water,  but  instead 
of  adding  water  afterwards,  put  in 
a  pint  and  a  half  of  new  milk.  Boil 
it  gently  till  reduced  to  about  half 
the  quantity,  then  pour  it  into  a  ba- 
sin, and  let  it  cool. — Tapioca  Jelly. 
Wash  two  good  spoonfuls  of  the 
large  sort  of  tapioca  in  cold  water, 
and  then  soak  it  in  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  water  for  four  hours.  Stew  it 
gently  in  the  same  water  till  it  is 
quite  clear.  Let  it  stand  to  cool 
after  it  is  poured  out  of  the  sauce- 
pan, and  use  it  either  with  or  with- 
out the  addition  of  a  little  new  milk. 
— Pearl  Barley  Gruel.  Put  two 
ounces  of  pearl  barley,  after  it  has 
been  well  washed,  into  a  quart  of 
water.  Simmer  it  gently  till  reduced 
lo  a  pint,  then  strain  it  through  a 
sieve,  and  let  it  cool. — Rice  Gruel. 
Soak  two  large  spoonfuls  of  rice  in 
cold  water  for  an  hour.  Pour  off 
the  water,  and  put  a  pint  and  a 
quarter  of  new  milk  to  the  rice. 
Stew  it  gently  till  the  rice  is  suf- 
ficiently tender  to  pulp  it  through 
a  sieve,  and  then  mix  the  pulp  into 
the  milk  that  the  rice  was  st(y\ed 


in.  Simmer  it  over  the  fire  for  ten 
minutes,  and  if  it  appear  too  thick, 
gradually  add  a  little  more  milk,  so 
as  not  to  damp  it  from  simmering. 
When  done,  pour  it  into  a  basin  to 
cool.— Rice  Milk.  To  four  large 
spoonfuls  of  whole  rice,  washed  very 
clean  in  cold  water,  add  a  quart  of 
new  milk,  and  stew  them  together 
very  gently  for  three  hours.  Let  it 
stand  in  a  basin  to  cool  before  it  is 
used.  Another  way  of  making  rice 
milk  is  boiling  the  rice  first  in  water, 
then  pouring  off  the  water,  and  boil- 
ing the  rice  with  milk.  A  better 
way  perhaps  is,  after  washing  the 
rice  well,  setting  it  over  the  fire  for 
half  an  hour  with  a  little  water  to 
break  it.  Add  a  little  at  a  time  some 
warm  milk,  till  it  is  sufficiently  done, 
and  of  a  proper  thickness.  Let  it 
simmer  slowly,  and  season  it  with 
salt  and  sugar  ;  but  for  children  the 
sugar  had  better  be  omitted. — 
Ground  Rice  Milk.  Mix  a  large 
spoonful  of  ground  rice  into  a  batter, 
with  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  new 
milk.  Set  a  pint  of  new  milk  on 
the  fire,  and  when  it  is  scalding  hot, 
stir  in  the  batter,  and  keep  it  on  the 
fire  till  it  thickens,  but  it  must  not 
boil.  It  should  be  carefully  stirred 
to  prevent  its  burning,  and  cooled 
by  standing  by  in  a  basin. — Millet 
Milk.  Wash  three  spoonfuls  of 
millet  seed  in  coid  water,  and  put 
it  into  a  quart  of  new  milk.  Sim- 
mer it  gently  till  it  becomes  mo- 
derately thick,  and  cool  it  in  a  basin 
till  wanted  for  use.  All  those  pre- 
j)arations  which  require  some  time 
in  doing,  also  require  the  precautioa 
of  being  carefully  stirred,  to  prevent 
their  burning. — Drinks  for  young 
children,  in  addition  to  their  diet, 
are  best  made  of  milk  and  water, 
whey,  barley  water,  pearl  barley 
water,  apple  water,  and  toast  and 
water.  For  Milk  and  Water,  put 
one  third  of  new  milk  to  two  thirds 
of  spring  water.  This  is  best  drunk 
cold  ;  but  if  it  must  be  warmed,  it 
should  be  by  putting  warm  water  to 


SPO 


SPR 


cold  fiiilk.  It  ought  not  to  be  made 
more  than  milk  warm.  For  Whey, 
take  a  quart  of  new  milk  before  it  is 
cold,  and  put  in  as  much  rennet  as 
will  turn  it  to  a  clear  whey.  Let  it 
stand  till  it  is  properly  turned,  and 
pour  it  off  through  a  cheesecloth 
without  pressing  the  curd,  that  the 
whey  may  be  the  purer.  It  may  be 
drunk  cold,  or  just  warmed  by  set- 
ting it  before  the  fire  for  a  little 
while.  If  new  milk  cannot  be  had, 
other  milk  must  be  wanted  to  the 
degree  of  new  milk. — Barley  Water 
is  made  of  a  handful  of  common 
barley  well  washed,  and  simmered 
in  three  pints  of  water,  till  of  a  pro- 
per thickness  for  use ;  but  the  longer 
the  barley  boils,  the  thinner  the  li- 
quor will  become.  Pearl  Barley 
Water  is  made  of  an  ounce  of  pearl 
barley,  heated  in  half  a  pint  of  wa- 
ter over  the  fire  in  order  to  clean  it. 
The  water  is  then  poured  off,  and  a 
quart  of  fresh  water  added  to  the 
pearl  barley.  Simmer  it  half  an 
hour,  and  if  it  appears  too  thick, 
add  more  water,  but  let  it  be  kept 
warm,  as  any  quantity  of  cold  water 
would  damp  it  too  suddenly,  and 
thus  tend  to  spoil  it.  Both  this  and 
barley  water  may  be  used  cold,  or 
milk  warm. — Apple  Water.  Slice 
into  a  jug  two  or  three  sound  ripe 
apples,  and  pour  on  them  a  quart  of 
scalding  hot  water.  Let  it  stand  to 
cool,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use.  The 
apples  should  not  be  pared,  as  it 
takes  off  their  spirit. — Toast  and 
Water  is  made  of  a  slice  of  white 
bread  toasted  quite  dry,  and  of  a 
dark  brown  colour.  It  is  then  put 
into  a  jug,  and  spring  water  poured 
upon  it.  After  an  hour  it  is  fit  for 
use.  As  all  these  preparations,  both 
of  drinks  and  spoonmeats,  become 
flat  and  good  for  little  by  long  stand- 
ing, it  is  better  to  make  only  such 
quantities  of  them  at  a  time  as  will 
soon  be  used.  When  they  are  warm- 
ed up,  no  more  should  be  done  at 
once  than  is  just  sufficient  for  the 
occasion,  as  repeated  warming  in- 


jures the  nutritious  quality  of  every' 
thing.  When  it  can  be  avoided  H 
is  better  not  to  set  things  on  the 
fire  to  warm  them  up,  but  to  place 
them  before  or  on  the  side  of  the 
fire.  Care  however  must  be  taken 
not  to  let  them  dry  and  scorch,  as 
it  makes  them  very  strong  and  un- 
wholesome. Some  earthenware  ves- 
sel should  be  used  for  this  purpose, 
as  less  liable  to  produce  an  inj uri- 
nous effect.  A  very  good  method 
of  warming  things  is  by  setting  them 
in  a  basin  over  boiling  water,  or  by 
placing  them  in  it. 

SPRAINS.  These  generally  pro- 
ceed from  some  external  injury,  at- 
tended with  pain,  swelling,  and  in- 
flammation. A  fomentation  of  vine- 
gar, or  ca^iy2hQXated.sjyiriU  ofvi^ 
if  applied  immediately,  will  gene- 
rally be  sufficient :  if  not,  a  few 
drops  of  laudanum  should  beaddeS. 
The  Tomenitatibn' shoijTd~  be  "  fre-" 
quently  renewed,  and  the  sprained 
part  kept  in  a  state  of  rest  and  re- 
laxation. 

SPRATS.  When  quite  good  and 
fresh,  their  gills  are  of  a  fine  red, 
their  eyes  and  whole  body  beauti- 
fully bright.  After  being  scaled 
and  cleaned,  they  should  be  fasten- 
ed in  rows  by  a  skewer  run  through 
the  heads  ;  then  broiled,  and  served 
up  hot  and  hot. 

SPRATS  LIKE  ANCHOVIES. 
Salt  them  well,  and  let  the  salt 
drain  from  them.  In  twenty-four 
hours  wipe  them  dry,  but  do  not 
wash  them.  Mix  four  ounces  of 
common  salt,  an  ounce  of'bay  salt, 
an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  sal-prunella,  and  half  a 
tea-spoonful  of  cochineal,  all  in  the 
finest  powder.  Sprinkle  it  amongst 
three  quarts  of  the  fish,  and  pack 
them  in  two  stone  jars.  Keep  them 
in  a  cool  place,  fastened  down  with 
a  bladder.  These  artificial  ancho- 
vies are  pleasant  on  bread  and  but- 
ter, but  the  genuine  should  be  used 
for  sauce. 

SPRING    FRUIT    PUDDING 
891 


SPR 


STA 


Peel  and  wash  four  dozen  sticks  of 
rhubarb,  put  them  into  the  stewpan 
with  a  lemon,  a  little  cinnamon,  and 
sweeten  the  whole  with  moist  sugar. 
Set  it  over  the  fire,  and  reduce  it  to 
a  marmalade.  Pass  it  through  a 
hair  sieve,  add  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs  and  one  white,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  fresh  butter,  half  a  nut- 
meg, and  the  peel  of  a  lemon  grated. 
Beat  all  well  together,  line  the  in- 
side of  a  pie  dish  with  good  puff 
paste,  put  in  the  pudding,  and  take 
it  half  an  hour. 

SPRING  SOUP.  Put  a  pint  of 
peas  into  a  saucepan  with  some 
chervil,  purslain,  lettuce,  sorrel, 
parsley,  three  or  four  onions,  and  a 
piece  of  butter.  Shake  them  over 
the  fire  a  few  minutes,  add  warm 
water  in  proportion  to  the  vegeta- 
bles, and  stew  them  till  they  are 
well  done.  Strain  off  the  soup,  and 
pulp  the  vegetables  through  a  tam- 
mis  or  sieve.  Heat  the  pulp  with 
three  parts  of  the  soup,  mix  six 
yolks  of  eggs  with  the  remainder  of 
it,  and  thicken  it  over  the  fire. 
When  ready  to  serve,  add  this  to 
the  soup,  and  season  the  whole 
with  salt. 

SPROUTS.  Before  the  sprouts 
of  greens  are  boiled,  trim  and  wash 
them  very  nicely,  and  drain  them 
in  a  cullender.  Then  put  them  into 
boiling  water,  with  some  salt  thrown 
in,  and  sprinkle  a  little  more  upon 
the  sprouts.  Boil  them  very  fast, 
and  clear  off  any  scum  that  may 
arise.  When  the  stalks  are  quite 
tender,  drain  the  sprouts  off  di- 
rectly into  a  cullender,  or  they  will 
lose  both  their  flavour  and  colour. 
Serve  them  up  laid  neatly  in  the 
dish  with  a  fork,  as  that  will  not 
break  them  like  a  spoon.  Borecole 
and  Brussel  sprouts,  like  all  the 
cabbage  species,  should  be  boiled 
in  plenty  of  water,  changing  it  when 
about  half  done,  and  boiling  them 
well. 

SPRUCE  BEER.  Pour  sixteen 
gallons  of  warm  water  into  a  barrel, 
382 


with  twelve  pounds  of  molasses, 
and  half  a  pound  of  the  essence  of 
spruce.  When  cool,  add  a  pint  of 
yeast,  stir  it  well  for  two  or  three 
days,  and  put  it  into  stone  bottles. 
Wire  down  the  corks,  pack  the  bot- 
tles in  saw  dust,  and  the  liquor  will 
ripen  in  about  a  fortnight. 

SQUAB  PIE.  Prepare  apples  as 
for  other  pies,  and  lay  them  in  rows 
with  mutton  chops.  Shred  some 
onion,  and  sprinkle  it  among  them, 
and  also  some  sugar. — Another. 
Make  a  good  crust,  and  sheet  your 
dish  all  over  ;  lay  a  layer  of  pip- 
pins, and  strew  sugar  over  them  ; 
cut  a  loin  of  mutton  into  steaks, 
season  them  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
lay  a  layer  of  steaks,  then  pippins  ; 
then  lay  some  onions  sliced  thin  on 
the  apples,  then  the  rest  of  your 
mutton,  and  apples  and  onions  over 
all ;  pour  in  a  pint  of  water,  and 
lid  your  pve  ;  let  it  be  well  baked. 

STAFFORDSHIRE  BEEF 
STEAKS.  Beat  them  a  little  with 
a  rollingpin,  then  flour  and  season, 
and  fry  them  of  a  fine  light  brown, 
with  sliced  onions.  Lay  the  steaks 
into  a  stewpan,  and  pour  over  them 
as  much  boiling  water  as  will  serve 
for  sauce.  Stew  them  very  gently 
for  half  an  hour,  and  add  a  spoon- 
ful of  ketchup  or  walnut  liquor,  be- 
fore they  are  served  up. 

STAFFORDSHIRE  SYLLABUB. 
Put  into  a  bowl  a  pint  of  cider,  and 
a  glass  of  brandy,  with  sugar  and 
nutmeg.  Pour  into  it  some  warm 
milk,  from  a  large  tea-pot,  held  up 
high,  and  moved  over  it. 

STAINS  BY  ACIDS.  Wet  the 
injured  part,  and  lay  on  some  salt 
of  wormwood  ;  the»  rub  it,  without 
diluting  it  with  more  water.  Or  let 
the  cloth  imbibe  a  little  water  with- 
out dipping,  and  hold  the  part  over 
a  lighted  match  at  a  due  distance. 
The  spots  will  be  removed  by  the 
sulphureous  gas.  Another  way  ia 
to  tie  up  some  pearl  ash  in  the  stain- 
ed part,  then  scrape  some  soap  into 
cold  soft  water  to  make  a  lather. 


STA 


STA 


and  boil  the  linen  till  the  stain  dis- 
appears. 

STAINS  IN  MAHOGANY.     If 

any  kind  of  furniture  get  stained  with 
ink,  dilute  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  oil 
of  vitriol  with  a  large  spoonful  of 
water,  and  touch  the  stained  part 
with  a  feather  dipped  in  the  liquid. 
It  must  be  watched,  and  not  suffered 
to  remain  too  long,  or  it  will  leave 
a  white  mark.  It  is  better  to  rub 
it  quick,  and  to  moisten  it  again,  if 
the  stain  be  not  entirely  removed. 

STAINING  OF  BONE.  This 
article  must  first  be  prepared,  by 
being  steeped  for  several  days  in  a 
mixture  of  roche  alum,  vitriol,  ver- 
digris, and  copper  filings,  infused  in 
white  wine  vinegar.  When  the  in- 
gredients are  dissolved,  the  mixture 
may  be  boiled  with  the  bone  in  it, 
and  it  will  take  a  fine  green  colour. 
By  infusing  brazil  wood,  French 
berries,  or  indigo  in  the  vinegar,  with 
a  little  roche  alum,  either  red,  yel- 
low, or  blue  may  be  produced.  Ei- 
ther bone,  ivory,  or  wood,  may  be 
coloured  in  this  manner. 

STAINING  OF  PARCHMENT. 
Paper  or  parchment  may  be  stained 
of  a  green  colour,  by  gradually  dis- 
solving some  copper  filings  in  aqua- 
fortis, or  the  spirits  of  salt,  putting 
in  the  filings  till  the  ebullition  ceases. 
A  solution  of  verdigris  in  vinegar,  or 
the  crystals  of  verdigris  in  water, 
will  answer  the  same  purpose.  A 
fine  crimson  stain  may  be  produced 
by  a  tincture  of  the  Indian  lake,  made 
by  infusing  the  lake  several  days  in 
spirits  of  wine,  and  pouring  off  the 
tincture  from  the  dregs.  A  beautif  ,1 
yellow  may  be  formed  from  the  tinc- 
ture of  turm.eric,  made  in  the  same 
way.  If  the  colours  be  wanted  of 
a  deeper  cast,  arnatto  or  dragon's 
blood  may  be  added  to  the  tincture. 

STAINING  OF  WOOD.  To  stain 
wood  of  a  mahogany  colour,  put  it 
into  a  mixture  of  oil  of  turpentine 
and  pounded  dragon's  blood,  and 
let  it  stand  an  hour  over  a  slow  fire. 
Whien  taken  off  the  fire,  the  wood 


may  remain  in  the  liquor  all  night. 
The  dye  may  be  made  stronger  or 
weaker,  by  using  more  or  less  of 
dragon's  blood,  and  by  a  greater  or 
less  degree  of  digestion  and  boiling. 
The  best  wood  for  this  purpose  is 
plane  tree,  because  it  may  easily  be 
sawn  and  polished,  and  is  beautifully 
veined  and  spotted.  To  stain  wood 
a  fine  black,  drop  a  little  oil  of  vitriol 
into  a  small  quantity  of  water,  rub 
it  on  the  wood,  and  hold  it  to  the 
fire.  It  will  then  become  a  fine  black, 
and  receive  a  beautiful  polish. 

STALKS  OF  BEET  LEAVES. 
Trim  and  well  wash  the  stalks  of 
green  and  white  beet  leaves,  and  boil 
them  in  water,  moving  them  fre- 
quently, to  prevent  the  upper  ones 
from  turning  black.  When  done 
enough,  drain  them  in  a  cullender. 
Make  a  white  sauce  with  a  little 
flour  and  water,  a  piece  of  butter, 
some  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  taste  of 
vinegar.  Thicken  this  over  the  fire, 
and  put  in  the  stalks  to  stew  gently 
for  a  few  minutes,  to  give  them  a 
flavour.  If  the  butter  oils,  it  is  a 
sign  that  the  sauce  is  too  thick.  In 
this  case  add  another  spoonful  or 
two  of  water,  and  shake  the  stewpan 
till  the  sauce  recovers  it  appearance. 

STARCH  is  a  substance  which  is 
extracted  from  wheaten  flour,  by 
washing  it  in  water.  All  farinaceous 
seeds,  and  the  roots  of  most  vegeta- 
bles, aftbrd  this  substance  in  a  greater 
or  less  degree  ;  but  it  is  most  easily 
obtained  from  the  flour  of  wheat,  by 
moistening  any  quantity  thereof  with 
a  little  water,  and  kneading  it  with 
the  hand  into  a  tough  paste  :  this 
being  washed  M'ith  water,  by  letting 
fall  upon  it  a  very  slender  stream, 
the  water  will  be  rendered  turbid  as 
it  runs  off,  in  consequence  of  the 
fecula  or  starch  which  it  extracts 
from  the  flour,  and  which  will  sub- 
side when  the  water  is  allowed  to 
stand  at  rest.  The  starch  so  ob- 
tained, when  dried  in  the  sun,  or  by 
a  stove,  is  usually  concreted  info 
small  masses  of  a  long  figure  and 

3  E  393 


STA 


ST  A 


columnar  shape,  which  have  a  fine 
white  colour,  scarcely  any  smell,  and 
very  little  taste.     If  kept  dry,  starch 
in  this  state  continues  a  long  time 
uninjured,  although  exposed  to  the 
air.     It  is  not  soluble  in  cold  water ; 
but  forms  a  thick  paste  with  boiling- 
hot  water,  and  when  this  paste  is 
allowed  to  cool,   it  becomes   semi- 
transparent  and  gelatinous,  and  being 
dried,   becomes   brittle,   and  some- 
what resembles  gum.      Starch,  al- 
though found  in  all  nutritive  grains, 
is  only  perfect  when  they  have  at- 
tained maturity,  for  before  this  it  is 
in  a  state  approaching  to  mucilage, 
and  so  mixed  with  saccharine  matter 
and  essential  oils,  that  it  cannot  be 
extracted  in  sufficient  purity  to  con- 
crete into  masses.     Wheat,  or  such 
parts  of  it  as  are  not  used  for  human 
food,  are  usually  employed  for  ma- 
nufacturing starch,  such  as  the  refuse 
wheat  and  bran  ;  but  when  the  finest 
starch  is  required,  good  grain  must 
be  used.     This,  being  well  cleaned, 
and   sometimes  coarsely  bruised,  is 
put  into  wooden  vessels  full  of  water 
to  ferment :  to  assist  the  fermenta- 
tion, the  vessels  are  exposed  to  the 
greatest  heat  of  the  sun,   and  the 
water  is  changed  twice  a  day,  during 
eight  or  twelve  days,  according  to 
the  season.     When  the  grain  bursts 
easily  under  the  finger,  and  gives 
out    a    milky    white    liquor    when 
squeezed,   it  is  judged  to  be  suf- 
ficiently softened  and  fermented.     In 
this  state,  the  grains  are  taken  out 
of  the  water  by  a  sieve,  and  put  into 
a  canvas  sack,  and  the  husks  are  se- 
parated and  rubbed  off,  by  beating 
and  rubbing  the  sack  upon  a  plank  : 
the  sack  is  then  put  into  a  tub  filled 
with    cold    water,    and  trodden  or 
beaten  till  the  water  becomes  milky 
and  turbid,  from  the  starch  which  it 
takes  up  from  the  grain.     A  scum 
sometimes  swims  upon  the  surface 
of  the  water,  which  must  be  carefully 
removed ;  the  water  is  then  run  off 
through  a  fine  sieve  into  a  settling- 
TC^sel,  and  fresh  \vater   is   poured 
3J)4 


upon  the  grains,  two  or  three  times, 
till  it  will  not  extract  an^  more  starch, 
or  become   coloured   by  the  grain. 
The    water   in    the    settling-vessels 
being  left  at  rest,  precipitates  the 
starch  which  it  held  suspended ;  and 
to  get  rid  of  the  saccharine  matter, 
which  was  also  dissolved  by  the  wa- 
ter, the  vessels  are  exposed  to  the 
sun,  which  soon  produces  the  acetous 
fermentation,   and    takes    up    such 
matter  as  renders  the  starch  more 
pure  and  white.     During  this  pro- 
cess, the  starch  for  sale  in  the  shops 
receives  its  colour,  which  consists 
of  smalt  mixed  with  water  and   a 
small  quantity  of  alum,  and  is  tho- 
roughly incorporated  with  the  starch ; 
but  this  starch  is  unfit  for  medicinal 
purposes.    When  the  water  becomes 
completely  sour,  it  is  poured  gently 
ofl"  from  the  starch,  which  is  washed 
several  times  afterwards  with  clean 
water,  and  at  last  is  placed  to  drain 
upon  linen  cloths  supported  by  hur- 
dles, and  the  water  drips  through, 
leaving  the  starch  upon  the  cloths, 
in  which  it  is  pressed  or  wrung,  to 
extract  as  much  as  possible  of  the 
water  ;  and  the  remainder  is  evapo- 
rated,   by   cutting   the   starch   into 
pieces,   which  are  laid   up  in   airy 
places,  upon  a  floor  of  plaster  or  of 
slightly  burnt  bricks,  until  it  becomes 
completely  dried  from  all  moisture, 
partly  by  the  access  of  warm  air,  and 
partly    by    the   floor   imbibing    the 
moisture.     In  winter  time,  the  heat 
of  a  stove  must  be  employed  to  efl'ect 
the  drying.     Lastly,  the    pieces  of 
dried  starch  are  scraped,  to  remove 
the  outside  crust,  which  makes  infe- 
rior  starch,   and    these   pieces  are 
broken  into  smaller  pieces  for  sale. 
The  grain  which  remains  in  the  sack 
after  the  starch  is  extracted,  contains 
the  husks  and  the  glutinous  part  of 
the  wheat,  which  are  found  very  nu- 
tritious food  for  cattle.     The  French 
manufacturers,   according  to   "  Les 
Arts  et  Metiers,"  pursue  a  more  eco- 
nomical method,  as  they  are  enabled, 
by  employing  an  acid  water  for  the 


ST  A 


STA 


fermentation  in  the  first  instance,  to 
use  the  most  inferior  wheat,  and  the 
bran  or  husks  of  wheat.  This  water 
they  prepare,  by  putting  a  pailful  of 
warm  water  into  a  tub,  with  about 
two  pounds  of  leaven,  such  as  some 
bakers  use  to  make  their  dough  rise 
or  ferment.  The  water  stands  two 
days,  and  is  then  stirred  up,  and  half 
a  pailful  of  warm  water  added  to  it; 
then  bciiig  left  to  settle  till  it  is  clear, 
it  is  poured  off  for  use.  To  use  this 
water  in  the  fermentation  of  the  ma- 
terials, a  quantity  of  it  is  poured  into 
a  tub,  and  about  as  much  fair  water 
is  poured  upon  it  as  will  fill  the  tub 
half  full :  the  remainder  of  the  tub 
is  then  lilled  up  with  the  materials, 
which  are  one  half  refuse  wheat, 
and  the  other  half  bran.  In  this  tub 
it  continues  to  steep  and  ferment 
during  ten  days,  or  less,  according 
to  the  strength  of  the  leaven-water, 
and  according  to  the  disposition  of 
the  weather  for  fermentation.  When 
the  materials  have  been  sutficiently 
steeped,  or  fermented,  an  unctuous 
matter,  which  is  the  oil  of  the  grain, 
will  be  seen  swimming  on  the  sur- 
face, having  been  thrown  up  by  the 
fermentation.  This  must  l>e  scum- 
med off;  and  the  fermented  grain, 
being  taken  out  of  the  tub,  is  put 
into  a  fine  hair  sieve,  placed  over  a 
settling-tub,  when  fair  water  is  pour- 
ed upon  it,  and  washed  through  the 
sieve  into  the  tub ;  by  which  means 
the  starch  is  carried  through  the 
sieve  with  the  water,  of  which  about 
six  times  the  quantity  of  the  grain 
are  used.  The  water  stands  in  the 
settling  tub  for  a  day,  and  becomes 
clear  at  top ;  when  it  is  carefully 
laded  out  of  the  tub,  leaving  at  the 
bottom  a  white  sediment,  which  is 
the  starch.  The  water  which  is 
taken  off  is  sour,  and  is  called  sure 
water  :  this  is  the  proper  leaven  for 
the  first  steeping  of  the  ma^rials. 
The  starch  now  obtained  must  be 
rendered  marketable ;  for  which  pur- 
]^ose.  as  much  water  is  poured  upon 
U  as  will  enable  it  to  be  pounded  and 


broken  up  with  a  shovel,  and  thea. 
the  tub  is  filled  up  with  fair  water. 
Two  days  after  this,  the  water  is 
laded  out  from  the  tub,  and  the  starch 
appears  in  the  bottom,  but  covered 
over  with  a  dark-coloured  and  infe- 
rior kind  of  starch,  which  is  taken 
off,  and  employed  for  fattening  hogs. 
The  remainder  of  the  sediment,  which 
is  good  starch,  is  washed  several 
times,  to  remove  all  the  infeiior 
starch  ;  and  when  this  is  done,  about 
four  inches  of  thick  starch  should 
be  found  at  the  bottom  of  each  tub  : 
but  the  quantity  varies,  according 
to  the  goodness  of  the  meal  or  bran 
which  has  been  used.  It  is  evident 
that  the  refuse  wheat,  when  employed 
for  making  starch,  ought  to  aftord 
more,  the  whole  being  used,  than 
the  bran  or  husks  ;  but  the  starch  so 
extracted  is  always  of  an  inferior 
quality  to  that  which  is  extracted 
from  the  bran  of  good  wheat,  parti- 
cularly in  the  whiteness  of  its  colour. 
The  starch  in  the  different  tubs  is 
brought  together  into  one,  and  there 
worked  up  with  as  much  water  as 
will  dissolve  it  into  a  thin  paste, 
which  is  put  into  a  silk  sieve,  and 
strained  through  with  fresh  water. 
This  water  is  settled  in  a  tub,  and 
afterwards  poured  off,  but  before  it 
is  so  completely  settled  as  to  lose  all 
its  white  colour  :  this  renders  the 
starch  which  is  deposited,  still  finer 
and  whiter  ;  and  the  starch  which  is 
dejjosited  by  the  water  so  poured 
oil*,  is  of  a  more  common  quality. 
The  starch,  thus  purified,  is  taken 
out  of  the  bottom  of  the  tubs,  «and 
put  into  wicker-baskets,  about  eigh- 
teen inches  long  and  ten  deep,  round- 
ed at  the  corners,  and  lined  with 
linen  cloths,  which  are  not  fastened 
to  the  baskets.  The  water  drips 
from  the  starch  through  the  cloths 
for  a  day,  and  the  baskets  are  then 
carried  up  to  apartments  at  the  top 
of  the  house,  where  the  floor  is  made 
of  vei-y  clean  white  plaster ;  and  the 
windows  are  thrown  open,  to  admit 
a  current  of  air.  Here  the  hasliet^ 
39i 


ST  A 


ST  A 


are  turned  downwards  upon  the  plas- 
ter-floor, and  the  linen  cloths,  not 
being  fastened  to  the  baskets,  follow 
the  starch,  and  when  taken  oft",  leave 
loaves,  or  cakes  of  starch,  which  are 
left  to  dry  a  little,  and  are  then 
broken  into  smaller  pieces,  and  left 
on  the  plaster-floor,  till  very  dry. 
But  if  the  weather  is  at  all  humid, 
the  starch  is  removed  from  the  plas- 
ter-floor and  spread  out  upon  shelves, 
in  an  apartment  which  is  warmed 
by  a  stove,  and  there  it  remains  till 
perfectly  dry.  The  pieces  are  after- 
wards scraped,  to  remove  the  out- 
side crust,  which  makes  common 
starch ;  and  the  scraped  pieces  be- 
ing again  broken  small,  the  starch 
is  carried  to  the  stove,  and  spread 
out  to  a  depth  of  three  inches,  on 
hurdles  covered  with  cloths.  The 
starch  must  be  turned  over  every 
morning  and  evening,  to  prevent  it 
from  turning  to  a  greenish  colour, 
which  it  would  otherwise  do.  Those 
manufacturers  who  are  not  provided 
with  a  stove,  make  use  of  the  top  of 
a  baker's  oven  to  spread  the  starch 
upon ;  and  after  being  thoroughly 
dried  here,  it  is  ready  for  sale.  Starch 
may  be  made  from  potatoes,  by 
soaking  them  about  an  hour  in  wa- 
ter, and  taking  off  their  roots  and 
fibres,  then  rubbing  them  quite  clean 
by  a  strong  brush  :  after  this  they 
are  reduced  to  a  pulp,  by  grating 
them  in  water.  This  pulp  is  to  be 
collected  in  a  tub,  and  mixed  up 
with  a  large  quantity  of  clear  water  : 
at  the  same  time,  another  clean  tub 
must  be  provided ;  and  a  hair  sieve, 
not  too  fine,  must  be  supported  over 
it  by  two  wooden  rails  extended 
across  the  tub.  The  pulp  and  water 
are  thrown  into  the  sieve,  and  the 
flour  of  starch  is  carried  through 
with  the  water;  fresh  water  must 
then  be  poured  on,  till  it  runs  through 
quite  clear.  The  refuse  pulp  which 
remains  in  the  sieve,  being  boiled  in 
water,  makes  an  exceHent  food  for 
animals;  and  the  quantity  of  this 
pulp  is  near  seven-eighths  of  all  the 
396 


potatoes  employed.  The  liquor  which 
has  passed  through  the  sieve  is  tur- 
bid, and  of  a  darkish  colour,  from 
the  extractive  matter  which  is  dis- 
solved in  it.  When  it  is  suft'ered  to ' 
rest  for  five  or  six  hours,  all  this- 
matter  deposits  or  settles  to  the  bot-  ^ 
tom,  and  the  liquor  which  remains ' 
is  to  be  poured  oft"  as  useless ;  and 
a  large  quantity  of  fresh  water  is 
thrown  upon  the  flour,  and  stirred 
up  :  it  is  then  settled  for  a  day,  and 
the  water  being  poured  oft',  the  flour 
will  be  found  to  have  again  settled 
in  a  whiter  state.  But  to  improve 
it,  another  quantity  of  water  is  pour- 
ed on,  and  mixed  up  with  it ;  in 
which  state  it  is  passed  through  a 
fine  silk  sieve,  to  arrest  any  small 
quantity  of  the  pulp  which  may  have 
escaped  the  first  hair  sieve.  The 
whole  must  afterwards  be  suft'ered 
to  stand  quiet,  till  the  flour  is  en- 
tirely settled,  and  the  water  above 
become  perfectly  clear  ;  but  if  the 
water  has  any  sensible  colour  or 
taste,  the  flour  must  be  washed  again 
with  fresh  water,  for  it  is  absolutely 
necessary  that  none  of  the  extractive 
matter  be  suft'ered  to  remain  with  it. 
The  ftour,  when  thus  obtained  pure, 
and  drained  from  the  water,  may  be 
taken  out  of  the  tub  with  a  wooden 
shovel,  and  placed  upon  wicker- 
frames  covered  with  paper,  to  be 
dried  in  some  situation  properly  de- 
fended from  dust.  When  the  ma- 
nufacture of  starch  from  potatoes 
is  attempted  in  a  large  way,  some 
kind  of  mill  must  be  used  to  reduce 
them  to  a  pulp,  as  the  grating  of 
them  by  hand  is  too  tedious  an  ope- 
ration. A  mill  invented  by  M .  Baum6 
is  very  complete  for  this  purpose. 
In  its  general  structure  it  resembles 
a  large  coft^ee-mill :  the  grater  con-  \ 
sists  of  a  cone  of  iron  plate,  about 
seven  inches  in  diameter,  and  eight 
inches,  in  height,  the  exterior  sur- 
face of  which  is  made  toothed,  hke 
a  rasp,  by  piercing  holes  through 
the  plate  from  the  inside.  This  cone 
is  fixed  upon  a  verticlc  axle,  tvith  a 


ST  A 


STE 


handle  at  the  top  to  turn  it  by  ;  and 
is  mounted  on  the  pivots  of  the  axle, 
within  a  hollow  cylinder  of  plate- 
iron,  toothed  withinside  like  the  out- 
side of  the  cone  ;  the  smallest  end 
of  the  interior  cone  being  uppermost, 
and  the  lower  or  larger  end  being 
as  large  as  the  interior  diameter  of 
the  hollow  cylinder.  A  conical  hop- 
per is  fixed  to  the  hollow  cylinder, 
round  the  top  of  it,  into  which  the 
potatoes  are  thrown ;  and  falling 
down  into  the  space  between  the  out- 
side of  the  cone  and  the  inside  of 
the  hollow  cylinder,  they  are  ground, 
and  reduced  to  a  pulp,  when  the  in- 
terior cone  is  turned  round  by  its 
handle  ;  and  as  the  lower  part  of 
the  cone  is  fitted  close  to  the  interior 
diameter  of  the  cylinder,  the  pota- 
toes must  be  ground  to  a  fine  pulp 
before  they  can  pass  through  be- 
tween the  two.  The  machine,  when 
at  work,  is  placed  in  a  tub  filled  with 
water ;  and  as  fast  as  the  grinding 
proceeds,  the  pulp  mixes  regularly 
with  the  water,  ready  for  the  process 
before  described.  Poland  starch  is 
reckoned  the  best :  its  quality  may 
be  judged  of  by  the  fineness  of  the 
grain,  its  being  very  brittle,  and  of 
a  good  colour.  The  price  of  starch 
depends  upon  that  of  flour ;  and 
when  bread  is  cheap,  starch  may  be 
bought  to  advantage.  If  it  be  of 
good  quality  it  will  keep  for  some 
years,  covered  close,  and  laid  up  in 
a  dry  warm  room.  In  the  year  1796, 
lord  William  Murray  obtained  a  pa- 
tent for  manufacturing  starch  from 
horse-chesnuts.  The  method  was 
to  take  the  horse-chesnuts  out  of  the 
outward  green  prickly  husk,  and 
either  by  hand,  with  a  knife  or  tool, 
or  else  with  a  mill  adapted  for  the 
purpose,  the  brown  rind  was  care- 
fully  removed,  leaving  the  chesnuts 
perfectly  white,  and  without  the 
smallest  speck.  In  this^state  the 
nuts  were  rasped  or  grountf  to  a  pulp 
with  water,  and  the  pulp  washed 
with  water  through  a  coarse  horse- 
hair sieve,    and    twice    afterwards 


through  finer  sieves,  with  a  constant 
addition  of  clear  cold  water,  till  all 
the  starch  was  washed  clean  from 
the  pulp  which  remained  in  the  sieve; 
and  the  water  being  settled,  deposit- 
ed the  starch,  which  was  afterwards 
repeatedly  washed,  purified,  and 
dried,  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
potatoe-starch  before  described.  We 
are  not  informed  if  this  manufacture 
has  been  carried  into  eftect.  The 
sour,  nauseous,  milky  liquor  obtain- 
ed in  the  process  of  starch-making, 
appears,  upon  analysis,  to  contain 
acetous  acid,  ammonia,  alcohol, 
gluten,  and  phosphate  of  lime.  The 
office  of  the  acid  is  to  dissolve  the 
gluten  and  phosphate  of  lime,  and 
thus  to  separate  them  from  the  starch. 
Starch  is  used  along  with  smalt,  or 
stone-blue,  to  stiffen  and  clear  linen. 
The  powder  of  it  is  also  used  to 
whiten  and  powder  the  hair.  It  is 
also  used  by  the  dyers,  to  dispose 
their  stufi^s  to  take  colours  the  better. 
Starch  is  sometimes  used  instead  of 
sugar-candy  for  mixing  with  the  co- 
lours that  are  used  in  strong  gum- 
water,  to  make  them  work  more 
freely,  and  to  prevent  their  cracking. 
It  is  also  used  medicinally  for  the 
same  intentions  with  the  viscous  sub- 
stance which  the  flour  of  wheat  forms 
with  milk,  in  fluxes  and  catarrhs, 
under  various  forms  of  powders, 
mixtures,  &c,  A  drachm  of  starch, 
with  three  ounces  of  any  agreeable 
simple  water,  and  a  little  sugar,  com- 
pose an  elegant  jelly,  of  which  a 
spoonful  may  be  taken  every  hour 
or  two.  These  gelatinous  mixtures 
are  likewise  an  useful  injection  in 
some  diarrhoeas,  particularly  where 
the  lower  intestines  have  their  natu- 
ral mucus  rubbed  ofl^  by  the  flux,  or 
are  constantly  irritated  by  the  acri- 
mony of  the  matter. 

STEAKS  FRIED.  Moisten  the 
pan  with  butter,  put  in  some  beef 
steaks,  and  when  done,  lay  them  on 
a  dish.  Put  to  the  gravy  that  comes 
out  of  them,  a  glass  of  port  wine, 
half  an  anchovy,  a  sliced  shalot  with 
397 


STE 


STE 


nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt.  Give  it  a 
boil  in  the  pan,  pour  it  over  the 
steaks,  and  send  them  hot  to  table. 
In  a  plainer  wny,  put  a  little  flour  and 
water  into  the  pan  with  the  gravy 
when  the  steaks  are  taken  out,  add- 
ing a  spoonful  of  ketchup,  an  onion 
or  siialot.  The  wine  and  anchovy 
may  be  omitted.  Garnish  with  scra- 
ped horse-radish  round  the  dish. 

STEAK  PIE.  Raise  a  crust  pretty 
deep  and  thick.  Divide  a  breast  or 
neck  of  mutton  into  steaks,  beat  and 
season  them  with  nutmeg,  pepper, 
and  salt.  Add  some  sweet  herbs  cut 
very  fine,  two  onions  sliced,  the  yolks 
of  three  or  four  hard  eggs  minced, 
and  two  spoonfuls  of  capers.  Scatter 
these  among  the  steaks  as  they  are 
laid  into  the  pie.  Put  on  the  top 
crust,  and  let  the  pie  soak  in  a  mode- 
rately hot  oven  for  two  hours  or  lon- 
ger, according  to  its  size.  Have  some 
gravy  ready  to  put  into  it  through  a 
funnel,  when  it  is  to  be  served  up. 

STEAK  PUDDING.  Make  a 
paste  of  suet  or  dripping  and  flour, 
roll  it  out,  and  line  a  basin  with  it. 
Season  the  meat,  and  put  it  in.  Co- 
ver it  with  the  paste,  pinch  it  close 
round  the  edge,  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth, 
and  boil  it  two  hours,  but  be  careful 
notto  break  it. — Another  way.  Make 
a  good  paste,  with  suet  shred  very 
fine,  and  flour ;  mix  it  up  with  cold 
water,  and  a  little  salt,  and  make 
your  crust  pretty  stiflf;  about  two 
pounds  of  suet  to  a  quarter  of  a  peck 
of  flour.  Let  the  steaks  be  either  beef 
or  mutton,  well  seasoned  with  pep- 
per and  salt ;  make  it  up  like  an 
apple-pudding,  tie  it  in  a  cloth  tight, 
and  put  it  into  the  water  boiling.  If 
it  be  a  large  pudding,  it  will  take 
four  or  fiv«  hours  ;  if  a  middling  one, 
three  hours. 

STEAKS  ROLLED.  After  beat- 
ing them  to  make  them  tender,  spread 
them  over  with  any  quantity  of  high 
seasoned  forcemeat.  Then  roll  them 
up,  and  skewer  them  tight.  Fry  the 
steaks  in  nice  dripping,  till  they  be- 
come of  a  delicate  brown.  Then  take 
398 


them  out  of  the  fat  in  which  they 
were  fried,  and  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  some  good  gravy,  a  spoon- 
ful of  port  wine,  and  some  ketchup. 
When  sufficiently  stew  ed,  serve  them 
up  with  the  gravy,  and  a  few  pickled 
mushrooms. 

STEAM.  Steam  is  employed  to 
great  advantage  for  culinary  pur- 
poses. It  is  made  to  communicate 
with  vessels  in  the  form  of  boilers, 
as  a  substitute  for  having  fires  un- 
der them,  which  is  a  great  advan- 
tage, both  in  the  economy  of  fuel, 
and  in  avoiding  at  the  same  time  the 
nuisance  of  ashes  and  smoke.  The 
most  convenient  application  of  steam 
for  culinary  purposes  is,  when  it 
directly  acts  upon  the  substance  to 
be  heated.  This  has  been  generally 
eflected  by  placing  the  substance, 
whether  meat  or  vegetables,  in  a 
vessel  without  water,  and  allowing 
the  steam  to  enter  and  condense 
upon  it.  The  most  convenient  ap- 
paratus of  this  kind  we  have  yet 
heard  of,  consists  of  a  cast-iron 
plate  about  thirty  inches  or  three 
feet  square,  standing  horizontally  in 
a  recess  in  the  wall,  like  a  table. 
Round  the  edge  of  this  plate  is  a 
groove,  about  half  an  inch  wide  and 
two  inches  deep.  Into  this  groove 
fits  an  inverted  tin  vessel,  like  a  dish- 
cover.  This  is  capable  of  being  ele- 
vated and  depressed  by  a  pulley  and 
chain,  having  a  counterpoise,  in  or- 
der to  expose  the  table  at  any  time. 
The  steam  comes  under  the  table 
and  enters  in  the  centre.  The  dishes 
to  receive  the  heat  are  placed  on 
any  part  within  the  groove,  the  steam 
being  common  to  all.  The  water 
resulting  from  the  condensation  runs 
into  the  groove,  and  at  a  point  short 
of  the  top  runs  off.  The  water  which 
remains  forms  a  complete  water-lute, 
to  prevent  the  escape  of  steam.  The 
table  being  placed  in  a  recess,  like  a 
common  stone  hearth,  a  small  flue  is 
placed  over  it  to  take  away  any 
steam  that  may  escape  when  the 
covet  is  lifted  up.     The  great  quan- 


STE 


STE 


tity  of  hot  water  required  in  a  scul- 
lery should  be  perpetually  kept  up 
by  a  supply  of  steam.    For  this"  pur- 
pose a    large    cylindrical   vessel   of 
cast-iron   should    be  elevated   in    a 
corner  of  the  scullery,  in  order  that 
water  may  be  drawn  from  it  by   a 
cock.     This  vessel  should  be  con- 
nected from  the  bottom  with  a  cold- 
water  cistern,  the  bottom  of  which 
is  level  with  the  top  of  the  cylinder, 
by  which  the  latter  is  kept  constantly 
full.      The    hot-water    cylinder    is 
closed  firmly  at  the  top,  and  there- 
fore, when  the  air  is  allowed  to  es- 
cape, the  water  rises  to  the  top.     If 
now  a  pipe  be  connected  with  the 
top,  coming  down  to  where  it  is  to 
be  drawn  off,  if  any  portion  is  drawn 
out  here,  as  much  will  come  in  at 
the  bottom  of  the  cylinder  from  the 
reservoir   above.     So  far   we    have 
described  this  cylinder  without  its 
steam-vessel.     Within  this  cylinder, 
and  about  the  middle,  is  a  distinct 
vessel,  nearly  of  the  width  of  the  cy- 
linder ;  but  having  a  free  space  round 
the  inner  vessel  about  an  inch  wide. 
The  depth  of  the  inner  vessel  must 
be  about  one-sixth  that  of  the  outer 
one.     This   inner  vessel  must  have 
no  connection  with  the  outer  one, 
and  must  be  so  water-tight,  that  al- 
though it  is    surrounded    with    the 
water  of  the  outer  one,  none  should 
get  in.     The  inner  vessel  is  on  one 
side   connected    by   a   pipe  with    a 
steam-boiler,   having    another    pipe 
to  allow  the  condensed  water  to  run 
off,  which  may  be  preserved  as  dis- 
tilled water,  and  is  valuable  for  many 
purposes.      The  heat  arising  from 
the    condensation  is  communicated 
to  the  water  in  the  outer  vessel,  the 
hottest  being  at  the  top,  where  the 
mouth   of  the  exit-pipe   is    placed. 
When,   therefore,  a  portion  of  hot 
water  is  dra.wn   from  the  cock,  the 
pipe  of  which  comes  from  the  top  of 
the    vessel   immediately   under    the 
cover,  an  equal  quantity  comes  in  at 
the  bottom  from  the  reservoir.    This 
tiseful  apparatus  is  the  invention  of 


an  ingenious  economist  of  Derby, 
and  is  at  present  in  use  in  his  kit- 
chen.    The  art  of  boiling  vegetables 
of  all  kinds  in  steam  instead  of  wa- 
ter, might  probably  be  managed  to 
advantage,  as  a  greater  degree  of 
heat  might  be  thus  given  them,  by 
contriving  to  increase  the   heat   of 
the  steam  after  it  has  left  the  water ; 
and  thus  the  vegetable  mucilage  in 
roots  and  seeds,  as  in  potatoes  and 
flour  puddings,  as  well  as  in  their 
leaves,  stems,  and  flower-cups,  might 
be  rendered   probably   more  nutri- 
tive, and  perhaps  more  palatable  ; 
but  that  many  of  the  leaves  of  ve- 
getables, as  the  summits  of  cabbage- 
sprouts,  lose  their  green  colour  by 
being  boiled  in  steam,  and  look  like 
blam^hed   vegetables.      Steam    has 
likewise  lately  been  applied  in  gar- 
dening  to   the   purpose   of  forcing 
plants  of  different  kinds  in  the  win- 
ter season,   in  order  to  have  their 
produce  at  an  early  period,  as  to 
the  cucumber,  and  some  other  ve- 
getables of  a  somewhat  similar  na- 
ture ;  but  the  exact  manner  of  its 
application  in  this  intention,  so  far 
as  we  know,  has  not  yet  been  com- 
municated to  the  public  ;  it  is,  how- 
ever, by  some  mode  of  flues,  pipes, 
and  other  contrivances  for  conveying 
and  containing  it,  so  as  that  its  heat 
may    be    uninterruptedly,    equally, 
and  regularly  afforded  to  the  roots 
of  the  plants  which  it  is  designed  to 
push  forward  into  the  fruiting  state. 
It  is  said  to  have  been  used  in  some 
instances  in  different  parts  of  Lan- 
cashire with  great  success.  But  how 
far  the  expense  and   advantage  of 
such   a  method  may  admit  of  and 
encourage  its  being  introduced  into 
general  practice,  have  not,  probably, 
yet  been  well  or  fully  ascertained. 
If  it  should  be  found  capable  of  per- 
fectly   succeeding   in   this    use,    on 
more  full  and  correct  experience,  it 
will,  however,  constitute  not  only  a 
neat  and  clean,  but  an  elegant  mode 
of  forcing  plants  into  fruit  at  early 
seasons. 

399 


STE 


STE 


STEAMED   POTATOES.     The 

potatoes  must  be  well  washed,  but 
not  pared,  and  put  into  the  steamer 
when  the  water  boils.  Moderate  si- 
zed potatoes  will  require  three  quar- 
ters of  an  hour  to  do  them  properly. 
They  should  be  taken  up  as  soon  as 
they  are  done  enough,  or  they  will 
beeome  watery. 

STEEL.  To  transform  iron  into 
steel,  put  four  ounces  of  cast  iron 
into  a  crucible,  with  a  considerable 
degree  of  heat.  While  in  a  state  of 
fusion,  immerse  in  it  a  polished  iron 
wire  of  some  thickness,  and  keep  it 
there  for  some  time,  but  not  so  lon^ 
as  to  fuse  it.  When  cold,  the  wire 
will  be  so  hard  as  to  resist  the  action 
of  a  common  file,  being  converted 
into  steel. 

STEEL  RUST.  The  prevention  of 
rust,  on  such  articles  of  furniture  as 
are  made  of  polished  steel,  is  an  ob- 
ject of  great  importance  in  domestic 
ft        economy.    The  cutlers  in  Sheffield, 
when  they  have  given  a  knife  or  ra- 
zor blade   the  requisite  degree  of 
polish,    rub    them    with   powdered 
quick-lime,  in  order  to  prevent  them 
from  tarnishing;   and  it  seems   that 
articles  made  of  polished  steel  are 
dipped  in  lime   water,  before  they 
are  sent  into  the  retail  market.    But 
when  steel  has  contracted  rust,  the 
method  of  cleaning  and  polishing  it 
is  to  oil  the  rusty  parts,   and  let  it 
remain  in   that   state  two  or  three 
days.     Then  wipe  it  dry  with  clean 
rags,  and  polish  with  emery  or  pu- 
mice stone,  or  hard  wood.  After  the 
oil  is  cleared  off,  a  little  fresh  lime 
finely  powdered  will  often  be  found 
sufficient ;  but  where  a  higher  polish 
is  required,  it  will  be  necessary  to 
use  a  paste  composed  of  finely  levi- 
gated bloodstone  and  spirits  of  wine. 
STEEL  STOVES.     To  preserve 
them  effectually  from  rust,  beat  into 
three  pounds  of  unsalted  lard,  two 
drams  of  camphor  sliced  thin,  till  the 
whole  is  absorbed.    Then    take  as 
much  black  lead  as  will  make  it  of 
the  colour  of  broken  steel ;  dip  a  rag 
400 


into  it,  rub  it  thick  on  the  stove,  and 
the  steel  will  never  rust,  even  if  wet- 
ted. When  the  stove  is  to  be  used, 
the  grease  must  be  washed  ofi'  with 
hot  water,  and  the  steel  be  dried 
before  polishing. 

STEWED  ARTICHOKES.  Wash 
and  pare  some  Jerusalem  artichokes, 
and  part  them  in  two.  Boil  them  in 
a  small  quantity  of  gravy  till  almost 
done,  and  the  liquor  nearly  consu- 
med. Then  add  some  cream,  a  piece 
of  butter  rolled  in  tiour  and  a  little 
salt,  all  in  proportion  to  the  number 
of  artichokes.  Stew  them  gently  for 
ten  minutes,  and  serve  them  up  with 
sippets  of  white  bread  fried. 

STEWED  ARTICHOKE  BOT- 
TOMS. Boil  some  artichokes  till 
about  half  done,  and  then  take  off 
the  leaves  and  the  choke.  Trim  the 
bottoms  nicely,  and  stew  them  gently 
in  some  gravy,  with  a  little  lemon- 
juice  or  vinegar,  and  some  salt,  till 
they  are  quite  tender.  Before  serving 
them  up,  wipe  them  dry,  then  lay 
them  in  a  dish  with  sippets  of  toasted 
or  fried  bread  laid  r>  und  it,  and 
pour  some  strong  clear  gravy  over 
them.  Dried  artichoke  bottoms  may 
also  be  used  for  stewing,  but  should 
fir>t  be  soaked  a  little  while  in  warm 
water. 

STEWED  BREAST  OF  VEAL. 
Take  a  nice  breast  of  veal,  cut  off 
the  thin  end,  and  boil  it  down  for 
your  sauce,  with  a  faggot  of  sweet 
herbs,  an  onion  stuck  with  three  | 
cloves,  two  blades  of  mace,  some  I 
whole  pepper  and  salt ;  put  to  it  a 
quart  of  water,  and  let  it  stew  gently 
till  half  is  wasted,  then  raise  the 
skin  off  your  breast  of  veal,  and 
make  a  forcemeat  of  the  sweet- 
bread first  parboiled,  a  few  crumbs 
of  bread,  a  little  beef  suet,  and  some 
parsley  shred  very  fine  ;  season  it 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg ; 
moisten  it  with  a  spoonful  of  cream, 
and  an  e^g  ;  mix  all  well  together, 
and  force  your  veal ;  skewer  it  down 
close,  dredge  it  over  with  flour,  tie 
it  up  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  let  it  boil 


STE 


STE 


an  hour  and  a  half.  If  your  gravy  is 
done,  strain  it  off,  and  take  off  the  fat 
very. clean  ;  blanch  and  beard  half  a 
pintof  oysters,  a  gill  of  pickled  mush- 
rooms, a  little  lemon-peel  shred  very 
fine :  put  this  to  your  gravy,  and 
thicken  it  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour ;  fry  six  or  eight  large  oys- 
ters, dipped  in  batter  for  garnish. 
When  your  veal  is  enough,  dish  it  up, 
and  pour  your  sauce  over.  Garnish 
your  dish  with  lemon,  oysters,  and 
barberries. 

STEWED  BRISKET  OF  BEEF. 
Stew  nine  pounds  of  brisket  of  beef, 
in  two  gallons  of  water,  for  two  or 
three  hours  over  night.  W  hen  made 
sufficiently  tender,  take  out  the 
bones,  and  carefully  skim  off  the  fat. 
Boil  in  some  of  the  liquor  a  few  car- 
rots, turnips,  onions,  celery,  and 
white  cabbage,  till  they  become  quite 
tendcT.  Add  some  salt,  and  the  re- 
mainder of  the  broth  to  the  beef,  and 
stew  all  together  till  sufficiently  done. 
STEWED  CALF'S  LIVER 
LARDED.  Take  a  calf's  liver,  and 
lard  it,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan, 
with  some  water,  a  bundle  of  sweet 
herbs,  an  onion,  a  blade  of  mace, 
some  whole  pepper,  and  a  little  salt; 
cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stew  till  it 
is  enough  ;  then  take  up  your  liver, 
and  put  it  into  the  dish  you  intend  ; 
cover  it  over,  and  take  out  your 
herbs  and  spice ;  skim  off  all  the 
fat  very  clean  ;  put  in  a  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour  ;  boil  it  till  it 
is  of  a  proper  thickness;  pour  it 
over  your  liver,  and  send  it  to  table 
garnished  with  lemon. 

STEWED  CARDOONS.  Cut 
them  into  pieces,  not  more  than  five 
or  six  inches  long.  Take  oft'  the 
outward  skin,  and  wash  and  scald 
them.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan, 
with  gravy  enough  to  cover  them, 
and  let  them  stew  gently  till  almost 
done,  and  the  liquor  nearly  exhaust- 
ed. Add  a  small  quantity  of  fresh 
'^  gravy,  and  continue  stewing  them 
gently  till  quite  tender.  Serve  them 


up  with  sippets  of  toasted  bread 
round  the  edge  of  the  dish.  If  the 
gravy  is  not  sufficiently  seasoned, 
add  a  little  salt  and  cayenne. 

STEWED  CARP.  Scale  and  clean 
the  fish,  and  preserve  the  roe.    Lay 
the  carp  in  a  stewpan,  with  a  rich 
beef-gravy,  an  onion,  eight  cloves, 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  Jamaica  pep- 
per, the  same  of  black  pepper,  and 
a  glass  of  port  or  cider.     Simmer  it 
closely  covered  ;  when  nearly  done, 
add  two  anchovies  chopped  fine,  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  made  mustard, 
a  little  fine  walnut  ketchup,  and  a 
bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.     Shake 
it,  and  let  the  gravy  boil  a  few.  mi- 
nutes.    Serve  with  sippets  of  fried 
bread,  the  roe  fried,  and  a  good  deal 
of  horseradish  and  lemon. — Another 
way.    Scale  your  carp,  then  gut  and 
wash  them  very  clean,  and  dry  them 
in  a  cloth  ;  put  a  piece  of  butter  in- 
to a   stewpan,  when  it  is  hot,  fry 
them  as  quick  as  you  can,  till  they 
are  of  a  fine  brown  ;  boil  the  roes, 
then  fry  them  of  a  fine  gold  colour  ; 
take  them  up,  and  keep  them  hot  be- 
fore the  fire  :  then  put  to  your  carp 
half  port  wine  and  half  water,  as  much 
as  will  cover  them  a  little  more  than 
half  way  ;  put  in  some  thyme,  pars- 
ley, a  piece  of  lemon-peel,  whole  pep- 
per, a  few  cloves,  a  blade  or  two  of 
mace,    an  onion,  some  horse-radish 
sliced,  and    two  spoonfuls  of  ket- 
chup ;  put  on  your  cover,  and  let  it 
stew  very   gently,   till   your  fish  is 
enough  ;  do  not  turn  them  in  the  pan, 
but  with  a  ladle  take  some  of  the  li- 
quor, and  pour  over  your  fish  every 
now  and  then,  while  they  are  stew- 
ing,   then   cover  them  close  again  : 
When    they  are   done  enough,  tdike 
them  out  of  the  pan  with  a  slice,  and 
take  care  not  to  break  them  ;  put 
them    into  the  dish  you   intend   to 
send   them  to  table  in,   then   strain 
the  liquor,  and  thicken  it  up  with  a 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  ;  let  it 
boil  till  it  is  pretty  thick,   pour  the 
sauce  over  the  fish,  and  garnish  your 
3  F  401 


«  T  E 


STE 


dish  with  the  roes,  lemon»  and  horse- 
radisli,  and  send  it  to  table.  You 
may  squeeze  a  little  lemon  into  the 
sauce,  if  you  like  it,  and  add  oysters 
fried  in  butter ;  or  you  may  stew  them 
in  cider,  instead  of  wine,  and  it  is 
very  little  inferior.  Tench  may  be 
done  the  same  way. — To  stew  carp 
white.  Scale  and  gut  your  fish  very 
clean,  save  the  roes  and  melts,  then 
stove  them  in  some  good  white  broth ; 
season  them  with  mace,  salt,  whole 
pepper,  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves, 
a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  and  about 
half  a  pint  of  white  wine  ;  cover  them 
close,  and  let  them  stew  gently  over 
a  charcoal  fire.  Dip  the  roes  and 
melts  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg  ;  flour 
them,  and  fry  them  of  a  fine  brown, 
and  have  fried  parsley  and  sippets 
ready.  When  the  fish  is  near  done, 
take  out  the  onion  and  faggot,  beat 
up  the  yolks  of  four  or  five  eggs, 
take  up  the  fish  carefully,  and  put 
it  into  the  dish  you  serve  it  in  ;  pour 
off  the  sauce,  then  strain  it  into  a 
stewpan,  and  put  in  your  eggs  ;  keep 
it  stirring  till  it  is  as  fine  as  cream, 
then  pour  it  over  the  dishr  Garnish 
with  the  roes,  fried  parsley,  sippets, 
horseradish  scraped,  and  lemon : 
send  it  as  hot  as  possible  to  table. — 
A  plain  way  to  stew  carp.  Clean 
^our  carp  very  well,  cut  them  in  two, 
put  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  little 
onion  shred  fine,  pepper,  salt,  a  little 
beaten  mace,  a  few  capers  chopped 
small,  and  some  crusts  of  bread  chip- 
ped in.  Then  pour  in  a  gill  of 
white,  and  a  gill  of  red  wine,  and  as 
much  water  as  will  just  cover  them  ; 
cover  the  pan  close,  and  let  them 
stew  till  they  are  enough,  and  the 
sauce  grown  thick.  Serve  it  up  with 
lemon  and  horseradish  for  garnish. 
STEWED  CARROTS.  Half  boil, 
scrape  them  nicely,  and  slice  them 
into  a  stewpan.  Add  half  a  tea-cup- 
ful of  weak  broth,  the  same  quantity 
of  cream,  with  pepper  and  salt.  Sim- 
mer till  the  carrots  are  quite  tender, 
but  not  broken.  Before  serving, 
402 


warm  them  up  with  a  bit  of  butffef 
rubbed  in  flour.  Chopped  parsley 
may  be  added,  if  apjnoved,  ten  mi- 
nutes before  serving. 

,STEWED  CELERY.  Wash  six 
heads,  and  strip  ofl^"  the  outer  leaves. 
Either  divide  or  leave  them  whole, 
according  to  their  size,  and  cut  them 
into  lengths  of  four  inches.  Put  them 
into  a  stewpan  with  a  cup  of  broth, 
or  weak  gravy,  and  stew  them  ten- 
der. Add  two  spoonfuls  of  cream, 
and  a  little  flour  and  butter  seasoned 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  and 
simmer  them  all  togeth  t. 

STEWED  CHICKENS.  Cut  two 
chickens  into  quarters ;  wash  them 
clean,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan, 
with  half  a  pint  of  red  wine,  and  a 
gill  of  water,  an  onion,  a  faggot  of 
sweet  herbs,  seasoned  with  mace, 
pepper,  and  salt ;  cover  them  close, 
and  let  them  stew  half  an  hour,  then 
take  the  quantity  of  an  e^g  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour ;  take  out  the  onion 
and  sweet  herbs  ;  shake  it  round  till 
it  is  of  a  good  thickness,  and  take  off 
all  the  scum  very  clean  :  dish  it  up 
garnished  with  lemon. — To  stew 
chickens  for  a  tender  stomach.  Take  J 
two  nice  chickens,  and  half  boil  m 
them  ;  then  take  them  up  into  a 
small  soup-dish  ;  separate  all  the 
joints,  and  add  three  or  four  spoon- 
fuls of  the  liquor  they  are  boiled  in, 
with  a  little  beaten  mace,  and  salt ;: 
then  cover  them  close  with  another 
dish,  and  keep  in  all  the  steam  ;  set 
it  over  a  clear  stove,  and  let  it  stew 
till  the  chickens  are  enough,  and  send 
them  hot  to  table  in  the  same  dish 
they  were  stewed  in. 

STEWED  COD.  Cut  a  cod  in 
slices,  as  you  would  for  crimping, 
lay  it  in  a  clean  stewpan  ;  season  it 
with  nutmeg,  a  little  mace  finely 
beaten,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  bun- 
dle of  sweet  herbs ;  then  pour  in 
white  wine  and  water  an  equal  quan- 
tity, just  to  cover  it :  put  on  the 
cover,  and  let  it  simmer  for  six  or 
eight  minutes  ;  skim  it  very  ckan. 


STE 


STE 


put  in  half  a  pint  of  shrimps  clean 
picked,  a  good  piece  of  butter  rolled 
iu  flour,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ;' 
cover  it,  and  shake  your  pan  round 
gently  :  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil, 
take  oft'  all  the  scum  as  it  rises  :  if 
your  sauce  is  of  a  proper  thickness, 
your  Hsh  will  be  enough ;  wipe  the 
rim  of  the  pan  very  clean,  and  slide 
the  fish  into  your  dish,  taking  care 
not  to  break  it.  Garnish  with  lemon 
and  scraped  horse-radish. — Another 
way.  Lay  the  slices  into  a  large 
stewpan,  so  that  they  need  not  be 
laid  one  upon  another.  Season  with 
nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt,  a  bundle 
of  sweet  herbs,  and  an  onion.  Add 
half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  and  a  quar- 
ter of.  a  pint  of  water.  Simmer  it 
gently  a  few  minutes,  squeeze  in  a 
lemon,  add  a  few  oysters,  tlie  liquor 
strained,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  and  a  little  mace.  Cover  it 
close,  and  let  it  stew  gently,  shaking 
the  pan  often.  When  done  take  out 
the  herbs  and  onions,  and  serve  it 
«p  with  the  sauce  poured  over  it. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS.  SHce 
them  thick,  or  halve  and  divide  them 
into  two  lengths.  Strew  over  them 
some  salt  and  pepper,  and  sliced 
onions  :  add  a  little  broth,  or  a  bit 
of  butter.  Simmer  very  slowly,  and 
put  in  a  little  flour  and  butter  before 
serving. — Another  v/ay.  Slice  the 
onions,  and  cut  the  cucumbers  large. 
Flour  and  fry  them  in  butter,  then 
stew  them  in  good  broth  or  gravy, 
and  skim  oft'  the  fat. 

STEWED  DUCK.  Haif  roast  a 
tluck,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
pint  of  beef  gravy,  a  few  leaves  of 
sage  and  mint  cut  small,  pepper  and 
salt,  and  a  small  bit  of  onion  shred 
as  fine  as  possible.  Simmer  them  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  skim  it  clean, 
and  add  nearly  a  quart  of  green 
peas.  Cover  the  stewpan  close,  and 
simmer  near  half  an  hour  longer. 
Put  in  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little 
flour,  give  it  one  boil,  and  serve  all 
together  in  a  dish. 

STEWED  EELS.   Melt  an  ounce 


of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  add  a  hand> 
ful  of  sorrel  cut  in  large  pieces,  a 
dozen  sage  leaves  finely  minced, 
five  pounds  of  eels  cut  in  pieces, 
and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Then  put  in  two  anchovies  boned 
and  minced,  half  a  nutmeg,  and  half 
a  pint  of  water.  Stew  them  gently 
together  for  half  an  hour,  take  out 
the  onion,  squeeze  in  a  lemon,  and 
lay  toasted  bread  round  the  dish. 
Half  this  quantity  will  be  suflicient 
for  a  small  dish. — Another  way. 
Take  what  quantity  of  eels  you  please ; 
after  they  are  cleaned,  fry  them  in 
butter,  then  pour  the  butter  clear 
ofi*;  put  into  your  pan  a  bundle  of 
sweet  herbs,  an  onion  stuck  with 
two  or  three  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace, 
some  whole  pepper,  and  a  little  salt; 
then  add  a  ])int  of  red  wine  and  wa- 
ter, and  let  them  stew  till  they  are 
tender:  put  the  eels  into  a  dish, 
strain  oft'  the  sauce,  and  thicken  it 
up  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  or  a  piece  of  thickened  burnt 
butter.  Garnish  your  dish  with 
horse-radish  and  lemon. — Another 
wav.  Having  cleaned  your  eels  very 
well,  cut  them  in  pieces,  put  them 
into  a  stewpan,  with  a  bundle  of 
sweet  herbs,  an  onion  stuck  with 
cloves,  mace,  whole  pepper,  and  a 
little  salt ;  put  to  them  a  gill  of  white 
wine,  half  a  pint  of  red,  and  a  gill 
of  water  ;  cover  them  close,  and  let 
them  stew  till  tender  ;  strain  oft'  the 
gravy,  thicken  it  up,  and  send  it  to 
table. — To  stew  an  eel  whole.  Take 
a  fine  large  eel,  clean  it  well,  force 
the  inside  with  crumbs  of  bread,  an 
anchovy  cut  fine,  salt,  pepper,  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg,  and  two  or  three  oysters 
bruise),  with  some  parsley  shred 
fine  ;  fill  the  inside  as  full  as  you 
can,  sew  it  up  with  fine  thread,  turn 
it  round,  and  run  a  small  skewer 
through  it,  to  keep  it  in  its  folds  ; 
put  it  into  a  small  stewpan,  with  an 
onion  stuck  with  cloves,  and  a  fag- 
got of  herbs  ;  put  over  it  red  wine  ; 
cover  the  pan  down  very  close,  and 
let  it  stew  gently  till  tender ;  take 
403 


STE 


STE 


out  the  onion,  &c.  put  the  eel  into 
a  dish,  and  a  plate  over  it ;  thicken 
the  sauce  with  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  squeeze  a  little  lemon  into  the 
plate.  If  you  have  any  forcemeat 
left,  make  them  into  small  balls,  and 
fry  them  ;  put  them  into  the  sauce, 
give  them  a  toss,  and  pour  it  over 
the  eel.  Garnish  the  dish  with  fried 
ovsters,  horseradish,  and  lemon. 

"stewed  ENDIVE.  Trim  off  all 
tlie  green  parts  of  the  endive,  wash 
and  cut  into  pieces,  and  scald  it  till 
about  half  done.  Drain  it  well, 
chop  it  a  little,  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  little  strong  gravy,  and 
stew  it  gently  till  quite  tender.  Sea- 
son it  with  some  pepper  and  salt, 
and  serve  it  up  as  a  sauce  to  any 
kind  of  roast  meat ;  or  it  eats  well 
with  potatoes. 

STEWED  FOWL  WITH  CELE- 
RY. Take  a  fowl  or  turkey  trussed 
short  as  for  boiling,  press  down  the 
breast-bone,  put  it  into  a  clean  stew- 
pan,  with  good  veal  broth,  as  much 
as  will  cover  it ;  season  it  with  beat- 
en mace,  pepper  and  salt,  a  faggot 
of  sweet  herbs,  and  an  onion  ;  cover 
it  close,  and  let  it  boil :  in  the  mean 
time,  take  a  large  bunch  of  celery, 
cut  all  the  white  part  small,  and 
wash  it  very  clean :  if  your  turkey 
or  fowl  boils,  take  out  the  onion  and 
herbs  ;  scum  it  very  clean,  and  put 
in  your  celery  ;  cover  it  down  close, 
and  let  rt  stew  till  your  celery  is  very 
tender,  and  your  fowl  likewise  ;  take 
a  clean  stewpan,  and  set  it  over  your 
stove  ;  take  up  your  fowl  or  turkey, 
and  keep  it  hot ;  pour  your  celery 
and  sauce  into  your  stewpan ;  beat 
up  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs  in 
half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  a  large 
spoonful  of  white  wine ;  stir  it  till  it 
is  of  a  good  thickness,  and  just  at 
boiling  squeeze  in  a  little  juice  of  le- 
mon, or  a  little  mushroom  pickle ; 
shake  it  round,  and  pour  it  over  your 
fowl.  Garnish  your  dish  with  lemon. 
STEWED  FRENCH  BEANS. 
Prepare  some  young  beans  as  for 
boiling,  and  boji  them  in  plenty  of 
404 


water,  with  salt  in  it,  till  they  are  ra- 
ther more  than  half  done.  Drain 
them  in  a  cullender,  beat  up  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  with  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  cream,  put  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  two  ounces  of  fresh 
butter,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire. 
When  hot,  put  in  the  beans,  with  a 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  simmer  them 
quite  tender,  stirring  the  mixture  to 
keep  it  from  curdling  or  burning.  To 
stew  French  beans  with  gravy,  pur- 
sue the  same  method,  only  instead 
of  the  eggs  aud  cream,  put  half  a 
pint  of  gravy.  Use  only  half  the 
quantity  of  butter,  and  add  that  roll- 
ed in  flour,  to  thicken  up  the  whole 
after  the  beans  are  put  in.  The  vine- 
gar should  be  omitted,  and  cayenne 
and  salt  added  if  required. 

STEWED  GIBLETS.  After  very 
nicely  cleaning  goose  or  duck  gib- 
lets, and  removing  the  thick  mem- 
brane from  the  gizzards,  stew  them 
in  a  little  water.  Season  them  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  a  very  small 
piece  of  mace.  Before  serving,  give 
them  one  boil  with  a  cup  of  cream, 
and  a  piece  of  butter  rubbed  in  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour. 

STEWED  GREEN  PEAS.  To 
a  quart  of  peas  add  a  quart  of  gra- 
vy, two  or  three  lumps  of  sugar, 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Stew  them 
gently  till  the  peas  are  quite  tender, 
and  if  the  gravy  is  not  suflniciently 
thick,  add  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour.  If  the  peas  are  old,  half 
boil  them  first  in  hard  water,  before 
they  are  stewed.  Whether  for  young 
or  old  peas,  the  gravy  must  be  strong. 
To  stew  tliem  in  a  mild  way,  put  a 
pint  of  young  peas  into  a  stewpan, 
with  very  little  water,  and  two  young 
lettuces  cut  small.  Stew  them  gent- 
ly till  the  peas  are  tender,  then  add 
four  spoonfuls  of  cream,  a  lump  of 
sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Stir  the  whole  together  over  the  fire 
for  a  short  time,  but  do  not  allow  it 
to  boil.  A  little  salt  should  be  add- 
ed before  serving  up  the  stew.  Ano- 
ther way  is  to  take  a  quart  of  yowng 


STE 


STE 


I 


l^eas,  a  small  onion  sliced,  two  let- 
tuces cut  small,  and  a  sprig  or  two 
of  mint.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan, 
adding  some  salt,  a  little  pepper  and 
mace,  and  half  a  pint  of  hard  water. 
Stew  these  gently  for  twenty  minutes, 
then  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  mushroom  ketchup.  Keep  the 
stewpan  over  the  fire  till  the  peas 
are  quite  tender,  shaking  it  fre- 
quently, and  never  suffering  them  to 
boil.  Receipts  for  stewing  peas  might 
be  multiplied  to  almost  any  extent, 
for  there  is  no  one  preparation  in 
cookery  perhaps  more  varied  than 
this,  though  without  any  very  material 
difference. 

STEWED  HARE.  Take  off  the 
legs  and  shoulders,  cut  out  the  back- 
bone, cut  into  pieces  the  meat  which 
comes  off  the  sides,  and  put  all  into 
a  stewpan.  Add  three  quarters  of 
a  pint  of  small  beer,  the  same  of  wa- 
ter, a  large  onion  stuck  with  cloves, 
some  whole  pepper,  a  slice  of  lemon, 
and  a  little  salt.  Stew  it  gently  for 
an  hour,  close  covered,  and  put  to  it 
a  quart  of  gravy.  Stew  it  gradually 
two  hours  longer,  or  till  it  is  quite 
tender.  Take  out  the  hare,  rub 
smooth  half  a  spoonful  of  flour  in  a 
little  gravy,  add  it  to  the  sauce,  and 
boil  it  up.  Then  add  a  little  salt  and 
cayenne,  and  put  in  the  hare  again. 
"When  heated  through,  serve  it  up  in 
a  tureen  or  deep  di'sh,  adding  port 
"Wine  if  approved. 

STEWED  KNUCKLE  OF  VEAL. 
Take  a  knuckle  of  veal  of  about  five 
pounds  ;  wash  it  clean,  and  put  it 
into  a  clean  stewpan,  with  two  quarts 
of  water,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs, 
two  blades  of  mace,  an  onion  stuck 
fwith  three  or  four  cloves,  some  whole 
pepper,  and  a  little  salt ;  put  in  a 
crust  of  the  upper  part  of  a  loaf,  co- 
ver it  down  close,  and  make  it  boil, 
then  scum  it  very  clean,  and  let  it 
just  simmer  for  full  two  hours.  When 
you  take  it  up,  put  your  veal  into 
the  dish  first,  and  strain  your  broth 
through  a  fine  sieve  over  it,  then  take 


off  all  the  fat  very  clean,  and  put 
some  thin  slices  of  French  roll  in 
your  dish,  and  toasted  bread  cut  in 
dice,  in  a  plate.  Serve  it  up  hot. 
You  may  boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  rice  in  fair  water,  till  it  is  very 
tender ;  then  strain  it  off ;  and  when 
you  send  your  veal  to  table,  lay  your 
rice  all  over  it. — Rice  is  better  boiled 
by  itself,  for  when  you  boil  it  with 
the  meat,  the  scum  is  apt  to  disco- 
lour it,  and  make  it  eat  greasy. 

STEWED  LOBSTER.  Pick  the 
meat  out  of  the  shell,  put  it  into  a 
dish  that  has  a  lamp,  and  rub  it 
down  with  a  bit  of  butter.  Add  two 
spoonfuls  of  any  sort  of  gravy,  one 
of  soy  or  walnut  ketchup,  a  little  salt 
and  cayenne,  and  a  spoonful  of  port. 
A  lobster  thus  stewed  will  have  a 
very  fine  relish. 

STEWED  MUSCLES.  Wash 
your  muscles  very  clean,  then  put 
them  into  a  large  stewpan  over  a 
go«d  fire  ;  put  over  them  a  coarse 
wet  cloth  doubled  :  when  they  begin 
to  boil,  take  up  the  cloth  ;  if  the 
shells  are  open,  take  them  off  the 
fire,  and  pick  out  the  fish,  beard 
them,  and  cut  off  the  tongue  :  when 
you  have  picked  about  a  quart, 
strain  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  to 
them,  roll  two  ounces  of  butter  in 
flour,  add  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a 
little  beaten  mace,  and  squeeze  in  a 
little  lemon  juice  ;  let  them  stew  till 
of  a  proper  thickness,  put  toasted 
sippets  in  the  dish,  pour  in  the  mus- 
cles, and  send  them  to  table.  Cockles 
may  be  done  the  same  way. 

STEWED  MUSHROOMS.  The 
large  buttons  are  best,  and  the  small 
flaps  while  the  fur  is  still  red.  Rub 
the  lars^e  buttons  with  salt  and  a 
piece  of  flannel,  cut  out  the  fur,  and 
take  off  the  skin  from  the  others. 
Sprinkle  them  with  salt,  put  them 
into  a  stewpan,  and  add  some  pep- 
percorns. Let  it  simmer  slowly  till 
it  is  done,  then  put  in  a  small  bit  of 
butter  and  flour,  and  two  spoonfuls 
of  cream.  Give  it  one  boil,  and  serve 
up  the  dish  with  sippets  of  bread. 
\^  405 


STE 


STE 


STEWED    MUTTON   CHOPS. 

Take  some  chops  of  the  best  end  of  a 
loin  of  mutton,  or  some  slices  out  of 
the  middle  part  of  a  leg.  Season  them 
with  pepper  and  salt,  lay  them  into 
a  stewpan  with  some  sliced  onion, 
and  cover  them  with  water  and  a 
little  gravy.  When  done  on  one 
side,  turn  the  steaks  on  the  other, 
and  thicken  the  gravy  at  the  same 
time  with  some  butter  and  flour.  A 
little  shalot  or  ketchup,  or  both, 
may  be  added  at  pleasure.  Twenty 
or  twenty-five  minutes  will  stew 
them,  but  long  stewing  will  make 
them  hard. 

STEWED  ONICMS.  Peel  six 
large  onions,  fry  them  gently  of  a 
Hue  brown,  but  do  not  blacken  them. 
Then  put  them  into  a  small  stew- 
pan,  with  a  little  weak  gravy,  pep- 
per and  salt.  Cover  and  stew  them 
gently  two  hours,  and  let  them  be 
lightlv  floured  at  first. 

STEWED  OX  CHEEK.  Soak 
and  cleanse  a  fine  cheek  the  day 
before  it  is  to  be  eaten.  Put  it  into 
a  stewpan  that  will  cover  close,  with 
three  quarts  of  water;  simmer  it 
after  it  has  first  boiled  up,  and  been 
well  skimmed.  In  two  hours  put  in 
plenty  of  carrots,  leeks,  two  or  three 
turnips,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
some  whole  pepper,  and  four  ounces 
of  allspice.  Skim  it  often,  and  when 
the  meat  is  tender,  take  it  out.  Let 
the  soup  get  cold,  take  oft'  the  cake 
of  fat,  and  serve  the  soup  separately, 
or  with  the  meat.  It  should  be  of 
a  fine  brown,  which  may  be  done 
by  adding  a  little  burnt  sugar,  or  by 
frying  some  onions  quite  brown  with 
flour,  and  simmering  them  with  it. 
This  last  method  improves  the  fla- 
vour of  all  soups  and  gravies  of  the 
brown  sort.  If  vegetables  are  not 
approved,  they  may  be  taken  out  of 
the  soup,  and  a  small  roll  be  toast- 
ed, or  bread  fried  and  added.  Ce- 
lery is  a  great  addition,  and  should 
always  be  served.  When  out  of 
season,  the  seed  of  it  gives  quite  as 
good  a  flavour,  boiled  in,  and  strain- 
'       406 


ed  oflf. — Another  way.  Soak  an  ox 
cheek  three  hours,  and  clean  it  with 
plenty  of  water.  Take  the  meat  otf 
the  bones,  and  put  it  into  a  stewpan 
with  a  large  onion,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  some  bruised  allspice,  pepper 
and  salt.  Lay  the  bones  on  the 
top,  pour  on  two  or  three  quarts  of 
water,  and  cover  the  pan  close  with 
stout  paper,  or  a  dish  that  will  fit 
close.  Let  it  stand  eight  or  ten 
hours  in  a  slow  oven,  or  simmer  it 
by  the  side  of  the  fire,  or  on  a  hot 
hearth.  When  done  tender,  put  the 
meat  into  a  clean  pan,  and  let  it  get 
cold.  Take  oft'  the  cake  of  fat,  and 
warm  the  head  in  pieces  in  the  soup. 
Serve  w  ith  any  sort  of  vegetables. 

STEWED  OYSTEPvS.  Open  the 
shells,  separate  the  liquor  from  the 
oysters,  and  wash  them  from  the 
grit.  Strain  the  liquor,  add  to  the 
oysters  a  bit  of  mace,  lemon  peel, 
and  a  few  white  peppers.  Simmer 
them  very  gently,  put  in  some  cream, 
a  little  flour  and  butter,  and  serve 
them  up  with  sippets.  Boiled  oys- 
ters should  be  served  in  the  shell, 
and  eaten  with  cold  butter. 

STFAVED  PARSNIPS.  Boil  the 
parsnips  in  milk  and  water,  or  milk 
alone,  till  fully  half  done.  Slice  and 
divide  them  into  two,  down  the 
middle  and  across.  Stew  them  gently 
with  some  good  gravy,  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt ;  and  five  mi- 
nutes before  they  are  taken  up,  add 
apiece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  If 
parsnips  are  to  be  stewed  white,  put 
in  broth  and  cream  in  equal  quan- 
tities, instead  of  gravy. 

STEWED  PEARS.  Pare  and 
quarter  some  large  pears  ;  throw 
them  "into  water  as  soon  as  pared, 
and  before  they  are  divided,  to  pre- 
vent their  turning  black.  Pack  them 
round  a  block-tin  stewpan,  and 
sprinkle  as  much  sugar  over  as  will 
make  them  pretty  sweet.  Add  le- 
mon peel,  a  clove  or  two,  and  some 
bruised  allspice  ;  just  cover  them 
with  water,  and  add  a  liule  red 
liquor.    Cover  them  close,  and  stpw 


STA 


STA 


three  or  four  hours  :  when  tender, 
take  them  out,  and  pour  the  liquor 
upon  them. 

STEWED  PEAS.  Steep  some 
old  peas  in  water  all  night,  if  not 
fine  boilers  ;  otherwise  only  half  an 
hour.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan  of 
water,  just  enough  to  cover  them, 
with  a  good  bit  of  butter,  or  a  piece 
of  beef  or  pork.  Stew  them  very 
gently  till  the  peas  are  soft,  and 
the  meat  is  tender.  If  it  be  not 
salt  meat,  add  salt  and  a  little  pep- 
per, and  serve  the  peas  round  the 
meat. 

STEWED  PHEASANTS.  Stew 
your  pheasants  in  a  strong  veal  gra- 
vy. While  they  are  simmering, 
prepare  artichoke  bottoms  cut  in 
dice,  and  some  chesnuts  roasted, 
blanched,  and  cut  in  four:  let  your 
pheasants  stew  till  your  gravy  is 
half  wasted,  then  scum  it  very  clean, 
and  put  in  your  chesnuts  and  arti- 
choke bottoms  ;  season  with  a  little 
beaten  mace,  pepper,  and  salt,  a 
small  glass  of  white  wine,  and  a  lit- 
tle juice  of  lemon.  If  your  sauce  is 
not  thick  enough,  roll  a  piece  of 
butter  in  flour,  and  let  it  boil  up  : 
in  case  any  scum  arises,  take  it  clean 
oflf;  dish  your  pheasants,  and  pour 
the  sauce  over  them  ;  garnish  with 
lemon. 

STEWED  PIGEONS.  See  that 
they  are  quite  fresh,  carefully  crop- 
ped, drawn,  and  washed  ;  then  soak 
them  half  an  hour.  In  the  mean 
time  cut  a  hard  white  cabbage  in 
slices,  as  if  for  pickling,  and  put  it 
in  water.  Then  drain  and  boil  it  in 
milk  and  water  ;  drain  it  again,  and 
lay  some  of  it  at  the  bottom  of  a 
stewpan.  Put  the  pigeons  upon  it, 
but  first  season  them  well  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  cover  them  with 
the  remainder  of  the  cabbage.  Add 
a  little  broth,  and  stew  gently  till 
the  pigeons  are  tender  ;  then  put 
among  them  two  or  three  spoonfuls 
of  cream,  and  a  piece  of  butter  and 
flour  for  thickening.  After  a  boil 
or  two,  serve  up  the  birds  in  the 


middle  of  the  dish,  with  the  cabbage 
placed  round  them. — Another  way 
is  to  stew  the  birds  in  a  good  brown 
gravy,  either  stuft'ed  or  not;  and 
seasoned  high  with  spice  and  fresh 
mushrooms,  or  a  little  ketchup. — 
Another  way.  Take  your  pigeons 
trussed  as  for  baking  ;  bruise  the 
livers,  and  mix  them  up  with  a  few 
bread  crumbs,  parsley,  and  a  little 
lemon  peel  chopped  small  ;  season 
it  with  mace,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and 
salt ;  work  all  up  with  a  piece  of 
butter,  and  stuff"  the  bellies  of  your 
pigeons  ;  tie  up  the  necks  and  vents; 
then  stew  them  with  some  butter, 
till  they  are  brown  all  over ;  put 
them  into  another  pan  that  wjll  just 
hold  them,  with  as  much  strong 
gravy  as  will  cover  them  ;  let  them 
stew  till  they  are  tender,  then  bruise 
an  anchovy,  a  shalot  shred  fine,  a 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and 
a  spoonful  of  white  wine  ;  let  all 
boil  together  to  a  proper  thickness ; 
scum  very  clean  ;  dish  up,  and  gar- 
nish with  crisp  bacon  and  lemon. 

STEWED  PIPPINS.  Scoop  out 
the  core  of'some  golden  pippins,  pare 
them  very  thin,  and  throw  them  into 
water.  For  every  pound  of  fruit,  make 
half  a  pound  of  refined  sugar  into  a 
syrup,  with  a  pint  of  water.  When 
skimmed,  put  in  the  pippins,  and  stew 
them  quite  clear.  Grate  some  lemon 
over,  be  careful  not  to  break  them, 
and  serve  them  up  in  the  syrup.  They 
make  an  elegant  corner  dish,  or  a 
dessert. — Another  way.  Pare  your 
pippins  nicely,  cut  them  in  halves,  and 
take  out  the  cores ;  to  a  quart  of  spring 
water,  put  a  pound  of  double  refined 
sugar,  and  a  piece  of  lemon-peel; 
boil  it  almost  to  a  syrup  ;  take  out 
the  peel,  and  put  in  the  pippins ;  boil 
them  till  they  are  pretty  tender,  then 
draw  them  to  one  side  of  the  fire,  and 
let  them  stew  till  clear  ;  take  them 
out  carefully  one  at  a  time,  and  lay 
them  in  a  china  or  earthen  dish  for 
use.  If  golden  pippins  are  done  this 
way,  they  are  very  little  inferior  to 
apricots, 

407 


SPL 


SPO 


STEWED  PORK  STEAKS.  Cut 
some  steaks  from  the  best  end  of  a 
loin  or  neck  of  pork.  Take  off  the 
skin,  and  nearly  all  the  fat,  and  fry 
them  of  a  nice  brown.  Put  the  steaks 
into  a  stewpan,  with  good  gravy 
enough  to  make  a  proper  sauce  to 
them,  adding  pepper  and  salt.  Ten 
minutes  before  they  are  done,  thicken 
the  gravy  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour.  A  little  shalot,  or  ketchup, 
or  both  may  be  added. 

STEWED  POTATOES.  Half  boil 
some  potatoes,  drain  and  peel  them 
nicely,  and  cut  them  into  neat  pieces. 
Put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  some 
cream,  fresh  butter,  and  salt,  each 
proportioned  to  the  quantity  of  pota- 
toes ;  or  stew  them  in  good  gravy, 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Simmer  them 
gently  till  they  are  well  done  and  be 
careful  not  to  let  them  break. 

STEWED  PRUNES.  Stew  some 
prunes  gently  in  a  little  water,  till  the 
stones  will  slip  out  easily,  but  they 
must  not  be  boiled  too  much.  These 
are  useful  in  fevers,  or  in  any  com- 
plaint where  fruit  is  proper ;  and 
when  fruit  more  acid  would  not  agree. 

STEWED  RABBIT.  Divide  them 
into  quarters,  flour  and  fry  them  in 
butter ;  then  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan, with  some  good  gravy,  and  .a 
glass  of  white  wine.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  sprig  of  sweet 
herbs.  Cover  them  close,  and  let 
them  stew  till  th-ey  become  tender. 
Strain  off  the  sauce,  thicken  it  with 
flour  and  butter,  and  pour  it  over 
them. 

STEWED  RED  CABBAGE. 
Slice  a  small  red  cabbage,  or  half  a 
large  one,  and  wash  it  clean.  Put 
it  into  a  saucepan  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  butter,  but  no  water  except  what 
hangs  about  the  cabbage.  Stew  it 
tender,  and  when  ready  to  serve,  add 
two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  vinegar, 
and  give  it  one  boil  over  the  fire.  It 
may  be  eaten  with  cold  meat,  or  with 
sausages  laid  upon  it. — Another 
P  way.     Shred  the  cabbage,  and  wash 

it.     Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with 
408 


pepper,  salt,  some  slices  of  onion] 
and  a  little  plain  gravy.  When  it  is 
boiled  quite  tender,  add  a  bit  of  but- 
ter rubbed  with  flour,  a  few  minutes 
before  serving,  M'ith  two  or  three 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  boil  it  up. 
— Another.  Cut  the  cabbage  very 
thin,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
small  slice  of  ham,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  butter  at  the  bottom.  Put  in  half 
a  pint  of  broth,  and  a  gill  of  vine- 
gar, and  let  it  stew  three  hours  co- 
vered down.  When  it  is  very  ten- 
der, add  a  little  more  broth,  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  table-spoonful  of 
pounded  sugar.  Mix  these  well, 
and  boil  it  till  the  liquor  is  wasted. 
Then  put  it  into  the  dish,  and  lay 
fried  sausages  upon  it. 

STKWED  RUMP  OF  BEEF. 
Wash  it  well,  and  season  it  high  with 
pepper,  cayenne,  salt,  allspice, 
three  cloves,  and  a  blade  of  mace, 
all  in  fine  powder.  Bind  it  up  tight, 
and  lay  it  into  a  pot  that  will  just 
hold  it.  Fry  three  large  onions 
sliced,  and  put  them  to  it,  with  three 
carrots,  two  turnips,  one  shalot, 
four  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  and 
some  celery.  Cover  the  meat  with 
good  beef  broth,,  or  weak  gravy. 
Simmer  it  as  gently  as  possible  for 
several  hours,  till  quite  tender. 
Clear  oft*  the  fat,  and  add  to  the 
gravy  half  a  pint  of  port  wine,  a 
glass  of  vinegar,  and  a  large  spoon- 
ful of  ketchup  ;  half  a  pint  of  beer 
may  be  added.  Simmer  for  half 
an  hour,  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish. 
The  herbs  to  be  used  should  be 
burnet,  tarragon,  parsley,  thyme, 
basil,  savoury,  marjoram,  penny- 
royal, knotted  marjoram,  and  some 
chives  ;  a  good  handful  all  together. 
But  observe  to  proportion  the  quan- 
tities to  the  pungency  of  the  several 
sorts.  Garnish  with  carrots,  turnips, 
or  trufiies  and  morels,  or  pickles 
of  different  colours,  cut  small,  and 
laid  in  little  heaps  separate.  Chop- 
ped parsley,  chives,  and  beet  root 
may  be  added.  If  there  is  too  much 
gravy  for  the  dish,  take  only  a  part 


S  TE 


STE 


to  season  for  serving,  the  less  the 
better  ;  and  to  increase  the  richness, 
add  a  few  beef  bones  and  shanks  of 
mutton  in  stewing.  A  spoonful  or  two 
of  made  mustard  is  a  great  improve- 
ment to  the  gravy. — Another  way. 
Half  roast  the  rump,  then  put  it  into 
a  large  pot  with  three  pints  of  wa- 
ter, one  of  small  beer,  one  of  port 
vine,  some  salt,  three  or  four  spoon- 
fuls of  vinegar,  and  two  of  ketchup. 
Add  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  con- 
sisting of  burnet,  tarragon,  parsley, 
thyme,  basil,  savoury,  pennyroyal, 
marjoram,  knotted  marjoram,  and  a 
leaf  or  two  of  sage  ;  also  some  oni- 
r  ons,  cloves,  and  cayenne.  Cover  it 
close,  and  simmer  it  for  two  or  three 
hours,  till  quite  tender.  When  done 
lay  it  into  a  deep  dish,  set  it  over 
some  hot  water,  and  cover  it  close. 
Skim  the  gravy,  put  in  a  few  pickled 

i^  mushrooms,  truffles,  morels,  and 
oysters  if  agreeable,  but  it  is  very 
good  without.  Thicken  the  gravy 
with  flour  and  butter,  heat  it  with 
the  above,  and  pour  it  over  the  beef. 
Forcemeat  balls  of  veal,  anchovies, 
bacon,  suet,  herbs,  spice,  bread,  and 
eggs  to  bind,  are  a  great  improve- 
ment. A  rump  of  beef  is  excellent 
roasted  ;  but  in  the  country  it  is  ge- 
nerally sold  whole  with  the  edge- 
bone,  or  cut  across  instead  of  length- 
ways as  in  London,  where  one  piece 
is  for  boiling,  and  the  rump  for  stew- 
ing or  roasting.  This  must  be  at- 
tended to,  the  whole  being  too  large 
to  dress  together. — Another  way. 
Raise  the  lean  next  the  chump-end; 
cut  that  bone  off,  but  leave  the 
chine-bone,  then  with  two  skewers 
fasten  the  meat  as  if  the  bone  was 
not  taken  away  :  Put  it  into  a  pot 
|L.  M'ith  a  little  more  water  than  will 
K  cover  it :  Add  parsley,  thyme,  two 
P  or  three  large  onions,  a  handful  of 
I  salt,  whole  pepper  half  an  ounce, 
^  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves, 
the  same  quantity  of  mace  ;  cover  it 
close  down,  and  stew  it  over  a  slow 
tire  for  three  hours,  till  your  beef  is 
very  tender.  To  make  your  sauce, 
(No.  18.) 


take  two  pounds  of  gravy  beef,  cut 
it  in  pretty  thick  slices,  and  flour 
them  well;  put  a  piece  of  butter 
into  your  stewpan,  over  a  stove,  or  a 
quick  fire.  When  that  is  brown,  put 
in  the  slices  of  beef,  and  fry  them 
brown,  as  quick  as  you  can ;  then 
add  water  as  much  as  you  think  will 
be  sufficient  to  make  a  very  strong 
gravy  ;  cut  an  onion  cross  with  pars- 
ley, thyme,  pepper,  and  salt,  two  or 
three  cloves,  and  a  blade  of  mace  ; 
let  this  stew  till  your  gravy  is  very 
rich,  then  strain  it  oflf,  and  thickea 
it  up  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour. 

STEWED  SAVOYS.  These  may 
be  done  in  the  same  manner  as  red 
cabbage  ;  but  the  better  way  is  to 
boil  the  savoy  in  water  till  about  half 
done,  and  then  stew  it.  This  takes 
ofl^  the  strong  flavour,  and  makes  it 
much  more  agreeable. 

STEWED  SCALLOPS.  Boil 
them  very  well  in  salt  and  water ; 
take  out  the  fish,  stew  them  in  some 
of  their  liquor,  with  a  little  white 
wine,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace, 
a  little  nutmeg,  and  a  good  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour ;  let  them  be 
thoroughly  stewed,  then  pour  in  a 
little  cream,  shake  your  pan  round, 
and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  Seville 
orange.  Send  them  to  table  garnish- 
ed with  baked  sippets  and  orange. 

STEWED  SOLES.  Half  fry  them 
in  butter,  take  out  the  fish,  and  put 
a  quart  of  water  or  gravy  into  the 
pan,  two  anchovies,  and  a  sliced 
onion.  When  they  have  boiled 
slowly  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  put 
the  fish  in  again,  and  stew  them 
gently  about  twenty  minutes.  Take 
them  out,  thicken  the  liquor  with 
butter  and  flour,  boil  it  gently,  strain 
it  over  the  fish,  and  serve  it  with 
oyster,  cockle,  or  shrimp  sauce. 

STEWED  SORREL.  Wash  it 
clean,  and  put  it  into  a  silver  vessel, 
or  stone  jar,  with  no  more  water 
than  hangs  to  the  leaves.  Simmer 
it  as  slowly  as  possible  ;  and  when 
done  enough,  beat  it  up  with  a  piece 

»  G  409 


STE 


STE 


of  butter.  This  is  very  fine  with  a 
fricandeau,  with  roast  meat,  mack- 
arel,  or  any  thing  usually  eaten  with 
an  acid  sauce.  The  same  thicken- 
ing may  be  added,  as  for  spinach 
and  sorrel.  It  is  as  well  prepared 
in  a  stone  jar  set  before  the  fire,  only 
it  requires  a  longer  time. 

STEWED  SPINACH  WITH 
CREAM.  Boil  the  spinach  till  nearly 
done  enough,  then  squeeze  all  the 
water  from  it,  and  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  some 
salt.  Stir  it  over  the  fire  till  the  but- 
ter is  well  mixed  in  with  it,  and  add 
as  much  cream  as  will  make  it  of  a 
moderate  thickness.  Shake  it  for  a 
minute  or  two  over  the  fire,  and  serve 
it  up  with  sippets  of  bread,  either 
fried  or  toasted. 

STEWED  SPINACH  WITH 
GRAVY.  Pick  the  spinach  nicely, 
then  wash  it  well,  and  put  it  into  a 
stewpan,  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
water,  and  a  little  salt.  Stew  this 
till  quite  tender,  shaking  the  pan 
very  often  to  prevent  its  burning. 
When  done  enough,  put  it  into  a 
sieve  to  drain,  and  give  it  a  slight 
squeeze.  Beat  the  spinach  well, 
then  return  it  to  the  stewpan  with 
some  gravy,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  piece 
of  butter.  Let  it  stew  about  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour,  stirring  it  frequently. 
Serve  it  up  either  in  a  dish  by  itself, 
or  witii  poached  eggs  upon  it,  ac- 
cording to  the  occasion  for  which  it 
is  wanted. 

STEWED  SPINACH  WITH 
SORREL.  Take  spinach  and  sorrel, 
in  the  proportion  of  three  fourths  of 
spinach  to  one  of  sorrel.  Pick  and 
wash  these  very  nicely  ;  cut  them  a 
little,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan, 
with  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  water. 
Keep  them  stirring  over  the  fire,  till 
they  begin  to  soften  and  to  liquify. 
Then  leave  it  to  stew  at  a  distance 
over  the  fire  for  an  hour  or  more, 
stirring  it  every  now  and  then. 
Thicken  it  with  a  little  flour,  and 
when  quite  done,  add  some  pepper 
and  salt,  and  serve  it  up.  This  will 
410 


form  an  excellent  sauce  to  all  kinds 
of  meat,  or  to  eat  with  potatoes. 
Almost  any  kind  of  cold  vegetables 
may  be  added  to  this  stew.  They 
should  be  put  in  just  long  enough  to 
heat,  and  mixed  in  properly  with  the 
spinach  before  it  is  served  up. 

STEWED  TONGUE.  Prepare 
a  tongue  with  saltpetre  and  common 
salt  for  a  week,  and  turn  it  every  day. 
Boil  it  tender  enough  to  peel,  and 
afterwards  stew  it  in  a  moderately 
strong  gravy.  Season  it  with  soy, 
mushroom  ketchup,  cayenne,  pound- 
ed cloves,  and  salt  if  necessary. 
Serve  with  truffles,  morels,  and  mush- 
rooms. The  roots  of  the  tongue 
must  be  removed  before  it  is  salted, 
but  some  fat  should  be  left. 

STEWED    TURKEY.      Have  a 
nice  hen  turkey  trussed  close,  and 
the  breast-bone  broken ;  put  it  into 
a  stewpan  with  a  good  piece  of  but- 
ter ;  let  the  breast  and   pinions  be 
glazed  of  a  fine  brown  ;  then  put  it 
into  a  stewpan  that  is  very  clean  ; 
and  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion 
stuck  with  three  cloves,  two  blades 
of  mace,  some  whole  pepper,  and  a 
little   salt ;    then   put   in   as   much 
strong  broth  or  gravy  as  will  just 
cover  it ;  cover  it  very  clos^,  and  let 
it  stew  over  a  moderate  fire,  till  you 
think  it  is  tender  ;  in  the  mean  time 
make  some  forcemeat  balls  of  veal, &c.      i 
and  let  them  be  fried  of  a  fine  brown,      | 
in  readiness.      When    your  turkey 
is  done,  take  it  up,  put  it  into  your 
dish,  and  keep  it  hot ;  strain  ofl'your 
liquor   into  a   clean    stewpan,    and 
scum  it  very  clean  :  if  it  is  not  thick     | 
enough,  roll  apiece  of  butter  in  flour; 
put  in  half  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and 
your   forcemeat   balls;    toss  up  all 
together,  till  your  sauce  is  of  a  good 
thickness;  squeeze  in  a  little  lemon  ; 
pour  your  sauce  over  the  turkey,  and 
garnish  your  dish  with  lemon.     In 
the  same  manner  you  may  do  a  large 
fowl  ;    and   you   may    add  morels, 
truffles,    artichoke    bottoms,   &c. — 
Another.     Put  turkey  or  fowl  into  a 
stewpan,  with  a  sufficient  -quantity 


STE 


ST  I 


of  gravy  or  good  broth,  a  head  of 
celery  cut  small,  whole  pepper,  and 
a  sprig  of  thyme  tied  up  in  a  muslin 
bag.  When  these  are  stewed  enough, 
take  them  up,  thicken  the  liquor  with 
flour  and  butter,  lay  the  meat  in  a 
dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

STEWED  VEAL.  Cut  off  the 
neck  end  of  a  breast  of  veal,  and 
stew  it  for  gravy.  Make  a  forcemeat 
of  the  sweetbread  boiled,  a  few 
crumbs  of  bread,  a  little  beef  suet, 
an  eg^f  pepper  and  salt,  a  spoonful 
or  two  of  cream,  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg.  Mix  them  all  together, 
raise  the  thin  part  of  the  breast, 
and  put  in  the  stuffing.  Skewer  the 
skin  close  down,  dredge  it  over  with 
flour,  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth,  and  stew 
it  in  milk  and  water  rather  more  than 
an  hour :  if  a  large  one,  an  hour 
and  a  half.  The  proper  sauce  for 
this  dish  is  made  of  a  little  gravy,  a 
few  oysters,  a  few  mushrooms  chop- 
ped fine,  and  a  little  lemon  juice, 
thickened  with  flour  and  butter.  If 
preferred,  the  veal  may  be  stewed  in 
broth,  or  weak  gravy.  Then  thicken 
the  gravy  it  was  stewed  in,  pour  it 
over  the  veal,  and  garnish  with  force- 
meat balls. 

STEWED  VENISON.  Let  the 
meat  hang  as  long  as  it  will  keep 
sweet.  Take  out  the  bone,  beat 
the  meat  with  a  rolling-pin,  lay  on 
some  slices  of  mutton  fat,  sprinkle 
over  it  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  roll 
it  up  light  and  tie  it.  Stew  it  in 
mutton  or  beef  gravy,  with  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  port  wine,'  some  pepper 
and  allspice.  Cover  it  close,  and 
simmer  it  as  slowly  as  possible  for 
three  or  four  hours.  When  quite 
tender  take  off  the  tape,  lay  the 
meat  on  a  dish,  strain  the  gravy 
over  it,  and  serve  it  up  with  currant 
jelly. 

STEWED  WATER  CRESSES. 
Pick  and  wash  a  quantity  of  water 
cresses,  and  boil  them  for  a  few  mi- 
nutes. Drain  and  press  them  dry, 
chop  them  slightly,  and  put  them  into 
a  stewpan,  either  with  good  gravy  or 


cream,  and  a  seasoning  of  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  a  thickening  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  if  necessary.  Stew 
them  gently  for  ten  minutes,  or  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  and  serve  them 
up  with  a  garnish  of  sippets,  of  fried 
or  toasted  bread. 

STICKING  PLASTER.  Melt 
three  ounces  of  diachylon  with  half 
an  ounce  of  rosin,  and  when  cooled 
to  about  the  thickness  of  treacle, 
spread  it  upon  a  piece  of  smooth  soft 
linen. 

STILTON  CHEESE.  This  rich 
and  relishing  article  is  made  in  tht 
following  manner.  The  night's  cream 
is  put  into  the  morning's  milk,  with 
the  rennet.  When  the  curd  is  come, 
it  is  not  broken,  as  is  usually  done 
with  other  cheese,  but  taken  out 
whole,  and  put  into  a  sieve  to  drain. 
Here  it  is  pressed  till  it  becomes 
firm  and  dry,  when  it  is  placed  in  a 
wooden  hoop  made  to  fit  it,  in  order 
to  prevent  its  breaking.  After  being 
taken  out  of  the  hoop,  the  cheese  is 
bound  with  cloths,  which  are  changed 
every  day,  till  it  is  sufficiently  firm 
to  support  itself.  The  cloths  are 
then  removed,  and  the  cheese  is  rub- 
bed with  a  brush  and  turned  every 
day.  The  rennet  bag  should  be 
kept  perfectly  sweet  and  fresh  :  if  it 
be  in  the  least  degree  tainted,  the 
cheese  will  never  have  a  good  fla- 
vour. 

STINGS.  The  stings  of  bees  are 
often  more  virulent  than  those  of 
wasps,  and  attended  with  more  pain- 
ful effects.  The  sting  being  barbed, 
it  is  always  left  in  the  wound.  When 
therefore  a  person  is  stung  by  a  bee, 
the  sting  should  be  instantly  extract- 
ed, or  it  will  communicate  more  of 
its  poison,  according  to  the  time  it 
is  permitted  to  remain.  It  should 
be  carefully  pulled  out  with  a  steady 
hand,  for  if  any  of  it  break  in,  re- 
medies will  in  a  great  measure  be  in- 
effectual. When  the  sting  is  com- 
pletely extracted,  the  wounded  part 
should  be  sucked,  and  very  little  in- 
flammation will  ensue.  If  a  few  drops 
411 


STO 


STO 


of  the  spirits  of  hartshorn  be  imme- 
diately rubbed  on  the  part  affected, 
the  cure  will  be  more  speedily  ac- 
complished. Another  simple  reme- 
dy is,  a  solution  of  indigo  in  water, 
or  of  potash,  a  little  oil  of  tartar,  or 
common  sweet  oil,  rubbed  upon  the 
part.  Honey  and  olive  oil,  or  some 
bruised  malloM's,  may  occasionally 
be  substituted  with  advantage  ;  but 
their  application  should  be  repeated 
till  the  pain  ceases.  Rubbing  on  a 
little  common  salt,  after  it  has  been 
moistened,  is  also  said  to  be  an  ef- 
fectual cure.  If  a  wasp  or  bee  has 
been  incautiously  swallowed  in  a 
glass  of  liquor,  take  a  spoonful  of 
common  salt,  or  repeated  doses  of 
salt  and  water.  This  will  immedi- 
ately kill  the  insect,  and  prevent  the 
injurious  effects  of  the  sting.  To 
remove  the  disagreeable  itching 
which  arises  from  the  sting  of  gnats, 
wash  the  part  directly  with  cold 
water ;  or  at  night,  rub  on  fuller's 
earth  mixed  with  water. 

STOCK.  To  make  a  clear  brown 
stock,  for  gravy  or  gravy  soup,  put 
into  a  stewpan  with  two  quarts  of 
water,  a  pound  of  lean  beef,  a  pound 
of  the  lean  of  a  gammon  of  bacon, 
all  sliced.  Add  two  or  three  scraped 
carrots,  two  onions,  two  turnips,  and 
two  heads  of  sliced  celery.  Stew  the 
meat  quite  tender,  but  do  not  let  it 
brown.  When  thus  prepared,  it  will 
serve  either  for  soup,  or  hfown  or 
white  gravy.  If  for  brown,  put  in 
some  soup  colouring,  and  boil  it  a 
few  minutes. 

STOCK-FISH.  Put  it  into  water, 
and  let  it  remain  there  two  days, 
shifting  the  water  often  ;  then  take 
it  out,  and  clean  the  skin  and  inner 
part  with  a  hard  brush,  and  hang  it 
up  for  one  night  in  the  air.  In  the 
morning  put  it  again  into  water,  and 
let  it  remain  till  the  next  morning, 
shifting  the  water  often  ;  take  it  out, 
and  hang  it  up  for  another  day,  when 
it  will  be  fit  for  dressing.  Roll  up 
the  fish  round,  and  tie  it  close  with 
a  tape  ;  put  it  into  a  fish-kettle,  the 
412 


water  of  which  simmers  when  you 
put  it  on  :  let  it  remain  simmering 
for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  then 
let  it  boil  for  five  minutes,  and  the 
•  fish  is  enough. 

STOMACHIC  TINCTURE.  In 
low  nervous  affections  arising  from 
a  languid  circulation,  and  when  the 
stomach  is  in  a  state  of  debility,  the 
following  tincture  will  be  found  to 
be  strengthening  and  beneficial.  An 
ounce  and  a  half  of  peruvian  bark 
bruised,  and  an  ounce  of  orange  peel, 
steeped  in  a  pint  of  the  best  brandy, 
for  ten  days.  Shake  the  bottle  every 
day,  then  let  it  settle  for  two  days, 
and  decant  off  the  clear  liquor. 
Take  a  tea-spoonful  of  the  tincture 
in  a  wineglass  of  water,  twice  a  day, 
when  the  stomach  feels  empty  and 
uneasy,  an  hour  before  dinner,  and 
also  in  the  evening.  This  agreeable 
aromatic  tonic  will  procure  an  ap- 
petite, and  aid  digestion.  Tea  made 
with  dried  Seville  orange  peel,  in 
the  same  way  as  common  tea,  and 
drunk  with  milk  and  sugar,  has  been 
taken  by  nervous  persons  with  great  J 
benefit.  Sucking  a  bit  of  dried  ' 
orange  peel  about  an  hour  before 
dinner,  when  the  stomach  is  empty, 
is  very  grateful  and  strengthen- 
ing:. 

STONE  STAIRS  AND  HALLS. 
In  order  to  clean  these  properly, 
boil  a  pound  of  pipe-maker's  clay 
with  a  quart  of  water,  a  quart  of 
small  beer,  and  a  bit  of  stone  blue. 
Wash  the  stairs  or  the  floor  with  this 
mixture,  and  when  dry,  rub  it  with 
flannel  and  a  brush. 

STOPPLES.  When  a  glass  stop- 
ple is  set  fast,  in  a  bottle  or  decanter, 
rub  a  drop  or  two  of  olive  oil  round 
it,  close  to  the  mouth  of  the  de- 
canter, and  place  it  near  the  fire. 
The  oil  will  soon  insinuate  itself 
downwards,  and  the  stopple  may 
then  be  loosened  by  the  hand,  or  by 
striking  it  lightly  with  a  piece  of 
softwood.  Sometimes  the  rubbing 
of  the  neck  of  the  bottle  with  a  small 
key,  and  striking  the  head  of  the 


STO 


STO 


stopper,  will  be  sufficient  to  loosen 
it,  without  the  application  of  any 
oil. 

STORING.  The  storing  of  fruits, 
vegetables,  and  roots,  has  been  per- 
formed in  various  ways,  which  are 
well  known  already ;  but  lately  some 
better  modes  have  been  suggested 
for  this  purpose.  For  apples  and 
pears,  after  they  have  been  carefully 
gathered  from  the  trees,  and  laid  in 
heaps  covered  with  clean  cloths  or 
mats  for  sweating,  which  is  effected 
in  three  or  four  days,  they  remaining 
for  that  length  of  time  afterwards, 
they  are  to  be  wiped  separately  with 
clean  cloths ;  when  some  glazed 
earthen  jars  are  to  be  provided  with 
tops  and  covers,  and  likewise  a  quan- 
tity of  pure  pit-sand,  which  is  quite 
free  from  any  mixture.  This  is  to 
be  thoroughly  dried  upon  a  flue. 
Then  put  a  layer  of  this  sand  an 
inch  thick  on  the  bottoms  of  the  jars  ; 
above  this  layer  of  fruit,  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  free  of  each  other ;  cover- 
ing the  whole  with  sand  to  the  depth 
of  an  inch ;  then  a  second  course  of 
fruit  is  to  be  laid  in,  and  again  co- 
vered with  an  inch  of  the  sand,  pro- 
ceeding in  the  same  way  until  the 
whole  be  finished  and  completed. 
An  inch  and  a  half  in  depth  of  sand 
may  be  laid  over  the  last  or  upper- 
most layer  of  fruit ;  when  the  jars 
are  to  be  closed  and  placed  in  some 
dry  situation,  as  cool  as  possible, 
but  entirely  out  of  the  way  of  frost. 
The  usual  time  at  which  each  kind 
of  such  fruits  should  be  ready  for  the 
table  being  known,  the  jars  contain- 
ing such  fruit  may,  it  is  said,  be  ex- 
amined, by  turning  out  the  sand  and 
fruit  together  cautiously  into  a  sieve. 
The  ripe  fruit  may  then  be  laid  upon 
the  shelves  of  the  fruit-room  for  use, 
and  the  unripe  be  carefully  replaced 
in  the  jars  as  before,  but  with  fresh 
dry  sand.  Some  kinds  of  apples 
managed  in  this  way,  will,  it  is  said, 
keep  a  great  while,  as  till  July  ;  and 
pears  until  April,  and  in  some  sorts 
till  June.     It  is  not  improbable  but 


that  many  other  sorts  of  fruit  might 
be  stored  and  preserved  in  somewhat 
the  same  way.  Vegetables  of  the 
cauliflower  kind  have  been  stored  and 
kept  well  through  a  great  part  of  the 
winter,  by  putting  them,  when  in  full 
head,  on  a  dry  day,  into  pits  about 
eighteen  inches  in  depth,  and  much 
the  same  breadth,  in  a  perfectly  dry 
soil,  with  the  stalks  and  leaves  to 
them,  the  latter  being  carefully 
doubled  over  and  lapped  round  the 
heads,  instead  Of  hanging  them  up 
in  sheds  or  other  places,  as  is  the 
usual  practice  in  preserving  them. 
In  performing  the  work,  it  is  begun 
at  one  end  of  the  pits,  laying  the 
heads  in  with  the  root- stalks  upper- 
most, so  as  that  the  former  may  in- 
cline downwards,  the  roots  of  the 
one  layer  covering  the  tops  or  heads 
of  the  other,  until  the  whole  is  com- 
pleted. The  pits  are  then  to  be 
closely  covered  up  with  the  earth  in- 
to a  sort  of  ridge,  and  beaten  quite 
smooth  with  the  back  of  the  spade, 
in  order  that  the  rain-water  may  be 
fully  thrown  off.  Fine  cauliflowers 
have  been  thus  stored  and  kept  for 
the  occasional  supply  of  the  table 
until  the  middle  of  the  following  Ja- 
nuary. For  storing  and  preserving 
different  kinds  of  roots  for  common 
summer  use,  until  the  coming  in  or 
return  of  the  natural  crops,  the  fol- 
lowing method  has  likewise  been 
proposed.  As  the  ice  in  ic«-houses 
has  commonly  subsided  some  feet,  as 
four,  five,  or  more,  by  the  beginning 
of  the  spring,  it  is  proposed  to  de- 
posit in  the  rooms  or  vacancies  so 
left  empty,  the  roots  that  are  to  be 
preserved.  As  soon  as  any  openings 
in  the  places  have  been  well  stuffed 
with  straw,  and  the  surfaces  of  the 
ice  covered  with  the  sort  of  material, 
case-boxes,  dry  ware,  casks,  baskets, 
or  any  other  such  vessels,  are  to  be 
placed  upon  it,  which  are  then  to  be 
filled  with  the  roots,  such  as  turnips, 
carrots,  beets,  celery,  potatoes  in 
particular,  and  some  others.  In 
cases  where  there  are  not  ice-houses, 
413 


STO 


STR 


vegetation  may  be  greatly  retarded, 
and  the  roots  preserved  by  storing 
them  in  deep  vaulted  cellars,  caves, 
coal-pits,  mines,  or  in  any  place 
seated  deep  in  the  earth.  Potatoes 
have  also  been  well  stored  and  pre- 
served, it  is  said,  by  earthing  them 
in  small  parcels,  as  about  two  bolls 
each,  heaped  up,  and  covered  in  the 
usual  way  with  straw  and  earth  ; 
which  are  turned  over  into  other  pits 
in  the  early  spring,  first  rubbing  oft 
all  the  sprouts  or  shoots,  and  having 
the  roots  well  watered  in  small  quan- 
tities as  they  are  put  into  the  other 
pits,  the  whole  earthy  covering  being 
also  well  watered  and  beaten  toge- 
ther at  the  time  with  the  back  part 
of  the  spade.  This  covering  is  to 
be  made  to  the  thickness  of  about 
two  feet.  The  same  practice  or  pro- 
cess is  to  be  repeated  every  time  the 
potatoes  are  turned  over,  which 
should  be  about  once  in  three  weeks, 
as  the  state  of  the  weather  may  be. 
And  where  the  pits  or  heaps  are  not 
in  the  shade,  it  is  sometimes  proper, 
when  the  season  is  very  hot,  to  cover 
them  with  mats  supported  on  sticks, 
so  as  to  permit  a  free  current  of  air 
between  the  mats  and  the  heaps. 
In  this  way  it  is  stated  that  these 
roots  have  been  preserved  quite 
plump  and  entire  in  the  taste  until 
the  end  of  September,  or  till  the  suc- 
ceeding crop  becomes  perfectly  ripe, 
so  as  to  be  used  without  loss,  as 
that  must  always  be  the  case  where 
the  roots  are  largely  employed  be- 
fore they  are  in  a  state  of  mature 
growth.  It  is  asserted,  too,  that  in 
this  manner  potatoes  are  even  capa- 
ble of  recovering  in  plumpness  and 
taste,  where  they  have  been  suffered, 
by  improper  exposure  to  air  or  heat, 
to  become  deficient  in  these  qua- 
lities. 

STOVE  BLACKING,  for  backs 
of  grates,  hearths,  and  the  fronts  of 
stoves,  is  made  in  the  following  man- 
ner. Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
the  best  black  lead,  with  a  pint  of 
small  beer,  and  a  bit  of  soap  the  size 
414 


of  a  walnut.  When  that  is  melted, 
dip  in  a  painter's  brush,  and  wet  the 
grate,  having  first  cleared  off  all  the 
soot  and  dust.  Then  take  a  hard 
brush,  and  rub  it  till  it  is  quite 
bright.  A  mixture  of  black  lead 
and  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten  toge- 
ther, will  answer  the  same  purpose. 

STRAMONIUM.  This  celebated 
plant,  commonly  called  the  Thorn 
Apple,  often  grows  on  dunghills, 
and  flowers  in  the  month  of  July. 
Having  lately  been  discovered  as 
possessing  very  powerful  medical 
properties,  and  as  affording  the  most 
effectual  remedy  for  the  asthma,  it 
is  now  frequently  transplanted  into 
gardens,  though  its  odour  is  ex- 
tremely offensive.  A  kind  of  herb 
tobacco  is  made  of  the  dried  leaves, 
mixed  with  a  little  rosemary  to  pre- 
vent nausea,  and  a  pipeful  is  smoked 
in  the  evening  before  going  to  bed. 
The  practice  should  be  continued  for 
some  time,  or  as  often  as  asthma 
returns,  and  it  will  afford  very  sen- 
sible relief.  The  plant  may  easily 
be  raised  from  seed  ;  but  an  elegant 
preparation  of  the  stramonium,  or 
the  asthmatic  tobacco,  may  be  had 
of  several  medicine  vendors  in  the 
kingdom. 

STRAWBERRIES.  Sir  Joseph 
Banks,  from  a  variety  of  experiments, 
and  the  experience  of  many  years, 
recommends  a  general  revival  of  the 
now  almost  obsolete  practice  of  lay- 
ing straw  under  strawberry  plants, 
when  the  fruit  begins  to  swell ;  by 
which  means  the  roots  are  shaded 
from  the  sun,  the  waste  of  moisture 
by  evaporation  prevented,  the  lean- 
ing fruit  kept  from  damage,  by  rest- 
ing on  the  ground,  particularly  in 
wet  weather,  and  much  labour  in  wa- 
tering saved.  Twenty  trusses  of  long 
straw  are  sufficient  for  1800  feet  of 
plants.  On  the  management  of 
strawberries  in  June  and  July,  the 
future  prosperity  of  them  greatly 
depends  ;  and  if  each  plant  has  not 
been  kept  separate,  by  cutting  off 
the  runners,  they  will  be  in  a  state  of 


STR 


STR 


confusion,  and  you  will  find  three 
different  sorts  of  plants.  1.  Old 
plants,  whose  roots  are  turned  black, 
hard,  and  woody.  2.  Young  plants, 
not  strong  enough  to  flower.  3. 
Flowering  plants,  which  ought  only 
to  be  there,  and  perhaps  not  many 
of  them.  Before  the  time  of  flower- 
ing is  quite  over,  examine  them,  and 
pull  up  every  old  plant  which  has 
not  flowered  ;  for,  if  once  they  have 
omitted  to  flower  you  may  depend 
upon  it  they  will  never  produce  any 
after,  being  too  old,  and  past  bear- 
ing ;  but  to  be  fully  convinced,  leave 
two  or  three,  set  a  stick  to  them,  and 
observe  them  next  year.  If  the 
young  plants,  runners  of  last  year, 
be  too  thick,  take  some  of  them 
away,  and  do  not  leave  them  nearer 
than  a  foot  of  the  scarlet,  alpines, 
and  wood,  and  fifteen  or  sixteen 
inches  of  all  the  larger  sorts  ;  and  in 
the  first  rainy  weather  in  July  or  Au- 
gust, take  them  all  up,  and  make  a 
fresh  plantation  with  them,  and  they 
will  be  very  strong  plants  for  flower- 
ing next  year.  Old  beds,  even  if  the 
plants  be  kept  single  at  their  proper 
distance,  examine,  and  pull  all  the 
old  plants  which  have  not  flowered. 
When  the  fruit  is  nearly  all  gathered 
examine  them  again,  and  cut  off  the 
runners ;  but  if  you  want  to  make  a 
fresh  plantation,  leave  some  of  the 
two  first,  and  cut  off  all  the  rest. 
Then  stir  up  the  ground  with  a  trow- 
el, or  three-pronged  fork,  and  in  Au- 
gust they  will  befit  to  transplant.  If 
you  have  omitted  in  July  do  not  fail 
in  August,  that  the  runners  may  make 
good  roots  to  be  transplanted  in 
September,  for,  if  later,  the  worms 
will  draw  them  out  of  the  ground, 
and  the  frost  afterwards  will  prevent 
Ihetn  from  striking  root ;  the  conse- 
quence of  which  is,  their  not  flower- 
ing the  next  spring;  and  you  will 
lose  a  year. 

STRAWBERRY  AND  RASP- 
BERRY FOOL.  Bruise  a  pint  of 
scarlet  strawberries,  and  a  pint  of 
raspberries,   pass  them  through  a 


sieve,  and  sweeten  them  with  half  a 
pound  of  fine  sugar  pounded,  add  a 
spoonful  of  orange-flower  water, 
then  boil  it  over  the  fire,  for  two  or 
three  minutes;  take  it  off,  and  set 
on  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cream,  boil 
it  and  stir  it  till  it  is  cold  ;  when 
the  pulp  is  cold,  put  them  together, 
and  stir  them  till  they  are  well  mix- 
ed ;  put  the  fool  into  glasses,  or  ba- 
sins, as  you  think  proper. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM.  Dissolve 
four  pounds  of  lump  sugar  in  a  quart 
of  currant  juice,  then  boil  and  scum 
it  quite  clean.  Mash  four  quarts  of 
raspberries,  and  mix  with  it.  Let  it 
boil  quick,  over  a  clear  fire,  for 
nearly  an  hour,  or  till  the  sugar  and 
raspberries  are  quite  mixed.  This 
may  be  known  by  putting  a  little  on 
a  plate  ;  if  the  juice  drains  from  the 
fruit,  it  must  be  boiled  longer.  When 
done  enough,  put  it  into  pots,  and 
the  next  day  put  brandy  papers 
over  them.  Tie  them  down  with 
another  paper,  and  set  the  jars  in  a 
dry  place. 

STRAWBERRIES  PRESERVED. 
To  keep  whole  strawberries,  take 
equal  weights  of  the  fruit  and  double 
refined  sugar.  Lay  the  strawberries 
in  a  large  dish,  and  sprinkle  over 
them  half  the  sugar  in  fine  powder. 
Shake  the  dish  gently,  that  the  sugar 
may  touch  the  under  side  of  the 
fruit.  Next  day  make  a  thin  syrup 
with  the  remainder  of  the  sugar, 
and  instead  of  water,  allow  to  every 
pound  of  strawberries  a  pint  of  red 
currant  juice.  Simmer  the  fruit  in 
this,  until  sufficiently  jellied.  Choose 
the  largest  scarlet  strawberries,  be- 
fore they  are  dead  ripe.  They  will 
eat  well  in  thin  cream,  served  up  in 
srlasses. 

STRAWBERRIES  IN  WINE. 
Put  a  quantity  of  the  finest  strawber- 
ries into  a  gooseberry  bottle,  and 
strew  in  three  spoonfuls  of  fine  sugar. 
Fill  up  the  bottle  with  madeira,  or 
fine  sherry. 

STRENGTHENING  DRAUGHT. 
For  weakly  persons,  any  of  the  fol- 
415 


S  T  R 


ST  U 


lowing  preparations  will  be  Jiighly 
beneficial.  Put  two  calves'  feet  in 
two  pints  of  water,  and  the  same 
quantity  of  new  milk  ;  bake  them  in 
a  jar  closely  covered,  three  hours 
and  a  half.  When  cold  remove  the 
fat,  and  take  a  large  teacupful  of  the 
mucilage,  morning  and  evening.  It 
may  be  flavoured  by  baking  in  it 
lemon  peel,  cinnamon,  or  mace  :  su- 
gar is  to  be  added  afterwards. — Or 
simmer  six  sheeps'  trotters,  with  two 
blades  of  mace,  a  bit  of  cinnamon, 
lemon  peel,  a  few  hartshorn  shavings, 
and  a  little  isinglass,  in  two  quarts 
of  water  till  reduced  to  one.  When 
cold,  remove  the  fat,  and  take  nearly 
half  a  pint  twice  a  day,  warming  it 
with  a  little  new  milk. — Another 
way.  Boil  an  x)unce  of  isinglass 
shavings,  forty  peppercorns,  and  a 
bit  of  brown  crust  of  bread,  in  a 
quart  of  water,  till  reduced  to  a  pint, 
and  strain  it.  This  makes  a  pleasant 
jelly  to  keep  in  case  of  sickness,  and 
a  large  spoonful  may  be  taken  in 
wine  and  water,  in  milk,  tea,  soup, 
or  any  other  way. — Or  boil  a  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  of  isinglass  shavings 
with  a  pint  of  new  milk,  till  reduced 
one  half.  Add  a  little  sugar,  and 
for  a  change  a  bitter  almond.  Take 
this  at  bed-time,  but  not  too  warm. 
Dutch  flummery,  jellies,  orblamange, 
if  not  too  rich,  are  also  very  strength- 
ening. 

STRENGTHENING  JELLY. 
Put  an  ounce  of  isinglass  shavings, 
with  a  few  Jamaica  peppercorns, 
and  a  toast  of  bread.  Boil  it  to  a 
pint,  and  strain  it  oflf.  A  large  spoon- 
ful of  the  jelly  may  be  taken  in  wine 
and  water,  milk,  tea,  or  any  other 
agreeable  liquor.  Or  boil  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  isinglass  shavings  in 
a  pint  of  new  milk,  till  it  is  reduced 
to  half  a  pint,  adding  a  bitter  al- 
mond, or  a  little  sugar,  by  way  of 
change. 

STRONG   GRAVY.      Take   a 

stewpan  that  will  hold  four  quarts, 

lay  at  the  bottom  of  it  a  slice  or  two 

of  undressed  ham  or  bacon,  about  a 

416 


quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  two 
pounds  of  beef  or  veal.  Add  a  car- 
rot, a  large  onion  with  four  cloves 
stuck  in  it,  one  head  of  celery,  a 
bundle  of  parsley,  lemon  thyme,  and 
savoury  ;  a  few  leaves  of  sweet  basil, 
a  bay  leaf,  a  shalot,  a  piece  of  lemon 
peel,  and  a  dozen  corns  of  allspice. 
Pour  on  half  a  pint  of  water,  cover  it 
close,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  on  a 
slow  fire  for  half  an  hour,  in  which 
time  it  will  be  almost  dry.  Watch 
it  very  carefully,  and  let  it  take  a 
nice  brown  colour.  Turn  the  meat 
and  herbs,  to  brown  on  all  sides; 
then  put  in  a  pint  of  water  to  a 
pound  of  meat,  and  let  it  boil  for 
two  hours.  It  will  now  be  formed 
into  a  rich  strong  gravy,  easily  con- 
verted into  cuUis,  or  thickened  gravy. 
STUCCO.  A  stucco  for  walls,  &c. 
may  be  formed  of  the  grout  or  put- 
ty, made  of  good  stone-lime,  or 
the  lime  of  cockle-shells,  which  is 
better,  properly  tempered  and  suf- 
ficiently beat,  mixed  with  sharp  grit- 
sand,  in  a  proportion  which  depends 
on  the  strength  of  the  lime  :  drift- 
sand  is  best  for  this  purpose,  and  it 
will  derive  advantage  from  being: 
dried  on  an  iron  plate  or  kiln,  so  as 
not  to  burn  ;  for  thus  the  mortar 
would  be  discoloured.  When  this 
is  properly  compounded,  it  should 
be  put  up  in  small  parcels  against 
walls,  or  otherwise,  to  mellow,  as 
the  workmen  term  it ;  reduced  again 
to  a  soft  putty,  or  paste,  and  spread 
thin  on  the  walls  without  any  under- 
coat, and  well  trowelled.  A  succeed- 
ing coat  should  be  laid  on,  before  the 
first  is  quite  dry,  which  will  prevent 
joints  of  brick-work  appearing 
through  it.  Much  depends  upon 
the  workmen  giving  it  sufiicient  la- 
bour, and  trowelling  it  down.  If 
this  stucco,  when  dry,  is  laid  over 
with  boiling  linseed  oil,  it  will  last 
a  long  time,  and  not  be  liable,  when 
once  hardened,  to  the  accidents  to 
which  common  stucco  is  liable. 
Liardet's,  or,  as  it  is  commonly  call- 
ed, Adams  oil-cement,  or  stucco,  is 


STU 


STU 


pfepared  in  the  following  manner : 
for  the  first  coat,  take  twenty-one 
pounds  of  line  whiting,  or  oyster- 
shells,  or  any  other  sea-shells  cal- 
cined, or  plaster  of  Paris,  or  any 
calcareous  material  calcined  and 
pounded,  or  any  absorbent  material 
whatever,  proper  for  the  purpose ; 
add  white  or  red  lead  at  pleasure, 
deducting  from  the  other  absorbent 
materials  in  proportion  to  the  white 
or  red  lead  added  ;  to  which  put 
four  quarts,  beer  measure,  of  oil ; 
and  mix  them  together  with  a  grind- 
ing-mill,  or  any  levigating  machine  : 
and  afterwards  mix  and  beat  up  the 
same  well  with  twenty-eight  quarts, 
beer  measure,  of  any  sand  or  gravel, 
or  of  both,  mixed  and  sifted,  or  of 
marble  or  stone  pounded,  or  of 
brick-dust,  or  of  any  kind  of  metallic 
or  mineral  powders,  or  of  any  solid 
material  whatever,  fit  for  the  pur- 
pose. For  the  second  coat,  take 
sixteen  pounds  and  a  half  of  super- 
fine whiting,  or  oyster-shells,  or  any 
sea-shells  calcined,  &c.  as  for  the 
first  coat  ;  add  sixteen  pounds  and 
a  half  of  white  or  red  lead,  to  which 
put  six  quarts  and  a  half  of  oil, 
wine  measure,  and  mix  them  toge- 
ther as  before  :  afterwards  mix  and 
beat  up  the  same  well  with  thirty 
quarts,  wine  measure,  of  fine  sand 
or  gravel  sifted,  or  stone  or  marble 
pounded,  or  pyrites,  or  any  kind  of 
metallic  or  mineral  powder,  &c. 
This  composition  requires  a  greater 
proportion  of  sand,  gravel,  or  other 
solids,  according  to  the  nature  of  the 
work,  or  the  uses  to  which  it  is  to 
be  applied.  If  it  be  required  to  have 
the  composition  coloured,  add  to 
the  above  ingredients  such  a  propor- 
tion of  painter's  colours,  as  will  be 
necessary  to  give  the  tint  or  colour 
required.  In  making  the  compo- 
sition, the  best  linseed  or  hempseed, 
or  other  oils  proper  for  the  purpose, 
are  to  be  used,  boiled  or  raw,  with 
drying  ingredients,  as  the  nature  of 
the  work,  the  season,  or  the  climate 
requires  ;  and  in  some  cases,  bees' 


wax  may  be  substituted  in  ptace  of 
oil :  all  the  absorbent  and  solid  ma- 
terials must  be  kiln-dried.  If  the 
composition  is  to  be  of  any  other 
colour  than  white,  the  lead  may  be 
omitted,  by  taking  the  full  propor- 
tion of  the  other  absorbents ;  and 
also  white  or  red  lead  may  be  sub- 
stituted alone,  instead  of  any  other 
absorbent  material.  The  first  coat 
of  this  composition  is  to  be  laid  on 
with  a  trowel,  and  floated  to  an 
even  surface  with  a  rule  or  darby, 
(i.  e.  a  handle-float.)  The  second 
coat,  after  it  is  laid  on  with  a  trowel, 
when  the  other  is  nearly  dry,  should 
be  worked  down  and  smoothed  with 
floats  edged  with  horn,  or  any  hard 
smooth  substance  that  does  not  stain. 
It  may  be  proper,  previously  to  lay- 
ing on  the  composition,  to  moisten 
the  surface  on  which  it  is  to  be  laid 
by  a  brush  with  the  same  sort  of 
oil  and  ingredients  which  pass 
through  the  levigating  machine, 
reduced  to  a  more  liquid  state,  in 
order  to  make  the  composition  ad- 
here the  better.  This  composition 
admits  of  being  modelled  or  cast  in 
moulds,  in  the  same  manner  as  plas- 
terers or  statuaries  model  or  cast 
their  stucco  work.  It  also  admits 
of  being  painted  upon,  and  adorned 
with  landscape,  or  ornamental,  or 
figure-painting,  as  well  as  plain 
painting. — To  make  an  excellent 
stucco,  which  will  adhere  to  wood 
work,  take  a  bushel  of  the  best  stone 
lime,  a  pound  of  yellow  ochre,  and 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  um- 
ber, all  in  fine  powder.  Mix  them 
to  a  proper  thickness,  with  a  suf- 
ficient quantity  of  hot  water,  but 
not  boiling,  and  lay  it  on  with  a  new 
white-washer's  brush.  If  the  wall 
be  quite  smooth,  one  or  two  coats 
will  do  ;  but  each  must  be  dry  be- 
fore the  next  is  put  on.  The  month 
of  March  is  the  best  season  for  doing 
this. 

STUCCO  WASHES.  The  most 
beautiful  white-wash  is  made  of  clean 
good   lime     mixed   with   skim  milk 

3  H  il7  - 


ST  U 


STU 


instead  of  water.  For  Blue  wash, 
put  four  pounds  of  blue  vitriol  into 
an  iron  or  brass  pot,  with  a  pound 
of  the  best  whiting,  and  a  gallon  of 
water.  Let  it  boil  an  hour,  stirring 
it  all  the  time.  Then  pour  it  into 
an  earthen  pan,  and  set  it  by  for  a 
day  or  two  till  the  colour  is  settled. 
Pour  off  the  water,  and  mix  the  co- 
lour with  the  white-washer's  size. 
Wash  the  walls  over  three  or  four 
times,  according  as  it  may  be  neces- 
sary. To  make  Yellow  wash,  dis- 
solve in  soft  Mater  over  the  fire  equal 
quantities  of  umber,  bright  ochre, 
and  blue  black.  Add  as  much  white- 
wash as  is  necessary  for  the  work, 
and  stir  it  all  together.  If  either 
cast  predominates,  put  in  more  of 
the  others,  till  the  proper  tint  is  ob- 
tained. 

STUFFINGS.  Forcemeat  or  stuff- 
ing is  generally  considered  as  a  ne- 
cessary accompaniment  to  most  of 
the  made  dishes,  and  when  con^- 
posed  with  good  taste,  it  gives  to 
them  additional  spirit  and  relish. 
It  is  often  employed  in  making  of 
patties,  for  stuffing  of  veal,  game, 
and  poultry.  The  ingredients  should 
be  so  proportioned,  that  no  one  fla- 
vour predominates  ;  and  instead  of 
using  the  same  stuffing  for  veal,  hare, 
and  other  things,  it  is  easy  to  make 
a  suitable  variety.  The  poignancy 
of  forcemeat  should  be  regulated  by 
the  savouriness  of  the  viands,  to 
which  it  is  intended  to  give  an  ad- 
ditional zest.  Some  dishes  require 
a  very  delicately  flavoured  stuffing, 
while  for  others  it  should  be  full 
and  high  seasoned.  The  consistence 
of  forcemeats  is  attended  with  some 
difficulty  ;  they  are  almost  always 
either  too  heavy  or  too  light.  They 
should  be  mixed  perfectly  smooth, 
and  the  ingredients  thoroughly  in- 
corporated. Forcemeat  balls  must 
not  be  larger  than  a  small  nutmeg. 
If  for  brown  sauce,  flour  and  fry 
them  :  if  for  white  sauce,  put  them 
into  boiling  water,  and  boil  them 
for  three  minutes  :  the  latter  are  by 

41  a 


far  the  most  delicate.  Parboiled 
sweetbreads  and  tongues  are  the 
principal  ingredients  for  stuffing  or 
forcemeat.  Besides  these,  yolks  of 
hard  eggs,  flour,  bread  crumbs,  boil- 
ed onion,  mashed  potatoe,  mutton, 
beef,  veal  suet,  marrow,  calf's  ud- 
der or  brains,  veal  minced  and 
pounded,  and  potted  meats.  Also 
of  garden  herbs  and  roots,  parsley, 
thyme,  spinach,  marjoram,  savoury, 
tarragon,  sage,  chervil,  basil,  bur- 
net,  bay  leaf,  truffles,  morels,  mush- 
rooms, leeks,  shalot,  onions,  and 
garlic.  Of  fish,  shrimps,  prawns, 
crabs,  .ysters,  lobsters,  and  an- 
chovies. Of  spices,  pepper,  mace, 
allspice,  cinnamon,  ginger,  nutmeg, 
cayenne,  and  cloves.  These,  with 
bacon  and  ham,  form  the  principal 
ingredients  for  various  kinds  of  stuff- 
ing. The  liquids  in  general  consist 
of  meat  gravy,  lemon  juice,  syrup 
of  lemons,  essence  of  anchovy, 
mushroom  ketchup,  vegetable  es- 
sences, and  the  essence  of  spices. 

STUFFING  FOR  GOOSE.  Chop 
very  fine  one  or  two  onions,  and  a 
little  green  sage.  Add  a  large  tea- 
cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  a  very  lit- 
tle pepper  and  salt,  half  the  liver 
parboiled,  and  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  Incorporate  the  whole  well 
together,  put  it  into  the  goose,  but 
leave  a  little  room  for  the  stuffing  to 
swell. 

STUFFING  FOR  HARE.  Two 
ounces  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine, 
three  ounces  of  fine  bread  crumbs, 
a  little  parsley,  marjoram,  lemon 
thyme,  or  winter  savory  ;  a  dram  of 
grated  lemon  peel,  half  a  dram  of 
nutmeg,  of  shalot,  and  the  same  of 
pepper  and  salt.  Mix  these  with 
an  egg,  so  as  to  make  them  cohe- 
sive ;  but  if  the  stuffing  be  not  of  a 
sufficient  consistence,  it  will  be  good 
for  nothing.  If  the  liver  be  quite 
sound,  it  may  be  parboiled,  minced 
very  fine,  and  added  to  the  above. 
Put  the  stuffing  into  the  hare,  and 
sow  it  up. 

STUFFING    FOR    PIG.      Rub 


STU 


SUB 


some  of  the  crumb  of  a  stale  loaf 
through  a  cullender,  mince  fine  a 
handful  of  sage,  and  a  large  onion. 
Mix  these  together  with  an  egg, 
some  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  piece 
of  butter.  Fill  the  belly  of  the  pig 
with  the  stuffing,  and  sow  it  up. 
Lay  the  pig  to  the  fire,  and  baste  it 
with  salad  oil,  without  leaving  it  for 
a  moment. 

STUFFING  FOR  PIKE.  Take 
equal  parts  of  fat  bacon,  beef  suet, 
and  fresh  butter ;  some  parsley, 
thyme,  and  savoury  ;  a  small  onion, 
and  a  few  leaves  of  scented  mar- 
joram shred  fine ;  an  anchovy  or 
two,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  and 
some  pepper.  Oysters  will  be  an 
improvement,  with  or  without  an- 
chovies ;  add  some  crumbs,  and  an 
egg  to  bind. 

STUFFING  FOR  POULTRY. 
Mince  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef 
suet,  (marrow  is  better,)  the  same 
weight  of  bread  crumbs,  two  drams 
of  parsley  leaves,  nearly  as  much  of 
sweet  marjoram  or  lemon  thyme, 
and  the  same  of  grated  lemon  peel. 
Add  an  onion  or  shalot,  chopped  as 
fine  as  possible,  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg, pepper  and  salt.  Pound  all 
together  thoroughly,  with  the  yolk 
and  white  of  two  eggs.  This  is  about 
the  quantity  for  a  turkey  poult ;  a 
very  large  turkey  will  take  nearly 
twice  as  much.  To  the  above  may 
be  added  an  ounce  of  dressed  ham. 

STUFFING  FOR  VEAL.  Take 
an  equal  quantity  of  grated  bread 
and  beef  suet,  shred  very  fine.  Add 
parsley  and  sweet  herbs  chopped 
small,  a  minced  anchovy,  some  nut- 
meg, pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  little 
grated  lemon  peel.  Mix  these  well 
together  with  raw  egg  or  milk. 
This  stuffing  will  do  for  roast  tur- 
key or  hare.  • 

STURGEON.  Fresh  sturgeon 
should  be  cut  in  slices,  rubbed  over 
with  egg,  and  sprinkled  with  grated 
bread,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper. 
Then  fold  the  slices  in  white  paper, 
and  broil  them  gently.     For  sauce, 


send  up  butter,  anchovy,  and  soy. 
— Another  way.  Clean  the  stur- 
geon, and  prepare  as  much  liquor  as 
will  cover  it,  thus  :  take  a  pint  of 
vinegar,  about  two  quarts  of  water, 
a  stick  of  horseradish  cut  in  slips, 
some  lemon  peel,  two  or  three  bay 
leaves,  and  a  small  handful  of  salt, 
boil  it  in  this  pickle,  till  you  thin-k 
it  is  enough,  and  serve  it  with  the 
following  sauce  :  melt  a  pound  of 
butter,  with  an  anchovy  bruised, 
a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  the  body  of 
a  crab,  or  lobster  bruised,  a  little 
ketchup,  a  small  glass  of  white  wine, 
half  a  pint  of  white  shrimps,  boil  all 
together,  till  it  is  of  a  proper  thick- 
ness, squeeze  in  some  lemon,  and 
scraped  horseradish  ;  pour  a  little 
sauce  over  your  fish,  the  rest  send 
in  boats. 

STURTIUMS.  Gather  them 
young  and  dry,  and  put  them  into  a 
jar  of  old  vinegar,  which  has  been 
taken  from  green  pickles  and  onions. 
The  vinegar  must  be  boiled  afresh, 
or  boil  some  fresh  vinegar  with  salt 
and  spice,  and  when  cold,  put  in 
the  sturtiums. 

SUBSTITUTE  FOR  CREAM. 
As  milk  or  cream  is  difficult  to  pro- 
cure in  some  situations,  particularly 
during  a  long  voyage,  a  very  good 
substitute  may  be  found  in  beating 
up  a  fresh  egg,  and  gradually  pour- 
ing on  boiling  water  to  prevent  its 
curdling.  The  taste  of  this  compo- 
sition in  tea  will  scarcely  be  distin- 
guished from  the  richest  cream,  and 
eggs  may  easily  be  preserved  for  a 
considerable  length  of  time. 

SUBSTITUTE  FOR  GRAVY. 
Mix  a  gill  of  water,  a  gill  of  table 
beer,  a  spoonful  of  ketchup,  an  onion 
sliced  thin,  a  clove  or  two,  three  or 
four  peppercorns,  and  a  little  salt, 
all  together.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter, 
the  size  of  an  egg  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan, and  when  hot  dredge  in  some 
flour,  stirring  it  till  the  froth  sub- 
sides, by  which  time  it  will  be  brown- 
ed. Add  to  it  the  mixture  already 
prepared,  give  it  a  boil,  and  flavour 
419 


sue 


sue 


it  with  a  very  small  quantity  of  the 
essence  of  anchovy.    . 

SUeCORY.  Wild  white  succory 
is  only  good  to  eat  in  salads.  The 
green  is  used  to  put  into  cooling 
broths,  and  to  make  decoctions  in 
medicine,  eommon  white  succory 
is  eaten  in  salads,  and  used  for  ra- 
gouts. First  pick  and  wash  it,  then 
scald  it  half  an  hour  in  water,  put  it 
afterwards  into  fresh  water,  in  order 
to  press  it  well  with  the  hands.  Stew 
it  with  some  broth,  a  little  butter, 
and  some  cuUis,  if  any  at  hand.  If 
not,  brown  a  little  flour  to  thicken 
the  sauce.  When  done  enough, 
take  off  the  fat,  season  it  nicely,  and 
add  a  little  shalot.  Serve  it  under 
a  shoulder,  a  leg,  or  neck  of  mutton, 
roasted. 

SUeKERS.  The  season  for  tak- 
ing up  or  transplanting  suckers  of 
trees  and  shrubs,  is  almost  any  time, 
in  open  weather,  from  October  till 
March,  being  careful  to  dig  them  up 
from  the  mother-plant  with  as  much 
and  many  root-fibrjes  as  possible, 
and  trimming  them  ready  for  plant- 
ing, by  shortening  the  long  strag- 
gling fibres,  and  cutting  off  any 
thick-nobbed  part  of  the  old  root 
that  may  adhere  to  the  bottom, 
leaving  only  the  fibres  arising  from 
the  young  wood  ;  though  it  is  pro- 
bable some  will  appear  with  hardly 
any  fibres  ;  but  as  the  bottom  part, 
having  been  under  ground,  and  con- 
tiguous to  the  root  of  the  main  plant, 
is  naturally  disposed  to  send  forth 
fibres  for  rooting;  preparatory  to 
planting  them  out,  the  stems  of  the 
shrub  and  tree-suckers  should  like- 
wise be  trimmed  occasionally,  by  cut- 
ting off  all  lower  laterals ;  and  any 
having  long,  slender,  and  weak  tops, 
or  such  as  are  intended  to  assume  a 
more  dwarfish  or  bushy  growth,  may 
be  shortened  at  top  in  proportion, 
to  form  about  half  a  foot  to  one  or 
two  feet  in  length,  according  to  their 
nature  or  strength  ;  and  others  that 
are  more  strong,  or  that  are  design- 
ed to  run  up  with  taller  stems,  may 
420 


have  their  tops  left  entire,  or  short- 
ened but  little  :  when  thus  taken  up 
and  trimmed,  they  should  be  planted 
out  in  rows  in  the  nursery  ;  the  weak 
suckers  separately  in  close  rows ; 
and  also  the  shortened  and  stronger 
plants,  each  separately  in  wider 
rows  ;  so  that  the  rows  may  be  from 
one  to  two  feet  asunder,  in  propor- 
tion to  the  size  and  strength  of  the 
suckers  :  and  after  being  thus  plant- 
ed out,  they  should  have  the  com- 
mon nursery-culture  of  cleaning  from 
weeds  in  summer,  and  digging  the 
ground  between  the  rows  in  winter, 
&c.  and  in  from  one  to  two  or  three 
years  they  will  be  of  a  proper  size 
for  planting  out  where  they  are  to 
remain  :  and  some  kinds  of  trees, 
large  shrubs,  &c.  produce  suckers 
strong  enough  in  one  season  to  be 
fit  for  planting  where  they  are  to 
remain  ;  as  well  as  some  sorts  of 
roses,  and  numerous  other  flowering 
shrubs ;  also  some  plants  of  the 
strong  shooting  gooseberries,  cur- 
rants, raspberries,  and  others  of 
similar  kinds.  It  may  generally  be 
observed  of  such  trees  and  shrubs 
as  are  naturally  disposed  to  send  up 
many  suckers,  that  by  whatsoever 
method  they  are  propagated,  whether 
by  seeds,  muckers,  layers,  cuttings, 
&c.  they  commonly  still  continue  they* 
natural  tendency  in  this  respect. 
When  it  is,  therefore,  required  to 
have  any  sorts  to  produce  as  few 
suckers  as  possible,  not  to  over-run 
the  ground,  or  disfigure  the  plants, 
it  is  proper,  both  at  the  time  of  se- 
parating the  suckers,  or  planting 
them  off  from  the  main  plants,  and 
at  the  time  of  their  final  removal 
from  the  nursery,  to  observe  if  at 
the  bottom  part  they  shew  any  ten- 
dency to  emit  suckers,  by  the  ap- 
pearance of  prominent  buds,  which, 
if  the  case,  should  all  be  rubbed  off 
as  close  as  possible :  as,  however, 
many  sorts  of  trees  and  shrubs  are 
liable  to  throw  out  considerably 
more  than  may  be  wanted,  they 
should  alwavs  be  cleared  away  an- 


sue 


SUE 


hually  at  least,  and  in  such  as  are 
not  wanted  for  increase,  it  is  proper 
to  eradicate  them  constantly,  as 
they  are  produced  in  the  spring  and 
summer  seasons.  Also  numerous 
herbaceous  and  succulent  plants  are 
productive  of  bottom  offset  suckers 
from  the  roots,  by  which  they  may 
be  increased.  In  slipping  and  plant- 
ing these  sorts  of  offset  suckers,  the 
smaller  ones  should  be  planted  in 
nursery  beds,  pots,  &c.  according 
to  the  nature  of  growth  and  tempera- 
ture of  the  different  sorts,  to  have 
the  advantage  of  one  summer's  ad- 
vanced growth  ;  and  the  larger  ones 
be  set  at  once,  where  they  arc  to 
remain,  in  beds,  borders,  pots,  &c. 
according  to  the  different  sorts  or 
descriptions  of  them.  The  suckers 
of  many  of  the  finer  kinds  of  flower- 
plants,  as  in  the  auricula  and  others, 
may  be  separated  or  taken  off  from 
the  parent  plants  any  time  between 
the  month  of  February  and  that  of 
August,  as  they  may  become  of  a 
proper  size,  or  be  wanted  for  in- 
crease ;  but  if  they  be  not  wanted 
for  this  use,  they  should  never  be 
suffered  to  remain.  They  can  often 
be  slipped  off  by  the  fingers,  or  a 
sharp  piece  of  wood,  without  re- 
moving much  earth,  or  the  plants 
from  the  pots ;  but  when  they  are 
large,  and  cannot  be  thus  separated 
with  a  sufficient  number  of  fibres  to 
their  bottom  parts,  they  may  be 
taken  out  of  the  pots,  and  be  re- 
moved by  the  knife  without  danger, 
which  is  perhaps  the  best  way,  as 
affording  most  fibres.  The  suckers 
of  such  old  flower-plants,  when  they 
are  wanted  to  blow  strong,  should 
always  be  taken  off  without  disturb- 
ing the  plants  in  the  pots,  especially 
when  they  are  few.  The  suckers,  in 
all  cases  of  this  sort,  should  con- 
stantly be  planted  as  soon  as  pos- 
sible after  they  are  slipped,  in  pro- 
per small  upright  pots,  giving  a 
slight  watering  at  the  time,  with  suit- 
able temporary  shade.  They  should 


be  placed  in  proper  situations  out 
of  the  droppings  of  trees.  They 
thus  soon  become  rooted.  The 
suckers  of  such  flower-plants  must, 
however,  never  be  removed  after  the 
latter  of  the  above  periods,  as  they 
have  then  done  shooting,  and  are 
become  inactive,  and  as  the  winter 
immediately  succeeds,  seldom  do 
well,  especially  without  great  care 
and  trouble. 

SUCKING  PIG.  When  the  pig 
has  been  killed  and  well  cleaned, 
cut  off  the  feet  at  the  first  joint,  and 
put  them  with  the  heart,  liver,  and 
lights,  to  boil  for  gravy.  Before  the 
pig  is  spitted,  chop  a  little  sage  very 
fine,  mix  it  with  a  handful  of  bread 
crumb,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and 
sow  it  up  in  the  belly.  Lay  it  down 
to  a  brisk  fire,  rub  it  with  butter 
tied  up  in  a  piece  of  thin  rag,  during 
the  whole  time  of  roasting.  Take 
off  the  head  while  at  the  fire,  take 
out  the  brains  and  chop  them,  mix 
them  with  the  gravy  that  comes 
from  the  pig,  and  add  a  little  melted  a* 
butter.  Before  the  spit  is  drawn,  |i 
cut  the  pig  down  the  back  and  bel- 
ly, and  lay  it  in  the  dish.  Put  a 
little  of  the  sauce  over  it,  take  the 
bottom  jaws  and  ears  to  garnish 
with,  and  send  brown  gravy  sauce 
to  table,  mixed  with  the  bread  and 
sage  that  comes  out  of  the  pig.  Cur- 
rant sauce  is  frequently  eaten  with 
it.  A  moderate  sized  pig  will  re- 
quire about  an  hour  and  a  half  roast- 
ing. 

SUET.  The  proper  way  of  treat-  , 
ing  suet,  is  to  choose  the  firmest 
part  as  soon  as  it  comes  in,  and 
pick  it  free  from  skin  and  veins. 
Set  it  in  a  nice  saucepan  at  some  dis- 
tance from  the  fire,  that  it  may  melt 
without  frying,  or  it  will  taste.  When 
melted,  pour  it  into  a  pan  of  cold 
water.  When  it  comes  to  a  hard 
cake,  wipe  it  very  dry,  fold  it  in  fine 
paper,  and  then  in  a  linen  bag.  Keep 
it  in  a  dry  cool  place.  Suet  prepared 
in  this  way,  will  keep  a  twelvemonth. 
421 


S  U  'Z 


SU  F 


When  used,  scrape  it  fine,  and  it 
will  make  a  good  crust,  either  with 
or  without  butter. 

SUET  DUMPLINS.  Take  a 
pound  of  suet,  or  the  outward  fat  of 
loins  or  necks  of  mutton,  and  shred 
it  very  fine.  Mix  it  well  with  a  pound 
and  a  quarter  of  flour,  two  eggs,  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  railk  to  make 
it,  and  a  little  salt.  Drop  the  batter 
into  boiling  water,  or  boil  the  dump- 
lins  in  a  cloth. 

SUET  DUMPLINS  WITH  CUR- 
RANTS. Take  a  pint  of  milk,  four 
eggs,  a  pound  of  suet  shred  fine,  and 
a  pound  of  currants  well  cleaned, 
two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt,  and  three 
of  beaten  ginger  ;  first  take  half  the 
milk  and  mix  it  like  a  thick  batter, 
then  put  in  the  eggs,  the  salt,  and 
ginger,  then  the  rest  of  the  milk  by 
degrees,  with  the  suet  and  currants, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  it  like  a 
light  paste.  Make  them  up  about 
the ,  bigness  of  a  large  turkey's  egg, 
flat  them  a  little,  and  put  them  into 
boiling  water  ;  move  them  softly  that 
they  do  not  stick  together,  keep  the 
water  boiling,  and  a  little  more  than 
half  an  hour  will  do  them. 

SUET  DUMPLINS  WITH  EGGS. 
Mix  up  a  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  beef 
suet  chopped  fine,  a  tea- spoonful  of 
grated  ginger,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  it  into  a  moderately  stiff*  paste. 
Make  the  paste  into  dumplins,  roll 
them  in  a  little  flour,  and  put  them 
into  boiling  water.  Move  them  gently 
for  a  little  while  to  prevent  their 
sticking  together.  If  the  dumplins 
are  small,  three  quarters  of  an  hour 
will  boil  them  ;  if  large,  the  time 
must  be  proportioned  to  their  size. 
They  will  boil  equally  well  in  cloths, 
which  is  often  preferred  for  keeping 
the  outside  drier. 

SUET  PUDDING.  Shred  a 
pound  of  suet ;  mix  with  it  a  pound 
and  a  quarter  of  flour,  two  eggs 
beaten  separately,  some  salt,  and  as 
little  milk  as  will  make  it.  Boil  the 
422 


pudding  four  hours.  It  eats  well 
the  next  day,  cut  in  slices  and  broil- 
ed. The  outward  fat  of  a  loin  or 
neck  of  mutton  finely  shred,  makes 
a  more  delicate  pudcjing  than  suet. 

SUET  PUDDING  WITH  EGGS. 
To  a  pound  of  beef  suet  chopped 
very  fine,  add  six  large  spoonfuls  of 
flour,  a  tea-spoonful  of  grated  gin- 
ger, and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Gra- 
dually mix  with  these  ingredients  a 
quart  of  milk,  and  four  eggs  well 
beaten.  Boil  it  three  hours  in  a 
buttered  basin,  or  two  hours  and  a 
half  in  a  cloth  well  floured. 

SUFFOCATION.  Immediately 
on  discovering  a  person  in  this  un- 
fortunate situation,  whatever  be  the 
cause,  the  windows  and  doors  ought 
to  be  opened ;  the  body  undressed, 
covered  with  blankets,  removed  to 
the  open  air,  and  supported  in  a  lean- 
ing posture  on  a  chair.  The  patient's 
face  should  be  sprinkled  with  vinegar, 
the  pit  of  the  stomach  with  water, 
and  the  legs  plunged  into  a  cold 
bath  ;  at  the  same  time  rubbing  the 
skin  with  flannel,  or  a  soft  brush. 
Clysters  of  vinegar  and  water  will 
also  be  useful,  and  an  attempt  should 
be  made  to  promote  sickness,  by 
tickling  the  throat  with  a  feather 
dipped  in  oil.  When  the  patient  is 
able  to  swallow,  the  most  proper 
drink  is  vinegar  and  water,  or  infu- 
sions of  mint  and  balm. 

SUFFOLK  CHEESE.  The  curd 
is  broken  up  in  the  whey,  which  is 
poured  off"  as  soon  as  the  former  has 
subsided.  The  remainder,  with  the 
curd,  is  put  into  a  coarse  strainer, 
left  to  cool,  and  is  then  pressed  as 
tightly  as  possible.  After  this  it  is 
put' into  the  vat,  and  set  in  a  press 
to  discharge  the  remaining  whey. 
The  curd  is  then  taken  out,  broken 
again  as  finely  as  possible,  salted, 
and  returned  to  the  press. 

SUFFOLK  DUMPLINS.  Make 
a  very  light  dough  with  yeast,  as  for 
bread  ;  add  a  little  salt,  and  use 
milk  instead  of  water.     Let  it  rise 


S  UG 


SUP 


an  hour  before  the  fire.  Round  the 
dough  into  balls,  the  size  of  a  mid- 
dling apple;  throw  them  into  boil- 
ing water,  and  let  them  boil  twenty 
minutes.  To  ^certain  when  they 
are  done  enough,  stick  a  clean  fork 
into  one  ;  and  if  it  come  out  clear, 
they  are  ready  to  take  up.  Do  not 
cut,  but  tear  them  apart  on  the  top 
with  two  forks,  for  they  become  hea- 
vy by  their  own  steam.  They  should 
be  eaten  immediately,  with  gravy  or 
cold  butter,  or  with  meat. 

SUGARS.  These  being  an  article 
of  considerable  expense  in  all  fami- 
lies, the  purchase  demands  parti- 
cular attention.  The  cheapest  does 
not  go  so  far  as  the  more  refined, 
and  there  is  a  difference  even 
in  the  degree  of  sweetness.  Of 
white  sugar  that  should  be  prefer- 
red which  is  close,  heavy,  and  shin- 
ing. The  best  sort  of  brown  sugar 
has  a  bright  gravelly  appearance, 
and  it  is  often  to  be  bought  pure  as 
imported.  East  India  sugars  are 
finer  for  the  price,  but  not  so  strong, 
consequently  unfit  for  ^vines  and 
sweetmeats,  but  do  well  for  common 
purposes,  if  good  of  their  kind.  To 
prepare  white  sugar  pounded,  roll- 
ing it  with  a  bottle  and  sifting  it, 
wastes  less  than  pounding  it  in  a 
mortar. 

SUGAR  CAKES.  Make  into  a 
paste  a  pound  of  flour,  twelve  ounces 
of  fine  sugar  sifted,  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  orange- 
flower  water.  Roll  it  out  thin,  cut 
out  the  cakes  with  a  tin  or  glass, 
sift  sugar  over  them,  and  bake  them 
in  a  quick  oven. 

SUGAR  PASTE.  To  a  pound 
of  flour  put  two  ounces  of  loaf  su- 
gar rolled  and  sifted,  and  rub  in  half 
a  pound  of  butter.  Mix  it  up  with 
one  eg§  well  beaten,  and  cold  water 
sufiicient  to  make  it  into  a  paste. 
Mould  it  with  the  hand  till  it  is 
quite  smooth,  and  roll  it  out  for 
use. 

SUGAR  VINEGAR.  To  every 
gallon  of  water,  add  two  pourds  of 


the  coarsest  sugar ;  then  boil  and 
skim  it  thoroughly,  and  add  one 
quart  of  cold  water  for  every  gallon 
of  hot.  When  cool,  put  in  a  toast 
spread  with  yeast.  Stir  it  nine  days, 
then  barrel  it  off,  and  set  it  in  the 
sun,  with  a  piece  of  slate  on  the 
bung  hole.  Make  the  vinegar  in 
March,  and  it  will  be  ready  in  six 
months.  When  sufficiently  sour  it 
may  be  bottled,  or  may  be  used 
from  the  cask  with  a  wooden  spigot 
and  faucet. 

SUN  FLOWER.  The  valuable 
properties  of  the  sun  flower  are  too 
much  neglected,  and  might  be  ren- 
dered of  general  advantage.  The 
leaves  furnish  abundance  of  agree- 
able fodder  for  cattle,  the  flower  is 
enriched  with  honey  for  the  bees, 
the  dry  stalks  burn  well,  aflfording  a 
considerable  quantity  of  alkali  from 
the  ashes,  and  the  seed  is  highly  va- 
luable in  feeding  pigs  and  poultry. 
The  cultivation  of  this  plant  cannot 
be  too  much  recommended,  and  re- 
quires but  little  management. 

SUPPJER  DISH.  To  make  a 
pretty  supper  dish,  wash  a  tea- 
cupfal  of  rice  in  milk,  and  boil  it 
tender.  Strain  oflT  the  milk,  lay 
the  rice  in  small  heaps  on  a  dish, 
strew  over  them  some  finely-pow- 
dered sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  put 
warm  wine  and  a  little  butter  into 
the  dish. 

SUPPERS.  Hot  suppers  are  not 
much  in  use  where  people  dine  late, 
nor  indeed  in  ordinary  cases.  When 
required,  the  top  and  bottom  of  the 
table  may  be  furnished  with  game, 
fowls,  rabbit ;  boiled  fish,  such  as 
soles,  raackarel,  oysters,  stewed  or 
scalloped  ;  French  beans,  cauli- 
flower, or  Jerusalem  artichokes,  in 
white  sauce ;  brocoli  with  eggs, 
stewed  spinach  with  eggs,  sweet- 
breads, small  birds,  mushrooms, 
scalloped  potatoes ;  cutlets,  roast 
onions,  salmagundi,  buttered  eggs 
on  toast,  cold  neat's  tongue,  ham, 
collared  things,  sliced  hunter's  beef, 
buttered  rusks  with  anchovies, 
423 


S  W  E 


S  W  E 


grated  hung  beef  with  butter,  with 
or  without  rusks ;  grated  cheese 
round,  and  butter  dressed  in  the 
middle  of  a  plate  ;  radishes  the 
same,  custards  in  glasses  with  sip- 
pets, oysters  cold  or  pickled  ;  pot- 
ted meats,  fish,  birds,  cheese  ;  good 
plain  cake  sliced,  pies  of  birds  or 
fruit ;  lobsters,  prawns,  cray  fish, 
any  sweet  things,  and  fruits.  A 
sandwich  set  with  any  of  the  above 
articles,  placed  on  the  table  at  a 
little  distance  from  each  other,  will 
look  well.  The  lighter  the  things, 
the  better  they  appear,  and  glass 
intermixed  has  the  best  effect.  Jel- 
lies, different  coloured  things,  and 
flowers,  add  to  the  beauty  of  the 
table.  An  elegant  supper  may  be 
served  at  a  small  expense,  by  those 
who  know  how  to  make  trifles  that 
are  in  the  house  form  the  greatest 
part  of  the  entertainment. 

SUSAN  PUDDING.  Boil  some 
Windsor  beans,  just  as  they  begin 
to  be  black-eyed,  till  they  are  quite 
tender.  Then  peel  them,  and  beat 
up  half  a  pound  of  them  very  smooth 
in  a  marble  mortar.  Add  four  spoon- 
fuls of  thick  cream,  sugar  to  taste, 
half  a  pound  of  clarified  butter,  and 
eight  eggs,  leaving  out  half  the 
whites.  Beat  up  the  eggs  well  with 
a  little  salt,  and  white  wine  sufficient 
to  give  it  an  agreeable  flavour.  Line 
a  dish  with  puff  paste,  add  a  pretty 
good  layer  of  candied  citron  cut  in 
long  pieces,  pour  in  the  other  ingre- 
dients, and  bake  it  in  a  moderate 
oven  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

SWEEPING  OF  CHIMNIES. 
The  common  practice  of  employing 
poor  children  to  sweep  narrow  chim- 
nies,  is  most  inhuma,n  and  unwise  : 
many  lives  are  lost  by  this  means, 
and  much  injury  is  done  to  the  build- 
ing. The  children  being  obliged  to 
work  themselves  up  by  pressing 
with  their  feet  and  knees  on  one 
side,  and  their  back  on  the  other, 
often  force  out  the  bricks  which  di- 
vide the  chimnies,  and  thereby  en- 
crease  the  danger,  itt  case  a  foul 
424 


chimney  should  take  fire,  as  the 
flames  frequently  communicate  by 
those  apertures  to  other  apartments, 
which  were  not  suspected  to  be  in 
any  danger.  To  avoid  these  con- 
sequences, a  rope  twice  the  length 
of  the  chimney  should  be  provided, 
to  the  middle  of  which  a  bunch  of 
furze  or  broom  is  to  be  tied,  suffi- 
cient to  fill  the  cavity  of  the  chim- 
ney. Put  one  end  of  the  rope  down 
the  chimney,  with  a  stone  fastened 
to  it,  and  draw  the  brush  after  it, 
which  will  clear  the  sides  of  the 
chimney,  and  bring  down  the  soot. 
If  necessary,  a  person  at  top  may 
draw  the  brush  up  again  to  the  top 
of  the  chimney,  keeping  hold  of  the 
rope,  and  thus  clean  the  chimney 
thoroughly  without  difficulty  or  dan- 
ger. 

SWEET  HERBS.  It  is  of  some 
importance  to  know  when  the  va- 
rious seasons  commence  for  pro- 
curing sweet  and  savoury  herbs,  fit 
for  culinary  purposes.  All  vegeta- 
bles are  in  the  highest  state  of  per- 
fection, and  fullest  of  juice  and  fla- 
vour, just  before  they  begin  to 
flower.  The  first  and  last  crop  have 
neither  the  fine  flavour  nor  the  per- 
fume of  those  which  are  gathered  in 
the  height  of  the  season  ;  that  is, 
when  the  greater  part  of  the  crop 
of  each  species  is  ripe.  Let  them 
be  gathered  on  a  dry  day,  and  they 
will  have  a  better  colour  after  being 
preserved.  Cleanse  them  well  from 
dust  and  dirt,  cut  off  the  roots,  se- 
parate the  bunches  into  smaller  ones, 
and  dry  them  by  the  heat  of  a  stove, 
or  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  the  fire. 
Take  them  in  small  quantities,  that 
the  process  may  be  speedily  finish- 
ed, and  thus  their  flavour  will  be 
preserved.  Drying  them  in  the  sun 
exhausts  some  of  their  best  qualities. 
In  the  application  of  artificial  heat, 
the  only  caution  requisite  is  to  avoid 
burning  ;  and  of  this,  a  suflficient 
test  is  aflforded  by  the  preservation 
of  the  colour.  The  common  custom 
is,  when  .they  are  perfectly   dried. 


S  WE 


S  WE 


to  put  them  in  bags,  and  lay  them  in 
a  dry  place.  But  the  best  way  to 
preserve  the  flavour  of  aromatic 
plants,  is  to  pick  off  the  leaves  as 
soon  as  they  are  dried ;  then  to 
pound  and  pass  them  through  a 
hair  sieve,  and  keep  them  in  well- 
'  stopped  bottles. — Basil  is  in  the 
best  state  for  drying,  from  the  mid- 
dle of  August,  and  three  weeks 
afterwards.  Knotted  marjoram, 
from  the  beginning  of  July  to 
the  end  of  the  month.  Winter  sa- 
voury, the  latter  end  of  July,  and 
throughout  August.  Thyme,  lemon 
thyme,  and  orange  thyme,  during 
June  and  July.  Mint,  the  latter  end 
of  June,  and  throughout  July.  Sage, 
August  and  September.  Tarragon, 
June,  July,  and  August.  Chervil, 
May,  June,  and  July.  Burnet,  June, 
July,  and  August.  Parsley,  May, 
June,  and  July.  Fennel,  the  same. 
Elder  flowers,  and  orange  flowers. 
May,  June,  and  July.  Herbs  care- 
fully dried,  are  a  very  agreeable  sub- 
stitute ;  but  when  fresh  ones  can  be 
had,  their  flavour  and  fragrance  are 
much  finer,  and  therefore  to  be  pre- 
ferred. 

SWEET  LAMB  PIE.  Make  a 
good  puff"  paste  ;  then  cut  a  loin  of 
lamb  into  chops,  and  season  with 
salt  and  nutmeg ;  lay  a  paste  over 
the  bottom  of  your  dish  ;  put  in  your 
chops,  with  a  handful  of  currants 
washed  and  picked  very  clean  ;  lay 
on  your  lid,  and  bake  it.  When  it 
comes  from  the  oven,  take  off*  the  lid 
nicely,  and  pour  over  a  caudle  made 
of  white  wine,  the  yolks  of  eggs,  a 
little  nutmeg,  and  sugar  pounded: 
lay  the  lid  on  again,  and  send  it  to 

y      table  as  hot  as  you  can. 

f  SWEET  MACARONI.  To  make 
a  very  nice  dish  of  macaroni,  boil 
two  ounces  of  it  in  a  pint  of  milk, 
with  a  bit  of  cinnamon  and  lemon 
peel,  till  the  pipes  are  swelled  to 
their  utmost  size  without  breaking. 
Lay  them  on  a  custard  dish,  pour  a 
custard  over  them,  and  serve  them 
up  cold. 


SWEET  PATTIES.  Chop  the 
meat  of  a  boiled  calf's  foot,  the  liquor 
of  which  is  intended  for  jelly  ;  two 
apples,  one  ounce  of  orange  and  le- 
mon peel  candied,  and  some  fresh 
peel  and  juice.  Mix  with  them  half 
a  nutmeg  grated,  the  yolk  of  an  e^g, 
a  spoonful  of  brandy,  and  four  ounces 
of  currants  washed  and  dried.  Fill 
some  small  pattipans  lined  with  paste, 
and  bake  them. — To  make  patties 
resembling  mince  pies,  chop  the  kid- 
ney and  fat  of  cold  veal,  apple, 
orange  and  lemon  peel  candied ;  add- 
ing some  fresh  currants,  a  little  wine, 
two  or  three  cloves,  a  little  brandy 
and  sugar. 

SWEET  POT.  Take  three  hand- 
fuls  of  orange  flowers,  three  of  clove 
gilliflowers,  three  of  damask  roses, 
one  of  knotted  marjoram,  one  of  le- 
mon thyme,  six  bay  leaves,  a  hand- 
ful of  rosemary,  one  of  myrtle,  one 
of  lavender,  half  one  of  mint,  the 
rind  of  a  lemon,  and  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  cloves.  Chop  all  together, 
and  put  them  in  layers,  with  pound- 
ed bay-salt  between,  up  to  the  top  of 
the  jar.  If  all  the  ingredients  cannot 
be  got  at  once,  put  them  in  when 
obtained,  always  throwing  in  salt 
with  every  fresh  article.  This  will 
be  found  a  quick  and  easy  way  of 
making  a  sweet-scented  pot. 

SWEET  SAUCE.  Put  some  cur- 
rant jelly  into  a  stewpan,  and  when 
melted,  pour  it  into  a  sauce  boat. 
This  is  a  more  salubrious  relish  for 
venison  or  hare,  than  either  spice  or 
salt,  and  is  an  agreeable  accompani- 
ment to  roast  or  hashed  meats. 

SWEETBREADS  FRICASSEE. 
Cut  the  sweetbreads  in  pretty  thick 
slices,  boil  them  till  about  half  done, 
with  a  little  more  water  than  just  to 
cover  them.  Add  a  little  salt,  white 
pepper,  and  mace.  Then  some  but- 
ter, the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten 
with  a  little  white  wine,  and  some 
verjuice.  Keep  this  over  the  fire, 
.shaking  it  well,  till  the  sauce  is  pro- 
perly thickened.  Serve  it  up  with 
the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange*Squeezed 

3  I  425 


SW  E 


S  W  E 


over  it.  If  it  is  to  be  a  brown  fri- 
cassee, fry  the  sweetbreads  first  in 
butter  till  the  outside  is  browned. 
3Hien  pour  away  the  butter,  put  wa- 
ter to  the  sweetbreads,  and  boil  and 
finish  them  as  before.  An  onion  or 
a  clove  of  garlic  may  be  added  to 
the  water ;  or  if  broth  be  used  in- 
stead of  water,  it  will  make  the  fri- 
cassee more  savoury. 

SWEETBREADS  FRIED.  Cut 
them  into  long  slices,  rub  them  over 
with  egg,  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  grated  bread,  and  fry  them  in 
butter.  Serve  them  up  with  melted 
butter  and  ketchup,  garnished  with 
crisped  parsley,  and  thin  slices  of 
toasted  bacon. 

SWEETBREADS  RAGOUT.  Cut 
them  about  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
wash  and  dry  them,  then  fry  them  of 
a  fine  brown.  Pour  on  them  a  good 
gravy,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper, 
allspice,  and  either  mushrooms  or 
mushroom  ketchup,  adding  truffles 
and  morels,  if  approved.  Strain,  and 
thicken  with  butter  and  a  little  flour. 

SWEETBREADS  ROASTED. 
Parboil  two  large  ones  ;  when  cold , 
lard  them  with  bacon,  and  roast 
them  in  a  Dutch  oven.  For  sauce, 
plain  butter  and  mushroom  ket- 
chup. 

SWEETMEATS.  Preserves  or 
sweetmeats  should  be  carefully  kept 
from  the  air,  and  set  in  a  very  dry 
place.  If  they  have  only  a  small 
proportion  of  sugar,  a  warm  situa- 
tion would  not  injure  them  ;  but  if 
they  have  not  been  sufficiently  boiled, 
the  heat  will  make  them  ferment, 
and  the  damp  will  cause  them  to 
grow  mouldy.  They  should  be  in- 
spected two  or  three  times  in  the  first 
two  months,  that  they  may  be  gently 
boiled  again,  if  not  likely  to  keep. 
It  is  necessary  to  observe,  that  the 
boiling  of  sugar  more  or  less,  con- 
stitutes the  chief  art  of  the  confec- 
tioner ;  and  those  who  are  not  prac- 
tically acquainted  with  the  subject, 
and  only  preserve  fruit  in  a  plain 
way  for  family  use,  are  not  aware 
426 


that  in  two  or  three  minutes,  a  syrup 
over  the  fire  will  pass  from  one  gra- 
dation to  another,  called  by  the  con- 
fectioners, degrees  of  boihng,  of 
which  there  are  six,  and  those  sub- 
divided. Without  entering,  however, 
into  the  minutiae  of  the  business,  it 
is  only  necessary  to  make  the  obser- 
vation in  order  to  guard  against  un- 
der boiling,  which  prevents  sweet- 
meats from  keeping ;  and  quick  and 
long  boiling,  which  reduces  them  to 
candy.  Attention,  without  much 
practice,  will  enable  a  person  to  do 
any  of  the  following  sorts  of  sweet- 
meats and  preserves,  which  are  quite 
sufficient  for  a  private  family.  The 
higher  articles  of  preserved  fruits 
may  be  bought  at  less  expense  than 
made.  Jellies  of  fruit  are  made  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  sugar,  that  is, 
a  pound  to  a  pint,  and  require  no 
very  long  boiling.  A  pan  should  be 
kept  for  the  purpose  of  preserving, 
of  double  block  tin,  with  a  bow 
handle  for  safety,  opposite  the  straight 
one  :  and  if  when  done  with,  it  be 
carefully  cleaned  and  set  by  in  a  dry 
place,  it  will  last  for  several  years. 
Pans  of  copper  or  brass  are  extreme- 
ly improper,  as  the  tinning  wears  out 
by  the  scraping  of  the  ladle.  Sieves 
and  spoons  should  likewise  be  kept 
on  purpose  for  sweetmeats.  Sweet- 
meats keep  best  in  drawers  that  are 
not  connected  with  a  wall.  If  there 
be  the  least  damp,  cover  them  only 
with  paper  dipped  in  brandy,  and 
laid  on  quite  close  ;  and  to  prevent 
the  mouldiness  occasioned  by  in- 
sects, cover  them  with  fresh  paper 
in  the  spring.  When  any  sweetmeats 
are  to  be  dried  in  the  sun,  or  in  a 
stove,  it  will  be  best  in  private  fa- 
milies, where  there  is  not  a  regular 
stove  for  the  purpose,  to  place  them 
in  the  sun  on  flag  stones,  which  re- 
flect the  heat,  and  to  cover  them 
with  a  garden  glass  to  keep  off  the 
insects.  If  put  into  an  oven,  take 
care  that  it  be  not  too  warm,  and 
watch  to  see  them  done  properly 
and  slowly.     When  green  fruits  are 


s  wo 


S  YM 


to  be  preserved,  take  pippins,  apri- 
cots, pears,  plums,  or  peaches,  and 
put  them  into  a  block  tin  preserving 
pan,  with  vine  leaves  under  and  over 
them,  and  cover  them  with  spring 
water.  Put  on  the  tin  cover  to  ex- 
clude the  air,  and  set  the  pan  on  the 
side  of  the  fire.  When  the  fruit 
begins  to  simmer,  remove  the  pan 
from  the  fire,  pour  off  the  water, 
and  if  not  green,  put  fresh  leaves 
when  cold,  and  repeat  the  same. 
Take  them  out  carefully  with  a  slice, 
peel  and  do  them  as  directed  for  the 
different  kinds  of  preserves.  When 
fruit  is  plentiful,  and  sweetmeats  are 
wanted  for  tarts,  divide  two  pounds 
of  apricots  just  ripe,  and  take  out 
and  break  the  stones.  Put  the  ker- 
nels without  their  skins  to  the  fruit ; 
add  three  pounds  of  greengages, 
and  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  lump 
sugar.  The  sugar  should  be  broken 
in  large  pieces,  and  just  dipped  in 
water,  and  added  to  the  fruit  over 
a  slow  fire.  Simmer  it  till  reduced 
to  a  clear  jam,  but  observe  that  it 
does  not  boil,  and  skim  it  well.  If 
the  sugar  be  clarified,  it  will  make 
the  jam  the  better.  Put  it  into  small 
pots,  which  art  the  best  for  pre- 
serving sweetmeats. 

SWEETMEAT  PIES.  Sweet- 
meats made  with  syrups  are  made 
into  pies  the  same  as  raw  fruit,  and 
the  same  crusts  may  be  used  for 
them.  Tarts  made  of  any  kind  of 
jam  are  commonly  made  with  a  crust 
round  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  the 
sweetmeat  then  put  in,  and  only  lit- 
tle ornaments  of  crust  cut  with  a 
jagging  iron,  and  laid  over  the  top. 
Sugar  paste  may  be  used  if  prefer- 
red. Little  tartlets  are  made  in  the 
same  way,  only  baked  in  tins  and 
turned  out. 

SWOONS.  In  a  swooning  fit, 
the  patient  should  immediately  be 
exposed  to  the  open  air,  and  the 
face  and  neck  sprinkled  with  cold 
water.  Pungent  odours,  or  volatile 
spirits,  should  be  held  to  the  nos- 


trils, and  the  feet  rubbed  with  hot 
flannels,  or  put  into  warm  wa- 
ter. 

SYLLABUB.  Put  a  pint  of  cider 
and  a  bottle  of  strong  beer  into  a 
large  punch  bowl,  grate  in  a  nutmeg, 
and  sweeten  it.  Put  in  as  much  new 
milk  from  the  cow  as  will  make  a 
strong  froth,  and  let  it  stand  an 
hour.  Clean  and  wash  some  cur- 
rants, and  make  them  plump  before 
the  fire ;  then  strew  them  over  the 
syllabub,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 
A  good  imitation  of  this  may  be 
made  by  those  who  do  not  keep 
cows,  by  pouring  new  milk  out  of  a 
tea-pot  into  the  cider  and  beer,  or 
wine. — A  fine  syllabub  from  the 
cow.  Make  your  syllabub  either  of 
wine  or  cyder,  (if  cyder,  put  a  spoon- 
ful of  brandy  in)  sweeten  it,  and 
grate  in  some  nutmeg;  then  milk 
into  the  liquor  till  you  have  a  fine 
light  curd  ;  pour  over  it  half  a  pint, 
or  a  pint  of  good  cream,  according 
to  the  quantity  of  syllabub  you 
make  :  you  may  send  it  in  the  basin 
it  was  made  in,  or  put  it  into  cus- 
tard-cups, and  tea-spoons  with  it  on 
a  salver. — To  make  very  fine  sylla- 
bubs. Take  a  quart  and  half  a  pint 
of  cream,  a  pint  of  Rhenish,  and 
half  a  pint  of  sack  ;  grate  the  rind 
of  three  lemons  into  the  cream  ; 
with  near  a  pound  of  double-refined 
sugar ;  squeeze  the  juice  of  three 
lemons  into  the  wine,  and  put  it  to 
the  cream ;  then  beat  all  together 
with  a  whisk  half  an  hour,  take  it 
up  together  with  a  spoon,  and  fill 
the  glasses.  It  is  best  at  three  or 
four  days  old,  and  will  keep  good 
nine  or  ten  days.  These  are  called 
the  everlasting  syllabubs. 

SYMPATHETIC  INK.  Write  on 
paper  with  a  solution  of  nitrate  of 
bismuth,  and  smear  the  writing  over 
with  a  feather,  moistened  with  an 
infusion  of  galls.  The  letters  which 
were  before  invisible,  will  now  ap- 
pear of  a  brown  colour.  Or  write 
with  a  solution  of  muriate  of  anti- 
427 


TA  B 


TAB 


mony,  and  smear  the  writing  over 
with  a  feather  dipa^d  in  a  solution 
of  galls.  The  writmg"1)efore  invisi- 
ble, will  now  turn  yellow.  Or  write 
with  a  transparent  infusion  of  gall 
nuts,  and  smear  it  over  with  a  solu- 
tion of  metallic  salt ;  and  on  a  slight 
exposure  to  the  air,  the  writing  will 
turn  quite  black.  If  written  with  a 
solution  of  sulphate  of  iron,  and 
rubbed  over  with  a  solution  of  prus- 
siate  of  potass,  it  will  appear  of  a 
beautiful  blue  colour. 

SYRUP  OF  CREAM.  Staid  a 
pint  of  perfectly  fresh  cream,  add  to 
it  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  powdered 
lump  sugar.  Keep  it  in  a  cool  place 
for  two  or  three  hours,  then  put  it 
into  small  phials,  holding  one  or 
two  ounces  each,  and  cork  it  cl||^. 

■     f 


It  will  keep  good  thus  for  several 
weeks,  and  will  be  found  very  useful 
in  voyages. 

SYRUP  OF  DIACODIUM.  Steep 
two  pounds  and  a  quarter  of  poppy 
heads  in  a  gallon  of  water,  and  let 
it  infuse  twenty-four  hours.  Boil 
the  infusion  till  reduced  to  three 
pints,  and  add  to  it  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  sugar. 

SYRUP  OF  MULBERRIES.  Put 
the  mulberries  into  a  jar,  and  the 
jar  into  a  kettle  of  water  over  the 
tire,  till  the  juice  runs  from  them. 
Then  squeeze  the  fruit,  and  add  to 
the  juice  twice  its  weight  in  sugar. 
Set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  skim  it  clean, 
and  keep  it  simmering  till  the  sugar 
is  all  dissolved. 


T, 


Table  beer,  if  the  quality 
to  be  brewed  is  taken  as  a  barrel, 
or  six  and  thirty  gallons,  two  busljels 
and  a  half  of  malt  will  be  sufficient. 
The  dimensions  of  the  vessels  may 
be  supposed  to  correspond  with 
those  used  in  a  moderate  family,  and 
the  copper  holding  about  thirty  gal- 
lons. A  quantity  of  boiling  water 
being  poured  into  the  mash  tub,  is 
suffered  to  remain  there  till  the  steam 
is  nearly  all  evaporated.  The  malt 
previously  ground,  is  then  thrown 
into  the  water,  and  thoroughly  stir- 
red and  mixed  with  it.  This  agita- 
tion of  the  malt  and  water,  com- 
monly called  mashing,  is  kept  up 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  by  which 
the  malt  is  more  effectually  brought 
into  contact  with  the  water,  and  a 
greater  proportion  of  its  soluble 
matter  extracted.  After  this  the 
mash  tub  is  covered  over  in  order  to 
retain  as  much  heat  as  possible, 
and  the  whole  is  suffered  to  remain 
428 


undisturbed  for  an  hour  and  a  half 
or  two  hours.  At  the  end  of  that 
time,  the  water  thus  impregnated 
with  the  malt,  in  which  state  it  is 
commonly  called  sweet  wort,  is 
slowly  drawn  off  into  another  vessel. 
The  quantity  of  water  used  in  the 
first  mashing  is  about  twenty-five 
gallons;  of  which,  not  above  fifteen 
are  afterwards  obtained,  the  rest 
being  absorbed  by  the  malt,  with 
the  exception  of  a  small  quantity 
carried  off  by  evaporation.  This 
first  wort  being  drawn  off  from  the 
malt,  a  fresh  portion  of  hot  water  is 
thrown  into  the  mash  tub,  and  the 
process  of  mashing  is  repeated  for 
ten  minutes.  The  tub  being  again 
covered,  the  whole  is  suffered  to  re- 
main for  about  an  hour,  when  a  se- 
cond wort  is  drawn  off.  The  quan- 
tity of  water  used  in  this  second 
mashing^  is  about  fifteen  gallons  ; 
and  the  malt  having  already  retain- 
ed as  much  water  as  is  sufficient 


TAB 


TAB^ 


to  saturate  it,  the  whole  amount 
of  the  fifteen  gallons  is  afterwards 
recovered  from  the  mash  tub.  About 
twelve  gallons  of  hot  water  is  now 
added  to  the  malt,  and  the  mix- 
ture being  mashed  for  a  few  minutes, 
is  suffered  to  remain  another  hour, 
in  order  to  form  a  third  wort.  In 
the  meantime  a  part  of  the  two  first 
worts  is  poured  into  the  copper,  with 
a  pound  and  a  half  or  two  pounds  of 
hops,  and  boiled  for  an  hour,  or  an 
hour  and  a  half;  after  which  it  is 
strained  through  a  sieve  into  another 
vessel.  The  third  wort  is  now  drawn 
off  from  the  mash  tub,  and  being 
mixed  with  the  remaining  part  of 
the  first  and  second  wort,  it  is  boiled 
for  an  hour  or  more,  with  the  hops 
used  in  the  former  instance.  The 
three  worts  are  then  distributed  into 
shallow  vessels  or  coolers,  and  suf- 
fered to  remain  there  till  the  liquor 
is  reduced  to  a  lukewarm  state.  It 
is  then  collected  into  the  tun  tub, 
and  fermented  with  about  a  quart  of 
yeast,  which  converts  it  into  beer. 
But  as  table  beer  is  sometimes  brew- 
ed in  considerable  quantities  for  the 
use  of  large  families,  and  in  a  still 
more  economical  manner,  an  esti- 
mate will  be  given,  in  order  to  show 
the  saving  that  is  made  in  private 
brewing.  The  following  is  a  prepa- 
ration for  ten  barrels. 

£  s.  d. 
Malt,  one  quarter  .  .  2  10  0 
Hops,  eight  pounds  .  0  10  0 
Colouring,  ditto  .  .  0  4  0 
Spanish  liquorice,  8oz.  0  0  8 
Treacle,  ten  pounds     .034 


8     0 


Ten   barrels    bought   at 

the  brewery  at  16s.       8      0     0 
Ten   barrels    brewed   at 

home  .    ^.     .     .     .     3      8     0 


Clear  gain 


.  4    12     0 


Liquorice  root  and  other  flavour- 
iag  substances  may  be  added  :  what 
are  here  inserted  are  only  the  general 
requisites. — Another  way  of  making 
a  cheap  and  wholesome  table  beer, 
is  to  dissolve  four  pounds  of  coarse 
sugar  in  ten  gallons  of  water.  Then 
put  in  three  ounces  of  hops,  boil  the 
whole  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
and  let  it  work  as  usual.  It  should  be 
kept  a  week  or  ten  days  before  it  is 
tapped,  and  it  will  improve  daily  af- 
terwards, if  not  kept  too  long.  Or  for 
a  still  smaller  quantity,  put  a  pound  of 
treacle  to  eight  quarts  of  boiling  wa- 
ter :  add  two  bay  leaves,  and  a  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  of  powdered  ginger. 
Boil  the  whole  for  fifteen  minutes, 
then  let  it  cool,  and  work  it  with 
yeast. 

.  TAINTED  MEAT.  When  the 
weather  is  so  hot  that  meat  will 
scarcely  keep  from  day  to  day,  wrap 
ping  it  in  a  thin  cloth  dipped  in  vine- 
gar, and  not  wrung  very  dry,  will 
help  to  keep  it  from  being  tainted. 
Or  rubbing  the  meat  with  black  pep- 
per will  preserve  it,  and  let  it  be 
hung  up  as  usual.  It  is  much  better 
however,  that  meat  should  not  be 
kept  so  long  as  to  risk  its  being 
tainted. 

TAN  GLOVES.  To  dye  gloves 
to  look  like  York  tan  or  Limerick, 
put  some  saffron  into  a  pint  of  water 
boiUng  hot,  and  let  it  infuse  all  night. 
Next  morning  wet  the  leather  over 
with  a  brush,  but  take  care  that  the 
tops  of  the  gloves  be  sewn  close,  to 
prevent  the  colour  from  getting 
in. 

TANSEY.  To  make  a  tansey, 
beat  up  seven  eggs,  yolks  and  whites 
separately.  Add  a  pint  of  cream, 
nearly  the  same  of  spinach  juice, 
and  a  little  tansey  juice,  gained  by 
pounding  it  in  a  stone  mortar;  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  Naples  bis- 
cuit, a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  a 
little  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Set  all  in 
a  saucepan,  just  to  thicken,  over  the 
fire ;  then  put  it  into  a  dish,  lined 
with  paste  to  turn  out,  and  bake  it. 
429 


t  A  N 


TAR 


— Another.    Beat  ten  eggs  very  well 
with  a  little  salt,  half  a  pound  of 
loaf  sugar  pounded,  half  a  pint  of 
spinach  juice,  and  a  spoonful  of  the 
juice  of  tansey ;  mix  them  well  to- 
gether, and  strain  it  to  a  quart  of 
cream ;    grate  in   half  a  pound  of 
Naples  biscuits,  and  a  nutmeg ;  add 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Jordan  al- 
monds blanched  and  beat  fine,  with 
a  little  rose  water,  and  mix  all  well 
together ;    put   it   into   a   stewpan, 
with  a  piece  of  butter  the  bigness  of 
a  golden  pippin.     Set  it  over  a  slow 
charcoal  fire ;  keep  it  stirring  till  it 
is  hardened  ;  then  butter  a  dish  very 
well,  that  will  just  hold  it :  put  in 
the  tansey,  bake  it  in  a  moderate 
oven,    taking    care   that    it   is    not 
scorched.      When   it   comes  home, 
turn  it  upon  a  pie  plate,  cut  Seville 
oranges  in  small  quarters,  and  lay 
round  it,  and  on  the  tansey,  citron, 
and  orange  peel  cut  thin,  with  dou- 
ble refined  sugar  laid  in  little  heaps 
between.     If  you  have  not  Naples 
biscuits,  grate  seven  ounces  of  the 
finest  stale  bread  you  have. — A  boil- 
ed tansey.    Cut  the  crumb  of  a  stale 
penny  loaf  thin,  pour  over  as  much 
hot  cream  as  will  wet  it,  and  cover 
it  over  till  cold ;  then  beat  and  strain 
six  eggs   to  it,  a  little  lemon  peel 
shred  fine,  a  little  grated  nutmeg, 
and  salt ;  green  it  as  you  did  the 
baked  tansey,  and  sweeten  it  to  your 
taste;    stir   all  very  well  together, 
butter  a  bason,  that  will  hold  it,  but- 
ter also  a  cloth  to  lay  over  the  top, 
tie  it  tight,  and  boil  it  an  hour  and 
quarter  ;    turn  it  into  a  dish,   and 
garnish  with  Seville  orange ;    stick 
candied  orange  cut  thin  on  the  top. 
TANSEY    PUDDING.      Grate 
four  ounces'  of  bread,   blanch  two 
ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  and  beat 
them  fine  in  a  marble  mortar,  with 
orange-flower    water.      Mix    these, 
and  four   ounces  of  fine  powdered 
sugar  with  the  bread.  Add  five  eggs, 
a  little  salt,  a  pint  of  cream,  a  grated 
nutmeg,  half  a  pint  of  spinach  juice 
expressed  from  the  leaves,  beaten  in 
430 


a  marble  mortar,  and  strained  through 
a  cloth,  and  two  or  three  spoonfuls 
of  tansey  juice  beaten  out  and  strain- 
ed in  the  same  manner.  Stir  the 
whole  together,  and  put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter. Set  it  over  the  fire  till  it  thickens, 
stirring  it  all  the  time,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil.  When  done,  cool  it  in  a 
basin,  then  pour  it  into  a  dish  well 
buttered,  and  bake  it  half  an  hour. 
Turn  it  out  of  the  dish  before  it  is 
sent  to  table,  sift  some  fine  sugar 
over  it,  and  lay  a  Seville  orange  round 
it  cut  in  pieces,  and  squeeze  the  juice 
upon  it. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY.  Choose  the 
largest  sort,  pour  on  cold  water  to 
wash  in  two  or  three  times,  and  then 
soak  it  in  fresh  water  five  or  six 
times.  Simmer  it  in  the  same  until 
it  become  quite  clear,  with  a  bit  of 
lemon  peel.  Then  add  lemon  juice, 
wine,  and  sugar. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING.  Wash 
six  spoonfuls  of  the  large  kind  of 
tapioca,  and  stew  it  gently  in  a  quart 
of  milk  till  it  is  pretty  thick.  Let 
it  stand  uncovered  to  cool.  Add  two 
eggs  well  beaten  with  some  salt, 
and  sugar  to  the  taste.  Bake  it  with 
a  crust  round  the  edge  of  a  dish,  in 
a  moderate  oven,  for  an  hour. 

TAR  WATER.  Pour  a  gallon 
of  cold  water  on  a  quart  of  tar,  and 
stir  and  mix  them  thoroughly  with 
a  ladle  or  flat  stick,  for  the  space  of 
three  or  four  minutes  ;  after  which 
the  vessel  must  stand  forty-eight 
hours,  that  the  tar  may  have  time  to 
subside  ;  when  the  clear  water  is  to 
be  poured  off",  and  kept  for  use,  no 
more  being  made  from  the  same  tar, 
which  may  still  serve  for  common 
purposes.  The  general  rule  for 
taking  it  is,  about  half  a  pint  night 
and  morning,  on  an  empty  stomach, 
which  quantity  may  be  varied  ac- 
cording to  the  case  and  age  of  the 
patient ;  provided  it  be  always  taken 
on  an  empty  stomach,  and  about  two 
hours  before  or  after  a  meal.  Tar 
water  cures  indigestion,  and  gives 


T  A 


R 


TAR 


a  good  appetite.  It  is  an  excellent 
medicine  in  an  asthma ;  it  imparts  a 
kindly?  warmth,  and  quick  circula- 
tion to  the  juices,  without  heating, 
and  is  therefore  useful,  not  only  as 
a  pectoral  and  balsamic,  but  also 
as  a  powerful  and  a  safe  deobstruent 
in  cachectic  and  hysteric  cases.  As 
it  is  both  healing  and  diuretic,  it  is 
very  good  for  the  gravel.  It  is 
believed  to  be  of  great  use  in  a 
dropsy,  having  been  known  to  cure 
a  very  bad  anasarca  in  a  person 
whose  thirst,  though  very  extraordi- 
nary, was  in  a  short  time  removed 
by  the  drinking  of  tar  water.  It  is 
also  believed  to  be  the  best  and 
safest  medicine,  either  for  prevent- 
ing the  gout,  or  for  so  strengthening 
nature  against  the  fit,  as  to  drive  it 
from  the  vitals.  It  may  likewise  be 
safely  used  in  inflammatory  cases ; 
and,  in  fact,  hath  been  found  an 
admirable  febrifuge,  at  once  the 
safest  cooler  and  cordial.  The  salts 
and  more  active  spirits  of  tar  are  got 
by  infusion  in  cold  water ;  but  the 
resinous  part  is  not  to  be  dissolved 
thereby.  Hence  the  prejudice  which 
some,  perhaps,  may  entertain  against 
tar  water,  the  use  of  which  might 
inflame  the  blood  by  its  sulphur  and 
resin,  as  a  medicine,  appears  not  to 
be  well  grounded.  It  is  observed  by 
chemists,  that  all  sorts  of  balsamic 
wood  aflford  an  acid  spirit,  which  is 
the  volatile  oily  saltof  the  vegetable. 
Herein  is  chiefly  contained  their  me- 
dicinal virtues ;  and  it  appears  that 
the  acid  spirit  in  tar  water  possesses 
the  virtues,  in  an  eminent  degree,  of 
that  of  guaiacum,and  other  medicinal 
woods.  It  is  certain  tar  water  warms, 
and  therefore  some  may  perhaps 
still  think  it  cannot  cool.  The  more 
eflfectually  to  remove  this  prejudice, 
let  it  be  farther  considered,  that,  as 
on  one  hand,  opposite  causes  do 
sometimes  produce  the  same  eff*ect ; 
for  instance,  heat  by  rarefaction, 
and  cold  by  condensation,  do  both 
increase  the  air's  elasticity ;  so,  on 
the  otiier  hand,  the  same  cause  shall 


sometimes  produce  opposite  eflfects. 
Heat,  for  instance,  in  one  degree 
thins,  in  another  coagulates,  the 
blood.  It  is  not  therefore  strange, 
that  tar  water  should  warm  one  ha- 
bit and  cool  another ;  have  one  good 
eff'ect  on  a  cold  constitution,  and 
another  good  efi^ect  on  an  inflamed 
one ;  nor,  if  this  be  so,  that  it 
should  cure  opposite  disorders.  A 
medicine  of  so  great  virtue  in  so 
many  diflferent  disorders,  and  espe- 
cially in  that  grand  enemy  the  fever, 
must  needs  be  a  benefit  to  mankind 
in  general.  There  are  nevertheless 
three  sorts  of  people  to  whom  it  may 
be  peculiarly  recommended  ;  sea- 
faring persons,  ladies,  and  men  of 
studious  and  sedentary  lives.  If  it 
be  asked,  what  precise  quantity,  or 
degree  of  strength  is  required  in 
tar  water  ?  It  is  answered,  that  the 
palate,  the  stomach,  the  particular 
case  and  constitution  of  the  patient, 
the  very  season  of  the  year,  will  dis- 
pose and  require  him  to  drink  more 
or  less  in  quantity,  stronger  or  weak- 
er in  degree.  Precisely  to  measure 
its  strength  by  a  scrupulous  exact- 
ness, is  by  no  means  necessary.  It 
is  to  be  observed,  that  tar  water 
should  not  be  made  in  unglazed 
earthen  vessels,  these  being  apt  to 
communicate  a  nauseous  sweetness 
to  the  water.  Tar  water  is  also  re- 
commended in  the  plague,  and  for 
the  distemper  among  horned  cattle  ; 
with  what  success  must  be  left  to 
experience. 

TARRAGON  VINEGAR.  Fill  a 
wide-mouthed  bottle  with  tarragon 
leaves,  gathered  on  a  dry  day,  just 
before  the  plant  begins  to  flower.  Dry 
the  leaves  a  little  before  the  fire, 
steep  them  a  fortnight  in  the  best  vi- 
negar, and  strain  it  fine  through  a 
flannel  jelly  bag.  Pour  it  into  half- 
pint  bottles,  cork  them  up  carefully, 
and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place.  This 
forms  an  agreeable  addition  to  soups 
and  salad  sauce,  and  to  mix  with 
mustard. 

TARTAR  WINE.  Add  to  a  quan- 
431 


TAR 


TAR 


tity  of  mare's  milk  a  sixth  part  of 
water,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  a 
wooden  vessel.  Use  as  a  ferment  an 
eighth  part  of  sour  cow's  milk  ;  but 
at  any  future  preparation,  a  small 
portion  of  old  koumiss  will  answer 
better.  Cover  the  vessel  with  a  thick 
cloth,  and  set  it  in  a  place  of  mode- 
rate warmth,  leaving  it  at  rest  for 
twenty  four  hours.  At  the  end  of 
this  time  the  milk  will  become  sour, 
and  a  thick  substance  will  be  ga- 
thered on  its  surface.  Now  with  a 
churn-stafF,  beat  it  till  the  thick  sub- 
stance just  mentioned,  be  intimately 
blended  with  the  subjacent  fluid. 
In  this  situation  leave  it  at  rest  for 
twenty  four  hours  more.  Afterwards 
pour  it  into  a  higher  and  narrower 
vessel,  resembling  a  churn,  where 
the  agitation  must  be  repeated  as  be- 
fore, till  the  liquor  appear  to  be  per- 
fectly combined.  In  this  state  it  is 
called  koumiss,  the  taste  of  which 
ought  to  be  a  pleasant  mixture  of 
sweet  and  sour.  Agitation  must  be 
employed  every  time  before  it  is 
used.  This  wine,  prepared  by  the 
Tartars,  is  cooling  and  antiseptic. 
Sometimes  aromatic  herbs,  as  ange- 
lica, are  infused  in  the  liquor  during 
fermentation.  * 

TARTS.  Sweetmeats  made  with 
syrups  are  formed  into  pies  and  tarts 
the  same  as  raw  fruits,  and  the  same 
crusts  may  be  used  for  them.  Tarts 
made  of  any  kind  of  jam  are  usually 
formed  with  a  crust  round  the  bot- 
tom of  the  dish,  the  sweetmeat  is 
then  put  in,  and  little  ornaments  of 
crust  placed  over  the  top,  made  with 
^jagging  iron.  Sugar  paste  is  suita- 
ble for  these.  Little  tartlets  are 
made  in  the  same  way,  only  baked  in 

tins  and  turned  out. Take  apples, 

or  pears,  cut  them  in  small  quarters, 
and  set  them  over  the  fire,  with  a 
piece  of  lemon  peel,  and  some  cin- 
namon ;  let  them  simmer  in  as  much 
water  as  will  cover  them,  till  tender  ; 
and  if  you  bake  them  in  tin  patti- 
pans,  butter  them  first,  and  lay  over 
a  thin  paste  ;  lay  in  some  sugar, 
432 


then  the  fruit,  with  three  or  four 
tea-spoonfuls  of  the  liquor  they  were 
simmered  in  ;  put  in  a  little  more 
sugar,  and  lid  them  over.  If  your 
tarts  are  made  of  apricots,  green 
almonds,  nectarines,  or  green  plums, 
they  must  be  scalded  before  you  use 
them,  and  observe  to  put  nothing 
to  them  but  sugar,  and  as  little  wa- 
ter as  possible ;  make  use  of  the 
syrup  they  were  scalded  in,  as  you 
did  for  your  apples,  &c.  cherries, 
currants,  raspberries,  and  all  ripe 
fruits  need  not  be  scalded  ;  and  if 
you  make  your  tarts  in  china,  or 
glass  patties,  lay  the  sugar  at  bot- 
tom, then  the  fruit,  with  a  little  more 
sugar  on  the  top  ;  put  no  paste  at 
the  bottom,  only  lid  them  over,  and 
bake  them  in  a  slack  oven.  You 
have  receipts  how  to  make  crust  for 
tarts  ;  mince  pies  must  be  baked  in 
tin  patties,  that  you  may  slip  them 
out  into  a  dish,  and  a  puff  paste  is 
the  best  for  them.  When  you  make 
sweetmeat  tarts,  or  a  crocant  tart, 
lay  in  the  sweetmeats,  or  preserved 
fruit  either  in  glass  or  china  patties 
that  are  small,  for  that  purpose ; 
lay  a  very  thin  crust  on  the  top,  and 
let  them  be  baked  no  more  than  till 
your  crust  is  nicely  coloured,  and 
that  in  a  slow  oven.  If  you  would 
have  a  crocant  tart  for  the  middle 
of  the  table,  or  a  side-dish,  have  a 
glass,  or  china  dish,  of  what  size 
you  please,  and  lay  in  the  preserved 
fruit  of  different  sorts,  (you  must 
have  a  round  cover  just  the  size  of 
the  inside  of  your  dish)  roll  out  a 
sugar  crust,  the  thickness  of  an  half 
crown,  and  lay  over  the  cover ;  mark 
it  with  marking  irons  made  on  pur- 
pose for  that  use,  of  what  shapes 
you  please  ;  then  put  the  crust,  with 
the  cover,  into  a  very  slack  oven, 
not  to  discolour  it,  only  to  have  it 
crisp.  When  you  take  it  out  of  the 
oven,  loosen  it  from  the  cover  very 
gently,  and  when  quite  cold,  take  it 
carefully  off,  and  lay  over  your 
sweetmeats,  and  it  being  hollow, 
you  will  see  the  fruit  through  it. 


TEA 


TEA 


if  the  tart  is  not  eaten,  only  take  off 
the  Hd,  and  your  sweetmeats  may  be 
put  into  the  pots  again. 

TEA.  The  habit  of  drinking  tea 
frequently,  and  in  large  quantities, 
cannot  fail  to  be  injurious,  as  it  great- 
ly weakens  and  relaxes  the  tone  of 
the  stomach.  This  produces  indi- 
gestion, nervous  trembling  and  weak- 
ness, attended  with  a  pale,  wan  com- 
plexion. When  tea  is  taken  only  at 
intervals,  and  after  solid  food,  it  is 
salutary  and  refreshing  ;  but  when 
used  as  a  substitute  for  plain  nou- 
rishing diet,  as  is  too  commonly  the 
case  amongst  the  lower  classes,  it  is 
highly  pernicious,  especially  as  large 
quantities  of  a  spurious  description 
are  too  frequently  imposed  upon  the 
publie.  The  policy  which  compels 
a  very  numerous  class  to  purchase 
this  foreign  article,  for  procuring 
which  immense  sums  are  sent  out  of 
the  country,  while  the  produce  of  our 
own  soil  is  comparatively  withheld  by 
an  exorbitant  system  of  taxation, 
cannot  be  too  severely  condemned,  as 
alike  injurious  to  health,  to  the  inte- 
rests of  agriculture,  and  to  the  com- 
fort and  industry  of'the  people.  The 
duty  on  foreign  tea  has  indeed  been 
greatly  encreased,  but  at  the  same 
time,  so  has  the  duty  on  malt  and 
beer  ;  no  encouragement  therefore  is 
given  to  the  home  consumption,  but 
the  money  which  ought  to  be  paid  for 
jthe  production  of  barley  and  malt  is 
given  to  the  foreigner,  while  by  the 
enormous  price  of  the  article,  a  pow- 
erful stimulus  is  furnished  for  at- 
tempting an  illicit  importation,  and 
for  the  pernicious  adulteration  of 
what  is  now  esteemed  almost  a  com- 
mon necessary  of  life.  It  is  desirable  to 
lessen  the  injurious  effects  of  tea  as 
much  as  possible  by  mixing  it  with 
milk,  which  will  render  it  softer  and 
more  nutritious.  With  the  addition  of 
sugar  it  may  be  made  to  form  a 
wholesome  breakfast  for  those  who 
are  strong  and  live  freely,  operating 
as  a  diluent  for  cleansing  the  bladder 
and  kidnies,  and  the  alimentary  pas- 
(No.  19.) 


sages.  Persons  of  weak  nerves  ought 
however  to  abstain  from  tea,  as  they 
would  from  drams  and  cordials,  as  it 
causes  the  same  kind  of  irritation  on 
the  delicate  fibres  of  the  stomach, 
which  ends  in  lowness,  trembling,  and 
vapours.  Tea  should  never  be  drunk 
hot  at  any  time,  as  it  tends  still  more 
to  produce  that  relaxation  which 
ought  to  be  carefully  avoided.  Green 
tea  is  less  wholesome  than  black  or 
bohea. 

TEA  CAKES.  Rub  four  ounces 
of  butter  into  eight  ounces  of  flour, 
mix  with  it  eight  ounces  of  currants, 
and  six  of  fine  Lisbon  sugar.  Add 
two  yolks  and  one  white  of  eggs,  and 
a  spoonful  of  brandy.  Roll  the  paste 
about  the  thickness  of  a  biscuit,  and 
cut  it  out  with  a  wine  glass  into  little 
cakes.  The  white  of  the  other  egg 
beaten  up,  may  be  washed  over  them, 
and  then  they  may  be  dusted  with 
fine  sugar. 

TEA-KETTLES.  Hard  water 
used  for  tea  is  apt  to  form  an  offen- 
sive crust  inside  the  tea-kettle,  which 
may  be  prevented  by  frequent  clean- 
ing, or  putting  a  flat  oyster  shell  at 
the  bottom.  This  will  attract  the 
stony  particles  that  are  in  the  water, 
and  the  concretion  will  be  formed 
upon  it.  y    V  r^   X       x\ 

TEA-POTS./ An  ipljisiori  of  tea^/ 
al\i^ys''m6VgTpByi(iet't;H!  allied 
than  in  one  of  stoi^e  or  eartheni'are. 
If  boiling  wat^r  ;6e -poured  int^  Jwo 
tea-pots,  one  ofhtrrgM  sitvef  £r  po- 
lished tin,  and  the  other  off  btack 
stoneware,  and  they  be  left  in  |a  roqm 
of  moderate  temperature,  hpvill  be 
found  that  the  former  will  jfetain  its 
heat  nearly  twice  as  long  as ahe  other. 
Tea-pots  of  polished  meta^jer  there- 
fore to  be  preferred. 

TEATS.  Sore  teats,  in  Neat  Cat- 
tle, is  an  affection  in  those  of  the  cow 
kind,  to  which  some  are  much  more 
subject  than  others  ;  especially  such 
as  have  newly  or  lately  calved. 
When  the  teats  of  these  aninjals  are 
affected  during  the  summer  months, 
they  often  become  ulcerated,  and  by 

ii  K  433 


TEE 


TEN 


the  teazing  of  the  flies,  the  cattle  are 
rendered  difficult  to  be  milked  ;  they 
also  become  a  very  great  nuisance 
at  the  periods  of  milking,  as  the  dis- 
charges from  them  are  apt,  without 
much  attention,  to  pass  between  t4ie 
fingers  of  the  operator  into  the  milk- 
pail,  and  spoil  the  milk.  The  affec- 
tion is  caused  by  inflammation,  ir- 
ritation, and  too  much  distention  of 
the  parts  by  the  milk.  In  order  to 
the  removal  of  it,  the  milk  should  be 
first  frequently  drawn,  and  the  parts 
well  washed  with  soft  soap  and 
warm  water  ;  after  which,  a  sub- 
stance composed  of  elder  ointment 
and  wax  melted  together,  to  which 
is  then  added  a  little  alum  and  sugar 
of  lead,  in  fine  powder,  may  be  used 
to  the  parts  after  milking  at  night 
and  in  the  morning  ;  or  a  weak  so- 
lution of  white  vitriol  and  a  little  su- 
gar of  lead,  in  soft  water  may  be 
made  use  of  in  the  same  way,  in  some 
cases,  with  more  advantage.  The 
addition  of  a  little  assafoetida,  and 
such  like  substances,  in  powder,  is, 
it  is  said,  beneficial  in  the  summer 
season  in  driving  away  the  flies. 
Great  care  is  to  be  taken  to  keep  the 
teats  as  clean  as  possible  during  the 
time  of  cure. 

TEETH  AND  GUMS.  In  order 
to  preserve  the  teeth  and  gums,  they 
require  to  be  cleaned  very  carefully ; 
for  if  the  enamel  of  the  teeth  be 
worn  off  by  an  improper  mode  of 
cleaning,  they  will  suffer  more  injury 
than  by  a  total  neglect.  A  common 
skewer  of  soft  wood,  bruised  and 
bitten  at  the  end,  will  make  the  best 
brush  for  this  purpose.  Once  a 
week  dip  the  skewer  brush  into  a 
few  grains  of  gunpowder,  after  they 
have  been  bruised,  and  it  will  remove 
every  spot  and  blemish  till  the  teeth 
appear  beautifully  white.  The  mouth 
should  be  well  washed  after  the 
operation,  to  prevent  any  ill  eflfects 
of  the  gunpowder.  Teeth,  if  not 
regulary  cleaned,  are  apt  to  contract 
a  false  kind  of  enamel  which  is  in- 
jurious to  the  gums,  leaving  the 
434 


fangs  of  the  teeth  bare,  so  that  they 
are  soon  destroyed,  by  being  ex- 
posed to  the  air,  and  for  want  of 
being  protected  by  the  gums.  This 
tartarous  enamel  must  therefore  be 
scaled  off,  that  the  gums  may  grow 
up  to  their  proper  place.  Rasp- 
berries or  strawberries  eaten  plenti- 
fully have  been  found  to  dissolve 
these  concretions,  and  contribute 
to  the  preservation  of  the  teelh  and 
gums.  Tooth  powders  and  tinctures 
also  have  theii  use.  A  very  conve- 
nient powder  may  be  made  of  char- 
coal pounded  in  a  mortar,  and  sift- 
ed fine.  Apply  a  little  of  it  to  the 
teeth  twice  a  week,  and  it  will  not 
only  render  them  beautifully  white, 
but  also  make  the  breath  sweet,  and 
the  gums  firm  and  comfortable.  The 
charcoal  may  be  ground  in  water, 
and  so  preserved  for  use.  A  tincture 
for  the  gums  may  be  made  of  three 
ounces  of  the  tincture  of  bark,  and 
half  an  ounce  of  sal  ammoniac, 
mixed  together.  Dip  the  finger  into 
a  tea-spoonful  of  the  tincture,  and 
rub  the  gums  and  teeth  with  it, 
which  are  afterwards  to  be  washed 
with  warm  water.  This  tincture  not 
only  cures  the  toothache,  but  pre- 
serves the  teelh  and  gums,  and 
causes  them  to  adhere  to  each  other. 

TENANT  AT  SUFFERANCE. 
When  a  lease  is  expired,  and  the 
tenant  keeps  possession  without  any 
new  contract,  he  is  deemed  a  tenant 
at  sufferance.  But  on  the  landlord's 
acceptance  of  any  rent  after  the  ex- 
piration of  the  lease,  the  tenant  may 
hold  the  premises  from  year  to 
year,  till  half  a  year's  notice  is 
given. 

TENANT  AT  WILL.  A  tenant 
at  will  is  one  who  holds  an  estate 
or  tenement  at  the  will  of  the  land- 
lord, and  may  at  any  time  be  eject- 
ed. Meanwhile  he  is  at  liberty  to 
leave  when  he  chooses,  on  giving 
proper  notice,  and  cannot  be  com- 
pelled to  occupy. 

TENCH.  These  are  a  fine  fla- 
voured fresh- water  fish,  and  should 


T  E  N 


THI 


be  kiiied  and  dressed  as  soon  as 
oaujilit.  Thev  abound  very  niiich 
in  the  dykes  of  Lincolnshire.  When 
they  are  to  be  bought,  examine  whe- 
ther the  gills  are  red  and  hard  to 
open,  the  eyes  bright,  and  the  body 
stiff.  The  tench  has  a  slimy  mat- 
ter about  it,  the  clearness  and  bright- 
ness of  which  indicate  freshness. 
The  season  for  this  delicate  fish  is 
July,  August,  and  September.  When 
to  be  dressed,  put  them  into  cold 
water,  boil  them  carefully,  and  serve 
with  melted  butter  and  soy.  They 
are  also  very  fine  stewed,  or  fricas- 
seed, as  follows. 'To  fricassee  tench 
white.  Having  cleaned  your  tench 
very  well,  cut  off  their  heads,  slit 
thenr  in  two,  and  if  large,  cut  each 
half  in  three  pieces,  if  small,  in  two: 
melt  some  butter  in  a  stewpan,  and 
put  in  your  tench  ;  dust  in  some 
flour,  and  pour  in  some  boiling  wa- 
ter, and  a  few  mushrooms,  and  sea- 
son it  with  salt,  pepper,  a  bundle  of 
sweet  herbs,  and  an  onion  stuck  with 
cloves  :  when  this  boils,  pour  in  a 
pint  of  white  wine  boiling  hot ;  let 
it  stew  till  sufficiently  wasted  ;  take 
out  the  fish,  and  strain  the  liquor, 
saving  the  mushrooms  ;  bind  your 
fricassee  with  the  yolk  of  three  or 
four  eggs  beaten  up  with  a  little 
verjuice,  some  parsley  chopped  fine, 
and  a  little  nutmeg  grated  ;  stir  it 
all  the  time  it  boils,  scum  it  very 
clean,  pour  your  sauce  over  the  fish, 
and  send  it  to  table. — To  fricassee 
tench  biovvn.  Prepare  your  tench 
as  in  the  other  receipt ;  put  some 
butter  and  flour  into  a  stewpan, 
and  brown  it ;  then  put  in  the  tench 
with  the  same  seasoning  you  did 
your  white  fricassee  ;  when  you  have 
tossed  them  up,  moisten  them  with 
a  little  fish  broth  ;  boil  a  pint  of 
white  wine,  and  put  to  your  fricassee, 
stew  it  till  enough,  and  properly 
wasted  ;  then  take  the  fish  up,  and 
strain  the  liquor,  bind  it  with  a 
brown  cullis,  and  serve  it  up.  If 
asparagus  or  artichokes  are  in  sea- 


son, you  may  boil  these,  and  add 
them  to  your  fricassee. 

TENCH  BROTH.  Clean  the  fish, 
and  set  them  on  the  fire  with  three 
pints  of  water ;  add  some  parsley,  a 
slice  of  onion,  and  a  few  pepper- 
corns. Simmer  till  the  fish  is  broken, 
the  broth  become  good,  and  reduced 
one  half.  Add  some  salt,  and  strain 
it  off.  Tench  broth  is  very  nu- 
tricious,  and  light  of  digestion. 

THICK  MILK.  Beat  up  an  egg, 
and  add  to  it  a  tea  spoonful  of  flour. 
Mix  it  smooth  with  a  tea-spoonful 
of  cold  milk,  and  put  to  it  a  pint  of 
boiling  milk.  Stir  it  over  a  slow  fire 
till  it  boils,  then  pour  it  out,  and 
add  a  little  sugar  and  nutmeg.  The 
saucepan  should  have  a  little  cold 
water  put  into  it  first,  to  prevent 
the  milk  from  burning  at  the  bottom, 
or  marbles  boiled  in  it  will  answer 
the  same  purpose. 

THICKENED  GRAVY.  To  a 
quart  of  gravy  allow  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  thickening,  or  from  one  to  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  according 
to  the  thickness  required.  Put  a 
ladleful  of  the  gravy  into  a  basin 
with  the  thickening,  stir  it  up  quick, 
add  the  rest  by  degrees,  till  it  is  all 
well  mixed.  Then  pour  it  back  into 
a  stewpan,  and  leave  it  by  the  side 
of  the  fire  to  simmer  for  half  an 
hour  longer,  that  the  thickening  may 
be  thoroughly  incorporated  with  the 
gravy.  Let  it  neither  be  too  pale 
nor  too  dark  a  colour.  If  not, thick 
enough,  let  it  stew  longer,  or  add  to 
it  a  little  glaze  or  portable  soup.  If 
too  thick,  it  may  be  diluted  with  a 
spoonful  or  too  of  warm  broth  or 
water. 

THICKENED  SOUP.  Put  into 
a  small  stewpan  three  table-spoon- 
fuls of  the  fat  taken  off  the  soup, 
and  mix  it  with  four  table-spoonfuls 
of  flour.  Pour  in  a  ladleful  of  tht 
soup,  mix  it  with  the  rest  by  de- 
grees, and  boil  it  up  till  it  is  smooth. 
This  may  be  rendered  more  savoury 
by  adding  a  little  ketchup.  The 
435 


T  H  O 


T  HK 


soup  shoultl  be  strained  through  a 
tamniis. 

THICKENING.  Clarified  butter 
is  best  for  this  purpose,  or  put  some 
fresh  butter  into  a  stewpan  over  a 
slow  clear  fire.  When  it  is  melted, 
add  fine  flour  sufficient  to  make  it 
the  thickness  of  paste.  Stir  it  well 
together  with  a  wooden  spoon  for 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  till  it  is 
quite  smooth,  and  the  colour  of  a 
guinea.  This  must  be  done  very 
gradually  and  patiently,  or  it  will  be 
spoiled.  *Pour  it  into  an  earthen 
pan,  and  it  will  keep  good  a  fort- 
night in  summer,  and  longer  in  win- 
ter. Particular  attention  must  be 
paid  in  making  it ;  if  it  gets  any 
burnt  smell  or  taste,  it  will  spoil 
every  thing  it  is  put  into.  When 
cold,  it  should  be  thick  enQugh  to 
cut  out  with  a  knife,  like  a  solid 
paste.  This  is  a  very  essential  ar- 
ticle in  the  kitchen,  and  the  basis  of 
consistency  in  most  made  dishes, 
soups,  sauces,  and  ragouts.  In  mak- 
ing this  thickening,  the  less  butter 
and  the  more  flour  is  used  the  better. 
They  must  be  thoroughly  worked 
together,  and  the  broth  or  soup  add- 
ed by  degrees.  Unless  well  incor- 
porated, the  sauce  will  taste  floury, 
and  have  a  greasy  disagreeable  ap- 
pearance. To  prevent  this,  it  must 
be  finished  and  cleansed,  after  it  is 
thickened,  by  adding  a  little  broth 
or  warm  water,  and  setting  it  by 
the  side  of  the  fire  to  raise  any  fat 
that  is  not  thoroughly  incorporated 
with  the  gravy,  that  it  may  be  care- 
fully removed  as  it  comes  to  the  top. 
Some  cooks  merely  thicken  their 
soups  and  sauces  with  flour,  or  the 
farina  of  potatoe  ;  and  others  use 
the  fat  skimmings  off"  the  top  of 
broth,  as  a  substitute  for  butter. 

THORNS  AND  SPLINTERS. 
To  run  prickles  or  thorns,  such  as 
those  of  roses,  thistles,  and  chess- 
nuts,  or  little  splinters  of  wood  or 
bone,  into  the  hands,  feet,  or  legai^ 
is  a  very  common  accident,  and  pro- 
436 


vided  any  such  substance  be  imme 
diately  extracted,  it  is  seldom  at- 
tended with  any  bad  consequences. 
But  the  more  certain  prevention  is 
a  compress  of  linen  dipped  in  warm 
water,  and  applied  to  the  part,  or 
to  bathe  it  a  little  while  in  warm 
water.  If  the  thorn  or  splinter  can- 
not be  extracted  directly,  or  if  any 
part  of  it  be  left  in,  it  causes  an 
inflammation,  and  nothing  but  timely 
precaution  will  prevent  its  coming 
to  an  abscess.  A  plaster  of  shoe- 
maker's wax  spread  upon  leather, 
draws  these  wounds  remarkably  well. 
When  it  is  known  that  any  part  of 
the,  splinter  remains,  an  expert  sur- 
geon would  open  the  place  and  take 
it  out ;  but  if  it  be  unobserved,  as 
will  sometimes  happen  when  the 
substance  is  very  small,  till  the  in- 
flammation begins,  and  no  advice 
can  at  once  be  procured,  the  steam 
of  water  should  be  applied  to  it  first, 
and  then  a  poultice  of  bread  crumb 
and  milk,  with  a  few  drops  of  peru- 
vian  balsam.  It  is  quite  necessary 
that  the  injured  part  should  be  kept 
in  the  easiest  posture,  and  as  still  as 
possible.  If  this  does  not  soon  suc- 
ceed, good  advice  must  be  procured 
without  delay,  as  an  accident  of  this 
kind  neglected,  or  improperly  treat- 
ed, may  be  the  occasion  of  losing 
a  limb.  In  this  and  all  other  cases 
of  inflammation,  a  forbearance  from 
animal  food  and  fermented  liquors, 
is  always  advisable. 

THRUSH.  This  disorder  in  chil- 
dren affects  the  mouth  and  throat, 
and  sometimes  the  stomach.  In  the 
former  case  it  will  be  sufficient  to 
cleanse  the  mouth  with  a  little  sage 
tea,  sweetened  with  the  honey  of 
roses,  and  mixed  with  a  dram  of 
borax.  In  the  latter,  great  benefit 
may  be  derived  from  a  decoction  of 
carrots  in  water,  or  an  ounce  of 
linseed  boiled  in  a  pint  of  water  till 
reduced  to  a  consistence,  and  sweet- 
ened with  two  ounces  of  honey,  a 
table-spoonfid   of    which   may    be 


THY 


THY 


given  occasionally.  This  complaint 
may  generally  be  prevented  by  a 
due  attention  to  cleanliness,  daily 
washing  and  bathing  the  child  in 
lukewarm  water,  washing  its  mouth 
after  it  has  been  applied  to  the 
l)reast,  giving  it  pure  air,  and  remov- 
ing any  obstruction  in  the  bow- 
els by  the  use  of  manna  or  tama- 
jinds. 

THYME.  These  plants  may  be 
easily  raised  from  seed,  by  slipping 
the  roots  and  branches,  and  by  cut- 
tings ;  but  the  seed  method  is  seldom 
practised,  except  with  the  second 
sort,  or  garden  thyme.  The  seed 
should  be  sown  in  the  early  spring  on 
light,  rich,  dry  ground,  which  should 
be  properly  dug  over,  and  the  surface 
be  made  moderately  smooth  with  the 
spade.  As  the  seed  is  small,  it  should 
not  be  sown  too  thick,  or  be  covered 
too  deep  :  the  seed  is  best  sown  while 
the  ground  is  fresh  stirred,  either 
broad-cast  on  the  surface,  raking  it 
in  lightly,  or  in  flat  shallow  drills, 
earthed  over  thinly  :  the  plants  ap- 
pear in  two  or  three  weeks.  It  is  ne- 
cessary to  be  careful  to  keep  them 
well  weeded,  giving  occasional  light 
waterings  in  dry  weather;  and  by 
June  they  will  require  thinning,  es- 
pecially if  the  plants  are  to  grow 
stocky,  and  with  bushy  full  heads ; 
in  which  case  they  should  be  set  out 
to  six  or  eight  inches  distance  ;  when 
those  thinned  out  may  be  planted  in 
another  place,  in  rows  six  or  eight 
inches  asunder,  giving  water  till  fresh 
rooted,  keeping  the  whole  clean  from 
weeds  by  occasional  hoeing  between 
them  in  dry  days,  which  will  also  stir 
the  surface  of  the  earth,  and  much 
improve  the  growth  of  the  plants  : 
they  will  be  in  perfection  for  use  in 
summer,  or  early  in  autumn.  Some 
think  the  common  thyme  best  culti- 
vated for  kitchen  use  in  beds  or  bor- 
ders, in  rows  at  least  half  a  foot 
apart,  employing  for  the  purpose  ei- 
ther the  young  seedling  plants,  which 
are  fit  to  set  out,  or  the  root  slips  of 
'>ld  plants,   each  of  which  soon  in- 


crease into  plants  of  bushy  growths 
proper   for  being   cropped   for  the 
above  use.  It  may  also  often  be  well 
cultivated  as  an  edging  to  herbary 
and  other  compartments  ;  in  both  of 
which  methods  the  plants  multiply 
exceedingly  fast  by  offsets,  and  are 
abiding,  furnishing  the  means  of  great 
future  increase.    Some  should,  how- 
ever, always  be  annually  raised  from 
seed  in  the  above  manner,  as  such 
plants   possess  a  stronger  aromatic 
quality  than   those  from  old  ones. 
When  it  is  intended  to  increase  any 
particular    varieties,    and    continue 
them  the  same  with  certainty,  it  can 
only  be  effected  by  slips  and  cuttings. 
In  respect  to  the  off'sets  and  slips,  all 
the   sorts  multiply  by  off'sets  of  the 
root  and  slips  of  the  branches :  th^ 
rooted  slips  are  the  most  expeditious 
method,  as  the  old  plants  increase 
into  many  off'set  stems  rising  from  the 
root,  each  furnished  with  fibres ;  and 
by  taking  up  the  old  plants  in  the 
spring,  &c.  and  slipping  or  dividing 
them   into  separate  parts,    not  too 
small,  with  roots  to  each,  and  plant- 
ing them  in  beds  of  good  earth,  in 
rows  half  a  foot  asunder,  giving  wa- 
ter directly,   and  repeating  it  occa- 
sionally in  dry  weather  till  they  have 
taken   root,  and  begin  to  shoot   at 
top  ;  they  soon  grow  freely,  and  form 
good   bushy  plants  in  two  or  three 
months.     The   strong   slips   of  the 
branches  without  roots,  succeed  when 
planted  any  time  in  the  early  spring 
season  in  a  shady  border,  in  rows 
four  or  five  inches  distant,  giving  due 
waterings ;  and  become  good  plants 
by  autumn,  when  they  may  be  plant- 
ed out  where   they  are  to  remain. 
The  cuttings  of  the  young  branches 
grow  readily,  the  same  as  the  slips, 
when  planted  at  the  same  season  in 
a  shady   place,   and  well   watered. 
The  common  thyme  is  in  universal 
use  as  a  pot-herb  for  various  culi- 
nary purposes ;  it  may  also  be  em- 
ployed in  assemblage  with  other  small 
plants,   to   embellish    the   fronts  of 
flower-borders,    shrubbery    clumps, 
437 


TIN 


TIN 


small  and  sloping  banks,  &c.  placing 
the  plants  detached  or  singly,  to  form 
little  bushy  tufts,  and  in  which  the 
variegated  sorts,  and  the  silver  thyme 
and  lemon  thyme  particularly,  form 
a  very  agreeable  variety.  The  lemon 
thyme  is  also  in  much  estimation 
for  its  peculiar  odoriferous  smell. 
Some  of  each  of  these  sorts  may 
also  be  potted,  in  order  to  be  moved 
occasionally  to  any  particular  places 
as  may  be  required,  and  under  oc- 
casional shelter  in  severe  winters, 
to  preserve  the  plants  more  effectu- 
ally in  a  lively  state  ;  likewise  some 
of  the  raastick  thyme.  Spanish  and 
Portugal  thymes  are  also  sometimes 
potted  for  the  same  purpose,  and  to 
place  under  the  protection  of  a  gar- 
den frame  or  greenhouse  in  winter, 
to  continue  them  in  a  more  fresh 
and  lively  growth ;  and  sometimes 
some  of  the  smaller  thymes  are  sown 
or  planted  for  edgings  to  particular 
beds  or  borders  for  variety,  such  as 
the  lemon  thyme,  silver-leaved  and 
variegated  sorts  ;  also  occasionally 
the  common  thyme  ;  and  all  kept 
low,  close  and  regular,  by  clip- 
ping them  at  the  sides  and  tops  an- 
nually in  the  summer  season.  All 
the  several  sorts  and  varieties  pos- 
sess an  aromatic  quality,  which 
principally  resides  in  the  leaves, 
whence  it  is  imparted  and  affords 
a  fine  agreeable  fragrance.  But  the 
first  three  kinds  are  much  the  most 
noted  and  valued  in  kitchen  gardens, 
and  more  especially  the  common 
thyme,  which  is  so  very  useful  as  a 
culinary  herb. 

TIN  COVERS.  Properly  to  clean 
tin  covers  and  pewter  pots,  get  the 
finest  whiting,  which  is  only  sold  in 
large  cakes,  the  small  being  mixed 
with  sand.  Powder  and  mix  a  little 
of  it  with  a  drop  of  sweet  oil,  rub 
the  pots  and  covers  well  with  it, 
and  wipe  them  clean.  Then  dust 
over  some  dry  whiting  in  a  muslin 
bag,  and  rub  the  articles  bright  with 
dry  leather.  The  last  is  to  prevent 
rust,  which  must  be  carcfullv  guard- 
438 


ed  against  by  wiping  thoroughly 
dry,  and  setting  them  by  the  fire 
when  they  come  from  table.  If 
covers  are  once  hung  up  without 
wiping,  the  steam  will  be  sure  to 
rust  the  inside. 

TINCTURE  OF  ALLSPICE. 
Bruise  three  ounces  of  allspice,  and 
steep  it  in  a  quart  of  brandy.  Shake 
it  up  occasionally  and  after  a  fort- 
night pour  off  the  clear  liquor.  It 
makes  a  most  grateful  addition  in 
all  cases  where  allspice  is  used,  in 
gravies,  or  to  flavour  and  preserve 
potted  meats. 

TINCTURE  OF  BARK.'  To 
mal^e  the  compound  tincture,  take 
two  ounces  of  Peruvian  bark  pow- 
dered, half  an  ounce  of  Seville 
orange  peel,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
bruised  cinnamon.  Infuse  the  whole 
in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  brandy,  let  it 
stand  five  or  six  days  in  a  close  ves- 
sel, and  then  strain  off  the  tincture. 
Take  one  or  two  tea-spoonfuls  twice 
a  day  in  any  suitable  liquor,  sharp- 
ened with  a  few  drops  of  the  spirits 
of  vitriol.  This  tincture  is  highly 
beneficial  in  intermitting  fevers,  and 
in  slow,  nervous,  or  putrid  fevers, 
especially  towards  their  decline. 

TINCTURE  OF  CINNAMON. 
This  exhilirating  cordial  is  made  by 
pouring  a  bottle  of  the  best  brandy 
on  three  ounces  of  bruised  cinna- 
mon. A  tea-spoonful  of  it,  and  a 
lump  of  sugar,  in  a  glass  of  good 
sherry  or  madeira,  with  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  beaten  up  in  it,  was  formerly 
considered  as  the  balsam  of  life. 
Two  tea-spoonfuls  of  it  in  a  wine 
glass  of  water,  are  at  present  a  very 
pleasant  remedy  in  nervous  languors, 
and  in  relaxations  of  the  boweJs.  In 
the  latter  case,  five  drops  of  lauda- 
num may  be  added  to  each  dose. 

TINCTURE  OF  CLOVES.  Bruise 
three  ounces  of  cloves,  steep  them 
for  ten  days  in  a  quart  of  brandy, 
and  strain  off  the  tincture  through 
a  flannel  sieve.  It  imparts  an  ex- 
cellent flavour  to  mulled  wine.  In 
all  cases  tinctures  are  to  be  preferred 


TO  A 


TOM 


to  essences,  as  aflfording  a  much  finer 
flavour. 

TINCTURE  OF  LEMON  PEEL. 
A  very  easy  and  economical  way  of 
obtaining  and  preserving  the  flavour 
of  lemon  peel,  is  to  fill  a  wide- 
mouthed  pint  bottle  half  full  of  bran- 
dy or  rum  ;  and  when  a  lemon  is 
used,  pare  off  the  rind  very  thin, 
and  put  it  into  the  spirits.  In  the 
course  of  a  fortnight  the  liquor  will 
be  strongly  flavoured  with  the  lemon. 

TINCTURE  OF  NUTMEG. 
Steep  three  ounces  of  nutmeg  in  a 
quart  of  brandy,  and  let  it  stand  a 
fortnight.  Shake  it  up  occasionally, 
and  then  pour  off  the  clear  liquor. 

TINCTURE  OF  RHUBARB. 
Take  two  ounces  and  a  half  of  rhu- 
barb, and  half  an  ounce  of  lesser 
cardamon  seeds  ;  steep  them  for  a 
week  in  a  quart  of  brandy,  and 
strain  off  the  tincture.  To  make 
the  bitter  tincture  of  rhubarb,  add 
an  ounce  of  gentian  root,  and  a 
dram  of  snake  root.  The  tincture 
is  of  great  use  in  case  of  indigestion, 
pain  or  weakness  of  the  stomach  ; 
and  from  one  to  three  or  four  spoon- 
fuls may  be  taken  every  day. 

TINGEING  OF  GLASS.  The  art 
of  tingeing  glass  of  various  colours 
is  by  mixing  with  it,  while  in  a  state 
of  fusion,  some  of  the  metallic  ox- 
ides ;  and  on  this  process,  well  con- 
ducted, depends  the  formation  of 
pastes.  Blue  glass  is  formed  by 
means  of  oxide  of  cobalt;  green, 
by  the  oxide  of  iron  or  copper; 
violet,  by  oxide  of  manganese  ;  red, 
by  a  mixture  of  the  oxides  of  copper 
and  iron  ;  purple,  by  the  purple 
oxide  of  gold  ;  white,  by  the  ox- 
ides of  arsenic  and  of  zinc  ;  yellow, 
by  the  oxide  of  silver,  and  by  com- 
bustible bodies. 

TOAST  AND  WATER.  Take  a 
slice  of  fine  and  stale  loaf-bread, 
cut  very  thin,  (as  thin  a3  toast  is 
ever  cut)  and  let  it  be  carefully 
toasted  on  both  sides,  until  it  be 
completely  browned  all  over,  but  no 
wise  blackened   or  burned    in  any 


way.  Put  this  into  a  common  deep 
stone  or  china  jug,  and  pour  over  it, 
from  the  tea  kettle,  as  much  clean 
boiling  water  as  you  wish  to  make 
into  drink.  Much  depends  on  the 
water  being  actually  in  a  boiling 
state.  Cover  the  jug  with  a  saucer 
or  plate,  and  let  the  drink  stand  until 
it  be  quite  cold  ;  it  is  then  fit  to  be 
used ;  the  fresher  it  is  made  the 
better,  and  of  course  the  more  agree- 
able. The  above  will  be  found  a 
pleasant,  light,  and  highly  diuretic 
drink.  It  is  peculiarly  grateful  to 
the  stomach,  and  excellent  for  car- 
rying off  the  effects  of  any  excess  in 
drinking.  It  is  also  a  most  excel- 
lent drink  at  meals,  and  may  be  used 
in  the  summer  time,  if  more  agree- 
able to  the  drinker. 

TOASTED  CHEESE.  Mix  some 
fine  butter,  made  mustard,  and  salt, 
into  a  mass.  Spread  it  on  fresh 
made  thin  toasts,  and  grate  some 
Gloucester  cheese  upon  them. 

TOMATOES.  These  are  chiefly 
used  in  soups  and  sauces,  and  serve 
as  little  dishes  at  table  at  any  part 
of  a  dinner.  When  they  are  to  be 
baked,  cut  the  tomatoes  lengthways 
in  the  middle,  with  the  part  where 
there  is  a  rind  downwards.  Strew 
upon  each  a  seasoning  of  pepper, 
salt,  and  sweet  herbs  chopped  small. 
Set  them  in  the  oven  till  they  arc 
soft,  and  serve  them  up,  without 
any  other  sauce.  The  fruit  of  the 
purple  egg  plant  is  eaten,  prepared 
in  the  same  manner. 

TOMATA  SAUCE.  For  hot  or 
cold  meats  put  tomatas,  when  per- 
fectly ripe,  into  an  earthen  jar. 
Set  it  in  an  oven  when  the  bread  is 
drawn,  till  they  are  quite  soft;  then 
separate  the  skins  from  the  pulp, 
and  mix  this  with  capsicum  vinegar, 
and  a  few  cloves  of  pounded  garlic, 
which  must  both  be  proportioned  to 
the  quantity  of  fruit.  Add  pow 
dered  ginger  and  salt  to  taste.  Some 
white  wine  vinegar  and  cayenne  may 
be  used  instead  of  capsicum  vinegar. 
Keep  the  mixture  in  small  wide- 
439 


TON 


TOU 


^   hiouthed  bottles,  vvcjll  corked,  and 
ill  a  cool  dry  place. 

TONGUES.  When  a  tongue  is 
intended  to  be  eaten  cold,  season  it 
with  common  salt  and  saltpetre, 
brown  sugar,  a  little  bay  salt,  pep- 
per, cloves,  mace,  and  allspice,  in 
fine  powder,  and  let  it  lie  a  fort- 
night. Then  take  away  the  pickle, 
put  the  tongue  into  a  small  pan,  and 
lay  some  butter  on  it.  Cover  it  with 
brown  crust,  and  bake  it  slowly  till 
it  becomes  so  tender  that  a  straw 
would  go  through  it.  The  thin  part 
of  tongues,  when  hung  up  to  dry, 
grates  like  hung  beef,  and  also  makes 
a  fine  addition  to  the  flavour  of 
omlets. — To  boil  a  tongue.  If  it  is 
a  dried  tongue,  soak  it  over  night ; 
the  next  day  put  it  into  cold  water, 
and  let  it  have  a  good  deal  of  room  ; 
it  will  take  at  least  four  hours.  If 
it  is  a  green  tongue  out  of  the  pickle, 
you  need  not  soak  it,  but  it  will  re- 
quire near  the  same  time.  About 
an  hour  before  you  send  it  to  table, 
take  it  out  and  blanch  it,  then  put 
it  into  the  pot  again  till  you  want  it, 
by  this  means  it  will  eat  the  ten- 
derer. 

TONGUE  AND  UDDER.  Clean 
the  tongue  nicely,  rub  it  with  salt,  a 
vi?ry  little  saltpetre,  and  a  little 
coarse  sugar,  and  let  it  lie  for  two 
or  three  days.  When  to  be  dressed, 
have  a  fresh  tender  udder  with  some 
fat  to  it,  and  boil  that  and  the  tongue 
gently  till  half  done.  Take  them 
very  clean  out  of  the  water,  then  tie 
the  thick  end  of  the  one  to  the  thin 
end  of  the  other,  and  roast  thera 
with  a  few  cloves  stuck  into  the  ud- 
der. Serve  them  up  with  gravy  in 
the  dish,  and  currant  jelly  in  a  tu- 
reen. A  dried  tongue  to  be  boiled, 
requires  to  be  previously  soaked  for 
ten  or  twelve  hours.  A  tongue  out 
of  pickle  is  only  to  be  washed,  and 
boiled  in  the  same  way.  It  will 
take  four  hours  to  do  it  well,  and 
for  the  first  two  hours  it  should  only 
simmer.  About  an  hour  before  it  is 
done  it  should  be  taken  up  and 
440 


peeled,  and  then  put  into  the  boiler 
again  to  finish  it.  Serve  it  up  with 
turnips  nicely  mashed,  and  laid 
round  it. 

TOOTH  ACH.  The  best  possi- 
ble preventive  of  this  disorder  is 
to  keep  the  teeth  clean,  as  directed 
for  the  Teeth  and  Gums.  If  the 
gums  be  inflamed,  recourse  should 
be  had  to  bleeding  by  leeches,  and 
blisters  behind  the  ears.  A  few 
drops  of  laudanum  in  cotton,  laid 
on  the  tooth,  will  sometimes  aft'ord 
relief.  In  some  cases,  vitriolic  aether 
dropped  on  the  cheek,  and  the  hand 
held  to  the  part  till  the  liquid  is  eva- 
porated, is  found  to  answer  the  pur- 
pose. But  it  is  much  easier  to  pre- 
scribe the  means  of  preventing  the 
disorder,  than  to  point  out  a  specific 
remedy  ;  and  the  nostrums  generally 
given  on  this  subject  are  either  in- 
effectual or  injurious. 

TOURTE  CRUST.  To  make  a 
crust  for  French  pies  called  tourtes, 
take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  flour, 
a  pound  of  butter,  and  three  quar- 
ters of  an  ounce  of  salt.  Put  the 
flour  upon  a  clean  pie  board,  make 
a  hole  in  the  middle,  and  put  in  the 
salt,  with  the  butter  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Pour  in  the  water  carefully, 
as  it  is  of  great  importance  that  the 
crust  be  rather  stiff;  and  for  this 
purpose  there  should  only  be  just 
water  enough  to  make  it  hold  toge- 
ther so  as  to  roll  it  out  smooth. 
Work  up  the  butter  and  water  well 
together  with  the  hand,  and  mix  it 
in  the  flour  by  degrees.  When  the 
flour  is  all  mixed  in,  mould  the  paste 
till  it  is  quite  smooth  and  free  from 
lumps,  and  let  it  lie  two  hours  be- 
fore it  be  used.  This  is  a  very  nice 
crust  for  putting  round  the  dish  for 
baked  puddinsfs. 

TOURTESOF  FISH.  Prepare 
the  crust  and  put  it  into  the  dish, 
as  for  meat  tourtes.  Then  take  al- 
most any  kind  of  fish,  cut  them  from 
the  backbone,  and  lay  them  in  slices 
upon  the  crust,  with  a  little  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs  in  the  middle,  some  salt 


TOU 


TR  A 


and  pounded  spice,  according  to  the 
taste.  Lay  butter  all  over  the  top 
crust,  and  bake  it  an  hour  and  a 
half.  Cut  the  crust  round  after  it 
is  baked,  take  out  the  herbs,  skim 
off  the  remainder  of  the  fat,  pour  on 
a  sauce  of  fish  gravy,  and  serve  it 
up.  Mushrooms  are  very  nice  in 
the  sauce,  and  so  are  capers,  but 
the  flavour  of  the  sauce  must  be  re- 
gulated by  the  taste.  Truffles  and 
morels  may  also  be  put  in,  as  in  the 
meat  tourtes.  Eels,  pike,  salmon, 
tench,  whiting,  are  proper  for  the 
purpose.  Nothing  makes  a  nicer 
tourte  in  this  way  than  large  soles, 
taking  off  the  flesh  from  the  back- 
bone, without  the  side  fins.  Lob- 
sters also  make  an  excellent  tourte, 
and  oysters  are  very  nice  mixed  with 
other  fish. 

TOURTES  OF  MEAT.  Prepare 
a  crust  of  paste,  roll  it  out,  and  line 
a  dish  with  it  not  deeper  than  a 
common  plate.  Veal,  chicken,  pi- 
geons, sweetbread,  or  game  of  any 
kind,  may  be  prepared  as  follows. 
Cut  in  pieces  whichever  is  preferred, 
just  heat  it  in  water,  drain  it,  season 
it  with  pepper  and  salt,  lay  it  upon 
the  crust  without  piling  it  up  high, 
and  leave  a  border  round  the  rim  of 
the  dish.  Place  some  pieces  of  but- 
ter upon  the  meat  to  keep  it  moist, 
and  add  truffles,  mushrooms,  morels, 
artichoke  bottoms,  or  forcemeat 
balls,  at  pleasure.  Cover  the  whole 
with  slices  of  fat  bacon,  and  then 
lay  a  crust  over  it  exactly  corres- 
ponding with  that  underneath.  Glaze 
over  the  upper  crust  with  yolk  of 
egg,  and  set  the  tourte  into  an  oven. 
When  it  has  been  in  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  draw  it  to  the  mouth  of  the 
oven,  and  make  a  hole  in  the  centre 
of  the  crust  to  let  out  the  fumes. 
Let  it  stand  nearly  three  hours  longer 
in  the  oven,  then  take  it  out,  cut  the 
crust  round  with  the  rim,  take  it  oft", 
take  out  the  bacon,  and  clear  off 
any  fat  that  may  remain  on  the  top. 
,  Have  ready  a  rich  ragout  sauce  to 
pour  over  it,  then  replace  the  crust, 


and  serve  it  up.  This  dish  is  ac- 
cording to  the  French  fashion. 
TRANSPARENT  MARMALADE. 
Cut  the  palest  Seville  oranges  in 
quarters,  take  out  the  pulp,  and  put 
it  in  a  bason,  picking  out  the  seeds 
and  skins.  Let  the  outsides  soak  in 
water  with  a  little  salt  all  night, 
then  boil  them  in  a  good  quantity 
of  spring  water  till  tender  ;  drain, 
and  cut  them  in  very  thin  slices,  and 
put  them  to  the  pulp.  To  every 
pound,  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
double-refined  sugar  beaten  fine ; 
boil  them  together  twenty  minutes, 
but  be  careful  not  to  break  the  slices. 
It  must  be  stirred  all  the  time  very 
gently,  and  put  into  glasses  when 
cold. 

TRANSPARENT  PAINTINGS. 
The  paper  must  be  fixed  in  a 
straining  frame,  in  order  to  place  it 
between  the  eye  and  the  light,  when 
required.  After  tracing  the  design, 
the  colours  must  be  laid  on,  in  the 
usual  method  of  stained  drawings. 
When  the  tints  are  got  in,  place  the 
picture  against  the  window,  on  a 
pane  of  glass  framed  for  the  pur- 
pose, and  begin  to  strengthen  the 
shadows  with  Indian  ink,  or  with 
colours,  according  as  the  effect  re- 
quires ;  laying  the  colours  some- 
times on  both  sides  of  the  paper,  to 
give  greater  force  and  depth  of  co- 
lour. The  last  touches  for  giving 
final  strength  to  shadows  and  forms, 
are  to  be  done  with  ivory  black  or 
lamp  black,  prepared  with  gum  wa- 
ter ;  as  there  is  no  pigment  so  opaque, 
and  capable  of  giving  strength  and 
decision.  When  the  drawing  is 
finished,  and  every  part  has  got  its 
depth  of  colour  and  brilliancy,  be- 
ing perfectly  dry,  touch  very  care- 
fully with  spirits  of  turpentine,  on 
both  sides,  those  parts  which  are  to 
be  the  brightest,  such  as  the 'moon 
and  fire  ;  and  those  parts  requiring 
less  brightness,  only  on  one  side. 
Then  lay  on  immediately  with  a 
pencil,  a  varnish  made  by  dissolving 
one  ounce  of  Canada  balsam  in  an 
3  L  441 


TR  A 


TRA 


equal  quantity  of  spirit  of  turpentine. 
Be  cautious  with  the  varnish,  as  it  is 
apt  to  spread.     When  the  varnish  is 
dry,  tinge  the  flame  with  red  lead 
and  gamboge,  sHghtly  touching  the 
smoke  next  the  flame.     The  moon 
must  not  be  tinted  with  colour.  Much 
depends  on  the  choice  of  the  subject, 
and  none  is  so  admirably  adapted  to 
this  species  of  eflect,  as  the  gloomy 
Gothic  ruin,  whose  antique  towers  and 
pointed  turrets  finely  contrast  their 
dark  battlements  with  the  pale  yet  bril- 
ilant  moon.    The  effect  of  rays  pass- 
ing through  the  ruined  windows,  half 
choked  with  ivy  ;  or  of  a  fire  anjong 
the   clustering    pillars    and    broken 
monuments     of    the    choir,     round 
which   are   figures    of  banditti,    or 
others,  whose  haggard  faces  catch 
the   reflecting  hght ;    affbrd  a    pe- 
culiarity of  effect  not  to  be  equal- 
ed in  any  other  species  of  painting. 
Internal   views   of  cathedrals    also, 
where  windows  of  stained  ^lass  are 
introduced,  have  a  beautiful   eff*ect. 
The  great  point  to  be  attained  is, 
a    happy  coincidence  between    the 
subject  and  the  effect  produced.  The 
fine  light  should  not  be  too  near  the 
moon,  as  its  glare  would  tend  to  in- 
jure her  pale  silver  light.      Those 
parts    which    are     not    interesting, 
should  be  kept  in  an  undistinguish- 
ing  gloom  ;  and  where  the  principal 
Hght  is,  they  should  be  marked  with 
precision.    Groups  of  figures  should 
be  well  contrasted  ;  those  in  shadow 
crossing  those  that  are  in  light,  by 
which  means  the  opposition  of  light 
against  shade  is  effected. 

TRANSPARENT  PUDDING. 
Beat  up  eight  eggs,  put  them  into  a 
stewpan,  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar 
finely  pounded,  the  same  quantity  of 
butter,  and  some  grated  nutmeg.  Set 
it  on  the  fire,  and  keep  it  stirring  till 
it  thickens.  Then  set  it  into  a  basin 
to  cool,  put  a  rich  puff"  paste  round 
the  dish,  pour  in  the  pudding,  and 
])ake  it  in  a  moderate  oven.  It  will 
cut  light  and  clear.  Candied  orange 
and  citron  mav  be  added  if  approved. 
442 


TRASPLANTING  OF  FLOW- 
ERS. Ainiuals  and  perennials,  sown 
in  March  or  April,  may  be  transplant- 
ed about  the  end  t)f  May.  A  showery 
season  is  preferable,  or  they  must 
frequently  be  watered  till  they  have 
taken  root.  In  the  summer  time  <he 
evening  is  the  proper  season,  and 
care  should  be  taken  not  to  break 
the  fibres  in  digging  up  the  root. 
Chinasters,  columbines,  marigolds, 
pinks,  stocks,  hollyhocks,  mallows, 
sweetwilliams,  wallflowers,  and  va- 
rious others,  may  be  sown  and  trans- 
planted in  this  manner. 

TRAPS.  Garden  traps,  such  as 
are  contrived  for  the  purpose  of  de- 
stroying mice  and  other  vermin ; 
which  are  often  conveyed  into  such 
places  with  the  straw,  litter,  and  other 
matters  that  are  made  use  of  in  them ; 
and  which  are  extremely  hurtful  and 
troublesome  in  the  spring  season,  in 
destroying  peas  and  beans,  as  well 
as  lettuces,  melons,  and  cucumbers 
in  frames.  Traps  for  this  purpose 
are  contrived  in  a  great  many  ways  ; 
but  as  field  vermin  are  very  shy,  and 
will  rarely  enter  traps  which  are 
close,  the  following  simple  cheap 
form  has  been  advised,  though  it  has 
nothing  of  novelty  in  it.  These  traps 
may  be  made  by  stringing  garden  „ 
beans  on  a  piece  of  fine  pack-thread, 
in  the  manner  of  beads,  and  then 
driving  two  small  stake-like  pieces 
of  wood  into  the  ground  at  the  breadth 
of  a  brick  from  each  other,  and  set- 
ting up  a  brick,  flat  stone,  or  board 
with  a  weight  on  it,  inclining  to  an 
angle  of  about  forty-five  degrees ; 
tying  the  string,  with  the  beans  on 
it,  round  the  brick  or  other  substances 
and  stakes,  to  support  them  in  their 
inclining  position,  being  careful  to 
place  all  the  beans  on  the  under 
sides  of  the  bricks  or  other  matters. 
The  mice  in  eating  the  beans,  in  such 
cases,  will  also  destroy  the  pack- 
thread, and  by  such  means  disengage 
the  brick  or  other  weighty  body, 
which  by  falling  on  them  readily 
destroys   them.      Mice  are   ahvaya 


TR  E 


TRE 


best  got  rid  of  by  some  sort  of  sim- 
ple open  traps  of  this  nature. 

TREACLE  BEER.  Pour  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water  on  a  pound 
of  treacle,  and  stir  them  together. 
Add  six  quarts  of  cold  water, 
and  a  tea-cupful  of  yeast.  Tun 
it  into  a  cask,  cover  it  close  down, 
and  it  will  be  fit  to  drink  in  two  or 
three  days.  If  made  in  larj^e  quan- 
tities, or  intended  to  keep,  put  in  a 
handful  of  malt  and  hops,  and  when 
the  fermentation  is  over,  stop  it  up 
close. 

TREACLE  POSSET.  Add  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  treacle  to  a  pint 
of  milk,  and  when  ready  to  boil,  stir 
it  briskly  over  the  fire  till  it  curdles. 
Strain  it  off  after  standing  covered 
a  few  minutes.  This  whey  promotes 
perspiration,  is  suitable  for  a  cold, 
and  children  will  take  it  very 
freely. 

TREATMENT  OF  CHILDREN. 
It  ought  to  be  an  invariable  rule  with 
all  who  have  the  care  of  children, 
to  give  them  food  only  when  it  is 
needful.  Instead  of  observing  this 
simple  and  obvious  rule,  it  is  tqo 
common,  throughout  every  period  of 
childhood,  to  pervert  the  use  of  food 
by  giving  it  when  it  is  not  wanted, 
and  consequently  when  it  does  mis- 
chief, not  only  in  a  physical  but  in 
a  moral  point  of  view.  To  give  food 
as  an  indulgence,  or  in  a  way  of  re- 
ward, or  to  withhold  it  as  a  matter 
of  punishment,  are  alike  'injurious. 
A  proper  quantity  of  food  is  neces- 
sary in  all  cases,  to  sustain  their 
health  and  growth  ;  and  their  faults 
ought  to  be  corrected  by  more  ra- 
tional means.  The  idea  of  making 
them  suffer  in  their  health  and 
growth  on  account  of  their  behaviour, 
is  sufficient  to  fill  every  considerate 
mind  with  horror.  It  is  the  project 
only  of  extreme  weakness,  to  attempt 
to  correct  the  disposition  by  creat- 
ing bodily  sufferings,  which  are  so 
prone  to  hurt  the  temper,  even  at 
an  age  when  reason  has  gained  a 
more  powerful   ascendancy.     Eat- 


ables usually  given  to  childreu  by 
well-meaning   but  injudicious   per- 
sons, in  order  to  pacify  or  conciliate, 
are  still  worse  than  the  privations 
inflicted  by  way  of  punishment.  Su- 
gar   plums,    sugar    candy,    barley 
sugar,  sweetmeats,  and  most  kinds 
of  cakes,    are    unwholesome,    and 
cloying  to  the  appetite.     Till  chil- 
dren begin   to  run  about,  the  uni- 
formity of  their  lives  makes  it.  pro- 
bable that  the  quantity  of  food  they 
require  in    the    day   is   nearly    the 
same,  and  that  it  may  be  given  to 
them  statedly  at  the  same  time.    By 
establishing  a  judicious  regularity 
with  regard  to  both,  much  benefit 
will  accrue  to  their  health  and  com- 
fort.    The  same  rule  should  be  ap- 
plied   to  infants  at  the  breast,  as 
well  as  after  they  are  weaned.     By 
allowing   proper  intervals   between 
the  times  of  giving  children  suck, 
,the  breast  of  the   mother  becomes 
duly  replenished  with  milk,  and  the 
stomach  of  the  infant  properly  emp- 
tied to  receive  a  fresh  supply.     The 
supposition    that    an    infant   wants 
food  every  time  it  cries,   is  highly 
fanciful ;  and  it  is  perfectly  ridicu- 
lous to  see  the  poor  squalling  thing 
thrown  on  its  back,  and  nearly  suffo- 
cated with  food  to  prevent  its  cry- 
ing, when  it  is  more  likely  that  the 
previous  uneasiness  arises  from  an 
overloaded  stomach.    Even  the  mo- 
ther's milk,  the  lightest  of  all  food, 
will  disagree  with  the  child,  if  the 
administration  of  it  is   improperly 
repeated.    A  very  injurious  practice 
is  sometimes  adopted,  in  suckling  a 
child    beyond    the   proper   period, 
which  ought  by  all  means  to  be  dis- 
countenanced,  as    evidently    unna- 
tural, and  tending  to  produce  weak- 
ness both  in  body  and  mind.     Suck- 
ling should  not  be  continued  after 
the  cutting  of  the  first  teeth,  when 
the  clearest  indication  is  given,  that 
the  food  which  was  adapted  to  the 
earliest  stage  of  infancy  ceases  to 
be  prc^per.     Attention   should  also 
be  paid  to  the  quantity  as  well  as  to 
443 


TRE 


TRE 


quality  of  the  food  given,  for  though 
a  child  will  sleep  with  an  overloaded 
stomach,  it  will  not  be  the  refresh- 
ing sleep  of  health.  When  the 
stomach  is  filled  beyond  the  proper 
medium,  it  induces  a  similar  kind 
of  heaviness  to  that  arising  from 
opiates  and  intoxicating  liquors ; 
and  instead  of  awakening  refreshed 
and  lively,  the  child  will  be  heavy 
and  fretful.  By  the  tim6  that  chil- 
dren begin  to  run  about,  the  increase 
of  their  exercise  will  require  an  in- 
crease of  nourishment :  but  those 
who  overload  them  with  food  at  any 
time,  in  hopes  of  strengthening 
them,  are  very  much  deceived.  No 
prejudice  is  equally  fatal  to  such 
numbers  of  children.  Whatever  un- 
necessary food  a  child  receives, 
weakens  instead  of  strengthening  it: 
for  when  the  stomach  is  overfilled, 
its  power  of  digestion  is  impaired, 
and  food  undigested  is  so  far  from 
yielding  nourishment,  that  it  only 
serves  to  debilitate  the  whole  sys- 
tem, and  to  occasion  a  variety  of 
diseases.  Amongst  these  are  ob- 
structions, distention  of  the  body, 
rickets,  scrophula,  slow  fevers,  con- 
sumptions, and  convulsion  fits. 
Another  pernicious  custom  prevails 
with  regard  to  the  diet  of  children, 
when  they  begin  to  take  other  nou- 
rishment besides  their  mother's  milk, 
and  that  is  by  giving  them  such  as 
their  stomachs  are  unable  to  digest, 
and  indulging  them  also  in  a  mixture 
of  such  things  at  their  meals  as  are 
hurtful  to  every  body,  and  more  es- 
pecially to  children,  considering  the 
feeble  and  delicate  state  of  their 
organs.  This  injudicious  indulgence 
is  sometimes  defended  on  the  plea 
of  its  being  necessary  to  accustom 
them  to  all  kinds  of  food  ;  but  this 
idea  is  highly  erroneous.  Their 
stomachs  must  have  time  to  acquire 
strength  sufficient  to  enable  them  to 
digest  varieties  of  food  ;  and  the  fill- 
ing them  with  indigestible  things  is 
not  the  way  to  give  them  strength, 
('hildren  can  onlv  acquire  strength 
.  44 i 


gradually  with  their  proper  growth, 
w  hich  will  always  be  impeded  if  the 
stomach  is  disordered.  Food  for 
infants  should  be  very  simple,  and 
easy  of  digestion.  When  they  re- 
quire something  more  solid  than 
spoonmeats  alone,  they  should  have 
bread  with  them.  Plain  puddings, 
mild  vegetables,  and  wholesome  ripe 
fruits,  eaten  with  bread,  are  also- 
good  for  them.  Animal  food  is  bet- 
ter deferred  till  their  increased  ca- 
pacity for  exercise  will  permit  it 
with  greater  safety,  and  then  care 
must  be  taken  that  the  exercise  be 
proportioned  to  this  kind  of  food. 
The  first  use  of  it  should  be  gradual, 
not  exceeding  two  or  three  times  in 
a  week.  An  exception  should  be 
made  to  these  rules  in  the  instances 
of  scrophulous  and  rickety  children, 
as  much  bread  is  always  hurtful  in 
these  cases,  and  fruits  are  particu- 
larly pernicious.  Plain  animal  food 
is  found  to  be  the  most  suitable  to 
their  state.  The  utmost  care  should 
be  taken  under  all  circumstances  to 
procure  genuine  unadulterated  bread 
for  children,  as  the  great  support  of 
life.  If  the  perverted  habits  of  the 
present  generation  give  them  an  in- 
difference as  to  what  bread  they  eat,^ 
or  a  vitiated  taste  for  adulterated 
bread,  they  still  owe  it  to  their  chil- 
dren as  a  sacred  duty,  not  to  under- 
mine their  constitution  by  this  in- 
jurious composition.  The  poor,  and 
many  also  of  the  middling  ranks  of 
society  are  unhappily  compelled  to 
this  species  of  infanticide,  as  it  may 
almost  be  called,  by  being  driven 
into  large  towns  to  gain  a  subsist- 
ence, and  thus,  from  the  difticulty 
of  doing  otherwise,  being  obliged  to 
take  their  bread  of  bakers,  instead 
of  making  wholesome  bread  at  home, 
as  in  former  times,  in  more  favour- 
able situations.  While  these  are  to 
be  pitied,  what  shall  be  said  of  those 
whose  fortunes  place  them  above 
this  painful  neces^sity.  Let  them  at 
at  least  rear  their  children  on  whole- 
some foodj  and  with  unsophisticated 


T  R  E 


T  R  E 


habits,  as  the  most  unequivocal  tes- 
timony of  parental  affection  perform- 
ing its  duty  towards  its  offspring. 
It  is  proper  also  to  observe,  that 
children  ought  not  to  be  hurried  in 
their  eating,  as  it  is  of  great  import- 
ance that  they  should  acquire  a  ha- 
bit of  chewing  their  food  well.  They 
will  derive  from  it  the  various  ad- 
vantages of  being  less  likely  to  eat 
their  food  hot,  of  thus  preparing 
what  they  eat  properly  for  the  sto- 
mach, instead  of  imposing  upon  it 
what  is  the  real  office  of  the  teeth ; 
and  also  that  of  checking  them  from 
eating  too  much.  When  food  is  not 
properly  ma3ticated,  the  stomach 
is  longer  before  it  feels  satisfied  ; 
which  is  perhaps  the  most  frequent, 
and  certainly  the  most  excusable 
cause  of'  eating  more  than  is  fairly 
sufficient.  Thoughtless  people  will 
often,  for  their  own  amusement,  give 
children  morsels  of  high  dishes,  and 
sips  of  spirituous  or  fermented  li- 
quors, to  see  whether  they  will  relish 
them,  or  make  faces  at  them.  But 
trifling  as  this  may  seem,  it  would 
be  better  that  it  were  never  prac- 
tised, for  the  sake  of  preserving  the 
natural  purity  of  their  tastes  as  long 
as  possible. 

TREATMENT  OF  THE  SICK. 
Though  an  unskilful  dabbling  in 
cases  of  illness,  which  require  the 
attention  of  the  most  medical  prac- 
titioners, is  both  dangerous  and 
presumptuous  ;  yet  it  is  quite  ne- 
cessary that  those  who  have  the 
care  of  a  family  should  be  able  to 
afford  some  relief  in  case  of  need, 
as  well  as  those  whose  duty  it  is 
more  immediately  to  attend  upon 
the  sick.  Uneasy  symptoms  are 
<»xperienced  at  times  by  all  persons, 
not  amounting  to  a  decided  state  of 
disease,  which  if  neglected  may  ne- 
vertheless issue  in  some  serious  dis- 
order that  might  have  been  pre- 
vented, not  only  without  risk,  but 
even  with  greater  advantage  to  the 
individual  than  by  an  application  to 
a  positive  course  of  medicine.     At- 


tention to  the  state  of  the  bowels^ 
and  the  relief  that  may  frequently 
be  afforded  by  a  change  of  diet, 
come  therefore  very  properly  within 
the  sphere  of  domestic  management, 
in  connection  with  a  few  simple  me- 
dicines in  common  use.  The  sen- 
sations of  lassitude  or  weariness, 
stiffness  or  numbness,  less  activity 
than  usual,  less  appetite,  a  load  "or 
heaviness  at  the  stomach,  some  un- 
easiness in  the  head,  a  more  pro- 
found degree  of  sleep,  yet  less  com- 
posed and  refreshing  than  usual ; 
less  gaiety  and  liveliness,  a  slight 
oppression  of  the  breast,  a  less  re- 
gular pulse,  a  propensity  to  be  cold, 
or  to  perspire,  or  sometimes  a  sup- 
prcssioti  of  a  former  disposition  to 
perspire,  are  any  of  them  symp- 
tomatic of  a  diseased  state,  though 
not  to  any  very  serious  or  alarming 
degree.  Yet  under  such  circum- 
stances persons  are  generally  rest- 
less, and  scarcely  know  what  to  do 
with  themselves  ;  and  often  for  the 
sake  of  change,  or  on  the  supposition 
that  their  sensations  proceed  from 
lowness,  they  unhappily  adopt  the 
certain  means  of  making  them  ter- 
minate in  dangerous  if  not  fatal  dis- 
eases. They  increase  their  usual 
quantity  of  animal  food,  leave  off 
vegetables  and  fruit,  drink  freely  of 
wine  or  other  strong  liquors,  under 
an  idea  of  strengthening  the  sto- 
mach, and  expelling  wind  ;  all  of 
which  strengthen  nothing  but  the 
disposition  to  disease,  and  expel 
only  the  degree  of  health  yet  remain- 
ing. The  consequence  of  this  mis- 
^  taken  management  is,  that  all  the 
evacuations  are  restrained,  the  hu- 
mours causing  and  nourishing  the 
disease  are  not  at  all  attempered 
and  diluted,  nor  rendered  proper 
for  evacuation.  On  the  contrary  they 
become  sharper,  and  more  difficult 
to  be  discharged.  By  judicious  ma- 
nagement it  is  practicable,  if  not 
entirely  to  prevent  a  variety  of  dis- 
orders, yet  at  least  to  abate  their 
severity,  and  so  to  avert  the  ultimate 
445 


TR  E 


TRE 


danger.  As  soon  as  any  of  the  symp- 
toms begin  to  appear,  the  proper 
way  is  to  avoid  all  violent  or  labo- 
rious exercise,  and  to  indulge  in 
such  only  as  is  gentle  and  easy.  To 
take  very  little  or  no  solid  food,  and 
particularly  to  abstain  from  meat, 
or  flesh  broth,  eggs,  and  wine,  or 
other  strong  liquors.  To  drink 
plentifully  of  weak  diluting  liquor, 
by  small  glasses  at  a  time,  at  inter- 
vals of  about  half  an  hour.  If  these 
diluents  are  not  found  to  answer  the 
purpose  of  keeping  the  bowels  open, 
stronger  cathartics  must  be  taken, 
or  injections  for  the  bowels,  called 
lavements.  By  pursuing  these  pre- 
cautions, the  early  symptoms  of  dis- 
ease will  often  be  removed,  without 
coming  to  any  serious  issue  :  and 
even  where  this  is  not  the  case,  the 
disorder  will  be  so  lessened  as  to 
obviate  any  kind  of  danger  from  it. 
When  confirmed  diseases  occur,  the 
only  safe  course  is  to  resort  to  the 
most  skilful  medical  assistance  that 
can  be  obtained.  Good  advice  and 
few  medicines  will  much  sooner  ef- 
fect a  cure,  than  all  the  drugs  of  the 
apothecary's  shop  unskilfully  ad- 
ministered. But  the  success  of  the 
best  advice  may  be  defeated,  if  the 
patient  and  his  attendants  will  not 
concur  to  render  it  effectual.  If  the 
patient  is  to  indulge  longings  for 
improper  diet,  and  his  friends  are 
to  gratify  them,  the  advantage  of  the 
best  advice  may  be  defeated  by  one 
such  imprudent  measure.  Patients 
labouring  under  accidents  which 
require  surgical  assistance,  must  be 
required  strictly  to  attend  to  the 
same  directions.  General  regula- 
tions are  all  that  a  physician  or  sur- 
geon can  make  respecting  diet,  ma- 
ny other  circumstances  will  there- 
fore require  the  consideration  of 
those  who  attend  upon  the  sick,  and 
it  is  of  consequence  that  they  be 
well  prepared  to  undertake  their 
charge,  for  many  fatal  mistakes  have 
arisen  fiom  ignorance  and  preju- 
dice in  these  cases.  A  few  rules 
446 


that  may  be  referred  to  in  the  ab- 
sence of  a  medical  adviser,  are  all 
that  are  necessary  in  the  present  in- 
stance, more  especially  when  the 
patient  is  so  far  recovered  as  to  be 
released  from  medicines,  and  put 
under  a  proper  regimen,  with  the 
use  of  a  gentle  exercise,  and  such 
other  regulations  as  a  convalescent 
state  requires. — When  for  example, 
persons  are  labouring  under  acute 
disorders,  or  accidents,  they  are 
frequently  known  to  suff'er  from  the 
injudiciousness  of  those  about  them, 
in  covering  them  up  in  bed  with  a 
load  of  clothes  that  heat  and  debili- 
tate them  exceedingly,  or  in  keeping 
them  in  bed  when  the  occasion  does 
not  require  it,  without  even  suffer- 
ing them  to  get  up  and  have  it  new 
made,  and  by  never  allowing  a  breath 
of  fresh  air  to  be  admitted  into  the 
room.  The  keeping  patients  quiet 
is  undoubtedly  of  essential  import- 
ance ;  they  should  not  be  talked  to, 
nor  should  more  persons  be  admit- 
ted into  the  room  than  are  abso- 
lutely necessary.  Every  thing  that 
might  prove  offensive  should  imme- 
diately be  removed.  Sprinkling  the 
room  sometimes  with  vinegar,  will 
contribute  to  keep  it  in  a  better  state. 
The  windows  should  be  opened  oc- 
casionally for  a  longer  or  shorter 
time,  according  to  the  weather  and 
season  of  the  year,  without  suffer- 
ing the  air  to  come  immediately  up- 
on the  patient.  Waving  the  cham- 
ber door  backward  and  forward  for 
a  few  minutes,  two  or  three  times  in 
a  day,  ventilates  the  room,  without 
exposing  the  sick  person  to  chilness. 
Occasionally  burning  pastils  in  the 
room,  or  a  roll  of  paper,  is  also  use- 
ful. The  bed  linen,  and  that  of  the 
patient,  should  be  changed  every 
day,  or  in  two  or  three  days,  as  cir- 
cumstances may  require.  A  strict 
forbearance  from  giving  sick  persons 
any  nourishment  beyond  what  is 
prescribed  by  their  medical  attend- 
ant, should  invariably  be  observed. 
Some  persons  think  they  do  well  ia 


TRE 


TRE 


this   respect  to    cheat  the   doctor, 
while  ill  fact  they  cheat  the  patient 
out  of  the  benefit  of  his  advice,  and 
endanger  his  Ufe  under  a  pretence  of 
facilitating  his  recovery.  In  all  cases 
it  is  important  to  wait  with  patience 
the  sk  w  progress  of  recovery,  rather 
than  by  injudicious  means  to  attempt 
to  hasten  it ;  otherwise  the  desired 
event  will  only  be  retarded.     What 
has  long  been  undermining  the  sta- 
mina of  health,  which  is  commonly 
the  case  with  diseases,  or  what  has 
violently  shocked  it  by  accident,  can 
only  be  romoved  by   slow  degrees. 
Medicines  will   not   operate    like  a 
charm ;  and  even  when  they  are  most 
efficacious,  time  is  required  to  re- 
cover from  the  languid  state  to  which 
persons   are   always   reduced,  both 
by  accident  and  by  disease.     When 
the  period  is  arrived  at  which  sick 
persons  may  be  said  to  be  out  of 
danger,  a  great  deal  of  patience  and 
care  will  still  be  necessary  to  pre- 
vent a  relapse.     Much  of  this  will 
depend   on   the   convalescent  party 
being  content   for  some  time   with 
only  a  moderate  portion  of  food,  for 
we  are  not  nourished  in  proportion 
to  what  we  swallow,  but  to  what  we 
are  well  able  to  digest.     Persons  on 
their  recovery,  who  eat  moderately, 
digest  their  food,   and  grow  strong 
from    it.     Those  in    a  weak    state, 
who  eat  much,  do  not  digest  it ;  in- 
stead therefore  of  being  nourished 
and  strengthened  by  it,  they  insen- 
sibly  wither  away.     The  principal 
rules  to  be  observed  in  this  case  are, 
that  persons  in  sickness,  or  those  who 
are  slowly  recovering,   should  take 
very  little  nourishment   at  a   time, 
and  take  it  often.     Let  them  have 
only  one  sort  of  food  at  each  meal, 
and  not  change  their  food  too  often  ; 
and  be  careful  that  they  chew  their 
food  well,  to  make  it  easy  of  diges- 
tion.   Let  them  diminish  their  quan- 
tity of  drink.     The  best  drink  for 
them  in  general  is  water,  with  a  third 
or  fourth  part  of  white  wine.     Too 
great  a  quantity  of  liquids  at  such  a 


tiiiie  pirevents  the  stomach  from  re-^ 
covering  its  tone  and  strength,  im- 
pairs digestion,  promotes  debility, 
increases  the  tendency  to  a  swelling 
of  the  legs  ;  sometimes  it  even  occa- 
sions a  slow  fever,  and  throws  back 
the  patient  into  a  languid  state. 
Persons  recovering  from  sickness 
should  take  as  much  exercise  in  the 
open  air  as  they  are  able  to  bear, 
either  on  foot,  in  a  carriage,  or  on 
horseback  :  the  latter  is  by  far  the 
best.  The  airing  should  be  taken 
in  the  middle  of  the  day,  when  the 
weather  is  tennperate,  or  before  the 
principal  meal.  Exercise  taken  be- 
fore a  meal  strengthens  the  organs 
of  digestion,  and  therefore  tends  to 
health  ;  but  when  taken  after  a  meal, 
it  is  injurious.  As  persons  in  this 
state  are  seldom  quite  so  well  to- 
wards nighl,  they  should  take  very 
little  food  in  the  evening,  in  order 
that  their  sleep  may  be  less  disturb- 
ed and  more  refreshing.  It  would 
be  better  not  to  remain  in  bed  above 
seven  or  eight  hours ;  and  if  they 
feel  fatigued  by  sitting  up,  let  them 
lie  down  for  half  an  hour  to  rest. 
The  swelling  of  the  legs  and  ancles, 
which  happens  to  most  persons  in 
a  state  of  weakness  and  debility,  is 
attended  with  no  danger,  and  will 
generally  disappear  of  itself,  if  they 
live  soberly  and  regularly,  and  take 
moderate  exercise.  The  most  so- 
licitous attention  must  be  paid  to 
the  state  of  the  bowels ;  and  if  they 
are  not  regular,  they  must  be  kef^ 
open  every  day  by  artificial  means, 
or  it  will  produce  heat  and  restless- 
ness, and  pains  in  the  head.  Care 
should  be  taken  not  to  return  to  hard 
labour  too  soon  after  recovering  from 
illness  ;  some  persons  have  never  re- 
covered their  usual  strength  for  want 
of  this  precaution. — Common  colds, 
though  lightly  regarded,  are  often  of 
serious  consequence.  A  cold  is  an 
inflammatory  disease,  though  in  no 
greater  degree  than  to  aflect  the 
lungs  or  throat,  or  the  thin  mem- 
brane which  lines  the  nostrils,  and 
447 


T  R  E 


TRE 


the  inside  of  certain  cavities  in  the 
bones  of  the  cheeks  and  forehead. 
These  cavities  communicate  with  the 
nose  in  such  a  manner,  that  when  one 
part  of  this  membrane  is  affected 
with  inflammation,  it  is  easily  com- 
municated to  the  rest.  When  the 
disorder  is  of  this  slight  kind,  it  may 
easily  be  cured  without  medicine, 
by  only  abstaining  from  meat,  eggs, 
broth,  and  wine  ;  from  all  food  that 
is  sharp,  fat,  and  heavy.  Little  or 
no  supper  should  be  eaten,  but  the 
person  should  drink  freely  of  an  in- 
fusion of  barley,  or  of  elder  flowers, 
with  the  addition  of  a  third  or  fourth 
part  of  milk.  Bathing  the  feet  in 
warm  water  before  going  to  bed, 
will  dispose  the  patient  to  sleep.  In 
colds  of  the  head,  the  steam  of  warm 
water  alone,  or  of  water  in  which 
elder  flowers  or  some  mild  aromatic 
herbs  have  been  boiled,  will  generally 
afford  speedy  relief.  These  also  are 
serviceable  in  colds  which  aff'ect  the 
breast.  Hot  and  close  rooms  are 
very  hurtful  in  colds,  as  they  tend  to 
impede  respiration  ;  and  sitting  much 
over  the  fire  increases  the  disorder. 
Spermaceti  is  often  taken  in  colds 
and  coughs,  which  must  from  its 
greasy  nature  impair  the  digestive 
faculty,  and  cannot  operate  against 
the  cause  of  a  cold ;  though  the  cure 
of  it,  which  is  eff^ected  in  due  time 
by  the  economy  of  nature,  is  often 
ascribed  to  such  medicines  as  may 
rather  have  retarded  it.  Whenever 
*iEi  cold  does  not  yield  to  the  simple 
treatment  already  described,  good 
advice  should  be  procured,  as  a  neg- 
lected cold  is  often  the  origin  of  very 
serious  disorders.— A  few  observa- 
tions on  the  nature  of  the  diet  and 
drink  proper  for  sickly  persons,  will 
be  necessary  at  the  close  of  this  ar- 
ticle, for  the  information  of  those 
who  occasionally  undertake  the  care 
of  the  afflicted.  As  the  digestion  of 
sick  persons  is  weak,  and  very  similar 
to  that  of  children,  the  diet  suited  to 
the  latter  is  generally  proper  for  the 
former,  excepting  in  the  two  (?:reat 
44(1 


classes  of  diseases  called  putrid  and 
intermittent  fevers.  In  case  of  putrid 
fever  no  other  food  should  be  allow- 
ed, during  the  first  weeks  of  reco- 
very, than  the  mildest  vegetable  sub- 
stances.     When     recovering    from 
agues  and  intermittent  fevers,  ani- 
mal jellies,  and  plain  animal  food, 
with  as  little  vegetable  as  possible, 
is  the  proper  diet.     Meat  and  meat 
broth,  generally  speaking,  are  not  so 
well   adapted    for  the   re-establish- 
ment of  health  and  strength,  as  more 
simple  diets.     Flesh  being  the  food 
most  used  by  old  and  young  at  all 
other    times,    is   consequently  that 
from  which  their  distempers  chiefly 
proceed,    or    at   least   it    nourishes 
those  disorders  which  other  causes 
may  have  contributed  to  introduce. 
It  is  of  a  gross,  phlegmatic  nature 
and  oily  quality,  and  therefore  harder 
of  digestion  than  many  other  sorts  of 
food,  tending  to  generate  gross  hu- 
mours and  thick  blood,  which  are 
very  unfavourable  to  the  recovery  of 
health.     The  yolk  of  an  egg  lightly 
boiled  or  beaten  up  raw  with  a  little 
wine  may  be  taken,  when  animal  food 
is  not  forbidden,  and  the  party  can- 
not chew  or  swallow  more  solid  food. 
The  spoonmeats  and  drinks  directed 
for  children,   and   simple  puddings 
made  as  for  them,  may  all  be  used 
for  invalids,  subject  only  to  the  re- 
strictions imposed  by  their  medical 
attendant.     Puddings  and  panadoes 
made  of  bread  are  better  for  weak 
stomachs  than  those  made  of  flour. 
— Diet  drinks  may  be  made  of  an 
infusion  of  herbs,  grains,  or  seeds. 
For  this  purpose  the  herbs  should 
be  gathered  in  their  proper  season, 
then  dried  in  the  shade,  and  put  into 
close  paper  bags.    When  wanted  for 
use,  take  out   the  proper  quantity, 
put  it  into  a  linen  bag,  suspend  it  in 
the  beer  or  ale,  while  it  is  ferment- 
ing, from  two  to  six  or  «ight  hours, 
and  then  take  it  out.     Wormwood 
ought  not  to  be  infused    so  long  ; 
three  or  four  hours  will  be  sufEcient, 
or  it  will  become  nauseous,  and  soon 


TRE 


TRE 


tiirn  to  putrefaction.  The  same  is 
to  be  understood  in  infusing  any  sort 
of  well-prepared  herbs,  and  great 
care  is  required  in  all  preparations 
of  this  kind  that  the  pure  properties 
are  neither  evaporated,  nor  over- . 
powered  by  the  bad  ones.  Beer, 
ale,  or  any  other  liquor  in  which 
herbs  are  infused,  must  be  unadul- 
terated, or  the  benefit  of  these  in- 
fusions will  be  destroyed  by  its  per- 
nicious qualities.  Nothing  is  more 
prejudicial  to  health  than  adulterated 
liquors,  or  liquors  that  are  debased 
by  any  corrupting  vegetable  sub- 
stance. Those  things  which  in  their 
purest  state  are  of  a  doubtful  cha- 
racter, and  never  to  be  trusted  with- 
out caution,  are  by  this  means  con- 
verted into  decided  poisons. — Herb 
Tea  of  any  kind  should  always  h^e 
made  with  a  moderate  proportion  of 
the  herb.  When  the  tea  is  of  a 
proper  strength,  the  herb  should 
be  taken  out,  or  it  will  become  nau- 
seous by  long  infusion.  These  kinds 
of  tea  are  best  used  quite  fresh. — 
Herb  Porridge  may  be  madie  of  elder 
buds,  nettle  tops,  clivers,  and  water 
cresses.  Mix  up  a  proper  quantity 
of  oatmeal  and  water,  and  set  it  on 
the  fire.  When  just  ready  to  boil, 
put  in  the  herbs,  cut  or  uncut ;  and 
when  ready  again  to  boil,  lade  it 
to  and  fro  to  prevent  its  boiling. 
Continue  this  operation  six  or  eight 
minutes,  then  take  it  off  the  fire, 
and  let  it  stand  awhile.  It  may 
either  be  eaten  with  the  herbs,  or 
strained,  and  should  not  be  eaten 
warmer  than  new  milk.  A  little 
butter,  salt,  and  bread,  may  be  add- 
ed. Another  way  is,  to  set  some 
oatmeal  and  water  on  a  quick  fire ; 
and  when  it  is  scalding  hot,  put  in 
a  good  quantity  of  spinage,  corn 
salad,  tops  of  pennyroyal,  and  mint 
cut  small.  Let  it  stand  on  the  fire 
till  ready  to  boil,  then  pour  it  up 
and  down  six  or  seven  minutes,  and 
let  it  stand  off  the  fire  that  the  oat- 
meal may  sink  to  the  bottom.  Strain 
it,  and  add  butter,  salt,  and  bread. 


When  it  is  about  milk-warm  it  will 
be  fit  to  eat.  This  is  an  excellent 
porridge,  pleasant  to  the  palate  and 
stomach,  cleansing  the  passages  by 
opening  obstructions.  It  also  breeds 
good  blood,  thus  enlivens  the  spi- 
rits, and  makes  the  whole  body 
active  and  easy. — A  Cooling  Drink 
may  be  made  of  two  ounces  of  whole 
barley,  washed  and  cleansed  in  hot 
water,  and  afterwards  boiled  in  five 
pints  of  water  till  the  barley  opens. 
Add  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cream 
of  tartar,  and  strain  off  the  liquor. 
Or  bruise  three  ounces  of  the  fresh- 
est sweet  almonds,  and  an  ounce  of 
gourd  melon  seeds  in  a  marble  mor- 
tar, adding  a  pint  of  water,  a  little 
at  a  time,  and  then  strain  it  through 
a  piece  of  linen.  Bruise  the  re- 
mainder of  the  almonds  and  seeds 
again,  with  another  pint  of  water 
added  as  before ;  then  strain  it, 
and  repeat  this  p^bcess  a  third  time. 
After  this,  pour  all  the  liquor  upon 
the  bruised  mass,  stir  it  well,  and 
finally  strain  it  off.  Half  an  ounce 
of  sugar  may  safely  be  bruised  with 
the  almonds  and  seeds  at  first ;  or 
if  it  be  thought  too  heating,  a  little 
orange -flower  water  may  be  used  in- 
stead.— Currant  Drink.  Put  a  pound 
of  the  best  red  currants,  fully  ripe 
and  clean  picked,  into  a  stone  bot- 
tle. Mix  three  spoonfuls  of  good 
new  yeast  with  six  pints  of  hot  wa- 
ter, and  pour  it  upon  the  currants. 
Stop  the  bottle  close  till  the  liquor 
ferments,  then  give  it  as  much  vent 
as  is  necessary,  keep  it  warm,  and 
let  it  ferment  for  about  three  days. 
Taste  it  in  the  mean  time  to  try 
whether  it  is  become  pleasant ;  and 
as  soon  as  it  is  so,  run  it  through  a 
strainer,  and  bottle  it  off.  It  will 
be  ready  to  drink  in  five  or  six  days. 
— Boniclapper  is  another  article 
suited  to  the  state  of  sickly  and 
weakly  persons.  Boniclapper  is 
milk  which  has  stood  till  it  has  ac- 
quired a  pleasant  sourish  taste,  and 
a  thick  slippery  substance.  In  very 
hot  weather  this  will  be  in  about 
3  M  449 


TRE 


TRE 


tweaty-four  hours  from  the  time  of 
its  beiog  milked,  but  longer  in  pro- 
portion as  the  weather  is  colder. 
If  put  into  vessels  which  have  been 
used  for  milk  to  be  soured  in,  it  will 
change  the  sooner.  New  milk  must 
always  be  used  for  this  purpose. 
Boniclapper  is  an  excellent  food  at 
all  times,  particularly  for  those  who 
are  troubled  with  any  kind  of  stop- 
pages ;  it  powerfully  opens  the^ 
l>reast  and  passages,  is  itself  easy 
of  digestion,  and  helps  to  digest  all 
hard  or  sweeter  foods.  It  also  cools 
and  cleanses  the  whole  body,  ren- 
ders it  brisk  and  lively,  and  is  very 
efticacious  in  quenching  thirst.  No 
other  sort  of  milkmeat  or  spoonmeat 
is  so  proper  and  beneficial  for  con- 
sumptive persons,  or  such  as  labour 
under  great  weakness  and  debility. 
It  should  be  eaten  with  bread  only, 
and  it  will  be  light  and  easy  on  the 
stomach,  even  witen  new  milk  is 
found  to  disagree.  If  this  soured 
milk  should  become  unpleasant  at 
first,  a  little  custom  and  use  will 
not  only  render  it  familiar,  but  agree- 
able to  the  stomach  and  palate  ;  and 
those  who  have  neither  wisdom  nor 
patience  to  submit  to  a  transient 
inconvenience,  will  never  have  an 
opportunity  of  knowing  the  intrinsic 
value  of  any  thing.  To  these  may 
be  added  a  variety  of  other  articles 
adapted  to  a  state  of  sickness  and 
disease,  which  will  be  found  under 
their  respective  heads  ;  such  as  Beef 
Tea,  Flummery,  Jellies  of  various 
kinds.  Lemon  Whey,  Vinegar  Whey, 
Cream  of  Tartar  Whey,  Mustard 
Whey,  Treacle  Posset,  Buttermilk, 
Onion  Porridge,  Water  Gruel,  and 
Wormwood  Ale. 

TREES.  Several  different  me- 
thods have  been  proposed  of  pre- 
venting the  bark  being  eaten  off  by 
hares  and  rabbits  in  the  winter  sea- 
son ;  such  as  twisting  straw -ropes 
round  the  trees  ;  driving  in  small  flat 
stakes  all  about  them  ;  and  the  use 
of  strong-scented  oils.  But  better 
and  neater  modes  have  latelv  been 
450 


suggested  ;  as  with  hog's  lard,  and 
as  much  whale-oil  as  w  ill  work  it  up 
into  a  thin  paste  or  paint,  with  w  hich 
the  stems  of  the  trees  are  to  be  gently 
rubbed  upwards,  at  the  time  of  the 
fall  of  the  leaf.  It  may  be  done  once 
in  two  years,  and  will,  it  is  said,  ef- 
fectually prevent  such  animals  from 
touching  them.  Another  and  still 
neater  method,  is  to  take  three  pints 
of  melted  tallow  to  one  pint  of  tar, 
mixing  them  well  together  over  a 
gentle  fire.  Then,  in  the  month  of 
November,  to  take  a  small  brush  and 
go  over  the  rind  or  bark  of  the  trees 
with  the  composition  in  a  milk-warm 
state,  as  thin  as  it  can  be  laid  on 
with  the  brush.  It  is  found  that 
such  a  coating  does  not  hinder  the 
juices  or  sap  from  expanding  in  the 
smallest  degree;  and  the  efficacy  of 
the  plan  is  proved,  in  preventing  the 
attacks  of  the  animals,  by  applying 
the  liquid  composition  to  one  tree 
and  missing  another,  when  it  was 
found  that  the  former  was  left,  while 
the  latter  was  attacked.  Its  efficacy 
has  been  shewn  by  the  experience 
of  five  ^ear^r.  The  trees  that  were 
gone  over  the  first  two  years  have 
not  been  touched  since  ;  and  none 
of  them  have  been  injured  by  the 
hares. — The  Mossing  of  trees  is 
their  becoming  much  affected  and 
covered  with  the  moss-plant  or  mossy 
substance.  It  is  found  to  prevail  in 
fruit-grounds  of  the  apple  kind,  and 
in  other  situations,  when  they  are  in 
low,  close,  confined  places,  where 
the  damp  or  moisture  of  the  trees  is 
not  readily  removed.  It  is  thought  to 
be  an  indication  of  weakness  in  the 
growth,  or  of  a  diseased  state  of  the 
trees,  and  to  require  nice  attention 
in  preventing  or  eradicating  it.  The 
modes  of  removing  it  have  usually 
been  those  of  scraping,  rubbing,  and 
washing,  but  they  are  obviously  cal- 
culated for  trees  only  on  a  small 
scale.  How  far  the  use  of  powdery 
matters,  such  as  lime,  chalk,  and 
others,  which  are  capable  of  readily 
absorbing  and  taking  up  the  wetness 


TRE 


TRE 


that  may  hang  about  the  branches, 
and  other  parts  of  the  trees,  by  being 
well  dusted  over  them,  may  be  bene- 
ficial, is  not  known,  but  they  would 
seem  to  promise  success  by  the  ta- 
king away  the  nourishment  and  sup- 
port of  the  moss,  when  employed  at 
proper  seasons.  And  they  are  known 
to  answer  in  destroying  moss  in  some 
other  cases,  when  laid  about  the 
stems  of  the  plants,  as  in  thorn- 
hedges,  &c.  The  mossing  in  all 
sorts  of  trees  is  injurious  to  their 
growth  by  depriving  them  of  a  por- 
tion of  their  nourishment,  but  more 
particularly  hurtful  to  those  of  the 
fruit-tree  kind,  as  preventing  them 
from  bearing  full  good  crops  of  fruit 
by  rendering  them  in   a  weak  and 

unhealthy    state. The    following 

are  substances  destructive  of  insects 
infesting  fruit  shrubs  and  trees  in 
gardening,  or  of  preventing  their 
injurious  ravages  and  effects  on 
trees.  Many  different  kinds  of  sub- 
stances have  been  recommended  for 
the  purpose,  at  different  times  ;  but 
nothing  perhaps  has  yet  been  found 
fully  effectual  in  this  intention,  in 
all  cases.  The  substances  and  modes 
directed  below  have  lately  been  ad- 
vised as  useful  in  this  way.  As  pre- 
ventives against  gooseberry  cater- 
pillars, which  so  greatly  infest  and 
injure  shrubs  of  that  kind,  the  sub- 
stances mentioned  below  have  been 
found  very  simple  and  efficacious. 
In  the  autumnal  season,  let  a  quan- 
tity of  cow-urine  be  provided,  and 
let  a  little  be  poured  around  the 
stem  of  each  bush  or  shrub,  just  as 
much  as  merely  suffices  to  moisten 
the  ground  about  them.  This  simple 
expedient  is  stated  to  have  succeed- 
ed in  an  admirable  manner,  and  that 
its  preventire  virtues  have  appeared 
to  extend  to  two  successive  seasons 
or  years.  The  bushes  which  were 
treated  in  this  manner  remained  free 
from  caterpillars,  while  those  which 
were  neglected,  or  intentionally  pass- 
ed by,  in  the  same  compartment, 
were  wholly  destroyed   by  the  de- 


predations of  the  insects.  Another 
mode  of  prevention  is  proposed, 
which,  it  is  said,  is  equally  simple  and 
effectual ;  but  the  good  effects  of  which 
only  extend  to  the  season  immedi- 
ately succeeding  to  that  of  the  ap- 
plication. This  is,  in  situations  near 
the  sea,  to  collect  as  much  drift  or 
sea-weed  from  the  beach,  when  oc- 
casion serves,  as  will  be  sufficient  to 
cover  the  whole  of  the  gooseberry 
compartment  to  the  depth  of  four  or 
five  inches.  It  should  be  laid  on  in 
the  autumn,  and  the  whole  covering 
remain  untouched  during  the  winter 
and  early  spring  months ;  but  as  the 
fruiting  season  advances,  be  dug  in. 
This  method,  it  is  said,  has  answered 
the  most  sanguine  expectations  ;  no 
caterpillars  ever  infesting  the  com- 
partments which  are  treated  in  this 
manner.  Another  method,  which  is 
said  to  have  been  found  successful, 
in  preventing  or  destroying  caterpil- 
lars on  the  above  sort  of  fruit  shrubs, 
is  this  :  as  the  black  currant  and 
elder  bushes,  growing  quite  close  to 
those  of  the  gooseberry  kind,  were 
not  attacked  by  this  sort  of  vermin, 
it  was  conceived  that  an  infusion  of 
their  leaves  might  be  serviceable,  es- 
pecially when  prepared  with  a  little 
quick-lime,  in  the  manner  directed 
below.  Six  pounds  each  of  the  two 
first  sorts  of  leaves  are  to  be  boiled 
in  twelve  gallons  of  soft  water  ;  then 
fourteen  pounds  of  hot  lime  are  to 
be  put  into  twelve  gallons  of  water, 
and,  after  being  well  incorporated 
with  it,  they  are  both  to  be  mixed 
well  together.  With  this  mixture 
the  infested  gooseberry  bushes  by 
fruit  trees  are  to  be  well  washed  or 
the  hand  garden-engine ;  after  which 
a  little  hot  lime  is  to  be  taken  and 
laid  about  the  root  of  each  bush  or 
tree  so  washed,  which  completes  the 
work.  Thus  the  caterpillars  will  be 
completely  destroyed,  without  hurt- 
ing the  foliage  of  the  bushes  or  trees 
in  any  way.  A  dull  day  is  to  be 
preferred  for  performing  the  work  of 
washing,  Szc.  As  soon  as  all  the 
451 


r  K  E 


TRE 


foliage  is  dropped  otf  from  the  bushes 
or  trees,  they  are  to  be  again  washed 
over  with  the  hand-engine,  in  order 
to  clean  them  of  all  decayed  leaves, 
and  other  matters  ;  for  which  pur- 
pose any  sort  of  water  will  answer. 
The  surface  of  the  earth,  all  about 
the  roots  of  the  bushes  and  trees,  is 
then  to  be  well  stirred,  and  a  lit- 
tle hot  lime  again  laid  about  them, 
to  destroy  the  ova  or  eggs  of  the 
insects.  This  mode  of  management 
has  never  failed  of  success,  in  the 
course  of  six  years'  practice.  It  is 
noticed,  that  the  above  quantity  of 
prepared  liquid  will  be  sufficient  for 
about  two  acres  of  ground  in  this 
sort  of  plantation,  and  cost  but  little 
in  providing.  The  use  of  about  a 
gallon  of  a  mixture  of  equal  propor- 
tions of  lime-water,  chamber-ley,  and 
soap-suds,  with  as  much  soot  as  will 
give  it  the  colour  and  consistence  of 
dunghill  drainings,  to  each  bush  in 
the  rows,  applied  by  means  of  the 
rose  of  a  watering-pot,  immediately 
as  the  ground  between  them  is  dug 
over,  and  left  as  rough  as  possible, 
the  whole  being  gone  over  in  this 
way  without  treading  or  poaching 
the  land,  has  also  been  found  highly 
successful  by  others.  The  whole  is 
then  left  in  the  above  state  until  the 
winter  frosts  are  fairly  past,  when 
thie  ground  between  the  rows  and 
bushes  are  levelled,  and  raked  over 
in  an  even  manner.  By  this  means 
of  practice,  the  bushes  have  beeni 
constantly  kept  healthy,  fruitful,  and 
free  from  the  annoyance  of  insects. 
The  bushes  are  to  be  first  pruned, 
and  dung  used  where  necessary.  A 
solution  of  soft  soap,  mixed  with  an 
infusion  of  tobacco,  has  likewise  been 
applied  with  great  use  in  destroying 
caterpillars,  by  squirting  it  by  the 
hand-syringe  upon  the  bushes,  while 
a  little  warm,  twice  in  the  day.  But 
some  think  that  the  only  safety  is  in 
picking  them  off  the  bushes,  as  they 
first  appear,  together  with  the  lower 
leaves  which  are  eaten  into  holes: 
also,  the  paring,  digging  over,  and 
452 


clearing  the  foul  ground  between 
the  bushes,  and  treading  and  forcing 
such  foul  surface  parts  into  the  bot- 
toms of  the  trenches!  Watering 
cherry-trees  with  water  prepared 
from  quick-lime  new  burnt,  and 
common  soda  used  in  washing,  in 
the  proportion  of  a  peck  of  the  for- 
mer and  half  a  pound  of  the  latter  to 
a  hogshead  of  water,  has  been  found 
successful  in  destroying  the  green 
fly  and  the  black  vermin  which  infest 
such  trees.  The  water  should  stand 
upon  the  lime  for  twenty-four  hours, 
and  be  then  drawn  off  by  a  cock 
placed  in  the  cask,  ten  or  twelve 
inches  from  the  bottom,  when  the 
soda  is  to  be  put  to  it,  being  careful 
not  to  exceed  the  above  proportion, 
as,  from  its  acridity,  it  would  other- 
M'ise  be  liable  to  destroy  the  foliage. 
Two  or  three  times  watering  with 
this  liquor,  by  means  of  a  garden 
engine,  will  destroy  and  remove  the 
vermin.  The  application  of  clay- 
paint,  too,  has  been  found  of  great 
utility  in  destroying  the  different  in- 
sects, such  as  the  coccus,  thrips, 
and  fly,  which  infest  peach,  necta- 
rine, and  other  fine  fruit  trees,  on 
walls,  and  in  hot-houses.  This  paint 
is  prepared  by  taking  a  quantity  of 
the  most  tenacious  brown  clay,  and 
diffusing  it  in  as  much  soft  water  as 
will  bring  it  to  the  consistence  of  a 
thick  cream  or  paint,  passing  it 
through  a  fine  sieve  or  hair-searce, 
so  as  that  it  may  be  rendered  per- 
fectly smooth,  unctuous,  and  free 
from  gritty  particles.  As  soon  as 
the  trees  are  pruned  and  nailed  in,  , 
they  are  all  to  be  carefully  gone  over  ] 
with  a  painter's  brush  dipped  in  the 
above  paint,  especially  the  stems 
and  large  branches,  as  well  as  the 
young  shoots,  which  leaves  a  coat  or 
layer,  that,  when  it  becomes  dry, 
forms  a  hard  crust  over  the  whole 
tree,  which,  by  closely  enveloping 
the  insects,  completely  destroys 
them,  without  doing  any  injury  to 
either  the  bark  or  buds.  And  by 
covering  the  trees  with  mats  or  can- 


TRE 


TRO 


vas  in  wet  seasons,  it  may  be  pre- 
served on  them  as  long  as  necessary. 
Where  one  dressing  is  not  effectual, 
it  may  be  repeated  ;  and  the  second 
coating  will  mostly  be  sufficient. 
Where  peach  and  nectarine  trees  are 
managed  with  this  paint,  they  are 
very  rarely  either  hide-bound  or  at- 
tacked by  insects.  This  sort  of 
paint  is  also  useful  in  removing  the 
mildew,  with  which  these  kinds  of 
trees  are  often  affected  ;  as  well  as, 
with  the  .use  of  the  dew-syringe,  in 
promoting  the  equal  breaking  of  the 
eyes  of  vines,  trained  on  the  rafters 
of  pine  stoves.  Watering  the  peach 
tree  borders  with  the  urine  of  cattle, 
in  the  beginning  of  winter,  and  again 
in  the  early  spring,  has  likewise  been 
thought  beneficial  in  destroying  the 
insects  which  produce  the  above  dis- 
I  ease.  Careful  and  proper  cleaning 
f  and  washing  these  trees,  walls,  and 
other  places  in  contact  with  them, 
has,  too,  been  found  of  great  utility 
in  preventing  insects  from  accumu- 
lating on  them. 

TRIFLE.  To  make  an  excellent 
trifle,  lay  macaroons  and  ratifia 
drops  over  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  and 
pour  in  as  much  raisin  wine  as  they 
will  imbibe.  Then  pour  on  them  a 
cold  rich  custard,  made  with  plenty 
of  eggs,  and  some  rice  flour.  It 
!t  must  stand  two  or  three  inches  thick : 
f  "•on  that  put  a  layer  of  raspberry 
jam,  and  cover  the  whole  with  a  very 
high  whip  made  the  day  before,  of 
rich  cream,  the  whites  of  two  well- 
beaten  eggs,  sugar,  lemon  peel,  and 
raisin  wine,  well  beat  with  a  whisk, 
kept  only  to  whip  syllabubs  and 
creams.  If  made  the  day  before  it 
is  used,  the  trifle  has  quite  a  dif- 
ferent taste,  and  is  solid  and  far 
better. 

TRIPE.  After  being  well  washed 
and  cleaned,  tripe  should  be  stewed 
with  milk  and  onion  till  quite  tender. 
Serve  it  in  a  tureen,  with  melted 
butter  for  sauce.  Or  fry  it  in  small 
pieces,  dipped  in  batter.  Or  cut 
the  thin  part   into   bits,  and  stew 


them  in  gravy.  Thicken  the  stew 
with  butter  and  flour,  and  add  a  lit- 
tle ketchup.  Tripe  may  also  be  fri- 
casseed with  white  sauce. 

TROUGHS.  Water  troughs  of 
various  kinds,  which  require  to  be 
rendered  impervious  to  the  wet,  may 
be  lined  with  a  strong  cement  of 
gypsum  and  quicklime,  mixed  up 
with  water.  Four  fifths  of  pulverised 
coal  or  charcoal,  and  one  fifth  of 
quicklime,  well  mixed  together,  and 
infused  in  boiling  pitch  or  tar,  will 
also  form  a  useful  cement  for  this 
purpose.  It  requires  to  be  of  the 
consistence  of  thin  mortar,  and  ap- 
plied hot  with  a  trowel. 

TROUT.  Open  them  along  the 
belly,  wash  them  clean,  dry  them  in 
a  cloth,  and  season  them  with  pep- 
per and  salt.  Set  the  gridiron  over 
the  fire,  and  when  it  is  hot  rub  the 
bars  with  a  piece  of  fresh  suet.  Lay 
on  the  fish,  and  broil  them  gently 
over  a  very  clear  fire,  at  such  a  dis- 
tance as  not  to  burn  them.  When 
they  are  done  on  one  side,  turn  them 
carefully  on  the  other,  and  serve 
them  up  the  moment  they  are  ready. 
This  is  one  of  the  best  methods  of 
dressing  this  delicate  fish  ;  but  they 
are  sometimes  broiled  whole,  in  or- 
der to  preserve  the  juices  of  the  fish, 
when  they  are  fresh  caught.  Ano- 
ther way  is,  after  they  are  washed 
clean  and  well  dried  in  a  napkin,  to 
bind  them  about  with  packthread, 
and  sprinkle  them  with  melted  but- 
ter and  salt ;  then  to  broil  them  over 
a  gentle  fire,  and  keep  them  turning. 
Make  a  sauce  of  butter  rolled  in 
ilour,  with  an  anchovy,  some  pep- 
per, nutmeg,  and  capers.  Add  a 
very  little  vinegar  and  water,  and 
shake  it  together  over  a  moderate 
fire,  till  it  is  of  a  proper  thickness. 
Put  the  trout  into  a  dish,  and  pour 
this  sauce  over  them.  Trout  of  a 
middle  size  arc  best  for  broiling. 
The  gurnet  or  piper  is  very  nice 
broiled  in  the  same  manner,  and 
served  with  the  same  kind  of  sauce. 
Mullets  also  admit  of  the  same 
453 


TRO 


TR  O 


treatment.  Trout  are  very  com- 
monly stewed,  as  well  as  broiled ; 
and  in  this  case  they  should  be  put 
into  a  stewpan  with  equal  quantities 
of  Champaigne,  Rhenish,  or  Sherry 
w  ine.  Season  the  stew  with  pepper 
and  salt,  an  onion,  a  few  cloves,  and 
a  small  bunch  of  parsley  and  thyme. 
Put  into  it  a  crust  of  French  bread, 
and  set  it  on  a  quick  fire.  When 
the  fish  is  done,  take  out  the  bread, 
bruise  it,  and  then  thicken  the  sauce. 
Add  a  little  flour  and  butter,  and  let 
it  boil  up.  Lay  the  trout  on  a  dish, 
and  pour  the  thickened  sauce  over 
it.  Serve  it  with  sliced  lemon,  and 
fried  bread.  This  is  called  Trout  a 
la  Genevoise.  A  plainer  way  is  to 
dry  the  fish,  after  it  has  been  wash- 
ed and  cleaned,  and  lay  it  on  a  board 
before  the  fire,  dusted  with  flour. 
Then  fry  it  of  a  fine  colour  with 
fresh  dripping  ;  serve  it  with  crimp 
parsley  and  plain  butter. 

TROUT  PIE.  Scale  and  wash 
the  fish,  lard  them  with  pieces  of 
silver  eel,  rolled  up  in  spice  and 
sweet  herbs,  with  bay  leaves  finely 
powdered.  Slice  the  bottoms  of 
artichokes,  lay  them  on  or  between 
the  fish,  with  mushrooms,  oysters, 
capers,  and  sliced  lemon  or  Seville 
orange.  Use  a  dish  or  raised  crust, 
close  the  pie,  and  bake  it  gently. — 
Another  way.  Clean  and  scale  your 
trouts,  and  cut  off  the  heads  and 
fins  ;  boil  an  eel  for  forcemeat; 
when  you  have  cut  oflf  the  meat  of 
the  eel,  put  the  bones  and  the  heads 
of  the  trout  into  the  water  it  was 
boiled  in,  with  an  onion,  mace,  whole 
pepper,  a  little  salt,  and  a  faggot  of 
sweet  herbs  ;  let  it  boil  down  till 
there  is  but  enough  for  the  pie. 
Chop  the  meat  of  the  eel  very  fine, 
add  grated  bread,  an  anchovy  chop- 
ped small,  sweet  herbs,  and  a  gill 
of  oysters  blanched  and  bearded, 
the  yolks  of  two  hard  eggs  chopped 
very  fine,  and  as  much  melted  but- 
ter as  will  make  it  into  a  stiff  force- 
meat;  season  the  trout  with  mace, 
pepper  and  salt ;  fill  the  belly  with 
454 


the  forcemeat,  and  make  the  re- 
mainder into  balls  ;  sheet  your  dish 
with  a  good  paste,  lay  some  butter 
on  that,  then  the  trout  and  force- 
meat ;  strain  ofl'  the  fish  broth,  and 
scum  it  very  clean,  and  add  a  little 
white  wine,  and  a  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour;  when  it  is  all  melt- 
ed, pour  it  into  the  pie,  and  lid  it 
over ;  bake  it  in  a  gentle  oven,  and 
let  it  be  thoroughly  done. 

TRUFFLES.  The  largest  are  the 
most  esteemed  ;  those  which  are 
brought  from  Perigord  are  the  best. 
They  are  usually  eaten  dressed  in 
wine,  and  broth  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
some  roots  and  onions.  Before  be- 
ing dressed  they  must  be  soaked  in 
warm  water,  and  well  rubbed  with 
a  brush,  that  no  earth  may  adhere 
to  them.  When  dressed,  serve  them 
in  a  plate  as  an  entremet.  The 
truflSe  is  also  very  excellent  in  all 
sorts  of  ragouts,  either  chopped  or 
out  into  slices,  after  they  are  peeled. 
It  is  one  of  the  best  seasonings  that 
can  be  used  in  a  kitchen.  Trufiles 
are  also  used  dried,  but  their  flavour 
is  then  much  diminished. 

TRUFFLES  RAGOUT.  Peel  the 
trufl[les',  cut  them  in  slices,  wash  and 
drain  them  well.  Put  them  into  a 
saucepan  with  a  little  gravy,  and 
stew  them  gently  over  a  slow  fire. 
When  they  are  almost  done  enough, 
thicken  them  with  a  little  butter  and 
flour.  Stewed  in  a  little  water,  and 
thickened  with  cream  and  yolk  of 
egg,  they  make  a  nice  white  ragout. 
Trufiles,  mushrooms,  and  morels  are 
all  of  them  very  indigestible.  ,. 

TUNBRIDGE  CAKES.  Rub  six 
ounces  of  butter  quite  fine  into  a 
pound  of  flour  ;  then  mix  six  ounces 
of  sugar,  beat  and  strain  two  eggs, 
and  make  the  whole  into  a  paste. 
Roll  it  very  thin,  and  cut  it  with  the 
top  of  a  glass.  Prick  the  cakes  with 
a  fork,  and  cover  them  with  carra- 
ways  ;  or  wash  them  with  the  white 
of  an  e^gy  and  dust  a  little  white 
sugar  over. 


TUR 


TUR 


TURBOT.  This  excellent  fish  is 
in  season  the  greatest  part  of  the 
summet-.  When  fresh  and  good,  it 
is  at  once  firm  and  tender,  and 
abounds  with  rich  gelatinous  nutri- 
ment. Being  drawn  and  washed 
clean,  it  may  be  lightly  rubbed  with 
salt,  and  put  in  a  cold  place,  and  it 
will  keep  two  or  three  days.  An 
hour  or  two  before  dressing  it,  let 
it  soak  in  spring  water  with  some 
salt  in  it.  To  prevent  the  fish  from 
swelling  and  cracking  on  the  breast, 
score  the  skin  across  the  thickest 
part  of  the  back.  Put  a  large  hand- 
ful of  salt  into  a  fish  kettle  with  cold 
water,  lay  the  turbot  on  a  fish  strain- 
er and  put  it  in.  When  it  is  begin- 
ning to  boil,  skmi  it  well ;  then  set 
the  kettle  on  the  side  of  the  fire  to 
boil  as  gently  as  possible  for  about 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  ;  if  it  boil 
fast,  the  fish  will  break  to  pieces. 
Rub  a  little  of  the  inside  coral  spawn 
of  the  lobster  through  a  hair  sieve, 
without  butter ;  and  when  the  tur- 
bot is  dished,  sprinkle  the  spawn 
over  it.  Garnish  the  dish  with  sprigs 
of  curled  parsley,  sliced  lemon,  and 
finely  scraped  horseradish.  Send 
up  plenty  of  lobster  sauce.  The 
thickest  part  of  the  fish  is  generally 
preferred.  The  spine  bone  should 
be  cut  across  to  make  it  easier  for 

'm      carving. 

F  TURBOT  PIE.  Take  a  middling 
turbot,  clean  it  very  well,  cut  oflf  the 
head,  tail,  and  fins.  Make  a  force- 
meat thus  ;  take  a  large  eel,  boil  it 
tender,  then  take  off  the  flesh  ;  put 
the  bones  of  the  turbot  and  eel  into 
the  water  the  eel  was  boiled  in,  with 
a  faggot  of  herbs,  whole  pepper,  an 
onion,  and  an  anchovy  ;  let  this  boil 
till  it  becomes  a  strong  broth.  In 
the  mean  time,  cut  the  eel  very  fine ; 
add  the  same  quantity  of  grated 
bread,  a  little  lemon-peel,  an  an- 
chovy, parsley,  and  the  yolks  of 
two  or  three  hard  eggs,  and  half  a 
pint  of  oysters  blanched  and  beard- 
ed ;  chop  alL  these  as  fine  as  pos- 
sible ;  mix  all  together  with  a  quarter 


of  a  pound  of  melted  butter ;  and 
with  this  forcemeat  lay  a  rim  in  the 
inside  of  the  dish  ;  put  in  the  tur- 
bot, and  fill  up  the  vacancies  with 
forcemeat  ;  strain  off"  the  broth, 
scum  it  very  clean,  and  add  a  lump 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  a  glass 
of  white  wine  ;  pour  this  over  the 
fish.  Make  a  good  puff"  paste,  cover 
the  pie  with  it,  and  let  it  be  tho- 
roughly baked.  When  it  comes  from 
the  oven,  warm  the  remainder  of  the 
liquor ;  pour  it  in,  and  send  it  to 
table. 

TURKEYS.  When  young  they 
are  very  tender,  and  require  great 
attention.  As  soon  as  hatched,  put 
three  peppercorns  down  their  throat. 
They  must  be  carefully  watched,  or 
they  will  soon  perish.  The  hen 
turkey  is  so  careless,  that  she  will 
stalk  about  with  one  chicken,  and 
leave  the  remainder,  or  even  tread  -z 
upon  and  kill  them.  Turkeys  are 
violent  eaters,  and  must  therefore 
be  left  to  take  charge  of  themselves 
in  general,  except  one  good  feed  a 
day.  The  hen  se!s  twenty-five  or 
thirty  days,  and  the  young  ones  must 
be  kept  warm,  as  the  least  cold  or 
damp  kills  them.  They  must  be  fed 
often,  and  at  a  distance  from  the 
hen,  or  she  will  pick  every  thing 
from  them.  They  should  have  curds, 
green  cheese  parings  cut  small,  and 
bread  and  milk  with  chopped  worm- 
wood in  it.  Their  drink  milk  and 
water,  but  must  not  be  left  to  turn 
sour.  All  young  fowls  are  a  prey 
for  vermin,  therefore  they  should  be 
kept  in  a  safe  place  where  none  can 
come.  Weasels,  stoats,  and  ferrets 
will  creep  in  at  a  very  small  crevice. 
The  hen«hould  be  under  a  coop,  in 
a  warm  place  exposed  to  the  sun, 
for  the  first  three  or  four  weeks  ;  and 
the  young  ones  should  not  be  suf- 
fered to  wander  about  in  the  dew, 
at  morning  or  evening.  Twelve  eggs 
are  enough  to  put  under  a  turkey  ; 
and  when  she  is  about  to  lay,  lock 
her  up  till  she  has  laid  every  morn- 
ing. They  usually  begin  to  lay  in 
455 


TUR 


TUR 


March,  and  set  in  April.  Feed  them 
near  the  hen-house,  and  give  them  a 
little  meat  in  the  evening,  to  accus- 
tom them  to  roosting  there.  Fatten 
them  with  sodden  oats  or  barley  for 
the  first  fortnight;  and  the  last  fort- 
night give  them  as  above,  and  rice 
swelled  with  warm  milk  over  the  fire 
twice  a  day.  The  flesh  will  be  beau- 
tifully white  and  fine  flavoured.  The 
common  way  in  Norfolk  is  to  cram 
them,  but  they  are  so  ravenous  that 
it  seems  unnecessary,  if  they  are  not 
sufTertd  to  wander  far  from  home, 
which  keeps  them  lean  and  poor. — 
When  fat  turkeys  are  to  be  purchased 
in  the  market,  in  order  to  judge  of 
their  quality  it  is  necessary  to  ob- 
serve, that  the  cock  bird  when  young 
has  a  smooth  black  leg,  and  a  short 
sj)ur.  If  fresh  and  sweet,  the  eyes 
are  full  and  bright,  and  the  feet 
moist  and  supple.  If  stale,  the  eyes 
will  be  sunk,  and  the  feet  stiflf  and 
dry.  The  hen  turkey  is  known  by 
the  same  rules ;  but  if  old,  the  legs 
will  be  red  and  rough. 

TURKEY  PATTIES.  Mince 
some  of  the  white  part,  and  season 
it  with  grated  lemon,  nutmeg,  salt, 
a  dust  of  white  pepper,  a  spoonful  of 
cream,  and  a  very  small  piece  of 
butter  warmed.  Fill  the  patties, 
and  bake  them. 

TURKEY  PIE.  Break  the  bones, 
and  beat  the  turkey  flat  on  the  breast. 
Lard  it  with  bacon,  lay  it  into  a 
raised  crust  with  some  slices  of  bacon 
under  it,  and  well  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper,  nutmeg,  whole  cloves,  and 
bay  leaves.  Lay  a  slice  of  bacon 
over  it,  cover  it  with  a  crust,  and 
bake  it.  When  baked,  put  a  clove 
of  garlic  or  shalot  into  the  whole  in 
the  middle  of  the  crust,  and  let  it 
stand  till  cold.  The  turkey  may  be 
boned  if  preferred.  Duck  or  goose 
pie  may  be  made  in  the  same  man- 
ner. 

TURKEY  SAUCE.     Open  some 

oysters  into  a  bason,  and  pour  the 

liquor  into  a  saucepan  as  soon  as  it 

is  settled.    Add  a  little  white  gravy, 

456 


and  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon  pickle. 
Thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  boil 
it  a  few  minutes,  add  a  spoonful  of 
cream,  and  then  the  oysters.  Shake 
them  over  the  fire,  but  do  riot  let 
them  boil.  Or  boil  some  slices  oi 
fine  bread  with  a  little  salt,  an  onion, 
and  a  few  peppercorns.  Beat  it 
well,  put  in  a  bit  of  butter,  and  a 
spoonful  of  cream.  This  sauce  eats 
well  with  roast  turkey  or  veal. 

TURKISH  YOURT.  Let  a  small 
quantity  of  milk  stand  till  it  be  sour, 
then  Dut  a  sufticient  quantity  of  it  to 
new  milk,  to  turn  it  to  a  soft  curd. 
This  may  be  eaten  with  sugar  only, 
or  both  this  and  the  fresh  cheese 
are  good  eaten  with  strawberries  and 
raspberries,  as  cream,  or  with  sweet- 
meats of  any  kind. 

TURNIPS.  To  dress  this  valua- 
ble root,  pare  off"  all  the  outside  coat, 
cut  them  in  two,  and  boil  them  with 
beef,  mutton,  or  lamb.  When  they 
become  tender  take  them  up,  press 
away  the  liquor,  and  mash  them 
with  butter  and  salt,  or  send  them 
to  table  whole,  with  melted  butter 
in  a  boat.  Young  turnips  look  and 
eat  well  with  a  little  of  the  top  left 
on  them.  To  preserve  turnips  for 
the  winter,  cut  oft' the  tops  and  tails, 
and  leave  the  roots  a  few  days  to 
dry.  They  should  then  be  stacked 
up  with  layers  of  straw  betvt'een,  so 
as  to  keep  them  from  the  rain  and 
frost,  and  let  the  stack  be  pointed 
at  the  top. 

TURNIPS  MASHED.  Pare  and 
boil  them  quite  tender,  squeeze  them 
as  dry  as  possible  between  two 
trenchers,  put  them  into  a  stewpan, 
and  mash  them  with  a  wooden  spoon. 
Then  rub  them  through  a  cullender, 
add  a  little  bit  of  butter,  keep  stir- 
ring them  till  the  butter  is  melted 
and  well  mixed  with  them,  and  they 
are  ready  for  the  table. 

TURNIP  BUTTER.  In  the  fall 
of  the  year,  butter  is  apt  to  acquire 
a  strong  and  disagreeable  flavour, 
from  the  cattle  feeding  on  turnips, 
cabbages,  leaves  of  trees,  and  other 


TUR 


TUR 


vegetable  substaijces.  To  correct 
the  offensive  taste  which  this  pro- 
duces, boil  two  ounces  of  saltpetre 
in  a  quart  of  water,  and  put  two  or 
more  spoonfuls  of  it  into  a  pail  be- 
fore milking,  according  to  the  quan- 
tity of  milk.  If  this  be  done  con- 
stantly, the  evil  will  be  eflectually 
cured  :  if  not,  it  will  be  owing  to 
the  neglect  of  the  dairy  maid. 

TURNIP  FLY.  To  prevent  the 
black  fly  from  injuring  the  turnip 
crop,  mix  an  ounce  of  sulphur  daily 
with  three  pounds  of  turnip  seed  for 
three  days  successively,  and  keep  it 
closely  covered  in  an  earthen  pan. 
Stir  it  well  each  time,  that  the  seed 
may  be  duly  impregnated  with  the 
sulphur.  Sow  it  as  usual  on  an  acre 
of  ground,  and  the  fly  will  not  at- 
tack it  till  after  the  third  or  fourth 
leaf  be  formed,  when  the  plant  will 
be  entirely  out  of  danger.  If  garden 
vegetables  be  attacked  by  the  fly, 
water  them  freely  with  a  decoction 
of  elder  leaves.  s 

TURNIP  PIE.  Season  some  mut- 
ton chops  with  salt  and  pepper,  re- 
serving the  ends  of  the  neck  bones 
to  lay  over  the  turnips,  which  must 
be  cut  into  small  dice,  and  put  on 
the  steaks.  Add  two  or  three  spoon- 
fuls of  milk,  also  a  sliced  onion  if 
approved,  and  cover  with  a  crust. 

TURNIP  SAUCE.  Pare  half  a 
dozen  turnips,  boil  them  in  a  little 
water,  keep  them  shaking  till  they 
are  done,  and  the  liquor  quite  ex- 
hausted, and  then  rub  them  through 
a  tammis.  Take  a  little  white  gravy 
and  cut  more  turnips,  as  if  intended 
for  harrico.  Shake  them  as  before, 
and  add  a  little  more  white  gravv. 

TURNIP  SOUP.  Take  from  a 
knuckle  of  veal  all  the  meat  that  can 
be  made  into  cutlets,  and  stew  the 
remainder  in  five  pints  of  water, 
with  an  onion,  a  bundle  of  herbs, 
and  a  blade  of  mace.  Cover  it 
close,  and  let  it  do  on  a  slow  fire, 
four  or  five  hours  at  least.  Strain 
it,  and  set  it  by  till  the  next  day. 
Then  take  the  fat  and  sediment  from 
(No.  20.) 


it,  and  simmer  it  with  turnips  cut 
into  small  dice  till  tender,  seasoning 
it  with  salt  and  pepper.  Before 
serving,  rub  down  half  a  spoonful  of 
flour  with  half  a  pint  of  good  cream, 
and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  Let  a  small  Toll  simmer  in 
the  soup  till  fully  moistened,  and 
serve  this  with  it.  The  soup  should 
be  as  thick  as  middling  cream. 

TURNIP  TOPS.  These  are  the 
shoots  which  come  out  in  the  spring 
from  the  old  turnip  roots,  and  are  to 
be  dressed  in  the  same  way  as  cab- 
bage sprouts.  They  make  very  nice 
sweet  greens,  and  are  esteemed  great 
purifiers  of  the  blood  and  juices. 

TURNPIKES.  Mix  together  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  eacb  of  flour, 
butter,  currants,  and  lump  sugar 
powdered.  Beat  up  four  eggs  with 
two  of  the  whites,  make  the  whole 
into  a  stiflf  paste,  with  the  addition  jfb 
of  a  little  lemon  peel.  Roll  the  paste  ^ 
out  thin,  and  cut  it  into  shapes  with 
a  wine  glass.  The  addition  of  a  few 
carraway  seeds  will  be  an  improve- 
ment. / 

TURTLE.  The  morning  that  you 
intend  to  dress  the  turtle,  fill  a  boiler 
or  kettle  with  a  quantity  of  water 
suflnicient  to  scald  the  callapach  and 
callapee,  the  fins,  &c.  and  about 
nine  o'clock  hang  up  your  turtle  by 
the  hind  fins,  cut  off^  its  head,  and 
save  the  blood  ;  then  with  a  sharp 
pointed  knife  separate  the  callapach 
from  the  callapee  (or  the  back  from 
the  belly  part)  down  to  the  shoul- 
ders, so  as  to  come  at  the  entrails, 
which  take  out,  and  clean  them,  as 
you  would  those  of  any  other  anima^' 
and  throw  them  into  a  tub  of  clean 
water,  taking  great  care  not  to  break 
the  gall,  but  cut  it  off  the  liver,  and 
throw  it  away.  Then  separate  eacb 
distinctly,  and  take  the  guts  into 
another  vessel,  open  them  with  a 
small  penknife,  from  end  to  end, 
wash  them  clean,  and  draw  them 
through  a  woollen  cloth  in  warm 
water,  to  clear  away  the  slime,  and 
then  put  them  into  clean  cold  water 

3  N  457 


Tun 


T  UR 


fiii  they  are  used,  with  the  other 
part  of  the  entraib,  whreh  miist  all 
be  cut  up  small  to  be  mixed  in  the 
baking  dishes  with  the  meat.  This 
done,  separate  the  back  and  belly 
pieces  entirely,  cutting  away  the  four 
fins  by  the  upper  joint,  which  scald, 
peel  off  the  loose  skin,  and  cut  them 
into  small  pieces,  laying  them  by 
themselves,  either  in  another  vesjel, 
or  on  the  table,  ready  to  be  season- 
ed. Then  cut  off  the  meat  from  the 
belly  part,  and  clean  the  back  from 
the  lungs,  kidneys,  cSrc.  and  that  meat 
cut  into  pieces  as  small  as  a  walnut, 
laying  it  likewise  by  itself.  After 
this  you  are  to  scald  the  back  and 
belly  pieces,  pulling  off  the  shell  from 
the  back  and  the  yellow  skin  from 
the  belly  ;  w  hen  all  will  be  white  and 
clean,  and  with  the  kitchen  cleaver 
cut  those  up  likewise  into  pieces  about 
the  bigness  or  breadth  of  a  card. 
Put  those  pieces  into  clean  cold  wa- 
ter, wash  them  out,  and  place  them 
in  a  heap  on  the  table,  so  that  each 
part  may  lie  by  itself.  The  meat, 
being  thus  prepared  and  laid  sepa- 
rately for  seasoning,  mix  two  third 
parts  of  salt,  or  rather  more,  and  one 
third  part  of  Cayenne  pepper,  black 
pepper,  and  a  spoonful  of  nutmeg 
and  liiace  pounded  fine,  and  mixed 
together ;  the  quantity  to  be  propor- 
tioned to  the  size  of  the  turtle,  so 
that  in  each  dish  there  may  be  about 
three  spoonfuls  of  seasoning  to  every 
twelve  pounds  of  meat.  Your  meat 
being  thus  seasoned,  get  some  sweet 
herbs,  such  as  thyme,  savoury,  S^c. 
^t  them  be  dried  and  rubbed  fine, 
and  having  provided  some  deep  dishes 
to  bake  it  in,  (which  should  be  of  the 
common  brown  ware)  put  in  the 
coarsest  parts  of  the  meat  at  the 
bottom,  with  about  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  >f  butter  in  each  dish,  and 
then  some  of  each  of  the  several  par- 
cels of  meat,  so  that  the  dishes  may 
be  all  alike,  and  have  equal  portions 
of  the  different  parts  of  the  turtle  ; 
and  between  each  laying  of  the  meat, 
strew  a  little  of  this  mixture  of  sweet 
4§^ 


liev]>s.  Fill  your  dishes  within  an 
inch  and  an  half,  or  two  inches  of 
the  top  ;  boil  the  blood  of  the  turtle, 
and  put  into  it ;  then  lay  on  force- 
meat balls  made  of  veal,  or  fowl, 
highly  seasoned  with  the  same  sea- 
soning as  the  turtle  ;  put  into  each 
dish  a  gill  of  good  Madeira  wine, 
and  as  much  water  as  it  will  conveni- 
ently hold  ;  then  break  over  it  five 
or  six  eggs,  to  keep  the  meat  from 
scorching  at  the  top,  and  over  that 
shake  a  small  handful  of  shred  pars- 
ley, to  make  it  look  green ;  which 
done,  put  your  dishes  into  an  oven 
made  hot  enough  to  bake  bread,  and 
in  an  hour  and  half,  or  two  hours, 
(according  to  the  size  of  the  dishes) 
it  will  be  sufficiently  done.  Send  it 
to  the  table  in  the  dishes  in  which 
it  is  baked,  in  order  to  keep  it  warm 
while  it  is  eating. 

TURTLE  FINS.  Put  into  a  stew- 
pan  five  large  spoonfuls  of  brown 
sauce,  with  a  bottle  of  port  wine,  and 
a  quart  of  mushrooms.  When  the 
sauce  lK)ils,  put  in  four  fins  ;  and 
after  taking  away  all  the  small  bones 
that  are  seen  breaking  through  the 
skin,  add  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  a 
bit  of  thyme,  one  bay  leaf,  and  four 
cloves,  and  let  it  simmer  one  hour. 
Ten  minutes  before  it  is  done,  put  in 
five  dozen  of  button  onions  ready 
peeled,  and  see  that  it  is  properly 

TURTLE  SOUP.  The  best  sized 
turtle  is  one  from  sixty  to  eighty 
pounds  weight,  which  will  make  six 
or  eight  tureens  of  fine  soup.  Kill 
the  turtle  the  evening  before  ;  tie  a 
cord  to  the  hind  fins,  and  hang  it  up 
with  the  head  downwards.  Tie  the 
fore  fins  by  way  of  pinioning  them, 
otherwise  it  would  beat  itself,  and 
be  troublesome  to  the  executioner. 
Hold  the  head  in  the  left  hand,  and 
with  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  the  neck 
as  near  the  head  as  possible.  Lay 
the  turtle  on  a  block  on  the  back 
shell,  slip  the  knife  between  the 
breast  and  the  edge  of  the  back  shell ; 
and  when  the  knife  has  been  round. 


TUR 


TUR 


find  the  breast  is  detached  from  the 
back,  pass  the  fingers  underneath, 
and  detach  the  breast  from  the  fins, 
always  keeping  the  edge  of  the  knife 
on  the  side  of  the  breast ;  otherwise 
if  the  gall  be  broken,  the  turtle  will 
be  spoiled.     Cut  the  breast  into  four 
pieces,   remove  the  entrails,  begin- 
ning by  the  liver,  and  cut  away  the 
gall,  to  be  out  of  danger  at  once. 
When  the  turtle  is  emptied,  throw 
the  heart,  liver,  kidneys,  and  lights, 
into  a  large  tub  of  water.    Cut  away 
the  fins  to  the  root,  as  near  to  the 
back  shell  as  possible ;  then  cut  the 
fins   in   the  second  joint,   that  the 
white  meat  may  be  separated  from 
the  green.     Scrape  the  fat  from  the 
back  shell  by  skimming  it,  and  put 
it  aside.     Cut  the  back   shell  into 
four  pieces.     Set  a  large  turbot  pan 
on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  dip  a 
fin  into  it  for  a  minute,  then  take  it 
oijt  and  peel  it  very  clean.     When 
that  is  done,  take  another,  and  so  on 
till  all  are  done  ;  then  the  head,  next 
the  shell  and  breast,  piece  by  piece. 
Be  careful  to  have  the  peel  and  shell 
entirely  cleaned  off",  then  put  in  the 
same   pan   some  clean   water,  with 
the  breast  and  back,  the  four  fins, 
and  the  head.     Let  it  boil  till  the 
bones  will  leave  the  meat,  adding  a 
large  bundle  of  turtle  herbs,  four  bay 
leaves,    and   some  thyme.      If  two 
dishes  are  to  be  made  of  the  fins, 
they   must   be  removed .  when  they 
have  boiled  one  hour.     Put  into  a 
small  stewpan  the  liver,  lights,  heart, 
and  kidneys,  and  the  fat  that  was 
laid  aside.     Take  some  of  the  liquor 
that  the  other  part  was  boiled  in, 
cover  the  stewpan  close,  and  let  it 
boil  gently  for  three  hours.     Clean 
the  bones,    breast,  and   back   from 
the  green  fat,  and  cut  it  into  pieces 
an  inch  long,  and  half  an  inch  wide, 
but  suffer  none  of  it  to  be  wasted. 
Put  all  these  pieces  on  a  dish,  and 
set  it  by  till  the  broth  is  ready.     To 
prepare  the  broth,  put  on   a  large 
stockpot,  and  line  the  bottom  of  it 
with  a  pound  and  a  half  of  lean  ham. 


cut  into  slices.     Cut  into  pieces  a 
large  leg  of  veal,  except  a  pound  of 
the  fillet  to  be  reserved  for  force- 
meat ;  put  the  rest  upon  the  ham, 
with  all  the  white  meat  of  the  turtle, 
and  a  couple  of  old  fowls.    Put  it  on 
a  smart  fire,  with  two  ladlefuls  of 
rich  broth,  and  reduce  it  to  a  glaze. 
When  it  begins  to  stick  to  the  bot- 
tom, pour  the  liquor  in  which  the 
turtle  was  boiled  into  the  pot  where 
the  other  part  of  the  turtle  has  been 
boiled.    Add  to  it  a  little  more  sweet 
herbs,  twenty-four  grains  of  allspice, 
six  blades  of  mace,  two  large  onions, 
four  carrots,  half  an  ounce  of  whole 
pepper,  and  some  salt.     Let  it  sim- 
mer for  four  hours,  and  then  strain 
the  broth  through  a  cloth  sieve.  Put 
into  it  the  green  part  of  the  turtle 
that  has  been  cut  in  pieces  and  nicely 
cleaned,  with  two  bottles  of  Madeira. 
When  it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes 
with  the  turtle,  add  the  broth  to  it. 
Melt  half  a  pound  of  butter   in  a 
stewpan,  add  four  large  spoonfuls  of 
flour,  stir  it  on  the  fire  till  of  a  fine 
brown  colour,  and  pour  some  of  the 
broth  to  it.     Mix  it  well,  and  strain 
it  through  a  hair  sieve  into  the  soup. 
Cut  the  liver,  lights,  heart,  kidneys, 
and  fat  into  small  square  pieces,  and 
put  them  into  the  soup  with  half  a 
tea-spoonful  of  cayenne,  two  of  curry 
powder,  and  four  table-spoonfuls  of 
the  essence  of  anchovies.    Let  it  boil 
an  hour  and  a  half,  carefully  skim- 
ming off  the  fat.  Pound  the  reserved 
veal  in  a  marble  mortar  for  the  force- 
meat, and  rub  it  through  a  hair  sieve, 
with  as  much  of  the  udder  as  there 
is  of  meat  from  the  leg  of  teal.    Put 
some  bread  crumbs  into  a  stewpan 
with  milk  enough  to  moisten  it,  add- 
ing a  little  chopped  parsley  and  sha- 
lot.  Dry  it  on  the  fire,  rub  it  through 
a  wire  sieve,  and  when  cold  mix  it 
all  together,  that  every  part  may  be 
equally  blended.  Boil  six  eggs  hard, 
take  the  yolks  and  pound  them  with 
the  other  ingredients  ;  season  it  with 
salt,  cayenne,  and  a  little  curry  pow- 
der.    Add  three  raw  egG:^,  nnx  all 
459 


VAC 


VAC 


v;ell  together,  and  make  the  force- 
meat into  small  balls  the  size  of  a 
pigeon's  egg.  Ten  minutes  before 
the  soup  is  ready  put  in  the  force- 
meat balls,  and  continue  to  skim  the 
soup  till  it  is  taken  off  the  fire.  If 
the  turtle  weighs  eighty  pounds,  it 
will  require  nearly  three  bottles  of 
Madeira  for  the  soup.  When  the 
turtle  is  dished,  squeeze  two  lemons 
into  each  tureen.  It  is  also  very 
good  with  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a 
dozen  of  the  yolks  put  in  each,  tu- 
reen. This  is  a  highly  fashionable 
soup,  and  such  as  is  made  in  the 
royal  kitchen ;  but  it  is  difficult  of 
digestion,  and  fit  only  for  those  who 
*  live  to  eat.'  Foreigners  in  general 
are  extremely  fond  of  it ;  and  at  the 
Spanish  dinner  in  1808,  eight  hun- 
dred guests  attended,  and  two  thou- 
sand five  hundred  pounds  weight  of 
turtle  were  consumed. 

TUSK.  Lay  the  tusk  in  water 
the  first  thing  in  the  morning  ;  after 
it  has  lain  three  or  four  hours,  scale 
and  clean  it  very  well  ;  then  shift 
the  water,  and  let  it  lie  till  you  want 
to  dress  it.  If  it  is  large,  cut  it  down 
the  back,  and  then  across  ;  if  small, 
only  down  the  back  ;  put  it  into  cold 
water,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  about 
twenty  minutes.  Send  it  to  table  in 
a  napkin,  with  egg  sauce,  butter  and 
mustard,  and  parsnips  cut  in  sHces, 
in  a  plate. 

TWOPENNY.  The  malt  beverage 
thus  denominated,  is  not  formed  to 
keep,  and  therefore  not  likely  to  be 
brewed  by  any  persons  for  their  own 


consumption.  The  following  pro- 
portions for  one  barrel,  are  inserted 
merely  to  add  to  gen*^ral  information 
in  the  art  of  brewing. 

£  s.  d. 
Malt,  a  bushel  and  a  half  0  9  0 
Hops,  one  pound  .  .  0  1  G 
Liquorice  root,  a  pound  and 

a  half 0     1      6 

Capsicum,  a  quarter  of  an 

ounce 0     0      1 

Spanish  liquorice,  2  ounces  0  0  2 
Treacle,  five  pounds  ..018 


0  13      11 


One  barrel  of  twopenny, 
paid  for  at  the  publican's, 
128  quarts,  at  4rf.  per 
quart 2     2      8 

Brewed  at  home,  coals  in- 
cluded      0  15      0 

Clear  gain,  17      8 


It  is  sufficient  to  observe  respect- 
ing this  liquor,  that  it  requires  no 
storing,  being  frequently  brewed  one 
week,  and  consumed  the  next.  The 
quantity  of  capsicum  in  one  barrel 
of  twopenny,  is  as  much  as  is  com- 
monly contained  in  two  barrels  of 
porter :  this  readily  accounts  for  the 
preference  given  to  it  by  the  work- 
ing classes,  in  cold  winter  mornings. 
Twopenny  works  remarkably  quick, 
and  must  be  carefully  attended  to,  in 
the  barrels. 


V. 


Vaccine  inoculation.  One 

of  the  most  important  discoveries  in 
the  history  of  animal  nature  is  that 
of  the  Cow  Pox,  which  was  publicly 
announced  by  Dr.  Jenner  in  the  year 
1798,  though  it  had  for  ages  been 
160 


known  by  some  of  the  dairymen  in 
the  west  of  England.  This  malady 
appears  on  the  nipples  of  cows  in  the 
form  of  irregular  pustules,  and  it  is 
now  ascertained  that  persons  inocu- 
lated with  the  matter  taken  from  them 


V  AR 


V  AR 


are  thereby  rendered  incapable  of 
the  small  pox  infection.  Innumera- 
ble experiments  have  been  made  in 
different  countries,  in  Asia  and  Ame- 
rica, with  nearly  the  same  success  ; 
and  by  a  series  of  facts  duly  authen- 
ticated, in  many  thousands  of  in- 
stances, it  is  fully  proved  that  the 
vaccine  inoculation  is  a  milder  and 
safer  disease  than  the  inoculated 
small  pox  ;  and  while  the  one  has 
saved  its  tens  of  thousands,  the  other 
is  going  on  to  save  its  millions.  With 
a  view  of  extending  the  beneficial 
effects  of  the  new  inoculation  to  the 
poor,  a  new  dispensary,  called  the 
Vaccine  Institution,  has  been  es- 
tablished in  London,  where  the  ope- 
ration is  performed  gratis,  and  the 
vaccine  matter  may  be  had  by  those 
who  wish  to  promote  this  superior 
method  of  inoculation.  The  prac- 
tice itself  is  very  simple.  Nothing 
more  is  necessary  than  making  a 
small  puncture  in  the  skin  of  the 
arm,  and  applying  the  matter.  But 
as  it  is  of  great  consequence  that 
the  matter  be  good,  and  not  too  old, 
it  is  recommended  to  apply  for  the 
assistance  of  those  who  make  it  a 
part  of  their  business,  as  the  ex«- 
pense  is  very  trifling. 

VARNISH  FOR  BOOTS.  To 
render  boots  and  shoes  impervious 
to  the  wet,  take  a  pint  of  linseed 
oil,  half  a  pound  of  mutton  suet,  six 
or  eight  ounces  of  bees'  wax,  and  a  . 
small  piece  of  rosin.  Boil  all  toge- 
ther in  a  pipkin,  and  let  it  cool  to 
milk  warm.  Then  with  a  hair  brush 
lay  it  on  new  boots  or  shoes  ;  but 
it  is  better  still  to  lay  it  on  the  lea- 
ther before  the  articles  are  made. 
The  shoes  or  boots  should  also  be 
brushed  over  with  it,  after  they 
come  from  the  maker.  If  old  boots 
or  shoes  are  to  be  varnished,  the 
mixture  is  to  be  laid  on  when  the 
leather  is  perfectly  dry. 

VARNISH  FOR  BRASS.  Put 
into  a  pint  of  alcohol,  an  ounce  of 
turmeric  powder,  two  drams  of  ar- 
natto,  and  two  drams   of  saffron. 


Agitate  the  mixture  during  seven 
days,  and  filter  it  into  a  clean  bot- 
tle. Now  add  three  ounces  of  clean 
seed-lac,  and  agitate  the  bottle  every 
day  for  fourteen  days.  When  the 
lacquer  is  used,  the  pieces  of  brass 
if  large  are  to  be  first  warmed,  so 
as  to  heat  the  hand,  and  the  varnish, 
istobeapplied  with  a  brush.  Smaller  ' 
pieces  may  be  dipped  in  the  varnish, 
and  then  drained  by  holding  them 
for  a  minute  over  the  bottle.  This 
varnish,  when  applied  to  rails  for 
desks,  has  a  most  beautiful  appear- 
ance, like  that  of  burnished  gold. 

VARNISH  FOR  DRAWINGS. 
Mix  together  Jtwo  ounces  of  spirits 
of  turpentine,  and  one  ounce  of  Ca- 
nada balsam.  The  print  is  first  to 
be  sized  with  a  solution  of  isinglass 
water,  and  dried  ;  the  varnish  is 
then  to  be  applied  with  a  camel- 
hair  brush.  But  for  oil  paintings,  a 
different  composition  is  prepared. 
A  small  piece  of  white  sugar  candy 
is  dissolved  and  mixed  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  brandy;  the  whites  of  eggs 
are  then  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  the 
clear  part  is  poured  off  and  incor- 
porated with  the  mixture.  The 
paintings  are  then  brushed  over  with 
the  varnish,  which  is  easily  washed 
off  when  they  are  required  to  be 
cleaned  again,  and  on  this  account 
it  will  be  far  superior  to  any  other 
kind  of  varnish  for  this  purpose. 

VARNISH  FOR  FANS.  To 
make  a  varnish  for  fans  and  cases, 
dissolve  two  ounces  of  gum-mastic, 
eight  ounces  of  gum-sandaric,  in  a 
quart  of  alcohol,  and  then  add  four 
ounces  of  Venice  turpentine. 

VARNISH  FOR  FIGURES. 
Fuse  in  a  crucible  half  an  ounce  ct 
tin,  with  the  same  quantity  of  bis- 
muth. When  melted,  add  half  an 
ounce  of  mercury  ;  and  when  per- 
fectly combined,  take  the  mixture  ^ 
from  the  fire  and  cool  it.  This  sub- 
stance, mixed  with  the  white  of  an 
eg§,  forms  a  very  beautiful  varnish 
for  plaster  figures. 

VARNISH  FOR  FURNITURE, 
46i 


V  AR 


V  AR 


This  is  made  of  white  wax  melted  in 
the  oil  of  petrolium.  A  light  coat  of 
this  mixture  is  laid  on  the  wood  with 
a  badger's  brush,  while  a  little  warm, 
and  the  oil  will  speedily  evaporate. 
A  coat  of  wax  will  be  left  behind, 
which  should  afterwards  be  polished 
with  a  woollen  cloth. 

VARNISH  FOR  HATS.  The 
shell  of  the  hat  having  been  prepared, 
dyed,  and  formed  in  the  usual  man- 
ner, is  to  be  stiffened,  when  perfectly 
dry,  with  the  following  composition, 
worked  upon  the  inner  surface.  One 
pound  of  gum  kino,  eight  ounces  of 
gum  elemi,  three  pounds  of  gum 
olibanum,  three  pounds  of  gum  copal, 
two  pounds  of  gum  juniper,  one 
pound  of  gum  ladanum,  one  pound 
of  gum  mastic,  ten  pounds  of  shell 
lac,  and  eight  ounces  of  frankin- 
cense. These  are  pounded  small 
and  mixed  together ;  three  gallons 
of  alcohol  ai*e  then  placed  in  an 
earthen  vessel  to  receive  the  pounded 
gums,  and  the  vessel  is  then  to  be 
frequently  agitated.  When  the  gums 
are  sufficiently  dissolved  by  this  pro- 
cess, a  pint  of  liquid  ammonia  is 
added  to  the  mixture,  with  an  ounce  ^ 
of  oil  of  lavender,  and  a  pound  of 
gum  myrrh  and  gum  opoponax,  dis- 
solved in  three  pints  of  spirit  of  wine. 
The  whole  of  the  ingredients  being 
perfectly  incorporated  and  free  from 
lumps,  constitute  the  patent  water- 
proof mixture  with  which  the  shell 
of  the  hat  is  stiffened.  When  the 
shell  has  been  dyed,  shaped,  and 
rendered  perfectly  dry,  its  inner  sur- 
face and  the  under  side  of  the  brim 
are  varnished  with  this  composition 
by  means  of  a  brush.  The  hat  is 
then  placed  in  a  warm  drying-room 
until  it  becomes  hard.  This  process 
is  repeated  several  times,  taking  care 
that  the  varnish  does  not  penetrate 
through  the  shell,  so  as  to  appear  on 
the  outside.  To  allow  the  perspira- 
tion of  the  head  to  evaporate,  small 
holes  are  to  be  pierced  through  the 
crovv^i  of  the  hat  from  the  inside  out- 
ward ;  and  the  nap  of  silk,  beaver* 

_        46*2 


or  other  fur,  is  to  be  laid  on  by  the 
finisher  in  the  usual  way.  That  on 
the  under  side  of  the  brim,  which  has 
been  prepared  as  above,  is  to  be  at- 
tached with  copal  varnish. 

VARNISH  FOR  PAINTINGS. 
Mix  six  ounces  of  pure  mastic  gum 
with  the  same  quantity  of  }>ounded 
glass,  and  introduce  the  compound 
into  a  bottle  containing  a  pint  of  oil 
of  turj)eRtine.  Now  add  half  an 
ounce  of  camphor  bruised  in  a  mor- 
tar. When  the  mastic  is  dissolved, 
put  in  an  ounce  of  Venice  turpentine, 
and  agitate  the  whole  till  the  turpen- 
tine is  perfectly  dissolved.  When 
the  varnish  is  to  be  applied  to  oil 
paintings,  it  must  be  gently  poured 
from  the  glass  sediment,  or  filtered 
through  a  muslin. 

VARNISH  FOR  PALING.  A 
varnish  for  any  kind  of  coarse  wood 
work  is  made  of  tar  ground  up  with 
Spanish  brown,  to  the  consistence  of 
common  paint,  and  then  spread  on 
the  wood  with  a  large  brush  as  soon 
as  made,  to  prevent  its  growing  too 
stiff  and  hard.  The  colour  may  be 
changed  by  mixing  a  little  white  lead, 
whiting,  or  ivory  black,  with  the 
Spanish  brown.  For  pales  and  wea- 
ther boards  this  varnish  is  superior 
to  paint,  and  much  cheaper  than 
what  is  commonly  used  for  that  pur-  1 
pose.  It  is  an  excellent  preven- 
tive against  wet  and  weather,  and  if 
laid  on  smooth  wood  it  will  have  a 
good  gloss.  I 

VARNISH  FOR  SILKS.  To  one  A 
quart  of  cold-drawn  Unseed  oil,  add  1 
half  an  ounce  of  litharge.  Boil  them 
for  half  an  hour,  and  then  add  half 
an  ounce  of  copal  varnish.  While 
the  ingredients  are  heating  in  a  cop- 
per vessel,  put  in  one  ounce  of  rosin, 
and  a  few  drops  of  neatsfoot  oil, 
stirring  the  whole  together  with  a 
knife.  When  cool,  it  is  ready  for 
use.  This  varnish  will  set,  or  keep 
its  place  on  the  silk  in  four  hours  ^ 
the  silk  may  then  be  turned  and  var- 
nished on  the  other  side. 

VARNISH  FOR  STRAW  HATS. 


V  EA 


V  E  A 


For  straw  or  chip  hats,  put  half  an 
ounce  of  black  sealing-wax  powdered 
into  two  ounces  of  spirits  of  wine  or 
turpentine,  and  place  it  near  the  fire 
till  the  wax  is  dissolved.  If  the  hat 
has  lost  its  colour  or  turned  brown, 
it  may  first  be  brushed  over  with 
writing  ink,  and  well  dried.  The 
varnish  is  then  to  be  laid  on  warm 
with  a  soft  brush,  in  the  sun  or  be- 
fore the  fire,  and  it  will  give  it  a  new 
gloss  which  will  resist  the  wet. 

VARNISH  FOR  TINWARE. 
Put  three  ounces  of  seed-lac,  two 
drams  of  dragon's  blood,  and  one 
ounce  of  turmeric  powder,  into  a  pint 
of  well-rectified  spirits.  Let  the 
whole  remain  for  fourteen  days,  but 
•  during  that  time,  agitate  the  bottle 
once  a  day  at  least.  When  properly 
combined,  strain  the  liquid  through 
a  piece  of  muslin.  This  varnish  is 
called  lacquer  ;  it  is  brushed  over 
tinware  to  give  it  a  resemblance  to 
brass. 

VARNISH  FOR  WOOD.  The 
composition  which  is  the  best  adapt- 
ed to  preserve  wood  from  the  decay 
occasioned  both  by  the  wet  and  the 
dry  rot,  is  as  follows.  Melt  twelve 
ounces  of  rosin  in  an  iron  kettle,  and 
when  melted,  add  eight  ounces  of 
roll  brimstone.  When  both  are  in 
a  liquid  state,  pour  in  three  gallons 
of  train  oil.  Heat  the  whole  slowly, 
gradually  adding  four  ounces  of  bees' 
wax  in  small  pieces,  and  keep  the 
mixture  stirring.  As  soon  as  the 
solid  ingredients  are  dissolved,  add 
as  much  Spanish  brown,  red  or  yel- 
loW  ochre,  ground  fine  with  some  of 
the  oil,  as  will  give  the  whole  a  deep 
shade.  Lay  on  this  varnish  as  hot 
and  thin  as  possible  ;  and  some  days 
after  the  first  coat  becomes  dry,  give 
a  second.  This  will  preserve  planks 
^      and  other  wood  for  ages. 

VEAL.  In  purchasing  this  article, 
the  following  things  should  be  ob- 
served. The  flesh  of  a  bull  calf  is 
the  firmest,  but  not  so  white.  The 
V  fillet  of  the  cow  calf  is  generally  pre- 
ferred for  the  udder.     The  whitest 


meat  is  not  the  most  juicy,  having 
been  made  so  by  frequent  bleeding, 
and  giving  the  calf  some  whiting  to 
lick.  Choose  that  meat  which  has 
the  kidney  well  covered  with  fat, 
thick  and  white.  If  the  bloody  vein 
in  the  shoulder  look  blue,  or  of  a 
bright  red,  it  is  newly  killed ;  but 
any  other  colour  shows  it  stale.  The 
other  parts  should  be  dry  and  white  : 
if  clammy  or  spotted,  the  meat  is 
stale  and  bad.  The  kidney  turns 
first  in  the  loin,  and  the  suet  will 
not  then  be  firm.  This  should  care- 
fully be  attended  to,  if  the  joint  is 
to  be  kept  a  little  time.  The  first 
part  that  turns  bad  in  a  leg  of  veal, 
is  where  the  udder  is  skewered  back  : 
of  course  the  skewer  should  be  taken 
out,  and  both  that  and  the  p«rt  un- 
der it  wiped  every  day.  It  will  then 
keep  good  three  or  four  days  in  hot 
weather.  Take  care  also  to  cut  out 
the  pipe  that  runs  along  the  chine  of 
a  loin  of  veal,  the  same  as  in  beef, 
to  hinder  it  from  tainting.  The  skirt 
of  the  breast  of  veal  is  likewise  to 
be  taken  off,  and  the  inside  of  the 
breast  wiped  and  scraped,  and 
sprinkled  with  a  little  salt. 

VEAL  BLANQUETS.  Cut  thin 
sUces  otF  a  fillet  of  veal  roasted. 
Put  some  butter  into  a  stewpan,  with 
an  onion  chopped  small ;  fry  them 
till  they  begin  to  brown,  then  dust 
in  some  flour,  and  add  some  gravy, 
and  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs,  seasoned 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace ;  let 
this  simmer  till  you  have  the  flavour 
of  the  herbs,  then  put  in  your  veal ; 
beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in  a 
little  cream,  and  grated  nutmeg, 
some  chopped  parsley,  and  a  little 
lemon  peel  shred  fine.  Keep  it  stir- 
ring one  way  till  it  is  smooth,  and  of 
a  good  thickness  :  squeeze  in  a  little 
juice  of  orange,  and  dish  it  up. 
Garnish  with  orange  and  barberries. 

VEAL  BROTH.  To  make  a  very 
nourishing  veal  broth,  take  oflf  the 
knuckle  of  a  leg  or  shoulder  of  veal, 
with  very  little  meat  to  it,  and  put  it 
into  a  stewpot,  with  three  quarts  of 
4G3 


V  E  A 


V  E  A 


water.  Add  an  old  fowl,  four  shank- 
bones  of  mutton  extremely  well  soak- 
ed and  bruised,  three  blades  of  mace, 
ten  peppercorns,  an  onion,  and  a 
large  slice  of  bread.  Cover  it 
close,  boil  it  up  once,  and  skim  it 
carefully.  Simmer  it  four  hours  as 
slowly  as  possible,  strain  and  take 
off  the  fat,  and  flavour  it  with  a  lit- 
tle salt. — Another  way.  Take  a 
scrag  of  veal,  of  about  three  pounds ; 
put  it  into  a  clean  saucepan,  with  a 
tea-spoonful  of  salt ;  when  it  boils, 
scum  it  clean ;  put  in  a  spoonful  of 
ground  rice,  some  mace,  a  faggot  of 
herbs,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  near 
two  hours,  or  till  you  have  about 
two  quarts  :  send  it  to  table  with 
your  ve&l  in  the  middle,  toasted 
bread,  Und  parsley  and  batter  in  a 
boat. 

VEAL  A  LA  CREME.  Take  the 
best  end  of  a  loin  of  veal,  joint  it, 
and  cut  a  little  of  the  suet  from  the 
kidney.  Make  it  lie  flat,  then  cut  a 
place  in  the  middle  of  the  upper  part 
about  three  inches  deep  and  six  inches 
long,  take  the  piece  out  and  chop  it, 
add  a  little  beef  suet  or  beef  marrow, 
parsley,  thyme,  green  trufiles,  mush- 
rooms, shalots,  lemon  peel  chopped 
fine,  and  season  it  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  little  beaten  allspice.  Put  all 
together  into  a  marble  mortar,  add 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  a  little 
French  bread  soaked  in  cream. 
Pound  the  ingredients  well,  fill  the 
cavity  with  the  forcemeat,  and  cover 
it  with  a  piece  of  veal  caul.  Then 
tie  it  down  close,  cover  the  whole 
with  a  large  piece  of  caul,  and  roast 
it  gently.  When  to  be  served  up, 
take  off'  the  large  caul,  let  it  colour 
a  little,  glaze  it  lightly,  and  put  un- 
der it  a  white  sauce.  A  fillet  of  veal 
•  may  be  done  in  the  same  way,  in- 
#     stead  of  using  plain  stuffing  for  it. 

VEAL  CAKE.  Boil  six  or  eight 
eggs  hard  ;  cut  the  yolks  in  two, 
and  lay  some  of  the  pieces  in  the 
bottom  of  the  pot.  Shake  in  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  some  slices  of  veal 
and  ham,  and  then  eggs  again ;  shak^ 
464 


ing  in  after  each,  some  chopped 
parsley,  with  pepper  and  salt,  till 
the  pot  is  full.  Then  put  in  water 
enough  to  cover  it,  and  lay  on  it 
about  an  ounce  of  butter  :  tie  it  over 
with  a  double  paper,  and  bake  it 
about  an  hour.  Then  press  it  close 
together  with  a  spoon,  and  let  it 
stand  till  cold.  The  cake  may  be 
put  into  a  small  mould,  and  then  it 
will  turn  out  beautifully  for  a  supper 
or  side  dish. 

VEAL  COLLOPS.  Cut  long  thin 
collops,  beat  them  well,  and  lay  on 
them  a  bit  of  thin  bacon  of  the  same 
size.  Spread  forcemeat  over,  sea- 
soned high,  and  also  a  little  garlic 
and  cayenne.  Roll  them  up  tight, 
about  the  size  of  two  fingers,  but 
not  more  than  two  or  three  inches 
long.  Fasten  each  firmly  with  a 
small  skewer,  smear  them  over  with 
egg,  fry  them  of  a  fine  brown,  and 
pour  a  rich  brown  gravy  over. — To 
dress  collops  quickly  in  another  way, 
cut  them  as  thin  as  paper,  and  in 
small  bits,  with  a  very  sharp  knife. 
Throw  the  skin  and  any  odd  bits  of 
veal  into  a  little  water,  with  a  dust 
of  pepper  and  salt.  Set  them  on 
the  fire  while  the  collops  are  prepar- 
ing and  beating,  and  dip  them  into 
a  seasoning  of  herbs,  bread,  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  having 
first  wetted  them  with  egg.  Then 
put  a  bit  of  butter  into  a  fryingpan, 
and  give  the  collop&  a  very  quick 
fry ;  for  as  they  are  so  thin,  two 
minutes  will  do  them  on  both  sides.  J 
Put  them  into  a  hot  dish  before  the  ' 
fire,  strain  and  thicken  the  gravy, ' 
give  it  a  boil  in  the  fryingpan,  and 
pour  it  over  the  collops.  The  ad- 
dition of  a  little  ketchup  will  be  an 
improvement. — Another  way  is  to 
fry  the  collops  in  butter,  seasoned 
only  with  salt  and  pepper.  Then 
simmer  them  in  gravy,  either  white 
or  brown,  with  bits  of  bacon  served 
with  them.  If  white,  add  lemon 
peel  and  mace,  and  a  little  cream. 

VEAL  CUTLETS.     Cut  the  veal 
into  thin  slices,  dip  them  in  the  yolks 


VEA 


VEA 


of  egg,  strew  them  over  with  grated 
bread  and  nutraeg,  sweet  herbs  and 
parsley,  and  lemon  peel  minced  fine, 
and  frv  them  with  butter.  When 
the  meat  is  done,  lay  it  on  a  dish 
before  the  fire.  Put  a  little  water 
into  the  pan,  stir  it  round  and  let  it 
boil ;  add  a  little  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  and 
pour  it  over  the  cutlets.  Or  fry 
them  without  the  bread  and  herbs, 
boil  a  little  flour  and  water  in  the 
pan  with  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  pour 
it  on  the  cutlets,  but  take  out  the 
thyme  before  the  dish  is  sent  to 
table. 

VEAL  GRAVY.     Make  it  as  for 

cuUis  ;    but  leave    out  the   spices, 

herbs,  and  flour.  It  should  be  drawn 

.  very  slowly  ;  and  if  for  white  dishes, 

the  meat  should  not  be  browned. 

VEAL  LARDED.  Take  off*  the 
under  bone  of  a  neck  of  veal,  and 
leave  only  a  part  of  the  long  bones 
on.  Trim  it  neatly,  lard  and  roast 
H^  it  gently  with  a  veal  caul  over  it. 
..Ten  minutes  before  it  is  done,  take 
^ff  the  caul,  and  let  the  veal  be  of 
la.  very  light  colour.  When  it  is  to 
be  served  up,  put  under  it  some  sor- 
rel sauce,  celery  heads,  or  asparagus 
tops,  or  serve  it  with  mushroom 
sauce. 

VEAL  OLIVES.  Cut  some  long 
thin  coUops,  beat  them,  lay  them  on 
thin  slices  of  fat  bacon,  and  over 
these  a  layer  of  forcemeat  highly 
seasoned,  with  some  shred  shalot 
and  cayenne.  Roll  them  tight,  about 
the  size  of  two  fingers,  but  not  more 
than  two  or  three  inches  long.  Fasten 
them  round  with  a  small  skewer, 
rub  egg  over  them,  and  fry  them  of 
a  light  brown.  Serve  with  brown 
gravy,  in  which  boil  some  mushrooms 
pickled  or  fresh,  and  garnish  with 
fried  balls. 

VEAL  OLIVE  PIE.  Having  pre- 
pared the  veal  olives,  lay  them  round 
and  round  the  dish,  making  them 
highest  in  the  middle.  Fill  it  nearly 
up  with  water,  and  cover  it  with 
paste.      When    baked,     mix    some 


gravy,  cream,  and  flour,  and  pour  it 
hot  into  the  pie. 

VEAL  PATTIES.  Mince  some 
veal  that  is  not  quite  done,  with  a 
little  parsley,  lemon  peel,  a  dust  of 
salt  and  nutmeg.  Add  a  spoonftii 
of  cream,  gravy  sufficient  to  moisten 
the  meat,  and  a  little  scraped  ham. 
This  mixture  is  not  to  be  warmed  till 
the  patties  are  baked. 

VEAL  PIE.  Take  some  of  the 
middle  or  scrag  of  a  small  neck, 
and  season  it,  adding  or  not  a  few 
slices  of  lean  bacon  or  ham.  If 
wanted  of  a  high  relish,  add  mace, 
cayenne,  and  nutraeg,  to  the  salt 
and  pepper ;  also  forcemeat,  and 
eggs.  To  these  likewise  may  be 
adde  1,  truffles,  morels,  mushrooms, 
sweetbreads  cut  into  small  bits,  and 
cocks' combs  blanched,  if  approved. 
It  will  be  very  good  without  any  of 
the  latter  additions,  but  a  rich  gravy 
must  be  prepared,  and  poured  in 
after  baking. — To  make  a  rich  veal 
pie,  cut  steaks  from  a  neck  or  breast 
of  veal,  season  them  with  pepper, 
salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  very  little  clove 
in  powder.  Slice  two  sweetbreads, 
and  season  them  in  the  same  man- 
ner. Lay  a  puff  paste  on  the  ledge 
of  the  dish,  put  in  the  meat,  yolks 
of  hard  eggs,  the  sweetbreads,  and 
some  oysters,  up  to  the  top  of  the 
dish.  Lay  over  the  whole  some 
very  thin  slices  of  ham,  and  fill  up 
the  dish  with  water.  Cover  it  with 
a  crust,  and  when  taken  out  of  the 
oven,  pour  in  at  the  top,  through  a 
funnel,  a  few  spoonfuls  of  good  veal 
gravy,  and  fill  it  up  with  cream  ; 
but  first  boil  and  thicken  it  with  a 
tea-spoonful  of  flour. 

VEAL  AND  PARSLEY  PIE. 
Cut  some  slices  from  a  leg  or  neck 
of  veal ;  if  the  leg,  from  about  the 
knuckle.  Season  them  with  salt, 
scald  some  pickled  parsley,  and 
squeeze  it  dry.  Cut  the  parsley  a 
little,  and  lay  it  at  the  bottom  of 
the  dish  ;  then  put  in  the  meat,  and 
so  on,  in  layers.  Fill  up  the  dish 
with  new  milk,  but  not  so  high  as  to 

S  o  4^5 


V  E  A 


VE  A 


touch  the  crust.  When  baked,  jx>ur 
out  a  little  of  the  milk,  and  put  in 
half  a  pint  of  good  scalded  cream. 
Chicken  may  be  cut  up,  skinned, 
and  dressed  in  the  same  way. 

VEAL  PORCUPINE.  Bone  a 
fine  large  breast  of  veal,  and  rub  it 
over  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Spread  it  out,  and  lay  on  it  a  few 
slices  of  bacon,  cut  as  thin  as  pos- 
sible. Add  a  handful  of  parsley 
shred  fine,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs, 
boiled  hard  and  chopped,  and  a  little 
lemon  peel  finely  shred.  Steep  the 
crumb  of  a  penny  loaf  in  cream,  and 
add  to  it,  seasoning  the  whole  toge- 
ther with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg. 
Roll  the  veal  close,  and  skewer  it  up. 
Cut  some  fat  bacon,  the  lean  of  boil- 
ed ham,  and  pickled  cucumbers, 
about  two  inches  long.  Place  these 
in  rows  upon  the  veal,  first  the  ham, 
then  the  bacon,  and  last  the  cucum- 
bers, till  the  whole  is  larded.  Put 
the  meat  into  a  deep  earthen  pan 
.  with  a  pint  of  water,  cover  it  close, 
tS?  and  set  it  in  a  slow  oven  for  two 
hours.  Skim  off  the  fat  afterwards,  and 
strain  the  gravy  through  a  sieve  into 
a  stewpan.  Add  a  glass  of  white 
wine,  a  little  lemon  pickle  and  caper 
liquor,  and  a  spoonful  of  mushroom 
ketchup,  and  thicken  the  gravy  with 
a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Lay 
the  porcupine  on  a  dish,  and  pour 
the  sauce  over  it.  Have  ready  pre- 
pared a  thin  forcemeat,  made  of  the 
crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  half  a  pound 
of  beef  suet  shred  fine,  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  and  a  few  oysters  chop- 
ped. Mix  these  together,  season  the 
forcemeat  with  cayenne,  salt,  pep- 
per, and  nutmeg,  and  spread  it  on 
the  veal  caul.  Having  rolled  the 
whole  up  tight,  like  collared  eel, 
bind  it  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  it  an  hour. 
When  done  enough,  cut  it  into  four 
sHces,  laying  one  at  each  end,  and 
the  others  on  the  sides  of  the  dish. 
Have  the  sweetbreads  ready  pre- 
pared, cut  in  slices  and  fried,  and 
lay  them  round  the  dish,  with  a  few 
mushrooms  pickled.  This  is  allowed 
4m 


to  make  a  fine  bottom  dish,  when 
game  is  not  to  be  had. 

VEAL  ROLLS.  Cut  thin  slices 
of  either  fresh  or  cold  veal,  spread 
on  them  a  fine  seasoning  of  a  very 
few  crumbs,  a  little  chopped  bacon 
or  scraped  ham,  and  a  little  suet, 
parsley,  and  shalot.  Or  instead  of  the 
parsley  and  shalot,  some  fresh  mush- 
rooms stewed  and  minced.  Then 
add  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  small 
piece  of  pounded  mace.  This  stuff- 
ing may  either  fill  up  the  roll  like  a 
sausage,  or  be  rolled  with  the  meat. 
In  either  case  tie  it  up  very  tight, 
and  stew  very  slowly  in  good  gravy, 
and  a  glass  of  sherry.  Skim  it  very 
carefully,  and  serve  it  up  quite  ten- 
der.— Another  way.  Take  slices  of  • 
veal,  enough  to  make  a  side  dish  ; 
lay  them  on  your  dresser,  and  lay 
forcemeat  upon  each  slice  ;  roll  them 
up,  and  tie  them  round  with  coarse 
thread.  Rub  them  over  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  spit  them  on  a  bird 
spit,  and  roast  them  of  a  fine  brown. 
For  sauce,  have  good  gravy,  with 
morels,  truffles,  and  mushrooms,** 
tossed  up  to  a  proper  thickness.  Lay 
your  rolls  in  your  dish,  and  pour 
your  sauce  over.  Garnish  with  lemon . 

VEAL  SAUSAGES.  Chop  eijual 
quantities  of  lean  veal  and  fat  bacon, 
a  handful  of  sage,  a  little  salt  and 
pepper,  and  a  few  anchovies.  Bent 
all  in  a  mortar ;  and  when  used,  roll 
and  fry  it.  Serve  it  with  fried  sip- 
pets, or  on  stewed  vegetables,  or  on 
white  collops. 

VEAL  SCALLOPS.  Mince  some 
cold  veal  very  small,  and  set  it  over  •*' 
the  fire  with  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little 
cream.  Heat  it  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  put  it  into  the  scallop  shells,  . 
and  fill  them  with  crumbs  of  bread. 
Lay  on  some  pieces  of  butter,  and 
brown  the  scallops  before  the  fire. 
Either  veal  or  chicken  looks  and  eats 
^I'ell,  prepared  in  this  way,  and 
lightly  covered  with  crumbs  of  fried 
bread  ;  or  these  may  be  laid  on  i» 
little  heaps.  "k  ; 


V  EG 


VEG 


VEAL-SUET  PUDDING.  Cut 
the  crumb  of  a  threepenny  loaf  into 
slices,  boil  and  sweeten  two  quarts 
of  new  milk,  and  pour  over  it.  When 
soaked,  pour  out  a  little  of  the  milk  ; 
mix  it  with  six  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
half  a  nutmeg.  Lay  the  slices  of 
bread  into  a  dish,  with  layers  of  cur- 
rants and  veal  suet  shred,  a  pound  of 
each.  Butter  the  dish  well,  and 
bake  it ;  or  if  preferred,  boil  the  pud- 
ding in  a  bason. 

VEAL  SWEETBREAD.  Parboil 
a  fine  fresh  sweetbread  for  five  mi- 
nutes, and  throw  it  into  a  basin  of 
water.  When  the  sweetbread  is  cold, 
dry  it  thoroughly  in  a  cloth,  and 
roast  it  plain.  Or  beat  up  the  yolk 
of  an  e^g,  and  prepare  some  fine 
bread  crumbs.  Run  a  lark  spit  or  a 
skewer  through  it,  and  tie  it  on  the 
ordinary  spit.  Egg  it  over  with  a 
paste  brush,  powder  it  well  with 
bread  crumbs,  and  roast  it.  Serve 
it  up  with  fried  bread  crumbs  round 
it,  and  melted  butter,  with  a  little 
mushroom  ketchup  and  lemon  juice. 
Or  serve  the  sweetbread  on  toasted 
bread,  garnished  with  egg  sauce  or 
gravy.  Instead  of  spitting  the  sweet- 
bread, it  may  be  done  in  a  Dutch 
oven,  or  fried. 

VEGETABLES.  There  is  nothing 
in  which  the  difference  between  an 
elegant  and  an  ordinary  table  is  more 
visible,  than  in  the  dressing  of  ve- 
getables, especially  greens.  They 
■^  may  be  equally  as  fine  at  first,  at 
one  place  as  at  another,  but  their 
look  and  taste  afterwards  are  very 
diff'erent,  owing  entirely  to  the  care- 
less manner  in  which  they  have  been 
prepared.  Their  appearance  at  table 
however  is  not  all  that  should  be 
considered  ;  for  though  it  is  certainly 
desirable  that  they  should  be  pleas- 
ing to  the  eye,  it  is  of  still  greater 
consequence  that  their  best  qualities 
should  be  carefully  preserved.  Ve- 
getables are  generally  a  wholesome 
diet,  but  become  very  prejudicial  if 
not  properly  dressed.  Cauliflowers, 
and  others  of  the  same  species,  are 


often  boiled  only  criaj),  to  preserve 
their  beauty.  For  the  look  alone, 
they  had  better  not  be  boiled  at  all, 
and  almost  as  well  for  the  purpose 
of  food,  as  in  such  a  crude  state  they 
are  scarcely  digestible  by  the  strong- 
est stomach.  On  the  other  hand, 
when  overboiled  they  become  vapid, 
and  in  a  state  similar  to  decay,  in 
which  they  afford  no  sweet  purifying 
juices  to  the  stomach,  but  load  it 
with  a  mass  of  mere  feculent  matter. 
The  same  may  be  said  of  many  other 
vegetables,  their  utility  being  too 
often  sacrificed  to  appearance,  and 
sent  to  table  in  a  state  not  fit  to  be 
eaten.  A  contrary  error  often  pre- 
vails respecting  potatoes,  as  if  they 
could  never  be  done  too  much.  Hence 
they  are  popped  into  the  saucepan 
or  steamer,  just  when  it  happens  to 
suit,  and  are  left  doing,  not  for  the 
time  they  require,  but  till  it  is  con- 
venient to  take  them  up  ;  when  per- 
haps their  nutricious  qualities  are  all 
boiled  away,  and  they  taste  of  no- 
thing but  water.  Ideas  of  nicety  and 
beauty  in  this  case  ought  all  to  be 
subservient  to  utility  ;  for  what  is 
beauty  in  vegetables  growing  in  the 
garden  is  not  so  at  table,  from  the 
change  of  circumstances.  They  are 
brought  to  be  eaten,  and  if  not 
adapted  properly  to  the  occasion, 
they  are  deformities  on  the  dish  in- 
stead of  ornaments-  The  true  cri- 
terion of  beauty  is  their  suitableness 
to  the  purposes  intended.  Let  them 
be  carefully  adapted  to  this,  by  being 
neither  under  nor  over  done,  and 
they  will  not  fail  to  please  both  a  cor- 
rect eye  and  taste,  while  they  consti- 
tute a  wholesome  species  of  diet.  A 
most  pernicious  method  of  dressing 
vegetables  is  often  adopted,  by  put- 
ting copper  into  the  saucepan  with 
them  in  the  form  of  halfpence.  This 
is  a  dangerous  experiment,  as  the 
green  colour  imparted  by  the  cop- 
peras, renders  them  in  the  highest 
degree  unwholesome,  and  even  poi- 
sonous. Besides,  it  is  perfectly  un- 
necessary, for  if  put  into  boiling 
467 


VEG 


VEG 


water  with  a  little  salt,  and  boiled 
up  directly,  they  will  be  as  beauti- 
fi>lly  green  as  the  most  fastidious 
person  can  require.  A  little  pearl- 
ash  might  safely  be  used  on  such 
an  occasion,  and  with  equal  effect, 
its  alkaline  properties  tending  to 
correct  the  acidity.  Many  vegeta- 
bles are  more  wholesome,  and  more 
agreeable  to  the  taste,  when  stewed 
a  good  while,  only  care  must  be 
taken  that  they  stew  merely,  with- 
out being  sufl'ered  to  boil.  Boiling 
produces  a  sudden  effect,  stewing  a 
slower  effect,  and  both  have  their 
appropriate  advantages.  But  if  pre- 
parations which  ought  only  to  stew, 
are  permitted  to  boil,  the  process  is 
destroyed,  and  a  premature  effect 
produced,  that  cannot  be  corrected 
by  any  future  stewing.  In  order  to 
have  vegetables  in  the  best  state  for 
the  table,  they  should  be  gathered 
in  their  proper  season,  when  they 
are  in  the  greatest  perfection,  and 
thS,t  is  when  they  are  most  plentiful. 
Forced  vegetables  seldom  attain  their 
true  flavour,  as  is  evident  from  very 
early  asparagus,  which  is  altogether 
inferior  to  that  which  is  matured  by 
nature  and  common  culture,  or  the 
mere  operation  of  the  sun  and  cli- 
mate. Peas  and  Potatoes  are  sel- 
dom worth  eating  before  midsum- 
mer ;  unripe  vegetables  being  as  in- 
sipid and  unwholesome  as  unripe 
fruit,  and  are  liable  to  the  same  ob- 
jections as  when  they  are  destroyed 
by  bad  cooking.  Vegetables  are  too 
commonly  treated  with  a  sort  of 
cold  distrust,  as  if  they  were  natural 
enemies.  They  are  seldom  admit- 
ted freely  at  our  tables,  and  are  often 
tolerated  only  upon  a  sideboard  in 
small  quantities,  as  if  of  very  infe- 
rior consideration.  The  effect  of 
this  is  like  that  of  all  indiscriminate 
reserve,  that  we  may  negatively  be 
said  to  lose  friends,  because  we  have 
not  the  confidence  to  make  them. 
From  the  same  distrust  or  prejudice, 
there  are  many  vegetables  never 
wsed  at  all,  which  are  nevertheless 
468 


both  wholesome  and  palatable,  par- 
ticularly amongst  those  best  known 
under  the  denomination  of  herbs. 
The  freer  use  of  vegetable  diet  would 
be  attended  wi;h  a  double  advan- 
tage, that  of  improving  our  health, 
and  lessening  the  expense  of  the 
table.  Attention  should  however  be 
paid  to  their  size  and  quality,  in 
order  to  enjoy  them  in  their  highest 
degree  of  perfection.  The  middle 
size  are  generally  to  be  preferred  to 
the  largest  or  the  smallest ;  they  are 
more  tender,  and  full  of  flavour,  just 
before  they  are  quite  full  grown. 
Freshness  is  their  chief  value  and  ex- 
cellence, and  the  eye  easily  discovers 
whether  they  have  been  kept  too 
long,  as  in  that  case  they  lose  all 
their  verdure  and  beauty.  Roots, 
greens,  salads,  and  the  various  pro- 
ductions of  the  garden,  when  first 
gathered,  are  plump  and  firm,  and 
have  a  fragrant  freshness  which  no 
art  can  restore,  when  they  have  lost 
it  by  long  keeping,  though  it  will 
impart  a  little  freshness  to  put  them  * 
into  cold  spring  water  for  some  time 
before  they  are  dressed.  They 
should  neither  be  so  young  as  not  to 
have  acquired  their  good  qualities, 
nor  so  old  as  to  be  on  the  point  of 
losing  them.  To  boil  them  in  soft 
water  will  best  preserve  the  colour 
of  such  as  are  green  ;  or  if  only  hard 
water  be  at  hand,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
potash  should  be  added.  Great 
care  should  be  taken  to  pick  and 
cleanse  them  thoroughly  from  dust, 
dirt,  and  insects,  and  nicely  to  trim 
off  the  outside  leaves.  If  allowed 
to  soak  awhile  in  water  a  little  salt- 
ed, it  will  materially  assist  in  cleans- 
ing them  from  insects.  All  the  uten- 
sils employed  in  dressing  vegetables 
should  be  extremely  clean  and  nice; 
and  if  any  copper  vessel  is  ever  used 
for  the  purpose,  the  greatest  atten- 
tion must  be  paid  to  its  being  well 
tinned.  The  scum  which  arises  from 
vegetables  as  they  boil  should  be 
carefully  removed,  as  cleanliness  is 
essential  both  to  their  looking  and 


V  E  G 


VEG 


eating-  well.  The  lid  of  the  saucepan 
should  always  be  taken  oft' when  they 
boil,  to  give  access  to  the  air,  even 
if  it  is  not  otherwise  thought  neces- 
sary. Put  in  the  vegetables  when 
the  water  boils,  with  a  little  salt,  and 
let  them  boil  quickly  ;  when  they 
sink  to  the  bottom,  they  are  generally 
done  enough.  Take  them  up  im- 
mediately, or  they  will  lose  their  co- 
lour and  goodne»s.  Drain  the  water 
from  them  thoroughly,  before  they 
are  sent  to  table.  When  greens  are 
quite  fresh  gathered,  they  will  not 
require  so  much  boiling  by  at  least 
a  third  of  the  time,  as  when  they 
have  been  gathered  a  day  or  two  and 
brought  to  the  public  market.  The 
following  table  shows  when  the  va- 
rious kinds  of  vegetables  are  in  sea- 
son, or  the  time  of  their  earliest  na- 
tural growth,  and  when  they  are 
most  plentiful,  or  in  their  highest 
perfection. 


Artichokes, 

— Jerusalem  do. 

Angelica  stalks, 

Asparagus, 

Beet  roots, 

Boricole, 

Cabbage, 

Red  ditto, 

White  ditto, 

Cardoons, 

Carrots, 

Caulifiowers, 

Celery, 

Chervil, 

Corn  Salad, 

Cucumbers, 

Endive, 

Kidney  Beans, 

Leeks, 

Lettuce, 

Onions, 

Parsley, 

Parsnips, 

Peas, 

Potatoes, 

Radishes, 

-^Spanish  ditto, 


July,  September, 
Sept.  November, 
May,  June, 
April,  June, 
Dec.  January, 
November,  January 
May,  July, 
July,  August, 
October, 
Nov.  December, 
May,  August, 
June,  August, 
Sept.  November, 
March,  May, 
May,  June, 
July,  September, 
June,  October, 
July,  August, 
Sept.  December, 
April,  July, 
August,  November, 
February,  March, 
July,  October, 
June,  August, 
June,  November, 
March,  June, 
August,  September, 


Scarlet  Beans, 

Small  Salad, 

Salsify, 

Scorzonera, 

Sea  Kale, 

Shalots, 

Savory  Cabbage, 

Sorrel, 

Spinage, 

— Winter  ditto. 

Turnips, 

Turnip  tops, 

Windsor  Beans, 


July,  August, 
May,  June, 
July,  August, 
July,  August, 
April,  May, 
August,  October*, 
Sept.  November, 
June,  July, 
March,  July, 
Oct.  November, 
May,  July, 
April,  May, 
June,  August, 


VEGETABLES  AND  FISH, 
Pick,  wash,  and  chop  some  sorrel, 
spinage,  small  onions  or  chives,  and 
parsley.  Put  them  into  a  ste wpan  with 
fresh  butter,  a  good  spoonful  of  lemon 
or  Seville  orange  juice,  or  vinegar 
and  water,  some  essence  of  anchovy, 
and  cayenne  pepper.  Do  these 
gently  over  the  fire  till  the  vegetables 
are  tender,  then  put  in  the  fish,  and 
stew  them  till  well  done. 

VEGETABLE  ESSENCES.  The 
flavour  of  the  various  sweet  and  sa- 
voury herbs  may  be  obtained,  by 
combining  their  essential  oils  with 
rectified  spirit  of  wine,  in  the  pro- 
portion of  one  dram  of  the  former  to 
two  ounces  of  the  latter  ;  by  picking 
the  leaves,  and  laying  them  in  a 
warm  place  to  dry,  and  then  filling 
a  wide-mouth  bottle  with  them,  and 
pouring  on  them  wine,  brandy,  or 
vinegar,  and  letting  them  steep  for 
fourteen  days. 

VEGETABLE  MARROW.  Take 
off  all  the  skin  of  six  or  eight  gourds, 
put  them  into  a  st^wpan  with  water, 
salt,  lemon  juice,  and  a  bit  of  butter, 
or  fat  bacon.  Let  them  stew  gently 
till  quite  tender,  and  serve  them  up 
with  rich  Dutch  sau<::e,  or  any  other 
sauce  hig:hly  flavoured. 

VEGETABLE  PIE.  Scald  and 
blanch  some  broad  beans,  and  cut 
in  some  young  carrots,  turnips,  ar- 
tichoke bottoms,  mushrooms,  peas, 
onions,  parsley,  celery,  or  any  of 
these.  Make  the  whole  into  a  nice 
469 


VEG 


VEN 


stew,  uith  some  good  veal  gravy. 
Bake  a  crust  over  a  dish,  with  a  lit- 
tle lining  round  the  edge,  and  a  cup 
turned  up  to  keep  it  from  sinking. 
WIren  baked,  open  the  lid,  and  pour 
iu  the  stew. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP.  Pare  and 
slice  tive  or  six  cucumbers,  add  the 
inside  of  as  many  cos-lettuces,  a 
sprig  or  two  of  mint,  two  or  three 
onions,  some  pepper  and  salt,  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  young  peas,  and  a  lit- 
tle parsley.  Put  these  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  half  a  pound  of  fresh  but- 
ter, to  stew  in  their  own  liquor  half 
an  hour,  near  a  gentle  fire.  Pour 
on  the  vegetables  two  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  stew  them  two  hours. 
Rub  a  little  tlour  in  a  tea-cupful  of 
;vater,  boil  it  with  the  rest  nearly 
twenty  minutes,  and  serve  it. — Ano- 
ther way.  Peel  and  slice  six  large 
onions,  six  potatoes,  six  carrots, 
and  four  turnips  ;  fry  them  in  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  pour  on  them 
four  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Toast 
a  crust  of  bread  quite  brown  and 
hard,  but  do  not  burn  it ;  add  it  to 
the  above,  with  some  celery,  sweet 
herbs,  white  pepper,  and  salt.  Stew 
it  all  together  gently  four  hours, 
and  strain  it  through  a  coarse  cloth. 
Put  in  a  sliced  carrot,  some  celery, 
and  a  small  turnip,  and  stew  them 
in  the  soup.  An  anchovy,  and  a 
spoonful  of  ketchup,  may  be  added 
if  approved. 

VEGETABLE  SYRUP.  To  a 
pint  of  white  wine  vinegar,  put  two 
pounds  of  the  best  brown  sugar. 
Boil  them  to  a  syrup  ;  and  when 
quite  cold,  add  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  paregoric  elixir,  which  is  made 
in  the  following  manner.  Steep  in 
a  pint  of  brandy  a  dram  of  purified 
opium,  a,  dram  of  flowers  of  ben- 
jamin, and  two  scruples  of  camphor, 
adding  a  dram  of  the  oil  of  anni- 
seed.  Let  it  stand  ten  days,  occa- 
sionally shaking  it  up,  and  then 
strain  it  off.  This  added  to  the 
above  composition,  forms  the  cele- 
brated Godbold's  Vegetable  Syrup. 
470 


The  paregoric  elixir  taken  by  itself, 
a  tea-spoonful  in  half  a  pint  of  white 
wine  whey  or  gruel  at  bed  time,  is 
an  agreeable  and  efl'ectual  medicine 
for  coughs  and  colds.  It  is  also  ex- 
cellent for  children  who  have  the 
hooping  cough,  in  doses  of  from  five 
to  twenty  drops  in  a  little  water,  or 
on  a  small  piece  of  sugar.  The  ve- 
getable syrup  is  chiefly  intended  for 
consumptive  cases. 

VELVETS.  When  the  pile  of 
velvet  requires  to  be  raised,  it  is 
only  necessary  to  warm  a  smoothing 
iron,  to  cover  it  with  a  wet  cloth, 
and  hold  it  under  the  velvet.  The 
vapour  arising  from  the  wet  cloth 
will  raise  the  pile  of  the  velvet,  with 
the  assistance  of  a  whisk  gently 
passed  over  it.  To  remove  spots 
and  stains  in  velvet,  bruise  some  of 
the  plant  called  soapwort,  strain  out 
the  juice,  and  add  to  it  a  small 
quantity  of  black  soap.  Wash  the 
stain  with  this  liquor,  and  repeat  it 
several  times  after  it  has  been  al- 
lowed to  dry.  To  take  wax  out  of 
velvet,  rub  it  frequently  with  hot 
toasted  bread. 

VENISON.  If  it  be  young  and 
good,  the  fat  of  the  venison  will  be 
clear,  bright,  and  thick,  and  the 
cleft  part  smooth  and  close  :  but  if 
the  cleft  is  wide  and  tough,  it  is 
old.  To  judge  of  its  sweetness,  run 
a  very  sharp  narrow  knife  into  the 
shoulder  or  haunch,  and  the  meat 
will  be  known  by  the  scent.  Few 
people  like  it  when  it  is  very  high. 

VENISON  PASTY.  To  prepare 
venison  for  pasty,  take  out  all  the 
bones,  beat  and  season  the  meat, 
and  lay  it  into  'a  stone  jar  in  large 
pieces.  Pour  over  it  some  plain 
drawn  beef  gravy,  not  very  strong  ; 
lay  the  bones  on  the  top,  and  set 
the  jar  in  a  water  bath,  or  saucepan 
of  water  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  sim- 
mer three  or  four  hours.  The  next 
day,  when  quite  cold,  remove  the 
cake  of  fat,  and  lay  the  meat  in  hand- 
some pieces  on  the  dish.  If  not 
sufficiently     seasoned,    add     more 


V  EN 


V  E  R 


pepper,   salt,  or  pimento.      Put  in 
soniC  of  the  gravy,  and  keep  the  re- 
mainder   for  the    time    of  serving. 
When  the  venison  is  thus  prepared, 
it  will  not  require  so  much  time  to 
bake,  or  such  a  very  thick  crust  as 
usual,  and  by  which  the  under  part 
is  seldom  done  through.     A  shoul- 
der of  venison  makes  a  good  pasty, 
and  if  there  be  a  deficiency  of  fat,  it 
must  be  supplied  from  a  good  loin  of 
mutton,    steeped   twenty-four  hours 
in  equal  parts  of  rape,  vinegar,  and 
port.     The  shoulder  being  sinewy, 
it  will  be  of  advantage  to  rub  it  well 
with   sugar  for  two  or  three  days  ; 
and  when  to  be  used,  clear  it  per- 
fec  ly  from  the  sugar  and  the  wine 
with  a  dry  cloth.     A  mistake  used 
to  prevail,  that  venison  could  not  be 
baked  too  much  ;  but  three  or  four 
hours  in  a  slow  oven  will  be  sufficient 
to  make  it  tender,  and  the  flavour 
i        will  be  preserved.     Whether  it   be 
a  shoulder  or  a  side  of  venison,  the 
meat  must  be  cut  in  pieces,  and  laid 
s^        with  fat  between,  that  it  may  be  pro- 
I       portioned   to  each  person,   without 
k       breaking  up  the  pasty  to  find  it.  Lay 
I        some  pepper  and  salt  at  the  bottom 
of  the  dish,  and  some  butter  ;  then 
the  meat  nicely  packed,  that  it  may 
be  sufficiently  done,  but  not  lie  hol- 
low to  harden  at  the  edges.     In  or- 
der to  provide  gravy  for  the  pasty, 
boil  the  venison  bones  with  some  fine 
old  mutton,  and  put  half  a  pint  of 
the  gravy  cold  into  the  dish.     Then 
lay  butter  on  the  venison  and  cover 
as  well  as  line  the  sides  with  a  thick 
crust,  but  none  must  be  put  under 
the  meat.     Keep  the  remainder  of 
the  gravy  till  the  pasty  comes  from 
the  oven  ;  pour  it  quite  hot  into  the 
middle  by  means  of  a  funnel,  and 
mix  it  well  in  the  dish  by  shaking. 
It  should  be  seasoned  with  pepper 
and    salt. — Another   way.     Take   a 
side  of  venison,  bone  it,  and  season 
it  with  pepper  and  salt,  cloves,  and 
mace  finely  beaten  ;  cut  your  veni- 
son in  large  pieces,  and   season   it 
very  well  with  your  spices   then  lay 


it  into  an  earthen  pan  ;  make  a  good 
gravy  of  two  pound  of  beef,  and  pour 
this  gravy  over  the  venison  ;  take 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  beef 
suet,  well  picked  from  the  skins,  wet 
a  coarse  cloth,  lay  your  suet  on  it, 
and  cover  it  over,  and  beat  it  with  a 
rolling-pin,  till  it  is  as  fine  as  butter; 
as  your  cloth  dries,  wet  it,  and  shift 
your  suet,  and  put  it  over  the  top  of 
the  venison  ;  make  a  paste  of  flour 
and  water,  and  cover  the  pan,  and 
send  it  to  the  oven  to  bake ;  it  is 
best  baked  with  a  batch  of  bread  ; 
when  it  comes  from  the  oven,  and  is 
quite  cold,  make  a  pufl^-paste;  lay 
a  paste  all  over  your  dish,  and  a  roll 
round  the  inside,  then  put  in  your 
venison  with  th«  fat,  and  all  the  gra* 
vy,  if  the  dish  will  hold  it ;  put  on 
the  lid,  and  ornament  it  as  your 
fancy  leads.  It  will  take  two  hours 
and  a  half  in  a  quick  oven.  A  sheet 
of  i>^per  laid  on  the  top,  will  prevent 
it  frOm  catching,  and  the  crust  will 
be  of  a  fine  colour.  By  baking  your 
venison  in  this  manner,  it  will  keep 
four  or  five  days  before  you  use  it, 
if  you  do  not  take  off"  the  crust. 

VENISON  SAUCE.  Boil  an 
ounce  of  dried  currants  in  half  a  pint 
of  water,  and  some  crumbs  of  bread, 
a  few  cloves  or  grated  nutmeg,  a 
glass  of  port  wine,  and  a  piece  of 
butter.  Sweeten  it  to  your  taste, 
and  send  it  to  table  in  a  boat. 

VERJUICE.  Lay  some  ripe  crabs 
together  in  a  heap  to  sweat,  then 
take  out  the  stalks  and  decayed  ones, 
and  mash  up  the  rest.  Press  the 
juice  through  a  hair  cloth  into  a  clean 
vessel,  and  it  will  be  fit  to  use  in  a 
month.  It  is  proper  for  sauces  where 
lemon  is  wanted. 

VERMICELLI  PUDDING.  Boil 
a  pint  of  milk  with  lemon  peel  and 
cinnamon,  and  sweeten  it  with  loat 
sugar.  Strain  it  through  a  sieve, 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  vermi- 
celli, and  boil  it  ten  minutes.  Then 
put  in  the  yolks  of  five  and  the  whites 
of  three  eggs,  mix  them  well  toge- 
ther, and  steam  the  pudding  an  hour 
471 


VIN 


VIN 


a«d  a  quarter,  or  bake  it  half  an 
hour. 

VERMICELLI  SOUP.  Boil  two 
ounces  of  vermicelli  in  three  quarts 
of  veal  gravy,  then  rub  it  through  a 
tammis,  season  it  with  salt,  give  it  a 
boil,  and  skim  it  well.  Beat  up  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  mix  with  them 
half  a  pint  of  cream,  stir  them  gra- 
dually into  the  soup,  simmer  it  for 
a  few  minutes,  and  serve  it  up.  A 
little  of  the  vermicelli  may  be  re- 
served to  serve  in  the  soup,  if  ap- 
proved.— Another  way.  Take  two 
quarts  of  strong  veal  broth,  put 
into  a  clean  saucepan  a  piece  of 
bacon  stuck  with  cloves,  and  half  an 
ounce  of  butter  worked  up  in  flour ; 
then  take  a  small  fowl  trussed  to 
boil,  break  the  breastbone,  and  put 
it  into  your  soup  ;  stove  it  close, 
and  let  it  stew  three  quarters  of  an 
hour ;  take  about  two  ounces  of  ver- 
micelli, and  put  to  it  some  of  the 
broth ;  set  it  over  the  fire  till  it  is 
quite  tender.  When  your  soup  is 
ready,  take  out  the  fowl,  and  put  it 
into  your  dish ;  take  out  your 
bacon,  skim  your  soup  as  clean  as 
possible  ;  then  pour  it  on  the  fowl, 
and  lay  your  vermicelli  all  over  it ; 
cut  some  French  bread  thin,  put  it 
into  your  soup,  and  send  it  to  table. 
If  you  chuse  it,  you  may  make  your 
soup  with  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  send 
a  handsome  piece  of  it  in  the  middle 
of  your  dish,  instead  of  the  fowl. 

VICARAGE  CAKE.  Mixapound 
and  a  half  of  fine  flour,  half  a  pound 
of  moist  sugar,  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg and  ginger,  two  eggs  well  beaten, 
a  table-spoonful  of  yeast,  and  the 
same  of  brandy.  Make  it  into  a  light 
paste,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  melted  in  half  a  pint  of  milk. 
Let  it  stand  half  an  hour  before  the 
fire  to  rise,  then  add  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  currants,  well  washed 
and  cleaned,  and  bake  the  cake  in 
a  brisk  oven.  Butter  the  tin  before 
the  cake  is  put  into  it. 

VINEGAR.     Allow  a  pound  of 
lump  sugar   to   a  gallon   of  water. 
172 


While  it  is  boiling,  skim  it  carefully, 
and  pour  it  into  a  tub  to  cool.  When 
it  is  no  more  than  milk  warm,  rub 
some  yeast  upon  a  piece  of  bread 
and  put  into  it,  and  let  it  ferment 
about  twenty-four  hours.  Then  tun 
the  liquor  into  a  cask  with  iron  hoops, 
lay  a  piece  of  tile  over  the  bung- 
hole,  and  set  it  in  the  kitchen,  which 
is  better  than  placing  it  in  the  sun. 
It  will  be  fit  to  bottle  in  about  six 
months.  March  is  the  best  time  of 
the  year  for  making  vinegar,  though 
if  kept  in  the  kitchen,  this  is  of  less 
consequence.  A  cheap  sort  of  vine- 
gar may  be  made  of  the  refuse  of  the  , 
bee  hives,  after  the  honey  is  extract-  i 
ed.  Put  the*  broken  combs  into  a  ' 
vessel,  and  add  two  parts  of  water  : 
expose  it  to  the  sun,  or  keep  it  in  a 
warm  place.  Fermentation  will  suc- 
ceed in  a  few  days,  when  it  must  be 
well  stirred  and  pressed  down  to 
make  it  soak  ;  and  when  the  fer- 
mentation is  over,  the  matter  is  to 
belaid  upon  sieves  to  drain.  The  .'J 
yellow  liquor  which  forms  at  the  bot-  i 
tom  of  the  vessel  must  be  removed, 
the  vessel  well  cleaned,  and  the  li- 
quor which  has  been  strained  is  to 
be  returned  to  the  vessel.  It  will 
immediately  begin  to  turn  sour  ;  it 
should  therefore  be  covered  with  a 
cloth,  and  kept  moderately  warm. 
A  pellicle  will  be  formed  on  the  sur- 
face, beneath  which  the  vinegar  ac- 
quires strength  :  it  must  be  kept 
standing  for  a  month  or  two,  and 
then  put  into  a  cask.  The  bung- 
hole  should  be  left  open,  and  the 
vinegar  will  soon  be  fit  for  use.  The 
prunings  of  the  vine,  being  bruised 
and  put  into  a  vat  or  mash  tub,  and 
boiling  water  poured  on  them,  will 
produce  a  liquor  of  a  fine  vinous  qua- 
lity, which  may  be  used  as  vinegar. — 
Another  method.  To  every  pound 
of  coarse  sugar  add  a  gallon  of  wa-  • 
ter  ;  boil  the  mixture,  and  take  off* 
the  scum  as  long  as  any  rises.  Then 
pour  it  into  proper  vessels,  and  when 
sufficiently  cooled  put  into  it  a  warm 
toast   covered   with   veast.      Let   it 


VIP 


VIP 


work  about  twenty-four  hours,  and 
then  put  it  into  an  iron-bound  cask, 
fixed  either  near  a  constant  fire,  or 
where  the  summer  sun  shines  the 
greater  part  of  the  day.  In  this  si- 
tuation it  should  not  be  closely  stop- 
ped up,  but  a  tile  or  something  simi- 
lar should  be  laid  on  the  bunghole, 
to  keep  out  the  dust  and  insects.  At 
the  end  of  three  months  or  less  it 
will  be  clear,  and  fit  for  use,  and 
may  be  bottled  off.  The  longer  it  is 
kept  after  it  is  bottled,  the  better  it 
will  be.  If  the  vessel  containing  the 
liquor  is  to  be  exposed  to  the  sun's 
heat,  the  best  time  to  begin  making 
it  is  in  the  month  of  April. 

VINEGAR  FOR  SALADS.  Take 
three  ounces  each  of  tarragon,  sa- 
vory, chives,  and  shalots,  and  a  hand- 
ful of  the  tops  of  mint  and  balm,  all 
dry  and  pounded.  Put  the  mixture 
into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  with  a 
gallon  of  the  best  vinegar.  Cork  it 
down  close,  set  it  in  the  sun,  and  in 
a  fortnight  strain  off  and  squeeze  the 
herbs.  Let  it  stand  a  day  to  settle, 
and  filter  it  through  a  tammis  bag. 

VINEGAR  WHEY.  Set  upon  the 
fire  as  much  milk  as  is  wanted  for 
the  occasion,  and  when  it  is  ready 
to  boil,  put  in  vinegar  sufficient  to 
turn  it  to  a  clear  whey.  Let  it  stand 
some  minutes,  and  then  pour  it  off. 
If  too  acid,  a  little  warm  water  may 
be  added.  This  whey  is  well  adapt- 
ed to  promote  perspiration.  Lemon 
or  Seville  orange  juice  may  be  used 
instead  of  vinegar. 

VINGARET.  Chop  some  mint, 
parsley,  and  shalot;  and  mix  them  up 
with  oil  and  vinegar.  Serve  the  sauce 
in  a  boat,  for  cold  fowl  or  meat. 

VIPERS.  The  bites  of  such  rep- 
tiles should  constantly  be  guarded 
against  as  much  as  possible,  as  they 
are  not  unfrequently  attended  with 
dangerous  consequences.  Animals 
of  the  neat-cattle  kind  are  more 
liable  to  be  bitten  and  stung  by  these 
reptiles,  than  those  of  any  other  sort 
of  live  stock.  Instances  have  been 
known  where  the  tongues   of  such 


cattle  have  been  even  bitten  or  stung 
while  grazing  or  feeding,  which  have 
proved  fatal.  Such  stock  are,  how- 
ever, seldom  attacked  by  reptiles  of 
the  adder  kind,  except  in  cases  where 
these  are  disturbed  by  the  animals 
in  pasturing  or  feeding ;  which  is  the 
main  reason  why  so  many  of  th^m 
are  bitten  and  stung  about  the  head, 
and  occasionally  the  feet.  There  are 
mostly  much  pain,  inflammation,  and 
swelling  produced  by  these  bites  and 
stings  ;  the  progress  of  which  may 
commonly  be  checked  or  stopped,  and 
the  complaint  removed,  by  the  use 
of  such  means  as  are  directed  below. 
A  sort  of  soft  liquid  of  the  liniment 
kind  may  be  prepared  by  mixing 
strong  spirit  of  hartshorn,  saponace- 
ous liniment,  spirit  of  turpentine, 
and  tincture  of  opium,  with  olive  oil ; 
the  former  in  the  proportion  of  about 
two  ounces  each  to  three  of  the  last, 
incorporating  them  well  together  by 
shaking  them  in  a  phial,  which  will 
be  found  very  useful  in  many  cases. 
A  proper  quantity  of  it  should  be 
well  rubbed  upon  the  afi'ected  part, 
two  or  three  times  in  the  course  of 
the  day,  until  the  inflammation  and 
swelling  begin  to  disappear,  after 
the  bottle  has  been  well  shaken.  In 
the  more  dangerous  cases,  it  may 
often  be  advantageous  to  use  fo- 
mentations to  the  affected  parts,  es- 
pecially when  about  the  head,  with 
the  above  application  ;  such  as  those 
made  by  boiling  white  poppy-heads 
with  the  roots  of  the  marshmallow, 
the  leaves  of  the  large  plantain,  and 
the  tops  of  wormwood,  in  the  quan- 
tities of  a  few  ounces  of  the  first,  and 
a  handful  of  each  of  the  latter,  when 
cut  small,  and  bruised  in  five  or  six 
quarts  of  the  stale  grounds  of  malt 
liquor.  They  may  be  applied  fre- 
quently to  the  diseased  parts,  rub- 
bing them  afterwards  each  time  well 
^ith  the  above  soft  liquid  liniment. 
Where  there  are  feverish  appear- 
ances, as  is  often  the  case  in  the 
summer  season,  a  proper  quantity 
of  blood  may  sometimes  be  taken 
3  P  '  473 


IJ  M  B 


UNI 


away  with  great  benefit,  and  a  strong 
purge  be  afterwards  given  of  the 
cooling  kind  with  much  use.  In 
slight  cases  of  this  kind,  some  think 
the  continued  free  use  of  spirit  of 
hartshorn,  given  internally,  and  ap- 


plied externally  to  the  affected  partsr, 
is  the  best  remedy  of  any  that  is  yet 
known.  As  they  are  so  dangerous, 
these  reptiles  should  always  be  de- 
stroyed as  much  as  possible  in  all 
pastures  and  grazing  grounds. 


u 


Udder  sweet  pie.  Eithef  par- 
boil or  roast  a  tongue  and  udder, 
slice  them  into  tolerably  thin  slices, 
and  season  them  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Stone  half  a  pound  of  sun 
raisins,  raise  a  crust,  or  put  a  puff 
crust  round  the  edge  of  a  dish,  place 
a  layer  of  tongue  and  udder  at  the 
bottom,  and  then  some  raisins,  and 
so  on  till  the  dish  is  fiiU.  Cover  the 
top  with  a  crust,  and  when  the  pie 
is  baked,  pour  in  the  following  sauce. 
Beat  up  some  yolks  of  eggs,  with 
vinegar,  white  wine,  sugar,  and  but- 
ter. Shake  them  over  the  fire  till 
ready  to  boil,  and  add  it  to  the  pie 
immediately  before  it  is  sent  to  table. 

ULCERS.  Ulcers  should  not  be 
healed  precipitately,  for  it  may  be 
attended  with  considerable  danger. 
The  first  object  is  to  cleanse  the 
wound  with  emollient  poultices,  and 
soften  it  with  yellow  basilicon  oint- 
ment, to  which  may  be  added  a  little 
turpentine  or  red  precipitate.  They 
may  also  be  washed  with  lime  water, 
dressed  with  lint  dipped  in  tincture 
of  myrrh,  with  spermaceti,  or  any 
other  cooling  ointment. 

UMBRELLA  VARNISH.  Make 
for  umbrellas  the  following  varnish, 
which  will  render  them  proof  against 


wind  and  rain.  Boil  together  two 
pounds  of  turpentine,  one  pound  of 
litharge  in  powder,  and  two  or  three 
pints  of  linseed  oil.  The  umbrella 
is  then  to  be  brushed  over  with  the 
varnish,  and  dried  in  the  sun. 

UNIVERSAL  CEMENT.  To  an 
ounce  of  gum  mastic  add  as  much 
highly  rectified  spirits  of  wine  as 
will  dissolve  it.  Soak  an  ounce  of 
isinglass  in  water  until  quite  soft, 
then  dissolve  it  in  pure  rum  or  bran- 
dy, until  it  forms  a  strong  glue,  to 
which  add  about  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  gum  ammoniac  well  rub- 
bed and  mixed.  Put  the  two  mix- 
tures in  an  earthen  vessel  over  a 
gentle  heat;  when  well  united,  the 
mixture  may  be  put  into  a  phial,  and 
kept  well  stopped.  When  wanted 
for  use,  the  bottle  must  be  set  in 
warm  water,  and  the  china  or  glass 
articles  having  been  also  warmed, 
the  cement  must  be  applied.  It  will 
be  proper  that  the  broken  surfaces, 
when  carefully  fitted,  should  be  kept 
in  close  contact  for  twelve  hours  at 
least,  until  the  cement  is  fully  set, 
after  which  the  fracture  will  be  found 
as  secure  as  any  other  part  of  the 
vessel,  and  scarcely  perceptible. 


474 


W  AL 


WAL 


VV. 


Wafers.  Dry  some  flour  well, 
miK  with  it  a  little  pounded  sugar, 
and  finely  pounded  mace.  Make 
these  ingredients  into  a  thick  batter 
with  cream.  Butter  the  wafer  irons, 
and  make  them  hot ;  put  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  the  batter  into  them, 
bake  them  carefully,  and  roll  them 
off  the  iron  with  a  stick. 

WAINSCOTS.  Dirty  painted 
wainscots  may  be  cleaned  with  a 
sponge  wetted  in  potato  water,  and 
dipped  in  a  little  fine  sand.  For 
this  purpose  grate  some  raw  potatoes 
into  water,  run  the  pulp  through  a 
sieve,  and  let  it  stand  to  settle  ;  the 
clear  liquor  will  then  be  fit  for  use. 
If  applied  in  a  pure  state,  without 
the  sand,  it  will  be  serviceable  in 
cleaning  oil  paintings,  and  similar 
articles  of  furniture.  When  an  oak 
wainscot  becomes  greasy,  and  has 
not  been  painted,  it  should  be  wash- 
ed with  warm  beer.  Then  boil  two 
<]uarts  of  ale,  and  put  into  it  a  piece 
of  bees'  wax  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
with  a  large  spoonful  of  sugar.  Wet 
the  wainscot  all  over  with  a  brush 
dipped  in  the  mixture,  and  when 
dry,  riib  it  bright :  this  will  give  it  a 
fine  gloss. 

WALNUT  KETCHUP.  To  make 
the  finest  sort  of  walnut  ketchup, 
boil  or  simmer  a  gallon  of  the  ex- 
pressed juice  of  walnuts  when  they 
are  tender,  and  skim  it  well.  Then 
put  in  two  pounds  of  anchovies, 
bones  and  liquor ;  two  pounds  of 
shalot,  one  ounce  of  mace,  one  ounce 
of  cloves,  one  of  whole  pepper,  and 
one  of  garlic.  Let  all  simmer  to- 
gether till  the  shalots  sink ;  then 
put  the  liquor  into  a  pan  till  cold  ; 
bottle  it  up,  and  make  an  equal  dis- 
tribution of  the  spice.  Cork  it  well, 
and  tie  a  bladder  over.  It  will  keep 
twenty  years,  but  is  not  good  at 


first.  Be  careful  to  express  the  juice 
at  home,  for  what  is  sold  as  walnut 
ketchup  is  generally  adulterated.  I 
Some  people  make  liquor  of  the  out- 
side shell  when  the  nut  is  ripe,  but 
neither  the  colour  nor  the  flavour  is 
then  so  fine. — Another  way.  Take  ^ 
four  quarts  of  walnut  juice,  two 
quarts  of  white  wine  vinegar,  three 
ounces  of  ginger  sliced,  two  ounces 
of  black  pepper  bruised,  two  ounces 
of  white  pepper  bruised,  half  a 
pound  of  anchovies  ;  let  these  sim- 
mer gently,  till  half  the  quantity  is 
evaporated  ;  then  add  to  it  a  quart 
of  red  wine,  two  heads  of  garlic,  the 
yellow  rind  of  eight  Seville  oranges, 
or  half  a  pound  of  dried  orange  pee! 
cut  very  small,  and  forty  bay  leaves : 
give  it  one  boil  together,  then  cover 
it  close  in  an  earthen  vessel,  and 
let  it  stand  till  it  is  cold.  When  it 
is  cold  put  it  into  wide-mouthed 
quart  bottles  ;  and  into  each  of  the  ♦ 
bottles  put  one  ounce  of  shalots 
skinned  and  sliced ;  cork  the  bottles 
close,  and  put  them  by  for  two 
months,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 
The  shalots  will  likewise  eat  very  ' 
fine  when  taken  out,  though  they 
will  look  of  a  bad  colour. — Another 
way,  for  fish  sauce.  Take  walnuts, 
when  they  are  fit  for  pickling,  bruise 
them  well  in  a  marble  mortar,  and 
strain  off  the  liquor  from  them 
through  a  cloth,  let  it  stand  to  set- 
tle, pour  off  the  clear,  and  to  every 
pint  of  it  add  one  pound  of  ancho- 
vies, half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
mace,  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
cloves,  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  Jamaica  pepper,  bruised  fine ; 
boil  them  together  till  the  anchovies 
are  dissolved  ;  then  strain  it  off",  and 
to  the  strained  liquor  add  half  a 
pint  of  the  best  vinegar,  and  eight 
shalots  ;  just  boil  it  up  again,  pour 
475 


WAT 


WAX 


They  were  worked  in  the  same  man- 
ner, and  tunned  and  kept  in  the 
same  cellar ;  a  proof  that  the  water 
only  could  be  the  cause  of  the  dif- 
ference. Dorchester  beer,  which  is 
generally  in  much  esteem,  is  chiefly 
brewed  with  chalky  water,  which  is 
plentiful  in  almost  every  part  of  that 
county  :  aud  as  the  soil  is  mostly 
chalk,  the  cellars,  being  dug  in  that 
dry  soil,  contribute  much  to  the 
good  keeping  of  their  drink,  it  being 
of  a  close  texture,  and  of  a  dry  qua- 
lity, so  as  to  dissipate  damps  ;  for 
it  has  been  found  by  experience, 
that  datnp  cellars  are  equally  inju- 
rious to  the  casks  and  the  good  keep- 
ing of  the  liquor.  Where  water  is 
naturally  of  a  hard  quality,  it  may 
in  some  measure  be  softened  by  an 
exposure  to  the  sun  and  air,  and  by 
infusing  in  it  some  pieces  of  soft 
chalk  ;  or  when  the  water  is  set  on 
to  boil,  in  order  to  be  poured  on  the 
malt,  put  into  it  a  quantity  of  bran, 
and  it  will  have  a  very  good  eflfect. 

WATER  CAKES.  Dry  three 
pounds  of  fine  flour,  and  rub  into  it 
a  pound  of  sifted  sugar,  a  pound  of 
butter,  and  an  ounce  of  carraway 
seeds.  Make  it  into  a  paste  with 
three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  boiling 
new  milk  ;  roll  the  paste  very  thin, 
and  cut  it  into  any  form  or  size. 
Punch  the  cakes  full  of  holes,  and 
bake  on  tin  plates  in  a  cool  oven. 

WATER  GRUEL.  Mix  by  degrees  a 
large  spoonful  of  oatmeal  with  a  pint 
of  water  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
smooth,  boil  it.  Or  rub  the  oatmeal 
smooth  in  a  little  water,  and  put  it 
into  a  pint  of  water  boiling  on  the 
fire.  Stir  it  well,  and  boil  it  quick, 
but  do  not  suffer  it  to  boil  over.  In 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  strain  it  oflf, 
add  salt  and  a  bit  of  butter  when 
eaten,  and  stir  it  together  till  the 
whole  is  incorporated.  To  make  it 
however  in  the  quickest  manner, 
mix  a  spoonful  of  ground  oatmeal 
very  smooth,  with  as  much  hot  wa- 
ter as  will  just  liquify  it.  Then  gra- 
dually pour  upon  it  a  pint  of  boiling 
478 


water,  stirring  it  all  the  time  to  keep 
it  smooth.  It  may  be  cooled  by 
pouring  it  from  one  basin  to  ano- 
ther till  it  is  fit  to  drink.  Water 
gruel  made  in  this  way  is  very  smooth 
and  good,  and  being  prepared  in  a 
few  minutes,  it  is  panicularly  useful 
when  wanted  in  haste,  to  assist  the 
operation  of  medicine. 

WATER  PIPES.  To  prevent 
their  freezing  when  full  of  water, 
preserve  a  little  circulation  by  leav- 
ing the  cock  dripping  ;  or  by  tying 
up  the  ball  cock  during  the  winter's 
frost,  the  water  may  be  preserved 
for  use.  Care  should  be  taken  how- 
ever to  lay  the  pipe  which  supplies 
the  cistern  in  such  a  position  as  not 
to  retain  the  water,  and  of  course  it 
will  not  be  liable  to  freeze. 

WATER  SOUCHY.  Stew  two 
or  three  flounders,  some  parsley 
leaves  and  roots,  thirty  peppercorns, 
and  a  quart  of  water,  till  the  fish 
are  boiled  to  pieces,  and  then  pulp 
them  through  a  sieve.  Set  over  the 
fire  the  pulped  fish,  the  liquor  that 
boiled  them,  some  perch,  tench,  and 
flounders,  and  some  fresh  leaves  or 
roots  of  parsley.  Simmer  them  to- 
gether till  done  enough,  and  serve  in 
a  deep  dish.  Slices  of  bread  and 
butter  are  to  be  sent  to  table,  to  eat 
with  the  souchy. 

WAX.  Bees'  wax  is  obtained 
from  the  combs,  after  the  sweet  and 
liquid  parts  are  extracted,  by  heat- 
ing and  pressing  them  between  iron 
plates.  The  best  sort  is  firm  and 
hard,  of  a  clear  yellow  colour  and 
an  agreeable  odour,  similar  to  that 
of  honey.  New  wax  is  tough,  yet 
easily  broken  ;  by  long  keeping  it 
becomes  harder  and  more  brittle, 
loses  its  colour,  and  partly  also  its 
fragrance.  With  a  view  to  bleach 
the  wax,  it  is  cut  into  small  pieceis, 
melted,  and  poured  into  cold  water. 
In  this  state  it  is  exposed  to  the  sun, 
afterwards  melted  again,  poured  in- 
to water,  and  exposed  to  the  air, 
two  or  three  times  over,  till  it  is 
perfectly  blanched.     It  is  then  dis- 


WEE 


WEL 


solved  for  the  last  time,  cast  into 
flat  moulds,  and  again  exposed  to 
the  air  for  a  day  or  two,  in  order  to 
render  it  more  transparent. 

WAX  PLASTER.  This  is  made 
of  a  pound  of  yellow  wax,  half  a 
pound  of  white  rosin,  and  three 
quarters  of  mutton  suet,  melted  to- 
gether. This  forms  a  proper  plaster 
for  blisters,  and  in  other  cases  where 
a  gentle  dijjestive  is  necessary. 

WEAK  EYES.  Dimness  of  sight, 
arising  from  weakness  or  inflamma- 
tion, is  best  relieved  by  frequent 
washing  of  the  eyes  with  cold  water. 
If  this  do  not  succeed,  the  following 
solution  may  be  applied.  Dissolve 
four  grains  each  of  the  sugar  of  lead 
and  crude  sal-ammoniac,  in  eight 
ounces  of  water,  to  which  a  few 
drops  of  laudanum  may  occasionally 
be  added,  and  bathe  the  eyes  with 
it  night  and  morning.  A  tea-spoon- 
ful of  brandy  in  a  cup  of  water  will 
also  make  good  eye-water,  or  a  little 
simple  rose  water  may  supply  the 
place. 

WEDDING  CAKE.  Take  two 
pounds  of  butter,  beat  it  to  a  cream 
with  the  hand,  and  put  in  two  pounds 
of  fine  sugar  sifted.  Mix  well  to- 
gether two  pounds  of  fine  dried 
flour,  half  a  pound  of  almonds  blanch- 
ed and  pounded  with  orange-flower 
water,  and  an  ounce  of  beaten  mace. 
Beat  up  sixteen  eggs,  leaving  out 
three  whites,  and  put  to  them  half 
a  glass  of  sack,  and  the  same  of 
brandy.  Put  a  handful  of  the  flour 
*nd  almonds  to  the  sugar  and  butter, 
then  a  spoonful  of  the  eggs,  and  so 
on  till  they  are  all  mixed  together. 
Beat  it  an  hour  with  the  hand,  add 
two  pounds  of  currants,  half  a  pound 
of  citron,  half  a  pound  of  orange 
peel,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  orange- 
flower  water.  Butter  the  tin,  and 
bake  it  three  hours  and  a  half.  An 
iceing  should  be  put  over  the  cake 
after  it  is  baked. 

WEEDS.  Weeds  are  in  their 
most  succulent  state  in  the  month  of 


Ifc 


Jane,  and  there  is  scarcely  a  hedge 
border  but  might  be  rendered  use-' 
ful  by  mowing  them  at  this  season, 
but  which  afterwards  would  become 
a  nuisance.  After  the  weeds  have 
lain  a  few  hours  to  wither,  hungry 
cattle  will  eat  them  with  great  free- 
dom, and  it  would  display  the  ap- 
pearance of  good  management  to 
embrace  the  transient  opportunity. 

WELCH  ALE.  To  brew  very 
fine  Welch  ale,  pour  forty-two  gal- 
lons of  hot  but  not  boiling  water,  on 
eight  bushels  of  malt ;  cover, it  up, 
and  let  it  stand  three  hours.  Mean 
while  infuse  four  pounds  of  hops  in 
a  little  hot  water,  and  put  the  water 
and  hops  into  a  tub  ;  run  the  wort 
upon  them,  and  boil  them  together 
three  hours.  Strain  oft'  the  hops, 
and  reserve  them  for  the  small  beer.  |P 
Let  the  wort  stand  in  a  high  tub  till 
cool  enough  to  receive  the  yeast,  of 
which  put  in  two  quarts  of  the  best 
quality  :  mix  it  thoroughly  and  often. 
When  the  wort  has  done  working, 
the  second  or  third  day,  the  yeast 
will  sink  rather  than  rise  in  the  mid- 
dle :  remove  it  then,  and  tun  the 
ale  as  it  works  out.  Pour  in  a  quart 
at  a  time  gently,  to  prevent  the  fer- 
mentation from  continuing  too  long, 
which  weakens  the  liquor.  Put 
paper  over  the  bung-hole  two  or. 
three  davs  before  it  is  closed  up. 

WELCH  BEEF.  Rub  three 
ounces  of  saltpetre  into  a  good  piece 
of  the  round  or  buttock.  After  four 
hours  apply  a  handful  of  common 
salt,  a  quarter  of  a-n  ounce  of  Ja- 
maica pepper,  and  the  same  of  black 
pepper,  mixed  together.  Continue 
it  in  the  pickle  a  fortnight,  then  stuff 
it  with  herbs,  cover  it  with  a  thick 
paste,  and  bake  it.  Take  oflf  the 
paste,  pour  the  liquor  from  it,  and 
pour  over  it  some  melted  beef  suet. 

WELCH  PUDDING.  Melt  half 
a  pound  of  fine  butter  gently,  beat 
with  it  the  yolks  of  eight  and  the 
whites  of  four  eggs.  Mix  in  six 
ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  and  the  rind 
479 


W  ET 


WHE 


of  a  lemon  grated.  Put  a  paste  into 
a  dish  for  turning  out,  pour  in  the 
batter,  and  bake  it  nicely. 

WELCH  RABBIT.  Toast  a  slice 
of  bread  on  both  sides,  and  butter 
it.  Toast  a  slice  of  Gloucester  cheese 
on  one  side,  and  lay  that  on  the 
bread ;  then  toast  the  other  side  with 
a  salamander,  rub  mustard  over,  and 
serve  it  up  hot  under  a  cover, 

WENS.  These  are  prevalent 
chiefly  among  the  inhabitants  of 
marshy  countries,  bordering  on  rivers 
and  standing  waters,  especially  among 
females,  and  persons  of  a  delicate 
habit ;  but  they  very  often  arise  from 
serophula.  Camphor  mixed  with 
sweet  oil,  or  a  solution  of  sal  ammo- 
niac, have  often  been  applied  to 
these  tumours  with  success.  In  Der- 
byshire, where  this  disorder  greatly 
prevails,  they  use  the  following  pre- 
paration. Fifteen  grains  of  burnt 
sponge  are  beaten  up  with  a  similar 
<}uantity  of  millipede,  and  from  eight 
to  ten  grains  of  cinnabar  antimony. 
The  whole  is  to  be  mixed  with  honey, 
and  i.  taken    every    morning    before 

WESTPHALIA  HAM.     Rub  the 

ham  with  half  a  pound  of  coarse 
sugar,  let  it  lie  twelve  hours,  then 
rub  it  with  an  ounce  of  saltpetre 
pounded,  and  a  pound  of  common 
salt.  Let  it  lie  three  weeks,  turning 
it  every  day.  Dry  it  over  %<  wood 
fire,  and  put  a  pint  of  oak  sawdust 
into  the  water  when  it  is  boiled. — 
Another  way.  Take  spring  water 
that  is  not  hard,  add  saltpetre  and 
bay  salt  to  it  till  it  will  bear  an  egg, 
the  broad  way,  then  add  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  coarse  sugar  ;  mix  all 
together,  and  let  the  ham  lay  in  this 
pickle  a  fortnight  or  three  weeks  ; 
then  lay  it  in  the  chimney  to  dry. 
When  you  boil  it,  put  some  hay  into 
the  copper  with  it.  You  may  keep 
the  pickle  as  long  as  you  please  by 
often  boiling  it  up. 

WET  CLOTHES.    When  a  per- 
son has  the  misfortune  to  get  wet, 
4R0 


care  should  be  taken  not  to  get  too 
near  the  fire,  or  into  a  warm  room, 
so  as  to  occasion  a  sudden  heat. 
The  safest  way  is  to  keep  in  con- 
stant motion,  until  some  dry  clothes 
can  be  procured,  and  to  exchange 
them  as  soon  as  possible. 

WHEAT  BREAD.  To  make  it 
in  the  most  economical  way,  the 
coarsest  of  the  bran  only  is  to  be 
taken  from  the  flour,  and  the  second 
coat,  or  what  is  called  pollard,  is  to 
be  left  in  the  meal.  Five  pounds  of 
the  bran  are  to  be  boiled  in  some- 
what more  than  four  gallons  of  wa- 
ter, in  order  that,  when  perfectly 
smooth,  three  gallons  and  three 
quarts  of  clear  bran  water  may  be 
poured  into  and  kneaded  up  with 
forty-six  pounds  of  the  meal ;  adding 
salt  as  well  as  yeast,  in  the  same 
way  as  for  other  bread.  When  the 
dough  is  ready  to  bake,  the  loaves 
are  to  be  made  up,  and  baked  two 
hours  and  a  half  in  a  tolerably  hot 
oven.  As  flour  when  thus  made  up 
will  imbibe  three  quarts  more  of  this 
bran  liquor  than  of  common  water, 
it  evidently  produces  not  only  a  more 
nutricious  and  substantial  food,  but 
increases  one  fifth  above  the  usual 
quantity ;  consequently  it  makes  a 
saving  of  at  least  one  day's  consump- 
tion in  every  week.  If  this  meal 
bread  were  in  general  use,  it  would 
be  a  saving  to  the  nation  of  nearly 
ten  millions  a  year.  Besides,  this 
bread  has  the  following  peculiar  pro- 
perty :  if  put  into  the  oven  and  baked 
for  twenty  minutes,  after  it  is  ten 
days  old,  it  will  appear  again  like 
new  bread. 

WHEAT  EARS.  To  roast  wheat 
ears  and  ortolans,  they  should  be 
spitted  sideways,  with  a  vine  leaf 
between  each.  Baste  them  with 
butter,  and  strew  them  with  bread 
crumbs  while  roasting.  Ten  or 
twelve  minutes  will  do  them.  Serve 
them  up  with  fried  bread  crumbs  in 
the  dish,  and  gravy  in  a  tureen. 

WHEY.     Cheese  whey  is  a  very 


WHI 


WHI 


wholesome  drink  for  weakly  persons, 
especially  when  the  cows  are  in  fresh 
pasture.  Tending  to  quench  thirst, 
and  to  promote  sleep,  it  is  well  adapt- 
ed to  feverish  constitutions.  It  is 
the  most  relaxing  and  diluting  of  all 
drinks,  dissolving  and  carrying  off 
the  salts,  and  is  a  powerful  remedy 
in  the  hot  scurvy. 

WHEY  BUTTER.  The  whey  is 
first  set  in  mugs,  to  acquire  a  suf- 
ficient degree  of  consistence  and 
sourness  for  churning,  either  by  the 
warmth  of  the  season,  or  by  a  fire, 
as  in  the  making  of  milk  butter. 
Sometimes  the  green  and  white  whey 
are  boiled  together,  and  turned  by 
a  little  sour  ale.  When  the  green 
whey  is  boiled  alone,  it  is  necessary 
to  keep  it  over  the  fire  about  half 
an  hour,  till  it  begins  to  break  and 
separate,  but  it  must  be  allowed  to 
simmer  only.  The  process  is  much 
the  same  as  in  milk  butter,  but  it 
will  keep  only  a  few  days,  and  does 
not  cut  so  firm  as  the  butter  which 
is  made  of  cream. 

WHIGS.  Mix  with  two  pounds 
of  fine  flour,  half  a  pound  of  sugar 
pounded  and  sifted,  and  an  ounce 
of  carraway  seeds.  Melt  half  a 
pound  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  milk  ; 
when  as  warm  as  new  milk,  put  to 
it  three  eggs,  leaving  out  one  white, 
and  a  spoonful  of  yeast.  Mix  them 
well  together,  and  let  the  paste  stand 
I  -  four  hours  to  rise.  Make  them  into 
-  whigs,  and  bake  them  on  buttered 
tins. — Another  way.  Rub  half  a 
pound  of  butter  into  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  flour,  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sugar,  a  very  little  salt, 
and  three  spoonfuls  of  new  yeast. 
Make  it  into  a  light  paste  with  warm 
milk,  let  it  stand  an  hour  to  rise, 
and  then  form  it  into  whigs.  Bake 
them  upon  sheets  of  tin  in  a  quick 
oven.  Carraway  seeds  may  be  add- 
ed if  preferred. —  Another  way 
Take  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  flour, 
dry  it  before  the  fire,  and  when  cold 
rub  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter,  and  six  ounces  of  sugar ; 
(No.  21.) 


mix  half  a  pint  of  yeast  that  is  not 
bitter,  with  warm  milk,  put  this  to 
the  flour  with  some  carraway  seeds  ; 
mix  all  together  to  a  light  dough, 
set  it  before  the  fire  to  rise,  then 
make  it  into  what  shape  you  please  ; 
bake  them  in  a  slack  oven.  You 
may  add  allspice  beat  fine,  instead 
of  carraways,  if  you  please. — Ano- 
ther way.  Take  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  flour,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
ale  yeast  to  half  a  pint  of  warm. milk, 
mix  these  together,  and  let  it  lie  by 
the  fire  half  an  hour  ;  then  work  in 
half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  half  a 
pound  of  fresh  butter  to  a  paste; 
mak6  them  up,  and  let  them  be  put 
into  a  quick  oven. 

WHIPT  CREAM.  Take  a  quart 
of  thick  cream,  the  whites  of  eight 
eggs  well  beaten,  with  half  a  pint  of 
sack  ;  mix  all  together,  and  sweeten 
it  to  your  taste,  with  double-refined 
sugar  ;  (you  may  perfume  it  if  you 
please,  with  a  little  musk,  or  amber- 
gris, tied  in  a  piece  of  mushn,  and 
steeped  a  little  while  in  the  cream) 
pare  a  lemon,  and  tie  some  of  the 
peel  in  the  middle  of  the  whisk,  then 
whip  up  the  cream,  take  off  the  froth 
with  a  spoon,  and  lay  it  in  the 
glasses,  or  basons.  This  does  well 
over  a  fine  tart. 

WHIPT  SYLLABUBS.  Put  some 
rich  cream  into  an  earthen  pot,  add 
some  white  wine,  lemon  juice,  and 
sugar  to  the  taste.  Mill  them  well 
together  with  a  chocolate  mill,  and 
as  the  froth  keeps  rising  take  it  off 
with  a  spoon,  and  put  it  into  sylla- 
bub glasses.  They  should  be  made 
the  day  before  they  are  to  be  used. 
Syllabubs  are  very  pretty  in  the 
summer  time  made  with  red  currant 
juice,  instead  of  lemon  juice. — Ano- 
ther way.  Take  a  quart  of  cream, 
boil  it,  and  let  it  stand  till  cold  ; 
then  take  a  pint  of  white  wine,  pare 
a  lemon  thin,  and  steep  the  peel  in 
the  wine  two  hours  before  you  use 
it ;  to  this  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  as  much  sugar  as  will  make  it 
very  sweet ;  put  all  together  into  a 

3q  481 


WHI 


W  HI 


howl,  and  whisk  it  one  way  till  it  is 
pretty  thick,  fill  the  glasses,  and 
keep  it  a  day  before  you  use  it.  It 
will  keep  good  for  three  or  four 
days.  Let  the  cream  be  full  mea- 
sure, and  the  wine  rather  less  ;  if  you 
like  it  perfumed,  put  in  a  grain  or 
two  of  ambergris. — Another  way.  To 
a  quart  of  thick  cream  put  half  a 
pint  of  sack,  the  juice  of  two  Se- 
ville oranges,  or  lemons,  grate  the 
peel  of  two  lemons,  and  add  half  a 
pound  of  double-refined  sugar  well 
pounded  ;  mix  a  little  sack  with  su- 
gar, and  put  it  into  some  of  the 
glasses,  and  red  wine  and  sugar  into 
others,  the  rest  fill  with  syll^ub 
only.  Then  whisk  your  cream  up 
very  well,  take  off  the  froth  with  a 
spoon,  and  fiU  the  glasses  carefully, 
as  full  as  they  will  hold.  Observe, 
that  this  sort  must  not  be  made  long 
before  they  are  used. 

WHITE  BREAD.  This  is  made 
the  same  as  household  bread,  ex- 
cept that  it  consists  of  fine  flour 
unmixed.  The  water  to  be  used 
should  be  lukewarm  in  summer,  and 
in  very  cold  weather  it  must  be  hot, 
but  not  so  as  to  scald  the  yeast. 
Bricks  are  made  by  moulding  the 
loaves  long  instead  of  round,  and 
cutting  the  sides  in  several  places 
before  they  are  put  into  the  oven. 

WHITE  CAKES.  Dry  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  rub  into  it  a  very 
little  pounded  sugar,  one  ounce  of 
butter,  an  egg,  a  few  carraways, 
and  as  much  milk  and  water  as  will 
make  it  into  a  paste.  Roll  it  thin, 
cut  it  into  little  cakes  with  a  wine 
glass,  or  the  top  of  a  canister,  and 
bake  them  fifteen  minutes  on  tin 
plates. 

WHITE  CAUDLE.  Boil  four 
spoonfuls  of  oatmeal  in  two  quarts 
of  water,  with  a  blade  or  two  of 
mace,  and  a  piece  of  lemon  peel ; 
stir  it  often,  and  let  it  boil  a  full 
quarter  of  an  hour,  then  strain  it 
through  a  sieve  for  use  ;  when  you 
use  it,  grate  in  some  nutmeg,  sweet- 
en it  to  your  palate,  and  add  what 
482 


white  wine  you  think  proper :  if  it  i» 
not  for  a  sick  person,  you  may 
squeeze  in  a  little  lemon  juice. 

WHITE  CERATE.  Take  four 
ounces  of  olive  oil,  half  an  ounce 
of  spermaceti,  and  four  ounces  of 
white  wax.  Put  them  into  an 
earthen  pipkin,  and  stir  the  mix- 
ture with  a  stick  till  it  is  quite 
cold. 

WHITE  GRAVY.  Boil  in  a 
quart  of  water  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  veal,  from  the  knuckle  or  scrag 
end  of  the  neck.  Add  a  small  onion, 
a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  a  blade  of 
mace,  a  little  whole  pepper  and  salt. 
After  an  hour's  simmering  over  the 
fire,  strain  off"  the  gravy,  and  it  is 
ready  for  use. 

WHITE  GRAVY  FOR  SOUPS. 
To  a  few  slices  of  lean  ham,  add 
a  knuckle  of  veal  cut  in  pieces,  some 
turnips,  parsnips,  leeks,  onions,  and 
celery.  Put  them  all  into  a  stewpan 
with  two  quarts  of  water,  and  let  it 
simmer  till  the  meat  is  nearly  ten- 
der, without  allowing  it  to  colour. 
Add  to  this  half  as  much  clear  beef 
gravy,  and  boil  it  an  hour,  skimming 
off'  the  fat  very  clean.  Strain  it, 
and  set  it  by  for  use. 

WHITE  HERRINGS.  If  good, 
their  gills  are  of  a  fine  red,  and  the 
eyes  bright ;  as  is  likewise  the  whole 
fish,  which  must  be  stiflf  and  firm. 
Having  scaled,  drawn,  and  cleaned 
them,  dust  them  with  flour,  and  fry 
them  of  a  light  brown.  Plain  or 
melted  butter  for  sauce. 

WHITE  LEAD.  White  oxide  of 
lead  is  often  adulterated  by  the  car- 
bonate of  lime.  To  detect  this  pour 
four  drams  of  pure  acetous  acid, 
over  a  dram  of  the  suspected  oxidfe. 
This  will  dissolve  both  oxide  and 
chalk  ;  but  if  a  few  drops  of  a  solu- 
tion of  oxalic  acid  be  now  poured 
in,  a  very  abundant  white  precipi- 
tate of  oxalate  of  lime  will  take 
place. 

WHITE  PAINT.  An  excellent 
substitute  for  white  oil  paint  may 
be  made  of  fresh  curds  bruised  fine. 


WHI 


WHI 


and  kneaded  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  slacked  lime.  The  mixture  is  to 
be  well  stirred,  without  any  water, 
and  it  will  produce  an  excellent 
white  paint  for  inside  work.  As  it 
dries  very  quickly,  it  should  be  used 
as  soon  as  made  ;  and  if  two  coats 
be  laid  on,  it  may  afterwards  be  po- 
lished with  a  woollen  cloth  till  it  be- 
com^es  as  bright  as  varnish.  If  ap- 
plied to  places  exposed  to  moisture, 
the  painting  should  be  rubbed  over 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  which  will 
render  it  as  durable  as  the  best  of 
oil  painting.  No  kind  of  painting 
can  be  so  cheap  ;  and  as  it  dries 
speedily,  two  coats  of  it  may  be  laid 
on  in  a  day  and  polished,  and  no 
offensive  smell  will  arise  from  it. 

WHITE  POT.  The  antient  way 
of  making  a  white  pot  is  to  put  the 
yolks  of  four  or  five  eggs  well  beaten 
to  a  pint  of  cream,  adding  some 
pulps  of  apples,  sugar,  spices,  and 
sippets  of  white  bread.  It  may  be 
baked  either  in  a  dish,  or  in  a  crust. 
— Another  way.  Beat  eight  eggs, 
leaving  out  four  whites,  with  a  little 
rose  water ;  strain  them  to  two  quarts 
of  new  milk,  and  a  small  nutmeg 
grated,  and  sugar  to  your  taste  ;  cut, 
a  French  roll  in  thin  slices,  and  lay 
in  the  bottom  of  a  soup  dish  (after 
buttering  it)  then  pour  over  your 
milk  and  eggs,  and  bake  it  in  a  slow 
oven. 

WHITE  PUDDINGS.  Pour  two 
pints  and  a  half  of  scalding  hot  milk 
upon  half  a  pound  of  Naples  biscuits, 
or  bread  ;  let  it  stand  uncovered, 
and  when  well  soaked,  bruise  the 
bread  very  fine.  Add  half  a  pound 
of  almonds  well  beaten  with  orange- 
flower  water,  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar,  a  pound  of  beef  suet 
or  marrow  shred  fine,  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  salt,  ten  yolks  of  eggs 
and  five  whites.  Mix  the  whole 
thoroughly  together,  and  put  it  into 

i        the  skins  well  prepared,  filling  them 
but  half  full,  and  tying  them  at  pro- 

i        pel    distances   like  sausages.     The 


skins  must  be  carefully  cleaned,  and 
laid  in  rose  water  some  hours  before 
they  are  used.  Currants  may  be  used 
instead  of  almonds,  if  preferred. 

WHITE  HOG'S  PUDDINGS. 
When  the  skins  have  been  well  soak- 
ed and  cleaned,  rinse  and  soak  them 
all  night  in  rose  water,  and  put  into 
them  the  following  preparation.  Mix 
half  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds 
cut  into  seven  or  eight  parts,  with  a 
pound  of  grated  bread,  two  pounds 
of  marrow  or  rich  suet,  a  pound  of 
currants,  some  beaten  cinnamon, 
cloves,  mace,  and  nutmeg  ;  a  quart 
of  cream,  the  yolks  of  six  and  whites 
of  two  eggs,  a  little  orange-flower 
water,  a  little  fine  Lisbon  sugar,  and 
some  lemon  peel  and  citron  sliced, 
and  half  fill  the  skins.  To  know 
whether  it  be  sweet  enough,  warm  a 
little  in  a  panikin.  Much  care  must 
be  taken  in  boiling,  to  prevent  the 
puddings  from  bursting.  Prick  them 
with  a  small  fork  as  they  rise,  and 
boil  them  in  milk  and  water.  Lay 
them  in  a  table  cloth  till  cold. 

WHITE  ONION  SAUCE.  Peel 
half  a  dozen  white  Spanish  onions, 
cut  them  in  half,  and  lay  them  in  a 
pan  of  spring  water  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour.  Boil  them  an  hour,  or  till 
quite  tender,  drain  them  well  on  a 
hair  sieve,  and  then  chop  and  bruise 
them  fine.  Put  them  into  a  clean 
saucepan  with  flour  and  butter,  half 
a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  some 
cream  or  good  milk.  Stir  it  till  it 
boils,  rub  the  whole  through  a  sieve, 
adding  milk  or  creani  to  make  it  of 
a  proper  thickness.  This  is  the 
usual  sauce  for  boiled  rabbits,  mut- 
ton, or  tripe ;  but  there  requires 
plenty  of  it. 

WHITE  SAUCE.  This  favourite 
sauce  is  equally  adapted  to  fowls, 
fricassee,  rabbits,  white  meat,  fish, 
and  vegetables  ;  and  it  is  seldom  ne- 
cessary to  purchase  any  fresh  meat 
to  make  it,  as  the  proportion  of  that 
flavour  is  but  small.  The  liquor 
in  which  fowls,  veal,  or  rabbit  have 
483 


WHI 


WHI 


been  boiled,  will  answer  the  pur- 
pose ;  or  the  broth  of  whatever  meat 
happens  to  be  in  the  house,  such  as 
necks  of  chickens,  raw  or  dressed 
veal.  Stew  with  a  little  water  any 
of  these,  with  a  bit  of  lemon  peel, 
some  sliced  onion,  some  white  pep- 
percorns, a  little  pounded  mace  or 
nutmeg,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 
Keep  it  on  the  fire  till  the  flavour  is 
good;  then  strain  it,  and  add  a 
little  good  cream,  a  piece  of  butter, 
a  very  little  flour,  and  salt  to  your 
taste.  A  squeeze  of  lemon  may  be 
added  after  the  sauce  is  taken  off^ 
the  fire,  shaking  it  well.  Yolk  of 
egg  is  often  used  in  fricassee,  cream 
is  better,  as  the  former  is  apt  to 
curdle. 

WHITE  SOUP.  Take  a  scrag 
of  mutton,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  after 
cutting  off"  as  much  meat  as  will 
make  collops,  two  or  three  shank 
bones  of  mutton  nicely  cleaned,  and 
a  quarter  of  very  fine  undressed  lean 
gammon  of  bacon.  Add  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  a  piece  of  fresh  lemon 
peel,  two  or  three  onions,  three 
blades  of  mace,  and  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  white  pepper.  Boil  all  in 
three  quarts  of  water,  till  the  meat 
falls  quite  to  pieces.  Next  day  take 
oflf  the  fat,  clear  the  jelly  from  the 
sediment,  and  put  it  into  a  nice  tin 
saucepan.  If  maccaroni  be  used,  it 
should  be  added  soon  enough  to  get 
perfectly  tender,  after  soaking  in 
cold  water.  Vermicelli  may  be  add- 
ed after  the  thickening,  as  it  requires 
less  time  to  do.  Prepare  the  thick- 
ening beforehand  thus  :  blanch  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds, 
and  beat  them  to  a  paste  in  a  marble 
mortar,  with  a  spoonful  of  water  to 
prevent  their  oiling.  Then  mince  a 
large  slice  of  cold  veal  or  chicken, 
and  beat  it  with  a  piece  of  stale 
white  bread  ;  add  all  this  to  a  pint 
of  thick  cream,  a  bit  of  fresh  lemon 
peel,  and  a  blade  of  pounded  mace. 
Boil  it  a  few  minutes,  add  to  it  a  pint 
of  soup,  and  strain  and  pulp  it 
484 


through  a  coarse  sieve.  This  thick- 
ening is  then  fit  for  putting  to  the 
rest,  which  should  boil  for  half  an 
hour  afterwards. — To  make  a  plainer 
white  soup,  boil  a  small  knuckle  of 
veal,  till  the  liquor  is  reduced  to 
three  pints.  Add  seasoning  as  above, 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  milk. 
Two  spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  a  little 
ground  rice,  will  give  it  a  proper 
thickness.  The  meat  and  the  soup 
may  both  be  served  together. — 
Another.  Take  a  scrag  or  knuckle 
of  veal,  slices  of  undressed  gammon 
of  bacon,  onions,  mace,  and  simmer 
them  in  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
till  it  is  very  strong.  Lower  it  with 
a  good  beef  broth  made  the  day  be- 
fore, and  stew  it  till  the  meat  is  done 
to  rags.  Add  cream,  vermicelli,  a 
roll,  and  almonds. 

WHITE  WINE  WHEY.  Set  on 
the  fire  half  a  pint  of  new  milk ;  the 
moment  it  boils  up,  pour  in  as  much 
sound  raisin  wine  as  will  completely 
turn  it,  and  until  it  looks  clear.  Let 
it  boil  up,  then  set  the  saucepan 
aside  till  the  curd  subsides,  and  do 
not  stir  it.  Pour  the  whey  oflf,  add 
to  it  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and 
a  little  lump  sugar.  The  whey  will 
thus  be  cleared  of  milky  particles, 
and  may  be  made  to  any  degree  of 
weakness 

WHITINGS.  These  may  be  had 
almost  at  any  time,  but  are  chiefly 
in  season  during  the  first  three 
months  of  the  year.  In  choosing 
them,  the  firmness  of  the  body  and 
fins  is  chiefly  to  be  looked  to  ;  and 
in  places  where  there  is  no  regular 
supply  of  fish,  it  will  be  found  an 
accommodation  to  dry  them  for 
keeping.  The  largest  are  best  for 
this  purpose.  Take  out  the  gills, 
the  eyes,  and  the  entrails,  and  re- 
move the  blood  from  the  backbone. 
Wipe  them  dry,  salt  the  inside,  and 
lay  them  on  a  board  for  the  night. 
Hang  them  up  in  a  dry  place,  and 
after  three  or  four  days  they  will  be 
fit  to  eat.      When  to  be  dressed^ 


WIL 


WfL 


skin  and  rub  them  over  with  egg, 
and  cover  them  with  bread  crumbs. 
Lay  them  before  the  fire,  baste  with 
butter  till  sufficiently  browned,  and 
serve  them  with  egg  sauce. 

WHITLOWS.  As  soon  as  the 
disorder  is  apparent,  the  finger  af- 
fected 13  to  be  plunged  into  warm 
water,  or  the  steam  of  boiling  water 
may  be  applied  to  it.  The  applica- 
tion must  be  very  frequently  repeat- 
ed the  first  day,  and  the  complaint 
will  soon  be  dispersed.  Unfortu- 
nately however  it  is  too  generally 
supposed,  that  such  slight  attacks 
can  have  only  slight  consequences, 
and  hence  they  are  too  apt  to  be 
neglected  till  the  complaint  has  con- 
siderably increased.  But  in  this 
state  no  time  should  be  lost  in  re- 
sorting to  skilful  advice,  as  the  dan- 
ger attending  these  small  tumours  is 
much  greater  than  is  usually  ima- 
gined. 

WHOLE  RICE  PANCAKES. 
Stew  half  a  pound  of  whole  rice  in 
water  till  it  is  very  tender,  and  let 
it  stand  in  a  basin  to  cool.  Break 
it  small,  put  to  it  half  a  pint  of 
scalded  cream,  half  a  pound  of  cla- 
rified butter,  a  handful  of  flour,  a 
little  nutmeg  and  salt,  and  five  eggs 
well  beaten.  Stir  these  well  toge- 
ther, and  fry  them  in  butter  or  lard. 
Serve  them  up  with  sugar  sifted 
over  them,  and  a  Seville  orange  or 
lemon  cut  and  laid  round  the  dish. 
This  preparation  may  be  made  into 
a  pudding,  either  baked  or  boiled, 
and  with  currants  added  or  not,  as 
approved.  Three  quarters  of  an 
hour  will  bake  it,  and  an  hour  will 
boil  it. 

WHOLE  RICE  PUDDING.  Stew 
very  gently  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
whole  rice,  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
new  milk.  When  the  rice  is  tender, 
pour  it  into  a  basin,  stir  in  a  piece 
of  butter,  and  let  it  stand  till  quite 
cool.  Then  put  in  four  eggs,  a  little 
salt,  some  nutmeg  and  sugar.  Boil 
it  an  hour  in  a  basin  well  buttered. 

WILD  FOWL.     Season  with  salt 


and  pepper,  and  put  a  piece  of  but- 
ter into  each  ;  but  the  flavour  is  best 
preserved  without  stuffing.  To  take 
off"  the  fishy  taste  which  wild  fowl 
sometimes  have,  put  an  onion,  salt, 
and  hot  water,  into  the  dripping 
pan,  and  baste  them  with  this  for 
the  first  ten  minutes :  then  take 
away  the  pan,  and  baste  constantly 
with  butter.  Wild  fowl  require  much 
les3  dressing  than  tame :  they  should 
be  served  of  a  fine  colour,  and  well 
frothed  up.  A  rich  brown  gravy 
should  be  sent  in  the  dish  ;  and  when 
the  breast  is  cut  into  slices,  before 
taking  off"  the  bone,  a  squeeze  of 
lemon,  with  pepper  and  salt,  is  a 
great  improvement  to  the  flavour. 

WILD  DUCKS.  A  wild  duck, 
or  a  widgeon,  will  require  twenty  or 
twenty-five  minutes  roasting,  ac- 
cording to  the  size.  A  teal,  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  ;  and  other 
birds  of  this  kind,  in  proportion  to 
their  size,  a  longer  or  a  shorter  time. 
Baste  them  with  butter,  and  take 
them  up  with  the  gravy  in,  sprinkling 
a  little  over  them  before  they  are 
quite  done.  Serve  them  up  with 
shalot  sauce  in  a  boat,  or  with  good 
gravy,  and  lemons  cut  in  quarters. 

WILTSHIRE  BACON.  The  way 
to  cure  Wiltshire  bacon  is  to  sprin- 
kle the  flitch  with  salt,  and  let  the 
blood  drain  oflf  for  twenty-four  hours. 
Then  mix  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
coarse  sugar,  the  same  quantity  of 
bay  salt,  not  quite  so  much  as  half 
a  pound  of  saltpetre,  and  a  pound 
of  common  salt.  Rub  this  mixture 
well  on  the  bacon,  turning  it  every 
day  for  a  month  :  then  hang  it  to 
dry,  and  afterwards  smoke  it  ten 
days.  The  quantity  of  salts  above 
mentioned  is  sufficient  for  the  whole 
hog. 

WILTSHIRE  CHEESE.  This 
is  made  of  new  milk,  a  little  lowered 
with  water  and  skim  milk.  The 
curd  is  first  broken  with  the  hand 
and  dish,  care  being  taken  to  let  the 
whey  run  off*  gradually,  to  prevent 
its  carrying  away  with  it  the  fat  of 
485 


#IN 


WIN 


the  cowl.  For  thin  cheese  the  curd 
is  not  broken  so  fine  as  in  Glouces- 
tershire ;  for  thick  cheese  it  is 
crushed  finer  still.  The  whey  is 
poured  oft'  as  it  rises,  and  the  curd 
pressed  down.  The  mass  is  then 
pared  down  three  or  four  times 
over,  in  slices  about  an  inch  thick, 
in  order  to  extract  all  the  whey  from 
it,  and  then  it  is  pressed  and  scald- 
ed as  before.  After  separating  the 
whey,  the  curd  is  sometimes  broken 
again,  and  salted  in  the  cowl ;  and 
at  others  it  is  taken  warm  out  of  the 
liquor,  and  salted  in  the  vat.  Thin 
cheeses  are  placed  in  one  layer, 
with  a  small  handful  of  salt ;  and 
thick  ones  in  two  layers,  with  two 
handfuls  of  salt;  the  salt  being 
spread  and  rubbed  uniformly  among 
the  curd. 

WINDSOR  BEANS.  These 
should  be  boiled  in  plenty  of  water, 
with  a  little  salt,  and  be  put  in  when 
the  water  boils.  Serve  them  up  with 
boiled  bacon,  and  parsley  and  but- 
ter in  a  boat. 

WINDSOR  BEANS  FRICAS- 
SEED. When  grown  large,  but  not 
mealy.,  boil,  blanch,  and  lay  them  in 
a  white  sauce  previously  heated  up. 
Warm  them  through  in  the  sauce, 
and  serve  them  up.  No  beans  but 
what  are  of  a  fine  green  should  be 
used  for  this  dish. 

WINDSOR  PUDDING.  Shred 
half  a  pound  of  suet  very  fine,  grate 
into  it  half  a  pound  of  French  roll, 
a  little  nutmeg,  and  the  rind  of  a 
lemon.  Add  to  these  half  a  pound 
of  chopped  apple,  half  a  pound  of 
currants  clean  washed  and  fried, 
half  a  pound  of  jar  raisins  stoned 
and  chopped,  a  glass  of  rich  sweet 
wine,  and  five  eggs  well  beaten,  with 
a  little  salt.  Mix  all  thoroughly  to- 
gether, and  boil  it  in  a  basin  or 
mould  for  three  hours.  Sift  fine 
sugar  over  it  when  sent  to  table,  and 
pour  white  wine  sauce  into  the  dish. 

WINDSOR  SOAP.  Cut  the  best 
white  soap  into  thin  slices,  melt  it 
over  a  slow  fire,  and  scent  it  with 
486 


oil  of  carraway,  or  any  other  agree- 
able perfume.  Shaving  boxes  may 
then  be  filled  with  the  melted  soap, 
or  it  may  be  poured  into  a  small 
drawer  or  any  other  mould  ;  and 
after  it  has  stood  a  few  days  to  dry, 
it  may  be  cut  into  square  pieces 
ready  for  use. 

WINE.  The  moderate  use  of 
wine  is  highly  conducive  to  health, 
especially  in  weak  and  languid  ha- 
bits, and  in  convalescents  who  are 
recovering  from  the  attacks  of  ma- 
lignant fevers.  Hence  it  forms  an 
extensive  article  of  commerce,  and 
immense  quantities  are  consumed  in 
this  country.  But  nothing  is  more 
capable  of  being  adulterated,  or  of 
producing  more  pernicious  eff'ects 
on  the  human  constitution,  and 
therefore  it  requires  the  strictest  at- 
tention. A  few  simple  means  only 
will  be  sufficient  to  detect  such 
adulterations,  and  to  prevent  their 
fatal  consequences.  If  new  white 
wine,  for  example,  be  of  a  sweetish 
flavour,  and  leave  a  certain  astrin- 
gency  on  the  tongue ;  if  it  has  an 
unusually  high  colour,  dispropor- 
tionate to  its  nominal  age  and  real 
strength  ;  or  if  it  has  a  strong  pun- 
gent taste,  resembling  that  of  brandy 
or  other  ardent  spirits,  such  liquor 
may  be  considered  as  adulterated. 
When  old  wine  presents  either  a 
very  pale  or  a  very  deep  colour,  or 
possesses  a  very  tart  and  astringent 
taste,  and  deposits  a  thick  crust  on 
the  sides  or  bottom  of  glass  vessels, 
it  has  then  probably  been  coloured 
with  some  foreign  substance.  This 
may  easily  be  detected  by  passing 
the  liquor  through  filtering  paper, 
when  the  colouring  ingredients  will 
remain  on  the  surface.  The  fraud 
may  also  be  discovered  by  filling  a 
small  vial  with  the  suspected  wine, 
and  closing  its  mouth  with  the  finger : 
the  bottle  is  then  to  be  inverted, 
and  immersed  in  a  basin  of  clear 
water.  The  finger  being  withdrawn, 
the  tinging  or  adulterating  matter 
will  pass  into  the  water,  so  that  the 


W  IN 


^IN 


p  former  may  be  observed  sinking  to 
the  bottom  by  its  own  weight.  Wines 
becoming  tart  or  sour,  are  frequently 
mixed  with  the  juice  of  carrots  and 
turnips ;  and  if  this  do  not  recorer 
the  sweetness  to  a  sufficient  degree, 
alum  or  the  sugar  of  lead  is  some- 
times added  ;  but  which  cannot  fail 
to  be  productive  of  the  worst  effects, 
and  will  certainly  operate  as  slow 
poison.  To  detect  the  alum,  let  the 
suspected  liquor  be  mixed  with  a 
little  lime  water.  At  the  end  of  ten 
or  twelve  hours  the  composition  must 
be  filtered,  and  if  crystals  be  formed, 
it  contains  no  alum.  But  if  it  be 
adulterated,  the  sediment  will  split 
into  small  segments,  which  will  ad- 
here to  the  filtering  paper  on  which 
it  is  spread.  In  order  to  detect  the 
litharge  or  sugar  of  lead,  a  few  drops 
of  the  solution  of  yellow  orpiment 
and  quicklime  should  be  poured  into 
a  glass  of  wine.  If  the  colour  of  the 
liquor  change,  and  become  succes- 
sively dark  red,  black  or  brown,  it  is 
an  evident  proof  of  its  being  adul- 
terated with  lead.  As  orpiment  is 
poisonous,  it  would  be  better  to  use 
a  fe\y  drops  of  vitriolic  acid  for  this 
purpose,  which  should  be  introduced 
into  a  small  quantity  of  the  suspected 
liquor.  This  will  cause  .the  lead  to 
sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  glass,  in 
the  form  of  a  white  powder.  A  so- 
lution of  hepatic  gas  in  distilled  wa- 
ter, if  added  to  wine  sophisticated 
with  lead,  will  produce  a  black  se- 
diment, and  thus  discover  the  small- 
est quantity  of  that  poisonous  metal ; 
but  in  pure  wine,  no  precipitation 
will  take  place.  The  following  pre- 
paration has  been  proved  to  be  a 
sufficient  test  for  adulterated  wine  or 
cider.  Let  one  dram  of  the  dry  liver 
of  sulphur,  and  two  drams  of  the 
cream  of  tartar,  be  shaken  in  two 
ounces  of  distilled  water,  till  the 
whole  become  saturated  with  hepatic 
gas :  the  mixture  is  then  to  be  fil- 
tered through  blotting  paper,  and 
kept  in  a  vial  closely  corked.  In 
or<ler  to  try  the  purity  of  wine,  about 


twenty  drops  of  this  test  are  to  be 
poured  into  a  small  glass :  if  the  wine 
only  become  turbid  with  white  clouds, 
and  a  similar  sediment  be  deposited, 
it  is  then  not  impregnated  with  any 
metallic  ingredients.  But  if  it  turn 
black  or  muddy,  its  colour  approach 
to  a  deep  red,  and  its  taste  be  at 
first  sweet,  and  then  astringent,  the 
liquor  certainly  contains  the  sugar, 
or  other  pernicious  preparation  of 
lead.  The  presence  of  iron  is  indi- 
cated by  the  wine  acquiring  a  dark 
blue  coat,  after  the  test  is  put  in, 
similar  to  that  of  pale  ink ;  and  if 
there  be  any  particles  of  copper  or 
verdigris,  a  blackish  grey  sediment 
will  be  formed.  A  small  portion  of 
sulphur  is  always  mixed  with  white 
wines,  in  order  to  preserve  them  ; 
but  if  too  large  a  quantity  be  em- 
ployed, the  wine  thus  impregnated 
becomes  injurious.  Sulphur  how- 
ever may  easily  be  detected,  for  if  a 
piece  of  an  egg  shell,  or  of  silver,  be 
immersed  in  the  wine,  it  instantly 
acquires  a  black  hue.  Quicklime  is 
also  mixed  with  wine,  for  imparting 
a  beautiful  red  colour.  Its  presence 
may  easily  be  ascertained  by  suffer- 
ing a  little  wine  to  stand  in  a  glass 
for  two  or  three  days  ;  when  the 
lime,  held  in  solution,  will  appear 
on  the  surface  in  the  form  of  a  thin 
pellicle  or  crust.  The  least  hurtful 
but  most  common  adulteration  of 
wine,  is  that  of  mixing  it  with  water, 
which  may  be  detected  by  throwing 
into  it  a  small  piece  of  quicklime. 
If  it  slack  or  dissolve  the  lime,  the 
wine  must  have  been  diluted  ;  but  if 
the  contrary,  which  will  seldom  be 
the  case,  the  liquor  may  be  consi- 
dered as  genuine. 

WINE  COOLED.  The  best  way 
of  cooling  wine  or  other  liquors  in 
hot  weather,  is  to  dip  a  cloth  in  cold 
water,  and  wrap  it  round  the  bottle 
two  or  three  times,  then  place  it  in 
the  sun.  The  process  should  be  re- 
newed once  or  twice. 

WINE    POSSET.      Boil    some 
slices  of  white  bread  in  a  quart  of 
/<P7 


WI  N 


WIN 


the  cowl.  For  thin  cheese  the  curd 
is  not  broken  so  fine  as  in  Glouces- 
tershire; for  thick  cheese  it  is 
crushed  finer  still.  The  whey  is 
poured  oft'  as  it  rises,  and  the  curd 
pressed  down.  The  mass  is  then 
pared  down  three  or  four  times 
over,  in  slices  about  an  inch  thick, 
in  order  to  extract  all  the  whey  from 
it,  and  then  it  is  pressed  and  scald- 
ed as  before.  After  separating  the 
whey,  the  curd  is  sometimes  broken 
again,  and  salted  in  the  cowl ;  and 
at  others  it  is  taken  warm  out  of  the 
liquor,  and  salted  in  the  vat.  Thin 
cheeses  are  placed  in  one  layer, 
with  a  small  handful  of  salt ;  and 
thick  ones  in  two  layers,  with  two 
handfuls  of  salt;  the  salt  being 
spread  and  rubbed  uniformly  among 
the  curd. 

WINDSOR  BEANS.  These 
should  be  boiled  in  plenty  of  water, 
with  a  little  salt,  and  be  put  in  when 
the  water  boils.  Serve  them  up  with 
boiled  bacon,  and  parsley  and  but- 
ter in  a  boat. 

WINDSOR  BEANS  FRICAS- 
SEED. When  grown  large,  but  not 
mealy.,  boil,  blanch,  and  lay  them  in 
a  white  sauce  previously  heated  up. 
Warm  them  through  in  the  sauce, 
and  serve  them  up.  No  beans  but 
what  are  of  a  fine  green  should  be 
used  for  this  dish. 

WINDSOR  PUDDING.  Shred 
half  a  pound  of  suet  very  fine,  grate 
into  it  half  a  pound  of  French  roll, 
a  little  nutmeg,  and  the  rind  of  a 
lemon.  Add  to  these  half  a  pound 
of  chopped  apple,  half  a  pound  of 
currants  clean  washed  and  fried, 
half  a  pound  of  jar  raisins  stoned 
and  chopped,  a  glass  of  rich  sweet 
wine,  and  five  eggs  well  beaten,  with 
a  little  salt.  Mix  all  thoroughly  to- 
gether, and  boil  it  in  a  basin  or 
mould  for  three  hours.  Sift  fine 
sugar  over  it  when  sent  to  table,  and 
pour  white  wine  sauce  into  the  dish. 

WINDSOR  SOAP.  Cut  the  best 
white  soap  into  thin  slices,  melt  it 
over  a  slow  fire,  and  scent  it  with 
48« 


oil  of  carraway,  or  any  other  agree- 
able perfume.  Shaving  boxes  may 
then  be  filled  with  the  melted  soap, 
or  it  may  be  poured  into  a  small 
drawer  or  any  other  mould  ;  and 
after  it  has  stood  a  few  days  to  dry, 
it  may  be  cut  into  square  pieces 
ready  for  use. 

WINE.  The  moderate  use  of 
wine  is  highly  conducive  to  health, 
especially  in  weak  and  languid  ha- 
bits, and  in  convalescents  who  are 
recovering  from  the  attacks  of  ma- 
lignant fevers.  Hence  it  forms  an 
extensive  article  of  commerce,  and 
immense  quantities  are  consumed  in 
this  country.  But  nothing  is  more 
capable  of  being  adulterated,  or  of 
producing  more  pernicious  eff'ects 
on  the  human  constitution,  and 
therefore  it  requires  the  strictest  at- 
tention. A  few  simple  means  only 
will  be  sufticient  to  detect  such 
adulterations,  and  to  prevent  their 
fatal  consequences.  If  new  white 
wine,  for  example,  be  of  a  sweetish 
flavour,  and  leave  a  certain  astrin- 
gency  on  the  tongue ;  if  it  has  an 
unusually  high  colour,  dispropor- 
tionate to  its  nominal  age  and  real 
strength  ;  or  if  it  has  a  strong  pun- 
gent taste,  resembling  that  of  brandy 
or  other  ardent  spirits,  such  liquor 
may  be  considered  as  adulterated. 
When  old  wine  presents  either  a 
very  pale  or  a  very  deep  colour,  or 
possesses  a  very  tart  and  astringent 
taste,  and  deposits  a  thick  crust  on 
the  sides  or  bottom  of  glass  vessels, 
it  has  then  probably  been  coloured 
with  some  foreign  substance.  This 
may  easily  be  detected  by  passing 
the  liquor  through  filtering  paper, 
when  the  colouring  ingredients  will 
remain  on  the  surface.  The  fraud 
may  also  be  discovered  by  filling  a 
small  vial  with  the  suspected  wine, 
and  closing  its  mouth  with  the  finger : 
the  bottle  is  then  to  be  inverted, 
and  immersed  in  a  basin  of  clear 
water.  The  finger  being  withdrawn, 
the  tinging  or  adulrerating  matter 
will  pass  into  the  water,  so  that  the 


W  IN 


^IN 


0  former  may  be  observed  sinking  to 
the  bottom  by  its  own  weight.  Wines 
becoming  tart  or  sour,  are  frequently 
mixed  with  the  juice  of  carrots  and 
turnips ;  and  if  this  do  not  recoTer 
the  sweetness  to  a  sufficient  degree, 
alum  or  the  sugar  of  lead  is  some- 
times added  ;  but  which  cannot  fail 
to  be  productive  of  the  worst  effects, 
and  will  certainly  operate  as  slow 
poison.  To  detect  the  alum,  let  the 
suspected  liquor  be  mixed  with  a 
little  lime  water.  At  the  end  of  ten 
or  twelve  hours  the  composition  must 
be  filtered,  and  if  crystals  be  formed, 
it  contains  no  alum.  But  if  it  be 
adulterated,  the  sediment  will  split 
into  small  segments,  which  will  ad- 
here to  the  filtering  paper  on  which 
it  is  spread.  In  order  to  detect  the 
litharge  or  sugar  of  lead,  a  few  drops 
of  the  solution  of  yellow  orpiment 
and  quicklime  should  be  poured  into 
a  glass  of  wine.  If  the  colour  of  the 
liquor  change,  and  become  succes- 
sively dark  red,  black  or  brown,  it  is 
an  evident  proof  of  its  being  adul- 
terated with  lead.  As  orpiment  is 
poisonous,  it  would  be  better  to  use 
a  few  drops  of  vitriolic  acid  for  this 
purpose,  which  should  be  introduced 
into  a  small  quantity  of  the  suspected 
liquor.  This  will  cause  .the  lead  to 
sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  glass,  in 
the  form  of  a  white  powder.  A  so- 
lution of  hepatic  gas  in  distilled  wa- 
ter, if  added  to  wine  sophisticated 
with  lead,  will  produce  a  black  se- 
diment, and  thus  discover  the  small- 
est quantity  of  that  poisonous  metal ; 
but  in  pure  wine,  no  precipitation 
will  take  place.  The  following  pre- 
paration has  been  proved  to  be  a 
sufficient  test  for  adulterated  wine  or 
cider.  Let  one  dram  of  the  dry  liver 
of  sulphur,  and  two  drams  of  the 
cream  of  tartar,  be  shaken  in  two 
ounces  of  distilled  water,  till  the 
whole  become  saturated  with  hepatic 
gas :  the  mixture  is  then  to  be  fil- 
tered through  blotting  paper,  and 
kept  in  a  vial  closely  corked.  In 
or<ler  to  try  the  purity  of  wine,  about 


twenty  drops  of  this  test  are  to  be 
poured  into  a  small  glass ;  if  the  wine 
only  become  turbid  with  white  clouds, 
and  a  similar  sediment  be  deposited, 
it  is  then  not  impregnated  with  any 
metallic  ingredients.  But  if  it  turn 
black  or  muddy,  its  colour  approach 
to  a  deep  red,  and  its  taste  be  at 
first  sweet,  and  then  astringent,  the 
liquor  certainly  contains  the  sugar, 
or  other  pernicious  preparation  of 
lead.  The  presence  of  iron  is  indi- 
cated by  the  wine  acquiring  a  dark 
blue  coat,  after  the  test  is  put  in, 
similar  to  that  of  pale  ink  ;  and  if 
there  be  any  particles  of  copper  or 
verdigris,  a  blackish  grey  sediment 
will  be  formed.  A  small  portion  of 
sulphur  is  always  mixed  with  white 
wines,  in  order  to  preserve  them  ; 
but  if  too  large  a  quantity  be  em- 
ployed, the  wine  thus  impregnated 
becomes  injurious.  Sulphur  how- 
ever may  easily  be  detected,  for  if  a 
piece  of  an  egg  shell,  or  of  silver,  be 
immersed  in  the  wine,  it  instantly 
acquires  a  black  hue.  Quicklime  is 
also  mixed  with  wine,  for  imparting 
a  beautiful  red  colour.  Its  presence 
may  easily  be  ascertained  by  suffer- 
ing a  little  wine  to  stand  in  a  glass 
for  two  or  three  days ;  when  the 
lime,  held  in  solution,  will  appear 
on  the  surface  in  the  form  of  a  thin 
pellicle  or  crust.  The  least  hurtful 
but  most  common  adulteration  of 
wine,  is  that  of  mixing  it  with  water, 
which  may  be  detected  by  throwing 
into  it  a  small  piece  of  quicklime. 
If  it  slack  or  dissolve  the  lime,  the 
wine  must  have  been  diluted  ;  but  if 
the  contrary,  which  will  seldom  be 
the  case,  the  liquor  may  be  consi- 
dered as  genuine. 

WINE  COOLED.  The  best  way 
of  cooling  wine  or  other  liquors  in 
hot  weather,  is  to  dip  a  cloth  in  cold 
water,  and  wrap  it  round  the  bottle 
two  or  three  times,  then  place  it  in 
the  sun.  The  process  should  be  re- 
newed once  or  twice. 

WINE    POSSET.      Boil     some 
slices  of  white  bread  in  a  quart  of 
/<P7 


Wl  N 


WOO 


milk.  When  quite  soft,  take  it  off 
the  fire,  grate  in  half  a  nutmeg,  and 
a  Httle  sugar.  Pour  it  out,  and  add 
by  degrees  a  pint  of  sweet  wine,  and 
serve  it  with  toasted  bread. 

WINE  REFINED.  In  order  to 
refine  either  wine  or  cider,  beat  up 
the  whites  and  shells  of  twenty  eggs. 
Mix  a  quart  of  the  liquor  with  them, 
and  put  it  into  the  cask.  Stir  it 
well  to  the  bottom,  let  it  stand  half 
an  hour,  and  stop  it  up  close.  In  a 
few  days  it  may  be  bottled  off. 

WINE  ROLL.  Soak  a  penny 
French  roll  in  raisin  wine  till  it  will 
hold  no  more :  put  it  in  a  dish,  and 
pour  round  it  a  custard,  or  cream, 
sugar,  and  lemon  juice.  Just  before 
it  is  served,  sprinkle  over  it  some 
nonpareil  comfits,  or  stick  into  it  a 
few  blanched  almonds  slit.  Sponge 
biscuits  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
roll. 

WINE  SAUCE.  For  venison  or 
hare,  mix  together  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  claret  or  port,  the  same  quan- 
tity of  plain  mutton  gravy,  and  a 
table-spoonful  of  currant  jelly.  Let 
it  just  boil  up,  and  send  it  to  table 
in  a  sauce  boat. 

W INE  VINEGAR.  After  making 
raisin  wine,  when  the  fruit  has  been 
strained,  lay  it  on  a  heap  to  heat ; 
then  to  every  hundred  weight,  put 
fifteen  gallons  of  water.  Set  the 
cask  in  the  sun,  and  put  in  a  toast 
of  yeast.  As  vinegar  is  so  neces- 
sary an  article  in  a  family,  and  one 
on  which  so  great  a  profit  is  made, 
a  barrel  or  two  might  always  be  kept 
preparing,  according  to  what  suited. 
If  the  raisins  of  wine  were  ready, 
that  kind  might  be  made  ;  if  goose- 
berries be  cheap  and  plentiful,  then 
gooseberry  vinegar  may  be  preferred  ; 
or  if  neither,  then  the  sugar  vinegar ; 
so  that  the  cask  need  not  be  left 
empty,  or  be  liable  to  grow  musty. 

WINE  WHEY.  Put  on  the  fire 
a  pint  of  milk  and  water,  and  the 
moment  it  begins  to  boil,  pour  in  as 
much  sweet  wine  as  will  turn  it  into 
whev,  and  make  it  look  clear.     Boil 


it  up,  and  let  it  stand  off  the  fire  till 
the  curd  all  sinks  to  the  bottom. 
Do  not  stir  it,  but  pour  off  the  whey 
for  use.  Or  put  a  pint  of  skimmed 
milk  and  half  a  pint  of  white  wine 
into  a  basin,  let  it  stand  a  few  mi- 
nutes, and  pour  over  it  a  pint  of 
boiling  water.  When  the  curd  has 
settled  to  the  bottom,  pour  off  the 
whey,  and  put  in  a  piece  of  lump 
sugar,  a  sprig  of  balm,  or  a  slice  of 
lemon. 

WINTER  VEGETABLES.  To 
preserve  several  vegetables  to  eat  in 
the  winter,  observe  the  following 
rules.  French  beans  should  be  ga- 
thered young,  and  put  into  a  little 
wooden  keg,  a  layer  of  them  about 
three  inches  deep.  Then  sprinkle 
them  with  salt,  put  another  layer  of 
beans,  and  so  on  till  the  keg  is  full, 
but  be  careful  not  to  sprinkle  too 
much  salt.  Lay  over  them  a  plate, 
or  a  cover  of  wood  that  will  go  into 
the  keg,  and  put  a  heavy  stone  upon 
it.  A  pickle  will  rise  from  the  beans 
and  salt ;  and  if  they  are  too  salt, 
the  soaking  and  boiling  will  not  be 
sufficient  to  make  them  palatable. 
When  they  are  to  be  eaten,  they  must 
be  cut,  soaked,  and  boiled  as  fresh 
beans.  Carrots,  parsnips,  and  beet 
root,  should  be  kept  in  layers  of  dry 
sand,  and  neither  they  nor  potatoes 
should  be  cleared  from  the  earth. 
Store  onions  keep  best  hung  up  in  a 
dry  cold  room.  Parsley  should  be 
cut  close  to  the  stalks,  and  dried  in 
a  warm  room,  or  on  tins  in  a  very 
cool  oven.  Its  flavour  and  colour 
may  thus  be  preserved,  and  will  be 
found  useful  in  winter.  Artichoke 
bottoms,  slowly  dried,  should  be 
kept  in  paper  bags.  Truffles,  mo- 
rels, and  lemon  peel,  should  be  hung 
in  a  dry  place,  and  ticketed.  Small 
close  cabbages,  laid  on  a  stone  floor 
before  the  frost  sets  in,  will  blanch 
and  be  very  fine,  after  many  weeks' 
keeping. 

WOOD.  An  excellent  glue,  su- 
perior to  the  common  sort,  and  suit- 
able for  joining  broken  furniture  or 


wo  R 


won 


any  kind  of  wood,  may  be  made  of 
an  ounce  of  isinglass  dissolved  in  a 
pint  of  brandy.  The  isinglass  should 
be  pounded,  dissolved  by  gentle  heat, 
strained  through  a  piece  of  muslin, 
and  kept  in  a  glass  closely  stopped. 
When  required  for  use,  it  should  be 
dissolved  with  moderate  heat,  and 
applied  the  same  as  common  glue. 
Its  effect  is  so  powerful  as  to  join 
the  parts  of  wood  stronger  than  the 
wood  itself,  but  should  not  be  ex- 
posed to  damp  or  moisture. 

WOODCOCKS.  These  will  keep 
good  for  several  days.  Roast  them 
without  drawing,  and  serve  them  on 
toast.  The  thigh  and  back  are  es- 
teemed the  best.  Butter  only  should 
be  eaten  with  them,  as  gravy  di- 
*  minishes  the  fineness  of  the  flavour. 
To  roast  woodcocks  and  snipes  in 
the  French  method,  take  out  the 
trails  and  chop  them,  except  the 
stomachs,  with  some  minced  bacon, 
or  a  piece  of  butter.  Add  some 
parsley  and  chives,  and  a  little  salt. 
Put  this  stuffing  into  the  birds,  sow 
up  the  opening,  ^nd  roast  them  with 
bacon  covered  with  paper.  Serve 
them  up  with  Spanish  sauce. 

WOOLLENS.  To  preserve  arti- 
cles of  this  sort  from  the  moths,  let 
them  be  well  brushed  and  shaken, 
and  laid  up  cool  and  dry.  Then 
mix  among  them  bitter  apples  from 
the  druggists',  in  small  muslin  bags, 
carefully  sewn  up  in  several  folds  of 
linen,  and  turned  in  at  the  edges. 

WORMS.  A  strong  decoction  of 
walnut  tree  leaves  thrown  upon  the 
ground  where  there  are  worm  casts, 
will  cause  them  to  rise  up.  They 
may  then  be  given  to  the  poultry, 
or  thrown  into  the  fish  pond.  Salt 
and  water,  or  a  ley  of  wood  ashes, 
poured  into  worm-holes  on  a  gravel 
walk,  will  effectually  destroy  them. 
Sea  water,  the  brine  of  salted  meat, 
or  soot,  will  be  found  to  answer  the 
same  purpose. 

WORMS.  Worms  in  children  are 
denoted  by  paleness  of  the  face,  itch- 
ing of  the  nose,  grinding  of  the  teeth 


during  sleep,  offensive  breath,  and 
nausea.  The  belly  is  hard  and  pain- 
ful, and  in  the  morning  there  is  a 
copious  flow  of  saliva,  and  an 
uncommon  craving  for  dry  food. 
Amongst  a  variety  of  other  medicines 
for  destroying  worms  in  the  human 
body,  the  following  will  be  found 
effectual.  Make  a  solution  of  tar- 
tarised  antimony,  two  grains  in  four 
ounces  of  water,  and  take  two  or 
three  tea-spoonfuls  three  times  a  day, 
for  four  days  ;  and  on  the  following 
day  a  purging  powder  of  calomel 
and  jalap,  from  three  to  six  grains 
each.  Or  take  half  a  pound  of  senna 
leaves  well  bruised,  and  twelve  ounces 
of  olive  oil,  and  digest  them  together 
in  a  sand  heat  for  four  or  five  days. 
Strain  off  the  liquor,  take  a  spoonful 
in  the  morning  fasting,  persevere  in 
it,  and  it  will  be  found  effectual  in 
the  most  obstinate  cases.  A  more 
simple  remedy  is  to  pour  some  port 
wine  into  a  pewter  dish,  and  let  it 
stand  for  twenty-four  hours.  Half 
a  common  wine-glassful  is  a  sufficient 
dose  for  an  infant,  an4  a  whole  one 
for  an  adult. 

WORMWOOD  ALE.  The  proper 
way  to  make  all  sorts  of  herb  drinks, 
is  to  gather  the  herbs  in  the  right 
season.  Then  dry  them  in  the  shade, 
and  put  them  into  close  paper  bags. 
When  they  are  wanted  for  use,  take 
out  the  proper  quantity,  put  it  into 
a  linen  bag,  and  suspend  it  in  the 
beer  or  ale,  while  it  is  working  or 
fermenting,  from  two  to  six  or  eight 
hours,  and  then  take  it  out.  Worm- 
wood ought  not  to  lie  so  long,  three 
or  four  hours  will  be  quite  sufficient. 
If  the  herbs  are  properly  gathered 
and  prepared,  all  their  pure  and 
balsamic  virtues  will  readily  infuse  ^ 
themselves  into  the  liquor,  whether  . 
wine  or  beer,  as  the  pure  sweet  qua-  "^ 
lity  in  malt  does  into  the  warm  li-  ^^ 
quor  in  brewing,  which  is  done  ef- 
fectually in  about  an  hour.  But  if 
malt  is  suffered  to  remain  more  than 
six  hours,  before  the  liquor  is  drawn 
off,  all  the  nauseous  properties  will 

3  R  489     .*' 


wo  u 


WRI 


be  extracted,  and  overpower  the 
good  ones.  It  is  the  same  in  in- 
fusing any  sort  of  well-prepared 
herbs,  and  great  care  therefore  is 
requisite  in  all  preparations,  that 
the  pure  qualities  are  neither  eva- 
porated or  overpowered.  Other- 
wise, whatever  it  be,  it  will  soon  tend 
to  putrefaction,  and  become  injuri- 
ous and  loathsome.  Beer,  ale,  or 
other  liquor,  into  which  herbs  are 
infused,  must  be  unadulterated,  or 
the  infusion  will  be  destroyed  by  its 
pernicious  qualities.  Nothing  is  more 
prejudicial  to  the  health,  or  the  in- 
tellectual faculties  of  mankind,  than 
adulterated  liquors.  Articles  which 
in  their  purest  state  are  of  an  equi- 
vocal character,  and  never  to  be 
trusted  without  caution,  are  thus 
converted  into  decided  poisons. — 
Another  way  of  making  wormwood 
ale.  Take  a  quantity  of  the  herb, 
according  to  the  intended  strength 
of  the  liquor,  and  infuse  it  for  half 
an  hour  in  the  boiling  wort.  Then 
strain  it  off,  and  set  the  wort  to  cool. 
Wormwood  beer  prepared  either 
ways,  is  a  line  wholesome  liquor.  It 
is  gentle,  warming,  assisting  diges- 
tion, and  refining  to  the  blood,  with- 
out sending  any  gross  fumes  to  the 
head.  The  same  method  should  be 
observed  inmakihg  all  sorts  of  drinks, 
in  which  any  strong  bitter  herbs  are 
infused.  It  renders  them  pleasant 
and  grateful,  both  to  the  stomach 
and  palate,  and  preserves  all  the  me- 
dicinal virtues.  Most  bitter  herbs 
have  a  powerful  tendency  to  open 
obstructions,  if  judiciously  managed  ; 
but  in  the  way  in  which  they  are  too 
commonly  made,  they  are  not  only 
rendered  extremely  unpleasant,  but 
their  medicinal  properties  are  de- 
stroyed . 

WOUNDS.  If  occasioned  by  a 
cut,  it  will  be  proper  immediately  to 
close  the  wounded  part,  so  as  to  ex- 
clude the  air  and  prevent  its  bleed- 
ing, and  then  any  common  sticking 
plaister  may  be  applied.  When  the 
wound  is  deep  and  difficult  to  close, 
490 


a  bandage  should  be  applied ;  and 
if  the  skin  be  lacerated,  or  the  edges 
of  the  wound  begin  to  be  rough,  lay 
on  some  lint  dipped  in  sweet  oil,  and 
cover  the  whole  with  a  piece  of  fine 
oil  cloth.  New  honey  spread  on 
folded  linen  affords  an  excellent  re- 
medy for  fresh  and  bleeding  wounds, 
as  it  will  prevent  inflammation  and 
the  growth  of  proud  flesh.  In  wounds 
which  cannot  readily  be  healed,  on 
account  of  external  inflammation  and 
feverish  heat,  emollient  poultices, 
composed  of  the  crumb  of  bread 
boiled  in  milk,  must  be  applied,  and 
renewed  several  times  in  a  day,  with- 
out disturbing  or  touching  the  wound- 
ed part  with  the  fingers.  Wounds 
of  the  joints  will  heal  most  expe- 
ditiously by  the  simple  application 
of  cold  water,  provided  the  orifice  of 
such  wounds  be  immediately  closed 
by  means  of  adhesive  plaster. 

WOW  WOW.  For  stewed  beef, 
chop  some  parsley  leaves  very  fine, 
quarter  two  or  three  pickled  cucum- 
bers or  walnuts,  and  divide  them  into 
small  squares,  and  set  them  by  ready. 
Put  into  a  saucepan  a  good  bit  of 
butter,  stir  up  with  it  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  fine  flour,  and  about  half  a 
pint  of  the  broth  in  which  the  beef 
was  boiled.  Add  a  table-spoonful 
of  vinegar,  as  much  ketchup  or  port 
wine,  or  both,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
made  mustard.  Let  it  simmer  gently 
till  it  is  sufliiciently  thickened,  put  in 
the  parsley  and  pickles  ready  pre- 
pared, and  pour  it  over  the  beef,  or 
send  it  up  in  a  sauce  tureen. 

WvRIT  OF  EJECTMENT.  When 
a  tenant  has  either  received  or  given 
a  proper  notice  to  quit  at  a  certain 
time,  and  fails  to  deliver  up  posses- 
sion, it  is  at  the  option  of  the  land- 
lord to  give  notice  of  double  rent,  or 
issue  a  writ  to  dispossess  the  tenant. 
In  the  latter  cise  he  recovers  the 
payment  of  the  rent,  or  the  surren- 
der of  the  premises.  In  all  cases 
between  landlord  and  tenant,  when 
half  a  year's  rent  is  due,  such  land- 
lord  may   serve   a    declaratibn    or 


YEA 


YEA 


rjectment  for  the  recovery  of  the 
premises,  without  any  formal  demand 
or  re-entry.  If  the  premises  be  un- 
occupied, though  not  surrendered, 
he  may  affix  the  declaration  to  the 


d*K>r,  or  any  other  conspicuous  part 
of  the  dwelling,  which  will  be  deem- 
ed legal,  and  stand  instead  of  a  deed 
o^f  re-entry.     • 


Yeast.  This  is  the  barm  or  froth 
which  rises  in  beer,  and  other  rnalt 
liquors,  during  a  state  of  fermenta- 
tion. When  thrown  up  by  one 
quantity  of  malt  or  vinous  liquid,  it 
may  be  preserved  to  be  put  into 
another,  at  a  future  period  ;  on 
which  it  will  exert  a  similar  ferment- 
ative action.  Yeast  is  likewise  used 
in  the  making  of  bread,  without 
which  it  would  be  heavy  and  un- 
wholesome. It  has  a  vinous  sour 
odour,  a  bitter  taste  arising  from 
the  hops  in  the  malt  liquor,  and  it 
reddens  the  vegetable  blues.  When 
it  is  filtered,  a  matter  remains  which 
possesses  properties  similar  to  ve- 
getable gluten  ;  by  this  separation 
the  yeast  loses  the  property  of  ex- 
citing fermentation,  but  recovers  it 
again  when  the  gluten  is  added. 
The  addition  of  yeast  to  any  vege- 
table substance,  containing  saccha- 
rine matter,  excites  fermentation  by 
generating  a  quantity  of  carbonic 
acid  gas.  This  very  useful  sub- 
stance cannot  always  be  procdred 
conveniently  from  malt  liquor  for 
baking  and  brewing  :  the  following 
method  will  be  found  useful  for  its 
extemporaneous  preparation.  Mix 
two  quarts  of  soft  water  with  wheat 
flour,  to  the  consistence  of  thick 
gruel;  boil  it  gently  for  half  an 
hour,  and  when  almost  cold,  stir 
into  it  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and 
four  spoonfuls  of  good  yeast.  Put 
the  whole  into  a  large  jug,  or  earthen 
vessel,  with  a  narrow  top,  and  place 
it  before  the  fire,  that  by  a  moderate 
lieat  it  may  ferment.  The  fermenta- 


tion will  throw  up  a  thin  liquor, 
which  pour  off  and  throw  away  ; 
keep  the  remainder  in  a  bottle,  or 
jug  tied  over,  and  set  it  in  a  cool 
place.  The  same  quantity  of  this 
as  of  common  yeast  will  suffice  to 
bake  or  brew  with.  Four  spoonfuls 
of  this  yeast  will  make  a  fresh  quan- 
tity as  before,  and  the  stock  may 
always  be  kept  up,  by  fermenting 
the  new  with  the  remainder  of  the 
former  quantity. — Another  method. 
Take  six  quarts  of  soft  water,  and 
two  handfuls  <Jf  wheaten  meal  or 
barley.  Stir  the  latter  in  fche  water 
before  the  mixture  is  placed  over 
the  fire,  where  it  must  boil  till  two 
t^iirds  are  evaporated.  When  this 
decoction  becomes  cool,  incorporate 
with  it,  by  means  of  a  whisk,  two 
drams  of  salt  of  tartar,  and  one  dram 
of  cream  of  tartar,  previously  mixed. 
The  whole  should  now  be  kept  in  a 
warm  place.  Thus  a  very  strong 
yeast  for  brewing,  distilling,  and 
baking,  may  be  obtained.  For  the 
I^st-mentioned  purpose,  however, 
it  ought  to  be  diluted  with  pure  wa- 
ter, apd  passed  through  a  sieve,  be- 
fore it  is  kneaded  with  the  dough, 
in  order  to  deprive  it  of  its  alkaline 
taste. — In  countries  where  yeast  is 
scarce,  it  is  a  common  practice  to 
twist  hazel  twigs  so  as  to  be  full  of 
chinks,  and  then  to  steep  them  in 
ale  yeast  during  fermentation.  The 
twigs  are  then  hung  up  to  dry,  and 
at  the  next  brewing  they  are  put  into 
the  wort  instead  of  yeast.  In  Italy 
the  chips  are  frequently  put  into  tur- 
bid wine  for  the  purpose  of  clearing 
491 


YEA 


YEA 


it,  which  is  effected  in  about  twenty- 
four  hours. — A  good  article  for  bak- 
ing bread  may  be  made  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner.  Boil  a  pound  of 
fine  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
brown  siigar,  and  a  little  salt,  in 
two  gallons  of  water,  for  one  hour. 
Let  it  stand  till  it  is  milk  warm,  then 
bottle  and  cork  it  close,  and  it  will 
be  fit  for  use  in  twenty-fqur  hours. 
A  pint  of  this  yeast  will  make  eigh- 
teen pounds  of  bread.  Or  math  a 
pound  of  mealy  potatoes,  and  pulp 
them  through  a  cullender ;  add  two 
ounces  of  brown  sugar,  and  two 
spoonfuls  of  common  yeast.  Keep 
it  moderately  warm  while  ferment- 
ing, and  it  will  produce  a  quart  of 
good  yeast. — The  best  method  of 
preserving  common  yeast,  produced 
from  beer  or  ale,  is  to  set  a  quantity 
of  it  to  settle,  closely  covered,  that 
the  spirit  may  not  evaporate.  Pro- 
vide in  the'  mean  time  as  many 
small  hair  sieves  as  will  hold  the 
thick  barm  :  small  sieves  are  men- 
tioned, because  dividing  the  yeast 
into  small  quantities  conduces  to  its 
preservation.  Lay  over  each  sieve 
a  piece  of  coarse  flannel  that  may 
reach  the  bottom,  and  leave  at  least 
eight  inches  over  the  rim.  Piltir 
off  the  thin  liquor,  and  set  it  by  to 
subside,  as  the  grounds  will  do  for 
immediate  baking  or  brewing,  if  co- 
vered up  for  a  few  hours.  Fill  the 
sieves  with  the  thick  barm,  and  cover 
them  up  for  two  hours  :  then  gather 
the  flannel  edges  as  a  bag,  and  tic 
them  firmly  with  twine.  Lay  each 
bag  upon  several  folds  of  i»oarse 
linen,  changing  these  folds  every 
half  hour,  till  they  imbibe  no  more 
moisture.  Then  cover  each  bag 
with  another  piece  of  flannel,  chang- 
ing it  if  it  Becomes  damp,  and  hang 
them  m  a  cool  airy  place.  The  yeast 
should  be  strained  before  it  is  set 
to  settle,  and  while  the  flannel  bags 
are  laid  upon  the  folds  of  linen,  they 
must  be  covered  with  a  thick  cloth. 
When  the  yeast  is  wanted  for  use, 
prepare  a  strong  infusion  of  malt ; 
4f>2 


to  a  gallon  of  which  add  a  piece  of 
dried  barm,  about  the  size  of  a 
goose's  egg.  The  proportion  indeed 
must  depend  upon  its  quality,  which 
experience  only  can  ascertain.  The 
malt  infusion  must  be  nearly  milk 
warm  when  the  yeast  is  crumbled 
into  it :  for  tv^  hours  it  will  froth 
high,  and  bake  two  bushels  of  flour 
into  well-fermented  bread.  A  decoc- 
tion of  green  peas,  or  of  ripened  dry 
peas,^  with  as  much  sugar  as  will 
sweeten  it,  makes  fairer  bread  than 
the  malt  infusion  ;  but  it  will  take  a 
larger  quantity  of  dried  yeast  to 
produce  fermentation.  It  was  usual 
some  years  ago  to  reduce  porter 
yeast  to  dryness,  and  in  that  state  it 
was  carried  to  the  West  Indies, 
where  it  was  brought  by  means  of 
water  to  its  original  state,  and  then 
employed  as  a  ferment. — Another 
method  of  preserving  yeast.  Take 
a  quantity  of  yeast,  and  work  it  well 
with  a  whisk  till  it  becomes  thin  ; 
then  have  a  broad  wooden  platter, 
or  tub,  that  is  very  clean  and  dry, 
and,  with  a  soft  brush,  lay  a  layer  of 
yeast  all  over  the  bottom,  and  turn 
the  mouth  downwards  that  no  dust 
can  fall  in,  but  so  that  the  air  may 
-come  to  it,  to  dry  it.  When  that 
coat  is  very  dry,  lay  on  another ;  do 
so  till  you  have  asmuch  as  you  in- 
tend to  keep,  taking  care  that  one 
coat  is  dry  before  you  lay  on  ano- 
ther. When  you  have  occasion  to 
make  use  of  this  yeast,  cut  a  piece 
off;  'and  lay  it  in  warm  water ;  stir 
it  till  it  is  dissolved,  and  it  is  fit  for 
use.  If  it  is  for  brewing,  take  a 
whisk,  or  a  large  handful  of  birch 
tied  together,  and  dip  it  into  the 
yeast,  and  hang  it  up  to  dry  ;  when 
it  is  dry  wrap  it  up  in  paper,  and 
keep  it  in  a  dry  place  ;  thus  you 
may  do  as  many  as  you  please. 
When  your  beer  is  fit  to  work,  throw 
in  one  of  your  whisks,  and  cover  it 
over  ;  it  will  set  it  a  working  as  well 
as  fresh  yeast.  When  you  find  you 
have  a  head  suflicient,  take  out  your 
whisk  and  hang  it  up.     If  the  yeast 


Y  EA 


YEL 


is  not  all  off,  it  will  do  for  your  next 
brewing. 

YEAST  CAKES.  The  inhabi- 
tants of  Long  Island  in  America  are 
in  the  habit  of  making  yeast  cakes 
once  a  year.  These  are  dissolved 
and  mixed  with  the  dough,  which  it 
raises  in  such  a  manner  as  to  form 
'    it  into  very  excellent  bread.     The 

^  following  is  the  method  in  which 
these  cakes  are  made.  Rub  three 
ounces  of  hops  so  as  to  separate 
them,  and  then  put  them  into  a  gal- 
lon of  boiling  water,  where  they  are 
to  boil  for  half  an  hour.  Now  strain 
the  liquor  through  a  fine  sieve  into 
an  earthen  vessel,  and  while  it  is 
hot,  put  in  three  pounds  and  a  half 
of  rye  flour,  stirring  the  liquid  well 
and  quickly  as  the  flour  is  put  in. 
When  it  has  become  milk  warm,  add 
half  a  pint  of  good  yeast.  On  the 
'  following  day,  while  the  mixture  is 
fermenting,  stir  well  into  it  seven 
pounds  of  Indian  corn  meal,  and  it 

^  ^will  render  the  whole  mass  stiff  like 
^dough.  Thia  dough  is  to  be  well 
kneaded  and  rolled  out  into  cakes 
about  a  third  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 
These  cakes  are  to  be  cut  out  into 
large  disks  or  lozenges,  or  any  other 
shape,  by  an  inverted  glass  tumbler 
or  any  other  instrument ;  and  being 
placed  on  a  sheet  of  tinned  iron,  or 
on  a  piece  of  board,  are  to  be  dried 
by  the  heat  of  the  sun.  If  care  be 
taken  to  turn  them  frequently,  and 
to  see  that  they  take  no  wet  or 
moisture,  they  will  become  as  hard 
as  ship  biscuit,  and^may  be  kept  in 
a  bag  or  box,  which  is  to  be  hung 
up  or  kept  in  an  airy  and  perfectly 
dry  situation.  When  bread  is  to  be 
made,  two  lakes  of  the  above-men- 
tioned thickness,  and  about  three 
inches  in  diameter,  are  to  be  broken 
and  put  into  hot  water,  where  they 
are  to  remain  all  night,  the  vessel 
standing  near  the  fire.  In  the  morn- 
ing they  will  be  entirely  dissolved, 
and  then  the  mixture  is  to  be  em- 
ployed in  setting  the  sponge,  in  the 
same  way  as  beer  yeast  is  used.    In 


making  a  farther  supply  for  the  next 
year,  beer  or  ale  yeast  may  be  used 
as  before  ;  but  this  is  not  necessary 
where  a  cake  of  the  old  stock  re- 
mains, for  this  will  act  on  the  new  ,^ 
mixture  precisely  in  the  same  way. 
If  the  dry  cakes  were  reduced  to 
powder  in  a  mortar,  the  same  re- 
sults would  take  place,  with  perhaps 
more  convenience,  and  in  less  time. 
Indian  meal  is  used  because  it  is  of 
a  less  adhesive  nature  than  wheat 
flour,  but  where  Indian  meal  cannot 
easily  be  procured,  white  pea-meal, 
or  even  barley-nieal,  will  answer  tHe 
purpose  equally  well.  The  principal 
art  or  requisite  in  making  yeast 
cakes,  consists  in  drying  them  quick-  , 
ly  and  thoroughly,  and  in  preventing  ^ 
them  from  coming  in  contact  with 
the  least  particle  of  moisture  till 
they  are  used. 

YEAST  DUMPLINS.  Make  a 
very  light  dough  as  for  bread,  only 
in  a  smaller  quantity.  When  it  has 
been  v^jorked  up,  and  risen  a  sufficient 
time  before  the  fire,  mould  it  l^U> 
good  sized  dumplins,  put  them  rato 
boiling  .water,  and  let  them  boil 
twenty  minutes.  The  dough  may 
be  made  up  with  milk  and  water  if 
preferred.  These  dumplins  are  very 
nice  when  done  in  a  potatoe  steam- 
er, and  require  about  thirty-five 
minutes,  if  of  a  good  size.  The 
steamer  must  not  be  opened  till  they 
are  taken  up,  or  it  will  make  the 
dumplins  heavy.  Dough  from  the 
baker's  will  answer  the  purpose  very 
well,  if  it  cannot  conveniently  be 
made  at  home.  The  dough  made 
for  rolls  is  the  most  delicate  for 
dumplins.  If  not  eaten  as  soon  as 
they  are  taken  up,  either  out  of  the 
water  or  the  steamer,  they  are  apt 
to  fall  and  become  heavy.  Eaten 
with  cold  butter  they  are  much  bet- 
ter than  with  any  kind  of  sauce,  ex- 
cept meat  dripping  directly  from 
the  pan.  The  addition  of  a  few  cur- 
rants will  make  good  currant  dump- 
lins. 

YELLOW  BLAMANGE.     Pour 
493 


YEL 


YOR 


a  pint  of  boiling  water  to  an  ounce  of 
isinglass,  and  add  the  peel  of  one 
lemon.  When  cold,  put  in  two 
ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  white  wine,  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Stir  all  well  together,  let  it  boil  five 
minutes,  strain  it  through  a  bag,  and 
jHit  it  into  cups. 

YELLOW  DYE.  There  is  a 
new  stain  for  wood,  and  a  yellow 
dye  for  cloth,  which  consists  of  a 
decoction  of  walnut  or  hickory  bark, 
with  a  small  quantity  of  alum  dis- 
solved in  it,  in  order  to  give  perma- 
nency to  the  colour.  Wood  of  a 
white  colour  receives  from  the  ap- 
plication of  this  liquid  a  beautiful 
yellow  tinge,  which  is  not  liable  to 
fade.  It  is  particularly  for  furniture 
made  of  maple,  especially  that  kind 
of  it  which  is  caUed  bird's  eye,  and 
which  is  commonly  prepared  by 
scorching  its  surface  over  a  quick 
fire.  The  application  of  the  walnut 
dye  gi^'^s  a  lustre  even  to  the  darkest 
shades,  while  to  the  paler  and  fainter 
ones  it  adds  somewhat  of  a  greenish 
hue,  and  to  the  whiter  pafts  various 
"-tints  of  yellow.  After  applying  this 
stain  to  cherry  and  apple  wood,  the 
wood  should  be  slightly  reddened 
with  a  tincture  of  some  red  dye, 
whose  colour  is  not  liable  to  fade. 
A  handsome  dye  is  thus  given  to  it 
which  does  not  hide  the  grain,  and 
which  becomes  still  more  beautiful 
as  the  wood  grows  darker  by  age. 
Walnut  bark  makes  the  most  per- 
manent yellow  dye  for  dyeing  cloth 
of  any  of  the  vegetable  substances 
used  in  this  country.  Care  should 
be  taken  that  the  dye  be  not  too 
much  concentrated  :  when  this  hap- 
pens, the  colour  is  far  less  bright 
and  delicate,  and  approaches  nearer 
to  orange.  It  is  hardly  necessary 
to  add,  that  the  dye  should  be  boil- 
ed and  kept  in  a  brass  vessel,  or  in 
some  other  which  has  no  iron  in  its 
composition.  A  lively  yellow  colour 
for  dyeing  cloth,  may  be  produced 
from  potato  tops.  Gather  them  when 
404 


ready  to  flower,  press  out  the  juice, 
mix  it  with  a  little  water,  and  suffer 
the  cloth  to  remain  in  it  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  The  cloth,  whether  of 
wool,  cotton,  or  flax,  is  then  to  be 
dipped  in  spring  water.  By  plunging 
the  cloth  thus  tinged  with  yellow, 
into  a  vessel  of  blue  dye,  a  brilliant 
and  lasting  green  is  obtained. 

YELLOW  LEMON  CREAM. 
Pare  four  lemons  very  thin  into 
twelve  large  spoonfuls  of  water,  and 
squeeze  the  juice  on  seven  ounces  of 
finely  powdered  sugar.  Beat  well 
the  yolks  of  nine  eggs  ;  then  add 
the  peels  and  juice  of  the  lemons, 
and  work  them  together  for  some 
time.  Strain  the  whole  through  a 
flannel,  into  a  silver  saucepan,  or  one 
of  very  nice  block- tin,  and  set  it  over 
a  gentle  fire.  Stir  it  one  way  till  it 
is  pretty  thick,  and  scalding  hot, 
but  not  boiling,  or  it  will  curdle. 
Pour  it  into  jelly  glasses.  A  few 
lumps  of  sugar  should  be  rubbed  hard 
on  the  lemons  before  they  are  pared, 
to  attract  the  essence,  and  give  a 
better  colour  and  flavour  to  the  cream. 

YORKSHIRE  CAKES.  Mix  two 
pounds  of  flour  with  four  ounces  of 
butter  melted  in  a  pint  of  good  milk, 
three  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  two 
eggs.  Beat  all  well  together,  and 
let  it  rise  ;  then  knead  it,  and  make 
it  into  cakes.  Let  them  first  rise  on 
tins,  and  then  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 
— Another  sort  is  made  as  above, 
leaving  out  the  butter.  The  first  sort 
is  shorter  ;  the  last  lighter. 

YORKSHIRE  KNEAD  CAKES. 
Rub  six  ounces  of  butter  into  a  pound 
of  flour  till  it  is  very  fine,  and  mix  it 
into  a  stiff  paste  with  milk.  Knead 
it  well,  and  roll  it  out  several  times. 
Make  it  at  last  about  an  inch  thick, 
and  cut  it  into  cakes,  in  shapes  ac- 
cording to  the  fancy.  Bake  them  on 
an  iron  girdle,  and  when  done  on  one 
side  turn  them  on  the  other.  Cut 
them  open  and  butter  them  hot.  They 
also  eat  well  cold  or  toasted.  Haifa 
pound  of  currants  well  washed  and 
dried  may  be  added  at  pleasure. 


YOU 


YOU 


YORKSHIRE  HAMS.  Mix  half 
a  pound  of  salt,  three  ounces  of  salt- 
petre, half  an  ounce  of  sal  prunella, 
and  five  pounds  of  coarse  sugar. 
Rub  the  hams  with  this  mixture,  af- 
ter it  has  been  well  incorporated, 
and  lay  the  remainder  of  it  upon 
the  top.  Then  put  some  water  to 
the  pickle,  adding  salt  till  it  will 
bear  an  egg.  Boil  and  strain  it, 
cover  the  hams  with  it,  and  let  them 
lie  a  fortnight.  Rub  them  well  with 
bran,  and  dry  them.  The  above 
ingredients  arc  sufficient  for  three 
good  hams. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING.  Mix 
five  spoonfuls  of  flour  with  a  quart 
of  milk,  and  three  eggs  well  beaten. 
Butter  the  pan.  When  the  pudding 
is  brown  by  baking  under  the  meat, 
turn  the  other  side  upwards,  and 
brown  that.  Set  it  over  a  chafing- 
dish  at  first,  and  stir  it  some  mi- 
nutes. It  should  be  made  in  a  square 
pan,  and  cut  into  pieces  before  it 
comes  to  table. 

YOUNG  FOWLS.  The  follow- 
ing will  be  founjd  to  be  a  nice  way 
t)f  dressing  up  a  small  dish.     Bone, 


singe,  and  wash  a  young  fowl.  Make 
a  forcemeat  of  four  ounces  of  veal, 
two  ounces  of  lean  ham  scraped, 
two  ounces  of  fat  bacon,  two  hard 
yolks  of  eggs,  a  few  sweet  herbs 
chopped,  two  ounces  of  beef  suet, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon  peel  minced 
fine,  an  anchovy,  salt,  pepper,  and 
a  very  little  cayenne.  Beat  all  in  a 
mortar,  with  a  tea-cupful  of  crumbs, 
and  the  yolks  and  whites  of  three 
eggs.  Stuff  the  inside  of  the  fowl, 
draw  the  legs  and  wings  inwards,  tie 
up  the  neck  and  rump  close.  Stew 
the  fowl  in  a  white  gravy  ;  when  it .  , 
is  done  through  and  tender,  add  a^ 
large  cupful  of  cream,  with  a*  bit  of 
butter  and  flour.  Give  it  one  boil, 
add  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon,  and 
serve  it  u-p. 

YOUNG  ONION  SAUCE.  Peel 
a  pint  of  button  onions,  and  lay  them 
in  water.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan 
with  a  quart  of  cold  water,  and  let 
them  boil  for  half  an  hour  or  more, 
till  they  are  quite  tender.  They 
may  then  be  put  to  half  a  pint  of 
mushroom  sauce. 

496 


♦  % 


FINIS. 


i 


J.  AND  n.  CIIII.DS,  PniNTERS,  BUNGAY. 


»  * 


•' « 


* 


# 


•^> 


\ 


/^ 


t 


