I  T 


wmmwwi  i 


©F 


<gw  ^©Ds(l!h(BiriBi  3E®(sap®i 


By  Mrs.  E.  F.  WARREN 


OOK 


BY   MRS.   E.   F 


NEW 


I 


i 


» 

I 


Yazoo  Hardware  Co. 

Trade  With  Us-  -(ivb~ 
We  Try  to  Please  n^v"^ 


AGENTS   FOR 

Perfection  Oil  Cook  Stoves 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Warren,  Yazoo  City,  Miss., 
cooks  for  twenty-two  boarders  on  a 
FOUR     BURNER     PERFECTION     OIL 

stove.  ; 

I' 
Full  Line  Cooking  Utensils 



PEOPLES 

Cash  Grocery 

Yazoo  City,  Mississippi 


I 

ii 
i  ii 

— Quality,  Service,  Price — 

M.  M.  STUBBLEFIELD, 

Manager  i 

i 
PHONES  383  and  563  [ 

i 

►•.» 
— 2— 

©CLA659764 

APR  24 '22 


SOUPS 


OYSTER  SOUP— One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  let  come  to  a 
boil,  add  one  heaping  tablespoonful  butter  and  salt  to 
taste,  two  dozen  oysters,  let  boil  in  a  little  water  or  liquor 
in  a  different  vessel;  when  both  come  to 'a  boil  pour  them 
together,  put  a  few  oyster  crackers  in  bottom  of  soup 
plate  and  serve  soup  on  them  very  hot,  with  a  little  black 
pepper,  take  more  milk  and  oysters  if  for  a  crowd. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP— One  quart  of  milk,  one  can 
of  tomatoes,  press  tomatoes  through  a  collander,  add  a 
pinch  of  soda  to  prevent  curdling,  let  milk  come  to  a  boil 
then  add  tomatoes;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Thick- 
en with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  rubbed  into  flour. 
Serve  with  toasted  bread.  This  soup  when  done  should 
be  thick  as  cream. 

CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS  SOUP— Take  a  can  of  aspara- 
gus tips  and  boil  thoroughly  and  press  through  a  collan- 
der, have  ready  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  to  which  add 
the  asparagus  pulp,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
thicken  with  a  lump  of  butter  and  little  flour,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  serve  hot  with  toasted  crackers. 

CHICKEN  CONSOMME— Cut  a  fowl  into  pieces,  cover 
th  cold  water,  add  one  cup  of  rice,  and  boil  until  thor- 
oughly cooked,  remove  the  chicken,  when  cool,  skim  off 
the  grease,  strain,  pressing  the  rice  through  the  sieve, 
add  to  the  liquor  an  equal  amount  of  cream,  season  very 
highly  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  reheat  and  serve 
very  hot  in  cups  with  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  over 
each. 

—3— 


\~ 


"9 

i 

Tell  your  friends  to 


shop  at 


mngtons  j 

Yazoo  City's  Best  Store  J 

J 


For  Safety  and  Service 

KEEP  YOUR  MONEY  WITH 

Citizens  Bank  and    | 

Trust  Company 

Yazoo  City,  Miss.  j 

A  GUARANTEED  BANK 

When  You  Are  too  Busy  to  Bake 
!  Remember 

ii 


Weber's  Bakery 

Yazoo  City,  Mississippi 

Cakes,  Pies,  Pastries,  Bread  and 
Rolls 


CHICKEN  GUMBO — Fry  very  brown  a  large  tender  chick- 
en, take  upon  a  dish  and  fry  in  the  gravy  one  quart  of 
sliced  okra,  add  to  chicken,  put  chicken  and  okra  in  porce- 
lain vessel  of  cold  water,  add  one  large  onion  fried  in 
gravy,  one  spoon  of  butter,  two  sliced  Irish  potatoes,  one 
can  of  tomatoes,  one  spoonful  of  rice,  add  six  crackers, 
salt  to  taste  and  let  cook  for  several  hours,  being  careful 
not  to  scorch,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper  when 
ready  to  come  up. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP— Fill  pot  about  half  full  of  cold  water, 
put  either  a  beef  bone  or  left-over  broiled  steak  into  the 
water,  then  cut  up  three  Irish  potatoes,  about  one  pint  of 
okra  or  more,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  put  in  a  skillet 
and  cut  up  and  fry  one  onion  in  the  butter,  pour  one  can 
of  tomatoes  in  with  onions  and  chicken  with  a  little  flour, 
after  frying  them  pour  into  the  other  mixture;  when 
nearly  done  add  a  tablespoonful  of  rice  and  spaghetti 
broken  in  small  bits,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


—5— - 


To  the  Women  Who  Want  the 

Best  for  Less 

SummerfiekTs 

Yazoo  City,  Miss. 

Can  Always  Please  You 


We  Welcome  Your  Account 

Delta  Bank  &  Trust  Co. 

Yazoo  City,  Miss. 

"THE  BANK  OF  PERSONAL  SERVICE" 

Capital,   Surplus   and   Profits $    200,000.00 

Deposits $1,500,000.00 


Crane-Hamel  Hardware  Co. 

Yazoo  City     :     Mississippi 

The  place  to  buy  the  best  goods  for  the 
least  money. 

OUR  MOTTO:    "SERVICE" 

PHONES  467  and  46S 


—6- 


MEATS 


HAMBERGER  STEAK — Take  a  nice  sized  steak  and  grind, 
season  with  salt,  red  pepper  and  a  tiny  bit  of  onion,  fry  in 
little  cakes  like  sausages  until  brown,  then  make  a  thick- 
ened gravy  and  pour  one  can  of  tomatoes  into  it  then 
pour  your  little  cakes  all  into  the  gravy  and  let  cook 
awhile ;  serve  hot  on  a  dish  with  gravy  poured  over  steak. 

OLD  FASHIONED  FRIED  STEAK  (FRENCH  STYLE)— 

Beat  a  steak  thoroughly  with  hatchet,  have  one  spoonful 
of  lard  or  two  of  cooking  oil  hot  in  skillet;  cover  steak 
good  with  flour  on  both  sides  and  put  in  hot  grease ;  let 
brown  on  both  sides,  then  make  a  gravy  by  putting  some 
dry  flour  in  hot  grease  to  brown,  with  one  teacup  of  cold 
water  and  a  little  onion,  salt  and  pepper ;  put  steak  back 
into  gravy  and  cook  a  good  while,  turning  steak  over 
from  side  to  side.  Add  one  can  of  tomatoes  when  gravy 
is  first  made  and  cook  steak  in  it. 

BROILED  STEAK— Take  a  nice  piece  of  steak  and  beat 
thoroughly  with  hatchet,  wipe  top  of  stove  off  perfectly 
clean,  grease  steak  on  both  sides  and  throw  on  top  of 
stove  and  turn  over  rapidly  until  as  done  as  wanted.  Take 
up,  place  on  dish  and  sprinkle  salt  and  black  pepper  over 
it  and  cut  up  cold  butter,  about  a  tablespoonful  over 
steak,  and  run  dish  in  top  of  stove  until  butter  melts, 
then  take  out,  turn  over  in  butter  gravy  and  serve  at  once 
on  hot  dish.  Never  wash  steak  that  is  to  be  broiled. 
Wipe  with  damp  cloth. 

BROILED  CHICKEN— Take  a  small  chicken,  dress  and 
wash  clean,  dry  with  cloth,  have  a  very  hot  baker  on  top 
of  stove.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  put  chicken  on  baker 
and  cover  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  put  flat  top  on 

—7— 


START  RIGHT 

Mrs.  Warren  recommends 
the  use  of 


Posfels  Flours 


— Which  have  been  known  as  the  best  for  genera- 
tions. Flour  of  known  quality  should  be  the  be- 
ginning of  your  efforts. 


Wholesale  Distributors 
YAZOO  CITY,  MISSISSIPPI 


LESS  WORRY,  MRS.  HOUSEWIFE! 

E  Mound  City  Floor 
Stains  and  Varnishes 
and  your  floor  troubles 

S.  Dolton  Lumber  Company 


Everything  to  Build  a  Home" 


Yazoo  City.  Miss. 


Hot  and  Cold  Lunches 

BUDWEISER  DRAFT 

— DELICIA  CREAM— 

and  Frozen  Desserts 

Exchange  Brag  Store  ' 

YAZOO  CITY,  MISS. 


chicken  and  set  a  heavy  iron  on  top ;  don't  cook  too  fast ; 
turn  often  until  done. 

BAKED  CHICKEN — Cook  an  old  chicken  tender,  kill  and 
dress  the  day  before,  rub  a  little  soda  over  the  outside, 
lay  fowl  in  ice  box  over  night,  before  cooking  wash  off  all 
the  soda  and  grease  fowl  all  over,  then  put  in  roasting 
pan  with  about  two  inches  of  water  in  botton,  and  cover 
tight,  cook  until  it  begins  to  tender,  take  out  and  fill  with 
dressing.  Turn  often  and  baste  with  water  in  pan  until 
brown  and  tender. 

DRESSING  FOR  BAKED  CHICKEN^-Take  a  pan  of  egg 
bread  made  of  corn  meal  and  some  light  bread  or  biscuits, 
pour  water  over  to  soften;  mix  thoroughly,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard, 
one  onion  cut  small,  a  little  celery  and  two  raw  eggs,  put 
into  skillet,  with  little  grease  on  top  of  stove  and  let  cook 
awhile  then  remove  and  stuff  fowl  with  it. 

SOUTHERN  STYLE  FRIED  CHICKEN— Take  a  young 
chicken,  dress  and  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  roll  in  flour,  sea- 
son to  taste  with  salt  and  black  pepper.  Have  a  skillet 
with  very  hot  grease,  put  chicken  in  and  fry  to  a  crisp 
brown,  take  chicken  out  and  make  a  cream  gravy  as  fol- 
lows: Sprinkle  dry  flour  in  grease  and  brown,  pour  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  stir  con- 
stantly and  don't  burn,  till  thick  as  wanted. 

CHICKEN  STEW— Take  a  large  chicken,  dress  and  cut  up 
and  boil  until  tender  in  half  a  pot  of  water,  make  dump- 
lings as  follows:  One  pint  of  flour,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  lard,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  make  up 
with  ice  water  to  a  stiff  dough,  roll  thin  and  cut  into 
small  pieces;  put  in  pot  with  chicken  and  a  spoonful  of 
butter;  take  half  a  cup  of  cold  water,  thicken  with  flour 
and  pour  in  pot  to  thicken  gravy ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 

CHICKEN  PIE — Dress  and  boil  one  chicken  in  about  half 
gallon  of  water  until  tender,  then  make  a  crust  as  fol- 

—9— 


lows:  One  pint  of  flour,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
lard,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  make  stiff  dough  with 
ice  water;  roll  thin  crust  large  enough  to  cover  the  bot- 
tom of  pan ;  then  put  chicken  and  liquor  in  pan,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste ;  put  in  one  cup  of  butter  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  sift  a  little  flour  over  the  mixture,  cut  some  of  the 
dough  into  small  pieces  and  put  all  around  among  the 
chicken,  then  roll  a  thin  crust  and  put  over  top  of  pan ;  let 
middle  of  the  crust  go  down  on  the  mixture,  bring  up  on 
sides  and  press  down  with  a  fork  on  the  edge  of  the  pan. 
Puncture  the  top  of  the  crust  with  a  fork,  putting  pieces 
of  butter  into  puncture,  set  in  stove  and  brown  slowly. 

BEEF  (POT  ROAST)— Put  small  roast  in  pot  on  top  of 
stove  with  small  quantity  of  water;  cook  until  brown, 
then  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  sprinkle  well 
with  flour,  pour  tablespoonf ul  of  vinegar  over  meat ;  keep 
pot  tightly  covered,  turn  roast  often;  when  nearly  done 
pour  in  one  can  of  tomatoes  and  let  cook  a  good  while. 

STUFFED  ROAST— Put  roast  in  roasting  pan,  put  some 
flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  two  tablespoons  of  vinegar  over 
same,  put  a  little  water  in  roasting  pan  and  keep  covered 
tightly.  Make  dressing  like  for  baked  chicken.  When 
roast  is  nearly  done  slash  down  the  roast  and  put  dress- 
ing in  slashes,  let  brown  nicely ;  cook  for  three  or  four 
hours  till  perfectly  tender. 

BEEF  HASH — Cut  up  beef  in  small  pieces,  one  Irish  potato 
and  a  small  onion ;  put  in  stew  pan  with  a  little  water ;  let 
boil  until  tender;  put  a  little  flour  into  it  to  thicken  the 
gravy. 

FRIED  BEEF  HASH— Grind  cold  roast  or  any  kind  of  cold 
beef,  add  one  small  ground  onion,  small  quantity  of  cooked 
Irish  potatoes,  salt  to  season,  adding  a  pinch  of  red  pep- 
per, make  into  small  cakes  like  sausages  and  fry  in  hot 
grease. 

—10— 


PORK  ROAST  AND  POTATOES— Take  a  nice  pork  roast, 
wash  and  put  in  roasting  pan,  put  salt  and  pepper  and 
flour  over  same,  fill  pan  about  half  full  of  water  and  keep 
well  basted;  when  about  half  done  turn  the  skin  side  up 
and  slash  deep,  and  let  brown ;  when  about  half  done  peel 
a  lot  of  small  sweet  potatoes  and  put  around  roast  and  let 
them  all  brown  together ;  cook  two  or  three  hours  or  until 
tender ;  serve  potatoes  around  roast  on  dish. 

PORK  SAUSAGE — Take  pork,  lean  and  fat,  grind  in  meat 
chopper,  season  with  salt  and  red  and  black  pepper  to 
taste;  take  a  little  sage  and  dry  in  stove;  rub  through 
sifter  and  into  meat ;  mix  all  thoroughly ;  make  into  small 
cakes  and  fry. 

BACK-BONE  AND  DUMPLINGS— Take  the  back-bone  of 
a  hog,  cut  into  small  pieces,  or  as  much  as  needed;  put 
on  in  pot  of  water,  boil  together  until  tender;  lift  out  of 
pot  and  make  dumplings  as  directed  in  chicken  stew ;  put 
on  in  pot  of  water  where  bone  has  boiled;  thicken  gravy 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  when  done  put  back-bone 
in  with  stew  and  serve  all  together. 

PORK  SPARE  RIBS— Take  ribs  from  side,  cut  across  sev- 
eral times,  put  in  roasting  pan  with  water  to  cover, 
sprinkle  flour,  salt  and  pepper  over  meat,  cover  and  put 
in  stove  and  cook  until  tender. 

BROILED  QUAIL  ON  TOAST— Dress  and  wash  clean; 
have  a  hot  baker  on  stove ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  table- 
spoon of  butter  rubbed  over  quail ;  put  a  top  over  it  and  a 
heavy  weight  to  hold  it  down;  turn  often  and  cook 
slowly  until  done,  but  not  dry;  brown  two  slices  of  bread 
nicely ;  pour  melted  butter  over  pieces  and  serve  between 
bread. 

SQUIRREL  FRIED — Take  a  squirrel,  cut  in  small  pieces,  put 
in  vessel  of  water  and  boil  till  tender;  take  out  and  roll 
thoroughly  in  flour;  season  with  salt  and  black  pepper; 
have  skillet  of  hot  grease  and  fry  till  brown ;  take  out  and 
make  a  nice  brown  gravy;  return  squirrel  to  gravy  and 
let  cook  in  that  for  a  while. 

—11— 


BAKED  HAM — Take  Armour  ham,  wash  and  scrape 
thoroughly;  put  ham  on  top  of  stove  in  roaster  half  full 
of  cold  water;  let  stay  on  top  of  stove  till  it  begins  to  boil, 
then  set  in  stove  and  let  cook  two  or  three  hours,  accord- 
ing to  size ;  keep  tightly  covered  until  done. 

MEXICAN  HASH — Cut  into  small  pieces  any  cold  meat, 
beef,  veal  or  pork,  add  cold  potatoes,  bread  crumbs,  two 
onions,  a  little  garlic,  celery  seed,  red  pepper,  salt  and 
black  pepper  to  taste,  a  little  butter,  put  into  a  skillet  with 
a  little  hot  lard;  after  cooking  a  while,  add  one  can  of 
tomatoes;  let  cook  until  thoroughly  mixed  and  rather 
dry ;  serve  hot  on  buttered  toast.  Be  sure  and  have  plen- 
ty of  onions  and  pepper  and  it  will  be  true  Mexican 
style. 

ROAST  TURKEY— Dress  nicely  and  put  on  ice  all  night, 
then  wash  and  put  in  roasting  pan  (never  boil),  grease 
all  over  with  lard,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  fill  roasting 
pan  about  half  full  of  water;  put  in  stove  and  let  cook 
slowly;  keep  tightly  covered,  baste  often;  when  nearly 
done  make  a  dressing  as  for  baked  chicken  and  stuff;  if 
you  like  a  few  oysters  may  be  added  to  dressing;  when 
well  done,  serve  on  dish  garnished  with  slices  of  hard 
boiled  eggs,  celery  leaves  arranged  around  dish. 

ASPARAGUS  LOAF— Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  of 
flour,  four  eggs,  one  scant  tablespoon  of  gelatine,  juice  of 
one  lemon,  one  can  asparagus  tips,  one  pint  of  whipped 
cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Heat  the  butter  and  sift 
the  flour  into  a  little  water  and  stir  up  and  add  to  butter 
in  double  boiler.  Beat  the  eggs  well  and  pour  over  them 
the  butter  mixture  stirring  the  eggs  constantly,  put  this 
again  in  a  double  boiler,  cook  until  eggs  are  done,  stirring 
constantly  until  leaving  fire.  Add  dissolved  gelatine, 
lemon  juice  and  salt  and  pepper,  when  cool  add  four  kitch- 
en spoons  of  whipped  cream.  Line  molds  with  asparagus 
tips  and  pour  in  the  custard  putting  asparagus  layer  on 
top.     Set  on  ice  to  congeal  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

—12— 


CREOLE  CHICKEN — One  chicken,  one  onion,  one  can  to- 
matoes, one  can  mushrooms,  one  green  pepper,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Boil  chicken  tender  and  then  cut  in 
pieces. 

SAUCE  FOR  THE  CHICKEN— Cut  the  onion  into  small 
pieces  and  fry  in  butter  until  yellow  using  a  skillet,  cut 
into  this  one  green  pepper,  one  can  tomatoes,  one  can 
mushrooms,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one  teaspoon  Wor- 
cestershire, one  teaspoon  sugar.  Cook  this  mixture  until 
thoroughly  done;  then  add  chicken;  cover  and  let  cook 
until  well  seasoned. 

SPANISH  MEAT  BALLS— Grind  with  meat  chopper  one 
pound  of  raw  beef,  then  chop  a  tablespoon  of  onions,  add 
a  cup  full  of  bread  crumbs  dried  and  ground,  black  pep- 
per and  salt  and  one  raw  egg.  Mix  thoroughly  and  roll 
into  balls.  Put  about  three  tablespoons  of  fat  or  oil  of 
any  kind  in  frying  pan  and  fry  a  medium  size  onion  in 
it.  Take  about  one  can  of  tomatoes  and  press  through  a 
collander  and  put  on  stove  and  stew  until  thick,  about 
an  hour.  Fry  your  meat  balls  after  adding  a  little  onion. 
Salt  and  pepper  and  some  parsley,  then  stew  them  in 
sauce  about  an  hour.  If  sauce  gets  too  thick  add  hot 
water. 

CREOLE  OYSTERS — One  can  tomato  soup,  one  green  pep- 
per, one-half  small  onion,  one  stick  of  celery,  one  table- 
spoon flour,  two  of  butter ;  put  butter  in  bottom  of  spider, 
add  onion,  when  brown  add  flour  and  pepper,  then  slow 
cook  until  thick,  season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper.  It 
is  best  to  boil  green  peppers  ten  minutes  before  cutting 
fine.  Drain  medium  sized  oysters,  put  layer  in  pan,  cover 
layer  with  Creole  sauce  and  sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs. 
Fill  pan  in  this  order  and  run  in  stove  for  a  few  min- 
utes.    This  is  a  delicious  dish. 

CHICKEN  RISSOLES— One  cup  finely  chopped  chicken  will 
make  six  rissoles.    Mix  with  chicken  twelve  finely  chop- 

—13— 


ped  stuffed  olives,  salt,  pepper  and  onions  to  taste.  With 
your  largest  biscuit  cutter  cut  from  rich  pie  crust  twelve 
rounds.  On  six  of  these  put  a  spoon  of  the  chicken  mix- 
ture, lay  the  other  six  rounds  on  these,  wet  the  edges 
with  cold  water  and  press  firmly  together  with  a  fork. 
Fry  brown  in  deep  fat.  They  may  be  dipped  in  egg  and 
bread  crumbs  before  frying  and  they  will  puff  up. 

GOULASH — Fry  out  two  large  slices  of  salt  pork.  Season 
one  pound  of  hamburger  steak  with  half  teaspoon  of  salt, 
a  generous  dash  of  pepper,  add  one  onion  minced,  crack- 
ers rolled,  add  two  tablespoons  of  water  to  moisten.  Form 
into  small  balls  and  fry  brown  in  the  pork  fat.  Break 
one-fourth  package  of  macaroni  and  boil  until  tender. 
Butter  two-quart  pan.  Put  in  layer  of  macaroni,  season- 
ing with  a  dash  of  salt  and  pepper,  then  a  layer  of  the 
meat  cakes,  using  the  fat  they  were  fried  in,  then  another 
layer  of  macaroni.  Pour  over  the  whole  one-half  can  of 
tomatoes,  cover  and  place  on  back  of  stove  and  let  sim- 
mer for  two  hours  but  be  careful  not  to  scorch. 


FISH 


BAKED  RED  SNAPPER  (DELICIOUS)— Take  a  red  snap- 
per and  fill  the  inside  with  dressing  made  by  recipe  as 
given  for  baked  chicken,  then  pour  a  can  of  tomatoes,  half 
a  cup  of  tomato  catsup,  two  tablespoons  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  sprinkle  flour  over  all  and  add  a  little  water; 
baste  often,  and  cook  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Bake  inside  of  stove;  serve  with  sliced  lemon  over  the 
fish. 

BAKED  CATFISH— Wash  and  dry  fish  and  lay  in  pan; 
fill  pan  about  half  full  of  water;  lay  slices  of  fat  bacon 
on  top ;  butter  may  be  used  in  place  of  bacon ;  when  thor- 
oughly done  and  brown,  thicken  gravy  and  serve  with 
dressing  as  follows:  Beat  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  two 
tablespoonsful  of  cream,  one  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one- 
half  cup  of  vinegar ;  boil  together  until  thick.  Beat  whites 
stiff  and  beat  into  sauce  and  serve  cold  over  fish. 

FISH  DRESSING  NO.  2— Moisten  bread  crumbs  with 
melted  butter,  season  with  chopped  pickle,  lemon  juice,  a 
trace  of  powdered  herbs,  salt  and  pepper,  add  a  little  cold 
water  if  needed. 

FISH  CHOWDER— Cut  in  half  one  dozen  medium  sizeu 
perch  or  trout,  one  dozen  Irish  potatoes  peeled  and  sliced, 
one  dozen  sliced  or  one  can  of  tomatoes,  one  pound  of  fat 
sliced  bacon,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  dozen  onions,  sliced 
thin;  cover  the  bottom  of  pan  with  a  layer  of  bacon,  then 
a  layer  of  fish,  potatoes,  onions,  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  then 
a  layer  of  bacon,  fish,  etc.,  until  it  is  all  in  the  pan,  then 
add  sauce  and  a  little  water;  cover  closely  and  cook  slowly 

—15— 


for  three  hours  on  top  of  stove.  Do  not  stir;  lift  from 
pan  with  a  ladle.  Do  not  break  more  than  necessary. 
Lessen  the  quantity  of  everything  in  proportion  for  a 
small  family.    This  is  very  fine. 

BOILED  SALMON  WITH  SAUCE— Drop  unopened  can  of 
salmon  into  a  pot  of  water  and  boil  for  one  hour. 

SAUCE  FOR  SAME— Three  hard  boiled  eggs;  take  the 
yolks  and  rub  into  them  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a 
little  salt  and  red  pepper;  one-quarter  pound  of  melted 
butter,  juice  of  one  lemon  and  chopped  whites  of  the 
eggs;  just  before  serving  open  can  of  salmon  and  pour 
liquor  into  sauce.  Serve  salmon  with  creamed  Irish  po- 
tatoes. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL— Two  dozen  oysters  or  more ;  put  half 
cup  of  tomato  catsup,  two  tablespoons  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  juice  of  a  lemon,  salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste,  one 
teaspoon  of  vinegar.     Thoroughly  chill  before  serving. 

STUFFED  CRABS — One  large  can  of  crabs,  six  soda  crack- 
ers; roll  fine;  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  one  raw  egg,  table- 
spoon of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk;  salt  to  taste; 
make  pretty  hot  with  red  pepper;  one  teaspoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  pinch  of  mustard ;  mix  thoroughly ; 
fill  shells  lightly,  then  sprinkle  some  of  the  rolled  crackers 
over  the  top  of  each;  set  in  stove  and  let  brown.  Serve 
hot  with  sliced  lemon. 

SCALLOPED  FISH— Boil  the  fish  and  pick  it  fine ;  boil  one 
pint  of  sweet  milk  with  one  onion;  strain  out  the  onion, 
put  the  milk  on  again;  add  one-quarter  pound  of  butter 
with  a  very  little  flour  stirred  in.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste;  let  it  boil  to  the  consistency  of  very 
thick  cream;  put  in  baking  dish  by  alternate  layers  of 
fish  and  cream ;  then  add  layer  of  cracker  crumbs,  butter 
salt  and  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon;  bake  fif- 
teen minutes. 


-16— 


SALMON  BALLS — Remove  the  bones,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste ;  make  balls  and  roll  in  meal ;  fry  in  very  hot  lard 
till  brown. 

OYSTER  CROQUETTES— One  quart  of  oysters,  one  pint 
of  chicken,  a  scant  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  the  yolk  of  two 
eggs,  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Chop  oysters  and  chicken  very  fine ;  soak  bread  crumbs  in 
oyster  liquid,  then  mix  all  ingredients  and  shape  in  cones ; 
dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  brown. 

OYSTER  PATTIES — Take  of  oysters  according  to  the  num- 
ber to  be  served  and  put  them  in  the  same  pan  with  but- 
ter, pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  flour ;  stir  and  let  simmer  for 
a  few  minutes  on  the  stove ;  bake  shells  of  rich  puff  paste 
in  patty  tins,  also  small  rounds  for  covers  and  set  in  the 
oven  for  five  minutes.  They  should  be  served  immed- 
iately. 

OYSTER  OMELET— Make  a  nice  omelet  and  just  before 
turning  it  over  fill  the  center  with  oyster  filling,  prepar- 
ed as  for  patties ;  asparagus  and  mushrooms  can  be  used 
in  the  same  manner. 

BROILED  OYSTERS— After  paring  crusts  from  six  slices 
of  bread,  toast  a  rich  brown  and  place  on  heated  platter; 
put  can  with  butter  on  back  of  stove  where  it  will  melt 
but  not  cook ;  drain  and  carefully  wipe  two  dozen  oysters. 
After  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper,  drop  on  very  hot 
griddle;  turn  almost  instantly  and  quickly  remove  from 
griddle  to  sauce  of  melted  butter;  after  the  oysters  are 
broiled,  place  four  on  each  slice  of  toast;  pour  on  the 
melted  butter  and  serve  hot. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS  AND  PEPPERS— Heat  one  quart  of 
oysters  to  boiling  point,  drain  and  make  a  sauce  of  the 
liquor  by  adding  cream,  butter,  flour,  salt  and  pepper; 
add  to  the  oysters.  Cut  stems  out  of  peppers  and  remove 
seed;  put  oysters  into  these  cases;  sprinkle  buttered 
cracker  crumbs  over  top  and  brown.     Serve  on  toast. 

—17— 


TROUT  STUFFED  AND  FRIED  MEXICAN  STYLE— 

Stuff  the  trout  with  cold  cooked  red  fish,  chopped  mush- 
rooms, bread  crumbs,  lemon  juice  and  two  well  beaten 
eggs;  dip  fish  in  oil,  then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  rich 
brown.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce  and  capers. 

SALMON  A  LA  REINE— Put  into  a  frying  pan  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter ;  when  melted  stir  in  a  tablespoonf  ul  of 
flour;  make  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  a  gill  of  water,  one 
lemon,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one  small  onion,  minced 
fine,  yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs  mashed ;  then  put  in 
contents  of  one  can  of  salmon  and  let  simmer  five  min- 
utes; cut  whites  in  rings  and  place  on  salmon  after  it  is 
in  the  dish.     Good  hot  or  cold. 

COD  FISH  BALLS — Take  package  of  cod  fish  or  as  much 
as  needed  and  boil  in  good  deal  of  water;  drain  off  and 
boil  again  in  more  water  until  tender.  Pick  all  the  bones 
out  thoroughly,  then  mash  up  with  as  much  boiled  Irish 
potatoes  as  fish  and  season  with  black  pepper ;  make  into 
small  cakes  and  drop  into  hot  grease  and  fry  till  brown. 


—18- 


BREAD 

WAFFLES  NO.  2 — One  egg  beaten  separately,  one  cup  but- 
ter milk,  little  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  two  tea- 
spoons Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  heaping  tablespoon  of 
lard,  flour  enough  to  make  batter  just  a  little  stiff. 

MUFFINS — Two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three 
tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  one  egg,  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  two  tablespoonsful  of  Royal  Baking  Pow- 
der; cook  in  muffin  tins. 

SPOON  BREAD — Three  eggs,  three  cups  buttermilk,  one 
cup  corn  meal,  one  teaspoon  soda,  salt  and  a  lump  of  but- 
ter; bake  in  a  pan  one-half  hour. 

CORN  BREAD — One  pint  of  meal,  one  level  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  level  teaspoon  of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  about 
a  light  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  buttermilk  enough  to 
make  a  nice  batter.  First  sift  meal  then  put  everything 
in,  then  pour  a  little  boiling  water  on  meal;  put  heap- 
ing spoon  of  grease  in  pan  and  let  get  hot;  pour  in  mix- 
ture and  bake. 

BUTTERMILK  BISCUIT— One  quart  flour,  two  heaping 
tablespoon  lard,  two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder, 
one-half  teaspoon  soda,  mixed  with  flour,  two  teaspoons 
salt;  mix  with  buttermilk;  make  rather  stiff  dough,  roll 
thin ;  cut  and  place  one  on  top  of  other  and  bake  quickly. 

SPOON  BREAD  No.  2 — Use  the  real  Southern  corn  meal 
and  scald  one  and  a  half  cups  thoroughly ;  allow  to  stand 
till  cool;  beat  three  eggs  separately,  add  yolks  to  three 
cups  of  milk,  then  stir  in  the  meal ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt ;  melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  add  a 
teaspoon  of  Royal  Baking  Powder  and  the  whites  of 
eggs ;  turn  into  a  buttered  dish  or  pan  and  cook  in  a  mod- 

— 19r- 


erate  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  it  is  the 
consistency  of  a  thick  custard.  Send  to  table  in  the  dish 
and  serve  with  a  spoon. 

FLANNEL  CAKES— Take  one  pint  of  flour  and  sift  one 
full  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  Royal  Baking  Powder, 
sift  with  flour';  add  one  heaping  teaspoonful  sugar,  one 
level  spoon  salt,  one  and  one-third  pints  of  buttermilk,  one 
egg.  Beat  all  together  well  and  have  batter  pretty 
thick;  have  griddle  medium  hot  and  grease  with  bacon 
rind. 

BEATEN  BISCUITS — One  quart  flour,  two  ounces  lard, 
one  large  teacup  of  sweet  milk;  mix  into  a  stiff  dough, 
beat  or  run  through  the  machine  for  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes,  till  the  dough  blisters  and  is  smooth.  It  may 
then  be  rolled  and  cut;  stick  with  fork  which  should 
penetrate  the  board.  Bake  in  quick  oven.  An  addi- 
tional ounce  of  butter  will  make  a  richer  biscuit  if  de- 
sired. 

BUTTERMILK  BISCUITS— One  level  teaspoon  of  soda, 
one  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  rounding  teaspoon  Royal 
Baking  Powder,  one  large  heaping  tablespoon  of  lard, 
two  cups  fresh  buttermilk;  mix  all  together;  work  in 
flour  to  make  soft  dough ;  roll  thin,  cut  with  small  cutter 
and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

A  RECIPE  FOR  TWELVE  MUFFINS— One  tablespoon  of 
butter,  one  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  cups 
flour,  two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder;  beat  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  cream,  beat  eggs  and  add  gradually,  then 
add  milk  flour  and  Royal  Baking  Powder;  mix  well  and 
divide  into  warm  buttered  muffin  pans;  bake  in  moder- 
ate oven  for  twenty  minutes. 

SALLIE  LUNN — One  quart  of  flour,  one  tablespoon  salt, 
one  teaspoon  of  sugar;  rub  in  heaping  tablespoon  butter 
and  lard  mixed  in  equal  parts,  one  boiled  Irish  potato 
mashed  fine;  make  up  dough  with  one-half  teacup  of 

—20— 


yeast,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  enough  warm  water  to  make 
consistency  of  lightbread  dough ;  knead  well ;  when  it  has 
risen  put  it  lightly  into  a  cake  mold  for  the  second  rising 
when  it  has  risen  the  second  time  bake  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven. 

BISCUITS— Two  rounding  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking 
Powder,  one  level  teaspoon  salt,  one  large  heaping  table- 
spoon of  lard,  about  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  sweet  milk; 
pour  milk  into  other  ingredients  and  add  gradually  flour 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough ;  roll  out  and  cut  with  small 
cutter  and  bake  in  hot  oven  a  few  minutes  before  ready 
to  serve. 

QUICK  ROLLS — Sift  three  cups  of  flour  into  a  bread  bowl, 
make  a  hole  in  the  center  and  put  into  it  one  tablespoon 
of  lard  or  butter  melted,  one  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  one 
cake  of  Fleischman's  yeast,  dissolve  in  half  a  cup  of 
luke  warm  sweet  milk;  add  the  white  of  one  egg  well 
beaten ;  knead  very  little ;  put  to  rise  for  two  "hours,  then 
make  into  rolls  and  let  rise  one  hour,  then  bake ;  these  can 
be  made  after  breakfast  and  baked  for  luncheon.  This 
quantity  makes  one  goodsized  pan  of  rolls. 

DATE  MUFFINS— Cream  two  tablespoons  butter  with 
one-quarter  cup  sugar;  add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  then 
one  cup  milk  and  two  cups  flour  sifted  with  two  tea- 
spoons Royal  Baking  Powder;  beat  thoroughly  and  add 
pinch  of  salt  and  one  cup  dates  cut  fine.  Bake  in  quick 
oven.     These  make  a  delicious  luncheon  or  supper  dish. 

DELICATE  MUFFINS— Three  cups  of  sifted  flour,  two 
teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  level  teaspoon  salt, 
one  egg,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  tablespoons  melted  Snow- 
drift lard;  sift  together  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  pow- 
der; add  egg  well  beaten,  then  add  milk  and  beat,  then 
add  melted  Snowdrift  lard;  beat  well  and  bake  in  hot 
greased  muffin  tins. 

CINNAMON  ROLLS— Put  two  tablespoons  butter  into 
one  pint  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  Royal    Baking    Powder, 

—21— 


one-half  teaspoon  salt,  two-thirds  cup  of  milk;  add  one 
egg  well  beaten,  mix  lightly  and  roll  into  thin  sheet; 
spread  lightly  with  butter,  dust  over  four  or  five  table- 
spoons sugar  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon,  make  into 
pocket-book  rolls  or  roll  and  cut ;  let  rise  twenty  minutes. 
This  makes  two  dozen  rolls. 

WAFFLES — Make  batter  with  one  quart  of  flour,  one 
quart  sour  milk,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  three  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  one  teaspoon  soda  and  half  tea- 
spoon salt. 

LIGHT  ROLLS,  FRENCH  STYLE— Take  one  cake  of 
Fleischman's  yeast  cake,  dissolve  in  pint  of  warm  water, 
one  quart  flour,  two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  tablespoon  of 
lard,  sift  flour,  add  sugar  and  work  lard  into  it  and  make 
into  a  stiff  batter  with  the  water  the  yeast  cake  has  been 
dissolved  in,  put  the  eggs  in  batter  and  beat  together 
thoroughly ;  season  with  salt  to  taste ;  put  in  warm  place 
to  rise  till  it  is  light  and  foamy,  then  add  about  a  quart 
of  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough ;  knead  till  smooth,  then  let 
rise  again,  then  pinch  off  your  rolls  and  place  in  pan 
without  working ;  set  in  moderate  hot  stove  and  bake ;  be- 
fore baking  grease  over  the  top  of  the  bread,  also  grease 
your  pan  before  putting  bread  in  for  baking. 

POTATO  ROLLS— Two  cups  mashed  Irish  potatoes,  1-2 
cup  ground  meat,  salt  to  taste,  a  dash  of  pepper,  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice,  one  tablespoon  of  parsley  chopped 
fine,  one  egg,  bread  crumbs  to  mix.  Add  salt,  pepper, 
onion  juice  and  a  little  of  parsley  to  the  mashed  potatoes 
and  a  little  cold  milk.  Flatten  out  a  spoonful  of  potatoes 
and  take  one  spoon  chopped  meat,  add  salt,  pepper  and 
rest  of  parsley  to  meat,  and  put  on  potatoes  and  roll  the 
potatoes  around  the  meat,  take  raw  and  dip  roll  into 
same  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Make  rolls 
two  and  three  inches  long. 

A  GOOD  ROLL — Cook  well  done,  enough  Irish  potatoes  to 
amount  to  one  and  half  cups  when  run  through  ricer,  dis- 
solve one  cake  of  yeast  in  one  cup  of  tepid  water,  to  the 

—22— 


potatoes  add  two  eggs  beaten  light,  one  half  cup  sugar, 
then  the  yeast.  Add  one  cup  flour,  one  of  sweet  milk  al- 
ternately beating  with  egg  whip.  If  necessary  add  more 
flour  to  make  as  thick  as  for  batter  cakes.  Let  rise  twice 
its  bulk  in  warm  place  free  from  drafts.  Make  into 
smooth  dough  with  one  quart  flour,  one  heaping  tea- 
spoon salt  and  one  cooking  spoon  of  lard,  in  winter  it 
takes  batter  about  two  hours  to  rise,  in  summer  not  so 
long.  Roll  out,  make  into  small  rolls  and  put  in  a  greased 
pan,  grease  tops,  cover,  let  rise  about  one  hour  and  bake. 

ROXBURY  DROPS— Cream  half  cup  sugar  with  quarter 
cup  butter,  stir  in  half  cup  of  molasses  and  half  cup  sour 
milk.  With  this  mix  one  and  a  half  cups  sifted  flour, 
half  teaspoon  cloves,  one  of  cinnamon  and  a  little  nut- 
meg, beat  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  add,  stir  in  one-half  cup 
seedless  raisins,  one-half  cup  chopped  nuts  rolled  in  a 
little  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  little  boiling 
water  and  last  the  whites  stiffly  beaten.  The  dough 
should  be  quite  stiff,  if  necessary  use  little  more  flour. 
Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a  buttered  tin  leaving  space  be- 
tween to  spread,  bake  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

CINNAMON  ROLLS— Make  a  good  biscuit  dough  either 
with  Royal  Baking  Powder  or  soda  and  sour  milk,  roll 
one-half  inch  thick,  spread  liberally  with  butter  and 
sprinkle  with  light  brown  sugar  and  sift  cinnamon  light- 
ly over  the  sugar,  roll  up,  beginning  at  one  edge,  moisten 
the  edge  so  it  will  hold  the  roll,  cut  in  slices  about  one 
and  a  half  inches,  stand  on  end  and  bake.  These  are 
fine  to  eat  with  coffee. 

PEANUT  STRAWS— Make  a  nice  rich  pastry,  roll  it  out 
and  spread  one-half  with  softened  peanut  butter,  wet  the 
edges  of  the  crust  and  fold  the  remaining  half  over  it. 
Roll  lightly  with  a  rolling  pin  and  prick  here  and  there 
with  a  fork  to  prevent  puffing  up.  Cut  in  strips  about 
one  inch  wide  and  three  long,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until 
lightly  browned  and  brush  over  with  sweet  milk. 

—23— 


VEGETABLES 


CORN  FRITTERS — One  can  corn  through  meat  grinder, 
measure  a  pint,  add  two  eggs  beaten,  one  teaspoon  of 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon of  milk  and.  enough  flour  to  make  it  possible  to 
handle,  make  into  little  cakes,  using  as  little  flour  as 
possible ;  drop  into  hot  fat  and  fry  deep  brown.  Serve  very 
hot  after  draining. 

BROILED  EGG  PLANT  (MEXICAN  STYLE)— Soak 
slices  of  egg  plant  in  highly  seasoned  olive  oil,  using  all 
kinds  of  herbs  in  it ;  broil  slices  on  hot  griddle  and  serve 
with  tomato  sauce. 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  VINAIGRETTE  DRESSING— Re- 
move asparagus  from  can  to  platter,  four  tablespoons 
vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  three  tablespoonsful  of 
olive  oil,  little  minced  parsley,  quarter  of  chopped  onion, 
one  quarter  pint  of  olives,  chopped  fine,  pinch  of  sugar. 

SQUASH  COOKED  MEXICAN  STYLE— Take  baking  dish 
or  pan,  tablespoon  of  grease,  layer  of  raw  sliced  squash 
and  layer  of  fresh  sliced  tomatoes,  and  a  layer  of  onions ; 
season  with  red  pepper  and  salt;  cut  up  one  green  pep- 
per, repeat  the  layers  until  pan  is  nearly  full ;  put  in  few 
pieces  of  butter  over  the  whole,  cover  tight  and  cook  in 
slow  oven. 

BEANS — String  and  put  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  with  a 
piece  of  fat  meat  and  boil  for  two  hours  or  till  well  done. 
Salt  to  taste. 

EGG  PLANT — Slice  and  peel  egg  plant  and  put  on  to  boil, 
water  enough  to  cover,  mash  up  and  add  a  half  cup  of 
flour,  for  one  eggplant  add  one  egg,  enough  sweet  milk  to 

—24— 


make  a  thick  batter ;  salt  to  taste  and  use  plenty  of  black 
pepper;  put  tablespoon  of  grease  in  skillet  and  get  hot 
and  make  egg  plant  into  small  cakes  and  fry  brown.  Add 
more  flour  if  needed. 

CAULIFLOWER — Trim  off  the  outside  leaves  of  a  nice 
fresh  cauliflower,  tie  up  in  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  and  put 
into  well  salted  boiling  water.  Boil  for  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes,  being  careful  to  take  out  as  soon  as  tender  or  it 
will  fall  to  pieces,  drain  and  separate  into  little  flower- 
ettes,  put  in  baking  dish,  pour  over  cream  sauce,  sprinkle 
thickly  with  grated  cheese  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 
Omit  cheese  if  desired. 

SPINACH — Pick  and  wash  thoroughly,  put  in  a  little  hot 
water  and  boil  about  half  an  hour,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  pour  melted  butter  over  it  and  slice  several 
hard  boiled  eggs  over  the  whole. 

STUFFED  IRISH  POTATOES— Take  as  many  medium- 
sized  potatoes  as  needed,  wash  and  bake  whole  with 
skins  on,  inside  of  stove ;  when  done,  cut  off  one  end  and 
take  a  small  spoon  and  scoop  out  the  inside  without 
breaking  the  peeling;  take  the  pulp  of  the  potato,  mix  it 
up  with  sweet  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  a  tiny 
bit  of  ground  onion,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  refill  hulls 
with  mixture  and  put  back  in  stove  with  cut  ends  up  and 
let  brown.     Serve  hot  in  hulls. 

IRISH  POTATO  CHIPS — Take  as  many  potatoes  as  need- 
ed, wash  and  peel  and  slice  very  thin  on  a  potato  slicer, 
then  let  stand  in  cold  water  while  your  skillet,  half  full  of 
cooking  oil  or  lard,  is  getting  hot,  then  drain  thoroughly 
and  put  just  a  few  potatoes  at  a  time  in  the  pan  and  stir 
around  lightly  in  grease  until  a  light  brown,  then  take 
out  quickly  before  they  get  too  brown;  drain  off  grease 
thoroughly  as  you  take  them  up.  Serve  hot  with  a  little 
salt  sprinkled  over  them.  Never  try  to  fry  potatoes  in 
salty  grease,  and  never  salt  till  ready  to  serve. 

—25— 


FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES — Peel  potatoes  and  slice  in 
strips  as  big  as  your  little  finger.  Stand  in  cold  water 
for  a  while,  then  fry  in  hot  grease  until  brown.  Serve 
hot  with  a  little  salt  sprinkled  over  them. 

SQUASH — Boil  whole,  young,  tender  squash,  mash  up  and 
fry  in  hot  grease ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  butter 
and  chopped  onion.     Let  fry  down  brown. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES — Peel  and  slice  not  too  thin, 
pour  boiling  water,  amount  needed,  over  them  with  a 
handful  of  salt  thrown  into  water ;  let  stand  a  while  then 
fry  in  moderate  hot  skillet  till  nicely  brown. 

SWEET  POTATOES  IN  THE  PAN— Slice  as  for  frying, 
put  in  pan  one  cup  or  more  of  sugar  according  to  amount 
of  potatoes,  one  spoonful  of  butter  and  a  good  pinch  of 
salt.  Fill  pan  about  half  full  of  water,  put  in  bottom  of 
stove  and  let  cook  until  syrup  is  thick  and  potatoes  brown 
Serve  hot  in  pan. 

SWEET  POTATO  PONE — Grate  a  few  potatoes,  as  much 
as  needed,  and  add  enough  sugar  to  sweeten,  two  cups 
sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  butter  and  three  eggs,  little  nut- 
meg.    Bake  slowly  till  thoroughly  done. 

ASPARAGUS  ON  TOAST— Take  bread  sliced  thin  and 
brown  nicely,  make  a  nice  dressing  of  sweet  milk,  table- 
spoon of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  thicken 
with  about  half  cup  sifted  flour,  open  can  of  asparagus 
tips,  put  into  dressing  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Don't  put 
asparagus  into  dressing  until  it  gets  thick.  Serve  about 
three  or  four  pieces  of  asparagus  on  a  piece  of  toast  with 
dressing  poured  over.     Serve  hot. 

MUSHROOMS — Open  can  and  cook  for  a  short  while,  and 
make  a  dressing  just  like  asparagus  and  cook  in  that  for 
a  while. 

BAKED  TOMATOES— Take  tomatoes,  as  many  as  people 
you  have  to  serve,  scoop  out  inside,  chop  up  and  mix  with 
mushrooms,  a  few  crackers  rolled,  one  spoon  of  butter, 

—26— 


salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  replace  in  tomatoes,  sprinkle  a 
few  cracker  crumbs  over  tomatoes  and  a  little  melted 
butter  and  let  brown. 

STEWED  TOMATOES— Take  one  can  of  tomatoes,  pour 
into  skillet  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  two  cold  biscuits 
crumbled  up,  one  spoon  of  butter,  salt  to  taste  with  a  lit- 
tle black  pepper,  stew  down  until  almost  candy. 

FRIED  GREEN  TOMATOES— Slice  green  tomatoes,  salt 
and  pepper  some  meal  like  you  were  going  to  fry  fish,  dip 
your  tomatoes  in  meal  and  fry  in  hot  grease.  Serve  hot 
on  flat  dish. 

DEVILED  TOMATOES— Take  two  or  three  large  tomatoes 
not  over-ripe,  cut  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  and  lay 
on  a  sieve,  make  a  dressing  of  one  tablespoon  of  butter, 
one  of  vinegar,  rub  smooth  with  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled 
eggs,  add  a  very  little  sugar,  salt,  mustard  and  cayenne 
pepper;  beat  until  smooth  and  heat  to  a  boil,  take  from 
the  fire  and  pour  into  it  a  well  beaten  egg,  whip  into  a 
smooth  cream ;  put  the  vessel  containing  this  dressing  in 
hot  water  while  the  tomatoes  are  being  broiled  over  a 
clear  fire,  put  the  tomatoes  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  the 
dressing  over  them.  Cooked  in  this  way,  it  will  be  a  de- 
licious accompaniment  to  roast  chicken.     This  is  fine. 

STUFFED  BELL  PEPPER— Take  one  dozen  bell  peppers, 
cut  in  half;  take  out  seed,  take  one  small  can  of  com 
beef  hash  and  a  little  cold  beef  ground  up,  one  spoonful 
of  butter,  a  few  of  the  seeds  cut  up,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  a  tiny  bit  of  ground  onion,  five  or  six  rolled  crack- 
ers, season  highly  with  red  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix 
all  together  and  stuff  peppers,  sprinkle  a  little  of  the  roll- 
ed crackers  over  the  peppers  with  a  little  melted  butter 
poured  over  them,  put  in  a  pan  and  pour  a  quarter  inch 
of  water  in  pan  around  them.     Cook  until  done. 


SWISS  PEPPER— -Cut  off  the  tops  and  remove  the 
from  green  sweet  peppers,  wash  and  stuff  with  small 
pieces  of  left-over  meat,  chopped  fine,  one  cup  cf  soaked 

—27— 


bread  crumbs,  two  tomatoes,  seasoned  with  chopped  cel- 
ery and  a  little  extract  of  beef;  season  with  salt  and 
black  pepper  and  lump  of  butter;  arrange  pepper  in  bak- 
ing dish,  and  pour  wTater  in  about  half -inch  deep;  bake 
twenty  minutes;  serve  hot. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— Select  large  bell  peppers  and 
split  through  center ;  remove  the  seeds  and  stuff  with  the 
following:  Three  cups  of  any  ground  cold  meat,  one  cup 
of  grated  bread  crumbs  or  crackers,  two  eggs,  one  small 
onion,  one-half  cup  tomatoes,  run  through  a  sieve,  salt 
and  pepper,  mixed  together  with  sweet  milk  to  right  con- 
sistency. Stuff,  put  a  little  red  pepper  in  if  hot  things 
are  liked.  Place  small  bits  of  butter  over  each  pepper; 
bake  in  a  little  water  twenty  minutes. 

ITALIAN  STUFFED  TOMATOES— Cut  the  tops  from 
large  tomatoes  and  scoop  out  the  centers;  fill  with  left- 
over macaroni  and  cheese  and  the  tomatoes  that  come 
out  of  centers;  season  with  red  pepper,  dust  with  bread 
crumbs,  and  place  lump  of  butter  on  each  tomato;  place 
in  baking  pan  with  little  water  and  bake  till  tomatoes  are 
soft;  carefully  lift  and  place  each  one  on  buttered  toast; 
pour  over  a  white  sauce  to  which  a  hard  boiled  egg  and 
a  little  grated  cheese  have  been  added. 

DUCHESS  POTATOES— Half  a  dozen  fine  potatoes  mash- 
ed and  rubbed  through  a  sieve ;  add  a  little  cream  and  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  salt  and  a  little  pepper; 
beat  together  and  make  into  balls.  Brown  quickly  in  hot 
oven. 

STUFFED  EGG  PLANTS— Boil  the  egg  plants  whole. 
When  tender  cut  half  in  two  and  scoop  out  the  pulp ;  mix 
with  this  pulp  an  equal  quantity  of  toasted  bread  crumbs 
and  one  small  onion,  chopped  fine;  season  this  highly 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  replace  in  shells  and 
sprinkle  bread  crumbs  and  small  lumps  of  butter  on  top 
of  each  and  place  in  oven  to  brown. 


-26 — 


TURKEY  SANDWICHES— Take  bread,  cut  all  crust  off 
sides  and  put  a  nice  layer  of  turkey  with  mayonnaise  over 
it  and  cover  with  slice  of  bread. 

CHEESE  AND  PEPPER  SANDWICHES— One  and  a  half 
pounds  of  cheese,  three  bell  peppers,  slices  of  buttered 
bread;  remove  rind  from  the  cheese,  and  remove  seed 
and  white  pith  from  the  peppers;  grind  peppers  fine; 
mix  thoroughly  and  smoothly  with  mayonnaise  dressing, 
and  spread  between  slices  of  bread,  toast  the  cut  side  of 
the  sandwich.     Serve  hot  with  coffee. 

A  NICE  FILLING  FOR  SANDWICHES— Take  one  can  of 
deviled  ham,  one-half  bottle  of  Worcestershire  Sauce, 
one-third  of  a  pound  of  good  butter;  mix  all  together, 
keep  in  ice  box  for  several  days. 

PECAN  SANDWICHES— One  pound  pecan  meats,  one  cup 
grated  cheese ;  mix  enough  Ferndell  dressing  with  cheese 
ter,  then  with  cheese;  then  sprinkle  thick  with  pecans, 
to  make  a  paste;  slice  bread  very  thin,  spread  with  but- 
cover  with  another  slice  of  bread  from  which  all  the  out- 
side crusts  have  been  removed. 

RAISIN  SANDWICH— Grind  in  a  meat  chopper  1  lb.  of 
seedless  raisins.  Boil  1  cup  of  sugar  with  half  cup  of 
water  till  will  hair.  To  this,  add  the  ground  raisins  and 
stir  till  well  mixed.  Cut  small  slices  of  white  bread  and 
trim  off  the  crust,  spread  one  slice  with  peanut  butter, 
and  the  other  with  the  raisins.  Place  together  in  the 
usual  way.  One  teaspoonful  of  butter  can  be  added  to 
the  raisin  if  desired. 

—29— 


CLUB  SANDWICHES— Arrange  thin  slices  of  cooked  ba- 
con on  slices  of  bread,  cover  with  slices  of  cold  roast 
chicken  and  cover  chicken  with  mayonnaise  dressing, 
add  two  slices  of  iced  tomato  and  a  lettuce  leaf,  cover 
with  slice  of  bread.  The  bread  should  be  toasted  a  nice 
brown. 

RUSSIAN  SANDWICHES— Spread  zephyrettes  with  thin 
slices  of  Neufchatel  cheese,  cover  with  finely  chopped 
olives  moistened  with  mayonnaise  dressing;  place  zeph- 
yrette  over  each  and  press  together. 

SARDINE  CANAPES— Spread  circular  pieces  of  bread 
(toasted)  with  sardines,  from  which  the  bones  have  been 
removed,  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  a  small  quantity  of 
creamed  butter  and  seasoned  with  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne ;  place  in  the  center  of 
each  a  stuffed  olive  made  by  removing  stone  and  filling 
cavity  with  sardine  mixture.  Around  each,  arrange  a 
border  of  finely  chopped  whites  of  hard  boiled  eggs. 

EGG  AND  OLIVE  SANDWICHES— Chop  five  hard  boiled 
eggs  very  fine ;  stone  and  chop  fifteen  large  olives  and 
mix  with  the  egg,  moisten  all  with  three  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  mix  to  a 
moist  paste.  Spread  on  the  slices  of  bread  and  «over 
with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

TOMATO  AND  NUT  SANDWICH— Chop  three  medium 
sized  tomatoes,  add  small  green  pepper  chopped  fine  and 
one-half  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  and  a  dash  of  mayonnaise 
dressing;  place  on  lettuce  leaf  between  thin  slices  of 
white  bread,  cut  very  thin  and  spread  with  mayonnaise. 

PIMENTO  SANDWICH— To  one  fifteen-cent  box  of  pi- 
mentoes  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cheese,  grind  both 
cheese  and  pimentoes  fine,  drain  ci'f  juice  from  pimen- 
toes,  mix  together  with  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise,  have 
it  hot  with  red  pepper  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  slice  bread 

—30- 


thin  and  spread  mixture  on  slice  of  bread  and  cover  with 
another,  press  together.  Bread  should  be  trimmed  on 
edges. 

OLIVE  SANDWICHES— Slice  bread  very  thin  and  trim 
off  all  edges.  Get  stuffed  olives,  slice  round  so  the  red 
will  be  in  the  middle,  butter  bread  with  the  mayonnaise 
and  cover  with  the  sliced  olives;  press  a  thin  slice  of 
bread  over  the  top. 

A  SWEET  SANDWICH  FILLING— Take  two  tablespoons 
of  lemon  juice  to  four  of  peanut  butter,  add  one-half  cup 
of  chopped  pecans  and  one-half  cup  seeded  raisins,  mois- 
ten with  mayonnaise,  and  add  a  little  sugar  if  you  like. 


—31- 


DESSERTS 


ORANGE  PUDDING— For  a  family  of  six  take  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  two  heaping  tablespoons  corn  starch  dis- 
solved in  a  half-cup  of  the  milk,  two  heaping  tablespoons 
sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beaten  thoroughly,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt;  mix  all  together  and  cook  in  double  boiler; 
stir  constantly,  til  thick  and  smooth,  then  set  to  cool. 
Seed  and  cut  into  small  pieces  four  oranges,  add  one  cup 
of  sugar  to  the  oranges,  mix  oranges  and  custard  to- 
gether, then  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  into  a  me- 
ringe,  and  put  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of 
baking  powder  to  make  meringe  stand  up;  spread  over 
the  custard,  set  in  stove  and  brown.     Serve  cold. 

ITALIAN  CREAM— Soak  one-half  box  Knox  gelatine  in 
one  cup  water;  dissolve  over  vessel  of  warm  water,  add 
to  this  one  big  can  grated  pineapple,  one  cup  of  sugar; 
mix  all  together  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  strain  through  a 
coarse  muslin  cloth.  When  cool,  but  not  congealed,  add 
one  pint  of  whipped  cream;  put  on  ice  and  let  congeal. 
Serve  with  or  without  whipped  cream. 

FIG  PUDDING — One  cup  seeded  raisins,  one  cup  chopped 
figs,  one  cup  chopped  suet,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  one  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
one  of  ginger,  one  of  cinnamon,  one  of  nutmeg,  one  of 
salt.  Add  fruit,  flour  and  spices,  then  pour  in  liquids; 
steam  two  and  one-half  hours. 

SAUCE  FOR  SAME— One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  creamed  as  for  cake. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM  PUDDING— Three-fourths  cup  of 
butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and       e-half  one 

—32— 


cup  blackberry  jam,  three  eggs  beaten  separately,  three 
tablespoons  sour  cream,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  nut- 
meg, bake  and  serve  with  sauce. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING — One  pint  bread  crumbs,  press 
soaked  one  quart  of  milk;  beat  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and 
one  cup  of  sugar  with  one  tablespoon  butter,  three  table- 
spoons chocolate  grated  with  a  little  hot  water;  mix  all 
together  on  a  deep  pudding  dish;  bake  thirty  minutes; 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs 
very  light,  add  three  or  four  tablespoons  sugar  and 
spread  over  pudding;  brown  quickly. 

PRUNE  PUDDING  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM— Take  one 

pound  of  prunes,  wash  thoroughly  and  cover  with  cold 
water,  add  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of 
cinnamon;  let  cook;  when  nearly  done  add  two  teaspoons 
of  vinegar  with  a  little  flour  to  thicken;  let  cool.  Seed 
prunes  and  mash  through  collander,  sweeten  to  taste, 
add  seven  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  flavor  with  va- 
nilla and  bake  in  a  pan  of  water  for  an  hour,  serve  cold 
with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored. 

MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING— Soak  two  tablespoonsful 
of  Knox  Acidulated  gelatine  in  half  cup  of  cold  water  fif- 
teen minutes ;  add  to  this  one  pint  boiling  water  and  half 
the  acid.  Divide  this,  color  half  of  it  with  half  of  the 
fruit  tablet  contained  in  package.  Into  whites  of  four 
eggs  beaten  very  stiff, whip  one  and  a  third  cups  sugar; 
when  it  begins  to  congeal  whip  the  pink  into  half  of  the 
eggs  and  sugar  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time  and  pour  in 
mold  that  has  been  dipped  into  cold  water;  now  add  the 
white  gelatine  flavored  with  a  little  vanilla  to  the  other 
half  of  the  eggs ;  add  sugar,  and  when  the  pink  has  com- 
menced to  congeal  pour  the  whites  into  it;  to  remove 
from  mold,  dip  for  an  instant  in  hot  water;  serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING   NO.  2— Whites     of     eight 
eggs  'well  beaten,  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  gelatine, 


dissolved  in  two  cups  of  boiling  water ;  pour  this  slowly 
over  the  well-beaten  whites,  add  two  cups  sugar,  any  de- 
sired flavoring ;  beat  the  whole  a  half  hour ;  now  take  of 
color  one-half  pink  (with  fruit  coloring  in  to  pink  part 
beat  one  cup  of  chopped  pecans,  and  into  white  part  one 
cup  of  shredded  pineapples.  Put  into  mold  white  part  on 
top  of  pink  part,  let  stand  on  ice  firm,  slice  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

FRUIT  PUDDING— Three  eggs  well  beaten,  half  cup  of 
sugar,  three  tablespoons  flour,  package  of  seeded  dates, 
cut  up  fine,  one-fourth  pound  pecans,  cut  fine;  grease 
pudding  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  one  half -hour. 

DIPLOMATIC  PUDDING — One  pint  of  milk,  one-half  cup 
of  sugar,  put  on  to  boil,  add  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs 
and  stir  on  slow  fire;  add  one-half  box  gelatine  soaked 
in  cup  of  milk,  strain  and  let  cool ;  when  it  begins  to  con- 
geal, whip  a  pint  of  cream  into  the  congealed  part,  flavor 
with  two  tablespoons  of  sherry  wine,  rum  or  brandy. 
Take  layer  of  lady  fingers  and  cup  of  raisins,  put  in  lay- 
ers and  pour  the  custard  over  it.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

ORANGE  SPONGE— Cover  one-half  box  of  gelatine  with 
half  cup  of  water,  soak  ten  minutes,  press  juice  from  five 
large  oranges,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved. 
Whip  one-half  pint  of  cream,  put  orange  juice  in  pan,  and 
stand  in  another  pan  of  cracked  ice.  Stir  the  gelatine 
over  hot  water  until  dissolved,  add  it  to  the  orange  juice, 
stir  constantly;  just  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  congeal  add 
whipped  cream,  stir  it  up  together,  strain  and  serve  cold. 

CHOCOLATE  WHIPS— One  square  of  chocolate,  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  six  eggs  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Grate  chocolate 
fine  and  put  in  pan  with  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and 
one  of  boiling  water;  when  dissolved  add  it  to  one  and  a 
half  pints  of  sweet  milk,  which  should  be  hot,  in  a  double 
boiler;  beat  eggs  and  remainder  of  sugar  together,  stir 
constantly  till  it  begins  to  thicken,  add  salt  and  set  away 

—34— 


to  cool.  Season  one  pint  of  cream  with  two  tablespoons 
of  sugar,  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  whip  cream  to 
stiff  froth.  When  custard  is  cold,  half  fill  glasses  and 
whipped  cream  upon  it. 

PEACH  MARSHMALLOW  DESSERT— Take  one  pound  of 
marshmallows,  pour  them  in  a  large  bowl,  pour  over 
them  the  juice  from  a  large  can  of  peaches  and  set  in  ice 
box  all  night,  then  next  day  serve  with  whipped  cream 
and  cherries  over  the  cream.  You  may  use  pineapple 
juice  if  preferred. 

HEAVENLY  DESSERT— One-half  pound  white  grapes, 
cut  in  halves  and  seeded,  one-half  pound  English  walnut 
meats,  half  pound  marshmallows  cut  in  cubes,  half  a 
pound  sliced  pineapple,  cut  in  cubes;  pour  over  this  one- 
half  pint  whipped  cream,  sweetened.  Serve  very  cold  or 
frozen. 

FROZEN  PUDDING— Make  a  custard  as  for  plain  vanilla 
cream,  add  to  the  custard  two  tablespoons  soaked  gela- 
tine. When  ready  to  freeze  add  four  tablespoons  wine, 
freeze  ten  minutes,  add  one  pound  of  candied  fruit  and 
finish  freezing.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE— Soak  one-third  package  of  gela- 
tine in  three  tablespoons  cold  water;  pour  over  it  one- 
half  pint  of  sweet  milk  hot,  stir  until  gelatine  is  thor- 
oughly dissolved,  strain  the  mixture;  when  cool  stir  in 
one  quart  of  whipped  cream,  the  frothed  whites  of  three 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Pour  into  mold  lined  with 
slices  of  sponge  cake,  and  put  on  ice ;  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

STUFFED  APPLES— To  be  served  with  meat.  Select  ap- 
ples, core  and  bake  them,  fill  the  cavities  with  pecan 
meats  and  pour  over  them  sherry  wine  enough  to  flavor; 
serve  with  whipped  cream,  or  white  of  an  egg;  if  the  egg 
is  used  beat  it  well,  add  a  little  sugar  spread  over  the  top 
and  place  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

—35— 


A  NICE  LITTLE  DESSERT — Take  any  nice  cake  batter 
and  bake  in  muffin  or  small  cake  tins ;  when  cold  slice  off 
top  and  remove  a  part  of  center  of  cake,  fill  opening  with 
strawberries  or  chopped  oranges,  pineapple  or  any  other 
fruit,  replace  the  top  cover  with  whipped  cream,  sweeten- 
ed and  flavored  to  taste.  A  few  cherries  or  berries  scat- 
tered over  the  top  makes  a  very  attractive  dessert. 

JELLY  MARSKM ALLOW— Use  the  regular  jelly  rule,  but 
divide  it  into  three  parts,  flavoring  one  part  with  straw- 
berry, one  with  orange  and  one  with  canned  blueberry 
juice ;  put  each  color  into  an  individual  mold  and  turn  out 
on  a  platter.  For  sauce:  Boil  together  one  pint  water, 
one-half  pint  granulated  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  thick- 
en with  marshmallows  and  boil  until  clear,  adding  when 
nearly  done,  two  tablespoons  of  corn  starch,  whip  into 
this  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  flavor  with  vanilla 
and  one-half  teaspoon  of  rose  water;  pour  this  around 
the  jelly  when  nearly  cold  and  grate  nut  meats  over  it. 

ORANGE  ROLY  POLY— Make  a  dough  like  a  rich  biscuit 
dough ;  roll  out  into  sheets  half  as  long,  spread  this  with 
four  slices  oranges,  peeled  and  sliced  and  seeded,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  roll  up  the  dough,  pinching  the  ends  to- 
gether; tie  the  pudding  in  cloth,  allowing  the  ends  to 
swell,  then  drop  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  boil 
steadily  for  one  and  a  half  hours.  Transfer  from  cloth 
to  a  hot  dish.  Serve  with  hard  sauce  flavored  with  or- 
ange or  lemon. 

CARAMEL  PUDDING— Three  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  pinch  of  salt.  Car- 
amelize sugar,  beat  eggs  slightly,  scald  milk,  add  caramel 
to  milk  and  eggs  and  bake  in  pudding  dish. 

SAUCE — One-half  cup  of  sugar,  carameled,  add  cup  »f 
of  boiling  water,  cook  until  it  forms  a  syrup. 

SWEET  POTATO  AND  RAISIN  PUDDING— Boil  and  peel 
and  mash  potatoes,  sweeten  to  taste,  season  with  nut- 
meg, add  a  little  salt,  butter  and  as  many  seedless  raisins 
as  desired ;  mix  and  bake.     Serve  hot. 

—36— 


APPLE  TAPIOCA  PUDDING— One  teacup  of  tapioca,  one 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  water.  Let 
stand  several  hours  where  it  will  be  warm  but  not  cook, 
peel  six  tart  apples,  take  out  the  cores,  fill  them  with 
sugar  in  which  is  grated  a  little  nutmeg.  Put  apples  in 
pudding  dish,  over  these  pour  the  tapioca,  first  mixing 
it  with  one  teaspoon  of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  cold 
milk  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar.  Bake  one  hour,  serve 
with  sauce  or  whipped  cream.  Any  fresh  fruit  may  be 
used  intead  of  apples. 

NO.  1  ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING— One-half  pound 
stale  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  of  scalded  milk,  one-fourth 
pound  sugar,  four  eggs,  one-half  pound  of  seedless  rais- 
ins cut  fine  and  floured,  one-fourth  pound  currants,  one- 
fourth  pound  finely  chopped  figs,  two  ounces  finely  cut 
citron,  one-half  pound  suet,  one-fourth  cup  of  wine  and 
brandy  mixed,  one-half  of  a  grated  nutmeg,  three- 
fourths  of  a  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one-third  teaspoon 
cloves,  one-third  teaspoon  mace,  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons of  salt.  Soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk,  let  stand  un- 
til cool;  add  sugar,  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  fruit.  Chop 
suet  and  cream  with  the  hands,  then  add  wine,  brandy,, 
spices  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiffly.  Turn  into  but- 
tered mold  cover  and  steam  six  hours,  serve  with  sauce, 

ORANGE  JELL-0 — Two  packages  of  orange  Jell-O,  pour 
over  it  two  and  one-half  pints  boiling  water,  stir  until 
thoroughly  dissolved.  Put  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  in 
Jell-O,  cut  up  three  or  four  oranges  in  small  bits  without 
any  of  the  stringy  part  or  seed.  When  Jello  begins  to 
congeal  a  little,  put  one  cup  of  sugar  over  oranges,  mix 
and  pour  into  Jell-O,  stir  until  well  mixed,  set  in  cool  place 
for  the  night.    Serve  next  day  with  whipped  cream. 

CHERRY  DELIGHT— One-fourth  pound  of  butter,  one- 
fourth  pound  sugar,  three  small  eggs,  one-fourth  pound 
flour,  one-half  teaspoon  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  table- 
spoon of  thick  cream,  one-fourth  teaspoon  each  of  orange 

—37— 


and  vanilla,  one-half  cupful  of  crystalized  cherries,  one- 
third  cup  of  bleached  almonds,  one-third  cup  of  crystal- 
ized pineapple;  cream  the  butter  and  gradually  add  the 
sugar  until  very  light,  then  add  one  whole  egg  and  beat 
several  minutes;  sift  flour,  measure  and  sift  again  with 
baking  powder.  Beat  a  little  into  the  first  mixture  then 
add  another  egg;  when  this  is  beaten  lightly  add  more 
flour  then  the  cream  and  last  egg.  Drop  in  flavoring 
and  beat  briskly  for  ten  minutes.  Cut  fruit  into  small 
pieces,  roll  in  a  little  flour  and  stir  into  the  batter  just 
before  pouring  into  tins.  Bake  in  small  muffin  rings  in 
a  moderately  hot  oven.  When  ready  to  serve  cut  each 
one  with  a  sharp  knife  in  quarters  or  eights  so  that  they 
fall  open  like  a  flower.  Fill  the  centers  with  whipped 
cream  mixed  with  a  few  cut  marshmallows,  a  little  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  a  few  cherries  to  flavor. 

APPLE  DESSERT — Take  as  many  apples  as  needed,  peel 
and  core,  put  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  and  cover  with 
water  sufficient  to  boil  until  done.  Make  a  boiled  cus- 
tard in  double  boiler.  After  apples  are  done,  (don't 
break  them)  pour  the  custard  over  apples  and  take 
whites  of  eggs  and  make  meringe  and  put  over  the  whole, 
sprinkle  with  nutmeg  and  brown  slightly.     Serve  cold. 

CUSTARD  PUFFS— Boil  one  cup  hot  water,  half  cup  of 
butter.  While  boiling  stir  in  one  cup  of  sifted  flour; 
remove  from  fire  and  stir  to  a  smooth  paste.  When 
cool  add  three  unbeaten  eggs  and  stir  five  minutes ;  bake 
in  slow  oven,  just  drop  dabs  off  spoon  in  pan  to  make 
puffs. 

CUSTARD  FILLING— One  pint  milk,  three  eggs,  half  cup 
of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  corn  starch,  pinch  of  salt, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  teaspoon  vanilla ;  cream,  butter  and 
sugar  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  and  creamy, 
then  cut  off  top  of  puff  and  fill  with  the  custard. 

LEMON  PIGS— Take  a  whole  lemon,  leave  the  little  stub 
end  for  a  nose,  paint  underneath  with  ink  for  a  mouth, 

—38— 


dot  eyes  with  ink  and  cut  little  square  places  on  the  sides 
for  ears,  and  turn  the  peeling  back,  cut  off  the  rounding 
side  and  scoop  out  all  of  the  lemon.  Break  two  tooth 
picks  and  put  under  lemon  for  pigs  legs,  put  a  piece  of 
grape  vine  on  the  back  for  the  tail,  fill  up  through  the 
hole  on  the  side  with  chicken  salad,  with  mayonnaise  on 
top.  Take  lettuce  and  chop  fine,  put  pig  on  plate  and 
mound  lettuce  up  to  his  mouth  in  front  and  let  shred- 
ded lettuce  go  all  way  round  the  pig.  You  will  find  this 
a  very  attractive  dish  to  serve  for  a  child's  party. 

A  PRETTY  SHERBERT  FOR  AN  ENTERTAINMENT— 
Color  your  sherbert  green  with  fruit  coloring  and  serve 
in  tall  sherbert  glasses;  have  a  fane;/  plate  with  paper 
lace  doily  on  it  and  serve  glasses  of  sherbert  on  plate. 
Serve  with  white  whipped  cream  mounted  on  top  of  sher- 
bet and  lay  a  white  rose  with  green  leaves  on  one  side- 
of  plate  and  green  and  white  cake  on  the  other  side. 

WHITE  CARAMEL  FILLING  OR  CREAM  FILLING— 
Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  cream;  put  in 
double  boiler  until  sugar  is  dissolved;  let  boil  five  min- 
utes, lift  up  and  let  boil  a  little  more. 

CORN  PUDDING — To  one  can  of  corn  add  a  generous 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  teaspoon  of 
sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  two  tablespoons  of  melt- 
ed butler;  let  cook  in  slow  oven. 

ALMOND  BISQUE— Two  pints  of  sweet  milk,  one-half 
pint  shelled  almonds,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  of  butter. 
Begin  by  making  a  white  sauce  of  your  butter  and  milk. 
Blanch  your  almonds  by  pouring  hot  water  over  them 
and  taking  skin  off  and  while  hot  grind  and  run  in  hot 
oven  to  brown,  then  add  the  sauce  and  cook  three  or  four 
minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  This 
serves  fifteen  bouillon  cups  two-thirds  full.  One  spoon 
of  whipped  cream  dropped  in  each  cup  with  a  little  ground 
almonds  sprinkled  over  each  cup.     Serve  hot. 

CINNAMON  APPLES— Six  medium  sized  apples     peeled 

—39— 


and  cored,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  two  bananas,  one  cupful 
of  water,  one-half  cup  of  cinnamon  candy  drops.  Make  a 
syrup,  when  boiling  put  in  apples  stuffed  with  bananas 
or  two  or  three  cinnamon  drops,  then  put  into  syrup, 
sprinkle  rest  of  candy  over  apples.  This  makes  a  lovely 
pink  color  and  gives  a  delightful  flavor.  Put  in  dish  and 
serve  cold  with  meat. 

FRUIT  GELATINE — Half  dozen  oranges,  fifteen-cent  bot- 
tle maraschino  cherries  with  juice,  half  cup  sugar  one 
cup  cold  water,  one  enevelope  gelatine;  soak  gelatine 
first  in  cold  water  then  in  hot,  to  which  sugar  has  been 
added.  Set  away  to  cool  and  let  congeal.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

FISH  PUDDING — Two  pounds  fish,  two  eggs,  grated  on- 
ions to  taste.  Cook  fish  until  tender  in  a  little  water  to 
which  a  little  salt  has  been  added.  When  done  remove 
bones  and  mash.  To  the  fish  add  white  sauce-onion  and 
eggs  beaten  together  until  very  light.  Grease  mold,  put 
in  fish  mixture  and  set  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Allow  to 
steam  for  forty  minutes  keeping  water  just  below  boil- 
ing point.  Before  putting  into  oven  cover  pudding  with 
oiled  paper.     Garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and  parsley. 


—40- 


PIES 


OLD  FASHIONED  GREEN  APPLE  PIES— Take  one  or 
two  dozen  apples,  peel  and  cut  up,  put  on  top  of  stove 
with  a  little  water  in  pan  or  kettle,  let  boil  till  they  mash 
up,  strain  through  a  sifter,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  put  a 
good  sized  lump  of  butter  in  and  flavor  with  nutmeg. 
Bake  between  two  rich  crusts. 

APPLE  FLOAT — Fix  apples  just  like  above,  strain  and 
sweeten  to  taste,  let  get  cold,  beat  whites  of  three  eggs, 
beat  into  the  apples  until  light,  flavor  with  nutmeg. 
Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream,  with  a  little  sugar  in  it. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE— Make  a  rich  pie  crust,  roll 
very  thin  and  bake  on  flat  tin;  take  fresh  berries,  wash 
and  pick ;  put  sugar  over  them  and  mash  up ;  when  ready 
to  serve,  take  knife  and  spread  strawberries  over  a  layer 
of  pie  crust  and  so  on  until  you  fix  a  stack  four  or  five 
layers  high.  Make  a  sauce  as  follows:  Take  two  cups 
of  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  spoons  of 
sifted  flour,  pour  juice  out  of  pan  into  sauce,  slice  short 
cake,  and  serve  with  plenty  sauce  poured  over  it. 

APPLE  ROLL — Cut  up  apples  with  core  out,  make  rich  pie 
crust,  lay  it  half  across  pan  with  top  turned  back,  put  a 
good  deal  of  sugar  over  apples,  also  butter  and  sprinkle 
nutmeg  or  cinnamon  over  the  whole.  Turn  top  back  over 
apples  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  the  top  with  small  lumps 
of  butter  and  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Put  pan  half  full  of 
water  with  a  cup  of  sugar  in  it  and  let  cook  slowly  until 
nicely  browned.     The  water  and  sugar  make  the  sauce. 

SWEET  POTATO  CUSTARD— Take  several  potatoes,  ac- 
cording to  the  number  to  eat,  boil  them  done  and  peel; 

—41— 


mix  with  two  cups  sweet  milk,  rub  through  a  sifter  and 
sweeten  to  taste,  beat  six  eggs  separately,  put  in  the 
yolks  and  sugar  and  tablespoon  of  butter ;  lastly  add  the 
whites  well  beaten,  stir  them  up  in  mixture,  make  cus- 
tard about  as  thick  as  batter  cakes,  so  if  necessary  add 
more  milk ;  add  one  pinch  of  salt  and  flavor  with  lemon ; 
bake  in  rich  pie  crust. 

PUMPKIN  PIE  NO.  1 — Two  each  part  of  condensed  pump- 
kin, add  four  well  beaten  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt, 
one-half  cup  of  molasses,  and  one  scant  quart  of  milk, 
add  sugar  to  taste  and  then,  gradually  add  any  desired 
amount  of  spices,  cinnamon  and  ginger  and  a  little  nut- 
meg. Line  deep  pie  dishes  with  pastry,  fill  the  prepared 
pumpkin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  very  cold. 
Just  before  serving  cover  top  of  pie  with  stiffly  whipped 
cream  and  dot  cream  with  walnuts  or  raisins. 

PUMPKIN  PIE  NO.  2 — Three  cups  pumpkin  or  kershaw, 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon  and  one  of  ginger,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk;  use 
whites  of  four  eggs  for  meringue ;  make  two  pies. 

BUTTERMILK  PIE— For  four  pies,  six  eggs,  four  cups  of 
sugar,  one  cup  butter,  five  tablespoons  corn  starch,  two 
cups  buttermilk;  season  with  nutmeg  and  vanilla. 

BUTTERMILK  CUSTARD  NO.  2— This  is  fine.  One  cup  of 
buttermilk,  one  cup  raisins,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  two  large  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  one  teaspoon 
of  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves  and  one  of  nutmeg.  Mix  all  to- 
gether ;  put  in  a  raw  crust  and  bake ;  take  the  four  whites 
and  four  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  tiny  bit  of  Royal  Bak- 
ing Powder,  beat  stiffly  and  spread  over  the  pies  as 
meringue. 

CREAM  PIE — Yolk  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons flour,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  milk,  pinch  of  salt; 
cook  in  a  double  boiler,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Take  whites 
and  make  a  meringue. 

—42— 


PIE  CRUST— Three  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  lard,  one  level 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  rub  the  lard  thoroughly  through  the 
flour,  then  add  a  half  cup  of  ice  water  and  mix.  Don't  put 
baking  powder  in  pie  crust. 

JELLY  PIE — One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  creamed 
together,  four  eggs  and  one  cup  of  acid  jelly ;  bake  in  low- 
er crust  in  pie  pans. 

MOLASSES  PIE  No.  1— One  cup  of  molasses,  half  cup  of 
sugar,  two  eggs  and  lump  of  butter  size  of  walnut,  two 
tablespoons  of  sifted  flour. 

MOLASSES  PIE  No.  2 — Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  flour  in  sugar,  one  cup  molasses  and  teaspoon 
of  melted  butter. 

LEMON  PIE  NO  1— Five  eggs  beaten  light,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons  and  rind  of  one ;  one  tablespoon 
of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  water,  and  one  tablespoon  of 
butter;  mix  all  together  and  pour  in  pans  lined  with  crusts 
and  bake. 

LEMON  PIE  NO.  2— This  is  fine.  Take  eight  eggs,  reserve 
whites  of  four,  take  yolks  and  remaining  whites  and  beat 
with  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with 
sugar  dry,  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  two  lemons,  one-half  cup  of  water ;  this  makes  two 
pies.     Beat  whites  stiff  and  add  sugar  for  meringue. 

TEXAS  PECAN  PIE— One  cup  of  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk, 
one-half  cup  of  pecan  kernels  chopped  fine,  three  eggs,  one 
tablespoon  flour.  When  cooked,  spread  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  well  beaten  with  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  on  top, 
brown  and  sprinkle  a  few  of  the  chopped  kernels  over  it. 

LEMON  PIE  NO.  3 — Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  of  water,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  yolks 
of  two  eggs  well  beaten;  mix  all  together,  and  cook  in 
basin  over  water  until  thick,  then  pour  into  the  baked 
crusts.     Whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with 

—43— 


two  tablespoonsf ul  of  sugar ;  pour  on  top  of  pie  and  set  in 
hot  oven. 
JELLY  CUSTARD  NO.  3— Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cup 
sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  four  tablespoons  sweet 
milk,  four  tablespoons  jelly,  and  last  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  and  about  two  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE — Make  and  bake  one  crust,  mix  one  cup 
of  grated  chocolate  with  one  cup  of  water,  butter  size  of 
an  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  vanilla,  two 
tablespoons  of  corn  starch  and  two  eggs  well  beaten ;  cook 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly ;  pour  in  crust  and  ice  top 
and  put  in  oven  to  brown ;  this  makes  one  pie. 

COCOANUT  PIE — One  cup  sugar,  three  eggs,  two  cups 
milk.  Mix  one  heaping  teacup  cocoanut  with  eggs  and 
sugar,  beat  whites  of  two  eggs  to  froth,  stirring  in  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar;  make  meringue,  put  over  pie  and 
bake  light  brown.  One  tablespoon  of  corn  starch  mixed 
in  custard  will  improve  it.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

CHEESE  PIE — Yolks  of  three  eggs  and  whites  of  one,  three 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  table- 
spoons sweet  milk,  one  tablespoon  flour,  flavor  with  va- 
nilla or  lemon.  Bake  with  under  crust  to  nice  brown. 
Take  two  remaining  whites  and  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
beat  till  stiff ;  place  on  pie  and  brown  slightly. 

BANANA  PIE — Yolks  of  three  eggs,  tablespoon  sugar  and 
a  pinch  of  salt,  tablespoon  flour,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one 
teaspoon  of  vanilla ;  cook  until  thick  in  double  boiler,  then 
pour  into  crust  already  baked ;  slice  thin  one  banana  over 
custard.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  with  four  tablespoons  su- 
gar and  pour  over  pie.     Return  to  oven  and  brown. 

MOCK  CHERRY  PIE — One  cup  of  chopped  cranberries,  one 
of  chopped  raisins,  half  cup  of  water,  two  tablespoons 
flour,  one  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter,  teaspoon  of 
vanilla.     Bake  between  two  crusts. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE— One  small  can  of  grated  pineapple  with 

—44— 


most  of  the  juice  drained  off,  the  same  measure  of  sugar, 
half  as  much  butter,  one  cup  of  cream,  five  eggs ;  beat  but- 
ter to  a  creamy  froth,  add  sugar  and  yellows  of  eggs,  beat 
until  very  light,  add  the  cream  and  pineapple  and  whites 
of  eggs ;  beat  to  a  stiff  froth.     Bake  with  an  under  crust. 

PECAN  AND  RAISIN  PIE— Two  cups  sweet  milk,  two 
eggs,  two  tablespoons  flour,  one  pinch  salt,  one  cup  sugar 
one  cup  chopped  pecans,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Make  custard  in  double  boiler  and  put 
in  a  baked  crust.     Bake  with  a  meringue. 


—45- 


—46— 


CAKES 


FRUIT  CAKE  NO.  1 — Twelve  eggs  beaten  separtely,  one 
pound  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  one  of  sifted  flour,  three 
pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  one  pound  of 
citron,  two  pounds  of  almonds  (if  desired),  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  ground  spice,  cloves  and  cinnamon ;  one- 
half  pint  of  sherry  wine,  one-half  pint  of  whiskey.  Dredge 
fruit  in  flour,  if  baked  in  one  pan  the  cake  requires  seven 
hours,  if  in  two  cakes,  three  hours  for  baking. 

FRUIT  CAKE  NO  2 — Seven  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  one  of 
sugar,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda, 
one-half  pound  of  citron,  one  of  currants,  one  of  almonds, 
cut  fine,  one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
cloves,  one  quart  sifted  flour,  five  drops  of  essence  of  al- 
mond. Directions  for  mixing:  Beat  eggs  separately, 
wash  and  dry  currants  the  day  before,  mix  butter,  sugar 
and  yolks  together,  then  add  molasses,  then  fruit,  then 
flour,  then  whites  of  eggs;  mix  all  fruit  together,  and 
flour  and  spice  it  before  putting  into  batter.  Cook  three 
hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

FRUIT  CAKE  NO.  3— One  pound  of  white  sugar,  one  of 
flour,  three-quarters  pound  butter,  whites  of  sixteen  eggs, 
two  cocoanuts,  grated,  one-half  pound  of  almonds,  bleach- 
'  ed  and  chopped  fine,  two  pounds  of  citron,  sliced  thin,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda,  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  dissolved  in 
cream. 

FINE  WHITE  CAKE— One  cup  sweet  milk  or  water,  whites 
of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  three  and  a  half  cups  sifted 
flour,  one-half  pound  white  butter,  two  round  teaspoons 
of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  cream,  butter  and  sugar  well, 
sift  baking  powder  and  mix  thoroughly  in  flour,  whip  the 

—47— 


eggs  to  a  light  but  not  hard  froth,  flavor  with  two  tea- 
spoons of  lemon  extract,  or  any  preferred  flavoring,  bake 
in  moderate  oven. 

SPLENDID  YELLOW  CAKE— Yellows  of  eight  eggs,  three- 
fourths  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  sifted 
flour,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of 
Royal  Baking  Powder — flavor  to  suit  the  taste  and  bake. 

POUND  CAKE — Five  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar, 
four  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons 
Royal  Baking  Powder;  mix  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
after  flavoring  with  two  teaspoons  of  vanilla  extract. 

WHITE  CAKE — Whites  of  nine  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  scant  cup  of  butter,  four  cups  of 
sifted  flour,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  one  teaspoon 
soda,  pinch  of  salt. 

WHITE  LOAF  CAKE— Whites  of  10  eggs,  4  scant  cups  of 
flour,  2  cups  sugar,  2  scant  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking 
Powder,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  milk. 

WHITE  CAKE — Whites  of  six  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  three 
and  one-half  cups  flour,  three-fourths  cup  of  milk,  one  cup 
of  butter,  two  level  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar  well  together,  then  add  flour  and 
milk  alternately  and  lastly  beaten  whites,  flavor  with  va- 
nilla or  lemon  flavoring.  Bake  in  layers  and  spread  with 
the  following:  Three  cups  sugar,  one  of  water;  boil  till 
it  threads,  and  pour  into  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs. 

CARAMEL  CAKE— Three  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  tea- 
spoons Royal  Baking  Powder,  six  eggs  beaten  well,  sepa- 
ately ;  mix  together  and  bake  in  layers.  Following  is  fill- 
ing for  same :  Two  cups  sugar,  wet  soft  with  sweet  milk, 
one  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter,  cook  until  it  strings  from 
spoon,  beat  or  grind  up  one  cup  of  nut  meats,  add  to  cook- 
ed sugar,  beat  up  and  flavor  to  taste  with  vanilla  and 
spread  between  layers  while  hot. 

—48— 


PRINCE  OF  WALES  CAKE— Whites  of  eight  eggs,  two 
level  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  of  sweet  milk, 
four  cups  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking 
Powder,  mix  cream,  butter  and  sugar  together  first,  then 
add  two  cups  of  flour  with  the  baking  powder  sifted  into 
it,  then  the  cup  of  milk,  then  the  other  two  cups  of  flour, 
then  the  whites  beaten  stiff;  bake  half  of  the  batter  in 
two  white  layers,  take  the  other  half  and  put  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  spice,  one  of  cinnamon  in  it,  one-half  pack- 
age of  seeded  raisins,  cut  fine  and  roll  in  flour  and  mix 
with  batter  and  bake  in  two  layers.  Make  an  icing  and 
when  nearly  done,  drop  one-half  pound  of  marshmallows 
into  it  and  let  melt ;  beat  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff  and  beat 
into  the  boiled  syrup  and  marshmallows,  ice  each  layer 
and  put  together  with  one  of  the  white  and  one  of  the 
dark  cakes  alternately. 

ORANGE  CAKE— Take  whites  of  eight  eggs,  beaten  stiff, 
two  level  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  four  cups  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  milk,  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking 
Powder,  flavor  with  lemon  extract. 

FILLING  FOR  SAME— Yolks  of  three  eggs,  beat  thorough- 
ly, juice  of  two  or  three  oranges,  sweeten  to  taste,  two 
tablespoons  of  sifted  flour,  mix  all  together  and  cook  in 
double  boiler,  stir  constantly  till  thick  and  smooth,  ice  the 
layers  separately  and  let  cool  and  harden,  then  put  filling 
between  layers. 

GOOD  CAKE — To  make  the  white  layers  use  the  whites  of 
six  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  and  one-half  cups  of 
sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking 
Powder,  one  scant  teacup  of  milk,  flavor  to  taste.  For  the 
dark  layers,  take  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups  flour,  scant  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one 
and  a  half  blocks  of  chocolate  grated,  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Put  together  alternately  after  icing.  Use  following  filling : 
One  cup  of  sugar,  boiled  with  one-half  cup  water  till  it 
will  rope,  add  to  this  one  cup  seeded  and  ground  raisins. 

—49— 


WHITE  CAKE — Whites  of  six  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
three  cups  flour,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  butter, 
two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  teaspoon  lemon 
extract. 

GOOD  DINNER  CAKE— Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two 
of  flour,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder. 

TEA  CAKES — One  cup  of  butter,  one  of  sweet  milk,  five 
cups  flour,  three  eggs,  beaten  separately,  two  tablespoons 
Royal  Baking  Powder.  Drop  about  two  tablespoons  in  a 
place  on  a  buttered  tin  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

TEA  CAKES  NO.  2— Eight  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  six 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  four  tablespoons  sweet  milk, 
two  eggs,  one  heaping  teaspoon  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one 
tablespoon  lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring,  flour  sufficient  to 
roll;  roll  very  thin  and  dip  in  granulated  sugar  before 
baking.     Delicious. 

TEA  CAKES  NO.  3— Three  cups  sugar,  two  of  lard,  three 
eggs,  ten  cents  worth  of  oil  of  lemen ;  get  five  cents  worth 
of  baker's  amonia,  but  use  only  one-third  at  a  time  and 
dissolve  it  in  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  mix,  add  together  and 
work  in  flour  enough  to  roll  thin  and  cut  out  in  fancy 
shapes  and  bake  on  buttered  tins. 

SOFT  GINGER  CAKE— Four  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  one  of  butter,  four  cups  flour,  one  cup  of  molasses, 
one  spoon  of  soda,  one  cup  butter  milk,  one  tablespoon  of 
ginger.     Serve  with  sauce. 

SILVER  CAKE — Whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  one  cup  butter, 
four  cups  sugar,  six  cups  flour,  one  and  a  half  cups  milk, 
two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder;  flavor  with  lemon 
or  rose. 

WHITE  CARAMEL  CAKE— Two  and  one-half  cups  sugar, 
one  cup  butter,  well  creamed,  one  and  half  cups  sweet 
milk,  four  and  one-half  cups  sifted  flour,  whites  of  nine 

—50— 


eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two  teaspoons  of  Royal  Bak- 
ing Powder,  one  teaspoon  of  flavoring ;  bake  in  layers. 

CUP  CAKE — Four  eggs,  three  cups  sifted  flour,  two  cups 
sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  butter,  two  teaspoons 
Royal  Baking  Powder ;  flavored  as  desired. 

BOSTON  TEA  CAKES— Two  cups  flour,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one  and  one  half  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  three  teaspoons 
Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD— One  half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  mo- 
lasses, one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  each  of  ginger 
and  cloves,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  cup  of  boiling 
water,  two  and  half  cups  flour,  lastly  two  well  beaten  eggs. 

INDIAN  CAKE — One-half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  half  cups 
sugar,  whites  of  six  eggs,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder ; 
bake  in  three  layers. 

FILLING  FOR  SAME — One  cup  sugar,  four  tablespoons 
water,  boiled  together  till  clear,  stir  it  into  the  beaten 
white  of  one  egg,  add  one-half  cup  seeded  raisins,  one-half 
cup  nuts,  both  chopped  fine. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM  CAKE— Two  cups  sugar,  four  cups 
flour,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  of  jam,  one  cup  of  butter- 
milk, one  cup  of  grapes  or  raisins,  three  eggs,  beaten 
separately,  one  small  nutmeg  grated,  one  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, and  last  add  2  teaspoons  of  soda,  dissolved  in  little 
warm  water,  beat  well  and  bake  in  layers. 

JAM  CAKE  NO.  2 — Four  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar, 
one  cup  butter,  four  tablespoons  sour  cream  or  buttermilk, 
one  teaspoon  soda,  one  of  spice,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  one 
grated  nutmeg  and  one-half  cup  of  jam,  mix  rather  thick 
with  flour,  bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  icing  and 
pecans. 

PORK  CAKE — One  cup  raw  salt  pork,  chopped  fine,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  one  raisins,  one  of  currants,  one  of  molasses, 

—51— 


one  of  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  of 
cloves,  one  of  cinnamon;  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a 
little  thicker  than  common  cake. 

MARBLE  CAKE  (White  Part)— Whites  of  seven  eggs  three 
cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
one  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  four  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  flavor  with  lemon. 

DARK  PART — Yolks  of  seven  eggs,  one  cup  each  brown  su- 
gar, molasses,  butter  and  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
two  of  cream  of  tartar,  five  cups  flour  sifted ;  one  dessert 
spoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  spice,  two  grated  nut- 
megs. 

NEVER  FAIL  WHITE  CAKE— Cream  together  one  cup  of 
butter  and  two  of  sugar,  add  the  whites  of  four  eggs  that 
have  been  well  beaten,  one-half  cup  each  of  milk  and 
water,  three  cups  of  flour,  into  which  has  been  sifted  two 
level  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking  Powder. 

RIBBON  CAKE  (White  Part)— Take  whites  of  eight  eggs 
well  beaten,  two  level  cups  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter;  cream 
butter  and  sugar  together  and  add  two  level  cups  sifted 
flour,  two  heaping  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder,  put 
into  sugar  and  butter,  then  pour  one  cup  sweet  milk  into 
mixture,  then  two  more  level  cups  flour,  then  the  whites 
of  eggs;  flavor  with  lemon;  beat  well;  bake  two  layers 
white,  then  take  the  other  half  of  batter,  put  enough 
fruit  coloring  to  make  a  good  pink,  chop  one  cup  of  pecan 
nuts,  roll  in  flour  and  put  in  pink  batter,  and  bake  in  two 
layers,  ice  each  layer,  then  take  a  can  of  grated  pineapple, 
squeeze  out  the  juice  and  put  the  layers  together,  alter- 
nating the  white  and  pink  with  pineapple  between  each 
layer. 

SNOW  CAKE — Sift  together  four  times,  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  one  heaping  teaspoon  Royal 
Baking  Powder,  into  the  same  cup  put  whites  of  two  eggs, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  fill  cup  with  sweet  milk,  add 

—52— 


this  to  sifted  ingredients  and  beat  hard  for  two  minutes. 
Bake  in  layers. 

SOFT  GINGER  CAKE — Two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  mo- 
lasses, one  buttermilk,  one  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
four  cups  flour,  one  tablespoon  soda ;  cream  sugar  and 
butter  together;  add  one  tablespoon  each,  ginger,  cloves 
and  spice. 

GINGER  BREAD— Take  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half 
cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  sour  milk, 
two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  each 
of  ginger  and  cinnamon,  two  cups  flour,  one  cup  seeded 
raisins,  mix  well,  this  bread  keeps  soft  many  days  and  its 
flavor  improves  with  age. 

JAPANESE  CAKE — Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one 
cup  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  Royal  Baking 
Powder,  four  cups  flour.  After  mixing  this  in  usual  way 
divide  batter,  taking  one-third;  add  one  cup  of  chopped 
nuts ;  to  the  other  two-thirds,  add  one-half  pound  seeded 
raisins,  chopped  fine,  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  cloves, 
cinnamon  and  allspice.  Bake  in  three  layers  with  nut  lay- 
er in  center.  Make  filling  as  follows:  One  small  cocoa- 
nut,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  hot  water,  rind  and  juice  of 
two  lemons,  one  tablespoon  of  corn  starch ;  cook  to  a  thick 
cream. 

SPICE  CAKE — One  and  one-fourth  cups  of  butter,  two  and 
a  half  cups  sugar,  five  cups  flour,  one  cup  sour  milk,  five 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cloves, 
spice,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  one-half  cup  chocolate. 

WHITE  PERFECTION  CAKE— Whites  of  ten  eggs,  one  cup 
butter,  three  cups  sugar,  five  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons 
Royal  Baking  Powder;  flavor  with  lemon  or  flavor  to 
taste. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE— Whites  of  eleven  eggs,  one  and  a 
half  cups  sugar,  one  flour,  one  level  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla;  sift  flour  five  times,  meas- 

—53— 


uring  before  sifting;  sift  sugar  once;  break  eggs  into  a 
bowl ;  beat  till  stiff  but  not  hard,  then  add  cream  of  tartar 
and  beat  for  five  minutes,  then  add  sugar,  beating  all  the 
time,  then  fold  in  flour  and  lastly  vanilla,  bake  in  pan  that 
has  not  been  greased. 

FRUIT  CAKE — One  pound  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of 
flour,  twelve  eggs,  three  pounds  seedless  raisins,  one 
pound  citron,  two  pounds  currants,  one  of  pecans,  one  of 
walnuts,  one  of  almonds,  two  teaspoons  each  of  spice,  cin- 
namon and  nutmeg,  one  cup  of  brandy;  flour  fruits  well 
and  mix  in  the  usual  way. 

OLD  FASHIONED  GOLD  AND  SILVER  CAKE  (Silver)— 

Whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one 
cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoon 
Royal  Baking  Powder;  flavor  with  lemon  to  taste.  Bake 
in  four  layers. 

GOLD — Yolk  eight  eggs,  three-quarters  cup  of  butter,  one- 
half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups 
flour,  two  level  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  va- 
nilla to  taste.     Bake  in  three  layers. 

MARSHMALLOW  FILLING— One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half 
cup  water,  whites  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  ten  cent  box 
marshmallows ;  cook  sugar  and  water  till  it  ropes;  pour 
into  the  beaten  whites,  beaitng  all  the  time,  add  marsh- 
mallows  and  beat  till  they  are  thoroughly  dissolved. 

CARAMEL  FILLING — Four  cups  brown  sugar,  two  cups 
milk,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  brown  sugar  in  kettle,  then 
add  milk  and  dissolve  well,  then  butter  and  cook  until 
thick  as  candy  and  beat  well.  Spread  between  layers  of 
cake. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING— Three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  yel- 
low of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one-half  cake 
Baker's  Chocolate ;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Cook  as  caramel 
filling. 

BOILED  ICING — Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  water;  cook  till 

—54— 


it  hardens  in  cold  water ;  have  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  when  the  syrup  is  done  add  to  eggs  and  beat 
constantly,  adding  juice  of  half  lemon. 

MAPLE  FILLING  FOR  CAKE— Three-fourths  cup  of 
maple  sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter;  cook  until  it 
threads ;  pour  gradually  into  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs,  beat  it  until  smooth. 

TRIED  AND  TESTED  FRUIT  CAKE— One  pound  butter, 
one  of  sugar,  one  dozen  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  pound 
citron  cut  fine,  two  pounds  currants,  two  pounds  raisins, 
one  pound  sifted  flour,  two  teaspoons  each  of  cinnamon, 
nutmeg,  cloves  and  spice.  Two  cups  chopped  pecans,  or 
one  of  pecans  and  one  of  almonds  blanched  and  chopped 
fine.  After  all  are  cut  fine  dredge  in  flour,  (flour  that 
has  already  been  weighed).  Three-fourths  pint  of  whis- 
key or  sweet  milk.  Fifteen  cents  worth  of  cherries  and 
one-half  pound  of  pineapple.  If  you  use  pineapple  and  cher- 
ries, use  only  one-half  pound  of  citron,  one  teaspoon  of 
Royal  Baking  Powder.  Cook  about  six  hours  if  one  cake 
is  to  be  made.  If  to  be  divided  into  two  cakes  only  three 
and  one-half  hours  will  be  required  for  cooking. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE— The  whites  of  one  dozen  eggs,  one 
pound  sifted  flour,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
two  heaping  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one-half 
pound  of  citron  chopped  fine,  one  teacup  of  chopped  al- 
monds, one-half  pound  or  less  of  chopped  crystalized  pine- 
apple, two  cups  grated  cocoanut,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
and  if  too  stiff  add  more  milk.  To  mix,  cream  sugar  and 
butter,  then  part  of  the  flour,  mix  fruit  and  nuts  chopped 
fine  and  cocoanut,  rub  them  in  the  other  flour  and  then 
put  all  together.  Sift  Royal  Baking  Powder  in  the  first 
flour  you  use.  Add  milk,  then  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff- 
ly.    Flavor  with  lemon. 

ORNAMENTAL  FROSTING— Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup 
water,  whites  three  eggs,  one-fourth  teaspoon  tartaric 
acid,  boil  sugar  and  water  until  syrup    forms    a    thread 

—55— 


when  dropped  from  the  spoon.  Pour  syrup  gradually  on 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  beating  constantly,  then  add  acid 
and  continue  beating;  when  stiff  enough  to  spread  put 
a  thin  coating  over  the  cake.  Beat  remaining  frosting 
until  cold  and  stiff  enough  to  keep  in  shape  after  being 
forced  through  a  pastry  tube.  After  first  coating  on  the 
cake  has  hardened  cover  with  a  thicker  layer  and  crease 
for  cutting.  If  frosting  is  too  stiff  to  spread  smoothly 
thin  with  a  few  drops  of  water.  With  a  pastry  bag  and 
a  variety  of  tubes  cake  may  be  ornamented  as  desired. 

PINK  AND  WHITE  CAKES— The  whites  of  six  eggs,  three 
cups  of  flour,  one  and  three-quarter  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  milk,  one  light  cup  of  butter,  three  level  teaspoons 
of  Royal  Baking  Powder.  Flavor  to  taste.  Color  one 
half  pink  and  bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  any  de- 
sired filling. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE— Make  a  six-egg  white  cake. 
Flavor  with  rose  water,  with  white  icing,  put  with  follow- 
ing filling:  One  cup  of  raisins,  cut  in  pieces,  one  cup  of 
pecans  or  walnuts,  cut  half  a  cup  of  figs  if  liked.  Mix 
this  with  icing  and  put  between  layers.  Ice  top  plain  and 
put  fruit  on  top  cake.  Use  the  raisins  and  whole  nuts  in 
half  and  figs  in  strips. 

THE  GRAPE  JUICE  CAKE— One  cup  butter,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  six  eggs  (both  whites  and  yolks),  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  three-quarters  cup  of  flour,  half  cup  grape  juice. 
Four  level  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  two  tea- 
spoons cinnamon,  one  heaping  tablespoon  cocoa,  one  cup 
blackberry  jam.  Cream  butter  and  add  one-half  the 
sugar,  beating  very  light.  Beat  yolks  and  other  half  the 
sugar,  sift  flour  twice,  flour  and  baking  powder  together, 
all  this  in  turn  with  milk  and  beaten  egg  whites  to  butter, 
eggs  and  sugar  mixture.  Mix  spices  and  cocoa  to  grape 
juice  and  add  to  batter.     Last  gently  stir  in  jam. 

A  COTTOLENE  CAKE— Cream  one-half  cup  of  cottolene 
add  one  cup  sugar  and  mix  together  one-half  cup  milk  and 

—56— 


two  cups  pastry  flour  in  which  two  teaspoons  of  Royal 
Baking  Powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt  have  been  well  sifted. 
Beat  well,  add  well  beaten  yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs. 
Separately  bake  in  two  layers.     Use  any  kind  of  filling. 

WHITE  ORANGE  CAKE— One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar, 
three  cups  flour,  whites  of  five  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of 
Royal  Baking  Powder,  three-quarters  cup  of  milk,  and  the 
juice  of  one  orange,  strain  if  very  juicy.  Use  a  little  less 
milk  as  you  want  about  one  small  cup  of  all.  Add  also  a 
teaspoon  of  extract  of  orange  juice  to  batter.  Cook  in 
two  layers  and  put  together  with  orange  icing  made  by 
pulverizing  sugar  with  orange  juice  and  extract  of  or- 
anges. If  oranges  are  not  acid  add  a  little  lemon  juice. 
This  is  fine. 

AN  IRISH  POTATO  CAKE— Three  eggs,  one  cup  butter, 
two  cups  sugar,  three  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  one-half  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  one  cup  boiled  Irish 
potatoes  mashed,  one  cup  pecans  mashed  and  rolled  in 
flour,  two  teaspoons  of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  tea- 
spoon spice,  one  spoon  cloves,  one  spoon  cinnamon,  cream 
butter  and  sugar,  then  add  chocolate.  Beat  in  eggs,  then 
potatoes,  milk,  flour,  pecans  and  spices. 


—57- 


SAUCES 


WINE  SAUCE — Beat  together  until  light  one  cup  sugar, 
(powdered)  with  one  egg  and  the  yolk  of  a  second;  add 
in  a  wine  glass  of  wine,  heated  very  hot. 

MAPLE  SAUCE — An  agreeable  sauce  with  a  steam  pudding 
is  made  by  dissolving  a  half  pint  of  maple  sugar  in  a  cup 
of  water;  add  half  cup  of  butter,  mixed  with  one  table- 
spoon of  flour ;  flavor  to  taste. 

HARD  SAUCE — Beat  together  one  cup  of  sugar  and  half 
cup  of  butter;  flavor  to  taste,  form  into  a  pyramid  and 

shape  to  suit  the  fancy. 

BROWN  SAUCE  FOR  CAKE  OR  PUDDING— Mix  half  cup 
of  brown  sugar  with  half  the  quantity  of  butter;  add  pint 
of  hot  water  and  a  little  vinegar  with  such  flavoring  as 
may  be  desired;  use  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  moistened 
with  milk  and  boil.     Should  be  served  hot. 

TOMATO  SAUCE— Take  four  medium  sized  tomatoes,  or 
one  small  can  and  one  small  onion;  cut  the  tomatoes  up 
and  cook  with  onions  until  the  juice  is  out  of  the  toma- 
toes; strain  into  another  sauce  pan;  put  it  on  stove;  add 
a  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Rub 
the  flour  into  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  pour 
this  into  a  platter  and  lay  slices  of  tongue  or  other  suit- 
able meats  on  it. 

CHICKEN  SALAD  DRESSING— Four  yolks  of  eggs,  beat- 
en, one  cup  of  vinegar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  two  table- 
spoons of  mustard,  mixed  with  a  little  vinegar,  one  table- 
spoon of  sugar ;  cook,  salt  afterwards,  add  one-half  cup  of 
ipped  cream  just  before  using. 

—58— 


SAUCE  TO  BE  EATEN  ON  ICE  COLD  TOMATOES— One 
egg  beaten  well,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  half  teaspoon 
celery  seed  ground,  one  level  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  black  pepper,  two  teaspoons  mustard,  one  cup 
vinegar ;  cook  till  it  thickens.     This  sauce  keeps  well. 

DELMONICO  SALAD  DRESSING— One  hard  boiled  egg, 
chopped  fine,  one  teaspoon  tomato  catsup,  one  of  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  two  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  of  chopped  green  peppers,  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  two  tablespoons  of  vinegar ;  mix 
and  serve  cold  on  lettuce,  tomato  or  other  vegetables.  A 
tiny  pinch  of  sugar  may  improve  it. 

WHITE  SAUCE — Take  two  cups  of  sweet  milk  and  one 
heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  tablespoons  sifted  flour, 
mixed  in  a  little  cold  milk  and  stirred  into  the  other  milk ; 
cook  until  a  little  thick  and  creamy ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING  (Made  With  Olive  Oil)— Take 
yolks  of  two  eggs  without  a  particle  of  the  whites,  beat 
them  thoroughly,  then  stir  in  your  olive  oil ;  let  run  very 
slowly  and  stir  constantly  till  it  begins  to  get  thick ;  add  a 
little  lemon  juice  and  more  oil  and  so  on,  until  you  get  as 
much  made  as  you  want ;  then  stir  in  a  plentiful  supply  of 
salt  and  red  pepper,  if  it  should  become  curdled  and  oily 
again,  break  another  yellow  and  stir  in  all  of  the  curdled 
mixture  slowly  like  you  did  from  the  first. 

SOUR  SAUCE  FOR  FISH  AND  MEAT— Take  half  a  dozen 
large  green  peppers,  ground  fine,  add  three  large  onions 
chopped  fine;  mix  together,  then  make  a  mixture  of  five 
gills  of  vinegar,  sweeten  to  taste,  add  salt  and  pepper,  just 
a  little  catsup ;  beat  this  into  the  pepper  and  onions ;  put 
on  stove  and  boil  until  soft.  A  little  celery  seed  may  be 
added  if  the  flavor  is  desired;  when  cool  set  away  till 
wanted,  and  I  assure  you  this  is  fine. 

A  FRENCH    SAUCE    FOR    ASPARAGUS— Thick    white 

—59— 


sauce  poured  over  yolks  of  eggs ;  beaten  well  while  boiling 
hot;  pour  very  slowly;  add  juice  of  one  lemon;  serve  cold. 

DRESSING  FOR  FISH — Six  hard  boiled  eggs,  one-quarter 
pint  of  vinegar,  salt,  pepper  and  celery  seed  to  taste.  Mash 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  mix  with  vinegar,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg;  chop  the  whites  into  small  pieces  and  set 
all  on  stove  to  boil  thick;  if  vinegar  is  too  strong,  add 
water. 

A  WHITE  MAYONNAISE— One-half  cup  corn  starch,  one- 
half  cup  cold  water,  one  cup  boiling  water.  Dissolve 
corn  starch  in  cold  water,  add  this  to  boiling  water  while 
on  stove.  Stir  until  thick,  take  from  fire  and  add  at  once 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten.  When  cool  add  one  cup  of 
oil,  juice  of  two  lemons  and  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper. 


—60— 


SALADS 


TOMATO  JELLY  SALAD — To  ons  can  of  tomatoes,  add 
one-third  as  much  water  as  there  are  tomatoes ;  boil  a  few 
minutes  and  rub  through  a  collander,  using  the  tomato 
juice;  add  one-quarter  box  of  Knox's  gelatine,  dissolved 
in  a  cup  of  cold  water,  then  melted  over  hot  water;  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  tobasco  sauce  (make  pretty  hot) 
one  teaspoonf  ul  of  vinegar ;  mix  all  together ;  put  in  molds 
and  allow  to  harden ;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  mayonnaise  on  top  of  each. 

WALDORF  SALAD — Take  six  apples,  peel  and  cut  fine ;  cut 
ten  cents  worth  of  celery  fine;  half  cup  of  pecan  meats, 
and  make  the  following  dressing;  let  it  get  cold  and  mix 
all  with  the  salad. 

DRESSING  FOR  WALDORF  SALAD— Take  two  eggs  and 
beat  together,  add  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  half  cup  of  vin- 
egar, one  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  a 
heaping  tablespoon  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  sifted 
flour ;  mix  all  together  and  let  boil  till  thick ;  stir  constant- 
ly; it  will  at  first  look  curdled  and  will  lump,  but  that 
won't  hurt ;  keep  stirring  until  the  mixture  gets  smooth 
and  thick ;  let  cool  before  putting  over  mixture. 

FRUIT  SALAD — For  a  family  of  six,  take  four  oranges, 
three  apples,  ten  cents  worth  of  celery,  a  small  can  of 
sliced  pineapple,  half  cup  of  pecans,  one  banana,  (not 
necessary  but  good) .  Cut  all  up  fine.  Be  careful  not  get 
the  seed  of  the  oranges  in  the  fruit,  as  it  will  make  it  bit- 
ter; mix  all  together  and  put  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
if  not  sweet  enough  to  suit,  add  more  sugar ;  serve  on  let- 
tuce leaves  with  whipped  cream. 

—61— 


GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD— Take  pulp  of  three  grape  fruits, 
one  pound  of  white  grapes,  half  cup  of  pecans,  one  fifteen- 
cent  can  of  pineapple,  all  cut  fine  together,  sweeten  to 
taste ;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise  dressing  on 
the  grape  fruit  if  preferred. 

PEAR  SALAD — Take  one  can  of  pears,  put  one  slice  on  let- 
tuce leaf  on  saucer,  chop  a  little  celery,  sprinkle  a  little 
chopped  pecans  over  every  slice  and  serve  with  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

CHICKEN  SALAD — Take  one  chicken;  dress  and  leave  it 
whole;  put  in  a  pot  of  water  and  boil  till  tender;  when 
thoroughly  tender,  cut  up  into  small  pieces;  cut  fifteen 
cents  worth  of  celery,  one  cup  of  pecans  into  small  bits, 
put  one  cup  of  liquor  over  mixture.  Take  three  hard 
boiled  eggs,  mash  the  yolks  up  with  two  spoons  of  vin- 
egar, and  stir  into  mixture ;  salt  to  taste ;  cut  the  whites 
up  into  mixture;  rub  in  plenty  of  red  and  bleck  pepper; 
make  a  mayonnaise  dressing  and  stir  into  the  mixture. 

TOMATO  JELLY  SALAD  NO.  2— Strain  a  can  of  tomatoes 
and  season  well,  especially  with  salt;  heat  to  boiling  and 
add  half  box  of  gelatine,  dissolve  in  hot  water ;  pour  into 
molds  and  when  firm,  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

CHESSE  SALAD — Half  pound  American  cheese,  grated, 
one  pint  of  whipped  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one 
tablespoonful  of  powdered  gelatine,  four  tablespoons  boil- 
ing water;  dissolve  the  gelatine  in  hot  water;  strain  and 
add  cheese  and  whipped  cream,  and  seasoning  of  salt  and 
pepper,  pour  into  wet  mold  and  allow  it  to  become  firm; 
turn  out;  cut  in  slices,  place  each  slice  on  lettuce  leaves 
and  serve  with  boiled  dressing  or  mayonnaise.  This  will 
serve  twelve  people. 

BANANA  SALAD — Place  a  lettuce  leaf  on  as  many  saucers 
as  you  wish  to  serve  guests ;  on  each  lettuce  leaf,  put  two 
thin  slices  of  banana ;  cut  up  fine,  celery  and  pecan  meats 
over  each,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  serve  with  a 
mayonnaise  dressing. 

—62— 


\ 


STUFFED  TOMATO  SALAD— Take  as  many  tomatoes  as 
you  have  people  to  serve,  slice  off  stem  and  remove  pulp 
and  seed;  chop  one-half  cup  of  pecan  meats,  grind  up 
three  bell  peppers,  ten  cents  worth  of  celery  chopped  fine, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  (red  pepper),  mix 
with  tomato  pulp  and  mayonnaise  dressing,  drain '  the 
juice  from  the  mixture,  after  removing  from  the  ice  box 
or  refrigerator  fill  the  tomato  hulls  with  mixture  and 
serve  at  once  on  lettuce  leaves,  cover  with  mayonnaise. 
This  is  fine. 

SHRIMP  SALAD — Two  cans  of  shrimps,  drain,  let  stand  in 
cold  water  till  ready  for  use ;  break  in  halves.  Take  one 
can  of  tomatoes,  drain  thoroughly,  two  cups  celery  chop- 
ped fine,  one  cup  cracker  crumbs,  four  tablespoons  vine- 
gar, two  of  water,  one  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
one-eighth  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper,  half  teaspoon  sugar, 
piece  of  onion ;  let  come  to  a  boil ;  take  out  onion  when 
cool;  add  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire,  a  little  lemon  juice 
and  pour  over  shrimp. 

PERFECTION  SALAD— Small  quantity  of  shreded  cab- 
bage, one  can  of  pimento,  ground,  one  can  of  tomato  juice 
with  the  pulp  strained  out,  season  with  salt,  lemon  juice 
or  a  little  vinegar  and  pinch  of  sugar.  Add  to  plain  Knox 
gelatine  (half  box  dissolved  in  warm  water),  stir  until 
it  begins  to  congeal ;  mix  together ;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  cooked  mayonnaise  with  whipped  cream  in  it. 

TOMATO  AND  SARDINE  SALAD— Cut  whole  tomatoes  in 
halves;  sprinkle  with  shredded  water  cress  and  parsley; 
arrange  one  section  of  tomato  and  a  sardine  on  a  lettuce 
leaf  and  dress  with  cream  mayonnaise. 

SAPSAGO  SALAD— Grate  a  cake  of  sapsago  cheese,  mix 

the  grated  cheese  with  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  few 

Worcestershire  sauce,  and  teaspoon  lemon  juice; 

mold  into  loaf;  cut  into  strips,  placing  several  on  lettuce 

,  garnish  with  slices  of  red  pepper  or  pickled  beets. 

Serve  with  may  nnaise  dressing  if  preferred. 

—63— 


WILTED  LETTUCE  SALAD — One  head  of  lettuce  washed 
and  chopped  fine.  Have  a  hot  skillet,  cut  up  several 
pieces  of  bacon  and  when  brown,  pour  one-half  of  vin- 
egar and  water  into  skillet;  when  all  are  hot  pour  over 
the  lettuce,  have  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  slice  one  up  in 
salad,  the  other  over  the  top ;  serve  at  once  before  it  gets 
cold. 

COLD  SLAW — Take  head  of  cabbage,  shave  very  fine  with 
Irish  potato  chipper.  Make  dressing  as  follows:  Two 
eggs,  beaten,  teaspoon  sugar,  pinch  of  salt  and  black  pep- 
per, two-thirds  cup  of  vinegar,  one  spoon  butter ;  cook  un- 
til thick;  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  slaw  and  pour  your 
dressing  over  it,  put  in  dish  and  garnish  with  hard  boiled 
eggs.     Lettuce  is  also  nice  fixed  like  this. 

CHICKEN  SALAD— Take  one  fat  hen,  boiled  tender,  eight 
hard  boiled  eggs,  three  bunches  of  celery ;  clip  all  fine  with 
scissors.  Cooked  dressing  for  same:  One-half  cup  vin- 
egar, four  eggs,  yolks  well  beaten,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one 
of  black  pepper,  one  large  kitchen  spoon  sugar,  one  pint 
cream.  Let  vinegar,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  come  to  boil, 
add  it  slowly  to  the  well  beaten  eggs ;  set  on  warm  part  of 
stove  and  stir  constantly ;  let  all  get  cold,  mix  and  add  the 
pint  of  cream  whipped. 

DELICIOUS  EASTERN  SALAD— Boil  three  or  four  eggs 
until  hard ;  remove  yolks  and  cut  in  slices ;  rub  yolks  to  a 
paste;  gradually  add  to  them,  two  tablespoons  of  olive 
oil  or  melted  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice;  sea- 
son with  half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne ;  rub 
into  this  dressing,  lightly,  one  cup  of  grated  cheese  and  a 
cupful  of  finely  chopped  chicken.  Garnish  with  whites  of 
eggs  cut  into  rings;  serve  in  lettuce  leaves  with  tiny  po- 
tato eggs  on  top. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD — Take  can  asparagus  tips  and  cut  up 
with  two  buches  of  celery,  one-half  cup  of  pecans;  salt 
and  season  to  taste;  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

—64— 


APPLE  RING  SALAD — Pare  and  core  two  apples  and  slice 
them  crosswise,  brush  them  with  lemon  juice  and  dip 
each  in  French  dressing,  place  the  apple  rings  on  lettuce 
leaves  and  put  between  them  layers  of  chopped  English 
walnuts  and  celery ;  put  a  ball  of  cream  cheese  on  top  and 
serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

MARINE  SALAD — Scoop  out  the  inside  of  unpesled  cucum- 
bers, so  that  they  resemble  little  green  boats.  Chop  the 
pulp  fine,  add  a  little  onion ;  drain,  then  add  chopped  pep- 
pers or  celery.  Add  French  dressing.  A  place  card  at- 
tached to  a  toothpick  will  give  each  of  the  boats  a  sail. 

LOBSTER  SALAD — Boil  two  lobsters,  weighing  four  or 
five  pounds  each ;  when  cold,  remove  the  meat,  being  care- 
ful not  to  break  the  body  or  tail,  shell  and  cut  the  meat 
into  dice;  clean  the  two  tail  shells  and  one  back  shell  in 
cold  water  and  with  scissors  remove  the  thin  shell  from 
the  under  side  of  tail.  Place  two  or  three  layers  of  lettuce 
leaves  around  the  salad  dish;  join  the  shells  together  in 
the  form  of  a  boat,  the  body  shell  in  center  and  place  them 
in  the  salad  dish.  Mix  the  lobster  meat  with  mayonnaise 
dressing  and  place  in  this  boat;  garnish  with  a  chain  of 
the  whites  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  into  slices  and  linked 
together.     Serve  at  once. 

LITTLE  PIGS  IN  BLANKETS— Season  large  oysters  with 
salt  and  pepper;  cut  bacon  in  very  thin  slices,  wrap,  in 
each  slice  an  oyster  and  fasten  with  a  wooden  toothpick, 
heat  a  frying  pan  and  put  in  the  little  pigs.  Cook  just 
long  enough  to  crisp  the  bacon,  about  two  minutes.  Place 
on  small  slices  of  toast  and  serve  immediately.  Do  not 
remove  the  toothpick.  Garnish  with  parsley.  The  pan 
must  be  very  hot  before  the  pigs  are  put  in  and  great  care 
taken  that  they  do  not  burn. 

STUFFED  LEMONS— Six  lemons,  soaked  in  soda  water 
thirty  minutes,  then  cut  in  halves  and  take  out  inside; 
take  one  can  of  sardines,  three  crackers,  rolled  fine,  one- 
third  cup  of  lemon  juice,  two  pickles,  grated,  half  tea- 

—65— 


spoon  of  sugar,  one  onion,  grated,  and  four  eggs  boiled 
and  grated,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste ; 
mix  thoroughly  and  stuff  the  lemons. 

STUFFED  ORANGES — One  dozen  oranges,  cut  in  halves; 
remove  the  pulp  and  add  to  it,  one  pound  each  of  English 
walnuts  and  blanched  almonds,  chopped  fine;  one  cup  of 
wine  or  grape  juice,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  put  in  hulls. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  and  cherries. 

HEAVENLY  HASH — Three  oranges,  one  pound  each  of 
figs  and  dates,  one-half  can  of  pineapple,  one  pound  of 
English  walnuts ;  chop  all  fine ;  mix  and  serve  with  whip- 
ped cream. 

HAZELNUT  SALAD — Shell  and  blanch  one  pound  of  hazel- 
nuts and  grind  half  of  them  fine  in  a  grinder.  Grate  half 
of  pineapple;  mix  with  the  nuts  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
sherry;  juice  of  half  lemon  and  a  tablespoonful  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Let  stand  one  hour;  then  drain  and  add  a 
package  of  cream  cheese ;  mix  to  a  paste ;  then  make  into 
balls  with  a  whole  nut  in  the  center  of  each,  put  on  white 
lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with  mayonnaise. 

EASTER  SALAD — Salt  and  pepper  one  cup  of  cold  boiled 
fowl  cut  into  dice,  and  one  cup  chopped  pecans,  add  one 
grated  red  pepper  from  which  seeds  have  been  removed, 
one  cup  celery  cut  into  small  pieces,  mayonnaise  to 
moisten.  Trim  crackers  four  inches  long  by  one  wide, 
using  a  sharp  knife,  salt  slightly.  Arrange  on  plate  in 
form  of  box,  keep  in  place  with  red  ribbon  one-half  inch 
wide  and  fasten  at  corners  by  tying  in  a  bow.  Garnish 
opposite  corners  with  sprig  of  holly  berries.  Line  box 
with  lettuce  leaves,  put  in  a  spoonful  of  salad  and  mask 
with  mayonnaise.  Any  colored  ribbon  may  be  used  and 
flowers  instead  of  berries. 

EGG  SALAD — Cut  four  hard  boiled  eggs  in  halves  cross- 
wise in  such  a  way  that  tops  of  halves  may  be  cut  in  small 
points,  remove  yolks  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  finely 

— 66 — 


chopped  cooked  chicken.  Moisten  with  oil  dressing  No. 
One.  Shape  in  balls  of  original  yolks  and  refill  whites. 
Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  garnish  with  radishes  cut  in 
fancy  shapes  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

OIL  DRESSING — Four  hard  boiled  eggs,  four  tablespoons 
oil,  four  tablespoons  vinegar,  one-half  tablespoon  sugar, 
one-half  teaspoon  mustard,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  few 
grains  cayenne,  white  of  one  egg.  Force  yolks  of  hard 
boiled  eggs  through  a  strainer,  then  work  until  smooth, 
using  a  silver  spoon.  Add  sugar,  mustard,  salt  and 
cayenne  and  when  well  mixed  add  gradually  oil  and  vine- 
gar, stirring  and  beating  until  thoroughly  mixed,  then  cut 
and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff. 

HARVARD  SALAD— Make  lemon  baskets.  Make  a  hole 
through  the  handle  of  basket  and  insert  a  small  sprig  of 
parsley.  Fill  basket  with  equal  parts  of  cold  sweet  breads 
and  cucumber  cut  in  small  cubes  and  one-fourth  the  quan- 
tity of  finely  cut  celery.  Moisten  with  mayonnaise.  Pare 
round  red  radishes  as  thinly  as  possible,  smooth  top  of 
basket  and  cover  with  dressing.  Sprinkle  top  of  one-half 
of  basket  with  chopped  parings,  the  remaining  half  with 
finely  chopped  parsley.  Arrange  red  and  green  baskets 
alternately  on  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  water  cress. 

DAISY  SALAD — Boil  eggs  hard,  take  out  yolks  and  put 
through  a  strainer,  cut  lengthwise,  cut  each  half  in  three 
pointed  pieces.  Put  yolks  in  center  of  lettuce  leaf  and 
white  pieces  around  like  petals  of  a  daisy.  Serve  mayon- 
naise with  the  dish. 

FRUIT  SALAD— Mix  one-half  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  with 
one  cup  of  pineapple  juice,  one-half  cup  of  cold  water.  Let 
stand  about  two  hours  until  thoroughly  dissolved.  Add 
one  cup  of  boiling  water,  one  of  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons 
and  stir  until  all  are  dissolved.  Strain  all  through  coarse 
cloth ;  cut  pineapple  into  small  blocks,  also  three  bananas 
and  three  oranges,  using  only  the  pulp  of  same,  add  as 
many  California  grapes  as  you  wish,  first  removing  the 

—67— 


seed.  When  gelatine  begins  to  congeal  add  fruit  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream.     Bananas  may  be  left  out  if  desired. 

BANANA  BOAT  SALAD — Take  one  banana  for  one  person. 
Strip  peeling  from  one  side  being  careful  to  leave  it  all 
around  for  one  inch  from  end ;  this  makes  the  boat.  Turn 
the  side  up  that  has  the  peeling  off.  Put  a  small  United 
States  flag  on  one  end,  put  seat  in  center  of  boat  made  of 
celery  with  a  toy  man  on  it;  fill  boat  with  any  kind  of 
salad  made  of  fruit,  and  serve  on  lettuce  or  in  long  glass 
pickle  dishes  filled  with  water  with  leaves  dropped  around 
it  and  celery  oars. 

A  NOAH'S  ARK  SALAD— Take  large  bell  peppers,  cut  back 
about  half  way,  take  out  the  inside,  fill  the  back  part  with 
salad  of  stuffed  tomatoes  found  in  this  book  or  any  other 
kind ;  make  a  float  of  celery  on  the  front  part  like  a  gal- 
lery. Put  animal  crackers  around  that,  put  up  a  little 
flag  on  the  front.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

A  ROSE  TOMATO  SALAD— Take  a  tomato,  cut  carefully 
at  top,  roll  back  carefully  on  each  side  from  top  and  take 
seed  out.  Let  green  English  peas  run  down  on  four  sides 
of  inside  of  tomato.  One  right  on  top  of  each  other  from 
bottom  of  tomato  up  to  the  top  and  drop  a  ball  of  mayon- 
naise down  in  center  of  tomato.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 
This  makes  a  very  pretty  dish. 

A  RED  AND  WHITE  FRUIT  SALAD— One  cup  of  boiled 
dressing,  one-half  cup  of  whipped  cream,  half  can  of 
white  cherries,  one  small  bottle  of  Maraschino  cherries, 
one-half  can  of  sliced  pineapple,  one  cup  of  nuts.  Soak. 
one  heaping  tablespoon  of  gelatine  and  one-fourth  cup  of 
hot  water.  Mix  dressing  and  whipped  cream  together 
and  gradually  add  cool  gelatine.  Cut  fruit  in  small  pieces, 
drain  and  dry  on  towel,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  gently  fold 
into  the  mixed  fruit  dressing,  put  in  mold  and  allow  to 
stand  on  ice  for  several  hours. 

—68— 


GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD — Three  grape  fruits,  three  small 
apples,  two  small  bunches  of  celery,  three  bananas.  Cut 
all  in  small  dice,  mix  all  together  with  sugar  enough  to 
sweeten  to  taste,  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayon- 
naise. 

A  POINSETTA  SALAD — Take  one  whole  slice  of  pineapple, 
take  red  pimento  and  slice  like  little  pennants.  Put  the 
points  on  outer  edge  of  pineapple  and  let  wide  part  go  to 
the  inside.  It  takes  about  seven  little  pennants  to  go 
around.  Let  the  wide  part  of  pennants  touch  each  other. 
Cut  a  lettuce  leaf  in  half  and  roll  it  around  and  stick  down 
in  center  hole  of  pineapple.  Fill  this  little  lettuce  cup 
with  mayonnaise  and  drop  a  red  cherry  right  in  top  of 
mayonnaise.  Fix  one  for  each  person  like  this.  Serve 
on  lettuce  leaves.     This  is  beautiful. 


i  [)_ 


MISCELLANEOUS 


CHEESE  SOUFFLE — One-quarter  pound  cheese,  one-half 
pint  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  beaten  separately,  three 
tablespoonsful  flour;  make  the  flour  into  a  paste  with  a 
little  of  the  milk  and  add  to  the  well  beaten  yolks;  then 
some  of  the  beaten  whites  and  cheese  and  milk  until  it  is 
all  used ;  add  pepper  and  salt ;  bake  slowly  till  firm. 

APPLE  SNOWBALL — Apple  snowballs  are  a  general  fav- 
orite with  children,  and  grown-ups  like  them  equally  as 
well.  Peel  and  remove  cores  from  juicy  tart  apples;  fill 
the  cavities  with  chopped  raisins;  sugar,  mixed  with  cin- 
namon and  butter ;  bake  or  stew  until  tender ;  in  the  mean- 
time, boil  some  rice  tender  but  not  mushy ;  spread  it  an 
inch  thick  over  small  squares  of  coarse  muslin ;  wet  in  cold 
water;  in  the  center  of  each  of  these  squares,  put  one  of 
the  apples ;  tie  cloth  carefully,  being  sure  to  have  the  ap- 
ple covered  with  the  rice ;  steam  ten  minutes,  then  re- 
move the  cloth  and  serve  with  lemon  or  maple  sugar 
sauce. 

CHEESE  BALLS  IN  RICE  NEST— Mix  with  one  and  a  half 
cupsful  of  cream  cheese,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one- 
third  teaspoonful  salt,  a  little  mustard  and  small  pinch  of 
cayenne  pepper ;  mix  these  well  together,  then  whip  in  the 
whites  of  three  well  beaten  eggs,  form  in  egg  shape,  about 
the  size  of  large  bird  eggs ;  roll  in  whites  of  an  egg,  then 
in  cracker  crumbs ;  fry  quickly  in  deep  fat,  make  nests 

-  of  seasoned  cooked  rice  and  place  three  cheese  eggs  in 
each  nest. 

CHINESE  DUMPLINGS— Put  a  quart  of  ripe  tomatoes  into 
a  shallow  dish ;  add  seasoning  of  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and 

—70— 


a  little  butter ;  cover  and  let  get  boiling  hot ;  add  tiny  bit 
cf  chopped  onion;  meanwhile,  make  a  drop  batter  with 
two  cups  of  sifted  flour,  two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Pow- 
der, one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  sufficient  water  to  make 
batter  that  will  drop  from  a  spoon ;  add  a  cup  of  highly 
seasoned  cooked  meats  to  batter  and  drop  from  a  spoon  on 
top  of  the  boiling  tomato;  cover  closely  and  steam  for 
twenty  minutes ;  serve  dumplings  as  a  border  around  to- 
mato. 

JAMBAYLAY— Fine.  Take  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  put 
in  a  hot  skillet ;  chop  up  one  slice  of  ham,  either  cooked  or 
raw,  and  one  onion ;  fry  all  together  till  brown  but  be  care- 
ful not  to  burn ;  take  one  cup  of  rice,  wash  and  put  in  pan ; 
strain  one  can  of  tomatoes  into  rice,  fill  pan  with  enough 
water  to  cook  rice  done  without  stirring.  Pour  your  fried 
mixture  into  rice ;  season  highly  with  red  pepper  and  a 
good  deal  of  salt;  mix  all  together  and  don't  disturb  any 
more  until  done ;  let  cook  on  top  of  stove  until  nearly  dry. 
Then  run  into  the  stove  and  brown.  Be  sure  to  put 
enough  salt  as  the  tomatoes  kill  the  salt  and  it  takes  a 
good  deal ;  use  more  rice  if  you  have  a  large  crowd.        ^ 

ARTIFICIAL  BRAINS— Take  one-half  pint  of  cold  pork 
roast,  ground  fine ;  put  on  to  cook  in  barely  enough  water 
to  cover;  season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper;  stir  into 
this  three  well  beaten  eggs  and  you  will  have  a  dish  that 
can't  be  detected  from  real  brains. 

JAMBAYLAY  FOR  SMALL  FAMILIES— Take  three  dozen 
oysters,  stew  them  in  their  liquor,  then  chop  fine  and  add 
one  beaten  egg,  cold  cooked  pork  sausage;  Edam  cheese, 
grated;  rice,  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  sweet  milk  and 
onions;  stir  all  these  well  together,  then  pour  over  the 
mixture  the  liquor  in  which  the  oysters  were  stewed  and 
cook  consistency  of  boiled  rice ;  turkey  or  chicken  is  often 
substituted  for  the  sausage;  put  in  a  little  red  pepper. 

CHEESE  BALLS — One-half  pound  grated  cheese,  one-half 

pound  butter ;  melt,  pour  over  cheese  and  mix  thoroughly, 

—71— 


adding  salt  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper ;  mold  into  balls  the 
size  of  walnuts;  press  a  walnut  meat  on  each  side;  keep 
cool  until  ready  to  use.  These  balls  are  very  nice  for 
luncheon. 

WELCH  RAREBIT— One  cup  of  milk,  let  it  get  hot,  one- 
fourth  pound  cheese,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  of  mustard,  one  tablespoon  flour ;  rub  butter  and 
flour  together;  last,  beat  one  egg  and  add  little  at  a  time 
until  smooth;  serve  at  once  on  crackers. 

ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI— Two  pounds  of  beef  and  two  slices 
of  bacon. 

SAUCE  FOR  SAME— One  can  tomatoes,  strained,  six  fine- 
ly chopped  onions,  size  of  egg,  one  teaspoon  finely  chop- 
ped garlic,  one  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  red  pepper, 
one  of  thyme,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  for  thickening 
paste,  one  of  butter,  one  of  grated  cheese.  Fry 
meat  brown ;  then  boil  till  tender  to  get  substance  out ; 
pour  sauce  on  meats;  add  one  quart  water,  and  continue 
to  add  water  as  sauce  boils  away,  cooking  well,  till  onions 
are  tender,  or  about  three  hours.  Add  thickening  and 
chees.  Put  three-fourths  pound  of  spaghetti  in  boiling 
water;  add  one  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  twenty  minutes; 
drain  off  and  put  sauce  over  it ;  let  stand  about  five  min- 
utes; serve  with  Italian  cheese  grated  over  it. 

CHEESE  STRAWS— One  cup  grated  cheese,  three-fourths 
cup  butter,  one  cup  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half 
teaspoon  red  pepper,  mixed  with  the  juice  of  lemon.  Bake 
a  delicate  brown. 

SHIRRED  EGGS— One  tablespoonful  butter,  two  eggs,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  melt  butter  in  chafing  dish  over  slow 
heat  so  it  will  not  brown,  break  eggs  into  chafing  dish  and 
season;  serve  with  fried  crumbs  and  parsley  sprinkled 
on  grated  cheese. 

BAKED  OMELET— Have  ready  a  well  buttered  baking 
dish,  or  small  granite  baker ;  for  a  family  of  six,  take  four 

—72— 


eggs,  one  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  butter,  size  of  walnut,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  tablespoons  of  grated 
cheese,  or  more  if  desired ;  separate  eggs,  beat  each  well, 
add  milk,  butter,  salt  and  cheese  to  beaten  yolks,  then 
stir  the  well  beaten  whites  into  mixture ;  pour  into  baking 
dish  and  brown  quickly,  serving  at  once. 

CREAM  OMELET — One  tablespoon  of  pure  cream  for  each 
eggf  one  teaspoon  of  grated  cheese  for  each  of  cream; 
melt  one  spoon  of  butter ;  when  hot,  mix  the  ingredients 
well  and  pour  in  as  the  omelet  begins  to  set,  roll  up  and 
serve  at  once  on  hot  dish ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste. 

SMOTHERED  EGGS— Take  the  required  number  of  hard 
boiled  eggs,  one  for  each  person  to  be  served,  mix  some 
mashed  potatoes  with  half  its  bulk  of  finely  chopped  meat 
of  any  kind,  and  bind  with  beaten  eggs ;  divide  this  into  as 
many  parts  as  people  to  be  served,  and  roll  each  portion 
around  a  hard  boiled  egg  after  removing  shell,  of  course ; 
lay  in  well  greased  pan  and  add  gravy,  if  there  is  any  left, 
if  not,  tomato  dressing,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  hot 
oven  or  until  brown. 

CHILI  CON  CARNE— One  round  steak,  ground,  one  table- 
spoon of  lard,  half  of  a  medimum-sized  onion,  six  cloves  or 
garlic,  six  chili  peppers,  pinch  of  salt.  Take  seed  out  of 
peppers,  boil  peppers  in  water  and  they  will  skin  easily. 
Chop  fine  and  add  to  the  meat. 

MEXICAN  CHILI  NO.  1— One  pound  chopped  beef,  one 
tablespoon  of  chili,  small  onion,  two  small  potatoes,  half 
can  tomatoes.  Put  chili  in  cup  of  hot  water;  let  stand 
until  beef  and  potatoes  are  done ;  then  pour  in  and  boil 
together. 

MEXICAN  CHILI  NO.  2 — Chop  one  pound  of  beef  into  small 
pieces ;  fry  till  brown  two  tablespoons  of  lard ;  add  three 
pints  of  water  and  Eagle  chili  powder  to  suit  the  taste. 
Boil  thirty  minutes. 

—73— 


CHILI  CON  CARNE — Put  two  tablespoons  of  lard  in  a  ket- 
tle and  let  heat,  then  add  one  pound  of  ground  chili  meat, 
cooked  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  then  add  one 
quart  of  water,  three  pods  of  chili  pepper,  removing  seed, 
one  tablespoon  camena  seed ;  add  water  and  cook  well. 

STUFFED  EGGS — Boil  one  dozen  eggs  until  hard,  cut  in 
halves,  take  yolks  out  and  mash  the  yellows  to  a  cream; 
add  a  lump  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  little  mus- 
tard and  tiny  bit  of  ground  celery  seed,  and  a  small  box  of 
potted  ham ;  mix  all  together  and  stuff  back  into  the 
whites. 

WELSH  RAREBIT— Boil  one  cup  of  milk,  tablespoon  of 
mustard,  cayenne  pepper  to  taste ;  into  this,  put  one  pound 
of  grated  cheese,  the  yolks  of  four  well  beaten  eggs ;  when 
thick  and  smooth  pour  over  toasted  bread  or  crackers. 
Serve  very  hot. 

HOME-MADE  LYE  HOMINY— Take  one  quart  of  big 
cracked  hominy,  put  in  pot  full  of  water;  after  it  com- 
mences to  boil,  acid  one  teaspoonful  of  soda;  stir  often 
and  cook  slowly  till  done.  If  it  gets  too  dry  before  done, 
add  a  little  more  water.  When  clone,  put  a  tablespoon 
of  grease  in  skillet,  if  too  dry  add  a  little  more  water; 
mash  as  much  of  your  hominy  as  you  need  for  a  meal,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste  and  fry.  Put  the  balance  in  refrig- 
erator for  future  use.  You  cannot  tell  this  from  the  old- 
fashioned  lye  hominy. 

SPANISH  TONGUE— Boil  a  beef  tongue  until  tender,  take 
off  the  outer  skin,  then  rub  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an 
egg.  Put  in  a  baking  dish ;  acid  one-half  cup  of  water  in 
which  the  tongue  was  cooked,  one-half  glass  of  wane  and 
one-half  can  of  mushrooms ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  let  bake  until  brown;  serve,  garnish  with  the  mush- 
rooms. 

VEAL  LOAF — Three  pounds  of  beefsteak,  ground,  six 
crackers  pulverized,  three  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter one  teaspoon  of  p  ne-half  teaspoon  pulverized 


sage  (if  liked) ,  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Make  into  pone  and 
bake  brown.  Make  a  tomato  sauce  and  pour  over  it  and 
cook  a  while  in  it.  Put  a  little  ground  onion  in  your  loaf, 
too. 

OX  EYE  EGGS — Take  pieces  of  nicely  browned  toast,  dip 
each  piece  in  a  pan  of  hot  milk,  and  arrange  as  many 
pieces  on  a  dish  as  you  have  people  to  serve.  Take  as 
many  eggs  as  pieces  of  toast  and  separate,  being  careful 
not  to  break  the  yolks.  Every  yolk  should  be  put  into  a 
saucer  by  itself.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  put 
some  on  every  piece  of  toast  and  drop  one  yolk  down  in 
the  middle  of  the  whites  on  toast,  sprinkle  each  with  salt, 
put  a  pea  of  butter  on  each  yolk,  set  dish  on  stove  till 
whites  are  slightly  browned,  arrange  around  dish  with 
parsley. 

EGGS  A  LA  ENGLISH— Fix  English  peas  in  a  pan  with 
cream  dressing  the  usual  way ;  break  your  eggs  right  into 
the  pan  with  your  peas  and  let  them  poach;  have  nicely 
browned  bread  and  lift  them  out  and  serve  on  toast  with 
peas  sticking  over  the  eggs  with  melted  butter  poured 
over  each  piece.  Have  a  good  deal  of  dressing  in  pan  with 
peas. 

POTATO  SOMERSET  STLYE— Two  cups  hot  diced  pota- 
toes, two  tablespoons  butter,  one-half  cup  grated  cheese, 
yolks  three  eggs  slightly  beaten,  one-half  teaspoon  salt 
and  a  few  grains  cayenne  pepper.  Shape  in  form  of  birds, 
dip  in  crumbs,  egg  the  crumbs,  insert  pieces  of  raw  pota- 
to cut  to  represent  wings  and  tail,  and  cloves  to  represent 
eyes.     Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

POTATO  NESTS — Wash,  pare  and  cut  potatoes  in  thin 
strips,  using  same  sheer  as  for  lattice  potatoes;  soak  in 
cold  water  fifteen  minutes,  drain  and  dry  between  towels. 
Line  a  fine  strainer  of  four  inch  diameter  having  a  wire 
handle,  with  potatoes,  place  a  similar  strainer  having  a 
two  and  one-half  inch  diameter  in  larger  strainer,  thus 
holding  potatoes  in  nest  shapes.     Fry  in  deep  fat  taking 


care  that  the  fat  does  not  reach  too  high  a  temperature 
at  first.  Keep  the  small  strainer  in  place  during  frying 
with  a  long  handled  spoon.  Carefully  remove  nests  from 
strainer,  drain  on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 
Fill  with  small  fillets  of  fried  fish. 

CHEESE  STRAWS— Roll  puff  or  plain  paste  one-fourth  of 
an  inch  thick,  sprinkle  one-half  with  grated  cheese  to 
which  has  been  added  a  few  grains  of  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper.  Fold,  press  edges  firmly  together,  fold  again, 
pat  and  roll  out  one-fourth  inch  thick.  Sprinkle  with 
cheese  and  proceed  as  before.  Repeat  twice;  cut  in  strips 
five  inches  long  and  one-fourth  wide.  Bake  eight  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven.  Cheese  straws  are  piled  log  cabin 
style  and  served  with  cheese  or  salad  course. 

HAM  SOUFFLE — Two  tablespoons  butter,  two  flour,  one 
and  one-half  cups  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  tablespoon  chili 
sauce,  one  tablespoon  grated  cheese,  one  cup  ground  ham, 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  season.  Melt  the  butter  and 
add  the  flour  and  stir  until  smooth.  Heat  milk  and  grad- 
ually pour  into  flour  mixture,  stirring  constantly  until  it 
thickens.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs,  chili  sauce,  cheese  and  seasoning.  Set  aside 
to  cool  and  when  cold  stir  in  ham  and  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Pour  into  a  well  buttered  and  hot 
baking  dish.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  until  firm  in 
the  center.  Garnish  with  parsley  or  water  cress  and 
serve  immediately. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE— Make  a  white  sauce  using  two  table- 
spoons fat,  three  tablespoons  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
speck  of  cayenne  and  one-half  cup  of  milk.  Add  one-half 
cup  grated  cheese.  Fold  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  then  fold  in  the  beaten  whites.  Pour  into  a  greased 
baking  dish  that  will  fit  the  cooker  rack.  Regulate  heat 
till  testing  paper  browns  in  forty-five  seconds.  Bake 
forty  minutes. 

—76— 


SPANISH  OMELET— Put  two  tablespoonsful  oil  into  a 
frying  pan  and  fry  in  it.  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  green 
peppers,  one  of  onion  and  one  of  chopped  olives,  add  three 
good  sized  tomatoes  ad  stew  gently  until  the  sauce  is 
rich  and  thick.  Beat  six  eggs  until  light,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  turn  into  the  omelet  pan.  When  the  ome- 
let is  well  settled  and  about  done  pour  sauce  in  the  middle 
and  fold  over,  or  place  the  sauce  around  the  omelet.  Green 
peas  added  make  a  nice  garnish. 

POTAOTO  OMELET  WITH  BACON  STRIPS— Fry  several 
thin  slices  of  bacon,  take  four  cups  boiled  Irish  potatoes, 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one  table- 
spoon chopped  parsley.  Pour  in  skillet  where  bacon  was 
fried,  brown  nicely  and  turn  like  an  omelet.  Serve  on 
dish  with  bacon  strips  arranged  on  omelet. 


—77— 


ICES 


TUTTI  FRUITTI  CREAM— One  quart  water,  juice  of  three 
lemons;  one  can  grated  pineapple;  three  or  four  large 
oranges,  cut  into  small  pieces;  six  bananas,  sliced  fine, 
three  or  four  soft  peaches;  add  sugar  until  very  sweet, 
add  whites  of  well  beaten  eggs  and  freeze. 

BRULE  ICE  CREAM— Two  quarts  milk,  two  cups  sugar 
and  six  eggs;  mix  milk  and  one-half  of  sugar  together; 
put  other  half  sugar  into  kettle  to  dissolve  on  stove ;  when 
it  begins  to  turn  brown  pour  into  custard  and  boil  until 
thick;  when  cool,  add  one  pint  rich  cream  and  freeze  at 
once. 

OLD  FASHIONED  BOILED  CUSTARD     ICE     CREAM— 

Take  three  quarts  of  sweet  milk,  eight  eggs,  beaten  sep- 
arately; two  cups  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  flour,  sifted 
into  the  sugar;  beat  flour,  sugar  and  eggs  together  until 
light;  then,  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  mix 
all  together  and  pour  into  the  hot  milk,  which  should  be 
boiled  in  a  double  boiler  or  bucket ;  set  in  a  pan  of  water. 
Let  cook  until  thick,  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

GRAPE  JUICE  SHERBET— Make  one  gallon  lemonade  and 
add  one  pint  grape  juice  and  one  quart  milk.  Sweeten  to 
taste  and  freeze. 

PROVIDENCE  FROZEN  FIG  PUDDING— One  pint  milk, 
one-half  cup  each  dates,  figs,  and  English  walnuts,  chop- 
ped fine,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  eggs  and  one  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Beat  eggs,  milk  and  sugar  together  and  cook 
until  it  thickens.  When  nearly  cool  stir  in  the  dates,  figs 
and  nuts ;  add  vanilla  and  freeze. 

—78— 


CRANBERRY  PUNCH — Two  quarts  of  cranberries,  sweet- 
ened to  taste,  cooked  and  put  through  a  collander ;  add  a 
glass  of  good  brandy  and  enough  water  to  make  a  gallon 
of  ice  and  freeze.     Nice  with  turkey  course. 

PUNCH — Put  a  pint  of  water,  the  chopped  rind  of  a  lemon 
and  a  pound  of  sugar  on  to  boil ;  boil  five  minutes ;  remove 
from  fire  and  allow  to  cool ;  when  ready  to  serve,  add  the 
juice  of  eight  lemons,  a  can  of  grated  pineapple,  a  can  of 
cherries  and  Appollinaris  water,  or  plain  water  if  prefer- 
red, sufficient  to  serve. 

CHERRY  MOUSSE— Soak  one-fourth  box  gelatine  in  one- 
half  cup  of  warm  water  until  dissolved ;  whip  one  pint  of 
cream;  add  gelatine  and  one  cup  of  crystalized  cherries 
and  sweeten  to  taste.  Put  in  a  mold  and  pack  in  ice  and 
salt  until  it  begins  to  stiffen,  stirring  frequently  to  pre- 
vent cherries  from  settling ;  let  stand  about  two  hours  be- 
fore serving. 

FRUIT  PUNCH — Two  dozen  lemons,  one-half  jar  of  Mara- 
schino cherries,  six  oranges,  one  can  of  cherries,  two  cans 
pineapple,  cut  in  pieces,  one  can  of  grapes,  one  box  straw- 
berries, one  gallon  of  Appolinaris  water;  sweeten  to 
taste;  put  in  juice  of  the  canned  fruit;  put  into  this  a 
large  block  of  ice. 

ORANGE  SHERBET— Juice  of  six  lemons,  juice  of  eight 
oranges,  one  pint  box  of  grated  pineapple,  three  quarts 
of  water ;  sweeten  to  taste  and  freeze. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET — One  can  of  grated  pineapples; 
pour  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  over  it  and  add  five  cups 
of  sugar,  juice  of  ten  lemons,  leave  the  rincl  in  until  cool, 
then  take  the  rinds  out  and  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
well  beaten  and  one  quart  of  milk ;  freeze  as  soon  as  you 
put  the  milk  in.    This  is  fine. 

GRAPE  ICE — One  quart  of  grape  juice,  one  cup  of  orange 
juice;  make  sweet;  white  of  one  egg,  beaten  stiff.  Freeze. 

—79— 


STRAWBERRY  ICE— For  one  gallon  of  strawberry  ice,  use 
two  boxes  of  berries,  pick  and  wash,  three  cups  of  sugar, 
one  quart  of  cream,  two  tablespoons  of  gelatine,  one  pint 
of  water,  whites  of  two  eggs.  Dissolve  Knox  gelatine  in 
a  little  cold  water;  to  the  sugar,  add  the  pint  of  water 
and  set  on  the  stove  to  boil ;  add  dissolved  gelatine  and  let 
boil  a  few  minutes  longer;  set  off  to  cool;  then  add  the 
crushed  berries ;  then  the  cream  and  put  into  the  freezer ; 
after  it  begins  to  freeze  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well 
beaten.     The  juice  of  two  lemons  will  improve  it. 

FROZEN  GRAPE  ICE— To  a  quart  of  grape  juice,  add  a 
pint  of  water;  sweeten  to  taste  and  when  about  frozen, 
add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  con- 
tinue the  freezing  process  until  the  eggs  and  ice  are  thor- 
oughly mixed  and  hard  frozen ;  set  for  an  hour  or  more. 
This  amount,  when  properly  mixed,  will  fill  a  six-quart 
freezer ;  if  preferred,  a  lemon  may  be  added  in  making  the 
ice ;  this  is  delicious. 

ICED  APRICOT — One  can  of  apricots,  one  quart  of  water, 
lemon,  one  orange,  yolk  of  one  egg,  three  cups  of  sugar; 
dissolve  sugar  in  water  and  boil  to  a  syrup;  when  cool, 
add  the  orange,  lemon,  and  can  of  apricots  with  the  skin 
removed  and  mashed  up;  freeze;  it  is  fine  with  a  cup  of 
cream  added. 

ANGEL  ICE — Three  pints  of  thick  cream ;  before  whipping, 
add  one  cup  of  sherry  wine ;  whip  to  a  stiff  froth  and  place 
on  ice.  The  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  one  pint  of 
sugar;  pour  enough  of  water  over  sugar  to  dissolve  and 
cook  as  for  icing ;  beat  into  the  eggs ;  then  fold  the  cream 
in  the  eggs  and  sugar,  pack  in  freezer  and  let  stand  three 
or  four  hours. 

BLACKBERRY  ACID— Three  gallons  blackberries,  two  gal- 
lons water  (boiling),  let  stand  twenty-four  hours;  strain 
then  add  to  every  three  pints  of  juice,  two  pounds  of 
sugar,  three  ounces  tartaric  acid  to  the  whole,  let  stand 
twenty-four  hours ;  strain  and  bottle ;  put  up  hot  or  cold. 

—80— 


BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL— One  quart  blackberry  juice, 
one  pound  of  sugar,  mace,  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon 
to  taste ;  boil  until  thick  and  strain  through  a  sieve  when 
cold ;  to  every  gallon  of  juice,  add  a  quart  of  brandy. 

STRAWBERRY  COCKTAIL— One  quart  strawberries,  one 
quart  sugar,  wash  and  cap  berries,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
let  stand  an  hour,  mash  fine  and  put  in  cocktail  glasses 
and  serve  with  one  spoon  of  pineapple  sherbet  colored 
green. 


—81- 


PICKLE  8 


MIXED  PICKLE — Two  gallons  chopped  cabbage  and  green 
tomatoes,  one  gallon  each ;  one  pint  of  chopped  onions ; 
sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  let  stand  all  night ;  next  morn- 
ing, squeeze  out  the  brine;  put  in  your  kettle  with  five 
tablespoons  of  mustard,  three  gills  of  white  mustard  seed, 
two  tablespoons  of  ground  black  pepper,  two  of  allspice, 
two  teaspoons  ground  cloves,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  one 
tablespoon  of  celery  seed,  one  tablespoon  of  tumeric,  mix 
all  these  well  with  vinegar,  then  mix  with  cabbage  and 
tomatoes;  acid  three  quarts  best  cider  vinegar;  put  all  on 
stove,  cook  well  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

SWEET  PEACH  PICKLE— Seven  pounds  of  fruit,  three 
and  a  half  pounds  sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar ;  stick  three 
cloves  in  each  peach;  put  on  vinegar  and  sugar;  when 
very  hot,  drop  in  fruit ;  when  tender,  put  in  jars. 

CABBAGE  PICKLE — Put  cabbage  in  brine  for  a  week,  then 
take  out ;  put  in  weak  vinegar  to  take  out  salt ;  let  remain 
in  vinegar  twenty-four  hours ;  it  is  then  ready  for  the 
pickle,  wrhich  is  made  in  the  following  manner:  To  one 
gallon  of  vinegar,  put  two  pounds  of  sugar,  three  ounces 
of  tumeric,  some  ground  mustard,  one  teacup  of  white 
mustard  seed,  one  teacup  of  black  pepper  seed,  two  whole 
peppers,  celery  seed,  one  tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  spice, 
pepper  and  mace,  two  nutmegs,  grated ;  pour  all  in  boiler, 
let  boil ;  when  cold  pour  over  cabbage. 

CHOW  CHOW  PICKLE— Take  one  and  a  half  pecks  green 
tomatoes,  one  and  a  half  dozen  onions,  three  heads  cab- 
bage, one  dozen  green  peppers,  two  dozen  red  peppers  and 
chop  as  desired ;  sprinkle  half  pint  salt  over  them ;  put 

—82— 


them  in  a  thin  domestic  bag;  let  drain  all  night;  put  in 
granite  kettle  or  pan  with  two  pounds  sugar,  one  and  one- 
half  grated  horse  radish,  one  tablespoon  each  of  ground 
black  pepper,  ground  mustard,  white  mustard,  mace,  cel- 
ery seed;  cover  all  with  vinegar  and  let  boil  till  clear. 

GREEN  BELL  PEPPER  CATSUP— Take  one  hundred  pods 
of  green  pepper,  one  gallon  of  vinegar;  boil  together  till 
soft  enough  to  strain  or  press  through  a  sieve ;  then  add 
two  tablespoons  white  mustard  seed,  ground,  three  table-  ' 
spoons  of  salt,  one  of  black  pepper,  small  cup  of  sugar 
and  half  pint  of  onions  chopped  fine ;  add  spice  and  celery 
seed  to  suit  the  taste.  Boil  until  onions  are  well  cooked 
and  bottle  tight ;  this  is  fine  on  meats. 

TOMATO  CATSUP — To  every  gallon  of  tomatoes,  sliced, 
add  five  tablespoonsful  of  salt,  two  of  cayenne,  and  two 
of  black  pepper,  one  teaspoon  of  mace,  one  of  cinnamon, 
one-half  teaspoon  cloves,  two  large  onions,  sliced,  one 
tumbler  full  of  good  brown  sugar,  one  quart  of  good  apple 
vinegar,  one  tablespoon  of  mustard ;  stir  often ;  cook  four 
hours ;  bottle  when  cold.     This  is  excellent. 

CHILI  SAUCE — Thirty-six  ripe  tomatoes,  one  can  may  be 
used,  eight  medium  sized  onions,  twelve  green  peppers, 
eight  tablespoons  of  sugar,  seven  level  of  salt,  eight  small 
teacups  of  vinegar ;  put  all  in  kettle ;  chop  up  well ;  add 
one  teaspoon  each  of  ground  cloves,  spice,  mace,  nutmeg, 
black  and  red  pepper.  One  tablespoon  of  Coleman's  mus- 
tard, cooked  till  thick,  which  generally  requires  three  or 
four  hours;  stir  constantly  to  prevent  scorching.  This 
never  spoils  if  cooked  enough  and  sealed  tightly. 

SALAD  RELISH— Two  quarts  green  tomatoes,  chopped 
fine,  measure  all  ingredients  after  chopping  fine,  one 
quart  of  onions,  nine  quarts  of  bell  pepper,  eight  quarts 
of  hot  pepper;  mix  and  cook  with  cold  water;  add  half 
cup  of  salt  and  boil  tender.  Dressing:  If  vinegar  is 
very  strong,  dilute  with  a  little  water  and  use  two  quarts, 
three  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  flour,  ten  tablespoons  of  mus- 

— S3— 


tard,  five  cents  worth  of  tumeric;  mix  well,  commencing 
with  just  a  little  vinegar;  boil  in  double  boiler  until  con- 
sistency of  cream;  then  add  one  quart  of  chopped,  sour 
cucumber  pickles;  pour  over  the  other  mixture  and  boil 
a  little  while;  seal  like  fruit.  This  makes  fine  sand- 
wiches, mixed  with  ground  meat. 

PIMENTOS — Take  one  pint  of  cooking  oil  for  a  small 
amount  and  season  with  vinegar  to  taste,  add  salt  and 
red  pepper  to  taste.  Put  the  cooking  oil  and  vinegar  on 
stove  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  big  red  bell 
pepper  and  let  them  boil  just  a  little.  Put  the  whole  in  a 
jar  and  seal  tightly. 

A  SWEET  TOMATO  PICKLE— Seven  pounds  sliced  toma- 
toes, (green) ,  four  pounds  sugar,  three  quarts  of  vinegar, 
one  pound  seeded  raisins,  cinnamon  two  teaspoons,  spice 
two  teaspoons,  cloves  two  teaspoons.  Soak  tomatoes  in 
bucket  of  water  with  a  teacup  of  lime  in  it  two  or  three 
hours,  then  drain  off  and  soak  a  while  in  a  little  fresh 
water.  Boil  all  together  about  two  hours.  Don't  add  the 
raisins  until  nearly  done,  add  a  little  salt  to  taste  before 
cooking. 

A  MIXED  PICKLE — Two  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  one 
quart  of  red  tomatoes;  after  scalding  and  taking  peeling 
off,  add  three  small  bunches  of  celery  chopped  fine  or  two 
tablespoons  of  celery  seed;  three  large  onions,  three  red 
sweet  peppers,  three  green  sweet  peppers,  leaving  out 
seed  part.  One  small  head  of  cabbage,  one  ripe  cucumber, 
half  a  cup  of  salt.  Chop  the  vegetables,  cover  them  with 
salt,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  well  next  morning. 
Add  three  pints  of  vinegar,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one  teaspoon  of  black  pepper. 
Cook  until  clear  about  an  hour  and  three-quarters.  Let 
cool  and  seal  in  jar. 


-84- 


PRESERVES,  JELLIES  AND 
CANNED  FRUITS 


FIG  PRESERVES— Take  figs  not  quite  ripe  enough  to  eat, 
don't  peel  or  pull  stems  off,  put  them  in  a  bucket  of  cold 
water  and  pour  one-half  teacup  of  lime  in  water  and  stir 
up;  let  the  figs  stand  in  this  water  one  hour  (this  keeps 
them  from  mashing  up) ,  then  rinse  them  in  another  buck- 
et of  pure  water ;  then  weigh  them ;  put  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit;  let  boil  until 
syrup  is  pretty  thick.  When  you  first  put  the  figs  and 
sugar  on  to  cook,  pour  just  enough  water  over  it  to  keep 
from  burning. 

PEAR  PRESERVES— Take  pears,  peel,  quarter  and  re- 
move all  core ;  measure  three-quarters  pound  sugar  to  one 
pound  of  fruit ;  put  sugar  over  fruit  and  let  stand  all 
night;  next  morning  cook  until  syrup  is  thick;  put  in  a 
sliced  lemon  if  preferred. 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES— To  every  quart  of  berries, 
use  one  quart  of  sugar;  boil  each  quart  of  berries  and 
sugar  in  a  pan  to  itself ;  boil  hard  for  twenty  minutes  and 
then  seal  in  a  tight  jar  while  hot.  Fix  each  quart  of  ber- 
ries and  sugar  this  way.  You  will  find  it  easier  and  better 
than  the  old  way  of  boiling  them  all  together  at  once. 

PLUM  PRESERVES— Take  one  pound  of  sugar  to  each 
pound  of  plums  and  cook  until  done. 

MUSCADINE  PRESERVES— Wash  the  muscadines;  sepa- 
rate the  hulls  and  pulp  and  boil  the  hulls  until  tender  in 
barely  enough  water  to  cover  them;  boil  the  pulps  in  a 
little  water  and  mash  through  a  sifter  to  extract  seed, 
add  pulp  to  hulls,  then  add  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of 
fruit;  boil  steadily  thirty  minutes  or  until  well  done. 

—85— 


BLACKBERRY  JAM— Take  berries,  wash  and  put  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit;  boil 
until  thick;  put  a  little  water  over  fruit  to  start  cooking. 

WILD  PLUM  JELLY— Take  wild  plums,  wash  and  put  in 
kettle  to  boil,  cover  with  water;  boil  until  mushy;  take 
off;  cool  and  strain  through  a  thin  domestic  bag;  take  a 
cup  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of  juice  until  it  is  all  measured; 
let  boil  till  it  will  jelly  when  cooled  in  a  saucer;  keep  try- 
ing it  until  done,  pour  into  jelly  glasses  while  hot.  By 
recooking  for  a  short  time,  the  plums  may  be  used  to  get 
more  juice  and  more  jelly  made  from  them,  almost  as 
much  as  from  the  first  squeezing. 

CANNED  PEACHES— Take  peaches,  peel  and  quarter 
them  off  the  seed;  weigh  and  put  one-quarter  pound  of 
sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit ;  let  stand  all  night  with  sugar 
over  it;  next  morning,  boil  until  you  can  stick  a  straw 
through  them,  put  in  jars  while  hot  and  seal.  Be  sure 
your  rubbers  are  on  air  tight. 

BRANDIED  PEACHES— Put  the  peaches  in  boiling  water 
for  a  few  minutes  so  the  skin  will  peel  off  easily ;  make  a 
syrup  of  one-half  pound  of  sugar  to  one-half  cup  of  water 
to  each  pound  of  peaches;  skim  as  skum  rises  in  boiling; 
then  put  in  peaches  and  boil  gently  till  tender,  and  no 
longer.  Take  them  out  carefully  and  fill  jars ;  remove  the 
syrup  from  fire  and  add  to  it  half  pint  of  brandy  to  every 
pound  of  peaches.    The  peaches  should  be  two-thirds  ripe. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY— Pick  and  wash  the  cranberries 
thoroughly,  put  on  to  cook  with  enough  water  to  cover, 
let  boil  until  tender  then  add  sugar  enough  to  sweeten 
to  taste,  cook  until  it  will  jelly  in  a  saucer  when  cooled, 
take  off,  rub  through  a  sifter  into  a  bowl,  when  cool  slice 
and  serve  with  fowl  or  other  meats. 


—86— 


THE  ART  OF  DRYING 

AND  CANNING 


The  cold  pack  method  of  canning  is  so  simple  and  the  in- 
structions so  easily  followed  that  the  women  of  the  coun- 
try are  taking  up  the  work  by  the  thousands,  says  the 
National  Emergency  Food  Garden  Commission. 
In  the  cold  pack  method  these  are  the  steps  taken : 

1. — Select  sound  vegetables  and  fruits.  If  possible  can 
them  the  same  day  they  are  picked.  Wash,  clean  and 
prepare  them. 

2. — Have  ready  on  the  stove,  can  or  pail  of  boiling  water. 

3. — Place  the  vegetables  or  fruits  in  cheesecloth  or  in  some 
other  porous  receptacle — a  wire  basket  is  excellent — 
for  dipping  and  blanching  them  in  boiling  water. 

4. — Put  them  whole  into  the  boiling  water.  After  the 
water  begins  to  boil  begin  to  count  the  blanching 
time. 

5. — The  blanching  time  varies  from  one  to  20  minutes,  ac- 
cording to  the  vegetable  or  fruit.  When  the  blanch- 
ing is  complete  remove  the  vegetables  or  fruits  from 
the  boiling  water  and  plunge  them  a  number  of 
times  into  cold  water,  to  harden  the  pulp  and  check 
the  flow  of  coloring  matter.  Do  not  allow  to  stand 
in  cold  water. 

6. — The  containers  should  be  thoroughly  clean.  It  is  not 
necessary  to  sterilize  them  in  steam  or  boiling  water 
before  filling  them,  for  the  reason  that  in  the  cold 
pack  process  both  the  insides  of  containers  and  the 
contents  are  sterilized.  The  jars  should  be  heated 
before  the  cold  product  is  put  in  them. 

—87— 


7. — Pack  the  product  into  the  containers,  leaving  about  a 

quarter  of  an  inch  of  space  at  the  top. 
8. — With  vegetables  add  one  level  teaspoon  of  salt  to 
each  quart  container  and  fill  with  boiling  water. 
With  fruits  use  syrups. 
9. — With  glass  jars  always  use  a  new  rubber.  Test  the 
rubber  by  stretching  or  turning  inside  out.  Fit  on 
the  rubber  and  put  the  lid  in  place.  If  the  container 
has  a  screw,  twist  it  up  as  hard  as  possible,  but  use 
only  the  thumb  and  little  finger  in  tightening  it.  This 
makes  it  possible  for  steam  generated  within  to 
escape  and  prevents  breakage.  If  a  glass  top  jar  is 
used  snap  the  top  bail  only,  leaving  the  lower  bail 
loose  during  sterilization.  Tin  cans  should  be  com- 
pletely sealed. 

10. — Place  the  filled  and  capped  containers  on  the  rack  in 
the  sterilizer.  If  the  home-made  or  commercial  hot 
water  bath  outfit  is  used  some  authorities  insist  that 
enough  water  should  be  in  the  boiler  to  come  at  least 
one  inch  above  the  tops  of  the  containers,  and  that 
the  water,  in  boiling  out,  should  never  be  allowed  to 
drop  to  the  level  of  these  tops.  Begin  to  count  pro- 
cessing time  when  the  water  begins  to  boil. 

11. — At  the  end  of  the  sterilizing  period  remove  the  con- 
tainers from  the  sterilizer.  Fasten  covers  on  tightly 
at  once,  tip  each  container  over  to  test  for  leakage, 
and  store.  Be  sure  that  no  draught  is  allowed  to 
blow  on  glass  jars,  as  it  may  cause  breakage. 

12. — If  jars  are  to  be  stored  where  there  is  strong  light 
wrap  them  in  paper,  preferable  brown,  as  light  will 
fade  the  color  of  products  canned  in  glass  jars,  and 
sometimes  deteriorate  the  food  value. 

Vegetables  are  blanched  before  being  put  up  for  three  pur- 
poses— to  eliminate  objectionable  acids,  to  set  coloring 
matter  and  to  make  texture  firm  for  sterilization. 

The  object  of  the  cold  dip  is  to  separate  the  skin  and  harden 
the  pulp,  to  set  color  bodies  and  to  render  packing  easier. 

—88— 


These  recipes  are  recommended  by  the  U.  S.  government. 

TOMATOES — Grade  according  to  ripeness,  size  and  equali- 
ty. Scald  to  loosen  the  skins.  Dip  in  cold  water  and  re- 
move the  skin.  Pack  whole.  Fill  with  tomatoes  only  and 
add  one  level  teaspoonful  salt  to  each  quart.  Place  the 
rubber  and  partly  seal.  Sterilize  22  minutes  in  the  hot 
water  bath.  Remove  the  jars,  tighten  the  covers,  test 
the  joints  and  invert  to  cool. 

CARROTS,  PARSNIPS,  SWEET  POTATOES,  ETC.— Scald 
from  one  to  five  minutes  in  boiling  water.  Plunge  in  cold 
water.  Remove  skins,  pack  whole  or  sliced,  add  boiling 
water  and  one  level  teaspoons  salt  to  each  quart.  Place 
rubber  and  top,  then  partly  tighten.  Leave  one  and  one- 
half  hours  in  hot  water  bath. 

EGG  PLANT — Scald  five  minutes  in  boiling  salty  water ; 
plunge  in  cold  water;  remove  skin.  Slice  crosswise  and 
pack ;  add  boiling  water  and  one  level  teaspoonful  salt  for 
to  each  pint.  Place  rubber  and  top,  then  partly  tighten. 
Leave  one  hour  in  hot  water  bath.  Remove  jars,  tighten 
covers  and  invert  to  cool. 

SWEET  CORN — On  the  Cob — Blanch  in  boiling  water  10  to 
15  minutes,  according  to  ripeness,  size  and  freshness; 
plunge  in  cold  water.  Pack,  alternating  buts  and  tips; 
add  just  a  little  boiling  water  and  one  level  teaspoonful 
of  salt  to  each  quart.  Place  rubber  and  top  and  partly 
tighten.  Sterilize  one  and  a  half  hours  in  water-seal  out- 
fit. Remove  jars,  tighten  covers,  invert  and  cool.  (Heat 
up  for  table  use  in  steamer,  not  in  water.) 

SWEET  CORN — Off  the  Cob — Same  as  the  foregoing  reci- 
pe, except  cut  from  ear  after  blanching.  Pack  and  fill 
jars  with  boiling  water,  adding  one  level  teaspoon  salt  to 
each  pint.     Proceed  as  before. 

PEAS,  BEANS,  OKRA,  ETC.— Blanch  five  to  10  minutes  in 
boiling  water;  plunge  in  cold  water.  Pack  and  add  boiling 
water  and  one  level  teaspoonful  salt  to  each  pint.  Place 
rubber  and  top,  then  partly  tighten  top.  Process  one  and 
one-half  hours  in  hot  water  bath. 

—89— 


BEETS,  TURNIPS,  ETC.— Blanch  one  to  10  minutes  in  boil- 
ing water ;  plunge  in  cold  water,  remove  skins.  Slice  and 
pack ;  add  boiling  water  and  one  level  teaspoonf ul  salt  for 
each  pint.  Place  rubber  and  top  and  partly  tighten.  Pro- 
cess one  and  one-half  hours  in  hot  water  bath.  Remove 
jars,  tighten  covers  and  invert  to  cool. 

GREENS — (Spinach,  Dandelions,  Mustard,  Beet  Tops,  Swiss 
Chard) — Blanch  in  boiling  water  10  to  20  minutes,  plunge 
in  cold  water.  Cut  ready  for  table  use.  Season  with 
slice  of  bacon  for  each  pint.  Pack,  add  hot  water  and  a 
little  salt  to  each  quart.  Place  rubber  and  top  and  partly 
tighten.  Process  90  minutes  in  hot  water  bath.  Remove, 
tighten  covers  and  invert  to  cool.  It  is  always  advisable 
to  process  the  greens  a  short  time  before  packing  in  or- 
der to  reduce  the  bulk  or  make  possible  a  full  pack. 

Great  results  are  expected  from  the  dehydrating  processes, 
which  have  been  much  improved  and  are  being  made  use 
of  more  extensively  this  year  than  ever  before.  One  of 
the  kind  which  may  be  used  in  private  houses  is  in  daily 
operation  at  the  depot  in  Hicksville,  L.  I.  Here  on  three 
days  of  the  week  garden  and  farm  products  are  preserved 
under  comteptent  instructors  and  will  be  stored  and  sold 
under  the  direction  of  the  Long  Island  Food  Battalion.  On 
the  other  three  week  days  the  kitchen  is  open  to  women 
of  the  district  who  wish  to  preserve  their  own  fruit  and 
vegetables. 

All  kinds  of  vegetables  may  be  dried.  They  must  be 
washed  and,  those  that  require  it,  peeled  and  sliced.  Mod- 
ern drying  is  not  the  tedious  process  that  it  was  in  other 
times.  Small  quantities  can  be  sufficiently  dried  in  from 
two  to  four  hours,  according  to  the  degree  of  succulence. 
They  not  only  retain  their  flavor  but  much  of  their  color, 
and  when  put  in  water  to  soak  for  cooking  have  all  the 
value  of  fresh  vegetables.  Not  only  is  there  a  great  sav- 
ing in  money  in  preserving  fruits  and  vegetables  in  this 
way,  but  they  require  less  room  for  storage  and  will  keep 
almost  indefinitely. 

—90— 


CANDIES 


ENGLISH  TOFFEE  CANDY— Three  cups  dark  brown  su- 
gar, one  can  condensed  milk  (Dime  Brand)  butter,  size 
of  an  egg ;  mix  sugar,  milk  and  butter ;  place  on  fire  and 
stir  constantly  and  let  the  sugar  melt  thoroughly ;  cook 
till  it  threads  or  hardens  in  cold  water;  beat  thoroughly 
and  add  one  cup  of  pecans  or  walnuts ;  pour  on  dish  and 
cut  in  squares.     This  needs  no  flavoring. 

HEAVENLY  HASH  CANDY— One  pint  white  sugar,  one 
pint  brown  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk  and  water  mixed,  two 
tablespoons  butter,  chocolate  to  color;  cook  until  it  will 
harden  in  water,  and  acid  one-fourth  pound  dates,  figs, 
cocoanut  and  nuts  to  suit  the  taste.  Chop  fruit  and 
nuts  fine ;  beat  candy  until  it  begins  to  harden,  then  pour 
on  a  tin  and  cut  in  squares. 

MARSHMALLOW  CANDY— Dissolve  one  box  Knox  gela- 
tine in  one  brimming  cup  of  lukewarm  water  for  one 
hour;  soak  four  cups  sugar  in  one  and  one-third  cups  of 
water  and  cook  like  icing.  When  done,  pour  syrup  over 
gelatine  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  forty  minutes; 
when  very  stiff  pour  on  a  dish  that  has  been  buttered  and 
the  surface  covered  with  powdered  sugar;  cut  in  squares 
and  roll  in  powdered  sugar.     Put  on  plates  to  dry. 

PEANUT  CRISP — Take  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar  and 
one  cup  of  peanuts,  chopped  slightly.  Put  sugar,  without 
any  water,  into  iron  pan  or  skillet  and  stir  until  it  melts, 
then  pour  over  nuts  which  have  been  placed  in  buttered 
dish. 

PENOTCHIE  CANDY— Take  three  cups  light  brown  sugar 
and  a  cup  of  milk ;  boil  until  when  dropped  into  water  will 

—91— 


form  soft  ball.  Add  a  teaspoon  of  butter  and  remove 
from  fire.  Add  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  a  cup  of  English 
walnuts,  meats  broken  fine.  Stir  until  candy  begins  to 
cream,  then  pour  it  quickly  into  a  buttered  dish,  making 
it  the  same  thickness  as  for  fudge.  Tried  once,  this  is  a 
prime  favorite. 

OLD  FASHIONED  BUTTER  SCOTCH— Two  cups  brown 
sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  four  tablespoons  molasses,  two 
of  water,  two  of  vinegar.  Put  into  a  porcelain  kettle ;  stir 
over  fire  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Then  boil  without  stir- 
ring until  it  hardens  when  dropped  into  cold  water,  pour 
into  shallow  buttered  pan  to  cool,  and  when  firm,  mark 
off  into  squares ;  when  cold,  break  off  on  lines. 

CARAMEL  CREAMS — Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup 
cream,  butter,  size  of  walnut ;  cook  as  for  fudge ;  add  one 
cup  of  English  walnuts ;  pour  into  a  buttered  pan ;  when 
cold  cut  into  squares. 

DIVINITY  FUDGE— Two  and  two-thirds  cups  sugar,  two- 
thirds  cup  corn  syrup,  two-thirds  cup  of  water,  whites 
of  two  eggs,  and  one  cup  chopped  up  pecans.  Put  sugar, 
water,  and  com  syrup  on,  and  let  boil  until  it  is  hard  when 
dropped  in  cup  of  cold  water.  Have  whites  of  eggs,  beat- 
en very  stiff,  and  then  beat  the  candy  mixture  with  them ; 
stir  in  nuts  and  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  beat  until  it  be- 
gins to  stiffen ;  pour  into  buttered  dish  and  cut  in  squares. 

CREAM  WALNUTS— Dissolve  one  pound  of  powdered 
sugar  in  half  cup  of  water ;  boil  five  minutes  and  cool 
slowly,  keeping  it  constantly  stirred,  and  flavor.  When 
cold,  if  not  stiff  enough  to  handle,  work  in  a  little  more 
sugar ;  roll  into  balls ;  press  half  of  an  English  walnut  on 
each  side  and  drop  into  granulated  sugar. 

CLUB  CANDY — Three  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk; 
cook  until  it  forms  a  stiff  ball  in  water,  take  from  fire 
and  beat  in  one-half  dozen  marshmallows,  cut  in  pieces; 
one  cup  grated  cocoanut;  one-half  cup  each  raisins  and 
nuts,  chopped  fine ;  pour  in  buttered  tins  and  cut  in 
-•ares. 

—92— 


SNOW  BALLS — Stuff  seedless  dates  with  marshmallows 
and  peaches ;  dip  in  plain  icing  and  at  once  roll  in  cocoanut. 

COCOANUT  CANDY— Boil  together  three  cups  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  one-half  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar ;  boil  ten  minutes  and  add  a  cup  of  grated 
cocoanut;  when  cool  cut  in  squares. 

FONDANT — Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  of  water, 
and  a  scant  quarter  of  a  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Never  stir  after  putting  on  fire.  When  it  begins  to  look 
syrupy,  stir  a  few  drops  in  a  saucer,  if  it  creams,  the 
candy  is  done ;  pour  out  and  stir  until  cool  enough  to  work 
with  hands ;  the  more  it  is  worked  the  creamier  it  gets. 

CANDIED  POP  CORN^-Put  into  an  iron  kettle,  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  three  tablespoons  of  water,  one  cup  of 
white  sugar;  boil  until  ready  to  candy;  then  throw  in 
three  quarts  of  nicely  popped  corn ;  stir  briskly  till  candy 
is  evenly  distributed  over  corn ;  take  kettle  from  fire ;  stir 
until  it  is  cooled  a  little  and  you  have  each  grain  separate 
crystalized  with  sugar,  taking  care  that  corn  does  not 
burn.     Nuts  of  any  kind  prepared  in  this  way  are  good. 

CARAMEL  CANDY — Take  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  cup 
sweet  milk ;  put  in  vessel  with  teaspoon  of  butter  and  let 
cook  slowly.  Put  one  cup  of  sugar  in  at  same  time  in  a 
skillet  and  let  brown,  stir  constantly  until  it  all  dissolves; 
then  pour  the  brown  sugar  into  the  other  and  stir  until 
all  of  the  lumps  dissolve.  Have  a  cup  of  pecans  cut  up. 
When  candy  strikes  hard  on  side  of  cup  in  cold  water,  it 
is  done.  Take  up,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  beat  pecans 
into  mixture.     Pour  on  dish  and  cut  into  squares. 

DATE  LOAF — Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one 
tablespoon  Karo  Corn  Syrup,  one  package  of  dates  two 
cups  chopped  pecans,  one  tablespoon  butter.  Cook  sugar 
and  milk  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold 
water,  then  add  butter  and  dates  chopped  fine,  stir  until 
elates  melt,  then  beat  until  it  begins  to  harden,  adding 
nuts  and  pour  the  whole  into  a  wet  napkin  and  roll  up. 
When  cold,  slice  end  ways  like  a  cake. 

—93— 


LIGHT  DIET  FOR 
THE  HICK 


HYGENIC  EGG — Butter  an  ordinary  glass,  fill  with  the 
white  of  one  egg  beaten  light,  put  yolk  on  the  top  and 
season  with  a  little  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  put  glass 
into  a  covered  vessel  of  steaming  water  until  cooked. 

PANNADA — Take  dry  bread  and  toast  and  cut  in  small 
squares,  add  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste,  cover  with  hot 
water  and  serve. 

LEMON  ALBUMEN— Take  the  juice  of  half  o  lemon,  white 
of  one  egg,  add  sugar  to  taste,  put  all  together  in  a  jar 
and  shake  well;  add  a  small  glass  of  water  and  strain. 

BOILED  FLOUR  FOR  SUMMER  COMPLAINT  IN  CHIL- 
DREN OR  FOR  INVALIDS— Put  a  pint  of  flour  in  a 
clean  sack  or  pudding  bag,  tie  and  place  in  pot  of  boiling 
water,  boil  eight  hours ;  when  done  peel  off  the  outer  layer 
and  you  will  have  a  hard  white  lump  of  flour,  milk  thick- 
ened with  some  of  this  flour  grated  makes  a  good  gruel, 
can  be  sweetened  or  salted  to  taste.  Can  be  eaten  in 
small  pieces  as  one  would  eat  candy,  and  is  excellent  in 
bowel  trouble. 

SURE  CURE  FOR  FLUX— Get  the  root  of  the  common 
blackberry  vine,  scrape  off  the  bark,  place  root  in  water 
and  steep  as  in  making  tea,  drink  freely ;  it  will  also  cure 
summer  complaint  in  teething  children  and  is  harmless. 

WHEN  BOILING  MILK— If  pans  in  which  milk,  custards, 
or  salad  dressing  are  to  be  boiled  are  first  wiped  out  with  a 
cloth  greased  with  lard  they  will  neither  stick  nor  scorch. 


— 94 — 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS 


TO  EXTRACT  A  SPLINTER— Take  a  wide-mouthed  bottle 
and  almost  fill  with  hot  water,  then  place  the  part  with  the 
splinter  over  the  mouth  of  bottle  and  press  lightly;  the 
suction  will  draw  the  flesh  from  the  splinter  and  the 
splinter  may  be  easily  removed.  This  also  heals  the  sore- 
ness of  the  wound. 

TO  REMOVE  INK  SPOTS  FROM  WHITE  GOODS— Dip  in 
kerosene  oil  and  rub  with  ordinary  laundry  soap,  at  the 
end  of  half  an  hour  wash  with  soap  and  water. 

HOME-MADE  FLOOR  FINISH— To  keep  my  hard  wood 
and  varnished  floors  in  good  condition,  I  take  equal  parts 
of  linseed  oil  and  coal  oil,  heat  and  rub  floors.  They  will 
look  like  new.  This  makes  a  finish  for  any  floor  if 
brushed  on  while  boiling  hot. 

TO  CLEAN  RUGS— Rugs  of  a  light  color  may  be  made  to 
look  almost  like  new  in  the  following  way:  Beat  thor- 
oughly and,  after  the  dust  has  settled,  spread  over  the 
rug,  a  paste  of  corn  meal  and  gasoline.  Rub  in  with  a 
clean  stiff  scrubbing  brush.  Let  remain  until  thorough- 
ly dry,  then  sweep  meal  out  with  stiff  whisk  broom,  and 
let  remain  in  open  air  until  all  odor  of  gasoline  escapes. 

FOR  PALMS  AND  FERN&— A  tablespoon  of  castor  oil 
poured  on  the  ground  around  the  roots  of  palms  and  ferns 
once  a  month  will  give  them  a  rapid  growth  and  make 
them  look  fresh  and  green. 

FOR  THE  MACHINE— To  keep  oil  from  dripping  on  sewing 
after  oiling,  fasten  a  bit  of  absorbent  cotton  to  the  needle 
or  just  above  the  needle. 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  KID  GLOVES— Dip  cloth  in  gasoline 
and  then  in  prepared  chalk,  and  rub  the  soiled  places  on 
the  gloves.  Repeat  until  they  are  thoroughly  clean  and 
you  will  never  again  use  the  old  method  of  putting  them 
on  the  hands  and  dipping  them  in  the  fluid. 

—95— 


KITCHEN  HINTS 


TO  MAKE  STEAK  TENDER— To  transform  a  tough  piece 
of  beefsteak  into  a  nutritious  and  tender  one,  by  a  method 
employed  in  many  of  the  first-lass  hotels  and  restau- 
rants, proceed  as  follows :  Put  three  tablespoons  of  vine- 
gar into  a  deep  platter ;  add  one  of  olive  oil ;  lay  steak  in 
it  for  several  hours  before  it  is  to  be  used,  turning  every 
hour.  If  for  breakfast,  it  should  be  fixed  the  night  be- 
fore, steak  should  be  cooked  without  wiping  it  and  season- 
ing with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  garnished  with  sliced 
lemon. 

FOR  JUICY  PIE  FILLING— A  straw,  such  as  is  used  at 
soda  fountains,  cut  in  two  and  stood  upright  in  the  pie 
when  baking  will  allow  the  steam  to  escape  and  prevent 
the  juice  from  running  over  the  edge. 

BREAKING  EGGS — Dip  saucer  into  cold  water,  before 
breaking  eggs  into  it,  to  pour  into  water  to  poach  and  the 
yolk  will  not  break  so  easily. 

TO  TENDER  MEAT— Tough  meat  may  be  made  tender  by 
placing  in  vinegar  water  for  a  few  minutes. 

TO  REMOVE  ODOR— Biscuit  dough,  tied  in  a  clean  cloth, 
dropped  in  boiling  cabbage,  will  do  away  with  all  unpleas- 
ant odor. 

TO  MAKE  PIES  BROWN— Take  a  cloth  and  wipe  the  top 
off  with  a  little  sweet  milk. 

TO  IMPROVE  ICING — Use  one-third  teaspoon  of  cream  of 
tartar. 

—96— 


TO  KEEP  CAKE  FROM  FALLING — If  you  will  slam  a  pan 
up  and  down  several  times,  after  pouring  your  cake  dough 
into  it,  the  cake  wont  fall  when  you  turn  it  in  the 
stove. 

TO  KEEP  OUT  RED  ANTS— Place  a  small  quantity  of 
green  sage  in  the  pantry  shelves. 

REMEMBER — Slamming  the  door  of  the  oven  makes  the 
cake  fall. 

TO  REMOVE  INK  STAINS— Rub  the  stain  with  ripe  to- 
matoes. 

TO  KEEP  LEMON — Cover  with  cold  water,  changing  every 
week. 

TO  KEEP  FRUIT  OR  OTHER  CAKE— A  ripe  apple  placed 
in  the  cake  box  will  keep  it  moist  and  prevent  drying  out, 
and  retain  its  freshness. 

FOR  BURNT  FRUITS  OR  VEGETABLES— When  fruit  or 
vegetables  burn,  set  vessel  in  pan  of  cold  water  and  re- 
move cover ;  after  a  few  minutes  empty  contents  into  an- 
other vessel  taking  care  not  to  disturb  burnt  part.  No 
burnt  taste  will  remain. 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS 

AND  MEASURES 

One  pint  of  liquid — One  Pound. 
Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar — One  Pound. 
Two  and  a  half  cups  powdered  sugar — One  Pound. 
Four  cups  flour — One  Quart  or  One  Pound. 
Two  heaping  cups  butter — One  Pound. 
Four  tablespoonsful — One  Wine  Glass. 
Four  gills — One  pint. 
Two  tablespoonsful  Flour — One  ounce. 
One  tablespoon  butter — One  Ounce.     Butter  size  of  an 
egg — Two  Ounces. 

—97— 


ENTERTAINMENTS 


A  NATION  CONTEST 

1. — What  Nation  has  brought    about    the    most    terrible 

wars  ?     Indig — nation. 
2. — What  nation  creates  fear  and  terror  ?  Conster — nation. 
8. — What  nation  exercises  the  greatest  authority?  Domi — 

nation. 
4. — What  nation  is  very  crafty  and  sly?     Machi — nation. 
5. — What  nation  is  given  over  to  destruction?     Rui — na- 
tion. 
6. — What  nation  has  produced  the  most  kings  ?    Coro — na- 
tion. 
7. — What  nation  did  the  old  prophets  come  from  ?     Divi — 

nation. 
8. — What    nation    presents    the    best    men    for    office? 

Nomi — nation. 
9. — What  nation  prepares    most      men    for  the  ministry  ? 
Ordi — nation. 
10. — What  nation  is  the  slowest  nation?  Procrasti — nation. 
11. — What  nation  is  famous  for  its  lighting  system?    Illum- 

i — nation. 
12. — What  nation  is  most  deluded  ?    Halluci — nation. 
13. — What  nation  sees  things  in  a  rosy  light?     Imagi — na- 
tion. 
14. — What  nation     is    immune    from    smallpox?     Vacci — 

nation. 
15. — What  nation  produces  the  most     charming     people? 

Fasci — nation. 
16. — What  nation  is  especially     given     to    voice     culture? 
Into — nation. 

—98— 


17. — What  nation  is  the  most  murderous?  Assassi — na- 
tion. 

18. — What  nation  is  most  generous?     Do — nation. 

19. — What  nation  is  noted  for  unbridled  mirth?  Cachin — 
nation. 

20. — What  nation  is  noted  for  deep  thinking?  Rumi — na- 
tion. 

21. — WThat  nation  is  growing  more  youthful?  Rejuve — 
nation. 

22. — What  nation  is  the  most  critical     Discrimi — nation 

23. — What  nation  is  noted  for  its  dullness?     Stag — nation. 

24. — What  nation  has  the  best  actors?     Imperso — nation. 

25. — What  nation  is  most  patient  and  submissive?  Resig — 
nation. 


MECHANICAL  TOY  PARTY 

The  invitation  said :  "Bring  your  favorite  mechanical 
toy  to  my  house  on  Saturday  evening."  This  was  planned 
and  carried  out  by  a  lad  of  ten.  Well,  it  was  wonderful,  the 
motley  array  of  toys  assembled  with  their  owners  on  a  broad 
porch  of  a  surburban  home  one  day  last  week.  There  were 
spiders,  beetles,  bugs  of  all  kinds,  kicking  mules,  a  train 
of  cars,  boats  that  sped  across  the  ocean,  forts  that  blew  up 
at  the  right  minute,  soldiers  that  went  through  the  man- 
ual of  arms  and  of  course  automobiles  that  went  like  the  real 
ones,  and  also  stopped,  and  refused  to  go  like  real  ones.  One 
young  hopeful  had  borrowed  his  sister's  Paris  dolls  that 
lisped  her  name  and  said  "Mama"  and  "Papa"  like  any  well 
bred  child.  After  the  merits  of  toys  had  been  shown  and 
discussed  the  hostess  appeared  with  a  luncheon  that  de- 
lighted the  boys.  There  were  hard  boiled  eggs,  a  fruit  sal- 
ad, sandwiches,  crackers  and  a  pink  bowl  of  lemonade  to 
which  they  were  given  free  access.  A  party  like  this  is  ab- 
solutely no  trouble  as  far  as  entertaining  is  concerned,  for 
each  guest  supplies  his  own  as  well  as  for  the  others  too. 

—99— 


TO  DISTRIBUTE  CHRISTMAS  GIFTS 

A  novel  way  to  distribute  Christmas  gifts  is  to  make 
a  huge  turkey  red  stocking,  cotton  or  white  drilling.  Run 
a  wire  in  the  top  of  the  hem  to  keep  it  open,  and  suspend 
from  a  hook  in  the  ceiling  by  a  large  red  ribbon.  Decorate 
a  ladder  with  ribbon  and  holly  or  Christmas  green  and  stand 
by  the  stocking.  Hang  it  up  a  few  days  before  Christmas 
and  drop  packages  in.  Light  packages  or  letters  may  be 
pinned  on  the  outside.  At  breakfast  table  on  Christmas 
morning  draw  lots  for  the  honor  of  unloading  the  stocking. 


INDIAN   MEAL   FOR  THANKSGIVING   NIGHT 

If  anyone  desires  a  novelty  to  which  to  ask  a  family  of 
intimate  friends,  try  this  on  Thanksgiving.  Issue  your  in- 
vitation on  Indian  paper  or  birch  wood  paper,  asking  the 
guests  to  come  to  the  Indian  Meal.  Serve  the  following 
menu  and  have  a  wigwam  for  the  table  centerpiece,  with 
birch  bark  canoes  to  hold  salted  peanuts  or  popcorn. 

Corn  Mush  or  Hasty  Pudding  With  Milk 

Succotash  Bean  Soup 

Brown  Bread  or  Indian  Meal      Corn  Bread  (Johnny  Cake) 

Indian  Pudding 

If  the  guests  will  come  in  Indian  costume  so  much  the 
better.  After  supper  have  a  bead  stringing  contest.  Use 
the  bright  colored  beads  that  come  for  kindergarten  use. 


THE  GLAD  THANKSGIVING  TIME 

In  preparing  for  Thanksgiving  one  naturally  thinks 
first  of  the  dinner,  but  after  that  happy  repast  is  over  and 
conversation  lags  there  must  be  something  to  do,  so  I  am 
going  to  tell  you  about  a  pumpkin  party  that  would  be  nice 
for  the  evening  if  you  want  to  ask  some  children  to  help 
celebrate.  You  may  call  it  a  "pumpkin  party,"  for  somehow 

—100— 


we  always  associate  this  gorgeous  yellow  vegetable  with 
Thanksgiving  time.     So  we'll  have — 

"Pumpkins  large  and  pumpkins  small, 
Pumpkins  short  and  pumpkins  tall, 
Pumpkins  yellow  and  pumpkins  green, 
Pumpkins  dull  and  those  with  sheen." 
Use  one  cut  in  half,  lengthwise  for  the  centerpiece  (just 
half.)  Fill  it  with  apples,  bananas,  red  grapes  and  white 
grapes,  purple  ones,  too,  if  you  can  get  them.  Around  the 
top  stick  Christmas  tree  candle  holders  and  fill  with  small 
white  candles.  When  lit  the  effect  is  lovely,  and  as  pretty 
a  centerpiece  as  you  can  imagine.  Yellow  crepe  paper  may 
be  fashioned  into  adorable  pumpkins  for  holding  salted  nuts, 
and  the  light  may  be  shaded  with  paper  pumpkin  bloss- 
oms. Have  a  huge  paper  pumpkin  for  a  "Jack  Horner"  pie, 
with  yellow  ribbons,  one  for  each  child.  For  favors  you  may 
use  popcorn  put  up  like  ears  of  corn  in  green  oiled  paper  with 
green  paper  corn  leaves.  For  this  informal  occasion  I  would 
suggest  using  the  pretty  "Thanksgiving"  paper  napkins, 
and  if  you  do  not  mind  extra  trouble  each  child  may  have  a 
yellow  crepe  paper  pumpkin  cap  to  wear.  Serve  very  simple 
"eats"  consisting  of  cold  turkey  sandwiches,  cocoa,  popcorn, 
molasses  candy  and  wee  pumpkin  tarts  with  a  spoonful  of 
ice  cream  on  top. 


A  HOLIDAY  PARTY 

Here  is  how  a  holiday  party  was  given  once  upon  a  time 
not  so  very  long  ago.  It  was  a  white  affair,  with  quantities 
of  silver  decorations,  which  were  lovely.  The  invitations 
were  on  heavy  white  paper  ornamented  with  wreaths  in  sil- 
ver tinsel  and  holly  wreaths  tied  with  red  ribbon  and  silver 
guaze.  The  combination  was  lovely.  The  lamps  were  chad- 
ed  with  white  and  silver  and  the  candle  shades  for  the  table 
were  of  white  and  silver. 

The  first  game  was  a  pretty  one;  a  large  wreath  of 
frosted  holly  leaves  was  suspended  by  silver  cords;  in  the 
center  was  a  cluster  of  silvered  sleigh  bells.  Each  guest  was 

—101—     . 


handed  three  white  rubber  balls  and  allowed  three  throws 
at  the  bells.     If  any  throw  made  the  bells  jingle  a  prize  of  a 
silver  paper  box  of  silver  wrapped  bon-bons  wras  awarded. 
Guests  Blindfolded 

Then  a  silver-leaved  wreath  was  laid  flat  upon  the  table 
containing  a  number  of  white  candies.  The  guests  were 
blindfolded  and  the  one  who  succeeded  in  blowing  out  the 
largest  number  of  candles  at  one  blow  was  given  a  pretty 
box  tied  with  silver  cord  which  said  "For  a  Blower,"  and 
was  found  to  contain  a  handkerchief.  In  this  game  the 
prizes  were  the  same  for  the  boy  and  the  girl. 

The  dining  room  table  was  a  thing  of  beauty;  it  was 
first  covered  with  cotton,  sprinkled  with  quantities  of  dia- 
mond dust,  the  edge  of  the  table  outlined  with  silver  leaves, 
and  the  same  leaves  surrounded  the  plates.  A  small  gift 
tree  was  in  the  center,  trimmed  entirely  in  white  and  silver, 
with  red  electric  lights.  Just  imagine  how  pretty  it  all 
looked.  The  place  cards  were  frosted  silver  and  white  bells 
and  were  hung  from  the  tumblers  by  silver-paper  birds.  A 
large  white  cake  with  red  candles  was  cut  with  ceremony 
and  favors  of  silver  were  found  inside  for  the  guests. 


AN  ANNOUNCEMENT  PARTY 

This  was  given  in  the  evening,  and  both  men  and  wom- 
en were  asked.  There  were  about  20  guests,  all  good  friends, 
so  the  affair  was  not  at  all  stiff.  The  hostess  passed  cards 
tied  with  true-lover's  knots  of  blue  with  little  blueprints 
(snapshots)  of  the  happy  pair  at  the  top.  Below  the  word 
"Matrimony"  was  printed  in  blue  and  gold  letters.  The 
game  was  to  see  how  many  words  (proper  names  barred) 
could  be  made  in  half-hour. 

Every  one  was  surprised  at  the  announcement,  which 
was  told  without  any  other  explanation,  and  the  couple  were 
overwhelmed  with  congratulations. 

At  the  conclusion  of  the  word  contest  a  basket  was 
passed  containing  tiny  bells,  wee  slippers,  two  rings,  two 
hearts,  envelopes  containing  a  love     message,     etc.     Thus 

—102— 


partners  were  found  by  matching  these  love  tokens.  Then 
to  the  music  of  Lohengrin's  wedding  march,  they  went  to 
the  dining  room,  where  this  dainty  repast  was  served: 
Creamed  chicken  in  heart-shaped  patties,  hot  biscuits,  also 
heart-shaped;  ambrosia,  and  pink-iced  heart  cakes; 
"Lover's  delight"  nectar  was  served  in  tall  glasses.  This 
was  merely  grape  juice  with  plenty  of  cracked  ice. 


A  HAPPINESS  LUNCHEON 

For  a  recent  bride  a  Bluebird  Luncheon  was  given  by 
her  maid  of  honor  and  attended  by  her  most  intimate  girl 
friends. 

The  usual  white  table  linen  was  dispensed  with  and  one 
of  the  blue  and  white  Japanese  cloths  used.  The  design 
was  one  of  bluebirds  skimming  across  the  white  ground. 
The  napkins  matched  the  cloth,  and  blue  white  dishes  were 
used.  The  centerpiece  was  a  cut  glass  bowl  filled  with  bride 
roses  and  bachelor-buttons.  From  the  chandeiier  overhead 
were  suspended  bluebirds  by  invisible  threads,  so  that  they 
fluttered  gracefully  over  the  bowl  of  flowers.  These  the 
hostess  made  by  drawing  the  birds  on  cardboard,  painting 
them  in  the  proper  tints,  and  cutting  them  out.  The  same 
birds  formed  the  place  cards  and  were  poised  on  the  edge 
of  the  water  glasses,  bearing  in  their  bills  the  names 
of  the  guests. 

There  was  no  attempt,  of  course,  to  carry  out  the  decor- 
ative idea  in  the  menu ;  but  with  the  coffee  each  guest  gave 
a  "happiness  toast"  to  the  bride-to-be.  These  had  been  pre- 
pared beforehand  at  the  request  of  the  hostess,  who  had 
sent  to  each  girl  a  bluebird  decorated  card  on  which  her 
toast  was  to  be  written  and  brought  to  the  luncheon.  Many 
of  the  toasts  were  original,  but  some  were  quotations  from 
the  play  "The  Bluebird." 

In  the  afternoon,  games  were  played  and  the  prizes 
were  bits  of  jewelry  in  the  popular  bluebird  design,  the 
guest  favor  being  a  quaint  silver  necklace  with  pendant  of 
an  enameled  bluebird,  from  all  the  girls. 

—103— 


; 


APPENDIX 


BOUILLON — Take  four  pounds  of  lean  beef  and  cut  in 
small  pieces  and  boil  in  four  quarts  of  water,  let  cook 
slowly  for  four  or  five  hours  until  reduced  to  two  quarts. 
Remove  from  fire  and  let  cool  with  meat  in  the  liquor. 
Then  squeeze  all  moisture  from  meat  and  let  stand  all 
night.  Next  morning  skim  off  all  grease  and  place  upon 
the  fire.  Whip  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
stir  in  the  boiling  liquid,  so  as  to  collect  all  impurities. 
After  boiling  a  few  minutes  remove  skim  and  strain. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  serve  hot  with  a  slice  or 
little  block  of  lemon. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES— One  solid  cup  of  meat  chopped 
fine,  season  with  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  half  tea- 
spoon celery  salt,  one  salt  spoon  of  pepper  and  a  speck 
of  cayenne,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  one  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  Mix  with  a 
thick  sauce  made  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two 
of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk.  Spread  on  plate  and  let  cool, 
shape  and  roll  in  cracker  meal  and  egg  and  fry.  This 
makes  about  twelve.  It  is  better  to  make  one  day  and 
fry  the  next. 

BAKED  BASS  OR  TROUT— Take  one  nice  trout  or  bass, 
weighing  about  four  pounds,  dress  and  place  on  ice  for  a 
short  time,  remove  from  ice  and  place  in  long  pan,  rub 
with  salt  and  a  small  quantity  of  black  pepper,,  pour  just 
enough  water  over  the  fish  to  keep  it  from  burning,  and 
add  about  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  Crisco,  set  in  stove 
and  let  cook  for  about  30  minutes,  have  ready  a  dressing 
made  from  two  cups  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoon  but- 
ter, small  onion  chopped  fine,  just  enough  to  slightly 
taste,  two  pieces  of  celery,  also  chopped  fine  or  celery 

—104— 


seed  may  be  used,  black  pepper,  and  salt  to  season,  one 
dozen  small  fresh  oysters  and  mix  with  the  water  from 
where  the  fish  is  cooked,  fill  fish  with  this  dressing  and 
also  place  around  fish  in  the  pan,  return  to  stove  add 
more  hot  water  if  needed,  and  bake  until  done,  but  not 
fall  to  pieces.  Serve  on  platter  that  has  been  heated, 
garnish  with  sliced  lemon.  The  liquor  from  this  makes 
all  sauce  necessary  for  gravy,  as  the  dressing  thickens  it 
to  a  creamy  gravy. 

Be  sure  in  dressing  fish  to  bake  to  leave  the  head  on 
but  remove  eyes  and  gills.  This  is  an  attractive  dish 
and  also  one  very  much  relished. 

FRIED  LAKE  TROUT— SOUTHERN  STYLE— Take  fresh 
game  fish,  small  trout  are  best,  dress  and  place  on  ice 
till  ready  to  cook.  Have  a  deep  frying  pan  or  pot,  fill 
with  lard  or  frying  fat  to  about  one  half  its  depth,  let 
come  to  a  lively  boil,  salt  fish  and  dip  in  meal  and  drop 
into  the  boiling  fat,  keep  hot  and  when  brown  on  one 
side  turn  and  repeat  this  until  the  fish  is  done  but  do 
not  allow  to  cook  till  hard.  Serve  while  hot  with  sliced 
lemon.  Large  trout  have  to  be  sliced  in  halves  before 
cooking  but  the  small  ones  are  fine  cooked  whole. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS— Take  amount  of  oysters,  put  a 
layer  in  pan,  then  a  layer  of  rolled  crackers,  butter  and 
milk,  pepper  and  salt  until  pan  is  full  then  run  in  stove 
and  brown,  cook  about  half  hour. 

IRISH  POTATO  AU  GRATIN  WITH  PIMENTOES— Boil 
potatoes  in  dice  form  until  tender,  take  off  stove  and  ar- 
range in  pan  with  layer  of  potatoes  then  a  layer  of  grat- 
ed cheese  with  little  dabs  of  pimento  about  over  the 
cheese,  then  another  layer  of  potatoes,  cheese,  etc.,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper  as  you  go  on  then  make  a  cream 
dressing  and  put  over  the  top  with  cheese  sprinkled  over 
that  and  dabs  of  pimento,  put  in  stove  and  brown. 

CREAM  DRESSING— One  cup  sweet  milk,  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  sifted  flour,  pinch  of  salt  and  black  pepper,  one 

—105— 


spoonful  butter,  cook  until  thick,  put  over  the  potatoes 
and  brown.     Make  a  larger  quantity  if  needed. 

CORN  RELISH— Chop  with  a  knife  one  half  large  cabbage, 
two  bunches  celery.  Run  through  meat  chopper,  3  large 
onions,  4  1-2  red  bell  peppers,  4  1-2  green  bell  peppers,l 
green  hot  pepper,  2  red  hot  peppers.  Take  one-half  box 
mustard,  1  pound  sugar,  1-3  cup  salt,  1  qt.  of  white  vine- 
gar, 1  tablespoon  tumeric;  cook  until  light  brown  color 
then  add  ten  ears  of  tender  corn,  cut  and  scraped,  and 
cook  a  little  longer,  this  will  make  nine  quarts.  If  more 
is  wanted  double  recipe. 

SWEET     POTATOES     WITH     MARSHMALLOWS— Boil 

whole  potatoes  until  done,  then  peel  and  mash,  add  sweet 
milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  sugar 
enough  to  sweeten  to  taste,  a  little  nutmeg  or  cinnamon. 
In  using  the  milk  use  just  enough  to  make  the  potatoes 
a  smooth  paste.  Add  one  or  two  whole  eggs  well  beaten 
put  in  pan  and  bake  until  a  nice  even  brown.  Just  be- 
fore serving  cover  with  marshmallows  set  in  oven  and 
brown  slightly.  Be  careful  not  to  get  the  potatoes  too 
soft  or  they  will  not  be  so  good. 

SCALLOPED  IRISH  POTATOES— Peel  potatoes  and  slice 
round  thin  slices,  put  layer  in  a  pan,  then  a  layer  of  milk 
and  little  lumps  of  butter  and  sprinkle  flour  between  each 
layer  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  put  tiny  little  onion 
between  each  layer,  fix  several  layers  and  then  run  in 
stove  until  cooked  and  brown. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE— Two  and  one-half  cups  sweet  milk, 
two  pinches  of  salt,  one-half  cup  of  cocoa  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  put  right  in  milk  and  beat  all 
up  together,  about  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  or  sweet- 
en to  taste,  one  spoon  butter,  three  heaping  tablespoons 
of  sifted  flour,  set  on  stove  and  stir  constantly  until 
thick.  Bake  crusts  and  let  all  cool  and  about  half  an 
hour  before  meals,  put  filling  into  crusts  and  make  me- 
ringue of  whites  by  beating  stiff  and  adding  one  heap- 

—106— 


ing  tablespoon  of  sugar  to  each  egg.     Put  over  pies  and 
brown.    This  makes  two  pies.    Flavor  with  vanilla. 

DELICIOUS  MINCE  PIE— Take  one  small  box  of  mince 
meat,  put  in  boiler  and  add  enough  water  to  dissolve  and 
make  mince  meat  soft,  add  three  tablespoons  of  sugar 
and  cook  until  the  right  thickness  for  pies.  Line  pie 
plate  with  crust  and  fill  in  with  the  mince  meat,  cover 
top  with  layer  of  crust  and  prick  with  fork,  bake  to  a 
nice  smooth  brown — serve  smoking  hot  with  whipped 
cream  and  black  coffee. 

BANANA  SHORT  CAKE— Make  a  rich  pie  crust.  Roll 
very  thin  and  cook  in  bottom  of  biscuit  pan,  prick  with 
fork,  cook  slowly  till  crisp.  Bake  three  or  four  layers, 
when  ready  to  serve  slice  bananas  very  thin  and  put  a 
layer  between  crusts  and  on  top,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar 
on  each  layer.     Serve  with  caramel  sauce. 

CARAMEL  SAUCE— Take  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  dry  flour  mixed  in  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 
tablespoon  of  butter,  two  cups  water.  Then  take  the 
other  cup  of  sugar  and  put  in  a  skillet  and  let  melt  slow- 
ly, stir  continually  until  melted  and  browned.  Put  first 
part  in  stew  pan  to  itself  and  let  come  to  boil,  then  add 
the  brown  part  and  stir  until  smooth.  Take  off,  strain 
and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

ORANGE  CAKE— Four  tablespoons  butter,  one  cup  sugar 
two-thirds  cup  milk,  one  egg,  two  cups  flour,  four  tea- 
spoons Royal  Baking  Powder,  one-eighth  teaspoon  salt, 
one  teaspoon  orange  extract,  grated  rind  of  one  orange. 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar  slowly,  beating  well,  add  milk 
a  little  at  a  time,  then  add  well  beaten  egg.  Sift  dry  in- 
gredients together  and  add  to  the  mixture,  add  flavoring 
and  grated  orange  rind  and  mix  well.  Bake  in  a  greased 
shallow  cake  tin  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes. When  cool  cut  with  fancy  cutter  and  cover  with 
orange  icing.  Can  be  baked  in  individual  cake  tins  if 
desired. 


-107- 


ORANGE  ICING — Two  cupfuls  confectioners  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  boiling  water,  two  teaspoons  lemon  juice, 
grated  rind  of  one  orange,  and  a  little  orange  pulp  if  de- 
sired. Add  water  slowly  to  the  sugar  to  make  a  smooth 
paste,  add  flavoring  and  grated  rind  of  one  orange  and 
spread  on  the  cake. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES — Two  cups  of  raw  oatmeal,  two  cups 
flour,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  of  lard  or  butter,  two  eggs, 
one  cup  chopped  nuts,  one  scant  teaspoon  soda  in  four 
tablespoons  of  butter  milk.  One  heaping  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon,  pinch  of  salt,  vanilla  to  taste.  Make  size  of 
walnut  and  drop  on  buttered  pans  one  inch  apart.  Bake 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

DOUGHNUTS— Four  cups  of  sifted  flour,  three  level  tea- 
spoons of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt, 
one  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs  beaten  together,  two  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  milk ;  sift  flour,  then 
measure;  add  baking  powder  and  salt  and  sift  three 
times;  rub  sugar  and  butter  together;  add  well  beaten 
eggs,  then  flour  and  milk  alternately ;  turn  out  on  a  well 
floured  board  and  roll  out  one-half  inch  thick ;  cut  with 
doughnut  cutter  and  fry  in  boiling  fat;  flavor  with  va- 
nilla or  cinnamon. 

TARTAR  SAUCE — To  one  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing  add 
one  small  finely  chopped  onion,  one  tablespoon  each 
of  finely  chopped  capers,  sweet  gherkins  and  olives,  and 
one-half  tablespoon  each  finely  chopped  parsley  and 
fresh  tarragon.  Mix  well  and  keep  cool  until  ready  to 
serve. 

VIENNAISE  SAUCE — Reduce  one  small  can  of  tomatoes 
by  slow  cooking  to  a  thick  pulp.  When  strained  there 
should  be  two  tablespoonsful.  To  3-4  of  cup  of  mayo- 
nnaise dressing  add  3-4  tablespoon  of  finely  chopped  cap- 
ers, one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  two  teaspoons 
each  finely  chopped  gherkins  and  olives,  one  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  onion.  Add  tomato  pulp,  mix  well  and 
keep  in  a  cool  place. 

—108— 


THOUSAND  ISLE  DRESSING— One  half  pint  of  mayo- 
nnaise, two  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  a  small  piece  of 
onion  chopped  fine,  and  two  medium  sized  beets  chopped 
fine  after  being  cooked.  One  light  teaspoon  of  sugar, 
one  1-2  cup  of  tomato  catsup,  mix  thoroughly  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE— Take  cranberries;  wash  and  pick 
them  put  amount  of  cranberries  in  vessel  on  stove  with  a 
little  water  over  them,  enough  to  cover,  let  boil  until  ten- 
der, then  put  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  to  taste,  then  let 
boil  until  the  mixture  begins  to  jelly  in  a  saucer  when 
tried;  then  take  up  and  rub  through  a  sieve  into  the  bowl 
they  will  be  served  in.  Let  stand  all  night  and  it  will  be 
hard. 

LEMON  SAUCE — One  cup  sugar,  one  egg  well  beaten  into 
sugar,  one  cup  water,  juice  and  rind  one  lemon,  lump  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  place  on  stove  to  cook  after  stirring 
in  two  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  or  flour,  let  boil  and 
serve  as  sauce  over  plain  cake.  This  is  delicious  if  made 
right. 

CHICKEN  ASPIC— Boil  one  large  hen  as  for  salad  and  cut 
into  small  pieces  with  a  pair  of  scissors.  Place  a  layer 
of  chicken  in  a  flat  pan  and  arrange  on  this  a  layer  of 
hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  circles  then  a  layer  of  pecans  and 
celery  cut  fine,  until  all  chicken  in  used.  Place  liquor 
in  which  chicken  was  boiled  back  on  stove  and  cook  down 
to  one  quart.  Add  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  gelatine, 
juice  of  two  lemons,  salt,  and  black  and  cayenne  pepper, 
pour  over  contents  of  pan  when  it  is  just  beginning  to 
congeal,  cut  in  slices  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

TOMATO  ASPIC— Two  tablespoons  gelatine,  one  half  cup 
cold  water,  three  and  half  cups  tomato  juice,  one  egg, 
hard  boiled,  cayenne  pepper  to  taste,  2  cloves,  one  table- 
spoon of  good  vinegar,  salt  to  taste,  three  medium  sized 
whole  fresh  tomatoes. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  till  dissolved.     Cook  to- 

—109— 


mato  juice,  add  seasoning  except  vinegar  and  boil  ten 
minutes.  Add  vinegar  and  soaked  gelatine  and  strain. 
Cut  egg  and  tomatoes  in  rings  and  dip  in  gelatine  and 
arrange  in  sides  and  bottom  of  bowl  or  mold.  Add  gela- 
tine slowly,  allowing  it  to  set  gradually,  so  egg  and  to- 
mato will  not  fall  out  of  place.  Place  on  ice  till  ready  to 
serve.  Cut  in  slices,  place  on  lettuce  leaf  and  serve  with 
stiff  mayonnaise.  This  makes  a  pretty  salad  to  serve  at 
card  parties. 

CARROT  SALAD — Take  one  bunch  of  carrots  and  peel  and 
grate.  Peel  and  cut  into  dice  shape  six  apples  and  a 
small  bunch  of  celery,  mix  in  some  pecan  nuts;  mix  the 
whole  together  with  mayonnaise,  serve  on  lettuce  leaf 
with  mayonnaise  on  top.     This  is  fine. 

IRISH  POTATO  SALAD— Cut  potatoes  in  dice,  put 
in  vessel  and  salt  to  taste,  cook  slowly  till  just  done. 
When  cold  cut  up  celery  in  it  and  a  tiny  bit  of  onion.  Mix 
with  mayonnaise,  serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 

RAINBOW  SALAD — Two  slices  of  pineapple,  a  ring  of 
green  and  a  ring  of  red  bell  pepper  or  pimento,  a  few 
chopped  nuts,  two  cheese  balls,  top  with  stiff  whipped 
cream  or  mayonnaise,  and  dot  with  cherries,  one  green 
and  one  red,  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  This  is  a  pret- 
ty salad  at  any  time. 

FRUIT  WINE — One  pound  raisins,  1  pound  prunes,  1 
pound  evaporated  peaches,  3  pounds  sugar,  1  gallon 
water,  one  Fleischman's  Yeast  Cake.  Let  stand  one  month 
and  strain  up. 

BAKED  GRITS— Take  a  dish  of  cold  grits,  mix  up  with 
sweet  milk  and  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  one  of 
butter,  work  until  all  lumps  are  out  and  it  is  a  nice 
smooth  batter  thicker  than  for  batter  cakes,  then  brown 
in  a  pan  and  grate  cheese  over  the  top.  This  has  to  cook 
about  half  an  hour  before  putting  the  cheese  on. 

—110— 


ICES — Orange  sherbert  to  be  served  with  the  orange  cake. 
One  cup  orange  juice,  juice  of  one  lemon,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  five  cups  water.  Grate  rind  of  two  oranges  and 
rub  into  the  sugar.  Add  water  and  boil  three  minutes. 
Strain  through  a  cheese  cloth.  Dissolve  in  the  sugar 
and  water  one  package  of  lemon  or  unflavored  Jell-0  Ice 
Cream  Powder.  Add  juice  of  orange  and  lemon,  and 
one  large  can  of  grated  pineapple,  freeze  and  serve. 
Makes  about  three  quarts.  A  section  of  orange  on  top 
adds  to  the  beauty  of  this  ice. 

HEAVENLY  JAM — Six  pounds  of  blue  grapes,  five  pounds 
of  sugar,  four  oranges,  one  pound  raisins.  Take  the 
grapes  and  squeeze  the  pulp  out  and  put  into  separate 
pan  and  cook  pulp  until  all  seeds  come  out,  stirring  all 
of  the  time  to  keep  from  sticking.  Chop  hulls  of  grapes 
real  fine,  also  cut  up  the  raisins.  Grate  the  rind  of  the 
four  oranges.  Then  take  the  orange  pulp  out  of  the 
skin  with  a  knife  or  fruit  spoon  and  put  all  together  and 
cook  for  thirty  minutes.  This  will  make  eight  pints  and 
is  delicious. 

A  PRETTY  CHRISTMAS  DINNER 

Have  dining  room  all  decorated  in  red  and  green  holly. 
Arrange  table  with  a  pretty  center  of  red  and  green.  Take 
large  red  apples  polished  as  favors.  Cut  off  one  end  and 
scoop  out  the  inside.  Fill  each  apple  with  nuts  and  candy. 
Place  one  apple  on  one  side  of  plate  for  each  person,  in 
nest  of  holly.  Then  take  three  or  four  crackers  and  place 
together  and  tie  a  red  ribbon  around  to  hold  in  place  with 
a  little  bow  at  one  corner  and  a  sprig  of  holly  and  berries 
at  opposite  corner  making  a  box,  fill  this  box  with  chicken 
salad  and  place  box  on  a  little  plate  with  lettuce  leaf  at  op- 
posite corner;  apple  also  in  a  nest  of  holly.  Serve  turkey 
with  cranberry  sauce  and  dressing  filled  with  oysters.  Hot 
rice,  asparagus  loaf,  creamed  English  peas.  Hot  biscuits 
or  sliced  bread.  Sweet  peach  pickle.  Dessert,  orange  sponge 
served  with  fruit  cake  made  by  tried  and  tested  recipe  in 
this  book. 


-Ill- 


SUGGESTED  MENUS 


Sunday  Dinner 

Chicken  Consomme  with  Whipped  Cream,   (p.  3) 

Fride  Chicken,  Southern  Style,  Cream  Gravy  (p.  9). 

Rice.     Potatoes  au  gratin  with  Pimentoes  (p.  105). 

Asparagus  on  toast  (p.  26).     English  Peas  with  cream 

dressing  in  pastry  cups.  (p.  105) . 

Hot  Biscuits  (p.  21). 

Fruit  Salad,  (p.  61)  on  lettuce  leaf  with  whipped  cream. 

Orange  Pudding  (p.  32)  Orange  Cake  (p.  57) 

Coffee.  Whipped  Cream. 

Sunday  Supper 

Thinly  Sliced  Boiled  Ham.  Thousand  Isle  Dressing  (p.  109), 
Stuffed  Eggs  on  Lettuce  (p.  74) . 
Tomato  sandwiches  (p.  30) . 
Irish  Potato  Salad  (p.  110). 
Thinly  sliced  bread. 
Preserves. 
Coffee.  Tea 

Monday  Breakfast 

Grape  Fruit  or  Oranges 

Oatmeal. 

Toast    Bacon 

Eggs,  as  preferred 

Hot  Flannel  Cakes  (p.  20). 

Syrup 

Coffee.  Tea. 

—112— 


Monday  Dinner 

Veal  Loaf  (p.  74) .      Tomato  Sauce  (p.  58) 

Green  String  Beans  (p.  24) 

Squash,  Mexican  style  (p.  24) 

Creamed  Irish  Potatoes  baked  brown 

Candied  Yams,  Southern  Style.     Cornbread  Muffins  (p.  19). 

Apple  Roll  (p.  41)  with  hard  sauce,  (p.  58). 

Coffee  Tea. 

Monday  Supper 

Broiled  Steak  (p.  7)  French  fried  potatoes  (p.  26). 

Hot  Grits 

Scrambled  Eggs.     Hot  Muffins  (p.  19). 

Coffee. 

Tuesday  Breakfast 

Corn  Flakes  with  Bananas  and  Pure  Cream. 

Toast.     Broiled  Ham 

Eggs  cooked  as  preferred 

Fried  Apples. 

Hot  Flannel  Cakes  (p.  20).     Syrup 

Hot  Coffee.  Tea. 

Tuesday  Dinner 

Stuffed  Roast  with  Dressing  (p.  10). 
Cabbage,  Cream  Dressing,  Sliced  Eggs.    Spaghetti  with  To- 
matoes and  Onions  (p.  72) . 
Creamed  Irish  potatoes. 
Baked  sweet  potatoes. 
Sliced  tomatoes.  Mayonnaise  (p.  59). 

Banana  Short  Cake   (p.  107).     Caramel  Sauce   (p.  107). 

Tuesday  Supper 

Pork  Sausage  with  Fried  Sweet  Potatoes   (p.  26). 

Hit  Grits 

Cored  Baked  Apples  in  peel,  with  Whipped  Cream  (p.  38). 

Egg  Omelet  (p.  72).  Hot  Biscuits  (p.  19). 

—113— 


Wednesday  Dinner 

Baked  Chicken,  Dressing  (p.  9) .     Hot  Rice. 

Scalloped  Irish  potatoes  (p.  106). 

Sweet  potatoes  with  marshmallows  (p.  106) 

Pear  Salad.     Lettuce.     Mayonnaise  (p.  62) . 

Hot  Biscuits  (p.  19). 

Japanese  Cake  (p.  53)  Orange  Jello  (p.  37) . 

Coffee.  Tea. 

Wednesday  Supper. 

Oyster  Soup  (p.  3) 

Ham.  Eggs,  straight  up  and  turned,  mingled  on  dish  with 

ham.     Rice  or  Grits. 

Cheese  Souffle  (p.  70). 

Irish  Potato  Chips  (p.  25) . 

Hot  Biscuits  (p.  19). 

Coffee  Tea. 

Thursday  Breakfast 

Oranges.     Cream  of  Wheat  with  pure  cream. 

Toast.     Breakfast  Bacon 

Brains  and  Eggs. 

Waffles  (p.  19). 

Coffee.  Tea 

Thursday  Dinner 

Vegetable  soup  with  crackers  (p.  5). 
Pork  Roast  Southern  style  with  sweet  potatoes  peeled  and 
baked  around  it  (p.  11). 
English  Peas,  with  Eggs  a  la  English  (p.  75). 
Spaghetti  and  Cheese  (p.  72).     Spinach  with  Eggs  (p.  25). 
Corn  bread  muffins  (p.  19) . 
Banana  Salad  served  on  lettuce  leaves  with  Mayon- 
naise (p.  62). 
Lemon  Pie  (p.  43)  Coffee.  Tea. 

—114— 


Thursday  Supper. 

Steak  fried  French  style  (p.  7). 

Smothered  Eggs  on  Toast  (p.  73) . 

Baked  grits  with  grated  cheese  on  top  (p.  110). 

Stuffed  Irish  Potatoes  (p.  25). 

Hot  Biscuits  (p.  21),  or  Muffins  (p.  19). 

Coffee  Tea. 

Friday  Breakfast. 

Orange.     Oatmeal  or  any  cereal  with  cream. 

Toast.     Fried  green  tomatoes  (p.  27). 

Bacon  and  eggs. 

Hot  cakes  (p.  20),  with  syrup. 

Coffee,  Tea, 

Friday  Dinner. 

Red  Snapper,  Creole  style  (p.  15) .    Creamed  Irish  potatoes. 

Stuffed  Bell  Peppers  (p.  27). 

Carrot  Salad  (p,  110)a 

Corn  Muffins  (p.  19).    Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Chocolate  Pie  (p.  44).  Coffee.  Tea. 

Friday  Supper. 

Scalloped  Oysters  (p.  105).      Spanish  Omelet  (p.  77).  Grits. 

Cheese  Straws  (p.  72)  s 

French  Fried  Potatoes  (p.  26). 

Hot  Biscuits  (p.  21). 

Coffee.  Tea. 

Saturday  Breakfast 

Shredded  Biscuit,  toasted  with  Peaches  and  Cream. 

Breakfast  Bacon,    Toast  with  Eggs  on  top* 

Hot  Flannel  Cakes  (p.  20). 

Coffee.  Tea. 

—115— 


Saturday  Dinner 

Creole  Steak.     Creamed  Irish  Potatoes  (p.  28). 

Sweet  Potatoes  in  pan  (p.  26).     Stuffed  Egg  Plant  (p.  28). 

Spaghetti  and  Cheese  (p.  72). 

Tomatoes  and  Mayonnaise  (p.  59) . 

Chocolate  Pudding  with  Sauce  (p.  33). 

Saturday  Supper 

Boiled  Salmon  with  sauce  (p.  16).     Spoon  Bread  (p.  19). 

Goulash  (p.  14).    Irish  potato  chips  (p.  25). 

Quick  Rolls  (p.  21). 

Coffee  Tea. 

Second  Sunday  Dinner 

Almond  Bisque. 

Chicken  Pie  (p.  9).     Rice. 

Cauliflower  (p.  25). 

Sweet  Potato  Pone  (p.  26) .    Mushrooms  with  English  Peas. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad  (p.  63),  on  Lettuce  Leaf. 

Sliced  Light  Bread  or  hot  Biscuit. 

Marshmallow  Pudding  (p.  33).  Whipped  Cream  White  Loaf 

Cake  (p.  48). 

Second  Wednesday  Supper 

Oyster  Cocktail  (p.  16). 

Creole  Chicken  with  Sauce  (p.  13). 

Cheese  Balls  in  Rice  Nests  (p.  70).     Scrambled  Eggs. 

Hot  Biscuits  (p.  21). 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding  (p.  37).  Coffee.  Tea. 


TABLE  OP  CONTENTS 


Soups 3 

Meats   7 

Fish  15 

Bread   19 

Vegetables   _ 24 

Sandwiches    29 

Desserts   32 

Pies  41 

Cakes 47 

Sauces  _ 58 

Salads  61 

Miscellaneous  „ 70 

Ices 78 

Pickles 82 

Preserves,  Jellies  and  Canned  Fruits  _ 85 

The  Art  of  Drying  and  Canning 87 

Candies  91 

Light  Diet  for  the  Sick  94 

Household  Hints  95 

Kitchen  Hints  96 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures  97 

Entertainments  98 

Appendix    _ 104 

Suggested  Menus  112 


THE  YAZOO  CITY  HERALD  PRINT 

YAZOO  CITY,  MISS. 

192a 


