Glass 
Book.. 


2J 


fopyriglitN!* 

CQEouciiT  DEPosrr. 


THREE  •A\EALSAd>Ar  SERIES 


CORNAVEAL 

FOR 

BREAKFAST 
DINNER,  5UPPER 


BES5IE  R,  MURPm" 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


^'TtfG 


CORN   MEAL 


FOR 


BREAKFAST,  DINNER,  SUPPER 


Compiled  and  Edited  By 
BESSIE  R.  MURPHY 

Southern  Food  Expert  and  Lecturer 


RAND  McNALLY  AND  COMPANY 
CHICAGO  NEW  YORK 


Copyright  y  iq20,  by 
Rand  McNally  &  Company 


TX?o«!| 


APfi  23  1320 
©CI.A566755 


A-20 


Dedicated  to 

SOMEBODY    SOMEWHERE 

To  be  used  by 

EVERYBODY   EVERYWHERE 


Cookery  ....  means  the  econ- 
omy of  your  great- grandmothers,  and 
the  science  of  modern  chemists;  it 
means  much  tasting  and  no  wasting; 
it  means  English  thoroughness,  and 
French  art,  and  Arabian  hospitality; 
and  it  means,  in  fine,  that  you  are 
to  be  perfectly  and  always  ''ladies'' 
— loaf-givers. 

RUSKIN 


THE  INTRODUCTION 

This  little  series  of  books  is  a  collection  of  tested  and 
economical  recipes  for  everyday  foods  that  are  obtainable 
everywhere  and  suitable  for  any  of  the  three  meals  of  the 
day.  These  recipes  are  written  in  plain,  everyday  terms. 
They  are  not  all  original  —  the  authors  of  many  of  them 
are  unknown.  They  form  just  a  little  series  of  everyday 
books  for  everybody  from  everywhere. 

The  World  War  gave  every  homemaker  an  opportunity 
to  realize  the  difference  between  use  and  abuse  of  foods. 
For  years  we  have  wasted  much  of  the  bountiful  supply  of 
food  produced  by  our  country.  Let  us  then  not  go  back- 
ward, but  let  us  go  forward,  bending  every  energy  to  make 
lasting  the  benefit  in  health  and  economy  gained  from  a 
diet  that  not  only  eliminates  extravagance  and  waste  in 
buying  and  serving,  but  also  affords  greater  variety. 

The  recipes  in  this  series  call  for  flour,  sugar,  and  butter. 
To  conserve  these  three  foods  just  as  long  as  our  country 
and  the  peoples  of  Europe  need  them  is  the  loyal  and 
patriotic  duty  of  —  not  the  other  fellow  —  but  you. 

Measurements 
All  measurements  should  be  accurate  to  insure  success. 
A  standard  measuring  cup  is  equal  to  J/i  pint. 
All  measures  are  leveled. 
.  For  }4  spoon  divide  with  knife  lengthwise. 
For  )4  spoon  divide  with  knife  crosswise. 
For  }4  spoon  divide  with  knife  crosswise. 


VI  THE  INTRODUCTION 

Substitutes 
The  same  substitutes  are  not  obtainable  in  every  state, 
and  for  this  reason  the  following  tables  are  given.     You  may 
use  the  ones  to  be  obtained  in  your  community. 

FLOUR 

For  I  cup  of  wheat  flour,  substitute : 
i^  cups  barley 
}i  cup   buckwheat 
corn  flour 
"    meal  ^ 

"     starch  J 

I        "     peanut  flour 
^    "     potato  flour 
J/i    *'     rice  flour 
i}i  cups  rolled  oats 
^  cup  soy-bean  flour 
lyi  cups  sweet-potato  flour 

SUGAR 

For  I  cup  of  sugar,  use: 

i}i  cups  com  sirup 
1%    "     honey 
i}4    **     maple  sirup 
i^    "     molasses 

BUTTER 

In  place  of  one  cup  of  butter,  use: 
I  cup  oleomargarine 
^  cup  chicken  fat 
J/i  cup  clarified  drippings 
^  cup  solid  vegetable  fat,  such  as  Crisco 
%  cup  cottonseed  oil 
^  cup  peanut  oil 
^  cup  com  oil 


CORN  MEAL 

ORIGIN,  USE,  AND  FOOD  VALUE 

Origin.  We  are  indebted  to  the  Indians  for  many  of 
the  foods  we  are  enjoying  to-day,  but  the  greatest  gift 
they  bestowed  on  modern  civihzation  was  corn.  The 
desire  to  produce  this  food  was  the  incentive  which  led 
them  to  abandon  their  roaming  hfe  and  to  form  settlements. 
Fish,  game,  and  corn  were  their  staple  foods. 

We  know  the  important  part  corn  played  in  the  early 
history  of  America,  and  how  it  saved  many  of  the  pioneers 
from  starvation.  Corn  was  unknown  in  Europe  until 
after  America  was  discovered,  but,  once  it  was  introduced, 
its  use  spread  rapidly,  and  to-day  it  is  raised  in  every 
country  where  climatic  conditions  will  permit.  In  Africa 
corn  is  known  as  ''mealies"  and  in  Europe  as  ''maize." 

Food  value.  From  the  standpoint  of  economy  and  nour- 
ishment, few  foods  compare  with  corn  m^eal.  It  is  rich  in 
fats  and  carbohydrates,  but  is  lacking  in  protein.  Corn 
contains  twice  as  much  fat,  or  oil,  as  wheat,  three  times 
as  much  as  rye,  and  twice  as  much  as  barley.  As  compared 
to  wheat,  corn  meal  contains  a  little  more  fat  and  starch 
but  less  protein. 

How  to  buy  corn  meal.  There  are  two  common  varieties 
of  corn  meal  on  the  market,  white  and  yellow.  As  a  rule 
white  com  meal  is  the  milder  in  flavor,  but  in  composition 
and  nutritive  value  there  is  no  difference.  Very  finely 
ground  and  bolted  meal  does  not  make  good  bread.  Rather 
select  a  medium-ground  meal,  either  white  or  yellow. 


CORN   MEAL  FOR  BREAKFAST 

Elizabeth  Ann  Corn  Meal  Mush 
3  cups  boiling  water  >2  cup  com  meal 

I  teaspoon  salt  Yi  cup  sweet  milk 

Moisten  corn  meal  with  i  cup  cold  water,  and  stir  slowly 
into  the  boiling  salt  water.  Cook  very  slowly  30  minutes. 
Add  yi  cup  sweet  milk  and  boil  10  minutes  longer.  Serve 
hot  with  cream,  milk,  or  fruit. 

Fried  Corn-Meal  Mush 

Make  mush  as  directed  above  or  use  left-over  mush. 
Turn  it  into  wet  bread  pans  and  allow  it  to  cool.  When 
it  is  cold,  cut  it  into  slices  and  brown  in  hot  butter  or  lard. 

Corn-Meal  Yeast  Bread 
i>^  cups  milk  I  tablespoon  fat 

yi  cake  compressed  yeast  i  cup  corn  meal 

I  tablespoon  sugar  2  cups  wheat  flour 

i>^  teaspoons  salt 
Put  \yi  cups  milk,  the  corn  meal,  salt,  sugar,  and  fat 
into  a  double  boiler;  cook  20  minutes.  Cool  mixture.  Add 
flour  and  yeast  and  remainder  of  milk.  Knead  thoroughly, 
make  into  a  loaf,  and  allow  it  to  rise  until  it  nearly  fills  the 
pan.     Bake  in  oven  about  50  minutes. 

Old  Virginia  Batter  Bread 
I  pint  com  meal  i  teaspoon  salt 

I  quart  scalded  milk  3  eggs 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Stir  the  corn  meal  into  the  scalded  milk.  Stir  and 
cook  to  a  mush.    Allow  it  to  cool  a  little  and  add  salt,  a 


CORN  MEAL  3 

little  sugar  if  desired,  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs. 
Add  the  melted  butter  and  lastly  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour  mixture  into  well-greased  baking 
dish  and  bake  45  minutes. 

Southern  Spoon  Bread 
y2  cup  sifted  corn  meal  i  cup  boiling  water 

I  tablespoon  butter  ^  teaspoon  salt 

K  cup  sweet  milk  i  ^gg 

I  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  meal  and  stir  until  smooth. 
Let  it  cook  5  minutes.  Add  the  butter  and  salt,  stirring 
as  it  cooks.  Remove  from  fire.  Add  the  milk,  the  well- 
beaten  ^gg,  and  lastly  the  baking  powder.  Pour  batter 
into  a  well-buttered  shallow  baking  dish  and  bake  20 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  letting  bread  brown  before 
removing  it.     Serve  hot  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 

Delicate  Spoon  Bread 
yi  cup  com  meal  i  teaspoon  salt 

I  teaspoon  butter  2  eggs 

I  tablespoon  sugar  2  cups  milk 

Mix  the  corn  meal  and  milk  and  bring  slowly  to  the 
boiling  point.  Cook  about  5  minutes.  Add  the  butter, 
sugar,  salt,  and  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Then  fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  30  minutes.     Serve  in  the  baking  dish. 

Corn-Meal  Biscuit 

Recipe  I 
I  cup  com  meal  2  cups  peanut  cream 

2  teaspoons  salt 
Put  the  meal  into  a  shallow  pan  and  heat  it  in  oven 


4  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

until  it  is  a  delicate  brown,  stirring  frequently.  Make  the 
nut  cream  by  mixing  peanut  butter  with  cold  water  and 
heating  to  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  While  the  nut 
cream  is  hot,  stir  in  the  hot  corn  meal.  Beat  thoroughly. 
Drop  from  a  spoon  in  small  cakes  on  a  well-greased  pan 
and  bake. 

If  preferred,  these  biscuits  may  be  made  with  butter  in 
place  of  peanut  cream,  and  i  cup  chopped  raisins  may  be 
added. 

Corn-Meal  Biscuit 
Recipe  II 

I  cup  com  meal  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  white  flour  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  tablespoons  fat  ^  cup  hot  milk 

Pour  hot  milk  over  the  corn  meal,  add  fat  and  salt. 
When  mixture  is  cool,  add  }4  cup  of  the  flour  sifted  with 
the  baking  powder.  Roll  out  lightly  on  board  with  the 
remainder  of  the  flour.  Cut  out  with  biscuit-cutter.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven. 

Corn-Meal  Muffins 

J/2  cup  com  meal  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

J4  cup  boiling  water  i  egg 

2  tablespoons  butter  }4  cup  milk 

J^  cup  flour  }4  teaspoon  salt 

Pour  boiling  water  over  meal,  add  the  butter,  and  let 
mixture  stand  30  minutes.  Sift  together  flour,  baking 
pov/der,  and  salt,  and  add  the  well-beaten  egg  and  milk, 
mixing  thoroughly.  Put  batter  into  hot,  well-greased 
muffin  tins  and  bake  about  20  minutes. 


CORN  MEAL  5 

Rice  and  Corn-Meal  Muffins 
I  cup  left-over  cooked  i  teaspoon  salt 

rice  5  teaspoons  baking 

I  cup  com  meal  powder 

I  cup  white  flour  i}i  cups  milk 

3  teaspoons  butter 
Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients  together.     Add  rice  to 
milk  and  combine  the  two  mixtures.     Beat  well  and  pour 
into  well-greased  muffin  pans  and  bake. 

Corn-Meal  Griddlecakes 
{Sweet  Milk) 

1  cup  com  meal  2  teaspoons  baking 

2  tablespoons  flour  powder 
%  teaspoon  salt                              i  egg 
Boiling  water                                  i  cup  milk 

Scald  the  corn  meal  with  just  enough  boiling  water  to 
cover.  Let  it  stand  5  minutes,  then  add  flour,  salt,  beaten 
egg,  milk,  and  lastly  the  baking  powder.  Beat  well.  Cook 
at  once  on  a  hot,  well-greased  griddle. 

Corn-Meal  Griddlecakes 
{Buttermilk) 
}i  cup  com  meal  i  egg 

Yi  cup  flour  yi  cup  hot  water 

1  teaspoon  salt  i  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  buttermilk  i  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Beat  the  ^gg  and  stir  in  the  milk.     Put  soda  in  hot  water 

and  add  to  milk-and-egg  mixture.  Then  add  the  meal 
sifted  with  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Bake  in  cakes 
on  hot,  well-greased  griddle. 


6  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

Corn-Meal  Pancakes 
^  cup  com  meal  i  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder        i  cup  milk 
Sift  together  the  com  meal,  flour,  baking  powder,  and 
salt.     Mix  the  milk  and  melted  butter.     Combine  the  two 
mixtures  and  bake  on  hot,  greased  griddle. 

Corn-Meal  Waffles 
^  cup  com  meal  i  teaspoon  salt 

i>^  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

4  teaspoons  baking  i>^  cups  milk 

powder  i  egg 

Sift  together  the  corn  meal,  flour,  baking  powder,  and 
salt.  Add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs  to  the  milk  and 
melted  butter.  Combine  the  two  mixtures  and  fold  in 
the  beaten  white  of  egg.  Bake  in  a  very  hot,  well-greased 
waffle  iron  until  brown. 

Corn-Meal  and  Rice  Waffles 
{Sour  Milk) 
}4  cup  com  meal  i  cup  boiled  rice 

}4  cup  flour  2  eggs 

I  tablespoon  melted  butter  i  teaspoon  salt 

}4  teaspoon  soda  i  cup  soiir  milk 

Sift  together  the  flour,  soda,  and  salt.  Add  the  other 
ingredients  and  beat  thoroughly.  Have  irons  hot  and  well 
greased. 


CORN   MEAL  FOR  DINNER 

Corn-Meal  Tamale  Pie 
2  cups  com  meal  i  onion 

6  cups  water  2  cups  tomatoes 

I  tablespoon  fat  i  pound  hamburger  steak 

Salt  and  pepper 

Make  a  mush  by  stirring  the  corn  meal  and  i>^  tea- 
spoons salt  into  the  boiling  water.  Cook  45  minutes. 
.Brown  onion  in  fat,  add  hamburger,  and  stir  until  red 
(Color  disappears.  Add  salt,  pepper,  and  tomatoes.  A 
fsweet  pepper  well  chopped  may  also  be  added.  Grease 
baking  dish,  put  in  layer  of  corn  meal  mush,  add  seasoned 
meat,  and  cover  with  mush.     Bake  30  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

Corn-Meal  Mush  with  Pork 
I  pound  lean  pork  (part  lean,  part  bone) 
I  cup  com  meal  yi  teaspoon  powdered  sage 

I  teaspoon  salt  Water 

Cook  the  pork  in  water  until  the  meat  can  be  removed 
from  the  bone.  Remove  the  meat,  cool  the  broth,  and 
/remove  the  fat.  Take  i  quart  of  the  broth  and  cook  the 
com  moal  in  it.  Add  finely  chopped  meat  and  seasoning. 
Pack  in  bread  pans.     When  cold  cut  in  slices  and  fry. 

Corn-Meal  Batter  Pudding 
{For  Roast  Pork) 
%  cup  com  meal  2  eggs 

I  cup  milk  ]A  teaspoon  salt 

Put  the  milk,  corn  meal,  and  salt  in  the  top  of  a  double 
boiler;   cook  about  15  minutes.     Remove  and  cool.     Add 

7 


8  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

well-beaten  eggs  and  mix  well .  Pour  batter  into  well-greased 
muffin  tins  and  bake  in  moderate  oven,  basting  several 
times  with  drippings  of  pork.     Serve  with  baked  pork. 

Corn-Meal  Dressing 
I  cup  corn-bread  crumbs        i  small  onion  chopped 
I  cup  stale  bread  crumbs        3  tablespoons  fat 
I  cup  chopped  celery  i  cup  boiling  water 

Pepper,  salt,  and  sage 

Mix  dry  ingredients  thoroughly,  then  add  water,  tossing 
lightly  with  fork  to  prevent  sogginess. 

Tamales 

Meat  from  yi  boiled  i  onion  or  i  clove 
chicken  garlic 

1  cup  com  meal  %  teaspoon  pepper 

2  red  peppers  i  teaspoon  salt 

Com  husks 
Chop  the  chicken,  then  add  the  seasoning.  Mold  into 
little  rolls  about  2  inches  long  and  ^  inch  in  diameter. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  the  meal  and  stir,  using  enough 
to  make  a  thick  paste.  Soften  the  corn  husks  by  immersing 
them  in  hot  water.  Remove.  Take  i  tablespoon  of  the 
corn-meal  paste,  pat  it  out  flat,  and  wrap  it  around  a  roll 
of  the  chicken.  Then  wrap  each  roll  m  a  corn  husk,  tying 
the  husks  with  a  piece  of  string  close  to  the  end  of  the  roll. 
Trim  off  the  ends  of  the  husks,  allowing  them  to  project 
about  two  inches  beyond  the  roll.  Put  tamales  into  sauce- 
pan and  cover  them  with  the  broth  in  which  the  chicken 
was  cooked  or  with  boiling  salted  water.  Add  red  pep- 
pers and  boil  20  minutes. 


CORN  MEAL  9 

Orange  Corn-Meal  Fritters 
yi  cup  com  meal  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

2  cups  hot  milk  %  cup  sugar 

yi  teaspoon  salt  Grated  rind  of  i  orange 

Sift  together  the  corn  meal,  salt,  and  sugar,  and  gradu- 
ally add  mixture  to  the  hot  milk.  Cook  i  hour.  Add  a 
Httle  of  the  mush  to  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  grated  rind  of 
orange.  Mix  well  and  stir  into  the  rest  of  the  mush.  Beat 
well  and  let  cook  3  minutes.  Turn  batter  into  a  well- 
greased  shallow  pan.  When  it  is  cold  cut  like  doughnuts, 
dip  in  flour,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  on  paper,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  and  serve  hot. 

Spider  Corn  Bread 

1)4  cups  com  meal  i  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  sour  milk  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  soda  2  tablespoons  butter 

Mix  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  well-beaten  ^gg  and  the 
milk.  Place  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  melt  it,  and  grease 
the  pan  well.  Heat  the  pan  and  turn  in  the  mixture. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  20  minutes. 

Corn  Bread 
Recipe  I 

2  cups  com  meal  2  tablespoons  fat 
2  cups  sweet  milk  i  Qgg 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  i  teaspoon  salt 

I  teaspoon  sugar  (may  be  omitted) 
Mix   the  dry  ingredients.     Add   the   milk,   well-beater. 
egg,  and  melted  fat.     Beat  well.     Bake  in  a  shallow  pan 
30  minutes. 


lO  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

Corn  Bread 
Recipe  II 
I  pint  sifted  meal  i  cup  sour  milk 

1  egg  2  tablespoons  fat 
^2  teaspoon  soda  i  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  ingredients,  pour  batter  into  hot,  well-greased  pan, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

New  Orleans  Corn  Bread 
i}^  pints  com  meal  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

}4  pint  flour  i  tablespoon  butter 

I  tablespoon  sugar  i}i  pints  milk 

I  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs 

Sift  together  corn  meal,  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  baking 
powder.  Rub  in  the  butter  or  lard,  add  the  well-beaten 
egg  and  the  milk.  Mix  well,  pour  batter  into  a  shallow, 
well-greased  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  30  minutes. 

Dixie  Corn  Bread 

2  cups  com  meal  2  tablespoons  sugar 

I  cup  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2j4  cups  milk  I  teaspoon  salt 

I  tablespoon  lard  2  eggs 

Sift  together  all  the  dry  ingredients,  melt  the  lard,  add 
the  milk,  then  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Fold  in 
well-beaten  whites.  Mix  well,  turn  batter  into  a  well- 
greased  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  30  minutes. 

Crackling  Bread 

3  cups  com  meal  K  teaspoon  soda 
I  teaspoon  salt  i  cup  buttermilk 

I  cup  cracklings 
Sift  the  flour  with  the  salt  and  the  soda.     Stir  in  the 


CORN  MEAL  I I 

buttermilk  and  the  cracklings  made  from  rendered  pork 
fat.  Shape  into  a  long  oval  loaf,  place  on  a  griddle,  and 
bake  until  done  through  and  brown.  Or  shape  into  pones, 
put  in  pan,  and  bake  until  done.  Break  into  pieces  to 
serve,  do  not  cut. 

Corn-Meal  Pones 
2  cups  com  meal  ^  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  lard  %  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  buttermilk  i  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  the  meal,  soda,  and  salt,  add  the  lard,  and  when 
mixture  is  smooth  stir  in  the  milk  and  water.  Mix  well. 
Shape  into  small  pones.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  When 
ready  to  serve,  break  pones  intc  pieces,  do  not  cut. 

Corn-Meal  Hoecake 

2  cups  corn  meal  yi  cup  boiling  water 
yi  teaspoon  salt                           ^  cup  cold  water 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  corn  meal.  Let  it  cool. 
Add  the  cold  water  and  the  salt.  Cook  on  a  hot,  well- 
greased  griddle  until  one  side  is  brown,  turn,  and  brown 
other  side.  While  cakes  are  hot,  butter  them  and  serve 
at  once. 

Corn-Meal  Sticks 
2  cups  com  meal  yi  teaspoon  soda 

I  ^'gg  Buttermilk  to  make  a 

I  teaspoon  salt  soft  batter 

2  tablespoons  fat 

Mix  ingredients  as  with  other  corn  breads,  adding  i 
teaspoon  sugar  if  desired.  Grease  the  stick  pans  well  and 
have  them  very  hot,  pour  mixture  in,  and  bake  sticks  until 
they  are  brown. 


12  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

Corn  Dodgers 
I  pint  sifted  meal  yi  pint  sour  buttermilk 

I  tablespoon  lard  %  teaspoon  soda  (put 

I  egg  in  milk) 

Salt 
Mix  ingredients  well.     Shape  into  cones  with  hands,  put 
on  greased  pan,  and  bake. 

Kentucky  Corn  Dodgers 

1  pint  sifted  meal  i  tablespoon  lard 
^2  pint  cold  water                            Salt 

Mix  ingredients  well.  Shape  into  cones  and  bake  as 
dodgers  as  in  recipe  above. 

Rice  Corn  Bread 

2  cups  corn  meal  2  tablespoons  butter 
2>^  cups  milk  yi  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking 
I  cup  left-over  boiled  rice  powder 

To  the  well-beaten  eggs  add  the  milk,  meal,  melted  butter, 
rice,  salt,  and  baking  powder.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  well- 
greased  shallow  pan  in  hot  oven.     Serve  hot. 

Egoless  Corn  Bread 

1  cup  com  meal  i  tablespoon  baking 
yi  cup  flour  powder 

2  tablespoons  lard  2  teaspoons  salt 

I  cup  milk 
Mix  the  sifted  com  meal,  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder. 
Add  the  melted  lard  and  the  milk.     Beat  well,  pour  batter 
into  well-greased  pan,  and  bake. 


CORN  MEAL  13 

Corn  Pudding  in  Corn-Meal  Cups 

corn  pudding 
I  can  com  i  teaspoon  sugar 

yi  teaspoon  salt  i  tablespoon  butter 

Mix  ingredients  well  and  pour  batter  into  the  corn-meal 
cups.     Brown  in  oven. 

CORN-MEAL   CUPS 

^^  cup  com  meal  yi  teaspoon  salt 

^2  cup  fioiu"  2  tablespoons  fat 

I  y2  teaspoons  baking  powder  Water 

Sift  together  the  corn  meal,  flour,  baking  powder,  and 
salt.  Mix  in  well  the  fat  and  enough  water  to  make  a 
stiff  paste.  Turn  out  on  floured  board,  cut  into  rounds, 
and  put  over  inverted  muffin  tins.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

CORN-MEAL   DESSERTS 
Delicate  Indian  Pudding 
I  pint  sweet  milk  2  tablespoons  com  meal 

4  tablespoons  sugar  3  eggs 

Small  lump  butter  Salt 

Boil  the  milk  and  into  it  slowly  sift  the  meal.  Add 
butter,  sugar,  and  salt.  Set  aside  to  cool.  When  mixture 
is  cool,  add  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Pour  batter  into  baking 
dish  and  cook  J^  hour. 

Corn-Meal  Puffs 

4  tablespoons  meal  2  tablespoons  sugar 

I  pint  milk  14,  teaspoon  nutmeg 

3  eggs 

Into  the  boiling  milk  stir  the  meal,  sugar,  and  nutmeg. 


14  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

Boil  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire. 
When  mixture  is  cool,  stir  in  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Mix 
well  and  pour  the  batter  into  buttered  teacups.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  yi  hour.     Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

LEMON   SAUCE 
I  cup  sugar  >^  teaspoon  extract  lemon 

1  cup  water  i  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  15  minutes.  Remove  from 
fire.  When  sirup  is  cooled,  add  the  extract  and  lemon 
juice. 

Corn-Meal  and  Fig  Pudding 
yi  cup  com  meal  yi  cup  chopped  figs 

5^  cup  molasses  i  ^^% 

3  cups  milk  ]/2  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  the  corn  meal  with  the  milk,  add  the  molasses, 
figs,  and  salt.  When  the  mixture  is  cool,  add  the  beaten 
eggs.  Pour  batter  into  a  well-buttered  baking  dish  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  i  hour.  When  pudding  is  partly 
cooked,  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk  without  stirring. 

Corn-Meal  Fruit  Scones 
^2  cup  com  meal  ^  teaspoon  salt 

lyi  cups  floiu-  I  ^zg  and  i  yolk 

2  tablespoons  sugar  >^  cup  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder        yi  cup  seeded  raisins 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  add  raisins,  beaten 
^gZ^  sugar,  and  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll 
out  to  J^  inch  thickness;  divide  into  four  parts.  Brush 
over  with  yolk  of  egg  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20 
minutes.  Scones  may  be  split  and  spread  with  orange 
marmalade. 


CORN  MEAL  IS 

Corn-Meal  Raisin  Gems 
I  cup  com  meal  4  teaspoons  baking 

I  tablespoon  sugar  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt  i  cup  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  yi  cup  raisins 
lyi  cups  hot  milk  i  ^g% 

Mix  corn  meal  with  sugar,  salt,  butter,  and  milk.  Cool, 
add  raisins,  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder,  and  the  well- 
beaten  %%g.  Mix  well  and  pour  batter  into  hot,  well- 
greased  muffin  pans.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  20 
minutes. 

Corn-Meal  Molasses  Cookies 
yi  cup  com  meal  yi  teaspoon  soda 

^  cup  flour  yi  teaspoon  salt 

yi  cup  molasses  %  teaspoon  ginger 

3  tablespoons  shorten-  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
ing                                          Water  to  make  a  stiff 

1  egg  dough 

Boil  together  water,  molasses,  and  shortening  for  i  minute. 
Add  beaten  ^gg.  Have  dry  ingredients  sifted  together. 
Pour  in  liquid,  beating  hard.  Make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll 
very  thin  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Molasses  Corn-Meal  Cake 

2  cups  com  meal  i  cup  sour  milk 

>^  cup  molasses  i  >^  cups  sweet  milk 

y^  cup  sugar  i  cup  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  i>^  teaspoons  soda 

I  teaspoon  salt  i  ^gg 

Mix  the  first  seven  ingredients  in  a  double  boiler  and 
cook  over  hot  water  about  25  minutes.  After  mixture 
has  cooled,  add  the  flour  and  soda  thoroughly  sifted  together 


1 6  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

and  the  egg  well  beaten.     Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 

Corn-Meal  Crullers 

1  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  baking 

2  cups  com  meal  powder 

2  tablespoons  butter  J/2  teaspoon  salt 

}^  cup  sugar  J/2  teaspoon  mace 

}4  cup  flour  I  egg 

Scald  half  of  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  half  of  the 
com  meal,  and  stir  until  thick.  Add  the  remaining  milk, 
corn  meal,  the  butter,  sugar,  flour,  baking  powder,  salt, 
mace,  and  well-beaten  egg.  Mix  well  and  let  cool.  Roll 
out  dough,  cut  with  a  cutter,  and  fry  in  hot,  deep  fat. 
When  they  are  cooked,  roll  crullers  in  sugar  if  desired. 

Corn-Meal  Doughnuts 
I  cup  com  meal  }4  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  scalded  milk  i    teaspoon   cinnamon 

I  egg  4   teaspoons   baking 

I  cup  sugar  powder 

I  tablespoon  butter  3  cups  flour 

Cover  meal  with  scalded  milk,  add  egg,  sugar,  butter, 
salt,  cinnamon,  baking  powder,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make 
a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  dough,  cut  with  a  doughnut- 
cutter,  and  fry  in  smoking  fat.  When  doughnuts  are  done, 
remove  them  from  the  fat  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  if  desired. 

Custard  Corn-Meal  Cake 

1  cup  sweet  milk  2  eggs 

i^  cups  com  meal  J4  cup  sugar 

J^  cup  flour  I  teaspoon  soda 

2  tablespoons  butter  i  teaspoon  salt 
I  cup  cream  i  cup  sour  milk 

Cream   the   eggs   and   sugar   together.     Sift   the   flour, 


CORN  MEAL  i? 

soda,  and  salt  together  and  mix  with  the  meal.  Add  and 
mix  all  the  otker  ingredients  except  the  butter  and  the 
cream.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  baking  dish  that  has  been 
greased  with  the  melted  butter,  add  the  cream,  but  do  not 
stir  mixture.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  30  minutes. 

Corn-Meal  Ginger  Bread 

I  cup  com  meal  i  teaspoon  cinnamon 

I  cup  white  flour  yi  teaspoon  cloves 

1  teaspoon  soda  i  cup  sour  milk 
^  teaspoon  salt  i  cup  molasses 

2  teaspoons  ginger  2  tablespoons  butter 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients.  Mix  together  the 
milk,  butter,  and  beaten  egg.  Combine  the  two  mixtures. 
Stir  well.  Pour  batter  into  a  well-greased  pan  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Lemon  Custard  in  Corn-Meal  Cases 
I  cup  com  meal  y^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  teaspoons  baking  Yolk  of  i  &gg 
powder  Water 

Sift  corn  meal,  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder,  cut  in 
butter,  add  yolk  of  well-beaten  egg  and  enough  water  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  dough  thin,  cut  round  pieces, 
and  put  them  in  muffin  tins,  fill  with  the  lemon  custard, 
and  bake. 

lemon  custard 

3  tablespoons  cornstarch  2  lemons 
3  tablespoons  sugar                                       2  eggs 

Mix  the  cornstarch,  sugar,  and  hot  water  and  boil  5 


i8  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

minutes.  Add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemon  and  let 
mixture  cool.  Stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  and  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  pour  custard  into  the  cases  as  directed. 

Old-Fashioned  Corn-Meal  Pudding 
4  cups  scalded  milk  i  teaspoon  salt 

}4  cup  com  meal  i  teaspoon  cinnamon 

^2  cup  molasses  ^  cup  seeded  raisins 

I  tablespoon  butter  i  pint  cold  milk 

2  eggs 
Pour  the  hot  milk  over  the  corn  meal  and  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  20  minutes.  Add  the  molasses,  butter,  salt,  cinna- 
mon, and  raisins.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  pour  in 
the  cold  milk.  Combine  the  two  mixtures,  pour  batter 
into  well-greased  baking  dish,  and  bake  slowly  ^  hour. 

Corn-Meal  Fruit  Gems 
^2  cup  com  meal  2  tablespoons  melted  fat 

I  cup  wheat  flour  i  teaspoon  salt 

3  teaspoons  baking  i  cup  milk 
powder                               i  cup  raisins 

6  tablespoons  sugar  2  eggs 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  milk,  the  eggs  well  beaten, 
fat,  and  raisins  that  have  been  floured.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  in  greased  tins  about  25  minutes. 

Corn-Meal  Fruit  Bumpers 
I  cup  com  meal  4  teaspoons  baking 

I  cup  wheat  flour  powder 

}4  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  butter 

4  tablespoons  milk  i  egg 

Mix  and  sift  three  times  the  com  meal,  wheat  flour, 
salt,  and  baking  powder.    Work  in  the  butter  and  add 


CORN  MEAL  19 

the  well-beaten  egg  and  the  milk.  Turn  dough  on  to  a 
well-floured  board  and  roll  to  >^  inch  thickness.  Sprinkle 
with  cinnamon  and  chopped  raisins,  cut  off  squares,  place 
on  well-greased  baking  tin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Corn-Meal  Cheese  Sticks 
2  tablespoons  grated  ^2  teaspoon  salt 

cheese  2   teaspoons  baking 

I  j^  cups  com  meal  powder 

^2  cup  wheat  flour  i  egg 

I  cup  milk  I  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Sift  together  the  corn  meal,  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder. 
Beat  eggy  add  milk,  butter,  and  grated  cheese.  Stir  in 
corn-meal  mixture,  beat  well,  pour  into  stick  pans  well 
greased,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


CORN   MEAL  FOR  SUPPER 

Corn-Meal  Boston  Bread 
i>^  cups  com  meal  ^  cup  molasses 

i>^  cups  whole  wheat  i%  cups  buttermilk 

flour  I  tablespoon  cooking  oil 

I  teaspoon  salt  i^i  cups  raisins  and 

lyi  teaspoons  soda  nuts,  mixed 

Mix  together  all  the  dry  ingredients,  then  add  molasses, 
buttermilk,  cooking  oil,  and  lastly  the  mixed  chopped 
raisins  and  nuts.  Grease  yeast-powder  cans,  fill  them  three- 
quarters  full,  and  steam  about  3  hours.  Remove  the 
covers  and  bake  the  bread  long  enough  to  dry  out  the  top. 

Steamed  Corn  Bread 
I  egg  lyi  cups  com  meal 

I  cup  buttermilk  1/2  cup  floiu" 

I  teaspoon  soda  i  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  the  well-beaten  egg,  the  buttermilk,  and  the  molasses. 
Into  this  sift  the  corn  meal,  flour,  soda,  and  salt.  Pour 
batter  into  a  well-greased  mold  and  steam  2  hours.  Do 
not  slice  until  bread  is  cold. 


Corn-Meal  Mush  in  Fireless  Cooker 

I  aip  com  meal  i  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  water 

Stir  the  meal  slowly  into  the  boiling  salted  water,  being 

careful  that  lumps  do  not  form.     Allow  mixture  to  boil 

slowly  10  minutes,  place  it  in  cooker,  and  allow  it  to  remain 

over  night.     Use  one  radiator. 

20 


CORN  MEAL  21 

Corn-Meal  Sweet-Potato  Bread 

2>^  quarts  fine  corn  meal  i  pint  mashed  sweet 

lyi  quarts  white  flour  potatoes 

2  teaspoons  salt  i  cake  yeast 

Mix  I  pint  each  of  the  corn  meal  and  flour.  Add  warm 
water  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  also  the  yeast  cake,  mixed 
with  a  small  quantity  of  water.  Keep  sponge  in  a  warm 
place  until  light.  Scald  remainder  of  meal  with  boiling 
water,  cool,  and  add  it,  together  with  potatoes,  salt,  and 
remainder  of  flour,  to  the  sponge.  Knead  well,  and  set  in 
warm  place  to  rise.  When  it  is  light,  put  it  into  bread 
pans  and  let  it  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Bake  in  a 
moderate   oven. 


Corn-Meal  Souffle 
I  cup  com-meal  mush  i  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sweet  milk  yi  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  y2  cup  grated  cheese 
Make   mush   as   directed   on  page   2.    Add   the  milk, 

baking  powder,  salt,  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  cheese, 
mixing  well.  Fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Pour  mixture  into  a  well-buttered  baking  dish  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  25  minutes. 


Corn-Meal  Bannock 

2  cups  milk  3  eggs 

y^  cup  com  meal  yi  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  in  a  double  boiler  the  milk,  corn  meal,  and  salt, 
until  it  reaches  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Remove 
from  fire  and  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs. 


22  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.     Pour  batter 
into  a  well-greased  baking  dish,  and  bake  30  minutes. 

Polenta  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Yi  cup  com  meal  2  cups  boiling  water 

y2  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  grated  cheese 

I  cup  tomato  sauce 

Stir  the  com  meal  gradually  into  the  boiling  salt  water. 
Cook  a  few  minutes,  then  put  it  into  a  double  boiler  and 
cook  I  hour.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  to  a  hot  platter,  and 
sprinkle  with  the  grated  cheese.  Serve  with  the  tomato 
sauce. 

TOMATO   SAUCE 

Cook  slowly  for  10  minutes  }4.  can  tomatoes,  i  chopped 
onion,  ]/t  teaspoon  salt,  i  clove.  Remove  and  press 
through  a  sieve.  Cook  together  i  tablespoon  each  of 
flour  and  butter  i  minute,  add  tomato  mixture,  stir  until 
smooth,  and  cook  slowly  5  minutes. 

Fried  Corn-Meal  Nut  Cakes 
2  cups  com  meal  i  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  fat  i  egg 

3  cups  boiling  water  yi  cup  chopped  nuts 

Bring  water  and  salt  to  boiling  point,  add  corn  meal 
and  nuts.  Cook  10  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  add 
well-beaten  egg,  and  fat.  Turn  into  mold  and  cool.  When 
mixture  is  cold,  slice  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with 
honey  or  maple  sirup. 

Chicken  and  Corn-Meal  Croquettes 
I  cup  chopped  chicken  i  ^gg 

I  cup  com-meal  mush  Salt  and  pepper 

Few  drops  onion  juice 


CORN  MEAL  23 

Mix  the  chicken  and  corn-meal  mush.  Add  the  well- 
beaten  egg  and  the  seasoning.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
hot  fat. 

Corn-Meal  and  Meat  Croquettes 
I  cup  corn-meal  mush  Few  drops  onion  juice 

1  cup  chopped  meat  Salt  and  pepper 

Combine  the  ingredients  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot 
fat. 

Corn-Meal  Fish  Balls 

2  cups  corn-meal  mush  i  cup  shredded  codfish 
I  egg  I  tablespoon  butter 

Pick  over  the  codfish  and  soak  it  to  remove  salt.  Com- 
bine with  the  mush,  eggy  and  butter.  Drop  by  spoonfuls 
into  hot  fat. 

Corn-Meal  Mush  and  Cheese 
Make  a  mush  with  i  cup  corn  meal.     When  it  is  done, 

add  }4  cup  grated  cheese  and  leave  pan  over  fire  only  until 

cheese  melts.     Serve  at  once. 

The  cheese  in  this  mush  takes  the  place  of  cream,  besides 

making  it  a  more  nourishing  dish. 

Corn-Meal  Rolls 
I  cup  com  meal  J/2  cup  mashed  potatoes 

ij5^  cups  flotir  2  tablespoons  sugar 

4  teaspoons  baking  i  tablespoon  fat 

powder  ^  cup  milk 

I  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  mashed  potatoes,  sugar, 
milk,  and  melted  fat,  mixing  well  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Roll  dough  out  on  floured  board  to  J/2  inch  thickness.  Cut 
in  circles,  spread  them  with  melted  fat,  and  bake  in  hot 
oven  from  25  to  30  minutes. 


24  THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 

HOW  TO  USE  LEFT-OVER  CORN-MEAL  MUSH 

1.  To  reheat  corn-meal  mush  place  it  in  a  double  boiler, 
add  a  little  hot  milk,  and  cook  3  minutes. 

2.  Reheat  left-over  mush,  stir  in  a  few  scalded  figs  or 
dates,  pour  mixture  into  a  mold,  and  serve  cold  with  sugar 
and  cream  as  a  dessert. 

3.  Put  left-over  mush  into  a  deep  pan  to  mold.  When 
it  is  cold,  cut  it  in  slices,  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

4.  Mix  the  left-over  mush  with  a  well-beaten  egg,  put 
it  into  well-greased  shallow  baking  dish,  and  brown  in  hot 
oven.     Let  it  remain  in  oven  long  enough  to  cook  the  egg. 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY-SERIES 

Bi?  BessU  R.  Murphy,  Food  Expert  and  Lecturer 

The  books  of  this  little  series  for  school  and  home  use  are  something 
more  than  a  collection  of  tested  recipes  for  the  preparation  of  foods 
we  know.  They  represent,  besides,  a  thrifty  and  thinking  use  of 
home-grown  foods  to  the  most  appetizing,  economical,  and  healthful 
ends. 

Rice :    For  Breakfast,  Dinner,  and  Supper. 

In  the  inviting  recipes  of  this  little  book,  rice  is  shown  not  only  in 
its  possibilities  as  a  cereal,  soup,  salad,  dinner  vegetable,  bread,  dessert, 
and  invalid  food,  but  in  its  value  for  nourishment  and  energy,  and  as 
an  admirable  balance  for  the  diet. 

Peanuts:    For  Breakfast,  Dinner,  and  Supper. 

Wholesome,  healthful,  and  flavorous,  the  humble  peanut  is  presented 
in  its  countless  uses  for  the  table — as  breads,  meat  substitutes,  dressing 
for  poultry,  salads,  desserts,  candies,  butter,  and  relishes — ^food  prepa- 
rations that  whet  the  appetite,  and  at  the  same  time  bring  before  us 
the  importance  of  the  peanut  as  a  food. 

Corn  Meal:    For  Breakfast,  Dinner,  and  Supper. 

In  the  breads,  griddlecakes,  tamales,  corn-cheese  sticks,  croquettes 
of  meat,  and  other  good  things,  the  young  cook  gets  not  only  a  sug- 
gestion of  the  Indian  feast — "green  corn  and  venison" — but  instruction 
as  to  how  to  prepare  and  cook  properly  corn-meal  dishes  that  tempt 
the  appetite. 

Potatoes :    For  Breakfast,  Dinner,  and  Supper. 

Anyone  who  uses  this  book  will  approach  potatoes,  whether  Irish 
or  sweet,  with  a  new  interest.  It  is  surprising  how  many  toothsome 
changes  may  be  rung  on  the  necessary  tuber  in  the  way  of  breads, 
as  a  vegetable  in  combination  with  others,  as  croquettes,  salads, 
doughnuts,  cakes,  pies. 

Legumes:    Dried  Beans,  Peas,  and  Lentils. 

Under  Legumes,  the  student  comes  to  know  the  tmusual  food  value 
of  beans,  peas,  and  lentils,  as  compared  with  other  vegetables  and 
their  cost,  also  that  there  are  innumerable  ways  of  preparing  "the 
poor  man's  beef"  in  savory  baked  and  stewed  dishes,  and  soups. 

Bound  in  paper,  price,  each,  $0.25 

RAND  McNALLY  &  COMPANY 

CHICAGO  NEW  YORK 


HOME  ECONOMICS  SERIES 

LESSONS  IN  COOKERY 

jBp  Frances  EUzaheth  Stewart,  Instructor  in  Home  Economics, 
Robert  Lindblom  Technical  High  SchooU  Chicago 

This  series,  a  two-year  course  for  high  schools,  is  a  definite  force 
for  self-help.  ^  Based  upon  economic  values,  and  treating  foods  and 
their  preparation  for  the  child,  adult,  and  invalid  in  relation  to  health, 
these  four  books  not  only  make  for  better  and  more  profitable  service 
in  the  home,  but  they  lay  the  foundation  for  a  radical  improvement 
in  health  for  those  who  come  under  its  influence. 

Food  Economy.  Book  One  consists  of  lessons  in  cooking  care- 
fully planned  to  lower  the  cost  of  living  and  to  attain  the  greatest  values 
in  food.  Naturally  "the  balanced  ration"  and  "complete  dishes" 
are  features  of  the  book.  Food  Economy  treats  preservation  of 
foods  by  means  of  drying  and  canning,  "left-overs,"  inexpensive  meat 
cuts,  stews,  meat  substitutes,  bread,  and  wheat  substitutes,  and  gives 
invaluable  exercises  and  aids  for  the  use  of  the  future  housewife. 
$1.25 

Diet  for  Adults.  In  Book  Two  the  needs  of  the  worker  are  the 
subject  of  study,  and  calorie  values  are  the  basis  of  the  dishes  treated. 
Suitable  diets  for  both  hard  and  light  workers  are  carefully  considered. 
Problems  in  calorie  values,  such  as  the  loo-calorie  portion  scheme,  give 
the  pupil  thinking  work  to  do $1.25 

Diet  for  Children.  Book  Three  deals  with  suitable  food  for 
babies  and  children.  For  the  older  infant  there  are  broths,  gruels,  and 
fruit  juices,  and  for  children  of  four  to  eight  years,  such  dishes  as  cereals, 
cream  soups,  simple  fruit  and  milk  desserts.  The  older  child  also  has 
attention.  Sections  on  lunch  boxes,  parties,  and  penny  lunchrooms 
have  point  for  teacher,  parent,  and  pupil $1.25 

Diet  for  Invalids.  Book  Four  gives  an  interesting  insight  into 
foods  in  their  relation  to  disease.  Here  are  bran  breads  and  dried 
foods  useful  for  elimination  diseases,  special  diet  for  diabetes  and 
fever  patients,  and  for  children  wasting  from  malnutrition;  here  are 
foods  valuable  for  iron,  fats,  and  proteins.  The  book  is  one  of  worth, 
not  only  to  the  teacher  and  pupil,  but  to  the  nurse  and  mother.  .$1.25 

These  books  are  bound  also  in  laboratory 
form  ready  for  filing  in  notebooks 

Price,  each  $1.25 

RAND  McNALLY  &  COMPANY 

CHICAGO  NEW  YORK 


LbAg'ZO 


