TX 

U 


EL!£ ABETH  e.  •  MILLER 


m^i 


Class  XK_8i)l_ 
Book_-J^XH-4» 
Gopi^htN" 


COPKRIGIIT  DEPOSIT. 


''  Corn  will  yet  be  the  spinal  column 
of  the  nation's  agriculture." 

-JAMES  G.  BLAINE. 


The 
Corn  Cook  Book 


Compiled,  Arranged  and 
Published  by 

Elizabeth  O.  Hiller 

Formerly  Principal  of  the 

Chicago  Dome^ic  Science  Training  School 
Ledlurer  on  Household  Science 


CHICAGO 

The    Rogerson    Press 
83-85  Fifth  Avenue 

X907 


LfSrtAHY  of  CONGRESS 
I  wo  CoDles  Received 

OCT    9  i90r 

Copyrieht  Entry 

CLASS  A      )tXc.,  No. 
COPY  B. 


Copyright,  1907 

by 

Elizabeth  O.  Hiller 


PREFACE 


N  compiling  this  little  Corn  Cook  Book,  my 
chief  aim  has  been  to  awaken  a  greater  in- 
terest among  the  housekeepers  and  cooks  of 
this  country  in  the  Food  Value  of  Corn  and 
Corn  Products.  I  have  therefore  created 
some  new  recipes,  revised  many  old  ones, 
formerly  used  in  New  England  by  our  forefathers  and  else- 
where in  the  United  States. 

Personally,  I  have  for  years  been  very  much  interested  in 
the  preparation  of  this  most  valuable  cereal.  Regardless  of  the 
fact  that  corn  is  a  native  of  America  and  is  grown  in  every  state 
in  the  Union,  and  some  of  the  foods  prepared  from  it  are  known 
as  our  "National  dishes,"  many  of  our  young  American  house- 
wives of  today  do  not  seem  to  appreciate  its  true  value  as  a 
"human  food."  That  corn  is  not  used  by  the  modern  house- 
wife as  extensively  as  it  should  be,  is  doubtless  due  to  the  preju- 
dice existing  among  many  people  against  cooking  corn,  owang 
to  the  time  involved  and  its  heating  qualities.  ,  Others  insisting 
that  it  is  only  to  be  eaten  in  cold  weather.  This  is  all  a  grave 
error.  This  cereal  must  be  well  cooked ;  long  slow  cooking  im- 
proves its  flavor,  and  increases  its  digestibility.  The  process 
of  milling  corn  in  this  century  is  vastly  different  from  the 
"old  or  Southern  Milled  Corn,"  the  germ  and  hull,  or  crude 
fibre,  is  all  removed.  The  former  was  the  great  "heat  producer," 
and  too,  when  left  in  the  meal  lessened  its  keeping  qualities. 
The  meal  would  become  rancid  and  infested  with  vermin.    As  it 


is  milled  today  all  of  this  is  eliminated.  Coming  in  contact 
with  thousands  of  housewives  in  my  professional  life,  I  have 
learned  of  this  lack  of  interest  in  the  cooking  of  cereals,  and 
especially  corn  or  hominy. 

Fully  realizing  the  positive  need  of  a  more  wide-spread 
knowledge  of  its  food  value  and  preparation,  I  set  to  work  to 
wTite  the  "Corn  Cook  Book,"  when  to  my  delight  the  "Na- 
tional Corn  Exposition"  came  into  existence.  The  Corn  Kitchen 
was.  assigned  to  my  care  and  management  and  of  course  the 
Corn  Cook  Book,  must  needs  be  completed.  I  have  therefore 
spent  months  experimenting  w^ith  the  corn  products,  making 
the  new  creations,  testing  the  old  recipes,  which  had  been  sent 
to  me  from  East,  West,  North  and  South,  especially  East  and 
South,  hoping  that  I  might  awaken  the  "old  time"  interest  in 
its  use.  Corn  pone  with  crisp  bacon,  hominy  and  fried  salt  pork 
are  just  as  toothsome  today  as  they  were  years  ago.  The  Phila- 
delphia Scrapple  and  Pannhaus,  both  old-time  Pennsylvania 
dishes,  Boston  brown  bread,  etc.,  are  appetizing,  inexpensive 
and  wholesome  foods,  and  many  others  too  numerous  to  mention 
here. 

The  story  of  the  origin  of  corn,  its  cultivation,  milling  com- 
mercial and  food  value,  is  most  attractively  told  by  the  United 
States  Department  of  Agriculture  in  "Farmers'  Bulletin  No. 
298,"  "Food  Value  of  Corn  and' Corn  Products."  This  bulletin 
should  be  found  in  every  home  in  this  country;  it  was  a  great 
inspiration  to  me. 

I  have  endeavored  to  incorporate  in  this  little  book  the 
simple,  inexpensive  and  substantial  dishes,  some  of  the  richer 
creations,  then  the  more  delicate  custards,  creams,  etc.,  finally 
trying  to  exhaust  the  possibilities  of  sweet  green  corn,  closing 
the  little  volume  with  Corn  Balls  and   Popcorn  Brittle.     In 


arranging  this  compilation  of  delectable  dishes,  I  trust  I  have 
succeeded  in  giving  to  the  housewives,  into  whose  hands  this 
book  may  fall,  some  valuable  information,  as  well  as  many 
simple,  wholesome  dishes,  which  will  aid  her  in  giving  variety 
to  the  daily  menus,  also  supplying  a  food  which  ranks  in  food 
value  with  wheat,  at  the  lowest  possible  cost. 

To  the  housewives  and  cooks  of  America  (the  greatest  corn 
growing  country  in  the  world),  I  most  graciously  dedicate  this 
little  volume,  "The  Corn  Cook  Book." 

Faithfully  yours, 
Mrs.  Elizabeth  O.  Hiller. 


HOW  TO  MEASURE  INGREDIENTS. 

It  is  absolutely  necessary  to  measure  all  ingredients  correctly 
to  insure  success  in  cooking. 

Satisfactory  results  have  been  attained,  occasionally,  by  those 
of  long  experience  and  good  judgment  in  measuring  by  sight; 
but  when  failures  are  made,  discouragement  follows  and,  too, 
habits  of  wastefulness  are  acquired  by  this  "hit  or  miss"  method. 
The  majority  of  people  need  a  definite  system  of  measurements 
which,  when  carefully  followed,  must  yield  good  results.  Gran- 
ite, glass  and  tin  measuring  cups,  divided  in  thirds  and  quarters, 
holding  one-half  pint,  table  and  teaspoons  of  regulation  size,  a 
common  case  knife,  all  of  which  may  be  purchased  at  any 
kitchen  furnishing  store,  are  ^mong  the  essential  articles  for 
measuring  correctly.  Flour,  meal,  powdered  sugar,  soda,  mus- 
tard, ginger,  baking  powder,  and  all  ingredients  which  stand  in 
boxes,  settle  and  sometimes  harden  in  lumps,  should-  be  crushed 
and  sifted  before  measuring.  A  cupful  is  a  half-pint  cup  filled, 
and  leveled  with  a  knife. 

TO   FILL  A  MEASURING  CUP.  A    TABLE   OR 
TEASPOON. 

Toss  the  dry  ingredients  lightly  into  a  measuring  cup,  heap 
it  slightly,  and  level  it  with  a  knife.  Shortening,  such  as  but- 
ter, lard  and  other  fats,  are  packed  solidly  into  both  cup  and 
spoon,  and  leveled  with  a  knife.  A  tablespoon  is  measured 
level.     A  teaspoon  is-  measured  level. 

In  measuring  with  either  tea  or  tablespoon,  dip  the  spoon 
into  the  material,  fill  it,  lift,  and  level  with  a  case  knife,  turn- 
ing sharp  edge  of  blade  toward  handle  of  spoon.  Divide  with 
the  knife,  lengthwise  of  bowl  of  spoon  for  a  half,  divide  the 
half  crosswise  for  a  quarter  and  the  quarter  crosswise  for  an 
eighth.  When  less  than  an  eighth  is  called  for  use  a  few 
grains.  A  tablespoon  of  correct  size  should  hold  three  level 
teaspoons.    A  teaspoon  should  hold  sixty  drops  of  liquid. 


Measuring  Liquids. 

A  cup  of  liquid  is  an  even  cupful  or  all  the  cup  will  hold. 
Tablespoon  and  teaspoonful  is  all  the  spoon  will  hold.  When 
the  following  ingredients  are  called  for  in  a  recipe,  measure 
the  dry,  fats  and  liquids  in  the  order  given,  thereby  making 
one  cup  serve  the  purpose  of  all. 

To  Combine  Mixtures. 

Use  an  earthen  mixing  bowl  of  ample  size  for  mixing  cakes, 
batters  and  doughs.  Mix  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Measure  all 
ingredients  correctly;  mix  and  sift  the  flour,  baking  powder, 
spices,  etc.,  before  measuring. 

Count  out  the  desired  number  of  eggs,  selecting  those  of 
uniform  size,  especially  if  a  cake  is  to  be  made.  Break  each 
egg  separately  over  a  cup;  that  there  may  be  no  loss  should  a 
stale  one  chance  to  be  one  of  the  number. 

Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks  when  so  specified.  Eggs 
are  beaten  three  degrees  of  lightness.  They  are  ''slightly 
beaten"  when  whites  and  yolks,  beaten  together,  will  run  from 
the  tines  of  a  fork.  They  are  ''lightly  beaten,"- when  beaten 
thick,  very  light  and  a  lemon  tint. 

Whites  are  beaten  alone  stifiE  and  dry. 

Measure  butter  and  liquid  as  suggested  in  the  foregoing. 
Having  everything  in  readiness,  the  mixing  and  baking  of 
these  mixtures  may  be  quickly  done. 

TIMELY  SUGGESTIONS. 

Milk  should  always  be  scalded  over  hot  water.  Water 
should  be  boiling  rapidly  when  cooking  corn  meal.  Pearl  or 
Granulated  Hominy.  The  water  should  be  seasoned  before 
adding  the  meal. 

Long,  slow  cooking  developes  the  flavor  of  corn  meal  or 
hominy. 

If  prepared  for  slicing  cold  or  for  frying,  pour  mixture 
into  a  granite  pan  previously  wet  with  cold  water,,  set  aside 
until  cold  and  solid. 


Turn  out  on  a  moulding  board  and  cut  in  half  inch  slices, 
saute  in  hot,  well  greased  spider  or  griddle. 

Tin  or  Russia  pans,  if  used  for  this  purpose,  will  rust  or 
darken  the  porridge. 

MOTIONS  USED  IN  MIXING  INGREDIENTS. 

'  Three  motions  are  considered  in  mixing  batters,  doughs 
and. other  ingredients,  namely:  stirring,  beating,  cutting  and 
folding. 

STIRRING,  is  a  rotary  motion  ordinarily  used  in  all  cook- 
ery.    It  is  to  thoroughly  mix  the  ingredients. 

BEATING,  is  turning  the  ingredients  over  and  over  to 
thoroughly  mix,  and  at  the  same  time  incorporating  air  into 
the  mixture.  With  each  beating  motion  the  spoon  is  brought 
constantly  in  contact  with  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  bringing  the 
contents  over  the  top  folding  them  in  again.  Beating  is  used 
in  combination  with  stirring. 

CUTTING  and  FOLDING,  is  introducing  one  ingre- 
dient into  a  mixture,  one  or  the  other  being  the  lighter  of  the 
two.  This  is  accomplished  with  the  cake  spoon,  making  vertical 
cuts  downward  and  turning  mixture  over,  allowing  the  bowl 
of  the  spoon  to  bring  the  contents  of  the  bottom  of  the  dish 
over  the  top  then  folding  them  in  again.  The  spoon  turns 
entirely  around  in  one's  hand  in  making  this  motion.  Repeat 
this  motion  alternately  with  beating  until  mixtures  are 
thoroughly  blended.  Lightly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  are  cut  and 
folded  into  cake  mixtures,  etc. 

NOTE. 

THE  FOREGOING  INSTRUCTIONS  MUST  BE  CAREFULLY  FOL- 
LOWED; THE  INGREDIENTS  CALLED  FOR  IN  THE  RECIPES 
MUST  BE  USED,  IF  YOU.  WOULD  HAVE  SUCCESS  IN  USING 
THE  RECIPES  INCORPORATED  IN  THIS  LITTLE  BOOK. 


10 


PART  I 


'Aye,  the  Corn,  the  Golden  Corn, 

Within  whose  yellow  heart  there  is 
Of  life  and  strength  for  all  the  nation!' 


HASTY  PUDDING. 

(Corn   Meal  Mush.) 

Put  one  quart  of  boiling  water  in  top  of  the  double  boiler, 
add  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  salt,  mix  two  cups  yellow  or 
white  corn  meal,  and  one  tablespoon  flour,  with  two  cups  of 
cold  milk,  stir  this  slowly  into  the  boiling  water,  boil  five  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly,  then  place  vessel  over  hot  water,  let 
cook  an  hour  or  two,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  mush  from 
lumping.  The  longer  it  steams  the  more  delicious  the  flavor, 
serve  with  milk  or  cream.  If  white  and  yellow  corn  meal  is 
made  into  "Hasty  Pudding"  in  separate  vessels,  then  packed  in 
alternate  layers  in  a  brick-shaped  mold,  then  sliced  cold  and 
served  with  cream,  it  makes  a  very  attractive  dish. 

FRIED  HASTY  PUDDING. 

(Corn  Meal  Mush.) 

Prepare  as  corn  meal  mush;  pack  solidly  in  a  wet  granite 
brick-shaped  bread  pan;  when  cold,  cut  in  three-quarter  inch 
slices ;  either  dip  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot  fat  or  fry  without  dip- 
ping; brown  richly  on  one  side,  then  turn  and  brown  on  the 
other.  These  slices  may  be  dipped  in  egg  and  fine  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fried  in  deep,  hot  fat.     Serve  with  crisp  bacon. 

11 


CORN  MEAL  "DABS"  OR  DODGERS. 

2  cups  fine   white  corn  meal  J-2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar  3  tablespoons  rich  milk 

2  eggs  Boiling   water 
1  teaspoon  butter  or  lard 

Process:  Mix  and  sift  corn  meal,  salt  and  sugar;  add  suf- 
ficient boiling  water  to  wet  the  meal,  but  not  to  make  it  soft ; 
add  butter  and  milk ;  when  cold  add  the  yolks,  beaten  very  light ; 
then  cut  and  fold  in  the  whites  beaten  stiff.  The  batter  should 
drop  readily  from  the  spoon,  but  not  thin  enough  to  pour  nor 
stiff  enough  to  be  scraped  from  the  bowl.  Shape  in  oval  cakes, 
and  lay  in  a  hissing,  hot,  well-greased  dripping  pan,  and  bake  in 
a  very  hot  oven  until  brown  and  puffed ;  split,  butter  and  serve 
with  fried  salt  pork  with  cream  sauce. 

HOE  CAKE. 

1  cup  white  corn  meal  H  teaspoon   salt 

1  teaspoon  maple  sugar  or  syrup       Scalded  milk  or  boiling  water 

Process:  Mix  the  first  three  ingredients  and  pour  over 
them  sufficient  scalded  milk  or  boiling  water  to  make  the 
mixture  thick  enough  not  to  spread,  w^hen  put  on  the  griddle. 
Grease  a  hissing  hot  griddle  with  fat  salt  pork;  drop  mixture 
from  a  large  spoon,  pat  to  one  half  inch  thickness,  cook  slowly 
until  well  browned,  put  a  small  bit  of  butter  on  top  of  each 
cake,  turn  and  brown  on  top  side.  Add  more  fat  to  griddle 
if  necessary.  It  will  do  them  no  harm  to  cook  a  long  time, 
if  they  are  not  allowed  to  scorch.  Serve,  when  thoroughly 
cooked,  with  butter  and  Syrup. 

CORN   DODGERS. 

1  quart   corn  meal  1  teaspoon   salt 

2  tablespoons     maple     sugar     or      2  tablespoons   lard 

syrup  Scalded  milk  and  water 

Process:  Add  salt,  sugar  and  lard  to  corn  meal;  mix  well, 
and  pour  over  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a  batter  to  drop 
from  tip  of  spoon;  they  should  be  an  inch  thick  in  the  center 

12 


and  flatten  slightly  into  oval  cakes.  Beat  the  batter  five 
minutes  before  dropping  them  into  a  hot,  well  greased  dripping 
pan.  The  maple  sugar  or  syrup  improves  the  flavor  and  makes 
the  dodgers  brown  more  richly. 

INDIAN  BANNOCKS. 

1  cup  corn  meal  2  cups  scalded  milk 

1  teaspoon  maple  syrup  or  sugar       2  eggs 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Process:  Add  corn  meal  to  scalded  milk,  add  syrup,  and 
salt;  cool  and  add  yolks  beaten  very  lightly,  then  the  whites 
beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  shallow  pudding  dish,  well  greased,  in 
very  hot  oven,  twenty-five  minutes.      Serve  in  pudding  dish. 


GRIDDLE  JOHNNY  CAKES. 

2  cups     yellow     or     white    corn       1  tablespoon    sugar 

meal  Boiling   water 

1  teaspoon    salt  Cold  milk 

Process:  Add  salt  to  corn  meal,  pour  on  boiling  water  to 
form  a  thick  drop  batter,  add  maple  s^rup  and  sufficient  cold 
milk  to  make  a  thick  pour  batter.  Drop  by  tablespoons  on 
a  well  greased  hot  griddle  and  cook  as  griddle  cakes.  Serve 
immediately. 


INDIAN  MEAL  FLAPJACKS. 

2  cups  yellow  corn  meal  1  tablespoon    sugar 

^  teaspoon  salt  Scalded  milk 

2  eggs  Cold  milk 

1  teaspoon  butter 

Process:  Mix  and  sift  corn  meal,  salt  and  sugar,  add 
suflficient  scalded  milk  to  moisten  meal,  add  butter  when  cool, 
add  eggs  well  beaten,  and  cold  milk  enough  to  make  a  thin 
batter.  Cook  on  well  greased  hissing  hot  griddle  as  griddle 
cakes. 

13 


CORN  PONE. 

To  one  quart  of  white  corn  meal  (southern  milled)  add 
one  and  one-half  teaspoons  salt,  one  tablespoon  melted  lard, 
and  sufficient  scalded  milk  and  boiling  water  (equal  parts)  to 
make  a  mixture  that  can  be  molded  with^the  hands  into  oblong 
cakes  six  inches  long,  three  inches  wide  and  one  inch  thick; 
they  should  be  thin  on  the  edges  and  ends.  Before  molding 
them  the  mixture  should  be  worked  well  with  the  hands,  then 
shape  cakes,  place  them  on  a  hot  well  greased  tin  sheet,  brush  over 
with  melted  butter  or  milk  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes  in  a 
hot  oven.  When  done,  split  each  one,  butter  and  lay  a  thin 
slice  or  two  of  crisp  bacon  on  each.     Serve  immediately. 


POLENTA. 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  teaspoon   salt 

1  cup  yellow  corn  flour  5  tablespoons   grated    cheese 

2  cups  cold  water 

Process:  Mix  the  flour  with  cold  water  and  stir  slowly 
into  boiling  water,  add  salt,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture 
begins  to  boil,  then  occasionally;  let  cook  slowly  over  a  slow 
fire  for  one  hour.  When  half  cooked  add  butter  and  cheese. 
Serve  hot  with  sauce  given  below.  This  mixture  may  be  turned 
into  a  shallow  pan  previously  wet  with  cold  water,  chilled, 
then  cut  in  squares,  dipped  in  flour,  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fried 
in  deep  fat.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 


MUSHROOM  SAUCE  FOR  POLENTA. 

Slice  six  mushrooms  (if  dried  mushrooms  are  used  soak  them 
several  hours  in  cold  water),  chop  fine  one  small  onion  and  one 
clove  of  garlic.  Cook  mushrooms,  onion  and  garlic  in  one 
half  cup  butter,  until  a  gold  brown,  add  one-half  cup  brown 
stock  or  hot  water  in  which  one  teaspoon  beef  extract  is  melted, 
simmer   five   minutes,    strain   and   serve. 

14 


INDIAN  MEAL  BLOCKS. 

Follow  recipe  for  Hasty  Pudding.  Turn  mixture  into  a 
shallow  granite  dripping  pan,  previously  wet  with  cold  water. 
When  cold,  turn  out  on  molding  board,  cut  in  uniform  blocks 
tw^o  inches  square,  dip  each  one  in  flour,  egg  and  cracker  meal, 
place  in  croquette  basket  and  fry  a  rich  brown  in  deep  fat.  Serve 
as  a  vegetable  with  roast  pork,  pork  tenderloin,  etc. 


CORN   MEAL  GRUEL. 

2  tablespoons  corn  meal  ^  cup   milk 

%  teaspoon  salt  2  cups    boiling  water 

Process:  Mix  corn  meal,  salt  and  milk,  add  boiling  water, 
stirring  constantly  until  mixture  is  free  from  lumps.  Pour 
into  a  double  boiler  and  cook  over  hot  water  two  and  a  half 
hours. 

PANNHAUS. 

2  quarts  boiling   water  2  cups  corn  meal 

J-4  pound   liver   sausage  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup   buckwheat   flour 

Process:  Put  two  quarts  of  water  in  an  iron  pot;  place 
on  range,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  add  buckwheat  flour, 
■mixed  wnth  one  cup  of  corn  meal ;  remove  the  casing  from 
sausage,  break  into  small  pieces  and  add  to  porridge,  stirring 
constantly  that  mixture  may  be  smooth;  add  remaining  corn 
meal  slowly,  continue  stirring;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Remove  pot  to  back  of  range  and  simmer  two  hours.  Pour 
into  granite  pan,  previously  wet  with  cold  water.  When  cold 
slice  and  cook  as  Fried  Corn  Meal  Mush. 


PHILADELPHIA  SCRAPPLE. 

Have  your  butcher  clean   a   pig's  head,    and    split    it    in 
halves.     Put  ft  into  stock  pot  and  cover  with  boiling  water; 

15 


cook  until  meat  falls  from  the  bones.  Remove  the  meat, 
strain  the  liquor  and  set  aside  to  cool ;  remove  most  of  the 
fat,  all  gristle  and  bones;  chop  meat  fine.  Remove  fat  from 
liquor,  place  on  range,  bring  to  boiling  point,  add  meat  and 
one  pound  of  beef  liver,  previously  parboiled  ten  minutes,  and 
cut  in  very  small  pieces;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage 
to  taste.  Add  one  cup  of  buckwheat,  mixed  with  one  cup  of 
cornmeal,  letting  it  slip  through  the  fingers  of  the  left  hand 
while  you  stir  briskly  with  the  right;  thicken  with  cornmeal 
until  mixture  is  the  consistency  of  corn  meal  mush ;  stir  until 
free  from  lumps.  Remove  to  back  of  range  and  simmer  two  or 
three  hours.  Use  a  heavy  vessel  to  cook  the  mixture  in.  This 
lessens  the  danger  of  scorching. 

Pour  mixture  into  brick  shaped  bread  pans  previously  wet 
with  cold  water.     When  cold,  cut  in  half-inch  slices  and  saute' 
in  a  well  greased  hot  spider;  brown  on  both  sides.     Serve  for 
breakfast  or  luncheon.     This   is   an    inexpensive    dish,    and    is 
highly  nutritious,  and  will  keep  several  weeks  in  cold  weather. 

HULLED   CORN. 

Tie  a  quart  of  hard  wood  ashes  (oak  ashes  are  preferable) 
in  a  flannelette  bag,  and  put  it  in  a  large  kettle,  add  three 
gallons  of  cold  water.  Let  it  boil  and  become  lye.  When 
the  right  stage  of  boiling  has  been  reached  water  will  look 
black. 

Put  into  this  four  quarts  of  hard  yellow  or  white  corn,  and 
boil  until  the  hulls  have  all  started  to  loosen.  Stir  it  well  with 
a  wooden  mush  paddle,  then  pour  it  into  a  large  dishpan  of 
cold  water  and  rub  with  the  hands  thoroughly  to  loosen  and 
remove  all  the  hulls.  Change  the  water  six  times,  washing 
and  rubbing  the  kernels  until  they  are  white  and  clean. 

Soak  in  cold  water  over  night;  in  the  morning  drain,  add 
fresh  cold  water  to  cover;  and  simmer  four  hours  or  until 
corn  Is  tender;  skim  off  hulls  and  scum  from  water  when 
necessary,  and  add  freshly  boiled  water  as  It  evaporates  during 
simmering;  drain  and  serve  hot  or  cold  with  pepper,  salt  and 
butter,  or  with  cream  and  sugar. 

16 


17 


PART  II 


"Called  the  young  men  and  the  maidens 
To  the  harvest  of  the  cornfields, 
To  the  husking  of  the  maize-ears.'' 

BOSTON   BROWN  BREAD. 

1  Clip   corn  meal  1  teaspoon   salt 

1  cup  rye  meal  ^4  cup  N.  O.  molasses 

1  cup  Graham  flour  2  cups    sour   milk,    or    1^    cups 

2y2  teaspoons  soda  of  sweet  milk  or  water 

Process:  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the 
molasses  and  milk,  beat  thoroughly,  turn  into  well  buttered 
molds,  and  steam  three  and  one-half  hours.  The  covers  should 
be  buttered  before  being  placed  on  molds,  and  tied  down  with 
a  string  if  they  do  not  lock.  Remove  covers  when  done,  and 
set  molds  in  oven  to  dry  off  top  of  loaves. 

BOSTON   BROWN   BREAD   WITH   FRUIT. 

Follow  recipe  for  Boston  Brown  Bread,  adding  three- 
fourths  cup  seeded  and  shredded  raisins,  add  these  to  the  dry 
ingredients,  then  continue  as  in  foregoing  recipe. 

STEAMED  BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  WITH 
CREAM. 

1  cup    rye   meal  i^  cup   N.  O.  molasses 

1  cup  corn  meal  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  IV^  cups  thin  cream 

Process:  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  add  molasses, 
yolks  of  eggs  beaten  very  light,  the  cream  and  lastly 
fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Pour  mixture 
into  butter  mold,  steam  three  hours,  then  bake  one  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven, 

18 


JOLLY  JOE. 

2  cups  corn  meal  2  cups  sour  milk 

2  cups   flour  1  teaspoon   soda 

1  teaspoon   salt  2  tablespoons   hot   water 

1  cup  N.  O.  molasses 

Process:  Mix  and  sift  corn  meal,  flour  and  salt;  add 
molasses,  sour  milk,  beat  thoroughly,  then  add  soda  dissolved 
in  hot  water.  Turn  into  well  buttered  mold,  cover  closely 
and  steam  six  hours. 

Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  seeded  raisins  may  be  added  to  this 
mixture,  w^hich  is  a  great  addition  if  you  like  the  fruit  brow^n 
bread. 

CORN  FLOUR  BREAD. 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  compressed  yeast  cake 
2  tablespoons    lard  Va.  cup  lukewarm  water 
4  tablespoons   sugar                              3  cups   corn   flour 

2  teaspoons   salt  5  cups  white  flour 

Process:  Put  lard,  sugar  and  salt  in  mixing  bowl;  pour 
on  gradually  hot  water.  When  luke  warm  add  yeast  cakq  dis- 
solved in  warm  water.  Sift  corn  flour  with  four  cups  flour, 
add  the  fifth  cup  if  needed,  turn  on  well  floured  board,  knead 
dough  until  smooth  and  elastic  to  touch.  Return  to  bowl, 
cover,  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  (68°  to  70°  F.).  When 
double  in  bulk,  cut  down  and  knead  slightly,  without  remov- 
ing from  bowl;  set  to  raise  again;  when  double  in  bulk,  turn 
on  to  a  well  floured  board,  knead  slightly,  divide  dough  into 
two  equal  parts,  shape  into  loaves.  Let  rise  again  and  bake 
one  hour  in  a  "bread  oven"  (360°  to  400°  F.).  When  baked 
remove  from  pans  to  cake-cooler,  cover  until  cool,  when  it 
will  be  ready  for  use.  This  is  a  most  delicious  and  whole- 
some bread. 

OLD  FASHIONED  BAKED  BROWN  BREAD. 

2  cups  boiling  water  2  compressed  yeast  cakes 

4  cups   corn  meal  ^  cup  lukewarm  water 

2  cups  rye  meal  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  molasses  Hot  milk  or   water 

Process:  Stir  boiling  water  into  corn  meal.  When  luke  warm 

19 


add  rye  meal,  molasses  and  yeast  cakes  dissolved  in  hike  warm 
water,  add  salt  and  sufficient  warm  water  or  milk  to  make 
firm  dough;  beat  until  well  mixed  and  smooth.  Turn  mix- 
ture into  a  well  buttered  iron  Brown  Bread  pan;  set  to  rise 
in  a  warm  place;  when  light,  bake  in  a  slow  oven  two  hours 
and  a  half.     Cover  vessel  first  half  hour  of  cooking. 

CORN  BREAD. 

.    ISIew    Orleans  Recipe. 

2  cups  white  corn  meal  2  tablespoons   melted   butter 

?/2  cup  flour  2  cups  sour  milk 

y2  cup  molasses  or  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

i  teaspoon   salt  ■  2  eggs 

Process:  Mix  and  sift  corn  meal,  flour  and  salt,  add 
molasses  and  butter,  the  sour  milk,  and  eggs  beaten  very  light, 
then  the  soda  dissolved  in  two  tablespoons  hot  water.  Beat 
mixture  thoroughly;  l?ake  slowly  forty-five  minutes  in  a  well 
greased,  not  very  shallow  pan. 

SWEET  CORN  BREAD. 

l-)4  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup   corn   meal  2  eggs 

J4  cup   melted   butter  1  cup  milk 

]?.  cup  sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Process:  Sift  flour,  corn  meal,  salt  and  baking  powder 
together.  Add  sugar  and  melted  butter,  add  milk  and  beat 
batter  thoroughly.  Beat  the  e^gs  thick  and  light,  fold  care- 
fully into  first  mixture.  Turn  into  well  buttcrc-d  shallow  pan, 
bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  This  mi.tture  may  be, 
baked  in  hissing  hot  iron  gem  cups. 

APPLE  JOHNNY  CAKE. 

2  cups  white  corn  meal  1  teaspoon  cream   tartar 

2  tablespoons    sugar  W^  cups  milk 

V2  teaspoon   salt  3  tart  apples  pared  and  sliced 

1  teaspoon   soda  Cinnamon  and  sugar 

Process:  Mix  the  first  six  ingredients  in  the  order  given, 
beat  thoroughly,  add  apples,  mix  well.  Pour  into  a  well  but^ 
tered  shallow  cake  pan  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oyen. 


DAINTY  SPOON  CORN  BREAD. 

^4  cup  corn  meal  J  2  teaspoon   salt 

i  teaspoon    butter  3  eggs 

2  teaspoons  sugar  2  cups  scalded  milk 

Process:  Stir  meal  into  scalded  milk,  add  salt  and  let 
cook  until  mixture  is  slightly  thickened,  add  butter  and  sugar; 
add  yolks  beaten  very  lightly,  lastly  cut  and  fold  in  the  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  buttered  pudding  dish,  bake 
thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Serve  from  baking  dish  with 
spoon. 

SOUTHERN  SPOON  CORN  BREAD. 

Pour  two  cups  boiling  water  over  one  cup  corn  meal,  cook 
five  minutes,  stirring  continually.  Add  one  tablespoon  butter, 
tw^o  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  salt;  beat 
thoroughly,  pour  into  a  well  greased  baking  dish  and  bake 
thirty-five  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Serve  from  trhe  dish  in  which 
it  is  baked  with  a  tablespoon. 

VIRGINIA  SPOON  CORN  BREAD. 

y^  cup  granulated  cooked  hominy      3  eggs 

1  teaspoon   salt  •  V/,  cups  milk 

2  tablespoons  lard  2  cups  corn  meal . 

2  tablespoons  buttqr  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Process:  Add, shortening  and  salt  to  hot  hominy,  add  corn 
meal  sifted  with  baking  powder,  alternately  with  milk;  mix 
well.  Beat  eggs  very  light,  add  to  first  mixture  and  beat 
vigorously.  Pour  into  a  wd\  buttered  pudding  dish,  bake  in 
hot  oven  forty-five  minutes.     Serve  in  baking  dish  with  spoon. 

OLD  VIRGINIA  BATTER  BREAD. 

2  cups   corn    meal  i^  cup  sugar 

4  cups   scalded  milk  3  eggs 

1  teaspoon   salt 

Process:  Stir  corn  meal  into  scalded  milk  and  cook  to  a 
mush,  add  salt  and  sugar,  cool;  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  very 

21 


light,  cut  and  fold  in  whites  beaten  stiff,  melt  two  tablespoons 
butter  or  lard  in  baking  pan,  turn  in  mixture  and  bake  forty- 
five  minutes  in  a  bread  oven  (360°  to  400°  F.)- 

RICH  CORN  CAKE. 

3yi  cup  corn  meal  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  white  flour  1  cup  thin  cream 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  eggs 

4  tablespoons  sugar  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Process:  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  cream 
slowly,  beating  continually,  add  melted  butter  and  eggs  beaten 
very  light.  Pour  mixture  into  a  shallow  well  buttered  pan 
and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

WHITE  CORN  MEAL  CAKE. 

4  tablespoons   butter  1%  cups   flour 

%  cup   sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

VA  cups  milk  •  1  teaspoon  salt 

1J4  cups  white  corn  meal  Whites  3  eggs 

Process:  Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  sift 
the  dry  ingredients  together  twice  and  add  to  first  mixture 
alternately  with  milk.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff;  cut  and 
fold  them  into  mixture.  Bake  in  shallow  buttered  pan  twenty- 
five  minutes. 


SPONGE  CORN  CAKE.     No.   1. 

^  cup   corn  meal  2  egg  yolks  beaten  light 

1  cup  flour  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

y2  teaspoon   salt  1  cup   rich   sour  milk 

V2  teaspoon   soda  White  1   egg  beaten  stiff 
5  tablespoons    sugar 

Process:  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  add  butter, 
yolks  well  beaten  and  sour  milk;  lastly  fold  in  the  white  of 
egg  beaten  stifF.  Bake  in  well  greased  shallow  pan  in  hot 
oven  thirty  minutes. 

22 


SPONGE  CORN   CAKE.     No.  2. 

1  cup  corn  meal  1  tablespoon   melted   butter 

Yi  cup  flour  4  tablespoons   sugar 

Yi  teaspoon   salt  2  ^^-g  yolks 

Vi  teaspoon    soda  1  white   of  egg 

1  teaspoon  cream  tartar  1^4  cups  sweet  milk 

Process:  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  add  butter,  egg 
yolks  and  milk;  mix  well  and  lastly  cut  and  fold  in  the  white 
of  egg  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  well  greased  brick  shaped  bread 
pan  thirty  minutes. 

SPIDER  CORN  CAKE. 

^  cup  corn  meal  J^  cup  sweet  milk 

34  cup    flour  1  tgg  well  beaten 

2  tablespoons    sugar  ^  cup  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon    salt  2  tablespoons   melted  butter 

1  teaspoon    soda  Yi  cup   sweet  milk 

Process:  Sift  together,  corn  meal,  flour,  sugar,  salt  and 
soda.  Add  half  cup  sweet  milk  and  egg  well  beaten.  Add 
sour  milk  and  butter.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  pour  into  well 
buttered  hot  spider.  Pour  half  cup  sweet  milk  carefully  over 
the  top  of  corn  cake.  Cook  ten  minutes  on  top  of  range  and 
twenty  minutes  in  the  oven. 

THIN  CORN  CAKE. 

1  cup  yellow  corn  meal  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Y4  cup   sugar  1  tgg 

Y2  teaspoon   salt  1  cup   milk 

1  cup    flour  1  tablespoon   melted   butter 

Process:     Mix  in  order  given  and  bake  in  a  well  greased 

shallow,   square   pan,  spreading  the  mixture   thick   enough   to 
half  fill  the  pan. 

MOLASSES  CORN  CAKE. 

1  cup  corn  meal  14  cup  N.   O.  molasses 

Ya,  cup  flour  ^  cup  thin  cream 

VA  teaspoons    baking  powder  1  egg    lightly    beaten 

1  teaspoon    salt 

Process:     Sift  the   dry  ingredients   together,   add   molasses 

23 


to  cream,  mix  well  and  add  to  dry  ingredients,  beat  thoroughly, 
add  egg,  beat  again,  and  bake  in  buttered  shallow  pan  in  hot 
oven  twenty  minutes. 

CORN  MUFFINS. 

1  cup  yellow  corn  meal  4  tablespoons   butter 

1  cup   flour  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

4  tablespoons  sugar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1J4  cups  sweet  milk  2  eggs   beaten   separately 

Process:  Cream  the  butter;  add  sugar  gradually  to  lightly 
beaten  yolks;  sift  together  corn  meal,  flour,  salt  and  baking 
powder,  and  add  alternately  with  milk.  Fold  in  the  lightly 
beaten  whites.  Bake  in  hot  buttered  iron  gem  cups,  twenty- 
five  minutes. 

CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS  WITH  RICE. 

%  cup   scalded   milk  2  tablespoons  sugar 

5-2  cup  corn  meal  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

^  cup   hot   cooked    rice  1  tablespoon   melted  butter 

Yi  cup   flour  1  egg 

1  teaspoon   salt 

Process:  Pour  scalded  milk  on  corn  meal,  let  stand  five 
minutes.  Add  hot  rice  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  tips  of 
fingers,  add  flour  sifted  with  salt,  and  baking  powder,  sugar 
and  melted  butter,  the  yolk  of  egg  beaten  light;  lastly  cut 
and  fold  in  the  white  beaten  stii¥.  Bake  in  well  buttered  hot, 
iron  gem  cups,  twenty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

CORN   MEAL   SPONGE   MUFFINS. 

Yi  cup  corn  meal  4  tablespoons   sugar 

1  cup  scalded  miik  Ya  cup   flour 

1  tablespoon   butter  2  teaspoons   baking  powder 

Y2  teaspoon    salt  2  eggs 

Process:  Add  corn  meal  to  scalded  milk,  add  butter  and 
salt;  let  cook  until  thickened,  cool;  add  sugar  and  eggs  beaten 
very  light,  flour  sifted  with  baking 'powder;  beat  two  minutes. 
Pour  into  hot  buttered  iron  gem  cups  and  bake  twenty  minutes 
in  hot  oven. 

24 


CREAM  CORN  MEAL  GEMS. 

lA  cup  corn  meal  H  teaspoon   salt 

1  cup  flour  34  cup  cream 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  Qgg,  lightly  beaten 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Process:  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients;  add  cream 
gradually,  the  egg,  beat  well ;  bake  in  buttered  gem  cups  twenty- 
five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  If  a  plainer  gem  is  desired,  use 
milk  in  place  of  cream  and  add  one  tablespoon  melted  butter.' 

POPPETS. 

1  cup  corn  meal  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

1  cup    flour  4  teaspoons   baking   powder 

1  tablespoon    sugar  2  cups  milk 

1  teaspoon   salt  1  egg 

Process:  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  butter,  egg 
beaten  very  light,  and  added  to  milk;  stir  into  first  mix- 
ture and  beat  batter  three  minutes.  Pour  into  hissing  hot  well 
greased  gem  cups  and  bake  in  hot  oven  thirty  minutes. 

CORN   MEAL  POPOVERS. 

2  cups  scalded  milk  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  corn  meal  3  eggs  beaten  very  light 

1  tablespoon   butter 

Process:  Stir  corn  meal  into  hot  milk,  add  butter  and  salt, 
cool  slightly  and  add  eggs,  beat  mixture  two  minutes  and  turn 
into  hissing  hot  well  greased  iron  gem  cups;  bake  thirty-five 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven;  strongest  heat  must  come  from  bottom. 

"PETE'S"  CORN  MEAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

2  cups   corn  meal  '  Ij/  teaspoons   soda 

1  cup    flour  2^A  cups  buttermilk   or  loppered 

2  eggs    well   beaten  milk 
1  teaspoon    salt 

Process:  Mix  and  sift  corn  meal,  flour  and  salt,  add  eggs, 
mix   well.       Dissolve     soda     in    milk;    add    to    first     mixture. 

25  • 


Beat  thoroughly  and  fry  at  once.  If  allowed  to  stand 
too  long  mixture  thickens;  may  be  thinned  by  adding  more 
milk.  The  sour  milk  must  be  rich.  Butter  milk  is  best  for 
this  purpose. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

2  cups   buckwheat  Y^  compressed  yeast  cake 

5/2  cup  corn  meal  5^2  cup  lukewarm  water 

1  teaspoon   salt  2  cups  warm  water 
4  tablespoons  molasses  1  teaspoon   soda 

Process:  Sift  buckwheat,  corn  meal  and  salt  together,  add 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  half  cup  warm  water,  add  molasses  and 
water;  beat  thoroughly.  Cover,  set  to  rise  over  night  in  warm 
place  (70°  F. ).  In  the  morning  beat  briskly,  add  soda,  beat 
again  and  fry  on  hot  griddle. 

FLANNEL  CAKES. 

2  cups  scalded  milk  y2  teaspoon  salt 

y2  compressed  yeast  cake  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

y2  cup  corn  meal  1  egg 

\y2  cups   white  flour 

Process:  Set  the  following  mixture  to  rise  over  night; 
scald  meal  with  milk,  add  butter  and  flour;  when  mixture 
is  lukewarm  add  yeast  dissolved  in  one-fourth  cup  of  luke- 
warm water,  cover  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  (68°  F.). 
In  the  morning  add  salt,  and  egg;  yolk  and  white  beaten 
separately.     Cook   as    griddle   cakes. 

NORFOLK  WAFFLES. 

V/i  cups  boiling  water  Zy^  teaspoons    baking   powder 

V2  cup  corn  meal  \y2  teaspoons   salt 

1^/2  cups  milk  3  eggs 

3  cups   flour  2  tablespoons  butter 
3  tablespoons    sugar 

Process:  Cook  corn  meal  in  water  twenty  minutes;  add 
milk,  and  dry  ingredients  sifted,  yolks  of  eggs  lightly  beaten, 
butter,  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stifF.  Cook  in  hot  well 
greased  waflle  iron;   serve  immediately. 

26 


HOMINY  PORRIDGE. 

4  cups    freshly   boiled    water  1  cnp  grannlatcd  hominy 

Yi.  tablespoon    salt 

Process:  Put  boiling  water  in  double  boiler,  add  salt,  and 
stir  briskly  while  adding  hominy;  cook  one  hour,  or  more, 
stirring  thoroughly  occasionally.     Serve  with  cream. 


STEAMED    PEARL   HOMINY    (SAMP). 

Stir  one  cup  of  Pearl  hominy  into  two  quarts  boiling  water, 
boil  briskly  five  minutes,  then  remove  vessel  to  back  of  range 
and  simmer  eight  hours.  Serve  as  a  vegetable,  seasoned  w^ith 
pepper,  salt  and  butter,  or  serve  hot  or  cold  with  cream. 

BALTIMORE  SAMP. 

Cover  the  Pearl  hominy  with  boiling  water,  let  cook  five 
or  six  hours,  adding  boiling  water  when  necessary.  Then  drain 
and  cover  with  more  boiling  water;  let  cook  over  a  very  slow 
fire  until  tender,  all  day  if  necessary;  be  careful  that  it  does 
not  scorch.  When  done,  season  to  taste  with  salt;  serve  with 
cream  and  sugar,  or,  if  served  as  a  vegetable,  reheat  two  cups 
in  two  cups  of  cream  sauce,  to  which  may  be  added  three  table- 
spoons of  grated  cheese  or  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
parsley. 

HOMINY  WAFFLES. 

1  cup    hominy  porridge    packed      3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

solidly  5  teaspoons        baking       powder 

2y2  cups  flour  34  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  3  eggs   beaten  thick  and   light 

Process:  Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together;  add 
porridge,  mix  thoroughly,  add  butter;  pour  milk  into  beaten 
eggs  and  add  to  first  mixture;  beat  until  free  from  lumps;  fry 
in  hot,  well  greased  waffle  iron,  allowing  three  cook's  spoons 
to  each  waffle. 

27 


HOMINY  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

1  cup   hominy   porridge  1  cup   sweet  milk 

2  cups  flour  3  tablespoons   cream 
5  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg 

>>4  teaspoon   salt 

Process:  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together;  add 
cold  porridge  and  mix  thoroughly  to  prevent  mixture  from 
being  lumpy;  beat  egg  very  light;  add  milk  and  cream  to  egg 
and  combine  with  first  mixture ;  beat  thoroughly  and  fry  as 
griddle  cakes. 

HOMINY  MUFFINS. 

1  cup  porridge  packed   solidly  yi  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  flour  %  cup  milk 

2  teaspoons   sugar  2  tablespoons   melted   butter 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  eggs  beaten  very  light 

Process:  Sift  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder  together, 
add  porridge  and  mix  well,  add  melted  butter  and  milk,  beat 
until  free  from  lumps.  Add  lightly  beaten  eggs.  Bake  twenty 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  in  hot  well  buttered  iron  gem  cups. 

GRANULATED  HOMINY  CRESCENTS. 

Prepare  a  rule  of  "Hominy  Porridge,"  pour  into  a  shallow 
granite  dripping  pan  to  the  depth  of  one-third  inch,  chill.  Then 
turn  out  on  a  molding  board  and  shape  with  crescent  cutter. 
Dip  each  crescent  into  flour,  egg,  and  cracker  meal,  lay  in 
croquette  basket  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  on  soft  brown 
paper,  sprinkle  each  on  top  side  with  finely  chopped  parsley,  and 
serve  with  the  game  course.  This  mixture  should  not  be 
turned  into  either  a  tin  or  Russia  dripping  pan,  as  it  will  show 
rust  spots.      It  may  be  cut  in  any  desired  shape. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES. 

Shape  into  balls,  one  quart  of  w^ll  cooked,  highly  seasoned 
fine  hominy.     Roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  dip  in  one  egg,  slightly 

28 


beaten  and  diluted  with  two  tablespoons  cold  water,  then  again 
in  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  on  brown  paper, 
and  serve  as  a  vegetable  with  cheese  sauce;  or  sweeten  the 
mixture  to  taste,  flavor  with  grated  lemon  peel,  shape,  crumb 
and  fry;  serve  as  dessert  with  maple  syrup. 

GRANULATED  HOMINY  CRUSTS. 

1  Clip   cold  boiled  fine  hominy  1  egg 

2  tablespoons  sugar  Flour,  salt  and  milk 

Process:  Cook  the  hominy  in  double  boiler,  in  milk  enough 
to  make  a  thin  batter  and  until  the  hominy  is  very  soft.  Add 
salt  to  taste,  egg  well  beaten,  and  sufficient  flour  to  hold  mix- 
ture together.  Spread  in  well  buttered  pan  one-third  inch 
thick.  Bake  in  hot  oven.  Split  and  serve  with  butter  and 
maple  syrup. 

HOMINY  DROP  CAKES, 

2  cups    hot    well    Seasoned    fine       1  tablespoon  water 
hominy  2  eggs 

Process:  Add  water  to  hominy.  Beat  the  yolks  very 
light;  add  to  first  mixture;  add  whites  beaten  stiii.  Drop 
mixture  by  tablespoonfuls  on  well  buttered  tin  sheets  and  bake 
a  rich  brown  in  hot  oven.     Serve  with  maple  syrup. 

GNOCCHI  AU  GRATIN. 

1>2  cups    fine    hominy    or    corn  1  cup   grated   cheese 

meal  14  cup  cracker  crumbs 

1  cup  milk  3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

V/j  tablespoons    butter  ]/2  teaspoon    salt 

Thin    white    sauce     (about     1^  Few  grains  cayenne 
cups) 

Process:  Scald  milk  in  double  boiler,  add  butter  and  salt, 
and  sift  in  slowly  the  hominy  or  corn  meal,  stirring  constantly. 
Cook  until  mixture  becomes  a  stiff  paste.  Mold  mixture  into 
quennelles  with  two  teaspoons,  poach  these  in  simmering 
chicken  stock  or  water.     Drain  and  arrange  them  in  a  shallow 

29 


baking  dish  in  a  layer,  cover  with  white  sauce  and  a  thin  layer 
of  grated  cheese,  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Continue  with  layers 
until  all  materials  are  used,  having  a  thin  layer  of  sauce  and 
cheese  on  top.  Butter  the  cracker  crumbs  and  sprinkle  over 
the  top.  Bake  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Bechamel  Sauce 
may  be  used  in  place  of  white  sauce,  making  this  dish  still 
more  delicious. 


30 


31 


PART  III 


''And  the  maize-field  grew  and  ripened, 
Till  it  stood  in  all  the  splendour 
Of  its  colors  green  and  yelloiv. 
Of  its  tassels  and  its  plumage/' 


COLONIAL  INDIAN  SUET  PUDDING. 

4  Clips  scalded  milk  '  y,  tablespoon  ginger 

1  cup  corn  meal  ^2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  creamed  suet  ^.  cup       seed       and       shredded 

1  cup  molassfes  raisins 

2  eggs  2  cups  cold  milk 

1  teaspoon   salt  ^^  cup   cold  water 

Process:  Stir  the  meal  slowly  into  the  milk,  add  remaining 
ingredients  in  the  order  given,  except  the  cold  watei  and  milk ; 
lastly  add  eggs,  beaten  thick  and  light;  pour  into  well 
buttered  baking  dish;  pour  cold  water  and  milk  over  top  (do 
not  stir  these  into  mixture).  Bake  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven 
three  hours.     Serve  with  Hard  Sauce  or  cream  and  sugar. 

BAKED   CORN   MEAL   PUDDING. 

?4  cup  corn  meal  ^4  cup  molasses 

1  cup  cold   water  ]4  teaspoon   salt 

2  cups   scalded   milk  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
^2  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon   ginger 

2  eps   slightly  beaten  ><  cup  milk    (extra) 

Process:  Stir  corn  meal  into  cold  milk,  add  to  scalded 
milk,  add  sugar,  molasses,  salt,  cinnamon,  ginger  and  egg 
slightly  beaten.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish;  bake  thirty 
minutes;  pour  over  the  extra  half  cup  of  cold  milk,  and  bake 
two  hours,  in  a  moderate  oven,  without  stirring, 

32 


BOILED  COLONIAL  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

2  cups  molasses  1  pound   beef   suet  chopped   fine 

2  cups   milk  1  teaspoon   cinnamon 

4  eggs  J4  teaspoon  cloves 

^2  tablespoon  ginger  Nutmeg   and  grated   lemon   rind 

J/2  teaspoon   salt  Corn  meal 

Process:  Heat  the  molasses  over  the  fire  just  below  the 
boiling  point,  add  milk,  suet  and  seasoning,  then  the  eggs  well 
beaten;  add  sufficient  corn  meal  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Flour 
a  cloth,  first  dipping  it  into  boiling  water.  Turn  mixture  into 
it  and  tie  securely,  leaving  room  for  pudding  to  swell.  Place 
in  a  covered  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  cook  three  hours. 
Serve  with  Brandy,  Vanilla  or  Lemon  sauce. 

APPLE  AND  BROWN  BREAD  PUDDING. 

2  cups  brown  bread  crumbs  1  egg 

2  cups   chopped   apple  2  tablespoons    flour 

%  cup  finely  chopped  suet  J^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  seed  raisins  1  cup   milk 

^A  cup  brown  sugar 

Process:  Mix  bread  crumbs  and  apple,  add  suet,  raisins 
mixed  with  flour,  and  salt,  add  milk  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Steam  in  buttered  molds  two  hours.  Serve  with  Lemon  or 
Brandy  Sauce. 

STEAMED  INDIAN  MEAL  PUDDING. 

1  cup  corn  meal  %  cup  finely  chopped  suet 

M\  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon    salt 

H  cup   N.    O.   molasses  >'2  teaspoon   ginger 

Process:  Mix  corn  meal,  molasses,  suet  and  ginger,  dis- 
solve soda  in  sour  milk,  add  to  first  mixture.     Beat  well,  pour 

into  well   buttered   mold   and  steam   four  hours.     Serve  with 
Lemon  or  Molasses  Sauce. 

INDIAN   RICE   PUDDING. 

4  cups   scalded  milk  2  tablespoons   butter 

14  cup    rice  •  y>  tablespoon  ginger 

%'  cup  Indian  meal  14  teaspoon   salt 

14  cup  molasses 

Process:     Cook  the  meal  in  milk  in  double  boiler  twenty 

33 


minutes,  add  rice  (uncooked),  molasses,  butter  and  seasoning. 
Pour  in  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
two  hours.  Stir  well  after  cooking  one-half  hour;  finish 
cooking  without  stirring. 

INDIAN  RICE  PUDDING  WITH  APPLES. 

To  Indian  Rice  Pudding  add  two  cups  pared  and  chopped 
Greening  apples.     Serve  with   Hard   Sauce. 

CORN  MEAL  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

J4  cup  corn  meal  ?-<  tablespoon  ginger 

Vs  cup  tapioca  ^  cup      seeded     and     shredded 

4  cups  scalded  milk  raisins 

2  tablespoons  butter  1>2  cups  cold  milk 

y2  teaspoon   salt  1  cup   molasses 

Process:  Mix  corn  meal,  tapioca  and  stir  slowly  into  scalded 
milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  until  tapioca  becomes  trans- 
parent, stirring  occasionally;  add  molasses,  salt,  ginger,  butter 
and  raisins;  turn  into  buttered  baking  dish.  Pour  the  cold 
milk  over  the  top;  place  in  oven.  Bake  one  hour;  stir  once 
during  baking  period.     Serve  with  Hard  Sauce  or  Cream. 

INDIVIDUAL  CORN  MEAL  PUDDINGS. 

Prepare  a  rule  of  Hasty  Pudding  (Corn  Meal  Mush). 
Beat  three  eggs  very  light,  add  one  cup  molasses,  two  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  half  tablespoon 
ginger,  add  sufficient  mush  to  this  mixture  to  make  a  thick 
batter.  Turn  into  hissing  hot  well  greased  gem  cups  to  half 
their  depth;  press  a  large  seeded  raisin  into  each.  Sprinkle 
top  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  add  a  small  dot  of  butter  to 
each,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  a  rich  brown.  Serve  with  Hard 
Sauce. 

DELICATE  INDIAN  MEAL  PUDDING. 

4  cups  scalded  milk  1  tablespoon   butter 

5  tablespoons   corn  meal  3  eggs 

4  tablespoons   sugar  ]^^  teaspoons  ginger 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Process:     Scald   milk   in    double     boiler,     add     corn     meal 

34 


slowly,  while  stirring  briskly;  let  cook  fifteen  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally  while  cooking;  add  salt,  sugar  and  butter,  then 
remove  from  range;  when  slightly  cool  add  eggs  beaten  thick 
and  light.  Turn  mixture  into  buttered  pudding  mold  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour.  Serve  with  Hard  Sauce  or 
Cream. 


CORNSTARCH  PUDDINGS 

IVORY  CORNSTARCH  PUDDING. 

2  cups  scalded  milk  5  tablespoons  sugar 

4  tablespoons  corn   starch  3  egg  whites 

''4  teaspoon   salt  >2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Process:  Mix  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt,  add  scalded  milk, 
stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  thickens;  cook  thirty  minutes 
in  double  boiler,  stirring  occasionally.  Add  the  whites  of 
eggs,  beaten  stiff,  mix  thoroughly,  add  flavoring.  Pour  into 
wet  mold,  chill  and  serve  with  cold  sweet  cream. 


GOLDEN  CORNSTARCH  PUDDING. 

Follow  recipe  for  Ivory  Cornstarch  Pudding,  substituting 
yolks  of  three  eggs  for  the  three  whites.  Flavor  with  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  each  of  Vanilla  and  Lemon  extract.  Mold, 
chill,  and  serve. 

CORNSTARCH  FRUIT  MOLD. 

Follow  recipe  for  Ivory  or  Golden  Cornstarch  Pudding, 
adding  one  cup  of  chopped  candied  fruits,  or  cooked  fruits, 
drained  from  their  liquor,  halves  of  apricots,  sliced  peaches, 
stewed  and  stoned  prunes,  to  the  pudding  before  molding.  If 
the  fruit  is  in  large  portions,  these  may  be  arranged  attractively 
in  bottom  of  wet  mold  and  mixture  poured  over,  patted  into 
place,  and  chilled  thoroughly.  Unmold.  Serve  surrounded 
with  whipped  cream. 

35 


COCOANUT  MOLD. 

Follow  recipe  for  Ivory  Cornstarch  Pudding,  adding  one 
cup  freshly  grated  cocoanut.  Mold  in  individual  molds;  garnish 
each  with  a  cherry  cut  in  quarters.  Serve  with  Boiled  Custard 
or  Whipped   Cream,  sweetened  and   flavored. 

ELIZABETH  PUDDING. 

4  cups  scalded  milk  H  cup  cold  milk 

Vo  cup  cornstarch  1  teaspoon    lemon  or   vanilla 

Vii  cup  sug-ar  3  eggs,  whites 

y/\.  teaspoon  salt 

Process:     Mix  sugar,  cornstarch  and  salt,  dilute  with  cold^ 
milk,    add    scalded    milk,    stirring    continually    until    mixture 
thickens;  cook  fifteen  minutes.     Flavor;  fold  in  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff,   mix  carefully  to  retain   fluffy  consistency,   mold, 
chill  and   serve  with  Boiled   Custard  or  Golden   Sauce. 

SNOW  BALLS  WITH  CHOCOLATE  SAUCE. 
Follow  recipe  for  Elizabeth  Pudding.     Mold  in  round  bot- 
tom molds,  chill,  and  serve  with  Chocolate  Sauce. 

PINEAPPLE  PUDDING. 

234  cups  scalded  milk  %  teaspoon   salt 

^4  cup  cold  milk  J^  can  finely  chopped  pineapple 

V?,  cup  corn  starch  3  egg  whites 

V.i  cup  sugar 

Process:  Follow  method  of  making  Elizabeth  Pudding, 
adding  fruit  just  before  molding.  Fill  small  fancy  molds,  first 
dipped  in  cold  water,  chill. '  Serve  each  mold  on  a  circle  of 
canned  pineapple;  the  juice  of  the  pineapple  may  be  thickened 
slightly  and  poured  over  each,  or  whipped  cream  may  be  used. 

CHOCOLATE  CORNSTARCH  CONES. 

yi  cup  cornstarch  3  egg  whites 

%  cup  cold  milk  Vz  teaspoon    vanilla 

2  cups  scalded  milk  V/2  squares  chocolate 

Sy^  tablespoons    sugar  2  tablespoons    sugar 

%.  teaspoon  salt  Blanched   almonds 

Process:     Dilute  cornstarch   with    cold    milk;   add    sugar, 

36 


salt  and  scalded  riiilk.  Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water;  add 
sugar  and  enough  of  hot  mixture  to  the  consistency  to  pour. 
Combine  mixtures  and  cook  in  double  boiler  twenty  minutes, 
stirring  continually.  Remove  from  range;  when  slightly  cool, 
cut  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  add  vanilla. 
Turn  into  wet  cone  shaped  molds,  decorated  with  almonds 
arranged  like  a  star.  Chill  thoroughly,  unmold  and  surround 
each  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored.  Force 
through  pastry  bag,  using  star  tube. 

RACHEL  CORNSTARCH  PUDDING. 

2  cups  scalded  milk  1^4  squares  chocolate 

Mi  cup  corn  starch  3  tablespoons  boiling  water 

14  cup  sugar  3  whites  of  eggs 

14  teaspoon   salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

14  cup  cold  milk  72  cup  shredded  almonds 

Process:  Mix  sugar,  cornstarch  and  salt;  dilute  with  cold 
milk.  Add  to  scalded  milk  slowly  while  stirring  constantly; 
cook  fifteen  minutes  or  until  mixture  thickens.  Melt  choco- 
late, add  hot  water,  stir  to  a  smooth  paste ;  add  to  cooked  mix- 
ture; add  blanched  and  shredded  almonds.  Fold  in  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  stifF,  and  flavoring.  Turn  into  fancy  ring  mold, 
wet  with  cold  water.  Chill,  unmold,  fill  center  with  whipped 
cream. 


PUDDING  SAUCES 
VANILLA  SAUCE. 

^/2  cup   sugar  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  tablespoon  corn  starch  2  tablespoons  butter 

%  teaspoon    salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract 

Process:  Mix  and  sift  sugar  and  cornstarch;  add  salt; 
pour  on  gradually  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.  Simmer 
ten  minutes;  remove  from  range;  add  butter  and  vanilla;  beat 
well  and  serve. 

37 


LEMON  SYRUP. 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

li  cup   water  A   slight   grating  lemon   rind 

1  teaspoon  butter 

Process:  Boil  water,  sugar  and  lemon  peel  until  it  slightly 
thickens;  add  butter  and  lemon  juice;  beat  with  gem  whip  to 
blend  butter ;  strain  and  serve  at  once  with  Waffles  or  Fritters. 


WHIPPED  CREAM  SAUCE. 

1  cup  heavy  cream  I2  teaspoon    vanilla 

14  cup  powdered  sugar 

Process:     Whip  cream  until  stiff,  using  Dover  egg  beater. 
Add  sugar  and  vanilla,  chill  thoroughly. 


BOILED  CUSTARD. 

2  cups  scalded  milk  y$  teaspoon   salt 

4  egg  yolks  14  tablespoon    vanilla    or    1    ta- 

Vs  cup   sugar  blespoon  sherry 

Process:  Beat  yolks  slightly;  add  sugar  and  salt;  stir 
constantly  while  adding  scalded  milk  slowly.  Cook  in  double 
boiler.  Continue  stirring  until  mixture  thickens  the  con- 
sistency of  thin  cream;  strain  immediately.  Chill  and  flavor. 
Do  not  allow  the  water  in  double  boiler  to  boil  vigorously 
while  cooking  custard,  as  this  will  curdle  the  custard.  Mix- 
ture should  form  a  coating  on  the  wooden  spoon;  it  is  then 
cooked   sufficiently. 

GOLDEN   SAUCE. 

2  whole  eggs  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  egg  yolk  2  tablespoons   sherry 

1  cup   sugar 

Process:  Beat  eggs  very  light;  add  sugar  gradually;  add 
flavoring  and   beat   thoroughly. 

38 


CHOCOLATE  SAUCE. 

2  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  hot  water 

V/j  tablespoons   corn   starch  2  eggs 

2  squares  chocolate  %  cup  powdered  sugar 

li  cup  powdered  sugar  1  teaspoon   vanilla 

Process:  Reserve  one-fourth  cup  of  milk  and  scald  the 
remainder.  Dilute  cornstarch  with  cold  milk  and  add  to 
scalded  milk.  Cook  ten  minutes  in  double  boiler,  stirring 
constantly.  Melt  chocolate  over  boiling  water;  add  fourth 
cup  sugar  and  hot  water;  stir  to  a  smooth  paste;  add  to  cooked 
mixture.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  powdered  sugar  slowly, 
and  continue  beating.  Then  add  yolks  slightly  beaten;  add 
to  first  mixture.     Cook  two  minutes;  cool  slightly,  and  flavor. 


MOLASSES  SAUCE. 

1  cup   Palmetto  molasses  2J/4  tablespoons    lemon    juice    or 

2  tablespoons   butter  malt  vinegar 

Process:     Cook  molasses  and  butter  together  five  minutes; 
remove  from  range  and  add  lemon  juice,  or  vinegar. 


BRANDY  SAUCE. 

J4  cup  butter  %  cup   Hennessy  brandy 

y2  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  Jamaica  rum 

2  egg  yolks  well  beaten  2  egg  whites 

ys  teaspoon   salt  Nutmeg 
J/2  cup  hot  cream  or  milk 

Process:  Cream  the  butter;  add  sugar  gradually,  beating 
continually;  add  the  egg  yolks  and  salt.  Pour  on  slowly  hot 
milk  or  cream.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  a  delicate  coating 
is  formed  on  the  wooden  spoon.  Remove  from  range ;  add 
brandy  and  rum ;  pour-  this  mixture  gradually  over  the  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  beating  constantly  with  gem  whip;  sprinkle 
with  nutmeg. 

39 


HARD  SAUCE. 

%  cup  butter  ]/>  teaspoon    vanilla 

1  cup  powdered   sugar  Nutmeg 

Y2  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

Process:  Cream  butter  in  earthern  bowl  with  wooden 
spoon ;  add  sugar  slowly,  beating  constantly ;  add  flavoring. 
Brandy  may  be  substituted  for  extracts.  Force  mixture 
through  pastry  bag  with  rose  tube,  onto  a  cold  plate ;  sprinkle 
with  nutmeg;  keep  in  cool  place  until  ready. to  serve. 


SAVORY  SAUCES 

THIN  WHITE  SAUCE. 

2  tablespoons   butter  Few  grains  pepper 

IH  tablespoons    flour  1  cup  hot  milk 

^  teaspoon  salt 

Process:  Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  flour  mixed 
with  the  seasonings;  let  cook  one  minute;  stir  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Then  add  milk  gradually,  and  beat  with  gem  whip 
until  smooth  and  glossy. 

CHEESE  SAUCE. 

Follow  recipe  for  Thin  White  Sauce,  adding  one-half  cup 
Edam  or  American  Cream  Cheese  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne. 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE. 

4  tablespoons   butter  1  cup  hot  cream 

4  tablespoons  flour  Nutmeg 

1  cup    highly    seasoned    chicken 
stock 

Process:  Melt  butter  in  saucepan;'  axld  flour,  stir  to  a 
smooth  paste.  Cook  one  minute.  Add  stock,  beating  con- 
stantly; add  cream  and  a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg.  Beat 
Saute  in  tried  out  salt  pork  fat,  or  butter. 

40 


TOMATO  SAUCE. 


4  tablespoons   butter 
SYz  tablespoons    flour 
\y2  cups  Brown  stock 
\]/2  cups     stewed     and 

tomatoes 
1  slice  carrot 
1  slice  onion 


Bit  of  bay  leaf 
Sprig  of  parsley 
4  cloves 
strained       34  teaspoon  salt 

Y^  teaspoon  pepper 
Few  grains   cayenne 


Process:  Brown  butter  in  saucepan,  add  flour,  stir  to 
a  smooth  paste,  and  continue  browning.  Add  seasonings,  pour 
on  gradually,  brown  stock,  stirring  constantly.  Add  tomato 
pulp;  stir  briskly  and  let  simmer  fifteen  minutes.  Strain  and 
serve. 


41 


42 


PART  IV 


"And  the   maize-ears  full  and  shining 
Gleamed  from  bursting  sheaths  of  verdure." 

HOW  TO  COOK  GREEN  AND  CANNED  CORN. 


BOILED  GREEN  CORN. 

Remove  outer  husks,  strip  back  the  inner  one;  pick  out  all 
the  silky  threads,  fold  back  the  husks  and  cook  corn  in 
boiling  water  from  ten  to  twenty  minutes,  according  to  the 
age  of  the  corn;  add  salt  last  half  of  cooking  period.  Drain 
well.  Serve  on  platter  in  napkin,  folding  the  corners  over 
the  corn. 

GREEN  CORN  BOILED  IN  MILK. 

Follow  recipe  for  Boiled  Green  Corn,  using  equal  parts  of 
skimmed  milk  and  water.  Salt  the  milk  and  water  five  minutes 
before  removing  corn.     Drain ;  serve  enfolded  in  a  napkin. 

ROASTED   GREEN   CORN. 

Select  the  desired  number  of  ears  of  young  green  corn;  re- 
move the  hushs  and  silk ;  brush  over  lightly  with  melted  butter, 
place  on  grate  in  hot  oven,  turn  as  corn  browns.  Roast  twenty- 
five  minutes.     Serve  in  folded  napkin  immediately. 

CORN  WITH   CREAM. 

Shave  corn  from  cob  while  hot.  There  should  be  two 
cups.  Turn  into  saucepan  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
one  teaspoon  sugar;  add  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter  and 

43 


three  tablespoons  cream,  reheat  and  serve.  When  cutting 
corn  from  cob  do  not  cut  so  deep  that  portions  of  cob  are 
shaved  off  with  corn. 

FRIED   GREEN   CORN. 

Cut  the  corn  from  cob,  using  care  that  none  of  the  cob 
is  cut  with  it.  Melt  butter  in  a  spider,  add  corn,  separate  the 
kernals,  and  stir  until  corn  is  delicately  browned;  use  as  little 
butter  as  possible;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  rich 
cream.  Do  not  allow  mixture  to  boil  after  cream  is  added. 
Serve  around  chicken  croquettes. 

STEWED  GREEN  CORN. 

Cut  the  corn  from  one  dozen  ears  of  tender  green  corn. 
Put  the  corn  in  a  saucepan,  add  sufficient  water  to  cover;  bring 
to  boiling  point  and  cook  twenty  minutes.  There  should  be 
very  little  moisture  left.  Add  one-half  cup  cream  or  milk, 
one  teaspoon  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  and  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  For  a  change  use  equal  parts  of  corn  and 
tomatoes;  season  the  same.  Tomatoes  should  be  peeled,  cut 
in  quarters  and  all  the  seeds  scraped  out.  Cook  until  tender 
with  the  corn. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Cut  hot  boiled  corn  from  the  cob;  add  equal  quantity  of 
hot  boiled  lima  beans;  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

SOUTHERN   SUCCOTASH. 

6  ears   of  green   corn  1  tablespoon   sugar 

2  cups  green  lima  beans  Salt  and  pepper 

:4  pound  salt  pork 

Process:  Cut  the  corn  carefully  from  the  cob.  Put  the 
cobs  in  water  to  cover;  let  them  boil  twenty  minutes.  Remove 
the  cobs  and  strain  the  liquor  over  the  cut  corn  ;  add  the  beans 

44 


and  salt  pork  cut  in  half-inch  cubes;  add  sugar  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Let  simmer  slowly  one  hour  until  the 
moisture  is  evaporated  to  the  desired  consistency.  In  the  south 
this  dish  resembles  soup  somewhat.  It  is  more  generally  liked, 
however,  served  as  a  vegetable  about  the  consistency  of  stewed 
corn ;  two  or  three  tablespoons  of  hot  cream  added  just  before 
serving  is  an  addition  to  this  dish. 

CORN  SOUTHERN  STYLE. 

2  cups  cooked  corn  or  1  can  of       %  teaspoon  pepper 

corn  1  teaspoon    sugar 

2  eggs  slightly  beaten  V/^  tablespoons  melted  butter. 

1  teaspoon   salt  2  cups  scalded  milk. 

Process:  Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given,  turn 
mixture  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  until  mixture 
is  firm.     Serve  with  Fried  Chicken. 

CORN   OYSTERS. 

2  cups  green  corn  pulp.  J-2  teaspoon  sugar 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  2  eggs  well  beaten 
?<4  teaspoon  salt  Pepper    and    flour 

Process:  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  through  the  kernels,  scrape 
out  the  pulp ;  add  the  butter,  seasoning  and  eggs,  and  lastly 
sufficient  flour  to  shape  in  small  cakes  the  size  of  N.  Y.  Counts. 
Saute  in  tried  out  salt  pork  fat,  or  butter, 

CORN  A  LA  MEXICAN. 

6  tomatoes  ^  teaspoon    salt 

2  tablespoons   butter  2  cups  hot  green  corn 

1  green  pepper  finely  chopped  1  tablespoon    butter   or   cream 

1  small    clove    garlic    or    1    tea- 
spoon  finely   chopped   onion. 

Process:  Cut  tomatoes  in  quarters,  scrape  out  all  the  seeds. 
Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  add  pepper  and  garlic;  cook  without 
browning  three  minutes;  add  tomatoes  and  salt;  cook  five 
minutes;  add  corn  freshly  boiled  and  cut  from  the  cob;  add  a 

45 


tablespoon  of  butter  or  cream  and  serve..  Before  chopping 
pepper,  pour  boiling  water  over,  let  stand  one  minute,  then 
peel  off  the  tissue-like  skin  covering  it.  Pimientoes  may  be 
used  w^hen  green  peppers  are  not  available. 

CORN  CROQUETTES. 

1  quart  grated  green  corn  Y^  teaspoon   pepper 

2  Clips  milk  or  thin  cream  1  teaspoon   sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  well  beaten  eggs 

2  tablespoons  cheese  3  tablespoons    flour 

1  teaspoon   salt 

Process:  Cook  corn  and  flour  in  milk  in  double  boiler 
twenty  minutes;  add  butter,  cheese,  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and 
well  beaten  eggs;  spread  in  granite  dripping  pan  to  the  depth 
of  one  inch.  When  cold  cut  in  two-inch  squares,  dip  in  flour, 
egg  and  cracker  crumbs;  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  on  brown 
paper  and  serve  with   Fried   Chicken. 

CORN    FRITTERS.     No.    1. 

1  cup  canned  corn  1  teaspoon   sugar 

1  well  beaten  egg  Salt  and  pepper 

%  cup    flour 

Process:  Mix  corn,  flour  and  sugar  together,  add  well 
beaten  egg,  season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  drop  on 
well  buttered  hot  griddle  about  the  size  of  N.  Y.  Counts. 
Brown  on  one  side  and  turn  and  brown  on  the  other.  Serve 
with  Fried  Chicken  or  chicken  croquettes. 

CORN  FRITTERS.     No.  2. 

1  cup  corn  cut  from  cob  1  teaspoon   sugar 

1  cup  flour  J/2  cup   milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

Few  grains  cayenne  1  Qgg  lightly  beaten 

Process:  Beat  egg  thoroughly;  add  remaining  ingredients 
in  order  given.  Drop  by  tablespoonfuls  into  deep  hot  fat. 
Cook  six  to  eight  minutes,  turning  often.  Drain  on  brown 
paper  and  serve  surrounding  Broiled  Chicken. 

46 


CORN    OMELET. 

4  eggs  beaten  separately  1  teaspoon    sugar 

4  tablespoons  hot  water  IJ^  tablespoons   butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  corn  cut  from  the-  cob  or 

^4  teaspoon   pepper  canned  corn 

Process:  Beat  the  yolks  thick  and  light;  add  salt,  pepper, 
sugar,  corn  and  hot  water;  beat  well.  Whip  whites  until  stiff, 
and  cut  and  fold  them  into  first  mixture;  blend  thoroughly. 
Melt  butter  in  iron  spider;  tip  it  so  the  sides  are  well  buttered: 
turn  in  the  mixture,  spread  evenly;  cook  ten  minutes  on  top 
of  range,  then  finish  cooking  in  the  oven.  Fold  as  puffy  omelet 
on  a  hot  platter.  Serve  with  Thin  White,  Cheese  or  Tomato 
Sauce. 


TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  STUCCOTASH. 

Wash,  wipe  and  remove  a  thin  slice  from  the  stem  end  of 
six  uniform  sized  tomatoes,  scoop  out  the  inside,  sprinkle  with 
salt,  invert,  let  stand  one-half  hour.  Mix  the  pulp  with  one 
cup  of  succotash,  stuff  tomatoes  and  arrange  them  In  a  granite 
dripping  pan  well  buttered;  sprinkle  the  top  of  each  with 
buttered  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes 
or  until  tender.  Baste  one  with  melted  butter.  Serve  with 
Roast  Loin  of  Veal. 


CORN  TIMBALES. 

2  tablespoons    butter  ^2  cup   soft  bread  crumbs 

2  tablespoons  onion  1  teaspoon  sugar 

2  tablespoons    green    pepper  1  teaspoon   salt 

2  cups  hot  green  corn  or  1  can  H  teaspoon  pepper 

of  corn  3  eggs 

Process:  Melt  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  onion  and  pepper 
finely  chopped,  cook  five  minutes  without  browning,  stir  con- 
stantly, add  corn  finely  chopped,  bread  crumbs,  sugar,  salt 
and  pepper;  beat  the  yolks  thick  and  light;  add  to  first  mix- 
ture; cut  and  fold  in  the  whites  beaten  stiff.     Fill  well  but- 

47 


tered  timbale  molds  two-thirds  full ;  set  molds  in  pan  of  hot 
water  and  bake  until  mixture  is  firm.  Serve  with  Tomato 
Sauce. 

CREAMED  CORN  AU  GRATIN. 

4  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  sugar 

4  tablespoons  flour  1^  cups  rich  milk 

1  teaspoon    salt  2  cups  green  corn  cut  from  cob 

]/8  teaspoon   white   pepper  ^  cup  cracker  crumbs 

Few  grains  cayenne  ^  cup   melted   butter 

Process:  Melt  butter,  add  flour,  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and 
gradually  milk.  Cook  one  minute  and  stir  until  smooth ;  then 
stir  in  corn,  let  boil  up  once,  and  turn  into  buttered  baking 
dish;  cover  top  with  cracker  crumbs  mixed  with  melted  butter 
and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CORN  CUSTARD. 

1  cup     cooked     green     corn     or       1  teaspoon   sugar 

canned    corn    finely    chopped       %  teaspoon   pepper 
4  eggs  slightly  beaten  Few  drops  onion  juice 

H  teaspoon   salt  1;4  cups  scalded  milk 

Process:  Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  seasoning  and  pour  on 
slowly  scalded  milk ;  continue  beating ;  add  corn,  mix  well ;  turn 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish  set  in  pan  of  hot  water;  bake  in 
moderate  oven  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes.  Stir  mixture 
once  while  cooking  to  prevent  corn  from  settling  to  the  bottom 
of  dish.  Turn  on  serving  platter  and  surround  with  Broiled 
Tomatoes. 

GREEN  CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

1  cup  grated  cold  cooked  green      23-^  cups   flour 

corn  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  tablespoons    melted    butter         "    1  egg  lightly  beaten 
1  tablespoon  sugar  2  cups  sweet  milk 

Process:  Add  butter,  salt  and  sugar  to  grated  corn;  sift 
flour  and  baking  pow^der  together;  add  to  first  mixture 
alternately  with  the  milk,  add  lightly  beaten  egg  and  cook  on 
hot  well   greased   griddle. 

48 


CORN    HASH. 

(Relish  to  serve  with  meats ,  etc.) 

y^  small    head    cabbage  2  medium-sized   onions 

2  green  peppers  3  cups  freshly  cooked  corn 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  whole  black  pepper 

3  tablespoons      whole      mustard       1  tablespoon  celery  seed 

seeds  Vinegar  to  cover 

1  red  pepper  Salt  to  taste 

Process:  Chop  cabbage,  peppers  and  onion  very  fine,  add 
corn  freshly  boiled  and  cut  from  the  cob.  Add  sugar,  mustard, 
celery  seed  and  pepper.  Mix  well,  season  to  taste  with  salt, 
add  vinegar,  and  simmer  twenty  minutes.  This  may  be  bottled 
and  stored  in  a  cool  place. 


CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP. 

1  can  corn  1  teaspoon   sugar 

2  cups  boiling  water  2  tablespoons   butter 
2  cups     thin     cream     or     milk,       2  tablespoons   flour 

scalded  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  slice   onion  li  teaspoon  white  pepper 

Process:  Chop  the  corn  from  one  can  fine,  add  boiling 
water,  cook  slowly  twenty  minutes.  Scald  milk  with  onion, 
remove  onion  and  add  milk  to  corn.  Add  sugar  and  bind  with 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Add  salt  and  pepper.  Serve 
with  freshly  popped  corn  slightly  salted. 


CORN  SOUP  WITH  TOMATOES. 

2  cups  grated  cooked  green  corn  1  small     clove    of    garlic    finely 

or    1    can    of    corn    without  chopped 

hulls  6  cups     well     seasoned     chicken 

\Y2  cups   tomatoes  stock 

Yz  green  or  red  pepper  Salt  and  pepper 
Itablespoon  onionfinelychopped. 

Process:  Peel  and  quarter  tomatoes,  scrape  out  all  the 
seeds,  add  tomatoes,  corn,  pepper,  onion  and  garlic  to  stock; 
place    kettle    on    range,    bring   to    boiling   point,    cook    rapidly 

49 


five  minutes,  reduce  heat  and  simmer  until  vegetables  are 
tender  [about  thirty  minutes].  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Serve  with  croutons. 


CORN  SOUP  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM. 

6  ears  of  corn  or  1  can  of  corn  1  teaspoon   sugar 

2  cups  cold  water  P/i  teaspoons   salt 

2  tablespoons       finely       chopped  3  tablespoons   butter 

onion  3  tablespoons   flOur 

2  cups  scalded  milk  1  cup   whipped  cream 

Process:  Cut  corn  from  cob,  chop  fine,  add  water  and 
cook  twenty  minutes.  Rub  through  a  puree  strainer;  add 
scalded  milk.  Cook  onion  in  butter  five  minutes  (do  not 
brown  it),  remove  onion,  add  flour  and  cook  one  minute,  add 
seasoning  and  corn  mixture.  Mix  well,  bring  to  boiling  point, 
cook  five  minutes,  and  pour  over  whipped  cream  placed  in  bot- 
tom of  hot  soup  tureen.     Serve  with  Crisp  Crackers. 


CORN  CHOWDER. 

2  cups  of  cooked  green  corn  or  2  cups  boiling  water 

•    1  can  corn  3  cups  milk 

1  cup  salt  pork  cut  in  half  cubes  3  tablespoons  butter 

4  cups    potatoes    ciit    in    J4-ii''ch  4  Boston   crackers 

cubes  Salt,  pepper  and  few  grains 
y2  onion   sliced  cayenne 

Process:  Try  out  the  cubes  of  pork  in  saucepan,  add  onion 
and  cook  five  minutes  without  browning;  strain  fat  into  stew 
pan.  Parboil  potato  cubes  five  minutes;  drain,  add  potatoes 
to  fat;  add  two  cups  boiling  water;  continue  cooking  until 
potatoes  are  tender.  Add  corn,  and  milk  scalded,  bring  to 
boiling  point.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne ;  add 
butter  and  crackers,  the  latter  split  and  soaked  in  cold  milk 
enough  to  cover.  Remove  crackers  with  skinner,  turn  crowder 
into  hot  tureen,  place  crackers  on  top  and  serve  immediately. 
A  delicious  chowder  may  be  made  by  substituting  the  same 
quantity  of  succotash  for  the  corn. 

50 


CORN  AND  TOMATO  SALAD. 

1  Clip  tomato  pulp  1  teaspoon   salt 

1  slice  onion  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

2  slices  carrot  ]i  teaspoon  soda 

1  blade   celery   broken    in  pieces       1  cup  freshly   cooked  or   canned 

1  sprig  parsley  corn    (latter   drained) 

Bit  of  bay  letif  1  tablespoon      granulated      gcla- 

4  cloves  tine 

J4  teaspoon  pepper   corns  2  tablespoons  cold  water 

Process:  Cook  the  first  eight  ingredients  in  a  saucepan, 
twenty  minutes,  then  rub  through  a  strainer;  add  soda,  salt, 
Worcestershire,  and  hot  corn.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water 
and  dissolve  over  hot  water.  Remove  first  mixture  from 
range,  add  gelatine,  mix  well ;  and  pour  into  individual  molds 
previously  wet  in  cold  water.  Chill  thoroughly,  unmold  and 
serve  in  nests  of  lettuce  leaves;  garnish  with  Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

CORN   SALAD. 

2  cups  freshly  boiled  green  corn      4  young  onions  or  2  tablespoons 
y2  green   or  red  pepper  finely   chopped    chives 

Process:  Cut  tender,  freshly  cooked  corn  from  the  cob, 
add  pepper  and  onion  finely  chopped,  toss  lightly  and  marniate 
with  French  Dressing;  let  stand  to  ripen  one  hour,  then  serve 
in  nests  of  endive  with  or  without  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 


51 


D2 


PART  V 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES 


BOSTON  VELVET  CAKE. 

Y-z  cup    butter  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

\y2  cups  fine   granulated   sugar         Vg  teaspoon  salt 

4  egg  yolks  4  egg  whites 

V>  cup  cold  water  .  -<  teaspoon    almond    extract 

1^  cups  flour  V2  cup    blanched    and    shredded 

}/"cup  corn  starch  almonds 

Frocess:  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  yolks  of  eggs 
beaten  very  light  and  water.  Sift  the  flour,  cornstarch,  salt 
and  baking  powder;  add  to  first  mixture.  Lastly,  cut  and  fold 
in  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  add  extract,  and  turn  mix- 
ture into  a  buttered  and  floured  shallow  cake  pan.  Sprinkle 
almonds  over  the  top  of  cake.  Bake  thirty-five  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.     Do  not  frost  this  cake. 

CORNSTARCH  CAKE. 

%  cup  butter  4]>^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  fine  cake  sugar  ^  5  egg   whites  - 

1  cup  milk  V-2.  teaspoon     each     lemon     and 

1  cup  corn  starch  vanilla  extract 

2  cups   flour 

Process:  Cream  the  butter  with  a  wooden  spoon,  in  an 
earthen  mixing  bowl;  add  sugar  gradually;  sift  cornstarch, 
flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together  twice;  add  alternately 
to  first  mixture  with  milk;  lastly,  cut  and  fold  in  the  whites 
of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  add  extract.  Turn  mixture  into  two 
brick-shaped  bread  pans,  buttered  and  floured.  Bake  forty-five 
minutes  in  moderate  oven.     Frost  with  Boiled  Frosting. 

63 


BOILED  FROSTING.     • 

1  Clip  granulated   sugar  1  egg  \vhite  beaten  stiff 

Ys  teaspoon    cream    tartar  ^4  teaspoon  vanilla  extract 

li  cup   cold   water 

Process:  Mix  well,  sugar,  cream  tartar*  and  cold  water 
in  a  sauce  pan,  place  on  range,  bring  to  boiling  point,  stirring 
constantly,  cook  without  stirring  until  the  syrup  drops  from 
wooden  spoon  like  honey.  Remove  from  range,  add  three 
tablespoons  of  syrup  to  the  white  of  egg,  beating  constantly; 
return  remaining  syrup  to  range  and  cook  until  it  will  spin  a 
thread ;  remove  from  range  at  once  and  pour  syrup  into  first 
mixture.  Continue  beating,  add  vanilla.  Beat  until  frosting 
cools  slightly  and  begins  to  glaze  on  sides  of  pan.  Pour  on 
cake,  spread  evenly,  let  cool  before  Cutting  cake. 

POPCORN  BRITTLE. 

3  cups   brown    sugar  ]A  cup  butter 

1  cup  N.  O.  molasses  2  teaspoons  soda 

H  teaspoon   cream  tartar  2  tablespoons  hot  water 

3  cups    freshly   popped    corn 

Process:  Boil  the  first  three  ingredients  in  an  iron  kettle 
to  the  "hard  Crack"  degree  (310°  F.),  i.  e.,  when  a  little  of 
the  syrup  is  dropped  into  ice  water  it  will  form  a  hard  ball 
and  when  pressed  between  the  teeth  it  will  not  stick,  but  will 
leave  them  clean  and  free  from  taffy;  add  butter,  and  when 
it  is  well  blended  add  popcorn;  stir  it  well.  Remove  from 
range,  add  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  stir  briskly;  when 
mixture  begins  to  rise,  turn  it  oni  an  oiled  or  buttered  marble 
salb,  or  platter,  spread  thin  and  evenly;  when  cold  break  in 
small  pieces. 

POPCORN   BALLS. 

(Old  Fashioned.) 

2  cups  N.  O.  molasses  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

1  cup  brown  sugar  14  teaspoon    soda 

2  tablespoons   butter  4  quarts  freshly  popped  corn 

Process:     Cook   the   first   four  ingredients  in   a  large  iron 

54 


kettle  to  the  "hard  Crack"  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe.  Remove 
to  back  of  range,  add  soda  dissolved  in  one  tablespoon  hot 
water;  when  mixture  begins  to  rise  stir  in  popcorn;  mix  well 
and  rapidly;  turn  out  on  a  buttered  or  oiled  platter  and  shape 
in  balls.  The  latter  part  of  this  process  must  be  done  quickly, 
before  taffy  hardens. 

PARCHED  SWEET  CORN. 

2  cups   sweet  seed  corn  Salt 

4  tablespoons    butter  Boiling  water 

Process:  Pick  over  corn,  removing  all  imperfect  kernels 
and  bits  of  cob.  Put  corn  in  sieve  and  pour  boiling  water  over 
it.  Drain  on  crash  towel.  Melt  butter  in  iron  spider,  add 
corn  and  stir  constantly  until  each  kernel  is  delicately  browned 
and  pufifed.  Drain  on  brown  paper,  sprinkle  with  salt.  Shake 
corn  in  a  coarse  sieve  to  get  rid  of  superfluous  salt.  Serve  same 
as  salted  nuts.  If  one  cup  of  corn  is  parched  at  a  time  it  will 
brown  more  evenly. 

I.  9f  C. 


66 


66 


INDEX 


CHAPTER  I. 

Hasty      Pudding       (corn      meal 

mush)     11 

Fried    Hasty    Pudding 11 

Corn  Meal  "Dabs"  or  Dodgers.  12 

Hoe   Cake 12 

Corn    Dodgers    12 

Indian    Bannocks 13 

Griddle    Johnny    Cakes 13 

Indian    Meal   Flapjacks 13 

Corn     Pone 14 

Polenta    14 

Mushroom   Sauce  for   Polenta..  14 

Indian   Meal  Blocks 15 

Corn    Meal   Gruel 15 

Pannhaus     15 

Philadelphia    Scrapple 15 

Hulled    Corn 16 

CHAPTER  II. 

Boston  Brown  Bread 18 

Boston  Brown  Bread  with  Fruitl8 
Steamed    Boston    Brown    Bread 

with  Cream 18 

Jolly    Joe 19 

Corn  Flour  Bread 19 

Old     Fashioned     Baked     Brown 

Bread    19 

Corn      Bread      (New      Orleans 

Recipe.)     20 

Sweet  Corn   Bread 20 

Apple  Johnny  Cake 20 

Dainty   Spoon   Corn   Bread 21 

Southern  Spoon  Corn  Bread... 21 
Virginia  Spoon  Corn  Bread.... 21 

57 


Old  Virginia  Batter  Bread 21 

Rich    Corn    Bread 22 

White  Corn   Meal   Cake 22 

Sponge   Corn    Cake,  1 22 

Sponge   Corn    Cake,  2 23 

Spider    Corn    Cake 23 

Thin   Corn   Cake 23 

Molasses    Corn   Cake 23 

Corn    Muffins 24 

Corn  Meal  Muffins  with  Rice... 24 
Corn   Meal   Sponge   Muffins.... 24 

Cream   Corn   Meal  Gems 25 

Poppets   25 

Corn   Meal   Popovers 25 

"Pete's"      Corn      Meal      Griddle 

Cakes     25 

Buckwheat    Cakes 26 

Flannel    Cakes 26 

Norfolk    Waffles 26 

Hominy    Porridge . . . . ; 27 

Steamed   Pearled   Hominy 27 

Baltimore    Samp 27 

Hominy    Waffles 27 

Hominy  Griddle  Cakes 28 

Hominy   Muffins    28 

Granulated   Hominy   Crescents.  .28 

Hominy    Croquettes 28 

Granulated  Hominy  Crusts 29 

Hominy  Drop  Cakes 29 

Gnocchi   an    Gratin 29 

CHAPTER  HI. 

Colonial  Indian  Suet  Pudding.. 32 
Baked    Corn   Meal    Pudding. ..  .32 


Boiled  Colonial  Indian  Pudding. 33 
Apple    and    Brown    Bread    Pud- 
ding      33 

Steamed   Indian   Meal   Pudding. 33 

Indian  Rice   Pudding 33 

Indian    Rice    Pudding    with    Ap- 
ples     34 

Corn  Meal  Tapioca  Pudding. ..  .34 
Individual  Corn  Meal  Pudding. 34 
Delicate  Indian  Meal  Pudding.. 34 

Ivory    Cornstarch    Pudding 35 

Golden   Cornstarch    Pudding.  ..  .35 

Cornstarch   Fruit   Mould 35 

Cocoanut    Mould 36 

Elizabeth    Pudding 36 

Snow      Balls      with      Chocolate 

Sauce   36 

Pineapple    Pudding 36 

Chocolate  Cornstarch  Cones.... 36 
Rachel   Cornstarch  Pudding 37 

Pudding  Sauces. 

Vanilla    Sauce 37 

Lemon   Syrup    38 

Whipped  Cream  Sauce 38 

Boiled  Custard 38 

Golden    Sauce 38 

Chocolate    Sauce 39 

Molasses    Sauce 39 

Brandy  Sauce 39 

Hard'  Sauce 40 

Savory  Sauces. 

Thin   White  Sauce 40 

Cheese    Sauce 40 

Bechamel    Sauce 40 

Tomato   Sauce 41 


CHAPTER  IV. 

Boiled  Green  Corn 43 

Green    Corn   Boiled  in   Milk 43 

Roasted   Green   Corn 43 

Corn   with   Cream 43 

Fried    Green    Corn 44 

Stewed   Green  Corn 44 

Succotash    44 

Southern    Succotash .". . .  .44 

Corn,    Southern    Style 45 

Corn    Oysters 45 

Corn   a    la   Mexican 45 

Corn    Croquettes    46 

Corn    Fritters,    1 46 

Corn    Fritters,    2 46 

Corn    Omelet    47 

Tomatoes,    Stuffed    with    Succo- 
tash     47 

Corn  Timbales    47 

Cream  Corn  au  Gratin .'48 

Corn    Custard 48 

Green   Corn  Griddle  Cakes 48 

Corn   Hash    49 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup 49 

Corn    Soup    with    Tomatoes. ..  .49 
Corn  Soup  with  Whipped  Cream50 

Corn    Chowder 50 

Corn  and   Tomato   Salad 51 

Corn    Salad    51 

CHAPTER  V. 

Boston  Velvet  Cake 53 

Cornstarch    Cake 53 

Boiled   Frosting 54 

Popcorn    Brittle 54 

Popcorn    Balls 54 

Parched  Sweet  Corn .  -. 55 


58 


Success 

with 

Cornmeal  recipes 

^s^^  depends    on    the    quality    of 
H4     the  cornmeal  you  use. 

Quaker(Best)Corn  meal 

(yellow  or  whice) 

is  superior  to  all  others;  uniform;   reliable. 

^Tq^P  f     All  the  recipes  in  this  book  have  been 
tested    6y    the    author    with     QuakSP' 
Oats  Quality  corn  goods  with  best  results;   these 
brands  are: 

.  Quaker  Best  Cornmeal  —  white  or  yellow 
Quaker  Corn  Flour — white  or  yellow 
Quaker  Hominy  Grits 
F.  S.   Pearl  or  Granulated  Hominy 
Maz-all  —  (toasted  cornflakes) 

TT\e  Quaker  O^^^^  (ompany 

CHICAGO 


Hp 'wp 


■^^^'^ 


iiUHDr^lj]  Particular 

?  ?  ? 

•    •    • 

THE  MOST  IM- 
PORTANT article  of 
food  is  milk. 

Bottled  /  The  most  important 

i^  question  is  its  purity. 

'"^  Our  methods  of  pro- 

Couniry  duction,  preparation  and 

distribution    are  such  that  we  are  in  a  position  to 
guarantee  the  absolute  purity  of  our  products. 

A  trial  will  convince  you  of  the  superior  flavor 
and  richness  of  Borden's  products. 

Our  wagons  pass  your  door  every  day. 

Borden's  Condensed  Milk  Co. 

Tel.  Central  4209  42  E.  Madison  St. 

CHICAGO,  EVANSTON.  OAK  PARK.  MAYWOOD 
Phones  at  all  Branch  Offices 


RUMFORD 

The  Wholesome 

Baking  PoAvder 

Complies  in  every 
respect  Avith  all 
Pure  Food  Laws 


Rumford  Baking  Powder 

is  used  exclusively  in  preparing  the  recipes 

given  in  this  book 


Easy  Baking  Days 

You  can  make  your  baking  days 
easier,  because  good  results  will  be 
more  easily  obtained,  if  you  learn 
what  a  marvelously  efficient  help 
you  have  in 

KIIMGSFORD*S 
OSWEGO  sS^SS^H 


Improves    the    appearance,    quality    and    daintiness    of 
many    everyday    foods — bread,    gravies,    soups,    jellies, 
i  pastries,  and  so  on ;  makes  desserts  surprisingly  tempt- 
ing.    The    standard    of    quality   for   over    half    a 
century.     Learn  all  about  it  from  our  book  of 

Original  Recipes  and  Cooking  Helps 

in  which  Alice  Cary  Waterman  and  Janet  M.  Hill 
give  you  the  benefit  of  much  special  study  into  the 
virtue  of  this  wonderful  corn  starch.  Always  insist 
on  the  genuine  Kingsford's  Oswego  Corn  Starch 
if  you  want  the  purest,  most  wholesome,  most 
economical.  Made  for  over  fifty  years  at  Oswego. 
All  grocers,  in  pound  packages,  10c. 

T.  KINGSFORD  &  SON,  Oswego,  N.  Y. 

NATIONAL  STARCH  COMPANY, 

Successors. 


Look  at  the  Cobs 

See  how  every  kernel  of  corn  is  neatly  cut  open 
and  all  the  nourishing,  sweet,  milky  meat  deftly 
removed,  leaving  behind  every  bit  of  the  irritat- 
ing, indige{ftible  hulls.  The  richest  sugar  corn 
grow^n  goes  through  this  marvelous  patent  pro- 
cess to  make 

WINORR  Kernelled  Sugar  Corn 


What  toothsome  fritters  this  makes  — and  what  delicious  pud- 
dings ?  Imagine  a  more  perfetft  vegetable. 
Physicians  frown  on  ordinary  corn  because  the  tough  hulls 
are  injurious  to  the  healthier  of  persons,  but  they  Wrongly 
recommend  WINORR-the  corn  WITHOUT  hulls. 
ASK  YOUR  GROCER  FOR  IT.  If  he  hasn't  any.  it  will  be 
worth  your  while  to  send  us  his  name  on  a  po^-card,  signing 
your  own,  with  your  address. 

Packed    only     by 

The  Pressing  &  Orr  Company,  Norwalk,  O. 


THE  SEELY  SANITARY  FIRELESS  COOKER 

keeps  HOT,  cooks  PERFECTLY  and  is  the  SIMPLEST  to 
operate.  The  entire  surface  of  the  inner  receptacle  and  cover  is 
non-absorbent,  washable  and  accessible.  It  is  a  graceful  metal 
cylinder  and  takes  up  little  space.  Beautiful  art  blue  and  white 
enameled  exterior,  pure  zinc  interior.  High  grade  blue  and 
white  enameled  kettles  placed  one  upon  the  other.  The  seam- 
less cover  is  wedge  shape  and  construction  so  perfect  that  all 
heat  and  steam  is  retained,  and  expanding  foods  gain  one-third 
more  bulk  than  in  any  other  fireless  cooker. 

In  satisfactory  use  by  Schools  of  Domestic  Science,  Domestic 
Science  Experts,  Hospitals,  Sanitariums,  Physicians  and  private 
families  with  and  without  domestics,  from  Boston  to  Honolulu. 

Selected  to  demonstrate  the  Fireless  Method  in  the  Corn 
Kitchen  at  the  great  Chicago  Corn  Exposition  of  1907  because 
of  the  indescribable  delicacy  of  the  product,  which  is  double  the 
quantity  obtainable  from  the  saroe  amount  of  meal  by  the 
ordinary  method. 

A  beautiful  article,  appropriate  as  a  gift  for  weddings,  an- 
niversaries and  holidays.     Indispensable  in  the  home. 

Price:  $6.50,  $10.50,  $14.50.  Time-table  containing  time 
for  fifty  foods,  ten  tested  recipes  and  full  directions  for  Fireless 
Cooking,  sent  to  any  rddress  on  receipt  of  25  cents.  If  not 
at  your  dealers,  write  for  full  information  to 

THE  FRANCES  A.  SEELY  CO., 

5809   Rosalia  Court,   Chicago,   111. 


OCT     Q   1907 


BESS 


