.■•> 


MM: 

mil 


ilk 


■if  iiuilM!*  I 

mm' 
mm 


^ 


6^  /^     7" 

ciV9 .8.0.08,  19. 


^ 


■^ 


FROM    THE 

KNAPP  FUND 


^ 


*\ 


/^r 


\  - 


^^  -^ 


/ 


-.i — 


f{}€J)t4' 


'/. 


/ 


/ 
at- 


nur 


5^f   /r 


»\ 


5^    %  \ . 


'X.: 


THE 

Country  Honfewifc 

AND 

lady's  DIRECTOR, 

I  N    T  H  E 

Management  of  a  Housg,   and    tiie 
Delights  and  Profits  of  a  Farm. 

CONTAINING 

Instructions  for  managing  the  Brew- 
Houfe,  and  Malt-Liquors  in  the  Cellar  i 
the  making  of  Wines  of  all  forts. 

Directions  for  the  Dairy,  in  the  Improvement 
of  Butter  and  Cheefe  upon  the  word  of  Soils  '; 
the  feeding  and  making  of  Brawn  ;  the  ordering 
of  Fifh,  Fowl,  HerbS;,  Roots,  and  all  other  ufe- 
ful  Branches  belonging  to  a  Country-Seat,  in  the 
moft  elegant  manner  for  the  Table. 

Pradical O  bs  e.r  v a ti  o  n s  concerning D  i sT iLt, i N  g; 
with  the  beft  Method  of  making  Ketchup,  and  many 
other  curious  and  durable  Sauces. 

The  whole  diftribured  in  their  proper  Months,  from  the  Beginning 
to  the  End  of  the  Year. 

With  particular  Remarks  relating  to  the  Drying  or  Kilning  of 
SAFFRON. 

^/  R.  B  R  A  D  L  E  y7 

Profejfor  of  Botany  in  the  Univerftty  of  Cambridge, 

and  F,  R,  S, 

With  Additions.  - 


LONDON: 

Printed  for  D.  Browne,  at  the  Black-Swan  without  Temple-Bar  - 
andT.  Woodman,  inRuJfel-ftreet.CovenuGarden,  M.dcc.xxxii. ' 

(Price  2  /.  6  </.) 


'^o6i-n 


TO    THE 


LADY  WAGER, 

Consort  to  the  Right  Honourabie 

Sir  CHARLES  WAGER, 


One  of  the  Lords  Commiffionera 
of  the  Admiralty^ 

AND 

One  of  His  Majesty's  Moft  Honourable 
PRIVY-GOUNCIL5 

This  Book  is  moft  humbly  Dedicated^  by 
Her  Ladyship's  moft  Obedient;, 

and  moft  Humble  Servant^ 

R.  BRAT>LEt 


i^  3 


vr 


T) 


,*«\  A*^. 


^  ;/^-,'  it^  .-4**** 


(vii) 


TO    THE 


L  A    D  I    E    S 


O    F 


GREAT  BRITAIN,  &:c. 


HE  Reafon  which  induces  me 
to  addrefs  the  following  Tiece 
to  the  Fair  Sex^  is,  becauje  the 
principal  Matters  contained  in 
it  are  within  the  Liberty  of 
their  Province.    The  Art  of  Qeconomy  is  di» 

A  4  'videiy 


viii       INTRODUCTION. 

wded^  as  Xenophon  tells  us^  between  the  Men 
and  the  Women  5  the  Men  have  the  moji  dan^ 
gerous  and  laborious  Share  of  it  in  the  Fie  Ids  y 
and  without  doors,  and  the  Women  have  the 
Care  and  Management  of  every  Bujinefs  with- 
in  doorSy  and  to  fee  after  the  good  ordering 
of  whatever  is  belonging  to  the  Houfe.  And 
this^  I  conceive,  is  no  lefs  the  'PraBice  of 
thefe  T^ays,  than  it  was  in  the  time  of  that 
great  Thilofopher  5  therefore  it  may  feem  ne- 
ceffary  that  I  make  fome  Apology  for  the 
Work  I  now  publico,  which,  for  the  moJi 
part,  falls  within  the  Ladies  JurifdiBion : 
but  I  hope  I  am  the  more''  excufable,  as  my 
^efign  is  rather  to  affifi,  than  to  direct,  I 
may  call  myfelf  rather  their  Amanuenfis, 
than  their  Jnftrucior  5  for  the  Receipts  which 
I  imagine  will  give  the  great  eft  Lufire  or 
Ornament  to  the  following  Treatife,  are  fuch 
as  nre  praBifed  by  fome  of  the  mofi  inge- 
nious Ladies,  who  had  Good-nature  enough  ta 
admit  of  a  Tranfcription  of  them  for  publick 
Benefit  5  and  to  do  them  juflice,  I  mufi  ac- 
knowledge that  every  one  who  has  tryd 
them,  allow  them  to  excel  in  their  way. 
The  other  Receipts  are  fuch  as  I  have  col-. 

Ie£fe4 


INTRODUCTION.  u 

leiied  in  my  Travels ^  as  well  through  Eng- 
land, as  in  foreign  Countries ^  and  are  fuch 
as  I  was  prompted  to  enter  into  my  Lift,  as 
well  for  their  Curiojity  as  for  their  extraat* 
dinary  Goodnefs, 


I  could  have  launched  much  further  in  this 
Attempt^  but  that  I  confined  myfelfto  pub- 
lic only  fuch  as  were  necejfary  for  the  Ufe 
of  a  Farm  ;  or^  in  other  terms ^  for  the  good 
ordering  of  every  thing  which  is  the^roduce 
of  a  Farm  and  Garden  :  And  efpe  daily  1  am 
induced  to  publifh  a  TraEi  of  this  nature 
for  two  ReafonSy  which  I  think  carry  fome 
fway  with  them. 


The  fir Ji  is,  that  I  find  many  ufeful 
things  about  Farms  ^  and  in  Gardens  ^ 
whofe  Goodnefs  is  fo  little  known,  or  un- 
der flood,  that  they  are  feldom  reckon  d  of 
any  account y  and  in  moft  places  are  looked 
upon  as  Incumbrances  s  fuch  as  Mufb^ 
rooms,  Lupinesy  Brocoly,  Morilles,  Truffles^ 
SkirretSy  Scorz^onera^  Salfificy  Colerape,  Char- 

z  dones^ 


X  INTRODUCTION. 

^ones,  Boorencoky  and  many  other  fuch  like 
thingSy  which  are  excellent  in  their  kindy 
when  they  are  well  drefsd,  and  admired  by 
the  great  eft  Epicures. 

The  other  Reafon  which  has  induced  me 
to  publijh  this  TiecCy  iSy  the  "Difficulties  I 
have  undergone  in  my  Travels y  when  I  have 
met  with goodTroviponSy  in  many  T laces  in 
England,  which  have  been  murder  d  in  th^ 
dreffing. 


I  could  mention  many  Inftances  as  had 
as  the  common  Story  of  Bacon  and  Eggs 
jlrewedwith  brown  Sugar  :  But  as  this  was 
done  through  Ignorancey  as  the  Story  re- 
lates, I  hope  J  need  make  no  further  Apo^ 
logy,  or  have  occafion  to  give  any  other 
Reafon  for  making  this  Treatife  publick^ 
but  that  it  may  improve  the  Ignoranty 
aptd  remind  the  Learned  how  and  when  to 
make  the  beft  of  ^very  thing:  which  may 
he  a  means  of  providing  every  one  with  a 

tqU" 


INTRODUCTION. 


Xi 


tolerable  Entertainment  founded  u^on  Trac- 
tice  and  Fajhion ;  which  can  never  fail  of 
Follow  ersy  and  of  making  us  fare  much  better 
upon  the  Roads  in  the  Cotintry  than  njiJ^  isiere 
ufed  to  do. 


THE 


THE 


Country  Lady  s 

C  T  OR 


JANUART. 

Shall  in  this  Month  take  parti- 
cular   notice     of   the    Pigeon, 
whofe  Charaderifticks  are  chief- 
ly to  have  fhort  Legs,  and  their  " 
Feet  of   a  reddifh    Colour,    to 
have  long  Wings,and  to  be  quick 
of  Flight  5  in  which  the  fprcading  of  their  Tail- 
Feathers  greatly  Ipntribute,  as  well  as  to  guide 
them  in  t  he  Air.     They  lay  for  the  mofi:  part 
two  Eggs  for  one  fitting,  and  no  more- 5  but 
breed  often  in  the  Year.     When  Pigeons  are 
once  paired,   it  is  obfervcd  they  are  very  con- 
ftant  to  one  another,  and  affift  each  other  in 
the  Incubation  or  Sitting  on  the  Eggs,  as  well 
as  in  bringing  up  and  feeding  the  young  ones  5 
and  moreover  it  is  remarkable^  that  a  Pigeon 
has  no  Gali- Bladder. 

ThG: 


i,  Tthe  Country  Ladfs 

The  forts   are,  firft,  the  blue  wild  tigcoii, 
which  isthemoft  frequent  in  Dove- Cotes,  but 
is  not  very  large,  nor  difpofed  to  breed  fo  early 
in  the  Spring  as  fome  others :  they  are,  how- 
ever, a  hardy  kind,  and  will  thrive  any  where, 
if  there  is  plenty  of  Water  5  for  tho'they  ate 
not  of  a  watery  Race,  yet  it  is  obfervable,  that 
they  covet  to  be  where  it  is,  and  that  they  feed 
frequently  upon  the  Banks  of  Rivers  and  Ponds. 
I  have  known  that  where  there  were  two  Dove- 
Cotes,  that  ftood  within  a  Mile  of  one  another, 
and  one  of  them  was  near  a  River,  and  the 
other  remote  from  it,  the  Pigeons  of  the  Houf  e 
diftant  from  the  Water,  left  their  Habitation 
to  refide  in  that  next  the  River,  even  tho'  they 
had  an  Allowance  of  good  Feed  at  liome. 

Among  the  tame  Pigeons,  thofe  which  the 
Italians  caird  Tronfo,  and  we  Runts,  are  the 
largefl:  5  but  thefe  may  be  again  diftinguifh'd 
under  the  Charafters  of  greater  and  fmaller : 
thofe  which  are  commonly  caii'd  the  Spani^ 
Runts,  are  very  much  efteem'd,  being  the  largeft 
fort  of  Pigeon,  and  are  fluggifh,  and  more  flow 
of  flight,  than  the  fmaller  fort  of  Runts  3  but 
the  fmaller  Runts  are  better  Breeders,  and 
quick  of  flight,  which  is  to  be  efl:eem'd  j  be- 
caufe  if  they  were  to  feek  their  Food  far,  they 
can  range  much  more  Ground,  or  return  home 
much  quicker  on  occafion  of  flormy  or  wet 
Weather.  As  for  the  Colours  of  their  Feathers, 
they  are  uncertain,  fo  that  one  cannot  judge 
of  the  fort  by  them. 

The 


Director.  5 

The  next,  which  makes  the  largeft  Figure, 
bat  is  not  in  reality  the  largcft  Bird,  is  th^ 
Cropper  5  itisfo  named,  becaufethey  ufually 
do,  by  attrafting  the  Air,  blow  up  their  Crops 
to  an  extraordinary  bignefs,  even  io  fometimes 
as  to  be  as  large  as  their  Bodies.  This  fort  is 
efteemed  the  better,  as  it  can  Iwell  its  Crop  to 
the  largeft  Size.  The  Bodies  of  this  fort  arc 
about  the  bignefs  of  the  fmaller  Runt,  but  fomc- 
what  more  (lender.  This  fon,  like  the  former, 
is  of  various  Colours  in  the  Feathers. 

The  next  are  thofe  Pigeons  call'd  Shakers, 
and  are  faid  to  be  of  two  forts,  'viz.  the  broad- 
tail'd  Shaker,  and  the  narrow-tail'd  Shaker: 
The  reafon  which  is  allign'd  for  calling  them 
Shakers,  is,  becaufe  they  are  almoft  conftant  in 
wagging  their  Heads  and  Necks  up  and  down  i 
and  the  Diftinftion  made  between  the  broad 
and  narrow- taird  Shaker,  is,  becaufe  the  broad- 
taifd  fort  abounds  with  Tail-Feathers,  about 
twenty-fix  in  number,  as  Mr.  Ray  obferves,  and 
the  narrow-taird  Shakers  have  fewer  in  number, 
Thefe,when  they  walk,  carry  their  Tail-Feathers 
ereft,  and  fprcad  abroad  like  a  Turkey-Cock. 
They  iikewife  have  diverfity  of  Feathers. 

The  next  1  fhali  take  notice  of,  are  the  Jaco- 
bines,  or  Cappers  :  Thefe  are  called  Cappers 
from  certain  Feathers  which  turn  up  about  the 
back  part  of  the  Head.  There  are  of  thefc 
that  are  rough-footed  $  thefe  are  fhort-biird, 
the  Iris  of  their  Eye  of  a  Pearl  Colour^  and  the 
Head  is  commonly  white. 

The 


^'  Tthe  Country  Ladfs 

The  next  is  the  Turbit,  commonly  fo  caird^ 
but  what  is  the  occafion  of  the  Name,  is  not 
known,  unlefs  Turbit y  or  Turbeck^  is  a  Cor 
ruption  of  the  Word  Cortbeck,  or  Cortbeke- 
which  is  the  Name  the  Hollanders  give  them, 
and  feems  to  be  derived  from  the  French^ 
where  Court  bee  would  fignify  a  ihort  Bill, 
which  this  Pigeon  is  remarkable  for  ;  the  Head 
is  flat,  and  the  Feathers  on  the  Breaft  fpread 
both  ways-  Thefe  are  about  the  bignefs  of  the 
Jacobines. 

The  Carrier  Pigeon  is  the  next  I  fhall  take 
notice  of  5  it  is  fo  call'd  from  the  Ufe  which 
is  fometimes  made  of  them  in  carrying  of  Let* 
ters  to  and  fro  :  It  is  very  fure  that  they  are 
nimble  Meffengers,  for  by  experience  it  is 
found,  that  one  of  thefe  Pigeons  will  fly  three 
Miles  in  a  Minute,  or  from  St.  Albans  to  Lon- 
don in  fevcn  Minutes,  which  has  been  try'd ; 
and  I  am  informed,  that  they  have  been  fent 
of  a  much  longer  Meflage :  however,  they 
might  certainly  be  made  very  ufeful  in  Dif- 
patches,  which  required  fpeed,  if  we  were  to 
train  them  regularly  between  one  Houfe  and 
another.  We  have  an  account  of  them  pafllng 
and  repafling  with  Advices  between  Hirtius 
and  Brutus y  at  the  Siege  of  Modena,  who  had, 
by  laying  Meat  for  them  in  fome  high  Places, 
inftrufted  their  Pigeons  to  fly  from  place  to, 
place  for  their  Meat,  having  before  kept  them 
hungry,  and  fhut  up  in  a  dark  Place.  Thefe 
are  about  the  fize  of  common  Pigeons,  and  of 
a  dark  blue  or  blackifh  Colour,  which  is  one 

way 


Director.  ^ 

way  of  diftinguifhin-g  them  from  other  forts: 
they  are  alfo  remarkable  for  having  their  Eyes 
compafsM  about  with  a  broad  Circle  of  naked 
fpungy  Skin,  and  for  having  the  upper  Chap  of 
their  Beak  covcr'd  more  than  half  from  the 
Head  with  a  double  Cruft  of  the  like  naked 
fungous  Body.  The  Bill,  or  Beak,  is  mode- 
rately long,  and  black.  Thefe  Birds  are  of  that 
Nature,  that  tho'  they  are  carried  many  Miles 
from  the  place  where  they  were  bred,  or 
brought  up,  or  have  themfelves  hatch'd,  or  bred 
up  any  young  ones,  they  will  immediately  re- 
turn home  as  foon  as  we  let  them  fly.  Per- 
haps this  may,  in  fome  meafure,  depend  upon 
the  Affedion  the  Male  or  Female  bear  to 
one  another.  When  they  are  to  be  ufed  as 
Carriers,  two  Friends  muft  agree  to  keep  them, 
one  in  Londoriy  and  the  other  at  Guilford,  or 
elfewhere  5  the  Perfon  that  lives  at  Guilford 
mufl:  take  two  or  three  Cocks  or  Hens  that 
were  bred  at  his  Friend's  at  London^  and  the 
other  two  or  three  that  were  bred  at  Guilford  5 
when  the  Perfon  at  London  has  occafion  to 
fend  an  Exprefs,  he  muft  roll  up  a  little  piece 
of  Paper,  and  tie  it  gently  with  a  fmall  String 
pafs*d  thro' it  about  the  Pigeons  Neck.  But  it 
muft  be  obferv'd  before,  that  the  Pigeons  you 
defign  to  fend  with  a  Mcffage,  be  kept  pretty 
much  in  the  dark,  and  without  Meat,  for  eight 
or  ten  Hours  before  you  turn  them  out,  and 
they  will  then  rife  and  turn  round  till  they  have 
found  their  way,  and  continue  their  Flight  till 
they  have  got  home.     With  two  or  three  of 

B  thefe 


6  The  Country  Ladfs 

thefe  Pigeon  s  on  each  fide",  a  Correfpondencc 
might  be  carried  on  in  a  very  expeditious  man- 
ner, cfpecially  in  Matters  of  Curiofity,  or  thofe 
things  which  tend  to  publick  Good.  1  know 
a  Gentleman  that  has  fet  out  on  a  Journey  early 
in  the  Morning,  where  it  was  judged  to  be 
dangerous  travelling,  that  has  taken  one  of  this 
fort  of  Pigeons  in  his  Pocket,  and  at  his  Jour- 
ney's End,  which  he  tells  me  was  near  thirty 
Miles  diftant  from  his  Houfe,  has  turn'd  off 
the  Pigeon,  and  it  has  been  at  its  feeding  Place 
in  nine  or  ten  Minutes,  with  an  Account  of 
his  fafety.  In  Ttirkey  it  is  very  cuftomary  for 
thefe  Pigeons  to  be  taken  on  board  a  Ship  that 
fails,  by  the  Captain,  and  if  any  thing  extraor- 
dinary happens  within  the  diftance  of  fix  or 
eight  Leagues,  the  Pigeon  is  fent  back  with 
Advice,  which  fometimes  may  be  a  means  of 
faving  a  Ship  from  being  taken  by  the  Py rates, 
or  other  Enemies,  and  expedite  Trade. 

The  Barbary  Pigeon,  or  Barb,  is  another 
fort,  whofe  Bill  is  like  that  of  the  Turbit,  i.  c. 
fhort  and  thick,  and  abroad  and  naked  Circle 
of  a  fpungy  white  Subftance  round  about  the 
Eye,  like  that  in  the  Carrier  Pigeon,  The  Iris 
of  the  Eye  is  white,  if  the  Feathers  of  the  Pi- 
geon are  inclining  to  a  darkifh  Colour ;  but  is 
red,  if  the  Feathers  are  white,  as  wc  find  ia 
other  white  Birds. 

Smiters  are  another  fort  of  Pigeon,  fuppos'd 

to  be  the  fame  that  the  Hollanders  call  ^rai- 

jers.     This  fort  fhake  their  Wings  as  they  fly, 

and  rife  commonly  in  a  circular  manner  in  their 

flight ; 


blRECTOR.  f 

flight  5  the  Males  for  the  moft  part  riling  higher 
than  the  Females,  and  frequently  falling  and 
flapping  them  with  their  Wings,  which  pro- 
duces a  noife  that  one  may  hear  a  great  way  ^ 
from  whence  it  happens  that  their  Q^iill-Fea- 
thers  are  commonly  broken  or  fhatter'd. 
Thefe  are  almoft  like  the  Pigeon  caird  the 
Tumbler  5  the  difference  chiefly  is,  that  the 
Tumbler  is  fomething  fmaller,  and  in  its  flight 
will  turn  itfelf  backward  over  its  Head.  The 
diverfity  of  colours  in  the  Feathers  makes  no 
difference. 

The  Helmet  is  another  kind  of  Pigeon  di- 
ftinguifli'd  from  the  others,  becaufe  it  has  the 
Head,  the  Qaill-Feathers,  and  the  Tail-Feathers 
always  of  one  colour  :  Sometimes  black, 
fometimes  white,  or  red,  or  blue,  or  yellow  i 
but  the  other  Feathers  of  the  Body  are  of  a 
different  colour. 

The  next  Pigeon  I  fhall  take  notice  of,  is 
that  which  is  call'd  the  light  Horfeman  ;  this  is 
fuppofed  to  be  a  crofs  flrain  between  a  Cock 
Cropper  and  a  Hen  of  the  Carrier  Breed,  be- 
caufe they  feem  to  partake  of  both,  as  appears 
from  the  cxcrefcent  Flefh  on  their  Bills,  and 
the  fwelling  of  their  Crops ;  but  lam  not  de- 
termin  d  concerning  that  point,  nor  can  give 
any  good  Judgment  about  it,  till  I  have  (cca 
whether  the  Cropper  be  the  Male  or  Female, 
upon  which  depends  a  Debate  in  Natural  Philo- 
fophy,  which  has  not  been  yet  decided  ;  this 
fort  however  is  reckoned  the  beft  Breeder,  and 
are  not  inclind  to  leave  the  place  of  their 

B  z  Birtha 


8  The  Country  Lady's 

Birth,  or  the  Houfe  where  they  have  been  ac- 
cuftom'd. 

The  Baflard  bill  Tigeon  is  another  fort, 
which  is  fomewhat  bigger  than  the  Barbary 
Pigeon  ;  they  have  fhort  Bills,  and  are  gene- 
rally faid  to  have  red  Eyes,  but  I  fuppofe  thofe 
coloured  Eyes  are  belonging  only  to  thofe  which 
have  white  Feathers. 

There  is  aifo  a  Pigeon  calfd  the  Turnery 
which  is  faid  tohavea  Tuft  of  Feathers  hanging 
backward  on  the  Head,  which  parts,  as  yix.Ray 
fays,  like  a  Horfe's  Main. 

There  is  afmaller  fort  than  the  former  calfd 
t\\z  Finikiny  but  in  other  refpefts  like  the  for- 
mer. There  is  a  fort  of  Pigeon  calfd  the  Spoty 
fuppos'd,  and  with  good  Judgment,  to  take  its 
Name  from  the  Spot  on  its  Forehead  juft  above 
its  Bill,  and  the  Ecathers  of  its  Tail  always  of 
the  fame  colour  with  the  Spots,  and  all  the 
other  Feathers  are  white. 

Laftly,  I  fhall  take  notice  of  the  Pigeon 
caird  thcMazz^mety  ov  Mahomet ,  fuppofedto 
be  brought  from  Turkey  ;  however,  it  is  fingu- 
lar  for  its  large  black  Eyes  5  the  other  parts  are 
like  thofe  of  the  Barbary  Pigeon. 

Thefe  are  the  forrs  of  Pigeons  generally 
known,  for  the  l^ivg^c  Italian  Pigeons  are  only 
the  larger  Runts ;  and  I  am  of  opinion,  that 
the  diverfity  of  colours  in  Pigeons  only  pro- 
ceeds from  the  diverfity  of  kinds  of  Pigeons, 
that  couple  with  one  another  s  fot  I  have 
known  Swine  that  have  been  whole-footed, 
that  have  coupled  with  thofe  that  were  cloven- 
footed. 


Director.  9 

footed,  and  the  Pigs  that  were  produced, 
were  partaking  of  whole  and  cloven  Hoofs, 
fome  one,  fome  two  cloven  Hoofs,  and  the  reft 
whole  Hoofs. 

Concerning  the  Life  of  a  Pigeon,  Ariftotle 
fays,  that  a  Pigeon  will  live  forty  Years,  but 
Alberttis  finifhes  the  Life  of  a  Pigeon  at 
twenty  Years  5  however,  Aldrovandus  tells 
us  of  a  Pigeon,  which  continued  alive  two 
and  twenty  Years,  and  bred  all  that  time  except 
the  laft  fix  Months,  during  which  fpace  it  had 
loft  its  Mate,  and  lived  in  Widowhood.  There 
is  a  remarkable  Particular  mentioned  by  Aldro- 
'vandus  relating  to  the  Pigeon, which  is,  that  the 
young  Pigeons  always  bill  the  Hens  as  often  as 
they  tread  them,  but  the  elder  Pigeons  only 
bill  the  Hens  the  firft  time  before  coupling. 
Tliny  and  Athenaus,  from  Ariftotle,  tell  us, 
that  it  is  peculiar  to  Pigeons  not  to  hold  up 
their  Heads/when  they  drink  as  other  Birds  and 
Fowls  do,  but  to  drink  like  Cattle  by  fucking 
without  intermiflion  ;  it  is  eafily  obferved, 
and  worth  Obfervation. " 

To  diftinguifh  which  are  the  Males  and  Fe- 
males among  Pigeons,  it  is  chiefly  known  by 
the  Voice  and  Cooing  5  the  Female  has  a  fmaU 
weak  Voice,  and  the  Male  a  loud  and  deep 
Voice. 

The  Flefh  of  Pigeons  is  hard  of  Digeftion, 
and  therefore  is  not  judged  a  proper  Supper- 
meaf^  it  is  faid  to  yield  a  melancholy  Juice, 
but  if  boird  arc  very  tender,  or  roafted  while 
they  are  called  Squabs,   'uiz.   Pigeons  about 

B  3  fou 


^lo  The  Country  Ladfs 

four  daj^s  old,  they  arc  much  better  for  the  Sto- 
mach, and  then  commonly  yield,  among  the 
Curious  in  eating,  about  eighteen  Pence,  ox 
two  Shillings  a  piece.  The  Food  which  is  ge- 
nerally given  to  Pigeons  is  Tares  3  but  if  we 
were  to  mix  Spurry-Seeds  with  it,  or  Buck- 
wheat, thofe  Grains  would  forward  their  bree- 
ding, as  has  been  try'd  ;  however,  if  Pigeons 
are  fed  only  with  TarcS;,  and  are  of  a  good 
kind,  we  may  exped  them  to  breed  nine  or 
ten  times  in  a  Year  5  but  fometimes,  perhaps, 
not  hatch  above  one  at  a  time,  tho'  if  they  were 
in  full  Vigour,  they  would  breed  up  a  Pair  at 
one  fitting. 

In  the  feeding;  of  Pigeons,  it  is  advifeable  not 
to  let  them  have  more  Meat  at  one  time  than 
they  can  eat,  for  they  ajte  apt  to  tofs  it  about, 
and  lofe  a  ereat  deal  of  it ;  fo  that  the  contri- 
vance  of  filling  a  (lone  Bottle  w^ith  their  Meat, 
and  putting  the  Mouth  downw^ards,  fo  that  it 
may  come  within  an  Inch  of  a  Plain  or  Table, 
and  will  give  a  fupply  as  they  feed,  is  much 
the  bcft  way.  And  their  drinking-water 
fhould  be  diipcnfed  to  them  in  the  fame  way 
iout  of  a  Bottle  reversed  with  the  Mouth  into  a 
narrow  fhallow  Ciftcrn  j  but  at  the  fame  time 
they  fhould  not  want  the  conveniency  of  a 
Pan  of  Water,  it  there  can  be  no  better  had, 
to  waih  themfclves  in,  for  they  are  of  them- 
fclvcs  a  Bu-d  fubjcd  to  contrad  Dirt  and  Fleas. 
This  is  what  1  fhall  fay  of  the  breeding  of  tame 
Pigeons  at  prcfent. 

As 


Director.  ji 

As  to  the  preparing  of  Pigeons  for  the  Tabic, 
they  are  commonly  either  roafted;,  boiled, 
baked,  or  broiled  ,  thefe  are  fo  generally  uq- 
derftood,  that  I  need  not  mention  them,  nor 
that  Parfley  is  almoft  become  neceffary  with 
them  either  to  be  roafted  or  boiled  in  the  Body 
of  the  Pigeon,  or  put  in  the  Sauces  for  them  : 
this  every  one  knows,  but  that  the^  Liver  of 
the  Pigeon  fhould  be  always  left  in  the  Body 
of  it,  is  not  known  every  where,  otherwife  it 
would  not  be  fo  generally  taken  out  and  loft, 
as  it  is  in  many  places  remote  from  London  s 
but  this  may  be,  perhaps,  becaufe  every  one 
doesnotknow  that  a  Pigeon  has  no  Gall.  As 
to  particular  ways  of  Dreffing  of  Pigeons, 
there  are  two  or  three  which  I  think  are  excel- 
lent, The  firft  I  had  from  a  Lady  in  EJfex, 
whom  I  have  had  occafion  to  mention  in  this 
and  other  Works,  and  that  is  in  rcfpcd  to  broil- 
ing of  Pigeons  whole.  When  the  Pigeon  is 
prepared  for  the  Kitchen,  tye  the  Skin  of  the 
Neck  very  tight  with  Packthread,  and  put  into 
the  Body  a  little  Pepper,  Salt,  Butter,  and  a  little 
Water  at  the  Vent,  and  tie  it  up  clofe  at  the 
Neck,  broil  this  upon  a  gentle  Fire,  flowring 
it  very  w^ll,  and  bailing  it  with  Butter.  When 
this  is  brought  to  Table,  it  brings  its  Sauce  in 
itfelf.  To  thofe  who  are  not  lovers  of  Spice 
or  Salt,  the  Butter  and  Water  will  be  fufficient 
to  draw  the  Gravy  in  the  Pigeon  :  b^at  a  Pigeon 
that  is  fplit  and  broiled  is  of  a  very  different 
Tafte  from  this,  and  not  worthy,  in  my  opi- 
nion, to  be  reckon  d  with  it, 

B  4  A  no- 


1 1  The  Country  Ladys 

Another  way  of  ordering  Pigeons,  which  I 
met  with  by  accident,  and  pleated  me  as  well 
as  fevcral  Gentlemen  in  my  Company,  was  the 
boiling  of  Pigeons  in  Paftc  :  The  Receipt  the 
People  gave  mc  for  it,  was,  to  fill  the  Belly  of 
the  Pigeon  with  Butter,  a  little  Water,  fome 
Pepper  and  Salt,  and  cover  it  with  a  thin  light 
Pafte,  and  then  to  put  it  in  a  fine  Linen  Cloth, 
and  boil  it  for  a  time  in  proportion  to  its  big- 
nefs,  and  fcrve  it  up.  When  this  is  cut  open, 
it  will  yield  Sauce  enough  of  a  very  agreeable 
Reliili. 

Stewing  ofTigeonSyfrom  Monf,  La  Fountaine, 
an  excellent  Cook  in  Paris. 

ICK  and  wafn  half  a  dozen  Pigeons,  and 
lay  them  into  a  Stew-Pan,  with  a  Pint  or 
more  of  good  Gravy,  an  Onion  cut  fmall,  or 
three  or  four  large  Shalots,  a  little  Bunch  of 
fweet  Herbs,  fome  Pepper  and  Salt,  a  Pint  of 
Mufnrooms  that  have  been  well  cleaned,  and 
cut  into  fmall  Pieces,  and  a  little  Mace  j  let 
thefe  ftevv  gently  till  they  are  tender,  and  add 
to  them  about  half  a  Pint  of  White- Wine  juft 
before  you  take  them  oif  the  Fire;  then  lay 
your  Pigeons  in  your  Dilh,  and  brown  your 
Sauce  after 'tis  difcharged  of  the  Bunch  of  fweet 
Herbs  and  the  Spice,  which  fhould  be  tied  in 
a  little  Linen  Cloth  y  pour  then  your  Sauce 
"V^^ith  the  Mufhrooms  over  the  Pigeons,  and 
ftrew  the  whole  over  with  grated  Bread,  giving 
it  a  browning  with  a  red-hot  ^'on  5  or  tlie 
grated  Bread  may  be  omitted. 

An- 


Director.  i| 

Another  Way  of  dr effing  Tigeons, 
from  the  fame. 

TAKE  young  Pigeons  and  par-boil  them, 
then  chop  fome  raw  Bacon  very  fmall, 
with  a  little  Parfley,  a  little  fweet  Marjoram, 
or  fweet  Bafil,  and  a  fmall  Onion ;  fcafon 
this  with  Salt,  and  Pepper,  and  fill  the  Bodys 
of  the  Pigeons  with  it.  When  this  is  done, 
ftew  the  Pigeons  in  Gravy,  or  ftrong  Broth, 
with  an  Onion  ftuck  with  Cloves,  a  little  Ver- 
juice and  Salts  when  they  are  enough,  take 
them  out  of  the  Liquor,  and  dip  them  in  Eggs 
that  have  been  well  beaten,  and  after  that  roll 
them  in  grated  Bread,  that  they  may  be  cover'd 
with  it.  Then  make  fome  Lard  very  hot,  and 
fry  them  in  it  till  they  are  brown,  and  ferve 
them  up  with  fome  of  the  Liquor  they  were 
ftew'd  in,  and  fry'd  Parfley. 

In  the  beginning  of  this  Month,  as  well  as 
in  December y  the  Eel  is  commonly  laid  up  in 
the  Mud,  and  we  find  them  there  in  Clufters 
folded  one  over  another,  which  I  fuppofe  is  the 
manner  of  coupling  ,  for  in  the  beginning  of 
Marchy  or  end  oi February ,  we  fee  young  ones 
as  fmall  as  Threads  on  the  edges  of  the  Waters. 
I  think  it  is  no  longer  to  be  doubted,  but  that 
the  Eel  is  viviparous  j  that  is,  it  brings  its  young 
ones  perfedly  framed,  and  docs  not  lay  Spawn 
like  other  Fifh  :  and  the  Refemblancc  the  Eel 
bears  to  that  Fifh,  which  is  caird  by  the  Fifher- 
mcnthe  Coney- Fifh,  and  is  found  at  this  time 
about  the  Buoy  in  the  Nore  full  of  young  ones, 

makes 


14  T^he  Country  Ladfs 

makes  me  the  rather  conclude  the  Eel  brinss 
forth  its  Young  perfedly  form'd.  This  Fifh  is 
not  accounted  wholefome  at  this  time  of  the 
Year,  nor  fit  for  eating  till  they  begin  to  run  in 
March  s  therefore  what  1  have  to  fay  relating 
to  preparing  Eels  for  the  Table,  will  be  fet 
down  in  the  Month  oi  March. 


FEBRV  ART, 

S  our  Poultry  will  begin  to  lay  plenti- 
fully in  this  Month,  it  may  not  be  im- 
proper to  fay  fomething  of  them  be- 
fore we  proceed  to  give  the  Receipts 
for  dreffing  and  preparing  their  Eggs  for  the 
Table.  It  is  neceHary  to  be  known  firft,  the 
Difference  between  Fowls  and  Birds  5  a  Fowl 
always  leads  its  young  Ones  to  the  Meat,  and 
a  Bird  carries  the  Meat  to  the  Youn^  :  for  this 
reafon,  w^e  find  that  Fowls  always  make  their 
Nefts  upon  the  Ground,  while  Birds,  for  the 
mod  part,  build  their  Nefts  aiofc  i  fo  then  our 
common  Poultry  arc  Fowls,  the  Phcafant,  Par- 
tridge, Peacock,  Turkey,  Buftard,  Quail,  Lap- 
wing, Duck,  and  fuch  like  are  all  Fowls  :  But 
a  Pigeon  is  a  Bird>  and  a  Stork,  or  Crane,  and 
a  Heron,  are  Birds,  they  build  their  Nefts  aloft, 
and  carry  Meat  to  their  young  Ones. 

The  Charaderiftick   Marks  o^  the  Poultry 
Kind  are,  befides  what  I  have  faid  abovC;.  to 

have 


Director.  if 

have  fliort,    ftrong,    and   fomcwhat   crooked 
Bills,  which  are  beft  adapted  to  pick  up  Grains 
of  Corn,  Pulfe,  and  other  Seeds,  which  is  chiefly 
what  thcfe   Fowls  feed   upon  5  and  we  may 
obferve,  that  as  neither  Birds  nor  Fowls  have 
Teeth  to  macerate  their  Food  wath,  fo  Nature 
has  provided  them  not  only  with  a  Crop  to 
foften  their  Meat,  but  a  Stomach  furnifh'd  with 
thick  ftrong  Mucles,  whofe  ufe  is  to  grind  the 
Grains  of  Corn,  or  any  hard  Meat  fwallow'd 
whole,  which  they  perform  by  the  help  of  little 
Stones,  which  Birds  and  Fowls  fwallow  now 
and  then,  and  which  fupply  the  defed  of  Teeth. 
It  is  obfervable,  that  Fowls,  for  the  moftpart, 
lay  a  greater  number  of  Eggs  than  Birds,  even 
many  more  than  they  can  fit  upon  at  one  time. 
I  have  known  about  thirty  Eggs  lay'd  by  one 
common  Poultry-Hen,  but  it  is  feldom  that 
any  Bird  lays  more  than  five  or  fix,  except  the 
Wren,  and  the  Tom-tit,  and  the  Pigeon  not 
more  than  two.     Again,  the  Poultry,  contrary 
to  others  of  the  winged  Race,  are  armed  with 
Spurs  5  and  it  is  obfervable,  that  the  Cocks  of 
the  common    Poultry    difiinguifii  themfelves 
from  diurnal  Fowls,  by  crowing  or  finging  in 
the  Night,  as  the  Nightingale  diftinguifhes  itfelf 
from  the  refl:  of  the  Bird- kind.     As  for  the 
length  of  Life  in  common  Poultry,  Aldrovan- 
dus  makes  it  to  be  about  ten  Years,  but  that 
the  Cock  becomes  unfit  for  the  Hens  when  he 
is  four  Years  old  j  and  we  find  by  experience 
the  fame,  as  well  as  that  a  Cock  fhould  not  have 
more  than  fix  or  feven  Hens,  if  we  exped  health- 


1 6  The  Country  Lady^s 

fui  and  ftrong  Broods  of  Chickens.  About  the 
Laying  time  of  thefe  Fowls,  Spurry-Sccd  and 
Buckwheat  is  an  excellent  ftrengthening  Food 
lor  them. 

There  is  another  thing  relating  to  Fowls  of 
this  kind  well  worthy  obfcrvation  j  and  that  is, 
cf  Capons  being  made  to  bring  up  a  Brood  of 
Chickens  like  a  Hen,  clucking  of 'em,  brooding 
them,  and  leading  them  to  their  Meat,  with  as 
much  Care  and  Tend  erne  fs  as  their  Dams  would 
do.     To  bring  this  about,  Jo,  Bapttjia  TortUy 
in  lib.  4,  Mag.  Nat,  prcfcribes  to  make  a  Ca- 
pon very  tame  and  familiar,   fo  as  to  take  Meat 
out  of  one's  Hand  ;  then  about  Evening-time 
pluck  the  Feathers  off  his  Bread,  and  rub  the 
bare  Skin   with  Nettles,    and   then    put    the 
Chickens  to  him,  which  will  prefently  run  un- 
der his  Breaft  and  Belly  5  the  Chickens  then 
rubbing  his  Breaft  gently  with  their  Heads,  per- 
haps allay  the  flinging  and  itching  occafioned 
by  the  Netties,  or  perhaps  they  may  contribute 
to  warm  that  part  where  the  Feathers  arc  away  : 
however,  the  bare  part   muft  be  rubb'd  with 
Nettles  three  or  four  Nights  fucccffively,  till 
he  begins  to  love  and  delight  in  the  Chickens. 

When  a  Capon  is  once  accuftomed  to  this 
Service,  he  will  not  eafiiy  leave  it  off,  but  as 
loon  as  he  has  brought  up  one  Brood  of 
Chickens,  we  may  put  another  to  him,  and 
when  they  are  fit  to  fhift  for  themfelves,  we 
may  give  him  the  Cage  of  a  third. 

The  forts  of  the  Houfe  Pullen,  or  common 
Poultry,  arc  many  5  but  as  the  ufe  of  them  for 

the 


Director.  17 

the  Table  is  the  fame,  1  fnall  only  take  notice 
of  fuch  as  are  of  the  large  Dunghill  kind,  or 
of  the  Hamburgh  fort,  of  the  Game  kind,  and 
of  the  frnall  T)iitch  kind  ;  which  laft  is  admired 
by  fome  for  the  finenefs  of  their  Flefli,  and  for 
being  great  Layers,  efpecially  in  the  Winter: 
But  it  is  certain  that  the  larger  fort  fell  the  bell 
at  Marker,  and  lay  the  largeft  Eggs,  and  there- 
fore fhould  be  the  mod  cultivated  about  a 
Farm.  As  for  the  Game  Breed,  fome  fancy 
that  their  Flefh  is  more  white  and  tender  than 
the  other  forts  5  but  they  are  always  quarrelling, 
which  contributes  to  make  themfelves  and  their 
Brood  weak. 

Where  we  propofe  to  raife  a  large  Stock  of 
Poultry,  we  fhould  be  careful  to  fecure  our 
Hen-Houfe  ffom  Vermin  of  all  forts,  and  keep 
it  dry  and  clean,  allowing  alfo  as  much  Air  as 
poflible  5  for  if  it  is  not  often  clean  d,  the  fccnc 
of  the  Dung  will  give  your  Fowls  the  Rood  : 
So  like  wife  there  muftbe  eafy  Convenience  for 
perching  of  the  Fowls,  difpofed  in  fuch  a  man- 
ner, that  the  Perches  be  not  placed  over  any 
of  the  Hens  Nefts,  which  mull  always  lie  dry 
and  clean,  bedded  with  Straw,  for  Hay  is  apt 
to  make  the  fitting  Hens  faint  and  weak. 
When  we  defign  to  fet  a  Hen,  we  fhould  fave 
her  Eggs  in  dry  Bran,  and  when  fhe  clucks,  put 
no  more  in  her  Neft  than  fhe  can  well  cover  ; 
for  as  to  certain  numbers  to  be  more  lucky  in 
hatching,  there  is  nothing  in  that :  And  if  \vc 
fat  Fowls,  then  ufe  the  Method  prcfcribcd  ia 
my  Country  Gentleman  and  Farmer'^  Monthly 


IS  The  Country  Ladfs 

T}ire5tor^  in  the  Month  of  January y  whicH 
is  much  the  beft  way  of  any  that  has  yet  been 
difcovered.  In  the  choice  of  Fowls  for  eating, 
thofe  which  are  white  feathered  and  white 
legg'd,  are  much  tenderer  and  finer  in  theii! 
Flefh  than  thofe  of  other  Colours,  and  are 
much  weaker;  for  which  reafon,  thofe  who 
underftand  Cocking,  do  not  approve  of  fuch  as 
happen  to  be  white  feather'd  :  and  thofe  which 
are  black  feathered,  are  accounted  the  hotted 
and  moft  fiery^  and  their  Flefh  is  coarfer  than 
in  other  Fowls.  But  let  us  now  come  to  the 
ufe  of  the  Flefh  of  thefe  Fowls,  which  is  either 
eaten  roafted,  boiled,  fricaffded,  baked,  or  broil- 
ed either  flit  or  whole.  It  is  to  be  noted,  that 
the  Flefh  of  thefe  Fowls  or  Chickens  boiled 
is  more  eafily  digefted  than  the  Flefh  of  thofe 
that  are  roafted,  and  the  Flefh  of  the  Legs  is 
more  eafy  of  Digeftion  than  that  of  the  Bread. 
Mr.  Ray  takes  notice,  that  thofe  parts  of  Fowls, 
which  are  continually  in  Adion,  are  edeem'd 
the  bed,  for  which  reafon  he  prefers  the  Legs 
of  tame  Fowls,  and  what  we  call  the  Wings 
in  wild  Fowl,  that  is,  the  flefhy  part  on  the 
Bread.  Gefner  and  Aldrovandus  have  both 
largely  treated  of  the  ufe  of  the  Flefh  and  Eggs 
of  thefe  Fowls,  but  I  believe  fome  of  the  fol- 
lowing Receipts  for  drefling  them,  will  not 
be  unacceptable,  they  being  more  adapted  to 
the  Tadc  of  our  Times. 

I  fhall  begin  with  fome  curious  ways  of  dref- 
fing  of  Eggs,  which  I  had  from  a  Gentleman 
oiBriiJfels,  who  had  colleded  them  from  mod 
T^2ins  oi  Europe.  Firji 


D  I  R  E  C  T  O  k.  19 

Firji  Way  of  dr effing  of  Eggs, 

Oil  your  Eggs  till  they  are  hard,  and  cut 
the  Whites  only  into  Rings  or  large  pieces  5 
then  cut  fome  Parfley  and  Onions  fmall,  and 
flevv  them  with  a  little  Salt,  Pepper,  and  Nut- 
meg in  half  a  Pint  of  Water,  till  the  Onion 
and  Parfley  is  tender;  when  this  is  done,  put 
in  your  Eggs  well  flower'd,  and  as  foon  as  they 
ate  hot,  put  half  a  Pint  of  Cream  to  them,  and 
•thicken  them  for  ferving  at  the  Table.  The 
Yolks  may  be  fry'd  to  garnifh  the  Difh. 

Second  Way  of  preparing  of  Eggs. 

"O  Oil  your  Eggs  hard  as  before,  and  cut  the 
'^^  Whites  like  wife  as  direded  in  the  above 
Receipt,  and  then  prepare  fome  Gravy,  a  bunch 
of  fweet  Herbs,  a  little  Salt,  fome  Lemon  Peel, 
fome  Jamaica  Pepper  beaten  fmall,  an  Onion 
fhred  fmall,  and  let  thefe  ftew  together  till  it 
is  fufficiently  feafon'di  after  which,  ftrain  it  off, 
and  put  in  the  Eggs  to  heat  them  thoroughly, 
and  then  thicken  the  whole  with  burnt  Butter. 

Third  Way  of  preparing  of  Eggs. 

T3  Rcak  fome  Eggs,  beat  them  well,  and  fea- 
^^  fon,  them  with  Salt  and  fome  Jamaica  Pep- 
per finely  powder'd,  then  make  fome  Butter 
very  hot  in  a  Pan,  and  pour  in  the  Mixture  to 
fry,  till  it  is  hard  enough  to  hold  together  ,•  then 
it  muft  be  taken  out,  and  cut  into  feveral  Pieces, 

and 


20  The  Country  Ladfs 

and  fervcd  with  the  fame  Sauce  direded  in  the 
foregoing  Receipt, 

Fourth  Way  ofdrejjlng  of  Eggs. 

npAke  the  Hearts  of  two  or  three  Cabbage- 
-*-  Lettuces,  a  little  Sorrel,  Parfley,  Cher- 
ville,  and  a  large  Mu|Tiroom,  put  them  in  Wa- 
ter over  the  Fire  till  they  are  tender,  then  chop 
them  together  Very  fmall  with  fome  Yolks  of 
hard  Eggs,  and  feafon  the  whole  with  SaU, 
Pepper,  or  Nutmeg;  and  when  the  Mafs  is 
well  mixt  together,  put  them  in  pafte,  making 
them  into  fmall  flat  Puffs,  and  fry  them.  This 
may  be  diverfify'd,  by  adding  fome  fweet  Herbs 
chop'd  fmall  to  the  Mixture,  before  it  is  put 
into  Pafte. 

Fifth  Way  of  dr effing  of  Eggs. 

T>  Eat  as  many  Eggs  as  you  think  convenient, 
-■^  and  at  the  fame  time  fqueeze  the  Juice  of 
an  Orange  among  them  5  being  well  beaten, 
feafon  them  with  a  little  Salt,  then  take  a  Stew- 
Pan,  and  if  it  is  a  Faft-day,  put  fome  Butter  into 
it  and  pour  in  your  Eggs,  keeping  them  ftir- 
ring  continually  over  the  Fire  till  they  are 
enough,  then  pour  them  into  a  Plate  upon  Sip- 
pets. But  on  Flefh-days,  inftead  of  Butter  ufc 
ftrong  Gravy,  or  on  Fifh-days  fome  Mufliroom- 
Gravy  may  be  ufed  inftead  of  Butter,  or  with 
it. 

Sixth 


Director,  it 

Sixth  Way  of  ordering  of  Eggs. 

Oil  Eggs  till  they  are  hard,  peel  them,  and 
cut  them  lengthways,  then  quarter  each 
half,  and  dip  the  feveral  quarters  in  Batter;, 
made  of  Flower^  Eggs  and  Milk  5  fry  them  thea 
in  Butter  very  hot,  over  a  quick  FirC;,  and  lay 
them  a  while  before  the  Fire  to  drain.  In  the 
mean  while  prepare  for  them  the  following 
Sauce  of  burnt  or  brown  Batter,  feafoned  with 
Sweet-herbs,  Salt,  Pepper,  Nutmeg,  and  a 
little  Elder- Vinegar,  with  fome  Mufhrooms 
ftew'd  and  hafll'd  j  and  garnlfli  your  Difh,  6t 
Plate,  with  fry'd  Bread,  Parfley,  and  fry'd 
Mufhrooms. 

Thefe  are  a  few  out  of  many  Receipts,' 
which  the  above  Gentleman  gave  me,  and  may 
ferve  as  Diredions  for  many  others  5  for  by 
what  I  can  find,  all  the  others  depend  upon  the 
fame  Principles.  The  variation  of  thefe  depends 
upon  the  variety  of  Taftes :  Some  like  Amletts, 
or  Frazes  of  Eggs,  with  Bacon,  or  with  Clary, 
or  other  high-tafted  Herbs,  which  every  good 
Houfewife  knows  how  to  direft.  The  fame 
Gentleman  obferves,  that  Amletts  with  boiled 
Artichoke  Bottoms  diced,  Amletts  with  the 
Tops  of  boird  Afparagus,  green  Peafe  boiled, 
Mufhrooms  ftew'd  and  fliced,  or  Truffles,  thefe 
he  tells  me  are  extraordinary. 

As  to  the  particulars  relating  to  the  drcffing 
of  fatted  Fowls,  the  methods  which  mod  agree 
with  my  Palate,  and  have  been  admired  by  the 

C  bed 


2  2  The  Country  Lady's 

bcft  Judges  of  my  Acquaintance,  are  the  iol^ 
lowing,  which  I  had  from  France. 

To  drefs  a  Capon,  or  other  Fowl. 

WHcn  your  Fowl  is  trufs'd  for  Roafting,  co- 
ver the  Breaft  with  a  thin  flice  of  fat  Ba- 
con, and  put  an  Onion  ftuck  with  Cloves  into 
the  Belly,  with  feme  Salt  and  Pepper  $  when 
it  is  roafted  enough,  take  off  the  Bacon,  and 
ftrew  it  with  grated  Bread,  till  it  is  brown. 
This  is  eaten,  either  with  Orange-Juice  and 
Salt,  or  if  Oyfters  are  at  hand,  as  they  are 
about  many  Farms  in  England^  they  may  be 
.ftew'd  gently  with  a  little  White  Wine,  SpicC;, 
and  a  little  Butter,  which  will  make  an  agreea- 
ble Sauce  for  it.  Or  ^\i^  it  m^ay  be  eaten  with 
a  very  good  Sauce,  which  I  have  often  met 
with,  and  have  lik'd  as  well  $  which  is  made 
with  fmall  Beer  and  Water,  equal  quantities, 
an  Onion  flic'd,  fome  Pepper  and  Salt,  and 
about  an  Ounce  of  Flefh,  either  of  Mutton  or 
Beef,  to  boil  till  it  comes  to  about  half,  fup- 
pofing  at  jfirft'tis  not  above  half  a  Pint  5  and  at 
fome  places,  inftead  of  Mutton,  c^r.  this  Sauce 
has  been  only  made  of  the  Neck  of  a  Fowl, 
This  Sauce,  in  my  Opinion,  has  a  very  rich 
Tafte,  and  has  been  well  approved  of  by  fome 
curious  Travellers  :  Where  we  could  have  this, 
we  rather  chofe  it  than  Wine-  Sauce.  Capons, 
Pullets,  or  others  of  thisfortof  Fowl,  may  be 
alfo  larded  wath  Bacon,  if  they  are  roafted  j 
but  the  Gentleman  sforefaid,  vvho  gave  me  this 
Receipt,  told  me  that  no  Water-Fowl  muft  be 
iardcd  with  Bacon.  To 


D  i  R  E  G  X  o  iij  2  3 

To  farce  or  Jluff  a  Fowl.   From  il/r.  Agnea-u. 

Wi-icn  your  Fov/1  is  made  ready  for  Roafling, 
take  the  Liver  boil'd,  a  Shallot,  a  little ' 
Fat  of  Baeofi,  feme  grated  Bread,  the  Bottom  of 
a  boird  Artichoke,  and  fome  Muflirooms, 
chop  thefe  very  Imallj  and  make  a  fore  ^  Meat 
of  them,  fealbn'd  with  Salt  and  Spices  at  plea- 
fare  5  fill  the  Belly  of  the  Fowl  with  this,  and 
then  triifs  it,  covering  the  Breaft  with  a  thin 
flice  of  fat  Baeon,  and  over  that  put  a  piece  of 
writing  Paper.  Road  this,  and  fcrve  it  up  with 
the  foilow^ing  Sauce  :  Aiake  a  hafh  of  Mufh- 
roorns,  an  Anchovy,  a  few  Capers  and  fome 
Gravy,  boiled  together  with  fuch  Seafoning  as 
you  approve  i  the  Sauce  fhouldbe  thicken  dor 
brown'd,  and  it  is  fit  for  the  Table. 

To  farce  Fowls  another    way.     From    the 

fa^ne, 

^'^  Ake  Pullets  and  roaft  them,  then  take  the 
-^  Flcih  of  the  Breaft,  and  mince  it  fmally 
with  fome  Fat  of  Bacon  boil'd,  a  few  Mufh- 
room^,  a  little  Onion  and  Parfley,  and  fome 
Crumb  of  Bread  foak'd  in  Cream  over  a  gentle 
Fire  5  when  ail  thefe  are  well  minc'd,  add  the 
Yolks  of  two  or  three  Eggs>  and  mix  all  toge- 
ther i  then  with  this  forced  ivieat  fill  the  Breaft 
of  the  Fowls  in'  their  proper  fhape,  and  beac 
fome  Whites  of  Eggs  to  go  over  them,  and 
then  cover  them  thick  with  Crumbs  of  Bread, 
having  firfl  laid  your  Fowls  commodioufly  in  a 
Difh,  and  then  put  them  in  the  Oven  till  they 
have  taken  a  fine  brown  Colour^    If  you  have 

C  %  mor^ 


24  The  Country  Lady's 

more  of  this  farced  Meat  than  you  ufc  ir  ma-^ 
king  good  the  Fowls,  either  make  it  into  ^3i\\s 
and  fry  them,  or  elfe  make  a  Batter  of  Eggs, 
Milk,  and  Wheat-Flower,  and  dip  fma II  par- 
cels of  the  Farce  into  it  to  fry  for  garnifhing. 
You  may  make  a  Sauce  to  thefe  farced  Fowls 
with  ftew'd  Mufiirooms  tofs'd  up  with  Cream; 
the  fame  may  be  done  with  Turkeys,  Phea- 
fants,  (ire. 

To  make  a  brown  or  white  Fricajfee  of  Chic- 
kens.    From  the  fame, 

C*  Trip  the  Chickens  of  their  Skins  as  foon  as 
^  they  are  kiird,  and  when  they  are  drawn, 
cut  their  Wings,  Legs,  and  moft  flefhy  parts  in 
Pieces,  then  fry  them  a  little  in  HogVLard  \ 
after  which,  put  them  to  (lew  with  a  little  But- 
ter and  Gravy,  for  a  brown  Fricaffec,  or  Butter 
and  Water  for  a  white  Fricaffee ;  to  either 
of  thefe  add  a  Glafs  of  White  Wine,  with  a 
Seafoning  6f  Salt,  Pepper,  Nutmeg,  Cherville 
cut  fmqll,  and  three  or  four  young  Onions 
whole,  that  they  may  be  withdrawn  when  the 
Pricaflce  is  enough :  Then  brown  the  Sauce 
with  fome  of  the  fame  Lard  the  Chickens 
were  firy'd  in,  and  thicken  it  with  burnt  Flow- 
er i  to  this  you  may  add  fry'd  or  flew'd  Mufli- 
rooms.  But  for  ^  white  Fricaffee,  inftead  of 
the  browning  with  the  Lard  and  burnt  Flower, 
thicken  the  Sauceswith  three  or  four  Yolks  of 
Eggs,  and  a  little  Verjuice  5  or  elfe  when  the 
Fricaffee  is  ftev/d  enough,  take  off  the  Fat  as 
much  as  poffible,  and  tofs  it  up  with  Creamy 
this  will  ferve  to  fricaffee  Rabbits.  In 


Director.'  %<; 

In  Lent,  and  onFaft-days,  I  have  eaten  very 
good  Soups  abroad,  that  were  made  without 
lany  Flelh,  And  as  chat  is  not  v.ery  common 
in  England,  I  thought  it  convenient  to  bring 
over  the  Receipts  with  me,  that  we  mgy  know 
how  to  make  the  beft  of  every  thing  about  a 
Farm. 

To  make  Fifh-Gravj  for  Soups. 

'T^P  make  this  Fifh-Gravy,  which  may  ferve 
-*-  for  a  Foundation  of  all  jFifh-.Soups,  take 
Tench  or  Eels,  or  both,  well  fcour'd  from 
Mud,  and  their  Outfides  fcour'd  well  with  Salt  i 
then  pull  out  their  Gills,  and  put  them  in  a  Ket- 
tle with  Water,  Salt,  a  bunch  of  fweet  Herbs, 
and  an  Onion  ftuck  with  CloVes  5  boil  jthefe 
an  hour  and  a  half,  and  then  ftrain  off  the  Li- 
quor thro'  a  Cloth  :  add  to  this  the  Peelings  of 
JViufhroomswellwafh'd,  or  Mufhrooms  them- 
felves  cut  fmall ;  boil  thefe  together,  and  ftrain 
the  Liquor  thro'  a  Sieve  into  a  Stew-Pan,  upon 
fome  burnt  or  fry'd  Flower,  and  a  little  Lemon, 
which  will  foon  render  it  of  a  good  Colour, 
and  delicate  Flavour,  fit  for  Soups,  which  rnay 
be  varied  according  to  the  Palate,  by  putting 
in  Pot-Herbs  and  Spices  to  every  one's  liking  5 
this  will  keep  good  fome  time.  When  you 
make  any  of  this  into  Soup,  remember  to  put 
a  Glafs  of  white  Wine  in^o  your  Soup  a  little 
pcfore  you  ferve  it. 


c  I  4 


'k6  The  Country  Lad/s 

A  Foundation  for  Herb  Soups. 
^T^Ake  a  quantity  of  good  Herbs,  fuch  ^ 
-*-  Chcrvillc,  Spinagc,  Sallery,  Leeks,  Beet- 
Cards,  and  fuch  like,  with  two  or  three  laree 
Crufts  of  Bread,  fome  Butter,  a  bunch  of  fwect 
Herbs,  and  a  little  Salt  3  put  thefe,  with  a  mo- 
derate quantity  of  Water,  into  a  Kettle,  and 
boil  them  an  hour  and  half,  and  ftrain  off  the 
Liquor  thro'  a  Sieve,  and  it  will  be  a  good  Poun- 
dation  for  Soups,  either  of  Afparagus  "^vAs, 
Lettuce,  or  any  other  kind,  fit  for  Lent  or  Faft- 
days.  Thefe  Herb  Soups  are  fometimes 
ftrengthened  with  two  or  three  Yolks  of  Eggs, 
a  little  before  they  are  (erv'd  to  the  Table. 

As  in  this  Month  there  is  plenty  of  Oranges, 
fo  it  is  a  proper  Seafon  to  make  Orange- Wine, 
"whichis  a  moil  pleafant  and  refrelhing  Liquor 
in  the  Summer  Sea  Ion.  The  following  Re- 
ceipt is  an  approved  one  for  it. 

To  make  Orange  Wine.     From  Mrs.  E.  B. 

TAke  twenty  Gallons  of  Water,  and  forty 
Pounds  of  ^nc  Sugar,  mix  thefe  together, 
boll  and  clarify  it  with  the  Whites  of  Eggs: 
againft  this  is  dene,  have  two  hundred  middling 
Oranges,  pared  fo  thin  that  no  White  appear 
upon  the  Rinds  j  and  as  foon  as  the  Syrup  is 
taken  off  the  Fire,  put  the  Peels  of  five  and 
twenty  Oranges  into  it  i  and  when  the  Liquor 
is  quite  cold,  put  in  the  Juice  of  the  Oranges, 
with  fome  frefh  Ale-Ycall  fpread  upon  a  warm 
Toafl  of  white  Bread  ;  let  this  work  two  days, 

and 


D  I  R  E  G  T  O  R.  27 

and  then  put  it  into  the  VclTd  or  Cask,  ad- 
ding at  the  fame  time,  two  Gallons  of  white 
jPz?r/^  Wine  ;  and  then  to  every  Gallon  of  Li- 
quor, add  an  Ounce  of  Syrup  cf  Citron,  or 
Syrup  of  Lemon,  and  in  two  Months  time  it 
will  be  fit  to  bottle. 

In  this  Month  it  may  not  be  unneceffary 
to  obicrve  that  Oranges  are  declining,  and 
wafte  apace  ;  but  they  are  commonly  very 
cheap,  and  therefore  fuch  as  have  a  great  Call 
for  Orange-peel,  as  Confcdioners,  ^c,  now 
buy  them  in  quantities  5  but  a  little  Carriage 
by  Land  will  contribute  to  their  quicker  de- 
cay. The  Orange,  tho'  it  is  not  found  in 
every  Garden,  yet  I  cftecm  it  as  a  necelTary 
Truitinmany  Cafes,  and  what  a  Family  can 
hardly  be  without,  and  truly  confidering  how 
good  Oranges  we  might  have  in  our  Gardens, 
and  how  eafily  they  may  be  cultivated  againft 
Garden^valls,  I  much  wonder  that  they  are 
not  more  generally  planted  with  us.  There 
is  a  very  good  Inftance  of  their  profpering 
well  againft  a  Wall,  and  thriving  in  the  na- 
tural Ground,  at  Mr.  Heathers^  a  curious 
Gentleman  at  Twittenhamy  which  Trees  bear 
very  well,  and  bring  very  large  Fruit. 

But  as  I  have  obferv'd  above,  that  this  is 
the  Seafon  v/hen  foreign  Oranges  are  gene- 
rally in  the  greateft  plenty  about  London,  it 
is  a  good  time  to  preferve  their  Juicie  5  efpe- 
cially  it  may  prove  ufeful  to  fuch  as  have  op- 
portunities of  vending  Tmch  in  large  Quan- 

C  4  titles. 


1 8  The  Country  Lady's 

titles,  or  for  fuch  who  find  that  Liquor  agrce- 
sbletothem  :  For  tho'  I  have  known  feveral 
who  have  exprefs'd  the  Juice  of  Oranges  and 
Lemons,    and  bottled    it   up    againft  a  dear 
Time,  yet  fuch  Juice  has  turned  to  be  of  a 
very  difagrccable  Sournefs  in  a  fhor&ftafon. 
The  Method  which  I  have  taken  to^  prefervc 
this  Juice  to  be  ufed  in  Punch,  was  tp  cxprefs 
the  Juice,  and  pafs  it  thro'  a  Jelly^ag,  with 
about    two  Ounces  of  double-refined  yLoaf- 
Sugar  to  each  Pint  of  Juice,  and  a  Pint  of  Bran- 
dy, or  Arrack  ;    bottle   this  up,    and  cork  it 
well  with  found  Corks,  and  you  may  keep  it 
a  Year.     Before  you   pafs  this    Liquor    thro'  / 
the  Bag,  you  may  put  about  the  Rind  of  two 
Oranges  to  ftcep   for   two  Hours,   into  each 
Qiiart  of   Liquor,  which  will  give   it  a  rich 
Flavour.     When  you  have  occafion  to  ufe  it 
for  Punch,  it  is  at  the  difcretion  of  the  Maker 
TO  add  what  quantity  of  Brandy,  or  Arrack, 
he  thinks  proper,  only  remembring  that  there 
is  already  a  Pint   in  each  Bottle.     This  may 
be  of  good   advantage  to  Inn-keepers,    &c. 
who  live  remote  from  London ;  and  by  this 
way  they  need  not  run  the  hazard   of  lofing 
this  fort  of  Fruit,  by  bruifing  or  rotting,  which 
they  will  be  fubjcd  to,  if  they  are  not  well 
packed,    and  have    bad  Roads,     And  befides, 
confidering  the  vaft  difference  that  there  is  in 
the  Price  of  Oranges,  fo  much,  that  at  fome 
Seafonsrvou  muft  pay  as  much  for  one,  as 
will  at  another  time  purchafe  near  a  Dozen, 
it  is  the  belt  to  confider  of  this  when  they  are 

at 


Director. 


29 


at  the  cheapeft  Price.  We  may  likewife  ufe 
the  fame  Method  with  Lemons  i  but  it  is  not 
convenient  to  fteep  any  of  the  Peels  in  the 
Liquor,  for  they  will  giye  it  a  difagreeable 
Plavour..  But  it  is  to  be  underftood  alfo,  that 
Lemons  are  to  be  met  with  in  perfeftion  all 
the  Year  j  only  this  Seafon  they  are  at  the 
cheapeft  Price.  The  Peel  of  an  Orange  or 
two  may  be  put  to  each  Quart  of  Juice,  to  fteep 
as  above  direfted,  bruifing  every  piece  of  Peel 
as  you  put  it  into  the  Juice.  Note,  that  the 
Lemon  and  Qrange  Juice  muft  not  be  mix'd 
\together  in  the  fame  Bottles. 


&^- 


MA  R  C  H. 


HIS  Month  all  forts  of  Pond-fifli  are  iu 
Seafon  5  ^uiz.  the  Jack,  the  Carp,  the 
Tench,  the  Perch,  and  the  Eel  5  but  it 
muft  be  noted,  that  both  the  Males  and 
Pemalesof  every  kind  of  Fifh  are  in  their  greateft 
Perfedion  before  the  Spawning-time,  and  they 
are  fick  and  unwholefome  for  three  Weeks 
after  Spawning.  The  Eel,  indeed,  has  not  yet 
been  known  to  lay  any  Spawn,  but  is  likely 
^to  be  Viviparous,  as  I  have  mention  d  in  the 
Month  oi  January,    The  Jack,  or  Pike,  this 

Month 


so  The  Gountry  Lad/s 

Month  runs,  as  the  Sportfmen  call  k;  that 
is^  they  retire  into  the  Ditches,  if  there  arc 
any  in  their  way,  and  feed  upon  Frogs  j  or 
elfc,  in  warm  Days,  lie  upon  the  top  of  the 
Waters,  and  arc  eafily  taken  by  Snares :  How- 
ever, they  are  this  Month  full  row'd,  and  are 
then  in  their  grcateft  Strength,  and  in  the  beft 
condition  for  the  Table,  We  judge  thofe  are 
the  bell  which  are  broad-back'd,  and  deep  Fifh  5 
for  thofe  that  are  long  and  {lender,  have  not 
their  Plefh  firm,  which  is  reckoned  the  Perfec- 
tion of  a  Fifh.  T^e  way  of  preparing  this 
Fifh  in  the  beft  manner,  in  my  Opinion,  if 
it  is  large,  is  to  roaft  it  according  to  the  fol- 
lowing Pvcceipt,  Vv^hich  I  had  from  Mr.  John 
Hughs,  an  excellent  Cook  in  London, 

HEN  a  Jack  or  Pike  is  difcharged  of  its 
Scales  and  Entrails,  and  well  cleand, 
prepare  a  Mixture  in  the  following  Manner, 
to  be  few'd  up  in  the  Belly  of  the  Fifh : 
Take  of  grated  Bread  about  one  third  part,  the 
Rivet,  or  Liver  of  the  Fifh  cut  fmall,  with  Oy- 
fters  chopp'd,  or  the  Flcfn  of  Eels  cut  fmall  5 
mix  theie  with  three  or  four  Eggs  butter'd 
in  a  Sauce-pan,  to  which  add  Pepper  and 
Salt  with  fome  dry'd  Sweet  Marjoram  well 
poudcr'd,  or  fuch  other  Svvect-hcrbs  as  are 
moft  grateful  to  the  Palate,  an  Anchovy  fhred 
fmalC  and  fill  the  Belly  of  the  FiQi  with  the 
Preparation,  and  few  it  up.  When  this  is  done, 
cut  two  fmall  Laths  of  Willow,  or  any  other 
Wood,  except  Deal,  or  fuch  as  has  a  Tur- 


Director.  3T 

pentine  Juice  in  it^  of  the  length  of  the  Fifli, 
and  lay  the  Pirn  upon  the  Spit,  with  the  two 
Laths  upon  the  Fi(h,  and  bind  them  together 
with  a  Fillet  of  Linnen,  about  an  Inch  wide, 
which  muft  be  wrapped  round  them  in  a  Screw- 
like manner,  and  then  laid  down  to  the  Fire, 
and  bafted  very  well  with  Butter,  and  drudged 
with  Crumbs  of  Bread,  and  the  fame  fort  of 
Sweet-herbs   that  were  ufed  in  the  Mixture 
abovemention'd.     Where  you    have  not  the 
conveniency  of  Oyfters,  or  Eels,  to  compofe 
the  aforementioned  Mixture,  you  may  add  a 
larger  quantity  of  buttefd  Eggs.     Where  there 
is  the  conveniency  of  an  Oven,  we  may  bake 
fuch  a  Fifli  with  lefs  trouble  than  roafting  it ; 
and  in  that  cafe  rub  the  outfide  with  the  Yolk 
of  an  Egg,  and  roll  it  in  fome  of  the  Mix- 
ture abovemention'd,  the  Anchovy  and  buttcr'd 
Eggs  excepted,  putting  fome  Vinegar  and  Bar- 
ter in  thePan.     The  Sauce  to  this  Fifnis  Bat- 
ter melted,  alittle  White-wine,  and  mix'dwith 
a  third  part  of  feafond  Beef  Gravy,  v/ith  a 
Spoonful  or  two  of  Mufhroom  Ketchup,  and 
an  Anchovy  or  two  difiblved. 

The  fmaller  Sort  of  thefe  Fifh,  i.  e,  fuch  as 
are  about  a  Foot  long,  are  mofl:  commonly 
boiled,  but  they  will  do  well  baked,  as  above 
direded.  The  fame  Sauce  may  be  ufed  with 
the  boird  Fifh  5  or  inftead  of  Beef  Grnvy, 
may  be  ufed  the  Mufhroom  Gravy,  as  diredcd 
in  this  Work,  which  will  have  a  much  liner 
Relifn  than  the  Beef  Gravy, 

In 


1 2  The  Country  Lady's 

In  this  Month  likewife,  the  Carp  is  fit  for  tha 
Tabic,  and  is  commonly  much  admir'd,  if.  it 
be  well  ftew'd  5  othervvife  I  think  it  makes  but 
an  inditferent  Difh,  being  a  Fifh  full  of  Crpfs- 
bones.     The  Head  is  accounted  much  the  b^ft 
part  of  the  Pifh,  and  is  therefore  prefcntcd  as 
a  Compliment  to  the  greateft  Stranger  at  the 
Table.     The    Carp,    as   it   is    a    Filli   which 
thrives   bed  in  black,  deep,  {landing  Waters, 
is  therefore  commonly  given  to  tafle  of  the 
Mud  y  but  to  cure  this,  thofe  Carps  you  in- 
tend for  the  Table  fhould  be  put  into  a  clear 
Water  for  a  Week  before  you  ufe  them,  that 
they  may  purge  themfelves.     You  may  keep 
two  Brace  of  large  Carps  well  enough  in  4 
two-dozen  Hamper,  plung'd  into  any  part  of 

River  where  there  is  a  cle^r  Stream,  or 
Trench  that  is  fed  by  z  Spring,  and  they  will 
bei?ome  of  an  extraordinary  iweetTafte.  And 
fe  we  may  do  with  Tench  and  Eels,  when 
we  catch  them  in  foui  feeding  Waters.  When 
your  Fifh  are  thus  purify 'd,  drefs  your  Carps 
after  the  following  manner  : 

To  Stew  Carps  or  Tench. 

TAke  a  Brace  of  live  Carp,  fcale  them, 
gut  and  wafh  them,  and  bleed  them  ia 
the  Tails,  fo  that  the  Blood  be  not  loft  \  for 
according  to  all  the  Receipts  for  ftewing  this 
kind  of  FiQi,  the  Blood,  however  fmall  the 
Quantity  is  of  it,  muft  make  part  of  the  Sauce  : 
Lay  thefe  in  a  Stew-Pan  with  the  Blood,  a 
Pint  of  Beef-Gravy,  a  Pint  of  Claret,  a  large 

Onion 


Director.  33' 

Onion  ftuck  v/ith  CioYts,  three  large  Ancho- 
vies,  a  Stick  of  Korrc-radirn  fliced,  the  Peel 
of  half  a  large  Lemon,  Pepper  and  Salt  at 
plcaiiire,  a  Bunch  of  Sweet-herbs,  two  or 
three  Spoonfuls  of  Vinegar.  This  Liqaor 
fliould  nearly  cover  the  Carps  5  fo  that  if  the 
Gravy  and  Claret,  mentiond  above,  be  not 
fuiiicient,  add  equal  quantities  of  each  till  you 
have  enough  5  cover  this  clofe,  and  fet  the 
Stew-pan  over  a  gentle  Fire,  till  the  lower- 
lide  of  the  Fiili  are  ftew^d  enough ;  then  turn 
them,  and  keep  them  ftewing  as  before,  clofe 
covered,  till  they  are  enough  5  after  which, 
lay  them  in  a  DiQi  upon  Sippets  of  fry'd 
Bread,  and  drain  off  the  Sauce  to  be  th^ken  d 
and  brown'd  with  burnt  Butter.  This  muft 
be  poured  over  the  Fidi,  and  the  Difli  gai« 
nifh'd  with  the  Row  or  Milt,  Barberries,  and 
Lemons  fliced. 

The  fame  Method  is  alio  ufcd  for  ftewing 
of  large  Roach,  Dace,  ^d  Chubb  5  but  a 
Tench  ftew'd  this  way,  is  much  better  than 
a  Carp.  The  Back  of  this  Pifli,  and  the  Hcad^ 
are  the  Pieces  which  are  moil  in  efteem. 

It  is  worth  our  remark,  that  when  we  find 
our  Tench  covered  with  black  Scales,  they 
will  always  tafte  muddy,  v/hich  is  the  fault 
of  the  River-Tench  about  Cambridge-^  but 
where  we  find  Tench  of  a  soldcn  Colour, 
we  are  furc  of  good  Fiili,  that^  will  eat  fweet 
without  the  trouble  of  putting 'em  into  clear 
Water  to  purify. 

As 


34  T^'is  Country  Ladfs 

As  there  is  fomc  trouble  in  the  drcfilngof 
this  Fiin,  they  may  be  flew'd  the  Night  be- 
fore they  are  to  be  eaten,  and  will  keep  very 
welli  and  half,  an  hour  before  they  are  to  be 
ferv'd  up,  fet  them  over  the  Fire  to  be 
thoroughly  hot,  and  then  brown  their  Sauce 
as  b:fore  dired:ed. 

It  is  to  be  obferv'd,  that  to  bake  thefe  lifh 
with  the  above  Ingredients,  is  as  good  a  Way 
as  the  dewing  them.  It  is  likewife  neeefTary 
to  obfervc,  that  all  Fifh  which  will  keep  a  long 
time  alive  out  of  Water,  will  ficken,  and 
their  Flefh  become  unfirm  by  lying  in  the 
Air  5  therefore,  if  fifh  are  to  be  fent  a  Day's 
Tourn(^,  or  kept  a  Day  before  they  are  ufed, 
kill  tf^em  as  foon  as  they  are  taken  out  of 
the  Water,   and  the  Fkfn  will   be  firm. 

I  iliall  add  one  thing  more  concerning  the 
boiling  of  Fifh,  which  was  communicated  to 
me  by  a  very  ingenious  Gentleman,  who  has 
made  Fifhing  his  Study  for  many  Years :  He; 
fays,  that  the  Goodnefs  of  boil'd  Fifh  confifts 
chiefly  in  the  Firmnefs  of  the  Flefh  i  and  in  the 
next  place,  that  the  Flefh  parts  eafily  from  the 
Bonej  to  do  which,  he  direds  to  kill  the 
Fiih  immediately  after  they  are  taken  out  of 
the  Water  5  and  when  you  defign  to  boil  'em, 
put  a  large  handful  of  Salt  into  about  two  or 
three  quarts  of  Water,  and  lb  in  proportion : 
Put  in  the  Fifh  v/hile  the  Water  is  cold  5  then 
fet  them  over  the  Fire,  and  make  them  boil 
as  quick  as  pofTible,  without  any  Cover  over 
the  Pan.     This  is  approved  to  do  very  welL 

*  This 


t)  I  R  E  C  X  O  R.  3  5 

This  Receipt  is  particularly  good  for  boiling 
of  Flounders.  His  Receipt  for  Sauce  for 
boil'd  Pifh,  is  the  following. 

Sauce  for  boiled  Fijh* 

nPAke  Beef-Gravy,  an  Onion,  a  little  White- 
-^  wine,  fome  Horfe-radifli  fliccd.  Lemon- 
peel^  an  Anchovy,  a  Bunch  of  Sweet-herbs, 
boil  them  well  together,  and  ftrain  off  the 
Liquor,  then  put  a  Spoonful  of  Muihroom 
Ketchup  to  it,  and  thicken  it  with  Butter 
mix'd  with  Flower :  or  for  Faft-days  the  Gravy 
may  be  omitted,  and  in  the  place  of  it  put 
Mufnroom-Gravy,  or  a  larger  quantity  o£ 
Mufhroom-Ketchup,  or  fome  of  the  Fiih- 
Gravy  mentioa'd  in  February ^  which  is  good 
to  put  in  Sauce  for  any  fort  ofFifn. 

As  this  is  the  Month  when  Eels  begin  to 
be  good,  I  fiiall  give  two  or  three  Receipts 
for  the  Dreffi ng  of  them  in  the  bed  manner  : 
Thefirft  for  Roafting  of  Eels,  or  Pitchcotting 
them,  I  had  from  the  Crown  at  Bajingfioke 
fome  Years  ago ,  and  that  for  Collaring  of 
Eels,  from  Mr.  John  Hughs,  a  celebrated 
Cook  in  London,  But  I  Ihall  firft  obfervc, 
that  the  Silver  Eel  is  counted  the  beftj  and 
that  all  fuch  as  lie  and  feed  in  clear  Streams, 
may  be  uied  without  purging  them,  as  I  have 
direded  above  j  but  all  Pond  Eels  muft  be 
put  into  clear  Waters  for  a  Week,  at  lead, 
before  they  are  ufed,  if  you  would  have  them 
in  perfcdion.    And  now  to  the  Receipts. 

To 


s6  27?^  Country  Ltidfs 

To  Roajl  or  Broil  an  Eely  from  the  Cro'wn: 
at  Bafmgftoke,  An.  171 8. 

'T^Ake  a  large  Eel,  rub  the  Skin  well  with 
"^  Salt,  then  gut  it  and  wafh  it  well  5  cut 
off  the  Head  and  skin  it,  laying  by  the  Skin 
in  Water  and  Sah  5  then  lay  your  Eel  in  a 
clean  Difh,  and  pour  out  about  a  Pint  of  Vine- 
gar upon  it,  letting  it  remain  in  the  Vine- 
gar near  an  hour;  then  withdraw  your  Eel 
from  the  Vinegar,  and  make  feveral  Inciflons 
at  proper  diftances  in  the  Flefh  of  the  Back 
dnd  Sides,  which  Spaces  muft  be  fiU'd  with  the 
following  Mixture: 

Take  grated  Bread,  the  Yolks  of  two  or 
three  hard  Eggs,  one  Anchovy  minced  fmall, 
fome  Sweet-Marjoram  dry'd  and  pouder'd  i  ot 
for  want  of  that,  fome  Green  Marjoram  fhred 
fmall :  to  this  add  Pepper,  Salt,  a  little  Pou- 
der  of  Cloves^  or  Jamaica  Pepper-  and  a 
little  frefh  Butter,  to  be  beat  all  together  in  a 
Stone  Mortar,  till  it  becomes  like  a  Pafte ; 
with  which  Mixture  fill  all  the  Incifions  that 
you  cut  in  the  Eel,  and  drav/  the  Skin  over 
it :  then  tie  the  end  of  the  Skin  next  the 
Head,  and  prick  it  with  a  Pork  in  feveral  Pla- 
ces 5  then  tie  it  to  a  Spit  to  roaft,  or  lay  it 
upon  a  Grid- iron  to  broil,  without  bafting.  The 
Sauce  for  this  is  Butter,  Anchovy,  a  little 
Pepper,  and  Lemon-juicc, 


To 


Dire  ctorI  %^ 

To  Titchcot  Eels, 

TAke  a  large  Eel,  clean  it  well  with  Salt 
and  Water  both  the  Skin  and  the  Infide, 
then  pull  off  the  Skin,  and  prepare  the  follow- 
jng  Mixture  of  Bread  grated,  Sweet-heiibs  pou- 
der'd,  or  minced  fmall,  fuch  as  Sweet-marjo- 
ram, Sage,  and  fome  Pepper  and  Salt ;  then 
rub  your  Eel  with  Yolks  of  Eggs,  and  after 
that,  roll  it  in  the  Mixture,  then  draw  the  Skin 
over  it,  and  cut  your  Eel  in  feveral  pieces 
about  three  Inches  in  length,  dipping  them 
again  in  Yolks  of  Eggs,  and  after  that,  in  the 
above  Mixture  :  then  lay  them  on  the  Gridiron, 
and  when  they  are  enough,  ferve  them  to  the 
Table,  with  the  Sauce  prefcribed  for  the  roafted 
Eels,  abovemention'd. 

21:?  Collar  Eels  J  from  iVfr.  John  Hughs,  a  fa- 
motis  Cook  in  London. 

T^  Ake  a  large  Eel,  and  fcour  the  Skin  and 
-^  the  Infide  very  well  with  Salt,  cut  off 
the  Head,  and  fplit  it  down  the  Back,  then 
lay  it  abroad  upon  your  DrelTer,  and  feafoa 
it  well  with  Spice,  Salt,  and  a  good  quantity 
of  Red  Sage  rr  inced  fmall :  mix  thcfe  well, 
and  sprinkle  trie  Mixture  thick  upon  your 
Eel,  then  roll  it  up,  and  tye  it  clofe  in  a 
thin  Cioch  at  each  end,  and  in  the  middle; 
boil  It  then  m  a  ftrons:  Pickle  cf  Vinesar, 
W^ccr,  Sail,  fome  Spice>  and  a  Bay-leaf  or 
two  5  and  when  it  is  boiled  enough,  take  out 
the  Eel,  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  quite  cold, 

D  and 


5  8  The  Country  Ladfs 

and  when  the  Pickle  is  cold  likewifc;,  pour  the 
Pickle  into  a  glazed  Earthen-Pan,  and  put  your 
Eel  into  it  to  keep  for  Ufc  5  this  will  remain 
good  (eveial  Weeks,  if  it  is  kept  clofe  covered. 
When  the  Eel  is  quite  cold,  take  off  the 
Cloth. 

The  Eel  is  atfo  good  in  Pyes,  fry'd  and  boird, 
whrcfi  everyone  knows  how  to  prepare. 

About  the  end  of  this  Month,  the  Trout  be* 
gins  to  come  in  Seafon  j  for  before  this  time, 
its  Body  is  covered  with  little  Infects,  which  is 
a  Demonftration  of  its  being  fick  and  unwhole- 
fome.  The  beft  way  of  eating  this  Fifh  is  to 
boil  it,  and  ferve  it  with  Butter  and  an  Ancho- 
vy for  Sauce  5  as  is  commonly  pradis'd  about 
Hunger  ford  J  Spenham-Land^  and  other  noted 
Places  for  Trout. 

If  the  Seafon  is  now  mild,  about  the  end  of 
the  Month  the  Sap  in  the  Birch-Tree  will  begin 
to  be  very  fluent.  And  fo  in  the  Choice  of 
Fifh  to  be  feafonable,  we  muft  have  regard  to 
the  Temper  of  the  Air  ;  for  if  the  Air  be  mild 
and  gentle,  fooner  or  later  all  parts  of  the 
Creation  are  governed  by  it :  but  when  Idireft 
for  this  Month  Or  another  any  thing  to  be  done, 
I  fuppofe  the  Temper  of  the  Air  to  be  what  it 
is  for  the  generality  5  but  the  Birch-Tree  Sap 
we  will  fuppofe  begins  now  to  flow,  and  then 
We  are  to  take  the  opportunity  of  making 
Wine  of  it.  The  befl:  Receipt  I  have  met  with 
ibr  making  this  Wine,  is  the  following. 

To 


Director.  19 

To  make  Birch-Wine,     From  Lady  W. 

Hen  the  Sap  of  the  Birch-Tree  will  run, 
cut  a  large  Notch  in  the  Bark  of  the 
Trunk  of  the  Tree,  in  fuch  a  place  as  one  may 
conveniently  place  a  VciTel  to  receive  the  Sap  5 
which  will  flow  at  the  Incifion  very  plentifully, 
without  doing  any  harm  to  the  Tree,  If  the 
Trees  are  pretty  large,  you  may  exf^eSt  about 
a  Gallon  of  Liquor  from  each  of  them,  which 
muft  be  ordered  in  the  following  manner. 
Take  five  Gallons  of  the  Liquor,  to  which  put 
five  Pounds  of  Powder-Suear,  and  two  Pounds 
of  Raifins  of  the  Sun  ftoned  5  to  this,  put  the 
Peel  of  one  large  Lemon,  and  about  forty  large; 
frefh  Cloves :  boil  all  thefe  together,  taking 
off  the  Scum  carefully  asitrifes ;  then  pour  it 
off  into  fome  Veflel  to  cool,  and  as  foon  as  it 
is  cool  enough  to  put  Yeaft  to  it,  work  it  as  you 
would  do  Ale  for  two  days,  and  then  tunn  it, 
taking  care  not  to  flop  the  Veffel  till  it  has  done 
Working,  and  in  a  Month's  time  it  will  be 
ready  to  bottle.  This  is  not  only  a  very  Plea- 
fant,  but  a  Very  Wholefome  Wine. 

This  Month  is  efl:eemed  one  of  the  principal 
Seafons  for  brewing  of  Malt  Liquors  for  long 
keeping  5  the  FvCaion  is,  becaufe  the  Air  at  this 
time  of  the  Year  is  temperate,  and  contri- 
butes to  the  good  Working  or  Fermenting  the 
Drink)  which  chiefly  promotes  its  Preferva^ 
tion  and  good  Keeping  :  for  very  cold  Wea* 
ther  prevents  the  free  Fermentation  or  Work- 
ing of  Liquors,  as  Well  us  very  hot  Weather  j 

D  2  fo 


40  The  Country  Ladfs 

fothat  if  we  brew  in  veiy  cold  Weather,  un^ 
kfs  wc  ufe  feme  Means  to  warm  the  Cellar 
while  new  Drhik  is  Working,  it   will  never 
clear  itlelf  as  it  ought  to  do  5  and   the  fame 
Misfortune  will  it  lie  under,  if  in  very    hot 
Weather  the  Cellar  is  not  put  in  a  temperate 
ftate,  the  Confequcnce  of  which  will  be,   that 
fuch  Drink  will  be  Muddy  and  Sour,  and,  per- 
haps, never  recover  i  or  if  it  docs,  perhaps  not 
under  two  or  three  Years,     Again,  fuch  A4if- 
fortunes  are  often  owing  to  the  badnefs  of 
the  Cellars  5  for  where  they  are  dug  in  fpringy 
Ground,   or  are  fubjcdt  to  Wet  in  the  Winter;, 
then  the  Drink  will  chill,  and  grow  flat  and 
dead.     But  where  Cellars  are  of  this  fort,  it  is 
advifeable  to  make  your  great  Brewings  in  this 
Month  rather  than  in  October  y    for  you  may 
keep  fuch  Cellars  temperate  in  Summer,butcan- 
not  warm  them  in  Winter,  and  fo  your  Drink 
brew'd  in  March  will  have  due  time  to  fettle 
and  adjuft  itielf  before  the  Cold  can  do  it  any 
great  harm.     It  is  advifeable  likewife  to  build 
your  Cellars  for  keeping  of  Drink,  after  fuch 
a  manner,  that  none  of  the  external  Air  may 
come  into  them  ;  for  the  variation  of  the  Air 
abroad,  was  there  free  admiffion  of  it  into  the 
Cellars,  would  caufe  as  many  Alterations  in 
the  Liquors,    and  fo  would  keep  them  per- 
petuall)    diftuub'd   and  unfit  for  drinking.     I 
know  fome  curious  Gentlemen  in  thefe  things, 
that  keep  double  Doors  to  their  Cellars,  on 
purpofe  that  none  of  the  outward  Air  may  get 
into  them,  and  they  have  good  rcafon  to  boaft 

'         ■   '  ■- ■  -of 


Director.  41 

of  their  Malt- Liquors.     The  meaning   of  the 
double  DoorS;,  is  to  keep  one  fhut  whik  the 
other  is  open,  that  the  outward  Air  may  be  ex- 
chjded  ;  luch  Cellars,  if  they  lie  dry,  as  they 
ought  to  do,  arc  faid  to  be  cool  in  Summer, 
and  warm  in  Winter,  tho' in  realiry,  they  are 
conftantly  the  iarne  in  point  of  Temper  :  they 
Teem  indeed  cool  in  hot  Weather,  but  that  is 
becaufe  we  come  into  them  from    an  hotter 
abroad;  and  fothey  feem  to  us  warm  in  Winter/ 
becaufe  we  come  out  of  a  colder  Air  to  them  5 
fo  that  they  are  only  cold  or  warm  compara- 
tively, as  the  Air  \vc  come  out  of  is  hotter  or 
colder.     This  is  the  Cafe,  and  a  Cellar  fhould 
be  thus  difpos'd   if  we  expect  to  have  good 
Drink,     As  for  the  Brewing  Part  itfelf,  1  fhall 
leave  that  to  the  Brewers  in  the  fcveral  Coun- 
ties in  England ^  Vv  ho  have  mod:  of  them  dif- 
ferent   Manners    even  of   Brewing    honeftiy. 
What  I  (hall  chiefly  touch  upon,  befides  what 
I  fhall  fpeakof  Cellaring,  will  relate  to  Water, 
Malr,  Hops,  and  the  keeping  Liquors. 

The  bed:  Water,  to  fpeak  in  general,  is  Ri- 
ver W^ater,  fuch  as  is  foft,  and  has  partook 
of  the  Air  and  Sun  j  for  this  eafily  infinuates 
itfelf  into  the  Malt,  and  extracts  its  Virtue  i 
whereas  the  hard  Waters  aftring^e  and  bind  the 
Parts  of  the  Malt,  fo  that  its  Virtue  is  not 
freely  communicated  to  the  Liquor.  It  is  a 
Rule  with  a  Friend  of  mine,  that  all  Water 
which  will  mix  with  Soap  is  fit  for  Brewing, 
and  he  will  by  no  means  allow  of  any  other  5 
and  1  have  more  than  once  experienc'd,  that 

D  3  where 


4^  The  Country  Lady's 

where  the  fame  QLianrity  of  Malt  has  been  ufcd 
to  a  Barrel  of  River  Water,  and  the  fame  to 
a  Barrel  of  Spring  Water,  the  River  Watey 
Brewin2;  has  excelled  the  other  in  Strens^th  above 
five  degrees  in  twelve  Months,  as  I  proved  by 
a  fmali  Giafs-Tube  with  a  Seal,  and  was 
much  preferable  to  the  Taftc.  I  mud  obfcrvc 
too,  that  the  Malt  was  not  only  in  Quantity 
the  fame  for  one  Barrel  as  for  another,  but  was 
the  fame  in  Qnaliry,  having  been  all  mcafur'd 
from  the  fame  Heap;  fo  alfo  the  Hops  were 
the  fame  both  in  Quality  and  Quantity,  and  the 
Time  of  boiling,  and  both  worked  in  the  fame 
■jmanner,  and  tunn'd  and  kept  in  the  fame  Cel- 
lar. Here  it  was  plain  that  there  was  no  dif- 
ference but  the  Water,  and  yet  one  Barrel  was 
worth  two  of  the  other. 

There  is  one  thing  which  has  long  puzzled 
the  beft  Brewers,  which  I  iliall  here  endeavour 
to  explain  i  and  that  is,where  fcveral  Genclemen 
in  the  fame  Town  have  cmploy'd  the  fame 
Brewer,  have  had  the  fame  Malt,  the  fame 
Hops,  and  the  fame  ¥/atcr  too,  and  brew'd 
all  in  the  fame  Month,  and  broaclfd  their 
Drink  at  the  fame  time  5  and  yet  one  has  had 
Beer  which  has  been  extrem^ely  fine,  ftrong, 
and  well  rafted,  while  the  others  have  hardly 
had  any  worth  drinking,  I  conjecture  there 
may  be  three  Reafons  for  this  difference  :  One 
may  be  the  different  Weather  which  might 
happen  at  the  different  Brewings  in  this  Month, 
which  might  make  an  Alteration  in  the  Work- 
ing  of  the  Liquors:    Or,  fecondly,    that  the 

Yeaft 


Director.  43. 

Yeaft  or  Barm  might  be  of  different  forts,  or  iii 
diiFerent  ftatcs,  wiierewith  thefe  Liquors  were 
work'd  :  And,  thirdly,  that  the  Cellars  were 
not  equally  good:  for  I  am  Very  fenfible,  the 
goodnefs  of  fuch  Drink,  as  is  brew'd  for  keep- 
ing, depends  upon  the  goodnefs  of  the  Cellars 
where  it  is  kept ;  for  at  a  Gentleman's  of  my 
Acquaintance,  who  for  many  Years  has  ufed 
the  fame  Brewer,  and  the  fame  Method,  his  Beer 
is  always  of  the  fame  Tafte,  his  Cellars,  or 
Vaults,  are  very  dry,  and  have  two  or  three 
Doors  to  them. 

The  "Dorchefter  Beer,  which  is  efteem'd  pre- 
ferable to  moft  of  the  Malt-Liquor  in  Englandy 
is  for  the  moft  part  brew'd  of  chalky  Water, 
which  is  almoft  every  where  in  that  County  5 
and  as  the  Soil  is  generally  Chalk  there,  I  am  of 
opinion,  that  the  Cellars  being  dug  in  that  dry 
Soil  contributes  to  the  good  keeping  of  their 
Drink,  it  being  of  aclofe  texture,  and  of  a  dry- 
ing quality,  fo  as  to  diflipate  Damps ;  for  damp 
Cellars,  we  find  by  experience,  are  injurious  to 
keeping  Liquors,  as  well  as  deftrudive  to  the 
Casks.  The  Malt  of  this  Country  is  of  a  pale 
Colour  5  and  the  beft Drink  of  this  County  that 
I  have  met  with  to  be  fold,  is  at  a  fmall  Houfe 
againft  the  (Jim^nQh^iBlacki^ater,  four  Miles 
beyond  T>orchefier,  m  the  Road  to  Bridport^ 
mT)orfetjhire:,  they  broach  no  Beer  till  it  is 
a  Year  old,  and  has  had  time  to  mellow.  But 
there  rnuft  be  fuch  Cellars  as  I  fpeak  of,  which 
inclofe  a  temperate  Air,  to  ripen  Drink  in  5  the 
conftant  temperate  Air  digefts  and  foftcns  thefe 

D  4.  Malt 


44-  T'loe  Country  Ladfs 

Malt  Liquors,  fo  that  they  drink  fmooth  as 
Oil;  but  in  the  Cellars  which  are  unequal,  by 
letting  in  Heats  and  Colds,  the  Drink  is  iubjed 
to  grow  ftalc  and  fharp  :  For  this  reafon  it  is, 
that  Drink,  which  is  brcw'd  for  a  long  Voyage 
at  Sea,  Hiould  beperfcdly  ripe  and  fine  before 
it  is  exported,  for  when  it  has  bad  fufiicient 
time  todigeft  in  the  Cask,  and  is  rack'd  from 
theBottomor  Lcc,,  it  will  bear  carriage  with- 
out inju.v  It  is  farther  to  be  noted,  that  in 
proportion  to  the  quantity  of  Liquor,  which  is 
cnclofcd  in  one  Cask,  fo  will  it  be  a  longer  or 
a  fhorter  time  m  ripening.  A  Veffei  which 
will  contain  two  Hoafheads  of  Beer,  will  re- 
quire  twice  as  much  time  to  perfect itfelf  as  one 
of  a  Hogfliead  5  and  from  my  experience  Hind 
there  fhould  be  no  Vefle]  ufed  for  ftrong  Beer, 
which  we  dcfign  to  keep,  lefs  than  a  Hogfhead  : 
for  one  of  that  quantity,  if  it  be  fit  to  draw 
in  a  Year,  has  Body  enough  to  fupport  it  two, 
or  three,  or  four  Years,  if  it  has  ftrength  of 
Malt  and  Hops  in  it,  as  the  "Dorfetfhire  Beer 
has;  and  this  will  bear  the  Sea  very  well,  as 
we  find  every  day. 

There  is  one  thin^  more  to  be  confider'd  in 
the  prcfervation  of  Beer;  and  that  is,  when 
once  the  Veflel  is  broached,  wc  ought  to  have 
regard  to  the  time  in  which  it  will  be  expended : 
for  if  there  happens  to  be  a  quick  Draught  for 
it,  then  it  will  iait  good  to  the  very  bottom  ; 
but  if  there  islikeiy  to  be  a  flow  draught,  then 
do  not  draw  off  quire  half,  before  you  bottle 
it»  or  elfc  your  Beer  will  grow  flat,  dead,  or 

four. 


Director.  45 

four.     This  is  obferved  very  much  among  the 
Curious.  • 

One  great  piece  of  Oeconomy  is  the  good 
management  of  Small  Beer  i  for  if  that  is  not 
good,  the  Drinicers  of  it  will  be  feeble  in  Sum- 
mer-time, and  incapable  of  ftrong  Work,  and 
will  be  very  fubjed  to  Didempers  5  and  befidcs, 
when  Drink  is  not  good,  a  great  deal  will  be 
thrown  away.  The  ufe  of  Drink,  as  well  as 
Meat,  is  to  nourilh  the  Body  j  and  the  more  La- 
bour there  is  upon  any  one,  the  more  fubftan- 
rial  fhould  be  the  Dyct.  In  the  time  of  Harvcft 
I  have  often  feen  the  bad  EfFcds  of  bad  Small 
Beer  among  the  Workmen  5  and  in  great  Fa- 
milies, where  that  Article  has  not  been  taken 
care  of,  the  Apothecaries  Bills  have  amounted 
to  twice  as  much  more  as  the  Malt  would  have 
come  to,  that  would  have  kept  the  Servants  in 
ftrength  and  good  health  ;  befides  one  thing 
more,  which  I  obferved  above,  good  whole- 
fome  Drink  is  fcldom  flung  away  by  Servants, 
fo  that  thefparing  of  a  little  Malt  ends  in  lois 
to  the  Matter.  Where  there  is  good  Ccllarinii, 
therefore,  it  is  advifeable  to  brew  a  flock  of 
Small  Beer,  cither  in  this  Month  or  OEiober^ 
or  in  both  Months,  and  to  be  kept  in  Hogfhcads, 
if  poffible  :  The  Beer  brew'd  m  March  to  be- 
gin drawing  in  OBober,  and  that  brew'd  in 
O^ober  to  begin  in  March^  for  Summer 
drinking  i  having  this  regard  to  the  quantity, 
that  a  Family  of  the  fame  number  of  working 
Perfons,  will  drink  a  third  more  in  Summer 
than  in  Winter. 

If 


4^  The  Country  Ladfs 

If  Water  happens  to  be  of  a  hard  nature,  it 
may  be  foftened  by  fetting  it  expofcd  to  the 
Air  and  Sun,  and  putting  into  it  fome  Pieces 
of  foft  Chalk  to  infufe  5  or  elfe  when  the  Wa- 
ter is  fct  on  to  boil,  for  pouring  upon  the  Malt, 
put  into  it  a  quantity  of  Bran,  which  will  help 
a  little  to  foften  it. 

Ifliall  now  mention  two  or  three  Particulars 
relating  to  Malt,  which  may  help  thofe  who 
are  unacquainted  with  brewing :  In  the  firft 
place,  the  general  Diftindions,  between  one 
Malt  and  another,  is  only  that  one  is  high 
dried,  the  other  low  dried  y  that  which  we  call 
high  dried,  will,  by  brewing,  produce  a  Liquor 
of  a  brown,  deep  Colour  5  and  the  other,  which 
is  the  low  dried,  will  give  us  a  Liquor  of  a  pale 
Colour.  The  firft  is  dried  in  fuch  a  manner, 
as  may  be  faid  rather  to  be  fcorch'd  than  dried, 
and  will  promote  the  Gravel  and  Stone,  and  is 
much  lefs  nouriftiing  than  the  low  dried,  or 
pale  Malt,  as  they  call  it  j  for  all  Corn  in  the 
moft  fimpie  way  is  the  moft  feeding  to  the  Bo- 
dy. I  have  experienced  too,  that  the  brown 
Malt,  even  tho'  it  be  well  brewed,  will  foon- 
cr  turn  fharp  than  the  pale  Malt,  if  that  be  fair- 
ly brewed.  I  am  told,  that  a  Gentleman  in 
Northamptonfhire  has  dried  Malt  upon  the 
Leads  of  a  Houfe,  and  has  made  very  good 
Drink  of  it:  And  the  Methodof  drying  Malt 
by  hot  Air,  which  was  once  propofed  to  the 
Publick,  will  do  very  well  for  a  fmall  quanti- 
ty, but  'tis  much  too  tedious  to  be  ever  render- 
ed profitable  i  however,  any  means  that  can 

I  be 


Director.'  47 

be  ufedto  dry  Malt  without  parching  of  it,  will 
certainly  contribute  to  the  goodnefs  of  the 
Malt.  At  the  Greyhound  at  Marlborough  I 
have  drank  of  the  paleft-colour'd  Ale  I  ever 
faw,  and  the  beft  tafted,  and  the  ftrongcft  that 
I  have  met  with.  In  that  place  they  dry  their 
Malt  very  tenderly,  and  brew  with  chalky 
Water,  and  their  Cellars  are  dug  in  Chalk : 
So  at  the  Crown  at  Hockrellx\Q:zx.  Bijhop-Star- 
ford  in  Hertfordjhirey  is  excellent  Beer  of  a 
pale  Colour,  ftrong,  and  well  tafted  j  there  the 
Malt  is  tenderly  dried  and  the  Soil  chalky  :  like^ 
wife  at  Nottingham  and  T>erby  they  brew  with 
pale  Malt,  chalky  Water,  and  their  Cellars  are 
dug  in  Chalk. 

Thefe  Places  are  noted  for  the  Goodnefs 
of  their  Ale  all  over  England,  infomuch  that 
it  has  been  computed,  that  there  has  been  a- 
bove  two  Hundred  Thoufand  Pounds  worth 
of  Ale  fold  in  and  about  London-,  under  the 
Denomination  of  Nottingham,  T^erby,  "Dor- 
chefter,  &c.  in  one  Year  s  time  :  but  it  is  nor 
in  London  that  we  muft  exped  to  tafte  thefc 
Liquors  in  perfedion  5  for  it  is  rare  to  find 
any  of  them  there  without  being  adulrera- 
ted,  or  elfe  fuch  Liquors  arc  fold  for  them 
as  arc  unskilful  Imitations  of  them  j  and  I 
may  add,  are  unwholefome  into  the  bargain. 
While  I  am  writing  this,  a  Gentleman  of 
good  Judgment  in  this  Affair  informs  me, 
that  the  Brown  Malt  he  finds  makes  the  beft 
Drink,  when  it  is  brew'd  with  a  coarfe  River 
Water,  foch  as  that  of  the  River  Thames  a- 

bout 


48  The  Country  Ladfs 

bout  London }  and  that  likewife  being  brevv'd 
with  fuch  Water,    it  makes  very  good  Ale  : 
but  that  it   will  not  keep  above  fix  Months, 
without  turning  ftale,  and  a  little  fharp,  even 
tho*  he  allows  fourteen  Bufliels  to  the  Hoc^f- 
head.     He    adds,  that  he  has  try *d  the  high- 
dry 'd  Malt  to  brew  Beer  with  for  keeping, 
and  hopp'd   it  accordingly  5  and  yet  he  could 
never  brew  it   fo  as  to   drink  foft  and  mel- 
low, like  that  brew'd  with  Pale  Malt.    There 
is    an  acid    Quality  in    the  high-dry 'd  Malt, 
which    occafions    that   Diftemper   commonlv 
called  the  Heart-burn,    in  thofc  that  drink  of 
the  Ale  or  Beer  made  of  it.     When  I  men- 
tion Malt,  in  what  I  have  already  faid  above, 
I  mean  only  Malt  made  of  Barley  ;  for  Wheat- 
malt^  Pea- malt,  or   thefe  mix'd   with  Barley- 
malt,  tho'   they  produce   a    high- coloured  Li- 
quor,  will  keep  many  Years,  and  drink    foft 
and  fmooth  ;    but  then  they  have  the  Mum- 
Plavour.     I  have  known    fomc   People,  who 
ufed  brewing  with  high  dry'd  Barley-malr,  to 
put  a    Bag,  containing   about    three  Pints  of 
Wheat,    into  every  Hogfhead  of  Drink,  and 
that  has  fined  it,  and   made  it  to  drink  mel- 
Jow:  others  I  have  feen  put  about  three  Pints 
of  Wheat-malt  into  a  Hogfhead,    which  has 
produced  the    fame  Effcd.     But  all  Malt-Li- 
quors, however    they     may     be  well-brew'd, 
may  be  fpoiled  by  bad  Cellaring,  and  be  now 
and  then  fubjed  to  ferment  in  the  Cask,  and 
confequently  turn  thick  and  four.     The  beft 
way  to  help  this,  and  bring  the  Drink  to  it 

felf. 


Director.  49 

felf,  is  to  open  the  Bung  of  the  Cask  for 
two  or  three  Days,  and  if  that  does  not  ftop 
the  Fermentation,  then  put  about  two  or 
three  Pounds  of  Oyfter-fliells  wafli'd  and  dry'd 
well  in  an  Oven,  and  then  beaten  to  fine  Pou- 
der,  and  ftirring  it  a  little,  it  will  prefently 
fettle  the  Drink,  make  it  fine,  and  take  off 
the  fharp  Tafte  of  it  j  and  as  foon  as  that  is 
done,  draw  it  off  into  another  Veffel,  and 
put  a  fmall  Bag  of  Wheat  or  Wheat-malt 
into  it,  as  above  direfted,  or  in  proportion^ 
as  the  Veffel  is  larger  or  fmaller. 

Sometimes  fuch  Fermentations  will  happen 
in  Drink,  by  change  of  Weather,  if  it  is  in 
a  bad  Cellar,  and  it  will  in  a  few  Months 
fall  fine  of  it  fclf,  and  srow  mellow. 

It  is  remarkable,  that  high-dry'd  Malt  fhould 
not  be  ufed  in  Brewing  till  it  has  been  ground 
ten  Days,  or  a  Fortnight,  it  yields  much  ftronger 
Drink  than  the  fame  quantity  of  Malt  frelli 
ground  i  but  ifyou  defign  to  keep  Malt  fome 
time  ground  before  you  ufe  it,  you  muft  take 
care  to  keep  it  very  dry,  and  the  Air  at  that 
time  fhould  Jikewife  be  dry.  And  as  for  Pale 
Malt,  which  has  not  partaken  fo  much  of  the 
Fire,  it  muft  not  remain  ground  above  a  Week 
before  you  ufe  it. 

As  for  Hops,  the  neweft  are  much  the  beft, 
tho' .  they  will  rei^iain  very  good  two  Years  5 
but  after  that,  ^ey  begin  to  decay,  and  iofe 
their  good^avour  unlefs  great  Quantities  have 
been  kept  together ;  for  in  that  cafe  they 
will  keep  much   longer  good  than  in  fmall 

Quan- 


50  The  Country  Ladfs 

Quantities.  Thefe,  for  tlieir  better  preferva- 
tion,  (hould  be  kept  in  a  very  dry  Place^ 
the'  the  Dealers  in  them  rather  chufc  fuch 
Places  as  arc  moderately  between  moid  and 
dry,  that  they  may  not  lofe  of  their  Weight. 
I  cannot  help  taking  notice  here  of  a  Method 
which  was  ufed  to  fome  ftaie  and  decay 'd 
Hops  the  laft  Year  1725,  to  make  them  re- 
cover their  Bitternefs  5  which  was  to  unbag 
them^  and  fprinkle  them  with  Aloes  and  Wa- 
ter, which,  together  with  the  badnefs  of  the 
Malt  of  the  fame  Year's  growth,  fpoil'd  great 
quantities  of  Drink  about  London  j  for  even 
where  the  Water,  the  Malt,  and  the  Brewer^ 
and  Cellars  are  good,  a  bad  Hop  will  fpoil 
all  :  So  that  every  one  of  thefe  Particu- 
lars (hould  be  well-chofen  before  the  Brew- 
ing is  kt  about,  or  elfe  we  muft  expeft  but 
a  bad  Account  of  our  Labour.  And  fo  like- 
wife  the  Yeaft  or  Barm  that  you  work  your 
Drink  with,  muft  be  well  confider'd,  or  a  good 
Brewing  may  be  fpoifd  by  that  alone  i  and 
be  fure  that  be  always  provided  before  you 
begin  Brewing,  for  your  Wore  will  not  ftay 
for  it. 

In  fome  remote  Places  from  Tovvns  it  is 
praftifed  to  dip  Whisks  into  Yeaft,  and 
beat  it  well,  and  fo  hang  up  the  Whisks  with 
the  Yeaft  in  them  to  dry;  and  if  there  is  no 
Brewing  till  two  Months  afterwards,  the 
beating  and  ftirring  one  of  thefe  Whisks  in 
New  Wort,  will  raife  a  Working  or  Fermen- 
tation in  it.  It  is  a  Rule  that  all  Drink  (hould 
-*. "      be 


Director.  51 

be  work'd  well  in  the  Tun,  or  Keel,  before 
it  be  put  in  the  Veffel,  for  elfe  it  will  not  ca- 
fily  grow  fine.  Some  follow  the  Rule  of 
beating  down  the  Yeaft  pretty  often  while  it 
is  in  the  Tun,  and  keep  it  there  working  for 
two  or  three  Days,  obferving  to  put  it  in  the 
Veffel  juft  when  the  Yeaft  begins  to  fall.  This 
Drink  is  commonly  very  fine  5  whereas  that, 
which  is  put  into  the  Veffel  quickly  after  'tis 
brew'd,  will  not  be  fine  in  many  Months. 

We  may  yet  obferve,  that  with  relation 
to  the  Seafon  for  brewing  of  Drink  for  keep- 
ing, if  the  Cellars  are  fubjed  to  the  Heat  of 
the  Sun,  or  warm  Summer  Air,  it  is  bcft  to 
brew  in  OBober-,  that  the  Drink  may  have 
time  to  digeft  before  the  warm  Seafen  comes 
on  :  And  if  Cellars  are  inclinable  to  Damps, 
and  to  receive  Water,  the  bcft  time  is  to  brev/ 
in  March  s.  and  I  know  fome  experienced 
Brewers,  who  always  chufe  the  brewing  of 
Pale  Malt  in  Marchy  and  the  Brown  in  0£io~ 
ber  5  for  they  guefs  that  the  Pale  Malt,  being 
made  with  a  leffer  degree  of  Fire  than  the 
other,  wants  the  Summer-Seafon  to  ripen  in  5 
and  fo  on  the  contrary,  the  Brown  having  had 
a  larger  fhare  of  the  Fire  to  dry  it,  is  more  ca- 
pable of  defending  itfelfagainft  the  Cold  of  the 
Winter- Seafon.  But  how  far  thefe  Reafons 
may  be  juft,  I  fhali  not  pretend  to  determine  5 
but  in  fuch  a  Work  as  this,  nothing  fhould 
be  omitted  that  may  contribute  to  give  the 
icaft  Hint  towards  meliorating  fo  valuable  a 

Ma- 


5  2  Tke  Country  Ladfs 

Manufadure  j  the  Artifts  in  the  Brewing  Way 
are  at  liberty  to  judge  as  they  pleafe. 

But  when  we  have  been  careful  in  all  the 
above  Particulars,  if  the  Casks  are  not  in  good 
order,  ftill  the  Brewing  may  be  fpoii'd.  New 
Casks  are  apt  to  give  Drink  an  ill  Tafte,  if 
they  are  not  well  fcalded  and  fcafon'd  fevcrai 
Days  fucceflively,  before  they  are  put  in  ufe ; 
and  for  old  Casks,  if  they  ftand  any  time  out 
of  ufe,  they  are  apt  to  grow  mufty  :  unflack'd 
Lime,  about  a  Gallon  to  a  Hogfhcad,  with  a- 
bout  fix  Gallons  of  Water  put  in  with  it,  and 
the  Hogfhead  prefently  ftopp'd  up,  will  clear  it 
of  its  Taint,  if  the  fame  be  repeated  four  or 
five  times  5  or  burning  ofLinnen  dipp'd  in 
Brimftone,  to  be  clofe  flopped  in  a  Cask,  three 
or  four  times  repeated,  will  do  the  fame  :  or  elfe 
put  Water  in  your  Veflels,  and  throw  in  fome 
burning  Coals,  and  flop  them  clofe,  will  do 
the  like,  if  it  be  often  repeated. 

I  have  now  but  little  more  to  fay  about 
the  Management  of  Drink,  and  that  is  con- 
cerning the  Bottling  of  it.  The  Bottles  firll 
mufl  be  well  clean  d  and  dry'd  5  for  wet  Bot- 
tles will  make  the  Drink  turn  mouldy,  or  mo- 
therry,  as  they  call  it  5  and  by  wet  Bottles, 
many  VefTels  of  good  Drink  are  ipoiled:  but 
if  the  Bottles  are  clean  and  dry,  yet  if  the  Corks 
are  not  new  and  found,  the  Drink  is  ftill  li- 
able to  be  damaged  5  for  if  the  Air  can  get 
into  the  Bottles,  the  Drink  will  grow  flat,  and 
will  never  rife.  I  have  known  many  who 
have  flattered  themfelves  that  they  knew  how 

to 


Director.  51 

to  be  faving,  and  have  ufed  old  Corks  on  this 
occafion,  that  have  fpoilcd  as  much  Liquor  as 
has  ftood  them  in  four  or  five  Pounds,  only  for 
want  of  laying  out  three  or  four  ShiiUngs.  If 
Bottles  are  cork'd  as  they  fhould  be,  it  is  hard 
topuliout  the  Corks  without  a  Screw,  and  to 
be  fure  to  draw  the  Cork  without  breaking, 
the  Screw  ought  to  go  through  the  Cork,  and 
then  the  Air  muft  nccclTarily  find  a  Paflage 
where  the  Screw  has  pafs'd,  and  therefore  the 
Cork  is  good  for  nothing  5  or  if  a  Cork  has 
once  been  in  a  Bottle,  and  has  been  drawn 
without  a  Screw,  yet  that  Cork  will  turn  mufty 
as  foon  as  it  is  expo  fed  to  the  Air,  and  will 
communicate  its  ill  Flavour  to  the  Bottle  where 
if  is  next  put,  and  fpoil  the  Drink  that  way. 

In  the  choice  of  Corks,  chufe  thofe  that  are 
foft,  and  clear  from  Specks,  and  lay  them  ia 
Water  a  day  or  two  before  you  ufe  them  5  but 
let  them  dry  again  before  you  put  them  in  the 
Bottles,  left  the5^  fhould  happen  to  turn  mouldy  : 
with  this  care  you  may  make  good  Drink,  and 
preferve  it  to  anfwer  your  expedation. 

In  the  bottling  of  Drink,  you  may  alfo  ob- 
ferve,  that  the  top  and  middle  of  the  Hogfhead 
is  the  ftrongeft,  and  will  fooner  rife  in  the  Bot- 
tles than  the  bottom  :  And  when  once  you 
begin  to  bottle  a  Veffel  of  any  Liquor,  be  fure 
not  to  leave  it  till  all  is  complcated,  for  elfe 
you  will  have  fome  of  one  Tafte,  and  fome  of 
another. 

If  you  find  that  a  VefTel  of  Drink  begins  to 
gtow  flat,  whilft  it  is  in  common  draught,  bot- 


54  The  Country  Ladfs 

tie  it,  and  into  every  Bottle  put  a  piece  of 
Loaf- Sugar,  about  the  quantity  of  a  Walnut, 
which  will  make  the  Drink  rife  and  come  to 
itfelf ;  and  to  forward  its  ripening,  you  may 
fetfome  Bottles  in  Hay  in  a  warm  Place;  but 
Straw  will  not  aflift  its  ripening. 

Where  there  are  not  good  Cellars,  I  have 
known  Holes  funk  in  the  Ground,  and  large 
Oil  Jars  put  into  them,  and  the  Earth  filled 
clofe  about  the  fides :  One  of  thefe  Jars  may 
hold  about  a  dozen  quart  Bottles,  and  will  keep 
the  Drink  very  well  i  but  the  tops  of  the  Jars 
muft  be  kept  clofe  covered  up.  And  in  Winter 
time,  when  the  Weather  is  frofty,  fhut  up  all 
the  Lights  or  Windows  into  fuch  Cellars,  and 
cover  them  clofe  with  frefh  Horfe-Dung,  or 
Horfe- Litter  5  but 'tis  much  better  to  have  no 
Lights  or  Windows  at  all  to  any  Cellar,  for 
the  reafons  I  have  given  above. 

If  there  has  been  opportunity  of  brewing  a 
good  ftock  of  Small  Beer  m March  and  OBo- 
bery  fome  of  it  may  be  bottled  at  fix  Months 
end,  putting  into  every  Bottle  a  lump  of  Loaf- 
Sugar  as  big  as  a  Walnut  i  this  efpecially  will 
be  very  refrefhing  Drink  in  the  Summer  :  Or 
if  you  happen  to  brew  in  Summer,  and  are  de- 
firous  ot  brisk  Small  Beer,  bottle  it,  as  above,, 
as  loon  as  it  has  done  working. 


ATRIL 


Director. 


55 


APRIL. 


ROM  the  beginning  of  this  Month 
the  Perch  is  in  great  Perfedion,  and 
holds  good  till  Winter.  One  of  the 
ways  of  drefling  this  Fifh,  according 
to  the  Hollanders y  and  which  is  much  admired 
by  Travellers,  is  after  the  following  manner, 
and  is  called  IVater-Soochy, 

To  make  a  Water-Soochy. 

TAKE  Perch  about  five  Inches  long,  fcale 
and  clean  them  well  5  then  lay  them  in  a 
Difh,  and  pour  Vinegar  upon  them,  and  let 
them  lie  an  Hour  in  it  5  after  which  put  them 
into  a  Skellet  with  Water  and  Salt,  fomcParf^ 
ley-Leaves  and  ParQey-Roots  well  wafh'd  and 
fcraped :  let  thefe  boil  over  a  quick  Fire  till 
they  are  enough,  and  then  pour  the  Fifh,  Roots, 
and  Water  into  a  Soop-Dlfh,  and  ferve  them  up 
hot  with  a  Garnifh  about  the  Difli  of  Lemon 
iliccd.  Thefe  Fifh  and  Roots  are  commonly 
eaten  with  Bread  and  Butter  in  Holland,  or 
there  may  be  melted  Butter  ii^  a  little  Bafon 
for  thofe  who  chufe  it.  It  is  to  be  noted,  that 
the  Parfley-Roots  muft  be  taken  before  they 
run  to  Seed ;  and  if  they  happen  to  be  very 
iargC;,  they  fhould  be  boiled  by  themfelves,  for 

E  2  they 


5  6  The  Country  Ladfs 

they  will  require  more  boiling  than  the  Fifll. 
This  I  had  fi-om  Mr.  Rozelli  at  the  Hague, 

The  following  Receipt  for  drelling  of  Perch, 
I  had  like  wife  from  the  fame  Perfon,  and  is  an 
excellent  Difh. 

To  prepare  Terch  with  Mufbrooms. 

PICK,  and  clean,  and  cut  your  Mufhrooms 
into  fmail  pieces,  and  put  them  in  a  Sauce- 
pan to  flew  tender  witiiout  any  Liquor,  but 
what  will  come  from  them  ,  then  pour  off  their 
Liquor  and  put  a  little  Cream  to  tiiem  5  having 
ready  at  the  fame  time  a  Brace  of  large  Perch 
well  fcaied,  wafh'd,  and  cut  in  Fillets  or  thick 
Slices,  and  parboil'd  :  Put  your  Perch  thus  pre- 
pared to  your  Mulhrooms,  and  with  them  the 
Yolks  of  three  Eggs  beaten,  fome  Parfley  boifd 
^nd  cut  fmall,  fome  Nutmeg  grated,  a  little 
Salt,  and  a  little  Lemon-Juice  :  keep  all  thefe 
flirring  gently  over  a  flow  Fire,  taking  care  not 
to  break  your  Fifh  ,•  and  when  they  are  enough, 
garnifh  them  with  Slices  ot  Lemon  and  pickled 
Barberries. 

The  following  general  Sauce  I  had  from  the 
fame  Perfon  5  it  is  always  ready  to  be  ufed  with 
every  kind  of  Flefh,  Fowl,  or  Fifh  that  require 
rich  Sauces,  and  will  keep  good  twelve  Months. 

ji  Travelling  Sauce. 

'^T^  A  K  E  two  Quarts  of  Claret,  a  quarter  of 
-^  a  Pint  of  Vinegar,  and  as  much  Verjuice  5 
put  thefe  together  in  a  new  Stone-Jar  that  will 
admit  of  being  flopp'd  cloie :  Put  to  this  a 
quarter  of  a  Pound  of  Salt  that  has  been  well 

dry'd 


Director.  57 

dry*d  over  the  Pire,  an  Ounce  of  Black-Pcppcr, 
a  Drachm  of  Nutmeg  beaten  fine,  and  as  much 
Cloves,  a  Scruple  of  Ginger,  two  or  three  little 
Bits  of  dry'd  Orangc-Peel,  half  an  Ounce  of 
Muftard'Seed   bruifed,    half  a  dozen  Shallots 
bruifed  a  little,  five  or  fix  Bay-Leaves,  a  little 
Sprig   of  Sweet  Bafil,    or  Sweet  Marjoram,  a 
Sprig  of  Thyme,  and  a  little  Cinnamon  ;  then 
flop  your  Jar  clofe,  and  let  the  Mixture  infufe 
for  twenty-four  Hours  upon  hot  Embers :  when 
this  is  done,  ftrain  your  Compofition  through 
a  Linnen  Cloth,  till  you  have  exprcfs'd  as  much 
Liquor  as  poflible,  and  put  it  in  a  dry  Stone 
Bottle  or  Jar,  and  flop  it  clofe  as  foon  as  'tis 
cold.     You  muft  keep  this  in  a  dry  Place,  and 
it  will  remain  good  twelve  Months.     This  is 
a  good  Companion  for  Travellers,  who  more 
frequently  find  good  Meat  than  good  Cooks. 
My  Author  adds,  that  thofe  who  are  Admirers 
of  the  Tafte  of  Garlick,  may  add  it  to  this  Sauce, 
or  diminifh,  or  lesve  our  any  particular  Ingre- 
dient that  they  do  not  approve  of.     It  may  alfo 
be  made  of  Water  only,  or  of  Verjuice,  or 
of  Wine,  or  of  Orange  or  Lemon-Juice  5  but 
if  it  is   made  of  Water,   it  will   keep  but   a 
Month  good  :  if  it  be  made  of  Verjuice,  it  will 
laftgood  three  Months  5  if  we  make  it  of  Vi- 
negar, it  will  laft  a  Year  5  or  of  Wine,  it  will 
laft  as  long.     Ufe  a  little  of  this  at  a  timej  ■ 
ftirringit  well  when  you  ufe  it. 

In  this  Month  I  likewife  judge  it  will  be  a 
good  Seafon  to  make  the  following  curious  Pre- 
paration for  the  ufe  of  Gentlemen  that  travel  i 

E  3  the 


5  $  The  Country  Ladfs 

thcufc  of  which  I  eftecm  to  be  of  extraordinarj 
Service  to  fuch  as  travel  in  wild  and  open 
Countries,  where  few  or  no  Prcvifions  are  to 
be  met  with  5  and  it  will  be  of  no  lefs  Benefit 
to  fuch  Families  as  have  not  immediate  Re- 
courfe  to  Markets,  for  the  Readinels  of  it  for 
making  of  Soups,  or  its  Ufe  where  Gravey  is 
required  :  and  particularly  to  thofe  that  travel, 
the  lightnefs  of  its  Carriage,  the  fmali  room 
it  takes  up,  and  the  eafy  way  of  putting  it  in 
ufe,  renders  it  extremely  ferviceable.  This  is 
what  one  may  call  Veal- Glue. 

To  make  Veal-Glue^  or  Cake- Soupy  to  be  car- 
ried in  the  Tocket. 

TAke  a  Leg  of  Veal,  ftrip  it  of  the  Skia 
and  the  Far,  then  take  all  the  Mufcular 
or  Flelliy  Parts  from  the  Bones  5  boil  this  Flefh 
gently  in  fuch  a  quantity  of  Water,  and  fo 
long  a  time,  till  the  Liquor  will  make  a  rtrong 
Jelly  when  'tis  cold :  this  you  may  try  by  ta- 
jcing  out  a  fmall  Spoonful  now  and  then,  and 
letting  it  cool.  Here  it  is  to  be  fuppofed,  that 
tho'  it  will  jelly  prefently  in  fmall  quantities, 
yet  all  the  Juice  of  the  Meat  may  not  be  ex- 
tradled  i  however,when  you  find  it  very  ftrong> 
ftrain  the  Liquor  thro'  a  Sieve,  and  let  it  fettle  3 
then  provide  a  large  Stew-pan  with  Water,  and 
fomc  China- Cups,  or  glazed  Earthen- Ware  i 
fiUthefc  Cups  with  the  Jelly  taken  clear  irdm 
the  Settling,  and  fet  them  in  the  Stew-pan  of 
Water,  and  let  the  Water  boil  gently  till  the 
Jelly  becomes  thick  as  Glue  :  after  which,  let 

them 


D  I  R  E  C  T  aR.  S? 

them  {land  to  cool,  and  then  turn  out  the  Glue 
upon  a  piece  of  new  Flannel,  which  will  draw 
cue  the  Moifture ;  turn  them  in  fix  or  eight 
Hours,  and  put  them  upon  a  frefh  Flannel, 
and  fo  continue  to  do  till  they  are  quite  dry, 
and  keep  it  in  a  dry  warm  Place  :  this  will 
harden  fo  much,  that  it  will  be  ftiffand  hard  as 
Glue  in  a  little  time,  and  may  be  carry'd  in  the 
Pocket  without  Inconvenience.  We  are  to 
ufe  this  by  boiling  about  a  Pint  of  Water,  and 
pouring  it  upon  a  piece  of  the  Glue  or  Cake,  of 
the  bigncfs  of  a  fmall  Walnut,  and  ftirring  it 
with  a  Spoon  till  the  Cake  diffolvcs,  which 
will  make  very  ftrong  good  Broth.  As  for  the 
Seafoning  Part,  every  one  may  add  Pepper  and 
Salt  as  they  pleafe,  for  there  muft  be  nothing  of 
that  kind  put  among  the  Veal  when  we  make 
the  Glue,  for  any  thing  of  that  fort  would 
make  it  mouldy.  Some  of  this  fort  of  Cake- 
Gravey  has  lately  been  fold,  as  I  am  informed, 
at  fome  of  the  Taverns  near  Temple-Bar, 
where,  I  fuppofe,  it  may  now  be  had.  As  I 
have  obferv'd  above,  that  there  is  nothing  of 
Seafoning  in  this  Soup,  fo  there  may  be  always 
added  what  we  defire,  either  of  Spices  or  Herbs, 
to  make  it  favoury  to  the  Palate;  but  it  muft  be 
-noted,  that  all  the  Herbs  that  are  ufed  on  this 
occafion,  muft  be  boiled  tender  in  plain  Wa- 
ter, and  that  Water  muft  be  ufed  to  pour  upon 
the  CakeGravey  infteadof  fimple  Water  :  fo 
mayaDifh  of  good  Soup  be  made  wirhout  trou- 
ble, only  allowing  the  Proportion  of  Cakc-Gra- 
vey  anfwering  to  theabovefaid  Djie:fion.  Ori 

E  4^  Grave  ^ 


6^  The  Country  Ladfs 

Gravcy  be  wanted  for  Sauce,  double  the  Quan- 
tity may  be  ulcd  that  is  prcfcribcd  for  Broth  or 
Soup.  I  am  informed  by  aPcrfon  of  Honour, 
that  upon  this  Foundation,  there  has  been  made 
a  Cakc-Gravey  of  Beef,  which  for  high  Sauces 
and  flrong  Stomachs,  is  dill  of  good  ufe  ;  and 
therefore  Iihall  here  give  the  Method  of  it. 

To  make  Cake-Sotip  of  Beef,  &c. 

TAKE  a  Leg,  or  what  they  call  in  fomc 
Places  a  Shin  of  Beef,  prepare  it  aspre- 
fcribed  above  for  the  Leg  of  Veal,  and  ufe 
the  mufcular  Parts  only,  as  directed  in  the  fore- 
going Receipt ;  do  every  thing  as  abovcmen- 
tion'd,  and  you  will  have  a  Beef-Glue,  which, 
for  Sauces,  may  be  more  defirable  in  a  Coun- 
try-Houfe,  as  Beef  is  of  the  ftrongeft  nature  of 
any  Flcfh.  Some  prefcribeto  add  totheFlefh 
of  the  Leg  of  Beef,  the  Flelh  of  two  old  Hares, 
and  of  old  Cocks  to  ftrengthen  it  the  more  i 
this  may  be  done  at  pleafurc,  but  the  Founda- 
tion of  ail  thefe  Cake  Graveys  or  Glues  is  the 
fuft.  Thefe  indeed  are  good  for  Soups  and 
Sauces,  and  may  beenrich'd  by  Cellary,  Cher- 
villcj  beat  Chards,  Leeks,  or  other  Soup>Herbs. 
A  little  of  this  is  alfo  good  to  put  .into  Sauces, 
cither  of  Flcfli,  Fifh,  or  Fowl,  and  will  make 
a  fine  mixture  v,dth  the  Travelling  Sauce.  So 
that  whenever  there  is  mentioned  the  Ufe  of 
Gravey  in  any  of  the  Receipts  contamed  in  this 
Trcatife,  this  may  be  ufed  on  Feall-days,  and 
the  Mufnroom  Gravcy,  or  Travelling  Sauce 
on  Fad- day 6. 

This 


p 


Director.  CX 

This  is  alfo  a  time  of  the  Year  when  pot- 
ted Meats  begin  to  come  in  falhion  ;  to  do 
which,  the  following  Receipt  may  be  an  Exam- 
ple. 

To  pot  a  Leg  of  Beef  to  imitate  potted  VenifoUy 
from  Col.  Bradbury  <?/'Wicken-Hall. 
Kovide  a  Leg  of  Beef,  and  take  off  the  Skin 
as  whole  as  you  can,  then  cut  off  all  the 
Flefh,  and  feafon  it  with  Pepper,  Salt,  and  Ail» 
fpice  5  then  break  the  Bones  and  take  out  what 
Marrow  you  can  to  mix  among  your  flices  of 
Beef,  which  muft  be  put  in  a  deep  Earthen  Pot; 
cover  then  the  whole  with  the  Skin,  and  lay 
the  Bones  over  that,  covering  all  with  Paper, 
and  tying  it  down  clofe  ;  after  which,  bake  it 
with  great  Bread,  and  let  it  ftand  in  the  Oven 
all  Night.  When  this  is  done,  take  off  the 
Bones  and  the  Skin,  and  clear  it  from  the  Li- 
quor as  well  as  you  can,  then  put  the  Meat  into 
a  Wooden  Bowl,  and  beat  it  as  flnall  as  poUiblc 
with  a  Wooden  Pcftle,  often  putting  in  feme 
Butter,  and  fome  of  the  Fat  of  the  Marrow, 
which  will  fwim  upon  the  Gravey,  but  lufFer 
none  of  the  Gravey  to  go  in  with  it :  when  this 
is  beat  enough,  while  it  is  warm,  butter  the 
Bottom  and  Sides  of  the  Pan  which  you  de- 
fign  to  keep  it  in,  and  prefs  down  your  Meat 
in  it  as  hard  as  poliible  5  when  that  is  done, 
cover  it  with  melted  Butter.  If  you  would 
have  your  Meat  look  red,  rub  it  with  a  little 
Salt-peter  before  you  fealon  it.  By  the  fame  Me- 
thod you  may  pot  Venifon,  Mutton,  or  what 

Fklh 


62  The  Country  Ladfs^ 

Plcfh  elfe  you  pleafe,  obferving  that  'tis  onljr 
the  flelliy  or  mufcular  Parts  that  are  ufed  ia 
that  way  ^  and  that  they  muft  be  feafon'd  and 
baked  till  they  are  tender,  and  then  beat  intOi 
a  Ibrt  ofPafte,  with  a  little  Butter  added  now 
and  then  while  the  Meat  is  beating.  Keep 
thetc  Meats  in  a  cool  dry  Place,  and  you  may 
prefcrve  them  good  feveral  Weeks.  If  you  de- 
iire  to  pot  a  Hare,  take  the  following  Receipts 

To  Tot  a  HarCy  from  the  fame. 

""I^Ake  a  Hare  and  bone  it,  then  mince  the 
-*-     Flefh  very  fmall,  with  a  Pound  of  the  Fat 
of  Bacon  5  after  which,   beat  thefe  in  a  Mor- 
tar, and  then  feafon  your  Meat  with  Pepper, 
Salt,  Cloves  and  Mace,  adding  to  it  an  Ounce 
of  Saltpeter:  mix  all  thefe  well,  and  let  the 
xVieat  lie  twenty-four  Hours,  then  put  it  in  an 
earthen  glazed  Pot,  and  bake  it  three  Hours> 
after  which,   take  it  out,   and  dry  it  from  the 
Gravey,  then  return  it  to  the  Pot  again,  and 
then  cover  it  with  clarified  Butter.     This  Re- 
ceipt  might  have  been  put  in  fomcof  the  for- 
mer Months,   as  the  Hare  is  then  in  feafon  5 
but  as  it  depends  upon  'the  foregoing  Receipt, 
I  thou2;ht  convenient  to  infert  it  in  this  Place: 
however,  a  Jack  Hare  may  now  be  drefs'd  in 
this  fafhion,^  but  the  Doe-Hares  are  now  ei- 
ther with  Young  or  have  Young  ones,  fo  that 
they  are  out  of  Seafon.     Thefe  Potted  Meats 
are  ufeful  in  Houfekeeping,  being  always  ready 
for  the   Table :    So    likewifc  the   following 
Receipt  for   Collared  Beef  is  of  the  fame  fer- 
vicc.  Ta 


Director,  6"^ 

To  Collar  Beef. 

r^  E  T    the  Rand  or   Flank    of  Beef   cut 
^^    about  a  foot    in  length  ^  bone  it,  and 
theci  mix  two  Ounces  of  Salt  peter,  with  a 
good  handful  of  common  Salt :  after  which, 
carbonade  the  outward  Skin  of  the  Beef,  and 
rub  the  whole  well  with-the  Salts,  lettins;  it 
lie  for  twenty- four  hours  in  §alt    before  you 
collar   iti  but  obferving  to  tilrn  it  twice    a 
day,  at  lead,    whilft  it  is  in  Salt.     When  it 
has  lain  thus  to  feafon,  get  fome  fweet-Mar- 
joram,  a  little   Winter- Savoury,    fome    B.cd 
Sage-leaves,,  and    a  little   Thyme,   and  fhred 
them  fmall ;  among  which  put  an  Ounce  of 
Pepper  ground  fmall,  half  an  Ounce  of  Cloves 
and   Mace  beat,  and  a  Handful  of  Salt ;  mix 
thefe  together,   and   ftrew  the  mixture  thick 
over  the  infide  of  your  Meat,  that  when  it  is 
roU'd  up,  it  may  be  equally  bound  in  with  the 
Turnings  of  the  Beef:  then  provide  fome  thin 
Slices  of  the  fame  Beef  to   lay  before  the  firft 
Turn,  that  the  Collar  may  not  be  hollow  in 
the   middle.     This  muft  be  roll'd  as  hard  as 
poffible,  fo  that  every  Part  is  equally  prefs'd 
to  each  other  5  then  get  fome  Tape  about  an 
Inch  wide,  and  bind   it  hard  about  your  Col- 
lar of  Beef,  in  a  Screw-like  manner,  till  you 
have  doled  your  Collar  trom  top  to  bottom 
as  tight  as  can  be  5  obfcrvin.g  to  bind  the  top 
and  bottom  in  an  extraordinary  manner  with 
ftrong  Packthread.  Put  this  in  a  glazed  earthen 
Pan,  with   as  much  Claret  as  will   cover  it, 

put- 


64  The  Country  Ladfs 

putting  over   the  whole   feme    coarfe  Paftc;, 
and  fend  it  to  the  Oven  to  ftand  five   or  fix 
Hours.     When  it  is  baked   enough,  take  out 
your  Collar,  and  {^x.  it  upright  till  it  be  cold, 
and  then  take  off  the  Fillets,  or  the  Tape  that 
braced  it  together,  and  keep  it  for  ufe.    This 
is  cut  in  thin  Slices,    and    eaten   with   Vine- 
irar,  as  are  moft  of  the  Collar'd-meats  and  Pot^ 
ted  meats.     This  Example  is  enough  for  any 
one  either  to  Collar  other  Meats  by,  only  ob- 
fcrving  that   fuch   Flefh   as  is  tender,  as  Pig 
and  a  Brcaft  of  Veal,  mull  not  be  falted  be- 
fore they  are  collar'd,  and  the  Spice  or  Herbs 
to  be  roU'dup  with  them,  may  be  at  difcretion  5 
but  for  the  boiling  or  baking,  the  Time  muft 
be  in  proportion  to  their  Size,  or  natural  Ten- 
dernefs.     It  muft    neverthelefs  be    obfefved, 
that  they  muft  be  baked  or  boiled  till  all  the 
Gravey  is  out  of  them  i  for  the  Gravey  being  in 
them,  will  contribute  to  their  fpoiling  by  grow^ 
ing  mufty,  or  otherways  foetid. 

We  have  now  Flounders  in  good  Perfedion, 
and  befides  the  common  Way  of  Dreffing 
them,  either  by  boiling  them,  as  mentioned 
in  the  former  Months,  they  are  alfo  fometimes 
fried;  and  fometimes  broird  j  but  the  follow- 
in!!  is  after  fuch  a  manner,  as  is  extremely 
agreeable,  and  will  preferve  them  good  a  long 
time.  Thefe,  or  other  Fiih  fry'd,  arc  kept 
after  the  fame  manner :  the  Receipt  I  had  from 
a  worthy  Gentleman,  where  I  eat  fome  in  great 
Perfection. 


Dl  RE  CT  O  R.  65 

Tickled  Fijh.  From  Aaron  Harrington,  Efq^ 

LE  T  the  Fifh  be  fry'd  after  the  common 
manner,  and  when  they  are  cold  lay  them 
in  a  Difh,  and  pour  on  the  following  Pickle  : 
Water  and  Vinegar  equal  quantities,  Jamaica 
Pepper,  Pepper  and  Salt,  a  little  Mace,  a  few 
Bay-leaves,  and  fome  White-wine  :  when  thefe 
have  boiled  together,  pour  the  Pickle  on  the 
Fiili  while  it  is  not  too  hot ;  thefe  eat  extreme- 
ly well. 

Trouts  are  now  in  good  perfedion  in  the 
South  parts  of  our  Country  j  that  is>  where  the 
Weather  has  been  favourable  in  the  former 
Month  i  and  then  bcfides  the  common  way  of 
boiling  them  we  may  have  them  potted,  which 
will  make  them  as  valuable  as  potted  Charrsj, 
which  are  a  fort  of  Trout, 

To  pott  Trouts.  From  Mrs.  R.  S.  ^/ Prefton 
in  Lancafhire. 

CCale  and  clean  your  Trouts  very  well,  wafh 
^  them  in  Vinegar,  and  flit  them  down  the 
Back,  after  which  put  Pepper  and  Salt  into  the 
Incifion,  and  on  their  Outfides,  and  let  them 
lie  upon  a  Difh  three  Hours ;  then  lay  them  in 
an  earthen  glaz'd  Pan,  with  pieces  of  Butter 
upon  them,  and  put  them  in  an  Oven  two 
Hours,  if  they  are  Trouts  fourteen  Inches  long, 
or  lefs  in  proportion,  taking  care  to  tie  fomq 
Paper  clofe  over  the  Pan.  When  this  is  done, 
take  away  from  them  all  the  Liquor,  and  put 
them  in  a  Potp  and  as  foon  as  they  are  quite 

cold, 


66  The  Country  Ladfs 

cold,  pour  fome  clarified  Butter  upon  them  to 
cover  them :  Thefe  will  eat  as  well  as  potted 
Charrs.  Some  will  take  out  the  Bone  upon 
flitting  the  Back,  and  thefe  have  been  often  ta- 
ken  for  Charrs  5  tho'  I  don't  know  above  two 
Places  where  the  Charrs  are,  one  is  a  Pool 
where  z  River  or  Brook  runs  thro'  in  Lanca- 
fhire,  ahd  the  other  is  in  a  Pool  at  Naant, 
within  four  Miles  of  Caernarvan.  But  the 
Charr  is  of  the  Trout  kind,  and  it  muft  be  a 
cTood  ludge  in  Fifh  to  diftin^uifh  one  from  ano- 
ther  5  however,  there  is  fomc  fmall  difference, 
which  the  Criticks  in  fifhing  take  notice  of. 

Fifh  may  alio  be  kept  in  Pickle  feveral 
Weeks,  as  the  Jack  and  Trout  efpecially  are 
agreeable  Varieties. 

This  time  is  a  proper  Seafon  for  making  a 
pleafant  and  flrong  Wine  o^  Malaga  Kci'iiins, 
which  will  keep  good  many  Years,  and  among 
the  bcft  Judges  of  Wine  is  much  admired  5  it 
is  not  unlike  a  flrong  Mountain  Wine  :  at  this 
time  alfo  the  Raifins  are  very  cheap. 

To  make  Raijin  Wine, 

TAke  half  a  hundred  weight  of  Malaga 
Raifins,  pick  them  clean  from  the  Stalks, 
and  chop  the  Raifins  fmall,  then  put  them  into 
a  large  Tub,  and  boil  ten  Gallons  of  River  Wa- 
ter, or  fuch  Water  as  is  foft,  and  pour  it  hot 
upon  them  ,  let  this  be  ftirr'd  twice  or  thrice 
every  Day  for  twelve  Days  fuccefTively,  and 
then  pour  the  Liquor  into  a  Cask  and  make 
a  Toaft  of  Bread,  and  while  it  is  hot,  fpread 

it 


Director. 

it  on  both  fides  with  Ycaft  or  Barm,  and  put 
it  into  the  Veffel  to  the  Wine,  and  it  will  make 
it  ferment  gently,   which  you  may  Icnow  by 
its  making  a  hilling  Noife;  during  the  time  of 
working,  the  Bung  of  the  Vcflei  muft  be  left 
open,  and  as  foon  as  that  is  over,  flop  it  up  clofe. 
This  will  be  fine  and  fit  for  Drinking  in  about 
four  Months    time  5  but  if   you  make  twice 
the  quantity,  it  fhouid  ftand  five  or  fix  Months 
before  you  broach  it :  Obferve  that  you  fetit 
in  a  good  Cellar,  fuch  as  I  have  mentioned  in 
the  Month  of  March,  under  the  Article  of 
Brewing. 

To  make  Front eniac  Wine. 

np  H  E  foregoing  Receipt  muft  be  followed 
-■-     in  every  particular,  only  when  you  put 
it  into  the  Veffel,  add  to  it  fome  of  the  Sy- 
rup of  the  white  Fronteniac  Grape^  which  we 
may  make  in  England^  tho'  the  Seafon  is  not 
favourable  enough  to  ripen  that  fort  of  Grape  5 
for  in  a  bad  Year,  when  the  white  Fronteniac, 
or  the  Mufcadeila  Grapes  are  hard  and  unripe, 
and  without   Flavour,  yet  if  you  bake  them 
they  will  take  the  rich  Flavour,  which  a  good 
(hare  of  Sun  would   have  given  them.     You 
may  either  bake  the  Fronteniac  Grapes  with 
Sugar,  or  boil  them  to  make  a  Syrup  of  their 
Juice,  about  a  Quart  of  which  Syrup  will  be 
enough  to  put  to  five  Quarts  of  the  Raifia 
Wine.  When  thefe  have  work'd  together,  and 
flood  a  time,  as  direded  in  the  foregoing  Re- 
ceipt, you  will  have  a  Fronteniac  Wine  of  as 

rich 


<5S  27?^  Country  Lady's 

rich  a  Flavour  as  tiie  French  forr,  bcfidcs  the 
Pieaiure  of  knowing  that  all  the  Ingredients 
arc  wliolefomc. 

This  Month  is  the  principal  time  for  Af- 
paragiis,  which  every  one  knows  how  to  pre- 
pare in  the  common  way  ;  but  there  are  fome 
particulars  relating  to  the  fitting  them  for  the 
Table,  which  I  had  from  a  curious  Gentleman 
at  Antverpy  which  I  fhail  here  fee  down. 

To  preferve  Afparagus. 
/^  U  T  aw^y  all  the  hard  part  of  your  Afpa- 
^^  ragus,  and  juft  boil  them  up  with  Butter 
and  Salt,  then  fling  them  into  cold  Water,  and 
prefcntly  take  them  out  again  and  let  them 
drain  ;  when  they  are  cold;,  put  them  iti  a  Galli- 
pot, large  enough  for  them  to  lie  without  bend- 
ing,  putting  to  them  fome  whole  Cloves,  fome 
S^Xx,^  and  as  much  Vinegar  and  Water,  in  equal 
quantities,  as  will  cover  them  half  an  Inch-: 
then  take  a  fingle  Linnen  Cloth,  and  let  it  in- 
to the  Pot  upon  the  Water,  and  pour  melted 
Butter  over  it,  and  keep  them  in  a  temperate 
Place:  When  you  ufe  them,  lay  them  to  fteep 
in  warm  Water^  and  drefs  them  as  you  would 
do  frefli  Afparagus.  It  is  to  be  noted,  that  in 
Holland,  and  moft  places  abroad,  the  Afpara^ 
gusis  always  white,  which  is  done  according 
to  a  method  that  I  have  inferted  in  my  o- 
thcr  Works ;  the  method  of  bringing  them  to 
Table  the  foreign  way,  is  to  ferve  them  with 
melted  Butter,  Salt,  Vinegar,  and  Nutmeg 
grated. 
^  The 


DiRECTORr  6p 

The  Tops  or  Heads  of  Afparagus  being  bro- 
ken in  fmall  pieces  and  boil'd,  are  ufed  in  Soups 
like  green  Peafe. 

Afparagus  in  Cream,    From  the  fame, 

Reak  the  Tops  of  your  Afparagus  in  fmall 
Pieces,  then  blanch  them  a  Y\ii\z  in  boiling 
Water,  or  parboil  them,  after  which  put  them 
in  a  Stew-Pan  or  Frying-Pan  with  Butter  or 
HogVLard,  and  let  them  remain  a  little  while 
over  a  brisk  Fire,  taking  care  that  they  arc  not 
too  greafy,  but  well  drain'd  5  then  put  them  in 
a  clean  Stew-Pan  with  fotiie  Milk  and  Cream, 
a  gentle  Seafoning  of  Salt  and  Spice,  with  a 
fmall  Biineh  of  fweet  Herbs  i  and  juft  when 
they  are  enough^  add  to  them  the  Yolks  of  two 
or  three  Eggs  beaten,  with  a  little  Creani  to 
bind  your  Sauec. 

The  Greens,  which  are  now  fit  for  boiling, 
are  Sprouts  of  Cabbages,  and  young  Cabbage- 
Plants,  v/hich  every  one  knows  how  to  pre- 
pare. There  is  alfo  Spinage,  which  is  beft 
itew'd  without  any  Water,  irs  own  Juice  be- 
ing fufficients  and  we  have  dill  plenty  of 
Lupines,  that  is,  the  fiowring  Stalks  of  Tur» 
nips,  which  eat  very  agreeably  5  they  fhould  be 
gathered  about  the  length  of  Afparagus,  when 
the  Tops  are  'knotted  for  flowering,  and  the 
firings  in  the  outfide  of  the  Stalks  ftripp'd  from 
them  5  then  tie  them  in  Bunches,  as  yoU 
do  Afparagus,  and  put  them  in  boiling  Wa- 
fer with  fome  Salt,  and  let  them  boil  three 
or  four  MinuteS;  then  lay  them  to  drain,  with- 

F  ouE 


70  The  Country  Ladfs 

outprclllng,  and  ferve  them  to  Table  as  you 
would  do  Afparagus.  The  fame  way  is  ufcd 
in  the  management  of  Brocoli. 

The  middle  of  this  Month  the  Cowflip  is  in 
Flower,  or  as  fome  call  it  the  Peiglej  and  now 
is  the  Seafon  to  make  a-«noft  pleafant  Wine  of 
the  Flowers.  This  Receipt  is  the  befl:  I  have 
niet  with. 

To  make  Teigle,    or  Cowjlip  Wine,     From 

Mrs,  E.  B. 

np  O  three  Gallons  of  Wine,  put  fix  Pounds 
-^  of  fine  Sugar,  boil  thefe  together  half  an 
hour,  and  as  the  Scum  rifes,  take  it  off;  then 
fet  the  Liquor  to  cool,  and  when  it  is  quite 
cold,  take  a  Spoonful  of  the  bed  Ale-Yeaft, 
and  beat  it  well  with  three  Ounces  of  Syrup  of 
Citron,  or  Syrup  of  Lemon;  mix  thefe  very 
well  together  with  the  Liquor  j  and  then  put 
into  it  a  Pound  and  three  quarters  of  the 
yellow  part  of  the  Cowflip,  or  Peigle  Flowers, 
which  muft  be  cut  from  the  Stalks  a  little  before- 
hand, but  no  other  part  muft  be  ufed :  let 
thefe  infufc  and  work  three  days  in  an  Earthen 
Vellel,  cover'd  with  a  Cloth  $  then  ftrain  them, 
and  put  your  Liquor  into  a  clean  dry  Cask, 
and  let  it  ftand  to  fettle  three  Weeks  or  a 
Month  before  you  bottle  it. 


MAT. 


i 


Director. 


71 


MAT. 


S  this  is  the  bufy  Month  in  the  Dair}% 
I  (hall  here  infert  the  Remarks  I  have 
by  me  concerning  the  making  of 
Checfes  5  and  in  this  Work  it  is  firft 
neccffary  to  know  how  to  manage  the  Rennet. 
The  Rennet  is  made  of  the  Calves  Bag, 
which  is  taken  as  foon  as  the  Calf  is  kill'd, 
and  fcour'd  infide  and  outfide  with  Salt,  after 
having  firft  difcharg'd  it  of  the  Curd,  which 
is  always  found  in  it ;  this  Curd  muft  like  wife 
be  well  wafh*d  in  a  Cullender  with  ¥/ater,  and 
the  Hairs  picked  out  of  it  till  it  becomes  very 
white,  then  return  the  Curd  asjain  into  the 
Bag,  and  add  to  it  two  good  Handfulsof  Salt, 
and  fhut  the  Mouth  of  the  Bag  clofe  with  a 
Skewer,  then  lay  the  Bag  in  an  Earthen-Pan, 
and  cover  it  clofe,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  place  ^ 
this  will  remain  fit  for  ufe  twelve  Months. 
When  you  would  ufe  it,  boil  a  Quart  of  Wa- 
ter, after  you  have  faked  it,  fo  as  to  bear  aa 
Egg,  and  letting  it  ftand  to  be  quite  cold,  pour 
it  into  the  Bag,  and  prick  the  Bag  full  of  very 
fniall  Holes,  and  lay  it  in  a  clean  Pan  for 
ufe.  While  this  Rennet  is  frefh,  a  Spoonful 
of  the  Liquor  will  turn  or  fet  about  fixteen 

E  2  or 


7i  The  Country  Lady s 

or  twenty  Gallons  of  Milk  5  but  as  it  is  longer 
kept,  it  grows  weaker,  and  muft  be  ufed  in 
greater  quantity  :  this  Rennet  will  laft  good 
about  a  Month.  This  is  the  Ejfex  and  Hert- 
ford jhire  way. 

Another  way  of  preparing  of  Rennet  Bags, 
is  to  take  the  Calves  Bag,  and  wafh  and  fcour 
it  with  Salt,  and  the  Curd  iikewife,  as  direded 
above  3  and  then  faking  it  very  well,  hang 
it  up  in  the  Corner  of  a  Kitchen  Cbrmney> 
and  dry  it  5  and  as  foon  as  you  want  to  ufe  it, 
boil  Water  and  Salt,  as  before,  and  fill  the 
Bag  with  it,  making  fmall  Holes  in  the  Bag, 
as  before  direded,  and  keeping  it  in  a  clean 
Pan. 

It  is  to  be  noted,  that  the  Bag  of  the  Calf, 
which  is  the  part  that  receives  the  Milk,  is  fo 
difpofed,  as  to  change  the  Milk  into  Curd,  as 
foon  as  it  is. received  into  it  5  and  the  Curd, 
which  is  found  in  it,  partaking  of  that  quality 
of  the  Bag,  which  difpofes  it  to  harden  the 
'Milk  5  thcfe  are  therefore  to  be  preferv'd  for 
the  fame  ufe,  when  wc  employ  common  Milk 
to  be  made  into  Curd  :  but  as  the  Calves  Bag 
is  warm,  when  it  naturally  receives  the  Milk 
from  the  Cow,  and  it  then  curdles  in  it ;  fo, 
when  wc  want  to  fet  or  turn  Milk,  for  Cheefe 
or  other  ufe,  we  muft  have  the  Milk  warm  as 
one  may  guefs  the  Body  of  the  Calf  was,  and 
the  Milk  was  likewifc,  when  the  Calf  received 
it  from  the  Cow.  There  is  great  danger  if  the 
Milk  be  too  hot  when  the  Rennet  is  put  to  it, 
for  then  it  fcts  or  turns  to  Curd  very  quicks 

and 


Director.  73 

and  the  Cheefcwill  be  hard  5  but  it  is  good  to 
Jet  the  Milk  be  of  fuch  a  warmth  as'  not  to 
come  too  foon,  as  it  is  called  in  the  Dairies, 
but  to  have  it  of  iuch  a  warmth,  as  to  let  the 
Curd  fet  eafily,  and  come  moderately,  for  the 
quicker  the  Curd  comes,  the  hsrdcr  it  is,  and 
the  harder  the  Curd  is,  the  harder  is  the  Cheefe. 
Again,  wc  muft  have  fome  regard  to  the  Fa- 
ilure where  our  Cows  feed  ;  thofe  that  feed  in 
rank  Grafs  have  more  watery    parts  in  their 
Milk  than  thofe  Cows  which  feed  on  fhort, 
Grafs :  and  fomctimes,  as  I  have  obferved  be- 
fore, in  my  other  Works,  the  Cows  feed  upon 
Crow  Garlick,  or  the  Ailiaria,  or  Sauce  alone, 
or  Jack  in   the  Hedge,    or  Goofe-i;rafs,    or 
Clivers,   or  Rennet  Wort,  and    their   Milk 
will  either  be  ill  tafted,  or  clfe  turn  or  curd 
of  itfclf,  altho'  the  Cow  has  had  a  due  .time 
after  Calving  j  and  if  the  Goofe-grafs  or  Clivers 
happen  to  be  the  occaRon  of  the  turning  of  the 
Milk,  then  a  lefs  quantity  of  Rennet  fhpuld 
be  ufed  :  for  the  only  ufe  of  Rennet  is  tofix 
the  Milk,  and  turn  it  to  Curd,  and  if  already 
there  is  near  an  equivalent  for  Rennet  in  thq 
Milk,  by  the  Cow's  eating  fuch  Herbs,  then  a 
little  of  it  will  do.     But  as   I  have  obferv'd 
above,where  Cattle  feed  upon  long  rank  Grafs, 
the  Milk  is  watery,  and  docs  not  contain  two 
thirds  of  the  Cream,  or  Richnefs  that  there  is 
in  the  fame  quantity  of  Milk  from  Cows  fed 
upon  fhort  fine  Grafs :    So  that  if  one  was  to 
make  Cheefe,  one  would  chufe  the  Milk  of 
pows  that  fed  upon    the    purcft   fine  Grafs, 

F  3  Here 


74  The  Country  Ladfs 

Here  the  Milk  would  be  rich,  and  if  the  Ren- 
net is  good  and  well  proportioned,  the  Cheefe 
will  be  lb  too.  It  is  to  be  obferv'd  likewife, 
that  when  Cows  feed  upon  fuch  Weeds  as  I 
have  mentioned,  I  mean  the  Clivers,  which 
turn  their  Milk,  the  Curd  is  always  hard  and 
fcatter'd,  and  never  comes  into  a  Body,  as 
the  pure  Milk  will  do  that  is  fet  with  Rennet, 
and  confequently  the  Cheefe  will  be  hard. 
There  is  one  thing  likewife  to  be  taken  no- 
tice of,  with  regard  to  the  Rennet,  that  as  the 
Bag,  of  which  it  is  made,  happens  to  be  good, 
fo  is  the  Rennet  good  in  proportion.  I  mean 
the  Bag  is  good  when  the  Milk  of  the  Cow, 
that  fuckled  the  Calf,  is  good  5  for  the  good- 
nefs  of  the  Feed  of  the  Cow  does  not  only 
difpofe  the  Body  of  the  Calf  to  produce  a  gen- 
tlenefs  or  foftnefs  in  the  Acid,  which  pro- 
motes  the  curdling  of  the  Milk,  when  it  is 
received  into  the  Body  of  the  Calf,  bur  makes 
the  Rennet  more  tender  to  the  fetting  of  the 
Cheefe-Curd,  and  fo  the  Cheefe  will  confe- 
quently be  the  better  for  it  :  And  I  judge  that 
one  reafon  why  the  Suffolk  Cheefe  is  fo  much 
noted  for  its  hardnefs,  is  on  account  of  the 
badnefs  of  the  Rennet,  tho'  it  is  certain,  that 
the  worft  Cheefes  of  that  Country  are  made 
of  Skim-Milk  5  however,  the  nature  of  the 
Milk  is  fuch,  according  to  my  Obfervation, 
that  it  makes  very  rich  Butter,  but  the  Cream 
rifes  on  it  fo  quickly,  and  fo  fubftantially, 
that  it  leaves  no  fatnefs  or  richnefs  in  the  o- 
ther  parr,  which  we  call  the  Skim-Milk,  but 

that 


Director.  75 

that  remains  little  better  than  Water :  fo  that 

'tis  no   wonder    in    this    cafe,  and  thro'   the 

rank  Feed  of  the  Cows,  that  the  Checfes  of 

thofe  parts  are  tot  good.     I  think   however 

the  Cheefe  of  Suffolk  might  be  help'd  in  a  good 

meafure,  if  the  Farmers  there  were  to  have 

their    Rennet  Bags   from    places   where  the 

Grafs  was  fhort  and  finej    for  I  guefs  then, 

from  the    above   reafoning,    that    the    Curd 

w^ould  be  of  a  more  tender  nature,  or  not  of 

fo  binding  a   quality  as  it    now  is,    and  the 

Cheefe  confcquently  would    be    the   better. 

But  befides  thegoodnefs  of  the  Milk  and  the 

Rennet,  4f  a  Cheefe  is  over  prefs'd,  it  will  be 

hard  and  unpleafant  3  but  it  is  to  be  remarked, 

that  all  Cheefes  that  arc  hard  prefs'd  will  keep 

longer  than  thofe  that  are  gently  prefs'd,  and 

bear  tranfporting  thro'  the  hotteft    CHmates, 

which  themore  tender- made  Cheefes  will  not 

without  corrupting,  unlefs  they  are  put  into 

Oil.     There  is  one  thing  which  I  may  obferve 

particularly,  relating  to  the  Rennet  Bag ;  which 

is,  that  the  Calf  fliould  fuck  it  full  about  aa 

hour  before  it  is  kill'd,  that  there  may  be  more 

and   frefher  Curd  in  it$  tho'  in    the   killing 

of  Calves  it  is  a  Rule  to  let  the  Calf  faft  feme 

time  before  killins:,    which  we  are  told  con- 

tributes  to  the  Whitencfs  of  the  Flcfh.    Again, 

it    wouW    be   an   advantage   in  the    making 

of  Cheefe    to   have  your  Cattle  all    of  one 

fort,  and  to  feed  all  upon  the  fame  fort  of 

Pafture^  for  when  it  happens  to  be  otherwife, 

the  Cheefes  are  apt  to  decay,  from  the  diffe- 

F  4  rent 


76  Tke  Country  hadys 

rent  Tempers  of  the  Milkj  but  let  our  Milk 
be  what  ir  will,  be  c  a  refill  of  the  former  Me* 
thod  prcfcribcd^  /.  e.  to  break  the  Curd  by 
gentle  degrees,  and  as  equally^as  poffible  every 
where  :  the  little  pains  extraordinary  will  be 
paid  in  the  goodnefs  of  the  Cheefe,  for  then 
it  will  not  be  full  of  Eyes  or  Hollows,  and  will 
fell  the  better. 

But  befidcs  the  way  of  preparing  the  Ren- 
net, asl  have  here  fee  down,  it  is  praftifed  to 
make  an  artificial  Rennet,  which  will  do  very 
well  for  making  of  Chcele  5  and  that  is,  to 
boil  the  Clivcr,  or  as  fome  call  it  Goofe-grafs, 
or  others  Rennet- Wort,  in  Water,  and  you  may 
add  fomc  Tops  of  Sweet  Bryarj  about  a  Spoon- 
ful of  Y/hich  Decodion,  or  boiled  Liquor,wiil 
turn  a  Pail-full  of  Milk,  of  about  five  Gallons, 
without  any  other  help  ;  but  in  the  Prepara- 
tion of  this,  as  well  as  the  other,  for  the 
Improvement  of  the  Chccfcs,  in  giving  them 
rich  Flavours,  it  is  advilcable  to  infert,  while 
we  are  boiling  the  Waters  for  them,  either 
fomc  of  fuch  Sweet  Herbs  as  we  like,  or  fuch 
Spices  as  we  mod  covet  x\\z  tafte  of  As  for 
the  famous  Stilton  Checfc,  which  I  have  already 
publiilied  the  Receipt  of,  we  are  to  make  the 
Rennet  llrong  of  Mace,  by  boiling  the  Mace 
in  the  Salt  and  Water,  for  without  that  is 
done,  the  Checfe  will  not  have  the  true  Relifh 
that  the  fird  famous  Stilton  Cheefcs  had  ; 
and  without  the  People  o^ Stilton  keep  up  the 
antient  way  of  making  ir,  agreeable  to  the 
old  Receipt,  they  muft  of  necelTuy  lofe  the 

Rcpu- 


Director.  77 

Reputation  they  have  gain'd  by  their  Checfcs. 
I  (hall  not  pretend  to  affirm  why  the  Cheefes 
now  in  that  Town  are  not  generally  fo  good 
as  they  were  formerly  j  but  perhaps  it  is  be- 
caufe  fome  of  the  Cheefe-Sellers  there  depend 
upon  the  reputation  of  the  firft  Cheefes,  and 
now  buy  Cheefes  from  other  parts,  where  no- 
thing of  the  true  Receipt  is  known  but  the 
Figure.  However,  it  would  be  injuftice  in  me 
if  I  did  not  take  notice,  that  the  Mafter  of  the 
Blue-Belllnn  in  Stilton  provided  me  with  one 
that  was  excellent  in  its  way,  and  yearly  fur- 
nifhes  as  many  Cuftomers  with  them  as  give 
him  timely  Notice :  But  as  thefe  Cheefes  re- 
quire time  in  the  Dairy,  before  they  are  fit  for 
eating,  and  the  Seafon  of  making  them  is  in  the 
Bloom  of  the  Year,  fo  it  is  ncceffary  to  fpeak 
for  them  betimes,  to  have  them  to  one's  mind. 
I  fhail  not  give  the  Receipt  of  it  at  this  time, 
as  it  has  already  fallen  into  a  good  number  of 
hands  with  my  former  Pieces,  and  has  been 
thought  good  enough  to  have  been  copied 
from  me,  with  many  other  Articles,  and  pub- 
lifhed  by  Mr.  Lavjrence,  I  fhall  proceed  there- 
fore to  give  the  Receipts  for  making  of  fome 
other  kinds  of  Cheefes,  which  yet  have  not  ap- 
peared in  the  World,  which  I  have  collcdcd 
from  fome  of  the  beft  Dairies  in  England. 
The  following  is  the  famous  Buckingham 
Cheefe,  which  1  had  from  Mr.  Foord,  a  very 
curious  Gentleman  cf  that  place. 

Ta 


7^  The  Country  Lad/s 

To  make  Buckingham  Cheefe.     From 
Mr,  Foord  of  that  Tlace, 

■pRepare  a  Checfe  Vat  or  Chcefc  Mote  of 
■■■  a  iquare  Pigure,  fix  Inches  over,  and  nine 
Inches  deep,  full  of  fmall  Holes  for  the  conve- 
nience of  letting  out  the  Whey  when  the 
Curd  is  put  into  it :  Then  take  the  Night's 
Cream,  and  mix  it  with  the  Morning's  Milk, 
and  put  the  Rennet  to  it  to  cool.  When  the  Curd 
is  come,  take  it  gently  from  the  Whey,  and 
fill  the  Cheefe  Vat  with  it,  and  lay  a  Board  up- 
on the  Curd,  and  as  that  finks,  fill  up  th© 
Cheefe  Vat  with  frefh  Curds  j  this  fhould  be 
done  once  every  Hour  till  Night.  The  next 
Day  turn  your  Cheefe  upfide  down,  and  con- 
tinue turning  it  every  Night  and  Morning  till 
it  Ihrinksfrom  the  Vat  or  Cheefe  Mote,  and 
is  ftifF  enough  to  take  out  without  breaking, 
and  then  lay  it  upon  the  Shelf  to  be  turn  d, 
and  fliiftit  Night  and  Morning  till  'tis  dry  for 
ufe.  This  Mr.  Foord  tells  me  is  the  bed  fort 
of  Cheefe  he  has  met  with  in  England. 

The  following  I  have  experienced  to  be  an 
extraordinary  Cheefe  5  in  fome  places  'tis  call'd 
the  Golden  Cheefe,  and  in  others  the  Mary- 
oold  Cheefe,  which  it  is  properly.  The  Juice 
of  the  Marygolds  adds  a  very  great  richnefsto 
the  Milk,  and  contributes  almofl:  as  much  to  it 
as  Cream  would  do.  The  following  is  the 
Receipt  to  make  it. 

To 


Director.  79 

To  make  Marygold  Cheefe, 

GAther  your  Marygold  Flowers  in  a  dry 
Day,  and  pick  the  golden- coloured  Leaves 
from  them,  ( thefe  we  call  the  Petals  of  the 
Flowers :)  As  foon  as  you  have  picked  a  fufficient 
quantity  of  thefe  Leaves  for  your  ufe,  bruife 
them  in  a  Mortar,  or  grind  them,  if  you  have 
Conveniency,  and  ftrain  out  the  Juice  s  this 
Juice,  when  you  put  the  Rennet  to  the  Milk, 
muft  be  put  into  the  Milk,  and  flirr'd  into  it. 
The  Milk  muft  then  be  kt,  and  as  foon  as  the 
Curd  is  come,  break  it  ger\tly,  and  as  equally  as 
pollible,  and  put  it  into  the  Cheefe  Vat,  and 
prefs  it  with  a  gentle  Weight,  letting  the  bot- 
tom part  of  the  Vat  have  fuch  a  number  of 
Holes  in  it,  as  will  let  out  the  Whey  eafily,  or 
clfc  a  Spout  to  carry  off  the  Whey  5  but  the 
Holes  are  much  better  than  the  Spout.  This 
Cheefe,  which  is  made  in  a  Cloth,  muft  be 
ufed  like  other  Cheefes  made  after  that  manner. 
As  for  the  making  of  Sage-Cheefe,  the  fol- 
lowing is  tjhe  beft  way  that  I  have  met  with, 
and  therefoi^e  I  think  the  Receipt  may  be  ufe- 
fui  to  the  Publick. 

To  make  a  plain  Sage-Cheefe. 
/^Athcr  the  young  Tops  of  red  Sage,  and 
^^  bruife  them  in  a  Mortar  till  you  can  prefs 
the  Juice  from  them  5  then  take  Leaves  of  Spi- 
nach or  Spinage,  and  bruife  them  like  wife,  and 
prefs  out  the  Juice  to  mix  with  the  Sage  Juice  5 
for  the  Sage  Juice  of  it  felf  is  not  of  apleafant 

erecn 


So  The  Country  Ladfs 

green  Colour,  and  the  Spinach  Juice  is  added 

to  it  to  render  it  more  bright  to  the  Sight  5  it 

alfo  ferves  to  take  ofFthe  bitternefs  of  the  Sage. 

When  this  Juice  is  prepared,  put  your  Rennet 

to  the  Milk,  and,  at  the  fame  time,  mix  as  much 

of  your  Sage  and  Spinach  Juice  with  it,  as  will 

give  the  Milk  the  green  Colour  you  defire.  If 

you  would  have  it  ftrong  of  the  Sage,  yoa  muft 

have  the  greater  fliare  of  Sage  Juice  i  or  weaker 

of  the  Sage,  the  greater  fhare  of  Spinach  Juice. 

When  the  Curd  is  come,  b,reak  the  Curd  gently, 

and  when  it  is  all  equally  broken,  put  it  into 

the  Vat  or  Cheefe  Mote,  and  prcfs  it  gently  : 

remember  that  the  equal  and  due  breaking  of 

the  Curd  will  keep  your  Cheefe  from  having 

Hollows  or  Eyes  in  ie,  and  the  gentle  prefllng 

of  Cheefe  will  make  it  eat  tender'and  mellow. 

This,  as  well  as  the  Marygold  Ctieefe,  muft  be 

falted,  when  it  has   been  prefs'd  about  eight 

Hours. 

To  make  Sage -Cheefe  in  Figures, 

THofe  that  are  willing  to  have  figured  Chee- 
fcs,  fuch  Cheefes  as  are  partly  green  and 
partly  otherwife,  muft  take  the  following  me- 
thod. Provide  two  Cheefe  Vats  of  the  fame 
bignefs,  and  fet  your  Milk  in  two  different 
VefTcls  i  one  part  with  plain  Rennet  only,  and 
the  other  wit1i  Rennet  and  Sage  Juice,  as  di- 
reded  in  the  above  Receipt  5  niake  thefc  as  you 
would  do  twodiftind  Cheefes,  and  put  them 
into  thePreffes  at  the  fame  time.  When  each 
of  thefe  Cheefes  has  been  preft  half  an  hour, 

X  take 


Pi  RECTOR.  Si 

take  them  out  and  cut  feme  fquare  Pieces,  or 
long  Slips,  quite  out  of  the  plain  Cheefc,  and 
lay  them  by  upon  a  Plate  5  then  cut  as  many 
Pieces  out  of  the  Sage  Cheefe,  of  the  fame  Size 
and  Figure  of  thofe  that  were  cut  out  of  the 
plain  Cheefe,  and  prefently  put  the  pieces  of 
the  Sage  Cheefe  into  the  holes  that  were  cut 
in  the  plain  Cheefe,  and  the  pieces  cutout  of 
the  plain  Cheefe  into  the  holes  of  the  Sage 
Cheefe^  contriving  to  make  them  fit  exadly  ; 
for  this  ufe  fome  nave  Tin  Plate,  made  into 
Figures  of  fevcral  Shapes,  with  which  they 
cut  out  the  pieces  of  their  Cheefes  fo  exadly, 
that  they  fit  without  trouble.  When  this  is 
done,  return  them  to  the  PrefTcs,  and  treat  them 
like  common  Cheefes,  fo  will  you  have  one 
Cheefe  Sage,  with  white  or  plain  Figures  in  it, 
and  the  other  a  v^hite  Cheefe,  with  irreea 
Figures  in  it.  In  the  making  of  thefe  Chee- 
fes you  muft  particularly  obferve  to  break  your 
Curd  very  equally,  andprefs  both  your  Chee- 
fes as  equally  as  pofilble  before  you  cut  out 
the  Figures;  for  elfe  when  they  come  to  be 
prefsy  for  the  laft  time,  your  Figures  will  prefs 
unequally  and  lofe  their  Shapes.  When  thefc 
Cheefes  are  made,  they  muft  be  frequently 
turn'd  and  fhifted  on  the  Shelf,  and  often 
lubb'd  with  a  coarfe  Cloath.  Thefe  Cheefes 
may  be  made  about  two  Inches  thick,  for  if 
they  are  thicker,  it  will  be  more  difficult  to 
make  the  Figures  regular ;  thefe  will  be  fit  to 
cat  in  about  eight  Months. 


Tc 


Q 


^2  The  Country  Laifs 

To  make  Cheefe  in  imitation  of  Cheftiirc 

Cheefe. 

WHen  your  Milk  is  fet,  and  the  Curd  is 
come,  it  muft  not  be  broken  with  a  Difh, 
as  is  ufual  in  the  making  of  other  Cheefes, 
but  drawn  together  by  the  Hands  to  one  fide 
oftheVcUei,  gently  and  regularly  broken  5  for 
if  it  is  roughly  prelVd,  a  great  dealoftherich- 
nefs  of  the  Milk  will  go  into  the  Whey.  As 
you  thus  gather  your  Curd,  put  it  into  the  Vat 
or  Cheefe  Mote  till  it  is  full,  then  prefs  it  and 
turn  it  often,  falting  it  at  feveral  times.  It  i$ 
to  be  noted,  that  the  Cheefes  fhould  be  fix  or 
eight  Inches  thick,  and  will  be  fit  to  cat  in  a 
Years  they  muft  be  frequently  turn'd  and  fhif- 
ted  upon  the  Shelf,  and  rubb'd  often  with  a 
dry  coarfe  Cloath,  and  at  the  Year's  end  may 
have  a  hole  bored  in  the  middle,  fo  as  to  con- 
tain a  quarter  Pint  of  Sack,which  muft  be  pour'd 
into  it,  and  then  the  hole  ftopp'd  dofe  with 
fome  of  the  fame  Cheefe,  and  the  Cheefe  fet 
in  a  Wine  Cellar  for  fix  Months  to  mellow  5  at 
the  end  of  which  time,  the  Sack  will  be  all 
loft,  and  the  hole  will  be  in  a  manner  clos'd 
up. 

To  make  Cheefe  in  imitation  of  thofe  made 
in  Gloucefterfhire. 

TpHefe  Cheefes  are  to  be  about  two  Inches 

-*-    thick,  and  the  Vats  or    Cheefe  Motes 

muft  be  provided  accordingly  5  fet  your  Milk 

as  directed  in  the  former  Receipts,  and  break- 

3  ing 


Director.  83 

ing  It  as  equally  and  tenderly  as  polTible,  put 
it  in  a  Cloth  into  the  Vat,  and  fet  it  in  the 
Prefs  for  an  Hour  i   then   take  it   out  of  the 
Prefs,  and  cut  it  in  (mall  Pieces,  as  big  as  Nut- 
megs, into  a  Pan   of   fcalding  Water,  taking 
them   again    foon   out    of  the  Water,    and 
fprinkie  them  with  Salt  at  your  pleafare,  and 
return  them  again  to  the  Vat  or  Cheefe  Mot^ 
and  keep  them  in  the  Prefs  till  the  next  Mor-  ^ 
ning,  and  after  that  turn  them  and  wipe  them 
often,  till  they  come  to  be  very  dry  5  or  eife 
when  you  have  let  one  of  thefe  Cheefes  prefs 
about  two  Hours,    fait  it  on  the  upper  fide, 
and  turn  it  at  Night,  and  fait  the  fide  that  lies 
uppermoft,  to  lie  in  the  Prefs  till  Morning  j 
butthefirft  way  of  cutting  and  faking  it  is  much 
the  beft.  Thefe  Cheefes  will  be  fit  to  cut  when 
they  have  been  made  eight  Months  5  it  is  to 
be  obferv'd,  that  if  we  fait  them  in  the  man- 
ner fi^rft    mentiond,    that  is,   by   cutting  the 
Cheefe,  fuch  Cheefes  will  be  fmooth-coated. 

To  make  Slip -Co  at  Cheefe^  which  is  the  thin 
Summer  Cheefe^  call'd  in  London  Cream 
Cheefe.  From  the  Farm  call'd  the  Vaifes 
in  Effex. 

T^Ake  fix  Quarts  of  new  Milk,  and  a  Pint 
-*-  of  Cream,  put  it  together  with  a  Spoon- 
ful of  Rennet  juft  warm,  and  let  it  ftand  till 
the  Curd  is  come ;  then  lay  a  Gloath  in  your 
Cheefe  Vat,  and  with  a  Skimming  Difli  cut 
out  the  Curd,  and  lay  it  in  the  Vat  till  it  is  full, 
turning  your  Cheefe-Cloath  over   itj  and  as 

the 


B^  The  Country  Ladfs 

the  Curd  fettles,  lay  more  on,  till  you  hav6 
laid  on  all.  When  the  Whey  is  drained  outj 
turn  the  Cheefe  into  a  dry  Cloath,  and  then 
lay  a  weight  of  a  Pound  upon  it  j  at  Night  turn 
it  into  another  dry  Cloath,  and  the  next  Morn- 
ing fait  it  a  little,  then  make  a  Bed  of  Nettles  or 
Afh-Leaves  to  lay  it  on,  and  cover  it  with  the 
fame,  Ihifting  them  twice  a  day,  till  the  Cheefe 
is  fit  to  eat,  which  will  be  in  about  ten  days. 
This  Cheefe  is  approved  to  be  the  beft  of  the 
kind  in  the  whole  Country,  and  may  be  made 
all  the  Summer. 

It  is  to  be  obferv'd,  that  if  in  any  fort  of 
Cheefe,  which  is  here  mentioned,  there  is  not 
a  flrength  or  brisknefs  of  tafte  agreeable  to  eve- 
ry Palate,  it  may  be  ftrengthned,  by  putting 
either  Spice  into  the  Rennet  Bag,  as  Pepper, 
or  Mace,  or  Cloves,  which  will  make  the 
Pvennet  very  ftrong,  and  the  Cheefe  of  confe- 
quence  morefharp  to  the  Palate ;  or  elfe  add  the 
Juices  of  ftrong  fweet  Herbs  to  the  Milk,  when 
the  Rennet  is  put  in  :  the  Juice  of  Marygolds 
efpecially  helps  the  richnefs  of  the  Milk,  or 
Cheefe.  The  Mace  in  good  quantity  put  into 
the  Rennet  will  give  the  Cheefe  a  moft  agree- 
able warmth. 

As  for  the  Antipathy  which  fbnie  People 
bear  to  Cheefe,  I  judge  that  it  muft  proceed 
from  the  firft  impreilion  made  from  the  Nurfe 
that  fuckles  Children,  or  from  the  firft  Cow's 
Milk  that  is  given  them  :  for  as  the  Stomach  is 
the  firft  pare  which  the  NouriChment  is  re- 
ceived into  i  foj  as  that  Nourifhment  is  at  firft 
i  '     '         favotb 


Director.  $5 

favourably  rcceiVd  iiito  the  Stomach,  fo  the 
Tone  of  thb  Stomach  will  ever  remaia  after- 
wards, unlefs  it  could  be  fo  cleared  from  the 
firft  Impreffion  by  fiich  a  Tryal  as  Human  Na- 
ture can  hardly  bear.  I  gucfs  too,  that  from 
this  Prejudice  in  the  Stomach  proceeds  the  A- 
vcrfion  which  fome  People  have  to  the  Smell 
of  Cheefe  j  and  if  I  may  go  a  little  farther  this 
Vay,  I  fuppofe  that  the  Diilike  to  Cats,  and 
the  Antipathy  fome  People  bear  to  them,  is 
from  Frights  which  the  Mothers  have  receiv'd 
from  them  durina  their  Preii^nancv :  concerii- 
ing  which  laft  Particular,  I  have  offered  my  Sen- 
timents in  the  Article  of  the  Longing  of  Wo- 
men ,  in  ray  Thilofophkal  Account  of  the 
Works  of  Nature,  But  as  for  the  other  things, 
which  (bme  People  bear  an  Averfion  to,  as 
the  Mutton  of  black  Sheep,  or  a  Breaft  of 
Mutton,  &c,  they  depend  upon  the  loathing 
of  the  Stomach,  frdm  the  firft  Impreffion. 
What  I  have  remarked  here,  concerning  the 
preparing  and  ,  foftning  of  the  quality  of  the 
Rennet  Bag,  is  in  part  a  reafon  for  the  firft  good 
or  bad  Impreffion  that  may  be  made  upon  Mali- 
kind  with  regard  to  Cheefci  and  I  think  the 
following  relation,  which  I  had  from  a  rldble 
Peer,  from  w^hom  I  have  learnt  many  curious 
and  ufeful  things,  tending  to  the  good  of  my 
Country,  will  be  acceptable  to  the  World. 

Some  Gentlemen  that  had  been  hunting , 
and  were  led  by  their  Sport  to  a  retir'd 
part  of  the  Country,  where  they  found  only 
a  Cottage  to  refrelh  themfelves  in,  were  forcd 

G  to 


S6  The  Country  Ladfs 

to  take  up  with  Bread  and  Cheefej  there  was 
nothing  elfe  to  be  had,  and  they  had  craving 
Stomachs :  but  one  of  the  Company  was    fo 
unfortunate  as  to  have  an  averfion  to  Cheefe, 
and  could  never  bear  either  the  tafte  or  Imell 
of  it  5  however,  at  this  time  feeinghow  heartily 
it  was  eaten  by  his  Companions,  and  being  very 
hungry,  he  refolved  to  venture  upon  it,  and 
eat  heartily  of  iti  but  about  an  hour  after  was 
taken  fo  very  ill  with  Purging  and  Vomiting, 
that  in  a  fhort  time  his  Life  was  defpair'd  of* 
He  had  the  Advice  of  the  beft  Phyficians,  but 
no  Medicine  took  place,  and  he  was  given  over, 
after  he  had  lain  in  that  condition  a  Week  j 
however,  at  length  the  Diftemper  went  off, 
and  by  degrees  he  got  ftrength  enough  to  go 
homeward,  and  in  his  way  happening  to  flop 
at  an  Inn,  where  there  flood  a  Waggon  Load 
of  Chefhire  Cheefes,  he  found  that  he  had  a 
ftrong  Appetite  to  cat  feme  of  that  fort,  and  had 
one  cut  on  purpofe,  and   eat   heartily  of  ir, 
without  fufFcring  the  leafl:  inconvenience,  and 
has  ever  fince  been  a  great  lover  of  Cheefe. 
So  that  there  is  an   Example  of  getting  over 
this  Averfion  5  but  confidering  the  difficulty  he 
went  thro',  it   fhews  the  danger  of  fuch  an 
Attempt  :  Nothing  Icfs  than  the  violent  Scou- 
ring he  underwent  could  have  changed  the  firft 
Impreffion  made  in  his  Stomach.     But  thus  far 
of  Cheefe. 

It  is  neceflary,  in   the    next  place,  to  fay 

fomething    of    Butter,    and    how   far    that 

may  be  mended  in  many  parts  of  England, 

'   '        .  as 


D  I  R  E  C  T  O  R.^  §7 

^s  well    for    private   as  for    more    general 

ufe. 

In  the  firft  place  it  is  to  be  remarked,  that 
fome  Grounds  will  never  produce  good  Butter, 
and  others   will   not  produce  good   Cheefe, 
tho' there  is  the  beft  management  in  the  Dairy. 
Again,  there  is  one  fort  of  Cattle,which  tho'  we 
feed  them  in  the  finefl:  Grafs,  and  beft  Failure, 
will  never  yield  a  rich  Milk  5  while  on  the 
other  hand,  there  are  fome  forts  of  Cattle 
which  will  yield  a  rich  Milk  for  Butter  in  any 
Pafture :    tho',  as  I  have  obferv'd  before,  the 
Milk  and  Butter  will  be  ill  tafted  if  the  Cows 
fed    upon    Crow-Garlick,    AUiaria,   or   Saxi- 
frage.    What  I  have  faid  of  this,  with  regard 
to  the  making  of  Cheefe,  muft  here  be  confi- 
der'd)  that  is,  if  the  Cows  feed  upon  fhort  fine 
Grafs,  there  will  be  more  Cream  in  the  Milk 
than  if  they  feed  upon  long  rank  Grafs.     In- 
deed the  long  rank  Grafs  will  give  more  Milk 
than  the  fhort,  but  lefs  Butter,  and  worfe  into 
the  bargain.     Again,  the  Milk  of  one  Cow 
fhall  give  richer  and  better  Butter  than  the 
Milk  of  others,  tho'  they  all  feed  on  the  fame 
Pafture,  even  fo  that  the  Milk  of  one  Cow  will 
cover  or  enrich  the  Butter  made  from  nine  or 
ten  other  Cows  5  her  Milk  will  make  Butter 
©f  a  rich  yellow  Colour,  full  of  Fatnefs,  and 
the  others  will  only  produce  a  pale,  lean  But- 
ter, but  all  together  will  be  good  :  I  know  fe- 
veral  Inftances  of  this,  and  every  one  who  is 
skilful  in  a  Dairy  may  obferve  it.     I  have  al- 
ready treated  largely  concerning  this  Particular, 


8  8  The  Country  Ladfs 

in  my  Works  of  Husbandry,  and  I  fhall  there- 
fore proceed  to  fpeak  of  the  Management  of 
Milk  in  the  Dairy  for  making  Butter  5  for  I  am 
very  fenfible,  that  many  Farmers  might  have 
twice  the  Benefit  from  their  Dairies,  if  the 
Articles  of  Butter  and  Chcefe  were  confider'd 
in  a  rational  way,  and  the  old  Cuftom  could 
be  broke  through  5  and  moreover,  if  the  beft 
Rules  for  managing  of  the  Dairy  were  known, 
and  put  in  pradice,  the  whole  Country  would 
be  the  better  for  it,  every  one  might  enjoy  the 
benefit  of  good  things :  whereas  for  want  of 
knowledge  among  fome  Farmers,  their  Goods 
are  of  fmall  value,  and  the  People  are  alfo 
diffatisfied. 

In  many  parts  oi  England ^  it  is  common  to 
fet  Milk  in  Brafs  Pans,  and  that  gives  an  ill 
Tafte  to  the  Milk  5  and  again,  there  is  a  cuftom 
of  fetting  the  Cream  in  Brafs-Kettles  over  the 
Fire,  and  as  it  warms  to  ftroak  the  Butter  as  it 
rifes  to  the  edge  of  the  Kettle  :  this  way  is  very 
bad  for  Butter,  for  the  warm  Brafs  affuredly 
will  fpoil  the  Tafte  of  the  Cream,  and  it  is 
often  fmoak'd.  The  fureft  way  is  to  fet  the 
Milk  in  glaz'd  Earthen  Pans  or  in  Leaden 
Pans,  but  the  Earthen  Pans  are  preferable. 
It  fhould  be  particuUriy  obferv'd,  that  the 
Dairy  be  kept  cool,  for  that  in  hot  Weather 
contributes  greatly  to  the  Advantage  of  the 
Butter  :  I  have  known  fome  that  have  had 
Streams  of  Water  running  thro*  them,  and  at 
the  fame  Places,  inftead  of  Glafs  Windows, 
there  have  been  no  Lights  at  all  to  them  but 

thro' 


Director.  S9 

thro'  Wyer,  and  Shutters  to  them,  to  open 
or  elofe  as  the  Sun  changed  its  Courfe.  The 
thatching  of  the  Dairy  is  much  cooler  alio  than 
Tyling  5  and  whatever  will  contribute  to  keep 
©ffthe  Sun,  fhouid  be  pradis'd.  There  are  yet 
in  fome  Places  in  England  fome  Farmers  that 
do  not  know  the  ufe  of  i:he  Churn  j  however, 
it  is  certain,  that  there  is  no  better  way  of 
making  Butter  than  by  that  means,  or  fome- 
thing  equivalent  to  it  i  that  is,  by  beating  the 
Cream,  fo  that  the  Oily,  or  ^at  Parts  feparate 
from  the  Watery  Parts,  in  the  moil  conilant 
and  gentle  way  that  is  poilible,  for  to  ufe 
this  beating  of  the  Cream  too  violently,  will 
make  the  Butter  like  Greafe  j  whereas  a  gentle 
beating  of  the  Cream  will  render  it  more 
firm  or  fliff:  and  befides,  when  the  Cream  is 
beat  with  too  much  hurry,  the  Butter  will 
ferment,  and  prefently  change  to  be  of  a  bad 
Taile  5  but  if  it  be  gently  beat  or  churned,  it 
will  be  firm,  and  will  be  fit  for  keeping.  A- 
gain,  it  muit  be  obferv'd,  that  as  the  beating 
or  churning  of  Cream,  to  bring  it  to  Butter, 
is  only  to  feparate  the  oily  from  the  watery 
Parts  of  the  Cream,  fo  when  once  you  begin 
to  churn,  or  beat  the  Cream,  you  muil  con- 
tinue to  churn  or  beat  it  in  the  moil  conilant 
manner  you  can,  till  the  Butter  is  made  :  for 
if  you  had  perhaps  beat  the  Cream  within 
three  or  four  Minutes  of  its  becoming  Buttei*^ 
if  you  leave  off  the  Work  but  a  Minute^  the 
oily  and  watery  Parts  will  return  to  one  a- 
nother,  and  will  require  as  much  Labour  as 

G  3  before 


90  The  Country  Lad/s 

before  to  feparate  them  :  it  is  like  Oil  and 
Vinegar  that  have  been  mix  d  by  Labour,  and 
then  let  alone  for  a  Minute  or  two,   they 
will  divide  and    feparate  from    one  another, 
as  much   as  if  they  had  never  been  mix'd  5 
but  the  beating  of  it  too  violently,  will  make 
the  Butter  oily,    as  obferv'd  before.     As  for 
the  Figure  of  our  common  Churn,  Ifhallnot 
give  a  draught  of  it,  becaufe  fuch  as  are  un^ 
acquainted  with  it  may  underftand  it  much  bet- 
ter by  feeing  a  Model  of  it,  which  may  be 
had  at  any  Toy-Shop  in  London  5    nay,  the 
very  beating  of  Cream  with  a  Spoon,  in  a  fmall 
Bowl,  will  bring  it  to  Butter  $  but  it  muft  be 
beat  regularly. 

In  the  great  Dairies  in  Holland^  where  one 
Farmer  keeps  four  or  five  hundred  Cows,  the 
Cream  is  put  into  a  large  Well,  lined  with 
Lead,  and  a  large  Beam  fet  with  crofs  Bars  is 
turn'd  in  the  Cream  by  a  Horfe  5  but  the  vio- 
lence of  the  Motion  makes  the  Butter  rather 
like  Oil  than  Butter ,  and  the  confequence  is, 
that  it  will  not  keep  long,  and  as  I  have  heard 
fay,  will  not  melt  well,  like  the  Biitter  that 
is  made  by  more  gentle  means.  Where  a 
gentle  way  is  ufed  in  making  Butter,  it  will  cut 
like  Wax,  and  it  fhould  efpecially  be  well 
"wrought  with  the  Hands,  when  it  is  frefh 
taken  from  the  Churn  and  falted  for  common 
ufe  5  for  if  the  Milk  be  not  well  work'd  out 
of  it,  the  Butter  will  not  keep.  However,  if 
Butter  begins  to  decay  in  goodnefs,  or  change 
to  au  ill  Tafte;>  l^t  it  be  worked  well,  and 

•vv^a(h'4 


Director.'  91 

wafh'd  with  Water,  and  it  will  come  to  itfelf, 
and  will  bear  faking  and  potting  as  well  as 
frefh  Butter  5  but  always  obferve  not  to  put 
up  Butters  of  feveral  forts  into  the  fame  Pot 
or  Veffel,  but  chufe  that  of  the  fame  Dairy, 
and  of  the  fame  making,  ifpollible.  One  of 
the  moft  curious  Women  I  have  met  with 
in  this  way,  is  Mrs.  Cowen^  a  Shopkeeper  at 
Newport  Vond  in  EffeXy  who  pots  great 
quantities  every  Year  3  there  are  undoubtedly 
many  others  who  are  very  good  in  this  way, 
but  as  I  do  not  know  them,  therefore  I  may 
be  excus'd  if  I  mention  her  in  particular. 

Again,  Butter  that  was  good  originally,  and 
well  potted,  may  be  wafh'd  and  beaten  in  the 
Winter,  fo  as  to  be  made  more  fweet  and  pala- 
table than  frefh  Butter,  made  in  many  Places, 
at  that  time  of  the  Year  5  and  this  is  frequently 
pradifed  about  London^  where  the  workers  of 
it  get  more  than  twice  the  firfl:  Price  of  the 
Butter,  by  their  Care  and  Labour. 

Before  1  conclude  this  Article,  it  may  be 
neceifary  to  obferve,  that  the  beft  managers  of 
the  Dairy  frequently  fill  up  their  Churns  with 
cold  Water,  before  they  put  in  the  Cream  to 
churn,  in  the  heat  of  the  Summer,  for  fear 
of  over-heating  the  Butter  in  the  making,  and 
in  the  Winter  heat  their  Churns  with  warm 
Water  before  they  ufe  them,  but  the  over- 
heating of  the  Churns  fpoils  the  Butter  5  the 
beft  way  is  to  fet  the  bottom  of  the  Churn 
in  warm  Water,  when  you  churn  in  cold 
Weather,  to  favc  Trouble, 

G  4  I 


92  The  Country  Ladys 

I  fhall  now  proceed  to  fay  fomething  of 
preparing  Cordial  Waters,-  for  this  Month 
gives  us  a  vail  variety  of  Herbs  in  full  per- 
fedion,  and  in  the  moft  proper  condition  for 
the  ufe  of  the  Shops,  whether  for  drying,  in- 
fufing,  difdlling,  &c. 

In  the  firft  place,  all  Herbs  defign'd  to  be 
dried,  mull  be  gather'd  in  dry  Weather,  and 
laid  in  fome  Room,  or  covered  Place,  to  dry  in 
the  Shade,  to  be  afterwards  ufed  for  infufion 
or  diftillation,  for  which  Bufincfs  the  dried 
Herbs  are  as  ufeful  as  the  green  Herbs,  if  they 
be  fuch  as  are  Aromatick,  viz.  Thyme,  Sweet 
Marjoram,  Savory,  Hyfop,  Sage,  Mint,  Rofe- 
mary,  the  Leaves  of  the  Bay-Tree,  the  Tops 
of  Juniper,  Gill,  or  Ground  Ivy,  and  fuch 
like:  Tiie  Infiifions,  or  Spirits,  drawn  from 
dried  Herbs  are  more  free  from  the  Earthy  and 
Watery  Parts,  than  the  Infufions,  or  Spirits 
drawn  from  green  Herbs.  I  obfcrve,  that  iu 
niakins;  fuch  Infufions  as  Teas  of  dried  Herbs, 
the  beft  way  is  to  pour  boiling  Water  upon 
them,  and  in  half  a  Minute,  at  mod,  pour 
out  the  Water  again  from  the  Herbs,  if  we 
have  them  in  fmall  quantities,  as  we  do  Sage 
Tea,  or  other  Tea  3  fuch  Tea  will  then  be  of 
a  fine  green  Colour,  and  full  of  Spirit :  but 
if  the  Herbs  ftand  longer  with  Water  upon 
them,  the  Water  will  change  of  a  brownifh 
Colour,  will  lofc  the  fine  Flavour  of  the 
Herb,  and  become  ill  tafted;  fo  that  in  the 
making  of  Sage  Tea,  for  example,  pour  on 
your  boiling  Water^  and  v/hen  it  has  been  half  a 

Minute 


Director^  91 

Minute  upon  the  Sage-Leaves,  pour  it  ofF  and 
fling  away  the  Leaves  5  for  if  you  pour  more 
Water  upon  them,  you  muft  expeft  your  Tea 
of  a  dark  Colour  and  ill  tafted  :  therefore  have 
frefh  Sage  to  every  frefh  quantity  of  Water. 
And  the  fame  method  fhould  be  ufed  in  the 
making  of  all  kinds  of  Teas,  to  make  them 
palatable  and  more  wholefome.  But  when  I 
fpeak  of  Teas  having  good  qualities  in  them, 
I  muft  not  be  underftood  to  mean  any  of  the 
Foreign  Teas,  fuch  as  Green,  and  Bohea  Teas, 
(ire,  for  1  have  had  experience  enough  in  them 
to  know  that  they  are  injurious  to  the  Body, 
of  which  1  fhall  fay  more  in  a  Treatife  by  it 
felf.  What  I  mention  here,  is  only  with  re- 
gard to  the  infufing  of  Herbs  in  the  Tea  man- 
ner 3  but  there  are  Infufions  of  Herbs  in  Spi- 
rits: here  the  Spirit  that  the  Herbs  are  put 
into,  muft  be  cold,  or  ufed  without  any  Fire  at 
ail,  and  the  Herbs  in  this  cafe  may  be  ufed  ei- 
ther green  or  dry  5  here  they  mayftand  feve- 
ral  days  before  the  Spirit  that  they  are  infus'd 
in  be  drawn  oft"",  as  the  following  Cordial, 
^aird  Surfeit  Water,  may  ferve  to  inftance. 

To  make  red  Surfeit-  Water.   Fram  Mrs,  B. 

T^O  three  Gallons  of  Brandy,  put  the  Flow» 
^  er  Leaves  of  aBufhel  of  red  Poppies,  one 
Pound  of  Raiflns  of  the  Sun  ftoned,  a  large 
Stick  of  Liquorice  diced,  a  quarter  Pound  of 
Caraway-Seeds  bruifed,  a  large  Handful  of 
Angelica,  Sweet  Marjoram,  red  Sage,  Dragon  s 
Mint,  and  Baulm,  of  each  a  handful  j  let  all 

thcfc 


94  The  Country  Ladfs 

thefe  be  cover'd  clofe  in  a  Glafs,  or  glaz'd 
Earthen  Veffel,  and  (land  to  infufe  or  fteep 
in  the  Brandy  for  nine  Days,  keeping  it,  during 
that  time,  in  a  Cellar  5  thenftrain  it  off  upon 
a  Pound  and  half  of  Loaf-Sugar,  and  put  it  into 
Bottles.  This  is  a  good  Cordial,  if  ufed  only 
when  occafion  requires. 

In  this  Month,  Orange-Flowers  are  in  the 
greateft  plenty  5  about  half  a  Pound  of  them 
put  into  a  Gallon  of  Brandy,  with  a  quarter 
Pound  of  Orange-Peel,  and  half  a  Pound  of 
double  refin  d  Loaf-Sugar,  makes  a  very  agreea- 
ble Cordial :  We  may  let  thefe  Ingredients  in- 
fufe in  the  Brandy  nine  or  ten  days  before  we 
pour  the  Brandy  from  them.  Some  chufe 
rather  to  put  the  Sugar  to  the  Brandy  after  it 
ispour'd  from  the  Orange-Flowers. 

As  for  the  diililiing  part, we  have  already  fe- 
veral  Books  which  treat  largely  of  that  Bufinefs, 
both  with  refped  to  the  management  of  what 
is  caird  the  cold  Still,  and  the  Alembick,  to 
which  I  fnail  refer :  ^but  in  this  place  I  Hiall 
only  take  notice,  that  whereas  feveral  kinds  of 
diftiird  Waters  are  drawn  from  many  Herbs, 
which  do  not  appear  all  the  Year  about ;  fo  if 
one  has  not  an  opportunity  of  colleding  all 
our  Herbs  together,  juft  w^hen  we  want  them, 
wc  may  yet  diftil  thofe  we  can  get  at  one 
time,  and  make  another  Diftillation  of  thofe 
we  collcft  at  another  time,  and  fo  mix  both 
Spirits  Qr  Waters  together:  For  Example,  in 
thofe  Cordial  Waters  where  the  Ros  Solis, 
or  Rofa  Solis  is  ufed,  which  is  an  Herb  not 

z  always 


Director.^  95 

always  to  be  found,  and  will  not  keep  above 
a  day  or  two  after  'tis  gathered,  this  I  fay  may 
be  diftiird  by  itfelf,  and  kept  to  ufe  with 
other  Waters  at  pleafure  5  putting  of  this  fuch 
a  proportion  as  would  have  been  produced 
from  the  quantity  direded,  of  the  Plant,  in  the 
Receipt,  if  it  had  been  diftilFd  with  the  other 
Herbs :  and  fo  of  any  other  Herb  that  is  hard 
to  come  by. 

This  Herb,  however,  I  may  inform  my 
Reader,  grows  in  Bogs,  and  when  we  find  it  we 
may  preferve  it  artificially,  by  cither  planting 
it  immediately  in  other  boggy  places,  or  elfe 
in  artificial  Bogs,  made  of  Earth  and  Water 
in  Tubs,  or  Earthen  Pots,  made  without  holes 
at  the  bottom. 

This  Seafon  affords  us  great  variety  of  Ne- 
ceffaries  for  Food,  in  the  Farm  and  Garden  ;  the 
PondFifh,  as  Pike  or  Jack,  Carp,  Tench,  and 
Perch,  as  well  as  Eels  are  in  Seafon,  and  may 
be  prepared  for  the  Tzhlc.^s d'ncOLcdinMarcb  5 
there  are  likewife  green  Geefe,  young  Ducks, 
Chickens,  Pigeons,  and  Rabbits  in  the  artifi- 
cial Warren  5  and  in  the  Garden,  Spinage  and 
Cabbage-Lettuce  to  boil^  fome  forward  Peafc 
and  Beans,  Afparagus,    Artichokes,    the  firft 
Cabbages,  and  Caulyflowcrs,  Cucumbers  for 
ftewing  and  in  raw  Sallads  :  however,  in  this 
Seafon  all  raw  Sallads  fhould  yet  partake  of 
fome  warm  Herbs,  as  I  have  direfted  in  my 
New  Improvement  of  Planting  ayid  Garden- 
ing,    The  Method  which  I  moft  approve  of 
for  dreffing  a  Sallad,  is,  after  v/e  have  duly 

pro- 


9<^  The  Country  Ladys 

proportioned  the  Herbs,  to  take  two  thirds  Oil 
Giive,  one  third  true  Vinegar,  fomc  hard  Eggs 
cutfmail,  both  the  Whites  and  Yolks,  a  little 
Salt  and  fome  Muftard,    all  which    muft  be 
well  mix'd  and  pour'd  over  the  Sallad,  having 
firft  cut  the  large  Herbs,  fuch  as  Sallcry,  En- 
dive, or    Cabbage-Lettuce,  but  none  of  the 
fmail  ones :  then  mix  all  thefe  well  together, 
that  it  may  be  ready  juft  when  you  v/ant  to 
ufe  it,  for  the  Oil  will  make  it  prefently  fof- 
XQ.ny  and  lofe  its  brisknefs.     Onions    fhould 
always  be  kept  in  referve,  becaufe  it  is  not 
every  one  that  like  their  relifli,  nor  is  Oil  a- 
greeable  to  every  one  j  but  where  Oil  is  not 
liked,  the  Yolks  of  hard  Eggs,  bruised  and  mix  d 
with  the  Vinegar,  may  be  ufed  as  above.    The 
difficulty  of  getting  good  Oil  in  England^  is,  I 
fuppofe,  the  reafon  why  every  one  does  not 
admire  it  5  for  I  was  once  of  opinion  I  could 
never  like  it :  but  when  I  was  once  perfuaded 
to  tafte  fuch  as  was  of  the  bed  fort,  I  could 
never  after  like  a  Sallad  without  it.     The  beft 
Oil  that  1  have  met  with  in  England^  is  at  Mr. 
Crojfe's,  a  Genouefe  Merchant,  at  the  Genoiiefe 
Arms  in  Katherine  Street ^   in   the    Strand^ 
London, 

As  for  the  ordering  of  the  above  Animals 
and  Vegetables  for  the  Table,  we  may  find 
Directions  in  this  Work. 

In  this  Month  gather  Elder-Flowers  when 
they  are  dry,  and  pick  them  from  the  Stalks  i 
kt  them  dry  in  the  Shade,  and  then  put 
an    Ounce  to   each  Quart   of  White-Wine 

2  Vinegar, 


Director.  ^y 

Vinegar,  to  (land  in  the  Vinegar  for  two 
Months,  then  pour  the  Vinegar  from  them 
for  ufe* 

About  the  end  of  this  Month  is  a  proper 
time  to  make  Sage- Wine,  which  is  a  very 
pleafant  one,  and  I  think  worthy  a  place 
among  the  bcft  Receipts. 

To  make  SageJVine.    From  Mrs,  E.  B. 

T^  O  three  Gallons  of  Water  put  fix  Pounds 
"*-  of  Sugar,  boil  thefe  together,  and  as 
the  Scum  rifes  take  it  off,  and  when  it  is  well 
boiled  put  it  in  a  Tub  boiling  hot,  in  which 
there  is  already  a  Gallon  of  red  Sage  Leaves 
clean  picked  and  wafh'd  i  when  the  Liquor  is 
near  cold,  put  in  the  Juice  of  four  large  Le- 
mons, beaten  well  with  a  little  Ale  Yeaft, 
mix  thefe  all  well  together,  and  cover  it  very 
clofe  from  the  Air,  and  let  it  ftand  forty 
eight  Hours  5  then  ftrain  all  thro'  a  fine  Hair- 
Sieve,  and  put  it  into  a  Veflel  that  will  but  juft 
hold  it,  and  when  it  has  done  working,  flop  it 
down  clofe,  and  let  it  ftand  three  W^eks  or  a 
Month  before  you  bottle  it,  putting  a  Lump 
of  Loaf- Sugar  into  every  Bottle.  This  Wine 
is  beft  when  it  is  three  Months  old.  After 
this  manner  you  may  make  Wine  of  any  other 
Herb  or  Plower^ 


yuNE. 


9S  The  Country  Lad/s 


JUNE, 


^^^HIS  Month  is  a  proper  Seafon  for 
making  feveral  forts  of  Wine,  whe- 
ther it  be  that  of  Goosberries,  Cur- 
rants, Q^erries,  Apricots,  or  Raf^ 
berries,  all  which  arc  very  agreeable  and  worth 
the  trouble  i  theExpence,  where  thefe  Fruits 
are  growing,  being  very  inconfiderablc.  The 
following  Receipts  are  approved  to  be  very 
excellent. 

Preliminaries  to  the  making  of  Goosberry- 

Wine. 

GOosbcrry-Wine  is  one  of  the  richeft  and 
ftrongeft  Wines  made  in  England,  it  will 
keep  many  Years,  and  improve  by  keeping, 
if  it  be  well  made  i  and  is  not,  in  my  opinion, 
inferior  to  Mountain  Malaga, 

To  make  this  Wine,  we  muft  have  regard 
to  the  fort  of  Goosberry  we  defign  to  ufe,  for 
there  is  a  great  deal  of  difference  in  the  time 
of  one  fort's  ripening  and  another :  the  earlieft 
ripe  are  the  Champaign,  the  Green,  the  Black, 
and  Red  hairy  Goosbenies,  every  one  of  which 
has  a  Flavour  diftinft  from  the  other  forts,  and 
fo  will  yield  each  of  them  a  Wine  of  as  diffe- 
rent arelifhfrom  the  reft,  as  one  may  cxpeft 

to 


Director.  99 

to   find  among  the  feveral   Varieties   of  the 
French  growth.     The  moft  forward  of  thefe 
kinds  2.boui  London  npcn  early  in  this  Month, 
if  the  Seafon  be  good  j  but  the  later  forts  arc 
not  generally  ripe  till  the  end  of  the  Month, 
or  in  y^fy'    The  later  forts  are  commonly  the 
white  Dutch,  the  Amber,  and  the  Walnut- 
Goos  berries,  each  of  which  has  like  wife  a  dif- 
ferent fort  of  tafte  :  of  the  Amber  efpecially 
I  have  known  an  excellent  Wine  to  be  made, 
Asain,  we  muft  confidcr,  that  as  to  the  time 
of  their  ripening,  the  diverfity  of  Situations 
will  forward    or  retard  them  a  Fortni^^ht  or 
three  Weeks ;  and  befides,  as  we  have  obfer- 
vcd  above,  every  Seafon  is  not  alike,   and  we 
muft  have  regard  alfo  to  the  difference  of  Cli- 
mate,   one    part    oi  Britain  is  three  Weeks 
fooner  or  later  than  another :  and  when  I  fay 
in  any  one  of  my  Kalendars,  or  Monthly  Di- 
redories,  that  any  particular  Fruit  is  ripe,    or 
any  particular  thing  is  to  be  done  in  fuch  a 
Month,  it  muft  be  underftood  that  it  is  gene- 
rally fo,   but  will  vary  now  and  then,  as  the 
-  Seafon  is  more    or   lefs    forward.     There  is 
likewife  another  thing  to  be  confider'd  rela- 
ting to  the  ripenefs  of  Fruits,    and  that  is,  the 
different  Opinions  or  Taftes  of  Mankind  5  fome 
call  them  ripe  when  they  juft  begin  to  turn  : 
but  what  I  mean  by  ripenefs,  is,  when  a  Fruit 
is  as  tender  as  it  can  be,  and   poffelling  its 
higheft:  Flavour :  And  by  thofe  Fruits  which  I 
call  half  ripe,  I  mean  fuch  as  have  their  in- 
j\^ard  Juices  fwcet,  and  their  outward  Parts  a 

little 


too  The  Cduntry  Lady's 

little  hard  and  four.  In  this  ftate  fliould  the 
Goosberry  be  gathered  for  making  of  Wine- 
See  the  following  Receipt, 

To  make  Goosberry -Wine, 

f^  Ather  your  Goosberries  in  dry  Weather; 
^*^  when  they  are  half  ripe,  as  I  have  ex- 
plained in  the  above  Preliminaries,  pick  therrt 
and  bruife  them  in  a  Tub,  With  a  wooden 
Mallet,  or  other  fuch  like  Inftrument,  fdr  nd 
Metal  is  proper  5  then  take  about  the  quantity 
of  aPeck  of  thebruifed  Goosberries,  put  theni 
into  a  Bag  made  of  Horfe-Hair,  and  prefs  theni 
as  much  as  poffible,  without  breaking  the 
Kernels  :  repeat  this  Work  till  all  your  Goos- 
berries are  prefs'd,  and  adding  to  this  prefs'd 
Juice,  the  other  which  you  v/ill  find  in  the  Tub, 
add  to  every  Gallon  three  Pounds  of  powder 
Sugar,  for  Lisbon  Sugar  will  give  the  Wine  a 
tafte  which  may  be  difagreeable  to  fome  Peo- 
ple, and  befides  it  will  fweeten  much  more 
than  the  dry  powder  Sugar  ;  ftir  this  together 
till  the  Sugar  is  diifolved,  and  then  put  it  in  a 
Veffel  or  Cask,  which  muft  be  quite  fiil'd  with 
it.  If  the  Veffel  holds  about  ten  or  twelve  Gal- 
lons, it  muft  ftand  a  Fortnight  or  three  Weeks  5 
or  if  about  twenty  Gallons,  then  about  four 
or  five  Weeks,  to  fettle,  in  a  cool  Place  :  thea 
draw  off  the  Wine  from  the  Lee,  and  after 
you  have  difcharg  d  the  Veffel  from  the  Lees, 
return  the  clear  Liquor  again  into  the  Veffel, 
and  let  it  ftand  three  Months,  if  the  Cask  is 
about  ten  Gallons  5  or  between  four  and  fiv6 

Months;, 


Dire  ct  or.  lot 

Months,  if  it  be  twenty  Gallons,  and  then 
bottle  it  off.  We  mufc  note,  that  a  fmall 
Cask  of  any  Liquor  is  always  iboncr  ripe  and 
fit  for  drinking  than  the  Liquor  of  a  larger 
Cask  will  be ;  but  a  fmail  Body  of  Liquor 
will  fooncr  change  four,  than  that  which  is 
in  a  larger  Cask.  The  Wine,  if  it  is  truly  pre- 
pared, according  to  the  above  Direftions,  will 
improve  every  Year,  and  laft  feveral  Years. 

Preliminaries  to  the  making  of  Currant 

Wine. 

T  is  to  be  noted,  that  tho'  there  are  two 
forts  of  Currants,  which  mav  be  ufed  for 
making  of  Wine,  that  is,  the  Red  and  the 
White  5  yet  the  Tafte  and  Goodnefs  will  be  the 
fame,  whether  'tis  made  of  the  White  or  the 
Red,  for  they  have  both  the  fame^Quaiities, 
except  \x\  the  Colour.  Obferve-^fo,  that  the 
Pruit  be  gatherd  in  a  dry  time,  and  that  if 
you  make  a  large  Quantity,  it  muft  ftand 
longer  in  the  VeiTcl,  before  bottling,  than  a 
fmall  Quantity. 

To  make  Currant  Wine. 

WHEN  your  Currants  are  full  ripe,  gather 
them,  and  pick  them  from  the  Stalks 
and  weigh  them,  in  order  to  proportion  your 
Water  and  Sugar  to  them.  When  this  is 
done,  bruifc  them  to  pieces  with  your  Hands, 
and  add  to  every  three  Pounds  of  Currants  a 
Quart  of  Water,  ftirring  all  together,  and  let- 
ting it  ftand  three  Hours,  at  the  end  of  which 

H  time, 


I02  The  Country  Ladfs 

time,  ftrain  it   off  gently  thro'  a  Sieve,  and 
put  your  Sugar  into  your  Liquor,    after  the 
rate  of   a  Pound  to  every  three  Pounds   of 
Currants.  This  Sugar  fliould  be  powder  Sugar, 
for  Lisbon  Sugar  would  give  the  Wine  an  ill 
Tafte.     Stir  this  well  together,  and  boil  it  till 
you  have  taken  off  all  the  Scum,  which  will 
rife  plentifully  ;    fet  it  then  to  cool,  at  lead 
fixteen  Hours,  before  you  put  it  into  the  Veffel. 
If  you  make  the  Quantity  of  twenty  Gallons, 
it  may  fland  in  the  Veffel  three  Weeks  before 
it  will  be  fit  for  bottling;  and  if  you  make 
thirty  Gallons,  then  it  muft  ftand  a  Month  be- 
fore it  be  bottled  off,  obferving  then  to  put  a 
fmall  Lump  of  Sugar  into  every  Bottle  5  it  muft 
be  kept  in  a  cool  place,  to  prevent  its  Fretting. 
By  this  Method  it  will  keep  good  many  Years, 
and  be  a  very  ftrong  and  pleafant  Wine,  at  a 
very  cheap  rate. 

It  isneceffary  to  obferve,  that  the  fame  fort  of 
Currant  is  not  always  of  the  fame  Sweetnefs 
when  it  is  ripe,  thofe  growing  in  the  Shade 
will  be  lefs  fweet  than  thofe  that  are  more  ex- 
pofed  to  the  Sun.  And  when  the  Summer 
happens  to  be  wet  and  cold,  they  will  not  be 
fo  fweet  as  in  a  dry  warm  Seafon  5  therefore 
tho'  the  Standard  of  the  above  Receipt  be  one 
Pound  of  Sugar  to  three  Pounds  of  pick'd  Cur- 
rants, yet  the  Palate  of  the  Perfon  who  makes 
the  Wine  fhould  be  the  Regulator,  when  the 
Sugar  is  put  to  the  Juice,  confrdering  at  the 
fame  time,  that  it  is  a  Wine  they  are  making, 
and  not  a  Syrup.    The  Sugar  is  only  put  to 

foften 


D  1  R  E  C  T  O  R.  TO 5 

fbften  and  prcfcrve  the  Juice,  and  too  much 
will  make  the  Wine  ropey. 

This  Sea  Ton  is  proper  tor  making  Cherry 
Wine,  the  Kenlifh  and  Flemijh  Cherries  being 
now  full  ripe,  which  are  much  the  bed  for 
this  purpofe  :  This  is  a  very  pleafant  ftrong 
Wine. 

To  make  Cherry  Wine, 

Atheryour  Cherries  in  dry  Weather,  when 
they  are  full  ripe,  pick  them  from  the 
Stalks,  and  bruife  them  well  with  your  Hands 
till  they  are  all  broken  5  then  put  them  into 
a  Hair  Bag,  and  prefs  them  till  you  have  as 
much  Liquor  from  them  as  v/ill  run  without 
breaking  the  Stones.  To  every  Gallon  of  this 
Juice,  put  one  Pound  of  powder  Sugar,  and 
having  itirr'd  it  well  together,  boil  it  and 
fcum  it  as  long  as  any  Scum  will  rife  5  then 
fct  it  m  a  cool  Place  till  it  is  quite  cold,  and 
put  it  into  your  Vcffel,  when  it  will  prefent- 
ly  begin  to  work.  When  the  Working  is  over, 
flop  the  Veffel  clofe,  and  \zx.  it  (land  four 
Months  3  if  it  holds  the  Quantity  of  twenty 
Gallons^  or  more  or  X^X^.-,  as  the  Quantity  hap- 
pens to  be,  then  bottle  it  off,  putting  a  Lump 
of  Loaf-Sugar  into  each  Bottle.  It  will  keep 
two  or  three  Years,  if  it  be  fet  in  a  cool 
Place. 

I  have  now  done  with  the  Wines  that  are 
to  be  made  in  this  Month  :  I  fhall  in  the  next 
place  fet  down  the  Method  of  keeping  or  pre- 
serving Pi^uits  for  Tarts  all  the  Year  about,  as  I 

H  ^  had 


id4  The  Country  Ladfs 

had  it  from  a  very  curious  Pcrfon,  in  whofc 
Houfe  1  have  fcen  it  pracliicd  with  extraor- 
dinary Succcfs.  The  Fruits  which  are  chiefly 
to  be  put  up  this  Month,  are  Goosberries,  Cur- 
rants and  Cherries.  , 

To  preferve  Fruits  for  Tarts  all  the  Tear. 

'Tp  H  E  Goosberrics  muft  be  full  grown,  but 
X    not  ripe,  they  muft  be  gathered  in  dry 
Weather,  and  pick'd  clean  of  their  Stalks  and 
Tops  5  then  put  them  into  Quart  Bottles,  that 
arc  made  on  purpofe,  with  large  wide  Necks, 
and  cork  them  gently  with  new  found  Corks, 
and  put  them  into  an  Oven  after  the  Bread  is 
drawn,  Jetting  them  ftand  there  till  they  have 
fhrunk  about  a  fourth  part,  obferving  to  change 
them  now  and  then,  bccaufe  thofe  which  you 
fet  at  the  further  part  of  the  Oven,  will  be 
fooneft  done.     When  you  find  them  enough, 
according  to  the  above  Dircdion,  take  them 
out,  and  immediately  beat  the  Corks  in  as  tight 
as  you  can,  and  cut  the  Tops  off  even  with  the 
Bottles,  and  pitch  them  over  i  you  muft  then 
fet  your  Bottles  by,  in  a  dry  Place,     I  have 
tafted  of  Fruits  done  this  way,  that  have  made 
as  good  Tarts  at  the  Year's  end,  as  thofe  that 
were  frefh  gathered  :   The  only  difference  be- 
tween  the   prefcrving  Goosberries  and  Cur- 
rants, is,  that  the  Currants  muft  be  full  ripe 
when  we  put  them  into  the  Bottles,  and  fo 
likewiic  the  Cherries. 

There  is  another  way  of  putting  up  Fruits 
for  this  ufe,  which  is,  by  half  preferving  them 

with 


Director.  105 

with  Sugar,  /.  e.  half  a  Pound  of  Sugar  to  eve' 
ry  Pound  of  Fruit.  Apricots  efpccially,  when 
they  are  near  ripe,  make  excellent  Tartsj  be- 
ing fp  I  it  and  pared  from  the  Skin,  and  boiled 
in  a  Syrup,  they  will  keep  the  Year  round,  as 
an  ingenious  Lady  has  told  me.  It  is  alfo  to 
be  remarked,  that  ripe  Goosberries  make  very 
fine  Tarts. 

The  beginning  of  this  Month,  when  the 
Goosberries  are  full  grown,  bat  not  ripe,  is  the 
right  Seafon  for  prefervingofthcm  in  fwect- 
meat :  The  white  Stitch  Goosbcrry  is  the  beft 
for  this  ufe. 

So  likewife  if  you  have  plenty  of  Kentijh 
Cherries,  pickfome  of  them  from  the  Stalks, 
and  lay  the  Cherries  upon  a  fine  Wire  Sieve, 
and  dry  them  in  an  Oven  5  when  they  are 
dried  enough,  and  quite  cold,  put  them  in  an 
Earthen  glazed  Jar,  and  (lop  them  up  clofe  : 
Thefe  muft  be  kept  in  a  dry  place. 

Upon  the  foot  of  the  above  Receipt,  for 
preferving    of  Fruits,  I  have  a  Notion    that 
we  may  preferve  green  Peafe,  aft^r  the  fame 
manner,  in  Bottles,  that  I  have  mentioned  for 
the  preferving  of  Goosberries,  Currants,  &€. 
So  that  they  will  eat  tender  and  well  tafted  at 
Chrijimas:  it  is  well  worth  the  tryal,  feeing 
that  a  Bottle  or  two  cannot  be  any  great  Ex- 
pence,    and  that  Peafe  are  acceptable  almoft 
to  every  one.     This  I  have  perfuaded  fome  of 
my  Acquaintance   to  try,  but  particularly  a 
very  curious  Perfon  in  fuch  matters,  who  tells 
me,  that  provided  this  method  anfwers  what 

H  3  we 


I  c6  The  Country  Ladfs 

we. aim  at,  he  fuppofcs  they  will  be  the  nioft 
agreeable,  either  to  be  boiled  with  Cream,  or 
(Icw'd  in  Gravey,  ^itcx  xho.  French  manner,  for 
it  is  a.difputc  with  him,  whether  they  will  hold 
their  green  Colour;  but,  as  I  oblerv'd  befoic, 
it  may  be  try'd  at  an  eafy  Expence. 

The  beginning  of  this  Month  is  the  time  to 
piekle  Walnuts,  for  then  the  Walnuts  have 
not  began  to  fhell,  and  mor^cTr  are  not  fo 
bitter  nor  hollow  as  they  will  be  afterwards^ 
they  will  now  be  full  fiefh'd,  and  you  will 
have  no  Lofs.  The  follov/ini;  Method  I  learnt 
from  Mr.  Foord^  a  curious  Gentleman  of 
Buckingham^  and  has  been  experienced  to  be 
the  bed  way.  There  is  one  thing  indeed 
which  mud  be  regarded  in  this  Pickle,  which 
is,  that  every  one  does  not  love  the  Tafte  of 
Onion  or  Garlick  j  but  that  may  be  omitted  as 
■WcplcafCjOnly  fupplyingthe  place  vyith  Ginger. 

To  pickle  Walnut Sr 

T^HE  Walnuts  being  vx  for  pickling,  wafh 
-^  them,  and  put  them  into  a  Kettle  to 
fcald  ;  theii  with  a  piece  of  Flannel  rub  off 
the  outer  Skin,  and  let  them  lie  till  they  are 
quire  cold,  after  v/hich  put  them  into  a  Veffel 
of  Salt  and  Water,  and  let  them  (land  24 
Hours  ^  then  take  them  out,  and  put  them 
again  into  frefn  Salt  and  Water  for  24  Hours 
rnorc  ;  then  lliift  them  as  before,  and  continue 
this  Fradice  for  fourteen^Days,  at  the  end  of 
which  time  wipe  them  dry,  and  lay  them  in 
a  glazed  earthen  Pot;,  Strattim  fiiper  Stratum^ 

with 


Director.  107 

with  Spice,    whole  Muftard-Seed,  Horfe-Ra- 
didi  {lic'd,  and  Garlick,  or  Efchalots :  that  is 
to  fay,  make  a  Layer  of  Walnuts,  aud  flrevv 
over  it  whole  Pepper,   Ginger  {lic'd,  Horie- 
Radifh  flicd,  feme  whole  Muftard-Seed^  and 
three  or  four  Cloves  of  Garlick  >  or  if  Garlick 
be  too  ftrong,  as  many  Cloves  of  Shalots, 
Then  lay  upon  thefe  anotherLayer  of  Walnuts, 
and  upon  them  the  Roots  and  Spices  as  before, 
and  fo  continue  till  your  Pot  is  full  s  then  pour 
over  the  whole,  as  much  boiling  Vinegar  as 
will  cover  them,  and  immediately  cover  the 
Pot  clofe,  and  let  it  fland  till  the  next  Day, 
when  we  may  again  pour  off  the  Vinegar  from 
them,  without  difturbing  them  i  and  making 
it  again  boiling  hot,  pour  it  upon  them,  and 
flop  them  clofe,  as  before,  to  be  fet  by  for  ufe. 
But  thefe  will  not  be  fit  for  eating  under  three 
Weeks  or  a  Month,  and  will  be  much  better 
by  keeping  a  few  Months, 

This  Month  is  a  proper  time  to  make  Sy- 
rup of  Clove-Julyflowers ,  and  likewife  to 
make  Julyflower  Wine,  which  is  a  very 
rich  Liquor,  and  may  be  made  in  the  beft 
manner,  by  the  following  Receipt  from  Mrs. 
B.  B. 

To  make  Julyflower  Wine, 

-npAKE  nine  Gallons  of  Water,  and  twenty 

-*-     four  Pounds  of  Su2;ar,  boil  thefe  on  a 

gentle  Fire  till  one  Gallon  is  lofl,  or  evapo- 

rated,  taking  off  the  Scum  as  it  rifes.     Then 

having  prepared  a  Bufhcl  of  Clove  Julyflowers, 

H  4  the 


I  OS  The  Country  Ladfs 

the  red  Flower  Leaves  only,  pour  the  Liquor 
fcalding  hot  upon  them,  and  coVer  them  clofc 
till  the  next  Day,  t.ien  prcffing  thcni  with  a 
Screw-pJxTs,  When  this  is  done,  bake  a  piece 
of  Bread  hard,  without  fcorching,  before  the 
Fire,*  and  while  it  is  warm,  fpread  fome  Ale- 
Yead  upon  it,  and  put  it  into  the  Liquor,  in  an 
open  Tub,  till  it  begins  to  work  or  ferment  s 
the  next  Day  after  which,  add  two  quarts  of 
Sack,  and  one  of  R/jemflo  Wme,  and  barrel 
it  for  three  Weeks  or  a  Month  ,  let  it  then 
be  botrled,  and  kept  in  a  cool  Place. 

In  this  Month  fuch  Curp  and  Tench  arc 
good  as  have  not  lately  fpawn'd  j  the  dreffing 
of  them,  and  of  Pikes,  or  Jacks,  fee  in  March, 
Perch  are  now  very  good,  the  large  ones  for 
ftewing,  as  recommended  for  Carp,  or  boiled 
or  fry'd,  or  clfein  the  Stitch  manner,  call'd 
Water  Soochy  ;  which  is  to  boil  the  Perches 
with  Salt  in  the  Waier,  and  Parflcy-Roots  and 
Parfley-Leaves,  to  be  brought  to  Table  in  the 
Water  they  are  boiled  in,  and  eaten  with  Bread 
'and  Butter.  'Tis  an  odd  way  to  the  Englifh, 
but  is  much  admir'd  by  many  Genlemcn  who 
have  travel  rd. 

The  Garden  is  now  very  rich  in  Eatables,  as 
may  befeeninmy  Gardener's  Kale?idarj  punt- 
ed for  Mr.  Mears, 

The  Tragopogon,  or  Goatsbeard,  is  now,  as 
well  as  in  the  former  Month,  fit  for  boiling; 
it  is  in  much  requcft  in  Ibmc  of  the  Weftern 
parts  of  England^  efpecially  about  Brijiol:,  as 
iani  infornVd,  where  the  Country  People  call 

it 


Director.  ioq 

it  Trangompoop,  or  Crangompoop,  a  corrup- 
tion, as  1  fuppofe,  from  the  true  Name  above 
written  :  This  is  eaten  like  Afparagus,  and 
drefs'd  the  fame  way,  the  part  which  is  eaten 
is  the  bloflbmy  Bud  a  little  before  it  would 
flower,  with  about  fix  Inches  of  the  Stalk  to  it. 

There  are  now  Chickens,  Pigeons,  Ducks, 
and  fome  young  wild  Ducks,  and  Rabbets, 
which  may  not  only  make  great  Variety  at  a 
Table,  to  be  drcft  after  the  common  plain 
way,  but  may  alfo  be  made  into  elgant  Difh- 
es,  ^fter  thefeveral  manners  mentionM  in  this 
WorK,  if  there  is  an  occafion  to  entertain 
particular  People  of  fine  Tafte. 

The  Ronceval  and  Mooretto  Peafe,  and 
Windfor  l^zzns,  are  alfo  good  helps  to  a  Table: 
I  need  fay  nothing  of  their  dreffing  j  but  that 
1  am  of  opinion,  that  the  W'mdfor  Beans, 
when  they  are  blanch'd,  that  is,  boiled  long  c- 
nough  till  we  can  take  off  their  Skins,  and 
then  put  into  large-neck'd  Bottles,  and  orier'd 
as  I  have  prefcrib'd  for  the  pireferving  of  Peafe  5 
by  this  means  I  fuppofe  they  may  be  prefcrv'd 
niany  Months  :  but  we  may  defer  this  Experi- 
ment till  the  end  oiSeptember^  to  be  try'd  up- 
on the  latter  Crops, 

Near  the  Sea  we  have  Mackrel  in  the  heidit 
of  perfcdion,  and  Mullet,  Turbut,  Herrings, 
Scare,  and  Soles,  as  alfo  Lobfters  and  Crabs ; 
and  in  the  Rivers,  Salmon  and  Trout  are  dill 
good,  and  fome  Cray-Fifh. 

'Tis  now  a  proper  Sealon  to  put  up  Rafp** 
berries,  either  in  Sweetmeat,  or  to  infufein 

3  Brandy  5 


no  The  Country  Lady > 

Brandy  5  but  they  muftbegathcr'd  dry.  There 
are  certain  People  who  know  how  to  mix 
thcfe  with  y^r^  Wine,  and  imitate  the  richeft 
Florence  Wine, 

About  Midftimmer  is  a  proper  time  to  put 
up  a  Boar  for  Brawn  againft  Chrijimas,  or  a- 
gainft  the  beginning  oiT>ecember^  for  then  is 
the  Seafon  it  fells  bcft,  and  is  chiefly  in  requeft, 
felling  at  that  time  for  twelve  Pence  ^er 
Pound. 

For  this  end  wefhould  chufe  an  old  Boar, 
for  the  older  he  is,  the  more  horny  will  the 
Brawn  be:  We  muft  provide  for  this  ufe  a 
Prank,  as  the  Farmers  call  it,  which  muft  be 
built  very  ftrong  to  keep  the  Boar  in.  The 
fifrure  of  the  Frank  fhould  be  fomewhat  like 
a  Dog-Kennel,  a  little  longer  than  the  Boar, 
which  we  put  up  fo  clofeon  the  Sides  that  the 
Boar  cannot  rum  about  in  it,  the  Back  of  this 
Frank  muft  have  a  Aiding  Board,  to  open  and 
fnur  at  pleafure,  for  the  convcniency  of  taking 
away  the  Dung,  which  fhould  be  done  every 
Day.  When  all  this  is  very  fccure,  and  made 
as  directed,  put  up  your  Boar,  and  take  care 
that  he  is  fo  placed,  as  never  to  fee  or  even 
hear  any  HogSj  for  if  he  does,  he  will  pine  a- 
way,  and  lofe  more  good  Flcfh  in  one  Day 
than  he  gets  in  a  Fortnight :  He  muft  then  be 
fed  Vv^ith  as  many  Pcafe  as  he  will  eat,  ahd  as 
much  skinVd  Milk,  or  flet  Milk,  as  is  neceffa^ 
ry  for  him.  This  method  muft  be  ufed  with 
him  till  he  declines  his  Meat,  or  will  cat  very 
little  of  it,  and  then  the  Peafe  muft  be  left 
a  off. 


Director,  hi 

off,  and  he  muft  be  fed  with   Fade   made  of 

Barley  Meal,  made  into  Balls  as  big  as  large 

Hen-Eggs,  and  ftill  the  Skim-Milk  continued, 

till  you  find  him  decline  that  likewife,  at  which 

time  he  will  be  fit  to  kill  for  Brawn  5   the  Di- 

reftions  for  making  of  which,  with  the  Pickle 

for  it^  fee  in  the  Month  of  "December,     During 

the  time  he  is  thus  feeding,  great  care  muft  be 

taken  that  he  has   always  Meat  before  him, 

for  negled  in  this  will   fpoil  the  whole  De- 

fign. 

This  is  the  way  of  feeding  a  Boar  for  Brawn, 
jbut  I  cannot  help  thinking  'tis  a  little  barba- 
rous, andefpeciaily  asthe  Creature  is  by  fome  ^ 
People  put  in  foclofeaPen,  that  as  I  hear,  it 
cannot  lie  down  all  the  while  'tis  feeding  ;  and 
atlaft,  confideringthe  exp,ence  of  Food,  Brawn 
is  but  an  infipid  kind  of  Meat  :  however,  as 
fome  are  lovers  pf  it,  it  is  neceffary  to  prefcribe 
the  method  which  fhouid  be  ufed  in  the  prepa- 
ring it. 

In  this  Month  we  have  plenty  of  Artichokes, 
and  it  is  a  good  Scafon  to  put  them  up  for 
Winter  ufe,  to  be  ufed  finiply,  or  to  be  put 
in  Sauces,  or  in  compound  Diflies,  they  are 
eafily  dried  or  pickled,  to  be  kept,  and  if  they 
are  not  gatherd  as  foon  as  they  are  in  their 
perfedion,  they  will  lofe  the  goodnefs  of 
their  Hearts,  or  the  Botroms,  as  fome  call 
them.  In  a  plentiful  Year  of  them  I  have  had 
a  great  number  dried  for  Winter  ufe^  in  the 
following  manner. 

Con- 


1 1 2  The  Country  Ladfs 

Concerning  the  gathering-,  and  ordering  Arti-^ 
chokes  for  drying. 

IN  the  gathering  of  Artichokes,  obftrve,  that 
the  Leaves  of  what  is  caird  the  Artichoke 
be  pointing  inwards,  and  lie  clofe  at  the  Top, 
for  then  the  Bottom  will  be  large  and  full  -,  but 
if  you  find  many  of  the  Leaves  of  the  Arti- 
choke fprcad  from  the  Top,  then  the  Choke, 
or  briftly  part  is  fhot  fo  much,  that  it  has  drawn 
out  much  of  thcHcartof  the  Artichoke^  and 
as  the  Flower  comes  forward,  the  more  that 
grows,  the  thinner  will  be  the  Bottom,  which 
is  frhe  beft  part  of  it. 

When  you  cut  the  Artichoke,  cut  it  with 
a  long  Stalk,  that  when  you  ufe  it  you  may 
clear  it  well  of  its  Strings,  which  will  €i{z 
fpoil  the  goodnefs  of  the  Bottom,  wherein 
the  Strings  will  remain  j  to  do  this,  lay  the  Ar- 
tichoke upon  a  Table,  and  hold  it  down  hard 
with  one  Hand,  while  with  the  other  Hand 
you  pull  the  Stalk  hard  up  and  down,  till  it 
quits  the  Artichoke,  and  will  then  pull  away 
the  Strings  along  with  itj  this  being  done, 
lay  the  Artichokes  in  Water  for  an  Hour,  and 
then  put  them  into  a  Kettle  of  cold  Water  to 
boil,  till  they  are  tender  enough  to  feparate  the 
Leaves  and  the  Chokes  from  them.  When  this 
is  done,  lay.  the  Hearts,  or  Bottoms  upon  a 
Cullender,  or  fome  other  thing,  to  drain  con- 
veniently 5  then  dry  them  upon  a  Wire  Sieve, 
or  Gridiron,  in  a  gentle  Oven,  by  degrees, 
till  they  arc  as  hard  as  Wood.   Thefe  will  keep 

good 


Director.  i  i  j 

good  twelve  Months  if  they  are  laid  by  in  a 
dry  Place. 

When  we  want  to  ufe  thefe  for  boiling, 
frying,  or  to  accompany  other  Meats,  we  muft 
put  them  into  warm  Water^  often  repeating  it 
10  them  for  eight  and  forty  Ho^tts ;  by  which 
means  they  will  come  to  themfelves,  and  be  as 
good  when  they  come  to  be  fcaldcd  as  if  they 
were  frefh  gathered.  But  they  may  alfo  be 
preferv'd  after  the  following  manner. 

Second  Way  to  preferve  Artichokes, 

TT Aving  chofcn  your  Artichokes  according 
-*--*•  to  the  above  Diredions,  cut  the  Bottoms, 
with  a  (harp  Knife,  clear  of  their  Leaves  and 
their  Chokes,  flinging  them  immediately  into 
cold  Water,  to  prevent  their  turning  black. 
When  they  have  lain  in  the  Water  for  (^"^(^11 
or  eight  Minutes,  wafh  them  and  drain  them 
a  little,  and  then  fling  them  into  Wheat  or 
Barley  Flower,  fo  that  they  be  all  over  covered 
with  it  5  after  which,  lay  them  upon  Wire- 
Sieves,  or  Pieces  of  Wicker-work  to  dry  in 
an  Oven  gently,  till  they  are  quite  dry  and 
hard:  thefe  muft  be  kept  in  a  dry  Place,  and 
when  they  are  to  be  ufed,  fteep  them  in 
Water  four  and  twenty  Hours,  and  boil  them 
till  they  are  tender,  they  will  eat  as  well  as  if 
they  were  frefh  cut. 

The  Artichoke  may  likewife  be  pickled  in 
the  following  manner. 

To 


114  The  Country  Ladfs 

To  preferve  Artichokes  by  Tickling. 

f^^  Athcr  and  prepare  your  Artichokes  as  be* 
^^  fore,  and  put  them  into  cold  Water  to 
boil,  with  a  moderate  quantity  of  Salt ;  then 
take  them  off  the  Fire,  and  let  the  Water 
ftandinthe  Kettle  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
till  the  Salt  is  fettled  to  the  bottom  5  then 
pour  off  your  Water  clear  into  an  Earthen 
glazed  Veffel  where  you  defign  to  put  your 
Artichokes,  and  clearing  them  ftom  the  Leaves 
andChoaks,  wafh  them  well  in  two  or  three 
Waters,  and  put  them  in  the  Brine  or  Pickle 
they  were  boiled  in,  when  both  are  quite,  cold  ; 
upon  which  pour  as  much  Oil  as  will  cover 
it  half  an  Inch  thick,  or  where  Oil  is  want- 
ing, melted  Butter  will  ferve  ;  be  fure  you  put 
fo  much  as  will  keep  the  Air  from  the-Arti- 
chokes.  Some  will  add  fome  Vinegar  to  the 
Water,  but  that  is  at  pleafure  5  when  this  is 
done,  cover  the  top  of  the  Earthen  Pot  ciofe 
with  Paper,  and  lay  a  Board  over  it  to  keep  it 
from  any  Air,  or  elfe  cover  the  Pot  with  a 
wet  Bladder,  and  tie  it  down  clofe.  They  will 
keep  good  a  Year,  and  when  we  want  to  ufe 
them,  lay  them  to  fteep  in  cold  Water  to  take 
out  the  Salt  5  you  may  fliift  the  Water  three  or 
four  times,  they  will  be  the  better  for  it,  and 
then  ufe  them  in  Pyes,  or  other  compound 
Difhes. 

In  Holland  I  have  often  eaten  the  fmall 
Suckers  of  Artichokes  fry 'dp  which  have  made 


D  I  R  E  c  T  o  :ft.  115 

an  agreeable  Difii.     The  Receipt  for  preparing 
them  is  the  following. 

To  fry  fmall  Stickers  of  Artichokes  j  or  fmall 

Artichokes. 

GAther  the  young  Heads  of  Artichokes,  and 
boil  them  with  Salt  and  Water  till  they 
are  tender  $  thefe  Artichokes  fhould  be  no 
bigger  thati  middling  Apples  5  fplit  thefe  in 
four  or  fix  Parts  each,  flower  them  well,  and 
fry  them  crifp  in  Hogs-lard,  and  eat  them 
with  Butter,  Pepper,  and  a  little  Verjuice  or 
Orange-Juice.  ' 

It  is  a  common  praftice  in  France  to  eat 
the  fmall  Heads  of  Artichokes  raw,  with  Vi- 
negar, Pepper,  and  Salt  j  the  Method  is  to  pull 
off  the  fingle  Leaves,  and  dip  the  flelhy  part 
of  the  Leaves  into  it  and  eat  that.  They  are 
agreeably  bitter,  and  create  an  Appetite. 

This  Month  Rasberries  are  ripe  i  arid  as  they 
make  a  moft  pleafant  Wine,  I  fhall  here  give 
the  Receipt  for  making  it. 

To  make  Rasberrj  Wine. 

Tp  O  every  Quart  of  the  Juice  of  Rasber- 
-*-  ries,  put  a  Pint  of  Water,  and  to  every 
Quart  of  Liquor  a  Pound  of  fine  Sugar  >  then 
fet  it  on  the  Eire  to  boil  half  an  hour,  taking 
off  the  Scum  as  it  rifes :  then  fet  it  to  cool, 
and  when  it  is  quite  cold,  put  it  in  a  Veffel 
and  letitftandten  Weeks  or  fomething  more 
if  the  Weather  prove  cold  ,  when  it  is  fettled, 
bottle  it,  and  it  will  keep  two  Years.    Alrho' 

I 


2 1  <5  The  Country  Ladfs 

I  have  fct  down  in  this  Month  a  good  expc« 
rienced     way    of  making    Goosbcrry   Wine> 

which  will  keep  twenty  Years,  and  grow  better 
by  Age;  yet  Icannoi  pais  by  a  Receipt  which 
is  highly  commended  for  making  Wine  of  Red 
Goosberries,which  I  had  from  an  Acquaintance 
who  frequently  makes  it. 

To  make  Red  Goosberry  Wine. 

ti/HEN  the  Red  Goosbcrries  are  well 
^^  coloured  and  not  over-ripe,  but  grateful 
to  the  Tafte,  gather  them  in  a  dry  Day  i  take  a 
Peck  of  thcfe,  and  flit  them  a  little  more  than 
half  thro'  the  middle,  putting  them  into  a 
large  glazed  Earthen  Pan,  with  eight  Pounds 
of  fine  powder'd  Sugar  ftrew*d  over  them^ 
then  boil  four  Gallons  of  Cyder,  and  pour  it 
boiling  hot  upon  the  Sugar  and  Goosbcrries : 
this  muft ,  ftand  eight  or  ten  Days,  ftirring  it 
once  each  Day,  and  at  length  (train  it  thro'  a 
Plannel  in  a  Prefs,  and  put  the  Liquor  into 
the  Veffcl  with  a  warm  Toaft  of  Wheat- bread, 
fpread  on  both  fides  with  Ale-Yeaft  5  this  muft 
ftand  two  or  three  Months  till  it  is  fine,  and 
then  bottle  it.  This  is  a  very  ftrong  Wine, 
and  of  a  bright  red  Colour. 


JU  LT. 


Director. 


117 


JUL  T. 


HIS  Month  is  the  principal  Seafon 
for  pickling  of  Cucumbers,  for  that 
Fruit  is  now  in  the  greatcft  Perfedion, 
as  well  for  pickling  them  in  imitation 
of  Mango's,  or  as  Girkins.  They  are  no\v  to  be 
had  in  great  plenty,  and  are  free  from  Spots. 

The  follovjtng  is  an  extraordinary  i^eceipt  for 
pickling  ofCticumbers  to  imitate  Mango's. 

Ather  large  Cucumbers  of  as  green  a  Co- 
lour as  may  be,  walli  them  well  in  com- 
mon Water,  and  then  either  cut  off  th^ir 
Tops,  and  fcoop  out  all  the  feedy  part,  or  elfc 
cut  a  Slice  out  of  the  Side  of  each  of  them, 
and  fcrape  out  the  feedy  part  with  a  fmall 
Spoon,  taking  care  not  to  mifmatch  the  Slices 
or  Tops  of  the  Cucumbers,  that  they  may 
tie  up  the  better  when  we  come  to  fill  them 
with  Spices,  (^c.  When  we  have  thus  pre- 
pared enough  to  fill  the  Jar  or  Earthen  Veffci 
which  we  defign  for  them,  peel  fome  Garlick 
or  Shalots,  which  you  like  beft,  and  put 
cither  two  Cloves  of  Shalot  into  each  Cucum- 

I  ber. 


ii8  The  Country  Ladfs 

ber,  or  one  middling  Clove  of  Garlick  5  and 
alfo  into  every  one  put  a  thin  flice  or  two  of 
Horfe-radiili,  a  flice  of  Ginger,  and,  accord- 
ing to  cuftom,  a  Tea  Spoonful  of  whok 
Muftard'feed  5  but,  in  my  opinion,  that  may- 
be left  out.  Then  putting  on  the  tops  of  the 
Cucumbers,  or  the  Slices  that  were  cut  out 
of  them,  tie  them  clofe  with  ftrong  Thread, 
and  place  them  in  your  Jar.  Then  prepare 
your  Pickle  of  Vinegar,  which  we  fuppofe  to 
be  about  five  Quarts  to  two  dozen  of  large 
Cucumbers,  to  which  put  about  a  Pound  of 
Bay-Salt,  half  an  Ounce  of  whole  Pepper, 
about  an  Ounce  of  Ginget  fliced,  and  a  large 
Root  of  Horfe-radilli  fliced  5  boil  thefe  in 
a  brafs  Sauce-pan  for  about  fifteen  Minutes, 
taking  off  the  Scum  as  it  rifes,  and  then  pour 
it  upon  your  Cucumbers,  and  cover  the  top 
of  the  Veffel  with  a  coarfe  Linncn  Cloth 
four  or  five  times  double,  and  ict  the  Veffci 
near  the  Tire  to  keep  warm  j  the  day  follow- 
ing you  will  find  them  changed  to  a  yellow 
Colour,  but  that  will  alter  in  a  day  or  two  to 
be  much  greener  than  they  were  at  firft,  if  you 
ufe  the  following  Method :  Pour  all  your 
Pickle  into  a  brafs  Skellet,  and  add  to  it  a 
piece  of  AUum  as  big  as  a  Walnut,  and  fet  it 
over  the  Fire  till  it  boils,  then  pour  it  on  your 
Cucumbers  as  before,  and  repeat  the  fame 
every  day  till  the  Cucumbers  are  of  the 
Greennefs  you  defire.  When  you  have  pour'd 
on  your  Pickle  for  the  laft  time,  the  Jar  muft 
^<   covered    as    before,    but    remain  without 

Cork- 


Director.  119 

fcorking  till  it  is  quite  cold,  then  flop  it  clofe 
and  fet  it  by,  in  a  dry  place.  The  Corks  for 
the  flopping  of  chefejars  fhould  be  cover'd  with 
fofc  glove-leather,  for  the  naked  Corks  will 
make  the  Pickles  mufty.  Seethe  Mango's  made 
of  green  Melons  in  the  Month  of  September. 

To  prefer  "ve  Green  Cucumbers  for  Jltcingin  the 
Winter^  by  Mr.  Foord  of  Buckingham. 

Ather  Cucumbers  half  grown,  that  is,  be- 
fore they  incline  to  be  feedy,  pat  them  ia 
Salt  and  Water  for  five  or  fix  days,  iliifting  it 
every  day  5  then  wipe  them  dry,  and  put  them 
in  Vinegar  with  a  little  AUum  to  green  over  the 
fire;  then  take  out  the  Cucumbers,  and  boil 
the  pickle  to  pour  hot  upon  them,  covering 
the  Mouth  of  the  jar  with,  a  coarfe  Cloath 
four  or  five  times  doubled,  and  let  the  Jar 
(land  near  the  fire.  When  this  Pickle  is 
quite  cold,  flop  the  Jar  clofe  with  a  Icathcr'd 
Cork,  as  mention'd  in  the  foregoing  Pvcceipt 
for  Mango  Cucumbers.  Thefe  Cucumbers 
may  be  ufed  in  the  Winter  to  be  pared  and 
fliced  like  thofe  gather'd  frefh  from  the  Gar- 
den 5  you  may  cut  an  Onion  with  them,  and 
tat  them  with  Pepper,  Vinegar  and  Oil. 

To  'Trickle  Cucumbers^  from  Mr.  Foord 
of  Buckingham. 

1^"^  Ather  the  fmalleft  Cucumbers  you  can 
^^  find,  for  it  is  the  fmalleft  Size,  v/hich 
is  mod  commonly  brought  to  table  anicng 
People  of  the  firflRank  5  the'  a  Cucumber  of 

I  2  two 


I20  The  Country  Ladfs 

two  Inches4ong  will  do  very  well,  or  even  one 
of  three  Inches.  Thefe  muft  be  put  in  Salt  and 
Water,  to  be  fhifted  every  day  till  they  change 
to  a  yellow  colour  :  wipe  them  dry,  and  prepare 
Pickle  of  Vinegar,  a  piece  of  Allum  as  big  as 
a  Wallnut  to  a  gallon,  or  in  proportion. 
Ginger  iliced,  Mace,  whole  Pepper,  a  few 
Bay-leaves,  and  fome  Dill-Seed,  which  will  do 
better  than  the  Herb  it  felf.  Tye  the  Seeds 
in  a  piece  of  Muflin,  that  when  the  Pickle  by 
boiling  is  ftrong  enough  of  the  Dill,  you  may 
take  it  out.  This  Pickle,  when  it  is  of  aright  fla- 
vour, muft  be  pour'd  boiling  hot  upon  the  Cu- 
cumbers, which  muft  belaid  in  a  Stone  ]ar  or 
Gallypot  proper  for  them,  and  then  cover'd  with 
a  coarfe  Linnen  Cloth  folded  in  feveral  Doubles, 
and  let  them  ftand  near  the  fire :  Repeat  the 
boiling  of  the  Pickle  every  day,  pouring  it  hot 
upon  the  Cucumbers,  and  covering  them  as 
before,  till  they  become  of  the  green  colour 
you  dcfirc.  When  they  are  quite  cold,  flop 
them  up  clofe  with  a  leathered  Cork,  as  directed 
in  the  former  Receipt,  if  you  ufe  ajar,  or  elfe 
if  you  make  ufe  of  a  Gallypot,  tye  them  down 
with  Leather  or  a  wet  Bladder.  It  is  to  be 
underftood,  that  Allum  and  boiling  Vinegar 
will  ftrike  a  green  colour  to  any  unripe  Fruit  5 
but  care  muft  be  taken  that  too  much  Allum 
be  not  ufed,  left  the  ftomach  be  offended  by  it. 
It  is  a  cuftom  in  fome  places  to  pickle  the  green 
Pods  of  Capficum  Indicum  with  their  Cucum- 
bers, w^iich  will  contribute  to  make  them 
^nuch  hotter  or  warmer  to  the  Stomach,  and 

promote 


Director.  121 

promote  Digeftion  in  cold  Conftirutions.  But 
the  Capfictims  fhould  be  boiled  in  Water  gently, 
and  wiped  dry,  before  you  put  them  among 
the  Cucumbers,  where  they  muft  be  placed 
before  the  Pickle  is  poured  upon  them. 

Kidney-Beans  are  pickled  the  fame  way  as 
the  Cucumbers,  only  leaving  out  the  Dill  5 
and  the  Dill  alfo  may  be  left  out  of  the  Cu- 
cumber-Pickle, if  it  is  not  agreeable  to  the  Pa- 
late 5  and  folikewife  in  other  Pickles,  Garlick 
or  Onions,  or  any  particular  Spice  may  be  left 
out  which  is  difagreeable,  for  it  is  not  the  bufi- 
nefs  here  to  pin  down  the  Palate  of  any  one  to 
a  certain  Relifli  that  I  may  like  my  felf,  but  to 
put  it  in  the  power  of  every  one  to  prefcrve  or 
order  fuch  things  as  a  Farm  or  Garden  affords, 
fo  that  they  may  be  pleafed  with  them.  The 
Receipts  which  I  have  here  given,  are  what  I 
have  generally  found  to  be  the  moft  approved. 
We  have  fome  who  pickle  the  green  Fruit  of 
the  Paflion-Tree,  the  Berougella,  and  Fig : 
but  for  my  part  I  can  find  nothing  to  recom- 
mend them,  but  the  relifh  of  the  Pickle,  neither 
are  they  by  any  means  wholefome. 

The  Flowers  of  the  Najiurtium  Indicum 
make  an  excellent  Sallad  in  this  Month,  and 
the  Seeds  of  the  Plant,  while  they  are  green, 
may  be  pickled  to  our  fatisfaftion  :  the  Receipt 
for  pickling  them  is  as  follows. 


To 


122  The  Country  Lady s 

To  pickle  Nafiurtium  Seeds. 

/^^  Ather  the  Seeds  when  they  are  full  grown 
^^  and  srecn,  in  a  dry  day,  and  lay  them  in 
Salt  and  Water  for  two  or  three  days  5  then 
boil  Vinegar,  with  fome  M^ce,  Ginger  fliced, 
and  a  few  Bay-Leaves,  for  fifteen  Minutes,  and 
pour  it  boihng  hot  upon  them,  covering  them 
With  a  Cloth,  as  prefcribed  in  this  Month  for 
the  otiier  Fickics,  and  repeat  the  boiling  of  the 
Pickle,  and  fcalding  them  with  it  for  three 
days  fucceffively  J  and  when  the  laft  is  poured 
on,  let  it  be  cold  before  you  cork  it  up.  The 
folded  Cloth  which  fhould  be  put  over  the 
Mouth  of  the  Jar,  will  fufFer  fome  of  the 
Steam  of  the  Pickle  to  pafs  thro' it,  and  by  that 
means  the  Pickles  will  not  turn  mouldy,  fo 
foonas  they  might  othcrwife  do,  and  befides 
will  be  much  greener  than  if  they  were  to  be 
clofe  flopped.  All  thefe  Pickles  fhould  be 
kept  in  a  dry  Place,  and  look'd  into  every 
Month,  led  by  chance  they  turn  mouldy  5 
which  if  you  find  they  incline  to,  boil  the 
Pickle  afrelTi,  and  pour  it  on  them  as  before. 

There  isnovv  the  Skerret  fit  to  be  catena 
it  is  a  very  nourifhingand  pleafant  Root,  and 
is  prepared  in  the  following  manner  for  the 
Table  :  the  Culture  of  it  is  let  forth  at  large 
in  my  new  Improvements  of  Planting  and 
Gardenings  printed  for  Mr.  MearSy  near  Tem- 
ple-Bar.* 

THE 


Director.  123 

THE  Skerret;,  tho'  it  is  none  of  the  largcft 
Roots,  yet  is  certainly  one  of  the  befl 
Produds  of  the  Garden,  if  it  be  rightly  drefs'd  5 
the  way  of  doing  which,  is  to  walh  the  Roots 
very  well,  and  boil  them  till  they  are  tender, 
which  need  not  be  very  long.  Then  the  Skin 
of  the  Roots  muft  betaken  off,  and  a  Sauce  ot 
melted  Butter  and  Sack  pour'd  over  them.  In 
this  manner  are  they  fervid  at  the  Table,  and 
eaten  with  the  Juice  of  Orange,  and  iome 
likewifeufe  Sugar  with  them,  but  the  Pvoot  Is 
very  fweet  of  itfelf. 

Some,  after  the  PvOOt  is  boil'd,  and  the  Skin 
is  taken  off,  fry  them,  and  ufe  the  Sauce  as 
above  :  Solikewifc  the  Roots  ofSaifify  and 
Scorzonera  are  to  be  prepared  for  the  Table. 

The  Apple  call'd  the  Codlin  is  in  good  per- 
f  wdion  for  fcalding,  the  manner  of  doing  which, 
that  they  may  be  brought  to  Table,  of  a  fine 
green  Colour,  is  as  follows. 

1^^  Ather  your  Codlins  half  grown,  and  with- 
^-*'  out  Spots,  for  if  they  are  fpotted,  they  are 
commonly  Worm-eaten  5  fcald  them  in  Water 
till  the  Skin  will  come  off  eafily,  then  put  them 
again  into  cold  Water,  and  a  fmall  piece  of 
Allum  to  green  in  a  BrafsPan  over  the  Fire; 
which  they  will  foon  do  if  they  are  kept  dole 
covered. 

The  following  Receipt  is  fcnt  me  by  a  cu« 
rious  Perfon  for  pickling  of  Codlins,  in  imi- 
tation of  Mansio. 

I  4  Gather 


1^4  ^-^^  Country  Lady's 

Gather  Codlins  green  and  near  fiiii  grown, 
blanch  them,  that  is,  fcald  them  in  foft  Wa- 
ter till  the  SkinHvill  peel  off,  then  prepare 
your  Picklt  of  Vinegar  and  Bay  Salt,  about 
^  large  Spoonful  of  Salt  to  a  Quart  of  Vine- 
gar, three  or  four  Cloves  of  Garlick,  a  quar- 
ter of  an  Ounce  of  Ginger  fliced,  and  as  much 
whole  Pepper  5  boil  this  in  a  Brafs  Pan,  with 
2.  piece  of  Allum  as  big  as  a  Horfe-Bean,  for 
half  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  pour  it  hot 
upon  your  Codlins,  covering  the  Mouth  of 
the  Jar  with  a  Cloth,  and  let  it  ftand  by  the 
Pire-fide  5  boil  the  Pickle  again  the  day  fol- 
lowing, and  apply  it  as  before,  arid  repeat  the 
fame  till  your  Codlins  are  as  green  as  you 
defire,  and  when  they  are  quite  cold,  cork  them 
clofc,  and  fet  them  by  in  a  dry  place.  There 
is  one  thing  muft  however  be  obfervcd  in  all 
thefePicklin^s,  which  is,  that  if  the  Pickles 
do  not  come  to  their  fine  green  Colour  pre^ 
Icntly,  br  boiling  often  of  the  Pickle  at  firft, 
yet  by  ftanding  three  or  four  Weeks,  and 
then  boiling  the  Pickle  afrefli,  they  will  conic 
to  a  good  Colour  5  and  then  your  Pickles  will 
cat  the  firmer  and  keep  the  longer,  when  they 
are  not  too  foon  brought  to  Colour. 

In  this  Adonth  we  have  the  Morcllo  and 
Black  Cherry  ripe,  which  both  arc  pleafant 
in  Brandy  j  to  thofe  who  would  have  Drams 
by  them,  the  way  of  making  Black-Cherry 
Brandy,  is  only  to  pick  the  Cherries  from 
the  Stalks,  and  put  them  whole  into  the  Bran- 
dy, about  a  Pound  of   Cherries  to  a  Quart ; 

this 


ill 


RECTOR*  125 


this  may  I'^iPif^  ^o^  about  a  Month  before 
it  is  fit  to  acink,  and  thca|the  Brandy  m.v/ 
be  Doiki^from  the  CherrSf  aa(4^thc  Chcr 


ries  pj|T(|ln  into  a  Veflel  ofAla^will  makA 
it  extremely  trong,  only  about  the  propo™ 
tion  of  a  Pound  of  Cherries  to  f  Gallon  of 
Ale  5  but  fome  will  put  frelh  Brandy  to  them, 
and  the  Cherries  will  turn  the  Brandy  of  a 
deep  Colour,  «|Bid  give  it  a  ftrongtafte  of  Ra- 
tafia s  others  will  diftill  thefe  Cherries  in  a  cold 
Still,  with  as  much  Water  as  will  cover  them, 
lraw*a£ii*l  Cordial  from  them. 


•%' 


"o  make  Vifney. 

TpHls  Vifney  is  made  of  pur^  Brandy,  and 
-*-  as  many  Morello  Chepfies  as  will  fill 
the  Bottles  or  Casks,  with  one  Ounce  of 
Loaf-Sugar  to  each  fullQiiarti  thefe  VefTels 
or  Bottles  muft  be  gently  flopp'd,  when  the 
Cherries  are  put  ..in,  and  ftand  in  a  cool  Cel- 
lar for  two  Months  before  the  Liquor  is  pour- 
ed from  them, ,  and  then  the  Liquor  may  be 
put  in  fmall  Bottles  for  ufe :  It  is  not  very 
ftrong,  but  very  plcafant.  The  Cherries,  when 
they  are  taken  out,  may  be  difliird,  and  will 
yield  a  fine  Spirit. 

In  fome  places,  where  there  are  Laurels  grow 
wild,  without  cutting  or  pruning,  I  mean,  the 
Lauro-CerafliSy  as  we  find  in  many  old  Gar- 
dens, that  Plant  is  apt  to  bear  Berries,  which 
in  reality  are  Cherries,  from  whence  it  has 
its  Name  j  thefe  Berries,  or  Cherries,  arc  ripe 
about  this  time,  and  make  a  fine  Cordial,  if 

we 


12(5  The  Country  uat^ 

we  infufc  them  in  Brandy   for^vo  or  three 
Months  with  ^ifkxXz  Sugary  thiSwilkhave  a 
,    J^lavour  ^  Abncot  Kernels,  an^|ffw  a  rich 
^,,Jm^^  Colour!  „   While  1  amfpeakil^  "this,  I 
cannot  hcif*  taking  notice  of  a  p^articu^r  Dram 
which  I  tailed  ac  a  curious  GentlemaiL^Houfe  at 
"Futney  mSuneyJV.  Curtis  Efqj  wh;\:h  he  made 
by  infufmg  of  the  Cornelian  Cherry  in  Bran- 
dy ?  that   Gentleman  is  the  only  one  who  I 
think  has  yet  tried  it,    and  to    my   Pala^  it 
feems   to   be  fo  like    Tockay^j^mz,  tha^t 
muft  be  a  very  good  judge  whoipn  dtiSjIper 
the  difference.     I  have  drankjlm  Wine  in 
pcrfedion,  and  this  preparatio^has  borii  the 
Colour,  T^^  and  Proportion  of  ftrenoth  e* 
qual  to  it  jfor-^^.e  great  ftrength  of  the  Bran- 
dy is  loft  in  the  Cornelian  Cherry,  and  tho'  the 
Cornelian  Cherry  is  of  a  bright  red  Colour, 
yet  this  Liquor  is  of  the  Colour  of    Tockay 


■** 


^ine. 


Thofe  who  live  near  nmdon-,  may,  about 
this  Scafon,  buy  Gccfe  out  of  the  Flocks,^ 
which  are  now  drove  up  to  that  City,  at  about 
five  and  twenty,  or  thirty  Shillings  a  fcore  ^ 
and  till  the  Seafon  we  are  to  turn  them  into 
the  Stubble,  we  may  feed  them  chiefly  with 
the  Offals  of  theGarde^,  Lettuce  efpecially, 
which  will  fatten  them,  if  you  have  enough: 
but  as  for  their  particular  Feed  for  fatting,  I 
ihall  fpeak  of  that  in  another  place. 

About  this  Seafon  Abricots  are  ripe,  and 
where   there    are    plenty    of  them,  we  may 

make 


m 

1 


JD  I  R  E  C  T  O  R^  127 

feafant  Wine  \szMi  them.     The  fol- 

c^pt  is  a  very  good  one. 

%  W        '  * 

'*     21?  w-^ke  Apricot  Wine,     From  Mrs.  J.  L. 

T^Oeyery  Quart  of  Water  put  a  Pound  and 
-*•  fiaij^f  Apricots,  that  are  not  over-ripe, 
let  tlfem  be  wiped  clean,  and  cut  in  pieces; 
boil  thefe  till  the  Liquor  is  flrong  of  the  Apri- 
cot Flavour;  then  ftrain  the   Liquor  thro'  a 

^ieve,  and  put  to  every  Quart  four  or  five  Oun- 
ces of  white  Sugar,  boil  it  again,  and  fcum  it 
as  it  rifes,  and  when  the  Scum  rifes  no  more, 
pour  it  into  an  Earthen  Pot  i  the  Day  follow- 
ing bottle  it,  putting  into  every  Bottle  a  lump 

*  of  Loaf-Sugar,  as  big  as  a  Nutmeo^,  This  will 
prefently  be  fit  for  drinking,  is  winery  pleafant 
Liquor ;  but  will  not  kee^ong.        ->  , 


\ 


AUGUST    ^ 

N  this  Monththerc  are  many  Delicacies 
about  a  Country  Seatj  all  kinds  of 
Pond-Fifh  are  good,  there  is  plenty  of 
Poultry  of  all  kinds,  wild  and  tame, 
except  the  Water-Fowl,  which  fhould  yet  re- 
main untouched.  TurkeyPoults^PheafantPoults^ 
Partridges,  and  fome  fort  of  Pigeons,  are  good  ; 
but  for  the  moft  part  the  Dove-cote  Pigeons  are 

di- 


%. 

128  The  Country  Lady's 

diftcmpcr'd,  and  are  now  full  of  Knc/t||in 
Skins,   and    unwholefome.     Th^    ^gs 
Fowls  likewife   at   this  Seafon,  fS  well 

|the  former  Month,  are  unhealthfiil.  Towards 
the  end,  Pork  comes  again  in  Scaii^i,  and 
young  Pigs  alfo  are  pretty  plentifi^  *'tis  a 
good  time  likewife  to  fave  youn^Tigs  to 
grow  up,  for  now  you  may  turn  them  with 
their  Dams  into  the  Stubbles,  and  foon  after 
into  the  Woods.  About  the  end  of  thisdl 
Month,  you  have  Rabbets  full  grown  in  com- 
mon Warrens,  and  young  wild  Ducks  i  and 
thofe  who  live  near  the  Sea,  have  plenty  of 
Oyftcrs,  and  in  great  perfeftion,  much  better, 
in  my  opinion,  than  in  the  Winter.  Hares 
are  alfo  no^^^od,  and  Buck  Venifon  is  ftill 
good.  Turnips^  Carres,  Cabbages,  Cauiyflow- 
crs.  Artichokes,  Melons,  Cucumbers,  and  fuch 
like,  are  in  prime  ,  Sallary  and  Endive,  Na- 
fturthim  Indictim  Flowers,   Cabbage  Lettice, 

.'  and  blanched  fvveet  Fennel  is  now  good  for 
Sallads.     Peas  and  Beans,  and  Kidney-beans, 

■  are  likewife  to  be  met  with,  fothata  Country 
Gentleman  and  Farmer  may  have  every  thing 
at  hbmc,  and  fet  out  a  Table  fit  for  a  Prince,, 
without  being  beholden  to  the  Markets  ; 
and  the  great  variety  of  Fruits  which  this  Sea- 
fon  produces,  renders  it  ftill  more  delightful 
and  profitable. 

Now  Elder-berries  are  ripe  and  fit  for  ma- 
king of  Wine,  as  well  the  white  as  the  red 
fort :  thefe  are  both  very  good,  if  they  are 
ric/htiy  m.annc;cd.     The  following  drinks  very 

much 


Director.  129 

much  like  the  Fr^^ir^  Wine  caird  Hermitage, 
and  is  full  as  ftrong. 

To  make  red  Elder  Wine, 

npAke  twenty  Pounds  of  Malaga  Raifms 
-*-     pick'dand    rubb'd  clean,  but  not  wafVd, 
fhrcd  them  fmall,  and  ftecp  them  in  five  Gal- 
lons of    Spring    Water,    putting  the  Water 
cold  to   them,  and  ftirring  them  every    day  ; 
then  pafs  the  Liquor  thro'  a  Hair  Sieve,  prcf- 
fing  the  Raifms  with  your  Hands,  and  have  in 
readinefs  fix  Pints  of  the  Juice  of  Elder-Berries 
that  have  been  firft  pick'd  from  the  Stalks,  and 
then   drawn  by  boiling  the  Berries  in  a  glaz'd 
Earthen  Pot,  fet  in  a  Pan  of  Water  over  the 
Fire.     Put  this  Juice  cold  into  the  Liquor,  fiir- 
ring  it  well  together,  and  then  tunning  it  in  a 
Veflel  that  will  juft  hold  it,   and  let  it  ftand  fix 
Weeks  or  two  Months  in  a  warm  place  j  then 
bottle  it,  and  it  will  keep  a  Year  if  the  Bot- 
tles are  w^ellftopp'd.  Note,  that  the  Eider-Ber- 
ries muft  be   full  ripe,  and  gathered  in  a  dry 
day  ;  and   when  you  have  tunn'd  your  Wine, 
let  the  place  where  you  fet  it  be  warm  and  dry, 
where  no  external  Air  is  admitted,  that  it  may 
ferment  or   work  duly,  for  that  is  a  material 
point.     If  it  be  othcrwife  difpofed,  fo  that  in 
ftands  in  a  place  which  is  fubjed  to  Heats  and 
Cold,  the  Ferment  will  flop  upon  Cold,  or  be 
too  violent  upon  Heats  j  burin  cold  Weather 
put  fome  Straw  about  it.     Sec  more  of  the 
working  of  Liquors  m  March j\x\  the  Article 
of  Brewing,  and  likewilc  take  care  that  your 

Boc- 


136  The  Country  Lady's 

Bottles  are  dry  when  you  bottle  your  Wine, 
and  that  you  have  good  Corks ;  take  care  like- 
wife  that  your  Wine  be  clear  before  you  bottle 
it,  or  it  will  be  good  for  nothing.  If  this 
Wine  be  rightly  managed  according  to  the 
above  Direftions,  it  will  be  fit  for  drinking  af- 
ter it  has  been  bottled  a  Month. 

In  the  making  of  white  Elder- Wine,  therd 
is  no  difference  if  you  make  it  with  Raifins  5 
but  it  is  much  the  beft,  in  my  Opinion,  if 
you  make  it  with  Sugar  after  the  following 
manner :  only  it  is  to  be  confider'd,  that 
white  Elder-Berries  are  yet  very  fcarce,  and 
there  muft  be  more  of  them  ufed  in  the  Sugat 
Wine  than  in  the  Raifm  Wine. 

To  make  white  Elder-Winey  or  red  Elder- 
JVinCy  with  Sugar. 

/'^Ather  the  Elder-Berries  ripe  and  dry,  pick 
^^  them,  bruife  them  with  your  Hands,  and 
ftrain  themj  then  fet  the  Liquor  by  in  glaz'd  ear- 
then Veffels  for  twelve  hours  to  fettle,  then  put 
to  every  pint  of  Juice  a  pint  andhalf  of  Water, 
and  to  every  Gallon  of  this  Liquor  put  three 
Pounds  of  Lisbon  Sugar  :  fct  this  in  a  Kettle 
over  the  Fire,  and  when  it  is  ready  to  boil, 
clarify  it  with  the  Whites  of  four  or  five  Eggs  i 
let  it  boil  an  hour,  and  when  itisalmoil 
cold,  work  it  with  fomeftrongAle-Yeaft,  and 
then  tun  it,  filling  up  the  VefTel  from  time  to 
time  with  the  fame  Liquor  faved  on  purpofc, 
as  it  finks   by  working.     In   a  Month's  time, 

if 


Director.  131 

if  the  Veffel  holds  about  eight  Gallons,  it  will 
be  fine  and  fit  to  bottle,  and  after  bottling, 
will  be  fit  to  drink  in  two  Months  :  but  re- 
niember,  that  all  Liquors  muft  be  fine  before 
they  are  bottled,  or  clfethey  will  grow  fliarp 
and  ferment  in  the  Bottles,  and  never  be  good 
for  any  thing. 

N.  B.  Add  to  every  Gallon  of  this  Liquor  a 
Pint  of  ftrong  Mountain  Wine,  but  not  fuch 
as  has  the  Borachio  or  Ho2;skin  flavour.  This 
Wine  will  be  very  ftrong  and  pieafant,  and 
will  keep  feveral  Years. 

We  muft  prepare  our  Red  Elder- Wine  in  the 
fame  manner  that  we  make  with  Su2;ar,  and  if 
our  Veflel  hold  about  eight  or  ten  Gallons,  it 
will  be  fit  for  Bottling  in  about  a  Month  ;  but 
if  the  Veflel  be  larger,  it  muft  ftand  longer  in 
proportion,  three  or  four  Months  at  leaft  for  a 
Ho2;fliead. 

This  Month  Barberries  are  ripe  and  fit  for 
pickling  3  they  make  a  pretty  Garnifli,  and  arc 
prepared  as  follows. 

Topckle  Barberries^  or  TipperageSy  as  call'd 
in  fome  places, 

/^^  Ather  your  Barberries  in  dry  Weather,  and 
^^  lay  them  in  their  Bunches  into  an  earthen 
glazed  Pot,  then  boil  a  quantity  of  Water 
made  ftrong  with  Salt,  fcumming  it  as  it  rifcs, 
and  let  it  ftand  to  be  quite  cold  $  then  pour  it 
upon  the  Barberries,  fo  as  to  cover  them 
an  Inch,  and  cover  it  clofe.  Some  ufe 
half  Vinegar  and  half  Water  for  this  Pickle, 

but 


1 3  2  Ths  Country  Lady's 

but  it  is  at  every  one*s  pleafurc,  I  think  one  is 

as  t>ood  as  the  other. 

I—' 

Partridges  arc  now  in  Seafon,  and  are  pre- 
pared after  fcveral  manners  ,  fonae  of  the  prin- 
cipal are  the  following. 

Boil'd   ^Partridgjcs  ijoith  fteiSifd  Sallarjfy  from 
Lady  W' — -. 

^T'HE  Partridges  being  cleaned  and  truflcd, 
-^-  boil  them  tender,  and  make  the  follow- 
ing Sauce  for  them.  Take  half  a  fcore  large 
vSaJlaryPiants  that  are  well  whiten'd  or  blanched, 
boil  them  firft  in  Water  and  Salt,  and  then 
ftcw  them  tender  with  Gravey,  Salt,  fome  Pep- 
per, and  a  Spoonful  or  two  of  White  wine.; 
znd  when  they  are  enough,  thicken  and  brown 
the  Sauce  they  arc  ftew'd  in  with  burnt  Butter, 
lav  vour  Sallarv  at  the  bottom  of  the  Difh,  and 
your  Partridges  upon  that,  then  pour  your 
Sauce  over  all,  and  garnilh  with  Lemmon  or 
Orange  fiic'd.  This  is  the  method  of  ftewins; 
Sallarv,  which  is  an  asireeable  Plate  of  itfelf. 

From  the  fame  Lady  I  had  the  following 
Dircdions  for  roaftcd  Partridges :  Partridges 
which  are  defigncd  for  roafting  may  be  larded 
with  fine  Bacon  Fat  on  the  Bread,  or  roafted 
without  lardingi  but  in  aDifn  of  thcfe  Fowls, 
there  fhould  be  fome  of  one  and  fomeof  the 
other.  The  Sauce  for  them  fliould  be  ot  two 
forts,  one  of  Gravey  in  the  Difli  with  them,. 
and  the  other  of  Bread  in  Saucers  on  the  fides 
of  the  Difhc  The  Gravey  is  made  of  Beef,  aa 
Onion,  a  Bunch  of  fweet  Herbs,  fome   Salt 

3  and 


I)  I  R  E  C  T  O  R.  133 

and  Pepper,  ftew'd  half  an  hour  together,  in 
a  little  more  Water  than  will  cover  them,  then 
ftrain  off  the  Liquor  into  the  Difh. 

The  Pap-Sauce,  or  Bread-Sauce,  is  made  of 
grated  Crumb  of  Bread,  boiled  with  as  much 
Water  as  will  cover  it,  a  little  Butter,  ah  O" 
nion,  and  fonrie  whole  Pepper  5  this  muft  be 
kept  ftirring  often,  and  when  it  is  very  thick, 
v/ithdraw  the  Onion,  and  ferve  it  in  a  Saucer 
with  your  Partridges*  Thefe  Sauces  may  like- 
wife  be  ferved  with  Pheafarits,  or  Quails.  Thefc 
may  alfo  be  ftew'd,  farced,  baked,  or  put  in 
Soups,  or  ufed  in  FricalTees.  Thus  far  the 
Lady. 

Hares  begin  new  to  be  in  Seafon,  and  arc 
well  drcfs'd  by  the  following  Receipt,  which 
I  purchaf^^d  a  few  Years  ago,  at  a  noted  Tavern 
in  London. 

A  Hate  and  its  Sauces, 

T  F  you  kill  a  Hare  by  Courfing,  you  may 
•■'  keep  it  if  the  Weather  be  cool  three  days 
before  you  roaft  it  5  or  if  it  has  been  run  hard 
by  the  Hounds,  then  it  will  not  keep  fo  long* 
When  the  Skin  is  taken  off,  it  is  the  fafliion 
to  leave  the  Ears  on,  but  that  is  at  pleafure  i 
then  trufs  it  for  Roafting,  and  take  the  Liver 
and  boil  it,  and  mince  it  very  fmall  j  add  to  this 
grated  Bread,  a  little  All-Spice,  but  fine,  feme 
bu^ter'd  Eggs,  a  little  dry'dfweet  Marjoram, wath 
a  Scaibniiigof  Pepper  and  Sak  at  difcrction,aad 
fome  Parfley  fhred  fmall  :  Mix  this  well  toge- 
ther, and  add  the  Yolk  of  an  Egg  to  it  to  bind 

K  "  it  5 


134  ^^^  Country  Ladfs 

it  5  then  fill  the  Body  of  the  Hare  moderately 
with  this  Farce,  and  few  up  the  Belly.     When 
the  Hare  is  firft  laid  down  to  the  fire,  put  about 
thrcV  pints  of  Water  with  an  Onion,  fomc  Salt 
and  \isholePepper,  in  the  Dripping-pan,  and  bade 
the  nVre  with  this  till  it  is  near  roafted  enough, 
and  bade  it  with  apiece  of  fat  burning  Bacon,  or 
in  the  place  of  that,  common  Butter  5  but  the 
Bacon  is  beft,  if  the  Perfon  knows  how  to  ufe  ir. 
When  it  is  enough,   pour  the  following  Sauce 
into  the  Difh  with  it :  Take  the  Liquor,  with 
the  Onion  and  Pepper  in  the  Dripping-pan,  out 
before  you  bafte  the  Hare  with  Butter  or  Bacon, 
and  boil  it  with  a  glafs  of  Claret  i  it  will  be 
Very  rich  when  it  comes  to  be  mixt  with  the 
Farce  out  of  the  Belly  of  the  Hare,  and  is  little 
trouble.     You  may  thicken  this  with  a  little 
Butter  and  Flower,  if  you  plcafe. 

The  following  is  alfo  a  very  good  one :  Take 

a  pound  of  lean  Beef,    boil  it  in  about  three 

pints  of  Water  wuth  an  Onion,  a  Bunch  of 

iweet  Herbs,  fome  AU-fpice,  Pepper  and  Salt, 

till  the  Beef  is  boil'd  half  enough  5  then  cut  the 

Beef  in  feveral  places  to  let  out  the  Gravey,  and 

continue  to  boil  all-^ofe  till  the  Liquor  has 

loft  a  third  part  i   then  add  a  little  Claret  to  ir, 

and  ftrain  the  Liquot  through  a  Sieve,  pouring 

the  Gravey  hot  into  the  Di(h  before  you  put 

the  Hare  in  it  5  and  whenyou  lay  in  the  Hare,cut 

away  the  part  that  was  few'd  up,  or  take  away 

the  thread  that  few'd  it.    Some  chufe  to  skewer 

up  the  Belly  of  the  Hare,   rather  than  few  it. 

You 


Director.  135 

You  may  ferve  this  with  Lemmon  fliced,  and 
in  a  plate  by  it  have  the  following  Sauce. 

Sweet  Venifon  Sauce. 

np  A  K  E  half  a  pint  of  Claret,  a  little  Stick 
•*-  of  Cinnamon,  and  boil  them  together 
till  the  Flavour  of  the  Cinnamon  is  in  the  Cla- 
ret i  then  fweetcn  it  to  your  mind  with  dou- 
ble-refined Loaf-fugar.     Or  elfe. 

Grate  fome  Crumb  of  Bread,  and  put  to  it 
as  much  Claret  as  will  make  it  like  thin  Pap  j 
add  to  this  a  fmall  piece  of  Cinnamon,  and 
boil  it  well,  then  fweeten  it  with  double-re- 
fined Loaf  fugar  grated  fmall.  Thefe  are  the 
fweet  Sauces  ufed  for  Hare,  and  all  other  Veni- 
fon. 

To  drefs  a  Hare  with  White  or  Brown  Saucel 
from  the  late  curious  Mr.  Harrifon  of  Hen- 
ley upon  Thames. 

I^UT  your  Hare  in  four  or  eight  pieceSj 
^^-^  and  flit  the  Head  5  fry  it  a  little  in  Hog's 
Lard,  and  then  put  it  to  ftew  in  an  earthen 
glazedVeffel,  with  Gravey,  half  a  pint  of  White- 
wine,  Pepper,  Nutmeg,  Salt,  a  bunch  of  fweet 
Herbs,  and  a  flice  or  two  of  Lemmon-Peel  j 
keep  this  clofe  covered,  and  ftew  it  gently 
till  'tis  tender,  then  ftrain  off  the  Sauce,  and 
brown  it  with  fry'd  Flower,  or  burnt  Butter : 
pour  the  Sauce  hot  over  the  Hare,  and  ferve  it 
with  a  Garnifh  of  Lemmon  in  Slices  5  but  if  you 
would  have  your  Sauce  of  brighter  Colour,  in- 
ftead  of  the  burnt  Butter,  or  fry'd  Flower,  thic- 

K  2.  kca 


qp 


116  The  Country  Ladfs 

ken  it  with  the  Yolks  of  three  or  four  Eggs.^ 
This  is  an  excellent  way  of  drefling  a  Hare^ 
and  more  generally  admired  than  any  other. 

This  being  the  Seafon  for  taking  Honey, 
I  fliall  here  fet  down  the  Method  of  making  of 
Mead,  after  two  ways,  which  are  both  extra- 
grdinary. 

To  make  Mead,  from  Lady  G. 

A  K  E  eight  Gallons  of  Water,  and  as 
much  Honey  as  will  make  it  bear  an  Egg  > 
add  to  this  the  Rind  of  fix  Lemmons,  and  boil 
it  well,  fcumming  it  carefully  as  it  rifes.  When 
'tis  off  the  Fire,  put  to  it  the  Juice  of  the  fix 
Lemmons,  and  pour  it  into  a  cleanTub,  or  open 
earthen  Veflel,  if  you  have  one  large  enough, 
to  work  three  Days  j  then  fcum  it  well,  and 
pour  off  the  clear  Into  the  Cask,  and  let  It 
ftand  open  till  it  has  done  making  a  hiffing 
Noife  5  after  which,  flop  it  up  clofe,  and  in 
three  Months  time  it  will  be  fine,  and  fit  for 
bottlingc 

To  make  Hydromety  or  Mead, 

TAKE  eight  Gallons  of  Water,  and  as 
much  Honey  as  will  make  theWater  bear 
an  Egg  5  put  to  this  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
Cloves  tied  in  three  or  four  pieces  of  Muflin 
or  Linnen  Cloth,  and  fet  it  to  boil  till  the  Scum 
has  done  rifmg,  fcumming  it  as  it  riles  5  then 
take  it  off  the  Fire,  and  take  out  the  Cloves, 
which  may  be  wafh'd  and  dry^d  for  other  Ufes, 
and  pour  your  Mead  into  an  open  Tub  to  fer- 
ment 


Director.  137 

ment  for  about  three  days,  till  the  Violence 
of  the  Working  is  over;  after  which,  fcumit 
very  well,   and  pour  the  clear  into  a  VclTel, 
leaving  the  Bung  open  till  it  has  done  hilling, 
which  you  may  know  by  holding  your  Ear 
clofe  to  it,  for  at  a  diftance  you  can  hardly 
difcover  it.     When  this  hiiling  is  over,  flop  it 
clofe,  and  let  it  (land  three  Months  till  it  is 
fine,  before  you  bottle  it  5  remember  in  bot.- 
tlingthis,  as  well  as  all  other  Liquors,  tnatthe 
Bottles  muft  be  clean,  and  perfedly  dry,  and 
that  every  Bottle  be  well  cork'd.     This  will 
keep  good  feveral  Years. 

Befides  this  way  of  making  Mead,  there  is 
another  which  1  have  approved  to  be  very 
good,  which,  in  all  particulars,  except  theWa- 
ter,  is  the  fame  with  thisj  and  inftead  of  the 
Water,  put  the  like  Quantity  of  fmall  Ale- 
Wort,  b^ew'd  with  pale  Malt :  but  this  will  re- 
quire iefs  Honey  than  the  former,  and  will  re- 
quire more  time  in  the  Veffel  before  it  is  fine 
and  fit  to  bottle  j  but  it  will  laft  many  Years 
good,  and  will  drink  like  Cyprtis  Wine  when 
it  is  a  Year  old.  In  this  Liquor,  take  particular 
care  that  your  Cloves  are  frefhand  found,  for 
elfe  you  muft  add  a  Quantity  in  proportion, 

i\Z'.5.WemaymakethefeMeadsintheSpring 
of  the  Year,  as  well  as  at  this  Seafon  5  only  the 
advantage  of  making  it  now,  is,  that  you  have 
an  opportunity  of  wafhing  the  Honey-Combs 
after  the  Honey  is  run  off,  and  thereby  will 
fave  Expence  in  Honey. 

K  3  The 


1 3  S  The  Country  Ladfs 

The  Potatoe  now  begins  to  be  gathered,  and 
is  a  very  ufcful  Root,  being  either  boii'd  or 
roafted  in  hot  Embers ;  and  after  it  is  boiled, 
to  be  broiled,  or  after  boiling  it  tender>  and 
beaten  in  a  Mortar,  it  is  ufed  to  thicken  Sauces, 
and  for  makins;  of  rich  Puddings,  as  I  am  in- 
form'd  by  a  skilful  Perfon  in  this  way. 

The  Roots  of  red  Beets  now  begin  to  come 
in  feafon,  andare  very  good  boiled,  and  diced, 
to  be  put  in  a  Pickle  of  Vinegar  only:  thus 
you  may  keep  them  to  garnifh  Sallads  of  fmall 
Herbs,  and  in  fomc  Intervals  put  Horfe-Ra- 
difh  fcrapcd.  Thefe  Roots  will  hold  all  the 
Winter.  The  Root  of  the  red  Beet  makes  an 
excellent  Difh,  prepared  after  the  following 
jnanner,  which  I  got  abroad. 

To  fry  the  Roots  of  Red  Beets. 

VST  ASH  your  Beet-Roots,  and  lay  them  in 
^^  an  earthen  eiazed  Pan,  bake  them  in  an 
Oven,  and  then  peel  the  Skin  off  them:  after 
this  is  done,  flic  them  from  the  Top  to  the 
Tail,  and  cut  them  in  the  fhape  of  the  Fifh 
cairdaSole,  about  the  thicknefs  of  the  third 
part  of  an  Inch  ;  dip  thefe  in  a  thick  Batter, 
made  of  White-Wine,  fine  Flower,  fweet 
Cream,  the  Whites  and  Yolks  of  Eggs,  rather 
more  Yolks  than  Whites,  fome  Pepper,  Salt, 
and  Cloves  beaten  fine,  all  wellmix'd.  As  you 
dip  every  piece  of  Beet-Root  in  this  Batter,  ftrew 
them  over  thick  with  fine  Flower  mix'd  with 
grated  Bread,  andParfley  fhred  fmalJ,  and  then 
fry  them  in  Lard  :  when  they  arq  enough,  let 

them 


Director.  139 

them  dry,  and  fervc  them  with  a  Garnifh  of 
Lemmon.  Thefe  like  wife  may  be  put  about 
ftew'd  Carps,  Tench,  or  roafted  Jacks,  by  way 
of  Garnifh,  with  fcraped  Horfe-Radifh,  and 
pickkd  Barberries. 

In  the  Heats  of  this  Month,  the  following 
Jelly  is  ufed  by  a  curious  Gentleman  abroad, 
who  gave  me  the  Receipt  of  it,  under  the 
Name  of  The  Jelly  of  Health :  It  is  of  great 
ufe  to  weak  People,  and  extremely  pleafant. 

To  make  the  Jelly  of  Health. 

TAKE  feme  Calves  Feet,  according  to  the 
Jelly  you  defign  to  make,  and  alfo  get  a 
Cock  of  the  common  Poultry  kind  5   wafh 
thefe  well,  and  put  them  in  a  Kettle  to  boil, 
with  a  proportionable  Quantity  of  Water,  par- 
ticularly taking  off  the  Scum  as  itrifes.  When 
thefe  Meats  are  boiled  almoft  to  pieces,  it  is  a 
fign  that  your  Jelly  is  boiled  enough  i  but  take 
care  that  it  is  not  too  ftiff,    which  you  may 
try  by  taking  a  little  out  with  a  Spoon,  and 
then  fetting  it   to  cool.     Then  pour  the  Li- 
quor thro'  a  Sieve  into  a  Stew-pan,    and  take 
off  all  the  Fat  5  after  which,  put  to  the  Liquor 
a  proportionable  Quantity  of  double-refined 
Loaf-Sugar,  a  fmall  Stick  or  two  of  Cinnamon, 
three  or  four  Cloves,  and  the  Rinds  of  two  or 
three  Lemmons  :  boil  all  thefe  together  gently 
for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  till  it  is  well- 
tafted,  and  then  beat  up  the  Whites  of  four 
or  five  Eggs,  with  the  Juice  of  the  fix  Lem- 
mons, and  pour  them  into  the  Jelly,  ftirring 

K  4  the 


i4<^  ^^^  Country  Ladfs 

the  whole  a  little  time  over  the  Fire  ;  then  let 
this  Mixture  (land  ftill  upon  the  Fire  till  it 
xiks  ready  to  boil  over  i  at  which  time,  you 
muft  take  it  off,  and  pour  it  into  the  Jelly^ 
Bag,  and  as  it  runs  thro'  into  a  Pan  fet  to  re- 
ceive it,  pour  it  again  into  the  Jelly-Bag  for 
three  or  tour  times  till  it  comes  clear,  and 
then  let  it  drop  into  Jelly-Glafles  Sometimes, 
the  above  Gentleman  told  me,  he  has  put  a 
little  White- Wine  into  the  Liquor  while  the 
Meats  were  boiling  in  it,  which  he  thinks 
helps  ite 


SEPTEMBER. 


S  this  Month  produces  great  num- 
bers of  Muflirooms  in  the  Fields, 
it  is  now  chiefly  that  we  ought  to 
provide  ourfelves  with  them  for 
making  of  Ketchup,  and  Mufhroom  Gravey  : 
And  it  is  alfo  a  proper  Seafon  for  pickling  them. 
Indeed,  where  we  have  Mufhroom- Beds,  we 
may  do  thefe  Works  at  any  time  of  theYear.  It 
is  to  be  remarked,  that  the  beft  Mufhrooms  have 
their  Gills  of  a  Flefh  Colour,  even  while  the 
Mufhrooms  are  in  button  ;  and  as  they  tend  to 
fpread  in  their  Head,  or  to  open  their  Cap, 
the  Gills  turn  redder,  till  at  length,  when  their 

Heads 


Director.  141 

Heads  are  fully  fpreadopen,  they  will  become 
quite  blacL  Thefe  large-flap  Mufhrooms  are 
ftill  good  for  ftewing  or  broiling,  fo  long  as 
they  have  no  Worms  in  them,  and  the  Gills 
are  then  in  the  beft  ftate  for  making  Ketchup, 
or  Mufhroom-Gravcy  s  altho'  the  red  Gills  will 
do,  but  the  fmaller  Buttons  are  what  moft 
People  covet  for  Pickling. 

In  the  gathering  of  Mufhrooms,  we  are  fure 
to  meet  with  fome  of  all  fizes  5  the  very  fmall 
for  pickling,  the  large  Buttons  for  ftewing  or 
making  Mulhroom-Loaves,  and  Mufhroom- 
Gravey,  and  the  large  Flaps  for  broiling  or 
making  of  Ragous,  or  ftewing,  and  Ketchup  : 
therefore  to  follow  the  common  way,  we 
fhouldmake  two  or  three  Parcels  of  them. 

The  cleaning  of  Mufhrooms,  or  preparing 
them  for  any  of  the  above  Ufes,  will  aiford 
us  nothins:  but  what  is  ufefulj  the  Parings 
fhould  be  faved  by  themfelves,  to  be  wafh'd, 
towards  the  making  of  what  is  called  Mufh- 
room-Gravey  3  the  Gills  muft  be  faved  by  them- 
felves  for  making  either  Ketchup,  or  Mufh- 
room-Gravey  3  and  the  Parts  towards  the  Roots, 
and  the  Roots  themfelves,  muft  be  kept  to  dry 
in  the  Sun,  or  a  warm  Room,  to  raife  Mufh^ 
rooms  from,  efpecially  if  they  are  of  a  large 
good  fort  that  has  red  Gills,  forthofe  which 
have  white  Gills,  prove  oftentimes  unwhole- 
fome,  and  are  apt  to  turn  yellow  when  they 
are  cut  and  put  in  Water :  however,  fome 
People  eat  of  this  fort,  and  I  have  eaten  of 
fuch  a  fort  myfelf  $  but  as  there  are  fome  with 

white 


^42"  The  Country  Lad/s 

white  Gills  that  are  deadly,  it  is  dangerous 
for  unskilful  Pcrfons  to  meddle  with  any  of 
that  fort :  and  therefore  I  thought  it  conve- 
nient when  I  wzs'm  France^  to  learn  the  Me- 
thod of  raifing  them  in  Beds,  that  we  mi^ht 
be  fure  of  our  fort,  and  have  them  all  "the 
Year  about:  The  Method  of  doing  which,  is 
in  my  Appendix  to  my  New  Improvements 
of  Planting  and  Gardening,  printed  for 
Mr.  MearSy  at  Temple- Bar. 

The  following  Receipts  for  making  of 
Mufhroom-Ketchup,  and  Mufhroom-Gravey, 
I  had  from  a  Gentleman  named  Garneau, 
whom  I  met  at  BruffelSy  and  by  Experience 
find  them  to  be  very  good. 

To  make  Mufbroom  Ketchup. 

T^AKE  the  Gills  of  large  Mulhrooms,  fuch 
■^  as  are  fpread  quite  open,  put  them  into 
aSkelletof  Bell-Metal,  or  a  Veffel  of  Earthen- 
Ware  glazed,  and  fet  them  over  a  gentle  Fire 
till  they  begin  to  change  into  Water  j  and  then 
frequently  ftirring  them  till  there  is  as  much 
Liquor  come  out  of  them  as  can  be  cxpeded, 
prcfiing  them  often  with  a  Spoon  againft  the 
fide  of  the  Vcflel  $  then  drain  off  the  Liquor, 
and  put  to  every  Quart  of  it  about  eighty 
Gloves,  if  they  are  frefh  and  good,  or  half  as 
many  more,  if  they  are  dry,  or  have  been  kept 
a  long  time,  and  about  a  Drachm  of  Mace  : 
add  to  this  about  a  Pint  of  ftrong  red  Torf 
Wine  that  has  not  been  adulterated,  and  boil 
them  all  together  till  you  judge  that  every  Quart 
z  has 


Director.  143 

has  loft  about  a  fourth  Part  or  half  a  Pint  5  then 
pals  it  thro'  a  Sieve,  and  let  it  ftand  to  cool, 
and  when  it  is  quite  cold,  bottle  it  up  in  dry 
Bottles  of  Pints  or  Half-Pints,  and  cork  them 
clofe,  for  it  is  the  furcft  way  to  keep  thcfe  kind 
of  Liquors  in  fuch  fmall  quantities  as  may  be 
ufed  quickly,  when  they  come  to  be  expofed 
to  the  Air,  for  fear  of  growing  mouldy  :  but  I 
have  had  a  Bottle  of  this  fort  of  Ketchup y 
that  has  been  op  end  and  fet  by  for  above  a 
Tear,  that  has  not  received  the  leaft  Damage  5 
and  fome  Acquaintance  of  mine  have  made  of 
the  fame  fort,  and  have  kept  it  inQuart-Bot- 
les  to  ufe  as  occafion  required,  and  have  kept 
it  good  much  longer  than  I  have  done.     A  lit- 
tle of  it  is  very  rich  in  any  Sauce,   and  efpe- 
cially  when  Gravey   is    wanting :    Therefore 
it  may  be  of  fervice  to  Travellers,  who  too 
frequently  meet  with  good   Fi(h,  and    other 
Meats,  in  Britain,  as   well  as  in  feveral  other 
parts  of  Europe,   that  are  fpoiled  in  the  dref- 
iing  ;  but  it  muft  be   confider'd,  that  there  is 
no  Salt  in  this,   fo  that   whenever  it  is  ufed, 
Salt,  Anchovies,   or  other  fuch  like  relifhing 
things,  niay  be  ufed  with  it,  if  they  are  agree- 
able to  the  Palate,  and  fo  likewife  with  the 
Mufnroom  Gravey  in  the  following  Receipt, 

Of  Mufliroom  Gravey. 

TT7H E N  you  clean  your  Mufhrooms,  favc 

^'     the  Parings,  and  wafh  them  well  from 

the  Dirt,  and  then  put  to  them  the  Gills  that 

have  been  fcraped  from  the  large  Buttons,  and 

with 


144  The  Country  Ladfs 

with  a  vei-y  little  Water  put  them  in  a  Sauce- 
pan, and  ftir  them  frequently   till    you  have 
got  all  the  Juice  from  them  \    then  ftrain  the 
Liquor  from  them,  and  fet  it  \pj  to  cool,  or 
clfe    till  you  have  ftew'd  the  Muflirooms  that 
they  were   taken  from,  and  then  add  the  Li- 
quor of  the  ftew'd  Mufhrooms  to  the  aforefaid 
Liquor,  and  boil  them  both  together,  with  a- 
bout  80  Cloves,  about  a  Drachm  of  Mace,  and 
two  Drachms  of  whole  Pepper  to  each  Quart 
of  Liquor,    which  will  be  tit  to  takeoff  the 
Fire  when  it  has  loft  about  a  third    part  by 
boilings  then  pafs  it  thro' a  dry  '^\t^(^^  into  a 
dry   earthen    Pan,  and   let  it  ftand  till  it  be 
quire    cold  before  you   bottle    it,    obferving 
then  that    the  Bottles  be  very  dry,  for  if  they 
happen  to  be  wet,  it  will  foon  turn  mouldy. 
When    the  Bottles  are  fiird,   cork  them  well 
with  found  new  Corks,    and  tye  a  piece  of 
Bladder,  that  has  been  foftened  in  warm  Wa- 
ter, over  every  Cork  as  tight  as  pofliblc,  and 
{<iX.  the  Bottles  \n  a  dry  Place  3  with  this  ma- 
nagement it  will  keep  a  long  time. 

What  I  learned  elfe  from  the  above  men- 
tion'd  Gentleman,  concerning  the  preparing 
of  Mufnrooms  for  eating,  was,  that  they  fliould 
be  always  ufed  when  they  are  frefli  gathered, 
and  then  only  fuch  as  are  without  Worms, 
which  may  be  eafily  perceived  by  cutting  their 
Stems  crofs-wife  J  and  alfo  that  as  foon  as  the 
Peel  is  pared  off,  and  the  Gills,  let  the  large 
Mufhrooms  be  cut  into  pieces,  of  the  bignefs 
of  Nutmegs^  and  thrown  into  Water,  as  well 

Che 


I 


y 


Director^  145 

the  Steins  as  the  G^s,  for  they  are  both 
good ;  then  wafli  them  well,  and  ftew  them 
in  a  Sauce-pan,  without  putting  any  Liquor 
to  them,  or  Spice,  or  Salt,  till  they  have  dif- 
charged  a  great  deal  of  their  own  Liquor,  and 
begin  to  grow  tender,  you  will  then  find 
them  fhrink  into  a  very  narrow  compafs,  and 
muft  have  the  greateft  part  of  the  Liquor 
poured  from  them,  with  which  you  may  make 
the  Mufhroom-Gravey  abovementiorLd.  The 
Muflirooms  being  thus  prepared,  put  to  them 
a  Seafoning  of  Pepper,  Salt,  Mace,  and  fuch 
other  Ingredients  as  will  not  rob  the  Mufli- 
rooms too  much  of  their  own  natural  Flavour, 
andftir  them  frequently  till  they  are  enough  5 
then  put  a  little  White-wine  and  Butter  to 
them,  and  they  will  make  an  excellent  good 
Diffi  :  or  elfe  they  may  be  made  brown  with 
fome  burned  Butter,  or  be  made  into  a  Ra- 
gout. As  for  the  broiling  of  the  Caps  of 
the  largs  Muflirooms,  the  fame  Perfon's 
Rece^ipt  duefts  to  rub  the  Caps  with  But- 
ter on  both  fides,  and  ftrew  Pepper  and 
Salt  on  them,  and  broil  them  till  they  are 
quite  hot  through,  turning  them  two  or  three 
times  on  the  Fire,  they  will  make  their  own 
Sauce  when  they  come  to  be  cut  Another 
way  which  he  direds,  is  to  make  a  pretty 
thick  Batter  of  Flower,  Water,  or  Milk  and 
Eggs  beaten  together  with  fome  Salt  and  Pep- 
per, to  dip  them  in,  and  then  fry  them  like 
Tripe  j  and  for  their  Sauce,  he  recomme;nds 
Butter^  a  little  White- wine,  and  fome  of  the 

I  Mufli- 


I4<5  The  Country  Lad/s 

Mufhroom-Gravey,  to  be  well  mix'd  toge- 
ther. 

Some  of  my  Acquaintance,  who  have  try*d 
thcfe  Diredions,  approve  of  them  ;  and,  for 
iriy  own  part,  I  think  them  as  agreeable  as 
any  that  I  have  eaten  :  but  as  the  Tafte  is 
not  alike  in  every  one,  I  fhall  add  an  Ob- 
fervation  or  two  more  of  Monfieur  Garneatis, 
concerning  the  Mufhroom,  which  I  think  not 
unworthy  our  notice.  The  Mufhroom,  fays 
that  Gentleman,  is  not  only  a  good  Ground- 
work for  all  high  Sauces,  but  itfclf  a  good 
Meat  to  be  drefs'd  after  any  manner,  either 
to  compofe  a  white  or  brown  Fricaffee,  or 
fry'd  or  broil'd,  or  baked  in  Pyes  with  com- 
mon Seafoning,  and  (lands  in  the  room  of 
Flefh  better  than  any  thing  that  has  yet  been 
found  out. 

This  Month  is  likcwife  a  good  time,  if 
it  is  not  over-wet,  to  gather  Mufhroooms  for 
drying;  but  they  fhould  chiefly  be  luch  as 
are  newly  opcn'd  in  their  Caps,  before  the 
Gills  turn  black.  For  this  end,  take  off  the 
Gills  very  clean,  ;^nd  wipe  the  Caps  with  wet 
Flannel,  and  as  foon  as  they  are  a  little  dry, 
run  a  String  through  them,  and  hang  them  at 
fome  diftance  from  the  Fire,  turning  them  now 
and  then  till  they  are  dry  enough  to  be  reduced 
to  Powder.  When  they  are  thus  dry'd,  keep 
them  in  dry  Bottles  with  wide  Necks,  clofe 
ftopp'd,  till  you  have  occafion  to  ufe  them  in 
Sauces.  Keep  this  in  a  dry  place.  Some 
dry  them  in  Ovens  after  the  Bread  is  drawn, 

but 


Director,  147 

vcr 
for  them. 


but  an  Oven  in  its  full  heat  will  be  too  ftrong 


To  pickle  Mufbrooms  White. 

TAke  a  Quart  of  fmall  Buttons  of  Mufh- 
rooms,    cut  off  their   Roots,   and  wa(h 
them  well  with  a  Flannel  dipt  in  Water,  and 
then  fling  them  into  clean  Water,  to  remain 
there  about  two  hours.     In  the  next  place,  get 
ready  Tome  frefh  Water  in  a  well-tinn'd  Vef- 
fcl,  or  glaz'd  Veflel,  to  which  put  your  Mufli- 
rooms,  and  let  them  boil  a  little  to  foften  5 
which  being  done,  take  out  your  Mufhrooms, 
and  prefently  put  them  into  cold  Water,  and 
let  them  remain  there  till  they  are  quite  cold  j 
after  this,  free  them  from  the  Water,  and  dry 
them  well  in  a  linnen  Cloth,  then  put  them 
cither   into  a    wide-neck'd    Bottle,   or  glaz'd 
Earthen- VefTel,  difpofing    here  and   there   a- 
mong   them  three   or  four  Bay-leaves   to  a 
Quart,  two  Nutmegs  cut  in  quarters,  about  a 
quarter  of  an  Ounce  of  Mace,  and  boil  as  much 
White- Wine   and  Vinegar,    in  equal  quanti- 
ties, as  will  ferve  to  cover   the  Mufhrooms. 
This   Pickle   muft    be   put    to   them    cold, 
and    the     Bottle,    or    Earthen-VelTel,    clofe 
ftopt  and    ty'd    down    with  a  wet   Bladder. 
The    reafon   why  the    Spice  (hould    not  be 
boiled  with  the  Pickle,  is,  becaufe  the  Mufli- 
rooms  would  change  black  by  means  of  the 
boird  Spices  ;  and  if  this  plain  Pickle  was  to 
be  pour'd  upon  the  Mufhrooms  hot,  it  would 
immediately  draw  a  Colour  from  the  Spices, 

which 


i 


1 4  S  The  Country  Ladfs 

which  would  darken  the  Colour  of  the  Muffi-- 
roomj, :  therefore  to  fill  up  the  glaffcs  in  the 
manner  here  related,  is  the  beft  way  to  have 
your  Mufhrooms  look  clean  and  white. 

This  Month  is  the  proper  time  to  pickle  ^ 
Onions,  which   make  an  agreeable  Pickle  if 
they  are  prepared  after  the  following  manner. 

To  pickle  Onions y  from  Mrs.  A.  W. 

\Jif  HEN  your  Onions  are  dry  enough  to  be 
^^  laid  up  in  the  Houfe,  take  the  fmalleft 
of  them,  fuch  as  are  about  the  bigneis  of  a 
fmall  Walnut,  and  of  that  fort  which  we 
call  the  Spanijh  Onion,  for  thefe  are  not  fo 
ilrong  flavoured  as  the  Strasburgh  Onions  j^ 
take  off  only  the  outward  dry  Coat,  and  boil 
them  in  one  Water  without  flhifting,  till  they 
begin  to  grow  tender  j  then  take  them  off  the 
Fire,  lay  them  in  a  Sieve  or  CiiUendar  to  drain 
and  cool  5  and  as  foon  as  they  are  quite  cold, 
takeoff  two  other  Coats  or  Skins  from  each, 
and  rub  them  gently  in  a  linnen  Cloth  to  dry. 
When  this  is  done,  put  them  into  wide-mouth'd 
GlalTes,  with  about  fix  or  eight  frefh  Bay- 
leaves  to  a  Quar%  a  quarter  of  an  Ounce  of 
Mace,  two  large  Rafes  of  Ginger  fliced.  All  ; 
thefe  Ingredients  muft  be  interfperfed  here  and 
there  in  the  Glafles  among  the  Onions,  and 
then  boil  your  Vinegar  with  about  two  Oun- 
ces of  Bay-Salt  to  each  Quart,  taking  off  the 
Scum  as  it  rifes,  and  letting  it  (land  to  be 
coldi  pour  it  into  the  Glaffes,  and  cover 
them  ciofe  with  wet  Bladders,  and  tie  them 

dov/ns 


DlHECTOR.  149 

down  5    they  will   eat  weli^    and  look  very 
white. 

About  the  end  of  this  Month,  if  the  Sea^ 
fon   has  been  tolerable,    the  Grapes   in   our 
£;2^///6  Vineyards  will  be  ripe,  and  then  we 
muft  be  careful  to  gather  them  in  dry  Wea- 
ther, that  the  Wine  may  keep  the  better.     I 
have  already  mention'd>  in  my  other  Works, 
the  curious  Vineyard  near  £^/^,  and  that  be- 
longing to  Mr.  John  Warner  at  Rotherhith-^ 
where  good  Wines  are  made  every  year  i   and 
alfo  that  at  T>arking  in  Surrey,  belonging  to 
Mt,  Howard,  which  is  a  very  good  one  :  but 
as  fome  years  are  lefs  favourable  than  others 
to  the  Grape,  as  well  with  us  as  abroad,  it  will 
not  be  unneceffary  to  take  notice  of  a  few 
Particulars,  which  I  have  obferv'd  this  year 
1726,  concerning  the  management  of  Vines, 
which  I  have  only  communicated  to  a  few. 
I  fhall  alfo  fet  down  a  few  Dircdions  for  the 
making  of  Wine>  which  have  not  been  hi- 
therto mention  d  in  any  of  my  Works,  or  by 
Mr.  Evelyn^  or  Mr*  Mortimer, 

As  to  the  firft,  we  are  to  obferve,  that  the 
Situation  of  our  Ifland  occafions  our  Seafons 
to  be  more  uncertain  than  on  the  Continent, 
or  between  the  Tropics.  The  cold  and  wee 
Summer,  1725,  prevented  the  ripening  of 
our  later  kind  of  Grapes  i  and  indeed  I  did  not 
meet  any  where  with  a  Grape  that  had  its  per* 
fed  Flavour,  unlefs  the  Vines  were  forced  s 
but  yet  there  were  abundance.  However,  this 
Year,  1726,  on  the  contrary,  there  are  very 

L  few 


1 5  o  The  Country  Lad/s 

few  Grapes,  and  thofe  arc  likely  to   be  vcfy 
good,  fome  being  already  ripe  againft  common 
Walls,  without  Art  5  fuch  as  the  wbke  Mufca-* 
dine  the  24th  of  July,  and  black  Clufter-Grape. 
And  at   Sir  Nicholas  Garrard's    Garden   in 
EJfex,  I  cat  fome  of  the  black   Frontiniack  -^jj 
full  in  pcrfeftion,  at  the  fame  time  5  and  then    ' 
thegrilly  and  white  jFr^;^^/«/^f^  Grapes,  which 
are  the   lateft  kinds,    were  tranfparent,    and 
within  a  little  of  being  fit  to  gather  :  which 
is  a  Novelty  fo  great,  that  has  not  been  ob- 
ferv'd    in   England  in    my    time  5   for   the 
Frontiniack    Grapes    feldom    ripen   till    the 
end  of  September y  and   th^n  in  a  bad  Year 
we  cannot  expeft  them  without  Art.     How- 
ever, the  Vines  in  this  worthy   Gentleman's 
Garden  are  of  long  (landing,  and  have  been> 
by  his  own  Diredions,  ordered  and  manag  d  in 
a  very  artful  manner  for  feveral  Years.     And 
tho'  this  Year  generally    we  find  fo  fmail  a 
quantity  in   other   Gardens,  yet  at  this  place 
there  are  as  many  as  I  judge  are  in  the  whole 
County  bcfides.  In  moft  otherplaces  that  I  have 
obfsrv'd  this  Year,  the  common  way  of  ma- 
nagement has  been  rather  regarded  than  the 
rational  part  5  and    even  the  beft   Gardeners 
have  faird  in  their  Pruning  the  laft  Year,  for 
the  produdion  of  this  Year's  Fruit.     I  much 
wonder,  that  after  the  Demonftrations  I  have 
l^iven  from  Fads,ever  fince  the  Year  1717?  that 
Vines  would  grow  and  profper  well  to  be  planted 
in  old  dry  Walls  i  and  the  Inftances  I  publifh'd 
in  the  fame  Year,  in  my  new  Improvements, 
-     -  :■  of 


Director.  151 

©f  Vines  bearing  bcft  in  dry  Rubbifii,  or  the 
moft  dry  Soil  :     I  fay,  it  is   furprizing,   that 
fomeof  thofe  to  wiiom  Igave  that  fatisfaftion, 
fhould  not  guard  againft  cxcefs  of  Wet,  efpe- 
cially  when  every  one,  who  has  judgment  in 
the  Affair    of  Vegetation,  muft  know,  that 
over-abundant  Moifture  will  deftroy  the  bear- 
ing Quality  of  any  Plant,  and  more  efpecially 
of  fuch  a  kind  of  Plant  as    delights  in  dry 
mountainous  Countries,  as  the  Vine  is  known 
todoi  but  a  common  method  of  Management 
has  fo  poffefs'd  fome  People,  that  they  will  not 
give  themfelves  leave  to  think  that  an  Altera- 
tion of  a  Seafon  from  a  dry  to  a  wet,  will 
occafion  an  alteration  in  a  Plant.     There  is  one 
Inftancc  particularly,  which  I  cannot  help  men- 
tioning, relating  to  Vines,  andthe  neceffity  of 
keeping  their  Roots  from  Wet,   which  I  ob- 
ferv'd  this  Year  at  Twittenham,  at  John  Ro- 
barts's  Efq.   This  Gentleman  has  feveral  Vines 
laid  up  againft  the  fide  of  his  Houfc,  as  full  of 
Grapes  as  I  have  ever  feen  any  5   but  at  the 
bottom  where  they  grow,  the  Ground  is  paved 
with  Bricks  for  about  ten  or  twelve  foot  from 
the  Wall  they  are  nail'd  to.  This  Pavement,  in 
the  laft   wet  Summer,   kept  the  Roots  from 
imbibing,  or  receiving  too   much  Moifture, 
and  therefore  the  Juices  of  the  Vines  were  di- 
gefted,  and  capable  of  producing  Fruit  this  Year$ 
whereas    fuch  Vines  as  were   not  growing  in 
dry  places   naturally,  or  had  their  Roots  de- 
fended from  the  violent  Wet  by  accident,  have 
few  or  no  Grapes  at  all,     My    Obfervations 

L  z  this 


152  The  Country  Ladfs 

this  Year,  in  fome  places  where  there  are 
Pavements,  (iill  confirms  me  in  myOpinioHi 
and  where  there  was  any  tolerable  Skill  in 
Pruning,  I  am  perfuaded  every  one  will  find 
that  there  have  been  Grapes  this  Year,  or  now 
are  on  thofe  Vines  that  have  flood  in  paved 
places,  where  the  Pavcmentdefcnded  the  Roots 
from  the  wet  of  the  laft  Year.  And  as  I  have 
already  mentioned  in  this,  and  other  Works, 
the  neceflity  of  planting  Vines  in  dry  places, 
for  regular  Seafons ;  and  thefe  Inftances  fhew- 
ing  us  the  advantage  of  doing  the  fame  in  wet 
Seafons  5  I  think  one  may  reafonably  judge, 
that  Pavements  made  over  fuch  places  where 
Vines  are  planted,  as  well  as  Rubbifh  and  dry 
Ground  to  plant  them  in,  is  the  beft  way  wc 
can  take  for  them.  This  way,  particularly  in 
a  wet  Year,  will  keep  our  Vines  from  running 
into  long  Joints,  and  the  Juices  confequently 
in  digcfting,  as  we  find  by  experience  3  for  no 
long-jointed  Shoots  of  Vines  are  fruitful  as 
they  ought  to  be,  and  rarely  bear  any  Fruit 
at  all.  Tis  the  fhort-jointed  Shoots  that  will 
bear  Fruit  plentifully  $  and  where  there  is 
much  Wet  at  the  Root,  you  muft  expeft  very 
few  fhort  Joints,  and  alfo  very,  little  Fruit : 
therefore,  in  this  cafe,  the  Roots  ought  al- 
ways to  be  defended  from  Wet. 

This  Year,  1726,  was,  at  the  beginning,  a 
gentle  and  moid  Spring,  but  April  and  May 
were  hot  5  which  brought  every  thing  fo  for- 
ward, that  our  Harveft  was  about  five  or  fix 
Weeks  forwarder  than  it  has  been  for  fcveral 

Years 


Director.  i  ^  j 

Years  paft.  The  Cafe  I  have  mcntion'd  of 
the  Grapes  ripening  naturally,  was  in  propor- 
tion to  the  forwardnefs  of  the  Marvefti  every 
thing  that  1  have  obferved  in  the  fame  way 
*^  was  alike.  The  laft  Year  was  as  extraordinary 
in  the  latenefs  of  Crops,  for  then  everything 
was  as  backward  through  the  perpetual  Rain 
we  had  in  the  Summer.  Some  time  or  other 
this  Memorandum  may  be  of  ufc,  if  my  Pa- 
pers laft  fo  long ;  however,  for  the  prefcnt, 
confider  how  thefe  two  different  Years  have 
affeded  the  Vine  ,•  the  laft  wet  Year  made  the 
Vines  fhootftrong  and  vigorous,  and  there  was 
no  Fruit  this  Year  :  nor  was  this  only  with  us 
in  Britain^  but  every  where  m  Europe.  The 
laft  Year  produced  fuch  Floods,  from  the  con- 
tinued Rains  at  unexpeded  Seafons,  as  was 
never  known  in  the  memory  of  Man,  the 
Vines  fhot  vigorouflyj  and  this  Year  there 
were  very  few  Grapes  of  the  firft  Crop  :  but 
this  Summer  was  fo  good  and  favourable,  by 
its  warm  Months  at  the  beginning  of  the  Sum- 
mer, that  the  Vines  abroad  fhot  oat  frefh 
Crops,  or  fecond  Crops  of  Grapes,  which 
made  up  for  the  other  deficiency.  I  expeft 
the  next  Year  from  hence,  that  the  Vines  will 
produce  a  full  Crop  of  Grapes  abroad,  be- 
caufe  this  Year  has  fettled  the  Juices,  anddi- 
gefted  them  5  but  what  Seafon  there  may  be 
for  ripening,  is  ftill  uncertain,  efpccially  when, 
v/c  have  the  two  laft  Years  in  view.>  But  in 
our  Ga,vdens,  I  fear,  we  fhall  havcworfe  fuc* 
ceil  5  for  what  this  Year  has  dohe,  will  give 

L  I  ,  the 


154-  The  Country  Ladfs 

the  Gardeners  generally  a  hard  piece  of  work? 
for,  as  I  imagine,  there  was  little  care  taken 
in  the  beginning  of  the  Year  to  lay  up  the 
Vines,  efpecially  becaufe  there  wasbutafmall, 
or  no  appearance  of  Grapes  then  5  and  the 
jnegled  of  that  Seafon  in  managing  of  Vines, 
will  be  the  occafion  of  lofing  the  Crop  the 
jnext  Year.  What  I  fay  here  about  the  ma- 
nagement of  Vines  in  the  early  part  of  the 
Year,  I  have  already  treated  of  in  my  other 
Works. 

I  fliall  now  proceed  to  give  fome  Particu- 
lars relating  to  the  making  of  Wines  of  Grapes, 
which  I  believe  may  help  thofe  who  make 
Wines  in  our  Englifh  Vineyards,  and  make 
them  ftronger  and  richer  than  they  have  ufu-^ 
ally  been. 

Confidering  the  uncertainty  of  Seafons,  and 
that  every  fort  of  Grape  will  not  always  ri- 
pen without  Art,  it  will  be  necelTary  to  con- 
trive  how  that  Defeft  may  be  amended.  The 
Richnefs  of  Wine  depends  upon  the  Ripenefs 
of  the  Grapes ;  and  therefore  when  Grapes 
have  not  had  the  advantage  of  a  favourable 
Seafon  to  ripen,  the  Liquor  prefs'd  from  the 
Grapes,  maybe  amended  by  boilings  for  this 
extraordinary  Heat  will  corred  the  Juice,  by 
evaporating  the  two  great  quantity  of  watery 
parts.  This  Method,  however  ripe  the  Grapes 
were  among  the  znticnt  Greeks  2ind  Romans, 
was  frequently,  if  not  always  praftifed ;  and 
if  pradifed  in  thofe  more  Southern  Climes, 
why  is    it  not   as   reafonable  in  ours?  But 

that 


Director:  155 

that  this   IS  not  now  praftifed  any  where  in 
Europe-,  is  no  reafon  why  Wines  may  not  be 
the  better  for  it.     I  fuppofe  the  only  reafon 
why  it  is  not  now   pradifed,    is,  becaufe  it 
would  be  an  Expence  and  Trouble,  more  than 
the  Mafters  of  Vineyards  have  ufually  been  at  ^ 
and   fo  long  as  they  can  fell   their  Wines  at  a 
conftant  Price,  they  do  not  care  to  go  out  of 
the  way  ;  but  in  a  bad  Seafon  there  is  no  doubt 
but   even  the  Wines  in    France  might  be  me- 
liorated  by    boiling :  As  in  the  Inftance   of 
the  Front iniack  Grapes,  that  are  four  and  un- 
ripe, and  without  Flavour,  yet,    by  boiling  or 
baking,  they  will  gain  the  high  JFlavour  that 
is  found  in  them    when  they  arc  well-ripen  d, 
by  the  Sun  5  but  in  baking  or  boiling  unripe 
Grapes  in  the  Skins,  one  muft  expect  that  the 
fournefs  of  the  Skins  will  communicate  a  four- 
nefs  to  thejuiccs  enclofed  ;  but  the  juices  be- 
ing prefs'd  and  boird,  will  ripen  and  become 
pleafant.  In  my  New  Improvements  ofTlant- 
ing  and  Gardening,  I  have  given  large  Direc- 
tions for  making  of  Wine  of  Grapes,  and  in  this, 
have  alfo  given  variety  of  Receipts  for  making 
of  Wines  of  Fruits  of  our  own  growth  5  from 
whence  we   may  learn  the  Ufe  of  boiling  Jui- 
ces of  Fruits,  and  what  will  require  fermenting 
by  Yeaft,  and  what  do  not.     You  will  find  that 
fuch  Wines  as  are  boiled  with  Sugar,  are  to  be 
fermenred  with  Yeaft  ;  and  fuch  as  have  Rai- 
fms  for  their  foundation,  will  ferment  in  fonic 
meafure  of  themfelvcs.     And  efpecially  ob- 
serve, that  while  any  Liquor  is   fermenting, 

L  4.  the 


15  6  The  Country  Ladfs 

the  Veffel  it  is  cnclofed  in  muft  be  kept  open 
till  it  has  quite  done  working ,  for  if  we  fhould 
flop  it  up  before  that  Action  is  over,  it  will 
certainly  burft  the  Veffel  j  or  if  it  has  room 
enough,  will  turn  four,  and  be  always  thick 
^nd  troubled.  Again,  all  Wines,  and  other 
Liquors,  muft  be  ftopt  clofc  as  foon  as  they 
have  done  working,  or  elfe  the  Liquors  will 
grow  flat  and  dead.  Some  Wines  will  fer- 
ment fix  Weeks  or  two  Months  after  they  are 
in  the  Veffel,  as  one  may  know  by  the  hilling 
noife  which  they  make ,  but  when  that  is  done, 
then  the  ferment  is  over,  and  they  fhould  be 
clofedup.  But  fome  Wines  will  ferment  much 
longer  than  two  Months^  and  then  it  is  a  fign 
that  they  ftand  too  hot  5  then  they  muftbeput 
in  a  cooler  place,  ortheoutfide  of  the  Veffel 
frequently  cooi'd  or  refrcfh'd  with  Water, 
which  will  flop  the  ferment.  Again,  fome  will 
not  ferment  as  they  ought  to  do,  and  then 
thcymuft  be  fet  in:  warmer  places,  which  will 
raife  the  ferment. 

In  very  bad  Years  wc  may  help  our  Wines 
with  a  fmall  quantity  of  Sugar,  perhaps  a  Pound 
to  a  Gallon  of  Juice,  to  boil  together  3  but 
whether  we  add  Sugar  or  no,  wc  muft  be  furc 
to  take  the  Scum  off  the  Wines  as  it  rifes  when 
they  arc  boiling. 

In  the  colder  Climates,  we  ought  not  to 
prefs  the  Grapes  fo  clofe  as  they  do  in  the  hot 
Countries,  becaufe  in  the  colder  parts  of  the 
World,  and  in  places  the  mod  remote  from 
the  Sun,  the  Skins  of  the  Grapes  arc   much 

thicker. 


Dl  RE  CTO  R^  157 

thicker,  and  carry  a  Sournefs  in  them  which 
fhould  not  be  too  much  prefs'd  to  mix  with 
the  richer  part  of  the  Grape  i  but  in  the  hot- 
ter Climes,  the  Skins  of  the  Grapes  are  thin, 
and  the  Sournefs  reftify'd  by  the  Sun,  and 
will  bear  preffing  without  injuring  the  finer 
Juices. 

There  is  one  thing  which  I  fhall  mention 
with  regard  to  the  Endeavours  that  have  been 
ufed  to  make  Wine  in  the  Ifland  of  St.  He- 
lena-^ a  Place  fo  fituate,  that  it  lies  as  a  refting- 
place  between  thefe  Northern  Parts,  and  the 
Eaft'IndieSy  and  lb  remote  from  other  places, 
that  could  there  be  good  Wine  made  there,  it 
would  be  of  great  help  and  afliftance  to  the 
Ships  that  f^that  way :   But  I  am  informed 
by  a  curious  Gehtleman,  who  has  had  many 
good  Accounts  of  that  Place,  that  the  Vines 
which  have  been  planted  there,  are  of  fuch 
forts,  as  bring  the  Grapes  ripe  and  rotten  on 
one  fide  of  the  Bunch,  and  green  on  the  other 
at  the  fame  time,  which  furely  can  never  make 
good  Wine.     But  upon  enquiry,  they  are  only 
fuch  forts  of  Grapes  as  grow  in  clofe  Clufters, 
and  therefore  the  fide  next  the  Sun  muft  be 
ripe  much  fooner  than  the  other  5  for  the  Cli- 
mate there  is  fo  violent  hot,    that  there  arc 
no  Walls  ufed  behind  them  to  reflcd  the  Heat 
to  ripen  the  Backs  of  the  Bunches. 

Therefore,  I  fuppofe  that  the  bed  way  to 
have  good  Wine  made  in  thofe  Parts,  is  to 
furnilh  that  Place  with  Vines  which  may  bring 
their  Grapes  in  open  or  loofe  Bunches,  fuch 

as 


Vi?  ^he  Country  Ladfs 

as  the  Raifm-grape,  and  fome  others^  which 
do  not  cluftcr ;  for  then  the  Sun  would  have 
an  equal  efFeft  upon  all  the  Grapes,  and  good 
Wine  might  be  mad«  of  them  :  But  the  worr 
thy  Gentleman  who  told  me  of  this,  has,  \ 
hear,  fent  to  St,  Helena  a  CoUedion  of  fuch 
Grapes  as  will  anfweir  the  defired  end. 

This  is  likewife  the  Month  when  Saffron 
appears  above  ground  5  fometimes  fooner, 
fometimes  later,  according  as  the  Seafon  is 
earlier  or  later.  This  Year,  1726,  I  was  in 
the  Saffron  Country,  and  in  the  beginning  of 
Auguji  the  Saffron-heads  or  Roots  had  fhut  up 
fo  long  in  the  flowering  part,  that  the  Plan- 
ters were  forced  to  put  them  into  the  Ground  : 
i  mean,  fuch  as  were  defign  d  for  new  Planta- 
tions, which  is  fooner  by  near  a  Month  than 
they  ufed  to  fprout,  though  they  lay  dry  in 
Heaps,  the  Weather  had  fo  great  an  effeft  upon 
them. 

About  Littlebury,  Chefterfordy  Linton,  and 
fome  other  Places  thereabouts,  is  certainly  now 
the  greatefl:  Quantity  of  Saffron  of  any  part  of 
the  Kingdom  5  the  famous  Place  noted  for- 
inerly  for  it,  caird  Saffron-Walden,  being  at 
this  time  without  it.  However,  the  People 
of  the  Places  which  I  have  named,  do  not 
forbear  bringing  it  to  Wdden  Market,  or  dri- 
ving Bargains  there  for  large  Quantities  of  it, 
tho'  the  Market  at  Linton  is  looked  upon  to 
be  much  the  beft.  What  I  have  faid  in  my 
Country  Gentleman  and  Farmefs  Monthly 
"Director ^  gives  ample  Inftructions  for  the  Ma- 
nage- 


Director:  159 

nagcmcnt  of  Saffron,   but  I  may  here  add  a 
word  or  two  more  concerning  it ;  which  is, 
that  confidering  how  many  Accidents  the  Saf- 
fron is  fubjeft  to,  that  is  dry'd  upon  the  cpm« 
mon  Kilns,  by  the  fcorching  of  it  by  too  hot 
a  Fire,  and  the  Unskilfuhiefs  of  the  Dryers, 
I  do  not  wonder  that  there  is  fo  much  Saffron 
fpoiled.      Where  there  are  unskilful  Hands 
employ 'd  in  the  drying  part,  one  ought  to 
provide    fuch  Kilns  for   them    as   are  large 
enough  to  diftribute  the  Heat  moderately,  and 
as  conftant  as  poflible  ;  which  may  partly  be 
helped  by  providing  fuch  a  Pire  as  may  be  con- 
ftant, and  not  give  more  Heat  at  one  time  than 
another  5  for  there  is  a  great  deal  of  Judgment 
in  that.     I  find,  that  by  the  common  way, 
fome  Saffron  is  fcorch'd,  and  fome  unequally 
dry'd,  for  which  reafon  I  have  contrived  fuch 
a  Kiln  as  muft  neceffarily  anfwer  the  end  which 
is  propofed  in  the  drying  of  Saffron  5  that  is, 
to  put  it  into  a  ftate  of  keeping  with  its  Vir- 
tue in  it,  and  to  put  it  out  of  the  danger  of 
being  fcorch'd  in  the  drying.    This  I  fhall  pub- 
lifh  in  my  Natural  Hiftory  (9/Cambridgefhire 
and  Effex,    which  will  foon  appear   in   the 
World. 

As  for  the  way  which  is  now  commonly 
praftifed  in  the  drying  of  Saffron,  it  is,  when 
you  have  provided  a  Kiln,  fuch  as  I  have  de- 
fcribed  in  my  Farmer  s  Monthly  'Dire&or, 
with  a  Cloth  made  of  Horfe-hair  on  the  top, 
ftrain  the  Hair-cloth  tight,  and  lay  on  two 
Sheets  of  Saffron-paper,  that  is,  a  fort  of  Pa- 
per 


1 6a  The  Country  Ladfs 

per  made  on  purpofe  for  that  Ufe,  which 
is  very  large  5  and  prepare  a  little  Veffel  with 
fome  Small-beer,  and  as  many  Chives  of  Saf- 
fron as  will  make  it  of  a  deep  Colour  to  ftand 
by  you  5  fprinkle  over  the  Paper  with  a  Brufh 
or  Feather  dipt  in  this  Liquor,  and  fpread  your 
Saffron  upon  it,  either  in  a  fquare  or  a  round 
Figure,  about  three  Inches  thick,  and  cover 
the  Saffron  with  two  Sheets  more  of  the  fame 
kind  of  Paper,  and  lay  a  woollen  Cloth  upon 
them,  and  over  that  a  Board,  which  will  cover 
the  top  of  the  Kiln  :  view  this  now  and  then, 
till  you  fee  that  the  Steam  of  the  Saffron  comes 
through  the  upper  Papers.  Then  take  off  the 
Board  and  Woollen-cloth,  and  taking  the  Pa- 
pers on  each  fide  with  your  Hands,  turn  the 
Saffron  in  the  Papers,  fo  that  the  under-fide  be 
uppcrmoft  j  taking  off  prefently  after  the  Pa- 
pers which  were  firfl  the  undermpfj:,  and  then 
fmooth  down  the  fide  of  the  Saffron  that 
was  firil  next  the  Fire  with  a  Knife,  fo  that  it 
lie  all  equal.  Then  cover  it  as  it  was  at  firfl:, 
and  after  a  little  time  turn  the  Saffron  as  you 
did  before,  and  fpread  then  the  upper- fide  even 
with  a  Knife,  as  you  did  at  firfl ;  then  fprin- 
kle  your  Saffron  with  the  Brufh  dipt  in  the 
prepared  Liquor  upon  the  dry  parts  of  the 
Cake,  and  cover  it  as  before  j  let  it  lie  then  a 
little,  and  turn  it  as  occafion  requires,  which 
may  be  fooner  or  later,  as  the  Fire  in  the  Kiln 
is  quick  or  flow,  minding  every  time,  as  you 
turn  it,  to  fprinkle  the  dry  parts  with  the 
Liquor  5  the  more  it  fhrinks,  the  oftner  you 

muft 


Director,'  i6i 

muft  turn  your  Cake  of  Saffron,  minding  flill 
to  fprinkle  the  dry  parts  i    and  when  it   has 
fhrunk  about  three  fourths  of  the  firft  thicknefs, 
lay  a  Stone  or  Weight  upon  the  Board  at  the 
top  of  the  Kiln,  of  about  feven  or  eight  Pound 
weight,  the  Board  already  being  about  ten  or  a 
dozen  Pounds  5  when  it  is  dry  enough,  take  it 
off  the  Kiln,  and  the  Paper  it  was  dried  in 
will  be  of  good  ufe  s  remember  to  keep  your 
Pire  gentle  and  clear.     We  may  note,  that  a 
Gatherer   of  Saffron  has  this  Year  about  ten 
Pence /^r  Drain,  and  that  about  fix  Pounds,  or 
jfix  Pounds  and  a  half  of  raw  Saffron  will  dry  to 
a  Pound  5  but  generally  they  allow  only  fix 
Pounds  of  wet  Saffron  to  a  Pound  of  dry  Saf- 
fron :  but  that  depends  upon  the  Dryers,  v/ho 
fometimes  out  of  a  Wiilingnefs  to  get  Money, 
do  not  dry  it  fo  much  as  they  ought  to  do.    It 
is  a  Rule  among  the  Saffron-Planters  in  Cam- 
bridgefhirej  that  fixteen  Quarters  of  Saffron- 
Roots,  or  Heads,  will  plant   an  Acre;    and 
that  a  full  Acre  this  Year  produces  about  fc- 
venteen  or  eighteen  Pounds  of  dry  Saffron, 
tho'  the  common  rate  is  about  fixteen  Pounds. 
About  this  time  you  have  many  green  Me- 
lons upon  the  Vines  which  will  not  ripen  j  and 
befides,   if  they  would,  that  Fruit  would  now 
be  too  cold  for  the  Stomach :  therefore  it  is  ad- 
vifable  to  pickle  them,  to  make  them  imitate 
Mango's,  which   fomc  prefer   before  Mango 
Cucumbers.     The  following  is  the  Receipt 
to  pickle   them. 

To 


162  Ithe  Country  Ladfs 

To  pickle  green  Melons^  in  imitation  of 

Mango. 

TH  E  Mango  is  a  Fruit  brought  to  us  from 
the  EaJl'IndieSy  about  the  Shape  and  Big- 
nefs  of  a  fmall  Melon;  it  has  a  large  Stone  in 
it,  and  comes  to  us  in  a  Pickle,  which  is  ftrong 
tafted  of  Garlick,  but  approved  by  moft  Peo- 
ple. When  we  gather  Melons  for  this  ufe,  we 
muft  wafh  them  and  cut  them,  as  direded 
for  the  Mango  Cucumbers,  then  lay  them  in 
Salt  and  Water,  fliifting  the  Salt  and  Water 
every  four  and  twenty  Hours,  for  nine  Days 
fucccflively  5  after  which,  take  them  out  and 
wipe  them  dry,  and  put  into  the  infide  of 
each,  which  has  been  already  fcraped,  the 
fame  Ingredients  direfted  for  your  Mango 
Cucumbers,  and  tie  them  up  :  then  boil  your 
Pickle  of  Vinegar,  Bay-Salt,  and  Spices,  with 
thefe  Mangoes  in  it ;  fcumming  it  as  it  rifes, 
and  with  it  a  piece  of  Allum  as  directed  in  the 
Receipt  for  Mango  Cucumbers,  and  afterwards 
follow  that  Receipt  till  your  Melons  are  fit  to 
ufe. 

Now  we  have  Wild-Ducks  fit  for  the  Table, 
and  it  is  to  be  noted,  that  thefe  fhould  not  be 
larded  as  Land^Fowls,  in  the  roaftingof  them. 
It  muft  be  obferved,  that  they  be  fent  to  Table 
with  the  Gravey  in  them  5  but  before  they  are 
laid  down  to  the  Fire,  it  is  pradis'd  in  many 
places,  to  chop  Onions,  the  Leaves  of  red 
Sage,  and  mix  thefe  with  Pepper  and  Salt,  to 
be  put  in  the  Belly  of  the  Ducks  5  and  when 

they 


t)  I  R  E  C  T  O  R^  163 

they  are  brought  to  Table,  pour  a  GJafs  of 
Claret  warm'd  through  the  Body  of  the  Ducks, 
which  with  fonie  Gravey,  that  muft  be  fent  in 
the  Difli,  under  the  Ducks,  will  make  a  pro- 
per Sauce  for  them. 

Another  agreeable  way  of  eating  Ducks,  is 
roafting  them,   and  eating  them  with  boiFd 
Onions  $  they  are  fometimes  ufed  in  Soups,  and 
baked,  and  they  like  wife  eat  very  well  when 
they  are  half  roafted,  and  then  cut  to  pieces 
and  ftew'd  with  their  own  Gravey  and  Claret, 
Now  Stubble  Geefe  will  be  in  feafon,  after 
they  have  been  taken  up  and  fed  for  a  Fort- 
night or  thereabouts,  in  a  clofe  place,  with  Bar- 
ley and  Water  5  but  during  their  Confinement^ 
they  muft  never  want  Victuals.    Note^  the  Bar- 
ley muft  have  no  more  Water  v^ith  it  than 
will  juft  cover  it,  and  they  muft  never  have 
their  Corn  dry.     If  during  the  time  of  their 
feeding,  you  happen  to  let  them  out  to  ramble 
for  a  few  hours,    they  will  iofe  more  good 
Flefh  in  that  time,  than  they  can  regain  in 
three  Days  ;  therefore  when  you  have  once  put 
them  up,  keep  them  up  till  they  are  fit  to  kill : 
but  if  you  would  have  them  very  fat,  put  them 
in  a  Coop  for  a  Week  or  ten  Days  before 
you   kill  them,  and  feed  them  with  Barley- 
Meal   and  Water,    made  almoft  as  thick  as 
Pafte  i  and  always  let  there  be  feveral  of  them 
together,  for  a  fingle  one  will  pine,  and  Iofe 
Flelh,  inftead  of  incrcafing  it  by  Eating.    As  to 
the  drcfling  of  this  Fowl  while  it  is  young,  in 
the  Spring,  under  the  Charader  of  a  Grecn- 

i  Goofe, 


1 64  The  Country  Ladfs 

Goofe,  it  is  fatted  m  a  Coop  with  Barley-Mea^I 
and  Walcr,  and  being  kiird  and  fcalded  when 
'tis  fat,  'tis  roafted  and  eaten  wuth  green  Sauce, 
or  fcalded  Goosberrics :  but  being  full  grown, 
as  at  this  time  of  the  Year,  is  roafted,  beins  firft 
faked  and  pepper'd  within  fide,  and  faked  with- 
out fide.  Some  put  an  Onion,  and  fome  Sage- 
Leaves  into  the  Body  of  the  Goofe,  when  it 
is  laid  down  to  the  Pire,  and  when  it  is  brought 
to  Table,  it  is  ferv'd  with  Apples  itew'd  and 
niafli'd  in  a  Plate  by  the  Side;  but  for  the 
Sauce  in  the  Difli,  there  need  be  none  but 
fome  Claret  heated,  and  pour'd  thro'  the  Body 
of  the  Goofe,  to  mix  with  its  own  Gravey. 
Some  alfo  fait  Geefe,    and  boil  them   with 
Greens,   as  with  other  fait  Meat ;   a  Goofe 
may  alfo  be  bak'd  in  a  Pye  to  be  eaten  cold. 
A  Goofe  is  to  be  kill'd,  by  pulling  firft  the 
Feathers  at  the  back  of  the  Head,  and  cutting 
pretty  deep  with  a  fharp  Penknife,  between 
the  back  of  the  Head  and  the  Neck,  taking 
care  that  it  does  not  ftruggle,  fo  as  to  make 
the  Feathers  bloody,  for  that  will  fpoil  them: 
and  'tis  to  be  noted,  the  Feathers  of  a  full- 
grown  Goofe  are  worth  four  Pence  to  be  fold 
in  the  Country ;  this  I  had  from  a  Gentle- 
woman in  Surrey,     In  Hollandxhty  flk  Geefe 
down  the  Back,  and  fait  them  with  Sak-Petrc, 
and  other  Salt,  and  then  dry  them  like  Bacon  5 
they  eat  very  well,  if  they  are  boiled  tender. 

OC  TO' 


Director* 


l65 


OCTOBER, 


HIS  Month  is  a  noted  Month  fof 
brewing  of  Malt  Liquors  cfpcciallyi 
Brown,  or  high-dficd  Malt  is  to  be 
ufcd,  as  I  have  mentioned  at  jarse 


in  the  Month  of  March,  under  the  Article  of 
Brewing  5  to  which  I  refer  my  Reader,  to  be 
fully  fatistied  of  fuch  Particulars  relating  to  it, 
as  fccm  to  be  the  Icall  confider'd,  altho' they 
are  the  moft  contributing  to  the  Perfedion  of 
Malt  Liquors. 

At  this  Scafon,  Oyllcrs,  Muffels,  Cockles^ 
and  fuch  kind  of  Shell-Fifh  are  good  and  in 
Seafon  ;  as  for  the  Oyftcr,  it  is  not  only  to  be 
eaten  raw,  but  makes  an  agreeable  Diili  ilew'd, 
or  in  Scailop-Shelis5  and  befides,  being  ufeful 
in  many  Sauces,  are  extremely  good  when  they 
are  well  pickled.    Altho'  the  Oyfter  may  feem 
foreign  to  a  Farm,  or  fome  part  of  the  Coun- 
try, yet  confidering  that  we  live  in  a  part  of 
the  World  furroundcd  with  a  Sea  that  produ- 
ces the  beft  Oyfters,  and  that  they  are  a  fort  of 
Shell-Fifh  which  we  can  keep  a  long  time,  and 
feed  them,  I  think  it  neceflary  to  take  notice 
of  them.     About  Colchefter  the    Oyfler-Pits 
.  are  only  fmall  Holes  about  twelve  foot  fquare, 

M  bv 


1 66  The  Country  Ladfs 

by  the  fide  of  the  River,   where  the  fait  Wa- 
tcrcomcsup,  and  has  a  paffage  into  them  at 
the  height  of  the  Tides  5    in  thefe  places  the 
Oyllcrs  are  hud,  and  there  grow  fat,  and  be- 
come green,  by  a  fort  of  Weed  which  is  cal- - 
led  Crow-Silk  :    and  this  may  be  done  any 
where,  if  there  is  a  River  with  fait  Water,  as 
well  as  by  CoUheJleVj  and  be   kept   two    or 
three  Months  j    fo  that  1  wonder  'tis  not  prac- 
tifcd  in  other  places.     But  if  we  have  not  this 
conveniency,  yet  if  we  lay  them  in  Salt  and 
Water  after  the  Shells  are  well  wafh'd,  juft 
Vv/hcn  they  come  from  the  Sea,   they  will  keep 
a  Fortnight  in  pretty  good  order,  if  the  Wea* 
filer  be  cool,  and  they  can  have  the  open  Air  ; 
but  then  the  Salt  and  Water  fhould  be  changed 
every  four  and  twenty  hours.     The  following 
Pvcccipts  are  very  good  for  preparing  them  for 
the  Table. 

Tofie'w  Oyjters,     From  Exeter. 

Akc  large  Oyfl:ers,open  them, and  fave  their 
Liquor  5  then  when  the  Liquor  i'i^  fettled, 
pour  off  the  Clear,  and  put  it  in  a  Stew-Pan, 
with  fomc  Blades  of  Mace,  a  little  grated  Nut- 
meg, and  fome  whole  Pepper,  to  boil  gently, 
tillit  is  ilrong  enough  of  the  Spices  :  then  take 
out  the  Spices,  and  put  in  thcOyfters  to  ftew 
gently,  that  they  be  not  hard  i  and  when  they 
arc  near  enough,  add  a  piece  of  Butter,  and  as 
much  grated  Bread  as  will  thicken  the  Liquor 
of  the   Oyfters  5    and  juft  before   you   take 

them 


Director.  167 

them  from  the  Fire,  ftir  in  a  Glafs  of  White- 
wine. 

Roafted  Oyjlers  in  Scallop   Shells.     From 

Exeter. 

PRovidc  fome  large  fcallop  Shells,  fuch  as 
are  the  deepeft  and  holloweft  you  can  get, 
which  Shells  are  fold  at  the  Fifhmongers  at 
London  5  then  open  fuch  a  Number  of  Oy- 
fters  as  will  near  fill  the  Shells  you  dcfign,  and 
fave  the  Liquor  to  fettle  5  then  pour  a  moderate 
quantity  of  the  Liquor  into  each  Shell,  and 
put  a  Blade  of  Mace,  and  fome  whole  Pepper 
with  it ;  after  which,  put  into  your  Shells  a 
fmall  piece  of  Butter,  and  cover  the  whole 
with  grated  Bread  :  then  fet  thefe  on  a  Grid- 
Iron  over  the  Fire,  and  when  they  are  enough, 
give  the  grated  Bread  at  the  tops  of  the  Shells  a 
browning  with  a  red-hot  Iron,  and  ferve  them. 
The  fame  Perfon  who  fent  the  foregoing 
Receipts,  concerning  Oyfters,  advifes  another 
way  of  roafting  Oyfters,  which  I  think  is 
a  very  good  one,  and  not  much  known.  It 
is,  to  take  large  Oyfters,  open  them,  and  hang 
them  by  the  finny  part  on  a  fmall  Spit,  after 
having  firft  dipt  them  in  the  Yolk  of  an  Egg,  and 
roU'd  them  in  Crumbs  of  Bread ;  turn  them 
three  or  four  times  before  the  Fire,  and  bafte 
them  gently  with  Butter,  till  the  Crumbs  of 
Bread  are  crifp  upon  them,  and  ferve  them  hoto 
As  for  their  ufe  in  Sauces,  they  are  proper  with 
Fifti,  and  are  fometimesufed  v^^ith  Fowls  i  thci|. 
own  Liquor  is  always  put  in  fuch  Sauces  wher 

M  z  the^ 

y 


1 6$  The  Country  Ladfs 

are  ufcd.     Por  pickling  of  Oyfters,  the  fol- 
lowing is  an  excellent  Receipt. 

To  pickle  Oyfiers. 

I^Pen  a  quantity  of  large  Oyfters,  faving  their 
^^  Liquor,  and  letting  it  fettle  ,  then  pour 
the  Liquor  clear  off  into  a  Stew-pan,  and  wafh 
the  Oyfters  in  Water  and  Salt :  after  which, 
boil  them  gently  in  their  own  Liquor,  fo  that 
they  are  not  too  hard.  When  they  are  enough, 
take  them  out,  and  add  to  the  Liquor  Ibme 
Mace,  a  few  Cloves,  fome  whole  Pepper,  a 
little  Ginger,  and  a  Bay-Leaf  or  two,  and  let 
the  Liquor  boil,  putting  to  it  about  a  fourth 
part  of  White- wine  Vinegar,  letting  it  conti- 
nue to  boil  a  little  more  5  then  take  it  off,  and 
let  it  (land  to  be  quite  cold.  When  the  Oy- 
fters are  cold,  put  them  into  Jars  or  Gally-pots, 
^nd  pour  the  Liquor  with  the  Spice  cold  upon 
them  5  then  tie  them  down  with  Leather. 

The  Muffcl  and  Cockle  may  be  pickled  af- 
ter the  fame  manner,  only  allowing  this  dif- 
ference i  u  e.  that  Cockles  and  Muffels  are  ta- 
ken out  of  their  Shells  by  fetting  them  over 
the  Fire,  and  opening  them  by  the  Heat ;  but 
before-hand  the  Shells  muft  be  wafh'd  very 
clean,  and  then  muft  be  put  in  the  Sauce-pan 
without  Water,  they  of  themfelves  will  foon 
produce  Liquor  enough :  then  as  the  Shells 
open,  take  out  the  Fifh,  and  wa(h  every  one 
well  in  Salt  and  Water  5  but  as  for  the  Muflels, 
they  muft  every  one  be  carefully  look'd  into, 
and  difcharg  d  from  that  part  which  is  caird 

the 


Director.  169 

the  Beard,  and  alfo  particular  care  miift  be 
taken  to  examine  whether  there  are  any  Crabs 
in  them,  for  they  are  very  poifonous,  and  as 
they  lie  in  the  Mouth  of  the  Muflcl,  may  ea- 
sily be  difcover'd  j  they  are  commonly  as  large 
'  as  a  Pea,  and  of  the  fhape  of  a  Sea- Crab,  but 
are  properly  Sea-Spiders :  the  MuiTels  howe- 
ver where  you  find  them,  arc  not  unwhole* 
fome,  and  it  is  only  the  eating  of  this  little 
Animal,  which  has  been  the  occafion  of  Peo- 
ple's fwelling  after  they  had  eaten  Muflels,  but 
the  goodnefs  of  the  Pifh  is  well  enough  worth 
the  Care  of  looking  after  that.  When  your 
MufTels  or  Cockles  are  all  clean  pick'd  and 
wafli'd,  lay  them  to  cool  5  and  when  their  Li- 
quor is  well  fettled,  pour  off  the  Clear,  and 
boil  it  up  with  the  fame  fort  of  Spices  men- 
tioned above  for  the  pickled  Oyfters,  with  the 
fame  proportion  of  Vinegar  j  and  letting  it 
fland  till  it  is  quite  cold,  put  your  Fifh  into 
proper  Pots,  or  little  Barrels,  and  pour  the 
Liquor  upon  them  till  they  are  covered  with 
it,  and  flop  them  up  clofe :  they  will  keep 
good  two  or  three  Months,  if  the  Liquor  is 
now  and  then  boiled  up,  but  it  muft  be  al- 
ways cold  before  it  be  put  upon  the  Fifh. 

In  the  Management  of  Cockles  for  pickling, 
or  for  eating  any  other  way,  let  the  Shells  be 
very  well  wafh'd,  and  then  lay  the  Cockles  in 
a  Pan  of  Salt  and  Water  for  two  or  three 
days,  to  fcour  themfelves  from  the  Sand  that  is 
in  them  at  their  firft  taking  5  but  obferve  to 
fhift  the  Salt  and  Water  every  day.   The  largcft 

M  3  Cockles 


I70  The  Country  Ladys 

Cockles  that  1  have  obferv'd  on  the  Englijh 
Coafts  are  thofc  found  about  Torbay,  which 
are  fometimcs  brought  to  Exeter  Market  j 
the  Fifli  is  as  large  as  a  good  Oyfter,  and  the 
Shells  of  fomc  arc  above  two  Inches  and  a  half 
Diameter.  Muflels  and  Cockles  may  likewife 
be  ftew'd  and  grili'd  in  Scallop  Shells,  as  direc- 
ted for  Oyftcrs.  The  Muffels  after  they  are 
well  pick'd  are  flowered  and  fryed  in  fome  pla- 
ces, and  eaten  with  Butter  and  Muftard,  and 
the  French  make  rich  Soups  of  them. 

As  this  is  a  Seafon  when  we  have  plenty 
of  Quinces,  I  fhall  infert  the  following  Receipt 
for  making  Wine  of  them,  which  is  very  plea- 
fant. 

To  make  Sluince  Wine,     From  Mrs.  E.  B, 

GAther  your  Quinces  when  they  are  dry,  and 
wipe  thcrn  very  clean  with  a  coarfe  Cloth, 
then  grate  them  with  a  coarfe  Grater  or  a  Rafp, 
as  near  the  Core  as  you  can  j  but  grate  in  none 
of  the  Core,  nor  the  hard  part  about  it:  then 
ftrain  your  grated  Quinces  into  an  earthen  Por, 
and  to  each  Gallon  of  Liquor  put  two  Pounds 
of  fine  Loaf-Sugar,  and  ftirittill  your  Sugar  is 
diffolved  i  then  cover  it  clofe,  and  let  it  ftand 
twenty  four  hours,  by  which  time  it  will  be 
fit  enough  to  bottle,  taking  care  in  the  bottling 
of  it  that  none  of  the  Settlement  go  into  the 
Bottles.  This  will  keep  good  about  a  Year; 
obferve  that  your  Quinces  muft  be  very  ripe 
when  you  gather  them  for  this  ufe. 

Rabbits 


Director.  171 

Rabbits  ftill  continue  in  Scafon  this  Month, 
and  befidcsthc  common  way  of  drclfing  them, 
they  may  be  larded,  and  dreft  in  the  fol]ovvin*j!; 
manner  >  which  1  had  from  a  Gentleman  in 
Suffolk.  Make  a  Farce  for  them,  like  that 
mentioned  for  the  Belly  of  a  Hare  in  the  pre- 
ceding Month,  and  order  its  Management  and 
Sauce  as  for  a  Hare.  A  young  Rabbit,  or  Hare,' 
is  known  by  the  tcndernefs  of  the  Jaw-Bones, 
which  will  eafily  break  by  preffing  v/ith  the 
ringer  and  Thumb. 

Woodcocks  are  now  in  Seafon,  and  it  is  to 
be  advcrtifed  of  them,  that  they  are  to  be  only 
puli'd  of  their  Feathers,  and  not  drawn    like 
other  Fowls,  but  the  Guts  left  in  themj  when 
they  are  roafted,  they  muft  be  ferv'd  uponToafis 
of  Bread,  upon  which  the  Guts  are  fpread  and 
eaten,  when  they  are  brought  to  Table.  The  in- 
ward  of  this  Bird  eats  like  Marrow  5  this  isLcne- 
rally  eaten  withjuice  of  Orange,  a  little  Salt  and 
Pepper,  without  other  Sauce.  The  Legs  of  this 
Bird  are  efteem'd  the  moft,  and  are  therefore 
prefented  to  the  greateft  Strangers  at  Table  5 
but  the  Wings  and  Breaft  of  a  Partridge  are  the 
principal  parts  of  that  Fowl,  for  the  Legs  arc 
full  of  Strings,  like  the  Legs  of  Turkeys  and 
Pheafants. 

The  Snipe  is  of  the  fame  nature  with  the 
Woodcock,  and  is  ordered  in  every  refped  like 
it.  Thefe  may  be  larded  with  Bacon  upon  the 
Breaft,  or  elfeftrew'd  with  Salt  and  Crumbs  of 
Bread,  while  they  are  roafting.  Befides  the 
Sauce  ufcd  for  Woodcocks  and  Snipes,  the  a. 

M  4  forefaid 


17 z  The  Country  Ladfs 

ioi'cf^id  Suffolk  Gcntlcmaxn  has  the  following, 
which  is  Gravey  with  a  lirtJe  minced  Anchovy, 
a  Rocambole,  (bmc  Lemon-Juice,  and  a  little 
Whire-wine  boiled  together  5  and  when  it  is 
ftrain'd,  pour  it  in  a  Saucer,  and  ferve  it  with 
the  Fowls. 

Thefe  Birds  are  in  plenty  among  the  woody 
parts  of  England,  from  September  till  the  end 
of  March:,  and  then  they  all  leave  us  at  one 
time,  except  only  fuch  as  have  been  lamed  by 
the  SpOitfmcn,  and  diiablcd  for  Flight  j  an4 
then  they  will  breed  in  England^  as  there  are 
Inftances  enough.    About  Ttinbridge,  it  is  fre- 
quent to  find  them  in  Summer  j  and  1  have 
known  the  fame  in  Leicefierpjire.     I  think  if 
one  could  take  Woodcocks  here  in  Hay-Nets, 
as  they  do  in  France^  and  pinion  them  or  difa- 
ble  a  Wing,  and  then  turn  them  loofe  again, 
we  might  raife  a  Breed  of  them  that  would 
flay  with  us  5  but  I  have  experienced  that  they 
V7iil  not  feed  if  they  arc  confined  in  Cages  or 
Aviaries,  for  they  muft  have  liberty  to  run  in 
fearch  of  then-  Food,  which  they  find  for  the 
moil  part  in  moifl:  places,  near  Springs  5  for  I 
have  often  taken  both  the  Woodcock  and  the 
Snipe  with  fuch  Snares  as  are  made  for  Larks, 
by  laying  them  in  the  Night  on  the  Bank  of 
.Rivulets,  or  watery  Trenches  near  Wood.^? 


N  0  V  B  M^. 


Director. 


173 


NOl^E  MB  E  R. 

Heafants  areflillin  feafon,  and  are  now 
chiefly  roaft^d,  for  they  are  not  fo  fre- 
quently boiled,  till  about  April,  and 
then  only  the  Hens  when  they  are  full 
of  Eggs  5  biK  that,  I  think,  is  too  deftroying  a 
way.    The  boiled  Phcafants  are  generally  dref^ 
fed  with  Oyfer-Sauce,  or  Egg-Sauce,  but  the 
roafted  are  either  larded  on  the  Breaft  with  fine 
Bacon   Fat,   or  elfc  roafted  and  ftrew'd  with 
Crumbs  of  Bread :  thefe,  (ays  xh^Siiffolk  Gentle- 
man, who  fent  me  the  foregoing  Method  of  or- 
dering the  Woodcock  and  Snipe,   fnould  be 
ferved  with  the  fame  Sauces  that  are  ufed  for 
Partridges.     The  Sauces  in  his  Diredions  are 
within  a  trifle  the  fame  as  thofe  I  have  already 
fet  down  in  September  for  Partridges  or  Quails, 
fo  that  I  fhall  not  repeat  them  here. 

The  Truffle,  which  I  have  treated  of  at  large 
as  to  its  manner  of  Growth  and  Seafon  of  Ma^ 
turity,  in  my  Gentleman  and  F armef  s  Month-^ 
ly  T)ireCior,  affords  fuch  Variety  of  agreeable 
Difhes,  that  1  have  taken  care  to  fead  to  a 
curious  Gentleman  abroad  for  the  Receipt  how 
to  drels  it ;  They  are  very  plenty  in  our  Woods 

in 


174  l^he  Country  Ladfs 

in  England^  as  I  underftand  by  fcveral  who 
have  found  them  this  Summer  by  my  Dircdions, 
and  1  believe  will  be  much  more  fo,  fmce  fe- 
veral  curious  Gentlemen  have  followed  my 
Advice  in  propagating  them.  It  is  now,  as 
well  as  in  the  two  preceding  Months,  that  wc 
may  find  them  of  a  fine  Flavour  5  but  they 
being  fomething  more  in  perfcdion  in  this 
Month  than  in  the  others,  I  think  it  the  pro- 
pereft  to  give  the  Methods  of  ordering  them 
for  the  Tabic  in  this  place  :  The  firft  manner 
is  to  broil  them. 

To  broil  Truffles. 

THE  Truffle  being  brought  in  frcfli,  wafh 
it  well,  and  cut  off  the  rough  Coat  on 
theoutfide  :  fomc  of  thefc  will  be  as  large  as 
one's  Fift,  and  they  are  the  bcft  for  this  pur- 
pofej  but  let  them  be  of  any  fize,  as  foon  as 
the  Coat  is  off,  cut  them  through  a  little  more 
than  half-way,  and  put  Pepper  and  Salt  into 
the  opening,  and  clofc  it  again ;  then  wrap 
up  each  Truffle  in  wet  Paper  clofe,  and  broil 
them  over  a  gentle  Fire  of  Wood-Embers  till 
you  judge  they  are  enough,  which  will  be  as 
foon  as  they  are  very  hot  quite  titrough  5  Jet 
them  be  turned  as  occafion  requires,  that  they 
may  be  all  equally  done,  and  then  ferve  them 
to  the  Table  in  a  folded  Napkin.  This  is  a 
very  good  way  of  eating  them,  but  the  other 
1  have  more  frequently  eaten. 


3 


To 


^^. 


Director.  175 

To  flew  Truffles  in  Wine, 

THE  Truffles  muft  be  peei'd  from  the 
rough  Coat  on  the  outfidc,  and  wcll- 
wafh'd  i  then  cut  your  Truffles  into  Slices, 
and  flew  them  in  White-wine,  or  Claret, 
which  you  pieafe,  with  Salt,  Pepper,  and  a 
Bay-leaf;  or  in  the  lieu  of  that,  feme  Ja- 
maica Pepper,  and  ferve  them.  White-wine 
for  this  ufe  is  generally  preferred. 

To  ftew  Truffles  after  another  manner . 

/^^  Ather  Truffles,  peel  them  and  wafh  them, 
^^  and  then  cut  them  in  Slices ;  after  which 
fry  them  a  little  in  a  Stew-pan,  with  either  But- 
ter or  Hog's-Lard,  and  a  little  Wheat-Flower  5 
then  take  them  out  and  drain  them,  and  put 
them  again  in  a  Stew-pan  with  Gravey,  a  bunch 
of  Sweet-Herbs,  fome  Salt,  Pepper,  and  Nut- 
meg grated  \  and  when  they  have  (Icwcd  a 
little  in  this,  ftrain  the  Liquor,  and  difh  them 
for  the  Table,  garnifhed  with  Slices  of  Lem- 
mon.  Befides  this  way,  they  may  be  ufcd  in 
the  fame  manner  as  Fowls  are  ftewcd  or  fri- 
caffeed,  with  brown  or  white  Sauces,  after 
they  have  been  foften'd  a  little  by  boiling. 

While  I  am  fpeaking  of  the  Truffle,  I  may 
well  enough  mention  the  Receipts  for  the 
management  of  the  Morille.  Altho'the  Mo- 
rilie  grows  \w  April:,  which  is  the  only  time 
when  it  may  be  gathered  frefh,  yet  one  may 
drefs  the  dry'd  ones  now,  by  firft  foftening 
them  in  warm  Water  and  Salt  for  three  or 

four 


176  The  Country  Lady's 

four  Minutes  5  bur,  as  obferv'd  before,  they 
are  beftfrcih  gather'd.  And  again,  I  chufe  to 
put  the  Receipts  for  their  Management  in  this 
place,  becaufe  they  are  fo  near  a-kin  to  the 
Truffle.  In  the  firfl:  place,  I  fliali  fpcak  of 
drying  them,  which  I  have  done  in  England y 
after  the  foliowing  manner  :  Gather,  and  wafh 
them,  and  when  they  are  well  drained,  then 
■lay  them  in  a  Difn,  and  dry  them  by  degrees 
in  a  gentle  Oven  5  and  when  they  are  through-, 
jy  dry,  keep  them  in  a  dry  place,  and  in  a 
cover'd  earthen  glazed  Potj  but  when  they  are 
frcfh,  order  them  according  to  the  following; 
Receipts.  And  I  am  the  more  ready  to  give 
thefe  to  the  Publick,  becaufe  all  fuch  who 
know  the  niceft  way  of  eating,  may  not  be 
difappointed  in  their  Travels  thro'  Englandy 
a/d  denied  at  the  Inns  fuch  things  as  perhaps 
are  as  agreeable  in  that  way,  as  any  in  the 
Country.  Particularly  I  remember  at  New- 
berry, or  Spinhamlandy  in  the  publick  Road  to 
Batby  I  was  at  the  moil  publick  and  noted  Inn 
?n  that  Ivoad,  and  had  got  fome  very  good 
Mufhrooms,  and  the  People  there  were  of  o- 
pinion  that  they  were  poifonous,  or  elfe  did 
iiot  know  how  to  drefs  them,  and  by  no 
means  they  would  fend  them  to  the  Table. 
I  fay,  if  fach  miftakes  can  be  made  in  a  place 
where  fo  many  People  of  fafhion  travel  con- 
tinually, it  is  not  likely  that  Morilles  or  Truf- 
fles will  be  received  with  more  favour  than 
my  Mullirooms  5  and  I  believe  that  fome  of 
thcgveatcft  Niceties  of  our  Country  may  ever 

remain 


Director.  177 

remain    unknown,   without  a  Work  of  this 
nature,  which  I  have  pick'd  up  inch  by  inch, 
'viz,  in  my  Travels.     And  befidcs,  confidcr- 
ing     the   ftrange    difagrceable    Compofitions 
which  one  meets  with  in  fome  of  our  Tra- 
vels,  as  Sugar  with  a  pickled  Trout,  and  ma- 
ny more  as  ridiculous;  I  think  this  little  Piece 
of  Work  not  unworthy    my  Time.     Again, 
there  are  many  Families  in  England  which 
have  plenty   about  them,  and  do  not  know 
what  to  do  with  it  5  and  therefore  I  think  this 
the  more  neceffary.     But  to  come  to  my  point, 
the  Morille  may  be  drefs'd  when  it  is  either 
frcfh  or  blanch'd  in  warm  Water,  according  to 
the   following   Receipts,  which  I    had  from 
France, 

I. 
To  make  a  Ragout  of  Morilles.         '^ 

'T^H  E  Morilles  being  frefh  gathered,  take  off 
-^     the  Roots,  and  wafh  them,  in  many  Wa- 
ters, for  the  Wrinkles  in  their  Tops  harbour  a 
great  deal  of  Dirt  and  Sand  5  then  flit  them 
lengthways,  and  fry   them  a  little  in  a  Stew- 
pan,  with  Butter  or  Hogs-Lard,  letting  either 
be  very  hot  when  you  put  in  the   Morilles ; 
then  let  them  drain,  and  put  them  in  afrefli 
Stew-pan  with  Gravey,  in  which  fnred  fome 
Parfley  and  Cherville  very  fmall,  with  a  young 
Onion,  fome  Salt,  and  a  little   Nutmeg :  lee 
thefe  flew  gently,  and  fend  them  to  the  Table 
garnifh'd  with  flices  of  Lemmon,or  they  may  be 
fent  to  the  Table  in  Cream,  as  we  have  already 

men- 


178  The  Country  Ladfs 

mentioned  concerning  other  things  in  the  fame 

manner. 

To  fry  the  Mor tiles. 
Rcpare  your  Morillcs  asdireded  in  the  for-  -^ 


mer  Receipt,  and  boil  them  in  a  little 
Gravey  gently  5  when  they  begin  to  be  tender, 
rake  them  out  of  the  Liquor,  and  flower  them 
very  well,  then  fry  them  in  HogVLard  : 
when  they  are  thus  prepared,  make  a  Sauce  for 
them  of  the  Liquor  or  Gravey  the  Morilles 
were  ftew'd  in,  feafon'd  with  Salt,  Nutmeg  and 
a  little  Juice  of  Lemmon. 

The  following  Diredions  I  had  from  aGen- 
tlcnic^n  in  Suffolk.  The  Turkey  is  now  in 
good  Seafon,  and  may  be  either  boiled  or 
roafted  5  when  it  is  boiled,  it  is  moft  common- 
ly fcrved  with  Oyfter-Sauce,  and  when  it  is 
dcfigned  for  roafting,  it  may  be  larded  with 
line  Fat  of  Bacon  on  the  Breaft,  or  elfe  well 
ilrcw'd  with  Crumbs  of  Bread,  having  firft 
made  a  Farce  to  fill  the  Hollow  of  the  Neck, 
where  the  Crop  lay  i  this  Farce  may  be  made 
of  grated  Bread,  Spice,  Salt,  buttered  Eggs,  and 
Ibme  fweet  Herbs  powdered,  the  whole  well 
mix'd  and  bound  with  the  Yolk  of  a  raw 
Ego;  5  or  the  Liver  of  a  Fowl  may  be  boiled 
and  chop'd  fmall  and  put  into  it.  The  Receipt 
as  I  receiv'd  it  direfts  Beef- Suet  chop'd  fmall 
inftead  of  butter'd  Eggs  5  but  Mr.  John  Hughs, 
a  noted  Cook  in  LoruioUy  tells  me  that  Suet 
fhould  be  avoided  in  thefe  Farces,  bccaufc  it  is 

apt 


Director.  379 

apt  to  cool  too  foon,  and  offend  the  Roof  of 
the  Mouth,  and  therefore  dh-eds  butrer'd 
Eggs  in  their  dead.  As  for  the  Sauce  for  the 
roafted  Turkey,  it  muft  be  made  with  Gravey, 
a  Bunch  of  fwcet  Herbs,  fome  Lemmon-pcel, 
a  Shallot  or  two,  and  feme  whole  Pepper  and 
All- (pice  boiled  together  and  fu-ained. 

Concerning   the  Lark,    which   is  now  in 
Seafon,  the  abovemention'd  Gentleman  gives 
the  following  Directions :  Let    the  Larks  be 
pick'd  only    and   not  gutted,   trufs  the  Legs, 
with  a  Leaf  of  red  Sage  to  every  Lark  between 
the  Joints  of  the  Legs  5   then  with  a  Feather, 
dip'd  in  the  Yolk  of  an  Egg  beaten,  wafh  the 
Body  of  every  Lark,  and  cover  it  well  with 
Crumbs  of  Bread ;  after  which,  cut  fome  thin 
Slices  of  fat  Bacon,  about  three  Inches  long, 
and  an  Inch  broad,  and  lay  the  Larks  in  a  row, 
fide  to  fide,  with  a  piece  of  this  Bacon  between 
every  two  Larks  5   then  have  fmall  Spits  about 
ten  Inches  long,    and  pafs  the  Spits  thro*  the 
Sides  of  the  Larks  and  the  Bacon,   fo  that  you 
have  half  a  dozen  Larks  upon  each  Spit,  obler- 
ving  to  have  a  piece  of  Bacon  on  both  the  out- 
fides  of  the  half  dozen  Larks  ,•  bade  thefe  well 
while  they  are  roafting,  and  for  the  Sauce  for 
them,   fry  fome  grated  Bread  crifp  in  Butter, 
and  fet  them  to  drain  before  the  Fire,  that  they 
may  harden  s  ferve  thefe  under  the  Larks  when 
you  fend  them  to  Table,    and  garnifh  w^ith 
Slices  of  Lemmon.  Some  have  their  Lark-Spits 
made  of  Silver,  and  fcrve  their  Larks  upon  the 

Spits 


ISO  The  Country  Lad/s 

Spits  to  the  Table,  by  which  means  they  keep 
hot  the  longer  :  you  may  eat  them  with  Juice 
of  Lemmon  with  the  fiy'd  Crumbs,  but  lomc 
like  fuch  Gravey- Sauce  with  them  as  is  dired- 
ed  for  the  roallcd  Turkey.  Tho'  the  Guts  are 
left  in  the  Larks,  yet  they  arc  not  to  be 
eaten. 

In  my  Travels  I  obferved  a  kind  of  Soup, 
which  was  very  frequently  ufed  abroad,  and 
quickly  ready,  that  was  very  taking  to  moft 
Travellers  who  delighted  in  favoury  Difhcs, 
which  the  People  abroad  call  Soup  a  I'Tvrogne, 
It  is  made  as  follows. 

TAKE  half  a  fcore  Onions,  peel  them, 
and  cut  them  in  fmall  Pieces  into  a  Stew- 
pan,  and  fry  them  brown  with  Butter,  and  a 
little  Pepper  and  Salt  j  and  when  they  arc 
enough,  pour  fuch  a  quantity  of  Water  upon 
them  as  you  think  proper  to  make  a  Soup  of 
them  j  then  let  thefe  boil  together,  and  thick- 
en it  with  as  many  Eggs  as  are  neceilary,  keep- 
ing it  ftirring  to  prevent  the  Eggs  from  Curd- 
line:.  Some  add  to  this  a  lar^re  Glafs  of  White- 
wine,  which  I  think  makes  it  better  rafted  than 
'tis  without  it :  this  is  ferved  with  a  French 
Role  in  the  middle.  At  the  fame  time  I  met 
with  the  following  Receipt  for  Beef  j^- la- 
mode,  which  is  as  good  as  any  I  have  eaten. 


To 


Director;  t8i 

To  make  Beef  AA^modc. 

TA  K  E  a  flefliy  piece  of  Beef,  without  Fat, 
and  beat  it  well  with  a  Rolling-pin,  then 
lard  it  with  pretty  large  pieces  of  Bacon-Fat, 
and  if  you  pleafe  put  over  the  Fire  a  little  to  fry 
till  the  outfide  is  brown,  and  then  put  it  to 
ftew  in  a  deep  Stew-pan,  or  giaz'd  Earthen- 
Veffel,  with  Salt,  Pepper,  Bay-Leaves  or  Ja- 
maica Pepper,  fome  Lemmon-Peel,  half  a  do- 
zen large  Mufhrooms,  two  Gloves  of  Garlick, 
or  four  or  five  Cloves  of  Shallot,  half  a  Pint 
of  Wine,  and  a  Pint  of  Water  j  cover  it  clofe, 
and  let  it  ftew  gently  till  it  is  tender  j  when  it 
is  ciiough,  fry  fome  Flower  in  Hog'Aard,  and 
add  to  it,  with  fomeLemmon-Juice,  or  a  little 
Verjuice.  This  is  very  good  hot,  but  is  for 
the  moft  part  eaten  cold,  cut  in  Slices  of  about 
half  an  Inch  thick. 


ii  J)E^ 


182  Hke  Country  Ladfs 


DECEMBER. 


O  W  is  the  principal  Seafon  for  killing 
of  Hogs,  as  well  for  Pork  as  for  Bacon, 
and  likewife  for  Brawn.  I  have  al- 
ready in  my  other  Works  given  Di- 
rections for  making  of  pickled  Pork  and  Ba- 
con 5  fo  that  I  fhall  fay  little  of  it  in  this 
place,  but  give  the  Receipts  for  ordering  fomc 
particular  parts  of  Hogs.  The  following  Re- 
ceipt I  received  from  France,  concerning  the 
preparing  of  the  Jole  of  a  wild  Boar,  and  have 
had  it  try'd  in  Englarkd  with  the  Head  of  a 
common  Hog ;  and  I  find  little  difference, 
cfpecially  if  the  Hog  has  been  fed  with  Acorns. 

To  drefs  a  Hog's  Heady  in  imitation  of  the 
Jole  of  a  wild  Boar. 

TA  K  E  a  Hog's  Head  and  burn  it  well  all 
over  upon  a  clear  Fire,  till  all  the  Hair  is 
burnt  to  the  Skin  i  then  take  a  piece  of  Brick, 
and  rub  the  Head  all  over  as  hard  as  poffible, 
to  grind  off  the  Stumps  of  the  Briftles,  andfi- 
nifh  the  whole  with  your  Knife,  and  then  clean 
the  Head  very  well  5  ^'hen  this  is  done,  you 

niuft 


Director.  183 

iDuft  takeout  all  the  Bones,  opening  the  Head 
in   the  under  Part,    and   beginning  with  the 
underJaw-Bones  and  the  Muzzle  5  then  cleave 
the  Head,  leaving  only  the  Skin  over  the  Skull 
to  hold  it  together  :  take  out  the  Tongue  and 
Ithe  Brains.    When  thus  you  have  taken  away 
all  the  Bones,  ftab  the  Flelh  with  the  Point  of 
your  Knife  in  many  places  on  the  infide,  with- 
out wounding  the  Skin,   and  put  Salt  into  e- 
very  Incifion,  then  join  the  Head  together,  and 
tie  it  well  together  with  Packthread,  and  thea 
wrapping  it  up  in  a  Napkin,  put  it  in  a  Kettle, 
with  a  large  Quantity  of  Water,  a  large  Bunch 
©f  all  kinds  of  fweet  Herbs,  a  little  Coriander 
and  Anife-Seeds,   two  or   three  Bay  Leaves, 
fome  Cloves,  and  two  or  three  Nutmegs  cut 
in  pieces,  and  fome  Salt,  if  you  think  there  is 
any  wanting  5    add  likewife  two  or  three  large 
Onions  anda  SprigortwoofRofemary.  When 
this  has  boiled  half  enough,  pour  in  a  Bottle  of 
Wine,  and  let  it  boil  three  or  four  Hours  Ion- 
gcr  till  'tis  tender  s  for  it  will  not  be  fo  under 
feven  or  eight  Hours  boiling,  if  the  Hog  be 
large;  and  if  it  is  a  Boar's  Head,  that  has  been 
put  up  for  Brawn,   it  will  take  more  time  to 
boil.     Being  boiled  enough,  let  it  cool  in  the 
jLiquor,  and  then  take  it  out  and  untie  it,  and 
|lay  it  in  a  Difli  to  be  carry 'd  cold  to  the  Table, 
either  whole  or  in  Slices.  If  you  will,  you  may 
fait  it  three  or  fouij^days  before  you  hmiit. 


N  z  n 


X84  The  Country  Ladfs 

To  make  Saufages^  from  Lady  M. 

np  AKE  the  Fkfli  of  a  Leg  of  Pork,  and 
-■-     mince  it  fmall,  and  to  every  Pound  of 
the  Plelh  minced,  mince  about  a  quarter  of  a 
Pound  of  the  hard  Fat  of  the  Hog  5  then  beat 
fomc  Jamaica  FcfptiL  very  fine,  and  mix  with 
it  fome  Pepper  and  Salt,  with  a  little  Sweet- 
Marjoram  powder'd,  and  fome  Leaves  of  red 
Sage  minced  very  fmall  i    mix  all  thefe  very 
well,  and  if  you  fill  them  into  Guts,  either 
of  Hogs  or  Sheep,  beat  two  or  three  Yolks  of 
Eggs  and  mix  with  them,  taking  care  not  to 
fill  the  Guts  too  full,  left  they  burft  when  you 
broil  or  fry  them  :  but  if  you  defign  them  to 
be  eaten  without  putting  them  in  Guts,  then 
put  no  Eggs  to  them,  but  beat  the  Flefh  and 
the  Fat  in  a  Stone  Mortar,  and  work  the  Spice 
and  Herbs  well  into  it  with  your  hands,    fo 
that  it  be  well  mix'd,  and  keep  it  in  a  Mafs 
to  ufe  at  your  pleafure,  breaking  off  Pieces, 
and  rolling  them  in  your  hands,   and  then 
flowering  them  well  before  you  fry  them.     If 
you  ufe  them  in  Guts,  take  fpecial  care  that 
the  Guts  are  well  clean'd,  and  lie  fome  time 
in  a  little  warm  White-wine  and  Spice  before 
you  ufe  them ;  if  any  Herb  happens  to  be  dif- 
agreeable  in  this  Mixture,  it  may  be  left  out, 
or  others  added  at  pleafure. 

'The  following  Receipt  to  makcSaufages  of 
Fifh  for  Faft-Days,  I  had  at  BruxelleSj  which 
I  have  experienced  to  be  very  good. 

To 


Director.  185 

To  make  Saufages  of  Fijh, 

TAKE  the  Flefh  c^f   Eels,  or  of  Tench, 
and  to  either  of  thefc  put  foine  of  the 
Elefh  of  frefh  Cod,  or  of  Pike  or  Jack,  chop 
thefe  well  together  with  Parfley,  and  a  few 
fmall  Onions  5  fcafon  thef^  with  a  little  Salt, 
Pepper,  Cloves  in  Powder,  X  little  grated  Nut- 
meg, and,  if  you  will,  a  little  powder'd  Gin- 
ger, with  fome  Thyme,  Sweet-Marjoram,    a 
little  Bay-Leaf^  all  dry'd  and  powdered  5  and 
mix  all  thefe  well  together  with  a  little  Butter. 
Then  beat  the  Bones  of  the  Fifli  in  a  Mortar, 
pouring  in  among  them  while  they  are  beat- 
ing, a  Glafs  or  two  of  Claret,  which  mufl  af- 
terwards be  poured  upon  the  above  Mixture ; 
then  take  the  Guts  of  a  Calf  well  wafh*d  and 
cleared  of  the  Fat,  for  in  that  condition  I  find 
there  is  no  fcruple  to  ufe  them  abroad  :  being 
well  difcharged  of  the  Fat,  fill    thefc  Skins 
with  your  Mixture  of  Fifh,  cJ^r.  tying  them  ac 
both  ends,    and    lay  them    for  twenty  four 
Hours  in  a  Pickle  of  Wme  and  Salt  5  and  ta- 
king them  out  from  thence,   hang  them   in 
a  Chimney  where  they  may  be  well  fmoak'd 
with  a  Wood-Fire,  or  burning  Saw-dufi:  for 
twenty-four  hours,    or  longer  if  you  plcate, 
provided  you  have  allowed  Salt  and  Spices  e- 
nough.     When  you   would  ufe  them,    boii 
them  gently  in  White-wine,  with  a  Bunch  of 
Sweet  Herbs  5    or  in  Water,   with  one  third 
part  White-wine,   and  Sweet-Herbs.     Theib 
arc  ferved  cold  at  the  Table,  and  eat  very  well. 

The 


1 86  The  Country  Ladfs 

The  Boars  that  were  put  up  for  Brawn, 
are  now  fit  to  kill.  It  is  to  be  obferv'd,  that 
what  is  ufed  for  Brawn,  is  the  Flitches  on- 
ly, without  the  Legs,  and  they  niuft  have  the 
Bones  taken  out,  and  then  fprinkled  with 
Salt,  and  lay'd  in  a  Tray,  or  fome  other  thing, 
to  drain  off  the  Blood  j  when  this  is  done, 
fait  it  a  little,  and  roll  it  up  as  hard  as  pot 
fible,  fo  that  the  length  of  the  Collar  of 
Brawn  be  as  much  as  one  fide  of  the  Boar 
wiU  bear,  and  to  be,  when  it  is  rolled  up, 
about  nine  or  ten  Inches  diameter.  When  you 
have  rolled  up  your  Collar  as  clofe  as  you 
can,  tye  it  with  Linnen  Tape,  as  tight  as  pof- 
fible,  an-d  then  prepare  a  Cauldron  with  a  large 
Quantity  of  Water  to  boil  it :  In  this  boil 
your  Bravv^n  till  it  is  tender  enough  for  a  Straw 
topafsinto  it,  and  then  let  it  cool  5  and  when 
it  is  quite  cold,  put  it  in  the  following  Pickle. 
Put  to  every  Gallon  of  Water  a  handful  or 
two  of  Salt,  and  as  much  Wheat-Bran  ;  boil 
them  well  together,  and  then  ftrain  the  Liquor 
as  clear  as  you  can  from  the  Brawn,  and  let  it 
ftand  till  it  is  quite  cold,  at  which  time  put 
your  Bravs^n  in  it  5  but  this  Pickle  muft  be  re- 
newed every  three  Weeks.  Some  put  half 
fmall  Beer  and  half  Water  ;  but  then  the 
fmall  Beer  fhould  be  brewed  with  pale  Malt : 
but  I  think  the  firft  Pickle  is  the  beft.  Note, 
The  fame  Boar's  Head  being  well  cleaned, 
may  be  boiled  and  pickled  like  the  Brawn,  and 
is  asmuchcftcera'd. 

This 


Director.  187 

This  is  a  good  Seafon  to  make  what  they 
call  Hung-Beef:  The  way  of  doing  it,  is,  to 
take  the  thin  Pieces  of  the  Bcefi  ^nd  fairing 
them  with  Salt-Petre  about  two  Ounces  to  a 
Pound  of  common  Salt,  and  rubbing  it  well 
into  the  Meat,  dry  it  in  a.  Chimney  with 
Wood  Smoke.  When  this  is  throughly  cured, 
it  will  be  red  quite  through,  which  one  may 
try  by  cutting  5  for  if  there  is  any  of  the  Flefh 
green,  it  is  not  fmoked  enough.  It  is,  in  my 
opinion,  better  than  any  Bacon  to  be  boiled 
and  eaten  hot. 

This  is  what  Ifhall  fay,  concerning  the  ufe 
of  fuch  things  as  are  generally  found    about  a 
Gentleman's  Country- Seat,  or  about  a  Farm, 
which  I  think    will  be  very  ufeful,  the'  a  lit- 
tle out  of  the  common  Road  5  and  fo  I  fnall 
make  no  Apology  for  publiihing  fuch  Receipts 
as  I  am  fure  are  good.     If  1  do  not  ufe  pro- 
per Terms  in  fome  of  my  Receipts  in  Cookery, 
I  have  at  lead  put  my  Receipts  into  Rich  a  Me- 
thod, as  I  fuppofe  will  make  them  intelligible, 
and  what  any  one  may  underftand  ;  But  1  muft 
take  notice  before  I  conclude,  that  the  mean- 
ing of  publifhing  this,  is  to  inftrud  thofe  who 
may  not  have  had  opportunity   of  obferving 
or  colleding  fo  much  as  I  have  done,  and  not 
any  way  pretending  to  inform  thofe  who  are 
full  enough   of  Knowledge    already.     How- 
ever, I  hope  my  Readers  will    be  contented 
with  what  I  have  here  given  them,  and  meet 
with  fomething  that  is  New  and  Ufcful. 
FINIS. 


I 


THE 


Country  Houfewife 


AND 

LADY'S  DIRECTOR, 

1    N     T   H    E 

Management  of  a  House,  and  the 
Delights  and  Profits  of  a  Farm. 

PART     11. 

INCLUDING 

A  great  Variety  of  the  moft  curious  Receipts  for 
Dreffing  all  the  Sorts  of  Flefli,  Fifli,  Fowl^ 
Fruit  and  Herbs^  which  are  the  Produdions 
of  a  Farm,  or  from  any  Foreign  Parts* 

Contained  in  LETTERS,  and  taken  from  the 
Performances  of  the  moft  polite  Proficients  in 
moft  Parts  of  EUROPE. 

Now  pubiifli'd  for  the  Good  of   the    P  U  B  L  I  C  Ks 

By   R.  B  R  A  D  L  E  Y, 

Profejfor  of  Botany  in  the  Univerfity  of  Carnbridge, 

and  F.  R,  S, 


To   which    is    Added> 

From  a   Poulterer  in    St.  ^/i/w^j'j-Market,    the    Manner    of 

Trufling  all  Sorts  of  Poultry. 

Adorn'd  with  CUTS: 

Shewing,  how  every  FOWL,  Wild  or  Taroe,  ought  to  be  pre= 
pared  for  the  Spitj    and  likewife  any  kind  of  Game. 

LONDON: 

Printed  for  D.  Browne,  at  the  Black-Sn>an  without  Temple-Ban 
and  T.  Woodman,  in  Rujfel-Street,  Covent-Garden,   M.dccxxxii. 
(Price   2$.  6({,} 


T   O 

?>\r  Hans  Shane,  Bart 

PRESIDENT 

O  F    T  H  E 

ROYAL-SOCIETY. 

This  Piece  of  Oeconomy,  or  Ma- 
nagement of  the  HousHOLD,  is 
moft  humbly  prefented,  by  His 

Moji  humble  and  moji 

obedient  Servant^ 


R.  BRADLEY3 


A  2 


( V ) 


THE 

INTRODUCTION. 


la&gO  g^^^ma 


^^HERE  is  nothing  induces 
me  fo  much,  to  publifh  this 
Second  Part  of  Diredlions  to 
prepare  the  Things  about  a  Farm  orFa- 
mily,  as  the  Encouragement  my  firft 
Volume,  in  this  Way,  has  met  with 
in  the  World ;  which  being  now  in 
the  fixth  Edition,  has  brought  me 
many  Receipts,  from  the  Curious, 
which  would  be  detrimental  to  the 
Publick  if  I  did  not  offer  them  to  the 
World.  I  muft  acknowledge  my 
Gratitude,  in  this  Piece,  to  feveral 
Perfbns  of  Diftindlion,  and  good 
Oeconomy,  who  have  favoured  me 
with  their  Afliftance ;  and,  as  far  as 
their  Leave  would  fuffer  me,  I  have 

given 


vi    7he  Introduction. 

given  their  Names  or  Signatures* 
Moft  of  the  Receipts  I  have  been 
Witnefs  to,  at  fome  Meal  or  other 
with  them,  or  elfe  in  PubHck  Places 
have  purchas'd ;  for  I  always  thought 
th^t  there  was  more  fatisfa£lion  in 
eating  clean  and  well,  if  one  had 
good  Provifions  in  a  Place,  than  to 
have  fuch  Provifions  good,  and 
ipoiled  in  their  Management. 

With  the  many  Noblemen  I  am 
converfant  with,  and  in  the  large 
Traft  of  Ground  I  have  paffed  over, 
St. may  not  be  furprizing,  that  I  have 
colleded  fo  great  a  variety  of  Things 
in  this  way;  and  there  is  no  greater 
Happinefs  I  enjoy,  than  to  commu- 
nicate to  the  World,  what  I  love 
mylelf :  but  as  the  Proverb  fays,  there 
is  no  difputing  about  l^ajies^  fo  that 
every  one  has  ftill  the  Liberty  of 
chooling  or  re<aifying  any  thing  as 

their 


The  Introduction,    vii 

their  Palate  directs,  when  they  have 
a  good  Foundation   to  go  upon. 

I  think,  if  thefe  Receipts  had 
lain  ftill  in  my  Cabinet,  they  might 
after  my  death  have  been  diftribu- 
ted  to  the  World  in  a  w^rong  Senfe ; 
but  as  I  have  particularly  been  pre- 
fent  amongft  many  of  them,  I  have 
taken  the  meaning  of  them  in  Wri- 
ting; or  if  I  had  left  them  behind  me, 
they  might  have  been  loft,  which,  I 
think,  are  much  too  good  to  be 
bury'd  in  Oblivion. 


Lately  Tublij^ed^ 

T^  H  E  Coumry  Gentleman  and  Farme/s  Month' 
ly  DireBor,  Containing  neceffary  Inftruc- 
tions  for  the  Management  and  Improvement  of 
a  Farm,  in  every  Month  of  the  Year.  Where- 
in is  direded  the  Times  and  Seafons  proper 
for  Ploughing  and  Sowing  of  all  Sorts  of  Corn 
for  Grain  S  the  Planting  and  Managing  of  Hops^ 
Liquorice,  Madder,  Saffron,  and  fuch  other 
Crops  as  ftand  more  than  one  Year  on  the 
Ground.  The  Times  of  Planting  and  Cutting 
of  Coppice  or  Springs  of  Wood,  and  Felling 
of  Timber,  the  Breeding  and  Feeding  of  Poul- 
try, Rabbits,  Fifh,  Swine,  and  all  forts  of 
CatteK  With  feveral  Particulars  relating  to  the 
Improvement  of  Bees,  never  before  made  pub- 
lick.  By  R.  Bradley,  Profeffor  of  Botany  in  the 
Univerfity  of  Cambridge,  and  F,  R.  S,  The  fixth 
Edition.  With  large  Additions  and  Improve- 
ments. Printed  for  £>.  Browne, at  the  Black-Swan 
^vithout  Temple-Bar ;  and  T".  Woodmany  in  Rujfel- 
Street^  Covem-Garden. 


( ' ) 


THE 

Country  Lady's 

DIRECTOR. 

Part  IL 


INCH  I  have  publifh'd  the  Rc-^ 
ceipts  I  gathered  together,  with 
regard  to  the  feveral  Preparations 
of  the  Produds  of  a  Farm,  for 
the  Table  5  entitled.  The  Lady's  Months 
ly  Tiire£ioTy  &c.  (now  in  its  fixth  Edition  :) 
I  have  received  a  great  number  of  Letters 
"relating  to  many  Improvements  that  may 
be  made  to  it,  and  am  defired  to  publiHi 
them,  in  order  to  render  my  firft  Volume 
more  compleat.  And,  as  I  find  they  will  be 

B  of 


2  'The  Country  Ladys 

of  public  Ufe,  I  fhall  begin  with  one  con- 
cerning the  Prefervation  of  Plefh,  Fowls 
and  Fifh  from  Putrefadion,  or   Stinking  5 
which  is  too  often  the  Cafe,  in  Summer- 
time, when    it    is  rare  to  find  any  fweet 
Morfels,    although    they    have   undergone 
the  Difcipline  of  Salting.    As  for  the  com- 
mon Notion,  that  Women  cannot  lay  Meat 
in  Salt,  equally  with  fuccefs,  at  all  Times, 
it  is  falfe  i    it  is  the  Manner  of  doing  it, 
and  not  the  ftate  of  the  Women  who  han- 
dle it,  that  makes  it  right  5  there  muft  be  a 
right  way  of  Management  to  preferve  it, 
and  render  it  fit  for  the  Palate,  as  the  fol- 
lowing Letter  informs  us. 

To  Mr.  Bradley, 

S  T  R, 

I  have  not  only  read  your  Book,  caird? 
The  Lady's  Monthly  l^ireBory  but 
have  tafted  many  elegant  Difhes  of  Meat, 
ordered  by  the  Receipts  in  it  5  but  I  think, 
as  you  are  a  philolbphical  Gentleman,  you 
fhould  have  taken  a  little  more  Notice  of 
the  prefervation  of  Flefh  from  Putrefaftion  : 
For  in  many  places  I  have  fet  down  to  a 
Dinner  which  has  fent  me  out  of  the  Room 
by  the  very  fmell  of  it  5  even,  though  I  am 
fo  much  of  the  French  Tafle,  that  I  can 
bear  the  Fumette.   The  Husband,  in  this 

Cafe, 


Part  II.         Director,  3 

Cafe,  has  blamed  his  Wife  j  and  the  Wife 
has  taken  the  opportunity  of  whifpering 
to  her  Husband,  that  the  Maid  was  not  in 
right  Sorts  when  ihe  falted  the  Meat :  but 
I  am  fure,  I  fhall  fet  you  to  rights  in  that 
Point. 
I  have  taken  pains  in  my  Family,  which  con- 
fifts  of  thirty  Perfons,  to  have  my  Wife  order 
the  Experiment  to  be  made,  and  I  amfatisfied 
from  her  Arguments,  that  there  is  nothing  in 
the  Notion  above.  But  now  to  the  pur- 
pofe.  Let  your  Flefh-Meat  be  frefh,  and 
take  all  the  bleeding  Arteries  from  it,  then 
fprinkle  it  with  common  Salt,  and  let  it 
lie  in  the  Air  for  twelve  Hours  5  but  fait  the 
Places,  where  the  Arteries  were,  more  par- 
ticularly: then  wipe  your  Meat  dry,  and 
make  fome  Salt  very  hot,  over  the  Fire, 
then  rub  in  the  Salt  very  well,  and  lay  the 
Pieces  of  falted  Meat  one  upon  another, 
and  it  will  keep  for  feveral  Months. 

Or  with  common  Salt,  rub  the  feveral 
Pieces  of  Meat  briskly  with  it,  after  the 
Blood  is  out,  and  efpecially  in  the  hollow 
Places  lay  Salt  enough.  So  will  you  be 
fure  to  have  your  Meat  fweet,  either  Beef 
or  Pork. 


E  %  To 


4  2^^  Country  Ladys 

To  fend  Venifon  Sweet  in  hot  Weather. 

GIVE  it  a  little  Salt,  and  have  the 
Haunches  parted,  taking  out  the 
Marrow  and  all  the  Veins,  as  they  are 
called,  that  bleed ;  and  then  wipe  all  of  it 
quite  dry  after  you  have  walh'd  it  with 
Vinegar,  and  then  powder  it  with  Pepper, 
and  in  an  open  Basket  fend  it  up  to  Lon-- 
don* 

Sometimes  Venifon  (meaning  a  Buck) 
comes  up  to  London^  not  fit  for  the  Table  j 
to  prevent  which,  order  the  Keeper,  when 
he  has  killed  it,  to  ftrew  three  or  four 
Pounds  of  Pepper,  beaten  fine,  upon  it ; 
and  efpecially  upon  the  Neck  Parts  of  the 
Sides,  after  he  has  wafh'd  them  with  Vine- 
gar and  dried  them  well. 

But  if  it  ftinks,  when  you  receive  it, 
wafh  it  with  Vinegar,  and  dry  it,  then  pep- 
per it  and  wrap  it  in  a  dry  Cloth,,  bury  it 
in  the  Ground,  three  foot  deep  at  leaft,  and 
in  fixteen  Hours  it  will  be  fweet,  fit  for 
eating  ;  then  wafh  off  the  Pepper  with  Vi- 
negar, and  dry  it  with  a  Cloth,  and  hang  it 
where  the  cool  Air  may  pafs,  and  the  blue 
Flies  cannot  come  at  it.  §litery.  Is  it  not 
ftrange,  that  we  fee  daily  the  Limbs  of 
Horfes  hung  up  in  Trees,  and  they  do  not 
ftink;  but  remain  good  a  long  while  fit  for 

Dogs 


Part  IL       Director.  ^ 

Dogs  Meat  ?  If  any  one  will  fay,  that  Dogs 
all  delight  to  eat  Carrion,  I  muft  deny 
thatj  but  that  every  fort  of  Dog  will  roll 
himfelf  in  Carrion,  when  he  can  find  it,  is 
certain. 

To  fend  Partridges   a  long  way  in  hot 

Weather. 

WHEN  you  have  killed  your  Par- 
tridges, take  out  the  Crop,  and  the 
Artery  which  bleeds  in  the  Neck,  then  fill 
the  Place  with  Pepper  5  and  the  Mouths  of 
the  Fowls  fliould  be  fill'd  with  the  fame, 
for  thefe  Parts  take  a  taint  fooner  than  the 
reft  5  the  Vent  too,  ought  to  be  taken  care 
of,  and  open'd,  and  filled  with  Pepper, 
beaten  grollly.  i\r.5.  This  Pepper  maybe 
always  wafh'd  away  without  leaving  any 
Seafon  or  Flavour  behind  it,  and  is  a  certain 
Antidote  againft  Corruption.  So  the  fame 
may  be  done  with  Pheafants,  and  you 
fhouid  likewife  leave  on  their  Feathers. 

To  keep  an  Hare  a  long  Time. 

AS  foon  as  'tis  kill'd  and  dlfcharged  of 
its  Entrails,  take  care  that  all  the 
Blood  be  dried  away  with  Cloths  about 
the  Liver,  for  there  it  is  apt  to  fettle,  then 
duft  the  Liver  well  with  Pepper  $  and  fill 

B  3  the 


( 


6  H^e  Country  Ladys 

the  Body  with  Nettles,  or  dry  Mofs,  for 
thefe  will  not  raife  a  ferment  as  Hay  and 
Straw  will  do,  when  they  come  to  be  wet  i 
then  fill  the  Mouth  with  Pepper,  and  it 
will  keep  a  long  time. 

To  keep  WiH-Ducks  yr^/&. 

DRAW  them,  and  fill  the  Body  with 
red  Sage,  after  the  infide  is  well 
pepper^dj  and  likewife  pepper  the  infide  of 
the  Mouth,  leave  on  the  Feathers.  A  Goofc 
may  be  ferv'd  the  fame  way. 

But  if  they  be  too  long  kept,  or  through 
want  of  Care,  they  fhould  receive  a  taint  j 
then,  when  they  are  puird,  wafli  the  In- 
fide very  well,  with  Vinegar  and  Water, 
and  dry  it  well  with  a  Cloth ;  and  fcrape 
away,  if  need  be,  what  are  call'd  the  Kid- 
neys j  then  ftrew  the  Infide  afrefh  with  Pep- 
per, and  hang  them  up  for  an  Hour  or  two, 
\vhere  the  Air  may  pafs  through  them. 

Some  in  fuch  a  cafe  will  put  an  Onion 
into  the  Body,  which  docs  very  well  to- 
wards reftoring  it  to  a  frefhnefsj  then  walh 
out  all,  and  prepare  it  for  the  Spit. 

Helps  towards  the  Trefervation  of  Fifli. 

IF  you  would  keep  Fifh  long,  kill  them 
as  foon  as  they  are  out  of  the  Water, 
and  take  out  their  Gills  >  then  fill   their 

Heads, 


Part  IL        Director.  y 

Heads  as  much  as  may  be,  with  Pepper, 
and  wipe  them  very  dry,  and  pack  them 
in  drv  Wheat-Straw. 

r.  i?. 

To  make  Wine  of  White  Elder-berries, 
like  Cyprus  Wine^  from  Mrs,  Warbur- 
ton  of  Cheihire. 

TO  nine  Gallons  of  Water,  put  nine 
Quarts  of  the  Juice  of  White  Elder 
berries,  which  has  been  preffed  gently  from 
the  Berries,  with  the  Hand,  and  palled  thro' 
a  Sieve,  without  bruifuig  the  Kerners  of 
the  Berriesj  add  to  every  Gallon  of  Liquor 
three  Founds  of  Lisbon  Sugar,  and  to  the 
whole  Quantity  put  an  Ounce  and  a  half 
of  Ginger,  fliced,  and  three  quarters  of  an 
'Ounce  of  Cloves 5  then  boil  this  near  an 
Hour,  taking  off  the  Scum,  as  it  rifes,  and 
pour  the  whole  to  cool,  in  an  open  Tub, 
and  work  it  with  Ale- Yeaft,  fprcadupona 
Toaft  of  white  Bread,  for  three  Days,  and 
then  tun  it  into  a  Veflel  that  will  juli  hold 
it  5  adding  about  a  Pound  and  a  half  of  llai- 
fins  of  the  Sun  fplit,  to  lie  in  the  Liquor 
till  we  draw  it  off,  which  fliould  not  be 
till  the  Wine  is  fine,  which  you  will  find 
about  January.  This  Wine  is  fo  like 
the  fine  rich  Wine  brought  from  Cy- 
J^rtis,  in  its  Colour  and  Flavour,  that  it  has 
deceived  the  befl  Judges,     Thefe  Berries  arc 

B  4  ripe 


8  Hoe  Country  Ladys 

ripe  In  Augufty  and  may  be  had  at  the  Ivy- 
Houfe  at  Hoxton. 

To  make  Wine  of  Black  Elder-berries, 
'which  is  equal  to  the  heft  Hermitage 
Claret  \from  Henry  Marfli,  Efy-y  of  Ham- 
merfmith. 

"^AKE  nine  Gallons  of  Spring  Wa- 
ter, and  half  a  Bufhel  of  Elder-ber- 
ries, picked  clean  from  the  Stalks,  boil  thefe 
till  the  Berries  begin  to  dimple,  then  gent- 
ly ftrain  off  the  Liquor,  and  to  every  Gal- 
lon of  it  put  two  Pounds  of  good  Lisbon 
Sugar,  and  boil  it  an  Hour  5  then  let  it  ftand 
to  coolj  in  an  open  Tub,  for  if  it  was  to 
cool  in  the  Copper,  or  Brafs  Kettle,  it  was 
boil'd  in,  the  Liquor  would  be  ill-tafted. 
When  it  is  almoft  cool,  Ipread  fome  Ale- 
Yeaft  upon  a  Toaft  of  White  Bread,  and  put 
it  into  the  Liquor,  to  work  three  Days  in  the 
open  Tub,  ftirring  the  Liquor  once  or  twice 
a  Day,  and  then  tun  it  in  a  Vcffel  of  a 
right  fize,  to  hold  it :  At  the  fame  time  add 
to  every  Gallon  one  pound  of  Raifins  of 
the  Sun  whole,  and  let  them  lie  in  the 
Cask  till  the  Wine  is  drawn  off. 

Such  a  fmall  quantity  of  Wine,  as  is 
heredircfted,  will  be  fit  to  bottle  the  j^^^w^- 
ary  next  after  it  is  made,  but  larger  Casks 
fliould  not  be  drawn  off  till  March  or  April 

4 


Part  IL       Director.  9 

A  Receipt  from  Barbadoes,  to  make  Rum ; 
which  proves  very  good, 

IN  Barbadoes  the  Rum  is  made  of  the 
Scum  and  OfFal  of  the  Sugar,  of  which 
they  put  one  ninth  part,  or  eighth  part,  to 
common  Water,  about  eighteen  Gallons,  all 
together,  in  a  wooden  open  Veffel  or  Tub  ; 
cover  this  with  dry  Leaves  of  Palm,  or  for 
want  of  them,  with  the  Leaves  oiTlatanus  or 
the  Leaves  of  Fern  in  England^  or  the  Parts 
or  Leaves  which  Flagg-Brooms  are  made  of. 
Let  this  remain  for  nine  Days,  till  it  changes 
of  a  clean  yellow  Colour,  and  it  will  be 
then  fit  to  diftil ;  then  put  it  into  an  Alem- 
bic, and  you  will  have  what  we  call  the 
Low- Wines.  A  Day  or  two  after  diftil  it 
again,  and  in  the  Cap  of  the  Still,  hang  a 
fmall  muflin  Bag  of  fweet  Tennel-Seeds, 
and  the  Spirit  wHl  be  of  a  fine  Flavour. 
Some  will  ufe  Annifeed  in  the  Bag,  and 
fome  ufe  a  little  Musk  with  the  fweet 
Fennel-Seeds,  or  elfe  diftil  the  Spirit  twice, 
viz,  once  with  the  fweet  Fennel- Seeds, 
and  the  next  with  a  little  Musk. 

N.B,  The  wooden  Veffels,  or  open  Tubs, 
muft  not  be  made  of  any  Wood  that  is 
unwholefome,  or  fweet-fcented  5  fuch  as 
Deal,  Firr,  or  Manchineel. 

In 


lo  T^e  Country  Ladys 

In  Englandy  Treacle  may  be  ufed  with 
equal  Succefs,  and  is  cheap  enough  to  get 
a  good  livelihood,  as  appears  by  the  feveral 
Ways  mentiond  above,  that  have  been 
privately  experienced. 

To  make  Citron- Water,  from  Barbadojcs. 

TAKE  Citron,  or  Lemon  Flowers, 
for  the  word  Citron  in  French  fig- 
nifies  Lemon,  though  we  generally  in  Eng-- 
land  efteem  the  large  Lemons  to  be  Citrons, 
and  the  middle-fizM  we  call  Lemons,  and 
the  fmalkft  of  that  race  is  call'd  the  Lime. 
In  thefe,  however,  there  are  as  many  varie- 
ties as  we  have  in  Apples,  one  is  finer  fla- 
vour'd  than  the  other.  The  Oranges  too 
are  of  as  many  different  Sorts,  the  Rind 
of  one  pleafanter  than  the  other,  and  the 
Juice  likewife,  and  fo  are  the  Flowers  va- 
rious in  their  Smells,  fome  more  odorous 
than  others^  yet  all  thefe  are  ufed  indiife- 
rently,  according  to  the  Kinds  that  hap- 
pen to  grow  upon  the  feveral  Eftates,  where 
the  Citron-Water  is  made,  and  this  is  the 
Pvcafon  why  one  Sort  is  better  than  ano- 
ther, and  therefore,  thofe  who  have  the 
moft  pleafant  Sorts,  make  the  bed  Waters 
of  this  Kind. 

Wc  mull  take,  either  of  Citron,  Lemon, 

or  Orange-Flowers,  four  Ounces  to  a  Gal- 

2  Jon 


Part  11.        Director.  ii 

Ion  of  clean  Spirit,  or  Frencb-Ba^Lndy  5  put 
thefe  in  the  Spirits,  with  two  Pounds  of 
white  Sugar-Candy,  beaten  fine:  then  take 
of  the  beft  Citron-Peels,  or  Lemon-Peels, 
fix  Ounces,  and  let  them  fteep  in  the  Spi- 
rits till  the  Liquor  is  ftrong  enough  of  eve- 
ry Ingredient  i  and  when  that  is  done,  pour 
it  off,  through  a  Sieve.  And  in  fqme  places 
they  put  about  half  a  Drachm  of  Musk  to  fix 
Gallons  of  Liquor  5  and  this  has  been  fold 
for  fixteen  Shillings  the  Qiiart  in  London, 

To  make  fine  Vinegar. 

THERE  is  no  doubt  but  the  making 
of  Vinegar  will  be  a  confiderable 
Article,  feeing  that  few  of  our  fine  Prepa- 
rations for  the  Table  can  be  made  without 
it.  A  Gentleman  of  great  note  has  given 
me  the  following  Receipt  for  it,  viz. 

To  nine  Gallons  of  Water,  put  eighteen 
Pounds  of  Malaga  Raifins,  chopt  a  little. 
Stalks  and  all  j  put  this  into  a  Cask,  bound 
with  Iron  Hoops,  and  place  it  in  the  warmed 
Expofure  you  can  find  in  the  open  Air :  then 
take  a  Florence  Plask,  divefted  of  its  Straw, 
and  put  the  Neck  of  it  into  the  Bung-hole, 
fixing  it  as  clofe  as  may  be,  with  fome  Lin- 
nen-Cloth,  and  a  little  Pitch  and  Rofin 
melted  together.  By  this  Means,  if  the 
Weather  prove  fair  and  warm,  your  Vinegar 

will 


^;> 


12  l^e  Country  Ladys 

will  be  fit  for  Ufe  in  three  Weeks  time. 
The  ufe  of  the  Glafs,  is,  that  in  the  heat 
of  the  Day  it  will  fill  itfelf  with  the  Liquor, 
and  when  the  cool  of  the  Evening  comes 
on,  that  Liquor  will  again  be  returned  in- 
to the  Cask  5  by  which  means  the  Liquor 
will  become  four  much  fooner  than  it 
will  otherwife  do.  As  foon  as  it  is  clear, 
draw  it  off. 

To  make  Irifh  Ufquebaugh  5  from  Lord  Ca- 
pell's  Receipt y  when  he  was  Lord  Lieu^ 
tenant  of  Ireland. 

TO  every  Gallon  of  jFrm^^-Brandy, 
put  one  Ounce  of  Liquorice  fliced, 
oneOunce  of  fweet  Fennel- Seeds,  oneOunce 
ofAnnifeeds,  one  Pound  of  Raifins  of  the 
Sun  fplit  and  ftoned,  a  quarter  of  a  Pound 
of  Figs  fplit,  two  Drachms  of  Coriander- 
Seeds  5  let  thefe  infufe  about  eight  ot  nine 
Days,  and  pour  the  Liquor  clear  off,  then 
add  half  an  Ounce  of  Saffron,  in  a  B^ag,  for 
a  Day  or  two,  and  when  that  is  out,  put  in 
a  Drachm  of  Musk.  If  when  this  Com- 
pofition  is  made,  it  feems  to  be  too  high 
a  Cordial  for  the  Stomach,  put  to  it  more 
Brandy,  till  you  reduce  it  to  the  Temper 
you  like.  This  is  the  fame  Receipt  King 
IVilliam  had  when  he  was  in  Ireland* 


To 


Part  11.       Director.  13 


To  make  Green  Ufquebaugh. 

TO  every  Gallon  of  Fr^Wf^-Brandy 
put  one  Ounce  of  Annifeeds,  and 
another  of  fweet  Pennel-Seeds,  two  Drachms 
of  Coriander- Seeds.  Let  thefe  infufe  nme 
Days,  then  take  of  the  Spirit  of  Saffron  one 
Drachm,  diftil'd  from  Spirit  of  Wine,  mix 
with  the  reft  j  infufe  during  this  time  fomc 
Liquorice  fliced  in  Spirits,  one  Pound  of 
Raifins  of  the  Sun,  and  filter  it ;  put  then 
a  Quart  of  pure  White- Wine  to  a  Gallon 
of  the  Liquor,  and  when  all  is  mix'd  to- 
gether, take  the  Juice  of  Spinach  boil'd, 
enough  to  colour  it  5  but  do  not  put  the 
Spinach  juice  into  the  Liquor  till  it  is 
cold.  To  this  put  one  Pound  of  white  Su- 
gar candied,  finely  powder  d,  to  a  Gallon 
of  Liquor. 

To  make  a  Cabbage-Pudding  5  from  a  Gen- 
tlewoman  in  Suffolk,  as  it  was  writ' 
ten  by  herfelf. 

Sir, 

YOU  will  excufe  me,  if  I  fend  you  a 
-Receipt  for  a  Pudding,  which  is  ac- 
counted fo  agreeable  by  my  Acquaintance, 
that  they  think  it  worth  a  place  in  your 
Book,   call'd.   The  Lady's  Monthly   "Di- 

rciiory 


14         7he  Country  Ladys 

relfor^  in  the  Management  of  the  feveral 
Produds  of  a  Farm.  It  may  as  well  be 
made  by  People  of  the  lower  as  of  the 
higher  Rank. 

Take  a  Piece  of  boird  Beef,  which  is 
not  always  done  enough ;  the  Parts  of  it 
which  are  the  leaft  done,  and  chop  them 
fmall:  take  as  much  boil'd  Cabbage  as  you 
have  Meat,  and  chop  that  as  frnaU  as  the 
Beef,  feafon  this  with  Pepper  and  Salt, 
and  two  or  three  Eggs  beaten,  to  mix  it 
up  in  the  manner  of  farced  Meat.  Whatever 
elfe  of  feafoning  you  like,  put  it  to  it  j  and 
when  it  is  made  into  a  thin  Pafte,  put  the 
Mixture  into  a  Linnen- Cloth,  and  boil  it 
till  it  is  enough,  then  ferve  it  to  the  Table. 
But  this  Pudding  is  much  better  made 
with  raw  fait  Beef  and  boird  Cabbage,  foi- 
ls makes  an  extraordinary  Pafte,  and  is  much 
fofter  and  fuller  of  Gravey  than  the  firft. 

N,B.  If  it  is  of  the  firft  Sort,  the  quan- 
tity of  half  a  Quartern  Loaf  of  fine 
Bread,  may  boil  an  Hour,  and  the 
latter  Sort  may  boil  an  Hour  aijd  a 
half. 

/  am  TourSy 

C.  13. 

Serve  it  with  Butter  and  Gravey,  with  Le- 
mon-Juice. 

Of 


Part  II.        Director.  15 

Of  the  Gourmandine-Pea,  and  its  fever al 
Ways  of  T>reffing. 


y.J'.'VT^OU  have  mention  d  in  one  of 
j[_    your  Books  a  fort  of  Pea,  which 
is  caird  the  Gourmandine,  or  Gourmand  5 
which  I  fuppofe  one  may  call,  in  Englifh^ 
the  Glutton's  Pea,    bccaufe  we  eat  all  of 
it.     For  the  Pods  of  it  are  very  fweet  and 
have  no  Film,    or  Skin  in  them,    fo  that 
the  Cods  may  be  as  well  eaten  as  the  Peas 
themfelves  $  for  which   reafon,  when  wc 
have  drawn  the  Strings  from  them,  as  we 
do  from  Kidney  Beans,  you  may  broil  them 
upon  a  Gridiron,    and  ferving  them  with 
gravey  Sauce,  they  are  very  good  3  or  to  cut 
them  Into  Pieces,  and  fry  them  with  Mut- 
ton Steaks  5  or  elfe  you  may  fry  them  with 
Beef,  and  they  are  ftill  better.  But  the  beft 
way,  is  to  cut  them  crofs,  as  you  do  French- 
Beans,  and  ftew  them  in  Gravey  with  a  lit- 
tle Pepper  and  Salt,  there  is  not  any  thing 
in  my  Opinion  can  eat  better  5  and  to  be 
put  in   a  gravey  Soop,  are  incomparable  j 
efpecially,  if  they  have  been  parboil'd,  and 
rubb'd  dry,  and  then  fry'd  in  burnt  Butter. 

The  fmalleft  dwarf  'crooked  Sugar-Pea, 
that  you  recomuiend,  is  of  the  fame  qua- 
lity, but  rather  better,   for  all  thefe  Ufes, 

being 


1 6         77)e  Country  Ladys 

being  fomewhat  fweeter  than  the  former^ 
and  the  Pod  fuller  of  Pulp. 

C.  B. 

To  make  Verjuice  of  Grapes^  unripe^   or 
of  Crab-Apples  $  from  J.  S.  Efc[^ 

TAKE  Grapes  full  grown,     juft  be- 
fore they  begin  to  ripen,  and  bruifc 
them,  without  the  trouble  of  picking  them 
from  the  Bunches  5  then  put  them  in  a  Bag, 
made  of  Horfe-Hair,  and  prefs  them  till 
the  Juice  is  difchargedj  put  this  Liquor  in- 
to a  Stone  Jar,    leaving   it  uncovered  for 
fome  Days,  then  clofe  it  and  keep  it  for 
ufe.  This  Verjuice  is  much  richer  than  that 
of  the  Crab- Apple,  and  has  a  much  greater 
influence  in  the.  way  of  Callico-Printing; 
but  is  harder  to  come  at,  few  People  being 
willing  to  gather  their  Grapes  unripe  5  but 
where  there  is  a-  large  Quantity,  it  is  well 
worth  while.      N,B.  It  will  do  well,    if 
the  Liquor   is  put  into   common   Casks, 
but  is  nicer  to  the  Palate  if  it  is  kept  in 
glazed  Jars  of  about  eight  or  nine  Gallons, 
and  the  Berries  might  then  be  pick'd  from 
the   Stalks.      Keep  this  in  a  good  Vault, 
and  it  will  remain  good  for  three  or  four 
Years  as  Verjuice  5  but  a  little  more  time 
will  make  it  lofe  its  Sournefs,  and  it  will 

become  like  Wine. 

The 


Part  II.         Director.  ly 

The  Verjuice  of  Crab-Apples  fhould  be 
made  of  the  wild  Crab,  which  produces 
Thorns  on  its  Branches,  and  brings  a  fmall 
round  Apple,  fuch  as  are  common  to  be 
planted  for  Pences.  I  am  the  more  parti- 
cular in  this,  becaufe  fome  Apples,  which 
are  cali'd  Wildings,  are  fuppofed  to  have 
afharp  JuicCj  but  fuch  will  foften  by  keep*^ 
ing  a  Year  or  two.  Take  the  Crabs,  I 
fpeak  of,  in  OSiobeV:,  and  grind  them  in 
a  Mill,  fuch  as  they  ufe  for  making  Cy- 
der 3  then  prefs  the  Liquor,  and  put  it  into 
Veffels  like  the  former.  Befides  the  agree- 
able Tafte  this  has,  as  an  Agrefta  at  the 
Table,  it  is  good  for  the  Callico  Printers, 

A  dry  Travelling  Towder,  for  Sauce.,  or 
Tocket-Satice,  From  Mynheer  Vander- 
port  of  Antwerp. 

'  j  ^A  K  E  pickled  Mango,  and  let  it  dry 
\  three  or  four  Days  in  the  Room ;  then 
reduce  it  to  Powder  by  means  of  a  Grater. 
Take  of  this  Powder  fix  Ounces,  to  which 
add  three  Ounces  of  Mufhrooms,  dry'd  in  a 
gentle  Oven,  and  reduced  to  Powder,  by 
beating  in  a  Mortar  5  add  to  this,  a  Dram 
of  Mace  powder 'd,  half  as  much  Cloves 
powder'dj  or  in  their  room,  a  large  Nut- 
meg grated,  and  a  Dram  of  black  Pepper, 
beat  fine  :  mix  thefe  Ingredients  well  toge- 
ther, and  fift  them  tl^ough  an  open  Hair- 

C  Sie\^e, 


1 8         l*he  Country  hadys 

Sieve:  and  half  a  Tea  fpoonful,  or  lefs, 
of  the  Powder  will  relifh  any  Sauce  you 
have  a  mind  to  make,  though  it  be  a  quart 
or  more,  putting  it  into  the  Sauce,  when 
it  is  warm.  To  this,  one  may  add  about 
nine  Grains  of  fweet  Bafil,  dry'd  and  pow-- 
der'd;  or  of  Summer  fweet  Marjoram 
powder'd.  If  we  ufe  this  Sauce  for  Fifh, 
it  is  extremely  good,  adding  only  a  little 
Anchovy  Liquor  and  white  Wine. 

To  preferve  Grapes  all  the  Winter. 

TAKE  an  Earthen  Jar,    well   glaz'd, 
that  will  hold  about  fix  Gallons,  or 
more  5  then  dry  fome  Oats,  a  little,  in  the 
Sun,  upon  Leads  if  you  can,   fo  that  they 
have  loft  fome  part  of  their  Moifture :  lay 
them  then  two  Inches  thick,  at  the  bottom 
of  the  Jar,  and  upon  them,  your  Bunches 
of  Grapes,  gathered  full  ripe  and  dry  %  and 
if  in  any  Bunch  there  is  a  rotted  Grape, 
cut  it  off,   and  fee  that  your  Bunches  are 
quite  clean  in  their  Berries  5   and  befides, 
that  all  the  Parts  you  have  cut  the  Grapes 
from,  are  quite  dry-     Lay  thefe  on  the  Oats, 
and  upon  them  put  two  hiches  thick  of  Oats, 
dry'd  as  before  ;  and  on  them  again,  a  Layer 
of  Grapes,  and  fo  the  Oats  upon  them,  con- 
tinuing this  Praftice  till  the  Veffel  is  full. 
Then  take  a  Cqrk,  well  foak'd  in  Oil,  and 
flop  it  clofe  in  the  Jar,  and  fealitup  with 

Pitch,, 


Part  II.         Director.  tg 

Pitch,  Bees- Wax,  and  a  little  Rofin,  melt- 
ed together,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  Placej 
but  to  bury  it  three  Foot  under  ground,  is 
better. 

A  Collar  of  Mutton  roajted.    From  St.  Ed- 
mundVBury  in  Suffolk, 

TAKE  a  Coaft  of  Mutton>  which  is 
the  Neck  and  Breaft  together,  skin  it 
in  the  whole  Piece  5  then  parboil  it,  and  pre- 
pare a  Mixture  of  Crumbs  of  Bread ;  Le» 
mon-Peel  grated,  a  little  Pepper,  Salt,  Nut-* 
meg,  or  fweet  Marjoram  powder'd,  which 
anfwers  the  End  of  moft  Spices,  or  elfe  a  lit- 
tle dry'd  fweet  Bafil,  which  we  call  Bujh- 
Bafily  in  the  Gardens.  To  this,  add  the  Yolks 
of  fix  hard  Eggs,  beat  in  a  Mortar,  with  fix 
Ounces  of  Butter  i  mix  this  with  the  other 
Ingredients  i    then  take  the  infide  of  the 
Mutton,  and  cover  it  with  this  Mixture,  and 
roll  it  up  as  clofe  as  can  be,  and  fecure  it  in 
the  Roll  i   fo  that  it  may  be  clofe  for  the 
Spit.     It  muft  be  fpittcd  through  the  Mid- 
dle length-ways,   and  bafted  with  Butter, 
falting  it    every  now  and  then,   and  the 
Gratings  of  Crufls  of  Bred  fliould  be  fprink- 
led  upon  it,  with  the  feafoning  above.  Juft 
before  it  is  enough,  when  it  is  taken  off  the 
Spit,  ferve  it  with  ftrong  Gravey  and  Lemon 
or  Orange  Juice,   and  garnifh  with  Lemon 
or  Orange  diced  i   or  when  Oyfters  are  in 
feafon,  add  fry'd  Oyfters :  viz. 

C  2  To 


20  The  Country  Ladys 

To  fry  Oyfters  for  a  7  late,  or  the  Garnifh 
of  the  foregoing  ©i/fc. 

MAKE  a  Batter  of  Eggs  and  Flower, 
Crumbs  of  Bread,  and  a  little  Mace, 
beaten  fine.  Stew  fome  large  Oyfters  in  their 
own  Liquor  gently,  and  wipe  them  dry,  and 
flower  them  :  dip  them,  after  this,  in  the 
Batter,  and  fry  them  in  very  hot  Butter,  or 
Lard,  or  Seam  of  an  Hog  5  and  they  will  be 
incruftated,  or  covered,  with  a  fort  of  Pafte, 
which  will  be  very  agreeable,  either  for  a 
Plate,  or  to  garnifh  a  Difh.  If  we  have  them 
alone,  ferve  them  with  fome  of  the  Liquor, 
a  little  Butter,  fome  White  Wine,  boiling 
firft  fome  Spices  in  the  Liquor. 

Of  a  Sturgeon,  how  it  ought  to  be  cured, 
for  cold  Meaty    or  dreffed  hot  for  the 

Table. 

* 

T'^HE  Sturgeon  is  a  Fifli  commonly 
found  in  the  Northern  Seasj  but 
now  and  then,  we  find  them  in  our  great 
Rivers  5  the  Thames,  the  Severn  and  the 
Tyne.  This  Filh  is  of  a  very  large  fize  % 
even  fometimes  to  meafure  eighteen  Foot 
in  length.  They  are  in  great  efteem  when 
they  are  frefii  taken,  to  be  cut  in  Pieces, 
of  eight  or  ten  Pounds,  and  roafted  or 
baked  5  befides,  to  be  pickled  and  pre- 
ferv'd  for  cold  Treats:     And  moreover, 

the 


Part  II.       Director.  2i 

the  Caviar,  which  is  efteem'd  a  Dainty,  is 
the  Spawn  of  this  Fifh. 

To  Cure^  or  Tickle^  Sturgeon  j  from  Ham- 
borough. 

TAKE  a  Sturgeon,  gut  it  and  clean 
it  very  well,  within  fide,  with  Salt 
and  Water  5  and  in  the  fame  manner  clean 
the  Outfide,  wiping  both  very  dry  with 
coarfe  Cloths,  without  taking  any  of  the 
great  Scales  from  it :  then  take  off  the 
Head,  the  Fins  and  Tail;  and  if  there  is 
any  Spawn  in  it,  fave  it  to  be  cured  for 
Caviar.  When  this  is  done,  cut  your  Fifh 
into  fmall  Pieces,  of  about  four  Pounds 
each,  and  take  out  the  Bones,  as  clean  as 
poflible,  and  lay  them  in  Salt  and  Water 
for  twenty-four  Hours  5  then  dry  them  well 
with  coarfe  Cloths  5  and  fuch  Pieces  as 
want  to  be  rolled  up,  tie  them  clofe  with 
Bafs-ftrings,  that  is,  the  firings  of  Bark 
which  compofe  the  Bafs-Mats,  fuch  as  the 
Gardeners  ufe :  for  that  being  flat,  like  Tape, 
will  keep  the  Fifh  clofe  in  the  boiling,  which 
would  otherwife  break,  if  it  was  tied  with 
Pack-Thread.  Strew  fome  Salt  over  the 
Pieces,  and  let  them  lie  three  Days  -,  then 
provide  a  piece  of  Wicker,  made  flat,  and 
wide  as  the  Copper  or  Cauldron  you  will 
boil  your  Fifh  in,  with  two  or  three  Strings, 

C   3  faften'd 


22         ^e  Country  Ladys 

fallen  d  to  the  Edges,  the  Ends  of  which 
fliould  hang  over  the  Edges  of  the  Copper, 
The  Pans  we  generally  boil  our  Fifh  in, 
are  fhallow  and  very  broad  i  then  make  the 
following  Pickle,  i;i^.  one  Gallon  of  Vine- 
gar to  four  Gallons  of  Water,  and  to  that 
quantity  put  four  Pounds  of  Salt.  When 
this  boils,  put  in  your  Fiih  5  and  when  it  is 
boild  enough,  take  it  out,  and  lay  it 
in  fingle  Pieces,  upon  Hurdles,  to  drain,  or 
upon  fuch  Boards  as  will  not  give  any  ex- 
traordinary Tafte  to  the  Fifh,  Some  will 
boil  in  this  Pickle  a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of 
whole  black  Pepper. 

When  your  Fifh  is  quite  cold,  lay  it  in 
clean  Tubs,  which  are  caird  Kits,  and  co- 
ver it  with  the  Liquor  it  was  boil'd  in^^ 
and  clofe  it  up,  to  be  kept  for  Ufe. 

If  at  any  time  you  perceive  the  Liquor  to 
grow  mouldy,  or  begin  to  mother,  pafs  it 
through  a  Sieve  5  add  fome  frefh  Vinegar  to 
it,  and  boil  it :  and  when  it  is  quite  cold, 
wafii  ycur  Fifh  in  fome  of  it,  and  lay  your 
Pieces  a-frefh  in  the  Tub,  covering  them 
with  Liquor  as  before,  and  it  will  keep 
good  feveral  Months.  This  is  generally 
eaten  with  Oil  and  Vinegar. 


To 


Part  IL       D I  ELECTOR.  23 

To  prepare  the  Caviar,,  or  Spawn,   of  the 
Sturgeon. 

WASH  it  well  in  Vinegar  and  Wa- 
ter, and  then  lay  it  in  Salt  and 
Water  two  or  three  Days  i  then  boil  it  in 
frefh  Water  and  Salt ,  and  when  it  is  cold, 
put  it  up  for  Ufe,  This  is  eaten  upon 
Toafts  of  white  Bread  with  a  little  Oil. 

To  Roaft  a  piece  of  frefh  Sturgeon  5  from 
iWr.  Ralph  Titchboum,  Cook, 

TAKE  a  piece  of  frefh  Sturgeon,  of 
about  eight  or  ten  Pounds  5  let  it 
lie  in  Water  and  Salt,  fix  or  eight  Hours, 
with  its  great  Scales  on  :  then  fatten  it  on 
the  Spit,  and  bafte  it  well  with  Butter  for  a 
quarter  of  an  Hour  -,  and  after  that,  drudge 
it  with  grated  Bread,  Flour,  fome  Nut- 
meg, a  little  Mace  powdered.  Pepper  and 
Salt,  and  fome  fweet  Herbs  dry'd  and  pow- 
dered, continuing  bafting  and  drudging  of 
it  till  it  is  enough.  Then  ferve  it  up  with 
th^  following  Sauce,  viz.  one  Pint  of  thin 
Gravey  and  Oyfter  Liquor,  with  fome  Horfe- 
Radifli,  Lemon-Peel,  a  bunch  of  fweet 
Herbs,  fome  whole  Pepper,  and  a  k'<}7  Blades 
of  Mace,  with  a  whole  Onion,  an  Ancho- 
vy, a  fpoonfull  or  two  of  liquid  Katchep, 

C  4  or 


24         7^^  Country  Ladys 

or  fome  Liquor  of  pickled  Walnuts,  with 
half  a  Pint  of  White  Wine  :  drain  it  off, 
and  put  in  as  much  Butter  as  will  thicken 
it.  To  this  put  Oyfters  parboiled,  Shrimps 
or  Prawns  pickt,  or  the  infide  of  a  Crab, 
which  will  make  the  fame  Sauce  very  rich  i 
then  garnifli  with  fry'd  Oyfters,  Lemon 
fliced,  butter'd  Crabs  and  fry'd  Bread,  cut  in 
handfome  Pigures,  and  pickled  Mufhrooms. 
N.B.  If  you  have  no  Katchcp,  you  may 
ufe  Mufhroom  Gravey,  mention  d  in  the 
firft  Part  of  your  Treatifc,  or  fome  of  the 
travelling  Sauce  in  the  fame  Book,  or  elfe 
a  fmall  Tea  fpoonful  of  the  dry  Pocket- 
Sauce. 

To  Roafi  a  Collar ,  or  Fillet ,  of  Sturgeon ; 
from  the  fame, 

AKE  a  piece  of  frcfti  Sturgeon  5  take 
out  the  Bones,  and  cut  the  flefhy  Part 
into  Lengths,  about  feven  or  eight  Inches  5 
then  provide  fome  Shrimps,  chopt  fmall  with 
Oyfters  5  fome  Crumbs  of  Bread,  and.fuch 
feafoning  of  Spice  as  you  like,  vv^ith  a  little  Le- 
mon-Feel grated.  When  this  is  done,  butter 
one  fide  of  your  Fi(h,  and  ftrew  fome  of  your 
Jviixture  upon  it  5  then  begin  to  roll  it  up, 
as  clofe  as  poflible,  and  when  the  firft  Piece 
is  rolled  up,  then  roll  upon  that  another, 
prepared  as  before,  and  bind  it  round  with 

a 


Part  II.       Director.  25 

a  narrow  Fillet,  leaving  as  much  of  the 
Pifh  apparent  as  may  be.  But  you  muft  re- 
mark, that  the  Roll  fhould  not  be  above  four 
Inches  and  a  half  thick  5  for,  elfe  one  Part 
would  be  done  enough  before  the  Infidc 
was  hardly  warm'd :  therefore,  I  have  fome- 
times  parboiFd  the  infide  Roil  before  1  be- 
gan to  roll  it. 

When  it  is  at  the  Fire,  bafte  it  well  with 
Butter,  and  drudge  it  with  fifted  Rafpings 
of  Bread.  Serve  it  with  the  fame  Sauce  as 
direfted  for  the  former. 

A  7iece  of  frefl)  Sturgeon  boiled*:,  from 
the  fame. 

WHEN  your  Sturgeon  is  clean,  prepare 
as  much  Liquor  to  boil  it  in,  as  will 
cover  itj  that  is,  take  a  Pint  of  Vinegar  to 
about  two  Quarts  of  Water,  a  ftick  of 
Horfe-Radifh,  two  or  three  bits  of  Lemon- 
Peel,  fome  whole  Pepper,  a  Bay-leaf  or 
two,  and  a  fmall  handful  of  Salt;  boil 
your  Fifh  in  this,  till  it  is  enough,  and 
ferve  it  with  the  following  Sauce. 

Melt  a  pound  of  Butter;  then  add  fome 
Anchovy  Liquor;  Oyfter  Liquor,  fome  White 
Wine;  fome  Katchep  boil'd  together  with 
whole  Pepper  and  Mace  ftrain'd;  put  to  this 
the  Body  of  a  Crab,  and  ferve  it  with  a  little 
Lemon-Juice.  You  may  lit^ewife  put  in  fome 

Shrimps, 


26  TlTjc  Country  Ladys 

Shrimps,  the  Tails  of  Lobfters,  cut  to  Pieces, 
fte w'd  Oy fters,  or  Cray-fifh  cut  into  fmall  Bits : 
garnifh  with  pickled  Mufhroonis  and  roafted 
or  fry'd  Oyfters,  Lemon  fliccd,  and  Horfe- 
Radifh  fcraped. 

To  make  a  Sturgeon-y^^ ;  from  the  fame. 

PUT  to  a  quartern  of  Flour,  two 
Pounds  of  Butter,  and  rub  a  third 
Part  in  5  then  make  it  into  a  Pafte  with  Wa- 
ter, and  roll  the  reft  in  at  three  times  5  then 
roil  out  your  Bottom,  and  when  it  is  in 
the  Dilh,  lay  fome  Butrer,  in  pieces,  upon 
iti  and  ftrew  on  that,  a  little  Pepper  and 
Salt.  Then  cut  your  Sturgeon  in  Slices 
crofs-ways,  about  threcquartersof  an  Inch 
thick,  feafoning  them  with  Pepper,  Salt, 
Nutmeg  and  Lemon-Peel  grated,  till  your 
Pye  is  full,  and  on  the  Top  lay  on  Pieces 
of  Buttery  then  clofe  it,  and  put  in,  Juft 
before  it  goes  to  the  Oven,  fome  White 
Wine  and  Water ;  and  when  it  is  bak'd, 
ferve  it :  garnifh  it  with  fliced  Lemon,  or 
Orange. 

To  butter  Crabs,  from  the  fame,  for  Gar- 
nifh for  the  foregoing  T^ijhes,  or  to  be 
ferved  by  thcmfelves. 

I^^AKE  middle-fiz'd  Sea-Crabs 5  break 
the  Claws,  and  pick  them  i  then  take 
out  the  Body,  free  from  all  the  Films  and 

boney 


PartlL       Director.  27 

boney  Parts ;  mix  thefe  together  with  fome 
Pepper  and  Salt,vto  your  mind  ,•  and  whea 
you  have  heated  fome  White  Wine  over 
the  Fire,  put  your  Mixture  into  it,  and 
ftir  it  well  together,  and  keep  it  warm  in  a 
gentle  Oven,  till  you  want  it  for  Ufe :  and 
juft  before  you  ufe  it,  pour  into  your 
Mixture  a  little  melted  Butter,  and  ftir  it 
well  in  i  then  clean  your  Shells,  as  well 
as  poflible,  in  hot  Water,  and  put  in  your 
Mixture,  and  ferve  it  to  the  Table  hot. 
Or  this  Mixture  may  be  ferv'd  on  a  Plate, 
upon  Sippets,  with  Slices  of  Lemon  or  O- 
range,    You  fhould  fry  the  Sippets. 

The  Manner  of  "Sickling  and  drying  of 
Sheeps  Tonguesy  or  Hogs  Tongues^  which 
they  call  Stags  Tongues^,  from  a  cele- 
brated "Fradiitioner  of  forty  Tears  Jiand-- 
ing  in  London. 

THE  Sheeps  Tongues,  which  arc 
commonly  bought  in  the  London 
Markets,  are  the  beft,  if  they  are  the  Tongues 
of  Wethers,  fed  in  low  Lands  j  being  the 
largeft,  as  they  are  taken  from  the  largeft 
fort  of  Sheep  :  but  the  Tongues  of  all  Sorts 
of  Sheep  are  good  enough  to  be  worth 
Pickling.  But  there  is  this  Difference  in 
the  Value,  that  one  large  Tongue,  well 
cured,  will  fell  for  three  Pence,  while  the 

fmalleft 


2S  The  Country  Ladys 

fmalleft  Sort,  cured  in  the  fame  manner,  will 
only  fell  for  Three  Half-pence,  or  a  Pen- 
ny. Thefe  Tongues  are  bought  in  Quan- 
tities of  the  Carcafs  Butchers,  about  White- 
chappely  and  other  Butchers  about  Town, 
who  kill  from  One  hundred  to  Six  hun- 
dred Sheep  in  a  Day,  each  Butcher ;  and 
they  know  very  w^ell  how  to  cut  out  the 
Tongues,  with  all  their  Parts  to  advan- 
tage :  but  they  are  afterwards  trimm'd,  when 
we  receive  them,  into  a  more  regular 
Shape,  by  thofe  who  cure  them.  When  wc 
are  about  this  Work,  there  is  one  thing  ne- 
ceffary  to  be  obferv'd,  efpecially  in  hot 
Weather,  but  always  it  is  beft  to  be  done  \ 
which  is,  cut  the  fleiliy  Part  of  the  Bottom 
of  the  Tongue  length-ways,  and  you  will 
find,  towards  the  Root,  an  Artery,  which 
asfoon  as 'tis  cut  will  bleed,  and  joining  to 
that  is  a  kind  of  Sweet-bread  5  take  thefe 
out,  as  clean  as  you  can,  without  disfiguring 
the  Tongue  5  othervvdfe  the  Tongues  willhave 
an  ungrateful  Smell,  and  putrify  :  fo,  that 
if  you  deal  by  Wholefale,  they  will  be  re- 
turned upon  your  hands,  or  be  a  trouble 
to  the  Pamily  where  they  are  made.  Wafh 
thefe  well,  after  trimming,  in  Salt  and  Wa- 
ter, and  then  fait  them  with  common  Salt, 
well  dry'J,  in  an  Iron  Kettle  ;  one  pound 
to  half  an  Ounce  of  Salt-Petre,  or  Nitre, 
powdcr'd  and  well  mix'd.    Rub  them  well 

z  with 


y 


Part  II.       Director.  29 

with  the  Mixture,  and  lay  them  clofe  together 
in  a  Tub,  or  glaz'd  earthen  Veffel ;  and,  after 
a  few  Days,  when  they  are  fait  enough,  take 
them  from  the  Pickle,  and  when  they  are 
a  little  dry,  tie  them  by  the  Tips,  half 
a  dozen  together  5  and  hang  them  up  in  a 
Chimney,  where  Deal  Saw-Duil:  is  bumt> 
till  they  are  fmokcd  enough,  to  be  cured 
for  boiling  5  then  boil  them  in  their  Bunches, 
and  let  them  dry  for  Sale.  But  to  come  a 
quicker  Way  to  cure  thefe  Tongues,  in  the 
Pickle,  as  we  do  generally,  is  to  make  a  Brine 
or  Pickle  in  the  following  manner  5  that  is, 
take  a  quantity  of  Water,  and  make  a 
Pickle  of  it  with  common  Salt,  boil'd  till 
it  will  bear  an  Egg  j  and  then  put  in  to 
every  Pound  of  Salt,  half  an  Ounce  of  Ni- 
tre, or  Salt-Petre  5  and  when  the  Pickle  is 
cold,  throw  in  your  Tongues :  which  is  the 
quickeft  Way.  But  for  drying  of  them,  the 
Smoking-Clofets  will  do  perfectly  well, 
only  we  have  not  always  thofe  Conveni- 
encies. 

The  Smoking-Clofets. 

IT  Is  to  be  obferv'd,  from  your  own 
Writings,  That  the  Smoking-Clofets 
are  of  great  ufe  in  curing  of  Hams  5  and 
they  are  no  lefs  Lifeful  in  drying  of  Tongues, 
I  have,  in  a  place,  in  the  Country,  one  of 

them 


30         ^e  Country  Ladys 

them  in  a  Garret,  where  We  enclofc  a  Room 
of  ten  foot  Square,  where  is  a  Chimney, 
into  which,  by  a  Regifter,  we  let  in  tlie 
Smoke  from  the  Fire,  which  is  made  on 
a  Hearth,  on  the  ground  Floor  5  fo  that 
the  Smoke  then  does  not  come  too  hot  on 
the  Tongues,  and  fo  preferves  them  from 
turning  rufty.  This  is  much  the  beft  way  of 
curing  them,  and  one  may  cure,  in  fuch  a 
Room,  fourfcore  dozen  at  a  time.  This  Place, 
likewife,  wecureourHung-Beef  in.  Wchave 
try'd  fome  Sheeps  Tongues,  falted  only  in 
a  Brine  of  common  Salt,  and  dry'd  in  fuch 
a  Room;  and  they  are  very  red,  and  well 
tafted,  though  there  is  no  Salt-Petre  ufed 
in  the  Pickle. 

A  Carp  Tye.    From  Mrs.  Mary  Gordon, 

PUT  to  a  quartern  of  Flour  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  Butter,  rubbing  a  third 
part  iui  and  make  it  into  a  Pafte  with 
Water  :  then  roll  in  the  reft  of  the  Butter, 
at  two  or  three  times,  and  lay  your  Paftc 
in  the  Difh,  putting  fome  bits  of  Butter, 
on  the  bottom  Pafte,  with  fome  Salt  and 
Pepper,  at  difcretion. 

Then  fcale  and  gut  your  Carp,  and  wafli 
it  with  Vinegar,  and  dry  it  well  j  and  make 
the  following  Pudding  for  the  Belly  of 
the  Carp:  vi^.    Take  the  Flefh  of  an  Eel, 

and 


Part  IL       Director.  31 

Eel,  and  mince  it  very  fmall  5  add  fome 
grated  Bread,  fome  dry'd  fweet  Marjoram 
powder'd,  two  butter'd  Eggs,  a  fmall  An- 
chovy minced,  a  little  Nutmeg  grated , 
and  fome  Salt  and  Pepper  3  mix  this  well, 
and  fill  the  Belly  of  the  Carp  with  it  5  and 
for  the  remaining  Part,  make  it  into  Balls, 
Then  cut  off  the  Tail  and  Fins  of  the  Carp, 
and  lay  it  in  the  Cruft,  with  the  Balls  a- 
bout  it  5  fome  Mufhroom  Buttons,  Oyfters 
with  their  Fins  taken  off,  and  fome  Shrimps, 
a  few  Slices  of  Lemon,  and  fome  thin 
Slices  of  fat  Bacon,  a  little  Mace  and 
fome  bits  of  Butter :  then  clofe  it,  and  be- 
fore you  put  it  into  the  Oven,  pour  in 
half  a  Pint  of  Claret.     Serve  this  Pyc  hot. 

To  make  Bifcuits  of  Potatoes.    From  the 

fame. 

\  . 

BOIL  the  Roots  of  Potatoes,  till 
they  are  tender ;  then  peel  them, 
and  take  their  weight  of  fine  Sugar,  finely 
lifted;  grate  fome  Lemon-Peel  on  t;he  Su- 
gar i  and  then  beat  the  Potatoes  and  Sugar 
together,  in  a  Stone  Mortar,  with  fome 
Butter,  a  little  Mace,  or  Cloves,  finely 
fifted,  and  a  little  Gum  Dragon,  fteeped 
in  Orange-Flower-Water,  or  Pvofe-Water^ 
till  it  becomes  a  Pafte  5    then  make  it  into 

Cakes 


32  "The  Country  Ladys 

Cakes  with  Sugar,  finely  powder'd,  and  dry 
them  in  a  gentle  Oven. 

To  make  Bifcuits  of  Red  Beet-Roots  5  from 
the  fame '-y  r^//'^ /^^  Crimfon-Bifcuit. 

TAKE  the  Roots  of  Red-Beets,  and 
boil  them  tender  5  clean  them,  and 
be^t  them  in  a  Mortar  with  as  much  Su- 
gar, finely  fifted ;  feme  Butter  5  the  Yolks 
of  hard  Eggs,  a  little  Flowery  fome  Spice, 
finely  beaten,  and  fome  Orange-Flower- Wa- 
ter, and  a  little  Lemon-Juice.  When  they 
are  well  mix'd,  and  reduced  to  a  Pafte,  make 
them  into  Cakes,  and  dry  them  in  a  flow 
Oven. 

To  boil  Onions,  that  they  ^all  lofe  their 
firong  Scent-,  and  become  as  fweet  as 
Sugar  in  their  Tajie.     From  the  fame. 

TAKE  the  largeft  OnionS:,  and  when 
you  have  cut  off  the  Strings  of  the 
Roots,  and  the  green  Tops,  without  taking 
off  any  of  the  Skins,  fling  them  into  Salt 
and  Water,  and  let  them  lie  an  Hour;  then 
wafh  them  in  it,  and  put  them  into  a  Kettle, 
where  they  may  have  plenty  of  Water,  and 
boil  them,  till  they  are  tender.  Then  take 
them  oiF,  and  take  off  as  many  Skins,  as 
you  think  fit,  till  you  come  to  the  white 
Part,  and  then  bruife  them,  if  you  will, 
and  tols  them  up  with  Cream  or  Butter, 

if 


Part  IL         Director.  33 

if  you  ufe  them  with  boird  Rabbits,  or 
under  a  roafted  Turkey  5  bm  in  the  laft  Cafe, 
this  Sauce  fhould  be  ferv'd  in  Bafons,  or  on 
Plates.  You  may  alfo  bruife  them^  and  drain 
them  through  a  Cullendar,  and  then  put 
Cream  to  them ;  which  is  efteenVd  the  niccft 
way  for  aTurkey  5  or  if  you  keep  them  whole, 
you  may  warm  them  in  ftrong  Gravey,  well 
drawn,  with  Spice  and  fweet  Herbs ;  and 
when  that  is  done,  thicken  the  Gravey  with 
burnt  Butter,  adding  a  little  Claret,  or  White 
Wine  5  or,  for  want  of  that,  a  little  Ale. 
This  is  a  Sauce  for  a  Turkey  roafted,  or  roaft 
Mutton,  or  Lamb. 

Hungary- Water.  From  Mfj.  DuPont,  of 
Lyons ;  which  is  the  fame^  which  has 
been  famous y  about  Montpelier. 

TAKE  to  every  Gallon  of  Brandy,  or 
clean  Spirits,  one  handful  of  Rofe- 
mary,  one  handful  of  Lavender.  I  fuppofe 
the  handfuls  to  be  about  a  Foot  long  a-piece  5 
and  thefe  Hetbs  muft  be  cut  in  Pieces,  about 
an  Inch  long.  Put  thefe  to  infufe  in  the 
Spirits,  and  with  them,  about  an  hand- 
ful of  Myrtle,  cut  as  before.  When  this  has 
flood  three  Days,  diftil  it,  and  you  will  have 
the  fineft  Hungary- Water  that  can  be.  It 
has  been  faid,  that  Rofemary-Flowers  are 
better  than  the  Stalks  j  but  they  give  a 
faintnefs  to  the  Water,  and  fhould  not  be 

D  ufed 


34         5^^  Country  Ladys 

ufed,  bccaufe  they  have  a  quite  different 
Smell  from  the  Rofemary;  nor  fhould  the 
Flowers  of  Myrtle  be  ufed  in  lieu  of  the 
Myrtle,  for  they  have  a  fcent  ungrateful,  and 
not  at  all  like  the  Myrtle. 

Xhe  Manner  of  making  the  famous  Barce- 
lona SnufF,  as  it  was  performed  at  the 
Lyon  /^r  Barcelona  5  from  the  fame.  This 
is  alfo  caltd  Myrtle  SnufF. 

TAKE  Seville  Snuff,  and  prepare  a 
dry  Barrel,  that  has  not  had  any  Wine 
in  it,  or  of  any  Scent ;  then  cut  the  frefh 
Tops  of  Myrtle,  and  lay  a  layer  of  them  at 
the  bottom  of  the  Cask,  an  Inch  or  two 
thick ;  then  lay  SnufF  on  that  as  thick,  and 
lay  on  more  Myrtle,  two  Inches  i  then  a- 
gain,  put  on  SnufF,  and  fo  fill  the  Barrel  in 
the  fame  Manner,  Stratum  fuper  Stratum. 
Then  prefs  it  down  with  a  Board,  that  will 
fit,  and  fet  three  Weights  upon  it  of  a  quar- 
ter of  an  Hundred  a-piece,  and  let  it  ftand 
four  and  twenty  Hours ;  then  turn  it  out, 
and  fift  it,  flinging  the  Myrtle  away ;  then 
put  it  into  the  Cask,  as  before,  with  frefh 
Myrtle,  and  ferve  it  fo  three  times,  and  fift 
it  off.  When  this  is  done,  add  to  every  ten 
Pounds  of  SnufF,  one  pound  of  Orangery 
SnufF,  and  mix  the  whole  very  well,  and 
after  three  days,  put  it  into  glaz'd  Pots,  well 
prefTed  into  them,  and  ftopt  clofe ;  or  elfe 

into 


Part  II.        Director.  35 

into  Leaden  Pots :   which  laft  is  rather  th€ 
beft. 

To  make  Orangery  Snuff.     From  the  fame. 

TAKE  Seville  SnufF  and  Orange-Flow- 
ers,  frcfh  gathered  early  in  the  Morn- 
ing. And  in  a  glaz'd  Earthen  Veffelj  lay 
a  Layer  of  the  Flowers,  then  a  Layer  of 
SnufF,  then  a  Layer  of  Flowers;  and  fo  on,  till 
the  Pot  is  full.  Prefs  it  down  very  gently, 
and  let  the  Mouth  of  the  Pot  be  open  for 
twenty-four  Hours  5  then  turn  all  out,  and 
iift  your  SnufF,  and  lay  in  frefh  Flowers,  with 
SnufF,  in  the  fame  manner  as  before i  and 
at  the  end  of  four  and  twenty  Hours  fift  it 
off  again,  and  repeat  the  fame  the  third  time : 
being  fure  that  the  Flowers  do  not  remain 
longer  than  twenty-four  Hours,  z\iz  they 
will  four  the  SirufF.  In  making  this  Snuff, 
you  ought  to  allow  at  leafl  apound  for  Wafte, 
for  the  Flowers  will  gather  a  great  deal  of 
it. 

To  make  Orange*Butter.    From  the  fame. 

TAKE  Hogs -Lard  (or  as  in  foine  Places, 
caird  Hogs-Seame)  wafh  this  well  in 
Spring- Water,  beating  it  all  the  while  with 
a  piece  of  Wood  j  then  take  Orange-Flow- 
ers, frefh  gather'd,  and  melt  the  Lard  gent- 
ly, and  put  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the 
Blowers  into  a  pound  of  Lard;    let  them 

D  2  remain 


36         T*he  Country  Ladys 

remain  ten  Minutes,  gently  keeping  them 
warm  over  the  Fire  3  then  ftrain  it  off,  and 
when  the  Lard  is  again  cold,  beat  it,  and 
wafh  it  with  Orange-Flower-Water.  Then 
melt  it  gently  a  fecond  time,  and  put  in 
frefh  Flowers,  in  the  fame  manner  as  before, 
and  it  will  become  of  a  yellow  Colour  , 
and,  when  it  is  cool,  beat  it  again  with  a 
wooden  Paddle  and  Orange-Flower- Water, 
and  then  put  it  into  Pots  for  ufe.  I  fliould 
remark,  that  the  Lard  fhould  be  melted  by 
putting  it  in  a  glazed  Veffel,  and  melting  it 
by  putting  the  Veflel  into  boiling  Water. 

To  make  Flour  of  Muftard. 

THOSE  who  live  in  the  Country,  or 
go  to  Sea,    have  frequent  occafion 
to  ufe  Muftard,  when  there  is  no  opportu- 
nity of  getting  it  without   extraordinary 
Trouble.     It  is  a  Sauce  feldom  thought  on 
till  the  Minute  we  want  it  5  and  then,  accord- 
ing to  the  old  Way  of  making  it,  if  we  are 
lucky  enough  to  have  Muftard- Seed  in  the 
Houfe,  we  muft  fpend  an  Hour  in  the  Cere- 
mony of  grinding  it  in  a  wooden  Bowl,  and 
an  Iron  Cannon-Bullet,  according  to  the  old 
Cuftom  i  or,  if  we  have  Muftard  by  us,  rea- 
dy made,  if  it  has  flood  a  Week,  it  is  then 
of  no  value,  if  it  is  in  fmall  quantity.    But 
to  obviate  this  Difficulty,  the  Invention  of 
grinding  Muftard-Seed  in  a  Mill,  and  there- 
by 


Part  11.       Director.  37 

by  reducing  of  it  to  Flour,  to  be  made  fit 
for  the  Table  in  an  inftant,  has  been  very 
well  received  :  for  by  that  Contrivance  we 
have  it  always  frefh,  and  full  of  brisk  Spi- 
rits, and  may  only  make  juft  what  we  want 
without  any  fpoil,  as  long  as  we  keep  a 
Stock  of  this  Flour  by  us. 

There  are  two  Sorts  of  Muftard  :  viz^ 
The  white  Sort,  which  is  a  large  Grain,  and 
not  fo  ftrong^  and  the  black  Sort,  which 
is  a  fmall  Grain.  That  which  I  account  the 
beft,  is  from  the  wild  Muftard,  commonly 
found  growing  in  Effex,  which  fells  the  beft 
ia  the  Markets.  But  from  whatever  Place 
we  have  it,  regard  fliould  be  chiefly  had  to 
its  being  free  from  Muftinefs,  which  hap- 
pens from  the  gathering  the  Seed  wet,  or 
in  the  Dew,  and  laying  it  clofe  together  be- 
fore it  is  threfh'd.  When  this  Seed  is  dry 
ajid  fweet,  grind  it  in  a  Mill,  fuch  as  a  Cof- 
fee-Mill 5  but  the  Mill  muft  be  frefh,  and 
free  from  any  Flavour  or  Taint :  it  fhould 
not  indeed  be  ufed  with  any  other  thing. 
When  you  have  ground  a  fufficient  Quanti- 
ty, pafs  it  through  a  pretty  open  Sieve,  and 
the  next  day  put  it  into  Vials  with  open 
Mouths,  prefllng  it  down  clofe  -,  ftop  them 
well,  and  keep  it  for  ufe.  When  you  want 
good  Muftard  for  the  Table,  take  a  fpoon- 
ful  or  two  of  this  Flour,  and  as  much  boil- 
ing Liquor  from  the  Pot,   where  Beef  or 

P  3  Pork 


38         ^e  Country  Ladys 

Pork  is  boiled,  as  will  make  it  of  the  Con- 
fiftenqe  you  defire,  ftirring  it  well  till  it  is 
mixt  for  your  Purpofe^  or  for  want  of  fuch 
Liquor,  boil  a  little  Salt  and  Water  toge^ 
ther,  and  mix  your  Muftard-Flour  with  that : 
but  in  either  of  thefe  Ways  you  muftob- 
ferve,  that  while  yourMuftard  is  warm,  it 
will  laft  better. 

Some  who  do  not  love  their  Muftard  over- 
ftrong,  put  equal  Quantities  of  the  white 
and  black  Mullard- Seed  into  the  Mill,  and 
then  the  Flour  will  not  be  fo  poignant  to 
the  Palate,  and  will  have  a  brighter  Look.  If 
your  Mill  be  fet  very  fharp,  the  Flour  will 
be  fo  fine,  that  it  need  hardly  be  fifted. 

To  keep  Anchovys  good  for  a  long  time. 
From  Mrs.  M.  N* 

AS  the  People  in  the  Country  have  not 
always  the  conveniency  of  a  Market 
near  them,  and  the  Anchovy  is  often  re- 
quired for  Fifh-Saucej  fo  fhould  every  Fa- 
mily keep  a  quantity  by  them.  They  fhould 
be  large,  and  frefh  brought  over  when  we 
buy  them,  and  feel  firm  to  the  Finger  5  neither 
fhould  they  have  their  Heads  on,  for  they  are 
then  more  apt  to  turn  rancid  and  ftink  5  and 
if  we  buy  them  in  large  Quantities,  the  fre- 
quent opening  the  Pot  we  keep  them  in  will 
fubjed  them  to  Change.  But  to  prevent 
this?  as  the  Liquor  falls  or  fhrinks,  add  Vi- 
negar 


Part  IL       Director.  39 

negar  to  them,  which  will  continue  them 
firm  and  free  from  Rotting  for  two  Years. 

To  Roaji  a  Shoulder  of  Mutton  like  Veni- 
fon.     From  the  fame. 

TAKE  a  Shoulder  of  Mutton,  and  skin 
it  5  then  lay  it  in  the  frefh  Blood  of 
a  Sheep,  well  ftirr'd  with  a  little  Salt,  as  it  is 
bleedingjfor  fix  or  eight  Hours.  When  you 
have  done  this,  wafh  it  in  Water  and  Saltj 
and  at  laft  with  Vinegar  5  or  elfe  you  may 
fteep  it  in  an  Infufion  of  warm  Water,  a  Gal- 
lon, and  half  a  quarter  of  an  Ounce  of  Bra- 
jsiZ-Wood  rafp'd.  You  may  fteep  it  in  this  Li- 
quor for  four  Hours,  or  elfe  you  may  let  it 
fafs  half  an  Hour  in  a  gentle  Oven  with  Wa- 
ter and  Salt,  and  a  fmall  Piece  of  Brazil- 
Wood  m  it  5  either  of  which  will  give  it 
a  Colour :  but  I  think  the  two  laft  are  bet- 
ter than  the  Blood.  Roaft  it  then  for  its 
time,  bafting  it  well  with  Water  and  Salt, 
till  it  is  near  enough,  and  then  give  it  a  lit- 
tle fprinkling  of  Salt  and  rafpings  of  Bread, 
with  fome  Flour  well  mixt.  The  Sauce  for 
this  is  Claret  boird  with  Cinnamon,  fweet- 
Aed  with  a  little  Sugar  and  Crumbs  of  Bread 
grated:  but  fome  will  ufe  the  Claret,  Sugar 
ahd  Cinnamon  without  the  Crumbs,  in 
Sau6ers$  as  it  is  now  the  moft  common  way 
m  Noblemens  Families  to  do  Vcnifon.  But 
iii  the  Dilh  witb  the  artificial  Shoulder  of 

D  4  Venifon, 


40  "The  Country  Ladys 

Venifon,  put  a  ftrong  Gravey  of  Beef,  or 
made  of  fome  of  the  Beef-Glue  which  you 
have  recommended  in  your  Book. 

To  make  a  Hare-Pye,  for  a  cold  Treat, 
From  the  fame, 

TAKE  the  Flefh  of  an  Hare,  and  beat 
it  in  a  Marble  Mortar,  then  add  as 
many  butter'd  Eggs  as  will  almoft  equal  the 
Quantity  of  the  HareVFledi.  Mix  thefe  to- 
gether with  a  little  fat  Bacon  cut  fmall^  fome 
Pepper  and  Salt,  and  a  little  powder  of 
Cloves  and  Mace,  or  fweet  Marjoram,  to 
your  Pleafure,  and  mix  them  very  well  5  then 
lay  in  yourPafte,  and  butter  it  well  at  the 
bottom  with  fome  feafoning,  ftrew'd  upon 
it,  and  lay  in  your  Preparation,  and  cover  it 
with  Butter  5  then  clofe  it,  and  ferve  it  when 
it  is  cold. 

To  preferve  Ginger,  and  reduce  the  com- 
mon Ginger  for  that  purpofe.  From 
the  fame, 

■^  AKE  the  large  Roots  of  Ginger,  and 
pour  fcaiding  Water  upon  them  j  and 
when  that  is  cool,  pour  on  fome  more  fcaid- 
ing Water :  and  fo  repeat  the  fame  till  the 
feventh  or  eighth  time,  or  till  you  find  the 
Ginger  foft,  and  very  much  fw  el  I'd.  Then 
warm  fome  White  Wine,  and  put  it  in  that, 
for  a  few  Hours,  ftirring  it  frequently  while 

it 


Part  II.        Director.  41 

it  is  in  any  of  the  Liquors.  Boil  the  laft  Li- 
quor with  fine  Sugar  to  a  Syrup ;  then  put 
in  your  Ginger,  and  boil  it  for  fome  time  5 
then  kt  it  by  till  the  next  day,  and  repeat  the 
boiling  of  the  Ginger,  adding  every  now 
and  then  a  little  White  Wine,  till  the  Gin- 
ger begins  to  look  a  little  clear  5  and  when 
it  is  cold,  put  it  into  Glaffes,  or  glazed  Jars, 
(lopping  it  clofc. 

Marmalade  of  Oranges  and  Lemons.  From 
the  fame, 

IT  is  neceflary  to  boil  the  Rinds  of  each 
in  feveral  Waters,  till  the  Bitternefs  is 
loft,  and  that  they  are  reduced  to  a  tender- 
nefs,  fuch  as  you  like  $  then  beat  them  in 
a  Marble  Mortar  with  as  much  of  the  Pulp 
of  Golden-Pippins,  or  Golden-Rennets,  as 
you  think  proper.  Then  take  their  weight 
of  Sugar  well  powder'd,  and  a  Pint  of  Wa- 
ter to  every  Pound  of  Sugary  boil  your  Su- 
gar and  Water,  and  when  you  have  made  a 
Syrup,  put  in  your  Pulp,  and  boil  them  all 
together  till  they  are  clear.  Then  put  in  the 
Juice  of  Oranges  and  Lemons,  fo  much  as 
will  give  you  the  Tafte  you  defire  5  then  boil 
it  over  again  till  it  jellies,  and  put  it  into 
Glaflcs,     Keep  this  in  a  dry  Place* 


To 


43         "The  Country  JLadys 

To  make  Syrup  of  Mulberries.     From  the 

fame. 

PRE  S  S  out  the  Juice  of  Mulberries  with 
your  Hands,  and  pafs  it  through  a  Sieve; 
and  when  it  has  flood  to  fettle,  pout  off  the 
clear,  and  put  to  it,  its  Weight  of  fine  Sugar  i 
put  this  into  l  Gallypdt,  and  fet  that  Pot  in- 
to a  Kettle  of  hot  Water,  which  fhduld  be 
kept  fimmering  near  two  Hours :  ftir  the  Sy- 
rup every  now  and  then  with  a  Silver  Spoon, 
and  take  off  what  Scum  may  rife  at  Times, 
tipon  it  5  when  it  is  enoiigh,let  it  (land  till 
k  is  quite  cold,  and  theft  put  it  into  clear 
dry  Bottles  with  large  Mouths,  and  flop  theni 
clofe.     Keep  this  in  a  dry  Place. 

It  is  to  be  remarked,  that  befides  thi^  Sy* 
nip  is  very  coolings  its  ufe  is  to  colour 
.ftcw'd  Apples,  or  Puddings,  or  any  fweet  Pre- 
paration made  with  Flour  or  Fruit :  for  in  it- 
fclf  it  carries  no  Flavour  that  will  be  pre* 
dominant  over  that  of  another  Fruit. 

Ojf  Syrup  ^Rafpberries,  Currans,  or  other 
Fruits.     From  the  fame, 

THESE  Syrups  arc  made  like  the  for- 
mer, by  preffing  out  the  Juice  with 
the  Hands  5  becaufe  if  the  Seeds  are  broken, 
the}^  would  have  an  ill  Tafte.  Treat  thefe 
in  tlie  making  juft  in  the  fame  way  as  the  for- 
mcr;p  and  ufe  them  in  the  fame  manner,   to 

colour 


part  II.       Director.  43 

colour  any  fweet  Preparation  5  but  remem^ 
ber,  where  you  put  any  of  the  Rafpberry 
Syrup,  the  Flavour  of  the  Rafpberry  will 
prevail. 

To  make  a  K^i^htny-Tudding.    From  the 

fame, 

TAKE  a  Pint  of  Grcam,  and  grate  in- 
to it  four  Penny  Naples  Bifcuits  5 
then  take  the  Yolks  of  eight  hard  Eggs  chopt 
and  broken  fmall ;  then  beat  four  Eggs  arid 
put  in  two  fpoonfuls  of  Flour,  and  as  much 
Powder  of  double- refined  Sugary   then  put 
in  as  much  Syrup  of  Rafpberries  as  you  think 
.proper  to  give  it  a  Flavour  and  a  Colour. 
If  you  find  that  your  Compofition  is  not 
thick  enough,  you  may  grate  in  more  Na- 
ples Bifcuit.  Mix  all  this  well  together,  and> 
if  you  will,  make  a  fine  Cruft  roll'd  thin  and 
laid  in  a  Difh,  and  bake  it  in  a  gentle  O- 
ven. 

Parfnip-Cakes,    From  the  fame^. 

SCRAPE  fomc  Parfhip-Roots,  andflice 
them  thin,  dry  them  in  an  Oven,  and 
beat  them  to  Powder  i  mix  them  then  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  Flour,  and  make  them 
up  with  Cream  and  Spices  powder'di  thea 
mould  them  into  Cakes,  and  bake  them  in 
a  gentle  Oven.  N.B.  The  fweetnefs  of 
the  Parfnip  Powder  anfwers  the  want  of 
Sugar.  "  ?> 


44-  7^^  Country  Ladys 

To  make  Rafpberry  hakd  Cakes,     From 

the  fame, 

TAKE  Potatoes  and  boil  them,  and 
when  they  are  peeFd,  beat  them  in 
a  Marble  Mortar  with  half  the  Quantity  of 
fine  Sugar  powder'd  $  then  put  in  fome  of 
your  Rafpberry  Syrup,  till  it  is  coloured 
with  it,  and  make  up  your  Cakes  in  fine 
Sugar  powder'd.  Then  dry  them,  or  bake 
them,  in  a  gentle  Oven.  Note^  thefe  Cakes 
Should  be  made  thin. 

Of  Ortolans.    From  Mr,  Renaud. 

TH  E  Ortolan  is  a  Bird  brought  from 
France:,  and  is  fed  in  large  Cages 
with  Canary-Seeds  till  they  become  a  lump 
of  Fat;  and  when  they  are  fully  fatted,  they 
muft  be  killed,  or  elfe  they  will  feed  upon 
their  own  Flefh.  When  we  kill  them,  you 
niuft  take  them  by  the  Beak,  and  holding  it 
clofe  between  your  Finger  and  Thumb,  the 
Bird  will  be  ftifled  in  about  a  Minute  j  then 
pick  off  the  Feathers  even  thofe  of  the  Head, 
and  pafs  a  fine  Skewer  through  them,  jufl 
under  the  Wings,  and  roaft  them  quick  5  fct- 
ting  fmali  Toafts  under  them  to  drip  upon. 
Serve  them  with  ftrong  Gravcy,  and  as  much 
White  Wine  hot,  and  garniili  with  Slices 
of  Lemon  and  Rafpings  of  Bread  fifted  and 
toafled  before  the  Fire. 

Ta 


Part  IL        Director-  45 

To  make  Sugar  Comfits  of  any  Sort.    From 
Mrs.  Anne  Shepherd  of  Norwich. 

THE  Seeds  which  we  generally  make 
Comfitts  of,  arc  Carraways,  Cori- 
ander and  Anife-Seeds  •,  thefe,  when  they  are 
cover'd  with  Sugar,  are  caird  Comfits, 
iConfe£is), 

The  Inftruments  to  be  employed  for  this 
Ufe,  are  firft  a  deep-bottom'd  Bafon  of  Bell- 
Metal,  or  Brafs,  well  tinned,  to  be  hung 
over  fome  hot  Coals. 

Secondly,  You  muft  have  a  broad  Pan 
to  put  hot  Coals  in. 

Thirdly,  Provide  a  Bra(s  Ladle  to  pour 
the  Sugar  upon  the  Seeds. 

Fourthly,  You  muft  have  a  Brafs  Slice  to 
fcrape  off  the  Sugar  that  may  chance  to  hang 
upon  the  fide  of  the  hanging  Bafon. 

Then  take  care  that  your  Seeds  are  dry, 
or  dry  them  well  in  your  hanging  Pan. 

To  every  quarter  of  a  Pound  of  Seeds 
ufe  two  Pounds  of  fine  Sugar  beaten;  unlefs 
to  Anife-Seeds,  ufe  two  Pounds  of  Sugar 
to  half  a  Pound  of  Seeds. 

To  begin  the  Work,  put  three  Pounds  of 
fine  Sugar  into  the  Bafon  with  one  Pint  of 
Water,  to  be  ftirr'd  well  together  till  the 
Sugar  is  wet  5  and  boil  it  gently,  till  the  Su- 
gar will  rope  from  the  Ladle  like  Turpcn* 
tine,  and  it  is  enough.    Keep  this  however 

warm. 


4-6         jt^e  Country  Ladys 

warm,  upon  warm  Embers,  that  it  may  run 
freely  in  a  ropy  Way  from  the  Ladle  upon 
the  Seeds. 

When  this  is  ready,  move  the  Seeds  brisk- 
ly in  the  Bafon,  and  fling  on  them  half  a 
ladle-full  at  a  time  of  the  hot  Sugar,  keeping 
the  Seeds  moving  for  fome  time  5  which  will 
make  them  take  the  Sugar  the  better,  and  be 
fure  to  dry  them  well  after  every  covering, 
by  moving  the  Bafon,  and  ftirring  the  Com- 
fits. In  an  Hour,  you  may  make  three  Pounds 
of  Comfits :  you  will  know  when  they  are 
coated  enough  with  Sugar,  by  their  becom- 
ing as  large  as  you  would  have  them.  There 
is  no  certain  Rule,  but  our  own  Fancies,  for 
the  Size  of  them.  Note,  Till  they  are  as 
you  would  have  them,  caft  on  more  melted 
Sugar,  as  at  firft,  and  keep  them  ftirring  and 
fhaking  in  the  Pan,  drying  them  well  after 
every  Coat  of  Sugar. 

If  you  would  have  ragged  or  rough  Com- 
fits, make  your  Sugar  fo  liquid,  that  it  will 
run  from  the  Ladle  y  and  let  it  fall  upon  the 
Seeds  about  a  Foot  and  a  half  high.  Let  it 
be  very  hot,  for  the  hotter  it  is,  the  rougher 
Will  be  your  Comfits  5  and  for  all  that,  the 
Comfits  will  not  take  fo  much  Sugar  as  one 
may  imagine  from  their  Appearance.  Put 
on  at  each  time  only  one  Ladle- full,  and  in 
ten  times  repeating  it  your  Comfits  will 
be  perfeftly  well  coated. 

For 


Part  11.       DiREefOR*  45^ 

lor  plain  Comfits;  let  not  your  melted 
Sugar  be  too  hot  at  firft,  nor  too  thick  5  nei- 
ther pour  it  on  the  Seeds  too  high  :  but  the 
lafl:  two  or  three  Coverings  may  be  thicker 
and  hotter. 

As  for  Coriander^Seeds,  which  are  large, 
three  Pounds  of  Sugar  will  only  cover  a 
quarter  of  a  Pound  of  them. 

While  your  are  at  work,  you  fhould  keep 
your  melted  Sugar  in  good  Temper,  that  it 
may  not  gather  into  Lumps,  or  burn  to  the 
bottom  of  the  Pan  5  and  to  prevent  its  grow^ 
ing  too  thick  at  any  time,  put  to  it  a  fpooa- 
ful  or  two  of  Water,  gently  ftirring  it  now 
and  then  with  your  Ladle,  keeping  your 
Fire  very  clear  under  your  Pan.  When  youn 
Comfits  are  made,  put  them  upon  Papers  ia 
Difhes,  and  fet  them  before  the  Fire,  or  in 
a  declining  Oven,  which  will  make  them 
look  of  a  Snow  white  5  when  they  are  coq1;» 
put  them  in  Boxes,  or  in  cryftal  Bottles. 

Ta  make.  Comfits  of  various  Colours.  Fr.om\ 

the  fyme, 

IF  you  would  have  your  Comfits  of  a  red 
Colour,  infufe  fomered  Saunders  in  the 
Water  till  it  is  deep  colour'dienough ;  or  elfe 
take  fome  Cochineel,  and  infufe  it  till  the 
Liquor  is  red  enough  j  or  put  fome  Syrup 
of-  Mulberries  with  Water  to.the  Sugar. 

I  If 


48         "The  Country  Ladys 

If  of  a  yellow  Colour  5  ufe  Saffron  in 
Water,  which  you  are  to  mix  with  the  Su- 


gar. 


If  Green  i  take  the  Juice  of  Spinach,  and 
boil  it  with  the  Sugar  :  fo  will  your  Comfits 
be  of  the  feveral  Colours  above-mention'd. 

To  preferve  Orange  and  Lemon-Peels  in 
Jelly,     From  the  fame 

CUT  fome  of  the  faireft  Oranges  and 
Lemons  in  halves  5  then  fcoop  out  all 
the  Pulp  and  Inlide,  and  boil  them  in  feve- 
ral Waters  till  they  are  fo  tender,  that  you 
may  pafs  a  Straw  through  them  5  then  walh 
them  in  cold  Water. 

Boil  then  the  following  Preparation : 
'VIZ,,  The  Quantity  pf  a  Quart  of  Water 
to  every  Pound  of  Peel ;  and  in  it  fome  thin 
Slices  of  Golden-Pippins,  or  Golden  Rennets, 
till  the  Wattr  becomes  flippery.  Then  to 
this  Water,  add  as  much  Sugar  as  will  boil 
at  to  a  ftrong  Syrup  5  then  put  in  your  Peels 
and  fcald  them,  and  fet  them  by  till  the 
Day  following,  and  boil  them  again  till  the 
Syrup  will  jelly.  Then  put  your  Peels  into 
your  Glaifes,  and  put  into  your  Syrup  the 
Juice  of  three  large  Oranges,  and  one  Lemon 
ttrain  d,  and  boil  it  till  it  will  make  a  ftiff 
Jelly,  and  pour  it  upon  your  Peels.  When 
this  is  quite  cold,  then  put  Papers  over  the 
Glaffes,   and  keep  them  in  a  dry  Place. 

You 


Part  II.         Director*  49 

You  may  alfo  pare  the  Rinds,  in  Rings 
or  Slices,  and  boil  them  as  before  j  and  in 
every  refped  treat  them  as  you  are  direded 
to  preferve  the  halves  of  Oranges. 

To  preferve  Orange-Plowers  in  Jelly. 

GATHER  your  Orange-Flowers,  in 
the  Morning  early,  when  they  are 
juft  open,  and  take  the  Leaves  of  them. 
Boil  thefe  gently  in  two  or  three  Waters, 
palling  them  every  time  through  a  Sieve : 
Ihift  the  Waters  often,  to  take  out  the  too 
great  bitternefs,  but  don't  boil  them  too 
foft,  nor  to  lofe  their  Whitenefs.  When 
this  is  done,  make  a  ftrong  jelly 'd  Syrup  with 
Water  and  fine  Sugar,  and  add  fome  Juice 
of  Lemon  or  Orange  to  it  5  then  pour  it  on 
the  Leaves  of  the  Orange-Flowers  j  and 
when  it  is  cold,  cover  your  GlafTes  with  Pa- 
per. M.B,  You  may  thicken  your  Syrup 
with  the  Pulp  of  Pippins. 

Lemon-C^y^-fi*.    From  Mrs,  Anne  Shepperd 
of  Norwich. 

TAKE  out  the  Pulp  of  Lemons,  as 
little  bruis'd  as  poflible;  then  boil 
fome  Sugar  to  a  candied  height,  and  put  to 
it  the  Pulp  and  Juice,  and  ftir  it  quickly  ^ 
then  put  it  into  a  Stove  or  into  hot  Sand. 
When  you  obferve  that  it  begins  to  candy 
on  one  fide,    then  turr^  them  out  of  the 

E  Glaffes 


50         T^e  Country  Ladys 

Glaffes  with  a  wet  Knife  oa  the  other  fide, 
and  let  that  candy  too,  in  the  fame  manner  j 
when  all  is  done,  put  them  in  a  Box  between 
Papers,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  Place. 

Tripe  of  Eggs.     From  Mr,  Pontaine. 

TAKE  the  Whites  of  Eggs,  and  beat 
them  very  well  in  a  Porringer  5  pre- 
pare then  fome  hot  Water  and  Vinegar  with 
a  little  Salt,  and  then  put  in  the  Eggs,  till 
they  are  hard  5  then  cut  them  in  pieces  about 
an  Inch  fquare,  and  then  take  fome  White 
Wine,  and  as  much  Water  and  fome  Salt* 
Put  this  in  a  Pan,  and  heat  it  over  the  Fire 
with  a  little  Parfley,  an  Onion  and  fome 
Spice  i  when  it  is  hot,  ferve  it  up  with  But- 
ter and  Muftard,  and  it  will  eat  like  Tripe : 
or  elfe  you  may  ferve  it  like  a  Ragoufl:,  with 
the  following  Sauce,-  'viz. 

Sauce  for  the  Artificial  Tripe  in  Ragouft, 
From  the  fame, 

AKE  flrong  Gravey  made  of  Beef,  and 
the  Ingredients  which  are  mentioned 
in  the  drawing  of  Gravey.  Warm  it  with 
a  little  White  Wine,  and  thicken  the  Sauce 
with  burnt  Butter  :  then,  when  the  Eggs 
are  warm'd^  pour  the  Sauce  over  them. 

Bacon 


^art  il.         DiRECtoRo  51 

Bacon  Froize,  or  Fraife.     From  Mrs,  Brad- 
bury. 

CUT  fat  Bacon  in  fmall Pieces,  about 
an  Inch  long,  and  then  prepare  ten 
or  a  dozen  Eggs  well  beat  5  put  in  a  little 
Milk,  fonie  Spice,  at  pleafure,  and  fome 
Flour  i  then  put  fome  Lard  or  Seam  of 
an  Hog  into  a  Pan,  and  make  it  very  hoti 
and  when  it  is  fo,  pour  in  the  Mixture,'  and 
clap  a  ^difh  over  it,  after  you  have  thrown 
fome  of  the  Seam  upon  it.  When  the  Froize 
is  done  enough  on  one  fide,  turn  it  with  the 
Difli,  and  fry  it  till  it  is  quite  enough.  Then 
ferve  it  with  a  garnifh  of  fliced  Lemons 
and  a  little  Butter,  jfirfl  letting  it  drain.  ^ 

Clary  and  Eggs.     From  the  fame, 

'nr^  AKE  eight  or  ten  Eggs;  beat  them 
Jl  well  in  a  Porringer  5  theft  take  fome 
Clary  Leaves,  and  chop  them  fmall  j  add  a 
little  Pepper  and  Salt,  and  fome  Onion  chopt 
fmall.  This  Mixture  muft  be  fry'd  in  hot 
Lard  or  Hog-Seam,  and  ferve  it  with  Slices 
of  Lemon. 

To  ftew  a  Pig.     From  the  fame, 

ROAST  a  Pig  till  it  is  hot  5  then  talce 
off  the  Skin  and  cut  it  in  pieces ;  then 
take  fome  White  Wine  and  good  Gravey, 
and  ftcw  it  with  an  Onion,  fome  Pepper, 

E  %  Salt^ 


52         T'he  Country  Ladys 

Salt,  fome  Nutmeg,  a  little  fweet  Marjo- 
ram, and  fome  Elder  Vinegar,  with  fome 
Butter  5  and  when  it  is  enough,  lay  it  up- 
on Sippits,  and  garnifh  with  diced  Lemon. 

Tojiew  a  Pig  another  way.  From  the  fame. 

ROAST  ^  Pig  till  you  can  take  off 
the  Skin  j  cut  it  then  in  fmall  pieces, 
and  ftew  it  in  White  Wine,  with  a  bunch  of 
fweet  Herbs,  an  Onion,  fome  Pepper  and 
Salt,  a  few  Cloves,  or  a  little  fweet  Mar- 
joram powder'd.  When  it  is  enough,  ftrain 
off  the  Liquor  it  was  boiFd  in,  and  in  fome 
of  that  put  fome  Mufhrooms,  and  thicken 
it  with  Cream,  and  it  will  make  an  excel- 
lent Difh.  You  may  garnifh  it  with  fliced 
Lemon  and  pickled  Barberries. 

To  make  a  FricafTee  of  Sheep  Trotters. 

CLEAN  them  very  well  from  the  Hair  5 
then  wafh  them  in  Vinegar  and  Wa- 
ter 5  then  take  out  the  Bones,  and  boil 
them  in  Salt  and  Water  with  a  little  Le- 
mon-Peel. When  they  are  hot,  give  them 
either  of  the  following  Sauces.  For  a  white 
Sauce,  take  the  following :  viz. 

Take  fome  Water,  with  fome  Salt,  a  few 
fweet  Herbs,  fome  whole  Pepper,  fome  Le- 
mon-Peel and  a  bit  of  Horfe-Radifh,  a  Shal- 
lot, and  a  little  White  Wine.  When  it  is 
ftrong  enough  relifh^d,  then  ftrain  it  off,  and 

take 


Part  IL       Director.  53 

take  a  little  of  it,  and  mix  it  with  Butter 
to  thicken  it,  or  Cream  would  do  better,  a- 
bout  half  a  Pint :  pour  this  over  the  Sheeps 
Trotters  with  a  few  Capers,  and  ferve  it  up 
with  Slices  of  Lemons. 

A  brown  Fricaflee  of  Sheeps  Trotters^ 

DRESS  them  as  before,  and  when  they 
are  fit  for  Sauce,  then  take  fome 
Hogs  Lard,  and  make  it  very  hot  in  a  Pan, 
then  put  in  your  Trotters,  when  they  are 
well  covered  with  Flour,  and  when  they 
are  done  enough,  pour  over  them  a  Sauce 
made  of  Gravey,  fome  Claret  and  fome 
Muihrooms  thickned  with  burnt  Butter. 
This  will  make  a  good  brown  Fricafiee  5  and 
ferve  it  up  with  a  garnifh  of  Lemon  fliced. 
Barberries  pickled,  fome  rafpings  of  Bread 
lifted,  and  toafted  before  the  Fire. 

To  make  a  Lumber- y/^.    ir^?^  Exeter. 

TAKE  a  Pound  of  lean  Veal,  free  from 
Strings,  fhred  it  very  fmall,  feafon  it 
with  Cloves  and  Mace  powder'd,  fome  pow- 
der of  dry'd  fweet  Herbs,  fome  Lemon- 
Peel  grated,  fome  Pepper  and  Salt,  three 
large  fpoonfulls  of  grated  Bread,  a  little 
Juice  of  Lemon,  and  five  or  fix  butter'd 
Eggs,  Mix  thefe  Ingredients  well  together 
into  a  Pafte  or  as  a  farced  Meat  for  Balls  a- 

E  3  bout 


54         ^^  Country  Ladys 

bout  the  Bignefs  of  fmall  Wallnuts ;  then 
take  two  or  three  large  Veal  Sweat-breads, 
and  cut  them  in  pieces ;  then  provide  a  Pint 
of  Muihroom  Buttons  well  cleaned,  and 
theYolksof  eight  hard  Eggs  cut  in  halves,  a 
dozen  Coxcombs  well  fcalded  and  cleanM  : 
lay  thefe  with  a  feafoning  of  Pepper  and 
Salt  in  a  good  Pafte  that  covers  the  bottom 
of  your  Difh ,  firfl:  laying  bits  of  Butter  on 
the  Pafte  at  the  Bottom.  Some  will  put 
about  half  a  Pound  of  Currans  into  this  Pye ; 
but  every  one  to  their  Fancy.  When  your 
Ingredients  are  difpofed  in  your  Difh,  lay 
on  about  four  Ounces  of  Marrow,  and  the 
quantity  of  fix  Ounces  of  Butter,  and  then 
clofe  it. 

Juft  before  you  fet  it  in  the  Oven,  pour 
into  your  Pye  half  a  Pint  of  Watery  and  as 
foon  as  you  take  it  out,  pour  in  half  a  Pint 
pf  White  Wine  warm'd,  and  ferve  it  hot. 

To  make  Orange  or  Lemon  Tarts,    From 
Mrs,  J.  S. 

TAKE  the  Rinds  of  half  a  fcore  O- 
ranges  or  Lemons,  and  fait  them 
four  Hours;  then  boil  them  in  four  o^ 
five  Waters  till  they  are  tender,  and  beat 
them  in  a  -Marble  Mortar  till  they  are  re-^ 
duced  to  a  Pulp ;  then  fqueeze  in  the  Juice 
of  as  many  of  the  Oranges  or  Lemons  as 
you  think  fit,  and  fweeten  the  whole  very 

well 


Part  II.       Director.  55 

well  with  fine  Sugar,  and  boil  it  till  it  is 
thick,  ftirring  it  while  it  boils,  that  it  may 
not  burn  5  then  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  cold, 
and  put  it  into  your  Pafte.  When  you 
ferve  it,  drew  fine  Sugar  over  it.  Serve  it  cold. 

To  makeLcmonCheefecakes.From  il/rj.M.N. 

GRATE  the  Rind  of  a  large  Lemon 
into  the  Yolks  of  eight  raw  Eggs,  be- 
ing firft  very  well  beat  5  then  add  a  quar- 
ter of  a  Pound  of  fine  Sugar  well  beaten 
and  fifted,  and  f  jur  Ounces  of  frefh  Butter  > 
warm  thefe  gently  over  a  Fire,  keeping  it 
ftirring  all  the  while  till  it  begins  to  thickens 
then  take  it  off,  and  put  it  in  the  Coffins 
made  of  puff  Cruft,  and  bake  your  Cheefe- 
cakes  in  a  gentle  Oven. 

To  make  Orange  or   Lemon  Cheefecakes^ 
another  way.     From  the  fame. 

TAKE  the  Rind  of  a  large  Lemon  or 
Orange ,  and  boil  it  in  four  or  five 
Waters  till  it  is  quite  tender,  and  free  from 
its  Bitternefs ,  then  either  fnred  it  or  beat 
it  very  fine  in  a  Marble  Mortar  with  the 
Yolks  of  eight  hard  Eggs,  fix  Ounces  of 
Loaf- Sugar  finely  powder'd,  and  a  fpoon- 
full  of  Oran2:e-Flower-Water :  mix  this 
then  with  as  much  Cream,  and  two  Eggs 
beat,  as  will  render  it  of  the  Confiftence  of 
Cheefecake-meat  before  it  is  baked  j  then  put 

JE  4  i% 


56  l^e  Country  Ladys 

it  into  your  Coffins,  and  bake  them  in  a 
gentle  Oven.  You  may  put  in  Currans  if 
you  pleafe,  but  they  are  generally  omitted  : 
however,  if  you  like  to  have  them,  let 
them  be  firft  plump'd  a  little  over  the  Fire 
in  Sugar  and  Water. 

The  beft  way  for  thefe  Cheefecakes  is  to 
make  the  Coffins  in  Patty-Pans,  and  fill  them 
with  the  Meat  near  an  Inch  thick. 

The  Proportions  mentioned  above  will 
ferve  to  dired  for  a  large  quantity. 

To  make  Cheefecakes.     From  Lady  G. 

TAKE  a  Quart  of  tender  Curd,  and 
drain  it  from  the  Whey  5  then  break 
it  fmall ;  then  take  a  quarter  of  an  Ounce 
of  Mace  finely  powder'd,  and  eight  Ounces 
of  fine  Sugar  fifted,  eight  Yolks  of  Eggs 
well  beaten,  four  Ounces  of  blanched  Al- 
monds beat  fine  in  a  Marble  Mortar  with 
Rofe- Water,  or  Orange-Flower- Water,  and 
grate  four  penny  Naples  Bifcuits  into  a  Pint 
of  Cream,  and  boil  them  together  over  a 
gentle  Fire,  ftirring  it  all  the  while  till  it  is 
as  thick  as  an  hafty  Pudding  ;  then  mix  with 
it  eight  Ounces  of  Butter,  and  put  it  to  the 
Curd,  but  not  too  hot :  mix  then  all  well 
together,  and  put  it  in  your  Pafte. 

A  Sorrel  Tart,     From  the  fame. 

ASH  fome  Spinach  and  Sorrel  Leaves 
in  two  or  three  Waters,  for  they 

are 


Part  IL        Director.  57 

are  apt  to  gather  Dirt  j  then  either  Ihred 
them,  and  fqueeze  the  Juice  out  through  a 
Cloth;,  or  elfe  beat  them  in  a  Mortar  of 
Marble,  and  ftrain  off  the  Juice  5  about  half 
a  Pint  of  Juice  will  be  enough  :  then  fhred 
into  it  about  a  Quart  meafure  of  the  fame 
Herbs,  and  add  fix  Ounces  of  fine  Sugar 
beaten,  and  fome  Spice,  with  the  Yolks  of 
fix  hard  Eggs  bruifed,  and  well  mix'd  with 
it,  and  two  Eggs  raw  well  beaten  5  then 
put  in  half  a  Pint  of  Cream,  flirring  it  well, 
and  put  it  in  a  Pafte,  then  bake  it  in  a  very 
gentle  Oven.  When  it  is  done,  iift  on  fome 
fine  Sugar,  and  garnifh  with  Orange  and  Le- 
mon diced  5  you  may  put  in  fome  Orange- 
Flower- Water,  if  you  think  convenient. 

To  make  Umble  7ye,     From  Mr.  Thomas 
Fletcher  of  Norwich. 

TAKE  the  Umbles  of  a  Deer  and 
boil  them  tenderly,  and  when  they 
are  cold,  chop  them  as  fmall  as  Meat  for 
minc'd  Pyes,  and  flired  to  them  as  much 
Beef-Suet,  fix  large  Apples,  half  a  Pound  of 
Sugar,  a  Pound  of  Currans,  a  little  Salt, 
and  as  much  Cloves,  Nutmeg  and  Pepper 
powder'd  as  you  fee  convenient  5  then  mix 
them  well  together,  and  when  they  are  put 
into  the  Pafte,  pour  in  half  a  Pint  of  Sack, 
the  Juice  of  two  Lemons  and  an  Orange  : 
and  when  this  is  done,  clofe  the  Pye,  and 
when  it  is  baked,  ferveit  hot  to  the  Table. 

To 


5  8  T!he  Country  Ladys 

To  Stew  Peaches.     From  the  fame. 

TAKE  Peaches  when  they  are  fo  ripe 
that  they  begin  to  fmell  3  then  pare 
them  and  flit  them,  and  the  Sorts  I  recom- 
xnend  will  leave  the  Stones.  Put  thefe  in 
a  Silver  Plate,  or  on  fuch  a  one  as  will  not 
communicate  any  ill  tafte  to  them,  and 
pour  over  them  a  Syrup  made  of  Pippins, 
Water  and  Sugar  boil'd  till  it  is  a  Jelly, 
and  add  a  little  White  Winci  then  flew 
them  gently  over  a  clear  Fire  till  they  are 
tender  5  and  ferve  them  with  fine  Sugar 
fifted  upon  them.  In  fome  Cafes  they  pour 
Cream  upon  them. 

Red  Peach  Tarts.     From  the  fame, 

TAKE  your  Peaches,  as  before  direft- 
ed,  and  order  them  as  you  did  be- 
fore  in  paring  them  and  flitting  them  5  then 
lay  them  into  the  Coffins,  and  when  you 
have  fifted  on  them  fome  fine  powder'd 
Loaf-Sugar,  pour  over  them  fome  Syrup 
of  Rafpbcrries  or  Mulberries,  and  bake  them 
gently  :  they  will  be  tender  and  very  highly 
flavoured,  if  you  put  Rafpbcrries  to  them, 
and  finely  coloured  5  but  to  have  them  more 
of  their  own  Tafte,  put  Syrup  of  Mulber- 
ries to  them,  and  they  will  be  finely  co- 
loured. The  Coffins  or  Crufl  ought  to  be 
made  of  melting  Pafte,  with  fine  Sugar  in  it. 

Bitters 


Part  II.        Director,  59 

Bitters  to  be  drank  with  Wine. 

TAKE  a  Quart  of  clean  Spirit,  or 
good  Brandy,  and  put  into  it  an 
Ounce  of  Gentian  Root  fliced,  one  Ounce 
and  a  half  of  dry'd  Orange-Peel,  and  one 
Drachm  of  Virginia  Snake-Root,  add  to 
thisjialfa  Drachm  of  Cochineel,  and  half  a 
Prachm  of  Loaf- Sugar;  which  laft  will 
heighten  the  Bitter  to  admiration.  A  little 
of  this  Bitter  in  a  Glafs  of  White  Wine 
creates  an  Appetite. 

To  Stew  Wild-Ducks.     From  Amfterdam.^ 

WHEN  your  Ducks  are  ready  prepared 
for  the  Fire,  rub  their  Infide  with 
Pepper,  Salt,  and  a  little  powder  of  Cloves, 
a  Shallot  or  two,  with  a  lump  of  Butter  in 
the  Belly  of  each  of  them;  then  lay  them 
in  an  earthen  glazed  Pan,  that  will  juft 
I  hold  them,  and  put  three  Quarters  of  a 
Pound  of  Butter  under  and  over  your  Ducks: 
then  pour  in  a  Pint  of  Vinegar,  and  as 
much  Water  with  fome  Salt,  Pepper,  feme 
Lemon-Peel,  fome  Cloves  whole,  a  bunch 
of  fweet  Herbs,  and  covering  the  Pan  clofe, 
let  them  flew  three  or  four  Hours.  Then  pafs 
the  Liquor  through  a  Sieve,  and  pour  it 
over  your  Ducksj  and  ferve  them  hot  with 
garnifh  of  Lemon  fliced  and  Rafpings  of 

Bread 


6o         The  Country  Ladys 

Bread  fifted.  This  Method  fervcs  likewife  for 
Eafterlings,  Widgeons,  Teal  and  fuch  like. 

To  Stew  a  falted  Brisket  of  Beef.     From 
Mr,  La  Fontaine. 

TO  a  Pound  of  common  Salt,  put 
one  Ounce  of  Salt-Petre,  and  rub 
your  Beef  well  with  it ,  and  let  it  lie  a 
Week  5  then  lard  the  Skin  of  it  with  Bacon- 
Fat,  and  lay  it  in  a  Stew-pan  that  will  fhut 
clofe.  Cut  a  Lemon  in  half  with  its  Rind, 
and  lay  a-part  on  each  fide  the  Beef;  then 
put  in  a  bunch  of  fweet  Herbs,  fome  whole 
Cloves,  half  a  Nutmeg  fliced,  fome  Pepper, 
an  Onion,  or  three  or  four  Shallots,  half  a 
Pound  of  Butter,  a  Pint  of  Claret,  and  a 
Quart  of  Water  \  fhut  your  Pan  clofe,  and 
let  it  ftew  gently  five  or  fix  Hours  till  it  is 
very  tender. 

Then  having  fome  boiFd  Turnip  cut  in 
dice,  flour  them  and  fry  them  brown  j  then 
pour  off  the  Liquor  the  Beef  was  ftew'd  in, 
and  having  paffed  it  through  a  Sieve,  thicken 
it  with  burnt  Butter,  and  mix  your  fry'd 
Turnips  with  it,  and  pour  all  together  over 
your  Beef  5  garnifh  with  Lemon  fliced,  and 
Rafpings  of  Bread  fifted,  and  ferve  it  hot, 
it  is  an  excellent  Difh. 

Heck  ^Mutton  ragoud.     From  the  fame, 

TAKE  a  Neck  of  Mutton  clean  from 
Bones,  and  ftrip  it  from  the  Skin ; 

fait 


Part  II.        Director.  6i 

fait  it  a  little,  and  let  it  lie  till  the  next  day. 
In  the  mean  while,  bake  the  Bones  with  a 
llice  or  two  of  fat  Bacon,  a  Faggot  of  fweet 
Herbs,  fome  Spice,  a  little  Salt  and  fomc 
Lemon-Peel,    with  half  a  Pint  of  Water, 
and  half  a  Pint  of  Claret,  to  cover  them,  then 
lay  your  Mutton  in  a  Pan,  and  w^hen  your 
baked  Gravey  is  paffed  through  a  Sieve,  pour 
it  into  the  Pan  to  the  Mutton  j    but  firft  lard 
the  fat  Part  of  the  Mutton  with  Lemon-Peel, 
and  the  leaner  Part  with  Fat  of  Bacon  ;  then 
ftrew  fome  grated  Bread  and  Spice  over 
the  Mutton,  which  will  not  be  covered  with 
the  baked   Gravey ;   and  when  you  have 
clofed  your  Pan,  ftew  it  gently  four  Hours. 
Then  lay  it  in  the  Difh,  and'when  you  have 
thickned  the  Sauce  with  burnt  Butter,  put  a 
Pint  of  Mufhroom  Buttons,  either  frefh  and 
parboird,  or  pickled,  into  it,  and  tofs  them 
up  till  they  are  hot  j  then  pour  them  all  over 
your  Meat,  and  ferve  it  hot,  garnifh'd  with 
Lemon  fliced,  red  Beet-Roots  pickled  and 
iliced,  Capers,  and  Horfe-Radifli  fcrap'd. 

Stew'd  Beef  in  Soup.     From  the  fame,^ 

TAKE  four  Pounds  of  Beef,  indiffe- 
rently lean,  and  cut  it  in  eight  or 
ten  Pieces.  Put  thefe  into  a  Pan  that  may 
be  clofe  covered,  and  then  about  three  Quarts 
of  Water,  and  a  Pint  of  White  Wine,  fome 
Pepper  and   Salt,    fome  Powder  of  dry'd 

fwecr 


62  'The  Country  Ladys 

fweet  Marjoram,  a  few  Cloves  powder'd; 
half  a  dozen  fmall  Turnips  cut  in  Dice,  a 
Carrot  or  two  cut  in  the  fame  manner,  the 
white  Part  of  a  large  Leek  fhred  fmall,  fome 
Leaves  of  white  Beet,  two  Heads  of  Sallerjr 
fhred,  and  aPieceof  Bread- Cruft burnt  5  co- 
ver clofe,  and  fte  w  this  for  fix  Hours,  and  ferve 
it  hot.  You  may  garnifh  with  Lemon  (liced^ 

To  drefs  the  Liver  and  Crow  of  an  Hog. 
From  Mrs,  Johnfoni;?^  Devereux- Court. 

HOWEVER  this  Difh  may  feem  di- 
fpifeable,   yet  if  it  is  well  dreifed,  few 
of  the  favoury  Difhes  exceed  it.  The  Liver 
and  Crow  of  an  Hog,  with  the  Sweet-Breads, 
fhould  be  ufed  prefently  after  the  Hog  is 
kiird,  and  the  Liver  cut  in  Lumps,  twice 
as  big  as  a  Walnut,  and  not  in  thin  Pieces 
as  moft  do  i  for  then  they  will  become  hard 
in  the  Drefling.  The  Crow  muft  likewife  be 
cut  in  Slips  about  the  breadth  of  two  Fingers, 
and  fo  muft  the  Sweet-Breads  i  then  parboil 
the  Pieces  of  Liver,  and  make  a  thick  Bat- 
ter of  Flour,  Water  and  Eggs,  mixing  a  lit- 
tle Salt  with  it,  and  prepare  fome  red  Sage 
fhred  very  fine  j  fome  grated  Bread,  and  fome 
Pepper  beaten :    mix    thefe  together,    and 
when  you  have  fome  Butter,  or  Lard,  very 
hot  in  your  Frying-Pan,  dip  the  Crow  and 
Sweet-Bread  in  the  Batter,  and  immediately 
dip  your  Pieces  in  the  Mixture  of  Bread, 

Sage, 


Part  11.       Director.  63 

Sage,  &c.  and  throw  them  into  the  Pan. 
When  thefe  are  enough,  lay  them  to  drain 
before  the  Fire,  and  then  dip  the  Bits  of 
Xiver  into  the  Batter  5  and  after  that,  into 
the  crumb'd  Bread,  and  give  them  a  turn 
or  two  in  the  Pan,  over  a  quick  Fire :  then 
drain  them  like  the  others,  and  ferve  them 
hot  with  Butter  and  Muftard. 

Sea- Larks  or  Oyfters,    roajied  on  Spits  or 
Skewers.     From  the  fame. 

TAKE  large  Oyfters,  and  wa(h  thent- 
from  Dirt  5  then  dip  them  in  Batter 
made  with  Milk,  Flour,  Powder  of  Mace, 
fome  Eggs  and  a  little  Pepper  5  then  dip 
them  again  in  Crumbs  of  Bread  grated,  and 
fome  Mace  powder'd,  and  put  them  on  a 
fine  Skewer,  broad-fide  to  broad-fide,  or 
upon  Silver  Lark  Spits  5  and  when  they  are 
at  the  Fire,  flour  them  well,  and  bafte  them 
with  Butter  till  they  are  enough.  Prepare 
for  them,  while  they  are  Roafting,  the  fol- 
lowingSauce :  Take  Crumbs  of  Bread,  a  little 
Pepper  and  Salt,  and  a  Blade  or  two  of  Mace 
with  a  little  Nutmeg,  and  boil  them  in  fome 
of  the  Oyfter-Liquor  till  the  Bread  is  tender 
and  like  a  Pulp,  and  taftes  well  of  the  Spice  i 
then  put  in  a  Glafs  of  White  Wine,  and 
mix  it  well,  and  ferve  it  hot,  in  a  Plate, 
with  the  roafted  Oyfters  over  the  Sauce. 

A 


64-         7^^  Country  Ladys 

A  Shoulder  of  Mutton  or  Lamb,  roajied 
with  a  Farce  of  Oyfters.  From  Mr. 
Norman,  late  Cook  in  Norfolk. 

*^1"^  A  K  E  a  Shoulder  of  Mutton  or  Lamb, 
J^  of  the  fmalleft  fize,  and  flip  up  the 
Skin  almoft  to  the  Leg-Joint  5  then  cut  the 
Flefh  from  the  Bone,  on  the  upper  fide,  and 
mince  it  very  fmall,  take  part  of  that,  and  as 
many  Oyfters  parboiFd  without  their  Fins, 
and  chopt  a  little  5  then  have  fome  Mace 
powder'd,  and  a  little  Salt  and  Pepper,  with 
Ibme  grated  Lemon-Peel,  and  fome  grated 
Bread,  with  the  Yolk  of  an  Egg,  or  two  5 
and  make  this  into  a  Pafte,  and  lay  it  into 
the  Places  where  the  Flefh  was  taken  out  5 
and  you  may  add  to  this  Pafte  a  little  Fat 
of  Bacon  cut  fmall,  or  a  little  Butter.  Then 
skewer  the  Skin  on  all  fides,  over  the 
Farced  Meat,  and  lard  the  Skin  and  the 
flefhy  Parts  below  with  Lemon-Peel,  and 
fome  w^ill  lard  in  Lemon-Thyme  likewife. 
Then  fix  it  on  a  Spit  with  Skewers,  and 
roaft  it,  well  bafted  with  Butter  and  well 
floured.  The  Sauce  for  this  fliould  be  ftew'd 
Oyfters,  fome  Mace,  ftew'd  Muflirooms, 
a  little  Gravey,  and  fome  White- Wine, 
with  Crumbs  of  Bread;  then  ferve  it  hot, 
garniih'd  with  fliced  Lemon,  and  Red  Beet- 
Root  pickled  and  fliced. 

2  Stewd 


Part  IL       Director..  65 

Stew'd  Vealj  with  white  Sauce  5  from  the 

fame, 

TAKE  fome  Lean  of  a  Leg  of  Veal, 
and  eut  it  in  thick  Slices,  tlien  ftew 
them  in  Water  and  a  little  Salt,  with  fomc 
Mace,  and  a  little  Nutmeg,  and  a  Bunch  of 
fweet  Herbs.  When  they  are  almoft  ftew'd 
enough  with  the  Gravey  in  them,  put  to 
the  Liquor  they  were  ftew'd  in,  a  Giafs  or  two 
of  White  Wine,  and  a  little  Lemon  Juice^ 
pr  Orange  Juice,  with  a  little  Mufhroom 
Gravey,  or  Liquor  of  ftew'd  Mufhrooms. 
When  this  is  done,  have  fome  Mufhroom 
Buttons,  that  have  been  ftew'd  white  in 
their  own  Liquor,  and  Spice,  with  a  Bay- 
Leafs  then  ftrain  the  Liquor,  and  put  fome 
in  the  Sauce  :  and  when  it  is  hot,  put  fomc 
thick  Cream  to  it,  with  the  Mufhrooms; 
and  then  ferve  it  hot  with  a  Garnifh  of  flieed 
Lemon. 

Hard  Peafe-Soup.     From  the  fame. 

THERE  are  many  ways  of  making 
Peafe-Soup.  In  great  Families  it  is 
fometimes  made  of  Beef,  but  a  Leg  of  Pork 
is  much  preferable  5  and  in  fmallcr  Families 
the  Bones  of  Pork,  as  they  are  called.  And 
the  Shin  and  Hock  of  a  Leg  of  Pork,  after 
they  have  made  SaufageSj  may  be  had  at 
the  Saufage-Houfes :  thcfe  boil'd  for  a  long 

F  time^ 


66         7^^  Country  Ladys 

time,  will  afford  a  ftrong  Jelly  Broth,  but 
they  are  hard  to  be  met  with.  However, 
when  they  are  to  be  had,  you  have  the  Di- 
reftions  for  a  Broth.  Then  pafs  the  Broth, 
hot,  through  a  Sieve,  and  put  into  it  half 
a  Pint  of  Hit  Peafe  to  a  Qiiart  of  Liquor ; 
or  a  Qiiart  of  whole  Peafe  to  three  Quarts 
of  Liquor.  The  Difference  between  one 
and  the  other,  is,  the  flit  Peafe  will  open 
in  the  Liquor,  when  we  boil  it,  and  the 
other  ought  to  be  broken  through  a  Cullen- 
der, when  they  are  boifd :  but  the  flit  Peafe" 
are  the  beft  j  and  when  you  put  them  inta 
the  Liquor  to  boil,  add  to  every  Quart  of 
Liquor  as  much  Sallery  as  you  think  pro- 
per, cut  fmall  5  fome  powder  of  dry'd  Mint, 
fome  powder  of  dry'd  fweet  Marjoram, 
fome  Pepper^  and  fome  Salt,  to  your  mind^^^ 
and  let  thefe  boil  till  the  Sallery  is  tender. 
This  is  to  be  done,  if  we  boil  a  Leg  of  Pork, 
after  the  Pork  is  out  of  the  Pot  j  but  if  we 
make  the  Soup  from  the  Bones,  boil  thefe 
Ingredients  afterwards  ifl  the  Liquor.  When 
you,  ferve  it,  put  a  French  Pvoie  in  the  mid- 
dle of  the  Dilh,  and  garnifli  the  Border  of 
the  Difli  with  rafp  d  Bread  fifted.  Some 
put  in  AU-fpice  powdefd,  which  is  very 
agreeable  :  and  one  might  add  the  Leaves  of 
white  Beets.  And  in  ferving,  put  in  toafled 
Bread,  cut  in  Dice  >  but  the  laft  is  out  of 
falLion. 


Part  II.       Director.  67 

To  make  green  ^zz'^.^-Tattagey  with  Milk. 
From  the  fame, 

'T"^  AKE  a  Quart  of  green  Peafe  flielFd^ 
\  and  boil  three  Quarts  or  two  Quarts 
of  Millc,  as  you  pleafe  to  have  them  thick 
with  Peafe,  and  add  fome  Pepper  largely- 
beaten;,  a  little  Salt,  fonie  dry'd  Mint,  and 
fweet  Marjoram  in  powder,  and  a  little 
whole  Spice  beaten.  Boil  thefe  together 
till  the  Cream  rifes,  and  then  flir  it, 
and  ferve  it  hot.  N.B,  The  Peafe  fhould 
be  boii'd  firft,  if  there  is  any  opportunity  5 
and  for  that  Reafon,  if  when  we  have  a 
Difh  of  Peafe,  Vv^e  leave  any,  they  may  be 
put  into  the  Milk,  and  boirdthe  Morning 
following;  and  indeed  it  is  the  belt  to  have 
the  Peafe  boird  firft. 

To  make  an   artificial   Crab   or   Lobfter. 
From  Mr.i.  ^Buckingham. 

ISuppofe  you  have  by  you  the  large  Shells 
of  Sea-Crabs  cleaned  5  then  take  part 
of  a  Calfs  Liver,  boil  it  and  mince  it  ve^ 
ry  fmall,  and  a  little  Anchovy  Liquor,  and 
but  very  little,  to  give  it  the  Fiih-tafte.  Mix 
it  well  with  a  little  Lemon  Juice,  fome 
Pepper,  and  fome  Salt,  with  a  little  Oil> 
if  you  like  it,  and  fill  the  Shells  with  it  i 
and  then  the  outfide  Parts  of  the  Liver,  be- 
mg  a  little  hard ,   will  feel  to  the  Mouth 

Fa  like 


68  "The  Country  LadyS 

like  the  Claws  of  the  Crab  broken  and 
pick'd,  and  the  inner  Parts  will  be  foft  and 
tender,  like  the  Body  of  a  Crab.  One  may 
ferve  this  cold,  and  it  will  deceive  a  good 
Judge,  if  you  do  not  put  too  much  of  the 
Anchovy  Liquor  into  it.  It  is  very  good 
cold ;  but  if  you  would  have  it  hot,  take 
tlie  following  Receipt. 

To  make  artificial  hot  buttefd  Sea-Crabs. 

HAVE  the  great^hells  of  Crabs  clean, 
and  prepare  fome  Liver,  as  before  ;  or 
if  you  cannot  get  Calf's  Liver,  get  a  Lamb's 
Liver,  or  a  young  Sheep's  Liver  will  do  to- 
lerably well.  Boilthefe,  and  fhred  them  as 
directed  before,  and  put  a  little  Anchovy 
Liquor  to  them  5  then  add  a  little  White 
Wine,  fome  Pepper  and  Salt  at  pleafure^ 
and  fome  other  Spice  at  diferetion,  with 
Butter  neceffary  to  make  it  mellow,  over  a' 
gentle  Fire,  or  a  little  Sallet  Oil,  if  you 
like  Oil.  Then  add  a  little  Lemon  Juice 
in  the  Shells,  flirting  the  Mixture  together. 
Then  ferve  them  up  hot  with  Lemon 
fliced. 

To  ?nake  artificial  Crabs.^      From  M.  De 
la  Port  of  Lyons  in  France. 

TAKE  fome  of  the  White  ofaroafted 
or  boil'd  Chicken's  Breaft,  and  fhred^ 
it  very  fmall  $  then  add  fome  Roots  of  Po- 
tatoes 


Part  II.         Director.  6g 

tatoes  boird  and  beat  into  Pulp.  Mix  tlicfe 
together,  and  grate  a  little  Lemon-Feel  up- 
on it,  and  add  a  little  Anchovy  Liquor  to  it, 
with  fome  Gil  5  and  put  a  little  Lemon- 
Juice  to  it,  or  Vinegar,  with  feme  Pepper 
and  Salt,  ferve  it  upon  Sippits,  garnifti'd 
with  fliced  Lemon.  Thefemay  be  butrcr'd 
in  Shells  as  the  Former,  but  the  firft  is  ra- 
ther the  beft. 

To  make  artificial  Lobfters.   From  the  fame. 

PRACTISE  the  fame  Method  with 
either  of  the  former  5  and  to  imitate 
the  Tail  of  the  Lobfter,  put  in  the  Tails  of 
Shrimps,  Buntings,  Prawns  or  Cray-fi-rn  5  the 
lad  cut  in  pieces,  and  ferve  them  either  np- 
pn  Sippets  in  a  Plate,  or  in  the  large  Shell 
of  the  Lobfter. 

N.B.  This  is  a  fort  of  Salmy,  or  Salmy- 
Gundy,  as  they  call  it  m  England ,  but  is 
very  much  like  the  Thing  we  want :  and  I 
think,  if  the  Shrimps,  or  others,  were  put 
into  the  firftj  it  would  make  it  better  than 
putting  in  the  Anchovy  Liquor  ;  but  if  they 
are  to  imitate  a  Crab,  they  muft,  (/'.  e.  the 
Shrimps  or  Prawns)  be  chopt  very  fmall. 

To  imitate  Cherry-Brandy,  without  Cher« 
ries,  very  Good, 

AKE  a  clean  Spirit,  or  fome  good 

Fr^/?^^  Brandy,  one  Gallon,  andin- 

F  3  fufe 


T 


^o  The  Country  Ladys 

fufe  in  it  the  Tops  of  Laurel,  one  good 
handful!  till  it  taftes  like  the  Kernels  of 
Cherries  \  then  put  in  a  quantity  of  Mul- 
berry Syrup,  enough  to  colour  it,  and  make 
it  pleafant  to  the  Tafte.  A  good  Judge  will 
not  find  the  difFcrcncc  between  the  Right 
and  the  Wrong.  N.B,  When  the  Brandy 
is  ftrong  enough  of  the  Laurel-Buds,  pour 
it  off. 

To  make  Cherry  Brandy.     From  Mr,  Cent' 

Livre. 

TAKE  black  Cherries,  when  they  are 
at  the  chcapeft,  and  pulling  them 
from  the  Stalks,  put  them  into  a  Cask  of 
Brandy,  a  Pound  to  each  Qiiart  of  Brandy, 
and  one  Pound  of  fine  Sugar  to  each  Gallon. 
Let  it  ftand  for  fome  time,  and  draw  it  off. 
It  will  be  very  rich. 

To  make  Ratafia.     From  the  fame. 

AKE  the  Kernels  of  Apricots,  to 
___  do  it  in  the  higheft  way,  about  one 
hundred  and  fifty,  and  bruife  them  a  little  5 
then  put  them  into  three  or  four  Qiiarts  of 
Brandy,  and  let  them  ftecp  four  or  five  Days : 
then  drain  them  off,  and  add  as  much  fine 
Sugar  powdered,  as  will  m.ake  it  fweetto  your 
Tafte.  If  you  find  that  the  Brandy  is  too 
ftrong  of  the  Kernels,  put  fome  more  Brandy 
to  it  before  you  fweeten  ir. 

Memo-m 


Part  IL         Director.  71 

Memorandum^  If  you  cannot  get  Apri- 
cot or  Peach-Stones,  enough  for  your ufcy 
you  may  ufe  the  Kernels  of  Plum-Stones^ 
Cherry-Stones,  or  Prunes,  and  they  will 
make  little  difference,  in  great  quantities^ 
Break  the  Shells,  and  put  in  Shells  and  all. 

To  make  Artificial  Ratafia. 

O   a  Gallon  of  Spirits  or  Brandy:,  put 

in  two  handfuls  of  the  Buds  of  young 

Laurel-Branches  5    infufe  this  till  the  Liquor 

ds  of  a  tafte  as  you  would  have  it :  then  pour 

:Oif  the  Liquor,  and  fweeten  it  to  your  Fancy 

with  fine  Sugar  powdcr'd.  This  is  a  \Yay  that 

a  Diftiller,    who  is  dead,  praftifcd  a   long 

while,    as  well  as  the  making  of  Gin,  or 

Geneva  Brandy^,    with  infufing  the  Tops  of 

-the  juniper  Plant  in  common  Spirits,  Thcfc 

I  told  him  of,    and  it  is  now  at   my  own 

difpofal,  and  therefore  give  it  to  the  World. 

The  P.atafia  tades  exadly  as  if  the  Kernels 

of     Apricot   or    Plum-Stones    had    been 

ufed. 

To  make  Salmy,  or  with  ns  Salmy-Gundy, 
From  Lady  M. 

"^  AK E  the  Breaft  of  a  Turkey,  a  Chic- 
ken, or  the  Lean  of  fome  Veal  that 
has  been  roafted  rather  than  boii'dj  but  if 
that  happens,  it  will  ftill  do.      But  liowe- 
vcr  it  is,  take  none  of  the  Skin,  nor  any 

F  4  irat. 


7  2         l^he  Country  Ladys 

P^t.  Mince  this  very  fmall  about  half  a 
Pound,  and  then  take  off  the  Skin  of  \ 
pickled  Herring,  and  mince  the  Flefh  of  it 
very  fmall,  or  for  want  of  that,  cut  the 
Flefh  of  fome  Anchovys  very  fmall  5  then 
cut  a  large  Onion  fmall,  an  Apple  or  twQ 
as  fmall  as  the  reft.  Mix  thefe  Meats  toge- 
ther, and  laying  them  in  little  Heaps,  three 
on  a  Plate,  fet  fome  whole  Anchovys  curl'd 
or  upright,  in  the  Middle,  andgarnifh  with 
fliced  Lemon,  Capers  and  other  Pickles, 
with  red  Beet-Roots  pickled  and  fliced.  This 
to  be  ferved  cold  j  and  when  you  eat  it,  ufe 
Oil,  Vinegar,  and  a  little  Muftard. 

To  ferve  up  fickkd  Herrings,    From  the 

fame. 

TAKE  large  pickled  Herrings,  takeoff 
the  Skin,  then  take  the  Flefh  from 
the  Bones,  on  each  fide,  all  in  one  piece, 
crofling  them  every  half-inch.  Then  lay 
the  Parts  next  the  Head,  in  the  middle  of 
the  Plate,  fpreading  their  Bodies  to  the  out- 
fide,  like  a  Star,  garnilhing  them  with  the 
Roots  of  red  Beets  fliced.  Lemon  fliced, 
and  Berberries  pickled.  This  is  commonly 
^aten  with  Vinegar,  and  Bread  and  Butter, 
but  Onion  and  Pepper  is  fomctimes  ufed. 


M?™^- 


Part  II.        Director. 


73 


Marmalade  ^Peaches.     From  the  fame. 

TAKE  Peaches,  well  grown  and  al- 
moft  ripe  5  pare  them,  and  take  their 
Elefh  clean  from  the  Stones.  Lay  them  with 
a  little  Water  into  a  Stew-Pan,  and  add 
three  Quarters  of  their  weight  of  fine  Sugar 
powdered.  Let  this  ftew  till  the  Peaches 
are  tender,  and  then  mafh  them  with  a 
Spoon,  letting  them  boil  gently  all  the  while, 
till  the  Whole  becomes  thick,  almofl:  like  a 
Pafte  5  then  take  it  out,  and  cool  it  in  a 
China  Difh,  or  earthen  glazed  Pan  5  and 
when  it  is  cold,  put  it  into  Glafles,  and  co- 
ver them  over  with  white  Paper. 

White  Peach" Ti^rfi*.     From  the  fame. 

AKE  fome  Coffins  of  fwect  Pafcc, 
_  _  and  when  they  are  gently  baked,  and 
cold,  fill  them  with  the  above-mcntion'd 
Marmalade  of  Peaches,  and  ferve  them. 

Apricots  preferv'd  for   Tarts.     From  the 

fame, 

TAKE  Apricots  of  the  largeft  kind. 
When  they  begin  to  turn  to  Ripc- 
nefs,  pare  them  and  difcharge  them  from 
the  Stones.  Cut  them  in  Halves,  and  (lew 
them  with  a  little  Water,  and  their  weidit 
of  fine  Sugar  powder'd.  Boil  thcfc  gently 
pver  a  clear  Charcoal  Fire,   till  the  Liquor 

becomes 


74  ^^  Country  Lady's 

becomes  of  the  Confidence  of  a  jeliy,  and 
the  Apricots  are  clear.  Then  when  they 
are  cool,  put  them  up  m  glazed  Gallypots, 
or  in  GlalTes.  If  you  ufe  them  for  Tarts, 
put  them  in  Coffins  of  fwect  Pade^,  and  co- 
ver then],  and  put  them  in  the  Oven,  till 
they  are  hot  through.  Then  ferve  them  with 
double-refined  Sugar  grated  over  them..  Thefe 
may  be  either  feiv'd  hot  or  cold.  The 
']Q\\y  of  this  kind,  in  the  Glafief.^  may  be 
ierv'd  as  a  Sweetmeat  in  a  Defert. 

Memorandum^  If,  when  thefe  Fruits  are 
ripe,  you  can  have  any  Apples  near  ripe, 
pare  them,  and  {lice  them  free  from  the 
Core,  and  ftew  them  in  as  much  Water  as 
will  cover  them,  and  their  weight  in  fine 
Sugar,  till  by  boiling  and  fiirring,  the  whole 
becomes  of  a  Jelly ,  then  in  this,  when  it  is 
clear,  ftew  your  Apricots,  or  Peaches,  till 
they  are  what  you  deiire.  M.B,  You  may 
always  colour  thefe  with  Syrup  of  Mulber- 
ries, which  gives  no  additional  Tafte. 

Tltims  to  make  Marmalade  of.^    Frmn  the 

fame. 

"^HERE  are  feveral  forts  of  Plums, 
which  are  fit  for  this  ufe.  And  though 
they  differ  in  colour,  that  is,  fomc  red  and 
fome  white,  yet  the  Marmalade  made  of 
any  of  them  will  be  white,  for  the  Colour 
is  only  in  the  Skins  and  that  if  it  was  to 

bo 


Part  II.        Director.  75 

be  ufed,  could  give  no  Tindure  ;  but  in  our 
Cafe,  we  do  not  want  it.  The  Sorts  arc  ci- 
ther the  Bonum  Magnum-,  as  it  is  calFd, 
which  is  a  large,  long,  red  Plum,  with  a 
Pulp  very  tender,  but  four,  when  it  is  raw 
from  the  Tree.  Another  is  a  large  Plum, 
rather  yellowifh  than  white,  when  it  is  ripe, 
and  of  the  former  Shape,  like  an  Egg,  which 
is  called  by  fome  the  Egg-Plum  ;  but  more 
particularly  the  white  Holland^lnm^  and  is 
{o  called  bv  the  Gardeners.  Thefc  two  have  a 
Flefh  and  Juice  much  like  one  another,  and 
make  afineShew  in  aDifli;,  by  way  of  Defcrt  5 
but  are  in  my  Opinion  only  fit  for  flev/ing. 
However,  the  Skins  will  part  eafily  from  'em, 
when  they  arc  ripe,  and  they  both  quit  the 
Stone  freely.  Take  thefc  and  peel  them,  and 
divide  them  ;  then  put  them  in  a  little  Water 
and  their  weight  of  fine  Sugar,  made  into  a 
Syrup,  over  a  gentle  Fire :  put  them  in  when 
the  Liquor  is  only  warm,  and  when  they 
are  covered  with  the  Syrup,  ftew  them  gent- 
ly, if  you  would  prcferve  them  in  their 
Shape  5  and  put  them,  with  the  Syrup,  into 
Glaffes  as  foon  as  they  are  clear,  or  elfe  mafri 
them  into  the  Syrup,  and  let  them  boil  till 
they  become  like  a  Pafte  5  keeping  all  ftirrinr^ 
while  they  are  over  the  Fire,  or  elfe  thcj 
will  burn  to  the  Pan.  This  Marmalade  is 
good  to  be  ferv'd  in  Glaffes,  as  a  Swect-mcat 
in  a  Defert,  or  to  be  put  into  Coffins  for 

Tarts 


T 


^S  \Che  Country  Ladys 

Tarts,  or  to  be  brought  upon  the  Table  m 
Saucers  among  the  other  Sweet-meats  in 
a  Defert. 

Tojlew  Cucumbers.     From  the  Devil- Zi^- 
'uerny  Fleet-ftreet. 

AKE  a  dozen  large  green  Cucum- 
bers, that  are  not  too  full  of  Seed| 
pare  them,  and  flice  them  5  then  take  two 
large  Onions^  and  flired  them  indifferently 
fmall.  Put  thefe  in  a  Sauce-Pan,  and  ict 
them  over  the  Fire  to  fteWj  with  as  much 
Salt  as  you  tliink  convenient  5  ftir  them  now 
and  then,  till  they  are  tender,  and  then 
pour  them  into  a  Cullender  to  drain  fronqi 
the  Water,  and  are  asydry  as  pollible  you 
can  make  them  5  then  flour  them,  and  put 
fome  Pepper  to  them.  After  this,  burn  fome 
Butter  in  aFrying-Panj  and  when  it  is  very 
hot,  put  in  your  Cucumbers,  and  ftir  theni 
continually  till  they  are  brov/n  5  then  put 
to  them  about  a  Gill  of  Claret  $  and  when 
that  is  well  mix'd  with  them,  ferve  them 
hot,  under  roaft  Mutton  or  Lamb ;  or  elfe, 
ferve  them  on  a  Plate,  upon  Sippits  fry'd 
and  dip'd  in  Mutton  or  Beef  Gravey. 

To  F^rr^- Cucumbers.     Fro7n  the  fame, 

TAKE  large  Cucumbers  and  pare  them, 
then  fcoop  out  all  the  Seeds,    firft 
putting  off  one  End  i  then  prepare  the  fol- 
lowing 


Fart  a.      D I R E  c  T  o  r.  77 

lowing  Farce  for  them.  Take  the  Hearts 
of  fome  Cabbage-Lettuce  ftew'd  tender  in 
Salt  and  Water ,  drain  them  well,  and  chop 
them  fmall,  and  cut  fome  Onion  very  fine, 
Ihred  a  little  Parfley  that  has  been  boird 
tender,  and  a  Mufhroom  pickled  5  and  add 
a  little  All- Spice  finely  powder'd,  and  fome 
Pepper,  a  little  Salt,  and  fome  Fat  of  Ba- 
con chopt  fmall.  Mix  thefe  well  together, 
with  the  Yolk  of  an  Egg  or  two,  according 
to  your  Qiiantity,  and  fluff  the  Cucumbers 
full  of  it.  Then  tie  the  Ends,  that  were  cut 
off  clofe,  with  Packthread,  and  flew  them 
in  Water  and  Salt  till  they  are  tender ;  then 
drain  them  and  flour  them,  and  fry  them 
brown  in  Hogs-Lard  very  hot,  and  let  them 
drains  then  take  off  the  Threads  that  hold 
them  together,  and  lay  them  in  your  Difh, 
and  pour  the  following  Sauce  over  them: 
'viz.  Take  Gravey  well  feafon'd,  and  as 
much  Claret  5  boil  thefe  together,  with  fonie 
Lemon-Peel,  and  All-Spice  j  and  thicken 
this  Sauce  with  burnt  Butter.  Thefe  are 
good  to  be  ferv'd  with  Mutton  Cutlets,  as 
well  as  alone. 

To  make  a  Shropfhire  Tye. 

TAKE  a  couple  of  Rabbits,  and  cut 
them  in  pieces  5    feafon  them  well 
With  Pepper  and  Salt  5  then  cut  fome  pieces 
gffat  Pork^  and  feafon  them  i^a  like  man- 
ner^ 


^8  ^a  Country  Ladys 

ncr.  Lay  thefe  into  your  Cruft,  with  forlid 
pieces  of  Butter,  upon  the  bottom  Crufl, 
and  clofe  your  Pye.  Then  pour  in  half  a 
Pint  of  Water,  and  red  Wine  mixt,  and 
bake  it.  Some  will  grate  the  beft  part  of 
a  Nutmeg  upon  the  Meat,  before  they  clofc 
the  Pye,  which  is  a  very  good  way.  This 
muft  be  ferv'd  hot. 

To  make  a  Shropfhire  7^^,    another  ivay^ 
From  LadyYi. 

AKE  Rabbits  and  Pork,  cut  and  fea- 
___  fon'd  as  above  $  then  m^ake  a  Farce 
of  the  Rabbits  Livers  parboiFd,  and  fhred 
fmall  5  fome  fat  Bacon  flired  fmall,  fome 
fv,/cet  Marjoram  powder'd>  fome  Pepper 
and  Salt,  and  made  into  a  Pafte,  with  the 
Yolks  of  Eggs  beaten  i  and  then  make  this 
into  Balls,  and  lay  them  in  your  Pye,  amongfl: 
the  Meat,  at  proper  Diftances.  Then  take 
the  Bottoms  of  three  or  four  Artichokes 
boil'd  tender,  and  cut  in  Dice  5  and  lay  thefe; 
likewife  amongfl:  the  Meat.  Put  in  alfo 
fome  Coxcombs  blanched  i  then  clofe  your 
Pye,  and  pour  in  as  much  Wine  and  Water 
as  you  think  convenient.  Bake  it,  and  ferve 
it  hot. 


ri 


Part  II.       DiRECTORr 


To  make  artificial  Coxcombs.     From  Mrl 

Renaud. 


^  I  "^AKE  Tripe,  without  any  Fat,  and 
J[  with  a  iharp  Knife  pare  away  the 
fldhy  part,  leaving  only  the  brawny  or 
horny  part  about  the  thicknefs  of  a  Cock^s 
Comb.  Then,  with  a  Jagging-Iron,  cut 
Pieces  out  of  it,  in  the  fhape  of  Cocks 
Combs,  and  the  remaining  Parts  between, 
may  be  cut  to  pieces,  and  ufed  in  Pyes,  and 
ferve  every  whit  as  well  as  Cocks  Combs : 
but  thole  cut  in  form,  pleafe  the  Eye  beft$ 
and,  as  Mr,  Renaud  oh fctvcs,  the  Eyemuft 
be  picafedjbcfore  we  can  tafte  any  thing  with 
Pleafure.  And  therefore^  in  IricafTces  we 
fhould  put  thofe  v/hich  are  cut  according 
to  Art. 

Calf's  Liver  fluffed  and  roafled.      From 
the  fame. 

AKE  a  Calf  s  Liver,  the  Morning 
it  is  kiird,  and  make  a  hole  in  it, 
with  a  large  Knife,  to  run  length- ways,  but 
not  quite  through  it  3  then  make  a  farced 
Meat,  or  fluffing  for  it,  of  fome  of  the  Li- 
ver parboiled,  and  fome  Fat  of  Bacon  cut 
verj  fine,  fome  frefh  Lemon-Peel  grated, 
fome  fweet  Herbs  powder'd,  and  fome  but- 
tered Eggs,  as  much  as  may  be  neceffary^^ 
to  mix  v/ith  the  other  Ingredients  5  then 

add 


So         7^^  Cotmtry  Ladys 

add  fomc  grated  Bread,  and  fome  Spices 
finely  beat,  with  fome  Pepper  and  Salt: 
then  fill  that  part  that  you  cut  in  the  Liver 
with  this  farced  Meat  5  and  cut  other  Places 
if  you  will,  and  fill  them  likewife.  You  may 
then  lard  the  Liver,  if  you  will,  with  Bacon 
Fat,  and  roaft  it,  flouring  it  very  well,  and 
bafthig  it  with  Butter,  till  it  is  enough.  But 
it  is  reckoned  rather  better  by  fome,  when 
the  Liver  is  fluffed,  to  brufh  it  over  with  the 
Yolk  of  an  Egg,  and  ftrew  upon  it  rafpings 
of  Bread  fifted,  forrie  Flour,  fome  dry'd 
fweet  Herbs  powdef'd,  and  fome  Spice ; 
and  then  enclofe  the  Whole  with  the  Caul 
of  Veals  fo  roaft  it,  and  it  will  make  an 
excellent  Difh.  To  be  ferved  hot,  either 
with  Venifon  Sauce,  made  of  Claret  boifd 
with  Cinnamon,  arid  fweeten  d  with  Sugar, 
or  with  Gravey  SaucC;,  with  a  little  Wine 
in  it. 

To  roajl  a  Calf's  Liver  ^   another  way. 
From  Mrs.  M.  Ni 

AKE  a  Calf's  Liver,  as  before,  and 
_  fluff  it  as  above,  only  with  this  Al- 
teration in  the  Stuffing.  Shred  fome  Veal- 
Suet  very  fmall,  and  add  to  that  fome 
grated  Bread,  Spice,  and  dry'd  fweet  Herbs 
finely  powder'd,  with  fome  Currans  plump'd, 
and  a  little  Salt's  then  make  this  into  a  , 
Pafte,  with  fome  Eggs  beaten  j  and  whea 

you' 


Part  11.       Director*  8i 

you  have  ftufFed  what  Parts  you  pleafe,  with 
the  Mixtnre,  roaft  it,  bafting  it  well  with 
Butter,  and  ftrewing  on,  now  and  then, 
fome  of  the  above  Mixture,  as  far  as  it 
can  be  in  powder,  or  admit  of  ftrewing. 
Then  ferve  it  hot,  with  melted  Butter  and 
Lemon-Juice,  or  Verjuice,  and  garnifh  with 
Lemon  lliced,  and  pickled  Berberries. 

Cream  Cufiard.     From  Lady  H* 

OIL  a  Quart  of  Cream,  with  fome 
grated  Nutmeg,  and  a  Jittle  Mace 
finely  powder'd  5  then  beat  the  Yolks  of 
twelve  Eggs,  with  half  as  many  Whites, 
with  a  little  Salt :  then  add  a  fpoonfuU  of 
Sack,  and  one  of  Orange-Flower- Water, 
or  Rofe- Water :  then  put  about  fix  Ounces 
of  fine  Loaf-Sugar  beaten  fine,  and  well 
fifted  j  and  rhix  a|l  together,  when  the  Cream 
is  not  too  hot  J  then  pafs  it  through  a  fine 
Sieve,  and  bake  it  in  Ckina  Cups. 

To  imitate  the  fat    Livers   of  Capons 
roafled.     From  the  fame, 

TAKE  a  CalPs  Liver  frelh,  and  cut 
it  in  pieces,  in  the  fliape  of  large 
Capons  Livers.  Dip  every  one  in  Flour, 
and  fpit  them  on  Lark-Spits,  the  fiat  Sides 
againft  each  other,  but  minding  to  put  be- 
tween them  a  (lice  of  fat  Bacon.  Roaft 
them,    and  bafte  them  well  with  Butter, 

G  and 


S2  The  Country  Ladys 

and  di'udging  them  often  with  rafped  Bread 
fifted,  and  flour  with  a  little  Salt.  When 
they  arc  enough^  fetvc  them  with  the  fol- 
lowing Sauce.  Take  two  or  three  Necks 
of  Fowls,  if  you  have  them,  or  elfe,  a 
little  clean  Beef  Gravey,  a  little  Water,  a 
little  Ale,  or  fmali  Beer  5  an  Onion  and 
fome  Pepper  and  Salt:  then  ftrain  off  the 
Sauce,  and  pour  it  into  the  Difh  before 
you*  lay  in  your  Livers,  and  garnifli  with 
Slices  of  Lemon,  diced  Beet-Roots  pickled, 
and  lifted  rafpings  of  Bread.  •  Thefe  do  well 
iikewife  to  be  laid  about  a  roafled  Chicken. 

To  fnake  Pound  Cakes.     From  the  fame, 

AKE  a  Pound  of  double  refined  Loaf- 
Sugar  beaten  and  fifted  5  then  beat 
eight  Eggs  and  ftir  the  Sug^r  in 'them  5  then 
melt  a  Pound  of  Butter,  and  ftir  that  in  with 
the  reft,  and  then  ftir  in  a  Pound  of  Flour, 
fome  Mace  finely  beat,  w^ith  fome  Nutmeg 
grated,  and  fome  Sack,  and  Orange-Flower- 
Water  5  beat  thefe  all  together  for  an  hour 
and  a  half  till  ail  is  well  mix'd;  then  ftir 
in  fome  Currans  plumjp'd  a  little.  To  make 
good  the  name  of  the  Cake,  there  fhould  be  a 
Pound  of  a  fort.  Some  put  about  a  quar- 
ter of  a  Pound  of  Caraway  Comfits  5  but 
every  way  is  good.  Bake  thefe  in  little 
Pans,  in  a  gentle  Oven,  and  when  they  are 

quite 


Part  IL         Director.  8^ 

quite  cold,  turn  them  out,  and  keep  them 
in  oaken  Boxes,  with  Papers  between  them, 
in  a  dry  Place. 

To  make  a  fix  Hour  Tudding,     From  the 

fame, 

^nr^  AKE   a  Pound  of  Beef  Suet,  picked 
J^^     clean  from   the   Skins    and  bloody 
Parts,  and  chop  it  pretty  fmall  j   then  take 
a  Pound  of  Raifins  of  the  Sun,  and  ftonc 
them  5  then  fhred  them,  and  mix  them  to- 
gether:  add  to  them  a  large  fpoonfull  of  Flour, 
and  fix  Eggs  beaten,  a  little  Lisbon  Sugar, 
fom.e  Salt,    and  fome  Cloves,    and  Mace, 
beaten.     Then  mix  thefe  well  together,  and 
make  two  Puddings  of  them^    tied  up  in 
Cloths  well  fiour'd  i    boil  them  iix  Hours, 
and  ferve  them  with  Sugar  and  Butter  in 
Cups.     This  will  cut  very  firm,    and  not 
tafte  at  all  greafy.      And  if  you  fave  one 
cold,,    cut  it  in    Slices,  and  lay  it  upon  a 
Grid-Iron,    under  Beef  while  it  is  roafting, 
and  it  eats  very  well  with  Beef  Gravey  hot* 

To  make  a  Venifon  Tafly.    From  the  fame 

TAKE  fix  Pounds  of  Cambridge  pot- 
ted Butter,  and  rub  it  into  a  peck  of 
Elour,  but  do  not  rub  in  your  Butter  too 
fmall  ;  and  then  make  it  into  a  Pafte,  with 
Water:  then  butter  your  Pan  w^ell,  and 
when  your  Pafte  is  roli'd  out  thick,  lay  it  in 

G  2  the 


84  Tloe  Country  Ladys 

the  Pan,  preferving  only  enough  for  the  Lid. 
The  Cajnbridge  Butter  is  mentioned,  becaufe 
it  is  a  little  Salt ;  or  elfe,  if  you  ufe  frefh 
Butter,  there  fhould  be  fome  Salt  put  into 
the  Cruft.     When  that  is  prepared,  take  a 
iide  of  Venifon,  and  take  off  the  Skin,  as 
clofe  as  can  be,  and  take  the  Bones  out  quite 
free  from  the  Flefh  i  then  cut  this  through 
length-ways,  and  cut  it  crofs  again,  to  make 
four  Pieces  of  it  >  then  ftrew  thefe  Pieces 
with  Pepper  and  Salt,  well  mix'd,  at  difcre- 
tion :    and  after  having  laid  a  little  of  the 
Pepper  and  Salt  at  the  bottom  of  the  Pafty, 
with  fome  pieces  of  Butter  5  then  lay  in  your 
pieces  of  Venifon,  fo  that  at  each  Corner 
the  Fat  may  be  placed  $  then  lay  fome  But- 
ter over  it,  in  pieces,  and  clofe  your  Pafty. 
When  it  is  ready  for  the  Oven,  pour  in  a- 
bout  a  Opart  of  Water,  and  let  it  bake  from 
five  a  Clock  in  the  Morning  till  one  in  the 
Afternoon,  in  a  hot  Oven.     And  at  the 
fame  time  put  the  Skin  and  the  Bones  bro- 
ken, with  Water  enough  to  cover  them,  and 
fome  Pepper  and  Salt  into  a  glaz'd  earthen 
Pan,  into  the  fame  Oven  5    and  when  you 
draw  the  Pafty,    pour  off  as  much  as  you 
think  proper,  of  the  clear  Liquor,  into  your 
Pafty.     Serve  it  hot,  but  it  is  properly  a 
fide*board  Difh,  and  the  Carver  ought  al- 
ways to  take  the  Services,  of  the  Pafty,  from 

the 


Part  IL         Director.  85 

the  Corners  where  the  Fat  is,  to  do  honour 
to  the  Mafter  and  his  Park. 

To  roaji  a  Hog  s  Harjlet.  From  the  fame. 

TAKE  a  Hogs  Hardet,  as  foon  as  the 
Hog  is  kiird,  lay  afide  the  Lights,  and 
cut  the  Liver  in  tiiick  Slices,  and  the  Heart 
in  thinner  Pieces  5  then  take  fome  of  the 
Crow  of  an  Hog,  and  cut  that  in  Pieces  equal 
with  the  reft.  Then  take  the  Sweetbreads, 
with  fome  of  the  Sticking-Pieces,  as  they 
are  called,  and  fome  Slices  of  fat  Bacon. 
Dip  thefe  into  Eggs  beaten,  and  then  dip 
them  again  into  grated  Bread,  fome  red  Sage 
chopt  fmall,  and  fome  Pepper  and  Salt,  with 
a  little  fweet  Marjoram,  or  fweet  Bafil 
powder'ds  then  put  the  Pieces,  broad- fide 
one  to  another,  upon  a  fmall  Spit,  always 
.obfervingto  put  the  Bacon  next  the  Heart, 
and  the  Crow  next  the  Liver  ^  then  wrap 
them  up  in  a  Cawl  of  Veal,  and  roafl:  it. 
Put  thefe  Pieces  as  clofe  as  you  can  together, 
and  when  it  is  done,  ferve  it  with  fome 
melted  Butter  and  Muftard,  with  a  little 
Lemon-Juice. 

To   make   Cream   of  Rafpbcrries.      From 
Mrs.  Heron. 

TAKE  thick  Cream,  a  Quart,  and!  put 
to  that,  either  fome  Rafpberry  Syrup> 
or  fome  Jamm  of  Rafpberricsj  but  the 
Syrup  will  mix  much  eafier  with  it :   how- 

G  3  ever. 


86         2^^  Country  Ladys 

ever,  the  Jamm  of  Rafpberries  is  accounted 
the  beft  by  fonie,  becaufe  that  has  the  Seeds 
in  it.  But  1  think,  that  Symp  of  Rafpber- 
ries is  better,  becaufe  all  is  fmooth,  and  the 
Cream  taftes  fufficiently  of  the  Rafpberries. 
One  muft  ferve  this  with  the  Defert.  But 
if  you  ufe  the  Jamm  of  Rafpberries,  you 
muft  beat  it  with  fome  of  the  Cream  a  good 
while  before  it  will  mix  5  and  then  put  it 
to  the  other  Cream,  and  ftir  it  a  little,  and 
it  will  mix. 

Artificial  Cr earn y  to  be  mix  d with  any  Tre- 
ferves  of  Fruit,     From  Mrs,  M.  S.  of 

Salisbury. 

AKE  a  Quart  of  Milk,  and  when  it 

is  boil'd,   put  in  the  Yolks  of  eight 

Eesis  well  beaten  with  the  Whites  of  fix. 

CO 

Put  not  in  the.  Eggs  while  the  Milk  is  too 
hot,  left  they  curdle.  Then,  when  they 
are  well  mix'd,  fet  them  over  a  gentle  Fire, 
and  ftir  them  all  the  whiles  and  w^hen  you 
perceive  them  to  be  thick  enough,  put  into 
them  what  quantity  you  pleafe  of  Syrup,  or 
Jamms  of  Apricots,  Peaches,  or  Plums,  or 
Cherries,  or  Oranges,  Lemons,  or  other 
Fruits,  ftirring  them  well  till  they  partake 
enough  of  the  prefcrv'd  Fruit's  tafte,  and 
then  ferve  them  up,  in  China  Bafons,  cold, 
in  a  Defert,  without  any  Ornament  of 
flov/crs. 


Part  11.       Director.  87 

To  make  Sweet-meat  Cream.      From  the 

fame, 

"  i  ^AKE  either  clean  Gream  from  the 
\  Dairy,  or  elfe  make  the  foregoing 
artilicial  Cream,  and  flice  preferv'd  Apricots, 
or  preferv'd  Peaches  or  Plums,  into  it,  hav^ 
ing  firft  fweetend  the  Cream  well,  with 
fine  Loaf-Sugar,  or  with  the  fame  Syrup 
they  were  preferv'd  in.  Mix  thefe  well, 
and  ferve  them  feparately,  cold,  in  China 
Bafons. 

To   embalm  Pids;eons.     From  a    Lady  in 
^SurTolk. 

THIS  Receipt  was  com.mmiicated  in 
this  manner :  viz.  Sir,  I  have  {^zzw 
the  Method  you  propofe  to  embalm  Par- 
tridges, in  your  Farmer  s  Monthly  T)ireBory 
and  have  tried  it  fo  far,  that  I  have  kept 
them,  done  that  way,  a  Month.  1  had 
then  a  mind  to  try  what  I  could  do  with 
Pidgeonsj  and  as  foon  as  they  were  kill'd, 
I  was  dilisent  to  take  owt  all  the  Blood,  and 
wafh  them,  and  dry  them,  as  is  direcled, 
with  warm  Cloths,  both  infide  and  outfide. 
I  then  laid  them  in  Pans  of  earthen  Ware, 
and  cover'd  them  with  melted  Butter,  Vv^hich 
kept  them  very  well,  for  a  long  time.  I 
wafh'd  the  Necks  of  the  Pidgcons,  when 
the  Crops  were  taken  out,   with   Vinegar,^ 

G  4  and 


88  "The  Country  Ladys 

and  dry'd  them.     Then  I  ufed  them  as  you 
direft  for  Partridges,   and  they  kept  fweet 
a  Month,  fit  forRoafting;  and  they  eat  the 
fame  as  if  they  were  frefh  kill'd.    Tliis  I  fend 
you  word  of,  becaufe  you  may  know  how 
far  your  embalming  of  Partridges  has  taken 
Effed,  and  to  tell  you,  the  Lady  who  told 
you  of  it ,  underflood  very  well  what  fhe 
did.      As  for   my  part,    I  ufed  frefh  But- 
ter; but  you  did  not  fay  whether  it  fhould      ^ 
be  fait  or  frefh,    and  I  try'd  Pidgeons,  be-      '^ 
caufe  they  are  Fowls    w^iich  decay  fooner 
than  any.     If  you  think  this  worth  your 
Notice^ 

I  anty 

Tour  humble  Servant. 

S,  F. 

yi?  preferve  Pidgeons  another  is: ay.     From 

the  fame. 

TAKE  Pidgeons  frefli  kiird^  wafh  them 
from  the  Blood,  and  take  off  the  Flefh, 
as  dean  as  you  can  from  the  Bones,  anddif- 
chargeallthelnfide:  then  fcafonthem  well 
with  Pepper  and  Salt,  with  a  little  Mace  and 
Nutmeggrated,  and  boil  them  in  equal  quan- 
tities of  Vinegar  and  Water,  till  they  are 
very  tender  with  Cloves,  or  other  Spice, 
as  you  like  5    and  if  you  add  a  Bay-leaf  or 


Part  II.        DiRECiPOR.  8g 

two  it  will  be  better.  When  your  Pidgeons 
are  boil'd  tender  enough,  take  them  from 
the  Fire,  and  when  the  Liquor  is  cold,  lay 
your  Pidgeons  in  a  large  Gally-pot,  and 
pour  the  Liquor  upon  them,  and  cover  them 
up  clofe  with  Leather,  and  they  will  keep 
a  long  time. 

An  Attempt  to  preferve  Cucumbers,   for 
Stewingy  in  the  Winter,  From  the  fame. 

Sir,  ^. 

YO  U  have  often  told  me,  that  you  was 
a  Lover  of  Cucumbers,  and  more  efpe- 
cially  ftew'd,  than  any  other  way  5  which  I 
j5nd  many  others  of  my  Friends  come  into. 
I  propofe,  that  you  fliould  pare  and  flice  Cu- 
cumbers as  ufual  for  ftewing;  and  then  with 
a  little  Salt  and  Pepper,    with  their  own 
Liquor  ftew  them  in  a  Sauce-Pan  till  they 
are  a  little  tender  5   then  pour  them    into 
a  Cullendar,  and  when  they  are  drained  well 
from  the  Liquor,  boil  fome  White  Wine, 
with  Water,    half  one,  and  half  the  other, 
with  whole  Pepper  i  and  when  the  Liquor 
is  cold,   put  the  Cucumbers  into  a  Gally- 
pot,  and  pour  the  Liquor  over  them  :   and, 
if  you  put  a  little  Oil  upon  the  Liquor,  I 
am  perfuaded  they  will  keep  feveral  Months. 
I  wifli  it  may  be  try'd,   for  1  have  thought 
pf  it  5   and  according  tp  my  judgment  it 

may 


go  T^e  Country  Ladys 

may  be  fit  to  ufe,  any  time  in  the  Winter, 
for  ftewing. 

When  you  ufe  thefe,  pour  away  all  the 
Liquor,  and  let  them  pals  through  a  Sauce- 
pan with  a  little  Salt  and  Water,  till  they  are 
tender,  as  you  would  have  them  5  then  drain 
them  again  in  a  Cullendar,  and  fry  them 
brown,  with  burnt  Butter,  firft  flouring  them, 
and  a  little  Pepper  5  and  when  they  are  e- 
nough,  put  in  a  Glafs  of  Claret,  or  a  Glafs 
of  White  Wine. 

1  awy 

Tour  humble  Servant, 

S.  R 

Pippin  Tart.    From  the  fame, 

UT  fome  golden  Pippins  in  halves, 
^J,  P^^'^  them,  and  take  out  the  Cores  ^ 
then  flew  them  with  half  their  weight  of 
Sugar,  and  fome  Lemon-Peel,  cut  in  thin 
long  Slices,  and  Water  enough  to  cover 
them.  When  they  are  clear,  they  are  enough ; 
then  fet  them  by  to  cool,  and  ftrain  off  .the 
Liquor,  or  Syrup,  and  put  that  in  a  Pan  to 
ftew  gently,  with  fome  candy 'd  Lemon  and 
Orange- Peel,  in  ilices  5  then  have  a  fweet 
Parte  "prepared  in  a  Difh,  and  lay  in  your 
Pippins,  and  pour  the  Syrup,  and  Sweet- 
meats, over  them,  and  bake  them  in  a  gentle 

Oven  ^ 


Part  II.        Director.  gr 

Oven  5  and  when  it  is  hot,  pour  fome  Cream 
either  pure  or  artificial  over  them,  and  ferve 
them  to  the  Table. 

To  Tickle  Marygold-Flowers.     From 
Mr.  T.  of  Buckingham. 

'Tn'HOyGH  the  Mary  gold  Flower  is 
^1^     of  old  date  in  Pottage  i  yet  it  con- 
tinues ftill  its  ftand  among  the  uleful  things 
of  the  Kitchen,  and  cannot  more  eafily  be 
worn  out,  according  to  the  cuftom  of  the 
Country,  when  the  Country  Folks  make 
Broth.     Mint  with  Peafe,  Fennel  with  Mac- 
karel,  and  fuch  like,  cannot  be  forgot.   And 
as  the  Mary  gold-Flowers  are  ufed  in  Porridge, 
1  fend  the  Receipt  how  to  pickle  them.  Strip 
the  Flower-leaves  oft,  when  you  have  gathered 
the  Flowers,  at  Noon,  or  in  the  Heat  of  the 
Day,  and  boil  fome  Salt  and -Water  5    and 
when  that  is  cold,  put  your  Marygold-Flower 
Leaves  in  a  Gallypot,  and  pour  the  Salt  and 
Water  upon  them  5  then  (hut  them  up  clofe 
till  you  ufethem,  and  they  will  be  of  a  fine 
Colour,  and  much  fitter  for  Porridge  than 
thofc  that  are  dry'd. 

Seed-Cake.     From  the  fame, 

"AKE  feme  Paftc  of  fine  Flour,  fuch 
_  __  as  you  would  make  for  light  Bread, 
with  Yeaft.  Take  five  Pounds  of  this  Dough, 
without  Salt  in  it,    and  cover  it  before  a 

Fire 


92         I'he  Country  Ladys 

Tire  for  half  an  Hour,  to  make  it  rife  5  then 
take  two  Pounds  and  a  half  of  frefh  Butter 
melted,  and  five  Eggs  beaten  well  with  half 
a  Pound  of  fine  Lisbon  Sugar.  Mix  thefe 
well  with  your  Pafte,  and  work  it  till  it  is 
as  light  aspoffiblei  and  when  your  Oven  is 
very  hot  and  clean,  ftrew  into  your  Cake 
a  Pound  of  fmooth  Caraway  Comfits  j  then 
put  fome  Butter  on  the  Sides  and  Bottom 
of  your  Pan,  and  put  in  your  Cake,  and 
one  Hour  and  a  quarter  will  bake  it.  When 
it  comes  out  of  the  Oven,  cover  it  with 
Cloths  of  Linnen  till  it  is  cold  5  then  put 
it,  the  next  Day,  a  little  while  into  an  Oven, 
JV.5.  You  muft  be  fure  to  put  in  the  Su- 
gar after  the  Butter.  One  may  put  on  ai^ 
Iceing  if  one  will. 

To  make  Oi^x\%z-Chtps .     From  the  fame, 

TAKE  fome  frefh  Oranges  about  Fe^ 
bniary^  and  pare  them  very  thin; 
they  are  then  very  cheap.  Boil  them  in  fe- 
vcral  Waters  till  they  are  tender,  and  have 
loft  their  Bitternefs,  then  put  them  into 
cold  Water  for  twelve  Hours  .or  more.  Then 
make  a  Syrup  for  them  in  the  follov/ing 
manner.  Take  about  their  weight  of  fine 
Sugar  powdered,  and  mix  it  with  as  much 
Water  as  it  will  take  in,  or  a  little  more. 
Boil  this,  and  fcum  it  well  5  then  drain  the 
Oiange-Pcels  from  the   Water  they  were 

ftccp'd 


Part  II.      Director*  93 

fteep'd  in,  and  put  them  in  a  glaz'd  earthen 
Veffel,  and  then  pour  the  boiling  hot 
Syrup  upon  them>  letting  them  remaia 
fo  till  the  Day  following ;  then  pour  the 
Syrup  from  them,  and  boil  it  afrefh,  and 
pour  it  on  a  fecond  time,  aad  repeat  the 
fame  work  till  your  Peels  are  very  clear, 
and  the  Syrup  very  thick;  and  then  dry  them 
in  a  Stove,  and  they  will  be  fit  for  ufe,  in 
the  Condition  we  buy  them.  One  may 
candy  Lemon- Chips  after  the  fame  manner. 

To  make  Hartshorn-Jelly.  From  the  fame, 

TAKE  fix  Ounces  of  Harts-horn  Sha- 
vings ;  put  them  into  two  Quarts  of 
Water,  and  two  or  three  bits  of  Lemon-PeeJ, 
and  fet  this  in  a  Sand-heat,  for  fix  or  eight 
Hours,  or  let  them  infufe  about  ten  Hours 
upon  hot  Embers.  Then  boil  it  briskly,  and 
when  you  find  it  will  jelly,  as  you  may  do, 
by  taking  out  a  little  of  the  Liquor  in  a 
Spoon,  and  cooling  its  then  fl:rainit  off, 
and  add  to  it  about  half  a  Pound  of  double- 
refined  Sugar  powder'd  very  fine ;  about  a 
Gill  of  Sack,  or  two  or  three  fpoonfuls  of 
Mountain  Wine,  the  Juice  oftwo  Lemons  5 
then  fet  this  on  a  flow  Fire,  and  as  it  heats, 
beat  the  Whites  of  two  Eggs  to  a  froth, 
and  put  it  into  the  Pan,  where  the  Jelly  is, 
at  times  as  it  rifesj  and  then,  when  it  juft 
boils  up,  take  it  from  the  Fire,  and  it  will 

be 


94  7^^  Country  Ladys 

be  clarified.      Then  pour  it  by  fmall  quan- 
tities into  the  Jelly-bag,  and  let  it  drop  or 
run  into  fome  Receiver ,  but  it  will  be  apt 
to  run  thick  at  iirft :  then  take  that  which 
is  firft  run,  if  it  be  thick,  and  pour  again  in- 
to the  Jelly- bag,  and  you  will  tind  it  come 
clear.  Then  place  your  Glafles  to  receive  it, 
and  change  the  full  one  for  another,  which 
you  muft  carefully  watch,  that  your  Glafles 
be  not  foil'd  in  the  leaft,  for  the  Beauty  of 
this,  in  one  particular,  is  its  tranfparcncy ; 
and  again,  it  fhould  not  be  too  ftiff.    Some 
only  take  the  Harts-horn  Shavings,  fix  Ounces 
to  two  Quarts  of  Water,  and  boil  it  gently 
till  the  Liquor  will  jelly,    without  the  ex- 
pence  of  a  Sand-heat,  or  fetting  it  on  hot 
Embers,     The  boiling  it  is  the  befl:  way, 
but  requires  more  Patience. 

Ti?  make  a  Tart  of  the  Ananas,  or  Pinc- 
Apple.     From  Barbadoes. 

AKE  a  Pine- Apple,  andtv/ift  off  its 
Crown :  then  pare  it  free  from  the 
Knots,  and  cut  it  in  Slices  about  half  an  Inch 
thick  5  then  ftew  it  with  a  little  Canary  Wine, 
or  Madera  Wine,  and  fome  Sugar,  till  it  is 
thoroughly  hot,  and  it  will  diftribute  its  Fla- 
vour to  the  Wine  much  better  than  any 
thing  we  can  add  to  it.  When  it  is  as  one 
would  have  it,  take  it  from  the  Fire,  and 
when  it  is  cool,  put  it  into  a  fvvcet  Pafte, 
I  with 


Part  11.        D I R  E  c  T  o  r.  95 

with  its  Liquor,  and  bake  it  gently,  a  little 
while,  and  when  it  comes  from  the  Oven, 
pour  Cream  over  it,  (if  you  have  it)  and 
ferve  it  either  hot  or  cold. 

Marmalade  ^/^  Pine-Apples,  or  Ananas. 

HEN  you  have  fmall  Pine- Apples 
in  Fruit,  which  are  not  noble  e- 
nou2;h  to  be  brought  to  the  Table,  twift  off 
their  Crowns,  and  pare  them  5  then  flice  them, 
and  put  them  into  a  Syrup  of  Water,  Sugar, 
and  Pippins  5  and  boil  them  with  half  their 
quantity  of  Sugar  added  to  them,  with  a  little 
White  Wine,  breaking  them  with  a  Spoon, 
as  they  boil,  till  they  come  to  a  Mafh,  or  are 
a  little  tender.  Then  take  them  from  the 
Fire,  and  put  the  Marmalade  into  Glaffes  to 
keep,  and  cover  every  Glafs  with  white  Pa- 
per,  preferving  them  in  a  dry  Place. 

To  drefs  the  Giblets  of  a  Tortoife,  ^r  Sea- 
Turtle.     From  a  Barbadoes  Lady. 

TAKE  the  Head,  the  Feet,  and  the 
Tail,  of  either  of  thefe,  and  taking 
off  their  Scales,  ftew  them  three  or  four 
Hours,  in  Salt  and  Water,  till  they  are  ai- 
moft  tender  5  then  broil  them  a  little  with 
Pepper  and  Salt  on  them,  and  then  put 
them  into  a  Stew-pan  with  a  Shallot,  and 
fome  Spice  and  fweet  Herbs,  according  to 
your  Taftc  $  fome  ftrong  Gravey,  and  fome 

Water 


96  ^e  Country  Ladys 

Wine,  and  thicken  the  Sauce,  taking  out 
the  bunch  of  fweet  Herbs.  You  may  put 
then  fome  Juice  of  Limes  to  them,  or  Cha- 
docks  or  Lemons,  to  make  them  fine. 
N.B.  This  is  a  dainty  Difli,  if  they  are 
broird,  after  the  firft  ftewing,  becaufe  as 
they  are  finewey,  the  Sinews  ought  to  be 
a  little  fcorched  by  broiling,  or  elfe  they 
will  not  be  fo  tender  as  one  would  have 
them. 

There  are  two  Sorts  of  Tortoifes,  the 
Land,  and  the  Sea-Tortoife  5  but  the  Sca- 
Tortoile  or  Turtle,  is  what  I  mean,  which 
is  that  which  we  have  about  the  Weft-Indies, 
This  is  a  fine  Animal,  partaking  of  the  Land 
and  Water.  Its  Flefh  between  that  of  Veal, 
and  that  of  a  Lobfter,  and  is  extremely  plea- 
fant,  either  roafied  or  baked.  There  are 
fome  of  thefe  Creatures  that  weigh  near 
two  hundred  Weight.  They  are  frequent- 
ly brought  to  England  in  Tubs  of  Sea  Wa- 
ter, and  will  keep  alive  a  long  time. 

To  roaft  a  Tiece  of  Turtle,-  or  Tortoife, 
From  the  fame. 

TAKE  a  piece  of  the  Flefh  of  about 
five  or  fix  Pounds,  and  lay  it  in  Salt 
and  Water  two  Hours  5  then  ftick  a  few 
Cloves  in  it,  and  faften  it  to  the  Spit,  bafte 
it  at  firfl:  with  Wine  and  Lemon-Juice  5  and 
when  it  is  near  enough,  drudge  lome  Flour 

over 


Part  II.       D I R  E  c  T  dR6  97 

over  It,  with  the  rafpings  of  Bread  fifted  5 
and  then  bafte  it  well,  either  with  Oil,  or  But- 
ter, ftrewihg  on,  from  time  to  time,  more 
Flour  and  Rafpings  till  it  is  enough  5  then 
take  the  Liquor  in  the  Pan,  and  pouring  off 
the  Fat,  boil  it  with  fome  Lemon-Peel, 
and  a  little  Sugar  and  Salt,  and  pour  it 
over  the  Turtle.     So  ferve  it  hot. 

To  make  a  Turtle,  or  Tortoife-5^^.    From 
the  fame, 

CUT  the  Flefh  of  Turtle,  otTortoifej 
into  Slices,  about  an  Inch  thick  5  then 
take  Cloves  beaten  fine,  with  fome  Pepper 
and  Salt,  and  a  little  fvveet  Herbs,  and  feafon 
your  Pieces  with  them ;  then  lay  them  in 
your  Cruft,  with  fome  Lemons  fliced,  and 
a  quarter  of  a  Pint  of  Oil- Olive  pour'd 
over  them,  or  el fe  fome  Butter  laid  in  bits 
upon  them.  In  the  cutting  your  Pieces,  di- 
ftribute  your  Fat  and  Lean,  equally  as  may 
be  ;  and  though  the  Fat  is  of  a  greenifh 
colour,  it  is  yet  very  delicious :  then  clofe 
your  Pye,  and  juft  before  you  put  it  in  the 
Oven,  pour  in  fome  White  Wine,  and  bake 
it  in  a  gentle  Oven  till  it  is  tender.  Then 
ferve  it  hot. 

1^0  pre  ferve  Ginger-Roots.  From  the  fame ^ 

AKE  Roots  of  Ginger,   as  we  have 

them  dry  in  England  h  wafh  them 

H  ~    well^ 


98         Hoe  Country  Ladys 

well,  and  lay  one  Pound  of  them  to  ftecp, 
ten  or  twelve  Days,  in  White  Wine  and 
Water,  ftirring  them  evety  Day.  Thea 
take  two  Quarts  of  White  Wine,  and  about 
naif  a  Pint  of  Lemon- Juice,  and  boil  them 
together  a  quarter  of  an  Hour  5  then  add 
two  Pounds  and  a  half  of  fine  Sugar,  and 
boll  it  to  a  Syrup,  taking  off  the  Scum  as 
it  rifes  ;  then  put  in  your  Ginger,  and  boil 
it  a  quarter  of  an  Hour  5  then  let  it  cool  in 
a  glazed  Pan  till  the  next  Day,  and  then 
boil  it  again  in  the  Syrup  for  half  an  Hour, 
and  let  it  cool,  as  before,  till  the  Day  fol- 
lowing, and  repeat  the  boiling  and  cooling 
till  your  Ginger  is  clear,  and  put  it  into 
your  Glafles,  and  cover  them  with  Papers. 
It  makes  a  fine  Sweet-meat  for  the  Winter. 

To  preferve  Ginger-Roots,  fre^  taken  out 
of  the  Ground.    From  the  fame. 

AS  Ginger  is  very  common  in  the 
Weft'IndieSy  fo  the  Roots  are  either 
pteferved  or  pickled,  when  they  are  frefh 
taken  out  of  the  Ground,  and  we  have 
now  Ginger,  growing  in  Pots,  almoft  in  e- 
very  Garden  where  there  is  a  Stove  5  and 
in  a  Year's  time  a  fingle  Root  will  almoft 
fill  a  Pot ;  fo  that  one  might  eafily  have 
enough  of  our  own,  to  preferve  every  Year. 
We  tnuft  takethemup,  when  they  have  no 
Leaves  upon  thems  ^nd  then  fcaldthem  ia 

JVatcrjj 


Part  tl.         Director*  i 

Water,  and  rub  them  with  a  coarfc  Cloth 
till  they  are  dry  i  then  put  them  into  White 
Wine  and  Water,  and  boil  them  half  aa 
Hour  5  then  let  them  cool,  and  boil  theni 
again  half  an  Hour.  Then  make  a  Syrup 
with  White  Wine  two  Qiiarts,  half  a  Pint: 
of  Lime  or  Lemon-Juice,  and  two  Pounds 
and  a  half  of  fine  Sugar,  with  two  Ounces 
of  the  Leaves  of  Orange-Flowers.  When 
thefe  boil  together,  put  in  your  Ginger,  and 
boil  it  gently  half  an  Hour ,  then  let  it  cool 
in  an  earthen  glaz'd  Veffel,  and  continue 
to  boil  it  every  Day,  and  cooling  it  till  the 
Roots  of  your  Ginger  are  clear.  Then  put 
it  up  in  Gallypots,  or  in  Glaffes,  and  cover 
them  with  Papers,  to  keep  for  ufe. 

To  make  Tajie  of  Pippins,  or  Gther  fine 
Apples,     From  the  fame, 

TAKE  large  Golden-Pippins,  or  Gol-' 
den-Rennets,  and  fcald  them,  with 
their  Skins  oh  $  theii  pare  them,  and  take 
out  the  Cores,  and  beat  them  in  a  Marble 
Mortar  very  well,  with  a  little  Lemon-Peel 
grated.  Take  then  their  weight  of  fine  Su- 
gar, and  a  little  Water,  and  boil  that  in  a 
Skillet  to  a  candy  height ;  then  put  in  your 
!Apples,  and  boil  them  thick  in  the  Syrup 
till  they  will  leave  the  Skillet,  and  when  \t 
i?  almoft  cold,  work  it  up  with  fiae  Loaf-Su- 

H  2  gar 


lOO       7^^  Country  Ladys 

gar  powder'd,   and  mould  it  into   Cakes, 
then  dry  them. 

To  preferve    Cornelian-Cherries.      From 

the  fame. 

TAKE  Cornelian- Cherries,  when  they 
are  full  ripe,  and  take  their  weight  in 
fine  Sugar  powder  d  5  then  put  thefe  into^ 
your  preferving  Pan,  and  lay  a  Layer  of 
Sugar,  and  another  of  Fruit  5  and  fo  on  till 
you  have  laid  all  in,  covering  them  with  Su- 
gar ;  then  pour  upon  them  half  a  Pint  of 
White  Wine,  and  fet  it  on  the  Pire,  and  as 
foon  as  the  Sugar  is  all  melted,  boil  them 
up  quick,  and  take  off  the  Scum  as  it  rifes, 
ftirring  them  every  now  and  then :  and 
when  the  Fruit  is  clear,  they  are  enough. 
Then  put  them  into  Glaffes,  and  cover  them 
with  Papers. 

To  make  Marmalade  of  Cornelian- Cherries. 
From  the  fame. 

WHEN  your  Cornelian-Cherries  are 
full  ripe,  take  out  the  Stones,  and 
to  every  Pound  of  Fruit,  take  its  weight  of 
fine  Sugar  powder'd.  Wet  it  with  White 
Wine,  and  boil  it  to  a  candy'd  height  5  then 
put  in  your  Fruit,  with  the  Juice  that  comes 
from  them;  then  boil  them  very  quick,  and 
ftir  it  often,  fcumming  it  clean  i  and  when 
you  fee  it  very  clear,  and  of  a  good  Con- 
fidence^ 


Part  II.         Director.  iqi 

fiftence,  put  it  into  a  glaz'd  earthen  Pan  3 
and  when  it  is  ahuoft  cold,  put  it  into 
Glaffes,  and  cover  them  with  white  Paper, 
and  keep  it  in  a  dry  Room.  Note^  if  you 
let  any  of  thefe  fliarp  Fruits  ftand  to  cool 
in  your  Sweet-meat-Pans,  they  will  take  aa 
ill  tafte  from  them. 

To  make  Jamm  of  Damfons.     From  the 

fame. 

TAKE  Damfons,  full  ripe,  a  Gallons 
pick  them  from  the  Stalks,  that  may 
happen  to  be  about  them,  and  the  Leaves 
that  are  fometimes  gather 'd  with  them :  then 
take  near  their  weight  of  Sugar,  and  about 
a  Quart  of  Water,  and  boil  them  well  to- 
getherj  and  put  in  your  Damfons,  and  boil 
them  till  they  are  tender,  breaking  them 
with  a  Spoon^  all  the  while,  till  the  whole 
is  thickend.  Then  put  it  in  Gallypots, 
and  fet  it  to  cool  $  then  clofe  the  Pots  down 
with  Leather. 

To  preferve  Currans  in  Jelly.     From  the 

fame. 

TAKE  fomc  of  the  large  TDutch  red 
or  white  Currans,  when  they  are  ripe, 
and  pick  them  from  the  Stalks  5  then,  with 
a  Pin,  pick  out  the  Stones  5  or,  you  may, 
if  you  will,  leave  them  on  the  Stalks,  if 
they  are  large  Bunches,  but  ftill  pick  out 

H  3  the 


102       ^e  Cou7tt7y  Ladys 

the  Kernels.  Then  take  their  weight  in  S\x* 
gar,  and  wet  it  with  a  little  Water,  and 
add  a  little  Syrup  of  Rafpberries  to  it  5  then 
boil  it  to  a  Syrup,  fcumming  it  as  it  rifes: 
then  put  in  your  Currans,  and  boil  them 
up  quick,  fhaking  them  often,  ftill  taking 
off  the  Scum  as  it  rifes.  They  will  be  enough 
done  to  put  up,  when  the  Syrup  will  jelly, 
as  you  may  try  by  putting  fomc  in  a  Spoon, 
and  letting  it  cool.  When  you  find  this, 
pour  out  all  into  Glaffes,  when  it  has  cool'd 
a  little.  If  your  Currans  are  pickM  from 
the  Stalks,  or  if  they  are  in  Bunches,  then 
let  the  Syrup  be  half  cold,  and  pour  it  into 
the  Glafles ,  and  then  put  in  your  Bunches, 
placing  them  as  you  would  have  them  fi-? 
tuated,  and  as  it  cools,  they  will  fix  in  their 
feveral  Stations  j  cover  thcGlaffes  tlien  with 
white  Paper. 

Not 6'^  The  red  Currans  ought  to  be  done 
by  themfelves,  and  the  white  by  themfelves, 
for  both  together  will  make  4  difagreeablc 
Mixture, 

To  dry  Apricots.     Fr^?/*;^  ilf r/,  Walfingham 
of  Suffolk, 

CHUSE  for  this  ufe,  the  large  Tur- 
key or  Roman-Apricot,  almoftripcj 
Stone  thetn,  and  pare  them;  then  throw 
them  into  cold  Water,  with  the  Parings  5 
weigh  the  pared  Apricots,  and  prepare  aa 
equjal  weight  of  fine  Sugar  powder'd  5  then 


Part  11.       Director.  103 

put  fome  of  the  Water  the  Apricots  were 
rteep'd  in,  to  the  Sugar^  and  boil  them  to 
a  candy'd  height :  you  may  then  put  in  your 
Apricots,  and  boil  them  till  they  are  clear, 
and  when  they  have  lain  a  few  Days,  in 
the  Syrup,  lay  them  upon  a  fine  Wyre-Sieve, 
and  dry  them  in  a  warm  Place,  Then,  when 
they  are  done,  put  them  in  oaken  BoxcS;, 
with  Papers  between  them. 

To  fiew  a  Rump  of  Beef,     From  Mrs.  L~ 

TAKE  a  fmall  Rump  of  Beef,  lay  it 
in  a  long  Pan,  deep  enough  to  allow 
your  Beef  to  be  covered  $  then  put  to  it  a 
Pint  of  Ale,  a  Quart  of  Claret,  half  a  Pint 
of  Verjuice,  or  the  Juice  of  two  large  Le- 
mons ;  and  as  much  Water  added,  as  will 
make  Liquor  enough  to  cover  it,  a  Cruft 
of  Bread  burnt,  an  Anchovy,  fome  bits 
of  Lemon-Peel,  a  bvmch  of  fweet  Herbs, 
two  large  Hertfordjhire  Turnips  cut  in  dice, 
two  large  Onions  cut  in  halves,  fome  Pepper 
and  Salt,  a  Nutmeg  diced,  a  few  Cloves, 
and  a  little  Mace.  Stop  this  clofe,  and  let 
it  ftew,  at  Icaft,  five  Hours  $  then  lay  your 
Beef  in  the  Difli,  and  pafs  the  Liquor  through 
a  Sieve,  and  fill  the  Difh  with  iti  garnifh- 
ing  with  Turnips,  cut  in  Dice,  boil'd  ten- 
der, and  then  fry'd  in  Hog's-Lard,  and  diced 
Lemon,  or  you  may  bake  your  Rump  of 
Seef,  if  you  will,  for  it  is  much  the  fame. 

H  4  And 


iC4       75^^  Country  Ladys 

And  this  way  you  may  likewife  bake  or 
ftew  a  Leg  of  Beef,  or  an  Ox- Cheek,  only 
break  the  Bones  of  the  Leg  of  Beef,  and 
take  out  all  the  Bones  of  the  Ox-Cheek, 
and  take  efpecially  Care  to  clean  it,  for,  it 
requires  fome  nicety  to  do  it  well. 

Pepper-Mint  Water.    From  the  fame. 

TAKE  Pepper-Mint  fix  handfuls,  cut 
it  a  little,  and  infufe  it  two  Days 
in  fix  Quarts  of  clean  Spirit  5  then  draw  it 
off  in  a  cold  Still,  marking  every  Bottle,  as 
it  fills,  with  a  Number,  for  the  firfl:  Bottle 
will  be  far  the  ftrongefl:,  the  fecond  lefs 
ftrong,  and  the  third  weaker  than  the 
fecond  5  and  fo  as  we  draw  off  more,  tney 
will  be  ftill  weaker,  till  at  laft  it  becomes 
almoft  infipid,  and  fomewhat  fourifh,  but 
take  none  of  that  5  then  cover  the  Mouth 
of  your  Bottles  with  Papers  prick'd  full  of 
Holes,  and  let  them  fl:and  a  Day  or  twoj 
then  pour  your  firfl:  Bottle  into  a  large  earthen 
glaz'd  Pan  5  and  to  that  the  fecond,  and 
then  the  third,  and  the  fourth,  aiad  fo 
on,  till  by  mixing  they  all  become 
of  a  fuiBcient  ftrength  j  then  put  them  in 
Bottles,  with  a  Knob  or  two  of  double-re« 
fin'd  Loaf- Sugar,  and  cork  them  clofe.  This 
is  an  incomparable  pleafant  Dram,  tafting 
Jikelce^  or  Snow,  in  the  Mouth;  but  creates 

a 


Part  IL        Director.  105 

a  fine  warmth  in  the  Stomachy  and  yields  4 
mofl:  refrefhing  Flavour. 

This  Sort  of  Mint  is  hard  to  be  met 
with;  but  is  lately  cultivated  in  fome  Phy- 
fick  Gardens  at  Mitcham.  It  mufl:  be  kept 
well  weeded,  and  the  top  of  the  Bed,  where 
it  grows ,  mufl:',  when  we  cut  it,  be 
pricked  up,  a  little,  with  a  fmall  Fork,  or 
the  Earth  made  fine  with  a  Trowels  becaufe 
the  Runners,  of  this  fort  of  Mint,  fhoot  a- 
long  upon  the  Surface  of  the  Ground,  and 
fo  at  the  Joints  fl:rike  Root,  which  is  con- 
tra y  to  other  Sorts  of  Mint,  which  fhoot 
their  Runners  under  ground. 

Damfon-Wine  to  imitate  Claret.    From 
the  fame. 

'  I  "^AKE  nine  Gallons  of  Water,  make 
Jl  it  fcalding  hot,  and  pour  it  upon 
fix  and  thirty  Pounds  of  Malaga  Raifins 
well  pick'd  from  the  Stalks.  The  Raifins 
I  fhould  be  found,  or  they  will  fpoil  your 
Wine.  While  the  Water  is  yet  hot,  put 
into  the  Liquor  half  a  Peck  of  Damfons  full 
ripe,  and  pick'd  clean  of  the  Stalks  and 
Leaves,  to  each  Gallon  of  Liquor  5  then 
ftir  them  all  together  in  the  open  Tub  we 
make  this  Infufion  in,  and  continue  fl:irring 
them  twice  a  Day  for  fix  Days.  Keep  this 
Tub  covered  with  a  Cloth  all  that  time : 
then  let  it  fl:and  five  or  fix  Days  longer,  with- 
out 


io6        The  Country  JLadys 

out  ftirlng,  and  then  draw  it  off :  and  if  \% 
is  not  dcep-colour'd  enough,  put  a  little 
Syrup  of  Mulberries  to  it,  and  work  it  with 
a  piece  of  White-Bread  toafted,  and  fpread 
with  Yeaft  or  B^rm,  in  an  open  Veflel ;  and 
then  tun  it,  keeping  the  Bung  of  the  Vef 
fel  open  till  the  Wine  has  done  finging  in 
the  Cask.  Then  flop  it  clofe,  and  let  it 
ftand  till  it  is  clear,  which  will  be  in  two 
or  three  Months  5  then  draw  it  off.  Some 
"will  juft  give  their  Damfons  a  fcald  in  the 
Wat^r  before  they  pour  it  on  the  Raifins, 
"which  is  a  good  way. 

T^o  Cure  a  Lap-Dog,  when  he  continues 
drowfy  Jbme  ^ays^  and  cannot  eat. 
From  the  fame. 

IF  you  find  a  Lap-Dog  to  be  fleepy,  and 
will  not  take  his  Viftuals  for  two  or 
three  Days ;  or  if  he  eats,  and  as  often  dif- 
charges  it  foon  after  5  take  a  large  Tea-fpoon- 
fuU  of  Rum  or  Brandy,  and  as  much  Wa- 
ter, and  holding  his  Head  up,  and  his  Mouth 
open  with  one  Hand,  pour  it  down  his 
Throat.  This  is  quantity  enough  for  one 
of  the  fmalleft  Dogs,  and  will  cure  him  in 
lefs  than  half  an  Hours  but  as  the  Dogs 
are  larger,  you  may  give  to  the  biggcft  a  large 
fpoonful  of  Rum  or  Brandy  equally  mix*d 
with  Water,  and  fo  in  proportion  to  the 
fize  of  the  Dog,     It  is  a  furc  Remedy. 

Dog: 


Part  II.       Director. 


IQ? 


Dog-Grafs,  or  Couch-Grafs,  or  Twitch-^ 
Grafs,  neceffary  to  be  had^  growing  in 
"Pots  in  London,  to  cure  Lap-Dogs,  that 
arejicky  in  the  Summer.  From  the  fame, 

COUCH-GRASS  is  one  of  the  Gar- 
dener's Plagues,  and  is  in  every  Gar- 
den too  much.  Take  a  Clump  of  this,  and 
fet  it  in  a  large  Garden-Pot,  and  letting  it 
ftand  as  airy  as  poffible,  water  it  gently 
every  other  Morning.  There  is  one  fort  of 
it,  which  is  finely  variegated,  the  Leaves 
appearing  like  ftriped  Ribbons.  This  fine 
fort  is  at  the  Ivy-Houfe  at  Hoxton^  where  it 
may  be  put  in  Pots  at  any  time.  This,  or 
the  other,  fhould  be  put  to  a  Dog,  at  any 
time,  when  he  is  fick,  and  he  will  eat  it 
greedily,  and  cure  himfelf ;  but  for  want 
of  this  Help,  which  favourite  Lap-Dogs  ia 
London  want,  they  lofe  their  brisknefs. 
I  believe  it  would  be  worth  fome  poor  Wo- 
man's while  to  fell  this  Grafs,  in  London^ 
where  fo  many  fine  Lap-Dogs  are  kept,  and 
indulged  fo  much,  that  they  cannot  be 
taken  abroad  to  fearch  their  Phyfick  j  while 
thofe  of  the  larger  kind  take  their  way  a- 
broad,  in  the  Mornings,  at  their  pleafore. 
J  his.  Sir,  I  fend  you  with  fome  other  Re- 
ceipts,  becaufe  Dogs  are  not  a  little  ufeful 
about  a  Farm,  and  the  little  ones  are  no 
lefs  agreeable  to  their  Keepers.  And  I  an^ 

fure^ 


X08        The  Country  Ladys 

fure,  if  you  publifli  thefe,  they  will  prove 
very  acceptable  to  many  Ladies,  and  Gen- 
tlemen, wlio  arp  Admirers  of  thefe  faithful 
Creatures, 

/  amy  &c. 

J.  L. 

Lisbon  or  Portugal-Cakes.     From  the  fame. 

TAKE  a  Pound  of  double-refind  Loaf- 
Sugar  beaten  fine,  and  paft  through  a 
fine  Sieve.  Mix  this  with  a  Pound  of  fine 
flour  5  then  rub  into  thefe  a  Pound  of  frefh 
or  new  Butter,  till  your  Sugar  and  Flour 
looks  like  Bread-Crumbs ,  then  add,  two  or 
three  fpoonfulls  of  Orange-Flower- Water, 
and  about  ten  fpoonfuls  of  Canary- Wine ; 
then  beat  ten  Eggs,  till  their  Whites  are  whipt 
to  Snow,  and  mix  the  Eggs, with  the  reft,  with 
a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of  blanched  Almonds 
beaten  in  a  Marble  Mortar,  with  fome  O- 
range-Flower-Water  i  and  when  you  have 
butter  d  your  Pans  well,  fill  them  half  full 
with  this  Mixture,  and  bake  them,  if  you 
make  them  without  Currans,  orelfe  fill  the 
Pans  fuller,  firft  plumping  the  Currans,  which 
(hould  be  in  proportion,.  a3  you  pleafe. 

Imperial  Florentine.      From  Mr,  Byecorf 
at  Augsburgh. 

CUT  the  leaneft  part  of  a  Leg  of  Veal, 
in  thin  Slices,  and  beat  them  with  the 

Back 


Part  II.      Director.  ' 

Back  of  a  Knife,  as  you  would  do  Scots 
ColIups5  then  feafon  the  Cutlets  with 
Cloves,  Pepper  beaten  fine  to  powder,  fome 
Pepper  and  Salt,  with  fome  Nutmeg  grated, 
a  little  dry'd  fweet  Marjoram  powder'd,  or 
fome  fweet  BafiK  Lay  this  Mixture  pretty 
thick  upon  them,  and  roll  them  up  with  a 
little  Piece  of  fat  Bacon,  in  the  middle ; 
then  lay  inyourPaftetothe  Difh,  and  over 
the  Bottom  ftrew  a  little  Pepper,  Salt,  and 
Nutmeg,  with  fome  Balls  of  farced  Meat, 
with  bits  of  Butter,  placed  here  and  there. 
Put  in  then  your  rolls  of  Veal,  with  fome 
Cocks-Combs  blanched,  a  quarter  of  a  Pint 
of  Muihroom  Buttons  pickled,  fome  Slices 
of  Lemon,  with  half  a  Pint  of  White  Wine, 
and  about  a  Pint  of  Water  5  then  clofe  your 
Pye,  and  when  it  is  baked,  ferve  it  hot. 
N.JB.  Before  you  clofe  it,  put  fome  bits 
of  Butter  on  the  top  of  your  Rolls  of 
Meat. 

To  make  Farced  Meaty  for  the  foregoing 
Plorentine.     From  the  fame, 

TAKE  the  Lean  of  a  Leg  of  Veal, 
chop  it  fmall,  and  beat  it  well  in  a 
Marble  Mortar,  with  as  much  Fat  of  the 
Kidney  of  Veal ;  and  then  put  feme  Pepper, 
Salt,  Cloves,  Nutmeg.,  Powder  of  dry'd 
fweet  Marjoram,  and  fome  Mufhrooms, 
chopt  as  you  pleafe ;  then  add  as  many  Eggs, 

beaten 


tio       The  Country  Ladys 

beaten  as  you  think  proper,  with  feme  gra^ 
ted  Bread,  to  make  it  into  a  Pafte,  and  roll 
this  Mixture  into  Balls.  Some  inftead  of 
the  Kidney-Fat  of  Veal,  will  chop  the  fame 
quantity  of  fat  Bacon* 

To  make  a  Tart  of  white  Beet- Cards.  Froti/t 
the  fame. 

TAKE  fome  white   Beet- Cards,    (  or 
Leaves)  as  much  Spinach-Leaves,  and  the 
fame  quantity  of  French  Sorrel,  which  has  1 
round  Leaf.     Chop  thefe  fmall,   or  if  you 
beat  them  all  together  in  a  Marble  Mortar, 
it  is  better  j  then  ftrain  out  the  Juice,  and 
put  it  amongft  the  fame  proportion,  or  quari- 
tity,  of  the  fame  Herbs,  frefh  cut,   that  is, 
put  the  Liquor  to  as  m^ny  Herbs  as  you  cut 
before,  and  fhred  them  5  then  add  to  them 
about  five  Ounces  of  good  Sugar,  and  you 
may  put  as  much  Currans.     Mix  thefe  well, 
and  bake  them ;  then  pour  over  it,   whik 
it  is  hot,  fome  Cream  that  has  been  boil'd 
thick,  and  ferve  it  hot :  but  if  you  ufe  raw 
Cream,  from  the  Dairy,  you  muft  mix  it 
with  the  Ingredients,   and  then  ftrew  fine 
powder'd  Sugar  over  it,  but   ferve  it  hot^ 
let  it  be  which  way  you  will. 


n 


Part  It       D I R  E  c  T  o  £  iif 

To  make  a  Treferve  of  Quinces^    white 
in  Jelly.     From  the  fame. 

MAKE  a  Syrup  of  Golden-Pippinsi 
or  Golden-Rennets;  and  to  make 
that,  pare  your  Apples,  and  core  them,  but 
never  uie  two  forts  together,  for  one  will 
be  foft  before  the  other  is  half  done.  Al- 
ways take  this  for  a  Rule  in  Apples,  Oni- 
ons, and  Turnips;  they  fliould  be  all  of 
one  kind,  and  all  from  the  fame  Place,  or 
elfe  you  will  be  difappointed.  Boil  your 
Apples  with  their  weight  in  Sugar,  and  as 
much  Water  as  will  mix  with  it :  boil  this 
to  a  Jelly,  and  in  the  mean  time,  pare  your 
Quinces,  and  cut  them  in  Quarters,  taking 
them  clear  off  the  Core  %  then  boil  them^ 
firft  in  fair  Water,  till  they  are  a  little  ten- 
der, and  then  put  them  into  the  boiling 
Syrup,  and  keep  them  gently  boiling  half 
an  Hour,  or  what  one  might  more  properly 
call  ftewing.  If  the  Quinces  are  not  then^ 
clear,  boil  them  again,  the  next  Day,  in 
the  fame  Liquor  5  and  when  the  Quinces 
are  as  clear  as  they  can  be,  which  is  never 
very  much  like  other  Fruits,  but  we  Ihould 
rather  fay  tender,  put  them  into  Gallypots, 
or  Glaffes,  and  pour  the  Syrup,  or  Jelly,  o- 
ver  them,  to  keep  5  and  as  foon  as  they  are 
Cold,  then  put  Papers  over  them. 

To 


112       T^e  Country  Ladys 

To  Candy  whole  Orange,  or  Lemon-Pcels, 

TAKE  fomc  of  the  faired  Oranges, 
or  Lemons,  and  cut  a  fmall  hole  in 
the  top  of  them  i    then  fcoop  out  all  the 
Pulp,  as  clean  as  poflible  5  lay  thefe  in  Wa- 
ter to  fleep  eight  or  ten  Days,  fhifting  them 
to  frefli  Waters  twice  a  Day  5   then  boil 
them  in  feveral  Waters^  till  they  are  tender 
enough  to  run  a  Straw  through  themi  Then 
take   one    Pound  of  double-refind  Loaf- 
Sugar  to  each  Pound  of  Peel^  and  a  Quart 
of  Water  :  then  make  your  Syrup,  and  boil 
your  Peels  in  It  eight  or  ten  Minutes,  and 
let  them  ftand  in  your  Syrup  five  or  fix  Days^ 
in  an  earthen  glaz'd  Veffel,  for   it  would 
fpoil  in  a  Brafs  or  Copper  Pan  :  then  to  e- 
very  Pound  put  one  Pound  more  of  Sugar 
into  your  Syrup,  and  boil  your  Peels  in  itj 
till  they  are  clear  5  then  put  them  into  Gal- 
lypots,  and  boil  your  Syrup  till  it  is  almoft 
of  a  Candy  height,  and  pour  it  upon  your 
Peels  5  and  when  it  is  cold,  cover  it.     The 
fame   manner  they  preferve  the  Peels  of 
green   Oranges,  Lemons,   and  Limes,    ia 
Barbadoes, 

To  flew  Soles.^    From  Yarmouth. 

TA  K  E  the  largefl:  Soles  you  can  get,  gut 
them,  and  skin  them  5  lay  them  then 
into  a  Stew-pan,  and  pour  in  about  a  Pint 

of 


Part  II.         Director*  113 

of  good  Beef  Gravey,  and  as  much  Claret  5 
fome  bits  of  Lemon- Peel,  an  Anchovy  or 
two,  a  ftick  of  Horfe-Radifh,  a  bunch  of 
fweet  Herbs,  a  large  Onion,  half  a  large 
Nutmeg,  fome  Cloves  and  Mace,  whole 
Pepper,  and  Salt,  with  a  little  bit  of  Butter. 
Then  ftew  thefe  till  the  Fifh  is  enough,  and 
pour  off  the  Liquor,  through  a  Sieve,  and 
thicken  it  with  burnt  Butter,  having  firft 
put  to  it  the  Juice  of  a  Lemon.  Then  pour 
the  Sauce  over  the  Fifh,  and  garnifh  with 
Lemon  fliced,  and  the  Roots  of  r^d  Beets 
pickled  and  fliced,  with Horfe-Radifh  fcraped^ 
and  fry'd  Bread. 

A  Hajh  of  raw  Beef.     From  Mr.  Moring 
at  the  Blue-Tofts  Temple-Bar. 

CUT  fome  thin  Slices^bf  tender  Beef^ 
and  put  them  in  a  Stew-Pan,  with 
a  little  Water,  a  bunch  of  fweet  Herbs, 
fome  Lemon-Peelj  an  Onion,  with  fome 
Pepper,  Salt,  and  fome  Nutmeg*  Cover 
thefe  clofe,  and  let  them  flew  till  they  are 
tender  i  then  pour  in  a  Glafs  or  two  of 
Claret;  and  when  it  is  warm,  clear  your 
Sauce  of  the  Onion,  Herbs,  &c.  and  thic- 
ken it  with  burnt  Butter.  It  is  an  excel- 
lent Dilh.  Serve  it  hot,  and  garnifh  with 
Lemon  fliced,  and  red  Beet-Roots,  Capers^ 
and  fuch  like. 

I  Thin 


114       ^^  Country  Ladys 

Thin  Beef-CoUups  fiewd.     From  Oxford"- 

CUT  raw  Beef  in  ,tjiihi  Slices,  as  you 
would  do  Veal,  for  Scots  Collups  j 
lay  them  in  a  Difh,  with  a  little  Water,  a 
GlafsofWinc,  a  Shallot,  fome  Pepper  and 
Salt,  and  a  little  fweet  Marjoram  powder- 
ed i  then  clap  another  Difh  over  that,  having 
firft  put  a  thin  flice  or  two  of  fat  Bacon 
among  your  Collups :  then  fet  your  Mefs,  fo 
as  to  reft  upon  the  backs  of  two  Chairs,  and 
take  fix  Sheets  of  whited-brown  Paper,  and 
tear  it  in  long  Pieces  5  and  then  lighting  one 
of  them,  hold  it  under  the  Difh,  till  it  burns 
out,  then  light  another,  and  fo  another  till 
all  your  Paper  is  burnt  5  and  then  your  Stew 
will  be  enough,  and  full  of  Gravey.  Some 
will  put  in  a  little  Mufliroom  Gravey,  with 
the  Water,  and  the  other  Ingredients,  which 
is  yet  a  very  good  way. 

Stewd  Beef-Steaks.    From  the  Spring-Gar- 
dens at  Vaux-Hall,   Surrey. 

■^AKE  good  Rump-Beef  Steaks,    and 

feafon  them  with  Pepper  and  Salt  5 

then  lay  them  into  the  Pan,  and  pour  in  a  lit- 
tle Water  j  then  add  a  bunch  of  fweet  Herbs 
a  few  Cloves,  an  Anchovy,  a  little  Ver- 
juice, an  Onion,  and  a  little  Lemon-Peel, 
with  a  little  bit  of  Butter,  or  fat  Bacon, 
and  a  Glafsof  White  Wine.     Cover  thefe 

clofe. 


Part  II.       Director.  115 

clofe,  and  flew  them  gently,  and  when  they 
are  tender,  pour  away  the  Sauce,  and  ftrain 
it;  then  take  out  the  Steaks,  and  flour 
them,  and  fry  them;  and  when  you  put 
them  m  the  Dilh,  thicken  the  Sauce,  and 
pour  it  over  them.  This  way  was  much 
approved. 

To  make  Cologn's-Geneva.  From  Cologn. 

TAKE  good  Brandy,  one  Gallon  5  then 
take  two  Pounds  of  Juniper-berries 
frefh  gathered,  and  full  ripe.  Prefs  thefe  till 
you  perceive  a  greenifh  Liquor  come  from 
them  5  then  put  them  into  the  Brandy,  and 
let  them  remain  about  ten  Days  :  then  pour 
them  through  a  Cloth  of  coarfe  Linnen, 
and  fqueeze  it,  and  when  you  have  the  Li- 
quor, if  you  find  it  too  ftrong,  you  may 
add  to  it  fome  more  Brandy,  and  half  a 
Pound  of  fine  Sugar  to  a  Gallon.  Then 
put  it  in  Flasks,  or  Bottles. 

Then  take  the  Prellings,  and  infufe  them 
again  in  Brandy,  for  fix  or  feven  Days,  and 
diftil  them.  This  they  call  double  Cologne 
Gin,  and  the  beft  is  fold  in  Hollandy  at  three 
Shillings  and  Six-pence /^r  Quart. 

To   make  Scots- SnufF,    or  pure  Tobacco- 
SnufF.     From  Mr.  Hyflop. 

TAKE  the  Leaves  of  good   Tobacco, 
and  fpread  them  open  5  then  dry  them 
I  2  gentlj 


ii6       Ihe  Country  Ladys 

gently  in  the  Sun,  or  before  the  Fire,  and 
ftrip  them  from  the  Stalks  i  when  the  leafy 
part  will  crumble,  between  the  Fingers; 
then  put  it  into  a  Mill,  and  with  a  Peftle 
rolling  about  it,  the  Tobacco  will  prefently 
be  ground,  as  fine  as  SnufFj  orelfe,  if  you 
have  never  a  Mill,  when  your  Tobacco  will 
break  between  the  Fingers,  lay  it  on  an 
oaken  Table,  and  pafs  the  flat  fide  of  a 
Knife  over  it,  backwards  and  forwards,  as 
if  you  was  whetting  it,  pre  (ling  it  hard,  and 
you  will  make  fine  Snuff.  This  I  mention 
here,  becaufe,  fometimes,  the  Snuff-takers 
are  without  Snuff,  and  remote  from  any 
Place  where  it  m^y  be  had,  and  would  give 
any  Money  for  it  5  which  was  my  Cafe, 
when  I  Icarn'd  this  Receipt,  and  by  the 
laft  Means  was  prefently  fupplied  :  we  may 
make  it  likewife  of  cut  Tobacco  dry'd  be- 
fore the  Fire. 

Or  if  we  raife  Tobacco  in  our  Gardens, 
pick  the  Leaves  from  the  Stalks,  towards 
the  Root,  when  they  are  full  grown,  tie 
fix  in  a  bunch  together,  and  hang  them  up 
to  dry  in  the  Shade  5  then  dip  them  in  Wa- 
ter, or  fomc  Beer  or  Ale,  and  hang  them 
up  again  to  dry,  and  then  prefs  the  I  eaves 
one  upon  another,  in  their  Bunches,  in  a 
Box  or  Tub,  as  hard  ai>  poflible ;  and  in  a 
few  Months  time,  they  wii]  ^^"^ake  very  good 
Snuff,  being  order  d  as  above  direfted 

Butter 


I 


Part  11.       Director.  117 

Butter  turned  to  Oil  recovered.     From 
Mrs.  M.  N. 

THERE  are  fome  Lands,  as  well  as 
fome  Treatments  of  Butter  in  the 
Dairy,  that  ma'kes  the  Butter  fo  very  fat 
and  greafy,  that  it  is  hard  to  melt,  without 
running  to  Oil,  while,  oh  the  other  hand, 
there  is  a  fort  of  Butter,  which  cuts  as  firm 
as  Wax  5  and  even  this  will  fometimes  turn 
to  Oil  in  the  melting,  but  very  feldom. 
However,  when  it  fo  happens,  pour  your 
oil'd  Butter  into  a  Porringer,  and  letting  it 
ftand  a  little,  melt  a  little  frefh,  and  as  foon 
as  it  is  liquid,  pour  into  it,  by  gentle  de- 
grees, at  times,  fome  of  the  Butter  that  was 
oird  before,  keeping  your  Sauce-pan  fhaking 
all  the  whiles  and  if  you  find  it  any  way 
difficult  to  be  recovered,  pour  in  a  little 
Milk,  and  fhake  them  together,  and  it  will 
recover.  Memorandum^  A  Sauce- pan  that 
is  very  thin  at  the  Bottom  is  apt  to  oil  But- 
ter^   let  it  be  ever  fo  good. 

Orange  or  Lemon-Cakes.    From  the  fame. 

TAKE  fome  preferv'd  Orange  or  Le- 
mon-Peels, wafh'd  from  their  Syrup  5 
then  beat  them,  in  a  Marble  Mortar,  to  a 
Pulp,  adding  a  little  Orange- Flower-Water 
to  them,  and  a  very  little  Gum-Arabic  to  it 
powder  d,   this  will  become  a  Pafte  i  then 

I  3  mould 


II 8       T'he  Country  Ladys 

mould  it  into  Cakes,  with  double-refined 
Sugar  beaten  fine,  and  dry  them  j  they  muft 
then  be  laid  in  Boxes,  between  fheets  of 
white  Paper,  and  kept  in  a  dry  Place. 

To  dry  Plums,  of  any  forty  without  Sugar. 
From  the  fame. 

TAKE  a  Wyre  Sieve,  and  gather  your 
Plums,  not  too  ripe,  nor  in  the  heat 
of  the  Day;  run  a  Needle  through  the  Skin 
of  each  of  them,  and  lay  them  on  the  Sieve, 
fo  as  not  to  touch  one  another.  Put  your 
Sieve  then  into  a  declining  Oven,  and  let 
it  ftand  twelve  Hours;  then  let  it  by,  and  re- 
peat the  fame  the  fecond  and  third  time, 
and  if  the  Plums  are  large,  then  it  may  be 
they  will  require  the  fourth  or  fifth  time ; 
but  turn  them  every  time,  when  you  are 
going  to  put  them  in  the  Oven.  They 
will  dry  by  this  Means  fo  well,  that  you 
may  keep  them  all  the  Winter,  for  ufe,  in 
Boxes,  in  a  dry  Place.  Memorandum,  Some 
of  them  will  candy  on  the  Outfides.  The 
Mpflel-Plum  is  a  very  good  one  for  this 
ufe. 

The  Shropfhire  ^^^  Worcefterfliire-Difh, 
From  the  fame. 
Sir, 

IF  you  would  pleafe  all  People,  by  the 
feveral  Receipts  you  publifh,  you  ought 

tQ 


Part  II.        Director.  119 

to  have  the  particular  Difh  that  is  the  Fa- 
vourite of  every  County.  In  IVorceJierfhire 
and  Shropjhirey  the  following  is  in  efteem, 
and  I  believe  you  will  oblige  feveral  Gen- 
tlemen and  Ladies  of  thefe  Parts,  if  you 
would  infert  it  in  fome  of  your  Works. 

Take  fome  good   middling  Bacon,  and 
fry  it  5  then  put  in  fome  Calfs  Liver,  and 
cut  it  in  thick  Pieces,  pepper  it,    and  fait 
it  J  and  when  it  is  enough,  for  it  muft  not 
be  fry'd  hard,    have  ready  prepared   fome 
Cabbage-Lettuce,   fome  white  Beet-Cards, 
or  Beet-Leaves,    and  fome  Spinach-Leaves, 
and  chop  them  together,  with  fome  Parfley, 
but  not  too  fmall  5  then  chop  fome  Onion, 
and  mix  with  the  reft  5    then  throw  them 
into  your  Frying  pan,  with  a  piece  of  Butter, 
when  the  Bacon  and  Liver  is  out,  and  fry 
them  till  they  are  tender,   and  as  brown  as 
may  be$  putting  in  a  fpoonful  of  Verjuice, 
or  the  Juice  of  a  Lemon,    a  little  before 
they  are  enough.  And  having  kept  the  Li- 
ver and  Bacon  hot  all  the  while,  pour  thefe 
Herbs  over  them,  which  ought  to  be  in  good 
quantity. 

Fine  Cakes  to  keep.    From  the  fame, 

TAKE  a  Pound  of  fine  Sugar  pow- 
dered, and  fome  what  lefs  than  a 
Quart  of  Flour.  Rub  thefe  with  a  Pound 
of  frefh  Butter,  and  mix  it  with  three  or 

I  4  four 


120       "The  Country  Ladys 

four  Yolks  of  Eggs,  with  fome  Orange- 
Flower- Water,  and  a  little  Ale-Yeaft :  fet 
this  Pafte  before  the  Fke  to  rife,  and  roll 
put  your  Cakes  thin,  while  the  Pafte  is  hot  5 
then  cut  them  into  what  Shapes  you  pleafe, 
and  prick  them  on  the  top,  and  bake  them 
in  a  gentle  Oven.  They  will  keep  a  long 
time  and  are  very  good. 

To  make  Penzance?fCakes,    From  the  fame. 

'TT^  AKE  the  Yolks  of  Eggs  well  beaten, 
\  put  to  them  iome  Mace  finely  pow- 
dered, with  a  few  fpoonfuls  of  Wine,  a 
little  Salt,  and  as  much  Sugar  as  you  pleafe  5 
then  add  as  much  Flour  as  is  neceffary,  and 
a  fmall  quantity  of  Ale-Yeaft,  and  work 
your  Dough  pretty  ftifF;  then  add  fome 
frefh  Butter,  broken  in  little  bits,  and  work 
it  in  till  ail  the  Pafte  has  partaken  of  it, 
and  the  Dough  becomes  as  ftift  as  at  firft. 
Make  your  Cakes  then,  and  bake  them. 
They  will  keep  fome  time. 

To  make  Cryjial  candy  d  Sweet-meats. 
From  the  fame. 

WHEN  we  propofe  to  make  thefe  can- 
dy'd  Sweetmeats,  w^e  muft  firft: 
know  what  Fruits,  Flowers,  &c.  are  piro- 
per  for  them,  and  how  thofe  ought  to  be 
gathered  and  prepared. 

Firft 


Part  11.       Director.  121 

Firft  of  all,  to  begin  with  the  Flowers. 
I  Take  Orange-Flowers,  or  Lemon,  or  Ci- 
tron-Flowers5  gather  them,  when  the  Dew 
is  upon  them,  in  the  Morning,  becaufe  the 
Leaves  of  them  will  be  then  full,  and  then 
they  are  beft  to  ufe,  when  the  Leaves  are 
pickM  off,  and  then  the  Dew  will  be  gone  ; 
but  if  they  lie  a  Day,  they  will  (brink,  turn 
bitter,  and  of  a  yellowilh  brown  Colour. 
Take  thefe  Leaves  frefh  picked,  and  pour  the 
following  Compofition  upon  them. 

You  may  take  alfo  fome  Orange,  or  Le- 
mon, or  Citron,  preferred,  and  dry'd,  and 
cut  them  in  fmall  pieces.  Or  Apricots  dry'd 
and  cut  into  fmall  pieces,  or  fuch  forts  as  are 
a  little  hard  in  themfelves  will  do.  If  one 
was  to  cut  fome  Pine-Apple,  or  Ananas, 
fimply  or  preferv'd,  and  cut  that  in  pieces, 
it  would  beentomb'd  in  a  Rock  of  Sui^ar; 
or  Currans  preferv'd  upon  their  Stalks  may 
do,  if  you  think  it  worth  while  5  but  O- 
range-Flower-Leaves  do  very  well.  It  is 
a  fine  Candy  to  carry  in  the  Pocket. 

Then  to  begin  your  Bufinefs.  Take  one 
Pound  of  double-refined  Loaf-Su^ar  beat 
fmall,  and  finely  lifted  5  mix  this  with  four 
or  five  fpoonfuls  of  Orange-Flower- Water, 
and  about  half  a  Drachm  of  Gum-Arabic 
finely  beaten  $  then  put  three  fpoonfuls  of 
White  Wine,  and  mix  all  together,  and  boil 
them  in  a  glazed  earthen  Veffel  till  theLiquor 
will  hardly  run,  or  at  leaft  run  in  Ropes  5  then 

have 


122       Hoe  Country  Ladys 

have  fmall  Jars  of  earthen  Ware  glazed, and 
put  into  each  of  them  the  feverai  forts  of 
Fruits,  and  Flowers,  you  would  inclofe  in 
candy 'd  Sugar,  making  thofe  Jars  very  hot, 
and  immediately  pour  theLiquor  upon  them, 
and  flop  themclofe,  then  put  the  Jars  into 
a  Stove,  for  a  fortnight  or  more,  and  you 
may  then  break  the  Jars,  and  your  feverai 
Fruits  and  Flowers  will  be  inclofed  in  a  cry- 
ftal  like  Candy,  fuch  as  white  Sugar- Can- 
dy. And  then  with  a  flight  blow  of  an  Ham- 
mer, break  thefe  Candies  into  Pieces  of  a- 
bout  a  Finger's  length,  and  keep  them  in 
Glaffes  flopt  clofe,  in  a  dry  Place,  and 
they  will  remain  good  feverai  Years.  The 
little  Pots  mufi  be  broken  of  courfe. 

T^o  make  a  Hackin.     From  a  Gentleman  in 
Cumberland. 
Sir, 

THERE  are  fome  Counties  in  Eng- 
land^ whofe  Cufloms  are  never  to 
befet  afidcj  and  our  Yii^ndi^vaCumberlandy 
as  well  as  fome  of  our  Neighbours  in  Lan- 
cajhirey  and  elfe-where,  keep  them  up.  It 
is  a  Cuflom  with  us  every  Chriflmas-X^z^ 
in  the  Morning,  to  have,  what  we  call  an 
Hackin,  for  the  Breakfafl  of  the  young  Men 
who  work  about  our  Houfe  5  and  if  this  Difli 
is  not  dreffed  by  that  time  it  is  Day-light, 
the  Maid  is  led  through  the  Town,  between 
two  Men,  as  fafl  as  they  can  run  with  her, 

up 


Part  IL       Director.  123 

up  Hill  and  down  Hill,  which  fhe  accounts 
If   a  great  fhame.    But  as  for  the  Receipt  to 
make  this  Hackin,  which  is  admired  fo  much 
by  us,  it  is  as  follows. 

Take  the  Bag  or  Paunch  of  a  Calf,  and 
wafh  it,  and  clean  it  well  with  Water  and 
Salt  i  then  take  fome  Beef-Suet,  and  fhred 
it  fmall,  and  fhred  fome  Apples,  after  they 
are  pared  and  cored,  very  fmall.  Then  put 
in  fome  Sugar,  and  fome  Spice  beaten  fmall, 
a  little  Lemon-Peel  cut  very  fine,  and  a 
little  Salt,  and  a  good  quantity  of  Grots, 
or  whole  Oat-meal,  fteep'd  a  Night  in  Milk  5 
then  mix  thefe  all  together,  and  add  as  ma- 
ny Currans  pick'd  clean  from  the  Stalks, 
and  rubb'd  in  a  coarfe  Cloth  5  but  let  them 
not  be  wafh'd.  And  when  you  have  all  rea- 
dy, mix  them  together,  and  put  them  into 
the  Calf VBag,  and  tye  them  up,  and  boil 
them  till  they  are  enough.  You  may,  if  you 
will,  mix  up  with  the  whole,  fome  Eggs 
beaten,  which  will  help  to  bind  it.  This 
is  our  Cuftom  to  have  ready,  at  the  open- 
ing of  the  Doors,  on  Chrifimas-V>7Cj  in 
the  Morning.  It  is  efteem'd  here;  but  all 
that  I  can  fay  to  you  of  it,  is,  that  it  eats 
fomewhat  like  a  Chrijimas-Vy^,  or  is  fome- 
what  like  that  boil'd.  1  had  forgot  to  fay, 
that  with  the  reft  of  the  Ingredients,  there 
Ihould  be  fome  Lean  of  tender  Beef  minced 
fmall. 

The 


124       ^^  Country  Lady  s 

The  Northampton-Cake. 

TAKE  a  Peck  of  Flour,  and  a  Pound 
of  fine  Sugar  beaten  well  into  Pow- 
der, and  fifted;  then  add  a  quarter  of  an 
Ounce  of  Cloves,  half  an  Ounce  of  Cin- 
namon, and  a  large  Nutmeg,  and  beat  them 
to  powdery  put  to  this  fome  Orange-Flow- 
er-Water, or  Rofe- Water;  then  take  five 
or  fix  Pounds  of  Currans  well  pick'd,  and 
rub'd  dry  with  a  coarfe  Cloth,  but  not 
wafh'd.  Put  thefe  with  your  Fruit,  and  a 
little  Salt  into  the  Flour  j  then  take  as  much 
Cream  as  you  think  proper :  then  melt  two 
Pounds  of  Butter,  to  mix  with  it,  and  add 
a  Pint  of  Canary- Wine,  and  kneed  it  with 
fome  frefh  Ale-Yeaft,  till  it  rifes  under  your 
Jiand.  Have  your  Oven  hot  before  you  put 
it  in  the  Hoop  for  Baking. 

Of  the  Baking  of  Fruit.   From  Mr,  L.  M. 

IT  is  to  be  obferved,  that  all  Fruits  that 
are  ripe  require  little  baking,  and  thofe 
which  are  of  the  hardeft,  or  mod  unripe 
Sorts,  ought  to  have  a  long  and  gentle 
baking.  In  Pears,  for  example,  when  we 
have  fome  of  thofe,  which  ripen  in  the  Au- 
tumn, they  will  bake  with  a  Tart ;  for  as 
they  are  ripe  of  themfelves,  they  requite 
very  little  baking,  for  Ripenefs  is  one  de- 
gree tending  to  Rottennefs  5  and  as  that  is 

done 


Part  11.       Director,  125 

done  by  heat  gently,  fo  the  Oven  brings 
that  to  a  certain  height,  fuddenly,  with  its 
fafeguard  of  Sugar  5  that  the  Fruit  comes 
to  its  full  flavour,  with  the  additional  beau- 
ty, from  the  Sugar.  It  would  have  done 
a  great  deal  by  Nature  itfelf,  if  the  Tree  had 
fiood  in  a  place  agreeable;  but  much  more 
would  it  be  for  thofe  baking  Pears,  as  we 
call  them,  if  they  had  the  advantage  of  a 
good  Climate  5  one  may  guefs  then  how 
much  difference  there  is  between  one  and 
the  other.  In  the  tough  and  hard  Pears, 
one  ought  to  bake  them  twice,  that  is,  once 
with  a  little  Water  and  Sugar,  in  as  hot  an 
Oven  as  they  bake  Bread  in  5  and  then  put 
them  in  Pyes,  and  bake  them  over  again, 
fo  will  they  become  tender,  well  tafted,  and 
of  a  fine  colour.  But  be  it  as  it  will,  as 
foon  as  either  of  thefe  come  out  of  the  O- 
ven,  pour  Ibme  Cream  over  them,  and  mix 
it  with  them,  if  chey  are  to  be  ferved  hot, 
mafhing  the  Fruit  all  the  while  j  but  if  they 
are  to  be  lerved  cold,  then  only  pour  fome 
Cream  over  them,  when  they  jufi  come  from 
the  Oven,  and  let  it  remain  till  you  ferve 
it  cold. 

There  is  one  way  which  is  praftifed  by 
fome,  and  that  is,  to  break  the  hard  Pears, 
juft  when  they  are  taken  out  of  the  Oven, 
in  the  Pye  5  for  elfe  the  outfides,  though 
the  Rind  is  off,  will  be  hard,  and  tough : 

then 


126       The  Country  hadys 

then  pour  on  the  Cream.  It  is  to  be  noted, 
that  all  ripe  Apples  require  Icfs  baking,  and 
lefs  Sugar,  than  the  hard  Apples,  which  do 
not  become  ripe  till  fome  Months  after- 
wards. When  an  Apple,  or  Pear,  for  ex- 
ample, is  as  ripe  as  it  can  be  in  our  Climate, 
it  will  have  fome  foftnefs,  and  fome  fweet- 
nefs  in  it,  and  therefore  will  require  lefs 
baking,  as  baking  is  only  a  fort  of  ripening ; 
and  fo  on  the  other  hand  :  but  we  are  provi- 
dentially provided  with  both  Apples  and 
Pears,  which  are,  fome  ripe  fooner,  and  fome 
ripe  later  5  even  that  by  the  end  of  3^^/^  we 
have  fome  ripe,  and  fome  remain  hard  and 
four  till  June.  We  ought  be  apprifed  of  the 
Sorts,  to  take  them  in  their  feveral  Seafons, 
and  not  to  take  the  Winter  Fruits,  for  bak- 
ing, when  we  have  ripe  Fruits  by  us.  Ma- 
ny thoufand  Bufhels  of  Fruit  are  loft  for 
want  of  this  Caution. 

So  at  any  time,  when  you  ufe  Apples,  or 
Pears,  for  Tarts,  Puddings,  or  Sauces,  let 
them  be  all  of  one  Sort,  and  ripe  j  for,  if 
they  are  ripe,  or  towards  it,  they  will  foon 
foften  5  and  if  you  put  two  Sorts  together, 
one  will  be  in  Pulp  very  foon,  and  the  o- 
ther  will  be  hard  for  an  Hour  or  two,  and 
at  length  will  not  be  foft.  Memorandum^ 
This  is  not  to  be  difregarded. 

To 


Part  IL      Director,  127 

To  make  Tafie,     From  Mrs,  Peafly. 

THERE  are  many  forts  of  Pafte  made, 
and  among  them,  are  fome  which  are 
made  with  Eggs,  according  to  the  old  fafhion; 
but  thefe  are  always  hard,  when  they  are 
baked,  though  they  will  fly  and  crackle  in 
the  Mouth,  but  they  tafte  like  Sticks :  while, 
on  the  other  fide,  leave  out  your  Eggs,  and 
ufe  Butter  and  Water  only,  as  in  the  fol- 
lowing Receipts,  and  your  Pafle  will  melt 
in  the  Mouth,  and  be  agreeable  to  the  I  afiC. 

If  you  would  have  a  fweet  Pafte  5  then, 
take  half  a  Pound  of  Butter,  and  rub  it  into 
about  a  Pound  of  Flour,  with  two  or  three 
Ounces  of  double  refined  Sugar  powdered, 
and  make  it  a  Pafte,  with  cold  Milk,  fome 
Sack  and  Brandy.     This  is  a  very  good  one. 

You  may  alio  make  an  hot  Pafte,  for 
minced  Pyes,  or  fuch  like,  by  taking  a  quan- 
tity of  Flour  as  you  like,  and  break  a  Pound 
or  two  of  Butter  into  a  large  Sauce-pan  of 
Water  J  and  when  the  Butter  is  melted, 
make  an  hollow  in  the  midft  of  the  Flour, 
and  fcumming  off  the  Butter,  throw  it,  at 
times,  into  the  Flour,  with  fome  of  the 
boiling  hot  Water  along  with  it,-  then, 
when  you  have  enough  for  your  ufe,  work 
it  into  a  ftifF  Pafte,  and  lay  it  before  the 
Fire,  covered  with  a  Cloth,  and  cut  off 
fuch  bits  as  you  want,   juft  when  you  are 

goin§ 


128        The  Country  Ladys 

going  to  ufe  them.     This  Pafte  does  very 
well  for  raifed  Pyes.     Some  will  make  this 
Pafte  by  breaking  in  a  Pound  of  Butter  in* 
to  a  quarter  of  a  Peck  of  Flour,  and  then 
pouring  on  it  fome  fcalding  hot  Water, 
enough  to  work  it  to  a  ftifF  Pafte.     As  for 
Tarts,  one  may  make  the  following  PufF- 
Pafte.     Rub  in  fome  Butter  into  your  Flour, 
and  make  it  into  a  Pafte  with  Water,  and 
when  it  is  moulded,  roll  it  out  till  it  is  a- 
bout  half  an  Inch  thick  5  then  put  bits  of 
Butter  upon  it,  about  half  an  Inch  afunder, 
and  fold  your  Pafte  together,  and  then  fold 
it  again  :   then  roll  it  again  till  it  becomes 
of  the  thicknefs  it  was  before  5  and  then  lay 
bits  of  Butter  on  it,  as  before  direded,  and 
fold  it  as  mention  d  above,  and  roll  it  again 
to  the  thicknefs  of  half  an  Inch  5  then  put 
on  the  reft  of  your  Butter,  and  fold  it  up, 
and  roll  it  for  the  laft  time,  doubling  it, 
and  roiling  it  twice,  before  yoa  ufe  it.  This 
is  very  good  for  Puffs,  Puddings,  or  Petty- 
Patees. 

As  for  Meat-Pyes,  or  Pafties,  they  require 
another  fort  of  Pafte,  which  is  made  thus. 
Rub  feven  Pounds  of  Butter  into  a  Peck 
of  Flour,  but  not  too  fmall  5  then  make  it 
into  a  Pafte  with  Water.  It  is  good  for 
Vcnifon-Pafties,  and  fuch  like  great  Pyes. 

To 


^art  11.       Di  R  E  c  TOR.  X  29 

To  drefs  a  T>ifb  of  Fifh  in  the  befl  man^ 
ner.    From  the  fame, 

TO  make  one  df  thefe  grand  Difhes,  you 
ought  always  to  have  fome  capita]  fort: 
of  Fifh,  fotthe  ir\iddle  of  theDifhi  fuch  as 
a  Turbut,  a  Jowl  of  frefh  Salmon>  a  Cod's 
Head,  or  a  Pike  boiled  ^  and  this  miift  be 
adorn'd  either  with  Floundersj  Whitings, 
SoleSj  Perch,  Smelts,  or  Gudgeons,  or  Bourn^ 
Trouts,  which  are  the  fmall  River  Trouts, 
or  young  Salmon-Fry,  according  as  you 
can  meet  with  them.  This  kind  of  Difh 
is  caird  a  Bifque  of  Fifh. 

To  boil  Frejb  Salmon. 

IF  you  have  frefh  Salmon,  you  wafh  it 
with  Salt  and  Water,  and  according  to 
the  Fafhion,  leave  all  the  Scales  on,  though 
fome  take  them  off,  to  prevent  that  trouble 
at  the  Table,  for  the  Skin  of  the  Sairnon 
is  the  fatteft  part  of  the  Fifh,  and  is  liked 
by  liioft  People.  Lay  your  Fifh  thus  prepared, 
into  the  Pan,  where  you  boil  it,  and  pour 
in  Water,  with  a  fixth  part  of  Vinegar,  a 
little  Salt,  and  a  ftiek  of  Horfe-Radifli  5  this 
fhould  be  boiled  pretty  quick  :  thus  far  for 
boiling  frefh  Salmon.  The  grand  Sauce 
for  it  you  will  fee  at  the  end  of  thefe  Re- 
ceipts, for  preparing  the  feveral  forts  of 
lifh  for  the  Bifque  i  but  if  it  13  ftrved  alone, 

¥s  thca 


x^o       T/je  Country  Ladys 

then  let  the  Sauce  be  as  follows.  Take  a 
Pint  of  Shrimps,  a  Pint  of  Oyfters  and  their 
Liquor,  and  half  a  Pint  of  pickled  Mufh- 
rooms ;  or  elfe  take  Shrimps,  and  the  Bodies 
of  two  middling  Sea-Crabs,  or  of  a  couple 
of  Lobfters,  the  Tail  of  the  Lobfters  to  be 
cut  in  Dice,  but  ufe  which  you  have  by  you- 
If  you  have  Oyfters,  ftew  them  a  little,  in 
their  own  Liquor,  with  fome  Mace,  and 
whole  Pepper,  then  lay  by  the  Oyfters,  and 
put  Mufnroom  Pickle  to  the  Liquor,  and 
diffolve  two  Anchovies  in  it  5  then  melt 
what  quantity  of  Butter  you  think  fit,  and 
mix  your  prepared  Liquor  with  it,  adding 
a  little  White  Wine,  or  that  may  be  left 
out.  I  fhould  take  notice,  that  juft  before 
you  melt  your  Butter,  put  your  Oyfters, 
Shrimps,  and  Mufhrooms,  &c.  into  your 
prepared  Liquor  to  boil  up,  and  then  mix 
all  together.  NotCy  The  Bodies  of  the  Crabs 
being  well  ftirred  in  the  Liquor,  will  thicken 
it,  and  render  the  whole  very  agreeable. 

To  boil  Turbut,  Flounders,  or  Plaifc,  Pike, 
or  a  Cod's-Head,  or  Whitings. 

WHEN  your  Pifti  are  gutted  and  well 
wafh'd :  put  them  upon  your  Filh- 
Plate^  the  Jacks  or  Pikes,  whether  fmall 
or  great,  muft  have  their  Tails  skewer'd 
into  their  Mouths,  fo  that  they  make  a  round 
figure,  which  is  the  Fafhion.  Then  put  your 
"   "  '^   ^    ~  Filli 


Part  II.         DiREctoRi  131 

Fifh  into  the  Kettle,  into  as  much  Water 
as  will  cover  them.  Put  into  this  Water, 
an  Onion,  with  fome  Cloves  iluck  in  it, 
fome  Mace,  fome  whole  Pepper,  a  little 
bunch  of  fweet  Herbs,  a  flick  of  Hor  fe-Raci  ifh, 
and  half  a  Lemon.  When  your  Liquor  boils, 
add  a  little  Vinegar,  or  Verjuice  5  and  when 
your  Filh  are  boiled  enough,  let  them  drain 
before  the  lire.  The  Sauce  for  thefe,  if  they 
are  ferved  fingly,  is  that  directed  for  the  Sal- 
mon, or  elfe  fome  melted  Butter,  Ancho- 
vies diflblved  in  Water,  over  the  Fire,  and 
fome  Shrimps,  or  for  want  of  them,  if  you 
can  get  any  of  the  fmall  Crabs,  fuch  as  they 
fell  in  hondorii  about  eight  or  ten  a  PcnnV;^ 
and  no  bigger  in  their  Bodies  than  to  con- 
tain the  quantity  of  a  Golden-Pippin.  Take 
the  Infide  of  the  Bodies  of  thefe,  and  thicken 
your  Sauce  with  them.  Or  if  you  have 
Crav-fifh,  take  the  Bodies  of  them^  and 
mix  them  well  with  your  Sauce,  and  cut 
I  the  Tails  in  fmall  bits,  as  big  as  Pcafe.  The 
foregoing  way  of  boiling  Filh  gives  them  a 
relifh. 

To  fry  Soles,  iFlounders,  Plaife,  Whitings, 
SmeltSj  and  Gudgeons,  or  fucb  like, 

TAKE  a  large  quantity  of  Hog's- Seam, 
or  Lard,  and  melt  it  in  a  Pan,  till  it 
is  very  hot  5  then  put  in  your  Fiih,  prepa- 
red as  follows :  but  firft  you  may  fry  fome 

K  2  Bread 


132        ^e  Country  Ladys 

Bread,  in  Lengths,   as  big  as  one's  Fing^, 
to  drain  for  a  Garnifti. 

As  for  Soles,  skin  them,  and  gut  them^ 
then  flour  them  well,  and  tofs  them  into 
the  Pan,  turning  them  once,  when  you  fee 
the  upper  fide  of  a  yellow  Colour.  When 
they  are  enough,  putthemintoa  CuUendar 
to  drain  before  the  Fire. 

Flounders  are  only  to  be  gutted,  and  the 
Skins  wafh'd  with  Water  and  Salt,  and  be- 
ing well  dry'd  with  a  Cloth,  flour  them^ 
and  fling  them  into  the  Pan,  and  ufe  them 
as  you  did  the  Soles. 

The  Piaife  are  to  be  done  in  the  fame 
manner  as  the  Flounders. 

Whitings  muft  be  treated  in  the  fame 
manner  as  the  former. 

Smelts  muft  be  only  rub'd  with  a  coarfe 
Cloth,  and  then  flour'd,  and  thrown  into 
the  Pan, 

Gudgeons  muft  be  fcaled  and  gutted,  well 
dry'd  and  flour'd,  and  thrown  into  the  hoc 
Lard :  but  take  care  in  all  thefe  that  you 
have  a  quick  Fire  under  them,  and  not  too 
aiLiany  in  the  Pan  at  one  time. 

You  have  now  all  your  Furniture  for  yout 
Bifquc  of  Fifli  j  but  to  fry  them  ftill  crifper, 
and  better,  ufe  Sallad-Oil  inftead  of  Hogs* 
Lard  5  or  if  you  have  neither  of  thefe,  you 
may  ufe  good  dripping  of  Beef,  or  Mutton, 
but  there  muft  be  enough  of  it;  and  itfliould 

"     ^^      be 


Part  II.         Director.  133 

be  as  hot  as  poffible,  in  the  Pan^  when 
you  throw  your  Fifh  in.  Serve  thefe  with 
melted  Butter,  and  Anchovy  Liquor,  with 
Shrimps^  or  Oyfters,  if  they  are  fmgle. 

To  broil  Whitings, 

CLEAN  your  Whitings,  with  Water 
and  Salt,  after  they  are  gutted,  and  dry- 
ing them  thoroughly,  flour  them  well,  then. 
lay  them  on  the  Grid-Iron,  firft  rubbing  it 
with  a  little  Chalk.  As  you  find  them  e^ 
nough  on  one  fide,  turn  them,  and  ferve 
them,  if  they  go  to  the  Table  alone,  with 
Butter  melted,  fome  Anchovy  Liquor,  and 
Oyfter  Sauce  j  thefe  may  make  one  of  your 
grand  Difhes  of  Fifh,  but  fry'd  and  boiled  is 
enough,  becaufe  there  is  never  a  Difh  of 
this  kind,  but  there  are  many  more  at  the 
fame  Treat,  which  will  give  the  Cook  a 
great  deal  of  difficulty,  and  befidesyou  muft 
ftill  in  this  Difh  have  fomc  Spitchgot-Eels. 

N.B*  I  forbear  to  m^ention  here  the 
manner  of  drefling  Spitchcot-Eels,  as  they 
are  already  fet  down  in  the  firft  part  of 
this  Book. 

When  you  fry  Whitings,  skewer  their 
Tails  in  their  Mouths  5  and  fome  take  off 
|heir  Skins, 

K  3  The 


134      ^^  Country  hadys. 

The  Grand  T>ifh  of  Fifh,  and  its  Sauce. 

HEN  we  have  prepared  thefe  thingS;, 
with  regard  to  the  grand  Difh  we  de- 
fign,  then  make  the  following  Sauce  :  'viz. 

Sauce  for  a  Bifque  of  Fifh. 

AKE  a  Pint  of  Gravey,  two  or  three 
fpoonfuls  of  Muihroom  Katchep, 
and  a  fpoonful  or  two  of  Mufhroom  Pickle  5 
then  add  about  a  Gill  of  White  Wine,  half 
an  Onion,  a  flice  of  Lemon  with  the  Peel, 
two  Anchovies  fhred,  fome  Cloves,  and 
Mace.  When  thefe  have  boiled  half  a  quar- 
ter of  an  Hour,  take  out  the  Onion,  and 
Lemon,  and  thicken  your  Liquor,  with  a- 
bout  three  Pounds  of  Butter,  ru|3'd  in  a 
little  Flour,  then  put  in  the  Body  of  a 
Crab,  or  Lobfter,  Shrimps,  Oyfters,  and 
Mufhrooms,  and  it  is  ready  to  pour  over 
your  Fifh :  but  fome  rather  chule  to  ferve 
this  Sauce  in  Bafons,  left  it  be  too  high  for 
every  Palate.  However,  when  you  have 
difpofed  your  Fifh  well  in  the  Difli,  garnifh. 
with  fry 'd  Bread,  Horfe-Radifh  fcraped,  fryYl 
Parfley,  Lemon  fliced  and  pickled,  red 
Beet-Root  fliced,  and  ferve  it  up  hot.  If 
your  Sauce  is  ferv'd  in  Bafons  5  then  take 
care  to  have  one  Bafon  of  plain  Butter  : 
but  if  all  your  Company  happens  to  like 
the  rich  Sauce,  your  Difh  of  Fifh  will  make 


Part  II.       Director.  135 

g.      ^r^micli-better  appearance  to  have  fome  of 
I      the  Sauce  pour'd  over  it,    before  you  lay 
on  your  Garnifh.     Remember  to  lay  your 
Spitchcot-Eels  near  the  edge  of  the  Difh. 

To  broil  Herrings,  fo  as  to  preveiit  their 
rifing  in  the  Stomach.     From  the  fa?ne, 

AKE  frefh  Herrings,  fcale them,  gut 
them,  and  waih  thcnij  and  when 
they  are  well  dry'd  with  a  Cloth,  ftrew  them 
with  flour  of  Ginger,  as  you  would  any  Fifh 
with  Flour,  then  broil  themj  and  when 
they  are  enough,  the  tafte  of  the  Ginger 
IS  quite  Ipft  :  then  ferve  them  with  Claret, 
Butter,  Salt,  and  Muftard,  made  into  a 
Sauce,  and  they  \yill  not  at  all  difturb  tiie 
Stomach. 

A  white  Fricaflee  of  Rabbits,     From  the 

fame, 

AKE  three  or  four  young  Rabbits^ 
and  cut  them  to  pieces,  then  put 
them  in  a  Stew-pan,  with  four  Ounces  of 
Butter  5  then  fcafon  them  with  fome  Le- 
mon-Peel grated,  a  little  Thyme,  a  little 
fweet  Marjoram,  Pepper,  Salt,  and  a  little 
Jamaica  Pepper  beaten  fine.  Let  thefe  be 
clofe  covered,  and  ftew  them  gently,  till 
they  are  tender  >  then  take  about  half  a  Pint 
of  Veal-Broth,  an  Onion,  fome  Lemon,  a 
Sprig  of  fweet  Marjoram,  and  fome  Spice, 

K  4  ?2 


136       "The  Country  Ladys 

to  your  mind,   and  put  to  it  half  a  Gill  of 
White  Wine.     Boil  thcfe  together  fix   or 
fevcn  Minutes,  then  pour  away  the  Butter, 
in  the  Stew-pan,  and  ftrain  your  Veal  Gra- 
vey  through  a  Sieve  i  then  beat  the  Yolks 
of  four  Eggs,  with  half  a  Pint  of  Cream. 
Then  put  fome  of  the  Broth,  by  degrees,  to 
the  Eggs  and  Cream,  keeping  them  ftirring, 
left   they  curdle,    and  you  may  put  to  it 
fome  Parfley  boil'd  tender,  and  fhred  fmall  > 
then  put  it  to  the  B^abbirs,    and  tofs  them 
up  thick  with  Butter,  adding  fome  pickled 
Mullirooms,    and  fcrve  them   hot  with  a 
Garnifh  of  diced  Lemon,  and  red  Beet- Root 
pickled. 

'A  Neat's-Tongue  roafted.     From  the  fame, 

TAKE  a  large  Neat's-Tongue,  that  has 
lain  three  Weeks  in  Salts  mixed  in 
the  following  manner.  Take  a  quarter  of 
a  Pound  of  Salt-Petre,  half  a  Pound  of 
Bay-Salt,  and  three  Pints  of  common  Salt. 
This  is  enough  to  fait  four  Tongues :  let 
them  be  rubb'd  well  with  this  Mixture,  and 
kept  in  a  cool  place.  Take,  I  fay,  one  of 
thefe  Tongues,  and  boil  it  till  the  Skin  will 
come  off  5  and  when  it  is  ftript  of  its  Skin, 
(lick  it  "With  Cloves,  about  an  Inch  afunder, 
then  put  it  on  a  Spit,  and  wrap  a  Veal-Cawl 
over  it,  till  it  is  enough ;  then  take  off  the 
Cawl,  and  juft  froth  it  up,  and  ferve  it  in  a 

Dim 


part  II.        Director.  137 

Diih  with  Gravey.  Notey  The  Cawl  will 
keep  the  outfide  tender,  which  othervvife 
would  be  hard.  One  muftferve  with  it,  in 
Saucers,  of  the  following  :  Grate  a  Penny- 
Loaf  into  about  a  Pint  of  Water,  and  half 
as  much  Claret ;  then  boil  it  thick,  with 
two  or  three  chips  of  Cinnamon,  then 
fweeten  it  to  your  mind,  as  you  pleafe : 
ftrew  fome  fifted  rafpings  of  Bread  about 
the  Difh,  and  garnifh  with  Lemon  fliced. 

To  drefs  a  Cow-HeeL     From  the  fame. 

TAKE  out  the  Bones,  and  clean  it,  cut 
it  to  pieces,  and  wafh  it  3    then  flour 
it,    and  ftrew  over  it  a  little  Pepper  and 
Salt,  then  fry  it  brpwn  in  HogVLard,  made 
very  hot  in  the  Pan.     Prepare  at  the  fame 
time  fome  fmall  Onions  boiled  whole,    till 
they  are  tender,  and  pull  off  as  many  of  the 
Coats  or  Skins,  till  you  fee  them  pure  white ; 
then  make  a  Sauce  of  Gravey,  fome  White- 
Wine,  Nutmeg,   and  a  litcfe  whole  Spice, 
with  a  little  Salt  and  Pepper,  and  thicken  it 
with  burnt  Butter.    Let  your  Onions,  when 
they  are  skin'd,  be  made  hot  in  Milk,  and 
lay  them  w^hole  in  the  Difh,  with  the  Cow- 
Heel,  and  pour  the  Sauce  over  the  whole. 
Some  who  have  ftrong  Stomachs  will  flicc 
Onions,  and  flouring  them  well,   fry  them 


138       ^e  Country  Ladys 

with  the  Cow-Heel,  but  this  muft  be  fry'd 
in  Butter. 

To  make  Marmalade  of  Quinces.      From 

the  fame* 

TA  KE  the  large  Tortugal  QuinceS;,  pare 
them,  and  take  out  the  Cores  5  then 
cut  each  Quince  in  eight  Parts,  and  throw 
them  in  Water  i  then  boil  the  Parings,  and 
fuch  of  the  Quinces  as  are  of  the  worfe  fort, 
m  two  Quarts  of  Water,   till  the  Liquor 
is  reduced  to  half  the  quantit)^ :  when  this 
is  drain  d,  put  the  Liquor  into  your  Preferv- 
ing-Pan,  with  a  Pound  of  fine  Sugar  pow- 
der d,  with  two  Pounds  of  Quinces :  boil 
thefe  gently,  till  they  are  tender.  Then  if 
you  defign    your  Marmalade  for  mixing 
with  Apples  in  Pyes  or  Tarts,  put  to  them 
a  Pound  more  of  Sugar  to  each  two  Pounds  5 
break  them  with  a  Spoon,  and  boil  them 
briskly,  keeping  them  ftirring  all  the  while  : 
then  put  them  hot  into  the  Gally-pot,  when 
they  are  thick,  and  of  a  reddilli  Colour.  To 
heighten  their  rednefs,  and  keep  them  from 
burning  to  the  bottom,    put  into  the  Pan 
four  or  five  pieces  of  pure  Tin,    as  big  as 
Half-Crowns.    But  if  you  would  have  your 
Marmalade  fine  for  Glaffes,  then,  when  they 
are  boii'd  tender,  take  them  out  of  the  Li- 
quor, and  beat  them  well  in  a  Marble  Mor- 
tar, and  rub  them  through  a  Sieve  5  then 


Part  II.       Director,  139 

put  to  them  a  Pound  of  fine  Sugar,  and 
ftir  them  well  in  the  Liquor,  boil  them 
quick,  ftirring  them  all  the  while,  till  they 
grow  thick. 

Memorandum^  While  they  are  boiling 
the  fecond  time,  put  in  fome  pieces  of  Tin, 
as  before,  and  when  they  are  enough,  pour 
them  hot  into  your  Glaffes  or  Cups,  iirft 
taking  out  the  Pieces  of  Tin  ;  and  when 
your  Marmalade  is  cool,  cover  your  Glafles 
and  Cups  with  white  Paper. 

Boil'd  Tench.     From  the  fame, 

^TT^AKE  Tench,  frefh  from  the  Pond, 
Jl  gut  them,  and  clear  them  from  their 
Scales.;  then  put  them  into  a  Stew-pan, 
wath  as  much  Water  as  will  cover  them, 
fome  Salt,  fome  whole  Pepper,  fome  Le-^ 
mon-Peel,  a  (lick  of  Horfe-Radifli,  a  bunch 
of  fweet  Herbs,  and  a  few  Cloves  \  thea 
boil  them  till  they  are  tender,  and  when 
they  are  enough,  take  fome  of  the  Liquor, 
and  put  to  it  a  Glafs  of  White  Wine,  and 
a  little  Lemon- Juice,  or  Verjuice,  and  an 
Anchovy  fnred.  Then  boil  it  a  few  Minutes, 
and  thicken  it  with  Butter  rubb'd  in  Flour, 
toiling  up  a  Pint  of  Shrimps  with  the  Sauce, 
and  pour  it  over  the  Fifh.  Serve  it  with  gar- 
nifh  of  fry'd  Bread,  cut  the  length  of  one  s 
Finger,  fome  Slices  of  Lemon  and  Horfe- 
Radilh  fcraped,    with  fome  pickled  Mufh- 

rooms. 


140       "The  Country  Ladys 

rooms>    if  you  will,   or  you  may  tofs  up 
fome  of  them  in  the  Sauce. 

To  bake  Tench.     From  Lady  G. 

TAKE  your  Tench,  frcfh  from  the 
Pond,  gut  them,  and  clean  them  from 
the  Scales  5  then  kill  them,  by  giving  them 
an  hard  ftroke  on  the  back  of  the  Head,  or 
clfe  they  will  live  for  many  Hours,  and 
even  jump  put  of  the  Pan  in  the  Oven,  when 
they  are  half  enough.  Then  lay  them  in  a 
Pan,  with  fome  Mufhroom  Katchep,  fome 
ftrong  Gravey,  half  a  Pint  of  pickled  Mulh- 
rooms,  as  much  White-Wine  as  Gravey, 
three  or  four  large  Shallots,  an  Anchovy 
or  two,  two  or  three  flices  of  fat  Bacon, 
fome  Pepper,  Cloves,  and  Nutmeg,  atplea- 
fure,  a  little  Salt,  fome  Lemon-Peel,  and  a 
bunch  of  fweet  Herbs  5  then  break  fome 
bits  of  Butter,  and  lay  them  on  your  Fift, 
then  cover  all  as  clofe  as  you  can,  and  give 
them  an  Hour's  baking. 

When  they  are  enough,  lay  them  in  a 
hotDifh,  and  pour  off  the  Liquor,  and  drain 
it,  only  preferving  the  Mufhrooms;  then 
add  to  it  a  fpoonful  of  Lemon-Juice,  and 
thicken  your  Sauce  with  the  Yolks  of  four 
Eggs,  beaten  with  Cream,  and  mix'd,  by 
degrees,  with  the  Sauce.  Pour  this  over  your 
Fifh,  and  ferve  it  hot  with  a  Garnifh  of  Beet- 
Roots 


11.      Director*  141 

Roots  fliced,   fome  dices  of  Lemon-Peel, 
and  fome  Horfe-Radifh  fcraped. 

To  Yoaft  a  Weftphalia-Ham.  From  the  fame: 

O I L  a  Weftphalia-Ham,  as  tender  as 
it  will  be,  with  the  Gravey  in  it  5  then 
ftrip  off  the  Skin,  put  it  on  a  Spit,  and  hav- 
ing done  it  over  with  the  Yolk  of  an  Egg^ 
ftixw  it  all  over  with  rafpings  or  chippings 
of  Bread  finely  fifted,  and  mixt  with  a  lit- 
tle Lemon-Peel  grated.  Bafte  it  well  when 
it  is  before  the  Fire,  and  drudge  it  frequent-^ 
ly  with  the  above  Mixture  till  it  is  enough. 
Some,  inftead  of  Roafting  it,  will  prepare 
it,  with  a  good  covering  of  the  afore- 
faid  Mixture,  and  fct  it  an  Hour  in  the 
Oven,  which  anfwers  full  as  well.  Then 
ferve  it,  with  boiled  Pidgeons,  RtiJJia  Cab- 
bages, if  you  can  get  them,  or  Sprouts  of 
Cabbages,  curll'd,  as  big  as  Tennis-Balls^ 
or  Coliyflowers,  or  Brocoli.  This  is  an  ex- 
cellent Difh,  efpecially,  if  the  Cabbages,  or 
Coliyflowers,  are  tofs'd  up  with  Butter 
and  Cream,  but  the  Brocoli  mull  only  have 
the  Butter  pourM  over  them. 

A  Neck  of  Mutton  and  Broth.     From 
L.  P.  Efq-, 

THE   Method  of  this  Broth  was  firfl: 
from   a  miftake,  where  inftead  of 
boiling  a  Neck  of  Mutton,  as  direfted,  the 

Cook 


X 


jr42        ^e  Country  Ladys 

Cook  tdafted  it.    The  Gentleman  was  in  d 
hurry  for  it,  and  caird  in  half  an  Hour  for 
his  Neck  of  Mutton  and  Broth  5  but  the 
Cook  had  only  that  Neck  in  the  Houfe, 
which  ihe  was  roafting,  and  was  then  above 
half  done :  however,  fhe  takes  it  from  the 
Spit,  and  cut  it  in  pieces,    which  Ihe  pre- 
fently  fet  over  the  Fire,  with  the  Gravey 
that  came  from  it,  with  a  fmall  quantity 
of  Water,  and  ferv'd  it  up  with  fome  Tur- 
nips, as  foon  as  poflible.    The  Relifh  which 
the  Meat  had  gaind  by  roafting,  gave  the 
Broth  fo  good  a  flavour,    that  it  is  recom- 
mended fince  that  time,  by  the  Gentlemen 
-who  eat  of  it,  where-ever  they  go  \  but  with 
this  addition,    that  they  take  four  or  five 
Hertfordfl^ire  Turnips,  pare  them,  and  cut 
them  in  dice  5    then  boil  them  in  the  Li- 
quor with  the  half-roafted  Mutton  5    and 
when  they  are  enough,  take  them  out  of  the 
Liquor,   and  draining  them  a  littkj   flour 
them,    and  adding  a  little  Salt,  fry  them 
cither  in  Butter  very  hot,  or  in  Hog's-Lard> 
and  then  ferve  them  with  Pottage. 

Boird  Venifon,  with  its  Furniture.  From 

Mr.  L.  L. 

TAKE   an  Haunch  of  Venifon,    fait 
it  well,  and  let  it  remain  a  Week, 
then  boil  it,   and  ferve  it  with  a  furniture 

of  Collyflowers,   Rtiffla  Cabbages,  fomc 

"    -      •  -  -•      -  ■  '  "of 


Part  IL       Director.  14.J 

of  the  Hertfordfljire  Turnips  cut  in  dice, 
and  boiled  in  a  Net,  and  tofs'd  up  with 
Butter  and  Cream,  or  elfe  have  fome  of 
the  yellow  French  Turnips,  cut  in  dice,  and 
boil'd  like  the  formers  or  we  might  add 
fome  red  Beet-Roots  boiled  in  dice,  and 
butter'd  in  the  fame  manner.  Place  thefe 
•regularly,  and  they  will  afford  a  pleafant 
Variety  both  to  the  Eye  and  the  Tafte. 

Frogs,  a  ivhite  Fricaflee  of  them.    From 
Mr,  Ganeau. 

TAKE  large  Frogs,  and  cut  off  the  hin- 
der Legs,  ftrip  them  of  the  Skin,  and 
cut  off  the  Feet,  and  boil  them  tender  ia 
a  little  Veal-Broth,  with  whole  Pepper,  and 
a  little  Salt,  with  a  bunch  of  fweet  Herbs, 
and  fome  Lemon-Peel.  Stew  thefe  with  a 
Shallot,  till  theFlefh  is  a  little  tender,  thea 
ftrain  off  the  Liquor,  and  thicken  it  with 
Cream  and  Butter  i  then  ferve  them  hot 
with  the  Cream,  and  fome  Mufhrooms  pick- 
led, tofs'd  up  with  the  Sauce,  they  make 
a  very  good  Difh,  and  their  Bones  being  of 
a  very  fine  Texture,  are  better  to  be  eaten 
than  thofe  of  Larks.  But  v/e  have  in  many 
Places  an  Averfion  to  them,  as,  in  fomq 
Others,  fome  People  have  to  Mufhrooms* 

Progs, 


144       ^^  Country  Lddys 

iFrogs>    in  a  brown   Fricaffee.     From  the 

fame. 

PREPARE  the  Frogs  as  before,  and 
flour  them  well  5  then  put  them  into 
a  Pan  of  hot  Lard,  arid  fry  them  brown. 
Then  take  them  and  drain  them  from  the 
Liquor  they  were  fry'd  in,  and  make  a 
Sauce  for  them  of  good  Gr^vey,  fome  Le- 
mon-Peel, a  Shallot  or  two,  fome  Spice 
beaten,  a  bunch  of  fweet  Herbs,  an  An-^ 
chovy,  fome  pickled  Mufhrooms  and  their 
Liquor,  and  fome  Pepper  and  Salt.  Tofs 
up  thefe,  thick  with  Butter,  and  pour  the 
Sauce  over  them,  putting  firfl:  a  little  Claret 
to  it,  and  fome  Lemon-Juice.  Garnifb 
with  broiled  Mufhroom-Flaps,  and  Lemon 
diced. 

Snails,   to  he  drejfed  with  white  Sauce. 
From  the  fame. 

TAKE  the  latge  German  Snail,  early 
in  the  Morning  i  put  them,  fhells 
and  all,  into  Salt  and  Water,  for  a  few 
Hours,  till  they  purge  themfelves :  then  put 
them  into  frefh  Salt  and  Water,  for  a  few 
Hours  more,  and  repeat  that  a  third  time, 
then  give  them  a  gentle  boil  in  Water  and 
Salt,  in  their  Shells,  and  you  may  then  pick 
them  out,  with  a  Pin,  as  you  do  Perwinkles. 
3[ben  ftew  them  in  Veal-Broth,  with  fome 

CloveS| 


Part  11.         Director*  145 

Cloves,  a  little  Sack,  fome  Mace,  and  a 
little  Salt.  Stew  thefe  a  little  while,  and 
then  pour  over  them  this  Sauce  thickened 
with  Cream  and  Butter,  and  grate  fome 
Nutmeg  upon  the  Sauce,  and  ferve  them 
hot. 

Snails,   to  be  dreft  with  brown  Sauce. 
From  the  fame. 

AKE  the  fame  fort  of  Snail,  as  above 
mention^,  and  clean  it  as  before  $ 
then  give  them  one  turn,  when  they  are 
flour'd,  in  fome  hot  Butter,  or  Lard,  and 
drain  them.  Then  pour  into  the  Pan,  when 
the  Liquor  is  out,  fome  ftrong  Gravey,  a 
Glafs  of  Claret,  fome  Nutmeg,  fome  Spices, 
and  a  little  Salt,  with  a  little  Lemon-Peel 
grated  5  and  when  the  Sauce  is  ftrong  e- 
nough,  then  ftrain  the  Sauce,  and  thicken 
it  with  burnt  Butter.  Then  ferve  them  up 
hot,  with  a  Garnifh  of  fliced  Lemon,  and 
fome  Sippits  fry'd  in  Lard. 

A  Gammon  of  a  Badger  roafted.     From 
Mr.  R.  T.  ^ Leicefterfhire. 

"^HE  Badger  is  one  of  the  cleaneit 
Creatures,  in  its  Food,  of  any  in  the 
World^and  one  may  fuppofe  that  the  Flcfh 
of  this  Creature  is  not  unwholefome.  It 
cats  like  the  fineft  Pork,  and  is  much  fweet- 
cr  than  PorJs:.     The.n>    juftwhen  a  Badger 

':  L  is 


146       The  Country  Ladys 

is  killed,  cut  off  the  Gammons,  and  ftrip 
them ;  then  lay  them  in  a  Brine  of  Salt  and 
Water,  that  will  bear  an  Egg,  for  a  Week 
or  ten  Daysj  then  boil  it  for  four  or  five 
Hours,  and  then  road  it,  ftrewing  it  with 
Flour  and  rafped  Bread  fifted.  Then  put 
it  upon  a  Spit,  as  you  did  before  with  the 
TVeffphaliall^im.  Serve  it  hot  with  a  Gar- 
nifli  of  Bacon  fry'd  in  Cutlets,  and  fome 
Lemon  in  flices. 

To  make  minc'd  Tyes,   or  Chrlftmas- jF^/^j. 
From  Mrs.  M.  C. 


'  j  ^AKE  an  Ox-Hearty  and  parboil  it, 
^  or  a  Neat's-Tongue,  boil'd  without 
drying  or  faking,  or  the  Infide  of  a  Surioin 
of  Beef;  chop  this  fmail,  and  put  to  each 
Pound  two  Pounds  of  clean  Beef-Suet,  clean- 
ed of  the  Skins  and  Blood,  and  chop  that  as 
Imall  as  the  former  5  then  pare,  and  take 
the  Gores  out  of  eight  large  Apples,  and 
chop  them  fmall,  grate  then  a  Two-penny- 
Loaf  5  and  then  add  two  or  three  Nutmegs 
grated,  half  an  Ounce  of  frefh  Cloves,  as 
much  Mace,  a  little  Pepper  and  Salt,  and 
a  Pound  and  a  half  of  Sugar  5  then  grate 
in  fome  Lemon  and  Orange-Peel ,  and 
fqueeze  the  juice  of  fix  Oranges,  and  two 
Lemons,  with  half  a  Pint  of  Sack,  and 
pour  this  into  the  Mixture.  Take  care  to 
put  in  two  Pounds  of  Currans   to  every 

Pound 


Part  IL        Director.  147 

Pound  of  Mcar,  and  mix  it  well;  then  try 
a  little  of  it  over  the  Fire,  in  a  Sauce-pan^ 
and  as  it  tades,  fo  add  what  you  think  pro- 
per to  it:  put  this  in  an  earthen  glaz'd 
Pan,  and  prefs  it  down,  and  you  may  keep 
it  till  CandlemaSy  if  you  make  it  at  Chriji^ 
mas. 

Memorandum,  When  you  put  this  into 
your  Pyes,  prcfs  it  down,  and  it  will  be 
like  a  Pafte. 

When  you  take  thefe  Pyes  out  of  the 
Oven,  put  in  a  Glafs  of  Brandy^  or  a  Glafs 
of  Sack  or  White  Wine,  into  them,  and 
ilir  it  in  them. 

Plum-Pottage,  f?r  Chriflmas-Pottage.  From 
the  fame. 

'T^AKE  a  Leg  of  Beef,  and  boil  it  till 
JL  it  is  tender  in  a  fufficient  quantity  of 
Water,  add  two  Quarts  of  red  Wine,  and 
two  Quarts  of  old  ftrong  Beer ;  put  to  thefe 
fomc  Cloves,  Mace,  and  Nutmegs,  enough 
to  feafon  it,  and  boil  fomx  Apples,  pared 
and  freed  from  the  Cores  into  it,  and  boil 
them  tender,  and  break  them ;  and  to  eve- 
ry Qiiart  of  Liquor,  put  half  a  Pound  of 
Currans  pickM  clean,  and  rubb'd  with  a 
coarfe  Cloth,  without  wafhing.  Then  add  a 
Pound  of  Raifins  of  the  Sun,  to  a  Gallon 
of  Liquor;,    and  half  a  Pound  of  Prunes. 

L  2  Take 


148        The  Country  Ladys 

Take  out  the  Beef,  and  the  Broth  or  Pottage 
will  be  fit  for  ufe. 

Amber-Rum,  from  Barbadocs,    an  extra^ 
ordinary  "way  of  making  it,  from  that 

Country. 

^  I  "^  AKE  the  Preparation  of  the  Scum 
JL  ^^^  Dregs  of  the  Sugnr-Canes.  Let 
them  ferment,  and  diftil  them  with  the 
Leaves  of  the  Tlatanus,  or  Plain-Tree; 
then  put  them  into  a  Still  again,  and  hang 
fome  Amber  powderM,  in  a  Muflin  Bag, 
in  the  Cap  of  the  Still,  and  let  all  the  Steam 
pafs  through  that,  and  it  will  be  incompa- 
rable good  Rum. 

A  boiled  Goofe  with  its  Garniture,  From 
the  fame. 

AKE  a  young  fat  Goofe,  and  fait  it, 
^^  and  pepper  it,  for  four  Days  or  a 
Week  i  then  boil  it  as  you  would  do  other 
Viduals,  till  it  is  tender  i  then  take  it  from 
the  Pot,  and  put  about  it  fome  Hertford- 
fbire  Turnips  boiled,  being  firft  cut  in  dice, 
fome  Carrots  boiled,  and  cut  Jn  dice,  fome 
fmall  Cabbage-Sprouts,  fome  red  Beet-Roots 
cut  in  dice,  fome  French  yellow  Turnips 
cut  in  dice,  or  fuch  other  Roots,  or  Herbs, 
as  you  like  bed.  Collyflowers,  if  they  are 
in  feafon,  will  do  well ;  but  they  muft  all 
be  tofs'd  up  with  Cream  and  Butter,  except 

the 


Part  II.       Director.  149 

the   Hertfordjhire  Turnips,  which  fhould;, 

after  they  are  boiled,  be  dry'd  in  a  Cloth, 

,,     and  well  flour'd  5    then    fry  them  in    hot 

I    Lard,  or   hot  Butter,  drain  them  well,  and 

ferve  them  with  the  fame  Sauce. 

Memorandum.,  If  you  have  any  of  the 
yellow  French  Turnips,  cut  them  in  dice 
to  boil,  and  when  they  are  enough,  treat 
them  in  the  fame  manner  as  you  are  di- 
reftcd,  for  the  Hertfordjhire  Turnips.  Take 
care  in  the  buying  of  the  Hertfordjhire 
Turnips,  for  they  are  all  white;  but  they  re- 
quire a  longer  boiUng  than  the  red-ringed 
Turnips:  the  red-rings  are  foft  prefently, 
when  they  are  good,  and  the  others  are 
near  an  Hour  in  boiling,  and,  even  then, 
feel  hard  to  the  Spoon. 

Viper-Soup.     From  Mr,  Ganeau. 

TAKE  Vipers,  alive,  and  skin  them,, 
and  cut  off  their  Heads ;  then  cut 
them  in  pieces,  about  two  Inches  in  length, 
and  boil  them,  with  their  Hearts,  in  about 
a  Gallon  of  Water  to  eight  Vipers,  if  they 
are  pretty  large.  Put  into  the  Liquor  a  lit- 
tle Pepper  and  Salt,  and  a  Quart  of  White 
Wine  to  a  Gallon  of  Liquor  j  then  put  in 
fome  Spice,  to  your  mind,  and  chop  tlie 
following  Herbs,  and  put  into  it :  Take 
fome  Chervil],  fome  white  Beet-Cards  or 
Leaves/ fome  Hearts  of  Cabbage-Lettuce, 

L  3  a 


150        Tloe  Country  Ladys 

a  Shallot,  fome  Spinach-Leaves,  and  Ibme 
Succory.  Boil  thefe,  and  let  them  be  ten- 
der ;  then  ferve  it  up  hot,  with  a  French 
Roll  in  the  middle,  and  garniOi  with  the 
rafpings  of  Bread  lifted,  and  flices  of  Le- 
mon. 

Ketchup,    in  Tafte.     From  Bcncoulin  in 
the  Eaft-Indies. 

"^HERE  is  a  Kidney-Bean,  we  have 
here,  which  has  a  fine  rehfli  in  it, 
as  the  Indians  fay,  but  in  fad  there  is  none 
but  w^hat  they  give  it  by  Art.  This  Bean, 
when  it  is  full  ripe,  is  taken  out  of  the 
Shells,  and  boiled  to  a  Pulp,  and  that  Pulp 
ftrain'd  till  it  becomes  like  Butter  5  then 
they  put  fome  of  all  the  Spices  into  it,  in 
Powder,  as,  Nutmeg,  Cloves,  Mace,  and 
Pepper,  Garlick,  and  Orange-^] nice,  or  fome 
Mango  Pickle.  This  being  well  mix*d  to- 
gether, makes  an  agreeable  Sauce,  when  it 
is  put  in  any  warm  Liquor. 

To  dry  T?lums  zvith  Sugar.     From 
Mr,  Girarde. 

^"T^AKE  large  white  or  red  PJums,  fuch 
^       as   the  white  Holland* s-V\\\m^    the 


Bontim  magnumy  the  Royal  Dolphin  or  Im- 
perial Plum.  Cut  thefe,  and  take  out  the 
Stones,  and  to  every  Pound  of  Plums,  put 
three  quarters  of  a  Pound  of  Sugar :    boil 

your 


Part  11.         Director.  151 

your  SugarxWitha  little  Water,  to  a  candy 
height  i  then  put  in  your  Plums,  and  boil 
them  gently  on  a  flowFirej  then  fet  them 
by  to  cool,  and  then  boil  them  afrefh,  tak- 
ing care  that  they  do  not  break  5  then  let 
them  lie  in  their  Syrup,  three  or  four  Days, 
and  then  lay  them  upon  Sieves,  to  dry,  in 
a  warm  Oven,  turning  them  upon  clean 
Sieves,  twice  a  day,  till  they  are  dry.  Then 
wafh  them  off  the  clamminefs  of  the  Su- 
gar with  warm  Water,  and  dry  them  again 
in  the  Oven  5  and  when  they  are  cold,  put 
them  up  in  Boxes,  with  Papers  between 
them,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  Place. 

To  make  fmall  Almond-Cakes.     From  the 

fame, 

AKE  fome  Orange-Flower- Water, 
or  Rofe- Water,  with  about  two 
Grains  of  Amber-Gris ,  and  beat  thefe 
with  a  Pound  of  blanched  Almonds,  in  a 
Marble  Mortar  j  then  take  a  Pound  of  fine 
Sugar  powdered,  and  finely  iifted,  and  put 
moft  of  it  to  the  Almonds,  when  they  are 
well  beaten,  and  mix  it  well.  Then  make, 
your  Cakes,  and  lay  them  on  Wafers,  and 
fet  them  in  a  gentle  Oven,  on  tin  Plates; 
and  when  they  are  half  baked,  boil  what 
Sugar  you  have  left,  with  fome  Rofe- Wa- 
ter, to  a  candy  height,  and,  with  a  Feather, 
walh  the  Cakes  over  with  this  Liquor,  and 

L  4  clofe 


152      ^e  Country  Ladys 

clofe  your  Oven,  and  let  them  (land  a  few 
Minutes  longer. 

To  preferve  Builace.     From  the  fame. 

AKE  your  Builace  before  the  Froft 
has  taken  them ;  let  them  be  frefh 
gathered,  and  clear  Fruit,  fcald  them  in  Wa- 
ter :  then  take  their  weight  in  fine  Sugar, 
v/ith  a  little  Water,  and  boil  it  to  a  Sy- 
rup 5  then  put  in  your  Builace,  and  boil 
them  till  the  Syrup  is  very  ihick,  and  your 
Fruit  very  clear. 

To  preferve green  Peaches.  From  the  fame. 

IN  fome  Gardens,  where  the  Trees  are 
pruned  and  ordered,  by  a  skilful  hand,, 
it  is  often  that  a  Tree  will  be  fo  full  of 
Fruit,  that  it  is  neceffary  to  take  away  fome, 
when  they  are  green,  that  the  others  may 
fwell  the  better.  As  this  fometimes  happens 
with  Peaches,  fo  I  fhall  here  dired  how  to  pre- 
ferve them.  Scald  vour  c;reen  Peaches  in 
Water,  then,  with  a  Cloth,  rub  the  Down 
from  them  i  then  put  them,  in  more  Wa- 
t^,  over  a  flow  Fire,  and  let  them  (lew  till 
they  are  green,  keeping  them  cover'd.  Then 
take  their  weight  in  fine  Sugar,  and  with 
fome  Water,  boil  it  to  a  Syrup,  taking  off 
the  Scum  as  it  rifes^  then  put  in  your 
Peaches,  and  boil  them  till  they  are  clear, 
and  put  them  up,  with  the  Syrup,  in  Glalfes, 

or 


Part  IL       Director.  153 

or  Gally-pots  5  and  when  they  are  cold,  co- 
ver them  with  Paper.  NotCy  You  muft  ga« 
ther  your  Peaches  before  the  Stone  is  hard 
in  them,  which  you  may  know  by  putting  a 
Pin  through  them. 

To  preferve  Goosberries.     From  the  fame. 

"TT^  H  E  beft  Goosberries,  for  this  Work> 
\  are  the  white  T^utch  Goosberry, 
and  the  Walnut-Goosberry.  Take  thefe, 
juft  when  they  are  beginning  to  turn  ripe, 
pick  off  the  Flower-tuft  at  the  Ends,  and 
ftone  them  $  then  take  to  every  Pound  of 
Eruit,  one  Pound  and  a  quarter  of  fine  Su- 
gar beaten  and  fifted.  Boil  the  Sugar  with 
a  little  Water  to  a  Syrup,  taking  off  the 
Scum  as  it  rifes  5  then  put  in  your  Fruit, 
and  boil  them  quick  till  they  are  clear,  and 
put  them  in  Glaffes,  boiling  the  Syrup  a 
little  more  5  then  pour  it  upon  them,  and 
when  it  is  cold,  cover  your  Glaffes  clofe 
with  Paper. 

To  candy  Eringo-Roots.    From  Mr,  Luf  kin 
of  Colchefter. 

TAKE  the  faireft  Roots  of  Eringo, 
frefh  taken  out  of  the  Ground,  wafli 
them  clean,  and  boil  them  in  feveral  Wa- 
ters till  they  are  very  tender :  wafh  them 
again,  and  rub  them  with  a  Cloth,  to  dry- 
as  much  as  they  will  bear,  without  break- 
ing* 


154       ^^  Country  Ladys 

ing,  or  bruifing  y  flit  them,  and  take  out 
the  Pith,  and  twift  two  together,  like  a 
Screw.  Then  take  to  every  Pound  of  Root 
two  Pounds  of  fine  Sugar  powder'd,  of 
which  Sugar  take  one  Pound  at  firfl,  and 
boil  it  with  fome  Rofe  Water,  to  a  Syrup ; 
and  then  put  in  your  Roots,  and  boil  them 
till  they  are  clear;  then  wet  the  refl  of 
your  Sugar  with  Rofe- Water,  and  boil  it 
to  a  candy  Height ;  then  put  in  the  Roots, 
and  let  them  boil,  fhaking  them  often  over 
the  Fire,  and  when  you  think  they  are  e- 
nough,  take  them  from  the  Fire,  and  fhake 
them  till  they  are  cold,  and  almofl  dry ;  then 
lay  them  upon  Difhes  to  dry  thoroughly, 
and  when  they  are  done,  put  them  up  in 
Boxes  with  white  Paper,  under  and  over 
them,  then  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 

To  preferve  Grapes  in  Syrup.      From  the 

fame, 

TH  E  befl  Grapes  for  this  ufe,  are  thofc 
of  the  Fronteniac  Kind,  of  which 
there  are  the  white  and  the  blue,  and  the 
red,  which  feldom  come  to  ripen  in  Eng- 
landy  with  their  pure  flavour.  But  as  Heat 
is  the  occafion  of  ripening,  fo,  though  they 
want  it  with  us,  from  the  Sun,  we  may 
make  good  that  deficiency  by  Fire,  which 
will  anfwcr  the  end  fully,  and  bring  them 
tothchigheft  perfedion  of  Tafte  5  therefore 

the 


part  IL        Director.  155 

the  Swect-mcat  made  of  thefe  is  excellent ; 
befides  thefe  Grapes  for  preferving,  the  St. 
Teter  and  the  Warner  Grapes  are  very 
good,  and  I  may  mention  the  grizled  Fron- 
teniac,  which  is  a  noble  Grape,  when  it  is 
ripe,  as  well  as  the  others.  And  for  the 
other  Sorts  of  Grapes,  they  are  not  fit  for 
preferving,  unlefs  I  take  in  the  Raifin 
Grapes,  red  and  white,  and  xhc  Lombardy 
Grapes  all  which  are  full  of  Pulp,  andfel- 
dom  ripen.  Thefe  are  your  forts,  and  now 
to  proceed. 

Take  your  Crapes,  gather'd  in  a  dry  Day, 
though  they  are  not  ripe.  You  may  guefs 
when  we  come  to  the  end  of  September^ 
and  they  are  not  fo,  they  never  will  be 
ripe  :  pick  them  then  from  the  Stalks,  and 
ftone  them  carefully,  without  breaking 
much  of  the  Skin,  fave  the  Juice  i  then 
take  the  weight  of  them  in  fine  Sugar 
powder 'd,  and  boil  your  Sugar  with  fome 
Water,  wherein  Pippins  have  been  boiled 
before,  firft  flraining  your  Water,  and  boil 
them  to  Syrup,  taking  off  the  Scum  as  it 
rifes.  And  when  the  Scum  rifes  no  more, 
put  in  your  Grapes,  and  boil  them  quick 
till  they  are  as  clear  as  Gryftal,  1  mean  the 
white  Grapes  5  but  the  red  Sorts,  let  them 
boil  till  they  are  clear,  and  that  the  Syrup 
will  jelly  i  then  put  them  into  Glafles,  and 
when  they  are  cold,  cover  them  clofe  with 

white 


156        T^e  Country  Ladys 

white  Paper  5  but  mark  your  Papers,  which 
are  of  the  Fronteniac  Kinds,  for  they  will 
have  a  very  different  Flavour  from  the  other 
Sorts,  an  high  richnefs  that  is  much  admi- 
red. However,  though  the  other  Kinds  of 
Grapes,  mention  d  in  this  Receipt,  may  want 
a  flavour  by  thcmfelves,  you  may  add  fo me 
Orange-Flower- Water  to  the  Syrup,  you 
make  for  them,  which  will  give  them  a 
fine  tafte. 

K.B.  Take  care  that  when  you  make 
this  Preferve,  you  ufe  only  one  fort  at 
one  time* 

To  drefs  a  Calf 's  Head  in  a  grand  ©//&. 
From  Mrs.  E.  Sympfon. 

■^AKE  a  large  Calf's-Head,  and  di- 
vide it,  cut  off  the  Muzzle,  and  wafh 
it  well  5  then  take  the  Brains,  and  wafh 
them,  and  dry  them,  and  flour  them,  and 
put  them  in  a  Cloth,  and  tye  them  up.. 
Boil  thefe  till  they  are  half  done  ;  then 
take  them  from  the  Kettle,  and  cut  the 
Flefh  off  one  fide  of  the  Head,  in  fliccs,  like 
harfh'd  Meat,  and  the  other  fide  of  the  Head 
muft  remain  whole,  and  mark'd  only  with 
a  fharp  Knife,  crofs-ways.  The  Brains  muft 
lie  till  the  refl:  are  prepared. 

Take  then  the  harfh'd  part,  and  with 
fome  of  the  Liquor  it  was  boif  d  in,  put 
a  Glafs  of  White  Wine,  a  little  Mufliroom 

Ketchup, 


Part  IL        Director.  ,  157 

Ketchup,  a  little  Nutmeg  grated,  and  a 
little  Mace  beat  fine,  fame  P^jp^er  and 
Salt,  fome  grated  Lemon-Peel,  and  flew 
them  together  with  a  bunch  of  fweet  Herbs, 
and  fome  Butter.  When  it  is  enough,  put 
in  a  little  Juice  of  Lemon,  and  thicken  it 
with  Cream  and  Butter,  in  fome  of  the 
fame  Liquor,  with  the  Liquor  of  Oyfters 
parboird,  a  Pint  of  Oyfters,  and  as  many 
pickled  Mufhrooms,  which  muft  be  tofs'd 
up  with  your  Sauce,  when  you  thicken  it, 
remembring  to  cut  the  Eye  in  pieces,  a- 
mongft  the  Harfh. 

Then  for  the  other  fide  of  the  Head, 
when  you  have  cut  the  Flefh  crofs-ways,  in 
Diamonds,  about  an  Inch  over,  beat  the 
Yolks  of  two  or  three  Eggs,  and  with  a 
Feather  paftover  it,  cover  it  with  the  Yolks 
of  Eggs,  and  then  drudge  upon  it  the  fol- 
lowing Mixture. 

Take  fome  Rafpings  of  Bread  fifted,  put 
to  them  fome  Flour,  a  little  Pepper  and 
Salt,  with  fome  Mace  and  Nutmeg,  in  pow^- 
der,  and  a  little  fweet  Marjoram  powder'd, 
or  ITired  fmall.  Mix  thefe  well  together  s 
then  fet  it  in  an  Oven,  with  fome  bits  of 
Butter  upon  it,  till  it  is  enough,  or  before 
a  brisk  Fire,  till  the  drudging  is  brown  : 
this  muft  be  laid  in  the  middle  of  the  Difli, 
and  the  Harfh  round  it.  The  Brains  muft  be 
cut  in  pieces,  and  ftrew'd  with  a  little  red 

Sage 


158        The  Country  Ladys 

Sage  cut  very  fmall,  and  a  little  Spice  and 
Salt ;  and  then  every  piece,  dip'd  in  a  thick 
Batter,  made  of  Eggs,  Flour ,  and  Milk. 
Fry  thefe  well  in  hot  HogVLard,  or  for  want 
of  that,  in  hot  melted  Beef- Suet ;  then  take 
Oyfters,  a  little  ftew'd  in  their  own  Liquor, 
with  Mace,  and  a  little  whole  Pepper  5  take 
off  their  Fins,  and  dip  them  in  the  fame 
Batter,  and  fry  theni  as  direded  above  for 
the  Brains.  There  muft  be  likewife  fome 
Pieces  of  Bread  cut  the  length  of  one's 
Finger,  and  fry'd  crifp  5  all  thefe  are  by  way 
of  Garnifh.  One  may  likewife  boil  fome 
Skirret- Roots,  and  peel  them,  and  then  dip 
them  in  the  Batter,  and  fry  them  crifp.  As 
for  the  other  part  of  the  Garnifh,  it  muft  be 
red  Beets  pickled  and  fliced,  and  Lemon 
fliced. 

Calfs-Head-?*/^.     From  the  fame. 

"^AKE  a  lar2;e  CalfVHead,  divide  it, 

and  when  it  is  well  cleaned,  boil  it 

half  enough;  then  cut  it  in  large  dices,  and 
flit  the  Eyes,  feafon  it  with  Nutmeg,  Pep- 
per, Salt,  and  fome  powder  of  dry 'd  fweet 
Herbs ;  then  lay  it  in  your  Pafte,  with  fome 
Pepper  and  Salt,  at  the  Bottom,  with  feme 
bits  of  Butter  i  then  put  in  the  Yolks  of 
twelve  hard  E£^2:s,  and  a  farced  Meat  made 
in  the  following  manner.     Take  fome  Lean 

of 


Part  IL       Director.  159 

of  Veal,  fhred  it  very  fmall,  then  take  fome 
Eggs  butter'd,  and  a  little  Pepper  and  Salt, 
with  other  Spice  beaten,  and  feme  fweet 
Herbs  in  powder.  Mix  this  with  the  Yolk 
or  two  of  raw  Eggs  beaten,  and  make  it 
into  a  Pafte.  Then  roll  it  into  Balls,  and 
lay  a  good  number  of  them  into  the  Pye, 
amongft  the  Meat  5  and,  if  you  will,  put 
in  half  a  Pound  of  Currans  well  picked, 
and  only  rubb'd  in  a  Cloth,  without  wafli- 
ing.  Then  clofe  your  Pye,  and  jufl:  before 
it  goes  to  the  Oven,  pour  in  a  Gill  of 
White  Wine,  and  half  a  Pint  of  Water ; 
bake  it  and  ferve  it  hot,  and  you  may  add, 
if  you  will,   the  following  Liquor,  viz. 

Take  half  a  Pint  of  White  Wine,  and 
as  much  Water,  with  the  Juice  of  a  Lenion» 
Boil  thefe  together  a  Minute  or  two,  then 
take  the  Yolks  of  four  Eggs,  and  beat  them 
well,  a  quarter  of  a  Pound  of  Butter,  and 
as  much  Sugar  as  you  like  to  make  it  pa- 
latable. Then  mix  them  well  together,  tak- 
ing care  that  it  does  not  curdle,  and  pour 
it  into  your  Pye  juft  before  you  ferve  it. 

NotCy  One  may  put  into  this  Pye,  Cock's- 
Combs  blanched,  and  fome  Citron  or  Le- 
mon-Peel candy'd,  if  youdefign  it  for  a  fweet 
Pycj  but  it  is  very  good,  whether  we  make 
it  a  fweet  Pye  or  nor. 


To 


i6o        The  Country  Ladys 

To  bake  a  Calf 's-Hcad.     From  the  fame. 

•^ipAKE  a  Calfs-Head,  wafh  it  clean, 
J[  and  divide  it  5  then  beat  the  Yolks 
of  four  or  five  Eggs,  and  beat  them  well, 
and  with  a  Feather,  trace  that  Liquor  over 
the  out- fide  of  the  Head,  and  ftrew  over 
it  fome  rafpings  of  Bread  lifted,  fome  Flour, 
fome  Pepper  and  Salt,  fome  Mace  and  Nut- 
meg povvder'd,  with  fome  fweet  Herbs  pow- 
derd,  with  a  little  Sage  fhred  fmall,  and 
the  Brains  cut  in  pieces,  and  dip'd  in  thick 
Batter;  then  coyer  the  Head  with  fome 
bits  of  Butter,  and  pour  in  the  Pan  fome 
Whice-Wine  and  Water,  with  as  much 
Gravey,  and  cover  it  clofe.  Then  bake  it 
in  a  quick  Oven,  and  when  you  ferve  it, 
pour  on  fome  ftrong  Gravey,  and  garnifh 
with  Lemon  fliced,  red  Beet-Root  pickled 
and  diced,  and  fome  fry'd  Oyfters,  and  fry'd 
Bread. 

To  make  Spirit  of  Lilley  of  the  Valley. 
From  Norway.  N.  B.  This  ferves  in 
the  room  of  Orange-Flower-Watcr,  in 
TuddingSy  and  to  perfume  Cakes ;  though 
it  is  drank  as  a  T>ram  in  Norway. 

ATHER  your  Lilley-of-the-Valley 
Flowers,  when  they  are  dry ,  and 
pick  them  from  the  Stalks;  then  put  a 
Quarter  of  a  Pint  of  them  into  a  Quart  of 

Brandy, 


Part  II.       DiRECTOK. 


i6i 


Brandy,  and  fo  in  proportion,  to  infufe  fix  or 
eight  Days  5  thendiftilit  in  a  cold  Still,  mark- 
ing the  Bottles,  as  they  are  drawn  off,  which 
is  firft,  fecond  and  third,  &c.  When  you 
have  diftiird  them,  take  the  firft,  and  fo 
on  to  the  third  or  fourth,  and  mix  them 
together,  till  yon  have  as  ftrong  as  you  de- 
fire  5  and  then  bottle  them,  and  cork  them 
well,  putting  a  lump  of  Loaf-Sugar  into 
each  Bottle. 

Things  to  be  provided^  when  any  great 
Family  is  going  into  the  Country,  for  a 
Summer,     From  Mr,  R.  S. 


XI 

'UTMEGS. 

Lemons. 

IN 

Mace. 

Anchovies. 

Cinnamon. 

Olives. 

Cloves. 

Capers. 

Pepper. 

Oil  for  Salads.^ 

Ginger. 

Vinegar. 

Jamaica-Vz^^ct. 

Verjuice. 

Raifins. 

Tea. 

Cutrans. 

Coffee. 

Sugar  Lisbon. 

Chocolate. 

Sugar- Loaf  Lump. 

Almonds. 

Sugar  double-refin'd. 

Chefnuts. 

Prunes. 

French  Pears. 

Oran 

ges. 

Sir,  I  fend  you  this  as  a  Memorandum^ 
becaufe  when  fome  People  go   into  the 

M  Country, 


1 62       The  Country  Ladys 

Country,  many  of  thefe  Things  may  be 
forgot,  and  it  is  fomctimes  the  Cafe,  that 
one  muft  fend  a  Mile  or  two  for  what 
is  wanted  of  them. 

/  am  Touts  J 

R.  S. 
To  fait  a  Ham  in  imitation  of  Weftphalia, 

TAKE  an  Ham  of  young  Pork,  and 
Iprinkle  it  with  Salt  for  one  Day, 
that  the  Blood  may  come  out  5  then  wipe 
it  dry,  and  rub  it  with  the  following  Mix- 
ture. 

Take  a  Pound  of  brown  Sugar,  a  quar- 
ter of  a  Pound  of  Salt-Petre,  half  a  Pint 
of  Bay-Salt,  and  three  Pints  of  common 
Salt.  Mix  all  thefe  together,  and  ftir  them 
in  an  Iron-Pan,  over  the  Pire,  till  they  are 
J)retty  hot,  and  then  rub  your  Ham  with 
it.  Turn  your  Ham  often,  and  let  it  lie 
three  Weeks  5  then  dry  it  in  a  Chimney 
with  Deal  Saw-Duft. 

To  make  artificial  Anchovies.     From  Mr, 
James  Randolph  of  Richmond. 

ABOUT  February  you  will  find,  in 
the  River  of  Thames y  a  large  quan- 
tity of  Bleak,  or  in  Augufl  a  much  larger 
parcel  in  Shoals.  Thefe  Fifh  are  fofr,  ten- 
der, and  oily,  and  much  better  than  Sprats 

to 


Part  11.         Director.  163 

to  make  any  imitation  of  Anchovies  from. 
Take  thefe,  and  clean  them,  and  cut  off 
their  Heads,  and  lay  them  in  an  earthen 
glazed  Pan,  with  a  Layer  of  Bay-Salt  un- 
der them,  and  anotlier  over,  a  finale  Row 
of  thenij  then  lay  a  frefh  row  of  Fifh,  and 
Bay-Salt  over  that 5  and  fo  continue  the 
fame  Stratum  fnper  StratuWy  till  the  Veffel 
is  full,  and  in  a  Month  you  may  ufe  them, 
and  afterwards  put  Vinegar  to  them.  But 
they  will  be  like  Anchovies  without  Vine- 
gar, only  the  Vinegar  will  keep  •  them. 
Turn  them  often  the  firft  Fortnight, 

Apple-Dumplings  in  an  extraordinary  way. 

From  Mrs,  Johnfon,  ^. 

TA  K  EGolden-Rennets  ripe,  pare  them, 
and  take  out  their  Cores  $  then  cut 
the  Apples  into   fmall  pieces,    and  with 
€  large  Grater,  grate  in  a  Quince,  when  it 
has  been  pared  and  cored :  for  if  you  was 
to  flice  in  a  Quince,  to  your  Apples,    in 
large  pieces,  the  Quince  would  not  be  boil'd 
equally  with  the  Apples  j  for  the  Quince  is 
of  a  tough  Nature,   and  will  not  boil  un- 
der twice  the  time  that  the  Apples  will : 
therefore  to  grate  them,  will  be  enough  to 
give  their  flavour  to  the  Apple,  and  make 
all  enough  at  one  time.     Put  what  Sugar 
you  think  proper  into  each  Dumpling,  whea 
you  take  it  up,  and  the  neceifary  quantity 

M  z  of 


164        ^^  Country  Ladys 

of  Butter.     It  will  then  eat  like  a  Marma- 
lade cf  Qiiince. 

Note,  The  Cruft,  or  Pafte,  for  thefe 
Dumplings,  muft  be  of  a  PulF-Pafte  made 
with  Butter,  rubb'd  into  Flour,  and  for  fome 
other  Parts  of  the  Butter,  break  them  into 
the  Pafte,  and  roll  them  three  times,  and 
put  in  the  Apples  to  the  Cruft,  tying  them 
into  a  Cloth  well  flour'd,  and  boiling  them. 
It  may  be  underftood  before,  that  when 
they  are  taken  up  hot,  the  Ceremony  of 
fugaring  and  buttering  is  ncceffary. 

Apple-Dumplings  made  with  Sweet-meats, 
From  the  fame, 

TAKE  fair  Apples  ripe,  pare  them, 
and  take  out  the  Cores  ;  then  flice 
them  thin,  and  with  a  large  Grater,  grate 
in  fome  candy'd  Orange  or  Lemon-Peels, 
and  you  may  put  in  alfo  fome  powder'd 
Clove  or  Cinnamon,  and  a  little  grated 
Quince,  or  Quince  Marmalade.  Put  thefe 
together,  the  Apples  being  firft  cut  in  fmall 
pieces,  into  a  PuiF-Pafte,  and  tye  it  up  in 
a  Cloth.  Thefe  mufl:  be  fweeten'd  with 
'Ijisi?on-Sugzry  when  they  arc  taken  up>  and 
melted  Butter  pour'd  in:  for  if  you  ufc  Loaf- 
Sugar,  though  it  is  powder'd,  fome  of  it 
will  be  harfii  in  the  Mouth ;  and  the  Lif- 
^^«-Sugar,  which  is  the  fatteft  fort  of  Su- 
gar, 
1 


Part  IL         Director*  165 

gar,  will  not,  but  will  give  a  good  flavour 
to  your  Fruit. 

An  Hog  barbecued,  or  broil' d  whole.   From 
Vaux-Hall,  Surrey. 

^  I  ^AKE  an  Hog  of  five  or  fix  Months 
JL  old,  kill  it,  and  take  out  the  Inwards, 
fo  that  the  Hog  is  clear  of  the  Harflet; 
then  turn  the  Hog  upon  its  Back,  and  from 
three  Inches  below  the  place  where  it  was 
ftuck,  to  kill  it,  cut  the  Belly  in  a  ftrait 
Line  down  to  the  Bottom,  near  the  join- 
ing of  the  Gammons;  but  not  fo  far,  but 
that  the  whole  Body  of  the  Hog  may  hold 
any  Liquor  we  would  put  into  it. 

Then  ftretch  out  the  Ribs,  and  open  the 
Belfy,  as  wide  as  may  be;  then  ftrew  into 
it  what  Pepper  and  Salt  you  pleafe. 

After  this,  take  a  large  Grid-Iron,  with 
two  or  three  Ribs  in  it,  and  fct  it  upon  a 
ffand  of  Iron,  about  three  Foot  and  a  half 
high,  and  upon  that,  lay  your  Hog,  opcn'd 
as  above,  with  the  Belly-iide  downwards, 
and  with  a  good  clear  Fire  of  Charcoal  un- 
der it.  Broil  that  fide  till  it  is  enough, 
flouring  the  Back  at  the  fame  time  often. 
Memorandum,  This  fhould  be  done  in  a 
Yard,  or  Garden,  with  a  Covering  like  a 
a  Tent  over  it. 

When  the  Belly-part  of  the  Hog  is  e- 
nough,  and  turn  d  upwards,  and  well  fix'd^^ 

M  3  to 


1 66       Hoe  Country  Ladys 

to  be  fteady  upon  the  Grid-Iron,  or  Barba- 
cue,  pour  into  the  Belly  of  the  Hog,  three 
or  four  Quarts  of  Water,  and  half  as  much 
White- Wine,  and  as  much  Salt  as  you  will, 
with  fome  Sage  cut  fmall  j  adding  the 
Peels  of  fix  or  eight  Lemons,  and  an  Ounce 
of  frefli  Cloves  whole. 

Then  let  it  broil  till  it  is  enough,  w^hich 
will  be,  from  the  beginning  to  the  end,  a- 
bout  feven  or  eight  Hours ;  and  when  you 
ferve  it,  pour  out  the  Sauce,  and  lay  it  in 
a  Difh,  with  the  Back  upwards.  Memo- 
randumy  The  Skin  muft  not  be  cut  before 
you  lay  it  on  the  Gridiron,  to  keep  in  the 
Gravey  ;  neither  fhould  any  of  the  Skin  be 
cut,  when  you  have  any  Pork  roafted  for 
the  fame  Reafon. 

Beef,  or  Pork,  to  be  falted for  boiling  im- 
mediately,  from  the  Shambles.  From 
Mr,  J.  P.  Ckymifi. 

'TPAKE  any  piece  of  Beef  you  defire 
JL  to  boil,  or  Pork  for  the  fame,  dref- 
fmg  it  frefh  from  the  Shambles,  or  Market, 
and  fait  it  very  well,  juft  before  you  put 
it  into  the  Pot  i  then  as  foon  as  your  Meat 
is  falted,  take  a  coarfe  Linnen  Cloth,  and 
flour  it  very  well,  and  then  put  the  Meat 
into  it,  and  tye  it  up  clofe.  Put  this  into 
a  Kettle  of  boiling  Water,  and  boil  it  as 
long  as  you  would  any  fait  piece  of  Beef 
■^-  of 


Part  11.       Director.  167 

of  the  fame  bignefs,  and  it  will  come  out 
as  fait  as  a  piece  of  Meat,  that  had  been 
falted  four  or  five  Days :  but  by  this  way  of 
falting,  one  ought  not  to  have  pieces  of  a- 
bove  five  or  fix  Pounds  weight.  N,B.  If 
to  half  a  Pound  of  common  Salt  you  put 
an  Ounce  of  Nitre,  or  Salt-Petre,  it  will 
ftrike  a  rednefs  into  the  Beef,  but  the  Salt- 
Petre  muft  be  beat  fine,  and  w^ell  niix'd  with 
the  common  Salt, 

Votztoz-Tuddings,  made  with  Sweet-meats. 
From  Mr.  Moring,  Temple-Bar. 

TAKE  fome  clean  Potatoes,  boil  them 
tender,  and  when  they  are  fo,  and 
clean  from  their  Skins,  break  them  in  a  Mar- 
ble Mortar,  till  they  become  a  Pulp  ;  then 
put  to  them,  or  you  might  beat  with  them 
fome  llices  of  candy'd  Lemons  and  Oranges, 
and  beat  thefe  together  with  fome  Spices, 
and  Lemon-Peel  candy'd.  Put  to  thefe 
fome  Marrow,  and  as  much  Sugar,  with 
Orange-Flower- Water,  as  you  think  fit. 
Mix  all  together,  and  then  take  fome  whole 
candy'd  Orange-Peels,  and  fluff  them  full 
of  the  Meat,  and  fet  them  upon  a  Dilh,  in 
a  gentle  Oven  5  and  when  they  have  flood 
half  an  hour,  ferve  them  hot,  with  a  Sauce 
of  Sack  and  Butter,  and  fine  Sugar  grated 
over  them. 

M  4  Potatoe: 


1 68        I'he  Country  Ladys 

Vot2iX.ot'T udding  baked.    From  Mr.  Shep- 
herd of  Wmdmill- Street. 

OIL  fome  fair  Potatoes  till  they  are 
tender  5  then,  when  they  are  made 
clean,  bruife  them  in  a  Marble  Mortar, 
till  they  become  a  Pafte,  with  fome  Mace 
powder'd,  fome  Sugar,  and  the  Pulp  of 
Oranges,  with  a  Naples  Bifcuit  or  two 
grated  in,  and  a  large  Carrot  grated.  Add  to 
thefe  fome  Orange-Flower- Water  ;  and 
when  all  thefe  are  well  mix'd,  put  to  them 
fome  butter'd  Eggs,  with  fome  flices  of  , 
Butter  laid  upon  your  Pudding,  when  it  is  I 
put  into  the  Difh,  or  Pan.  A  little  baking 
will  ferve  for  it;  and  when  it  is  enough, 
ferveit  hot,  with  a  garniih  of  fliced  Lemon 
or  Orange.  Some  will  put  this  into  a  Paftc, 
but  not  cover  it. 

To  make   Whipt  Syllabubs.      From  Mrs. 
Cater  of  Salisbury. 

O  a  Pint  of  Cream  put  a  Gill  of 
Canary-Wine,  and  two  Ounces  of 
Loaf-Sugar  finely  beat,  and  a  flice  or  two 
of  Lemon;  then  with  a  clean  Whisk,  whip 
it  together,  adding  a  little  Milk,  as  it  grows 
thick  :  then  have  your  Glaffes  clean,  and 
put  into  each  of  them  three  or  four  fpoon- 
fuls  of  any  forts  of  Wine,  red  in  fome, 
and  white  in  others,   fwectcn'd  with  fine 

Sugar 


Part  IL        Director.  169 

Sugar  powdered  5  then  fill  your  Glaffes  with 
the  Froth  of  your  Cream,  as  it  is  whipt  up. 

Of  the  fashionable  Tables y  for  Terfons  of 
Rank:,  or  Figure-,  where  five  *Difhes 
are  ferv'dat  a  Courfe.    From  S.  G.  Efq^ 

•^•^HE  Tables  I  fhall  fpeak  of,    are  fo 
JL      ordered,  as  to   fave  a  great  deal  of 
trouble  to  the  Miftrefs  of  the  Family,    as 
well  as  to  the  Guefts  5  for  with  this  Table 
every  one  helps  himfelf,    by  turning  any 
Difh  he  likes  before  him,  without  inter- 
rupting any  body.     You  muft  have  firft,  a 
]ar2;e  Table  with  an  hole  in  the  Middle,  of 
an  Inch  Diameter,  wherein  fhould  be  fix'd 
a  Socket  of  Brafs  well  turn'd,  to  admit  of 
a  Spindle  of  Brafs,  that  will  turn  eafily  in 
it.     The  Table  I  fpeak  of,  may  be,    I  fup- 
pofe,  five  or  fix  Foot  diameter  5    and  then 
have   another  Table-board   made    juft   fo 
large,  that  as  it  is  to  ad  on  the  Centre  of 
the  firft  Table,    there  may  be  near  a  foot 
vacancy  for  Plates,  &c.  on  every  fide.  Then 
fix  the   Spindle  of  Brafs  in  the  Centre  of 
the  fmaller  Table,  which  Spindle  muft  be 
fo  long,    as,  that  when  one  puts  it  in  the 
Socket  of  the  great  Table-board,  the  fmaller 
turning  Table  may   be  about  four  Inches 
above  the  lower  Board  5  fo,  that  in  its  turn- 
ing about,  no  Salt,  or  Bread,  or  any  thing 
on  the  Plates,    may.be  difturb'd.     Thefe 

Tables 


170       T^e  Country  Ladys 

Tables  have  Cloths  made  to  each  of  them  ; 
the  upper,  or  fmaller  Table,  to  have  an 
whole  Cloth  to  cover  it  tight,  and  faften'd 
clofe,fothat  none  of  the  Borders  hang  down; 
and  the  Cloth  for  the  under  Table,  or  great 
Table,  muft  have  an  hole  cut  in  the  middle 
of  it  for  the  Spindle  of  the  upper  Table  to 
pafs  thro'  into  the  Brafs  Socket :  and  when 
this  is  rightly  orderM,  and  every  neceflary 
Furniture  of  the  great,  or  lower  Table,  fet 
by  every  Plate;  then  the  upper  Table,  which 
will  turn,  may  be  furnilh'd  with  Meats.  It 
remains  only  then,  in  fome  Places,  for  the 
Lady  of  the  Houfe,  to  offer  the  Soup  ;  but 
after  that,  every  one  is  at  liberty  to  help 
themfelves,  by  turning  the  upper  Table 
about^to  bring  what  they  like,  before  them. 

I  am  Toursy  S.  G. 


T^he  Manner  of  killing  and  faking  Oxen, 
in  the  hotteji  Months,  for  the  Sea,  that 
the  Beef  may  keep  good.  From  a  Con- 
tra£ior  with  the  CommiJJioners  of  the 
Royal-Navy. 

Sir, 

I  have  often  read  your  Books,  and  parti- 
cularly your  Ladys  Monthly  "DireBor^ 
relating  to  the  Management  of  the  feveral 

Products 


Part  IL       Director.  1:71 

Produfts  of  a  Farm,  but  you  have  not  taken 
notice  of  the  Prefervation  of  Flelh,  as  I 
expefted. 

I  fend  this  therefore,  to  inform  you,  that 
upon  the  fetting  out  of  a  Fleet  in  JunCy 
it  was  thought  difficult  to  fait  the  Beef;  but 
it  was  done,  to  full  Satisfadlion,  by  the  fol- 
lowing Method. 

We  killed  an  hundred  Oxen,  in  Juney  to- 
wards the  Clofe  of  the  Evening,  and  let  them 
hang  up  whole,  till  the  next  Evening  :  then, 
when  the  Cool  comes  on,  cut  outtheMefles, 
and  by  every  Stand  have  a  Punchin  of  Brine, 
and  throw  them  into  it  as  foon  as  they  arc 
cut,  and  in  about  three  Minutes  after  that, 
take  them  out,  and  fair  them  well.  Notey 
Thefe  Pieces  will  by  thefe  means  lofe  their 
bloody  Parts,  in  great  meafure,  and  be  ca- 
pacitated to  receive  the  Salt  much  better 
than  otherways,  and  then  put  them  up.  Me- 
morandum ^  We  had  not,  out  of  all  this 
quantity,  above  three  Pieces  fail'd,  though 
the  Weather  was  extreme  hot. 

Chefhire-P/^  with  Pork.    From  Mr.  R.  J. 

TAKE  fome  fait  Loin  of  Pork,  or  Leg 
of  Pork,  and  cut  it  into  Pieces,  like 
Dice,  or  as  you  would  do  for  an  Harfh. 
If  it  be  boiled  or  roafted,  it  is  no  matter  5 
then  take  an  equal  quantity  of  Potatoes, 
and  pare  them;,  and  cut  them  into  dice,  or 

in 


172        The  Country  Ladys 

in  flices.  Make  your  Pye-Cruft,  and  lay  fome 
Butter,  ill  pieces,  at  the  bottom,  with  fome 
Pepper  and  Salt  5  then  put  in  your  Meat 
and  Potatoes,  with  fuch  feafoning  as  you 
like,  but  Pepper  and  Salt  commonly,  and 
on  the  Top  fome  pieces  of  Butter.  Then 
clofe  your  Pye,  and  bake  it  in  a  gentle 
Oven,  putting  in  about  a  Pint  of  Water, 
juft  before  it  is  going  into  the  Oven;  for 
if  you  put  in  your  Water  over  Night,  it 
will  fpoil  your  Pye. 

To  bake  Herrings  in  an  extraordinary  ^nan- 
ner.     From  Mrs,  M.  N.  of  Shrewsbury. 

AKE  frefh  Herrings,  and  when  they 
are  fcaled  and  cleaned,  put  them  in  a 
glazed  earthen  Veffel,  where  they  can  lie 
ftraight ,  then  put  in  as  much  of  the  fol- 
lowing Liquor  as  will  cover  them,  viz. 
an  equal  quantity  of  fine  pale  and  old  ftrong 
Beer,  with  Vinegar,  which  is  the  beft,  or 
elfe  all  Vinegar,  or  as  fome  do,  put  two 
parts  of  Vinegar  and  one  of  Water  5  any 
of  thefe  will  do  well.  Then  put  in  fome 
Bay-Salt,  fuch  a  quantity  as  you  think  will 
feafon  it  to  your  mind,  and  to  that  a  tenth 
part  of  Salt-Petre,  which  will  not  make  it 
fait,  but  give  it  a  fine  relifh  :  to  thefe  put 
two  or  three  Bay-Leaves,  a  bunch  of  fweet 
Herbs,  fome  Cloves,  or  Jamaica  Pepper, 
and  fome  whole  Pepper  i  then  cover  your 

Pan, 


Part  II.       Director.  173 

I  Pan,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  Oven,  with 
Bread.  Thefe  muft  be  eaten  cold ;  they  are 
excellent  for  a  Country  Breakfaft,  efpecial- 
ly,  if  they  are  warm  of  the  Spice,  and  if 
they  are  well  done,  the  very  Bones  will 
diffolve. 

To  draw   Gravey  for  a  private  Family. 
Frcm  the  fame. 

"^  AK  E  fome  flefhy  part  of  Beef,,  with- 
out Fat,  and  cut  it  in  pieces  about 
the  bignefs  of  Pidgeons  Eggs  5  then  flour 
it  well^  and  put  it  in  a  Sauce-Pan,  with  a 
little  frefh  Lard,  or  a  little  Butter,  a  lit- 
tle Onion  fliced,  fome  Powder  of  fweet 
Marjoram,  and  a  little  Pepper.  Cover  all 
clofe,  and  ftir  it  now  and  then  till  the  Gra- 
vey is  come  out  enough,  and  then  pour  on 
it  fome  Water,  when  the  Gravey  is  brown, 
and  ftir  all  together,  and  let  them  boil  fome 
time  i  then  ftrain  it  off,  adding  a  little  Le- 
mon-Juice. 

Another  Gravey,  for  a  private  Family^ 
where  there  is  not  an  opportunity  of  get- 
ting Beef  to  make  it  of 

TAKE  fome  Butter,  and  fome  Onion> 
cut  fmall,  put  it  in  a  Sauce-Pan,  and 
fet  it  over  the  Fire  till  the  Butter  melts  i 
then  drudge  in  fome  Flour,  and  ftir  it  well, 
till  the  Froth  finks  down,  and  then  it  will 
be  brown  5  you  muft  then  have  ready  pre- 
pared 


174       ^^  Country  Ladys 

pared  the  following  Mixture  to  throw  in, 
mz,,  fome  good  old  Beer,  and  as  much 
Water,  an  Onion  cut  fmall,  fome  Pepper 
and  Salt,  a  fmall  Anchovy  fhred,  a  little 
Lemon-Peel  grated,  a  Clove  or  two,  and, 
if  you  have  it,  a  little  Mufliroom  Liquor, 
or  Liquor  of  pickled  Walnuts  5  then  let 
them  all  fimmer  together  a  little  while,  and 
it  will  produce  a  thick  good  Gravey. 

H he  Manner  ofTruffinga'S^zhhitfor  Boiling. 


CUT  the  two  Haunches  of  the  Rabbit 
clofe  by  the  Back-Bone,  two  Inches, 
and  turn  up  the  Haunches,  by  the  Sides  of 
the  Rabbit  5  skewer  the  Haunches  through 
the  lower  Parr  of  the  Back,  as  at  A  ^  then 
put  a  Skewer  through  the  utmoft  Joint  of 
the  Leg  at  B,  and  fo  through  the  Body, 
and  through  the  other  Leg,  fo  that  the 
z  end 


Part  IL        Director,  lyr 

end  of  the  Leg  reaches  the  Shoulder-Blade. 
Then  trufs  up  the  Shoulders  high,  and  let 
the  Pinnions  be  carried  back,  to  take  the 
Legs  at  B,  and  lie  between  them  and  the 
Body,  and  under  the  height  of  the  Pinnions, 
put  a  Skewer,  and  bend  the  Neck  back- 
wards, and  pafs  the  Skewer  through  all, 
at  C,  fo  that  it  fupports  the  Blade-Bone> 
and  holds  the  Head  up. 

The  Manner  of  Trufflng  a  Jingle  Rabbit 
for  Roafting.  From  Mr, W.N, Poulterer. 


YOU  cafe  the  Rabbit  all,  excepting 
the  lower  Joints  of  the  four  Lcgs^ 
and  thofe  you  chop  off :  then  pafs  a  Skew- 
er through  the  middle  of  the  Haunches, 
after  you  have  laid  them  flat,  as  at  A  5  and 
the  Fore-Legs,  which  are  called  the  Wings, 
muft  be  turn'd,  as  at  B  5  fq  that  the  fmaller 

Joint 


176        l^e  Country  Ladys 

Joint  may  be  pufh'd  into  the  Body;,  through 
the  Ribs.  This,  as  a  luigle  Rabbit,  has  the 
Spit  pafs'd  through  the  Body  and  Head,  but 
the  Skewer  takes  hold  of  the  Spit  to  pre- 
ferve  the  Haunclies.  But  to  trufs  a  couple 
of  Rabbits,  there  are  feven  Skewers,  and 
then  the  Spit  paffes  only  between  the  Skew- 
ers, without  touching  the  Rabbits. 

To  make  a  Pheafant  of  a  Rabbit,  trufs  d  in 
fuch  a  manner  J  that  it  will  appear  like  a 
Pheafant,  and  eat  like  one^  with  its  Sauce. 
This  is  called^  by  the  topping  Poulterers, 
^Poland-Chicken,  (?r^Portugal-Chickeno 
But  it  is  moft  like  a  Pheafant,  if  it  is  lard- 
ed. From  Mrs.  Johnfon,  at  the  famous 
Eating'Houfe  in  Devereux-Court  near 
the  Temple. 


?tflrn^rV<gwsiggT=:«3"Mi-ffrriM'ir  jmm 


1 


^AKE  a  young  Rabbit  full  grown 5 
cafe  it  all,  excepting  the  Fore-Feet, 

chop 


Part  II.         JJiRECToR.  177.. 

chop  off  them,    and  tlie  Head,  as  clofe  as 
may  be,  but  ftrip  thOr  Skin  from  the  hind 
Legs,  even  to  leave  the  Claws  on  them. 
Thefe  Claws  are  not  unlike  the  Claws  of 
a  Pheafant^  and  fome  good  Judges  may  be 
deceived   by  their  firft  Look,    for  they  are 
little  different  from  the  Legs  of  the  Fowls 
we  defign  to  imitate.     Then  turn  the  Neck- 
part  of  the  Rabbit,   the  Breaft  inwards,  to 
the  Scut  or  the  Rump,  leaving  the  Rump 
fomewhat  Ihort,  but  to  appear  5  then  will 
the  Rabbit  appear  in  the  Shape  above,  viz;. 
B  is  the  Scut,  or  Rump,  of  the  Rabbit,  arid 
C  is  where  the  Neck  comes,  then  will  the 
Part  mark'd  F,  appear  like  the  Breaft  of  a 
Fowl :    but  you  muft  put  up  the  ftriptLegs 
of  the  Rabbit,  over  each  fide  of  the  Neck 
of  it,  and  tie  all   together,   with  a  String, 
as  mark'd  H  H.     So  will  the  Hind-Legs  of 
the  Rabbit  appear  like  the  Legs  of  a  Fowl, 
and  where   you  fee  the  Letter  G  marked, 
the    Back  of  the  Rabbit  is  broken.     D,  is 
what  reprefents  the  Back-Side  of  the  Fowl, 
and  E    is   the   Appearance  of  the  Wings, 
which  are  fuppofed  to   be  ftuck  into  the 
Back,  where    two  large  Orifices  are  made, 
but  the  Bones  of  the  Wings,  of  the  Rabbit, 
muft  be  taken  out.    A,  fhews  the  Legs  as 
they    ought  to  be  tied,  and  O  O  Direfts 
to  the  Points  of  the  Skewers  \vhich  are  to 


run  through  it. 


N  Fig, 


178        T'he  Country  Ladys 


f^ff^insidaaiKusmtsaiHSifiiBsasaBSBm 


0 


-  0 


t    lllilll I  III,  mil Ill  I    III    I    III      ll»l|iUi    I    lllllliHII     iilli     ■   HiiHIIIil   Mil    H|i  WiaiiilllKIII 


V I  G,  4.  will  fhew  you  the  Back  of  the 
^  fame,  when  it  is  trufs'd,  with  the  Ap- 
pearance of  the  Skewers,  o,  o,  o,  o, 
with  the  Orifices,  wherein  are  the  fuppo- 
led  Bones  ^rtl^e  Wings.  If  this  is  larded 
on  the  Breaft,  I  think  it  beft,  and  it  fhould 
be  fervcd  with  the  following  Sauce,  if  it  is 
roafted. 

When  this  is  thus  prepared,  you  may 
flick  a  Pheafant's  Tail-Feather  at  the  Scut,  and 
roaft  it  as  you  would  do  a  Pheafant,  bafting 
it  well  with  Butter,  after  it  is  drudg'd  well 
with  Flour  i  then  make  the  following  Sauce 
for  it.  Take  fome  ftrong  Gravey,  and  put 
a  little  Lemon-Peel  into  it,  with  fome 
Spice,  and  a  little  Wine;  then  take  a  few 
Buttons  of  Mulhrooms  pickled,  and  thicken 
it  with  burnt  Butter,  fo  that  the  Sauce  be- 

\  comes 


Part  n.       Direct  OR. 


179 


comes  like  one  fit  for  a  Ragout,  or  Ra* 
gooy  as  the  English  pronounce  ir.  Pour 
this  over  the  fowl  or  Rabbit,  which  you 
pleafe  to  call  it,  and  ferve  it  hot,  with  a 
Garnifh  of  Lemon  fliced,  and  pickled  Red 
Beet-Roots  fliced. 

Of  TruJJing  a  Pidgeon.     Firom  the  fame* 


iWJ«W.»l.»MklMl|gjyit^^-,»U=MM««tf«- 


DRAW  it,  but  leave  in  the  Liver^ 
for  that  has  no  Gall  $  then  pufn  up 
the  Breafl:  from  the  Vent,  and  holding  up 
the  Legs,  put  a  Skewer  juft  between  the 
bent  of  the  Thigh  and  the  brown  of  the 
Leg,  firft  having  turn  d  the  Piiinions  under 
the  Back:  and  fee  the  lower  Joint  of  the 
biggeft  Pinnions,  are  ^o  pafs'd  with  the 
Skewer,  that  the  Legs  are  betw^een  them 
and  the  Body,  as  at  A. 

N  ^  A 


i8o       The  Country  Ladys 
A  Goofe  to  Trufs.    From  the  fame. 


wsasaatsai 


A 


Goofe  has  no  more  than  the  thick 
Joints  of  the  Legs  and  Wings  left 
to  the  Body  5  the  Feet,  and  the  Pinnions 
being  cut  off,  to  accompany  the  other  Gib- 
lets, which  confift  of  the  Head  and  Neck, 
with  the  Liver  and  Gizzard.  Then  at  the 
bottom  of  the  Apron  of  the  Goofe  A,  cut 
an  hole,  and  draw  the  Rump  through  it  5 
then  pafs  a  Skewer  through  the  fmall  part 
of  the  Leg,  through  the  Body,  near  the 
Back,  as  at  B 5  and  another  Skewer  through 
the  thinneft  part  of  the  Wings ,  and 
through  the  Body,  near  the  Back,  as  at  C, 
and  it  will  be  right^ 


The 


\  ■ 


Part  IL       Director, 


i8i 


The  TruJJing  of  an  Eafterling.  From  Mr. 
W.  N.  "Poulterer  of  St.  ]m^cs's'Markety 
London. 


HBIAiaUUJWSWMlg 


gjqataganianaiaBgMWEiBttBii^gM^^ 


A  Duck,  an  Eafterling,  a  Teal,  and  a 
Widgeon,  are  all  truffed  in  the 
lame  manner.  Draw  it,  and  lay  afide  the 
Liver  and  Gizzard,  and  take  out  the  Neck, 
leaving  the  Skin  of  the  Neck  full  enough 
to  fpread  over  the  Place  where  the  Neck 
was  cut  off.  Then  cut  off  the  Pinnions  at 
A,  and  raife  up  the  whole  Legs,  till  they 
are  upright  in  the  middle  of  the  Fowl  B, 
and  prefs  them  between  the  ftump  of  the 
Wings,  and  the  Body  of  the  Fowl :  then 
twift  the  Feet  towards  the  Body,  and  bring 
them  forwards,  with  the  bottom  of  th« 
Feet  towards  the  Body  of  the  Fowl,  as  at 

N  3  '  C. 


i82       ^he  Country  Ladys 

C.  Then  take  a  Skewer,  and  pafs  it  through 
the  FqwI,  between  the  lower  Joint,  next 
the  Foot,  and  the  Thigh,  taking  hold,  at  the 
fame  time,  of  the  ends  of  the  flumps  of 
the  Wings  A.  Then  will  the  Legs,  as  we 
have  placed  them,  ftand  upright,  D  is  the 
point  of  the  Skewer, 

The  Manner  of  Trujfing  a  Chicken  like 
a  Turkey-Poult,  orofirujjing  a  Turkcy- 
Poult.     From.  Mr.  W,  ^.Toulterer  of 
St,  J^mcss-Markef. 


^■aEOHMBEBB 


AKE  a  Chicken  and  cut  a  long  flit 
down  the  Neck,  on  the  Pore-part  j 
then  take  out  the  Crop  and  the  Merry- 
Thoughr,asit  iscall'di  tlien  twift  the  Neck, 
and  bring  it  down  under  the  Back,  till  the 
Hc^d  is  placed  on  |:hefide  of  the  Left-Leg; 


Partil.        DiRECTORf 


187 


put  the  Joints  of  the  Legs  into  the  Body 
of  the  Fowl,  as  at  C ;  fo  this  is  trufled 
without  a  Skewer, 

S'o  Trufs  a  Pheafant  or  Partridge.     From 
the  fame. 


wfBsi^sepamnrw  ui'immiin— 


O  T  H  the  Pheafaiiit  and  Partridge  are 
trufled  the  fame  way,  only  the  Neck 
of  the  Partridge  is  cut  off,  and  the  Neck 
and  Head  of  the  Pheafant  is  left  on  :  th^ 
Plate  above  ftiews  the  Pheafant  trufled, 
When  it  is  drawn,  cut  off  the  Pinnions, 
leaving  only  the  ftump-bone  next  the  Bread, 
and  pafs  a  Skewer  through  its  Point,  and 
through  the  Body  near  the  Back,  and  then 
give  the  Neck  a  turn  5  and  palling  it  by 
the  Back,  bring  the  Head  on  the  outfide  of 
the  other  Wing- Bone,  a^   at  A.,   and  run 

the 


1 8  mntry  JLady  s  Director, 

the  irough  both,    with  the  Head 

ftanding  lowards  the  Neck,  or  the  Rump, 
which  you  pleafe :  B  is  where  the  Neck 
runs-  Then  take  the  Legs,  with  their  Claws 
on,  and  prefs  them  by  the  Joints  together^ 
fo  as  to  prefs  the  lower  Part  of  the  Breaft, 
then  prefs  them  down  between  the  Sides- 
men, and  pafs  a  Skewer  through  all,  as  at  j 
C.  Remember  a  Partridge  muft  have  its 
Neck  cut  off,  or  elfe  in  every  thing  is 
truffed  like  a  Pheafant. 

To  boil  an  artificial  Pheafant,  ^isoith  Sellary. 
From  Mrs.  Johnfon,  Devereux- Court 
near  Temple-Bar. 

PREPARE  a  Rabbit  in  the  fame  man- 
ner as  above  direded,  only  it  muft  not 
be  larded  i  then  boil  it,  and  give  it  the  fol- 
lowing Sauce.  Take  fix  or  feven  Roots  of 
Sellary,  and  boil  them,  when  they  are 
well  clean  d  from  Dirt,  till  they  are  tender, 
then  cut  them  into  pieces  of  about  two 
Inches  long,  and  tofs  them  up  with  ftrong 
Gravey  thickened  with  burnt  Butter.  Pour 
this  over  the  artificial  Pheafant,  and  ferve 
it  hot,  well  impregnated  with  Spice.  Then 
garnifh  it  with  Lemon  fliced,  or  fliced  O- 
range,  and  fomc  fry'd  Bread,  and  fome 
Slices  of  pickled  red  Beet- Roots  5  or  round 
the  Edges  of  the  Difh,  ftrcw  fomc  fifted 
rafpings  of  Bread. 

THE    E  NT>. 


A   N 


I    N 


T  O    T  H  E 


IRST 


ART. 


a; 

Sparagus,  preferv'd.  — 

D°  breft  the  Dutch  way. 

D°  with  Cream.  — 

Artichoakes,  to  dry.         — 

D°  preferv^d.  — 

pickled.  —  " 

in  Suckers,    to  eat  raw.  -^ 

Apricot  Wine.  — — . 

Alamode  Beef.  —  — 


B. 

Randy,  Laurel. 
Birch-Wine. 
Brewing.  — — 

Beef  Cake- Soup.  "-- 

D°  to  Pot  like  Venifon. 
Part  I.  *^* 


^8 

ibid, 

69 

112 
113 
114 

ibid. 
lij 
181 


125 

.,?^ 

it/td, 

6q 
61 

Beef, 


I   N   D   E  ^. 

B^ef,  to  Collar, ^ —  6^ 

Brocoli,    to  boil.              —              —  70 

Burter.  good  in  Suffolk  *             -—         — ,  -74 

Btickingham-Che^fe,  to  make.            '— •  78 

Butter,  vny  good  or  bad.                —  87 

D°  in   general                 —            —  S6 

Burcer,    \^hat  Milk  is  good.             -^^  89 

D°  wade,  over  the  Fire.             •?---  88 

D°  wsfh'd.                —              —  91 

1)°  cburr/d  in  Summer.               —  ibid, 

D°  CiiUrn'd  in  Winter.              ibid. 

Beans,  preferv'd,  the  Winter.              —  lop 

Berberries,  to  pickie.            — -            —  131 

Beet-Pvoots^   red,  to  pickle.           -? 138 

D''  fryed.                  ibid. 

BoarVHead  imi rated.            —               —  182 

Brawn,  to  Collar.                          — —  iS6 

Boar,  v^nQn  to  be  put  up  for  Brawn.  no 

C. 

Apon,  to  dreCs.             •— ^ —            —  22 

,j  Carps,   to  ftew.                          —  3^ 

Cellars,  which  are  beft.  '          — ,         _-  40 

Cow  llip"  Wine.              "- —  70 

Cheefe,    i polled.              »-    ■--■                  ■^—  7^ 

D''  what  concerns  its  Goodnefs.        -?-  74 

Jj''  \s/hy  bad  in  Suffolk,                - —  ?'^/^. 

D""  Good  from  one  fort  of  Cattle.  75 

D°  prefcrv'd  in  Oil.                   ibid, 

D°   iMarygold.  —19 

Tf  Sage.             ™-               -f  /^ii. 

D°  Sage  in  figures.              t         — ^  80 

D°  a^/re.                 — -.               82 

D°  a^y^/V^  with  Sack.                2^/^. 

P"^   Gkucefl<i)f)in,                «— —       ■".  7^?J. 

Chsefe. 


)    E   X- 

Cheefe,  Cream.          >                   —  ^j 

t)°  Why  the  Averfion  to  it.              —  84 

Churns,  the  Sores.            —              •—  po 
Clove-Gilly-Flower  Syrup.       — -              -—107 

Cucumbers,    to  pickle.                 -^ —  119 

Codlings,   to  pickle,  green.       "—         '—  125 

D°  to  pickle  Mango.            —            — •  ibid, 

Cherry-Brandy.              ■                    124 

Cherry-Beer.             '                    ■  ■  125 

Cherry-Cordial.                • — ^            —  ihid. 

Cherries  diftilfd.              ■                    ibid* 

Cherry,  Cornelian,  in  Brandy.       •*■ 126 

CalPs  Feet  Jelly.            —■- — —             139 

Cockles,  pickled.          %»  *■-  168 

Capons,   to  fet  upon  Eggs. 

D. 

DAiry,  how  to  build.                 — ^—  S^ 

Different  Sorts  of  Goosberries.  9S 

Different  Sorts  of  Currans,             loi 

Ducks,   wild,  to  roaft. i6z 

Ducks,  wild,  haftiM.                >  16^ 


I 


> 


E. 

EEls,  their  time'of  Breeding. 

D°  in  plenty.          --:  14 

Eggs,  to' prepare  fix  ways.  19 

Eels,  to  clear  from  Mud.              »  3  5 

D°  to  roaft.              3  s 

D°  to  Pitchcot. - — •  37 

D'  to  Collar.           —  ibid, 

Elder-Flowers,    to  dry.         — -         97 

Elder  Vinegar.               — —  —  ibid. 

Elder- Wine,   red. »  129 

D°  white.          — =- .          — -  130 

,V  s  Englffh- 


INDEX. 

F. 

FOwls  and  Birds,  the  Difference.  14 

Fowl,  to  drefs.          '-    ■    *           —  22 

D°  CO  farce.               —                 —  23 

Fricaflee  of  Chickens,  brown.           — -  24 

D""  white.               ^^ ^            —  ibid. 

Filli  Gravey  for  Soups.          ——           —  25 

Flounders,  pickled.  * -~  —  6$ 

Frcntmiac-'^\'inQ  imitated.                   —  67 

Fruits  preferv'd  for  Tarts.             '  104 

F/or^«cfi'-Wi'ie  imitated.            j^"^  no 

Frofzmz/rti:- Wine  to  make.                -—  15:5 

Fowls,  the  Sorts.                     '             — -  17 

FiOi,  to  boil  firm.          -— ~                 .— .  3^ 

Fiih  boiled,  the  Sauce.              ■"    ■  3  5 

G. 

Eefe,   when  CO  buy.             —  125 

D""  to  fat.             ~ 1^3 

B""  to  roaft.         164 

B\  how  to  kill.              ibid. 

Grapes,   ripe  early.                 '^  '  151 

Grape- Wine.             154 

H. 

Erb-Soup,  the  Foundation.         —  26 

Hops,              ~- _—  4p 

Hare,  to  pot.                   ■""■■  6z 

Herbs,  to  dry.              «— .                 —  ^a 

Hare  courfed,  how  to  keep.         13/ 

D°  hunted,  to  drefe.              -—         —  ibid, 

D°  the   Pudding  for  it.             ibid. 

D"  to  roaft.              <— —              — —  134 
I                                                  Hare, 


I    iS    u    t,    X. 


Hare,  to  flew.  — 

Hung-Beef.  — - 

Herbs  infufed  in  Spirits. 


L. 


Arks,    to  drefs. 


M. 

Alt,  which  is  good. 

D°  Liquor,  to  bottle. 
Mountain-Wine,  to  imitate. 
Milk,    to  be  examin*d.  — 

Mace  in  Rennet.  ^          ■ 
Mead,  fmall,  to  make.           *— • 
Metheglin  or  ftrong  Mead.         — - 
Mufhrooms.          — •            — » 
Mufhroom-Gravey.  

D°  Ketchup.  — 

Mufhrooms,  flew'd.  — 

D°  broiled.  ■ '    ' 

D°  fry'd. 


Mufhrooms,  a  Foundation  for  Sauce, 
Mufhrooms,  to  powder.  

D""  to  pickle.             ■ 
Melons,  green,  to  picklO;,  like  Mango. 
Muflels,   fcallop'd.         

D"  fryed.  ^ — . 

r    I)°  pickled.  — 

Moriilas,   to  drefs.            —         .^ 
Morillas,    to  dry.  <— — 

D°  in  Ragouft.  ■ 

D^  to  fry,  


187 

91 


119 


'  4S 

66 

72 

135 
ibid, 
140 
141 
142 
144 

14^ 

ihid. 

1^6 

147 
i6z 

17a 

ibid. 

1(58 

I7T 
ij6 

177 
178 


O. 


o. 

O  Range-Flower  Cordial.           —  5^4 

Onions,  pickled.             —       —  148 

Oyfters,  from  Colchefler.            —  16$ 

Oyfters,   to  flew*               —         — —  166 

Orange- Wine.           —                 — «  16 

Oyfters,  in  Scallop  Shells.            ■  167 

Oyfters,  roafted.         — —              —  ibid. 

Oyfters,  pickled.                -^ —        *^ —  168 

Onion-Soup.             •'—  180 

P. 

PIdgeon,  wild.            — •              —  2 
D*"  tame,   the  Sorts.        -^-^        —      2 

D°  Carrier,   its  ufe.             —          —  4 

D°  broiled.            11 

D°  in  Pafte  or  Dumplings.           —  12 

D°  ftew'd.        ' —          —  ihid. 

Portmanteau  Pottage.            - —          5S 

Pike,  to  roaft.               —                -—  30 

D**  to  bake.        —            —  31 

Peafe,  preferved  all  the  Year.     10^ 

Pickled  Walnuts.        ■ —                 —  io5 

D°  Cucumbers.          »                     - —  119 

D°   for  Mangoes.                 ■""'  117 

Do  Kidney-Beans.               - —         —  121 

D°  Nafturtium-Seeds*                    —  122 

Partridges  ftewM  with  Sallery.        • —  1 3  z 

Do  roafted.        ibid^ 

Pheafants^   their  Sauces.              -^ 135 

D°  to  drefs.         —        — ■ —        ■—  17^ 

Potatoes.          —        ""^"^  138 

Perch,   with  Mufhrooms.        —       —  ^^ 

Q: 


Q 


I.N  D   E  X. 
Ulnce-Wine.  ' —  ^—        170 


R. 

REnnetj  how  made  in  EJfex,        - — -  71 

D°  another  way.               —  jz 

Rennet- Bags,  which  are  good.           75 

Renner-Bags,  how  to  make  them  good.  ibid. 

Rennet  with  Spice.              — \  84 

Red  Surfeit-Water.             - —  P5 

Rofa  Solis^  to  diftil.               ■  '  ■           P4 

Rarpberry-Wine.          — -         115 

Red  Goosberry-Wine.          *—  116 

Rabbitp  roafled  with  a  Pudding.        171 

8. 

SAufages  of  Fifh.            — -            —  18 j 

Saufages,   of  Pork             ■■'   '     ■         —  184 

Soup  of  Herbs.                 —              26 

Shrub,  to  make.         —            — —  28 

Sauce  Royal,  or  Travelling-Sauce.  — •     55 

Spinach,  ftew^'d.          "                        —  6p 

Ballads,  to  drefs.  "    '  ^6 

Sage-Wine.              —             «  ^j 

Skerrets,  to  drefs.            —           -  123 

Salfify,  to  drefs.              —            il;id. 

ScoYz>ijnera^    to  drefs.            —            —  Hid. 

Saffron,    to  cure.              ■'■■  '                    —  160 

Snipes,  to  roaii:.            ^— ■              »—  171 

Soup,  a  VHyvYogne.           —              i3o 

T. 

^Okay-Wine,   to  imitate.          126 

Travelling' Sauc?,                  -■ —  55 

Tench, 


I   N  D   EX 

Tench,  which  is   beft.     .y      • 
Trout  in  Seafon.  — : 

Trouts,   to  pot.  . —        — 

Tragopogon,  r.o  dreft.  — 

Truffles,  to  broil.  — 

Truffles,  to  ftew.  — 

Truffles,  ragou'd.  — ^ 

.Turkey,  to  drefs.        •—  - 

U 

VEal-GIue.  — 

Vifney.        ^  — 
yenifon,  and  its  Sauces. 

W. 

Ater-Soochy.  —^ 

Wines,   boiled.         — ^ 
Wines,  fermented.  — 

Wines,  to  help,  by  Sugar. 
Wines,  of  St.  Helena,  reformed. 
[Woodcocks,  to  roaft.  — 


52 

108 

174 

i7T 
ibid, 

178 


58 


55 
154 

ibid, 

IT7 
17X 


INDEX 


T    O 


PART    11. 


A. 

Nchovics,  how  to  keep  a  long  time. 

fag.  38 
Artificial  Lobfter.             —  69 

^S  Artificial   Ratefia.        —  71 

Abricots,  preferved   in  Jelly.  75 

Ditto,  for  Tarts.  ihid^ 

Artificial  Creams.                  ^-■■■o     .  85 

Abricots,  dry'd.             —                 —       102 
Almond-Cakes,  fmalL                    —  151 

Apple-Dumplings,  in  an  extraordinary  way.153 
Ditto,  another  way.  1^4 

Anchovies,  artificial,  made.  i6z 


B. 


B 


Roil*d  Whitings. 
Beef,  to  fair,  immediately. 


13? 
—       166 

Beef, 


INDEX. 

Beef,  hafliM  raw.              r?^            —  jj^ 

Bifcuit,  of  Potatoes^                      — .  ^j. 

Butter'd  Crabs.              ^— ^-^            -_  ^^ 

Barcelona-Snuffy  to  make.                — .  24 

Bacon-Froize.            ^—              —  ^^ 

Brown  FricafTee  of  Sheep VTrotters.  5? 

Bitters  for  Wine.             —               -«  -o 

Brisket  of  Beef,  to  flew.  ^q 

Beef,  to  ftew,  in  Soup.                  —  5i 

Beef,  a  Rump,  to  flew.              103' 

Beet-Card  Tart.                        - —  jjq 

Beef-Collups,  from  Oxford.                — i  114 
Beef-Steaks,  flew'd.                           — *•      *   i^/^. 

Butter,  recovered  from  Oil.  iiy 

Bifque  of  Fifh.                            ——  j2p 

Badger,  its  Gammon  roafted.               — •  145 

Bullace,  preferv'd.             - —           i^a 


CTj&r«j-Wine,  imitated.                  -^  "[^ 

Citron- Water,  from  Barhadoss,  to 

Cabbage-Pudding.                              — -  13 

Collar  of  Mutton,  roafted.          —  19 

Cakes,  fweet,  made  of  Parfni ps.  43 

Ditto,  made  of  red  Beet-Roots.  3a 

Comfits,  to  make.                             ■   '    '  ''**  45 

Ditto,  to  make  in  Colours.  47 

Caviar,  to  pickle  or  preferve*            23 

CoHar  of  Sturgeon  roafled.                      *■  24 

Carp-Pye.               —                       —  30 

Currans  in  Syrup.                     —  42 

Cakes,  baked,  of  Rafpberries.  44 

Cakes 


I  N   D   EX. 

Cakes,  of  Lemon.          .     .       ~    ^  4^ 

Clary  and   Eggs.            — ^               ^  51 

Cheefe-Cakes,  of  Lemon*  5^ 

Ditto,  Orange.                            •—  i^/U 

Ditto,  Good.                     '  $6 

Crab,  artificially  made.                        — -  67 

Ditto,  another  way.                  —  68 

Crabs,  butter*d.                      —  2S 

Ditto,  artificial,  butterM.  68 

Cherry-Brandy,  artificial;                 •^-^^  6^ 

Ditto,  right.                          — *  70 

Cucumbers,  to  ftew.                         *^.  7<^ 

Ditto,  to   farce.                 "^^              '  ihid^ 

Cocks-Combsj  artificial.                         *-*•  75)* 

Calf's-Liver,  fluffed  and  roafted.  ihid. 

Ditto,   another   way.                        *#-  8a 

Cream- Cuftards.                 ^'       ^  81 

Capons  Livers  imitated.                       — —  i^ii. 

Creams  of  Rafpberries.              -^^^  85 

Cornelian  Cherries,  Preferve;             — ^  loo 

Ditto,  in  Marmalade.  il^Jj, 

Currans  in  Jelly.                     ■    j  -:-"-  -  loi 

Cakes,  from  Lisbon,                                — •  108 

Cakes,  of  Orange.                •'-^  117 

Cakes,  fine.                   *—                 —  up 

Ditto,  from  Penzance,  120 

DlttOy  horn  AWthampton,           ^-  124 

Cow- Heel  drefs'd.  137 

CaifVHead,  drefs'd  in  a  grand  manner.  155 

CalfVHead-Pye.  158 

Ditto,  baked.             ——                     —  j6o 

Creams,  artificial,                         •«— *  S6 

Cream,  with  Sweet-meats.                    —  87 

Cucumbers,  to  preferve  in  the  Winter.  88 

Cologn's" 


1     J.^      A-/^ 

t^a/c^KVGin,  to  make.  t— ~                 115 

Candy'd  Orange-Peel.  -.— .     nj 

Ditto,  Lemon-Peel.  il;id. 

Claret,  Hermitage,  to  imitate. .            —       8 

Chefhire-Fyc,  171 

Chicken,  to  trufs.  —            182 


D 


D. 

Amfons  in  Jamm.  joi 

Damfbn-Wine.  —    105 

Dog-Grafs.            — —  — •  107 

E. 

ERingo-Roots,  to  candy.  ~         15:3: 

Eafterling,  to  trufs.         i8i 

Extraordinary  Tables.  —      i(5p 

F. 

Flfti,    to  keep,  a  long  time.         —         6 

Fruit,   baked.  >^" '      ■      -       122 

Flounders,   dreffed.  —       130 

Frogs,  white  Fricaffee.  —               143 

Ditto,  brown  Fricaffee.  —         144 

Florentine^  Imperial.  —    108 

Farced-Meat.              —  —             10^ 

G. 

GRavey,  drawn  quick  for  a  private  Family. 

Gravey,  rich,  made  without  Flefh.  ihid, 

Finger-Roots,  prefervM,  Green.  —      91 

■>ofe,  to  trufs.  ' —  i^^ 

nes,  preferved  in  Syrnp.  • —    154 

Geneva 


Geneva,  from   Cokgn^   to  make.  115 
Gourmandine-Pes  e,    drefs'd  feveral  ways.     15 

Ditto,    broil'd.  ibid. 
Grape,  to  keep  the  Winter.                —       ip 

Ginger,  to  preferve.              — ^  —     40 

Green-Peafe  Pottage.                       — •  67 

Gudgeons,  to  drefs.               —  -^^^  13^ 

Grand  Sauce  for  Fifh.                  134 

Goofe,  boiled.                 —                 ' —  148 

Green-Peaches  preferved.  152 

Goosberries,    preferved.                 •—  ibid, 

H. 

• 

Ermitage-Wine,    to  imitate.  | 

Hare-Pye.  40 

Hungary-^W&t^r,   to  make.             35 

Hare,   to    keep.                — ^                —  5 

Hard  Pe^fe-Soup.                    "—  —    65 

Herrings,  pickled,    to  ferve.              — ■  72 

Hog's-Hardet  loaded.                8^ 

Hartshorn  Jelly.               — •            p| 

Hadi   ot   raw    Beef.  113 

Hackin,  from   Cu?nberland.           — —  12a 

Ham,    Weftphalia,    roafted.  141 

Hams,    Weftphalia,  arcificially  made.  162 

Hog  barbacued.                              —  i5> 

Herrings,    broiled,  not   to  make   fick.  135 

Hare  to   trufs.                   —              —  184 
Herrings,  baked  in  an  extraordinary . way.  172 


K 

Atchep,   in  Pafte,  to   ngake. 

O 


LEmons  in  Marmalade.  41 

Lemon-Peels,  preferv'd  in  Jelly.  48 

Lemon-Cakes.             —                    —  49 

Lumber- Pye.             — ^^ 55 

Lap-Dog,   to  keep  in  Health.           —  106 

Liver  and  Crow.            • — •            —  6i 


M. 

MUftard,   of  feveral  Sorts. 
Muftard-Seed-Flt)ur.  ~ 

Marmalade  of  Peaches.  -^— 

Ditto,  of   Plums.     — 

Marygold-Flowers,    preferved.  — 

Marmalade  of  Pine-Apples. 

Marmalade  of  Quince.  ■ 

Mutton,  the  Neck  in  Broth,   an  extraordinary 

way.  —  —  141 

Mutton,  the  Neck  ragou*d.  -~     ^o 


34 
73 
74 
91 

95 
138 


N 


N. 
Eats-Tongues,  roafted. 

O. 


OYfters,  fry'd.  — 

Oranges   in   Marmalade, 
Orangery  Snuff.  — 

Orange-Butrer.  ^^ 

Oiions,   boil'd,  — ' 


70 


—  35 

ibid. 

Ortolans, 


INDEX. 

r 

Ortolans,  to  drefs.                — -  44 

Orange-Peels,   preferv^d  in  Jelly.  48 

Orange- Flowers,  preferved  in  Jelly.  49 

Orange- Tarts.                  "—  ■--■  '-  50 

Orange-chips.                                     92 

Oxeo,  to  kill  and   fait  in  hot  Weather  170 

P. 

P  Each- Tarts,  white.               73 

Pepper  Mint- Water.  104 

Pidgeon,  to  trufs.             ' —             —  179 

Potatoe-Puddings.                         ~  167 

Provifions,  to  take  into  the  Country;  idi 

Plums,  dry 'd  with  Sugar.              * -^ —  150 

Plum-Porridge.            —  147 

Pyes,  minced,   or  Chriflmas-Fycs,  146 

Pafte,  to  make,  of  all  Sorts.            —  127 

Plums,   dry'd.                      -—  118 

Pippin  Pafte.                 — -                 —  ^^ 

Pine- Apple?,  in  Marmalade.                — -  95 

Pine-Apple-Tarts.                      —  94 

Peach-Tarts,    red.           —                   —  loO 

Pheafant,  to  keep  fweet.                 —  5 

Powdered,  Sauce.                   —  ly 

Pig,  to  ftew.                  -»—                —  51 

Ditto,  to  ftew  another  way^  5  2 

Prefervation  of  Flefti  from  tainting.  3 

Plum,   Marmalade.                                  —  74 

Pound-Cakes.                    ^  82 

Pudding,  fix  Hours,                   —  8^ 
Pidgeons,  embalmM.                ■ 
Pidgeons,  preferved.                         ~ 
Pippin-Tart.            .*— •           — 

O  2  f 


Pickled  Marygqljd- Flowers.   ^  — —       91 
Partridges,  to  Sf^^,   a  long  time  in  hot  Wea- 
ther.                                  5 

Pheafantj  to  trufs.  —  187 


Q. 

Uinces,   preferred. 

uince,  Marmalade,  red. 
iTto,  White.  - 


no 
in 


R. 


Urn,  to  "make. 
Rum,   with  Amber. 
Rabbit   truffed  for  Roafting. 

Ditto,  for  Boiling. 

Ditto,  trufs *d  like  a 

Ditto,  to  roaft  with 

Ditto,  to  boil. 
Rafpherry-Pudding. 
Rago\'-t  of   Tripe. 
Rat?/^.a,   to  make.  *■ 

Ditto,  artificial,  to  make. 
Rabbits,  white  Fricaffee. 


Pheafant. 
Mufhrooms. 


9 
148 

174 

175 
ibid, 
174 

4? 

70 


& 


STurgeon,    cured. 
Sturgeon,   pickled. 
Ditto,  frtfh,  to    roaft. 
Ditto,  frefh,   to  boil. 
.    Ditto,  frefh,  in  a  Pye. 
Sheeps-Tongues,  pi^kied. 


—  li. 

—  1$ 

27 

Smoaking- 


1  isgo  E  X. 

Smcaking-ClofetS,  for  Hams.  ip 
Sorts  of  Muftard.  ^— —  .  5^,  37 
Shoulder  of  Mutton  roafKd  like  Venifon.  59 

Syrup   of  Mulberries.  42 

Syrup  of  Rafpberries.  Md. 

Sheeps-Trotters,  fricafleed.  — —  52 

Sorrel-Tarts.  —  r      *^  5^ 

Stew'd   Peaches.  — *^  58 

Stinking,   of  Fiefti,  prevented.  —  170 

Stew'd  Wild-Ducks.  — -  59 

Sea-Larks,  or  Oyfters,  roafted  on  Spits.  6j 

Shoulder,  of  Mutton,  farced.  64 

Salmi,  or  Salmi-Gundy.  71 

'ShropJhire-?ye.  -**—         ;  ****•  77 

Ditto,  another  way.  '"'"  '■"""'  78 

Seed-Cake.  —  •**  91 

Sick  Lap- Dog,  to  cure.  —•  ic6 

Soles,  toftew.  —  —  11  ^ 

Scots  Snuff,   to  make.  — ^  11^ 

ShropJhire-'Diih,  Ii8 

Salmon-boiled.  129 

Soles,  fry'd.  — *  130 

Smelts,   fry'd.  ~    ^  ibid. 

Snails,  with  white  Sauce.  144 

Ditto,  with  brown  Sauce.  —  14J 

Sweet-meats,  candy'd.  —  —  423 

Syllabubs,  whipt.  — ^  168 

Spirit  of  Lilly-of-the- Valley.         — -  160 

StewM   VeaL  —  •*—  6$ 

Sauce   for  a  Bifque  of  Fifh.  134 

T. 

^T^-  Urkey-Poult,   to  trufs.  —  i'^ 

Ji    Teal,  to  trufs.  —  i- 

Tri^ 


IN   D   £    X. 

Tripe,  made. of  Eggs.          —  50 
*Torcoife,  or   Turtle,   the  Gibblets  drefs*d.  95 

Tortoife,  or  Turtle-Flefh,   to  roaft.  96 

Ditto,  in  a  Pye.                     —  97 

Turbut,  to  drefs.                  —  130 

Tongue,  to  roaft.                          — -  136 

Tench,  boiled.             —                —  139 

Turnips,    from  Hertford/hire,   to    drefs.  142 

Turnips,  yellow,   fronl  France,  to  drefs.  143 

Tables^  extraordinary,   for  Treats.  169 

U. 

Vinegar,   to  make.                —  11 

Ufquebaugh,  the  yellow  fort.  1 2 

Ufquebaugh,  the  green  Sort.              —  13 

Verjuice.                    —                16 

Umble-Pye.                               —  57 

Venifon,  to  keep.                        —  4 

Venifon-Pafty.                         —  83 

Venifon,   boiled.                      — ^  14^ 

Viper-Soup.                           —  i49 

W. 

Wild-Ducks,  to  keep.               ^  ^ 
Wild-Ducks,  to  recover  from  ftinkmg. 

Wild-Duck,  to.crufs.      "      '      -  ^8. 

Widgeon,  to  trufs         -          -^^  ^^'»* 


4. 


i^ 


BOOKS  lately  TuUi^ed. 

j.T^T  E  W  Improvements  of  Planting  and  Gar^ 
J^    dening,    bath  Philofophical   and  Praftical 
In  three  Parts,     i.  Containing  a  new  Syftem  ofVe' 
getation.     Explaining  the  Moti(n  of  the  Sap,  aft- 
Generation  of  Plants.     Of"  Soils,  and  the  Improve 
ment  of  Foreft-Trees.  With  a  new  Invention,  wher 
by  more  Defigns  of  Garden- Plats  may  be  made  in 
Hour,  than  can  be  found  in  all  the  Books  of  Gard 
ing  yet  extant.     2.  The  beft  manner  of  improv 
plower-Gardens,  or  Parterres  :  Of  raifing  and  j; 
pagating  all  forts  of  Flowers  5  and  of  the  adorn 
of  Gardens.     3.  Of  improving  Fruit- Trees,  Kitch 
Gardens,  and  Green-Houfe  Plants.     With  the  G 
tleman  and  Gardener's  Kalendar.     To  which  is 
ded,  that  fcarce   and  valuable  Tra<3;,  intitled,  H 
fordjhire  Orchards.  The  fixth  Edition,  with  an 
pendix,  treating  of  feveral  Matters  omitted  * 
former  Irapreffions.    llluftrated  with  Copper- 
By  Richard  'Bradley^  ProfelTor  of  Botany  in 
verfity  of  Cambridge^  and  F.  R.  S, 

2.  Husbandry  and  Trade  improved:  Be 
le(S;icn  of  many  Valuable  Papers  relating  to 
tel,  Coals,  Hops,  Wool,  ^c.  with  a  cot- 
talogue  of  the  feveral  Sorts  of  Ea**'^ 
per  Produft  3  the  beft  i^*- 
with  the  Art  of  draix)' 
alfo  full  and  ey-'*^ 
Brewing,  ^^ 
ftrumer 
Manr 


Richard  Bradley,  $.  R/^.  and  Profeffbrof  Bo- 
in  the  Univerfiry  o( Cambridge.  In  four  Volumes. 
The  Vineyard:  A  Treatife  /hewing,     i.  The 
\e  and  Method  of  Planting,  Manuring,  Culti- 
» SLixd  Drefling  of  Vines  in  ForeignParts.  2.  Pro- 
Onions  for  du  wing,  prefling,  making,  keep- 
^g,  and  cunng  all  Defeats  in  the  Wine.  3.  An 
i  familiar  ^Method  of  planting   and  raifing 
^^ngla?2d\  to  the,  greateft  PerfeiSion  5  illul- 
ith  feveral  ufeful  Examples.    4.  New  Ex- 
i  in  Grafting,   Budding,     or  Inoculating  j 
all  Sorts  of  Fruit  may- be  much  more  im- 
m  at  prefent ,  particularly  the  Peach,  Apn- 
arine,   Plumb,    ^c,     5.  The  beft  Manner 
feveral  Sorts  of  compound   Fruit,  which 
yet  been  attempted   in   E72gland»     Being 
yations  made  by  a  Gentleman  in  his  Tra- 
^  fecond  Edition. 

ovels :  Tranflated  from  the  French  of 
I  \uthor  of  Zayde,  and  the  ^rincefs  of 

i  '.  The  beautiful  Pyrate  ;  or,  The  con- 

^^igenia  h  or.  The  Force  of  T>^£- 
-    The  imprudent  Favourite, 
g        nv  Difcovery.     5.  Mif- 
*^  Lovers. 

"<5  and  Reigns 

ni  King 

^end 

is 


^ 


Boston  Public  Library  | 

Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


inw^ 


m«K  4 


lb 


iilii  ifi 


1 
ill 


■*iSf 

•    m 


viij; 


5ii!;;;^.i;H| 


■;ii;« 


