♦    ♦ 


♦     4     ♦     ♦ 


<? 


►     4> 

^TL- 

;♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦  * 

4f 

►    ♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦1 

♦ 

♦ 

♦  , 

t         $ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦■  | 

1-        ♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

W 

j»     ♦ 

ra 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

i'    ♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

4   | 

*     ♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

*f> 

i»    ♦ 

'*£ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

♦ 

fi      ♦ 

4 

4 

♦ 

t: 

<ty 

4    f 

V 


's{J%    s€ffe     4/  ^*7^£, 


s^f  stffTts  £/<£, 


7  \  -.  r  A^r^/u^y   ^    stf-pits  tstu^^L/iiag/ 


'a^z^  , 


CJ*,      7<t£ 


*p 


GIFT 
OF 
MINERVA  PINNELL 

University  of  Illinois 
at  Urbana-Champaign 


/ 


"Crumbs  From 
Our  Friends'  Tables" 


Collected  by 

Loyal  Friends  Class 

o/the 

Christian  Sunday  School 

Kansas,  Illinois 
1923 


THE  RECIPES  in  this  book  have  been 
kindly  contributed  by  the  friends  of  the 
Class.  Fund  derived  from  the  sale  of  these 
books  to  go  to  Class  treasury  to  be  used  for 
benevolent  and  missionary  purposes. 

Marie  S.  Pinnell,  Teacher. 

Melissa  Wilhoit,  President. 

Myrna  Bradford,  Vice-President. 

Bertha  Warner,  Secretary-Treasurer. 

Delilah  Nay. 

Edna  Fitzpatrick. 

Margaret  Moler. 

Pauline  Baber. 

Dons  Pinnell. 

Virginia  McKnight. 

Susan  Bennett. 

Maxine  Colson. 

Edith  Melton. 

Ethel  Newport. 

Gladys  Newport. 

Mabel  Morstatter. 

Class  Motto:  "Glad  to  Serve." 


Pag?  4 


INDEX 


Bread 41 

Cake 7 

Cookies 16 

Confections 24 

Drinks 32 

Dumplings  . 40 

Eggs 40 

Fish 31 

Ices  and  Ice  Cream •  •  •   33 

Icings 11 

Meats 39 

Noodles 39 

Pastry 35 

Pickles 62 

Preserves 62 

Puddings 50 

Salads 56 

Salad  Dressings 60 

Sandwiches 49 

Soup 47 

Miscellaneous 66 


o 

NO 


Page  5 


/^OOKERY  means  the  knowledge  of  Medea  and 
^*  of  Orce  and  of  Helen  and  of  the  Queen  of 
Sheba.  It  means  the  knowledge  of  all  herbs  and 
fruits  and  balms  and  spi(  es,  and  all  that  is  heal- 
ing and  sweet  in  the  fields  and  groves  and  savory 
in  meats.  It  means  carefulness  and  inventiveness 
and  willingness  and  readiness  of  appliances.  It 
means  the  economy  of  your  grandmothers  and  the 
science  of  the  modern  chemist;  it  means  much 
testing  and  no  wasting,  it  means  English  thorough- 
ness and  French  art  and  Arabian  hospitality;  and, 
in  fine,  it  means  that  you  are  to  be  perfectly  and 
always  ladies  —  loaf  givers. —  RUSKIN. 


TABLE  OF  EQUIVALENT  WEIGHTS 
AND  MEASURES 


1  saltspoon-  $  teaspoon 

:i  teaspoons— 1  tablespoon 
16  tablespoons— 1  cup 

2  cups      I  pint 

2  pints—  I  quart 

4  cups— 1  quart 

2  cups  granulated  sugar-  1  pound 

4  cups  Hour — I  pound 

2  cups  butter— I  pound 

2  tablespoons  butter-  I  ounce 

2  tablespoons  liquid  — I  ounce 

4  tablespoons  flour- 1  ounce 

1  square  unsweetened  chocolate 


I   ounce 


Rage  6 


We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  and  art. 
We  may  live  without  conscience,  we  may  live  without  heart. 
We  may  live  without  friends,  we  may  live  without  books. 
But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks. 

He  may  live  without  books,  what  is  knowledge  but  grieving? 
He  may  live  without  hope,  what  is  hope  but  deceiving? 
He  may  live  without  love,  what  is  passion  but  pining? 
But  where  is  the  man  who  can  live  without  dining? 


CAKE 


ANGEL  CAKE 

IVi  cup  whites  of  eggs,  l1^  cup  granulated  sugar  rolled  and  sifted, 
I  cup  flour  sifted  three  times,  l/4  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  vanilla,  1 
tpaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Add  salt  to  eggs,  beat  to  foam,  add  cream  of 
tartar,  beat  again.  Add  other  ingredients.  Bake  1  hour  in  slow  oven. 

.MABEL  P.  BROWN. 
SPONGE  CAKE 
Made  with  egg-yolks  only — Beat  6  egg-yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-col- 
ored. Add  1  cup  sugar,  gradually,  beating  with  the  egg  beater.  Measure  and 
sift  together  \y2  cup  sifted  pastry  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1 
teaspoon  salt.  Add  to  mixture  alternating  with  V2  cup  hot  water.  Continue 
beating  with  egg  beater.  Add  y2  teaspoon  flavoring.  Pour  into  greased  cake 
pan  and  bake  at  320    F.  for  1  hour.  MABEL  P.  BROWN. 

WHITE  CAKE 
1  cup  sugar,       y2  cup  butter,      2  cups  cake  flour,      2-3  cup  milk,      3  lev- 
el teaspoons  baking  powder,     whites  of  3  eggs,       1  teaspoon  flavoring.  Bake 
in  two  layer  cake  tins  and  ice  it  with  caramel  icing. 

MARJORIE  BENNETT. 
WHITE  CAKE  (Mock  Angel  Food) 
1%  cup  sweet  milk,  V*  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  2  2-3  cups  flour,  3 
teaspoons  taking  powder,  1%  cup  sugar,  whites  of  2  eggs,  pinch  of 
salt.  Method:  Sift  sugar,  flour,  baking  powder,  cream  tartar,  and  salt  sev- 
eral times.  Heat  milk  and  pour  over  dry  ingredients,  stir  in  beaten  whites, 
lake  45  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  MRS.  EDWIN  STARK. 

WHITE  CAKE 
\y2   cups  sugar,       %   cup     milk,       %    cup  butter,       3   teaspoons   baking 
rowder,       whites  of  6  eggs,       3  cups  flour.  LUCY  S.  NEAL. 

?age  7 


MT  (IKE 

\y2  cups  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  %  cup  cold  water,  2  cups  flour. 
1  cup  walnuts,  whites  of  4  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  cold  water,  the  flour,  *£  of  the 
beaten  egg  whites,  then  the  nuts  cut  and  floured,  the  rest  of  the  beaten  egg, 
and  lastly,  the  baking  powder  and  the  flavoring.  Bake  in  an  oblong  loaf 
cake  pan  for  50  minutes.  Frost  with  white  uncooked  icing.  (Pearl  Bailey's 
Cook  Book.)  PAULINE  BABER. 

HllhOHV   MT  CAKE 

%  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  cold  water,  2  cups  flour,  1 
cup  hickory  nuts,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  whites 
of  3  eggs.  Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  water  very  slowly,  almost  drop  by 
f'rop,  beating  constantly.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  twice  and 
mix  with  nuts.  Stir  into  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  flavoring,  mix  in  egg 
whites  which  have  been  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  30 
minutes.  MARY  WHITESIDE. 

DELICATE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  %  cup  water,  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, whites  of  4  eggs  (or  2  whole  eggs),  l  teaspoon  flavoring,  iy> 
.tips  flour.  ANNA  MAY  SWICKARD. 

FRl  IT  CAKE 

1  lb.  flour,  \i  lb.  brown  sugar,  V4  lb.  butter,  4  eggs,  *4  teaspoon 
cloves,  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  nutmeg,  14  teaspoon  salt, 
'iz  cup  coffee,  iy2  lb.  raisins,  %  lb.  currants,  %  lb.  citron,  %  lb. 
candied  apricots,  y2  lb.  candied  cherries,  %  lb.  candied  pineapple. 
Cream    butter,  add  sugar  and  eggs.  MRS.  LELAND  HONNOLD. 

FRITT  CAKE 
3  lbs.  butter,  3  lbs.  brown  sugar  beaten  to  a  cream,  3  lbs.  flour,  G 
lbs.  currants,  6  lbs.  raisins  (seeds  removed),  1  lb.  citron  (sliced  thin),  3 
glasses  brandy,  28  eggs,  1  ounce  cinnamon,  1  ounce  grated  nutmeg, 
%  ounce  cloves,  %  ounce  mace.  Roll  the  raisins,  currants,  citron  in  part 
of  the  flour,  when  cake  is  baked  pour  brandy  over  it.  Keep  in  tight  jar. 

MRS.  OAR. 
KAHOGAHY  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  2  eggs  (beaten  separately),  \2  cup  but- 
ter-milk (in  cup),  teaspoon  soda  in  butter-milk,  water  to  fill  cup,  3  cups 
Hour,  2  sqs.  Baker's  chocolate  (melted  by  steam),  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der. Bake  in  moderate  oven.  MRS.  R.  O.  STOXEBURNER. 

MAHOGANY   CAKE 
%  cup  bitter  chocolate  dissolved  in  1  cup  boiling  water,       \y>  cup  gran- 
ulated sugar,      scant  *£  cup  butter,       (cream  well  and  add)       1  cup  milk  and 
the  melted  chocolate,      yolk  of  3  eggs,      scant  teaspoon  soda  (in  boiling  wat- 
er 1.       -1  cups  flour,       whites  of  eggs,       vanilla,       2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

E.  WILHOIT. 
CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
2  sqs.  or  1  cup  grated  bitter  chocolate,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter 
(scant),  4  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour, ~~1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Melt  chocolate  and  butter,  add  sugar  and  cream  well,  add 
yolks  of  eggs,  beat  well,  then  milk,  flour  and  baking  powder,  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Flavor.  Best  luck  with  sour  cream  and  soda  instead  of  sweet 
milk.  ItC,      if  E.  P.  GREATHOUSE. 


Page  8 


FUDGE  CAKE 

2-3  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  %  cup  chocolate, 
2%  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  ty  cup  walnuts  (coarsely 
broken).  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  milk,  stir  in  sifted  flour  and  baking- 
powder,  add  dissolved  chocolate,  beaten  eggs  and  nuts. 

Frosting — 1%  teaspoons  butter,  y2  cup  unsweetened  cocoa,  1*4  cups 
sugar,  !/4  cup  milk,  %  teaspoon  vanilla,  few  grains  salt.  Boil  8  minutes 
and  beat.  LOLA  REDDEN. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 
1%  cups  sugar,       *£  cup  butter,       %  cup  cocoa,      3  eggs,       y2  cup  cold 
water,      1  level  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  %  cup  sour  milk,      2  cups  flour, 
flavoring.  Cream    sugar,  butter  and  cocoa,  add  egg  yolks,  water,  milk,  soda 
and  flour  and  beat  well.  Fold  in  whites  of  eggs. 

MRS.  BRUCE  REDMAN. 
MISS  HAZEL  EPPERSON. 
DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 
y2  cup  butter,      2  cups  sugar,      yolks  of  4  eggs,      y2  teaspoon  salt,      1  cup 
milk,       2  2-3  cups  flour,       5  teaspoons  baking  powder,       whites  of  4   eggs, 
4  sqs.  chocolate,      %  teaspoon  vanilla.    Method:  Cream  the  butter,  add  grad- 
ually one-half  of  sugar,   then  beat  the  yolks  of  eggs    until  thick  and    lemon 
color.  Add  gradually  remaining  part  of  sugar.  Combine  mixture  and  add  al- 
ternate milk  and  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  salt.  Then 
add  white  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Add  chocolate.  Bake  45  minutes. 

Cooked  Frosting 

1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  water,  1  egg  white,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Method: 
Boil  sugar  and  water  without  stirring  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Pour  slowly 
over  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Beat  until  holds  shape  when  dropped  from 
spoon.  Flavor  and  spread  on  cake.  AUDREY  HONNOLD. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  V2  cup  butter,  y2  cup  cocoa,  y2  cup  sour  milk, 
%  cup  hot  water,  2  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
milk. 

Icing" — 2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  y2  cup  butter,  y>  box  co- 
coanut.  Cook  until  it  forms  a  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water. 

LIDA  HENRY. 
DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 
Part  1 — 1  cup  granulated  sugar,      2  table  spoons  cocoa,      enough  water 
to  let  boil  good  and  form  a  syrup.  Let  cool. 

Part  2 — 1  cup  dark  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  eggs,  1 
cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  flour,  a  dash  of  cinnamon  and 
allspice,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  eggs,  then  soda 
dissolved  in  sour  milk,  then  flour.  Beat  well  and  add  part  1.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven.  MRS.  ESTHER  JONES. 

BURNT  SUGAR  CAKE 
Take  y2  cup  sugar  and  burn,  then  put  in  %  cup  boiling  water,  let  boil 
until  syrups.  Let  cool.    Cake  Part — 1  cup  sugar,      y2  cup  butter,      1  cup  cold 
water,      iy2  cups  flour,      1  teaspoon  soda.    Add  burnt  syrup  last  to  cake. 

MRS.  ETHEL  PHIPPS. 
SAUCE  FOR  STALE  CAKE 
1  cup  boiling  water,       y2  cup  sugar,       1  tablespoon  flour,       pinch  salt, 
flavoring  and  nutmeg.      •  RILLA  OSBORNE. 

Page  9 


BURNT  SUGAR  CAKE 

Burn  Vfe  cup  sugar,  \t>  cup  water  boil  to  syrup,  lVfe  cups  sugar,  2-3 
cup  butter  (creamed),  3  egg  yolks,  1  cup  water,  3  cups  flour  sifted  6 
times,  add  1  teaspoon  soda  and  sift  again,  add  beaten  egg  whites. 

Icing — 1  tablespoon  burnt  sugar,  1%  cups  sugar,  butter  size  of  egg, 
xk,  cup  cream.    Cook  until  forms  soft  ball  in  water.  Beat. 

MRS.  FRED  W I  ELAND. 
BURNT  SUGAR  CAKE 
Burn  %  cup  sugar,  pour  %  cup  boiling  water  over  this  and  boil  to  a 
thick  syrup.  1%  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  1  cup  cold  water,  1  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  water,  3  eggs,  3  cups  flour.  Cream  sugar  and  butter 
add  cold  water  and  soda,  then  the  well  beaten  eggs  and  flour,  beat  well,  then 
add  the  burnt  sugar  and  beat  again,  add  a  cup  of  nut  meats  if  desired. 

Icing — To  the  burnt  sugar  left  in  the  cooker  and  spoon  add  1  cup  gran- 
ulated sugar,  1  cup  thick  cream.  Cook  to  a  soft  ball  tested  in  cold  water. 
Beat  hard  for  several  minutes.  ANNA  MAY  SWICKARD. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Take  S  level  teaspoons  cocoa  put  in  pan  with  yolk  of  1  egg,     2  teaspoons 
sugar,       %  cup  milk,  mix  all  together  and  scald  on  stove,  then  be  sure  it  is 
cold  before  adding.    1%  cups  sugar,      %  cup  butter  or  lard.      1  egg,      %  cup 
milk,      2  cups  flour,       1  teaspoon  soda,      1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

MRS.   ELLA  REDMON. 
CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
1%  cup  sugar,      G  whites  eggs,       1%  cup  butter,       %  cup  milk,      2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,       3  cups  flour,       1%   cake  chocolate,       1  cup  sugar, 
yolk  of  1  egg,      %  cup  milk,  mix  all  together,  add  butter  size  of  walnut.  Cook 
until  forms  a  lump  in  water.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  then  spread. 

MRS.  ELIZA  EVINGER. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar,  2%  cups  flour,  3  level  tablespoons  lard,  2  teaspoons 
cinnamon,       1  teaspoon  cloves,       3  tablespoons  cocoa,       1-3  box  raisins,       2 

•  tips  unsweetened  apple  sauce   (not  too  wet),       2  level  teaspoons  soda  dis- 
solved in  the  apple  sauce  last  and  beat  well. 

Icing — 1  cup  pulverized  sugar.  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter.  3  teaspoons 
cocoa,  3  tablespoons  cold  coffee.  Work  smooth  and  spread  when  cake  is 
cold.  MRS.  WINIFRED  McCORD. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar,  3  rounded  tablespoons  butter.  2Vfe  cups  flour.  1  level 
i. a  spoon    salt,       2    teaspoons  cocoa,       2    teaspoons  cinnamon.       1    teaspoon 

•  Loves,       1   cup  raisins,       2  cups  unsweetened    apple   sauce   stewed   dry,       t 
level  teaspoons  soda  in  sauce.     Stir  together.  Add  l  cup  nut  meats  if  desired. 

MRS.   J.   H.  WINN. 
APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 
1  cup  sugar.       scant   Vfe  cup  butter  creamed  together,       1   cup  unsweet- 
ened apple  sauce,       2   cups   flour,       1    teaspoon    cinnamon,       2   tablespoons 
cocoa,      l  teaspoon  baking  powder,      l  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  In  one  table- 
spoon of  hot  water.      Vfe  cup  nuts.      1  cup  raisins  may  be  added. 

DOLLIE  McCALLISTER. 
JELLT  ROLL 

3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  1  tablespoon  milk,  %  teaspoon 
salt,       1  teaspoon  baking  powder.       1  tablespoon  melted  butter,       nutmeg. 

MRS.  CHAS.  KIRCHNER. 


Page  10 


JELLY  ROLL 

1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  well  beaten  together,  add  2  tablespoons  water. 
Mix  1%  teaspoon  baking  powder  with  \y2  cups  flour,  add  to  eggs  and  sugar. 
Do  not  stir  much  after  adding  flour.  Flavor  with  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  or  va- 
nilla. Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done  spread  on  jelly  and  roll  it. 

MRS.  W.  T.  ZINK. 
APFLE  CAKES 

2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  1  scant  tablespoon  cottoline  melted.  Mix  and  pour  into  two 
greased  Washington  pie  plates  and  put  the  apples  on  top  as  thick  as  possible. 
If  the  slices  will  stand  up,  so  much  the  better.  Apples  are  pared,  cut  in  eights, 
and  these  eights  again  divided  into  two  or  three  sections.  Sprinkle  with  about 
two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  bake  for  half  an  hour  or  until  done.  Serve  hot. 

ZELMA  NAY. 
CARAMEL  NUT  FROSTING 
Put  I1/*  cups  brown  sugar,  %  cup  granulated  sugar,  %  cup  boiling 
water  in  sauce  pan  and  bcil  without  stirring  till  it  will  spin  a  hair.  Pour 
slowly  on  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  beating  constantly  with  egg  beater.  Re- 
move beater  and  beat  with  spoon  till  cool.  Then  set  sauce  pan  in  another  pan 
c»v  hot  water,  cook,  stirring  constantly  till  it  becomes  slightly  granulated 
around  sides  of  pan.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  till  mixture  will  hold  its 
shape.  Add  vanilla  and  1  cup  nut  meats.  Spread  on  cake. 

MELISSA  WILHOIT. 
CARMEN  ICING 
2  tablespoons  granulated  sugar  in  pan  and  burn  until  a  golden  brown, 
then  add  y2  cup  hot  water,  let  boil  until  a  thick  syrup.  Add  2  cups  sugar, 
2-3  cup  cream,  1  tablespoon  butter.  Stir  and  mix  thoroughly.  Stir  while 
cooking.  Cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  water.  Beat  until 
thick  enough  and  spread.  MRS.  B.  E.  DAVIS. 

BOILED   CAKE   ICING 
Place  in  double  toiler  1  scant  cup  sugar,      4  tablespoons  water,      white 
of  1  egg.     Beat  with  egg  beater  for  7  minutes.  Remove  and  beat  1  minute. 

FLOSSIE  SLATER. 
BOILED  ICING  (Witlicut  Egg  Whites) 
1%  cup  granulated  sugar,  2-3  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Put  sugar  and  milk  in  a  pan  and  cook  without  stirring  until 
it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Put  flour  in  a  bowl  and  just  before  syrup 
reaches  soft  ball  stage,  pour  a  little  over  the  flour  to  form  a  smooth  paste. 
When  syrup  is  clone  poir  other  mixture.  Let  cool  and  beat  until  creamy. 

MRS.  ETHEL  PHIPPS. 
EGG  FROSTING  FOR  CAKE 
Yolkes  of  two  eggs  beaten   well,   add    y2   cup  milk.  Let  this   come   to  a 
boil.  Gradually  add  1  cup  sugar,  a  small  lump  butter.  Cook  until  it  makes 
a  soft  ball  in  water.  Flavor  to  taste.  Cocoanut  may  be  added. 

HELEN  COVEY. 
WALNUT  MAPLE  CAKE 
2-°,  cup  I  utter,  4  egg?,  2  2-3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  cup  milk,  %  teaspoon  salt, 
i  cup  chopped  walnut  meats.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  egg  yolks  and 
milk,  ther  add  flcir  sifted  3  times  with  baking  powder.  Add  vanilla,  salt  and 
walnuts.  Lastly  w'hites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  Angel  Food  cake  pan 
45  mlni'.t'-s.  MRS.  B.  E.  DAVIS. 

Page  II 


' 


CABAMEL  CAKE 

%  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  (yolks),  2%  cups  flour,  3 
lablespoons  caramel,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2 
eggs  (whites),  1  cup  water.  Cream  the  butter  and  add  the  sugar,  the 
yolks  of  the  egg,  and  2  cups  of  the  flour.  Beat  this  5  minutes,  then  add  the 
caramel,  vanilla  and  other  V-  cup  flour  to  which  has  been  added  to  the  baking 
poWder.  Fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  A.  0.  NAT. 
COCOA  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  egg  yolk,  Vfe  cup  cocoa,  1  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  \k  cup  boiling  water,  %  cup  sour  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,      1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

MRS.  BERTHA  BROWN,  313  Madison  St.  Charleston.   111. 

WHITE  (AKE 

%  cup  butter,  2  heaping  cups  sugar,  cream  butter  and  sugar  until 
perfectly  white,  add  %  cup  water,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  3  cups  flour, 
whites  of  7  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Makes  2 
large  layers.  ESTHER   WILHOIT. 

PRINK   CAKE 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2  tespoons  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
i  cup  water,  salt,  IY2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  mashed  prunes,  2  eggs,  2 
cups  sifted  flour.     Mix  as  you  would  any  cake  and  bake  in  slow  oven  1  hour. 

MRS.  WILLIS  BOYER,  Ashmore,  111. 
FIVE  MINUTE  (AKE 

2  cups  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  (whites),  %  cup  butter.  1  cup 
milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavoring.  Place  all  together  in  mixing 
bowl  and  beat  5  minutes.  May  be  baked  solid  or  in  layers.  For  dark  cake  add 
yolks  of  eggs  and  2  heaping  teaspoons  cocoa.  FRANCES  KESTER. 

INEXPENSIVE  (AKE 

1  cup  sugar,  iy2  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  2  unbeaten 
whites  of  eggs  in  mixing  cup.  Fill  to  half  with  butter  and  fill  full  with  milk. 
Add  sugar,  flour  and  baking  powder.  Beat  ">  minutes. 

MISS  K.  BISHOP. 

SUNSHINE  (AKE 

G  eggs,  1  cup  sugar  sifted  twice,  %  cup  pastry  flour  sifted  twice,  then 
measure  and  sift  f>  times,  V2  teaspoon  cream  tartar.  Beat  yolkes  stiff  as 
possible  after  adding  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  whites  about  half  stiff  enough. 
Add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  stiff.  Fold  in  sugar  lightly,  then  the  yolks, 
flour  and  flavoring.  Bake  in  an  ungreased  pan  30  minutes  and  in  a  moderate 
oven.  MRS.  BRUCE  GILDERSLEEVE. 

ORANGE  (AKE 

xh  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  G  eggs  (whites),  3  cups 
flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream  butter,  add 
Migar  gradually.  Add  milk  and  flour.  The  flour  and  baking  powder  should 
be  sifted  together  several  times.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  add 
flavoring.  Bake  in  layers  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Orange  Icing — 1  egg  yolk,  grated  rind  of  1  orange,  4  tablespoons  of 
orange  juice,  2  tablespoons  butter.  Mix  these  ingredients  well  and  add 
powdered  sugar  until  the  mixture  is  thick  enough  to  spread  on  the  cake. 

MRS.  A.  J.  MOFFETT. 


Page  12 


BURNT  CARAMEL  CAKE 

Burn  yz  cup  sugar  until  quite  brown,  add  y2  cup  boiling  water  and  boil 
until  syrup  forms.  Cool.  Cream  \y2  cups  sugar  and  2-3  cup  butter.  Beat  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  1  cup  water  and  burnt  sugar  to  the  butter.  Sift  3  cups  flour  6 
times,  divide  add  %  and  beat.  Sift  1  teaspoon  soda  in  rest  of  flour  4  times. 
Add  and  beat  well.  Fold  in  whites  of  eggs. 

Filling — 1  tablespoon  burnt  syrup,  1%  cups  sugar,  2-3  cups  cream, 
lump  of  butter.  FLOSSIE  SLATER. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 

Part  1 — 1  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  cocoa,  1  cup  sweet  milk.  Cook  until 
thick,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

Part  2 — y2  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  creamed,  1  teaspoon  soda  in  3 
tablespoons  boiling  water  added  to  %  cup  sour  milk,  2  well  beaten  eggs, 
*4  teaspoon  salt. 

Then  add  part  one.  2  cups  Swansdown  flourv  Beat.  Bake  in  2  layers  in  mod- 
erate oven  25  minutes.  NORA  R.  MORRIS. 
PHILADELPHIA  RED  CAKE 

1%  cups  sugar,  3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  cocoa,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  y2 
cup  butter,  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Cream  the  butter  and  add 
sugar,  three  egg  yolks,  and  the  flour.  Dissolve  the  cocoa  and  soda  in  %  cup 
boiling  water  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Fold  in  two  well  beaten  egg  whites 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  HARLEY  LEVEL,  407  Madison  St.  Charleston,  111. 


Page  13 


Page  14 


Page  15 


COOKIES 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

Vfe  cup  butter,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  3  cups  rolled  oats,  1  egg,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla,  \fc  cup  fat,  Vfe  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  soda,  % 
cup  boiling  water,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  each  of  raisins  and  nuts,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon.  Mix  thoroughly  the  first  5  articles,  then  pour  boiling 
water  over  the  fat  and  add  to  mixture.  Mix  other  ingredients  together  and 
add  to  mixture.  Drop  a  teaspoonful  on  greased  baking  tin  and  bake  15  or  20 
minutes.  MRS.  W.  S.  WILEY. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

1  cup  dark  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  2 
level  teaspoons  cinnamon,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  rolled  oats,  1  cup  nuts. 
I  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Drop  by 
spoonsful.  FLOSSIE  SLATER. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 
%  cup  butter,       %  cup  lard,       1*&  cups  granulated  sugar,       4  hands  of 
oatmeal,       1    cup    raisins,       3    eggs    (well    beaten),       1    teaspoon    soda,    10 
tablespoons  sweet  milk,       2%  cups  flour,       *£   teaspoon  salt.     Mix  like  for 
making  cake  and  drop  in  dabs  in  greased  pans. 

MRS.  ELIZABETH  CLARK. 
OATMEAL  COOKIES 
%  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  oats,  % 
cup  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  cup  chopped  nuts.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs 
and  vanilla  and  beat  well.  Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  three  times. 
Add  alternately  with  the  milk.  Add  the  oats  and  nuts.  Drop  by  teaspoon- 
tuls  on  greased  tin.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  (Quaker's  minute  oats  are 
best  to  use).  MARY  FORSTER. 

OAT  MEAL  DROP  COOKIES 
4  tablespoons  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  milk,  ll/2  cups  flour, 
%  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice.  4 
tablespoons  lard,  1  egg,  1%  cups  rolled  oats,  1  cup  nut  meats,  % 
teaspoon  salt.  Cream  butter  and  lard,  add  sugar  gradually,  add  egg.  milk, 
(.ats,  then  soda  and  spices  sifted  with  flour.  Drop  from  spoon  on  battered 
sheet  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  MRS.  G.  W.  WALTON. 

OATMEAL  RAISIN   COOKIES 

2  cups  rolled  oats,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  shortening. 
1  cup  raisins  or  currants,  2  eggs,  1  scant  teaspoon  soda  in  4  tablespoons 
sweet  milk,  1  beaping  teaspoon  cinnamon,  pinch  salt,  few  drops  vanil- 
la. Mix  in  order  named.  Form  in  balls  size  of  walnuts.  Place  in  greased 
baking  tin   1  inch  apart.  Bake  10  to  16  minutes  in   moderate  quick  oven. 

SUSAN   BENNETT. 

FROSTED  CREAMS 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  cold  cooked  coffee,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  V& 
<  up  butter,  1  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  ginger.  %  cup  lard,  yolk  2 
eggs,  2  teaspoons  soda.  Sift  in  enough  flour  to  make  stiff  dough.  Add 
in  order  given.  Drop  in  ungreascd  tin. 

Frosting — Whites  of  2  eggs,  V/2  cups  sugar,  %  cup  water,  flav- 
oring. Boil  sugar  and  water  to  a  syrup.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff.  Beat  in 
syrup.  MRS.  O.  O.  BERRY. 

Page  1 6 


GINGER  SNAPS 

iy2  cups  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  molasses,  3  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  enough  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Mix  in  order  given.  Roll  as  thinly  as  possible,  shape 
with  a  round  cutter,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  RAY  DUNN. 
CHOCOLATE  COOKIES 

1  cup   sugar,       2   eggs,        y/2    cup   milk,       1   cup   nuts,        y2    cup   melted 

1  utter,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  flour,  3  sqs.  chocolate,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Mix  the  melted  butter  with  the  sugar.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  and 
melted  chocolate  to  this.  Add  soda  to  the  milk  and  then  add  the  milk  and 
\fa  of  the  flour  to  the  sugar  and  eggs.  Mix  well.  Add  the  nuts  With  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour.  Add  beaten  whites  and  vanilla,  and  beat  well.  Drop 
from  the  spoon  to  bake  on  buttered  baking  sheets.  May  be  frosted  with 
fudge  irosting.   (Pearl  Bailey's  Cook  Book.)  PAULINE  BABER. 

COOKIES 
G  cups  flour,  V2  cup  butter,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  brown  sugar, 
y2  cup  lard,  y2  cup  milk,  1  cup  granulated  svugar,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  2  egg's.  Put  all  together  dry,  then  work  in  butter  and  lard  with 
fork.  Mrke  a  hole  and  prur  in  a  little  of  milk  and  egg  at  a  time.  Mix  well 
flavor  with  vanilla  or  nutmeg,  roll  very  thin,  cut  and  bake. 

MRS.  C.  R.  BRADFORD. 
BUTTERSCOTCH  COOKIES 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  ?A/2  cups  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon soda,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  cup 
chopped  nut  meats,  or  shredded  cocoanut.  Mix  and  form  in  rolls,  let  stand 
until  morning,  slice  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  J.  H.  WILLIAMS,  Edgar,   111. 
COFFEE  COOKIES 
2  cups  brown  sugar,       1  cup  butter,       1  cup  raisins,       1  cup  coffee,       3 
cups    flour,       2    eggs,       1    teaspoon    soda,       2    teaspoons    baking    powder, 
spices  and  nuts  to  suit.  Drop  with  spoon  on  greased  tins.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven.  MRS.  WILLIS  McLAIN,  Ashmore,  111. 

HERMIT  COOKIES 

1  cup  butter,       1%  cup  brown  sugar,      3  eggs,       1  cup  seedless  raisins, 

2  cups  nut  meats,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
y2  teaspoon  cloves,  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  y2  cup  hot 
water.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  eggs  well  beaten,  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  flour  sifted  with  spices  and  salt,  nuts  and  raisins.  Drop  from  spoon 
on  greased  pan  and  bake  in   moderate  oven.  ZENOBIA  SHAVER. 

DROWN  COOKIES 

2  cups  white  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  creamed,  1  cup  New  Orleans 
molasses,  1  cup  cold  coffee,  1  teaspoon  soda,  y2  teaspoon  ginger,  1 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  cloves,  nutmeg,  flour  enough  to  roll 
out.  <hn.     Mix.  Lot  stand  over  night.  \\.  A.  PIXNELL. 

FIG  COOKIES 
1  cup  butler  or  lard,       2  cups  sugar,       2  eggs,       1  cup  milk,       2  tea-  L 

srt.-im"  soda.       4  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,       5  cups  flour. 

JFillin^— 1  cup  raisins  chopped,  y2  cup  iigs,  1  cup  water,  %  cup 
sugar,  Vfe  teaspoons  flour.  Cook  until  it  forms  a  paste.  Remove  from 
Lre  ami  add  1  cup  chopped  nuts.  MRS.  LELAXD  HONNOLD. 

Page  17 


4 


H1.IH)  COOKIES 

1  egg,       1  cup   sugar,        %    cup   shortening,        %   cup   sweet   milk,       2% 
nips  flour,     1  teaspoon  flavor.     1  teaspoon  soda,      2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar, 
add  soda  and  tartar  with  flour.  Roll  thin.  Place  filling  between  two  cookies. 
Filling — Cook    until    thick    I    cup    raisins    or    figs,        %    cup    sugar,        v 
(  op  i  «>ld   water.       1  teaspoon  flour.     Let  cool  before  using. 

BERTHA  McKNIOHT. 
LI  DA  HBNRY. 
SUGAR  COOKIES 

1  cups  sugar,  1  cup  lard.  1  cup  buttermilk.  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder  in  the  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda  in  milk,  1  teaspoon  flav- 
oring MRS.  J.  Y.  WILHOIT. 

DEOP  COOKIES 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sour  milk  or  cream,  *£  cup  butter.  3 
eggs,  3  cups  flour.  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  level  teaspoon  soda, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  Vfc  teaspoon  cloves,  14  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1 
teaspoon  vainlla,      1  cup  raisins,      %  cup  nuts.  (Bruce's  Mother's  recipe). 

MRS.  BRUCE  REDMAN. 

G1NGEB  COOKIES 

2  cups  molasses,  1  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  2  teaspoons 
soda  dissolved  in  4  tablespoons  boiling  coffee.  Add  enough  flour  to  make 
quite  stilt.  MRS.  ALVA   NAY. 

GDfGEB  COOKIES 
1  cup  sugar.       1  cup  molasses,       y2   cup  lard,       2  eggs,       2  teaspoons 
ginger,        1   teaspoon   allspice,        1   teaspoon   cinnamon,        1    tablespoon    soda 
dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  boiling  water.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

ALICE  MOODY. 
MOLASSES  COOKIES 
1  cup  sugar,       1  cup  molasses.       1  cup  butter  or  lard,       1  tablespoon 
cinnamon,       1    tablespoon    ginger,        1    teaspoon   soda   dissolved    in    3    table- 
spoons hot  water.     Flour  enough  to  make  stiff.  LUCY  S.  NEAL. 

COCOA  DBOP  CAKES 

4  tablespoons  shortening,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  %  cup  milk,  1% 
CUDS  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  Vfe  cup  cocoa,  %  teaspoon  salt. 
1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract.  Half  fill  greased  muffin  tins  with  batter  and 
Bake    In   moderate  oven    about    2o  minutes. 

SCOTCH  TOOK IKS 
4    cups    sugar,        lM-j    cups    butter    or    lard,        6    eggs.        l1^    tablespoons 
soda,        Vz    pint   sorghum   molasses.        S    cups    llour,        y2    tablespoon    ginger. 
Add  cocoa  if  desired.  Spread  beaten  egg  on  top  before  baking. 

.MRS.  CLAYTON    MARKS. 

SUGAR  COOKIES 

1  cup  lard.  I  cups  sugar.  1  cup  milk.  4  or  .">  cups  flour.  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  eggs.  Cream  sugar  and 
lard,  add  eggs  slightly  beaten,  add  milk  and  flour  with  baking  powder. 
add  to  flour,  flavor.  Make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  on  slightly  floured  board 
'.,    inch  thick.  Cut  with  cookie  cutter,   Rake  in   moderate  oven  10  minutes. 

ELIZABETH  SEXTON. 
COOKIES 

sour   cream,       1    teaspoon    soda, 
bake.  MRS.  COMSTOCK. 


»  uunir.s 
1    cup    sugar.        1    cup    lard.        2-3    cup 
y-olkJ  of  2  eggs,       nutmeg.     Roll  thin   and 


Page  18 


DROP  CREAM  COFFEE  COOKIES 

2  eggs,  1  cup  sorghum  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  cold  strong 
coffee,      1  cup  butter  and  lard,      1  teaspoon  cinnamon,      1  teaspoon  ginger, 

2  teaspoons  soda.  Cream  sugar  with  butter  and  lard.  Dissolve  soda  in  cof- 
fee. Add  sorghum  and  enough  flour,  ginger  and  cinnamon  sifted  in  to  make 
batter  stiff  enough  to  drop  from  a  teaspoon.  Drop  on  ungreased  pan.  Ice 
with  boiled  icing.  MRS.  J.  E.  H1TE. 

COOKIES  (Frosted  Creams) 
1  cup  lard  and  butter  mixed,      1  cup  sugar,      1  cup  dark  molasses,       1 
cup  cold  coffee,      2  teaspoons  soda  in  coffee,       1  teaspoon  each  ginger  and 
cinnamon,       2  egg  yolks,       enough  flour  to  drop  stiff. 

Icing — 2  cups  sugar,  %  cup  water.  Boil  and  pour  on  whites  of  2 
eggs.  GERTRUDE   NAY. 

SAND  TARTS   (Cookies) 
1  cup  butter    (part  lard),       iy2   cup  sugar,       3   well   beaten   egg  yolks, 

3  well  beaten  egg  whites,  1  tablespoon  water,  1  teaspoon  taking  pow- 
der,      flour  to  make  stiff.  MISS  LENA  HITE. 

SAND  TARTS 
%  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1%  cups  flour,  white  1  egg, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  "Blanched  almonds"  1  tablespoon  sugar, 
x/4  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  egg 
well  beaten,  then  add  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder.  Chill.  Toss 
one  half  mixture  on  a  floured  board  and  roll  one  eighth  inch  thick.  Brush 
over  with  white  of  egg  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  mixed  with  cinnamon.  Split 
almonds  and  place  half  on  each.  Place  on  a  buttered  sheet,  and  bake  8 
minutes  in  slow  oven.  (Malleable  Steel  Range  Co.)  B.  H.  PINNELL, 

DELICIOUS  COOKIES 
5  cups  flour,  4  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  4  eggs  well  beaten, 
1  tablespoon  soda,  1  tablespoon  cream  of  tartar.  Cream  sugar  and  but- 
ter. Add  eggs,  then  flour,  cream  of  tartar  and  soda.  Make  into  a  loaf  at 
evening.  It  will  rise  over  night  and  can  be  sliced  and  baked  as  needed 
for  warm  cookies  at  each  meal.     One-half  the  recipe  makes  a  fair  sized  loaf. 

MRS.  ESTHER  JONES. 
GRANDMA'S   COOKIES 
1   cup   light  brown   sugar,       1   cup  granulated   sugar,       1  level   cup   of 
butter,       1   teaspoon   nutmeg,       1   teaspoon   baking   powder,       1    level    tea- 
spoon   soda    dissolved    in    3    tablespoons   boiling    water,        3    eggs,        1    qt. 
flour.     Mix  into  soft  dough,  roll  thin,  cut  and  t  ake  in  hot  oven. 

MRS.  OSCAR  M.  GILBERT,  Princeton,  Ind. 
EGG  COOKIES 
1  cup  butter,       4  cups  flour,       1%  cups  sugar,       2  eggs,       y2  teaspoon 
soda  in  a  little  water.     Rub  butter  and  flour  together.  Stir   sugar  in   eggs 
before  mixing.  Roll  thin,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  raisins.  Then  bake. 

LUCY  S.  NEAL. 
DOUGHNUTS 

3  eggs,  1  heaping  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sour  cream,  4  cups  flour, 
1  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  cinnamon,  y2  scant  teaspoon  soda,  2  tea- 
spcons  baking  powder.  LUCY  S.  >'E  m^. 

DOUGHNUTS 
2    eggs,        1    cup    sugar,        2    tablespoons    (full)    melted    butter,        pinch 
of    salt,        iy2    cups    flour,        2    teaspoons    baking    powder    sifted    in    flour. 
Flavor  with  mace.  MRS.  O.  W.  VANDEVANTER. 

Page  19 


DOUGHNUTS  (S.mir  Milk) 
2  eggs,  1  qt.  flour,  1  Clip  sugar,  1  nip  BOUT  milk.  1  teaspoon 
si  da.  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  V£  teaspoon  cinnamon.  vanilla.  Put  the  flour,  cinnamon, 
baking  powder,  and  sugar  into  a  bowl.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  one  tablespoon 
c*.  hot  water.  Add  to  the  sour  milk  and  then  add  the  malted  batter.  Seal 
the  eggs  until  light  and  add  to  the  milk.  Add  the  wet  ingredients  to  the 
dry.  Roll  out  to  S  inch  thickness.  Cut  and  fry  in  deep  tat.  Do  not  put 
in  more  than  five  doughnuts  at  a  time  or  the  fat  will  be  cooled  too  much. 
Lei  the  fat  reheat  between  fryings.  Turn  the  doughnuts  while  frying. 
Drain  on   plain   paper.   .Makes  3  dozen  doughnuts.  DELILAH  NAY. 

MY   FAY0R1TE   DOUGH N I  TS 
1    cup    granulated    sugar,        1    cup    8W<  el    milk,        4    tablespoons    melted 
hitter.       2  eggs   well    beaten,       3   cups   flour  sifted   with   8   teaspoons   baking 
powder,        Vfe    teaspoon    salt,        1    teaspoon    vanilla.    Add    sufficient    flour    to 
roll  out,  fry  in  plenty  of  hot  lard  and  sugar  while  warm. 

.MRS.    I.  E.   NAY 
DOUGHNUTS   (That  Absorb  Little  Fat) 
iy2    cup    sugar.        2    teaspoons    butter.        2    eggs,        1    cup    hot    riced    po- 
tatoes,       2-3    cup    milk,        5    cups    flour,        4    tablespoons    baking    powder. 
1    teaspoon   salt.        1    teaspoon   cinnamon,        V>    teaspoon   nutmeg. 

IDA  SMITH. 
FRUIT  HOOKIES 
::  cups  brown  sugar,     1  cup  butter,     1  cup  sour  milk  with  1  teaspoon   soda, 
4     eggs     well     beaten,         1    teaspoon    chnes,         2     teaspoons    cinnamon.         1 
teaspoon    nutmeg.        2    cups    seeded    raisins,        enough    flour    to    make    a    hat- 
ter,  that    will   drop  off  a   spoon.   Bake   in   quick  oven. 

MRS.  J.  B.  CORNWHLL. 
BROWN  NUT  COOKIE8 
1V2   cups   brown   sugar,       1  cup   melted    1  utter  or  lard,       3   eggs   beaten 
well.        1    teaspoon    soda   in    V4    cup    hot    water,       2M>    cups    flour,        1    tea- 
spoon   Cinnamon,        %    CUp    raisins,        1    cup    nits,        'i     teaspoon    salt.      Drop 
in   a   well   greased    pan   and    bake.  MRS.   GEO.    NAY. 

(ItKAM    PUFFS 
PUffs      1    cup    water,        4    cup    butter.        while    boiling    add    1    cup    l  lour, 
stir    till    smooth,    then    cool.     Add    3    eggs   not    beaten,    stir    smooth,    drop    on 
pan,  Or    into   gem    bakers,    bake    30    minute-.    When    cold,    cut    pulls    open    and 
till    with  cream.   Makes   18. 

Cream    for    filling      V->    CUB    sugar,        i    heaping    teaspoons    flour.         1    egg 
pour  Into   1   CUP  boiling   milk,   flavor  to  tasle.  1TA    BRISCOE 

BANGOR    BROWNIES    (Cookies) 

t  mi      Baker's  chocolate.       i  eggs,      2  cups  sugar.      1   cup  butter,     14 

teaspoon  I  aklng  powder.  2  very  scant  cups  flour,  Vj  teaspoon  salt.  2 
.tips  nut   meal-.  Cream    batter  and   sugar.   Add   remaining   ingredients.   Spread 

thinly  on  buttered  pan.  Bake.  Cut  In  sou.  or  strips  in  pan  while  warm. 

MRS.  JOHN  HUTCHISON. 
PECAN  KACAROON8 

White   Of    1    egg.         1    cup    pecans,         1    uin    brown    sugar.         ',     teaspoon 
Bait.       Beat     while    of    egg    until     stiff,    gradually     add     while    beating,     sugar. 

1  old  in  nuts  [lncly  chopped,  sprinkle  with  BUgar,  Drop  from  Up  of  spoon, 
one  inch  apart  on  0  buttered  sheet  and  bake  In  moderat  oven  until  del- 
icately 1  rbwned.  MRS    1.  s.  PINNELL,  New  Haven,  ill. 

'  20 


CREAM  PUFFS 

%  cup  water,  3  tablespoons  vegetable  oil,  1  tablespoon  butter,  % 
cup  flour,  2  eggs,  14  teaspoon  salt.  Method:  Mix  the  water  and  fat 
and  heat  mixture  till  water  boils.  Add  all  the  flour  and  salt  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Stir  and  cook  until  ingredients  are  well  blended  and  the 
paste  does  not  stick  to  the  sides  of  the  pan.  While  the  mixture  is  hot,  add 
the  eggs  unbeaten,  one  at  a  time.  Beat  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Drop  from 
tablespoon  on  oil  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  25  to  30  min- 
utes. When  cool  slit  one  side  open  and  fill  with  cream  filling  or  whipped 
cream. 

Cream  filling  for  Cream  Puffs — V2  cup  flour,  %  cup  sugar,  2  cups 
scalded  milk,  y2  tablespoon  butter,  1  egg,  \i  teaspoon  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Method:  Mix  flour  and  sugar  and  slowly  add  hot  milk. 
Pour  into  double  boiler  and  cook  20  minutes.  Remove  from  heat.  Beat  the 
egg  and  add  with  the  butter  to  flour  and  milk  mixture.  Return  to  fire 
and  cook  over  water  till  egg  is  coagulated.  Add  salt.  Cool  and  add  flav- 
oring. (Domestic  Science  Cook  Book).  DELILAH  NAY. 

VANILLA  WAFERS 

1-3  cup  t  utter  and  lard,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  V±  cup  milk,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla,  2  cups  flour,  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
:2  Leaspoon  salt.  Cream  lard  and  butter,  add  sugar  while  beating  con- 
stantly. Add  egg  well  beaten,  also  milk  and  vanilla.  Mix  and  sift  flour, 
baking  powder,  and  salt  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Chill.  Put  *4  of  whole 
mixture  on  board  and  pat  and  roll  as  thinly  as  possible.  Place  in  pan 
(buttered)    and   bake   in   moderate   oven.  MAMIE    HOXX. 

LEMON  QUEENS 

y2  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  .lemon  juice,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 
Method:  Cream  the  butter.  Add  the  sugar,  and  eggs  one  at  a  time  with- 
out beating.  Beat  mixture  hard  after  adding  each  egg.  Add  flour,  baking 
powder  and  lemon  juice.  Bake  25  minutes  in  small  muffin  pan.  Frost  with 
orange  icing. 

Orange  Icing — 2  egg  yolks,  2  cups  powdered  sugar,  5  tablespoons 
orange  juice,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  1  tablespoon  grated  orange  rind. 
Method:  Mix  orange  and  lemon  juice  with  rind  and  let  stand  10  minutes, 
then  strain  it.  Add  to  egg  yolks,  slowly  add  powdered  sugar,  and  beat  until 
all  is  added  and  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread. 

COCOA  COCOANUT  MERINGUES 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  y2  cup  powdered  sugar, 
1  cup  shredded  cocoanut,  y2  cup  granulated  sugar,  y2  teaspoonful  vin- 
egar, 2  teaspoonfuls  cocoa.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  gradually 
beating  in  rugar.  Beat  ten  minutes  with  egg  beater.  Add  vinegar  and  vanil- 
la. Cut  and  fold  in  cocoa  and  cocoanut.  Drop  from  teaspoon  on  paper  and 
Lake    n  a  ver\   slow  oven  from  45  to  GO  minutes. 

MRS.  FRANK  ANDERSON. 


Page  21 


Page  22 


Page  23 


CONFECTIONS 


FUDGE 

2  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  corn  syrup.  2  cups  milk,  2  oz.  (tbsp) 
chocolate,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cook  until  it  forms 
a  soft  ball  in  water.  When  cool,  teat  it.  (This  tudge  can  be  moulded  into 
any  desired  shape  with  the  fingers,  even  after  it  has  hardened). 

MYRNA  BRADFORD. 
FUDGE 
2  cups  sugar,  2-3  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  light  corn  syrup.  2  oz. 
<  hocolate  or  3  teaspoons  cocoa,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  vanil- 
la. Mix  chocolate  or  cocoa  with  sugar,  add  milk  and  corn  syrup.  Cool  until 
chocolate  and  sugar  are  melted.  Boil,  stirring  occasionally  to  keep  candy 
from  burning,  until  the  fudge  will  form  a  soft  ball  if  dropped  into  cold 
water,  or  until  temperature  of  234  degrees  Fahrenheit  is  reached.  Remove 
candy  from  stove,  add  butter,  without  stirring.  Set  aside  and  allow  to  cool 
until  it  is  lukewarm,  110  degrees  Fahrenheit.  Add  vanilla  and  stir  until 
ludge  loses  its  shiny  looks  and  until  a  small  amount  dropped  from  the 
spoon  will  hold  its  shape.  Pour  into  greased  pans.  ZONA  XAY. 

FUDGE 
2  cups  sugar,      y2  cup  butter,       %  cup  cream.       li  cup  Karo  syrup,       2 
sqs.    bitter    chocolate,        1    teaspoon    vanilla,    add    after    cooking.      Leave    on 
stove   three    minutes   after   reaching   boiling    point.    Remove    and    beat    until 
creamy.  MRS.  W.  FITZPATRICK. 

FUDGE 
2  sqs.  bitter  chocolate,       V2  cup  milk,       2   cups  sugar,       1-3    cup   Karo 
syrup,       2   tablespoons   butter.     Put   chocolate    in    pan    and    melt    on    stove, 
remove   pan   and  add   other   ingredients.   Cook   until   it   will   form   soft   ball 
(rather  firm).  Leave  in  pan  until  cold  and  stir  until  it  creams. 

MAMIE  HONN. 
(REAM  FUDGE 
2  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  white  syrup,  1  cup  milk  and  cream, 
pinch  cream  tartar,  2  tablespoons  cocoa.  Mix  sugar  and  cocoa  thoroughly. 
Add  milk  and  cook.  When  mixture  l.oils  add  the  cream  of  tartar  and  syrup. 
Cook  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed.  Remove  from  stove  and  allow  to  cool.  When 
cool   beat   until  creamy.   .Nuts  and   marshmallows  may  be  added    if  desired. 

IRENE  SCOTT. 
(REAM  FUDGE 
2  cups   white  sugar,       1   cup   cream,       1    tablespoon   butter.     Cook    until 
spins    a    thread    when    dropped    from    spoon,    stir    until    cool,    pour    out    and 
cut  in  squares.  SUSAN  BENNETT. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 
2  cups  sugar,       1  cup  cream,       butter  size  of  egg,       2  tablespoons  cocoa. 
Poil  until  it  forma  soft  ball  in  cold  water  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

MRS.  A.  E.  RICHEY. 
DATE  STICKS 
%  measuring  clip  flour,  Vi  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  measuring 
cup  sugar,  1  measuring  cup  chopped  dates.  l  measuring  cup  chopped 
pecans,  pinch  of  salt,  2  eggs  beaten  separately.  Mix  nuts  and  dates,  add 
silted  flour,  sugar,  then  eggs,  whiles  last.  Bake  about  %  of  an  hour  in 
moderate  oven.  Cut   in  strips  and  roll  in   powdered   sugar. 

ANNE  It.  ZIMMERMAN. 


Page  24 


PEANUT  BRITTLE 

1  lb.  (2^  cups)  light  brown  sugar,  8  oz.  corn  syrup,  10  2-3  oz.  pea- 
nuts (raw  Spanish),  pinch  salt,  1-3  teaspoon  soda.  Melt  sugar  and 
syrup.  Put  in  peanuts  and  cook  hard  stirring  constantly.  Cook  till  it  smells 
like  it  is  burning.  This  means  the  peanuts  are  cooked.  Take  from  fire  and 
add  1-3  teaspoon  soda  and  stir  hard.  Pour  out  on  buttered  slab  and  spread 
as  thin  as  possible.  Work  fast  as  it  hardens  quickly.  When  it  hardens  suf- 
ficiently take  knife  and  lift  slab.  Keep  in  air  tight  or  dry,  cool  place  to 
keep  it  brittle.  MAMIE  HOXX. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE 
1%  lbs.  granulated  sugar  (3  cups),  %  lb.  glucose  (scant  cup),  % 
lb.  raw  Spanish  peanuts  (2  full  cups),  2-3  cup  hot  water,  butter  size  of 
egg,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  heaping  teaspoon  soda.  Boil  together  sugar 
glucose  and  water  till  hard  ball  in  water.  Then  butter  and  nuts.  Boil  till 
amber,  only  stirring1  enough  to  keep  nuts  from  sticking.  Then  vanilla  and 
soda.  Beat,  spread  and  pull  out  lightly.  Makes  2*4  lbs. 

MISS  ITA  BRISCOE. 
DATE  LOAF  CANDY 
3  cups  sugar,       1  cup  of  milk,       1  package  dates,       1  cup   nuts.     Boil 
until  forms  a  soft  ball,  teat  until  thickens,  then  pour  on  to  a  towel,  that 
has  teen   wrung  out  of  cold  water,   form   a   loaf,   then   roll   in    towel,    until 
cool,  then  slice.  MARY  E.  BOYER. 

NUGET  CANDY 
2%   cups  white   sugar,       y2   cup  water,       y2   cup   corn   syrup   molasses. 
Cook  until  it  will  form  a  firm  ball  in   cold  water.   Pour  over  whites  of  2 
eggs  beaten  stiff.  Add  nuts  and  flavor  to  taste.  Beat  until  stiff  and  pour  out. 

ONA  ANDREWS. 
NOUGAT 

2  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  white  syrup,  fill  cup  with  boiling  water.  Cook 
until  it  spins  a  thread.  Have  the  white  of  1  egg  beaten  dry,  add  syrup  grad- 
ually, beating  hard.  Set  aside  to  cool,  beating  once  in  a  while.  Add  color- 
ing and  nuts.  MRS.  H.  S.  JUXTGEX. 

DIYINITT 
2%  cups  granulated  sugar,       y2  cup  warm  water,       y2  cup  white  corn 
syrup.     Cook  without  stirring  until  it  threads   a  hair,   then  pour   gradually 
ever  beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Add  Havering.  Beat  until  thick  and  add  1  cup 
cf  nuts.  MRS.  O.  P.  COLSOX. 

SEA  FOAM  CANDY 

2  cups  sigar,  %  cup  corn  syrup,  %  cup  boiling  water,  y2  cup 
chopped  nuts,  3  egg  whites,  V2  teaspoon  vanilla.  Method:  Boil  sugar 
syrup  and  water  until  hard  ball  is  formed  in  cold  water.  Beat  the  eggs 
stiff  and  dry,  then  pour  on  the  syrup  very  gradually,  add  the  nuts  and 
beat  until  creamy.  Spread  \y2  inches  thick  on  a  t  uttered  pan  and  cut  in 
squares.  Instead  oil  putting  on  buttered  pans  it  may  be  beaten  a  little  long- 
er and  dropped  by  spoonfuls  on  oil  paper.  (Domestic  Science  Cook  Book). 

DELILAH  XAY. 
BROWN  CANDY 

3  cups  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  scda,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  nuts. 
Method:  Dissolve  the  soda  in  milk  and  add  to  the  sugar.  Cook  until  will 
form  a  soft  ball  in  water.  Heat  uniil  begins  to  sugar  and  add  nuts. 

MARJORIE  STARK. 

Page  25 


CANDY  (Mexican  KltMi) 
2  cups  medium  brown  sugar,       1  cup  rich  milk,       1  tablespoon   butter. 
Cook  and  stir  as  fudge,  when  cool  add   1  cup  nuts  and   pour  on  board  and 
knead  IS  minutes.  GERTRUDE  NAY. 

KISSES  (Cocoanut) 

1  fresh  cocoanut.  grated,  y>  its  weight  in  powdered  sugar,  whites 
of  2  eggs,  %  teaspoonful  flavoring  extract.  Method:  Grate  the  cocoa- 
nut  and  weigh  it.  Add  the  sugar,  mixing  well.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
very  stiff  and  add  them  to  the  grated  cocoanut  and  sugar.  Beat  the  mass 
hard  for  5  minutes.  Add  the  flavoring  and  drop  in  small  spoonfuls  on  but- 
tered paper.  Dry  in  slow  oven  for  15  minutes.  DELILAH  NAY. 

MEXICAN   (ANDY 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  x/2  cup  cream,  1  tablespoon  (rounded)  butter. 
pinch  of  salt,  2  cups  pecan  meats  (whole).  Stir  the  sugar  and  cream 
until  they  boil,  then  cook  to  a  soft  ball,  (with  some  elasticity).  Add  the 
butter  and  salt,  stir  well,  cool  and  add  1  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Beat  as  you 
would  fudge.  When  it  begins  to  cream  add  the  nut  creams  and  drop  from 
a  spoon  on  an  oiled  platter.  ANNA  NAY  SWICKARD. 

WALNUT  MOLASSES  BARS 
*4  cup  butter,  \i  cup  lard,  %  cup  boiling  water,  3  cups  flour, 
Vfc  teaspoon  ginger,  1-3  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  1-3  teaspoon  cloves, 
V2  cup  brown  sugar,  V2  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  chopped  nuts.  Method:  Pour  water  over  butter  and  lard.  Add  sugar 
and  molasses  mixed  with  soda,  flour,  salt  and  spices.  Roll  14  of  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  in  strips  3%  inches  by  4%  inches.  Sprinkle  with  nut  meats  and 
bake  ten  minutes  in   moderate  oven.  DELILAH  NAY. 

CKACKEIMACK 
2  cups  molasses.  1  cup  brown  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  soda.  Let  molas- 
ses and  sugar  boil  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water.  Re- 
move from  stove  and  add  soda,  then  pour  over  popped  corn,  mixing  and 
mixing.  Dip  hands  into  cold  water  and  lorm  into  balls.  This  requires 
about  a  dishpan   full  of  popped  corn. 

MRS.  HAROLD  WHIDDEN. 
POPCORN  BALES 
iy2   cups   Karo  corn   syrup,        1   cup   light   brown   sugar,        %    cup   butter. 
Cook    until    it    forms    a    soft    ball    in    cold    water.    Just    before   removing    from 
fire  add    %    teaspoon    baking   powder.   Pour   over   a    dishpan    full    of    popcorn 
and  mold   into  balls.  This  will   make  40   1  alls. 

[CATHERINE  K.  BISHOP. 
PUFFER  RU  i:  BRITTLE 
Boll  together  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  V2  cup  water,  1  teaspoon'ul 
vinegar.  Boil  "1  minutes.  Then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  molasses,  1  tables]). 1011 
luitter,  V2  teaspoon  salt.  Boil  until  a  few  drops  in  cold  water  become 
hard  and  brittle.  Take  from  fire,  stir  in  half  a  paeknge  puffed  rice  and  Bpread 
on  dish  to  cool.  SUSAN  BENNETT. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH 
2  cups  brown  sugar.  '1  teaspoons  vinegar.  1  cup  water,  I  cup 

butter,  1-2  teaspoon  vanilla.  Put  ingredients  in  a  smooth  graniteware 
saucepan,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boi',  without  stirr  ng,  until  mixture 
becomes  biittle  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Pcur  into  a  buttered  pan  to  1-8  inch 
in  thickness,  coo1   slightly  nnd  mark  in  squares. 

Mildred  Mcknight. 


Page  26 


MARSHMALLOWS 

y2  lb.  gelatin  in  1  pt.  water,  %  lb.  sugar.  Place  on  fire  nntil  well  dis- 
solved. Add  whites  of  4  eggs  well  beaten,  stir  until  it  does  not  stick.  Pour 
into  tin  dusted  with  cornstarch  and  when  cool  cut  in  squares. 

MRS.  WILLIS  BOYER,  Ashmore,  111. 

CANDIED  PINEAPPLE 

Take  1%  cup  sugar  and  %  cup  water  and  cook  until  it  makes  a  thick 
syrup.  Drain  canned  sliced  pineapple,  and  cook  in  the  syrup  until  it  has 
a  clear,  glazed  appearance.  Remove  from  syrup,  drain  and  roll  in  granu- 
lated sugar.  MRS.  LELAND  HONNOLD. 

FONDANT 

2  cups  granulated  sugar,  %  cup  boiling  water,  %  teaspoon  cream 
of  tartar,  flavoring1.  Bring  water  to  boil,  stir  in  sugar  which  has  been 
mixed  with  cream  tartar.  Cover  pan  and  boil  to  238  Fahrenheit  or  till  a 
very  soft  ball  can  be  formed.  Pour  in  platter  and  cool  till  you  can  hear 
your  hand  on  bottom  (almost  cold).  Beat  till  you  can  take  in  hands  and 
knead.  Knead  for  5  or  10  minutes  and  make  in  balls.  Put  nuts  on  top.  Candy 
can  be  dipped  in  chocolate.  LENA  STONE. 

HOME  MADE  MARSHMALLOWS 

1  bcx  gelatin  add  10  tatlespoons  water  and  1  teaspoonful  each  of 
lemon  and  vanilla  extract.  4  cups  granulated  sugar,  add  1  cup  water, 
boil  without  stirring  until  forms  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  Water. 
Pour  over  gelatin  and  beat  20  to  25  minutes.  Have  a  flat  pan  sprinkled 
with  powdered  sugar.  Cover  top  with  sugar  and  cut  when  cool. 

MRS.   FRED  WIELAND. 

3IAPLE  CREAMS 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  butter,  y2  cup  milk.  Boil  ten  min- 
utes or  till  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  water.  Beat  until  cool,  pour  into  but- 
tered tins  and  mark  into  squares.  Add  nuts  if  desired. 

MRS.  RAY  DUNN. 

PATIENCE  CANDY 

3  cups  granulated  sugar,  2  cups  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  *£  cup 
nuts.  Melt  1  cup  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  stirring1  constantly  until  it  is  the 
consistency  of  molasses.  Add  1  cup  milk  and  boil  until  the  caramel  is  dis- 
solved, then  add  remainder  of  milk,  sugar  and  butter.  Boil  until  it  threads 
heavily  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Take  from  fire,  and  put  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  in  a  saucer  and  stir  to  see  if  it  hardens,  if  try  is  right,  add  nuts  and 
stir  mixture  until  it  begins  to  harden. 

KARO  FUDGE 

2  sqs.  chocolate,  y2  cup  cold  milk,  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  % 
cup  Karo,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cook  slowly  un- 
til it  forms  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire  and  beat  until  cold. 

ALICE  MOODY. 

BURNT  SUGAR  CANDY 

Burn  2  tablespoons  granulated  sugar.  Add  2-3  cup  milk,  pour  in  slowly 
1  2-3  cup  granulated  sugar,  butter  size  English  walnut.  Cook  till  makes 
soft  ball  in  cold  water,  then  remove  from  heat  and  let  set  in  cold  water 
for  3  minutes,  then  beat  till  creamy  and  add  2-3  cup  nuts  just  before 
pouring1  in  pan.  NORA  C.  PIKE. 

Page  27 


PATIENCE  CAMtY 
3  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  %  teaspoon  va- 
nilla, 1  cup  English  walnuts.  Melt  1  cup  of  sugar  in  pan  stirring  to 
prevent  scorching.  Add  the  milk  and  remaining  sugar.  When  dissolved  add 
butter.  Cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball.  Take  from  stove,  beat  in  walnuts 
and  vanilla.  When  creamy  pour  on  buttered  tins.  LOLA  REDDEN. 

(ANT  BE   BEAT  FUDGE 

3  cups  granulated  sugar,  lVfe  cups  of  whole  sweet  milk,  1%  table- 
spoonfuls  cocoa.  All  beat  well  together  before  putting  on  to  cook.  Cook 
on  a  quick  fire  to  a  soft  ball  you  can  pick  up  out  of  cold  water.  Do  not 
stir  while  cooking.  Add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  then  set  to  cool.  Then 
whip  to  a  cream  and  pour  on  buttered  pan.  This  will  cut  50  nice  pieces. 

MRS.  O.  Z.  SMITH. 
BETTY  CARAMELS 
2  level  cupfuls  brown  sugar,  %  teaspoon  baking  powder,  y%  cup 
milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  coffee  extract  or  cocoa,  nut 
meats.  Put  into  a  saucepan  sugar,  baking  powder,  milk  and  butter,  bring 
to  boiling  point  and  boil,  gently  stirring  all  the  time  until  the  mixture 
lorms  a  soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water.  Add  coffee  extract  or  cocoa 
and  pour  into  a  dry  pan.  Then  heat  until  the  mixture  becomes  stiff.  Then 
roll  into  large  marbles  and  put  a  nut  on  top  of  each.  Lay  on  waxed  paper 
to  become  firm.  This  recipe  is  sufficient  for  25  caramels. 

JOY  HONNOLD. 
AFTER  DINNER  MINTS 
2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  hot  water,  *4  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  %  table- 
spoon vinegar.  Stir  all  together,  cook  until  very  brittle.  Pour  out  in  but- 
tered plate  to  cool.  Pull  a  few  minutes.  Add  two  drops  oil  of  peppermint. 
Pull  until  you  can  cut  off  with  scissors.  Roll  in  powdered  sugar.  Put  in 
glass  jar  and  leave  for  a  few  days.  It  will  become  soft  and  brittle. 

LENA  STONE. 

EUREKA  COLLEGE  CARAMELS 

2%  tablespoons  butter,  y2  cup  milk,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  4  sqs. 
unsweetened  chocolate,  2  tablespoons  molasses,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Put  butter  in  saucepan,  and  when  melted  add  sugar,  molasses  and  milk. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add  chocolate,  and  stir  constantly  until  choco- 
late is  melted.  Let  boil  until  mixture  when  tried  in  cold  water  will  form 
a  firm  ball.  Add  vanilla,  turn  into  a  buttered  tin,  cool  slightly  and  cut 
into  Bquares.  MILDRED  McKNIGHT. 

OPERA  CREAMS 

.",  cups  granulated  BUgar,  1%  cups  cream.  y4  teaspoon  cream  tartar. 
pinch  of  salt.  Cook  until  it  makes  soft  ball  in  water.  When  cool  beat  and 
knead  into  loaf.  Add  candied  cherries  and  mints.  Coat  with  chocolate  in 
which   y»  teaspoon   paraffin   has  been  added. 

KATHERINE  K.  BISHOP. 

PENWUCCI 

1  cnp  brown  sugar,  y~  cup  walnuts,  M  cup  water,  10  drops  va- 
nilla, 2  tablespoons  butter.  Boil  sugar,  water  ami  butter  together,  with- 
out stirring,  to  the  soft-ball  stage.  Remove  from  fire  when  cool,  add  va- 
nilla and  beat   until  creamy.   Add   walnuts  and   pour  quickly  into  oiled  tin. 

mildred  Mcknight. 


Vage  28 


PUFFED   RICE   BALLS 

*4  cup  molasses,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  cup  puffed  rice.  Boil 
sugar  and  molasses  to  hard  ball.  Mix  with  puffed  rice  which  has  been 
crisped  in  oven.    Form  into  balls  or  squares.  MRS.  W.  H.  FONGER. 

PANUCHEE 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  %  cup  cream,  3  tablespoons  butter,  %  cup 
nuts,  grated  rind  of  one  orange.  Boil  until  soft  ball  forms  in  cold  wat- 
er. Add  nuts  and  orange  just  before  taking  from  fire.  Beat. 

DOROTHEA  GILBERT. 


"The  art  of  cookery,  when  not  allied  with  a 
degenerate  taste  or  with  gluttony,  is  one  of  the  criteria 
of  a  people's  civilization." 


Page  2Q 


Page  30 


FISH 


BAKE   FISH 

Butter  a  pan,  put  in  fish,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  dot  with  a 
little  butter.  Bake  until  tender. 

Sauce — 1  can  tomatoes,  1  can  peas,  2  onions  cooked  until  thick. 
Add  salt,  pepper,  place  fish  on  platter  and  put  sauce  around.  Garnish 
with  lemon.  MRS.  LAWRENCE  PINNELL. 

SALMON  TURLBOT 

1  lb.  salmon  broken  in  bits  (bones  removed),  1  qt.  sweet  milk  scalded 
and  thickened  with  4  tablespoons  flour  and  2  tablespoons  butter.  Set 
aside  and  when  cool  add  three  well  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt  and 
pepper.  Fill  baking  dish  with  first  a  layer  of  sauce  then  salmon.  Sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  %  hour.  MARIE  S.  PINNELL. 

CREAMED  TUNA  FISH  WITH  TAPIOCA 
Scald  two  cupfuls  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  2-3  teaspoonful  salt, 
Vs  teaspoonful  pepper,  %  cupful  tapioca.  Stir  constantly  until  thick- 
ened, and  cook  until  tapioca  is  transparent,  then  add  2  cupfuls  tuna- 
fish  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  pimento  cut  fine.  Reheat  and  serve  on  hot 
toast,  or  in  patty-shells.  MRS.  ANNA  HALL. 

FISH  CROQUETTES 

2  cups  cold  fish,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons 
butter,  1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  y2  teaspoon  pepper,  1  cup 
crumbs,  2  eggs,  parsley,  lemons,  fat.  Cream  the  flour  and  but- 
ter. Put  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  when  it  is  at  the  boiling  point 
add  the  flour  and  butter.  Stir  until  it  is  smooth  and  thick,  and  add  the 
salt,  pepper  and  fish  flaked.  Spread  on  a  platter  and  let  it  cool.  Then 
shape,  roll  in  flour,  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Arrange  on  a 
hot  dish  and  garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  lemon. 

DELILAH  NAY. 
SALMON  CROQUETTES 
1%  cup  salmon  (flaked),  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  few  grains 
pepper,  %  cup  thick  white  sauce,  salt.  Method:  Add  sauce  to  salmon, 
add  seasonings,  spread  on  a  plate  to  cool,  shape,  dip  into  crumbs,  into 
eggs  and  then  into  crumbs  again,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  (Domestic  Science 
Cook  Book).  DELILAH  NAY. 


Page  31 


DRINKS 


ITNfll 

.Juice  nt  :;  lemons,  juice  of  :!  oranges,  1  pt.  grape  juice,  1  cup 
pineapple  juice.  2  cups  sugar  boiled  with  2  cups  water.  Cool  ami  add 
1  (|t.  water.   I'ut   in  a   punch  howl  with  a  good  sized  lump  of  ice. 

MARY  WHITESIDE. 
FRUIT  PUNCH 
1    qt.    cold     water,        2    cups    sugar.        y2     cup   lemon    juice,        2    cups 
(  bopped    pineapple,        1    cup    orange   juice.      Boil    water,    sugar    and    pineap- 
ple   twenty    minutes.    Add    fruit    juice,    cool,    strain,    and    dilute    with    Ice- 
wat.r.  MILDRED  PINNELL. 

LEMONADE 
1  cup  sugar,       1-3  cup  lemon  juice,       1  pt.  water.     Make  syrup  by  boil- 
ing   sugar    and    water    12    minutes,    add    fruit    juice,    cool,    and    dilute    with 
ice-water  to   suit    individual   tastes.    Lemon    syrup   may   be  bottled   and    kept 
on  hand  to  use  as  needed. 

ORANGEADE 
Make    syrup   as    for   lemonade.    Sweeten    orange   juice    with    syrup,    and 
dilute  by  pouring  over  crushed  ice.  MINERVA  PINNELL. 

COFFFE 

For  recipe  for  making  coffee  in  quantity,  see  page  71. 


.  -' 


ICES  AND  ICE  CREAM 


FRUIT-ICE 

1  qt.  fruit,  fresh  or  canned,  juice  of  4  lemons,  grate  the  rind  of  2,  4 
cups  sugar,  1  egg  white  beaten  stiff,  enough  water  to  make  a  gallon. 
Add  all  together  and  freeze.  MRS.  C.  A.  HITE. 

CRANBERRY  ICE 

1  qt.  cranberries,  1  pt.  water,  1  lb.  sugar,  2  lemons.  Cook  cran- 
berries till  soft.  Strain  them.  Add  sugar  and  cook  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Cool,  add  juice  of  lemons  and   freeze.  R.   PHIPPS. 

ORANGE  ICE 
Juice  of  6  oranges,       2  teaspoons  orange   extract,       juice  of   1   lemon, 
1  qt.  water,       2  cups  powdered  sugar,       %  cup  cream.     Mix  all  ingredients 
together,  strain  and  freeze.  MARIE  S.  PINNELL. 

ORANGE  CREAM  SHERBET 

2  cuds  milk.  2  cups  thin  cream,  3  cups  sugar,  *£  cup  lemon 
juice,  3%  cups  orange  juice,  2  egg  whites.  Make  fruit  juice  and  sugar 
into  a  syrup.  Cool.  Add  milk  and  cream  gradually.  Partially  freeze.  Beat 
egg  whites  stiff,  add  to  partially  frozen   mixture  and  finish  freezing. 

MRS.  W.  H.  FONGER. 
SHERBET  (1  gallon) 
1  can  pineapple,       2  lemons,       1%   cups  sugar.     Stir  and  chill  2  whole 
egg's,      1%  cups  sugar,       1  pt.  cream  and  enough  rich  milk  to  finish  out. 

MRS.  MARTIN  FLENNER. 
SHERBET 
1  can  pineapple   (large  size),       juice  of  3  lemons  or  3  oranges,       1  pt. 
water  and   pineapple  juice   added,       1  pt.    sugar.     Freeze   till   it  is    chilled 
good.     Add   y^  gal.  rich  milk  and  cream  and  1  cup   sugar  and  freeze.  Add 
whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Freeze  and  pack.  ONA  ANDREWS. 

PINEAPPLE   SHERBET 
Part  1 — 3  lemons,      6  oranges,      1  can  crushed  pineapple,      %  pt.  water, 
1  cup  sugar. 

Part  2 — Whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff,  3  pints  cream  beaten,  1  cup 
rugar.  Freeze  part  1  until  nearly  frozen,  add  part  2  and  complete  freez- 
ing and  pack  2  hours.  MARIE  S.  PINNELL. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE 

3  eggs,  1  cup  maple  syrup,  1  qt.  cream  (whipped).  Heat  syrup,  pour 
over  egg  yolks,  and  beat  well.  Mix  whipped  cream  with  egg  mixture  when 
cool  and  freeze.  Add  beaten  whites  when  partly  frozen.  This  recipe  makes 
^  gallon  of  the  mousse.   (Lida  R.  Wilson's  Cook  Book). 

BARBARA  PINNELL. 
PINEAPPLE  PARFAIT 
%  cup  sugar,  2  egg  whites,  Vi  cup  water,  1  pt.  cream,  1  small 
can  grated  pineapple,  1  lemon.  Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  spins  a 
thread  and  pour  over  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  When  cool  add  well 
drained  pineapple,  lemon  juice  and  cream  whipped  until  it  is  stiff.  Pack 
in  ice  3  hours.  Makes  y2  gal.  FRANCES  KESTER. 

PLAIN    ICE    CREAM 

4  eggs  (yolks),  1  cup  sugar,  4  tablespoons  flour,  y2  gal.  milk. 
Method:  Cook  until  thick  as  pie  filling,  set  off  and  let  cool.  Add  1  cup 
sugar,  y%  gal.  milk  or  cream  and  I  eaten  whites  of  eggs.  Add  flavoring  to 
suit  taste.  MARJORIE   STARK. 

Page  33 


RA8PRERR1   IC1  CRE  VM 

1  (|t.  cream.  1  qt.  raspberries,  1  lb.  sugar.  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Put  half  the  sugar  and  half  the  cream  on  to  boil  In  double  boiler,  when  the 
sugar  is  dissolved  stand  aside  to  cool.  Add  the  remaining  half  of  sugar  and 
i  he  lemon  juice  to  the  berries.  Mash  and  stand  aside  1  hour  then  strain 
through  fine  muslin.  Add  remaining  half  of  cream  to  the  sweetened  cream. 
and  freeze.  When  frozen  stir  in  fruit  juice,  beat  thoroughly.  If  canned 
I  mil    is  used  less  sugar  required.  Serve  8  people.  MRS.    RORER. 

FROZEN   i»kkkkkts— CHOCOLATE  CREAM 

2  qts.  milk.  1  qt.  cream,  1  tablespoon  vanilla,  4  ozs.  chocolate, 
:  i  ups  sugar.  pineh  salt.  Place  milk  and  sugar  in  double  boiler  and 
bring  to  a  boil,  then  add  melted  chocolate.  When  cold  stir  in  cream  and 
vanilla.  Pour  into  freezer  and  freeze  like  any  other  cream. 

KATHLEEN  SEXTON. 
ICE  CREAM 

3  pints  milk,  1  pint  sugar,  0  eggs.  3  tablespoons  corn  starch. 
1  qt.  cream,       flavoring.     Cook  in  double  boiler,  then  let  cool  and  freeze. 

VIOLA   SIMPSON. 

PEPPERMINT  CANDY  ICE  CREAM 

%  lb.  peppermint  candy,  ft  gal.  milk.  1  pt.  whipping  cream.  Place 
milk  and  candy  in  double  boiler  and  heat  until  candy  is  dissolved.  Cool 
and  freeze.   Add   whipped  cream   after   mixture  starts   to   freeze. 

MRS.  LELAND   HONNOLD. 

PEPPERMINT  MICE  CANDY   ICE  CREAM 

1  qt.  milk.  1  qt.  cream,  2  eggs,  1  lb.  peppermint  stick  candy.  Beat  the 
>olks  of  eggs  and  put  in  milk.  Cook  until  it  comes  to  boiling  point,  then 
dissolve  candy  in  it,  while  hot.  When  cool  add  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  the  cream.  LIMA  HENRY. 


Page  34 


PASTRY 

PIE  CRUST 

Take  1^4  cupfuls  flour,  *£  teaspoon  salt,  M  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der. Sift  all  ingredients  together  in  mixing  bowl,  put  V£  cup  lard  in  and 
pour  4  tablespoons  boiling  water  and  beat  together  till  creamy  then  stir 
in  flour  mixture  with  fork  into  a  ball,  then  roll. 

ONE,  TWO,  THREE  PIE  CRUST 

1  cup  flour,  2  rounding  tablespoons  lard,  3  tablespoons  water, 
ice  cold,  pinch  salt,  V4  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Put  flour  in  a  bowl. 
Cut  shortening  into  flour,  add  the  cold  water.  Roll  to  a  thin  crust. 

KATHERINE  K.  BISHOP. 
LEMON  PIE 
1%  cups  sugar,       2  tablespoons  flour,       1  whole  egg  and   2  yolks,       1 
cup    water,       1    lemon    (grated).      Cook    in    double    boiler    until    thick    and 
put  in  baked  crust.  Beat  the  whites  of  2   eggs  stiff,  sweeten  to  taste  and 
brown  on  top.  MRS.  W.  S.  WILEY. 

LEMON  PIE 
%    cup   boiling   water,       %    cup    sugar,       2y2    tablespoons    cornstarch. 
Boil    2   minutes,   then   add    yolks    of   2    eggs    (beaten),    3    tablespoons    lemon 
juice,       1   tablespoon   melted   butter.     Bake   in  pie   shell   till   filling   is   set. 
Take  whites  of  eggs,  make  meringue,  brown  on  top. 

MRS.  FRED  L.  SMOCK. 
LEMON  PIE 

2  lemons,  2  cups  sugar,  3  eggs,  2  cups  boiling  water,  3  table- 
spoons cornstarch.  Mix  lemon  juice,  sugar,  yolks  of  eggs  and  cornstarch. 
Add  boiling  water.  Put  on  stove  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Then  put  in 
crusts,  and  cover  with  meringue.  This  makes  2  pies. 

MRS.  HAROLD  WHIDDEN. 
LEMON  PIE 
Mix  together,  1  cup  sugar,      2  tablespoons  cornstarch,      1  lemon  (grated 
rind   and   juice),       2   eggs    (yolks),       2   cups   hot   water.     Boil    until   thick 
und  pour  into  crust  already  baked,  using  egg  whites  for  meringue. 

MISS  KATHERINE  HITE. 
PINEAPPLE  PIE 
%   cup   sugar,       1   cup   milk,       2   egg's    (yolks),       1   tablespoon    butter, 
2  heaping  tatlespoons  flour,       small   can   pineapple,       whites   of  2   eggs   on 
top,       1  teaspoon  vanilla.  MRS.  CHAS.  KIRCHNER. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 
6   tatlespoons   sugar,       yolks   of   2   eggs,       1   pt.    water,   4   tablespoons 
grated  chocolate,       2  tablespoons  cornstarch.     Let  boil  until  thick  and  add 
L   teaspoonful    vanilla.   Bake    crust   first,    then    add    filling   when    cool.    Put 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  with  2  tablespoons  sugar  on  top  of  pie  and  brown. 

MRS.  JENNIE  TATE,  Grand  View,  111. 
OBJUffiC  PIE 
Cream  \i  cup  butter,  add  %  cup  sugar,  juice  of  1  orange  and  half 
the  grated  rind,  together  with  the  juice  of  %  lemon,  beat  until  light,  and 
then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  the  white  of  1  egg,  beaten  until  light. 
Hake  with  1  crust.  When  partly  cooled  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of 
tho  stiff  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  to  which  3  level  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar  have  been  added  gradually  and  2  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar 
lolded  in.  Brown  delicately  in  oven.  DELILAH  NAY. 

Page  35 


CHESS  PIE 

3  eggs,  2-3  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of  egg. 
Beat  egg  yolks  and  sugar,  add  butter  and  milk.  Beat  whites  stiff  with  3 
tablespoons  sugar.  Bake  as  a  c ustard  pie,  with  one  crust. 

MILDRED  A.  PIXXELL. 
BI  TT EB SCOTCH  PIE 
1  cup  dark  brown  sugar,  2  cups  milk,  4  bananas,  2  tablespoons 
flour,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  or  3  eggs.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  butter  and 
yolks,  add  to  hot  milk.  Cook  until  it  thickens,  when  you  add  filling  to  pie 
crust.  Put  in  2  sliced  bananas  for  each  pie.  Cover  with  meringue.  This 
makes  2  pies.  MRS.  HAROLD  WHIDDEN. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE 

1  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  cornstarch.  pinch  salt,  2  eggs,  1% 
cUps  milk,  1  tal  lospoon  butter.  Mix  y2  cup  sugar  and  3  tablespoons 
cornstarch  and  add  to  beaten  egg  yolks.  Gradually  stir  into  this  \y2  cups 
milk.  Heat.  Have  cooked  1  tablespoonful  butter  and  %  cup  sugar  to  which 
has  been  added  enough  hot  water  to  dissolve.  Add  to  other  mixture  and 
cook,  stirring  constantly  until  smooth  and  thick.  Pour  into  baked  crust 
and  cover  with  meringue  made  of  2  egg  whites  beaten  and  \i  cup  sugar 
(granulated).   Brown    in    quick   oven.  MRS.    B.    H.    SAXTOX. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE 

2  tablespoons  butter,  1  egg,  %  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  \y2 
tablespoon  flour.  Beat  yolk  of  egg,  stir  flour  and  all  the  milk  except 
4  tablespoons,  mix  well  and  put  to  one  side.  Put  butter  into  skillet  and 
melt,  stir  into  the  brown  sugar  and  the  4  tablespoons  of  milk  and  cook  5 
minutes,  then  add  the  first  mixture  and  cook  until  thick.  Pour  into  baked 
crust  and  cover  with  meringue.   (D.  A.  R.  Cook  Book). 

MRS.  W.  H.  HOXXOLD. 
COCOANUT  (BEAM  PIE  (Meringue) 
1  cup  shredded  cocoanut,  3  eggs,  2-3  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
cornstarch,  1%  cups  milk,  pinch  salt.  Add  sugar  and  cornstarch 
thoroughly  mixed  to  yolks  of  eggs  which  have  been  beaten,  gradually  stir 
in  milk  and  cook  until  thick,  then  odd  shredded  cocoanut  and  pour  into 
baked  crust.  Cover  with  beaten  egg  whites  to  which  has  been  added  *4 
(tip  sugar.  Sprinkle  with  cocoanut  and  brown  quickly. 

MRS.  B.  H.  SAXTOX. 
COCOANUT  PIE 
yolks  of  2  eggs,       %    cup   sugar,       2   heaping  tablespoonfuls   flour. 
tat    milk.  Add   a     little   milk    to    the    eggs,    sugar   and     flour,   beat     until 
smooth,    then     add     rest   of     milk.    Use    a    double     boiler,   cook     until     thick, 
Sprinkle   shredded    cocoanut    in   tottom  of  linked   crust,  then   the   filling  and 
more  cocoanut   on    top.   Beat    the   whites   to   a    sti  f   froth,   add    2   tablespoons 
sugar,  spread  on  top  with  a   sprinkle  of  cocoanut.   Brown   slightly. 

[NBZ  SALLEB. 
TYLER  PUDRINC.  PIE 
For   2   pies,   S   eggs  1  eaten   together,   save   2    whites,       1    cup   butter*       2 
cups  sugar,        1   cup   milk.       2   tablespoons    flour,       little   nutmeg,        whites 
of  the  2  eggs  on  top.  MRS.  L.  T.  ARTERBURN. 

SHORT-CAKE 
Snub   the   lorries   and   sweeten,    bake    the    cake    part    like    biscuit    dough 
only   a   little   richer.   Bake   in    a   bread   pan.   then    cut    into    and   butter    and 
spread   the  berries  in  the  middle  and   over  (he  top.  MRS.  OAR. 

Page  $6 


CREAM  PIE 

Place  14  cupful  sugar  in  a  dish  and  pour  a  cup  of  thick,  sweet  cream 
over  it.  Let  stand  while  you  whip  the  whites  of  3  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Whip  all  together  thoroughly,  flavor  to  suit  and  bake  in  a  rich  crust. 

MRS.  U.  B.  FITZPATRICK. 
AMBER  PIE 
Yolks    of    2    eggs,        4    tablespoons    sugar,        2    tablespoons    flour,        1 
tablespoon   butter,       1  cup  sweet  milk,       1  cup   raisins,       1  teaspoon   cin- 
namon.   Bake  in  open  crust.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  for  top  and  brown. 

ANNA  ZINK. 
BOSTON  CREAM  PIE 
Sift  together  1  cup  flour,  1*4  teaspoon  baking  powder,  14  tea- 
spoon salt.  Beat  2  eggs  without  separating  and  add  to  them  1  cup  sugar, 
tben  stir  in  alternately  the  sifted  flour  and  y2  cup  boiling  water.  Add 
scant  teaspoon  vanilla,  pour  into  2  round  cake  pans  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  until  it  shrinks  from  sides  of  pans.  When  cool  fill  with  the  follow- 
ing filling. 

Filling — Mix  together  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  flour,  pinch  of  salt.  Beat 
2  eggs  and  add,  stirring  well.  Have  ready  2  cups  boiling  milk  and  stir 
mixture  in  to  hot  milk.  Cook  stirring1  constantly  until  it  thickens.  Let  cool 
beiore  putting  on  cake.  MRS.  BARTMESS. 

EGOLESS  PUMPKIN  PIE 
1   small    cup    pumpkin,       1   cup    sugar,       2    tablespoons    flour,        1    pt. 
milk,       1   teaspoon   cinnamon,       1   teaspoon   ginger    (scant).     When   placed 
in   crust    add   5   tablespoons    rich   cream,    little    sugar    and   nutmeg.    Cook 
slowly.  ETHEL  P.  GREATHOUSE. 

RHUBARB  PIE 
Pour  boiling"  water  over  2  teacupfuls  of  chopped  rhubarb,  drain  after 
E  minutes.  Mix  1  teacupful  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour,  yolk  of  1  egg, 
lump  of  butter  size  of  walnut  and  3  teablespoons  of  water  and  add  to 
rhubarb.  Bake  in  lower  crust  and  cover  with  meringue  of  egg  whites,  3 
tablespoons  sugar  and  V2  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  Brown  in  oven. 

MRS.  W.  FITZPATRICK. 
RHUBARB  CREAM  PIE 
Cut  2  cups  rhubarb.  Pour  boiling  water  over   it.  Let   stand   5   minutes. 
Mix   1   cup   sugar,       1   tablespoon   flour,       yolk   of   2   eggs,       1   tablespoon 
water,       1  teaspoon  butter.     Add  to  rhubarb  after  hot  Water  is  poured  off. 
Put  in  pie  crust  and  bake.  Use  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue. 

DOROTHY  WILHOIT. 


For  man  must  eat  was  ever  thus, 
A  truth  that  never  dies 
The  girl  that  makes  him  happy 
Is  the  girl  that  makes  him  pies. 


Page  37 


Page  38 


MEATS  AND  EGGS 


BAKED  HAM 

Soak  over  night  in  plenty  of  water.  Boil  four  hours  in  water  with  1 
cup  of  vinegar  and  1  small  onion.  Put  1  teacup  dark  brown  sugar  into  the 
fat,  stick  cloves  in,  cover  or  roll  in  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  in  covered  baker 
2  hours.  MRS.  ANNIE  HITE. 

NTT  LOAF  (Substitute  for  Cold  Meat) 
Put  through  food  chopper   1  cup  English   walnuts   and    1%    cups    Brazil 
nuts.   Mix  with  2   well   beaten  eggs,       2   cups   boiled   rice   and   1   cup   milk. 
Season  with  salt.  Pack  firmly  and  bake  in  well  buttered  pan  in  hot  oven. 

MRS.  J.  H.  WILLIAMS. 
BEEF  LOAF 
2  lbs.  of  beef,       1     lb.  pork,       grind  with     meat  cutter,       2  onions,       S 
or  9  crackers  or  bread  crumbs.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  sage, 
2  eggs  and  a  cup  of  milk.    Make  in  loaf  and  bake  iy2  hours. 

MRS.  CLARENCE  CASSELL,  Charleston,  111. 
MEAT 

1  lb.  beef  steak  (ground).  Fry  2  medium  onions  in  1  tablespoon  of 
lard.  Then  add  meat  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Cook  1  box  spaghetti  until 
tender  in  clear  water.  Add  this  to  meat:  %  can  tomatoes,  salt,  red  and 
black  pepper,  chili  powder.  Cook  slowly  about  1  hour.  Just  before  lifting, 
add  1  cup  grated  cheese.  MRS.  T.  S.  WRIGHT. 

MEAT  LOAF 

2  lbs.  round  steak,  y2  lb.  pork,  choped,  2  eggs,  5  crackers  rolled, 
little  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  y2  teacup  milk.  Mix  all  together 
in  a  loaf.  Pour  little  water  over,  put  in  oven.  Baste  occasionally.  To  make 
real  nice  put  hard  boiled  eggs  in  center  before  baking. 

KATHRYX  X.  WILHOIT. 
CHOP  SUEY 
Cut  1  chicken  off  bones  before  cooking  in  rather  large  pieces  and  cook 
in  3  tablespoons  olive  oil  until  tender,  about  y2  hour.  Cook  an  equal  or  larg- 
er portion  of  chopped  celery  and  half  portion  of  onion  (chopped)  in  2  table- 
spoons olive  oil  until  tender.  Combine  and  cook  for  some  time  in  sauce 
made  of  the  following:  2  tablespoons  brown  cooking  syrup,  2  tablespoons 
cornstarch,  4  tablespoons  chop  suey  sauce,  3  tablespoons  broth.  Add  more 
broth,  or  chop  suey  sauce  if  needed.     Serve  very  hot  with  boiled  rice. 

MRS.  R.  W.  BRISCOE. 
GRANDMOTHER'S  SMOTHERED  CHICKEN 
Take  a  young  chicken,  either  frying  or  broiling  size,  cut  up  as  for  fry- 
ing, salt,  roll  in  flour,  have  ready  a  deep  pan  or  skillet  half  filled  with 
water  which  has  about  reached  boiing  point,  place  pieces  in  this  and  if 
chicken  isn't  very  fat  a  few  small  lumps  of  butter  may  be  dropped  in, 
pepper,  place  in  oven  and  cook  till  thoroughly  done,  then  you  have  chick- 
en and  gravey  both  ready  to  dish  and  put  on  table,  should  water  cook  away 
too  much,  more  may  be  added  a  time  or  two  while  cooking. 

MRS.  J.  H.  BENNETT. 
NOODLES 
2  whole  eggs  beaten,       1   scant  teaspoon  salt.     Mix  eggs   in   flour  with 
fingers  till  very  stiff  dough.   Roll  out  in  thin  sheet,   roll   up  and   cut  very 
fine.  Separate  and  spread  out  on   bread  board  for  at  least  2  hours  to  dry. 
Cook  for  30  minutes  in  chicken  broth.  DOLLIE  McCALLISTER. 

Page  39 


DROP  DUMPLINGS 

1  pt.  flour,  4  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  egg,  %  cup  sweet 
milk  (more  if  needed).  Cook  20  or  25  minutes  without  lifting  lid  if 
possible.  MRS.  J.  M.  BULL. 

SHOE  STRING  DUMPLINGS 

Use  3  eggs,  beaten  well,  stir  in  all  flour  that  you  can,  make  stiff,  make 
of  dough  two  buscuits,  work  stiff,  roll  thin,  adding  flour,  cut  fine.  Shake 
out,  let  dry  a  little.  MRS.  J.  M.  BULL. 

BACON  OMELET 

Mix  Vz  cup  dry  bread  crumbs  with  y2  cup  hot  milk,  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  light  and  stir  in,  then  % 
cup  of  chopped  bacon  which  has  been  fried,  last  the  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  Cook  in  well  buttered  pan  until  set,  then  fold  over  and  put  in  hot 
oven  for  two  or  three  minutes.  IDA  SMITH. 

OMELET  (Splendid) 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  y2  cup  milk,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  beat  all 
together,  then  add  beaten  whites.  Pour  this  into  skillet  where  Vk  cup  of  chip- 
ped bacon  has  been  fried.  Add  while  hot  until  it  sets,  then  put  into  quick 
oven  and  bake  for  5  minutes.  Serve  hot.  MRS.  IDA  BANE. 


"We  grow  like  what  we  eat; 

Bad  food  depresses,  good  food  exalts  us  like  an  inspiration." 


Page  40 


BREAD 


GOOD  BISCUITS 

2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2 
tablespoons  shortening,  1  cup  milk  or  water.  Into  the  flour,  salt  and 
baking  powder  cut  the  shortening.  Add  the  liquid  and  stir.  Turn  onto  a 
well-floured  board  and  pat  to  a  thickness  of  %  inch.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

MARY  FORSTER. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT 

2  pts.  flour,  butter  or  lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  3  heaping  teaspoon- 
fuls  baking  powder  and  1  teaspoonful  salt.  Rub  shortening  into  the  flour 
as  for  pie  crust,  and  add  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead 
as  little  as  possible.     Cut  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

MRS.  T.  A.  FLENNER. 
BRAN  DROP  BISCUIT 
1  cup  flour,       y2  teaspoon   salt,       1  teaspoon   baking   powder,       2   tab- 
lespoons  sugar,       \y2    cups   bran,       2   tablespoons    lard.     Mix   in    the   order 
given.     Add   1  cup  sour  milk  in  which  y2  teaspoon   soda  is  dissolved.   Drop 
in  greased  pan  and  bake  quickly. 

BUNS 

3  cups  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  scant  cup  lard,  y2  yeast  cake, 
Vi  cup  sugar,  flour.  Scald  milk,  add  sugar  and  lard  while  hot.  Soak  yeast 
cake  in  y2  cup  luke-warm  water.  When  milk  has  cooled  to  luke-warm,  add 
the  yeast  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  that  will  drop  from  spoon. 
Let  raise.  This  will  take  about  6  hours  in  a  warm  place.  Then  add  salt, 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  rather  stiff  dough.  Knead  thoroughly  and 
let  raise  again  for  about  3  hours.  When  raised,  roll  out  and  cut  with 
medium  sized  cutter.  Brush  the  top  with  thick  cream.  Let  raise  about 
I'll  hour.  Bake  in  rather  hot  oven.  ARELIA  R.  PINNELL. 

(Mrs.  H.  P.  Pinnell  recipe) 
BUNS 
1  cake  yeast,  1  cup  lard,  1  qt.  sweet  milk,  y2  cup  sugar,  pinch 
salt.  Method:  Soak  yeast  in  luke-warm  water.  Mix  dry  ingredients.  Scald 
milk  and  add  to  dry  ingredients.  Stir  in  flour  to  make  soft  sponge.  Add 
yeast.  Let  rise  until  light.  Mix  in  stiff  dough  as  for  light  bread,  add 
1  cup  sweet  milk.     Keep  in  cool  place.  Use  when  needed. 

MRS.  EDWIN  STARK. 
CORN-MEAL  GEMS 
y2   cup  corn-meal,       1  cup  flour,       3   teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,        l/2 
teaspoonlul  salt,       %  cup  milk,       1  egg  well  beaten. 

MRS.  C.  0.  BROWN. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

1  cake  yeast,  2  tal  lespoons  sugar,  1  pt.  milk  (scalded  and  cooled),  4 
tablespoons  lard  or  butter  melted,  3  pts.  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Dissolve 
yeast  in  luke-warm  milk,  add  lard  or  butter  and  \y2  pints  flour.  Beat  until 
;  erfectly  smooth.  Cover  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  for  about  \y2  hours, 
or  until  double  in  bulk.  Roll  out  y±  inch  thick.  Brush  lightly  with  melted 
butter,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  crease  through  center  heavily  with  dull 
edge  of  knife,  and  fold  over  in  pocket-book  shape.  Place  in  well  greased 
shallow  pans  1  inch  apart,  cover  and  let  rise  about  %  of  an  hour.  Bake 
10  minutes  in  hot  oven.  ELIZABETH  SEXTON. 

Vage  41 


(inn  vmov  BOLLS 
2%  cups  flour,  %  cup  sugar,  %  cup  water,  4  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  2  tablespoons  short- 
ening, 4  tableapopni  raisins,  1  egg.  Take  2  tablespoons  of  measured 
sugar  and  sift  with  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  into  bowl,  rub  in  short- 
<  ning.  add  beaten  egg  to  water  and  mix  dough  hlov.lv.  RoU  out  1-3  inch 
thick,  brush  with  melted  butter,  supriukle  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  rais- 
ins. Roll  as  for  jelly  roll,  cut  slices  1  inch  long,  set  on  end  in  pan  and 
sprinkle  more  BQgar  and  cinnamon  on  top.  Bake  in  moderate  OTttB 
iiinutes.  ANNE  EL  ZIMMERMAN. 

PEAffUl  BUTTBB  BBEAD 
2   cups   four.       1   teaspoons   baking   powder,        1   teaspoon    salt.        1    cap 
ut    butter.        1   cup    milk,        \±    cup   sugar,       2   eggi  ,      Mix    and    bake    in 
moderate  oven.  KATHBRINE  K.  BISHOP. 

DATS  BBEAD 

2  cups  white  flour.  1  cup  graham  flour,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1 
cup  English  walnuts,  1  egg,  1  package  dates,  %  teaspoon  salt,  1 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk.  1V£  cups  sour  milk.  Bake  l1^  hours 
slowly.  MRS.  XELLE  HITE. 

LIUA  HENRY. 
MRS.    MARY    WHITESIDE. 
MRS.  MARTIN  PlcENNER 
MI  FFINS  FOR  TWO 
Cream   1-3   cup  butter   and   M   cup   sugar,     beat   one   egg   light,   add    % 
cup  milk,   2   cups   flour,       4   level   teaspoonfuls   baking    powder,    pinch    salt. 
These  are  fine  to  add,     fresh  fruit,  blackberries  or     raspberries.     Bake  in 
the  batter.  KATHRYX  X.  WILHOIT. 

OWE  EG€  MIFFIN 

3  cups  flour,  4  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  3  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  1%  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  egg.  Mix  dry  in- 
gredients. Sift  or  stir  as  you  prefer.  Add  gradually  the  milk,  then  the 
melted  butter,  then  egg  beaten  until  quite  light.  Fill  buttered  muffin  tins 
and  bake  in  hot  oven  for  15  or  20  minutes.     This  will  make  1  dozen  muffins. 

MRS.  W.  H.  FOXGER. 
MIFFINS 
2    cups    flour,       %    teaspoonful    salt,       2    teaspoonfuls    baking    powder, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  egg,  milk.  Sift  together  the  flour,  salt,  baking 
powder  and  sugar.  Add  beaten  egg  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  rather 
Btitt  batter.  MRS.  JOHN    BARRY. 

BRAN  MI  FFINS 
2%  cups  bran,       1%  cup  flour,       1  teaspoon  salt,       4  tablespoons  syrup, 

2  tablespoons  shortening,  1  egg,  1%  cup  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  soda. 
Dissolve  soda  in  buttermilk,  then  beat.  Fill  Well  greased  muffin  pans  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  for  2.">  minutes.     Toast  loft  over  muffins. 

MRS.  WILSON. 
M'T  BBJEAD 
Sift  together  3  or  4  times  the  following:    V.   cap  sugar    (small   cup).       2 
(  nps    flour,        3    teaspoons    baking    powder,        Vi    teaspoon    salt.      Beat    well 
jg       2-3  rup  sweet  milk,       add   milk   and   last  egg  and   %   cup  chopped 
nuts.      If   batter    is    too    thin    add    flour    or    if    too    thick    add    milk.      To    be 
about  the  tame  as  oakC  batter.     Hake  slowly  in   I  moderate  oven. 

HARRIET   NAY 

Page  42 


BEAN   MIFFINS 

iy2  cups  sterilized  bran,  1^  cup  whole  wheat  flour,  1  egg,  2  table- 
spoons molasses,  %  teaspoon  soda  mixed  in  little  warm  water.  1  cup  sour 
milk  or  buttermilk,       salt.     Bake  20  to  2".  minutes. 

ETHEL  IV  OREATHOl 

emcini  bbeab 

1  tea  cup  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  molasses,  3  eggs.  yolks  and 
whites  beaten  separately,  l  ,  up  sour  milk,  4  tea  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon 
ginger.  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  grated  nutmeg.  l  tablespoon 
soda.     Rake  in  a  rather  large  bread  pan.  MRS.  OAR. 

BINGES  BREAD 

3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  l  cup  batter,  1  cup  sour- 
milk,  3  cups  flour.  2  heaping  teaspoons  ginger,  2  teapaoonfuli  cin- 
namon,       1   teaspoon   doves,        I   t.-aspoons   soda. 

MAIUORIK  BENNETT. 
Ml    BEEAE 

2  cups  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt,  l  cup  sugar, 
::  cups  graham  flour,  1%  cups  white  flour,  1  cup  nuts,  1  teaspoon 
1. a  king  powder.     Bake  f>0  minutes  in  slow  oven.        MRS.  J.  Y.  WILHOIT. 

M  T   BBEAB 

4  cups  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  sift  all  to- 
gether, add  1  egg,  1%  cups  sweet  milk.  1  cup  ground  nuts.  Put  in 
buttered  pan  and  let  raise  20  minutes.     Bake  slowly  1  hour. 

MRS.  E  COVEY. 
WAFFLES 

2  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  sugar,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  2  cups  milk,  4  eggs,  3  tablespoons  melted  butter. 
Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  add  butter  and  milk.  Add  egg  yolks  well 
beaten.  Fold  in  egg  whites  beaten  stiff.  Cook  on  hot  waffle  iron  that  has 
been   well  greased.  ELIZABETH   SEXTON. 

SOFT  BIHGEB  BBEAD 
Vi    cup    sugar,        V&    cup    butter.        1    cup    molasses.        1    teaspoon    each 
of    cinnamon,    cloves,    ginger.      Beat    thoroughly,    add    2V*    cups    flour,        2 
scant  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  cup  boiling  water,  add  2  well  beaten  eggs 
last,  before  baking.  MRS.  OSCAR  M.  GILBERT. 

SOFT  QDIGEB  BEEAE 
1   cup  molasses,       1   cup   boiling   water,       Vfc    cup   shortening.        %    tup 
sugar,       1  teaspoon   cloves,       1   teaspoon   cinnamon,       1    tablespoon   ginger, 
2  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  the  hot  water,       2  eggs.       2  cups  flour. 

MRS.    EDNA    FORBES. 
GEEMAH  TOAST 

3  eggs,  %  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  6 
slices  stale  bread.  Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  salt,  sugar,  and  milk,  strain 
into  a  shallow  dish.  Soak  bread  in  mixture  until  soft.  Cook  on  a  hot,  well 
greased  griddle.  Brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  other  side.  Serve 
for  breakfast  or  luncheon,  or  with  sauce  for  dessert.   DORIS  PINXELL. 

STEAMED  BBOWH  BEEAE 
\>/z   cups  sour   milk.       1   teaspoon   soda   in   milk.       1   cup   molasses.       1 
teaspoon    salt,        1%    cups    graham    flour,        1%    cups    white    flour,        1    cup 
raisins,        %    cup   sugar.      Steam    three    hours    then    remove    lids    from    HUM 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  15  minutes.  MRS.  S.  P.  TITl 

Page  43 


BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD 

1  cup  rye  meal  (or  1  cup  flour),  %  tablespoon  soda,  1  cup  gran- 
ulated corn  meal,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  graham  flour,  %  cup  molas- 
ses, 2  cups  sour  milk  or  1%  cups  sweet  milk  or  water,  1  cup  raisins 
or  nuts.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  molasses  and  milk,  stir  un- 
til well  mixed,  turn  into  a  well-buttered  mould,  and  steam  3%  hours.  The 
cover  should  be  buttered  before  being  placed  on  mould,  and  then  tied 
clown  with  string,  otherwise  the  bread  in  rising  might  force  off  cover. 
Mould  should  never  be  filled  more  than  2-3  full.  One  lb.  baking  powder 
cans  make  attractive  molds.  For  straining  if  a  strainer  is  not  conven- 
ient, the  molds  may  be  placed  on  a  trivet  in  kettle  containing  bailing  water, 
allowing  water  to  come  halfway  up  around  mould,  cover  closely  and  steam, 
adding  as  needed  more  toiling  water.     A  large  roasting  pan  is  quite  con- 

MARY  P.  PHIPPS. 
WAFFLES   (Sweet  Milk) 

%  cup  flour,  y%  cup  sweet  milk,  14  egg,  %  teaspoon  salt,  1 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  Sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  milk  to  V4,  egg  (beaten 
slightly),  mix  with  dry  ingredients.    Fold  in  the  melted  butter. 

BERTHA  PI  NX  ELL. 


Page  44 


Page  45 


Page  46 


SOUPS 

CONSOMME 

Cut  meat  from  soup  bone,  melt  1  tablespoon  sugar  in  kettle,  add 
sliced  onion  and  meat  and  brown  good.  Add  bones  and  about  3  qts. 
water  (depends  on  size  of  bones),  then  soup  greens  (carrots,  onions,  tur- 
nips, tomatoes,  etc.).  Simmer  3  or  4  hours.  Strain  and  put  aside  until  ready 
to  heat  for  serving.  ANNE  R.  ZIMMERMAN. 

LIMA  BEAN  PUREE 

Soak  1  pt.  of  dry  beans  over  night,  skin  them  and  put  on  to  cook 
slowly  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  3  pints  or  more  water,  salt  and 
pepper.      Cook  for  hour  or  so.  Just  before  serving  add  y2  pint  cream. 

MRS.  OSCAR  M.  GILBERT,  Princeton,  Ind. 
(REAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP 

1  qt.  tomatoes,  *4  teaspoon  soda,  4  tablespoons  butter,  4  table- 
spoons flour,  1  qt.  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  y2  teaspoon  pepper. 
Stew  tomatoes  *&  hour,  rub  through  strainer,  heat  and  add  soda.  Melt 
butter  and  stir  in  flour,  cook  slowly,  add  milk  slowly  until  thick.  Add 
seasoning.  MRS.  JOHN  BARRY. 

CORN  CHOWDER 

*4  can  corn  and  1  can  tomatoes  in  one  kettle  cooking,  1  cup  diced 
onions  and  potatoes,  cooking  in  another  kettle,  when  onions  and  potatoes 
are  tender  pour  all  together  and  when  they  come  to  a  boil,  pour  in  as 
much  milk  as  you  want  soup,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  butter  size  of 
walnut.  The  vegetables  will  take  up  the  acid  in  tomatoes,  will  not  curdle. 

MRS.  RUTH  MOODY. 
TRY  THIS  GREEN  SOUP  ONCE 

Try  this  green  soup  once,  then  use  your  own  ingenuity  with  other 
proportions.  Even  the  children  will  learn  to  like  spinach  and  other 
green  vegetables  which  are  so  important  in  the  daily  diet: 

For  five  servings  take  2  or  3  leaves  of  Swiss  chard  or  a  small  hand- 
ful of  spinach,  1  stalk  of  celery,  1  small  onion,  1  strip  of  bacon,  1 
or  2  of  the  tender  leaves  of  beets  and  turnips  and  a  bit  of  parsley.  Put 
all  through  the  meat  grinder,  juice  and  all.  Add  enough  water  to  make 
five  servings.  Cook  thirty  minutes  or  until  onion  is  cooked.  Season  with 
salt  and  paprika  and  *4  cup  cream  or  milk  if  desired.  Any  of  the  green 
leaves  with  celery,  onion  and  tomato  make  a  good  combination. 

EDNA  TRUMAN,  Coles  County  Home  Adviser. 


Page  47 


VEGETABLES 

BAKU)  BEANS 

2  pts.  beans,  l  can  tomatoes,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup 
chipped  fresh  pork,  salt  and  pepper  and  a  fourth  pod  of  red  pepper. 
Cook  beans  over  night.  Rub  tomatoes  through  colander.  Bake  slowly  in 
st one  jar  for  B  of  6  hours.  Keep  adding  water.  IDA  BANK. 

I  in:\<  II  SPAGHETTI  (Tomatoes) 
%    box    spaghetti,        1    pt.    tomatoes,        2    onions,        3    slices    of    bacon 
cut   in   hits   and    fried   till    brown,   pour   in   tomatoes,  fat   also.     Salt,   pepper. 
Cook  in  oven.  MRS.  CHAS.  KIRCHN1 

SWEDISH  TIM  KALES 

%  cup  flour.  \'->  cup  milk.  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  egg\  1  teaspoon 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  olive  oil.  Method:  Beat  the  egg  thoroughly  and 
add  the  milk  and  olive  oil.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  the 
a  ••!  to  the  dry,  beat  until  smooth. 

Frying — Heat  the  fat  as  for  doughnuts,  use  a  deep  dish  and  hold  the 
iron  in  the  hot  fat  until  thoroughly  heated  through.  Dip  the  hot  iron  in- 
to the  batt?r  to  within  a  fourth  of  an  inch  of  the  top.  Place  immediately 
into  the  hot  fat.  If  the  iron  is  too  hot  the  batter  will  slip  off  the  iron. 
If  too  cool  the  batter  will  stick  to  the  iron.  Fry  to  a  delicate  brown  and 
drain  on  a  plain  paper.  Use  for  creamed  peas,  mushrooms,  salmon, 
creamed  chicken,  etc.  Makes  3  dozen  timbales. 

ZELLAH  BLESSING. 
PEA  TIMBALES 

1  can  peas  or  %  can  pea  pulp,  3  eggs,  2  cups  milk,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  y$  teaspoon  pepper,  and  speck  of  cayenne.  Rub  peas  through 
sieve.  Add  beaten  eggs,  milk  and  seasoning.  Mix  and  pour  into  butter- 
ed individual  molds.  Set  in  shallow  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake.  Turn 
out  on  deep  platter  and  pour  2  cups  thin  white  sauce,  mixed  with  peas. 
May  be  garnished  with  parsley.  MRS.  JOHN  BARRY. 

CHEESE  SAUCE 

Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  double  boiler,  add  1  tablespoon  flour 
and  blend.  Add  1  cup  of  hot  milk  and  season  with  paprika,  or  real  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste,  add  1  cup  of  grated  cheese.  When  all  melts  and 
thickens,  serve  over  hot  mashed  potatoes  in  cone  shape. 

MRS.  ED  HUTTON. 


Page  48 


SANDWICHES 


EMERGENCY    SANDWICH 

When  out  on  a  fishing  trip  and  not  very  well  prepared  for  picnic- 
ing,  use  the  following  with  variations:  Take  a  biscuit,  chop  into  with  the 
oxe,  spread  plenty  of  butter  on  with  the  spade,  put  in  the  middle  a  large 
slab  of  fried  bacon,  season  with  thoughts  of  home  and  eat  with  a  relish. 

MRS.  E.  J. 
SUGGESTIONS  FOR  SANDWICHES 
1 — Equal  parts  of  finely  cut  nuts  and  grated  cheese  with  salad  dress- 
ing. 

2 — Equal  parts  of  grated  cheese  and  olives  cut  fine  with  mayonnaise. 
3 — Equal  parts  of  cream  cheese  and  pimento. 

(Domestic  Science  Cook  Book)    DELILAH  NAY. 

WINDSOR  SANDWICHES 

Cream  1-3  cup  butter,  add  %  cup  each  of  finely  chopped  ham  and 
cold  boiled  chicken.  Season  with  salt  and  paprika.  Spread  between  thin 
slices  of  bread.  Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book. 

LOBSTER  SANDWICHES 

Chop  lobster  meat.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne,  made  mustard,  and 
lemon  juice,  or  moisten  with  salad  dressing.  Spread  mixture  on  crisp  let- 
tuce leaves  and  prepare  as  other  sandwiches. 

Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book. 


Page  4Q 


PUDDINGS 


CHOKY   PUDDING 

Make  real  short  pie  crust,  line  cake  pan,  pour  juice  from  one  qt.  cher- 
ries, put  in  pie  shell  then  beat  yolks  of  2  eggs,  %  cup  sugar,  1  pt.  milk, 
•_  tablespoons  flour.  Pour  this  on  your  cherries,  then  bake,  when  done  add 
beaten  whites  ami  brown,  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

BLANCHE  DAVIS. 

(  iioky  PUDDING 

Line  shallow  pan  with  inch  pie  dough  (shortened  with  butter).  Beat 
together  %  cup  butter,  lVfc  cup  sugar  and  yolks  of  six  egg's  (well  beaten), 
;  (Id  V&  cup  thick  cream,  2  or  3  tablespoons  flour,  and  flavor  with  vanil- 
la. Drain  1  qt.  of  canned  sweetened  cherries  and  add  to  mixture.  Stir.  Pour 
in  pan  and  bake  slowly  one  hour.  Cut  in  squares  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream  or  sauce.  N'ELLE  K.  BRISCOE. 

!»ati;  pudding 

1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  4  tablespoons  rolled  crackers,  4  tablespoons 
Hour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  y%  cup  milk,  1  cup  dates,  1  tup 
aats.  Servo  witli  sauce  or  whipped  cream.  Serves  six. 

MARY  E.  BOYER. 
DATE  PUDDING 
9  tablespoons  cracker  crumbs,  2  tablespoons  baking  powder,  1  lb. 
unsholled  English  walnuts,  %  lb.  dates,  6  eggs,  1%  cups  sugar.  Beat 
yolks  until  light  and  creamy.  Add  sugar,  chopped  nuts  and  dates  and 
tracker  crumbs.  Beat  whites  stiff  and  to  them  add  the  baking  powder. 
Then  carefully  fold  the  whites  into  the  other  ingredients.  Bake  in  a  shal- 
low buttered  tin  in  very  slow  oven  for  30  or  45  minutes.  When  done  cut 
in  inch  cubes  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  in  frappe  glasses. 

MRS.  W.  II.  FONGER. 
RAISIN  PUDDING 
Cream  2  tablespoons  butter  with  2  of  sugar,  add  2  well  beaten  eggs, 
1  cup  milk,  2  cups  fine  bread  crumbs  and  1  cup  (heaping)  cleaned  and 
seeded  raisins.  Mix  and  pour  in  a  well  greased  tube  pan  and  steam  for 
one  hour.  Put  cloth  over  pan  to  absorb  moisture.  Serve  with  the  following 
sauce. 

Pudding  Sauce 

1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour,  lump  of  butter  size  of  walnut,  a 
little  nutmeg.  Mix  and  add  1  pt.  boiling  water,  let  simmer  on  back  of 
stove  until  done.  MRS.  E.  A.  MOCK.  319  Madison  St.  Charleston.  111. 

DATE  WAI.MT  PUDDING 

2  eggs,        2    tal  lespoons    flour,        1    teaspoon    baking    powder,        1    cup 
chopped    English    walnut-.        1   cup   dates,       %    cup    sugar.      Beat   eggs   and 
Add    sugar,   sift   flour   and   baking   powder   together!    add    walnuts    and    dates. 
Put  in  greased  pan,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon.   Bake  about  30  minutes.  S 
with  whipped  cream  in  individual  glasses. 

MRS.  WILLIS   McLAOt,  Ashmore.  111. 
PINEAPPLE  TAPIOCA 

2-3  Cap  minute  tapioca,       8   cups  COld   water.       juice  of  1   orange.       juice 

of  i  lemon,  l  teaspoon  sparkling  gelatine,  l'-h  cap  su^ar.  l1*.  cups 
pineapple  juice,  1  cup  pineapple  cut  fine.  Soak  gelatine  in  3  tablespoons 
cold  water.  Cook  tapioca  in  8  caps  water  till  clear.  Add  to  tapioca  softened 
gelatine  and  Bngar.    Serve  with  whipped  cream.  MAMIE  HONN. 

Page  50 


MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING 

Beat  whites  of  4  eggs  very  stiff,  add  1  cup  sugar,  and  1  envelope  of 
Knox  gelatine  dissolved  first  in  y2  cup  cold  water,  then  %  cup  boiling 
water.  Add  20  marshmallows  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  beat  until  it  be- 
gins to  stiffen.  Add  %  cup  nuts  to  %  the  amount  and  pour  in  deep  loaf 
pan.  Color  remainder  pink,  add  %  cup  chopped  candied  cherries,  and 
pour  on  white  part.  When  cold  turn  out  and  slice.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  CLARICE  HONN. 

STEAMED  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

1  egg.  Vz  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  y2  cup  sweet 
miik,  1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder,  1  cup  flour,  1  square  Baker's 
chocolate   (grated).     Steam  1  hour.     Serve  with  butter  sauce. 

LUCY  S.  XEAL. 
STEAMED  MOLASSES  PUDDING 

3  cups  flour,  1  cup  each  of  molasses,  melted  butter,  hot  water,  raisins, 
and  nuts,     1  teaspoon  soda.     Steam  3  hours. 

Sauce 

Cream  1  cup  butter  and  2  cups  sugar,  heat  in  double  boiler.  Add  2 
eggs  beaten  in  wine  glass  of  wine  (or  vinegar  and  water).  Cook  until 
thick  and  smooth.  EXIA  P.  HOPKINS. 

CHOCOLATE  PUFE  PUDDING 

V4  cup  butter,  y2  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  1*4  cups  flour, 
IV2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  teaspoons  melted  chocolate,  1  egg. 
Add  a  few  nuts  or  raisins.  Put  in  greased  cups  and  steam  30  to  40  min- 
ute?.    Serve  with  sauce. 

Sauce 

%  cup  sugar,  lump  butter,  1  teaspoon  flour,  melt  until  brown,  add 
V2  pint  milk,     hoil  until  thick.  VOXA  S.  WEBRIGHT. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

14  cup  pearl  tapioca  or  V/2  cup  minute  tapioca,  2  cups  scalded 
milk,  2  eggs,  1-3  cup  sugar,  y»  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Pick  over  tapioca  and  soak  in  cold  water  to  cover,  drain,  add  to  milk  and 
cook  in  double  boiler  until  tapioca  is  transparent.  Add  egg  yolks  beaten, 
sugar  and  salt.  Cook  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  beaten  whites 
and  flavoring.     Serve  when   cold.  ELIZABETH   SEXTOX. 

BAKED  APPLE  TAPIOCA 

Stir  y2  cupful  tapioca  into  2  cupfuls  boiling  water,  add  2-3  cupful 
sugar,  a  little  butter,  1-3  teaspoontul  salt,  and  cook  15  minutes,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  thickened.  Peel  and  core  G  firm  apples,  place  in 
baking  dish,  fill  the  cavities  in  the  apples  with  sugar  and  butter,  pour 
the  tapioca  around  the  apples,  and  1  ake  until  apples  are  tender  but  not 
broken.     Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream.  MRS.  AXXA  HALL. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  PINEAPPLE  PUDDING 

I  package  lemon  or  vanil'a  jello,  \  pint  hot  water,  \  pint  pineapple  juice, 
h  cup  sugar.  Let  cocl  and  just  before  it  begins  to  set,  whip  to  a  froth  and 
add  I  pint  whipped  cream,  1  cup  nut  me»ts.  9  or  10  marshmallows  and  4  slices 
pineapple.  MRS.  W.  H.   BARR. 

PINEAPPLE  PUFF 

1  pint  thick  cream,  h  Jb  marshmallows.  1  small  can  grated  pine- 
apple. J  cup  sugar.  V\  hip  cream  very  stiff,  add  marshmallows  cut 
in  fourths.  Stir  well  (drain  juice  from  pineapples  and  u.-,e  onlv  ,jinp).  Then 
stir  pineapple  and  sugar  in  cream.     Let  stand   2  or  '■)  hours,  or  over  night. 

Page  51 


PBB8DU0H  PUDDING 

V4  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  qt.  persimmons  after  rub- 
bing througli  colander,  1  qt.  buttermilk,  3  level  teaspoons  of  soda  ad- 
ded to  sour  milk,      2  teaspoons  baking  powder,       3  cups  flour. 

MRS.   KATE  HENRY. 
IDA  SMITH. 

PBUNE  whip 

1-3  lb.  prunes,  wbites  of  5  eggs,  %  cup  sugar,  %  tablespoon 
lemon  Juice.  Pick  over  and  wash  prunes,  then  soak  several  hours  in 
i  old  water.  Cook  in  same  water  until  soft.  Remove  stones  and  run  through 
trainer.  Add  sugar  and  cook  5  minutes.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff. 
Add  prune  mixture  when  cold,  and  lemon  juice.  Pile  lightly  in  butt) 
baking  dish.     Bake  20  minutes  in  slow  oven.     Servo  with  whip  cream. 

ELIZABETH  SEXTON. 
APRICOT  SPONGE 

1  pt.  of  strained  fruit,  2  egg  whites  or  1  cup  whipped  cream,  or  1 
egg  white  and  r/z  cup  whipped  cream.  Press  through  Bieve  or  colander. 
Cook  into  jelly.  Cool  When  half  cool,  beat  in  egg  or  whipped  cream.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream  on  top.  ZELLA  LOVB9LB8S 

BROWN  PUDDING 

2  cups  cold  water,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  batter.  Let 
come  to  a  boil.  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  butter.  2  teaspoons 
cinnamon.  Beat  these  together.  Add  1  cup  dates  or  raisins  and  nuts,  1 
cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  V/2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Put  batter  in 
above  sauce  and  bake.  FLOSSIE  SLATER. 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDING8 

1  qt.  milk,  yolk  4  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  pt.  bread  crumbs,  grated 
rind  of  2  lemons.  Bake  until  solid,  let  cool,  spread  over  top  layer  of 
jelly,  thin  on  top  of  jelly,  spread  beaten  whites  with  V4  cup  sugar,  the 
juice  of  the  2  lemons  and  brown.     Serve   with  any  white   pudding  sauce. 

K  ITT  IE  PI. WELL. 
IMAGINATION  PUDDING 

2  eggs,  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  |  tablespoons  sugar,  speck 
of  salt.  Beat  yolks  slightly,  add  sugar,  lemon  juice,  and  salt,  then  cook 
over  hot  water  until  mixture  thickens  slightly.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  wbites 
of  eggs.    Turn  in  dish  and  chill.     Berre  with  Lady's  fingers. 

MRS.  W.  H.  FONGER. 
BAVARIAN   CBEA1 
1   pt.   pineapple  cut  very   fine,        1   cup   sugar,   mixed   and    simmer   for   10 
minutes,  stir  in  1  envelope  Knox  sparkling  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked 
in   juice   from    pineapple,   and   set   away    to   get   cold.   Whip    1    pt.   cream    and 
mix  with  Vfc  cup  English  walnuts. 

INEZ  A.   MOCK.  811  Madison  Ave..  Charleston.   111. 

PUDDING 

1  cup  raisins,  Vfc  cup  butter  or  other  shortening,  1  cup  sugar.  1 
teaspoon  each  Of  ground  cloves  and  cinnanion.  1  cup  hot  water  (boil  2 
minutes).     When   cool,  add    PL.    cups   flour.        1    teaspoon    soda.      Hake   slowly. 

Sauce 

2  cups  sugar  and  1  cup  I  utt<  r  creamed,  add  1-!!  cup  vinegar  and  8-3 
(ii]i  water.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  then  stir  in 
Slowly  -  well   beaten  eggs.     Can  be  kept   for  days  in  COOl   place.     Serve  hot. 

MRS.  W.   R.  F. 

Page  52 


MOL ASSES  PUDDING 

1  cup  melted  butter,  1  cup  hot  water,  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  sor- 
ghum or  dark  syrup,  1  even  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  allspice  and  2 
of  cinnamon,      3  cups  flour.     Steam  3  hours  in  double  boiler. 

Sjiuoe 
1  cup  sugar,       1  pt.  boiling  water,       salt.     Cook  15  minutes.  1  tablespoon 
cornstarch  and  lump  of  butter  and  flavoring  to  taste. 

FLOATING  ISLAM) 

1  qt.  milk,  y2  cup  sugar,  4  egg  yolks,  %  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon 
flavoring.  Beat  eggs  sliglitly.  Add  sugar.  Stir  in  milk  and  flavor- 
ing. Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  knife  inserted  comes  out  clean.  Garnish 
with  Meringue. 

2  egg  whites,  %  cup  sugar.  Beat  egg  whites  stiff  and  dry.  Add 
sugar.  Cut  and  fold  together.  Drop  in  spoonfuls  on  cold  custard 

ELIZABETH  SEXTON. 
NTT  PUDDING 
2  cups  dark  brown   sugar,       %   cup  water.     Cook   until   a   thick   syrup. 
%  envelope  Knox  gelatine  dissolved,       2  egg  whites  beaten,       1  cup  ground 
nuts.     Beat   the   syrup   into   gelatine,   then   add   eggs   and   nuts.     Mold    and 
serve  with  whipped  cream.  MRS.  T.  S.  WRIGHT. 

PECAN  PUDDING 
6    eggs,        1    teaspoon    vanilla,        1%    cups    sugar,        1    teaspoon    flour, 
o  cups  ground  or  finely  chopped  pecans.     Beat  yolks,  then  add  sugar.     Beat 
whites  lightly  and  add  pecans.     Mix,  stir  in  vanilla  last,  sift  in   1  teaspoon 
Hour.     Bake  in  two  tins,  put  together  with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  L.  L.  PIXNELL.  New  Haven,  111. 
SNOW  PUDDING  OR  LEMON  SPONGE 
%  envelope  Knox  gelatine,  *4  cup  cold  water,  %  cup  sugar,  XA 
lemon  juice,  whites  of  2  eggs,  1  cup  boiling  water.  Soak  gelatine  in 
cold  water  5  minutes,  dissolve  in  boiling  water,  add  sugar,  lemon  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  strain  and  set  aside,  occasionally  stir  mixture 
and  when  quite  thick  beat  with  wire  spoon  until  frothy.  Add  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  stiff  and  continue  beating  until  it  stands  alone. 

ZENOBIA  SHAVER. 


-w^a-^z/rt 


r 


t 


7? 


J$C  i 


Page  53 


Page  54 


Page  55 


SALADS 

CHEESE  straws 
(Serve   with   any   salad) 
1  cup  grated  cheese,       1  cup  flour,       1  teaspoon   salt,       %   cup  butter. 
i. inch  cayenne  pepper.     Prepare  as  pastry.     Roll  thin,  cut  in  narrow  strips, 
and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

SALMON   SALAD 
1   can    salmon.        2    boiled    potatoes    and    2    dill    pickles,        3    or    4    olives, 
celery,        1    small    onion,       3    hard    boiled    eggs.      Vinegar,    pepper    and    salt. 
Use  French's  cream  salad  dressing.  ZELLA   LOVELESS. 

SALMON  SALAD 
Place  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  the  contents  of  M>   can  salmon,  freed  from  oil 
and    lone:-,   and   flaked.      Pour  over  fish   boiled    salmon    dressing   or    mayon- 
naise, then  garnish  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs  and  lemon. 

mrs.  alva  nay. 
cabba<;k  salad 

Shred  cabbage  fine,  add  half  the  quantity  of  celery,  and  Vt  the  quantity 
of  nuts.  Mix  with  cooked  salad  dressing,  made  like  this: — %  tablespoon 
salt,  1%  tablespoons  sugar,  y2  tablespoon  flour,  1%  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  94  cup  milk,  %  cup  vinegar.  Mix  and  cook  in  double 
cooker  until  thick.  1  teaspoon  mustard,       few  grains  cayenne,       yolks  2  eggs. 

MRS.  W.  R.  ZIMMERMAN. 
CABBAGE  SALAD 
1  head  of  cabbage,       1   box   spaghetti,       1   can    pimentos.     Season    with 
salt  and  pepper  and  sugar  and  use  a  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

DRUSILLA  ROWLAND. 
PINEAPPLE  SALAD 
1     can     pineapple,    finely     cut,        y2    lb.     marshmallows,         1    cup     nuts. 
Grapes  or  candied   cherries   may   be   added    too.     Cool    thoroughly,    anil    add 
following  dressing  (which  has  been  chilled)  just  before  serving: 

Juice  from  pineapple,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  cup  sugar, 
butter  size  of  walnut.  Cook  until  smooth  and  add  lemon  juice  or  vinegar 
to  taste.  MRS.    IDA   BANE. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

1  qt.  pineapple  diced,  2  cups  white  grapes,  1  cup  celery,  10c  marsh- 
mallow,  1  package  lemon  jello  dissolved  in  1  pt.  boiling  water,  let 
stand  until  jelly,  pour  over  fruit.  MRS.  C.  O.  BROWN. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD 
y2    lb.    nuts,        v.,    lb.    marshmallows,        1    can    pineapple,        Vb    Pt.    Whip 
cream,      1  tablespoon  sugar.  MRS.  CHAS.  KIRCHNER. 

APPLE  SALAD 

2  cups  chopped  apple,  1  cup  chopped  celery,  3  tablespoons  thick 
cream,  juice  of  1  lemon,  pinch  alt.  Mix  apples  and  celery,  pour 
dressing  over  anil   serve.  EVA    WILHOIT. 

APPLE  SALAD 
G  apples,  Vj  <  up  English  walnuts.  *(,  Cup  cream,  *A  cup  mayon- 
naise dressing,  lettuce  leaves.  Cut  apples  and  walnuts  line,  thin  dress- 
ing with  (lie  cream  when  whipped,  pour  mixture  over  the  apples  and  nuts. 
place  lettuce  1  ...  on  plate,  pile  lightly  on  the  leaves.  Decorate  with 
red  en  rrle  ,     Serve  cold.  ELIZABETH  SEXTON. 

Page  56 


CABBAGE  AM)  PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

1  small  head  cabbage  cut  fine,       1  large  can  pineapple  cut  fine. 

Dressing 
1  egg,       y2   cup  vinegar,       2  tablespoons   sugar,       1   teaspoon   mustard. 
Heat  and  pour  over.  MRS.  L.  T.  ARTERBURX. 

THREE  P.  SALAD 
1    cup  small    peas,        y2  doz.    small  sweet    pickles,        y2  cup     peanuts. 
Drain  peas.     Chop  pickles  and  peanuts.     Mix  all  with  salad  dressing. 

MRS.  W.  H.  FONGER. 
PERFECTION  SALAD 
1  envelope  Knox  gelatine,  y2  cup  cold  water,  y2  cup  vinegar,  1 
pt.  boiling'  water,  juice  of  1  lemon,  2  cans  pimentos,  1  cup  English 
walnuts,  1  teaspoon  salt,  y2  cup  sugar,  1  cup  cabbage  iinely  shredded, 
2  cups  celery  cut  in  small  pieces.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  min- 
utes, add  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  boiling  water,  sugar  and  salt  and  strain. 
When  beginning  to  set,  add  remaining  ingredients.  Turn  into  mould  and 
chill.     Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

ELIZA  MAY  ASHMORE. 
CORA  BRLMKERHOFF. 
MACARONI  SALAD  (Cood) 
y2  doz.  little  sweet  pickles  sliced,       %  lb.  cheese  in  dice,       1  can  pimen- 
tos,       %    cup   chopped    celery    (or   omit),        1    box    boiled    macaroni,       may- 
onnaise dressing.     Serves  twelve.  MRS.  L.   T.  ARTERBURN. 

SHRIMP   SALAD 
To  1  can  shrimp  add  one  bunch  celery  cut  fine,       1  cup  nut  meats   (any 
kind),        bit    onion.      Mix    with    plain    mayonnaise    or    the    Thousand    Island 
dressing.     Serve  over  lettuce.     MRS.  OSCAR  M.  GILBERT,  Princeton,  111. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 
Cold  boiled  or  roast  fowl,       celery,    y2   as  much   as   fowl,       mayonnaise 
or  boiled    dressing,       olives.     Cut   fowl    and    celery   in    %    inch   cubes.     Mix 
with    mayonnaise    or    boiled    salad    dressing.    Garnish    with    celery    tips    and 
olives.  MRS.  ARTHUR  WILHOIT. 

CARROT  SALAD 
Grind    raw    carrots    through    food    chopper    using    medium    fine    grinder. 
(    iinl.iiie  about  2  parts  ground  carrot  and   1  part  chopped  celery  and   chop- 
ped nuts  with  any  good  salad  dressing.     Boiled  dressing  with  whipped  cream 
being  very  satisfactory.     Add  pepper,  salt  and  lemon  juice  to  taste. 

MABEL  P.  BROWN. 
TOMATO  JELLY 
1  qt.  canned   tomatoes,       1   bay  leaf,       6  cloves,       1  spray  parsley,       1 
slice  onion.     Boil  20  minutes,  then  strain   and  return  to  fire.     Add   2  table- 
spoons vinegar  or  juice   of   1   lemon.       4   tablespoons    gelatine    (softened   in 
l'til,'  water),       salt  to  taste  and  add  a  little  cayenne  pepper. 

LUCILE  P.  HUTCHISON. 
BANANA  SALAD 
1  pt.  milk.  salt,  2  eggs,  flavoring.  2  tablespoons  flour,  4  ba- 
r-anas, 1  cup  sugar,  peanuts.  butter.  Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar. 
flour,  and  salt.  Stir  constantly  while  adding  gradually  hot  milk.  Cook  in 
double  boiler,  constantly  stirring  until  mixture  thickens  and  a  coating  is 
formed  on  the  spoon.  Cool  and  add  flavoring  before  combining  with 
the  sliced  bananas.  Add  butter  to  the  custard  if  you  like,  cut  the  peanuts 
fine  and  mix  or  sprinkle  on  top  ELIZA  MAY  ASHMORE. 

Page  57 


PB08B1  FRUT  SALAD 

y^  cup  chopped  cherries,  1  cup  oranges  chopped  fine,  1  cup  ba- 
nanas chopped,       1  cup  pineapple  chopped  fine,       1  cup  salad  dressing. 

Salad    Dressing 

1  cup  cream  whipped,  3  tablespoons  vinegar,  *£  cup  powdered 
sugar,  1  scant  teaspoon  salt,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  Vfc  teaspoon  white  pepper, 
1  teaspoon  sugar,  *£  teaspoon  ground  mustard.  Beat  all  well  together 
and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter or  olive  oil.  After  it  cooks,  add  whipped  cream  and  fruit,  pack  in 
salt  and  ice  for  3  or  4  hours  before  serving.  MARY  P.  PHIPPS. 

CHEESE  SALAD 

Cut  cheese  into  small  cubes,  an  equal  amount  of  celery  into  small 
dices,  and  the  same  quantity  of  stoned  olives  cut  into  rings.  Toss  the  in- 
gredients together  and  serve  with  a  generous  spoonful  of  mayonnaise  on 
a  crisp  lettuce  leaf.  YOXA  S.  WEBRIGH1. 

SHRIMP  OR  CRAB  SALAD 

1  can  shrimp,  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  1  small  sweet  pepper,  %  cup 
chopped  celery.  Soak  shrimp  in  cold  water  yz  hour,  clean  and  drain.  Mix 
with  the  eggs,  celery  and  a  small  amount  of  the  pepper  and  two  tablespoons 
of  oil  mayonnaise.  Stuff  fresh  tomatoes  with  this  and  serve  on  lettuce 
with  some  of  the  dressing  on  top.  MRS.  BRUCE  GILDERSLEEYE. 


"But  for  life  the  universe  were  nothing; 
And  all  that  has  life  requires  nourishment." 


Page  58 


Page  59 


SALAD  DRESSINGS 


THOUSAND  ISLAND  IHlhMM. 
1    Clip    mayonnaise,        1    cop    whipped    cream,        1    cup    Chili    sauce.        1 
tablespoon    Worcestshlre    Banco,       2   tablespoons   pimentos,   Finely   chopped, 
poona  finely  chopped  onion.    Mis  In  order  gii 

ZENOBU    sil.w 
THOUSAND  ISLAM)  SALAD  DBESSERG 
l  pint  pood   ■  Ise,       l   cup  celery,  olives,  nuts   and   bit  of  onion 

cut  fine,       %  cup  chili  sauce,     salt  and  dash  paprika  or  red  pepper,  add  all 
this  to  mayonnaise,  then  fold  in  pint  of  whipped  cream.     Serve  over 
lettut  .  O^CAR  M.  GILBERT,  Princeton,  Ind. 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING 
l  cup  vinegar,  %  cup  sugar,  l  tablespoonful  butter,  put  this  on 
to  boil,  and  mix  together  2  eggs.  !.t  i  up  sweet  cream,  2  level  teaspoons 
of  salt,  cayenne  pepper  size  of  pea,  l  teaspoonfal  of  mustard.  Beat 
thoroughly,  and  when  the  vinegar  boils,  pour  in  the  egg  mixture  in  a 
thin  stream,  stirring  constantly  or  it  will  curdle.  Take  off  stove  Immed- 
iately. TILLY  CARY. 

OIL  HAY0NNAD3E 
1   egg    (or    two   yolks),       juice   of    y2    lemon.      Mix    thoroughly,    add    oil 
drop  by  drop   until   it  begins  to  thicken,  add    *4    teaspoon   salt,   red   pepper 
to  taste,  add  oil  in  larger  quantities  to  thickness  desired. 

MRS.  H.  S.  JUNTQEN. 
MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 
1    teaspoon    mustard,        1    egg    yolk,        1    teaspoon    salt,       2    tablespoons 
lomon    juice,        1    teaspoon    powdered    sugar,        2    tablespoons    vinegar,        F. 
Q.  cayenne,       1*£  cups  vegetable  oil. 

Method:  Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  egg  yolk,  and  when  well 
beaten  add  V2  teaspoonful  vinegar,  add  a  drop  or  two  of  oil,  stirring 
constantly.  Continue  adding  oil  a  few  drops  at  a  time  as  mixture  thick- 
ens and  becomes  o.''  uniform  consistency.  When  the  mixture  becomes  quite 
thick,  add  lemon  Juice  or  vinegar  alternately  with  the  oil,  until  all  is  used. 
always  beating!  the  mixture. 

To  make  Thousand  Island  dressing  add:  1  tablespoon  chopped  pimentos, 
•  cup  olives  chopped,      1  cooked  egg  yolk.      ' ,  teaspoon  paprika. 

ZELLAH   BLESSING. 


Page  60 


Page  6 1 


PRESERVES  AND  PICKLES 

0KAPI  I  LBMALADE 

Wash,  drain  and  item  grapes.  Separate  pulp  from  skins.  Heat  pulp 
slowly  to  boiling  point,  remove  seeds  by  forcing  through  sieve.  Return 
to  kettle  with  skins,  heal  to  boiling,  then  add  equal  weight  of  heated  sugar 
and  cook  Blowly  35  minutes,  stirring  often.     Put  in  stone  jars  or  tumblers. 

MRS.  R.  O.  BTONEBURNER 
CHILI  SAUCE 
18   large   tomatoes,        (J    medium    sized    onions,        3    mangoes,        .".    tabl.- 
spoons    sugar,        3    tablespoons    salt,        3    teacups    vinegar.      Add    apices    U 
desired.  Choi)  tine  and   cook   l   hour.  Make-  r,   pints. 

EXIA  P.  HOPKINS. 
CHILI  SAUCE 
1    pk.    ripo    tomatoes,       5   onions,    boil    1    hour   then    strain,     add    1    cup 
sugar,     and    %    cup   vinegar,        1    tablespoon    black    pepper.        1    tablespoon 
whole  cloves,       1  tablespoon   mustard,       1   tablespoon    cinnamon.       3    table- 
poona   Bait     Tie   spices   in   bag.     Cook   3   hours   or   until    thick.      When    done 
j.ist   ready  to  put   tD  bottle  add   1-3  teaspoon   Krani   pepper. 

MRS.  HARVEY  SMITH. 
CHILI  SAUCE 
8  cits,  tomatoes,       3  cups  sugar,       1V£   qts.   vinegar,       3   teaspoons   cin- 
namon,      3   teaspoons  ground   cloves,       2   teaspoons   nutmeg,       2    teaspoons 
ginger,       2   teaspoons   onions   ground,        1    scant    half   cup   red    peppers,        1 
scant  salt.     Cook  3  hours.  RILL  A  OSBORNE. 

CHILI  SAUCE 
1  pk.  tomatoes,  1  large  onion,  2  large  heads  celery,  6  large  green 
peppers.  Boil  slowly  3  hours,  then  add  1  pt.  vinegar,  2  cups  sugar. 
2  tablespoons  salt,  1  teaspoon  black  pepper,  1  teaspoon  cayenne  pep- 
p<  r  or  less.  Tie  In  bag.  2  tablespoons  each  of  doves,  allspice  and  crushed 
cinnamon   bark.     Cook   for  1   hour,  or  until   as  desired. 

ANNE  It.  ZIMMERMAN. 

CUCUMBEB  PICKLES 

Wash  thoroughly  with  a  brush.  Make  strong  brine,  soak  over  night. 
Put.  in  kettle  covered  with  vinegar,  weakened  almost  half.  Put  in  red  pep- 
per to  suit  taste,  heal  through  but  not  boll,  have  another  kettle  with  vin- 
egar,  2  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  spices,  boiling  hot.  Pack  in  jars,  with 
little  red  or  green  peppers  sliced  and  horseradish,  pour  over  the  hot  pre- 
pared   vinegar,   and    seal.  MRS.    ED    BTUTTON. 

CUCUMBEB  PICKLES 

Soak  in  brine  3  days  that  will  balance  an  egg.  Take  from  brine  and 
put  in  (dear  water  for  20  hours,  or  until  they  taste  fresh.  Then  put  them 
in  alum  water  for  about  a  day.  Using  a  piece  Of  alum  the  size  of  the 
end  of  your  little  finger  to  the  qt.  of  water.  Sweeten  and  spice,  vinegar 
to  suit    taste,   heat    vinegar,   place    plcklefl   in    vinegar   and   heat    good    and    hot. 

then  take  pickles  and  place  in  cans,  then  heat   rinegar  until  it  la  boiling, 

then    pour    over    pickles    and    seal.  VIOLA    SIMPSON. 

CHEBK1   PBESEBTE8 

To  5  CUPS  se.ded  (berries  squeezed  dry.  add  8  nips  sugar,  put  sugar 
over  cherriee  until  BUgar  is  dissolve. 1  then  boll  hard  20  minutes. 

MRS.  I,    T.  ARTERBURN. 

Page  62 


GRAPE  CONSERVE 

5  lbs.  grapes,  4  lbs.  sugar,  3  oranges,  2  lbs.  raisins.  Grind  or 
chop  oranges.  Mix  all  together  and  cook  quickly.  Use  nuts  if  desired. 
(Recipe  makes  7  pints).  MRS.  A.  B.  BRADFORD. 

ELIZA  J.  HENRY. 
APPLE  AND  QUINCE  JELLY 
1   cup   apple   juice,       1   cup   sugar,       14    cup   quince   juice.     Pour   jelly 
ever  preserved   cherries.  MRS.   FRANK   NEAL. 

COLD  PACK  PEACHES 
Pack    the    prepared    fruit    in    the    jars    after    blanching,    fill    with    hot 
syrup,  about  2  or  3  parts  water  and  1  part  sugar.     Blanch  or  scald   %  min- 
ute.    Boil  16  minutes.  MRS.  HARVEY  SMITH. 
SWEET  PICKLE  PEACHES 
Take   7    lbs.   ripe   but   firm   cling   peaches    (peeled),       place   in   earthen 
or   granite   ware   receptacle,   over   these   pour   3   lbs.   sugar   and    1   pt.   vine- 
gar,   cover    closely    and    let    stand    24    hours,    or    thereabout,    then    drain 
this    syrup    off,   heat    to    boiling    point,    return    to    peaches,    repeat    this    on 
next  day,  then  on  third  day  put  all  on  stove  together  addiug  nearly  a  table- 
spoon  each   of   stick  cinnamon   and   whole   cloves.     Cook   until   peaches   are 
done,  place  in  jars  and  seal.                                       MRS.  HOMER  BENNETT. 

SPICED  PEACHES 
Peel  nicely,  good  yellow  clings  until  you  have  5  lbs.,  put  in  kettle, 
cover  with  water  and  cook  until  tender,  lift  out  carefully  with  skimmer, 
and  put  on  an  earthen  dish.  Make  a  syrup  of  three  lbs.  of  sugar  and  1 
pt.  vinegar,  add  some  stick  cinnamon  and  a  few  cloves,  boil  until  clear, 
put  in  peaches  and  cook  slowly  for  twenty  minutes.     Put  in  glass  cans. 

MRS.  E.  J.  McCONNAHA. 
CELERY  PICKLE 
1  gal.  chopped  cabbage,  y2  gal.  chopped  cucumbers,  6  green  peppers 
(chopped),  1  cup  of  grated  horse-radish,  3  bunches  chopped  celery 
tlarge  bunches),  %  cup  white  mustard  seed,  1  lb.  sugar  and  1  level 
tablespoon  salt.  Mix  thoroughly,  put  in  jar,  cover  with  good  vinegar.  Place 
a  weight  on  top.  MRS.  W.  S.  WILEY. 

SLICED  TOMATO  PICKLES 
Slice  together  12  large  green  tomatoes  and  3  onions,  salt  and  let  stand 
2  hours.  Pour  on  boiling  water,  let  cool  and  drain.  Boil  together  cider 
vinegar,  2  or  3  sticks  of  cinnamon,  6  cloves,  3  red  peppers,  a  little  black 
pepper  and  y2  cup  light  brown  sugar.  Strain  and  pour  hot  over  pickles, 
let  stand  over  night,  pour  off  and  boil  the  syrup  for  2  mornings.  Add 
horse-radish   and  seal.  MRS.   ED   HUTTON. 

SPICED  BEETS 
Cook  and   peel   young  beets,  boil   2   pints   sugar   in   1   pint   vinegar   and 
a   small   amount  of  cinnamon,   cloves   and   allspice   done   up   in   cloth,   pour 
ever  till  covered  and  seal  while  hot.   (May  flavor  to  taste). 

MATILDA  GRUBBS. 
MUSTARD   PICKLES    (Cucumber) 
1  cup  mustard,       1  cup  salt,       2  cups  sugar,       flour,       1  gal.  vinegar. 
Mix  all  and  stir.  Pack  pickles  in  glass  jar  and  pour  mixture  over. 

MRS.  S.  P.  TITUS. 
CANNED  CORN 
18  pints  corn,       1  pint  salt,       1  pint  sugar.     Add  a  small  bit  of  water. 
Cook  till  milk  is  set.     Can  in  tin  or  glass.         MRS.  EDWARD  PARKER. 

Page  63 


DILL  Pl(  KLKS 

Wash  cucumbers  and  split  if  large.  Fill  jar  with  cucumbers,  placing 
£  little  dill  in  both  top  and  bottom  of  jar.  Pour  over  them:  1  qt.  vinegar, 
3  qts.  water,  1  cup  salt,  boiling  hot.  Place  cans  in  boiling  water  as  in 
cold  packing,  until  the  cucumbers  change  color,  or  just  enough  to  heat 
thoroughly.  ETHEL  P.  GREATHOUSE. 

60EM   SALAD 

12  ears  corn,  1  head  cabbage,  6  mangoes,  6  stalks  celery,  1 
teaspoonful  tumeric,  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  qt.  vinegar,  1  cup  sugar, 
mustard  seed  to  suit  taste.  Cook  20  minutes  after  beginning  to  boil.  Then 
can.  MRS.  O.  Z.  SMITH. 

SWEET   CHFNK   PICKLES 

7  lbs.  large  cucumbers.  Soak  in  brine  (which  will  bear  up  an  egg)  for 
3  days,  then  soak  in  clear  water  3  days.  Cut  in  chunks  about  1  inch  long 
and  simmer  (do  not  boil)  for  2  hours  in  vinegar  weakened  half  and  to 
which  alum  size  of  walnut  has  been  added.  Drain  and  put  in  cans.  Boil 
for  5  minutes:  3  lbs.  sugar,  3  pints  vinegar,  1  oz.  celery  seed,  1  oz. 
cinnamon  bark,  pour  over  pickles  and  seal. 

MRS.  C.   X.  WIGGINTON,  Oakland.   111. 


Page  64 


Page  65 


MISCELLANEOUS 

CAULIFLOWER  ((reamed) 
Place   cauliflower   in    salted    water    for   one   hour.     Boil    until    tender    in 
:  ■■  .-!;    salted    water,    put    in    dl8fa    whole    and    pow    OfWt    .-'.'. u«  e    mad.-    with    MM 
tablespoon  of  butter,       1  heaping  teaspoon  flour,       salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
<  no  cup  c^eam.     When  taking  sauce  from  fire  beat  in  the  yolk  of  one  egg. 

BXIA  P.  HOI'KI 
APPLE   r  HITTERS 
1   cap  flour,       1  egg,       Vfe   cup  milk,       2  teaspoons  baking  powder,       :*, 
or  4  chopped  apples.     Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  add   beaten   egg,  beaten, 
then  apples  ami  try  in  smoking  fat  like  doughnuts. 

EVA  WILIIOIT. 
APPLE  FRITTERS 
4    large   apples,       1    tablespoon    lemon    juice,       2    tablespoons    powdered 
sugar.      Peel    and    core    apples    and    cut    into    dices.    Add    sugar    and    lemon 
juice  into  plain   fritter  batter.     Fry   it   light  brown   in  deep  fat.     Drain   and 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

Plain  Batter — 1  cup  flour,  *4  teaspoon  salt,  2-3  cup  milk.  1^  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  1  egg.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  egg 
and  milk.  Beat  until  smooth.  BERTHA   PIXXELL. 

(  RAJfBERRY  JELLY 
1    qt.    cranberries,       1    cup   water,       2    cups    sugar.     Pour    water    over 
cranberries  and   cook   for   a   short   time   until    berries   burst   open.      Remove 
from  fire,  put  through  colander.  Stir  in  sugar  and   Dut  to  cool,  without  re- 
heating. LUCILE  P.  HUTCHISOX. 
CHEESE  SOUFFLE   (Chafing  Dish) 
%  lb.  cheese,       4  eggs,       1  cup  milk,       2  tablespoons  butter,       2  table- 
spoons flour,       mustard,   salt,   and   cayenne,  a   pinch  of  each.     Make   white 
sauce  with  milk,  flour,  salt,  cayenne  and    mustard.   Add   to  this   the   I  eaten 
yolks    of   eggs,    then    the    cheese    cut    in    fine    pieces.    Beat    white    of    egg    to 
troth  and  add.  Cover  and  allow  to  stand   la  minutes  over  hot  water. 

MISS  K.  BISHOP. 
SAUCE  FOR  OYSTER  COCKTAIL 
Ten    dropi    tobaaco    sauce,        %    cup    tomato    catsup.        2    tablespoons 
horse   radish,       juice   of   one    lemon.      Drain    all    juice    off   oysters    and    salt 
them.     Pour  on  dressing  when  ready  to  serve.     Serve  twelve  people. 

K  \THKY.\   X.   WILHOIT. 

SAUTE   BANAK  \s 

Remove  skips,  cut  in  halves  "lengthwise  and  crosswise.  Dredge  with 
flour.     Saute  in   butter.      Drain   and   sprinkle   with   pov.d.  red   BOgar.      Mav   be 

served  at  luncheons.  LBLLA  L0VEELBB8. 

CHEESE  CROQUETTES 

8  tablespoons  butter.      l  cup  mild  cheeae,  cut  In  small  cubes.      *4  cup 

milk.        yolks   of   2    eggs.        %    CUp   grated    gruvre  cheeae,    salt    and    p  tpper, 

i"   c    cayenne.    Method:   Make  a  thick  white  sauce,  using  batter,  flour  and 

milk,    add    yolk:   of   egp;s    without    first    beating,    and    stir    until    well    mixed; 

then   add  grated   ■  soon   as   cheeae   melts   remove  from   fire   end 

li  in  cheeae  cuben  and  season  with  salt,  pepp  r  and  cayenne.  Spread  in  a 
"w    pan    and    COOl.    Turn    <.:>    a    board,    cut     in    small    squares    or    strps. 

dip  in  crumbs,  egs  end  crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep  fat.  and  drain  on  brown 
paper,  s.rve  for  b  cheese  course.  ZBLLAB  BLBB8ING. 

Page  66 


\l  4#ru*P&    UU~ 


•?&sUA4rfL, 


■ 


^z^/j^^s-t-C 


I  " 


Page  67 


o.  w.  vande:vante:r 

Restaurant  and  Confectionary 

Telephone  194  Kansas,  Illinois 

Farms  and  Town  Property 

In  this  and  adjoining  Counties. 
Five  percent  money  on  farm  loans. 

L.  s.  PHIPPS 

Page  68 


Do  You  Know  That  the 
Community  oi  Kansas— 

HAS  a  reputation  second  to  none  for  prize  win- 
ners at  the  greatest  Fat  Stock  Show  in 
the  world. 

HAS  more  prime  beef  on  the  market  every  year 
than  any  other  community  in  the  Corn  Belt. 

HAS  more  pure  bred  hogs  than  any  other  com- 
munity that  we  know. 

HAS  long  been  famous  for  its  draft  horses  and 
good  mules. 

WAS  the  first  town  in  the  Middle  West  to  oil 
the  streets. 

WAS  one  of  the  very  first  to  gravel  its  roads. 

HAS  modern,  well  -  equipped,  comfortable 
churches;  warm  in  winter,  cool  in  summer. 

HAS  schools  that  get  results.  Our  young  men 
and  young  women  make  good. 

HAS  two  National  banks  which  are  sound, 
safe  and  secure. 

KANSAS  is  the  best  town,  in  the  best  com- 
munity, in  the  best  state,  in  the  United 
States— the  whole  world. 

Farmers  National  Bank 

Page  69 


H.  C.  PHIPPS  (£l  CO. 

Hardware,  Furniture  and  Implements 
Stoves,  Pumps  and  Paints 


ashmore:,    : 

:        ;        ILLINOIS 

Dry  Goods  and  Shoes 

Munsingwear 

DR.  R  R.WOODS 

Allen  A  Black  Cat  Hosiery 

Ball  Band  Rubber  Footwear 

Dentist 

Auto  Brand 

Overalls  and  Shirts 

8  to  12  a.  m. 

at 

1  to  5  p.  m. 

Pinnell  &.  Hutton 

KANSAS,  ILLINOIS 

Phone  200 

F.  M.  VICKREY,  Local  Buyer  for 

To/)e  Wadley  Company 

Wholesale  Dealer  in 

POULTRY        -:-        EGGS        <-        BUTTER 

CASH  FOR  CREAM 

Highest  Prices  Paid 

Phone  41  Kansas,  Illinois 


Page  70 


Hopkins  Richelieu  Store 

FOREIGN  AND  DOMESTIC 

FANCY  GROCERIES 

The  House  of  Quality  Always  Dependable 

We  Sell  Service  and  Satisfaction 
— Anyone  Can  Sell  Price 


POINTERS  ON  COFFEE 
And  How  to  Make  It 

Compiled  from  information  developed  in  experimental  work  at  the 
Coffee  Research  department  at  the  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technol- 
ogy. So  many  different  elements  are  a  part  of  "A  Choice  Cup  of  Cof- 
fee."    It  is  worth  while  to  mention  a  few  of  the  most  essential. 

Cheap  or  low  priced  Coffee  is  always  of  the  inferior  grades,  and  is 
expensive  at  any  price. 

Be  sure  the  coffee  you  buy  has  been  verv  recently  roasted,  and  de- 
mand of  your  dealer  that  it  be  fresh  ground  or  steel  cut,  for  as  soon  as 
the  coffee  bean  is  broken  it  begins  to  lose  all  the  Good  qualities  coffee 
possesses.  Never  guess.  Measure  or  weigh.  Never  allow  coffee  to 
boil.  Use  coffee  grounds  but  once.  Use  a  porcelain  lined  vessel  when 
possible;  never  one,  however,  when  enamel  is  cracked  or  broken,  for 
coffee  coming  in  contact  with  most  metals  will  have  a  metal  taste. 

Making  Coffee  in  One  Gallon  Units 

There  are  16  average  size  cups  to  the  gallon  of  liquid.  In  measur- 
ing the  water  allow  1  cup  to  the  gallon  for  evaporation.  In  each  gallon 
of  water  use  7  ounces,  of  coffee  tjround  reasonably  fine.  Place  your 
coffee  in  muslin  bag  which  must  be  large  enough  to  allow  free  circu- 
lation of  water  through  the  coffee.  When  water  in  vessel  comes  to 
brisk  boiling  point  move  to  back  of  stove  where  boiling  ceases,  but 
keep  hot  Insert  your  bag  of  coffee  and  keep  submerged  and  stirring 
for  at  least  3  minutes.  You  can  tell  by  color  and  taste  when  you  have 
the  desired  strength,  remove  your  bag  of  grounds  from  the  vessel.  Your 
coffee  is  made.  Keep  it  hot.  If  you  wish  to  serve  a  hundred  cups, 
base  your  figures  on  the  above  proportions. 

CAUTION  — If  you  see  you  are  running  short,  make  a  fresh  batqh. 
Never  add  more  water  if  you  wish  to  maintain  your  reputation  as  a  good 
coffee  maker. 

Page  yi 


PASTIME  THEATRE 

KANSAS,  ILLINOIS 

This  theatre  is  for  the  entertainment  of  you 
and  your  friends. 

You  will  find  our  programs  composed  of  the 
Best  pictures  produced,  and  shown  at  Popular 
prices. 

Watch  for,  and  save  for  reference,  the  Pro- 
gram announcements  each  week. 

Your  entertainment  and  satisfaction  is  a  pleas- 
ure to  us. 

We  appreciate  your  Patronage. 


CHAS.  KIRCHNE1R 

Kansas,  Illinois 
Dealer  in 

Lumber    and    Building    Material 

We  try  to  please  you,  for  we  want  satisfied 
customers. 

Prices  always  right.  Quality  good. 

Page  J2 


Extract  Vanilla 

Special 

(P.  D.  &  Co.) 

Especially  adapted  for  flavoring  Ice  Creams, 
Ices,  Cakes,  Candies,  Custards,  etc.  Con- 
tains no  artificial  color  or  flavor. 

Gildersleeve  Drug  Co. 

Flavoring  Extracts-Olive  Oil-Pure  Fruit  Colors 


Hardware,  Stoves,  Ranges, 
Furniture 

Rugs  and   Linoleum,  Silverware,  Pyrex  Glassware. 

Agents  for  Maytag 
Multi  Motor  and  Electric  Washers 

Copper  Clad  and  Majestic  Ranges 

Goodrich  and  Goodyear  Auto  Casings  and  Tubes 

Sherwin-Williams  Paints,  Oils  and  Varnishes 

'NQe.  are  \>vev&Te&  \o  s\x^\u.  uout  xjaaxAs  —  Ve\  us  s\voxd  uou 

W.  W.  BARR  &  SONS 

Phones:  Hall,  57;  Mutual,  31  Kansas,  Illinois 

Page  73 


C.  H. 

BANE 

KANSAS 

ILLINOIS 

WRITES 

Fire 

Salesmen's  Sample 

Lightning 

Ocean  and  Inland 

Windstorm  and 

Marine 

Tornado 

Leasehold  and  Im- 

Automobile 

provements 

Sprinkler  Leakage 

Riot,  Civil  Commo- 

Water Damage 

tion  and  Invasion 

Rain 

Life 

Hail 

Accident 

Snow 

Health 

Earthquake 

All    Live    Stock,    in- 

Radium (all  risks) 

cluding    Hogs  and 

Explosion 

Dogs 

Rents  and  Rental 

Compensation 

Values 

Liability 

Profits  and  Commis- 

Property Damage 

sions 

Security  Bonds 

Use  and  Occupancy 

Boiler  Safety 

Mail  Package 

Elecrtic  Motors 

Tourist  Floater 

Plate  Glass 

Trip  Transit 

Holdup 

Transportation  Floater 

Burglary 

And  various  other  kindred   lines  of 

INSURANCE 

REAL  ESTATE  and  LOANS 

Page  74 


Strictly  First-Class  Work 

Done  by 

CHARLESTON  CLEANERS 
AND  DYERS 

Raymond  Westenbarger,  Prop. 

Our  new  plant  is  the  most  modern  and  best  equipped  in 
Eastern  Illinois 

Phone  404,  Charleston,  Illinois 

Gwendolyn  Fritts,  Local  Representative.     Phone  211 


FORBES 


Page  75 


Page  76 


ii 


'^"9 


♦    ♦ 


♦     ■♦♦♦♦♦      4 


♦      ♦♦♦♦♦ 


,j       +  ♦         ♦         ♦         ♦         ♦  ♦ 


£  ♦         ♦         ♦        >         ♦ 

+         ♦         +         +         +         + 


♦  ♦•♦♦♦ 


♦  ♦         ♦         ♦         ♦ 


♦        .♦         ♦         ♦ 


♦  ♦♦♦♦♦ 


#       •  ♦ 


(h, 


♦         ♦         ♦         ♦         ♦ 


♦         ♦ 


