Cookery in the 
PUBLIC Schools 




SALUE JOY WHITE 




^eva fork 
Hatt (S,alltQR of Agriculture 

At QlorneU MniaeraitH 

StJjata, N. % 



IGibracg 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003576315 



COOKERY IN 
THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS 



BY 

SALLIE JOY WHITE 

Author of "House Keepers and Home Makers.' 



Illustrated 



BOSTON 
D LOTHROP COMPANY 

WASHINGTON STREET OPPOSITE BROMFIELD 



Copyright, 1890, 

BY 

D. LoTHROP Company. 



PREFACE. 



In sending out this little book, the result of a careful 
watchfulness of the public school kitchen work, from its 
inception to the piesent time, the hope has been to inter- 
est communities beyond Boston in the idea of industrial 
training in the public schools, and to give the girls them- 
selves some idea of the value of the teaching. Only a 
hint has been given of the real amount of work, but I 
hope it is sufficient to make all who read feel the need of 
increasing it. I am deeply indebted to Miss Homans, 
who has given me access to the schools, allowed me the 
use of the rules, and the privilege of copying the charts 
and tables. If the work of establishing cookery as a 
branch of training in the schools generally is perma- 
nently successful, it will be because of the devoted work 
of this noble woman, who has carried to the finest and 
fullest completion the plans of Mrs. Mary Hemenway, 
who supported the first school kitchen, and now supports 
the Normal Training School for preparing teachers in 
cooking for the public schools. 

Sallie Joy White. 
AsHCROFT, Dedham, 

Alarch 15, 1890. 



TO 

AMY MORRIS ROMANS, 

WITH THE GRATITUDE AND REGARD OF 
THE AUTHOR. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

MASTER ALLEN'S PROPHECY ... 7 

CHAPTER II. 

FIRE-BUILDING 22 

CHAPTER III. 

SOME SIMPLE USES OF THE OVEN ... 40 

CHAPTER IV. 

A LESSON IN BOILING £3 

CHAPTER V. 

GOING TO MARKET . ... 69 

CHAPTER VI. 

MEATS AND MADE-OVERS 83 

CHAPTER VII. 

SOUPS AND STEWS 98 

5 



6 CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER VIII. 
A LESSON IN BATTERS 1 14 

CHAPTER IX. 

BREAD-MAKING . 1 28 

CHAPTER X. 

FISH AND EGG DISHES . . . I39 

CHAPTER XI. 

IhTVALID COOKERY 149 

CHAPTER XII. 

NORMAL TRAINING -164 



COOKERY 



IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS' 



CHAPTER I. 



MASTER ALLEN S PROPHECY. 



WENTY-FIVE years 
ago, Master Allen, the 
head of the Hancock 
School in Boston, 
said contemptu- 
ously: "Teach 
sewing in the pub- 
lic schools ! The 
next thing we know 
they will be for setting 
up cook-stoves in our 
schoolrooms, and asking us to teach the girls to 
make bread and broil beefsteak!" 
7 




8 MASTER Allen's prophecy. 

To Master Allen's mind, that was the very 
height of impossibility ; the very remotest con- 
tingency; and in rnaking the remark he felt that 
he was giving full expression to the fine scorn 
with which he regarded the innovation of needle 
and thimble. 

And yet, what he considered as impossible 
has come about. What do you suppose Master 
Allen would say could he take a peep now, 
during any school day, into the finely-appointed 
kitchen in the basement of the Tennyson Street 
Schoolhouse in Boston, and see the interested 
girls in white caps and aprons, learning how to 
become good housekeepers and cooks ? He 
would be utterly bewildered with it all ; and 
unless he has grown much wiser in his new 
environment, he would think, no doubt, that 
a backward step had been taken in the modes 
of education. 

But people have had time and opportunity to 
learn many things since the stubborn principal 
of the large North End School held such des- 



MASTER Allen's prophecy. 9 

potic sway ; and among the things that have 
been learned is a lesson that it has taken much 
time to impress upon the minds of those who 
have had the public schools and their manage- 
ment in charge. 

It was this : that the education being given 
to the children was a very one-sided one, and 
that while it gave a great deal of information 
that might, or might not, be of value to those 
who obtained it, there was a decided lack of 
practical instruction, so that when the boys and 
girls left the schools, they had absolutely no 
working capital. 

The few people who first felt this truth, and 
dared to speak about it, and to suggest that 
there should be some change in the plan of 
instruction, were laughed at as "silly folk" who 
must find fault with something. The word 
" crank " had not then taken its place in the 
current vocabulary ; but you know nowadays it 
is shouted derisively after every one who dares 
to advance an opinion that differs from the one 



lO MASTER ALLEN S PROPHECY. 

held by the majority. That is what the early 
advocates of industrial education would have 
been called had the word then existed with its 
present significance. 

But all the scorn that was heaped upon the 
advocates of the new education, and all the 
ridicule, could not make them believe them- 
selves anything but right; and by degrees they 
drew other people to their own way of thinking, 
until, before the great public knew anything 
about it, there was a large number of persons, 
including the wisest men and women of the 
time, protesting against this one-sided instruc- 
tion that trained the head at the expense of 
the hands. What these far-sighted people be- 
lieved in, was a school-system that would pro- 
vide an " all round " education. 

The first result of the agitation was the intro- 
duction of sewing into the public schools, as a 
two-hours exercise each week. There were a 
great many protestants against the innovation 
beside Master Allen ; but the reason his protest 



MASTER ALLEN S PROPHECY. H 

is specially remembered is on account of the 
prophecy which it contained. No doubt he 
would have been as unwilling a prophet as he 
was an unconscious one, but a prophet he was, 
notwithstanding. 

Well, the sewing was introduced, and it did 
not overturn the schools, nor demoralize the 
pupils. But the sharp little needles, in the 
hands of the willing girls, went on pricking 
individual prejudices, until by and by the very 
people who had opposed it, were its warm 
friends and advocates. The teachers said that 
the children worked better at their books for 
the change of employment; that the heads 
rested while the hands worked, and that a deal 
of dangerous nervous restlessness was carried 
off through the stitches. Mothers were proud 
of the work their girls could do, and the girls 
themselves grew particular about the appear- 
ance of their clothing, taking better care of it 
since they knew the labor of making, and had 
acquired the knack of repairing. 



12 MASTER Allen's prophecy. 

It is no wonder when the experiment of sew- 
ing was found to be a success, that the people 
who had been instrumental in bringing it about, 
should look around for another department of 
industry to introduce. But it is a wonder that 
it was going to be as necessary to convert the 
public to the new work, as it had been to the 
sewing. 

But a wise woman who has proven her wis- 
dom in many ways in forwarding education, and 
helping boys and girls to become useful men 
and women, decided that it was better to prove 
the usefulness of the measure first, then, should 
it be necessary, to argue about it afterwards. 
Mrs. Mary Hemenway, who had supported the 
Old South Free Lectures for the children of the 
Boston schools, who had founded schools for 
the poor children in the South, who had offered 
and bestowed the prizes for the essays in Ameri- 
can History to be written by the graduates of 
the High Schools, had also for a number of 
years supported a summer school in the Tenny- 



MASTER Allen's prophecy. 13 

son Street Schoolhouse, where girls have been 
taught several branches of industry, including 
even light carpentering and cabinet-making. 
After watching her experiments for several sea- 
sons, Mrs. Hemenway decided that the best 
industry to introduce into the public schools 
would be cooking. She did not talk much about 
her plan ; she asked the School Committee to 
let her keep the kitchen she had so beautifully 
fitted up, and to allow classes of girls from sev- 
eral of the schools to be sent during the year 
for instruction in cooking, which she would pro- 
vide at her own expense. 

It may be that the School Committee were 
rather anxious to have such an experiment tried. 
At any event, they gave Mrs. Hemenway ready 
permission to keep the kitchen, and heartily ac- 
cepted the very generous proposition that she 
made them. 

So the school was begun. There were two 
classes, of fifteen girls each, that met every day 
to learn the mysteries of cooking. Each girl 



14 MASTER ALLEN'S PROPHECY. 

who came to the school took only one half a 
day each week from her book-studies ; and no 
girl was allowed to attend whose mother did not 
fully approve o£ her doing so. 

The pupils were marked for tardiness or for 
absence, exactly as they were at the school it- 
self ; for the cooking, like the sewing, was con- 
sidered a part of the school-training, and a 
regular school-exercise, at which the girls were 
still held under the rules. 

At first the pupils themselves did not quite 
know whether to like the new departure or not. 
It was something so new, so utterly out of the 
every-day school routine. But as most girls 
have the natural instinct of the housewife, that 
waits only occasion to arouse, they soon found 
that the new duty was very pleasant. 

In the first place, they had such a perfectly 
appointed kitchen to work in ! It was a real 
delight to be in it, and to be allowed to handle 
all the convenient implements at will, with the 
feeling of absolute proprietorship. There were 



MASTER ALLEN'S PROPHECY. 15 

closets and cupboards filled with stores, and 
.vith pretty dishes ; a large range, always kept 
bright and shining, and that looked cheerful 
from very cleanliness, even when there was no 
fire in it ; an abundance of towels and dish- 
cloths, and, best of all, a large circular table, 
divided into compartments, each one having its 
own gas stove, its spoons, its mixing dishes and 
measuring cups, its bread-board and rolling-pin, 
its egg-beaters and strainers — all the conven- 
iences, indeed, that could be needed for per- 
sonal use in cooking. Each girl had her cap and 
apron, usually a long tier with sleeves, that cov- 
ered her from the throat of her dress to the 
hem, protecting it from all traces of the work in 
which she was engaged. With her apron and 
cap, her holder and towel pinned to her side, 
she was ready to begin her work, and, as a gen- 
eral thing, every one of the pupils felt a real 
enthusiasm after the first strangeness was over. 
For three years Mrs. Hemenway continued 
her experiment ; now the city has taken the 



1 6 MASTER Allen's prophecy. 

school, and established others as well in differ- 
ent parts of the city, so that during the year 
eighteen hundred and eighty-eight eighteen hun- 
dred girls received good training in cooking. 
There has been no need for argument ; the 
experiment has been proof, as Mrs. Hemenway 
was sure it would be ; everybody is praising the 
cooking as they have before praised the sewing. 

But the best of it all is to hear the mothers 
talk about it ; they are so delighted with the 
results that they have nothing but thankfulness 
toward the system. You see the girls do not 
merely learn their lessons in theory, but they 
really do the work themselves, and then go 
home and cook the same dishes for the family 
meals, so that the mothers and fathers have an 
opportunity of testing for themselves the value 
of the teaching. And they are very proud when 
they can treat some visitor to a specially nice 
dish and say, — 

" It was made by daughter ; she learned it 
at school." 



MASTER ALLEN S PROPHECY. 17 

A mother said to me while telling about some 
trouble she had had with a servant, which 
resulted in her sending the girl away : 

"Annie" — that was her daughter who had 
graduated from the grammar school a little less 
than a year before — ■ " says I shall not be both- 
ered with another servant ; she is going to do 
the family cooking. And oh ! it is such a com- 
fort and rest to have her do it. She is so eco- 
nomical, and so nice about it, and she really 
enjoys it herself so much ! I would much rather 
she did this than went out of her home to work, 
as she would. So I have told her that I would / 
pay her just what I had been paying a girl. 
She will have her own income, and we will have 
good cooking and nice housekeeping. I feel 
the relief already." 

Wasn't that a jolly, comfortable way of fixing 
things ? And wouldn't many a girl like it, if 
she could be the mother's helper in such a 
fashion ? And that is just what the cooking- 
schools are making possible, both for mothers 



i8 MASTER Allen's prophecy. 

and daughters ; and, between you and me, I 
think it is going some way in solving the per- 
plexing question of domestic service and ineffi- 
cient help, that we all hear so much about in 
these days. There is a chance for a good long 
look ahead in this subject, and one day you and 
I will look back over the ground that has been 
trodden, and wonder that the public teaching 
of cookery wasn't thought about earlier. 

In the schools now, whenever there is a sew- 
ing exhibition, there is a cooking exhibition as 
well ; and after the visitors have admired the 
nicely made under-clothing, bed and table linen, 
and wondered at the skill and proficiency which 
made it possible for such young needlewomen 
to compass the dresses, complete infants' ward- 
robes, and boys' suits, that are spread out for 
them to see, each with the name and age of the 
youthful seamstress pinned to it, they are asked 
to another room. And there they are shown 
fine loaves of bread, nicely cooked meats, fish 
and vegetables, gruels and beef tea, jellies and 



MASTER ALLEN S PROPHECY. I9 

blanc-manges, that are also labelled with the 
name and age of the makers. You will not find 
many loaves of cake, or pies, or much " fancy 
cooking," for the school teaches the comrnon- 
sense of cookery; believing if the pupils learn 
the principles thoroughly they can do very much 
themselves with practice. 

Now as there are so many young people who 
have not the opportunity of learning what is 
taught the fortunate girls in the Boston schools, 
I propose telling you a little bit of what these 
same girls really learn, trusting that it may 
interest you so much that you will all become 
earnest advocates of a system of education 
that shall embrace some of the industries, and 
shall place value on the work of the hands as 
well as of the head. 

Because you are not where you have the ad- 
vantage of the training of these schools, you 
need not think it is of no use for you to want 
it. By no means. Other cities and towns are 
following the example of Boston, and are intro- 



20 MASTER ALLEN S PROPHECY. 

ducing the teaching of cooking into their public 
schools; and if you are really in earnest in your 
desire, you may impart your interest to others, 
and out of the growth of this interest may come 
the very thing you want. Public-spirited girls 
have a chance to make a great many advance 
steps in any good movement. There is no tell- 
ing what they may bring about by talking with 
their parents over the morning coffee. 

There are teachers in training now to take 
positions in schools as teachers of cookery, and 
those already graduated have found places in 
New England cities, and in the South and West. 
One young colored woman came from the Tus- 
kagee College in Alabama to prepare herself to 
take the department of cooking in that institu- 
tion, and she has finished her course and gone 
to her work full of enthusiasm for it. 

In most of the cities the school is supported 
from the school-fund, a special appropriation 
being made for it ; in other places it is carried 
on by private generosity. Mr. Augustus Hem- 



MASTER Allen's prophecy. 21 

enway, the son of Mrs. Hemenway who began 
the work in Boston, has followed his mother's 
example and has established a school in 
Canton, Mass., the town in which he lives, and 
still another in Easton, Mass. 



CHAPTER II. 



FIRE-BUILDING. 



THE roll is called, the girls are in their 
uniforms — that is, the apron, the cap, 
the holder suspended by a tape from the belt, 
always in readiness for use, and the hand-towel 
pinned to the side. Rings and bracelets — if 
any one is so thoughtless as to wear them to a 
cooking-lesson — are laid aside, the hands are 
washed, and the nails looked after ; for an im- 
portant feature of the first lesson, as well as of 
every succeeding one, is that of personal clean- 
liness. And it is repeated all the way along 
too. The hands are washed as often as needed ; 
and always before touching any food they are 
wiped on the towel at the side. That is why 
the towel hangs there. 

22 



FIRE-BUILDING. 23 

The three housekeepers are chosen ; out of 
each class of fifteen, three are called housekeep- 
ers, while the rest are cooks. The three house- 
keepers do the kitchen work, and each one has 
her own special set of duties. 

The lists of duties for the housekeepers are 
printed plainly on a blackboard, so that each 
knows just what she has to do, and there is no 
interference of tasks between the three. In 
this way everything is done at its own proper 
time, and by the proper person. The rules for 
the housekeepers are like this:* 

HOUSiEKEEPER NUMBER ONE. 

Get kindlings and coal. 

Build the fire. 

Regulate the dampers. 

Empty ashes into sifter. 

Brush the stove under and around it. 

Blacken the stove. 

Light the fire. 

Polish the stove. 

Regulate the dampers. 

* These rules are copied from the blackboard of School Kitchen 
No. I, where they were placed in October, 18S6. 



24 FIRE-BUILDING. 

Fill tea-kettle and reservoir with fresh water. 

Wash the hearth or zinc under the stove. 

Wash the cloth and put to dry. 

Sift the ashes. 

Bring the cinders to the kitchen. 

This is what Housekeeper Number One has 
to do in the morning class. The Afternoon 
Housekeeper Number One must 

Regulate the fire. 
Replenish the kettles. 

Empty the kettles and copper boiler, and turn them 
over to dry. 

The last things, of course, are to be done 
when the lesson is ended. 

HOUSEKEEPER NUMBER TWO. 

Dust the room thoroughly. Begin at one corner, and 
take each article in turn. Dust from the highest things 
to the lowest, taking up the dust in the cloth, but not 
brushing it off on the floor. Shake the duster occasion- 
ally in a suitable place, and when through, wash and 
hang it to dry. 

Bring the stores to teacher when directed. 

Scrub the dresser and teacher's desk. 




A SCHOOL KITCHEN. 
{Showing compartments around iahle with gas stoves, etc.) 



FIRE-BUILDING. 27 

Keep the dresser in perfect order. 

Wipe dishes if needed. 

Sweep the room when the lesson is over, beginning at 
one side, and sweeping toward one place. Hold the 
broom close to the floor; sweep with short strokes, and 
let the broom take the dust along the floor, instead of 
tossing it into the air. 



HOUSEKEEPER NUMBER THREE. 

Polish the boiler. 

Clean knives and spoons in dresser drawer. 

Wash and wipe dishes. 

Wash dish towels. 

Scrub sink outside and in with hot suds. 

Wash cloth and hang to dry. 

I think it wouldn't be a half-bad idea to have 
a set of similar rules, condensed for family pur- 
poses, printed and hung in every kitchen ; 
though I'm not at all sure that you could get 
the girls to read them. The home-girls would, 
but the hired ones wouldn't. 

Of course the same girls do not act as house- 
keepers all the time. It is arranged that these 
duties are shared in alternation, in order that 



28 FIRE-BUILDING. 

every pupil may learn both the cooking and the 
kitchen work. 

When everything is in readiness the teacher 
gives the pupils a little preliminary talk about 
cooking in general, and they bring out their 
note-books and pencils, and write down all the 
points she gives them, so that they may be 
ready to answer the questions at the next les- 
son. And more than this, they must remember 
it, for they have to be examined in their knowl- 
edge of this branch of study as in any other, 
and are marked by the same system of per- 
centage. 

In the first place the teacher gives them the 
definition of cooking ; and they are told that it 
is the preparation of food by the aid of heat to 
nourish the human body : Food is cooked to ren- 
der it more palatable, and more easy of diges- 
tion ; to make it assimilate with our bodies, and 
do us good by giving us strength. Among the 
agents necessary for cooking, the most impor- 
tant are heat, liquid and air. Then follows 



FIRE-BUILDING. 29 

a short lesson on practical chemistry, giving 
special information about the four most impor- 
tant elements, namely, oxygen, nitrogen, hydro- 
gen and carbon. 

Then follows the lesson on fire-building, the 
teacher superintending and giving the directions, 
and Housekeeper Number One following them, 
while the rest of the class look on and listen. 
It is only in the early lessons that the instruc- 
tion is needed ; after a while the girls get to 
be the most expert fire-builders that can be im- 
agined, and what is quite as much to the pur- 
pose, as every housekeeper of experience will 
tell you, they know how to tend it and keep it 
with economy ; something, by the way, that a 
good many housekeepers themselves do not un- 
derstand. You see the mere " knowing how " 
to do anything, isn't all there is of a lesson. 
You must understand how to make the' knowl- 
edge attained available ; that is the true educa- 
tion. A person may acquire a knowledge of a 
great many things, but if she doesn't know what 



IN 



30 FIRE-BUILDING. 

use to make of it she might as well be without 
it, for all the real good it does her. She is not 
educated ; she is merely hampered with a lot of 
useless facts that lumber her intellect with cum- 
bersome stufif. 

But we are learning to make a fire ; and the 
first thing to be done is to remove all the covers 
from the stove, and brush all the ashes from the 
top of the inside into the fire-box ; this keeps 
the heat channel clear, and makes the oven easier 
to heat, and keeps the stove in constant cleanli- 
ness. Then the covers are replaced and the 
dampers closed. This, you will understand, is 
done to keep the fine dust from escaping when 
you empty the contents of the fire-box into the 
pan. Most kitchen girls neglect this precaution, 
and then wonder why they have so much dust in 
their kitchens. The Boston public school-girls 
could tell them all about it. When the stove 
has been closed as tightly as possible, the direc- 
tions are to turn over the grate, letting the con- 
tents fall into the ash-pan below. Turn the 



FIRE-BUILDING. 3 1 

grate back to its place, after clearing it of any 
clinging substance. Brush out the oven after 
the dust has ceased to rise, and then it will be 
clean for use and free from dust when you are 
ready to bake in it. If there should not be a 
double grate, as there is not except in some of 
the newest ranges, remove the ashes and cin- 
ders together and sift them. Always take out 
the ashes before lighting the fire, for if they 
are left in the pan, sparks and lighted coals 
will drop into them. It is then very unsafe to 
remove them unless you have a fire-proof ash- 
receiver. Fires are often traceable to the care- 
less disposition of hot ashes. You can readily 
see what mischief might occur from putting 
ashes containing live coals into a wooden barrel 
or box. 

And now that the stove is cleaned and the 
ashes and cinders taken care of the next thing 
is to make the fire. Of course you all know 
without telling that the fire box is the part of 
the stove or range that holds the fire. Now 



32 FIRE-BUILDING. 

into this fire box you want to put, first of all, 
loose pieces of newspaper, that have been torn 
in strips ; these go at the very bottom, resting 
on the grate ; use plenty of paper, so that the 
kindling may have a chance to light before the 
paper is burned out. Next, lay small pieces of 
light wood across the box, leaving little spaces 
between the pieces ; on these put a layer of kind- 
ling a little larger than the first layer, putting 
the sticks at right angles with the lower ones ; 
on these again place fine hard wood kindling, 
then larger hard wood, and finally a thin layer 
of small coal. In this way you will have little 
trouble in making the fire burn. Each layer, as 
it burns, heats the one above it. Now you see 
there is a distinction between building a fire and 
lighting it. 

Now the fire is built, and the covers are re- 
placed. The housekeeper starts to light the 
fire, but on being referred to her rules, she finds 
that the next thing to be done is to open the 
dampers, remove the ash-pan and sift the ashes, 




BUILDING A FIRE. 



ias^^ssEfiSRSs 



Yl^ V «'1H/Tt S^I».t *ATP>Kll 



FIRE-BUILDING. 35 

replace the pan, and brush the dust off the 
stove. Then she blackens her stove, first mois- 
tening the polish with water, then rubbing the 
polish on with a cloth kept for such use. Then 
it is time to light the paper from under the 
grate, and while the fire is beginning to burn she 
polishes the stove with her dry brush. Here is 
something else to remember : blacken the stove 
while it is cold, but polish it as it begins to heat. 
Watch well while the wood and coal are kind- 
ling, so as to be ready to add more coal as soon 
as it is necessary, since if you do not, it will 
refuse to kindle when you do put it on, and then 
you will have the fun — and it isn't such good 
fun either — of doing your work all over again. 
But if you give the necessary thought and care 
to it, you need never have this trouble. After 
your first coal has well kindled, you should add 
enough to come nearly to the top of the fire box, 
and then you may feel assured that everything 
is right. Here you see one of the homely old 
proverbs verified, " More haste, less speed." 



36 FIRE-BUILDING. 

You cannot make a coal fire at hap-hazard ; 
you must go about it systematically. If you 
have charcoal or Franklin coal, it may be put 
on at first with the wood. 

When the blue flame is no longer seen, close 
the oven damper; and as soon as the coal is 
burning freely, shut the front damper. Then 
regulate the fire by the slide or damper in the 
pipe. While making and watching the fire, 
empty the tea-kettle, wipe out the inside, fill it 
and the reservoir with fresh water — never fill 
either from the hot-water tank — doesn't it seem 
absurd to have to say this? — finish polishing 
the sides and back of the range, and brush up 
the hearth and floor. 

Now we are ready for some cooking. But 
stop a minute ; there is more to be said before 
that is begun. We must keep the fire, now it is 
made, and you will need some directions for that. 
So we will listen while the teacher gives them : 

Somebody has said that it " takes a wise man 
to build a fire and a philosopher to keep it." 



FIRE-BUILDING. 37 

We have shown that it requires judgment if not 
real wisdom to get our fire well going, and cer- 
tainly it requires thought to keep it. It needs 
attention, not in a fussy, but in a common-sense 
way. In the first place, one thing to be well 
borne in mind is that the coal should never come 
above the top of the lining of the fire box. It 
chokes the entrance to the oven channel, making 
it impossible for a steady heat to circulate freely 
there ; and it spoils the stove by warping the 
covers and cracking them. So you see it is bad 
economy. The fuel is wasted and the stove is 
spoiled. If you need a steady hot fire for 
some time, replenish often and add but a little 
coal at a time. . 

If you do not need to use the fire, but wish to 
keep it along, add fresh coal, and when the gas 
is burned off, which will be as soon as the blue 
flame dancing over it disappears, close all the 
dampers, so there will be no draught, and your 
fire will keep a long time. When you wish to 
quicken your fire again after it has been closed 



38 FIRE-BUILDING. 

a long time, open all the dampers, to give 
draughts to enliven it. If some of the coal re- 
mains black on the top, you may poke away the 
ashes underneath with the poker, then when it 
is burning add coal and shake it gently to clear 
the grate. But if the coal is red, then you must 
not poke it, or you will put it out. Add a few 
coals at a time, but not enough to choke it or 
cool it. When your first pieces are kindled add 
a few more, and when these are burning you 
may then venture to give a gentle shake or 
quiet poke to the fire, but be very careful that 
you do not shake or poke too much, lest you 
deaden your fire again, possibly putting it out 
altogether. 

With all this instruction the teacher gives lit- 
tle lessons in chemistry, that are illustrated by 
the work that is done in the fire-building, and in 
this way the pupils are taught not only the how 
but the why ; for you see in a thorough drill of 
this kind it is very important to " mind the whys 
and wherefores." 



FIRE-BUILDING. 39 

I think, after these explicit directions, any 
girl can build and keep a fire even if she hasn't 
been to the cooking school. And this is a very 
important lesson, you may be sure, because no 
other lesson can well be given until the fire- 
building is fully understood, for what good will 
all the rules for dishes do, if you haven't the fire 
to cook them by ? 



CHAPTER III. 

SOME SIMPLE USES OF THE OVEN. 

A SHORT time since the mother of a poor 
family died. The father was a hard- 
working sober man, and there were three chil- 
dren, the oldest a bright girl of thirteen. She 
had been a pupil in the Boston public cooking 
school for a year, and had been taught sewing 
since she entered the grammar department. 
When the mother died this young daughter 
stepped to the front, and took the housekeep- 
ing into her brave capable little hands. She 
kept the house tidy, the little children's clothes 
mended and clean, and she had always some- 
thing well cooked for her father. She con- 
stantly surprised him with some special dish 
that was different from the ordinary food. 
40 



SOME SIMPLE USES OF THE OVEN. 41 

The father enjoyed it all, but he looked troubled 
and care-worn. One day, when she had cooked 
something particularly nice he praised it, then 
as if afraid of hurting her feelings he said, " I 
don't like to say anything, Mary, you are doing 
so nicely, but I am afraid we can't aiiord to 
have all these things. They are nice, but you 
must remember we are poor people." 

Mary's hour of housekeeping triumph had 
come. " Indeed, father," she said, " it costs no 
more than the old way." 

To prove it, she brought her little account- 
book, which she had kept very carefully, and 
showed him that she had not expended one 
cent over her allowance. The father was very 
proud and happy over his little daughter's 
achievement, and you may be sure he told all 
his acquaintances about it; and you may be 
sure also, that the industrial training in public 
schools has no more earnest advocate than this 
same man who has seen for himself the result 
of the training. 



42 SOME SIMPLE USES OF THE OVEN. 

I tell this because it is always pleasant to 
know some of the practical good that comes 
of this kind of teaching, especially if you are 
inclined in any degree to advocate it. There 
will always be somebody sure to pop up and 
say, as so many do, " Yes, it is all very well to 
talk about the value of such training — but 
what has it ever done for anybody } We want 
the cold facts." 

So here is one ready-made for use. It is not 
such a "cold" fact either, it is quite a heart- 
warming one. 

Mary, with all the rest of the girls, learned 
how to make the fire, and to perform a house- 
keeper's duty. Next came a lesson in the sim- 
plest form of cooking — that of baking, or cooking 
by direct heat. The very first things the class 
was set to do was to bake potatoes, to prepare 
croutons, and to brown bread-crumbs. 

All this seems easy, doesn't it ? Ah ! but I 
would like to know how many of you can bake 
a potato perfectly, so that it shall be just mealy 



SOME SIMPLE USES OF THE OVEN. 43 

and white all through, with a crust that is not 
burned nor hardened. Tell me, now, are not 
the majority of baked potatoes that you see 
brought to the table so shrivelled and dried-up 
that half the contents are wasted, and the residue 
soggy and heavy ? If that is not your experience 
it is mine ; and as I particularly like baked 
potatoes, I don't mind putting on cap and apron, 
and coming to the class, hoping to find out 
something that I didn't know before. 

The fire is built — there are no directions 
this time, for the fire-maker is supposed to have 
learned all about it at the last lesson. A few 
questions are asked to the remainder of the 
class, and if anything is done in the wrong 
place, or is omitted, the correction or the sup- 
plying the omission must come from the class. 
When the fire is built the lesson for the day 
begins. 

The first step is baking without measurements 
or mixtures. Potatoes are cooked by themselves 
and do not require any combination with other 



44 SOME SIMPLE USES OF THE OVEN. 

ingredients. Select the potatoes of uniform size ; 
that is so that all may be done at the same time. 
Should they vary in size, then some will be 
cooked before others, and these will burn or 
spoil while the others are cooking. Medium- 
sized potatoes are better for baking than either 
large or small. Having selected them, wash 
and scrub them well, so that the skins will be 
perfectly clean. Very many persons like to eat 
the skin of a baked potato, but it is not safe 
to do so unless you know they are thoroughly 
scrubbed, and are baked in a clean oven. That 
you must look out for as well. Do not place 
them directly upon the bottom of the oven, but 
upon the grate, which has been laid across the 
middle of the oven. The hot air gets all about 
them on every side, and they are cooked evenly. 
They must be baked until they are soft ; this 
will take from half an hour to three quarters, 
according to the size of the potato, and the heat 
of the oven. When they are just done they will 
be plump, smooth and soft, and when opened 



SOME SIMPLE USES OF THE OVEN. 45 

they will be mealy. As soon as they are done 
break the skins to let the steam escape. It 
is this steam or gas that often makes a potato 
bitter when it is confined in the close skin for 
along lime, and it tends also to make the potato 
"soggy.'' Baked potatoes should be served at 
once, in an uncovered dish, as the steam that 
is generated in a covered dish will make them 
heavy. They can be warmed over as well us 
boiled potatoes ; so if in cooking at home you 
have any left, peel them at once, as they will be 
in a better condition to warm over. No little 
thing betrays the unthrifty housekeeper more 
quickly than the habit of setting potatoes away 
unpeeled. Not only is much of the potato 
wasted when it is peeled after standing some 
time cold, but it cannot be prepared and served 
as daintily. 

There is one thing that the school-training 
does, and that is to show girls the right way, and 
to prove that it is the best way. If only the girls 
who do not have the advantage of such training 



46 SOME SIMPLE USES OF THE OVEN, 

would take the hints that are given in these 
papers, they too might feel that they have 
achieved something, even without the school and 
the teacher. If a thing seems small to you, 
and of little significance, do not on that account 
neglect it, but remember that the sum of suc- 
cessful living is made up of an aggregate of 
trifles, and that each one must be scrupulously 
attended to, or the whole will go wrong. Isn't 
that a solemn sermon with a left-over baked 
potato for a text ? 

The next things are the croiitons. There is 
probably little need to explain that these are 
browned slices of bread to serve with soups or 
stews in place of toast. Sometimes they are 
fried, but now we are only just learning how to 
use the oven, and frying is ever so far away. 
The brown croutons which the girls in the cook- 
ing class are preparing to make are very delicate 
and nice for the purpose for which they are 
used. The bread knives are got ready, the 
girls see that they are sharp, then slices half an 



SOME SIMPLE USES OF THE OVEN. 47 

inch thick are cut from the loaves of bread. 
The crusts are removed from these slices, and 
they are then cut into half-inch cakes, put into 
a shallow pan, set in the oven and baked until 
they are brown. But what becomes or che 
crusts ? Are they thrown away ? That would 
be waste, and waste is not tolerated in the 
class. Now is the time to give the first lesson 
in economy ; in the thrift that made our grand- 
mothers such wonderful housekeepers. And 
just here it is quite in order to say to the girls 
who are reading this, that the same use may be 
made of all bits of stale bread — no matter how 
small the pieces — that is being made of the 
crusts that were cut from the slices of bread for 
the croutons. These are put into a pan and, 
when the oven is moderately hot so that there 
is no danger of the bread scorching, placed in 
the oven and heated until dry all through and 
crisp. Then remove the bread from the oven 
and roll it as fine as you possibly can. You will 
not be able to crush it uniformly, and some of 



48 SOME SIMPLK USES OF THE OVEN. 

the crumbs will be finer than the rest. It is 
best to separate the fine crumbs from the coarse, 
as they may be used advantageously for different 
purposes. To separate them, sift the crumbs, put 
the fine ones into one jar or bottle, the coarse ones 
into another, cork them and keep them in a dry 
place. They will keep a long time, and be a 
great convenience as they will be always ready 
for use. What will be done with them, do you 
ask .' Well, they will be used for breading veal, 
lamb chops, oysters, or anything that is to be 
cooked in crumbs with beaten egg. By and by, 
when we come to it, you will be told how you 
are to use them ; in the meantime you close 
them tight and put them where they will keep dry. 
You see you have learned the simplest form 
of cooking, in which you have been given your 
fire and a simple article of food with no com- 
bination of ingredients. Now comes the next 
step. This is also baking, but with a little lesson 
in measuring and in preparation. Before going 
to work at the cooking there are some things to 



SOME SIMPLE USES OF THE OVEN. 49 

be learned that will prove valuable to you as 
long as you shall be called upon to cook, and 
you will be glad that you have learned them 
when it shall become your turn to teach. For 
that is going to happen surely. I wonder how 
many of you girls have ever thought of this : 
that when you are learning anything it is not 
for yourself alone ; but that by and by you will 
be obliged to impart what you know to some 
one else. That is why the thoughtful women, 
who have had this training in charge, have 
given so much care to the best way of teaching 
the pupils. I am sure you will all see before 
we finish, that the methods are as natural as 
those employed in any science, and that every 
step is taken with reference, not only to the 
one that preceded it, but to all that are to 
follow. A great deal of wisdom and experience 
has gone into the planning of the course of train- 
ing, and it is as nearly perfect as it is possible 
to be at the present. 

But what is it you are to learn ? It is some- 



50 SOME SIMPLE USES OF THE OVEN. 

thing about measurements. You may all im- 
agine, if you like, that with caps and aprons on, 
you are standing before your table while the 
teacher tells you the important things for you 
to remember. They are these : 

Accurate measurement is necessary to insure success 
in cooking. 

All dry materials should be sifted before measuring. 

A cup holding just half a pint is the standard measur- 
ing cup. 

A cupful is all the cup will hold without running over 
— full to the brim. A scant cupful is within a quarter o£ 
an inch of the top. 

A tablespoonf ul of flour, sugar and butter is a rounded 
spoonful. 

A teaspoonful of salt, pepper and spice, is a level tea- 
spoonful. 

A heaped spoonful is all the spoon will hold. 

Half a spoonful is measured by dividing through the 
middle — lengthwise. 

A speck is what you can take on the tip of a penknife. 

Now we may go on and try a little baking 
with some simple combination of ingredients. 
It shall be baked apples. For these you will 



SOME SIMPLE USES OF THE OVEN. 51 

use to each apple one teaspoonful of sugar, and 
one tablespoonful of water. Pick out nice fair 
apples, unspecked and of uniform size. Wipe 
them nicely with a clean, dry cloth, remove the 
cores, and put them in an earthen dish. Put 
the sugar in the centre of each apple, in the 
cavity whence you have removed the core, and 
the water in the dish. Bake in a hot oven from 
twenty to thirty minutes, or until soft, but not 
until broken. 

This is a good time to learn to brown crackers 
to serve with soups or oyster stews. For this 
you will use one half a teaspoonful of butter to 
each whole cracker. Split round crackers in 
halves, spread the inside with a thin layer of 
butter. Put them, buttered side uppermost, into 
a pan, and brown in a hot oven. Serve at once, 
and they will be found delightfully sweet and 
crisp. 

A nice lunch dish is made of these same 
crackers, by preparing them in the way just 
given, then for every cracker mix one table- 



52 SOME SIMPLE USES OF THE OVEN. 

spoonful of grated cheese, one half a salt-spoon- 
ful of salt and one quarter of a salt-spoonful 
of pepper. Spread the hot crackers with this 
mixture of cheese and seasoning, return to the 
oven, and warm until the cheese is melted. Or 
you may make a brewis for tea by preparing the 
crackers and cheese in this way, putting them 
into a shallow earthen dish, adding a quarter 
of a cup of milk to each cracker, and baking 
until it is brown, or until the milk is absorbed. 

Now this is all very easy, but, I assure you, it 
is nice, and will impart a relish for tea or lunch- 
eon that is inexpensive and easily prepared. 



CHAPTER IV. 



A LESSON IN BOILING. 



THE little girls were folding up their aprons 
and putting away their caps after one of 
the lessons, and making ready to go home. I 
asked a bright miss of about twelve what she 
had learned. 

" Oh ! " she replied, " I have learned to make 
a fire and take care of it, to put away my things 
neatly after I am through my work, to look after 
my utensils and my towels, to bake potatoes 
and apples, and to make buns." 

She told off the list of accomplishments with 
a pardonable air of pride. 

" But you have learned to do these things 
here," I persisted ; " have you done any of them 
at home .' " 

53 



54 A LESSON IN BOILING. 

What a sparkle there was in the bright blue 
eyes! 

" Yes, indeed," she said ; " why, only this 
morning I took my mother's receipt-book and 
made the gems for breakfast by her rule. I not 
only mixed them, but I attended to the baking. 
I arranged the dampers, and no one but myself 
even looked at the oven once. My father said 
the gems were the nicest he ever tasted, and my 
mother said that was real cooking ; that it was 
easy enough merely to mix things together, but 
the test of a good cook was in the baking." 

And " mother " was right. Now I dare say 
all the lessons we have gone over have seemed 
very simple, and it may be that some of you are 
inclined to look with a little feeling of contempt 
on the small number of rules that have been 
given. But you must remember that we are 
learning principles, and that when these are 
well understood you can take any one's receipt- 
book and do anything you please, just as the 
little girl I have told you about made successful 



A LESSON IN BOILING. 5$ 

gems when she had learned how to manage 
her oven with such simple things as potatoes 
and apples. 

I have a friend who is a very fine and very 
successful singing-teacher. He trains the voices 
of his pupils very carefully, with exercises that 
are best calculated to develop them. Now and 
again some pupil gets impatient over these ex- 
ercises and begs to know when she can have a 
song to learn. 

" When you know how to sing," is the invari- 
able reply. " You must first know how to use 
your voice, then you may buy out the music 
store if you wish." 

There it is again, you see ; principles first, 
afterwards achievement. And so it is in every- 
thing, and so it must be. Theories are very 
fine, no doubt, but they do not always take the 
place of principles. Not very many days ago, I 
was reading one of the many theoretical articles 
that are written on the subject of housekeeping. 
The writer in advising housekeepers how to 



56 A LESSON IN BOILING. 

keep ahead of their work, said that every night 
before retiring, the fire in the kitchen stove 
should be laid for the morning, and the tea-kettle 
filled. Fancy using water for tea or coffee or 
cocoa that has stood in a kettle for twelve hours. 
Why, any housekeeper, no matter how inexpe- 
rienced she was, would know better, and cer- 
tainly every schoolgirl would, after she had 
taken the present lesson on boiling. 

We have a fashion of speaking about boiling 
food, such as potatoes, and other vegetables, 
grains and some meats. Now the proper way 
would be to speak of them as cooked in boiling 
water ; the articles themselves do not boil, only 
the water in which they are cooked. Baking is 
cooking by a dry heat ; boiling is cooking in a 
boiling liquid. This is one of the most common 
forms of cooking, and the liquid that is most 
usually employed is water. By trying experi- 
ments with the water, that is, by watching it as it 
boils and testing it to find the temperature — 
these facts are discovered : 




COOKING IN FOILING WATER. 



A LESSON IN BOILING. 59 

That water boils at 212°, or when it bubbles 
all over the top. That when once it boils all 
over it will become no hotter, and that fuel and 
heat are wasted when it boils at a galloping rate. 
This is a very good thing to know, because 
many people imagine that the more furiously 
anything boils, the hotter it gets and the more 
rapidly it cooks. That is a false notion, as you 
can tell by testing the water during boiling by a 
thermometer that is made on purpose for testing 
the heat of liquids. So here is something that 
it is well, in the interests of economy, to 
remember. 

The kettle should never be so full that the 
water will boil over as it expands in heating. 
There is danger of injuring the stove if this 
is allowed, and, too, there is always danger 
of somebody getting scalded, which is, as you 
probably know, the most painful of all ways of 
burning the flesh. 

You find too, what so many people who cook 
forget to remember — that there is a wide distinc- 



6o A LESSON IN BOILING. 

tion between " boiled water " and " boiling 
water,'' and that the freshness is lost by long 
boiling, so that the sooner water is used after 
once boiling the better it will be. Indeed if it 
stands it loses all its vitality, and cannot be 
used with good results. That is why tea and 
coffee are often so lifeless ; not because the 
leaves and berries are not good, but because 
they are improperly made with " boiled water " 
instead of freshly "boiling water." You see 
there is a wide disiinction between the two. 

The lesson in boiling takes up the boiling of 
vegetables, potatoes being taken as the demon- 
strating article. The principles for cooking all 
vegetables are the same, and if the pupil learns 
to cook one kind well, she can, by following the 
particular directions, cook any kind as occasion 
may require. As in baking, select the potatoes 
for boiling of a uniform size. This is to insure 
all being cooked at a time. Wash and scrub 
them. Pare, and cover with cold water. Put 
them in boiling salted water, using one quart of 



A LESSON IN BOILING. 6i 

water and one tablespoonful of salt for six large 
potatoes. Cook until done, whicli will be in 
half an hour or a trifle over. Drain off every 
drop of water. Place the kettle, uncovered, at 
the back of the stove to let the water pass off 
in steam. Shake gently, and serve the potatoes 
very hot. 

Potatoes, when pared, turn brown if exposed 
to the air, and each should be covered with 
cold water as soon as pared, and should not be 
pared long before using. If they are left, even 
a short time, uncovered after paring, the action 
of the air will turn them brown, and they will 
not lose this discoloration in the cooking, so 
they are not so appetizing. They should be 
taken up the moment they are done ; this is one 
of the most important steps of all. When a 
fork will pierce them easily they are ready ; 
drain them, too, at once. 

And now, since some of you may like to vary 
your plain boiled potato, we will see what else 
may be done with it, and how it may be served 



62 A LESSON IN BOILING. 

to be more tempting. Of course there is always 
" mashed potato," which is very nice when well 
prepared, and not at all good when carelessly 
done. It is like so many simple things ; a little 
more thought and a trifle more labor, turn into 
success what might prove a failure. To one 
pint of hot boiled potatoes, add one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, one half teaspoonful of salt, a 
dust of pepper, and enough hot milk to moisten. 
Mash in the sauce-pan in which they were 
boiled ; beat with a fork until light and creamy, 
then turn out carefully and lightly into a hot 
dish. 

Sometimes there is mashed potato left over, 
and it can be made very nice for breakfast by 
using it for potato cakes, which are prepared in 
the following way : Make the cold mashed potato 
into small round cakes about one half an inch 
thick. Put them on a baking tin, and brush 
them over with milk ; then bake in a hot oven 
until the cakes are a golden brown. 

If you like a more ornamental dish than you 



A LESSON IN BOILING. 63 

will get with simple mashed potato, you may, 
when the potatoes are mashed and beaten and 
seasoned, rub them with a wooden masher 
through a strainer into a hot dish and then you 
will have " rice potatoes." 

Having learned how to cook the potatoes by 
boiling, you can undertake other vegetables, but 
there are some general rules that you may first 
learn. And first about the preparation, which is 
always important. 

Potatoes : scrub and pare when necessary. It is not 
always necessary to pare new potatoes, and the thin, deli- 
cate skin, not yet grown tough, will come off by rubbing. 

Parsnips : scrub till white, and trim off the fine, thread- 
like roots. 

Carrots : scrub, and scrape off the thin outer surface. 

Turnips : scrub, cut in slices and pare. 

Beets : wash carefully, for if the skin be broken the 
sugary juices will escape. 

Cabbage and cauliflower : trim and soak, top down, to 
draw out any insects. 

Celery : wash and scrape off any rusty portions. 

Spinach and other greens : pick over very carefully, and 
wash in several waters. 

Onions : peel and soak. 



64 A LESSON IN BOILING. 

Green corn : husk with clean hands, but do not wash it. 

Peas and beans : shell with clean hands and wash 
quickly. 

Soft-shell squashes : wash, pare, and cut as desired. 

Hard-shell squashes : wash, split, and cook in the shell. 

Asparagus : wash, and break off the tough ends, tie in 
bundles, and break into inch bits. 

String beans : strip off the ends and strings on each 
side, cut or break into small pieces and wash. 

Fresh vegetables do not require any soaking in cold 
water, and it is better not to prepare them until you are 
ready to cook them. But if they are wilted, soaking will 
freshen them, and if they must be prepared long before 
cooking, they should be covered with cold water to pre- 
vent them from wilting or from becoming discolored. 

For all fresh green vegetables use soft water, salted and 
freshly boiling. Cook rapidly until soft. The time will 
depend upon the age or freshness of the vegetable. 

With green peas, shelled beans, green corn, asparagus, 
celery and spinach, use as little water as possible, and let 
it boil away, leaving just enough to moisten and thus save 
all the desirable soluble mattei'that may have been drawn 
out. 

Cook cabbage and cauliflower uncovered, in a large 
kettle of rapidly-boiling, salted water, with a salt-spoonful 
of soda in it. 

Onions, scald and change the water twice. 

All others, cook in water enough to cover, and drain it 
off after cooking. 



A LESSON IN BOILING. 65 

Green summer squash, cabbage and other watery vege- 
tables should be pressed in a cloth or strainer, and well 
drained. 



And now the ways of preparing the vegetables 
being quite understood, the next thing in order 
is the time of coolcing. The following formula 
for boiling meats and other things besides vege- 
tables, is given the pupils to learn. 

Eggs (soft), coffee, clams, oysters . 3 to 5 minutes 

Green corn, small fish and thin 

slices of fish . . . 5 to 10 " 

Rice, sweet breads, peas, tomatoes, 

asparagus, hard boiled eggs J5 to 20 " 

Potatoes, macaroni, squash, celery, 

spinach, cabbage . . 20 to 30 " 

Young beets, carrots, turnips, 

onions, parsnips, cauliflower 30 to 45 " 
String beans, shelled beans, oyster 

plant 45 to 60 " 

Winter vegetables, oatmeal, hom- 
iny and wheat, chickens and 

lamb I to 2 hours 

Fowls, turkey, veal . . . 2 to 3 " 

Corned beef, smoked tongue, beef 

a la mode . . . . 3 to 4 " 



66 



A LESSON IN BOILING. 



Ham 


4 to S 


hours 


Small pieces of meat, allow fifteen 






minutes to warm through, 






then for every pound 


15 


minutes 


Halibut and salmon, in cubical 








15 


it 


Blue fish, bass, etc., per pound 


10 


It 


Cod, haddock and small fish per 






pound .... 


6 


» 



For the benefit of the mothers who may 
think either I or the cooking school have gone 
astray on the matter of cooking cabbage, I 
want to emphasize here the advantage of the 
new way over the old. I was as sceptical over 
the notion of cabbage being properly cooked in 
half an hour, as any one of you can be ; but 
my first experiment corrected me, and all who 
tasted this maligned vegetable served after the 
new method declared themselves surprised. 

Have plenty of salted, boiling water, in which 
a teaspoonful of soda has been dissolved, plunge 
the cabbage in, top downward, leave it uncov- 
ered and let it boil until tender, that will be, as 



A LESSON IN BOILING. 67 

given in the time table, from twenty minutes to 
half an hour. Take it out into a colander, 
drain well, put into a hot dish, put in bits of 
butter, some salt and pepper, and serve at once. 
It will be as delicate as cauliflower ; the color 
will be retained and there will not be an un- 
pleasant odor over the house, such as is always 
associated with boiling cabbage. Try it once, 
and then see if the School Kitchen Learning 
has not gotten several steps in advance of your 
old, traditional methods. 

And now for the seasoning after once the 
vegetables are cooked. One pint of vegetables, 
mashed or sliced, or one pint of small whole 
vegetables requires one tablespoonful of butter, 
one half teaspoonful of salt, and one half salt- 
spoonful of pepper. Squash, peas and beans 
are improved by one teaspoonful of sugar. 
Milk or the vegetable liquid may be used to 
moisten such as are too dry. 

Eggs come naturally into a lesson in boiling, 
and so the way for doing them is given. For 



68 A LESSON IN BOILING. 

soft-boiled eggs, you will put the eggs in a sauce- 
pan, cover with boiling water, and let them stand 
from six to ten minutes where the water will 
keep hot, but not boiling. The white will be 
soft and jelly-like and the yolk soft but not liquid. 
Eggs cooked in this manner are really " coddled 
eggs," but they will be found as nice, and more di- 
gestible, than when cooked in the usual fashion. 
Or if one prefers the white hardened while the 
yolk remains soft, the eggs may be cooked in 
boiling water about three minutes. If you wish 
the eggs hard boiled cook for twenty minutes in 
water just bubbling. The yolk will be dry and 
mealy and adjustable, where if it is cooked only 
ten minutes it will simply be hard and tongh, 
and will not digest easily. Try these for your- 
self and see. 



CHAPTER V. 



GOING TO MARKET. 



THE next lesson in cap and apron is on 
cooking meats ; but before the meats 
are cooked they must be bought; and it is 
quite important that the cooks should know 
how to buy them. It is all very well to order 
hap-hazard of one's provision-man, but how is 
one to know whether she gets what she orders 
unless she has learned the different cuts of 
meat, where they are situated, and what she 
ought to pay for them ? 

So one day the school kitchen is deserted, 
and the class is taken by the teacher down to 
the big markets, and there they are initiated into 
the mysteries of rumps and rounds and loins, of 
shoulders and fillets, of briskets and rattle rounds, 
69 



70 GOING TO MARKET. 

of ribs and flanks, of saddles and shins, and the 
rest of the long list of cuts, which all their lives 
they have heard talked about, without under- 
standing or knowing one part from another. 

Of course if one is going to be a good house- 
keeper one must know what to buy, and how to 
make the best use of what she buys. She must 
learn, too, to do her marketing according to the 
needs of her family. If she is providing for 
persons who do a great deal of out-of-door work 
she will want the heavier kinds of food. If for 
persons who are in-doors a great deal and whose 
work is sedentary, she will want to provide lighter 
food. Whether light or heavy it must be nour- 
ishing, but it will differ in quality. 

In the buying of meat a lesson in economy is 
given. And now, my young housekeepers in 
prospective, don't turn up your noses at this 
word, and above all, don't get a wrong idea of 
the meaning of the term. The notion that pre- 
vails the most popularly is a very mistaken one. 
I have had occasion to talk about this very thing 



GOING TO MARKET. 7 1 

to older people than you, and I have found that 
pretty nearly all of them had fallen into the 
same fault. Now please remember this — it is 
the very same thing I told them — economy 
does not imply meanness. It is only another 
word for good, honest thrift. It means doing 
the very best you possibly can with the money 
at your command. It is a moral obligation. It 
is care-taking in its best and highest sense. You 
will have respect for the word as soon as you set- 
tle it in your mind that it islnot by any means 
connected with stinginess. So in learning abouf 
meats and the way to buy them to the best ad- 
vantage, you are learning "economy" because 
you are taking lessons in wisdom of selection, 
and the ways to get the most good with the 
money you have to use. You will learn, too, 
when the different meats are in season, which 
is needed knowledge, as you will find when you 
come to be put to the test. 

The first part of the lesson at the stall is about 
beef, and the market-man, who has come to 



72 GOING TO MARKET. 

know the bright-faced, eager-eyed girls very well, 
and evidently has an unbounded admiration for 
the teacher, has put down upon the table half a 
beef, and as the teacher explains he cuts, in 
order to show the different pieces as she names 
them. They have already taken a preliminary 
lesson from the diagram at the school, but it is 
more satisfactory to see the meat — they under- 
stand it much better. 

Good beef, the teacher tells them, should be 
bright-red when it is first cut, and this red flesh 
should be well marbled with yellowish fat, and 
there should be a thick layer of fat on the out- 
side. If it does not present this appearance, it 
is safe to assume that the ox was not well-fatted, 
was too young, or was not in good condition. 
All these things one can see for herself; by them 
she will know when the beef is good. Also she 
is told that the flesh should be firm, and no mark 
should be left when it is pressed with the finger. 
The suet should be dry and crumble easily. 

The first thing that is to be done, is to 




fc It, 



< fe. 



GOING TO MARKET. 75 

divide the beef into tlie hind and fore-quarters. 
The hind-quarter contains the finest and most 
expensive cuts of the meat. Here are found 
the sirloin, the tenderloin, the rump and the 
round. The cheapest portions of the hind- 
quarter are the shin and the flank. In the 
fore-quarter are the ribs, the shoulder, the shin, 
the rattle round and the brisket. The ribs are 
the top of the back nearest to the loin, join it, 
in fact, when the animal is whole. The first five 
ribs are what are called the "prime" ribs; these 
are used for roasts or steaks ; the next are the five 
chock ribs lying between the prime ribs and the 
neck; the meat is of a finer quality than on 
the " prime " ribs, although they are used for the 
same purposes. The neck is used for beef teas, 
for stews, and for boiling. Below the rib-cuts, 
running along the side of the animal, is the rat- 
tle round. This is used for corning. The under 
part of the animal's body is called the brisket, 
and this is also used for corning. The shoulder 
is used for steaks and corning, though the less 



76 GOING TO MARKET. 

said about the tenderness of a shoulder steak 
the better. The shin, both in the front and the 
back, is used for soups and soup-stock. 

In the hind-quarter come the first roasts and 
steaks, as well as the juciest meats for making 
beef tea, meat pies, beef k la mode or potted 
beef. Sirloin, of course, gives the very choicest 
roasts and steaks ; next comes the rump ; this 
is cut in three parts. The back, the middle 
and the face are good roasting pieces ; but the 
most economical is the middle cut, as it is free 
from bone, and has not a scrap of waste on it. 
Good steaks are cut from the top of the round ; 
some people go so far as to say that the flavor 
of a round steak is superior to that of any other. 
The lower portion of the round is used for brais- 
ing and for beef tea. 

The tenderloin has the most tender meat, but 
it is neither so juicy nor so well-flavored as other 
portions that are not so tender, and it is not 
nearly so nutritious as portions that require much 
cooking. The sirloin comes next in tenderness 



GOING TO MARKET. 77 

and delicacy, These cost more than any other 
cuts, but there is less nutritive value than is 
found in the cheaper parts. Indeed the cost of 
the meat seems to be in an inverse ratio to its 
real food-value. Of course this is so because 
of the much smaller proportion of the so-called 
choicer cuts. It is one of the wise economies of 
nature that it should be so. The harder-work- 
ing class of people, those who do a great deal of 
manual labor, and particularly those whose 
occupation takes them a great deal into the open 
air, need the nourishment and sustaining quality 
of the heavier meats. And these are found in 
the cheaper parts, particularly where there is a 
great deal of juice in the meat and rich marrow 
in the bone. Stews, and braised meats, or those 
that are steamed in their own juices over the 
fire, as pot-boiled meats, give the most nutriment, 
and add the physical strength that is needed, as 
well as in cold weather supplying a deal of 
warmth by furnishing the carbon for the body. 
In this last cause is found the reason why one 



78 GOING TO MARKET. 

cares less for food of this kind in the summer. 
Stimulation and heat are to be avoided when 
the weather is warm, and that is why vegetables 
nd fish are more palatable in the summer than 
n the colder weather. One very important 
point to be learned is how one is to vary the 
foods to suit the seasons, and so come as nearly 
as possible to an ideal diet. It is not within the 
jurisdiction of these papers to dwell much upon 
these points, but perhaps the few hints given 
now and then will set you all thinking, and per- 
haps send you to the proper sources for all the 
necessary information. 

Mutton, like beef, is good all the year round, 
and the younger it is the more delicate. Still 
the nicer meat is gotten from a larger animal, 
and there should be a good deal of flesh on the 
bones. -For buying lamb or mutton you may 
have the saddle, or the whole hind-quarter, the 
leg, loin, and shoulder. The saddle is roasted ; 
the leg is roasted or boiled ; the loin is roasted 
or cut into chops; and the shoulder is roasted. 




a: 

ft; 



GOING TO MARKET. 8 1 

The hind-quarter costs more than the fore- 
quarter ; but the shoulder-piece, boned and 
stuffed, makes a very nice and inexpensive 
roast. The shoulder and neck piece are also 
used for lamb stews and fricassees. 

Chops are cut two ways ; there is the long 
chop and the short chop. The long chop has 
the flank-end left on, while in the short chop it 
is cut off and only the loin-part left. The long 
chop costs less by the pound, but really it is no 
cheaper since the flank-piece adds to the weight, 
and there is but very little meat on it. It takes 
so much more to make the amount needed, that 
in the end it costs about as much as the lesser 
number of pounds of short chops. 

The heart and liver of beef are both used 
for food, and the heart of mutton. The liver is 
either broiled or braised, and the heart is braised. 

Only by experience can one learn to tell 
exactly the cuts when she sees them, and it 
would be a good thing if after the lesson on 
marketing the mothers would trust the daughters 



82 GOING TO MARKET. 

to buy some of the family supplies of meat, thus 
giving them the opportunity to put this lesson 
into practise. Of course they would begin with 
the cheaper prices, in which there is little risk, 
and every time they made a selection it would 
be an added lesson. Almost every family has 
its own market-man, and when he saw the 
interest, he would no doubt give the little pur- 
chaser a great deal of valuable information, 
thus supplementing what her teacher has given 
in this marketing lesson. There is no danger in 
putting a certain amount of responsibility upon 
a child ; it makes her careful and thoughtful, 
and gives her a certain discretion that is a 
valuable addition to the character. I don't 
mean to make a little prig of her, for no one dis- 
likes a prig worse than I, but a young girl can 
be thoughtful and useful and discreet without 
being priggish, and without losing any of the 
sweet youthfulness that is so desirable. 



CHAPTER VI. 



MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 



ID you ever notice what 
a little thing it takes, 
sometimes, to set the 
whole current of a 
life in a certain direc- 
tion ? Sometimes it 
is so slight that we 
cannot see it, and 
then we talk about 
"happenings," 
just as though any- 
thing in the world 
* ever merely hap- 

pened. All this comes of a visit one of the 
mothers of a girl, graduated the year before, 
83 




'CHOPPING IT FINE.' 



84 MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 

made to the teacher of the cooking school. She 
said, " I could not help coming to tell you what 
the cooking class means for my daugliter." 

She was a colored woman who had been a 
cook in a Southern family, but had married and 
come to Boston, where she had brought up a 
family of children, giving them the benefit of a 
public school training. All this she told the 
teacher. Then she said : 

"My daughter was very much interested in 
the cooking, and I used to let her try her lessons 
over at home. I was delighted with what she 
did, because not only was the food that she 
cooked good, but she did it in such a nice 
handy way. Last Sunday I let her cook all the 
dinner, and I'll tell you what she had. Roast 
goose and apple sauce, mashed potatoes, squash, 
turnips, and apple pie. Every thing was so 
good. We had company, and they didn't stop 
praising Ada all day. I tell you I was prouder 
than she was, and she was proud enough. She 
just loves it, and now I'll tell you what I'm going 



MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 85 

to do. I'm going to send her through the Nor- 
mal School, then I want her to go through the 
Normal Cooking School, then go South and 
teach her people. She's just wild to do it, and 
now we're going straight ahead because we 
know just what we're working for, thanks to 
you, and the ladies who started the school." 

It is a good thing to have one's vocation fixed, 
so as to know"justwhat oneis working for," isn't 
it? I think Mrs. Hemenway will be glad she 
was impelled to start this movement, even for 
this one girl's sake, whose future lies before her, 
a straight path clearly cut. 

In the subject of this chapter we have a full 
day's work ; work for two classes, and this is the 
way it is managed in the school. The lesson for 
" meats " comes in the morning, the lesson on 
" made-overs " in the afternoon. This is because 
the meat being cooked in the first lesson it is 
ready for use in the second, so the same material 
really does service for both lessons and a saving 
is made in this way. For you must see that 



86 MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 

unless a great deal of care is exercised, the 
expenses of providing material for so many to 
work with, might easily be increased so that the 
outlay would exceed the appropriation. This 
would never do; for one of the first things to 
be learned is how to make the sum in hand 
cover all the expense of buying. Of course 
this is a matter that must rest with the teacher ; 
but in preparing the course of instruction Miss 
Homans was very particular in having every 
thing tested, and every expense brought down 
to the lowest figure. In this she was adTnirably 
seconded by Miss Hope the teacher of the 
Tennyson Street School, and it is that system, 
tested and well proven, that is the basis of all 
the teaching in the schools of Boston and vicinity ; 
and, indeed, of all the schools which have sprung 
from the Boston experiment. I shall have some- 
thing to say about the expenses of a year's work 
later, as well as something about the Normal 
Training, and the kind of teachers that are 
required to make this work a success. 



MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 87 

But to come back to our lessons : as one 
class comes only half a day at a time, it becomes 
quite evident that the class which learns about 
meat in the morning isn't the one that has to 
take the instruction about made-over dishes in 
the afternoon and vice versa. But every girl 
must have all the lessons, so these two are 
repeated for the next day and the classes are 
changed about. The one that learned about 
meats comes in the afternoon, and takes the 
lesson in made-overs, and the class that was 
the afternoon class before is the morning class 
this time. So you see all get the instruction, 
and the cost of the four lessons is put into 
the cost of two ; a little household manage- 
ment, such as you all will have to put into 
practise one day or other, and it is just as well 
to take }Our lesson early. 

There are many ways of cooking meat, roast- 
ing, boiling, braising, broiling, and frying or 
saut^eing. The ways of cooking depends upon 
the pieces of meat that are to be cooked. If 



»8 MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 

the fibers are tough it should be boiled or 
braised. It is the tender meat only which can 
be either roasted or broiled to be palatable, 
comfortably eaten and well-digested. 

One of the simplest ways of preparing meat 
is to boil it. The piece to be boiled should be 
well wiped, then put at once into boiling water 
that has been salted. The water should cover 
the meat, and it should boil for a few minutes, 
when it may be set back on the fire, and simmer 
gently until the meat is done. If the water is 
boiling when the meat is put in. the intense 
heat sears the surface and prevents the juice 
of the meat from flowing out and wasting, and 
the meat when done is juicy and well-flavored, 
having lost very little in the process of cooking. 
During the boiling a scum arises to the surface, 
and this should be carefully removed; the kettle 
should be kept covered except when it is uncov- 
ered for skimming the surface of the water, as 
the steam assists greatly in sjoftening the tough 
fibers, and the flavor is also better preserved. 



MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 89 

It would escape into the air with the steam if it 
were not kept in. 

The length of time that the meat should be 
boiled depends upon its weight. It takes about 
twenty minutes for the heat to pierce through a 
piece of meat so that it is ready to begin to 
cook ; reckoning from that time, twelve or fif- 
teen minutes should be allowed to a pound. If 
the meat is cut thick the longer time will be 
required ; but if it is a flat, thin piece, the 
shorter time will be found sufficient. 

Roasting meat is, properly, cooking it before 
the open fire, by subjecting it to a high degree 
of heat ; but as this is rarely done in these days 
of ranges and cooking stoves we bake it in a 
hot oven and call it "roasted" by courtesy. 

Braising is cooking in the oven in a covered 
pan, smothering the meat in its own juices and 
having a good deal of seasoning in the dish 
with the meat. 

Broiling is cooking directly over hot coals, 
and is the quickest, as well as the hottest way 



go MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 

of cooking. In nothing is the article to be 
cooked subjected to such an intense heat as in 
this process, and it would be quickly burned if 
the cook did not see to it that it was turned 
very often. I sometimes think that the majority 
of people who broil a beefsteak think they 
must do it literally. I suppose those of you 
who are French scholars know that the word 
comes from the French word brukr, " to burn ; " 
it also means "to sear," and that is what should 
be done, the surface seared — not burned — so 
that all the juices shall be kept inside the meat. 
Turning it frequently, so that the surface shall 
cook and not burn, and in this way keeping the 
juices flowing from side to side, but not escaping, 
is the true way of making a successful broiled 
dish. Food cooked in this way should be served 
at once, on hot plates, from a hot platter. 

This much in a general way. I think you 
will understand from the above, what are the 
underlying principles of the various processes, 
and why they are practised. Now for some of 



MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 9 1 

the particular rules. We will suppose that you 
are ready to begin, and that you are to boil a 
leg of mutton for dinner. You will wipe the 
meat, remove all the fat, and put the meat into 
boiling, salted water, after you have weighed it. 
Allow ten or fifteen minutes for the heat to 
penetrate the meat, taking the longer time for a 
large piece ; then skim off whatever may have 
risen to the top of the water, set the kettle back 
where the water will simmer, and cook in this 
way until the meat is done, allowing twelve 
minutes to each pound. Serve it with parsley 
or caper sauce. The latter is usually preferred 
with mutton. To make this sauce or gravy, the 
following rule will be used. To each cup of 
boiling water in which the mutton was cooked, 
add one teaspoonful of flour moistened with a 
little cold water, one teaspoonful of vinegar, 
one half a saltspoonful of salt and a speck of 
pepper. Boil five minutes stirring constantly 
until smooth, then add one tablespoonful of 
capers, or of finely chopped parsley. 



92 MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 

I think boiled mutton is as easy a dinner to 
begin with as any meat dish I know of. My 
own little eleven-year-old daughter came to 
me one day, when it chanced that the cook 
had taken a day to visit some friends, and 
begged to be allowed to cook the dinner. I 
had planned for something else, but remember- 
ing that the mutton was in the cold closet, I 
got it out and gave her the directions. She 
followed them implicitly, and with the tyranny 
for which cooks are famous forbade me the 
kitchen. So I was compelled to give directions 
from the library, and Missy got all the dinner, 
including vegetables and a rice pudding which 
was stuffed very full of plums to meet Missy's 
notion and papa's taste. Of course I enjoyed 
the dinner, and need I tell you that I felt very 
proud of the little body who had been so glad 
and proud in helping "mamma" through a very 
busy morning ? And let me whisper here, there 
is a sequel to this dinner which I will tell you 
about farther on. 



MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 93 

And now for the lesson in roasting. Suppose 
we take a calf's heart, and make a dish which 
for economy and delicac)' is not half well enough 
known, although it will be after a few hundred 
more girls have learned how to prepare it. You 
must wash the heart thoroughly in cold water, 
to remove the blood, and cut out the veins and 
arteries. This may not be a pleasant task to 
every one, still it is no more unpleasant than 
preparing fowls or game. Make a stuffing 
with one tablespoonful of bread crumbs, one 
tablespoonful of chopped onions, one saltspoon- 
ful of powdered sage, one half a saltspoonful of 
salt, and a tiny bit of pepper. This you may 
moisten with milk or water. After it is prepared 
put it into the cavity caused by the removal of 
the arteries, and sew the edges together. Slice 
an onion and brown it in a tablespoonful of 
clarified dripping ; skim out the pieces of 
onion, reserving them for use, brown the heart 
in the seasoned fat, then put it with the onion 
in a deep dish, and half cover with boiling 



94 MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 

water. Bake in a hot oven one hour, basting 
every ten minutes, add more water if necessary. 
When the heart is done you may make a gravy 
by thickening the water that is left in the dish 
with a Httle flour wet in cold water, just as you 
did in the mutton gravy. You will find this a 
very nice occasional dish for dinner, and a very 
inexpensive one. 

You will observe that the rule gives clarified 
drippings as a proper fat for browning the 
onion and meat. You will, perhaps, like to 
know how the fat is clarified. Save any pieces 
of fat — excepting mutton — cut into half-inch 
cubes, and put them in a pan, covering them 
with cold water. Put the pan in the oven and 
cook slowly for four or five hours, or until the 
scraps are quite brown and the water evaporated. 
Slices of raw potato put in with the fat, also 
assist in the clarifying. When it is slightly 
cooled, but not beginning to harden, strain 
into an earthen jar or bowl and set aside for 
use. 



MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 95 

And now suppose you wish to cook a beef- 
steak for breakfast. You will wipe the slice 
with a clean damp cloth — always, you see, this 
must be done with all meat, for you do not 
know what hands may have touched it — reserve 
the superfluous fat, and the bone. Grease the 
bars of the gridiron with some of the fat. Broil 
over a clear fire, not letting the gridiron out of 
your hands, and turning every time you count 
ten. If you like your steak rare cook it about 
four minutes, that is if it is of the right thickness, 
which is from three quarters of an inch to one 
inch ; but taking a longer time if you wish it 
well done. Serve at once on a hot platter, and 
season with salt, butter, and a little pepper. You 
must give your undivided attention to steak if 
you wish it good. In fact its price, like that of 
liberty, is "eternal vigilance." 

There is another way of broiling, that is called 
"pan broiling." This is done in a frying-pan 
or on a griddle. It is heated hissing hot, the 
meat is put on it, without any fat, cooked one 



g6 MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 

minute, then turned the other side round, then 
cooked until done, turning very often. When 
properly done it has the flavor of steak or chops 
cooked over the coals. 

And now for some of the ways of warming 
over the meats ; preparing the " made-overs " 
or rechaffes, as the French call them. We will 
suppose we have some of our boiled mutton 
left. I will give you three ways in which you 
may use it. First is minced mutton on toast. 
Remove all the fat and gristle from the cold 
mutton, and chop it fine. To one cup of the 
meat, add one saltspoonful of salt, a speck of 
pepper, and one half a cup of the thickened 
gravy. Heat quickly in a saucepan, and pour 
over slices of toast. Serve hot. 

The second way is a "cottage pie," and this, 
by the way, the cooking-school girls are very 
fond of doing at home. Prepare the meat as 
for the minced mutton or toast. Boil and mash 
some potatoes — you have already learned how 
to do that ; to every cup of meat add one half 



MEATS AND MADE-OVERS. 97 

a saltspoonful of salt, a bit of pepper, a little nut- 
meg — or if preferred a teaspoonful of chopped 
onion — and one half a cup of gravy. Put the 
meat, seasoning and gravy in a pie dish, cover 
it with mashed potato and bake in the oven 
until the potato is a golden brown. 

Next comes scalloped mutton. Cut the cold 
mutton into small thin pieces, removing all the 
fat and gristle. Put a layer of bread crumbs 
in the bottom of a shallow baking dish, then a 
layer of meat, a very thin layer of crumbs, then 
gravy. Alternate these layers until the dish is 
full, spread buttered crumbs on the top and 
bake until the crumbs are brown. 



CHAPTER VII. 



SOUPS AND STEWS. 



IN talking with the English-trained teacher of 
one of the cooking schools, she said that 
very early in her American experience she was 
struck with the absence of soup from the tables 
of the ordinary American family. 

" It seems to me," she said, " that here in 
America you regard soup as a luxury, and leave 
it entirely to the rich people, putting out of sight 
the fact that it is one of the most nourishing and 
least expensive forms of food. Now can you 
tell me why it is ? " 

I told her what I really thought, what I have 

found indeed to be the fact: that people do not 

at all regard it from any economical standpoint; 

that they have grown to think the making of 

98 



SOUPS AND STEWS. 99 

soup involves a deal of labor — which is quite 
a mistaken notion, as our white-capped and 
aproned girls quickly learn. To be sure there 
is a little more work in making a soup than in 
leaving it unmade ; but it is one of the things 
that pay for themselves, and after all, the dread 
of it is much greater than the doing. 

But a prominent feature of the School-Kitchen 
work is the preparation of soups, both with and 
without stock, and the cooking of savory stews. 
And how good they both are, when one comes 
home with a keen appetite after a morning at 
school ! The odor is enough to make a hungry 
boy or girl hungrier than ever. There is nothing 
I like better than going to the school when I 
know they are learning in this special line of 
cookery. 

Let us go together to-day to Tennyson street, 
and take the lesson in soup and stew-making. 
Caps and aprons are on, the "cutting boards " 
are taken out from under desks and tables and 
laid upon them, and knives are examined to 



lOO SOUPS AND STEWS. 

see if they are sharp. The " cutting board " 
is a small board that is like a bread-board in 
miniature, and is used to cut meat upon, thus 
protecting the work-table. You will find that it 
is much easier to wash a small board like that, 
than to have your whole table to scour. These 
little economies of time and labor are among 
the most valuable of the things that are taught 
in the School Kitchen — just ask your mother if 
they are not ; she has probably learned their 
worth by this time. 

Now comes the explanation of the difference 
between a soup and a stew. In the first, the 
object is to extract all the goodness and the 
nourishing qualities from the meat, and having 
seasoned this extract properly to serve it in its 
liquid form. The simple, plain extract of the 
meat, when it is prepared, is called " stock," 
and it serves as a basis for several kinds of 
soup. For instance : if you add to your head- 
stock bits of macaroni that have been boiled in 
salted water, then cut into short pieces, you 



SOUPS AND STEWS. lOI 

have a macaroni soup ; if you add carrot, turnip 
and other vegetables cut in small dice or fanciful 
designs, you have a Julienne soup ; if you add 
barley you have "barley soup;" if you clear the 
stock and serve it plain you have a consomme. 
But in them all the stock or basis is the same. 

You will see from the pieces of meat that the 
teacher places before you, that she has not 
selected the finest and the most expensive cuts, 
but that she has taken the coarser, heavier 
parts, with a good deal of bone. Listen, and she 
will tell you why. 

" These pieces," she says, " are not available 
for roasting or broiling, yet they are full of 
nutriment, and are more strengthening than the 
finer cuts. We must use them in some way ; it 
will not do to throw away the best part of the 
beef. So we extract the nourishment and make 
it into a soup. The way to get all the strength 
from the meat is to put it — after cutting it into 
small pieces and cracking the bones — into a 
kettle and cover it with cold water; letting it 



102 SOUPS AND STEWS. 

Stand a little while on the back of the stove or 
range, then bringing it forward where it will heat 
very slowly." 

What you will want for the stock is the follow- 
ing list of ingredients : Two pounds of the hind- 
shin of beef, two quarts of salt water, six whole 
cloves, six peppercorns, one bunch of pweet- 
herbs, one blade of mace not more than an inch 
long, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one small onion, 
half of a small carrot, half of a small turnip, one 
sprig of parsle}'. The herbs are sage, savory, 
marjoram, thyme and bay. If you are buying 
them for yourself, buy the whole herbs, dried, 
and not the sifted ones put into boxes. You 
don't know exactly what you are getting in these 
boxes, but you may feel pretty sure that it is 
something beside what you are paying for. If 
you are where you can have a bit of ground, just 
have your own herb-bed. But I shall have some- 
thing more to say about that another time, so I 
won't stop for anything but the suggestion now. 

The ingredients are together now, and the real 



SOUPS AND STEWS. I03 

work begins. Wipe the meat carefully and cut 
it in small pieces, break the bone, and put meat, 
bones and marrow into the soup kettle ; cover 
with the cold water and let it soak for half an 
hour or so, while you are preparing the vegeta- 
bles. Stick the cloves into the onion, put a 
tablespoonful of butter or clear beef dripping 
into a sauce pan and set it over the gas stove ; 
brown the onion in this, being very careful not to 
burn it; cut the carrot and turnip fine ; then add 
them, the browned onion, the spices and herbs, 
to the meat and water. You will let this simmer 
if possible for five or six hours. Perhaps some 
one says that the session of the school will not 
be long enough to allow of giving this time to 
it. I will tell you how they manage in the 
School Kitchen. The class that comes in the 
morning prepares the soup and puts it over to 
cook, and it is finished by the class which comes 
in the aftern-oon. The lessons are repeated the 
next week when the classes are changed, so that 
the afternoon class gets the morning lessons of 



104 SOUPS AND STEWS. 

the week before, and the morning class in its 
turn gets the afternoon lessons, so that each 
class has the entire process of soup-making. 

When the soup is sufficiently cooked, strain it 
through a fine strainer, over which you have laid 
a piece of strainer-cloth. Then set it aside to 
cool. When you wish to use it, take off the 
hard cake of fat which has formed on the top, 
and you will find beneath a thick, rich jelly, 
which is the stock or basis of any soup in the 
list of brown soups you may choose to make. 

I have already told you how by using 
different materials with this stock you may vary 
your soup. I will now give you one or two rules 
for special soups taught at the school. 

Take first rice soup, which is a great favorite. 
To make this, you will use the materials in the 
following proportions : to every cup of stock 
allow one half tablespoonful of rice and one salt- 
spoonful of salt ; cook the rice in boiling salted 
water for half an hour, or until it is tender, then 
drain it and add it to the boiling stock. 



SOUPS AND STEWS. IO5 

For the mixed vegetable or (as it is called on 
hotel bills-of-fare) Julienne soup : to every cup of 
stock one tablespoonful each of carrot and tur- 
nip, and the usual saltspoonful of salt ; wash 
and scrape the carrot, pare the turnip, and cut 
them both into tiny dice about a quarter of an 
inch square, put them into boiling salted water 
and cook them until they are tender, drain them, 
and add them to the boiling stock to which the 
salt has been previously added. It probably is 
unnecessary to tell you that all soups should be 
served hot — nothing is more depressing to the 
stomach or mind than half-chilled soup. 

Now a word about soups without stock ; these 
are made from vegetables, enriched by the addi- 
tion of butter, milk and. cream, and savory by 
the judicious addition of seasonings. Indeed 
one of the first things you will be taught in the 
School Kitchen, is the value of herbs and spices 
as related to food. If any one were to ask me 
the secret of good cooking, I should say " sea- 
soning first, seasoning last, and seasoning all the 



Io6 SOUPS AND STEWS. 

time." It is this that makes food palatable and 
enjoyable. 

The simplest of these soups without stock, as 
well as one of the most nourishing, is the potato 
soup ; it it also inexpensive and easily prepared. 
The proportions and ingredients are as follows : 
for every three potatoes use one pint of milk, or 
if milk is not easily obtainable and you are 
obliged to be sparing of it, you may use one 
half pint of milk and one half pint of water ; one 
tablespoonful of chopped onion, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a speck of white pepper — you will 
find out how much " a speck " is by referring 
back to your table of measurements that was 
given in one of the earlier chapters — one half 
tablespoonful of flour, one half tablespoonful of 
dripping or butter; unless the butter is very 
good use clear beef dripping in preference. So 
much for the ingredients ; now for the soup. 
Wash and pare the potatoes and cook them in 
boiling water until they are soft ; while the pota- 
toes are cooking put the milk over in the double- 




PARSLEY AND THYME. 



SOUPS AND STEWS. IO9 

boiler with the onion. When the potatoes are 
done drain and mash them, add the boihng milk 
and the seasoning, rub them through a strainer, 
put them back, in the double-boiler to boil 
again. Then melt the dripping in a small sauce- 
pan, add the flour, stirring it constantly as it 
thickens. When the flour is well cooked, which 
will be in three or four minutes, add it to the 
boiling soup, stirring it well in ; letting it boil 
five minutes, add one tablespoonful of finely 
chopped parsley and serve it hot, with croutons 
which you learned to make in the chapter on 
baking. 

I have given so much time to soups that I am 
afraid I cannot say as much as I would like 
about stews, but I will have time to tell you 
enough so that you, like the girls in the School 
Kitchen, may dare to try to make a simple stew 
at home. 

In a soup all the nutriment of the meat is ex- 
tracted, and it is served in the liquid form ; in 
making stews the goodness of the meat is to be 



no SOUPS AND STEWS. 

preserved, while a portion of the nutriment is 
to go into the sauce or gravy ; less water is 
used than in making soup and it is cooked at 
a moderate heat for a long time. The pieces 
of meat best adapted for stewing are the pieces 
from the upper part of the shin, the aitch bone, 
the flank and the shoulder ; it is better to use 
meat that has some fat and bone, as the stew 
will be richer. 

You will be surprised to find under how many 
fanciful names the homely stew masquerades. 
We all know the plain Irish stew with its vege- 
tables and dumplings cooked with the meat ; I 
dare say many of you have often wondered, as 
I used to do when a little girl, while puzzling 
over the queer names in the cookery books, what 
a ragout might be. Well, it is nothing more 
or less than our friend, the stew, highly flav- 
ored with wine. A salmi is a stew of game, 
usually made from the left-o\ er pieces of a game 
dinner ; this is also quite highly flavored often- 
est with currant jelly. A haricot is a stew with 



SOUPS AND STEWS. Ill 

the meat and vegetables cut fine. Of course 
you all know that a chowder is a stew of fish, 
clams or oysters ; and that a fricassee is a stew 
in which the meat is browned in fat, either be- 
fore or after cooking in the hot water, and is 
served Without vegetables. A pot-pie is a stew 
in which the dough is put on as a crust, cover- 
ing the whole top of the kettle in which it is 
cooked instead of being used in balls as dump- 
lings. 

The vegetables that are principally used with 
stews are onions, potatoes, carrots and turnips; 
these should be cut small and added to the stew 
about half an hour before it is to be served. 
While the vegetables are boiling the kettle 
should be drawn toward the front of the stove, 
so that the water will more than simmer. If 
you have used the bones and fat in the prepa- 
ration of the stew, you should remove them be- 
fore adding the vegetables. (Dumplings will 
be taught in the next lesson, which will be on 
"batters.") 



112 SOUPS AND STEWS. 

Now for one simple stew, one called in the 
Liverpool School, an " Exeter Stew." Use for 
every half pound of beef, half of an onion, one 
quarter each of turnip and carrot, two potatoes, 
salt and pepper to taste, a little flour, and water 
enough to cover. Wipe the meat, cut it into 
small pieces, removing any bits of crumbly bone 
that may adhere to it. Put the larger bones 
into a kettle and cover with cold water, melt the 
fat of the meat, brown the sliced onion in it and 
skim them out as soon as they are a fine yellow 
brown ; dredge the bits of meat with flour, sprin- 
kle them with salt and pepper and brown them 
in the onion-seasoned fat. Put them and the 
onions into the kettle in which the bone is boil- 
ing and add enough boiling water to cover. 
Simmer from two to three hours, or until the 
meat is tender ; half an hour before serving add 
the other vegetables, which should have been 
cut in small dice ; twenty minutes before serv- 
ing add the potatoes, which have been washed 
and pared and cut into quarters, and parboiled 



SOUPS AND STEWS. 



113 



five minutes. You should take out the fat and 
bone before adding the vegetables. When ready 
to serve, skim out the meat and potatoes upon 
a hot platter, thicken the gravy if you think it 
necessary, add seasoning, then pour it over the 
meat. Half a cup of stewed tomato, that has 
been strained, is an excellent addition. If you 
make this stew successfully you will no doubt 
eat it with as keen a relish as did the girls in 
School Kitchen No. i on the memorable day 
when they and I learned how to make an "Exe- 
ter Stew." 



CHAPTER VIII. 



A LESSON IN BATTERS. 



"T usually happens 
that the first thing 
the young cook 
undertakes to do 
is to make cake. 
I think this will 
be found to be 
the experience of 
fully nine tenths 
of the women who 
have struggled up 
through experi- 
ment and endeav- 
or until they have pretty well mastered the 
difficulties of the art., I couldn't tell you 
114 




BEATING EGGS. 



A LESSON IN BATTERS. II5 

why it is so, but the fact remains undisputed 
and undisputable. I dare say, however, the 
reason is that every detail follows so quickly 
one upon another, that the result is very quickly 
attained. It usually happens, too, that after 
the cake is compounded, it is left by the maker 
in more experienced hands to be baked. 

But in the school-kitchen the cake-making, or 
indeed the mixing of any batters, does not come 
until the pupils have mastered the stove, learned 
to make and keep a fire, and to cook simple food 
without mixing. Those of you who have care- 
fully watched the lessons from the beginning 
will see thaf they came along in sequence, and 
that each step taken prepares the pupils for the 
next one. In this way the teaching is systematic 
and, as in other studies, a principle is not taken 
up until the one which goes before it is thoroughly 
understood. Now, at last, the girls in caps and 
aprons have come to a real mixing-lesson ; a 
lesson in which flour is used for the first time. 
The teacher gives a little practical talk in chem- 



Il6 A LESSON IN BATTERS. 

istry, and shows them why the baking powder 
or the soda and cream of tartar, or the sour milk 
and soda are necessary in these compounds. I 
have no time, nor indeed is this the place to 
talk chemistry ; all I can tell you is that the gas 
which is made by the acid and alkalies being 
mixed together is needed to make the batter 
light. I dare say most of you already know 
that. By her careful questioning the teacher 
sees that her pupils understand this bit of chemi- 
cal teaching, a practical illustration of which they 
are to have in the lesson that is to follow the 
lecture and examination. 

Batters are thin mixtures of liquid and flour, 
with the addition of the ingredients that are to 
make the gas. They are to be quickly prepared, 
and cooked at once, and, as a rule, are better 
eaten as soon as they are cooked, since they are 
likely to lose some of their lightness by stand- 
ing. Batters also should be baked in a very 
quick oven. Indeed the lightness and delicacy 
of a batter-mixture, when cooked, depends upon 



A LESSON IN BATTERS. I17 

the quickness with which it is prepared and 
baked. 

You will learn, before you are through, that 
the term " batters " is a very elastic one, and 
covers all mixtures from griddle-cakes to muffins, 
taking in everything that comes between. Peo- 
ple speak incorrectly of " frying " griddle-cakes 
Really they are baked on two sides on a heated 
surface. When anything is fried, it is dropped 
in hot fat, so that it is completely immersed. 
Doughnuts are fried, and pan-cakes, and some 
kinds of muffins ; drop-cakes and griddle-cakes 
are baked on a hot griddle, one side being 
browned, then the cake turned and browned 
on the other side. Muffins, loaf-cake and gems, 
all of which come under the head of batter- 
mixtures, are baked in an oven. 

Just a word here about frying, as possibly 
there may be no other place where it can so 
well be said. Of course you will understand 
that it is quite impossible to put within the 
limits of a series of chapters like this, the whole 



Il8 A LESSON IN BATTERS. 

detail of a year's work. The best that could be 
done was to take the more prominent features, 
and give those, passing over other processes, or 
at the most merely hinting at them. The chief 
idea of this book is to show, as far as may be 
possibly done, the, scope and thoroughness of 
the work, the systematic methods by which it is 
treated and the full arousal of a half-awakened 
interest all the country over, so that everywhere 
the school-kitchen will become as successful a 
feature of the school-system as it has grown to 
be in Boston. So about "frying": it is quite 
the habit of people to speak of frying, when 
they really mean something else. As in the 
griddle-cakes, when really the mixture is baked, 
so it is with other things. One often hears 
about frying fish or meat, when the process is 
sauteing, or browning one side at a time in a 
little fat. Frying is, as the teacher has told you, 
cooking by immersion, in very hot fat. I think 
you will understand the distinction in the terms, 
and will know when they are correctly used. 



A LESSON IN BATTERS. 



119 



But to return to the lesson on batters. I 
had great fun, one day, in hearing this very 
lesson given as a practical lesson by one of 
the normal class to her classmates. These 
bright young women were "making-believe be 
little girls " with all their might ; but such pre- 
cocious little girls — how they did puzzle the 
teacher with their questions ! One girl was set 
to build the fire. She had been taught just 
how to do it, but she had a theory of her own, 
evidently, that she had been longing for the 
opportunity to apply, and here it came. Well, 
she made her experiment and it was a disastrous 
failure ; the fire refused to burn. It simply 
wouldn't ; and the more she tried the more it 
refused, and all the dozen girls had the most 
mischievous twinkle in their eyes, and only 
waited for the lesson to be over to rally her in 
her theories. Which proved, my dear little 
amateur cooks who read this, that common 
sense is better than theory, and that there 
are some old-fashioned*ways which we can't 



120 A LESSON IN BATTERS. 

improve upon. The end of it was that the fire 
had to be made over from the very beginning, 
and at least half an hour of lesson-time was 
lost. It may be that it wasn't lost, after all; 
it has borne in upon this class of girls, that it 
won't do to try experiments in fire-building if 
one wants breakfast on time. 

The simplest of all the batter-mixtures is the 
griddle-cake. This may be made with sweet 
milk and baking-powder, or with sour milk and 
soda. Some persons add an egg, but it really 
is not necessary; the cakes are just as light 
and toothsome without it as with it. Just here, 
as a preliminary to all batters, it will not be 
amiss to give the proportions of acids and alkalies 
in any mixture. If you are using soda and cream 
of tartar you will allow for every quart of flour, 
one teaspoonful of soda and two teaspoonfuls of 
:ream of tartar. In measuring remember that 
the teaspoonfuls of soda must be level-full, while 
the cream of tartar should be rounded-full. The 
latter is always a fine" smooth powder, velvety 



A LESSON IN BATTERS. 121 

to the touch, while the former is apt to grow 
lumpy. So it should be pulverized, then sifted 
before using, as you will then have more nearly 
correct proportions. 

When you use sour milk you do not need the 
acid of the cream of tartar, but you want the soda 
to counteract the acidity in the milk, and the 
correct proportion is one level teaspoonful of 
soda to every pint of milk. In soft ginger- 
breads and some batter-puddings you will use 
molasses, and as this, in spite of its heavy clog- 
ging sweetness, contains acid you will need the 
soda to counteract it. If you are making a 
batter, the proportion of soda is one level tea- 
spoonful to one cup of the molasses ; if the 
dough is to be stiff — those will be considered 
later — one half a teaspoonful of soda is suffi- 
cient for the cup of molasses. If you use baking- 
powder, in place of cream of tartar and soda, 
the proportion will be one level teaspoonful of 
baking powder to each cup of flour or meal, 
whichever you use. 



122 A LESSON IN BATTERS. 

And now for the griddle-cakes. The rule on 
the school-kitchen cards, by which the class is 
cooking, gives the following proportions : one 
cup of flour ; one saltspoonful of salt ; one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder ; one scant cup of 
sweet milk, and one teaspoonful of melted but- 
ter. This may be varied by using sour milk 
in the same proportion as the sweet, and soda 
in place of baking powder. If any one is so 
fortunate as to live on a dairy farm, butter- 
milk may be substituted for the sour milk, in 
which case the tablespoonful of melted butter 
may be omitted. Sift the dry ingredients to- 
gether, that is, the flour, baking powder (or 
soda) and salt ; then add the milk, making a 
batter about like thick cream. Add the melted 
butter last. Cook on a well-greased griddle that 
is hot enough to bake the cakes without burn-, 
ing them. When the upper side has filled with 
bubbles turn the cake over and brown the other 
side. 

There are some persons who object to the 



A LESSON IN BATTERS. 1 23 

use either of baking powder or soda and cream 
■yt tartar, but who make batters light without 
them by excessive beating. Among the quick 
cakes prepared by them in this way are " pop- 
overs;" these are as light as vanity and there 
is just about as much to them. If you wish to 
try them you may use one cup of flour, one cup 
of milk, an egg, and one salt-spoonful of salt. 
Sift the salt and flour together and add half of 
the quantity of milk slowly, making a smooth 
paste ; when it is well mixed and no lumps of 
flour, no matter how tiny, are left, add the 
remainder of the milk and the egg, which has 
been beaten to perfect lightness. Beat the 
whole together thoroughly, and cook at once in 
hot buttered gem pans or earthen cups, for half 
an hour or until the cakes are well " popped 
over," inventing their name, and of a delicious 
golden brown. You may use these as breakfast 
cakes, eaten with butter like muffins, or you 
may serve them for dessert with a rich, hot 
sauce. You will like them either way. 



124 A LESSON IN BATTERS. 

When the " big blizzard " struck New York, a 
lady well-known as an editor and writer, got 
snow-bound in a little town just outside the 
city ; so prisoned were the residents by the 
elements, that neither " butcher nor baker, nor 
candlestick- maker " could get at them, and as 
there were quite a number of persons in the 
house at which this lady was staying, the pro- 
visions soon grew scanty. Among the neces- 
sary articles which gave out were eggs ; and 
there were none to put in the muffins for break- 
fast, when suddenly some body remembered 
" snow pan-cakes," and they were speedily con- 
cocted, and so successful were they that every 
body went away, when the blockade was raised, 
singing their praises. The story got into all 
the papers, and so did the receipt ; but the 
cooking schools were ahead of the papers, for 
they had already taught the girls how to make 
them. Use one half cup of flour, and one salt- 
spoonful of salt (sifted together), add one half a 
cup of milk and beat very thoroughly ; when it 



A LESSON IN BATTERS. 1 25 

is beaten stir lightly in a heaping tablespoonful 
of newly-fallen snow. Cook like large griddle- 
cakes, and while hot spread with butter, sugar 
and nutmeg, or with jam, roll them over and 
over like a jelly roll, and eat them at once ; 
don't talk until the last mouthful is finished, 
then be as ecstatic as you please. 

And now I am going to tell you, just as Miss 
Hope did the girls in School-Kitchen No. i, 
how to make an old-fashioned molasses ginger- 
bread. The following are the proportions : one 
half cup of molasses, one half tablespoonful of 
ginger, one saltspoonful of salt, one half tea- 
spoonful of soda, one tablespoonful of clear 
beef dripping — or you may use butter — one 
quarter of a cup of hot water (boiling) and one 
cup of flour. The ginger, soda and salt are 
added to the molasses ; the softened dripping is 
then put in, and the mixture beaten well to- 
gether ; next the boiling water is added, then 
the flour ; beat again thoroughly, pour into a 
well-greased shallow pan and bake in a hot 



126 A LESSON IN BATTERS. 

oven. It will take about twenty minutes to 
bake the loaf. 

And now for the dumplings which I promised 
you when we had the stew. To a pint of flour, 
use half a teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder and one scant cup of milk. 
Sift together the flour, baking-powder and salt. 
Stir in the milk to make a soft dough. Drop 
them, with the spoon, into the boiling stew. 
They will rest on the meat and potato ; cover 
them, and let them cook ten minutes. Do not 
lift the cover in that time. Serve as soon as 
done. You will find them very nice and light. 

I will give you the School corn-cake, and that 
must finish the batters, although there is more 
that might be said. 

Don't you wish the School-Kitchen was an 
accomplished fact in your town ? And are you 
all working toward that end ? You know you 
have something to do about making public 
opinion in all the matters in which you are 
deeply interested. Fathers and mothers are 



A LESSON IN BATTERS. 1 27 

pretty sure to feel what their children feel, and 
to desire to give them that they want, when 
they feel that the " want " is sensible and right. 
And who is the " public " that is so much talked 
about if it isn't the aggregate of fathers and 
mothers all through the community? 

But we'll never get to the corn-cake if we don't 
go on. We'll make ready with one cup of flour, 
one half cup of fine yellow cornmeal, one 
quarter of a cup of sugar, one half teaspoonful 
of salt, one tablespoonful of cream of tartar — ■ if 
you use sweet milk, omit it if the milk is sour — 
one half teaspoonful of soda, one cup of milk 
— either sweet or sour — one egg, one table- 
spoonful of dripping or butter. Mix all the 
dry things together; beat the egg, add the milk 
to it, put it into the mixed dry ingredients, mix 
well together, and last of all add the melted 
butter. Beat well and bake in muffin rings or a 
shallow pan for about twenty minutes. Then 
you have a corn-cake that is good enough for 
your breakfast, or mine, or Queen Victoria's. 



CHAPTER IX. 



BREAD-MAKING. 




AS I sit writing 
floats in fro 



ig there 
from the 
pantry beyond the 
kitchen a sweet girl- 
ish voice singing the 
dear old hymn, 

" O mother dear, Jeru- 
salem," 

and as a sort of ac- 
companiment comes 
a soft thumping 
sound. This pecu- 
liar sort of accompaniment I have learned to 
know is made by the slipping of the bread-board 
on the table, as the fourteen-year-old daughter 
128 



KNEACING. 



BREAD-MAKING. 1 29 

kneads the dough that she is just setting for 
to-morrow morning's baking. 

She took the task of making the family bread 
during one of the domestic emergencies that 
occur in every family, and she has kept it for 
three months, until she is an accomplished bread- 
maker, and enjoys her work, not minding it at 
all, nor considering it a hard task. She does 
not go to the Public School Cooking Classes 
because she does not live in Boston ; but she 
has learned to do a good many things, and likes 
trying experiments. It is odd, isn't it, that I 
should write this chapter on bread to the accom- 
paniment of the kneading and the little glad 
song of the maker ? 

But you and I must run away from the Ded- 
ham kitchen and its happy occupant, and find 
ourselves one of the class in the School-Kitchen. 
It is an important day in the school when bread 
is to be made. The girls really believe then 
that they are genuine cooks. They put on 
their aprons and caps with greater alacrity than 



1^0 BREAD-MAKING. 

usual, full of the importance of the occasion 
and anxious to begin. 

Of course the rules for yeast and for bread 
that I am going to give you are the ones in use 
at the school, and as I have seen and tasted 
the bread made there, I think them very good. 
The yeast really used is the compressed yeast 
that is so universally liked by housekeepers, but 
as there are liable to be occasions when this 
yeast is not obtainable, it has been considered 
wise to teach the pupils to make their own yeast. 
Of course this is not at all likely to occur in 
towns where shops are convenient and one can 
run out and fill one's household needs at an 
instant's notice. But if one lives at a distance 
from stores, it is quite a convenience to have 
one's own yeast jug to go to whenever bread is 
to be made. Most housekeepers living on farms 
and far away from shopping centers keep their 
own yeast constantly on hand, never allowing 
themselves to be quite out of it, generally using 
the last cupful to start the new supply with. 



BREAD-MAKING. 131 

It is not a difficult matter to malte tlie yeast, 
as you shall see. But first I must tell you that 
there is a good deal of practical chemistry in 
this lesson, which you and I must omit as we 
have not the space for more than the practical 
working facts. Indeed, there is a scientific rea- 
son for everything that is done in practical cook- 
ing, some of which I dare say you may have 
found out for yourself. If you haven't you must 
manage somehow to get the school-training, and 
then you will know all about it. 

And now for the yeast, made by using the 
following ingredients in these proportions : 

One large potato, one tablespoonful of hops 
loose, one pint of boiling water, one heaping 
tablespoonful of flour, one heaping teaspoonful 
of sugar, one heaping teaspoonful of salt, one 
quarter of a teaspoonful of ginger, one half a 
yeast cake dissolved in half a cup of lukewarm 
water, or one half a cup of yeast. Wash the 
potato well, pare it and put it in cold water to 
soak. Steep the hops in the boiling water. 



132 bread-mAking. 

Mix the flour, sugar, ginger and salt in a large 
bowl, then grate the potato into this flour mix- 
ture ; let the hop-water boil for one minute, then 
strain it over the potato and flour, and mix it as 
quickly as possible. If it does not thicken like 
starch place it over the fire for a few minutes. 
If it is too thick add boiling water until it is as 
thick as cream ; set it aside to cool, and when 
it is lukewarm add the yeast. Set in a warm 
place to rise, until it is frothy and light. Beat 
it down every half-hour. When it is risen suffi- 
ciently put it in a jar or a glass bottle, and keep 
it cool. When you have to take some of the 
yeast out do not take the jar into a warm place, 
but pour it out where it is kept, and mind that 
the cork is replaced at once. 

You will see that the potato is not cooked, 
but is grated raw. Now many of the rules that 
are in use in families call for boiled potatoes. 
I do not suppose that the yeast itself is any 
better made with the uncooked potatoes, but it 
keeps better. It will sour quicker when the ceoked 



BREAD-MAKING. I33 

potato is used, just as any cooked vegetables 
spoil more quickly than the uncooked ones. 
Perhaps some of you may be able to give your 
mothers a point just here in regard to yeast- 
making. It is more trying both to fingers and 
temper to grate the raw potato than to mash 
the cooked one, but the result will be better, and 
that is worth taking a little extra trouble for, 
isn't it ? In fact, my little cooks, you will find 
as you go along that the trouble taken does re- 
pay you, no matter what it is that you are doing. 
And in nothing does one get so satisfactorily 
rewarded for the extra care as in cooking. Ask 
your mother if it isn't so, you little doubter ; 
and you too, who think " it's all nonsense to 
take such pains ; it won't be any better for it." 
All this will be borne in upon you in the School 
Kitchen, and you will soon become assured that 
there is no royal road to anything that is worth 
doing, and that learning to cook is very much 
like all the rest. 

But now comes the bread-making, the yeast 



134 BREAD-MAKING. 

having been made and bottled. (In regard to 
the respective merits of the yeasts ; in general 
results they are the same, but it must be ac- 
knowledged that the compressed yeast makes 
the bread finer and whiter than the home-made 
yeast does, but it is no sweeter, nor has it a 
better flavor.) The rule here given will make 
either one loaf of bread or a pan of biscuits. 
You increase the rule as you desire a larger 
quantity. Use one cup of milk or water, luke- 
warm, one half a teaspoonful of salt, one half a 
teaspoonful of sugar, one quarter of a cup of 
yeast, or one quarter of a yeast cake dissolved 
in one quarter of a cup of water, and from three 
to three and a half cups of flour. If you use 
milk you must heat it to boiling in the double 
heater ; mere scalding will not do ; it must be 
boiled ; the bread will keep better, and the 
dough will not turn sour in rising, as it often 
will do in warm weather, even when great care 
is exercised. But the School Kitchen girls are 
taught to raise their bread dough with water. 



BREAD-MAKING. I35 

Sift the flour into the mixing bowl, which should 
be of earthen ware, as this holds the heat bet- 
ter than tin, and makes the bread rise more 
quickly. Mix the salt, sugar and yeast, then 
add the milk or water, and pour into the bowl 
which holds the flour ; mix it thoroughly with a 
knife, and then, when it is well mixed, and is 
stiff enough to knead, turn it out on to a well- 
floured board, and knead it until it is soft and 
elastic and can be worked without any flour. 
You need not make hard work of the kneading; 
it is lightness and quickness of touch rather 
than an expenditure of strength which is re- 
quired. What is wanted is to get it well-mixed, 
so that every particle shall be permeated with 
the yeast, and the whole mass shall be perfectly 
smooth and free from lumps. 

I once had a cook who was trying to teach 
the second girl to make bread. She said to me 
one day, after we had been treated to soifie 
bread of the pupil's making that was far below 
the standard : " Indeed, ma'am, and it's no use 



136 BREAD-MAKING. 

trying to teach Nellie to make bread, she can- 
not do it ; she is too heavy-handed ; she'll never 
make a cook." 

I didn't quite see what Maggie meant, but I 
found out by watching. The girl moved clumsily ; 
she touched things as though her hand was of 
iron; she clutched rather than held; there was 
no lightness, nor alertness to any of her move- 
ments. She was hopelessly " heavy," and her 
hands spoiled the bread rather than lightened 
it. I have seen a few people like her since, and 
I have found out in every case that they were 
not good cooks. No matter how hard they tried, 
they could not succeed. It was in the hope- 
less heaviness of their movements. Now all 
this won't be taught you in the cooking school, 
because there it is the duty of the teacher to 
make the pupils do things, and never let them 
think they cannot. But I give you this infor- 
mation out of my own experience ; it will per- 
haps assist you in time to come when it shall fall 
to your lot to look for the new servant girl. 



BREAD-MAKING. 



137 



The bread has been "put to rise" in the 
bowl, neatly covered with a clean bread cloth, 
with a pan closely put over it to keep out the air, 
so that a crust may not form on the outside, but 
that the whole mass may be kept soft. The lesson 
is over. We are to come again for the baking. 

We left our bread in a warm, sheltered place, 
where it should be subject to no sudden change 
of temperature, and we have come again to find 
it beautifully risen, ready to make into loaf or 
biscuit. When well-risen it should be double 
its original bulk; work it over in the bowl, 
doubling it from the edges toward the center 
until it is smooth, let it rise again, which it will 
do quickly, until it is double its bulk, then shape 
into loaves and set to rise closely covered, in 
the pans in which it is to be baked. Let it rise 
until it is light, then bake in a hot oven, or one 
so hot that you can hold the hand in twelve 
seconds without getting too hot. It you have a 
cooking thermometer, which, by the way, very 
few do have, it should register four hundred de- 



138 BREAD-MAKING. 

grees. At first you will have to take counsel with 
some one to whom bread-baking is not a novelty. 

Have any of you ever had anything to do with 
those exasperating people, who, when asked for 
any instruction, always say " use your own 
judgment " ? Aren't they provoking ? Why, 
how is the novice in anything to have any judg- 
ment to use? What is "judgment" but the 
outcome of experience ? Knowledge of any 
kind doesn't come by intuition ; it is the result 
of repeated experiment. Now the next time 
any one tells you to "use your judgment " when 
you ask them how long to bake the loaf, or how 
hot to have the oven, or how much baking-pow- 
der to put into the muffins — get them to define 
judgment for you, and then ask them very re- 
spectfully how you have had time or opportunity 
to acquire it. 

In the meantime bake your bread from forty 
to sixty minutes ; see that it properly browns, 
a lovely golden color, and that it has a hollow 
sound when you thump it with your knuckle. 



CHAPTER X. 



FISH AND EGG DISHES. 



IT is a part of the economical plan of the 
School-Kitchen system, that the special les- 
sons on fish and eggs should be given at the 
time of the year when they are the most plen- 
tiful, and the least expensive. Nature has a 
wise way of arranging things, and it is quite in 
accordance with her usual wisdom and fore- 
thought that both these articles of food should 
be the least costly at the season when the sys- 
tem most demands them ; that is, in the spring 
and summer. In the cold weather of winter we 
need the heat-giving of meat; but in the summer, 
and indeed in the spring, when the first warm 
days are coming on, the meat in any quantity 
is distasteful, and one likes best the fresh 
139 



I40 FISH AND EGG DISHES. 

eggs and the delicate fish. You will probably 
understand, through your lessons in chemistry 
and in physiology, that meat stimulates nerves 
and brain, and that this stimulation should be 
avoided in warm weather. 

Fish and eggs are given in separate lessons, 
but we take them together to save space. To 
begin with the fish. There really is no more 
valuable food in all the list. It is easy of 
digestion, it is inexpensive, and it is plenty. It 
has not the amount of nutrition which meat 
possesses, but it has sufl[icient, and as it has a 
large amount of phosphorus, it is very bene- 
ficial. Fish should be eaten perfectly fresh, 
while the flesh is yet firm ; otherwise all its 
beneficent qualities are lost, and it becomes 
poisonous. Never buy fish when the flesh is 
soft and flabby, unless you desire a genuine fit 
of indigestion, if not a severe and painful illness. 

In one of the school-kitchens a class of boys 
has been admitted during the winter just past, 
and it has proven a very bright class. 



FISH AND EGG DISHES. 141 

" We had a prime fish-chowder to day," said 
one of these boys to his teacher, on coming to 
the school in the afternoon. 

" Did you malce it ? " queried tlie teacher. 

" No. I gave my mother a cooking-school 
lesson, and saw that she did it just right. 
Father says it was the best he ever tasted." 

And now I am going to give you the school- 
kitchen rule for that " prime fish-chowder." 
You will observe the following proportions in 
preparing your ingredients : 

To every pound of fish — cod or haddock is 
the best — use a one-inch cube of salt pork, half 
of an onion, two potatoes, a speck of pepper, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one cup of milk and two crackers. 

See that the fish is carefully cleaned and cut 
into pieces after the bone is removed. You 
may bone the fish yourself, or the marketman 
will do it for you. Cook the bones of the fish 
and the head for half an hour in boiling water, 
then strain the water from it and save. Cut the 



142 FISH AND EGG DISHES. 

salt pork and onion into dice, and fry until they 
are a light brown. In the meantime slice the 
potatoes, and let them scald for five minutes, 
pour off the water and add to the scalded 
potatoes the bone water and the pork fat, which 
has been strained to remove the pieces of onion 
and the solid bits of pork. Put this over the 
fire in a stew-pan, and when it is boiling add 
the fish, and simmer ten minutes or until the 
potatoes are tender ; last of all add the pepper, 
butter, milk and crackers. 

I am sure if any of you try this receipt you 
will find that it is delicious, even if you do not, 
like myself, care much about the ordinary fish- 
chowder. You see this is an extraordinary one. 

There are a variety of ways of cooking fish, 
but they are most generally baked or broiled ; 
sometimes they are boiled, and sometimes fried ; 
but the most wholesome ways are the two first 
mentioned. 

The fish which are the oftenest used for 
baking are cod, haddock, blue-fish, bass, shad 



FISH AND EGC DISHES. 1 43 

and small salmon. The fish should be well 
cleaned — indeed that is necessary whatever 
way it is to be cooked — wiped dry and rubbed 
with salt. It should then be stuffed and the 
edges sewed together. The stuffing will be 
prepared by the following rule, and it is suffi- 
cient for a fish weighing from four to six pounds. 
Use one cup of cracker-crumbs, one salt-spoon- 
ful of salt, one salt-spoonful of pepper, and one 
tablespoonful of chopped onion, one teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of capers, 
one teaspoonful of chopped pickles, and a quarter 
of a cup of melted butter. The crackers should 
be moistened with hot water if you desire a moist 
stuffing, otherwise it will be dry and crumbly. 
After the fish is stuffed cut gashes two inches 
apart on each side. Put narrow strips of fat 
salt pork in the gashes, and in the pan under 
the fish. Place the fish upright in the pan by 
skewering the head one way and the tail another. 
Dredge the fish with flour. Put it into a hot 
oven without water ; when the flour is brown, 



144 F'SH AND EGG DISHES. 

baste with the pork fat, and baste often. It is 
done when the flesh separates easily from the 
bone. Remove it carefully to a hot platter, 
draw out the strings or skewers and serve with 
drawn butter or egg sauce. 

You "don't know how to make either?" 
Well, you will very soon, if you will only follow 
the directions that the cooking-school teacher 
will give you. Here is the drawn butter : 

Use one pint of hot water or milk — the lat- 
ter is by far the best, if you can get it — one 
scant cup of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
one half a teaspoonful of salt, and one half a 
salt-spoonful of pepper. Put half the butter 
into a sauce-pan over the fire ; let it melt, but 
not burn ; when it is melted add the dry flour 
and mix well. Add the hot water or milk, a 
little at a time, and stir rapidly as it thickens. 
When perfectly smooth add the remainder of 
the butter by degrees, and stir until it is dis- 
solved. Add the salt and pepper. When care- 
fully made this sauce should be free from 



FISH AND EGG DISHES. 145 

lumps ; but if not smooth, strain it before serv- 
ing. Now egg sauce is simply this drawn 
butter with two or three hard boiled eggs, 
chopped or sliced, added to it. 

The fish that are broiled are mackerel, white- 
fish, blue-fish that are too small to bake, trout, 
small cod, shad, or any other thin fish ; also slices 
of halibut, salmon, and other thick fish. When the 
entire fish is broiled it should be split down the 
back, and the head and tail removed. It is a 
good plan to remove the backbone also. If 
the fish is oily it needs only to be sprinkled with 
salt and pepper ; if it is dry, the fish should be 
spread with half-melted butter before broiling. 

The double wire broiler should be well- 
greased ; put the thickest edge of the fish next 
the middle of the broiler ; broil the flesh side 
first until it is brown, lifting it up often that it 
may not burn. The other side should be broiled 
just enough to crisp the skin. Of course the 
time the fish should cook will vary with its 
thickness. When it is done the flesh will look 



146 FISH AND EGG DISHES. 

white and firm, and will separate easily from 
the bone. After the fish is cooked, season it 
with butter, salt, and pepper, and lemon juice. 
The latter may be omitted if preferred. 

Now the lesson about eggs. 

It is surprising how many people there are 
who do not use eggs as a matter of course for 
an article of diet. In the spring time, partic- 
ularly, they are more healthful than heavy mat- 
ter, and they are then at their cheapest, so it is 
not extravagant to use them freely. Many per- 
sons who do not care specially for them when 
boiled, or who have grown tired of them from 
constantly having them cooked in that way, 
would like them if they v/ere made into an 
omelet or dropped on toast ; they somehow 
seem more delicate when cooked in either of 
these ways, and they look very much nicer 
coming to the table. It is not the easiest thing 
in the world to make an omelet ; indeed it is a 
little troublesome until one gets quite accus- 
tomed to it. But practise will soon enable one 



FISH AND EGG DISHES. 147 

to not only prepare, but to cook — which is the 
difficult part — an omelet which shall rival that 
of the experienced cook. For a small omelet 
you will use two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
milk, one salt-spoonful of salt, one salt-spoonful 
of pepper. Beat the yolks of the eggs until 
they are light and creamy, and to these beaten 
yolks add the milk, salt and pepper. Beat the 
whites until they are stiff and dry. Stir them 
lightly into the yolks until they are just covered, 
but do not beat them. When your smooth 
omelet pan or small spider is hot, rub it round 
the edge with a teaspoonful of butter ; let 
the butter run over the pan, so that it is entirely 
covered, and when it is bubbling turn in the 
omelet quickly. Cook very carefully, not over 
the hottest part of the fire, else it would burn, 
until it is slightly browned underneath ; put it 
in the oven, so that the top may dry, but do not 
let it burn ; fold toward the right, put a hot 
platter over the pan, then turn all over, so that 
the omelet will drop evenly on to the platter. 



148 FISH AND EGG DISHES. 

This is really the most difficult of all the egg 
dishes, and the only one that it is necessary to 
give, since all the others are so simple and in 
such constant use that it would be like relating 
an old story to tell about them. 

It may seem to you that this chapter is largely 
filled with " rules." Possibly ; but there is so 
little to say in a general way about either of the 
food articles, that the space may be given to 
detailed work. Everything which has been de- 
scribed is so simple that it may be tried at 
home, and with little fear of failure. 

In connection with the egg-lesson simple cake 
batters are taught, and these lessons the girls 
seem to enjoy very much. Somehow girls al- 
most all like cake-making. That, and making 
delicate desserts, are the fancy work of cooking. 
It is all very well, too, in its way, and a certain 
amount of it, but after all it is the every-day 
substantial food that is the most necessary, and 
that must be done. 



CHAPTER XL 



INVALID COOKERY. 



THERE is no more important branch of 
cookery than that which is devoted to 
the sick room, and it shows wisdom on the part 
of those in charge at the schools that they have 
so emphasized this portion of the work, and laid 
out the lessons pertaining to it so carefully. 

Prob-^bly most of you know, from experience, 
how very greatly trifles are magnified when 
one is ill. Matters that are not of the slight- 
est consequence in health, become very im- 
portant when one is held down by sickness. 
Things that would be passed over usually, will 
then worry and fret one indescribably ; while 
the least act that is kindly and thoughtful will 
be magnified in the same proportion. 
149 



15° 



INVALID COOKERY. 



One of the first things I remember in my 
life, is being very ill with the measles. I could 

not have been more 
OS^^^^ than three or four 

years old. I had a 
nightdress, which in 
addition to the ruf- 
fles that ornament- 
ed it, had a double 
row of stitching on 
the bands of neck 
and sleeves. I was 
particularly iond of 
that stitching, and 
I used to watch for 
the day when it 
would be the time 
to wear that night- 
dress. I really 
grieved when I had 
to take it off to have it washed. One morn- 
ing I had been bathed, and I was waiting 




CARING FOR THE SICK. 



INVALID COOKERY. 151 

for the clean nightdress ; there wasn't much 
anticipation about it, for I had worn the 
stitched one the day before. I was lying list- 
lessly, until the fresh robe should be brought. 
As it came my childish eyes caught the sight of 
stitching. I cried for very joy, I was so happy. 
The dear mother, who always did the sweetest 
and nicest things for her little girl, had sat up 
after the nervous, troublesome child was asleep, 
and had with her own kind fingers stitched the 
little robe. After that she stitched them all, 
and I know I got well much quicker for it. 
Now I dare say this seems a silly little story to 
tell, but it proves what I said — that trifles 
affect sick people much more than they do those 
who are well. 

A friend was telling me, not long since, about 
an experience she had while ill. " I was so 
ashamed of myself," she said, "but I could not 
help it. My nurse had gone out, and I took the 
fancy that I wanted some cream toast. I asked 
my daughter, a girl of about fifteen, to make it 



IS2 INVALID COOKERY. 

for me. She did so, and when she brought it to 
me I cried just as hard as I could cry. She 
had put it on to a plate that I particularly hated, 
and the very sight of it took away my appetite. 
The child was as distressed as I was, for she 
really wanted to serve me. I could have boxed 
my own ears when I got better and thought it 
over, but it was a very serious matter at the 
time. However, it was a lesson my girl will 
never forget, and I am sure the next time she is 
called upon to serve an invalid, she will bring 
the best china plate in the house." 

Now part of the teaching at the school is how 
to serve as well as how to cook. The tray for 
the invalid must be carefully prepared ; the 
tray cloth must be spotless, and the dishes nice 
and fresh. Then, do not put on so much food 
that it takes away the appetite to look at it; it 
is easy to replenish if more is wanted. What 
you are to do is to coax the unwilling appetite, 
by literally making things look "good enough 
to eat." Take care that nothing spills in carry- 



INVALID COOKERY. 153 

ing, from cup, bowl or glass. If hot food is to 
be served, cover it so that it may not be cooled 
while it is taken from the kitchen to the sick 
room. A little heed will enable you to do all 
this, and you may be as adept at serving your 
invalid as you are in cooking for her. 

Probably nothing — unless it be gruel — is 
oftener used in the invalid's room than toast. 
It seems a very simple thing to make and yet 
nothing can be more easily spoiled. It may be 
burned, when the scorched taste will make it 
unpalatable ; or it may be so quickly done that 
the outside will be hard, while the inside of the 
slice will be clammy and consequently indigest- 
ible. It should be neither; but should be dry 
all through, and of a delicate golden brown. 
Stale bread should be used, and it should be 
cut in even slices, about a quarter of an inch 
thick ; no thicker, certainly. When it is cut put 
it on a toaster or fork, and move it gently over 
the fire until it is dry ; then hold it nearer the 
fire until it is a beautiful golden brown. If 



154 INVALID COOKERY. 

plain toast is wanted serve it at once, hot and 
dry. If plain water toast, or as it is oftener 
called, " wet butter toast," is desired, you will 
prepare the slices as for the dry toast ; have a 
shallow pan with one pint of boiling water and 
one half a teaspoonful of salt in it. Dip each 
slice of dry toast quickly in the water, then 
spread with butter and serve very hot. Perhaps 
it will be milk toast your invalid will want; then 
you will observe the following rules : Prepare 
the bread, as if for the plain dry toast. For the 
"dip" you will use materials in the following 
proportion : 

One cup of milk, scalded, one half a table- 
spoonful of corn starch, or one tablespoonful 
of flour ; one half a tablespoonful of butter, 
and one half a teaspoonful of salt. Melt 
the butter in a granite saucepan, add the dry 
corn starch or flour, mix well together, taking 
care that the mixture does not burn ; add one 
third of the milk, which has been heated in the 
double boiler, stir well as it boils and thickens. 



INVALID COOKERY. 155 

then add half the remaining milk, stir again, 
until it is smooth and entirely free from lumps ; 
when it is quite smooth add the remainder of 
the milk and the salt. Pour this dip between 
each slice of toast, and over the whole. If 
you want the slices to be soft, dip them in hot 
salted water before pouring the dip or sauce 
over them. 

You will follow these same directions in mak- 
ing toast for the family table. They are at once 
the easiest and the most correct. You will find 
them prove very nice, too, I am sure. 

Perhaps this is as good a place as any to tell 
you that the cream for the toast is the " white 
sauce " or " cream sauce " that is used for so 
many purposes in cooking. Whenever you have 
a rule given you that says " make a white sauce," 
you may turn to this cream dip, and there you 
have it. Made a bit thicker it is used to mix 
croquettes, to cream fish, to pour over vege- 
tables that you serve a la creme, as it is called. 
Like many another high-sounding article of 



156 INVALID COOKERY. 

food, it is very simple when reduced to its low- 
est terms. This sauce with egg boiled hard 
and cut up in it is " egg sauce ; " with capers 
added to it, it is " caper sauce ; " you may flavor 
it in as many ways as you desire, with lemon, 
onion juice, cayenne, the kind of seasoning you 
use depending upon the use you are to make of 
it. As you progress in your knowledge of cook- 
ing you will soon come to know that many an 
every-day dish is hidden under a fine, high- 
sounding name. 

Of course it is quite necessary that you shall 
know how to make gruels, for they are much 
used in sickness. One of the most commonly- 
used gruels is that made from oatmeal. The 
girls at the school kitchen get to the point 
where they do this very nicely, and I think one 
of the most satisfactory features of the cooking 
exhibition that was given one spring in con- 
nection with the sewing exhibition, was the 
" invalid cookery." There were glasses of beef 
tea and lemonade, molds of blanc-mange and 



INVALID COOKERY. 157 

bowls of gruel. More comment was elicited by 
these dishes than by any of the others. For 
some reason or other the visitors seemed 
surprised at seeing them ; they evidently had 
not understood the full scope of the School 
Kitchen work. 

But we must make the gruel, and not content 
ourselves with merely talking of it. Pound one 
half a cup of coarse oatmeal until it is mealy ; 
the best way to do this is to tie it in a coarse 
cloth, and pound it with a wooden mallet. It is 
thus bruised without waste. Put it into a 
tumbler with cold water ; stir it well and when 
the sediment has settled pour ofif the mealy 
water into a saucepan. Fill it again with water, 
stirring it, letting it settle and pouring off as 
before. Do this a third time, being very careful 
each time not to disturb the sediment in pouring. 
Boil this water which you turned off for twenty 
minutes, stirring it often. Add one saltspoonful 
of salt, and if it is too thick add a little cream 
or milk. 



158 INVALID COOKERY. 

In making the gruel this way you get all 
the nourishing quality of the meal, as that 
mixes with the water, and only the hulls, or 
coarse indigestible portion is left. It is not a 
difficult piece of work, and I think you will find 
it very satisfactory. 

The old-fashioned "milk porridge " is another 
of the invalid dishes that is taught. It is rarely 
one finds anybody except the trained nurse or 
the old-time housel;eeper who makes it nowa- 
days. I don't think it is so palatable as either 
the oatmeal or Indian meal gruel; but there are 
some diseases in which it is better for the pa- 
tient than either of these. The doctor will 
always order it when he finds it needed, and all 
you have to do is to follow the school rule for 
making, and your invalid will get just what the 
doctor meant she should have. You will use 
two dozen raisins quartered, two cups of milk, 
one tablespoonful of flour and one saltspoonful 
of salt. Boil the raisins in a little water for 
twenty minutes ; let the water boil away and 



INVALID COOKERY. 159 

add the milk ; when this boils add the flour, 
which you have rubbed to a thin paste with cold 
water, and boll it for at least eight or ten min- 
utes. Season it with salt, and strain before you 
serve it. You see how very simple all this is. 
Surely your sick-room cookery is not going to 
prove very difficult. 

The delicate appetite of the convalescent will 
be tempted almost invariably by blanc-mange. 
There are many preparations from which it may 
be made — farina, corn starch or arrowroot ; 
but that which is the most highly considered is 
made from the Irish moss; the genuine blanc- 
mange, as it was originally made. You will 
take to a quarter of a cup of Irish moss one 
pint of milk, one half a saltspoonful of salt, and 
one half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Soak the 
moss in cold water until it is soft ; pick it over 
carefully and wash it, removing anything that 
may adhere to it, so that it shall be perfectly* 
clean. When it is thus prepared tie it in a thin 
lace bag, and put it into the double boiler with 



l6o INVALID COOKERY. 

the milk ; boil until you find that it will thicken 
when it is dropped upon a cold plate. That is 
your test for it. Then add the salt, strain it 
and add the flavoring. Wet a mold or a cup 
in cold water, and pour the blanc-mange into it; 
when it cools put it upon the ice until you wish 
to serve it ; when you are ready for it turn it 
out into a pretty dish, and serve sugar and cream 
with it. Like the toast, the blanc-mange may 
be made in this way for tea, or for a dinner 
dessert. It is " none too good " for any of us, I 
assure you. 

Irish moss also is used to make a jelly that is 
at once palatable and delicate, and is very 
grateful to the fever-parched lips of a sick per- 
son. Use one half a cup of Irish moss,- four 
figs, one pint of boiling water, one lemon or 
orange, one third of a cup of sugar. Prepare 
the moss as for the blanc-mange by soaking, 
picking over and washing. Put it into the boil- 
ing water, add the figs and the thin rind of the 
lemon. Simmer until the moss is dissolved, 



INVALID COOKERY. l6l 

then add the lemon or orange juice and the 
sugar, and strain into a cold wet mold. 

Beef tea is an important adjunct in the list of 
invalid dishes. It is used to stimulate and 
nourish when the system has need of quick 
recuperation. This tea that is given here is the 
genuine extract of beef, containing all the 
strengthening properties, and the full nourish- 
ment of the meat. It is not always given in its 
full strength, but diluted with hot water until it 
is at the strength desired by the physician. In 
making it always select the juciest beef, quite 
without regard to tenderness. Indeed, the ten- 
derer the meat is, the less juicy it will be found. 
The lower part of the round is usually found to 
be the best for beef tea. It must be absolutely 
free from fat, only the lean meat being available. 
Cut the beef into quarter-inch dice-shaped 
pieces, and put them in a wide-mouthed bottle ; 
cover the bottle and set it on a tin in a kettle 
of cold water. Set this over the fire and heat 
it gradually. When it comes to a boil keep it 



1 62 INVALID COOKERY. 

gently simmering until the meat is perfectly 
white, looking like pieces of India rubber. 
Then strain out the juice, press it all out from 
the pieces of meat, and season to the taste with 
salt. In making your tea this way you see that 
you will get the actual juice of the beef; every 
particle is extracted, so that the nourishing 
properties are all obtained. 

You should know how to make at least one 
or two cooling drinks for the sick room. Sup- 
pose we take lemonade and eggnog. For the 
first use to every lemon one tablespoonful of 
sugar, and one cup of boiling water. Remove 
the peel in very thin parings, put them into a 
bowl, add the boiling water, and let it stand ten 
minutes, covered. Add the lemon juice and the 
sugar, stir it well to dissolve the sugar. If hot 
lemonade is desired, strain it at once and it is 
ready ; if you wish it cold, set it aside and when 
it is cool, strain it. You may add ice if you 
desire, and the doctor allows it. To make an 
eggnog, you will separate the white and yolk of 



INVALID COOKERY. 1 63 

one egg, and beat the yolk with a tablespoonful 
of sugar until it is light and creamy ; add to this 
one half a cup of milk ; then beat the white of 
the egg to a foam, and stir it lightly into the 
beaten yolk, sugar and milk. It is a delicious 
and a nourishing drink. Try it some day, when 
hungry and tired, and see if I'm not right. 



CHAPTER XII. 



NORMAL TRAINING. 



IT has been quite impossible, within the 
limits of these chapters, to give the entire 
work of the school-kitchens for a year, but if I 
have been successful in even indicating what is 
done in the line of accomplishment I shall be 
glad. I hope you don't find figures stupid, be- 
cause I wish to give you a few facts to remem- 
ber, and use ; for you know you are to be 
earnest workers in the endeavor to have school- 
kitchens introduced into every city and town in 
the country. Do you think this a very hard 
task ? Well, if any one of you had the entire 
work to accomplish, you might hesitate before 
beginning it. But there are a great many of 
you to undertake the labor. Recall what I said 
164 



NORMAL TRAINING. 1 65 

not long since about forming public opinion. 
It would be impossible for any one of you to 
work for the establishment of school-kitchens 
all over the United States, but each one may 
use her influence in whatever place she chances 
to be, and it will be the united effort of so 
many that will tell in the result. 

Of course it is quite necessary that you shall 
be in possession of facts so that you may pre- 
sent them to the people whom you wish to 
convince. It does no good merely to make a 
general statement — skeptical people have a 
way of demanding proof of your assertion — 
and I hope to give you something that shall 
serve you well in your work as an advocate of 
industrial training. 

When the school-kitchens were first estab- 
lished in Boston, some of the people who had 
opposed them most earnestly said they would 
interfere with the regular school-duties; and 
that if so much time was given to outside work 
the scholarship would suffer. But it has not ; 



l66 NORMAL TRAINING. 

on the contrary, teachers say that the girls come 
back to their studies refreshed from the change 
of occupation. You will probably meet this 
same argument — it is a favorite one — and 
there is your reply ready. 

After the school had been in operation about 
a year, all the mothers who had daughters at- 
tending the kitchens, were asked to give their 
opinion of the school and its results. Out of 
over eight hundred mothers who were seen, 
only two expressed themselves as opposed or 
indifferent. All the rest were pleased, and 
grateful for the opportunity given to their 
daughters. 

Many of them said that they had not been 
able to give their girls instruction at home for 
lack of time, others could not risk the waste of 
materials, and they were glad to have them have 
the training because it was what every girl 
needed ; every one testified to the good the teach- 
ing had accomplished and told with pardonable 
pride what the girls had done at home. Some 



NORMAL TRAINING. 167 

of them had even taught their mothers better 
ways of doing things than they had ever known, 
and you would have been both pleased and 
amused to hear the proud tone in the mother's 
voice, as she told of her little girl's achieve- 
ment. One poor Russian Jewess who could 
with difficulty express herself in English, said 
to the visitor : 

"I wish much thank to the congregation for 
give my girl to make so much of good." 

She did well with her limited English, I 
think. 

And now about the cost, which is an im- 
portant consideration. The greatest expense 
comes in the fitting up of the kitchen. I can 
really give you no idea what that will be, even 
approximately, but I am sure if you were to 
ask Miss Romans, No. 26 Berwick Park, Bos- 
ton, she would give you all the information you 
would need, and help you in any way in which 
she could, for no one is more interested in this 
work than she. 



l68 NORMAL TRAINING. 

Then there would be the salary of the 
teacher ; that would be the same as is paid to 
any grammar-school teacher. Sometimes two 
or three small towns that are near together em- 
ploy the same teacher, each town paying a pro- 
portionate part of the salary, and in this way 
doing what they might not feel able to do if 
each one had to bear the whole expense. Here 
you see one of the practical workings of co- 
operation, concerning which so much is said 
nowadays. I can tell you this much about the 
cost of material, however ; the cost for each 
pupil for a lesson is a fraction less than two 
cents. No one can complain much about that, 
and be reasonable. If you are asked if it is 
possible to keep the expense as small in other 
places as in Boston, you can assure your ques- 
tioner that it is. 

The Boston normal training-school for cook- 
ing-teachers provides that the teaching shall be 
uniform, and the course studied is to be adopted 
in every school, and this insures a uniform cost. 



NORMAL TRAINING. 169 

This school has already graduated several pupils, 
and every one has found a place waiting for her 
when she has graduated. You can see by this 
that the work is being carried forward as rapidly 
as teachers can be got ready. The great danger 
is in beginning the work before you are alto- 
gether prepared. There is as much danger 
in undue haste, as there is in delay. I am not 
altogether certain that there isn't more. In any 
important matter like this it is safe to make 
haste slowly. No matter how anxious you are 
to see this work begin in your own town, wait 
until you can secure a teacher trained in the 
normal school, and do not fall into the mis- 
taken notion that anybody can teach cooking 
who can cook. A mistake at the beginning 
would be fatal, and you could never again 
awaken interest in the subject. 

Some of you may be specially interested in 
this traiping-school and for such I will say a 
little more about what is done there. In the 
first place, every applicant for admission must 



170 NORMAL TRAINING. 

be acquainted with the theory of teaching, and 
it is considered a great point in her favor if she 
is a graduate of some Normal school. She 
should possess that particular qualification for 
the work — a liking for it ; and she should deter- 
mine to devote herself to it to the exclusion of 
all other branches, and be a power in her line 
of teaching, 

There is no use in taking up any work in a 
half-hearted way; and if a pupil does not show 
herself disposed to do her best in the school, 
her continuance in the class is not encouraged. 
The teachers very soon discover if a student 
is lacking in the ability to do the work, and 
if there is any doubt of her ultimate success 
as a teacher of cooker}' she is kindly ad- 
vised to turn her efforts in another direction. 
That is fair treatment, certainly, and kindly too. 
For the whole future of a girl may be spoiled 
by allowing her to make a failure when good 
advice, honestly given, might ffave turned her 
in the direction of success. And that is why 



NORMAL TRAINING. 171 

I am SO glad of the interest and care that 
the managers of this particular school give 
to the pupils. 

When a student has taken the course, passed 
the examination, and received her certificate, 
then she may feel that she is well equipped 
for the work, for no certificate would be given 
her had she not won it, you may be sure. The 
course of study includes, beside cooking, les- 
sons in chemistry by the most competent 
teachers, and with the practice lessons in both 
branches, there are frequent lectures by well- 
know specialists. 

And now for the results with the pupils of 
the public schools. I have been often asked 
whether any real good was accomplished by the 
training — that is, whether the children did any 
of the work at home which they were taught at 
the school. I may best reply to this question 
by quoting from the report made by the com- 
mittee on manual training. During one year 
the Boston Public School girls cooked over 



172 NORMAL TRAINING. 

seventeen thousand dishes at home. There 
were two thousand under instruction, so you 
may easily reckon how much each girl did. Of 
course some always do more than others, that 
is so in everything, you know. But the pupils 
of the schools are required to tell the teacher 
what they do at home, and how successful the 
work is, because only in that way is it possible 
to get at the results of the general work. 

If you could see into some of the homes, and 
know what of comfort has come to them since 
the girls have learned how to cook well, you 
would be soon convinced that there is a moral 
as well as a practical side to the matter. At 
least one man has been led to give up his prac- 
tice of going daily to the saloon at eleven 
o'clock for the drink of whiskey to " set him 
up," by the nice cup of chocolate and the corn- 
cake which his little daughter gives him for 
breakfast in place of the sloppy tea and dry 
baker's bread which he used to have. It is 
much easier to be good when one is comfortably 



NORMAl fRAINING. 173 

fed than when one is put off with insufficient 
and illy-cooked food. So you see you have .a 
moral as well as a statistical argument. 

And now, dear girls, whom I have come to 
love very dearly, even without a glimpse of your 
faces, good-b}', and, as Tiny Tim says, 

"God bless us, every one!" 






05 

is, 




/ in the public schoo 

1 Hill 

>4 003 576 31 


! 
1 



=. < 



