
A COLLECTION OF 
RECIPLS DESIGNEP 
FORTWO PERSONS 





m ~" a* 



^ 



■ ■%»MMB» WU *»l H * WW l« « » » 



T 



FROM THE LIBRARY OF 

James B. Herndon, Jr. 



PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
A dministration 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 



TX 715X277 1909 VerSi,yLibrary 
J "f « Jojfwo; a collection of recipes des 




3 1924 001 411 358 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924001411358 



JUST FOR TWO 

A COLLECTION OF RECIPES 

DESIGNED FOR TWO 

PERSONS 



Compiled by 
AMELIE LANGDON 



Fourth Edition, Revised and Enlarged 



MINNEAPOLIS 

The H. W. WILSON COMPANY 
1909 



Copyright 1906 
By AMELIE LANGDON 



PREFACE 



Recipes designed for small families are rare, and 
yet there are thousands of wives in our cities who 
cook for only two. It follows that they must either 
cut down large recipes found in the ordinary cook 
book, which can rarely be done successfully, or they 
must cook the full amount with resulting waste. 
During my experience of keeping house in a flat for 
my husband and myself, I have tried to cook with 
economy with the help of my large cook Look, and 
I have both wasted and experimented much and have 
gradually compiled for my own use a book of proved 
recipes, many of which have been given me by friends 
who have compounded and proved them. I shall make 
no effort whatever to frame a scale of prices, because 
the cost of provisions varies so widely with cities 
and seasons that it would be impossible to attempt such 
a task with any certainty of giving real aid. I now 
publish the book believing that it will fill a long felt 
need. It has been my aim in preparing the book to 
have it contain rules for making many dainty and de- 
licious dishes not often found in cook books. I have 
also left out many things that other cook books con- 
tain, in order to keep "Just For Two" from being the 
big clumsy cook book that confuses the young house- 
keeper. 

Amelie Langdon. 



CONTENTS 



Soups 

Fish Dinner 

Fish 

Steak Dinner 

Meats and Sauces 

Chicken Dinner 

Game and Poultry 

Duck Dinner 

Vegetables 

Macaroni 

Christmas Dinner 

Eggs 

Bread, Biscuit, etc. 

Luncheon for Two 

Puddings and Sauces 

Cheese Dainties 

Nut Dainties 

Salads 

Sandwiches 

Garnishes 

Beverages 

For the Chafing Dish 

Breakfast Foods 

Pies 



i 

9 
10 

20 
21 

35 

36 

45 

46 

62 

64 

65 

70 

81 

82 

96 

99 

103 

120 

126 

128 

135 

141 

143 



viii Contents 

Thanksgiving Dinner ... ... 150 

Cakes 151 

Frozen Desserts 166 

Fruits, Jellies, Preserves 170 

Relishes 183 

Candies and Confections 186 

Invalid Cooking . . .... 192 

Things Worth Knowing 202 

Household Uses for Refined Paraffine 

Household Weights and Measures 

Time Table for Cooking 

Time Table for Baking 

Meals as Remedies 

Choosing Oranges 

Dainty Ways of Using Rose Leaves 

Wedding Anniversaries 

Birth Month Gems 
Suggestive Menus 220 



Where is the man that can live without Dining? 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 

We may live without poetry, music, and art; 

We may live without friends ; we may live without books ; 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 

He may live without books, — what is knowledge but 

grieving? 
He may live without hope, — what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love, — what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining? 

Owen Meredith. 




What shall I have for dinner? 

What shall I have for tea? 
An omelet, a chop or two, 

Or a savory fricassee? 
Dear! how I wish that Nature 

When she made her mighty plan 
Hadn't given the task to woman 

To care for hungry man. 



-Anon. 



SOUPS 



Soup will be as good the second day as the first if 
heated to the boiling point. It should never be left in 
the pot, but should be turned into a dish or shallow 
pan, and set aside to get cold. Never cover it up, as 
that will cause it to turn sour very quickly. 

Before heating a second time, remove all the fat 
from the top. If this be melted in, the flavor of the 
soup will certainly be spoiled. 

Thickened soups require nearly double the seasoning 
used for thin soups or broth. 

The meat from which soup has been made is good 
to serve cold thus: Take out all the bones, season 
with pepper and salt, and catsup, if liked, then chop it 
small, tie it in a cloth, and lay it between two plates, 
with a weight on the upper one; slice it thin for lunch- 
eon or supper; or make sandwiches of it; or make 
a hash for breakfast; or make it into balls, with the 
addition of a little wheat flour and an egg, and serve 
them fried in fat, or boil in the soup. 

An agreeable flavor is sometimes imparted to soup 
by sticking some cloves into the meat used for making 
stock; a few slices of onions fried very brown in but- 
ter are nice; also flour browned by simply putting it 
into a saucepan over the fire and stirring it constantly 
until it is a dark brown. 

Clear soups must be perfectly transparent, and thick- 
ened soups about the consistency of cream. When 
soups and gravies are kept from day to day in hot 
weather, they should be warmed up every day, and 
put into fresh-scalded pans or tureens, and placed 



2 Just for Two 

in a cool cellar. In temperate weather, every other 
day may be sufficient. 

STOCK 

Get a five cent beef bone, and boil two hours with 
plenty of water. This will make a pint of soup stock. 
Boil this stock with chopped carrots, parsnips, potatoes 
and onions, if vegetable soup is wanted, or flavor with 
strained, canned tomatoes if tomato soup is wanted, or 
use clear as bouillon. A half teaspoonful of extract 
of beef improves the color and adds richness to the 
flavor of the bouillon. 

CHICKEN BROTH 

Put into a kettle the neck, lower parts of the legs, 
and the wing tips of a large fat fowl. Dredge with 
flour, and add a pint of cold water. After letting it 
soak three-quarters of an hour, simmer slowly, keep- 
ing the kettle closely covered and let the meat drop 
from the bones. Strain and put the broth back on the 
stove, adding a cupful more of water to the bones and 
cook a good half hour longer. Add this liquor to the 
broth. (There should be a pint of the broth.) Season 
with salt and pepper, and a little minced parsley, ac- 
cording to taste. Serve with tiny squares of toasted 
bread browned in the oven. The remainder of the 
chicken can be used for fricassee. 

SHRIMP BISQUE 

Stir one heaping tablespoonful of flour with enough 
milk or cream to make a paste; put into the sauce pan 
one-half pint of milk — good measure; the yolk of one 
egg well beaten; tablespoonful of butter, salt and 
pepper to taste; add one-half cup chopped shrimps the 
last thing. Serve hot. 



Soups 3 

OYSTER SOUP 

One pint of oysters, one-half pint of milk, one heap- 
ing teaspoonful of butter, one-half teacupful of boil- 
ing water; salt and pepper. Strain all the liquor from 
the oysters; add the water and heat. When near the 
boil, add the seasoning, then the oysters. Cook about 
five minutes from the time they begin to simmer, until 
they ruffle. Stir in the butter, cook one minute, and 
pour into the tureen. Stir in boiling milk and send to 
table hot. 

CLAM SOUP 

One dozen clams chopped fine. Put over the fire the 
liquor that was drained from them, one cupful of wa- 
ter, add the clams and boil twenty-five minutes. Then 
season to taste with salt and pepper and a teaspoonful 
of butter; boil up again and pour in one pint of boil- 
ing milk. Stir in a teaspoonful of flour made to a 
cream with a little cold milk, or one cracker rolled fine. 
Serve hot in a heated tureen. 

CLAM-CELERY SOUP 

Ten clams chopped, one pint water, one pint milk, 
one tablespoonful butter, yolks of two eggs beaten, 
one-half single head of celery, chopped fine, and one 
very small onion, chopped fine, salt and pepper to taste. 
Rub butter and flour together, thickening the hot wa- 
ter with it. When cooked smooth, add celery and on- 
ion, cooking twenty minutes. If clams are fresh, add 
them, too, but if canned, only heat through. Just be- 
fore serving, add milk, which has been heating in an- 
other dish, the yolks of eggs and seasoning, not allow- 
ing to cook. 

CREAM OF CELERY 

Cut the outside stalks of a bunch of celery in small 
pieces; boil until tender, keeping covered with water; 



4 Just for Two 

when boiled tender rub through a gravy strainer; add 
one pint and one-quarter of milk, teaspoonful of but- 
ter, salt, and stir in slowly a little flour paste; let boil 
a little and serve hot. 

CREAM OF FISH SOUP 

Rid cold cooked fish (fresh), of any kind of bones, 
fat and skin, and mince fine; season to taste. For each 
cupful of this allow two cupfuls of boiling water, in 
which a sliced onion has been boiled, and set over the 
fire to cook. Heat in another saucepan a cup of milk 
(not forgetting the pinch of soda). When boiling stir 
into it a tablespoonful of butter, rubbed smooth with 
a teaspoonful of flour. Add half a cupful of bread 
dust, already soaked soft in the same quantity of cold 
milk. Beat well together over the fire with a raw egg 
whipped light, pour into a tureen, turn in upon it, 
stirring all the while, the boiling fish and water. As 
soon as it is thoroughly mixed send to the table. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

One-half pint of canned tomatoes, one-half pint of 
milk, one heaping teaspoonful of butter, quarter tea- 
spoonful of soda. Cook tomatoes a few minutes and 
then strain them, put on the stove again, adding the 
butter, salt and pepper, and a little of the soda, and 
thicken with flour until quite thick; heat the milk sep- 
arately in a double boiler until boiling hot; when time 
to serve, add the remainder of the soda to the tomatoes 
and a little minced parsley. Lastly add the boiling 
milk. Serve in heated soup bowls. 

TOMATO PUREE 

Get a bone cut from a mutton shank weighing one 
pound and a half, cover with one quart of cold water 
and leave soaking one hour, then heat gradually, boil 



Soups 5 

slowly two hours until meat and bone separate. Then 
add three tablespoonfuls of tomatoes, one teaspoonful 
of washed rice, half an onion grated, and boil until 
there is one pint of broth. Strain, skim off fat, add 
salt to taste, a tiny pinch of red pepper. Serve hot 
with toasted bread browned in the oven. 

RICE CONSOMME 

Get a shank of mutton weighing one pound and a 
half. Wipe clean with a damp cloth, cut off any dried 
outer skin, dredge with flour, pour on one quart of cold 
water, soak one or two hours, let come to a boil slowly 
and simmer for two hours, cover kettle closely. Strain 
off the liquor, pour over the bones and meat enough 
cold water to cover, cook again for an hour. Strain, 
and add to the first quantity of liquor and throw away 
the bones and meat. Salt to taste, add one small on- 
ion, one carrot and one small turnip chopped fine, 
cook until the vegetables are tender; then strain. When 
the broth is cold take off the fat cakes; there should 
be one quart of solid jelly. From this take one pint, 
and add one tablespoonful of washed rice, cook gently 
until the rice is tender, then add one teaspoonful of 
minced parsley at the last moment. 

BEAN SOUP 

One cupful of beans, one quart of water, ham bone, 
one pint of milk, one-half teaspoonful of butter. Boil 
the beans fifteen minutes. Boil with the ham bone 
three hours. Rub through a gravy strainer, add hot 
milk until it is of the proper consistency, and add 
the butter. Serve at once. 

CORN SOUP 

Half a can of cornlet, one teaspoonful of chopped 
onion, half a pint of water, one heaping tablespoonful 



6 Just for Two 

of flour, one pint of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one pinch of white pepper, yolk 
of one egg. Cook the cornlet with cold water fifteen 
minutes; cook the onion in the melted butter until a 
light brown, add flour, seasoning, and the milk gradu- 
ally, then add the cornlet. Strain and repeat. Beat 
the yolk of one egg, and put it in the soup tureen, 
pour the soup slowly over the egg, mix well, and serve 
immediately. The egg may be omitted. Corn may be 
chopped fine and used instead of cornlet. 

GREEN PEA SOUP 

Half a pint or half a can of peas, one pint of water, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, 
a pinch of salt, a pinch of white pepper, half a tea- 
spoomful of sugar, half a pint of milk or cream. Wash 
the peas and cook them in one pint of boiling water 
until soft, mash them with the water in which they 
were cooked, strain, and add the remainder of the 
liquid. Make a white sauce and cook until it is like 
thick cream. If the peas are fresh some of the pods 
may be cooked with them. 

SPLIT PEA SOUP 

Half a cupful of split peas, one and one-half quarts 
of water, one tablespoonful of chopped onion, one 
heaping tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of 
flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, 
one and one-half cupfuls of milk. Wash the peas 
and soak them over night in one pint of cold water. 
In the morning drain and rinse thoroughly, add quart 
and a half of cold water and the chopped onion. Cook 
slowly until soft, rub through a strainer. Make a 
white sauce, add this liquid to it and cook until it is 
of the proper consistency. Cooking a small ham bone 
with the peas improves the flavor. 



Soups 7 

WINTER VEGETABLE SOUP 

Scrape and slice one small turnip, and one carrot, and 
peel one small onion and fry all with a little butter 
until a light yellow; add three stalks of celery, two of 
leeks, cut into small pieces; stir and fry all for five 
minutes; when fried, add two stalks of parsley minced, 
one clove, salt and pepper and a little grated nutmeg; 
cover with three pints of boiling water, and simmer 
for one hour. Take off the scum, strain and serve. 

EGG DUMPLINGS FOR SOUP 

To half a pint of milk add two well-beaten eggs; and 
as much wheat flour as will make a smooth, rather 
thick batter free from lumps; drop this batter, a table- 
spoonful at a time, into boiling soup. 

NOODLES 

To make fresh noodles, put a cupful of flour on a 
platter. Make a hollow in the center, drop in two 
well beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of cold water, a 
pinch of salt and a half teaspoonful of soft butter. 
With the fingers gradually work the ingredients into 
a rather stiff paste, adding more flour if necessary. 
When done, it should not adhere to the hands. Divide 
into quarters and roll each lump out into a large sheet; 
let it stand for a moment or two, then roll thinner un- 
til the sheet shows signs of breaking. Spread cloths 
on the bars of the clothes horse and on these hang 
sheet of dough, leaving them for half an hour or more 
until the surface is somewhat dried. Now cut the 
sheet into long strips two inches wide, lay several 
strips on top of one another, and with a sharp knif« 
cut as fine as possible. Shake the pieces apart and 
spread out on a board to dry. As the quantity given 
is sufficient for several meals put aside enough for the 
day and let the remainder dry on the warming shelf, 



8 Just for Two 

then put away for future use. Sprinkle the quantity 
required in a kettle of rapidly boiling salted water and 
boil for fifteen minutes. Drain, return to the fire and 
stir through them two tablespoonfuls of butter, pinch 
of salt and pepper, three tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese, serve as soon as cheese is melted. 

RICE BALLS. 

Rice balls make a pretty company garnish for soup 
to be used instead of plain rice. Mash or stir down 
with a fork a cupful of cold boiled rice, and mix with 
a batter made of one whole egg beaten, a tablespoonful 
of flour, with a seasoning of salt and a pinch of cay- 
enne pepper. Stir smooth and make into balls not 
larger than a small marble. These are dropped into 
the soup just before it is sent to the table. 




Compliments of Donaldson's Tea Room, Minneapolis, 
Minn. 

Oyster Cocktail. 

Olives. Wafers. Celery. 

Planked White Fish. 

Mashed Potatoes. French Peas. 

Mint Sherbet. 

Coffee. 



FISH 

In selecting fish, choose those only in which the eye 
is full and prominent, the flesh firm and thick, the 
scales bright and stiff. Fish should be cleaned thor- 
oughly before cooking. 

COOKING IN DEEP FAT 
GENERAL RULES 

The fat used for cooking may be olive oil, cottonseed 
oil, cottolene, beef drippings, lard, or a mixture of sev- 
eral fats. 

The food must be covered with crumbs and egg, or 
a batter, to keep it from absorbing fat. 

Place the articles to be cooked in a bath of fat, deep 
enough to float them. The kettle should be of iron; 
a frying basket may be used. 

Foods already cooked or needing little cooking, re- 
quire a higher temperature than batters. The tempera- 
ture of the fat for oysters, croquettes, fish-balls, etc., 
may be tested by browning a cube of bread while 
counting forty. Counting sixty while the bread browns 
gives the right temperature for all batters. 

All the articles cooked must be drained on unglazed 
brown paper. 

When one quantity of food has been taken from 
the fat, it must be reheated and tested before adding 
a second set. 

In the absence of a frying basket, a wire spoon may 
be used to remove the food from the fat. 
Fat which has been used for frying, should be cooled 



Fish 1 1 

and clarified by cooking a few slices of raw potato in 
it for ten minutes; strain through muslin, and when 
cold cover. Fat may be used several times for frying 
and then may be made into soap. 

CLARIFIED FAT 

Remove the tough outside skin and lean parts from 
beef fat (cod fat or suet), or pork fat, and cut the fat 
into small pieces. Put it into a saucepan and cover it 
with cold water. Place it on the stove uncovered, so 
that the steam may carry off the impurities. When the 
water has nearly all evaporated set the kettle back 
and let the fat slowly try out. When the fat is still 
and the scraps of skin are shriveled at the bottom of 
the kettle, strain the fat through a cloth and set it 
away to cool. 

FISH COOKED IN FAT 

Season with salt and pepper and cover with equal 
amounts of corn meal and flour, or crumbs and egg. 
Cook in deep fat or saute. Drain on paper. 

FISH COOKED IN WATER 

Steam fish over gently boiling water, or place it in a 
piece of muslin, sew or tie the edges together and put 
the fish into boiling water, boil five minutes, then add 
one tablespoonful of salt and cook at a lower tempera- 
ture until done. Serve with a sauce. 

TO FRY FISH 

Clean the fish, wipe dry, rub a little salt inside and 
sprinkle with a little pepper after putting them in the 
pan, but never roll them in flour; it is not neces- 
sary and does not improve them. Never allow fish to 
soak in the fat. The fat should be perfectly hot when 
the fish is put in and kept at the same temperature 



12 Just for Two 

throughout the cooking. Fish may be fried in lard, 
butter or clarified dripping, but I prefer the latter, or, 
what is better, the fat obtained by frying thin slices of 
salt pork, the quantity required depending upon the 
size and number of the fish, but a generous quantity is 
desirable. If a piece of bread dropped into the fat will 
instantly brown, it will be hot enough to put the fish 
in. All small fish are better fried. 

TO BROIL MACKEREL 

Grease a broiler well; place the fish over a good fire; 
brown on both sides; place on platter and season with a 
little butter and pepper; or place the fish in a buttered 
dripping pan, skin side down, baking a nice brown; 
this may be best in the above manner and add a few 
spoonfuls of rich cream. 

BROILED FRESH MACKEREL 

Remove head and the dark skin from inside the fish, 
wash thoroughly and wipe dry. Butter the bars of the 
gridiron and broil the fish over a clear fire. When 
done, dip quickly into hot water, and serve with a 
dressing made as for broiled salt mackerel. Slit the 
fish before broiling, so that when laid flat the back- 
bone will be in the middle. 

BROILED SPANISH MACKEREL 

Open the fish down the back and remove back bone; 
dry the fish well with a towel after washing it; salt it, 
and put on a gridiron over a clear fire, turning the flesh 
side down until it is brown, then turn it over; serve 
with melted butter and sliced lemon. 

FINNAN HADDIE BROILED 

Wash well, soak half an hour in cold water; then for 
five minutes in very hot water. Wipe, rub with but- 
ter, and broil for fifteen minutes on brisk coals. 



Fish 1 3 

SALMON IN A MOULD 

One small can of salmon, two eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, one-quarter cupful of bread 
crumbs, salt and pepper, and one sprig of minced pars- 
ley. Rub the butter in the salmon, put the crumbs in 
the beaten eggs. Mix all thoroughly and add season- 
ing. Put into a buttered mould and steam one hour. 

Sauce. — One-half cupful of hot milk thickened with 
one teaspoonful of corn starch; add one heaping tea- 
spoonful of butter, liquor from the salmon, one egg, 
one tablespoonful of tomato catsup. Put the egg in 
last and very carefully. 

BAKED SALMON 

Open a can of salmon, add two well beaten eggs, one- 
half cup milk, four soda crackers broken in small pieces, 
pepper and salt. Pour into buttered granite pan and 
bake a light brown. 

TURBOT 

One pint of milk, three tablespoonfuls of butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, cooked together; season with 
salt and pepper, one teaspoonful of onion juice, and one 
sprig of minced parsley. Place in a baking dish a layer 
of shredded fish and the sauce alternately; sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and brown in a moderate oven. 

SHRED CODFISH 

Flake very fine a half pound of very white, sweet 
codfish. Wash in two waters and squeeze as tight as 
possible. Put into a saucepan with a piece of butter 
as large as an egg, and two heaping spoonfuls sifted 
flour. Mix the butter, flour and fish thoroughly to- 
gether, add very slowly two or three cupfuls boiling 
water, let come to a boil and serve. Add, if you choose, 
just before removing from the stove, an egg well beaten. 
A garnish of hard-boiled eggs is considered an im- 
provement by some. 



14 Just for Two 

GRANDMOTHER'S CODFISH BALLS 

Place a half cupful of the fish in cold water on the 
back of the stove; when the water is hot pour off, and 
add more cold water until fish is fresh enough. Then 
pick it up. Boil and mash a few potatoes, mix fish and 
potatoes together while potatoes are hot, taking two- 
thirds potatoes and one-third fish. Use plenty of but- 
ter. Make into balls and fry in plenty of hot lard. Be 
sure to have the lard hot before putting in the balls. 

FISH BALLS 

One-half cupful salt codfish, one and one-quarter 
cups of potatoes, one egg, one-half tablespoonful but- 
ter, one-eighth teaspoonful pepper. Wash the fish in 
cold water and break into small pieces; wash and pare 
the potatoes and cut in pieces. Cook the fish and po- 
tatoes together in boiling water until the potatoes are 
soft, drain and shake over the fire until dry; mash with 
a wire potato masher, add the beaten egg, butter and 
pepper, add more salt if needed and beat until light. 
Take up the mixture by spoonfuls, mould slightly, 
and slip them into the fat. Fry one minute, or until 
brown. 

FRIED FISH CHOPS 

Select chops of any good fish, such as Lake Superior 
trout, halibut, and salmon; salt and pepper; dredge with 
flour and fry in one heaping tablespoonful of the very 
best butter. Serve with chops over-lapping each other, 
on one side of a chop dish, on the other side of the 
dish putting a little heap of Swiss fried potatoes, or 
potato balls. Garnish with parsley or water cress and 
slices of lemon. 

BAKED SHAD 

Get a small shad, stuff it with bread crumbs, salt, 

pepper, butter and parsley minced, and mix well with 



Fish 1 5 

yolk of one small egg, beaten. Fill the fish with this 
dressing and sew it up or fasten a string around. Pour 
over it a little boiling water and some butter, or lay 
strips of bacon on the fish, and bake as you would a 
fowl. Garnish with parsley and lemon. 

Boil up some of the gravy in which the shad was 
baked; put in a teaspoonful of catsup, a teaspoonful of 
browned flour which has been wet with cold water, 
juice of half a lemon, and half a wineglassful of sherry 
wine. Serve in a gravy boat. 

SHAD ROE 

Place roe in salt water for a day; wipe it with a cloth 
until dry; rub over it olive oil or melted butter. Boil 
five minutes until well cooked. Cut it open; dip in 
flour and fry in hot pork fat. 

BAKED WHITE FISH 

Thoroughly clean the fish; cut off the head or not, as 
preferred. Cut out the backbone from the head to with- 
in two inches of the tail, and stuff with the following: 
Soak stale bread in water, squeeze dry; cut in pieces 
a large onion, fry in butter, chop fine. Add the bread, 
two ounces of butter, salt, pepper and a little parsley 
or sage. Heat through, and when taken off the fire, 
add the yolks of two well-beaten eggs; stuff the fish 
rather full, sew up with fine twine, and wrap with sev- 
eral coils of white tape. Rub the fish over slightly with 
butter, just cover the bottom of a baking pan with hot 
water, and place the fish in it, standing back upward, 
and bent in the form of an S. Serve with the following 
dressing: Reduce the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs 
to a smooth paste with tv/o tablespoonfuls of good salad 
oil; stir in half a teaspoonful of English mustard, and 
add pepper and vinegar to taste. 



1 6 Just for Two 

FRESH STURGEON STEAK 

Take one slice of sturgeon two inches thick, let it 
stand in hot water five minutes. Drain, put in a bowl 
and add a gill of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of black 
pepper and the juice of half a lemon. Let it stand six 
hours, turning it occasionally. Drain and dry on a 
napkin, dip in egg, roll in bread crumbs and fry, or 
rather boil, in very hot fat. Beat up the yolks of two 
raw eggs, add a teaspoonful of French mustard, and, 
by degrees, half of the marinade, to make a smooth 
sauce, which serve with the fish. 

OYSTER COCKTAILS 

To a glass, six small blue points, two teaspoonfuls 
of lemon juice, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, two tablespoonfuls of catsup, a tiny pinch of 
salt, and a pinch of sugar. Serve cold in a sherbet cup 
or cocktail glass. 

OYSTERS AND MUSHROOMS 

Parboil one-half pint of oysters, strain and save the 
liquor. Cut the oysters fine and mix with half a can 
of chopped mushrooms. Mix the oyster liquor with 
mushroom juice with cream enough to make one pint; 
thicken with one tablespoonful of butter and three 
tablespoonfuls of flour. Season with salt, cayenne, and 
lemon juice. Add the oysters and the mushrooms and 
serve on toast. 

To make icecups for oysters, fill baking powder cans 
half full of water and let them freeze. When you wish 
to use them, turn the frozen mould out on a plate, 
make a depression with a warm poker large enough to 
hold four or five oysters. 



Fish 17 

OYSTER PIES 

For each pie an individual tin pie-plate; butter and 
cover the bottom with a puff paste, as for pies. Lay on 
it six select oysters, or enough to cover the bottom; 
drop in bits of butter and season with a pinch of salt 
and plenty of pepper; spread over this an egg batter 
and cover with a crust of the paste, making small open- 
ings in it with a fork. Bake in a hot oven until the 
top is nicely browned. 

OYSTERS STEAMED 

Wash and drain half a pint of counts; put them in 
a shallow pan and place in a steamer over boiling wa- 
ter. Steam until they are plump with the edges ruf- 
fled. Place in a heated dish, season with butter, salt 
and pepper and serve. 

CREAMED OYSTERS 

From one pint of oysters drain the liquor; boil and 
skim, and thicken with one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour, and half a tablespoonful of butter, rubbed smooth; 
put one-half pint of cream in a double boiler, and when 
hot, add the thickened liquor, season with salt, pepper, 
and a dash of nutmeg. Have ready the yolks of two 
eggs well beaten; add half a cupful of cream; now add 
the oysters to the cooking mixture, and lastly the eggs 
and cream; stirring constantly, cook three minutes. 
Serve in pastry shells. Use the whites of the two eggs 
for frosting on a dessert, or coffee. 

GRANDMOTHER'S SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

A layer of rolled crackers in the bottom of a well- 
buttered pudding dish, and a layer of oysters drained; 
season with salt, and pepper and bits of butter. Con- 
tinue this way until the dish is full. Then pour over 
one large cupful of milk. Bake three-quarters of an 
hour. 



1 8 Just for Two 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS 

Roll each nice plump oyster in a very thin slice of 
bacon; pin with a toothpick; fry until bacon is brown; 
serve on very hot dish. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Select large oysters, wash and wipe them, remove 
pieces of shell, season with salt and pepper, roll in fine 
bread crumbs which have been dried, sifted, and sea- 
soned, dip in beaten egg and again in crumbs. The egg 
should have one tablespoonful of water or oyster juice 
added to it. Fry one minute, drain, garnish and serve. 

ROAST OYSTERS ON TOAST 

Cut slices of bread round with sharp cookie cutter, 
toast lightly and butter. Wash and wipe some fine 
large oysters, spread as many as possible on each 
slice of toast, season with salt, pepper and plenty of 
bits of butter; put in hot oven till edges of the oysters 
curl; serve at once. 

SAUCE FOR BROILED FISH 

Put a heaping tablespoonful of butter into a half 
cupful of cream, keep it hot, stir often, and when the 
fish is dished, turn the sauce over the fish and serve. 

SAUCE TO SERVE WITH BAKED FISH 

Put into a double boiler one teaspoonful of butter. 
Beat into it the yolk of one egg, a pinch of salt and 
cayenne pepper, two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, 
and one teaspoonful of cider vinegar. Cook and stir 
until it is a little thick and add three drops of lemon 
juice. Keep very hot and closely covered. Serve a 
small portion with each plate of fish. 



Fish 19 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

(Good' with Boiled Fish.) 

Beat one-half teacupful of butter to a cream; add the 
yolks of two eggs, juice of half a lemon, salt and a 
very little cayenne pepper. Put into vessel or a sauce- 
pan boiling water. Beat with an egg beater until it 
begins to thicken, then add a half cup of boiling water, 
heating continually. When of consistency of thick cus- 
tard it is done. It will require five or seven minutes 
to cook, if water boils hard. 

SAUCE TO SERVE WITH RAW OYSTERS 

One-half teaspoonful of pepper and one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, half of one onion grated, one dessert- 
spoonful of Farragon vinegar, one tablespoonful of 
olive oil, one^-half teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 
juice of half a lemon. 

EGG SAUCE 

One cup cream sauce or drawn butter, three hard 
boiled eggs; chop whites fine and add to sauce; grate 
yolks over sauce, or the yolks may be chopped by them- 
selves, or rubbed through a sieve. 

STUFFING FOR FISH 

Two cupfuls of bread crumbs, one-half teaspoonful 
of salt, one-eighth teaspoonful of white pepper, cay- 
enne, one teaspoonful onion juice, one teaspoonful 
chopped parsley, one teaspoonful capers or chopped 
pickle, one-fourth cupful melted butter. Mix in the 
order given. 



Steak Dinner 

Broiled Porterhouse Steak. 

Mashed Potatoes. Mushrooms. 

Gravy. Bread and Butter. 

Coffee. 

Tomato Salad. 

Wafers. 

Banana Ice Cream. 

Cake. 



MEATS AND SAUCES 



In the selection of meat one should make it a point 
to understand how to buy meat. Beef should be smooth, 
fine grained, and a clear bright red, and should feel 
tender when pinched. The best pieces for roasting 
are the middle ribs and sirloin. 

Veal should be firm and dry, fine grained and a pale 
pink color. 

Pork should be young and break on being pinched. 
If the rind is tough and hard it is old. 

In roasting meat allow fifteen minutes to the pound, 
and above all things have the oven hot before putting 
roast in. 

It is a difficult matter to get roasts small enough for 
two people. An ordinary roast lasts quite too long to be 
enjoyable even though it can be used in various ways; 
as sliced cold meat; cut up in squares and warmed 
in the gravy and called "fricassee"; meat pie, cro- 
quettes, hash or hash on toast. 

ROAST BEEF 

Get a rib piece or loin roast of four or five pounds, 
wipe it clean with a clean wet towel, baste it well with 
suet fat and sprinkle with flour; lay it in pan, set in 
oven, baste often with its own drippings; when partly 
done sprinkle with salt and pepper; let it roast an 
hour and a quarter in a hot oven. Be sure that your 
oven is good and hot when you set the roast in. When 
done remove the roast to a heated dish, set in warm 
place; skim all fat from the drippings with a spoon 
or brown paper; add two teaspoonfuls of sifted flour, 



22 Just for Two 

pepper and salt, and a half teacup of boiling water; 
boil up once and serve in gravy boat. 

POT ROAST OF BEEF 

Get a small pot roast from the rump and brown in 
an iron kettle before pouring water in and cooking. 
Boil very slowly till quite tender. Do not salt it till 
it is nearly done. 

ROUND STEAK FRENCH ROASTED 

Get two pounds of choice round steak cut thick. Cut 
it into pieces about five inches square, put into an iron 
kettle and brown, being careful not to scorch it. Then 
pour in a little water and an onion cut in small pieces 
and let all stew slowly, renewing water when it boils 
away, until it is tender enough to cut with a fork. 
Brown flour by scorching it in a tin plate on top of 
the stove and mix with a little cold water till free from 
lumps and use to thicken the gravy. 

MOCK DUCK 

Cut a thick slice of round steak, remove fatty rim 
and bone, rub the steak well on both sides with flour 
mixed with salt and pepper, prepare a bread dressing 
as for turkey stuffing, cover the steak with a thick 
layer of dressing; roll up, tie with string; boil slowly 
an hour and a half in a tightly covered kettle, with 
just enough water so the meat will roast down, the 
last twenty minutes; remove the meat and take off 
string carefully; add butter size of small egg to gravy; 
thicken and pour over meat; this can be baked, but 
is dryer if so cooked. 

BEEF TENDERLOIN BROILED 

Get one beef tenderloin. Wash and dry with a clean 
towel. Rub lightly with salt and pepper and broil very 



Meats and Sauces 23 

tender. A little before the meat is done, lay on each 
tenderloin two thin slices of bacon; broil to a nice 
brown. Serve on a heated platter garnished with let- 
tuce or parsley. 

BEEF TENDERLOIN BAKED 

Wash well one tenderloin, lay in a dripping pan; add 
one pint of water. Chop up one-half cupful of each of 
the following vegetables into small dice squares: po- 
tatoes, turnips, carrots, and half a bunch of celery. 
Wash and add to the meat and let the whole simmer 
half an hour. When nearly done, add one-half tea- 
spoonful of pounded allspice and one tablespoonful of 
butter. When done, lay the meat on a heated platter, 
pour over the sauce and serve. 

PORTERHOUSE STEAK 

Get a pound and a half of porterhouse three-quarters 
of an inch in thickness, lay on four thin slices of 
bacon. Put into the broiler to broil. When done 
season with salt and pepper, if served without the 
mushroom sauce. Remove steak to a heated platter, 
salt and pepper on both sides and spread a liberal lump 
of butter over it. Serve at once. 

BROILED PORTERHOUSE STEAK WITH 
MUSHROOM SAUCE 

Take one-half can of mushrooms, drain off every drop 
of liquor; then put them in a sauce pan with one cup 
of sweet cream and one tablespoonful of butter, salt 
and pepper to taste. Let them simmer gently for ten 
minutes, and when the steak is ready to be served pour 
the mushrooms over it. 

HOT TONGUE WITH TARTARE SAUCE 

Note — This meat is nice for company dinner, as it 
requires no special attention at the last moment. 



24 Just for Two 

Simmer a pickled beefs tongue five and one-half 
hours, changing the water once. One-half hour before 
serving, take the tongue out and peel it Return to 
the hot liquid until ready to serve. 

Sauce Tartare. — Add capers or cucumber pickles and 
olives, chopped, to salad dressing No. I. Add no cream. 

BREADED TONGUE 

Slice the cold cooked tongue thin, dip in beaten 
egg, then in bread crumbs and fry brown. Make a 
tomato sauce according to directions given elsewnere. 
Pour the sauce into a deep platter, lay the slices of 
fried tongue upon it, garnish with parsley and serve 
at once. 

BEEF STEW 

Half a pound of beef from leg, half an onion cut in 
slices, six tablespoonfuls of carrots cut in dice, a 
quarter of a cup of turnips cut in dice, two potatoes 
cut in one-half inch slices, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
a pinch of pepper, a quarter of a cup of flour, and one 
quart of water. Remove fat and cut the meat into 
one-inch pieces; put aside one-half cupful of the best 
pieces of meat. Put the rest of the meat and the bone 
into cold water and soak for one hour, then heat 
until it bubbles. Season the one-half cup of meat and 
roll it in flour. Melt the fat in a frying-pan, re- 
move the scraps. Brown the sliced onion and then 
the floured meat in the hot fat, add both to the stew 
and cook for one hour and a half at a low tempera- 
ture. Add the vegetables and the flour, which has 
been mixed with half a cupful of cold water, and cook 
for one hour, or until the meat and vegetables are 
tender. Remove the bone, season and serve. 

POT ROAST 

Get a three pound pot roast. Trim the meat care- 
fully. Put one tablespoonful of lard into the kettle 



Meats and Sauces 25 

and when boiling hot, put in the meat. Brown on all 
sides, then cover the meat with boiling water. Boil 
rapidly, skimming when necessary. Half an hour be- 
fore the meat is done, cut a medium sized onion into 
slices and add it to the water in which the meat is 
boiling, together with a bay leaf, four cloves, six 
pepper corns, a half stick of celery, and a half inch 
of stick cinnamon. Place the meat in a deep platter 
when it is done, and spread it thinly with grated horse- 
radish. Strain the liquor remaining in the kettle and 
make a brown sauce to pour over the meat. Dump- 
lings are very nice served with a pot roast. 

HAMBURGER STEAK 

Take half a pound of round steak without any fat 
or bones or stringy pieces; mince it very fine. Mince 
one small onion and mix well with the meat. Season 
with salt and pepper, and make into cakes the size of 
a biscuit and quite flat. Have ready a frying pan with 
a teaspoonful of lard and one tablespoonful of butter 
and let it get boiling hot, then put in the steak and fry 
a nice brown on both sides. Garnish with parsley 
around the edge of the platter and slices of lemon on 
top of the meat. 

DRIED BEEF A LA CREME 

Make a cream sauce and add to it the dried beef, 
cut fine. Season with pepper but not salt. When hot, 
add a well-beaten egg, stir till it thickens and serve 
at once on toast. A very nice breakfast dish. 

BEEF A LA BARCELONA 

Cut a pound of tender beef into small bits. Fry in 
butter, with a minced onion, a little celery or celery 
seed, some chopped parsley and a pinch of thyme. When 
brown, add enough stock to cover, using beef extract 



26 Just for Two 

and water if the stock is not at hand. Simmer slowly 
till the meat is cooked through, then add a spoonful 
of white wine. Make a mound of boiled rice in the 
center of the platter, arrange the meat around it, strain 
the sauce, thicken, and pour over it. 

CORNED BEEF HASH 

Cut cold, cooked, corned beef very fine, and mix with 
twice the bulk of mashed potato. Add a shredded 
green pepper to every quart, season with salt and 
pepper. Serve on buttered toast with poached egg on 
each portion and serve very hot. 

COTTAGE PIE 

Mince two cupfuls of cold meat (any kind will an- 
swer), add to it one minced onion, one teaspoonful 
powdered sage and salt and pepper to taste. Turn all 
into a pie dish, add a little hot water and cover 
with a deep layer of mashed potatoes beaten light, 
with cream and seasoning added. A little sweet 
cream added to the meat is an improvement. Spread 
a little soft butter over the potatoes, and bake half 
an hour. 

GERMAN MOCK RABBIT 

Mix a pound of raw chopped beef with an equal quan- 
tity of raw chopped veal. Season with salt, pepper, 
nutmeg, onion, thyme and chopped parsley. Add a cup- 
ful of dry bread crumbs and bind with four raw eggs, 
unbeaten. Shape into a loaf, cover with egg and 
crumbs, put into a baking pan lined with slices of 
fat salt pork, and baste frequently. Serve in slices, 
either hot or cold. 

TRIPE LYONNAISE 

Cut up half a pound of cold boiled tripe into squares. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and one tablespoonful 



Meats and Sauces 27 

of chopped onion in a frying pan and fry brown; add 
to this a tablespoonful of strong vinegar, salt and cay- 
enne. Stir to prevent burning. Cover the bottom of a 
heated platter with tomato sauce, add the contents and 
serve hot. 

LIVER A LA CREME 

Wash half a pound of calf's liver and boil until 
very tender in salted water. Drain and chop fine. 
Make a cream sauce, add the chopped liver, bring to a 
boil and pour over buttered toast arranged in trian- 
gles on a hot platter. Fry thin slices of bacon and 
place a slice on top of each piece of toast. 

LIVER PATTIES 

Take one-half pound of calf liver, steamed or boiled 
and chopped fine, season with salt, pepper, catsup and 
Worcestershire sauce to taste, adding a little thick 
brown sauce. Serve in hot patty shells. 

ROAST VEAL 

A small roast of veal from the loin is choicest, but 
a shoulder roast with a pocket for stuffing is also good. 
A two-pound roast can be bought but from three to 
three and a half pounds is the best size. Bake till 
tender, basting when necessary. 

ROAST LAMB 

A leg of lamb is too large for a small family unless 
it is real milk lamb, when it should be carefully roasted 
as it cooks quickly. Get a two-pound piece of the 
shoulder of a young lamb and ask the butcher to fix 
a pocket for stuffing. This is a very delicious roast. 

STUFFED ROAST VEAL 

Get a pound and a half of veal cutlets, cut the edges 
to prevent curling. Pepper lightly and sprinkle over 



28 Just for Two 

it a quarter of a teaspoonful of thyme. Dredge with 
flour, put a bread and butter stuffing on one-half, fold 
the other half over it, lay the veal on a thin slice of 
fresh fat pork, on a deep earthen dish, cover lightly, 
bake in a moderate oven two hours. Remove the veal 
to another dish. Sprinkle with salt and browned bread 
crumbs, return to the oven for five minutes. Add one 
tablespoonful of flour and half a cupful of boiling wa- 
ter to the sediment in the baking dish, salt and pepper 
to taste, boil up and pour around the veal. 

CROWN ROAST OF MUTTON 

No one but a first-class butcher can put up such a 
roast as this, let the roast weigh about three and one- 
half pounds or four. This roast is made from a full 
loin, the bone split between the chops and the ribs 
trimmed as for French chops and cut of uniform length 
and the whole then rolled in circular form. Wrap the 
ends of the ribs with strips of cloth and roast till well 
done. Fill the center with French peas. Serve on a 
hot platter, garnished with parsley. 

LAMB CHOPS 

Wipe three or four lamb chops with a wet cloth; re- 
move the skin and extra fat; have a frying pan hissing 
hot without any fat; put in the chops and cook two 
minutes, turn, and sear the other side; cook more 
slowly until done, stand them up on the fat edge to 
brown the fat, without over-cooking the meat. When 
nearly done, sprinkle a little salt on each side. Drain 
on paper, and serve hot, with tomato sauce if desired. 
Mutton chops are cooked the same way. 

VEAL BIRDS 

Slice off the veal from the loin, cut very thin. Wipe, 
remove the bones, skin, and fat, and pound until one- 
fourth of an inch thick. Trim into pieces two and a 



Meats and Sauces 29 

half by four inches. Chop the trimmings fine with one 
square inch of fat salt pork for each bird. Add half 
as much fine cracker crumbs as you have meat; season 
highly with salt, pepper, thyme, lemon, cayenne, and 
onion. Moisten with one egg and a little hot water, 
spread the mixture on each slice nearly to the edge, 
roll up lightly, and tie or fasten with skewers. Dust 
with salt, pepper and flour; fry them slowly in hot but- 
ter till a golden brown, but not dark or burned. Then 
half cover with cream and simmer fifteen minutes or 
till tender. Remove the strings, and serve on toast. 
Pour the cream over them, garnish with points of 
toast and lemon. 

VEAL CROQUETTES 

Chop up fine, enough veal to fill one cupful; season 
highly with salt, pepper, cayenne, onion juice, celery 
salt and parsley. Moisten with one beaten egg and 
white sauce and shape into molds, roll in fine bread 
crumbs, egg and crumbs again and fry in hot fat. 

VEAL LOAF SPICED 

Chop two pounds of veal and a quarter of a pound of 
fat pork as fine as sausage meat; add to it two large 
soda crackers rolled very fine, two well-beaten eggs, 
quarter of a teacup of tomato catsup, quarter of a tea- 
spoonful of table salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, 
half a teaspoonful of grated lemon rind; taste before 
molding to be sure it is rightly seasoned. Mold into a 
loaf; put in a bread pan, cover with one cracker rolled 
fine and baste once in twenty minutes with one-half 
cupful of boiling water to which add half a tablespoon- 
ful of the best table butter. Serve on a long platter 
garnished with parsley and slices of lemon. 

MINCED MUTTON AND EGGS' 

Chop remnants of cold mutton, season well and add 
a good cupful of warmed gravy. Strew crumbs on 



30 Just for Two 

the bottom of a buttered baking dish, pour in the mut- 
ton and cover with crumbs, and bake till bubbling hot; 
then break eggs enough over the top to cover the mince 
well, scatter bits of butter on the eggs, salt, pepper, and 
sift cracker crumbs over the top, and bake till the 
eggs are set. 

ROAST PORK 

The loin or chine, also the spareribs, are the best 
pieces for roasting. Rub surface well with salt, sprinkle 
lightly with sage and pepper, dredge with flour, and 
bake in a hot oven for the first twenty minutes, or 
until delicately browned, after which reduce the heat, 
allowing twenty minutes to each pound of meat. Baste 
often. Roast pork should be thoroughly cooked, not 
at so high a temperature as other meats, and is con- 
sidered more wholesome when served cold. Serve with 
onion sauce, when served hot, and with baked, fried 
or stewed apples. 

ROAST SPARE RIB 

Select carefully the loin and ribs of a "beastie" both 
fresh and young. Plunge it into scalding water, dry 
thoroughly and rub with a mixture made from salt, pep- 
per, sage, minced parsley and onion juice. Bake in a 
hot oven, twenty minutes to the pound, basting fre- 
quently with a quantity of cider in the pan. It should 
be roasted the day before, as it is much more whole- 
some when cold and is intended as a relish to turkey. 

ROAST SPARE RIB WITH DRESSING 

Have loin of pork cut with long ribs; season and put 
to roast; half an hour before it is done turn so the ribs 
will hold the dressing made as for turkey stuffing; fill 
with the dressing and finish baking; serve with apple 
sauce. 



Meats and Sauces 31 

PORK TENDERLOIN 

Two tenderloins are enough for the family of two. 
Tenderloin should be cut in pieces of uniform size, and 
one-quarter of a pound of fresh fat pork should be al- 
lowed for each one. Cover and fry rapidly for a min- 
ute in a spider smoking hot, turn and fry the other 
side, turn burner down very low and cook slowly 
ten minutes. Always cook pork slowly and thoroughly. 
When cooked, put one level teaspoonful of salt, dust- 
ing of pepper, stir the grease and brown sediment well 
into the flour, cook a few minutes, add half a cupful 
of rich milk; stir till a smooth creamy gravy, pour 
over the tenderloins, sprinkle over all one tablespoonful 
of minced parsley. 

SAUSAGE WITH APPLE GARNISH 
Always buy the best sausages, as pork which is not 
of the best quality is not desirable or healthful. Two 
grades of seasoning are sometimes offered at the same 
price, one mild and the other highly spiced. Try bak- 
ing instead of frying sausage and you will never go 
back to the top of the stove method. Arrange the 
sausages on a baking sheet, pierce each a half dozen 
times with a steel fork and set in the oven; turn once 
to brown and when they are done they will be cooked 
evenly and unbroken. While any kind of pork should 
be well done, it should not be cooked until dry as a 
chip, as it is sometimes served. Pile the sausages on 
a platter in log cabin style and garnish with apples 
which have been cut in round slices, cored and pared 
and cooked in a weak syrup until tender but not brok- 
en. The sausage needs the acid of the apple to coun- 
teract its own richness in fat and spices, and if more 
convenient, serve stewed apple with it. Do not 
choke the sausage in a frying pan and then turn the 
apple in to absorb the grease as it cooks, unless the 
family have digestions of wood choppers in midwin- 
ter. 



32 Just for Two 

PORK AND BEANS 

Pick over and wash carefully two cupiuls of beans, 
and let them soak in water all night. Wash and drain 
in another water, boil in cold water twenty minutes; 
stir in a half teaspoonful of baking soda and skim 
off the froth. Drain and pour beans in an earthen 
covered pot. Put in the center of the beans a quar- 
ter of pound of salt pork; score the rind in slices. 
Mix one pint of boiling water with half a teaspoonful 
of salt, one pinch of cayenne pepper, one tablespoonful 
of molasses. Pour this over the beans, set in a mod- 
erate oven, and bake for four hours, keeping the pot 
well covered. About an hour before the beans are 
done, remove the cover to brown the top and crisp 
the pork. When done, if beans are just right, the 
juice will show itself when the pot is tilted half way 
up. Serve in a deep dish, the pork on top,- garnished 
with a few sprigs of parsley. 

THE PROPER RELISHES TO ACCOMPANY 

MEATS 

Roast Beef Grated Horseradish 

Roast Mutton Currant Jelly 

Roast Lamb Mint Sauce 

Roast Pork Apple Sauce 

Boiled Mutton Caper Sauce 

Boiled Chicken , Bread or Egg Sauce 

Roast Turkey Cranberry Sauce 

Boiled Turkey Oyster Sauce 

Venison, Wild Duck or Game Currant -Jelly Sauce 

Boiled Fish Drawn Butter or Caper Sauce 

Broiled or Baked Fish Fish or Cream Sauce 

Roast Goose Apple Sauce 



Meats and Sauces 33 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel Stewed Gooseberries 

Broiled Shad Boiled Rice and Salad 

Fresh Salmon Green Peas and Cream Sauce 

Beefsteaks or Warmed-over Meats Brown Sauce 

Broiled Steaks and Chops Tomato Sauce 

Small Roast Birds Bread Sauce 

Veal Cutlets and Fillets, Etc Mushroom Sauce 

Poultry and Boiled Fish Oyster Sauce 

Salt Fish Maitre d'Hotel Sauce 

MINT SAUCE 

Pour over a teaspoonful of chopped green mint half 
a cupful of boiling water. Add to this two table- 
spoonful of butter, half a pint of cream, one saltspoon 
of vinegar; boil up once more. Put in a cool place 
before serving. 

CAPER SAUCE 

Half a cupful of drawn butter, half a tablespoonful of 
chopped capers, one teaspoonful of juice from the bot- 
tled capers; let it just simmer and serve. 

NASTURTIUM SAUCE 

Make sauce as caper sauce, using green nasturtium 
seeds instead of capers, and chop very much finer than 
capers. 

BREAD SAUCE FOR CHICKEN 

One pint of hot milk, one onion, one tablespoonful 
of butter, one cupful of finely grated bread crumbs. 
Press cloves into the onion; add the hot milk and let it 
simmer for half an hour. Then add the butter and 
bread crumbs, stir until thickened. When ready to 
serve, take out the onion and cloves. 



34 Just for Two 

EGG SAUCE 
Boil three eggs very hard; when taken up, put them 
into cold water. Shell and chop the eggs rather fine, 
throw them into melted or drawn butter, beat well and 
serve. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE 

One tablespoonful of butter, half a small onion chop- 
ped fine, half a tablespoonful of flour, one celery leaf, 
half a cup of stock, two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly; 
fry onion light brown in the butter; stir in the flour, 
browning slightly; add celery leaf and then the stock; 
simmer twenty minutes; strain, reheat and add jelly and 
stir until dissolved; then serve. 

CREAM SAUCE 
One large tablespoonful of butter, one rounded table- 
spoonful of flour, one level teaspoonful of salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of white pepper. Stir these together 
and pour over the mixture one-half pint of hot milk. 
Cook just long enough thoroughly to mix the ingredi- 
ents, — two or three minutes. 

TOMATO SAUCE 
Put into a saucepan one-half pint of stewed tomatoes, 
one-half of a small onion, half a bay leaf, and half 
a blade of mace, a pinch of minced parsley; simmer 
slowly for fifteen minutes. Melt one-half tablespoon- 
ful of butter, add to it two teaspoonfuls of flour, mix 
until very smooth. Press the tomatoes through a sieve, 
add them to the butter and flour, and stir until it 
boils. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 

SAUCE FOR BOILED MEATS 
Chop fine half of one onion and a small quantity 
of mixed pickles. Put these in a small stewpan with 
half a cup of vinegar, one teaspoonful of bread crumbs, 
a pinch of salt and pepper. Boil all together five 
minutes, then add one gill of water and boil ten min- 
utes more. 




Cream of Tomato Soup. 

Bread Sticks. Celery. Olives. 

Smothered Chicken. 

Baked Potatoes. Creamed Parsnips. 

Rolls. 

Cucumber Salad. 

Wafers. 

Salted Almonds. 

Coffee. 



GAME AND POULTRY 



ROAST CHICKEN 

Have a bright, clear and steady fire for roasting. 
Prepare your chicken. Make a dressing of bread 
crumbs, onion chopped fine, butter, pepper and salt, 
and one-half cup of raisins, if liked. Put a pint of hot 
water in the dripping-pan, add to it a small table- 
spoonful of salt and a small teaspoonful of pepper. 
Baste frequently and let it roast quickly without 
scorching. When nearly done add a piece of butter 
the size of a large egg to the water in the pan; when 
it melts baste with it,_dredge with flour, baste again 
and let it finish. From three-quarters to one hour will 
roast if the fire is right. When done take it up, let the 
giblets (heart, liver and gizzard) boil tender and chop 
fine. Put them in the gravy. Add a tablespoonful of 
browned flour and a bit of butter. Stir it over the fire 
for a few minutes, then serve in a gravy tureen. 

FRIED SPRING CHICKEN 

Clean and joint the chicken, then soak in salt water 
for an hour. Have a frying pan ready with equal 
parts of lard and butter enough to cover the chicken. 
Roll each piece of chicken in flour, dip in beaten egg, 
drop into boiling hot fat. Fry ttntil brown on both 
sides. Serve on heated platter, garnished with parsley. 
Pour most of the fat from the pan, and thicken the 
remainder with browned flour, and add one cupful 
of hot milk. Serve in gravy boat. 



Game and Poultry 37 

STEAMED CHICKEN 

Rub the chicken, after being thoroughly washed and 
cleaned, with pepper and a teaspoonful of salt, wrap 
the chicken in a clean white cloth, place in a steamer 
as near the water as possible, cover, and steam two 
hours. Serve with a cream sauce or gravy. Boil two 
v cupfuls of the liquor from the kettle without the fat, 
add a pinch of cayenne pepper and two pinches of 
salt. Stir two tablespoonfuls of flour into one cupful 
of sweet cream until smooth, then mix with the gravy. 
Add one pinch of nutmeg, with one teaspoonful of 
lemon juice. Garnish with celery and thin slices of 
lemon. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN 

Select a fine Philadelphia dry picked, young roast- 
ing chicken, weighing about four pounds; singe it and 
cut off the head and feet, then split it down the back 
as if for broiling. Clean it, reserving the heart, liver 
and the gizzard. Put some butter in a deep pan and 
melt it so the bottom is well covered, then lay in the 
chicken skin side up. Cover it well with little pats 
of butter, season it well with salt and pepper, pour 
in a half pint of boiling water, cover the pan tight 
and stand it in a moderate oven. Let the chicken 
cook one hour, then lift the cover and pour in a half 
pint of cream. Cover it again and let it cook another 
hour, then serve. 

CHICKEN STEW WITH DUMPLINGS 

Cut up the chicken and wash in salt water, put in 
a stew pan with one cupful of boiling water and a 
small piece of salt. Stew slowly. If a young fowl, it 
will only take an hour to cook. About fifteen min- 
utes before serving add salt and a little water to the 
stew, let come to a good boil, then drop in the dump- 
lings made of biscuit dough. Cover tightly, watch that 



38 Just for Two 

the gravy does not burn. Serve the chicken on a 
heated platter with the dumplings around it and the 
gravy poured over the chicken. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

A half cupful of minced chicken, add salt and pepper 
to taste, and enough gravy thickened with flour to 
mould into egg-shaped rolls. Sprinkle well with bread 
crumbs, and brown in a heaping teaspoonful of hot 
butter in an uncovered dish. When a nice brown, re- 
move croquettes to a hot dish. Add to the butter left 
in the pan one teaspoonful of soaked bread crumbs 
and four tablespoonfuls of heated milk, boil until thick 
enough to spread evenly, add the seasoning you like. 
Serve with a sprig of celery on each croquette, and 
serve at once. 

CHICKEN LOAF 

Get a four or five-pound chicken trussed as f©r 
roasting, but not stuffed. Cook in as little water as 
possible until the meat drops from the bones; then 
remove the skin, fat, gristle and bones, and put all 
back into the kettle. Add plenty of butter and salt, 
pepper and celery salt to taste, and a teaspoonful of 
vinegar or lemon juice. Heat thoroughly. Slice one 
hard boiled egg into bottom of a plain oblong mold 
and pour in the hot chicken. Be careful not to have 
too much liquor or the meat will not remain at the 
bottom of the mold. Set away to cool. When cool 
and hardened, serve on a platter garnished with let- 
tuce and olives. 

ROAST TURKEY WITH OYSTER DRESSING 

Dress and rub the turkey thoroughly both inside and 
out with salt and pepper; steam two hours, or until 
it begins to grow tender, lifting the cover occasionally 
and sprinkling with salt. Then take out, loosen the 



Game and Poultry 39 

legs, and rub the inside again with salt and pepper and 
stuff with a dressing prepared as follows: Take a 
loaf of stale bread, cut off the crust and soften by plac- 
ing in a pan, pouring on boiling water, draining off 
immediately and covering closely; crumble the bread 
fine, add half a pound of melted butter, or more if to ' 
be very rich, and a teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, or enough to season rather highly; drain 
off liquid from a quart of oysters, bring to a boil, skim 
and pour over the bread crumbs, adding the soaked 
crusts and one or two eggs. Mix all thoroughly with 
the hand, and if rather dry moisten with a little sweet 
milk; lastly, add the oysters, being careful not to break 
them; or first put in a spoonful of stuffing, and then 
three or four oysters and so on, until the turkey is 
filled; stuff the breast first. Flour a cloth and place 
over the openings, tying it down with a twine; spread 
the turkey over with butter, salt and pepper. Place 
in a dripping-pan in a well-heated oven, add half a 
pint of hot butter, and roast two hours, basting often 
with a little water, butter, salt and pepper, kept in a tin 
for this purpose and placed on the back of the stove. A 
swab made of a stick with a cloth tied on the end is 
better than a spoon to baste with. Turn until nicely 
browned on all sides, and about half an hour before it 
is done baste with butter and dredge with a little flour. 
This will give it a frothy appearance. When you dish 
the turkey, if there is much fat in the pan, pour off 
most of it and add the chopped giblets previously 
cooked until tender,. and the water in which they were 
cooked; now stew down to about one pint; place one 
or two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour (it is better to 
have half of it browned) in a pint bowl, mix smooth 
with a little cream, fill up bowl with cream or rich 
milk, and add to the gravy in the pan. Boil several 
minutes, stirring constantly, and pour into the gravy 
tureen. Serve with currant or apple jelly. A turkey 
steamed in this way, does not look so well on the table, 



40 Just for Two 

but is very tender and palatable. It is an excellent 
way to cook a large turkey. 

HOW TO CARVE A TURKEY 

After having relieved the turkey from the strings 
and skewers in trussing, the turkey should be placed 
on a hot platter and set on the table with the neck 
at the right hand of the carver. First of all before 
carving insert the fork firmly in across the breast 
bone. Cut through the skin around the leg joint, bend 
the leg over and cut off at the joint. Then cut off the 
wings, and divide wings and legs at the joints. Carve 
the breast in thin slices parallel with the breast bone. 
Take off the wish bone; separate the collar bone from 
the breast; slip the knife under the shoulder blade, 
and turn it over, ,cut through the cartilage which di- 
vides the ribs, separating the breast from the back, 
then turn the back over, place the knife midway, and 
with the fork lift up .the tail end separating the back 
from the body, place the fork in the middle of the 
back bone, and cut close to the back bone from one 
end to the other, freeing the side bone. As soon as 
the legs and wings are disjointed begin to serve, of- 
fering dark and white meat and stuffing as each person 
prefers. Do not remove the fork from the breast 
bone till the breast is separated from the back. Use 
an extra fork in serving. Carve only from 

one side of the turkey if all the fowl is not required, 
leaving the opposite side whole for another meal. 
Consult the tastes of the guests as to which part they 
prefer, if no choice is expressed serve a portion of 
both light and dark meat. The most delicate part of 
the turkey are two little muscles, lying in small disn- 
like cavities on each side of the back, just a little behind 
the leg attachments; the next most delicate meat fills 
the cavities in the neck bone, and next to this, that 
on the second joints. The lower part of the leg or 



Game and Poultry 41 

drumstick as it is called is stringy, tough and hard 
and should not be served but allowed to remain on 
the dish. 

BONED TURKEY 

With a sharp knife slit the skin down the back, and, 
raising one side at a time with the fingers, separate 
the flesh from the bones with a knife until the wings and 
legs are reached. Then unjoint from the body, cutting 
through to the bone, turn back the flesh and remove the 
bones. When the bones are removed the flesh may be 
reshaped by stuffing. Some leave the bones in the legs 
and wings, as they are the most difficult to remove. 
Stuff with force meat made of cold lamb or veal and 
a little pork chopped fine and seasoned with salt, pep- 
per, sage or savory, and the juice of one lemon. Sew 
into shape, turn ends of wings under and press the 
legs close to the back, and tie firmly so that the upper 
surface may be plump and smooth for the carver. Lard 
with two or three rows on the top, and bake until 
thoroughly done, basting often with salt and water and 
a little butter. Carve across in slices and serve with 
tomato sauce or meat jelly for boned turkey. 

MEAT JELLY FOR BONED TURKEY 

Take oil from the water (when cold) in which the 
turkey was boiled, strain into a porcelain kettle, add 
two ounces of gelatine, three eggs with shells, a wine- 
glassful of sherry or Maderia; stir well. Add one quart 
of strained liquor, beat rapidly with an egg beater, 
put over the fire and stir till it boils; simmer ten or 
fifteen minutes, sprinkle with a pinch of tumeric and 
strain as other jelly. Add lemon juice to taste. When 
cold break up and place over and around turkey. Cut 
in thick slices and fanciful shapes with paste cut- 
ter. 



42 Just for Two 

ROAST DUCK 

Wash and dry the duck carefully. Make a stuffing 
of bread, onion, pepper, salt and butter; insert, and 
sew up completely that the seasoning may not es- 
cape. If tender, ducks do not require more than 
an hour to roast; keep them well basted, and a few 
minutes before serving dredge lightly with flour to 
make them froth and look plump. Send to the table 
hot, with a good brown gravy poured, not around, 
but over them. Accompany with currant jelly and, 
if in season, green peas. 

WILD DUCK 

Make a dressing of veal, mushrooms and bread chop- 
ped fine; soak the bread in cold water for a little time 
and mix with mushrooms and veal; season with pep- 
per and salt and a little garlic to suit the taste; re- 
move all the breast of the duck on either side; spread 
the dressing on the breast and roll it up and tie it; 
place it in a pan with a little butter, and salt, bake 
until it is nicely browned; add one-half cup of Rhine wine 
and let it simmer two minutes; cover with espagnole 
sauce; cook slowly forty minutes, and serve hot with 
croutons. 

TO COOK QUAIL 

Cut the quail in half; salt, with a little onion juice to 
flavor; when nicely browned add one pint of Burgundy 
wine; simmer ten minutes; two tablespoons espagnole; 
then add eight large oysters and four mushrooms; 
drop the oysters in so as not to cook too much; sea- 
son with salt, lemon juice and a dash of cayenne, and 
serve hot. 

ROAST QUAIL 

Clean the quail, wash them in soda and water. 
Cleanse again with clear water and wipe dry. Put 



Game and Poultry 43 

two oysters inside each quail, sew up and arrange 
them side by side in a baking-pan. Pour a little 
boiling water over them, cover and roast half an hour, 
basting often with butter. Serve upon pieces of fried 
toast laid on a hot dish. Make a gravy and pour a 
spoonful over each. 

SMALL BIRDS BROILED 

After dressing the birds, wipe dry and split down 
the backbone; rub with melted butter, sprinkle with 
pepper but do not salt. Lay on hot broiler over a 
clear bed of coals; turn three or four times and cook 
until both sides are nicely browned; take up on hot 
platter and sprinkle with salt, and pour over each half 
one-half teaspoonful of melted butter; lay two sprigs 
of cress on each half and serve. 

PIGEON ROASTED 

Clean and stuff the birds the same as for roasted 
chickens. Rub them well with butter, rub with salt 
and lay on slices of bacon in a dripping pan, with one 
cup of boiling water. Bake twenty-five minutes in a 
hot oven, basting very often, and turning them that 
they may brown well on both sides. Serve on a bed 
of water cresses, with giblet gravy and currant jelly. 

PIGEON BROILED 

Clean and wash two birds, split down the back, lay 
on a hot buttered gridiron with the bone sides toward 
the fire. Baste with melted butter, keep covered, broil 
twenty minutes slowly; turn a few minutes before it 
is done, then dust with salt and pepper. Lay on but- 
tered toast, add butter and the juice which escaped 
while broiling. Serve on a heated platter garnished 
with celery. 



44 Just for Two 

BELGIAN HARE 

Cut up the hare and fry quickly; put in sauce pan 
water or stock enough to boil, season with six cloves, 
six allspice, and pepper-corn, one bay leaf and half 
of one lemon, one-half cup vinegar, and boil until ten- 
der; take out the meat, thicken the stock with flour 
and butter mixed; boil and strain over the hare; serve 
with croutons fried in butter. 

SPICED RABBIT 

Cut up the rabbit after it has been very thoroughly 
cleaned and laid in salt and water for about an hour. 
Pour some vinegar over it and let it remain in the 
pickle over night. Then put a lump of fresh butter 
about the size of an egg into a deep stew-pan, cut up 
an onion in it, adding one bay leaf, about one dozen 
pepper corns and part of a celery root. Lay the rab- 
bit in this stew, adding part of the vinegar that the 
rabbit was pickled in and salt slightly before stewing. 
When tender, thicken with flour that has been brown- 
ed in a spider with butter. 

A SUBSTITUTE FOR MEAT (MOCK TURKEY) 

One-half pound of bread or cracker crumbs, one- 
quarter pound of butter, one-quarter pound nut meats, 
season, salt and pepper to taste, one egg, one pint 
water (hot), put bread and butter in chopping bowl, 
pouring over the water very hot; chop very fine; add 
egg and season and mix very thoroughly; grease pudding 
pans and scatter around some cracker crumbs; put in 
mixture and bake one hour; serve on hot platter with 
brown sauce; cook together one tablespoonful of butter 
and one of flour, and one cupful water; boil till thick- 
ened and season to taste. 




Cream of Tomato Soup. 

Bread Sticks. Olives. 

Roast Duck. Filling seasoned with Onion. 

Stuffed Potatoes. Grape Jelly. 

Water Cress Salad. 

Cheese Wafers. 

Baked Apples. 

Salted Almonds. 

Coffee. 



VEGETABLES 



FRIED RAW POTATOES 

Peel six good-sized potatoes very evenly and cut 
them in slices as thin as an eggshell. Put into a fry- 
ing pan one teaspoonful of butter and one of lard, 
and as soon as it boils add the sliced potatoes, sprink- 
ling them over with salt and pepper. Cover them with 
a close-fitting lid, letting the steam partly cook them. 
Remove the lid and then fry gold in color, shaking 
and turning them very carefully with a wooden ladle,. 
so as to brown equally and not break the slices. 

MASHED POTATOES 

Take seven good-sized potatoes; wash and pare, 
and lay them in cold water thirty minutes; then put 
them into a saucepan, cover with water and a large 
pinch of salt. Boil until thoroughly tender. Drain off 
the water and mash them fine. Have ready a piece of 
butter the size of an English walnut melted in a lit- 
tle hot milk and a pinch of salt. Mix this well with 
the mashed potato until they are nice and smooth, 
taking care they are not too wet. Heap them up 
in a vegetable dish, smooth over the top, put a small 
piece of butter on top in the center and have dots 
of pepper here and there. Make it a point always to 
have your dishes hot and serve hot. 

POTATOES BROWNED 

Take seven potatoes and mash them the same as 
mashed potatoes. Lay into the dish they are to be 



Vegetables 47 

served in, smooth over the top and brush over with 
the yolk of an egg. Set in oven to brown; it will 
brown in ten minutes if the oven is hot. 

SNOW POTATOES 

Boil and mash the potatoes. Season with butter, 
pepper, salt and cream. Then run them through the 
potato ricer. 

POTATO PUFFS 

Prepare four large potatoes the same as mashed po- 
tatoes. While hot shape into balls the size of an 
egg. Have a tin dish well buttered and place the balls 
in it. As soon as they are done brush over with 
beaten egg. Brown in oven. When done, slip a knife 
under them, removing to a hot platter, bedded with 
parsley. Serve at once. 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

Take four to five good-sized cold-boiled potatoes; 
slice endwise and crosswise, making them in small 
squares. Heat a tablespoonful of butter in a frying 
pan; fry in it half a small onion chopped fine, and fried 
till it changes color (not a brown but a yellow color). 
Then put in your potatoes, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, stir well with a wooden ladle and cook fifteen 
minutes. Drain dry by shaking in a heated colander, 
taking care not to break them. Serve hot. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

Bake four medium-sized potatoes. When done, cut 
lengthwise in half, scoop out the inside, mixing it with 
butter, pepper, salt and two tablespoonfuls of cream; 
beat until light, return to the shell of the potato. Place 
them again in the oven until ready to serve. 



48 Just for Two 

STEWED POTATOES 

Slice very thin a heaping cupful of cold baked po- 
tatoes; dredge with a teaspoonful of flour, a pinch of 
salt, and sprinkle with pepper. Put two teaspoonfuls 
of butter in a saucepan with a half cupful of fresh, 
rich milk, and when hot add the potatoes; stir once, 
and cook ten minutes without further stirring. The 
slices should lie in the gravy unbroken. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES (No. i) 

Brush clean four good-sized sweet potatoes. Bake 
in a hot oven a good half hour, or until they are done. 
When thoroughly baked they feel soft and yielding 
when pressed with the fingers. Try them often with 
a fork while baking. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES (No. 2) 

Boil, peel and slice four sweet potatoes; put in layers 
in the baking dish, covering each layer with brown 
sugar and pieces of butter. Bake in a moderate oven 
till a nice brown. 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 

Boil sweet potatoes until just done. Peel and lay 
them in a shallow pan. Sprinkle them with brown 
sugar and bits of butter. Put the pan in the oven and 
let the potatoes slightly brown. 

POTATOES' A LA MARYLAND 

Boil four sweet potatoes with their skins on; peel, 
cut in halves, lay in a shallow tin and cover with 
sweet cream. Add a little salt and a large piece of 
butter to each slice. Put into hot oven and bake a 
rich brown. 



Vegetables 49 

RHUBARB 

The tender rhubarb which is one of spring's first 
offerings, goes very well with roast lamb or any other 
meat course for dinner. It is much more delicious if 
cooked without water, as the stem itself contains 
plenty of juice. Peel the stalks, cut them into pieces 
an inch long and put them into the upper part of a 
double boiler with sugar. Since it is to be served as 
a vegetable it will not need so much sugar as when 
used as a sauce, a half cupful being sufficient. 

BAKED ASPARAGUS 

Asparagus is another of the early spring vegetables, 
and to this plant has been ascribed many medicinal 
qualities. The wise housewife never throws away the 
tough lower ends of the stalks, but cuts them up into 
short lengths, stewing them tender, and saves the 
juice to flavor her next soup. To bake the asparagus, 
cut the tender ends of the stalks into inch-long pieces 
and cook them about fifteen minutes. , Drain them and 
save the water in which they are cooked for the soup 
kettle. 

Arrange the asparagus in alternate layers, in a but- 
tered baking dish, with fine bread crumbs, bits of but- 
ter, salt and pepper and dice-shaped pieces of hard- 
boiled eggs. Sprinkle the top of the dish with buttered 
crumbs and bake twenty-five minutes. Send to the 
table in a baking dish. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS 

Boil stalks whole in salted water; serve in individual 
dishes with a dish of melted butter, in which the tops 
are to be dipped as they are eaten. 

CREAMED ASPARAGUS 

Cut only the very tender part of the stalks into inch 
pieces; boil until tender in as little water as can be 



SO Just for Two 

used and prevent burning; drain off the water, season 
with salt and pepper; pour into the cooking dish a cup 
of thin cream or sweet milk, and thicken with a table- 
spoonful of butter rubbed smooth with a tablespoon- 
ful of flour; boil up until sauce is smooth, and serve. 

BAKED CABBAGES 

Get a small firm white cabbage, clean and boil for 
fifteen minutes, then change the water and add more 
boiling water. When the cabbage is very tender drain 
and set aside to cool. When it is perfectly cold, chop 
fine and add two well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of 
butter, salt and pepper to taste, and three tablespoonfuls 
of cream. Stir all well together, and bake in a well- 
buttered pudding dish until brown. Serve very hot. 
This dish is very digestible. 

CREAMED CABBAGE 

Chop half a small cabbage and boil until tender 
and the water is nearly or quite boiled away. Cover 
with milk, season with salt, pepper and butter and 
serve. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS CREAMED 

Wash and throw a cupful of sprouts into water. 
Simmer until tender, which takes about three-quarters 
of an hour. Drain off the water and pour over them 
a cream sauce. 

CABBAGE SLAW 

To one cup of cabbage chopped fine, add this dress- 
ing: Mix thoroughly one egg beaten up well, and three 
table-spoonfuls of sugar, a pinch of salt, about half a 
pint of vinegar, then put on fire and cook until it just 
boils, stirring all the time, as it will curdle if too sour. 
(Add a little water to vinegar.) Cool this well, pour 
over slaw and serve. 



Vegetables 5 x 

FRIED PARSNIPS 

Scrape roots carefully; boil in salted water until 
tender. Cut into long slices, dredge with flour and 
fry quite brown in butter and dripping mixed. 

STEWED PARSNIPS 

Scrape roots and slice across; cook in as little wa- 
ter as possible, as the sugar of the vegetable goes 
into the water and is thrown away if much water is 
drained off; watch carefully to prevent burning, and 
when the water is cooked away add butter, salt, pepper, 
and milk enough to cover. Thicken with a little 
flour. 

CREAMED PARSNIPS 

Boil a dozen parsnips until tender. Make a drawn 
butter sauce as follows: In a small pan thoroughly 
mix a tablespoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Add a cupful of hot water and set over hot 
water until melted. Boil up once and pour over pars- 
nips which have been drained. Serve very hot. 

SWISS PARSNIPS 

Boil tender six parsnips, scrape and slice length- 
wise. Put in a saucepan, add two teaspoonfuls of but- 
ter, salt and pepper, and a little minced parsley. Shake 
until the mixture boils. Dish the parsnips, add to the 
sauce two tablespoonfuls of sweet cream in which has 
been stirred a teaspoonful of flour. Let come to a 
boil and pour over the parsnips. Serve hot. 

PARSNIP PATS 

Boil parsnips until tender enough to press through 
a sieve. Season with salt and pepper, add one beaten 
egg; form into small pats and fry a delicate brown. 



52 Just for Two 

DANDELION GREENS 

Dandelion greens are usually the first delicacy of the 
season for the women in the country. To avoid bitter 
taste the leaves must be parboiled in hot water and 
rinsed in cold water after each draining. Then they 
are boiled for fifteen minutes, or until tender. Drain 
them, run cold water over them and chop them fine. 
Just before serving, heat them in a frying pan with a 
little butter, salt and pepper. Send them to the table 
with the top garnished with hard-boiled eggs. 

SPINACH 

Wash the spinach very carefully through several 
waters, as particles of sand are apt to lodge in the stems 
near the root. Cut away the roots before boiling. Boil 
twenty minutes in as little water as can safely be used 
and not burn. Drain, press in the colander to remove 
all water; chop very fine, season with salt, pepper and 
butter, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs. 

CREAM OF SPINACH 

Wash and clean thoroughly half a peck of fresh 
spinach. Throw it into five quarts of salted boiling 
water in an uncovered saucepan, boil for twenty-five 
minutes. Drain it on a colander; when cool squeeze 
all the water out of it. It must be cooled quickly 
by pouring cold water over it, for the tin of the colan- 
der will spoil it. Chop it as fine as possible, then 
put it in a saucepan with one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, cook slowly for six minutes till dry, stir often. 
Sprinkle over it one teaspoonful of flour and mix well; 
add half a pint of rich cream. Season with salt and 
pepper to taste, cook again slowly for ten minutes. 
Remove from fire and add one tablespoonful of but- 
ter. Serve in a hot vegetable dish and garnish with 
sliced hard-boiled eggs. 



Vegetables 53 

BOILED ONIONS 

Select as many onions as required. (The white sil- 
ver skins are the best species.) Peel off the outside 
and cut off the ends, and put in cold water in a stew- 
pan, and let them scald three minutes; then turn off 
the water, pour on cold water salted a little and boil 
slowly until tender, which will take about thirty min- 
utes or longer, according to size of onions. When ten- 
der drain and dry. Pour over them a tablespoonful of 
melted butter. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and 
serve. 

STEWED ONIONS 

Select four nice onions, boil the same as boiled on- 
ions. When quite done drain off all the water. Add 
half a teacupful of milk, butter the size of a large wal- 
nut, salt and pepper, a heaping teaspoonful of flour 
stirred to a cream with a little milk. Let all boil up 
once and serve in a vegetable dish. 

BAKED ONIONS 

One large Spanish onion, wash and clean, but do not 
peel. Put into a saucepan with slightly salted water. 
Boil forty-five minutes, replacing with more boiling 
water as it evaporates. Pour off water and lay the 
onion on a cloth to dry. Roll onion in a buttered tis- 
sue paper, twisting it at the top, and bake in a slow 
oven three-quarters of an hour, or until tender all 
through. When tender, peel and place in a small deep 
dish and brown slightly. Baste with melted butter 
for ten minutes, season with salt and pepper, and pour 
over onion one spoonful of melted butter. 

LIMA AND KIDNEY BEANS 

One-half pint of beans, put them into boiling water, 
a little more than enough to cover them, and boil till 



54 Just for Two 

tender. Serve with butter and salt upon them, or 
cream them by mixing a teaspoonful of flour with 
milk till thick, then add a little parsley, and stir into 
the beans, adding a cup of milk. This makes a very 
fine dish. 

BEETS 

Wash and cook whole until tender; leave two or 
three inches of the top on until they are cooked. 
Young and tender beets should be chosen. Old beets 
require three or more hours to boil tender. When ten- 
der plunge for a moment in cold water and the skins 
will slip off easily. Be careful in preparing beets not 
to cut the skins, as the beets bleed and lose their 
sugar. Slice into dish; sprinkle each layer with salt 
and pepper. Heat one-half cup water, one-half cup vin- 
egar, one tablespoonful sugar and one tablespoonful 
butter, and pour over the sliced beets. 

BAKED BEETS 

Wash and clean three or four beets, put into oven 
and bake three-quarters of an hour in a hot oven, 
turning them often with a knife to keep the juice from 
running out as it would if a fork were used. When 
done, remove the skins and serve with butter, salt and 
pepper on the slices. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS 

Pare cucumbers and cut into thick slices; dip into 
beaten egg whch has been seasoned with salt and 
pepper, then roll in fine cracker crumbs and fry in 
frying pan a light brown. 

GREEN PEAS 

Use green peas as soon as possible after picking, as 
they lose their sweetness rapidly. Shell, wash and 
boil twenty minutes, having all the water boil away if 



Vegetables 55 

possible; unless the peas are very young and tender, 
it is best to add a teaspoonful of sugar to the water in 
which they are boiled. Season with salt, pepper, but- 
ter, milk or cream. Heat the milk to the boiling point 
and serve. 

GREEN PEAS WITH NEW POTATOES 

Cut two thin slices of fat, salt pork into small dice; 
fry a little in the bottom of kettle in which you are to 
cook the vegetables. Add about a quart of small, new 
potatoes and a pint or more of green peas. Season 
with salt and pepper; when tender turn off all the wa- 
ter except about half a cupful. Add a cup of milk and 
thicken with a little flour. 

STEWED GREEN PEAS 

The same amount as above, shell and wash; put into 
a saucepan with boiling water and boil until very ten- 
der. Drain in a colander. Melt a heaping teaspoon- 
ful of butter in one of flour; stir well and add to the 
peas, and boil eight minutes. 

CANNED PEAS 

Drain the peas in a colander and rinse off all the 
liquor with cold water. Put in basin with two or three 
tablespoonfuls of water, just enough to heat the peas 
and keep them from scorching; when well heated, add 
a cup of rich milk, butter, pepper and salt. Let just 
come to a boil and serve. A teaspoonful of sugar added 
to the peas when boiling is a great improvement. A 
good brand of peas prepared in this way will be nearly 
equal to the fresh vegetable. 

BAKED TOMATOES 

Peel and slice four tomatoes a quarter of an inch 
thick, place in layers in a pudding-dish, seasoning each 



56 Just for Two 

layer with salt and pepper, bits of butter and a sprink- 
ling of white sugar. Cover with a lid, and, bake half 
an hour. Remove the lid and brown ten minutes. Just 
before serving, pour over the top three tablespoonfuls 
of whipped cream with melted butter. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

Select four nice, ripe tomatoes, pour boiling water 
over them and let them remain in the boiling water a 
few minutes; peel off the skins, put in a graniteware 
saucepan, and stew about twenty minutes; add a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of butter, salt and pepper, letting them 
stew ten minutes longer. Serve hot. 

FRIED TOMATOES— GREEN OR RIPE' 

Four tomatoes and one cupful of crumbs, one small 
onion chopped fine, salt and pepper. If ripe tomatoes 
are used, choose solid firm ones, not too ripe. Remove 
skin. If green ones, just beginning to ripen, are used, 
do not pare; cut a thin paring from the end and divide 
into slices about one-half inch thick. Prepare the 
dressing and press it into the tomatoes until all the 
interstices are filled. Fry in drippings a rich brown. 
Serve in hot platter. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

■Butter the sides of a small pudding-dish, put a layer 
of breadcrumbs in the bottom, on them put a layer 
of sliced tomatoes, sprinkle with salt and pepper, add- 
ing bits of butter and a little white sugar sprinkled 
over. Repeat until the pan is full, having the top layer 
of sliced tomatoes with bits of butter on each slice. 
Bake in a closely covered dish till thoroughly cooked 
through. Remove cover and brown quickly. Serve 
hot. 



Vegetables 57 

GREEN CORN— BOILED 

Select four nice ears of corn. Strip off the husks 
and remove all the silk; put into boiling water and 
boil twenty-five minutes. Serve on a heated platter 
covered over with a large table napkin. 

GREEN CORN— ROASTED 

Strip off all the husks from the corn and roast on 
the gridiron over a bright fire of coals, turning it as 
one side is done. Serve with salt and butter. 

CORN FRITTERS 

Green corn left over makes a nice lunch dish. Cut 
the corn from the cob. Put into a bowl one-half cup- 
ful of corn, half cupful of milk, quarter cupful of 
flour, one small egg, pinch of salt, and a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of butter. Mix well into a thick batter, 
and fry in small cakes in very hot butter. Serve with 
plenty of butter and powdered sugar. 

FRIED EGG PLANT 

Choose medium-sized egg plants; slice a quarter of 
an inch thick and let stand for a half hour in cold, 
salted water; dry on a cloth and dip in egg, then in 
fine crumbs; dip again in egg and crumbs and fry 
a rich brown. They may be peeled before frying, 
or after frying the skin readily peels off. Do not 
remove from the salt water until just as you are 
ready to fry, as they turn black quickly. 

STUFFED EGG PLANT 

Get a very small egg plant, cut in two; scrape out 
all the inside and put into a saucepan with a little 
minced ham. Cover with water and boil till very ten- 
der; drain off the water; add two heaping teaspoonfuls 



58 Just for Two 

of grated crumbs, one tablespoonful of butter, half a 
small onion minced; pinch of salt and a dash of pep- 
per. Stuff each half of the hull with the mixture. Add 
a small lump of butter to each and bake fifteen min- 
utes. Serve hot. 

CREAMED TURNIPS 

Cut turnips into small dice; boil in salted water, 
drain, pour on milk to cover. Thicken with a little 
flour, moistened with milk. Season with butter, salt 
and pepper. 

CREAMED CARROTS 

Slice new carrots and boil until tender in salted 
water; use as little water as possible and prevent 
burning, so that the sweetness will remain in the veg- 
etable, and not be thrown away in the water. Pre- 
pare a cream of two tablespoonfuls butter rubbed 
into two tablespoonfuls flour, and one pint of boiling 
milk or thin cream poured over it. Let all boil up 
once with the carrots. Sprinkle chopped parsley over 
the dish just before sending to the table. 

BAKED SQUASH IN THE SHELL 

Cut Hubbard squash into pieces about four inches 
square; lay in baking pan, pepper and salt each piece, 
and put a lump of butter in the center of each. Bake 
until tender and serve in the shell just as it comes 
from the oven. 

SUMMER SQUASH 

Cut the squash in pieces and put in a cheesecloth bag; 
boil in salted water until done. Then remove the bag 
and hang up to drain. When it has drained well put in 
the colander, leaving the bag still closed; with a potato 
masher press out the rest of the juice. Open the bag, 
turn the squash into a basin and mash any remaining 



Vegetables 59 

lumps. Season with butter, pepper and salt, heat, and 
serve. 

CAULIFLOWER SERVED WHOLE 

To cook cauliflower and have it remain unbroken, 
wash thoroughly, remove all outer leaves and let it 
stand flower down in a deep dish of water to which a 
good handful of salt has been added. Allow it to re- 
main there three or four hours; then shake it free from 
the water, tie it in a piece of fine muslin. Drop into 
a pot of briskly boiling salted water and allow it to 
boil slowly forty minutes. Remove cloth carefully 
and place in deep dish flower up and cover with the 
following sauce: 

One tablespoonful butter, two tablespoonfuls flour; 
cream together and stir slowly into one pint of boiling 
milk until it is of the consistency of cream. Season 
with salt and little white pepper. This vegetable can 
be prepared more quickly if separated into the flowerets 
and boiled until tender, omitting the cloth. 

ESCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER 

One cauliflower, three-quarters cup of milk, one table- 
spoonful butter, two tablespoonfuls bread crumbs, one 
egg, salt and pepper. Boil the cauliflower until tender, 
about twenty minutes. Make a sauce of the butter 
melted, add milk and crumbs and simmer until crumbs 
absorb the liquid, add the beaten egg and remove from 
the stove before the egg is cooked. Break the cauli- 
flower carefully, arrange in a buttered baking-dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Pour sauce on this, 
dust a few dry crumbs on the top and bake a light 
brown. 

CABBAGE AND CAULIFLOWER 

Cut cabbage into quarters and soak in cold water 
one-half hour. Chop the leaves, and cook in boiling 



60 Just for Two 

water until tender. Drain and serve with butter, salt 
and pepper, or with a white sauce. Cook cauliflower 
whole and in a bag to keep its shape. 

MUSHROOMS STEWED 

Wash, peel, drain and slice rather thin. To every 
quart add a half teacupful of cold water, a teaspoonful 
of salt and a pinch of pepper. Simmer for five min- 
utes and add a tablespoonful of butter rubbed into a 
tablespoonful of flour. Remove as soon as it bubbles. 
Add a teaspoonful of lemon juice if desired. 

MUSHROOMS CREAMED 

Cook precisely as directed for stewed mushrooms, 
omitting the lemon juice and adding three tablespoon- 
fuls of rich, sweet cream. 

MUSHROOMS BROILED 

Choose fine, large and neatly dressed mushrooms 
and broil over clear hot coals for three minutes, turn- 
ing once. Serve with the cups upward, dressed with 
melted butter, salt, pepper and a little lemon juice. 

MUSHROOMS FRIED 

Place the gill side downward in hot butter, in granite 
pan. Fry covered for five minutes, turning once. Serve 
gills upward, adding salt, pepper and a little lemon 
juice if liked. 

MUSHROOMS IN SHELLS 

Cut fresh, dressed mushrooms in small pieces, dry 
in a napkin and toss them in hot butter in a saucepan 
until brown but not done. Shake in a teaspoonful of 
flour, stir, add a teacupful of rich veal or chicken stock 
and let simmer for five minutes. Beat two eggs with 



Vegetables 61 

the juice of half a lemon and add slowly, stirring until 
as thick as cream. Fill table shells with the mixture, 
sprinkle with cracker-crumbs and brown in a very 
hot oven. 

MUSHROOM PATTIES 

Prepare a mixture as above, have ready hot shells of 
puff paste that have been baked in patty pans, and drop 
a spoonful in each. Serve hot. 

ESCALLOPED MUSHROOMS 

Place alternate layers of mushrooms and cracker- 
crumbs in a thickly buttered baking dish and season 
each layer highly with butter, salt and pepper and a 
little lemon juice. Have the last layer of crumbs. 
Pour a teacupful of cream or delicate stock over, bake 
twenty minutes and serve very hot. 

BUTTERED RICE 

Throw a cupful of raw rice into two quarts of 
boiling water, slightly salted. Boil fast for twenty 
minutes, or until each grain is softened — not broken. 
Drain in a colander and set in open oven to dry while 
you heat a tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan; 
drop in a teaspoonful of grated onion, stir to a hiss- 
ing fry. Now turn the dried rice into the hot but- 
ter, toss lightly for a minute, seasoning to taste with 
pepper and salt, and serve in a deep dish. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

One-half cup rice, three-fourths teaspoonful salt; cook 
until tender and dry. While still lukewarm add to 
each cup of boiled rice one-half egg, a speck of white 
pepper and a bit of butter. Mould and set away to 
cool. Roll in egg, then in fine bread crumbs and fry 
in deep fat one minute. Make in shape of pyramid. 



MACARONI 



MACARONI A LA ITALIENNE 

Divide a quarter of a pound of macaroni into four- 
inch pieces. Simmer fifteen minutes in plenty of 
boiling water, salted. Drain. Put the macaroni into a 
saucepan and turn over it a strong soup stock, enough 
to prevent burning. Strew over it an ounce of grated 
cheese; when the cheese is melted, dish. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE 

Break half a pound of macaroni into pieces an inch 
or two long; cook it in boiling water, enough to cover 
it well; put in a good teaspoonful of salt; let it boil 
about twenty minutes. Drain it well and then put a 
layer in the bottom of a well-buttered pudding-dish, 
upon this some grated cheese and small pieces of but- 
ter, a bit of salt, then more macaroni, and so on, filling 
the dish; sprinkle the top layer with a thick layer of 
cracker crumbs. Pour over the whole a teacupful of 
cream or milk. Set it in the oven and bake half an 
hour. It should be nicely browned on top. Serve in 
the same dish in which it was baked with a clean 
napkin pinned around it. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

One-quarter of a pound of spaghetti, one teaspoonful 
of flour, one large tablespoonful of butter, one-half 
pint of stewed tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste. Take 
a handful of the long sticks, put the ends into boiling 
salted water; as they soften, bend and coil the spag- 



Macaroni 63 

hetti in the water without breaking it. Boil rapidly 
twenty minutes. When done put it in a colander to 
drain. 

Put the butter in a frying-pan to melt; add to it 
the flour; mix until smooth, then add the tomatoes 
(strained) and stir continually until it boils. Now 
carefully add the spaghetti. Let it boil up once and 
serve without cutting. 








Oysters in Ice Cups. 

Celery. Wafers. Olives. 

Boned Turkey with Gravy. 

Cranberry Sauce. Currant Jelly. 

Baked Sweet Potatoes. Mashed White Potatoes. 

Escalloped Tomatoes. 

Orange Sherbet. 

Lettuce Celery Salad. 

Cheese Wafers. 

Mince Pie. 

Raisins. Nuts. Candy. 

Coffee. 



EGGS 

BOILED EGGS 

Three minutes boils eggs soft; six minutes boils eggs 
so yolk is not quite set; ten minutes boils eggs hard; 
twenty or thirty minutes boils eggs so yolks are mealy. 
They are said to be more digestible boiled as long as 
this, but the yolk is apt to darken. To have eggs jel- 
lied, put them into boiling water and then set dish 
back on range where the water will keep hot but not 
boil. In ten minutes the eggs will be cooked through; 
the whites will be like a jelly, and not hard as in 
boiled eggs. 

POACHED EGGS 

Fill' basin with boiling salted water, if the bottom of 
the basin is greased first, the eggs will not stick to 
the dish. Break each egg into a saucer, and let slide 
carefully into the basin; keep hot but do not boil the 
water; when a film of white comes over the top, re- 
move eggs to a hot dish; put piece of butter on each 
egg; sprinkle with pepper. 

SCALLOPED EGGS 

Four hard-boiled eggs, and half a cup of bread 
crumbs; one-Half cup white sauce; slice the eggs in 
thin rings, cover the bottom of a buttered baking dish 
with crumbs, then the eggs sprinkled with salt and 
pepper, cover with sauce and arrange in layers, the 
same way until the dish is nearly full. Cover the top 
well with crumbs, and brown nicely in a moderate 
oven. 



66 Just for Two 

CURRIED EGGS 

Three hard-boiled eggs, two ounces of butter, half of 
one onion and one gill stock, one dessertspoon curry 
powder, one ounce flour, one teaspoonful of cream; fry 
onion in butter (an apple may be added if desired) then 
add the flour, stock and curry powder; stir gently 
until flour is cooked; then add the cream; cut the 
eggs in halves and warm half of the pieces in the curry; 
keep the rest for decorating and dish prettily with 
curry in the center, and a wall of rice around it. A 
sprig or two of parsley and slices of lemon make it 
look nice. 

SHIRRED EGGS 

Separate the number of eggs desired, being careful to 
preserve each yolk unbroken in part of its shell; put 
whites in a bowl; beat stiff after salting sufficiently. 
Butter as many gem pans or shirred egg dishes as there 
were eggs; dip a large spoonful or more of the stiff 
white into each dish; drop the yolks carefully into 
the center and bake until the white is very lightly 
browned. A very pretty and dainty way to serve eggs. 

EGGS IN DRAWN BUTTER 

Boil four or more eggs according to size of family; 
cut whites into small pieces, and stir into just enough 
drawn butter sauce to mix well. Grate the hard-boiled 
yolks over, garnish with parsley and serve. 

EGGS A LA ROBERT 6 

Peel one medium sized onion and remove the heart; 
cut the heart into slices and put it with a tablespoonful 
of butter in a saucepan over a brisk fire and brown 
well; moisten with a half cupful of lean broth; season 
with salt and pepper; cook and let the sauce reduce 
for about ten minutes; when ready to serve cut four 



Eggs 6; 

hard-boiled eggs in slices; mix them in the preparation 
and let heat together, without boiling, for two min- 
utes; add half a teaspoonful of diluted mustard and 
serve. 

BREAD OMELET 

Four tablespoonfuls bread crumbs soaked in milk, 
four eggs, one tablespoonful melted butter, salt and 
pepper; soak bread soft, add beaten yolks and season- 
ing, beating the whites and cook as an ordinary ome- 
let, folding when set. 

HAM OMELET 

One-half cup of chopped ham, four eggs, salt and 
pepper; beat eggs separately; add yolks to the minced 
ham; season; fold in the whites and fry in hot greased 
spider, folding over when set. 

BAKED OMELET 

Four eggs beaten separately, one cup sweet milk and 
one tablespoonful flour, a little salt and stir whites of 
eggs in last; pour into well-buttered shallow pan and 
bake fifteen minutes. 

CHEESE OMELET 

Beat well four eggs; add to them two tablespoonfuls 
of milk and one tablespoonful of grated cheese; add a 
teaspoonful more of the cheese before folding. Turn 
out on a heated dish and grate a sprinkling of cheese 
over the omelet before serving. 

BAKED EGGS 

Break a sufficient number of eggs to serve the fam- 
ily into a buttered shallow baking plate; season with 
salt, pepper and a lump of butter on each egg; dip 
enough rich cream on the eggs to about half cover the 
top; bake until eggs are set. 



68 Just for Two 

DEVILED EGGS 

Boil hard as many eggs as are required; throw into 
cold water for half an hour; remove the shells, cut into 
halves and remove the yolks without breaking the 
whites; rub the yolks smooth; add (for six eggs) a 
large teaspoonful of melted butter or olive oil, one ta- 
blespoonful of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, and a 
teaspoonful of made mustard, or one-third teaspoonful 
dry mustard. Mix to a smooth paste; stuff the whites 
with the mixture; press the halves closely together; se- 
cure with a wooden toothpick, and lay in a bed of let- 
tuce leaves. 

STUFFED EGGS 

Prepare same as preceding recipe with the addition 
of minced ham, tongue, chicken, or other cold meat. 
Mustard may be omitted if desired, and lemon juice 
substituted for the vinegar. Minced sardines or grated 
cheese may be used the same as any variety of meat; 
parsley chopped fine, cress, or any savory herb may be 
used for seasoning. Any variety may be made with a 
little practice. 

PINK PICKLED EGGS 

Shell hard-boiled eggs and drop them into the vine- 
gar in which beets have been pickled. Remove when 
colored a delicate pink. These are a pretty change for 
a picnic lunch. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

Have ready five eggs broken into a dish; salt and pep- 
per them; put one tablespoonful of butter into a hot 
frying pan; tip around so that the butter will touch all 
sides of the pan. Turn them without beating into the 
pan. Stir them one way fast for five minutes until they 
are mixed. Do not let them get hard. Turn over toast 
and serve. 



Eggs 69 

SCRAMBLED EGGS ON TOAST 

Put butter size of large walnut in frying pan; when 
it melts pour in a quarter cup of milk; break four eggs 
into the milk; season with salt and pepper; stir con- 
stantly until set sufficiently then dip quickly on small 
slices of buttered toast. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH HAM 

Cut very fine, cold boiled or fried ham; warm in a 
skillet containing a little ham dripping; break four or 
five eggs into the dish; season with salt and pepper and 
stir until nearly set. 

EGGS AND BACON 

Take a nice rasher of bacon; cut into little diced 
cubes; fry quickly until nicely browned; strain five beat- 
en eggs into a basin, season with pepper and add to the 
bacon. Stir until quite firm. Serve in a heated platter 
garnished with hot pickles. 

SERVING EGGS 

A dainty way to serve eggs for breakfast, luncheon or 
tea is to take round slices of bread, toast them deli- 
cately, butter them and dip lightly in hot water. On 
each round spread the white of an egg beaten stiff 
with a speck of salt. Make a depression in the cen- 
ter, and in each place a whole yolk. Set the toast in the 
oven just long enough to set the yolk and brown the 
white a trifle. 



BREAD, BISCUITS, Etc. 

Use flour containing a large per cent, of gluten, or 
a flour called entire, whole wheat. 

Flour should be kept in a dry atmosphere. It makes 
better bread if heated just before using it. 

If milk is used heat it to prevent souring. 

Milk and water are both used luke warm. 

The yeast must be fresh. One-half cake of yeast 
should be used with one quart liquid if the bread is 
set at night. One cake of yeast should be used with 
one quart liquid if the bread is set in the morning. 
Dissolve one yeast cake in one cup of luke warm water. 

Loaves of bread should be baked one hour or more 
in a hot oven. Place on the grate ten minutes, then re- 
move to the floor of the oven. The heat of the oven 
should increase slightly during the first twenty minutes 
and should be kept even for twenty minutes, and should 
decrease during the last twenty minutes. 

When baked, the loaves should be cooled, un- 
covered, on a wire rack. 

Biscuits require more heat than loaves of bread. 

Bread should be kept in a clean bread box and not 
exposed to moisture. 

WHITE BREAD 

Take half a pint of peeled potatoes cut into small 
pieces; boil them in one pint, of water, skim out the po- 
tatoes and mash fine. Add two tablespoonfuls of fine 
flour to the potatoes, pour over the potato water and 
stir till smooth. When cool, add two tablespoonfuls 
of yeast and a half teaspoonful of salt. Let it rise over 



Bread, Biscuits, etc. 71 

night. In the morning, take the bread bowl filled with 
flour, pour half a pint of boiling water in the center, 
and mix. Add enough cold water to make lukewarm; 
then pour in the sponge made the night before, mix 
the dough soft and knead one-half hour. Put back in- 
to bread-bowl and set to rise. When light, knead 
down and set to rise again. Then knead into loaves, 
put into bread pans and when light bake in a moderate 
oven. This quantity will make two loaves. 

MILK BREAD 

About half-past four in the afternoon make a sponge 
in the following way: Pour one and a half cupfuls of 
boiling water on six hops, and when lukewarm, strain 
and squeeze the hops dry. Measure the hop water and 
add enough more water to make one cup and a half. 
Melt in this hop water half a cake of yeast and add 
three cupfuls of sifted flour. Use a three-quart basin; 
cover tightly, and set in a warm place until eight o'- 
clock, when the sponge should fill the basin about two- 
thirds full. Sift three more cupfuls of Pillsbury's Best, 
add one teaspoonful of salt and one pinch over, and put 
into a six-quart earthenware vessel. Add one teaspoon- 
ful of lard and one tablespoonful of sugar, and mix. 
Then pour in the sponge. Rinse out the basin with one 
cupful and a half of rich milk, add this to the flour and 
mix. Turn on a lightly floured board and knead into a 
soft elastic mass, using a half cupful of flour. Put it 
back into the large basin, cover tightly and set to rise al) 
night in a warm place, temperature 70°. By half-past 
six in the morning it should quite fill the basin. Turn 
out and knead long enough to form into loaves. Use 
one teaspoonful of flour and no more for the last 
kneading; the dough must be soft and elastic. Put into 
pans, cover and let rise an hour and a half in a tempera- 
ture of 90 . The dough should more than double in 
size. The first ten minutes the oven should be hot 



72 Just for Two 

enough to lightly brown the top; then moderate a little 
and bake for twenty-five minutes, not more than thirty 
minutes. This makes two loaves. Bread should be 
entirely cold before being put away in the bread box. 

SOFT GRAHAM BREAD 

Three cups of graham flour, one cupful of white 
flour, one teaspoonful of salt, four tablespoonfuls of 
molasses, or four tablespoonfuls of brown sugar 
and two tablespoonfuls of molasses, two tablespoonfuls 
of butter or lard, three-fourths of a cup of warm water. 
Mix the ingredients in the order given and add suffi- 
cient lukewarm water to make a soft dough. When 
the dough is light, beat it and pour it into the bread 
pans, filling them half full. When light, bake in a 
moderate oven. 

BROWN BREAD 

One cupful of sour milk, two-thirds cupful of molas- 
ses, two cupfuls of yellow cornmeal, one cupful of gra- 
ham flour, one teaspoonful of soda, a pinch of salt, and 
one of ginger. Steam two hours in a covered crock in 
a kettle of boiling water; the water must be boiling be- 
fore setting in the crock. Mix the salt with the meal 
and flour, then add the molasses; mix the soda and 
sour milk together and add to the rest. Mix carefully, 
as a great deal depends on the mixing. After steaming 
two hours set in oven to brown ten minutes. 

LIGHT ROLLS 

One egg, one cupful of sugar, three-quarters cupful 
of sweet milk, three-quarters cupful of butter and lard 
together, three or four cupfuls of soft bread dough, 
some cinnamon and one teaspoonful of baking powder. 
Knead up as stiff as required. Let it rise until very 
light. 



Bread, Biscuits, etc. 73 

FRENCH ROLLS 

One large cup of sponge, one cupful of warm water, 
one-half cupful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
one egg, and flour enough to make a stiff dough. Let 
it rise, then mould again, roll out and cut with a biscuit 
cutter; fold over and lay in baking-pan. Let it rise 
again and bake. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

Sift one quart of flour into a bowl; make a hole in 
the middle, put in three level tablespoonfuls of lard, 
one heaping tablespoonful of white sugar, one cupful of 
warm sweet milk, one-half teacup of yeast, one tea- 
spoonful of salt. 

Let this stand in a warm place without stirring until 
light, then stir to a soft dough. Use a little more flour 
if necessary. About two hours before supper, work out 
the dough, using a little more flour. Roll out about half 
an inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter, butter lightly 
with soft butter, fold over and put in the pans a little 
way apart. Let rise until tea time and bake in a quick 
oven. These rolls must be started by nine o'clock; 
earlier in winter. 

CINNAMON ROLLS 

Make a rich biscuit dough, using baking powder and 
sweet milk. Roll out into a sheet one-fourth inch thick 
and cut into strips two and one-half inches wide. Rub 
two cupfuls of brown sugar and one-half cupful butter 
to a cream, add to it enough ground cinnamon to give 
the desired flavor, rub well together and spread upon 
the strips of dough. Cut in sections, sprinkle with 
raisins or currants, roll up, place in pans and bake in 
a rather hot oven. When partly baked, brush with su- 
gar and butter. 



74 Just for Two 

LUNCH BISCUIT 

Two cups (large) of flour, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, one teaspoonful sugar, one-half teaspoonful 
salt, one egg, one cupful sweet milk, one large table- 
spoonful butter. Cut into small biscuits, handle as lit- 
tle as possible, and bake in a quick oven. They're nice 
biscuits for a lunch, for they are just as good cold as 
hot. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

Take one cupful of sifted Pillsbury's Best and stir in 
one teaspoonful of baking powder and one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt. Cut into this one large tablespoonful 
of butter, and add a half cupful of rich milk. Dredge 
with flour, cut into small pieces, pat each piece into a 
ball, flatten a little and lay in a greased pan close to- 
gether and bake in a hot oven. Bake eighteen minutes. 

GERMAN BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

One pint of flour, sifted twice, one tablespoonful 
of butter, one tablespoonful of lard, three-quarters 
teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
about three-quarters cupful sweet milk. Do not roll 
heavily. Simply press it out a little with the hand. 
Do not handle it any more than necessary. Cut into 
biscuit shape. Let stand a few minutes, and then bake 
eighteen minutes in a rather quick oven. 

SWISS MUFFINS 

Sift one heaping cupful flour three times with one 
teaspoonful baking powder and a scant half-dessert- 
spoonful of salt; half a cupful each of milk and water; 
add to this one well-beaten egg, one teaspoonful of 
sugar, one large tablespoonful of butter; stir well, then 
add to the flour. Bake in muffin rings twenty minutes 
in a hot oven. Serve hot with maple syrup. 



Bread, Biscuits, etc. 75 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

Two cupfuls of graham flour, two pinches of salt, 
one tablespoonful of molasses, one egg, and one table- 
spoonful of butter. Set to rise and bake for fifteen 
minutes in muffin rings. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

Two cupfuls of flour, one cupful of cornmeal, good 
measure, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one cupful of 
sugar, three beaten eggs, two cupfuls of milk, one ta- 
blespoonful and a half of baking powder, two good 
pinches of salt. Sift together the flour and cornmeal, 
baking powder and salt. Beat the eggs and sugar to- 
gether, add the milk, stir well, then add to the flour. 
At the last add the melted butter. Bake in muffin 
pans in a hot oven. Serve hot. 

SOUR MILK MUFFINS 

Beat two eggs till very light, then add one cup of 
sour milk, in which one-half teaspoonful of soda has 
been dissolved; when well mixed add one tablespoonful 
of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of salt, and one and one- 
half cupfuls sifted flour. Have the gem pans hot and 
well greased, fill half full, and bake twenty minutes. 

FEATHER MUFFINS 

Beat together one teaspoonful each of lard and sugar, 
add the yolk of one egg, one gill of milk, one-half pint 
of flour, and one teaspoonful of baking powder and a 
little salt; lastly the well-beaten white of the egg. Bake 
in hot oven. 

WHEAT GEMS 

One teacupful of milk, one full cupful of wheat flour, 
a pinch of salt, and one beaten egg. Bake in gem pans. 



76 Just for Two 

FRUIT GEMS 

Take gem batter and add chopped raisins, figs, dates, 
together or separate. Roll the fruit in dry flour. Suit 
your taste as to the proportion of fruit. If a little 
sweet cream is used in mixing the dough, the cakes 
will be nice enough for dessert, or a lunch for travel- 
ing. 

NOVEL CORN GEMS 

Blend thoroughly in the order mentioned two cups 
of sweet milk, one well-beaten egg, a pinch of salt, one 
tablespoonful of brown sugar, a tablespoonful of ma- 
ple syrup, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one cup 
of Indian meal and one cup of wheat flour sifted with 
a heaping teaspoonful of baking powder. When very 
light stir in half a cup of finely chopped dates. Have 
ready hot gem pans. Fill each about three-quarters 
full with the batter and bake thirty minutes in a mod- 
erate oven. 

FLOUR PANCAKES 

One pint sour milk, one egg, a little salt and one 
teaspoonful soda. Make a batter with flour, and bake 
on a hot griddle. To be eaten hot with maple syrup. 

BATTER CAKES 

One pint flour, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one level teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoon- 
ful of soft butter, one and one-half cupfuls of sweet 
milk. The batter is better for standing half an hour. 

Waffles may be made by the same recipe. 

Always mix soda or baking powder with flour. 

GRIDDLE CAKES 

One cupful of sour loppered milk, half a teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one beaten egg, one tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter, pinch of salt, two tablespoonfuls 



Bread, Biscuits, etc. 77 

and a half of corn meal, half a cup of flour. Mix half 
an hour before baking, then add the soda dissolved in 
a teaspoonful of water. Beat thoroughly and bake on 
hot soap-stone griddle. Do not grease soapstone. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

One cupful of buckwheat flour, half a teaspoonful of 
salt, one cupful of luke-warm water, and one-eighth 
of a yeast cake dissolved in three tablespoonfuls of 
water. Mix thoroughly, and set to rise over night. 
Before baking, add one teaspoonful of molasses, and. 
one large pinch of soda dissolved in three tablespoon- 
fuls of water. Beat well together, and bake on a soap- 
stone griddle. Serve cakes hot. 

POTATO PANCAKES 

Grate four good sized potatoes, season with a pinch 
of salt and pepper, two eggs not beaten, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, a very little milk and a pinch of baking 
powder. Mix all well together and fry like ordinary 
pancakes in deep fat. Serve hot. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

One cup soft boiled rice, one-half cup milk, three 
e ggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, three table- 
spoonful flour. Fry immediately after adding eggs. 

FRENCH TOAST 

Cut bread which is not too fresh into pieces about 
half an inch thick; cut the slices into halves; drop a 
piece of butter into frying pan. Beat two eggs; add a 
pint of milk with salt to taste. Drop each piece of 
bread into this and then onto the frying pan. Fry to 
a nice brown. Drop a little currant jelly on the mid- 
dle of each piece. Serve on a plate garnished with 
parsley. 



78 Just for Two 

PEACH TEA CAKE 

One large tablespoonful, equal parts, of butter and 
lard; one gill of sugar and one gill of milk, one beaten 
egg, two cups of flour, and one teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Turn into a shallow baking pan. Do not 
have the batter more than one-half inch deep. Cover 
with sliced peaches. Sprinkle with sugar and cinna- 
mon. Bake thirty minutes; serve warm with cream and 
sugar. 

YEAST 

A double handful of hops in a thin bag, one quart of 
boiling water, one quart of potatoes cut in small pieces. 
Boil the potatoes with the hops until thoroughly done, 
keeping them covered tightly all the time. Take the 
potatoes out and mash well, then pour the boiling hop 
water over them; add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, two 
of ginger, one of salt, and let it stand until just warm. 
Add one teacupful of yeast, put away in a jug in a cool 
place. This yeast will keep two months in winter and 
two weeks in summer. 

Uses for Stale Bread 

Crusts and small pieces of bread should be dried in 
a cool oven until a light brown. Roll them on a pastry 
board, or put through a meat grinder. Crumbs must 
be sifted. Use them only to cover articles of food 
cooked in deep fat. Crumbs should be kept in jars with 
a piece of muslin tied over them. 

CROUTONS 

Cut pieces of stale bread into cubes, and brown in 
the oven. 



Bread, Biscuits, etc. 79 

SIPPETS 

Cut bread into pieces two inches thick, cut either 
round or four and a half inches long by three inches 
wide. Remove part of the bread from the center, but- 
ter, and brown in the oven. 

BREAD PUDDING 

Butter the sides and bottom of a deep pudding dish, 
then place a layer of stale bread, rolled fine, in the bot- 
tom of the dish, then a layer of any kind of fruit; sprin- 
kle on a little sugar, then another layer of bread crumbs 
and of fruit, and so on until the dish is full, the top 
layer being crumbs. Make a custard as for pies, add 
a pint of milk and mix. Pour it over the top of the 
pudding and bake until the fruit is cooked. Stale cake 
crumbs fine, in place of bread, is an improvement. 

PLAIN BREAD PUDDING 

Break up a pint of stale bread after cutting away the 
crust. Pour over it a quart of boiling milk; add to this 
a piece of butter the size of an egg. Cover the dish 
tightly and let stand until cool, then with a spoon mash 
it until fine, add a teaspoonful of cinnamon, one nutmeg 
grated, half a cupful of sugar, and one-quarter teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in a little hot water. Beat up 
four eggs very light and add last. Turn all into a well- 
buttered pudding dish and bake three-quarters of an 
hour. Serve it warm with hard sauce. This recipe may 
be steamed or boiled. Very nice either way. 

SOUP STICKS 

Cut stale bread into one to three ineh slices, remove 
crusts, butter and brown in the oven. 



80 Just for Two 

TOAST 

Cut stale bread into slices one-fourth inch thick. Put 
it on a toaster, move it gently over the heat until dry, 
then allow it to become a little brown by placing it 
nearer the heat and turning constantly. It may be first 
dried in the oven. Hot milk may be poured over dry 
toast. 

ZWIEBACK 

Cut baker's or other light bread into one-inch slices 
and brown in a moderate oven. 

CREAM TOAST 

One tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of 
flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, one and one-half cup- 
fuls of milk or cream. Four slices of toast. Heat 
the butter and when it bubbles add the flour and salt, 
then gradually the hot milk, stirring constantly and 
allowing the mixture to thicken each time. Pour this 
sauce over the slices of dry or moist toast. Moist 
toast is prepared by quickly dipping dry toast into hot 
salted water or hot milk. 




Chicken Sandwiches. 

Olives. 

Strawberries and Cream. 

Coffee. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 



SAUCES 

Cooked sauces should never boil hard, or be vio- 
lently stirred while cooking. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

Two cups of beef suet, two cups of chopped raisins, 
half a cup of sugar, one-half teaspoonful each of cin- 
namon and cloves, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated. 
Mix all together and chop fine; take two cups of water, 
thicken with flour enough to make a stiff batter; break 
in three eggs, beaten well. Butter the tin pudding 
boiler and boil three hours. 

THANKSGIVING PUDDING 

Two-thirds of a cupful of butter, one cupful of mo- 
lasses, two cupfuls of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, 
four well beaten eggs, two pounds of raisins stoned 
and chopped, one pound of currants, a fourth of a 
pound of citron, a scant teaspoonful of salt, flour to 
make as stiff as a pound cake. Steam six hours. Serve 
with any sauce desired. 

NEW ENGLAND BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

Boil one pint of milk, add one cupful of sifted In- 
dian meal mixed with one cupful of cold milk; when 
scalded, remove from the fire, add half a cupful of 
molasses, two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, half a 
.teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of ginger, a little 



Puddings and Sauces 83 

cinnamon and one egg well beaten. Stir until very 
smooth and then add a sprinkling of candied orange 
peel, raisins and currants. Put a layer of quartered 
apples in the bottom of the pudding mould, pour in 
the mixture and steam three hours. Serve with 
whipped cream sweetened with maple syrup. 

SPONGE PUDDING 

One pint of milk heated. Mix together one-fourth 
of a cup of sugar, one-half cup of flour with a little 
of the hot milk, and return to the double boiler. Cook 
until it thickens, then add one-fourth cup of butter 
and the yolks of five eggs. Pour in cups or pudding 
dish. Set in a pan of hot water and bake twenty-five 
minutes. Serve hot, with Creamy Sauce. Stir in whites 
beaten to a froth just before baking. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD 

One pint of milk, quarter of a cup of sugar, three 
eggs, one pinch of salt. Put the milk on to boil, re- 
serving half a cup. Beat the eggs and add the cold 
milk to them. Stir the sugar in a small frying pan 
until it becomes liquid and just begins to smoke. Stir 
it into the boiling milk; then add the beaten eggs and 
cold milk, and stir constantly until the mixture be- 
gins to thicken. Set away to cool. Serve in glasses. 

COCOANUT PUDDING 

One cupful or less of grated cocoanut, one pint of 
new milk, one pint sweet cream, the whites of five 
eggs whipped light, one pinch of salt. Pour the mix- 
ture into a dish. Bake three-quarters of an hour, set- 
ting the dish in a pan of hot water. 

Sauce— One cupful of sugar, one-fourth cupful of 
butter, one level teaspoonful of flour, one pinch of salt, 
a piece of yellow rind of lemon, two teaspoonfuls of 
lemon juice. Mix and pour over these , ingredients 
a cupful of boiling water. Cook one minute. 



84 Just for Two 

RICE PUDDING 

One cup of cooked rice, one quart of rich milk, 
half a cupful of sugar, butter the size of an egg, four 
tablespoonfuls of washed and seeded raisins. Stir 
well together, pour in a well buttered baking dish, 
beat the yolks of two eggs and pour gently over the 
pudding and grate one dusting of nutmeg over, and 
put in oven to bake. Bake one hour and a half in a 
moderate oven. When done add the whipped frost- 
ing of the whites of the eggs, spread gently over the 
pudding and put back in oven just a few minutes. 
Serve in baking dish. 

RICE CUSTARD 

Break up two cups of cold cooked rice and soak in 
one pint of hot milk until soft. Beat the yolks of two 
eggs, and two rounded tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
when well mixed add the hot milk. Turn back into 
the double boiler and stir constantly until the egg is 
cooked and the custard smooth. Stir in one-fourth 
teaspoonful of salt. Turn into a dish for serving, 
and when slightly cooled spread one-half cupful of 
apple jelly or raspberry jam over the top. Beat the 
whites of the two eggs until stiff and dry, add two 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and one tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice and pile it lightly over the top. Put 
in the oven a few minutes to get a delicate brown. 
Serve cold. 

FIG PUDDING 

One pound of figs chopped fine, two cupfuls of bread 
crumbs, half a pound of suet chopped, two eggs beaten 
thoroughly, one cupful of milk, one cup of fine sugar; 
nutmeg to taste. Steam two hours. 

Sauce. One tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, one-half cup of pulverized sugar, one cup 
of hot water. Season with lemon or wine. 



Puddings and Sauces 85 

STUFFED FIGS 

Take nice large figs. Wash and soak them in warm 
water and gently press into their regular shape. Cut 
a slit in each fig and press in a teaspoonful of chopped 
English walnuts. Put a strip of muslin around each 
and catch with a few stitches to keep the nuts from 
boiling out. Put in a saucepan and cover with water 
and enough sugar to make a syrup. Boil gently until 
the figs are tender. Just before taking from the fire, 
put in a slice of lemon and stir it around three or four 
times and then take out. Cut off the muslin, put the 
figs in a glass dish, pour the syrup over them and 
set in a cool place. When cold serve with whipped 
cream piled around them. 

PRUNE PUDDING 

Stew one pound of prunes, drain off the iuice, 
stone, and chop fine. Beat the whites of four eggs 
stiff and and add gradually one cupful of sugar, beat- 
ing all the time, and then add the chopped prunes 
gradually. Beat thoroughly. Bake twenty minutes 
and serve cold with a custard made of the yolks of 
the eggs. 

BAKED QUINCES FOR DESSERT 

A delicious dessert is baked quinces with currant 
jelly and whipped cream. Cut a slice from blossom 
and stem end of each quince; put them in a dish with 
enough water to cover up to half the depth of the 
quinces. Cover the fruit with another dish and bake 
in a moderate oven until the quinces are quite soft; 
then stand them in a cool place. When ready to serve, 
put them in a glass dish. As soon as the quinces are 
out of the dish pour a little more water in, add enough 
sugar to sweeten well, boil the whole to a syrup and 
pour it over the quinces; then, when ready to serve, 
put a teaspoonful of currant or plum jelly on top of 
each quince and surround with whipped cream. 



86 Just for Two 

PEACH TAPIOCA 

Wash a cupful of tapioca through several waters 
and let soak over night. In the morning put it in a 
sauce-pan with a pint of boiling water and set on the 
stove to simmer until the tapioca is clear. Pare half 
a dozen peaches and cut into quarters, stir into the 
tapioca with half a cupful of sugar. Take from the 
fire, turn into a deep dish and stand aside to cool. 
Serve very cold with cream. 

STEAMED APPLE PUDDING 
Line a mould with slices of bread and butter, put in 
a layer of stewed apples, then another layer of bread 
and butter, and so continue until the mould is filled. 
Beat two eggs, add one pint of milk, pour over bread 
and apples. Steam one hour and serve with liquid 
sauce. 

APPLE LOAF 

Take sufficient good light bread dough for a loaf, 
knead well into it a piece of butter or lard the size 
of an egg, one cupful finely chopped apple, one-half 
teaspoonful each cinnamon and nutmeg, and two ta- 
blespoon fuls sugar. Let rise till light and bake in 
moderate oven for 45 minutes. Take out, rub well ' 
with butter, sprinkle with white sugar and cinnamon, 
let set in oven for 10 minutes, then set away to cool 
and eat with coffee for breakfast. 

APPLE LOAF WITH OATMEAL 

Pare and slice several apples. Place a layer in a 
well greased baking dish, then a layer of well cooked 
twenty minutes. Serve with milk or cream and sugar, 
oatmeal, until all is used. Place in oven and bake 

BAKED APPLE 

Remove the core, stand it in a granite pan, add a 
little water and (if apples are sour) a few spoonfuls 



Puddings and Sauces 87 

of sugar. Bake in a quick oven, basting frequently. 
We like them if a little cinnamon be sprinkled ovei 
them before baking. If desired, one-half cupful 
whipped cream may be added after they are cool. 

STEAMED APPLE 
Remove the core and steam continuously till tender. 

BAKED APPLE SAUCE 

Place a layer of sliced apple in a baking dish with a 
sprinkling of sugar, then another layer, till the dish 
is filled. Bake twenty minutes. 

FRIED APPLE 

Pare and core apples, keeping them whole. Cut into 
slices crosswise, sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon or a 
little lemon juice, set aside for a few minutes, then 
dip each piece in batter, slide into hot fat, fry on one 
side, turn and fry on the other. 

OLD-FASHIONED BROWN BETTY 

Pare and cut apples into slices. Put in a baking 
dish, with layers of bread crumbs and a sprinkling of 
sugar and cinnamon between apples. Have the top 
layer crumbs, with cinnamon dusted over the top. 
Place in oven, cover for fifteen minutes, then bake 
twenty minutes longer. Serve with cream. 

APPLE PONE 

Pare and chop finely one quart sweet apples. Pour 
a pint of boiling water into a quart of white corn meal. 
When cooked, add one pint sweet milk, stir in the 
apples, turn the mixture into a greased shallow pan, 
cover and bake in' moderate oven for at least two 
hours. This same recipe may be turned into a mould 
and steamed three hours and used as a pudding. 



88 Just for Two 

TURNOVER 

Put one pint flour into a bowl, add one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, two level teaspoonfuls baking powder, mix 
thoroughly. Then rub into the mixture one table- 
spoonful butter, and add sufficient milk to make a 
dough. Roll into a sheet half an inch thick, cut with 
biscuit cutter, put two tablespoonfuls of stewed ap- 
ples on one-half the dough, fold over the other half, 
pinch the edges together, place in baking pan, brush 
with milk and bake for twenty minutes. 

STEWED APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Pare, core and quarter four good-sized apples, put 
them into a stewpan, add four tablespoonfuls sugar, 
cover the pan, let stew. While they are stewing, make 
dough as for turnover, cut into small circles, place 
closely over top of apple, cover saucepan and stew 
slowly fifteen minutes without lifting the lid. Dish 
apples around the edge of the platter and put sauce 
in center. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Cut a short pie crust into five or six inch squares. 
In the center of each place a pared and neatly cored 
apple, filling the space with sugar and cinnamon if 
liked, also a clove. After wetting the edges of the 
pastry with white of egg, fold it over the apple, pinch 
and flute them to look well, and encase the apple com- 
pletely. Bake from thirty to forty minutes, toward 
the last brushing the top with the white of egg and 
dusting with a little sugar. Serve with hard sauce. 

STEAMED APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Using a soft biscuit dough, proceed as before, wrap- 
ping each dumpling finally in cheesecloth. Cook the 
dumpling in rapidly boiHng water for one hour, re- 



Puddings and Sauces 89 

move the cheesecloth and serve with hard sauce. Oth- 
er fruit such as peaches and apricots may be used in 
the same way. 

PUFFS 

Three eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful of flour, 
one pint of sweet milk. Bake in cups in a quick oven. 
Serve with sauce. 

DATE PUFFS 

One egg and half a cupful of sugar, two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of milk, half a tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, flour enough to make a 
thin batter, stone and cut in half one teacupful of 
dates, dredge and stir into the batter, half fill small 
earthen cups and steam twenty-five minutes. Serve 
with rich cream. 

MACAROON DAINTY 

Take as many wine glasses as you have people; 
half fill each one with powdered macaroons, cover that 
with grape jelly, and on top of that put a heaping 
tablespoonful of whipped cream. 

APPLE SAUCE 

Pare, quarter, and core five apples, put them in a 
sauce pan, pour over them one cup of boiling water 
and seven tablespoonfuls of sugar. Cover closely and 
cook three-quarters of an hour. Be careful not to 
burn, and do not stir them. Serve hot with a few 
slices of lemon on top. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 

Pick over carefully and wash two cupfuls and a half 
of fine cranberries. Put them in a sauce pan, pour 
over a heaping cup of sugar, and a cup and a half oi 
boiling water. Cover and cook slowly one hour. 



90 Just for Two 

HARD SAUCE (No. i) 

Cream half a cup of butter, add one cup of very light 
brown sugar, beat ten minutes, then add the juice of 
one lemon and the grated rind of half a lemon, and 
beat five minutes more. 

HARD SAUCE (No. 2) 

Beat until white and of the consistency of thick 
cream one cupful of pulverized sugar and half a cup- 
ful of butter; add the whipped whites of two eggs and 
beat for a few minutes longer. Flavor with one table- 
spoonful each of brandy and extract of nutmeg. 
Smooth into shape with a broad knife dipped in cold 
water. Stamp with a wooden mould and place on ice 
until needed. 

MILK SAUCE 

One cupful of sugar, one beaten egg and one table- 
spoonful of butter; pour over one cup of scalded milk. 
Put on the stove and scald again. Flavor to taste. 

CREAMY SAUCE 

One-fourth cup of butter, creamed with one-half 
cup of powdered sugar, beat light, add two table- 
spoonfuls of sherry wine and two of cream, add alter- 
nately a few drops at a time. 

SAUCE FOR BOILED RICE 

Beat the whites of three eggs with two heaping ta- 
blespoonfuls of sugar; add one teacup of rich cream 
and the juice and peel of two lemons. 

FOAMING SAUCE 

Dissolve a teacupful of sugar in a little water; bring 
to a boil, stir in a glassful of wine, then the beaten 
whites of three eggs. Serve without delay. 



Puddings and Sauces 91 

FOAM SAUCE 

Take a half cup of white sugar, one-fourth of a cup 
of butter, one tablespoonful of corn starch; mix to- 
gether and beat to a cream. Set upon the stove and 
add boiling water until it is of the right consistency. 
Flavor with lemon or anything preferred. 

CREAM SAUCE 

To the whipped white of an egg add the beaten 
yolk; then stir in, gradually, one cupful of powdered 
sugar; add half a cupful of cream, diluted with one- 
third of a cupful of milk and flavored with rose or 
vanilla. 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE 

To a pint of thick sweet cream, whipped until foamy, 
add the beaten whites of two eggs. Sweeten and 
flavor to taste. Serve very cold. 

SOUR CREAM SAUCE 

Beat hard and long one pint of sour cream, the 
juice and rind of one lemon and sugar to taste. 

CUSTARD SAUCE 

Heat one pint of milk to boiling; beat together two 
eggs and one cupful of sugar and stir into the hot 
milk. Shake the saucepan gently until the mixture 
thickens; remove from the fire, flavor to taste and 
serve hot. 

RASPBERRY SAUCE 

One-third of a cup of sugar, half a pint of raspber- 
ries, half a tablespoonful of melted butter, half a cup- 
ful of hot water. Boil all together slowly, removing 
the scum as fast as it rises; then strain through a 
sieve. This is very nice served with bread or rice 
puddings. 



92 Just for Two 

FRUIT SAUCE 

Bring slowly to a boil one cupful of hot water, two- 
thirds of a cupful of sugar, one table'spoonful of but- 
ter and one pint of fruit syrup. Skim, strain and serve 
hot with fruit roll or fruit dumplings. 

SAUCE AUX QUATRE FRUITS 

Pare a very thin rind from one lemon and one 
orange; then remove the thick white skin, cutting close 
to the pulp. Cut fruit into small dice. Pare, core and 
dice two sour apples. Put all into a saucepan, add the 
orange and lemon rind, shredded, and one cupful of 
seedless raisins. Add a little water and simmer while 
the following mixture is prepared: Stir into half a 
pint of boiling water half a teaspoonful of corn starch 
wet with a little cold water; add one cupful of sugar 
and cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Strain, add one- 
half cupful of white wine and the fruit mixture. Flavor 
with one teaspoonful of extract of almonds. Serve 
hot. 

PLUM PUDDING SAUCE 

Pour two cupfuls of water over four cupfuls of 
sugar; throw in a few cloves and several blades of 
mace tied in a muslin bag, also the thin rind of two 
lemons. Simmer for four or five hours, or until of 
a rich golden color, a shade darker than honey. Take 
from the fire, remove spices and lemon rind, add a 
cupful of sherry, and, if desired, half a cupful of brandy. 
Reheat a portion of the sauce as needed, adding a 
lump of butter and a little more wine. This sauce will 
keep all winter. 

WINE SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING 

Cream one heaping tablespoonful of butter, and one 
cup of brown sugar until foamy. Add one heaping 



Puddings and Sauces 93 

tablespoonful of flour, beat and stir in slowly one cup 
of boiling water, half a teaspoonful of salt. Boil and 
stir constantly ten minutes, then add one wine glass of 
brandy. Serve in a sauce boat. 

WINE SAUCE 

Melt one tablespoonful of grape jelly, add two table- 
spoonfuls of sherry wine, and four drops of lemon 
juice. Serve hot. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

One cup of milk, two ounces of grated chocolate, 
boil five minutes, and pour on the yolks of two eggs 
beaten with half a cup of sugar, half a cup of rich 
cream, strain, return to the fire, and stir till thick as 
honey, flavor with vanilla. 

RICE JELLY 

Wash a cupful of rice and soak it for two hours in 
a cupful of water. Have ready on the range a quart of 
boiling water and turn the rice and the water in which 
it was soaked into this. Boil for three-quarters of an 
hour, then strain through a muslin bag. When cold 
and thick serve with powdered sugar and cream. It 
is very nice and nourishing. 

TAPIOCA JELLY 

Soak a half cup of tapioca over night in a cup of 
cold water. Put into a double boiler a pint of boiling 
water and dissolve in this a tablespoonful of granu- 
lated sugar. Now turn in the soaked tapioca and cook 
until clear. Remove from the fire and add two tea- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice. Have ready two jelly glasses 
wet with cold water and turn the liquid jelly into 
these. Set in a cold place to form. Serve very cold 
with sweetened cream. 



94 Just for Two 

DISHES PREPARED WITH GELATINE 

General Rules 

If possible, soak gelatine in cold -Water until it is 
softened; the boiling water then dissolves it. It should 
be covered with a cloth while soaking. If gelatine 
must be softened quickly, pour cold water over the 
gelatine and heat over boiling water until it is dis- 
solved. If jellies are to be moulded, the moulds should 
be first wet with cold water. Jellies should be placed 
near the ice to harden, but may be hardened quickly 
by surrounding with ice water. 

PLYMOUTH ROCK SALAD 

Select three large juicy oranges, cut two of them 
into little squares, one apple chopped fine, three table- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped almonds. Mix well to- 
gether and put into moulds. Soak half a box of Ply- 
mouth Rock gelatine in one cup of orange juice and 
half a cupful of cold water, and half a cupful of sugar 
20 minutes. Add half a cup of boiling water to dis- 
solve it, then strain through a cheese cloth and pour 
into the moulds. Set on ice to harden. Serve in or- 
ange cups with two teaspoonfuls of mayonnaise dress- 
ing, on a salad plate decorated with a large lettuce 
leaf. Make the day before or early in the morning of 
the day it is to be served. This salad will keep for 
days if moulded in granite muffin tins and kept in a 
cool place, or on ice. which is much better. 

There is no gelatine on the market that comes up to 
the Plymouth Rock gelatine, and I have tried them 
all. Plymouth Rock is so perfectly clear, does not 
have to be strained, and it takes only a little time to 
dissolve. I could not keep house without it. 

Amelie Langdon. 



Puddings and Sauces 95 

LEMON JELLY 

One package gelatine, one-fourth cupful of cold 
water, two cupfuls of boilng water, one cupful of 
sugar, one-half cupful of lemon juice. Soak the gel- 
atine in cold water, add boiling water, sugar, and juice. 
Strain and put in cold place or on ice to harden. 

ORANGE JELLY 

One package gelatine, one-fourth cupful cold water, 
one-half cupful boiling water, one cupful of sugar, 
one cupful orange juice, three teaspoonfuls lemon 
juice. Soak the gelatine in cold water, add the boiling 
water, sugar and juice, strain, and put on ice to harden. 

COFFEE JELLY 

One package gelatine, one-fourth cupful of cold 
water, three cupfuls of coffee, one-half cupful of sugar. 
Soak the gelatine in cold water, add the boiling coffee, 
and sugar. Strain, set on ice to harden. 

WINE JELLY 

One package gelatine, one-fourth cupful of cold wa- 
ter, two cupfuls of boiling water, one cupful of sugar, 
three tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, one cupful of wine. 
Soak the gelatine in cold water, add the boiling water, 
sugar and lemon juice. When slightly cooled add the 
wine, strain, and set on ice to harden. 

CREAM PUDDING 

Soak one-half box of gelatine in one-half pint cold 
water ten minutes. Scald one pint of milk and add 
the gelatine and one cupful sugar. Beat the 
yolks of three eggs, stir into the milk and cook three 
minutes. When cool add one pint whipped cream 
and vanilla to taste. Turn into a mould and put on 
ice to harden. Serve with whipped cream. 



CHEESE DAINTIES 



CHEESE SOUFFLE 

Two tablespoons butter, one large tablespoon flour, 
one-half cup milk, one cup grated cheese, three eggs 
and one-half teaspoon salt, tiny dash of cayenne; put 
butter into a sauce pan and when melted but not 
browned add flour and stir smooth, add milk and sea- 
soning and cook two minutes; add the beaten yolks 
and cheese; and then set away to cool; when cold add 
whites beaten stiff; turn into a buttered baking dish; 
bake twenty-five minutes and serve immediately. 

HOT CHEESE BALL 

Whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth (very 
stiff), one-half cup of grated dairy cheese, two drops 
of Worcestershire sauce; make into balls the size of 
an English walnut, and drop into hot lard, brown and 
serve at once. 

COLD CHEESE BALLS 

Put some dairy cheese through a meat chopper, us- 
ing a fine cutter; to each cup of cheese add one-fourth 
teaspoon salt, season to taste with paprika or cayenne 
and add enough rich cream, olive oil, or creamed but- 
ter; mould into balls; English walnut meats or hick- 
ory nut meats can be added; put away to chill thor- 
oughly. To serve with salad. 

CHEESE BALLS WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Mix together two cups of grated cheese, a quarter 
of a teaspoon of salt, a few grains of cayenne pepper 



Cheese Dainties 97 

and one cup of bread crumbs; then add two eggs 
beaten stiff, shape into small balls, roll in crushed 
cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat; serve on triangles 
of buttered toast and pour over them a tomato sauce. 

CHEESE PATTIES 

Chop very finely one pound of cheese and beat thor- 
oughly into it, one at a time, three eggs and a table- 
spoon of cream. Season with pepper, salt and a little 
celery salt, butter small individual molds, fill with the 
cheese mixture and bake standing in hot water for 
twenty minutes or until firm. Turn from the molds 
and serve with a vegetable salad. 

CHEESE CUTLETS 

Put a pint of milk in a double boiler, add half a cup 
of cornstarch moistened with a little cold water, and 
cook fifteen minutes, remove from the fire and stir in 
half cup of melted butter the beaten whites of two 
eggs, one saltspoon of salt and one cup of grated Par- 
mesan cheese; when thoroughly blended, pour into a 
buttered pan to cool. Then cut into squares, sprinkle 
with cheese and chopped parsley and reheat; serve 
with celery and potato chips. 

CHEESE RELISH 

To eat with thin slices of bread and butter. Soak a 
cup of dry bread crumbs in a pint of cold milk. Beat 
into the three eggs one tablespoonful of butter and half 
a pound of grated cheese. Put into a baking dish and 
strew the top with bread crumbs and bake in the 
oven until a delicate brown and of custard like con- 
sistency. Do not have the oven too hot. 

CHEESE OMELET 

Butter pieces of bread and lay in a baking dish, 
grate cheese over bread and continue till dish is full, 



98 Just for Two 

pour over all a custard made of two eggs, one pint of 
milk, one pinch of salt; bake half an hour. 

ESCALLOPED CHEESE 

Soak till soft one cup bread crumbs in milk enough 
to cover, one cup grated cheese or more, three eggs, 
well beaten, butter size of an egg, melted, mix crumbs, 
eggs and the cheese with the butter, and pour into 
buttered baking dish; grate crumbs thickly over the 
top and bake an hour in rather hot oven, but not hot 
enough to separate eggs and milk. 



NUT DAINTIES 

SALTED ALMONDS 

Shell one pound of Jordan almonds, cover them with 
boiling water, and let them stand a few minutes un- 
til the brown skin will easily rub off. When the skins 
have been carefully removed from the almonds put 
them in a pan, dust lightly with fine salt and shake 
carefully in a moderate oven until they are crisp and 
slightly browned. Do not use fat or oil of any kind, 
as it destroys the delicate flavor of the almond. Sugar 
almonds are dusted with fine sugar and roasted in 
the same way. 

BOILED CHESTNUTS 

To eat chestnuts as a relish, or for Hallowe'en or 
gala days throw them into a kettle of boiling water 
and add one teaspoonful of salt for each pint of chest- 
nuts. Boil rapidly for twenty minutes. Drain in a 
colander, and serve smoking hot. 

CREAM CHESTNUTS 

Cream chestnuts can take the place of potatoes by 
removing the shell and the brown skin underneath. 
Throw the chestnuts into boiling water, and boil 
rapidly for twenty minutes or until they are perfectly 
tender; drain; season lightly with salt and shake them 
over the fire until they are dry and mealy. Serve plain 
or with a cream sauce. 

ROASTED CHESTNUTS 

Make a cross through the shell on the flat side of 
the chestnut. Put them into a baking pan and shake 



ioo Just for Two 

constantly over the hot fire, until the shells split, 
which will take about twenty minutes. Serve hot. 
Chestnuts become heavy if they stand too long after 
cooking. 

CHESTNUT CAKES 

Boil one quart of chestnuts. When done open the 
shells and scoop out the inside, and add a half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a half cupful of milk and two eggs 
well beaten. Mix thoroughly and then stir in six 
tablespoonfuls of pastry flour. Drop by spoonfuls 
on a lightly greased griddle. When brown on one 
side, turn and brown on other, cooking slowly. These 
cakes are very wholesome. 

USES OF NUTS 

Chopped almonds, pecan-nuts, English walnuts, pine 
nuts may be sprinkled over lettuce and covered with 
a French dressing for a dinner salad. Pine nuts may 
be stuffed with boned meats instead of the usual stuf- 
fing, and they can also be dusted slightly with salt 
and served in place of almonds or salted peanuts. 
The best filbert nut comes from England and is called 
the corylus grandus, and is very delicious, served 
with brown bread and butter, lettuce or fruit salad. 
All nuts form a suitable substitute for meat. Nuts 
are being used more in cooking than ever before, and 
no dinner seems perfect without the serving of some 
kind of roasted nuts. 

SUPERBA CHESTNUT SAUCE 

This delicious sauce can be served with chicken, 
and a variety of dishes. Shell and blanch half a 
pound of chestnuts, cook them in slightly salted wa- 
ter, just enough to cover them; let cook forty minutes, 
when tender, strain and mash. Add to the mashed 
nuts one pint of rich sweet milk, a very scant tea- 
spoonful of celery salt, a pinch of salt and pepper, a 



Nut Dainties 101 

piece of butter the size of an English walnut, with 
the grated rind of one lemon; boil up once and then 
the sauce is ready for use. 

CREAM OF CHESTNUT SOUP 

Shell and blanch one pound of chestnuts, boil until 
tender in slightly salted water. When tender add to 
one pint of rich sweet milk seasoned with half a tea- 
spoonful of celery salt, two teaspoonfuls of minced 
onion, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and the same of 
minced parsley. Cook for ten minutes. If desired, just 
before serving grate in half of a lemon rind, and add 
a half cup of whipped cream. 

SALAD SUPERBA 

Lay your platter thickly with crisp lettuce leaves, 
over these sprinkle lightly a layer of water cress, and 
the same of nuts, next cut into one-half inch cubes the 
choicest portions of a ripe watermelon, and arrange 
these closely on top, pouring over all the following 
dressing: Beat the yolks of two eggs light, add two 
tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, one teaspoonful of salt, 
and a little pepper, cook in double boiler until it thick- 
ens, then set aside to cool. When quite cold, stir in 
one cupful of whipped sweet cream and a tablespoon- 
ful of chopped olives. This salad is certainly worthy 
of its name. 

COMPANY NESSELRODE PUDDING 

One pint of blanched almonds, one pint of blanched 
chestnuts, one pint of grated pineapple, half a pound 
of candied fruit (figs and dates may be substituted), 
one pint of cream, yolks of ten eggs, one tablespoon- 
ful of lemon, grape juice or vanilla flavoring, one pint 
of water, the same of sugar. Blanch and then boil 
your chestnuts for half an hour, put them through 
the nut mill, together with your almonds. Boil wa- 



102 Just for Two 

ter, sugar, and pineapple together for twenty minutes, 
then stir into this your beaten eggs, stir until it thick- 
ens, then remove from the fire, set inside a basin of 
cold water and beat for ten minutes. Finally add 
your nuts and chopped fruit, and freeze in your ice 
cream freezer. This delicious pudding can be de- 
creased but it is best to serve for company only, and 
on gala days. The vegetarians claim this their favor- 
ite pudding. 

WALNUT DAINTY 

Wash two large bright red apples and core them. 
Chop one teacupful of English walnut meats fine; mix 
with sugar, and fill the apples with the nut meats. 
Set in a baking dish; pour one cupful of hot water 
round the apples, and bake till done but not broken. 
Take out of the oven when done and be careful not to 
break the apples when removing them from the dish 
onto a serving plate. Add to the syrup in the baking 
dish a half teaspoonful of butter, a pinch of salt, and 
a few gratings of nut meg or cinnamon, stir till well 
mixed and hot. Pour this around the. apples and dust 
them on top with powdered sugar. 

ROYAL NUT MACARONI 

Boil half a pound of macaroni in slightly salted 
water till tender, then drain in a colander, then mince 
in chopping dish but not too finely. Line the buttered 
baking dish with grated triscuit, then a layer of 
minced hickory nuts, then a layer of macaroni; repeat 
this until the dish is filled. It takes half a pound of 
hickory nuts. To half a pint of cream add a tiny 
pinch of cayenne, a pinch of salt, half a teaspoonful 
of butter, boil up and pour over the macaroni and 
place in a moderate oven and bake till it is slightly 
browned on top. Serve hot. 



SALADS 



SALAD SUGGESTIONS 

Salads may be served in summer for the morning 
meal, when appetites are fitful. If so, make it as sim- 
ple as possible, using the most tender and crisp leaves 
of salad plants or subacid fruits, with simple French 
dressing. This may apply to a dinner, a mid-day lunch- 
eon. If so, it should be made of more nourishing ma- 
terials, meat or fish, or meat and vegetables or fruits 
and nuts. 

PLYMOUTH ROCK TOMATO SALAD 

This is a most delicious salad, as well as a very 
attractive one. 

Select a can of the best brand tomatoes. Take the 
juice and in it soak half a box of Plymouth Rock gel- 
atine for twenty minutes, then pour in two cups of 
boiling water to dissolve it and one cup of sugar. Se- 
lect from the can two solid tomatoes, put into the 
mould; slice very thinly half a green pepper and a little 
parsley. Pour over the gelatine and set on ice till 
ready for serving. Serve on a salad plate garnished 
with large lettuce leaves or parsley and three bright 
red radish roses. On top of the salad put two tea- 
spoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing. This salad should 
be made the day before it is to be served. 

I find the muffin tins make the best moulds for in- 
dividual use, as it always makes an attractive and ap- 
petizing looking salad. 



104 J usi f or Two 

TOMATO SALAD (No.i) 

Take two firm, ripe tomatoes and pare without scald- 
ing, with a sharp knife. Take out part of the core, and 
put them on a bed of lettuce leaves. Fill the hollow 
with the dressing; put in the ice box fifteen minutes be- 
fore serving. 

TOMATO SALAD (No. 2) 

Select two tomatoes of similar size, plunge into boil- 
ing water. Remove and cut out a circular piece around 
the stem end of each. Remove the skin, and set aside 
on ice to chill. When ready to serve, dispose each to- 
mato on a lettuce leaf seasoned with French dressing. 
Fill each cavity with a spoonful of finely chopped nut 
meats and fruit and mayonnaise dressing, with a large 
candied cherry on top. 

TOMATO SALAD WITH NUTS 

Select medium-sized red tomatoes, place them on let- 
tuce leaves on bread and butter plates. Scoop out the 
stem end of the tomato until a small cup is formed. 
Just before serving fill it with roasted peanuts and 
pour over the nuts and tomato a salad dressing made 
in the following way: 

Dressing. — One teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful 
of mustard, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, yolks of two 
eggs, eight tablespoonfuls of sweet cream. Mix well 
together, then add two-thirds of a cupful of vinegar and 
cook over boiling water until done, stirring all the time. 
Do not beat the yolks, but stir with the mustard, sugar 
and cream. The salad should not be put together until 
just before serving, as it spoils the flavor. Properly 
made, it is one of the prettiest salads imaginable. 

TOMATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD 

For this salad have ready a head of lettuce, four me- 
dium-sized tomatoes and two cucumbers. Pull the let- 



Salads 105 

tuce leaves apart and arrange them in a salad dish. 
Peel the tomatoes, slice them in thin slices and place 
them on the lettuce leaves. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Now peel and slice the cucumber and arrange 
the slices in the form of a pyramid upon the slices of 
tomato. Peel the other cucumber and lay thin slices 
of it around the edge of the tomato for a garnish. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and pour over it any pre- 
ferred dressing. Scatter chopped parsley over the top. 

TOMATO AND SHRIMP SALAD 

Peel large, smooth tomatoes and cut in half and 
scoop out the seeds, leaving only the shell, take a can 
of shrimps and drain them properly and set on ice till 
thoroughly cooled; the, tomatoes the same; mix the 
shrimps and mayonnaise dressing and fill the shells; 
place each on a crisp lettuce leaf and serve with more 
of the dressing. 

A DELICIOUS SALAD 

Every woman wants a dainty dish at her finger ends 
to help along the meal when guests arrive unexpected- 
ly, or the palate craves something especially delicious. 
A salad newly designed by a New York chef, is a dish 
fit to set before a queen. 

There are salads and salads, but if you have not tast- 
ed tomatoes prepared after the latest plan and served 
with walnuts, you have not realized the full possibil- 
ities of the salad dish. Here is the scheme: 

Take ripe, but firm, tomatoes. Pour hot water upon 
them to loosen the skins. Remove them and peel care- 
fully. Now cut them in small squares and press through 
a sieve. Put them in the ice chest and freeze. Shell 
some English walnuts, being careful to remove every 
trace of hard substance or husk. Mash these, folded 
in a clean cloth, with a rolling pin. 

When the tomatoes are thoroughly frozen, serve them 



106 Just for Two 

on crisp white lettuce leaves — having individual dishes, 
of course — and cover with mayonnaise. Over each dish 
sprinkle a thimbleful of the crushed walnuts. 

APPLE SALAD (No. i) 

Line a salad bowl with watercress; cut into neat dice 
half to three-quarters of a pound of cold veal or lean 
fresh pork, add to the cress; also add two raw tart 
apples cut small, season with salt and pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of chopped pickle and a tablespoonful each 
of oil and vinegar. Mix and cover with a mask of salad 
dressing. 

APPLE SALAD (No. 2) 

Chop fine a large juicy apple. Add four stalks of 
crisp white celery chopped fine, a pinch of salt and 
one of mustard and pepper. Stir and cover closely. 
Put in a cool place for twenty-five minutes. Before 
serving pour over the following dressing: Stir to- 
gether the yolk of one egg, a pinch of salt, and one 
of sugar, a dusting of cayenne pepper, then add drop 
by drop two teaspoonfuls of olive oil. 

APPLE NUT SALAD 

Boil and peel some French chestnuts, cut in small 
pieces, mix with celery, and tart apples cut in slender 
strips. Pour over the salad a mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve on lettuce leaves. 

WALDORF (APPLE AND CELERY SALAD) 

Use bright red or green apples. Jonathans or North- 
ern Spies are best. Cut the stem end off, saving it. 
Scoop out the apple pulp. Mix with one-third its 
bulk in chopped celery, and salad dressing number 
one, which has had cream added to it. Return this 
apple pulp and celery and dressing to the shell of ap- 
ple. Replace the stem top. Serve the apple, very cold, 
on a lettuce leaf. 



Salads 107 

WATERCRESS AND APPLES 

Prepare the watercress the same as lettuce, letting 
it become crisp in cold water, then drying it thor- 
oughly. Mix it with mayonnaise salad dressing. A 
few thin slices of sour apple with watercress make a 
good salad to serve with ducks. 

A chopped hard-boiled egg sprinkled over the top of 
water cress is a good garnish, and improves the salad. 

WATER CRESS SALAD 

Have equal quantities of cress, pepper grass, and 
sorrel. Serve with French dressing and garnish with 
nasturtium blossoms. 

LETTUCE SALAD 

Select tender, crisp head lettuce. Wash with care 
in cold water the inner leaves and lay in a clean dry 
towel to absorb the moisture. Serve with French 
dressing and accompany with radishes. 

CELERY SALAD WITH NUTS 

Use equal parts of celery and English walnuts and 
serve on lettuce leaves. When ready to serve pour 
over the following dressing: Yolks of two eggs beaten 
lightly, one-half teaspoonful each of mustard and salt, 
beating constantly, four tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter, six tablespoonfuls of vinegar; cook in a double 
kettle until it thickens. When removed from the fire 
add the well-beaten whites. Before serving add a cup 
of whipped cream. 

A HANDSOME SUPPER SALAD 

One cup of Malaga grapes, three bananas, three or- 
anges, one cup of English walnut kernels, one bunch 



108 Just for Two 

of celery, one head of lettuce, mayonnaise dressing. 
This salad must be prepared by the housekeeper her- 
self, as it is such a dainty dish that a hireling would be 
apt to slight it and make a failure of what might be 
otherwise a temptation to the most fastidious gourmet. 
The only tedious part of the operation is the skinning 
the grapes. This done, set them aside in a cold place 
while you make ready the other ingredients. Peel the 
oranges, remove the white inner skin, separate the fruit 
into lobes, each of which cut in half, and remove the 
seeds. Peel and slice the bananas, cut each nut kernel 
in half, and cut the celery into half-inch pieces. Line 
a salad bowl with lettuce. Mix carefully together the 
grapes, nuts, oranges, bananas and celery; heap them 
in the center of the bowl and pour the mayonnaise 
over them. 

FRUIT SALAD 

One orange, two bananas, four slices of chopped 
pineapple, one handful of Malaga grapes, half a dozen 
candied cherries chopped fine and one dozen English 
walnuts minced. Lay in a salad dish. 

Dressing. — Stir together one teaspoonful of mustard, 
one of butter, a tiny pinch of salt and pepper. Heat 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, beat into this the yolk 
of two eggs; then add the above ingredients, cook un- 
til stiff and set aside till cold. Just before serving add 
one teacupful of whipped cream and pour over the 
fruit. 

FRUIT SALAD WITH CHERRIES 

Take a half cupful of water, and one cupful of sugar, 
add the juice of a lemon, liquor glass full of maraschino, 
half fill dainty glasses with stoned and sliced cherries, 
strawberries or bananas; pour over each glass a little 
syrup; mix an equal quantity syrup and lemon jelly and 
pour into glasses; this can also be moulded. 



Salads 109 

ORANGE SALAD 

Use for this salad sour oranges; if these cannot be 
obtained, strain over sweet oranges after they are sliced 
a little lemon juice. Cut the oranges in thick slices, 
remove the seeds carefully, arrange them in rows, and 
turn over them salad dressing. Serve with game. 

Grape fruit may be used the same way, and walnut 
meats used with either. 

ORANGE AND WALNUT ■ SALAD 

Peel four oranges, stripping off all the inner white 
skin, and put them on ice for several hours before di- 
viding them into lobes, and each lobe in three pieces. 
Crack twenty English walnuts, throw them into boiling 
water and let them lie there three minutes, drain, and 
skin them and break into small bits. Line a salad bowl 
with lettuce; arrange the oranges and nuts in alternate 
layers upon this, covering each layer with a good salad 
dressing. Serve at once. 

STRAWBERRY SALAD 

Choose the heart leaves of head lettuce, heap a few 
strawberries on each and dust them lightly with pow- 
dered sugar; lay a teaspoonful of mayonnaise on each 
portion and serve cut lemons with it; delicious for 
lunch. 

GRAPE FRUIT SERVED IN LATEST CHIC 

The delicious new way to serve grape fruit makes 
it doubly delightful eating. The old fashion of digging 
it out with a spoon was never graceful, and if a woman 
wore a pretty gown she was kept on the jump with 
anxiety. One little jogging, one unfortunate turn of 
the hand, and there was the villainous juice cavorting 
over everything. 



i io Just for Two 

With the new serving, the instrument isn't a spoon 
at all. It's a fork — an oyster fork, which cleverly 
lifts a plug of the fruit from the rind, and conveys it 
to the mouth without unlovely juiciness. 

Oscar, chef of the Waldorf, has been giving away 
the secret of preparing it in this manner. His recipe 
is as follows: 

Cut your fruit first in halves. Then with a sharp 
knife cut a circle around the core. Take the seeds out 
and the fibres, too, which join the sections together. 
Now cut away each section from the fibre which holds 
it in place. Lift each plug to see that it is entirely 
free. 

Remove the skin from Malaga grapes, halve them and 
place these halves about the outer edge of each plug. 
The fruit is now to be laid away in the ice-chest until 
thoroughly chilled. It is served with a wreath of sml- 
lax or other dainty vine, the circle in the center being 
filled with shaved ice. A little diluted rum or wine 
sprinkled over it two hours before serving adds a deli- 
cious nuance of flavor. 

EGG SALAD 

Take the number of eggs required and boil just 
twenty minutes. When cold, shell and remove the 
whites carefully from the yolks; chop the whites, and 
leave the yolks whole. Serve on lettuce leaves with a 
boiled dressing, and small balls of cottage cheese. 

MARGUERITE SALAD 

Take just as many hard-boiled eggs as there are 
persons to be served. Remove the yolks and make 
them fine with a perforated spoon, add salt and pep- 
per, a pinch of mustard and a little melted butter. Mix 
thoroughly. Lay a lettuce leaf on a salad plate and ar- 
range the yolk on it for the center of the "Marguerite." 
Chop the whites and scatter around the edge. Pour 
over it a mayonnaise dressing. 



Salads 1 1 1 

BEAN SALAD 

Put into a salad bowl half a dozen leaves of crisp 
lettuce, add a cupful each of baked beans and tongue, 
or ox palate, cut into dice, and two hard-boiled eggs 
cut not too fine; season with a teaspoonful of chop- 
ped parsley, salt, white pepper and two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar; mix together, arrange neatly and mask 
with a top layer of salad dressing. 

BEET AND CHEESE SALAD 

Make cottage cheese into little balls, stick on either 
side half English walnut. Use the small strawberry 
beets that are put up in three-pound cans, slice, and 
you can easily cut them into heart shape. Use two 
cheese balls and three beet hearts on lettuce leaf. Keep 
on ice until just before time to serve, add French dress- 
ing just before serving. This is such a simple salad 
and so tasty that you will be sure to like it. 

BEET AND SPANISH ONION SALAD 

Gut into slices, then into strips, two baked beets, slice 
a medium-sized Spanish onion, and quarter and sep- 
arate the sections. If convenient add as much table 
celery as you have onion, half a teaspoonful of capers 
or chopped pickles, salt and white pepper; mix, then 
over all add salad dressing. 

POTATO SALAD 

Pare three large cold boiled potatoes, and slice them. 
One small onion minced. One hard boiled egg sliced. 
Fill the salad bowl with alternate layers of potatoes 
and eggs, sprinkle each layer with salt, and add onion 
before pouring on the dressing, pour over the salad 
one-half cup of hot vinegar and garnish with celery. 
If preferred, lettuce dressing can take the place of 
the hot vinegar. 



112 J list for Tzvo 

COLD POTATO SALAD 

Chop cold boiled potatoes fine, with enough raw on- 
ions to season nicely; make a dressing as for lettuce 
salad, and pour over it. 

HOT POTATO SALAD WITH BACON DRESSING 

Take one-quarter of a pound of very fat bacon, freed 
from rind and bone, and cut in slices, then in dice. Put 
it in a frying pan and heat slowly until the fat is well 
drawn out and the dice golden brown. Skim out the 
bacon, add one tablespoonful of onion, cut fine — more 
if the onion flavor is liked — and cook slowly until col- 
ored. Add one-half as much vinegar as there is fat 
in the pan, a dash of Cayenne and one-half as much 
good stock as there is vinegar. Have ready about 
three cupfuls of freshly cooked, diced potato, which 
have been kept hot in a steamer; turn them into the 
frying pan and stir carefully through, that they may 
absorb the dressing evenly. Add the diced bacon and 
turn at once on a heated platter, garnishing with water- 
cress. 

GERMAN POTATO SALAD 

Pare six or eight large potatoes, and boil till done, 
and slice thin while hot; peel and cut up three large on- 
ions into small bits and mix with the potatoes. Cut up 
some breakfast bacon into small bits, sufficient to fill 
a teacup and fry it a light brown; remove the meat, 
and into the grease stir three tablespoonfuls of vine- 
gar, making a sour gravy, which with the bacon pour 
over the potato and onion; mix lightly. To be eaten 
when hot. 

POTATO AND CUCUMBER SALAD 

Arrange in a salad bowl layers of thinly sliced cold 
boiled potatoes, cucumbers, celery and hard-boiled 



Salads 113 

eggs. Reserve one egg to garnish the top. Pour over 
the vegetables a mixture of two tablespoonfuls of melt- 
ed butter, half a tablespoonful of vinegar, half a salt- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and a few drops of 
onion juice. Let it stand for an hour or two in a cold 
place, then pour over it a boiled dressing. Garnish 
with celery leaves. 

CUCUMBER SALAD 

The fresher the cucumbers are and the quicker they 
are served after being cut, the better; always have 
them as cold as possible. They need a good deal of 
seasoning, therefore add a little salt, pepper and salad 
dressing, slightly thinned out with vinegar. Mix, set 
in the ice-box ten minutes and serve. 

For breakfast the cucumbers may be placed on a leaf 
bed of cress and garnished with a circle of crisp rad- 
ishes. 

CUCUMBER AND ONION SALAD 

Pare cucumbers and lay in ice water one hour; do 
the same with onions in another bowl. Then slice them 
in the proportion of one onion to three large cucum- 
bers; arrange in a salad bowl and season with vinegar, 
salt and pepper. 

CUCUMBER SALAD TO SERVE WITH FISH 

Peel the cucumbers, and place them in cold water to 
become crisp. Do not use salt in the water, as is 
sometimes recommended, as it wilts and makes them 
indigestible. Cut the cucumbers in two lengthwise, 
and lay them, with the flat side down, on the dish on 
which they are to be served. Slice them without de- 
stroying their shape, and pour on them salad dressing. 

A SPRING SALAD 

Pick over, trim, wash and cook one-half peck of spin- 
ach in the inner vessel of a double boiler until tender. 



114 Just f or Two 

Drain it dry and chop it very fine. Season with salt, 
paprika, a dash of nutmeg, lemon juice and melted 
butter. Butter some cups and line them with the spin- 
ach, leaving a small round hole in the center. Fill this 
with cold boiled eggs, chopped and well seasoned. 
Pack the mixture in firmly. Put upon the ice and when 
very cold turn out upon crisp lettuce and serve with 
a good salad dressing. 

VIRGINIA SALAD 

Choose a large head of curly lettuce, open and press 
apart and remove with a sharp knife the inner leaves. 
Wash and let it serve as a case or mould from which 
to serve the following salad. Chop cabbage fine and mix 
with a cooked dressing made as follows: Mix until 
smooth, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
flour, fifteen drops onion oil, one-half cup hot vinegar. 
Beat with wooden spoon, cook ten minutes. Pour on 
one egg beaten with one-half teaspoonful each salt, 
sugar, mustard, and a pinch of cayenne. Cook three 
minutes and cool. Thin at time of serving with one 
cup of thick sour cream. 

SALMON SALAD 

One small can of salmon, three bunches of celery 
chopped fine, and mixed with the salmon. 

Dressing. — A small teaspoonful of mustard, two ta- 
blespoonfuls of vinegar, yolks of two eggs, salt and 
cayenne pepper to taste. Mix, and .add to the salmon 
and celery. Serve in a salad dish garnished with let- 
tuce. 

CLAM SALAD 

Boil two dozen medium clams in a pint of water 
ten minutes only; use the broth for a soup by whisk- 
ing 'into it a half pint of warm milk containing a 
whisked egg; heat, but do not boil, and serve. 



Salads 115 

Chop the clams, not too fine, put them into a salad 
bowl with one-third each of potato and cold fish; let- 
tuce or watercress may or may not be used. Cover 
with salad dressing. Hard-boiled eggs may be used 
if desired. 

LOBSTER SALAD 

Cut the boiled lobster into one-inch pieces or larger. 
Marinate it, and keep in a cool place until ready to 
serve; then mix with it lightly a little mayonnaise salad 
dressing. Place it in the salad bowl, smooth the top, 
leaving it high in the center. Mask it with a thick 
covering of salad dressing. Sprinkle over it the pow- 
dered coral of the lobster. Place on top the heart of a 
head of lettuce, and around the salad a thick border 
of crisp lettuce leaves, carefully selected. 

Shad roe, canned salmon, or any firm, white fish, mix- 
ed with mayonnaise salad dressing, and garnished with 
lettuce, may be served as a salad. 

OYSTER SALAD 

Dip eight medium sized oysters in cracker crumbs, 
and fry a delicate brown in a teaspoonful of hot but- 
ter. Lay on a plate and set in ice box to cool, then 
cut them into half inch pieces and mix with seven ta- 
blespoonfuls of chopped crisp celery. Put into salad 
bowl and serve with the following dressing. 

One-fourth of a cupful of sour whipped cream. Beat 
the yolk of one egg with a pinch of mustard, one of 
salt, and one of cayenne pepper and sugar. Add one 
tablespoonful of olive oil, then the whipped cream, and 
one tablespoonful of lemon juice. Pour over the 
salad and serve. 

SHRIMP SALAD 

When canned shrimps are used, they should be re- 
moved from the tin and thoroughly washed in cold 
water. Shrimps, tomatoes, hard-boiled eggs and wa- 



n6 Just for Two 

tercress, with salad dressing, form a surprisingly good 
salad in warm weather. 

CHEESE SALAD 

Small cakes of cottage cheese. Serve in a bed of 
shredded lettuce. Cover with thick salad dressing and 
garnish with crescent olives. 

BIRD'S NEST SALAD 

An exceptionally pretty salad, looking almost too 
dainty to eat, was furnished lately by a cooking school 
pupil for her mother's dinner party. It was down in 
the menu as a "bird's nest salad," and the deprecatory 
remark offered by one of the invited guests that "it 
seemed almost like robbing a bird's nest," was most 
natural. The white heart leaves of lettuce were used 
to simulate the nests, several of them being curled about 
to make the little hollow. In each of these were placed 
five little speckled eggs made of cream cheese rolled 
into shape, then sprinkled with fine chopped parsley. 
The French dressing, which was "to animate the 
whole," in Sidney Smith's trenchant words, was cun- 
ningly hidden away under the leaves of the dainty 
nests. 

NARRAGANSETT SALAD 

Take equal parts of hickory nuts, walnuts and al- 
monds, blanching the latter, and throwing the walnut 
meats for ten minutes in water in which onions are 
boiling. Add tiny bits of celery and pour over a good 
cream salad dressing. Put a bit of sweet whipped 
cream on top and garnish with round slices cut from 
a long radish. Do not peel, as the dainty pink rim adds 
much to the appearance. 

CHICKEN SALAD 

There is only one secret about this salad. Do not 
use tough, old fowl, nor use the meat too dry. When 



Salads 117 

possible let the fowl stand in the water in which it was 
cooked until cold; this will make it sufficiently moist. 
When cold roast poultry is used, cut it up and moisten 
slightly with chicken broth, or water containing a lit- 
tle vinegar, pepper and salt. 

Mix equal quantities of cut-up chicken and celery 
with a few spoonfuls of salad dressing, arrange neatly 
in a bowl, and mask with more of the dressing. Dec- 
orate with eggs, olives and cucumber pickle. Use 
lettuce, watercress, chickory, wild chickweed, dande- 
lion, or any other tender salad green when celery is 
scarce. 

A NOVEL SALAD DISH 

The hostess of today is like the Athenian, always 
striving after some new thing. Many have tried filling 
one side of an orange with whipped cream, and here is 
a pretty, inexpensive way to serve salad. Take large 
and long cucumbers, cut them once through the middle, 
lengthwise, scrape out the inside and one has a pretty 
individual green boat in which to serve the salad. This 
is particularly pretty with lobster or shrimp salad on 
account of the contrast in color. Of course just half 
as many cucumbers as guests are required, as one cu- 
cumber makes two boats. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING (No. 1) 

Yolk of one egg. Beat and add half a teaspoonful 
of mustard dissolved in the juice of one lemon and a 
teaspoonful of vinegar, large pinch of salt and a dust 
of pepper. Pour in oil gradually until you have the 
desired amount. 

COOKED MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Heat five tablespoonfuls of vinegar over boiling wa- 
ter. Beat two eggs until light with one tablespoonful 
of vinegar. In a bowl mix one-half cup of butter, one- 



n8 Just for Two 

fourth cup of sugar. Add one tablespoonful of mus- 
tard, a pinch of salt, a dash of red pepper. To the 
heated mixture add eggs, stirring constantly until thick, 
then remove from the fire. If too thick, add a little 
cream. This will keep for days, if kept in a cool place 
or on ice. 

BOILED DRESSING 

To the beaten yolks of two eggs add a cupful of 
vinegar and cook over hot water until thick. Put in a 
bowl one tablespoonful of melted butter, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, one saltspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of mustard and a pinch of cayenne. Mix 
thoroughly together and pour over the egg and vine- 
gar. If put together in this way there will be no rank 
flavor as there often is in other dressings. 

CREAM DRESSING (No. i) 

One level teaspoonful flour, one level tablespoonful 
sugar, one level teaspoonful salt, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful white pepper, one speck red pepper, yolks of two 
eggs. Mix these together and pour over it seven table- 
spoonfuls of hot vinegar. Stir well until thick. Add 
one large tablespoonful of butter and when it is well 
mixed in, take the mixture from the fire. Cool quickly, 
this may be kept a week or two. When ready to use, 
mix it with one-third its bulk in rich cream, sweet or 
sour. Whip the cream. 

CREAM DRESSING (No. 2). 
Two tablespoonfuls of whipped sweet cream, two of 
sugar and four of vinegar; beat well and pour over the 
cabbage, previously cut very fine and seasoned with 
salt. 

FRENCH SALAD DRESSING 

Mix one saltspoonful of pepper with one of salt; add 
three tablespoonfuls of olive oil and one even table- 



Salads 119 

spoonful of onion scraped fine; then one tablespoonful 
of vinegar; when well mixed, pour the mixture over 
your salad and stir all till well mingled. 

The merit of a salad is that it should be cool, fresh 
and crisp. For vegetables use only the delicate white 
stalks of celery, the small heart-leaves of lettuce, or 
tenderest stalks and leaves of the white cabbage. Keep 
the vegetable portions crisp and fresh until the time for 
serving, when add the meat. For chicken and fish 
salads use the mayonnaise dressing. For simple veg- 
etable salads the French dressing is most appropriate, 
using onion rather than garlic. 



SANDWICHES 

Bread for sandwiches should not be more than twen- 
ty-four hours old, and cut thin, the crust should all 
be neatly cut away and the butter creamed and evenly 
spread. If nuts are used they should be chopped fine, 
salted and mixed with butter, or with enough cream 
salad dressing to moisten. 

When preparing sandwiches for a large company it is 
sometimes necessary to make them several hours in ad- 
vance of the serving. If a napkin is wrung out of hot 
water and wrapped around the sandwiches, which 
should then be placed in a cool room, they will keep as 
fresh and moist as though just spread. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Cut white bread in thin slices, cutting away all 
crusts. Place on a slice a fine tender lettuce leaf and 
spread with salad dressing; cover over with another 
slice and press gently together. Nasturtium leaves or 
flowers and a bit of mustard or the yolk of hard-boiled 
egg may be added if desired. 

WATER CRESS SANDWICHES 

Wash well some water cress and dry them in a clean 
white cloth, pressing out every bit of the moisture. 
Then mix, with the cress hard boiled eggs chopped fine, 
season with salt and pepper to taste. Cut thin slices 
of bread and cut away the crust. Cut the cress into 
small pieces, removing the stems. Place the cress be- 
tween each slice of bread and butter, with a few drops 
of lemon juice on each. Press down the slices, and 
serve. 



Sandwiches 121 

CELERY SANDWICHES 

Chop fine three full-size stalks of celery; add to this 
enough salad dressing to make a thick paste; spread 
evenly over thin slices of white, graham, rye, or Bos- 
ton brown bread; form sandwiches and cut these into 
squares or fingers. 

CUCUMBER SANDWICHES 

These are quite new. Slice medium sized cucumbers 
very thin, and let them stand in cold salt and water 
one-half hour, then drain off and pour over white wine, 
or tarragon vinegar, with a few drops of lemon juice, 
let stand one hour, lay the cucumber slices upon small 
rounds of brown bread, and spread with butter. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Mince up fine half a cupful of boiled chicken, put it 
into a saucepan with gravy, or cream enough to soften 
it. Add a teaspoonful of butter, a tiny pinch of salt and 
one of pepper. Work it very smooth while it is heat- 
ing until it looks almost like paste. Then spread it on 
a plate to cool. Spread it between slices of buttered 
bread and crisp lettuce leaves. Press both sides to- 
gether. 

TOASTED SANDWICHES 

Use one part of chicken or veal and one part of cold 
tongue; to one cupful of meat when chopped add one 
tablespoonful of melted butter, one teaspoonful of es- 
sence of anchovy, one-half teaspoonful of lemon juice. 
Cut bread and butter it; toast each slice a delicate 
brown; spread with the above mixture while hot and 
put together. To be eaten cold. 

PEANUT SANDWICHES 

Pound peanuts to a paste in a mortar and season with 
salt and spread between thin slices of bread. 



122 Just for Two 

NUT SANDWICHES 

Mix half a cupful of chopped nuts with one table- 
spoonful of mayonnaise and spread on thin slices of 
entire wheat bread trimmed and cut into fancy shapes. 
Almonds, English walnuts, or peanuts may be used sep- 
arately or in combination, and chopped dates may be 
added to the nuts. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES 

This is a unique way of serving olives at teas and 
receptions. Cut the flesh from the stones of half a 
dozen queen olives, chop it fine, add to it a scant table- 
spoonful of salad dressing. Mix and spread on thin 
slices of buttered bread; form sandwiches and cut 
these into squares or fingers. Stuffed olives are very 
appetizing served this way. 

RUSSIAN SANDWICHES 

Cut bread into very thin slices, then into squares. 
After buttering, spread a layer of fresh Neuchatel 
cheese on each piece. Chop seeded olives very fine 
and mix with a mayonnaise dressing, then add a layer 
of this over the cheese. Press both sides of the sand- 
wiches together. Serve on a plate garnished with let- 
tuce leaves. 

NUT SANDWICH WITH CHEESE 

One-half cupful walnuts chopped fine, cream cheese 
enough worked with them to form a smooth paste. 
Soften the paste with cream until it will spread on 
thin slices of bread. 

DELICIOUS SANDWICHES 

Three ounces of cream cheese chopped fine, mix with 
one teaspoonful butter, one teaspoonful of anchovy, 



Sandwiches 123 

add a few chopped nuts (pecans or walnuts), season 
to taste, salt and white pepper. Cut thin slices of 
white bread and remove the crust, spreading the above 
mixture between the slices; garnish with water cress. 

CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Grate dry cheese and sprinkle on buttered bread; add 
a very light sprinkling of cayenne pepper if desired. 

HAM SANDWICHES 

Mince fine three or four small slices of boiled ham, 
mix with mayonnaise dressing, chop two green pickles 
fine. Cut bread into very thin slices, butter, lay on a 
crisp lettuce leaf, and then put in the filling. Press 
both sides of the sandwiches together. 

CLUB SANDWICHES 

Lay between thin slices of hot buttered toast, a thin 
slice of boiled ham, then a slice of cold chicken and 
lastly a crisp lettuce leaf with mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve hot. 

EGG SANDWICHES 

Hard boil four eggs; be sure the eggs are nice and 
fresh. When cold, cut them into thin slices and lay 
them between very thin slices of bread and butter; sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and a sprinkling of nutmeg. 

OYSTER SANDWICHES 

Chop fine half a teacupful of raw oysters; add salt 
and pepper to taste and a dash of cayenne pepper. Put 
in a saucepan with two teaspoonfuls of butter and three 
teaspoonfuls of bread-crumbs. Heat until steaming and 
then add half a teacupful of thick cream into which has 
been beaten the yolk of an egg. Stir until the mixture 
thickens. Remove from the fire and add five drops of 



124 Just for Two 

lemon juice. When cold, spread between buttered 
sandwich bread. 

LOBSTER SANDWICHES 

Mix the coral of the lobster with a little butter and 
spread on thin slices of wheat bread. Dust with a lit- 
tle paprika. Have half a cup of the lobster meat chop- 
ped rather fine and mix with one tablespoonful of may- 
onnaise. Put this between the buttered slices with a 
lettuce leaf on each side. Press the slices together. 
Serve on a small meat platter, garnished with lettuce 
and olives. 

BANANA SANDWICHES 

Select one large very ripe banana, peel and slice very 
thin and evenly. Sprinkle with one tablespoonful of 
lemon juice. Add a little honey to white cream cheese 
and spread on dainty rounds of bread instead of but- 
ter. Place a layer of the sliced bananas between the 
two slices. Preserved ginger and orange peel minced 
fine and mixed with a little sweet cream may be used 
for filling. 

DILL SANDWICHES 

Slice thin and spread with butter rye bread; on one- 
half of bread spread thin chips of cold chicken, or 
turkey, cover this with dill pickles, sliced very thin, 
then cover with the other slice of bread, and butter; 
press together; good for picnics and outings. 

GRAHAM BREAD STRIPS 

Take thin slices of graham bread and spread lightly 
with butter and then with prepared mustard, then 
grated cheese; press slices of bread firmly together, 
cut in inch-wide strips, brown in the oven. To be eaten 
with salads. 



Sandwiches 125 

DAINTY SANDWICHES 

A sandwich which enjoys great vogue at New York 
teas is easily made. Butter three slices of white bread 
and two of graham. Lay light then dark on top of 
one another alternately and press carefully together, 
then cut like layer cake in pieces half an inch wide. 

BOSTON SANDWICHES 

Cut thin slices of Boston brown bread, in rounds, or 
any odd shapes, spread them lightly with cream or 
Neufchatel cheese, take a corresponding number of 
slices and spread with olives and pimentos chopped 
and mixed with salad dressing; press the slices together 
with a leaf of crisp white lettuce between each sand- 
wich. 

TO MAKE BUTTERS FOR SANDWICHES 

Rub the butter to a cream, blending any flavor de- 
sired, such as anchovy, caviare, sardine, lobster, 
cheese, parsley, cress, chives, horseradish, any of which 
may be used. 



GARNISHES 



For oysters, sardines, fish, roast veal or salads, lemon 
slices make a desirable garnish. For cold meats, chops 
and cutlet, parsley or celery tops. 

For decorating fowl nothing better than watercress 
can be, used. Balls made of boiled rice with jelly on 
each are attractive on a plate of cold meat. 

In garnishing cold corned beef sliced gherkins and 
large pickles sliced make an attractive garnish. For 
game, cold tongue, fried oysters or roast veal, currant 
jelly is used as garnish. 

For oysters, sardines, fish, roast veal or salads, lemon 
slices make a desirable garnish. For cold meats, 
chops, and cutlets, parsley, celery tops, or watercress, 
or sliced green peppers. 

If you wish to serve peas as an entree, cut out with 
a cookie cutter a round of bread from an ordinary sized 
slice of bread, then two rings with a doughnut cutter. 
Dip them in melted butter and toast delicately brown 
in the oven. Fill the cavities with peas cooked in a 
delicate cream sauce. 

For salads and jelly, orange cups, and oranges cut in 
the shape of daisies make a pretty garnish. 

A pretty garnish for a dish of hash or fish or salad, 
is eggs. Boil the eggs just hard enough to make them 
shell easily, which takes about eight minutes of hard 
boiling. Serve whole and hot. 

Never under any circumstances serve a heavy soup at 
a luncheon. 

For poached eggs, cut the bread into rounds with a 
large cake cutter before toasting. For small birds or 
asparagus, remove the crusts and cut into oblong 



Garnishes 127 

pieces. For minces and fricassees, cut into small 
squares or diamonds. For a border, cut after toasting, 
into inch and a half squares and then into halves diag- 
onally, making triangles; or cut into long pointed tri- 
angles. 

A DAINTY CENTERPIECE 

Scoop the pulp from oranges, fill the hollowed skins 
with wine jelly, pile whipped cream on top. The or- 
ange pulp can be used for cake, pudding or salads. 

CHEESE SHELLS 

Don't throw away the shell of the Edam or Pine- 
apple cheese. It is most sightly for serving a cheese 
or macaroni preparation. Cook the macaroni as de- 
sired for the cheese shell, heat in moderate oven, pour 
in food sprinkled with grated cheese and send to the 
table on a doily covered plate. 

DECORATIONS 

The luncheon table apart from the center piece and 
decorations should have as little as possible on it. 
At each place should be a plate and napkin with a din- 
ner roll tucked in its fold, two knives, two forks, 
spoons, salt cellar, water glass, and if wines are served, 
one for sherry and one for claret. 

FINGER BOWLS' 

Finger bowls filled with perfume and water and 
floating flower bottles were in use long before the com- 
ing of Christ. In the ceremonious course dinner of to- 
day the finger bowl makes its appearance twice. It 
is first presented after the salad. 



BEVERAGES 

For a family of two there is nothing equal to the 
Marion Harland coffee pot. The best way to clean a 
"Marion Harland" coffee pot is to use good hot water 
and soap suds. Never use strong alkali soaps or 
washing sodas, or powders, or sand. A careful clean- 
ing each time after use, with good, hot, soapy water 
will keep your coffee pot in condition for years. Thor- 
oughly scald and clean before using the first time. 
After using, the pot and filter must be thoroughly dry 
before the parts are again put together. It is a good 
plan to air and dry the parts by placing the filter and 
cover on the spout and handle. To keep the wire 
gauze filter from clogging or filling up, it is absolute- 
ly necessary that you use stiff brush for cleaning the 
wire gauze — a new tooth or nail brush answers admir- 
ably. New filters or covers can be purchased from 
your dealer, or will be sent by mail. Price for filters 
35c, strainer for inside of filter 15c, cover 20c. When 
ordering give number stamped on bottom of pot. 

Be careful in buying coffee not to get too much at a 
time, as it loses its flavor, no matter how well sealed. 
For the small family get half a pound of coffee and 
keep in an air tight glass jar. 

Never put dry coffee into the coffee pot, it makes it 
very hard to keep clean inside. A little cold water 
should be poured in first, then the egg, and last the 
coffee, then mix all together thoroughly. 

COFFEE 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of ground coffee with a tea- 
spoonful of raw egg and two tablespoonfuls of cold 



Beverages 129 

water. Pour on this two cupfuls of boiling water, cover 
closely, and let it boil up; then remove from the fire. 
Let it stand a few minutes to settle, then strain into a 
hot coffee pot through a damp cheese cloth laid on a 
wire strainer. 

FILTERED COFFEE 

Place in the "Marion Harland" filter one table- 
spoonful of fine ground coffee for each large cup of 
coffee infusion you wish to make. 

Place the strainer in position. Pour the required 
quantity of fresh boiling water into the filter. Set the 
pot on the fire to keep the water hot, but not to boil. 
The beverage will be ready in ten or fifteen minutes. 

FRENCH AFTER DINNER COFFEE 

To make one pint of this infusion, take four table- 
spoonfuls of ground coffee, previously warmed, and 
make the coffee as per directions. When ready 
pour the coffee- into small cups, and serve with 
sugar only. It is very exhilarating. 

French coffee differs from English breakfast coffee 
only in that it is twice as strong. 

To many Americans, French coffee will appear bit- 
ter. This is on account of its strength. 

BURNT COFFEE 

This coffee should be served in small cups, and be 
made as strong and clear as possible, and sweetened 
almost to a syrup. At the last moment a little brandy 
should be poured gently over it on a spoon, fire set to 
it, and when the spirit is partly consumed, the flame 
is blown out, and the coffee drunk quite hot. Allow 
a cupful for each person. 



130 Just for Two 

A DELIGHTFUL BEVERAGE FOR A HOT 
SUMMER DAY 

Make an infusion of very strong coffee, put it in an 
earthen bowl, sweeten it agreeably to your taste, and 
add to it an equal quantity of boiled milk, or a third 
of rich cream. Surround the bowl with broken ice, 
and let it stand till icy cold. 

COFFEE CREAM 

Make a large cupful of strong, clear coffee, add 
half a pint of boiling cream to it, beat them well 
together, sweeten with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
and when cool add a small pinch of salt, the well- 
beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of two. Stir 
the mixture over the fire for a few minutes to thicken 
it, pour into glasses, and serve with a little sifted 
sugar on the top of each glass. This is sufficient for 
six or eight persons. 

ENGLISH BREAKFAST COFFEE 

Take freshly roasted berries, grind them at the 
last moment, and make the powder hot in the oven. 
To make six large sized cups of strong coffee, measure 
into the filter cup one cup of ground coffee, pour 
on the boiling water, and set by the fire. The bever- 
age will be ready to serve in about fifteen minutes 

TO MAKE TEA 

Allow two teaspoonfuls of tea to one large cupful of 
boiling water. Scald the teapot, put in the tea, pour 
on about a cupful of boiling water, set it on the fire 
in a warm place where it will not boil, but keep very 
hot, to almost boiling; let it steep or "draw" ten or 
twelve minutes. Now fill up with as much boiling wa- 



Beverages 1 3 1 

ter as is required. Send hot to the table. It is better 
to use a china or porcelain teapot, but if you do use 
metal let it be tin, new, bright and clean; never use- 
it when the tin is worn off and the iron exposed. If 
you do you are drinking tea-ate of iron. 

To make tea to perfection, boiling water must be 
poured on the leaves directly it boils. Water which 
has been boiling more than five minutes, or which has 
previously boiled, should on no account be used. If 
the water does not boil, or if it be allowed to overboil, 
the leaves of the tea will be only half-opened and the 
tea itself will be quite spoiled. The water should be al- 
lowed to remain on the leaves from ten to fifteen min- 
utes. 

COLD TEA 

Three tablesr3oonfuls of tea, six tablespoonfuls of 
sugar; one pint of water, juice of one lemon and a 
half. Let the tea stand in water over night. In the 
morning strain and add the lemon juice and sugar. Al- 
ter it has again stood an hour, strain again and 
the tea is ready for the cracked ice. Serve in small 
soda glasses. 

COCOA 

Three tablespoonfuls of cocoa to a half pint of wa- 
ter, as much milk as water, sugar to taste. Rub the 
cocoa smooth in a little cold water; have ready on the 
fire half a pint of boiling water; stir in grated cocoa 
paste. Boil fifteen minutes, add the milk and boil five 
minutes more, stirring often. Sweeten in cups so as 
to suit different tastes. 

LEMON SYRUP 

Take the juice of six lemons; grate the rind of three 
in it, let it stand over night. Then take three pounds 
of white sugar and make a thick syrup. When it is 
quite cool strain the juice into it, and squeeze as 



132 Just for Two 

much oil from the grated rind as will suit the taste. 
Put into bottles, tightly corked, for future use. A 
tablespoonful in a goblet of ice water will make a 
delicious drink. 

MILK PUNCH FOR INVALIDS 

One-half pint of milk made very sweet, half a wine 
glass of rum, stir well together. Grate a little nut- 
meg over the top of the glasses. Serve with straws 
in each glass. 

WINE WHEY FOR INVALIDS 

Sweeten to taste half a pint of milk, put in a double 
boiler and let come to a boil, throw in one glass of 
cherry wine. When the curd forms, strain the whey 
through a clean muslin bag into small soda glasses. 

ORANGEADE 

Juice of two oranges, two tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, four teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, one glass of 
finely chopped ice, two glasses of water, shake well 
in a large shaker. Serve in soda glasses, and dress 
with fruit. 

LIMEADE 

Four tablespoonfuls of lemon syrup, two tablespoon- 
fuls of lime juice. Pour over finely chipped ice in 
mineral glasses. Sweeten to taste with powdered sug- 



GRAPE-JUICEADE 

Four tablespoonfuls of lemon syrup, four tablespoon- 
fuls of grape juice, one glass of water; sweeten to 
taste. Stir well and serve in mineral glasses with 
straws. 



Beverages 133 

LEMON .EGGNOGG 

Two tablespoonfuls of lemon syrup, two eggs, four 
dashes of Angostura bitters, one teaspoonful of rum, 
three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, one glass of 
milk, and a cup of chipped ice. Shake well in shaker, 
strain, and serve in soda glasses with straws. 

DELMONICO'S EGG LEMONADE 

Two fresh eggs, two tablespoonfuls lemon juice, one 
and a half tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, one glass 
of finely chipped ice. Shake well in shaker, strain, and 
serve. 

EGG-PINEAPPLE 

Half a cup of pineapple syrup, one cup of sweet 
cream, two eggs, one glass of chipped ice, three table- 
spoonfuls and a half of powdered sugar. Shake and 
serve in soda glasses with straws. 

HOT EGG MILK 

Two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one ounce cream, one egg, 
hot milk to fill an eight-ounce mug. Top with whipped 
cream and sprinkle with nutmeg. If there is no 
facility for keeping hot milk, use about two ounces of 
cream, and fill the mug with hot water. 

MINT JULEP 

Dampen a small bunch of mint, dust with powdered 
sugar, bruise slightly and pour over it a little boiling 
water; allow this to draw, then strain into a tall, thin 
glass quite filled with finely cracked ice; dress the 
glass with sprigs of mint, and pour in enough brandy 
to fill. Do not stir, but stand it away till thoroughly 
cool. Serve with straws. 



134 Just for Two 

HOT CLAM SODA 

One teaspoonful of clam juice and a little cream; 
fill cup with hot water, stir with a spoon, and add salt 
and pepper. 

CREAM DE BEEF BOUILLON 

Add one ounce of sweet cream to a cup of beef 
bouillon and top with whipped cream and you have a 
delicious drink. 

DOROTHY ALE 

Juice of one orange, three teaspoonfuls powdered 
sugar, one egg, one ounce grape juice, one-fourth ounce 
port wine, small quantity shaved ice; fill glass with 
plain water; shake, put in lemonade glass, finish with a 
slice of pineapple and a cherry. 



FOR THE CHAFING DISH 

WELSH RAREBIT 

One-half pint ale heated to boiling point, cut up fine 
one pound ordinary cheese, beat one egg and add to 
the cheese, together with two teaspoonfuls mustard, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of cayenne 
pepper. Put all into the beer, stirring constantly, but 
carefully, until smooth, but no longer. Serve at once 
on toast or crackers. 

ENGLISH RAREBIT 

Cut finely a cup of cheese and crumb a cup of bread 
crumbs, put in your chafing dish or frying pan a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut, add the cheese and stir 
it to a cream. Moisten the bread crumbs with a cup 
of milk, thicken with three eggs well beaten. This 
will serve six or eight persons. 

CHEESE DREAMS 

Cut thin slices of bread and spread with butter; be- 
tween two slices of the bread sandwich a thin slice 
of cream cheese. Fry quickly in butter in a chafing 
dish or frying pan. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

Three cups of cheese, two eggs, one saltspoonful of 
soda, one saltspoonful of salt, one saltspoonful of mus- 
tard, one tablespoonful of butter, one-half cup of hot 



136 Just for Two 

water, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire, one tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice, and a little red pepper. Melt 
the butter in the blazer over the hot water. Put in 
the cheese, broken in small pieces, and add the sea- 
soning. Dissolve the soda in the water and gradually 
pour it in the melting cheese. Beat in the eggs sep- 
arately until very light. Add a little cold water to the 
yolk while beating, and stir them into the cheese. As 
soon as it is smooth and creamy, put in the Worces- 
tershire and lemon juice. Whip in the white of the 
egg last. Serve at once, on toast. 

CHEESE AND HAM 

To one cup of white sauce add one-haif cup chopped 
ham, one-half cup of grated cheese, one-half teaspoon- 
ful cayenne. Serve on toast. 

SHRIMP WIGGLE 

Make a white sauce of one tablespoonful of butter, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one-half pint milk. When 
thick add one-half can shrimps and one-half can green 
peas. Serve when the shrimps and peas are hot. 

NEW YORK CHAFED OYSTERS 

Put one pint of oysters in a chafing dish, add butter 
size of an egg, salt, pepper and Worcestershire sauce 
to taste. When the oysters begin to heat, add flour a 
little at a time, to prevent lumps, stirring well, until 
the gravy is slightly thickened. Serve on hot plates. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Put layers of buttered bread crumbs, well seasoned 
with salt and pepper, and layers of oysters in the blazer 
over hot water. Have crumbs for the last layer. 
Cover the pan and cook ten minutes. 



For the Chafing Dish 137 

PIGS IN BLANKETS 

Drain and wipe large oysters. Pin around each a thin 
slice of bacon. Fasten it with a wooden toothpick. 
Cook them in the hot blazer until the bacon is brown 
and crisp. 

PANNED OYSTERS 

Have the chafing dish hot and then turn in a pint 
of oysters, which have been drained well, season with 
salt, pepper and celery salt, adding butter, and when 
the oysters begin to curl on the edges, serve on dry 
toast. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG 

One lobster, one cup of cream, red pepper, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, yolks of three eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls of sherry, salt. Cut one large or two small 
lobsters in small slices. Cut with a silver knife. Put 
it in the blazer with the butter. Season with salt and 
a dash of red pepper, and pour over the sherry. Cover 
the pan and cook five minutes. Mix the beaten eggs 
with the cream, and pour it on the lobster. Serve as 
soon as it boils. Shrimp and hard-shelled crab may 
be prepared the same. 

CREAMED CHICKEN 

Cold roast chicken or turkey, two cups of white 
sauce and two tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Cut the 
chicken or turkey in slices and dip them in the oil. 
This should be done an hour before cooking in the 
chafing dish. Then prepare the white sauce and cook 
the chicken in it for about five minutes. 

CREAMED CHICKEN AND MUSHROOMS 

To one pint of cream or white sauce add one pint of 
cold chicken chopped fine, and add one-half pint mush- 
rooms. Heat and serve hot. 



138 Just for Two 

SPRING CHICKEN 

Take one spring chicken and split open, lay in cold 
water for one hour; one-half Bermuda onion sliced 
and one-fourth pound best butter. Braise the onion 
to a delicate brown; one-half teaspoonful of paprika, 
steam chicken thoroughly and braise and cover until 
nearly done; do not break the chicken; put in one ta- 
blespoonful flour, shake well, add one pint of rich 
cream, let it come to a boil and season to taste, strain 
the sauce and pour over the chicken and let it simmer 
over a slow fire three-quarters of an hour; when ready 
to serve add one gill of sparkling Tokay wine. Cook 
in chafing dish. 

FRIED CHICKEN 

Cut the breast in pieces and lay in salt and water for 
a short time, wipe dry and roll in flour; fry in hot lard 
and butter, season with salt and pepper, fry parsley 
also. Make a gravy of cream seasoned with salt and 
pepper, a little mace and thicken with flour, in the pan 
in which the chicken has been fried. 

CREAMED SWEET BREADS AND PEAS 

Make a white sauce from two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter. When melted, stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
and when well blended add gradually one pint of milk. 
When thick, season with pepper and salt, then add one- 
half pint of sweet-breads (boiled and cut in dice) and 
one-half pint of green peas. Heat thoroughly and 
serve. 

CREAMED MUSHROOMS 

Cook small mushrooms for ten minutes in a little 
salted water. Drain them and add white sauce. 

CREAMED EGGS WITH CHEESE 

Cook three eggs until hard, slice when cold into one 
cup of white sauce. When boiling hot stir in carefully 



For the Chafing Dish 139 

two tablespoonfuls grated cheese and season with cay- 
enne. Serve on rounds of toast. 

STEWED KIDNEYS 

Split the kidneys and cut each in three pieces. Brown 
them in butter. Stir flour and water in the pan to 
make a brown sauce, and cook the kidneys m this for 
ten minutes. 

BROILED LAMB CHOPS 

Have rib chops, with the bones removed, rolled into 
rosettes. Broil in the hot blazer from eight to ten 
minutes, turning them several times. Season with 
salt, pepper and butter. Broiled tomatoes should ac- 
company this dish. 

BROILED TOMATOES 

Cut large tomatoes in thick slices, without peeling. 
Sprinkle them with a little salt, pepper and sugar and 
roll them in cracker dust. Put a tablespoonful of but- 
ter in the blazer, and put in the slices of tomato. Turn 
frequently until done. 

FRIED TOMATOES 

Slice the tomatoes as for broiling, dredge with flour, 
fry a light brown in butter, lay them in a hot chafing 
dish. To the butter in the spider add a little more 
butter, add as much flour as you did butter, stir well 
and add milk or cream, season to taste and pour over 
the tomatoes. It is best to serve either fried or broiled 
tomatoes in a chafing dish, as they cook very quickly. 

DEVILED TONGUE 

Sprinkle slices of tongue with mustard and red pep- 
per, and pour over a little salad oil. Place the slices 



140 Just for Two 

together in one pile, and let them remain an hour. 
Then brown them in hot butter. Serve with slices of 
brown bread. 

BROWN SAUCE 

One tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of 
flour, one tablespoonful of onion juice, two cups of 
beef stock. Cook the onion, butter and flour until it is 
brown, add the stock, and season the gravy. Beef 
extract and water may be used instead of stock. 



BREAKFAST FOODS 



VITOS BREAKFAST FOOD 

Stir one cup of Vitos into one quart, or four cups, 
of boiling water, salt to taste and boil IS minutes. 
Serve with cream and sugar. Best results are obtained 
by using double boiler. 

FRIED VITOS MUSH 

When cold, slice, dip in beaten egg and fry. Serve 
with syrup. 

CREAMED VITOS 

To two and one-half cupfuls boiling water add one 
teaspoonful of salt and stir in slowly one cupful of 
Pillsbury's Vitos. Let this boil five minutes, stirring 
all the time, then put it in a double boiler, add two 
cupfuls milk and let it cook for thirty minutes. Serve 
hot with cream. 

VITOS WHEAT FOOD WITH APPLES 

Core apples, leaving large cavities; pare and cook 
until soft in syrup made by boiling sugar and water 
together. Fill cavities with Pillsbury's Vitos mush 
and serve with sugar and cream. The syrup should 
be saved and re-used. 

STEAMED OATMEAL 

One teacupful of oatmeal, one quart of cold water 
and a teaspoonful of salt; gradually heat and steam 
one hour and three quarters after it begins to cook. 
Serve with cream and sugar. 



142 Just for Two 

CRACKED WHEAT 

Soak one teacup of cracked wheat in not quite a 
quart of cold water over night; boil half an hour in the 
morning in a double boiler; add a teaspoonful of salt; 
serve with sugar and cream. 

BOILED RICE 

Take one teacupful of rice and one quart of fresh 
milk; place in a steamer, and steam from two to three 
hours, when nearly done, stir in a piece of butter the 
size of a butter ball and a pinch of salt. Serve with 
cream and sugar. 



PIES 

All of the materials must be as cool as possible. 

Pastry flour should be used. 

The following fats may be used alone or in combina- 
tions of two: butter, butterine, lard, cottolene, beef 
drippings. The fat should not be cut very fine, if a 
flaky crust is desired. Baking powder is sometimes 
used. 

The dough should be mixed with a knife and not 
touched with the hands. It should be rolled in one 
direction only, and on one side, using but little flour. 
The d6ugh is rolled thin and baked until brown. 

All pies made with fresh fruit should be made with- 
out an under-crust, and cooked in a deep earthenware 
plate. Fill the plate very full. If sugar is used with 
fruit pies, it should be placed on the bottom of the 
pie plate. Meat and oyster-pies should also be made 
without any under crust. The crust should be cut 
in several places to allow the steam to escape. 

If an under crust is used, this crust should be baked 
on the out side of a tin plate, then filled. In this case, 
the crust must be pricked all over with a fork so that 
it may keep its shape. 

If two crusts are used, the lower one should be mois- 
tened around the edge with cold water, then a half- 
inch strip of paste should be placed around the edge of 
the under-crust. This strip should also be moistened 
and the upper crust placed over the pie and pressed 
slightly around the edge. 

The paste may be made the day before using, then 
covered and placed on ice. It rolls more easily if 
placed on ice after mixing. 



144 Just for Two 

PIE CRUST 

One even cupful of flour, and one teaspoonful of 
salt. Sift several times. Cut into the flour half a cup 
of ice cold lard, and ad,d four tablespoonfuls of ice 
cold water; stir with a spoon. Divide the paste in 
two equal parts, roll out one part for the under crust. 
The other half roll out an eighth of an inch thick, dot 
it with a teaspoonful and a half of butter, dredge very 
lightly with flour, fold up to the smallest size pos- 
sible, pat with the rolling pin, and roll out once, press- 
ing the rolling pin this way and that. Slash with a 
knife any design you like, lay upon the fruit in the pan, 
pinch the edges together; trim. Bake in hot oven. 

PIE CRUST FOR ONE PIE 

One large cup flour, one-half cup shortening (lard 
and butter mixed) rubbed through the hands into the 
flour, a little salt and wet with ice-cold water to make 
the dough just so it can be handled; flour the board 
or what is better a marble slab. Divide the crust in 
two parts and cover the plate, reserving the rest for 
upper crust. This is a plain crust and just enough for 
one pie. Especially good for fruit pies. 

PLAIN PASTRY 

One and one-fourth cupfuls of pastry flour, one- 
fourth teaspoonful of salt, one-third cupful of fat and 
butter, one-half of each, ice water. Mix in the order 
given. 

MINCE MEAT 

One-half cupful of mixed candied citron, lemon and 
orange peels, one-half cupful of suet, one and one- 
half cupfuls of mixed raisins and currants, one and 
one-half cupfuls of chopped apples, one cupful of 
cooked beef chopped fine, one heaping tablespoonful 



Pies 145 

and half of molasses, three tablespoonfuls of brown 
sugar, one teaspoonful and a half of mixed spices. 
(Nutmeg, allspice, cloves, cinnamon and black pep- 
per.) Add three pinches of salt, half a cupful of 
brandy and half a cupful of cider, mixed. Cover the 
raisins with cold water and seed them. Wash and pick 
over the currants, cover both raisins and currants with 
cold water and cook slowly until the water has boiled 
away. Add the candied fruit and suet chopped fine, 
sugar, molasses, spices and cider, boil slowly one hour 
and ten minutes, stirring quite often. Mix apples and 
beat together, add salt and other ingredients, cook 
thoroughly fifteen minutes. Put away in jar in a cool 
place until wanted. This makes one large pie. Before 
covering the pie, it is a good idea to lay on top a few 
nut meats, either hickory or English walnuts. Mine 
meat should stand at least three days before using. 

APPLE PIE 

Wipe and cut tart apples into eighths; remove the 
cores and skins. Vary the amount of sugar according 
to the acidity of the apples, using two tablespoonfuls 
or more for an apple. If the apples are not juicy, add 
from one-half tablespoonful to one tablespoonful wa- 
ter, according to the size of the apple. 

The apples may be flavored with lemon juice, cin- 
namon or nutmeg, and should be covered with bits of 
butter. Bake until the apples are soft and the crust is 
brown. Apple sauce may be used on a baked crust. 

GRANDMOTHER'S APPLE PIE 

One pint of flour and one teaspoonful salt, one table- 
spoonful of lard and two of butter, six tablespoonfuls 
of ice water, five good sized tart apples, one and one- 
half cupfuls sugar, butter the size of a walnut, one- 
half cupful water and either cinnamon, nutmeg or all- 
spice to suit the taste. Put flour, salt, lard and butter 



146 Just for Two 

into a chopping bowl and chop until the lard and but- 
ter are like small sized peas; then add the water with- 
out mixing; turn out on the board and roll and fold 
over. Continue to do so until the crust is smooth, then 
line the pie-tin and fill with sliced apples and spice. Do 
not put on a particle of sugar. Then the upper crust 
with a slit cut in it; bake. Put on the fire the sugar, wa- 
ter and butter; boil fifteen minutes or until it thickens, 
then pour through the slit you have made in the pie 
before it was baked. This sweetens the pie, the crust 
is not soggy, and the juice does not run out in the 
oven while baking as in the old way. 

APPLE LEMON PIE 

Two tart apples chopped fine, two eggs beaten, juice 
of two lemons, grated rind of one, one cup of sugar, 
a pinch of salt. Bake between two crusts. 

LEMON PIE 

One-fourth cupful flour, one cupful sugar, one cup- 
ful of boiling water, juice and rind of one lemon, 
four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, four teaspoon- 
fuls of butter, two eggs. Beat the yolks of eggs until 
light. Mix the sugar and flour together. Add the boil- 
ing water slowly. Cook twenty minutes, stirring fre- 
quently, add the mixture to the egg, add butter and 
lemon, and cook until the egg thickens. When the 
mixture is cool, place it in a baked crust. Cover with 
a meringue, and bake until a delicate brown. 

SMALL LEMON PIE 

Moisten one heaping tablespoonful of corn starch 
with a little water, add a cupful of boiling water. Stir 
over the fire until it boils three minutes; add a tea- 
spoonful of butter and one cupful of sugar. Take off 
the fire and when slightly cooled, add one beaten egg 
and the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Bake with 
a crust. 



Pies 147 

CREAM PIE 

Yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and one pint of rich milk. 
Flavor to the taste; put the yolks and whites together, 
or spread the whites over the top of the pie. 

WHIPPED CREAM PIE 

Line a pie plate with a rich crust and bake quickly 
in a hot oven. When done, spread with a thin layer 
of jelly or jam, then whip one cupful of thick sweet 
cream until it is as light as possible; sweeten with pow- 
dered sugar and flavor with vanilla; spread over the 
jelly or jam; set the cream where it will get very cold 
before whipping. 

BAKERS' CUSTARD PIE 

Beat up the yolks of three eggs to a cream. Stir 
thoroughly a tablespoonful of sifted flour into three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar; this separates the particles of 
flour so that there will be no lumps; then add to it 
the beaten yolks, put in a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful 
of vanilla and a little grated nutmeg; next the well- 
beaten whites of the eggs; and, lastly a pint of scalded 
milk (not boiled) which has been cooled; mix this in 
by degrees and turn all into a deep pie-pan lined with 
puff paste, and bake from twenty-five to thirty min- 
utes. 

CHERRY PIE 

Line your pie tin with good crust, fill half full with 
ripe stoned cherries; sprinkle over them one cupful 
of sugar, one teaspoonful of flour sifted, dots of butter 
here and there. Now fill the crust to the top with more 
cherries. Cover with the upper crust and bake. This 
is a most delicious pie. 



1 4-8 Just for Two 

FIG PIE 

Stew one dozen large figs in one teacupful of water 
and one-half teacupful of sharp vinegar. Stew the figs 
until soft, then add a half teaspoonful of butter, sugar 
to taste and a little flour. Bake with an under and 
upper crust. 

RASPBERRY PIE 

Line a shallow pudding dish, or deep plate, with pie 
crust and fill with berries, a cup of granulated sugar 
mixed with one tablespoonful of flour. Cover with a 
tolerably thick sheet of crust; make several incisions 
for the escaping steam; bake until crusts are a delicate 
brown. Serve cool. 

CRANBERRY PIE 

Take fine, sound, ripe cranberries and with a sharp 
knife split each one until you have a heaping coffee 
cupful; put them in a vegetable dish or basin; put over 
them one cupful of white sugar, half a cup of water, 
a tablespoonful of sifted flour; stir it all together 
and put into your crust. Cover with an upper crust 
and bake slowly in a moderate oven. You will find 
this the true way of making a cranberry pie. 

PIE PLANT PIE 

Wash and skin the pie plant, and cut in inch length 
pieces, put in granite pan and cover with cold water 
and heat to boiling and drain off the water; to two 
cupfuls of pie plant add one cupful sugar, a table- 
spoonful of flour mixed. Line the plate with paste, 
put in the pie plant and cover with thin crust with 
slashes for steam to escape, and keep the juice from 
running out while cooking. Bake till the crust is a 
delicate brown. 



Pies 149 

PUMPKIN PIE 

Select a small fine grained pumpkin. Steam it until 
perfectly tender, then press through a colander. To a 
pint of the sifted pumpkin add one quart of rich milk, 
three well beaten eggs, tea cup of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of ginger, one teaspoonful cinnamon, and a half 
teaspoonful of salt. Stir all together. Line two deep 
pie tins with good pastry, pour in the mixture, sift a 
little sugar and a dusting of nutmeg over the top and 
bake until firm in the center and a golden brown in 
color. 

SQUASH PIE 

Take one part of a Hubbard squash, cut in half, 
scrape out the seeds and peel. Put into a saucepan 
and cover with salt water. Mash fine; one good cupful 
will make a pie. Use the other as a vegetable. Beat 
the yolk of one egg with four tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
a half teaspoonful of ground ginger, three pinches of 
salt, and two-thirds of a cup of hot milk; pour on 
slowly, stirring all the time. Add a teaspoonful and a 
half of butter and a heaping cupful of hot mashed 
squash, a scant teaspoonful of flour, three pinches of 
grated nutmeg. Beat all together, add the white of 
the egg beaten to a froth. Beat thoroughly, and pour 
in pie pan; sprinkle a little brown sugar over the top. 
Bake in a hot oven ten minutes. 




Cream of Carrot Soup. 

Celery. Wafers. Olives. 

Roast Turkey with Gravy. 

Mashed White Potatoes. Stewed Tomatoes. 

Lingham Berries. Quince Jelly. 

Lemon Ice. 

Water Cress Salad. 

Cheese Wafers. 

Plum Pudding or Pumpkin Pie. 

Nuts. Raisins. 

Black Coffee. 



CAKES 

RULES FOR CAKE MAKING 

In making cake, accuracy in measuring the ingredi- 
ents is absolutely necessary. Success follows those 
who give strict attention to detail. The baking is 
usually the most difficult part. Eggs must be per- 
fectly fresh; butter sweet, and flour fine. Butter 
cakes, as pound cake, cup cake and fruit cake, must 
be baked in a very moderate oven (220°Fahr.), while 
layer cakes may be baked more quickly (from 280° 
to 300° Fahr.), Angels' food and sunshine cake 
should be placed in a very cool oven (212° Fahr.), 
the heat increased slowly for three-quarters of an 
hour, browning at the last. Do not beat the butter, 
sugar and eggs in a tin basin; it scours the basin, but 
discolors the materials. Use a wooden spoon and a 
white enameled bowl. 

Measure everything before beginning. 

Always separate the whites and yolks of the eggs, 
unless the recipe specifically directs otherwise. 

Beat the butter to a cream before adding the sugar; 
then beat the sugar and butter until very light before 
adding the eggs. 

When a recipe calls for a teaspoonful of baking 
powder, it always means a rounding spoonful, unless 
otherwise stated. 

Each teaspoonful of baking powder may be replaced 
by a half teaspoonful of soda (level) and a level tea- 
spoonful ot cream of tartar sifted with the flour 
three or four times. 



I52 Just for Two 

Dried fruits, as currants and raisins, must be per- 
fectly dean and well floured, and added to the cakes 
at the last moment. 

If fruits sink to the bottom of the cake, the cake is 
not sufficiently thick to hold them in place; add more 
flour to the batter. 

Cups used for measuring hold a half pint. 

Suet is the best material for greasing cake pans. 
Butter burns easily, sticks and holds the cake to the 

pan. . . 

Have the oven ready as soon as the cake is mixed. 

Cookies, thin small cakes as wafers, require a mod- 
erately quick oven (240 Fahr.); molasses cakes, a 
very moderate oven; as they scorch easily. 

If you are without a thermometer, and must guess 
at the heat of the oven (a most unsatisfactory way), 
and you find it too hot, quickly lift the lids of the 
stove and put a pan of cold water in the oven. Cakes 
baked too quickly at first will come up in the center, 
crack and run over the sides of the pan.. It is im- 
possible to keep them in shape. 

Do not jar the stove, or open and close the oven 
door until the center of the cake is "set." 

Do not cover a cake with paper; the paper burns 
and spoils the flavor of the cake. 

Regulate your oven. If necessary to look at a cake 
while baking, do it as quickly as possible, and open 
and close the door carefully. 

In recipes, where time is given for baking, remem- 
ber it is guaged by a thermometer, and it is impos- 
sible for you to follow it correctly without one. Be 
careful then that the cake is thoroughly done before 
you take it from the oven. If it is not, it will tick 
loudly when you put your ear to it, and will tall 
when taken out, having a heavy streak near the bot- 
tom. 



Cakes 153 

It is always well to line the pans with greased 
paper for fruit cake, pound cake, wedding cake and 
cakes rich with butter. 

When a cake is done, turn it gently on a cake sieve 
and allow it to cool. Do not handle it while hot. 

Do not melt or warm the butter until it is oily. It 
may be slightly softened in warm water. 

PLAIN LAYER CAKE 

Cream one butter ball and one cupful of sugar, two 
eggs, beaten separately; mix yolks and sugar and but- 
ter together. Add one cup of milk, one cup and a half 
of flour and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, sifted. 
Add the beaten whites last. 

Filling. — One egg well beaten, one-half cup of sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix together; one and one- 
fourth cups of milk, let milk come to a boil. Add one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 

One cupful of sugar, two cupfuls of flour, one cupful 
of milk, four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
flavor to suit taste. 

Filling and Icing — One-half cupful of grated choc- 
olate, one large cupful of sugar, one-fourth cupful of 
milk, butter the size of an English walnut. Mix and 
put on the stove to boil. It should not be stirred while 
boiling. Boil ten minutes and then set off and let cool, 
stirring occasionally. When cool put between and 
on top of the cake. If it is not thick enough, put back 
on stove and cook a little more. 

MAPLE LAYER CAKE 

Melt one-third of a cake of chocolate over hot 
water. Dissolve one teaspoonful of baking soda in 
one-half a cup of warm water. Beat one-half a cup 



154 Just for Two 

of butter to a cream, add two well beaten eggs with 
out separating, and now beat in gradually two cups of 
maple sugar, and beat for ten minutes. Add the soda 
and water to one cup of thick sour milk, add this with 
the melted chocolate to the egg mixture; now stir in 
two cups and a half of sifted flour. Beat all well to- 
gether and bake in three layers. When cold put 
together with maple or caramel filling. 

COCOANUT CAKE 

Cream together three-quarters of a cup of butter and 
two of white sugar, then add one cup of sweet milk, 
four eggs, whites and yolks separately beaten, the 
yolks added first to the butter and sugar, then the 
whites. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. Mix three 
heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder in three cups 
of sifted flour and add last. Bake in jelly pans. 

For Filling. — Make an icing by beating the whites of 
three eggs and a cup of powdered sugar to a stiff froth, 
When the cake is cooled, spread a thick layer of this 
frosting over each cake, arid sprinkle very thickly with 
grated cocoanut. 

ORANGE CAKE 

Beat a cup of butter to a cream; add a cup and a 
half of granulated sugar; beat and mix well. Beat four 
eggs, the lighter the better; add these; then add one 
cup of milk; stir well; sift two cupfuls of flour in which 
are two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; add, mix well 
and beat. 

Grease three layer pans with lard, pour in the mix- 
ture and cook fifteen minutes in a quick oven. To the 
rind and juice of one orange, add the white of one egg, 
and sufficient powdered sugar to make a stiff frosting. 
Use this also as filling between the layers. If desired, 
an orange may be divided into sections and the frost- 
ing decorated with these. This cake is delicious. 



Cakes 155 

ANGEL CAKE 

The whites of six eggs, three-fourths cup of flour, 
three-fourths cup of sugar, one-half teaspoonful cream 
of tartar, and a pinch of salt. Flavor according to 
taste and bake in a small sized angel cake tin. 

Directions. — Sift flour seven times and sugar seven 
times. Put the cream of tartar and salt in the flour the 
last time you sift it. Have your oven ready. It must 
be moderately cool and even. Now beat the eggs 
quickly to a stiff froth, add the sugar gradually while 
stirring rapidly and lastly add the flour gradually, still 
stirring rapidly and put in the tin and bake forty min- 
utes in a quiet room. Let cake cool a little before tak- 
ing it from the pan. When testing cake to see if it is 
baked enough, use a broom straw. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE 

Whites of five eggs, one cupful of flour, one cupful 
of sugar, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Flavor 
with vanilla. Bake in a hot oven quickly. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE 

This cake can be made in twenty-five minutes. 
Beat together two eggs and three-fourths of a cup 
of granulated sugar very light; add five tablespoon- 
fuls of boiling water. Be sure that the water is 
boiling. Beat slightly and add one cupful of flour, sift- 
ed twice, with one teaspoonful of baking powder and 
a saltspoonful of salt. Flavor slightly with lemon. 
Beat until the flour is absorbed but no longer, bake 
in jelly cake pans in a quick oven twelve minutes. 
Whip one cup of cream stiff; sweeten with powdered 
sugar, a spoonful at a time while beating. When 
sweet enough flavor with lemon to taste. Put 
part of it on the bottom of one cake; lay the other 



156 Just for Two 

cake on with the top up; then put the remainder ot 
the cream in a pastry bag containing a tube in the end 
and decorate the surface with dots of cream. 

LEMON SPONGE LAYER CAKE 

Four eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, two cupfuls of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, three-fourths cup- 
ful of boiling water. Beat the yolks and sugar till very 
light, add flour and whites alternately, and, just before 
putting in the oven stir in the boiling water. Bake in 
a large pan or in layers. 

Icing— White of one egg, large cup of sugar, the 
grated rind and juice of half a lemon. Spread between 
the layers and ice over the top. 

WHIPPED CREAM CAKE 

Three-fourths cup of sugar, three eggs well beaten, 
one cup flour, one large teaspoonful baking powder, 
bake in a flat tin; when cold split with a sharp knife, 
and spread with a good cup of cream (measure before 
whipping) whipped stiff and seasoned with vanilla and 
sweetened to taste. 

SNOW CAKE 

One pound of arrowroot, quarter of a pound of pow- 
dered sugar, half a pound of the very best butter, the 
whites of six eggs, flavor with essence of almonds or- 
lemon. Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the sugar 
and arrowroot gradually, at the same time beating the 
mixture; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
add them to the other and beat well for twenty-five 
minutes. Then put in the flavoring. Pour the cake 
into a buttered mould and bake in a moderate oven 
for one and a half hours. 



Cakes 157 

YALE CAKE 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs with one cupful of sugar 
and three-fourths of a cupful of butter which has been 
creamed, two cupfuls of sifted flour, half a teaspoonful 
of soda in half a cupful of sweet, milk. When well 
mixed bake in a shallow pan. 

MARBLE CAKE 

White Part. — Whites of four eggs, one cup of white 
sugar, half a cup of butter, half a cup of sweet milk, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla or lemon and two and half cups of sifted flour. 

Dark Part. — Yolks of four eggs, one cup of brown 
sugar, half a cup of cooking molasses, half a cup of 
butter, half a cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
ground cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one tea- 
spoonful of mace, one nutmeg grated, one teaspoonful 
of soda, the soda to be dissolved in a little milk and 
added after part of the flour is stirred in, one and a 
half cups of sifted flour. 

Drop a spoonful of each kind in a well-buttered 
cake-dish, first the light part, then the dark, alternately. 
Try to drop it so that the cake shall be well-streaked 
through, so that it has the appearance of marble. 

DEVIL'S FOOD 

Part 1st. Two-thirds of a cup of chocolate shaved, 
two-thirds of a cup of brown sugar, half a cup of 
sweet milk, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Put the choc- 
olate and sugar on the stove. Add the milk slowly, 
stirring constantly; cook until smooth. Add the vanil- 
la when taken from the stove. Put in a pan of cold 
water to cool. 

Part 2nd. One-half cup of butter, and one cup of 
brown sugar creamed; add two eggs and beat until 
light. Add the cooled chocolate and beat well, then 



158 Just for Two 

add one-half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of soda sifted 
with two cups of flour. Beat hard, line the tin with 
oiled paper or butter the tin. Bake in two layers. 

Chocolate Cream Filling. Six tablespoonfuls of 
grated or shaved chocolate, enough milk or cream to 
moisten, one cupful of sugar, one egg beaten. Stir the 
ingredients over the fire until smooth. Take from the 
stove and add vanilla. When cool put between and on 
top of the cake. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE 

One cup of sugar, two cups of flour, two-thirds full, 
two eggs, two even teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, 
one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, one even 
teaspoonful of soda, one even teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Mix as usual and add the following mixture: One-half 
cake of Baker's chocolate, one-quarter of a cup of 
sugar (scant), two-thirds of a cup of milk, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, one egg. Cut the chocolate in 
pieces and put in a saucepan with the milk, stirring all 
the while. When dissolved add the egg beaten with 
the sugar. When cooked thick as mustard add to cake 
mixture and bake. Ice with thick white icing. The 
mixture will look very soft when ready for the oven, 
but do not add more flour, as the softer it is, the nicer 
the cake will be. 

RICH FRUIT CAKE 

Two scant teacupfuls of butter, three cupfuls of 
dark brown sugar, six eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately, one pound of raisins, seeded, one of cur- 
rants, washed and dried, and half pound of citron cut 
in thin strips; also half a cupful of cooking molasses 
and half a cupful of sour milk. Stir the butter and 
sugar to a cream, add to that half a grated nutmeg, 
one tablespoonful of ground cinnamon, one teaspoon- 
ful of cloves, one teaspoonful of mace, add the mo- 



Cakes 159 

lasses and sour milk. Stir all well; then put in the 
beaten yolks of eggs, a wine-glass of brandy; stir 
again all thoroughly, and then add four cupfuls of 
sifted flour alternately with the beaten whites of eggs. 
Now dissolve a level teaspoonful of soda and stir in 
thoroughly. Mix the fruit together and stir into it two 
heaping tablespoonfuls of flour; then stir it in the 
cake. Butter two common-sized baking tins carefully, 
line them with letter paper well buttered, and bake 
in a moderate oven two hours. After it is baked, let 
it cool in the pan. Afterward put it into a tight can, 
or let it remain in the pans and cover it tightly. Best 
recipe of all. 

MOLASSES CAKES 

Cream one half cup of butter and one half cup 
of sugar together, add one cup of very dark molasses, 
one half cup of sour milk, one-eighth of a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one teaspoonful ginger, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one-fourth teapoonful each of cloves 
and nutmeg, one teaspoonful soda sifted with one cup 
of flour, and enough flour to make a very soft dough; 
mix all together thoroughly, and roll out one-fourth 
of an inch thick, cut in round or fancy cakes, press a 
raisin or nut-meat in the center and bake in quite a 
hot oven. They can also be covered with any frosting 
one prefers. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

Two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
one-half teaspoon salt, two teaspoonfuls sugar, three- 
quarters cup milk, one-quarter cup butter, strawber- 
ries. 

Mix the flour, baking powder, salt and sugar and sift 
twice. Work in the butter with tips of the fingers 
and add the milk gradually. Toss on a floured board, 
divide into two parts, pat and roll out. Bake in two 



160 Just for Two 

layers, one on top of the other, with butter between; 
when cool, open with a knife. Sweeten strawberries 
to taste. Crush slightly and put between and on top 
of the short cake. Cover the top with whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored with vanilla. 

To one-half pint thick cream, add one-quarter cup 
milk and beat until stiff with the egg beater. Add one- 
quarter cup powdered sugar and one-quarter teaspoon- 
ful vanilla. Serve at once. 

The cream may be omitted. Other fruits may be 
substituted. 

CINNAMON BARS 

One pound of light brown sugar, four eggs; half a 
cup of blanched almonds, shredded; peel one lemon, 
and grate the rind, one tablespoonful cinnamon, one 
teaspoonful ground cloves; one pound of flour. Cream 
the sugar and eggs one hour, add the almonds and 
lemon, cinnamon, and cloves, mix thoroughly, add 
the flour, roll out very thin, cut in long bars, and bake 
until brown. 

GRANDMOTHER'S SOFT GINGERBREAD 

Take two eggs, one teacupful of molasses, one of 
sugar, one of butter, one of sour milk, one-half table- 
spoonful of soda, one tablespoonful of ginger. Mix 
stiff, and bake in slow oven twenty-five minutes. 

BROD TORTE 

Four tablespoonfuls of chopped almonds, rind of one 
lemon, four tablespoonfuls of citron, twelve eggs, 
beaten separately, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, half 
a teaspoonful of cardamon, one teaspoonful each of 
cloves and mace, one small cup of sifted stale graham 
bread crumbs, which moisten with one glass of wine, 
one cup of sugar. Mix the beaten whites of eggs in 
last, and bake in a slow oven one hour. This is a Ger- 
man holiday cake and very fine. 



Cakes 161 



CARAMEL FROSTING 

One cup of brown sugar, one cup of pulverized sug- 
ar, one-half cup of milk, butter the size of a walnut, 
four squares of Baker's chocolate, one teaspoonful of 
lemon essence, one teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Put 
the sugar and chocolate in a saucepan with milk and 
boil until melted; add the butter and boil until it 
shreds; add the essences and beat until it is thick 
enough to spread upon the cake. 

CARAMEL FILLING 

Boil in a granite sauce pan without stirring, three 
cups of brown sugar, one cup of cream and one heap- 
ing teaspoonful of butter. Let cook until when dropped 
in cold water it is hard enough to be waxy. Stir 
only on the bottom to keep from burning, then set 
in a pan of cold water and as it hardens, spread it 
on the cake while it is still soft enough to spread. 
It will settle into a smooth surface almost instantly. 

BANANA FILLING 

Make an icing of the whites of two eggs and one and 
one-half cups of powdered sugar. Spread this on the 
layers, and then cover thickly and entirely with ban- 
anas sliced thin or chopped fine. This cake may be 
flavored with vanilla. The top should be simply 
frosted. 

FIG FILLING 

Chop one pound of figs fine, add to the figs one- 
half cup of sugar and one cup of hot water, stew 
until soft and smooth. Spread between the layers 
and ice the whole cake with boiled icing. 

LEMON FILLING 

Cream one cupful of sugar and two tablespoonfuls 
of butter, two eggs; beat sugar, butter and eggs well, 



1 62 Just for Two 

then add the juice of two large lemons, juice only, beat 
all together and boil until the mixture is of the con- 
sistency of jelly. Let cool, and spread between layers 
and on top. Oranges can be used instead of lemons. 

BROWN COOKIES 

Two cupfuls of brown sugar, half a cupful each of 
lard and butter, two eggs, and one cupful of strong hot 
coffee in which dissolve one scant teaspoonful of soda, 
one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, 
and as many chopped raisins, citron, and nuts as you 
desire. Thicken with flour and drop from spoon in 
little round cakes. Bake in moderate oven. 

SUGAR JUMBLES 

Cream one cup of butter, and two cups of sugar, 
three eggs; beaten slightly, three-fourths of a cup of 
milk, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla or rose extract; two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, sifted with one cup of flour, adding 
enough flour to make a very soft dough. Roll out 
one-half inch thick, using as little flour as possible; cut 
with hole in center, and bake, remove from oven as 
soon as done, sprinkle with granulated sugar and 
arrange raisins around the cookie near the center. 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

Two cupfuls of flour, two cupfuls of Quaker oats, 
two eggs, one cupful of sugar and one cupful of short- 
ening, (butter, lard, suet, or both), one teaspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 
soda sifted in the flour, and one cupful of raisins. When 
all stirred together, drop on the tin in drops the size of 
an English walnut. Bake in a hot oven. These will 
keep for months in a covered butter jar. 



Cakes 163 

SOUR CREAM COOKIES 

Take one cup of butter, one cup and a half of sugar, 
two eggs, one cup of sour cream and one teaspoonful 
of soda. Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add the 
two beaten eggs, mix soda with cream and add flour 
enough to roll out thin. Sprinkle lightly with sugar, 
cut, and bake in quick oven. 

MRS. B.'S COOKIES 

Two cups of sugar, four beaten eggs, two and a half 
cups of flour, one-quarter teaspoonful of ground cloves, 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon, two ounces of citron, 
three ounces of chopped almonds, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Beat eggs and sugar and add other 
ingredients. Roll out thin and cut into diamond shape 
and let stand over night. In the morning take whites 
of two eggs, beat slightly, then add enough pulverized 
sugar to stiffen, spread over cookies and bake in a slow 
oven. Fine. 

ROCK COOKIES 

Cream one cup of butter, and one cup of granulated 
sugar sifted, two eggs well beaten, beat butter, sugar, 
and eggs fifteen minutes, add one cup of sifted flour 
mixed with one teaspoonful of baking powder; one 
half pound seeded raisins, one half pound chopped al- 
monds, and three tablespoonfuls of brandy. Add 
enough flour to make a soft batter, drop from spoon 
on buttered paper, and bake in a quick oven. 

COCOANUT DROPS 

Beat the whites of two eggs, add half a cupful of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of flour, one cupful of cocoa- 
nut; mix lightly and drop on oiled paper, and bake in 
a very moderate oven. 



164 Just for Two 

ALMOND MACAROONS 

One cupful and three quarters of chopped almonds, 
one cupful and three-quarters of powdered sugar, 
whites of three eggs, one heaping teaspoonful of cin- 
namon. Beat eggs very stiff, and add other ingredi- 
ents, drop on paraffined pan and bake in a very moder- 
ate oven. 

PARIS STICKS 

One and three-quarters cupfuls of chopped almonds, 
one cupful of pulverized sugar, the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, the grated rind of one lemon. 
Mix the ingredients and roll out on pulverized sugar; 
cut into strips an inch wide and put into paraffined 
pans. Bake in a slow oven. Excellent. 

ALMOND STRIPS 

Mix one cup of almonds, chopped fine, with the 
white of one egg slightly beaten, two tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar. Roll out puff paste very thin, 
three inches wide and ten inches long, cover with the 
almond nut mixture, cut into long strips, bake until a 
light brown. 

PUFF PASTE 

One cup of butter; two cups of pastry flour; ice- 
water to moisten. Wash butter thoroughly, reserve 
two tablespoonfuls, shape remainder into round cake 
one half inch thick, on floured board. Work the 
two tablespoonfuls butter, into the two cups pastry 
flour with the tips of fingers, adding enough ice water 
to moisten into dough. Knead on floured board one 
minute, cover with napkin, place in a pan on ice ten 
minutes, roll into oblong squares one-fourth inch 
thick, spread the butter on lower half, cover with up- 
per half, press edges together, fold right side of paste 



Cakes 165 

over and left side under, cover and chill five minutes, 
turn half-way round, roll one-fourth inch thick, dredge 
with flour to prevent sticking, fold from each side, 
chill again five minutes. Repeat twice, turning half 
way round each time, fold from ends to center, mak- 
ing three layers, put between pans of ice covered with 
napkins, do not let paste touch the ice. When the 
paste is thoroughly chilled it is ready to roll out. 

SOPHIA'S LADYFINGERS 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, beaten separately, one- 
half cup of hickory nuts chopped fine, one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder, the grated rind of one lemon. 
Mix sugar and yolks, add the nuts and whites of eggs 
and flour enough to roll out, sprinkle lightly with 
sugar, cut into strips three inches long and one inch 
wide, and bake in moderate oven. Delicious. 

DOUGHNUTS 

One-half cup of sugar, one egg, one cup of milk, 
one tablespoonful of melted lard, one pinch of salt, 
three tablespoonfuls of baking powder in part of flour; 
add flour enough to roll out the dough, cut, and fry in 
very hot lard. When brown on both sides, drain on 
unglazed paper. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

Sherbets and ices are made with the juices of water 
and sugar. Manage to keep on hand a supply of canned 
fruit syrups and a variety of delicious deserts may 
be quickly prepared. To give a nice, smooth consist- 
ency to a water ice dissolve one tablespoonful of gela- 
tine. The following are some of the most delicious 
sherbets and ices. Follow the directions given under 
Orange Sherbets for all the other varieties. 

ORANGE SHERBET 

One tablespoonful of gelatine, one-half cup of cold 
water, one-half cup boiling water, one cup of sugar, 
one pint of orange juice. Let the gelatine dissolve in 
the cold water ten minutes, add the boiling water, and 
when dissolved add the sugar, another cup of cold 
water and the orange juice. Strain when the sugar is 
dissolved and freeze. Some prefer to boil the water 
and sugar in a clear syrup, remove the scum, and when 
cool add the fruit juice; others use the white of an egg 
beaten stiff; adding it after the sherbet is partly frozen. 
To make pomegranate, make the same as orange sher- 
bet, using the blood-red orange instead of others. 
Serve in orange baskets or in scooped-out apples laid 
on a lettuce leaf. There are so many pretty ways of 
serving ices and creams if one will only go to the 
trouble. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET 

Two lemons, one cupful of pineapple, one quart of 
water, one pint of sugar. Boil the sugar and water 



Frozen Desserts 167 

together ten minutes. While cooking, drop into this 
syrup a piece of yellow lemon rind. Mix the syrup 
with the juice of the lemons and the pineapple. Freeze. 

RED RASPBERRY SHERBET 

One box of red raspberires crushed and heated with 
a little water and the seeds strained out, one pint of 
water and one cup of sugar boiled together, and the 
juice of one-half lemon. Freeze. 

MILK LEMON SHERBET 

Three-fourths of a quart of milk, two lemons, one 
cup of sugar. Grate the rind of half of one lemon and 
mix with the lemon juice. Mix sugar and lemon juice 
well. Have freezer cold as possible and ready. Add 
milk and pour quickly into freezer. When half frozen 
add the beaten whites of two eggs. 

ICE CREAM WITHOUT A FREEZER 

One pint of rich whipping cream, one cup of grated 
pineapple or mashed peaches, or any preferred flavor- 
ing or fruit. First whip the cream till perfectly stiff, 
then add the fruit and put into a tin pail or mould and 
bury in a bucket of finely chopped ice and salt. In 
fifteen minutes take out and scrape the cream away 
from edges, stir, and bury again. Do this three times 
and at the end of an hour you will have most de- 
licious ice cream. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 

One quart of cream, one small cup of sugar. Fla- 
vor to taste. 

PEACH ICE CREAM 

Mash six small peaches through a sieve and mix with 
the cream and make as above. 



1 68 Just for Two 

BANANA ICE CREAM 

A pretty ice cream for luncheon is banana ice cream 
of a delicate yellow tint served in the skin of red ban- 
anas. The skins can be made firm and stiff by lay- 
ing them carefully in a pail and burying it in ice and 
salt. 

COMPANY ICE CREAM 

One quart of milk, three-fourths pint of granulated 
sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, six bananas, peeled and 
sliced. Put the milk in a double boiler with the sugar. 
When scalding hot pour over the well-beaten eggs, 
stirring all the while, then return to the boiler and 
cook until of the consistency of a soft custard. Re- 
move from the fire and add the bananas. Stir until 
well mingled, cool thoroughly and freeze. 

BISQUE ICE CREAM 

Make a soft custard of one quart of milk, the yolks 
of four eggs, and one cupful of sugar. When at boil- 
ing point stir sugar, cream and flavor together; add 
lightly the whites of the eggs, pour into a mould and 
set on ice until required. 
i 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

Brown one and one-fourth cupfuis of granulated sug- 
ar in a frying pan, without water. Stir the sugar con- 
stantly over a hot fire till it melts and browns. Have 
ready a pint of milk heated almost to boiling point. 
Pour the melted sugar into the hot milk, when it will 
at once form in a large lump, but by stirring contin- 
ually it will again dissolve. Set aside to cool, then add 
a good one-half pint of cream and a scant one-half tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Strain and freeze. This makes 
one quart of ice cream. 



Frozen Desserts 169 

ICE CREAM WITH GELATINE 

One pint of rich cream, one cup of milk, one cup of 
sugar, whites of two eggs well beaten, and one table- 
spoonful of gelatine dissolved in hot water. Flavor to 
taste. 

SUNDAES 

Cut two figs (of some large, fine brand), into quar- 
ters and mix with vanilla cream, put in stem ice cream 
glasses and pour some of the juice over the top. The 
figs give a fine flavor to the cream. 

CENTRAL SUNDAE 

A half pound of English walnuts, half pound pecans 
chopped together with one teacupful of powdered 
sugar; add enough maple syrup to suit the taste. Pour 
over plain ice cream and serve in stem glasses. 

CHERRY EARL 

Very popular. Simply maraschino cherries poured 
over ice cream. 

BLACK AND WHITE 

Layer of ice cream with chocolate sauce poured over. 
Another layer of cream and sauce. Dark red cherry 
on top. 



FRUITS, JELLIES, PRESERVES 

"Waste not, want not" and "Many a time a small 
leak has sunk a great ship." And so it is with the 
canning of fruit. The thrifty housekeeper is always 
concerned in household economy and she instinctive- 
ly in times of plenty prepares for times of need. 

During the canning season it is best for economy's 
sake to can fruit scientifically, and when canned goods, 
spoil, she will know at once it is due to the fact that 
either the jars, covers, rubbers or contents are not 
perfectly sterilized or not on tight which they must 
be. There is quite a variety of glass jars on the 
market for canning fruits, all of which are satisfac- 
tory. To avoid trouble be sure that the covers are 
in perfect condition, and that you have the best of 
rubbers. Another thing that helps the housekeeper 
is the can tighteners which can be bought at almost 
any hardware store. Never use left over rubbers, it 
is not the best economy to do so. Use absolutely no 
tin cans or tin ware of any kind, it is not safe. To 
sterilize jelly tumblers, wash the glasses thoroughly 
and put them in a kettle and cover with cold water, 
place on the stove or range and heat gradually until 
the water comes to a boiling point. Remove the 
glasses and drain. Fill the glasses at once with the 
jelly or fruit placing the glasses while filling on a 
cloth wrung out of hot water. Set aside to cool, 
when cool cover air tight and set away in a cool 
dark place for the winter. To sterilize fruit jars, 



Fruits, Jellies, Preserves 17 1 

covers and rubbers, wash the same as jelly tumblers, 
then fill them with cold water, set in a kettle on a 
trivet, fill the kettle nearly to the top of the jars with 
cold water, place on the range and let the water come 
to a boiling point gradually. Remove the jars from 
the water, empty, then fill them while hot, placing 
the jars while filling them on a cloth wrung out of 
hot water, being careful there is not a draught of air 
coming on them, be sure to have the cloth come well 
up around the jar while filling. Put the covers in 
boiling water and let stand at least eight minutes, 
dip the rubbers in and out of the hot water, but do 
not let them stand in the water. Every housekeeper 
should have a jelly bag, it is one of the indispensables 
and it takes very little time to make one. Fold the 
opposite corners of a piece of cotton and wool flan- 
nel three-fourths of a yard long. Sew up in the form 
of a cornucopia, rounding at the end, then fell the 
seam to make secure, hem the top, and furnish with 
two tape loops, by which to hang it. 

Fruits for canning should be perfectly fresh and 
free from blemish, and not overripe and of the best 
quality. For canning fruit allow one-third its weight 
in sugar and three cupfuls of water to each pound 
of sugar. Boil the sugar and water in a preserving 
kettle for ten minutes to make a thin syrup, then 
cook a small quantity of the fruit at a time in the 
syrup, this keeps the fruit in perfect shape. Place the 
jars on a cloth wrung out of hot water and fill with 
the fruit and enough syrup to overflow the jars, if 
there is not sufficient syrup to overflow the last jar 
to be filled add the boiling water as the jar must be 
filled to overflowing. Introduce the handle of a 
silver spoon between the fruit and jar that the air 
bubbles may rise to the top and break, then very 
quickly put on the rubbers and covers that have been 
sterilized, and take care that the jars are air tight. 



A FEW RULES TO OBSERVE 

Never use left-over rubbers. 

Be sure the covers of fruit-jars are in perfect con- 
dition. 

Never under any circumstances use tin. 

Wash and sterilize, jars, covers and rubbers. 

Buy absolutely fresh perfect fruit, not over ripe for 
preserving or jelly making. 

Granite ware is the only ware to use in cooking. 

Tinned goods of all kinds, as soon as opened, 
should have the contents turned out into a china or 
granite-ware vessel. 

Never be without a jelly bag. 

The best covers for jelly tumblers are made by 
cutting letter paper into circular pieces just to fit in 
the top of the jelly glasses. Dip in brandy and 
cover the jelly. Put on second covers made of circu- 
lar pieces cut larger than the glasses, and fasten 
securely over the edge with paste, or tie with twine. 

Wooden spoons are the thing for preserving, silver 
ones for the testing of jelly. 

Sugar for jelly making should be put in a granite 
pan, placed in the oven leaving the oven door ajar and 
stirred often, till it seems warm and dry. This quick- 
ens the process of making juice jellies. 

CURRANT JELLY 

Currants to be used for jelly-making should be un- 
derripe rather than overripe, and should not be picked 
directly after a rain. Cherry currants are usually 
considered to make the best jelly. Equal proportions 
of red and white currants are desirable, making a light- 
er colored jelly than as if all red ones are used. Pick 
over the currants, but do not remove the stems;' wash 
and drain. Mash a few in the bottom of a preserving 



Fruits, Jellies, Preserves 173 

kettle using a wooden masher, and so continue until 
all the berries are used. Bring slowly to the boiling 
point, and let simmer until the currants look white. 
Strain through a coarse strainer, then allow the juice 
to drop through a jelly-bag. Measure the juice, 
bring to the boiling point, and let boil five minutes. 
Add an equal measure of heated sugar, boil three min- 
utes, skim, and pour into sterilized glasses, set on a 
cloth wrung out of hot water. Place in a sunny win- 
dow and let stand twenty-four hours, then cover. 

RASPBERRY JELLY 

Wild raspberries as well as wild strawberries, make 
the best jellies. They should not be overripe, should 
be among the first pickings, and not gathered directly 
after a rain. In making raspberry jelly, one has to 
but follow the recipe for currant jelly, using raspber- 
ries in place of currants. When currants and raspber- 
ries are used in equal proportions a delicious jelly 
is the result. 

GRAPE JELLY 

Stem and pick over the grapes carefully. Mash well, 
and pour all into a preserving kettle and cook slowly 
for ten minutes to extract the juice. Strain through a 
colander, and then through a jelly-bag, keeping it as 
hot as possible as it jellies much quicker. A few 
quince seeds boiled with the grapes the first time tend 
to stiffen it. Allow a pound of loaf sugar to every 
pint of juice, and boil fast for twenty-five minutes. 
Try a little on a cold dish and when it seems done, 
remove and put into jelly glasses. 

QUINCE JELLY < 

Wipe the quinces, remove stem and blossom ends, 
cut in quarters and remove the seeds. Put in a granite 



174 Just for Two 

ware preserving kettle, and add cold water to come 
nearly to the top of the fruit. Cover, and cook slowly 
until the fruit is soft. Mash and drain through a 
coarse sieve; then allow the juice to drip through a 
jelly-bag. Boil for twenty minutes, add an equal 
quantity of heated sugar, boil for five minutes, skim. 
Let stand twenty-four hours in a light place, then 
cover. 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY 

Follow recipe for quince jelly, having the fruit 
whole, instead of cutting in quarters. 

PLUM JELLY 

To one peck of plums add three pints of water, boil 
until soft, pour into a jelly bag and let it drip, but do 
not squeeze. Take equal weights of juice and sugar, 
and boil twenty minutes or until it jellies. 

SPICED PEACHES 

Five pounds of peaches, two and a half pounds of 
sugar, one-quarter of a pint of cider vinegar, a quar- 
ter of an ounce of stick cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce 
of whole cloves, a quarter of a teaspoonful of whole 
allspice, and an eighth of a nutmeg broken into bits. 
Boil the sugar and vinegar together fifteen minutes. 
Put in enough peeled peaches to cover the bottom of 
the kettle and cook gently until a straw will pierce 
them easily. Skim the peaches out very carefully. Put 
them on a hot platter and cook the remainder of the 
peaches in the same way. When done, drain off the 
juice, put it in the kettle, boil up, and skim. Put the 
peaches in a stone jar, pour the hot syrup over them, 
tie the spices in a bag and lay on top. Cover closely, 
and in five days pour off the juice, boil up, and pour 
hot over the peaches. Cover tightly, with heavy 
brown paper or a coarse cloth. Keep in a cold, dry, 
dark place. 



Fruits, Jellies, Preserves 175 

CANNED PEACHES 

Above all, peaches must be spotless and not too 
ripe. Peel carefully, but do not stone them, as it adds 
to the flavor. Allow one pint of water and one cupful 
of sugar to every quart of peaches. Boil sugar and 
water for fifteen minutes; then add the peaches a few 
at a time and boil gently, and when a broom straw will 
pierce them easily they have cooked enough. Put the 
pea'ches in jars that have been well heated with boil- 
ing water, put the peaches in two-thirds full. Boil and 
skim the syrup and pour over the peaches until the jars 
are full. Seal at once. Keep canned goods in a cool, 
dark place, the darker the better. 

PRESERVED PEACHES 

Select sound, ripe peaches. Peel, halve, and stone 
them. For every quart of peaches an equal amount of 
sugar. To every three pounds of sugar, add one cup- 
ful of boiling water. Melt, and boil fifteen minutes. 
Then drop in the peaches and cook them until a straw 
will pierce them easily. Skim carefully and put into 
heated jars. Boil and skim the syrup eight minutes 
longer, fill the jars with the syrup and seal. 

A good plan is to halve and stone them before peel- 
ing or take a dozen or more peaches and scald them 
by pouring boiling water over them and let stand two 
minutes, no longer. In this way they will easily peel. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES 

Take large, ripe cherries, and to each pound of cher- 
ries allow a pound of loaf sugar. Stone the cherries 
and save the juice that comes from them in the proc- 
ess. As you stone them, throw them into a large pan 
or tureen and throw half the sugar over them and let 
them lie in it two hours after they are all stoned. 
Then put them in the kettle with the remainder of 



176 Just for Two 

the sugar. Boil and skim them till the fruit is clear 
and the syrup thick. Put away in tightly sealed jars. 

PRESERVED WATERMELON 

Take the thick rind of a ripe watermelon, cut it into 
small strips, cut off all the red part and scrape the out- 
side. Boil the rind with peach leaves and saleratus — 
twelve leaves and one teaspoonful of saleratus to two 
quarts of water. This will turn them green. Boil till 
tender, then take them out and put them into cold wa- 
ter with a half tablespoonful of alum dissolved in it to 
make them brittle. Let them soak one hour. Then 
rinse them in clear water and boil fifteen or twenty 
minutes in a syrup of equal parts of sugar and water 
adding lemons cut into small pieces, allowing one 
lemon to two pounds of rind. When cool, add a little 
extract of ginger. Let them stand three days. Then 
pour the syrup off, boil it till very rich, and just cover 
the rinds. Pour on boiling hot. 

PRESERVED CITRON 

Pare the green rind from the citron, scrape the in- 
side well, cut into pieces not more than two inches 
long, boil in clear water till easily pierced -with a 
straw; make a syrup of one pound sugar to every 
pound fruit, one-half pint water to each pound sugar, 
juice of one lemon, one-half ounce ginger to each pound 
fruit; boil all together till the citron is transparent, and 
bottle while hot; tie the ginger in a cheesecloth bag, 
and take out before canning the preserves. 

PRESERVED QUINCES 

Pare, core and quarter your fruit, then weigh it and 
allow an equal quantity of white sugar. Take the par- 
ings and cores and put in a preserving kettle; cover 



Fruits, Jellies, Preserves 177 

them with water and boil for half an hour; then strain 
through a hair sieve, and put the juice back into the 
kettle and boil the quinces in it a little at a time until 
they are tender, litt out as they are done with a drainer 
and lay on a dish; if the liquid seems scarce, add more 
water. When all are cooked, throw into this liquor 
the sugar,, and allow it to boil ten minutes before put- 
ting in the quinces; let them boil until they change 
color, say one hour and a quarter, on a slow fire; while 
they are boiling occasionally slip a silver spoon under 
them to see that they do not burn, but on no account 
stir them. Have two fresh lemons cut in thin slices, 
and when the fruit is being put in jars lay a slice or 
two in each. Quinces may be steamed until tender. 



PRESERVED EGG PLUMS 

Use a pound of sugar for a pound of plums; wash 
the plums and wipe dry; put the sugar on a slow fire 
in the preserving kettle, with as much water as will 
melt the sugar and let it simmer slowly; then prick 
each plum thoroughly with a needle, or a fork with 
fine prongs and place a layer of them in the syrup; let 
them cook until they lose their color a little and the 
skins begin to break; then lift them out with a per- 
forated skimmer and place them singly in a large 
dish to cool; then put another layer of plums in the 
syrup and let them cook and cool in the same manner, 
until the whole are done; as they cool, carefully re- 
place the broken skins so as not to spoil the appear- 
ance of the plums; when the last layer is finished, 
return the first to the kettle, and boil until trans- 
parent: do the same with each layer; while the latest 
cooked are cooling, place the first in glass jars; 
when all are done, pour the hot syrup over them; 
when they are cold, close as usual; the jelly should 
be of 1 ie color and consistency of rich wine jelly. 



178 Just for Two 

PRESERVED LEMONS 

Select large, juicy lemons having skins of medium 
thickness. Soak them for a few moments, then scrub 
with a soft brush to insure perfect cleanliness. Drop 
into boiling water and boil granulated sugar with one- 
half its measure of water until it forms a soft ball when 
tested in cold water. Drain the lemons, drop into the 
syrup and simmer for fifteen minutes. Take from the 
fire for an hour, reheat and simmer another fifteen 
minutes. Repeat this twice more, with an hour inter- 
val between each cooking, then set away over night. 
Drain off and measure the syrup; add one-quarter its 
volume of sugar and repeat the four boilings of the 
day before. Transfer the lemons to fruit jars. Seal at 
once. 

PRESERVED CRANBERRIES 

The cranberries must be large and ripe. Wash them 
and to six quarts of cranberries allow nine pounds of 
the best loaf sugar. Take three quarts of the cran- 
berries and put them into a stew pan with a pint and 
a half of water. Cover the pan and boil or stew them 
till they are all to pieces. Then squeeze the juice 
through a jelly bag. Put the sugar into a preserv- 
ing kettle, pour the cranberrjr juice over it and let it 
stand until it is all melted, stirring it up frequently. 
Then place the kettle over the fire and put in the re- 
maining three quarts of whole cranberries. Let them 
boil till they are tender, clear and of a bright color, 
skimming them frequently. When done, put them in- 
to jars with the syrup, which should be like a thick 
jelly. 

TO PRESERVE BERRIES WHOLE 

Buy the fruit when not too ripe, pick over im- 
mediately, wash if absolutely necessary and put in 
glass jars, filling each one about two-thirds full. Put 



Fruits, Jellies, Preserves 179 

in the preserving kettle a pound of sugar and one 
cupful of water for every two pounds of fruit, and 
let it come to a boil. Pour this syrup into the jars 
over berries, filling them up to the brim; then set the 
jars in a pot of cold water on the stove, and let the 
water boil and the fruit become scalding hot. Now 
take them out and seal perfectly tight. If this pro- 
cess is followed thoroughly, the fruit will keep for 
several years. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Slice with a sharp knife nine oranges and six lemons 
cross-wise as thin as possible; remove the seeds 
and put in a preserving kettle with four quarts of 
cold water. Cover and let stand for thirty-six hours. 
Let boil for two hours, add eight pounds of sugar, 
and then let boil for two hours. Turn into jelly 
glasses. 

PLUM MARMALADE 

After the juice is taken from the plums, rub the pulp 
through a collander. To this add an equal amount of 
sugar and boil twenty minutes. Put up like jelly. 

QUINCE MARMALADE 

Wipe the fruit, remove the stem and blossom ends, 
cut in quarters and remove the seeds. Put in a gran- 
ite-ware preserving kettle, and add nearly water enough 
to cover the fruit. Cook slowly until soft. Rub 
through a hair sieve, and add three-fourths of its meas- 
ure of heated sugar. Cook slowly twenty minutes, 
stirring occasionally to prevent burning. Put into 
sterilized jelly glasses. 

QUINCE HONEY 

Pare and grate five large quinces. To two cupfuls 
of boiling water add five pounds of granulated sugar. 



180 Just for Two 

Stir over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, add the 
quinces and cook fifteen minutes. Turn into sterilized 
jelly glasses. When cold it should be about the 
color and consistency of honey. 

RASPBERRY JAM 

Pick over the raspberries. Mash a few in the bottom 
of a preserving kettle, using a wooden masher, and 
so continue until all the fruit is used. Heat slowly 
to the boiling point, and add gradually an equal 
quantity of heated sugar. Cook slowly forty minutes 
and put in a stone jar or jelly tumblers. 

CANNED FRUIT JUICES 

Canned fruit juices are an excellent substitute for 
brandy or wine in all puddings and sauces, etc. 

It is a good plan to can pure juices of fruit in the 
summer time, putting it by for this purpose. 

Select clean fruit, press out the juice and strain it 
through a flannel cloth. To each pint of juice add 
one cupful of white granulated sugar. Put it in a 
porcelain kettle, bring it to the boiling point, and bot- 
tle while hot in small bottles. It must be sealed very 
tight while it is hot. Will keep a long time, the same 
as canned fruit. 

UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE 

Wash, pick over and drain ten pounds of grapes, 
from which the stems have been removed. Put into 
a preserving kettle, and add one cupful of cold water. 
Heat until the stones and pulp separate, then strain 
through a jelly-bag; add three pounds of granulated 
sugar, heat to the boiling point, and bottle. Ten 
pounds of grapes will make one gallon of grape juice. 



Fruits j Jellies, Preserves, Etc. 181 

AMBROSIA 

Two sweet oranges peeled and sliced, four slices of 
pineapple, and a half cupful of grated cocoanut. Place 
alternate layers of orange and pineapple with the 
grated cocoanut between, and sprinkle pulverized 
sugar over each layer. This is delicious. 

RASPBERRIES 

There is no more delicious fruit than the red rasp- 
berry, not one which can be served in a greater variety 
of ways. Below are given a number of reliable rec- 
ipes: 

Raspberry Float. — Mash a pint of red raspberries; 
add two-thirds cup of sugar. Beat the whites of four 
eggs until stiff, then add one-third cup of fine sugar. 
Rub the crushed berries through a sieve and add slow- 
ly one spoonful at a time of the juice to the eggs, beat- 
ing slowly and constantly, until the mixture will stand 
alone. Serve on a fancy dish well chilled. 

Raspberry Cream. — Crush a pint of fresh red rasp- 
berries and rub them through a sieve to remove all 
seeds. Place a pint of cream in a double boiler until 
it reaches the boiling point, then stir slowly into the 
raspberry juice; add one-half cup of sugar or more if 
preferred, and cool. Pour into sherbet glasses and 
place on top of each a spoonful of whipped cream. 

Red Raspberry Shortcake. — Make a crust, allowing 
one heaping tablespoonful of butter and one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder to every cup of flour. Roll thin 
and bake on a large pie plate or tin; spread butter be- 
tween the two layers so they can be separated without 
cutting; spread agaia with butter and fill with fresh 
raspberries, which hare stood with sugar over them for 
one-half hour or longer. Serve at once. 

Raspberry and Currant Shrub. — Mix together one 
quart of red raspberries and one pint of red currants, 



1 82 Just for Two 

both of which are very ripe. Heat over the fire, mash 
and squeeze through a jelly bag; strain until clear. 
Add two cups of granulated sugar and two cups of 
water which have been boiled together until clear. 
When ready to serve add two quarts of ice water. 

Raspberry Shrub.— Place in a stone jar six quarts of 
raspberries, cover with a pure cider vinegar and let 
stand twenty-four hours, then strain through a jelly 
bag. Place six quarts of fresh berries in the juice and 
let them remain there twenty-four hours; squeeze 
through a jelly bag and afterwards through a cheese- 
cloth. Allow one pound of sugar to each pint of juice. 
Place in a porcelain kettle over the fire and let it boil 
rapidly ten minutes; remove with a skimmer anything 
which rises on it; pour into bottles and seal. One 
cup of this added to one quart of water makes a pleas- 
ant drink in hot weather. 

Raspberry Sauce. — For sponge or other pudding. 
One cup of powdered sugar, one-half-cup of butter 
beaten to a cream until very light, then add the well 
beaten white of one egg and one small cup of crushed 
red raspberries very slowly. Chill on ice for three or 
four hours before serving. 



RELISHES 

CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Select small cucumbers, wash and wipe them, tip -the 
ends, but do not peel. Slice thin and pack into pint 
jars. When full to the top, add one tablespoonful of 
salt and one of whole white mustard seed, pour over 
enough vinegar to cover. Cover tightly and put away 
in a cool, dry place. Do not open in less than two 
weeks. Excellent. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES 

Three quarts of green tomatoes sliced in inch-thick 
slices, one pint of white onions, and four green pep- 
pers sliced thinly. Put them with salt in layers in an 
earthen jar to stand over night. Use a half cupful of 
fine table salt. In the morning drain an hour in a col- 
ander, then put them into a kettle, pour over them one 
pint and a half of cider vinegar, add a quarter of a cup- 
ful of sugar, a half tablespoonful of whole cloves, a 
quarter of an ounce of stick cinnamon broken into bits, 
and a few allspice, tied up in bag. Cook slowly for 
twenty minutes. Just before removing from the fire 
add half an ounce of mustard seed, stir lightly with a 
wooden spoon, and put away in an earthen jar well 
covered for three weeks, in a cool place. Then put 
it on the stove again and boil up with a quarter of a 
cupful of sugar and seal in hot jars. 

WATERMELON PICKLES 

Cut the melon into any shape desired. Make a weak 
solution of alum and pour over it, let it stand twenty- 
four hours, then scald in clear water and drain. To 



1 84 Just for Two 

« 
seven pounds of rind, take one quart of good cider 
vinegar, four pounds of sugar and a half pint of ginger 
root. Put in the rind and boil until it looks nice and 
clear, then remove the rind to a jar, boil the liquid 
until it is a rich syrup, and pour over the rind. When 
cool cover the jar tightly and set away in a cool place. 

PICKLED GREEN PEPPERS 

Take one dozen large, green, bell peppers, extract 
the, seeds by cutting a slit in the sides so as to leave 
them whole. Make a. strong salt brine and pour over 
them, and let stand twenty-four hours, then take them 
out of the brine and soak in water sixteen hours. Turn 
off the water and scald a pint of vinegar, in which put 
a small piece of alum and pour over them, letting them 
stand three days. Prepare a stuffing of one hard head 
of white cabbage, chopped very fine, and seasoned with 
a little salt and a half cupful of white mustard 
seed. Mix all well and stuff the peppers hard and full, 
then stitch up each pepper with a darning needle and 
coarse thread, place them in a stone jar and pour over 
the spiced vinegar scalding hot. Cover tightly. 

CHILI SAUCE 

Select eighteen large, ripe tomatoes, five good-sized 
onion's, and two red peppers; chop fine, and add two 
tablespoonfuls of salt, one tablespoonful each of cin- 
namon, cloves and allspice (ground), an eighth of an 
ounce of mace broken into bits. Mix all thoroughly, 
then add one pound of brown sugar and three and a 
half cupfuls of vinegar and half an ounce of ginger. 
Put into a granite kettle. Cook till thick as catsup, 
stirring often, but do not strain. Put away in tightly 
corked bottles or jars. 

PICKLED ONIONS 

Peel small onions until they are white. Scald them 
in salt and water until tender, then take them up, put 



Relishes 185 

them into wide-mouthed bottles, and pour over them 
hot spiced vinegar; when cold, cork them close. Keep 
in a dry, dark place. A tablespoonful of sweet oil may- 
be put in the bottles before the cork. The best sort 
of onions for pickling are the small white buttons. 

SPICED CHERRIES 

Select fine large cherries; wash well and drain five 
pounds; boil one quart vinegar with two pounds sugar, 
two ounces white cloves and the rind of lemon peeled 
thinly; tie the spices in bit of cheesecloth, simmer all 
together for twenty minutes; when boiling hot pour 
over the cherries; cover closely and let stand till the 
next day; drain off the juice and boil again, and pour 
boiling hot over the cherries; repeat this twice more 
and seal. These are delicious. 

SPICED CURRANTS 

Four pounds of fruit, three pounds of brown sugar, 
half a pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful each of 
ground cloves and cinnamon. Put in an agate sauce- 
pan and boil slowly two hours. Be very careful not 
to burn; stir often. Put away in tightly covered jars. 

RED CURRANTS WITH ORANGES AND 
RAISINS 

Five pounds of currants, three and one-half pounds 
of sugar, one pound of raisins, three pounds of or- 
anges. Wash and stem currants, stone raisins, and cut 
oranges into small pieces. Boil the currants twenty 
minutes; add the raisins and cook a little longer, then 
add the sugar and let it come to a boil, then put in the 
oranges. Remove from the fire and put in jelly 
glasses. This recipe fills fifteen glasses. 



CANDIES AND CONFECTIONS 



HOLIDAY CANDY-MAKING AT HOME 

The cream candies should be put into a closely cov- 
ered dish as soon as cold, and they are much better 
after being kept this way for several days. Hore- 
hound, butter-scotch, taffy, etc., should also be kept 
covered, as this prevents them from becoming moist 
and sticky. 

Fondant is the foundation for innumerable kinds of 
cream candies and is made as follows: 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of hot 
water, and one-third of a teaspoonful of cream of tar- 
tar. Place on the back of the stove and stir until thor- 
oughly dissolved. If there are any grains around the 
sides of the pan, clean off with a damp cloth before let- 
ting it come to a boil. Boil over a quick fire until a 
little of it dropped into cold water will make a soft 
ball. Remove the mixture from the fire and put it 
aside to cool, leaving it in the dish in which it was 
cooked. Do not put it into cold water to cool. When 
cool (not cold) stir until it becomes a thick creamy 
mass. When it is too hard to stir any more, take it 
into the hands and knead. Kneading the fondant has 
somewhat the same effect on the candy as kneading 
dough has upon bread; it makes it light and smooth. 
Then put it into an earthen dish, cover with a slightly 
dampened cloth and let stand until desired for use. It 
will be better after standing for two or three days, and 
it will keep for a week or more. If the fondant is 
grainy after being stirred, put more water with it, dis- 



Candies and Confections 187 

solve again and cook as before, taking care not to jar 
the pan either while it is cooking or cooling. 

For pink fondant use the same proportions as for the 
white, adding half a tablespoonful of pink sugar, which 
can be bought of a confectioner and is inexpensive, a 
small quantity lasting a long time. 

For maple fondant use: Two cupfuls of light-brown 
(coffee C) sugar, a cupful of maple syrup, a cupful of 
hot water and one-third of a teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar. This is more easily made than either of the 
other kinds, as the brown sugar is more moist than 
the white and is not as likely to grain. It is, therefore, 
a good one with which to begin. 

NUT WAFERS 

Use white fondant for these. It is not well to melt 
too much at a time, because it will get hard before you 
can drop it all. Have ready over the fire a pan with 
about half an inch of water in it. Put the fondant into 
a small stew-pan and place the pan in the water for the 
fondant to melt. Flavor with vanilla, stir in broken 
walnut meats and drop from a spoon on parafine paper. 
Pecan nuts, black walnuts, hickory nuts, etc., may also 
b£ treated in this way. 

COCOANUT WAFERS 

Use white fondant. Melt, flavor with vanilla and 
mix in shredded cocoanut until quite stiff; then drop on 
paraffine paper. 

PEPPERMINT AND WINTERGREEN 
WAFERS 

Use white fondant, or pink for the wintergreen, if 
preferred. Melt, flavor with two or three drops of 
peppermint or wintergreen oil and drop on the paper 
in small round wafers. These are very nice and are 



1 88 Just for Two 

more quickly made than any of the others, as well as 
less expensive. Maple wafers may be made in the same 
way, but no flavoring is necessary for them. 

WALNUT CREAMS 

These may be made with either the white or maple 
fondant. Roll a piece of the fondant into a ball and 
press well into each side half walnut meat, then lay 
aside on paraffine paper to harden. The white fondant 
should have a few drops of vanilla worked into it be- 
fore being made up into balls. 

OPERA CREAMS 

Two cups sugar, one cup cream and boil till it 
makes a soft ball when dropped in water. Flavor with 
vanilla, stir till cool, then work on the bread board. 
Spread on a plate and cut in squares. 

CREAM TAFFY 

Take two pounds of light brown sugar; pour over it 
enough cold water to cover it well before putting it 
over the fire; after it begins to boil add a tablespoonful 
of vinegar; just before the taffy is done put in a lump 
of butter the size of a small egg; cook till it will be 
quite hard when dropped into cold water. Do not stir 
at all or the taffy will be sugar before pulled. Remove 
from the fire and put in flavoring; pour quickly into 
well buttered platters and set in a cool place. Begin 
to pull as soon as it is possible to take it into the hands. 
The quicker it is pulled the better it will be. If a fla- 
vor is desired add one tablespoonful of grated choco- 
late to each platter just after it is poured out. As the 
taffy is pulled the chocolate will mix with it. Pull as 
long as possible, till it is quite hard and very white, 
and cut in small pieces; put aside for several hours. 
It will cream nicely. 



Candies and Confections 189 

BUTTER SCOTCH 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar, one cupful of Gold- 
en Drip syrup, half a cupful of butter. Cook the in- 
gredients until they make a hard ball when dropped 
into water. Pour into buttered pans, having the candy 
about half an inch thick. Cut into sauares when cool 
and wrap in paraffine paper. 

FUDGE 

Two cups sugar and one cup cream or milk, one- 
fourth pound chocolate unsweetened, small piece of 
butter; when it begins to boil stir constantly; when it 
hardens slightly in water take from range; flavor with 
vanilla and stir till cool; turn on a buttered tin; when 
cold cut in squares. 

WALNUT PANOUCHI 

Four cups of light brown sugar, one-half cup cream 
or milk. Boil five minutes. Put in one cup chopped 
walnut meats, boil about three minutes, then take off 
and stir until cool and thick enough to put on buttered 
platter. 

COCOANUT CANDY 

Two cups sugar and one-half cup water; boil till it 
crisps in water; then remove from range and stir till 
creamy; add one grated cocoanut and turn in buttered 
tin; when cold cut in squares; use this cream for pep- 
permint cream; flavor with essence of peppermint. 

MAPLE CANDY 

One cup maple sugar, one-half cup cream; boil till it 
creams and when stirred drop by teaspoonfuls on a 
buttered dish; place one-half English walnut on each 
piece candy. 



i go Just for Two 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

One cup of grated chocolate, one cup of molasses, 
one cup brown sugar, butter size of small egg; put all 
in saucepan, except chocolate; test by dropping in cold 
water; when done pour on buttered pans. 

HOME CARAMELS 

One-half pint baker's chocolate grated, one-half pint 
sugar, one-half pint molasses, one-half gill milk and 
butter size of an^egg; boil till it hardens in water. 

BRANDY TUTTI FRUTTI 

Just before strawberry season put one quart of bran- 
dy and three pounds of sugar in a three gallon jar; stir 
this frequently and when strawberries are ripe hull 
three pounds and put them in the jar, with three pounds 
of sugar. Always add an equal weight of fruit and sug- 
ar. Add each fruit in season. Stone the cherries; 
plums must be cut in pieces; peaches and apricots 
pared and sliced; pineapples are a delicious addition. 
This mixture must be covered closely in a cool place 
and stirred every day until the jar is full. Serve with 
ice cream and blanc manges. 

KISSES 

Six ounces of powdered sugar, three ounces of but- 
ter; beat to a cream. Add whites of three eggs, well 
beaten, soda size of a pea dissolved in a little hot wat- 
er, flour to roll in a thin sheet; cut in small cakes. 

EXTRA GOOD KISSES 

Whites of eight eggs beaten stiff, one pound pulver- 
ized sugar. Flavor to taste and beat the sugar in by the 
teaspoonful; after adding the sugar beat one hour. 
The kisses to be light and crisp should bake thirty 
minutes. 



Candies and Confections 191 

TO CANDY FRUITS OR NUTS 

Boil in an agate sauce pan, one pound granulated 
sugar and one gill butter, till a drop of syrup is brittle 
in ice water; add a tablespoonful of lemon juice to the 
syrup and set the sauce pan in a pan of boiling water; 
take each piece of fruit with the sugar tongs; dip into 
the syrup till each piece is covered; then lay on waxed 
paper to dry. 

CANDIED ORANGE PEEL 

When oranges are used save the peels by putting in 
a jar of salt and water; when there are what you wish 
to candy put them on the stove in cold water; boil up 
well and drain and put in clear water, changing till 
the bitter is out of the peel and they are tender; when 
tender chop and weigh; take pound for pound of sugar 
and orange peel; add a little water to dissolve the 
sugar; put in the peel and cook till clear; remove from 
the syrup and put on plates, with sugar, and set in 
warming closet to dry. 

HOREHOUND 

Packages of horehound can be bought of a drug- 
gist at trifling expense. Two-thirds of a teaspoonful of 
this steeped for a few minutes makes a flavor strong 
enough for three cupfuls of sugar. Use the propor- 
tions of a cupful of water to two cupfuls of sugar and 
half a teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Strain the tea 
carefully and pour it over the sugar; add water and 
cream of tartar and stir until thoroughly dissolved. 
Boil until when dropped into water it is very brittle 
and does not seem at all chewy. Pour into pans and 
mark into squares when cool. If covered, this will keep 
for weeks without getting sticky. Half a cupful of 
Coffee C sugar added to the granulated makes a better 
color for this candy. 



INVALID COOKING 

GRUELS 

Any kind of grain requires long, slow cooking. 

RICE GRUEL 

Two level tablespoonfuls of cracked or crushed rice, 
two cupfuls of boiling salted water. Cook two hours 
over hot water. Strain out the grains and dilute with 
milk or cream. Serve hot or cold. It is delicious with 
whipped cream. 

INDIAN MEAL GRUEL 

One quart boiling water, one tablespoonful flour, two 
tablespoonfuls white corn meal, one-half cupful cold 
water, one-half teaspoonful salt; mix the flour, meal 
and salt in the cold water, add to the boiling water and 
cook ten or fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. Re- 
move to the back of range and let cook half an hour 
longer, stirring it occasionally; strain through very 
fine sieve or cloth. To each cup of the gruel add one- 
half cup of milk, one-fourth teaspoonful of butter, 
more salt if needed, and a tiny bit of sugar if the gruel 
is liked better sweetened; a teaspoonful of whipped 
cream added to a cupful of gruel makes it more tempt- 
ing; place the cream on top of the cup just as it is 
ready to serve. 

OATMEAL GRUEL 

One cupful oatmeal, three pints cold water; boil 
slowly three hours or more until the oatmeal is creamy. 



Invalid Cooking 193 

Strain through a fine sieve, rubbing part of the oatmeal 
through. Do not try to rub too much or the gruel will 
be too thick. This can be set in the ice box and re- 
heated as needed, but it should be strained from the 
dish in which it is prepared into cups, as the jelly is 
apt to remain in little particles in the milk. For each 
cup of the prepared gruel add one-half cupful milk, 
one-fourth teaspoonful butter, salt to taste. One tea- 
spoonful sugar is considered an addition by some. 

BARLEY GRUEL 

Barley gruel is made the same as the oatmeal gruel, 
substituting washed barley for the oatmeaL 

EGG GRUEL 

Separate the yolk and white of an egg, beat both 
very stiff, add a few drops of lemon juice to the yolk, 
add one tablespoonful, more or less, of sugar to the 
beaten white, fold the white into the yolk and pour over 
all one cup of heated milk, beating rapidly all the time. 
Flavor as desired. 

MUSHES 

The following formula will apply to the cooking of 
all cereals. The importance of the long cooking of all 
starchy material cannot be too strongly emphasized. 

To one cupful of cereal, add one teaspoonful of salt. 
Have the water boiling rapidly, drop in the cereal slow- 
ly, that the water may not cease boiling, cook rapidly 
directly over the fire until the starch grains hare swol- 
len and burst open the cellulose pockets, and the mix- 
ture has thickened and settled. Now place the top of 
the double boiler over the lower part and steam from 
six to eight hours. The amount of water used should 
be one-fourth more than is given on the package. 

An attractive method of serving mush is to remove 
the core of an apple, making a large cavity, steam it 



194 Just for Two 

and when done fill the cavity with cooked cereal. If 
it is desired to serve more cereal, a wall of cereal may 
be formed around the apple. Serve with cream and 
sugar to taste. Dates, figs and raisins properly pre- 
pared may be served with the cereals. 

BEEF JUICE 

Beef juice obtained from best round steak, which 
has been merely heated through over the coals, and 
then entirely deprived of soluble substances by a meat 
press, is the most concentrated form of liquid food. If 
prepared with the most scrupulous neatness from the 
best materials and served at once, it leaves nothing to 
be desired. To prepare the press for use in making 
the beef juice, it should stand in boiling water for thir- 
ty minutes. 

Take beef from upper part of round, broil over coals, 
holding broiler close to the coals (when it is not pos- 
sible to have coals it may be broiled on a very hot pan) 
until well browned. Now put pieces in the press that 
has been standing in hot water, and press out the juices 
into a cup standing in hot water. Season with a little 
salt and pepper, and it is ready to serve. It is often 
offered to a sick person in a red glass, that the color 
may not be offensive. It may be taken to the sick room 
in a bowl of hot water that it may be served hot. Hot_ 
water added, it becomes beef tea. 

BEEF TEA 

Two pounds lean beaf, one and one-half quarts cold 
water; chop the beef fine, pour on the water, let stand 
one hour, then set back on the range and let come to 
a boil slowly. Simmer one hour, strain through cheese 
cloth, and season to taste. Serve very hot. 

TO CLARIFY BEEF TEA 
Add one-half white of egg slightly beaten to one pint 



Invalid Cooking 195 

of cold beef tea; let it come to a boil and strain through 
cheese cloth. 

BEEF BROTH 

A nutritious beef broth that can be kept a week in the 
winter is made in this way: Order three pounds of 
solid beef from the shoulder or shin and three pounds 
of bone from the shank. Have the butcher crack the 
latter. Trim off any dried pieces of skin or soft or 
bloody portions of meat, and put the bones and meat 
in a stone jar. Cover with four quarts of cold water, 
set in a slow oven and cook, covered, from eight to 
twelve hours. Strain and season with two teaspoonfuls 
of salt. Set aside, uncovered, to cool. If you wish to 
keep it for several days do not remove the fat, which 
will rise to the top and harden. Take out a little as 
needed, heat and serve very hot. 

BROILED TENDERLOIN 

Cut an inch slice of tenderloin, broil eight minutes 
over coals, turning every ten seconds. At the same 
time broil a small piece of round. Press the juice of the 
round over the tenderloin, season with butter, salt and 
lemon juice. A little minced parsley may be added. 

MUTTON BROTH 

One neck of mutton, one-fourth cupful pearl barley, 
one stalk celery, one onion, one sprig parsley, one tea- 
spoonful of salt; cover the meat with cold water after 
it is washed and cut into rather small pieces, add the 
washed barley; let it come to a boil slowly, add the 
vegetables cut small and one teaspoonful salt. Simmer 
until the meat drops from the bones; let the broth be- 
come cold. Remove every particle of fat, strain through 
cloth or fine wire sieve; boil, pour into cups and put 
a tablespoonful of whipped cream on each cup of the 
hot broth. 



196 Just for Two 

CLAM BROTH 

This will be found specially acceptable .before break- 
fast and it is so easily prepared that it can be made 
fresh daily. Procure a dozen clams in the shell, scrub 
well in cold water to remove every particle of sand, 
place in a saucepan, cover with boiling water — about a 
pint — and boil about fifteen minutes, or until all the 
clams are open. Take out the shells, chop the clams 
fine, skim the broth, return the clams to it, season to 
taste, with a tiny bit of butter or cream, pepper and 
salt, if necessary, and serve piping hot in a cup with 
toast or crackers. It may be necessary to strain the 
clams out entirely for one very ill, but all the proper- 
ties of the clam with the lime in the shells are pre- 
served in the broth. 

CHICKEN BROTH 

Heat one pint of chicken stock boiling hot. Beat 
two eggs and yolks well, add to boiling mixture and 
cook three minutes. Flavor with sherry and serve hot. 

CHICKEN JELLY 

Pound one-half raw chicken, bones and meat to-, 
gether, with a wooden potato masher or mallet. Heat 
slowly in three pints of cold water. Cover and cook 
until the meat is in shreds and the water reduced one- 
half. Strain through a hair sieve and season with 
pepper and salt, then let it simmer about five min- 
utes. When cold, skim, keep on ice, and serve with wa- 
fers. Very nourishing for the convalescent. 

CHICKEN CUSTARD 

To one-half pint of cream add one-half pint of strain- 
ed chicken stock; heat in a double boiler. When hot 
add the well beaten yolks of two eggs. Cook to the 
consistency of soft custard. Season with salt and turn 
into cups, and serve cold. 



Invalid Cooking 197 

SOUPS 

Milk soups are another way of serving hot milk, fla- 
vored with more or less pulp of the vegetables that 
grow above the ground, which are tender and rich in 
mineral substances. The milk should not be heated 
above 160 degrees Fahr. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

Cook celery until soft, mash and rub through a sieve. 

This is celery puree. Add five or six drops of onion 
juice to the puree. Melt one level tablespoonful of 
butter, add the same amount of flour and cook together 
until frothy. To the flour and butter add one-fourth of 
a cupful of celery puree and one-half cupful of boiling 
water and cook together five minutes, then add one- 
fourth cupful of milk anr .e same of cream. Heat to 
160 degrees Fahr. and serve seasoned with salt and 
pepper. 

GREEN PEA SOUP 

Cook together as above one-half tablespoonful of 
butter and flour, add one-fourth cupful of hot milk, cook 
until it thickens a very little, add two level tablespoon- 
fuls of cooked and strained pea-pulp, seasoned with 
one-eighth of a teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth of a 
teaspoonful of sugar. You may add a little whipped 
cream. Serve hot. 

BAKED CUSTARD 

Many cooks believe that the baked custard must be 
served in the baking dish or cup, and they never at- 
tempt to unmould it; this can be done easily if the 
mould is buttered before the custard is poured in. If 
the moulds are small the usual proportion of eggs is , 
sufficient, but if large, it is well to add one more egg 
to a quart of milk. Scald one pint of milk and pour 
over three beaten eggs, beaten with one-quarter cupful 



198 Just for Two 

of sugar, one-quarter level teaspoonful of salt, and one- 
half teaspoonful flavoring. Strain into buttered mould 
holding one and one-half pints. Set in a pan of hot 
water in a moderate oven and bake slowly until firm, 
then unmould onto a dish for serving. 

FLOATING ISLAND 

As the convalescent nears the pudding stage, an old- 
fashioned floating island is nourishing and digestible. 
Heat a pint and a half of milk in the double boiler un- 
til scalding, but do not allow it to boil. Beat the 
yolks of three eggs with four tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
and pour over the egg and sugar very gradually a. cup- 
ful of the hot milk. Return to the boiler with the rest 
of the milk and cook until it begins to thicken. When 
cooked flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla or orange 
and pour into a glass dish. Beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, adding a half cup of currant jelly, a 
teaspoonful at a time. Spread over the custard and 
place in a rather cool oven for a few moments to "'set." 

FRIZZLED EGGS 

Put a piece of butter the size of a small nut in a 
cup with a pinch of salt, a little white pepper. Break 
in two eggs without stirring. Cook in a pan of boiling 
water until the whites are set. Serve immediately. 

EGG NOG 

Beat three eggs, yolks and whites separately, mix the 
yolks with three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat well 
and then add one pint of rich milk and grated nutmeg, 
four teaspoonfuls of the best whiskey. Lastly whip in 
the whites of the eggs. 

EGG TOAST 

Brown a slice of bread nicely, dip in hot water slight- 
ly salted, butter it, and lay on top of this toast an egg 



Invalid Cooking 199 

that has been broken into boiling water and cooked 
until the white is hardened. Season the egg with a bit 
of butter and a little salt. 

The best way to cook an egg for an invalid is to 
drop it into boiling water, or pour boiling water over 
the egg in the shell and let it stand a few minutes on 
the back of the stove. 

EGG LEMONADE 

Separate white from yolk of egg. Beat the yolk until 
stiff and creamy. Add the juice of one lemon, beat 
thoroughly, add two level teaspoonfuls of sugar, fold in 
the white of the egg, beaten stiff and dry. Pour over 
shaved ice in a glass, let stand five minutes, and serve. 
The yolk may be omitted if too rich. 

IRISH MOSS LEMONADE 

Pick over and wash one-fourth of a cupful of Irish- 
moss, pour on one pint of boiling water and cook two 
hours, just below the boiling point, 200 degrees Fahr. 
Strain and add lemon juice and sugar to taste. Excel- 
lent for bronchial troubles. 

OYSTER TOAST 

Serve broiled oysters on cream toast and sprinkle 
with minced celery. 

CRUST COFFEE 

Dry stale, slices of bread in the oven until it is as 
brown as the coffee berry, but do not scorch it; pour 
boiling water over the bread and set on the back of the 
stove for a few minutes, where it will keep very hot 
but not boil. Pour off the liquid carefully and serve 
with cream and sugar. 



200 Just for Two 

TOAST WATER 

Toast brown bread without burning it and put into 
cold water; it will be ready for use in one hour; if pre- 
ferred sweet add loaf sugar to taste. 

APPLE DAINTY 

Wipe, quarter, pare and core apples; to each pint al- 
low one-third of a cupful of sugar, one-third cupful of 
cold water, a speck of cloves. Put into an earthen dish, 
cover tightly and bake slowly eight hours. When can- 
died and deep red in color pile lightly on a dish, and 
pour over a boiled custard, made with the yolks of 
three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one-half tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and one pint of scalded milk. Pile 
lightly over this the three whites, beaten with one 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar. 

ROSE GELATINE 

Use any brand of gelatine that has rose coloring, 
mould in long shallow granite pan, just thick enough to 
cut out heart shaped pieces with a cookie cutter. These 
come in heart shapes and can be used in cutting sand- 
wiches too. Serve with whipped cream not sweetened. 

FRUIT SYRUP 

A refreshing drink to use in fever cases may be made 
from dried peaches or apricots. Thoroughly wash 
one-half pound of the fruit, taking it piece by piece 
between the thumb and forefinger. Soak over night in 
one quart of water. In the morning simmer for half 
an hour, strain and chill. 

UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE 

Cover Concord grapes with cold water (after remov- 
ing from the stems and washing thoroughly in a col- 
ander), then boil until tender. Press the juice through 
a. wire sieve and add to it one cupful of sugar to every 



Invalid Cooking 201 

three quarts of fruit juice. Place over the fire, let just 
come to a boil, and bottle hot. Do not let grapes 
boil too long the first time, nor any more than boil up 
the last time, or the flavor will be impaired. Serve with 
cracked ice. For invalids, dilute one-half. 

WINE JELLY 

One ounce of gelatine, one and one-half quarts of 
water, one and one-half pounds of sugar, three lemons, 
two tumblers sherry wine, one wine glass brandy, one- 
fourth teaspoonful essence of cinnamon. Soak the 
gelatine in the water till thoroughly dissolved, add the 
sugar and the lemons cut in thin slices, the wine, bran- 
dy and cinnamon. Let it come just to a boil. Strain 
into moulds and set on ice to harden. 

LEMON JELLY 

One teaspoonful of granulated gelatine. Soak in two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, add four tablespoonfuls 
of boiling water, two tablespoonfuls sugar and the juice 
of one-half lemon. Turn into a mould and set in ice 
water to harden. 

SPONGE CAKE 

A good sponge cake served with cream or a glass of 
milk makes an excellent lunch for an invalid. To make 
the cake, beat six eggs and cup of sugar until perfectly 
perfectly creamy, light and white. Add a teaspoonful 
of flavoring, and two tablespoonfuls of cold water and 
beat again. Stir in lightly one cupful of sifted flour, 
with a scant teaspoonful of baking powder with it, but 
do not beat. Merely fold it in. Bake in a deep tin in a 
rather slow oven. 



THINGS WORTH KNOWING 

To clean sponges, wash them in diluted tartaric acid, 
rinsing them afterward in water; it will make them very- 
soft and white. 

Before buying tinned fruits and meats see if the top 
is flat or depressed. If the top has bulged out, then 
air has entered the tin and fermentation has set in. 

Vinegar should not be kept in a stone jar, as the 
acid may affect the glazing and the vinegar be rendered 
unwholesome. Glass jars are the best vinegar recep- 
tacles. 

Freshen the house by putting a few drops of oil of 
lavender in an ornamental bowl, then half fill it with 
very hot water. This will give a delightful freshness to 
the atmosphere. 

A good china cement is made by mixing with a strong 
solution of gum arabic and water enough plaster of 
paris to make a thick paste. This should be applied 
to the broken edges with a camel's-hair brush. 

When lighting a gas stove it will often give a slight 
explosion and light wrong, thus causing no heat. Turn 
the gas off very quickly, and on again. It will then 
light properly without any further trouble. 

If you have left boiled eggs in the water a little too 
long, break the top of the shell at once by patting it 
with a spoon. This lets out some of the heat, and the 
hardening process is stopped immediately. 



Things Worth Knowing 203 

A Paint Stained Dress. — If you happen to get wet 
paint on your dress, rub the stain at once with another 
piece of the same material, and the stain wrll entirely 
disappear. You can use another and covered part of 
the same garment. What happens to the paint it is 
difficult to say, but it certainly disappears. 

Grease Marks on Wall Papers. — These can be re- 
moved by applying a paste of pipeclay and water to the 
stains, and allowing this to dry on all one night or day. 
Then the powder should be gently brushed off without 
scraping the paper. 

To Clean Carved Ivory Articles. — The beauty of 
carved ivory curios is frequently spoiled on account of 
dust which collects in the interstices, so those who 
possess them will be pleased to hear of an excellent 
method of cleaning the ivory effectually. A paste 
should be made of sawdust, water and a few drops of 
lemon juice. This paste should be applied thickly all 
over the carving, and be permitted to dry on. When 
finally brushed off with a soft, firm brush, the prepara- 
tion will be found to have left the ivory pure and white 
once more. 

To Remove Rust Stains from Matting. — Cover the 
stain with paper and place a warm iron on this. When 
the spot is warm dip a glass rod in a bottle of muriatic 
acid and go over the rust spot with it, wetting every 
part with the acid. The spot will turn a bright yellow. 
Instantly wash it with an old toothbrush dipped in 
boiling water, rub dry with woolen cloths. Before be- 
ginning the work have all the appliances ready, and 
then work rapidly from start to finish. Muriatic acid 
corrodes metals, therefore keep the bottle corked tight 
when not using it. Two or three ounces of the acid 
will be ample. 

Flower vases can be easily purified and cleansed by 
rinsing them out with warm water and powdered char- 
coal. 



204 Just for Two 

When cutting new bread always put the knife in hot 
water first, and you will find that it facilitates the cut- 
ting. 

To Keep Clothespins New. — To prevent new clothes- 
pins from splitting, let them stand in cold water a 
few hours before using. 

A box filled with lime and placed on the shelf in a, 
pantry and frequently renewed will absorb the damp, 
and keep the air pure and dry. 

When weighing molasses for cooking purposes, if the 
scale is well floured first the syrup will run off quite 
smoothly, without leaving any stickiness behind. 

Good Polish for Oilcloth. — Save all candle ends and 
melt in the oven, mix with it sufficient turpentine to 
make a soft paste. This is excellent for linoleum, etc. 

Celery should be allowed to lie in cold water, to 
which a little salt has been added, for an hour before 
it is required for the table. This will make it very 
crisp. 

To Brighten Copperware. — A little crushed borax it 
sprinkled thickly on a flannel cloth that is wet with hot 
water and well soaped will brighten the copper like 
magic. 

To Darken Brown boots that have seen their best 
days rub all over with a piece of clean white flannel 
wet in ammonia. Do this twice, then polish with the 
usual brown liquid, and they will look as nice as ever. 

Tapestry-Covered Furniture. — To clean this, first 
brush thoroughly; then add a tablespoonful of ammonia 
to a quart of water. Wring a cloth out of this, and 
sponge thoroughly, rinsing and turning the cloth as 
it gets dirty, changing the water when necessary. This 
freshens and brightens it wonderfully. 



Things Worth Knowing 205 

Scrubbing Board Floors. — Plenty of soap and cold 
water and no soda are the secrets of success in wash- 
ing board floors and the wood must be scrubbed the 
way of the grain and not round and round, if you want 
to get the dirt off. Change the water often. You can't 
expect boards to be a good color if they are rinsed in 
dirty water. 

Few housekeepers pay the attention they should to 
their ice boxes. An ice box can be kept in perfect 
condition if it is thoroughly cleansed once a week, but 
twice is better. The box should be thoroughly washed 
with strong soda water, and the drain pipes should be 
washed out. An ice box should always be full of ice. 
It is the poorest economy to allow the supply to de- 
crease, and if sufficient ice is provided the box can be 
kept at an even temperature, which insures the preser- 
vation of the food it contains. There are people who, 
from a false idea of economy, fail to get the best re- 
sults from the use of ice and refrigerators. A common 
mistake is getting a small piece of ice every day or ev- 
ery other day, instead of filling the ice chamber two 
or three times a week. The small piece of ice cannot 
reduce the temperature sufficiently, and the result is 
that each new piece melts rapidly and the food cannot 
be kept. 

Tissue paper should never be thrown away. Save it 
all for polishing windows and mirrors, or for removing 
the first coating of grease from dishes previous to their 
immersion in the dishpan. 

Never use soda for washing china that has any gild- 
ing on it, for the soda will in time surely remove it all. 
Instead of soda, use a little soap; that has no bad effect. 

Put a teaspoonful of ammonia in a quart of water, 
wash your brushes and combs in this, and all grease 
and dirt will disappear. Rinse, shake, and dry in the 
sun, or by the fire. 



206 Just for Two 

To renovate leather furniture, wash it with soap and 
water, and when dry apply a little vaseline, rubbed in 
with the hand. Let it remain till next morning, then 
polish with a soft duster. This treatment will prevent 
the leather from cracking. 

Coal that is kept in a dry and airy place will burn 
much longer than that which is kept in a close cellar, 
with no ventilation. When coal remains long in an 
airless place it gets rid of its gas, and the absence of 
this renders it less powerful and more wasteful when 
burned. 

Carpets in svo^is which are seldom used are apt to 
be attacked by moths. Salt sprinkled around the 
edges and well under the carpet before it is put down 
will generally prevent their ravages. Plenty of light 
and air should be admitted into the rooms as moths 
favor close, dark places. 

Wet boots and shoes when taken off will last much 
longer if they are placed on their sides and allowed to 
dry, pulling the uppers as flat as possible. By this 
means the soles are exposed to the air and dry better. 
It is also a good plan, when one does not possess boot- 
trees, to fill the boots or shoes with soft, crumpled pa- 
per or oats, so that they will keep their shape. 

To prevent portieres catching under the door when 
opened quickly, screw a small ring (such as are used 
for picture frames) into the center of the door frame, 
and to this fasten a blind cord sufficently long to 
reach to the bottom of the curtain. Put another ring in 
center of the door at the top, thread cord through, and 
fasten to bottom of curtain. As the door is opened so 
the curtain rises. 

To keep ants, moths or any other insects out of the 
closets or pantry, sprinkle the shelves and corners with 
sassafras oil, and they will soon bid you "good-bye." 



Things Worth Knozving 207 

A fairly sizable piece of black velveteen, perhaps a 
quarter of a yard, makes the most satisfactory brush 
for silk that can be had; it removes the dust perfectly 
and yet does not injure the fabric. 

Care of Bath Rooms. — Plenty of fresh air and a gen- 
erous flushing of pipes, using disinfectants every two 
weeks at least. Copperas is the very best; dissolve a 
couple of pounds of crystals in a gallon of water, pour- 
ing it down the drains while hot. It has no odor, 
but will stain any clothing, and must be used with care. 

To make calico wash well infuse three gills of salt in 
four quarts of boiling water, and put in the calicoes 
while hot, and leave them till cold. In this way the 
colors are rendered permanent and will not fade by 
subsequent washing. 

To remove paint and putty from window glass put 
sufficient saleratus into hot water to make a strong 
solution and with this saturate the paint or putty, which 
adheres to the glass. Let it remain till nearly dry, then 
rub off with a woolen cloth. 

To disinfect a room from the smell of tobacco or 
closeness, place in an open mouthed jar one-half spirits 
of lavender and a lump of salt of ammonia, leaving 
it uncovered. It is excellent. 

If our lady readers wish to keep a bouquet fresh 
let them drop a teaspoonful of powdered charcoal into 
the water intended for the flower stalks, and they will 
keep their freshness and perfume for several days, and 
look and smell the same as those just gathered. The 
charcoal settles to the bottom of the vase, the water 
remaining clear. 

For burns nothing excels linseed oil and lime water. 
Dip cotton in the lotion and apply to burn and bandage. 



208 Just for Two 

For backache and pain in the chest the Belladonna 
and Capsicum plaster is the best and can be obtained 
at all drug stores. 

Many jewels require an occasional sleep, in order to 
retain their brilliancy. Diamonds, rubies, opals and sap- 
phires are among the number. They should be put 
away in total darkness every now and then. The usual 
velvet or satin lined cases are the correct receptacles. 
It is best to wrap them in jewelers' tissue paper, then 
pack them in wool and lay in air-tight compartments. 
A number of stones are seriously affected by fumes 
from furnaces, sewer gas, moisture, and sea air. 

The effect of ammonia on vegetation is very bene- 
ficial. If you desire your plants to become more flour- 
ishing, try it upon them by adding six drops to every 
pint of water you give them. Do not repeat this often- 
er than once in eight days, lest you stimulate them too 
highly. 

Two pounds of alum dissolved in three quarts of boil- 
ing water and applied to all cracks and crevices will 
keep out ants, roaches and bedbugs. 

To clean straw matting, use a coarse cloth dipped in 
salt and water. Wipe dry. The salt will keep the mat- 
ting from turning yellow. 

To remove ink stains, apply lemon juice and salt and 
lay the articles in the sun. 

No housekeeper should be without a bottle of spirits 
of ammonia, for besides its medical value, it is very de- 
sirable for household purposes. With a pint of suds 
mix a teaspoonful of spirits, dip in your silver knives, 
forks and spoons, and rub them with a brush and polish 
with a chamois skin. 

For washing mirrors and windows, put a few drops 
of ammonia on a piece of paper and it will readily take 
off every spot of finger marks on the glass. 



Things Worth Knowing 209 

Ammonia is a most refreshing agent at the toilet 
table. A few drops in a basin will make a better bath 
than pure water. 

Ammonia entirely absorbs all obnoxious smell so 
often arising from the feet in hot weather. 

To take spots from wash goods, rub them well with 
the yolk of an egg before washing. 

To take white spots from varnished furniture, hold 
a hot plate over them and they will disappear. 

Never allow meat to remain in paper; it absorbs the 
juices. 

To prevent the odor of cabbage or onion, throw red 
pepper pods into the pan they are cooking in. 

A package of Gold Dust and a cake of Sapolio should 
be kept in every kitchen, to be used freely on all dishes 
that require scouring and cleansing. 

Salt and beeswax will make rusty flatirons as clean 
and smooth as glass. Tie a lump of wax in a bag and 
keep it for the purpose. When the irons are hot, rub 
them first with the wax bag, then scour them with a 
paper or cloth sprinkled with salt. 

Blue ointment and kerosene mixed in equal propor- 
tions and applied to the bedsteads is an unfailing bed- 
bug remedy, as a coat of whitewash is for the walls of 
a log house. 

Kerosene will soften boots or shoes that have been 
hardened by water and make them pliable as new. 

When cheese becomes too hard, grate it and put it 
away in covered bottles, it is useful for macaroni. 

Salt toughens meat if added before it is done. 

Crackers are much more crisp if set in a hot oven a 
few minutes before serving. 



210 Just for Two 

If you value your own and your family's digestion, 
don't serve tea with fish. The tannic acid hardens the 
fibre and makes it indigestible. It should not be of- 
fered with any form of fish, shell-fish, or the articulate 
animals like lobsters and crabs. Iced tea and soft-shell 
crabs, for example, are a combination that should be a- 
voided. 

One of the dyed chamois-skins is an excellent lamp 
mat for a polished table — the rich red, green, or a cer- 
tain shade of peacock blue. A red one goes especially 
well with a lamp of Egyptian design. 

A recent addition to the list of savory salts is onion 
salt, which is now put up in shaker cans or bottles for 
flavoring use. 

As most of the people cook by gas perhaps the follow 
ing suggestions may be a help in the saving of gas. 
Puddings, pies, and beans can be baked well and at a 
small expense by using a small tin oven, such as comes 
for oil stoves. Place the oven over one of the single 
burners, and you will find it will give a very satisfactory 
bake with only a low flame. This little oven is fine for 
keeping the dishes warm and the victuals hot. 

Do not throw away bits of toilet soap. Get a quart or 
pint Mason jar and put in the bits of soap. Pour in al- 
cohol not quite enough to cover the soap. This will 
make a jelly which will be found very useful for the 
hands, in the bath, and for shampooing. Just before 
using add three drops of lavender or rose. 

To prevent flannels from turning yellow lay pieces 
of white wax in the folds of white flannel or swiss mus- 
lin. 

The following are a few of the many articles which 
should be in every household in case of emergency — es- 
pecially if a doctor is not to be obtainable immediately. 



Things Worth Knowing 211 

Absorbent cotton, bandanges of convenient length and 
width of old cotton (which every housekeeper has if 
carefully saved), old linen handkerchiefs, pieces of soft 
flannel, prepared mustard leaves, adhesive plasters, ar- 
nica, pure vaseline, collodion, witch-hazel, ammonia 
borax, ipecac, spirits camphor, aconite No. 3 labeled 
"poison." No 2 is invaluable in the household if admin- 
istered carefully in fever, ten drops in a glass of water, 
dose one teaspoonful each hour. Pure wine, whiskey, 
or brandy if occasion requires. 

The hot water bags are indispensable (and can be 
obtained at slight cost). One per cent solution of car- 
bolic acid is very useful (also a deadly poison) in cases 
of injury because of its cleansing qualities. If a cut is 
to be treated, the wound should be cleansed in clear 
tepid water, then rinsed with the carbolic solution, then 
painted with collodion, which staunches the blood and 
serves as a varnish to keep out air and any dirt. 

The solution of carbolic above mentioned is excel- 
lent for burns; saturate the cotton and put on to the 
afflicted spot, bandage and keep wet. 

Trifling injuries, whether cuts or tears, should be 
gently cleansed with luke warm water poured over the 
wound, then replace the skin or tissue, and lay a clean 
white cloth soaked in laudanum, or alcohol, or water 
over the injured part and loosely bind on. 

A cloth dipped in cold water and placed on the nape 
of the neck or a cold key, or a teaspoonful of salt in 
a cupful of water or vinegar may be snuffed up the nose, 
and rarely fails to stop the bleeding. Also, brown pa- 
per dipped in vinegar and placed on the nape of the 
neck will stop bleeding from the nose. 

To brown flour for gravies and soups, put a few table- 
spoonfuls of flour evenly in the bottom of a baker's 
pan, over a moderate fire, stir until it has become a 
fine amber brown. Bottle and keep for use. 



212 Just for Two 

Salt will curdle new milk, hence in preparing milk 
porridge, gravies, etc., the salt should not be added un- 
til the dish is prepared. Salt will remove stains from 
silver caused by eggs. Apply dry with a soft cloth. 

Take bread scraps before they have become musty and 
dry them in the oven. When thoroughly dry roll to a 
powder or through the food chopper, put into jars for 
breading, etc. 

To whip eggs well they must be very fresh and cold. 

HOUSEHOLD USES FOR REFINED PARAFFINE 

For Washing.— One-half teacup of paraffine wax 
shavings to one ordinary bar of washing soap both dis- 
solved in a little hot water, is sufficient for one boiler 
of washing. Pour this mixture when dissolved into the 
boiler of hot water (the best r< suits are obtained by dip- 
ping the clothes into cold water then wringing and 
putting into the boiler). Boil the clothes thirty min- 
utes, after which all that is required to have beautiful, 
white clothes is the usual sudsing, rinsing and bluing. 
Using Paraffine Wax as above will save hard rubbing 
and scrubbing. Will take the dirt out of your clothes 
without hard rubbing. Absolutely pure and will not in- 
jure the most delicate fabrics. Has no taste or odor. 
Just as important as soap for laundry work. 

For Ironing, a teaspoonful of melted paraffine wax 
mixed with hot starch insures a smooth, glossy fin- 
ish. 

Irons are kept smooth, bright and clean by rubbing 
them over small pads made of paraffine wax covered 
with cheesecloth or old linen. 

For Sealing Preserves. — When the jam or jelly is 
cool, wipe the inside rim of the glass with a cloth to 
insure perfect cleanliness; then pour in the melted par- 



Things Worth Knowing 2 1 3 

affine wax until it is about one-fourth of an inch thick. 
Let stand until the wax hardens and turns white. No 
other cover is necessary. If the fruit is thoroughly- 
cooled before pouring on the melted wax it will not 
mix with the fruit. 

For Cake and Pie Pans. — Warm the pans and rub the 
inside with Paraffine wax. This is superior to the old 
method of greasing the pans with butter. 

Stone jars with tight fitting covers make excellent 
bread boxes. 

Wash the refrigerator once a week with a little lye 
in the water as it cuts every thing away from the tubes, 
and leaves the ice box fresh and clean. 

Colored napkins are used when fruits are served. 
They do not show the stains as the white napkins do. 

Keep the dishes containing food closely covered and 
the refrigerator will be kept from odors. 

Vegetables to be cooked by boiling should be put into 
boiling water as little as possible, and if water is added 
let it be boiling hot. Steaming or baking is best for 
most vegetables, their finer flavors being retained. 

Wash lettuce carefully so as not to bruise, cutting 
each leaf from stalk, and put it in a closely covered 
stone jar. Set on ice or in a cool place. Each day 
look over the lettuce, rinse in fresh cold water and re- 
turn to jar. Lettuce and celery thus prepared will keep 
for nearly a week. 

Set asparagus bunches in a few inches of cold water 
to, keep fresh, the water should not come more than 
half way up to the stalks. When ready to cook, wash 
thoroughly in several waters to get out the sand. 



214 J ust f or Two 

HOUSEHOLD WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

4 Teaspoonfuls equal one tablespoonful of liquid. 

4 Tablespoonfuls equal one wine glass or one-half gill. 

2 Wine glasses equal one gill or half a cup. 

2 Gills equal I coffeecupful or 16 tablespoonfuls. 

2 Coffeecupfuls equal one pint. 

2 Pints equal one quart. 

4 Quarts equal one gallon. 
2 Tablespoonfuls equal one ounce of liquid. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of salt equal one ounce. 
16 Ounces equal I pound or I pint of liquid. 

4 Coffeecupfuls of sifted flour equal one pound. 

1 Quart of unsifted flour equals one pound. 

i Pint granulated sugar equals one pound. 

2 Coffeecupfuls of powdered sugar equal one pound. 
I Coffeecupful of cold butter equals one-half pound. 

1 Tablespoon of soft butter, well rounded, equals i oz. 
i Pint of chopped meat, solidly packed equals I pound. 

25 Drops of liquid will fill an ordinary sized teaspoon. 
An ordinary tumblerful equals one-half pint. 

4 Teaspoonfuls equal one tablespoonful. 

i Tablespoonful of flour equals one-half ounce. 

2 Tablespoonfuls of ground spice equal one ounce. 

5 Nutmegs equal one ounce. 

i Teacupful of rice equals one-half pound. 

i Teacupful of corn meal equals six ounces. 

i Teacupful of stemmed raisins or currants equals 6 oz. 

i Teacupful of stale bread equals two ounces. 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKING 

Asparagus, Tomatoes and Peas is to 20 minutes 

Brown bread 3 hours 

Beef Corned and A-la-mode 3 to 5 hours 

Beef, Mutton 2 to 3 hours 

Beans — String and shell 1 to 3 hours 

Coffee 3 to 5 minutes 



Tilings Worth Knowing 2 1 5 

Corn Meal 3 hours 

Clams, Oysters 3 to 5 minutes 

Cabbage and Young Beets 30 to 45 minutes 

Carrots, Onions & Vegetable Oysters. 30 to 60 minutes 

Eggs, soft boiled 1 to 3 minutes 

Eggs, hard boiled 6 to 10 minutes 

Freezing Ice Cream 30 minutes 

Hominy, Fine 1 hour 

Ham 5 hours 

Macaroni, Potatoes and Spinach 20 to 30 minutes 

Oatmeal, coarse, steamed 3 hours 

Oatmeal, rolled 30 minutes 

Potted Pigeons 2 hours 

Parsnips and Turnips 30 to 45 minutes 

Puddings, one quart, steamed 3 hours 

Puddings, Small 1 hour 

Rice, Steamed 45 to 60 minutes 

Rice, Boiled 15 to 20 minutes 

Soup Stock 5 to 8 minutes 

Sweet Corn 5 to 8 minutes 

Sweet Breads 20 to 30 minutes 

Squash, Celery and Cauliflower 20 to 30 minutes 

Tea, Steeped without boiling 5 minutes 

Tongue 3 to 4 hours 

Water, one quart, over gas, covered . . 5 minutes 

Water, one pint, over gas, uncovered. . 4 minutes 

Wheat Granules 20 to 30 minutes 

TIME TABLE FOR BAKING 

Biscuits and Rolls 10 to 20 minutes 

Bread 40 to 60 minutes 

Baked Beef — rare — 6 pounds 70 minutes 

Baked Beef — well done 90 minutes 

Beef, braised 3 to 4 hours 

Cake, sponge 40 to 60 minutes 

Cake, fruit 2 to 4 hours 

Chickens, Tame Ducks i z Ato 2% hours 



216 Just for Two 

Ducks (wild), Grouse 25 to 30 minutes 

Fish, thick 45 to 60 minutes 

Fillet of Beef 20 to 30 minutes 

Gems, Muffins, Thin Cakes 20 to 30 minutes 

Mutton, Lamb iJ4 to 1^ hours 

Puddings, Rice, Indian, Plum 2 to 3 hours 

Puddings, Custard 20 to 45 minutes 

p; es 30 to 40 minutes 

Patties 15 to 25 minutes 

Potatoes 30 to 45 minutes 

Scalloped Dishes 15 to 30 minutes 

Veal, Pork, Turkey 2 to 3 hours 

MEALS AS REMEDIES 

"Every meal would be a remedy if it were rightly 
taken,'' said a physician. "Every article of food has 
some curative property or other, and if we ate correctly 
each mouthful would improve our general health. 
Nervous persons, for instance, should eat lots of cel- 
ery for celery is the best nerve tonic in the world. 
Leeks and garlic are good for the digestion and for 
the circulation, and thus they should be tavored by the 
dyspeptic and the weak-hearted. Asparagus clears the 
blood. For the liver tomatoes are excellent. For 
the kidneys nothing is better than spinach. For the 
anemic rice is superb. Grapes are good for malaria 
and pineapples will heal a sore throat. But onions are 
the most valuable food of all. A raw onion, taken every 
night before turning in, cures the worst cases of in- 
somnia. Onion soup is an excellent remedy for de- 
bility of the digestive organs." 

CHOOSING ORANGES 

The young housekeeper should pay extra attention 
to the choosing of her dozen oranges from the box or 
pile displayed. She should judge by weight and ap- 
pearance. A juicy orange is heavy in proportion to its 



Things Worth Knowing 217 

size, while a "corky one is light in weight." A smooth 
fine grained skin which appears to be tightly stretched 
is a good indication of the contents, while the heavy 
coarse grained, dry skin, signifies a coarse grained fruit 
with little juice. 



DAINTY WAYS OF USING ROSE LEAVES 

With the blooming of roses the woman who keeps 
abreast of the times is on the alert to gather in every 
leaf of the fragrant harvest. From time immemorial 
the Orientals have utilized roses for their choicest 
sweets and flavors. Our great grandmothers were 
adepts in the preparation of rose flavors and pot pourris, 
but the modern woman has been slow in awakening to 
their possibilities. 

The rose pillow is now esteemed the acme of dainti- 
ness for the new baby's carriage or the bride's outfit. 

To collect a sufficient supply, make a systematic tour 
of the garden each morning while the dew is still on, 
provided with basket and shears. Select the roses 
whose petals are ready to fall, shake into the basket, 
snip off the denuded stem and throw it away. Carry 
the fragrant burden to the garret or spare room, where 
papers have been spread upon the floor, and empty the 
petals upon them. Stir and turn every day until per- 
fectly dry, transferring to bags when that is accom- 
plished. 

When a sufficient amount of petals has been collected 
put in pretty cases made of fine hemstitched handker- 
chiefs fagotted together, through which white or rose, 
colored ribbon may be run. These wash beautifully. 
If something more elaborate is desirable, a bolting cloth 
cover, embroidered or hand painted with roses, is dain- 
ty and effective. 

For rose syrup, collect fresh petals each morning and 
spread on a tray to dry. When enough have been col- 



218 Just for Two 

lected for a tumbler of preserves, put in a fresh granite 
or porcelain kettle with just enough water to cover, and 
simmer until tender. Add sugar in the proportion of 
a pound to each pint of the leaves and water and cook to 
a rich syrup. The Turkish women frequently use hon- 
ey in place of sugar, one-half pound of the honey equal- 
ing a pound of sugar. 

This syrup gives a delicious flavor to a pudding sauce 
or mince meat, or it may be utilized as a sweet at a 
Turkish tea. Pour in glasses and seal. 

To secure rose flavoring, fill a wide-mouthed bottle 
with fresh petals, packing them down as tight as pos- 
sible. Then pour over them enough pure alcohol to 
submerge. 

Richer and stronger is rose brandy. Fill a glass jar 
with fragrant petals, and cover with French brandy. 
Next day pour off the brandy, take out the leaves and 
replace with fresh ones. Return the brandy. Do this 
several times, until the brandy is strongly impregnated. 
Then strain and bottle tightly. Keep the can covered 
during the distillation process. 

The petals of the yellow rose infused in boiling water 
furnish a delicate dye, which is attractive with old-fash- 
ioned rose desserts and for home-made candy. 

To make candied rose leaves, gather fresh leaves and 
spread them on an inverted sieve or oiled paper in 
the open air until slightly dry, but not crisp. Make 
a syrup, using a half-pint of water and a half pound of 
granulated sugar, and boil until it spins a thread. Dip 
each rose leaf in thh syrup, using a hat pin or fine wire. 
Then lay back in place. After several hours, melt a 
half cupful of fondant, add two or three drops of es- 
sence of rose, a drop of cochineal to color, and a few 
drops of water to thin. Dip the leaves in this one by one, 
sprinkle with crystalized sugar, and return to the oiled 
paper again to harden. 



Things Worth Knowing 

WEDDING ANNIVERSARIES 

First Year — Cotton 
Second Year — Paper 
Third Year — Leather 
Fifth Year — Wooden 

Seventh Year — Woolen 
Tenth Year— Tin 

Twelfth Year — Silk and Linen 
Fifteenth Year — Crystal 
Twentieth Year — China 

Twenty-Fifth Year — Silver 
Thirtieth Year — Pearl 
Fortieth Year — Ruby 
Fiftieth Year— Golden 
Seventy-Fifth Year — Diamond 

BIRTH MONTH GEMS 



219 



Their Sentiment and Flower 



January Garnet — Constancy 

February Amethyst — Contentment 

March Bloodstone — Courage 

April Diamond — Innocence 

May Emerald — Success in Love 

June Pearl — Purity 

July Ruby — Nobility of Mind 

August Moonstone — Conjugal Felicity 

September Sapphire — Chastity 

October Opal — Hope 

November Topaz — Fidelity 

December Turquoise — Success and Happiness 



Wild Rose 

Pink 

Violet 

Easter Lily 

Lily of the Valley 

Daisy 

Rose 

Pond Lily 

Poppy 

Cosmos 

Chrysanthemum 

Holly 



SUGGESTIVE MENUS 
Simple Breakfasts 

Raspberries. Sugar and Cream. 

Batter Cakes. Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 



A Cereal with Cream and Sugar. 

Veal Steak. German Fried Potatoes. 

Toast. Coffee. 



Cantaloupes. 

Codfish Balls. Baked Potatoes. 

Toast. Coffee. 



Sliced Peaches. Sugar and Cream. 

Little Pigs in Blankets. 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Toast. Coffee. 



Peaches. Sugar and Cream. 

Waffles. Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 



Cantaloupes. 

Lamb Chops. Baked Potatoes. 

Toast. Coffee. 



Suggestive Menus 221 

Strawberries. Sugar and Cream. 

French Toast. Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 



Baked Apples. Sugar and Cream. 

Pork Chops. Creamed Potatoes. 

Toast. Coffee. 



Vitos. Sugar and Cream. 

Liver and Bacon. 

Toast. Coffee. 



Peaches. Sugar and Cream. 

Egg Omelet. 

Muffins. Maple Syrup. 

Coffee. 



Vitos. Sugar and Cream. 

Broiled Bacon. Baked Potatoes. 

Bread and Butter. Coffee. 



Baked Apples. Sugar and Cream. 

Eggs on Toast. 
Coffee. 



Sliced Oranges. 

Creamed Chipped Beef. 

Toast. Coffee. 



222 Just for Two 

Simple Lunches 

Cold Tongue. Tomato Ketchup. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Rye and White Bread. 

Peaches. Sugar and Cream. 

Milk. 



Cold Roast Beef Sandwiches. 

Lettuce Salad. 

Strawberry Shortcake. Cream. 

Coffee. 



Cold Roast Pork. Hot Biscuits. 

Apple Salad. 
Cake. Coffee. 



Cold Sliced Ham. Potato Chips. 

Lettuce. Bread and Butter. 

Cheese. Soda Wafers. 

Coffee. 



Cold Sliced Beef. Horseradish. 

French Fried Potatoes. 

Bread and Butter. 

Strawberry Shortcake. Tea. 



Salmon Salad. Potato Chips. 

Soda Wafers. Bread and Butter. 

Lemon Cake. Coffee. 



Suggestive Menus 223 



Schmier Kase. Rye Bread and Butter. 

Hot Baked Apples. Sugar and Cream. 

Iced Tea. 



Chicken Sandwiches. Lettuce. 

Strawberries and Cream. 

Iced Tea. 



Strawberry Cocktail. 
Creamed Fish in Ramekin Cases. 

Soda Biscuits. 

Fried Chicken. Cream Sauce. 

French Peas. 

Wafers. Cream Cheese. 

Coffee. 



Bouillon in Cups. Croutons. 

Broiled Chicken. Cream Sauce. 

Rolls. Coffee. 

Celery Salad. Wafers. 

Nut Sundae. 



