I 




n>,. 

milr^Iilifl 

THINGS MOTHER 
USED TO MAKE 

LYDIA MARIA GURMEY 



FROM THE LIBRARY OF 

James B. Herndon, Jr. 

PRESENTED BY HIM TOTHE 

School of Hotel 
Administration 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 



Cornell University Library 
TX 715.G98 1922 

Things mother used to malce :a collection 



3 1924 001 758 576 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924001758576 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

KEW VORE ■ BOSTON ' CHICAGO • DALLAS 
ATLANTA ■ SAN FRANCISCO 

MACMILLAN & CO., Limited 

LONDON • BOUBAY • CALCUTTA 
UELBODKNE 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, Lm 

lORONIO 



THINGS MOTHER USED 
TO MAKE 



By 
LYDIA MARIA GURNEY 

A COIiIiECTION or OLD TIME RECIPES, SOME NEABLT ONI 
HUNDRED TEARS OLD AND NEVER PUBLISHED BEFORE 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

1922 

All rights reserved 



COPTBIQHT, 1912, 

Bt the suburban press 



COFYBIdHT, 1913, 

Bt the MACMILLAN COMPANY 
Set up and electrotyped. Published December, 1913. 
Repirinted June, 1914. July, 191B. 



INTRODUCTION 

The Things Mother Used To Make consist of old 
fashioned recipes, which have been for the most part 
handed down by word of mouth from one generation 
to another, extending over a period of nearly one 
hundred years. The author, a New England woman, 
has during her life tested out in her own kitchen the 
greater part of these recipes, which represent the 
best cookery of those times. 

This material was originally published in Suburban 
Life, where it obtained such recognition as seemed to 
warrant its preservation in book form. The original 
material has accordingly been amplified, and it is 
here presented as one of the volumes in the series 
of Countryside Manuals. 

Fkank a, Arnold 

New York 
September 15, 1913 



AUTHOR'S FOREWORD 

Good food depends as largely upon the judgment 
of the cook, as upon the materials used. These 
recipes and Household Hints are written very plaiidy, 
for those who have had no experience, no practice 
and possibly have little judgment. 

They are very simple, not expensive, and if fol- 
lowed closely, will ensure success. It is the hope of 
the writer of this book that the young and inex- 
perienced housekeeper may find it a real help. 

L. M. Gurnet. 



CONTENTS 

Breads paob 

Bannocks 1 

Boston Brown Bread 1 

Brown Bread (Baked) iS 

Coffee Cakes 2 

Corn Meal Gems 2 

Cream of Tartar Biscuits 3 

Crullers 3 

Delicious Dip Toast 3 

Doughnuts 4 

Fried Bread 4 

German Toast 4 

Soft Gingerbread 5 

Huckleberry Cake 5 

Quick Graham Bread 5 

Graham Bread (Raised Over Night) 6 

Graham Muffins 6 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 6 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes 7 

Jenny Lind Tea Cake 7 

Real Johnny Cake 8 

New England Bims 8 

Nut Bread 9 

Oatmeal Bread 9 

Parker House Rolls 10 

Popovers 10 

Rye Muffins 11 

Breakfast Sally Lunn 11 



X CONTENTS 

PAOE 

Sour Milk Biscuits 11 

Spider Calce 12 

Whits Bread 18 

Cakes 

Filled Cookies 13 

Filling for Cookies 13 

Sugar Cookies 13 

Cream Cake 14 

Delicious Cake without Eggs 11 

Feather Cake 14 

Old-Time Gingersnaps 15 

Gold Cake 15 

Hermits 16 

Jumbles 16 

Nut Cake 17 

Oatmeal Cookies 17 

One, Two, Three, Four Cake 18 

Ribbon Cake 18 

Roll Jelly Cake 19 

Silver Cake 19 

Sponge Cake, No. 1 20 

Sponge Cake, No. 2, Grandmother's Rule 20 

Some Old-Fashioned Candies 

Chocolate Taffy 21 

Molasses Candy 21 

Butter Scotch 22 

Pop Com Balls (Very Old Recipe) 22 

Desserts 

Apple Tarts 23 

Baked Apples, No. 1 23 



CONTENTS XI 

FAGB 

Baked Applea, No. 2 23 

Baked Sweet Apples 24 

Baked Apple Dumplings 24 

Fried Apples 24 

Bramberries 25 

Cream Puffs 25 

Floating Island 26 

Huckleberry Dumplings 26 

Coffee Jelly 27 

Lemon Jelly 27 

Strawberry Shortcake, No. 1 28 

Strawberry Shortcake, No. 2 28 

Eggs 

To Boil Eggs 29 

Eggs on Toast 29 

Plain Omelette 29 

Ham Omelette 30 

New England Poached Eggs 30 

Fish 

Clam Fritters 31 

Fish Balls 31 

To Boil a Lobster 31 

To Dress Lobsters Cold 32 

Baked Mackerel 32 

Oysters on Toast 33 

Baked Shad 33 

Meat Dishes 

A La Mode Beef 34 

Beefsteak Pie 34 

Beef Stew with Dumplings 35 



xa CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Dumplings 85 

New England Boiled Dinner 36 

Brunswick Stew 36 

How to Com Beef 37 

Corned Beef Hash 37 

Breaded Pork Chops 38 

Potted Beef 38 

A Fine Way to Cook Veal 38 

Veal Patties 39 

Miscellaneous 

Boston Baked Beans 40 

A Breakfast Dish 40 

Cracker Tea for Invalids 40 

Crust Coffee 41 

Grape Juice 41 

Mince Meat 4i8 

Home-Made Potato Yeast 42 

Pickles 

Pickled Cauliflower 43 

Green Chopped Pickle, No. 1 43 

Green Chopped Pickle, No. 2 44 

Chili Sauce, No. 1 44 

Chili Sauce, No. 2 45 

Chili Sauce, No. 3 45 

Chow Chow, No. 1 46 

Chow Chow, No. 2 46 

Cold Catsup 47 

Com Relish 47 

Home-Made Cucumber Pickles 47 

Quickly Made Cucumber Pickle 48 

Mixed Pickles 48 



CONTENTS xui 

PAGS 

Kccalilli, No. 1 49 

Piccalilli, No. 2 49 

Piccalilli, No. 3 50 

Tomato Catsup, No. 1 50 

Tomato Catsup, No. 2 51 

Pickled Watermelon Rind 51 

Pies 

Rich Pie Crust 52 

Pork Apple Pie 52 

Chocolate Custard Pie 52 

Cocoanut Pie 53 

Cranberry Pie 53 

Cream Pie 54 

Old-Time Custard Pie 54 

Frosted Lemon Pie 54 

Mock Mince Pie 55 

Pumpkin Pie, No. 1 55 

Pumpkin Pie, No. 2 56 

Rhubarb Pie 56 

RoUey Polys 56 

Squash Pie 57 

Cream Washington Pies 57 

Cream for Filling 68 

Preserves 

Crab Apple Jelly 59 

California Jam 59 

Canned Cherries 59 

Cherry Conserve 60 

Preserved Citron 60 

Currant Jelly 61 

Spiced Currants 61 



XIV CONTENTS 

FAex 

Cranbeny Jelly 61 

Grape Conserve 62 

Grape Marmalade 62 

Grape Preserve 62 

Orange Marmalade 63 

Peach Marmalade 63 

To Can Peaches 64 

Pickled Peaches 64 

Ginger Pears 65 

Preserved Pears 65 

Way to Pickle Pears 66 

To Preserve Pineapple 66 

Quince Jelly 66 

Quince Marmalade 67 

Quince Sauce 67 

Raspberry Jam, No. 1 67 

Raspberry Jam, No. 2 68 

To Keep Rhubarb Through the Winter 68 

Rhubarb Marmalade 68 

Rhubarb Jam 69 

Spiced Fruit 69 

Puddings 

Bread Pudding 70 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding 70 

Graham Pudding 71 

Hasty Pudding 71 

Baked Indian Pudding 71 

Orange Pudding 72 

Plum Pudding 72 

Queen's Pudding 73 

Poor Man's Rice Pudding 73 

Suet Pudding 74 

Tapioca Cream 74 



CONTENTS XV 

Sauces page 

Chocolate Sauce 75 

Cold Sauce 75 

Cranberry Sauce 75 

Cream Mustard 75 

Egg Sauce, for Chocolate Pudding 76 

Pudding Sauce 76 

Salad Dressing 76 

Sauce, for Graham Pudding 77 

Soups 

Bean Porridge 78 

Connecticut Clam Chowder 78 

Massachusetts Clam Chowder 79 

New England Pish Chowder 79 

Lamb Broth 80 

A Good Oyster Stew 80 

Potato Soup .- 81 

Vegetables 

Green Corn Fritters 82 

Delicious Stuffed Baked Potatoes 82 

Creamed Potatoes 82 

Scalloped Potatoes 83 

Baked Tomatoes 83 

Fried Tomatoes 83 

Appendix: Household Hints 87 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

BREADS 

Bannocks 

1 Cupful of Thick Sour 2 Cupfuls of Flour 

Milk Yi Cupful of Indian Meal 

y^ Cupful of Sugar 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

1 Egg A pinch of Salt 

Make the mixture stiff enough to drop from a 
spoon. Drop mixture, size of a walnut, into boiling 
fat. Serve warm, with maple syrup. 

Boston Brown Bread 

1 Cupful of Rye Meal 1 Cupful of Sour Milk 

1 Cupful of Graham Meal 1 Cupful of Molasses 

Yi Cupful of Flour yi Teaspoonful of Salt 

1 Cupful of Indian Meal 1 Heaping Teaspoonful 
1 Cupful of Sweet Milk of Soda 

Stir the meals and salt together. Beat the soda 
into the molasses until it foams; add sour milk, mix 
all together and pour into a tin pail which has been 
well greased, ir you have no brown-bread steamer. 

1 



2 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Set the pail into a kettle of boiling water and steam 
three or four hours, keeping it tightly covered. 

Brown Bread (Baked) 

1 Cupful of Indian Meal 1 Cupful of Molasses 

1 Cupful of Rye Meal (scant) 

Vz Cupful of Flour 1 Cupful of Milk or Water 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

Put the meals and flour together. Stir soda into 
molasses until it foams. Add salt and milk or water. 
Mix all together. Bake in a tin pail with cover on for 
two and a half hours. 

Coffee Cakes 

When your dough for yeast bread is risen light and 
fluffy, cut off small pieces and roll as big as your 
finger, four inches long. Fold and twist to two inches 
long and fry in deep fat. Serve hot with coffee. 

Com Meal Gems 

2 Cupfuls of Flour 1 Teaspoonful of Baking 

1 Cupful of Corn Meal Soda 

(bolted is best) 1 Egg 

2 Cupfuls of Milk Y^ Cupful of Sugar 

2 Teaspoonf uls of Cream J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 
of Tartar 

Stir the flour and meal together, adding cream of 
tartar, soda, salt and sugar. Beat the egg, add the 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE S 

milk to it, and stir into the other ingredients. Bake 
in a gem-pan twenty minutes. 

Cream of Tartar Biscuits 

1 Pint of Flour 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

2 Teaspoonf uls of Cream J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 

of Tartar 1 Tablespoonful of Lard 

Stir cream of tartar, soda, salt and lard into the 
flour; mix with milk or water, handling as little as 
possible. Roll and cut into rounds. Baking-powder 
can be used in place of soda and cream of tartar. 

Crullers 

Use the recipe for doughnuts, adding one egg and 
a little more butter. Roll a small piece of the dough 
to the size of your finger, and eight inches long, 
double it, and twist the two roUs together. Fry in 
boiling fat. 

Delicious Dip Toast 

Cut slices of bread, one-half inch thick; toast each 
side to a delicate brown. Dip these into hot, salted 
milk, letting them remain imtil soft. Lay them on a 
platter and spread a little butter over each slice. 
Take one quart of milk more or less according to 
size of family; heat in a double boiler, salt to taste. 
Wet two tablespoonfuls of flour with a little water; 
stir until smooth, and pour into the nulk when boil- 
ing. Make this of the consistency of rich cream; add 



4 TfflNGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and pour over 
the toasted bread. Serve hot. 

Doughnuts 

1 Egg 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

1 Cupful of Milk Piece of Butter the Size 

1 and ^Iz Cupfuls of of a Walnut 

Sugar 1/4 Teaspoonful of Cinna- 

2 Teaspoonf uls of Cream mon or Nutmeg 

of Tartar Salt, and Flour enough 

to roll soft 

Beat the egg and sugar together and add the milk 
and butter. Stir the soda and cream of tartar into 
the flour, dry; mix all together, with the flour and 
salt. Cut into rings and fry in deep fat. Lay them 
on brown paper when you take them from the fat. 

Fried Bread 

After frying pork or bacon, put into the fat slices 
of stale bread. As it fries, pour over each slice a 
little milk or water and salt to taste, turn and fry on 
the opposite side. This is a very appetizing dish. 

German Toast 

1 Cupful of Milk Pinch of Salt 

1 Egg 4 or 5 Slices of Bread 

Beat together one egg, one cupful of milk, and a 
little salt. Dip slices of stale bread into this mixture. 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 5 

and fry on a griddle in butter or pork fat. Serve hot 
with butter and maple synlp. 

\ 

] Soft Gingerbread 

1 Cupful of Molasses 1 Teaspoonful of Ginger 

1 Cupful of Sour Milk 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

J^ Cupful of Butter or J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 
Lard 

Stir the soda into the molasses until it foams, add 
sour milk, ginger, salt and melted butter. Last of 
all, add flour enough for quite a stiff batter, and 
bake. This makes one sheet. 

Huckleberry Cake 

Pick over and wash and flour well one cupful of 
fresh huckleberries. Add these to the batter for 
soft gingerbread. Serve hot, with butter. 

Quick Graham Bread 

1 Pint of Graham Meal 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 
}/2 Cupful of Molasses \^ Teaspoonful of Salt 
1 Cupful of Sour Milk 

Stir soda into the molasses, add sour milk and 
salt; add all to the meal, beating well. Sweet milk 
will do with a little less soda. Bake thirty minutes, 
or according to heat of the oven. A moderate oven 
is best. 



6 TfflNGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Graham Bread (raised over night) 

3 Cupfuls of Flour 1 Tablespoonful of Lard 

3 Cupfuls of Graham J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 

Meal 1 Yeast Cake 

3 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar 

Mix flour and meal together and rub in lard, sugar 
and salt. Add yeast cake which has been dissolved 
in one-half cup of cold water. Mix with warm water 
at night. Set in a warm place to rise. In the morn- 
ing stir and let rise to twice its bulk. Knead and 
put in baking pans. Raise again and bake forty-five 
minutes. 

Graham Mufllns 

1 Pint of Graham Flour 3^ Pint of White Flour 
J^ Cupful of Molasses 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 
J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 

Put the salt into the flour and soda into the 
molasses. Stir all together and mix with milk or 
water. Drop into muffin tins and bake twenty 
minutes. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes 

2 Cupfuls of Sour Milk J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Soda 

Stir the soda aud salt into the milk and add flour 
enough to make thin batter. Fry on a well-greased 



\ THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 7 

\ 

griddle. One spoonful for each cake. Serve hot with 
butter and maple syrup. 

Sweet Milk Griddle Cakes 

1 Egg 1 Level Teaspoonful of 

1 Pint of Sweet Milk Soda 

2 Level Teaspoonfuls of Pinch of Salt 

Cream of Tartar Flour enough for thin bat- 

ter 

Mix soda and cream of tartar with flour. Beat 
the egg, add milk and stir into flour. Fry in small 
cakes on a griddle. 



Jenny Lind Tea Cake 

3 Cupfuls of Flour 1 Tablespoonf ul of Melt- 
J/^ Cupful of Sugar ed Butter 

1 Egg 2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream 
1 Teaspoonful of Soda of Tartar 

Stir salt, soda and cream of tartar into the dry 
flour. Beat the egg, add sugar and butter, stir into 
the flour and mix with enough milk to make batter 
as thick as a cake. Bake in a moderate oven. To be 
eaten hot with butter. 



8 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Real Johnny Cake 

2 Cupfuls of Flour 1 Teaspoonful of Cream 

1 Cupful of Yellow Meal of Tartar 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar J/^ Teaspoonful of Soda 
J^ Teaspoonful of Salt or, 

2 Teaspoonf uls of Baking- 
powder 

Add enough milk or water to make a thin batter, 
and bake. 

New England Buns 

1 Cupful of Milk J^ Teaspoonful of Soda 

1 and ^/a Cupfuls of 3^ Teaspoonful of Salt 

Sugar 1 Yeast Cake 

^Iz Cupful of Butter or Flour enough for Soft 

Lard Dough 

^/2 Cupful of Currants 
1 Teaspoonful of Extract 

of Lemon 

Dissolve the yeast in a half-cupful of cold water. 
Scald the milk and, when nearly cold, add the yeast, 
half the sugar, and flour enough to make a thin 
batter; let it rise to twice its bulk. When hght and 
foamy, add the rest of the ingredients; sprinkle a 
little flour over the currants, stir the soda into the 
flour, using flour enough to make stiff dough. Set 
again, then roll, cut with a cooky-cutter, about an 
inch thick, and let rise again. Bake in a moderate 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 9 

oven twenty-five minutes. Mix in the morning, if 
wanted for the evening meal. When done, brush 
over the top, while warm, with equal parts of milk 
and molasses. 

Nut Bread 

%yi Cupfuls of Flour 1 Egg 

3 Teaspoonfuls of Baking- 1 Cupful of Milk 

powder ^ Cupful of English Wal- 

]4: Teaspoonful of Salt nut Meats, chopped 

J^ Cupful of Sugar fine 

Beat egg and sugar together, then add milk and 
salt. Sift the baking-powder into the dry flour, and 
put all the ingredients together. Add the nuts last, 
covering with a little flour, to prevent falling, and 
bake in a moderate oven one hour. 

Oatmeal Bread 

2 Cupfuls of Rolled Oats }4. Cupful of Molasses 
3j^ Cupfuls of Boiling 1 Yeast Cake 
Water Pinch of Salt 

Let the rolled oats and boiling water stand until 
cool, then add the molasses, salt, and yeast cake 
which has been dissolved in cold.water. Stir in flour 
enough to make a stiff dough. Let it rise over night. 
In the morning, stir it down and let it rise again. 
Mold into loaves and let rise again. 

Bake forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. 

This will make three small loaves. 



10 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 



Parker House Rolls 

1 Quart of Flour Y2 Teaspoonful of Salt 

1 Tablespoonful of Lard K Pint of Milk 

3 Tablespoonfuls of 1 Yeast Cake 
Sugar 

Scald the milk. When nearly cold add the yeast 
cake which has been dissolved in one-half cup of 
cold water. Rub into the flour, the lard, sugar and 
salt. Stir all together with a knife and knead. Let 
rise to twice its bulk and knead. Let rise again and 
knead. Roll half an inch thick, cut into rounds, 
spread with butter and double over. Rise again, 
bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Mix at ten 
o'clock in the morning if wanted for supper, a little 
earlier in cold weather. 



Popovers 

1 Egg 1 Cupful of Flour 

1 Cupful of Milk 

Beat the egg, and stir flour and milk in slowly, 
a little flour, then a little milk. Salt a little. This 
will make a very thin batter. Drop into well- 
buttered muffin pan, bake in a very hot oven and 
serve with hot sauce for a pudding, or eat with 
butter. 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 11 

Rye Mu£5n8 

2 Cupfuls of Flour J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 

1 Cupful of Rye Meal Va Cupful of Yeast or 

3 Tablespoonfuls of 1 Yeast Cake dissolved 

Sugar in Water 

Mix with warm water at night. In the morning 
add one-quarter teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in 
two tablespoonfuls of boiling water; stir well. Bake 
in a gem-pan for twenty or thirty minutes. 

Breakfast Sally Lunn 

1 Egg 2 Teacupfuls of Milk 

1 Quart of Flour 2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream 

Piece of Butter the size of Tartar 

of an Egg 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar A little Salt 

Mix salt, sugar, cream of tartar and soda, with the 
flour. Beat the egg, stir into it the melted butter and 
milk. Stir all together and bake in a muffin pan, 
fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Sour Milk Biscuits 

1 Pint of Flour K Teaspoonful of Salt 

1 Teaspoonful of Lard 1 Cupful of Sour Milk 
1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

Put lard and salt into the flour and soda with the 



12 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

•our milk. Mix together, roll thin and cut into 
rounds. Bake twenty minutes. 

Spider Cake 

2 Cupfuls of Bread Flour 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 
^/s Cupful of Lard ^ Teaspoonful of Salt 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream 

of Tartar 

Put the soda, salt and cream of tartar into the 
dry flour. Rub in the lard and mix with water into a 
soft dough. Roll to the size of the spider or griddle. 
When the spider is hot and well greased with lard, 
lay oh the cake and cover. Bake ten minutes on 
one side, then ten on the other. This can be made 
quickly without waiting for the oven to heat. Serve 
hot with butter. 

White Bread 

S Cupfuls of Flour 1 Pinch of Salt 

3 Teaspoonfuls of Sugar J^ Yeast Cake 
1 Teaspoonful of Lard 

Rub sugar, salt and lard into the flour. Dis- 
solve the yeast in half a cupful of cold water. Put 
all together and mix to a stiff dough with milk or 
water, at night. In the morning, push it down and 
let rise again. Then knead and place in a pan. 
Let it rise to twice its bulk and bake thirty minutes. 



CAKES 

Filled Cookies 

1 Cupful of Sugar 2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream 

J^ Cupful of Butter or of Tartar 

Lard 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

1 Cupful of Milk ITablespoonful of Vanilla 
3}4 Cupfuls of Flour 

Roll thin and cut with a cooky-cutter. 

Filling for Cookies 

1 Cupful of Chopped J^ Cupful of Water 

Raisins 1 Teaspoonful of Flour 

J^ Cupful of Sugar 

Cook this until thick, being careful not to bum it. 
Place cookies in a well-buttered pan, spread on a 
teaspoonful of the filling and cover with another 
cooky. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Sugar Cookies 

1 Cupful of Sugar 2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream 
}/2 Cupful of Butter of Tartar 

2 Tablespoonfuls of 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

Milk 1 Teaspoonful of Lemon 

1 Egg Extract 

Flour enough to roll 

Beat the butter, sugar and egg together, add the 
IS 



14 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

milk, stir the cream of tartar and soda into the flour 
dry. Stir all together and roll. 

Cream Cake 
2 Eggs 2 Cupfuls of Flour 

1 Cupful of Cream 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

(sour preferred) J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 

1 Cupful of Sugar Flavor with Lemon 

Stir the soda into the cream; beat the eggs; add 
sugar, salt, flour and cream; last of all, the flavoring. 

Delicious Cake without Eggs 
1 Cupful of Thick, Sour Pinch of Salt 

Milk 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

1 Cupful of Sugar 1 Teaspoonful of Cinna- 
J^ Cupful of Butter mon 

2 Cupfuls of Flour 3^ Teaspoonful each of 

1 Cupful of Chopped Cloves and Nutmeg 

Raisins 

Stir the soda into the sour milk, add melted 
butter and sugar, salt and spices. Put the flour 
over the raisins and stir all together. This will make 
one loaf or twelve little cakes in gem-pans. 

Feather Cake 

2 Cupfuls of Sugar y^ Teaspoonful of Soda 

3 Eggs 3 Cupfuls of Flour 
Butter the size of an Egg 1 Cupful of Milk 

1 Teaspoonful of Cream Flavor with Almond 
of Tartar Beat fifteen minutes 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 15 

Cream together the butter and sugar. Add the 
well-beaten eggs, then the milk. Beat together. 
Put soda and cream of tartar into the flour, dry. 
Stir all together with the flavoring. This will make 
two small loaves. 

Old-time Gingersnaps 

1 Cupful of Molasses 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

3^ Cupful of Butter or 1 Teaspoonful of Ginger 
Lard 

Boil the molasses five minutes. Eemove from the 
fire, and add soda, butter and ginger. When cooled 
a little, stir in the flour until thick enough to roll, 
then roll thia as a postage-stamp. Cut with a 
cooky-cutter, and bake in a hot oven, being careful 
not to burn. Shut in a tin pail. These will keep for 
a long time. 

Gold Cake 

1 Cupful of Sugar J^ Teaspoonful of Cream 
y^ Cupful of Butter of Tartar 

Yolks of 4 Eggs 14= Teaspoonful of Soda 

Whites of 1 Egg 1% Cupfuls of Flour 

y2 Cupful of Milk Flavoring 

Cream butter and sugar together. Add the well- 
beaten eggs, milk, flavoring and flour into which the 
cream of tartar and soda have been stirred. Bake 
thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 



16 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 



Hermits 



1 Teaspoonful of Soda 
1 Teaspoonful of Cinna- 
mon 
1 Teaspoonful of Nutmeg 
y^ Teaspoonful of Cloves 
Flour enough to roll 



1 Cupful of Sugar 
J^ Cupful of Molasses 
2/3 Cupful of Butter 

2 Eggs 

1 Cupful of Raisins, 

Chopped Fine 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Milk 

Cream the butter and sugar together, beat the 
eggs, add to the butter and sugar, then stir in the 
molasses, milk and spices. Add the raisins which 
have been covered with flour, and, last of all, the 
flour into which the dry soda has been sifted. Roll 
thin and cut with cooky-cutter. 



Jumbles 



2 Cupfuls of Sugar 

1 Cupful of Butter 
Yi Cupful of Milk 

2 Eggs 

1 Teaspoonful of Soda 



2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream 

of Tartar 
1 Teaspoonful of Lemon 
Flour enough to roll 



Cream together the butter and sugar. Stir into 
the well-beaten egg. Add milk. Stir cream of 
tartar and soda into the flour, dry. Beat all together 
and flavor. Cut into rings and bake in a weU- 
greased pan. 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 1? 

Nut Cake 

1 Cupful of Sugar 1 Teaspoonful of Cream 
Yl Cupful of Butter of Tartar 

Yi Cupful of Milk Yi Teaspoonful of Soda 

2 Eggs 1 Cupful of Hickory Nut 
2 Cupfuls of Flour Meats, or English 

Walnuts 

Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the 
well-beaten eggs and milk and put the soda and 
cream of tartar into the flour. Stir all together, 
adding nut meats, covered with flour, last. 



Oatmeal Cookies 

2 Eggs "^l^ Cupful of Cocoanut 

1 Cupful of Sugar Y. Teaspoonful of Salt 

\Y, Cupfuls of Oatmeal Y. Teaspoonful of Vanilla 
or Rolled Oats 2 Tablespoonfuls of But- 

ter 

Cream the butter and sugar together and add the 
well-beaten eggs. Add the remainder of the in- 
gredients and drop on a well-greased baking-pan. 
Bake in a moderate oven, from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. 



18 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

One, Two, Three, Four Cake 

1 Cupful of Butter 2/3 Cupful of Milk 

2 Cupfuls of Sugar 2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream 

3 Cupfuls of Flour of Tartar 

4 Eggs 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

Cream the butter and sugar together and add the 
well-beaten eggs; beat all and add milk; beat again. 
Sift the cream of tartar and the soda into the flour; 
stir all together. Bake in a slow oven. This will 
make two loaves. 

Ribbon Cake 

3 Eggs A little Salt and flavor, 

2 Cupfuls of Sugar - Lemon or Almond 
2/3 Cupful of Butter 1 Large Cupful of Raisins 
1 Cupful of Milk M Pound of Citron 

3 Cupfuls of Flour 1 Teaspoonful of Cinna- 
1 Teaspoonful of Cream mon and Cloves 

of Tartar A little Nutmeg 

1 Tablespoonful of Molas- 3^ Teaspoonful of Soda 
ses 

Cream the butter and sugar together, and add the 
well-beaten eggs and the milk. Mix the salt, soda 
and cream of tartar, with the flour. Stir all together. 
Put half of this mixture into two oblong pans. To 
the remainder add one tablespoonful of molasses, 
one large cupful of raisins, stoned and chopped, a 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 19 

quarter of a pound of citron sliced thin, one teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon and cloves, a little nutmeg, and one 
tablespoonful of flour. Bake in two pans of the 
same size as used for the first half. Put the sheets 
together while warm, alternately, with jelly between. 

Roll JeUy Cake 

4 Eggs J^ Teaspoonful of Soda 

1 Cupful of Sugar Pinch of Salt ' 

1 Cupful of Flour 1 Teaspoonful of Extract' 

1 Teaspoonful of Cream of Lemon 
of Tartar 

Beat together eggs and sugar, add salt and extract. 
Stir into the dry flour the soda and cream of tartar. 
Mix all together. Bake in a moderate oven, in a 
large pan, and turn out, when done, on a clean 
towel, which has been sprinkled with powdered 
sugar. Spread with jelly and roll while warm. 

Silver Cake 

1 Cupful of Sugar 3^ Cupful of Milk 

^/s Cupful of Butter 1 Scant Teaspoonful of 

2 Cupfuls of Flour Cream of Tartar 
Whites of 3 Eggs 3^ Teaspoonful of Soda 

Almond Flavoring 

Cream together the butter and sugar, add milk and 
flavoring. Stir cream of tartar and soda into dry 
flour. Last of all add whites of eggs, beaten to a 



^"^ 



20 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

stiff froth. To make a very good cake, the butter 
and sugar should be creamed with the hand. Citron 
also makes it very nice. 

Sponge Cake, No. i 

3 Eggs IJ^ Cupfuls of Flour 
13^ Cupfuls of Sugar 1 Teaspoonful of Cream 
ii Cupful of Water of Tartar 

Pinch of Salt J^ Teaspoonfid of Soda 

Beat eggs and sugar together, add water and 
salt, then put soda and cream of tartar into the 
dry flour. Beat all together. Bake slowly. 

Sponge Cake, No. 2, Grandmother's Rule 

4 Eggs 1 Cupful of Flour 
Pinch of Salt 1 Teaspoonful of Baking- 
1 Cupful of Sugar powder 

Beat the eggs ten minutes, add sugar, and beat 
again. Then add the flour, into which has been 
stirred the baking-powder. Stir all together and 
fiavor. Bake in a moderate oven. 



SOME OLD-FASHIONED CANDIES 

Chocolate Taffy 

Ij^ Cupfuls of Molasses 1 Small Teaspoonful of 
13^ Cupfuls of Sugar Flour 

H Cupful of Milk Butter the size of a Wal- 
2 Squares of Chocolate nut 

Stir the sugar, flour and grated chocolate into the 
molasses and milk. When hot add the butter. Boil 
until it strings. Pour into buttered tin. When 
nearly cold mark into squares. 

Molasses Candy 

2 Cupfuls of Molasses Butter the size of a Wal- 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Vinegar nut 

J^ Teaspoonful of Soda 

Put the molasses, vinegar and butter into a sauce- 
pan. Boil until it strings when dropped from a 
spoon, or until it is brittle when dropped into cold 
water. Stir the soda in briskly and'' pour into a 
buttered tin. When nearly cold, pull until nearly 
white. Cut into small pieces or sticks and lay on 
buttered platter. 

21 



22 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Butter Scotch 

}/2, Cupful of Molasses J^ Cupful of Butter 
Y2 Cupful of Sugar 

Boil until it strings. Pour into buttered tin and 
when cold break into pieces. This is very nice when 
cooled on snow. 

Pop Corn Balls (very old recipe) 

1 Cupful of Molasses Piece of Butter, half the 

size of an Egg 

Boil together until it strings and then stir in a 
pinch of soda. Put this over a quart dish full of 
popped corn. When cool enough to handle squeeze 
into balls the size of an orange. 



DESSERTS 

Apple Tarts 

Roll rich pie crust thin as for pies. Cut into 
rounds, pinch up the edge half an inch high and 
place in muffin rings. Put into each one a table- 
spoonful of apple sauce and bake in a hot oven for 
twenty minutes. Beat the white of an egg to a stiff 
froth and add two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Drop a 
spoonful on the top of each and brown quickly in a 
hot oven. 

Baked Apples, No. i 

Take good, sour apples; greenings are best. 
Scoop out the cores, wash and place in a baking- 
pan. FiU the hole with sugar, and a tablespoonf ul 
for each apple besides. Pour over these a generous 
supply of cold water. Bake in a hot oven, until 
light and fluffy. These make a delicious dessert, if 
served with cream. 

Baked Apples, No. 2 

Wash, core and quarter sour apples. Put them 
into an earthen crock. Cover with cold water, 

23 



24 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

adding a cup and a half of sugar to six apples, or 
sweeten to taste. Bake three or four hours, until 
they are a dark amber color. 



Baked Sweet Apples 

Wash clean, fair, sweet apples. Put these into a 
baking-pan, with a little cold water and a half-cup of 
molasses, if four to six apples are used. Bake 
slowly until you can stick a fork through them. 
Years ago, people ate these, with crackers and milk. 
Baked apples and milk was a favorite dish. 



Baked Apple Dumplings 

Take rich pie crust, roll thin as for pie and cut 
into rounds as large as a tea plate. Pare and slice 
fine, one small apple for each dumpling. Lay the 
apple on the crust, sprinkle on a tiny bit of sugar and 
nutmeg, turn edges of crust over the apple and press 
together. Bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 
Serve hot with cold sauce. 



Fried Apples 

Pare and slice apples and fry in hot fat. When 
removed from the fire, sprinkle over them a little 
sugar. Bananas are nice cooked in tlie same way. 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 25 

Bramberries 

Crust Filling 

Ij^ Cupfuls of Flour 1 CupfiJ of Raisins 

14, Cupful of Lard (scant) 1 Cracker 
J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 1 Lemon 
Just enough Water to ^/s Cupful of Sugar 
wet smooth 1 Egg 

A Little Salt 

Beat the egg, add sugar, salt, lemon juice and 
grated rind. Roll cracker fine, chop raisins and mix 
all together. Roll the crust thin, cut into rounds. 
Put a spoonful of filling between two rounds and 
pinch the edges together. Prick top crust with fork. 
Bake in iron pan for twenty minutes. 

Cream Puffs 

1 Cupful of Hot Water 1 Pinch of Salt and Bak- 
3^ Cupful of Butter ing Soda 

1 Cupful of Flour 3 Eggs 

Put the water and butter, into a dish on the stove. 
When boiling, stir in the dry flom*, into which you 
have put the salt and soda. Stir until smooth and 
thick. When nearly cool, add three eggs, one at a 
time. Drop on a buttered pan and bake twenty 
minutes in a hot oven. This will make twelve cakes. 
When they are cold, make a slit in the side with a 



26 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

sharp knife, and fill with whipped cream or the 
following mixture: 

One pint of milk, one egg, two-thirds of a cupful of 
sugar, one large spoonful of flour. Beat the egg, 
sugar, flour, and a little salt together till smooth and 
stir into the boiling milk. Flavor with lemon. 

Floating Island 

1 Quart of Milk 1 Teaspoonful of Com- 

4 Eggs starch 

1 Cupful of Sugar 1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla 

Pinch of Salt 

Put the milk on the stove and heat to nearly the 
boiling point. Whip whites of the eggs to a stiflE 
froth and drop them by spoonfuls into the hot milk 
for a few minutes to cook. With a skimmer remove 
these islands to a plate. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
with sugar, salt and cornstarch. Stir into the milk 
until it boils. Flavor and cool. Turn into a glass 
dish and lay the "islands" on top of the custard. 
Serve cold. 

Huckleberry Dumplings 

2 Cupfuls of Flour J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 
2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream 1 Teaspoonful of Lard 

of Tartar 
\ Teaspoonful of Soda 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 27 

Mix ingredients together with water until thick 
enough to roll. Cut into rounds an inch thick as for 
biscuits. Boil one quart of huckleberries in one-half 
pint of water and one-half cupful of sugar. Drop in 
the dumplings. Boil for twenty minutes. Serve 
with cold sauce or cream and sugar. 



Coffee Jelly 

1 Small Box of Gelatine 1 Scant Quart of Boiling 

1 Pint of Strong Coffee Water 

1 Cupful of Sugar Flavor with Vanilla 

Soak the gelatine in cold water for fifteen minutes. 
Stir into the coffee and add sugar, salt and water, 
then vanilla. Pour into a mould and set away to 
cool. Serve with sweetened whipped cream. 



Lemon Jelly 

J^ Box of Gelatine 1 Cupful of Sugar 

J^ Cupful of Cold Water 3 Lemons 
13^ Cupfuls of Boiling 
Water 

Soak gelatine in the cold water for half an hour. 
Add boiling water, sugar and juice of lemons. Stir 
well and strain into mould or small cups. 



28 TmNGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Strawberry Shortcake, No. i 

1 Pint of Flour 1 Box of Strawberries 

^/a Cupful of Lard 2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream 
A little Salt of Tartar 

Milk enough to make a 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 
stiff dough 

Put the salt, soda, lard and cream of tartar, 
into the dry flour, mix with milk (water will do), 
divide into halves and roll large enough for a Wash- 
ington pie tin. Spread butter over one, lay the other 
on top, bake twenty minutes. Hull and wash and 
mash the berries and sweeten %o taste. Separate 
the two cakes, butter, and place the berries between. 
Serve hot. 

Strawberry Shortcake, No. 2 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter 1 Teaspoonful of Cream 
2/3 Cupful of Sugar of Tartar 

1 Egg }4 Teaspoonful of Soda 

J^ Cupful of Milk 1 Box of Strawberries 

1 Cupful of Cream 

Cream together the butter and sugar and add 
the well-beaten egg and milk. Stir the cream of 
tartar and soda into the dry flour and beat all to- 
gether. Bake in two Washington pie tins. Hull, 
wash, mash and sweeten to taste, the berries. Put 
half of these between the two loaves, the other half 
on top, with whipped cream on top of all. 



EGGS 

To Boil Eggs 

Put your eggs into a bowl which can be sent 
to the table. Pour boiling water over them and let 
stand eight or ten minutes. It is essential that the 
water be boiling. This way of boiling eggs, though 
so simple, is going out of fashion, unfortunately, as it 
makes a wonderful difference in the appearance of 
the egg when broken open, and above all, in its 
digestibility. Eggs should never be boiled in any 
other way for invalids. 

Eggs on Toast 

Toast as many slices of bread as desired. Butter 
well and pour over these just enough salted water to 
soften. Have ready a dish of boiling water. Stir 
it round and round with a spoon or fork, break the 
egg and drop into this swirling water. Remove from 
the water in from four to six minutes, as preferred, 
and place one on each slice of bread. Serve hot, with 
a dash of pepper, if Uked. 

29 



30 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Plain Omelette 

2 Eggs Pinch of Salt 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Water 

Beat whites and yolks separately. Put together, 
salt, and add water. Pour onto a hot buttered fry- 
ing pan and fry one side until it is puffed up, then 
turn half over and serve at once. 

Ham Omelette 

Make a plain omelette and add two-thirds of a 
cupful of chopped boiled ham. Pour into the hot 
frying pan and cook both sides. 

New England Poached Eggs 

4 Eggs Butter the size of a Wal- 

8 Tablespoouf uls of Milk nut 

Y2 Teaspoonful of Salt 

Break the eggs into a sauce pan with milk, salt and 
butter. Cook until they thicken, stirring constantly. 
Remove from fire before it wheys. Serve hot with a 
dash of pepper. 



FISH 

Clam Fritters 

1 Egg 1 Cupful of Milk 

1 Cupful of Bread-flour and a Little Salt 

Beat the egg and half the nailk, adding the flour 
gradually, to make the batter smooth. Salt, and 
add the last haU-cupful of milk. Put one clam into 
one teaspoonful of batter and drop into boiling lard. 
Serve hot. 

Fish BaUs 

1 Cupful of Hot Mashed 2 Teaspoonf uls of Melted 

Potatoes Butter 

Yi Cupful of Shredded 2 Tablespoonfuls of Milk 

Cod-fish 

Put the fish into a piece of cheese-cloth, let cold 
water run over it, and squeeze dry. Mix ingredients 
all together. Take a little flour in the hand and 
roll half a tablespoonful of the mixture between 
the palms, to the size of a small peach. Fiy in deep 
fat. 

To Boil a Lobster 

Have a large kettle on the fire with plenty of 
boiling water, deep enough to cover the lobster 

31 



32 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

well. Put into this one cupful of salt, if you can- 
not get the sea-water. When the water is galloping, 
put in the lobster, head foremost, and keep it under 
water. Boil from twenty to thirty-five minutes ac- 
cording to size. 

To Dress Lobsters Cold 

Crack the shell of the claws carefully, remove 
the meat and place on a platter. Turn the lobster 
on its back, lay a heavy knife on the middle of the 
tail, all the way up to the body. Give it a gentle 
blow with a hammer, then with both hands turn 
back the shell and draw out the tail intact. Twist 
off the claws from the under side of the body and 
remove the body from the shell. Open and remove 
the stomach and sandbags. Open the tail in length, 
halfway through, on the under side, remove the 
black vein from the body to the end. Dress with 
parsley and serve. 

Baked Mackerel 

1 Mackerel 3 Small Slices of Salt Pork 

Salt to Taste 

Split open the mackerel, remove head and in- 
sides, wash clean, and lay in a baking-pan on a well- 
buttered paper or cheese-cloth, the skin side down. 
Spread over this slices of salt pork and a little salt. 



TfflNGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 33 

Bake in moderate oven for twenty minutes, or half an 
hour. This is much nicer than fried macker«l. 

Osrsters on Toast 

Toast as many slices of bread as you require. 
Wipe enough oysters to cover them and season with 
pepper and salt. Put a little hot water over the 
bread and place in a very hot oven, until the edges of 
the oysters curl. Serve hot, with a white sauce. 

Baked Shad 

Make a nice dressing of five or six crackers, 
according to size of family (bread crumbs will do). 
Roll fine, or soak until soft in milk (water will do). 
Season to taste with poultry dressing, salt and add a 
small piece of butter. Wash the shad and stuff. 
Have a large sheet of white paper, well buttered, or a 
piece of cheese-cloth. Put into a baking-pan and set 
in the oven. Bake one hour. Spanish mackerel is 
fine baked in the same way. 



MEAT DISHES 

A La Mode Beef 

3 Pounds of Beef Potatoes 
6 Onions Salt 

4 or 5 White Turnips 

Take three pounds of a cheap cut of beef. Wash, 
put into an iron pan, sprinkle over it salt to taste. 
Pare six onions, more or less, according to size of 
family, and prepare four or five small white turnips 
sliced thin. Lay these around the meat, and pour 
over all a quart of cold water. Put into the oven and 
bake three hours. Pare potatoes enough for the 
family, putting them in an hour and a half before 
serving. This is a most delicious way to cook beef. 
As the water cooks away, add more. Thicken the 
gravy, with flour wet with water, as you would with 
any roast meat. 

Beefsteak Pie 

2 Pounds of Beef (any 1 Onion 

cheap cut will do) 1 Tablespoonful of Salt 

Cut the meat into small pieces; cover with cold 
water, salt and put into the oven; cut the onion into 

91 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 35 

small pieces and add. Bake three hours in an 
earthen dish. Half an hour before serving, put over 
the top a crust, made of two cupfuls of flour, two 
heaping teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, and one tablespoonful of lard. 
Wet with water or milk, as for biscuits. 

Beef Stew with Dtunplings 

3 Pounds of Shin-bone 2 Large Onions 

with Meat 1 Tablespoonful of Salt 

6 Potatoes 

Wash the meat, put into a kettle, cover with cold 
water and boil four hours. Add the salt, and more 
water, as it boils away. Pare the onions, wash and 
slice thin; put them in with the boiling meat, allow- 
ing two hours for cooking. Pare potatoes, wash, 
slice thin; put them in with the meat and onions, 
allowing three-quarters of an hour for cooking. 

Dumplings 

2 Heaping Cupfuls of 1 Teaspoonful of Baking 

Flour Soda 

2 Teaspoonfuls of Cream 1 Teaspoonful of Lard 

of Tartar J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 

1 Glass of Water 

Roll out an inch thick and cut into round pieces. 
Put these on a wire plate, on top of the meat; cover 
and let boil twenty minutes. Lift them out, and 



36 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

thicken the stew with three dessertspoonfuls of 
flour, wet with a scant cup of water. 

New England Boiled Dinner 

This consists of corned beef, white and sweet 
potatoes, cabbage, beets, turnips, squash, parsnips 
and carrots. The quantity depends upon the size of 
the family. Eight pounds of meat is suflScient for a 
family of eight. Boil the meat four hours, the beets 
three hoiurs, the cabbage one and a half hours, 
squash and turnips three-quarters of an hour. Boil 
these in one kettle, aU together. Beets, carrots and 
parsnips should be boiled with the skin on. Pare 
the potatoes, pare and slice the squash and turnip. 
Pick the outer leaves from cabbage and cut in quar- 
ters. When done, pare parsnips and carrots. Drop 
the beets into cold water and slip the skin oflf with the 
hand. 

Brunswick Stew 

1 Chicken or 3 Pounds of 1 Onion 

Lamb 4 Potatoes 

4 Ears of Corn Salt and Pepper 
6 Tomatoes 

Cook the chicken or lamb until tender in two 
quarts of water. Take from the water and chop 
fine. Put back in the liquor, add the corn, cut from 
the cob, tomatoes, onion, and potatoes all chopped. 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE S7 

salt and pepper to taste. Cook two hours. In winter 
this can be made by using canned corn and tomatoes. 

How to Com Beef 

A piece of fresh beef weighing seven or eight 
pounds is sufficient for a family of eight. Wash, 
clean and put it in an earthen dish, twenty-four hours 
before cooking. Cover with cold water, and add a 
cup and a half of ice-cream salt. When ready to 
cook it, remove from the brine and wash, placing it 
in cold water. Cook four hours. 

Com Beef Hash 

Corned Beef Milk 

Potatoes Salt and Pepper 

Lump of Butter 

Chop the meat fine, add the same bulk of potatoes 
or a little more. Put into a saucepan or spider a 
lump of butter the size of an egg, and a few spoon- 
fuls of milk or water. When bubbling, put in the 
meat and potatoes, and a little salt and pepper, if 
you like. Stir for a while, then let it stand ten or 
fifteen minutes, until a crust is formed at the bottom. 
Loosen from the pan with a cake-turner. Turn a 
warm platter over it. Turn pah and hash together 
quickly and serve. If you have a scant quantity, 
place it on slices of toasted bread, which have been 
buttered and wet with hot water. 



38 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Breaded Pork Chops 

6 Chops 1 Cupful of Bread Crumbs 

1 Egg Pinch of Salt 
Vi Cupful of Milk 

Beat the egg and milk together, adding the salt. 
Dip the chops into this mixture, then into the 
crumbs. Fry in hot fat. Veal cutlets can be served 
in the same way. 

Potted Beef 

3 Pounds of a Cheap Cut }/% Can of Tomatoes 

of Beef Salt to taste 

3 Onions 

Put the meat into a kettle, cover with cold water 
and boil slowly for three or four hours. Add salt 
and onions, cut fine. Put the tomato through a 
colander. Boil all together, and, as the water boils 
away, add more. Serve the meat hot. The liquor 
makes a delicious soup, thickened with two table- 
spoonfuls of flour. 

A Fine Way to Cook Veal 

2 Pounds of Veal, or ac- 1 Egg 

cording to size of Bread Crumbs 
family Milk, Salt and Pepper 

Cut the veal into small pieces, a good size for 
serving, and season with salt and pepper. Dip into 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 89 

the egg. Which has been beaten light, then into the 
bread crun^bs. Have a little pork fat (lard will do) 
in a frying-pan, and cook until brown. Set on the 
back of the stove and cook slowly for ten minutes. 
Cover with milk, and bake in the oven very slowly 
for one hour in a covered pan. The toughest veal, 
cooked in this way, will be as tender as chicken. 

Veal Patties 

Ij^ Cupfuls of Boiled J^ Teaspoonfid of Poul- 

Rice try Dressing 

1 Cupful of Veal 1 Egg 

J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 1 Tablespoonful of Milk 

Grind or chop the veal, salt and stir into the rice 
with the dressing; beat the eggs, add milk, and stir 
all together. Drop a tablespoonful spread out thin 
on the griddle, and fry as you would griddle-cakes. 
Chicken, pork, or lamb may be used instead of veal. 



MISCELLANEOUS 

Boston Baked Beans 

Pick over and wash three cupfuls of small white 
beans; cover with cold water and soak over night. 
In the morning, put them on the stove, just to scald, 
not boil, ia the same water. Pour off the water and 
put into an earthen bean-pot. Add seven teaspoon- 
f uls of sugar, one teaspoonf ul of salt, one half-pound 
of saltjpork, fat and lean mixed. Cover with water, 
and bake from eight a. m. until six p. M. As the 
water boils away add more. 

A Breakfast Dish 

Take stale brown bread, no matter how dry, and 
boil until it is soft like pudding. Serve hot, with 
cream. 

Cracker Tea for Invalids 

Take four Boston crackers, split open, toast to a 
delicate brown on each side. Put these into a bowl, 
or earthen dish of some kind, pour over them a 

40 



TfflNGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 41 

quart of boiling water. Let it stand on the back 
of the stove half an hour. When cold, give two or 
three teaspoonfuls to the patient. It is nourishing, 
and the stomach will retain it when absolutely noth- 
ing else can be taken. 



Crust Coffee 

Take the crusts, or any pieces of stale brown bread, 
and bake in the oven until hard and brown. Put 
them into an agate or earthen tea-pot, pour over 
them boiling water and boil ten or fifteen minutes. 
Strain and serve hot like any coffee, with cream and 
sugar. 

Grape Juice 

10 Pounds of Grapes 1 Cupful of Water 

3 Pounds of Sugar 

Pick from the stems, and wash clean, ten pounds 
of grapes. Put them on the stove in a kettle, with a 
little water, and cook until tender. Strain through a 
flannel bag. Do not squeeze it. Return juice to the 
kettle, add sugar, and boil for five minutes. Seal in 
glass jars when boiling hot. Slant the jars, when 
filling, to prevent cracking. When serving, add 
nearly the same amount of water. 



42 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 



Mince Meet 

4 Cupfuls of Chopped Ij^ Cupfuls of Molasses 

Meat 6 Teaspoonfuls of Cinna- 
12 Cupfuls of Chopped mon 

Apples 3 Teaspoonfuls of Cloves 

2 Cupfuls of Chopped 1 Teaspoonf ul of Nutmeg 

Suet J^ Pound of Citron 

1 Cupful of Vinegar I^ind and Juice of One 

3 Cupfuls Seeded Raisins Lemon 

1 Cupful of Currants Butter the size of an Egg 

5 Cupfuls of Brown Sugar and Salt 

Moisten with cold coffee or strong tea. Cook 
slowly two hours. 



Home-made Potato Yeast 

4 Good-Sized Potatoes ^/g Cupful of Salt 

1 Quart of Boiling Water Ij^ Cupfuls of Old 
2/3 Cupful of Sugar Yeast 

Boil, peel and mash the potatoes; add the boiling 
water, sugar and salt. If old yeast cannot be ob- 
tained, use one and one-half cakes of compressed 
yeast. Put this into a pitcher or dish which will 
hold three pints; place in a warm spot to rise; keep 
covered. Use two-thirds of a cupful to one quart of 
flour. This recipe has been in use over fifty years. 



42 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 



Mince Meat 

4 Cupfuls of Chopped 1^ Cupfuls of Molasses 

Meat 6 Teaspoonfuls of Cinna- 
12 Cupfuls of Chopped mon 

Apples 3 Teaspoonfuls of Cloves 

2 Cupfuls of Chopped 1 Teaspoonful of Nutmeg 

Suet ^ Pound of Citron 

1 Cupful of Vinegar I^ind and Juice of One 

3 Cupfuls Seeded Raisins Lemon 

1 Cupful of Currants Butter the size of an Egg 

5 Cupfuls of Brown Sugar and Salt 

Moisten with cold coffee or strong tea. Cook 
slowly two hours. 



Home-made Potato Yeast 

4 Good-Sized Potatoes ^/g Cupful of Salt 

1 Quart of Boiling Water IJ^ Cupfuls of Old 
2/3 Cupful of Sugar Yeast 

Boil, peel and mash the potatoes; add the boiling 
water, sugar and salt. If old yeast cannot be ob- 
tained, use one and one-half cakes of compressed 
yeast. Put this into a pitcher or dish which will 
hold three pints; place in a warm spot to rise; keep 
covered. Use two-thirds of a cupful to one quart of 
floui. This recipe has been in use over fifty years. 



PICEXES 

Pickled Cauliflower 

1 Cauliflower 1 Teaspoonful of Whole 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Salt Cloves 

1 Quart of Vinegar 1 Teaspoonful of White 

Mustard Seed 

Pull the cauliflower into pieces, put into cold 
water with the salt, heat gradually and boil five 
minutes, then drain until dry. Put this into a 
glass jar. Boil the clove and mustard seed in the 
vinegar, and pour over the cauliflower, hot. Have it 
covered with vinegar. Seal while hot. 

Green Chopped Pickle, No. i 

1 Peck of Green Toma- 3 Pints of Vinegar 

toes 2 Tablespoonfuls of All- 
6 Large Onions spice 

4 Green Peppers 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

2 Red Peppers Whole Cloves 

2 Pounds of Brown Sugar 2 Sticks of Cinnamon 
4 Bunches of Celery 

Put the tomatoes, onions and peppers through 
the meat-grinder, or chop fine, and sprinkle over 

43 



PICKLES 

Pickled Cauliflower 

1 Cauliflower 1 Teaspoonful of Whole 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Salt Cloves 

1 Quart of Vinegar 1 Teaspoonful of White 

Mustard Seed 

Pull the cauliflower into pieces, put into cold 
water with the salt, heat gradually and boil five 
minutes, then drain until dry. Put this into a 
glass jar. Boil the clove and mustard seed in the 
vinegar, and pour over the cauliflower, hot. Have it 
covered with vinegar. Seal while hot. 

Green Chopped Pickle, No. i 

1 Peck of Green Toma- 3 Pints of Vinegar 

toes 2 Tablespoonfuls of All- 
6 Large Onions spice 

4 Green Peppers 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

2 Red Peppers Whole Cloves 

2 Pounds of Brown Sugar 2 Sticks of Cinnamon 
4 Bunches of Celery 

Put the tomatoes, onions and peppers through 
the meat-grinder, or chop fine, and sprinkle over 

43 



46 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Chow Chow, No. i 

J^ Peck Green Tomatoes J^ Cupful of Ground 
1 Large Head of Cab- Black Pepper 

bage J^ Ounce of Celery Seed 

6 Large Onions 2 Pounds of Brown Sugar 

3^ Pint Grated Horse- 3 Quarts of Vinegar 

radish 1 Cupful of Salt 
M Pound of White Mus- 
tard Seed 

Chop or grind tomatoes, cabbage and onions, 
very fine and salt over night. Next day, drain 
off the brine, add vinegar and other ingredients, 
then mix well and put into glass jars. Do not cook. 

Chow Chow, No. 2 

1 Peck of Green Toma- 1 Tablespoonful of Cin- 

toes namon 

1 Cupful of Salt 1 Tablespoonful of Cloves 

6 Onions 1 Tablespoonful of AU- 
6 Peppers spice 

1 Cupful of Sugar 1 Even Spoonful of Gin- 
Vinegar enough to cover ger 

Cut the tomatoes, onions and peppers into small 
pieces. Put the salt over them and let stand over 
night. Drain off the liquor the next day and throw 
it away. Mix all together, cover with vinegar and 
simmer until tender. Seal in glass jars. 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 47 

Cold Catsup 

1 Peck of Ripe Tomatoes 2 Tablespoonfuls of Pep- 

2 Tablespoonfuls of Salt per 

1 Teacupful of White 4 Red Peppers 

Mustard Seed 8 Celery Stalks, or 

2 Teacupfuls of Chopped 2 Ounces of Celery Seed 

or Ground Onions 2 Teaspoonf uls of Ground 
1 Teacupful of Sugar Cloves 

3 Pints of Vinegar 

Drain the tomatoes well before mixing. Mix 
together, let stand a few hours and it is ready for use. 

Com Relish 

18 Ears of Com 1 Pint of Vinegar 

1 Onion 4 Cupfuls of Sugar 

1 Cabbage J^ Cupful of Salt 

J^ Pound of Mustard 2 Peppers 

Cut the corn from the cob, chop onion, peppers 
and cabbage, add sugar, salt and vinegar, and cook 
slowly three-quarters of an hour. Ten minutes 
before taking from the fire, add a very scant fourth of 
a pound of dissolved mustard. Seal in glass jars. 

Home-Made Cucumber Pickles 

Take enough small cucumbers to fill four one- 
quart jars; wash and sprinkle over them one cupful 
of table salt; let them remain over night; in the 



48 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

morning, wash and pack in the jars. Add one 
teaspoonful of whole cloves, one teaspoonful of 
whole allspice, one teaspoonful of white mustard 
seed, and two pieces of alum, as large as a pea, to 
each jar. FiU the jars with boiling vinegar, and seal. 

Quickly Made Cucumber Pickle 

Take small cucumbers, wipe clean and lay them 
in a small jar or stone crock. Allow one quart of 
coarse salt to a pail of water. Boil the salt and 
water until the salt is dissolved, skim and pour 
boiling hot on the cucumbers. Cover them tight, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours, then turn out 
and drain. Boil as much vinegar as will cover the 
cucumbers, skimming thoroughly. Put the cucum- 
bers into clean glass jars and pour the vinegar on 
boiling hot. Put in a piece of alum the size of a 
bean, and seal. They will be ready for use in forty- 
eight hours. Add peppers and spice if desired. 

Mixed Pickles 

2 Quarts of Green Toma- J^ Pound of Ground Mus- 

toes tard 

2 Quarts of Cucumbers 3 Cupfuls of Sugar 

2 Quarts of Small Onions 1 Ounce of Tumeric Pow- 
2 Heads of Cauliflower der 

2 Green Peppers 1 Cupful of Flour 

1 Gallon of Vinegar 1 Cupful of Salt 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 49 

Cut the tomatoes, cucumbers, onions. Cauli- 
flower and peppers into small pieces. Pour over 
them boiling brine, made of three quarts of water 
and one cupful of salt. Let this stand twenty- 
four hours, then pour off the brine. Stir the flour, 
mustard, sugar and tumeric powder together, and 
wet with a little of the vinegar, then stir it into the 
boiling vinegar, as you would make gravy. Put the 
other ingredients in, and simmer together until all 
are tender. Seal in glass jars. 

Piccalilli, No. i 

1 Peck of Green Toma- Ij^ Cupfuls of Sugar 

toes J^ Cupful of Salt 

3 Pints of Vinegar 2 Large Spoonfuls of 
3^^ Pint of Green Peppers Ground Cloves 

Chop all together and simmer three hours. 

Piccalilli, No. 2 

1 Peck of Green Toma- 1 Ounce of Whole Cloves, 

toes Allspice, and Mus- 

4 Onions tard Seed 

2 Green Peppers Vinegar to cover 

1 Cupful of Salt 

Slice the tomatoes, sprinkle over the salt, and let 
stand over night. In the morning, pour off the water 
and drain. Slice peppers and onions, tie the spices 



60 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

in a piece of cheese-cloth, put all together, and pour 
over the vinegar. Let simmer three or four hours, 
and seal in glass jars. Very good, and not sweetened. 



Piccalilli, No. 3 

1 Peck of Green Toma- 4 Green Peppers 

toes Allspice, Cloves and Mus- 

1 Cupful of Salt tard Seed 

6 Onions Vinegar 

Wipe clean, cut into small pieces, sprinkle over 
them a cupful of salt, and let stand over night. 
In the morning, drain oflF the liquor, add six onions, 
four green peppers, sliced thin, one ounce each, of 
whole allspice, cloves, and white mustard seed. Tie 
the spices in a muslin bag, cover with vinegar, and 
cook three or four hours slowly, until very tender, in 
an agate kettle. This is much nicer if sealed in glass 
jars. 

Tomato Catsup, No. i 

1 Peck of Ripe Tomatoes 6 Cupfuls of Vinegar 
8 Onions 2 Cupfuls of Sugar 

6 Red Peppers ^ Cupful of Salt 

Chop or grind onions and peppers. Put with 
tomatoes, stew and press through colander, then 
add the rest of the ingredients and boU until it 
is thick. Seal while hot in glass jars. 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 51 

Tomato Catsup, No. 2 

1 Pint of Vinegar 1 Tablespoonful of Black 

2 Quarts of Ripe Toma- Pepper 

toes Allspice 

1 Tablespoonful of Salt 2 Pods Red Pepper 
1 Tablespoonful of Mus- 
tard 

Peel the tomatoes, add salt, black pepper, mus- 
tard, red pepper, and allspice. Mix and stew slowly, 
in the vinegar for two hours. Strain through a 
sieve, and cook until you have one quart. Cork in 
bottles. 

Pickled Watermelon Rind 

Pare off the green rind and all the pink, using 
just the white of the melon. Cut into large squares. 
Cover with water, and put in a pinch of alum. Let 
stand twenty-four hours. Pour off the water and 
drain. Take enough vinegar to cover, add one 
teaspoonful of whole allspice, cloves and white 
mustard seed, and pour over the rind boiling hot. 
Heat the vinegar three mornings in succession, and 
pour over the rind while hot. It will be ready for 
use in a week. 



PIES 

Hich Pie Crust 

3 Cupfuls of Flour 1 Dessertspoonful of Salt 
1 Cupful of Lard 

Put salt and lard into the flour, working in the 
lard with the hand until thoroughly mixed. Add 
enough water to barely wet, — ice-cold water is best. 
This is sufficient for two pies. 

Pork Apple Pie 

4 Apples 1 Teaspoonful of Ground 
4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar , Cinnamon 

" 12 Pieces of Fat Salt 
Pork, size of a Pea 

Line a pie-plate with rich crust; pare, core and 
slice apples thin, to fill the plate; sprinkle over these 
the sugar, cinnamon and pork; cover with crust and 
bake in moderate oven. To be eaten warm. 

Chocolate Custard Pie 

1 Pint of Milk 2 Tablespoonfuls of Cocoa 

4 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar or 
3 Eggs 1 Square of Chocolate 

Finch of Salt 1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla 

52 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 53 

Beat yolks of eggs and add sugar and salt. Wet 
the cocoa with half a cup of warm milk and stir into 
the yolks. Flavor. Line a deep pie-plate with rich 
pie-crust, pinching a little edge around the plate. 
Pour in the mixture and bake until it rises. Beat 
^he whites to a stiff froth, add two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, spread over the pie and brown in a hot oven. 

Cocoanut Pie 

1 Pint of Milk Y^ Cupful of Grated 

3 Eggs Cocoanut 

Pinch of Salt Piece of Butter the size 

of a Marble 

Beat the yolks of the eggs, add sugar and salt 
and beat again. Put in the butter which has been 
melted, milk and cocoanut. Line a deep pie-plate 
with pie-crust and pour in the mixture. Bake until 
it rises — this is not nice if baked too long. Beat the 
whites of the eggs stiff and put on top of pie when it 
is cool. Set in the oven to brown. 

Cranberry Pie 

1 Quart of Cranberries % Cupfuls of Sugar 
%yi Cupfuls of Water 

Line a deep pie-plate with crust. Put the cran- 
berries on the stove, with the water, and cook until 
tender, then rub them through a colander. Put in 
two scant cupfuls of sugar, and boil for fifteen 



54 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

minutes. When cool, pour this into the plate, lay 
narrow strips of pie-crust from the center to the 
outer edge, and bake in a hot oven. 

Cream Pie 

1 Cupful of Sweet Cream ^jz Cupful of Sugar 
White of One Egg 1 Teaspoonful of Vanilja 

Bake with two crusts. Beat white of egg till 
stiff; add sugar, beat again; stir in the cream and 
flavor. 

Old-Time Custard Pie 

1 Pint of MUk 4 Tablespopnf uls of Sugar 

3 Eggs ]/i Teaspoonful of Salt 

Line a deep plate with pie-crust, rolling it large 
enough to pinch up a little edge around the plate. 
Beat the eggs thoroughly, add sugar and salt, and 
beat again; then add the milk and stir well. Pour 
into the plate. Bake until it rises, being sure to 
remove from the oven before it wheys. Grate over 
the top a little nutmeg. The quality of the pie 
depends largely on the baking. 

Frosted Lemon Pie 

1 Lemon 3 Eggs 

1 Cupful of Sugar 2 Tablespoonfuls of Flour 

\)4, Cupfuls of Milk 

Beat the yolks of the eggs, add the flour, the juice 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 55 

and rind of the lemon. Beat all together, add a 
little of the milk, and sugar; beat, then add the rest 
of the milk. Line a plate with crust, the same as for 
custard; pour in this mixture and bake, being careful 
not to let it whey when it is done. Beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, add two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, spread over the top, and set in the oven to 
brown. 

Mock Mince Pie 

13^ Crackers 1 Cupful of Steeped Tea 

1 Cupful of Raisins 1 Egg 

3^ Cupful of Molasses Spices of all kinds (J^ 
J^ Cupful of Sugar Teaspoonful of each) 

^/s Cupful of Vinegar 

Pumpkin Pie, No. i 

3 Cupfuls of Pumpkin 1 Teaspoonful of Cinna- 

(the bright yellow mon 

kind preferred) , Yi Teaspoonful of Nut- 

3 Eggs meg 

\y^ Cupfuls of Sugar 1 Quart of Milk, a little 

1 Heaping Tablespoonful Salt 

of Flour 

Boil the pumpkin till very tender and press 
through a colander. Mix all ingredients together. 
Line two deep pie-plates with a nice crust, and pour 
in the mixture, and bake until they rise. 



S6 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Ptunpkin Pie, No. 2 

2 Cupfuls of Stewed and 1 Cupful of Sugar 

Sifted Pumpkin Pinch of Salt 

2 Crackers Rolled Fine J/^ Teaspoonful of Cinna- 
Boston Crackers or 3 mon 

Uneedas 1 Pint of Milk 

Pour the mixture into a deep pie-plate lined with 
crust, and bake in a slow oven one hour. 

Rhubarb Pie 

1 Pint of Rhubarb 1 Cupful of Sugar 

1 Tablespoonf ul of Flour J^ Teaspoonful of Soda 

Remove the skin, and cut into small pieces 
enough rhubarb to fill a pint bowl. Add the soda, 
and pour over it boiling water to cover. Let stand 
fifteen minutes and pour off the water. Line a deep 
plate with a rich crust. Put in the rhubarb, sugar 
and flour, cover with crust. Bake twenty minutes 
or half an hour. 



Rolley Polys 

Roll pie crust very thin and cut into strips four 
inches long and three inches wide. Over these 
spread jelly and lap the crust over, pressing edges 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 57 

together. Brush over the top with milk and sprinkle 
over a little sugar. Bake fifteen minutes. 



Squash Pie 

2 Cupfuls of Squash 1 Teaspoonful of Ground 
5 Tablespoonfuls of Cinnamon 

Sugar )4= Teaspoonful of Salt 

1 Tablespoonful of Flour 1 Egg 

2 Cupfuls of Milk 

. Pare the squash, boil till tender, and sift through a 
colander. Beat the egg, add sugar, flour, cinnamon 
and salt. Stir these into the squash and add the 
milk, stirring in slowly. Bake in a deep plate, like 
a custard pie. 

Cream Washington Pies 

1 Egg 2 Tablespoonfuls of 

3^ Cupful of Sugar Melted Butter 

1 Cupful of Flour 1 Rounding Teaspoonful 

}^ Cupful of Milk (scant) of Cream of Tartar 

J^ Teaspoonful of Soda 

Cream butter and sugar together, add the well- 
beaten egg; then the milk into which has been stirred 
the soda and cream of tartar; last of all, the flour. 
Bake in three round shallow dishes. 



58 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Cream for Filling 

1 Cupful of Milk 1 Heaping Tablespoonful 

1 Egg of Flour 

A Little Salt 2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar 

J^ Teaspoonful of Vanilla 

Put the milk on the stove to heat. Put the sugar, 
flour and salt into the well-beaten egg and stir into 
the milk when boiling. When cool, add vanilla and 
spread between the layers of cake. 



PRESERVES 

Crab Apple Jelly 

Cover the apples with water and boil until tender. 
Strain through a flannel bag. Boil the juice twenty 
minutes. Add the same amount of sugar, pint for 
pint, and cook five minutes. Pour into tumblers, 
and when cold, cover with paraflBne. 

California Jam 

Divide and seed as many oranges as desired. 
Slice thin, the pulp and skin together. Add to each 
pound of oranges one lemon, sliced thin, and one 
quart of cold water. Let all stand twenty-four 
hours; then cook until tender, with the same amount 
of sugar. 

Canned Cherries 

1 Quart of Cherries 1 Cupful of Water 

1 Cupful of Sugar 

Pick over and wash the cherries. If they are 
to be used for sauce, can them whole; if to be used 
for pies and puddings, remove stones and use less 
water, as there will be juice enough to cook them in. 
Cook until tender and seal when boiling hot. 

59 



60 TfflNGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Cheny Conserve 

4 Pounds of Cherries 8 Oranges 

4 Pounds of Sugar 1 Lemon 

Wash and stone the cherries. Wash and remove 

seeds froiA oranges and lemon. Put them through 

the meat-grinder or chop fine. Cook all together 

twenty minutes, or until thick. Put into tumblers 
and cover with paraffine. 

Preserved Citron 

4 Pounds of Citron S GUIs of Water 

3 Pounds of Sugar 3 Lemons 

Pare the citron and cut into pieces one inch 
square. Cover with cold water, adding a pinch 
of salt. Next day throw off this water and cover 
with fresh water, this time adding a pinch of alum. 
Slice the lemons, removing every seed, and boil until 
tender. Boil the sugar and water together, skim, 
then put into the syrup citron and lemon. Boil 
until it looks rich and transparent. Skim out the 
fruit into jars or tumblers, boil down the syrup for 
ten or fifteen minutes, and pour over the fruit. 
If jars are used, fill to the brim and seal while hot. 
This can be made in the summer from watermelon- 
rind. Cut off all the pink of the melon, pare, and 
prepare as you would citron. It is really very 
nice. 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 61 



Currant Jelly 

Pick currants from the stems and wash clean. 
Put them into a kettle with a very little water 
and cook for ten minutes. Strain through a flannel 
bag. Use one pint of juice to one pint of sugar. 
Boil the juice fifteen minutes, add sugar and boil 
five minutes. Pour into tumblers or jelly moulds, 
and when cold cover with paraffine. 

Spiced Currants 

5 Pounds of Currants 4 Teaspoonfuls of Cinna- 

4 Pounds of Sugar mon 

1 Pint of Vinegar 4 Teaspoonfuls of Cloves 

Boil slowly two and a half hours. Tie the spices 
in a cloth before boiling. 



Cranberry Jelly 

1 Quart of Cranberries 3J^ Cupfuls of Sugar 

Put one quart of cranberries on the stove, with 
cold water enough to cover. Boil until tender. 
Strain through a colander. To this four cupfuls of 
juice add three and a half cupfuls of sugar. Boil 
twenty minutes and turn into a mould which has 
been wet with cold water. 



■i 

62 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Grape Conserve 

5 Pints of Grapes 2 Oranges 

8 Cupfuls of Sugar 1 Cupful of Nut Meats 

J^ Pound of Raisins 

Pick the grapes from the stems, wash, and separate 
the pulps from the skins. Stew the pulps and press 
through a colander. Put the raisins and oranges 
through the meat grinder, after removing seeds. 
Cook all together except the nuts. Add these about 
ten minutes before removing from fire. Put into 
glasses and cover with paraffine. This makes eleven 
glasses. 

Grape Marmalade 

When making grape-juice, use the grape which 
is left after straining, for marmalade. Press through 
a colander, measure and use the same amount of 
sugar. Cook until it thickens and put into tumblers. 
When cold, cover with paraffine. 

Grape Preserve 

Pick from the stenis and wash the amount of 
grapes desired. Squeeze the pulps from the skins. 
Put into a kettle with very little water and boil 
until the seeds loosen. Press through a colander. 
Put this with skins, weigh, and use three-fourths of a 



IBINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 63 

pound of sugar, for every pound of fruit. Cook all 
together until the skins are tenderj usually about an 
hour. Seal in glass jars. • 

Orange Marmalade 

1 Grapefruit 1 Whole Lemon 

1 Whole Orange Juice of Two Lemons 

Juice of Two Oranges 

Chop fruit fine or put through the grinder. Meas- 
ure and put three times the amount of water. 
Let this stand till the next day. Boil ten minutes. 
Stand again till the next day. Measure and add 
equal amount of sugar. Boil until it Jells. This 
will make eleven or twelve tumblerfuls. Pour into 
glasses while warm. When cold', pour over a thin 
coating of paraffine. 

Peach Marmalade 

When preserving peaches or quinces, wipe them 
very clean before paring, and save the skins for 
marmalade. Cook in water enough to cover well 
and, when tender, press through a colander. Meas- 
ure, and add the same amount of sugar. Boil half 
an hour, or until it thickens. Put into tumblers 
and cover with paraffine. This is nice for school 
sandwiches, or for filling for Washington pie or 
queen's pudding. 



64 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

To Can Peaches 

1 Quart of Peaches 2 Cupfuls of Water 

1 Cupful of Sugar 

Be sure to have the jars perfectly clean and 
warm. Glass covers are always preferable. Make 
a syrup of the sugar and water. Boil this hard for 
five minutes. Set back on the stove and let it settle, 
then skim very thoroughly. Pare, cut in half, and 
remove the stones from the peaches. When the 
syrup comes to a boil, put in enough peaches to 
fill your jar, whatever the size. Boil until tender 
enough to pierce with a wisp. Take the fruit out 
carefully with a spoon and place in the jar. Fill 
the jar with the boiling syrup, being careful always 
to cant the jar as you pour it in. If you do this, the 
jar will never crack, as it is likely to do if held per- 
fectly straight or upright. Always run around the 
inside of the jar with a silver knife, and you will 
have no trouble in keeping fruit. Seal while hot. 
The peaches may be canned whole, if preferred. 

Pickled Peaches 

4 Pounds of Sugar 1 Tablespoonf ul of All- 

1 Pint of Vinegar spice 

1 Tablespoonful of Cloves Stick of Cinnamon 

Boil the ingredients together foi' ten minutes be^ 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 65 

fore putting in the peaches. Cook as many peaches 
in this as possible, and have juice enough to fill up 
the jars. Tie the spices in a piece of cheese-cloth. 
Pears may be cooked in the same way. 



Ginger Pears 

10 Pounds of Pears 6 Oranges 

7 Pounds of Sugar 1 Box of Crystallized 

4 Lemons Ginger 

Wipe pears clean and cut fine with sugar. Simmer 
an hour. Then add the lemons and oranges, seeded 
and cut fine, and the crystallized ginger. Let all 
boil together two or three hours. 

Preserved Pears 

1 Quart of Pears 2 Cupfuls of Water 

1 Cupful of Sugar 

Use pears which are just right to eat. Pare 
and drop into cold water, to prevent discoloring. 
Make a syrup of one cupful of sugar and two cup- 
fuls of cold water, and boil the pears in this until 
you can stick a straw through them. Fill the jars 
with the fruit, all you can put in, then hold the jar 
slanting and fill with syrup to the very brim. Use 
whole pears, if preferred. If cut in halves, remove 
the core. 



66 TfflNGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Way to Pickle Pears 

1 Pint of Vinegar J^ Tablespoon! ul of whole 
3 Pounds of Sugar Allspice 

6 Pounds of Pears 1 Tablespoonful of whole 
3^ Tablespoonful of Cin- Cloves 

namon 

Boil pears until tender. Boil vinegar, sugar, 
and spices together fifteen minutes, then put in the 
boiled pears, and cook all together half an hour. 
These will be nicer if sealed in glass jars. 

To Preserve Pineapple 

Peel the pineapple, remove the eyes and cut into 
small cubes. Weigh, and take three-fourths of a 
pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Allow one 
cupful of water for each jar, and cook all together 
slowly until tender. Fill the jars. This is very nice 
for ice-cream or sherbet. 

Quince Jelly 

Pare, core, and quarter the fruit, and boil in 
water enough to cover. When soft, take out the 
fruit and strain the syrup through a flannel bag, then 
return the syrup to the kettle and boil until per- 
fectly clear, skimming constantly. Measure syrup, 
adding an equal quantity of sugar, and boil twenty 
minutes, removing the scum which rises to the sur- 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 67 

face. Pour into tumblers or moulds and set aside to 
cool; then pour over the top a covering of paraffine. 

Quince Marmalade 

Put the quinces, which were boiled in water 
for the jelly, in with the cores and skins. Cover 
with water and boil ten or fifteen minutes. Press all 
through a colander. Measure, and add the same 
amount of sugar. Set on the stove and boil fifteen 
minutes, being careful not to scorch. Put into 
tumblers and cover with paraffine. 

Quince Sauce 

Peel, core, and cut into quarters the quinces. 
BoU in clear water until tender. Weigh the quinces 
before cooking, and put into the water in which 
they have been boiled three-fourths of a pound of 
sugar for every pound of quince. Boil five minutes 
and skim. Then put in the quinces and cook until 
of a dark amber color — ^for about an hour. As 
quinces are expensive, old-fashioned people used to 
put in one-fourth as much sweet apple or pear. 

Raspberry Jam, No. i 

Mash the berries, add equal parts of sugar, and 
let stand half an hour. Put on the stove in a kettle 
containing a half cupful of water, to prevent sticking. 
Boil until it thickens. Put into tumblers and cover 



68 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

with paraffine. Blackberries and strawberries used 
in the same way are veiy nice. 

Raspberry Jam, No. 2 

Mash the berries, and use two-thirds as much 
currant juice as you have berries. Measure, and 
add the same amount of sugar. Cook all together 
until it jells. Put into tumblers and cover Vidth 
paraffine. 

To Keep Rhubarb Through the Winter 

Fill preserve jars with cold water. Cut the 
rhubarb into small pieces, as you would for a pie, 
and drop them into the jars. As they fill, the water 
will overflow. When full, screw the tops on the jars 
and set away. The water excludes the air, and the 
fruit, treated in this way, will keep for months. 
When required for use drain off the water and cook 
in the usual way. 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

5 Pounds of Rhubarb 1 Pound of Chopped Wal- 
5 Pounds of Sugar nuts 

5 Lemons, Juice and 2 Teaspoonfuls of Ex- 

Rind tract of Jamaica Gin- 

ger 

Cook all the ingredients, excepting the nuts and 
ginger, together three or four hours. Ten minutes 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 69 

before removing from the fire, add the ginger and 
nuts. Seal in glass jars, or put into tumblers. If 
tumblers are used, cover over the tops with a coating 
of paraflSne. 

Rhubarb Jam 

6 Stalks of Rhubarb 1 Lemon 

3 Oranges 4 Cupfuls of Sugar 

Cook the rhubarb and rind and juice of the 
lemon and oranges together for twenty-five minutes. 
Put into tumblers and cover with paraffine. 

Spiced Fruit 

6 Pounds of Fruit 1 Pint of Vinegar 

4 Pounds of Sugar 

For all kinds of spiced fruit use the above measure- 
ments, adding one tablespoonful each of cinnamon, 
allspice, and cloves, and cook until tender. Seal in 
glass jars. 



PUDDINGS 

Bread Pudding 

1 Pint of Stale Bread J^ Cupful of Raisins 

1 Quart of Milk 1 Teaspoonful of Cinna- 

1 Cupful of Sugar mon 

1 Egg ^ Teaspoonful of Salt 

Pour hot water over the stale bread and let soak 
until soft. Then add other ingredients and bake 
for three hours in a moderate oven. If eaten cold, 
serve with hot sauce. If eaten hot, serve with cold 
sauce. 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding 

Butter size of a Walnut 1 Square of Chocolate, or 
J^ Cupful of Sugar Two Dessertspoon- 

Yl Cupful of Milk fuls of Cocoa 

1 Cupful of Flour 1 Egg 

1 Teaspoonful of Baking- Salt to Taste 
powder 

Cream together the butter and sugar, then add 
egg and milk; then the cocoa, flour, salt, and flavor- 
ing. Steam for an hour and a half, and serve hot 
with sauce. 

70 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 71 

Graham Pudding 

IJ^ Cupfuls of Graham 1 Egg 

Flour 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

J/^ Cupful of Molasses J^ Cupful of Raisins and 
J/^ Cupful of Milk Currants, mixed 

]/i Cupful of Butter Salt and Spice to taste 

Stir the soda into the molasses, then add the 
beaten egg and milk, salt and spice, and melted 
butter. Add the flour and, last of all, currants 
and raisins, which have been sprinkled with flour. 
Steam two hours in a tin pail set in a kettle of water 
and serve hot with sauce. 

Hasty Pudding 

Into a dish of boiling water (a double boiler is 
best) stir Indian meal, very slowly. Let it cook for 
an hour. The water should be salted a little. Turn 
this into a bowl. The next day, or when perfectly 
cold, cut into slices and fry in pork fat or hot lard. 
This is served with molasses. 

Baked Indian Pudding 

2 Quarts of MUk 1 Cupful of Molasses 

1 Cupful of Yellow Com- J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 
meal 

Put one quart of the milk into an earthen pudding- 
pot, and the other quart of the milk into an agate 



t 

I 
72 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

dish, on the stove, to scald. Stir the meal into the 
hot milk slowly, one handful at a time, until it 
thickens. Remove from the stove and add molasses, 
pouring the mixture into the cold milk. Bake six 
hours in a slow oven; serve warm with cream. If 
properly cooked; it will be red and full of whey. 

Orange Pudding 

4 Oranges 3 Eggs 

3 Cupfuls of Milk 2 Tablespoonfulsof Com- 

1 Cupful of Sugar starch 

Pinch of Salt 

Remove peel and seeds from the fruit and cut 
fine. Sprinkle over the oranges half the sugar. 
Let stand for a few hours. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs, add the rest of the sugar, cornstarch and salt, 
and stir into the boiling milk. Pour this, when 
cooled, over the oranges and sugar. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Spread this over the top and 
brown in the oven. To be eaten cold. 

Plum Pudding 

Take ten or twelve Boston crackers, split them 
open and soak over night in milk. Use a large pud- 
ding dish that will hold three or four quarts. Put in 
a layer of crackers, a handful of raisins, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg, and a 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 73 

little butter on the crackers; repeat this three times. 
Have a layer of crackers on the top. Make a custard 
of three or four eggs, five is better, one cupful of 
sugar, a little salt, and milk enough to fill the dish 
within two inches of the top. Bake in a slow oven 
four or five hours. Let stand until cold, and it will 
slip out whole. Serve with hot sauce. 

Queen's Pudding 

1 Pint of Bread 1 Cupful of Sugar 

1 Quart of Milk 1 Teaspoonful of Butter 

3 Eggs 1 Lemon 

Soak one pint of bread in a quart of milk till 
soft. Beat together the yolks of the eggs, sugar, 
butter, and the juice and rind of half a lemon. Stir 
all together and bake until it rises, about an hour 
and a half. When nearly cold, spread the top with 
jelly, and then the white of the eggs, beaten stiff. 
Brown in the oven. To be eaten cold. 

Poor Man's Rice Pudding 

1 Quart of Milk 1 Piece of Butter, size of 
1 Small Cupful of Sugar a Hickory Nut 

Yi Cupful of Washed J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 

Rice (scant) 1 Teaspoonful of Vanilla 

Bake slowly for three hours; the success lies in 
the baking. If baked right it will be creamy on top. 



li TfflNGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

Suet Pudding 

1 Cupful of Molasses 1 Teaspoonful of Soda 

1 Cupful of Milk J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 

1 Cupful of Chopped Suet 1 Teaspoonful of Clove 
1 Cupful of Raisins 1 Teaspoonful of Cinna- 

3 Cupfuls of Flour mon 

1 Teaspoonful of Nutmeg 

Beat the soda into the molasses, add milk, salt 
and spices. Cover the raisins and suet with some of 
the flour, stir all together. Steam three hours in a 
tin pail, set in a kettle of boiling water. Serve hot 
with cold sauce, made of one cupful of sugar and 
one-third cupful of butter, creamed together. Grate 
a little nutmeg over the top. 

Tapioca Cream 

1 Quart of Milk 1 Teaspoonful of Com- 
5 Tablespoonfuls of starch 

Tapioca 2/3 Cupful of Sugar 

3 Eggs Pinch of Salt 

Soak the tapioca in a little warm water for an 
hour. Put the milk on the stove in a sauce pan. 
Add the sugar and salt to the beaten yolks of the 
eggs. When the milk is scalded put in the soaked 
tapioca and when boiling, stir in the eggs. Cook 
a few minutes and remove from fire. Stir in the 
beaten whites and flavor. To be eaten cold. 



SAUCES 

Chocolate Sauce 

1 Tablespoonful of Butter 1 Cupful of Sugar 

2 Tablespoonfuls of 4 Tablespoonfuls of Boil- 

Cocoa ing Water 

Put the butter into an agate dish on the stove; 
when melted, stir in the cocoa and sugar dry; add 
boiling water and stir until smooth. Add vanilla to 
taste. 

Cold Sauce 

Cream together one-half cupful of butter and one 
and one-half cupfuls of sugar. Grate a little nutmeg 
over the top. 

Cranberry Sauce 

Pick over and wash one quart of cranberries; 
cover with cold water and cook until tender. Re- 
move from the fire, rub through a colander and 
sweeten to taste. 

Cream Mustard 

y^ Cupful of Vinegar J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 

Yl Cupful of Sweet Cream 1 Tablespoonful of Mus- 
1 Egg tard 

Put the vinegar on the stove and let it come to a 

75 



76 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

boil. Have the cream, salt, mustard, and egg well 
beaten together, and pour the boiling vinegar over 
them, then set the whole over boiling water and stir 
constantly until it thickens. When cold, it is ready 
for use, and is very nice. 

Egg Sauce, for Chocolate Pudding 

2 Cupfuls of Sugar 1 Cupful of Boiling Milk 

1 Egg Flavoring 

Beat the egg and sugar together, and pour over it 
the boiling milk, and flavor. 

Pudding Sauce 

1 Cupful of Sugar 3 Heaping Teaspoonfuls 

J^ Cupful of Butter of Cornstarch 

1 Pint of Water Flavoring 

Cream together the butter and sugar. Wet the 
cornstarch with a little water; stir it into the pint of 
boiling water and, when thickened, pour it over the 
butter and sugar. Add the flavoring. 

Salad Dressing 

J^ Cupful of Vinegar 1 Egg 

Yi Cupful of Water 2 Tablespoonfuls of Sugar 

M Cupful of Milk 1 Tablespoonful of Flour 

Piece of Butter size of a 1 Tablespoonful of Mus- 
Walnut tard 

J^ Teaspoonful of Salt 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 77 

Put the vinegar, water and butter on the stove, 
in an agate dish, to boil. Mix together sugar, flour, 
mustard and salt, stir into the beaten egg with the 
milk, and add to the boiling water and vinegar. 
Let boil until it thickens. This is quickly and easily 
made, very nice and always a success. 

Sauce, for Graham Pudding 

1 Cupful of Sugar 1 Lemon 

H Cupful of Butter Y^ Pint Boilmg Water 

lEgg 

Cream together the butter and sugar, add the 
well-beaten yolk of egg, pour over this the boiling 
water, juice of lemon and well-beaten white of egg. 



SOUPS 

Bean Porridge 

Pick over and wash two-thirds of a cupful of 
white beans. Put on the back of the stove in cold 
water. Let these boil slowly, while the dinner is 
cooking. When the boiled dinner has been taken 
up, put these beans into the liquor in which the 
dinner was cooked. Boil one hour. Wet three 
tablespoonfuls of flour with water, and stir in while 
boiling, to thicken. Serve hot, adding a little milk, 
if you like. 

Connecticut Clam Chowder 

S or 4 Slices of Salt Pork 1 Teaspoonful of Parsley 

3 Potatoes 25 Soft-shelled Clams 

J^ Onion 1 Quart of Water 

1 Cupful of Tomatoes Salt and Pepper 

3 Crackers 1 Cupful of Milk 

Cut three or four slices of salt pork and fry in the 
bottom of a kettle. Add the potatoes cut into dice, 
onion shaved, a cupful of stewed tomatoes, rolled 
ship crackers, minced parsley, soft-shelled clams, 
and boiling water. Add salt and pepper to taste and 
cook till the potatoes are tender. A little hot milk 
may be added just before taking up. 

78 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 79 

Massachusetts Clam Chowder 

3 Quarts of Clams 8 Boston Crackers 

6 Medium-sized Potatoes 4 Slices of Salt Pork 
1 Small Onion 

Wash the clams clean, put them on the stove 
to cook, with one pint of cold water. Boil until 
the shells burst open. Remove from the stove, 
pour the clam liquor into an earthen dish and 
set away to settle. When the clams have cooled 
a little, pick them from the shells, remove the 
night-caps, cut off the head, to the shoulders, 
washing each clam. Cut three or four slices of 
fat salt pork and fry in the bottom of a kettle, 
with half an onion. Skim these from the fat, pour 
in the clam liquor, add a little hot water. When 
this boils, add the raw potatoes, which have been 
pared and sliced thin, and cook until tender. Split 
the crackers open and soak tUl soft in milk or water. 
Add these and the clams to the potatoes. Cook 
ten minutes, then add a quart of milk and salt, if 
needed. Do not let it boil after adding the milk. 
Serve hot. This is very delicious. 

New England Fish Chowder 

4 Slices of Fat Salt Pork 2 or 3 Pounds of Fresh 
6 or 8 Potatoes Haddock or Codfish 
1 Small Onion 8 Boston Crackers 

Fry the salt pork, with the onion, in the bot- 



80 THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 

torn of a kettle, skim from the fat, and pour in 
about a quart of water. Slice the potatoes thin, 
after they have been washed and pared. Make 
alternate layers of fish and potatoes, seasoning 
each layer with pepper and salt. Cook until both are 
tender. Then put in the split crackers, which have 
been soaked in milk or water, as for clam chowder. 
Cook for ten minutes. Pour in a quart of milk, add a 
small piece of butter and serve hot. 

Lamb Broth 

2 Pounds of Fore-Quarter 1 Tablespoonful of Salt 

of Lamb 1 Teaspoonful of Sage 

2/3 Cupful of Rice Leaves 

Put the lamb into a kettle, cover with cold water, 
add the salt and cook three hours. As the water 
boils away, add more. Wash the rice, allowing three- 
fourths of an hour to cook; jput in the sage, about 
fifteen minutes before serving, and thicken with two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, wet in two-thirds of a cupful 
of water. The sage may be left out if preferred. 

A Good Oyster Stew 

25 Oysters Butter 

1 Teaspoonful of Flour Salt 
1 Quart of Milk 

Take twenty-five oysters, with their liquor and 
put these into an agate dish on the stove with salt to 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 81 

taste, in a pint of cold water. Boil five minutes. 
Stir into this one heaping teaspoonful of flour, which 
has been wet with two tablespoonfuls of cold water. 
Add one quart of milk. Let it come to a boil, but 
be sure not to have it boil. Remove from the fire, 
and add a piece of butter the size of an egg. This is 
sufficient for eight people. 

Potato Soup 

4 Potatoes Piece of Butter size of an 

3 Pints of Milk Egg 

Small piece of Onion 

Take four large potatoes, boil until done and 
mash smooth, adding butter and salt to taste. 
Heat the milk in a double boiler, cook the onion in 
it a few minutes and then remove. Pour the milk 
slowly on the potato, strain, heat and serve im- 
mediately. Thicken with one tablespoonful of flour. 



VEGETABLES 
Green Corn Fritters 

2 Cupfuls of Corn, grated H Cupful of Flour 

from the cob 1 Level Teaspoonful of 

2 Eggs Cream of Tartar 

A Little Salt J^ Level Teaspoonful of 

H Cupful of Milk Soda 

Beat the eggs, then add the milk and salt. Stir 
the corn into the dry flour, wetting with the milk 
and eggs, then fry in hot lard. 

Delicious Stuffed Baked Potatoes 

Bake six potatoes, or enough for family. When 
done, set away to cool slightly. Cut oflE a small 
piece, scoop out the inside, mash, add butter, salt, 
and milk, also tiny bits of parsley, if liked. FiU the 
shells with this mixture, put back in the oven and 
bake until brown. 

Creamed Potatoes 

4 or 5 Baked Potatoes Y^ Teaspoonful of Salt 
1 Pint of Milk Butter, the size of a Wal- 

nut 

Pare the potatoes and cut into small pieces. Put 
them on the stove, in an agate dish, salt and cover 

■. - 82 , 



THINGS MOTHER USED TO MAKE 83 

with milk. Let them cook fifteen or twenty minutes, 
then thicken with one tablespoonful of flour, stirred 
with half a cupful of water; put in the butter and 
serve hot. 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Butter a baking-dish, pare and slice potatoes 
in small pieces. Put into the dish with salt, pepper 
and a little butter. Fill the dish with milk, sprinkle 
over the top cracker or bread crumbs, and cheese, if 
you like it. Bake in the oven for an hour and a half 
or two hours. 

Baked Tomatoes 

6 Tomatoes A few Stalks of Celery 

2 Cupf uls of Bread Crumbs Hearts 

Small piece of Onion Salt and Pepper to taste 

Cut off a small piece of each tomato and scoop 
out the inside. Mix this with two cupfuls, or the 
same amount of bread crumbs, the chopped onion, 
salt and pepper. Then fill the tomatoes with this 
mixture, putting small pieces of butter over the top. 
Place these in a pan in which is a very little water, to 
prevent sticking, and bake in a hot oven from twenty 
minutes to half an hour. 

Fried Tomatoes 

Pare and slice (not very thin), dip into flour and 
fiy on a griddle ia hot fat. 



APPENDIX 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS OLD AND NEW FOR 
HOUSEKEEPERS YOUNG AND OLD 

To Save Confusion in the Home 

"Plan your work, then work your plan." 

Monday — ^Wash, if you have it done in the house. 
If sent out, use that day for picking up and putting 
things in order, after the disorder of Sunday. 

Tuesday — ^Iron. 

Wednesday — Finish ironing and bake; wash 
kitchen floor. 

Thursday, Friday — ^Sweep and dust, thoroughly. 

Saturday — ^Bake, and prepare in every way pos- 
sible, for the following day. 

Have in or Near Your Sink 

A handle dish cloth. 

A wire dish cloth. 

A cake of scoiu:ing soap. 

A small brush for cleaning vegetables. 

These articles are indispensable. Also have two 
cloths, which must be kept perfectly clean. 
One for washing dishes. 
One for washing sink. 

87 



88 APPENDIX 

Homemade Shortening 

Do not throw away small pieces of fat from pork, 
lamb or steak. Put them on the stove, in a skillet 
or agate dish and cook them till there is nothing 
left, but scraps. Then pare a potato, wash clean, 
cut into thin slices and cook in the fat for a half 
hour to clarify it. Strain through a cloth. This will 
be good to fry doughnuts in and for all purposes, 
where shortening is needed, except for pie crust. 

Pieces of fat, not fit for shortening can be saved 
in some old utensil and made into kitchen soap. 

To Make Tea and Coffee 

Always use freshly boiled water. Do not boil 
more than three or four minutes. This is very im- 
portant, in making a good cup of tea or coffee. Never 
use water which has stood in the teakettle over 
night. 

A Use for Left-over Coffee 

Do not throw away the coffee you have left from 
breakfast. If you do not care for iced coffee for 
dinner, make a little coffee jelly, by the recipe on 
page 27. 

Never Throw away Old Underclothes 

Keep them for housecleaning, for washing win- 
dows and for washing lamp chimneys. Old pieces of 



APPENDIX 89 

calico, or flannel make good holders to use about 
the stove. Wash, boil and dry cleaning cloths when 
soiled, that they may be ready for use again. 

That Leaky Hot-Water Bag 

Do not throw away an old hot-water bag because 
it leaks. Fasten over the leak, a strong piece of 
adhesive plaster. Fill the bag with sand or salt and 
cover with flannel. It will hold heat for a long time, 
and can be used instead of the water bottle. 

To Keep your Hands White 

Keep a piece of lemon in your bathroom or 
kitchen. It will remove stains from the hands. 

To Brown Flour 

Spread flour upon a tia pie plate, put it in a hot 
oven, and stir constantly, after it begins to brown, 
until it is all colored. Keep always on hand. It is 
good for coloring and thickening gravies. 

Lemons and Fish 

Lemon juice makes ^ very grateful addition to 
all kinds of fish. Thin slices of lemon, with sprigs of 
parsley, around a platter of fish, makes a pretty 
garnish. 



90 APPENDIX 

To Try out Lard 

If you want good sweet lard, buy from your 
butcher, leaf lard. Skin carefully, cut into small 
pieces and put it into a kettle or sauce pan. Pour 
in a half-cupful of water, to prevent burning, and 
cook slowly, until there is nothing left but scraps. 
Remove the scraps with a skimmer, salt it a little, 
and strain through a clean cloth, into tin pails. Be 
sure not to scorch it. 

How to Keep Eggs 

In the summer, when eggs are cheap, buy a suffi- 
cient number of freshly laid ones to last through the 
winter. 

Take one part of liquid glass, and nine parts of 
cold water which has been boiled, and mix thor- 
oughly. 

Put the eggs into a stone crock, and pour over 
them this mixture, having it come an inch above the 
eggs. The eggs will keep six months, if they are 
perfectly fresh when packed and will have no taste, 
as when put into lime water. 

Save your Old Stockings 

Old stockings are fine for cleaning the range. Slip 
your hand into the foot and rub hard, or place an 
old whisk broom inside. It will make the sides and 



APPENDIX 91 

front of the range clean and sMny. In fact, you will 
seldom need to use blacking on these parts. 

When Washing Lamp Chimneys 

If you live in the country and use kerosene lamps, 
do not dread washing the chimneys. Make a good 
hot suds, then wash them in this, with a clean cloth 
kept for that piu:pose. Pour over them very hot 
or boiling water and dry with an old soft cloth. 
Twist a piece of brown paper or newspaper, into a 
cornucopia shape and place over the chimneys to 
protect from dust and flies. 

To Remove Disagreeable Odors from the House 

Sprinkle fresh ground coffee, on a shovel of hot 
coals, or burn sugar on the shovel. This is an old- 
fashioned disinfectant, still good. 

To Lengthen the Life of a Broom 

Your broom will last much longer and be made 
tough and pliable, by dipping for a minute or two, 
in a pail of boiling suds, once a week. A carpet will 
wear longer if swept with a broom treated in this 
way. Leave your broom bottom side up, or hang it. 

To Prevent Mold on Top of Glasses of Jelly 

Melt paraffine and pour over the jelly after it is 
cold. No brandy, paper, or other covering is neces- 
sary. 



92 APPENDIX 

To Clean Nickel Stove Trimmings 

Rub with kerosene and whiting, and polish with a 
dry cloth. 

To Clean Zinc or Copper 

Wash with soap suds and powdered bristol brick. 
When perfectly dry, take a flannel cloth and dry 
powdered bristol or any good cleaning powder and 
polish. You will be pleased with the result. I have 
tried this for forty years. 

How to Prevent Button Holes from Fraying 

When making button holes in serge or any ma- 
terial which frays, place a piece of lawn of two thick- 
nesses, underneath and work through this. 

Another way is to make four stitchings in the 
goods the length of the button hole. Cut between 
these, leaving two stitchings each side of the hole. 

When Making a Silk Waist 

Stitch a crescent shaped piece of the same material 
as your waist under the arm. It will wear longer 
and when the outside wears out it looks neater than 
a patch. If the waist is lined, put this between the 
lining and the outside. 

To Make Old Velvet Look New 

Turn hot flatirons bottom side up. Rest these on 
two pieces of wood, or hold in your lap. Put over 



APPENDIX 93 

them a piece of wet cloth, then lay the velvet on this. 
Brush with a whisk broom. The steam from the 
wet cloth will raise the nap and take out the creases. 

Onion Skins as a Dye 

K you wish for a bright yellow, save your onion 
skins. They will color white cloth a very bright 
yellow. This is a good color for braided rugs, such as 
people used to make. 

To Remove Egg Stain from Silver 

Salt when applied dry, with a soft piece of flannel 
will remove the stain from silver, caused by eggs. 

Put a Little Cornstarch in Salt Shakers 

This will prevent the salt from becoming too 
moist to shake out. 

How to Color Lace Ecru 

If you wish for ecru lace and you have only a piece 
of white, dip it into cold tea or coffee, until you 
have the desired color. 

To Keep Lettuce Crisp 

Put it into a paper bag and place right on the ice. 
It will keep a week in this way. 



94 APPENDIX 

To Keep Celery 

Do not put it into water. Wrap it in a cloth, wet 
in cold water and place directly on the ice. 

To Keep a Piece of Salt Pork Sweet 

Put it in a strong brine made of one quart of cold 
water, and two-thirds of a cup of salt. 

Save Potato-Water 

Pare potatoes before boiling, and then save the 
water, to mix your yeast bread with. 

A Use for the Vinegar Off Pickles 

When your pickles have been used from your glass 
jars, do not throw away the vinegar. Use it in your 
salad dressing. It is much better than plain vinegar 
because of the flavor. 

Do not Allow a Child to Eat Fresh Snow 

This often looks clean and pure but fill a tumbler 
with it, cover to keep out the dust and then show it 
to the child, that he may see for himself, the dirt it 
contains. 

When Making Hermits or Cookies 

Instead of rolling and cutting as usual, drop the 
dough into a large iron pan. The heat of the oven 



APPENDIX 95 

melts them into one sheet. Cut them into squares 
or long narrow strips. It takes much less time, than 
the old way of rolling and cutting. 

To Clean a Vinegar Cruet on the Inside 

Put into it shot, pebblestones, or beans. Fill it 
with a strong soap suds, and one teaspoonful of 
bread soda or ammonia. Let stand an hour, shake 
well and often. Rinse with clean water. 

To Make Tough Meat, or a Fowl Tender 

Put one tablespoonful of vinegar, into the kettle 
while boiling. 

To Remove Black Grease 

Rub patiently with ether. It will not leave a 
ring, like gasolene, and will remove every trace of 
the stain. 

To Keep an Iron Sink from Rusting 

Wash with hot suds. When diy rub it well, with 
a cloth wet with kerosene. Do this three or four 
times a week and your sink will look well, all the 
time. 

How to Add Salt to Hot Milk 

Salt will curdle new milk, so when making gravies, 
or puddings, put your salt into the flour, or with eggs 



96 APPENDIX 

and sugar, to add when the milk boils. Use a double 
boiler for milk gravies and gruels. 

To Soften Boots and Shoes 

Rub them with kerosene. Shoes will last longer, 
if rubbed over with drippings from roast lamb. Old- 
fashioned people always used mutton tallow on 
children's shoes. 

A Way to Cook Chops 

Pork or lamb chops are very nice, if baked in a 
hot oven. Turn them as they brown. It saves the 
smoke in the room. 

When Cooking Canned Com 
Place it in a double boiler to prevent scorching. 

Salted Almonds 

Shell the nuts and put into boiling water. When 
they have stood for fifteen or twenty minutes, the 
skin will slip off easily. When dry, mix a half-tea- 
spoonful of olive oil or butter, and a quarter of a 
teaspoonful of salt, with a cupful of nut meats. 
Spread on a tin pan, and place in a hot oven. Bake 
fifteen or twenty minutes. Watch closely and stir 
several times, as they bum quickly. T^eat peanuts 
in the same way. 



APPENDIX 97 

Before Washing Colored Clothes 

It is wise to set the color first, by soaking in a 
strong solution of cold salt water (one cupful of 
salt to half a pail of water). Soak two hours. 

To Remove Iron Rust from White Goods 

The old-fashioned way, still good, is to wet the 
place in lemon juice, sprinkle on it common table 
salt, and lay it in the sun. In these later days, there 
is on the market an iron rust soap, which removes 
the spot quickly, also an ink eradicator, sold by all 
druggists. 

How to Make Starch 

Two tablespoonfuls of starch should be made into 
a smooth paste with four tablespoonfuls of cold 
water. Pour over this three pints of boiling water, 
stirring rapidly all the time. Starch the garments, 
while they are still wet. In the olden days, people 
made starch of flour in the same way, for linen and 
gingham dresses, as it was less expensive and thought 
to be just as good for colored clothes. 

When you Go Away from Home for a Few Days 

Plan your meals before leaving. This simplifies 
matters for the one left in charge, and is often found 
to be of importance financially. 



98 APPENDK 

The Proper Way to Sweep a Room 

Dust the furniture and put it in another room. 
Dust bric-a-brae and put on the bed if you are 
sweeping a sleeping room, if another room put them 
on the table, or in an adjoining room. Brush the 
draperies, take down and lay on the bed or table. 
Cover these and bric-a-brac with a sheet. Wet a 
newspaper, tear into small pieces and spread on the 
rug or carpet. Now you are ready for sweeping. 
If the floor is carpeted, sweep all dirt to the center 
of the room. Sweep the comers with a small whisk 
broom. Move every piece of furniture lest there 
be dirt left underneath. Open the windows before 
sweeping. When the dust is settled take a pail of 
warm water, put in a tablespoonf ul of ammonia, then 
with a clean cloth wrung from this wipe the window 
glass, mirror and pictures; polish with dry cloth. 
Wipe aU finger marks from doors and mop boards. 

Now take a pail of clean water, with ammonia, 
and with a small scrubbing brush go over the rug or 
carpet, to remove dust and brighten the colors. Re- 
place furniture, bric-a-brac and draperies and your 
room will be sweet and clean. With care, once in 
two or three weeks, will be often enough to do this. 

When Baking Cup Custards 

Set them into a pan of hot water. When you re- 
move from the oven, place them in a pan of cold 
water, to prevent longer cooking. 



APPENDIX 99 

When Using Currants and Raisins 

Mix a little dry flour with currants and raisins 
before adding them to cakes or puddings. It will 
keep them from falling to the bottom. 

Try Baking Beets, Instead of Boiling Them 

They are much sweeter. Three or foiu* hours is 
necessary, according to size. 

When Making Grape Juice or Jelly 

Before adding the sugar, strain through a flannel 
bag. It will be much clearer. 

When Sewing Braid on a Dress 

Slip a piece of pasteboard three or four inches 
long, into the hem. You can sew more quickly, and 
your stitches will not show on the right side. 

To Skin Beets 

When you remove beets from the kettle, plunge 
them into a dish of cold water. The skins will slip 
oflf easily with the hand. Never cut or pare beets 
before cooking. 

A Fine Way to Keep Cut Roses 

Immerse them at night in a pail of cold water, 
blossoms down. 



100 APPENDIX 

To Keep Carnations 

Put a little salt in the water, which should be 
changed each morning, and cut the stems a little 
each time. 

When Pies are Ready to Bake 

Put little dabs of lard, on the top crust, then hold 
it under the faucet, letting cold water run over it. 

A Way to Make Pies Brown and Shiny 

Just before putting a pie in the oven, brush over 
the top with mUk, using a soft brush or a clean piece 
of cheese cloth. 

When Threading a Needle 

Place a piece of white paper under the eye. You 
will be surprised at the ease, with which you can 
thread it. 

Make your Own Baking Powder 

Get your grocer to weigh for you one pound of 
cream of tartar, and one-half pound of bread soda. 
Sift these together nine times in a flour sitter. Put 
in a tin can, and it is ready for use. 

To Prevent Children from Losing Mittens 

Sew strongly to each mitten, four or five inches of 
narrow black ribbon (use a colored one if you prefer). 



APPENDIX 101 

Sew the other end of ribbon to the coat sleeve. The 
child can remove mittens at any time without losing 
them and always know where they are. 

Teach a Child to Hang up his Own Coat and Hat 

Have some hooks, low down in the closet or 
kitchen where a child can reach them easily, to be 
used only by himself. 

To Keep your Own Umbrella 

Take a piece of narrow white tape, three or four 
inches long. With a glass pen, or a new clean steel 
one, and indelible ink, write your name upon it. 
Sew this to the inside of the umbrella. 

To Wash a White Silk Waist, or a Baby's Bonnet 

Use cold water and white soap. Hot water will 
turn white silk yellow. 

When Ironing Embroidery 

Place it right side down on a piece of soft 
flannel, ironing on the wrong side. If flannel is not 
at hand, try an old turkish towel. 

To Wash Small Pieces of Lace 

Put in a horse radish bottle and pour over them, 
strong soap suds, good and hot, and shake well. Let 



102 APPENDIX 

stand awhile and shake again. Rinse in clear, wann 
water, by shaking. Dry on a clean cloth in the 
sunshine. 

Never Throw away Sour Milk 

It is excellent for graham bread, gingerbread, 
brown bread, griddle cakes, and doughnuts, also 
biscuit. 

You can make a delicious cottage cheese of a very 
small quantity. 

Set the milk on the back of the stove, in an agate 
dish. Let stand until the whey separates from the 
curd. Strain through a cloth, squeezing the curd 
dry. Put in a little salt, a small piece of butter, 
and a little sage if desired. Press into balls and 
serve. 

Mark New Rubbers 

Take a pointed stick — ^a wooden skewer from the 
butcher's is best — dip it into ink and write the name, 
on the inside. 

Economical Hints 

Save small pieces of soap in the bathroom, by 
placing in a cup or small box, until you have a cupful. 
Add a little water and boU a few minutes; when 
nearly cool, press with the hands, and you have a 
new cake of soap. 

Do not throw away the white papers aroimd 
cracker boxes. They are good to clean irons and 



APPENDIX 103 

will save buying ironing wax. If irons are dirty 
put a good layer of salt on newspaper and rub the 
irons back and forth. 

Save even the coupons on your soap wrappers. 
You can get a silver thimble for your mending bag 
with them, if nothing more. 

Save your strong string, to wrap around packages 
going by parcel post. Also fold nicely for further 
use your clean wrapping papers. Make a bag of 
pretty cretonne, hang in the kitchen or cellar way, 
to keep the string and wrapping paper in. You 
will find it very convenient. 

Do not throw away small pieces erf bread. Save 
them for plum pudding, queen's pudding, or dressing 
for fish or fowl. If broken into small pieces and 
browned in a hot oven, it is very nice to eat with 
soups. Or, dry well, roll fine and keep in a glass 
jar, to be used for breaded pork chops, croquettes, 
or oysters. 

To Mend Broken China 

Stir into a strong solution of gum arabic, plaster 
of Paris, Put this on each side of the china, holding 
together for a few minutes. Make it as thick as 
cream. 

To Clean Old Jewelry 

Wash in warm water containing a little am- 
monia. If very dirty rub with a brush. This is very 
good also for cleaning hair brushes and combs. 



104 APPENDIX 

Dish Washing Made a Pleasure 

First of all, remove all refuse from the dishes. 
Place them near the sink, large plates at the bottom, 
then the smaller ones, then saucers. Have a large 
pan full of very hot water. Make a good soap suds 
by using a soap shaker. Wash the tumblers and all 
glassware first, and wipe at once. Use a handle 
dish cloth (which can be bought for five cents), for 
these, as the water will be too hot for the hands. 
Wash the silver next. Have a large pan, in which 
to place the clean dishes, cups and bowls first. When 
all are washed pour over them boiling or very hot 
water, and wipe quickly. Pans and kettles come 
last. Always have a cake of sand soap or a can of 
cleaning powder, for scouring the pie plates and 
bottoms of kettles. It is very little work to keep 
baking tins and kitchen utensils in good condition, if 
washed perfectly clean each time they are used. 

Wash the dish towels, at least once every day, and 
never use them for anything else. With clean hot 
water, clean towels, and plenty of soap dishwashing 
is made easy. 

If you live in New England, your sink will be 
in front of a window. Be sure and plant just out- 
side of this window nasturtiums, a bed of pansies, 
morning glories and for fall flowers, salvia. These 
bright blossoms will add to your pleasure while 
washing dishes. 



APPENDIX 105 

A Space Saver 

If you are crowded for space in closet, kitchen or 
pantry buy a spiral spring, such as is used for sash 
curtains. Fasten the end pieces to the back of the 
door, and stretch the spring from end to end. You 
now have a fine place to hang towels, stockings or 
neckties, or if used in a pantiy, to keep covers. 



Another Space Saver 

If you have no closet in your room, get a board, 
nine inches wide, and three or four feet long. Put 
it in the most convenient place in your room on two 
brackets. Stain it the color of your woodwork. 
Screw into the under side of the board, wardrobe 
hooks. Now get a pretty piece of cretonne or denim, 
hem top and bottom, and tack with brass headed 
tacks to the shelf, having it long enough to come to 
the floor, and around the ends of the board. Use 
the top for a book shelf or hats. 



If the Freshness of Eggs is Doubtful 

Break each one separately iato a cup, before 
mixing together. Yolks and whites beaten sepa- 
rately, make a cake much lighter than when beaten 
together. 



106 APPENDIX 

When Bread Cooks Too Quickly 

When your bread is browning on the outside, be- 
fore it is cooked inside, put a clean piece of brown 
paper over it. This will prevent scorching. 

To Remove the Odor of Onions 

Fill with cold water kettles and sauce pans in 
which they have been cooked adding a tablespoonf ul 
of bread soda and the same of ammonia. Let stand 
on the stove until it boils. Then wash in hot suds 
and rinse well. A pudding or bean pot, treated in 
this way, will wash easily. Wood ashes in the water 
will have the same effect. 

Never Leave a Glass of Water or Medicine, Un- 
covered in a Room 

This is very important. Water will abcorb all the 
gases, with which a room is filled from the respiration 
of those sleeping in the room. 

Weights and Measures 

4 Teaspoonsfuls equal 1 tablespoonful of liquid. 

4 Tablespoonfuls equal half a gill. 

2 CofiFee-cupfuls equal 1 pint. 

2 Pints equal 1 quart. 

4 Coffee-cupf uls of sifted flour equal 1 pound. 

1 Quart of imsifted flour equals 1 pound. 



APPENDIX 107 

1 Pint of granulated sugar equals 1 pound. 

1 Coffee-cupful of cold butter pressed down equals 
1 pound. 

An ordinary tumbler holds the same as a coffee 
cup. 

It is well to have a tin or glass cup, marked in 
thirds or quarters for measuring. 

When to Salt Vegetables 

Every kind of food and all kinds of vegetables 
need a httle salt when cooking. Do not wait until 
the vegetables are done. Salt the water they are 
boiled in after they begin to boil. 

What to Serve With Meats 
Roast Beef and Turkey 
Squash, turnips, onions and cranberry sauce. 

Roast Pork 
Spinach, onions and apple sauce. 

Roast Lamb 
Mint sauce. 

Roast Mutton 

Currant jelly and vegetables. 

With all kinds of meat and fowl pickles are always 



108 APPENDIX 

good. Make your own pickles, after recipes found 
in this book. 

The Length of Time to Cook Meats 

Lamb 

Roast a leg of Iamb three hours. Wash clean, 
sprinkle over it a little flour and salt and put into a 
pan, with cold water. While it is cooking, take a 
spoon and pour over it the water from the pan, three 
or four times. 

Veal 

Roast veal three hours, treating it the same way 
as lamb. When you have removed it from the pan, 
make a smooth paste, by wetting two or three table- 
spoonfuls of flour with cold water, and stir into the 
water left in the pan. Pour in more water, if the size 
of your family requires it. 

Beef 

Roast beef requires fifteen minutes for each pound. 
Do not salt beef, untU you take it from the oven. 

Ham 

Boil a ham of ordinary size three hours. Let cool 
in the water in which it is boiled. It is very nice to 
remove the skin, while ^arm, stick cloves in the 
outside, sprinkle over it a little vinegar and sugar and 
bake for one hour. 



APPENDIX 109 

Sausages 

Sausages are very nice, baked in a hot oven twenty 
minutes. Prick with a fork to prevent bursting. 
Do this too, if fried. 

Corned Beef 
Should boil four hours. 

Chicken 

A chicken will cook in one hour and a half. A fowl 
requires an hour longer. Don't forget to put in one 
tablespoonful of vinegar to make tender. 

Turkey 

A ten pound turkey needs to cook three hours, in 
a slow oven. 

The Length of Time to Cook Vegetables 
Onions 
Boil one hour. Longer if they are large. 

Cabbage 
Requires one hour and a half. 

Parsnips 
Boil two or three hours according to size. 



110 APPENDIX 

Carrots 
Wash, scrape, and boil one hour. 

When Paring Tomatoes 

Put them into very hot water and the skin will 
come o& easily. 



Printed iu the United States of America. 



