
W' 



1^ 




^RMir 






TV ,^^ ^Cornell University Library 
TX 715.K55 



The people's home recipe book, 




3 1924 000 677 975 



^^ 




^w 



Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/cletails/cu31924000677975 



TIEP 





IBOOK II 

or THE 



HOME 
LI BRARY 




BY 

MRS. ALICE 6ITCHELL KIRK 

LECTURER AND INSTRUQOR 
IN DOMESTIC SCIENCE. 
AUTHOR'MRS, KIRKS CARD INDEX 
COOKING RECIPES"and "HANDY 
EXPENSE CARDS FOR HOUSE KEEPERS': 




CLEVELAND, OHIO, 

Published by 

THE R. C. BARNUM CO. 

Cleveland, Ohio — Minneapolis, Minn. 
Boston, Mass. 



IMPERIAL PUBLISHING CO. 

TORONTO, CANADA 



1920 



COPVRIGHTKD I9I0, 

BY 

R. C. BARNUM. 
All Rights Rbserved, 



OOFYMGHT NOTICE. 

The recipes for which credit is given to "Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking 
Recipes" are protected by the following copyrights : "Mrs. Kirk's Card Index 
Cooking Recipes," Copyright 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk ; " Supplemental 
Set No. 1," Copyright 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk; " Supplemental Set 
No. 2," Copyright 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk ; " Supplemental Set No. 3," 
Copyright 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk ; " Supplemental Set No. 4," Copy- 
right 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk; "Supplemental Set No. 6," Copyright 
1909, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 

" Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes " and '* Supplemental Sets '• are 
published by the Yawman and Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 



AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 



Though the world is full of cook books of every description, yet it has 
been my experience that there are few of them that are more than a collection 
of recipes. There are few really good teachers of the science of cooking. For 
the past thirty years the author has been engaged in teaching of some kind, 
ranging from kindergarten work to assistant at Chicago University and from 
private teacher of cooking to Public Lecturer on Domestic Science. This 
training has not only given me a knowledge of the subjects in hand but has 
perhaps rendered me capable of imparting this knowledge to others in a way 
to be easily, understood by all. 

Having managed a home of my own for twelve years and having lived 
in both the country and the city have probably given me a knowledge of the 
practical needs of the average home. Further than this, I am called upon reg- 
ularly each week by 'phone to direct the culinary affairs of many Cleveland 
homes, thus giving me the practical experience which is lacking in so many 
teachers X)f Domestic Science. Furthermore, during the past five years I have 
delivered (and am still engaged in the lecture work) a series of over six hun- 
dred public lectures on cooking, a larger number than ever before delivered 
on this subject by any woman in one place. These things have brought me in 
direct contact with thousands of people of all classes, given me a knowledge 
of their needs and at the same time fitted me for imparting this knowledge to 
others in a practical way. 

Having been principal of private schools and being at the present time a 
member of " The Domestic Science and Art Association " of Cleveland, and 
" The American Home Economics Association " of Chicago, and also State 
Secretary of " The Associated Clubs of Domestic Science " has brought me in 
contact with many of our ablest instructors in Domestic Science and aflforded 
me an excellent opportunity to get the best and most modern ideas relative 
to the science of cooking. These ideas I have endeavored to incorporate in 
this work, leaving out the technical things and making them practical for the 
home. 

I believe in having system in the home and a business-like management 
of household affairs as is attested by the fact that I am author of " Mrs. Kirk's 
Card Index Cooking Recipes " and also of " Handy Expense Cards for House- 
keepers " and ** Correct Combinations of Foods for Daily Use." 

I have given over two hundred of my choice recipes in this work and for 
these I have adopted the form used in my " Card Index Recipes." It will be 
noticed at a glance and without reading the recipe, one can tell just what 
materials are required and the quantities of each. One can also tell the utensils 
that are necessary and thus have everything in readiness before beginning the 
work. Then are given full and complete directions for 'putting together and 
cooking the ingredients. These directions I have endeavored to make so 
simple and complete that the girls and the young housewives with no previous 



ii PREFACE. 

experience can use these recipes and be certain of good results. Tr ougn the 
cook with many years of experience may become so skillful that she can 
"guess" at quantities and generally get good results, yet it is necessary for 
the inexperienced to observe absolute accuracy in following every instruction. 
In fact, the time has gone by for " guessing " at quantities. Use accuracy and 
you will never have failures for the same cause always gives the same 
results. 

Preceding each chapter will be found the general principles underlying 
the science of cooking and I believe it will pay every woman to carefully study 
and follow these rules, for cooking is now as much of a science as is any other 
branch of knowledge, I believe that cooking and the management of house- 
hold affairs should be a pleasure rather than a drudgery. I believe that a 
knowledge of proper foods and the proper way of preparing them is one of 
the most important sciences, for our health and temperament, arid conse- 
quently our happiness and sue'cess in life, largely depend upon what we eat. 

Though the two hundred recipes make dainty and attractive dishes, yet I 
have had due regard to economy and the " Favorite Home Recipes for Every 
Day Use " have been gathered from mothers living in all parts of the world. 
They are the dishes " like mother used to make," and I believe they will be 
found the most simple and practical collection of recipes for every day us'b that 
has ever been published. 

It has been my object in this work, not only to give some of the gf^neral 
principles underlying the art of cooking, but also to give simple and practical 
recipes that can be used in every home in the country. 

THE AUTHOR. 



CONTENTS. 



Author's Preface -. o . . . « I 

MRS. KIRK'S DEPARTMENT. 

The Housekeeper's Science of Cooking or Domestic Science in the Home 1 

Bread Making 7 

Cakes 14 

Meats 33 

Meat Substitutes and Substantial Meals Without Meat 30 

Eggs i 37 

Sauces , 43 

Soups 46 

Vegetables 51 

Salads and Salad Dressings 63 

Desserts 68 

Bieverages 80 

Chafing Dish Cookery 86 

The Canning of Fruits and Vegetables 90 

Preserving and Jelly Making . ^ ; . . . . 95 

Pickling :...'. 101 

THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPES FOR EVERY-DAY USE, 

Bread Making 105 

Light Breads Ill 

Cake Making ; 119 

Meats, Poultry, Game, Fish, Oysters and Croquettes 139 

Soups 140 

Eggs 143 

Vegetables ^ 148 

Relishes, Cheese and Chafing Dish Cookery , 151 

The Art of Candy Making 154 

Pies T. 163 

Salads and Salad Dressings 166 

Puddings and Sauces 170 

Creams and Custards 176 

Ice Creams, Sherbets and Ices 178 

Beverages 181 

Canning, Preserving and Jelly Making 185 

Pickling 189 

Preserving Meats 195 

What to Do and How to Do It 197 

Supplement 3^0 

Index 323 

iii 



/ 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



PAGE 

Portrait of Mrs. Auce Gitchell Kirk Frontispiece 

No. I. Table Laid for Single Service for Informal Dinner Laid for Sout 

Course Followingiv 

No. 2. Dishes to be Used in Informal Dinner Following Table Laid for 

' Soup Course as Shown in No. i .Followingiv 

No. 3. Table Laid for Coffee and Dessert Following iv 

No. 4. Table Set for a Dinner Where the First Course is a Fruit Cocktail Following iv 

No, S. Table Set for a Dinner Where the First Course is a Fruit Cocktail Following iv 

No. 6. A Kitchen Cabinet and Conveniences in a Modern Kitchen Following iv 

No. 7. A Few of the Larger Necessary Kitchen Utensils (14 Cuts) Followingiv 

Na 8. A Few of the Smaller Necessary Kitchen Utensils (15 Cuts).... Followingiv 




(Photographed especially for this book.) 

NO 1 TABLE LAID FOR SINGLE SERVICE FOR INFORMAL DINNER 

LAID FOR SOUP COURSE. 

The soup plate is on a service plate which is an eight or ten-inch plate. Observe 
closely the accuracy with which knife, fork, spoons, goblet and other service are placed 
on the table. The soup spoon is placed to the right of the knife and the soup ladle to 
the right of the soup spoon. Using left hand for removing cover of tureen, you are 
ready to take the ladle in right hand and serve soup which may be passed to other 
members of the family at table. j ,.,.,,, . „, 

The water glass or goblet should alwrys be placed at end of knife blade, ihe 
bread and butter plate is on the left side at end of fork. The silver is always used 
from the outside toward the plate, either from right or left. Napkms should always 
be placed on left side of fork. Twenty-four inches is the usual space allowed for each 
cover or person. 




(Photographed especially for this book.) 

NO. a. DISHES TO BE USED IN INFORMAL DINNER FOLLOWING TABLE 
LAID FOR SOUP COURSE AS SHOWN IN NO. 1. 

Note convenience and care in arrangement of the dishes to be used for the re- 
mainder of this dinner. It saves a great deal of time and anxiety to have every dish 
in readiness for use and, at the same time, this table should be as attractive as the 
dining table. For time saving this table ma;^ be drawn up close to the hostess where 
she may easily reach many things without rising from the dining table. 




NO. 



(Photographed especially for this book) 
3. TABLE LAID FOR COFFEE AND DESSERT. 



This r^resents the same table shown in No. 1 at close of dinner. The dessert 
spoon and after-dinner coffee spoon are at the right of the dessert plate which is 
brought in with the finger bowl on it and set down before each guest, the finger 
bowl being removed to the back and left of the plate. Then the dessert is brought 
in and passed or placed on the dessert plate, the water and claret glasses remaming 
during the entire meal. When dessert is finished the finger bowl is replaced on the 
plate ready for use. The tips of the fingers are dipped in the water _ and wiped on 
the napkin. Never put the napkin in the finger bowl. If necessary to wipe the lips, do 
this by wetting the finger tips, touching the lips and then wiping with the napkm. 

The coffee percolator is convenient and sociable and adds very much to the final enter- 
tainment of the guests and is coming more and more into every-day use. 




(Photographed especially for this book.) 

NO. 4. TABLE SET FOR A DINNER WHERE THE FIRST COURSE IS A 

FRUIT COCKTAIL. 

This is to be followed with a soup course or not as one chooses. The small plate 
holding the cocktail glass is on the regular ten-inch service plate which is to remain on 
the table for any other course which is to follow up to the regular meat course when 
it is to be removed and regular dinner plate brought in. 

The knives, forks and spoons are arranged in their respective places. The fork 
to right of knife is the one to be used for the cocktail; or, if much juice is in the cocktail, 
a spoon should be substituted in place of fork, being laid in exactly the same place 
as the cocktail fork. All silver placed to the right of the meat knife is supposed to be 
used preceding the meat course. 

Note the arrangement of the glasses: the water glass at the end of the kmfe 
blade; cordial glass next, which is taken at the beginning, of the meal; the sherry glass 
next, which usually comes with the fish course and may be omitted if no fish is served; 
and the next is the claret glass which is to be used during the entire meal. 




(Photographed especially for this book.) 

NO. 5. TABLE SET FOR A DINNER WHERE THE FIRST COURSE IS A 

FRUIT COCKTAIL. 

This is the same as No. 4 except change in Center Decorations. (See description 
of No. 4.) 




(Photographed especially for this book.) 

NO. 6. A KITCHEN CABINET AND CONVENIENCES IN A MODERN 

KITCHEN 

In the kitchen most women take too many steps in preparing meals or doing 
their ordinary baking. _ Much of this work _ may be accomplished while sitting on a 
stool which should be in every kitchen. Besides showing all the conveniences gathered 
in one spot for comfortable working this illustration shows utensils in readiness for 
bread making — the bread mixer to the left. Note the_ accurate measuring cup which 
is divided into halves, quarters and thirds and is very important to use in all cooking. 
In fact, there is no such thing as luck in cooking in these days and accurate measurement 
is absolutely necessary. With all supplies and utensils in one place much labor and 
drudgery are saved in the kitchen. Note Recipe and Expense Cards at left. 




p.^ bo" '^M 
r lu o O.— 4J 

l£3Q5t>OOOSO 



11 V ti 

— o 



oj 4) bob 

^ U u ti 
^ rt (fl O +* 

o S S 0+; 
o o rt y 3 




w 

.H ^• 
. S S 

1-1 g a>J= . 
►^ u a »« o 

I-" < tnWf-i 

:2; . 

W ^ 

M 
^ u 

^ H 

O •— * 

•S <; 
I. w 

o OT 

.2 S 

CO CxJ 

" 3 

''^ TtI 2i S « n)i3 






la 

a 
3 

S 

u 

3 



c 
o 
o 
a 

M 

fig's 



'thcIco-* 

IC4C4C40) 



^ s.-So5ro 
«MU>tn 

' fe ... 



o 

12: 



S"-! ft 
rt-O B u S 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S SCIENCE OF COOKING 

OR 

DOMESTIC SC IENCE I N THE HOME. 

■ 1. i" Good cooking means the knowledge of all fruits, herbs, balms and spices, and all that 
« liealmg and sweet m fields and groves, and savory in meats. It means carefulness, inven- 
tiveness, watchfulness, wiUmgness and readiness of appliances. It means the economy of 
your great-grandmothers and the science of modem cbettasts.''—Ruskin. 
THE HOUSEKEEPER'S CREED. 

I believe housekeeping and cooking is and should be interesting and 
worthy work and that the majority of women would enjoy it if they had the 
opportunity to know more of its science ; that it must be considered elevating 
—the highest art— and not a menial and brainless occupation. If a man is not 
^ ashamed of his profession or work, there is no reason why a woman should 
be ashamed of hers. 

I believe before marriage every woman should show to the man she 
is to marry that she thoroughly understands the work of making and keeping 
the home on a perfectly systematic and business basis, as much as the man has 
shown her that he has a profession or business capable of providing the income 
for the maintenance of home and family. 

I believe that marriage is a life partnership with mutual interests as well 
as love; a partnership of square dealing and equally shared responsibilities, 
and should not be entered into from any other motive. 

It is reasonable to suppose that the young woman should be able and 
willing to keep house as conscientiously as she has taught school or music or 
used the typewriter. 

Can you use the salary of the young man wisely, economically and- so that 
each of you may live comfortably, besides saving a little for the proverbial 
" rainy day?" This question should be answered before marriage. 

I believe home making, housekeeping and all that goes with it is not 
drudgery, is not a narrow sphere for the woman, but that it is the very high- 
est type of living. 

" He who gives us better homes, better books, better tools— a fairer outlook and wider 
hope— him will we crown with la\xre[."-^Emerson. 

WHAT CONSTITUTES HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 

Not many years ago everything made to meet the needs of the people was 
created in the home. Now, as different shops and factories have taken most 
of the productions and developed them into large and flourishing industries 
and manufactories, there are two jjroblems always to face, and these are — 
production and consumption. It is interesting to watch the wonderful strides 
of today in producing wealth, but it is of at least equal importance how this 
money is spent ; and the home is the center for the consumption of this weajth. 
It has been said by students of Home Economics that the greatest financial 
losses come through the home. If this be true, then women should begin to 
have a better understanding of th^ practice of economy in the home. First, 
th«y should help and encourage in every way to increase the income; and 



3 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

second, to lessen the expenditures. It is not always what we earn, bnt how 
that is spent that insures the best economy and results in perfect, or nearly 
I^erfect, household management. At the present time the difficulty with the 
housekeeper is not so much that she has lack of income, as that she tloes not 
always spend wisely. 

Women are almost having their first real awakening to the fact that they 
must acquire more knowledge and skill to do the work in the home success- 
fully and thus live better and have greater enjoyment and prosperity. 

Home-making is, or should be, a business. The home has close business 
relations with the grocer, butcher, merchant, bank and in fact the business 
world in general and only business-like methods can succeed. 

Begin early in life with your daughters and train them in systematic 
household management and home-making and there will be fewer financial 
failures in the business world. 

HOUSEKEEPING A PROFESSION. 

Housekeeping has passed the days of mere drudgery and now ranlfs among 
the professions. 

There is much thought exercised by the well trained and tKoughtfrd house- 
wife who plans and directs and knows herself how to do any of the work in 
the home. 

We know this work takes more brains than dollars, and education and 
training are necessary for the woman who selects the food, clothing and all the 
works of art for the uplifting and growth of a' well-balanced family, mentally, 
morally and physically. She should be trained in the estimation of values, 
in food, clothing and household furnishings. 

She should have had practice in the various duties of a home before mar- 
riage. Otherwise the expense comes at the wrong time, which is unjust to 
the man. Mrs. Ellen H. Richards says, " By teaching the girl under fourteen 
how to cook, she will do it naturally and easily when she is a housewife." If 
women knew how to do this work well, it would cease to be a drudgery. 

A good business man has to know his business thoroughly and apply to 
it ordinkry business principles and systematic methods in order to succeed. 
The same is true of housekeeping. 

HOME EXPENDITURES AND ACCURATE RECORDS. 

" An economical household, not a stingy one, makes a successful and contented home." 
-~Preeman. ■ ^ 

" In olden times women thought and thought before they spent, often 
making the spending a burden. Now women often spend and then think and 
think and think." , There shpuld be some happy medium. 

If we have studied pure foods, good taste in dressing and the same in 
fui nishings for the home, we have made great advance in the lessening of 
home expenditures. Accurate accounts should be kept of the allowance for 
such use and what it is sjrent for. There are many ways of doing this but one 
of the simplest is a card index system on which the expenditures for the day, 
not itemized, but headings, may be quickly noted and footed up at the end of 
the week. This is absolutely necessary for system and economy in the home. 

It is true, that all the members of the family must unite in this if it is 
successful. They must all agree upon a universal or given standard of living. 
It is better to divide the income to cover the necessary expenditures and then 
try to live within it. The figures must be before you or you will find waste 
and more waste. One housekeeper recently said to me in trying my Expense 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE. , 3 

Cards, " I found I was not losing on my regular e;q)enditures, such as gro- 
ceries, etc., but my ' miscellaneous ' was appalling." Tweiity-five cents today 
and another tomorrow seems very little but for a month or year it means 
much Idss. 

ORGANIZATION AND DIVISION OF LABOR. 

It is very easy for most of us to imagine the home where no system or 
prganizatiqn exists. — ^There is no order; things are placed here today and 
there tomorrow and valuable time is spent in searching for articles which have 
no settled resting place. This kind of living, or staying, more properly speak- 
ing, reacts upon every member of the household. The work is much harder 
and costs infinitely more in time, strength and money than a definite and well 
regulated home would cost. " It. is not the revolution that wears out the 
machinery, it is the friction," and nowhere is this so true as in the home. If 
the housewife has had no training or experience her troubles are legion. It 
is first in knowing how and what to do, the proper division of this labor, and 
when it is to be done. It makes very little difference whether it is the woman 
with no servants or one with several. It is now conceded by every thinking 
individual that the housewife must not only know how the work is to be 
done ; but must be able to plan, systematize and direct the same. 

Applying this knowledge every day, one need not carry the kitchen or 
three meals a day " on their shoulders " from morning until night, but have 
reguJar hours for definite and systematic work, recreation or study. It is very 
easy to direct " Mary " to do the washing, bake a cake and have company for 
dinner, and it is quite another thing to know the necessary time required to 
do these things. 

System is the keynote of the home. Each day's work should be_ planned 
in advance ; in fact, a written or printed plan of work should be in every 
kitchen. Then a written menu of the meals.. These maybe written on cards, 
one for each day of the week, and indexed under the card index system so uni- 
versal now. On the opposite page may be references showing where recipes 
for certain dishes may be found, or any other notes. The grocery order should 
be made out and the refrigerator consulted at the same time. " Woman's 
work," it is said, " is never don«." It has been largely her own fault. Plan, 
systematize, and pigeon-hole your work ; in other words, get rid of it, w;hich 
will be a wonderful care-remover. 

Woman's life, as a rule, is made up of little things. This is particularly 
true in the spending of small sums of money ; five cents here and there, then 
a dime, quarters and, dollars until in this small spending they do not realize 
that " tremendous whole." 

I repeat, housekeeping is a profession and it is the careful watching of 
just the right time to buy, and what to buy, that constitutes good household 
management. Much depends on the manner or style of living whether you 
should buy in large or small quantities. Find the happy medium between 
the hand to mouth style of living and the buying in too large quantities, which 
may mean waste. Mariceting is an art. We had better say to market well is 
an art. Buy foods in season as nearly as possible. If you can only purchase 
a little, buy that which is good. and use every bit of it. It is the little wastes 
that fill the garbage can. 

A WELL EQUIPPED KITCHEN AND THE UTENSILS. 

" The best is the cheapest " is a good rule to follow. In many homes th«. 
surprise is that the meal can be prepared with the meager kitchen equiptnent 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



\ 



provided. Be proud of your kitchen and utensils but take care of them. The 
very best of utensils may soon be useless if placed over too hot fires, especially 
gas. On the other hand a medium priced article in the hands of a skilled 
worker may outwear the very best utensil in the hands of a careless one. 

Many accessories in the kitchen have come to be looked upon as " must 
haves " through long use. The evidence of utility in everything, together 
with good taste and judgment in every selection, are the great essentials in 
buying -kitchen as well as other utensils. 

Fireless Cookers and Steam Cookers are doing much to overcome this, 
as in either o>f these methods of cooking neither food nor utensils can be burned. 
Do not buy every new thing that comes out. Find out whether it is of prac- 
tical use, then buy it and use it. Too many articles and in inconvenient places 
are as bad as not enough. Have a convenient drawer or hook for utensils and 
always have them in that place and, no other. 

The Fireless and Steam Cookers and Bread lyiixers are among some of the 
kitchen utensils that have come to stay and it is the intelligent, thinking, up- 
to-date housekeeper that is Ipoking for the practical, helpful and attractive 
equipment for her kitchen. 

KITCHEN UTENSILS. 



Range 

Refrigerator 

Steam Cooker 

Fireless Cooker 

Tea kettle 

3 stew pans, 1 qt. to 3 qts. 

Steel spider, 9 

Double boiler, 2 qt. 

Steel frying pan, 7 

Toaster 

Frying basket 

Spatula 

Muffin pan 

Colander 

Coflfee pot 

Tea pot 

Food chopper 

Chopping knife and bowl 

Strainers 

Bread mixer 

Bread pans, 2 or more 

Bread board 

Rolling pin 

Flour sieve 

Pans or basins, 

Bowls, about 5 

Dish pan 

Drainer 

Floor and stove brushes 

Broom 

Steel knives and forks, 3 

French vegetable knife 

Vegetable 'brush 

Cream whip 

Egg beaters, Dover and flat wire 

beater 
Covered roaster 
Cake pans, layer, S 



2 or more 

in assorted sizes 



Meat and bread knives 
Loaf pan, square, oblong or oval 
Sponge cake pan , 
Sink strainer 
Scales 

Soap shaker 

Potato and vegetable press 
Salt box 
Gmter 

Measuring cups, 1 tin and 1 glass 
Lemon squeezer, glass 
Pie plates, 3 or more 
Skewers 
Skimmer 
Table spoons, 3 
Tea spoons, 3 
Measuring spoon 
Bread box 
Funnel 

Vegetable and pudding dishes, 2 
Potato masher, wood 
Garbage pail 

Waste basket, closely woven 
Receptacles for flour, sugar, cereals, con- 
diments, molasses, etc. 
Kitchen cabinet or table 
Chair 

High stool 

Slotted wooden spoon 
Wooden spoon, small size 
Casserole 
Custard cups 
Tin mold f 
Coffee mill i 
Clothes hamper 
Carpet sweeper 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes 
Mrs. Kirk's Housekeeping Expense Cards 



DOMESTIC SCIENCE. 5 

XAUNDRY EQUIPMENT. 

Wash tubs, 2 medium, 1 large Soaps 

Wash board, medium Clothes basket 

Clothes pins Ironing board 

Clothes line ~ Irons 

Boiler Clothes stick 

Wringer Clothes pole 

Wash tub bench Clothes horse 

Bluing Small vegetable or nail brush (for 

-^ Starch fringes) 

HOUSEKEEPER'S EVERY DAY SCHEDULE. 

"In any community organized on really healthy lines, the average woman will have 
quite enough to do in her own home, whether she is rich or poor. Nowhere else can she 
do work of such value to the nation." — Theodore Roosevelt. 

Kitchen calendars or schedules have probably been written for nearly 
every cook-book published. It has been a serious question in my mind how 
much time and thought to devote to this. If the housekeeper will use it, it is 
worth while. If she is a " guess cook " or " near enough " it would be waste 
of time to prepare it. 

With the thousands of women with whom we have come in contact in the 
past four years, I know they are steadily advancing along the line of better 
and more wholesome living, and more accurate cooking. By such these pages 
will be read and consulted or a copy made and framed to hang in the kitchen. 
One of the most difficult problems the housewife has in her cooking is deter- 
mining the tamperature of the oven for baking. Moderate, hot, very hot, cool,^ 
etc., may not mean the same thing to one that it does to another. Thermom- 
eters are coming into general use, are inexpensive and will do much to not 
only relieve the anxiety attending the baking, but there will not be failures 
as before when it was all guess work. We are learning to be systematic and 
accurate in all that pertains to housekeeping and cooking ; and as a result work 
is easier and we have better cooked foods with fewer failures. 

A half-pint measuring cup of tin or glass can be purchased at any depart- 
ment store for five or ten cents, and it is standard for all recipes given^ Do 
not expect perfect results using a tea cup one time and a coflfee cup another, 
or guessing at the halves, thirds or quarters. No matter what your experi- 
ence or judgment, in order to have a recipe give perfect results, alvrays — ^wifti 
all conditions equal — there are certain measurements which must be strictly 
followed. 

TABLE. 

1 cup equals \ % pint or regular measuring cup 

4 tablespoonfuls % pint or regular measuring cup 

1 gill equals % pint or regular measuring cup 

1 pint equals 1 pound 

1 cup of butter % pound 

2% cups powdered sugar 1 pound 

2 cups of sifted flour % pound 

1 rounding tablespoonful of flour % ounce 

1 rounding tablespoonful of sugar 1 ounce 

1 rounding tablespoonful of butter .~ 1 ounce 

GENERAL TIME FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. 

Boiled Potatoes ; . 30 minutes 

Boiled Rice 15 to 30 minutes 

Baked Potatoes 45 minutes 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes 35 minutes 

Baked Sweet Potatpes 45 minutes 

Boiled Turnips ^ 80 to 30 minutes 



6 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

New -Carrots 30 minutes 

Old Carrots 60 minutes 

Green Corn— boil 5 to 10 minutes 

Green Peas, fresh IS minutes 

Green String Beans 45 miniates 

Green Shelled Beans 4S minutes 

Green Lima Beans .' 30 minutes 

Sliced Cabbage 20 minutes 

Boiled Cabbage 1 hour 

Cauliflower 30 minutes 

Squash 20 minutes 

Stewed Tomatoes 20 minutes 

Onions 45 minutes 

Celery 30 minutes 

Ba!:ed Bananas ' 30 minutes 

Baked Apples 25 minutes 

BAKING. 

" She can bake, she can broil, she can fry, 
Ne'er a cake does she spoil, nor a pie. 
She's perfectly neat, 
Her temper is sweet. 
And this is the reason why." 
Mitch depends upon the regulation of heat in planning any definite time 
for baking ; an oven may be slow for some things, quick for others and so on. 
Follow recipes and note the time and kind of oven given; this will be of more^ 
service to the housekeeper than all the tables ever written, Bread and cake 
cannot be baked once or twice in three months and you know much about tem- 
perature of the oven. This knowledge of ovens only comes by continual prac- 
tice, or, as before stated, by the use of a thermometer often enough to become 
perfectly famihar with its registrations. 

TABLE SETTING AND SERVING. 
(Table Etiquette.) 
When hearts are light and spirits gay 
You almost hear the table say: 
"These people give me hearty cheer, 
I'ni very glad they're round me here." 
If food is wholesome, linen white, 
China and silver polished bright, 
{ With pride the table spreads its leaves. 
Glad to dispense what it receives. 
With friends in loving converse near 
The table speaks for all to hear. 
It says as plain as table can: 
" Draw round me all, I'm spread for man.'' 

—Table Talk. 
The duty of setting the table usually falls to the daughter of the housij, 
if there is one. If not, the mother has this added responsibility if she^as no 
helper in the home, and even then, if she wants care and neatness in this most 
artistic work, as the maid of all work does not have time to devote to it. 
There should be a certain personality in the setting of a table that belongs to 
some member of the family. 'And there are some absolutely fixed rules for 
the placing of the service on the table. 

In the first place the linen should be spotless and white and as fine as your 
style of living will warrant ; the simpler linens for every, day use and the finer 
ones for special occasions. They may be all this, but if they are not ironed 
with great care and the corners of cloth and napkins folded perfectly even, 
the very foundation of table setting is a failure. 



BREAD MAKING. 7 

Have a soft pad or undier-cloth on the tatile before the cloth is laid. The 
linen then wears better, looks richer, and there is less noise from the dishes 
and silver. Lay the cloth perfectly smooth and straight, being careful in doing 
this not to make a wrinkle. Place the knives to the right of each place with 
the blade turned toward the plate and the fork to the leSt, each one inch from 
the edge of the table and allowing about twenty-four inches for each guest. 
Place teaspoons to the left of the fork and soup spoons and oyster fork to 
the right of the knife. Do not place too much silver on the table at once; 
better have it brought in later, as needed, by the one doing the serving. 
Place the butter plate back to the left of the tip of the fork, and the water glass 
to the right at the tip of the knife. 

The napkins should be folded perfectly square and placed to the left of 
the forks. The remaining setting of the table all rests entirely upon the in- 
genuity and good taste of the housewife. Just a suggestion — ^keep it simple 
rather than have too much on it. Nothing speaks more loudly for the refine- 
ment of a family than the perfectly set table. 

In the serving, when a maid is in attendance, all food should be served 
from the left side. If it is passed, to be set down, from the right side. Nearly 
eighty- five per cent, of the families are without help in this country; conse- 
quently, most of the serving is done at the table; or, members of the family 
take turns and in this manner there is less confusion. 

bread"making. 

(Including Muffins, Rolls, Pop-Overs, Gems and Griddle Cakes.) 

" Full many a gem which should have raised serene. 
Burns to a crisp behind the oven door, 
And many a sack of flour is borne to burst unseen, 
And waste its whiteness on the kitchen floor." 

Flavor, in bread, by many people is considered one of the first requisites ; 
and the difference in flavors is entirely due to the amount of soluble carbohy- 
drates and the kind of flour which will produce the greatest per cent, of gluten 
both in quality and quantity; and again upon the fermentation used in the 
making. 

Every housekeeper who wishes to be able to make perfect bread,, should 
acquaint herself thoroughly on the subject of " flours." And any of the best 
cook-books will enlighten her on the stibject with very little effort on her part. 
The housekeeper must know all she possibly can of flour, yeast, fermentation 
and baking, in order to attain anything like success. There are two distinct 
kinds of flour called Spring and Winter. 

The Spring wheat is stronger and contains the greater amount of gluten 
f muscle building food), and for this reason will retain more moisture and 
produce a greater number of loaves of bread than the Winter. I mean by 
this the hard Spring wheat. Personally, I prefer a blending of Spring and 
Winter wheat, providing the mixture is largdy Spring. 

A good bread flour should be a rich creamy yellow> rather " sandy " in feel- 
ing and should fall apart easily when taken between the thumb and forefinger. 
Good pastry flour is not so yellow in appearance and is easily packed into a 
little cake, when pressed between the thumb and forefinger. 

In the following recipes for bread making it has not been possible to give 
the exact amount of flour, as different flour, even from the same mill, re- 
quires more or less liquid. 



8 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

These liquids may be water, milk, or milk and water together. The most 
wholesome bread is made without butter or lard. If you are in doubt about 
your yeast, a little sugar may be used, which will help to create the neces- 
sary activity. Of course, you will not expect good bread from poor yeast; 
but the sugar will aid the growth of yeast plants still alive. Butter and lard 
retard the yeast and when used a little additional yeast should be supplied. 

Bread should be well kneaded and this is more easily accomplished by 
using a Bread Maker. It is the only hygienic way to knead the bread, and 
these machines can be purcixased at from $1.35 to $3.50 and are a great saving 
both of time and labor. Bread can be well made and spoiled in the baking. 
The oven should be ready for the bread, and that at a temperature of what is 
called a " quick " oven, or if you use the oven thermometer ten minutes aftar 
• 12 for twenty minutes, and then cooling to five minutes of 12, for the remain- 
ing twenty-five minutes. Remove the bread from the oven; do not cover, 
but allow the air to circulate freely around it. When cool place in a clean, 
dry, bread box, which has been washed, dried over a little heat and closed to 
keep out any particles of dust, which carry germs, producing mold. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfff. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 1. VERY BEST BREAD. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Milk 1 Cup 

Water 1 Cup Have the bread mixer clean, scalded 

Salt ...; y. ; r. ;.".;;;; " i TeaspoonM ^"^A, screwed in place. Low, if you 
. ,, 1/ ^ , wish to sit down to use it and high 

Compressed Yeast.... % Cake jf you ^re going to stand, so you do 

Bread Flour 6 Cups not have to stoop. Put the milk and 

water into the stew pan and bring to 

UTENSILS- *^^ scalding point. Pour this into the 

„ , ,,. ,, ' . ^ mixer and let cool to lukewarm. Dis- 

Bread Mixer Measuring Cup ^^^^^ ^^e yeast in half a cup of luke» 

Stew Pan Measuring Spoon warm water, add a little flour, about 

two or three teaspoonfuls, cover and set 
— ■ this to rise, while the milk and watet 

mixture is cooling. When that is luke- 
warm, add the yeast sponge, and only 5 cups of the flour all at once, with the 
salt. It is better to add the remaining cup of flour as you see that it is needed, 
but be very careful and not put in too much flour as this will make the bread 
dry. Now turn the mixer for about 15 minutes, then if it is still sticky, add 
the remaining flour, half a cup at a time until your dough is just right. 
It is kneading, as much as the flour, which relieves the stickiness and makes 
it smooth and springy to the touch; better too little, rather than too much 
flour. About 20 or 30 minutes is usually sUifficient for this kneading in the 
mixer, then cover and set in a warm place. Now this does not mean hot, 
nor in hot water, nor on a radiator where you would get uneven temperature, 
but out of drafts, in a perfectly warm place. Let rise two hours or until 
it doubles its bulk, or breaks down and leaves a hole when you place your 
finger into it. Have your pans greased and warm (not hot) , and divide the 
dough into two equal parts, shaping lightly into loaves, put into the pans and 



BREAD MAKING. 



9 



cover with greased paper, setting in the same careful temperature to rise 
an hour or until it has doubled its bulk and the pan feels light. Now with 
all of this care, bread n^ay be spoiled in baking if you do not understand 
your oven. Have a hot quick baking oven. Put in the bread when ready 
and bake for 15 minutes; it should just begiiTto have a delicate color. Now 
lower the temperature a little so that it is a steady, moderate heat and 
bake it for this sized loaf 45 minutes. Practice is the only sure success to- 
wards good bread making. 

If you desire a stronger flavor to your bread, knead for ten minutes after 
the first raising and let rise again. This takes a little longer time than the 
first process. This will make two loaves of bread. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Hocheater,- N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 4. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice 'Gitehell Kirk. 

Recipe 2. GRAHAM BREAD. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. ^ DIRECTIONS. 

Milk 1 Cup 

MfiJasses „^ £"P, ,, Melt the butter in the scalded 

Yeast' Cak;" :::::;:? g^i«^P°°"^"'^ milk. Cool to lukewarm and add aH 
Water (lukewarm)!*. % Cup the above ingredients, the yeast soft- 
Salt 1 Teaspoonful ened in the water. Beat thoroughly 

Graham Flour 2% Cups and set aside to- become light; then 

White Flour ....... 1% Cups ^^^^ j^^^ ^ 1^^^^ ^^^^^^ p^^^ \^^ ^^^^ 

again light bake about an hour in a 
UTENSILS: moderate oven. Do not let the dough 

Stew Pan Large White Bowl become too light after turning into 

Measuring Gup Breads Pan the bread pans. 

Mrs. Kirk's. Card Index Cooking Recipes. 
Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. h. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Afice GitcKeU Kirk. 



Recipe 3. GRAHAM AND DATE BREAD. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Milk 1 Pint 

?/h[t°e Ffo^ur"".".''!!!! \\ Su^s • , Scald the milk Remove f«,m the 

Graham Flour 3 Cups lire, cool and add the molasses and salt. 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful Pour into the bread mixer, and wheii 

Compressed Yeast .. % Cake lukewarm add the yeast dissolved in the 

Lukewarm Water . . Va. Cup ^^^^ ^^^^^ . ^jf^ j,^ -^j^^ ^j^j^^ ^^,^1 ^j.^. 

- I '" ham flour, and beat well in the mixer. 

UTENSILS: Set in a warm place to rise (about 68° 

Mread Mixer Measuring Cup Fahr.) until it doubles its bulk. 

Spatula Measuring Spoon ; Beat again and place in greased bread 

Baking Pan Knife pans. Let rise, and bake in a moderate 

Bread Sieve ^^^^ p^^ ^^^ j^te bread add the dates 

: cut up in small pieces at the time of 

the second mixing or beating. Part 
English walnuts and part dates may be used for this bread, which is very 
nice for school sandwiches. Bake; one hour in a moderate oven. Remove 
from the pans and set on the bread sieve to cool without covering. This 
recipe will make two loaves. 

All measurements level and flour sifted before measuring. 



10 THE PEOPLE'S HOJVIE RECIPE BOOK. 

Recipe 4. DELICIOUS BROWN BREAD. 

ITatefials. Measure. Weight, DIRECTIONS. 

Rye Meal 1V2 Cups 

Corn Meal 1V2 Cups Mix the meals and flour well to- 
Graham Flour 1 Cup gather ; dissolve the soda in a little 

Salt 4...' 1 Teaspoonful boiling water, then add to the sour 

Soda 1 Teaspoonful milk ; pour in molasses ; when all is 

Best Porto Rico Mo- well mixed add to the meal the salt 

lasses 1 Cup and blend all together thoroughly. 

Sour Milk or Butter- Pour into well-greased Boston "Brown 

milk .....3 Cups Bread molds, quart sizes, put on the 

cover and steam in a steam cooker 

UTENSILS: ^ three hours, uncover and bake twenty 

Two bowls-one Two Bread Molds minutes. If you do not have the steam 

large and one small Measuring Cup cooker, set mto a kettle of -boilmgr 

Teaspoon Wooden Spoon water to steam. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe M£g. Co.,, Kochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 

Recipe 5. CORN BREAD. 

•Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Commeal 1 Cup 

Floir 1 Cup Mix and sift all the ingredients 

Screfm .•.•.■.•;•.•.•; i"^ Cu^ together. Beat the eggs. , add to the 

Eggs 2 " cream and pour gradually into the dry 

Soda :' %r (Teaspoonful mixture; beat all well together, pour 

Salt uTEKrs^LS-'^^^^^°°°^"' '"*° *^^ greased baking pan and bake 

Baking Pan Measuring Cup i". a moderate oven twenty to thirty 

Egg Beater Measuring Spoon minutes. 



Recipe 6. CLOVER LEAF ROLLS. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Milk 2 Cups 

Butter 3 Tablespoonfuls _ ,, . .,,. . ^, ^ , 

Sugar 2 Tablespoonfuls Scald the milk m the stew pan and 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful add the butter, sugar and salt , to the 

Compressed Yeast .. 1 Cake milk. When lukewarm add the yeast 

Flour — j.j^jjg dissolved in one-fourth cup of 

I UTENSILS' lukewarm water and gradually add 

Stew Pan Measuring Cup about three cups of flour. Beat thor- 

Muffin Pan Tablespoon oughly, cover and let rise until light 

Teaspoon and full of bubbles. Cut down and add 

flour to make a stiff dough ; knead and 
". let rise again until it doubles its bulk, 

knead lightly and pinch off three small 
rolls about the size of marbles; dip in melted butter and place them in the 
space for one muffin in a greased mufBn pan.- Repeat until the pans are full. 
Sprinkle lightly with granulated sugar. Cover, let rise and bake from 15 
to 20 minutes in a hot oven. These are very nice for afternoon luncheons, 
inexpensive and very easy to make. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes.' 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 6. Copyright, ' 1909, b!y Mrs. Alice Gitcheli Kirlc 



BREAD MAKING. 



11 



Recipe 7. GLUTEN BREAD. 

TJ t 3*w"!'^- „ Measure. Weight DIRECTIONS. 

Boiled Water a Cups 

Compressed Yeast . % Cake. n >. .1 1. • ^ ^i. 

Salt % Tfeaspoonful P"* the water into the stew pan 

Gluten Flour _.. 3% Cups and bring to the boiling point. Re- 
move from the fire, pour into the 

UTENSILS: bread mixer and cool to lukewarm. 

Bread Mixer Bread Cooler Dissolve the yeast in one-fourth cup of 

Two Baking Pans Measuring Cup t^is water and pour into the mixer, 

Stew Pan Measuring Spoon ^j^^^^ ^j^^ g^^^ ^J^^^^ ^^^^ ^j^^ ^^^^ 

• until the dough is kneaded thoroughly, 

15 or 20 minutes, being very careful 
not to have it too stifif. Set to rise in a warm place (about 75° Fahr.) to 
become light or double its bulk. Knead again for about 10 minutes, form into 
one loaf or two small ones, place in baking pans, cover with greased paper 
to exclude the air and let rise again until the loaves double in size. Bake 
45 to 50 minutes in an oven not quite as hot as for ordinary white bread. 
When done remove to the bread cooler so the air can circulate all around it 
until cold. Keep in a dry place and- not with other bread. 

Gluten Bread may be made entirely of milk, the same proportion as water, 
and the white of one egg beaten lightly adding sufficient flour until it will 
drop, not pour, from the spoon. Put at once into bread pans until light 
and bake as in the above recipe. This bread is invaluable in all' cases of 
diabetes, dyspepsia; obesity and rheumatism. 1 

All measurements level. Flour sifted before measuring. 



Recipe 8. SOUR MILK GINGERBREAD. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Brown Sugar , % Cup 

^ifssS"*" ^''° *??: % Cup Put all the ingredients except the 

Butter .'.'.'.'.'.'..'..... 1 Tablespoonful milk, soda and flour into a stew pan 

Cinnamon % Teaspoonful and stand on the back part of the stove 

Ginger 1 Teaspoonful where it will just slowly warm, and as 

lodi . .'1 . ;:::::;:: J TeLpoonful »^ gradually heats, beat until foaming. 

Flour 2% Cups Be sure and do not let it get hot. Re- 

move from the fire, beat in the sour 
UTENSILS: .milk and the soda dissolved in a table- 

Stew'Pan Wooden Spoon spoonful of boiling water. Gradually 

Measuring Cup Measuring Spoon add the flour, beating well. Grease the 

Tablespoon Shallow Baking Pan shallow pan, pour in the batter and 

Pastry Brush bake in a moderate oven until done. 

A few chopped nuts sprinkled over the 

top as it is put into the oven is a very 
nice addition. Two squares of grated chocolate melted over hot water and 
added to this recipe will make a nice chocolate gingerbread. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Publii hed by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co.. Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 2. Copyright, 1908. by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk 



12 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 9. ENGLISH MUFFINS. 

Materials. . Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS 

Milk 1 Pint 

Yefsf. ::::::::::::;? g^i"^p°°"^"'' scaia the miik and add the butter. 

Salt ..!.!!..!.!!...! 1 Teaspoonful when lukewarm add the compressed 

yeast dissolved in % cup of warm 

UTENSILS: water and salt. Put in sufficient flour 

Stew Pan Tablespoon to make a drop batter, beating very 

Measuring Cup Muffin Rings or Pan well, and let rise for two hourS ; heat 

and grease the dripping pan, also muf- 

fin rings, if you use them, placing the 

latter in the former and half filling 
with the batter. Bake in a moderate oven thirty minutes until a nice brown. 
If you use muffin pans, heat and grease them also. These are extremely tasty, 
and very nice toasted and served very hot. If you do not have muffin rings 
use gem pans. ' 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Vawraan & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N; Y. 

Cupyright, 1906, by Mrs. Afice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 10. POP-OVERS. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. . 

Pastry Flour % Pint 

•sSt'' .:;:::::::::::: S ^laspoonM ,. ^eat the eggs without separating. 

Eggs 3 "i^til well mixed, and light. Add the 

milk to the eggs. Into another bowl 

UTENSILS: put the flour, add the salt and pour into 

1 Pop-over Pan 1 Wooden Spoon it beating all the while milk and flour 

I IZls '"^^ I Measuring Cup ' f^-^dually: together Strain this batter 

through a sieve. Have well heated and 

buttered iron gem or pop-over pans. 

Fill two-J;hirds full with this batter and' 
bake in a moderate oven forty to fifty minutes, or until perfectly light, as 
they will surely fall if not perfectly done. It is very important to heat the 
pop-over pans as the desired lightness must be secured by steady heat from 
the bottom at the very beginning of baking. 

Mrs. Kirk's^ Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 11. CORN-MEAL 

Materials. Measure. 

Sour Milk or Butter- 
milk 1 Cup 

Corn Meal ." i% Cups 

Flour % Cup 

Salt Vn Teaspoonful 

Soda 1 Teaspoonful 

Eggs 2 - 

UTENSILS: 
Steel Griddle Teaspoon 

Cake Turner Tablespoon 

Bowl Egg Beater 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Beat* the eggs well in the bowl 
without separating, adding the milk 
with the soda dissolved in a table^ 
spoonful of boiling water. 

Mix in the remaining ingredients 
and bake on hot steel griddle. 



BREAD MAKING. 13 

Recipe 12. GRAHAM GEMS. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Milk 1 Pint 

Salt 1 Level Teasp'ful Beat the yolks of the eggs and add 

Melted Butter 8 Tablespoonfuls them to the milk, then the butter and 

Graham Flour 3 Cups sifted flour. Beat very hard. Beat the whites 

Eggs .3 to a stiff froth and add these with the 

Baking Powder — 2 Rounding Tea- baking powder to the batter. Mix 
spoonfuls carefully and bake, in gem pans in a 
quick oven thirty minutes. One cup 
-^ of boiled rice and one-half cup of 
UTENSILS: chopped dates may be added to this 
Egg Beater Gem Pans recipe and you will have a very nice 
Measuring Cup Teaspoon change. In~ adding the rice usie one- 
Wooden Spoon Two Bowls half cup less of flour. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 
Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. AHce Gitchell Kirk. / 



Recipe 13. BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Compressed Yeast .. Vi Cake 

llllted Buti;; •::::: i T^^s^CCnful . , dissolve the yeast in one-half cup 

Molasses 1 Tiblespoonful ■ o* lukewarm water, pouring it into the 

Water 8 Quarts pitcher v/ith two quarts of water the 

Buckwheat Flour .. same temperature. Make a smooth 

Baking Soda % Teaspoonful batter, which will run from the spoon, 

B-MCTT c irom the best buckwheat flour, at the 

UTENSILS: sajug ti^g adding the salt. Beat well 

Steel Pancake Measuring Cup and let stand over night. In the morn- 

Griddle Teaspoon ing take out a pint of the mixture and 

Pitcher Tablespoon gg^ ^q o„g side. Now put into the 

Cake lurner pitcher the remaining ingredients. 

Mix lightly all together and bake on a 

hot griddle. 
If there is any left after baking add the pint to it which has been set to 
one side, and the night before using pour in a pint of lukewarm water, add 
the salt and sufficient flour to make the batter as previously directed, and 
proceed as before, except now add one-half teaspoonful of baking soda dis- 
solved in a little boiling "water and stirred in carefully just before baking. 
Always save out some batter the first thing in the morning for the. next 
baking. If some white flour is- desired simply lesson the quantity of buck- 
wheat but these cakes eaten occasionally will cause no trouble. 

Making the batter in this way may be continued for a week if kept in 
a cool place, then if any is left it should be thrown out and start fresh again. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 2. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



14 [THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

CAKES. 

(Including Butter Cakes, Sponge Cakes, Layer Cakes, Loaf Cakes, Fruit 
Cakes, Cookies, Fillings and Icings.) 

" The character of all work depends upon the intelligence of the person who performs it." 

All measurements level unless otherwise stated. Flour sifted before 
measuring. 

There are only two kinds of cakes — ^butter cakes and sponge cakes, and 
they must be considered separately as to the manner in which they are put to- 
gether and in baking. All butter cakes are stirred or beaten; for all sponge 
cakes, a motion called " cut " or " fold in " is used. This refers to the manner 
in which the flour and sugar are put into the cake. One stroke too much in 
sponge or angel cakes only toughens them. 

There are three things very necessary in cake making. 

First — material, which should be the very best butter, freshest eggs, fine 
granulated cane sugar, pastry flour and pure cream of tartar baking powder 

Second — putting the materials properly together. 

Creaming the butter, gradually adding the sugar and then alternating with 
whatever liquid is used and flour. Whites of eggs if used, beaten stiff, and 
then the baking powder. This is only a general principle and all depends upon 
the texture desired in the cakes. 

Third — this is the most difficult task of all, and it is knowing how to man- 
age the oven. 

If I say " a moderate oven," that may mean one thing to me and another 
to you. The same is true of any other temperature and nine-tenths -of the 
failures in cake making come through not understanding the proper relation 
of heat to the cake in the oven. Oven thermometers are coming into common 
use and will no doubt prove very helpful. There is no such thing as luck in 
cake baking. There must be accuracy in measurements with all the other 
qualifications named. Cake baking is a science. Science is exact knowledge. 
Know the very best ways of doing, follow your recipe accurately and with 
some knowledge of the laws of heat in the oven and success is assured. i 

Never remove a cake from the pan until perfectly cold. 

Never use a greased pan. 

Use the best cream of tartar baking powder. 

See that all utensils and materials are ready for use before beginning your 
cake. 

Use as few utensils as possible to insure good work. 

Be neat and orderly in your work and do not scatter flour and spill 
materials. 

A cake made with water instead of milk will be more tender and keep 
moist longer. 

To be a successful cake-maker one should make cake often, at least once 
a week, until you have mastered the general principles involved in'it and then 
good judgment and brains must be mixed with every cake to insure success. 

Cakes without butter require a very moderate oven; in fact, start with 
barely a warm oven until raised to its full height; then increase slightly to 
brown. ' 

Cakes with butter require a moderately hot oven. 

Layer cakes are baked more quickly than loaf cakes. 



CAKES. 



IS 



All molasses cakes and gingerbreads require a moderate oven as they 
burn easily. ' 

Steam fruit cakes, when possible, £ind finish half an hour in a moderate 
oven to brown. 

The " one, two, three, four cake " used by bur grandmothers is really the 
mother of all butter cakes used today, while the sponge cake is the foundation 
from which angel food and sunshine cakes are derived. 

Certain proportions are used as guides in all butter cakes ; there is less 
sugar than flour and less butter than sugar. Where no eggs are used more 
baking powder is necessary. For instance, one teaspoonful of baking powder 
is sufficient for each cup of flour if several eggs are used. Do not use too 
much baking powder as the cake_ is likely to be coarse grained and dry quickly. 

It is not necessary to have so many recipes as it is to obtain changes >n 
flavoring and filling. 

Recipe 1. LAYER CAKE. 

Materials. Ueasure. DIRECTIONS. 

Butter % Cup 

LXwa^rWVter-:: 1^ cT . ^eat the butter to. a cream, add 

PaJtry Flour ... 2% Cups the sugar slowly, beatmg both until 

Eggs , — Whites of 4 creamy. Gradually add the water, then 

Cream of Tartar. . . . 2 Rounding Tea- ^^ flgu^ in the same way. Beat thor- 

Baking Powder .... spoonfuls ^^^^j^. ^j^^^ ^^^ the well-beaten 

UTENSILS: whites of the eggs and the baking pow- 

Two Bowls Teaspoon der, folded in gently but quickly. Put 

Wooden Spoon Spatula at once in ungreased Van Deusen cake 

Egg Beater Cake Pans pans and bake twenty minutes in a 

Measuring Cup quick oven. Invert the pan and let it 

-r^ remain until cool. Remove from the 

pans and put together with any de- 
sired filling. Use the spatula to remove every particle of batter in the 

Mrs. Kirk's Caird Index Cookinst Recipes. 
Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfe. Co., Rochester, N. Y. ., 
Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 2. MAPLE SNOW CAKE, 

Materials. Measure. 

Gran. Sugar 1% Cups 

Butter % Cup 

Pastry Flour ~. 2% Cups 

Lukewarm Water . . 1 Cup 

Eggs 3 ^ 

Baking Powder .... 4 Teaspoonfuls 



DIRECTIONS. 



UTENSILS: 

One Long Cake Pan Mixing,3owl 

Wooden Spoon Measuring Cup 

Spatula Flour Sieve 
Egg Beater 



Put the butter into the mixing 
bowl and with wooden spoon, beat un- 
til creamy, add gradually the sugar, 
then the yolks which have been beaten 
until thick and lemon colored. Meas- 
ure the flour and put into the flour 
sifter, then measure the water and al- 
ternate in adding to the mixture. Beat 
this thoroughly and then cut and fold 
in the well-beaten whites of eggs and 
the baking powder. Bake in an oblong 
pan. 



16 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Filling. 

Cook one pint of maple syrup and one-fourth cup of butter until it forma 
a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Just before the syrup is cooked 
enough add four tablpspoonfuls of water to one-half pound of marshmallows 
and set them over the hot water. When they are melted beat them into 
the syrup mixture and continue until cool and stiff enough to remain on 
the cake. This should be soft and creamy and cut without cracking. Spread 
all over the cake and cover thickly with ireshly grated cocoanut. 

All measurements level unless otherwise stated. 



Recipe 3. MAY CAKES, 

Materials. Ueasure. DIRECTIONS. 

Eggs 2 

Butf/r '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'. % Cup Beat the yolks of the eggs grad- 
Molasses % Cup ually beating in the sugar, butter soft- 
Sour Milk % Cup J J iwt, it- • J- i T^- 

Flour iVs Gups ened and all the other mgredients. Dis- 

Cinnaraon 1 Teaspoonful solve the soda in a tablespoonful of 

Cloves % Teaspoonful u -i- ' ^ jj- a. xl -ir- j 

Nutmeg boihng water, addmg to the milk and 

Raisins % Cup then to the molasses. Fold in the 

Soda 1 Teaspoonful n u ^ i •±. c ^i 

Walnut Meats well-beaten whites of the eggs, raisins 

UTENSILS* ^"^ nuts; bake in small pans or gem 

Dover Egg Beater Bowl pans; cover wiih boiled frosting and 

St^^poon pJo^cSpper ^f "'"^te with ribhons of chocolate 

Measuring Cup ' icing. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfii. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 4. FRUIT DROPS, 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS 

Butter 1 Cup 

Egg^"^ ."!!'!! !!!!."!! 3 "^^ Cream the butter, add the sugar 

Soda 1 Teaspoonful gradually and eggs well beaten, and 

Hot Water 1 Tablespoonful .. j .• i j • ^i , ~, 

Flour sVi Cups t"e soda dissolved m the water. Then 

Cinnamon 1 Teaspoonful mix in half the flour with the cinna- 

English Walnuts „ t^ j • -a. 

(chopped) 1 Cup mon sifted in It. 

SeeTerRaUins':::: ^ cZ ^"^"^ ^^^ ^^^""^^ '^^^PP^^' ^'"^^ 

UTENSILS: and the remaining flour. Drop by tea. 

Ksu^Hnl^Cup SSoT" IP°-^^^' -t 1^-^t one inch apart and 

Wooden Spoon bake in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y„ 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. AUce GitcheU Kirk, 



CAKES. 



17 



Recipe 9. ^ TEA CAKES. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS, 

Butter,.,, % Cup 

Lukewarm WaVeror "^ Beat the butter to a cream. Add 

_Milk % Cup gradually the sugar, then the milk or 

Flour 2 Cups ^ J ^t. D u ^- II 

£gga a water, and the flour, now beatmg well. 

Nutmeg , — % Teaspoonful Add the eggs well beaten, nutmeg and 

Bakmg Powder .8 Teaspoonfuls taking powder. Bake in heart-shaped 

Two Bowls- Wooden Spoon P^"^ .*°^ i<=e with pink icing. Or, 

Teaspoon Measuring Cup bake in gem pans and serve plain. 

Mrs, Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright. 1806. by Mrs. Alice Gttchell Kirkc 



Recipe 6. 

Materials. 



WHITE 

Measure. 



Butter .............. % Cup 

Pastry Flour „ 2 Cups 

Gran. Sugar iVi Cups 

Whites of Eggs .... 6 
Grated rind and 

Juice of Lemon .. V2 Lemon 
Soda ^....... Vi Teaspoonful 



UTENSILS: 



Mixing Bowl 
Wooden Spoon 
Egg Beater 



Cake Fan 
Flour Sifter 



LOAF CAKE. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Beat the butter to a cream, then 
gradually beat in the flotxr sifted two 
or three times with the soda. Beat 
the whites of eggs dry and gradually 
beat in the s-ugar. Now beat this a 
little at a time into the butter and 
flour mixture and at the last the lemon. 

Line the bottom of the cake pan 
with buttered paper, grease the re- 
mainder of the pan, pour in the batter 
and bake in a steady but not too hot 
oven in the beginning, for about 45 
minutes or until done. 



Recipe 7. • AFTERNOON 

Materials. Measure 

Whites of Eggs...... 2 

Sugar 1 Cup 

Water % Cup 

Vanilla V2 Teaspoonful 

Chopped Nut Meats 1 Cup 
Unsalted Wafers .. 
Raspberry Jam 

UTENSILS: 

Stew Pan Spatula 

Flat Egg Beater Dripping Pas 



MARGUERITES. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Spread the wafers thickly with 
raspberry jam. Make a boiled icing of 
the eggs, sugar and water. Flavor 
and add nuts. _ Spread thickly over the 
jam and bake in a very moderate oven 
until a delicate brown. 



Boiled Icing. 

■ Into the stew pan put the sugar 

and water, place over the fire and stir 
wntil dissolved. Boil it until it will spin a thread between the thumb and 
forefinger. Have ready the well-beaten whites of the eggs and pour this hot 
syrup slowly over them, beating all the while and so continue until cold. 
Add the vanilla, beat well again and it is ready for use. The following fill* 
ings may also be used for a change for Marguerites: 



18 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Fig Filling. ■ 
Boil one cup of chopped figs and one tablespoonful -each of water and 
sugar until a paste. Spread between layer with cream filling on top. Add 
the other layer and cover with plain cream filling. 

Nut Filling. 
Chop one cup of pecans or English walnuts and add to half of the cream 
filling and between layers and the remaining filling on top. Decorate with 
halves of the nut rtieats. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cookingf Recipes. 

Publislied by Vawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Afice Gitchell Kirk. 

Recipe 8. LEMON COOKIES. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Butter 1 Cup Squeeze the lemon juice into a cup, 

Susar 1% Cups ^^^j p^ j„ sufficient water to make the 

^^*" Sofifemon C"P half fulL Cream the Jjutter and 

Eggs 2 sugar, add the beaten eggs, mix well. 

Baking Powder 3 Teaspoonfuls add the water and other ingredients. 

Rind of Lempn (grated) ^ Mix with flour as soft as can be rolled, 

UTENSILS: sprinkle with sugar, cut and bake in a 

Measuring Cup Wooden Spoon gujck ^^^^^ ^ raisin, nut or cherry 

Lemon Squeezer Moulding Board Z. u i-^-t-i e (. 

Mixing Bowl Rolling Pin may _ be put m the center of eacb 

Egg Beater Spatula cookie. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawraan & Erbe Mfai. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. AUce Gitchell Kirk. 

Recipe 9. FRUIT CAKE. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Butter 1% lbs. Beat the butter until very creamy, 

|"e*/ j3 ^^ '''^- then slowly add the sugar, beating all 

CufranVs' ..".!!!.'!!! ! l^lbs. the time. Whip the whites until very 

Raisins iVz lbs. stiff and mix with the sugar and butter. 

Shelled Almonds . . % lb. Beat the yolks for ten minutes as they 

Candfed Lemon and ^' '"'• J?"^* i^e very light and creamy Add 

Orange Peel, each % lb. them to the mixture then gradually sift 

Powdeced'Mac'e % Saltsp'ful in the flour, beating well all the time. 

Nutmeg., ^Saltsp'ful and as much as possible while adding 

pfour IV lbs ^" ^^^ remaining ingredients ; the cur- 

Candied CherrieV !'. .' I^lb! '■^"ts cleaned by washing and rubbing 

TTTTTMCTTQ. "^^ ^" ^ *°^^^ *° ^^^ °"t all the little 

^r- • J ,1, o-r. stems; buy the seeded raisins, put 

kg^Be^ftr^ ^°"' Fo°od Chopper through the food chopper, also the al- 

Wooden Spoon Measuring Cup monds, citron, lemon and orange peel. 

Pastry Brush Cake Pans Slice the candied cherries, and lastly 

add any kind of fruit juice, raspberry 

being especially nice. Line three long, 
narrow cake pans with paper, butter well and divide the cake mixture, baking 
in a very slow oven three hours, or cover and steam for two hours and bake 
one and one-half hourS; the latter makeS a much more moist cake. This 
cake will keep indefinitely. This recipe will make 814 lbs. of fruit cake. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by. Yawman &' Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 2. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk 



CAKESo 



19 



Recipe 10. LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 

Materials. Measure. Weight DIRECTIONS. 

Sugar 2 Cups 

Butter* :::::;■■::*■■ ^% Cup' ^""^^"^ *^^ ^""^'' . ^"^ gradually 

Rich Milk! '.!!*. !!"..* % Cup ^^dd half the sugar, beating the remain- 
Eggs ~ 5 - ing sugar into the yolks of the eggs. 

Cream of Tartar.... 2 Teaspoonfuls Sift the cream of tartar and soda twice 
Fimng'!.".*;;;.';;;;;. ^ Teaspoonful through the flour and gradually add 

Raisins'!!!!!!!!!!!! i Cup this, alternating with the milk. Cut 

Citron ..„ 1 Piece and fold in the whites of the eggs 

Small Cocoanut.... 1 beaten stiff. Divide this mixture and 

&*? fcingT.'lf ?! ! flavor half with rose and into the other 

half is stirred one teaspoonful of va- 
UTENSILS: nilla, lemon or almond. Bake in four 

Measuring Cup Egg Beater layers, two of white and two of spice. 

Measuring Spoon Flour Sifter Make the boiled icing by Recipe No. 

Mixing Bowl Fwr Layer Cake y cake, and beat into it all the filling 

Wooden Spoon Pans ingredients, raisins seeded and cut fine, 

" citron shaved thin, and the almonds 

left to put on top of cake. Blanch the 
almonds by letting them stand in cold water several hours. Remove the 
skins and put into an oven to dry. When the cakes are cool, spread the mix- 
ture thickly between them and finish the top one, which should be white, 
with powdered sugar sprinkled over it and the almonds stuck in end-wise. 
This is a genuine southern recipe but is not so considered if the top is frosted 
as is sometimes done. 

ItltSi Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Publiabed bf Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, K. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 4. Copyright, 190^ by Mrs. Alice Gitcbell Kiik. 



Recipe IL LEMON SPONGE CAKE. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS^ 

Eggs 8 

Ji^^MVndrindof one ^ * "^' Beat the whites of the eggs until 

Lemon perfectly dry. Beat the yolks very 

Hour iVi Cups light and' gradually beat in the sugaf 

and the grated rind and juice of the 

ITTENSILS: lemon, cut and fold in half of the 

Measuring Cup Lemon Squeezer whites, then half of the flour, and the 

Flat Wire Beater Flatter ■ '. ... , a t> t • 

Qmtcr Bowl remaining whites and flour. Bake in 

Cake Pan a Turk's Head pan fifty minutes. 

Cover with boiled frosting. Vary this 
■ ■ . . . cake by baking in an open mold and 

filling the center with sliced peaches, 
pears or any desired fruits. Serve as a dessert with whipped cream piled 
high in the center of the peaches, and garnished with slices of peaches. 
Pass whipped cream with this dessert. This is very nice served at luncheon. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe? Mfg. Co., Rochester. N. Y. 

Copyright. 1906, by Mrs. ATice QitcheU Kirk. 



20 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 12. GOLDEN LOAF SUGAR. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Egg Yolks 8 

Gran. Sugar 1% Cups 

Butter % Qup Cream the butter; gradually add 

.MUk*!^. !!!..".!.!!!!! % Cup t^^ sugar; beat the yolks until light; 

"Pastry Flour iVs Cups add the cream of tartar and beat very 

Cream of Tartar ... 1 Teaspoonful ,• , ^ * jj ^i • ^ ^i. t. ^^ • ^ 

Soda % Teaspoonful light. Add, this to the butter mixture 

Vanilla 1 Teaspoonful and stir thoroughly. Now alternatf 

Mixing Bowl Slotted Wooden with the milk, flour, water, and flavor- 
Measuring Cup Spoop ing at the last. Bake in a moderate 
Cake Pan Measuring Spoon ° . „a ^ r« • x 

Egg Beater oven from 30 to 50 minutes. 



Recipe 13. EASY ANGEL CAKE. 

Materials. > Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Whites of Eggs 1 Cup 

Fl""; ^""^^ i'''^ Cup Measure the flour and sift several 

Cream' of' TaVtai:".'.". 1 Teaspoonful times on a piece of paper; then in the 

Flavoring _. .. 1 Teaspoonful same way the sugar. Break the whites 

of eggs into a cup and when full empty 

UTENSILS: into a platter, beat until foamy, add 

Loaf Cake Pan Measuring Cup cream of tartar and beat until stiflF ; 

Measuring Spoon Flour Sifter gradually cut and fold in the sugar and 

Flat Wire Beater Large Platter |^^^ ^t this point be sure you do 

not beat nor stir but with your flat 

beater cut and fold as directed. When 
*he flour is nearly in add the flavoring. Pour into a new cake pan or one 
that has never been greased and bake in a very moderate oven from 35 to 
30 minutes. 



Recipe 14. CREAM FILLING OR BOILED ICING. 

Materials. Measure.' DIRECTIONS. 

Sugar 1 Cup 

Water Vs Cup Put the sugar and water on the 

Whites of Eggs .... 2 stove, Stir until the sugar is dissolved. 

Lemon Juice 1 Teaspoonful Boil until it will spin a thread. Have 

ready the well-beaten whites of the 

TTTiTMQTT c. ^SS^ ^'^^ P°"'" ^^Js hot syrup slowly 

uii!-iMbii.5». Q^g^ ^jjg^^ beating all the while, and 

Saucepan Tablespoon so continue until cold. Add the .lemon 

Measuring Cup Egg Beater and flavoring ; beat well again. Put 

Teaspoon between and on top of layers. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y, 

Copyright. 1906, by Mra. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



CAKES. 



21 



Recipe 15. 



SUNSHINE CAKE. 



Measure. 



Materials. 

Whites of Eggs .... 7 

Yolks of Eggs 5 

Gran. Sugar 1% Cups 

Cream of Tartar ... % Teaspoonful 



UTENSILS: 



Two Bowls 
Measuring Cup 
Baking Fan 



Egg Beater 
Measuring Spoon 



DIRECTIONS. 



Have all the material ready. Meas- 
ure and sift the flour several times. 
Do the same with the sugar. Separate 
the eggs putting whites into one b&wl 
and yolks into another; beat yolks 
light and stiff, beat whites until foamy. 
Add cream of tartar and beat very stiff. 
Cut and fold in the sugar and add the 
yolks and flavoring; now fold in the 
flour and pour into an angel cake pan 
and bake in a moderate oven 45 to 50 
minutes. 



Recipe 16. MOCHA FILLING. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Butter 1 Tablespoonful 

Black Coffee 2 Tablespoonfuls Prepare the coffee as usual, ex- 

Powdered Sugar ... 1% Cups cept allow double the amount always 

Chopped Nuts % Cup for black coffee. Cool. Beat the butter 

Yolks of Eggs ..... 2 to a cream, add the yolks and beat 

well, then the coffee and gradually the 

sugar, beating well all the while. Mix 

UTENSILS: in the nuts, which are chopped medium 

Tablespoon fine. Now (Recipe 1, Cake). Or the 

Food Chopper nuts may be put into the layer cakes 

Bowl instead of the filling. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 3. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kuk. 



Measuring Cup 
Small Wire Egg 
Beater 



Recipe 17. MARSHMALLOW FILLING. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Marshmallows 1 «>• p^^ jj^,f ^^^ marshmallows into a 

Water V* L-up double boiler with the water over the 

Whitesof Eggs .... 2 fire until melted. Beat the whites of 

y*"'"* : • : J S^!^^^SS the eggs until very stiff and gradually 

Lemon Ju,ce 1 Teaspoonful ^^^^ ss ^^ ^^^ marshmallows (melted) . 

Flavor and put between the cake. The 

remaining half of marshmallows may 

UTENSILS; Ijg py^ Jjj^q ^jjg oven until they swell 

Double Boiler Teaspoon but do not brown". Put them on top 

Egg Beater Measuring Cui5 of the cake and pour boiled .filling over 

Bow! Lemon Squeezer them. 



g2 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

Recipe 18. CREAM MAPLE FILLING. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Maple Syrup 2 Cups 3 ... 

Cream 3 Tablespoonfuls Cook th^ maple syrup until it is al-. 

Vanilla 6 Drops most ready to "thread," then add the 

cream and bring to the boiling point. 

UTENSILS: Beat very thoroughly until it begins 

Saucepan Food Chopper or to grow thick ; add minced walnuts or 

Measuring Cup Chopping Bowl hickory nut meats. This should be 

Tablespoon and Knife thin enough to run over the cake. 

Recipe 19. CHOCOLATE ICING. 

MateHals. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Baker's Chocolate.. 2 Squares 

Milk '. . V2 Cup Put chocolate and milk in a double 

Bitter 1 Teaspoonful y^^jj^j. ^^en hot add butter ; take f rpm 

XXX Sugar' .' :::::;. T^^^P°°"^"' the &« and when perfectly cold add 

UTENSILS: sufficient sugar for spreading; add 

Double Boiler Teaspoon vanilla. ' 

Measuring Cup Spatula or Knife 

MEATS. 

(Including Roasts, Steaks, Chops, Irish Stews, Poultry and Dressings.) 



" Enough is as good as a feast." 
" Most of the want and much of the misery in this world may trace its begin- 
ning to lack of early training in the fundamentals of self development, character 
building and thrift, using the world in its best sense." — Good Housekeeping, 

(All Measurements Level.) 

The people of this nation live under intense excitement and energy, and 
with this great mental activity which really seems necessary in this age, 
meats, at least in small quantities, should be used for quick results. We are 
living, however, in a vegetable period and not a meat period, or more correctly 
speaking, we are just coming into it. 

Where one demands meat and another vegetables much depends largely 
upon the life they live. In a vegetable diet of the right sort followed with less 
rapid living there is nothing better. 

Pork should never be used by anyone who desires the best of food, but 
there can be no laws laid down as to what one should or should not eat. Think 
for yourself, investigate and study the best authorities on the subject. 

Find out the foods with the combinations best suited to your particular 
needs and manner of living and then live as near to this standard as possible. 

In the ordinary family the greater part of the muscle building and re- 
pairing of waste tissues is probably furnished by meat. If all the women 
knew how to biiy and cook the cheaper cuts of meat it would help to keep 
down the prices of the more expensive cuts, besides, giving the family a larger 
percentage of nutrition. Most cooking of meat has been too rapid. " Get a 
meal quickly " has been the housewife's cry. Yes, and empty your purse 
quickly at the same time, has been the result. 

While it is true the better the piece of meat the better the result, as a 
general thing it is possible and desirable in the average family to save expense 



MEATS. 23 

■where it niaybe done without serious loss. Wise buying and careful cooking 
applies particularly to meats. Good meat may be spoiled by poor cooking and, 
on the other hand, an inferior piece of meat can be made exceedingly palat- 
able by knowing just how to cook it. All sbrts of good appetizing dishes may 
be prepared from the so-calied cheaper cuts of meats. Never drop meat from 
your bill of fare unless you can supply the proper elements to nourish and 
sustain the body through other foods. 

The housekeeper who does her own marketing should know; how to buy 
not only the cheaper cuts of meats but the better ones as well. This practical 
knowledge of marketing on the part of the housekeeper afifects to a marked 
degree both the comfort and the expense book of the family. Intelligence and 
skill in buying are only secured by careful practice and the purchaser must 
not be afraid to ask questions or show her ignorance when necessary. Most 
men in the markets will be found courteous and helpful if you will only let 
your wants be known. If your meals are planned ahead, and they should be, 
more than a single day's orders may be purchased ahead. This saves time 
and energy as the meat is the basis upon which the remainder of the meal is 
planned. 

Recipe 1. ROAST BEEF. 

To roast a piece of beef perfectly is no small art and yet so little has to 
be remembered to do it well. 

The oven should be very hot. 

Wipe the meat with a wet or damp cloth ; place it in the baking pan, add- 
ing one teaspoonful of salt (not over the meat) and enough boiling water to 
keep the pan from burning. Sear well over the top. When this is done, lower 
the fire to a hot oven, dust the meat with pepper and baste often until done. 
This will require about twenty minutes to the pound, or longer if it is liked 
better done, although the best juices and sweetness of the meat are lost by 
over-cooking. 

Two things must be kept cleirly in mind and these are: — first, have the 
oven hot; second, when the meat should he basted, baste and let nothing in- 
terfere. 

Another way is to have a covered roaster. Then the meat is put in dry 
and it is seif-basting, which does away with much extra work. 

Again, a roast -may be placed in the baking attachment of the Fireless 
Cooker and with the soap stones heated and all covered closely with the hood, 
the roasting will be perfectly done without heat in the kitchen and the house- 
wife free to do as she chooses. 



Recipe 2. ROAST BEEF. 

Materials. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Roast of Beef 5 or 6 lbs. 

Salt Under all circumstances, whether 

Pepper — '..'. you burn coal, wood or gas, heat the 

UTENSILS- oven to a very hot temperature before 

_ uiB-wai s>. putting in the roast. Select a good 

Covered Baking Pan Basting Spoon ^ib roast— two ribs make a very nice 

Long Handled Pork foast— of five or six pounds. This 

- may be boned and rolled, the bones 

sent home with the meat to be used 



24 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

for soups or gravies. If boned, it is rolled with a piece of suet and tied ; this 
is a much better way than using skewers as they are in the way when carv- 
ing and difficult to remove. There are two terms, " roasting " and " baking." 
The former is placing on the broiler oyer the pan, searing first one side and 
then the other and proceed as yoii would for sttak, Veducing the tempera- 
ture and lowering the flame to finish, basting with the fat and allowing 
fifteen or twenty minutes to the pounds 

For baking proceed just the same except place in a covered baking pan 
with sufficient hot water to keep from burning the pan and sear for fifteen 
minutes, then reduce the heat, add the salt to the pan, dredge the 
meat with a little pepper and finish as for roasting. Jiemember that slow 
cooking will add greatly to the flavor of pork but will destroy entirely th(». 
flavor of beef. If dry and tasteless it has been poorly cooked. 



Recipe 3, POT ROAST. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Beef 2V2 lbs. 

^^^^^ ^ ^l''- Choose a thick cut of beef from 

Boiling Water !!.! ! 1 Pint ^^^ shoulder and wipe with a damp 

Salt cloth. Have the kettle hot and put in 

Pepper the suet and rend the fat. Remove the 

UTENSILS" scraps, add the onion sliced, and cook 

until a light brown. Remove these 

M^"tV rk Measuring Cup from the kettle and put in the meat; 

^^ °^ sear on one side, and then on the other. 

Turn once more and put the onions 

on the meat and add the boiling water. 
Cover and simmer slbwly one hour; season, with salt and pepper and con- 
tinue to cook until done, an hour and a half or two hours. The secret of a 
pot roast is more in the cooking than in the meat, being sure not to let it 
boil at any time. Have sufficient liquid in the kettle for gravy which may be 
thickened with a tablespoonful of flour after the meat is removed to a 
platter. Pour the gravy over the whole and sprinkle with finely chopped 
parsley. 

Potatoes may be cooked with this and half a pound of well-washed prunes 
may be added for flavor and served with the roast, or removed and pickled' 
to be used as a relish. 



Recipe 4. IRISH STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

Put three ounces of suet into a kettle. When the fat is rendered, out of it, 
remove the cracklings and slice one onion in the fat and cook until a nice 
brown. Have two pounds of lean meat from the round cut into two inch 
squares, to this meat add two tablespooniuls of flour. Rub well together then 
throw into the hot fat and shake over a hot fire until nicely browned. Add 
one pint of stock or 'water; stir until boiling. Slice one carrot, add one bay 
leaf, 1 teaspoonful of kitchen Ipouquet, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and pepper to 
taste. Ceok slowly for one hotlr and a half. Ten minutes before the meat is 
done add dumplings made as follows : 



MEATS. 85 

Dumplings. 

1 pint of flour, 

1 rounding teaspoohful of baking powder, 

Yz teaspoonful of salt, 

1 cup of milk. 

Sift dry ingredients well together and add more or less milk so that batter 
will drop from the spoon. Drop by teaspoonful over the meat, cover^and 
keep covered — for ten minutes. Serve on a platter with meat in the center 
surrounded by the dumplings and the whole garnished with parsley. 



Recipe 5. STEAK AND VEGETABLES EN CASSEROLE. 

-Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Round Steak 2 lbs. 

Turnip 1 Peel the onions and cut the vegc- 

Carrot 1 tables into fancy shapes or cubes. Put 

Potato 1 a thick layer of these into the bottom 

Flour 2 Tablespoonluls of the casserole dish. Put the spider 

Silver-Skinned over the fire. When very hot throw 

Onions % Pint jn the steak, cut in inch squares, and 

Celery Seed % Teaspoonful -sear over very quickly, shaking the 

Chopped Parsley ... 2 Tablespoonfuls flour over the meat while searing. Put 

Kitchen Bouquet ... 1 Teaspoonful the meat over the vegetables and the 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful remaining vegetables and seasoning 

Boiling Stock or ^ over the top. Pour the boiling water 

Water 1% Pints or Stock into the spider, stirring well 

Pepper from the bottom. Add kitchen bou- 

UTENSILS* quet and a little more flour if desired 

Casserole Dish Paring Knife to make a very thin brown sauce-pour 

Steel Spider Measuring Cup this over the whole ; cover and bake in 

Tablespoon Vegetable Cutter a very moderate oven one and one-half 

^ hours. Always serve in the dish in 

which it is cooked. 



Recipe 6. TO BROIL STEAKS 

Materials. Measure. Weight. 

Porterhouse, Sirloin 
or Club Steak at 
least one and one- 
half inches thick.. 

Butter 

Pepper 

Salt 

UTENSILS: 
Broiling Pan or Fork 
Oven Hot Platter 



inches from the burner, turn them 



OR CHOPS WITH GAS. 
DIRECTIONS. 

Light the oven at least five min- 
utes before putting in the steak. See 
that the broiling pan and rack are in 
order. Put the steak on the broiler 
when perfectly hot and put as near the 
gas flame as possible without touch- 
ing.. As soon as the'v steak is seared 
all over draw out the pan, take a fork, 
stick it as near the edge as possible, 
turn and sear the other side. Turn 
once more, lower the pan about six 
down about half, and broil slowly five 



36 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

minutes on each side. Have the serving platter thoroughly heated and a 
tablespoonful of butter melted to which you have added salt and pepper. 
Lift the steak carefully to the platter and baste with the butter and season- 
ing. Garnish with thin slices of lemon, parsley, tomatoes or watercress. A 
steak two inches thick requires twenty minutes for broiling; one and a half 
inches, fifteen minutes; and one inch, ten minutes. 

Club or Delmonico steaks are nice for small families. 

Mrs, Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Sochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1006, by Mrs. ATice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 7. PAN BROILED STEAK. 

Materials. pleasure. Weight DIRECTIONS. 

Porterhouse, Sirloin 

or Club Steaks... Place over the fire a steel spider 

English Mutton .... ji. tx^- r^i. 

Boston Chops, Loin and when very hot put in any of the 

or French Lamb above meats which have been prepared 

Chops as for recipe for broiling by gas, and 

UTENSILS* *"™ them as soon as seared. Sear and 

g J s id r Fork ' *""^ again and so continue for five 

Hot PI ^tt r minutes. Then lower the flame under 

the pan and broil slowly for five min- 

utes more. This is for steak two inches 

thick. Be very careful that there is 
no frying. Turn all meats more often than when broiled under gas or it will 
be fried rather than broiled. Finish the same as the preceding recipe. The 
English Mutton and Boston Chops will re-quire fifteen minutes, and the ordi- 
nary American chop ten minutes. In pan broiling be very careful they do 
not fry, as mutton is fatter than beef. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes, 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

' Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 8. LOIN OF VEAL. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Loin of Veal 

Salt 1% Teaspoonfuls Use care in selecting veal that Is 

White Pepper not too young and " green." The flesh 

UTENSILS" should be firm, rather pink, and good 

„,. „ •«, " t ^ sized tones. Wipe the above loin with 

Baking Pan Measuring Cup ^ damp cloth and place it in the bak- 

Basting Spoon jn^ ^^^. sprinkle with the pepper and 

, put the salt in one corner of the pan 

with half a cup of boiling water. 
Place in a very hot oven for about 15 minutes when it "will be well seared. 
Reduce the temperature to moderate heat and bake slowly, basting often. 
The time required will be &0 minutes for each pound of veal. Any method 
of cooking requiring long slow cooking, such as stews, fricassees, casserole, 
fireless cooking, etc., is especially desirable for veal. If you use a covered 



MEATS. 27 

baking pan the basting is not necessary. The only object of the water is 
to keep the pan from burning and smoking until sufficient fat is obtained for 
basting. 

■^ ... . K."- Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 
Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 
Supplemental Set No. 4. Copyright. 1808, by Mrs. Alice GitcheU Kirk, 



Recipe 9. HAM BAKED IN CIDER. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Small Ham 1 

Pepper H ?S°S£I „^?,l\*t^ ^^"\ thoroughly, rub 

Cinnamon % Teaspoonful well with baking soda and scrub with 

Celery Seed % Teaspoonful the vegetable brush. Rinse in cold 

Chopped Onions ... 2 Teaspoonlwls water, trim neatly, and «put into the 

^''""* ^'^^' ^ ^^"""^ baking pan skin side down, Mix in 

UTENSILS: ^ '^^P. ^^^ *he seasonings and rub these 

- . „ .- ,, "' , n ~ I. wslJ i"to the meat and sprinkle thickly 

irni S^ SStol/"' r^!f ^ ^^?PP?d onion. Make a shee^ 

by adding slowly one-fialf cup of water 

— to one cup of flour; roll out in a sheet 

and cover the entire flesh of the ham, 
tucking down close to the skin. Fill the pan two-thirds full of hot sweet cider. 
Stand it in the oven and bake four hours in a moderate oven, basting often. 
When done remove paste and skin, trim the meat from the end bone, and 
decorate with a quill of paper. Place on a hot platter fat side down, garnish 
with parsley and pickled beets cut in fancy shapes. This is very nice served 
with cider sauce. Many like the addition of a bottle of wine or champagne 
instead of cider. Serve with sweet potatoes, tomatoes, spinach, cold-slaw 
and apple sauce. Twenty-five minuties is the usual time to allow to a pound. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Com Rochester, N. Y. 

Cppyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitdiell Kirk. 



Recipe 10. CROWN ROAST OF LAMB. 

Materials. Measure. Weight, DIRECTIONS. 

Double Rack of 

S^\t"^^. .::::::::::: 1% Teaspoon^ ^ Select two racks or Tibs of lamb 

White Pepper 5 ^"^ your butcher will turn and fasten 

Mashed Potatoes ... 3 Pints them together, on each side, with the 

bones about two inches long standing 

UTENSILS: ^ upright Set this crown roast into 

Baking Pan Measuring Cuji the baking pan and sprinkle with the 

Dastmg Spoon Measuring Spoon pepper; put the salt into the pan with 

_;;^ half a cup of boiling water. Cover the 

bones with oiled paper or pieces, of fat 
pork and put into a very hot oven for 15 minutes. Lower the temperature 
so the roast does not burn and bake in all 45 minutes, basting often. Serve 
on a platter with the center filled with mashed or riced potatoes and sprinkle 
with finely chopped parsley on the top. Paper frills should be put on the 



28 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

ends of the boneSc This Is also very nice stuffed with sausage when put 
into the oven. Then the potatoes are served in a separate dish. 

Loin or ribs of pork may be used in the same manner, garnished with 
fried apples. 

Mrs. Kirk'8 Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Pubfished by Vawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 4. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirfc 



Recipe 11. CHICKEN FRICASSEE, 

Materials. Measure. Weight DIRECTIONS. 

Chicken . ,4 lbs. i 

Butter 3 Tablespoonfuls Sgiect a chicken which is tender; 

wX" ::::::::•:::;• i ?f„\'"P°°"^"'' singe and disjoint. Put into a colandei 
Grated Onion ."..'!'. ! 1 TablespoonM or frying basket and let the water run 

Salt quickly over it. Wipe each piece dry. 

^^PP"' • • • • Put the butter into the spider and over 

^^^^^1 not too hot a fire; dip the pieces in 

UTENSILS: flour. Put into the spider to brown on 

Steel Spider Stew Pan both sides. Remove the chicken and 

Tablespoon Measuring Cup add the flour ; stiT well. Add the water 

and seasonings. When boiling add the 

chicken. Cover and simmer gently 

for at least one hour or until tender. 
This must be cooked slowly or you will have a tough and tasteless chicken. 
When ready to serve, arrange the chicken on a platter and strainthe gravj 
over it. Garnish with triangles of toasted bread and parsley; 



Recipe 12. ROAST TURKEY WITH DRESSING. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS 

Turkey ; 10 lbs. 

Butter ............. Select a plump turkey having 

Salt ..!!'..!!!!!.!.! smooth, dark legs and the cartilage at 

Pepper the end of the breastbone should be 

UTENSILS' " '"^^.^^'" ^°^t ^^'^ pliable. Remove the 

_ J „ ... T TTMi j o „ hairs by holding the bird over an alco- 
Covered Roasting Long H died Spoon ,j^^j ^^^^ ^^ ^^.^^ ^ .^^^ ^^ 

T M . IT t n-f 1 1 tightly and light- itf holding turkey 

Large Meat Fork Oiled Paper J^^ ^j^ ^^^ changing the position of- 

_ ten until every part is singed. Cut 

off the head and with a pointed knife 
remove the pin feathers. 

For most housekeepers it is better to have the turkey drawn (that is 
the intestines removed and tendons pulled out) by the butcher. Now all 
that remains to be done is to wring a cloth from cold water and wipe the 
bird both inside and out, or by holding it under the cold water faucet and 
letting the cold water run through ; but do not let the fowl soak in cold water. 
Wipe dry. Truss by drawing the thighs close to the body and hold by 



MEATS. . 39 

inserting a steel skewer from one middle joint through the body to the other. 
Cross the ends of the legs and tie securely with a string, covering quite well up 
with several thidcnesses of piled paper. Bend the wings so they fit closely to 
the body and then fasten both firmly with another skewer. Draw the neck 
skin well to the back and fasten in like manner. Brush well with melted 
butter and place in the roaster, breast down, laying strips of bacon 
over the back of turkey and dust well with flour. Cover the pan and place 
in a VERY hot oven for fifteen minutes. Gradually reduce the temperature 
until a moderate oven and then finish in a slow oven which will take about three 
hours. Add salt and pepper when half done and turn on its back. If you do 
not use a covered roaster put in sufficient water to keep pan from burning, 
then the turkey must be basted every fifteen minutes, watching carefully 
that it does not brown too fast; if it does, cover with several thicknesses of 
oiled or buttered paper.. 

Remove the string and skewers before serving. Garnish with parsley 
or celery tips. 

The true flavor of th^ turkey is preserved when it is not stuffed with 
a dressing. 

If it is desired, use three cups of grated white bread crumbs,, one tea- 
spoonful of grated onion,^ One-half cup of melted butter, one-half of finely 
chopped green pepper (sweet), one cup of chopped celery and one pint of 
well-washed and drained oysters and salt to taste. Mix togeither in the 
order given. If desired, a beaten egg or two may be added to this stuffing. 

Mrs, Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe "Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 2. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 13. ROAST DUCK AND GOOSE. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Domestic or Wild 

St?ffiS.°-.^°--"- ^'"^^ *^^ ^"'^'^^ ^"^ remove the 

Salt ............... pin feathers, wash and scrub in hot 

Pepper water (if a ^oose use hot soap suds) 

TTTFNSTT-S- *'^^" draw as directed in the preceding 

„ , . „ ^ ' Tj ji J recipe for turkey. Wash in cold water 

Baking Pan Long Handled ^ j^^j^j^^ ^^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^. ^ 

Large Meat Fork Spoon and truss. Pllce the ducks in the bak- 

. ing pan, preferably one with a rack in 

the bottom, and cover the breast with 
very thin slices of bacon or salt pork. Bake in a very hot oven fifteen min- 
utes to every pound if wild ducks and little more than twice the time if do- 
mestic. Add half a cup of boiling water for each duck and baste every ten 
minutes. Serve onions and brussel sprouts or browned sweet potatoes, apple 
and celery salad or lettuce and orange salad. 

Roast Goose, 
Prepare same as for duck and rub the inside with salt and an onion cut 
in halves. Fill with prune stuffing and steam for two hours' and bake one 
hour, basting every ten minutes. 



30 TllE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

Prune Dressing. 

Cook one-half a pound of prunes by soaking over night and cooking 
slowly in a double boiler. Pare, "quarter and core three large tart iapples 
and add to the prunes which have been stoned and cut into pieces. Cook 
one-half cup of rice until tender, as in Recipe 1, under Vegetables. Shell 
and blanch a dozen chestnuts ; boil until tender and cut in pieces ; idd to the 
above mixture with one-half cup of butter, one-half teaspoonful of paprika 
and a good pindi of cinnamon. Mix all well together and it is ready for use, 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 2. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES 

and 
Substantial Meals Without Meat. 



(Including Menus Without Meat, Sandwiches and School Luncheons.) 

And God said : " Behold, I have given you every green herb bearing seed which is 
upon the face of all the earth, and every tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat." 

FOODS. 
Two General Classes. 

First — Nitrogenous or flesh forming foods and necessary to repair the 
daily waste of tissue. 

Second — Carbonaceous or heat producing foods and are the soiirce of 
our strength and energy. 

Flesh-formers — Meat, eggs, fish, milk, cheese, nuts, peas, oatmeal, rye, 
wheat, corn. 

A perfect diet consists of a correct combination of common food ma- 
terials, blended to suit the age, occupation, sex, and climate in which the 
individual lives. 

SUBSTITUTES FOR MEAT. 

Some vegetables are perfect substitutes for meats. 

All the grains, such as whole wheat, rice, barley, oats, corn and nuts, 
also cheese, peas, beans, lintels, macaroni, raisins, figs and bananas are meat 
substitutes. 

Other vegetables are important articles of diet, but they should not be 
made the basis of your dietary. 

" NO MEAT " MENUS. 

Breakfast — Eggs on toasted white bread, sliced tomatoes, brown bread 
and butter, coffee. 

Luncheon — Hot chocolate, bread and butter, lettuce salad. 

Dinner— Spinach soup, macaroni and cheese, cucumber salad, floating 
island, coffee. 



MEAT: SUBSTITUTES. 31 

Breakfast — Blueberries and crdam, steamed eggs, toast, coffee. 

Luncheon — Cream cheese and pimento brown bread sandwiches, graham 
crackers, grape juice. 

Dinner — Barley soup, lima beans, mashed potatoes, cabbage salad with 
mayonnaise, black coffee, cheese and wafers. 

Breakfast — Breakfast food and cream, apple sauce, Graham gems, coffee. 
Luncheon — Cheese soufHe, milk biscuit, berries, tea. 
Dinner — Puree of peas, croutons, walnuts, apple and celery salad (Frenc^ 
Dressing), steamed rice pudding, coffee, cheese and wafers. 

Mrs. Kink's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Brbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 8, Copydght, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk, 



Recipe 1. BRESLAU OF MEAT. 

Materials. Measure. 

Chopped Beef, Veal 

sZ^n.±:::l cm directions. 

Butter 3 .Tablespoonfuls 

Fresh Bread Crumbs % Cup Beat the yolks and chop the parsley 

Cream or Milk .... % Pint fine ; then mix all the ingredients well 

ChoppedParsley... 1 TaWespoonful together. Brush custard cups well 

WOTcesVe'r^hire with melted butter and press the mix- 

Sance 1 Teaspoonful ture into them. Partly fill a baking 

Salt ....;... 1 Teaspoonful pan with boiling water, stand the cups 

Mushroom Catsup.. 1 Teaspoonful • •. . f,alfP in a nniVW nvpn for 

Nepaul Pepper ;r... % Teaspoonful i" «, and bake in a quick oven lor 

Kitchen Bouquet ... % Teaspoonful thirty minutes. When done, turn them 

Tomato Sa,uce ..... from the cups onto a heated dish, pour 

UTENSILS: around Tomato Sauce, garnished with 

Food Chopper Dripping Pan triangles or hearts of toasted bread and 

Bowl Custard Cups serve hot. 

Measuring Cup Egg Beater 

Tablespoon Teaspoon 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Jtidex Cooking Recipes. 

' Pablisbed by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyngbt, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirfc. 



Recipe 2. PICNIC PATTIES. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Pastry . . . : 

Chopped Chicken or ^ Ljjjg ^j^e patty pans with a rich 

Butter ............. 1 Tablespoonful pastry. Make a sauce of the butter, 

FJo«r •.... 1 Tablespoonful g ^.^^.j^ ^^^j ,,j.eam. Stir until it 

Meat Stock 72 Cup ... , , , ,t ^1 • • 

Cream % Cup thickens and add all the remaining in- 

Chepped Pimento . . 1 gredients. Fill the patties with this. 

Chopped Celery.... 1 Tablespoonful 5. ., ^ \. t. 1 • - t ^ 

Salt . . . . ........... Cover with a top crust. Bake in a hot 

UTENSILS:, oven. These are suitable for home 

?^KoSn siucrPal "^^^ ^"-heons or picnics. 

■Jtr- 



32 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 3. 

Materials. 

Fine Chopped Ham. 1 

Milk .... 1 

Fine Vvhite Bread . 

Crumbs ^ . % 

Butter 2 

Flour 3 

Eggs 3 

Slice of Onion 1 

Paprika 



HAM SOUFFLE. 



Measure. 

Pint 

Pint 

Pmt 

Tablespoonfuls 

Tablespoonfuls 



Tablespoon 
Baking Dish 
Sieve 



UTENSILS: 

Measuring Cup 
Food Chopper 
Sauce Pan 



DIRECTIONS. 



Melt the butter in the sauce pan 
and cook the onion in this without 
browning; add the flour, paprika and 
milk ; let boil until it begins to thicken, 
then strain over the bread crumbs and 
ham. Mix thoroughly, at the same 
time stirring in the yolks of eggs and 
fold in the whites beaten dry. Turn 
into the buttered baking dish, set into 
a pan of hot water and bake in a mod- 
erate oven thirty to forty minutes. 
Strained tomatoes may take the place 
of the milk. 



Recipe 4. THE REAL SPAGHETTI A LA ITALIANNE. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS, 

Salt Pork or Bacon 4 or 5 Slices / 

olZT ^^'^^ } Tablespoonful p^^ ^he salt pork or bacon into 

Sweet pVppers '..'.'. 3 the spider, and after the grease is thor- 

Beef or' Veal ..*.... 6 Slices oughly cooked out, discard the pieces 

Tomatoes 1 Can of fat. Add the tomato paste to the 

FiL-;::::::::::::: i^abStlui ^^'^'^ -"^ ^h-" «oftenef add the 

Grated.Cheese 1 Cup onions and peppers well chopped. 

Spaghetti Then to this add slices of beef or veal 

TTTiTMCTT c ^°'' ^^ ""^"^ P^^ccs as you have persons 

c , e .^ urtNbiLS.: to serve). Let this simmer ten min- 

Grlr'^''" HoSrving Dish ^''.' P"«i"g in the tomatoes and salt. 

Moisten the flour with a little Water, 
. = , use to thicken and Jet cook slowly on 

the back part of the stove, while pre- 
paring the spaghetti which should be put into a kettle half full of boiling 
water, and boil rapidly from 15 to 35 minutes. Blanch in cold water. Have 
the hot dish in which you wish to serve in readiness, cover the bottom with 
the sauce, then some of the cheese and a generous helping of spaghetti re- 
heated by setting the dish in boiling water; another layer of sauce and a 
fine sprinkling of cheese capped by a piece of the beef or veal, and you have 
a genuine dish of the " real thing." 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes, 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Afice Gitchell Kirk. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES. 



33 



Recipe 6. LENTEN EGGS ON CODFISH CAKES, 

Materials. Ueasure. DIRECTIONS. 

Chopped Salt Cod- 

D'^^d p't*t"*° 2V> C^^ ^"* °^ ^^^^ *^^ codfish in small 

sitter .?.*.°!!.:"'. % xSElespoonful P^«<=es, peel and dice the potatoes, al- 

Pepper lowing full measurement and put both 

Eggs 6 into the stew pan in boiling^ water to 

Bacon 2 Slices boil. When' the potatoes are tender, 

OnToirGVated •.::::: l SSoS!"'^ ^-In and mash all well together, add 

the well-beaten egg, a dash of pepper 
UTENSILS: *"^ *^^ butter, beat up very nice and 

Stew Pan Vegetable Knife light. Take up by tablespoonfuls, mold 

Measuring Cup Tablespoon into flat cakes, dip in fine bread crumbs, ^ 

Teaspoon Frying Basket place a few at a time in your frying 

Kettle Egg Poacher Fry-pan basket and dip in hot fat until a rich 

brown, drain on blotting or brown 

paper and arrange on a hot platter. 
Poach six -eggs in your'egg poacher and lift carefully to the top of the cod; 
fish cakes. In the meantime have the bacon cut up very fine, throw into a 
fry-pan until the fat is out, add the onion, stir well, remove from the fire and 
quickly put in the vinegar and dip this over the eggs. Send at once to the 
table. This is a very nice breakfast or luncheon dish. This will make six 
or eight cakes. 

AH measurements level unless otherwise stated. 



Hecipe 6. BAKED BEANS. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

White Navy Beans.. 1 Quart 

I^JtPojg*' u^ ^ '^- Wash and soak the beans over 

Tomato ^Sauce" !.'!!.■ 1 * Cup night in plenty of cold water. In the 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful morning wash and put them into the 

Soda J4 Teaspoonful kettle ; cover with cold water and bring 

Pepper % Teaspoonful slowly to the boiljng point. Add the 

soda when nearly boiling. Boil just a 

UTENSILS: moment and turn into a colander and 

Bean Pot Measuring Cup jrain well. Return to the kettle and 

Collnde? Sharp Kmfe cover with freshly boiled water and 

simmer until upon lifting some of th« 
■ beans on a spoon and blowing on there 

the skins crack. , Now pour into' thp 
bean pot and bury the pork, which has been scored or the skin cut through 
in squares, in the beans: Mix the molasses and a quart of water from the 
beans together, pour this over, sprinkle with pepper, add a cup of tomato 
sauce if you like the flavor and cover with the rest of the water, reserving 
the remainder to use later over the beans if they bake dry. Bake in a mod 
erate oven covered for six or eight hours. These should be perfect in shape 
and just mpist. These may be done in the Fireless Cooker and browned in 
the oven for twenty minutes. 

Krs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 
Publislied by Yawman & Erbe Ktg. Cb., Socfa0ster, N. Y. 
Su|)plemeotal Set N& 4. Copyright, WOS, br Mrs. Alice Gitchell Klilb 
•—3 



34 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

Recipe 7. CHILDREN'S SCHOOL SANDWICHES AND LUNCHEONS. 

"Over the hills and through the valleys 
List to nature's wooing call, 
Seek the field, the shore, the wildwood,. 
Summer comes with joys for all." 

Of all the work a mothei has to do Jor her children, none is more trouble- 
some than putting up luncheons day after day with a due regard for variefy 
and wholesomeness, and for the fickle and often unreasonable taste of the- 
child. If one could only give chocolate layer cake or large cucumber pickles 
every day and nothing else, then, indeed, one might be sure the luncheon 
would be eaten and approved by the small gourmand; but when one has a 
maternal conscience such things must be dealt out infrequently, and bread 
and butter offered day by day — a diet to which most children are indifferent 
if not actively hostile. 

How to "do up" a luncheon which shall be appetizing, wholesome, and 
varied day after day, when often the larder is bare of dainties, is indeed a 
subject for study. It may be done oecasional.y with comparative ease, since 
woman's wit is equal to severe strain, but for ten months a year and twenty 
days a month — that gives the most ingenious pause. 

Sandwiches are to be considered first, because one begins with them 
every morning. A good plan is to have them of different kinds of bread, 
either of white and whole wheat each day, or perhaps better, of white one day, 
whole wheat the next, Boston brown bread the third, white again the fourth, 
and little baking-powder biscuit the fifth. Of course fresh baked bread will 
not do ; it must be at least a day old, anc} should be very thin, with most of 
the crust cut off ; not all by any means, but only the heavy edge. 

Sandwich fillings are legion, many of them nourishing and good, and a 
little handbook of suggestions is a boon to mothers, because invention fails 
so often. These combinations will be found easily prepared and' appetizing. 

Meat Sandwiches. — Cold roast beef chopped and slightly salted, between 
slices of white bread. Chicken, cut very thin and salted ; white bread. Boiled 
ham, chopped. very fine, mixed with a very little dry mustard; brov^-n bread. 
Roast veal, finely chopped, with a few olives mixed in ; brown bread. One 
very thin layer of chopped ham and a §lice of chicken ; white bread. Corned 
beef shaved very thin ; white bread. 

Salad Sandwiches. — Lettuce leaves on white buttered bread," with a very 
little French dressing made by mixing a teaspoonful of oil with a few drops of 
lemon juice and a little salt. Chopped watercress on buttered bread, white 
or brown, with salt. Very thin slices of cucumber, with salt; white bread. 
Thin slices of tomato, draired of all pulp and seeds and wiped dry; salt. 
Nasturtium leaves, with French dressing or salt. Lettuce with a little cream 
cheese spread on it, and salt or lemon juice. Watercress arid cream cheese. 
Celery, chopped very fine and mixed with either French dressing or a little 
mayonnaise; or merely with salt and lemon juice ; whole-wheat bread. Chopped 
green peppers mixed with cream cheese. 

Sweet Sandwiches. — Chopped dates, wet with- a little cream ; white bread. 
Orange marmalade ; whole-wheat or white bread. Figs, chopped fine and wet 
with cream; whole-wheat bread. Figs and nuts, chopped together; white 
bread. Nuts and raisins, chopped together; whole-wheat bread. Candied 
ginger, chopped ; white bread. Prunes, chopped with peanuts ; white bread. 



MEAT SUBSTITUTES. 33 

Other mixtures are these : 

Hard-boiled eggs chopped and mixed with French dressing. Cream 
cheese, alone or mixed with chopped nuts ; Boston brown bread. Baked beans 
seasoned with lemon juice, mashed to a paste ; very thin white bread. Stewed 
oysters, chopped. Olives, chopped ; white bread. 

It is always best, if possible, to have two kinds of sandwiches, one of 
meat, eggs, or cream cheese, and the other of some sweet mixture, perhaps 
two of each. On the d^y the tiny biscuit are used there may be some thin 
slices of cold meat, with a couple of olives, for a change. 

Never warm or melt the butter, but beat until soft and creamy. The fill- 
ings may be made from all meats, most vegetables, eggs, cheese and the use 
of mayonnaise. Sandwiches depend upon the seasonings and it is very essen- 
tial to have these on hand so as to lend variety to the luncheons and outings. 
Season corned beef or chopped ham with mustard. Roast beef or boiled 
tongue with Harvey, Worcestershire sauce or horseradish. Lamb, with capers, 
tomato sauce, catsup or chopped mint. Chicken or veal with chopped celery 
or celery salt or chtJpped pimentos. (The latter are a sweet Spanish pepper 
put up in' little cans for 13 or 15 cents and a great addition in most, all cookery, 
particularly salads and sandwiches.) Fish with onion juice, parsley and 
chives. 

Nuts, cheese, eggs, mayonnaise, celery, cress, cucumbers, tomatoes and 
olives combined with meat and atiy of these vegetables make delicious sand- 
wiches. 

When they have to stand any length of time after making before they are 
to be used, pack in a stone jar and'cover with a cloth wrung out of cold water,' 
and when ready to be packed for the lunch wrap in oiled paper, keeping differ- 
ent foods separated by pieces of cardboard, and salads packed in tightly fitting 
jars. 

Recipe 8. SALAD SANDWICHES. 

Materials. DIRECTIONS. 

Tomatoes 

Ma^"nnaise^^^*^ " Cream the butter in the bowl. 

CWves ..^^. ...!..!." C"* the bread in round, thin slices. 

Salt and Paprika ... Butter. Have the tomatoes peeled and 

Chopped Peanuts .. very cold; slice thin and lift up with 

S'^^** the broad spatula on the bread ; sprinkle 

" ^'^ with salt and paprika. Cut the cheese 

TTTWMfiTT c ^^ t^^*^ ^s ^ wafer and have it round 

T, . r. r^. also. Lift this to the' tomato, spread 

&a^"^ ^"'^ Chopping Bowl with mayonnaise, chopped chives and 

Vegetable Knife Round Cutter peanUts. Cover with another round of 

buftered bread. Press well together. 
These may be changed to a most 
delicious salad by cutting the slices of. tomatoes quite thick ahd seasoning 
with salt and paprika. Then cheese and mayonnaise, another slice of tomato 
with seasoning; cheese, mayonnaise, chives and chopped peanuts on top. 
Serve on lettuce. 

Urs. Kirk's Card Index CooIdnK Recipes. 
PuWished by Yawman & Brbe Mfa Co., 'Rochester, N. Y. _ . 
Supplemental Set No. 3, Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Einc 



36 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

Recipe 9, HAM SANDWICHES. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. _ DIRECTION'S. 

Cold Boiled or 

CoWoikrTong«; t lb! . Chop. the meat fin.> pound and 

Cold Chicken ' % lb. ™x well in a mortar. If you do not 

Hard Boiled Eggs . . 4 have a mortar and pestle, put the meat 

Soft Mustard 1 Teaspoonful through the chopper two or three times 

2{i^F^^ vfJ^r%l ■ • • ^ Teaspoonful ^nd work well with the back of a spoon 

bait and Faprika ... „ .^, ^ j i, -it, 

Mayonnaise beason with mustard, salt, paprika and 

Bread capers ; moisten well with mayonnaise ; 

Butter , chop whites of eggs fine, add to this 

and mix all well together. Put the 
UTENSILS: yolks of the hard boiled eggs through 

Food Chopper Mortar and Pestle the vegetable press or sieve, season 

IteTp^f ' fFeturing Spoon ^^J salt and paprika and mix with 

Spatula Vegetable Press sufficient mayonnaise to spread. Cream 

Spoon the butter as usual, cut thin slices o£ 

bread, spread with the creamed butter. 

On one slice spread the meat mixture, 
on the other the egg mixture Press well together, wrap in oiled paper and 
pack. Be sure these (and in fact all sandwiches) are moist. Anything but 
a dry sandwich. 

If preferred, ham alone may be used with perfect results, either sliced 
or chopped and well seasoned. If lettuce is used with them shred it fine, 

* Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Secipes, 
"" Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 3. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 10. CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Materials. Measure. Weight DIRECTIONS. 

Cold Chicken 

'kt^lAALk'^'^^V^VJ" P"t any bits of cold chicken also 

bhreaaed Lettuce .. ., i li » ,, i. , , 

Nuts the celery through the food chopper. 

Mayonnaise using the fine cutter. Season well with 

Salt and Paprika i. . . salt and paprika and a dash of cayenne 

gyjjgj. pepper. Now mix well with the may- 

onnaise, half of which is whipped 
UTENSILS: • cream. Spread thin slices of bread with 

Food Chopper Sharp Knife " crusts removed with plenty of creamed 

Spatula Bowl butter. Spread the lower slice with 

SP°°" ' "y^^^'P Churn the chicken, mayonnaise and shredded 

, lettuce, and the upper slice with the 

nuts. 
Press well together ; pack in a jar covered well with a towel -wrung out 
of cold water. Qr, if preparing them for a picnic wrap them in oiled paper. 
If a sliced chicken sandwich is desired cut the chicken as thin as pos- 



EGGS. 37 

sible, spread with the mayonnaise — a little shredded lettuce on top of that 
and put between buttered slices of bread, trimming the edges neatly. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mig. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemeiital S«t No. 3. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



EGGS. 

(Steamed, Deviledj Stuffed, Scrambled, Curried and Omelets.) 



"We learn from mistakes, from experiences, even more than from success." 

"The discovery of a new dish does more for the happiness of man than the dis- 
covery of a star." 

(All meiasurements are level unless otherwise stated. Flour is sifted before 

measuring.) 

The housekeeper who has given little or no thought to the composition 
of eggs has much to learn of this very nutritive food. While this food, the 
£gg. is in common use and probably always will be, a little more thought 
should be given to the best ways of cooking it. 

One of the sirhple things to remember in cooking is that the albumen 
In the egg coagulates at a high temperature ; hence to have that soft creamy 
consistency, be careful of extremes in heat and too long a time over the fire. 

Eggs for cakes and souffles should be separated and the whites and yolks 
beaten separately.* The main thing in the white is the amount of air that is 
beaten into it. The white of the egg never acts chemically upon any of thp 
ingredients with which it is mixed, but the membrane being tough it has the 
power of sustaining the air beaten into it ; when carefully folded into the batter 
it sustains that lightness to the end, if carefully baked. 

'Hot or warm water makes a much more tender omelet than milk, and 
there is no reason for failure of these most toothsome articles if one is reason- 
ably careful. 

A good omelet pan is as necessary to success as good eggs. A good 
steel spider, smooth, and the right temperature will go a long way toward 
producing good results. 

It is the practice which makes perfect, and if you fail, try again for, " The 
man, or woman, who never makes any mistakes in life never makes anything 
else." 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 

Recipe 1. EGGS STEAMED. 

Materials. Measure. Wdght DIRECTIONS. 

Eggs 4 

Boiling Water ..... 2 Quarts Put the eggs into the stew pan 

UTENSILS* containing the boiling water and cover. 

T C.X 75 T? /^ If you use natural gas the entire plate 

Large Stew Pan Egg Cups ^^J^^^^ ^^^^ ^^ ^^ « ^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^ ^j^^ 

, , — — - , r, pan entirely off the stove. Let stand 

ten minutes. The white, will be of a 



38 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



creamy consistency, the yolk perfectly cooked, and altogether much more 
wholesome than the leathery white which is the- result of rapid boiling. If 
you should add six eggs let stand fifteen minutes. One egg, one quart of 
boiling water, cover and let stand live minutes.. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Kecipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 2. 

UaterialSi 

Strictly Fresh Eggs 
Salt and Pepper .... 

Toast 

Boiling Water 

Butter ., 



POACHED EGGS. 



Measure. Weight. 



DIRECTIONS. 



UTENSILS: 
Egg Poacher Spatula 



Fill the egg poacher or spider with 
boiling water. Draw the poacher tc 
one side of the stove where the water 
cannot possibly boil. Carefully break 
the eggs into the sections, cover and 
let stand three minutes or until the 
white is " set." Instead of covering 

you can dip the hot water over the 

eggs until they look pink. With^our 
spatula carefully loosen the egg and remove to a nicely browned and buttered 
piece of toast, cut round. Season with salt, and a dash of paprika, garnish 
with a bit of parsley and you not only have an attractive dish but if care- 
fully done a wholesome one as well. 

Mrs, Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published hy, Yawman & Erbe Mfe. Co.. Rochestei^, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. AHce Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 3. 

Materials. 

Fresh Eggs 6 

Large Slices of Ham 



HAM AND EGGS. 



Measure. Weight. 



DIRECTIONS. 



UTENSILS: 

Steel Spider Fork 

Hot Platter Spoon 

Broad Pancake Turner or Spatula 



Have the spider very hot. Put in 

the ham, sear and turn ; sear and turn 

again. So continue until the fat on 

the ham is a golden brown. Draw 

the ham from the fire, cut the ham in 

six small pieces, and arrange oti the- 

platter. Break the eggs in the fat. Be 

sure it is not so hot as to bubble and 

splutter. With a spoon dip the fat over the egg until a white film forms on 

the yolk; remove to the slices of ham. Serve at once, garnished with cress 

and slices of lemon. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Kecipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 190Q, by Mrs. AUce Gitchell Kirk. 



EGGS. 



39 



Recipe 4. LUNCHEON EGGS. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Tomato Sauce % Pint 

?oest^.°.'!!'!.^f.f. :: ^ Make a tomato sauce according to 

Paisley ..!.!!"!!!! Recipe 1 in saucefe. Chop the whites 

Cream % Cup of the eggs very fine and add to this 

Salt and Pepper — sauce with the cream, salt and pepper^ 

Arrange four dainty slices of toast on 

UTENSILS: a platter and pour over this sauce, 

Double Boiler Tablespoon forcing the yolks through the ricer 

^^»"fe Potato Ricer qj. cliopped very fine. Sprinkle this 

. over the top. A little grated cheese 

may be added to the tomato sauce when 
you have it. If there is too much acidity in the tomatoes which might make 
the sauce curdle, add just a pinch of soda. 



Recipe 5. DEVILED EGGS. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS, 

Eggs 6 

Pf^^^j^ 1^ TablespooHful Put the eggs into warmVater and 

Melted ButteV." !.'.'! ." 1 Tablespoonful bring to the boiling point which is 312 

Salt and Paprika to degrees. Lower to about 200 degrees 

taste and keep them there for thirty minutes. 

Put into cold water. Shell, cut into 

UTENSILS: halves lengthwise and remove yolks; 

Tablespoon Stew Pan put them into the bowl, add melted 

Mixing Bowl Wooden^Bowl and ^^^^^^^ ^j^^ pimento and ham chopped ; 

add the other ingre4ients, re-fill the 
• whites and fasten the. correisponduig 

halves together with toothpicks. Dip 
first in egg and then in bread crumbs, repeat once more and fry in hot fat. 
Serve wrapped in tissue paper, the ends fringed and tied for picnics, or, 
put on hot platter and pour white sauce or Mexican sauce around when served 
at home. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & "Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice GitchcU Kirk. 



Recipe 6. - FRIED STUFFED EGGS. 

Eggs^!*.'"f!'; 6 **"'""■ DIRECTIONS. 

Melted Butter 3 Tablespoonfuls 

Anchovies or Sar- Hard boil the eggs as for Recipe 

dines 3 or 3 jq^ cut lengthwise and remove the yolks 

S^XMuVtard ■.:::l Sl^oSS -d mash, season with all the ingred- 

Salt !.- lents given, mixing well. Ke-fill the 

Paprika % Teaspoonful whites, put two halves together, fas- 

UTENSILS: tening with a toothpick. Roll in egg 

lirife""^^" TeaspoC" and bread crumbs and fry in a hot 

Kettle Frying Basket fat. 



4© 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 7. 



PLAIN 'OMELET. 



Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Eggs 4 

SrnSr.:;::;: \ SSSr^ pe a steel spider always for an 

Butter 1 Tablespoonful omelet. Fry or frying pans are both 

A little grating of too thin and the omelet would heat too 

Nutmeg.. • ■ „ . , ,, quickly in the center. Put the butter 

Sairr'."^^-".'?^.::: iTea'SoonM"' into the spider and heat slowly. Break 

the eggs into the bowl and only beat 
sufficient to thoroughly mix the whites 
UTENSILS: and yolks; add the water and season- 

Flat Egg Beater Sted^Spider j^gg except parsley. Draw the pan to 

Tablespoon Ho^tpfatter the hottest part of the stove and when 

Teaspoon very hot, but the butter not browning, 

, add the eggs all at once. Let set a 

moment and then with your spatula 
loosen the omelet at the edge, allowing the thin portion or uncooked part to 
run under and so continue until the omelet is " set." Now sprinkle over the 
parsley finely chopped and with your spatula turn over one-third of the 
omelet, then fold once more as you turn it out. Serve at once. More failures 
are reported to me in omelets than in almost any other branch of cooking. 
Each and every detail must be carefully followed to insure success. The steel 
spider, perfectly smooth, is the first requisite, then do not beat the eggs too 
much, twelve or fifteen minute beats will usually do the work, and the butter, 
while hot, must not be brown and smoking. These directions carefully fol- 
lowed — not once but always — ^you cannot fail. 

This omelet may be varied by chopping ham Very fine — two tablespoon- 
fuls vifhen chopped — and adding just before folding. Then you have a ham. 
omelet. Peas, tomatoes, oysters, bacon, red and green peppers, sweetbreads ' 
and grated cheese all lend variety to a plain omelet. 

Mrs. KirVs Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Qitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 8. 



EGGS SCRAMBLED WITH PIMENTOS. 



Materials. Measure. 

Pimentos 1 

Onion Juice 1 Teaspoonful 

Chopped Parsley ... 1 Teaspoonful 
Eggs 4 



Sauce Pan 
Double Boiler 



UTENSILS: 

Wooden Spoon 
Tablespoon 



DIRECTIONS. 

Drain and chop the pimento fine. 
Add the onion juice, salt and pat«Iey 
and simmer for two minutes. Scramble 
the eggs in the double boiler and when 
nearly finished add the pimentos and 
finish together. 



EGGS. 



41 



Recipe 9. 

Materials. 

Butter 

Bread, grated 

Eggs 

Salt 

Paprika 

Sweet Green Pepper 
(small) 1 



BREAD OMELET. 

Measure. 
Tablespoonful 
% Cup 



DIRECTIONS. 



% Teaspoonful 



Preiiare the pan the same as for 
Plain Omelet. Soak the bread crumbs 
in just enough milk to soften.. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs separately. Add to 
the yolks the seasonings and bread 
crumbs. Mix well, very gently fold in 
the well beaten whites and the pepper 
finely chopped. Pour into the spider, 
leave for a moment over the fire. Then 
cover and set over a very moderate 

. heat for ten minutes. Cut nearly 

through the center, fold and turn on 
to a hot platter, and serve at once. This omelet is very nice without the 
pepper although the tone of the pepper to those who like it is a great 
addition. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfe. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1006, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



UTENSILS: 
Steel Spider Two Bowls 

Egg Beater Measuring Cup 

Chopping Bowl and Knife 



Recipe 10. CURRIED EGGS. 

■ Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Eggs 6 

Put the eggs into boiling water 

""*°"* *--^ and let cook just below the boiling 

Butter 1 Tablespoonful poi^t foj. thirty minutes. Put at once 

Bacon Fat 1 Tablespoonful, into cold water and when cool slice 

Curry Powder 1 Teaspoonful thin around a mound of rice on a hot 

Flour 1 Teaspoonful - chop plate. Have .the onions peeled 

„ , ... ^ , „ and sliced very thin and put with the 

Stock or Water .... 1 Cup ^^^ j^^^^ ^j^^ ^^^^^j^ ^^jj^^t- ^^^^ ^^^jj 

'^■'^^ the onions are soft and yellow ; now 

add all the remaining ingredients, stir 
UTENSILS: until boiling and the desired thickness. 

Strain this curry sauce and serve at 
VegetaJ)le Knife Tablespoon o^ce. Garnish with SMveet red peppers, 

Sauce Pan Double Boiler cut in fancy shapes. 



Recipe 11. EGGS A 

Materials. Measure, 

Eggs 4 

Parmesian Cheese . . 

Butter 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Cream 

Chopped Parsley . . . 
Salt and Pepper .... 

Toast 

UTENSILS: 
Baking Dish Chopping Bowl and 

Tablespoon Knife 

Toaster 



LA SUISSE. 

DIRECTIONS, 

Spread the butter in bits over the 
bottom of the baking dish, then a layer 
of cheese, then break the eggs. Salt 
and pepper, a little cream, then add an- 
other layer of cheese. Put into a mod^ 
erate oven 10 minutes, or until the eggs 
are set. Garnish with parsley and serve 
hot. 



43 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

Recipe 12. EGGS AU GRATIN. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Eggs 4 

Grated Cheese Have some boiling water in the 

S^" spider with the vinegar and a little 

-.^^^^"^ , ™ . 1 J. 1 salt. Use an egg poacher if you have 

Vinegar 1 Tablospoonful . . , , , , ■ ., 

-j-Qj^gj it ; if not, break the eggs into the water ; 

cook slowly until the eggs are set; lift 

UTENSILS: out carefully and set on' rounds of but- 

Egg Poacher Broad Spatula tered toast. Sprinkle each egg with d 

bpider j-^^jg grated cheese, brown quickly in 4 

hot oven and serve. 



SAUCES. 

(For Meats, Fish, Vegetables, Puddings and Frozen DessertSi) 



" Sauces and soups are the fine art of cookery and the person who understands them 
must understand' tastes and flavors and possess a trained palate." 

(All measurements leveL Flour sifted before measuring.) 

It is considered a great art by a few cooks and housekeepers to make good 
sauces. Unfortunajtely, it is the few rather than the many who recognize 
this or really take the trouble to make sauces properly. They hurry over therii 
and subject them to too much heat and consequently send to the table a 
thick, disagreeable paste, lumpy or thin and watery. 

To make good sauces takes a little time, but it is quite worth while as 
gravies and sauces constitute the perfection of entrees; even for a simple hash 
it is very necessary to make them with care. When one becomes familiar 
with a basis for all sauces others are quickly, and easily made. 

Sauces are intended as an accompaniment to the meat, fish, vegetable or 
pudding with which they are served and should be in perfect harmony with it. 
They should never be so prominent in flavoring or served in such quantity as 
to lose sight of the main dish. Pale sauces and gravies are, not desirable, and 
this can easily be remedied by always having a bottle of Kitchen Bouquet in 
the kitchen, and using it sparingly as so little is required to produce the re- 
quired color and flavor. If you wish a white sauce, have it white ; if a yellow 
one, yellow; and a brown sauce should be brown- Browned flour is also ex^ 



SAUCES. 



43 



cellent for thickening and coloring and gives a fine flavor but double the 
given amount of flour when desired browned. 

Serve a sauce as soon as possible after making as there is danger of 
separating. 

If necessary to keep hot, set in a pan of hot water. 

All sauces are made or derived from brown or white sauce and the 
flavoring makes the numerous changes. The basis for this is one rounding 
tablespoonful of butter, the same of flour and one-half pint of any desired 
Hquid, such as stock, strained tomatoes, milk, cream, water, etc. 

Certain sauces belong to some particular vegetable, meat, fish or dessert, 
such as brandy sauce with plum pudding, cranberry sauce with turkey, apple 
sauce with pork, mint sauce with lamb, and caper saucB with mutton. 

A general principle in uniting niaterial for sauces is, rub butter or fat 
and flour together, and soften with a little of the hot liquid which is heating 
in the double boiler; stir all together until it is the desired thickness. In 
this way the flour is most thoroughly cooked, besides more digestible than 
when cooked in the fat. 

The main or standard seasonings are salt, pepper, paprika, onion, bay leaf, 
Worcestershire sauce, Tobasco sauce, mint, capers, an4 flavorings from- meats, 
fish, stock or vegetables. The thickening may be flour, bread crumbs, yolks 
of eggs, arrowroot, cornstarch or vegetable puree. 

There are many fruit sauces very n|ce for puddings and ice creams made 
from crushed fresh fruits and the juice and sugar cooked to any desired 
thickness. 



Recipe 1. WHITE SAUGE. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 
Butter 1 Rounding Table- 
Flour 1 Rounding Table- . ^"b the butter and flour together 

spoonful in the double boiler. When smooth 

Milk 1 Cup add the milk. Stir over the fire steadily 

|alt ^ Teaspoonful unty jj thickens. Add the seasoning 

Pepper % Teaspoonful j 'j. • j r <t.i.- • ^i 

and It IS ready for use. This is the 

UTENSILS- basis of all sauces. One cup of strained 

_,.„.. T W ' tomatoes in place of milk or cream 

Measuring C^ TLspo^on°" ^ill make tomato sauce, adding a sea- 

soning of bay leaf and onion when 

• stewing the tomatoes. To make an 

egg sauce add four hard boiled eggs, 
the yolks put through the ricer and the whites chopped fine. This sauce 
is very nice to serve either with chicken or boiled salt cod. For a Butter 
Sauce substitute boiling water instead of the milk or cream, adding it slowly 
beating all the while. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawraan & Elbe Mfg. Co., Rochester. N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906. by Mrs. i^ce Gitchell Kirf. 



44 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 2. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 
Butter 2 Rounding Table- 
spoonfuls Put bay leaf, onion and vinegar 

Flour ; 1 Rounding Table- over the fire in a small stew pan, bring 

spoonful . to the boiling point and cool. Rub the 

Grated Onion 1 Tablespoonful , butter and flour together in the double 

Tarragon Vinegar boiler and add gradually the water, 

or Lemon Juice 2 TablespQonfuls stir until thickened and the flour 

Yolks of Eggs 2 cooked. Now add the vinegar strained. 

Bay Leaf 1 Remove from the fire and stir in the 

Boiling Water .... 1 Cup yolks of the eggs one at a time, stirring 

Salt % Teaspoonful gently. Reheat just a momeni ; add 

White Pepper salt and pepper ; strain and serve at 

once. This is elegant for fish or 

UTENSILS' used in many ways with vegetables, 

Measuring Cup Sauce Pan " being especially nice with -Brussels 

Measuring Spoon Double Boiler sprouts spinach and asparagus. This 

Tablespoon Small Sieve ^auce should be served as soon as made. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1806, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 3. 

Materials. 

Mushrooms 

Kitchen Bouquet . . . 
Sweet Green Pepper 
White Sauce 



MUSHROOM SAUCE. 



Measure. 

1 Can 

V2 Teaspoonful 

1 



DIRECTIONS. 



UTENSILS: 

Double Boiler Tablespoon 

Teaspoon 



Make according to recipe for White 
Sauce (See Recipe 1) ; add the kitchen 
bouquet and 1 can of mushrooms 
drained and rinsed in cold water; 
stand the double boiler over a slow 
fire for ten minutes. This is nice 
served with sweetbreads or warmed- 
over chicken. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 4. CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Chocolate . , 1 Square 

Sugar 1 Cup ^ Melt the chocolate in the double 

Boiling Water 1 Cup boiler. Add the sugar and water. Stir 

Vanilla 1 Teaspoonful while adding the water, so as to form 

Nuts, chopped Vs Cup a smooth, glossy mixture as it cooks. 

Keep adding the water and the sugar 

UTENSILS: f-ntil all is used. Boil until thick as 

Double Boiler Measuring Cup desired. Remove from the fire, add 

Tablespoon Teaspoon ' vanilla and nuts and serve at once. 

' Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes, 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. AUce Gitchell Kirk. 



SAUCES, 



45 



Redpe S. 



LEMON SAUCE. 



Materials. Measure. 

Flour 1 Tablespoonful 

Boiling Water 1 Cup 

Sugar % Cup 

Egg 1 

Vanilla 1 Teaspoonful^ 

Lemon 1%-Teaspoonfuls 

UTENSILS: 
Double Boiler Measuring Cup 

Grater Lemon Squeezer 

Egg Beater 



DIRECTIONS. 

Mix the flour and sugar well to- 
gether in the double boiler and pour 
over quickly in the boiling water, all 
the time until it thickens. - Remove 
from the fire and add the lemon juice 
and grated peel and pour while hot 
over the well-beaten egg. Mix well. 
This is nice sauce tp serve over any hot 
puddings. 



Mri, Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes, 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfi;. Co., Rochester, N. V. 

Supplemental Set Mo. 6. Copyright, 1909, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirfc. 



Recipe 6. HARD SAUCE. 

Materials. Measure. 

Butter % Cup 

Powdered Sugar ... 1 Cup 

Vanilla 1 Teaspoonful 

Brandy 1 Tablespoonful 



DIRECTIONS. 



Wash the butter in cold water un- 
til it is elastic ; put it into the bowl and 
heat to a cream. When light, grad- 
ually add the sugar beating all the 
while. Add vanilla and gradually the 
brandy. Put into an attractive dish 
to serve. Set on ice until wanted. 
Fresh strawberries are a nice addition 
to this, or a little grating of nutmeg 
over the top. The brandy may be omitted by those who do not care to use 
it. If brandy is omitted add one teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. ' 

-Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 
C^yright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



UTENSILS: 
Bowl Small Flat Beater 

Measuring Cup Tablespoon 

Teaspoon 



Recipe 7. MINT SAUCE. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Gran. Sugar 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Boiling Water ..... 1 Tablespoonful Dissolve the sugar in the boiling 

arOiK."!.::::: i SbSooSfui' water and add the chopped mint, cover 
Vinegar % Cup and set away for one hour. 1 hen drop 

by drbp add olive oil and vinegar. Mix 

UTENSILS: well together and serve with ■ fresh 

Bowi Measuring Cup lamb. Fiwely chopped mint mixed with 

rablespoon a glass of currant or green grape jelly 

is an agreeable Change. 



46 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 8. CRANBERRY JELLY. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Cranberries 1 Quart 

Water Va Cup 

Sugar 3 ' Cups 

Tart Apples S 

Cinnamon Vi Teaspoonful 



UTENSILS: 



Paring Knife 
Stew Pan 
Mould 



Measuring Cup 
Measuring Spoon 
Sieve 



Wash and pick over the cran- 
berries, put into the stew pan with the 
water and apples quartered and cored. 
Cover, and when the cranberries are 
well " popped " open and the apples 
tender rub through a sieve or colander. 
Add the sugar, return to the fire, stir 
until the sugar is dissolved and bring 
only to the boiling point. Remove from 
the fire, flavor, turn into a mould or 
individual glasses and serve with roast 
turkey. The cinnamon and apples may 
be omitted if desired. 



Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 2. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 9. APPLE SAUCE. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Tart Apples 6 

Butte'i- !!!!'..'.";!;!.' 1 Teaspoonful Wipe the apples, cut in quarters 

Nutmeg and core. Put into the sauce pan with 

half a cup of water; cover and cook 
UTENSILS' vintil soft. Press through the colander. 

Sauce Pan Colander ^^^ .*^® ^^^^^ ^"^ ''""^'" ""'^^^ ^ ^''S'^* 

Wooden Spoon Vegetable Paring grating of nutmeg or cinnamon. Mix 

Knife well and it is ready for use. 



SOUPS. 

(Soup Stocks and Meat and Vegetable Soups.) 



" Scientific cookery in the home, by the mistress or housekeeper, meShs the elevation 
of the human race;" ' 

(All measurements level unless otherwise stated. Flour sifted before 

measuring.) 

Most soups are spoiled by making them in too much of a hurry, and cook- 
ing rapidly. - i 

Retaining the flavor by slow cooking and by having a soup kettle with 



SOUPS. 4? 

a tightly fitting cover, made from granite or aluminum or any good ware 
which will not chip, is a necessity in making good soup. 

Have it large enough to contain meat, bones and water, and room for 
Skimming. When all is ready and in the kettle, place over the fire and bring 
slowly to the boiling point and skim. Now lower the flame if you use gas 
or set back on the stove to simmer. Never boil soup as it makes it tasteless 
and cloudy. 

Very good soup stock is made from beef alone but it is improved in flavor 
when made from equal parts of beef and veal. Veal and chicken make a 
white stock and delicate in flavor ; or, again, a stock from one-half of beef and 
one-quarter each of mutton and pork, liver and ham are used for flavor. 

Americans are just beginning to learn the value of having soup stock 
always on hand to use for gravies, sauces, made-over dishes, etc., which has 
been much of the secret of taste and flavor in French and other foreign cooking. 

Soups have been looked upon as a dish for'the rich. They are for rich and 
"poor alike. 

Use the clear soups or those with vegetables for dinner. 

The cream or heavy soups may be served to better advantage for luncheon 
or supper dishes and if we realized the value of soups we would have them 
on our regular bills of fare. 

Soups, however, should not be gulped down or taken into the mouth and 
then swallowed, but held long enough to mix well with the saliva before enter- 
ing the stomach. ■ 

A great variety of soups to suit individual tastes and occasions may be 
made with very little trouble, but learn first how to make a good soup stock 
as a basis for many good and wholesome soups. 



Recipe 1. SOUP STOCK 

Materials. Measure. Weight DIRECTIONS. 

Shin oi Beef 34^ lbs. 

Water 2 Quarts Cm thg meat from the bones. Put 

f^^^l iTablespoonful ^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^ j^^,f ^^^ ^^.^^ ^j.^^^ 

Xloves ............'. 6 into the soup-kettle, stir until it browns 

Bay Leaf 1 and forms a caramel ; then add the 

TTTUMCTTc '"^^^ bones, and water. Cover and 

UTliNbil.s.: j^j.jjjg ^gj.y sjo^iy to tjjg boiling point. 

^Soup Kettle, porce- Colander g^j^^ rj,^^^ ^^^ ^^^ ,^^ ^^^ j^^ g.^_ 

lain Imed or gran- Puree Sie^re ^^^ ^^^ ho^^g. ^jjen add the remain- 

'*® Knife jpg jjj^ii qI onion into which you have 

stuck the cloves and bay leaf. Simmer 

another hour then strain through the 
colander. Put the stock in- a cold place over night. In the morning re- 
move the fat, put back into the soup-kettle. Beat the white of an egg well 
with the crushed shell in a half cup of water. Stir this well into the stock. 
Bring to the boiling point. Boil hard three minutes, skim and strain through 
two thicknesses 'of cheese cloth. A teaspoonful of lemon juice may be added 
just beifore straining. This makes the stock clear and sparkling and it is the 



48 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



foundation of innumerable dinner soups, such as noodle, vegetable, ric« 
macaroni, etc. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by. Yawmsn & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, M. V. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. AUce Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 2^ 

Materials. 

Soup Stock 
Carrot .... 
"turnip ... 
Potato. .... 
Tomato . . , 
Barley .... 
Parsley (chopped) 
Celery Seed ..... 
Salt, Pepper or Pap- 
rika ............. 



GOOD VEGETABLE SOUP. 



Measure,. 

Qu^rt 



Weight 



y* 



Tablespoonful 
Tablespoonful 
Teaspoonful 



UTENSILS: 
Two Stew Pans Small Knife 
Vegetable Cutters 



DIR13CTIONS. 

Soak the barley two -hours and then 
put into a stew pan over the fire, and 
simmer very gently one hour. Prepare 
the vegetables and cut in fancy shapes 
or dice. Put them over the fire covered 
with boiling water and cook until ten- 
der. Add the stock to the barley, and 
when hot the cooked vegetables with 
the tomato cut in tiny pieces, and all 
the remaining ingredients. Simmer 
very slowly ten or fifteen minutes and 
turn into a hot tureen. Additional 
seasoning and color may be obtained 
by the use of a few drops of Kitchen 
Bouquet. 



...... K"- Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 
Copyright. 1908, by Mrs. Afice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 3. TOMATO SOUP WITH VEGETABLES. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. -r^-rr^T^^r,,-,^^.,,^ 

Tomatoes 1 Can DIRECTIONS. 

Carrot 1 

Onion "^^"^"'"^ ■■■I .Add the stock and all the flavor- 
Soup Stock or Water 1 Pint j."^^ *° ^^9 tomatoes ; cover and simmer 
Kitchen Bouquet ... V2 Teasp6onful fifteen minutes. Cook the celery and 
Butter 3 Tablespoonfuls carrot cut in small pieces in a separate 

fir.;;::::::::;:::? Si^rnTu^ ^^p^- Brown the jour in the fry- 

Bay Leaf 1 P^"' ^^^ butter, and rub together until 

Paprika smooth. Now put in the tomato mix- 

r^ ^ ^ UTENSILS: . ture and stir until boiling and put 

TrblefSn"^'"^ Teaspoon" ^"' ^^°"^^ V'^^^" • ^^-\\^^i vegetables, 

Knife Steel Fry-pan when tender unite with the soup, re- 

Sieve heat and serve with croutons. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1006, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



■ SOUPS. 



49 



Recipe 4. CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 



Materials. Jileasure. Weight. 

Milk 1 Quart 

Strained Canned 

Tomatoes 1 Pint , 

Bay Leaf 1 Large 

Butter 1 Rounding Table- 
spoonful 
Flour 2 Rounding Table- 
spoonfuls 

Mace 1 Blade 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful 

Sugar 1 Teaspoonful 

Soda ,..'.. Vk Teaspoonful 

Parsley (chopped) 1 Tablespoonful 
Pepper 



UTENSILS: 



Double Boiler 
Tablespoon 
Soup Tureen 



Measuring Spoon 
Sieve 



DIRECTIONS. 

Put the tomatoes into stew pan 
with the bay leaf and mace. Coyer and 
simmer slowly fifteen miputes. Put' 
the milk into a double boiler. Rub the 
butter and flour together adding a little 
of the hot milk until smooth. Pour 
into the milk, stirring all the while un- 
til it thickens. Strain the tomatoes into 
a soup tureen,, add the sugar, soda, salt 
and pepper, then pour in the creamy 
mixture all at once, stirring very gently 
until well blended. Sprinkle the pars- 
ley over the top and serve at once. 
This soup should never be thick but 
of a light cream consistency. One-half 
the amount of tomatoes may be used if 
preferred. , 



Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Publlslied by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. ^ce Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipes. CREAM OF PEA SOUP. 

Materiab. Measure. •-- DIRECTIONS, 

Peas % Can 

FlSSr".:::::::::::;: I Sblespoonfuls ; , open the can of peas fuHy an hour 

Butter 1 Tablespoonful before usmg and empty at once from 

Salt and Pepper ... . the can. Put the milk into the double 

Parsley (chopped).. 1 Teaspoonful , ., •,, ,. . . . , 

Slice of Onion boiler with the onion and rub the 

butter and flour together until smooth, 

UTENSILS: with a little hot milk, and then pour 

Double Boiler Colander it into the double boiler with the 

Measuring C»p Tablespoon remaining milk, stirring all the time 

Egg Beater Fine Sieve until it begins to thicken; now beat 

, well with the egg beater until creamy, 

about five minutes. Press the peas, in- 
cluding liquid, through the colander 
and put into the double boiler, beat again, season with salt and pepper, press 
through a fine sieve, add finely chopped parsley and serve with croutons, 
which are made by spreading slices of bread with butter and cutting in 
2—4 



50 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



squares; put into a pan under the toaster, watching carefully until a nice 
brown on both sides. 



Recipe 6. CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Materials. MeasuTe. DIRECTIONS. 

Stalks of Asparagus 1% Dozen 

BoXgwaier-:::::^ S , .^"' '^° '"'^''. tT '^t'J^^Uo 

Mjlk 4 Cups fresh asparagus and throw them into 

Flour .......... . . . . 2 Tablospoojif uls cold water. Cut all that is good .of the 

Butter a Tablespoonfuls remaining portion in small pieces and 

fait anrt^PeD;;^"' ^ P"^ 1"*° the stew pan with the given 

salt ana repper ... amount of bpiling water. Cover and 

UTENSILS: simmer gently half an hour. Press well 

Stew Pan Double Boiler through a colander. Turn this into the 

Measuring Cup Tablespoon double boiler with the milk. Rub 

Egg Beater Bowl butter and flour together in the bowl, 

boup iureen adding a little of the hot milk until 

it will pour like good cream; Stir this 

well into the milk mixture, and when 

it begins to thicken beat well with the egg beater. While this is cooking, 

put the tips into a pan with the bay leaf, slice of onion, a little salt and boil' 

ing water and cook for ten or fifteen minutes, or until just tender. Drain 

Have soup tureen hot, season and pour in the soup and place the asparagus 

tips on top, distributing them in each plate of soup. Be careful in cooking 

asparagus with milk, as an acid in the asparagus is apt to make it curdle. 



Recipe 7. 



MOCK OYSTER SOUP. 



Materials. Measure. 

Vegetable Oysters.. 13 Stalks 

Boiling Water 1 Quart 

Milk 1 Pint 

Onion > . . . . 1 Slice 

Butter 1 Tablespoonful 

Flour 1 Tablespoonful 

Salt 

Pepper 

Parsley ,1 Sprig 

Vinegar or Lemon 

Juice 1 Tablespoonful 

UTENSILS: 
Stew Pan Measuring Cup 

Double Boiler Tablespoon 

Colander 



DIRECTIONS. 

Scrape the vegetable oysters and 
throw at once into cold water with 
the vinegar or lemon juice to prevent 
discoloring; cut thin slices; put these 
into the stew pan with the boiling 
water, onion and sprig of parsley ; cook 
slowly thirty minutes or until tender. 
Put the milk into the double boiler, add 
the butter and flour rubbed together, 
stir until it is smooth and begins to 
thicken. When the vegetable oyster is 
done rub through the colander and 
pour into the double boiler, season and 
serve. 



veg:^tables, gi 

Recipe 8. POP-CORN SOUP. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Ears of Com a 

Butte" !!".!!!!! ■.,"!!! 2 TaUespoonfuls ^"* *^^ *"^^^ *"t° the double boiler 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful over the fire with the bay leaf and 

Milk 1 Quart onion. Score each row of corn down 

pio^i' o T t,i t ^ *^« center with the sharp knife and 

Pepper' '.i ! ! 1 ! ." ! ! i ! ! ! ^ Tablespoonfuls ^jj ^^ ^j, ^ ^.jj^^ ^^^ ^^^f^^. ^^ ^ ^^^^ 

Pop-Corn together, moisten with a little of the 

hot soup, to make a paste, and turn 

Sharo Veeetable Tabiesoo '"*° *^^ "^^^'^' ^*'''- constantly about 

Kmfe Double Boiler ^^e minutes, or beat with egg beater. 

Measuring Spoon Serve with pop-corn mstead of wafers. 



VEGETABLES. 

(Full directions for cooking all kinds of vegetables and retaining their 

delicate flavors.) 

"We go on in the beaten path without profiting by the varieties to be found on every 
side." 

(All measurements level unless otherwise stated. Flour sifted before 

measuring.) 

Vegetables are divided into four groups : 

1. Muscle Building or Nitrogenous. — ^These take the pliace of meat and 
are such as peas, beans, lentils, and nttts.. 

2. The Heat and Energy Producers. — ^These must be used in larger quan- 
tities than the jnuscle building foods. They are rice, white and sweet pota- 
toes, white bread, macaroni, spaghetti, chestnuts and the cereals. 

3. Fat Producers. — ^These include nuts and olives^ This group is one 
not so largely used or considered. Many times used only as " extras " when 
we have company. This is a grave mistake. 

4. The vegetables of this group are important as cleaners and are largely 
water, mineral water and fine flavoring. They include lettuce, radishes,, cab- 
bage, celery;. in fact, all the green succulent vegetables come under this head 
and are used largely in sa^ds. '• 

All vegetables should be cooked in uncovered vessels in boiling water. 

Vegetables growing above ground should have salt adde3 to the water. 
Underground vegetables, such as turnips and beets, should be cooked in boil- 
ing, unsalted water. 

Dry vegetables, such as old peas and beans should be soaked over night 
in cold water. 

To freshen vegetables when wilted, soak an hour in cold water. Never 
add salt as it softens them ; particularly is this true of cucumbers. 

All vegetables must be thoroughly cleaned before usinpf and nothing is 
better for this than a vegetable brush and a sharp pointed knife. 

Many pages might be written on the food value of vegetable diet. It is 



52 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

the one thing in cooking that requires care ; it is the one thing that does not 
get it. There are general principles underlying all vegetable cooking which 
are easy for every housekeeper to understand, if her interest can be aroused to 
do it. As vegetables are generally cooked they are tasteless and there is no 
branch of cooking as carelessly done, both at home and in hotels and restau- 
rants, as the cooking of vegetables. 

Practically all the elements necessary for the building of the body are 
found in vegetables and with these are included nuts and fruits. Health and 
nutrition depend upon the right selection and combination of these. There 
is such a variety of vegetables to be had in every state. Combine with this 
their clean and wholesome qualities and it is a wonder we are such a meat 
eating nation. But vegetable cooking requires greater care than cooking 
meat. Careless and rapid cooking dissipates the flavor and then we have a 
tasteless article. 

Vegetables should not be closely covered while cooking. They are full 
of volatile oils — some more than others — and if these with the gases generated 
by cooking are not allowed to pass off into steam the vegetables are dark and 
strong in flavor. 

Our living, habits, and character are largely dependent upon what we 
eat and we must, to sustain life, eat every year about half a ton of cooked food. 
One can readily see that a large proportion of the health, » comfort and happi- 
ness of the home comes from the dining room and kftchen. How important it 
is, then, that we and our daughters should be educated along the lines of 
cookery. The practical kind where they can apply their chemistry both in 
the kitchen and laundry if need be ; their physiology in the selection and 
cooking of foods ; their lessons in fine arts, in the harmony of foods. Never 
be at the mercy of your cook, but know these thiiigs yourself. If you do not 
you will have not only badly cooked foods but unfriendly combinations. 

Recipe L BOILED RICE. 

Materials.* Measure, 

Sah .'.'.'.°.'.'.y.'.'.'.['.'.[ % Teaspoonful „ B uy the best South Carolina whole 

Boiling Water ...... 2 Quarts nce and put the given amount into 

cold water, washing well. Repeat sev- 

UTENSILS; eral times. Then cover with cold water 

One Large Stew Measuring Cup and soak over night or for several 

Pan Colander ^^^^^^ Have the Stew pan ready with 

■„ the boiling water, drain the rice, and 

add a little at a time so as not to stop " 
the rapid boiling. Let boil very rapidly for ten or fifteen minutes, or until 
a kernel is soft under pressure with a fork. Drain in a colander and hold 
under the cold water faucet, letting the cold water run slowly over it. This 
removes the starch and whitens the rice. Now sprinkle with salt and set 
the colander on a pie pan in a warm oven to dry, occasionally tossing the 
rice up and down. This is a fine substitute for potatoes at least twice a 
week and may be served with a little pitcher of melted butter or butter and 
sugar or a rich brown gravy. 

- . .. . ^!^- Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 
Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 
Supplemental Set No.' 2. Copyright, 1908. by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk 



VEGETABLES. 



53 



Recipe 2. 



RICE CROQUETTES. 



Materials. Ueaanre. 

Rice ...... i 1 Cup 

Milk ^4 Cups 

Yolks of Eggs 4 

Chopped Parsley .. 1 Tablespoonful 
Salt and Pepper ^ 

UTENSILS; 
Frying Basket Measuring Cup 

Kettle Tablespoon 

Egg Beater Double Boiler 



DIRECTIONS. 

Wash the rice and put into the 
double boiler with the milk. Cook 
until all the milk has been absorbed by 
the rice. Add the beaten yolks, pars- 
ley, salt and pepper. Mix and cool. 
Shape in any desired form, roll in 
beaten -egg and bread crumbs, set in 
the frying basket and dip into hot fat. 
These may be served with cream or 
tomato sauce. They may also be 
shaped like little nests and a nice bit 
of jelly put in theiii when ready to 
serve. , 



Recipe 3. 



Materials. 
Chopped Potatoes .. 5 
Sweet Green Pepper V^ 
Salt"^ ............... 

Butter 2 

Chopped Parsley ... 1 
Onion , 1 



POTATOES O'BRIEN. 



Measure. 



TablespoorifuJs 

Tablespoonful 

Tablespoonful 



UTENSILS: 

Steel Spider Tablespoon 

Chopping Bowl and Knife 
Measuring Cup 



biRECTIONS. 

Peel and slice a medium-sized 
onion and remove the seeds from the 
pepper. Chop both fine, also parsley. 
Chop the potatoes and mix with the 
first mixture and salt. Put the butter 
into the steel spider — or half butter ^.nd 
half fryings; when hot add the pota- 
toes. Smooth, and when they brown 
stir them up. Dp not cook them too 
fast. When done press to one side of 
the spider, brown and turn out on a 
hot platter to serve. 



Recipe 4. 



HASHEt) BROWN POTATOES. 



Materials. Measure. 
Cold Boiled Pota- 
toes 2 

Salt % Teaspoonful 

Pepper 

Cream 4 Tablespoonfuls 

Butter i 1 Tablespoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Steel Spider Tablespoon 

Measuring Spoon Chopping Bowl and 
Kmfe 



DIRECTIONS. 

Chop the potatoes rather fine, add 
salt and pepper and the cream ; put the 
butter into the spider; melt; add the 
potatoes, smooth down nicely, cover, 
cook a moment over the fire and push 
back on the stove where they will cook 
slowly 10 minutes. Turn out on a hot 
platter as you would an omelet. '"• 



S4 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK 



Recipe 5. 



POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

DIRECTIONS. 



Materials. Measure. Weight. 

Potatoes (boiled)... 5 

Cream 1 Cup 

Flour 1 Tablespoonful 

Eggs 3 Yolks 

Stock or Milk 1 Cup 

Butter 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Grated Cheese 6 Tablespoonfuls 

Salt 1 Teaspoonf ul 

Paprika % Teaspoonful 

Sweet Pepper, red 

and green 1 of each 



UTENSILS: 

Fry-pan Baking Dish 

Bowl Egg Beater \ 

Potato Knife 



Rub butter and flour together un- 
til smooth in the fry-pan, add stock 
and cream and stir until it boils,- take 
from the fire, add the yolks well beaten," 
cheese, and seasonings. Put a layer of 
this sauce in the bottom of a baking 
dish, sprinkle over this some of the 
peppers chopped fine, then a layer of 
the potatoes sliced, another layer of 
sauce and peppers, and so continue, 
having the last layer sauce; sprinkle 
bread crumbs over the top and a few 
small pieces of butter and bake in a 
quick oven until brown. Serve in the 
dish in which it was baked. 



Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

-Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 6. LIMA BEANS. 

Material. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Lima Beans 1 Can ,i ^ ,, ,• t .-v 

Butter 3 Tablespoonfuls Choose the small lima beans. Open 

Yolk of Eggs 2 the can, drain, and rinse well with cold 

Parsley 1 Tablespoonful water. Put over the fire with just 

kltXntequ^t-:: ^A TeS^rnTul'^' enough water to keejx them from burn- 

Sprig of Mint 1 ing until w^ll heated through. Beat 

X the butter and eggs well together, add- 

UTENSILS: jj^g ^jie parsley finely chopped and all 

Stew Pan or Chafing Dish the remaining seasonings. Add the 

Teaspoon Tablespoon gauce carefully to the beans and when 

, hot serve at once. Peas are very nice 

" prepared in the same manner. 

Mrs. lark's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 7. PLAIN ASPARAGUS. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Asparagus .' . . 1 Bunch 

Butter 2 Tablespoonfuls ..^r , n i. i i! 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful Wash well a bunch of asparagus \ 

cut off the very hard portion and tie 

UTENSILS: in small bundles. Put them upright 

Ta,bleapooflj Teaspoon into a kettle of water, leaving the tips 

Parmg Knife out of tKe water for the first fifteen 

_____ minutes. Then cover with bojljng 

water and cook until tender. Drain, 



VEGETABLES. 



55 



This may also be 
Pour over a sauce 



put into a dish and pour over the carefully melted butter, 
served on nice squares of toast arranged on a hot platter, 
made as follows: 

Rub one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour well together in a 
stew pan; add one cup of cold milk and stir constantly until it reaches the 
boiling point. Add salt and pepper and strain over the asparagus and toast. 
An egg beaten into the sauce just as you remove it from the fire is a nice 
addition. Serve also with HoUandaise sauce for a change. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Becipesi 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mig, Co., Rochester, N, Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 8. ASPARAGUS TIPS IN PATTIE CASES. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Pattie Cases 4 

^sPfragias Tips .... 2 Cups Select fresh, tender asparagus and 

Milk and Cream ... 1 Cup . . • . . _,. ■ j ° .. 

Butter 1 Tablespoonful cut m mch length pieces down the 

Flour 1 Tablespoonful Stalk as far as tender. Throw into 

Salt and Pepper . . . plenty of rapidly boiling water and boil 

UTENSILS- until tender. Drain and save the water 

_ _ rj. ., ' with the remaining stalks for soup the 

Sauce Pan Tablespoon next day. Make a white sauce with 

Measuring Cup ^j^^ ^^jj^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^ ^^^_ 

, sonings. Add the asparagus, mix care- 
fully so as not to have the pieces 
mashed. In the meantime have the pattie cases heating; fill, set on a small 
paper doily on a hot plate and serve at once. 



Recipe 9. 



BAKED STUFFED TOMATOES. 



Materials. Measure. 

Tomatoes 4 

White Bread 

Crumbs 

Grated Onions .... 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Egg 1 

Salt and Paprika .. 

Butter 

Chopped Parsley ... 1 Tablespoonful 

UTENSILS: 
Vegetable Knife Grater 
Egg Beater Baking Pan 

Measuring Cup 



DIRECTIONS. 
Choose medium-sized tomatoes of 
uniform size, wipe clean and cut at the 
blossom end. Scoop out the pulp and 
mix an equal quantity of bread crumbs, 
the chopped onion — less onion if you 
do not care for the flavor — seasoning 
and the egg beaten. Fill the tomatoes, 
put a piece of butter on top, sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and bake in a but- 
tered pan with hot water just covering 
the bottom. Baste with melte^ butter 
mixed with a little water and bake in 
a moderately quick oven 16 to 20 
minutes. 



36 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME" RECIPE BQOK. 



Recipe 10. 



SWEET POTATOES EN CASSEROLE. 



Measure. 



Materials. 

Sweet Potatoes .... 

Butter 

Sherry 2 Tablespoonfuls 

Maple or Brown 
Sugar 2 Tablespoonfuls 



DIRECTIONS, 



Casserole 
Sauce Pan 



UTENSILS: 

Vegetable Knife 
Tablespoon 



Select medium-sized potatoes of 
uniform size. Pare and cut in halves 
lengthwise, put into the sauce pan, 
cover with salted boiling water and 
boil five minutes. Drain. Mdt the 
butter and pour into the casserole. 
Put in a layer of potatoes, sprinkle 

lightly with salt, bits of butter and 

plenty of grated maple or brown sugar. 
Thep another layer of potatoes and so continue until all are used. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of water and the same of sherry. Gover and set in a moderate 
oven to bake for twenty or thirty minutes. When done the potatoes should 
be moist with a little thick syrup in the dish. The sherry may be omitted if 
you do not use wines. 



Recipe U. 



GLAZED SWEET POTATOES. 

DIRECTIONS. 



Materials. Measure. 

Sweet Potatoes .... 6 

Gran. Sugar Vs Cup 

Water % Cup 

Butter ..,. Vn Tablespoonful 

UTENSILS: 
Sauce Pan Baking Pan 

Measuring Cup 



Wash and pare medium-§ized po- 
tatoes, cut in halves lengthwise and 
throw at once into cold water. Have 
boiling salted water in the sauce pan; 
put in the potatoes and boil eight or 
ten minutes. Drain. Boil sugar, water 
and butter three minutes or until a 
syrup. Dip each piece of potato into 
this, put into the baking pan and bake 
15 minutes. Baste them two or three 
times with the remaining syrup. 



Recipe 12. MASHED TURNIPS. 

MattTials. Measure. T)TP'P"PTTr»MQ 

White Turnips 6 mKfcCTIONS. 

Butter 1 Tablespoon c i x £ i • 

Pepper select farm, white turnips or the 

Salt ruta-baga, a large, yellow variety. 

C''eam 1 or 2 Tablesp'fuls Wash and pare, cut in slices and throw 

UTENSILS' '"*° boiling salted water. Cook uncov- 

Stew Pan Small Wooden Spoon ^'^^^' just below the boiling point until 

Potato Ricer or Wooden Potato Masher tender. Drain and shake a moment over 

the fire until dry. Press through the 
potato ricer or mash and season with 
salt, pepper, butter and cream. Heap 



VEGETABLES. 



57 



in a vegetable dish with a dash of paprika on top and serve very hot with 
duck or mutton ; also very nice with roast pork or spare-ribs. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Roche«er, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 2. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 13. 



CREAMED CABBAGE. 



DIRECTIONS. 



Materials. Measure. 

Finply Cut Cabbage 1 Quart 

Butter 1 Tablespoonf ul 

Egg 1 

Cream % Cup 

Vinegar 14 Cup 

Pepper and Salt . . . 

UTENSILS: 
Sauce Pan Tablespoon 

Measuring Cup Slaw Cutter 



Cut hard white cabbage fine and 
stand rn cold water for an hour ; drain 
and place it in a covered kettle of 
boiling salted water for fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Drain and add the 
vinegar, salt and pepper and bring to 
the boiling point. Beat the egg with 
the cream, the melted butter and mix 
well with the cabbage. Let remain 
just a moment over the fire, remove 
to a hot dish and serve. 



Recipe 14. 

Materials. 

Head White Cabbage 

Vinegar 2 

Eggs^ 3 

Salt and Pepper . . . 
Thick Sour Cream . . % 

Sugar 1 

Sweet Green Pepper 1 



SOUR CREAM SLAW. 



Measure. 



Tablespoonfuls 



Cup 
Teaspoonful 



UTENSILS: 
Slaw Cutter Tablespoon 

Measuring Cup Teaspoon 
Sauce Pan 



The eggs may be omitted and 
with a silver fork until it is light and foamy. 



DIRECTIONS. 

Select a firm, white head of cab- 
bage and if a large one, one-half will 
be sufficient. Slice fine, cover with 
cold water for an hour, also the green 
pepper cut fin^. Drain and rub in a 
towel until dry. Put the vinegar into 
the sauce pan and when hot add the 
eggs well beaten and mixed with the 
sour cream. Stir until it thickens. 
Remove from the fire and add season- 
ing.=. Mix cabbage with this and 
serve cold, 
the remaining ingredients beaten , In 



Recipe 15. 



GREEN CORN. 



Remove the coarse outside husks of good sweet corn. Loosen the fine 
husks -next to the corn and roll it back so as to remove all the silk. Now 
roll back into place. Break or cut off the butt and put to boil in a kettle of 



5S 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



boiling water for five minutes. To be perfect the corn should be cooked as 
soon as possible after picking. One-third milk with the boiling water makes 
the corn white. 



Recipe 16. 



CORN FRITTERS. 



Materials. Measure. 

Ears of Corn 6 

Milk 1 Cup 

Flour 1 Cup 

Sugar 1 Teaspoonful 

Baking Powder 1 Teaspoonful 

Salt 



UTENSILS: 



Measuring Cup 
Measuring Spoon 
Corn Slitter 
Tablespoon 



Kettle 

Bowl 

Egg Beater 



DIRECTIONS. 



Take the corn and press out the 
pulp by running it over the corn slitter 
or score it w;ith a very, sharp knife. 
Add the yolks of the eggs and the re- 
maining ingredients, the baking powder 
sifted with the flour. Beat well and 
stir in the well-beaten whites; fry in 
deep fat in the kettle, dropping a good- 
sized teaspoonful at a time. They 
should puflf nice and round and are nice 
for lunch with maple syrup. 



Recipe 17. ESCALLOPED CORN. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Canned Corn % Can 

Milk 1 Cup Butter the baking dish and put 

Butter 1 TaBlespoonful a layer of corn in the bottom of the 

Bread Crumbs 1 Teacupful (jjgii^ ^jjen a layer of grated white bread 

•^^PP^*" crumbs, salt and a little pepper ; repeat 

UTENSILS: ""*'' ^11 is used. Dot the bits of but- 
Baking Dish Measuring Cup ter over it and pour the milk over the 
Grater Measuring Spoon whole. Bake in a quick oven about 

twenty minutes. 



Recipe 18. TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CORN. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS, 

Tomatoes (medium) 4 

Green or Canned " Use sufficient left-over corn from 

Md?Id Buti;; ■;;:;: 3 Tablespoonfuls a previous meal or canned corn to fill 

Cream a Tablespoonfuls the scooped out tomatoes from the 

Salt and Pepper stem ends of which you have cut off 

a slice or cap. Mix all the seasonings 

UTENSILS: with the corn before filling. Put on the 

Baking Pan Vegetable Knife ^aps and stand them in the buttered 

Tablespoon baking pan in a hot oven for half an 

_____ hour. Serve as one hot vegetable dish 

for dinner. Tomatoes are also nice 



VEGETABLES. 



59 



broiled or fried, either green or ripe. They must be cut rather thick, rolled 
in egg and bread crumbs and then fried, browning on both sides. 



Recipe 19. 

Materials. 

Carrots 

White Turnips . . . 

Parsley 

Hollandaise Sauce. 



CARROTS A LA HOLLANDAISE. 



Measure. 



UTENSILS: 
Potato Scoop Two Stew Pans 



DIRECTIONS. 

Clean, scrape the carrots and cut 
in dice. Throw them into boiling water 
and cook slowly until tender. Pare the 
turnips, cut a slice froij;i the stem, 
scoop out the center, leaving a cup. 
Put into plenty of unsalted boiling 
water and simmer until tender. When 

' tender lift the turnips from the water 

and drain. Drain the carrots, niix with 
the Hollandaise Sauce. Fill these in the turnip cups, garnish with parsley 
and serve. Carrots are very nice cooked with peas ; or cook plain and season 
with one tablespoonful of bytter, one of flour and a teaspoonful of Kitchen 
Bouquet. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cookinf^ Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1986^ by Mrs.. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 20. 



TOMATOES ON TOAST. 



Materials. Measure. 

Tomatoes 3 

Chopped Parsley . . . 

Cream Vz Cup i 

Milk Va Cup 

Flour 1 Tablespoonful 

Pepper and Salt ... 

Toast 

Butter 1 Tablespoonful 

Grated Onion 1 Teaspoonful 

UTENSILS: 
Baking Dish Tablespoon 

Measuring Cup , Toaster 
Vegetable Knife 



DIRECTIONS. 

Wash and cut the tomatoes in 
halves crosswise; set in a buttered 
baking pan, sprinkle with salt, pepper 
and a little finely chopped parsley ; put 
a little piece of butter on the top of 
each and bake in a moderate oven about 
half an hour. Do. not bake too long or 
they will fall to pieces: Have the toast 
ready, carefully lift one-half tomato to 
each piece. Make the sauce with the 
remaining butter, milk and cream, 
onion juice, salt and pepper in.the bak- 
ing pan and pour this over the tomatoes 
and toast. This is nice for breakfast, 
luncheon or supper. 



60 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 21. ESCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Tomatoes 6 or 8 

Butter 1 Tablespoonful g j ^ ^ , ^^^ tomatoes and 

Grated Onion 2 Tablespoonfuls . . f. , _, , 

Bread cut in slices, or if canned ones are used, 

Salt and Pepper'!!! one-half can will be necessary. Make 

, ,,_„„„,, « croutons of the bread by buttering, cut- 

UTENSILS: ^j jjj half-inch squares and toasting. 

Baking Dish Tablespoon g ^^^^ the baking dish and put a layer 

Vegetable Knife ^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^ croutons in the bottom, 

' then a layer of tojjiatoes and a little of 

all the seasoning, then another layer 
of bre^d, tomatoes, and so continue, having bread last on top, with bits of 
butter, and bake in a quick oven about half an hour. 



Recipe 22. TOMATOES DU BARRY. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Tomatoes 4 , 

Butter 1 Large TablespTl Select smooth, small tomatoes. 

Salt ....... ^ 1 Teaspoonful , wash, put into the stew pan and cover 

Pe"pper .*".".*.!!!!! ^°^" with rapidly boiling water; add salt 

Parsley !!!!!!!!!!!! and keep boiling at a gallop for about 

ten minutes or until the tomatoes are 
UTENSILS: tender, when pierced with, a fork. Re- 

Stew Pan Tablespoon move carefully with a skimmer to, a 

Skimmer Teaspoon jj^t pjatter. - With a sharp pointed 

knife cut out the little hard stem and 
cut a horizontal and vertical gash 

across the top of each. Turn or roll 
back for a little ways the outside skin and pour over and around the tomatoes, 
the butter and seasonings carefully melted by standing in hot water. Chop 
parsley very fine and sprinkle over the top of each tomato, and garnish the 
dish with nice bunches of parsley at each end. 

^ Mrs, Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes, 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 
Copyright, 1906, by Mrs, Alice Gitchell Kirk, 



Recipe 23. 



BOILED CUCUMBERS. 



Select good sized cucumbers and pare them ; cut in halves, scoop out th& 
seeds, then cut each in two crosswise. Throw these into boiling salted water 
until tender, about thirty minutes; drain. Lift into a hot serving dish and 
pour over a white sauce, seasoned with grated onion and chopped parsley. 
Hollandaise Sauce is also good with these cucumbers. 



VEGETABLES. 



61 



Recipe 24. STUFFED EGG PLANT. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Egg Plant 1 

Stale White Bread Choose a full, dark purple egg 

EngHs'h Walnuts' '. '. '. \i cZ ?'/"*• Cook in plenty of boiling water 

Butter. 1 Tablespoonful fifteen minutes. While boiling, shell 

Chopped Onion 1 Tablespoonful and chop the ■ nuts, grate the bread 

Savory % Teaspoonful crumbs and chop the onion. Wheii the 

Pepper '. ^^S plant has boiled the required time. 

Egg ..............'. 1 remove from the kettle and cut cross- 

wise in halves, and with a pointed knife 
UTENSILS: cut out the pulp about one-half inch 

Steel Spider Chopping Bowl and from the outside ; and with a spoon re- . 

Grater „Kmfe move it from the shell. Chop this fine. 

JSt'llHeater KnTMu''"'' ?"] the butter into, the spider melt. 

Sharp Knife 3.dd the onion and cook it until it is 

yellow but not brown. Then add the 

" egg plant and cook a moment, then 

the remaining ingredients-^except the 
egg — mixing all well together. When thoroughly heated remove from the 
fire and add the well-beaten egg. Stand the egg plant shells in a buttered 
pan and refill with this mixture, heaping well on the top and sprinkling with 
bread crumbs. Baste with melted butter and twice again while baking in 
a moderate oven three-quarters of an hour. This is a nice luncheon dish 
and a perfect substitute for meat. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Publislied by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rodiester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 2. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitcliell Kirk. 



JXecipe 25. STUFFED SWEET PEPPERS. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

■ Sweet Peppers 6 Cut the peppers in halves, cross- 

On?on^ ^^^* I ^"P® wise, remove the seeds and cut off the^ 

B«tt°e" '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.\ 1 Tablespoonful s^em, or leave them whole, save cutting 

Parsley 1 Tablespoonful ofif a cap. Chop the meat (this may be 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful veal, chicken or lamb) fine, also the 

Mushrooms^^.^ v Cu^ °"'°" ^"'^ mushrooms. Mix all the in- 

Water or Stock ' i.'.' ! 1 * Cup gredients together except the stock or 

water; fill the peppers and stand in a 

UTENSILS" P^"^ ^"'^ pour the hot stock or water 

p . J, ., M ti ■ ff Cuo around them, basting often. Bake 

M^at Chopper Tabhispoon slowly three-quarters of an hour. A 

Baking Pan Teaspoon nice luncheon dish. 

-Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Ya*man & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rocliester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 180S, by Mrs. AUce Gitehell Kirk. 



63 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

Recipe 26. SPINACH— BOILED AND CREAMED. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Spinach .^. % Peck t. -i j o • i -r-ir^i. i 

Butter 3 Tablespoonfuls Boiled Spinach. — Fjll the large pan 

Cream % Cup with lukewarm water and take each 

Ir^^'^j-i'-rj-i-- i Teaspoonful j-oot of spinach and dip up and down 

Ker . ! . .^f:: in the water; throw into another pan 

Triangles "of Toast! '. 4 of water and wash the same way. Trim 

off as much or as little of the root as 

UTENSILS: ypu ny.^ After the spinach has been 

MeasuringCup Large Pans - well washed throw into a heated "kettle, 

^ ^ o an er cover and stand over a very stow fire 

. for a moment until the Juices start. 

Uncover, salt, and cook in its own 
juices about 20 minutes. Draiti in a colander and serve hot. This may be 
chopped very fine if preferred. 

Creamed Spinach. — Cook as above, drain and press out the water. Chop 
fine, return it to the sauce pan, add all the seasonings and stir over the fire 
until hot. Have the eggs quartered and toast ready. Press the spinach into 
a mold or dish, then turn out onto a serving dish. Garnish with the toast 
and eggs and serve. When the spinach is chopped fine it can be pressed 
through the pastry bag and tube, or if you have any left it can be molded 
in small cups and served as a salad with mayonnaise or French dressing. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 

"Bestowed with lettuce and cool herbs." * ' 

" Salads refresh without exciting, and make people younger." 

(All measurements level. Flour sifted before measuring.) 

There was a time when it was quite necessary to-educate people to eat 
salads. While this might not have bee:n true in foreign countries it has been 
in our own. A salad is by na means a modern invention, as lettuce, cress and 
cucumbers were used by ancients for dinner salads, although the dressing was 
quite different. Nothing is more appetizing than a fresh green vegetable and 
French dressing. On account of expense and time simple salads should be 
studied. 

The vegetable must be fresh to crispness, the simple dressing perfectly 
blended and all ingredients cold. It must appeal to the eye as well as to the 
stomach. To become an expert salad maker, one must have a good idea of 
color and form, a very keen sense of taste, and a desire as well in planning 
new cobbinations. Avoid too many mixtures and the materials used should 
be harmonious ones both as to color and proper food relations. 

With lettuce, cress, endive, as the most common " greens " used in salads 
and with any simple dressitig you have a perfect dinner salad. 

Salads are not simply the " fashion " but th^y are in strict accordance with 
our well being and should find a place on every table at least once a day. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 63 

SALADS SERVED .WITH FRENCH DRESSING. 
Some Combinations. 

Lettuce — Half a tomato, chopped cucumber and green pepper. 

Lettuce — Cream cheese moulded with chopped pimentos and olives. To- 
matoes with mint chopped fine in French dressing. 

Lettuce — Moulded spinach and hard boiled eggs or beets. 

Dandeltonr— Watercress and tomatoes cut into quarters or eighths. 

Lettuce — English walnuts. 

With any succulent green vegetable and French dressing you have — if 
weH- made arid served — a perfect dinner salad. 

Thiese green or succulent vegetables contain the necessary salts for the 
blood; the lemon or vinegar, the acid; and the oil, a most wholesome and 
easily digested fat. 

The amount of oil to be used in either the mayonnaise or French dressing 
depends upon the individual taste. One person may like more oil and less of 
the acid and vice versa, hence only general rules can be given for these 
dressings. 

Recipe 1. MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Materials. Ueasure. 

Ebks 2 Yolks -D 1. ii. • • 

OHve Oil % Pint ""* the mayonnaise mixer on ice. 

Lemon Juice' !.".!!!'. 3 Table&poonfuls Separate the yolks very carefully and 

Salt % Teaspoonful put into the bowl of the mixer. Turn 

Paprika... % Teaspoonful the dasher until the yolk is slightly 

Dash of Cayenne. . . ^^^^^^ Then from the dropper add the 

UTENSILS: °^^ * 'l'"°P ^t ^ time, stirring steadily, 

Christy Mayon-, Glass Lemon until one dropperful has been used; 

naise Mixer Squeezer then a little more at a time may be 

Measuring Cup Tablespoon added until half the oil has been beaten 

Teaspoon ^ into tjje egg. Now begin to alternate 

.- with the lemon juice and oil until all 

are well blended. Put in seasonings, 
pour into a pint jar, screw on cover tightly and place in refrigerator where it 
will keep for two weeks. When ready to use it may be thinned with whipped 
cream or the white of an egg well beaten. Tarragon or plain vinegar may 
be used instead of the lemon juice if preferred. This should be made in 
five to eight minutes. A Dover egg beater may be used but it will take much 
longer. 

Parsley Mayonnaise. 
Chop and pound fine one tabJespoonful of parsley, adding £ few drops 
of lemon juice. To this add one cup of good thick mayonnaise and a tiny 
bit of the desired coloring from any good fruit coloring. Do not add any 
fruit coloring unless it is necessary as the coloring from the parsley is usually 
sufficient. If you do not happen to have lemon juice two or three drops of 
alcohol will start the juices and coloring. 

Mrs. KirWa Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfe. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

COcyrigbt, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



64 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 2. FRENCH DRESSING. 

Materials., Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Olive Oil 6 Tablespoonfuls 

Vinegar or Lemon Rub the bowl with the clove of 
Sai"".. :::::;::;:: \ ^eSprnTul"'' ganic and add a piece of ice the size 
Garlic 1 Clove of a hickory nut. Put in salt and pep- 
Paprika % Teaspoonful per, adding gradually the oil, stirring 

UTENSILS rapidly. When the salt is dissolved, 

Bowl Tablespoon ^^\^^^ ^^"^^^.'■' gradually-lemon juke 

Teaspoon °'" tarragon vinegar may be used. To 

vary this a teaspoonful of Worcester- 

shire Sauce may be added, or a few 

-drops of Kitchen Bouquet. Mint is 
excellent chopped fine in French dressing over tomatoes, or a tablespoonful 
of chopped chives or chopped parsley. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfe. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 3. COOKED SALAD DRESSING. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Sugar 4 Teaspoonfuls 

Fl"""" "u- 2 Teaspoonfuls ^j^ all the dry ingredients to- 

Cayenne Pepper ... _ ^i. j i i j j ^i • 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful gether and slowly add the vinegar. 

Mustard % Teaspoonful Heat in the double boiler and while so 

Vinegar Vz Cup doing,, beat one egg very light, then 

But^ter" : : : ::::::::;: size of Walnut P°"J" J^ seasoned vinegar onto the tgg 

with the butter. Set back over the hot 
UTENSILS: ' water and cook until it thickens, stir- 
Double Boiler Measuring Spoon ring constantly. When cold, thin a 
Egg Beater Measuring Cup little with sweet cream, beating well. 



Recipe 4. POTATO SALAD. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Potatoes 4 

Cucujnber 1 Boil the potatoes with the skins on. 

c"ve °"Garlic':;:: 1 When done drain and shake near an 

Oil 6 Tablespoonfuls open window to have them dry and 

Vinegar 3 Tablespoonfuls white. Remove the skins and cut the 

P^^ley ■• 1 Tt^l!iP°°ft,i potatoes in dice. Rub the salad bowl 

Salt 1 ieaspooniul : ... ., _ ,. ^, ^, 

Mayonnaise Dress- Y^i*" the garlic. Chop the onion very 

ing ...-. V2 Cup fine or grate, and with the potato put 

TT tr c T Q '* '"*° ^^^ bowl and poui over French 

UTENSILS: dressing made from the' salt, pepper. 

Stew Pan Potato Knife oil and vinegar. Set this in a cool 

Salad Bowl Chopping Bowi and „i-^„ f„_ „„„ i,„„_ tt„ ^i. - 

Knife place tor one hour. Have the cucum- 

ber pared and in ice water the same 
— — — length of time. Then cut it in dice and 

add to the potatoes with the mayon- 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 



65 



tiaise. Sprinkle with parsley chopped very Bne. 
or lettuce and beets cut in fancy $hapes. 



Garnish also with parsley 



Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes, 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfe. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

C(4>yright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 5. THANKSGIVING SALAD. 

DIRECTIONS. 

Materials. Measure. 

^^. Cabbage 1 Trim and wash the white cabbage, 

Mayonnaise *or '^"t in quarters and slice very thin, 

cooked salad Throw into ice water and let stand for 

dressing — . — two hours. Do the same with the 

S-w^et Green celery, adding a slice of lemon to ekch. 

Celenr**." .!!!!!!!!! There should be one-half as much 

Small Pickles ...... 2 celery as cabbage. Trim and wash the 

Olives 2 ' head of red cabbage and carefully re- 

?t"'*y •■• J ?*°"»°<"'i" move the center, turning the outside 

(.hives 1 1 abiespooniui , j. j j • r t 

leaves out and down m as graceful 

UTENSILS: lines as possible. Chop that which was 

Shanj) Vegetable Mayonnaise Mixer taken from the center and put in ice 

Knife Chopping Bowl and water. Make the mayonnaise either 

Large Bowl Knife ^jth qH or a cooked dressing, but 

whichever is used, add to each pint a 

teaspoonful of mustard. When ready 

to use, drain and dry the cabbage and celery in a towel; shred the peppers 

and mix white cabbage, celery and peppers well together with the mayonnaise 

dressing. Have draining the red cabbage, shell and fill with this mixture, 

leaving a well large enough to hold the red cabbage, which is mixed with a 

cup of the mayonnaise to which has been added the olives, pickles, parsley 

and chives chopped fine. Fill the well with this red mixture and garnish 

with spoonfuls topped with a whole caper. Set the whole on a plate covered 

with a doily with hearts of lettuce to be used each serving, and send tovthe 

table. 



Recipe 6. CHICKEN SALAD. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

One Chicken 4% Cups 

SyS^naise ■.:::::;: ^ Sd«ct a good plump fowl, clean 

Shelled Pecans % Cup and disjoint and put on to cook m boil- 

Hard Boiled Eggs.. ing water; boil five minutes and then 

Parsley or Celery simmer for two or three hours with 

Salt and Pkprika::: one bay leaf, a dozen cloves and a 

small onion. Remove the skin and 
UTENSILS: , with the shears cut the meat in half- 

Sharp Kitchen Sharp Knife jnch cubes or pieces and an equal 

Potato Ricer Salad Bowl ^^^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^ j^^^^^. j^^^j^^^ 

Stood in ice water and then wiped dry. 
. Marinate with a French dressing (Re- 

cipe 2, under Salads). Just before 
a-* 



66 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK 



serving, drain, mix welLwith mayonnaise dressing (Recipe 1, under Salads), 
to which has been added one-third whipped cream. Now fold in the nuts 
without breaking. Pile in a salad dish, garnish with the hard boiled eggs 
forced through the potato ricer, alternating with rows of white and yellow 
of egg and capers, with here and there parsley or celery tips to finish the 
garnish. Lettuce may be used but it gives a much stiffer appearance. 

Mrs.. Kirk's Card -Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawmao & Erbe Mfg. Co.. Kocbester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 2.-p Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitcbell Kirk. 



Recipe 7. SALAD A LA KIRK. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Cucumber 1 

J^f"""o-;:: v r„„ Have ready one-half cup of stiff 

tartar bauce % Cup . ■., ., ,.•.• r r 

Pimentos mayonnaise, with the addition of four 

Parsley olives, one tablespoonful of chopped 

Capers parsley, one teaspoonful of capers, two 

TTTii-MeTTs. ^"^^^^ gherkins all chopped fine and 
t-, 0,0,^ V r with one teaspoonful of grated onion 
Vegetable Sheer Sharp Knife ^dded to the mayonnaise you will have 
Tartar sauce. Peel and slice the cu- 
cumber lengthwise and cut each half in 
two, crosswise. Notch each end with the slicer and scoop out each center. 
Lay on a leaf of watercress. 

Fill w'ith Tartar sauce and lay diagonal finely cut strips of the pimentos 
across the top, placing between each strip at regular intervals a caper. If 
the lettuce 'is used a touch of parsley at'each end of the cucumber brings 
out the necessarv color. 



Recipe 8. MAY SALAD. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Potatoes 1 Pint 

Fresh Shrimps — 1 Pint Pare and cut in dice sufficient po ■ 

Stock — tatoes to make a good large pint and 

Cucumber pour over sufficient boiling stock or 

Hard Boiled Eggs. . consomme and cook until tender; drain. 

Mayonnaise .,. marinate with French dressing and 

Chopped Chives ... 1 Teaspoonful cool. Shell the shrimp and marinate 

Lemon 1 in lemon juice for one hour. Unite 

Parsley or Lettuce. the shrimps, after draining, with the 

potatoes and mix well with the mayon- 
naise. Heap in a mound on a glass 

UTENSILS: dish, mask with mayonnaise and chives 

Stew Pan Lattice Vegetable sprinkled over the top. Garnish with 

B , , cf ^"^^^ °' *"^ cucumber latticed, and 

"°^' ^'■"'" fancy cuts of the hard boiled eggs, with 

Measurmg Cup Mayonnaise Mixer parsley arranged at either end in large 

Tablespoon bunches. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 



6T 



Recipe 9. JUNE 13th SALAD. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Lemon Jelly 1 Pint ■" 

Pineljple'" 1 fe* ^^^^ ^^^ '^"'°" j^"^ ^^°"^ ^"^ 

Majronnaise !.!!.!!. % Cup good recipe in your cook book or 

KttSw*^ ^^^^*" ■■■ ^ *^"** ^'■°'" ^"■^- ^^^^'^ ^^'■^ ^^^^"^ Cooking 

Recipes. 
UTENSILS: y^^^ tjig ^gld in cold water and 

Open Mold Lemon Squeezer brush very lightly with olive oil. Pour 

Colander Measurmg- Cup . ,,.,., 

Cream Whip m the lemon jelly and set in the refng- 

erator to harden. Put the berries into 

the colander, wash and drain thor- 
oughly. Stem the berries and set in 
a cold place. Shred a fresh pineapple, drain well and chill. Whip the cream 
and mix carefully with the mayonnaise and then with a silver or wooden 
fork unite with the berries and pineapple. Turn the mold of lemon jelly 
onto a pretty dish, fill the center with the fruit mixture, garnish with the 
lettuce and heap strawberries around with spoonfuls of whipped cream, or 
cream mayonnaise. Serve at once. This may be served at the close of a 
luncheon with very thin bread and butter. 



Recipe 10. TOMATO JELLY. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Granulated Gelatine % Box 

TomaSeT.::;::::: %SS cover the gelatine with a half 

Celery 1 Stalk cup of cold water; soak half an hour. 

Omen ^*!*'.". ...!.!! ! 1 Slice ' ^"t ^"t° ^ ^*^w pan tomatoes, celery. 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful bay leaves and onion. Bring to the 

Ta^ago't'vinegaV. ". '. 1 xtblel^oonful boiling point and simmer gently fifteen 

Paprika Vs Teaspoonful minutes. Add the gelatine and strain 

Mayonnaise through a fine sieve; put into this 

UTENSILS: lemon juice, tarragon vinegar and pap- 
Measuring Cup Stew Pan f^g^ X„rn i„to a mold or molds and 
Knife Lemon Squeezer , • , . , ^ c i ^ 
Teaspoon Tablespoon stand astde to harden. Serve on let- 
tuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing, 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking RecipeSL 

Published by Yawijian S; Erbe Mfe, Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, IdoS, by Wca, Alice Gitchell Kitk. 



68 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

Recipe 11. TOMATO CROWN SALAD. 

Materials. Ueasure. DIRECTIONS. 
Tomato Jelly (Re- 
cipe 10) Make the tomato jelly recipe and 

ApplM '".'.'".".'.'.'.'. 1 Cup PO""" *"t° ^" °P^" '"°'*^- '^"'■" °"* °" 

Lemori !!..!.!.!'.!! 1 a round glass salad plate and garnish 

Cream % Cup with the delicate green and white 

Mayonnaise Vi Cup leaves of celery. Quarter, core and 

Capers !!!!!.!!. 1 P*^' apples sufficient when cut in dice 

to make one cupful. Rub the quarters 
UTENSILS: with sliced lemon to prevent discolora* 
Measuring Cup Knife tion. Cut with shears the same amount 
Glass Salad Plate Open Mold of tender white celery. Unite these 
Silver Fork Shears two with one-half cup of mayonnaise 
(us;e lemon in making this) and one- 
half cup of cream, measure before whip- 
ping. Mix gently all together with a silver fork and pour into the center of 
the jelly mold, heaping high, and garnish with nuts or capers. This is not 
only a very attractive salad, but a delicious one as well, and particularly 
suited for supper, luncheons and receptions. 

' Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Pablished by Yawman & Erbe MfK. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 
Copyrieht, 1006, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



DESSERTS. 

(Including P,ies, Sho^t Cakes, Tarts, Fruit Whips, Fruit Cups, Jellied 
Fruits, Puddings, Ice Creams and Sherbets.) 



"And if the dish contentmfent brings. 
You'll dine with me again." 

(All measurements level. Flour sifted before measuring.) 

In these days, of correct and careful living the dessert is the smallest part 
of the meal. It is Ihe final sweet at either lunch or dinner. But the success or 
failure of an entire dinner very largely rests upon the careful selection and 
preparation of this last course. 

Heavy desserts should be avoided when the meat course has been par' 
ticnlarly rich and heavy. Desserts should be planned that do not contain the 
same elements as found in the meat. For instance, in a roast pork dinner do 
not serve suet pudding, or in a boiled ham dinner do not serve -mince pie, or 
in a roast beef dinner do not serve a custard rich in eggs, as- in all of these 
your dinner will be unbalanced. Substitute the light whipped cream desserts, 
fruits or cheese and wafers. 

With a vegetable dinner serve desserts rich in milk and eggs. It may 
all be summed up in a few words. A dessert must harmonize with the dinner. 
It is the beginning and the end which we remember and the dessert should be 
in perfect keeping with the food which has preceded it at the meal. Iced 



DESSERTS. 69 

watermelon and very cold desserts should be indulged in very sparingly by 
most people when they follow a hearty dinner. Nothing, however, shows the 
extreme dainty cooking, and thought as does the dessert. This is often pre- 
pared by the housekeeper's own hands and everyone is eager for new ways of 
preparing attractive and delicious dishes. 

Many desserts may be made in the morning and set in a cool place and are 
ready for use when desired. Desserts to be moulded should receive careful 
attention to have perfect success. Wet the mold in cold water before using 
and when ready to remove, dip for an instant into hot water. Lay the dish 
you wish to serve it on over the mold, invert, and it will come out more easily 
than by wiping with a warm cloth as the heat is uniform on the mold and' 
leaves no chance for it to stick. 

Frozen desserts are very satisfactory when made at home and the grow- 
ing popularity for many frozen desserts is due largely to the simplicity of the 
present make of ice cream freezers. 

There are large ones and small ones and those specially nice for flat or 
small family use where the fteezer can be set in the kitchen sink. Use an ice 
chipper and shave the ice into a pail, using one-third coarse rock salt and two- 
thirds ice and mix well together. Have the freezer can perfectly clean and 
cold. Put the cream mixture into it, adjust all the other parts and pack closely 
the ice and salt mixture around the can and over the top. Turn the crank 
steadily, but not too fast, until it is frozen to the desired consistency. Wit)e 
the top of the can to prevent any salty water from getting into it. Remove 
the dasher, scrape off all the cream quickly, pack down evenly and re-cover, 
using a clean piece of muslin for this and a cork to put into the cover. 

Pour off the water from the melted ice and re-pack with ice clear over the 
very top ; cover with paper, burlap or carpet and stand aside two hours to 
ripen. The best ice creams are made only from a good qfiality of cream. 
Scald half of the cream wfth the sugar, cool and add the flavoring and the re- 
maining cream and freeze. If fruits are to be used, mash and add after the 
cream is frozen. \ 

Ices of all kinds should be frozen slowly. In making sherbets turn the 
freezer very rapidly and a meringue of the white of one egg and one table- 
spoonful of sugar may be added after it is frozen. 

Recipe 1. PLAIN PASTRY. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Pastry Flour 3 Cups 

Lard ^ Cup Have all materials cold, including 

SaTL::;::;:::::: % T^aspoonful the bowl in which the pastry is to be 

Sugar 1 Teaspoonful mixed. Measure the dry mgredients 

CoitJ Water ... . into the flour sifter and sift into the 

bowl. Measure the shortening and 

UTENSILS: with the pastry cutter or knife^ut 

Pastry Board Rolling Pin this well into the flour. Do not put 

Flour Sifter Measuring Cup the hands into it, as the main thing in 

Ky Cutter or Kni^"^"""* ^"°" P^st^y is tO keep it cold and it is the 

expansion of this cold air in the oven 

■ when baking that makes the pastry 

tight and flaky. Add cold water a 



70 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



little at a time and as mixed push to one side ; add more and do the same, 
until water has been added sufficient to take up the dryness and no more. 
Now bring all togetljer in one mass, cover and set in a cold place two or 
three hours, if possible, as the crust is then much easier to handle and more 
flaky when baked. This recipe will answer for all pies. 



Recipe 2. RHUBARB PIE. 

(Also Fresh Fruit Pies.) 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Rhubarb 3 Cups 

|,"K" ^ *-'"P Select fresh, young rhubarb and do 

Fltour .!.!!..!!!!!!! l Tablespoonful "°t P^*' '* but wash and cut in small 
Lemon juice ...... 1 Tablespoonful pieces. Mix flour and sugar well to- 

Butter 1 Teaspoonful gether, then the egg, lemon juice and 

the given amount of rhubarb. Have 

UTENSILS: pastry made the day previous, roll and 

-Measuring Cup Pastry Bo^rd cover the pie pan. Pour in the rhu- 

Te s"oon'" T'abkroon '^^'"^ mixture, break the butter in bits 

^easpoon Perforat°ed"pie Tin o^er this; roll the upper crust; brush 

the low«r edg'e with cold water, put 

on the cover, press the edges together 

and then loosen both from the edge of 
the pan. Then with the expansibn in the baking the edges stay together 
and no juices are lost. Brush over with cream and bake in a quick oven 
35 minutes. 

Cherry, currant and other fresh fruit pits may be made in this way. 



Recipe 3. CUSTARD PIE. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Milk 3 Cups 

Eggs 3 . Break the eggs into the bowl and 

Sugar 4 Tablespoonfuls beat without separating until light. 

Salt 1 Pinch gradually adding the sugar then the 

Nutmeg rnilk. Have the pastry on the pie pan 

and pour in the custard- grate some 
UTENSILS- nutmeg over the top and bake in a 

moderate oven about 25 minutes. Try 
Egg Beater Measuring Cup in the center with a teaspoon handle; 

Tablespojon Bowl if it comes out dry it is done. If it 

Pie Pan bakes too long or too fast it will be 

■watery. 



DESSERTS. 



71 



Recipe 4. LEMON PIE. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Hot Water 1 Cup i 

Bread Crumbs, pour the hot water over the bread 

white and fine % Cup i ^ , ,, ,^ i j 

Sugar % Cup crumbs, add the salt, sugar, lemon, and 

Juice and Graced yolks well beaten. Pour into pie crust 

Rind of Lemon.. 1 j u t • 4. ^ u ^ ^-i 

Irggs 3 and bake in not too hot an oven until 

Salt Finch done. Beat whites stiff and add two 

UTENSILS' tablespoonfuls sugar and when the pie 

Egg Beater Measuring Cup is COol pipe roughly over the top ^nd 

Spoon - B»owl brown in a cool oven, or the whites 

Perforated Pie Pan ^^^ ^^ ^^jj ^^^^^^ ^^^ mixed with 

the other ingredients and baked. 



Recipe 5. LEMON JELLY. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Grafl. Gelatine 1 Box , 

Large Legions — 3, Cover the gelatine with the cold 

Boding Water 1 Quart . j u c^ aj a.i. 

Cold Water 1 Pint water and when soft add the sugar, 

Sugar 1 Cup boiling water and the grated rind and 

UTENSILS: juice of the lemons. Let stand until 

Two Bowls Lemon Squeezer cool and strain through a double cheese 

Cheese Cloth Mold cloth bag and turn into a m(6ld. Serve 

plain, or with whippedf cream and 
■ strawberries, bananas or other fresh 

fruit mixed carefully with the cream. 

A bunch of grapes and other fruits 
molded in the jelly, dates, figs (chopped) or nuts of all kinds, may be 
added to vary the desssert. Orange baskets partly filled with lemon jelly 
and set aside to harden and the remaining half of the jelly colored with a 
little fruit coloring molded ajid cut in cubes; again, make the lemon Jelly 
and flavor a little of it with orange extract arid color a delicate orange virith 
fruit coloring. Select a fancy open mold and pour the orange jelly into the 
lower, fancy raised portion. Let set and add the remaining jelly. Turn out 
and fill the center with sliced oranges and cocoanut. Garnish the edge with 
sections of oranges apd a spoonful of whipped cream and fruit over the top 
makes a desirable change. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Pufatished by Yawman & ErbeJI*l5. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

C^yright, 1006, by Mr«. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



72 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 6. STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Pastry Flour 3 Cups 

|«8" 2 Tablespoonfuls ^j^ the dry ingredients and ^ft 

Butter .!.!!..!.!!.! % Cup ^°^^ °^ fi'^^ times, then work in the 

Baking Powder .1.! 4 Teaspoonfuls shortening with the mixing fork. Beat 

Salt % Teaspoonful the egg well and sufficient milk to 

^'''' ^ ^"P make the dough so that it can be 

""*™^^ lightly rolled on the board. Put in 

UTENSILS.* round buttered tins and shape to fit 

Bowl Measuring Cup the pan. Bake in a hot oven. Split 

Teaspoon Bread Board the cake and cover with strawberries, 

Mixing Fork or Rolling Pin which have been well covered with 

Pastry Cutter powdered sugar, standing in a warm 

place. Use the pastry bag and tube 

for arranging the whipped cream over 

the top. A large biscuit cutter may be used and made into individual short 
cakes which are more easily served. 



Recipe 7. FRUIT WHIPS, 

Materials. Measure. 

Raspberries 1% Cups 

Powdered Sugar . . . iV* Cups' 

White of Egg 1 

Lemon Juice 1 Tablespoonful 

UTENSILS: 

Whip Churn Tablespoon 

Measuring Cup 



DIRECTIONS. 



ated fruits and is a delicious dessert 
serve generously six or eight people. 



Put all of the ingredients into the 
whip churn at once. Cover and whip 
until stiff enough to stand alone, which 
will take from ten to twenty minutes. 
The colder everything is the less time 
it will take to whip. This recipe will 
answer for strawberries, prunes, 
peaches or any of the cooked evapor- 
alone or over sponge cake. This will 



Recipe 8. MARSHMALLOW PUDDING. 

«rt.%t**'"f*fe- . Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Whites of Eggs ... 4 

Gelatine 1 Tablespoonful r, , ., ... .— , . 

Gran. Sugar 1 Cup Beat the whites to a stiff froth. 

Vanilla 1 Teaspoonful Soften the gelatine in a very little cold 

Marshmallows water, to cover, and add one-half cup 

^°'°""8* of boiling water. Add this to the 

UTENSILS: beaten whites stirring constantly and 

Egg Beater Bowl then the sugar a little at a time. Flavor. 

Measuring Cup Vegetable Knife Divide this into three parts, color a 

Mold or Baking Pan ^^ry delicate pink, a pale green and 

leave the otiier white. Place a piece of 

oiled paper in the bottom of the mold, 
arrange a few sliced marischino cherries on this, carefully turn in the white 
mixture, sprinkle over this chopped pecan nuts and sliced cherries. Ther 
the pink layer with sprinkling of nuts and cherries and last the green mix 



DESSERTS. 



7a 



ture. Set in a cold place to get very cold. Turn out on a dish, gamislj with 
marshmallows, cherries and whipped cream. These may be made in in- 
dividual molds and small cups will answer very well for these molds. 



Recipe 9. RICE 

Materials. Measure. 

Milk 1 Quart 

Rice % Cup 

Salt % Teaspoonful 

Sugar % Cup 

Cinnamon or Nut- 
meg flavoring .... 
\ 

UTENSILS: 
Measuring Cup Double Boiler 

Measuring Spoon Tablespoon 
Pudding Dish 



PUDDING. 



DIRECTIONS. 



All measurements level unless 



Wash the rice in several waters. 
Heat the milk and sugar in a double 
boiler, stirring until the sugar is dis- 
solved. Add all the remaining ingred- 
ients and stir three or four times for 
half an hour. Now turn into the but- 
tered pudding dish and bake in a very 
slow oven three hours. Raisins, dates 
or figs may be added if desired. This 
pudding should not be dry. but be of a 
creamy consistency, 
otherwise stated. 



Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooktosf Recipes. 

PuHished by Yawtnan & Erbe Mtg. Co.. Hochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 2. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs., Alice Gltchell Kirk. 



Recipe 10. PLUM PUDDiNG. 

Materials. Measure. Weigbt. DIRECTIONS. 
Seeded Raisins .... % lb. 

English Currants... V* lb. (j^op half the raisins and add to 

Blanched Almonds.. % lb. them the currants, chopped walnuts 

Candied Lemon Peel J4 lb, and almonds, citron, orange and lenion 

Candied Orange Peel % lb. ped shredded fine. Now add all the 

Candied Citron — % lb. remaining ingredients except eggs and 

Walnut Meats % lb. cream and mix Well together. Cover 

Suet J^ lb. closely and let stand several days, at 

Sifted Bread Crumbs % lb. least 24 hours. Add the beaten eggs 

Gran. Sugar 1 Cup and cream and pack in well-buttered 

Cream (scant) % Cup molds, cover tightly and steam six 

Eggs 4 hours. Put away in a cool, dry place 

Cinnamon 1 Teaspoonful and when ready to use steam at least 

Salt ^^ Teaspoonful two hours, and longer will do no harm. 

Cloves % Teaspoonful gerve with hard sauce or ice cream. 

Nutmeg - In blanching the almonds either 

Brandy 1 Wine-glass po^r cold water over them for several 

Fruit Juice or Wine 1 Wine-glass hours to remove the skins or put over 

UTENSILS: the fire with cold water, bring just 

Food Chopper Mixing Bowl to the boiling point, remove the skins 

Tffspo^n" Measuring Cup and dry the almonds off quickly in the 

Scales Steamer oven. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

PuWisbed by Yawman & Erbe Mfor. Co., Rochester, JJ. Y. 

Supplemental Set No, 6. Copyright, 1909, by Mrs. Alice Gltdiell Kirk. 



74 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

Recipe 11. MINCE MEAT. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. 

Lean Boiled Beef... 3 lbs. 

Suet l^lbs. 

Chopped Apples ... 3 Quarts DIRECTIONS. 

Stoned Raisins 1 Quart 

Citroen*!..".".::".!!.". ^ %lb. Chop the meat and suet fine and 

Molasses 1 Cup shred the citron. Mix all the dry in- 

Juice °f Lem"on's' ! l ! I gredients together, then the liquids (ex- 

Grated rind of one cept the sherry and the brandy). Mix 

Nutmeg ........... 1 all well together and bring slowly to 

Powdered Mace .... 1 Teaspoonful the boiling point: boil five minutes. 

Salt 1 Table^poonful r ^.i. n a a a t. 

Brown Sugar 3 Cups or Wi. Pints Remove from the fire and add sherry 

Cider 2 Cups and brandy (if you use it) and seal in 

Sherry.... 1 Cup . ^,/ \,/ , 

Brandy as desired or jars. This Will make seven quart jars 

Sweet Pickle and cost about one dollar and a quarter. 

UTENSILS: ^^ measurements level unless 

Measuring Cup Scales Otherwise stated. 

Grater Lemon Squeezer 

Sharp Knife Measuring Spoons 

Jars Kettle 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cool'ing Recipes. 

PuhlisHed by Yawman & Erhe Mfgr Co.. Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 2. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 12. PUMPKIN PIE. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Pumpkin 

Rich Milk 1% Cups Cut up the pumpkin without peel- 

^Ixt^... '.'.'. '.'.'.'.'.'. '.'.'. 1 * Teaspoonful '"? and put into the colander; cover 

Butter 1 Teaspoonful and place in the steam cooker and 

Cinnamon 1 Teaspoonful , steam until tender. Put through the 

G'n&er 1 Teaspoonfnr colander, using the wooden masher, 

Molasses 1 Tablespoonful, j r 4. _ j i. ir 

gyg^j _ % Cup and for -every two and one-half cups 

JSggs 3 of pulp use the above proportions, beat- 
Pastry for a pies... ing the eggs and melting the butter. 

UTFNSILS- ' ^'"^ *^^ P^^ P^"^ ^'^'^ ^°°^ pastry. 

ux£.i>ioxi^B. Break an egg in one pan, whirl it 

Colfnd?r°"' MeTuring Cup ^^^^^\ ""til the white of the ^^^ has 

Measuring Spoon Two Pie Pans covered the pastry. Pour the egg into 

Board, Rolling Pin Flour Sifter the other pan and repeat. The ^%% 

Pastry Cutter Potato Masher ^gy be used in this way and also 

used for the filling. Now fill full with 

the pumpkin mixture and bake in a 

moderate oven forty-five minutes or until done. Spoonfuls of whipped cream 



DESSERTS. 



?5 



piped around just inside the crust and in the center, adds both to the look? 
and to the taste. 

Cranberry jelly is fine poured over the top. 



Recipe 13. VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Cream 1 Quart 

Vinma^'!^ ! .::::::: ^ Tea%oo„fuls P^^-- ^^^^ '^^ "^^"^ ^"^ an of the 

sugar into the double boiler and place 

over the fire, stir only until the sugar 

UTENSILS: jg dissolved and the cream hot. Cool 

Ice Cream Freezer Cork and piece of „„ j „ j j 4.i,_ •_• _ j o 

Double Boiler Cheese Cloth ^".^ ^^^ *"« remainmg cream and flav- 

Measuring Cup Ice Chipper ^ oring and it is ready to freeze. In 

easunng poon ^j^^ meantime see that the ice cream 

' freezer is perfectly clean, parts all 

together and rieady for use. Place the 

dasher in the center of the can and pour 

in the prepared cream mixture. Do this always, except in fruit mixtures; 

they should never go in until the cream is almost frozen hard. Replace 

the can top and gear frame; then fill the space around the can in the 

tub with shaved ice and salt, one-third rock salt and two-thirds ice, which 

have been well mixed together and not put around in layers as it is often 

done. Pile clear up over the top and turn, not too rapidly but steadily until 

the mixture begins to freeze, keeping the motion steady and even. When 

frozen remove the dasher, put on the cover with the cork and cheese cloth 

inserted. Drain, repack with shaved ice very full, cover with heavy paper 

or burlap and let ripen for two hours. To make strawber^ ice cream add 

another cup of sugar, quart of berries pressed through the colander and add 

as directed above. 



Recipe 14. MAPLE ICE CREAM. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Eggs 2 

Maple Syrup % Cup ^y^U^^/f^^ °u ?^ ^¥^ ""*" 

J, _. very light; add the hot maple syrup 

^^''^ ^* ^"P and the milk, stir and cook over the 

Cream 1% Cups jjo^ water until the mixture thickens. 

Then pour over the stiffly beaten 

whites of the eggs and cool. When 

UTENSILS: (.qIj j^jj j-jjg cream, pour into a freezer 

Ice Cream Freezer Wooden Spoon and freeze. A cup of Engltsh walnuts 

Measuring Cup Egg Beater or pecans broken fine are a nice change. 



?6 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 15. LEMON CREAM SHERBET. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Sugiir 1% Cups 

Lemons 3 

Milk 2 Cups 

Cream 3 Cups 

Whites of Eggs 2 

Pul. Sugar 2 Tablespoonfuls 



UTENSILS: 
Tablespoon Spatula 

Double Boiler Measuring Spoon 



Put the milk and sugar into the 
double boiler and stir until the sugar 
is dissolved and heated. Cool and add 
the cream and gradually the lemon 
juice. Turn into the freezer and freeze, 
turning slowly to have it fine grained. 
Beat the whites of the eggs until stifif, 
adding sugar. Pour this into the 
freezer, turn the dasher rapidly for a 
few minutes, re-pack and set aside to 
ripen. 



Recipe 16. 



MAPLE MOUSSE. 



Materials. 

Hot Maple Syrup 

Double Cream 1 Pint 

Eggs 4 



Measure. 

1 Cup 



DIRECTIONS. 



UTENSILS: 

Double Boiler Bowl 

Egg Beater Cream. Whip 

Mold Ice Chipper 

Pail Ice 

Salt 



Heat the syrup in the double boiler. 
Beat the eggs until well mixed and 
slowly pour the hot syrup over them. 
Put back over the fire into the double 
boiler and cook until the mixture thick- 
ens, stirring carefully. Cool and add 
the crekm which has been beaten stiff, 
fold this in gently but thoroughly. 
^ Pour this into a mold and pack as pre- 

viously directed, in ice and salt, being 
sure to bind the cover with a strip of muslin dipped in butter or parafEne. 
Let stand three hours. Pineapple, oranges, raspberries, strawberries, coffefe 
and chocolate all may be used in making these delicious parfaits or mousse, 
using a tablespoon of gelatine to a quart of cream and pulp from a box of 
berries. 

All measurements level unless otherwise stated. 

Mrs. Kirlc's Card Index Cookinsr Recipes. 

Published bv Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co.. Rochester, N. Y. 

Srupplemental Set No. 2. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gltchell Kirk. 



Recipe 17. 



BAKED PEACHES AND PEARS. 



Baked pfeaches are excellent cither for breakfast or as a dessert at lunch 
or dinner. Select good sized freestones, pare, cut them in halves and remove^ 
the stones. Place a single layer in a baking dish, hollow side uppermost. Into, 
each half put half a teaspoon^ of butter and the same amount of sugar, or a 
little more, if the family like sweets. Sprinkle nutmeg generously over the 
whole, and bake twenty to thirty minutes; when soft the peaches are done. 
Serve hot. 



DESSERTS. 



77 



Recipe 18. PEACH TART. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS 

Heavy Cre^m 1 Pint 

Sugar % Cup Bake a sponge cake in a round or 

Vanilla 1 Teaspoonful square pan. Remove the center of the 

Lemon Juice 1 Tablespoonful cake, leaving a rim about an inch wide 

Peaches and also a wall and bottom about an 

inch thick. Whip the cream, sugar 

UTENSIL-S: and flavoring until stiff and solid. 

Whip Churn Cake Pan Fill the cake and set in a cool place. 

Sharp Knife When ready to serve garnish with 

sliced peaches and finely chopped pis- 
tachio nuts. 



Recipe 19. GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Grahamtkrur 1% Cu^"' DIRECTIONS. 

Porto Rico Molasses % Cup 

Milk % Cup ^Soften the butter but do not melt. 

Kgg^^. ///.'.'.'.'.'.'..'.'.'. 1 ^^^^ ""ti^ creamy and add molasses. 

Soda % Teaspoonful milk, well-beatfen egg and all dry in- 

ileded 'Raisins ".'.'.'. 1 TealpooSfSl gredients well mixed and sifted and the 
Cinnamon % Teaspoonful raisins cut in two. Turn into a well- 
Cloves % Teaspoonful . ^^ . . . . ^ 

UTENSILS: buttered mold, cover and steam two 

Measuring Cup Measuring Spoon anj one-half hours. 

Egg Beater Bowls -. . ^ -it. i 

Steamer Serve hot with lemon sauce. 



Recipe 20. MARLBORO TARTS. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Tart Apples 6 

Sugar Jf £"P Quarter and stew the apples, put 

Melted Butter .... % Cup through the sieve and to each cupful 

Juice and Rmd oi r ^t • t ^t. a.- » • 

Lemon °' this pulp use the proportions given 

Milk % Cup ' of all seasoning. Beat the whites of 

Eggs 2 tfig gggs stiff and add at the last mo- 
Nutmeg ment. Have a pie pan lined with paste 

UTENSILS: and fill this with the apple mixture. 

Measuring Cup S.^eve^ ^^^^^^^^ Bake in a moderately quick oven about 

Pie Pan ' twenty-five mmutes. 



78 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

Recipe 21. LEMON CHEESE CAKES. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Cottage Cheese .... 1% Cups 

Siigar H Cup Press the cheese through the po- 

gS Rind a^id- • • ' Ta&espoonfuls ^^^^ ^.^^^ ^^^ ^„ ,^^ ingredients to 

Juice of Lemon... 1 it, with the eggS beaten very hght. 

Eggs 3 Mix thoroughly and liqe patty pans 

Currants and Sliced ^jth fjch pastry and fill with the mix- 

VaniHa".".! ■.;;!;.■■.'.! 1 Teaspoonful t"re. Bake about 15 minutes or until 

UTENSILS' ^^^ pastry is well baked and the mix- 

T, . . n- HT • r- ture is thickened. Or the fruit, may be 

Tablespoon" TeTspoon" "^"^ omitted and the patties covered with 

Lemon Squeezer - Bar de Due currants. 



Redpe 22. PUMPKIN PIE. 

Materials. Measure. 'nTr>i7riTT/-\XTe 

Pumpkin 1% Cups DIRECTIONS. 

Sugar % Cup ^ , , , . ., , 

Cinnamon 1 Teaspoonful Cook the pumpkm until drj and 

siffZ .::: : : : : : : : : : % Tras^ooSul P"t through a coarse slev^. Then add 

Eggs 3 the ingredients in the order given, beat- 

criam" ' ! ! ! .' ! ! ! ! ! ! ." ! '^ cUp* '"^ *^^ ^^^^ ^"^ ^^^'^^ '^^*- ^'"^ ^ 

Plain Paste deep pie pan with good rich paste and 

„ „ . UTENSILS: fill ^jth the pumpkin and bake in rather 

Pastry Board Measuniig Cup , ^ - ^^r .i , r 

Rolling Pin Egg Beater not oven. Wrap the edge of pastry 

Kettle MieasurWg Spoon ^jth wet cloth to ke^ep from burning 

Coarse Sieve Mixing Bowl , , ^ ^ 

Pie Pan the edges 



Recipe 23. APPLE RICE PUDDING. 

Materials. Meaijure. DIRECTIONS. 

Rice % Cup 

l^f^' 3^^ g^P Wash the rice well and add slowly" 

Eggs .............. s to one quart of boiling water and boil 

Vanilla"...!.!..... % TeaspoonfuT hard for fifteen minutes. Drain and 

Tart Apples 6 blanch with cold water. Mix the rtiilk, 

J*''y • sugar and beaten yolks with flavoring. 

Wipe the apples and core, being care- 

UTENSILS: ful not to go clear through. Arrange 

Apple Corer Baking Pan in a slightly buttered baking dish and 

Measurring Cup Teaspoon pour the rice mixture all around the 

Sauce Pan Egg Beater ^ppj^g g^^^ „„^j, ^^^ pudding is set 

and the apples are done in not too hot 
an oven. When cold fill the apples 
with jelly and the whites whipped stiff with three tablespoonfuls of sugar 
beaten with them and piled over the top. Serve with cream. 



DESSERTS. 



r9 



Recipe 24. APPLE TAPIOCA. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Instantaneous Tap- 
ioca % Cup , , ^v ,. • J i ■ .. 

Boiling Water 2 Cups ,^ Measure the tapioca and put into 

Sugar % Cup *"* "°^ ^'*" sufficient cold water to 

Lemon Juice cover ; it will soften in a minute. Put 

Salt '.'.'.'.'.'.'. 1^ Teaspoonful ^"'° ^^e -double boiler, add foiling 

Sour Apples 5 * - water and salt, stfr and cook • tlfftil 

Nutmeg ° " clear. Core and pare the apples, roll- 

ing them in lemon juice. Set them in 
a buttered baking, dish, fill the centers 
UTENSILS' Vfith sugar, a small piece of butter and 

a little nutmeg. Pour the tapioca over 
Sowl Double BoUer .the whole and bake in a moderate oven 

Apple Corer Baking Dish until the apples are tender. Serve with 

Vegetable Knife Wooden Spoon sugar and cream. 



Recipe 25. 



PRUNE FLUFF. 



Materials. Measure. Weight. 

Large Prunes % lb. 

Whites of Eggs ... 4 

Powdered Sugar ... % Cup 

Lemon Juice 1 Tablespoonful 



DIRECTIONS. 



UTENSILS: 
Double Boiler Bowl 

Whip Churn or Colander 
Egg Beater 



Wash and soak the prunes over 
night in cold water. The next morn- 
ing put them into the double boiler 
over the fire and cook A^y slowly. 



When done remove the prunes and 

boil* the juice down to one-half cupful. 

Pit the prunes, add the juice and rub all 

through a colander. Have the whip 

^ churn on ice and the eggs cold. Put 

all the ingredients into the churn and whip until stiff; this will take from 

ten to twenty minutes. Serve very cold in tall glasses. Half apricots and 

half prunes give a nice flavored dessert. Serve sponge cake with this. 



Recipe 26. 



APPLE OR FRUIT CUPS. 



Sift together one pint of flour, a half teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and one teaspoanful of liftiking powder. Beat one egg, add four 
tablespoonfuls of milk and stir into the di'y mixture, adding more milk as 
necessary to make a thick batter. Add two tablespoonfuls of melted butter 
i»nd beat hard. Butter some baking cups and put in each a spoonful of the 
batter. Add a quarter of a tart apple, and more batter to cover and two- 
thirds fill the cup. Steam or bake and serve with a hard sauce. Any kind of 
fresh fruit may be used instead of the apple. 



80 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 27. 



FIG PUDDING. 



Materials. Measure. Weight. 

Figs % lb. 

White Grated Bread 

Crumbs -. 1 Cup 

Brown Su|[ar 1 Cup 

Chopped Suet 1 Cup n 

Milk 1 Cup 

Cinnamon 1 Teaspoonful 

Cloves Vi Teaspoonful 

Salt % Teaspoonful 

Well-Beaten Eggs.. 2 

UTENSILS: 
Steamer Food Chopper 

Grater Egg Beater - 

Measuring Cup Mold or Fan 



DIRECTIONS, 

Put the figs and suet through the 
food chopper and grate the white part 
of a stale loaf of bread until you have 
the given amount. Mix all the ingred- 
ients with these, the well-beaten eggs 
last. Mix well and pour into a well- 
buttered mold or pan and steam fyr 
three hours. Serve hot with lemt a 
sauce. 



Recipe 28. 



JELLIED APRICOTS. 



Materials. Measure. Weight. 

Evaporated Apricots % lb. 

Gran. Sugar % Teaspoonful 

~ Cream 



DIRECTIONS. 



UTENSILS: 
Bowl Double Boiler 

Measuring Cup Individual Molds 



Wash the apricots and soak over 
night in cold water. The next morning 
turn them into the double boiler and 
cook over a very slow fire until quite 
tender but so they will keep their 
shape. Measure the syrup and for each 
cupful use the given amount of gela- 
^ tine softened in a little cold water. Re- 

heat th? syrup, add the gelatine and stir until dissolved. Wet the molds, 
put an apricot in the bottom of each one and pour over the syrup. Set 
in a cold place to harden. Turn out and serve with cream. Any evaporated 
fruit will answer for this recipe. 



BEVERAGES. 

(Including Coffee, Tea, Chocolate, Cocoa, Lemonades, Ginger Ale, Fruit 
Syrups, Punch and Home-Made Wines.) 



"Simple living and high thinking have the approval of learned men and women." 

Tea, coffee, chocolate or cocoa are the beverages most indulged in, in the 
average home, but a few additions have been made under this heading. Water 
is presumably the true beverage ; but with all the numerous " Waters " to 
drink, one is not quite sure whether they have the right one, and if they have> 
one are not quite sure but they should have chosen the other. But good 



BEVERAGES. 81 

water we must drink, and plenty of it, if we wish to keep in a good healthy 
condition. 

Tea and coffee should be taken in moderation and cofFee must always 
be of the best, and madei most carefully. Never allow the coffee to be pul- 
verized as that means " burnt " (through grinding) coffee, but finely ground, 
and for large quantities one-half pound to four quarts of water, 

A cup of chocolate or cocoa well made is a wholesome food. Always 
make in a double boiler, and it requires cooking. Not actively boiling, but 
with the steady water heat underneath should be cooked sufficiently to take 
away that " raw taste " so often found in a cup of chocolate in public places. 

Tea is usually poor, not only on account of the indifference with which 
people usually buy this article, but the greater indifference with which it is 
made. As with coffee, the water should be freshly boiled and when possible 
use a tea ball or strainer ; then by dipping up and down you can have just the 
desired strength. But this is not always convenient, so use a hot earthen pot 
and boiling water, let stand two or three minutes and with a good tea the in- 
fusion is delicate and not unwholesome when taken in moderation. 

Idrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe MfR. Co.. Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 1. HOW TO MAKE COFFEK 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Coffee 4 TablespoonEuls 

White of Egg 1 Tablespoonful A-great deal both of interest and fn- 

iSn^wIter- ;•.::: 3^* Ss formatton might be written about cof- 

fee, but It IS not wise to take it up here. 

UTENSILS' Always buy the best coffee that can 

.7 ^ «■ T,* be bought, and that does not always 

White enameled Coffee Pot ^^ highest priced. Inform your- 

Tablespoon Measuring Cup ^^j^ ^^ ^^ to know good coffee. Do not 

always blame the grocer if your coffee 

is poor; sometimes the poor coffee is 
thf result of a not perfectly clean coffee pot. Once a week put a teaspoon- 
fiil of baking soda into the pot, partly fill it with water and boil for at least 
ten minutes. Then wash thoroughly and you will find it sweet and clean. 
So there are three necessaries for gbod coffee, first an enamel or granite pot 
kept perfectly clean, or buy a cheaper coffee pot (not tin, however) and have 
a new one oftener. Second, a good blending of the best Mocha and Java 
coffee; and third, freshly boiled water. Scald the pot, grind the coffee about 
as fine as coarse granulated sugar. Beat the egg in the cold water, add the 
coffee and mix well. Pour into the coffee pot and add one cup of boiling 
water and bring quickly to the boiling point. Now this must be done always, 
or the coffee is ruined. Set back on the stove where it will keep hot, but not 
boiling, and add the remaining two cups of boiling water. Let stand( two or 
three minutes, settle with a very little cold water and serve at once. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y, 

Copyright, 1900, by Mrs. Aflce Gitchell Kirk. 

2-« 



83 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE feOOK. 



Recipe 2. 



DRIP COFFEE. 



Materials. Measure. 

Coffee 3 Tablespoonfuls 

Boiling Water 4 Cups 



DIRECTIONS. 



UTENSILS: 
Drip Coffee Pot Tablespoon 
Measuring Cup 



There are so many percolators on 
the market that one is at a loss to 
know which one to choose. Select on« 
with as few separate parts as possible, 

and easy to keep clean. It is not wise 

to choose those having washable bags, 
when you have wisely made your se- 
lection, do not take it home and set it on the shelf, but use it, as coffee made 
in this manner is for most people perfectly harmless. Put tlie freshly boiled 
water into the lower part of the coffee pot, and the coffee ground as 
fine as it can be ground without pulverizing it, into the upper section. Put 
on the cover and place over the fire. In from five to eight minutes you will 
have a most delicious coffee. "Tea can be made in the same manner. These 
drip coffee pots or percolators can be purchased to have the coffee made in 
the kitchen or with alcohol lamps for table use. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawraan & Erbe Mfe. Co., Rachester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 190i6/ by Mrs. Alice Qitchdl Kirk. 



Recipe 3. CHOCOLATE. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Chocolate - 2 oz. 

Mnk ^^.T.'. ;:::::::: i pint P"t the chocolate into the double 

Sugar 3 Tablespoonfuls boiler and add the hot water, stirring 

V^"*"^ ^ Teaspoonful ^^^^^jj ^^^^^^^^^ ^nd hot. Then add the 

UTENSILS' ^^^^ which has been heated, beat well 

Double Boiler Measuring Cup ""til the water bpils well underneath. 

Teaspoon Tablespoon Add the sugar and beat again. Re- 

Egg eater Hiove from the fire, flavor, and serve in 

. heated cups with whipped cream. Be 

sure the chocolate is cooked and does 

not have a raw taste as this is ruinous 

to good chocolate. Iced cocoa is very nice. Prepare the cocoa a little 

stronger than usual and when cool put it on the ice and chill. Serve with 

shaved ice and whipped cream. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfe. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



BEVERAGES. 83 

Redpe 4. COCOA. 

Materials. Measure. ^ DIRECTIONS. 

Cocoa 4 Teaspoonfuls 

Sugar 6 Teaspoonfuls Mix the cocoa and sugar well to- 

Boiling Water ^ Pint gather in the double boiler, and add 

Milk 1% Pints the boiling water, stirring all the time 

Pinch of Salt until it reaches the boiling point. Add 

Vauilla 1 Teaspoonful the milk and stir constantly until very- 
hot; now whip with a Dover egg 

UTENSILS: beater until light and frothy. Cover 

Measuring Cup- Double Boiler for five minutes. Flavor and serve 

Teaspoon Egg Beater plain or with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 
FublisKed by Yawinan & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 
^Copyr^ht, 1906, by Mrs. AHce Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 5. GINGER ALE. 

Ginger ale is the foundation of many agreeable drinks and fi uit punches, 
since almost all fruits and flavors seem to harmonize well with th. ginger and 
lemon of which it is made. In two gallons of water dissolve three pounds of 
granulated sugar, and add the beaten whites of three eggs and two ounces of 
ground ginger, previously dissolved in water. Let the mixture come to a 
boil, skim and set aside to cool. Now add the juice of four large lemons, one- 
fourth a yeast cake (compressed) previously dissolved in a little water, and 
stir the mixture thoroughly. Let stand for a few minutes, and then strain 
through a cheese cloth bag, and pour into bottles. Set away in a cool dark 
place, and in forty-eight hours, the ginger ale will be ready to drink. Ah 
acid flavor may be given to this ale by squeezing the juice of half a lemon 
into a tumbler, and then filling the glass with the ale. 



Recipe 6. FRUIT SYRUPS. 

For a change in punches try rhubarb, raspberry, currant, pineapple, or 
strawberry-ade. These, as also lemonade, are better if sugar syrup rather 
than crude sugar be used for sweetening, but on no account should the 
fruit juice be cooked. Add this when the syrup has become cold.. A little 
lemon juice to give " point " to the particular fruit flavor that is used is essen- 
tial in all beverages of this class. 

Remember to use the sweet element sparingly even if the beverage is to 
be used half frozen ; for sugar is a fuel food and in consequence is not " in 
order" during the heated term. Half a cup of sugar is enough for un- 
frozen mixtures; two-thirds of a cup may be required when the beverage 
is to be frozen. But, while stinting on the sugar be generous with 
the fruit juice, and if the quantity at hand of one variey be scanty, add the 
juice of some other fruit and call the concoction a punch. 



84 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe. 7. LEMON SYRUP, 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Lemon Juice 1 Quart 

Watlr^."®". .;'.::■.:: i Quart ^ ^^^' ^°" ^^^ lemons hard under your 

Whites of Eggs .!!! 3 / hand to soften them and squeeze out 

every bit of juice. Put the sugar into 

UTENSILS' * porcelain lined kettle. Beat the eggs 

Lemon Squeezer Puree* Sieve ^° ^ ^tiff froth, mix them with the 

Porcelain lined Egg Beater water and add to the sugar. Stir until 

Kettle Skimmer the sugar is dissolved. Place the kettle 

Wooden Spoon over the fire and boil and skim until 

there is no scum arising to the surface. 

Add the lemon juice to the boiling 
syrup, cover and boil gently ten minutes. Remove from the fire and when 
cool fill bottles which have been rinsed with alcohol. Use bottles with 
patent stoppers. This syrup will keep well the entire year, but 'should be 
made in the spring when lemons are cheap and plentiful. Oranges may be 
used in the same manner as above, using two quarts of juice and the same 
ingredients. Pineapples, cherries, grapes, currants, raspberries and straw- 
berries all make syrups which make delicious drinks, sauces, and ice creams 
when these fruits are out of season. Be careful of too much boiling as it 
destroys the flavor and color of the syrup. Use only granite or porcelain 
lined kettles and stir with wooden spoon. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Aflce Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 8. FRUIT PUNCH. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 
Ceylon or English 

Breakfast Tea ^.. 1 o» Put the tea into the stew pan and 

Oranges 3 cover with a qUart of boiling water ; 

Lemons 6 cover the pan for twenty minutes, and 

Sugar 4 Cups strain. Grate the yellow rinds from 

Grated Pineapple ... 1 Pint half the lemons and oranges adding 

Vanilla and Almond this to the sugar and mixing all with 

Extract 1 Teaspoonful the infusion. Stir until the sugar is 

Bananas 8 dissolved, place over the fire and bring 

Ginger Ale I Pint to the boiling point and boil five 

Water 3 Quarts minutes. Strain and cool. Add the 

^'^^ juice of the lemon and oranges and all 

the other ingredients. Turn this into 

UTENSILS: the punch bowl with a nice block of ice 

Stew Pan Grater and serve. Fresh berries may be added 

Measuring Cup Lemon Squeezer to this or grape juice may be used in- 

Punch Bowl stead of ginger ale. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Tadex Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Kocheeter. N. Y. 

Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Aflce Citchell Kirk. 



BEVERAGES. 



85 



Recipe 9. 

Materials. MmMie. 

Fresh Mint Sprigs., t Dozen 

Shaved Ice 1 Cup 

Sugar % Cup 

Lemon Juice or 

Pure Cider Vinegar 2 
Raspberry Syrup ... 1 
Water 1 



MINT PUNCH. 

Weight. 



DIRECTIONS. 



Tablespoonfuls 
Cup 
Quart 
' UTENSILS: . 
Tablespoon Measuring Cup 

Punch Bowl Shaker 

Ice Shaver Lemon Squeezer 

Chopping Bowl and Knife 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by^rs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Chop the mint fine, add to the ice 
and sugar. Put all into a shaker and 
shake hard untilthe sugar is dissolved; 
pour into a punch bowl, add the other 
ingredients and serve very cold. 



Kecipe 10. MINT LEMONADE. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Shaved Ice % Glass 

LLmln"Syrup"or"" 2^ Tlbfespoonfuls P"* the shaved ice into the glass 

Lemon Ma and add the lemon syrup or the sugar 

?.'*^'' y ■ \V • Vu • • • ^ Teaspoonfuls dissolved in the lemon juice. Stir well, 
Creme de Menthe ,, « . ., ■ • • ... 

Cherry 1 then add the remainmg ingredients, 

Creme de Menthe... 1 Teaspoonful decorating with sprigs of mint stand- 

^■°* ^ ^ SP"S« ing upright in the .glass, and three 

T et. UTENSILS: straws. This is not only very refresh- 

Ice Shaver Straws • . , ^^ x- «i 

Lemon Squeezer Tall Glasses ing but attractive as well. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co.. Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Afice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 11. 

Materials. 

Tart Apples 6 

Lemons 3 

Stick Cinnamon .... V^ 

Sugar 4 

Bay Leaves 2 

Raisins 1 

Oranges 1 



UTENSILS: 
Porcelain Kettle Paring Knife 
Grater Measure 

Jelly Bag Ice Shaver 



APPLE LEMONADE. 

Measure. DIRECTIONS. 



Mash, quarter and core the apples ; 
put them into the kettle with raisins, 
bay leaves and cinnamon. Add two 
quarts of water and bring to the boil- 
ing point; add two more quarts of 
cold water in which the sugar and 
grated rind from the lemons and 
oranges have been dissolved^ Simmer 
slowly half an hour, strain and when 
cool and ready to serve add the juice 
of the lemons and oranges. Set on ice 
until very cold. Put a little shaved 
ice into the sherbet cups, fill with the 
cold lemonade and s<;rve. 



Cups 
Cup 



Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erb* M&. C(^i Beeh«8:er, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1806, by Mrs. Auee Gitchell Kirk. 



86 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK 

Recipe 12. ELDERBERRY WINK 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Elderberry Juice ... 5 Quarts 

Sugar 15 lbs. Pick the elderberries when dead 

Water ripe and extract the juice with a fruit 

press. Into the keg put the above 

UTENSILS: amount of juice dissolved in water. 

Fruit Press Five-Gallon Keg gg sure the sugar is thoroughly dis^ 

Quart Measure Seals solved before putting it into the keg. 

Fill the remaiaJng space with water. 

Rack off in February and wash keg 
in which you can replace the clear wine or it can be bottled. This makes 
a heavy sweet wine on the order of port. To make it more tart and without 
so much body use four quarts of juice and fourteen pounds of sugar. The 
first wine is dark colored while the latter is lighter in color. To make the 
wine from the elderberry blossoms pick when dead ripe and falling from 
the bush ; pick from the stems and to one quart of blossoms add the juice 
of two lemons, four pounds of sugar and pour over all one gallon of boiling 
water. Let cool and when lukewarm add one half yeast cake to five gallons 
of wine and let ferment three days. Put into a keg, leave burtg out, and let 
ferment for a month or six weeks. When through with fermentation it can 
be racked off and bottled. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



CHAFING DISH COOKERY. 

(Including Rarebits, Creamed Oysters, Etc.) 



"The social meal in the. home is an ideal preparation for good digestion." 

While the chafing dish started the fashion, it has quickly grown to 
be one of the very best of friends. There are many homes where you find it, 
and nowhere is it more serviceable or welcome than at the Sunday night 
supper. 

All who possess this most useful dish are on the lookout for new exploits 
in the chafing dish line. Always maiking fresh and astonishing creations. In 
the ;recipes here given they may represent to many merely old friends with 
new faces, or new names, or perhaps the old dress with additional frills, which 
add not only to the attractiveness of the dish but the taste as well. There are 
few things that cannot be done in the chafing dish if one knows how. The 
greatest aid to successful results is having everything in readiness for work. 
Arrange all material conveniently on either side of dish ; milk and cream and 
all liquids, in fact, in attractive pitchers. Butter molded in balls measuring 
one tablespoonful. Matches in a little tray, etc. Chafing dish on a tray. 
Teaspoon and tablespoon for measuring and all seasonings arranged on a 
small tray. It is not necessary to tell how these things should be arranged. 



CHAFING DISH COOKERY. 



87 



be 



aut neatly and in order and perfectly convenient. Give thought and care to 
this as it saves time and confusion. 

See tliat the lamp is in perfect working order and filled. 

If all the preparations are carefully made, each or any dish will 
quickly and easily cooked. 

For a quick breakfast and where you do not have access to gas, its worth 
cannot be estimated. The chafing dish has come to stay. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking'Recipes. 

Pablisned'by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. AUce Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 1. CREAMED OYSTERb. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTION?. 

Oysters ., 1 Pint 

Frour"^ .."!;;!.■;!!:!!! 2 Tablespoonfull P"* the butter into the chafing dish 

Cream 1 Pint and when heated to be just creamy, 

Celery Salt % Teaspoonful add the flour ; blend well together and 

Dash ■ of ■ Nepaiii " ' " ' teaspoonful ^^^^ smooth, gradually add the cream, 

Pepper Stirring constantly until the sauce is 

smooth. Add the oysters which have 

TTTi?MCTTc. ^^^^ ^^'' Hnsed, small particles of 

r.^ c: r.-u ^^^^°"-^' shcll Tcmovcd and drained. Bring to 

Chafing Dish Large Spoon t^g boiling point, season and serve. A 

. very nice change may be had by using 

half the given amount of cream and 
substitute one-half- cup of sherry, one tablespooHful of Worcestershire 
i^auce and one stalk of celery cut very fine and cooked slightly in the butter. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Kedpes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright. 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 2. OYSTERS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Materials. ' Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Oysters 1 Pint 

Butter"'""' ■ 1 La?ge Tablesp'l ^^^ ^he b'utter into the chafing 

Flour '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'. 1 Large Tablesp'l dish; when slightly melted add the 

Cream 1 Cup flour and stir until well blended; now 

Yolks of Eggs — 3 pour in the cream and one-half cup 

Dash of Paprika';:: ^ ^^^?°°"'"' of the liquor from llhe mushrooms. Stir 

until smooth. Add the oystets and the 

small mushrooms whole <Jr sliced. 

UTENSILS J Bring to the boiling point and add the 

Chafing Dish Tablespoon well-beaten yolks slowly. Remove at 

Toast Measuring Cup once from the fire, season and serve 

Small Egg Beater on squares of toast. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cqoking Recipes. 
Published by Vafrraan & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N, Y. 

Copyright. 1908, by Mrs. Alibe. Gitchell Kirk I 



88 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 3. WELSH RAREBIT. 

Materials. Measure. WeliibU DIRECTIONS. 
American Cheese, 

yellow lib. Grat€ the cheese or cut it very fine . 

Butter ,.. 1 Tablespoonful Rub the pan with the garlic. Mix all 

Catsup 1 Tablespoonful the seasoningfs. with the cheese. Heat 

Ale or Beer % Cup the beer and when boiling hot add 

Salt % Teaspoonful the cheese mixture and stir rapidly and 

Horseradish 1 Teaspoonful constantly until smooth and creamy. 

Clove of Garlic ^... 1 Beat very hard at the last and serve 

Cayenne Pepper ... at once on squares of toast. 

Worcestershire Sauce Be very sure the plates are hot, also 

the toast, and ready the instant the 

rarebit is done. The success of this 

UTENSILS: depends largely upon the cheese. 

Chafing Dish Grater Nothing is better than a good soft yel- 

Tablespoon Teaspoon low New York cheese. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. COy Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 4. SHRIMP WIGGLE. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Shrimps 1 Cup 

Peas 1 Cup _ , 4 . ... 

Paprika % Teaspoonful , Prepare the shrimps by rinsing, 

Flour 1 Large Tab'spl draining, and cutting or breaking in 

BtiSer- ■.: ::::::::::: 8^ TXespoonfuis s" ^ h- If • -''^u^% ^""'' /,° >.' 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful chafing dish, mixing the flour well with 

Chopped Parsley ... 1 Teaspoonful it ; then pour on gradually the milk 

Extract of Beef % Teaspoonful and as soon as the sauce thickens add 

UTENSILS' ^^^ shrimps and peas with all the sea- 
Chafing Dish Teaspoon sonings. Bring to the boiling point 
Tablespoon and serve. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooklngr Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mtg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Afice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 6. SHRIMPS A LA POULETTE. 

Shrim'^**:'!!': 1 Cup""" DIRECTIONS. 

Butter 1 Tablespoonful 

Flour ., 1 Tablespoonful Mix the butter and flour well to- 
Cream ^,, S^P , , gether in the chafing dish. Add the 

Yolks of Egg^" : : ; : : 2 T^^^P°°"^"' cream gradually, stirring all the time. 

Lemon Juice 1 Tablespoonful Now add the shrimps, season and wJien 

Nepaul Pepper or hot serve. Whole wheat bread sliced 

Paprika thin, buttered and a small piece of let- 

. _ UTENSILS: tuce thinly spread with Hot Relish. 

SeTi^Sfn''"" Teas'po'on'"^'* cut in fancy shapes for sandwiches arc 

Lemon Squeezer very nice served with shrimps. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Ufa. Co., Rodiester, N. Y. 

Copyright. 1906, by Mrs. Afice Gitchell Kirk. 



CHAFING DISH COOKERY. 



89 



Recipe 6. SWEETBREADS SAUTE WITH FRENCH PEAS. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Sweetbreads Prepare the sweetbreads by wash- 

Crumbs (white).. »«? well in cold water, removing any 

Egg of the pipes and membranes. Cook 

Butter them in boiling salted water with one 

B*\n tablespoonful of lemon juice twenty 

minutes. Then put them in cold water 
UTENSILS* ^°^ * ^^^ minutes, and then into the 

Ch fine Di h * refrigerator until wanted for the chaf- 

Shallow d'4 or Saucer for Egg - ^g dish- . Sprinkle with salt and pep- 

Plate for Bread Crumbs per, roll in fine white bread crumbs, 

. then in the beaten egg, again in the 

crumbs and saute in the chafing dish 
after delicately cooking the bacon. "Serve the sweetbreads and bacon gar- 
nished with the French peas heated and seasoned with butter, pepper and salt. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes, 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. ARee Gitchell Kirk. 

Recipe 7. CHICKEN HOLLANDAISE. 

Materials. Measure. «,^^^_..»„«. 

Cooked Chicken.... 1 Pint , DIRECTIONS. 

Chopped Celery ... % Cup 

iror.::;:::::::::: I ?feoS ,, Meit the butter in the chafing dish. 

Onion Juice 1 Teaspoonful add the celery and cook just a few mo- 
Chopped Parsley ... 1 Tablespoonful ments. Stir in the flour and water or 
Juke of Shalf"*' stock gradually. Add the remaining 

Lemon seasonings with the carefully cooked 

Paprika ....... — meat of the chicken cut in small 

Kitchen Bouquet ... % Teaspoonful . c?.. n ,i . . . • t. 

Stock or Water 1 Cup pieces. Stir all well together and when 

UTENSILS: well heated add the yolks of the eggs 

Chafing Dish Measunng^Spoon ^gll beaten. Serve with watercress 

Tablespoon "^ Bowl ^* " sandwiches and thin bread and butter. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Afice GitcheU Kirk. 

Recipe 8. THE QUEEN'S TOASTED CHEESE. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Cheese, not too soft % lb. 

Ale • • • — • 3 Smalf Gl«s"^* "^^'^ '^ *^« "<='P<= ^^°"^ *^« Lodge 

Dash^of Cayenne !!! at Windsor. . Grate the cheese fine and 

■'vSalt .." % Teaspoonful add the ale and champagne. Put into 

fctast . ^ the chafing dish and stir well until the 

mixture is smooth and creamy. Add 

UTENSILS- *^* seasoning and serve very hot from 

_. , T^' t. ^ * ' *hc chafing dish on squares of toast. 

SSo?n "^ wfne Glass A light salad with French Dressing is 

Teaspoon a nice accompaniment to this. 

" . Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. ' 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co.i Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906. by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



90 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 9. TOMATO RAREBIT. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Soft American 

Strained^ Tomatoes.! % Pint " Grate the cheese and mix all the 

Salt 1 Teaspoonful ingredients with it. Rub the chafing 

Soft^White^S-ead" dish with a clove of garlic. Turn 'the 

Crumbs ,. 1 Cup mixture into the pan and stir rapidly 

Kitchen Bouquet".'.! % Teaspoonful until hot and smooth. Serve at once 

UTENSILS: on toast accompanied with cucumber 

Chafing Dish Tablespoon , . . Frpnrli Drp'^'^inp- 

Teaspoon Measuring Cup ^aiad and i^rencn uressmg. 

Grater 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

PubJished by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Copyright, 1906, by Mrs. Afice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 10. , CHICKEN A LA KING. 

Materials Measure. DIRECTIONS, 

Cooked Chicken, 

diced 2% Cups 

Cream — 3 Cups Arrange the materials in the fol- 

Button Mushrooms. 1/2 Cup lowing manner to bring to the table; 

Frou".;-!!:!::!:!!! I tSooS moid the butter, a taWespoonful in each 

Green Pepper V2 hall ; have the pepper chopped fine on 

Salt a little butter chip ; measure the flour, 

T^^'^l'^^ *^^ cream in a pitcher, the mushrooms 

°*® *"■■ cut in halves and the chicken cut in 

cubes in a dish. Cight the chafing dish 

UTENSILS: and put the butter in the pan to melt, 

Chafing Dish Measurmg Cup ^^^ ^^^ pepper and cook three or four 

Wooden Spoon Tablespoon minutes without allowing^the butter to 

brown. Stir in the floflr, then the 
cream, stirring, until it thickens. Set 
into the hot water pan, then add mushrooms, chicken, salt and paprika. When 
heated thoroughly, serve on toastl 

J* 



THE CANNING OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES. 

(Including Both Large and Small Fruits, Pineapples, Asparagus, Beans, 
Beets, Tomatoes and Green Corn.) 



* Practice makes perfect." 

It is not difficult to can alt kinds of fruits and vegetables if one studies 
sterilization, has perfect utensils and knows how to select fruits. The slight- 



THE CANNING OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES. 91 

est disregard of necessary rules in the canning or preservation of fruits may 
cause great loss, not only of time and strength, but money as well. 

The following rules have been used many times with perfect success. 
If you fail it is because you have not followed the suggestions given. 

All fruits and vegetables to be perfect should be canned the day they 
are picked. If this is not possible, when purchased at the stores, come as close 
to freshness &s you possibly can. 

They must be ripe, not bruised, and free from decay. 

They must be cooked in the cans or jars in which they are to be kept ; 
und the best process known is canning by steam. Cans or jars and covers (and 
rubbers if you use them) should be perfect. Use new rubbers every year. 
Use jars with covers which are absolutely unaffected by any known food acid, 
and sweet and clean as the glass itself. 

The jafs must t)e Sterilised by placing in the cooker and gradually bring 
water to the boiling point, and boil for ten minutes. Covers should be-dipped 
in boiling water and not handled on the inside after this sterilizing. 

The contents of every jar must be sterile ; that is, sufficiently boiled to 
destroy all the germ life in it] otherwise they will surely spoil, and one germ 
will spoil the entire contents. Different fruits and vegetables require differ- 
ent time for cooking, as some germs are tougher and longer lived than others. 

Fewer utensils are necessary with the steam cooker than any other 
method of cianning, and these should also he sterilized to insure perfect suc- 
cess. 



Recipe 1. RASPBERRIES. AND ALL SMALL FRUITS. 

Materials. Measure. DIRKCTIONS. 
Large _ Red Rasp- 
berries.. 1 Quart Place the required number of jars 

Currant Juice % Pint , . . , ^ t i^i r i j i 

Sugar % Cup ^^^ covers m the kettle of cold water 

over a slow fire and bring slowly to 

UTENSILS- *^^ boiling point. Mash the currants 

„ , „,.^ ■ . , . and press out the juice until you have 

Larg" KeSr '^ptn'fr "^^ the required amotint. Usually a quart 

Large Enamel Fruit Jars of currants makes one-half pmt of juice. 

Spoon Stew Pans Bring this juice to the boiling point and 

Towels ■ Holders add the sugar. Bring to the boiling 

"^ point again, skim and boil five minutes. 

Fill the hot sterilized jars with the 
berries, adjust the rubbers and pour over the boiling syfup. Stand the jars 
in the cooker and steam five minutes. If the jars are not quite full, fill from 
one jar then return them to the cooker and steam five minutes longer. Seal 
tiglftly, stand aside until cool. Then tighten again. 

In catming strawberries, place them in a colander and dip them up and 
down two or three tinies in cold water to remove any sand or dirt. Drain 
and stem them. Make your syrup, using water in place of currant juice. 
Fill the jars full of berries and place in the cooker. St^am for ten minutes. 
Lift out three jars, drain free from juice and fill two of them from the steamed 
fruit of the third ; fill with the boiling syrup, adjust rubbers and stand again 



93 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



in the cooker, steaming five minutes longer. Seal as directed for rasp- 
berries. Keep in a cool, dark place. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cookingr Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 2. CANNING LARGE FRUITS. 

(Peaches, Pears, Apples, Pineapples, Quinces, Etc.) 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Peaches 8 lbs. 

wfSr ::;:::■■;■■" 1 Quart ^ ^^^' ^"t the jars and covers into the 

large kettle filled with cold water, and 

UTENSILS- bring slowly to the boiling point. Add 

c^ f. , ,,r. . ',, ..t J the sugar to the given amount of water, 

Steam Cooker Wide Mouthed „♦:,,:„- ..„4.:i *u • j- i j 

Stew Pan Funnel stirrinpf until the sugar is dissolved. 

Wire Basket Wooden Spoon Place it over the fire and boil ten min- 

Holders Towels utes. Skim. While the jars are heat- 

Large Kettle bcales ^ jj^^j^ ^^ ^ ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^ ^.^^ ^^^^^^ 

— and dip in hot water for just a mo* 

ment. Cut the peaches in halves, re- 
move the stones and the skins. Be sure you do this, as the peaches are kept 
in perfect shape. Take one jar at a time from the hot water, drain and neatly 
arrange the fruit in them. Fill to overflowing with the boiling' syrup, ad- 
just the sterilized rubbers and steam five minutes. Have some of the boil- 
ing syrup in readiness and if the syrup is not at the top of the jar, fill with 
the syrup to overflowing and seal at once. 

These directions will answer for all large fruits such as pears, apples, 
pineapples and quinces. Add just a little green ginger root to pears for flavor. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfe. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 3. 

Materials. 

Asparagus .... 
Boiling Water 
Salt 



ASPARAGUS AND STRING BEANS. 

Measure. 



DIRECTIONS. 

Wash, drain and trim fresh aspara- 
gus. Fill the sterilized jars neatly, 
heads up ; adjust the rubbers and place 
them in the steam cooker and steam 
without water three-quarters of an 
hour, then fill the jars with boiling 
water. Add a teaspoonful of salt to 

■ each jar and steam thirty minutes 

longer. Place cover on the jar before 

removing from the cooker, then lift out carefully and screw covers on tightly. 

Always tighten the covers after the jars have become cold. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card lodea Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yavnnan & Erbe Mfg. Co.. Rochester. N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 1. C<V7right. Vm, by Mrs. Alice Gitehdl KirK 



UTENSILS: 

Steam Cooker Towels 

Holders Fruit Jars 

Paring Knife Large Kettle 



THE CANNING OF tRUITS AND VEGETABLES. 



93 



Recipe 4. 



PEAS. LIMA BEANS OR BEETS. 



^Materials. 

x^CdS •■*.•.... 

Boiling Water 
Salt 



Measure. 



DIRECTIONS. 



UTENSILS: 

Steam Cooker Wide Mouthed 
Towels Funnel 

Tablespoon Holders 

Large Kettle Fruit Jars 



Select very young peas and be 
sure they are freshly picked. Sterilize 
the jars as directed in previous recipes. 
Fill the peas in the jars, stand in the 
steatn cooker and steam fort3^ minutes; 
put a teaspoonful of salt in each jar 
and fill to overflowing with boiling 
water. Steam again twenty minutes 
and screw on the tops. In removing 
the tops from the kettle in which they are sterilized, do not turn them up or 
let anything come in contact with them, not even the fingers. Peas contain 
sugar. The air is full of wild yeast plants which live upon such material. 
One spore on the inside of the lid might spoil the entire jar of vegetables. 
Keep in a cool, dark place. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Sodiester, N. V. 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 5. 



CORN. 



Materials. 



Measure. 



Corn 



DIRECTIONS. 



UTENSILS: 
Steam Cooker Large Kettle 

Tablespoon Holders 

Wide Mouthed Towels 

Funnel 



After removing the husks and 
every particle of silk from perfectly 
fresh coVn, cut it from the cob, pack 
it in sterilized jars, press down well 
Jind fill them. Put these jars into the 

, , steam cooker and steam for two hours. 

If the corn shrinks fill three jars from 
the fourth and put them back into the 
cooker and steam one hour longer. Seal carefully as directed for peas, as 
corn is one of the hardest vegetables to can. Watch carefully for three or 
four days, and if there is the slightest sign of fermentation, remove the lids, 
put them back into the cooker and steam thirty minutes again. 

(Some, who do not have a steam cooker, set the jars in boiling water.) 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfe. Co., Rochester. N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



94 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK, 



Recipe 6. TOMATOES. 

(Also Raspberries, Currants, Cherries, I^ared Plums, Grapes, Soft Pears, 

Soft Peaches, Etc.) 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Tomatoes 

Boiling Water Select tomatoes perfectly fresh, 

Salt firm and uniform in size to pass into 

the jars perfectly whole. Place a few 

UTENSILS: tomatoes at a time in a wire basket 

Steam Cooker Wire Basket g^d dip in boiling water to loosen the 

Large Kettle skins. Sterilize the jars and fill with 

tomatoes, being careful not to ciTish 

them. Add one teaspoonful of salt and 
fill to overflowing with boiling water. Screw the covers on tight at once, 
and stand in a kettle of boiling water, turning the burner out. Let stand 
until cold. Fruit such as raspberries, currants, cherries, pared plums, grapes, 
soft peaches and soft pears will keep nicely in this same way, using boihng 
syrup instead of boiling water. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., 'Rochester, M. Y, 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 190T, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk, 



Recipe 7. 



CANNED PINEAPPLE, 



Materials. 
Ripe Pineapples ... 
Water and Juice ... 1 Pint 
Gran, Sugar 1 Pint 



Measure. 



DIRECTIONS. 



UTENSILS: 
Sharp Butcher Knife Fruit Jars 
Vegetable Knife 
Silver Knife or Fork 
Stew Pan 



Measuring Cup 
Steam Cooker 
Wooden Spoon 



Secure perfectly ripe fruit, and cut 
crosswise in slices from one-half to 
three-quarters of an inch thick, peel 
and remove eyes and any brown spots 
and pick into small pieces with fork, 
or cut in any desired shapes, using the 
silver knife for this purpose. 

. Fill the copper pan of the steam 

cooker with cold water, set the jars 
inside the cooker, put over the fire, bring the water to the boiling point and 
boil ten minutes. This is absolutely neces£ary_for sterilization of the jars. 
In the meantime add the juice from the pineapple to the water and sugar, 
put this into the stew pan over the fire, stir until sugar is dissolved. Boil 
five minutes and skim. Remove one jar at a time from the cooker, fill with 
the pineapple and then, to overflowing with the boiling syrup. Put those 
filled into the cooker, lay the cover on top, which has been dipped for a second 
time in boiling water, ?ind steam fifteen minutes. Now remove each jar, 
lift off the cover and place again in boiling water while you fill the jar to 
overflowing with the remaining boiling syrup. Replace the cover quickly, 
sealing tight, and stand aside to cool. The next morning and for nearly a 
week, watch your fruit carefully to see if it is going to keep. The contents 
of every jar must be sterile (dead), one germ on the cover, in the jar or 
fruit will spoil the entire contents. 



PRESERVING AND JELLY MAKING. 

(Including Jams and Fruit Juices.) 



" There is every kind of berry in my pail, 
I wanted blue ones only, 
But on this fruitful road I could not fail 
To find all kinds of berries in my pail." 

In preserving, canning or jelly making, iron or tin utensils should never 
be used. The fruit acids attack these metals and give both bad color and 
taste to the fruit. 

The kettle should be broad rather than deep, and this may be procelain 
lined, enameled or aluminum. As in any other work, the proper tools or 
utensils are necessary for the best results in canning, preserving and jelly 
making, such as preserving kettle, steam cooker or large kettle, skimmer, 
colander, wire sieve, wooden spoon, measuring cup, sauce pan, scales for large 
fruits if possible, wooden masher, cheese cloth jelly bag and plenty of clean 
cloth or towels. The regular kitchen pans hold the fruit and sugar. 

When the fruit is purchased, keep it where it will keep cool and free 
from dust or flies until ready to use. System will do much to lighten the 
work. Have the kitchen swept and dusted thoroughly with a damp cloth 
to keep down all dust and thus have less danger in keeping the fruit. 

Have a kettle ready for sterilizing the jars and all necessary utensils and 
sugar at hand. Then with a moderate amount of fruit to put up at one time 
the work should be a pleasure. 

To each quart of large fruit one pint of syrup is necessary for can- 
ning. TvjfO-thirds of a pint of syrup for a quart of the small fruits. One pint 
of sugar and the same of water put over the fire, stir until the sugar is dis- 
solved, bring slowly to the boiling point and boil five minutes or longer if 
desired richer. This makes a good syrup for all canned acid fruits. 

A light syrup may be made from one pint of sugar and two pints of water 
boiled ten minutes for canning blueberries, and proceed precisely the same 
as for canning raspberries, cherries and currants. 

Fruit syrups and fruit juices are two most desirable ways for the preser- 
vation of fruit, and are most desirable for delicious drinks, sauces, ices and 
ice cream. Pineapples, cherries, grapes, currants, oranges, lemons, raspberries 
and strawberries may all be used for this purpose. Be careful of too much 
boiling, as it destroys the color and flavor of the fruit juices or when made 
into syrup. It keeps well the entire year and should be made when fruits 
are seasonable and reasonable in price. 

One recipe will answer for all fruit juices. They may be bottled with or 
without sugar. Currant juice may be sterilized and canned without sugar, 
making the jelly at any season' of the year. 

Use self-sealing bottles instead of cans. 

The amount of sugar, when used for grape juice, cherries and plums is 
one-half pint to each quart of juice. Currants will require one pint of sugar 
to a quart of juice. I will give the recipe for Grape Juice and this will answer 
for all the given fruits as directed. 

95 



96 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

Recipe 1. GRAPE JUICE. 

Wash the grapes and pick them from the stems. Put them into a pre- 
serving kettle — porcelain lined — crush a little, adding just enough water to 
prevent them from sticking. Cover and heat slowly until the grapes are soft 
and the juices well out. Turn into a double cheese cloth bag and drain over 
night. The next itiorning sterilize the bottles. Return the juice tp the clean 
preserving kettle ovei- the fire. Let come to a boil and skim. Repeat. Add 
the sugar and stir until dissolved. Let come to the boiling point, skim and 
rinse the bottles with a little alcohol, fill them and cork. Put them into the 
steamer or a kettle of hot water and boil them thirty minutes. Place on a 
wire cooler away from the draft to cool. 

The only difference between the syrups and juices is that in the syrup 
more sugar is used. 

Recipe 2. BLACKBERRY JAM. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Blackberries 1 Quart 

S»8^'' • • • • • 3 Cups Heat the berries very slowly, then 

mash them through the sieve. Have 

UTENSILS: the sugar heated in a moderate oven. 

Sieve Wooden Masher Pour the blackberry juice and pulp 

Jelly Glasses Measuring Cup into the kettle ; bring to a boil and then 

Porcelain Lined Wooden Spoon ^ add the Sugar. Stir both together, 

^*" * boil very rapidly and watch carefully 

that it does not burn. Boil until it 

"sets or "wrinkles" when a little is 
taken out in a dish and placed on ice. 

If you do not wish the seeds removed from the berries put them at 
once into the kettle ; stir and crush with a wooden spoon and boil thirty 
minutes, then add the sugar and proceed as above. Put in small tumblers 
and cover tightly. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Secipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe MTg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 3. CURRANT JAM. 

Materials. Measure, DIRECTIONS 

Currants 1 Quart 

^ ^' Wash the currants and pick them 

from the stems ; then measure the cur- 

UTENSILS: rants and sugar and let stand over 

Porcelain Kettle Telly Glasses night. In the morning bring them to 

Wooden Spoon Measuring Cup ^^^ boiling point, stirring almost con- 

1 tihually until finished. Test this as you 

would for jelly by taking a little out 
in a saucer and cooling on ice. If it congeals it is ready to pour into the 
jelly glasses and finish in the sunshine. Seal as you would jellies. Equal 
parts of raspberries apd currants are a nice combination; and in the red 



PRESERVING AND JELLY MAKING. 



97 



raspberry jam a half a cupful of currant juice to every quart of berries adds 
much to the flavor of the jam. 

^ ^,. , ?*."• K'*'s Card Index Cooking Recipes. 
Published by Vawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 
Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 4. 

Materials. Measure; Weight 

Rhubarb 3 lbs. 

Figs %lb. 

Orange Peel % lb. 

Grated Lemon and 

Juice ^ 

Sugar 8% lbs. 



UTENSILS: 

Paring Knife Lemon Squeezer 

Scales Jelly, Glasses 

Porcelain Lined Kettle 



RHUBARB JAM. 



DIRECTIONS. 



Cut the rhubarb in inch length 
pieces. Take ordinary dried figs and 
cut in medium sized pieces; shred the 
orange peel and add the juice and 
grated, rind of the lemon. Put a layer 
of rhubarb, figs, orange peel, lemon 
and sugar and repeat these layers until 
all is used; cover and let stand over 
night. In the morning boil until thick, 
about one hour will do. Put away 
in jelly glasses. This is delicious and 
very nice for sweet sandwiches for af- 
ternoon tea. 



Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk, 



Recipe 5. 



STRAWBERRY JAM. 
(Also Black and Red Raspberry Jam.) 



Materials. Measure. 

Jtrawberries 4 Quarts 

Sugar 2 Quarts 

UTENSILS: 
Porcelain Lined Jelly Glasses 

Kettle Colander 

Woodert Masher Silver Tablespoon 
Measuring Cup 



DIRECTIONS. 

Put the berries into the colander 
and dip it up and down once or twice 
in cold water. Drain, and hull them- 
Measure half the berries and empty 
them into the kettle, placing over a 
moderate fire to heat, mashing the 
berries well. Do not let them boil, 

, but mash and heat until all the juices 

are well started. Measure and for 
every pijit of this pulp add one pound of sugar. Put both together into the 
kettle and bring quickly to the boiling point, boiling rapidly and skimming 
until perfectly clea^, which will take about fifteen minutes from the time 
it begins to boil. Now add the remaining two quarts of whole strawberries. 
Bring to the boiling point again, boil five minutes. If you wish it cooked 
down very thick carefully skim out the berries and cook the juice from 



98 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



five to fifteen minutes. Unite the berries with this juice and put by spoonfuls 
into the hot sterilized tumblers and finish in the sunshine where it is free 
from dust, or with glass over the tops, and seal as directed. 

Strawberries and grated pineapple make a delicious combination. 

Black or red raspberries may be prepared in precisely the same manner 
as the strawberries. 

Hrt. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 6. SPICED CURRANTS. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Currants 1 Quart , 

Gran. Sugar 3 lbs. Wash and stem the currants, then 

Vinegar 1 Pint measure and arrange proportions as 

Ground Cloves X Tablespoonful given. Put the vinegar into the kettle 

Ground Cinnamon.. 1 Tablespoonful and then the sugar, stirring until well 

Ground Allspice ... 1 Tablespoonful dissolved. Add the fruit and spices 

and boil two hours. This may boil 

more slowly than for jams, but must 

UTENSILS: ^^ watched and stirred often so that 

f ' it does not bum nor stick. 

Porcelain Lined Tablespoon Ripe cherries and gooseberries are 

Kettle Scales delicious spiced in this manner and all 

Measuring Cup Wooden Spoon are nice to serve with cold meats. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, l^OT, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 7. 

' Materials. 

Ripe Quinces 
Sugar 



QUINCE PRESERVES. 



Measure. 



DIRECTIONS. 



UTENSILS: 

Paring Knife Scales 

Porcelain Lined 



Kettle 



Measuring Cup 
Skimmer 



Wash and wipe the quinces. 
Pare, core apd cut into slices, or they 
may be quartered. Be sure to throw 
each piece into cold water to prevent 
discoloration. Put them into the kettle 
and barely cover with boiling water. 

Simmer until tender; skim out the 

fruit very carefully and add the parings 
but not the cores to the liquid; cover and simmer one hour. Strain and to 
every pint of this juice allow one pint of sugar; stir until dissolved. Bring 
quickly to the boiling point and boil hard (if there is a quart of juice) fifteen 
minutes, skimming well. Now put in the quinces and boil until clear and 
red. Tt is better to keep them covered if you wish them bright in color. 
When the quinces are d«ne skim out into hot sterilized jelly glasses. Boil 



PRESERVING AND JELLY MAKING. 



99 



the juice if necessary a little longer to become thick; pour this over the 
fruit and stand in the sunshine to finish. Seal as directed. 

Ifri. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Bcdpes. 
. , Publisbed by Yawman & Erbe Mfg, Go,, Rochester, N. V. 
SapplvfneBtarSet No. 1. Copyright, 1M7. by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 8. SAN DIEGO ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Oranges (Navel) ... 6 , 

Lemons ... 3 ^"* °^ *^^ ^"^^ °^ ^^^ oranges and 

.^ 7 r ng lemons and throw away. Peel thin 

'*^"' ••• **^ oranges and lemons round and round 

S«g" like an apple and then cut with shears 

very fine. Remove the white skin and 

cut the pulp into fine pieces. Cover 

UTENSILS; the pulp and shredded peel well with 

_ , T, ■ rr -f cold water and let stand 13 to 24 hours. 

Large Bowl Paring Kmfe j)^^j„^ ^^^ ^^^ ^^^^j. ^^^ ^^^ ^^^^.j 

Shears Wooden Spoon reduced One inch or until the rinds are 

Kettle Glasses tender. Add equal amount of sugar 

Measuring Cup and cook until it jellies. 



Recipe 9. 



SMALL FRUIT JELLY. 



Materials. - Measure. 

Currant Juice 1 Quart 

Sugar 1 Quart 



Jelly Bag 
Masher 

Measuring Cup 
Porcelain Liiied 
Kettle 



UTENSILS: 

Large Kettle 
Skimmer 
Small Glasses 
Strainer 



DIRECTIONS. 

Select the currants and pick over 
as previously directed for small fruits. 
Put them into the preserving kettle. 
Do not stem them but mash well. 
Place over the fire until heated and the 
juices well started. Put into the jelly 
bag and drain over night The next 

.— morning, wash and put the glasses into 

the kettle with cold water and bring 
slowly to the boiUng point ready for use. Measure the juice and fo* each 
pint or quart of juice an equal amount of sugar. Measure the juice into 
the kettle, put over the fire, bring to the boiling point and boil it twenty 
minutes, skimming often. After the juice has been boiUng for about ten 
minute^ measure the sugar into a pan, place in a moderate oven and heat, 
being careful not to melt it. 

When the juice has cooked the required time, add the sugar, stir until 
all is dissolved. If your fruit was not over-ripe and your wpric carefully done, 
the jelly will be ready to strain at once into glasses ; if not, it must be cooked 
longer. Set in the sunshine to finish. Cover with melted paraffine, label 
and set away in a dark, cool closet. Grapes, raspberries and blackberries 



100 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

are made in the same manner. A mixture of fruit juices always makes a 
pleasant variety. 

For red raspberry jelly add one-third currant juice. For crab-apple 
jelly the addition of wild plum juice improves the flavor, or a stick of cin- 
namon, or even the native grape juice. Under-ripe ' grapes make an espe- 
cially attractive jelly. Black raspberry and crab-apple, and grape and crab- 
apple make a nice combination. 

Kts. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1007, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk, 



Recipe 10. APPLE JELLY, QUINCES OR CRAB-APPLES. 

T J Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Lady Blush or Pip- 

Ju?ce from Apple's".'.! 1 Quart Wash the fruit, remove the cores 

Gran. Sugar 3 Cups and cut the apples into small pieces; 

put them into a large porcelain lined 

UTENSILS: kettle and barely cover with cold watet. 

Large Kettle Porcelain Kettle Cover and boil gently until the fruit is 

Jelly Bag f '."«ig ^"i^e soft and the juice is well started. Pour 

Measuring Cup ISaTer' 1?*° the jelly bag and drain over night. 

The next morning wash and prepare 
■ the glasses for sterilizing as before di- 

rected. Measure the juice. Put it into 
the porcelain lined kettle, bring to the boiling point and boil twenty minutes. 
Have measured and heated three-fourths the amount of sugar that you had 
juice. Add the sugar to the juice as previously directed, stirring until the 
sugar is dissolved and it should be ready to strain at once into the glasses. 
If you are not quite sure, take out a little in a dish and try it by standing 
on ice. If it congeals or wrinkles on the top it is ready to put at once into 
glasses. Finish as previously directed for jellies. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set Mo. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe IL MIXED JELLY. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Equal portions of 

b e r''rll's.''cir?ant^ Stone, the cherries, being, sure to 

Strawberries, Sugar save all juice that escapes. Mix all the 

fruHs tc^ether and mash well; Heat 

UTENSILS: only until the juices are well started 

Jelly Bag Porcelain Lihed and then turn the jelly bag and squeeze 

Masher ru^^l. thoroughly. Put the juice into an- 

llSsuringCup other leUy bag and drain without 

squeeziiijf. Measure the juice and te 
every jmit allow one pound or two 

cups of sugar. Turn the juice into 



PICKLING. 101 

the kettle and if there is one quart of jjlice boil twenty minutes and finish 
the same as other jellies in preceding recipes. 

Mrs, Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 
. Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 
Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitcbell Kirlc. 



PICKLING. 

(Including Watermelon, Peach, Pear, Tomato, Cucumber and Oiled Pickles 
and Chow Chow, Chili Sauce and Relishes.) 



" Prove all things ; hold fast that which is good." 
(All measurements level.), 

Sweet pickles are made from all fruits that can be preserved such as 
citron, watermelon rind, crab-apples, peaches, pears, cucumbers and many- 
others. 

Spiced fruits from currants and gooseberries are delicious, with cold 
meats. 

Good cider vinegar only should be used for pickling, brown or white 
sugar and the very best spices which can be bought. The housekeeper has 
every, opportunity now under the Pure Food Law of knowing whether she has 
genuine spices or ground leaves. There is, or has been, so much adulteration 
in spices that I make this appeal to housekeepers to not buy cheap, inferior 
spices. The success of pickling where spices are used depends mainly upon 
their purity and flavor. 

The syrup for the sweet pickles should be i^ich and thick and sufficiently 
cooked to keep without being sealed. 

Do not use preservatives or coloring matter of any kind. Do your pick- 
ling carefully, not too much at once. Have variety rather than quantity, then 
there will be no failures. ^ 

Recipe 1. WATERMELON, PEACH OR PEAR PICKLES. , 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 
Ground Allspice .... 2 TeaspooHfuls 

Cinnamon ......... 2 Teaspoonfuls -rv -j ii. • • ^l 

Cloves 1 Teaspoonful Divide the spices in three parts 

Mace 1 Teaspoonful and tie up in muslin bags. Put the 

Light Brown Sugar , 4 lbs. sugar and vinegar into the kettle; add 

Cider Vinegar . .... 1 Pint ^jjg gpi^e bags and ginger root broken 

Green Ginger Root. % oz. . . ^ ,, P -S • ^ i. -i j 

Watermelon Rind .. 7 lbs. into small pieces. -Bring to a boil and 

put in the watermelon rind cut in about 
UTENSILS: two-inch-length pieces, having soaked 
Porcelain Lined Teaspoon , these in a little weak alum water over 
Kettle Jars night. Bring to a boil once more, re- 
Scales Panftg Knife move from fire, cover and let stand in 
Measurmg Cup ^ ^.^^^j p,^^^ twenty-four hours. Then 

r— . take out the melon rind and let the 

syrup again come to a laoil. Add the 



102 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



rind again and set away for another twenty-four hours. Do this daily 
for one week. The last time, bring all to a boil and simmer very gently 
ten minutes and put awiy in jars. Do not think any part of this too much 
trouble as results are good and you will feel -well repaid for the effort, which 
really takes only a few minutes each day. 

For pickling peaches use a fine freestone and prepare as for cannings 
except do not cut in halves. Pears are cut in halves. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawitian & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y, 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 2. GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Green Tomatoes ... 1 Peck 

Scetolior!.::::! Dozen ' *"■ wash the tomatoes and carefuHy 

Black Pepper 1% ozs. remove any spots on them. Slice, and 

Ground Mustard ... % lb. place first a layer of tomato, then one 

Whole Cloves 1 oz. of onion, then salt and repeat until all 

ad« Vine'lar ' ^ °'" ^'"^ "^^d. Cover and let stand over 

night. In the morning drain off all the 

UTENSILS' liquor or juice. Put them in the porce- 

_ , e. ,., T '*'" ''"cd kettle with all the ingredients, 

La^ge Jowl or Stone^ or Glas^s^ Jars ^5^^ vinegar and simmer gently 

Paring Knife Kettle for twenty minqtes. Put away m 

Scales stone or glass jars. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cocking Recipes. 

Published by^VawmMi & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Suppleinental Set No. 1. Copynght, 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



Recipe 3. CHOW CHOW. 

Materials. Measure. Weight, DIRECTIONS 

English Mustard ... % lb. 

M'J.Ttlrd ::::: ■.::■.:! 2 Tablespo^fSfs , ^^^^ t^e cucumbers with strong 

aUer Vinegar V2 Gallon salt water and let stand over night. 

Brown Sugar 1 Cup Boil the cauliflower and onions sepa- 

Tiny Cucumbers ... 1 Qtjart ^"^ the mustard and tumeric together 

Button Onions ..... 1 Quart and moisten them with a little cold 

vinegar, then stir them into the hot 

UTENSILS' vinegar and stir continuously until it 

^ _, -, T ■ , begins to thicken ; then add the remain- 

?rce^7K^e^t?fe fee^TpU '"^ '"P'^^r^ ^^^ P°"^ this while hot 

Measuring Cup Tablespoon °ver the well drained vegetables. Seal 

Scales Jars in jars. 

Mrs. KirVs Card Index Cooking Redpes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N, Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright. 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitctiell Kitk. 



PICKLING. 



103 



Recipe 4. CUCUMBER SAUCE. 

Materials. Measure. Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Large Cucumbers... 1 'Dozen 

O^'ons % Peck Chop the cucumbers (without par- 
Mustard Seed .......' 2 oz. Jng) and onions fine in the food chop- 
Small Red Peppers.. 1 Dozen per. Put alternate layers of cucumbers 

Celery Seed 1 TaWespoonful and onions (salting each layer) into the 

^"t**'' ^ Cup crock and press over night with heavy 

S^sar */^ Cup weights. In the morning drain, scald 

Salt 1 Tablespoonful jn good cider vinegar (enough to 

Ground Mustard ... 1 Tablespoonful cover), then add red peppers chopped 

^sgs 4 fine^ mustard and celery, stirring thor- 

Cream 1 Cup oughly, to which you will add the fol- 

Vinegar 1% Pints lowing dressing: Cream the butter 

and. sugar and add the remaining sea- 

soningfsi, beating in the eggs one at a 

UTENSILS: time} lastlsr add the cream. Have 

Food Chopper Measuring Cup ready^ the vinegar boiling hot, stir all 

Crock Tablespoon into it. Allow this dressing to just 

Wooden Spoon Stew Pan come tO the boiling point, then stir 

Mixing Bowl Porcelain Lined this into the cucumber mixture and it 

Kettle is ready to put into jars. 

. Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Fiiblisbed by Yawihan' & Erbe Mfg. Co.. Rochester, N. Y. 
Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice GitcheU Kirk. 



Recipe 5. OILED PICKLES. 

Materials. Measure: Weight. DIRECTIONS. 

Small Pickles 100 

Ground Mustard ... % lb. -,,, , j .,, , , , , 

Black Pepper 1 -Teasp'ful .Wash and with a cloth rub the 

Whole Mustard — % lb. cucumbers well; peel the onions and 

Small Onions 1 Quart gjicg both in thin slices. Put a layer 

Celenr^eed '" 2 oz. of cucumbers and one of onions, then a 

Cider Vinegar ". ..V. 2 Quarts good sprinkling of salt, then repeat the 

layers and salt, continuing until all is 
UTENSILS: used. On top place a weight ahd stand 
Paring Knife Large Bowl over night. In the morning, drain. 
Tablespoon Measuring Cup Put a tablespoonful of powdered alum 
Teaspoon Scales j^ sufficient cold vinegar to cover the 
J*" pickles and let fhem stand until after- 
noon. Drain again. Do not waste 

this vinegar as it can be used for other 
pickles. Put the cucumbers and onions into jars, mix all the remaining in- 
gredients together, gradually adding the oil and vinegar and pour over them. 
Seal. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Re«i|)es. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice GitcheU Kirk, 



104 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



Recipe 6. CHILI SAUCE. 

Materials. Measure. 

Ripe Tomatoes .... 8 Quarts 

ST.*^..."°."f!:^^!!'! %Sp directions. 

Celery Seed 8 Tablespoonfuls 

Brown Sugar 1 Cup Peel the tomatoes, cut them in 

MaT'.^"!!'!!!.::: 1^ ^eSpoS!" '' halves and remove all the seeds pos- 
White Pepper 1 Tablespoonful sible; chop fine. Chop fine the onion 

YTncga^^*?. ^T.".■■. 1 Quart and peppers. Mix all the ingredients 

Large Onions 3 wf II together and put in a porcelain 

UTENSILS: lined kettle and simmer slowly for S^^ 

Paring Knife Wooden Spoon hours, then put into the bottles, cork 

Colander Wide Mouthed __ j „„_i 

Food Chopper Bottles ^^°^ ^^*'' 

Porcelain Lined Sealing Wax 
Kettle Corks 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman, & Erbe Mfg. .Co., Roehester, K. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 1. Copyright, 1907, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 

Recipe 7. PEPPER RELISH. 

Materials. Measure. DIRECTIONS. 

Red Sweet Peppers. 6 

pws .7." 6 Chop all the ingredients, using the 

Onions ••• ^ medium sized cutter. Put into the 

Sugar ..^....f?^ ... 1 Cup bowl, pour boiling water over all and 

Salt 2 Tablespoonfuls squeeze dry. Have the vinegar hot 

Vinegar .1 Quart -4.1. xt. j li. • ...1. 

with the sugar and salt in the preserv- 

UTENSILS: ing kettle. Mix all well together, let 

Food Chopper Large Bowl " , ., , , . . ' 

Preserving Kettle Fruit Jars come to a boil, cool and seal in jars. 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N, Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 3. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 

Recipe 8. GENUINE LONGFELLOW PICKLES. 

Green'^Tomaioes ... 1 Pe^'cr "" DIRECTIONS. 

Onions 1 Dozen 

sJ^?.^^!'!'.''.".""; 2 Cups Wash and slice the tomatoes, 

Ground Cloves 1 Tablespoonful onions and peppers into a large bowl 

clSoW-;::::::::iTtSooSM and sprinkle with salt, stand over 

Allspice 1 Tablespoonful night ; the next morning drain, and put 

SSle!"^ :::::: i Tlwes^oonful into a preserving kettle with the spices 

Cider Vinegar and cover with good vinegar ; cook 

^'* U-TENSILsf ""*'' tender. Put away in jars, being 

Vegetable Knife Measuring Cup careful not to break the slices of to- 

Tablespoon ^ , Preserving Kettle matoes. 

Large Mixing Bowl Glass jars 

Mrs. Kirk's Card Index Cooking Recipes. 

Published by Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co., Rochester, N. Y. 

Supplemental Set No. 3. Copyright, 1908, by Mrs. Alice Gitchell Kirk. 



THE PEOPLE'S HQME RECIPES 
FOR EVERYDAY USE. 



"Simple diet is best for many dishes bring many diseases.'* 

The recipes in this department have been gathered from many parts of 
the world and have all been carefully corrected and arranged with the view 
of making them the favorite recipes for every-day use in the home. Though 
the work is complete and coyers every subject, yet special attention has 
been given to the simple and inexpensive dishes. This department will be 
found thoroughly practical and entirely different from all other cook books. 
The aim has been to give. full and complete directions with each subject, not 
only that the experienced cook may use it as a guide, but also that the young 
and inexperienced housewife can make a practical use of the book. 



BREAD MAKING. 

(Including Recipes and Directions for Making White Bread, Whole Wheat 
Bread, Oatmeal Bread, Brown Bread, Graham Bread, Corn Bread, Currant 
Bread, Cornish Bread, Salt Rising Bread, Gingerbread, Etc. Also Recipes 
for Making all Kinds of Yeast and Baking Powder.) 



" Give us this day our daily bread." 

" In bread making, as in baseball, there is nothing like a good batter in the 

hour of knead." 

As "bread is the staff of life," it is important that every housewife be 
well skilled in the art of making good bread. Spongy sweet bread, light 
crisp rolls or flaky biscuits make the plainest meal appetizing while the most 
luxurious dinner is a failure without them. Indeed the health and comfort 
of the family is often determined by the quality of the home made loaves and 
it is an old saying that the way to a man's heart is through his stomach. 
Then why should not every young woman learn this art? There is no 
greater accomplishment. In bread making tl^ree things are important — good 
flour, good yeast and good care. 

FLOUR. 

There is no accurate rule by which the grade of flour can be determined 
by examination and it is well to stick by some tried brand: which has been 
used with success. A brand which is liked by one will be a failure in the 

105 



106 TPIE PEOPLE'S' HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

hands of another. Good flour has a cream-white tint and one should never 
buy that which has a blue-white tinge. Poor flour often has a dingy appear- 
ance as though mixed with ashes, is not adhesive, and may be blown about 
easily. Good flour will adhere *o the hand when pressed and will show the 
imprint of the lines of the skin." Flour should always be thoroughly sifted. 
A single speck of mold will often spoil the brefid. Flour should be bought in 
small quantities, kept dry, cool, and beyond the reach of rats', mice and insects. 
The small moth does much damage. Remember that all kinds of flour and 
meal, except buckwheat and graham, need sifting. It is well to nave a pai.' 
with a tight-fitting cover in whicji to keep flour after sifting until it is needed 

YEAST. 

After flour, the yeast is the most essential element in bread. Most people 
prefer yeast bread but there are some who prefer " sa.lt-rising " bread. Many 
of the dry hop yeasts are good if available. Many use bakers' yeast and buy 
just what they need each baking. There are two advantages in using potato 
yeast: — bread made from it will not dry out so quickly and there is not the 
danger that too much will spoil the flavor of the bread. 

THE SPONGE. 

Sponge is made from warm water or milk, yeast and flour. Some add , 
mashed potatoes. A pint of water or milk should be used for each quart of 
sifted flour. The milk or water (wetting) should be at blood^ heat. If milk 
is used it should be new and first scalded to prevent souring, then cooled to 
blood heat. The bread will be coarse if the "wetting" is too hot. When 
water is used, the addition of a tablespoonful of either butter or lard will 
make the bread more tender. Bread made from water will keep longer and 
has more of the sweet taste of the wheat than that made from milk but is not 
so tender and nutritious. When mixed with milk it requires more flour and 
more kneading. In the summer the sponge should not be set before eight or 
nine o'clock in the evening. The sponge may be made with cold water in hot 
weather. In winter the batter should be mixed with water or milk at blood 
heat. Test it with the finger and make it as warm as can be borne; stir 
in the flour which will cool it enough for the yeast; cover it closely with 
several layers of blanket (it is best to have it in a large jar or crock) and place 
in a warm and even temperature. For four ordinary sized loaves, three pints 
of wetting and a teacup of yeast will generally make enough sponge. In 
making sponge, the yeast should always be added la,st and the sponge should 
not be hot enough to scald. The temperature for rising should be eighty 
or ninety degrees. A more uniform heat can be maintained in a crock or 
stone jar than in tin, hence sponge should never be set in tin. 

MIXING AND KNEADING. 

Early the next morning measure and sift the flour and if the weather is 
cold both the flour and the sponge should be warmed. A large tin dish pan 
with a tight fitting cover is excellent for mixing dough. It should be scalded 
each time it is used. Put the flour into it and for four loaves add two^ level 
teaspoonfuls of salt. Mix well but be careful not to get the dough too stiff, 
then turn out on the bread board ; knead without stopping until the dough 
sticks. to neither the hands nor the board. This will require from forty-five 



BREAD MAKING. 107 

minutes to an hour. All flour to be used should be put in at the first molding 
and it should be kneaded the longest at this time. Use just as little flour as 
necessary to prevent sticking and remember that any pause in the kneading 
will injure the bread. There are different ways of kneading and no precise 
directions can be given. Experience is the best guide. When through with 
the kneading, form the dough into a large loaf and again place it in the bread 
pan which has been sprinkled with flour. Either sprinkle the loaf with flour 
or grease it over with salted butter or lard, cover it closely and set in a warm 
place for from one to two hours, or until it rises to twice its originalnsize ; then 
knead down in the pan, but bread should be kneaded but little at the second 
molding. Form into loaves and put each into a well greased baking pan, 
grease the tops of the loaves with salted butter or lard and set to rise. The 
loaves should be molded perfectly smooth with no lumps or flour adhering to 
the sides. The loaves should rise in the pans for from fifteen minutes to an 
hour, much depending upon the temperature. Before it is entirely through 
rising or when it has risen enough to seam or crack it should be placed in the 
oven. Bread should ferment but twice as the third fermentation spoils it. 
This may be remedied by adding a teaspoonful of soda for each four quarts of 
flour but the bread will not be so good nor so healthful. Salt should always 
be added to bread and biscuit but never salt sponge. A small quantity of 
white sugar improves bread dough, providing the yeast is doubtful. Bread 
should be mixed as soft as it can be handled but if "new process" flour 
made from spring wheat is used the dough must be much harder than when 
winter wheat is used. Try to get the loaves into the pans for the last rising 
rather soft. Pans with high sides are the best for they keep the bread from 
spreading apart or running over the sides. 

To have good baking powder biscuit the dough must be kept so soft that 
you can just get it into the pan. They must be baked quickly in a very hot 
oven. Never roll the dough thinner than an inch. 

BAKING. 

A moderate, uniform heat is very necessary in baking bread. If the heat 
is too great a hard crust is quickly formed before the bread has expanded 
sufficiently and it will be heavy. If the bare hand and arm can be held in the 
oven not longer than enough to count twenty moderately, it is hot enough. 
Or, it may be tested by placing a small quantity of flour in the center of the 
oven on an old piece of crockery ; if it browns in one minute the heat is right. 

To tell when the bread is done break the loaves apart and press gently 
with the finger ; if elastic, it is done, but if clammy, it needs to be returned to 
the oven. Or the loaves may be tested with a broom splint. If nothing ad- 
heres when it is withdrawn the bread is done. It generally takes from forty- 
five minutes to an hour for the baking. As soon as removed from the oven 
the loaves should be taken from the pans and the entire outside greased with 
melted butter. They should then be tilted on edge to allow a free circulation 
of air, though some have success by wrapping the bread with cloth as soon as 
it is taken from the oven. Do not place warm bread next to wood or it will 
have a bad taste. Lay ^ cloth upon the table and put the bread on that. Pans 
should be greased very lightly for bread. If the bread is baked too hard wrap 
it in a wet towel and cover with another dry towel.. 

Remember that yeast must never be us«d if sour; the temperature where 



108 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

the bread is set to rise must not be hot enough to scald ; and the temperature 
of the oven must be moderate and uniform. 

Heat the bread knife and 'you will prevent crumbling in cutting warm 
bread. 

RECIPES FOR MAKING YEAST. 

1. Starter Yeast — ^In the evening boil enough potatoes to make one pint 
when mashed very fine. Save i^otato water and add enough more water to 
make 3 pints, then add 1 tablespoonful salt and ^ cup sugar and 1 cake com- 
pressed yeast, put in the potatoes and stir well, cover and let rise over night. 
In the morning save 1 pint for next baking or make fresh each time, as desired ; 
mix stiflfer with flour than with other yeast. 

2. Potato Yeast. — In the morning, boil and mash three potatoes. Add ^ 
cup of sugar and % cup of flour and ^ tablespoonful of salt; stir well to- 
gether. Pour over this mixture % pint of boiling water and stir it ; then add 
y% pint of cold water and stir that ; then y^ cup of yeast and keep it in a warm 
place. When it is risen well and rounds up to the top of the dish stir it 
down. Do so several times during the day. Then it may be strained and 
put into a jar or jug, and kept in a cool place. The bread made with this 
may be made with milk. 

3. Beer Yeast. — For 1 gallon of yeast, take 12 medium-size potatoes, 
pare and boil them until done. With the water off these, scald 3 heaping 
tablespoonfuls of flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 3 scant tablespoonfuls 
of salt. Mix the potatoes, mashed, with this, then fill gallon with cold water. 
When cold enough, add 1 cake of magic yeast. Let stand in cool place. Take 
I pint of mixture for 1 loaf of bread. 

4. Hop Yeast. — ^Take 1 quart of hops, boiled and strained, 1 cup of sugar, 
% cup of salt, % cup of lard, 2 large tablespoonfuls of ginger, 4 potatoes 
boiled and mashed and enough yeast to raise it. Let stand over night, thcP 
mix enough flour and corn meal to make crumbly. 

BAKING POWDERS. 

1. Baking Powder.^Four ounces tartaric acid, 5 ounces bulk soda, 1 
pint flour ; sift all together four times. 

3. Baking Powder. — A scant pint of flour, % pound of soda and 1 pound 
of best cream of tartar. Sift together eight times through a flour sieve. Fill 
tin boxes and cover tightly. 

The lady sending this recipe says she has used it for years and that it 
never fails. It is pure and the money you save will be a surprise to you. 

3. Baking Powder. — Six ounces cream of tartar, 2% ounce bi-carbonate 
of soda, 43^ ounces of flour. It is claimed this is the recipe from which is 
made one of the most popular brands of baking powder on the market. 

. BREAD RECIPES. 
1. Bread. — Cook potatoes enough to make one cup when mashed; use 
the water the potatoes were boiled in and add enough lukewarm water to 
make three pints; add one tablespoonful of salt and one tablespoonful of 
sugar, one-half cup of liquid yeast and thicken quite stiff with flour. Let 
sponge rise all night in warm place; in the morning add flour enough to make 
stiff. Put in a warm place until light. Knead into loaves, using some lard 
on the molding board but no flour. Let rise and bake. 



BREAD MAKING. 109 

2. Whole Wheat Bread. — In the evening boil enough potatoes to make 
one pint when mashed fine. Save three pints potato water and add to it the 
potatoes, one-half 1:up sugar and one tablespoonful of salt; add one cake com- 
pressed yeast, stir well and let rise over night. In the morning add enough 
warm water to make required number of loaves; add a little more salt and 
a little lard. Stiffen with whole wheat flour and add about two quarts white 
flour, work down twice, then mould into loaves, let rise and bake one hour. 

3. Entire Wheat Bread. — Sift some salt and" three teaspoonfuls baking 
powder with three cups entire wheat flour, then add two cups milk and a scant 
one-quarter cup of molasses. 

4. Salt Rising Bread. — In the evening take three tablespoonfuls of corn- 
meal, one-half spoonful of sugar, one-half spoonful of salt, one-half of a 
raw potato scraped fine, and scald with enough water to make quite a thin 
mush ; set in a warm place until morning ; then take a pint of flour, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, and enough lukewarm water to make a thick batter ; then 
add the mush made the night before, and stir briskly for a minute or two. 
Set in warm place ; when light, stir down and let rise a second time. When 
risen, put four or five quarts of flour in a bread bowl, make a hole in the 
center, and pour in three pints of warm wateri Then add your rising ; knead, 
and when , light mix in loaves. When risen to top of pan,- bake. This will 
make three loaves. 

5. Oatmeal Bread. — Scald one cup of rolled oats with one pint of water 
and let stand until lukewarm ; add to this a little salt, pne-half cup of Orleans 
molasses and one-half cake of compressed yeast, which has been previously 
dissolved in one teacup of lukewarm water. Add enough white flour to make 
a stiff dough and knead thoroughly. Let stand over night and the first thing 
in the morning cut and slash with a knife until the dough is freed from air ; 
when risen again, form into two loaves, place in baking pan and let rise until 
the size is about double, and then bake. 

6. Spinster's Bread. — Two eggs, one quart of flour, two tablespoonfuls 
of shortening, one teaspoonful of salt, one teacupful of yeast sponge, one cup 
of sweet milk. Mix into a soft dough, let rise ; mould into loaves, let rise - 
until light, then bake.' 

7. " Hotel Berry " Brown Bread. — ^Use one and one-half pints of butter- 
milk, one-half pint of molasses, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one tablespoonful of 
lard and enough Graham flour to make a batter that will just" drop from a 
spoon. Put in a very hot pan and bake in a hot oven. 

Those who have stopped at the Hotel Berry at Athens, Ohio, have eaten 
this delicious brown bread. We are exceedingly fortunate in .securing this 
recipe. 

8. Boston Brown Bread. — ^Two cups of Graham flour, 3 cups of white 
flour, 1 cup of corn meal, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup of molasses, 
1 box of raisins, 1 large spoonful of sugar, 2i/4 cups of buttermilk, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of soda. This recipe comes from the Mercer Sanitarium. 

9. Old Fashioned Brown Bread.— Put 1 pint of yellow corn meal in a 
mixing bowl and scald it with just enough boiling water to moisten it. Let 
this stand about 10 minutes, ' then add enough cold water to make a soft 
batter. When lukewarm add % cup molasses, % cup liquid yeast, 1 tea- 
spoonful soda, % teaspoonful salt and 1 pint warm flour. Stir well and let 
rise over night. Next morning stir it down again and put into well greased 
tins to rise. Bake in a moderate oven 2 hours. 



no THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

10. Steamed Brown Bread. — One cup of corn meal, 1 cup of flour, 2 
cups of graham flour, 2 eggs, 1 cup of molasses, 1 teaspoonful of soda. Wei 
this mixture with sweet milk to make a thin batter, steam 3 Iiours. 

11. Graham Bread.— One cup of potato yeast sponge, 3 (iron) table- 
spoonfuls of molasses, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, iVz 
cups of graham flour, li/^ cups of white flour. Stir well together at night; 
let stand until morning, or until light and then put in a pan and let rise 
again ; then bake 45 minutes. 

13. Raised Graham Bread.— To 3 pints of right bread sponge add ^^ 
cup melted butter or lard, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar and enough graham flour 
to make a thick batter. Put into small greased tins, let rise and bake slowly. 
This is enough for three loaves. 

13. Steamed Graham Bread. — ^To 2 cups of buttermilk add 2 large table- 
spoonfuls sugar, 1 teaspoonful soda, 3 cups flour and a pinch of salt; ^team 
iy2 hours and bake until light brown. If wished, a little less graham flour 
may be used and a little white flour added. 

14. Corn Bread. — One tablespoonful of sugar, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of 
salt, 1 tablespoonful of melted butter or lard, 2 cups of buttermilk, 1 level 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little of the milk ; ^ cup of flour. Thicken 
with meal and bake in a greased pan. 

15. Katahdin Corn Bread. — One and one-half cups of sweet milk, 1 or 2 
eggs, 3 scant ^ups of flour, I14 cups of cornmeal (granulated) ; 1 large spoon- 
ful of granulated sugar, 3 heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 1^ tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Beat egg well, stir in the 
milk; sift flour, baking powder, meal, salt and sugar together, and stir 
slowly in egg and milk ; add melted butter and beat well. Bake % hour in 
hot oven. 

16. Fried Bread. — Cut dry bread into small pieces and moisten with a 
little hot water. Take 4 eggs for about 3 pints of bread. Beat eggs and stir 
in bread. Fry in butter or lard. Very nice when eaten with syrup. 

17. Currant Bi'cad. — Take bread dough when ready for pans, For each 
loaf wanted take % box of currants, 1 cup of sugar and lard the size of an 
egg. Use more flour if needed to make stiff. Mix into loaves and let rise 
until light. Bake in a slow oven from 1 to 1^ hours. 

18. Cornish Bread. — One cup of sugar and 1 tablespoonful of lard ; pour 
a cup of boiling water over a pinch of saffron and when a little cool strain and 
pour into the bread sponge ; wash % cup of currants and add to the mixture ; 
make as other bread. This is for four loaves. 

19. Gingerbread. — One cup molasses, 1 cup butter or 1/^ cup each of 
butter and lard, 1 cup sour milk, 1 good teaspoonful of soda or a little more, 

1 teaspoonful ginger, 1 egg, flour enough to make a nice batter; bake in a 
quick oven. 

30. Soft Gingerbread. — One cup of sour milk to 3 cups of sugar, 1 cup 
molasses, 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of ginger, 1 teaspoonful of 
baking soda, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls of lard, pinch of salt, 

2 cups of flour; mix molasses, sugar and milk; sift flour and spices together; 
dissolve soda in vinegar; stir the lard in boiling hot at the last. 

21. Eggless Gingerbread. — One-half cup of brown sugar, l^/^ cups of 
molasses, Yz cup sweet milk, l^ cup butter, one teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoon- 
ful allspice, '% teaspoonful of ginger, 3 cups of flour. 



LIGHT BREADS, ETC. ill 

LIGHT BREADS. 

(Including Rolls, Biscuits, Sandwiches, Cookies, Fritters, Doughnuts, Gems, 
Muffins, Waffles, Corn Cake, Buns, Dumplings, Crullers, Jumbles, Toasts, 
Crackers, Rusks, Scotch Scones, Griddle Cakes, Etc.) 



"O, weary mothers mixing dough. 
Don't you wish that food would grow? 
Your lips would smile I know to see 
A cookie bush or a pancake tree." 

ROLLS. 

1. Rolls. — Scald 1 pint of sweet milk and stir into it a lump of butter 
the size of an egg, and % cup of sugar; when cool stir into this two quarts 
of flour, a small cup of good yeast and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and set to rise 
over nig^t or until it is very light; then knead and let rise again; cut the 
rolls % inch thick ; shape round ; spread over each a little melted butter and 
double over so the roll is a half circle. Place close in the pan ; let rise again 
very light and bake. 

2. Parker House Rolls. — Scald 1 pint of milk and when lukewarm put 
in % cup of butter or lard, ^cup of sugar, and l^/^ teaspoonfuls of salt. 
When cool, thicken as bread sponge and put in % of a cake of yeast. Let 
rise over night ; then mix but do not make it as thick as bread dough ; let rise 
again ; then knead and roll in sheets ; cut with biscuit cutter ; butter the sur- 
face and fold; let rise and bake. 

3. Astor House Rolls. — ^One pint of sweet milk boiled, and while still 
warm put in a lump of butter the size of an egg, a little salt, two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar and i/^ cake of compressed yeast; when light mold 15 minutes, 
let rise again, roll out and cut in round cakes; spread each half with butter 
and fold over on the other half; put into pans and when light bake in a quick 
oven. 

4. Cinnamon Roll. — ^Take a small loaf of light bread dough, 1 table- 
spoonful of lard, sweeten, roll thin, spread with butter, sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon, and roll up in loaf; when light, glaze with beaten egg. Bake 
in a moderate oven. 

5. French Rolls. — Rub 2 ounces of butter and the well-beaten whites of 
three eggs into one pound of flour ; add a tablespoonful of good yeast, a little 
salt and enough milk to make a stifif dough ; cover and set in a warm place 
till light; cut into rolls and dip the edges into melted butter to keep them 
from sticking. Bake in a quick oven. 

'" ' BISCUITS. 

" Keen appetites and quick digestion wait on you and yours." 

1. Soda Biscuit. — Sift a level teaspoonful of soda and V^ teaspoonful of 
salt with 1 quart of flour and rub into it a piece of lard about the, size of a 
small egg and then add a pint of sour milk. Bake in a quick oven. 

2'. Breakfast Biscuit. — Take 1 pint of sweet milk, i^ cup melted lard or 
butter, a little salt, 1 tablespoonful baking powder and flour ertbugh for a 
stiflf batter. Drop from the spoon into greased tin and bake in a hot oven. 



lia THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

3. Southern Beaten Biscuit. — One quart of flour, a pinch ,of soda the 
size of a pea, % cup of sweet milk, ^ cup of ice water, 1 tea(Spoonful of salt, 
2 heaping tablespoonfuls of lard ; mix to a stiff dough and beat until it blisters 
and pops. The success depends upon the length of time it is beaten. 

4. Baking Powder Biscuit. — One quart of flour, 1 teaspoonfulof salt and 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted together, 1 tablespoonful of lard, 
thoroughly rubbed into the flour. Mix as soft as can be handled, with sweet 
milk. Roll into sheets % of an inch thick ; cut with small biscuit cutter and 
bake in hot oven about 15 minutes. 



, SANDWICHES. 

" Bad dinners go hand in hand with total depravity, while a properly fed man is 

already half saved." 

1. Ham Sandwiches. — Put 2 small pickles and 1 pound of cold boiled 
ham through a meat cutter; add a dash of pepper, a tablespoonful of mixed 
mustard and 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter; mix thoroughly, spread on 
thin slices of buttered bread, lay over top slices and cut into squares or fancy 
shapes. 

2. Chicken Sandwiches. — Take the meat of one well cooked and sea- 
soned chicken and chop it very fine. Melt 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
frying pan or skillet and when it begins to bubble add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
stir and eook— not brown ; then add 2 cups of sweet milk. After stirring until 
smooth and hot, add the chicken and % tablespoonful of curry powder and 
2 dashes of paprika (quantity depending on size of chicken). After all is 
well warmed, set aside to cool, then spread thick on a slice of buttered bread ; 
over this sprinkle a teaspoonful of finely chopped nuts, then lay on top 
another slice of bread. 

3. Apple and Celery Sandwiches. — Chop very fine % dozen of the small 
inside staHcs of celery and 2 large tart apples and sprinkle lightly with salt 
and then spread between thinly cut slices of buttered bread. 

4. Club Sandwiches. — Cut three thin slices of bread and then toast and 
butter them ; place a lettuce leaf on the lower slice, on top of this a piece of 
boneless cooked chicken, well seasoned; then another slice of buttered toast; 
on top of that another lettuce leaf, topped with thin slices of hot breakfast 
bacon, and on this the third slice of toast; on top of this last slice of bread 
lay strips of pickle cut lengthwise"; the bread and bacon should both be hot. 

5. Nut Sandwiches. — Take some chopped, roasted and salted peanuts; 
mix with mayonnaise, to spread easily; or, very finely chopped English wal- 
nuts may be used instead of the peanuts. Spread on buttered whole ^heat 
bread. 

6. Sweet Sandwiches. — Blanch and chop very fine 1 lb. of almonds and 
add 1 tablespoonful of orange flower water or rose water, the beaten white 
of an egg, 1 tablespoonful of sugar. Mix and spread on buttered bread. 

7. Salmon Sandwiches. — Chop fine a bit of salmon and sliced cucum- 
ber pickle, pour a little melted butter over it, dust with paprika and salt and 
spread on buttered bread. 

8. Nut and Cheese Sandwich. — Take equal parts of English walnuts 
(pounded to a meal) and grated cheese and moisten with thick cream. Sea- 
son to taste and spread on bread. 

9. French Sandwiches, — Mash 2 hard boiled eggs very fine to a paste; 



LIGHT BREADS, ETC. 113 

add 1 Neufchatel cheese and mash together; -then add a dash of cayenne 
pepper, a tablespoonful of onion juice and 3 Spanish peppers. 

10. Pimentos. — Make the following mayonnaise dressing: 1 egg, well 
beaten ; add sugar and salt to taste, a lump of butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour 
and some vinegar; boil until it thickens; then beat and when cold add a 
little sweet cream. Cut the pimentos in small bits, add mayonnaise and mix 
^11 together and spread on buttered bread. Cut in any form desired. 

11. Egg Sandwiches. — Grate hard boiled eggs upon two slices of but- 
tered bread, sprinkle with pepper and salt and put the two slices ci bread 
together. 

COOKIES. 

Now good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both. — Shakespeme. 

1. Crisp Chocolate Cookies. — Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 egg; 
1 cup of sour cream, 1 teaspoonful of soda ; mix with flour in soft dough ; add 
either cocoa or chocolate, according to taste. Roll thin and bake in mod- 
erate oven. 

2. Fruit Cookies.-^Beat three eggs, light ; add 1^^ cups of sugar, 1 cup 
of butter, 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of sweet milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of soda, 1 
teaspoonful each of ginger, cloves and cinnamon, 1 cup of seeded raisins and 
flour enough to make a stiff dough. 

3. Crumb Cakes. — Take three-fourths pint of lard, a pinch of salt, 1 
pint of sugar, a little cinnamon, 3 pints of cake crumbs, 1 pint of Orleans 
molasses, 1 pint of cold water, 1 teaspoonful of soda and enough flour to roll. 

4. Taylor Cakes. — One cup of sugar, 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of sour 
cream, 1 teaspoonful of soda, butter the size of an egg, 3 eggs, spices to 
taste, 4 cups of flour ; drop on pan with spoon ; sprinkle with sugar and bake.' 

5. Ginger Drop Cakes. — ^Take one cup each of molasses, sugar, short- 
ening and sour milk; 3 eggs; 1 teaspoonful each of soda, ginger, cinnamon 
and cloves; flour enough to make a stiff batter. Bake in gem pans. 

6. Mother's Caraway Cookies. — ^Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 4 
tablespoonfuls of milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon very full of soda dissolved in 2 
spoonfuls of milk. Add a handful of caraway seed. Knead hard as possible ; 
roll thin and bake. Good without the caraway and will keep a month if the 
children will consent. 

7. Oatmeal Cookies. — One cup of shortening, lard and butter; 3 eggs; 
lYs cups of sugar; 1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little water, just 
enough to dissolve the soda; 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon; 6 tablespoonfuls of 
sweet milk ; 1 cup of seeded raisins, chopped ; 3 cups of oatmeal, or rolled oats ; 
1 cup of flour, or enough to make a soft dough. 

8. Scotch Cookies. — Beat 1 cup of butter with 2 cups of sugar; add Vz 
cup of milk in which has been dissolved 1 teaspoonful of soda ; beat, 2 eggs- 
whites and yolks — separately ; mix 2 teaspoonfuls of 'cream of tartar with V2 
lb. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon ; mix together, adding more 
flour from time to time; roll andf,bake quickly. 

9. Nut Cookies. — Six tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 8 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of milk, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
and flour to thicken. Stir the butter into the sugar ; beat eggs light, and add 
them to butter and sugar; stir well; then add milk. Sift the powder with a 

2—8 



rJ 



114 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

little of the flour and then add a good glass of nut meats ; add enough flour to 
roll well. 

10. Hermits.— Take one and one-half cups of brown sugar, 1 cup of 
butter, 1 cup of chopped raisins, 1 cup of chopped nuts, 1 teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon and 1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in % cup of hot water. Then flour 
enough to mix like fruit cake. Drop in buttered pans and bake in moderate 
oven. 

11. Molasses Cookies. — One cup of molasses, 1 teaspoonful of soda 
beaten in 3 cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, % cup of sour cream, 3 well beaten 
eggs, 1 teaspoonful of ginger, 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, Yz teaspoonful of 
salt, and flour to make soft dough ; bake in a quick oven. 

12. Drop Ginger Cakes. — Take one cup of sugar, 3 cups of flour, 1 cup 
of molasses, 1 cup of boiling water, % cup of butter, 2 eggs, ly^ teaspoonfuls 
of soda, 1 teaspoonful of ginger, % teaspoonful of cinnamon, and a little 
grated nutmeg. 

13. Ginger Snaps^ — 'One cup each of sugar, molasses and butter, boiled 
together; when cool add 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful each of finger, cinnamon and 
soda ; flour to make a soft dough ; roll very thin and bake in a quick oven. 

14. Ginger Cookies.- — (Without eggs or butter.) " One-half pint of warm 
water, 1 pint of molasses, 1 cup of lard, 1 scant tablespoonful of soda, 1 table~ 
spoonful of ginger, % teaspoonful of baking powder, 1 cup of sugar; put one- 
half of the sugar in cookies and use rest to sprinkle on top before baking. 

15. Boston Cookies. — Cream ope cup of butter with 1% cups of sugar, 
add 3 eggs, dissolve 1 teaspoonful of soda in 1^^ tablespoonfuls of hot water 
and add, to the mixture; then to 3^/4 cups of flour add 1 teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, 1/^ teaspoonful salt; add part of floUr to mixture, then 1 cup of chopped 
walnuts, % cup of raisins and % cup of currants; then add rest of flour; drop 
from a spoon on greased pan and bake in a moderate oven. " 

16. Lemon Drops. — One cup granulated sugar, 2 ounces or 1 table- 
spoonful butter, Yz cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 2 eggs, a pinch of salt; 
flavor with lemon and drop on buttered pan. 

17. liocks. — One cup of butter, 2 cups of brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
of baking soda, % cup of hot water, 3 eggs beaten together, 1% cups of raisins 
or currants, lYs cups of English walnuts, 3 cups of flour, 1 teaspoonful of 
cinnamon ; drop on pan? and bake in quick oven, 

18. Peanut Cookies. — One-half cup of lard, 2 cupfuls of brown sugar, 1 
cup of milk, 2 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 1 cup of ground peanuts, 
flour enough to make a good cake batter ; roll thin ; cut into cookies ; bake 
in quick oven. 

19. Cream Cookies. — ^Two eggs, 1 cup sour cream, 1 cup butter, 3 cups 
sugar, 2 level teaspoonfuls soda. 

20. Lemon Cookies, — Tvro and one-half cups sugar, 1 cup lard, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, 1 pint milk, 5 cents worth oil of lenion, 3 cents worth bakers' 
ammonia dissolved in the milk. Deliciou§. 

21. Cornstarch Cookies. — Two teacups sugar, 1 teacup Gutter, 1 teacup 
sour cream, 1 teacup cornstarch, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful soda, flour sufficient 
to thicken ; drop from spoon on greased tins and bake. 

22. Cookies. — ^Two eggs, 1 tup sour cream, 1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 
2 teaspoonfuls soda, and sufficient flour to roll out. 

23. Oatmeal Macaroons. — Take 2^/2 cups oatmeal, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 
teaspoonful baking powder, 1 even teaspoonful butter, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 



UgMt BkfeAiDS, Etc lii 

2 eggs, beaten separately, putting in the well beaten whites last. Invert a 
heated granite baking pan and with a fork drop the mixture on the bottom 
about the size of a walnut and allow room to spread. Bake quickly in hot 
oven. 

34. Mince Crisp Cookies. — One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 well-beaten 
eggs, large spoonful of milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, enough flour 
to make quite stiff dough ; flavor with lemon or nutmeg. Brush tops with 
milk and sugar. 

25, Coofiies (Mother B's). — ^Two eggs, 2 cups granulated sugar, % 
cup butter, pinch of salt; mix; 1 teaspoonful soda in Yz cup sour milk; add 
flour to make a batter just thick enough to roll rather thin. 

FRITTERS. 

1. Potato Fritters. — One pint of boiled and mashed potato, % cup ol 
not milk, 3 tablespoon fuls of butter, 3 spoonfuls of sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a little nutmeg. Add the milk, butter, sugar and seasoning to the 
mashed potato, and then add the eggs well beaten; stir until very smooth 
and light, spread about ^ inch deep on a buttered dish and set away to 
cool; when cold, cut into squares, dip in beaten egg, and then in bread 
crumbs, and fry brown in boiling fat ; serve immediately. 

2. Corn Fritters. — One pint of cooked sweet corn, cut from cob> or 
canned corn may be used, % cup sweet milk, 1 well beaten egg, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 small cup of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Drop in hot lard or butter, and fry a nice brown. 

3. Fried Cream Fritters. — One-half cup sugar, 1 quart sweet milk^ 1 cup 
flour; take 1% pints of milk and put on stove with sugar; wet the flour with, the 
remainder of milk, and cook until quite thick. Pour into jelly pans that 
have been dipped in cold water, let stand until cold, then cut in 2-inch squares, 
dip in egg, then in crackei: crumbs, and fry in hot lard as for dpughnuts, a 
light brown. Serve hot with maple syrup. 

4. Oyster Fritters. — Take as many oystei-s as you want fritters, and 
wipe them dry> Make a batter as follows : one egg, well beaten ; add to it 
one cup of milk, % teaspoonful of salt, 1 pint pf flour, and 1 heaping teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder. Dip oysters one by one in the batter and when the 
fat is smoking hot, drop them in and fry brown. Serve hot. 

5. Rice Cakes. — One large cup of boiling rice, 3 eggs beaten separately, 
1 level tablespoonful sugar, a little salt ; beat thoroughly, and drop from a 
spoon into a well buttered hot skillet. 

6. Com Fritters or Mock Oysters. — Grate the corn from Yz dozen ears 
of sweet corn or cut it from the cobs and run through a vegetable chopper ; add 

3 tablespoonfuls of sweet milk or cream, 1 teaspoonful salt, I egg, 1 teacup 
flour. Drop in hot lard and brown both feides. Make the size of an oyster. 
Make a plenty for they will all be eaten. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

" The true essentials of a feast are only fun and f eed."— 0. W. Holmes. 
1. Doughnuts. — 

" One cup oi sugar, one cup of milk, 
Two eggs beaten fine as silk, 
Salt and nutmeg (lemon will do). 
Of baking powder teaspoons tw<>, 



iU THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK, 

Lightly stir the flour in, 

Roll on pie board not too thin ; 

Cut in diamonds, twist or rings. 

Drop with care the doughy things 

Into fat that briskly swells 

Evenly the spongy cells ; 

Watch with care the time 'for turning, 

Fry them brown just short of burning; 

Roll in sugar, serve when cool. 

Price a quarter for this rule." 

— Hazel A. Marquis. 

2. Improved Fat for Frying Doughnuts, Croquettes, Etc. — Fry out care- 
fully 3% lbs. of beef suet, add 1 lb. of fresh lard. After using, strain and put 
in small bucket and cover; may be used a number of times. 

3. Raised Doughnuts. — Scald 1 pint of milk and pour over Yz cup of 
lard and 1 cup of sugar. Add 1 cup of yeast and flour to make a stiff batter 
and let rise over night. In the morning add 1 egg and work in flour the 
same as mixing bread. Let the dough rise, cut out doughnuts, rise again 
and fry. 

4. Snow Balls. — ^Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar, % teaspoonful soda, flour enough t'o roll into balls ; 
fry in hot lard, dip in white of egg, and roll in fine white sugar. 

5. Fried Cakes. — One egg, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups sour milk, 1^ teaspoon- 
fuls lard, 2 teaspoonfuls soda. 

6. Doughnuts (Fine). — Two eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour milk, good 
pinch of nutmeg, level teaspoonful soda in milk, butter almost as large as 
walnut, pinch of salt, flour to roll Yz inch thick. , 

GEMS. 

1. Graham Gems. — One cup of sweet milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, 1 tgg, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder, a little salt and 3^ cups of 
graham flour. Bake slowly in gem pans. 

2. Com Gems. — One cup of corn meal, 2 cups of flour, 1 cup of sweet 
milk, ^ cup of sugar, % cup of butter, ? eggs, 4 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
a pinch of salt. Bake in a quick oven. 

3. Wheat Gems. — Three cups flour, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 3 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder ; stir well ; add 1 well-beaten egg, 4 tablespoonfuls melted 
lard, iy2 cups of swiet milk or water. 

MUFFINS. 

1. Muffins.— Two eggs, a pinch of salt, ,2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 cup milk, enough flour to make a stiff dough ; 
drop in muffin tins ; bake in quick oven. 

2. Com Muffins. — One-half cup of butter or lard, 2 eggs, % cup of sugar, 
1 cup of sweet milk, 3 cups of sifted flour, 1 cup of corn meal, 4 teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, Yz teaspoonful of salt ; beat thoroiighly and bake quickly. 

WAFFLES. 

1. Waffles. — Three eggs beaten separately, 1 quart of buttermilk, piece 
of butter the size of a walnut, pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful of baking soda, 
flour to thicken. Mix buttermilk, salt, melted butter and yolks; then add 



LIGHT BREADS, ETC. 117 

soda which has been moistened with a little of the buttermilk ; then add flour, 
and lastly the beaten whites. Bake in waffle irons. 

CORN DODGERS— CORN PONE— CORN CAKE. 

1. Corn Dodgers. — Place 2 cups of corn n'.eal in a bowl and pour over it 
enough boiling water to scald and moisten it. Stir it while pouring the 
water on; while hot add 1 tablespoonful of shortening; when cold add 1 
beaten egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Bake in gem 
pans or on the griddle. 

2. Com Cake. — ^Two eggs beaten light ; add 1 cup sugar, ^4 cup butter ; 
beat light; add 1 cup milk;, sift together 2 cups cornmeal, 1 cup flour, 3 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder and a small teaspoonful of salt; add to mixture 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

3. Com Pone. — ^Two eggs, ^ cup of shortening, 1^4 cups of sugar, 1 
cup of corn meal, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder and milk to make light cake 
batter. Bake in slow oven. 

BUNS. 

1. Currant Buns. — Beat 1 egg into a cup and fill with sweet milk ; mix 
with it % cup of yeast, 1 cup of sugar, 14 cup of butter, enough flour to 
make a soft dough. Let rise until very li|;ht ; then mold currants into bUns ; 
let rise a second time in pan; before bakmg glaze with a little molasses or 
sugar and milk. 

2. Buns That Boys Like. — To about as much light bread dough as for 
a loaf of bread, at the stage that it is light and ready for the pans, add % 
cup of lard or butter, ^/^ cup of sugar, 1 egg, % pint of warm water. Mix 
all to a smooth paste; thicken with flour; let rise; form into small biscuits; 
let rise and bake. This brings them just right for the evening meal; if 
wanted for midday dinner, use 1 quart of sponge in place of the dough. 

DUMPLINGS. 

1. Drop Dumplings. — One small cup of sweet milk or water, 1 egg, 1 
teaspoonful of baking powder, flour enough to make drop batter. Very good 
for meat stews of any kind. 

2.' Always Light Dumplings. — ^To'each cup of sifted flour, sift in 1 heap- 
ing teaspoonful of baking powder ; salt to taste Lwet with cold water and drop 
onto meat and bones ; cover the kettle and qook 20 minutes. 

3. Chicken Dumplings. — One cup sweet milk, 1 egg well beaten, 1 pint 
sifted flour, .% teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of baking powder; stir all 
well together and drop the batter, a spoonful at a time, into chicken or beef 
broth just checked from boiling. Let boil 15 minutes. These dumplings 
are very nice, 

CRULLERS. 
1. Crullers. — Dissolve 1 teaspoonful of soda in 4 tablespoonfuls of milk, 
or leave out one of milk and substitute 1 of wine. Strain it into % pint of 
flour and 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter or lard. Beat 4 eggs with 6 
heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar ; work them into the rest of the ingredients ; 
add flour to make stiff enough to roll out, then cut and fry in hot lard ; flavor 
with grated nutmeg. 



118 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

JUMBLES. t 

1. Jumbles. — One cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, % cup of sour cream, 
3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of salt and a little nutmeg; flour to make soft dough.' 
Bake quickly. 

2. Favorite Jumbles. — One cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of 
sweet milk, 4 cups of flour, 3 eggs and 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Mix 
thoroughly and drop on buttered tins with a large spoon ; sprinkle with sugar 
before baking. 

TOASTS. 

1. American Toast. — To 1 egg thoroughly beaten, add, a littFe salt and 
1 cup of sweet milk. Slice light bread arid dip into the mixture, allowing 
each slice to absorb some of the milk; then brown on a hot buttered griddle. 
Serve very hot. 

2. Good Toast. — Spread thin slices of light bread with butter, then cover 
with sugar; grate a little nutmeg and put a tablespoonful of cream on each 
slice; brown in the oven; serve hot. 

3. Dry Beef Toast. — One-half cup chopped beef picked in fragments and 
1 heaping tablespoonful butter; put in saucepan and when hot add 3 cups 
sweet milk; let it boil, then put in 3 well beaten eggs and pepper to taste. 
Toast thin slices of bread, dip them in hot salted water, arrange on a platter 
and pour over them the beef gravy. Horseradish may be served with this, 
or apple jelly, or currant jam. 

CRACKERS. 

1. Graham Crackers. — Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, % cup 
brown sugar, % cup of shortening, 1 quart of graham flour, salt to taste. Wet 
with milk ; roll into thin cakes, using white flour for rolling out. 

RUSKS. 

1. Children's Rusks. — Make soft sponge of 1 pint of milk, % cake of 
compressed yeast dissolved in lukewarm water, and sifted flour. Let rise 
over night. In the morning add % cup of melted butter, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 
1 egg and a little salt. Flavor with cinnamon. Sift in flour enough to make a 
firm dough. Mold into rolls, place in pans, let rise again arid bake in a quick 
oven. When done, dampen the tips slightly and sift on some powdered sugar. 

SCOTCH SCONES AND APPLE KOKER. 

1. Scotch Scones. — Sift together 1 quart of flour, % teaspoonful of salt, 
1 teaspoonful of sugar and 2 heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder; rub in 
1 large tablespoonful of butter,- cold ; add 2 beaten eggs and nearly i^ pint of 
sweet milk; mix into smooth dough; knead quickly and roll out to % of an 
inch in thickness; cut out with knife into squares about the size of soda 
crackers; fold each cornerwise, to form triangles; place in pan and brush 
over with egg and milk ; bake 10 minutes in hot oven. 

2. Apple Koker.— Ta 1 beaten egg add 1 cup of sweet milk and one 
tablespoonful melted butter; thicken with 3 heaping cups flour with 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder; spread on pans; put quartered apples thick over 
the top and sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon or nutmeg. Put on a few small 
bits of butter and bake. Serve warm with cream. 



CAKE MAKING. 119 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

1. Griddle Cakes. — One quart of sour milk, a pinch of salt, 1 egg, 1 
teaspoonful soda and flour to make of right thickness. 

2. Corn Meal Griddle Cakes. — ^Take one pint of either sour milk or but- 
termilk, one pint of corn meal, one egg, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful 
soda. Bake on a griddle. 

3. Graham Griddle Cakes. — Half a pint of corn meal, half a pint of flour, 
one pint of Graham flour, one heaping teaspoonful sugar, half a teaspoonful 
salt, one egg, one pint buttermilk, one teaspoonful soda. 

4. Buckwheat Cak(es. — One quart of lukewarm water, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of corn meal, 1 heaping teaspoonful of salt, % cake 
of yeast or ^^ cup of liquid yeast, and buckwheat to make a batter thin 
enough to pour. Let rise over night; in the morning stir well and add 3 
tablespoonfuls of molasses and % teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water; 
bake on hot griddle. Save enough batter to raise another mixing instead 
of using new batter. 

5. Egg Pancakes. — ^Two cups of flour, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, l^ tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, 2 eggs well beaten, enough milk to make a thin 
batter. Bake on a hot griddle. 

6; Potato Cakes. — ^Two cups of cold mashed potatoes, ^ cup of flour, % 
cup of~milk, 3 eggs, 2 teaspponfuls of baking powder, salt and pepper to 
taste ; stir the beaten yolks and milk into the potato, then the flour and baking 
powder sifted together; beat thoroughly, and lastly fold in the well beaten 
whites ; bake on a well buttered griddle. 



CAKE MAKING. 

(Including Recipes and Directions for Making All Kinds of Cakes, Frostings, 

Icings and Fillings.) 

Aye, to the leavening, but here's yet in the word hereafter the kneading, the making 
of the cake, the heating of the oven, and the baking. Nay, ydu must stay the cooling, 
too, or you may chance to burn your mouth. — Shakespeare. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 

Only the best oi materials should be used for cake. The pans for baking 
should be perfectly clean and free from odor and should not be used for any 
other purpose. 

The butter should not be oily but just soft enough to cream well with 
sugar. In making white cake do not use colored butter for the coloring matter 
will not disappear like the natural color does. If there is too much" salt in 
the butter it should be freshened by working it in cool water. Use only the 
very best. 

The sugar should generally be either powdered sugar or " coffee A." 
If granulated sugar is used it should be very fine. Use pulverized sugar for 
deltcate cakes; coffee-crushed, powdered and sifted for rich cakes; the best 
brown sugars far dark cakes; granulated and " Toffee A*" for fruit cakes and 
jelly cakes. 



120 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

The eggs should be fresh and cold to beat well. In summer cool them 
on ice or in cold water. Many of our best cooks think they get better results 
by whipping with a fork or wire spoon than with a beater. Always beat the 
eggs in an earthen vessel and never in tin; a pinch of salt added makes them 
come to a froth quicker. The whites and yolks should be beaten separately. 

Most cooks grease the cake pans with fresh lard. If butter is used it 
should not be too salty or the cake will stick. Coyer the bottoms of the 
pans with white or manilla paper. As soon as taken from the oven set the 
pan upon a cloth wrung out of water for two or three minutes and the cake 
will not stick when being taken from the pan. 

Always cream the butter and sugar first, then add the yolks of eggs, milk, 
and lastljr the flour and whites of eggs. 

In mixing cake, do not stir, but beat it thoroughly, unless otherwise di- 
rected, bringing the batter up from the bottom of the dish with every stroke. 
Use a long handled wooden spoon. An iron spoon turns the mixture black. 
Never beat a cake in tin but use earthen or stone ware. 

Remember that sour milk and soda go together ; and sweet milk and 
baking powder go together ; and that baking powder combinjes the properties 
of soda and cream of tartar and is always used alone. 

To one quart of flour use 2% teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

To one quart of flour use 1 teaspoonful of soda and 3 teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar. 

When molasses is used the cake should always be baked in a moderate 
Oven for the molasses makes it burn easily. 

In cake making do not try to economize too much' in materials as a cake 
is often spoiled by some petty economy. 

It is a bad thing to disturb a cake or even open the oven door for the first 
ten minutes while baking or until the cake is " set," but if it is baking unevenly 
it should be turned very gently, keeping the oven door open as short a time 
as possible. Outside air affects the baking and will make the cake fall. 

Test with a broom splint or knitting needle. When the cake is done 
none of the mixture will adhere. ~^ 

If the oven bakes too fast on the bottom, place the grate under the cake ; 
if too hot on the top, set a pie pan of water on the top grate. 

For baking sponge or pound cake, the oven should be hot enough to turn 
a piece of white paper a rich yellow in 5 minutes. For cookies, layer cakes 
or cup cakes, the paper should turn a dark brown in 5 minutes. For baking 
bread, throw a little flour on the bottom of the oven and if it browns quickly 
without taking fire the heat is sufficient. For baking puff paste, the heat 
should be greatest first and decrease later. This is to keep the paste in shape. 
When the oven is too hot the temperature may be reduced by placing a pan 
of cold water in it. After a cake is in, Should the oven be found too hot so 
that the cake browns almost immediately, lift a lid off the stove and cover 
the cake with a buttered paper. The cake will not be as nice as if it were 
not browned so quickly but this is all you can do. 

Sprinkle a little flour over the top of a cake to prevent the icing from 
running off. Pour on a small quantity of icing, spread it over the cake with 
a broad knife, which dip frequently in hot water to keep it from sticking. 
Never try to ice a cake while hot, and let layer cakes get nearly cold before 
putting together. * ^ 

Gingerbread should be baked with a moderate lire as it is easily burned. 



CAKE MAKING. 121 

Put only a little of the dough on the board at once in making cookies. 
It is more easily managed in this way. Cookies must be gotten into the pans 
as soft as possible. ' 

The fire should be fixed, the pans, greased and everything in readiness 
I'efore the cake is mixed if baking powder is used for it effervesces but once 
and there should be no delay in baking. The cdke should rise in the oven 
and not the mixing bowl. 

Bread and cake pans made of sheet iron are better than those made of tiij. 

CAKE RECIPES. 

1. Buttermilk C:ike. — One-half cup of butter; 2 cups of brown sug^r; 
2 cups of buTtermilk ; 1 lb. of currants ; 1 lb. of raisins ; 1 lb. of citron. Use 
one cup of flour in which to dredge the raisins; two level teaspoonfuls of 
soda dissolved in milk; cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon to taste and flour to 
stiffen. Bake two hours. 

,3. Delicate Cake. — Two cups of sugar; whites of 4 eggs ; i/^ cup butter ; 
% cup Sweet milk ; 3 cups flour ; 1 teaspoonful either soda or baking powder ; 
2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Flavor with lemon. 

3. Grandma's Cake.— Two cups of medium brown sugar, Yz cup melted 
butter beaten well with 2 eggs. When thoroughly beaten add a small cup 
of sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of baking soda, 3 cups of sifted flour and 1 tea- 
spoonful of baking powder ; 1 teaspoonful of vanilla ; bake well in moderate 
oven either in loaf or layers. If in layers use any filling desired. 

4. Economical Cake.^ — One cup of sugar, 1 egg, % cup of milk, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter, 1 tablespoonful of baking powder, 2 cups of flour. 

5. Caramel Cake.— Two eggs^ 2 cups of brown sugar, ^2 cup butter, % 
cup of sour cream, 1 cujp grated chocolate, % cup hot water, % teaspoonful 
of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder ; mix chocolate and hot water together, 
then add soda and also 2yz cups ql flour. 

6. Weiddiiig Cake. — Five pounds sugar, 50 eggs, 5 lbs. flour, 5 lbs. 
butter, 15 lbs. raisins, 10 lbs. currants, 3 lbs. citron, 1 pint brandy, 4 ounces 
nutmeg, 4 ounces mace, 1 ounce cinnamon, ^4 ounce cloves; this will make 
43 or 44 pounds, is unequalled and will keep 20 years. 

7. Sultana Cake. — One pound flour, % lb. butter, % lb. sugar, 8 large 
eggs, 1 lb. Sultana raisins, juice and grated rind of a lemon, i/^ grated nutmeg. 
Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add flour, then yolks of eggs well beaten, 
next flavoring, then raisins dredged with flour, lastly the whites of eggs 
beaten very stiff. Bake one hour and a half in a slow oven. 

8. Taylor Cake — (A Fine Fruit Cake). — Seven eggs, 1^4 lbs. butter, 
1 pint boiled cider, 7^^ cups flour, 1 lb. currants, 2 lbs. raisins, % lb. citron, % 
lb. orange peel, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon- 
ful cloves, 3 nutmegs. 

9. Fruit Cake. — One cup molasses, 2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 
^ cup milk, 4 eggs; 4 cups flour, 3 cups stoned raisins, 3 cups currants, 1 cup 
chopped citron, 1 teaspooijful nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon, y2 
teaspoonful cloves, 1 teaspoonful of soda and 2 of cream of tartar or 3 of 
baking powden 

JO. Marble Cake. — ^White Part. — One cup of white sugar, whites of 4 
eggs, % cup of butter, % cup of sweet milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, 1 teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla and 2i/^ cups of sifted flour. Dark 
Part. — One cup of brown sugar, yolks of 4 eggs, % cup of molasses, Yz cup of 



132 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

butter, % cup of sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of ground cloves, 1 teaspoonful 
of mace, 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in a little milk and added after part of the flour is stirred in; V/z 
cups of sifted flour. Drop a spoonful of the light then the ddrk, alternately, 
into a well buttered cake pan. 

11. Myrna Marble Cake. — White Part. — One clip of white sugar, whites 
of 4 eggs, % cup of butter, % cup of sweet milk, 2 teaspponfuls of baking 
powder, 1 teaspoonful of lemon or vanilla, 2% cups of Sifted flour. Dark 
Part. — One cup of brown sugar, yolks of 4 eggs, % cup of molasses, ^4 cup 
of butter, Yo cup of sour milk, add cloves, cinnamon or strawberry. One 
teaspoonful of soda and 1^^ cups of flOur. 

12. Sponge Cake. — Three eggs beaten for 5 minutes, 1 cup of sugar, y-t 
cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful of lemon, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder; bake sloVvly. 

13. Angel Food. — One large tumbler of granulated sugar, % tumbler 
of powdered sugar, 1 tumbler of sifted flour, whites of 11 eggs, 1 tedsppon- 
ful of cream of tartar. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth; sift the sugar 4 times; 
sift the cream of tartar through the flour 4 times; add the stigar to the 
eggs slowly, as for frosting; add flour, stirring lightly and as little as pos- 
sible; flavor with almond or vanilla. Bake in a deep Unbutterfed pan for % 
of an hour. When done remove from oven and turn upside down, allowing 
the edges of the pan to rest on some supports. When entirely cold remove 
carefully from the pan. Much of your success depends upon the baking and 
handling. , 

14. Ice Cream Cake. — One-half cup of butter, l^^ cups of powdered 
sugar, 14 cup of milk, ^2 cup of cornstarch, 1% cups of flour, 2 level tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, y^ teaspoonful vanilla, whites of 6 eggs ; beat the 
butter to a cream, add gradually the sugar, then the milk alternately with 
the flour to keep it from curdling. Stir in lightly the beaten whites of the 
eggs the last thing before putting into the pans. Bake in moderate oven for 
20 minutes. This makes 2 layers. 

15. Devil's Food.-— Two cups of brow;n sugar, 2 eggs, ^ cup sweet milk, 
% cup butter, 2 ctips sifted flour, 1 teaspgonful of baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoonful of soda, 1 cup grated chocolate, % c'up brown sugar, % cup sweet 
milk. Cook to thick cream, add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla and stir into the 
batter hot, Bake in 2 layers in a moderate oven. 

16. Devil Cakci— One small cake Baker's chocolate, 2 cups granulated 
sugar, 1 cup biitter, 1 cup buttermilk or sour niilky 3 cups sifted floUr, 1 level 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water, 6 eggs beaten separately. Put choco- 
late in bowl, set in boiling water and dissolve, add sugar and butter and beat 
light ; add yolks of eggs, then milk and soda ; add flour and beaten whites of 
eggs at once and beat till well mixed* Bake in layers and ice»> .. 

17. Jelly Roll. — One cup sugar, 4 eggs, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspooilful baking 
powder; beat well together. Bake in large shallow pan, spread with jelly 
and roll while warm. 

18. Quick Cake. — Three eggs, 2^^ cups of flour, % cup butter, Yi cup 
lard, 1 cup of milk, 1 cU'p of sugar, 4 teaspoorifuls of hzk'mg powder, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla. 

19. One Egg Cake. — One tablespoonful of butter, one cup of sugar, 1 
egg beaten, % cup milk, IY2 cup flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powdet 



CAKE MAKING. 133 

20. Nut Cake. — One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 eggs, 1 cup milk, 3 cups 
flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 cup nut kernels. 

21. Plain Walnut Cake. — ^Two cups of flour, 1 teaspodnful of baking 
powder, % cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup milk; beat all together and 
add 1 cup chopped walnuts and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

22. Lemon Cake. — Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 7 eggs, 1% pints of 
flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 1 teaspoonful lemon extract. Riib the 
butter and sugar to a light cream; add the eggs two at a time, beating 5 
minutes. After each addition add the flour sifted with the powder and the 
extract mixed into a medium batter. Bake 40 minutes in paper lined tin in 
Aioderate oven. 

23. Ribbon Cake. — ^Two cups sugar, l^ cup butter, 4 eggs, 1 cup milk, 
3% cups flour, spices, 3 level teaspoonfuls baking powder, i/^ lb. finely chopped 
figs, V2 cup raisins stoned and cut into pieces, 1 taBlespoonful of molasseSj, 
Cream the butter, add gradually the sugar and well beaten egg yolks, tlien 
the milk. Sift the baking powder and flour together thoroughly, then add 
the egg whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake one-half of the mixture in a 
layer Cake pan. To the remainder add the fruit, molasses and spices to taste. 
Bake and put the layers together with icing. 

24. Gold and Silver C^ke. — One cup of white sugar, yolks of 4 eggs well 
beaten, Yz cup of butter, ^ cup of milk, 2 cups of flour, 1 tablespoonful of 
baking powder. Same for the silver, except use the whites of eggs. 

25. White Mountain Cake. — Three-fourths cup of butter, 2 cups sugar, 
whites of 7 eggs, 1 cup cornstarch, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, 2 cups 
flour. 

Filling.-— One-half cup cold water, 2 cups sugar ; boil until it threads, then 
beat into the whites of two eggs ; flavor with vanilla. 

26. Eticbory Nut Cake. — One cup of chopped nuts, % cup butter, 3 eggs, 
1^2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, 3 cups flour ; cream the sugar and butter and then 
add milk, then yolks of eggs, well beaten, then .flour well sifted with heaping 
teaspoonful of baking powder, then nuts and whites oi eggs well beaten. 

27. Lemon Jelly Cake. — Four tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 cups of coffee 
sugar, 4 eggs, leaving white of one for frosting; beat whites of the eggs 
separately; mix yolks with butter and sugar; add whites last after flour is 
added ; 1 cup of mijk, 3% ^ups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder mixed 
with flour, 1 teaspoonful of lemon extract. 

Filling. — ^ne egg, 1 citp of sugar, juice and grated rind of one lemon, 
1 tal?lespopnful of water, 1 teaspoonful of flour. Boil till it thickens ; when 
cdol,' spread between layers. ' 

28. Princp of Wales Cake. — White Part — One-half cup sugar, % cup 
butter, Vz cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoonful vanilla, 2 teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, whites of 3 eggs. Dark Part. — One-half cup butter, 1 cup 
brown sugar, yolks of 3 eggs, % cup sour milk, 2 cups ffoiir, 1 tablespoonful 
molasses, % teaspoonful cloves, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful nut- 
meg, 1 teaspoonful s©da dissolved in warm water, 1 cup raisins; bake each 
portion in two layers and use white boiled icing. 

Icing. — One-half cup water, l^^ cups sugar; cook until it threads, then 
stir until it is smooth; 

89. Angel Cake<r— One and a h^Jf tumblers of pulverized sugar, whites 
of 11 eggs, 1 tumbler of flour, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla; sift flour and cream of tartar three times: sift sugar once; then sift 



134 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

flour and sugar together three times. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, then very 
lightly add sugar and flour. Bake at once in a slow oven, 40 minutes. Turn 
the pan upside down to cool. Do not grease the tin. 

30. Anna's Cup Cake. — One-half cup of sweet milk, % cup of butter, 2 
eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Can 
use this for many kinds of cake, with or without fruit, with different kinds 
of flavoring and different kinds of filling; bake in loaf or layer, or in patty 
pans. 

31. Chocolate Cake.— One cup of sour milk, 1 cup of molasses, % cup 
of butter or lard, yolks of two eggs, 3 cups of flour. 

Frosting. — One square of chocolate, 1 cup of sugar, white of one egg, 1 
teaspoonful of vanilla. 

32. Cornstarch Loaf Cake. — ^Three-fourths cup of butter, 1^4 cups of 
sugar, 1 cup of sweet milk, 3 eggs, or whites of four, 3 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, % cup of cornstarch, enough flour to make a moderately stiff batter ; 
flavor to suit taste. 

33. Centennial Cake. — One cup of butter, 3 cups of sugar, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 4 cups flour, 3 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder, 5 eggs; beat the 
whites separately and add the last thing before baking ; flavor to suit. 

34. Cocoa Cakes. — Cream Yz cup of butter; add ^ cup of cocoa, the 
beaten yolks of three eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, % cup of 
water, then the beaten whites of 3 eggs, 1^ cups of flour, and 3 teaspoonfels 
of baking powder. Bake in gem pans. 

35. Delicate Cocoanut Cake. — One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, 
. whites of 3 eggs, % cup of sweet milk, 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of 

baking powder; bake in a long pan; make boiled icing and stir in one large 
cup of cocoanut ; spread thickly on top of cake, sprinkling fresh grated cocoa- 
nut on top. 

36. Crumb Cake. — Three cups of flour, 1% cups of sugar, % cup of 
butter or lard; mix sugar, flour and butter together and take out ^ cup for 
crumbs ; into the balance put 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, % cup of 
milk and 1 egg; flavor with nutmeg; make out in two loaves and sprinkle 
crumbs over the top and hake. Better when eaten warm. 

37. Cheap Cake. — One-half cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, % cup of sweet 
milk,*3 eggs, saving out the white of one for icing; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, and flour enough to make thick but not stiff. This can be baked in a 
square loaf and cut in squares. 

38. Coffee Cake. — One cup of melted butter, 3 cups of brown sugar, 1 cup 
of strong coffee, 4 cups of flour, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful- of cloves, cinnamon 
and nutmeg; 1 cup of raisins, boiled and seeded; 3 heaping teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. 

39. Clara FoUett's Cake. — Cream half a cup of butter ; add % cup of 
cocoa, the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, 1 cup of sugat, 
and y^ cup of water, then the beaten whites of eggs and 1^ cups of flout 
with 3 heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

40. French Cake.— One cup of milk, 1% cups of sugar, 3 cups of flour, 
4 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2 eggs, % teaspoonful of soda, li/^ teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar ; flavor according to taste. Put the soda 4n the milk, and the 
cream of tartar in the flour. ^ > 

41. Feather Cake. — Cream 1 tablespoonful of butter ; add 1 cup of sugar 



CAKE MAKING. 125 

then 1 egg well beaten, V/z cups of flour, % cup of sweet milk ; beat well ; 
add 2 level teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake 20 minutes. 

43, Gospel Cake. — ^Three and one-half cups of flour, (1st Kings 4-22) ; 1 
cup of butter (Judges 5-25) ; 3 cups of sugar (Jeremiah 6-20) ; 2 cups of 
raisins (1st Sam. 30-12) ; 1 cup of water (Genesis 24-17) ; 1 cup of almonds 
(Genesis 43-11) ; 6 eggs (Isaiah 10-14) ; 1 tablespoonful of honey (Exodus 15- 
21) ; a pinch of salt (Leviticus 2-13) ; 3 eggs Tyolks) ; 1 pint of milk ; spices, 

2 tablespoonfuls. Follow Solomon's advice for making good boys and you 
will have a good cake. (Prov. 12-14.) 

43. Silver Cake. — One cup of milk, whites of 6 eggs, 2 cyps of sugar, % 
cup of butter, 4 cups of flour, % teaspoonful salt, 2 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der, 1 teaspoonful almond extract; cream the sugar and butter; then add al- 
ten!&tely the milk and flour, having sifted the flour, baking powder and salt 
well together ; then add extract and the well beaten whites of eggs ; beat well 
and bake in loaf pan in moderate oven. 

44. Lady Cake. — One-half cup of butter, 1^ cups of sugar, % cup of 
sweet milk, 2 cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, whites of four 
eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Flavor with almond, peach or rose water. 

45. A Cheap Fruit Cake. — One cup of sour milk, 1 cup of sugar, 21^ 
cups of flour, 1 cup of raisins, 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, allspice or cloves, 
1 egg. butter the size of an egg ; good. If desired, add half teaspoonful soda. 

46. Black Fruit Cake. — One pound of brown sugar^ 1 pound of butter, 
10 eggs, 2 pounds of raisins, 3 pounds of currants, 2 tablespoonfuls of cinna- 
mon, 1 tablespoonful of ginger, 1 teaspoonful of cloves, 1 nutmeg, 3 tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, y^ cup of cold Water, % teacup of molasses, % 
pound of citron, flour enough to make it the consistency of pound cake. Rub 
the butter and sugar together; beat the eggs> then mix; add the molasses, 
then the flour and fruit. This will make 2 large loaves. Bake IVz hours 
with a slow fire; bake in pans with stems. 

4:7. Farmer's Fruit Cake. — ^Twp cups of dried apples, soaked over night, 
chop in the morning and cook well in 3 cups of jnolasses, either maple or 
Orleans; after the apples are done let them get cold; flour same as for 
other fruit cake. Make following batter : One cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, 

3 eggs, 1 cup of sour milk, 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon and cloves, 1 
tablespoonful of soda in milk and 5 cups of flour. Can add 1 cup of raisins^ 
if you choose, with the apples. Bake in moderate oven. 

48. White Fruit Cake. — ^Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup of 
sweet milk, % c"P of flour, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, whites of 5 
eggs, % lb. sliced citron, 2 cups cocoanut, meats from 1 quart hickory nuts, 
or use almonds. 

49. Minnehaha Cake. — One-half cup of butter, lYz cups of sugar, 1 cup 
of sweet milk, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 3 cups of flour. 

50. Morangtarta. — One pound of granulated sugar, whites of ten eggs, 
well beaten ; one pound of almonds, grated and well dried by allowing them 
to stand over night ; mix the sugar and almonds together and Seat slowly 
into the whites of eggs. Put in a buttered pan sprinkled with a few bread 
crumbs and bake slowly for an hour. To be eaten with fruit and whipped 
cream. (Very Fine.) 

51. One Egg Cake.— ^One egg, 1% cups of sugar, ^ cup of butter, 1 cUp 
of sweet milk, 2% cups of flour, 3V^ teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

53. Queen Cake. — Two cups of flour, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of milk, 3 



126 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE ^OOK. 

eggs, 1 large tablespoonful of butter, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder; flavor 
to taste ; beat the butter, sugar and eggs together ; then add the milk and 
flour, mixed with the powder. Bake in shallow pans in quick oven. 

53. Sunshine Cake.— Beat the yolks of 5 eggs thick with a cup of granu- 
lated sugar; a pinch of salt and % cup of flour, which has been sifted with 
% teaspoonful of cream of tartar ; add to it carefully the whites of 7 eggs, 
whipped very stiff; flavor with lemon or orange. 

54. Tea Cake.— One tablespoonful melted butter, 1 egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 
teaspoonful baking powder, % cup milk, 2 cups flour. 

55. Velvet Cake. — One-half cup of butter, IVz cups pulverized sugar, 
whites of 4 eggg, 1 cup of sweet milk, 2 cups of flour, Yz cup of cornstarch, 1 
large teaspoonful of baking powder, vanilla. 

56. White Loaf Cake. — Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 ct^ of 
sweet milk, 3 cups of flour measured before sifting, 3 rounding teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, whites of 9 eggs ; measure with a pint cup ; flavor to 
taste ; ice with 2 cups of sugar and the whites of 3 eggs ; add nearly a cup of 
boiling water to sugar, and cook until it will break in water, then pour it 
slowly with left hand over well beaten whites, while beating hard with the 
right hand. 

57. White Cake. — One-half cup of butter, 1% cups of sugar, % cup ol 
milk, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powdet, 2 cups of flour and the whites of 4 eggs, 
well beaten and ^dded last ; flavor to taste. 

58. Washington Cake. — One and three-fourths cups of flour, 1 cup of 
sugar, % cup of butter, 1 egg, % cup of sweet milk, 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, 1 teaspoonful of lemon extract. Bake in three round tins; when 
done, put a layer of apple sauce between and on top of the cake. Jelly or 
jam may be substituted, and the cake served with whipped cream or sauce. 

59. Cream Cake.-^ne cup of sugar; 2 eggs, w«ll beaten in a cup, fill 
up with sweet cream ; 8 cups of flour ; 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake 
in 2 layers. 

Filling. — One and one-fourth cups of sugar, % cup of milk, pinch of salt, 
4 teaspoonfuls of cocoa, butter size of walnut, vanilla to flavor ; cook soft and 
beat while cooling and spread on cake. 

60. Custard Cake. — One teacupful of sugar, 3 eggs, 3 teaspoonfuls melted 
butter, Ys teacup of sweet milk, 1 teacup of sifted flour, 1^^ teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder ; sift the baking powder in the flour ; beat the whites and yolks 
separately ; add the butter, melted just enough to measure well. 

Custard. — One pint of milk, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 tablespoon- 
ful' of cornstarch. 

61. Chocolate Caramel Cake. — One and one-half cups of granulated 
sugar, y2 cup of butter, 1 cup of milk, 3 cups of sifted flour, 3 teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, beaten whites of 4 eggs. Bake in layers. 

Filling. — ^Whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 11/4 lbs. of confec- 
tioner's or, XXXX sugar added gradually. Flavor with 1 teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Spread on layers and allow to stand until cold. Melt 3 squares of 
Baker's chocolate in a small dish over the teakettle and spread very lightly 
over the hardened white icing. Cdcoanut may be used instead of chocolate, if 
preferred, but must be put on before the white icing hardens. 

63. Fig Cake. — Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 31^ cups of flour, 
% cup of sweet milk, whites of H eggs, 8 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake 
in layers. 



CAKE MAKING. 137 

Filling. — One pound of 6gs, chopped fine and put in a stew pan on stove ; 
pour over it a teacup of sugar. Cook all jtogether until soft and smooth. Let 
cool and spread between layers. 

63. Cream Puffs.— *One cup of boiling water poured on ^ cup of butter ; 
1 cup of flour, stirred into the boiling water; boil 2 minutes, let cool, then 
add 3 eggF ?mbeaten and beat well ; bake % hour, slowly at first. The puffs 
will fall if no'i baked enough. Bake on buttered tins until a golden brown. 

Ciistard. — One cup of milk, Vz cup of sugar, 1 egg, 3 teaspoonfuls of flour. 
Cut a hole in the side of puff and fill with custard. 

64. Breakfast Cake. — One cup of sugar, 2 cups of flour, % cup bf butter ; 
rub well with hands and set aside Yz cup of the mixture ; in the remainder put 
one egg, 1 cup of sweet milk, and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder in enough 
flour to make a stiff batter. Put in shallow pan and sprinkle the Yz cup of 
crumbs over the top. Bake in a moderate x)ven. 

65. Apple Cake. — Make a thick batter of 2 cups of flour, % teaspoonful 
of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, % cup of butter, 1 egg, 1 scant 
cup of milk. Put it in a long shallow pan and press lightly into the top wedges 
of peeled, quartered and cored apples ; 4 apples will be all that are needed for 
the cake. Sprinkle 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar over the top and bake brown. 
Serve with cream or soft sauce. 

66. Pork Cake. — One pound fat pork, 1 lb. seeded raisins, 1 lb. seeded 
dates, 1 lb. currants, 1 lb. figs, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful gfround 
cloves, 2 cups molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful soda, 8 cups flour, 1 pint 
of hot water poured over the flour and let cool. Mix all together and bake. 

67. Roll Jelly Cake. — One cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoon- 
fuls sweet milk, i/^ teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. Bake and 
when done spread with jelly, roll up and wrap a napkin around it. 

68. Chocolate Loaf Cake. — ^Two cups brown sugar, ^ cup butter, 
creamed, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful vanilla, Ys cake Baker's chocolate, Yz cup 
buttermilk, % teaspoonful soda in the buttermilk and when foaming add Yz 
cup boiling water and pour quickly over the grated chocolate"; 3 cups sifted 
flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

69. Spice Cake.— One cup of sugar, 1 cup of molasses, Yz cup of butter 
and lard mixed, 1 cup of sour milk, 2 eggs, 3 cups flour, 1 teaspoonful each of 
cloves and cinnamon, 2 teaspoonfuls of soda. Bake in 4 layers. 

70. Johnny Cake. — 

" Two cups Indian, one cup wheat. 
One cup sour milk, one cup sweet, 
One cup good eggs that you can eat, 
_ One-half cup molasses, too, 
One-hal£ cup sugar add thereto. 
Salt and soda, each a spoon. 
Mix up quickly and bake it soon." 

71. Maple Cake. — One cup molasses, 1 cup dark maple sugar, 1 cup but- 
termilk, S large tablespoonfuls shortening, 1 tablespoonful ginger, 2 small tea- 
spoonfuls soda, flour to make not too stiff. 

72. Dolly Varden Cake. — One cup sugar, 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 2 cups flour, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake iii two layers, 
leaving enough in the dish for one of them, to which add Yz cup currants and 
1 teaspoonful each of ground cinnamon, allspice and cloves. Put the layers 
together with frosting flavored with lemon. 

73. Good Almond Cake, — One cup coffee "A" sugar, Yz cup butter 



128 THE PEOPLE'S HOME REaPE BOOK. 

(small part lard), % cup milk or water, whites of 3 eggs, 1^ cups flour, iVg 
teaspoonfuls baking powder; bake in 3 layers. 

74. Layer or Loaf Cake. — One cup granulated sugar, scant % cup butter, 
2 eggs, saving white of one for frosting, % cup mi'k, 1% cups flour, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder and flavoring. This cake is a standby for all 
occasions and will keep moist for several days. Cocoa may be added for solid 
chocolate cake. 

75. Spice Cake. — One cup sugar, % cup butter, 2 eggs, % cup molasses, 
1 cup sour milk, 2^^ cups flour, 1 teaspoonful each of soda, cloves, cinnamon 
and a little nutmeg. If fruit is added this makes a very good fruit cake. 

76. Cheap Fruit Cake. — One cup sugar, i^ cup butter, 1 cup sour milk, 

1 teaspoonful each cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg and soda, 2 cups flour, 1 
cup raisins. 

77. Lightning Clouse. — Sift together in a bowl, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Fill a cup % full melted butter, break 

2 eggs into this, fill cup with milk, add to dry mtasure, mix thoroughly and 
bake in two layers. Filling of whipped cream. This is a very good quick 
cake. 

78. Surprise Cake. — Take one egg, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of butter; 
beat all together; then take a cup of sweet milk with two teaspoonfuls 
of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it; then mix all 
together and thicken with flour. If desired, a little less soda and cream of 
tartar may be used. You will be surprised to see what a nice cake this makes. 

79. Plain Cake. — One cup sweet milk, 1 cup sugar, ^ cup molasses, 
% cup butter, 3 cups flour, 1 cup raisins, 2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 
1 teaspoonful of soda, salt, cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg; add milk and 
soda just before putting into oven. 

80. Devil Cake. — One egg, i/^ cup sugar, ^2 cup sweet milk, l^ cup 
grated, unsweetened chocolate; cook until thickened and let cool. Cream 
1 cup sugar with i^ cup butter; add 2 eggs beaten separately, % cup sweet 
milk, 2 cups flour, % teaspoonful vanilla, i^ teaspoonful soda dissolved in 
milk; mix all thoroughly and add chocolate paste; beat well; bake in layers 
and white frost it. 

FROSTINGS, ICINGS AND FILLINGS. 

1. Chocolate Filling for Ca!^e. — Three-fourths cup of sweet milk, 1 cup 
of sugar, 1% cakes of sweet chocolate, 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon extract. Boil 
until thick. * 

2. Marshmallow Filling or Icing. — Put ^ cup of water and one cup of 
granulated sugar over the fire together and boil until it forms a soft ball 
when dropped into cold water. Now pull apart % pound of marshmallows, 
put them into a double boiler with 2 tablespoonfuls of hot water and stir until 
melted. Then pour the hot syrup gradually into the marshmallow mixture, 
beating all the time ; add a teaspoonful of vanilla and beat until cold. 

3. Icing Without Boiling.— Butter the size of a walnut; the white of 
1 egg, not Ijeaten ; enough pulverized sugar to spread nicely, according to 
the size of the egg. Mix all together until smooth. Put on cake when cold. 

4. Caramel Icing.— One cup of brown sugar, 11/^ cups of maple sugar, 
% cup of butter, % cup of milk, 1 pound pecan nuts, 2 tablespoonfuls vanilla ; 
boil together 10 minutes the butter, milk and sugar; add the chopped nuts 



FROSTINGS, ICINGS AND FILLINGS. 129 

and boil 3 minutes longer; remove from fire and add vanilla; stir until cool, 
then spread on the cake. 

5. Boiled Icing. — The whites of 8 eggs, 2 cups of granulated sugar, 
citric acid the size of a pea, a few drops of vanilla. Barely cover the sugar 
with water, and boil until it hardens in water. Pour it slowly into thebeaten 
whites of eggs, beating hard all the time ; add citric acid dissolved in a few 
drops of hot water and the vanilla. Beat until cool and of proper consistency 
to spread on cake. 

\ 6. Icing for Cookies. — ^Take 1 cup of sugar and boil until it will get 
hard. Pour over the well-beaten white of 1 egg; stir until cool. 

7. Chocolate Cream Frosting. — White of 1 egg beaten to a stiff froth, 
and an equal quantity of cold water; add confectioner's sugar until thick 
enough to spread; flavor with vanilla; spread % inch thick. on cake; melt 
Yz cake of Grerman sweet chocolate over hot water ; add teaspoonful of boiling 
water to chocolate, beating well, and pour it over the frosting on the cake ; 
it will remain soft and creamy for a week, cutting without breaking, and 
is delicious. "" 

8. Maple Caramel Frosting. — Add 1 cup of cream to, 3 cups of broken 
and rolled maple sugar. Boil until it hardens in water (it will take about 
fifty minutes) ; beat when half cool until it becomes creamy, and then 
spread on cake. 

9. Lemon Jelly Filling. — One-fourth pound of butter, 4 eggs, juice of 
4 lemons and grated rind of two, % cup white sugar; mix all well together 
and boil 1 minute, stirring all the time; when cold spread between cakes. 

10. Custard Filling. — One cup milk, yolks of 4 eggs, % cup sugar, 1 
dessert spoonful of flour, % pound almonds, reserving 30 split for putting on 
icing on top of cake. Add the almonds chopped when the filling is cold and 
put between layers of cake. Ice as desired. 



MEATS, POULTRY, GAME, FISH, OYSTERS 
AND CROQUETTES. 

Some hae meat and canna eat. 
And some would eat that want it; 
But we hae meat, and we can eat, 
Sae let the Lord be thankit. 

, — Burns. 

The sauce to meat is ceremony.; meeting were bare without it. — Macbeth. 



HOW TO SELECT GOOD MEAT AND POULTRY, 

Beef. — Good beef is elastic so that if it be pressed with the finger no 
impression will remain. Ti the meat be in poor condition the lean part will 
usuallly be of a dark color and inelastic. ^ ' 

Mutton. — ^The lean part of good mutton is of a dark, bright crimson 
red ; the fat is firm and white. The lean part of bad mutton is of a brownish 
aolor with a bad smell; there is little fat and it is flabby and yellowish. 

*-9 



130 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE COQK. 

Pork. — The fat part of pork should be firm and white ; the lean should 
be of a fine grain ; and the skin cool and thin. Should the fat contain ker- 
nels the pork should be avoided for the pig was diseased when killed. Pork 
shoujd not be kept more than a day or two before it is cooked for it will not 
keep" long without salting. Great care should be exercised that pork be 
thoroughly cooked or there will be danger of disease. 

VeaL — Veal will spoil quickly and should not be- kept more than two 
days in summer nor four in winter. 

Turkeys. — A young cock-turkey has smooth, black legs with short 
spurs. Sometimes dealers cut and scrape the spurs of old turkeys so as to' 
deceive one, hence they should be carefully examined. , The beak of an old 
turkey is hard while that of a young bird is somewhat soft. The legs of 
an old hen-turkey are red and rough. If the turkey is in poor condition 
the eyes will be dim and sunken and the feet dry and stiff, while if it be tn 
good condition the eyes will be bright and full and the feet soft and pliable. 

Fowls. — Select a fat fowl for any purpose. The skin should be trans- 
parent and if the bird is young and tender the skin under the wing or leg ma^^ 
be easily torn. A young cock will have short spurs. A fine bird will have 
a full fat breast and a smooth comb. 

Ducks. — If the duck has been recently killed the feet and legs will be 
soft and pliable but if it be stale they will be dry and stiff. Freshness of 
the eyes is a good indication. An old duck will generally be thin and lean 
while a young bird is generally plump. The tame duck has rather large feet 
that are of a dusky yellow while the feet of the wild duck are smaller and 
of a reddish color. 

Geese. — ^The feet and beak of an old goose will generally be red and 
bristly, while those of a young goose will be yellow with few bristles. When 
stale the feet and legs are dry and stiff; when fresh they are pliable and soft. 
The breast of a young bird, as with all poultry in good condition, is plump 
and the flesh whiter than that of old birds. 

A FEW SUGGESTIONS CONCERNING THE COOKING OF MEATS 

AND POULTRY. 

Salt meats and meats used for soup should be put to cook in cold water ; 
but otherwise, fresh meat should be put on in boiling water. Cold water 
extracts the juice while hot water quickly cooks the outer surface of the 
meat and so retains the juices. Put a piece of red pepper in the water to 
prevent the odor which arises from boiling meat and turn the meat fre- 
quently that it may cook evenly on all sides. Carefully remove all scum as 
it arises. The meat should be kept boiling constantly but very gently. 
Allow twenty minutes for each pound of meat. 

When roasting meat in the oven it should be frequently basted, that 
is, the juices should be dipped and poured over it with a spoon. Keep the 
fire at a uniform heat. 

In broiling, have the gridiron hot before putting on the meat. Turn 
it over as soon as it sears. 

Do not salt meat until it is nearly done as salt extracts the juices. The 
juices of meat are also extracted by allowing them to remain wrapped in 
paper when purchased. The meat should be immediately unwrapped. 

In cooking an old fowl or a tough piece of meat, add a pinch of soda or 



MEATS, POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 131 

a spoonful of vinegar to the water in which they are boiled to aid in making 
them tender. 

Frozen meats should be laid in cold watei to thaw out shortly before 
using. 

When roasting meat, use either tripods or clean pieces of wood to keep 
it out of the juices. Keep a pan of water in the oven to prevent scorching. 

In warm weather mutton, veal and pork may be kept fresh for several 
weeks by laying them in sour milk. The meat should be entirely covered 
and the milk changed when mould appears. Wash the meat in cold water 
before using. 

Salt pork may be freshened by soaking it over night ia sweet milk and 
water. 

_ A'nice gravy is made by adding the meat gravy to some flour and butter 
which have been rubbed together and browned in the skillet. ' 

The garnishes for meat are slices of lemon, parsley, sliced beets, sliced 
carrots and currant jelly. 

MEATS AND POULTRY. 
1, Baked Veal Chops or Cutlet. — Put in a roasting pan and season with 
pepper and salt, dust heavily with flour and put small pieces of butter on top. 
Then cover with water and bake one hour. 

• 2. Breaded Ham. — Cut 1 pound of ham in slices i/4 inch thick; lay 
in hot water for 30 minutes, drain and wipe dry, dip in beaten egg, then in 
rolled bread crumbs and broil. 

3. Creamed Beef. — Melt a lump of butter the size of an tgg in a frying 
pan, then add cold roast beef cut in thin slices or chipped dried beef and fry, 
to a nice brown, then add a tablespoonful of flour and stir well ; last of all 
add enough water or milk to make a nice cream ; serve with or without toast 
as you like. 

4. Dressing for Stuffing Meats. — Soak a loaf of baker's bread in cold 
water and squeeze as dry as possible. Cut a large onion up fine and mix with 
the bread and fry a light brown in butter, with plenty of salt and pepper and 
then add 2 well-beaten eggs and a little sage if desired. 

5. Veal Loaf. — Three pounds veal, 3 eggs, % pound ham, 1 cup cracker 
crumbs, ^/^ cup milk, butter size of an egg, pepper and salt, a little water 
in the pan at first. Bake % of an hour or longer. 

6. Beefsteak Roll. — Prepare a bread dressing such as you use for 
chicken ; pound a round steak a little but not very hard ; spread the dressing 
over it ; lap over the ends ; roll the steak up tightly and tie ; spread 3 spoonfuls 
of butter over it ; put a little water in the pan, lay steak in and bake, basting 
often. In a brisk oven it will bake in 30 minutes. Make a brown gravy 
and serve- hot, or it is nice when sliced cold. 

^7. Chicken Tamales (A Mexican Dish). — Mix 1 pint each of finely 
ground cooked chicken and finely ground fresh boiled ham ; cut 2 large red 
peppers in halves, remove seeds, and place in sauce pan with boiling water and 
cook 5 minutes; remove,. chop fine and add them to the meat; season with % 
teaspoonful of salt and sauce from peppers. Place a sauce pan containing a 
cupful of chicken broth over the fire. Mi3i 4 tablespoonfuls corn meal with 
cold water ; add it slowly to boiling broth ; add Vz teaspoonful butter ; cook and 
stir till thick ; season with salt to taste. Put some dried corn husks in warm 
water to soak for 30 minutes, remove, cut off even sizes, spread each out on a 



133 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

dish. Cover with thin layer of meal paste; put a^ablespoonful of the meat in 
the center lengthwise ; fold the husk around it ; twist the ends and tie. Place 
in a steamer and steam for an hour and a half or cover with chicken broth and 
cook one hour. Any kind of meat may be used instead of chicken. 

8. Braised Beef. — Cut a round steak into suitable pieces for serving, 
Dip these in salt water, then m bread or cracker crumbs. Fry these pieces, 
just long enough to brown nicely, in a buttered pan, Put into a bake pan or 
dish and put in enough .water to make the pan half full. Bake 90 minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

9. Boiled Ham. — Changing the water once or twice, soak the ham 
for 24 hours. Put on to cook in boiling water with a little sage and a cup of 
vinegar. When very tender, remove the skin and black o"Utside, sprinkle the 
fat side with sugar and bread crumbs, and brown in the oven. 

lOj Ham Pattie. — Chop fine some pieces of cold ham. One-half dozen 
boiled eggs, chopped and seasoned with salt and pepper; Put in a baking 
dish a, layer of ham, then a layer of eggs, and then the sauce until dish is 
full. Sauce: — Mix together 1 tablespoonful of flour and 1 tablespoonful of 
butter and stir this into a cup of sweet milk. Over the top layer of pattie, 
pour this, sauce and "Spread with.breg.d crumbs. Bake until a nice brown. 

11. Tasse Ham. — Cut six hard boiled eggs in halves, crosswise; re- 
move yolks; place cups thus made around edge of platter. While eggs are 
boiling, cook Ys cup of fine bread crumbs in % cup of milk to a smooth paste ; 
add 1 cup of chopped ham, cooked; 1 egg slightly beaten, % teaspoonful 
mustard; make into, balls, set one in each half egg cup. White Sauce: — 
Two tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour, 1 cup of milk and 1 teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Turn this into center of platter, sift yolks over it and set 
dish in oven until eggs are hot. Garnish with parsley. You can use mush- 
rooms in the white sauce if so desired. 

13. Deviled Ham Rolls. — Roll thin some light rich pastry and cut into 
four-inch squares ; spread upon each square a spoonful of deviled ham, leaving 
-about ^ inch around the edge uncovered. Moisten the edges with cold 
water ; roll each sheet of ham and pastry compactly, pressing the edges 
together. Brush with white of egg and bake. This is nice with a salad 
course. 

13, Stuffed Leg cf Pork, — Make deep incisions in the meat; mash fine 
A few boiled potatoes ; add a chopped onion, cayenne pep'per, salt and a little 
sage. Mix a piece of butter with this and fill the incisions; pull the skin 
down, and skewer over to keep the dressing from falling out. Roast slowly ; 
when the meat is done pour the gravy into a pan, take off the fat and add a 
little brown flour; as soon as it boils up once, remove from the fire; serve 
with cranberry sauce. 

14. Veal with Oysters. — Cut 1 pound of select veal into squares about 
the size of the oysters; fry nice and brown; when done add enough butter 
to make sufiScient gravy and season. Pour over this 1 quart of oysters, 
well cleaned and drained, with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour stirred all through 
the oysters; pepper and salt; cover and let steam until the oysters begm 
to curl and the gravy is thickened. 

13. Curry Chicken,— ^Cut up a chicken; slice an onion and fry in the 
skillet with a generous piece of butter; add a teaspoonful of curry powder. 
Put in chicken and fry Just' long enough to absorb the onion flavor-. Grate 
1 cocoanut and pour boiling water over it; strain through cheese cloth. 



MEATS, POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 133 

squeezing tight; add the chicken to cocoanut water; cook until meat drops 
from bones. If water boils away add more: salt the last thing- add a little 
flour and more curry powder if desired. Serve with hot boiled rice. 

16. Chicken Sauteing. — Melt 2 taMespoonfuls of butter in a pan with a 
small chopped onion ; do not let it brown . put into this a tender chicken cut 
into small pieces ; season with pepper and salt. Let cook for 30 minutes, 
turning often; then dredge with flour, stir around well and add a scant pint 
of stock or water — ^boiling. Cover and place on the back part of the stove 
where it will simmer gently until done. Remove all grease from gravy and 
add a cup of cream; cook for 3 or 3 minutes and pour over chicken. 

17 Chicken Pie. — ^Take a good sized chicken that is neither too fat nor 
too old ; cut it up and remove all extra fat ; wash it well and cook until tender, 
keeping the fat skimmed from the top of the kettle. Put the extra fat in a 
skillet and place on ^he back of the stove where it can slowly cook until all 
grease is extracted and when cold it may be used with other shortening 
to make the crust for the pie The crust m.ay be made in the usual way, 
lining the pan with an under crustj then add the chicken and 4 sliced po- 
tatoes; then the broth made into a nice gravy; put the top crust on and 
bake until it is a nice brown. 

18. Cleveland Chicken. — Cut up a cooked chicken fine, a few potatoes 
cut in squares and bread crumbs ; put on the stove 1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, pepper, salt and a little parsley; mix 
with the other, sprinkle bread crumbs over the top and bake fifteen minutes, 

19. Old Point Comfort Chicken Terrapin. — Boil a chicken until tender; 
remove bones; thicken the broth with a lump of butter rubbed in flour and 
then put the meat of the chicken back on the stove ; add % pound of butter, 
a dozen mushrooms, a little summer savory, cayenne pepper and salt. Boil 
and stir until tender; then add yolks of 3 hard boiled eggs, chopped fine; 
then sweet cream and serve hot. 

20. Chicken Croquettes. — Boil a cup of milk with a lump of butter as 
large as an egg and a tablespoonfj;! of flour; when cool add pepper and salt, 
a bit of minced onion, 1 cup^ of bread crumbs and 1 pint of finely chopped 
chicken ; lastly, beat 2 eggs and work in, form in balls, roll in eggs and cracker 

. crumbs and fry. 

21. Chicken Cutlets. — Rub together 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and 1 of 
butter; add to them % pint of stock; stir constantly until boiling and then 
add the yolks of 2 eggs. Take from the fire and add 1 pint of cold chopped 
chickeu, a tablespoonful of parsley, 1 teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper and 
a grating of nutmeg. Mix arid put aside to cool ; when cold form into the 
shape of cutlets, dip in eggs and crSmbs and fry. Turkey can be used 
the same way. 

23. Chicken and Macaroni. — In a baking pan arrange layers of bits of 
chidfcen, macaroni and bread crumbs, the crumbs on top; season with salt, 
pepper and butter. Pour over a dressing made of 2 cups of stock, % c"P 
of cream and flour to thicken ; bake 45 minutes. 

23. Sweetbreads and Peas. — Soak 2 pairs of sweetbreads in cold salt 
water for an hour, then cook from 30 to 45 minutes. Take 1 can of French 
peas cooked and seasoned as for table, add the chopped sweetbreads, put in 
baking dish, cover with bread crumbs and a generous amount of butter, 
bake in hot oven 10 minutes or until brown. 



134 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

24. Liver Timbales. — To a pint ef cooked calf's liver, chopped fine and 
salted, add a cup of bread crumbs, 2 beaten eggs, 1 cup of milk, 1 teaspdonful 
of parsley, a few drops of onion juice and a tablespoonful of melted butter. 
Mix thoroughly and turn into molds and cook in a pan of warm water 
in a moderate oven for about 25 minutes. Serve with mushroom sauce. 

25. Stuffed Tripe.— Clean and boil a large piece of fresh tripe, spread 
with a highly seasoned bread dressing, roll up and tie. Put it into a baking 
pan with ^ cup of butter and a cup of hot water ; cover and bake about an 
hour in a moderate oven, basting frequently. 

26. Nut Balls. — Any cold cooked meat may be used. To each half pint 
of finely chopped meat add i/4 cup of chopped blanched almonds, 1 raw egg, 
% teaspoonful salt arid a pinch of white pepper. Mould this mixture into balls 
the siz^e of a walnut ; place in an agate baking dish ; add l^/^ cups strained to- 
matp, which has been seasoned with pepper, salt and celery salt or a little 
onion juice. Place in a moderate oven for 15 minutes; reduce and thicken 
by placing over the fire for a few moments. Serve this sauce poured around 
the balls. Garnish with parsley. 

27. A Ragout. — Mix y2 cup of cheese with 1 cup of chopped cold meat ; 
season with pepper and salt and 1/2 *easpoonful of anchovy paste; moisten 
thoroughly with gravy made with milk or stock ; put in a baking dish ; cover 
with a layer of bread crumbs sprinkled with bits of butter and bake about 
20 minutes. It may be baked and served in individual ramekin dishes or 
patty shells. 

.28. Pressed Tongue. — Boil a medium sized tongue four hours very 
gently; remove the skin as soon as it is taken out of the boiling water; 
then slice into a chopping bowl and chop fine. Season well with pepper 
and salt. Put in a little more than i/4 teaspoonful of mace, and lastly add one 
cup of finely chopped English walnuts. The next day it will be ready to 
serve. If any other meat is used it will need to be moistened with a little 
of the liquid in which the meat was boiled. ' 

29. Dressing for Baked Fowl. — Chop fine 6 or 8 slices of stale bread ; 
season to taste with salt, pepper and sage; add 1 egg, well beaten, and 
2 ounces butter; mix well together and moisten with 1 cup of hot water. 

30. Beef Loaf. — Grind 1% pounds of steak; add a little salt; mix into 
this 1 cup of ground bread crumbs seasoned with salt, .pepper and butter 
the size of an egg, rubbed in ; add a cup of sweet milk with aii egg beaten 
into it; mix all together like pie dough; form into a loaf; put into a buttered 
pie pan and roast and baste from 45 minutes to an hour. 

31. Deviled Ham Loaf. — Take 2 spoonfuls of cracker or bread crumbs, 
% pound of deviled ham, 2 cups of milk, using a portion to moisten the ham ; 
stir in 2 eggs ; add salt to taste ; put into buttered pan and bake 1 hour in a 
moderate oven. Cut in thin slices, garnish with parsley and serve cold. .. 

32. Chop Suey. — Fry % of a pound of shredded white meat of chicken 
in butter until golden brown.; add a little black bean sauce and then add to 
this the following ingredients, all chopped fine: % pound of celery, % pound 
of mushrooms, % pound of bamboo root, ^ pound onions and % pound of 
water chestnuts. Fry all this together two minutes and add salt, pepper 
and a little water. Simmer three minutes longer and serve hot. This will 
serve six persons. The Chinese ingredients can be pttrchased at any Chinese 
store or restaurant. ' 



MEATS, POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 138 

GAME. 

1, Pheasants, Partridges, Quails, Etc. — These are nice in flour and laid 
in a deep dish containing y% cup-of drippings; add pepper and salt and lay 
nice slices of ham or bacon over the top. When done remove the ham and 
make a dressirg of y% pint of cream and a dozen chopped oysters, to be 
added just before serving. 

3. A Delicious Rabbit Fry. — Cut the rabbit in pieces and quickly wash 
in cold water. Do not soak it. Have frying pan very hot; then when you 
have seasoned the meat, roll it in flour and place in a pan, into which drop 
a tablespoonful of butter and one of lard. Cover with a pan and let the rabbit 
be very well done before you turn it over to brown on the other side. A 
rabbit fried in this manner will smell almost as nice as it will taste. 

3. Rabbit Stew. — Cut up the rabbit, cover with cold water and put over 
the fire; add a teaspoonful of salt and boil until tender. Have ready hot 
biscuits broken open and laid on a platter and on each place a piece of the 
rabbit. Thicken the gravy with 3 tablespoonfuls of flour wet smoothly in a 
little milk ; let it boil a minute, theri add a cup of milk or cream and stir 
well. Pour this over the rabbit and biscuit and serve at once. 

4. Hasenpfeffer. — After the rabbit has been in salt water for several 
hours, rinse with clear water. Boil until tender in water containing an 
onion in which are stuck about a dozen cloves. When tender take from 
liquor, roll in flour and fry brown in skillet, using equal quantities of butter 
and lard; just before removing from Skillet, sprinkle over a little cinnamon 
and about 1 tablespoonful of vinegar (more or less to suit taste) ; cook 
closely; let smother for a few minutes; remove rabbit; put flour in skillet 
and brown in remaining grease; add liquor in which the rabbit was cooked 
to make a nice gravy ; pour over rabbit. 

FISH AND OYSTERS. 

"Master, I mai'vel how the fishes live in the sea!" 

"Why as men do on land; the great ones eat up the little ones." 

— Pericles. 

"Drenched in the sea, hold, notwithstanding, their freshness." — Tempest, 

" Fruit of the wave f O, dainty and delicious I 
Food for the gods ! Ambrosia for Apicius ! < 

Worthy to thrill the soul of sea-born Venus, 
Or titillate the palate of Silenus ! " 

In selecting fish see that the eyes are full and not dull and sunken. The 
flesh should be firm and hard to the touch and should rise at once to the pres- 
sure of the finger. 

The earthy or mudBy taste may be removed by soaking in salt water 
shortly before using. The skin may be readily removed by pouring boil- 
ing water over it and letting it stand a few minutes. Lemon juice whitens 
fish. 

Fish should be cooked the day they are bought. Fresh mackerel, espe- 
cially, spoil very quickly. 

In frying fish, put it into very hot lard and turn as soon as browned on one 
side. When browned on both sides move the skillet to the back part of the 
stove, cover and let cook slowly. Use plenty of lard but no butter. 

Garnishes are parsley, sliced beets, lemon, lettuce and hard-boiled eggs. 



136 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

1. Baked White Fish.— Fill the fish with a stuffing of fine bread crumbs 
and a little butter ; then sew up the fish, sprinkle with butter, salt and pepper. 
Bake an hour and serve with tgg sauce or parsley sauce. 

2. Boiled Fresh Fish. — ^Tie the fish up in a cloth and plunge into salted 
boiling water. Boil very slowly, allowing eight minutes to the pound. When 
about half done add a little lemon juice or vinegar. Whe,i done, drain, 
dish carefully and pour drawn butter over it. ^ 

3. Clara Stew. — Drain off and strain the liquor from 25 clams ; cut them 
up and place with the strained liquor in a stew kettle. Cut into small pieces 
5 or 6 potatoes and a small-onion; add these to the clams with half a cup 
of milk, butter the size of an egg, salt and pepper to taste. Stev/ until done ; 
thicken with gravy and serve hot. 

4. Baked Codfish. — Three eggs beaten separately, 1 pint of milk, 1 cup 
of shredded codfish; thicken milk as thick as for cream toast; put the yolks 
of eggs' in while milk and fish are hot ; add whites last. Bake 20 minutes. 

5. Fish a la Creme. — One pint of cold cooked fish, picked in fine pieces ; 

1 pint of milk, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 small piece of onion, 1 sprig of parsley, 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 tablespoonful of butter. Put milk on to boil 
in a double boiler; add to it the onions and parsley; rub the butter and 
flour together and stir into the boiling milk; cook 2 minutes; add the well- 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs; take from the fire and strain; add pepper and salt 
to taste. Put a layer of this same in a buttered baking dish, then a layer ot 
fish, another of the same, and so on, having the last layer of the same; 
sprinkle the top lightly with bread crumbs and put in the oven until a 
nice brown. 

6. Baked Pickerel. — Cleanse the fish thoroughly in salt water; split 
so it will lie flat in the pan ; sprinkle wi,th pepper, salt and bits of butter ; 
pour into the pan enough water to keep from burning and bake about 45 
minutes. Make .a sauce in the proportion of a tablespoonful of flour, a table- 
spoonful of butter, and half a pint of 'milk or water ; when boiled until smooth, 
stir in a tablespoonful of lemon Juice and serve very hot. 

7. Lobster a la Newburg. — Two pounds of lobster, yolk of 1 egg, 1 
tablespoonful of butter, V^ pint of cream, small wine-glass of sherry, a very 
little water. Stew lobster slowly with the butter and water for 15 minutes; 
stir egg, cream and part of the wine and mix with the lobster and stir 5 min- 
utes. Add remainder of the wine -just before serving. 

8. Oyster Dressing. — ^One pint of oysters. Take the giblets of a 
chicken boiled until tender; crumb up a loaf of stale bread; heat 1 cup of 
milk boiling hot; pour the hot milk and water from giblets over the bread; 
season with salt, pepper and sage. Stir in with a spoon the oysters and 1 
egg well beaten. This amount is enough to stuff one chicken. 

9. Oyster Cocktails. — For one person, take four to six nice large oysters. 
Sauce: — one tablespoonful of horseradish, 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls' of tomato 
catsup, a pinch of salt, also of Hungarian paprika, dash of tobasco sauce, 
a few drops of vinegar, also a few drops of lemon juice. Mix thoroughly 
and pour over the oysters. If oysters are served on the half shell, sauce is 
served in a sherbet glass, in middle of plate, surrounded by the shells.^ 

10. Curried Oysters. — Drain the liquor from a quart of oysters and put 
it in a sauce pan ; add % cup of butter, 1 tablespoonful of curry powder, 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour, well mixed; let boil; add oysters and a little salt; 
boil up and serve. 



MEATS, POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 137' 

11. Oyster Omelet. — Add half a dozen eggs beaten very light to ^2 cup 
of cream ; season with salt and pepper and pour into a frying pan with a 
tablespoonful of butte^; drop in a dozen large oysters cut in halves or 
chopped fine with parsley and fry until light brown ; double it over and serve 
immediately. 

12. Steamed Oysters. — Wash and drain a quart of select oysters; put 
them in a pan and place in steamer over boiling water ; cover and steam till 
oysters are plump with edges ruffled ; place in heated dish with butter, salt 
and pepper and serve. 

13. Salmon Loaf. — Beat 2 eggs, add 1 cup of bread crumbs, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter and the fish contained in a pound can of salmon, 
saving the liquor. Add pepper and salt to taste. Mix and steam in a but- 
tered dish 1 hour. Sauce : — One egg beaten lightly, 3 tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter and 1 tablespoonful of cornstarch,; after mixing stir in 1 cup scald- 
ing milk, cook a moment and add the liquor; pour this over the fish and 
serve. 

14. Turbot. — Boil a bass or white fish and pick it to pieces; place it in 
a baking dish; pour over it a pint of milk, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls. of but- 
ter, 1 tablespoonful pf flour ; season lightly ; sprinkle cracker crumbs over the 
top and bake 20 minutes. 

15. Pigs in Blanket. — Season large oyster with pepper; cut very thin 
slices of bacon and wrap around the oyster and fasten with a toothpick; fry 
until the bacon is crisp and brown. No salt will be needed as the bacon con- 
tains salt enough. 

16. Salmon Balls. — One can of salmon free from bones and skin; 3 
cold boiled potatoes, chopped fine ; 1 egg, beaten and njixed with salmon 
"and potato; salt and pepper; make into little cakes and. roll in corn meal 
or cracker crumbs ; fry in hot lard. 

17. Fried Oysters. — Drain oysters, dip them in cracker meal, then in 
well beaten eggs, then again in cracker meal ; then fry a nice brown in hot 
lard. 

18. Salmon Chops. — Take the salmon from one can, remove the skin and 
bones and mash with a silver fork; put together 3 level teaspoonfuls each of 
butter and flour, % teaspoonful of salt and a dash of cayenne ; add the fish, 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. When 
cold form into chops, dip in egg and bread crumbs, put a piece of macaroni 
in the end for a bone and form in shape. 

19. Halibut Steak. — Wash and dry 2 halibut steaks; butter a fish pan, 
lay thin slices of salt pork on it, place the steak on this, pour lemon juice 
over it and dust with salt and pepper ; dip % pint of oysters in melted butter, 
then in crumbs and place on fish. Put the second, steak over the oysters 
and season as before, laying thin slices of pork on top. Bake 30 to 40 min- 
utes, basting often with jflice from the pan and lastly butter. Remove the. 
pork from the top, cover with buttered crumbs, brown and serve. 

20. Creamed Fish. — For 3 cups of cold fish or canned salmon fjaked fine, 
make a cream sauce with a tablespoonful of butter and a tablespoonful of 
flour beaten together with ^4 teaspoonful of salt and a bit of red pepper. 
Pour a cup of milk on this and stir over the fire until it thickens; add the 



138 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

fish with a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; pour into a buttered dish and 
coyer with bread or cracker crumbs and bake a light brown. 

21. Codfish Balls. — Pick apart one cup of fish and put it in a saucepan 
with one pint of -raw cut up potatoes; cover with cold water and boil until 
potatoes are done; drain well. Wash and stir until light; season with pepper 
and a teaspoonful of butter. Stir in one egg, well beaten; shape with a 
tablespoon and fry in smoking hot lard. 

Z2. HoUandaise Sauce.— Beat 1/2 cup of butter until creamy, add yolks 
of 4 eggs one at a time and beat until blended. Add 1/4 teaspoonful of salt, 
the juice of 1 lemon and a dash of cayenne. Beat until smooth, add V3 cup of 
milk or stock and cook until thickened. 

23. Escalloped Oysters. — One quart of oysters, 1 quart of rolled crackers 
or bread crumbs ; put' into a deep dish, putting alternate layers of oysters 
and crackers and small pieces of butter ; season with pepper and salt. When 
dish is full, cover with milk. Bake 30 minutes. ^ 

24. Frizzled Oysters. — Dry a quart of oysters on a napkin, put butter 
in frying pan, when very hot put in oysters, season with pepper and salt; 
serve hot. 

25. Baked Shad. — Make a stuffing of bread crumbs, pepper, salt, butter 
and parsley and mix this with the beaten yolks of 3 eggs and enough milk to 
moisten; fill fish and sew or fasten a string around it. Pour over it a little 
water and some butter and' bake as a fowl ; an hour or more is required to 
bake it. Boil up the gravy in which the fish was baked, put in a teaspoonful 
each of flour, catsup and lemon juice. Pour on as a dressing. To bake 
salmon, omit stuffing. 

26. Broiled Oysters. — Dry the required number of large, selected oy- 
sters; place on a fine wife broiler, turning often; have some toast ready, 
butter the oysters, season with pepper and salt, place on the toast, put in 
the oven for a moment to heat, and serve. 

27. Baked Salmon. — One can of salmon minced fine, 1 cup of cracker- 
crumbs, 1 cup milk, 1 well-beaten egg, butter the size of a walnut. Bake in a 
quick oven and garnish with parsley. Serve hot. 

28. Salmon Croquettes. — Take 1 large can of salmon, free it from the 
oil and bones and shred it carefully; sprinkle over it a little lemon juice and 
allow it to stand a few minutes; melt 1 tablespoonful of butter in a sauce 
pan, mix smoothly in 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, then add slowly 2 cups of 
milk and season with pepper and salt ; then add to it the yolks of 2 eggs, well 
beaten with a tablespoonful of cream ; add the fish and 1% cups of iread 
crumbs; cook 3 minutes, remove from fire and when- cold make into cro- 
quettes; roll in crumbs, then in beaten egg and again in the crumbs; fry 
in deep hot fat. 

29. Oyster Rarebit. — Add i/^ pound of grated cheese to 2 tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter. Remove the hard muscle from % pint of oysters and cook 
until they are plump ; drain and keep hot. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs until 
light and add Yz cup of oyster liquor and the oysters and stir into the meltfed 
cheese. Serve on squares of toasted bread. 

30. Escalloped Salmon. — One can of salmon, 3 cups cracker crumbs, 
butter, salt and pepper. Butter a baking pan and put in a layer of 
salmon and then a layer of cracker crumbs over which sprinkle some salt. 



MEATS, POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 139 

peoper and bits of butter; add another layer of salmon and cracker cruqabs 
ana pour over enough milk to come to the edge of the contents and bake. 

CROQUETTES. 

1. Cheese Croquettes. — The beaten white of 1 egg, % cup of grated 
cheese, a dash of cayenne pepper and a little salt. Make into small cro- 
quettes and roll in cracker crumbs and egg and fry a delicate brown. 

2. Rice and Beef Croquettes. — Add a little salt to % cup of rice and 
cook. Chop the meat fine, take one part of rice to three parts of meat, season 
to taste ; form into rolls, roll in crumbs, then in egg, then in crumbs, and fry 
in very hot lard. Add a little onion if desired. 

3. Macaroni Croquettes. — Boil half a package of macaroni in salt water 
until soft. A pint of cold boiled beef, boiled until, it shreds. Chop both to- 
gether until very fine; season to taste with pepper and salt; roll into balls, 
dip in flour and brown in beef suet or butter. Beef suet, smoking, gives 
the croquettes a prettier brown without so much danger of burning as when 
browned in butter. This amount will make 16 croquettes. 

4. Salmon Croquettes.'^One can of salmon' with liquor drained off, 
2 cups of mashed potatoes (use while warm), 2 eggs, mustard, celery seed, 
nutmeg, ground cloves and allspice ; 1 tablespoonful vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls 
catsup, a little red pepper and salt. Form into any desired shape, roll in 
cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard. Try these. They are vey nice. 

5. Veal Croquettes. — ^Take 4 cups of cold chopped veal, pepper and 
salt, and a little lemon juice. One cup of white sauce, mix and let cool. 
When cool roll them in shape and then roll in sifted bread crumbs. Fry 
in hot fat. 

6. Rice Croquettes. — To 1% cups of cold cooked rice, add 2 eggs, ^ 
cup of flour, 1 tablespoonful of sugar and % teaspoonful of salt. Mix well, 
and when cold mould and fry as other croquettes. 

7. Hominy Croquettes. — To a pint of cooked hominy add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of milk ; heat and add 1 tablespoonful of butter ; pepper, salt, parsley and 
onion juice to taste ; then add 2 beaten eggs and cook until thick ; when cold 
form into croquettes and fry as other croquettes. 

8. Italian Croquettes. — Take 1 cup of finely chopped vermicelli, make 
a sauce of %, cup each of flour and butter and a cup of strained cpoked to- 
matoes. Add 1/4 cup of chopped mushrooms, the vermicelli and season highly 
with salt and paprika. Shape and fry as other croquettes. 

9. Sweet Potato Croquettes. — Work 1 tablespoonful of butter, pepper 
and salt to taste, into 1 pint of hot mashed sweet potatoes. When cold mould 
into shape, dip in egg then in crumbs and fry. 

JlO. Oyster and Veal Croquettes. — Two^cups finely chopped veal, 1 pint 
raw oysters chopped fine, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, yolks of 4 eggs, 6 table- 
spoonfuls powdered crackers and 2 teaspoonfuls onion juice. Soak the 
crackers in the oyster liquor; soften butter and mix air ingredients. Shape 
and dip in egg and cracker crumbs and fry. 

11. Potato Croquettes. — To a pint of hot mashed potatoes, add 1 table- 
spoonful of butter, the yolk of one egg, salt and pepper, a little onion juice 
and a little parsley. Cook all together and then cool and make into balls and 
fry in hot lard. 



140 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

SOUPS. 

(Including Soup Stocks, Bouillon and Broths.) 

" Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, 
And, half suspected, animate the whole." 

— Sidney Smith. 

• Always use cold water in making soups as the juices of the meat are 
thus extracted, while if the meat is put into hot water the outer part is 
quickly seared and the juices retained. Use a quart of water to a pound of 
meat and allow a quart of soup for three or four persons. It is very necessary 
that the soup be thoroughly skimmed and all grease should be removed. 
Long and slow simmeringis necessary to get all the strength from the meat. 

There are two kinds of soup or stock — white and brown. The white 
is made from either veal or fowls while the browii is made from beef. 

In making vegetable soups cook the vegetables separately and add to 
the soup just before taking from the "fire. Celery seed will be found an ex- 
cellent substitute for celery. The best herbs for seasoning soups are sage, mint, 
tarragon, sweet marjoram, thyme, sweet basil, bay leaves, parsley, cloves, 
mace, celery and onions. 

Scorched flour or bufnt sugar are used to color soups. Season lightly 
at first for more may be added if desired. 

Never put soups or gravies in tin or copper and it is best to use a wooden 
spoon. 

1. Asparagus Soup. — Take a can of asparagus, 1 pint of cream or milk, 
1 pint of white stock, 1 tablespoonful of chopped onion, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful sugar and % teaspoonful pep- 
per. Cut off and lay aside the heads of asparagus, cut stalks into short pieces 
and put them on to boil in a stew pan with the stock. Put onion and butter 
in a small frying pan and cook slowly for ten minutes, then add flour; stir 
until mixture is smooth and frothy, but not brown. Add this, together with 
the sugar, pepper and salt, to the stock and asparagus and simmer for 15 
minutes; then rub the soup through a sieve and return it to the stew pan. 
Add cream and asparagus heads and after boiling up once, serve without 
delay. In case fresh asparagus be substituted for canned, use two bunches. 
Cook them in the stock or water for 20 minutes. Remove the heads for 
later use and proceed with the cooking the same as when canned asparagus 
is used. 

2. Bean Soup. — Boil 1 quart of beans until soft, rub through a colandejr 
to remove hulls. Return soup to the fire, season well with pepper, and , salt, 
and add a few spoonfuls of cream; serve with small squares of toast. Some 
prefer corn bread with bean soup. If desired a small piece of bacon may 
be boiled with the beans as it adds richness and flavor to the soup. 

3. Potato Soup. — One quart of milk with a small onion scalded in it, 
1 pint mashed potatoes, 1 heaping tablespoonful of flour and as much butter_ 
as you like; pepper and salt to taste. 

4. Tomato Soup. — Heat, then mash fine 1 pint of tomatoes; add l^ 
teaspoonful soda. Pour in 1 pint or more if desired. Season with salt, pepper, 
butter and a little sugar. Just before serving add rolled crackers. 

5. Noodles for Soup. — One pint of "flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking pow • 



SOUPS. 141 

der, salt and as much water as 1 egg shell will hold ; roll thin, cut into narrow 
strips, dry them and boil in the soup for 10 or 15 minutes. 

-j6. Tomato Bisque. — One quart milk, 1 quart tomatoes, 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 tablespoonful flour, pepper and salt. Cook and 
strain the tomatoes. Place- the butter in basin, when hot rub in the flour, 
then add the milk slowly. When ready jto serve add soda to tomatoes, 
then the thickened milk. Serve with whipped cream. A stick of celery boiled 
with tomatoes improves the flavor. 

7. Celery Soup. — One head celery, 1 pint of milk, 1 pint of water, 1 
tablespoonful rice, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, 1 tablespoon- 
ful chopped onion, % teaspoonful pepper, ^ teaspoonful salt. Mash and 
scrape the celery, 4:ut into half-inch pieces, put it into a pint of boiling water 
(salted) and cook until very soft. Mash in the water in which it was boiled. 
CocMc the onions with the milk in a double "Boiler, ten minutes, and add it 
to the celery. Rub all through a strainer and put it on to boil again. Cook 
the butter and flour together in a small sauce pan until smooth, but not brown, 
and stir into boiling soup. Add pepper and salt ; boil 5 minutes and strain 
into tureen. Serve very hot. 

8. Soup Stock. — Five and a half quarts of cold water, 1 shin of beef, 
iy2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 1' onion with several cloves stuck in it, 1 carrot, 
1 sprig of parsley, 1 stalk of celery or % teaspoonful pf celery seed, 1 turnip. 
Pour water on the meat, add pepper and salt, place on the back of the stBve 
to heat through slowly; in about 30 minutes put over a hot fire and when 
it begins to steam, skim and cover closely ; put over a moderate fire, allowing 
it to simmer (not boil) for three or four hours; add vegetables, allow it to 
boil one hour longer, theu take from the fire and strain ; when cold take 
grease from the top and it is ready for use. 

9. Bisque of Oysters. — One pint of oysters, 1 pint of milk, 1 table- 
spoonful flour, 1 tablespoonful butter, yolk of one egg, pepper and salt to 
taste. Drain the oysters, adding to the liquor enough cold water to make 
1 cup of liquid. Chop half of the oysters fine; bring the liquor to a boil, 
skim, add the chopped oysters and simmer ten minutes. Scald the milk, rub 
the flour and butter together until smooth, add to the milk and stir until it 
thickens. Add the whole oysters to the oyster- liquor and as soon as their 
edges curl, remove all from fire ; add the beaten yolk of the egg to the milk ; 
take at once from the fire and mix with the oysters and their liquor. Season 
and serve at once. 

10. Vegetable Soup. — Make nice stock with soup bone, 6 potatoes cut 
in dice, % head cabbage, 2 onions cut fine, 2 pieces celery cut fine, l^ cup 
rice, 3 tomatoes or V^ can. 

11. White Soup. — Boil 2 quarts of meat broth; beat 3 eggs well; 2 
cups milk; 2 spoonfuls flour; pour these gradually through a sieve into the 
boiling soup ; salt and pepper to taste. 

13, Clam Soup. — Chop fine the required number of clams, then cook in 
a little water with butter, salt and pepper ; when almost done, put in milk or 
cream and in soup enough for 4 persons put 1 cup of rolled crackers. Serve 
hot. 

13. . Split Pea Soup.'— Take 2 pounds of split peas, wash and put in sauce 
pan with 2 quarts, of water and boil for an hour ; drain off the water and add 
4 quarts of good strong stock, a ham bone and 1 onion and 1 carrot chopped 



148 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

together. . Let all boil together slowly for 3 or 4 hours, put through a sieve, 
season to taste and serve with toasted bread. 

14. Tomato Soup.— Take lean of tomatoes, 3 small onions and a pint 
of water ; stew for 1 hour, remove from stove and strain through a sieve ; add 
pepper, salt, butter size of a walnut, Small pinch of soda, 1 cup of milk ; le' 
come to a boil ; crumble into this 4 soda crackers. 

15. Cream of Celery Soup. — Boil 5 celery roots, if they may be had, 
in salt water until tender, then put through a fine sieve; heat 1 large cup 
of milk and 1 quart of stock. One large tablespoonful of butter and '2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour mixed to a cream, add this to the stock and celery and 
boil in double boiler until like cream. 

16. Bouillon. — Chop 1 pound of beef (from the round) in very small 
pieces, and cover with a pint of cold water; add a sprig of parsley and a 
stalk of celery. Stir with a wooden spoon until the meat is almost white. 
Let it stand away from the fire for 30 minutes. Place it over the fire and , 
bring quickly to the boiling point ; add 1 teaspoonful of salt and a ^little 
pepper. Strain through a napkin, color with caramel and it is ready to 
serve. 

17. Beef Broth. — One pound of lean beef, minced; 1 quart of cold 
water; 2 tablespoonfuls of rice; boil 1 hour, strain, and add salt and peppeJ 
to teste. 



EGGS. 

Including Various Ways of Cooking Eggs and Making Omelets. 



" New laid eggs whose praise 
Is sung by pullets with 
Their morning lays." 

— Saxe. 

The fresher eggs are, the better and more wholesome they will be. 
Eggs over a week old may be^ fried but should not be boiled. To tell good 
from bad eggs they should be put into water. The good ones will lay 
on their side while those that turn with the large end upward are bad and 
should be rejected. 

When eggs are plenty and cheap they may be preserved for future use 
by packing in salt, being careful not to allow them to touch. It seems 
to be a disputed question whether the large or small ends should be put 
down. To keep eggs for one's own use they may be dipped in melted 
wax or in flax seed oil or rubbed with lard, then packed in oats or bran. 

The eggs of ducks and geese are too coarse to be eaten alone, though 
they are frequently used in cooking. 

In breaking eggs they should be broken separately over a cup, to be 
sure they are perfect. The shells, washed, may be saved for settling coffee. 

In poaching eggs the hot water should be saiied and if a littlt vinegar 
is added it will aid in setting the whites. <■ 

Three minutes will boilZ^n ^gg soft; five minutes will cook the white 
hard but not the yolk; eight to ten minutes will cook it hard clear through; 



EGGS. 143 

ten to fifteen minutes will cook it hard enough to slice or to serve with 
salads. 

While boiling an egg eight or ten minutes renders it tough and harder 
to digest, if it be boiled for half an hour it will become tender and mealy 
and will be more easily digested than either raw or soft boiled eggs. When 
boiled for half an hour eggs may often be eaten by sick people when they 
cannot eat them if prepared^ in any other way. For this reason many doctors 
now recommend them for convalescents. 

It has been claimed that eggs may be served in nearly six hundred differ- 
ent ways.- However this may be, they form one of man's- principal articles 
of diet and as they are generally obtainable we will give a number of the' 
simpler ways df preparing them so that the housewife may perhaps find 
several new ways to serve this nutritious food. 

1. Creamed Eggs. — Have a pan of a size that eggs cannot spread much. 
Butter it thoroughly and break eggs into it carefully. Put small pieces of 
butter, and a tablespponful of cream, over each egg;' salt and pepper; bake 
for about five minutes to have the eggs done; to have them hard and eat 
cold, bake longer. 

2. Egg Gems. — Mix together 1 pint of bread crumbs and 1 pint of 
chopped meat; season with pepper, salt and a little butter; moisten with a 
little milk or water; heat this mixture thoroughly; fill gem or patty pans 
with the mixture; break an egg on the top of each and bake until the eggs 
are cooked. Cold roast beef or pork that is very lean will be especially nice 
for this dish. 

3. Ox Eyes. — Cut off 3-inch pieces from a long, round loaf of bread; 
carefully cut the crust and scoop a portion out of the center of each piece ; 
then place in a deep buttered dish ; for 3 pieces, beat well together two eggs 
and add a pinch of salt and % cup of milk ; baste this over the bread, adding 
more until all the liquid is -absorbed ; carefully break an egg into the cavity in 
each piece and bake in a hot oven. 

4. Baked Eggs with Cheese. — Butter and place a thin piece of cheese 
in the bottom of each egg dish; then break carefully an egg into each; for 
each egg take a tablespoonful of bread crumbs and grated cheese, a dash 
of paprika and salt sprinkled over each egg ; and on top place a bit of butte.r 
and set in a hot oven until eggs are set; serve at once". 

5. Eggs in Tomatoes. — Take fine tomatoes, one for each person to be 
served, and cut top off each; scoop out the seeds and break an egg into- 
each tomato; season with salt, pepper and butter; sprinkle top with bread 
crumbs and bake in hot oven. 

6. Egg Nest Toast. — ^Toast as many slices of bread as desired; dip 
quickly in salted water ; butter and put into a baking pan in the warming oven. 
Take as manjr eggs as you have slices of bread ; beat whites to a stiff froth ; 
place a spoonful on each slice of toast, making a little dent in the center 
in which place the yolk, and set all in oven to brown lightly ; be very careful 
not to break any of the yolks as they look very pretty in each nest. 

7. Deviled Eggs. — Cut open 6 hard-boiled eggs and make the filling 
of the yolks. Mash fine with fork ; add 1 teaspoonful of butter, % spoonful 
of sugar, pinch of salt and pepper and mustard to taste ; add enough vinegar 
to moisten, and fill the whites; a iittle chopped ham or lettuce or parsley 
or cheese may be added if wished. Sefved on lettuce leaves. 

8. Eggs a la Creole. — Butter the molds well (muffin pans will do), 



144 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK, 

scatter finely chopped parsley in the bottom and sides ; break an egg into 
each mold and steam or bake until the white is set. Have rice thoroughly 
boiled and piled in the center of an oblong dish, with eggs arranged around 
the edge. Pour the following tomato sauce over all : Two cups strained 
tomatoes, 1 tablespoonful of onion juice, 4 whole cloves, 4 whole peppers 
and 1 tablespoonful each of parsley, cornstarch, butter and sugar; let boil 15 
minutes, then add 1 tablespoonful of capers. This is good to look upon as 
well as to eat and the sauce is delicious on deviled fish of all kinds. 

9. Shirred Eggs. — Put 1 teaspoonful of cream into each baking cup, 
or grease gem pans and break an egg into each. Sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per and put a sroail bit of butter on top when no cream is used. Bake in hot 
oven ten minutes. 

10. To Coddle an Egg. — Put the egg into enough boiling water to cover 
it and at once remove the water from the stove so that the egg will cook 
slowly; leave it in the water for 7 or 8 minutes. When broken open the 
white should look like jelly. 

11. Baked Eggs. — Break eight eggs into a dish that has been well 
buttered ; add three tablespoonfuls of cream, salt, pepper and bits of butter ; 
bake in oven for about twenty minutes; serve while very hot. 

12. Bird's Nest. — ^After removing the shells from some hard-boiled eggs 
surround the eggs with forcemeat ; bake or fry them until well browned ; cut in 
halves and place in the dish with gravy. 

13. Curried Eggs. — Fry two sliced onions in butter; add a pint of good 
stock or broth and a tablespoonful of curry powder; stew till onions are 
tender; add a cup of cream which has been thickened with rice flour or ar- 
rowroot ; simmer a few moments ; add eight or ten hard-boiled eggs which 
have been cut in slices and beat them well, but do not boil. 

14.- Escalloped Eggs. — Place a layer of bread crumbs moistened with 
meat broth or milk into a well-bifttered dish ; slice hard-boiled eggs and dip 
each slice in a thick drawn butter sauce to which has been added a well- 
beaten egg ; put a layer of these slices of egg upon the bread crumbs ; upon 
the layer of eggs put a thin layer of minced veal, ham or chicken ; then add 
another layer of bread, etc., finishing with dry, sifted bread crumbs; bake 
until thoroughly heated. Another way is tO- mix equal parts of fine bread * 
crumbs and minced ham and season with pepper, salt and melted butter; 
moisten this with milk until quite soft ; butter the gem pans and- All half full 
of this mixture- then carefully break an egg upon the top of each; dust 
with pepper and salt and sprinkle finely powdered crackers over all; bake in 
the oven for eight minutes and serve at once. 

15. Frizzled Ham and Eggs. — Prepare the skillet with butter or beef 
drippings and put into it some finely chopped, boiled or fried ham ; pour over 
this from four to six well-beaten eggs and after it is heated through season 
with pepper and salt; stir all together; cook until brown and turn without 
stirring. ^ 

16. Poached Eggs; — Put water into a shallow stew pan over the fire 
and add salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar. The vinegar aids in " setting " 
the egg. When the water boils, carefully break the eggs into it one at a 
time, let thera simmer two minutes, take them up carefully with a strainer 
and serve on toast cut into fancy shapes : garnish with parsley. 

17. Fried Eggs. — ^The frying pan should be perfectly x;lean when fry- 
ing eggs; butter, dripping or cottonseed oil may be' used. As soon as the 



EGGS. 145 

pan is hot break the eggs into a cup and put them one at a time into the 
pan. As they fry raise the eggs from the bottom and give them a slight- 
shake. Dip some of the hot butter over the yolk. They will be done in 
two or three minutes and should be taken out and the grease allowed to 
drain off. Serve on slices of bacon. 

18. Scrambled Eggs.-^Melt a tablespoonful of butter over a hot fire, 
add four beaten eggs and stir quickly for one or two minutes. Salt and 
pepper to taste. Some increase the quantity by adding three-fourths of a cup 
of milk. The butter should then be put in first and the other ingredients 
added and stirred until the whole thickens. When done it should be soft and 
creamy. Fine served on toast. 

19. Eggs a la Creme. — Slice twelve hard-boiled eggs in thin rings. 
Spread bits of butter in the bottom of a deep baking dish and put in a layer 
of bread crumbs and then a layer of the sliced eggs ; cover with bits of butter 
and dust on pepper and salt. Continue thus till the dish is nearly full. 
Crumbs spread with bits of butter should cover all the eggs. Gver the whole 
pour a pint of sweet milk or cream and bake in a moderate oven. 

20. Eggs, Newport Style. — Soak a pint of bread crumbs in a pint of 
milk. Stir the soaked crumbs with eight eggs beaten very light, beating 
five minutes. Have ready a sauce pan containing two tablespoonfuls of 
butter which is very hot but not scorching; pour in the mixture of eggs and 
crumbs and season with salt and pepper as the mixture is stirred and 
scrambled. Stir quickly with the point of a knife for three minutes or until 
the mixture is thoroughly heated. This should be served on a hot platter 
with squares of buttered toast. 

31. Stuffed Eggs. — Cut six hard-boiled eggs in halves, take out the 
yolks and mash them fine; add one teaspoonful of cream, two of butter, 
two or three drops of onion juice, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix thor- 
oughly and fill the whites with the mixture and put them together. To 
the filling which is left add a well-beaten egg. Cover the eggs with this 
mixture and roll in cracker crumbs. Put into boiling fat and fry a light 
brown. 

22. Cupped Eggs. — Take the required number of cups and put into 
each a spoonful of highly seasoned brown gravy; have a sauce pan of boil- 
ing water on the, stove and set the cups into it and when the gravy is 
heated drop an egg into each cup; take the sauce pan off the stove and 
keep it covered close until the eggs are cooked tender ; dredge -with salt and 
nutmeg. Serve in a plate covered with a napkin. 

23. Eggs a la Mode. — Peel a dozen medium sized tomatoes and cut them 
up in a sauce pan; add salt, pepper and a little butter; when sufficiently 
boiled add sistHjeaten eggs just before serving and stir one way for two 
minutes. 

24. Buttered Eggs. — Heat and grease the muffin irons; break an egg 
into each ring; put salt, pepper and a lump of butter on each; set in the 
oven until slightly browned ; remove with a fork ar^d serve hot. 

25. Egg Fricassee. — Warm and butter well some individual vegetable 
dishes, break a couple of eggs into each, season with pepper and salt, bake 
till the whites are set, serve in the dishes they are baked in and garnish 
with watercress. 

26. Dropped Eggs. — Lay the muffin rings in a pan of boiling salted 
water and carefully drop an egg into each ring. When the whites have set 

*-10 



146 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIFE BOOK. 

lake the eggs up with care and lay each on a piece of buttered toast that 
has been moistened with hot water. Sprinkle . each with salt and pepper. 
27.' Steamed Eggs. — Break the eggs into a buttered tin plate and set 
in a steamer over a kettle of boiling water and steam until the whites are 
cooked. They will keep their form better if broken into patty tins. If 
cooked in this way the whites will be light and tender and not leathery 
as when cooked other ways. Excellent for invalids. 

28. Frizzled Eggs.— Put a pinch of salt and a little pepper into a tea- 
cup with a piece of butter the size of a hazelnut. Break in two eggs with- 
out stirring and set the cup in a pan of boiling water. When the whites 
are set, serve at once in the cup they were cooked in. 

29. Potted Eggs. — Pound the yolks of a dozen hard-boiled eggs with 
nnchovy sauce; mix to a paste with two ounce? of fresh butter-and season 
with two teaspponfuls of salt and one teaspqonful of white pepper. Have 
ready some small pots and while filling with the paste strew in the chopped 
whites of the eggs. Cover the tops with clarified butter. Can not be kept 
long. 

30. Eggs a la Suisse. — Spread two ounces of fresh butter over the bot- 
tom of a dish, cover with grated cheese and break eight whole eggs upon the 
cheese without breaking the yolks. Season with red pepper and salt if 
needed; pour a little cream over the eggs; sprinkle about two ounces of 
grated cheese over the top and place in a moderate oven for about fifteen 
minutes. Brown by passing a hot salamander over the top. 

31. Eggs Brouille. — Cut two mushrooms into dice and fry for a minute 
in a tablespoonful of butter. Beat together six eggs, % cup-of milk or cream, 
1 teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper and put them in a sauce pan. Add 
the mushrooms and two tablespoonfuls of butter and stir over a moderate 
fire until the mixture begins to thicken. Remove from the fire and beat 
rapidly until the mixture becomes thick and creamy. Heap the mixture 
on slices of toast on a hot dish, garnish with points of toast and serve at 
once. 

32. Pickled Eggs. — Boil sixteen eggs for twelve minutes, dip into cold 
water and remove the shells. Into a stew pan put one quart of vinegar, 
one-half ounce of Jamaica pepper, one-half ounce of black pepper and one- 
half ounce of ginger; simmer for ten minutes. Put the eggs into a jar and 
pour the boiling vinegar over them and when cold tie a bladder over the 
jar to exclude the air. In a month they will be ready for use. 

33. Eggs a la Bonne Femme. — Boil six large eggs for ten minutes and 
when cool carefully remove the shells ; cut in halves and take out the yolks. 
Cut a small piece oSf the point of each of the whites that they may stand 
on end like cups. Make very small dice of cold chicken, ham, boiled beets 
and the eggs. Fill the whites to the brim -yvith the dice and pile the dice 
high in the center — two of beets, two of ham and chicken and two of hard 
yolks. Put some lettuce on dish and arrange the eggs amongst it. 

34. Breaded Eggs. — Cut some hard-boiled eggs mto thick slices; salt 
and pepper each slice and dip it into beaten raw egg, then in powdered cracker 
crumbs or very fine bread crumbs and fry in very hot butter. Drain off 
all the grease and serve while hot. ^ 

S5. Lunch Eggs.— Remove the shells from the desired number of hard- 
fcoiled eggs and cut the eggs lengthwise in halves. Remove the yolks and 



EGGS. 147 

crumble in a bowl. Add peppetj salt, mustard and a l-ttle melted butter; 
mix thoroughly, fill the whites with the mixture and serve. ^ 

36. Frothed Eggs. — Mix a tablespoonful ..of water with ./the juice of a 
lemon and beat it up with the whites of four eggs and the yglks of eight. 
Add a pinch of salt and sweeten to taste. Fry carefully (abcm%-^f our minutes) 
in an omelet pan. Have ready the remaining four whites 'whipped to a 
froth with a pound of fine sugar and flavored with lemon or vanilla. Put the 
omelet on a dish and heap the frothed egg over it. Brown lightly in the 
oven. .For four persons. 

37. Eggs in Paper Cases. — Make a seasoning with a cupful of fine 
bread crumbs, 1 clove of garlic, 1 teaspoonful of. green onions, 1 teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Paint thickly the inside of six small 
paper cases with melted butter and sprinkle a little seasoning into each. 
Break an egg into each case and cover with more of the crumbs. Bake in 
a gentle oven until the eggs are set, then serve in the cases. The eggs may 
be baked in small molds if desired and then turned on a dish before serving. 

OMELETS. 

As will be seen from the recipes, opinions differ as to the way an omelet 
should be made, but the following general directions have given good 
results. 

The yolks should be beaten lightly. Much beating will make them too 
thin and it is said that twelve beats is the magic number. Add the milk, 
pepper, salt and flour if it is used, and lastly add the whites beaten to a 
stiff froth. The skillet should be as hot as possible without scorching the 
butter ; after putting in a tablespoonful of butter the omelet should be poured 
in and it should begin to bubble and rise in flakes at once. It should be raised 
from the bottom occasionally with a thin, broad-bladed knife to prevent 
burning. Fold over as soon as the under side is set enough to hold together. 
Shake the skillet so as to free the omelet, slide it carefully on a hot platter 
and serve at once. It should be cooked in from three to five minutes. 

1. Omelet. — One cup of milk, 3 eggs, 1 heaping tablespoonful of flour, 
and a little salt. Beat the eggs separately; stir milk, flour and eggs together; 
turn into a hot frying pan. Cook with plenty of butter; cut in quarters and 
fold over the other. 

2. Potato Omelet. — One cup of cold mashed potatoes, put again through 
the ricer; 2 eggs, beaten separately; salt; drop from a spOon on a hot, well- 
butte'red skillet ; when brown turn and brown on the other side. Serve at once. 

3. French Omelet. — Thoroughly beat 8 .eggs separately; add to the 
yolks 8 tablespoonfuls of sweet milk, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful 
of good baking powder, pepper and salt ; beat well together ; then fold in 
lightly at the last, the beaten whites. Have ready a skillet with melted 
butter, smoking hot, and pour in the mixture ; let cook on bottom, then put in 
oven from 5 to 10 minutes; serve at once. 

4. Baked Omelet. — ^One cup of boiling milk, 6 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of 
cornstarch, mixed with a little cold milk;- season with salt and pepper; beat 
the yolks of eggs light and pour upon them the boiling milk ; stir in the corn- 
starch; whip in the beaten -^hites.of eggs; have dish well buttered.and hot; 
then pour in omelet and bake 12 minutes, or until set in middle. Serve 
at «nce. 



148 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

5. Jelly or Marmalade Omelet. — Make a plain omelet and just before 
turning one half over the other spread it with jelly or marmalade. 

6. Ham Omelet. — Make a plain omelet and sprinkle on some finely 
chopped ham just before turning one half over the other. Garnish with 
small pieces of hara. 



VEGETABLES. 

Serenely full the epicure would say — 

" Fate cannot harm me — I have dined to-day." 

— Sidney Smith. 

1. Boston Baked Beans. — Wash one quart of small white beans and 
soak them over night, in soft water. In the morning drain and put with 
them 1 pound of fresh pork and boil until the beans begin to split open. 
Put them in a colander and rinse with cold water; then put about half of 
them in an earthen pot, lay in the pork, cover with the remainder of the 
beans. Mix 1 tablespoonful of molasses and 1 teaspoonful of mustard with 
a teacup of water and pour over the beans, adding enough boiling water to 
cover. Bake 4 hours, adding' water occasionally. 

2. Corn Oysters. — One pint of green corn, or canned corn will do; 
a small cup of flour, 1 well-beaten tgg, 1 tablespoonful sweet cream, ^ tea- 
spoonful of salt. Mix well and fry like oysters in butter. 

3. Com a la Southern. — To one can chopped corn or kornlet add 2 eggs 
slightly beaten, % teaspoonful pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, iy2 tablespoon- 
fuls melted butter and 1 pint scalded milk. Turn into buttered pudding dish 
and bake in slow oven until firm. 

4. Baked Corn. — One can corn, 3 well-beaten eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls 
butter, 1 tablespoonful sugar, % pint .sweet milk, pepper and salt to taste ; 
thicken with cracker crumbs and bake an hour. Very nice for a luncheon. 

5. Corn Pudding. — One pint grated corn, 1 pint of milk or, if canned 
com is used, then less milk, 1 tablespoonful of flour wet with milk, a pinch 
of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 2 eggs, a few bits of butter on top. Bake 
about an hour in a slow oven. Stir when beginning to brown. 

6. Celery on Toast. — ^Use coarse stalks of celery left from table ; scrape 
them and cut into half-inch lengths; cover with water and cook very slowly 
for an hour. When nearly done let the water cook away until almost dry; 
cover with a cream dressing made of milk, butter and flour; season with 
pepper and salt and serve on small square slices of toast, keeping as hot as 
possible. 

7. Southern Cabbage. — Chop fine a medium sized cabbage; put into 
a stew pan with boiling water to cover ; boil 15 minutes ; drain off all the 
water and add the following dressing: y2 teacup vinegar, % as much sugar, 
pepper and salt, % teaspoonful salad oil or butjter. When boiling hot add 1 
teacupful cream or milk and one egg stirred together. Mix thoroughly and at 
once with cabbage and cook a moment. Serve hot. Very delicate and good. 

8. Cauliflower. — ^Trim off the outside leaves from cauliflowers that are 
close and white, cut off the stalk flat at the bottom, let them lie in salt and 
water, heads down, for an hour before boiling. Put them in boiling water 



VEGETABLES. 149 

with plenty of salt, skim it well and let cook slowly, and take up as soon as 
done. Too much cooking will spoil it. Cook 15 or. 30 minutes, according 
to size of head. Serve with white sauce. 

9. Egg Plant. — Pare the egg plant and slice it thin ; sprinkle each slice 
with salt; lay slice upon slice and place a plate upon the top. The salt will 
drain out the disagreeable, bitter flavor. Half an hour before serving wipe 
each slice dry, dip into beaten egg, then in fine cracker crumbs and fry in 
plenty of hot butter; drain on a brown wrapping paper as they come from 
the frying pan, crisp and brown. Serve at once on a hot platter. 

10. Fried Mushrooms. — Peel the mushrooms and put into butter; let 
them heat thoroughly through (too much cooking toughens them) ; season 
well with butter, salt and pepper and serve on buttered toast. 

11. Escalloped Onions.^Fill a buttered pudding dish with alternate 
slices of onions and cracker crumbs (sonie prefer flour) ; season with butter, 
salt and pepper and pour over the whole a cup of milk. Bake slowly for 30 
minutes or until the onions are done. 

12. Baked Onions. — Boil the onions in salt water until tender. Put in 
a well buttered pan, cover with bread crumbs and bits of butter, salt and 
pepper -and bake till done. 

, 13. Creamed Potatoes. — Peel the potatoes and cut into half-inch diet. 
Cover with water and boil until tender. Drain and, for every pint of po- 
tatoes, add a cup of cream sauce made as follows : Cook 1 tablespoonful each 
of flour and butter together until they bubble; then add slowly, while stir- 
ring, 1 pint of hot milk with salt and a very little pepper, and the whole 
should be stirred and cooked to a thick cream. Left-over potatoes may be 
used for this dish. Place them in a stew pan and cover with milk, let simmer 
until milk is absorbed. Add the cream sauce. 

14. Stuffed Potatoes.^— Wash some fine large potatoes and bake until 
just done; remove from the oven and cut in halves and remove the inside; 
mash this until very smooth and season with butter and salt or cream and salt. 
Refill the shells; place in a shallow pan with uncut end down and return to 
ov-en for 15 minutes, or until a delicate brown, and serve immediately. 

15. Potato Fluff. — Boil a dozen medium ^zed potatoes until tender. 
When done remove t|je skins and rub through a colander; add y^ pint of 
hot milk or cream and 2 tablespoonfuls of salt. Beat until soft and then 
stir in carefully the well-beaten whites of 3 eggs. Heap in a baking dish 
and bake in the oven. Serve at once. 

16. Glazed Sweet Potatoes.-— Wash and pare half a dozen medium sized 
potatoes. Cook 10 minutes in boiling salted water ; drain, cut in halves length- . 
wise, and put in buttered pah. Make a syrup by boiling ^ cup sugar, 1 
tablespoonful butter and 2 tablespoonfuls water, 3 miiiutes. Brush potatoes 
^ith syrup and bake 15 minutes, basting twice with reriiaining syrup. 

17. Spinach. — Pick and wash the spinach with great care; drain it and 
throw it into boiling water ; cook only a few minutes. Press out all the water ; 
put spinach into a stew pan with a piece of butter, some salt and pepper, 
^fccfpping it while cooking. Serve it with poached eggs, or hard-boiled eggs 
sliced or grated over the top. 

18. Squash Cakes. — One cup of squash, sifted ; 3 cups of flour or enough 
to mix thick with a spoon, 1 tablespoonful vinegar, 1 tablespoonful butter, 
salt, 1 t'g'g, 1 cup milk, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in gem pans in 
a quick oven, or put on a pan by spoonfuls and bake as drop^ cakes. 



150 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

19. Salsify or Vegetable Oyster. — Prepared as vegetable or soup this 
is a most delicious vegetable if properly cooked. They should be scraped 
under water or they will turn brown and they should be served as soon as 
taken from the stove. When used a's a vegetable, cut lengthwise; cut in 
short pieces and cook until tender ; drain ; and season with butter, salt and 
pepper and cream, if desired. When used for soup, cut crosswise in thin 
slices and cook slpwly for a long time. A little salt codfish added is a great 
improvement. 

SO. Roasted Tomatoes. — Dip the tomatoes into hot water and remove 
the skins; cut a piece from the stem end and scoop out a little of the pulp 
and place a small piece of butter in the cavity; dust with salt and a little- 
cayenne pepper ; replace the top ; sprinkle with crumbs. Put a little piece of 
butter on each and place on a slice of bread; cut out with a biscuit cutter; 
put into a baking pan and bake in a moderate oven 15 or 20 minutes. 

31. Tomatoes a la Spanish. — Peel tomatoes without scalding an?l cut 
into small pieces. To each pint of tomato add 1 small onion, % teaspoonful 
salt, 1 teaspoonful sugar and % small green hot pepper, leaving out seeds. 
Cut onion and pepper very fine and add 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Eatfen 
as a relish. 

23. Escalloped Potatoes. — Peel and slice the potatoes and place a layer 
in a baking dish; sprinkle with flour; season with pepper, salt and butter; 
repeat this until pan is nearly full ; cover with milk or cream and bake until 
potatoes are done. 

S3. Potato Croquettes. — Pass 6 boiled potatoes through a sieve and add 
to them 3 tablespoonfuls of ham grated or minced fine, a little grated nut- 
meg, salt and pepper to taste and chopped parsley; work the yolks of 3 or 
4 eggs into this mixture, then make in balls an^ roll in bread crumbs and fry. 

34. Corn and Tomatoes. — Cook the desired amount of tomatoes; then 
cut the corn from several cobs that have been boiled, add to tomatoes and 
season well ; cook until corn is thoroughly heated ; if the mixture is too thin, 
add more corn. 

25. Stewed Onions. — Peel and boil the onions in salted water till tender, 
changing water twice while boiling ; drain ; add milk and flour enough to 
slightly thicken and season with butter, pepper and salt. 

26. Fried Egg Plant. — Peel and cut in slices about ^ inch thick, sprinkle 
with a little salt and let it stand 1 or 2 hours; then dip first^n beaten egg, 
then in cracker dust and fry in hot butter ; season with pepper and salt while 
frying ; serve while hot. 

27. Potatoes on Half Shell. — Bake 3 potatoes; carefully cut them in 
halves lengthwise ; scoop out in hot bowl ; mash and add 1 even tablespoonful 
butter, 1 tablespoonful hot milk, "pepper and salt to taste ; beat whites of 2 
eggs stiff and mix;, fill the skins with this mixture and brown in oven. 

28. Escalloped Corn. — One can com, 1 quart milk, % pound rolled 
crackers, 1 tablespoonful butter, pepper and salt to taste ; bake brown in a 
quiclc oven. 

29. Potato Rolls. — Roll out a light biscuit dough about % inch thick, 
then cut the potatoes about the same tjiickness and lay them on the crust 
and then roll up and put in the pan with your roast, having plenty of water 
in the pan ; after roast is done, lift your roll out on a plate ; then make^ a 
gravy and serve with roll. This is fine. 

30. Carrots witl? Milk- — Wash, scrape and slice the carrots; boil soft. 



RELISHES, CHEESE AND CHAFING DISH COOKERY 151 

drain, almost cover with milk, season with salt, pepper and butter; make 
thickening with milk and flour; stir in carrots, let boil a few minutes and 
cerve'. 

31. Potato Puffs. — Stir 3 tabkspoonfuls of melted butter into 3 cups 
of cold mashed potatoes ; beat to a cream and then add 3 beaten eggs, 1 
cup of milk and salt to taste ; pour into a deep dish and bake in a quick oven. 

33. Escalloped Tomatoes. — Put a layer of bread crumbs in a buttered 
dish, then a layer of tomatoes, then a layer of corn; sprinkle with pepper, 
salt and bits of butter (a little onion may be added if desired) ; then an- 
other layer of crumbs, another of tomatoes, corn and seasoning, until the 
dish is filled; the corn may be omitted, it is just as good without. 

33. Stewed Cucumbers. — Slice cucumbers in pieces % inch thick ; boil 
10 - minutes in hot water ; drain ; then add milk, butter, pepper and salt ; 
boil 5 minutes. 

34. Roast Pork and Lima Beans. — Put roast of pork into large roast 
pan, leave room enough on each side for vegetables ; cook 1 pint of lima 
beans tender, season with pepper and salt, then put in roast pan on one 
side of meat, potatoes on the other side ; cook until all are done. The beans 
should be a light brown. 

35. French Stew. — One pound fresh, lean pork, cut in pieces ; 3 cups 
potatoes cut in dice ; 3 good sized onions ; water to cover the whole ; pepper 
and salt to taste ; cook slowly for 45 minutes. 

36. Fried Tomatoes.-r— Slice thickly some ripe tomatoes, dip in beaten 
egg and cracker crumbs and brown in skillet with hot butter, turning often. 
After tomatoes are taken out make a dressing by adding' milk and flour to 
what remains in skillet. Pour over tomatoes. Salt to taste. 

37. Corn Mock Oysters. — One-half dozen ears of young sweet corn 
grated, 3 tablespobnfuls of sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 egg, 1 teacup- 
ful of floui ; drop with a spoon into hot fat or butter and fry as oysters. 



RELISHES, CHEESE, AND CHAFING DISH 

COOKERY. 

Some are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some to be chewed and 

digested. — Bacon. 

1. Macaroni and Chee$e. — Boil % box of macaroni in salted soft 
water, wash in cold water, gtate a pound of cheese (cream preferred), mix 
cheese with i pint of bread crumbs; place macaroni in baking dish with 
cheese and -crumbs over it; season with pepper, salt and butter; almost cover 
with milk and set in oven until brown. 

3. A Delicious Omelet. — Four well beaten eggs, 1 cup of milk in which 
is soaked Yz cup of bread crumbs, salt to season ; mix all and pour in a hot 
frying pan in which is a generous piece of butter ; coOk slowly for 10 minutes 
and turn out on a hot platter. 

3. Nut Loaf (A Vegetarian Dish).— One cup rolled crackers, 1 cup 
chopped English walnuts, beaten yolks of 3 eggs, season with pepper and 
salt, 3 teaspoonfuls sugar, stir in a large cup of sweet milk, fold in the 
beaten whites of 3 eggs, put in a deep buttered pan and bake in a slqw oven. 



153 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

4. Deviled Eggs. — Remove the shells from cold hard-boiled eggs, cut 
in halves and remove the yolks, put in a bowl; add pepper, salt, butter and 
vinegar to taste ; mix it well with a spoon until smooth, then put the mixture 
back in the whites; fine for lunch. 

5. Cheese Fouder. — To one cup of rolled crackers add i/^ pint of milk, 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs, small cup of grated cheese, whites of eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth ; mix gently and bake 20 minutes in a quick oven. 

6. Plain Rarebit. — One-half pound finely cut cheese, 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter, pepper to taste and a pinch of salt, % cup of milk or cream, yolks of 
2 eggs; melt the butter and add cheese, salt and pepper; when the cheese 
is partly melted, add gradually the cream and the egg yolks slightly beaten ; 
pour this over a piece of toasted bread cut in small squares. 

7. Creamed Chicken and Mushrooms. — Melt 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
with 2 of flour, season with l^ teaspoonful of celery salt and salt and pepper ; 
stir until smooth, then stir in gradually 1 cup of hot milk. When it has 
become smooth and thickened, add 2 cups of cold cooked chicken cut in small 
pieces and % can of mushrooms cut in halves. Stir carefully until hot and 
serve on toast or in patty shells. / 

8. Creamed Oysters. — Add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour to 2 tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, mix without browning, add % cup of cream and the liquor 
from a quart of oyst-ers. Stir until it boils; add % teaspoonful of salt and 
a dash of white pepper, with a quart of drained oysters ; cook well and serve 
very hot on toast or large crackers. 

9. Corn Oysters. — -Mix in a dish 1 well beaten egg and one cup of 
chopped corn, also Y^ cup of flour; season highly with pepper and salt; 
drop the mixture with a spoon to the size of a large oyster on the hot, well- 
buttered blazer. 

10. Clams a la Newburg. — Melt 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, stir until 
creamy, then add 1 gill of sherry. Beat together the yolks of 2 eggs, and 
% pint of cream, add and stir constantly; when well mixed stir in one pint 
of clams well trimmed and cook. 

11. Cheese Fondu. — Put a tablespoonful of butter in a dish; when 
melted add 1 cup of milk, 2 cups of grated cheese, 1 cup of fine bread crumbs, 
saltspoonful of mustard and a pinch of cayenne. Stir constantly and add 
just before serving 2 well beaten eggs. 

12. Chocolate SoufHe. — Melt 2 ounces of chocolate ; add 4 tablespoonfuls 
of hot water and I/2 cup of granulated sugar; cook until smooth; then add 
y2 cup of cream and 14 cup of milk, stirring constantly. Pour in the yolks 
of 2 eggs mixed with 1 tablespoonful of cream and, when slightly thick- 
ened, fold in the whites beaten stiff ; cook 10 minutes and serve with whipped 
cream. 

13. Fricassee of Dried Beef. — Melt 1 tablespoonful of butter, with i/^ 
pint of milk, or cream sauce ; add 1 cup of beef chopped fine (that has been 
soaked in boiling water for 15 minutes) and 2 beaten eggs and stir until the 
sauce is thick. Serve on toast. 

14. Creamed Chicken. — One cup milk, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour, salt and pepper, 2 cups chicken meat cut fine. Make sauce 
as in shrimp wiggle and add chicken, stirring until hot; serve on toast or 
crackers. Lobster, dried beef, sweetbreads or crab meat may be used instead 
of chicken. 



RELISHES, CHEESE AND CHAFING DISH COOKERY. 153 

15. Deviled Crabs. — Two tablespoonfuls butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 
2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine, 1 cup chopped crab meat, % cup milk, % cup 
chopped mushrooms, yolk of 1 egg, salt and cayenne pepper. Make sauce 
with butter, flour and milk ; stir in yolk of egg beaten slightly, then wine ; 
now add crab meat, mushrooms, salt and pepper. Serve hot with cheese 
sandwiches or wafers. 

16. Dreams. — Take 2 pieces of bread of medium thickness and put 
between them a thin piece of mild American cheese and toast to a good brown 
in hot butter. 

17. Fricasseed Eggs. — To some veal gravy add a little flour and cream, 
butter the size of a walnut, nutmeg, pepper, salt, chopped parsley and a 
few pickled mushrooms. Let the mixture boil up well, then pour it over 
sliced hard-boiled eggs; arrange- on a platter with small bits of toast. 

18. Fruit Canopes. — Beat 2 eggs with % cup of milk, iy2 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar and % tea^poonful of salt. Dip into this small pieces of bread and 
saute them in the hot, buttered blazer over direct heat. On these pieces 
of toast spread a spoonful of fig paste, orange marmalade or pineapple and 
canned peaches; garnish with whipped cream. 

19. Halibut a la Hollandaise. — Take cooked- and flaked halibut and 
cook in Hollandaise sauce, made as follows : — Take ^2 cup of butter and 
wash to -remove the salt, then divide into 3 pieces ; put 1 piece into the 
blazer and add the yolks of 2 eggs and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. 
Stir constantly, until the butter is melted, then add the second piece of 
butter and, as it thickens^ add the third piece, also Vs cup of boiling water. 
Season with y^ teaspoonful of salt and a dash of cayenne. 

20. Shrimp Wiggle. — One cup milk, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls flour, salt and pepper, 1 can of shrimp, 1 can of peas ; put butter 
in chafing dish ; when melted -add flour, salt and pepper, stirring until smooth ; 
add miUc slowly. When the sauce is hot add peas and shrimp (having drained 
both on taking them from the cans) and cook until heated through. Serve 
\/ith salted crackers or wafers. 

31. Sardines on Toast. — Drain sardines ; heat them through, turning 
frequently ; serve on toast or crackers. 

23. Welsh Rarebit. — One pound chopped cream cheese, % glass of beer 
or ale, yolk of 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful butter, % teaspoonful dry mustard, a 
dash of red pepper and a little salt. Melt the butter ; then add the cheese, 
stirring all the time. When the cheese begins to melt, gradually pour in 
the beer. When they are well blended add the yolk of the egg, salt, red pep- 
per and mustard. Stir in well, then pour on toast or crackers 

23. Cheese Balls. — Grate % pound of cheese, add the yolk of 1 egg, a 
very little red pepper, ^4 cup of chopped English walnuts, and enough 
sweet cream to roll into balls, size of an English walnut; roll balls in finely 
chopped parsley. Serve with wafers and coffee the last course. 

24. Cheese Ramekins. — Mix chopped or grated cheese with bread 
crumbs, ^ cup of cheese to 1 cup of crumbs; cover with milk 'and bake for 
15 or 20 minutes. This should be baked and served in individual ramekin 
dishes. One-half cup of chopped hard-boiled eggs can be added if desired. 

25. Cheese Straws. — ^Yolks of 3 eggs, 1 pound of grated cheese, 1 tea- 
spoonful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful qi ground mace, and a 
yinch of red pepper. Mix all together with enough flour to make dough, as for 



154 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

pie crust. Roll very thin and cut into strips as narrow or as long as desired. 
Lay separately in greased pan. Bake in a quick oven to a light brown. 

36. Cheese Sauce for Potatoes. — One tablespoonful of flour,* 1 table- 
spoonful of butter, i^ pint of milk, % pound cheese, grated; melt the butter 
in a pan; add flour and stir until smooth; stir the milk in gradually and 
add the cheese. Season with pepper and salt, and serve with mashed potatoes. 

27. Mexican Macaroni. — Into a tablespoonful of hot browned butter 
stir 1 cup of cooked macaroni, 1 large tomato, 1 small onion, salt and paprika. 
When well browned add 1 cup of soup stock ; pour into a buttered pan and 
cover the top with bread or cracker crumbs; bake half an hour. 

28. Spaghetti. — Break into small pieces 2 cups of spaghetti and boil 
in salted water until perfectly tender. Butter a baking dish, cover the 
bottom with a layer of spaghetti, then a layer of tomatoes, then a layer of 
cheese ; season each layer with paprika, salt and pepper. When the dish 
is full, finish off with the cheese and pour over this enough milk or cream 
to cover to the top of the pan. Bake slowly 2 hours, until it is rather dry 
and a rich brown. 



THE ART OF CANDY MAKING, 

These Secrets, Obtained from an Expert Confectioner, Enable the Housewife 
from a few Recipes to Make Endless Varieties of Candy, Including ' 
Chocolates, Bonbons, Fudges, Taffies, Caramels, Etc. 

"Sweets for "the Sweet." 



At certain seasons and on special occasions, especially at Christmas 
time, every housewife desires to know something of the art of candy making 
and to make in her own kitchen and with ordinary cooking utensils, some 
of the sweets displayed so temptingly in the up-to-date confectionery stores. 
Candy making, to the layman, is a mysterious art suggestive of bright copper 
kettles, white marble slabs, massive cooking furnaces, , a confusion of ex- 
pensive machinery and white-aproned experts with years of experience and 
a knowledge of many recipes and secret processes, together with a wealth of 
capital. 

And for the most part confectioners aim to keep all knowledge of theii 
aft to themselves and for this reason but few really good recipes find their 
way into the popular cook books, while no knowledge of the principles under- 
lying the art are made public. The writer, having had years of experience 
and having now retired from business, makes known for the^ first time 
candy secrets obtained from confectiojiers whose whole lives have been 
devoted to the work and who are now operating some of the finest stores 
in the East. Candies made from several of these recipes have taken prizes 
in New York City in competition with the best artists of the world. Of 
course better results are obtained after one has had experience in the work 
and yet we will endeavor, even at the expense of repetition, to make the proc- 
ess so clear that the amateur, by carefully following the instructions given, 
may achieve results rivaling the products of the experienced confectioners 



THE ART OF CANDY MAKING. m 

both in quality and appearance, and yet have the satisfaction of knowing it 
is " ]iionie-made." 

The professional candy maker uses expensive machinery and endless 
paraphernalia, not because they are necessary to good results, but because 
he manufactures in large quantities and the saving of time and labor is 
essential. ;^ 

PRECAUTIONS TO PREVENT SUGARING OR GRAINING IN MAK, 
ING ALL KINDS OF CANDY.— 

In making all candies, except those that scorch easily, as soon as the 
sugar is dissolved and it begins to boil it is well to cover the vessel for a 
short time, say two or three minutes, that the steam may -soften any sugar 
sticking to the sides of the kettle, then to take a damp cloth and carefully 
remove all undissolved sugar. This is important that the candy may not 
" grain " or turn back to sugar. If the candy is one that easily burns and 
requires stirring the kettle must be cleaned without steaming. 

Either pure glucose or cream of tartar are generally used to prevent 
" sugaring." Vinegar will do but is not so sure. Be careful also that there 
is no sugar,,-not even a few grains, on the platter or marble upon which the 
candy is poured. Needlessly stirring or handling the batch while cooling 
will sometimes cause " graining." In spite of all precautions this will some- 
times happen. It must then be covered with water, again placed on the 
stove and re-cooked but will seldom be as nice as when cooked but once. 

COLORS. 

If desired, the colors for candies may be made at home instead of being 
purchased at a confectionery. 

For Red.— -Take one-half pint of water, add one ounce of cochineal and 
boil for five minutes and add one-half ounce of powdered alum, one ounce 
of cream of tartar and boil for ten minutes. Take from stove and stir at 
once in two ounces of sugar and bottle for use. 

For Blue. — Rub indigo in a little water in a saucer. 

For Yellow. — Rub gamboge in water in same way. 

For Green. — Boil spinach leaves in a little water for one minute, strain 
and bottle, 

TESTING-JIOW TO TELL WHEN THE CANDY IS DONE OR HOW 
LONG IT SHOULD BE COOKED.— 

Caddies are cooked for a short or long time, according as a low or 
high degree of heat, or temperature, is desired. Soft candies are cooked but 
a short time as only a low degree of temperature is needed. Hard candies 
are cooked longer or to a higher degree. For trying or testing the temperature, 
so as to know when the candy is done and should be removed from the stove, 
the confectioner generally uses a thermometer which he places in the boiling 
syrup, but as one fit for this purpose is rather expensive the housewife will 
find it more practical to try or test the candy by dropping a little of the 
boiling syrup into cold water. The confectioner uses his finger for this 
purpose by first wetting it in cold water, but it is safer for the beginner 
to use a spoon. The longer the candy cooks, or the higher the degree of 
temperature, the harder will it become when a little is thus chilled in cold 
water. One. should try or test it frequently in this manner as it takes but a 
few moments over a hot fire to raise it from a low to a high degree. In 



156 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

spite of care, should it be left on too long knd be too hard when tested, 
add a little water to reduce it back and cook until it is of the right consistency 
when tested again. 

Below we give a table that will enable you to test properly and tell when 
the candy is done. Then under each recipe we refer you to this table so 
that you may know just how long each candy should cook. Much of your 
success depends upon removing the cand)7 from the stove at the right time. 
It will be seen from this table that if. candy be boiled a short time and then 
a little be dropped into cold water it can just be felt with the finger or seen 
as syrup or molasses in the water. This is called the smooth (No. 1, below) . 
If cooked a little longer and then dropped into water it will stick or cling 
to the linger but is still too soft to give shape or roll into a ball. This is the 
thread (No. 2, below). If cooked still longer and again tested it may be rolled 
between the fingers into a soft ball and is called the soft ball or feather (No. 3, 
below). And so it continues to get harder through the various degrees until 
if cooked long enough and again tested it becomes very hard when cooled 
in water and may be broicen like glass in the fingers; This is the dry crack 
(No. 7, below). If a thermometer were put into the boiling candy it would 
be found at the various stages^ to register the degrees given with each testing, 
This table may be used in cooking icings and frostings as well as candies. 
Use cold water. 

TESTING TABLE. 

No. 1. — ^The Smooth (218 degrees). The boiling syrup or candy can 
just be detected when dropped into water and is about the consistency of 
molasses. (IJsed for crystallizing creams, candies, etc.) 

No. 3. — The Thread (235 degrees). The candy will stick or cling to the 
finger but will not retain the shape of a ball when rolled" between "them. 
(Used for making liquors, etc.) 

No. 3.— The Soft Ball or Feather (240 degrees).— The candy when cooled 
in water and rolled between the fingers will take the form of a soft ball. 
(Used for fondants, cream goods and fruit candies.) 

No. 4.— Thje Hard Ball (245 to 250 degrees). When cooled in water and 
rolled between the fingers the candy will take the form of a rather hard ball 
but is not hard enough to crack when bent or broken. (Used for some 
fondants and cream goods, such as cocoanut and combination treams.) 

No. 5. — The First Crack (2S0 degrees). Will just crack when bent or 
broken between the fingers. (Used for caramels, butter scotch, Japanese 
cocoanut bars, etc.) 

No. 6. — ^The Second Crack (S5S to 260 degrees). Will crack more easily 
than for first crack and will chew free without sticking to the teeth. (Used 
for most taffies or candies that are pulled.) i 

No. 7. — The Dry Crack (300 to 310 degrees). When cooled in water it 
will break brittle like glass in the fingers. If cooked much longer the candy 
will color and burn. (Used for stick candy and all kinds of hard clear 
candies.) 

FONDANTS. — The basis of cream candies of nearly every description 
is a combination of sugar, cream of tartar and water cooked together and 
then stirred and creamed. By confectioners it is called " fondant." This 
fondant is variously colored, flavored and combined with chocolate, fruits, 
nuts, etc., to make chocolates, bonbons and wafers of nearly every descrip- 



THE ART OF CANDY MAKING. 157 

tion. The making of fondant is simple if accuracy is observed in following 
instructions^ and as it is the foundation of several hundred and in fact, as 
will be seen later, of several thousand varieties of cream candies, with this 
secret in her possession and a little experience, the housewife may compete 
with the confectioner in making endless/ varieties of toothsome sweets. 

WHITE FONDANT is made by taking: 
Four cups granulated sugar 
Two cups hot water 
One level teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

Stir over a moderate fire until the sugar is dissolved. When it be- 
gins to boil, steam and wash the sides of the vessel to remove all sugar, 
as directed above. Then place over a quick fire and allow it to boil without 
stirring until it will form a soft ball when tested in cold water. (See No. 
3 in Testing Table.) Remove from fire and set aside until cool but not en- 
tirely cold, then stir vigorously with a spoon or wooden paddle- until it 
creams and becomes quite, stiff. When too thick to stir, knead it thoroughly 
in the hands until light and creamy. Do not be afraid of kneading too much. 
Place in an earthen vessel or crock, keep covered with a damp cloth and in 
twenty-four hours it will be ready for use, but if the cloth is kept damp it 
will keep a number of weeks and perhaps several months and be all the better. 
This is white fondant and is the one mostly used. 

MAPLE FONDANT is made by taking: 
Four cups brown sugar 
Two cups maple syrup 
Two cups hot water 
One level teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

Cook and treat this the same as white fondant above. 

When taken from the crock, should the top of the fondant be dry or 
hard it may be kneaded again until it is all of the same consistency. 

To- Color Fondant. — Work or knead in a little at a time any color de- 
sired, until of the proper shade. 

To Flavor Fondant. — Work in the desired flavor in the same way to suit 
the taste. 

We will now proceed to the various combinations or cream candies which 
may be made from fondant. 

CREAM CANDIES. 

Cream candies include chocolates, bonbons, wafers, etc., and of each 
there are many varieties. 

1. Chocolates. — We will begin with those made from the white fon- 
dant described above. Color and flavor some of the fondant and roll it into 
small bails. A little starch may be used upon the hands to prevent sticking. 
Let thesestand for an hour or two then dip into melted chocolate. Melt the 
chocolate by putting it into a dish and setting in a vessel of hot water. For 
dipping the drops use a fork or large needle and lay them upon parafline or 
waxed paper to harden. If the waxed paper is not at hand use common 
white paper that has been well greased with butter 

3. Sweet Sweets and Bitter Sweets. — If the fondant is left uncolored 
and unflavored two varieties are obtained Tjy dipping the drops into either 
9we«t. or bitter chocolate. If flavored with vanilla those dipped in sweet 



158 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

chocolate are called " Sweet Sweets " and those dipped in bitter chocolate are 
called " Bitter Sweets." 

3. Various Chocolates. — The white fondant above may be colored pink, 
red, blue, yellow, green or orange and rolled and dipped into either bitter or 
sweet chocolate so that we will have fourteen varieties. Each one of these 
fourteen, before being rolled and dipped, may be flavored with either vanilla, 
lemon, pineapple, orange, wintergreen, peppermint, raspberry, strawberry, 
etc., giving 112 varieties. As soon as dipped in chocolate a nut kernel or 
piece of candied fruit may be placed on top of each chocolate. By using 
"English walnuts, black walnuts, pecans, hickory nuts, almonds, hazelnuts, 
pistachio nuts, filberts, cream nuts, candied cherries, or small pieces of citron 
or candied pineapple, etc., for this purpose, the number of varieties is multi- 
plied by twelve, which makes over 1300 kinds. Instead of placing these 
nuts and fruits on top of the chocolate drop, the fondant may be rolled around 
any of th«m and then dipped in chocolate. By using the various colors and 
flavors of fondant in this way our 1300 is doubled to 2600 kinds. 

Then the maple fondant may be used in the same number of ways, 
which again doubles the number of kinds so that we have over 5000 varieties 
of chocolate drops. In fact the combinations may be multiplied almost in- 
definitel}^ to suit the taste or fancy of the confectioner and his patrons. 

4. Bonbons.— These are made the same as chocolates except that the 
rolled fondant is dipped in melted fondant instead of chocolate. Take some 
of the white fondant in a vessel, set this vessel into a kettle of hot water 
until the fondant is dissolved. Dip the drops made from either the white 
or maple fondant into this m,elted fondant the same as into the chocolate for 
chocolate drops. Or the maple fondant may be melted and used for the 
coating in the sam.e manner. Both the fondant used for the drops and that 
melted for the coating may be flavored and colored to sjiit. Nuts, fruits, 
etc., may be used the same as with chocolates above, so that even more com^ 
binations may be m.ade in bonbons than in chocolates and our number of 
different kinds is again more than doubled, giving a total of more than 10,000 
varieties of cream candies alone, should one desire to exercise his fancy to 
that extent. 

5. Wafers. — To make wafers, melt some white fondant as directed 
above in making bonbons, color and flavor to suit and drop upon waxed 
paper, making the wafers about the size of a quarter or a little larger. In 
dropping the melted fondant, a large funnel may be brought into service, 
using ^ small, round stick about a foot long as a stopper. Hold the funnel 
right side up, place the stick in so as to close the small end, fill the funnel 
with the melted fondant, then open and close the small end of the funnel 
with the stick, allowing a little of the fondant to drop each time upon the 
waxed paper. A little practice will be required to make the wafers of 
uniform size. 

6. Cream Dates. — Cut the date open lengthwise and take out the seed 
carefully. Refill with enough fondant so that the date cannot quite be closed 
again. Thus you allow a part of the fondant to show. Then roll in granu- 
lated stigap of dip each end in melted fondant colored to suit. (See fondant 
above.) 

7. Cream Grapes.— Clip Malaga grapes from the stem with scissors 
to prevent leaking of the juice. Dip in melted fondant colored to suit and you 
have something luscious. 



THE ART OF CANDY MAKING. 159 

8. Cocoanut Creams. — When creaming white fondant (fondant for this 
purpose should be cooked a little longer than that described above, or to a 
hard ball as in No. 4 of the table for testing) stir in some good shredded 
cocoanut. After kneading, cut into small squares or bars to suit and dip 
in melted chocolate. Cocoanut creams are very fine eating. 

9. Combination Cream.— Pour into a small cake pan some melted fon- 
dant of any desired color. (This fondant should be cooked to a hard ball as 
in No. 4 of testing table above.) When cool, pour on top of this more 
melted fondant of another color allowing each layer to oool before adding 
another. The layers, may be of any number, thickness and color desired. 
When all is cold, carefully take from the pan and cut into slices as you 
would cake. This makes a very attractive and a very rich candy. 

10. Orangettes. — Make the following fondant: Take 3 pounds granu- 
lated sugar, Ys teaspoonful cream of tartar and water enough to dissolve. 
Cook to a hard ball (No. 4 in testing table above), pour upon an ungreased 
marble or large platter. Add- the _grated yellow rind of two oranges and 
the juice of one and stir with spoon or paddle until creamed; knead with 
the hands until soft and creamy, roll into drops and dip into melted choco- 
late. Orangettes made from this recipe were awarded the prize in New 
York City. 

TAFFIES. 

In making candies a confectioner generally has a marble stone or slab or 
g cooling table made for the purpose upon which to pour the batch of 
candy when cooked. If these are not available a large platter will answer 
for domestic purposes. In making tafEes this should be well greased with 
butter to prevent sticking. In the pulling of taffies the confectioner uses 
a large iron hook, securely fastened to the wall; and for best results it will 
be found almost necessary in the making of home-made goods, for the candy 
can be pulled to much better advantage from a hook than in the hands and 
will be much more porous and light, which is much to be desired in taifies. 
A blacksmith will bend an iron to suit but if it is not convenient to have a 
hook made the candy may be pulled in the hands. Glucose is generally used 
in taffies instead of cream of tartar to prevent sugaHng. Pure glucose is made 
from grain and,is not injurious, as many people suppose. 

VANILLA, ORANGE, LEMON, PINEAPPLE, STRAWBERRY, 
WINTERGREEN, CINNAMON AND CLOVE TAFFIES.— These taffies 
are made the same, except that they are differently flavored and colored 
so we will treat them together. Take five pounds granulated sugar, one and 
one-half pounds of glucose, or if the glucose cannot be obtained use one 
level teaspoonful of cream tartar in its place. Add enough water to dissolve 
tl^e sugar. When it boils, cover and steam the vessel two or three minutes 
to soften any sugar on the sides and then remove all undissolved sugar 
with a damp cloth. Cook until, when tested in cold water, it will chew free 
and not stick to the teeth. This is the second crack as given in No. 6 of the 
table above for testing. Pour on greased marble or platter. If outer edges 
cool quickest turn them into center of platter that all may cool evenly, but 
be careful not to handle unnecessarily or it may go back to " sugar " and need 
to be recooked. As soon as it is cool enough to handle place on hook and 
pull. Any color or flavor may b^ added while on hook and thoroughly 
pulled in. Vanilla, orange, lemon, pineapple, strawberry, wintergreen, cinna- 



160 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

mon and clove are most commonly used in taffies. These eight or ten varie- 
ties may be obtained from the one cooking if desired. When the taffy is 
pulled light and full of air and is cool enough to be rather stiff, remove 
from hook, cut into convenient lengths and place in pans. 

VARIOUS CANDIES. 

1. Butterine Sticks. — Take five pounds of granulated sugar, one and 
one-half pounds of glucose and one quart of sweet cream. Cook until it 
forms a soft ball when tested in cold water as described in No. 3 of the table 
for testing. This must be stirred constantly or the cream will burn. When 
done remove from fire and rub hard against the sides of the kettle with a 
knife or paddle until it creams, then before it sets pour on greased marble 
or plates, allowing it to make a layer about half an inch thick. Before it 
becomes entirely cold cut into sticks about four inches long and three- 
fourths of. an inch in width. The writer is the originator of Butterines. 
They have had a great sale and will be found excellent. 

2. . Cream Caramels — Vanilla and Chocolate. — ^Take -^two quarts of 
heavy sweet cream, five pounds of granulated sugar and one-half pound of 
glucose. Stir constantly while cooking to the first crack that can be de- 
tected when tested in cold water. (No. 5 in testing table above.) Remove 
from fire and stir in one tablespoonful of vanilla ; pour on greased--marble or 
platter to a depth of half an inch. When cool cut into small squares. 

To make chocolate caramels add from one-fourth to one-half potind of 
grated chocolate shortly before taking from the stove, allowing only time for 
the chocolate to dissolve. Cook and treat as above. You will have to 
use great care to prevent scorching. These caramels will stand without 
wrapping. This recipe was obtained from a confectioner at the cost of five 
dollars and it makes one of thfe finest cream caramels manufactured. 

3. Candy Cough Drops. — Take two and one-half pounds of granulated 
sugar, one-fourth teaspoonful of cream tartar and enough water to dissolve. 
Cook to the dry crack or until it will break like glass when tested in cold 

, water. (See No. 7 in testing table before given.) After testing place a little 
in the mouth and if it will not stick to the teeth when chewed it is ready 
to take from the stove and pouraipon greased marble or platter. When on 
platter add one-half ounce powdered willow charcoal and one-fQurth tablespoon- 
ful of oil of anise, fold and knead thoroughly while as hot as can be handled. 
Then cut into small pieces or drops with shears. The batch must be handle^, 
rapidly or it will cool and harden before cut into convenient pieces. These 
are some of the best cough drops made and will last a long time. 

-4. Peanut Bar Candy. — Take five pounds of granulated sugar, one- 
fourth pound of glucose and water to dissolve. Cook to a soft ball when 
tested in cold water, or to No. 3 in testing table previously given. Now add 
raw shelled peanuts to make the batch quite thick. Stir and cook until the 
peanuts are thoroughly done and smoke rolls from the kettle. Pour oh 
greased marble or platter and when cool but not cold cut into bars with 
a large knife. The peanuts may be tested by dropping a few into cold water 
and biting in two with the teeth. They should be brown and well roasted. 
Do not forget to steam and wash the undissolved sugar from the sides of 
the vessel as elsewhere directed. Great care must be exercised for peanut 
candy very easily sugars and cannot be recooked like most candies. 

- 5. Cocoanut Bar Candy. — ^Take five pounds of light brown sugar^, ose- 



THE ART OF CANDY MAKING. 161 

half teaspoonful of cream of tartar and enough water to dissolve. Cook to soft 
ball, or No. 3 in testing table previously given. Now add one am. one-half 
pounds of shredded cocoanut, stir and cook to, first crack, or No. 5. Pour 
on greased marble or platter making a layer half an inch thick. As soon as 
cool enough cut into bars. 

PEOPLE'S RECIPES FOR HOME-MADE CANDIES. 

1. Butter Scotch. — Take three-fourths cup of molasses, one cup of 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of boiling water 
and one-half cup of butter. Boil until brittle when tried in cold water, turn 
into well buttered tjns and cut in squares. 

2. Cream Candy. — ^Take one cup of sweet cream, two cups of granu- 
lated sugar and as much cream of tartar as you can hold on the point of 
a knife. Do not stir while cooking. Cook thirty minutes,- take off and beat, 
add nuts and flavoring, work into a roll and slice. 

3. Peanut Brittle. — Put one cup of sugar into a frying pan and shake 
briskly over the fire until the sugar is melted. Then add a cup of chopped 
peanuts. Take care not to burn the peanuts. 

4. Cracker Jack. — Take two cups of sugar, one cup of molasses and 
two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Boil until it cracks when tested in cold water. 
Then take from the fire, add one-half teaspoonful of soda, beat briskly and 
pour over pop-corn and chopped peanuts. 

5. Prauline. — Take two pounds of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one cup of milk and one tablespoonful of vinegar; boil until it threads, 
flavor with vanilla, add two quarts of picked nuts and then beat until creamy 
and pour into pans. 

6. Molasses Taffy. — Two cups of sugar, one cup of molasses, one tea- 
spoonful of soda and one tablespoonful of vinegar; boil until brittle and pull. 

7. Sea Foam. — Cook two cups of light brown sugar, with enough water 
to cover it, until it will form a soft ball when dropped into cold water; then 
add two well beaten whites of eggs and beat constantly until it thickens; 
drop with a spoon upon greased paper and put half of an English walnut 
6n each piece and let stand Until it hardens. 

8. Chewing Taffy. — For two cups of sugar take one cup of water, when 
it is boiling add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, kt cook until it will harden jn water, add the flavoring and 
remove from the stove. Pull when it is cool enough. 

9. Marshmallows. — One box of Knox's No. 1 gelatine, sixteen table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, four cups of granulated sugar, twelve tablespoon- 
fuls of hot water, one-half teaspoonful of vanilla and a pinch of cream of 
tartar; put gelatine and water into a large crock and let stand while the 
sugar is cooking until it threads well ; then mix together and beat constantly 
for half an hour with a paddle. Line a pan with greased paper and sprinkle 
with powdered sugar, pour in marshmallow and' let stand one hour and 
then cut and dip in powdered sugar. 

10. January Thaws. — Three-fourths cup of milk or cream, two cups 
dark brown sugar, a lump of butter the size of an English walnut and one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Put sugar and cream into kettle, stir until sugar is 
dissolved and boil until a soft ball can be formed of a little that has been 
dropped into cold water and then add butter and vanilla and one-half cup 

2— H 



163 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

of nuts (walnuts preferred). Beat with a spoon until candy cracks as you 
beat it. Turn into a buttered dish and cut into squares; 

11. Macaroons. — One and one-half cups of cocoanut, whites of five eggs 
and one cup of pulverized sugar. Bake twenty minutes in a slow oven on 
unbuttered paper. When done turn onto buttered paper. 

13. Hickory Nut Kisses. — Three cups of fine granulated sugar, whites 
of eight eggs and one cup of hickory nut meats. Flavor with vanilla. Beat 
eggs until very stiff and dry. Beat sugar in lightly, adding a little at a time, 
Bake on buttered tins in rather slow oven. 

13. Kisses. — Five tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, whites of three 
eggs and essence of lemon to flavor! Mix well and drop with a teaspoon on 
a buttered paper placed in a pan. Sift powdered sugar over them and bake 
one-half hour in a slow oven. Whip eggs a long time after they are stiff to 
dry them. 

14. Maple Sugar Candy. — One cup of granulated sugar, one cup of 
maple sugar, one-half cup of sweet cream, one-half cup of water and a 
lump of butter the size of a hickory nut. Boil all together until the mixture 
will hold together when dropped into cold water. Take from fne fire and 
stir until it begins to thicken and then pour into a buttered dish. 

15. Maple Fudge. — One quart of maple syrup and one cup of sweet 
cream ; cook until it will form a hard ball when dropped into cold water. 
When cold, stir until it hardens. 

16. Butter Scotch. — Two cups of granulated sugar, one-fourth cup of 
vinegar and one tablespoonful of butter. Boil sugar and vinegar together 
until almost done and then add butter. Do not stir. Cook until crisp when 
cooled in water and pour into buttered pan to cool. 

17. Sugar Drops. — Moisten two cups of brown sugar with a little water 
and boil until it will form a ball when dropped into cold water. Have ready 
the white of an egg, beaten stiff and flavored with vanilla. Pour hot syrup 
into tgg and beat hard. Drop upon plates with a fork. 



PIES. 

No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes. 

As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies. 

— O. W. Holmes. 

"We've baked the pies you all like best 
And are willing now to stand the test; 
The proof of'the pudding is in the eating, 
And the pies we serve there is no beating" 



GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING PIES. 

In the baking of pies it takes much practice to become perfect. One may 
have the best recipes in the world and yet fail but the young housewife 
should not let this discourage her. 

The secret of pie-making is to use just as little water as possible and 
get the dough into shape, having everything very cold. Butter or lard for 
pastry should be fresh, sweet and solid. 

Use a cupful of lard and a teaspoonful of salt to a quart of flour. This 



PIES. 163 

quantity will make four crusts, either two pies with covers or four without. 
The lard should be worked thoroughly into the flour with the fingers before 
any water is added. Use only a little water and press the dough together 
hard, then put upon a board that has been well floured. Roll the dough one 
way only. In warm weather if you are not ready to bake the paste at once 
after making up, it should be kept on ice till wanted. It improves pastry 
to lie on ice two or three hours and it may be kept several days if necessary. 

The under crust should be a little thicker than the top. If a pie is made 
without an upper crust it is well to have a heavy edge. If tin pie pans are 
used the bottom crust will be better baked than if earthen pans are used. 
Before putting on the upper crust, wet the rim of the lower with water, or 
a thick paste of flour and water, or flour and egg; then press the two crusts 
well together and then loosen all from the pans. This will prevent the burst- 
ing of the pie. 

If it is a fruit pie a little flour should be dusted over the bottom; or, 
the juice will be prevented from soaking through by rubbing some well- 
beaten egg over the lower crust with a piece of cloth. To prevent the juice 
from running over, a level teaspoonful of cornstarch should be evenly sprink- 
led over the fruit before the upper crust is put on. 

Always make air holes in the top crust or the pie will burst. It is best 
not to wash the rolling pin but to scrape the dough off well and rub with 
a dry towel. Thus it will always be dry and will never stick if kept well 
floured. 

Always beat eggs separately. 

Some always grease the pie tins while others sprinkle them with flour. 
It is safest to grease them if the pie is to be removed from the^ pan before 
putting on the table. 

To keep pastry from scorching on the bottom sprinkle salt in the oven 
under the pie tin. 

A nice, flakey, pie dough may be made by lessening the amount of short- 
ening and adding a level teaspoonful of baking powder to a quart of flour. 

The time for cooking pies varies with the heat of the oven and the kind 
of pie. Where a rich lemon pie might bake in twenty minutes it probably 
would require from thirty to forty minutes to bake a green apple pie. 

Bake fruit pies in a moderate oven and if possible have a better heat at 
the bottom than at the top or the l6wer crust will be " raw." When done, 
the crust will separate from the pan and may be easily removed. It should 
be taken from the tin at once and slipped onto a porcelain plate if you would 
have the bottom crisp instead of soggy ; or, stand on a wire cake sieve to allow 
the air to circulate all around it. 

RECIPES FOR PIES. 
1. Delicious Apple Pie.— Pare and core 6 or 8 tart apples; boil 1 cup 
of sugar in % cup of water for 5 minutes; add a heaping teaspoonful of 
butter and 1 of almond extract; stir and lay in the apples; cover; bake until 
tender and set aside to cool. Line a deep pie tin with puff paste ; prick with 
a fork to keep from blistering and bake ; fill with the fruit ; spread over the 
top a meringue made of the whites of 2 eggs and 2 tablespoonfuls of shredded 
blanched almonds; dust with a tablespoonful of sugar; brown slightly in a 
cool oven and serve very cold. 

2. Buttermilk Pic— Make and bake your crust. Filling: two cups of 



164 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

buttermilk, yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, a little salt, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of lemon essence. Cook and cool 
as for lemon pie. 

3. Custard Pie. — One level teaspoonful of flour sifted in 1 cup of sugar ; 
add 3 eggs; beat together and add milk to fill pie tins brim full; grate a 
little nutmeg on top and add a few tiny lumps of butter ; bake slowly until 
by testing the center of the pie with a knife it is found to have thickened. 

4. Cornstarch Pie. — Take 1 quart of milk and heat to boiling; add 
y% cup of /sugar, the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs, and 3 tablespoonfuls of 
cornstarch dissolved in cold milk ; let boil a few minutes ; remove from fire ; 
have crust baked; then pour in custard. Beat whites of eggs; add a4ittle 
sugar; "spread on tops of pies and return to oven to brown. This is enough 
for 2 pies. 

6. Chocolate Pie. — One and one-half cups of bread crumbs, 3 ^^'g'i 
(save the whites for the tops), ^^ cup of granulated sugar, 3 strips of choco- 
late, 3 pints of milk ; put the crumbs in the milk ; when hot put in the beaten 
eggs and chocolate and sugar (thinned with a little milk), and let boil until 
thick; bake crusts and fill. Enough for 3 large pies. 

6. Chocolate Cream Pie. — Bake a shell of pie crust; have ready a fill- 
ing made as follows: One-half cup of sugar, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 square 
of Baker's chocolate, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 scant pint of milk, butter 
the size of a walnut ; cook them all together and fill crust ;"■ beat whites of 
eggs and, after spreading on top of pie, sprinkle on sugar and set in oven 
to brown slightly. 

t. Mock Cherry Pie. — One-half cup chopped raisins, 1 teacup cran- 
berries, 1 teacup sugar, % cup boiling water, 1 tablespoonful of flour; cook 
for 10 minutes ; flavor v/ith vanilla ; put flour in after it is cooked. 

8. Cocoanut Pie. — Whip 2 eggs into % cup of sugar and mix with 1 
tablespoonful of butter, 1 cup grated cocoanut, and pour over it 1 pint of 
milk brought to the boiling point ; line a pie plate with pastry crust, leaving 
high rim ; bake in moderate oven. 

9. Cream Pie. — One cup of water, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of corn- 
starch, % cup sugar, 1 heaping teaspoonful of butter, a pinch of salt, flavor 
with vanilla; when the water is boiling stir in the cornstarch, the beaten 
yolks of eggs, with sugar; stir in the butter and let cool; add flavor. Bake 
crust before filling; beat the whites of eggs with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar for 
top and put in oven and brown. 

10. Elderberry Pie. — Five tablespoonfuls elderberries, 3 tablespoonfuls 
sugar, 5 tablespoonfuls molasses, 3 tablespoonfuls cider vinegar, 1 table- 
spoonful flour sprinkled on top. Bake in 2 crusts. 

11. Lemon Pie. — The juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoonful 
of butter, 1 cup of sugar beaten to ^a cream, 2 tablespoonfuls sweet milk, 

4 eggs; mix all together and pour into a crust-lined plate and bake; when 
done, beat the whites of 3 eggs with 3 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; 
spread it over pie and brown in oven. 

12. Molasses Pie. — One and one-half cups of maple syrup, 1 cup of 
sugar, yolks of 4 eggs, butter the size of an egg, 1 nutmeg; bake in 1 crust; 
remove from oven and coVer with the whites of the eggs, beaten with 4 
tablespoonfuls of sugar ; place in oven and brown. This will make 3 pies. 

13. Mince Meat. — Cook 5 or 6 pounds of beef until tender (let-boM 
until nearly dry), chop very fine; at the same time mince 3 pounds beef suet. 



PIES. • 165 

4 pounds currants, 4 pounds raisins, 1 pound citron. Chop fine 4 quarts good, 
tart, cooking apples ; put all in a large pan together ; add 2 ounces of cinna- 
mon, 1 ounce ginger, 1 ounce cloves, 4 nutmegs, the grated rind and juice 
of 2 lemons, 1 tablespoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful pepper, and 2 pounds sugar; 
put in a kettle 1 quart boiled cider or 1 quart grape juice, 1 quart of mo- 
lasses, a lump of butter; let it come to boiling point and pour over contents 
in pan; mix thoroughly and pack in jars. 

14. Mock Mince Pie. — Two-thirds cup of vinegar, 1 cup of molasses, % 
cup of water, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of bread crumbs, 1 cup of chopped raisins, 

1 teaspoonful of cloves, 1 teaspoonful of cinnamon, butter size of an tgg, 
nutmeg; cook a few minutes, stirring well. This is enough for 3 pies. 

15. Pumpkin Pie. — One cup of sifted pumpkin, 1 tablespoonful flour, 
a pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful ginger, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, % cup of 
sugar, 1 beaten egg ; mix well together and pour over 2 cups rich milk ; fill 
deep pie tin and set in oven at once. It is done when it rises well in the middle. 
The pumpkin should be washed and cut in cubes and cooked without paring ; 
when tender sift and return to back part of stove and cook until dry and 
sweet. This makes one pie. 

16. Rhubarb Pie. — Pour boiling water over 2 teacups of chopped rhu- 
barb ; let it stand 5 minutes and then drain ; mix with the rhubarb 1 teacup 
of sugar, the yolk of one egg, a piece of butter and a tablespoonful of flour, 
moistening the whole with 3 tablespoonfuls of water; bake with 1 crust; 
make meringue 'of the white of the egg with 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar; 
spread over the top of the pie and brown. 

IT". Squash Pie. — One large cup of steamed and strained squash, % cup 
of sugkr, % teaspoonful of cinnamon, i^ teaspoonful of salt, l^ teaspoonful of 
lemon extract, ^4 teaspoonful ginger, 1 cup of milk, 2 eggs; bake in one 
crust. 

18. Transparent Pie.^ — One cup of butter, 1 cup of brown sugar, yolks 
of 3 eggs, all well beaten together ; bake with 1 crust. 

19. Vinegar Pie. — One cup of water, 1 cup of sugar, piece of butter size 
of an egg, % cup of flotir, 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, pinch of salt, a little 
nutmeg; stir all together and/ boil; when it becomes thick, pour it into a 
crust which should be previously baked. 

20. Pie Crust. — One cup lard, 3 cups flour, a little salt; mix with ice 
cold water, into a soft dough ; handle as little as possible. 

21. Lemon Cream Pie. — One cup sugar, 1 raw potato grated, 1 cup of 
water, the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon; bake in pastry top and bottom; 
this will make 1 pie. 

22. Shoo-Fly. — Make regular pie crust and fill as follows: 2 cups 
boiling water, 1 cup syrup and 2 teaspoonfuls baking soda and crumbs ; pour 
the boiling water over the syrup and add the soda. Directions for making 
the crumbs : One cup of lard, 3 cups of flour, 1% cups of sugar ; same to be 
used in place of the top crust. 

23. Pie Dough. — Four cups of flour, a little salt, enough lard to make 
flour stick together when pressed. Work for about 20 minutes. Then add 
just-enough water to make it hold together. 

24. Pie Plant Pie. — Cut up enough pie plant to fill 6 cups and" chop fine ; 
add 3 cups of sugar, 3 heaping tablespoonfuls of flour, 3 eggs. Bake with 

2 crusts. This is enough for 4 "pies. 

25. Raisin Pie. — One fup finely chopped raisins, 1 cup water, 1 cup 



166 THE PEOPLE'S. HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

brown sugar, 1 tablespoonful flour. Boil together until it thickens. Bake 
between 2 good light crusts. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 

_To make a perfect salad, there should be a spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, 
a wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir the ingredients up and mix well together. 

— Spanish Proverb. 

1. Banana Salad. — Slice bananas; arrange on lettuce leaves; add a few 
nuts and the dressing. Oranges sliced very thin, in the proportion of 1 
©range to 3 or 4 bananas, may be added if preferred. Salad dressing: One 
teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful Colman's mustard, 1 tablespoonful butter,. 2 
teaspoonfuls sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls cream, 1 teaspoonful cornstarch, yolks 
of 4 eggs, 1 scant teacup vinegar. Mix and stir in double boiler over fire 
until it begins to thicken ; strain. When used, thin with % cup cream, 
whipped. If cream is omitted this may be kept in a cool place for some time. 

2. String Bean Salad. — One cup cold boiled string beans, cut in smaJl 
pieces; 3 hard boiled eggs cut in rings; 3 beets boiled and sliced; 1 head of 
lettuce, chopped. Put lettuce leaves on plate; then salad; cover with mayon- 
naise dressing. 

3. Cherry Salad. — Take some white California cherries and remove 
the pits, replace with a blanched filbert or hazelnut. Serve on a lettuce leaf 
with a spoonful of salad dressing, to which a plentiful supply of whipped 
cream has been added. 

4. Cheese Salad. — For this salad use three hard-boiled eggs, 1% cups 
of cheese, grated fine; 1 teaspoonful of mustard, 1/10 of a teaspoonful of 
cayenne, % teaspoonful of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of- salad oil or melted butter, 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar and a- cup of cold chicken chopped rather coarse. 
Rub yolks of eggs until a smooth paste i's formied; gradually add the oil, 
stirring all the while with a silver fork; then add all the seasoning. Mix 
the cheese and chicken lightly with this dressing and heap the mixture on a 
pretty dish; garnish with the whites of the eggs cut in circles, and a few 
white celery leaves or sprig of parsley. Serve with water crackers, cold 
or toasted. 

5. Corn Salad. — Four red peppers, 12 good ears of corn, 2 quarts of 
vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, 1/4 pound of ground mustard, 1 cup sugar. 
Chop 1 head of cabbage and let it drain; chop peppers and cut off corn and 
mix. Boil all together for 20 minutes. 

6. Fruit Salad. — One dozen oranges, 1 dozen bananas, % dozen good 
apples, 1 pound Sultana raisins, 1 bunch celery, 1 pound pecans and English 
walnuts mixed, a few chopped pickles. Pour over fresh mayonnaise dressing. 

?'. Mixed Summer Salad. — Two teaspoonfuls of ground mustard leaves, 

3 heads of lettuce, a handful of watercress, 5 tender radishes, 1 cucumber, 
3 hard-boiled eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls white sugar, 1 teaspoonful each of salt, 
pepper and mustard; 1 teacupful vinegar, % teacupful oil. Mix all together 
and serve with a lump of ice in the middle. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 167 

8. Sweetbread Salad. — ^Two pairs of sweetbreads, dropped in boiling 
salt water and cooked from 20 to 30 minutes, then plunged in very cold water 
for a few minutes. Take equal quantity of celery and 1 tablespoonful of 
chopped almonds. In cucumber season, use them in place of the celery; 
it is tine. 

9. Sardine Salad. — Lay a sardine on a lettuce leaf, and squeeze 3 drops 
of lemon juice on each fish. Pour over it a spoonful of thick dressing. Gar- 
nish with cold beets cut in star shape. 

10. Cream Dressing. — Mix together thoroughly, ^ tablespoonful mus- 
tard and salt, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful flour, 2 eggs, 2i/^ 
tablespoonfuls melted butter, % cup of cream. Then add slowly % cup vine- 
gar. Cook in double boiler until it thickens. 

11. Cabbage Salad Dressing. — Six tablespoonfuls cream, 2 raw eggs 
well beaten, % teaspoonful salt, 6 teaspoonfuls vinegar, a s|nall piece of butter ; 
put on fire and cook, stirring until quite thick; have a haH head of cabbage 
chopped fine; sprinkle with salt; add the dressing when cold; 2 tablespoon- 
fuls cream. Pour this mixture over cabbage. 

12. Dressing for Yellow Pickles. — One gallon vinegar, ^^ pound brown 
sugar, 1 ounce celery seed, 1 ounce tumeric, 1 cup flour. Put all the vinegar 
except 1 quart on the stove; add sugar and celery seed; mix mustard tu- 
meric and flour with the quart of vinegar ; let boil until it thickens ; pour over 
the pickles while hot and seal. Scald the pickles in weak vinegar and drain. 
Use anything that makes good pickles — small onions, cucumbers, cauliflower, 
sweet pepper^ or tomatoes, cut in small pieces. This is very nice for chopped 
pickles. 

13. Salad Dressing. — -JFive whole eggs or yolks of 12; beat well. One 
and one-half cups of vinegar, 1 cup melted butter, l^ cup sugar, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls mustard. Pour in sauce pan and stir until it boils; take off fire and 
add 2 teaspoonfuls celery seed and 2 teaspoonfuls salt. This makes a large 
quantity and should be thinned with cream when used. 

14. Stuffed Tomato Salad. — Peel 6 smooth tomatoes, remove thin slice 
from the top of each and take out seeds and pulp. Sprinkle inside with salt, 
invert and let stand for awhile in a cool place. Drain seeds and pulp, mix 
with 14 of a cucumber and saveral stalks of celery chopped. Fill tomatoes 
and put a spoonful of mayonnaise dressing on each one and place on a lettuce 
leaf. 

15. Slaw. — To a cabbage head put to boil % cup of milk, l/^ cup of vine- 
gar and water mixed, and beat up 2 eggs. Boil milk, vinegar and water 
together; add a small lump of butter and put the eggs in with the contents'. 
Add a little flour to thicken and also sugar to suit the taste. Salt the cab- 
bage and add the other when cool. This should be boiled. 

16. Cold Slaw. — One small, solid head of cabbage chopped fine. Take 
1 egg, 14 cup of vinegar, % teaspoonful salt, l^ teaspoonful mustard. Mix 
egg, salt and mustard with vinegar. Cook and pour over cabbage. 

17. Beet Salad, — One can beets, 1 small bunch of celery, 1 pound Eng- 
lish walnuts. Season with pepper and salt. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. 

18. Apple Salad. — Six apples, 1 bunch of celery. Chop all together, 
then add 1 cup English walnuts chopped fine; pour mayonnaise dressing oyer 
and serve. 



168 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

19. Endive Salad.— Clean and wash the endive, cut up in pieces Mi-inch 
long; to 2 cups of endive have about 4 cups of cold boiled potatoes cut in 
small pieces ; take 2 slices of bacon cut in small pieces, fry brown and crisp ; 
to this add a scant cup of vinegar diluted with water; pour this while warm 
over the salad ; mix well ; pepper arid salt to taste, and a little sugar if preferred. 

20. Green Bean Salad. — Two quarts of green beans, break into small 
pieces and cook two hours in boiling" salt water ; drain and cool ; add 1 
large cucumber and 1 onion chopped fine; cover with salad dressing, 

21. Heavenly Hash (or Fruit Salad). — Slice three oranges, 3 bananas; 
flake half of pineapple, place in layers, sprinkle sugar over each layer, squeeze 
the juice of one lemon over all, put on ice 3 hours. Grated cocoanut may be 
^dded if desired. 

22. Tpmato Jelly. — Soak % box of gelatine in % cup of cold water; cook 
a can of tomatoes, a stalk of celery, half an onion, a bay leaf, 2 cloves, a 
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of red pepper ten minutes. Add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar and gelatine. Stir until dissolved; strain and turn into 1 
large mold or several small ones; when jellied cut in squares, lay each on 
crisp lettuce leaf, put on a spoonful of salad dressing atid serve. 

23. Nut Salad. — Four hard-boiled eggs, 1 pound English walnuts, 1 
bunch of celery chopped very fine; mix with any desired salad dressing. 

24. Meat Salad. — Two pounds of meat, 1 pound of pork; boil them to- 
gether, chop fine; 1 onion, 1 bunch of celery, 2 eggs, lump of butter, 1 cup 
of vinegar; put on to boil until it gets thick; when cold mix with meat. 

25. Chicken Salad. — One large chicken boiled whole; when thoroughly 
cold cut into dice; cut into dice also the white part of heads of celery; mix 
chicken and celery together, then stir well into them a mixture in the pro- 
portion of 3 tablespoOnfuls of vinegar to 1 of oil, with salt and pepper to 
taste; set in a cold place for air hour or so; just before. serving mix with 
a mayonnaise sauce. , 

26. Cold Slaw Dressing. — Two eggs well beaten, V^ teaspoonful melted 
butter, Yz teaspoonful salt; beat well together and add 6 tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar and 3 tablespoonfuls of cream ; put in a pan of boiling water and cook 
until thick. 

27. Mustard Dressing. — One tablespoonful of Coleman's mustard, 1 egg, 
1 tablespoonful of cornstarch, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 tablespoonful salt, 
a little pepper, 1 teaspoonful celery seed, 1 pint vinegar; mix all together, 
cook in double boiler until thick. Will keep a long time if the air is ex- 
cluded. 

28. Cheese Salad Dressing. — Two tablespoonfuls of soft, grated cheese 
pounded until smooth; season with a little cayenne and a teaspoonful of 
salt; add 1 tablespoonful vinegar and rub till smooth; then add enough oil 
to moisten. 

29. Mayonnaise. — Mix 1 teaspoonful of salt with 1 teaspoonful of made 
mustard, 1/4 teaspoonful pepper and % teaspoonful celery seed ; add to 1 cup 
vinegar, % cup sugar, 3 beaten eggs ; stir constantly until it boils. 

30. German Potato Salad. — Boil 6 large potatoes," peel and slice while 
hot, and pour over the following: Cut ll^ pounds of lean bacon in small 
dice and fry brown. Season potatoes with salt, pepper and finely sliced onion ; 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS. 169 

mix thoroughly with the bacon fat and dice, and then add 1/2 cup vinegai'; 
garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs. 

31. Macaroni and Tomatoes. — One cup grated cheese, 1 quart tomatoes, 
1 cup macaroni cooked in salt water until ddtie; then add tomatoes and 
cheese with salt, pepper, sugar and butter. 

32. Waldo Salad. — One pint each of celery and apples cut in dice, % 
pint of English walnuts, 14 pound of white grapes, mix together and when 
ready to serve cover with mayonnaise dressing. 

33. Salmon Dressing.. — One can of salmon, drained; juice of 2 lemons 
(or vinegar), 1 teaspoonful of mustard, yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs; mix 
yolks of eggs with the mustard, add to salmon and then add lemon juice 
or vinegar. 

M. Baked Cork— Three eggs, % pint of milk, 1 tablespoonful melted 
butter, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 can corn ; beat whites and yolks of eggs sepa- 
rately; put corn and yolks together; stir hard and add the butter, then the 
milk gradually, beating all the while ; next the sugar and a little salt ; lastly, 
whites of eggs. Bake slowly at first, covering the dish ; remove and brown 
nicely. 

35. Sour Potatoes. — Slice potatoes as for frying; cook in as little water 
as possible ; when soft season with pepper and salt. Beat 1 egg, add about 
% cup of vinegar, stir into potatoes, let boil a few minutes; more vinegar 
may be added if desired. 

36. Potato Salad. — Boil 6 good sized potatoes and cut into pieces the 
size of a chestnut; add 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, a small onion 
chopped fine and season with ^^ teaspoonful each of celery seed, salt and 
mustar^, then add the following dressing : Two eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 
Yz teacup vinegar, % teacup water; boil till thick ^ 

37. Waldorf Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing. — Cut in small pieces 4 
fair-sized apples and about 3 stalks of celery and pour over them the juice 
of 1 lemon ; then ^dd the mayonnaise, mixing it in well. If you wish, add 
some English walnuts chopped into small pieces. 

Mayonnaise. — Three-fourths , tablespoonful vinegar, yolk of one egg, % 
teaspoonful salt, 14 teaspoonful mustard, i/4 teaspoonful sugar, about % of a 
small bottle of olive oil; stir everything together but the olive oil and then 
drop that in slowly, stirring all the time, 

38. Mayonnaise Dressing. — Beat together the yolks of 2 eggs and all the 
sugar they will take ; add ^4 teaspoonful each of pepper, salt, celery seed and 
ground mustard; add good % cup of vinegar and cook, stirring constantly; 
add a lump of butter about half the size of an egg. The longer you stir it 
the better it will be. 

39. Salad Dressing. — One beaten egg, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, Y^ tea- 
spoonful salt, 1 cup vinegar, ^ teaspoonful mustard, pepper to taste. Boil 
this and stir into creamed milk and butter. Pour over potatoes cold. 

40. Cream Dressing. — One teaspoonful mustard, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 
tablespoonfuls flour, li^ teaspoonfuls powdered sugar, a little pepper, 1 tea- 
spoonful melted butter, yolk of 1 egg, % cup hot vinegar, V^ cup heavy cream ; 
mix the dry ingredients, add butter and yolk, slightly beaten; add vinegar 
slowly. Cook over hot water, stirring until thickened. Add this to the 
cream beaten until stiff. 



170 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 

"The proof .of the pudding is in the eating." 

PUDDINGS. 

Each ingredient used in making a pudding should be of the best quality. 
The milk should be strictly fresh and the suet perfectly sweet. Dried cur- 
rants should be washed carefully and dried in a napkin. The stems and dirt 
should be removed by rubbing in a coarse towel after which the currants 
should be seeded. Spices must be finely pounded and only the outside rind 
of oranges and lemons should be lightly grated off. 

For puddings, eggs should always be beaten separately, the yolks strained 
and the whites added last. Boiled milk should be allowed to cool before the 
eggs are added and if fruit is used it should be added last. Puddings are 
either boiled, baked or steamed. Add a pinch of salt to all puddings and bake 
them as soon as mixed. Batter and cornstarch puddings require a rather quick 
oven while bread, rice, custard and fruit puddings should have a moderate 
heat. 

Boiled puddings will be lighter if boiled in a cloth with full room to 
swell but some use a mold or bowl with a cloth tied over it. The bag should 
be wrung out of hot water and well floured on the inside. As a rule boiled 
puddings require twice as long for cooking *s those that are baked. Steamed 
puddings are likely to be lighter and more wholesome than those that are 
boiled or baked Put over cold water and do not remove cover while steaming. 

1. Peach or Apple Pudding. — Fill a buttered baking dish with sliced 
apples or peaches and pour over the top a batter made of 1 tablespoonful 
of butter, 1 egg, V^ cup of sugar, i,^ cup of sweet milk, 1 cup of flour and 
1 teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in a moderate oven until brown. 
Serve with cream and sugar. 

2. Apple Dicky. — A lump of butter the size of an egg, 1 cup of sugar, 
3 cups of flour, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, V^ cup of water, 1 egg, a 
pinch of salt ; put sliced apples in a baking dish, pour the batter over them 
and bake. 

3. Black Pudding. — To one well beaten egg add 1 cup of molasses, 
1 cup of water, 1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water, 1 cup of flour. 
Do not stir. Add y% cup raisins, % cup currants ; stir in flour, raisins and 
currants; lastly, add 1 pint of bread crumbs. Beat all well together and 
steam three hours. 

4. Brown Pudding. — One cup of buttermilk, % cups of bread crumbs 
(graham, white or mixed), 1 teaspoonful of soda. Dissolve soda in milk, 
let stand until soft. One ^%%, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 
y^ cup butter, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup flour ; pour in buttered pan and steam two 
hours. Good with cream and sauce. Can be steamed over and be as good as 
fresh. 

5. Bread and Butter Pudding. — Lay 6 slices of well buttered bread 
in -a pudding dish greased with butter and stew with seeded raisins; next 
beat 3 eggs with 1 cup of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla crystals, and stir 
in 1 quart of milk and fill dish. Bake one-half hour in quick oven. 

6. Bird's Nest Pudding. — Stew one pint of apples but do not allow 
them to cook to pieces ; sweeten to taste, having them well covered with 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 171 

Juice. Take one cup ©f sweet milk and stir into it enough flour to make a 
thick batter, adding to the flour 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, a little salt 
and sugar. Then drop the batter into the boiling sauce and either steam 
on the stove or bake in the oven. When done grate over with nutmeg and 
serve while hot with cream. Peaches, strawberries, blackberries, raspberries, 
etc., in season, woric equally as well as apples. 

7. Cocoanut and Tapioca Pudding. — One cup of tapioca soaked over 
night, 1 quart of milk, 1 cup of sugar, yolks of 3 eggs, whites of 2, 2 table-' 
spoonfuls of grated cocoanut; bake half an hour. Use for a frosting the 
beaten white of one egg, sweetened, with a tablespoonful of cocoanut; brown 
in oven. 

8. Steamed Chocolate Pudding. — One cup granulated sugar, yolks of 
3 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls sweet milk, 1 ounce melted chocolate, 1 cup flour, 
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. To the beaten yolks add sugar and beat until 
light. Beat whites until very light and mix with baking powder and flour, 
then add quickly to the other mixture. Put a large spoonful in greased cups 
and steam half an hour. Sauce : One cup sugar, l^ cup of butter, beat to a 
cream ; add 1 teaspoonful vanilla and-% cup of milk ; stir constantly over hot 
water, cooking until smooth and creamy. 

9. Baked Indian Pudding with Hard Sauce. — Stir 6 tablespoonfuls of 
cornmeal into 1 quart of scalded milk, let it cool just a little. Set aside to 
cool, then add l^ cup of sugar, 2 eggs well beaten, Yz teaspoonful of salt, 1 
tablespoonful butter, dust of cinnamon. Bake slowly one hour. Sauce: 
Stir to a cream a full cup of sugar and scant % cup of butter and juice of one 
lemon. 

10. Fig Pudding. — Two large cups of grated bread crumbs, 1 pound of 
chopped figs, 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 6 tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, 4 eggs, 2 cups of milk. Butter a pan and sprinkle with bread crumbs. 
Steam 4 hours. Eat hot with whipped cream or good sauce. 

11. French Pudding. — Cut enough thin slices of bread to fill a quart 
dish half full, buttering each piece lightly before cutting ; lay them loosely 
in the dish and sprinkle over them % cup of sugar and a little grated nutmeg. 
Heat 1 quart of milk, beat the yolks of 4 eggs, add to milk just before boiling 
and immediately pour over bread. Beat the whites, add a little sugar and 
spread over the pudding. Set in the oven a few minutes to brown slightly 
and it is ready for the table. Serve with cream. 

12. Fruit Dowdy. — Oae heaping tablespoonful of butter, 3 large (mix- 
ing) spoonfuls of flour, salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, milk to wet 
stiff enough to roll. Put any kind of cooked fruit in a basin and the dough 
over it and bake in a quick oven. 

13. Fruit Pudding. — Two well beaten eggs, 1 cup each of butter, sugar, 
molasses and sour milk in which dissolve 1 teaspoonful of soda, % nutmeg 
grated, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, % teaspoonfut cloves, 1 pound each of raisins 
and currants, flour to stir stifif ; bake slowly and when wanted slice and steam 
und serve with the following sauce: One cup sugar, 1 egg, V2 cup butter, 
scant tablespoonful cornstarch, 1 cup water; cook in double boiler, remove 
from fire, flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

14. Lemon Pudding. — ^Two cups of bread, grated or chopped very fine 
after removing all the crusts ; grated rind of 1 lemon, yolks of 4 eggs, % cup 
of sugar, 1 quart of milk ; bake about 20 minutes or half an hour in a g^od 



m THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

oven. When done spread whites of 4 eggs, well beaten with y2 cup of sugar 
and juice of lemon, over the top. Place in the oven and brown lightly. 

15. English Plum PqjJding.-^One-half pound currants, 1^^ pounds 
«tiisins, % pound mixed peekor citron, %, pound bread crumbs, % pound of 
suet, 8 eggs, 1 wine-glassfuf brandy. Stone and cut raisins in halves. Wash 
and dry the currants. Mince suet fine; cut candied peel into thin slices and 
grate bread into fine crumbs. When all these are prepared mix them well 
together and moisten the mixture with the eggs well beaten and the brandy, 
and put the pudding into a floured cloth and boil 5 or 6 hours. When done 
hang up to drain. The day it is to be eaten put into boiling water and boil 
2 hours, then turn it out of the cloth and serve with any kitfd of sauce you 
may prefer. 

16. Simple Plum Pudding. — One cup milk, 1 cup suet chopped fine, Vz 
cup currants, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup Orleans molasses, l^.cups flour, 1 table- 
spoonful citron cut fine, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful ginger, 14 teaspoon- 
ful cloves. Heat the milk and suet together slowly but do not boil. Strain 
through a sieve to take out lumps. Then add molasses and flour and soda, dis- 
solved in a little hot water; lastly, the spices and fruit, cutting the raisins in 
two and flouring them ; add a pinch of salt. Put buttered paper in bottom of 
the pudding dish and steam the pudding 4 hours. Foam Sauce for Plum 
Pudding : One cup powdered sugar, 2 eggs, % cup boiling milk. Beat 
whites and yolks separately. Add sugar to yolks and work it in, then pour 
on the boiling milk. Set it in very hot (but not boiling) water, stirring now 
and then until wanted; then beat in lightly the frothed whites and flavor 
with vanilla, nutmeg or bitter almond. 

17. Prune Pudding. — Soak one pound of prunes over night, cook soft, 
remove seeds and whip smooth while hot; 1 cup pulverized sugar. Beat the 
whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth, add to the prunes, put in a pudding dish and 
brown in the oven. Serve with cream when cold. 

18. Quick Puff Pudding. — Stir one pint of flour, a little salt and 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder into milk until very soft. Place cups well" greased 
with butter in a steamer, put into each cup a small tablespoonful of batter, 
then berries or other fruit, then another spoonful of batter; cover and steam 
20 minutes. Serve with cream or pudding sauce. 

19. Rice Pudding. — One quart creamy milk, 1 cup rice, 4 eggs, 1 table- 
spoonful butter, one cup of sugar and a pinch of salt. Boil rice in one pint 
of milk until tender; remove; add eggs, sugar, milk and salt, Pour into 
pudding dish; add butter in broken pieces on top. Bake in steady oven 
for half an hour. Serve with simple dressing. 

20. Sponge Pudding. — One cup of sugar, 1 small teaspoonful of butter, 
yolk of 1 egg, 1 cup of milk, 3 cups of flour, 3 even teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Steam 1 hour. Sauce : One-half cup of butter, yolk of one egg, 1 
cup of sugar. Mix well, cook and' then add the beaten white of the egg and 
flavor. 

21. Suet Pudding. — One-half cup of sugar, 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup soui 
milk, 1 cup suet, 1 cup raisins, 3 cups of flour, 14 teaspoonful of soda and salt, 
1 nutmeg, and cinnamon. Steam for 3 hours and serve with dip. 

22. Cherry Puffs. — Five teaspoonfuls baking powder, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 
cup flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of butter, % cup of milk, 1 cup of canned cherries. (All 
measurements level.) Mix the dry ingredients ; put in the butter ; add the milk 
and, when well mixed, the cherries. Steam in buttered molds for 45 minutes. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 173 

Serve with foamy sauce. Foamy Sauce : — Cream % cup of butter ; add ^ cup 
of powdered sugar; mix well; add 3 tablespoonfuls of cream and 1 table- 
spoonful of vanilla. 

23. Strawberry Shortcake. — Two cups of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, % cup of milk, y^ cup of butter, 1 egg. 

24. Vegetable" Pudding. — One cup of grated potatoes, 1 cup of grated 
carrots, 1 cup of brown sugar, 1 cup of chopped suet, 1 cup of flour (after 
sifting), % teaspoonful of soda in 1 tablespoonful of water, ^ teaspoonful 
of salt, 1 cup of chopped currants, 1 cup of chopped raisins, allspice to taste. 
Steam for 3 or 4 hours. 

25. Crystallized Apples. — Boil 1 cup of sugar in 2 cups of water for 
5 minutes. Pare and core as many apples as desired and place in pan without 
crowding ; cook tjU tender ; lift out carefully and put in baking pan. Sprinkle 
well with sugar and brown slightly in moderate oven. Boil down the syrup 
to about a cupful; pour around but not on the apples.- When cool place in 
a glass dish with a little~currant jelly on each apple. 

26. Cherry Pudding. — One cup sour milk, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 egg, 1 cup seeded cherries, flour enough to make a stiff batter; place 
in cloth, allowing room for raising; steam 40 minutes. 

27. Currant Pudding. — One-half pound raisins, 1 pound currants, l/^ 
pound of finely chopped suet, 2 cups of sugar, 2 eggs, 1 nutmeg, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of cinnamon, 2 teaispoonfuls of baking powder, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 cup 
milk, 1 cup water. Mix together and boil for 5 hours. Serve with cream 
or dip. 

28. Chocolate Pudding. — One ctip of bread crumbs, 1 pint of milk ; put 
this in a double boiler and scald ; yolks of 2 eggs, Yz cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla and 1% teaspoonfuls of cocoa or chocdiate. Add the milk and bread 
crumbs to this and bake for 5 or 10 minutes. When done spread beaten 
whites of 2 €ggs and brown. To be eaten with whipped cream. 

29. Rice Pudding. — ^Three tablespoonfuls of rice, Y^ cup sugar, 1 quart 
of milk; bake slowly 2 hours. 

30. Cheap Pudding. — One quart of flour, 1 cup chopped suet, 1^ tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder ; rub flour and suet together ; ^ pound raisins, a 
pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of ground 
cloves, 1 cup sugar. Mix with water or milk and steam 2 hours. 

31.^ Cottage Pudding.— One cup milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, lump of butter 
the size of an egg, 1 pint of flour, a pinch of salt, 1 heaping teaspoonful baking 
jiowder. Sauce : — One egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful flour, small piece of 
butter ; mix and add boiling water ; let come to boil ; flavor with vanilla. 

32. Brown Betty. — Soak old or hard bread and line baking dish with 
these crumbs. Then put in a layer of apples sliced very thin over which 
sprinkle sugar and add little bits of butter; make alternate layers of crumbs 
and apples till dish is full, having the last layer di crumbs. Sprinkle this 
well with sugar and bits of butter and cinnamon ; add % cup water and bake 
half an hour. To be eaten with sweetened cream. 

33. Lemon Rice Pudding. — One quart of milk, 1 cup rice, yolks of 2 
eggs, pinch of salt ; cook in slow oven until j-ice is soft. Beat the whites of 
2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon; put on top and 
return to the oven to brown. 



174 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

34. Date Pudding.— ^Cream a lump of butter the size of an egg with 
1 cup of sugar. To this add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, % cup of milk and 
the whites pi 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; also ZYz scant cups of flour and 
1 large teaspoonful of baking powder ; then add dates or other fruit. Sa^ce : 
One egg, 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful of flour; boil and then add 
extract. 

35. Cup Pudding, — For the batter use 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, li/^ cups of 
flour, y2 cup of milk, butter size of walnut, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Fill cups half full of berries or any kind of fresh fruit ; place sufficient sugar 
over the fruit and a spoonful of batter over all; steam 30 minutes. Serve 
with a sauce, 

36. Orange Puddiiig. — Peel 4 large oranges and take out all seeds and 
white. Cut in small pieces. After covering with sugar, let stand 2 hours ; 
then take 1 pint of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, yolk of 1 egg, 1 cup 
sugar; cook in double boiler until thick; pour over oranges and stir all 
together. Beat white of egg, add a small amount of sugar and cover pud- 
ding. Brown in oven. 

37. Quick Apple Dumplings. — Pare and cut into small pieces 6 quick 
cooking apples ; lay these in a deep baking dish or pan ; sprinkle sugar over 
them. Make a batter of 3 cups of flour in which 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder have been sifted, and a pinch of salt; add enough water to make a 
very stiff batter, spread this over the apples and steam 30 minutes?" To be 
eaten with sweetened milk or cream. 

38. Snow Pudding. — Over Yz box of gelatine pour 1 pint of boiling 
water; add the juice of 1 lemon and 1^ cups of sugar; when nearly cold, 
stir in the whites of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Serve with boiled custard. 

39. Fruit Roll. — One egg, ^ cup sugar, 1% to 2 cups of milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, 4 cups sifted flour, 4 teaspoonfuls of Rumford Baking Pow- 
der, 1 cup cleaned currants or chopped raisins. Sift flour, salt, sugar and 
baking powder together; beat egg light and add to milk; flour the fruit 
and mix all together. Let stand 20 minutes and bake in a moderate oven 
11/4 hours; cover with buttered paper if baked in open pan. Butter the top 
with melted butter if covered pans are used. Be sure to cover close while 
it is standing the 20 minutes. "^ 

40. Bread Pudding. — One pint grated bread crumbs, 1 quart milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful butter, 1 teacup sugar, 3 eggs, saving whites of two for frosting. 
While pudding is baking heat the two whites until very stiff ; add 1/4 cup of 
sugar and spread on pudding as soon as it comes from oven; then set in 
oven again to brown. 

41. Fruit Juice Blanc Mange. — Sweeten 1 cup of fruit juice to taste ; 
then stir 1 tablespoonful of cornstarch into a little of the juice and then into 
all. Boil until as thick as desired. 

42. Raspberry Float* — One pint red raspberries, 1 pint boiling water, 
1 cup sugar, 4 level tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice; 
put the sugar and cornstarch into a sauce pan, mix thoroughly, pour in boiK 
ing water and stir constantly over the fire until clear; remove, add lemon 
juice and berries and serve very cold with cream. 

43. Gelatine Jelly, — One b»x ©f C@x'a gelatine, 1 pint of celd Water t« 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 17S 

dissolve it, then 3 pints of boiling water, 8 pounds white sugar, I pint white 
wine and the juice of 3 lemons ; pour into a mold and set on ice. 

44. Fruit Puff Pudding- — One pint flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
and 1 teaspoonful salt, mixed thoroughly. Make into a soft batter with milk: 
Put into greased cups 1 spoonful of batter, then apples or other fruit and 
cover with another spoonful of batter. Steam % hour and serve with liquid 
sauce as follows : One cup sugar, % cup butter worked to a cream ; put 1^^ 
cups water in a sauce pan ; when it begins to boil thicken with flour (mixed 
in cold water) to a consistency of cream. Take from the fire and stir rapidly 
into the butter and sugar. Flavor with nutmeg or any desired flavoring. 
For a sour sauce use vinegar. 

45. Prune Whip. — Beat whites of 4 eggs stiff; add small cup sugar, 
% teaspoonful vanilla, % cup stewed prunes pitted and chopped fine. Put 
into buttered baking dish and bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. 

46. Blanc Mange. — Dissolve one-half box of gelatine by soaking it in 
a half cup of cold water for an hour. Blanch four ounces of sweet almonds 
and one-half ounce of bitter almonds and pound them together in a mortar 
occasionally moistening with orange-flower water. Put the pounded almonds 
into one quart of fresh cream, set them over a fire and stir constantly till 
they come to a scald and then pour in the gelatine. 

SAUCES. 

Use brown or powdered sugar for sauces and do not boil them after the 
butter is added. Instead of wine or brandy, grape or other fruit may be 
used as a sauce flavor, 

1. Cream Sauce for Puddings. — One-third cup of milk, 1 pint of cream, 
% cup powdered sugar, % teaspoonful vanilla. Mix the cream and milk 
and beat until stiff with an egg beater. Add sugar and vanilla. 

3. Hot Chocolate Sauce for Ice Cream or Pudding. — In "a granite sauce 
pan place 1 pound of light brown sugar, l^ pint fresh milk, 2 ounces of 
chocolate grated, 1 ounce of good butter. Boil together until it forms a 
soft ball when dropped into cold water. Take from the stove and flavor 
with vanilla. Serve hot ; can oe made beforehand and healed when wanted. 

3. Hard Sauce. — One cup powdered sugar and ^ cup of butter creamed 
together, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

4. Lemon Sauce. — One tablespoonful butter, 1 tablespoonful corn- 
starch, % cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 pint boiling water ; put cornstarch, egg, sugar 
and butter together and beat well, then pour over them the boiling water j»hd 
stir over fire until thick; take from fire and add as much lemon juice as 
desired. 

5. Pudding Sauce. — One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 tablespoonful 
flour, 1 pint boiling water; boil; add desired flavor. 

6. Fig Sauce. — Soak figs in cold water or a little sour cider ail night ; 
the cider is better. Then boil them gently until they are tender. Just 
before taking them from the fire add sugar to your taste. If you do not use 
cider the juice of one or two lemons should be used to prevent the sauce 
from tasting insipid. 



176 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 

"An't please your Honour," quoth the Peasant 
" This same dessert is very pleasant." 

—Pope. 

We give herewith a recipe that is the ground work of all creams made 
with custard: — 

Stir two ounces of lump sugar, or sufficient for the purpose required, 
into a pint of boiling milk. Have ready the beaten yolks of four eggs and 
pour the boiling milk over them.. Put into a stew pan, place over a slow 
fire and stir with a wooden spoon as briskly as possible for twenty minutes 
or until it begins to thicken ; then set on the coolest part of the range where 
it cannot simmer and let it stand for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. 
When the custard is ready it should be poured into a basin and flavored with 
vanilla, lemon or almond. Stir until cool so as to prevent a skin torming 
over the top. 

The secret of making a custard is in the stirring and when this is prop- 
erly done, a custard made with milk and the number of eggs given in this 
recipe will be as rich as one made with cream and a greater number of eggs. 

For cream and custards, eggs should be beaten in stone or earthenware 
but never in tin. 

Custard should always be baked slowly in a moderate oven for too much 
heat will turn it to whey. The rule for a custard to bake is one cup of 
sugar, four eggs and one-half teaspoonful of salt to a quart of milk. 

In boiling custard always use a double vessel. It is well to bake cus- 
tards in small cups to be served to each person 

Remember that nutmeg and cinnamon are used with sugar, and cloves 
and allspice with meats. 

On4y the outer part of lemon rind should be used. A good way is to 
rub it off with hard lumps of sugar. The sugar thus becomes saturated with 
the oil of the lemon. 

1. Apple Float. — Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a stiff froth ; add 4 large 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and beat until fine and dry; pare 3 large, 
tart apples and grate into this mixture a little at a time, beating all the while. 
Have ready a good sized glass dish partly filled with whipped cream; heap 
this by tablespoonfuls over the surface and dot here and there with candied 
cherries. 

2. Apple Snow. — Peel and grate, 3 small sour apples, sprinkling over 
it a small cup of powdered sugar as you grate, in order to keep it from turn- 
ing dark. Break the whites of 2 eggs into this and beat it constantly for 
half an hour. Have it on a large platter as it beats up very stiff and light. 
Heap in a glass dish, pour a fine, smooth custard around it and serve. 

3. Banana Pudding. — ^Two eggs, 1 quart of milk, 1^ teaspoonfuls of 
cornstarch or flour, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar ; cook 
in double boiler and when cool pour over 6 bananas sliced very thin. It is 
like ice cream. 

4. Bavarian Cream. — One and one-half pints of milk, % box of gelatine 
soaked in % pint of water, 3 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, salt. Put sugar and milk 
on to heat, then put in yolks mixed in a little of the cold milk, then add gela- 
tine and the whipped whites of the eggs. Pour over bananas or fruit if 
desired. 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 17? 

5. Charlotte Russe. — Soften 1 teaspoonful of gelatine in enough cold 
water to cover. When well soaked add a little boiling water to dissolve it 
and 4 heaping tablespoonfuls granulated sugar. When cool strain slowly 
into a pint of rich cream that has been chilled and whipped to a stiff froth, 
beating all thfe time while adding ingredients. Flavor to fancy. 

6. Cherry Tapioca. — Soak over night 4 tablespoonfuls of tapioca in 
a pint of water. Take a pint of stoned cherries, add their juice to the tapioca, 
stir in a pint of water and enough sugar to sweeten, boil gently for 15 minutes. 
Add the fruit and boil 6 minutes more. Serve very cold with plain or 
■whipped cream. 

7. Custard. — One tablespoonful of flour, 2 of butter and 4 of sugar; 
stir to a cream, add the white of 1 egg, pour ^4 pint of boiling water over, 
stirring constantly. When cool, add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Cike Part for Above. — One-half cup of sugar, yolk of one egg, 1 tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, 4 tablespoonfuls of water, P/^ cups of flour. 

8. Custard Souffle. — ^Two scant tablespoonfuls each of flour and butter, 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1 cup of milk and 4 eggs; let the milk come to a 
boil. Beat flour and butter together ; add gradually to the boiling milk and 
cook 8 minutes. Beat the sugar and yolks together, add to the cooked mix- 
ture and set away to cool. When cool add the well beaten vvhites of eggs. 
Pour into a well buttered pudding dish, bake 20 minutes and serve with a 
creamy sauce. 

9. Fruit Jelly. — Soak % box of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water until 
dissolved; then add 2 cups of sugar, pujp and juice of 1 lemon, 1 pint of 
boiling water. Strain over any ffuit desired and let thicken. 

10. Mock Whipped Cream. — To one large, sour apple, peeled and grated, 
add the white of one egg and one cup of sugar; beat all together a long 
time; flavor with vanilla. Mix applfe with sugar as soon as possible after 
grating to keep the apple from turning dark. This is used like whipped 
cream and is delicious. Very nice served on squares of sponge cake. 

11. Orange Float. — ^Slice 2 oranges and lay in sugar for an hour or 
longer. Make a custard of one pint of water, 1 heaping tablespoonful of 
cornstarch, 1 cup of sugar and the juice of 1 lemon; cook until as thick as 
rustard and when cold pour over the oranges. If desired place the beaten 
■yhites of 2 eggs on top, sweetened, and brown in oven. 

12. Pretty Pudding. — One cup of water, 1 cup of fruit juice, a pinch of 
salt, a rttle sugar if needed, 3 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch; boil 10 minutes, 
take off and beat in whites of 2 eggs. Cool and serve with a sauce made of 
1 pint C'f milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar and the yolks of 3 eggs. Cook and 
flavor. 

13. Pink Cream. — ^Three gills of currant or strawbterry juice. Mix with 
Yz pound of powdered sugar, ^ pint of thic* cream ; whisk until well mixed 
and serve in a glass dish. 

14. Raspberry Whip. — One cup of powdered sugar, white of one egg, 
1*4 cups of berries. Put all in a bowl and beat with wire whisk about half 
an hour, or until stiff enough to hold in shape. Pile lightly on dish, chill, 
surround with lady fingers and serve with thick cream. Strawberry whip 
may be made in the same way. 

15. Russian Cream. — Soak % pound of gelatine for half an hour in a 
littJ? water.; 1 cup of sugar, 1 quart of milk, 4 eggs; mix sugar, milk, yolks 
of rjrgs and gelatine together. Set in a kettle of water and boil 20 minutes. 

2-12 



178 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

Beat the whites stiff and stir into the custard after t^'mg frgm the fire. 
Flavor with vanilla and serve with whipped cream. 

16. Spanish Cream. — Cover one-third box of Cox's gelatine with cold 
water and let it stand for an hour. It should then have absorbed all the water. 
Heat three cups of milk ; add to it the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, a cup of sugar 
and the gelatine, with a half teaspoonful of salt. Stir this over the fire and 
as soon as it comes to a boil remove it to a table and add the beaten whites 
of 3 eggs and half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour this into molds and cool. 
Give it time enough in a cool place until it becomes firm. 

17. Strawberry Foam. — Mash 1 quart of strawberries with 1 large cup 
of sugar ; rub through a sieve ; add i/^ ounce of gelatine, dissolved and strained. 
Whip 1 pint of cream; beat the whites of 2 eggs and fold into the straw- 
berry juice ; set on ice to chill. Serve in glasses with fancy cakes. 

18. Velvet Cream (Elegant). — Put 3 large spoonfuls of pulverized sugar 
into % pint of cream beaten to a stiff froth ; add a large spoonful of gela- 
tine dissolved in a little water. Flavor with a teaspoonful of brandy or 
tablespoonful of sherry; let harden and serve with any fruit juice. 

19. Kiss Pudding. — Beat the yolks of 3 eggs with % cup of sugar till 
light ; add 1% tablespoonfuls of cornstarch ; stir in 1 pint of boiling milk ; stir 
on the stove until thick ; pour into a pudding dish ; beat the whites of the 
eggs with y2 cup of sugar and spread over the top and brown. 

20. Spanish Cream. — Make a soft custard of 1 quart of milk, 6 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, 6 eggs ; put 1. box of gelatine dissolved in 1 pint of water 
over the fire; add the custard; flavor. 

21. Apple Custard. — Take 1 pint of mashed stewed apples, 1 pint of 
sweet milk, 1 cup of sugar, 4 eggs and a little nutmeg; bake slowly. 

22. Charlotte Russe. — ^Three-fourths quart of rich cream, % pint boiling 
milk, 2 tablespoonfuls gelatine, 2 tablespoonfuls pulverized sugar, 1 teaspoon- 
ful vanilla. Put gelatine to soak in a little cold milk, then pour the boiling 
milk over it. To the cream add sugar and vanilla and whip till stiff; strain 
the milk containing gelatine and when cold mix with whipped cream, beat- 
ing while mixing. Lay some slices of stale sponge cake or some lady fingers 
in a mold ; pour mixture over them and set aside until stiff. 

23. Lemon Gelatine. — One-half pint cream, whipped, 1 cup gelatine, 2 
cups granulated sugar boiled to a syrup with water and set aside to get cold ; 
1 cup ground pineapple improves it; vanilla to taste. 



ICE CREAMS, SHERBETS AND ICES. 

" Give us the luxuries of life, and we will dispense with the necessaries." 

Ice cream is richer when cream is used instead of milk; however, milk 
alone may be used or milk and cream together. A number of varieties are 
obtained by adding various flavors and colors to vanilla ice cream, so we 
will first give a recipe for it. In making such ice cream as lemon, etc., 
from vanilla ice cream where the extract is used without the fruit, add 
one tablespoonful of extract to one gallon of vanilla ice cream. Ice cream 
expands in freezing so that the freezer does not need to be filled at first. 

In making ices be sure to use enough sugar and fruit for part of their 



ICE CREAM, SHERBETS AND ICES. 179 

taste is lost in freezing. There must be enough fruit, alsd, to give body to 
the ice. 

1. Vanilla and Lemon Ice Cream. — ^To make a gallon freezer full, take 
314 quarts of cream, 18 ounces of granulated sugar, 3 eggs well beaten and 
1 tablespoonful of vanilla extract. Freeze until stiff. To make lemon ice 
cream add 1 tablespoonful of lemon extract to a gallon of vanilla ice cream. 

2. Chocolate Ice Cream. — Shave 4 ounces of bitter chocolate very fine 
and add to it, a little at a time, 1 teacup of hot cream, rubbing continually 
with a spoon till the chocolate is all dissolved and smooth. Whip this thor- 
oughly into one gallon of vanilla ice cream. 

3. Strawberry Ice Cream. — Wash 1 quart of strawberries, cover with 
sugar and let stand until the sugar is dissolved, then pass through a fine 
cloth; add 1 tablespoonful of strawberry extract and whip into a gallon of 
vanilla ice cream. 

4. Banana Ice Cream. — Remove all dark spots from 4 bananas, mash 
thoroughly and whip into 1 gallon of vanilla ice cream. 

5. Almond Ice Cream. — One pint of blanched almonds, 1 pint of milk, 
1 quart of cream, 1 cup of sugar. Brown the almonds, then pound them 
to a paste in a mortar; cook the milk and pounded almonds together, then 
add the sugar and cook for a few moments ; strain the mixture through a 
sieve, pressing through as much of the almond as possible; when cold add 
the cream and ^ teaspoonful of almond extract. Freeze and when hard let 
stand 2 hours to ripen. 

6. Caramel Ice Cream. — Put 1 quart of milk in a double boiler; when 
hot add.l tablespoonful of cornstarch moistened with milk, yolks of 4 beaten 
eggs and % cup of sugar; boil to the consistency of custard. Scorch 1 cup 
of maple molasses or % pound maple sugar ; add a little water to it, then add 
to the custard ; cool, add 1 pint of cream and freeze. 

7. Cocoanut Ice Cream. — Grate a large cocoanut very fine ; add a cup 
of sugar and the cocoanut to a quart of cream and a little milk; when half 
frozen add the well beaten white of an egg. 

8. Macaroon Ice Cream. — One scant cup of sugar, 1 quart of cream, 
flavor to taste. If it is not wanted so rich a little milk may be added. Set 
% pound of macaroons in the oven for a few minutes to become brittle ; roll 
6ne and stir into the cream and freeze. 

9. New York Ice Cream. — Scant half cup of flour, 1 pint of milk, 2 
well beaten eggs. Mix flour smooth with a little of the milk ; add to the rest 
of the milk and the beaten eggs and 1^ cup of sugar ; boil in a double boiler ; 
when cool add 1 quart of cream and strain. When nearly frozen add candied 
fruit that has been cut fine and soaked in 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, and one 
more cup of sugar. 

10. Peach Ice Cream. — Slice very ripe fruit and let stand in sugar 
an hour or two ; before using run through a potato masher, or coarse cheese 
cloth, and add to the partly frozen ice cream. If desired, one or two peaches 
cut fine but not mashed, may be added at the last. A quart of peaches to 
a cup of sugar is a good proportion. 

11. Pineapple Ice Cream. — One pint of milk, 1 quart of cream, 1 can 
of grated pineapple, 1 pound of sugar, the white of an tgg and the juice of 
a lemon. Heat the milk to the boiling point, stir in the su^ar, and set 
aside to cool; as soon as the milk is cold add the cream and pmeapple and 
freeze. 



180 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

18. Raspberry Ice Cream. — One large cup of sugar, 1 quart of rasp- 
berries, 1 quart of cream, 1 pint of milk; mash the sugar and berries and 
let them stand half an hour, then squeeze them through cheese cloth ; after 
this has been done pour the milk on the pulp and squeeze again until per- 
fectly dry. There sliould be nothing left in the cloth but seeds. Add 
to the cream and freeze. Some add the juice of a lemon. 

13. Roman Cream. — Put % box of gelatine into 1 quart of milk ; soak a 
little while, then add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs and 1 cup of sugar ; cook for 
a few minutes, then add the beaten whites ; cool and freeze. To give it a 
caramel flavor, scorch some of the sugar. 

14. Lemon Ice. — Take the juice of 6 or 8 lemons and the grated peel of 
three. Sweeten with sugar or syrup to taste, remembering that part of the 
flavor is lost in freezing. Add 2 eggs well whipped and % ounce of gelatine 
dissolved in hot water. Strain the whole and freeze. 

15. Orange Ice. — ^Using oranges in place of lemons proceed as for lemon 
ice. Add the juice of the two or three lemons as the taste of orange alone 
is not sufficiently distinct in an ice. 

16. Cherry Ice. — Take 2y2 quarts of cherry juice and the juice of 3 
lemons. Add a few drops of the essence of bitter almonds and cochineal to 
color. Sweeten to taste and freeze. \ 

17. Currant Ice. — Take 3 pints of ripe currants, 1 pint of red rasp- 
berries and Yz pint -of water. Simmer for a few minutes, strain through a hair 
sieve, add another ^ pint of water and 13 ounces of sugar and it is ready for 
freezing. 

18. Strawberry Ice. — ^Take 4 pounds of fresh strawberries and the juice 
of 3 or 3 lemons ; color with cochineal and sweeten to taste. The strawberries 
and lemon juice with a little sugar should be passed through a sieve, then 
the rest of the sugar and the color should be added before freezing. 

19. Cranberry Ice. — Stew 1 quart of cranberries in enough water to 
cover them. When they are soft, mash and strain through a sieve; add one 
pound of sugar; dissolve one package of lemon Jell-o in a pint of warm 
water; add to the berries and when cold, freeze. 

20. Peach Ice. — Four cups granulated sugar, 1 can peaches, juice of 3 
lemons, whites of 3 eggs, 3 pints water. Cook peaches, lemon juice and 
sugar together ; when cool, add chopped peaches and whites of eggs ; freeze. 

21. Currant Sherbet. — One pint of red currant juice, one pound sugar, 
juice of 3 lemons, 1 pint of boiling water. Dissolve sugar in boiling water; 
when cold, add currant juice and freeze. Makes 3 pints. 

22. Lemon Sherbet. — One cup of sugar; 1 pint of milk, 1 lemon. Partly 
freeze the milk and sugar; then add the strained juice of the lemon and- freeze 
stiff. A little cream will improve it. This will make one quart. If desired, 
one can of pineapple may be added. 

23. Green Grape Sherbet. — Strain one quart of grapes through a cloth ; 
sweeten to taste. If too acid add from a pint to a pint and a half of water. 
Beat the whites of 4 eggs, and put the mixture into the freezer and turn slowly 
until frozen. This quantity makes a good gallon when finished. It is very 
white and beautiful and the medical properties of grape juice render it highly 
digestible. 

24. Orange Sherbet. — One scant pint of cold water, 1 tablespoonful of 
gelatine, 1 cup sugar, 6 oranges or one pint orange juice, V^ cup boiling 
water. Soak gelatine for 10 minutes in % cup of cold water ; put sugar and 



ICE CREAM, SHERBETS AND ICES. 181 

remainder of cold water into pitcher, also the orange juice; if the oranges 
are very sour add more sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in the boiling water 
and add to the mixture. Strain into the can and freeze. 

25. Pineapple . Sherbet. — Three lemons, 1 can of pineapple, 3 cups of 
sugar, 2 quarts of water, whites of 3 eggs. Whip the whites until stiff and 
add to the mixture after it is frozen ; turn awhile to thoroughly mix it. 

26. Bisque Glace. — One pint sweet milk, 1 quart cream, fi/^ dozen mac- 
aroons, Yz pint sherry wine, % box of gelatine; roll macaroons and soak in 
wine; let milk come to a boil and pour over gelatine undissolve^. When 
cold mix all together, sweeten to taste and freeze. 

27. Frozen Fruit. — Six oranges, 1 ten-cent can of pineapple, 1 pound white 
grapes, 4 lemons, 1 fifteen-cent bottle of cherries, 4 large cups sugar, 1 table- 
spoonful of gelatine. Cut the cherries and grapes in halves, and pineapple 
into small pieces; divide the oranges into quarters and remove all pith and 
dividing skin as far as possible, cutting the fruit into small pieces. Add 
the juice of the leriions and the gelatine dissolved in cold water and the 
sugar. Freeze shortly before serving, about as one would freeze sherbet, 
being careful not to make it too solid. This will serve about 40 people if 
served in small sherbet cups and costs, including ice to freeze, about 75 cents. 

28. Maple Frapp& — One large cup of maple syrup, yolks of 4 eggs; 
cook until smooth, cool, and add 1 quart of cream ; freeze. This is sufHcient 
for 10 people. . 

29. Three of a Kind. — ^The juice of 3 lemons and 3 oranges, 3 bananas, 
mashed fine, 3 scant cups of sugar, 3 cups of water. Mix and freeze. This 
will make 2 quarts. 

30. Plum Glaci. — One and one-half pounds of conserves, pears, pine- 
apple, cherries, plums, etc. Bake a sponge cake in a long pdft, cut in slices, 
soak the cake in 1 pint of Angelica wine. Make a custard of 1 quart of milk, 
the yolks of 4 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt and sweeten to taste ; 
let cool. Put a layer of fruit and cake in mold, then pour over custard. 
Freeze 12 hours with a tight lid over it — like ice cream, only do not stir. 
Serve with whipped cream flavored with pineapple. 

31. Tutti Frutti. — ^When vanilla ice cream is partially frozen add 
candied cherries, chopped citron, chopped raisins or other candied fruit 
chopped rather fine. Use abuut half the quantity of fruit that there is ice 
cream. 



BEVERAGES. 

Including Punch, Fruit Juices and Home-Made Wines. 

Drink, pretty creature, drii^k.— Wordsworth. 

"Polly, put the kettle on, and we'll all take tea." 

1. Dandelion Wine.--One full quart of dandelion blooms, 1 gallon 
water, 1 lemon cut in slices (not peeled), 2^^ pounds of sugar. Put in a kettle 



182 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

and boil 5 minutes, then pour into a jar; when cold, add 2 tablespeonfuls 
of good yeast. Keep in a warm place 3 days until it ferments, then strain 
and bottle; cork tightly. 

2. Grape Juice. — Three pounds of sugar to two baskets or 20 pounds 
of grapes. Wash and break from the stems, barely cover with water, mash 
and boil from 15 to 20 minutes ; then let it slowly drain through cheese 
cloth; add the sugar and let boil again. Bottle and seal immediately. 

3. Punch. — ^Juice of 3 oranges, juice of 3 lemons, 3 cups of sugar, 2 
quarts of water, 1 pint of port wine or fruit juice and add a few cherries 
or pineapple, chopped. 

4. Elder Blossom Wine. — Add 1 gallon of boiling water to 1 quart of 
elder blossoms and let stand 1 hour ; then strain and add 3 pounds of sugar ; 
boil a little and skim. Let stand until lukewarm; then add 1 lemon, sliced 
fine, and 1 tablespoonful good yeast. Let stand 34 hours. Then strain and 
put into bottles or jugs, filling full until all impurities are worked out. Be 
sure to fill up jugs as fast as it works out, and the wine will be a beauti- 
ful amber color. In making this wine, great care should be taken to keep 
all stems out, as they make the wine taste rank and give it a dark color. 

6. A Grapefruit Cocktail. — Break up the pulp of 2 grapefruit and 
pour over it % pint of brandy and ^2 piut of sherry. See that this covers 
the fruit. Sprinkle with sugar and let stand over night. In the morning 
add % pint of maraschino cherries and the liquor. This may be strained 
and served without the fruit if preferred. 

6. Raisin Wine. — Two pounds of raisins, seeded and chopped fine, 1 
pound of sugar, 1 lemon and about 2 gallons of boiling water. Put into a 
stone jar and stir daily for 6 or"8 days; then strain and bottle and put in 
a cool place for 10 days and it will be ready for use. 

7. Roman Punch. — Make a rich punch of oranges, lemons and pine^ 
apple. When partly frozen pour into it a pint of rum; some also add the 
sweetened whites of two eggs. All of the punch can be added or a part re- 
served and poured over the mixture after placed in the glasses. 

8. Tea Punch. — Six oranges, 6 lemons, 6 bananas, 1 can grated pine- 
apple. Make strong tea, about 2 quarts ; add sugar to taste and serve ice cold. 

9. Communion Wine. — ^Twenty pounds of grapes after taking off the 
stems, 6 quarts of water, 6 pounds granulated sugar. Put grapes and water 
in stone or earthen jars over the fire until the skins and seeds separate 
from pulp. Strain through cheese cloth and return to jars; add sugar and 
mix thoroughly, using china cup or wooden spoon; use no tin, iron or even 
silver about the wine. Strain again through fresh cheese cloth and put in 
Jars over the fire. Do not boil it hard but allow it to heat gradually until 
it begins to simmer or stir from the heat. Bottle at once. 

10.' Kentucky Egg Nog. — Stir % of a cup of sugar into 6 eggs that have 
been beaten until light. When dissolved add 12 tablespoonfuls of best 
whiskey. The whiskey is intended to cook the egg and the quantity used 
depends upon its strength. Mix a pint of rich cream with the other in- 
gredients. This makes 6 glasses of egg nog. Grate a little nutmeg over tha 
top of each glass when filled. 

11. Lamb's Wool. — Boil 3 quarts of sharp cider down to 2 quarts and 
while it is still boiling add a teacup of brown sugar, also a teaspoonful each 



BEVERAGES. 183 

t)i allspice, ginger, cloves and cinnamon; place the spice in a bag so it can 
be removed. Core and bake 6 good cooking apples until well done, scoop the 
apple out of the peel and put through a sieve. While the apples are still 
hot add them, with % teacup of brandy, to the cider and serve hot. 

12. Cream Toddy. — First whip a pint of rich sweet».cream, then put 3 
tablespoonfuls of whiskey and 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar in a glass and fill with 
whipped cream and stir well; two or three candied cherries may be placed 
on each glass. 

"13. Wassail Bowl. — With half a pound of Demerara sugar mix i^ 
ounce of grated ginger, a pinch of powdered cinnamon and half a grated 
nutmeg. Put tjiis into a sauce pan with a pint of ale, and let it boil ; then 
stir in two more pints of ale, half a bottle of Madeira, sherry or raisin wine, 
and a large lump of sugar which has been rubbed on a fresh lemon rind until 
the yellow part is taken off. Now let the wine get very hot but do not let 
it boil. Pour it into a bowl and throw into it six roasted apples and half a 
small lemon cut in slices with the white pith cut out. Serve very hot. 

14. A Cranberry Drink. — Put % pint of cranberries over the fire to boil. 
In another vessel boil half a gallon of water, the peel of half a lemon and 
an ounce of oatmeal for ten or fifteen minutes, then add the cranberries and 
water and a little sugar but not enough to take away the acid of the fruit; 
put in 2 glasses of wine. Boil for 20 minutes, strain and serve cold. 

I 15. Orange Toddy. — Take two ounces of powdered sugar, four ounces 
of strained orange juice, a strip or two of orange rind, half a pound of 
crushed ice and two ounces of old whiskey. A little shredded pineapple im- 
proves this recipe greatly. 

16. Milk Punch. — Put the thin rind of half a lemon into a quart of 
good milk in a double boiler and let it come to a boil. Beat together the 
yolks of 2 eggs and 4 ounces of sugar. Take the lemon rind from the milk, 
add the sugar and egg, also 8 tablespoonfuls of rum and 4 tablespoonfuls 
of whiskey. Whisk until the mixture froths, but do not let it boil again. 

17. Tom and Jerry. — Beat 4 eggs until they are very light. Into each 
glass put 3 tablespoonfuls of the egg, 3 tablespoonfuls of whiskey and 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of sugar; add a pinch of ground cloves, cinnamon and allspice and 
mix well. Fill the glasses up with boiling water and serve as soon as cool 
enough to drink. 

18. Gfape Juice. — Cover 8 quarts of picked grapes with 2 quarts of 
water and bring to a boil; strain same as jelly, then add 2 pounds sugar; 
let boil 8 or 10 minutes, then seal. 

19. Raspberry Vinegar. — Pour 1 quart of wine vinegar over 2 quarts 
of red raspberries and let stand over night; strain through jelly b^g on 2 
quarts of fresh berries. Next mbrning repeat this, making in all 6 quarts of 
berries and 1 quart of wine vinegar. Then to each pint of liquid add % 
pound of sugar and boil for 20 minutes. Bottle when cold. Proportion for 
beverage, 2 tablespoonfuls to 1 glass of water. 

20. Blackberry Wine. — First measure the berries and bruise them ; add 
1 quart of boiling water to each gallon; let the mixture st»tnd 24 hours, 
stirring occasionally ; then strain off the liquor and put into a cask ; to every 
gallon add 2 pounds of sugar ; cork tight and let stand till the next October, 
when it will be "ready for use. It may be bottled if desired. 



184 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

21. Christmas Temperance Punch. — To 4 pounds of sugar and 2 quarts 
of water add the grated yellow rind of 4 lemons and G oranges. Stir until 
the sugar is dissolved and then boil for 10 minutes. Strain, and when cool 
add the juice of the oranges and lemons and two tart baked apples which 
have been passed through a sieve. When wanted, put a small piece of ice 
in the punch bowl, pour over the syrup, add a pint each of grape juice and 
ginger ale, and enough eflfervescing water to make it palatable. 

23.^ Farmer's Soda. — Strain the juice of a lemon and put into a medium 
sized tumbler ; after adding a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, fill the tumblei 
% full of cold water; stir until the sugar is dissolved, then add a teaspoonful 
of soda, stir and drink while effervescing. 

23. Welsh Nectar. — To a gallon of water add 2 pounds of loaf sugar and 
the grated rind of 3 lemons; boil for 10 minutes and when cold, strain. Put 
into bottles each containing 24 raisins, seeded and chopped fine. Cork and 
set in a cool place, shaking every day for three or four days. This will keep 
for a week or two if well corked and in a cool place. 

24. Grape Granite. — To a pint of water add a pound of sugar and boil 
for 5 minutes. When taken from the stove add the juice of 1 orange and 
1 lemon. Add a pint bottle of grape juice when it is cool and chill with ice. 

25. Cherry Shrub. — Take a quart of very ripe stoned cherries and 
mash through a colander ; add these to a quart of water and a pound of sugar 
which have been boiled for 5 minutes; also add the juice of a lemon; strain 
and set aside until cold. Partly freeze or serve with shaved ice. 

26. Various Fruit Waters. — Nearly all kinds of fruit waters are made 
after the same recipe. Mash the fruit and add enough water and sugar to 
make of the right flavor and consistency. For instance, to make currant 
water mash a pound of ripe currants and add l^ pound of raspberries if you 
have them; strain the juice through a sieve and add a pound of granulated 
sugar and set aside. When ready to serve add enough water to make it 
palatable. 

27. Cottage Beer. — Put a peck of good wheat bran and 3 handfuls of 
hops into 10 gallons of water and boil together until the bran and hops 
sink to the bottom. Then strain it through a thin cloth into a cooler and 
add 2 quarts of'molasses when it is about lukewarm. As soon as the mo- 
lasses is dissolved, pour the mixture into a ten-gallon cask and add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of yeast. When fermentation is over with, cork up the cask and it 
will be ready for use in four or^ve days. 

28. Ginger Beer. — Add 6 ounces of bruised ginger to 3 quarts of water 
and boil for 30 minutes ; add 5 pounds of loaf sugar, ^ pound of honey, a gill 
of lemon juice and 17 quarts more of water; strain through a cloth and when 
it is cold add 2 drachms of essence of lemon and the whole of an egg. It 
may be bottled after it has stood for three or four days. 

29. Spruce Beer, — Add 2 ounces of hops to % gallon of water, boil for 
30 minutes and strain; add 8 gallons of warm water, 1 gallon of molasses 
and 4 ounces of essence of spruce dissolved in 1 pint of water; put it in a 
clean cask, shake all well together and add %, pint of yeast; let stand and 
work for six or seven days, or less if the weather is warm. When drawn 
off, add 1 teaspoonful of molasses to each bottle. 



CANNING, PRESERVING AND JELLY MAKING. 



185 



CANNING, PRESERVING, AND JELLY 

MAKING. 

" It is the bounty of nature that we live; 
But a philosophy that we live well." 

— Seneca. 



Canning Table, 

' Time ior 
Boiling 
Fruit, 
Kind of Fruit. Minutes. 

Apricots 10 

Apples, Crab , 25 

Apples, Sour lo 

Blackberries 6 

Cherries 5 

Currants ._ 6 

Gooseberries 8 

Grapes, Wild 10 • 

Huckleberries 5 

Peaches, in halves 8 

Peaches, whole 15 

Plums 10 

Pineapple : 15 

Pears, Bartlet, in halves 20 ' 

Pears, small, sour, whole 30 

Quinces 30 

Rhubarb 10 

Raspberries i 6 

Strawberries 8 

Tomatoes , 30 



6 to 
6 to 



Quantity 

of Sugar 

Per Quart, 

Ounces. 

8 
8 
6 
6 
6 
8 
8 
S 
4 
4 
i 
8 
6 
G 
8 
8 to 10 
8 to 10 
4 
8 




4 to 
4 to 
4 to 



6 to 



Remember that one level cupful of granulated sugar weighs about eight 
ounces. 



<:anned fruits. 

(All Kinds.) 

^ ^ When canning fruit see that the cans and elastics are perfect and that the 
tops fit properly. Put the cans and covers into a kettle of water and bring 
slowly to the boiling point. Dipping the elastics into the boiling water will 
be sufficient to sterilize them. Set the cans in a pan on the stove and fill 
to overflowing with the fruit which should be boiling hot. Put the top on 
quickly and screw it down tightly. As the fruit cools the tops should be 
screwed down again and again to keep tight. It is best to use glass cans. 
To test whether they are air tight turn thetti upside down as soon as they 
are filled. The juice will ooze out if they are not air tighfr. Each can should 
be wrapped with paper to exclude the light and then set in a dark place that; 
is cool but dry. The cans should be examined two or three days after filling, 
and if syrup leaks out from the rim the fruit should be recooked and used 
ior jam or jelly. 



186 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

PRESERVES. 

(All Kinds.) 

Preserves must be made with the greatest care. As soon as pared, 
peaches, pears, apples and quinces should be placed in cold water to keep 
them from turning dark. Many fruits, such as pears, quinces, citrons, water- 
melon rinds, cherries, currants, etc., harden when put at first into a thick 
syrup. To prevent this they should be cooked first in water or thin syrup 
and the rest of the sugar added later. Apples, peaches, plums, tomatoes and 
strawberries are likely to become too soft in cooking. It is a good plan 
to pour the hot syrup over these fruits or to put the sugar over them and 
let them stand several hours. Either method extracts the juice and hardens 
the fruit. 

Preserves should boil gently to avoid burning and to let the sugar 
penetrate the fruit. As a general rule, from three-fourths to a pound of 
either loaf or granulated sugar is used for each pound of fruit. Put sugaf" 
and water over the fire in a porcelain kettle. Beat lightly the white 
of an egg with two tablespoonfuls of water and add to the syrup just be- 
fore it boils. As it begins to boil the scum should be carefully removed. 

CANNING FRUITS, MAKING PRESERVES, JELLIES, ETC. 

Simmer until the preserves are clear, then take out each piece with a 
skimmer and put at once into the jars. Stew the syrup until it " ropes " 
from the spoon,' skimming off the scum which arises; then pour the syrup 
over the fruit in the jars and seal. When preserving apples or peaches it 
is an improvement to add a few slices of lemon or orange. To keep pre- 
serves from sugaring add a little tartaric when cooked. 

MARMALADES. 

Marmalades and fruit butters will require less boiling and will be 
smoother and better flavored if the fruit is well cooked and mashed before 
adding either sugar or vinegar. They should be stirred constantly with an 
apple butter stirrer. 

JELLIES. 

For jelly, select fruit that is not too ripe as it will jelly better and have 
a better flavor. It should be heated as the juice can then be better extracted. 
Jelly should be strained twice and will be much lighter if allowed to hang and 
drip over night. Heat the juice, then add the sugar which should first be 
heated in the oven. Jelly should be boiled rapidly in a panwith a large bottom. 
It should not stop boiling till done, which usually requires fifteen or twenty 
minutes. If a little gelatine be added it will not need to be cooked so long 
and will be of a lighter color. After the glasses are filled they should be set 
in the sun till cold, then a piece of writing paper should be placed directly 
on the jelly and another piece fastened over the glass with a rubber band. 
Moulding may be prevented by putting a teaspoonful of sugar on top of 
the jelly in the glass. 

I: Grape Marmalade. — Two pounds seeded raisins, 3 cups granulated 
sugar, 1 pound English walnut nieats; remove seeds and skins of grapes; 
cook 20 minutes. 



CANNING, PRESERVING AND JELLY MAKING. 187 

2. Quince Honey. — One quart of quinces grated fine, 1 quart of sugar, 
1 pint of water. Boil about 30 minutes after it comes to a boil. 

3. Orange Marmalade. — This is much more satisfactory if made in small 
quantities. Take 3 oranges and 1 lemon ; slice very thin, not using the ends. 
Place in a bowl and pour over it 3 pints of cold water ; let stand for 24 hours. 
Then boil in a porcelain kettle until very tender and let stand for another 
24 hours. Then to 'every cup of fruit and liquid add a cup of sugar and boil 
briskly for about an hour. Try, and the minute it jellies remove from the 
fire and fill hot dry glasses. Let stand two days .before sealing. 

- 4, Quince Honey. — Grate one large quince, add 2 cups of sugar and 
Yz cup of water.- Boil 20 minutes. 

5. Cooking Apricots. — Boil apricots for 5 minutes in water to which 
% teaspoonful of soda has been added and you will be surprised at the small 
amount of sugar it takes to sweeten them when cooking. 

6. Canned Com. — ^Add 1 cup of salt to 1 gallon of corn cut off the 
ears; mix well together and. pack in jars and steam 3 hours. Screw the lids 
on the Mason jars tight before steaming. 

7. Canned Elderberries (Excellent). — Add 21/2 pounds of sugar and 1 
pint of pure cider vinegar to 7 pounds of elderberries; boil 1 hour. Then 
seal in jars. This wilPfill four jars and is excellent for pies. 

8. Canned Beans. — Pack the beans in tight jars after stringing and 
breaking in small pieces. Put a teaspoonful of salt on the tops, and cover 
them with cold water. Seal jars tight. Place the jars in a boiler of cold 
water and let boil from 3 to 4 hours. 

'9. Canned Rhubarb. — Peel the rhubarb and cut into small pieces, pack 
in jars, fill with cold water, seal tight ; when ready to use will not need as much 
sugar as when fresh. 

10. To Cook Cranberries. — To 1 quart of cranberries add 1 teacup of 
water and put them over the fire. After (yoking 10 minutes, add 2 heaping 
cups of sugar, and cook 10 minutes longer, stirring frequently. Pour them 
into a bowl or mold and when cold they may be removed as a jelly. If pre- 
ferred, they may be strained through a siieve before putting in sugar. 

11. Preserved Cherries. — ^Use rich, red cherries ; stone and weigh them, 
adding % pound of loaf sugar for each pound of fruit. Let the fruit, stoned 
and sweetened, stand in a stone jar over night; in the morning. put them in 
the preserving kettle and cook until clear. Put in tumblers ; cover the tops, 
when cool, with melted paraffine before putting on covers. 

12. Strawberry Preserves. — Talce equal parts by weight of sugar and 
fruit ; the -berries should be solid, used as soon as ready and not sugared 
down. Use just enough water to keep them from sticking and put berries, 
sugar and water all on at the same time and cook for 20 minutes. Then 
spread on flat dishes and set in sun for 3 or 4 days and then put in glass jars. 
They will need no more heating or cooking. These are considered fihe. 

13. Pear Chips. — ^Ten pounds of pears sliced thin, 7 pounds of sugar, 
4 lemons boiled soft; press out the juice and pulp; chop the peel very fin^. 
Boil the sugar and fruit together until soft; then add the lemon, % pouhd 
green ginger root scraped and cut into bits. Let all boil slowly until quite 
thick. Can be put in jelly glasses and sealed with paper. Very fine. 

14. Gooseberry Conserves. — Six quarts green gooseberries, 6 pounds 
granulated sugar, 2 pounds seedless raisins, 5 oranges. Remove the stems from 



188 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOQK. 

the berries, and chop the raisins rather coarsely. Cut the oranges into halves 
and take out the juice and pulp, removing the seeds ; cook peel of three of 
them soft in enough boiling water to cover, changing water once or twice; 
drain ; remove the white part from the peel by scraping with a spoon. Then 
cut into narrow strips ; put sugar, berries, orange peel, juice and rind together 
in a kettle and heat slowly until the syrup is thick. 

15. Quince Honey. — Take four pounds of granulated sugar and 1 pint 
of water and boil for 20 minutes. Constantly skim syrup until clear; grate 
ly^ quince very fine ; then pour into the syrup and let boil 10 minutes. 

16. Orange Marmalade.— Cut the oranges in halves; take out the pulp 
with a spoon; take 1 lemon to 5 oranges, preparing the same way. Then 
cut the shell of the oranges in two, scrape out the white lining and put the 
skins on to boil; weigh the pulp, take half as much sugar and simmer to- 
gether 15 minutes. When the skins are transparent and tender, take up 
and, putting several pieces together, cut it quickly into the Jiarrowest pos- 
sible strips. Mix these with pulp and sugar ;- cook until very thick. Put in 
glasses and when cold, seal. 

17. Lemon Marmalade. — ^Take 6 lemons and slice them thin; remove 
only the seeds; add 3 pints of cold water to each pound of sliced fruit; let 
this stand for 24 hours, then boil until the chips" are tender ; pour into an 
earthen bowl and let stand until next day^ Then weigh and, to every 
pound of pulp, add 1% pounds of sugar; boil until the syrup jellies and the 
chips are transparent. 

18. Lemon Butter. — ^Juice and grated rind of 2 lemons, 2 cups of sugar, 2 
eggs, small lump of butter ; boil 10 minutes in a double boiler. 

19. Canned Elderberries. — Add 4 pints of sugar and 3 pints of best cider 
vinegar to each peck of cleaned elderberries. Cook until well done and, can. 

20; Tomato Preserves. — Scald and peel carefully some small tomatoes 
(yellow preferred), add an equal weight of sugar and let stand over night; 
pour off all the juice and boil until it is a thick syrup; add tomatoes and 
boil until transparent. A piece of ginger root or 1 lemon, sliced thin, to 
a pound of fruit is a good addition. Excellent. 

21. Pieplant Jelly. — Cut pieplant into small pieces, without peeling; 
cover with water ; boil to a pulp ; then strain through a flannel bag. Bring 
the juice to a boil and for each pint add a pint of sugar; boil for about 2S 
minutes or until it will jell. 

22. Orange Marmalade. — One dozen navel oranges and 2 lemons; cut 
in small pieces, the smaller the better. Cover with 3 quarts of water and let 
stand 24 hours. Then measure the juice and allow 1 pound of sugar to 1 
quart of juice and,boil until tender or transparent. _ 

23. Canned Apple Sauce. — Put apple sauce into hot jars and seal at 
once and it may be kept either for table use or for pies till apples are out of 
the market. 

24. Canned Pineapple. — Pare the pineapples and carefully cut out all 
the eyes ; chop them fine and weigh ; add the same weight of sugar ; put into 
a large crock, mix thoroughly and let stand 24 hours; fill the cans full and 
seal tight. In about two weeks look them over to see that none are spoil- 
ing. If they are, heat them again and refill cans. 



PICKLING. 189 

PICKLING. 

Including Recipes for all Kinds of Pickles, Catsup, Chow Chow, Chili Sauce, 

Chowder, Piccalilli, Etc. 

" Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers.'' 

It is always best to use cider vinegar in making pickles as other kinds 
eat the pickles or make them soft. Vinegar which is too strong should be 
diluted with water. The vinegar should never be boiled but should be poured 
on the pickles hot as it comes to the first scald. If pickles are put into brine 
the brine should be strong enough to float an egg. A heaping pint of coarse 
salt should be used to each gallon of water. Never put pickles into anything 
that has previously held any kind of grease and never let them freeze. A 
good way is to put pickles in bottles and seal while hot. Put a slice or two 
of horseradish into the jar with pickles. It will soon sink to the bottom, 
'caking the scum with it and leaving the vinegar clear. 

1. Beet Pickles. — One quart of beets chopped fine, 1 quart of cabbage, 
1 cup sugar, 1 teacup grated horseradish, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful 
pepper. Mix all together and cover with cold vinegar; can in air tight cans 
and keep in dark place. 

2. Chopped Pickles. — Two large heads of cabbage, 1 peck of green to- 
matoes, 3 green peppers, 1 small cup salt; chop, mix, let stand over night 
and drain. Cover with cider vinegar. Boil until soft; drain again and mix 
with 1 tablespoonful mustard, 1 tablespoonful cloves, 2 pounds of raisins, 
3 pounds of sugar, i/^ cup grated horseradish, 3 chopped onions, celery and 
salt to taste. Hot vinegar ^enough to make moist. Can rather dry. 

3. Chow Chow. — Two heads of cabbage, % peck green tomatoes, 1 large 
ripe cucumber, 2 large onions, 9 large, red sweet .peppers, 10 cents worth of 
white mustard seed, 10 cents worth of black mustard seed, 2 ounces celery 
seed, % pint salt, 1 coffee cup grated horseradish. Mix cabbage, tomatoes 
and salt ; let stand 4 hours in colander to drain ; drain onions and cucumbers ; 
scald 1% gallons of vinegar and 3 pounds brown sugar and pour over the 
mixture; heat thoroughly. This makes 10 quarts. 

4. Sliced Cucumbers. — Peel and slice a gallon of cucumbers and soak 
over night in weak salt water. Drain and put them in weak vinegar on the 
stove and let them get hot ; drain and pack them in glass jars. Take one quart 
of vinegar, a few slices of onions, sugar and spices to taste ; let it come to 
a boil. Then, while hot, pour this over the cucumbers and seal. 

5. Dill Pickles. — Fill a stone jar with alternate layers of grape leaves, 
fresh cucumbers, dill and salt. Cover with water and an inverted plate; 
place a brick on the plate to hold all under water. The cucumbers will 
be ready to use in about two weeks. 

6. Cucumber Pickles. — Wash some cucumbers from 1 to 2 inches long ; 
let them stand in moderately strong brine for 12 hours; remove from brine 
and place in a porcelain kettle; cover them with weak vinegar and let come 
to a boil. Pack in glass cans. In another vessel bring to the boiling point 
some strong cider vinegar with mixed spices and sugar, allowing ^ cup 
of sugar to 1 quart can of pickles. Fill up can with hot spiced vinegar and 
seal at once. 



190 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

7. Green Tomato Pickles. — Chop fine 8 pounds of green tomatoes; 
add 4 pounds of brown sugar and boil 3 hours; add 1 quart vinegar, 1 tea- 
spoonful each of mace, cinnamon and cloves, and boil 15 minutes. 

8. Tomato Higdom, — Mix lYz cups of salt with 1 bushel of green to- 
matoes chopped fine and let them stand over night. In the morning, after 
pressing hard to extract all juice, add 1 cup mustard, 3 pounds sugar, 12 
red peppers chopped fine, % cup celery seed. Mix thoroughly and pack in 
jars.- Over this pour half a gallon of hot vinegar. 

9. Mustard Pickles. — One quart large cucumbers, cut in pieces; 1 quart 
small cucumbers, 1 quart large tomatoes, 3 heads cauliflower, 2 quarts very 
small onions, 6 red and green peppers cut in strips. Put all in separate dishes 
of salt and water and let stand over night. In the morning drain off and cook 
in separate dishes" of clear water until nearly tender. Then put together 
and boil a short time in the following paste : One ounce pulverized tumeric 
seed, y2 pound ground mustard, 3 cups of flour, 7 cups sugar, 1 gallon 
vinegar. "- 

10. Pickled Peppers. — Cut the stems and rind from the peppers. Then 
put into strong hot brine, repeating this for three mornings, and then drain 
off and cover with hot vinegar. When wanted, take out of brine and stuff 
with creamed sweetbreads and mushrooms and ^erve on lettuce leaves. 
A very pretty and appetizing luncheon dish. 

11. Sweet Pickled Peaches. — Wash clean several pounds of peaches that 
are not too ripe ; it is best to use clings and do not peel them. Put into a porce- 
lain kettle 3 pounds of brown sugar, 1 pint of strong cider vinegar and a 
small handful each of cinnamon and cloves and bring to a boil. Put in as 
many peaches as the liquor will cover ; cook until moderately soft and put into 
jars. Cook all alike and, poUr liquor over them. 

12. Sweet Pickled Prunes.— Four pounds of prunes, 1 pint of vinegar, 
2 pounds of sugar, 1 ounce each of cmnamon and cloves, and % ounce of 
ginger. Boil the vinegar, spices and sugar together 10 minutes ; after soak- 
ing the prunes for 2 or 3 hours and steaming them 10 or 15 minutes, pour the 
hot vinegar over them and boil all together until the prunes are tender. 
These wilt be found excellent. 

13. Gooseberry Catsup. — To 1 pound of gooseberries use % pound of 
sugar, spices to taste ; 1 pint of vinegar to 10 pounds of fruit. Boil 2 hours. 

14. Celery Sauce. — Two stalks (arrow-root) celery, 15 large ripe to- 
matoes, 3 red peppers, 2 onions, 1% cups vinegar, 2 spoonfuls salt, 8 table- 
spoonfuls sugar; chop all fine and boil IV2 hours. ^ 

" 15. Tomato Sauce. — Melt 2 tablespoonfuls butter; add 2 tablespoonfuls 
flour and 1 pint strained tomatoes ; also a small bay leaf, slice of onion, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt, a dash of pepper, 2 cloves and a bit of mace ; simmer 15 min- 
utes; strain and serve. 

16. English Chow Chow. — One quart of cabbage, 1 quarf^of green to- 
matoes, 1 quart of onions, 1 quart of cucumbers (pickle), 6 green peppers. 
Chop fine, put in weak salt water and scald until tender; strain and while 
hot pour paste, also hot, over the mixture. 

Paste. — One cup of sugar, 1 cup of flour, 1 tablespoonful each of tumeric 
and celery seed, 6 tablespoonfuls of ground mustard, 2 quarts of pure cider 
vinegar. This makes oris gallon. 

17. Tomato Ketchup. — ^Twelve ripe tomatoes, 4 green peppers, 2 large 
onions, 2 tablespoonfuls salt, 4 cups vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls ginger, 2 table- 



PICKLING. ,191 

spoonfuls brown and white sugar, 1 tablespoonful mustard, 1 tablespoonful 
cinnamon ; boil all together 3 hours or until thick enough. 

18. Damson Plum Catsup. — Put 2 quarts of ripe damson plums in a 
stone jar and cook them with good vinegar ; let them stand for 3 or 4 days, then 
with the hands mash them up and put them through a sieve; have your 
kettle xeady and to a pint of liquid add one pound of brown sugar and sea- 
son to taste with allspice and cinnamon, beaten fine; let it boil % hour; skim 
it while boiling. When cold, bottle and cork. 

19. Chowder (Very Fine). — One peck green tomatoes, 1 dozen sweet 
peppers, 1 dozen onions, all chopped fine ; sprinkle over 1 quart ^ait, let stand 
over night. In the morning drain off and cook one hour in 1 quart vinegar; 
drain again. Mix with 3 quarts vinegar, 1 bowl sugar, 1 teaspoonful each 
ground cinnamon, celery seed, ground mustard (or seed)', and boil 15 minutes. 
If liked, one may add allspice, cloves and 1 pint grated horseradish. 

20. Com Sauce. — Three dozen corn, ^ dozen red peppers, % dozen 
green peppers, 1 cup salt, 3 pints cider vinegar, 1^^ pints sugar, 1 large or 

2 small heads of cabbage, 2 tablespoonfuls tumeric powder. Slice corn from 
cob without boiling. Take seeds from peppers and chop fine. Slice cab- 
bage fine. Mix all together apd boil half an hour. Seal in glass jars. 

21. Pickled Cabbage. — One gallon of finely cut cabbage, 2 green pep- 
pers cut fine, one pound sugar, 1% cups mustard seed, 1% spoonfuls of salt, 

3 tablespoonfuls of celery seed, 1 cup grated horseradish, a small piece of 
alum. Pack in crock and cover with heavy muslin. Then cover with old 
cider vinegar. No cooking in this. - : 

22. Stuffed Peppers. — Soak 3 dozen peppers in salt water over night, 
then make the filling. Take one head of cabbage and 2 bunches of celery and 
chop both fine; spices to taste, also some of the seeds of peppers; 1 quart 
of water, 2 quarts of vinegar, 1 pint of sugar; boil for 30 minutes. Pour 
over peppers while hot. 

23. Bordeaux Sauce. — One gallon green tomatoes, 2 gallons chopped 
cabbage, 1 dozen onions, 1% pounds brown sugar, salt to taste, 1 dozen 
green and red peppers, celery seed and one bunch celery, allspice to taste, 
cloves, tumeric powder, mustard seed or 3 tablespoonfuls ground mustard ; 
boil 20 minutes. 

24. Piccalilli. — One gallon green tomatoes sliced, 6 good sized onions 
sliced, 1 pint granulated sugar, 1 quart pure cider vinegar, 1 tablespoonful 
salt, 2 tablespoonfuls mixed spices. Mix all together and stew until tender, 
stirring continually; put in fruit jars and seal. 

25. Euchered Crab Apples. — Cook nice crab apples till tender; drain; 
pack in jars with a few whole cloves and pieces of cinnamon bark in each 
jar. Make a syrup of the proportion of 1 quart of good vinegar to 3 pints of 
sugar ; boil the syrup 5 minutes ; skim, then pour over fruit and seal. These 
are excellent. 

26. Small Cucumber Pickles. — Soak over night 50 cucumbers in warm 
salt water containing a piece of alum the size of a hazelnut. Then drain 
oflf the water and wipe each pickle dry. Place in a jar. Take % pint of water 
and 1 quart of cider, vinegar and mix spices with whole horseradish 
root; let come to a boil, then pour over the pickles and seal. 

37. Spanish Pickle. — One gallon of cabbage, 1 gallon of ripe cucum- 
bers chopped fine, 7 pods of green peppei", 1 pint of salt; drain all together 
24 hours. Then mix 1 gallon of vinegar, 1 ounce of white mustard seed, 1 



198 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

ounce of black pepper, horseradish and celery seed to taste, 1 ounce of 
tumeric and 3 pounds of brown sugar; then add to this cucumbers, etc. and 
cook one hour. 

28. " Dandy " Home-Made Pickles. — Make a brine of salt and water 
strong enough to float pickles. Leave the pickles in this over night; drain 
in morning. Make kettle of water slightly sour and add lump of alum size of 
hickory nut ;-put pickles in this till heated through but not cooked ; then wipe 
on dry cloths and pack in quart jars; add to each jar ^ teaspoonfuf whole 
mustard, 2 teaspoonfuls celery seed, a pinch of cayenne pepper, 3 tea- 
spoonfuls sugar, 2 parts vinegar to 1 part water; heat, fill jars and seal. 

29. Spiced Peaches. — Eight pounds of peaches, 4 pounds sugar, 1 ounce 
cloves, 1 ounce cinnamon, % ounce mace, one pint vinegar; boil the juice 
three times; in the third, boil the fruit until soft; if there is too much 
juice to cover them, boil down until just enough. ^ 

30. Canned Beets. — Cook the beets until -tender, slice and pack in 
jars, put sugar and salt to taste on top and then pour scalding vinegar over 
until jars are filled. Seal tight. 

31. Canned Cucumbers. — Slice the desired number of peeled cucum- 
bers; sprinkle a little salt over them; let stand for 30 minutes, then drain; 
do not squeeze; pack them in jars; pour cold vinegar over them and seal 
tight. When ready to use, season to taste with pepper and onions. 

32. String Bean Pickles. — Wax beans are best for these pickles. Cut 
off the ends, string and steam over boiling salt water until they are easily 
pierced with a fork; drain on a cloth and when cold pack in a jar, putting 
a little red pepper between the layers. Make a spiced vinegar by adding 

1 cup of sugar and a teaspoonful each of white mustard and celery seed to 
each pint of vinegar. When hot pour this over the beans, weight and let 
stand for 3 or 4 days in a cool place. Then drain, reheat the vinegar, cover 
the beans with horseradish leaves, pour on the hot vinegar or syrup, and 
let stand a week before using. These are fine. 

33. Mixed Pickles. — ^Two quarts cucumbers, 1 quart onions, 1 quart 
green tomatoes, 3 green peppers, 1 large cauliflower; cut all in pieces and 
soak over night in salt and water. In the morning scald in the same brine 
and then make a dressing of 2 quarts vinegar, ly^ cups sugar, 1 cup flour 
moistened with vinegar, 3 tablespoonfuls prepared mustard, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls tumeric dissolved. Pour off the brine and put on the dressing and bring 
to a boil, then can and seal. Very fine. 

34. Sour Cucumber Pickles. — One gallon vinegar, 2 ounces white ginger . 
root, y2 pound ground mustard, 2 ounces white mustard seed, 1 pound small 
onions, 1/4 pound salt, 2 ounces whole black pepper, 2 ounces whole cloves, 

2 ounces ground cinnamon. Put the salt and onions in 3 quarts of the 
vinegar, cold; tie the spices in a thin muslin bag and boil a few minutes in 
the remaining quart of vinegar; when cold, put all together; wash the cu- 
cumbers and drop them into this liquor as soon after gathering as possible. 

35. Chili Sauce. — Two large ripe tomatoes, 3 onions chopped fine, 3 
green peppers chopped fine; cook together until soft and put through the 
colander ; then add 3 tablespoonfuls of salt, 1 cup sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls ground 
cinnamon, 2 teaspoonfuls ground ginger, 1 teaspoonful ground cloves, 2 
cups good vinegar; cook until as thick as desired, then bottle and seal. Ex- 
cellent. 

36. Cold Catsup. — Peel and slice 1 peck ripe tomatoes, sprinkle lightly 



PICKLING. 193 

with salt, let stand 2 hours and drain off the water; add S horseradish roots 
grated or put through the vegetable chopper, Va teacup fine salt, Vg teacup 
white mustard seed, 1 teaspoonful black pepper, 2 red peppers chopped fine 
without seeds; if liked, 4 ounces of coarsely chopped celery; 1 tablespoon 
chopped onion, ^ cup sugar, 1 teaspoonful ground cloves, 2 teaspoonfuls 
ground cinnamon, 3 pints of vinegar. Mix cold. Tie a cloth over but do not 
seal. 

37". Watermelon Pickles.— Pare off the green and the red parts of 
water-melon rinds, saving only the white; cut m any desired shapes; place 
in a jar, alternating small quantities of rind with a little salt. Let stand for 
a day or two in a cool place, then thoroughly rinse; put on to boil with 
equal parts of vinegar and water and add a level teaspoonful of pulverized 
alum. Boil till you can pierce with a fork, then rinse again. For the syrup 
use one quart of vinegar to 3 pints of sugar and whole cloves, allspice and 
cinnamon in a small bag. Boil down to suit your taste. Just before taking 
' off, put the rinds in and boil a little longer. Can and seal. 

38. Cucumber Pickles. — Wash the cucumbers and put into glass cans. 
For one quart can add a dessert spoonful of salt and fill with vinegar. Can 
freshen and put into clear vinegar when used. 

39. Sweet Pickles, Pears, Peaches and Apples. — Seven and one-half 
pounds of fruit, S^^ pounds sugar, 1 pint vinegar, whole cloves and stick cin- 
namon as preferred. Boil sugar, vinegar and spices and add fruit. Boil until 
easily pierced with fork. Remove fruit and put into cans or jars. Boil down 
the syrup and pour over the fruit. 

40. Com Salad. — Twenty ears of corn, 1 cabbafe, 3 green peppers, 
4 good sized onions, 4 cups vinegar, 2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoonful tumeric pow- 
der, 2 tablespoonfuls mustard ; cut corn from ears ; chop fine the cabbage, 
peppers, and onions together and cook slowly for a few minutes. Can while 
boiling hot. 

41. Mexican Chili Sauce. — Stew long red peppers until soft in sufficient 
water to cover. Scrape red pulp from inside of skin; reject skin and seeds. 
Make a dressing of flour with ham or bacon grease, hot water and salt; add 
,chili; serve with meat. 

42. Pickled String Beans. — String the beans and cut them into inch 
lengths. Let them stand in strong brine 8 days, changing it 3 times. Drain 
and lay in clear cold water for 1 day, then dry between the folds of a towel. 
Pack in glass jars with scalding vinegar which has been brought to a boil 
with a minced onion, a dozen whole cloves, a heaping tablespoonful of mus- 
tard seed and 4 blades of mace. Screw on the tops and do not use for a month 
or six weeks. 

43. Pickled Peaches (that will keep). — Four pounds of sugar and one 
pint of vinegar to 12 pounds of fruit. Put sugar and vinegar together and 
boil, then add the fruit and let it corne to a Boil. Next day drain off the 
liquor and boil again. Do this 3 times and your pickles are delicious. Add 
cinnamon to the liquor and stick 2 or 3 cloves into each peach. 

44. Cucumber Catsup,T.-One-half bushel full-grown cucumbers ; peel and 
chop them, sprinkle with salt, put in sieve and let stand over night ; add 2- 
dozen onions cut up small, i/g pound white mustard seed, % pound black mus- 
tard seed, 2 dozen black peppers, ground. Mix well with best cider vinegar, 
making it the consistency of thick catsup and fill jars, tying up closely. ' No 
cooking required. 



iM THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

45. Tomato Catsup. — One bushel good ripe tomatoes, % gallon' cider 
vinegar, % pound allspice, 2 ounces cloves, 3 tablespoonfuls black pepper, 
6 large onions or 2 heads of garlic, 1 pint salt, 4 large red peppers ; cook thor- 
oughly and strain through sieve, then boil till it is thick enough and add 
vinegar. 

46. Chili Sauce. — One-half bushel tomatoes, y^ peck onions, 4 table- 
spoonfuls salt, 2 tablespoonfuls each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice, 3 table- 
spoonfuls black pepper, 3 cups sugar, 1 gallon vinegar ; chop onions fine, mix 
everything together and boil constantly one hour and 15 minutes. Dandy 
good just as it is. 



PRESERVING MEATS. 

Including Curing, Smoking and Pickling Meats; Making Corned Beef, 
Sausage and Mince Meat and Preserving Eggs. 

"There's no want of meats, sir. 
Portly and curious viands are prepared 
To please all kinds of appetite." 

— Massenger. 

1. Corned. Beef. — For 100 pounds of beef take '^ pounds of salt, 1 pound 
of sugar, 1 ounce of saltpeter and 4 gallons of water; dissolve the saltpeter 
in a little hot water and add it and the salt and sugar to the water ; scald the 
crock, pack the beef, sprinkle on a little salt and then pour on the brine and 
be sure to keep well weighted so that every particle is kept under the brine. 

2. Dried Beef. — Brown salt like coffee and while hot roll each piece of 
beef in it thoroughly ; pack in a crock and let it remain five days ; take, out, 
wash well and hang up to dry. 

3. Curing Hams. — To each gallon of water add 1% pounds of salt, % 
pound of sugar and % ounce of saltpeter; dissolve saltpeter in a little hot 
water and mix all together; rub the hams with salt, pack in a well scalded 
crock, pour on the brine and be sure to weight well and keep-all under brine. 

4. Curing Hams. — When thoroughly cold after killing, trim them nice 
and smooth; pack them in "salt and let them remain five or six weeks, then 
dip into boiling brine; rub the flesh side with pulverized black pepper as 
long as it will stick. Hang in dry place. 

5. To Keep Smoked Hams. — Riib the flesh part with molasses and 
sprinkle on all the black pepper that will stick. Hang where they will keep 
dry. 

6. Pickle for Beef or Ham. — For each hundred pounds of beef or ham 
use'9 pounds of salt, 4 ounces of saltpeter, 3 ounces of saleratus and 2 quarts 
of molasses; add water to make enough brine to cover meat. Scald brine., 
skim and let cool before pouring on meat. 

7. To Preserve Sausages. — Roll into small thin cakes and fry until well 
done; then pack closely in jars and pour melted lard over them till the top is 
covered an inch deep. Set in a cool place and you will have nice sausage all 
summer. 

8. Curing and Smoking Hams. — Hang the hams up for a week or ten 



PRESERVING MEATS. 195 

days. If kept perfectly sweet, the longer they hang the more tender they 
will be. For each good sized ham mix 1 teacup of salt, 1 ounce of saltpeter, 
and 1 tablespoonful of molasses. Put the hams in a tub ; heat the mixture 
and rub well into the hams; repeat this until the mixture is all used; then 
let them lie two or three days. Then put them for three weeks into brine 
that is strong enough to float an egg ; take from brine, soak in cold water for 
eight hours and hang up for a week or longer ; smoke from three to five days 
but be careful not to heat the haras. Apple tree wood and corn cobs are 
good for smoking. Smoke the hams with the hock down. Tie the hams in- 
bags until wanted for use. 

9. Sausage. — To 10 pounds of chopped meat add 4 ounces of salt, 1 
ounce of pepper,-^ ounce of powdered sage and ^ tablespoonful of ginger. 
When cool, pack in pans, cover thick with lard and then with paper. Keep 
in a dry, cool place. Each time after taking some out for use, press the 
paper back again. 

10. Mock Sausage.-^Soak some dry bread in water and mix with it the 
same quantity of finely chopped cold meat. Season with pepper, salt and 
sage ; make into small cakes and fry. 

11. Head Cheese. — ^Take the heads, feet, tongues and other convenient 
pieces of fresh pork ; remove the skin ; boil until all is tender and can be easily 
stripped from the bones. Then chop very fine and season with pepper and 
salt, and ground cloves if you like, or sage leaves may be rubbed to a powder 
and added. Mix well with the hand. Put into deep pans with straight sides 
and press it down hard with a plate that fits the pan. Put th, under side of 
the plate next the meat and place a heavy weight on it. In two or three 
days turn it out of the pan and cut into thin slices. Use vinegar and mustard 
over it. 

12. Bologna Sausage. — Chop fine 10 pounds of beef and 2^^ pounds of 
pork and thoroughly mix with it % ounce of powdered mace, ^4 ounce of pow- 
dered cloves, 2% ounces of powdered black pepper and salt to taste. Let stand 
12 hours and stuff in muslin bags that are 4 inches wide and 10 inches long. 
Lay them in ham pickle for five days and then smoke them for eight days. 
Hang in a dark place. 

13. Scrapple. — ^Take a hog's jowl, the feet and part of the liver and 
heart ; cleanse, put into cold water and cook until the bones may be easily re- 
moved. Chop fine and season with pepper, salt and sage. Strain the liquor on 
the stove and again add the meat. Thicken with corn meal and a teacupful of 
buckwheat flour till it is as thick as mush. Dip out into deep dishes and 
when it is cool it may be sliced and fried like mush. By pouring hot lard 
over it you can keep it all winter. It is very nice for breakfast on a cold 
morning. , . 

14. Cracknels.— rThis is what is left from. frying out lard. Put th^m 
into a pan with a little warm water and some bread crumbs or cold corn 
bread broken fine. Add pepper and salt. Fry a nice brown and serve hot. 

15. Pig's Feet Souse. — After scraping, cleaning, washing and singeing 
the feet, put them into a kettle with plenty of water. Boil and skim,, then 
pour off the water and add fresh and boil until the bones may be pulled 
out easily ; do not bone, but pack in a stone jar with salt and pepper between 
each layer; cover with cider vin>:gar. When wanted for use, put in a hot 
skillet and add more pepper, salt and vinegar if needed. Boil until thoroughly 
heated, stir in a smooth thickening of flouT and water, and boil until the 



196 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

flour is cooked. Serve hot as a breakfast dish. Or, when they have boiled 
until tender, take out the bones and pack in a jar as above. Slice cold -when 
wanted. 

16. Mince Meat (that will keep).— Two pounds 6l lean beef bpiled, 
when cold chop fine; 1 pound of suet minced to a powder, 2 pounds of sul- 
tanas or seedless raisins, 5 pounds of juicy apples pared and chopped, 2 
pounds of currants, % pound of citron chopped, 2 tablespoonfuls of mace, 3 
tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, 1 tablespoonful of allspice, 1 grated nutmeg, 1 
tablespoonful of fine salt, 3 pounds of brown sugar, 2 quarts of sweet cider. 
This mince meat will keep all winter. 

17. Pressed Beef. — ^Take the desired amount of the cheaper pieces of 
beef and let there be a little fat so that it will be " marbled " when pressed. 
Lay in weak brine over night, then rinse and boil until very tender or until 
it will fall apart easily. Water may be added at any time, but only enough 
shoula be used to keep it, from burning. Keep closely covered so as to retain 
the flavor. Remove the meat from the liquor and chop fine. Skim all the 
grease from the liquor and add to the liquor a tablespoonful of gelatine for each 
five pounds of beef. Boil the liquor down until the gelatine is dissolved 
and the liquor is like jelly. Mix_it, with a little salt and spices to suit, in 
the chopped beef ; pack in jars ; cover with a plate and weight down. It will 
keep several months in- winter. It should be sliced when wanted for use. 
When using, keep it covered with cloth wet with salt water. Garnish with 
sliced lemon. 

18. Preserving Eggs.-^Pour three pails of water over four quarts of un- 
slacked lime and when it is cold add one-half pound of salt and one ounce 
of cream of tartar. Eggs covered with this liquid will keep a long time. ' 



'*WHAT TO DO" AND ''HOW TO DO IT." 

Including Various Recipes of All Kinds. 

" We have gathered a posie of other men's flowers 
And nothing but the thread which binds them is ours." 

I. Blacksmith's Borax for Welding.— One ounce of salt, one ounce salt- 
peter, two ounces copperas, four pounds of sand; mix. 

' 2. Washing Fluid.— One ounce of salts of tartar, one ounce of carbon- 
ate ammonia, one box Babbit's lye, one gallon of soft wafer. Use one-half 
teacup to a washing. 

3. Furniture Dressing.-^Use equal parts of alcohol and raw linseed 
oil. First remove all greasy substances, then apply with a soft woolen cloth. 

4. Washing Fluid, — One box of lye and fiye cents worth of borax, 
salts of tartar and dry ammonia. Dissolve in two gallons of hot water. 
Take of? fire before putting in ammonia. To be used in boiling suds. 

5. To Clean Carpets. — One cake ivory soap, one bottle ammonia, five 
cents worth of ether ; dissolve soap in one gallon of hot water ; when cool, add 
ammonia and ether. Scrub small spate at a time with a brush and wipe dry 
with a soft cloth wrung out of warm water. 

6. Wall Paper Creaner. — ^One-half cup water, one cup flour, three tea- 



"WHAT TO DO" AND "HOW TO DO IT." 197 

spoonfuls vinegar, three teaspoonfuls ammonia, one teaspoonful carbon oil. 
Boil and stir constantly until thick ; work in small balls, and rub paper with 
downward strokes. Will not streak or spot if made as directed. Fine. 

7. Carpet Cleaner. — ^Two bars ivory soap, four ounces soda, four 
ounces borax; dissolve the soap in a quart of water; add five ^[allons of 
water and, when ready to use it, add four ounces of sulphuric either; use 
while hot with scrubbing brush. You do not need to use any cloth or 
clean water. 

•8._ Carpet Cleaner. — ^Use five cents worth of salts of tartar to one. bar 
of white wool or ivory soap ; add this to three gallons of water. Shave the 
soap up fine and let it boil. Apply with brush and drywith dry cloth. This 
is fine. 

9. To Destroy Odor of Burning Lamp Wicks. — Boil new lamp wicks 
in vinegar and then thoroughly dry them. There will then be no odor from 
them when burning. 

_ 10. To Remove Paint Stains from Cotton and Wool. — Old dry paint 
stains may be removed from cotton arid woolen goods by first covering the 
spots with olive oil or butter and then applying chloroform. 

11. To Preserve Eggs. — One quart of salt, one pint of slacked lime and 
three gallons of water. This liquid will keep eggs for years. 

12. Ink Spots. — Oxalic acid will remove ids spots from books without 
injuring the print. 

13. Rust. — Iron rust may be removed with kerosene oil. 

Sl4. To Purify Cistern Water. — Cistern water may be purified by hang- 
ing a bag of charcoal in the water. 

15. A Tight Shoe. — Wring a cloth out of hot water and apply to the 
part that is tight. If necessary renew and keep shoe on until the leather is 
stretched. 

16. Cleaning Plates Before Washing. — Tack a bag on the inside of the 
kitchen sink door and in it keep cloths to be used in cleaning plates, etc., 
before dishwashing. Dip the cloth in water, rub on a little soap, then wipe, 
instead of scrape, the dishes. A great help in kitchen work. 

17. To Clean Linoleum or Oil Cloth. — Instead of using soap and water, 
wash with sweet milk. The milk makes it look fresh and bright without 
destroying the luster. 

18. To clean Mud from Clothing. — ^Use a corn-cob to rub the mud from 
the clothing, then brush well. 

19. To Kill Insects, Such as Bed Bugs, Moths, Etc. — Hot alum water 
is the best thing /known to destrqy insects. Boil alum in water until it is 
dissolved; then apply the hot solution with a brush to closets, bedsteads, 
cracks, or wherever insects are found. All creeping insects may be destroyed 
by its use. There is no danger of poisoning and its persistent use will rid 
you of the pests. 

20. ^ To Remove the Smell of Onions from the Breath. — Parsley, eaten 
with vinegar, will destroy the unpleasant breath caused by eating onions. 

21. To Clean and Keep Oil Cloth Nice.^Wash in clean, warm, soft 
water in which has been dissolved a large spoonful of borax. If hard water 
is used, more borax will be needed. 

23. To Mend Iron Vessels. — Mix finely some sifted lime with the white 
of an egg till a thin paste is formed, then add some iron filings. Apply this to 
the fracture and the vessel will be found nearly as sound as ever. 



198 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

33. To Clean Lamp Chimnejrs. — Hold chimney over the steam coming 
from a boiling kettle, then wipe it inside and outside with a soft muslin 
cloth. 

24. An Excellent Furniture Polish. — ^Use equal parts of vinegar, tur- 
pentine and sweet oil. The bottle should be well shaken each time before 
using. Wet a cloth and rub well over the furniture, then wipe with a soft 
dry cloth. 

25. To Remove Tan. — ^Wash with a solution of lemon juice and car- 
bonate of soda; follow with the juice of unripe grapes if they may be had; 
if not, with " Fuller's Earth Water." 

26. To Remove Wrinkles. — Melt and stir together one ounce of white 
wax, two ounces of strained honey and two ounces of the juice of lily bulbs ; 
apply to the face every night and it is said your wrinkles will disappear. 

27. To Remove Coffee Stains. — The yolk of an egg mixed with a little 
water will remove coffee stains. Glycerine will do the same. Rub out before 
washing. 

28. To Remove Ink from Linen. — Dip the stained parts in pure melted 
tallow, then wash in water. 

29. To Remove Grease from Woolen Goods. — Do not put either hot 
or cold water upon woolens that have had grease spilled upon them. Sprinkle 
the parts with either buckwheat or rye flour and let it absorb the grease ; 
then brush off the flour and apply more, so continuing until all the grease 
has been absorbed. Cornstarch is equally effective when used upon cloth 
in the same manner. 

30. To Exterminate Roaches. — With a machine oil-can squirt kerosene 
oil into cracks and seams behind woodwork, then sprinkle powdered borax 
Over the shelves and blow it into the cracks with a powder blowdr. 

31. To Keep Steel Knives from Rusting. — Dip the knives in a strong 
solution of soda, four parts of soda to one of water; then wipe dry, roll in 
flannel and keep in a dry place. 

32. Washing Blankets. — ^When washing blankets make a lather of boiled 
soap and warm water and for each pailful and a half of water allow a tea- 
spoonful of household ammonia. Wash in two or three waters, put through 
the wringer and hang out to dry. Choose a fine windy day so the blankets 
will dry quickly. 

33. To Exterminate Bed Bugs. — ^Use kerosene oil freely wherever the 
bugs are found. 

34. Cement for Glass and Iron. — Alum melted in an iron spoon ovei 
the fire makes a good cement for joining glass and iron. It is useful for ce- 
menting the glass part of a lamp to its metal base and stopping cracks about 
the base, as paraffine will not penetrate it. ~ 

35. To Dry Boots. — Fill wet boots with dry oats and set aside for a few 
hours. The oats will draw the moisture from the boots and, swelling out, will 
keep the leather from shrinking and hardening as it would do if placed near 
the fire to dry. 

36. To Remove Kerosene. — Cover the spot with cornmeal; lay a paper 
over it and rub with a moderately heated iron. Two or three applications 
will remove the kerosene. Finely powdered chalk may be used instead''of 
the cornmeal if desired. 

37. To Remove Fruit Stains. — Fruit stains may be removed from table 
linen by pouring boiling water through the cloth where it is stained- 



" WHAT TO DO " AND " HOW TO DO IT." 199 

38. Furniture PoKsh. — ^A fine furniture polish may be made by taking 
equal parts of vinegar and salad oil. Apply sparingly with a flannel and 
polish off thoroughly with clean cloths. Don't forget to mix lots of " elbow 
grease " with this. 

39. To Clean Glass. — Dampen a cloth with either alcohol or ammonia, 
then dip it into some finely sifted wood ashes and polish the glass. Wipe off 
with a perfectly dry cloth. 

•40. To Clean a Glass Decanter. — Put into it a spoonful of vinegar and 
a few lumps of soda. Shake it well but leave the top open or it may burst 
the decanter. Rinse with cold water. 

41. To Remove Panes of Glass. — Lay soft soap over the putty for a 
few hours and it will become soft so that it may be easily scraped away no 
matter how hard it may previously have been. 

43. To Clean Light Gloves. — Light gloves may be cleaned by rubbing 
them with fine bread crumbs. It is best to rub them after each wearing 
so that they do not become badly soiled. 

43. To Clean Kid Gloves. — If not too badly soiled, kid gloves may be 
cleaned by rubbing them with a piece of oiled silk wound about the finger. 

44. Gnats. — Camphor is the be?t preventive and cure for the stings of 
gnats. 

45. To Remove Grass Stains. — Rub the stains with spirits of wine and 
they will readily come out when washed in soap and water. 

46. To Remove Grease. — Take equal parts of benzine, ether and al- 
cohol; wet a sponge in the mixture and apply by patting the spot; put a 
piece of blotting paper on each side and iron with a hot flaiiron. 

47. To Remove Grease from Floor. — Soda and hot water will remove 
grease from the floor. 

48. To Remove Ink Stains. — If ink is spilled upon a carpet, table- 
cloth or dress it is best to take up as much of the ink as possible with blotting 

. paper, or salt is also good to absorb it. Then wash the parts thoroughly 
with milk several times until all the ink is removed. It is then well to wash 
out the parts with ammonia water to- remove grease, li the spots are dry, 
rub a piece of lemon on some salt and then upon the stain. Oxalic acid and 
salts of lemon are both good also. 

49. To Clean Lamp Chimneys. — Rub them with a piece of newspaper 
upon which a little kerosene has been poured. This is better than soap and 
the chimney will not be so likely to crack. 

50; To Wash Flannels. — Put borax in the water and the flannels wiU. 
look like new and will not shrink. 

51. Ironing. — A little table salt added to the starch helps in the ironing. 

52. To Prevent Scorching when Ironing. — Rub the iron on a cloth^satu- 
rated with kerosene. . . , , , 

53. To Remove Stains from Clothing.— Rub the stamed parts with lard 
before washing. With washable goods, the yolk of an egg rubbed upon the 
stains before laundering will remove the spots. 

54. To Wash Black Stockings. — Black stockings will retain their color 
if washed in warm suds of water and soap, with a little vinegar in the rinse. 

55. To Polish Patent Leather.— Orange juice will be found to be a good 
polish for patent leather. 

56. To Remove Old Paint and Varnish. — A mixture of two parts of 



200 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

ammonia and one part turpentine will soften old paint and, varnish so that 
they may easily be scraped off. 

57. To Wash Painted Surfaces. — Wash painted surfaces with milk. 

58. Piano Polish. — Rub well with a piece of flannel cloth saturated with 
a mixture of equal parts of turpejatine, linseed oil and vinegar, Polish with 
a piece of chamois^ skin. This treatment will entirely remove the dingy 
appearance from fine woods. 

59. To Loosen Screws. — Hold a red hot poker on the head of a rusty 
screw for two or three minutes and it may be easily removed with a screw 
driver. 

60. To Clean Blackened Silver. — Add a teaspoonful of ammonia, to a 
cup of water and use a little oi this to make a paste with whiting. Apply 
the paste to the silverware with a soft chamois and polish it, using another 
chamois to dry it. 

61. To Remove Soot. — Should soot fall upon the carpet cover it with 
dry salt and it may be swept up without leaving smears. 

63. To Remove Tea Stains. — Tea stains may be removed by washing 
the fabric with milk. After the milk has dried the grease may be removed 
with benzine or naphtha. 

63. To Frost Window Panes. — Dissolve oome epsom salts in beer and 
apply with a brush and you will have the best window frosting known. 

64. To Dry Woolens Without Shrinking. — A large manufacturer of 
woolen goods says that woolen garments should be hung on the line dripping 
wet and not wrung out at all. If dried in this way the shrinkage will be 
almost unnoticeable. 

65. Moths. — Moths will not lay their eggs where fine-cut tobacco has 
been scattered. 

66. Moths. — Sprinkle furs and woolens and the drawers and boxes in 
which they are kept with spirits of turpentine and the moths will not bother 
them. 

67. Moths. — Camphor gum is a preventive of moths. Goods packed 
in a cedar chest will be kept free from moths. Exposing clothes and furs 
occasionally to the light and air and beating and shaking them is probably 
the best treatment, however. 

68. To Keep Away Mice. — Mice do not like the smell of camphor gum 
and if it is placed in drawers or trunk^ they will keep at a distance. Seeds 
may also be protected by mixing small pieces of camphor gum with them. 

69. To Drive Rats Away Without Killing. — Put plenty of pulverized 
potash in their holes and places they frequent and they will leave the premises. 

70. To Drive Rats Away. — Put some copperas in whitewash and paint 
the places they visit. Also scatter the crystals of copperas in their holes 
and runways and over the floors and the rats will look for another home. 

71. To Drive Away Rats. — Scatter either sulphur or sage about the 
places they frequent and you will get rid of the troublesome pests. 

73. A Preventive for Red Ants. — Pour a quart of boiling water over half 
a pint of tar in an earthen vessel and set the vessel in the closet and you 
will not be troubled with red ants. 

73. To Get Rid of Flies. — It is said that you will not be troubled 
with many flies if you keep geraniums growing in the house. Then why not 
have more flowers and fewer flies? 

74. To Prevent Bites from lyiosquitoes and Flies. — M'vk three ounces of 



" WHAT TO DO " AND " HOW TO DO IT." 201 

sweet oil r nd one ounce of carbolic acid and when mosquitoes are troublesome 
apply to the face and hands every half hour. After it has been tjsed two or 
three days and the skin is saturated it may be used less frequently. Be 
careful not to get it in the eyes. It is 'very effective and not harmfulto 
the skin. 

75. Mosquitoes and Flies. — Apply to the face and hands a mixture of 
six parts of sweet oil, one part pennyroyal and one part creosote and you 
will prevent bites of mosquitoes and flies. Do not allow it to get in the eyes. 

76. To Clean Jewelry. — Wash the jewelry in soap suds, rinSe it well 
in diluted alcohol and lay it in sawdust to dry. Fine for gold chains and all 
kinds of ornaments. 

77. To Clean Silver. — Rub the silver with alcohol and ammonia, then 
polish with a little whiting on a soft cloth. Even frosted silver may be 
made clear and bright with this treatment. 

78. To Purify Water. — A large spoonful of pulverized alum will purify 
a hogshead of water. It should be thoroughly stirred in and it will be very 
effective in killing microbes. 

79. To Make Hard Water Soft.— Fill the boiler with hard water and 
set on the stove. Then put half a cup of wood ashes into a woolen bag 
covered with cotton cloth to prevent the sifting out of the ashes and hang 
the bag in the water until the water is warm. 

80. To Clean Tinware. — Take the fine, soft coal ashes which collect 
in the pipe and under the pan; mix these with soft soap and scour with a 
flannel doth. Afterwards polish with a clean flannel. '- ; 

81. Gem Washing Fluid. — Put thr^e quarts of rain water over the fire 
and add one pound of salspda, one ounce salts of tartar and one ounce of 
borax. After it is taken from the stove and is cold add one ounce of ammonia. 
Put one cup of this into the boiler when boiling clothes. 

82. Hard Soap.— Put seven pounds of tallow, three pounds of rosin 
and two pounds of potash into six gallons of water and boil for from three 
to five hours; pour into a wash tub and let it stand over night. In the 
morning cut it into bars and lay in the sun for two or three days to harden. 

This win last an ordinary family a year and save many a quarter that is 
spent for soap. 

83. Soft Soap.^To six gallons of soft water add three pounds of best 
hard soap (finely cut), one pound of salsoda and four tablespoonfuls of harts- 
horn; boil until it is entirely dissolved; pour into convenient vessels and 
when told it will be ready for use. This makes fifty pounds of fine soft soap. 

84. To Remove Scorches from Cloth. — Spread over the scorched places 
a mixture of the juice of two onions, two ounces Fuller's earth and one- 
half pint of vinegar. These ingredients should be itijxed, thoroughly boiled 

and cooked before using. \ \ 

85. To Remove Stains Caused by Scorching. — Often all that is re- 
quired to whiten scorched linen is to wet it with soap suds and lay it in the 
hot sun. Another method is to boil the linen in a gallon of milk in which 
is dissolved a pound of white soap. 

86. To Remove Mildew. — Dip the article in sour buttermilk, lay it in 
the sun to whiten and wash in clean water. Another method is to apply 
a mixture of soap, starch, salt and the juice of a lemon. Use half as much 
salt as starch. 

87. To Remove Linen Stains. — Rub the stains with soft soap, apply a 



202 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

starch paste, dry in the sun and wash out in cold water. Repeat several 
times if necessary. 

88. To Clean Gilt Frames. — Take chloride of plaster or soda, one ounce ; 
white of eggs, two ounces ; mix thoroughly and apply with a soft brush aftei 
blowing the dust from the frames. 

89. To Keep Butter for Winter Use. — Into six pounds of fresh butter 
work a large spoonful of salt and a tablespoonful each of saltpeter and 
powdered white sugar. Pack in a crock that is perfectly clean and cover 
with salt. 

90. To Prevent Rust^Melt together one part of rosin and three parts 
of lard and apply a thin coating to stoves, grates, plows, etc. It is equally 
good when used on brass, steel, copper and other metals. This also makes 
a gocd water-proof application for boots and shoes. 

91. Cement for Wood, Ivory, Stone, Porcelain, Leather, Silk, Woolen 
or Cotton. — Melt together in an iron vessel one part, by weight, of giitta 
percha and two parts of common pitch and you will have one of the ^t)est 
cements made. It is not afifected by water and is thus especially valuable for 
certain purposes. 

93. Cement for Rubber or Leather. — Dissolve two ounces of gutta 
percha in a pound of chloroform. Thoroughly clean the parts that are to be 
cemented, cover each part with the mixture and let them dry for nearly 
half an hour, then warm each part in a candle flame and press firmly toge th*r 
until dry, 

93. Diamond Cement. — Dissolve thirteen ounces of white glue in a 
pint and a half of soft water, then stir in three ounces of white lead and 
boil until it is thoroughly mixed ; remove from the stove and when c^)l add 
half a pint of alcohol ; bottle at once and keep tightly corked. 
.94. Weights and Measures. — 

One pound of soft butter is equal to a pint. 

Ten_eggs are equal to a pound. 

A pound of brown or white sugar, powdered or loaf sugar, 

broken, equals a pint. 
A pound and two ounces of either wheat flour or corn meal i& 

equal to a quart. 
Eight large tablespoonfuls are equal to a gill. 
Thirty-two large tablespoonfuls equal a pint. 
A common sized wine-glass holds four tablespoonfuls, or half a 

gill. 
A common sized tumbler holds Jialf a pint or sixteen large table- 

ijpoonfitls. 
Four ordinary teacups of liquid equal a quart. 

95. To Clean Coat CpUars and Remove Gloss from Seams and Elbows.- ■ 
Rub the parts with a clean flannel dipped in either benzine or aqua ammonia 
or a solution made by dissolving a piece of carbonate of ammonia the size 
of a walnut in a cup of warm water. These are inexpensive and will not 
change! the color. Do not use benzine in a room where there is a light or fire. 

96. Liquid Glue.— Dissolve glue in nitric ether and it will be twice as 
adhesive as that dissolved in hot water. The glue cannot be made too thick 
as the ether will dissolve only a certain amount of glue and will be of about 
the consistency of molasses. If a few bits of India rubber are dissolved in 
it the glue will be all the better and will stand moisture better. 



" WHAT TO DO " AND " HOW TO DO IT." 203 

97. Cement for Broken China. — Dissolve gum arable in water until it is 
quite thick and then stir in plaster of Paris until it makes a sticky paste. 
Apply with a brush, stick the pieces together and after three days you cannot 
break the china in the same place. 

98. Fire-Kindler. — Soak corn-cobs in kerosene oil; when needed put a 
cob in the stove, set fire to it and put on the fuel. 

99. To Loosen Covers of Fruit Jars. — Place the cover in hot water for 
two or three minutes and it may then be easily unscrewed. 

100. To Wash Calicoes, Cambrics and Muslins. — Before washing, soak 
them in water in which has been dissolved one or two tablespoonfuls of salt 
to each pail of water. 

101. To Wash and Dry Flannels. — ^Wash flannels with as little rubbing 
as possible. Pull them both lengthwise and crosswise while drying rapidly. 

103. Washing Black and White Calicoes. — Soak them first in water to 
which has been added one or two cups of weak lye to each pail of water. 

103. Washing Pink and Green Calicoes. — It is best to use one or two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar to each pail of water. 

104. Washing Purple or Blue. — ^Use one or two tablespoonfuls of either 
salsoda or borax to each pail of water. 

105. To Wash Ribbons. — Ribbons should be washed in cold suds and 
should not be rinsed. 

106. To Remove Paint Spots from Windows. — Dissolve an ounce of 
salsoda in a pint of soft water. Use it hot. Tie a flannel on a stick, dip into 
the liquid and apply until the paint is softened, then wash off with hot water. 

107. Washing Windows. — Add a tablespoonful of either powdered borax 
or ammonia to a gallon of warm water and wash the windows, using a 
chamois to dry and polish them. 

108. China and Glass Cement. — ^Mix one pint of milk with one pint of 
vinegar; take out the curds and to the whey add the whites of five eggs; 
beat well together and add enough finely sifted quick lime to make a thick 
paste. This cement is fine for mending glass and china as it is affected by 
neither fire nor water. 

109. Grafting Wax. — Melt together two pounds of rosin and a half 
pound each of tallow and beeswax. Mix thoroughly, cool in cold water and 
work until it is pliable. It will keep for years. 

110. To Destroy Currant Worms and Rose Slugs. — Spray the bushes 
with a solution of one pound of powdered hellebore to twenty-five gallon^ of 

water. .... 

111. Cabbage Worms. — Spray the cabbages^with a mixture of six quarts 
of water, one ounce of yellow soap and one pint of kerosene, and you will 
kill the worms without injuring the plant. This mixture should be kept well 
mixed while applying. , , , , , .^ . 

112. Treatment of New Cooking Utensils. — Iron pots should be boifed 
out first with wood ashes and cold water and then thoroughly washed. They 
are then ready for use. Griddles, skillets, waffle irons and iron gem pans 
should be greased and allowed to burn off once or twice before they are 
used for cooking. , , 

113. To Wash Greasy Skillets. — Greasy skillets are best cleaned when 
hot. The addition of a little soda to the first water will make them more 
easily cleaned. 



204 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

114. To Clean Bottles and Cruets.— *These are best cleaned with shot 
and soap suds. Save the shot in a bottle to be used again. 

115. Care of Coffee Pots. — If you would have ^ood coffee a.\vra.ys keep 
the inside of the pot clean. Boil it out once in a while with soap, water and 
wood ashes and scour it thoroughly. 

116. The Teakettle. — In localities where there is lime in the water 
it is well to keep an oyster or egg shells in the teakettle to receive the 
lime deposits. 

117. To Clean Kitchen Floors, Tables and Wooden Articles. — ^Use sand 
or bath brick to scrub floors, tables and wooden articles. 

118. To Keep Silverware. — It keeps best when wrapped in blue tissue 
paper. 

119. To Keep Hinges from Creaking. — Dip a feather into- oil and rub 
them witlv it. . 

120. To Drive Away Fleas. — Sprinkle a few drops of lavender about 
the beds and other places they infest. 

121. To Drive Away Red Ants. — Put a small bag of sulphur in the 
drawers and cupboards. 

122. Icy Windows. — Rub the glass with a sponge dipped in alcohol and 
the windows will be kept free from ice. Alcohol is also good to polish them 
witli. 

123. To Kill Roaches. — ^They may be poisoned by sprinkling the floors 
at night with hellebore. 

124. To Keep Pails and Tubs frojn Shrinking. — Soak them with gly- 
cerine and the pails and tubs will not shrink and fall to pieces. 

135. To Keep Flies Off Gilt Frames. — Boil three or four onions in a pint 
of water and apply the water to -the frames with a soft cloth or brush. 

126. To Remove Dry Putty from Window Frames. — Pass a red hot 
poker over the putty and it may easily be removed. 

127. To Soften Hard Water. — Water may be softened by boiling it. 
Hard spring water is softened by adding a piece of chalk to it. Cistern water 
that is hard from long standing may b_e softened by the addition of a little 
borax. 

128. To Remove Smell of Fresh Paint. — Mix chloride of lime in water, 
sprinkle hay with it and place in the room. 

129. To Clean Chromos. — Go over them carefully with a slightly damp- 
ened linen rag. If any of the varnish is off apply a thin mastic varnish. 

130. To Clean a Sponge.-^Rub fresh lemon juice thoroughly into a 
soured sponge, then rinse several times in warm water and the sponge will 
be as sweet as when new. 

131. To Take Kerosene and Grease Spots from Carpets. — Cover the 
grease spot with flour and then pin a thick paper over it and aftSr leaving 
awhile sweep up the flour. Repeat several times. 

132. Hard Whitewash. — Dissolve five cents worth of glue in warm 
■water and mix with ten cents worth of kalsomine, two quarts of soft soap 
and bluing. Fine for halls, fences, etc. 

133. To Remove Bad Smells from Clothing. — Articles of clothing or 
any other articles which have bad smelling substances on them may be freed 
from the smell by wrapping them up lightly and burying in the ground for 
a day or two. _ 



" WHAT TO DO " AND " HOW TO DO IT." 205 

134. To Mend Tin. — Scrape all rust and grease from the parts to be 
mended, rub a piece of resin on it till a powder lies about the hole, lay a 
piece of solder over it and hold a hot poker or soldering iron over it until 
the solder melts. 

135. To Remove Grease from Wood Before Painting. — Whitewash the 

farts at night and wash off in the morning. Let it dry before painting, 
t is as well to lay a little slacked lime on the parts and dampen a little, 

136. Lightning Cream for Clothes or Paint.— ^Dissolve four ounces of 
finely cut white castile soap in one quart of soft water over the fire ; remove 
from fire ; add four ounces of ammonia, two ounces of alcohol, two ounces of 
ether and one ounce of glycerine. 

137. Magic Furniture Polish. — One-half pint of alcohol, one-half ounce 
• gum-shellac, one-half ounce resin, a few drops of aniline brown ; mix and 

let stand over night, then add one-half pint spirits of turpentine and three- 
fourths pint of raw linseed oil. This should be well shaken before using. 
Apply with a cotton flannel and rub dry with another cloth. 

138. To ToJiper Lamp Chimneys and Other Glassware. — Put them 
into cold water; bring slowly to the boiling point and let them boil for an 
hour. They should be allowed to cool before removing from water. 

139. A Good Cement for All Kinds of Articles. — Mix litharge and gly- 
cerine until of the consistency of thick cream or fresh putty. This is,^ good 
for fastening on lamp posts, mending stone jars, stopping leaks in seams 
of wash boilers or tinjjans, cracks in iron kettles, etc. It is not affected 
by water, heat or acids. 

140. To Clean Wall Paper. — Blow the dust off the wall with a bellows 
and then, beginning at the top of the room, go all over the paper, rubbing it 
with downward strokes with pieces of stale bread. Or, tie about two quarts 
of wheat bran in a flannel and go over the paper with that. Or, dry corn meal 
may be used instead of bread. Apply on a cloth. Grease spots may be 
removed by laying a blotter over them and then holding a hot fiatiron on 

the ^^||,J-^'^*|»Q Y>nve Away Red Ants.— Scatter "sweet fern in the places tfiey 

"*^ 143 ' To Remove Egg Stains from Silverware.— Rub, the silverware with 
a little salt or wash in water in which potatoes have been boiled. _ 

143 To Rertiove Taste of Fish from Tableware.— Rub steel knives and 
forks with fresh lemon or orange peel to remove the taste of fish. 

144. Corks.^If they are too large put them mto hot water for a few 
• moments to soften. . , . . , ... 

145. To Prevent Rusting of Cutlery.— After wipmg dry, wrap it m 

coarse ^brown^aper.^^ Tin Teakettles.— With a woolen cloth saturated with 

kerosene a tin teakettle may be rubbed as bright as new. 

Kerosene a^i^^ ^^ ^.^^ Tableware.-It will keep bright if washed m clean 

water v/ith soap added. Never scour it. _ , , „ . ^ 

148 Silver Polish.— Add three ounces of precipitated chalk and two 
ounces of ammonia to one quart of rain water, fceep well corked m a bottle 
and shake before using. . r.„„i , 

149 Cement for China, Marble and Glassware.—Add ^enough finely 
powdered quick lime to the whites of two eggs to make a thick paste. 



206 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

150. Water-proof Paper Covering for Jars — Used in Preserving, Etc. — 
Brush the paper over with boiled linseed oil and hang over a line until dry, 

151. To Remove Tight Glass Stoppers. — Wet a cloth in hot water and 
wrap it around the neck of the bottle. Another way is to wind a- cord once 
around the neck of the bottle and saw back and forth a few times until the 
neck is heated and expands. 

152. To Clean Knives. — Take a raw potato, cut it in two, dip the flat 
surface in brick dust and rub the knife blades. This will remove rust and 
stains. A cloth or a cork may be used in like manner. 

153. A Fire Kindler. — Melt together a quart of tar and three pounds 
of resin and stir in as much pulverized charcoal and sawdust as possible; 
spread on a board to cool and then break it into lumps the size of a walnut. 
These lumps may be lighted with a match and will burn quite a while with 
a good blaze. 

154. To Clean Brass or Copper Kettles.— ^First scour with soap and 
ashes, then put in a handful of salt and a half pint of vinegar ; put over the fire 
and let come to a boil and wash out thoroughly, afterwards rinsing with 
water. If the kettle is used every day the scouring with soap and ashes may 
be omitted. 

155. To Soften Water. — Boil a small bottle in a kettle of water to 
soften the water. The carbonate of lime and other impurities will be found 
adhering to the bottle. 

156. To Remove Rust from Plows and Other Steel Implements. — Rub 
the steel well with sweet oil and let it remain for two days, then rub it with 
finely powdered unslacked lime until the rust is removed. 

157. ' To Polish Iron or 5teel, — Vienna lime and alcohol applied with 
leather, chamois, a cork or piece of soft wood will give a fine polish to iron 
or steel. 

158. To Clean White Zephyr. — Rub with either magnesia or flour and 
change often. Shake off the flour or magnesia and hang for a short time 
in the open air. 

159. To Clean Alpaca. — Sponge alpaca with strained coffee and iron 
on the wrong side with black cambric Under the goods. 

160. To Take Out Machine Oil. — Rub with a little soap and wcsh out 
in cold water. Another way is to rub with a little butter or lard and wash 
in warm water. 

161. To Stiffen Linen Collars and Cuffs. — Add a teaspoonful of brandy 
and a small piece of white wax to a pint of fine starch. Soap the bottom 
of the iron if it sticks. 

162. To Clean Rusty Wash Boilers. — Wash them with sweet milk or 
grease witltlard. 

163. To Remove Paint from Clothing. — Saturate the spot two or three 
times with equal parts of spirits of turpentine and ammonia and then wash 
out with soap suds. This treatment will remove paint no matter how dry 
or hard it may be. 

164. To Restore Velvet. — Velvet when crushed may be restored'to its 
original beauty by holding it over a basin of hot water with the wrong side 
next the water. 

165. To Remove Spots, Caused by an Acid, from Cloth. — ^Touch the 
spots with spirits of hartshorn. 



" WHAT TO DO " AND " HOW TO D®, IT." 207 

166. To Remove Spots, Caused by an Alkali, from Cloth. — Moisten the 
spots with either vinegar or tartaric acid. 

167. To Prevent^ Blue from Fading. — All shades of blue may be pre- 
vented from fading by soaking for two hours in a solution of an ounce of 
sugar of lead to a pail of water. The material should then be allowed to dry 
before washing and ironing. 

168. To Wash Red Table Linen. — Set the color by using warrn or tepid 
water in which a little powdered borax has been dissolved; wa^h the article 
separately and quickly, using but a very little soap and rinse in tepid water 
containing a little boiled starch ; hang in the shade and iron when almost dry. 

169. To Clean Alpaca. — Put the goods into a boiler half full of cold 
rain water and let come to a boil and boil three minutes. Wring out of the 
boiling water and put into a pail of very dark indigo water, let remain for 
half an hour, wring out and iron while damp. 

170. To Clean Velvet. — Turn a hot flatiron bottom side up, put one 
thickness of wet cotton cloth over it, lay the velvet on this with the wrong 
side next the wet cloth, rub gently with a dry cloth until the pile is raised 
then lay the velvet on a table and brush with a cloth or soft brush. 

171. • To Take Grease Out of Woolens, Silks, Paper, Floors, Etc.— Grate 
either French or common chalk thickly over the spot, cover with a brown 
paper, set a hot flatiron on it and let it remain until cool ; repeat if necessary. 
See that the iron is not hot enough to burn the paper or cloth. 

172. Silver Polish for Shirts. — One ounce borax, one ounce isinglass, 
two teaspoonfuls white of egg, one teaspoonful white glue ; cook well in two 
quarts of fine starch. Starch in this and dry. Before ironing apply it to 
the cuffs and bosom with a cloth until well dampened and iron immediately 
with a hot glossing iron. 

173. To Clean Black Lace. — Wipe off all the dust carefully with a cam- 
bric handkerchief^ then 'pin it on a board, inserting a pin in each point of lace 
that projects. Sprinkle it all over with table beer and leave it until perfectly 
dry when it will look fresh and new. 

174. To Remove Iron Rust from Clothing. — When rinshig the clothes 
dip the wet finger in oxalic acid and rub on the spot, then dip in salt and rub 
on and then hold on a hot flatiron. Rinse again and rub with the hands. 

175. To Wash Neckties and Other Goods that Fade. — Instead of soap 
use crude ammonia. Use a teaspoonful of spirits of hartshorn to two teacups 
of water for washing neckties. If they are much soiled put through a second 
wash not quite so strong. Lay. the tie on a clean white cloth and wipe it 
gently with another cloth until dry. 

176. To Clean Woolen and Silk Dress Goods. — Any woolen or silk dress 
goods may be washed and rubbed in gasoline without injury. The dirt is 
quickly removed without injuring the colors. Do not use gasoline near a stove 
or light. 

177. To Clean Silk and Thread Gloves. — Put the gloves on the hands 
and wash them in white castile soap suds or in borax water the same as 
though washing the hands; rinse by holding under a stream of water and 
dry with a towel. Keep them on until half dried, remove and fold carefully 
like new gloves and lay between towels under a weight. 

178. - To Wash Delicate Colored Muslins.— Make a thick corn meal mush, 
salt it well and use instead of soap; rinse in one or two waters. It will not 
need starching. 



208 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

179. Washing Laces. — Mix the dry particles of starch with enough cold 
water to make a smooth paste and add cold water until it looks like milk and 
water and boil in a glazed earthen vessel until transparent. While the 
starch is cooling squeeze the laces through soap suds and rinse in clear water. 
If you desire them to be clear white, add a little bluing; if ivoTy white, omit 
the bluing; if yellow-tinged, add a few teaspoonfuls- of clear coffee to the 
starch. Run through the starch, squeeze, roll up in towels, and clap each piece 
separateljy until dry. Pull- gently into shape from time to time and pin upon 
the ironing board. When dry press between tissue paper with a hot iron. 
Punch the openings and pick each loop on the edge with a large pin until it 
looks like new. 

• 130. To Bleach Muslin. — For fifteen yards of musHn dissolve one-half 
pound of chloride of lime in a quart of rain water. Soak the muslin over 
night in warm rain water. Wring out the cloth and put in another half 
tub of warm rain water in which the solution of lime has been poured. Leave 
it in this for about twenty minutes but lift up cloth for an airing every few 
minutes. Rinse in clear rain water. Will not injure the cloth. 

181. To Wash Lace Curtains. — Carefully shake out all the dust and 
put the curtains into tepid water in which is dissolved a little soda and 
without soaking wash at once in several waters. Rinse in water that has 
been well bluejl; also blue the boiled starch deeply and squeeze, but do not 
wring, the curtains. If you have no curtain frames, some sheets may be 
pinned on the carpet in a vacant room and the curtains pinned to them. Have 
the curtains stretched to same^size as before washing. In a few hours they 
will be dry and ready to put up. The curtains should not be soaked and the 
washing and stretching should be done as quickly as possible for curtains 
shrink rapidly. They should be measured before washing so they may be 
stretched to the same size. • 

182. To Keep Cranberries.-^Put them into a keg of water and they 
may be kept all winter. i - 

183. To Keep Celery. — Bury it in dry sand. 

184. To Keep Onions. — The best way is to spread them over the floor. 

185. To Keep Turnips. — Bury them deep in the ground and they will 
k-eep until spring. ' ' 

186. To Keep Lemons — They will keep and also be more juicy if kept 
covered with cold water. The water should be changed every w^ek. 

187. To Keep Parsnips and Salsify-.-— Unless the climate is very severe 
they should be left in the ground all winter,, otherwise they should be buried 
in a deep pit in the garden. 

188. To Keep Parsley Green and Fresh. — Make a strong, boiling hot 
pickle of salt and water and keep it in this for use. If wanted for soups and 
stuffing, hang it up in bunches in a dry attic, with the blossoms down. 

189. Whitewash for Cellars. — Add an ounce of carbolic acid to a gallon 
of whitewash or add copperas to ordinary whitewash until it is yellow. Cop- 
peras is a disinfectant and will drive away vermin. Carbolic acid will prevent 
the odors which taint milk and meat. " 

190. To Keep Cellars Clean.— Remove all vegetables as soon as they 
begin to decay and ventilate well. Sprinkle with chloride of lime, which is 
a disinfectant. 

191. To Keep AIJ Kinds of Herbs.-^Just befon* or while the herbs are 
in blossom gather them on a dry day, tie in bundles and hang up with the 



" WHAT TO DO " AND " HOW TO DO IT." 209 

blossoms downward. When they are perfectly dry those that are to be used 
as medicine should be wrapped in paper and. kept from the air while those 
that are to be used in cooking Should have the leaves picked off, pounded, 
sifted fine and corked tightly in bottles. 

193. To Keep Cabbages. — Cut them off near the head and carry to cellar 
with leaves on, break ofl; the leaves and pack the cabbages in a light box 
with th^ stems upward. When the box is nearly full cover with loose leaves 
and put the lid on to keep rats out. They should, be kept, in a dry cellar. 

193, To iCeep Potatoes. — ^They should -be kept, in a cool, dark place. 
When old and likely to sprout, put them into a basket and lower, them for 
a minute or two 'into boiling water. Let them dry and put in sacks. This 
destroys the germs without injuring the potato and allows it to keep its flavor 
until late. 

' 194. The Temperature at Which Vegetables Should be Kept. — ^Vege- 
tables should be kept at as low a temperature as possible without freezing. 
Apples will stand a very low temperature but sweet potatoes should have 
a dry and warm atmosphere and should be kept well packed in dry leaves. 
Squashes should be kept in a dry place and < as cool as possible without 
freezing. 

195. To Keep Peas for Winter Use.— Shell them and put ipto boiling 
water with a little salt added, boil for €ve minutes. , Drain in a colander and 
afterwards on a cloth, then place in air-tight bottles. When used they should 
be boiled until tender and seasoned with butter. 

J.96. To Keep Apples. — Apples are usually kept on open shelves where 
any that begin decaying may be removed immediately. Sometimes they 'are 
packed in layers of , dry sand but care should be taken that they do not to;jch 
each other. They may also be packed thus in any grain, such as oats, barley, 
etc. If the apples are very choice, each one should be wrapped separately in 
paper and packed in a box. , ' . 

197. To Keep Grapes. — ^The simplest way is to keep them in drawers 
or boxes which hold about twenty-five pounds each, and pile them one above 
another. A better way is to hang a barrel hoop from the. ceiling by three 
cords ; seal the stem with sealing wax, attach a wire to the small end of the 
bunch and hang on the hoop, taking care that no two bunches touch. The 
imperfect grapes should previously have been picked off. The room should 
not be too moist and yet not so dry as to wither the grapes and it should be 
free from frost. 

198. To Keep Vegetables. — If they are to be kept a long time they should 
be pulled on a dry day and the tops should fee cut off and trimmed. Pack 
them in lajhers in barrels or boxes with moss between and over them._ The 
moss keeps them from shriveling and yet keeps out any excess of moisture. 

199. Mucilage. — Dissolve three ounces of gum arabic by putting it iato 
one-half pint of cold water and stirring frequently. 

200. To Remove Coffee Stains. — Mix the yolk of an egg with a little 
water that is slightly warm and use it on the stain like soap. If the stains have 
been on for some time a little alcohol should be added to the egg and water. 

201. To Restore Feathers. — Sprinkle a little ^alt on a hot stove and hold 
the plume in the fumes for a few minutes. 

SOS. To Clean Feathers. — Pour boiling water over some white curd soap 
which has been cut into small pieces and add a little pearlasb. When di«u- 
solved and cool enough for the^hand, put the feathers into it and draw them 
2—14 



210 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

through the hand until all the dirt is squeezed out, then pass them through 
a clean lather with bluing in it. Rinse in cold water with blue to give them 
a good color. Shake the water off by striking them against the hand, then 
dry them by shaking near a fire. To clean black feathers use water and gall 
and wjish and dry in like manner. 

203. To Curl Feathers. — ^When nearly dry draw each flue or fibre over 
the edge of a blunt knife, turning it the way you want it ta curl ; if the feather 
is to be flat, press it between the leaves of a book. 

204. Magic Annihilator. — To make a gross of 8-ounce bottles of annihi- 
lator, take one gallon aqua ammonia, four pounds of best white soap, eight 
ounces of saltpeter and eight gallons of soft water. Pour the water over the 
soap which has previously been shaved fine and boil until dissolved. Let it 
get cold, then add the saltpeter and stir until dissolved. Strain, let the suds 
settle, skim off the dry suds, add the ammonia and bottle and cork at once. 

What It Will Do.— It will remove all kinds of oil and grease from every 
description of wearing apparel, such as coats, vests, pants, dress goods, car- 
pets, etc., and will not injure the finest laces and silks. It works like a charm 
when used as a shampoo, lathers freely and removes all grease and dandruff. 
A cloth wet with it will remove every particle of grease from door knobs, 
window sills, etc. It will remove paint from a board no matter how dry 
or hard the paint may be and will not injure the finest textures. It acts on 
oil or grease, turning it to soap which may be washed out with cold water. 
Nothing can beat it for cleaning brass, copper and silverware. It will posi- 
tively exterminate bed bugs. 

Directions for Using. — To remove grease spots pour some of the Magiv 
Annihilator upon both sides of the article to be cleaned and rub well with a 
clean sponge. If the grease upon carpets and coarse goods is hard and dry, 
use a stiff brush and afterwards wash out with clear, cold water. One appli- 
cation is all that is ever required to remove fresh grease spots but two ap- 
plications may occasionally be necessary to remove old spots. For a shampoo 
mix the Annihilator with an equal quantity of water and apply to the hair 
with a stiff brush, rub well into the pores and wash out with clear water. 
It will give the hair a gloss like silk. For cleaning silver, brass and copper 
mix a little whitening with a small quantity of the Annihilator, apply to the 
metal and rub briskly with a rag. Apply it to beds and other places where 
they frequent and you will soon be rid of the bugs. Many other uses will 
be found for the Magic Annihilator. 

205. To Remove Sealing Wax. — Apply _either alcohol or naphtha to 
the spots with a camel's-hair brush. 

206. To Remove Tar. — Scrape off all the tar possible and then thor- 
oughly wet the place with either melted lard or good salad oil' and let it 
remain for twenty-four hours; if woolen or silk, take out the grease with 
either spirits of wine or ether; if cotton or linen, wash out in strong, warm 
soap suds. 

207. To Make Bluing for Clothes. — Powder one ounce of soft Prussian 
blue and put it into a bottle with a quart of clear rain water, then add one^ 
fourth ounce of oxalic a^id. Use a teaspoonful for a large washing. 

208. Patent Soap. — Three pounds grease, three pints salsoda, one-half 
pint turpentine, two pounds resin soap, forty gallons water ; boil one hour. 
This makes a great soap. 

209. Brilliant Self-Shining Stove Polish.— Take black lead (plumbago), 



" WHAT TO DO " AND " HOW TO DO IT." 211 

finely pulverized, and put intQ 2-ounce wooden boxes ; label them neatly and 
retail for 10 or IS cents per box, or wholesale at $6.00 per hundred. It costs 
three cents per box to prepare. 

Directions. — This polish requires no mixing which is so disagreeable 
to the housewife. Dip a damp woolen cloth into the box and apply tb the 
stove, then polish with a dry cloth. It will give a very beautiful polish. 
Stove polish is a necessity in every home and if you have the best, as this is, 
you will make a sale at every house. Step up and polish a small place on 
the stove and the sale is made. If the stove is not convenient, use a piece of 
wood, a sheet of paper, a potato or almost any article and you will have a 
lustre like a burnished mirror. 'This is a great invention and will make money 
for those who push the sale. 

210, To Clean Gold Chains, Etc.— Let the article lay in a solution of 
caustic potash until all the dirt is removed. 

211. To Kill Carpet Bugs.-^Put one tablespoonful of corrosive sublimate 
into a quart of hot water and saturate the floors and cracks in the walls. 
If the carpet is to be sponged use a weaker solution. It will be found a sure 
treatment. 

' 212. To Sweeten Rancid Butter. — ^Use 15 drops of chloride of lime to a 
pint of cold water and wash the butter thoroughly with it until it has touched 
every particle ; then work the butter over in clear, cold water. 

— 213. Liquid Glue. — Dissolve half a pound of best glue in three-fourths 
pint of water and add one-half pint of vinegar. This glue is always ready for 
use without warming. 

214. Concrete. — Add 15 barrows of sand to 8 barrows of slacked lime 
that is well deluged with water. Do not use river or beach sand as it 
absorbs moisture. Mix to a creamy consistency and add 60 barrows of coarse 
gravel and work well. Stones 9 or 10 inches in diameter may be put into 
this mixture and it will become as hard as rock. 

215. Patent Blacking. — One gallon alcohol, 1% pounds gum shellac, 1 
ounce sulphuric acid; let stand for 48. hours, then add Yi pound ivory black. 
Let stand 24 hours, then carefully pour off the top. This is for the polishing 
of a.11 kinds of leather and is waterproof. A four-ounce bottle retails for $1.00 
and $50.00 was the original cost of this recipe. Of course it may be made in 
smaller quantities by using the same proportions. 

216. Axle Grease. — One pound tallow, Yi pound black lead, % pound 
castor oil; melt the tallow; add the other ingredients and rub all together 
until cold and well mixed. 

217. To Find the Number of Bushels in a Bin. — Multiply together the 
three dimensions in feet to get the number of cubic feet and deduct % and 
you will have approximately the number of bushels in the bin. 

218. To Measure. Hay. — Fifteen to eighteen cubic yards of hay well 
settled in mows or .stacks make a ton; 20 to 25 cubic yards make a ton when 
loaded on a wagon from mow or stack; 25 cubic yards of dry clover make 
a ton. To find the number of tons in a rnow multiply the length, width and 
Ifcight in yards and divide by 15 if well settled and by 18 if not so well 
Settled. 

219. Apple Tree Louse^ — Lime and tobacco juice mixed together will 
kill them. ' 

220. Army Worm, — A ditch around the field to be protected will arrest 
their progress so that they may be killed by covering with earth, by crushing 



m THE PEOPLE'S HOME kECiPE BOOK. 

with rollers, pouring coal oil in ditch or burning straw over them. The side 
of the ditch next the field should be perpendicular or sloping under so they 
cannot easily crawl out. 

221. Bark Lice. — Use a strong lye made from wood ashes or diluted 
soft Boap or a mixture of lime, whitewash and kerosene. If the latter is used 
there should be a pint of kerosene to a gallon of whitewash. 

222. Apple Tree Borers. — During the spring or early summer the trees 
should ,be washed with strong soap suds to kill the borers. 

223. Cinch Bugs. — ^They may be destroyed with a mixture of soap suds 
and kerosene. Make the suds by using one pound of soap to ten gallons of 
water, then use equal parts of the suds and kerosene to make the emulsion. 

224. Colorado Beetle or Potato Bug. — Dust the vines with Paris green, 
London purple or carbonate of lime. 

225. Com Moth. — Fill up all cracks and sweep the floors and walls clean 
before storing the corn. To destroy the moths, fill all cracks and then sprinkle 
the floor with a mixture of strong white wine vinegar and salt before laying 
up the corn. If the moth has deposited its eggs on the grain salt may be mixed 
with it. 

236. Grain Weevil. — ^The granary should be fumigated thoroughly with 
burning sulphur before the grain is stored and again in about two months. 
327. Caterpillars. — These may" be destroyed with powdered hellebore. 

228. Hessian Fly. — Quicklime scattered over the field immediately after 
the grain is cut will destroy the pupse. It is well to thresh as soon as possible 
after the grain is cut then to scatter the straw over the stubble and burn. An- 
other way is to turn the cattle on the young wheat while the ground is yet 
frozen and let them eat the wheat close to the ground. 

229. Strawberry Worms. — Poultry will destroy them. They should be 
turned into the patch before the berries are formed. Spray the plants with 
one pound of white hellebore in twenty gallons of water. 

230. To Cut or Break Glass in Any Shape. — File a notch in the edge of 
the glass at the place you wish to begin to break from ; then put a red' hot 
iron on the notch and draw it in the direction you wish the glass to break. 
If the iron be drawn slowly a crack will follow it. Another ;way is to hold 
the glass level under water and cut with a pair of shears. 

231. To Bore Holes in Glass.— Any hard steel tool will easily cut glass 
if it be kept moist with camphor dissolved in turpentine. A drill may be 
used or, if that be not available, the tool may be held in the hand. A window 
glass may be easily sawed with a watch spring saw if this solution be used. 

333. To Clean Tobacco Pipes.-^Pour alcohol into the bowl and allow 
it to run out of the stem. This will thoroughly clean and sweeten the pipe. 

233. To Petrify Wood. — Mix equal parts of rock alum, gem salt, white 
vinegar, chalk and peebles powder ; after the ebullition has ceased throw any 
piece of Wood or other porous substance into the solution and it will petrify. 

234. To Remove Blood Stains. — Steep the article in lukewarm water. 
If pepsin is at hand apply it after first softening the spots in lukewarm water. 

235. To Remove Tar, Wagon Grease, Mixtures of Fat, Carbon and 
Acetic Acid. — If the spots be on white goods apply soap and oil of turpentine, 
alternating with streams of water. If the spots are on colored cottons or 
woolens, rub in with lard ; let it lie ; soap ; let lie ; and proceed, alternating with 
oil of turpentine and water. Treat silks the same only use benzine in place 
of turpentine. 



" WHAT TO DO " Al^D " HOW TO DO IT." 213 

236. Black Ink, Copying or Writing Fluid.— Rain water, one gallon; 
brown sugar, one-eighth pound; gum arabic, one-eighth pound ; powdered nut- 
galls, three-eighths pound ; clean copperas, one-eighth pound ; bruise and mix, 
then let stand for 10 days, shaking occasionally ; strain. If not used as a copy- 
ing ink but one-fourth of the sugar or gum is needed as it will then flow more 
freely. This ink is fine for records and deeds for it may be read hundreds 
of years hence. 

DYEING AND COLORING. 

General Remarks. — Every article to be dyed should be perfectly clean. 
They should be washed thoroughly with soap and then rinsed. To prevent 
spotting, the goods should be dipped into warm water just before they are 
put into the various coloring preparations. After the article is dyed it should 
be aired awhile, then well rinsed and hung up to dry. Cotton goods should 
first be bleached if they are to be dyed a light color. Never wring silk or 
merino dresses. Use soft water and where the quantity is not mentioned 
enough should be used to well cover the goods. 

COTTON GOODS; 

237. Black. — For 5 pounds goods take 3 pounds (wood and- bark to- 
gether) of sumac and boil one-half hour and let the goods steep in this for 
12 hours; then dip for half an hour in lime water and let drip for an hour; 
now add half a pound of copperas to the sumac liquor and dip the goods 
again in this for an hour and then for one-fourth hour in the lime water. 
M^ke another dye by boiling 2% pounds of logwood for an hour and dip the 
goods in this for three hours, then add 2 ounces bi-chromate of potash and 
dip for another hour. Wash the goods in cold water and dry in the sh^de. 

238. Brown for Cotton, Woolen or Silk. — For coloring 5 pounds of goods 
dissolve two ounces of alum and one pound of catechu in enough hot water ' 
to wet the goods. Put this solution into a tin boiler or a brass kettle on 
the stove and put in the goods when it is boiling hot and remove from the 
fire. You should have ready 4 ounces of bi-chromate of potash dissolved in 
hot water in a wooden pail. Drain the goods from the catechu and then dip 
them alternately into the bi-chromate of potash and catechu until of the 

desired shade. -^ , , , . . 

239. Sky Blue for Cotton or Silk.— Dissolve two ounces of blue vitriol 
in one gallon of water and dip the goods for fifteen minutes, then put through 

lime water. , . . . - 

240. niue.— For 5 pounds of goods dissolve 4 ounces of copperas in 3 
or 4 gallons of water and soak the goods thoroughly, then drain and put them 
mto a solution of 2 ounces of prussiate of potash in 3 or 4 gallons of water. 
Lift the goods and put them to drain, then pour 1/^ ounce oil of vitriol into the 
prussiate of potash solution, stirring carefully and pouring in but a few drops 
at a time. Put the goods in this solution until of the desired shade then rinse 
in clear water and hang up to dry. 

241. Yellow. — For 5 pounds of goods dissolve 1 pound of sugar of lead 
in enough water to thoroughly wet the goods and in the same quantity of 
water in another vessel dissolve y% pound of bi-chromate of potash. Dip the 



214 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

S;«m1s well and drain in each alternately until of the desired shade, then 
rins* and hang up to dry. 

aiB. Orange. — Color the goods yellow as given elsewhere but before 
rinsing dip them into strong, hot lime water. 

243. Green. — First color blue as given elsewhere, then proceed as in 
yellow, also given elsewhere. 

244. Red. — Put % teacupful of muriate of tin into enough water to cover 
the goods well, bring to a boil, put in the goods and leave for an hour, stir- 
ring often, then remove them and empty the kettle. Put 1 pound of nic- 
wood into the kettle with clean water and steep for half an hour at hand 
heat, then put in the goods and slowly increase the heat for an hour but 
do not boil. Air the goods and dip an hour as before. Wash without soap. 

WOOLEN GOODS. 

245. Chrome Black. — For 5 pounds of goods dissolve 6 ounces of blue 
vitriol in enough boiling water to cover the goods. Dip the goods 45 minutes, 
airing frequently, then remove. Make a dye by boiling 3 pounds of logwood 
for half an hour ; dip the goods for 46 minutes, air and dip again for the same 
length of time. Wash the goods in strong suds. The sun will not fade this. 

246. Brown. — Color the same as for cotton goods. 

247. Blue. — For 2 pounds of goods take sufficient water to cover and add 
5 ounces of alum and 3 ounces of cream of tartar and boil the goods in this 
for an hour. Now boil the goods, until the color suits, in warm water con- 
taining more or less extract of indigo, according to the color desired. 

248. Yellow. — For 5 pounds of goods make a solution by adding 2 ounces 
of alum and 3 ounces 6f bi-chromate of potash to enough water to color the 
goods and boil them in this for half an hour; lift and air until well cooled 
and drained, then work for half an hour in a bath with 5 pounds of fustic. 
Wash and hang up to dry. 

249. Green. — For each pound of goods put 3^ ounces of alum and 1 
pound of fustic into sufficient water to cover goods; steep until the strength 
IS out before putting in the goods ; then soak until a good yellow color is ob- 
tained ; then remove the chips and add extract of indigo or chemic until of 
the desired color. 

250. Scarlet. — For One pound of goods take sufficient water to cover 
and boil in it Yz ounce of pulverized cochineal, % ounce cream of tartar and 
ZYz ounces muriate of tin; put in the goods and work briskly for 10 or 15 
minutes, then stir goods slowly while boiling 1^ hours. Wash and hang in 
the shade to dry. 

251. Crimson. — Make a bath of 6 ounces of dry cochineal, 1 pound cochi. 
neal paste, 1 pound of tartar and 1 pint of proto-chloride of tin. Work the 
goods ia this bath for an hour, wash out and hang up to dry. 

252. Orange. — For 5 pounds of goods take sufficient water to cover, 4 
ounces argal, 6 tablespoonfuls muriate of tin; boil and dip 1 hour, then add 
1 cup of madder and dip for half an hour. A much brighter color will be 
obtained by using 2 ounces of cochineal instead of the madder. 

253. Pink. — Fqr 3 pounds of goods use 3 ounces of alum ; boil anc2 dip 
the goods for an hour ; then add to the solution 4 ounces cream of tartar and* 
1 ounce of pulverized cochineal and dip the goods, while boiling, until the 
desired shade is obtained. 



" WHAT TO DO " AND " HOW TO DO IT." 215 

SILK GOODS. 

264. _ Black. — For 5 pounds of goods make a dye by boiling 3 pounds of 
logwood in enough water to cover goods. Work the gfoods in bi-chromate of 
potash which is not quite to the boiling point, then dip them in the logwood 
solution in the same way. 

255. Brown. — Color the same as for cotton and woolen goods given else- 
where. 

256. Sky Blue. — Proceed as for cotton goods given elsewhere. 

357. Light Blue. — Dissolve % tablespoonful of alum in a cup of warm 
water and add to a gallon of cold water, then add a teaspoonful of chemic at 
a time until the desired shade is obtained. The more chemic is used, the 
larker will the color be. 

258. Orange. — For one pound of goods use a pound each of soda and 
annotto ; repeat if desired. 

259. Green. — For 1 pound of goods boil 8 ounces of yellow oak bark for 
^ hour J turn off the liquor from the bark and add 6 ounces of alum ; let stand 
until cold ; while this is being made color the goods in the blue dye-tub a light 
blue; dry and wash; then dip in the oak and alum dye. Warm the dye a 
little if it does not take well. 

260. Yellow. — For 1 pound of goods make a solution of % ounce sugar 
of lead and 3 ounces alum and let the goods stand over night in it ; take out 
and drain. Make another dye with 1 pound of fustic; dip in this until the 
desired color is obtained. 

261. Crimson. — Dip 1 pound of goods in a solution made with 3 ounces 
of alum. This should be at hand heat. Take out and drain while making 
a new dye by boiling for 10 minutes 2 ounces of bruised nut-galls, 3 ounces 
cochineal and Y^ ounce of cream of tartar in one pail of water. When this is a 
little cool, begin to dip the goods, raising the heat to a boil. Dip for an hour; 
wash arid hang up to dry. 

262. A Quick and Easy Way to Compute Interests-Allow 30 days for 
each month and multiply the amount by the number of days. 

The result divided by 60 gives the interest at 6 per cent. 

The result divided by 45 gives the interest at 8 per cent. 

The result divided by 40 gives the interest at 9 per cent. 

The result divided by 36 gives the interest at 10, per cent. 

The result divided by 30 gives the interest at 12 per cent. 
Example. — $200.00 for 3 months and 10 days, or 100 days, is 20000 ; 
divided by 40 gives $5.00, which is the interest at 9 per cent; or divided by 
60 gives $3,333, interest at 6 per cent. etc. To find the interest at 5 per cent, 
first find the interest at 6 per cent, then deduct 1/6. Or add 1/6 to find the 
interest at 7 per cent. etc. 

263. To Find the Number of Gallons in a Barrel or Cask. — Add the 
greatest and the smallest diameters in inches together and divide by 3 and this 
will be the average diameter. Multiply this number by itself, then by the 
length of the barrel in inches and then by 34 and cut off the four right-hand 
figures. This is approximately the number of gallons. 

Example. — ^A cask is 28 inches in diameter at the head and 32 inches at 
the bung and is 36 inches in length ; 28 plus 33 equals 60, divided by 3 equals 
30, or the average diameter; 30 times 30 equals 900; 36 times 900 equals 33400; 



816 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

34 times 32400 equals 1101600 and cutting off the four right-hand figures 
leaves 110 as the number of gallons, 

264. To Find the Number of Gallons in a Round Tanki— Multiply the 
diameter in feet by itself (called squaring the diameter), multiply the product 
by the depth in feet, then multiply by 6 and the result is the approximate 
number of gallons in the tank. 

Example. — A tank is 5 feet in diameter and 7 feet deep; 5 times 5 equals 
25, 7 times 25 equals 175, 6 times 175 equals 1050 gallons. 

265. How to Find the N-umber of Common Bricks in a Wall pr Building. 
■^Multiply together the length, height and thickness in feet and multiply 
this result, by 20 and you will have the number of common bricks iii the wall. 
Find the numbei in each wall and add these together and you will have the 
number in the building. 

266 Table of Avoirdupois Weight. — 

i37% grains equal 1 ounce. 

16 ounces "equal 1 pound. 

25 pounds equal 1 quarter. 
2000 pounds equal 1 ton. 
2240 pounds equal 1 long ton. 

267. Miscellaneous Weights. — 

100 lbs. nails equal 1 keg. 

196 lbs. flour equal 1 barrel. 

200 lbs. beef or pork equal 1 barrel. 
280 lbs. N. Y. salt equal 1 barrel. 

268 Table of Troy Weight.— 

24 grains make 1 pennyweighf 

20 pennyweights make 1 ounce. 
^ 12 ounces make 1 pound. 

480 grains make 1 ounce. 

The troy pound contains 5760 grains while the avoirdupois pound contains 7000 
grains. If a merchant sells you a pound of tea by troy weight he cheats you, but if he 
sells you an ounce by troy weight he cheats himself out of 42% grains. 

269, Table of Apothecaries Weight.— 

1 drop equals 1 grain. 

20 grains make 1 scruple, which is equal to % teaspoonful. 
3 scruples ni'ake 1 drachm, which is equal to 1 teaspoonfuL 
8 drachms make 1 ounce, which is equal to 8 tablespoonfuls. 

12 ounces make 1 pound. 

270. Table of Fluid Measures.— 

60 drops '' make 1 fluid drachm, or 1 small teaspbonful. 

8 fluid drachms make 1 fluid ounce, or 2 tablespoonfuls, or % gill. 
16 fluid ounces niake 1 pint, or 4 gills. 
1 pmt equals 1 pound in weiglit except with Ether, Glycer- 

ine, Sulphuric acid, Chloroform and a few 
others. 

•271. A Handy Table.— 

1 tablespoonful equals 4 teaspoonfuls. 
1 teacup equals 4 fluid ounces. 

1 coffee cup equals 6 fluid ounces. 
. 1 wine-glass equals from 2 to 4 tablespoonfuls. 

272. Table of Liquid Measure.— 

4 gills make 1 pint 
2 pints make 1 quart. 
4 quarts make 1 gallon. 



" WHAT TO DO " AND " HOW TO DO IT." 217 

273. How Clothes Are Cleaned by Those Who Make it a Business.— In 
cleaning establishments, silks and woolen clothes are immersed in gasoline 
and dipped up and down,' and especially the soiled parts are rubbed with ivory 
soap. They are then rinsed in clean gasoline. The odor is removed by shak- 
ing for fifteen or twenty minutes or by hanging on a line where there is a 
good breeze. Don't use gasoline near a light or stove. 

274. To Clean Dark Furs. — Put some new bran into a pan on the stove 
and heat very hot, stirring so as not to let burn. Rub this thoroughly into 
the fur several times then shake and brush it till it is free from dust. 

275. To Clean Light Furs. — Lay the fur upon a table and with a flannel 
rub it with bran that is slightly moistened with warm waten Rub until 
dry then with book muslin apply dry bran. Dry flour will do instead of the 
wet bran. When through rubbing with the bran or flour rub magnesia the 
wrong way into the fur then shake and brush. 

276. To Clean Straw Hats. — First sponge the hat with a mixture of 2% 
drachms sodium hyposulphite, 1 drachm glycerine, 2% drachms alcohol, 2^/4 
ounces of water; then hang the hat in the cellar or other moist room for 
24 hours ; then apply a solution of V^ drachm citric acid, 21^ drachms alcohol, 
3 ounces of water and again hang in a moist room for 24 hours. The hat 
should then be gone over with a flatiron that is not too hot. 

277. Cut Worms. — Make a little ring of either lime or wood ashes about 
the plant as a protection against cut worms. 

278. Onion Maggots. — The best known remedy is to put chimney soot 
in the drills. . 

279. Plant Lice. — A tea made from tobacco, or tobacco smoke, will kill 
them. ' 

280. Squash Bugs. — Put some white, shingles on the ground under the 
vines and the bugs will collect under them and may be destroyed in the 
morning. 

281. Slugs. — In England the gardeners drop a handful of bran every 
8 or 10 feet along the garden walks. The slugs collect on these little heaps 
of bran and may be swept up in the morning with a broom and dust pan. 

282. Scale. — Boil 1 gallon of barley in water, pour off t^e liquid (the 
grain will do to feed the chickens) and add quicklime to it until about as 
thick as paint. When cold add 1 pound of lampblack and mix for a long 
time then add % pound flowers of sulphur and 1 pint of alcohol. Brush 
the bark of the tree with a stiff brush to remove the moss and; then apply 
the liquid with a paint brush. 

283. Canker Worms. — Spread tar, or tar and molasses, on a cloth and 
bind about the trunk of the tree near the ground. Do this early in the spring 
and the female worm will be kept from crawling up the tree. Apply kero- 
sene below the cloth to kill the eggs. 

284. Grubs. — ^Apply soap to the trunks of the apple and peach trees dur- 
ing May. In the fall cut out all that have entered the bark. 

285. Cucumber Beetles.— About the only way to keep these away is to 
cover the plants with netting. 

286. Celety Pest or Little Negro Bug.— Sprinkle the plants vdtli a 
mixture of 1 tablespoonful of crude carbolic acid to 2 gallons of water. If pre- 
ferred, a teacupfuf of the acid may be mixed with a bushel of either air- 
slacked lime of land plaster and the plants dusted with this. 



318 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

HANDY TABLES FOR COOKS. 

EGGS. 
8 large, or 10 medium sized, eggs equal 1 pound. 

BUTTER. 

1 lump the size of a medium egg equals 2 ounces. 

1 tablespopnful of soft butter, well filled, equals 1 ounces 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls of soft butter equal 1 teacupful. 

2 teacupfuls of packed soft butter equal 1 pound. 

1 pint of well packed soft butter equals 1 pound. 

FLOUR. 
a heaping teaspoonfuls equal 1 heaping tablespoonful. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls equal 1 ounce. 

5 heaping tablespoonfuls equal 1 teacupful. y 
5 teacupfuls of sifted flour equal 1 pound. 

31/^ level teacupfuls of corn meal equal 1 quart. 

1 quart of sifted flour equals 1 pound. 

SUGAR. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls equal 1 heaping tablespoonful. 

1 heaping tablespoonful of granulated, best brown, or A coffee equals 1 ounce. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls of powdered equal 1 ounce. 
2 helping teacupfuls of A coffee equal 1 pound. 

2 level teacupfuls of granulated equal 1 pound. 

2 level coffee-cupfuls of powdered equal 1 pound. 

2y2 level teacupfuls of best brown equal 1 pound. - 

2% level teacupfuls of powdered equal 1 pound. 

114 level coffee-cupfuls of granulated equal 1 pound. 

1 pint of A coffee equals 12 ounces. 

1 heaping pint of granulated equals 14 ounces. 

1 quart of powdered equals 1 pound and 7 ounces. 

1 quart of granulated equals 1 pound and 9 ounces. 

1 quart of any kind equals 4 teacupfuls. 

1 teacupful equals 8 fluid ounces or 2 gills. 

1 teacupful or 16 tablespoonfuls equal % pint or 2 gills. 

A common-sized, tumbler holds % pint. 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKS. 

The time will vary with the quality of the article, 

etc. The general average is here given. Those Time of 

marked "a" mihutes to pound. How Cooked. Cooking. 

Hr. Min. 

Apples, sweet and rnellow Raw 

Apples, sour and hard Raw 

Asparagus Boiled 13 to 30 

Beans with green corn Boiled 45 

Beans (pod) Boiled 1 00 

Beef Roasted a 25 

Beefsteak Fried 15 

Beefsteak Brofled 15 



Time of 
Digestion. 
Hr. Uio. 


1 


50 


2 


50 


2 


30 


3 


45 


2 


30 


3 


00 


4 


00 


3 


00 



3 30 

4 30 
2 30 



" WHAT TO DO " AND "HOW TO DO IT." 219 

Beef salted Boiled a 35 4 15 

Bass, fresh ; Broiled 20 3 00 

Beets, old Boiled 4 30 4 00 

Beets, young Boiled 2 OO 3 45 

Bread, wheat Baked 1 00 3 30 

Bread, corn Baked 45 3 15 

Butts'" Melted 

Cabbage Boiled 1 oo 

Cabbage . Raw , ,„ 

Cabbage and vinegar Raw 2 00 

Cauliflower Boiled lto2 '.'.'.'.'.'.'. 2 30 

Cake, sponge Baked 45 2 30 

Carrot, orange Boiled . 1 00 3 , 15 

Cheese, old Raw 3 30 

Codfish,^ry and whole Boiled a 15 2 00 

Chicken Fricasseed 1 00 3 45 

Custard (one quart) Baked 3 00 2 43 

Duck, wild Roasted 1 00 4 50 

Duck, tame Roasted 1 30 4 00 

Dumpling, apple Boiled 1 00 3 00 

Eggs, soft Boiled 03 3 00 

Eggs, hard Boiled 10 3 3o 

Eggs Fried 05 3 30 

Eggs Raw 2 00 

Fowls, domestic Roasted 1 00 4 00 

Fowls, domestic Boiled 1 00 4 00 

-Gelatine. Boiled 2 30 

Goose, wild' Roasted a 20 2 30 

Lamb Boiled a 20 2 30 

Meat and vegetables Hashed 30 2 30 

Milk Boiled 2 oo 

Milk Raw 2 15 

Mutton Roasted a 25 3 15 

Mutton Broiled 20 3 00 

Onions Boiled lto2 3 00 

Oysters Stewed 05 3 30 

Oysters Roasted 3 15 

Pig's feet Soused 1 oo 

Parsnips Boiled 1 00 3 00 

Pork Roasted a 30 5 15 

Pork : Boiled a 25 4 30 

Pork ". Raw 4 15 

Pork Fried 4 15 

Pork Broiled 20 3 15 

Potatoes Boiled 30 3 30 

Potatoes Baked 45 3 30 

Potatoes Roasted 45 2 30 

Rice Boiled 20 1 oo 

Salmon, fresh Boiled 08 1 45 

Sausage .' Broiled 20 3 30 

Sausage Fried 20 4 00 

Soup, chicken ^ Boiled 2 00 3 00 

Soup, vegetable Boiled 1 00 4 00 

Soup, oyster Boiled 3 30 

Soup, mutton Boiled 3 30 3 30 

Spinach Boiled 1 to 2 2 30 

l^pioca Boiled 1 30 2 00 

Tomatoes Fresh 1 00 2 30 

Tomatoes Canned 30 2 30 

Trout and salmon, fresh, boiled or Fried 30 1 30 

Turkey, boiled or ....Roasted a 20 2 30 

Turnips Boiled 45 3 30 

Veal Broiled 20 4 00 

Venison Steak Broiled 20 1 35 



830 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

SUPPLEMENT. 
(Additional Recipes.) 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. ^ 221 

SUPPLEMENT. 
(Additional Redlpes.) 



223 THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 

SUPPLEMENT. 
(Additional Recipes.) 



CULINARY INDEX. 



For Index of " The Peo^e's Home Recipes for Every-Day Use " see page 226. 

MRS. KIRK'S DEPARTMENT. 



A 

Accurate Records, Home Expenditures 

AND 2 

B 

Baking 6 

BEVERAGES 80 

■ Apple Lemonade 85 

Chocolate 82 

Cocoa 83 

Drip Coffee 82 

- Elderberry Wine 86 

Fruit Punch 84 

Fruit Syrups 83 

Ginger Ale 83 

How To Make Coffee 8i 

Lemon Syrup 84 

Mint Lemonade 85 

Mint Punch 85 

BREAD MAKING 7 

Buckwheat Cakes 13 

Qover Leaf Rolls 10 

Corn Bread 10 

Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 12 

Delicious Brown Bread 10 

Ejiglish Muffins 12 

Gluten Bread 11 

Graham and Date Bread 9 

Graham Bread 9 

Graham Gems 13 

Pop Overs 12 

Sour Milk Gingerbread 11 

Very Best Bread 8 

C 

CAKES 14 

Afternoon Marguerites 17 

Chocolate Icing 22 

Cream Filling or Boiled Icing 20 

Easy Angel Cake 20 

Fruit Cake 18 

Fruit Drops 16 

Golden Loaf Cake 20 

Lady Baltimore Cake 19 

Layer Cake - 15 



CAKES — Continued. 

Lemon Cookies '. 18 

Lemon Sponge Cake ■. ig 

Maple Cream Filling 22 

Maple Snow Cake 15 

Marshmallow Filling 21 

May Cakes 16 

Mocha Filling 21 

Sunshine Cake 21 

Tea Cakes 17 

White Loaf Cake 17 

CANNING OF FRUITS AND VEGE- 
TABLES 90 

Asparagus and String Beans 92 

Canned Pineapple 94 

Canning Large Fruits (Peaches, Pears, 

Apples, Pineapples, Quinces, Etc.).. 92 

Com 93 

Peas, Lima Beans or Beefs 93 

Raspberries and AH Small Fruits 91 

Tomatoes 94 

CHAFING DISH COOKERY 86 

Chicken a la King 90 

Chicken Hollandaise 89 

Creamed Oysters 87 

Oysters with Mushrooms 87 

Shrimp Wiggle 88 

Shrimps a la Poulette 88 

Sweetbreads Saute with French Peas 89 

The Queen's Toasted Cheese 8g 

Tomato Rarebit 90 

Welsh Rarebit 88 

Cooking, Housekeeper's Science of i 

Cooking Vegetables, General- Time for 5 

Creed, Housekeeper's i 

D 

DESSERTS 68 

Apple or Fruit Cups 79 

Apple Rice Pudding' 78 

Apple Tapioca 79 

Baked ' Peaches and Pears 76 

Custard Pie 70 

Fig Pudding 80 

Fruit Whips 72 

Graham Pudding 77 



223 



224 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



DESSERTS — Continued. 

Jellied Apricots 80 

Lemon Cheese Cakes 78 

Lemon Cream Sherbet 7^ 

Lemon Jelly 71 

Lemon Pie i 71 

Maple Ice Cream 75 

Maple Mousse 76 

Marlboro Tarts 77 

Marshmallow Pudding 72 

Miiice Meat 74 

Peach Tart 77 

Plain Pastry 69 

Plum Pudding 73 

Prune Fluff 79 

Pumpkin Pie 74, 78 

Rhubarb Pie (Also Fresh Fruit Pies) 70 

Rice Pudding 73 

Strawberry Shortcake 72 

Vanilla Ice Cream i 75 

Division of Labor, Organization and . . 3 

Domestic Science in the Home i 

E 

EGGS 37 

Bread Omelet 41 

Curried Eggs 41 

Deviled Eggs 39 

Eggs a la Suisse 41 

Eggs Au Gratin 42 

Eggs Scrambled with Pimentos 40 

Eggs Steamed 37 

Fried Stuflfed Eggs r. . . 39 

Ham and Eggs 38 

Luncheon Eggs 39 

Plain Omelet 40 

Poached Eggs 38 

Equipment, Laundry 5 

Etiquette, Table 6 

Every Day Schedxjle, . Housekeeper's. . . S 

Expenditures, Home 2 

F 

Foods 30 

Fruits and Vegetables, The Canning of 90 



Jelly Making, Preserves and 95 



K 

Kitchen, and Utensils, A Well 

Equippei) 3 

Kitchen Utensils r 4 

L 

Labor, Organization and Division of.. 3 

Laundry Equipment 5 

M 

MEATS 22 

Chicken Fricassee 28 

Crown Roast of Lamb .'. 27 

Ham Baked in Cider 27 

' Irish Stew with Dumplings 24 

Loin of Veal 26 

Pan Broiled Steak 26 

Pot Roast 24 

Roast Beef (No. i) , 23 

Roast Beef (No. 2) 23 

Roast Duck and Goose 29 

Roast Turkey with Dressing 28 

Steak and Vegetables, En Casserole. . . 25 

To Broil Steaks or Chops with Gas... 25 

MEAT SUBSTITUTES 30 

Baked Beans 33 

Breslau of Meat . ■, : 31 

Chicken Sandwiches 36 

Children's School Sandwiches and 

Luncheons 34 

Foods ; . 30 

Ham Sandwiches .• 36 

Ham Souffle 32 

Lenten Eggs on Codfish Cakes 33 

" No Meat " Menus 30 

Picnic Patties 31 

Salad Sandwiches » 35 

Substitutes for Meat 30 

The Real Spaghetti a la Italianue 32 



Organization and Division of Labor.. 



General Time for CookinS Vegetables S 

H 

Home, Domestic Science in the i 

Home Expenditures and Accurate Rec- 
ords 2 

Household Management, What Con- 
stitutes I 

Housf-keeper's Creed .■ .• i 

Housekeeper's Every Day Schedule. . . 5 

Housekeeper's Science of Cooking i 

Housekeeping a Profession 2 



P 

PICKLING , loi 

Chili Sauce 104 

Chow Chow - 102 

Cucumber Sauce , 103 

Genuine Longfellow Pickles 104 

Green Tomato Pickles 102 

Oiled Pickles , 103 

Pepper Relish ', 104 

Watermelon, Peach or Pear Picklesr. loi 

PRESERVING AND JELLY MAKING 95 

Apple Jelly, Quinces or Crab Apples.. 100 

Blackberry Jam ' 96 



CULINARY INDEX. 



235 



PRESERVING AND JELLY MAKING 
— Continued. 

iJurrant Jam 96 

Grape Juice ' g6 

Mixed Jelly 100 

Quince Preserves g8 

Rhubarb Jam 97 

San Diego Orange Marmalade 99 

Small Fruit Jelly 99 

Spiced Currants 98 

Strawberry Jam (Also Black and Red 

Raspberry) 97 

Pbofession, Housekeeping a 2 

R 

Records, Accurate a 

S 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 62 

Chicken Salad 63 

^ Cooked Salad Dressing 64 

French Dressing 64 

June 13th. Salad 67 

4ay Salad 66 

Mayonnaise Dressing 63 

Pc^ato Salad 64 

Salad a la Kirk 60 

Salads Served with French Dressing. . 63 

Thanksgiving Salad 65 

Tomato Crown Salad 68 

Tomato Jelly 67 

SAUCES 42 

Apple Sauce ; 46 

Chocolate Sauce for Ice Cream 44 

Cranberry Jelly 46 

Hard Sauce 45 

Hollandaise Sauce ...^ 44 

Lemon Sauce 45 

Mint Sauce 45 

Mushroom Sauce 44 

White Sauce 43 

Schedule, Housekeeper's Every Day., s 

Science in the Home, Domestic i 

Science of Cooking, Housekeeper's ... i 

Serving, Table Setting and 6 

SOUPS 46 

Cream of Asparagus 50 

Cream of Pea .> 49 

Cream of Tomato 49 

Good Vegetable 48 

Mock Oyster So 

Pop Com 51 

Soup Stock 4> 

Tomato Soup with Vegetables 48 



Substantial Meals Without Meat... 30 

Substitutes for Meat 30 

T 

Table 5 

Table Etiquette [ 6 

Table Setting and Serving 6 

Time for Cooking Vegetables, General 5 

U 

Utensils, A Well Equipped Kitchen 

AND 3 

Utensils, Kitchen 4 

V 

VEGETABLES 51 

Asparagus Tips in Pattie CasSs 55 

Baked Stuffed Tomatoes 55 

Boiled Cucumbers 60 

Boiled Rice 5a 

CarrQts a la Hollandaise 59 

Corn Fritters 58 

Creamed Cabbage 57 

Escalloped Corn 58 

Escalloped Tomatoes 60 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 56 

Green Corn 57 

Hashed Brown Potatoes 53 

Lima Beans 54 

Mashed Turnips 50 

Plain Asparagus 54 

Potatoes Au Gratin 54 

Potatoes O'Brien 53 

Rice Croquettes 53 

Sour Cream Slaw 57 

Spinach — Boiled and Creamed 62 

Stuffed Egg Plant ."T. 61 

Stuffed Sweet Peppers 61 

Sweet Potatoes En Casserole 56 

Tomatoes Du Barry 60 

Tomatoes on Toast _ 59 

Tomatoes Stuffed with Corn 58 

Vegetables, General Time for Cooking 5 
Vegetables, The Canning of Fruits 

AND 90 



W 

What Constitutes Hoijsehold Man- 



agement 



See next page for Index of " The People's Home Recipes for Every-Day Use." 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPES FOR EVERY-DAY USE. 



For Index of Mrs. Kirk's Department, see page 223. 



A 

Alpaca, To Clean 206, 207 

Apple Koker 118 

Apple Tree Borers . , 212 

Apple TrEe Louse 21 1 

Apples, To Keep 209 

Army Worm 211 

Art of Candy Making, The 154 

Axle Grease ; . . . 211 

B 

Baking Bread 107 

Baking Powders 108 

Bark Lice 212 

Barrel or Cask, To Find the Number 

OF Gallons in 215 

Bed Bugs, To Extermtnate i^ 

BEVERAGES 181 

A Cranberry- Drink , 183 

A Grapefruit Cocktail 182 

Blackberry Wine 183 

Cherry-Shrub : 184 

Christmas Temperance Punch ...".... 184 

Comnmnion Wine .^ 182 

Cottage Beer 184 

Cream Toddy 183 

Dandelion Wine I^I 

Elder Blossom Wine r 182 

Farmer's Soda 184 

Grape Juice .... I 182, 183 

Ginger Beer 184 

Grape Granito 184 

Kentucky Egg Nog 182 

, Lamb's Wool 182 

Milk -Punch 183 

Orange Toddy 183 

Punch 182 

Raisin Wine ' 182 

Raspberry Vinegar 183 

Roman Punch — 182 

Spruce Beer 184 

Tea Punch 182 

Tom and Jerry • 183 

Various Fruit Waters 184 

Wassail Bowl 183 

Welsh Nectar 184 

Bin, To Find the Number of Bushels ' 

IN 211 



BISCUITS Ill 

Baking Powder 112 

Breakfast T. ... iii 

Soda Ill 

Southern Beaten 112 

Black Ink, Copying or Writing Fluid 213 

Black- Stockings, To Wash ; . . . 199 

Blacking, Patent 211 

Blood Stains, To Remove .- 212 

Blue, To Preven^ from Fading 207 

Bluing for Clothes, To Make 210 

Boots, To Dry 198 

Bottles anb Cruets, To Clean '. 204 

Brass or Copper Kettles, To Clean 206 

BREAD MAKING 105 

Baking - 107 ~ 

Baking Powders 108 

Bread Recipes 108 

Flour ...■-., los - 

Mixing and Kneading 106 

Jlecipes for Making Yeast 108 

The Sponge 106 

Yeast ... 106 

BREADS \_ 108 

Boston Brown 109 

Bread -. ic^ 

Corn .-. no 

Cornish no 

Currant no 

Eggless Gingerbread , no 

Entire Wheat _. 109 

Fried .....'. no 

Gingerbread no 

Graham no 

" Hotel Berry " Brown Bread 109 

Katahdin Corn no 

Oatmeal 109 

Old Fashioned Brown 109 

Raised Graham no 

Salt /Rising 109 

Soft Gingerbread no 

Spinster's 109 

Steamed Brown. no 

Steamed Graham no 

Whole Wheat 109 

Breads, LidHT (See "Light Breads.")., in 

Breath, Smell of Onions to Remove 

from th" 197 



226 



CULINARY INDEX. 



227 



BUNS 117 

Currant 117 

That Boys Like 117 

Burning Lamp Wicks, To Destroy Ooaft. 

OF .^ 197 

Butter, To Keep for Winter Use 202 

Cabbages, To Keep 209 

Cabbage Worms ; 203 

CAKE MAKING 119 

Cake Recipes 121 

. Frostiqgs, Icings and Fillings 128 

General Directions 119 

CAKES ^ 121 

A Cheap Fruit 125 

Angel 123 

Angel Food 122 

Anna's Cup 124 

, Apple 127 

Black Fruit 125 

Breakfast 127 

Buttermilk 121 

Caramel 121 

Centennial 124 

Cheap 124 

Cheap Fruit 128 

Chocolate 124 

Chocolate Caramel 126 

Chocolate Loaf 127 

Clara FoUetf s 124 

Cocoa 124 

Cofifee : 124 

Cornstarch Loaf , 124 

Cream '. i . 126 

Cream Puffs 127 

Crumb 124 

Custard 126 

Delicate 121 

Delicate Cgcoanut 124 

^evil 122, 128 

IDevil's Food 122 

Dolly Varden 127 

Economical 121 

Farmer's Fruit 12s 

Feather 124 

Fig 126 

French 124 

Fruit ...,....;.., 121 

Gold and Silver 123 

Good Almond 127 

Gospel 125 

Grandma's 121 

Hickory Nut 123 

Ice Cream 122 

Jelly Roll 122 

; Johnny 127 

Lady .; 125 

Layer or Loaf 128 

Lemon 123 

Lemon Jelly 123 

Lightning Clouse 128 

Maple ...127 

Marble 121 

Miiinehaha ■ 125 



CAKES— Continued. 

Morangtarta 12S 

Myrna Marble 122 

Nut 123 

One Egg 122, I2S 

Plain 128 

Plain Walnut 123 

Pork 127 

Prince of Wales 123 

- Queen 125 , 

Quick 122 

Ribbon 123 

Roll Jelly 127 

Silver 125 

Spice 127, 128 

Sponge i2;i 

Sultana 121 

Sunshine 126 

. Surprise 128 

Tea . . ., 126 

Taylor 121 

Velvet I26 

Washington 126 

Wedding 121 

White 126 

White Fruit ;. 125 

White Loaf 126: 

White Mountain 123 

Cakes, Griddle 119 

Calicx)es, Cambrics and Muslins, To 

Wash 203 

CANDY MAKING. THE ART OF. . . . 154 

Cream Candies 157 

Bonbons 158 

Chocolates 157 

Cocoanut Creams 159 

Combination Creams 1S9 

Cream Dates I58 

Cream Grapes 158 

Orangettes 159 

Sweet Sweets and Bitter Sweets.... 157 

Various Chocolates 158 

Wafers 158 

Fondants 156 

Maple IS7 

To Color 157 

To Flavor .- IS7 

White 157 

People's Recipes for Home-Made Can- 
dies 161 

Butter Scotch 161, 162 

Chewing Taffy 161 

Cracker Jack 161 

Cream Candy 161 

Hickory Nut Kisses 162 

January Thaws 161 

Kisses 162 

' Macaroons 162 

Maple Fudge 162 

Maple Sugar Candy 162 

Marshmallows 161 

Molasses Taffy 161 

Peanut Brittle 161 



238 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



CANDY MAKING, THE ART OF— 
—Continued. 

Prauline l6i 

Sea Foam i6i 

Sugar Drops 162 

Precautions to Prevent Sugaring or 

Graining i55 

Taffies 159 

Cinnamon ,' : 159 

Clove '. .' IS9 

Lemon 159 

Orange 159 

Pineapple IS9 

Strawberry 159 

Vanilla 159 

AVintergreen 159 

/ Testing— How To Tell When Candy is 

Done iSS 

Testing Table 156 

Various Candies 160 

Buttering Sticks 160 

Candy Cough Drops 160' 

Cocoanut Bar Candy 160 

Cream Caramels — Vanilla and Choco- 
late 160 

Peanut Bar Candy 160 

Canker Worms 217 

CANNING, PRESERVING AND 

JELLY MAKING 185 

Canned Apple Sauce 188 

Canned Beans 187 

Canned Corn 187 

Canned Elderberries 187, 188 

Canned Fruits (All Kinds) 185 

Canned Pineapple 188 

Canned Rhubarb 187 

Canning Fruits, Making Preserves, 

Jellies, Etc 186 

Canning Table 185 

Cooking Apricots 187 

Gooseberry Conserves '. 187 

Grape Marmalade 186 

Jellies 186 

Lemon Butter 188 

Lemon Marmalade . . .'. 188 

Marmalades * 186 

Orange '^Marmalade 187, 188 

Pear Qiips 187 

Pieplant Jelly 188 

Peserved Cherries 187 

Preserves 186 

Quince Honey 187, 188 

Strawberry Preserves 187, 

To Cook Cranjjerries 187 

Tomato Preserves , 188 

Carpet Bugs, To Kill 211 

Carpet Cleaner I97 

Carpets, To Clean 196 

Caterpillars 212 

CelbKy Pest or Little Negro Bug 217 

Celery, To Keep 208 

Cellars, To Keep Clean 20S 

Cement for Broken China 203 



Cement for China, Marble and Glass- 
ware 20s 

Cement, Diamond 202 

Cement for Glass and Iron 198 

Cement for All Kinds of Articles, A 

Good 205 

Cement for Rubber or Leather 202 

Cement for Wood, Ivory, Stone, Porce- 
lain, Leather, Silk, Woolen or Cot- 
ton 202 

Cement for China and Glass 203 

Chafing Disk Cookery (See "Rel- 
ishes.") 151 

CiHEESE Dishes (See "Relishes.") 151 

Chilbren's Rusks 118 

Chromos, To Clean 204 

Cinch Bugs 212 

Cistern Water, To Purify 197 

Cloth, To Remove Acid Spots from . . 206 
Cloth, To Remove Alkali Spots from 207 
Clothes, How they are Cleaned by 
Those Who Make it a Business.... 217 

Clothing, To Clean Mud from .-. 197 

Clothing, To Remove Bad Smells from 204 
CLOTHiNd, To Remove Paint from .... 206 
Coat Collars and Seams and Elbows, 
To Clean and Remove Gloss from.. 202 

Coffee Pots, Care of 204 

Coffee Stains, To Remove .". 198, 209 

Colorado Beetle or Potato Bug 212 

Concrete 21 1 

COOKIES 113 

Boston 114 

Cookies 114 

Cookies (Mother B's) 115 

Cornstarch 114 

Crisp Chocolate , 113 

Crumb Cakes i 113 

Cream ^ 114 

Drop Ginger Cakes 114 

Fruit 113 

Ginger 114 

Ginger Drop Cakes 113 

Ginger Snaps 114 

Hermits 114 

Lemon ; 114 

Lemon Drops 114 

Mince Crisp 115 

Molasses 114 

Mother's Caraway 113 

Nut 113 

Oatmeal 113 

Oatmeal Macaroons 114 

Peanut 114 

Rocks 114 

Scotch 113 

Taylor Cakes 113 

CktoKiNG OF Meats and Poultry 130 

Cooking Utensils, Treatment of New 203 

CovKS .'. 20s 

Corn Cake , 117 

Corn Dodgers 117 

(jorn Moth 212 



CULINARY INDEX. 



339 



Corn Pone 117 

Crackers ?. 118 

Cranberries, To Kbep 208 

CREAMS AND CUSTARDS 176 

Apple Custard 178 

Apple Float 176 

Apple Snow 176 

Banana Pudding 176 

Bavarian Cream 176 

Charlotte Russe 177, 178 

Cherrry Tapioca ' 177 

Custard 177 

Custard Souffle 177 

Fruit Jelly 177 

Kiss Pudding 178 

Lemon Gelatine 178 

Mock Whipped Cream .■..'..., 177 

Orange Float 177 

Pink Cream 177 

Pretty Pudding 177 

Raspberry Whip 177 

Russian Cream 177 

Spanish Cream ^ 178 

Strawberry Foam 178 

Velvet Cream 178 

CROQUETTES 139 

Cheese 139 

Hominy 139 

Italian 139 

Macaroni 139 

Oyster and Veal 139 

Potato 139 

Rice 139 

Rice and Beef 139 

Salmon 139 

' Sweet Potato 139 

Veal 139 

^ULLERS 117 

CUCUMBER Beetles 217 

Currant Worms and Rose Slugs, To 

Destroy 203 

Cut Worms 217 

cxttlery, to prevent rusting of 205 

D 

Dodgers, Corn , 117 

DOUGHNUTS .». US 

Doughnuts 1 15 

Doughnuts (Fine) 1 16 

Fried Cakes 1 16 

Improved Fat for Frying Doughnuts, 

Croquettes, Etc 116 

Raised 116 

Snow Balls 116 

Dressings, Salad 166 

DUMPLINGS 117 

Always Light II7 

Chicken ii7 

Drop 117 

DYEING AND COLORING 213 

Cotton Goods T 213 

Black 213 

Blue 213 



DYEING AND COLOmUG— Continued. 
Brown for Cotton, Woolep or Silk 213 

Green 214 

Orange 214 

Red 214 

Sky Blue for Cotton or Silk 213 

Yellow 213 

Silk Groods 215 

Black 4 215 

Brown 215 

Crimson 215 

Green 215 

Light Blue 215 

Orange 215 

Sky Blue 215 

Yellow 21S 

Woolen 'Goods 214 

Blue 214 

Brown 214 

Chrome Black ^ . 214 

Crimson 214 

Green , . . 214 

Orange 214 

Pink 214 

Scarlet 214 

Yellow 214 

E 

EGGS 142 

Baked 144 

Baked with Cheese 143 

Breaded 146 

Bird's Nest 144 

Buttered 14S 

Creamed 143 

Cupped 145 

Curried 144 

Deviled 143 

Dropped 14S 

Egg Gems 143 

Egg Fricassee 14S 

Egg Nest Toast 143 

Eggs a la Bonne Femme 146 

Eggs a la Creme ." 14S 

Eggs a la Creole 143 

Eggs a la Suisse 146 

Eggs a la Mode 145 

Eggs Brouille \ 146 

Eggs in Tomatoes 143 

Eggs in Paper Cases 147 

Escalloped 144 

Fried ., 144 

Frizzled 140 

Frizzled Ham and Egg? i44 

Frothed ; I47 

Lunch .... '. J46 

Newport Style ,... I4S 

Ox Eyes I43 

Pickled 140 

Poached • I44 

Potted 146 

Scrambled MS 

Shirred I44 



230 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



EGGS— Continued. 

Stuffed I4S 

Steamed 146 

To Coddle an Egg 144 

To Preserve 197 

F 

Feathers, To Clean 209 

Feathers, To Curl 210 

Feathers, To Restore 209 

Fillings, Cake 128 

Fire Kindler 203, 206 

FISH AND OYSTERS 13S 

Baked Codfish • ,136 

Baked Pickerel 136 

Baked Salmon 138 

Baked Shad 138 

Baked White Fish , 136 

Boiled Fresh Fish 136 

Broiled Oysters ; 138 

Clam Stew 136 

Codfish Balls 138 

Creamed Fish 137 

Curried Oysters 136 

Hscalloped Oysters ; . . . 138 

Escalloped Salmon 138 

Fish a la Creme 136 

Fried Oysters 137 

Frizzled Oysters 138 

Halibut Steak 137 

HoUandaise Sauce 138 

Lobster a la Newburg 136 

Oyster Cocktails 136 

Oyster Dressing 136 

Oyster Omelet !..... 137 

Oyster Rarebit 138 

Pigs in Blanket 137 

Salmon Balls 137 

Salmon Chops 137 

Salmon Croquettes 138 

Salmon Loaf 137 

Steamed Oysters 137 

Turbot . .' 137 

Flannels, To Wash 199 

Flannels, To Wash and Dry ; 203 

Fleas, To Dri^t Away 204 

Flies, To Get Rid of 200 

Flies, To Keep Off Gilt Frames 204 

Flour 105 

■ Fresh Paint, To Remove Smell of . . . 204 

FRITTERS IIS 

Corn IIS 

Corn Fritters or Mock Oysters its 

Fried Cream US 

Oyster IIS 

Potato IIS 

l^f AA l^fl K ^Q T T C 

FROSTINGS, "icings ' ANd' FiLL- 

INGS 128 

Boiled Icing 129 

Caramel Icing 128 

Chocolate Cream Frosting 129 

Chocolate Filling for Cake 128 

Custard Filling 129 



FROSTINGS, ICINGS AND FILL^"^ 
INGS — Continued. 

Icing for Cookies 129 

Icing Without Boiling 128 

Lemon Jelly Filling I29~ 

Maple Caramel Frosting 129 

Marshraallow Filling or Icing 128 

Fkuit Jars, To Loosen Covers of 203 

Fruit Stains, To Remove 198 

Furniture Dressing 196 

Furniture Polish 199 

Furniture Polish, An Excellent 198 

Furs, To Clean Dark 217 

Furs, To Clean Light 217 

G ' 

GAME , I3S 

A Delicious Rabbit Fry 135 

Hasenpfeffer 13s 

Pheasants, Partridges, Quails, Etc 135 

Rabbit Stew 135 

GEMS 116 

Corn 116 

Graham 116 

Wheat 1 16 

General Directions for Making Pies 162 

Gjlt Frames, To Clean 202 - 

Glass, To Bore Holes in 212 

Glass, To Clean 199 

Glass, To Cut or Break in any Shape 212. 

Glass Decanter, To Clean a 199 

Glass, To Remove Panes of 199 

Glass Stoppers, To Remove Tight 206 

Gloves, To Clean Kid 199 

Gloves, To Clean Light 199 

Gloves, To Clean Silk and Thread. . . 207 

Glue, Liquid 202, 211 

Gnats ; Tigg 

Gold Chains, Etc., To Clean .".... 211 

GraftinC Wax 203 

Graham Crackers 118 

Grain Wfevil 212 

Grapes, To Keep 209 

Grass Stains, To Remove igp 

Grease, To Remove 199 

Grease, To Remove from Floor 199 

Grease, To Remove from Wood Before 

PaintinO 20s 

Grease, To Take Out of Woolens, 

Silks, Paper, Floors, Etc .- . . 207 

Greasy Skillets, To Wash ........ 201 

GRIDDLE CAKES up 

Buckwheat i ig 

Corn Meal iig 

Egg ;..' 119 

Graham ug 

Potato iig 

Grubs 217 

H 

HANDY TABLES FOR COOKS 218 

Butter 218 

Eggs 218 



CULINARY INDEX. 



231 



HANDY TABLES FOR COOKS— 
Continued. 

Ftour r. 218 

Jugar f 218 

Hard Water, To Make Soft 201, 204 

Hay, To Measure 211 

Herbs, To Keep All Kinds of 208 

Hessian Fly . ." r. . . . 212 

Hinges, To Keep from Creaking 204 

How to Select Good Meat and Poultry 130 

1 I 

ICE CREAMS, SHERBETS AND 

ICES 178 

Almond Ice Cream 179 

Banana Ice Cream 7 179 

Bisque Glace i8i 

Caramel Ice Cream 170 

Cherry Ice 180 

Chocolate Ice Cream 179 

Cocoanut Ice Cream 179 

Cranberry Ice 180 

Currant Ice 180 

Currant Sherbet 180 

Frozen Fruit 181 

Green Grape Sherbet 180 

Lemon Ice 180 

Lemon Sherbet 180 

Macaroon Ice Cream 179 

Maple Frappe 181 

New York Ice Cream 179 

Orange Ice 180, 

Orange Sherbet 180 

Peach Ice 180 

Peach Ice Cream 1 . . ; 179 

Pineapple Ice Cream 179 

Pineapple Sherbet ." 181 

Plum Glace i8i 

Raspberj-y Ice Cream 180 

Roman Cream 180 

Strawberry Ice 180 

Strawberry Ice Cream .'. 179 

Three of a Kind 181 

Tutti Fruttt 181 

Vanilla and Lemon Ice Cream 179 

^ Ices .v. 178 

Icings, Cake 128 

Ink, To Remove from Linen 198 

Ink Spots i97 

Ink Stains, To Remove 199 

Insects Such as Bed Bugs, Moths, 

Etc., To Kill ., 197 

Interest, A Quick and Easy Way to 

Compute 215 

Ikon Rust, To Remove from Clothing 207 

Iron or Stee£, To Polish 206 

Iron Vessels, To Mend „, .. 197 

\roning 199 



Jexly Making CSee " Canning, Etc.") . . i8s 

JlfflTBLES 118 



Jumbles, Favorite 118 

Jewelry, To Clean 201 

K 

Kerosene and Grease Spots, To Take 

FROM Carpets 204 

Kerosene, To Remove 198 

Kitchen Floors, Tables and Wooden 

Articles, To Clean 204 

Kneading Bread 106 

Knives, To Clean 206 

L 

Lace Curtains, To Wash 208 

Lace, To Clean Black 207 

Laces, Washing' 208 

Lamp Chimneys and Other Glass- 
ware, To Temper 205 

Lamp Chimneys, To Clean ig8, 199 

Lemons, To Keep '. 208 

LIGHT BREADS m 

Biscuits Ill 

Buns 117 

Corn Dodgers, Corn Pone, Corn Cake 117 

Crackers 118 

Crullers 117 

Cookies 1 13 

Doughnuts IIS 

Dumplings 117 

Fritters 115 

Gems 116 

Griddle Cakes 119 

Jumbles 118 

Muffins 116 

Rolls Ill 

Rusks 118 

Sandwiches 1 12 

Scotch Scones and Apple Koker 118 

Toasts 118 

Waffles 116 

Lightning Cream for Clothes or 

Paint 205 

Linen Collars and Cuffs, To Stiffen 206 

Linen Stains, To Remove 201 

Linoleum or Oil Cloth, To Clean... 197 

M 

Machine Oil, To Take Out ..'..,.... 206 

Magic Annihilator 210 

Mat.ic Furniture Polish 205 

Making Yeast, Recipes for 108 

MEATS AND POULTRY 131 

A Ragout 134 

Baked Veal Chops or Cutlet 131 

Beef Loaf , 134 

Beefsteak Roll 131 

Boiled Ham 132 

Braised Beef 132 

Breaded Ham 131 

Chicken and Macaroni 133 

Chicken Croquettes 133 



233 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



MEATS AND POULTRY— Co»»«»«i*d, 

Chicken Cutlets 133 

Chicken Pie i33 

Chicken Sauteing 133 

Chicken Tamales 131 

Chop Suey 134 

Cleveland Chicken 133 

Creamed Beef 131 

Curry Chicken 132 

Deviled Ham Loaf 134 

Deviled Ham Rolls 132 

Dressing for Baked Fovrl 134 

Dressing for Stuffing Meats 131 

Ham Pattie 132 

Liver Timbales 134 

Nut Balls 134 

Old Point Comfort Chicken Terrapin 133 

Pressed Tongue ' I34 

Stuffed Le^ of Pork 132 

Stuffed Tripe 134 

Sweetbreads and Peas 133 

Tasse Ham 132 

Veal Loaf 131 

Veal with Oysters 132 

MEATS AND POULTRY, HOW TO 

SELECT GOOD 129 

Beef 129 

Ducks 130 

Fowls 130 

Geese 130 

Mutton \ 129 

Pork 130 

Turkeys 130 

Veal .' 130 

Meats and PotJLTRy, The Cooking of. . 130 

Meats, Preserving 194 

Mice, To Keep Away 200 

Mildew, To Remove 201 

Miscellaneous Weights 216 

Mixing and Kneading Bread 106 

Mosquitoes and Flies 201 

Mosquitoes and Flies, To Prevent Bites 

FROM 200 

Moths 200 

MurriNS ii6 

Muffins, Corn 116 

Muslin, To Bleach 208 

Muslins, To Wash Delicate Colored 207 
MticiLAGE ; 209 

N 

Neckties and Other Goods that Fade, 
To Wash .~ 207 

O 

Oilcloth, To Clean and Keep Nice 197 

OMELETS 147 

Baked 147 

French 147 

Ham 148 

Jelly or Marmalade 148 

Omelet 147 

Potato 147 



Onion Maggots 217 

Onions, To Keep 208 

Oysters, Fish and 13S 



P 

Pails and Tubs, To Keep from 

Shrinking .'. 20t 

Paint Spots, To Remove from Wjndows 203 
Paint Stains, To Remove from Cotton 

AND Wool 197 

Paint and Varnish, To Remove Old. . 199 

Painted Surface, To Wash 200 

Parsley, To Keep Green and Fresh.. 208 

Parsnips and Salsify, To Keep 208 

Patent Leather, To Polish 199 

Peas, To Keep for Winter Use 209 

Piano Polish 200 

PICKLING 189 

Beet Pickles 189 

Bordeaux Sauce 191 

Canned Beets 192 

Canned Cucumbers 192 

Celery Sauce 190 

Chili Sauce 192, 194 

Chopped Pickles ....".". i8g 

Chow Chow 189 

Chowder 191 

Cold Catsup 192 

Com Salad 193 

Com Sauce 191 

Cucumber Catsup 193 

Cucumber Pickles . .• 189, 19^ 

Damson Plum Catsup 191 

" Dandy " Home-Made Pickles 192 

Dill Pickles 189 

English Chow Chow 190 

Euchered Crab Apples 191 

Gooseberry Catsup 190 

Green Tomato Pickles 190 

Mexican Chili Sauce 193 

Mixed Pickles 190, 192 

Piccalilli 191 

Pickled Cabbage .■ ; 191 

Pickled Peaches 193 

Pickled Peppers igo 

Pickled String Beans 193 

Sliced Cucumbers 189 

Small Cucumber Pickles 191 

Sour Cucumber Pickles igj 

Spanish Pickle , . . . . 191 

Spiced Peaches 192 

String Bean Pickles 192 

Stuffed Peppers 191 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 190 

Sweet Pickled Prunes 190 

Sweet Pickles^Pears, Peaches and 

Apples 193 

Tomato Catsup 194 

Tomato Higdom 190 

Tomato Ketchup igo 

Tomato Sauce 190 

Watermelon Pickles 193 



CULINARY INDEX. 



PIES 162 

Buttermilk 163 

Chocolate 164 

Chocolate Cream 164 

Cocoanut 164 

Cornstarch 164 

Cream 164 

Custard ..■; 164 

Delicious- Apple 163 

Elderberry 164 

Lemon 164 

Lemon Cream ~. 165 

Mince Meat >."; 164 

Mock Cherry 164 

Mock Mince 165 

Molasses 164 

Pie Crust 165 

Pie Dough 165 

Pieplant 165 

Pumpkin 165 

Raisin 165 

Rhubarb 165 

Shoo-Fly 165 

Squash 165 

Transparent 165 

Vinegar 165 

Pies, General Dikections fok Making 162 

Plant Lice 217 

Plates, Cleaning Befoke Washing 197 

Poultry (See "Meats and Poultry.")... 131 
Poultry and Meats, How to Select 
Good 129 

PotJLTRY AND MeATS, ThE CoOKING OF. I30 

Powders, Baking io8 

Preserving (See "Canning, Etc.").. 185, 186 

PRESERVING MEATS 194 

Bologna Sausage 195. 

Corned Beef 194' 

Cracknels 195 

Curing and Smoking Hams 194 

Curing Hams 194 

Dried Beef". 194 

Head Cheese 195 

Mince Meat 196 

Mock Sausage ,. 195 

Pickle for Beef or Ham 194 

Pig's Feet Souse 19S 

Preserving Eggs 196 

Pressed Beef 196 

Sausage 195 

Scrapple 195 

To Keep Smoked Hams ....^ 194 

To Preserve Sausages 194 

Potatoes, To Keep , 209 

PUDDINGS 170 

Apple Dicky 170 

Baked Indian Pudding with Hard 

Sauce 171 

Bird's Nest 170 

Black 170 

Blanc Mange 175 

Bread 174 

Bread and Butter 170 

Brown 170 



PUDTimCS—eontinued. 

Brown Betty 173 

Cheap i. 173 

Cherry 173 

Cherry Puffs 172 

Chocolate | 173 

Cocoanut and Tapioca 171 

Cottage ... .V. .... ^ 173 

Crystallized Apples 173 

Cup 174 

Currant 173 

Date 174 

English Plum -.. 172 

Fig 171 

French 171 

Fruit 171 

Fruit Dowdy 171 

Fruit Juice Blanc Mange 174 ' 

Fruit Puff 175 

Fruit Roll 174 

Gelatine Jelly 174 

Lemon v... 171 

Lemon Rice , 173 

Orange 174 

Peach or Apple 170 

'Prune ..._. 172 

Prune Whip ". , . . 175 

Quick Apple Dumplings 174 

Quick Puff 172 

Raspberry Float 174 

Rice 172, 173 

Simple Plum 172 

Snow 174 

Sponge 172 

Steamed Chocolate 171 

Strawberry Shortcake , 173, 

Suet ;. 172 

Vegetable 173 

R 

Rancid Butter, To Sweeten 211 

Rats, To Drive Away 200 

Rats, To Drive Away Without Kill- 
ing 200 

Recipes for Making Yeast 108 

Recipes for Pies .'. 163 

Receipts of All Kinds, Various 196 

Red Ants, A Preventive for 200 

Red Ants, To Drive Away 204, 20s 

Red Table Linen, To Wash 207 

RELISHES. CHEESE AND CHAF- 
ING DISH COOKERY 151 

A Delicious Omelet 151 

Cheese Balls 1 153 

Cheese Fouder 152 

Cheese Fondu 152 

Cheese Ramekins 153 

Cheese Sauce for Potatoes 154 

Cheese Straws 153 

Chocolate Souffle ,.... ig'i 

Clams a la Newburg 152 

'Com Oysters 152 

Creamed Chicken 152 

Creamed Chicken and Mushrooms... 152 



234 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



RELISHES, CHEESE AND CHAF- 
ING DISH COOKERY— Continued. 

Creamed Oysters 152 

Deviled Eggs 152 

Deviled Crabs 153 

Dreams 153 

Fricassee of Dried Beef , 152 

Fricasseed Eggs IS' 

Fruit Canopes IS3 

Halibut a la Hollandaise 153 

Macaroni and Cheese 151 

Mexican Macaroni 154 

Nut Loaf 151 

Plain Rarebit 152 

Sardines on Toast 153 

Shrimp Wiggle IS3 

Spaghetti 154 

Welsh Rarebit IS3 

Ribbons, To Wash 203 

Roaches, To Exterminate 198 

Roaches, To Kill 204 

ROLLS Ill 

Astor House iii 

Cinnamon ill 

French ill 

Parker House iii 

Rolls Ill 

Round Tank, To Find the -Number of 

Gallons in 216 

Rusks, Children's 118 

Rust 197 

Rust, To Prevent -. 202 

Rust, To Remove from Plows and 

Other Steel Implements 206 

Rusty Wash Boilers. To Clean 206 

S 
SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 166 

Apple Salad 167 

Baked Com , 169 

Banana Salad 166 

Beet Salad 167 

Cabbage Salad Dressing 167 

Cheese Salad Dressing 168 

Cherry Salad 166 

Chicken Salad 168 

Cold Slaw 167 

Cold Slaw Dressing , 168 

Corn Salad 166 

Cream Dressing .167, 169 

Dressing for Yellow Pickles 167 

Endive Salad 168 

Fruit Salad 166 

German Potato Salad 168 

Green Bean Salad 168 

Heavenly- Hash or Fruit Salad 168 

Macaroni and Tomatoes 169 

Mayonnaise Dressing 168, 169 

Meat Salad 168 

Mixed Summer Salad 166 

Mustard Dressing . . 168 

Nut Salad 168 

Potato Salad 169 

Salad Dressing ,...167, 169 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 
— Continued. 

Salmon Dressing 169 

Sardine Salad '. 167 

Slaw 167 

Sour Potatoes 169 

String Bean Salad 166 

Stuflfed Tomato Salad 167 

Sweetbread Salad 167 

Tomatojelly 168 

Waldo Salad , 169 

Waldorf Salad with Mayonnaise 

Dressing 169 

SANDWICHES 112 

Apple and Celery 112 

Chicken 112 

Club 112 

Egg 113 

French I12 

Ham 112 

Nut .- 112 

Nut and Cheese ,' / 112 

Pimentos 113 

Salmon 112 

Sweet 112 

SAUCES 175 

Cream Sauce for Puddings 175 

Fig • , 175 

Hard 175 

Hot Chocolate Sauce for Ice Cfeaw or 

Pudding , 17^ 

Lemon ,.. 175 

Pudding 175 

Scale ■ . . , , 217 

Scorches, To Remove from Cloth 201 

Scorching When Ironing, To Prevent 199 

Scotch Scones ,.. n? 

Screws, To Loosen 200 

Sealing Wax, To Remove 210 

Shf-rbets and Ices 178 

Shirts, Silver Polish for 207 

Silver Polish 205 

Silver, To Clean 201 

Silver, To Clean Blackened 200 

Silverware, To Keep 204 

Silver, To Remove Egg Stains from . . 205 

Slugs g„ 

Soap, Hard !.!!!.',." 201 

Soap, Patent !!!'.!!. 210 

Soap, Soft '.!!!."'.!,' 201 

Soot, To Remove orm, 

SOUPS .:::::; f^ 

Asparagus jj^ 

Bean ^^„ 

Beef Broth ' \^ 

Bisque of Oysters " tTT 

BouiUon i^ 

&.:::::::::::::;::::•;•:••-"• ;4; 

Cream of Celery ....'!. . Jia 

Noodles for Soup ..... . , ' ' " ' J^ 

Potato Jlo 

Soup Stock ;:? 

Split Pea ., ;: J^ 



CULINARY INDEX. 



S3S 



SOUPS— Co«/i»i4«*rf. 

Tomato , 140, 142 

Tomato Bisque . . . , ^ 141 

Vegetable ^ 141 

White 141 

Sponge, To Clean a 204 

Sponge, The .' ro6 

SgUASH Bugs 217 

Stains Caused by Scorching, To Remove 201 
Stains, To Remove from Clothing , . . . 199 
Steel Knives, To Keep from Rusting., i^ 
Stove Polish, Bkqxiant Self-Shining 210 

Strawberry Worms 212 

Straw Hats^ To Clean 217 

T 

Table, A Handy 216 

Table of Apothecaries Weight 216 

Table of Avoirdupois Weight ......... 216 

Table of Fluid Measures 216 

Table of Liquid Measure 216 

Table of Troy Weight 216 

Tableware, To Remove Taste of Fish 

from 205 

Tan,. To Remove 198 

Tar, To Remove 210 

Tar, Wagon Grease, Mixtures of Fat, 
Carbon and Acetic Acid, To Remove 212 

Teakettle, The 204 

Tea Stains, ToRemove 200 

Tight Shoe, A i97 

Time Table for Cooks 218 

Tin Teakettles, To Brighten 205 

Tin, To Mend 205 

Tinware, To Clean 201 

TOASTS "8 

American 118 

Dry Beef .- 118 

Good "8 

Tobacco Pipes, To Clean 212 

Turnips, To Keep 208 

V 

Various Recipes of All Kinds 196 

VEGETABLES 148 

Baked Com 148 

Boston Baked Beans . . - 148 

Baked Onions I49 

Catrots -with Milk iSO 

Cauliflower 148 

Celery on Toast 148 

Corn a la Southern 148 

Com and Tomatoes iSO 

Corn Mock Oysters ISJ 

Com Oysters i^ 

Corn Puddjngr ...:....• 148 

Creamed Potatoes i49 

Egg Plant 149 

Escalloped Corn ; iSo 

Esralloped Onions I49 

Escalloped Potatoes . . . . r iSO 

Escalloped Tomatoes iSi 

French Stew ^Si 



YEGETABLES— Continued. 

Fried Egg Plant '. 150 

Fried Mushrooms 149 

Fried Tomatoes 151 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes 149 

Potato Croquettes 150 

Potato Puffs isi 

Potato Rolls ISO 

Potato Fluff 149 

Potatoes in Half Shell i. 150 

Roast Pork and Lima Beans 151 

Roasted Tomatoes ^ iSo 

Salsify or Vegetable Oyster 150 

Spinach 149 

Southern Cabbage 148 

Squash Cakes , . 149 

Stewed Cucumbers 151 

Stewed Onions 150 

Stuffed Potatoes . . ._ 149 

Tomatoes a la Spanish 150 

Vegetables, To Keep 209 

Vegetables, The Temperature at 

Which they Should be Kept 209 

Velvet, To Clean 207 

Velvet, To Restore 206 

W 

Waffles 116 ■ 

Wall or Building, How to Find the 

Number of Common Bricks in .' 216 

Wall Paper Cleaner - 196 

Wall Paper, To Clean 205 

Washing Black and White Calicoes.. 203 

Washing Blankets 198 

Washing Fluid 196 

Washing Fluid, Gem 201 

Washing Pink and Green Calicoes . . . 203 

Washing Purple or Blue 203 

WASHiNd Windows 203 

Water, To Purify , 201 

Water, To Soften f 206 

Water-proof Paper Covering for Jars — 

Used in Preserving, Etc. 206 

Weights and Measures 202 

Welding, Blacksmith's Borax foe 196 

"WHAT TO DO" AND "HOW TO 

DO IT" 196 

Alpaca, To Clean 206, 207 

Apple Tree Borers 212 

Apple Tree Louse 211 

Apples, To Keep 209 

Army Worni 211 

Axle Grease 211 

Bark Lice • ■• 212 

Barrel or Cask, To Find the Number . 

of Gallons in 215 

Bed Bugs, To Exterminate ig8 

Bin, To Find the Number of Bushels in 21 1 
Black Ink, Copying or Writing Fluid. 213 

Black Stockings, To Wash 199 

Blacking.Patent 211 

Blood Stains, To Remove 212 

Blue, To Prevent from Fading -. 207 



336 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



*WHAT TO DO" AND "HOW TO 
. DO IT"— Continued." 

Bluing for Clothes, To Make 210 

Boots, To Dry 198 

Bottles and Cruets, To Clean ?04 

Brass or Copper Kettles, To Clean... 206 
Breath, Smell of Onions to Remove 

from 197 

Burning Lamp Wicks, To Destroy 

Odor of 197 

Butter, To Keep for Winter Use Z02 

Cabbage Worms 203 

Cabbages, To Keep 209 

Calicoes, Cambrics and Muslins, To 

Wash ' 203 

Canker Worms 217 

Carpet Bugs, To Kill 211 

Carpet, Cleaner 197 

Carpets, To Clean 196 

Caterpillars 212 

Celery Pest or Little Negro Bug 217 

Celery, To Keep 208 

Cellars, To Keep Clean ... 208 

Cement for Broken China 203 

Cement for China, Marble and Glass- 
ware , 205 

Cement, Diamond 202 

Cement for Glass and Iron 198 

Cement for All Kinds of Articles, A 

Good 205 

Cement for Rubber or Leather 202 

Cement for Wood, Ivory, Stone, Porce- 
lain, Leather, Silk, Woolen or Cotton 202 

Cement for China and Glass .. ...,203 

Chromos, To Clean 204 

Cinch Bugs '. 212 

Cistern Water, To Purify 197 

Qoth, To Remove Acid Spots from.. 206 
Qoth, To Remove Alkali Spots from 207 
Qothes, How They are Cleaned by 

Those Who Make it a Business 217 

Qothing, To Clean Mud From 197 

Clothing, To Remove Bad Smells from 204 
Clothing, To Rempve Paint from .... 206 
Coat Collars and Seams and Elbows, 
To Clean and Remove Gloss from.. 202 

Coffee Pots, Care of 204 

Coffee Stains, To Remove 198, 209 

Colorado Beetle or Potato Bug 213 

Concrete 211 

Cooking Utensils, Treatment of New. . 203 

Corks 20s 

Com Moth 212 

Cranberries, To Keep 208 

Cucumber Beetles 217 

Currant Worms and Rose Slugs, To 

Destroy 203 

Cut Worms 217 

Cutlery, To Prevent Rusting of 205 

Dyeing and Coloring 213 

Cotton Goods 213 

Black 2J3 

Blue 213 

Brown for Cotton, Woolen or Silk 213 



"WHAT TO DO" AND "HOW TO 
DO IT "—Continued. v 

Green • 

^ Orange 

( Red 

Sky Blue for Cotton or Silk 

Yellow 

Silk Goods 

BJack 

Brown - 

Criipspn 

Green 

Light Blue 

Orange , ■ 

Sky Blue 

Yellow 

Woolen Goods ^ 

Blue 

Brown 

Chrome Black 

Crimson 

Green 

, Orange 

" Pink' 

Scarlet 

Yellow 

Eggs, To Preserve . . '. 

Feathers, To Clean 

Feathers, To Curl 

Feather^, To Restore 

Fire Kindler 203, 

Flannels, To Wash 

Flannels, To Wash and Dry 

Fleas, To Drive, Away ,../,.. 

Flies, To Get Rid of 

Flies, To Keep Off Gilt Frames 

Fresh Paint, To Remove Smell of 

Fruit Jars, To Loosen Covers of 

Fruit Stains, To Reipove 

Furniture Dressing 

Furniture Polish -. 

Furniture Polish, An Excellent 

Furs, To Qean Dark '. 

Furs, To Qean Light 

Gilt Frames, To Clean 

Glass, To Bore Holes in ' 

Glass, To Clean 

Glass, To Cut or Break in Any Shape 

Glass Decanter, To Clean a 

Glass, To Remove Panes of ,. . . . 

Glass, Stoppers, To Remove Tight.... 

Gloves, To Clean Kid 

Gloves, To -Clean Light 

Gloves, To Clean Silk and Thread.!! 

Glue, Liquid . . .- 202 

Gnats „ . . . . ' ' 

Gold Chains, Etc., To Ciean' ! ! ! ! ! 

Grafting Wax 

Grain Weevil " ! ! 

Grapes, To Keep .,!!!!!!!!!!! 

Grass Stains, To Remove !!!!!!!!!!! 

Grease, To Remove !!!!!! 

Grease, To Remove from Floor".!!!! 
Grease, To Remove from Wood Be- 



214 

214 
214 
213 
213 

■31.1 
215 
215 
2IS 
215 

215 

215 
215 

215 

214 
214 
214 
214 
214 
214 
214 

214 
214 
214 

197 
209 

210 
209 
200 

199 
203 
204 
200 
204 
204 
203 
198 
196 
199 
198 
217 
217 
202 
212 

199 
212 
199 
199 

ao6 
199 
199 
207 
211 

199 
211 
203 
212 
2og 
199 
199 
199 



CULINARY INDEX. 



237 



•WHAT TO DO" AND "HOW TO 
DO n^—CqnHnued. 

fore Painting ,.,,., aos 

Grease, To Take Out of Woolens, 

Silks, Paper, Floors. Etc 207 

Greasy Skillets, To Wash 803 

Grubs 217 

Handy Tables for Cooks 21I 

Butter ,. 2iS 

Eggs 218 

Flour 00 ai8 

Sugar 218 

Hard Water, To Soften aoi, 204 

Hay, To Measure 3ii 

Herbs, To Keep All Kinds of 208 

Hessian Fly 212 

Hinges, To Keep from Creaking ..... 204 
Ink, To Remove from Linen ........ ig8 

Ink Spots 197 

Ink Stains, To Remove 199 

Insects Such as Bed Bugs, Moths, Etc, 

To Kill 197 

Interest, A Quick and Easy Way to 

Compute 215 

Iron Rust, To Remove from Qothing 207 

Iron or Steel, To Polish 206 

Iron Vessels, To Mend 197 

Ironing 199 

Jewelry, To Qean soi 
kerosene and Grease Spots, To Take 

from Carpets 204 

Kerosene, To Remove 198 

Kitchen Floors, Tables and "Wooden 

Articles, To Clean 204 

Knives, To Qean 206 

Lace Curtain's, To Wash 208 

Lace, To Qean Black ...............' 207 

Laces, Washing 208 

Lamp Chimneys and Other Glassware, 

To Temper 205 

Lamp Chimneys, To Qean ..... 198, 199 

Lemons, To Keep 208 

Lightning Cream for Qothes or Paint 205 
Linen Collars and Cuffs, To Stiffen.. 206 

Linen Stains, To Remove 201 

Lmoleum or Oil Qoth, To Qean 197 

Machine Oil, To Take Out 206 

Magic Annihilator 210 

Magic Furniture Polish 205 

Mice, To Keep Away 200 

Mildew, To Remove 201 

Miscellaneous Weights 216 

Mosquitoes and Flies 201 

Mosquitoes and Flies, To Prevent 

Bites from 200 

Moths -, 200 

Muslin, To Bleach 208 

Muslins, To Wash Delicate Colored. , 207 

Mucilage 209 

Neckties and Other Goods that Fade, 

To Wash ii---\:,: 207 

Oil Goth, To Qean and Keep Nice. . . 197 

Onion Maggots 2I7 

Onton«; To Kee» «» 



■WHAT TO DO" AND "HOW TO 

DO IT"— Continued: 

Pails and Tubs. To Keep from Shrink- 
ing 204 

Paint Spots, To Remove from Win- 
dows 203 

Paint Stains, To Remove from Cotton 

and Wool 197 

, Paint and Varnish, To Remove Old.. 199 

Painted Surfaces, To Wash 20a 

Parsley, To Keep Green and Fresh... 208 

Parsnips and Salsify, To Keep 208 

?atent Leather, To Polish 199 
eas. To Keep for Winter Use 209 

Piano Polish 200 

Plant Lice 217 

Plates, Cleaning Before Washing .... 1^ 

Potatoes, To Keep ••<■ 209 

Rancid Butter, To Sweeten 211 

Rats, To Drive Away 200 

Rats, To Drive Awajr Without Killing 200 

Red Ants, A Preventive for 200 

Red Ants, To Drive Away 204, 205 

Red Table Linen, To Wash 207 

Ribbons, To Wash 203 

Roaches, To Exterminate 198 

Roaches, ToJCill 204 

Round Tank, To Find the Number of 

Gallons in 216 

Rust 197 

Rust, To Prevent , ^.. 202 

Rus^ To Remove from Plows and 

Other Steel Implements 206 

. Rusty Wash Boilers, To Qean 206 

Scale 217 

Scorches, To Remove from Cloth .... 201 
Scorching When Ironing, To Prevent 199 

Screws, To Loosen 200 

Sealing Wax, To Remove 210 

Shirts, Silver Polish for 207 

Silver Polish 205 

Silver, To Clean 201 

Silver, To Qean Blackened 200 

Silverware, To Keep , 204 

Silverware, To Remove Egg Stains 

from 205 

Slugs 217 

Soap, Hard 201 

Soap, Patent 210 

Soap, Soft 201 

Soot, To Remove 200 

Sponge, To Clean a 204 

Squash Bugs 217 

Stains Caused,by "Scorching, To Re- 
move 201 

Stains, To Remove from Clothing .... 199 
Steel Knives', To Keep from Rusting 198 
Stove Polish, Brilliant Self-Shining.. 210 

Strawberry Worms 212 

Straw Hats, To Qean 217 

Table, A Handy 216 

Table of Apothecaries Weight 216 

Table of Avoirdupois Weight 216 

Table of Fluid Measures 216 



238 



THE PEOPLE'S HOME RECIPE BOOK. 



"WHAT TO DO" AND "HOW TO 
DO IT "—Continued. 

Table of Liquid Measure 216 

Table of Troy Weight 216 

Tableware, To Remove Taste of Fish 

from 205 

Tan, To Remove 198 

Tar, To Remove 210 

Tar, Wagon Grease, Mixtures of Fat, 

Carbon and Acetic Acid, To Remove 212 

Teakettle, The 204 

Tea Stains, To Remove 200 

Tight Shoe, A 197 

Time Table for Cooks 218 

Tin Teakettles, To Brighten 205 

Tin, To Mend 205 

Tinware, To Clean 201 

Tobacco Pipes, To Clean 212 

Turnips, ToKeep 208 

Vegetables, To K^ep 209 

Vegetables, The Temperature at Which 

They Should be Kept 209 

Velvet, To Clean 267 

Velvet, To Restore 206 

Wall or Building, How to Find the 

Number of Common Bricks in 216 

Wall Paper Qeaner ig6 

Wall Paper, To Clean ;... 205 

Washing Black and White Calicoes . . . 203 

Washing "Blankets ig8 

Washing Fluid I06 

Washing Fluid, Gem 201 

Washing Pink and Green Calicoes ... 203 

Washing Purple or Blue '. 203 

' Washing Windows 203 

Water, To Purify 2or 

Water, To Soften 206 

Water-proof Paper Covering for Jars, 

Used in Preserving, Etc 206 

Weights and Measures 202 



"WHAT TO DO" AND "HOW TO 
DO IT "—Continued. 
Welding, Blacksmith's Borax for .... 196 

Whitewash for Cellars 208 

Whitewash, Hard 204 

White Zypher, To Clean 206 

Window Frames, To Remove Dry - 

Putty from 204 

Window Panes, To Frost 200 

Windows, Icy 204 

Wire Tableware, Care of 205 

Wood, to Petrify 212 

Woolen, and Silk Goods, To Clean 207 

Woolen Goods, To Remove Grease 

from 198 

Woolens, To Dry Without Shrinking 200 

Wrinkles, To Remove 198 

Whitewash for Cellars 208 

Whitewash, Hard 204 

White Zephyr, To Clean 200 

Window Frames, To Remove the Putty ' 

FROM 204 

Window Panes, To Frost 200 

Windows, Icy 204 

Wire Tableware, Care of 295 

Wood, To Petrify 212 

Woolen and Silk Dress Goods, To 

Clean 207 

Woolen Goods, To Remove Grease from 198 
Woolens, To Dry Without Shrinking 200 
Wrinkles, To Remove ..., igS 

Y 

Yeast 106 

YEAST, RECIPES FOR MAKING 10& 

Beer loP 

Hop , 108 

Potato 108 

Starter , 108 



.^ 






•LV/,., 






