HsiU  ^oUt^t  of  Agriculture 

J^t  Cfocnell  IntuerBitH 

Slibratg 


Cornell  University 
Library 


The  original  of  tiiis  book  is  in 
tine  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003491002 


MEATLESS  COOKERY 


WITH  SPECIAL  REFERENCE  TO 

DIET  FOR  HEART  DISEASE,  BLOOD  PRESSURE 

AND  AUTOINTOXICATION 


COMPILED   BY 
MARIA  MCILVAINE  GILLMORE 


INTRODUCTION  BY 

LOUIS  FAUGERES  BISHOP,  M.D. 

Clinical  Professor  of  Heart  and  Circulatory  Diseases 
\  Fordham  University 


Health  is  the  second  blessing  that  we  mortals  are  capable  oft 
a  blessing  that  money  cannot  buy. — Izaak  Walton. 


NEW  YORK 

E.  P.  DUTTON  &  COMPANY 

681  FIFTH  AVENUE 


Copyright,  1914 

BY 

E.  P.  BUTTON  &  COMPANY 


To 

All  those  who  are  concerned  in  the  prolongation  of  life 
this  book  is  hopefully  dedicated 


PREFACE 

Since  auto-intoxication  is  now  held  to  be  the  cause  of  many 
of  the  most  serious  diseases  of  humanity,  too  much  stress  can- 
not be  laid  upon  the  immediate  necessity  of  looking  into  the 
question  of  diet  and  removing  those  foods  which  are  re- 
sponsible for  the  cause  of  ill  health. 

In  the  case  of  heart  trouble  and  high  blood  pressure,  with 
the  accompanying  deterioration  of  other  organs,  Dr.  Bishop 
has  found  from  prolonged  observation  that  the  offending 
substance  most  often  appears  in  meat,  eggs,  fish  and  meat 
stock  soups,  but  is  not  the  same  in  all  cases. 

One  has  only  to  read  the  morning  paper  to  note  the  num- 
ber of  men  and  women,  unfortunately  most  often  those  liv- 
ing at  high  pressure  in  solving  some  of  the  problems  of  our 
complex  civilization,  who  are  cut  down  without  warning. 
One  must  be  irresponsive  indeed  not  to  be  impressed  by  the 
fact  that  something  is  radically  wrong  in  our  present  mode 
of  life. 

In  a  double  sense,  the  way  to  a  man's  heart  is  by  the 
food  he  is  given,  and  the  more  elaborate  the  food,  the  more 
quickly  does  his  heart  succumb  to  the  strain  put  upon  it.  So 
it  falls  upon  the  women  to  meet  this  condition,  and  without 
delay. 

The  insidiousness  of  auto-intoxication  is  that  it  runs  on 
for  some  time  without  showing  any  outward  effect,  so  that 
when  the  crash  comes  the  years  of  slow  poisoning  must  be 
counteracted  in  a  few  days,  and  the  tragic  part  of  it  is,  so 
often,  it  is  too  late. 

The  design  of  this  book  is  to  meet  these  conditions,  and 


PREFACE 

to  bring  before  the  public  an  assortment  of  attractive  recipes 
to  compensate  the  epicure  for  the  loss  of  those  dishes  which 
long  habit  and  an  'increasingly  jaded  appetite  demand.  In 
its  preparation  much  valuable  material  has  been  derived 
from  the  bulletins  issued  on  the  subject  by  the  Department 
of  Agriculture. 

The  bulletin  on  cheese  explains  from  the  result  of  scien- 
tific experiment  the  desirability  of  giving  cheese  an  impor- 
tant place  in  one's  diet.  In  Jonson's  time,  cheese  was  used 
as  we  use  meat  now,  for  the  principal  dish  of  the  meal,  but  it 
has  come  to  be  used  as  a  relish  or  side  dish.  And  when  Na- 
ture rebels  against  a  hearty  meal  of  proteins  with  cheese 
added,  we  say  complacently  that  it  was  the  cheese  that  caused 
the  trouble,  and  relegate  it  to  the  list  of  indigestibles. 

The  Government  report  has  exploded  the  fallacy,  putting 
this  nutritious  food  In  its  proper  place,  instead  of  an  addi- 
tion to  a  menu  already  heavy  with  proteins. 

So  one  need  not,  like  Nebuchadnezzar,  subsist  on  grass 
alone  just  because  meat  has  been  condemned,  for  there  are 
many  delicious  dishes  to  take  its  place. 

A  vegetable  gelatine  has  been  put  on  the  market,  which  is 
much  more  delicate  than  the  old-fashioned  animal  gelatine 
and  has  not  the  objectionable  odor.  There  are  also  vege- 
table and  nut  oils  to  be  used  instead  of  animal  fat  of  doubt- 
ful purity,  for  shortening  and  frying.  Egg,  white  of  egg 
and  chicken  dishes  have  been  added  ^t  the  end  of  the  book 
to  be  at  hand  if  they  may  be  added  to  the  menu. 

I  am  indebted  for  many  of  the  recipes  to  my  friends  and 
to  patients  of  Dr.  Bishop  who  have  been  kind  enough  to 
share  with  us  the  result  of  their  successful  experience.  Also 
to  Dr.  C.  F.  Langworthy,  expert  in  charge  of  Nutrition  In- 
vestigation of  the  United  States  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture, who  has  allowed  portions  of  his  charts  to  be  used  and 
recipes  from  the  bulletins.     I  am  under  especial  obligation 


PREFACE 

to  Miss  Lenna  Frances  Cooper,  Head  Dietitian  of  the 
Battle  Creek  Sanitarium  for  recipes  published  in  "  The  New 
Cookery." 

Maria  McIlvaine  Gillmore. 
New  York, 
1914. 


INTRODUCTION 

No  physician  who  has  not  tried  knows  how  difficult  it  is 
to  bridge  the  gap  between  those  of  technical  education  and 
those  who  have  not  been  so  trained. 

The  man  with  technical  knowledge  teaches  and  the  un- 
trained person  seems  to  understand,  but  any  test  will  often 
show  that  no  knowledge  of  particular  value  has  been  im- 
parted. 

There  are  only  a  dozen  writers  in  the  English  language 
who  excel  in  expounding  real  medical  knowledge  in  a  popular 
way.  All  the  rest  impart  only  a  half-knowledge  that  retards, 
rather  than  advances,  true  medicine. 

So  it  is  better  that  the  practical  application  of  dietetics 
should  be  taught  by  one  who  Is  not  trammeled  by  intricacies 
of  medicine  and  who  can  work  backward,  as  it  were,  from 
domestic  science,  to  meet  the  medical  demands. 

The  demand  in  this  case  is  to  meet,  by  a  very  rigid  diet, 
the  needs  of  those  who  are  threatened  with  serious  dis- 
orders of  the  heart  and  blood  vessels. 

Many  years  of  study  have  brought  me  back  to  founding 
the  diet  of  heart  sufferers  upon  the  basis  of  the  old  adage, 
"  What  is  one  man's  meat  is  another  man's  poison." 

The  scientific  basis  of  this  truth  Is  a  long  story  of  pro- 
found Interest  involving  nearly  every  branch  of  modern 
research,  the  action  of  germs,  the  chemistry  of  the  proteins, 
and,  curiously  enough,  the  principles  of  vaccination. 

It  has  been  found  that,  under  certain  circumstances,  the 
cells  of  the  body  become  sensitive  to  the  protein  element  of 
certain  kinds'  of  foods,  and,  from  that  time  on,  as  long  as 
this  sensitiveness  lasts,  that  kind  of  food  acts  asi  a  poison 


INTRODUCTION 

to  the  cells  of  the  body.  The  only  way  to  limit  the  damage 
is  to  exclude  the  offending  article  of  food  from  the  diet. 

Another  important  point  in  the  matter  is,  that  when  a 
person  is  sensitive  to  a  particular  kind  of  food,  the  cells 
are  almost  as  much  irritated  by  a  little  of  this  food  as  by 
a  great  deal,  so  that  a  diet,  to  be  of  much  use,  has  to  be  a 
strict  diet. 

Many  failures  can  be  laid  at  the  door  of  slight  indulgence 
in  the  type  of  food  to  which  the  person  is  sensitive.  This 
may  happen  unconsciously  or  because  of  the  belief  that  a 
little  will  not  do  any  harm.  It  is  hard  for  an  untrained  per- 
son to  believe  that  food  damage  can  be  entirely  independent 
of  any  discomfort,  but  such  is  the  case. 

Food  poisoning  has  generally  existed  for  five  or  ten  years 
before  the  heart  is  sufficiently  damaged  to  cause  distress  on 
exertion. 

If  the  person  goes  under  the  care  of  a  competent  specialist 
before  any  discomfort  begins,  as  in  those  rejected  by  life 
insurance  or  accidentally  examined,  the  task  of  the  physician 
is  very  hard.  It  is  his  duty  to  persuade  sudh  a  person  that 
a  strict  diet  is  necessary,  but  the  sick  person  does  not  feel 
any  discomfort  from  his  high  blood  pressure  or  leaking 
heart,  and  so  he  is  in  no  position  to  appreciate  any  of  the 
improvement  that  may  result  from  the  adherence  to  a 
diet. 

On  the  whole.  It  Is  a  fortunate  thing  if  pain  and  oppres- 
sion in  the  chest  develop  early  in  heart  disease,  as  it  gives 
an  opportunity  for  treatment  before  the  disease  has  ad- 
vanced. 

My  own  experience  Is,  that  heart  disease  and  hardening 
of  the  arteries  have  usually  existed  about  five  years  at  the 
time  the  sufferer  comes  under  observation. 

This  will  not  always  be  so  because  there  Is  a  strong  move- 


INTRODUCTION 

ment  by  the  life  insurance  companies  to  bring  about  the 
examination  at  regular  intervals  of  all  persons  who  are  in- 
sured, so  as  to  detect  the  symptomless  disease  in  time,  and 
effect  an  early  cure. 

The  things  that  do  damage  are  usually  found  in  the  group 
including  eggs,  fish,  meat  and  stock  soups,  but  there  is  no 
definite  way  of  determining  which  of  these  things  is  at  fault. 

This  has  to  be  accomplished  by  the  study  of  each  indi- 
vidual person,  by  means  of  the  absolute  withdrawal  of  all 
those  things  until  there  is  an  improvement  in  the  action  of 
the  heart  and  blood  vessels.  Now  one  article  of  food,  and 
then  another  is  added  to  the  diet,  and  it  Is  discovered  by 
experiment  which  one  the  person  can  use  without  a  return 
of  the  disorder. 

In  the  beginning,  it  may  be  only  eggs,  or  fish,  or  meat, 
that  is  a  source  of  irritation  to  the  cells  of  the  body.  In 
persons  very  seriously  11^  with  hardening  of  the  arteries,  all 
of  these  things  are  a  source  of  irritation. 

It  is  comparatively  easy  for  a  physician  to  say,  "  Don't 
eat  any  eggs,"  but  It  is  very  hard  to  conduct  cooking  on  this 
basis,  and  the  cutting  out  of  meat  makes  a  tremendous  de- 
ficiency In  the  fare  of  most  households.  Stock  soups  and 
fish  are  also  missed. 

Mrs.  Gillmore,  in  this  book,  has  undertaken  to  compile 
the  experience  of  persons  who  have  honestly  attempted  to 
restore  the  health  and  prolong  the  lives  of  members  of  their 
■  family  by  providing  attractive  meals,  which,  at  the  same 
time,  complied  with  the  requirements  of  persons  who  had  to 
consider  their  hearts  and  blood  vessels. 

Mrs.  Gillmore  has  contributed  to  a  work  that  will  help 
other  women  In  this  problem,  and  will  measurably  assist  In 
the  checking  of  the  advance  of  a  class  of  diseases  that  is  now 
claiming  twice  as  many  victims  as  it  did  thirty  years  ago 


INTRODUCTION 

and  from  those  who  can  least  be  spared  by  dieir  families  and 
the  State. 

Louis  Faugeres  Bishop. 

A.  M.  (Rutgers),  M.D.  (Columbia.y 
Professor  of  Heart  and   Circulatory  Diseases, 
Fordham  University,  School  of  Medicine, 
New  Yorkc 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Beverages  .     »     , i 

Cereals io 

Bread,  Etc.      .     .     .    / 15 

Soups -44 

Meat  Substitutes 81 

Vegetables 128 

Sauces 183 

Salads 191 

Salad  Dressings 204 

Sandwiches 208 

Toasts 212 

Miscellaneous 218 

Pies 222 

Vegetable  Gelatine 228 

Hot  Desserts        237 

Cold  Desserts 251 

Fruit  Desserts 262 

Frozen  Desserts        291 

Cakes 29s 

Frostings 299 

Eggs 301 

Whites  of  Eggs 304 

Chicken 322 

Menus        325 


SUBJECT  INDEX 


Beverages,  i 
Bread,  etc.,  IS 
Cakes,  295 
Cereals,  10 
Chicken,  322 
Desserts,  cold,  251 
Desserts,  frozen,  291 
Desserts,  fruit,  262 
Desserts,  hot,  237 
Eggs,  301 
Frostings,  299 
Meat  substitutes,  81 


Menus,  325 

Miscellaneous,  218 

Pies,  222 

Salads,  191 

Salad  Dressings,  204 

Sandwiches,  208 

Sauces,  183 

Soups,  44 

Toasts,  212 

Vegetable  Gelatine,  228 

Vegetables,  128 

Whites  of  Eggs,  304 


TABLE  OF  CHARTS 

TO  BE  FOUND  AT  THE  BACK  OF  THE  BOOK 

NO. 

Dietary  Standards i 

Functions  and  "Uses  of  Food 2 

Cream  Cheese .*        .  3 

Beef  Steak 4 

Peanut  Butter 5 

Lamb  Chop 6 

Butter 7 

Bacon.        ..        ^       ......  8 

cocoanut 9 

Pork  Chop 10 

Walnut 11 

Whole  Egg        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .  12 

Peanut 13 

Mackerel 14 

Naaht  Bean,  Dry 15 

Potato 16 

White  Bread 17 

Corn  Bread .18 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 19 

Banana 20 

Raisins 21 

Dried  Fig 22 


MEATLESS  COOKERY 


BEVERAGES 

Drink  of  this  cup ;  you'll  find  there's  a  spell  in 
Its  every  drop  against  the  ills  of  mortality. 
Talk  of  the  cordial  that  sparkled  for  Helen  1 
Her  cup  was  fiction,  but  this  is  reality. 
^  T.  MooRB. 

CEREAL  COFFEE 

8  tablespoons  cereal  coffee  ^  saltspoon  butter 

I  quart  cold  water 

Put  the  cereal  Into  coffee  pot  with  the  cold  water  and  but- 
ter; boil  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  sugar  and  hot  milk 
or  cream.     It  may  be  cooked  without  butter  in  a  percolator. 

COCOA 

3  tablespoons  cocoa  i  cup  boiling  water 

4  tablespoons  sugar  3  cups  scalded  milk 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Put  the  cocoa  and 
sugar  in  a  saucepan,  and  slowly  pour  on  the  hot  water,  stir- 
ring all  the  time.  Boil  five  minutes,  add  the  scalded  milk; 
beat  until  foamy  with  an  egg  beater.  One-half  cup  of  cream 
makes  the  cocoa  richer. 

FRENCH  COCOA 

4  teaspoons  cocoa  i  cup  boiling  water 

2  teaspoons  sugar  i  cup  scalded  milk 

Follow  the  directions  in  the  preceding  recipe,  boiling  three 
minutes. 

z 


2         MEATLESS  COOKERY 

MALTED  MILK  COCOA 

4  tablespoons    Horlick's    malted     3  cups  boiling  water 
milk  Sugar 

4  teaspoons  cocoa 

Mix  the  malted  milk  powder,  cocoa  and  water,  stirring 
well.     Boil  three  minutes. 

CHOCOLATE 

1  quart  milk  J^  tablespoon  cornstarch 

2  ounces  chocolate  3  tablespoons  sugar 
2  tablespoons  boiling  water             Pinch  salt 

Mix  the  cornstarch  with  one-fourth  cup  of  the  milk.  Put 
remainder  of  milk  in  double  boiler.  When  the  milk  is 
scalded,  stir  in  the  cornstarch,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes. 
Grate  the  chocolate,  and  put  it  in  a  small  saucepan;  add 
sugar  and  water,  and  place  the  saucepan  over  hot  water. 
Stir  constantly  until  the  mixture  is  smooth.  Add  the  hot 
milk,  and  beat  the  mixture  with  an  egg  beater  until  frothy. 

PLAIN  CHOCOLATE 

4  cups  milk  }i  tablespoon  cornstarch 

2  ounces  of  chocolate  3  tablespoons  sugar 

Follow  the  directions  in  preceding  recipe. 

CHOCOLATE,  VIENNESE 

I  quart  milk  3  tablespoons  boiling  water 

4  ounces  vanilla  chocolate  i  tablespoon  sugar 

Scald  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Grate  the  chocolate,  and 
put  it  with  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  small  saucepan;  heat 
over  hot  water,  stirring  until  smooth.  Stir  this  mixture  into 
the  hot  milk,  and  beat  thoroughly  with  an  egg  beater. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 


BEVERAGES  3 

CHOCOLATE  MILK  SHAKE 

4  tablespoons  chopped  ice  i  cup  milk 

4  tablespoons  chocolate  syrup  i  cup  soda  water  or  ApolHnaris 

6  tablespoons  whipped  cream  water 

Mix  and  shake  well  before  drinking.  A  tablespoon  of 
vanilla  ice-cream  may  be  added. 

CHOCOLATE  SYRUP 

2  ounces  chocolate  2  tablespoons  vanilla 

2  cups  boiling  water  4  cups  sugar 

Put  the  chocolate  in  a  saucepan,  and  add  the  water  gradu- 
ally, stirring  all  the  time.  Add  the  sugar,  and  stir  till  it 
begins  to  boil;  boil  three  minutes,  strain,  cool,  and  add  two 
tablespoons  vanilla. 

ALMOND  MILK 

4  ounces  of  sweet  almonds  Orange-flower  water 

6  bitter  almonds  i  quart  of' water 

Blanch  the  almonds,  and  grind  them  in  a  nut  mill.  Pound 
them  in  a  mortar  a  little  at  a  time,  adding  occasionally  a 
drop  of  orange-flower  water,  to  prevent  oiling.  When  they 
are  well  pounded,  return  them  to  the  mortar,  and  pour  the 
cold  water  over  them,  mixing  well.  Place  a  cloth  over  the 
mortar,  put  a  plate  over  that,  and  let  them  stand  four  hours. 
Strain  and  bottle  for  use. 

RICE  MILK 

2  tablespoons  of  rice  I  saltspoon  salt 

I  pint  scalded  milk 

Soak  the  rice  several  hours,  strain,  and  add  the  scalded 
milk  and  salt  to  the  rice.  Stir  well,  and  cook  slowly  for 
one  hour.  Rub  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  dilute  with  more 
milk.  Serve  very  cold.  If  preferred  flavor  with  a  half 
teaspoon  of  vanilla  extract. 


4  MEATLESS  COOKERY, 

RUM  AND  MILK 

I  cup  of  milk  I  teaspoon  of  sugar 

I  tablespoon  of  brandy 

Put  the  ingredients  in  a  lemonade  shaker  or  fruit  jar  and 
shake  until  frothy. 

SHERRY  OR  BRANDY  AND  MILK 

I  cup  fresh  milk  54  teaspoon  sugar 

1  tablespoon  brandy  or  rum  Nutmeg 

Dash  of  salt 

Prepare  as  "  Rum  and  Milk."  Serve  in  a  cold  glass  and 
add  a  grating  of  nutmeg  on  top. 

CINNAMON  AND  MILK 

I  cup  milk  Sugar 

Stick  cinnamon  i  teaspoon  brandy 

Boil  the  milk  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon  to  flavor  it  for  ten 
minutes  and  add  the  sugar.     Serve  cold  with  the  brandy. 

RICE  WATER  NO.  i 

3  tablespoons  rice  Salt,  sugar 
4/^  cups  cold  water                            Milk 

Wash  the  rice  thoroughly;, add  the  cold  water,  and  soak 
half  an  hour;  heat  to  boiling  point,  and  cook  one  hour  or 
until  the  rice  is  tender.  Strain.  Season  with  salt  and 
sugar. 

RICE  WATER  NO.  2 

4  tablespoons  rice  i  tablespoon  raisins 

Ij4  pints  boiling  water 

Wash  the  rice  carefully,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  the 
water  and  stoned  raisins  and  boil  gently  for  one  hour. 
Strain  and  serve  cold.     Sugar  or  salt  may  be  added. 


BEVERAGES  S 

BARLEY  WATER 

5  lemons  and  rind  i  breakfast  eup  cut  sugar 

1  cup  barley  3  quarts  boiling  water 

Add  the  water  to  the  first  three  ingredients,  boil  two 
hours,  let  it  stand  until  cool,  then  strain.  The  barley  must 
be  soaked  several  hours,  and  strained. 

MALTED  MILK  WITH  WINE 

4  tablespoons    Horlick's    malted     2  tablespoons  sherry 
milk  I  teaspoon  of  sugar 

a  cups  hot  water 
Mix  the  malted  milk  with  enough  cold  water  to  make  a 
smooth  paste,  then  add  gradually  the  hot  water,  wine,  and 
the  sugar. 

SINGAPORE  PUNCH 

2  quarts  boiling  water  2  tangerine  oranges 

1  pound  sugar  2  slices  pineapple 
4  lemons  I  banana 

4  oranges  i  pint  Maraschino  cherries 

2  dozen  malaga  grapes 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  boiling  water.  Add  the  grated 
rind  of  two  lemons  and  four  oranges,  and  boil  for  15  min- 
utes. Strain  the  syrup  and  add  one  quart  of  cold  water. 
Strain  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  oranges,  and  mix  with 
two  dozen  Malaga  grapes,  cut  in  half  and  seeded,  the  tan- 
gerine oranges  sliced,  the  pineapple  shredded,  the  bananas 
cut  in  slices,  and  one  pint  of  Maraschino  cherries  with  their 
liquor.     Add  the  fruit  to  the  syrup,  chill  and  serve. 

'  CEYLON  PUNCH 

2  large  teaspoons  of  Ceylon  tea      4  oranges 

2  quarts  of  boiling  water  i  pineapple 

I  pound  lump  sugar  3  bananas 

8  lemons  I  pint  strawberries 

Steep  the  tea  in  the  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  strain. 


6  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

add  the  sugar.  Grate  the  rind  of  the  lemons,  and  squeeze 
the  juice.  Cut  the  oranges  into  thin  slices,  shred  the  pine- 
apple, slice  the  bananas  and  hull  the  strawberries.  When 
the  tea  is  cold,  add  all  the  fruit,  and  let  it  stand  on  the  ice 
for  several  hours.  One  cup  of  Maraschino  cherries  may  be 
added. 

PRUIT  PUNCH 

ij^  cups  sugar  J^  cup  lemon  juice 

I  cup  hot  water  l  pint  ginger  ale 

I  cup  orange  juice  i  pint  Lithia  water 

I  orange  sliced  Maraschino  cherries 

Dissolve  the  sugar  with  the  water  and  add  the  fruit  juices. 
Strain  into  a  punch  bowl  over  large  piece  of  ice,  and  just 
before  serving,  add  ale,  Lithia,  slices  of  orange  and  the 
cherries. 

LEMONADE 

I  lemon  2  tablespoons  sugar 

I  cup  boiling  water  J4  thin  slice  lemon 

Wash  the  lemon  and  cut  a  very  thin  slice  from  the  middle. 

Put  the  sugar  in  a  bowl,  squeeze  the  juice  in  it,  remove  the 

seeds,  add  the  boiling  water;  cover,  and  put  on' ice  to  cool. 

Strain,  and  serve  in  a  glass- 
Cut  half  the  slice  of  lemon  into  two  pieces,  and  use  as  a 

garnish ;  or  a  few  berries  or  slice  of  orange  may  be  used. 

FRUIT  LEMONADE 

Add  fresh  fruit  of  any  kind  to  lemonade,  made  by  the 
above  recipe  and  chill  on  ice. 

BRAN  LEMONADE 

J4  cup  bran  Juice  of  i  lemon 

2  cups  cold  water 

Let  the  bran  and  water  stand  overnight.  Strain,  and 
add  the  juice  of  the  lemon.     Chill  and  serve. 


BEVERAGES  7 

GRAPE  LEMONADE 
I  Glass 
To  one  cup  of  lemonade,  add  one-fourth  cup  Welch's 
grape-juice. 

ORANGEADE  NO.  i 
I  Glass 

1  orange  i  tablespoon  sugar 
y^  cup  boiling  water                        J^  slice  orange 

Prepare  as  for  lemonade.  If  orange  is  not  acid,  add  a 
little  lemon  juice. 

ORANGEADE  NO.  2 

Put  two  tablespoons  of  crushed  ice  in  a  glass  and  pour 
the  juice  of  one  orange  over  it.     Sweeten  to  taste. 

FRUITADE 

y^  cup  grated  pineapple  i  cup  boiling  water 

Juice  J4,  lemon  Juice  J^  orange 

Sugar 

Add  the  boiling  water  to  the  pineapple  and  fruit  juices 
with  one  tablespoon  sugar;  let  it  stand  until  cool.  Add 
more  water  and  sugar  if  necessary.     Strain,  and  serve  cold. 

PINEAPPLE  JUICE 

yz  cup  pineapple  juice  Crushed  ice 

Sugar 

Pour  the  pineapple  juice  over  crushed  ice,  and  serve  very 
cold. 

SODA  OR  APOLLINARIS  LEMONADE 

Juice  of  I  lemon  J4  teaspoon  soda 

2  tablespoons  sugar  54  cup  cold  water 

Prepare  the  lemonade,  cool,  and  add  the  soda,  stirring 
thoroughly. 


8  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Or  Apollinaris  water  may  be  used  instead  of  the  water 
and  soda. 

PINEAPPLE  LEMONADE 

Yz  cup  of  pineapple  juice  Yi  cup  boiling  water 

Juice  of  I  lemon  i  cup  ice  water 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Mix  the  pineapple,  lemon  juice  and  sugar,  and  add  the 
boiling  water.     Cool,  add  ice-water,  strain,  and  serve. 

IRISH  MOSS  LEMONADE 

J4  cup  Irish  moss  4  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2  cups  cold  water  Sugar 

Pick  over,  and  wash  the  moss  and  soak  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Drain,  and  add  the  cold  water ;  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until 
syrupy.  If  it  is  too  thick,  add  hot  water.  Strain,  add  the 
lemon  juice  and  sugar  to  taste.     Reheat,  and  serve. 

RASPBERRY  SHRUB 

4  quarts  raspberries  i  pint  pear  vinegar 

Sugar 

Pick  over  the  raspberries,  cover  one  half  with  the  vine- 
gar and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Strain  through  cheese- 
cloth. Pour  the  liquor  over  the  remaining  raspberries,  and 
let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Again  strain  through  cheese- 
cloth. To  each  cup  of  juice,  add  one-half  pound  of  sugar. 
Heat  gradually  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved ;  then  boil  fifteen 
minutes.     Bottle  and  cork.     If  too  strong  dilute  with  water. 

IRISH  MOSS  LEMONADE  WITH  FIGS 

Yi  cup  Irish  moss  Y^  '^"P  sugar 

2  cups  water  4  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

4  figs  finely  chopped  Grated  rind  i  lemon 

Heat  the  water  and  figs  in  a  saucepan  to  the  boiling  point. 
Soak  the  Irish  moss  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it  for 
three  minutes;  drain,  and  pick  over.     Add  the  moss  and 


BEVERAGES  9 

other  ingredients  tp  the  figs,  and  simmer  until  the  moss  loses 
its  shape. 
Strain,  and  cool. 

GRAPE  NECTAR 

Boil  one  pound  of  sugar  in  one-half  pint  of  water  until  it 
thickens;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  add  the 
juice  of  four  lemons  and  one  quart  of  Welch's  grape  jiiice. 
Let  it  stand  several  hours.  Serve  with  ice  Water,  ApoUi- 
naris  or  plain  soda. 


CEREALS 

iWe  cultivate  literature  on  a  little  oatmeal. 

Sydney  Smith. 

ROLLED  OATS  MUSH 

1  cup  rolled  oats  2  cups  boiling  water 

J^  teaspoon  salt 

Add  the  oats  and  salt  to  the  boiling  water  stirring  con- 
stantly. Boil  five  minutes,  then  steam  in  a  double  boiler  two 
hours. 

WHEATLET  MUSH  WITH  FRUIT 

6  tablespoons  Wheatlet  J4  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  boiling  water  Ys  cup  dates,  stoned  and  cut  in 

quarters 

Add  the  Wheatlet  and  salt  to  the  boiling  water  and  cook 
two  hours.     Add  dates  or  figs,  cook  two  minutes  more. 

OATMEAL  MUSH 

%  pound  Scotch  oatmeal  i  quart  boiling  water 

I  teaspoon  salt 

Put  the  oatmeal  and  salt  in  a  double  boiler,  pour  on  the 
boiling  water,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Then  cover  and  cook  gently  for  four, hours.  Stir  from 
time  to  time.  Turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  sugar 
and  cream. 

Apples  cooked  in  any  way  may  be  served  with  oatmeal. 
They  should  be  served  with  the  mush,  and  sugar  and  cream 
poured  over  the  whole. 

to 


CEREALS  II 

CORNMEAL  MUSH 

I  cup  cornmeal  i  cup  cold  water 

I  teaspoon  salt  2^  cups  boiling  water 

Moisten  the  cornmeal  with  the  cold  water,  and  turn  im- 
mediately into  the  actively  boiling  salted  water.  Stir  con- 
stantly until  the  mixture  is  set  or  thickened,  and  cook  in  a 
double  boiler  three  to  four  hours. 

BUTTERMILK  CORNMEAL  MUSH 

White  cornmeal  cooked  in  buttermilk  makes  a  dish  which 
resembles  cottage  cheese  in  flavor.  It  should  be  served 
very  cold  with  cream.  In  making  it,  allow  one  part  of  corn- 
meal to  six  parts  of  buttermilk,  and  one  teaspoon, of  salt 
to  each  cup  of  meal. 

BREAKFAST  CEREALS  WITH  CHEESE 

That  cheese  combined  with  cereal  foods  makes  a  rational 
dish  as  regards  the  proportion  of  nutrients  it  supplies  has 
been  proved  by  dietitians.  Cheese  and  some  of  the  crisp 
"  ready  to  serve  "  cereal  breakfast  foods  Is  a  combination 
which  is  common,  th^  cheese  being  melted  with  the  cereal 
food,  or  simply  served  with  it. 

There  are  many  who  relish  a  piece  of  cheese  with  the 
cooked  cereal  so  commonly  eaten  for  breakfast,  and  find 
such  a  combination  satisfying  to  appetite  and  taste";  Oat- 
meal or  some  other  home-cooked  breakfast  cereal  prepared 
with  cheese  is  palatable,  and  such  dishes  have  an  advantage 
in  that  they  may  be  served  without  cream  and  sugar.  Since 
such  a  dish  contains  considerably  more  projtein  than  the 
breakfast  cereals  as  ordinarily  served,  it  has  a  further  ad- 
vantage in  that  it  may  well  serve  as  the  principal  item  of 
a  breakfast  menu,  instead  of  a  preliminary  to  other  courses. 
Such  a  combination  as  cereals  cooked  with  cheese,  toast, 
fruit,  and  chocolate,  makes  a  palatable  as  well  as  nutritious 
breakfast. 


12  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

A  recipe  for  preparing  oatmeal  with  cheese  follows. 
Wheat  breakfast  foods,  either  pardied  or  unparched,  corn- 
meal,  and  hominy  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

OATMEAL  WITH  CHEESE 
3  cups  of  oatmeal  i  tablespoon  of  butter 

I  cup  of  grated  cheese  i  scant  teaspoon  of  salt 

Cook  the  oatmeal  as  usual.  Shortly  before  serving,  stir 
in  the  butter,  and  add  the  cheese,  and  stir  until  the  cheese  is 
melted,  and  thoroughly  blended  with  the  cereal. 

The  cheese  should  be  mild  in  flavor  and  soft  in  texture. 
The  proportion  of  cheese  used  may  be  increased  if  a  more 
pronounced  cheese  flavor  is  desired. 

BOILED  RICE  —  JAPANESE  METHOD 

I  cup  rice  5  cups  boiling  water 

ij4  teaspoons  salt 
Wash  the  rice  thoroughly  by  pouring  boiling  water  over 
it  and  rinsing  in  several  pans  of  cold  water.  To  the  actively 
boiling  water  add  the  salt  and  the  washed  rice ;  cover  and 
set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  where  it  will  boil  slowly  for 
fifteen  minutes;  then  place  in  the  oven,  still  covered,  for 
fifteen  minutes  more.  At  the  end  of  this  time,  each  grain 
should  be  soft  and  tender,  yet  whole  and  distinct. 

GLUTEN  MUSH 
ij^  cups  gluten  meal  i  quart  water 

I  teaspoon  salt 

When  the  water  is  boiling,  add  the  salt,  and  stir  in 
quickly  and  lightly  the  gluten  meal.  Cook  a  few  minutes 
over  tihe  fire,  and  serve. 

CREAMED  GLUTEN  MUSH 
ij^.  pints  milk  i  cup  gluten  meal 

Yi  pint  cream  i  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  the  same  as  for  gluten  mush. 


CEREALS  13 

HOMINY  MUSH 

Yi  cup  fine  hominy  3  cups  boiling  water 

Yi  teaspoon  salt 

Put  all  the  ingredients  in  a  double  boiler,  and  cook  two 
hours.     Add  more  water  if  the  mush  is  too  thick. 

CREAMED  HOMINY 

I  pint  hominy  J4  cup  milk 

J4  cup  cream  i  tablespoon  butter 

y^  teaspoon  salt 
Heat  the  hominy;  add  the  milk,  cream,  butter  and  lastly 
the  salt.     Cook  together  five  minutes,  and  serve.     If  de- 
sired, milk  only  may  be  used,  in  which  case  add  an  addi- 
tional tablespoon  of  butter. 

SCOTCH  BRAN  BROSE 

I  cup  rolled  oats      ^  2j4  cups  water 

I  cup  sterilized  bran  i  teaspoon  salt 

,  Heat  the  water  to  boiling  in  a  double  boiler.     Add  the 
salt,  bran  and  the  rolled  oats  and  boil  ten  minutes. 

TO  STERILIZE  BRAN 

Remove  all  foreign  substances  from  the  bran,  and  place 
in  a  rather  shallow  pan  in  a  moderate  oven.  Put  a  pan  of 
hot  water  in  the  oven  to  prevent  burning.  Bake  half  an 
hour,  stirring  the  bran  to  prevent  scorching. 

FARINA 

I  quart  water  i  teaspoon  salt 

Yi  cup  farina  i  cup  milk 

Heat  the  water  to  boiling  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double 
boiler;  add  the  salt;  moisten  the  farina  with  the  milk,  taking 
care  to  stir  it  constantly  until  thick.  Boil  five  minutes,  then 
set  in  the  outer  boiler,  and  cook  one  hour  or  more.  The 
flavor  may  be  increased  by  using  one-half  milk. 


14         MEATLESS  COOKERY 

BARLEY  JELLY 

3  tablespoons  pearl  barley  J^  saltspoon  salt 

I  quart  cold  water 

Soak  the  barley  over  night,  drain,  and  add  the  quart  of 
cold  water  and  salt.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  four 
hours. 

OAT  JELLY 

I  cup  Rolled  Oats  J^  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  boiling  water 

Add  the  oats  and  salt  to  boiling  water  gradually.  Boil 
two  minutes,  then  steam  in  a  double  boiler  forty-five  min- 
utes to  one  hour. 

PEARL  BARLEY  WITH  DATES 

I  cup  pearl  barley  i  teaspoon  salt 

5  cups  water  i  cup  seeded  dates 

Carefully  look  over,  and  wash  the  barley;  then  cook  in 
boiling  water  for  ten  minutes.  Set  in  a  double  boiler  and 
continue  cooking  for  four  hours. 

GRAHAM  MUSH  WITH  DATES 
I  cup  graham  flour  i  cup  dates 

3  cups  water  i  teaspoon  salt 

Have  the  water  boiling  rapidly;  add  the  salt,  and  stir  in 
the  dry  flour,  sifting  it  in  quite  quickly.  A  long  handled 
spoon  should  be  used  for  stirring.  Cook  at  least  one  hour. 
Clean  the  dates,  remove  the  stones,  and  cut  each  date  into 
quarters.     Add  the  dates  just  before  the  mush  is  cooked. 


BREAD,  ETC. 

"  A  loaf  of  bread,"  the  Walrus  said, 
"  Is  what  we  chiefly  need. 
Pepper  and  vinegar  beside. 
Are  very  good  indeed." 

Lewis  Carroll. 

BREAD 

4  pounds  and  2  ounces  of  flour       1^4  pints  of  water 
54  ounce  of  yeast  54  ounce  of  salt 

A  bread-mixer  should  be  used  in  making  this  bread.  Best 
seconds  flour  is  better  than  superfine  flour.  The  water  must 
be  warm,  but  not  too  hot  to  bear  the  hand  In.  Dissolve  the 
yeast  in  the  water;  add  the  salt,  and  stir  all  well  together. 
Pour  the  liquid  into  the  bread-mixer.  Now  add  the  flour 
which  must  be  sifted.  Fasten  the  top  on  the  mixer,  and  turn 
the  handle  for  exactly  three  minutes.  Remove  the  cover, 
and  have  ready  a  well-floured  pastry-board.  Take  a  large 
knife  and  remove  the  dough  from  the  central  screw,  divide 
it  into  four  equal  parts,  and  place  each  part  in  a  well- 
greased  bread-tin.  Let  the  tins  stand  in  a  warm  place  for 
one  hour  to  rise.  The  plate  rack  above  an  ordinary  kitchen 
stove  is  a  good  place.  Then  put  them  in  a  very  moderately 
heated  oven,  and  after  the  first  twenty  minutes  increase  the 
heat  until  it  is  hot,  but  not  so  hot  as  is  required  for  pastry. 
The  loaves  must  bake  for  an  hour.  Bread  is  much  better 
baked  in  tins ;  but  if  tins  are  not  used,  the  dough  must  be  di- 
vided into  four,  and  formed  into  round  cakes  and  placed  on 
the  oven  shelves,  which  must  be  first  floured.  Three-quarters 
of  an  hour  to  rise,  and  the  same  to  bake  will  then  be  quite 

IS 


1 6  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

long  enough.    Great  care  should  be  taken  in  weighing  and 
measuring  the  quantities. 

WHITE  BREAD 

In  a  quart  measure,  dissolve  ond  yeast  cake,  add  one 
tablespoon  of  salt,  three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons melted  butter.  Fill  the  measure  half  milk  and  half 
water,  lukewarm,  and  pour  into  bread-mixer.  Add  three 
quarts  of  sifted  flour,  and  turn  the  handle  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Cover  and  let  it  rise  until  double  in  bulk;  when 
properly  risen,  turn  the  handle  a  few  times  to  collect  the 
dough  on  die  kneading  blade,  and  remove  to  the  board. 
This  makes  four  loaves. 

MILK  BREAD 

Scalded  milk  ij^,  tablespoons  butter 

Yi  cake  compressed  yeast  J^  tablespoon  of  salt 

J4  tablespoon  sugar  ij4  quarts  sifted  flour 

Put  into  a  pint  measure  the  butter,  salt  and  one-half  cup 
of  boiling  water.  Fill  it  up  with  scalded  milk.  When  luke- 
warm, stir  and  pour  into  bread-mixer,  keeping  back  enough 
of  the  liquid  to  thoroughly  dissolve  the  yeast.  Add  the  dis- 
solved yeast  to  the  other  liquids  in  the  bread-mixer  and  lastly, 
the  sifted  flour,  slightly  warmed.  Knead  five  minutes  in  the 
mixer.  Set  away  in  a  warm  place  for  one  and  one-half  hours 
or  until  the  dough  is  light.  Knead  again  for  five  minutes. 
Set  away  in  a  warm  place  for  an  hour  or  more  until  well 
risen.  Turn  upon  a  molding  board  and  shape  in  loaves. 
Place  in  buttered  pans,  and  put  in  a  warm  place  until  light. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Remove  from 
the  pan  and  place  the  loaves  in  such  a  position  that  the  air 
will  reach  all  sides.  This  will  form  a  crisp  crust.  To  ob- 
tain a  soft  crust,  wrap  in  a  cloth. 


BREAD,  ETC.  17 

SELF-RISING  BREAD 

Yi  cup  cornmeal  2j4  cups  flour 

J4  cup  scalded  milk  2  tablespoons  butter 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  i  tablespoon  sugar 

2  cups  milk  and  water  i  teaspoon  salt 

Flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough 

Scald  the  meal  and  salt  with  one-half  cup  of  milk,  and  let 
it  stand  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morning,  set 
the  bowl  in  water,  as  warm  as  the  hand  can  hear.  During 
the  whole  process  keep  the  bread  at  this  temperature ;  when 
this  is  light,  add  it  to  the  remainder  of  the  scalded  milk  and 
water  which  has  been  allowed  to  cool.  Add  the  butter, 
sugar,  salt  and  flour,  and  beat  this  batter  thoroughly.  Set 
it  in  warm  water  again  to  rise;  when  light,  add  the  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  dough,  knead  well,  put  in  pans,  and  when 
risen  again,  bake  for  about  45  minutes. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

2  cups  scalded  milk  ij^  teaspoons  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  i  yeast  cake  dissolved 
2-3  teaspoons  sugar                           J4  cup  lukewarm  water 

About  5^  cups  flour 
To  the  hot  milk,  add  the  butter,  sugar  and  salt.  When 
lukewarm,  add  the  dissolved  yeast  cake,  and  three  cups  of 
the  flour.  Beat  thoroughly.  Cover  and  let  it  rise  until 
light.  Cut  down,  and  add  about  two  and  a  half  cups  of 
flour  to  knead.  Let  it  rise  again.  Toss  on  a  slightly  floured 
board.  Knead  and  roll  out  to  one-third  inch  in  thickness. 
Cut  with  a  large  floured  biscuit  cutter.  Dip  the  handle  of  the 
knife  in  flour,  and  with  it  make  a  crease  through  the  middle 
of  €ach  piece.  Brush  one-half  of  each  piece  with  melted 
butter,  fold  and  press  edges  together.  Arrange  about  one 
inch  apart  in  buttered  pans.  Cover,  let  rise,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes  until  delicately 
browned. 


1 8  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

WHOLE  WHEAT  BREAD 

2  cups  scalded  milk  3  cups  whole  wheat  flour 

I  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  white  flour 

I  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  J^  cup     J4  cup  molasses 
lukewarm  water  i  tablespoon  butter 

Add  the  sugar  and  salt  to  the  milk;  when  lukewarm  add 
the  yeast,  butter  and  flour.  Place  on  a  floured  board  and 
knead  lightly  to  prevent  the  dough  sticking  to  the  board. 
Put  in  a  warm  place,  and  let  it  rise.  Form  into  loaves  and 
let  it  rise  again,  then  bake.  Add  the  molasses  after  the 
first  raising. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD,  NO  i 

I  cup  corn  meal  2  cups  sour  milk 

1  cup  rye  meal  2^4  teaspoons  soda 

1  cup  graham  flour  ^  cup  molasses 

I  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  ex,cepting  the  soda,  to- 
gether; dissolve  the  soda  in  the  sour  milk,  and  add  the  molas- 
ses. Beat  thoroughly,  turn  into  buttered  tins,  and  steam 
3J^  hours. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD,  NO.  2 

I  cup  white  flour  j4  cup  molasses 

I  cup  corn  meal  i%  cups  sweet  milk 

I  cup  graham  flour  ^  teaspoon  soda 

I  teaspoon  salt  I  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Mix  dry  ingredients.  To  half  of  dry  Ingredients  add 
soda,  and  to  the  other  half,  add  molasses  and  milk,  then  the 
baking  powder.  Mix  thoroughly.  Add  remaining  dry  in- 
gredients, and  steam  In  cans  for  three  and  one-.half  hours. 
Dry  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  before  serving.  This 
makes  excellent  toast. 


BREAD,  ETC.  19 

FRUIT  BREAD 

2^  cups  potato  water  or  milk       2  tablespoons  butter 
3  teaspoons  salt  i  pound  raisins 

I  tablespoon  sugar  i  yeast  cake 

2  quarts  flour 

Dissolve  the  yeast  cake  in  a  little  warm  water.  Prepare 
the  potato  water  by  cooking  two  medium-sized  potatoes  in 
a  little  more  than  a  pint  of  water.  Press  through  a  colander, 
and  measure.  While  lukewarm,  add  the  salt,  sugar,  yeast, 
melted  butter  and  raisins.  Warm  the  flour  slightly  and  add 
gradually  to  the  liquid.  Stir  in  slowly  enough  flour  to 
knead  well,  but  not  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Keep  in 
a  warm  place  for  one  and  a  half  hours  until  light.  Knead 
and  let  it  rise  again  an  hour  or  more.  Knead  again  lightly, 
and  form  into  loaves.  Let  it  rise  in  the  pans  about  an  hour 
then  ibake  for  forty-five  minutes.  If  potato  water  is  not 
used,  the  same  amount  of  water  and  milk  in  equal  quantities 
may  be  substituted. 

CORN  BREAD 

I  cup  corn  meal  2  teaspoons  salt 

5  cups  white  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

I  tablespoon  sugar  1%  cups  water  and  milk 

J^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  54  cup  warm  water 

Prepare  and  bake  this  recipe  the  same  as  for  fruit  bread, 
omitting  the  raisins. 

SOFT  GRAHAM  BREAD 

ij^  quarts  graham  flour  J^  cup  molasses 

1  pint  white  flour  or 

2  teaspoons  salt  J^  cup  brown  sugar  and  %  cup 
I  cake  compressed  yeast  honey 

3  cups  warm  water  i  tablespoon  butter 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  order  given,  a,dding  sufficient  warm 
water  to  make  a  soft  dough.    Beat  the  dough  thoroughly  and 


20  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

set  in  a  warm  place  for  about  three  hours,  until  it  is  light. 
Then  beat  again,  and  turn  it  into  bread  pans,  filling  them 
half  full.  When  the  bread  is  risen  to  about  three-fourths 
the  height  of  the  pan,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  45 
minutes  to  an  hour.  Graham  bread  should  not  rise  as  much 
as  white  bread. 

GRAHAM  BREAD 

ij^.  cups  graham  flour  ij4  cups  white  flour 

3  teaspoons  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

i^  cups  water'  3  tablespoons  molasses 

Little  salt 

Bake  one  hour.     This  recipe  makes  one  loaf. 

NUT  BREAD 

ij/^  cups  milk  4  cups  flour 

I  teaspoon  salt  i  cup  chopped  walnut  meats 

Yi  cup  sugar  6  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Put  the  sugar  in  a  large  bowl.  Sift  the  flour,  salt  and 
baking  powder  together,  and  add  alternately  with  the  milk 
to  the  sugar.  Lastly,  fold  in  the  chopped  walnut  meats, 
and  turn  into  two  buttered  tins.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
forty  minutes. 

BANNOCKS 

I  pound  of  fine  oatmeal  i  ounce  of  butter 

Yi  ounce  of  baking  powder  i  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  together  the  oatmeal  and  baking  powder,  rub  in  the 
butter,  and  make  into  a  stiff  dough  with  water.  Roll 
out  as  thin  as  possible;  cut  into  rounds  with  a  tumbler. 
Butter  a  frying-pan,  and  cook  a  few  at  a  time;  when  done 
on  one  side,  turn  carefully.  Serve  with  butter  or  syrup.  If 
more  convenient  they  may  be  cooked  on  a  well  heated  soap- 
stone  griddle  and  turned  with  a  cake  lifter. 


BREAD,  ETC.  21 

SCOTCH  OATEN  CAKES 

2  cups  oatmeal  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  flour  3  tablespoons  butter 

J^  cup  or  more  of  cold  water 

Sift  the  flour,  oatmeal  and  salt  together,  and  chop  the 
butter  into  it.  Mix  with  cold  water  into  a  stiff  dough. 
Knead  and  roll  into  very  thin  cakes.  Roll  out  into  a  round 
piece  and  cut  the  circle  into  quarters.  Bake  in  the  toasting 
oven  directly  under,  but  not  too  near,  the  flame,  for  eight 
to  ten  minutes,  until  delicately  browned  on  both  sides. 

GOLDEN  CORN  CAKE 

■^  cup  yellow  com  meal  J4'  teaspoon  salt 

iJ4  cups  flour  I  tablespoon  melted  butter 

2  tablespoons  sugar  i  cup  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  mix  with  the  milk. 
Add  the  melted  butter.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pan,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

LANCASHIRE  POTATO  CAKE 

1  pound  of  mashed  potatoes  2  ounces  of  butter 

J4  pound  of  flour  ^  pint  of  milk 

Yi  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

The  potatoes  should  be  quite  dry  before  they  are  put 
through  the  potato  masher.  Rub  the  butter  in  the  flour; 
then  mix  the  potatoes  and  flour  together.  Stir  in  the  milk, 
and  roll  out  on  a  well-floured  pastry-board  about  half  an 
inch  thick.  Cut  into  cakes  the  size  of  a  breakfast  saucer, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  The  cakes  can  be  split  and  a 
little  butter  spread  between,  or  they  can  be  served  plain. 
They  must  be  sent  to  .table  very  hot,  and  are  best  as  a 
breakfast  dish. 


22  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

PANCAKES 

1^'  pint  of  milk  i  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  ounces  of  flour  Butter 

Mix  the  flour  and  baking  powder  together,  adding  the 
milk  slowly.  Put  the  batter  aside,  for  at  least  two  hours, 
or  the  pancakes  will  not  be  light.  Use  a  six-inch  frying- 
pan  and  for  this  size  half  a  teacup  of  batter  will  be  required 
and  a  piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Just  let  the 
butter  get  hot,  and  thoroughly  grease  the  pan  before  putting 
in  the  batter.  Turn  with  a  broad-bladed  knife  as  soon  as 
brown,  and  brown  on  the  other  side.  Roll  when  done,  and 
sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  pancakes. 

BUCKWHEAT  PANCAKES 

4  tablespoons  of  buckwheat  meal  J^  pint  of  milk 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Sprinkle  the  meal  a  little  at  a  time  with  the  milk,  and  beat 
well  for  ten  minutes;  let  it  stand  for  one  hour;  then  fry  as 
ordinary  pancakes  in  a  small  frying-pan  that  has  had  a  well- 
greased  piece  of  paper  rubbed  over  it,  or  on  a  soap-stone 
griddle.     Serve  very  hot  with  syrup  or  sugar. 

DEVONSHIRE  CUTROUND 

8  ounces  of  flour  A  small  teaspoon  of  baking  pow- 

I  ounce  of  butter  der 

Little  less  than  half  a  pint  of  water 

Mix  the  flour,  butter  and  baking  powder  together  thor- 
oughly; add  the  water.  Roll  out,  and  cut  in  rounds  about 
one  inch  in  thickness,  with  a  tumbler.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
and  serve  hot,  cut  in  two  and  buttered.  If  each  round  is 
brushed  lightly  with  milk  it  will  be  colored  a  richer  brown 
but  care  must  be  taken  that  they  are  not  burned. 


BREAD,  ETC.  23 

FRUIT  LOAF 

12  ounces  of  sultanas  i  pound  of  flour 

J4  teaspoon  of  carbonate  of  8  ounces  of  Albene  or  oil 

soda  y^  pint  of  milk 

Rub  the  Albene  and  flour  together;  when  well  mixed,  add 
the  sultanas.  Put  the  soda  into  the  milk.  Beat  all  thor- 
oughly together;  put  into  a  well-greased  baking  tin,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter. 

JOHNNY  CAKE 

I  breakfast-cup  of  Maize  meal         ij4  ounces  of  butter 
ij^  breakfast-cups  of  flour  J^  teacup  of  milk 

I  teacup  of  sugar  Baking  powder 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add  the  sugar  and  baking- 
powder;  add  milk  to  die  dry  ingredients,  forming  a  very 
thick  batter.  Bake  in  a  well-greased,  shallow  baking-tin,  in 
a  moderately  hot  oven  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Cut  open  and  butter  while  hot ;  or  it  may  be  eaten  cold.  A 
teacup  of  sultanas  may  be  added  if  liked. 

AERATED  NtJT  PUFFS 

I  teaspoon  salt  Yz  cup  of  milk 

Y3  cup  cream  ij4.  cups  white  flour 

J4  cup  chopped  nuts 

Mix  the  milk,  cream  and  salt.  Dredge  the  nuts  in  a  part 
of  the  flour,  and  addthe  remainder  of  the  flour  to  the  milk. 
Beat  about  five  minutes  or  until  the  batter  is  smooth  and  light. 
Lastly,  fold  in  the  chopped  nuts.  Bake  in  hot  buttered  gem 
irons,  taking  care  to  fill  the  cups  to  the  level.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes. 

Currants,  raisins  or  chopped  dates  may  be  used  instead  of 
the  nuts.  These  puffs  should  be  served  hot,  as  they  become 
solid  when  cold. 


24  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

ASH  CAKE 

1  quart  corn  meal     2  teaspoons  salt  i  tablespoon  shortening 

Boiling  water 

Scald  the  meal ;  add  the  salt  and  shortening,  and  when  the 
mixture  is  cool,  form  it  into  oblong  cakes,  adding  more  water 
if  necessary.  Wrap  the  cakes  in  cabbage  leaves,  or  place  one 
cabbage  leaf  under  the  cakes  and  one  over  them,  and  cover 
them  with  hot  ashes. 

INDIAN  MEAL  BREAD 

ij^'  cups  graham  flour  i  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  corn  meal  J4  cup  molasses 
Yi  teaspoon  soda  i%  cups  milk 

Mix  and  steam  as  Boston  brown  bread. 

APPLE  CORN  BREAD 

2  cups  white  com  meal  i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
2  tablespoons  sugar  1^4  cups  milk 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  3  tart  apples  pared  and  sliced 

I  teaspoon  soda 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  milk,  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Add  the  apples.  Pour  into  a  well-buttered  sliallow  pan, 
and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

SOUTH  CAROLINA  CORN  BREAD 

lYz  quarts  fine  com  meal  ij^  quarts  wheat  flour 

2Y2  quarts  wheat  flour  2  teaspoons  salt 

or  I  pint  mashed  sweet  potatoes 

2^1  quarts  fine  corn  meal  i  cake  yeast 

Mix  one  pint  each  of  the  corn  meal  and  the  flour  and  add 
warm  water  enough  to  form  a  stiff  batter.  Add  the  yeast 
cake,  mixed  with  a  small  amount  of  water.  Keep  this 
sponge  in  a  warm  place  until  it  becomes  light.  Scald  the 
meal  with  boiling  water  and  as  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough  add 
it  to  the  sponge,  with  the  flour,  potatoes  and  salt.     The 


BREAD,  ETC.  25 

dough  should  be  just  thick  enough  to  knead  without  danger 
of  its  sticking  to  the  board.  Experience  will  teach  how  much 
water  to  use  to  secure  this  end.  Knead  well,  and  put  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise.  When  it  is  light,  form  into  loaves,  put 
into  bread  pans,  and  let  it  rise  until  its  volume  is  doubled. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

It  was  a  common,  though  not  general,  practice  in  New 
England  to  add  cooked  pumpkin  to  the  other  ingredients  in 
making  such  bread  as  this,  very  much  as  sweet  potato  is  used 
in  the  South.  The  sweet  potato  or  pumpkin  changes  the 
flavor  of  the  bread  somewhat  and  apparently  facilitates  the 
rising  of  the  dou^,  improves  the  texture  of  the  bread,  and 
tends  to  keep  it  moist.  However,  if  sweet  potato  or  pump- 
kin, either  home  cooked  or  canned,  can  not  be  conveniently 
obtained,  good  bread  can  be  made  without  it. 

GLUTEN  AND  CORN  BREAD 

25^  cups  yellow  or  white  corn     J^  yeast  cake  or  i  cake  dissolved 
meal  in  J4  cup  lukewarm  water 

^    cup    gluten,    rye   or   wheat     2  tablespoons  butter 
flour,  preference  being  in  or-     3  teaspoons  salt 
der  named  I  tablespoon  sugar 

lyi  cups  boiling  water 

Pour  the  corn  meal  into  a  dish  of  boiling  water.  It  is  not 
sufficient  merely  to  pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  meal  in 
a  cold  dish.  If  yellow  meal  is  used,  heat  it  a  litde  in  addi- 
tion to  pouring  it  into  the  boiling  water,  or  mix  meal  and 
water  and  heat  in  a  double  boiler.  When  cool  mix  with 
the  other  ingredients  and  knead  thoroughly.  Place  in  a 
baking  dish,  and  bake  when  risen  su^ciently. 

THIRD  BREAD 

2  quarts  yellow  corn  meal  :J4  cup  molasses 

2  teaspoons  salt  l  quart  rye  flour 

Eoiling  water  I  yeast  cake 


26  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Mix  the  corn  meal  and  salt  and  pour  over  them  enough 
boiling  water  to  moisten  the  mixture  but  not  to  make  a  bat- 
ter. When  cool  add  the  molasses  and  the  yeast  mixed  with 
a  little  water.  Add  the  rye  flour  to  the  corn  meal  mixture 
gradually,  alternating  it,  if  necessary,  with  lukewarm  water 
in  order  to  keep  the  dough  thin  enough  to  be  stirred  with  a 
spoon.  Let  it  rise  until  light,  form  into  a  loaf,  and  bake  in 
a  slow  oven  four  or  five  hours. 

ZUfn  INDIAN  BREAD 

I  cup  white  corn  meal  i  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  yellow  corn  meal  }i  teaspoon  cayenne 

I  cup  water  i  cup  chopped  butter 

Mix  all  well  together;  form  into  rolls  about  five  inches 
long;  roll  in  greased  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
one  hour.  Serve  hot.  The  Indians  roll  these  cakes  in 
husks  of  corn. 

FRUIT  GEMS 

I  cup  corn  meal  }4  cup  raisins 

I  cup  milk  J4  cup  Zante  raisins 

I  teaspoon  salt  J^  cup  cream 

I  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Cook  the  meal  and  salt  in  the  milk  for  a  few  minutes. 
When  cool  add  the  baking  powder,  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Add  the  fruit  and  cream,  and  bake  in  well  buttered  muffin 
tins. 

CRISP  CORN  MEAL  CAKE 

I  cup  milk  }4  teaspoon  salt 

j/i  cup  white  com  meal 

Mix  the  ingredients  and  heat  slowly  until  the  boiling  point 
is  reached.  It  is  not  necessary  to  stir.  Spread  on  a  shal- 
low buttered  pan  to  a  depth  of  about  one-fourth  of  an  inch. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  crisp. 


BREAD,  ETC.  27 

PARCHED  CORN  MEAL  BISCUITS 

I  cup  yellow  corn  meal  2  cups  peanut  cream 

2  teaspoons  salt 

Put  the  meal  into  a  shallow  pan,  and  heat  in  the  oven  until 
it  is  a  delicate  brown,  stirring  frequently.  Make  the  nut 
cream  by  mixing  peanut  butter  with  cold  water  and  heating. 
It  should  be  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  While  the  nut 
r.ream  is  hot,  stir  in  the  com  meal  which  should  be  hot.  Beat 
thoroughly.  The  mixture  should  be  of  such  consistency  that 
it  can  be  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Bake  in  small  cakes  on  a 
greased  pan. 

If  preferred,  these  biscuits  may  be  made  with  cream  or 
with  butter  in  place  of  peanut  cream,  and  chopped  raisins 
jTiay  be  added,  one  cup  being  the  allowance  for  the  quanti- 
ties given  above. 

BEATEN  CORN  BREAD  . 

^  cup  white  com  meal  J^  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  white  flour  i  tablespoon  butter 

I  teaspoon  sugar  Water 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  rub  the  butter 
thoroughly  into  the  mixture  by  means  of  a  fork.  Add  a 
little  water,  enough  to  moisten  the  mixture  throughout,  but 
not  too  much,  as  it  must  be  crumbly.  Spread  on  a  board, 
and  beat  thoroughly  with  a  rolling  pin  or  mallet,  as  is  done 
with  beaten  biscuits,  folding  it  over  frequently  to  introduce 
air.  RoU  out  about  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  into  small 
pieces,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  In  camp  this  can  be 
baked  in  a  hot  greased  pan  propped  up  before  a  hot  fire. 
When  cooked  there  should  be  a  layer  of  custard  on  top  of 
the  cake  or  small  bits  of  custard  distributed  through  it. 

A  patent  beating  machine  is  now  on  the  market  which  gives 
the  same  result  as  a  rolling-pin  with  a  greater  saving  of  time 
and  muscle.     Serve  the  bread  hot  with  plenty  of  butter. 


28  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

CORN  MEAL  ROLLS 

Ij4  cups  wheat  flour  Yz  cup  milk 

54  cup  corn  meal  i  teaspoon  salt 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  butter 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  and  mix 
with  the  meal.  Rub  the  butter  into  the  dry  ingredients;  add 
the  milk  to  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  more  milk  if  neces- 
sary to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  on  a  floured  board, 
handling  lightly.  Cut  with  a  round  biscuit  cutter,  fold  like 
Parker  House  rolls,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

POP-OVERS 

2  cups  flour  2  cups  milk 

J^i  teaspoon  salt  i  tablespoon  melted  butter 

2  tablespoons  baking  powder 

Sift  the  salt  and  flour  and  baking  powder;  add  the  milk 
gradually,  stirring  constantly  to  get  a  smooth  batter.  Add 
the  butter  and  beat  two  minutes.  Turn  into  a  hot  buttered 
gem  pan,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

CREAM  CRISPS 

2  cups  graham  flour  2  tablespoons  sugar 

2  cups  white  flour  ij^  cups  cream 

I  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  sugar  together  in  a  bowl;  pour  the 
cream  into  the  flour  slowly,  a  few  spoons  at  a  time,  mixing 
each  spoon  to  a  dough  with  the  flour  as  fast  as  poured  in. 
When  all  the  liquid  has  been  added,  gather  the  fragments 
of  dough  together.  Knead  thoroughly  for  from  five  to  ten 
minutes ;  roll  very  thin ;  cut  in  two  inch  lengths.  Prick  with 
a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Serve  hot  with  butter.  Any  that  are  left  over  can  be  re- 
heated in  the  oven. 


BREAD,  ETC.  29 

CORN  PONE 

I  pint  corhmeal  i  teaspoon  sugar 

iJ4  cups  boiling  water  J^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Dissolve  the  sugar  and  salt  in  the  water ;  work  the  butter 
into  the  cornmeal,  then  add  the  boiling  water;  cover  and 
stand  ten  minutes ;  shape  into  oblong  cakes  two  and  one-half 
inches  long.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

HOE  CAKE 

I  pint  yellow  cornmeal  i  pint  milk 

54  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

Yi  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  together  with  the  butter.  Scald 
the  milk  and  pour  into  the  meal,  stirring  constantly.  Cook 
directly  over  the  fire  until  thickened.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on 
a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  evenly  browned. 

BEATEN  BISCUITS 

I  quart  pastry  flour  i  teaspoon  salt 

J4  cup  butter  5^  cup  of  water  or  milk 

Sift  the  flour  and  salt  together,  and  work  in  the  butter. 
Moisten  with  sufficient  ice  water  to  fofiii  a  stiff  dough. 
Place  on  a  floured  board,  and  beat  with  the  rolling  pin 
thirty  minutes,  taking  care  to  fold  the  dough  over  every 
few  seconds,  or  pass  the  dough  through  a  beaten  biscuit 
machine  for  twenty  minutes,  folding  each  time  the  dough  is 
passed  through.  Roll  to  one-third  inch  in  thickness,  cut  into 
little  round  cakes  with  biscuit-cutter,  and  prick  with  a  fork. 
Place  in  pie  tins  or  o|i  baking  sheets,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  These  biscuits  are  made  suc- 
cessfully by  hand  by  the  cooks  in  the  South  but  as  a  general 
rule  the  use  of  the  beating  machine  is  more  satisfactory. 


30  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

VANH.LA  BISCUITS 

4  ounces  of  flour  2  ounces  of  butter 

4  ounces  of  pine  kernels  i  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

1  ounce  of  sugar  2  drops  of  essence  of  vanilla 

Put  the  pine  kernels  twice  through  a  nut  mill.  Rub  the 
butter  into  the  flour  free  from  lumps,  add  the  sugar  and 
ground  pine  kernels,  and  then  the  baking  powder  and  vanilla, 
and  mix  all  together  thoroughly.  Roll  out  a  moderately 
thin  paste,  cut  into  rounds,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS 

2  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder  i  cup  milk  or  water 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  dry  ingredients  twice,  cut  in  the  butter  with  a  knife. 
Stir  in  gradually  the  liquid;  mix  as  soft  as  can  be  handled. 
Put  the  dough  on  a  well-floured  board,  pat  lightly  to  one  inch 
thickness,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  put  on  a  buttered  tin,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  20  minutes.  Put  a  little  milk  on  top 
of  each  biscuit  before  baking  to  make  them  brown  well. 

CREAM  BISCUITS 

2  cups  flour  ^  to  I  cup  of  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yz  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  and  sift.  Work  in  the  butter, 
add  the  liquids  gradually,  mixing  with  a  knife  to  a  soft 
dough.  Place  on  a  floured  board,  shape  with  a  biscuit  cut- 
ter and  bake  in  a  buttered  pan  in  a  hot  oven  twelve  or  fifteen 
minutes. 

A  richer  color  is  obtained  by  brushing  the  top  of  the 
biscuits  lightly  with  milk  before  putting  in  the  oven. 


BREAD,  ETC.  31 

FRUIT  BISCUITS 

2  cups  of  flour  2  teaspoons  citron  finely  chopped 

^  teaspoon  salt  ys  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  tahlespoons  sugar  ^     cup     seeded     raisins    finely 

2  tablespoons  butter  chopped 

%  cup  milk  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  the  flour,  butter,  salt,  milk,  and  baking  powder  the 
same  as  for  cream  biscuit. 

Roll  to  one-fourth  inch  thickness,  and  spread  with  soft 
butter  not  included  in  the  recipe.  Sprinkle'  with  sugar,  cin- 
namon and  fruit,  and  roll  like  a  jelly  roll.  Cut  in  three- 
quarter  inch  slices,  place  in  a  buttered  tin,  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Chopped  raisins  may  be  used 
in  place  of  the  currants. 

GRAHAM  HURRY-UPS 

I  cup  white  flour  yi  cup  milk 

1  cup  graham  flour  J^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Sift  the  salt,  graham  flour,  white  flour  and  baking  powder 
together.  Return  the  bran,  which  is  removed  by  the  sifting, 
to  the  flour,  looking  over  it  carefully  to  remove  any  foreign 
substances.  Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  pour  the  milk 
into  the  flour  mixture  and  mix  all  together.  Drop  by  des- 
sertspoonfuls on  an  oiled  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about 
twelve  minutes. 

BUNS 

1  cup  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 
Yz  cup  sugar  %  yeast  cake 

2  cups  flour  J4  cup  warm  water 

Make  a  sponge  of  these  ingredients.  Beat  thoroughly, 
and  when  light,  add  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  but  one  which 
will  not  stick  to  the  board.  Knead,  and  let  it  rise  until  it 
is  twice  its  original  size;  then  add:  — 


32  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Yi  cup  butter  softened  J4  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  nut- 

Yi  cup  currants  meg 

Let  it  rise  until  light,  then  shape  into  small  round  cakes, 
and  place  them  in  a  buttered  pan;  when  light,  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  forty  minutes.  When  the  cakes  have  balced 
for  fifteen  minutes,  glaze  with  a  mixture  of  milk  and  sugar, 
I  tablespoon  sugar,  one-quarter  cup  of  milk,  and  repeat  this 
every  five  minutes. 

If  desired,  the  currants  and  spices  may  be  omitted. 

CINNAMON  BUNS 
Use  the  bun  dough,  and  roll  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 
Spread  with :  — 

y^  cup  butter  softened  2  tablespoons  cinnamon 

1  cup  currants  i  cup  brown  sugar 

Roll  the  dough  as  in  making  jelly  roll,  and  cut  into  slices 
one  inch  thick.  Place  in  well-greased  pans,  with  cut  sur- 
faces up.  When  very  light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty- 
five  minutes.  If  the  buns  are  desired  quite  moist,  brush  them 
over,  after  fifteen  minutes'  baking,  with  molasses.  Repeat 
this  every  ten  minutes  until  finished  baking. 

Care  must  be  taken  not  to  burn  the  molasses;  the  oven 
should  be  cooler  after  the  molasses  is  used. 

NUT  BUNS 

Yi,  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  sugar 

I  teaspoon  salt  J^  cake  compressed  yeast 

I  cup  white  flour  2  tablespoons  warm  water 

Scald  the  milk,  cool  to  lukewarm.  Dissolve  the  yeast  in 
the  warm  water.  To  the  warm  milk  add  the  salt,  sugar, 
dissolved  yeast  cake  and  the  flour.  Set  in  a  warm  place,  and 
let  rise  an  hour  or  more,  or  until  light  and  foamy,  then  add 
the  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one-half  cup  chopped  nuts 
and  about  one  and  one-half  cups  flour.     Knead  thoroughly. 


BREAD,  ETC.  33 

Let  rise  about  one  and  one-half  hours,  or  until,  light.  Shape 
into  buns.  Brush  the  tops  of  the  buns  with  melted  butter 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  chopped  nuts.  Let  rise  again 
until  light  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

MUFFINS 

2  cups  bread  flour  I  cup  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

I  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  milk  slowly  and 
the  melted  butter.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  in  buttered  gem 
pans.  Let  them  stand  in  the  oven  after  baking,  with  the 
door  ajar,  that  the  crust  may  be  dry  and  crisp. 

BLUEBERRY  MUFFINS 

1  cup  fresh  blueberries  ^  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  cups  sifted  flour 
2  tablespoons  sugar  j4  teaspoon  salt 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Sift  the  baking  powder,  flour  and  salt  together.  Cream 
the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  milk  and  the  dry  ingredients 
alternately.     At  the  last  fold  in  the  blueberries. 

DATE  MUFFINS 

J4  cup  butter  2  cups  white  flour 

j4-  cup  sugar  J4  teaspoon  salt 

54  cup  milk  J4  pound  dates 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Put  the  dates  in  cold  water.  Remove  the  seeds,  and  then 
wash  in  hot  water.  Cut  in  small  pieces.  Currants  or  raisins 
may  be  used  if  preferred.  Sift  the  baking  powder,  salt  and 
flour  together.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  milk 
and  the  flour  alternately,  and  lastly,  fold  in  the  chopped 
dates.  Bake  in  buttered  muffin  tins  twenty  to  twenty-five 
minutes  in  hot  oven. 


34  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

RICE  MUFFINS 

2%  cups  flour  I  cup  milk 

54  cup  hot  cooked  rice  }^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  baking  powder,\  sugar  and  salt  to- 
gether. Add  the  milk  to  the  dry  ingredients.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Add  the  butter  and  fold  in  the  rice ;  it  will  take  a 
scant  quarter  of  a  cup  of  raw  rice  to  make  three-quarters  of 
a  cup  of  boiled  rice.  Turn  into  buttered  gem  pans,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

RAISED  MUFFINS 

1  pint  of  milk  scalded  J^  teaspoon  salt 
^2  yeast-cake  2j^  cups  of  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  J4  cup  warm  water 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  butter,  sugar  and  salt.  When 
lukewarm,  add  the  yeast  dissolved  in  quarter  of  a  cup  of  luke- 
warm water.  Stir  in  enough  flour  to  bake  a  drop  batter, 
cover  with  a  cloth,  place  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  over  night. 
In  the  morning,  stir  it,  and  pour  into  greased  muflSin-rings 
on  a  hot  soapstone  griddle,  filling  the  rings  half  full  of  batter. 
Turn  the  muffins  with  a  pancake  turner,  and  bake  them  on 
both  sides  until  a  thin  brown  crust  is  formed. 

SALLY  LUNN 

I  quart  of  flour  i  quart  warm  milk 

I  tablespoon  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  sugar 

I  tablespoon  butter  Pinch  of  salt 

Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together,  then  stir  in  the 
milk  in  which  the  butter  has  been  melted.  If  too  stiff,  add 
milk  until  it  is  as  light  as  a  cup  cake  batter.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 


BREAD,  ETC.  35 

BRAN  GEMS 

I  cup  sterilized  bran  i  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  graham  flour  i  tablespoon  sugar 

^  cup  milk  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Mix  the  bran,  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar  to- 
gether. Add  the  milk  to  the  dry  ingredients.  Mix  well, 
and  add  the  melted  butter.  Turn  into  buttered  muffin  pans, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,. 

BRAN  MUFFINS  NO.  i 

I  cup  flour  2  cups  bran 

1  teaspoon  soda  i  cup  milk 

J^  teaspoon  salt  aj4  tablespoons  molasses 

Mix  and  sift  flour,  soda  and  salt.  Add  bran,  molasses 
and  milk.     Bake  in  hot  buttered  gem  pans  twenty  minutes. 

BRAN  MUFFINS  NO.  2 

2  cups  bran  J4.  cup  butter 

1  cup  flour  3  tablespoons  molasses 

1  teaspoon  soda  i^  cups  sour  milk 

I  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients,  rub  in  the  butter;  add  molasses 
and  sour  milk;  put  into  hot  muffin  pans  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

FRUIT  BRAN  MUFFINS 

2  tablespoons  molasses  i  cup  entire  wheat  flour 
2  cups  milk        -                                 I  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  bran  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

J4  cup  English  walnut  meats  J^  cup  raisins 

Mix  molasses,  milk,  bran,  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  nut 
meats  broken  in  pieces,  and  raisins  cut  in  pieces.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven  in  muffin  tins  for  thirty  minutes. 


36  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

SCONES  NO.  I 
2  cups  of  flour  I  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  ounces  of  butter  J^  pint  of  milk 

Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  mix  in  the  baking  pow- 
der thoroughly,  then  add  the  milk.  Make  into  a  smooth 
dough,  and  roll  out  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick — 
make  any  shape  or  size  required — put  them  immediately  into 
a  moderate  oven,  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

SCONES  NO.  2 

4  ounces  of  butter  ij^  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

2  cups  of  flour  A  pinch  of  salt 

Yz  pint  of  milk 
Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  and  add  the  baking 
powder,  salt  and  milk.     Mix  all  together  thoroughly,  and 
make  into  cakes  about  half  an  inch  thick,  any  shape  desired, 
and  bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

SCOTCH  SCONES 

3  tumblers  of  flour  i  teaspoon  carbonate  of  soda 
I  tumbler  of  sweet  milk                   i  teaspoon  of  butter 

I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

^ix  the  cream  of  tartar  and  soda  with  the  flour,  rub  in 
the  butter,  and  add  the  milk  last.  Roll  out  lightly,  shape 
into  rounds,  and  bake  In  a  quick  oven  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.  Cut  open,  and  butter.  To  be  eaten  hot  or 
toasted. 

SODA  SCONES 

I  pound  of  flour  J4  teaspoon  soda 

J^,  pint  of  milk  J4  teaspoon  tartaric  acid 

2  ounces  of  butter 
Rub  the  tartaric  acid  and  soda  in  the  flour,  and  put  them 
through  a  sieve;  work  in  the  butter;  make  a  hole  in  the  mid- 
dle of  the  flour,  and  pour  in  the  milk,  mixing  as  quickly  as 


BREAD,  ETC.  37 

possible.  Roll  out,  about  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  into  rounds 
the  size  of  a  pudding  plate,  and  then  into  eight  wedge-shaped 
divisions. 

OAT  WAFERS 

I  cup  Rolled  Oats  I  tablespoon  sugar 

I  cup  wheat  preparation  I  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

Warm  water 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients.  Work  in  the  butter  and  add 
enough  water  to  hold  the  ingredients  together.  Place  on  a 
floured  board  and  roll  as  thinly  as  possible.  Shape  with  a 
cutter  or  cut  in  strips,  using  a  sharp  knife.  Bake  on  a  but- 
tered sheet  in  a  slow  oven  until  delicately  browned. 

CHEESE  CAKES 

3  tablespoons  butter  i  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  flour  Few  grains  cayenne 

4  tablespoons  grated  American  cheese 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  and  stir  until  well  mixed ; 
then  add  the  grated  cheese.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne. 
Drop  from  tip  of  spoon  on  a  buttered  sheet  one  inch  apart, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CHEESE  BISCUITS  NO.  i 

2  cups  of  flour  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  Grated  cheese  sufiicient  to  give 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  desired  flavor 

I  cup  of  milk 

Mix  all  the  ingredients,  excepting  the  cheese,  as  for  baking 
powder  biscuits.  Roll  thin,  divide  into  two  parts,  sprinkle 
one  half  with  grated  cheese,  lay  the  other  half  of  the  dough 
over  the  cheese,  cut  with  a  small  cutter,  and  bake.  The 
oven  should  be  hot  enough  to  bake  the  biscuits  quickly. 


38  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

CHEESE  BISCUITS  NO.  2 

%  pound  of  soft  cheese  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

2  cups  of  flour  I  teaspoon  of  salt 

I  cup  of  water 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  then  work  in  the  cheese 
with  a  fork,  and  add  the  water  slowly.  Place  the  dough  on 
a  floured  board,  roll  out,  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Put 
in  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  from  twelve  to 
fifteen  minutes.  The  biscuit  may  be  sprinkled  with  cheese 
before  being  put  into  the  oven. 

CHEESE  DROPS 

2%  tablespoons  milk  2  tablespoons  of  Parmesan  cheese 

1  teaspoon  of  butter  %  teaspoon  of  salt 

iJ4  cups  of  flour 
Heat  the  butter  and  milk  to  boiling  point,  add  the  flour  and 
salt,  and  stir  thoroughly.     Remove  from  the  fire,  add  the 
cheese,  and  stir  until  well  mixed.     When  cold,  drop  in  small 
pieces  in  deep  hot  oil,  and  brown. 

CHEESE  STRAWS  NO.  i 
4  ounces  of  flour  A     pinch     each     of     cayenne, 

2  ounces  of  grated  cheese  pounded  mace  and  salt 

2  ounces  of  butter 
Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour.  Mix  the  cheese  and  the 
other  ingredients  well  together.  Add  as  much  water  as  will 
form  a  stiff  paste.  Roll  out  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 
Cut  into  fingers  four  inches  long  and  half  an  inch  wide. 
Bake  them  for  five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  and  serve  cold. 

CHEESE  STRAWS  NO.  2 

2  ounces  of  Cheddar  cheese  2  ounces  of  flour 

2  ounces  of  Parmesan  cheese  2  ounces  of  butter 

Pepper 
Grate  the  cheese,  add  the  flour,  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream, 


BREAD,  ETC.  39 

and  add  to  the  cheese  and  flour,  with  the  seasoning.  Mix 
well  together,  and  roll  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut 
into  fingers,  and  bake  ten  minutes. 

CHEESE  STRAWS  NO.  3 

1  cup  flour  J4  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  butter  ^     J^  cup  ice  water 

I  ounce  of  cheese 
Make  plain  pastry  of  the  flour,  butter,  salt  and  ice  water. 
Roll  the  pastry  out  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness.  Spread 
one  half  of  it  with  grated  cheese.  &ess  the  edges  firmly 
together.  Fold  again,  and  roll  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thick- 
ness. Sprinkle  one  half  with  cheese,  and  proceed  as  before. 
Repeat  this  process  once  more.  Cut  into  strips  about  five 
inches  long  and  one-fourth  inch  wide.  Bake  in  quite  a  hot 
oven  about  eight  minutes. 

FRIED  PASTE 

When  paste,  made  according  to  any  of  the  recipes,  has 
been  kept  two  or  three  days,  and  it  is  not  required  for  tarts, 
etc.,  a  very  nice  dish  can  be  made  by  rolling  it  out  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  and  stamping  it  into  small  rounds, 
and  frying  these  in  oil.  The  oil  must  not  be  quite  so  hot  as 
for  general  frying.  Test  it  by  throwing  in  a  bit  of  bread, 
and  p«t  in  the  paste  as  soon  as  the  bread  crisps,  and  before 
the  oil  is  hot  enough  to  brown  it,  then  the  paste  will  be  done 
perfectly. 

The  rounds  of  pastry  should  have  sugar  sifted  over  them, 
and  be  piled  on  a  dish  paper.  Any  stewed  fruit  may  be 
served  with  them. 

PASTE  PUFF  FOR  TARTS,  ETC. 

I  pound  of  flour  J4  pound  of  butter 

I  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

Divide  the  butter  into  three  portions.     Put  the  flour  into 


40  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

a  bowl,  and  mix  the  baking  powder  thoroughly  with  it,  first, 
however,  taking  out  three  tablespoons  for  working  the  pastry. 
Rub  one  portion  of  the  butter  into  the  flour,  and  mix  it  with 
as  little  of  the  water  as  will  make  the  paste  smooth.  Roll 
this  out  until  it  is  an  inch  thick,  then  divide  into  halves.  Put 
one  half  aside,  and  roll  out  the  other  until  it  is  very  thin,  less 
than  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Break  up  the  second 
portion  of  the  butter  into  small  bits,  and  lay  these  over  the 
paste,  leaving  a  margin  of  quite  an  inch  to  allow  for  the 
butter  spreading  in  rolling.  Dredge  with  flour,  and  fold  in 
three,  then  roll  out  until  the  paste  is  an  inch  thick.  Treat 
the  other  half  in  exactly  the  same  manner,  using  the  third 
portion  of  the  butter.  When  this  is  done,  place  the  two 
pieces  on  top  of  one  another,  and  roll  out  until  half  an  inch 
thick.  Now  fold  the  paste,  and  place  it  between  two  dishes, 
and  put  it  aside  in  a  cool  place  until  next  day. 

When  rolling  out  the  paste  for  tarts,  take  care  to  keep 
it  one  way  of  the  grain.  If  in  using  the  cuttings  they  are 
placed  straight,  one  on  top  of  the  other,  the  last  bit  of  paste 
will  be  as  light  and  flaky  as  the  first  used. 

PASTE  PUFF,  OLD  RECIPE 
I  pound  of  flour  i  pound  of  butter 

A  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

Take  three  ounces  of  flour  from  the  pound,  to  use  for 
working  up  the  paste,  and  put  the  remainder  in  a  bowl,  mixing 
it  well  with  the  baking-powder.  Divide  the  butter  into  four 
portions,  and  rub  one  into  the  flour ;  then  mix  with  as  much 
water  as  will  make  a  perfectly  smooth  paste.  Now  roll  out 
the  paste  to  the  thickness  of  a  shilling,  and  break  up  the  butter 
into  bits  the  size  of  a  hazel-nut,  placing  them  over  the  paste. 
Dredge  lightly  with  some  of  the  flour  taken  out  for  working. 
Be  careful  to  leave  a  margin  of  an  inch  to  allow  for  the  butter 
spreading  in  rolling.     Fold  the  paste  into  four,  and  roll  out 


BREAD,  ETC.  41 

again  to  the  thickness  of  a  shilling.  Repeat  these  directions 
exactly,  in  working  in  the  third  and  fourth  parts  of  the  butter. 
When  all  the  butter  has  been  used  fold  the  paste  into  three, 
and  once  again  lengthwise.  Lay  it  in  a  deep  dish,  and  cover 
closely,  letting  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  at  least  twelve 
hours.  This  paste  will  keep  two  or  three  days  without  bak- 
ing unless  the  weather  is  very  hot.  -  Be  very  careful  in  mak- 
ing up  the  paste  into  tartlets,  tarts,  etc.,  to  keep  it  the  way  of 
the  grain  in  rolling  out  or  as  flakes  lie.  The  cuttings  if 
placed  flat,  one  on  top  of  the  other,  and  rolled  out,  will  then 
be  just  as  light  and  flaky  as  when  rolled  out  at  first.  Some 
cooks  spoil  quite  a  quarter  of  the  paste  in  making  tartlets, 
etc.,  by  not  observing  this  rule,  for  if  the  cuttings  are  gath- 
ered up  carelessly  in  the  hand,  and  made  into  a  ball,  and  then 
rolled  out,  all  the  work  of  the  cook  is  spoiled,  for  paste 
treated  so  wiU  be  very  little  better  than  ordinary  short-paste. 

PASTE  FOR  BOILED  PUDDINGS 

I  pound  of  flour  i    heaping    teaspoon    of    baking 

6  ounces  of  butter  powder 

Water 

Take  out  two  large  tablespoons  of  the  flour  to  work  up  the 
paste,  and  mix  the  rest  with  the  baking-powder.  When 
these  have  been  well-mixed,  rub  in  the  butter,  and  stir  in  as 
much  water  as  will  make  a  rather  stiff  paste.  Flour  a  pastry- 
board,  and  roll  out  the  paste  to  half  an  inch  in  thickness. 
Fold  the  pastry  in  three,  and  roll  out  again,  when  it  will  be 
ready  for  use.  Keep  the  board  and  rolling-pin  well  floured 
with  the  flour  that  was  taken  from  the  pound  at  first.  This 
pastry  can  be  used  equally  well  for  either  fruit  or  vegetable 
pies.  If  the  paste  is  to  be  kept  several  days  before  using 
it  should  be  wrapped  in  a  napkin  and  put  in  a  cool  place  so 
no  crust  will  be  formed.  In  making  paste  everything  should 
be  cold  and  the  dough  handled  as  little  as  possible. 


42  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

BATTER 

4  ounces  of  flour  %  pint  tepid  water 

I  tablespoon  of  salad  oil 

Mix  the  oil  and  flour  together,  and  make  into  a  smooth 
batter  with  the  water. 

BATTER  FOR  FRYING  SAVORIES 

]/2  pint  of  milk  2  ounces  of  flour 

J^  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

Mix  the  milk  and  flour  very  smoothly  together,  adding 
the  milk  a  little  at  a  time  until  it  is  all  used;  stir  in  the 
salt.  The  batter  must  always  be  mixed  at  least  three  hours 
before  it  is  required  or  it  will  not  be  light.  Add  the  baking 
powder  just  before  the  batter  is  used,  and  be  careful  to  mix 
it  very  thoroughly. 

BATTER  FOR  FRYING  SWEETS 

4  ounces  of  flour  ^.  ounce  of  sugar 

I  ounce  of  butter  i  gill  of  water 

Mix  the  flour  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cold  water  to 
a  smooth  paste.  Dissolve  the  butter  In  a  saucepan;  then  stir 
in  the  flour  and  the  water.  Add  the  sugar  last.  It  is  then 
ready  for  use. 

ROUX  BROWN  AND  WHITE  FOR  THICKENING 

I  pound  2  ounces  of  flour  i  pound  of  butter 

See  that  the  flour  is  thoroughly  dry,  and  then  sift  it. 
Squeeze  the  butter  In  a  cloth  to  remove  all  moisture.  Now 
put  the  butter  in  an  enameled  stewpan,  and  let  it  stand  on 
the  stove  until  it  runs  to  oil.  It  is  necessary  to  heat  the 
oiled  butter  so  that  the  scum  will  rise,  but  care  must  be 
taken  that  it  does  not  get  too  hot.  When  all  the  scum  has 
been  removed,  the  stewpan  should  be  put  in  a  cooler  part  of 
the  stove,  so  that  the  sediment  may  settle.     Skim  off  the 


BREAD,  ETC.  43 

froth  very  carefully,  and  pour  the  oil  In  a  basin,  leaving  the 
sediment  at  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan.  Remove  the  sedi- 
ment from  the  stewpan,  and  pour  back,  the  oil  —  now  clari- 
fied butter  —  and  sprinkle  in  the  flour  gradually,  stirring 
all  the  time.  Put  the  stewpan  on  a  slow  fire,  turned  low, 
and  stir  continually  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Keep  scraping 
the  bottom  of  the  pan  to  prevent  mixture  burning;  be  very 
careful  about  the  scraping  or  the  stirring,  or  the  roux  will 
be  spoiled.  As  soon  as  the  mixture  begins  to  color  a  very 
little,  put  half  of  It  into  a  jar  for  white  roux.  It  must  not 
turn  more  than  a  cream  color,  as  it  is  intended  to  thicken 
white  soups  and  white  sauces.  Now  return  the  saucepan  to 
the  fire,  and  continue  the  stirring  and  scraping  until  the  re- 
maining roux  has  become  a  bright  brown.  Be  careful  that 
it  does  not  get  too  dark;  a  light  chocolate  color  is  the  cor- 
rect shade.  Immediately  the  roux  is  dark  enough,  remove 
It  from  the  stove  at  once,  but  continue  stirring  for  some  min- 
utes, as  enameled  stewpans  retain  the  heat  after  they  have 
been  removed  from  the  fire,  and  the  mixture  would  burn 
if  the  stirring  was  discontinued  at  once.  Have  ready  a  large 
slice  of  onion,  and  throw  it  into  the  roux,  if  there  is  any  fear 
that  It  is  getting  too  dark ;  this  checks  the  heat  at  once.  This 
Is  brown  roux  for  thickening  brown  soups  and  gravies.  It 
will  keep  for  weeks,  and  although  the  process  seems  rather 
troublesome,  it  really  in  the  end  saves  time. 

In  using  the  roux  it  is  best  to  scrape  off  the  quantity  you 
require  with  a  spoon,  and  not  add  it  to  the  soups  and  sauces 
In  a  lump. 


SOUPS 

I  hold  my  tongue  to  tell  the  truth, 
And  keep  my  breath  to  cool  my  broth. 

John  Byrom. 

BARLEY  STOCK 

2  ounces  barley  i  quart  water 

^,  teaspoon  salt 

Put  the  barley,  water  and  salt  Into  a  saucepan.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point.  Skim  and  simmer  gently  for  one  hour. 
Strain, 

BUTTER-BEAN  STOCK 

J^'  pound  butter  beans  i  ounce  onion 

3  quarts  water  i  ounce  carrot 
I  teaspoon  salt  i  ounce  celery 

Wash  the  beans,  and  soak  them  in  one  quart  of  water  all 
night.  Skin  them,  and  tie  them  up  in  a  muslin.  Put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  the  skins  and  the  water  in  which  they 
were  soaked,  and  two  quarts  besides.  Add  the  salt,  bring- 
ing to  a  boiling  point.  Skim,  and  add  the  vegetables.  Boil 
gently  for  two  hours.  Take  out  the  beans,  strain,  and  the 
stock  is  ready  for  use. 

STOCK  FOR  CLEAR  SOUP 

1  pound  butter  beans  2  ounces  celery 

2  quarts  water  l  ounce  parsley 
6  ounces  onions  2  teaspoons  salt 

4  ounces  leeks  i  bay-leaf 

6  ounces  turnips  i  teaspoon  dried  herbs 

6  ounces  carrots  2  ounces  butter 

Wash  the  beans,  and  soak  all  night  in  three  pints  of  water. 

44 


SOUPS  45 

Cut  up  the  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  celery,  leeks,  and  parsley, 
into  small  pieces,  and  fry  in  the  butter.  Add  the  beans,  the 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  the  salt,  and  the  herbs  and 
bay-leaf  tied  up  in  muslin.  Bring  slowly  to  boiling  point; 
then  add  the  remaining  pint  of  water,  and  simmer  for  two 
hours.  Strain  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  leave  until  the  next 
day. 

GERMAN  LENTIL  STOCK 

^  pound  German  lentils  i  teaspoon  celery  seed 

3  pints  water  i  ounce  butter 

4  ounces  carrot  i  teaspoon  salt 

4  ounces  onion 

Soak  the  lentils  all  night,  then  put  them  in  a  muslin  bag. 
Cut  the  carrot  and  onion  into  small  pieces,  and  fry  in  the 
butter  till  brown.  Add  the  lentils  and  the  water  in  which 
they  were  soaked,  the  salt  and  celery-seed.  Boil  for  two 
hours ;  then  strain. 

LENTIL  STOCK 

Yi  pound  lentils  Small  piece  of  bay-leaf 

3  quarts  cold  water  i  teaspoon  salt 

I  onion 

Wash  the  lentils;  soak  them  in  one  quart  of  water  all 
night.  Tie  them  in  muslin,  and  put  thehi  into  a  saucepan, 
with  the  water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  two  quarts  be- 
sides, and  add  the  salt.  Bring  to  boiling  point;  skim.  Add 
the  onion  and  bay-leaf;  boil  for  two  hours.  Xake  out  the 
lentils,  strain,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

CELERY  SOUP 

I  head  of  celery  J^  ounce  of  butter 

y^  ounce  chopped  onion  i  pint  boiling  water 

1  pint  milk  J^  ounce  flour 

Cut  the  celery  into  small  pieces,  and  cook  it  for  five  min- 
utes in  the  butter  with  the  onion.     Add  the  water,  and  boil 


46  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

until  the  celery  is  tender.  Rub  through  a  hairsieve.  Mix 
the  flour  smoothly  with  a  little  of  the  milk,  add  the  rest  of 
the  milk  to  the  celery,  and  boil.  Stir  in  the  flour  and  cook 
for  ten  minutes.     Season,  and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP  NO.  i 

lYz  cups  diced  celery  J^,  teaspoon  salt 

ij^  pints  water  i  pint  white  sauce 

Cook  the  diced  celery  in  the  salted  water,  until  tender. 
The  quantity  of  celery  and  liquid  should  equal  one  and  J^ 
pints.  To  this  mixture  add  one  pint  of  white  sauce,  made  as 
follows :  — 

WHITE  SAUCE 

4  tablespoons  flour  i  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  butter  i  cup  hot  milk 

Rub  together  the  butter  and  the  flour,  adding  gradually 
the  hot  milk.  Cook  this  white  sauce  in  a  double  boiler  for 
ten  to  fifteen  minutes.     Add  salt. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP  NO.  2 

8  stalks  celery  i  tablespoon  butter 

2  cups  boiling  water  i  tablespoon  flour 

Salt,  pepper  3  cups  milk 

Wash,  and  scrape  the  celery,  and  cut  into  small  pieces, 
add  the  water,  and  cook  until  very  tender.  Renew  the 
water  if  it  boils  away.  Mash  the  celery  in  the  water  in  which 
it  was  cooked. 

Scald  the  milk.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the 
flour,  and  pour  in  slowly  the  scalded  milk.  Cook  thoroughly, 
stirring  constantly. 

Mix  this  sauce  with  the  celery,  season  to  taste ;  strain,  and 
serve  immediately  with  croutons. 


SOUPS  47 

CREAM  OF  RICE  SOUP  NO.  i 

J4  cup  rice  lYz  teaspoons  salt 

2  cups  water  3  cups  milk 

2  slices  of  onion  i  tablespoon  butter 

J4  teaspoon  almond  extract 

Add  the  rice  and  onion  to  the  boiling  water.  Cook  until 
tender;  then  rub  through  the  colander.  Add  the  butter  and 
hot  milk.     Reheat,  season  with  salt  and  almond,  and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  RICE  SOUP  NO.  2 

I  small  cup  of  rice  Stalk  celery 

3  cups  milk  i  bay  leaf 
3  tablespoons  butter                           Salt 

I  small  onion  Pepper 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  well  washed  rice,  and  cook  in 
double  boiler  thirty  minutes,  covered  closely. 

Melt  the  butter  in  saute  pan,  add  the  sliced  onion,  and 
cook  until  tender,  taking  care  not  to  let  it  brown.  Add  the 
celery  diced,  and  turn  into  the  scalded  milk;  add  the  bay 
leaf,  cover,  and  let  stand  on  back  of  range  fifteen  minutes. 
Strain,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  reheat,  and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  OKRA  SOUP 

I  cup  canned  okra  i  teaspoon  brown  sugar 

J^  cup  strained  tomato  i  teaspoon  grated  onion 

I  cup  water  3  tablespoons  Japanese  Soy 

%  cup  cream  i  tablespoon  flour 

Cook  together  the  strained  tomato,  water  and  Soy.  Add 
the  okra,  and  heat.  Strain  through  a  colander.  Add 
grated  onion,  brown  sugar  and  the  flour  moistened  with  a 
little  cold  water.  Heat  the  cream,  add  to  the  soup  before 
serving.  After  the  flour  is  added  the  soup  should  be  cooked 
until  the  raw  taste  of  the  starch  is  gone. 


48  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS  SOUP  NO.  i 
Drain  the  liquid  from  a  one-pint  can  of  asparagus;  wash 
by  letting  cold  water  run  over  it,  and  put  the  stalks  through 
a  colander,  making  one  cup  of  puree.     Make  a  white  sauce 
of  the  following  ingredients :  — 
2  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  i  teaspoon  salt 

Add  the  hot  puree  slowly  to  the  hot  white  sauce,  stirring 
constantly. 

CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS  SOUP  NO.  2 

I  bundle  asparagus  3  tablespoons  flour 

4  cups  milk  Salt,  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Wash  the  asparagus,  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water, 
boiling  gently  thirty  minutes.  Take  from  the  water,  cut  off 
the  tips,  and  put  them  into  the  serving  dish;  press  the  re- 
mainder through  a  colander. 

Scald  the  milk,  melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  and  pour 
on  gradually  the  scalded  milk.  Cook  thoroughly,  stirring 
frequently. 

Add  the  two  mixtures,  reheat,  season  to  taste,  strain  over 
tips,  and  serve  at  once. 

ASPARAGUS  SOUP 

J^  pound  asparagus  ij4  ounces  creme  dc  rlz 

I  ounce  butter  J4  pint  milk 

I  quart  boiling  water  i  teaspoon  salt 

Pepper 

Trim,  and  scrape  the  asparagus,  and  cut  off  the  heads. 
Cut  the  rest  up  roughly,  and  saute  in  butter  for  five  minutes. 
Add  the  boiling  water,  and  salt;  cook  until  tender.  Rub 
through  the  sieve.  Return  to  the  saucepan,  add  the  aspara- 
gus heads,  and  boil  for  ten  minutes.     Mix  the  creme  de  riz 


SOUPS  49 

with  the  milk;  add  it  to  the  soup;  cook  for  twenty  minutes; 
add  a  little  pepper,  and  a  little  more  salt  if  necessary. 

CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP  NO.  i 

I  can  of  com  2  teaspoons  salt 

I  quart  milk  3  tablespoons  flour 

3  tablespoons  butter 

Turn  the  corn  into  a  saucepan,  adding  a  little  water,  and 
cook  gently  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes.  Prepare  a 
white  sauce  of  the  milk,  flour,  butter  and  salt.  Turn  the 
corn  into  the  white  sauce,  and  cook  together  for  a  few  min- 
utes. 

CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP  NO.  2 

1  cup  corn  2  cups  milk 

2  cups  cold  water  1  tablespoon  flour 
I  slice  onion                                      i  tablespoon  butter 

Salt,  pepper 

Chop  the  com,  add  water,  and  let  it  simmer  twenty-five 
minutes;  then  rub  through  a  sieve. 

Scald  the  milk  with  the  onion;  then  remove  the  onion. 
Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  and  gradually  pour  on  the 
milk. 

Mix  the  sauce  with  the  corn;  cook  thoroughly,  season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper.     Serve  hot. 

MULLIGATAWNY  SOUP 

%  pound  butter  beans  Parsley 

I  ounce  carrots,  turnips,  and  eel-  3  ounces  chopped  apple 

ery  3  ounces  sliced  tomato 

3  pints  water  i  teaspoon  curry  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

2  ounces  chopped  Spanish  onion       Yt.  ounce  cornflour 

J4  pint  milk 

Soak  the  beans  all  night  in  water;  put  them  on  to  cook; 
when  boiling,  add  the  carrots,  turnip,  and  celery.     Cook 


50  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

until  the  beans  are  tender ;  then  remove  the  carrot.  Fry  the 
onion  in  the  butter,  with  the  bay-leaf  and  parsley.  Add 
the  apples  and  tomato;  sprinkle  over  the  curry-powder. 
Stir  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  taking  care  that  it  does 
not  burn ;  then  add  the  curry-paste,  chutney,  flour  and  lemon 
juice.  Add  the  butter  beans,  etc.,  and  cook  slowly  for  one 
hour.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Reheat  and  serve  with  boiled 
rice. 

MACARONI  SOUP 

Fry  one-half  pound  of  chopped  onions  In  one  or  two 
ounces  of  butter  until  brown.  Place  in  the  pan,  together 
with  four  ounces  of  macaroni  broken  into  inch  lengths,  one- 
quarter  teaspoon  salt,  water,  and  cook  one  hour.  Add  one 
quart  of  milk  and  seasoning.  Boil  for  ten  minutes  and 
serve.     Strain  if  desired. 

ITALIAN  SOUP 

Half  a  pound  each  of  turnips,  carrots,  onions,  one-quarter 
pound  of  macaroni,  one  small  beet,  one  ounce  of  parsley, 
two  ounces  butter,  and  one  pint  milk.  Slice  the  vegetables, 
except  the  beet ;  boil  them  in  the  water ;  break  the  macaroni 
in  small  pieces,  and  boil  it  in  the  milk.  When  the  vegetables 
and  macaroni  are  cooking,  mix  them.  Add  the  parsley 
and  the  beet,  previously  boiled  and  cut  up  small,  adding  the 
butter  and  seasoning.     Heat  and  serve. 

PALESTINE  SOUP 

J^  can  com  J^  can  tomatoes 

1  quart  milk  J4  teaspoon  soda 

2  slices  onion  J^  cup  butter 

3  tablespoons  flour  2  teaspoons  salt 

I  cup  water  J^  teaspoon  pepper 

Scald  the  milk  with  the  corn  and  onion.  Mix  the  flour 
and  water  to  form  a  smooth  paste,  and  add  the  scalded  milk. 


SOUPS  SI 

Cook  twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly  until  the  mixture 
thickens ;  rub  through  a  sieve.  Cook  the  tomatoes  ten  min- 
utes, add  soda,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Combine  the  mix- 
tures, add  butter  bit  by  bit,  and  seasonings. 

JULIENNE  SOUP 

Cut  some  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  celery  and  leeks  into  thin 
strips,  using  twice  as  many  turnips  and  carrots.  Dry  them, 
and  then  fry  slowly  in  two  ounces  of  butter  until  brown. 
Add  two  quarts  of  water,  and  simmer  until  tender.  Season 
with  salt,  paprika,  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Add  some 
chopped  chervil  or  parsley  and  serve  with  croutons. 

PEA  SOUP 

I  pint  canned  peas  i  tablespoon  butter 

I  pint  water  i  tablespoon  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt  i  slice  onion 

I  sprig  mint 
Drain  the  peas  through  a  colander.  Add  the  water. 
Rub  together  the  flour  and  butter  and  moisten  with  a  little 
water.  Add  this  to  the  peas,  and  cook  with  the  onion  and 
mint  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Season  and  serve.  Celery 
salt  may  be  substituted  for  the  onion  if  desired. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP 

2  pounds  peas  Pepper  and  salt 

I  quart  bean  stock  I  teaspoon  cornflour 

I  ounce  butter  l  gill  milk 

I  spinach  leaf  i  gill  cream 

I  onion 

Shell  the  peas,  wash  and  string  the  pods,  and  put  them 
Into  a  saucepan,  with  one  quart  of  boiling  stock.  Cook  for 
thirty  minutes,  and  then  strain. 

Put  the  butter  into  the  saucepan,  add  the  peas  and  spinach 
leaf.     Saute  these  for  about  five  minutes;  then  add  the 


52  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

stock  tKe  pods  were  cooked  In,  and  cook  until  the  peas  are 
tender.  Rub  through  a  hair-sieve.  Return  to  the  sauce- 
pan, and  add  the  pepper  and  salt.  Add  the  cornflour  mixed 
with  the  milk;  boil  for  five  minutes.  Then  add  the  cream, 
and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  GREEN  PEA  SOUP 

I  pint  green  peas  2  tablespoons  flour 

I  quart  water  i  teaspoon  salt 

1  pint  milk  i  teaspoon  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter  i  slice  onion 

Wash  the  peas,  and  cook  in  the  boiling  water  with  the 
onion  until  soft;  then  mash  through  a  colander,  and  add  to 
the  liquid  in  which  they  are  cooked.  Make  a  white  sauce 
of  the  butter,  flour  and  milk,  and  add  to  the  mashed  peas. 
Add  the  salt  and  sugar,  and  cook  five  minutes. 

CREAM  OF  PEA  SOUP 

1  can  peas  i  pint  milk 

2  teaspoons  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 
I  pint  cold  water  i   tablespoon  flour 

Salt  and  pepper 

Drain  the  peas  from  their  liquor,  rinse  thoroughly,  add 
sugar  and  cold  water,  and  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Rub 
through  a  sieve. 

Scald  the  milk.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  and  pour 
on  gradually  the  scalding  milk.  Cook  thoroughly,  stirring 
carefully.     Add  to  the  pea  stock,  reheat  and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  SCOTCH  PEA  SOUP 

y^  cup  Scotch  peas  2  tablespoons  flour 

I  quart  water  2  cups  milk 

3  tablespoons  butter  ij4  teaspoons  salt 

I  tablespoon  sugar 

Cook  the  peas  six  hours  until  tender  in  the  quart  of 
water.     Rub  through  the  colander.     Add  water  sufficient 


SOUPS  53 

to  make  one  pint  of  puree.  Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler. 
Prepare  a  white  sauce,  made  .by  rubbing  together  the  but- 
ter, flour  and  a  little  warm  milk.  The  white  sauce  should 
cook  ab«)ut  ten  minutes  in  a  double  boiler;  then  add  it  to  the 
body  of  the  soup. 

After  the  white  sauce  and  puree  have  cooked  for  a  few 
moments,  add  the  salt  and  sugar,  and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  SPLIT  PEA  SOUP 

1  cup  split  peas  3  tablespoons  butter 

2j^  quarts  water  2  tablespoons  flour 

a  tablespoons  chopped  onions  ij^,  teaspoons  salt 

I  pint  milk 
Wash  the  peas,  and  soak  them  over  night  in  cold  water. 
Drain,  and  rinse  thoroughly,  adding  two  and  one-half  quarts 
of  cold  water  and  the  onion.  Cook  slowly  until  soft,  and 
press  through  a  strainer.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  re- 
maining ingredients,  and  add  to  the  above.  Cook  together 
five  minutes. 

SPLIT  PEA  PUR^E 

I  pint  vegetable  stock  4  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  dried  split  peas  ij4  teaspoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  i  quart  water 

To  prepare  the  vegetable  stock,  take  one-half  cup  chopped 
turnips,  one-half  cup  celery,  one-half  cup  sliced  potatoes, 
one-half  cup  chopped  onion,  and  one-half  cup  chopped  car- 
rots. Cook  these  vegetables  in  plenty  of  water  to  cover 
till  tender;  drain  off  the  liquid,  of  which  there  should  be  a 
pint.  If  necessary  add  water  enough  to  make  this  quantity. 
Soak  the  split  peas  over  night,  and  simmer  in  water  to  cover 
until  soft.  Press  the  peas  through  a  colander,  and  add  the 
vegetable  broth  and  water  to  make  one  quart.  Rub  the 
flour  and  butter  together,  and  pour  over  it  slowly  the  hot 
liquids.     Cook  five  minutes.     Add  seasoning  and  serve. 


54  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

BEAN  SOUP 

1  cup  white  beans  lYz  teaspoons  salt 

1  quart  water  i  tablespoon  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  i  teaspoon  onion  salt 

Soak  the  beans  In  cold  water  over  night.  Cook  slowly 
in  soft  water  for  four  or  five  hours  or  until  the  beans  are 
perfectly  tender.  Put  them  through  a  colander;  rub  the 
butter,  flour  and  salt  together.  Pour  a  little  of  the  warm 
liquid  over  this,  stirring  while  so  doing,  and  then  turn  this 
into  the  remainder  of  the  hot  liquid.  Add  seasoning.  Cook 
five  to  ten  minutes.  This  should  make  one  quart  when 
finished.  If  lacking  in  quantity,  add  water  sufficient  to 
make  one  quart.  Celery  salt  may  be  used  in  place  of  onion 
if  preferred. 

CREAM  OF  BEAN  SOUP 

1  cup  white  beans  2  tablespoons  butter 
Ij4  quarts  water                               2  tablespoons  flour 

2  teaspoons  salt  2  cups  milk  or  milk  and  cream 

I  teaspoon  onion  salt 

Soak  the  beans  over  night.  Drain,  and  cook  in  one  and 
a  half  quarts  of  boiling  water.  When  tender,  rub  through 
a  colander,  and  add  to  the  liquid  in  which  they  were  cooked. 
Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  flour,  butter,  milk  and  cream. 
Then  add  the  seasoning,  and  add  to  the  mashed  beans. 
Cook  together  five  minutes,  and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  LIMA  BEAN  SOUP 

I  cup  lima  beans  i  tablespoon  butter 

1  quart  water  i  tablespoon  flour 

2  cups  milk  I  teaspoon  salt 

J4  teaspoon  onion  salt 

Soak  the  beans  in  cold  water  over  night.  Cook  in  a 
quart  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  simmer  until  the  beans  are 
perfectly  tender;  then  press  through  a  colander.     Make  a 


SOUPS  55 

white  sauce  of  the  milk,  flour,  butter  and  salt.  Add  the 
bean  puree  and  enough  water  to  make  one  quart  of  soup. 
Add  the  salt  and  onion  just  before  serving. 

BUTTER  BEAN  SOUP 

J/^  pound  butter  beans  2  stalks  celery 

I  quart  cold  water  J4  ounce  butter 

4  ounces  Spanish  onions  Y^  ounce  flour 

4  ounces  turnips  ^  pint  milk 

3  ounces  carrots  Salt  and  pepper 

Wash  the  beans,  and  soak  them  all  night  in  the  water. 
Put  them  into  a  saucepan,  and  when  boiling,  add  the  other 
vegetables  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Cook  until  the  beans 
are  tender  —  about  two  hours.  Remove  the  carrot,  turnip, 
onion  and  celery,  and  rub  the  beans  through  a  sieve.  Melt 
the  butter,  mix  the  flour,  add  the  milk,  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes.  Add  the  beans;  bring  to  boiling  point.  Season, 
and  serve. 

CARROT  SOUP  NO.  i 

I  pound  carrots  J^  ounce  flour 

Yn  ounce  onions  i  pint  milk 

I  ounce  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

1  pint  boiling  water 

Cut  the  carrots  and  onions  into  small  pieces,  and  cook 
them  in  the  butter  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  water ;  cook 
until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Rub  through  a  hair  sieve. 
Return  to  a  saucepan.  Mix  the  flour  smoothly  with  a  little 
of  the  milk,  add  the  rest  of  the  milk  to  the  carrot,  etc.,  and 
boil.  When  boiling,  add  the  flour.  Cook  for  ten  minutes. 
Season  and  serve. 

This  soup  is  very  delicate  if  made  of  the  proper  consist- 
ency. If  too  thick  add  more  milk  until  it  is  as  thick  as  rich 
cream.     Put  a  few  croutons  in  each  plate. 


S6  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

CARROT  SOUP  NO.  2 

12  ounces  carrots  i  ounce  butter 

4  ounces  onions  i  quart  stock 

2  ounces  leeks  i^i.  ounces  creme  dc  rfz 

8  ounces  turnips  ^i  pint  milk 

4  ounces  celery  ^2  gill  cream 

Bouquet  of  herbs 

Cut  the  vegetables  into  slices,  using  only  the  red  part 
of  the  carrot,  and  fry  in  the  butter  to  a  golden  brown.  Add 
the  stock,  and  cook  for  one  and  one-half  hours.  Mix  the 
creme  de  riz  with  a  little  riiilk,  and  add  it;  cook  for  twenty 
minutes.  Rub  through  a  hair  sieve.  Return  to  the  sauce- 
pan with  the  milk,  and  boil  up.  Add  the  cream  to  the  soup, 
taking  care  not  to  curdle.  Cook  for  a  few  minutes. 
Season  and  serve. 

SPINACH  SOUP  NO.  i 

I  quart  liquid  from  boiled  spinach     }4.  pint  milk 
I  ounce  butter  i  ounce  flour 

Melt  the  butter ;  stir  in  the  flour,  add  the  milk  gradually, 
mix  well,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Add  the  spinach  liquid ; 
boil.     Season  and  serve. 

SPINACH  SOUP  NO.  2 

1  pound  spinach  ij^  ounces  flour 

I  quart  boiling  water  J4  pint  milk 

lyi.  ounces  butter 

Wash,  and  pick  the  spinach ;  put  it  into  the  boiling  water 
with  a  little  salt.  Boil  with  the  lid  off  till  the  spinach  is 
tender  —  about  ten  minutes.  Rub  through  a  hair  sieve. 
Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan;  stir  in  the  flour,  and  add  the 
milk  gradually.  Cook  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  spinach 
puree.     Boil.     Season  and  serve. 


SOUPS  57 

SPINACH  SOUP  NO.  3 

I  cup  chopped  cooked  spinach  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  quart  white  stock  i  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  Salt,  pepper 

Add  spinach  to  the  stock,  heat  to  boiling  point,  and  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Thicken  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  to- 
gether, add  milk  and  seasonings,  reheat,  strain  and  serve. 

CAULIFLOWER  SOUP  NO.  i 

1  cup  cooked  cauliflower  2  tablespoons  butter 

3  cups  white  stock  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  milk  Salt,  pepper 

Make  same  as  spinach  soup. 

CAULIFLOWER  SOUP  NO.  2 

1  cauliflower,  about  one  pound         i  ounce  flour 

2  pints  barley  stock  ij^  pints  milk 

1  ounce  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Grated  cheese  if  desired 

Prepare  the  cauliflower,  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces ;  cook 
in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes;  strain.  Put  the  cauli- 
flower into  a  saucepan  with  the  barley  stock,  which  should  be 
boiling.  Cook  until  tender ;  then  rub  through  a  sieve.  Melt 
the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  stir  in  the  flour,  add  the  milk  and 
cauliflower  puree,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it  boils.  Cook 
for  five  minutes.  Add  the  seasoning  of  pepper  and/salt  and 
cheese. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

J4  cup  diced  potato  2  tablespoons  butter 

J4  cup  diced  carrots  i  cup  strained  tomatoes 

J4  cup  diced  turnips  2  cups  water 

J4  cup  chopped  cabbage  ij^  tablespoons  caramelized  sugar 

2  tablespoons  diced  onion  ij^.  teaspoons  salt 

Wash  and  dice  the  potatoes,  carrots  and  turnips  and  chop 
he  cabbage.     Cook  all  the  vegetables  in  the  two  cups  of 


f 


58  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

water  until  they  are  tender.  Add  the  strained  tomato  and 
water,  sufficient  to  make  one  quart.  Add  caramelized  sugar, 
made  by  putting  the  sugar  in  a  pan ;  stir  constantly  over  the 
fire  until  melted  to  a  syrup  of  a  rich  brown  color.  Add 
gradually  enough  boiling  water  to  dissolve  the  caramel,  and 
add  to  the  soup.     Season  and  serve. 

THICK  VEGETABLE  SOUP 

J4  cup  dried  split  peas  ^  cup  diced  turnips 

J4  cup  dried  white  beans  Yz  cup  diced  carrots 

I  cup  dried  potatoes  i  cup  strained  tomatoes 

Yi.  cup  diced  vegetable  oysters         2  tablespoons  butter 
i^  cups  cut  celery  i  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

iJ/2.  teaspoons  salt 

Soak  the  peas  and  beans  over  night.  Cook  them  In 
sufficient  water  to  cover  until  tender.  Add  the  other  vege- 
tables, and  cook  until  all  are  tender.  Add  water  to  make 
one  and  one-half  quarts  of  soup,  then  add  salt  and  butter, 
and  serve. 

WHITE  VEGETABLE  SOUP 

/?!  pound  turnips  i  pint  boiling  stock 

Yz  pound  carrots  i  pint  boiling  water 

4  sticks  of  celery  ij^.pint  milk 

I  ounce  butter  I  ounce  flour 

Yt.  bay  leaf  pepper  and  salt 

Cut  the  vegetables  Into  long  shreds,  and  cook  them  in 
the  butter  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  bay  leaf,  stock  and 
water,  and  cook  gently  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Mix 
the  flour  smoothly  with  the  milk,  add  it  to  the  soup,  and  cook 
for  ten  minutes.  Remove  the  bay  leaf,  add  the  seasoning, 
and  serve. 

Care  should  be  taken  to  cook  the  vegetables  the  proper 
length  of  time  so  they  will  be  tender  but  not  mushy.  A  tea- 
spoon of  sugar  may  be  added  if  desired. 


SOUPS  59 

VEGETABLE  BOUILLON 

2  cups  sliced  tomatoes  J^  cup  dried  peas 

2  5^  cups  sliced  carrots  i  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  sliced  turnips  3  quarts  water 

Soak  the  dried  peas  over  night.  Then  put  to  cook  in  cold 
water,  letting  it  come  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  Simmer 
for  four  hours  or  until  the  peas  are  thoroughly  softened. 
Pare,  and  slice  the  turnips  and  carrots,  and  add  to  the  peas 
about  one  hour  and  a  half  before  they  have  finished  cooking. 
Pare  the  potatoes,  and  slice,  and  add  them  to  the  peas  and 
other  ingredients  a  half  hour  before  they  are  finished  cook- 
ing. When  all  are  tender,  drain  off  the  liquid,  which  should 
equal  one  quart  in  quantity.  If  there  is  not  this  quantity, 
add  sufficient  water  to  make  one  quart.  If  desired,  one 
tablespoon  Japanese  sauce  or  Soy  may  be  added.  To  each 
serving  add  a  tablespoon  small  string  beans  cut  into  short 
lengths. 

VEGETABLE  CONSOMM^  WITH  PEAS 

Yi  cup  diced  carrots  J^  cup  ch(q>ped  celery 

Yz  cup  diced  turnips  Yz  cup  sliced  potatoes 

Yi  cup  chopped  cabbage  Y^  '^"P  sweet  potatoes 

Yi  cup  chopped  onions 

Bring  the  vegetables  to  a  boil  in  one  quart  of  water. 
Then  cook  in  double  boiler  three  hours.  Reserve  potatoes 
until  one-half  hour  before  serving.  Add  one  and  one-third 
cups  bean  stock,  salt,  season  with  thyme,  add  one  teaspoon 
butter,  and  serve.  To  each  serving,  add  a  dessertspoon  of 
canned  peas.     This  makes  one  quart  soup. 

Soak  one  cup  of  beans  in  one  quart  of  water  over  night. 
Put  to  cook  in  the  same  water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  and 
cook  until  thoroughly  softened.  Let  them  stand  until  set- 
tled; then  strain  off  the  clear  liquid.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  before  adding  to  the  vegetables.     There  should  be 


6o  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

one  and  one-third  cups  of  it.     If  deficient  in  quantity,  add 
sufficient  water  io  make  this  amount. 

CREAM  OF  BARLEY  SOUP 

j4  cup  barley  ^3  pint  milk 

J^  pint  cream  3  cups  water 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Soak  the  barley  a  few  hours  or  over  night.  Drain,  and 
cook  in  three  cups  of  water.  When  tender,  take  out  one- 
third  of  the  barley.  Put  the  remainder  through  a  colander, 
add  the  cream  and  milk  and  the  remaining  one-third  of  the 
barley.     Reheat,  add  salt,  and  serve. 

If  cream  is  not  obtainable,  a  thin  white  sauce  may  be  used 
instead.  A  little  onion  or  celery  salt  may  be  added  for 
seasoning  if  desired. 

BARLEY  SOUP 

yi  cup  pearl  barley  2  tablespoons  Japanese  Soy 

I  cup  strained  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  butter 

or  I  tablespoon  flour 

ys  cup  condensed  tomatoes  i  tablespoon  sugar 

1  quart  water  1  bay  leaf 

2  teaspoons  salt  j4  teaspoon  celery  salt 

Cook  the  barley  in  the  boiling,  salted  water  together  with 
the  strained  tomato  and  bay  leaf  until  tender,  keeping 
covered  while  cooking.  Add  the  celery  salt,  sugar  and  Soy. 
Blend  the  flour  and  butter.  Pour  a  little  of  the  hot 
soup  into  them,  stirring  meanwhile ;  then  turn  back  into  the 
remainder  of  the  ingredients,  and  cook  five  minutes. 

BARLEY  BROTH 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  barley  gently  three  hours  in  five  and 
a  half  quarts  of  water,  with  diced  vegetables  as,  three  me- 
dium sized  carrots,  same  quantity  of  turnips,  and  potatoes, 
a  dessertspoon  of  brown  sugar  and  a  large  onion.     Add 


SOUPS  6 1 

chopped  parsley  and  seasoning  before  serving.  Be  careful 
not  to  let  the  barley  burn ;  if  too  much  water  boils  away  be- 
fore the  vegetables  are  soft,  add  a  little  more  boiling  water 
at  once.  Barley  takes  a  long  time  to  cook  thoroughly,  there- 
fore this  length  of  time  in  preparation  is  necessary.  About 
three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  milk  added  just  before  serving 
improves  it. 

TOMATO  AND  BARLEY  SOUP 

2  pounds  fresh  tomatoes  i  teacup  of  pearl  ,barley 

2  ounces  butter  4  ounces  onions 

2  quarts  water  Salt,  pepper 

Brown  the  butter,  put  in  the  onions  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  fry  until  tender,  and  then  add  2  quarts  of  boiling  water; 
add  the  tomatoes  peeled  by  scalding  them,  and  the  barley, 
and  cook  four  hours.  Strain.  Some  milk  added  a  few  min- 
utes before  serving  improves  it. 

SCOTCH  BROTH 

3  ounces  barley  i  ounce  turnips 

3  pints  water  I  ounce  onions  or  leeks 

4  peppercorns  i  ounce  celery 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  %  pint  peas  —  fresh  or  bottled 

I  ounce  carrots  3  teaspoons  chopped  parsley 

Put  the  barley,  water,  peppercorns  and  salt  into  a  sauce- 
pan, and  boil  for  one  hour.  Put  the  water  and  two  table- 
spoons of  the  barley  back  into  the  saucepan.  Cut  the  car- 
rot, turnip  and  onion  into  small  dice,  and  the  celery  and  leek 
into  small  slices,  and  add  them,  with  the  peas,  to  the  barley, 
etc.  Cook  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Add  the  pars- 
ley, and  serve. 

If  bottled  peas  are  used,  they  should  not  be  added  until 
the  vegetables  are  tender. 


62  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

SEA  KALE  SOUP 
I  pound  seakale  J^  gill  cream 

1  ounce  butter  i  pint  boiling  water 

I  pint  milk  Pepper  and  salt 

Wash,  and  trim  the  sea  kale,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  and 
cook  for  five  minutes  in  the  butter.  Add  the  water,  and 
bring  to  boiling  point.  Add  the  milk,  and  cook  until  the 
seakale  is  tender  —  about  one  hour.  Add  the  cream  to  the 
soup.     Cook  for  a  few  minutes.     Season  and  serve. 

SEA  KALE  PURf;E 

I  pound  seakale  i  pint  boiling  water 

Yi  ounce  butter  J^  ounce  flour 

I  pint  milk 

Cut  the  sea  kale  into  small  pieces,  and  cook  in  the  butter 
for  five  minutes.  Add  the  water,  and  cook  until  the  seakale 
is  tender.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Mix  the  flour  smoothly 
with  a  little  cold  milk.  Put  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  the 
seakale  into  a  saucepan;  when  boiling,  add  the  flour.  Cook 
for  ten  minutes,  season  and  serve. 

SEMOLINA  SOUP 

i/^,  pints  lentil  stock 
ij^  ounces  semolina 
Salt 

Put  the  stock  Into  a  saucepan;  when  boiling,  sprinkle  in 
the  semolina.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Season  and 
serve. 

MANHATTAN  SOUP 

I  quart  vegetable  bouillon  3  tablespoons  butter 

4  tablespoons  flour  slightly  J4  cup  cream 

browned  J4,  cup  whipped  cream 

Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together.  Heat  the  vegetable 
bouillon,  and  pour  slowly  over  the  flour  and  butter,  stirring 


SOUPS  63 

constantly.  Boil  five  minutes,  add  the  cream,  and  reheat. 
Serve  in  bouillon  cups.  Beat  the  whipping  cream  until  stiff, 
and  season  with  a  few  grains  of  salt;  also  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon sugar.  Serve  a  spoon  of  the  seasoned  whipped  cream 
on  top  of  each  serving  of  bouillon. 

TOMATO  AND  CELERY  SOUP 

I  cup   cdery  cut  into  half-inch     1  tablespoon  sugar 

pieces  2  teaspoons  salt 

I  pint  water  i^  tablespoons  flour 

1  quart  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  bay  leaf 

Rub  the  contents  of  a  quart  can  of  tomatoes  through  a 
colander.  Boil  together  the  celery,  water,  strained  tomato, 
bay  leaf,  sugar  and  salt.  When  celery  is  tender,  bind  the 
ingredients  by  rubbing  the  flour  and  butter  together  and 
pouring  over  it  a  little  at  a  time,  some  of  the  warm  —  not 
scalding  —  soup.  When  thoroughly  blended,  stir  into  the 
remainder  of  the  soup,  and  cook.  Boil  gently  for  five  min- 
utes. Remove  the  bay  leaf ;  add  sufficient  water  to  make  one 
and  one-half  quarts  soup. 

CREOLE  SOUP 

J4  quart  can  tomatoes'  i  small  carrot 

or  I  large  onion 

54  cup  condensed  tomatoes  2  cups  water 

2  tablespoons  rice  i  tablespoon  butter 
I  small  turnip  2  teaspoons  salt 

Peel,  and  slice  the  turnip,  carrot  and  onion.  Cook  these 
vegetables  with  the  rice,  tomato  and  salt,  in  the  water. 
When  the  vegetables  are  tender,  rub  all  through  a  colander. 
Add  the  butter,  and,  if  necessary,  water  sufficient  to  make  one 
quart.  Season  with  paprika  and  cayenne  and  heat  thor- 
oughly before  serving. 


64  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

OKRA  SOUP 

2  cups  canned  okra  2  teaspoons  grated  onion 

2  cups  water  4  tablespoons  Japanese  Soy 

ij^  cups  strained  tomatoes 

Rub  the  okra  through  a  colander.  Heat  the  okra  and 
other  ingredients,  and  serve. 

ARTICHOKE  SOUP 

lyi.  pounds  artichokes  i  pint  milk 

Ij4  ounces  butter  i  ounce  flour 

I  quart  water  or  water  in  which  Seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt 
artichokes  were  boiled 

Wash,  and  peel  the  artichokes,  and  cut  them  into  small 
pieces.  Saute  them  in  butter  for  five  minutes ;  add  the  boil- 
ing water,  and  cook  until  the  artichokes  are  tender  —  aibout 
twenty  minutes.  Rub  through  a  hair-sieve;  return  to  the 
saucepan.  Mix  the  flour  smoothly  with  a  little  of  the  milk, 
and  add  it  to  the  soup  when  boiling;  and  cook  for  five  min- 
utes.    Add  the  rest  of  the  milk.     Season  and  serve. 

CABBAGE  SOUP 

I  cabbage  shredded  '  ij^i  ounces  butter 

I  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  2  small  onions 

I  pint  milk  ij4  pints  boiling  water 

ij^  tablespoons  semolina  J^  teaspoon  salt 

%.  teaspoon  pepper 

Remove  the  outer  leaves  from  the  cabbage;  cut  it  in  half, 
and  soak  in  cold  water  one  hour,  then  cut  out  the  stalk, 
shred  the  cabbage  finely,  and  put  into  the  saucepan  with  the 
boiling  water,  the  milk,  the  onion,  the  parsley  chopped  very 
fine,  the  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Let  these  come  to  the  boiling  point,  and  cook  for  one  hour; 
sprinkle  in  the  semolina,  stirring  constantly,  and  then  boil 
ten  minutes  longer.     Serve  very  hot  with  toasted  bread,  cut 


SOUPS  65 

in  squares.     This  soup  is  improved  by  straining,  then  put  in 
a  saucepan  and  reheat. 

LEEK  SOUP 

J^  pound  leeks  i  quart  boiling  water 

Yt.  pound  potatoes  Salt  and  pepper 

I  ounce  butter 

Wash,  and  trim  the  leeks,  and  cut  them  into  slices.  Cut 
the  potatoes  into  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  small  walnut. 
Cook  the  vegetables  for  five  minutes  in  the  butter.  Add  the 
water,  and  cook  until  the  leeks  are  tender  and  the  potatoes 
break  up  —  about  one  hour.     Season  and  serve. 


y 


LENTIL  PUREE 

J4    pound    lentils    Egyptian    or     Yz  ounce  butter 

German  i  quart  cold  water 

Ya  pound  Spanish  onions  Pepper  and  salt 

3  ounces  carrots  Y^  ounce  flour 

2  sticks  celery  J^  pint  milk 

Y^  pound  turnips 

Wash  the  lentils,  and  soak  all  night  in  the  water.  Pre- 
pare the  vegetables,  and  cut  them  up.  Cook  for  five  min- 
utes in  the  butter,  add  the  lentils,  the  water  in  which  they 
were  soaked  and  salt.  Bring  to  boiling  point,  skim,  and 
simmer  for  two  hours.  Rub  through  a  hair-sieve.  Return 
to  the  saucepan,  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Mix  the 
flour  smoothly  with  the  milk,  add  it  to  the  soup,  and  cook 
for  ten  minutes.     Season  and  serve. 

LENTIL  SOUP 

1  cup  dried  lentils  i  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

2  teaspoons  salt  2  slices  onion 

I  tablespoon  butter  i  small  bay  leaf 

I  tablespoon  flour  ij^,  quarts  water 

Put  the  lentils,  bay  leaf  and  onion  to  boil  in  the  water, 
and  cook  slowly  for  three  hours  or  until  tender.     Then  put 


66  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

through  a  colander.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together,  and 
stir  in  a  little  of  the  soup ;  then  add  this  to  the  whole  of  the 
mixture,  and  boil  five  minutes.  Add  the  salt  and  lemon 
juice  just  before  serving.  This  should  make  one  quart  of 
soup.     If  not,  add  water  sufficient  to  make  this  quantity. 

CREAM  OF  LENTIL  SOUP 

I  cup  dry  lentils  3  tablespoons  butter 

3  cups  water  2  cups  milk 

3  tablespoons  flour  2  teaspoons  salt 

Soak  the  lentils  for  several  hours  in  three  cups  of  water. 
Cook  two  to  three  hours.  When  tender,  rub  through  the 
colander,  and,  if  necessary,  add  hot  water  sufficient  to  make 
one  pint  of  puree.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour 
and  milk,  and  add  gradually  to  the  lentil  puree,  reheat,  salt 
and  serve.     This  makes  one  quart. 

CREAM  OF  CRECY  SOUP 

3  medium-sized  carrots,  i%  cups     i  tablespoon  flour 
sliced  J4,  cup  cream 

1  cup  water  i  slice  onion  —  5^-inch  thick 

2  cups  milk  I  bay  leaf 

I  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  carrots  in  water.  Steep  bay  leaf  and  onion  in  the 
milk  and  cream  in  double  boiler.  Remove  onion  and  bay 
leaf,  and  thicken  with  flour.  Put  carrots  through  colander, 
and  add  to  the  thickened  milk  and  cream.  One  potato  with 
it  relieves  the  strong  taste.     Parsley  may  be  added. 

BEET  SOUP 

1  pound  cooked  beets  i  ounce  butter 

2  ounces  celery  J4  pint  water 
2  ounces  onion  i^  pints  milk 
I  ounce  carrot                                    2  ounces  flour 

Cut  the  beetroot  into  small  pieces,  and  cook  with  the 
other  vegetables  in  the  butter  for  five  minutes.     Add  the 


SOUPS  67 

water,  and  cook  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove  the  onion, 
celery,  and  carrot,  and  rub  the  beetroot  through  a  hair-sieve. 
Mix  the  flour  smoothly  with  a  little  milk,  and  boil  the  rest. 
Stir  in  the  flour,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Add  the  beet- 
root ;  boil  up.     Season  and  serve. 

RUSSIAN  BEET  SOUP 

I  cup  beet  pulp  i  tablespoon  cornflour 

I  cup  cream  i  tablespoon  sugar 

2j4  cups  water  ij4  teaspoons  salt 

4  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

Cook  three  medium-sized  "beets  until  tender,  put  them 
through  a  colander,  add  the  cream,  water,  sugar  and  salt, 
and  put  in  the  double  boiler.  To  the  flour  add  a  cup  of  hot 
liquid  from  the  double  boiler,  stirring  constandy  to  make 
a  smooth  paste.  Return  to  double  boiler,  and  stir  until  it 
thickens  slighdy.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  lemon 
by  spoonfuls. 

ALMOND  SOUP 

4  ounces  of  almonds  2  ounces  of  butter 

I  quart  of  milk  2  dozen  white  peppercorns 

6  cloves,  I  small  blade  of  mace        i  tablespoon  of  flour 
4  ounces  of  onions 

Put  the  milk  in  a  saucepan  with  the  cloves,  mace  and  pep- 
percorns ;  bring  it  to  the  boiling-point,  and  let  it  simmer. 

Chop  the  onions,  and  fry  them  in  the  butter  until  tender 
but  not  brown.  Add  them  to  the  milk,  and  let  it  boil  again ; 
then  let  it  simmer  for  half  an  hour ;  strain,  and  cool. 

Blanch  the  almonds,  put  them  through  a  nut  mill;  then 
pound  in  a  mortar,  adding  one  drop  of  water  occasionally 
to  prevent  oiling.  Add  the  cool  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  to 
the  almond  paste,  mixing  it  as  smoothly  as  possible. 

Now  boil  the  soup,  stirring  constantly.     Thicken  with 


68  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

either  a  tablespoon  of  white  roux  or  a  tablespoon  of  corn- 
flour.    Boil,  and  serve  with  croutons. 

CREAM  OF  ALMOND  SOUP 

J4  cup  rice  J4  pound  shelled  almonds 

2  quarts  hot  milk  i  tablespoon  sugar 

I  quart  boiling  water  i  cup  cold  water 

2  teaspoons  salt 

Wash  the  rice  thoroughly  by  pouring  boiling  water  over 
it  to  dissolve  the  polish;  finish  with  cold  water.  Add  the 
rice  to  the  boiling  water,  and  let  boil  actively  for  twelve 
to  fifteen  minutes;  then  drain  off  the  water,  and  add  the  par- 
tially cooked  rice  to  the  hot  milk.  Cook  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  Blanch  the  almonds  by  throwing  them  Into  boiling 
water  for  about  one  minute  or  until  the  skin  loosens  from  the 
nuts.  Place  them  between  towels.  Rub  vigorously  to  re- 
move skin.  Place  the  blanched  almonds  in  a  mortar,  and 
pound  them  with  a  pestle.  Add  a  little  cold  water  from 
time  to  time.  If  a  mortar  and  pestle  are  not  obtainable,  a 
wooden  chopping  bowl  and  potato  masher  will  suffice. 
When  the  nuts  have  been  reduced  to  a  paste,  add  to  the  rice 
and  milk;  then  add  the  sugar  and  salt.  A  few  drops  of 
almond  flavoring  may  be  used  Instead  of  the  almonds. 

CREAM  OF  DASHEEN  SOUP 

6  medium-sized  dasheens  J^  cup  cream 

I  pint  milk  2  teaspoons  salt 

J4  teaspoon  onion  salt 
Clean  the  dasheen  by  removing  the  coarse,  fibrous  cover- 
ing. Wash,  and  put  to  cook  in  boiling  water.  When  ten- 
der, which  win  require  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes'  cook- 
ing, remove  from  the  water,  peel,  and  mash  through  a  col- 
ander. Add  the  hot  milk  and  cream  slowly,  and  heat  to  the 
boiling  point.  Add  the  salt  and  onion  salt.  One  table- 
spoon butter  and  one-half  cup  milk  may  be  used  In  place  of 


SOUPS  69 

the  cream.     It  will  then  be  advisable  to  add  a  little  flour  for 
thickening. 

CREAM  OF  VEGETABLE  OYSTER  SOUP  NO.  i 

ij^  cups  diced  vegetable  oysters     ij4i  teaspoons  salt 
2  cups  water  i  cup  cream 

2  cups  milk 

Cook  the  vegetable  oysters  in  the  boiling,  salted  water. 
When  tender,  take  one-third  of  them,  and  put  the  remainder 
through  the  colander.  Add  to  this  puree  the  diced  vege- 
table oysters.  Heat  the  milk  and  cream  in  the  double  boiler, 
and  add  to  the  hot  puree.     Salt,  and  serve  at  once. 

An  additional  cup,  scant,  of  milk  and  two  table- 
spoons of  butter  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  cream  if  desired. 

CREAM  OF  VEGETABLE  OYSTER  SOUP  NO.  a 

1^3  cups  sliced  vegetable  oys-  i^  teaspoons  salt 

ters  3  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  water  3  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  milk 
Cook  the  vegetable  oysters  in  two  cups  water.  Take  out 
one-third  of  them.  Put  the  remainder  through  the  colander, 
and  add  this  pulp  to  the  sliced  vegetable  oysters.  Add  the 
white  sauce,  made  by  rubbing  together  the  butter  and  flour 
until  smooth,  and  adding  the  warm  milk  slowly.  AdTisaltr 
and  cook  for  ten  minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  After  combin- 
ing the  white  sauce  with  the  vegetable  oysters,  measure,  and 
add  water  sufl&cient  to  make  one  quart. 

CREAM  OF  BROWNED  ONION  SOUP 
4  medium-sized  onions  i  cup  water 

3  tablespoons    slightly    browned     3  tablespoons  butter 

flour  2  cups  milk 

ij^.  teaspoons  salt 

Slice  the  onions,  and  put  in  a  buttered  pan.  Add  a  little 
water,  cover,  and  put  in  the  oven,  covered.     When  the  on- 


70  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

ions  are  tender,  remove  the  cover,  and  brown.  Rub  the 
browned  onions  through  a  colander,  add  the  water,  and  the 
white  sauce,  made  by  adding  the  hot  milk  to  the  butter  and 
slightly  browned  flour  rubbed  together  until  smooth.  The 
white  sauce  should  cook  ten  minutes  in  a  double  boiler  before 
it  is  added  to  the  onion.  Reheat  the  soup,  salt  and  serve. 
This  makes  one  quart. 

ONION  SOUP 

J4  pound  Spanish  onions  i  ounce  patent  groats 

1/4,  ounces  butter  i  quart  milk 

Yz  pint  barley  stock  Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  the  onion  into  thin  slices,  and  fry  it  in  the  butter  to  a 
golden  brown.  Add  the  barley  stock,  and  cook  for  twenty 
minutes.  Mix  the  groats  smoothly  with  a  little  of  the  milk, 
and  boil  the  rest.  When  boiling,  add  the  groats,  and  boil 
for  ten  minutes.     Add  to  the  onion.     Season  and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  ONION  SOUP 

4  onions  3  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  flour 

I  cup  water 

Cut  the  onions  in  small  pieces,  and  cook  in  the  milk  and 
water.  Melt  the  butter,  add  flour,  adding  gradually  to  the 
milk  mixture.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  strain. 

TOMATO  SOUP  NO.  i 

Yz  can  tomatoes  J4  ounce  tapioca 

or  Y2  teaspoon  sugar 

I  pound  fresh  tomatoes  Pepper  and  salt 

I  quart  butter-bean  stock  Cheese-balls 

Put  the  tomatoes  and  stock  into  a  saucepan,  and  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes;  if  fresh  tomatoes  are  used,  they  should  be 
sliced.     Rub  through  a  sieve.     Return  to  the  saucepan,  and 


SOUPS  71 

bring  to  boiling  point.     Add  the  tapioca,  and  cook  for  half 
an  hour.     Season,  and  serve  with  cheese-balls. 

TOMATO  SOUP  NO.  a 

J4  can  tomatoes  i  pint  milk 

or  J^  ounce  flour 

I  pound  fresh  tomatoes  yi  teaspoon  sugar 

J^  ounce  chopped  onion  Salt  and  pepper 

I  ounce  butter  i  pint  boiling  water 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  cook  the  onion  in  it 
for  five  minutes.  Add  the  tomatoes  and  water,  and  cook 
for  thirty  minutes.  If  fresh  tomatoes  are  used,  they  should 
be  sliced  and  cooked  in  the  butter  with  the  onion.  Run  the 
tomatoes  through  a  sieve.  Mix  the  flour  smoothly  with  a 
little  of  the  milk,  and  put  the  rest  into  the  saucepan.  When 
boiling,  add  the  flour,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Add  the 
tomato,  and  boil.     Season  and  serve, 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP 

I  can  tomatoes  J^  cup  flour 

J^  cup  butter  3  teaspoons  salt 

I  quart  milk 

Cover,  and  stew  the  tomatoes  slowly  one-half  hour  to  an 
hour ;  add  speck  of  soda,  and  rub  through  a  strainer.  Make 
a  white  sauce,  and  add  the  strained  tomato  slowly.  One- 
third  cream  instead  of  all  milk  may  be  used,  and  adds  to  the 
flavor.  When  cream  Is  used,  two  tablespoons  of  butter  is 
all  that  is  necessary. 

Condensed  tomato  may  be  used  advantageously  in  this 
recipe,  in  which  case  use  one  and  one-quarter  cups  condensed 
tomato  and  an  equal  quantity  of  water.  It  is  not  necessary 
to  cook  this  before  adding  to  the  white  sauce,  except  to  bring 
it  to  the  boiling  point.  The  pinch  of  soda  must  be  added, 
however,  to  counteract  the  acidity  of  the  tomatoes. 


72  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

TOMATO  BISQUE 

I  quart  can  tomatoes  3  two-inch  sticks  cinnamon 

1  pint  water  3  slices  lemon 

2  teaspoons  salt  i  tablespoon  butter 
lyi  tablespoons  sugar                       3  tablespoons  flour 

I  cup  cream 

Cook  the  tomato,  sugar,  cinnamon,  lemon  and  salt  to- 
gether for  twenty  minutes.  Put  through  a  colander,  and 
bind  with  the  butter  and  flour.  Boil  five  minutes;  add  the 
hot  cream,  and  serve  at  once. 

If  preferred,  bay  leaf  and  onion  may  be  used  for  seasoning 
in  preference  to  the  cinnamon  and  lemon. 

Condensed  tomato  may  be  used  in  this  recipe,  In  which 
case  use  one  and  one-quarter  cups  of  condensed  tomatoes 
and  an  additional  two  and  one-half  cups  water. 

MOCK  BISQUE  SOUP 

2  cups  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  butter 

I  saltspoon  soda  3  tablespoons  flour  or  cornstarch 

4  cups  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Steam  the  tomatoes  until  soft  enough  to  strain  the  juice; 
strain,  add  soda,  and  allow  gases  to  pass  o'ff.  This  prevents 
the  tomato  curdling  the  milk. 

Scald  the  milk;  melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  and  pour  on 
gradually  the  scalding  milk.  Cook  thoroughly,  stirring  care- 
fully. 

Add  the  tomatoes  to  the  milk,  reheat  and  season  to  taste ; 
strain,  and  serve  immediately  with  crackers  or  croutons. 

CHESTNUT  FLOUR  SOUP 
I  quart  of  milk  l  small  onion 

4  ounces    of    prepared    chestnut     2  tablespoons  cream 
flour 

Boil  the  milk  with  the  onion  in  a  double  saucepan  for  one 
hour.     Mix  the  chestnut  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  with  the 


SOUPS  73 

cold  milk,  and  add  it  to  the  boiling  milk;  let  it  simmer  for 
30  minutes.     Remove  the  onion  and  add  the  cream. 

CREAM  OF  CHESTNUT  SOUP 

2  cups  mashed  chestnuts  4  tablespoons  flour 

4  tablespoons  butter  6  cups  milk 

ij^  teaspoons  salt 

Prepare  the  chestnuts  by  immersing  in  boiling  water,  and 
cooking  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  them  from  the  hot  water 
a  few  at  a  time,  and  with  a  sharp  paring  knife  quickly  remove 
both  skins.  Mash  them  through  a  colander.  Make  of  the 
remaining  ingredients  a  white  sauce.  Add  the  mashed  chest- 
nuts.    Reheat,  and  serve. 

CHESTNUT  SOUP  NO.  i 

I  quart  of  milk  2  bay  leaves 

I  pound  of  chestnuts  i  gill  cream 

Pepper  and  salt 

Put  the  chestnuts  Into  boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil  for 
45  minutes;  remove  the  shells  and  skins,  and  press  through 
a  sieve.  Stir  them  into  the  boiling  milk  in  a  double  sauce- 
pan, with  pepper,  salt  and  bay  leaves;  add  the  cream,  and 
serve  with  croutons. 

CHESTNUT  SOUP  NO.  2 

I  pound  chestnuts  6  cloves 

I  quart  milk  3  ounces  of  onions 

yi  ounce  butter  i  dozen  white  peppercorns 

Bake  the  chestnuts  either  on  the  stove  or  in  a  hot  oven 
until  the  skins  are  easily  removed,  which  will  be  in  ten  min- 
utes or  less.  Remove  the  skins,  and  drop  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan, in  which  the  milk,  with  the  peppercorn  and  cloves  — 
tied  in  a  bit  of  muslin  —  has  already  been  heated.  Place 
the  saucepan  on  the  stove  where  the  milk  will  keep  hot  with- 
out boiling.  ) 


74  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Slice  the  onion  very  thin,  and  fry  it  in  the  butter  until  ten- 
der; being  careful  that  it  does  not  brown.  Add  it  to  the 
milk,  and  let  it  simmer  until  the  chestnuts  are  tender,  which 
will  be  in  about  one-half  hour.  Remove  the  muslin  contain- 
ing the  cloves  and  peppercorns,  and  rub  all  through  a  sieve. 
Return  to  the  saucepan,  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of 
cornflour. 

BROWN  POTATO  SOUP 

One  pound  of  potatoes,  y^.  pound  of  onions,  both  chopped 
and  browned  in  butter  in  a  frying  pan ;  then  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  one  quart  of  water,  and  one  or  two  celery  stalks. 
Simmer  for  half  an  hour,  then  press  through  a  strainer. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice ;  add  a  tablespoon 
of  butter ;  more  water  or  milk  may  be  added  if  the  soup  is 
too  thick;  reheat  and  serve  with  croutons. 

CREAM  OF  POTATO  SOUP  NO.  i 

4  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  flour 

I  onion  I  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  mashed  potato  2  tablespoons  butter 

Pepper 

Scald  milk  with  onion  in  it,  remove  onion,  and  add  milk 
slowly  to  the  mashed  potatoes.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the 
flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  the  hot  mixture.  Cook 
thoroughly,  and  season  to  taste.  A  little  celery  salt  may 
!be  added,  and  finely  chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over  top  of 
soup. 

CREAM  OF  POTATO  SOUP  NO.  a 

2  large  or  3  medium-sized  pota-     i  pint  milk 

toes  Y2  cup  cream 

2  teaspoons  salt 

Scrub  the  potatoes,  pare,  slice,  and  cook  in  sufficient  boil- 
ing water  to  cover.     Put  through  a  colander  with  the  liquid 


SOUPS  75 

in  which  they  were  cooked.  Heat  the  milk  and  cream,  and 
add  to  the  mashed  potatoes.  Add  the  salt,  and  cook  five 
minutes. 

CREAM  OF  POTATO  SOUP  NO.  3 

2  medium-sized  potatoes  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  pint  of  milk  and  potato  water       i  tablespoon  flour 

2  teaspoons  grated  onion  J4  teaspoon  salt 

J^  teaspoon  celery  salt  2  teaspoons  chopped  parsley 

Wash,  pare,  and  slice  the  potatoes.  Cook  in  sufficient 
boiling  water  to  cover,  until  tender.  Drain  the  liquid  into 
.  a  pint  measure,  and  mash  the  potatoes.  Add  sufficient  milk 
to  fill  the  pint  measure,  and  turn  into  the  mashed  potatoes. 
Add  the  grated  onion,  salt  and  celery  salt  to  the  liquid. 
Rub  the  flour  and  butter^  together,  and  pour  over  it,  stirring 
meanwhile  the  hot  liquids.  Cook  until  thickened.  Add  this 
to  the  mashed  potatoes,  cook  five  minutes  and  add  the 
chopped  parsley  just  before  serving. 

CREAM  OF  SWEET  POTATO  SOUP 

6  small  sweet  potatoes  i  cup  cream 

I  quart  water  i^  teaspoons  salt 

lj4  teaspoons  minced  parsley 

Peel  potatoes,  and  immerse  at  once  in  cold  water  to  which 
has  been  added  a  little  flour  to  prevent  discoloration.  Drain, 
and  cook  in  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover.  When  ten- 
der, drain,  and  rub  through  a  colander.  This  should  make 
three  cups  of  mashed  potatoes.  Add  water,  cream,  salt  and 
parsley.  Reheat,  and  serve.  The  water  in  which  the  pota- 
toes are  cooked  may  be  used  as  a  part  of  the  liquid  unless 
very  dark. 

This  soup  should  have  the  consistency  of  rich  cream  and 
is  greatly  improved  by  adding  two  tablespoons  of  brandy 
just  before  it  is  removed  from  the  fire.     Serve  with  croutons. 


76  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

VERMICELLI  SOUP 

I  quart  clear  soup 
1  ounce  vermicelli 
Salt  and  pepper 

Break  the  vermicelli  into  short  lengths,  and  cook  In  the 
boiling  soup  until  tender,  and  then  serve. 

WHITE  SOUP 

1  pound  potatoes  ij^  pints  boiling  water 

2  leeks  Salt  and  pepper 

or  I  pint  milk 

J4  pound  Spanish  onions  ^  ounce  flour 

2  sticks  of  celery  Y2  gill  cooked  green  peas 

%  ounce  butter 

Cut  the  vegetables  into  small  pieces,  and  cook  in  the  but- 
ter for  five  minutes.  Add  to  water,  bring  to  boiling  point, 
skim,  and  add  one  teaspoon  salt.  Simmer  until  the  vege- 
tables are  tender  —  about  thirty  minutes.  Rub  through  a 
sieve.  Mix  the  flour  smoothly  with  a  little  of  the  milk. 
Put  the  potato  and  rest  of  the  milk  back  on  the  stove  Into 
the  saucepan ;  when  boiling,  add  the  flour,  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes.     Add  the  peas.     Season  and  serve. 

MILK  AND  CHEESE  SOUP 

3  cups  of  milk  —  or  part  milk     i  cup  grated  cheese 

and  part  stock  Salt  and  paprika 

ij/^  tablespoons  flour 

Thicken  the  milk  with  the  flour,  cooking  thoroughly. 
This  Is  best  done  in  a  double  boiler,  with  frequent  stirrings. 
When  ready  to  serve,  add  the  cheese  and  the  seasoning. 

The  protelds  In  this  soup  are  equal  in  amount  to  those  in 
five-sixths  of  a  pound  of  beef  of  average  composition;  its 
fuel  value  is  higher  than  that  of  a  pound  of  beef. 


SOUPS  77 

CHEESE  AND  VEGETABLE  SOUP 

2  cups  of  Stock  2  tablespoons  of  flour 

I  tablespoon    of    finely    chopped  ij^  teaspoons  salt 

carrots  i  cup  of  scalded  milk 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  J4  <^"P  grated  cheese 

2  tablespoons  butter  A  little  mace 

Cook  the  vegetables  a  short  time  in  one-half  the  butter; 
add  the  stock  and  the  mace,  boiling  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 
Strain,  and  add  the  milk.  Thicken  with  flour  coolced  in  the 
remaining  butter.  Just  before  serving,  stir  in  the  cheese, 
and  cook  until  it  is  melted. 

SWISS  SOUP 

2  pounds  Jerusalem  artichokes         2  ounces  butter 

3  stalks  of  celery  I  quart  milk 
I  large  onion                                    2  bay  leaves 

Peel  the  artichokes  and  throw  them  Into  vinegar  and 
water ;  then  put  them  with  the  onion  and  celery  In  a  saucepan 
with  the  melted  butter ;  cover  the  pan,  and  let  the  vegetables 
steam  until  tender,  taking  care  they  do  not  brown.  When 
soft,  add  the  milk,  which  must  heat  slowly  but  not  boil;  re- 
move the  onion  and  celery,  and  rub  the  rest  through  a 
strainer  with  a  wooden  spoon;  put  the  puree  back  In  the 
pan  with  the  salt,  pepper  and  the  bay  leaves;  keep  it  hot, 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  about  half  an  hour.  Before 
serving,  remove  the  bay  leaves,  and  stir  in  ^  cup  of  hot 
cream  or  one  ounce  of  butter. 

DRIED  FRUIT  SOUP 

'  I  cup  dried  apricots  i  quart  cold  water 

I  cup  prunes  •        Sugar  to  taste 

Wash  the  fruit  perfectly  clean.  Cook  In  the  water  until 
very  soft.  Strain,  and  press  out  aU  the  juice;  sweeten  to 
taste. 

Thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  rice  flour  to  one  quart  of 


78  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

liquid.     Cook  twenty  minutes  to  remove  the  raw  taste  of  the 
flour. 

TAPIOGA  SOUP 

I  quart  bean  stock 
4  ounces  tapioca 
Seasoning    • 

Boil  the  stock  In  a  saucepan  and  sprinkle  in  the  tapioca. 
Cook  for  twenty  minutes.     Season  with  pepper  and  salt.     ■ 

WESTOVER  SOUP 

4  potatoes  ij^.  teaspoons  salt 

I  quart  milk  J4  teaspoon  celery  salt 

1  onion  %  teaspoon  pepper 
3  tablespoons  butter  Few  grains  paprika 

2  tablespoons  flour  3  tablespoons  tomato  catsup 

I  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

Cook  the  potatoes  in  boiling,  salted  water  half  an  hour, 
and  rub  through  a  strainer.  Scald  the  milk  with  the  onion, 
remove  the  onion,  and  add  milk  slowly  to  potatoes.  Melt 
the  butter,  add  dry  ingredients,  stir  until  well  mixed,  then 
stir  into  boiling  soup;  cook  twenty  minutes,  strain,  add  to- 
mato catsup,  and  sprinkle  with  parsley. 

OREAM  OF  SQUASH  SOUP 

I  pint  of  mashed  squash  i  tablespoon  butter 

I  quart  milk  i  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  flour  ij4  tablespoons  sugar 

Whipped  cream 

Put  the  squash,  which  may  be  freshly  cooked  or  canned, 
with  the  milk,  sugar  and  salt  in  a  saucepan,  and  heat.  Mix 
the  butter  and  flour  together,  and  stir  the  hot  liquid  into  it. 
Cook  gently  for  five  minutes.  Place  a  spoon  of  whipped 
cream  on  top  of  each  individual  serving. 


SOUPS  79 

OATMEAL  AND  MUSHROOM  SOUP 

3  tablespoons  butter  i  teaspoon  salt 

1  medium-sized  onion  I  quart  water 
J^  cup  oatmeal                                   i  pint  milk 

Yz  cup  chopped  mushrooms 
Peel  the  onion,  and  chop  finely.  Place  in  the  Inner  por- 
tion of  the  double  boiler  with  the  butter,  and  cook  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes.  Then  add  the  oatmeal  and  the  boiling 
water.  Cook  directly  over  the  flame  for  about  ten  minutes. 
Then  place  in  the  double  boiler,  and  cook  from  two  to  three 
hours.  Rub  through  a  colander,  and  add  the  milk.  When 
thoroughly  heated,  add  the  chopped  mushrooms  and  salt. 
The  mushrooms  are  somewhat  improved  in  flavor  by  broil- 
ing a  few  minutes  before  adding  to  the  soup.  If  desired,  a 
spoon  of  whipped  cream  may  be  added  to  each  serving. 

WASHINGTON  CHOWDER 

2  medium-sized  potatoes,   i^  I  cup  stewed  tomatoes 

cups  sliced  i  cup  com 

ij^.  cups  water  i  cup  milk 

Yz  small  onion  i  cup  cream 

I  teaspoon  salt 

Slice  the  onion,  and  cook  with  the  potatoes  in  the  boiling, 
salted  water.  When  tender,  add  the  tomatoes  and  corn,  and 
bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Heat  the  cream  and  milk,  and 
add  to  the  vegetables  just  before  serving.  Serve  hot  over 
crackers. 

CORN  CHOWDER 

Y^  can  corn  i  onion  sliced 

1  pint  sliced  potatoes  I  pint  of  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  J4  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  water 

Cook  the  onion  In  the  double  boiler  In  one-half  the  butter 
for  twenty  minutes.     Add  the  sliced  potatoes  and  one  cup 


8o  MEATLESS  COOKERY. 

boIUng  water.  Cook  directly  over  the  flame  until  the  pota- 
toes are  tender.  Add  the  corn,  milk  and  the  remainder  of 
the  butter.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  salt,  and  serve 
hot  over  crackers. 

POTATO  CHOWDER 

J4  pint  sliced  tomatoes  J^  small  onion 

I  pint  boiling  water  i5^,  cups  milk 

I  teaspoon  salt  J/2  cup  cream 

Put  the  potatoes  to  cook  in  the  boiling  water  with  the 
salt  and  sliced  onion.  When  tender,  put  two-thirds  of  them 
through  a  colander,  and  add  to  the  remainder  of  the  pota- 
toes. Add  the  milk  and  cream,  reheat,  and  serve  over 
crackers.     This  quantity  should  make  one  quart. 


MEAT .  SUBSTITUTES 

Digestive  cheese  and  fruit  there  sure  will  be. 

Ben  Jonson. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLfi 

yi  ounce  cornstarch  i  ounce  grated  cheese 

I  ounce  butter  Small  pinch  bicarbonate  soda 

Pepper  and  salt,  cayenne  J^  pint  of  milk 

Mix  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  milk,  put  the  rest  on 
to  boil,  add  the  moistened  cornstarch  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 
Add  the  pepper,  salt,  cayenne,  butter,  soda  and  cheese. 
Then  bake  for  fifteen  minutes  and  serve  at  once. 

CORN  AND  CHEESE 

I  tablespoon  butter  I  cup  chopped  com 

1  tablespoon  chopped  green  pep-     i  cup  grated  cheese 

per  ij/^,  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  flour  Pepper 

2  cups  milk 

Melt  the  butter,  and  cook  the  peppers  thoroughly  in  it. 
Make  a  sauce  out  of  the  flour,  milk  and  cheese ;  add  the  com 
and  seasoning.  Turn  Into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes. 

WELSH  RAREBIT  NO.  i 

I  tablespoon  butter  J^  pound  cheese  cut  into  small 

I  teaspoon  cornstarch  pieces 

fi  cup  milk  ^  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  mus- 

tard 
Speck  of  cayenne  pepper 

Cook  the  cornstarch  in  the  butter ;  add  the  milk  gradually, 
cook  two  minutes;  add  the  cheese,  and  stir  until  it  is  well 

8i 


82  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

melted.     Season,  and  serve  on  crackers  or  bread  toasted  on 
one  side,  the  rarebit  being  poured  over  the  untoasted  side. 

WELSH  RAREBIT  NO.  2 

4  ounces  Cheddar  cheese  2  tablespoons  milk 

I  ounce  butter  Speck  of  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne 

Shave  four  ounces  of  Cheddar  cheese,  and  add  to  it  two 
tablespoons  of  milk  and  a  little  butter ;  put  it  in  a  saucepan, 
and  set  it  on  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  stirring  constantly 
until  it  is  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Serve  at  once  on 
hot  toast.     A  little  mustard  may  be  added  if  desired. 

WELSH  RAREBIT  NO.  3 

Melt  one  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  add  one 
tablespoon  of  cream.  When  hot  put  in  the  cheese,  one  cup 
grated,  pepper,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  shake  of  paprika, 
stir  over  the  fire  until  the  consistency  of  rich  cream,  pour  over 
hot  buttered  toast  and  serve  immediately.  A  teaspoon  of 
curry  powder  added  to  the  mixture  a  few  minutes  before 
it  is  taken  off  the  range  is  a  desirable  addition.  Half  a 
cup  of  ale  or  beer  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  cream. 

BAKED  CRACKERS  AND  CHEESE  NO.  1 

9  or  10  butter  crackers  or  Bos-  lyi  cups  milk 

ton  crackers  J4  teaspoon  salt 

^  pound  of  cheese  or  i  cup  grated  Flour 
cheese 

Split  the  crackers  if  the  thick  sort  are  selected,  or  with 
a  sharp  knife  cut  them  into  pieces  of  uniform  size.  Pour 
the  milk  over  them,  and  drain  it  off  at  once.  With  the  milk, 
flour,  cheese  and  salt  make  a  sauce.  Into  a  buttered  baking 
dish,  put  alternate  layers  of  the  soaked  crackers  and  sauce. 
Cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  brown  in  the  oven,  or  simply 
reheat  without  covering  with  crumbs. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES       '  83 

The  above  is  a  very  satisfactory  substitute  for  macaroni 
and  cheese,  and  can  be  prepared  in  less  time. 

BAKED  CRACKERS  AND  CHEESE  NO.  2 

9  or  10  butter  crackers  or  soda     i  cup  grated  cheese 
crackers  34  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  hot  milk,  whole  or 
skimmed 

This  is  more  quickly  prepared  than  the  preceding  recipe, 
but  as  the  milk  is  likely  to  curdle,  it  has  not  so  good  a  con- 
sistency. 

Soak  the  crackers  in  the  milk;  place  them  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  the  cheese;  pour  over 
them  the  remaining  milk,  and  bake.  This  dish  may  be 
covered  with  buttered  crumbs.  Variety  may  be  secured,  in 
either  this  recipe  or  the  preceding  one,  by  putting  a  very 
small  amount  of  mixed  mustard  on  each  cracker. 

CHEESE  ROLLS 

A  large  variety  of  rolls  may  be  made  by  combining  leg- 
umes, either  beans  of  various  kinds,  cowpeas,  lentils  or  peas, 
with  cheese  of  various  kinds,  and  adding  bread  crumbs  to 
make  the  mixture  thick  enough  to  form  into  a  roll.  Beans 
are  usually  mashed,  but  peas  or  small  lima  beans  may  be 
combined  whole  with  bread  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  and 
enough  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  vegetables  have  been 
cooked  may  be  added  to  get  the  right  consistency.  Or,  in- 
stead of  beans  and  peas,  chopped  spinach,  beet  tops  or  head 
lettuce  may  be  used.  Homemade  cottage  cheese  and  the 
soft  cream  cheese  of  commerce,  standard  cheese,  or  English 
dairy  may  be  used.  Variety  may  be  obtained  also  by  vary- 
ing the  flavoring.  Among  the  best  are  onion,  chives  and 
sweet  pepper.  These  should  be  cooked  before  mixing  with 
the  roll.  Other  flavors  are  mustard,  curry,  chopped  olives, 
onion  juice  and  nutmeg. 


84  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

BOSTON  ROAST 

1  pound  can  kidney  beans  or  like     Bread  crumbs 

quantity  of  cooked  beans  J^  pound  grated  cheese 

Salt 

Mash  the  beans,  or  put  them  through  a  meat  grinder. 
Add  the  cheese  and  sufficient  bread  crumbs  to  make  the  mix- 
ture stiff  enough  to  be  formed  into  a  roll.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven,  basting  occasionally  with  butter  and  water.  Serve 
with  tomato  sauce.  This  dish  may  be  flavored  with  onions, 
chopped  and  cooked  in  butter  and  water. 

PIMENTO  AND  CHEESE  ROAST 

2  cups  cooked  lima  beans  3  canned  pimentos  chopped 
%  pound  cream  cheese,  commer-     Bread  crumbs 

cial  or  homemade 

Put  the  first  three  ingredients  through  a  nut  chopper. 
Mix  thoroughly,  and  add  bread  crumbs  until  it  is  stiff  enough 
to  form  into  a  ball.  Brown  in  the  oven,  basting  occasionally; 
with  butter  and  water. 

NUT  AND  CHEESE  ROAST 

I  cup  grated  cheese  i  tablespoon  butter 

I  cup  chopped  English  walnuts        Juice  of  J^  lemon 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  2  tablespoons  chopped  onions 

Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  the  onion  in  the  butter,  and  a  little  water  until  it 
is  tender.  Mix  the  other  ingredients,  and  moisten  with 
water,  using  the  water  in  which  the  onion  has  been  cooked. 
Pour  into  a  shallow  baking  dish,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

CHEESE  AND  SPINACH  ROLL 

2  quarts  spinach  i  cup  grated  cheese 
I  tablespoon  butter                            Bread  crumbs 

Salt 

Cook  the  spinach  in  water  for  ten  minutes.     Drain  off  the 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  85 

water,  add  the  butter,  cook  until  tender,  and  chop.  Add  the 
grated  cheese,  and  then  bread  crumbs  enough  to  make  a 
mixture  sufficiently  stiff  to  form  into  a  roll;  or  leave  more 
moist,  and  cook  in  a  baking  dish. 

VEGETABLE  AND  CHEESE  ROLLS 

For  the  spinach  of  the  above  recipe  there  may  be  substi- 
tuted beet  tops,  Swiss  chard,  or  the  outer  leaves  of  lettuce. 

CHEESE  WITH  MUSH 

Cheese  may  be  added  to  cornmeal  or  to  mush  made  from 
any  of  the  corn  or  wheat  preparations  now  on  the  market. 
The  addition  of  cheese  to  cornmeal  mush  is  particularly  de- 
sirable when  the  mush  is  to  be  fried. 

FRIED  BREAD  WITH  CHEESE  NO.  i 

6  slices  of  bread  Yt,  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  y^  teaspoon   potassium  bicarbon- 

2  ounces  cheese  ate 

or  Butter  or  other  fat  for  frying 

Yz  cup  grated  cheese 

Scald  the  milk  with  the  potassium  bicarbonate;  add  the 
grated  cheese,  and  stir  until  it  dissolves.  Dip  the  bread  in 
this  mixture,  and  fry  it  in  the  butter.  The  potassium  bi- 
carbonate helps  to  keep  the  cheese  in  solution.  It  is  desir- 
able, however,  to  keep  the  milk  hot  while  the  bread  is  being 
dipped. 

FRIED  BREAD  WITH  CHEESE  NO.  2 

Cut  stale  bread  into  thin  pieces.  Put  two  pieces  together 
with  grated  cheese  between  them.  Dip  into  milk,  and  fry 
in  butter  or  vegetable  fat.  Season  the  cheese  with  salt  and 
paprika.  An  additional  flavor  may  be  obtained  by  adding  a 
few  drops  of  onion  juice  or  sprinkling  the  cheese  with 
mustard. 


86  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

CHEESE  AND  BREAD  ROLLS 
Take  a  breakfast  roll,  and  cut  it  in  half,  remove  some  of 
the  inside  and  fill  with  one  tablespoon  of  Parmesan  cheese, 
seasoned  with  salt,  paprika,  a  pinch  of  mustard,  and  moist- 
ened with  a  teaspoon  of  cream.  Put  the  halves  together  and 
pour  a  tablespoon  of  milk  over  the  roll.  Put  in  the  oven  for 
a  few  minutes  until  the  cheese  is  melted  and  serve  very  hot. 

FRIED  RAMEQUINS 

%  pound  Gloucester  cheese  i  ounce  butter 

Cayenne  and  salt  i  ounce  crushed  nuts 

I  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

Mix  the  grated  cheese,  with  melted  butter,  nuts,  and  add 
the  seasoning.  Put  on  pieces  of  bread  in  a  well  buttered  fry- 
ing pan,  have  the  pan  very  hot,  and  fry  five  minutes.  Serve 
at  once. 

CANADIAN  CHEESE  PUDDING 

4  ounces  grated  cheese  i  small  teaspoon  mixed  mustard 

3  ounces  bread  crumbs  Y^  pint  milk 

I  ounce  butter  Pepper  and  salt 

Boil  the  milk,  and  pour  it  over  the  bread  crumbs,  and  let 
them  stand  on  the  stove — covered  up — for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Now  mix  in  the  grated  cheese,  mustard,  seasoning 
and  butter.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  and  put  in  the  mixture, 
and  bake  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven.     Serve  immediately. 

CHEESE  RAMEQUINS  NO.  i 

J4  pound  of  pastry  i  ounce  grated  cheese 

Make  the  pastry  from  the  recipe  for  tarts.     Roll  out  the 

pastry  very  thin;  sprinkle  over  it  half  the  grated  cheese,  fold 

the  pastry  again,  and  roll  out  an  inch  thick.     Sprinkle  the 

rest  of  the  cheese. 

Stamp  it  into  small  rounds  with  a  small  pastry  cutter. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  87 

fold  the  pastry  again,  and  roll  it  out  into  an  inch  thick. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  and  serve  hot  piled  on  a  dish, 

•  CHEESE  RAMEQUINS  NO.  2 

4  ounces  grated  cheese  i  small  teaspoon  mixed  mustard 

3  ounces  bread  crumbs  J^  pint  milk 

I  ounce  butter 

Boil  the  milk,  and  pour  over  it  the  bread  crumbs,  and  let 
them  stand  on  the  stove,  covered  up,  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Now  mix  in  the  grated  cheese,  mustard  and  butter.  Butter 
some  little  china  ramequin  cases,  and  fill  them  three  parts 
full  of  the  mixture.  Bake  for  about  ten  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven,  and  serve  immediately. 

BOILED  FONDUE 

ij^  cups  bread  crumbs  2  tablespoons  butter 

i^,  cups  milk  6  ounces  crackers 

Ij4  cups   cheese  cut   into   small  pieces 

Soak  the  bread  in  the  milk.  Melt  the  butter,  and  add  the 
cheese.  When  the  cheese  has  melted,  add  the  soaked  crumbs 
and  the  seasoning.  Cook  a  short  time,  and  serve  on  toasted 
crackers. 

CHEESE  FONDUE 

lys  cups  hot  milk  j4  pound  of  cheese 

lyi  cups  of  soft,  stale  bread  i^  cups  grated  cheese 

crumbs  or 

I  tablespoon  butter  i  cup  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces 

j4  teaspoon  salt 

In  making  these  fondues,  rice  or  other  cereals  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  bread  crumbs.  One-fourth  cup  of  rice  measured 
before  cooking,  or  one  cup  of  cooked  rice  or  other  cereals, 
should  be  used. 

An  advantage  of  omitting  butter  from  cheese  dishes  and 
of  substituting  water  or  skimmed  milk  for  whole  milk  is 
that  it  makes  it  possible  to  increase  the  amount  of  cheese 


88  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

without  making  the  dish  too  rich.  This  is  of  advantage  to 
those  who  like  the  flavor  of  cheese,  and,  also,  because  it 
tends  to  increase  the  tissue-forming  value  of  the  dish,  partic- 
ularly if  skimmed  milk  is  used  rather  than  water. 

PEPPERS  AND  CHEESE 

2  ounces  of  cheese  i  tablespoon  of  butter 

1  tablespoon  chopped  peppers  Paprika,  salt  and  mustard 

Melt  the  cheese  in  a  saucepan  with  the  butter,  and  add  the 
finely  chopped  peppers  and  the  seasoning  to  taste.  Cook 
until  well  blended  and  serve  on  rounds  of  toast. 

CHEESE  DUMPLING 

6  ounces  of  cheese  i  onion 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste  Paste 

Partly  cook  the  onion,  strain,  and  chop  finely;  grate  the 
cheese,  add  to  the  onion  with  the  pepper.  Have  ready  some 
paste,  and  put  the  mixture  in  the  center.  Enclose,  and  form 
into  a  ball,  and  dust  with  flour;  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth,  and  boil 
one  and  one-half  to  two  hours. 

CHEESE  FINGERS 

2  slices  of  toast  2  ounces  sweet  almonds 

1  tablespoon  cream  i  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

2  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan         Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Blanch  the  almonds,  and  cut  them  in  four,  fry  in  the  butter 
till  a  golden  brown,  and  drain  well.  Mix  together  the  cream 
and  cheese,  pepper,  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  and  spread  the 
mixture  on  the  toast ;  cut  into  lengths  about  one  and  one-half 
inches  wide,  sprinkle  the  almonds  on  top ;  serve  hot. 

SAVORY  CHEESE  CAKES 

2  ounces  rice  i  tablespoon  mixed  sweet  herbs 

2  ounces  mashed  potatoes  3  ounces  grated  cheese 

J^,  pint  of  milk  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  89 

Cook  the  rice  in  the  milk  for  fifteen  minutes ;  then  add  the 
cheese  and  mixed  herbs.  Let  it  boil  for  five  minutes  longer ; 
then  add  the  mashed  potatoes  and  pepper  and  salt.  Form 
into  flat  cakes,  and  roll  into  rusk  crumbs  or  white  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  oil. 

CHEESE  CROQUETTES 

3  tablespoons  butter  i  cup  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces 

^  cup  flour  Y2  cup  grated  cheese 

Yi  cup  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Make  with  a  white  sauce,  using  the  butter,  flour  and  the 
milk.  Add  the  grated  cheese.  As  soon  as  the  cheese  melts 
remove  from  the  fire,  fold  in  pieces  of  cheese,  and  add  the 
seasoning.  Spread  in  a  shallow  pan,  and  cool.  Cut  into 
squares  or  strips,  cover  with  a  crumb  mixture,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

MOCK  BEEF  RISSOLES 

3  ounces  fine  rusk-crumbs  ^  pint  of  milk 

3  ounces  grated  cheese  i  teaspoon  made  mustard 

3  ounces  grated  horse-radish 

Mix  well  together  the  rusk-crumbs,  cheese,  mustard,  pep- 
per, and  horse-radish.  Boil  the  milk,  and  pour  it  over  them, 
allowing  it  to  stand  for  one  hour.  Mix  all  together,  roll 
in  fine  rusk-crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  oil.     Serve  very  hot. 

RISSOLES 

2  ounces  bread  raspings  4  ounces  onion 

2  ounces  grated  cheese  I  saltspoon  pepper  and  salt 

4  ounces  mashed  potato  i  heaping    tablespoon    chopped 
Oil  parsley 

Put  the  bread  crumbs,  cheese,  potatoes,  parsley,  pepper 
and  salt  into  a  bowl  large  enough  to  mix  them  thoroughly. 
Peel  and  slice  the  onion,  and  throw  it  into  cold  water;  let 
it  boil  up  quickly,  and  remain  boiling  for  one  minute,  then 


90  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

drain  it,  and  chop  it  finely,  adding  it  to  the  other  ingredients 
in  the  bowl.  Mix  all  thoroughly,  and  moisten  with  the  milk. 
Mix  again  very  carefully,  cover  the  mixture,  and  let  it  stand 
for  at  least  four  hours.  Now  form  it  into  any  shape  pre- 
ferred, and  fry  in  salad  oil  or  butter.  Prepare  the  bread 
raspings  according  to  recipe  given.  The  rissoles  are  equally 
good  either  hot  or  cold;  but  it  must  be  remembered  that  they 
are  Intended  as  a  relish  to  plainer  food.  They  are  very 
nourishing,  being  weight  for  weight  of  rather  more  value 
than  beef  or  mutton. 

SAVORY  PUDDING 

J4  pound  bread  raspings  i  heaping    tablespoon    chopped 

4  ounces  grated  cheese  parsley 

4  ounces  mashed  potatoes  J4  P'nt  milk 

4  ounces  onion  I  saltspoon  each  of  pepper  and 

salt 

Pour  the  milk  over  the  bread  raspings,  mix  well,  and  put 
them  aside  for  four  hours  or  more.  They  must  be  closely 
covered.  Now  peel,  and  slice  the  onion,  and  put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  cold  water;  let  it  boil  up  quickly,  and  continue 
to  boil  for  a  minute.  Drain  it,  and  chop  it  finely,  and  add  it, 
with  the  other  ingredients,  to  the  soaked  bread  raspings. 
Butter  a  mold  rather  thickly,  and  fill  with  the  mixture. 
Steam  for  three  hours. 

CHEESE  PUDDING  NO.  i 

Yt.  pound  bread  crumbs  Yt,  pound  grated  cheese 

I  pint  milk  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Prepare  the  cheese,  which  should  be  a  stale  Gruyere  or 
Cheddar,  add  it  to  the  bread  crumbs,  warm  the  milk,  and 
pour  it  over  the  cheese  and  bread  crumbs ;  add  the  seasoning. 
When  the  mixture  is  cool,  put  into  a  pudding  basin,  and 
steam  for  about  half  an  hour. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  91 

CHEESE  PUDDING  NO.  2 

6  ounces  grated  cheese  i  ounce  butter 

4  ounces  mashed  potatoes  3  ounces  rice 

Pepper  to  taste 

Pick  over  the  rice,  and  throw  into  boiling  water ;  let  it  cook 
for  half  an  hour,  then  drain,  and  when  cool,  line  a  pudding 
basin  with  the  rice,  and  fill  up  with  the  following  mixture: 
Mash  the  potatoes  with  the  butter,  add  the  grated  cheese  and 
seasoning,  mix  all  together,  and  fill  the  basin.  Put  a  greased 
paper  on  top,  and  steam  for  half  an  hour. 

BAKED  CHEESE,  GERMAN  DISH 

4  ounces  cheese  I  onion  or  shallot  the  size  of  a 

J4  ounce  butter  filbert 

J4  pint  milk  Pepper  and  salt 

If  the  cheese  is  fresh,  it  may  be  cut  into  thin  slices,  but  if 
dry  it  must  be  grated.  Place  it  at  the  bottom  of  a  shallow 
baking  dish.  Slice  the  onion,  and  throw  it  into  cold  tvater; 
bring  it  quickly  to  a  boiling  point,  and  let  it  boil  one  minute, 
then  drain  it,  and  mince  it  finely,  and  sprinkle  it  over  the 
cheese  with  the  seasoning.  Pour  the  milk  over  the  cheese, 
and  bake  it  in  a  hot  oven  until  it  sets.  Sprinkle  the  top  with 
bread  raspings.  Return  it  to  the  oven  for  one  minute,  and 
serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

BOILED  RICE 

Wash  one  cup  of  rice  in  several  waters,  rubbing  the  grains 
between  the  hands  until  the  floury  coating  is  removed.  This 
■  flour  makes  it  pasty,  and  holds  the  grains  together.  Put  the 
washed  rice  in  a  saucepan  with  two  and  one  half  cups  of 
water  and  one  teaspoon  salt.  Cover  and  place  where  the 
water  will  boil.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes,  being  careful  not 
to  let  it  burn.  At  the  end  of  this  time  put  the  saucepan  on 
a  tripod  or  ring  and  cover  the  rice  with  a  fold  of  cheese- 


92  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

cloth.  Let  it  continue  to  cook  In  this  manner  for  an  hour; 
then  turn  into  a  hot  vegetable  dish.  The  rice  will  be  tender, 
dry  and  sweet,  and  each  grain  separate.  The  rice  must  not 
be  stirred  while  cooking.  If  a  tablespoon  of  butter  is  cut  up 
and  sprinkled  over  the  rice  when  it  has  cooked  twenty 
minutes,  the  dish  will  be  greatly  improved. 

STEAMED  OR  CREAMED  RICE 

I  cup  rice  ij4  cups  milk 

I  cup  water  Yz  cup  cream 

I  teaspoon  salt 

Wash  the  rice  thoroughly,  and  cook  in  the  boiling  water. 
Boil  five  minutes,  then  set  in  the  double  boiler,  and  cook  until 
the  water  is  mostly  absorbed.  Heat  the  milk  and  cream  in 
the  double  boiler,  and  add  to  the  rice.  Add  salt,  and  finish 
cooking  in  the  double  boiler,  which  will  require  about  one 
hour.  If  cream  is  not  convenient,  use  an  additional  one-half 
cup  of  milk,  and  one'tablespoon  butter. 

Do  not  stir  except  to  lift  gently  once  or  twice  with  a  fork. 

TURKISH  PILAF 

Yi  cup  washed  rice  i  cup  brown  vegetable  stock 

y^  cup  strained  tomatoes  3  tablespoons  butter 

Add  tomatoes  to  the  stock,  and  heat  to  the  boiling  point. 
Add  rice,  and  steam  until  the  rice  is  soft.  Stir  in  the  butter 
with  a  fork,  and  keep  uncovered  so  that  steam  may  escape. 

RISOTTO 

1  teacup  of  rice  i  teacup  of  grated  cheese 

2  ounces  butter  Cayenne  and  salt  to  taste 

Yz  pint  stock  —  vegetable 

Cook  the  rice  in  the  stock  for  two  hours  and  a  half  in  a 
double  saucepan,  add  the  butter,  cheese  and  seasoning,  and 
serve  very  hot. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  93 

RICE  BOILED  FOR  CURRY 
Rice  Water  Butter 

The  rice  should  be  picked  over,  but  not  washed.  Throw 
it  into  plenty  of  quickly  boiling  water,  and  let  it  continue 
to  boil  quickly  for  one  minute.  Then  pour  in  a  very  little 
cold  water  to  check  it.  It  should  now  boil  slowly  but  contin- 
uously for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  It  is  boiled  enough  if 
the  grains  are  soft  when  pressed  between  the  thumb  and 
finger.  Drain  it,  and  return  to  the  saucepan,  which  should 
be  dried  and  buttered.  Cover  it  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  allow 
it  to  steam  on  the  stove,  where  it  is  not  too  hot,  or  in  a  slow 
oven.  Stir  it  lightly  with  a  fork,  and  let  it  remain  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Each  grain  should  then  swell  up,  and 
be  well  separated. 

RICE  AND  CHEESE  NO.  i 

I  breakfast  cup  of  rice  J^  pint  of  milk 

4  ounces  grated  cheese 

Wash  the  rice,  and  boil  It  till  cooked  in  a  double  sauce- 
pan. Strain  well,  and  add  the  milk,  a  spoonful  of  butter, 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Simmer  again  together ;  grease  a  pie  dish  well,  and  fill  up 
with  alternate  layers  of  the  above  mixture  and  the  grated 
cheese.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  on  the  top  and  a  few  pieces 
of  butter.  Put  in  a  hot  oven,  and  brown  well.  Serve  very 
hot. 

RICE  AND  CHEESE  NO.  2 

4  ounces  of  rice  lj4.  pints  milk 

6  ounces  cheese  Pepper  and  salt 

Wash  the  rice,  and  put  it  in  a  double  saucepan  with  the 
milk,  let  it  simmer  for  three  hours  until  all  the  milk  is  ab- 
sorbed, then  add  the  cheese,  cut  into  small  pieces,  let  it  cook 
for  another  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  turn  into  a  pie  dish, 
sprinkle  a  few  grated  rusk  crumbs  over,  and  serve  at  once. 


94  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

RICE  AND  CHEESE  NO.  3 

4  ounces  of  rice  3  ounces  of  cheese 

3  ounces  of  butter  ij^  pints  milk 

Wash  the  rice,  and  cook  with  the  milk  in  a  double  sauce- 
pan for  three  hours,  then  add  the  cut-up  cheese,  butter  and 
seasoning.  When  the  cheese  is  melted,  turn  the  mixture  out 
into  a  pie  dish,  and  serve  with  sippets  of  toast  arranged 
around  it. 

BAKED  RICE  AND  CHEESE  NO.  1 

I  cup  of  uncooked  rice  and  2  tablespoons  flour 

4  cups  milk  ;J^  pound  cheese 

or  Yi.  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  cooked  rice  and 
I  cup  of  milk 

If  uncooked  rice  is  used,  it  should  be  cooked  in  three  cups 
of  milk.  Make  a  sauce  with  one  cup  of  milk,  add  the  flour, 
cheese  and  salt.  Into  a  buttered  baking  dish  put  alternate 
layers  of  the  cooked  rice  and  the  sauce.  Cover  with  buttered 
crumbs,  and  bake  until  the  crumbs  are  brown. 

BAKED  RICE  AND  CHEESE  NO.  2 

%  pound  of  cheese  grated  or  cut     i  cup  of  rice 
into  small  pieces  Milk  as  needed 

Cook  the  rice;  put  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  alternate 
layers  of  rice  and  cheese;  pour  over  them  enough  milk  to 
come  halfway  to  the  top  of  the  rice;  cover  with  buttered 
crumbs  and  brown. 

RICE  HASH 

I  cup  of  bread  crumbs  i  large  onion  chopped 

I  tablespoon  of  butter  i  ounce  of  boiled  rice 

I  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley        i  cup  of  chopped  mushrooms 

Pepper  2  peeled  tomatoes  chopped 

Salt 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  951 

Mix  the  tomatoes,  the  bread  crumbs,  mushrooms,  and  rice. 
Fry  the  onion  in  the  butter  until  it  is  a  light  brown  and  soft. 
Then  add  the  bread  crumb  mixture  and  seasoning.  Mix  it 
thoroughly  and  simmer  for  one  hour. 

RICE  CONES 

Put  one  cup  of  rice  in  a  double  boiler  with  one  pint  of 
milk  and  cook  until  all  the  milk  is  absorbed  and  the  rice  be- 
comes a  stiff  paste.  Season  with  paprika,  salt,  a  few  drops 
of  onion  juice,  and  mold  into  cones.  Fry  in  deep  oil  or 
vegetable  fat  a  golden  brown  and  serve  with  a  teaspoon  of 
currant  jelly  on  the  top  of  each. 

RICE  FARCI 

I  cup  rice  i  cup  chopped  celery 

I  pint  of  tomatoes  chopjjed  Yz  cup  chopped  olives 

1  teaspoon  of  salt  1  tablespoon  minced  onion 

1  saltspoon  of  paprika  ^  cup  chopped  peppers 

Rub  the  tomato  through  a  sieve,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  for 
ten  minutes,  then  add  the  rice,  chopped  celery,  seasoning, 
and  the  other  ingredients,  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Then 
put  it  on  the  side  of  the  range  and  simmer  for  one  hour 
until  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  blended. 

MUSHROOM  AND  RICE  MOLD 

I  teacup  of  rice  J^  pint  white  sauce 

ij^  pounds  mushrooms  2  ounces  butter 

A  little  chopped  onion  Pepper,  salt 

3  gills  water 
Wash  a  teacup  of  rice,  and  boil  it  in  a  saucepan  with  the 
water  until  all  is  absorbed.  Chop  the  mushrooms  and  fry 
them  in  the  butter  with  the  onion  and  seasoning  for  five 
minutes,  then  cover  and  cook  until  tender.  Strain  the  mush- 
rooms and  mix  two-thirds  of  them  with  one-third  of  the 
white  sauce.     Butter  a  mold  and  put  in  a  layer  of  rice,  then 


96  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

mushrooms;  fill  the  mold  in  this  way,  having  the  rice  last. 
Press  the  mixture  in  well,  cover  with  buttered  paper  and 
steam  one  hour.  Mix  the  rest  of  the  mushrooms  with  the 
liquid  strained  from  them  and  the  rest  of  the  white  sauce. 
Serve  around  the  rice  turned  from  the  mold. 

SAVORY  RICE  PUDDING 

4  ounces  of  rice  2  ounces  grated  Parmesan 

J4  pint  tomato  sauce  2  ounces  breaded  crumbs 

Yi  ounce  butter 

Boil  the  rice  according  to,  recipe  for  rice  boiled  for 
curry.  When  it  is  cooked,  mix  well  with  the  tomato  sauce, 
made  according  to  recipe  for  tomato  sauce.  Now  put  it 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  sprinkle  over  it  the  grated 
Parmesan.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  break  the  butter 
into  bits,  and  strew  it  over  the  top.  Brown  in  a  quick  oven, 
and  serve  very  hot. 

SAVORY  RICE 

3j^'  ounces  of  rice  i  heaping  tablespoon  chopped 
I  pint  milk  parsley 

4  ounces  onion  2  ounces  bread  crumbs 

J4  ounce  butter  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Peel,  and  slice  the  onions,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water ; 
let  them  boil  up  quickly,  and  then  drain,  and  mince  them. 
Put  the  rice  into  a  double  pan;  boil  the  milk,  and  pour  it 
over  the  rice,  and  add  the  minced  onion.  Let  them  stew 
until  the  rice  has  absorbed  all  the  milk,  which  will  take  quite 
two  hours.  Remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the 
chopped  parsley.  Season  the  mixture  to  taste.  Butter  a 
baking  dish,  and  put  in  the  rice,  cover  with  the  bread  crumbs, 
and  break  up  the  butter  in  small  pieces,  and  place  it  over 
them.  Brown  as  quickly  as  possible  in  a  hot  oven  or  before 
the  fire. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  97 

RICE  AND  TOMATOES 

4  ounces  of  rice  'J4  pound  of  tomatoea 

I  pint  of  milk  i  ounce  of  butter 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Pick  over  the  rice,  and  simmer  in  the  milk  until  perfectly 
soft;  then  add  seasonings.  Peel  the  tomatoes,  and  cut  them 
up  taking  out  all  hard  parts,  and  bake  them  in  a  shallow 
dish  in  the  oven.  When  cooked,  beat  them  into  the  rice, 
add  the  butter,  and  serve  very  hot. 

RICE  AND  ONIONS 

Chop  six  onions  and  put  them  into  a  frying  pan  with  one 
tablespoon  of  butter,  when  tender  add  an  equal  quantity  of 
rice,  boiled  as  for  curry,  and  salt  and  paprika,  one  teaspoon 
of  kitchen  bouquet  and  one  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice.  Stir- 
lightly  together,  heat  thoroughly  and  serve  very  hot. 

RICE  WITH  PEAS 

1  cup  boiled  rice  J^  cup  liquid  from  peas 
j^  cup  canned  peas                          2  tablespoons  flour 

4  teaspoons  melted  butter 

Put  half  the  boiled  rice  in  bottom  of  baking  dish,  then  a 
layer  of  peas,  and  the  remainder  of  rice.  Rub  the  butter 
and  flour  together ;  heat  the  liquid,  and  pour  over  the  butter 
and  flour;  boil  five  minutes.  Then  pour  over  the  rice,  and 
bake  ten  minutes. 

RICE  RISSOLES 

3  ounces  of  rice  3  tablespoons  of  cream 

2  ounces  grated  horse-radish  j4.  a  pint  of  milk 
J4  teaspoon  mustard                         Juice  of  J4  lemon 

Pepper  and  salt 

Cook  the  rice  in  the  milk  for  forty-five  minutes,  and  add 
the  grated  hor«e-radish.  Mix  the  mustard  with  the  cream 
and  seasoning;  add  all  together,  and  mix  well,  and  form  into 


98  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

rissoles.     Roll  in  rusk  crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  oil  till  a 
golden  brown.     Serve  with  brown  gravy. 

RICE  FONDUE 

1  cup  boiled  rice  J^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  milk  i  teaspoon  some  commercial  sauce 
1  cup  of  grated  cheese  or  similar  flavoring 

Heat  the  rice  in  the  milk,  add  the  other  ingredients,  and 
cook  slowly  until  the  cheese  is  melted.  Serve  on  crackers 
or  toast. 

RICE  A  LA  MEXICAINE 

Put  four  tablespoons  of  Patna  rice  in  a  baking  dish  with 
one  pint  of  water  in  which  some  vegetable  has  been  cooked, 
as  beans,  onions,  etc.  Chop  a  small  tomato,  an  onion  and 
a  pepper  very  fine  and  add  them  to  the  rice  with  salt  and 
paprika  to  taste  and  a  teaspoon  of  curry  powder.  Cover 
with  a  plate  or  a  lid  and  cook  in  a  slow  oven  for  two  hours 
until  the  rice  has  absorbed  all  the  moisture  and  all  the  grains 
are  separate. 

SAVORY  RICE  CUTLETS 

S}4  ounces  of  rice  j4  pound  of  bread  crumbs 

I  pint  of  milk  Salad  oil 

4  ounces  of  onion  Pepper  and  salt 

I  heaping  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

Peel,  and  slice  the  onions,  throw  them  into  cold  water, 
let  them  boil  up  quickly;  then  drain,  and  mince  them.  Put 
the  rice  into  a  double  pan,  boil  the  milk,  pour  It  over  the 
rice,  and  add  the  minced  onion.  Let  it  cook  until  the  rice 
has  absorbed  all  the  milk,  which  will  take  quite  two  hours. 
Turn  the  mixture  into  a  bowl,  and  let  it  get  nearly  cold. 
Now  stir  the  chopped  parsley  into  the  cooled  rice,  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Take  a  tablespoon  of  the  mixture, 
and  cover  it  with  bread  crumbs.  Shape  into  cutlets  an  inch 
thick,  and  put  them  into  the  frying  basket.     Fry  in  boiling 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  99 

oil  a  rich  brown,  and  garnish  with  parsley.  The  cutlets 
are  rather  difficult  to  form,  and  a  little  patience  is  necessary 
to  make  them  a  success;  but  they  quite  repay  one  for  the 
trouble  when  they  are  finished. 

SAVORY  RICE  RISSOLES 

4  ounces  of  rice  4  large  sage  leaves 

I  ounqe  of  butter  |J^  pint  milk 

I  small  onion  A  little  pepper  and  salt 

Wash  the  rice  carefully,  and  cook  for  half  an  hour  in  the 
milk ;  then  add  the  butter,  and  very  finely  chopped  sage  and 
onion,  and  pepper.  Boil  for  a  few  minutes  longer,  and 
when  cool  form  into  shape,  roll  in  fine  rusk  crumbs,  and  fry 
a  light  brown  in  boiling  oil.  Serve  round  a  mold  of  mashed 
potatoes. 

RICE  TIMBALES 

1  pint  of  milk         ^  3  mashed  potatoes 

3  ounces  of  ground  rice  4  drops  of  onion  juice 

2  ounces  of  butter  Pepper  and  salt 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  add  the  rice  which 
has  been  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  cold  milk;  cook  for  fif- 
teen minutes,  then  add  the  mashed  potato,  butter,  onion  juice 
and  seasoning.  Cook  until  the  mixture  is  thick;  pour  into 
buttered  egg  cups,  press  down,  leave  for  five  minutes  and 
turn  out.  Mark  the  top  with  a  cutter  and  fry  in  deep  oil 
or  vegetable  fat  a  golden  brown.  Remove  the  round  from 
the  top,  scoop  out  a  little  of  the  rice  and  fill  the  depression 
with  a  curry  mixture  or  currant  jelly. 

BOILED  MACARONI 

Break  macaroni  in  to  one-inch  pieces,  put  into  a  strainer, 
and  rinse  well  with  cold  water.  Cook  in  boiling  salted 
water  ttpenty-five  minutes  or  until  soft.  Strain  as  soon  as 
cooked  or  it  will  become  pasty.  Pour  over  it  hot  cream 
which  has  been  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt. 


100  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

BAKED  MACARONI 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  and  fill  it  with  boiled  macaroni  and 
a  white  sauce.  Cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs,  and  bake 
until  the  crumbs  are  brown.  The  sauce  should  be  well  sea- 
soned and  the  macaroni  boiled  in  salted  water. 

MACARONI  CUTLETS  ^ 

Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender,  drain, 
chop  fine  and  mix  with  half  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  a 
few  drops  of  onion  juice,  one  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  half  a  cup  of  strained  tomato  juice.  Mix 
thoroughly,  shape  into  cutlets,  cover  with  flour  and  fry  in  oil 
or  butter  until  a  golden  brown. 

Sei've  with  a  sauce  made  as  follows: 

Melt  one  ounce  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  stir  in  one 
tablespoon  of  flour,  cook  for  five  minutes  stirring  constantly; 
do  not  let  it  color.  Add  very  slowly  a  cup  of  milk  and 
cook  until  it  is  the  proper  consistency.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley.  ^ 

MACARONI  TURNOVERS 

2  ounces  macaroni  i  tablespoon  grated  cheese 

i  tablespoon  of  butter  i  saltspoon  mustard 

I  gill  of  milk  Salt,  pepper,  cayenne 

Break  the  macaroni  into  very  small  pieces  and  cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Strain,  add  the  butter, 
milk,  cheese  and  seasoning.  Mix  well.  Make  a  short  pie 
crust,  roll  it  out  thin  and  cut  into  squares.  Put  a  spoonful 
of  the  mixture  in  the  center  of  each  square,  fold  over  the 
edges  and  bake  a  golden  brown.  The  mixture  in  the  tart 
should  be  creamy.  If  too  much  of  the  milk  is  absorbed  by 
the  macaroni  increase  the  quantity.  As  the  cheese  becomes 
thoroughly  melted  in  cooking  more  moisture  is  added. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  loi 

CREAMED  MACARONI 

4  ounces  of  pipe  macaroni  3  cloves 

Yi  ounce  butter  3  ounces  grated  cheese 

1  onion  I  gill  cream 
Blade  of  mace  J^  pint  milk 

Seasoning 

Break  the  macaroni  into  small  pieces,  scald  the  onion, 
and  stick  cloves  into  it.  Put  the  milk  into  a  saucepan,  add 
the  macaroni  and  onion  and  mace,  and  cook  for  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour;  then  take  out  the  onion,  cloves  and  mace, 
and  add  the  cheese,  butter  and  cream;  let  this  simmer  for 
five  minutes,  then  put  into  a  pie  dish,  sprinkle  with  rusk 
crumbs,  and  send  to  table  very  hot. 

CURRIED  MACARONI 

4  ounces  macaroni  I  large  onion 

2  ounces  of  butter  2  tablespoons  curry  powder 

3  ounces  cooked  rice  j^,  pint  water 

\  Break  the  macaroni  into  tVo-inch  lengths,  throw  into  boil- 
ing water,  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  then  drain ;  slice  the 
onion,  and  fry  a  golden  brown  in  the  butter,  add  the  curry 
powder,  also  the  water,  and  let  them  cook  for  fifteen  minutes 
in  the  frying  pan,  then  pass  all  through  a  sieve,  and  add  to 
the  macaroni,  and  let  it  cook  for  half  an  hour.  Cook  the 
rice,  and  with  this  make  a  border  around  the  dish,  and  put 
the  curried  macaroni  inside,  and  serve  very  hot. 

ITALIAN  MACARONI  NO.  1 

3  ounces  pipe  macaroni  2  ounces  butter 

I  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  i  teaspoon  grated  onion 

3  ounces  grated  cheese  J4  pi^^t  white  sauce 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Throw  the  macaroni  into  boiling  water  for  twenty  min- 
utes, drain,  and  cut  up  into  two-inch  lengths;  mix  the  pars- 
ley, butter,  onion,  and  grated  cheese  with  the  sauce,  then 


102  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

add  the  macaroni,  put  the  mixture  in  a  dish,  and  cover  with 
bread  crumbs,  and  put  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour.  Serve 
with  this  some  very  thinly  sliced  Spanish  onion,  with  a  small 
cucumber  cut  up  with  it;  cover  with  three  tablespoons  of  oil, 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and 
salt. 

ITALIAN  MACARONI  NO.  2 

Break  up  the  macaroni  and  cook  in  boiling  water  with  a 
little  salt  until  tender,  then  strain.  Melt  the  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  mix  one  scant  tablespoon  of  flour  with  it,  add  one 
cup  of  milk  gradually  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Add  three 
tablespoons  of  grated  cheese.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
then  put  the  macaroni  into  it,  and  cook  together  for  a  few 
minutes.  Serve  very  hot.  If  the  sauce  is  too  thick  add 
more  milk. 

NEAPOLITAN  MACARONI 

Yt.  pound  Zita  macaroni,  large        i  pound  tomatoes 

pipes  I  ounce  butter 

4  ounces  flour  i  Parmesan  cheese 

I  teacup  of  milk  i  pint  of  salad  oil 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Break  the  macaroni  into  one-inch  lengths,  and  throw  it 
into  plenty  of  boiling  water.  Scald  the  onion,  and  stick  a 
few  cloves  into  it,  add  to  the  macaroni,  and  boil  quickly 
until  the  macaroni  is  cooked  but  not  broken.  Pour  off  the 
water,  and  drain  well.  Have  ready  a  batter  made  of  milk 
and  flour,  made  by  putting  the  flour  into  a  basin  and  adding 
the  milk  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time,  till  half  of  it  is  used; 
then  beat  the  batter  well  till  bubbles  form  on  top.  Add  the 
rest  of  the  milk,  and  let  it  stand  tiU  the  macaroni  is  cooked ; 
this  makes  the  batter  lighter.  Cut  the  tomatoes  in  halves, 
and  put  them  on  a  buttered  baking  tin  in  a  moderate  oven, 
with  the  rest  of  the  ounce  of  butter  in  small  bits  on  the  top  of 
them.     Bake  till  just  tender,  but  not  broken.     Make  the 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  103 

salad  oil  very  hot  in  the  saucepan.  When  the  macaroni 
is  drained  from  the  water,  throw  four  or  five  bits  of  it  into 
the  hot  oil.  If  it  browns  quickly,  put  in  the  other  bits,  and 
fry  a  light  brown.  Lift  out  of  the  oil,  drain  on  white  paper, 
reheat  the  oil,  and  continue  to  dip  in  batter,  and  fry  in  oil 
all  the  rest  of  the  macaroni.  Put  the  tomatoes  in  a  ring, 
round  a  deep  fire-proof  dish.  Heap  the  fried  macaroni  In 
the  center.  Put  a  border  of  the  grated  cheese  round  the 
outside  edge  of  the  ring  of  tomatoes.  Make  very  hot  in  the 
oven.     Serve  at  once  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 

MACARONI  CAKES  OR  RISSOLES 

3  ounces  pipe  macaroni  I  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 
2  ounces  grated  cheese                      J^  pint  milk 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 
Break  the  macaroni  into  very  small  pieces,  and  throw  it 
into  the  boiling  milk,  and  let  it  boil  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  or  until  it  is  tender;  add  the  grated  cheese,  chopped 
parsley  and  pepper,  and  allow  it  to  simmer  ten  minutes 
longer.  Add^flour  to  bind,  mix  well,  and  turn  into  a  flat 
or  shallow  dish.  When  cold  form  into  cakes,  any  shape 
desired,  and  sprinkle  over  the  bread  crumbs,  frying  in  boil- 
ing oil. 

MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE 

4  ounces  of  macaroni  J^  pint  milk 

4  ounces  grated  cheese  i  ounce  butter 

Pepper,  salt 

Break  the  macaroni  into  two-inch  lengths,  and  throw  it 
into  plenty  of  fast  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  quickly  for 
half  an  hour.  Now  drain  it,  and  add  the  milk  to  it,  and  a 
little  pepper,  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point  quickly,  and  then 
let  it  simmer  gently  for  another  half  hour.  The  macaroni 
should  be  perfectly  tender,  but  unbroken,  and  the  cheese  and 
butter  may  now  be  added,  stirring  the  contents  of  the  sauce- 


104  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

pan  constandy  —  one  way  —  until  the  whole  of  the  cheese  is 
melted  and  tlioroughly  mixed  with  the  macaroni.  Turn  it 
out  on  a  dish,  and  serve  hot  as  possible.  Another  way  of 
serving  the  macaroni  makes  a  prettier  dish:  Instead  of 
adding  the  cheese  and  butter  to  the  macaroni  In  the  sauce- 
pan, a  layer  of  the  macaroni  may  be  put  on  the  bottom  of 
a  well-buttered  French  baking  dish,  and  part  of  the  cheese 
scattered  over  it;  then  the  rest  of  tiie  macaroni  must  be  put 
over  the  cheese,  and  the  remainder  of  the  cheese  used  as 
before.  The  top  should  be  covered  with  fine  bread  crumbs, 
and  the  butter  taken  and  broken  up  in  bits,  and  placed  over 
the  top.  This  dish  should  now  be  placed  in  a  hot  oven,  and 
quickly  browned. 

It  is  necessary  to  stir  the  macaroni  occasionally  when  boil- 
ing quickly  in  the  water,  and  after  the  milk  has  been  added, 
it  must  be  stirred  frequently,  or  it  will  stick  to  the  pan  and 
spoil. 

MACARONI  AND  CHEESE  PUDDING 

4  ounces  macaroni  i  pound  Spanish  onions 

3  ounces  grated  cheese  i  ounce  white  bread  cnunbs 

4  sage  leaves  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Break  the  macaroni  into  three  and  a  half  inch  lengths, 
and  put  into  boiling  water,  boiling  for  half  an  hour;  then 
drain,  and  when  cool,  line  a  well-buttered  pudding  basin 
with  the  macaroni,  and  fill  in  with  the  following  mixture: 
Scald  the  onion,  and  chop  very  finely  with  the  sage  leaves, 
add  the  cheese  and  bread  crumbs,  and  mix  well.  Fill  the 
basin  with  this,  and  cover  with  macaroni,  then  a  cloth,  and 
steam  for  three  hours.  Rice  may  take  the  place  of  macaroni 
for  a  change. 

If  rice  is  used  cook  as  for  plain  boiled  rice  in  salted  water 
and  put  In  the  baking  dish  In  the  same  way  as  the  maca- 
roni. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  105 

MACARONI  SAVORY 

4  ounces  macaroni  J^  pound  tomatoes 

4  ounces  Parmesan  cheese  2  ounces  butter 

Y2  pint  of  milk  3  ounces  bread  crumbs 

y^  pound  onions  Pepper  and  salt 

Break  the  macaroni  into  two-Inch  lengths,  and  throw  It 
into  plenty  of  fast-bolling  water,  and  let  It  boll  quickly,  stir- 
ring occasionally,  for  half  an  hour,  and  then  drain  the  water 
from  It.  Now  add  the  milk  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  It 
boil  up  quickly,  and  then  simmer  for  another  half  hour,  when 
the  macaroni  should  be  quite  tender.  Stir  frequently  to 
prevent  It  sticking  to  the  pan. 

The  onions  in  the  meantime  should  have  been  peeled, 
sliced  and  boiled  until  tender  In  plenty  of  water.  They 
must  then  be  drained  and  slightly  chopped.  The  tomatoes 
also  must  be  thrown  Into  boiling  water  for  a  few  seconds, 
and  when  removed  the  skins  will  come  off  quite  easily;  they 
must  now  be  sliced. 

Butter  a  good-sized  French  baking  dish,  and  scatter  In 
some  bread  crumbs;  shake  out  all  that  do  not  stick  to  the 
butter.  Place  a  layer  of  macaroni  at  the  bottom  of  the 
dish,  and  scatter  over  it  a  third  part  of  the  Parmesan.  Over 
that  place  the  chopped  onions  and  then  the  sliced  tomatoes, 
and  then  the  remainder  of  the  macaroni.  Cover  this  with 
half  the  remaining  Parmesan,  and  over  that  scatter  the  rest 
of  the  bread  crumbs.  Now  scatter  the  last  of  the  Parme- 
san, and  over  that  the  butter,  broken  up  Into  small  pieces, 
and  place  over  top.  Bake  for  about  twenty  minutes  In  a  hot 
oven ;  it  should  be  a  rich  brown  all  over.  This  is  an  excel- 
lent dish,  and  well  repays  the  cook's  trouble.  If  attention  Is 
paid  to  all  the  details.  If  Genoa  macaroni  is  used  it  re- 
quires a  longer  time  to  prepare  than  Naples.  Twenty  min- 
utes in  the  water  Is  long  enough  for  Naples.  Macaroni 
should  always  be  served  hot  as  it  becomes  pasty  when  cold. 


io6  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

MACARONI  SCALLOPS  NO.  i 

2  ounces  pipe  macaroni  2  tablespoons  tomato  sauce 

4  ounces  Parmesan  cheese  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

2  ounces  butter  6  scallop  shells 

Cook  the  macaroni  in  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  water  for 
half  an  hour.  Drain,  and  cut  up  into  small  pieces,  and  add 
one  ounce  of  the  butter,  with  the  pepper  and  salt  and  all  the 
cheese.  Mix  it  well;  grease  the  shells,  and  put  a  little  of 
the  tomato  sauce  in  each,  and  then  fill  up  with  the  macaroni ; 
sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  pieces  of  butter,  and  put  them 
in  the  oven  to  brown  for  twenty  minutes. 

MACARONI  SCALLOPS  NO.  2 

4  ounces  pipe  macaroni  4  ounces  cooked  chestnuts 

2  tablespoons  cream  A  liitle  butter 

I  small  Spanish  onion  2  ounces  grated  cheese 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 
Throw  the  macaroni  into  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour; 
then  drain  and  chop  up  very  fine  with  the  onion,  which  has 
been  scalded  first.  Cook  the  chestnuts,  and  pass  through  a 
sieve.  Mix  all  together  with  the  cream ;  butter  some  scallop 
shells,  and  fill  them  with  the  mixture.  Sprinkle  over  them  a 
layer  of  grated  cheese,  and  then  one  of  bread  crumbs  on  top. 
Cut  up  the  butter  in  small  pieces,  and  put  them  on  the  bread 
crumbs;  brown  in  the  oven  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

MACARONI  AND  TOMATOES 

4  ounces  pipe  macaroni  2  ounces  of  butter 

Yz  pound  of  tomatoes  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Boil  the  macaroni  for  half  an  hour  in  boiling  water,  and 
then  drain.  Butter  a  pie  dish,  and  put  a  thick  layer  of 
macaroni  at  the  bottom;  skin  the  tomatoes  by  putting  them 
into  a  basin  and  pouring  boiling  water  over  them,  cover 
them  with  a  plate  for  five  minutes,  and  the  skins  will  come 
off  quite  easily.     Then  cut  them  into  slices  and  put  a  layer 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  107 

on  the  macaroni,  then  some  pieces  of  butter  and  a  sprinkling 
of  pepper  and  salt,  then  another  layer  of  macaroni,  and  so 
on  till  the  dish  is  full,  leaving  tomato  on  top,  with  a  few  rusk 
crumbs  sprinkled  over;  put  in  the  oven  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.     Serve  with  grated  cheese. 

MACARONI  AND  TOMATO  SAUCE  NO.  i 

4  ounces  macaroni  Pepper  and  salt 

Yi  pint  of  milk  ^  pint  tomato  sauce 

Follow  the  directions  given  in  recipe  for  "  Macaroni  with 
Cheese,"  as  to  the  boiling  of  the  macaroni  in  water  and  stew- 
ing it  in  milk.  Let  it  absorb  all  the  milk.  Pile  it  on  a 
dish,  and  pour  over  it  a  half  pint  of  tomato  sauce,  prepared 
according  to  directions  given  for  "  Tomato  Sauce." 

MACARONI  AND  TOMATO  SAUCE  NO.  2 

8  ounces  macaroni  i  Spanish  onion 

2  oimces  butter  i  lb.  of  tomatoes 

Yi  pint  milk  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Break  the  macaroni  into  pieces,  and  throw  it  into  boiling 
water,  and  boil  for  an  hour.  Make  a  sauce  by  putting  the 
milk,  butter  and  the  onion,  scalded  and  grated,  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  the  pepper  and  salt.  Scald  the  tomatoes,  skin 
them,  and  rub  them  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  add  to  the 
sauce.  Add  all  to  the  macaroni,  and  well  mix.  Serve  very 
hot,  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  separately. 

MACARONI  AND  TOMATO  SAUCE  NO.  3 

J4  pound  macaroni  i  ounce  butter 

I  onion  2j^,  ounces  grated  Gruyere  cheese 

2j^  ounces  grated  Tarmesan  Suspicion  of  nutmeg 

J^  teaspoon  pepper  Salt  to  taste 

6  tablespoons  cream 

Boil  one-half  pound  macaroni  in  water  wltl^  a  lump  of 
butter,  an  onion,  two  cloves  and  salt;  when  done,  drain  the 


io8  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

macaroni,  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  two  and  one-half 
ounces  of  grated  Gruyere  cheese  and  two  and  one-half 
ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  a  little  grated  nutmeg, 
some  coarse  black  pepper  and  six  tablespoons  of  cream; 
toss  and  stir  well  until  the  cheese  becomes  thick  and  stringy. 
Serve  with  tomato  sauce  in  the  middle  of  the  dish. 

MACARONI  AND  TOMATO  PUDDING 

Boil  some  macaroni,  and  mix  with  it  three  ounces  of 
grated  cheese,  four  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes  and  half  a 
teacup  of  milk.  Place  in  a  pie  dish,  and  cover  with  a  thick 
layer  of  fine  bread  crumbs  and  a  few  knobs  of  butter;  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt;  bake  until  nicely  browned.  A 
grated  onion  is  considered  an  improvement  by  some  people 
if  it  is  added. 

ITALIAN  MACARONI  AND  CHEESE 

1  cup   of   macaroni   broken   into     2  cloves 

small  pieces  ij4  cups  tomato  sauce 

2  quarts  boiling  salted  water  ,  ^  cup  or  more  of  grated  cheese 
J^,  onion 

Cook  the  macaroni  in  the  boiling  salted  water  with  the 
onion  and  cloves.  Drain,  remove  the  onion  and  cloves,  re- 
heat in  tomato  sauce,  and  serve  with  grated  cheese. 

CHEESE  AND  MACARONI  LOAF 

yQ,    cup    macaroni    broken    into     i  teaspoon  each  of  chopped  onion 

small  pieces  and  parsley 

I  cup  of  milk  I  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  soft  bread  crumbs  ^  cup  grated  cheese 

1  tablespoon  butter  i  tablespoon  chopped  green  pep- 

per 

Cook  the  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender, 
and  rinse  in  cold  water.  Cook  the  parsley,  onion  and  pep- 
per in  a  little  water  with  the  butter.     Pour  off  the  water  or 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  109 

allow  it  to  boil  away,  and  mix  all  the  ingredients.  Line  a 
quart  baking  dish  with  buttered  paper;  turn  the  mixture  into 
it;  set  the  baking  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  one-half  to  three-fourths  of  an  hour. 
Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

MACARONI  CHEESE  STRAWS 
4  ounces  macaroni  Seasoning         2  ounces  grated  cheese 

Cook  the  macaroni  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  boiling 
water.  Strain,  and  let  it  get  cool.  Cut  up  into  even  lengths 
of  four  inches,  twist  them  or  tie  them  together,  and  dip  into 
the  grated  cheese  and  bread  crumbs;  or,  mix  the  cheese, 
bread  crumbs  and  seasoning  together,  and  dip  into  this. 
Fry  a  light  brown  in  boiling  oil,  drain  well,  and  sprinkle 
with  a  little  grated  cheese.  Lettuce  or  water  cress  is  nice 
with  this  dish. 

MACARONI  AU  GRATIN 

lj4   cups  macaroni  broken  into  i  cup  bread  crumbs 

one-inch  lengths  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  grated  Neufchatel  cheese  3  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  milk  I  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender ;  drain, 
and  pbur  pver  it  a  dash  of  water.  Make  a  white  sauce  of 
the  last  four  ingredients  and  mix  with  the  macaroni.  ,  Stir 
the  grated  cheese  into  the  mixture.  Turn  into  a  baking  dish, 
cover  with  the  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  nicely  browned.  If  desired,  buttered  crumbs  may  be 
used. 

MACARONI  AND  KIDNEY  BEANS 

I  cup  macaroni  Yz  pint  cream  tomato  sauce 

I  teaspoon  salt  I  can  or  i   pint  cooked  kidney 

I  quart  water  beans 

Break  the  macaroni  into  one-inch  pieces.  Cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  the  macaroni  is  soft  enough  to  crush  be- 


no  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

tween  the  fingers,  which  will  require  from  twenty  minutes 
to  one  hour.  When  the  macaroni  is  soft,  drain  and  pour  a 
cup  of  cold  water  through  it.  Prepare  a  cream  tomato 
sauce  as  follows : 

2  tablespoons  flour  ^  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  strained  tomato 

Heat  the  milk  to  scalding,  rub  the  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether, and  pour  slowly  into  it  the  hot  milk.  Set  over  the 
flame  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  strained  tomato, 
and  turn  into  this  sauce  the  thoroughly  dried  macaroni  and 
the  can  of  cooked  kidney  beans.  If  desired,  more  salt  may 
be  added.  When  these  ingredients  are  thoroughly  heated, 
drain  into  a  vegetable  dish,  and  serve.  This  dish  should  be 
stirred  carefully,  as  the  beans  mash  easily. 

MACARONI  WITH  GREEN  PEAS 

J^.  cup  cream  Yi  cup  macaroni  broken  into  one- 

Y2.  teaspoon  salt  inch  lengths 

I  cup  green  peas 

Cook  the  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain,  and 
pour  over  it  a  dash  of  cold  water.  Drain  again  and  add  to 
it  the  cream,  salt  and  green  peas,  freshly  cooked  or  canned, 
from  which  the  liquid  has  been  drained.  Heat,  and  cook 
for  five  to  ten  minutes  over  the  flame. 

MACARONI  PUDDING 

6  ounces  macaroni  i  pint  of  milk 

I  ounce  of  butter  A  little  grated  nutmeg 

Break  the  macaroni  into  small  pieces,  and  throw  into  boil- 
ing water,  and  keep  it  boiling  for  half  an  hour,  drain  it  well, 
and  return  to  the  saucepan,  add  the  milk,  butter  and  nutmeg, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  fifteen  minutes.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  pie  dish,  and  bake  until  firm  —  about  half  an  hour. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  iii 

MACARONI  CURRY 

Boil  the  macaroni  until  it  is  tender,  and  pour  the  follow- 
ing sauce  over  it:  Chop  four  onions  and  cook  until  tender 
in  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  one-half  cup  of  chopped  ap- 
ples, and  cook  until  these  are  well  mixed;  then  add  a  table- 
spoon of  curry  powder,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  mustard,  a 
teaspoon  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  salt  and  pap- 
rika, one  tablespoon  of  olive  oil  and  a  pint  of  milk  and  water 
mixed.     Boil  until  it  is  thick,  and  strain. 

CURRIED  VEGETABLES  AND  MACARONI 

%  pound  carrots  i  onion 

I  large  apple  3  potatoes 

1  tablespoon  flour  3  turnips 

3  teaspoons  curry  powder  4  oiuices  macaroni 

2  ounces  butter  i  pint  boiling  water 
I  teaspoon  chutney  J^  pound  mushrooms 
I  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Cut  the  mushrooms,  the  vegetables,  and  the  apple  into 
small  pieces,  and  fry  in  two  ounces  of  butter.  Mix  the  flour, 
chutney  and  curry  powder  together  and  sprinkle  over  the 
vegetables;  add  the  lemon  juice  and  stir  over  the  fire  for  a 
few  seconds,  then  add  the  boiling  water  and  the  macaroni 
which  has  been  broken  and  boiled  in  salted  water  until  ten- 
der. Mix  well  together  and  cook  in  a  double  saucepan  for 
two  hours.     Serve  with  boiled  rice. 

SPAGHETTI  CROQUETTES 

%  pound  spaghetti  %.  pound  grated  cheese 

3  ounces  of  bread  crumbs  ^  teaspoon  curry  powder 
I  teaspoon  of  salt  and  pepper         i  tablespoon  of  butter 

I  pint  of  boiling  water  i  teaspoon  of  onion  juice 

Break  and  cook  the  spaghetti  in  quickly  boiling  water,  stir 
till  thick,  add  the  cheese,  butter  and  curry  and  oook  three 
or  four  minutes;  add  the  seasoning.     Pour  on  a  flat  dish  to 


112  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

cool,  mold  into  croquettes,  crumb  them,  and  fry  in  deep  oil 
or  butter  till  a  golden  brown.     Serve  hot. 

CHESTNUT  PATTIES 

ij^  pounds  of  chestnuts  %  teaspoons  of  mixed  herbs 

2  tablespoons  of  cream  8  or  lo  pate  cases 

J4  pint  of  milk 

Throw  the  chestnuts  into  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour, 
remove  both  outer  and  inner  skins,  and  pass  through  a  fine 
sieve,  then  add  the  cream,  milk,  herbs  and  pepper,  and  mix 
well  together;  if  too  stiff,  a  little  more  milk  and  cream  can 
be  added.  Fill  the  cases  and  put  them  in  the  oven  for  fif- 
teen minutes.     Serve,  garnished  with  parsley. 

CHESTNUT  PIE  NO.  i 

1  pound  of  chestnuts  2  tablespoons  sauce 

2  ounces  butter  i  tablespoon  rusk  crumbs 

3  ounces  macaroni  I  tablespoon  flour 

Throw  the  chestnuts  into  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour; 
take  them  out  a  few  at  a  time,  and  skin  them;  pass  them 
through  a  nut  mill  or  sieve.  Cook  the  macaroni  in  one  pint 
of  milk,  drain,  and  cut  up  into  small  pieces.  Make  a  sauce 
of  the  milk  it  was  boiled  in  with  the  flour  and  butter. 
Grease  a  pie  dish,  and  put  a  layer  of  macaroni  at  the  bottom, 
then  a  layer  of  the  sauce,  then  put  the  chestnuts.  Add  the 
rest  of  the  sauce,  and  put  a  thin  layer  of  macaroni  and 
rusk  crumbs  on  the  top.  Put  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour 
to  brown. 

CHESTNUT  PIE  NO.  2 

I  quart  of  shelled  chestnuts  ij4  pints  white  sauce 

J^  pint  can  mushrooms  Biscuit  crust 

To  shell  the  chestnuts,  place  them  in  boiling  water,  and 
boil  ten  minutes.  While  hot,  remove  the  shell  and  inner 
skin  with  a  sharp  paring  knife.     Drain  the  liquid  from  the 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  113 

mushrooms,  and  cut  the  latter  in  small  pieces.  Heat  mush- 
rooms in  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  double  boiler;  arrange 
the  chestnuts  and  mushrooms  in  layers  in  a  baking  dish, 
and  pour  over  them  the  white  sauce.  Roll  biscuit  dough 
about  one-quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cover  the  chestnuts. 
Make  several  openings  in  the  top  of  the  crust.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven  until  nicely  browned. 

CREAMED  CHESTNUTS 

1  quart  Italian  chestnuts  i  cup  white  sauce 

Plunge  the  chestnuts  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  for 
ten  minutes.  With  a  sharp  paring  knife  remove  both  the 
outer  and  the  inner  skin.  Prepare  one  cup  of  white  sauce, 
and  add  the  cooked  chestnuts,  also  one-half  teaspoon  salt. 
Cook  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

CHESTNUTS  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Prepare  the  chestnuts  as  for  Creamed  Chestnuts,  and  serve 
with  tomato  sauce  instead  of  white  sauce. 

NUT  AND  POTATO  PATTIES 

5  ounces  of  potatoes  i  ounce  butter 

2  ounces  pine  kernels  I  tablespoon  cream 
2  ounces  of  almonds  or  walnuts     A  little  parsley 

Pepper  and  salt 
Cook,  and  mash  the  potatoes  with  the  butter  and  cream, 
and  cut  into  rounds  about  two  inches  thick,  with  a  tumbler; 
cover  with  moist  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  oil  until 
the  outside  is  quite  crisp.  Take  them  out,  and  drain  them, 
and  make  a  hole  in  the  center.  Remove  all  the  soft  potato 
inside,  or  as  much  as  possible  without  breaking  the  case. 
Grind  the  nuts  together  through  a  nut  mill,  and  fill  up  the 
potato  case  with  this.  Or,  if  preferred,  a  filling  of  grated 
cheese  is  very  nice,  with  a  little  chopped  parsley  on  top. 
The  above  quantity  will  make  six  patties. 


114  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

CHESTNUTS  FRICASSEED 

1  dozen  chestnuts  J^  pint  savory  white  sauce 

J^  pint  milk  and  water 

Make  a  sauce  according  to  recipe  given  for  white  sauce. 
Bake  the  chestnuts  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes,  or  less  if 
they  are  young.  The  peel  and  inner  skin  can  then  be  easily 
removed.  Drop  them  into  milk  and  water  —  equal  parts 
of  each  —  and  stew  them  gently  with  a  little  salt  for  half 
an  hour,  keeping  the  saucepan  covered.  Now  drain,  and 
put  them  on  a  dish,  pouring  the  sauce  over  them.  It  will 
be  best  to  try  the  chestnuts  when  they  have  been  in  the  oven 
a  little  more  than  five  minutes,  as  they  should  be  removed 
as  soon  as  die  skin  will  come  away  easily.  More  chestnuts 
should  be  baked  than  are  really  wanted,  as  there  are  often 
bad  ones  among  them. 

BRAZIL  NUT  CUTLETS 

4  ounces  of  bread  crumbs  J^.  pint  white  sauce 

3  ounces  skinned  and  grated  2  teaspoons  mixed  herbs  —  pars- 

Brazil  nuts  ley,  thyme  and  mace 

After  preparing  the  bread  crumbs  and  nuts,  run  them  both 
through  a  nut  mill,  and  then  add  the  herbs.  To  make  the 
sauce  for  binding,  put  a  teaspoon  of  butter  into  a  small 
enamel  saucepan,  to  which  add  gradually  half  a  teaspoon  of 
flour;  when  this  boils,  add  about  a  teacup  of  milk.  When 
boiled  and  thickened  a  little,  add  to  the  nuts  and  bread 
crumbs,  and  also  a  little  lemon  juice  if  liked.  Allow  it  to 
cool,  and  then  form  into  ten  cutlets,  and  fry  in  boiling  oil. 
Serve  with  bread  sauce. 

CHESTNUTS  WITH  BREAD  SAUCE 

I  dozen  chestnuts  J4  pint  bread  sauce 

y^  pint  milk  and  water 

Make  the  sauce  according  to  recipe  given  for  bread  sauce. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  115 

Prepare  the  chestnuts  as  for  chestnut  puree,  and  smother 
with  bread  sauce. 

CHESTNUT  PUR^E 

I  dozen  chestnuts  i  onion  size  of  a,  walnut 

^2  pint  milk  I  ounce  butter 

Pepper  and  salt 
Bake  the  chestnuts  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  ten  minutes, 
when  the  inner  skin  will  come  off  easily.  Put  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  the  milk  and  onions.  Bring  them  quickly 
to  boiling  point,  and  then  let  stew  gently  for  half  an  hour. 
Keep  the  saucepan  covered  while  they  are  stewing.  Now 
remove  them  from  the  milk,  leaving  the  onion,  and  rub  them 
through  a  sieve.  Work  half  a  teaspoon  of  corn  flour  into 
the  butter;  then  stir  three  tablespoons  of  the  milk,  in  which 
the  chestnuts  were  stewed,  into  the  chestnuts,  and  add  the 
butter  and  corn  flour  and  the  seasonings.  Stir  ov€r  the 
fire  until  the  butter  is  melted,  and  serve  very  hot. 

CHESTNUT  WHIP 

Remove  the  shells  of  a  pint  of  chestnuts  and  boil  ten 
minutes,  then  drain  and  the  skins  will  come  off  easily.  Put 
them  in  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  half  an  hour,  then 
drain,  mash,  and  rub  them  through  a  colander.  Season  with 
a  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  half  a 
cup  of  cream,  and  beat  thoroughly. 

SCALLOPED  CHESTNUTS 

I  dozen  chestnuts  i  ounce  of  butter 

J^  pint  milk  Pepper  and  salt 

I  onion  the  size  of  a  walnut  Bread  crumbs 

Prepare  the  chestnuts  exactly  as  in  the  preceding  recipe 
until  they  are  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  Then  add  three 
tablespoons  of  the  milk  in  which  the  chestnuts  were  stewed, 
and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.     Now  put  the  mixture  in  but- 


ii6  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

tered  scallop  shells,  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs.  Break 
up  the  butter  in  small  bits,  and  place  it  over  the  scallops; 
then  put  in  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 

CURRIED  VEGETABLES  NO.  i 

Yi  pound  carrots  %  pound  onions 

Yz  pound  turnips  J^  pound  brown  gravy 

Y2  pound  celery  i  ounce  butter 

Curry  powder 

Cut  the  vegetables  into  small  pieces,  and  throw  them  into 
a  saucepan  with  cold  water.  Let  them  boil,  then  drain  at 
once,  and  dry  them  on  a  cloth.  Now  put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  the  butter,  and  fry  them,  taking  care  that  they  do  not 
burn  or  get  very  brown.  Have  the  gravy  hot,  add  it  to  the 
vegetables  and  let  them  stew  very  slowly  until  they  are  quite 
tender,  which  will  be  in  about  half  an  hour.  Now  add 
curry  powder  to  taste,  and  let  the  curry  stand  for  another 
five  minutes  on  the  stove,  then  serve  with  plenty  of  boiled 
rice. 

CURRIED  VEGETABLES  NO.  2 

I  small  cauliflower  2  potatoes 

Y\  pound  of  carrots  Ij4  pounds  onions 

4  ounces  butter  i  tablespoon  of  curry  powder 

Ya  pound  mushrooms  i  apple 

Salt  2  tomatoes 

Chop  and  fry  the  onions,  apple,  mushrooms  and  vege- 
tables in  the  butter  until  tender.  Then  add  the  curry,  salt 
and  enough  water  to  moisten,  cook  a  few  minutes  longer  and 
turn  out  with  a  wall  of  boiled  rice  around  it. 

TOMATO  PIE 

Skin  and  slice  four  tomatoes  and  put  them  in  a  deep  pie 
dish,  cover  with  chopped  parsley,  minced  onion,  sliced  cu- 
cumbers, butter,  sugar,  pepper  and  salt.     Spread  mashed 


i 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  117 

potatoes,  well  seasoned,  over  the  tomatoes  for  an.  upper 
crust,  sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  the  potatoes  and  bake  until 
evenly  browned. 

TOMATO  AND  FORCEMEAT  PIE 
1  pound  of  tomatoes        Forcemeat  Short  paste 

Put  the  tomatoes  into  boiling  water  for  a  few  seconds, 
when  the  peel  will  come  off  easily.  Slice  them  after  they 
are  peeled,  and  place  them  at  the  bottom  of  a  shallow  pie 
dish.  Place  a  layer  of  forcemeat  over  them  about  an  inch 
thick.  Cover  the  dish  with  a  short  crust,  and  bake  until  the 
crust  is  done.  Make  the  forcemeat  according  to  the  force- 
meat recipe,  and  the  crust  from  recipe  for  short  paste. 

TOMATO  AND  POTATO  PIE 

I  teacup  of  tomato  puree  i  ounce  butter 

I  pound  sliced  tomatoes  Pepper  and  salt 

J4  pound  onions  Short  paste 

I  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

Slice  the  onions,  and  put  them  In  cold  water  with  the 
potatoes,  let  them  boil  up  quickly,  and  boil  for  one  minute, 
then  drain,  and  put  them  in  a  pie  dish.  Now  mix  in  the 
chopped  parsley,  tomato  puree,  butter,  and  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Cover  with  a  crust,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
one  and  one-half  hours. 

HOT  POT 

ij4  pounds  potatoes  i  tablespoon  chopped  parslej; 

^  pound  onions  i  ounce  butter 

I  small  tomato  J4  pint  ™ilk 

Pepper  and  salt 

The  onions  and  potatoes  must  both  be  weighed  after  they 
are  peeled.  Slice  the  onions  and  potatoes,  and  throw  them 
into  cold  water.  Bring  them  quickly  to  boiling  point,  and 
let  them  boil  one  minute  —  not  more,  then  drain  them.     Put 


ii8  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

them  into  a  baking  dish  with  the  tomato,  which  must  be 
skinned  and  sliced.  Add  the  chopped  parsley,  which  must 
be  sprinkled  over  the  potatoes  and  onions,  and  mixed  in. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  in  the  milk,  and  break 
up  the  butter  in  bits,  and  place  it  over  the  top.  It  can  be 
baked  in  a  covered  baking  dish  or  an  ordinary  pie  dish,  and 
will  take  two  hours  to  cook  in  a  moderate  oven. 

IRISH  STEW  NO.  i 

12  potatoes  2  ounces  butter 

6  large  onions  A  little  parsley 

I  carrot  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Cut  up  the  potatoes  in  one-inch  squares;  scald,  and  cut  ' 
up  the  onions,  chop  the  carrot  and  parsley.     Boil  all  to- 
gether in  a  pint  of  water  until  the  vegetables  are  cooked, 
but  not  pulped.     Add  the  seasoning  and  butter  fifteen  min- 
utes before  serving. 

IRISH  STEW  NO.  a 

3  pounds  potatoes  2  ounces  butter 

3  large  Spanish  onions  i  ounce  pearl  barley 

2  turnips  ij^  pints  water 

I  cauliflower  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Put  the  butter  in  a  large  saucepan ;  scald  the  onions,  slice 
them  very  thin,  and  cook  in  the  butter  for  five  minutes,  then 
cut  the  potatoes  into  quarters,  cut  the  turnips  into  one-inch 
squares,  and  break  the  cauliflower  into  small  pieces;  wash 
the  pearl  barley  carefully,  and  add  all  to  the  onions  and  but- 
ter ;  then  add  the  seasoning  and  the  water  last  of  all.  Cover 
closely,  and  cook  gently  for  three  hours.  A  little  chopped 
parsley  may  be  added  if  liked. 

The  vegetables  should  be  cooked  until  tender  but  not 
long  enough  to  lose  their  shape  and  become  mushy.  It  is 
important,  too,  that  they  should  be  well  seasoned. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  119 

IRISH  STEW  NO.  3 

I  pound  potatoes  i  ounce  butter 

54  pound  of  onions  J^  pint  milk 

Salt  and  pepper 

The  potatoes  and  onions  should  both  be  weighed  after 
peeling.  Slice  the  potatoes  and  onions,  and  throw  them 
into  cold  water ;  bring  them  quickly  to  boiling  point,  and  let 
them  boil  for  a  minute.  Drain  them,  and  put  them  In  a 
double  pan;  boil  the  milk,  and  pour  it  over  them.  Sea,son 
with  pepper,  and  add  the  butter.  Stew  for  two  hours  and 
a  half.  Half  a  saltspoon  of  pepper  and  salt  will  season  the 
stew  nicely. 

IRISH  STEW  NO.  4 

Cut  any  cooked  vegetables  desired  into  dice,  mix  well  and 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  minced  onion,  chives,  parsley,  cher- 
vil, or  green  pepper  finely  minced.  The  hash  must  be 
moistened  with  milk  or  water,  half  a  cupful  for  a  quart  of 
hash.  Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  put  In 
the  hash  and  spread  lightly  in  the  pan.  Over  this  put  dots 
of  butter,  using  about  a  tablespoon.  Cover  the  pan  and 
place  where  the  hash  will  not  burn  and  cook  half  an  hour, 
then  fold  and  turn  on  a  hot  platter.  A  rich  brown  crust 
will  have  formed  on  the  bottom  of  the  hash  if  the  heat  was 
sufficient.     Serve  very  hot. 

MUSHROOM  PIE 

Peel  and  trim  the  mushrooms,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  cook  in  butter  until  tender.  Boil  the  potatoes,  mash 
them,  add  salt,  butter  and  milk.  Line  a  buttered  pie  dish 
with  the  potatoes,  put  In  the  mushrooms  and  any  juice  that 
may  have  come  from  them. 

Cover  with  a  very  light  crust,  and  bake  in  a  pie  dish.  Or 
a  top  crust  of  the  potatoes  may  be  used. 


I20  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

NOUILLES  AND  CHEESE 

8  ounces  of  nouilles  2  ounces  grated  Gruyere  or  Par- 

3  pints  of  boiling  water  mesan  cheese 

2  ounces  of  butter  3  good  sized  tomatoes 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Let  the  water  be  boiling  in  an  aluminum  saucepan,  and 
throw  in  the  nouilles  gently,  let  it  boil  slowly  for  about 
ten  minutes,  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  a  few  minutes.  Have 
ready  another  enamel  or  aluminum  saucepan  about  the  same 
size,  into  which  put  the  butter  and  tomatoes,  which  must 
be  skinned  and  cut  up,  and  let  them  cook  while  the  nouilles 
are  straining,  about  fifteen  minutes.  Now  add  the  nouilles 
and  seasoning  to  the  tomatoes  and  butter,  also  the  cheese. 
Mix  all  together. 

TAPIOCA  AND  TOMATOES 

I  tablespoon  tapioca  i  ounce  Parmesan 

1  ounce  butter  i  ounce  bread  crumbs 

2  medium-sized  tomatoes  Pepper  and  salt 

Soak  the  tapioca  for  two  hours  in  water,  and  then  put  it 
on  to  boll;  add  a  little  more  water  if  necessary,  until  it  is 
quite  done,  and  the  consistency  of  porridge.  Put  the  toma- 
toes in  boiling  water  for  a  few  seconds,  when  the  peel  will 
come  off  easily.  Slice  them  after  they  are  peeled,  and  lay. 
them  at  the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered  baking  dish.  Season 
the  tapioca  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  in  half  the  butter, 
and  spread  it  over  the  tomatoes.  Now  put  in  the  Parme- 
san, and  sprinkle  the  bread  crumbs  over  the  top.  Break 
up  the  remainder  of  the  butter  in  bits,  and  place  it  over  the 
bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  twenty  min- 
ute^. The  preparation  of  this  dish  will  take  less  time  if 
the  Minute  Tapioca  is  used.  Follow  the  directions  for  cook- 
ing which  appear  on  the  package  and  proceed  as  in  the  above 
recipe.    Season  well. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  121 

PLAZA  TOMATOES 

3  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 

1  tablespoon  grated  cheese  i  tablespoon  cream 

1  teaspoon  sugar  i  teaspoon  minced  onion 

Paprika  and  salt 

Cut  three  tomatoes  of  uniform  size  in  half  and  take  out 
the  pulp.  Sprinkle  the  shell  with  salt  and  put  the  pulp  in 
a  saucepan  with  the  cheese,  onion,  cream,  paprika,  salt, 
bread  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Cook  a  few  minutes,  then 
put  the  mixture  in  the  halves  with  butter  on  top.  Put  into 
the  oven,  and  cook  until  browned. 

Serve  each  hialf  on  a  piece  of  buttered  toast. 

TOMATO  RAREBIT 

2  tablespoons  butter  J^  teaspoon  soda 
2  tablespoons  flour  i  pound  cheese 

^  cup  of  milk  ^  cup  stewed  and  strained  to- 

Salt,  mustard,  cayenne  matoes 

Cook  the  butter  and  flour  together,  add  the  milk,  and  as 
soon  as  the  mixture  thickens,  add  tomatoes  and  soda.  Then 
add  cheese  and  seasoning.  Serve  on  toasted  whole  wheat  or 
graham  bread.  ' 

GREEN  CORN,  TOMATO  AND  CHEESE 

1  tablespoon  butter  i  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  of  grated  cheese  5^  teaspoon  paprika 
54  cup  canned  or  grated  fresh     i  clove  of  garlic 

com  4  slices  of  bread 

I  ripe  pimento  j/2  cup  of  tomato  puree 

Into  the  melted  butter,  stir  the  cheese  until  it,  too,  is 
melted.  Then  add  the  corn  and  pimento,  stir  for  a  moment, 
and  add  the  tomato  juice,  the  salt  and  paprika.  Have  ready 
the  bread  toasted  on  one  side,  and  very  lightly  rubbed  on  its 
untoasted  side  the  garlic  cut  in  two.  Pour  the  mixture  over 
the  untoasted  side  of  the  bread,  and  serve  at  once. 


122  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

FRIED  BANANAS 

Peel  the  bananas,  slice  them  lengthwise,  and  cut  in  halves. 
Fry  in  hot  butter  or  oil  until  browned.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  serve  on  pieces  of  buttered  toast. 

FORCEMEAT 

4  ounces  bread  crumbs  5^  saltspoon  grated  lemon  rind 

I  onion  as  large  as  a  hazelnut         J4.  teacup  of  milk 
I  dessertspoon  chopped  parsley        Very  little  nutmeg,  pepper,  and 
I  teaspoon  flour  salt 

I  ounce  butter 

Put  the  bread  crumbs  in  a  bowl.  Slice  the  onion,  mince 
it  very  fine,  and  add  it  to  the  bread  crumbs  with  the  parsley, 
lemon  rind,  nutmeg,  flour  and  pepper.  Two  saltspoons  of 
salt  and  half  a  saltspoon  of  pepper  would  be  sufficient 
for  most  people.  Now  heat  the  milk,  add  the  butter,  and 
when  it  has  melted,  pour  it  over  the  breadcrumbs,  etc.  Stir 
well,  and  taste  to  see  whether  it  is  sufficiently  seasoned;  if 
not,  add  more  seasoning.  The  mixture  will  now  be  ready 
for  use. 

GNOCHI 

1  pint  milk  %  pound  semolina 

I  pint  water 

Boil  the  milk  and  water  together  in  a  double  saucepan, 
sprinkle  in  the  semolina,  slowly  stirring  all  the  time,  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Turn  out  to  cool  in  a  flat  dish. 
When  cold,  cut  into  shapes,  cover  each  with  bread  crumbs 
'and  flour,  and  fry  in  boiling  oil  or  butter.  A  tablespoon  of 
sweet  herbs  may  be  added  if  liked  or  a  flavoring  of  onion. 

SEMOLINA  BALLS 

Put  one  pint  of  milk  in  a  saucepaij  and  bring  to  boiling 
point.  Add  three  ounces  of  semolina  and  stir  over  the  fire 
until  the  mixture  is  stiff  —  about  twenty  minutes.     Add  one 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  123 

tablespoon  of  cheese,  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  on  a  plate  in 
a  flat  cake  and  when  cold  form  into  balls,  roll  in  crumbs  and 
fry  in  boiling  oil  a  golden  brown. 

.  SAVORY  SEMOLINA 

Put  half  a  pint  of  milk  into  a  double  boiler  and  bring  to 
the  boiling  point,  then  stir  in  two  tablespoons  of  semolina, 
boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  a  little 
grated  onion,  two  ounces  of  grated  cheese,  cayenne  p^dpper, 
mustard,  and  salt.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  or  fireproof  pie 
plate,  place  the  savory  semolina  in  it,  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs,  and  pieces  of  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

SEMOLINA  AND  CHEESE  RISSOLES 

The  above  mixture  when  cold  will  make  these.  Form 
into  rissoles,  roll  in  rusk  crumbs  or  raspings,  and  fry  in  boil- 
ing oil,  or  butter  till  brown. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES 

I  quart  hominy  I  tablespoon  butter 

I  cup  milk  a  teaspoons  salt 

I  tablespoon  flour  ^  to  i  cup  bread  crumbs 

Drain  the  hominy,  and  put  through  a  food  chopper,  or 
mash.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour  and  salt. 
Mix  this  with  the  hominy,  and  add  bread  crumbs  sufficient 
to  form  into  croquettes.  Then  have  ready  some  dried 
bread  crumbs  to  which  two  tablespoons  of  milk  or  water 
have  been  added.  Dip  the  croquettes  into  the  bread  crumbs. 
Place  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  evenly 
browned. 

BANANA  CUTLETS 

4  bananas  i  cup  of  milk 

J^  pint  of  English  walnuts  i  tablespoon  of  flour 

I  teaspoon  of  butter  i  teaspoon  of  salt 

I  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice 


124  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Put  the  nuts  through  a  nut  mill  and  add  mashed  bananas ; 
put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  with  the  flour  and  milk,  add  the 
bananas  and  nuts.  Cook  for  five  minutes  and  add  the  salt 
and  lemon  juice.  Turn  into  a  dish  to  cool  and  form  into 
cutlets  and  fry  in  boiling  oil.  Or  the  mixture  may  be  put 
in  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  baked  in  the  oven  until  brown. 

WALNUT  PIE 

Yi  pint  shelled  walnuts  ^  pint  bread  crumbs 

y^  pint  milk  I  teaspoon  salt 

Onion  juice  i  saltspoon  pepper 

I  tablespoon  flour 

Run  the  bread  crumbs  and  walnuts  through  a  ,nut  mill, 
then  mix  them  with  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  onion  juice, 
the  flour  made  into  a  paste  with  the  milk  and  seasoning. 
Bring  to  a  boil  in  a  saucepan  and  mix  thoroughly,  then  pour 
into  a  shallow  baking  dish  and  bake  a  rich  brown. 

POLENTA    ' 

This  dish,  which  is  common  in  Italy,  differs  little,  except 
in  name,  from  hasty  pudding,  though  it  is  served  in  very 
different  ways.  Sometimes  cheese  is  added  during  the  cook- 
ing. Polenta  is  often  reheated  with  tomato  sauce.  The 
dish  is  improved  by  sprinkling  each  layer  of  polenta  with 
cheese.  When  the  polenta  is  to  be  reheated,  it  is  well  to 
cut  it  into  small  pieces  in  order  that  the  sauce  may  be  well 
distributed  through  the  dish. 

SAUCE  FOR  POLENTA 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  i  cup  thick  strained  tomato  juice 

2  tablespoons  of  flour  Salt  and  pepper 

Melt  the  butter,  and  cook  the  flour  thoroughly  in  it;  add 
the  tomato  juice  and  seasonings,  and  cook  until  smooth,  stir- 
ring constantly. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  125 

FRIED  CORN  MEAL  MUSH 

Packing  hasty  pudding  in  granite  pans,  cutting  it  into 
slices  and  frying  it  makes  a  good  dish.  In  Italy,  polenta  is 
spread  out  in  thin  layers  on  a  board,  and  cut  in  small  blocks. 
These  blocks  are  crumbed  and  fried  in  deep  oil  or  butter. 
Another  method  is  to  mix  corn  meal  in  three  times  its  value*^ 
of  water,  and  cook  it  in  water  only  long  enough  to  form  a 
mush,  and  complete  the  cooking  by  frying  the  meal  in  butter. 
This  is  not  so  stiff  as  ordinary  fried  corn  meal  mush. 

CORN  MEAL  MUSH  WITH  FRUIT 

Corn  meal  mush  is  often  served  with  dried  fruits,  par- 
ticularly with  figs  and  dates.  In  preparing  such  fruit  for 
use  with  the  mush,  it  is  usually  necessary  to  soften  it.  This 
can  easily  be  accomplished  by  washing  the  fruit  and  then 
heating  it  in  a  slow  oven.  As  a  result  of  the  heat  the  water 
remaining  on  the  fruit  is  absorbed  and  the  fruit  softened 
and  also  dried  on  the  surface. 

CORN  MEAL  MUSH  WITH  CHEESE 

For  this  dish  yellow  corn  meal  is  usually  used.  For  a 
mush  made  with  one  cup  of  yellow  corn  meal  the  usual  allow- 
ance is  one-half  cup,  or  two  ounces,  of  grated  cheese.  There 
is,  however,  no  limit  to  the  amount  of  cheese  which  can  be 
added,  and  the  addition  of  cheese  tends  not  only  to  make  a 
highly  nitrogenous  and  nourishing  dish,  but  also  to  make  a 
dish  which  can  be  eaten  without  the  addition  of  butter  and 
cream.  Like  the  ordinary  corn  meal  mush,  it  is  often 
fried  either  in  deep  fat,  after  having  been  crumbed,  or  in  a 
small  amount  of  fat. 

CORN  MEAL  DUMPLINGS 

2  cups  com  meal  Boiling  water 

I  teaspoon  salt  Flour  for  dredging 

Mix  the  meal  and  salt;  pour  boiling  water  over  the  meal 


126  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

and  stir  thoroughly,  using  water  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
paste.  Form  portions  of  paste  into  flat  dumplings  about 
three  inches  in  diameter.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  and  drop  the  dumplings  in  carefully,  cover,  and  cook 
twenty  minutes.  These  dumplings  are  often  cooked  with 
turnip  tops  or  other  greens.  Some  cooks  dredge  the  dump- 
lings with  flour  before  boiling  them. 

CORN  MEAL  CUTLETS 

Turn  corn  meal  mush  into  bread  tins  previously  wet  with 
cold  water;  when  cold,  slice.  Dip  the  sliced  mush  into 
bread  crumbs.  Place  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  until  a  rich  brown.     Serve  with  butter  or  maple  syrup. 

BREAD  CUTLETS 

Cut  some  neat  slices  of  brown  or  white  bread  half  an  inch 
thick.  Remove  crust,  and  cut  into  large  fingers ;  soak  them 
In  a  mixture  composed  of  milk,  a  little  flour  and  sweet  herbs 
and  seasoning,  and  fry  crisp,  either  in  butter  or  oil. 

MUSHROOMS  IN  CREAM 

Peel  and  trim  one  pound  of  mushrooms  and  put  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  cook  a  few  min- 
utes. Add  one  tablespoon  of  cream,  and  cook  until  the 
mushrooms  are  tender.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  serve 
on  toast. 

BROILED  MUSHROOMS 

Peel  the  mushrooms,  remove  the  stems,  and  place  the  caps 
on  a  buttered  broiler.  Broil  five  minutes,  until  the  mush- 
rooms are  brown  and  tender.  Place  on  a  hot  dish  with  a 
piece  of  butter  in  each  cap  and  a  drop  of  lemon  juice.  Dust 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  very  hot.  They  may  also  be 
served  on  hot  buttered  toast. 


MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  1127, 

SCALLOPED  MUSHROOMS 

Skin  one  pound  of  mushrooms,  cut  them  up  and  sprinkle 
with  paprika  and  salt.  Cook  in  butter  for  fifteen  minutes, 
add  one  tablespoon  of  flour  and  mix  well.  Add  one  gill  of 
milk  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Then  add  one  teaspoon 
of  chopped  parsley.  Line  a  shallow  baking  dish  with 
mashed  potato,  pour  the  mushrooms  into  it  and  make  a  bor- 
der around  the  edge  with  mashed  potato  pressed  through 
a  forcing  bag  with  a  roseforcer  at  the  end.  Put  in  the  oven 
for  ten  minutes.     Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

MUSHROOM  UNDER  GLASS 

Fry  the  mushrooms,  and  then  broil  them ;  put  them  on  a 
piece  of  toast,  and  cover  with  a  good  rich  cream ;  place  glass 
bell  over  the  whole,  and  cook  in  oven  about  ten  minutes. 


VEGETABLES 

Mine  eyes  smell  onions,  I  shall  weep  anon. 

Shakespeare. 

BOILED  ASPARAGUS 

Unrie  the  bunch  of  asparagus,  cut  off  the  tough  portion 
of  the  stalk,  remove  the  scales,  and  wash  very  thoroughly. 
When  thoroughly  cleansed,  retie  with  a  white  tape  wide 
enough  not  to  cut  the  asparagus.  Stand  in  a  kettle  of  boil- 
ing, salted  water,  and  cook  uncovered  for  ten  minutes,  al- 
lowing the  tips  to  remain  out  of  the  water.  Then  lay  the 
bunch  down  so  that  it  is  wholly  covered  with  water,  and  cook 
another  five  minutes.  Remove  from  the  water,  and  serve 
with  a  dressing  of  melted  butter.  If  desired,  the  asparagus 
may  be  served  on  toast.  Thd  asparagus  may  be  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  cooked  if  preferred. 

ASPARAGUS  IN  CREAM 

Untie  the  asparagus,  wash,  remove  the  scales,  and  cut  into 
half-inch  pieces.  Cook  in  sufficient  boiling  water  —  salted 
—  to  almost  cover  for  ten  to  twelve  minutes.  Drain  off 
the  liquid,  and  pour  over  the  asparagus  some  hot  milk  and 
cream  in  the  proportion  of  one-third  cream  and  two-thirds 
milk;  also  add  butter  for  seasoning.  One  quart  of  aspar- 
agus will  require  one-third  cup  cream,  two-thirds  cup  milk, 
two  tablespoons  butter  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt ;  or  a  white 
sauce  may  be  used. 

ASPARAGUS  IN  CANAP:]ES 

Prepare  canapes  by  cutting  stale  bread  into  two  and  one- 
half-inch  cubes.     Remove  a  two-inch  cube  from  the  side, 

128 


VEGETABLES  129 

-forming  a  square  receptacle.  Toast  in  oven  until  evenly 
browned.  Place  a  few  asparagus  tips  in  canape  and  fill 
with  cream  sauce  or  cream  tomato  sauce. 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  GREEN  PEAS 

I  pint  cut  asparagus  i  teaspoon  salt 

Yi  pint  green  peas  i  teaspoon  sugar 

Water  to  cover  well  i  tablespoon  butter 

J4  cup  cream 
Select  peas  as  tender  and  fresh  as  possible,  as  peas  lose 
their  sweetness  after  being  gathered.  Cook  in  boiling, 
salted  water.  The  asparagus  should  be  crisp  and  tender. 
If  somewhat  wilted,  throw  into  cold  water  for  a  half  hour 
or  so.  Remove  the  scales,  and  wash  thoroughly  by  dashing 
up  and  down  in  several  waters  to  make  sure  that  all  sand  is 
removed.  Cut  into  half-inch  lengths,  and  cook  in  enough 
boiling,  salted  water  to  cover  well.  When  both  are  tender, 
mix  the  vegetables  and  add  the  butter  and  cream  for  season- 
ing.    They  are  also  delicious  without  the  cream. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES 

Cut  the  washed  and  peeled  artichokes  into  cubes,  put  in 
a  saucepan,  and  cover  with  milk,  a  pint  to  quart  of  cubes. 
Add  one  small  onion,  and  cook  twenty  minutes.  Beat  to- 
gether in  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one  level  tablespoon  of 
flour,  and  stir  this  into  the  boiling  milk.  Then  season  with 
a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoon  of  pepper,  and 
continue  the  cooking  half  an  hour  longer.  The  cooking 
should  be  done  in  a  double  boiler. 

FRENCH  ARTICHOKES 

Trim  the  stems  off  and  cut  off  some  of  the  outside  leaves 
and  cut  the  top  off  straight  across. 

Remove  the  inside.  Wash  well,  and  place  upside  down 
to  drain.  1    Then  put  them  in  boiling  water  for  half  an  hour 


I30  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

or  until  an  outside  leaf  will  pull  off  easily;  drain  well  and 
serve  with  Bechamel  or  Hollandaise  sauce. 

ARTICHOKE  BASE 

Cut  away  all  the  leaves  of  the  artichokes,  leaving  the  base. 
Boil  these  in  salted  water  until  tender,  about  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  hot  or  cold  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 

SCALLOPED  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES 

I  pound  of  artichokes  4  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 

J4  pound  grated  Parmesan  cheese     2  ounces  butter 

Pepper,  salt 

Wash,  and  pare  the  artichokes ;  boil  them  until  quite  ten- 
der, which  should  be  in  twenty  minutes.  Press  all  the  water 
from  them,  and  rub  them  through  a  sieve.  Now  beat  in 
one  ounce  of  butter,  and  season  them  with  pepper.  Butter 
either  a  French  baking  dish  or  sufficient  china  scallop  shells 
to  hold  the  mixture,  room  being  left  in  each  shell  for  the 
Parmesan  and  bread  crumbs.  If  a  dish  has  been  used, 
spread  the  Parmesan  evenly  over  the  artichoke  puree,  and 
then  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  same  way.  Break  up  the  re- 
maining ounce  of  butter,  and  scatter  over  the  dish.  If  the 
scallop  shells  are  used,  the  Parmesan,  bread  crumbs  and 
butter  must  be  divided  according  to  the  number  of  scallops. 
They  should  be  browned  nicely  in  a  quick  oven. 

FRIED  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES 

Peel,  and  cut  them  through  lengthwise,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  fry  in  boiling  oil  or  butter  a  golden  brown.  Drain  on 
paper  and  serve  very  hot. 

TO  BLANCH  STRING  BEANS 

Green  beans  should  always  be  blanched.  To  do  this, 
drain  from  the  cold  water,  and  put  them  into  water  that  is 
boiling  rapidly,  allowing  a  teaspoon  of  salt  to  two  quarts 


VEGETABLES  131 

of  water.  Boil  rapidly,  with  the-  cover  partially  ofF  the 
saucepan,  for  twenty  minutes.  Turn  into  a  colander,  and 
let  cold  water  run  upon  them.  The  blanching  may  be  done 
in  the  morning,  and  the  beans  finished  for  dinner  at  the 
proper  time. 

STRING  BEANS 

Remove  the  string,  cut  or  snap  into  inch  lengths,  wash, 
blanch,  and  cook  uncovered  in  boiling  water  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes,  adding  the  salt  and  butter  the  last  few  minutes  of 
cooking.  Drain,  serve  very  hot.  Cook  in  as  little  water 
as  possible. 

SALAD  BEANS 

1  quart  string  beans  i  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  i  cup  hot  water 

I  tablespoon  flour  i  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Remove  the  strings  and  ends  by  paring  with  a  sharp  knife, 
and  cut  Into  three-quarter  inch  lengths.  Put  to  cook  In  suf- 
ficient boiling  salted  water  to  cover,  and  cook  from  one  to 
three  hours,  according  to  the  age  of  the  beans.  When  ten- 
der, pour  off  the  water  and  measure.  There  should  be 
about  one  cup  of  the  liquid.  Rub  the  flour  and  one-half  of 
the  butter  together.  Pour  over  this,  stirring  constantly, 
the  hot  liquid ;  then  place  over  the  fire,  and  cook  five  minutes. 
When  finished  cooking,  remove  from  fire.  Add  lemon  juice, 
and  pour  over  the  cooked  beans. 

SCARLET  RUNNER  BEANS 

The  tender  green  pods  are  "  whittled  "  into  small  sections 
after  stringing  and  cooked  in  water  until  tender.  Like  all 
other  green  vegetables,  they  lose  their  color  and  delicate 
flavor  if  overcooked.  These  beans  are  best  seasoned  only 
with  butter  and  salt.  All  the  water  in  which  they  are  cooked 
should  be  drained  from  them.  They  are  delicious  served 
cold  as  a  salad. 


132  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

KIDNEY  BEANS 
Kidney  beans,  when  gathered,  while  the  beans  are  still 
tender,  may  be  cooked  like  lima  beans.     It  takes  from  one 
to  two  hours. 

LIMA  BEANS 
Shell  I  quart  of  beans  and  cook  in  boiling  water  from  one 
to  one  and  one-half  hours,  letting  them  simmer  most  of  the 
time  and  adding  salt  the  last  half  hour  of  cooking.  Cook 
in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them  that  there  may  be  none 
to  drain  off  when  the  beans  are  cooked.  Season  with  2 
tablespoons  of  butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  or  a  white 
sauce  for  vegetables  may  be  used. 

DRIED  BEANS 
Soak  in  plenty  of  cold  water  over  night.  Do  not  use 
warm  water,  as  they  may  spoil.  Cook  slowly  in  boiling' 
water  until  tender.  There  should  be  little  liquid  remaining 
when  finished  cooking.  Season  with  butter  and  salt  a  few 
minutes  before  tender.  Croquettes  made  from  the  lima 
beans  are  a  nice  left  over  dish. 

DRIED  BEANS  SAUT!^ 

Cook  the  beans  until  tender  but  not  broken.  Drain  off 
the  water,  and  save  it  for  soup.  For  one  quart  of  beans,  put 
three  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saute  pan.  When  the  but- 
ter Is  hot,  put  In  the  dried  beans,  which  have  been  seasoned 
with  a  tablespoon  of  salt  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  pepper. 
Cook  over  a  hot  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  frequently  turning 
the  beans  with  a  fork.  Cover,  and  cook  for  half  an  hour 
where  they  will  not  burn.  If  the  beans  are  liked  moist, 
add  a  cup  of  milk  or  water  the  last  half  hour  of  cooking. 

They  must  be  cooked  until  all  the  liquid  is  absorbed  or  if 
any  remains  when  the  beans  are  tender  it  must  be  drained 
off.     pThey  may  be  served  with  a  tomato  sauce. 


VEGETABLES  133 

BAKED  BEANS  NO.  i 

Cook  the  beans  gently  until  the  skins  begin  to  break. 
Then  drain  off  the  water.  Put  the  beans  in  a  bean  pot  or 
deep  earthen  dish,  and  add  seasonings  and  water  to  cover 
the  beans.  The  simplest  seasoning  is  one  tablespoon  of  salt 
and  one-half  teaspoon  of  pepper  to  a  quart  of  beans.  Mix 
the  salt  and  pepper  with  the  water.  A  tablespoon  of  mus- 
tard may  be  added  as  well  as  a  tablespoon  or  more  of  mo- 
lasses and  an  onion.  Bake  the  beans  in  a  very  moderate 
oven  for  eight  or  ten  hours.  Add  a  little  boiling  water  froib 
time  to  time,  but  never  enough  to  bring  the  water  beyond  the 
top  of  the  beans.  Any  kind  of  dried  beans  may  be  baked 
in  this  manner,  but  the  small  pea  bean  is  the  best  for  Boston 
Baked  Beans.     Do  not  cover  the  beans  while  baking. 

BAKED  BEANS  NO.  2 

1  pint  white  beans  2  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

1  tablespoon  malt  honey  or  mo-     3  pints  boiling  water 
lasses  2  teaspoons  salt 

J4  cup  butter 

Soak- the  beans  over  night  in  cold  water;  then  cook  in  cold 
water,  and  parboil  for  ten  minutes.  Drain  off  this  liquid, 
and  add  three  pints  of  boiling  water.  Cook  about  two  hours 
or  until  the  beans  begin  to  break  open.  Then  add  the  sea- 
soning, and  turn  into  a  covered  bean  pot  or  baking  dish,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  four  or  five  hours ;  add  water  if  necessary 
during  the  baking  process. 

Remove  cover  a  half-hour  before  finished  baking  to  allow 
beans  to  brown. 

BAKED  LIMA  BEANS 

I  quart  dried  lima  beans  i^  tablespoons  salt 

%  cup  butter  3  cups  milk 

Soak  the  beans  over  night,  and  cook  in  water  until  tender. 


134  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Drain,  put  in  a  baking  dish,  and  add  butter,  milk  and  salt. 
Bake  one  and  one-half  hours  slowly. 

BEAN  CROQUETTES 

3  cups  stewed  or  baked  beans  2  tablespoons  butter 

3  cups  corn  flakes  3  tablespoons  strained  tomato 

1 5^  teaspoons  salt 
Soak  one  cup  of  beans  in  cold  water  over  night, 
then  cook  in  three  or  four  pints  of  water,  and  cook  until 
tender;  when  quite  dry,  add  the  butter,  strained  tomato 
and  salt  if  desired.  Lastly,  fold  in  the  cornflakes — the  quan- 
tity of  flakes  will  depend  upon  the  dryness  of  the  beans — and 
form  into  croquettes.  When  shaped,  place  in  a  hot  oven, 
and  bake  until  nicely  browned. 

BUTTERED  BEETS 

Wash,  and  cook  the  beets  in  boiling  water  until  tender, 
which  will  xequire  from  one  to  four  hours  according  to  the 
age  of  the  beets.  Drain,  and  turn  into  cold  water.  Remove 
the  skins,  slice,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  moisten  with  melted 
butter,  using  two  tablespoons  of  butter  to  one  quart  of  sliced 
beets.     Reheat,  and  serve. 

ITALIAN  BEETS 

Yz  cup  butter  Yz  cup  lemon  juice 

xYz  teaspoons  salt  3  cups  hot  water 

Y2  dozen  medium  sized  beets  Yi  cup  flour 

Wash  the  beets,  and  put  into  boiling  water.  Cook  from 
one  to  four  hours,  or  until  the  skins  will  loosen  from  the  beet. 
Put  into  cold  water,  and  remove  the  skin.  Cut  the  beets 
lengthwise  through  the  center  in  about  eight  pieces.  Make  a 
sauce  of  the  remainder  of  the  ingredients  given  above. 

Mix  the  flour  and  three-quarters  of  the  butter;  add  the 
hot  water  slowly,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  five  minutes, 
and  then  add  salt,  remaining  butter,  and  the  lemon  juice. 


VEGETABLES  135 

Turn  the  beets  into  this  sauce,  and  when  thoroughly  re- 
heated, serve. 

BEET  GREENS 

Do  not  separate  the  roots  from  the  leaves  and  wash  thor- 
oughly in  many  waters.  Put  in  a  saucepan  and  cover  gen-/ 
erously  with  boiling  water.  Add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  for 
every  two  quarts  of  greens.  Boil  rapidly  until  tender,  about 
thirty  minutes.  Drain  and  chop  fine,  season  with  butter  and 
salt. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  BLANCHED 

Remove  the  wilted  or  yellow  leaves  from  the  sprouts,  cut 
the  stock  close  to  the  head,  and  soak  in  salted  cold  water 
for  an  hour  or  more.  Drain  well,  and  put  into  plenty  of 
boiling,  salted  water.  Allow  one  teaspoon  of  salt  to  two 
quarts  of  water.  Boil  rapidly  for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 
When  done,  turn  into  a  colander,  and  pour  cold  water  over 
the  heads.  They  are  now  ready  to  cook  in  butter  or  to  serve 
with  any  kind  of  sauce.  Or  the  water  may  be  drained  from 
the  sprouts,  which  may  then  be  seasoned  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  SAUTE 

I  quart  Brussels  sprouts  ^  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  J4  teaspoon  pepper 

Blanch  the  sprouts,  and  drain  well.  Put  them  into  a 
broad-bottomed  saucepan  with  the  butter  and  other  season- 
ings. Place  over  a  hot  fire,  and  shake  frequently.  Cook 
five  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 

CREAMED  BRUSSELS  SPROUTS 

Pick  out,  and  remove  the  wilted  leaves,  and  soak  in  cold 
water  fifteen  minutes.  Cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  about 
twenty  minutes  or  until  tender.  Drain,  and  cover  with  white 
sauce,  using  one  cup  of  the  white  sauce  to  each  pint  of  the 
sprouts. 


136  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

The  brussels  sprouts  may  be  served  with  a  butter  dressing 
the  same  as  buttered  cauliflower. 

BOILED  CABBAGE 

Cut  a  small  head  of  cabbage  into  four  parts,  cutting  down 
through  the  stock.  Soak  for  half  an  hour  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water  to  which  has  been  added  a  tablespoon  of  salt;  this  is 
to  draw  out  any  insects  that  may  be  hidden  in  the  leaves. 
Take  from  the  water,  and  cut  into  slices.  Have  a  large 
saucepan  half  full  of  boiling  water,  and  put  in  the  cabbage, 
pushing  it  under  the  water  with  a  spoon.  Add  one  table- 
spoon of  salt  and  one-quarter  teaspoon  of  baking  soda. 
Cook  from  twenty-five  to  forty-five  minutes,  depending  upon 
the  age  of  the  cabbage.'  Turn  into  a  colander,  and  drain 
for  about  two  minutes.  Put  in  a  chopping  bowl,  arid  mince. 
Season  with  butter  and  pepper,  and  more  salt  if  needed. 
Allow  a  tablespoon  of  butter  to  a  pint  of  cooked  cabbage. 
Have  the  kitchen  windows  open  at  the  top  while  the  cabbage 
is  boiling,  and  there  will  be  little  If  any  odor  of  cabbage  in 
the  house.  Over-cooking  turns  cabbage  yellow,  gives  it  a 
strong  flavor,  and  is  the  cause  of  digestive  disturbance. 

CABBAGE  AU  GRATIN 

Boil  the  cabbage,  put  it  In  a  colander  and  press  out  all  the 
water;  then  put  It  in  a  chopping  bowl  and  mince.  Put  a 
layer  of  the  chopped  cabbage  in  a  baking-dish  and  cover 
with  a  layer  of  cheese,  and  a  layer  of  white  sauce  made  of  i 
cup  of  milk,  I  tablespoon  of  flour,  2  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter, seasoned  with  salt  and  paprika.  Fill  the  baking  dish 
with  layers  in  this  order,  making  the  top  layer  of  bread 
crumbs  dotted  with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  in  the  oven  until 
the  bread  crumbs  are  nicely  browned. 

The  sauce  bubbling  through  the  crumbs  is  an  indication 
that  it  has  been  sufficiently  cooked. 


VEGETABLES  1137 

STEWED  CABBAGE  IN  MILK 

Cut  the  cabbage  into  thin  slices  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan 
of  actively  boiling  water.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes,  then 
drain.  Pour  over  it  enough  milk  to  well  cover  it,  add  salt, 
pepper,  paprika,  and  a  pinch  of  mace,  and  cook  until  tender 
and  until  the  milk  only  moistens  the  cabbage,  not  enough  to 
pour  off.     Add  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  serve  hot. 

CREAMED  CABBAGE 

I  pint  boiled  and  minced  cabbage     i  teaspoon  flour 
5^  pint  hot  milk  J^  teaspoon  salt 

I  tablespoon  butter  J4  teaspoon  pepper 

Put  the  cabbage,  hot  milk,  salt  and  pepper  in  a  saucepan 
on  the  fire.  Beat  the  butter  and  flour  together  until  creamy, 
and  then  stir  into  the  contents  of  the  saucepan.  Simmer  ten 
minutes  until  the  raw  taste  of  the  flour  is  gone,  being  careful 
not  to  scorch  the  sauce.     Serve  very  hot. 

PUR:EE  of  CABBAGE  AND  POTATOES 

1  pint  boiled  and  minced  cabbage     a  teaspoons  salt 

6  medium-sized  potatoes  J^  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  J^.  pint  hot  milk 

Peel  the  potatoes,  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  them.  Cook  just  thirty  minutes. 
Pour  off  the  water,  and  mash  fine  and  light.  Beat  in  the  hot 
milk,  seasoning  and  cabbage.  Cook  about  five  minutes 
longer. 

HOT  SLAW 

Slice  the  cabbage  into  thin  shreds,  and  boil  for  twenty 
minutes  in  salted,  rapidly-boiling  water.  Press  out  all  the 
water  and  marinate  it  with  a  sauce  made  of  two  tablespoons 
of  butter,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  saltspoon  of  pepper 
and  paprika,  and  one  cup  of  pear  vinegar.^  Mix  well  and 
put  in  a  covered  saucepan  on  the  back  of  the  range  for  a 


138  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

few  minutes  so  that  the  cabbage  and  sauce  will  become  well 
blended  and  will  be  kept  hot. 

COLD  SLAW 

Cut  a  firm  cabbage  in  fine  shreds.  Pour  over  it  a  French 
dressing,  using  an  extra  quantity  of  salt.     Mix  it  thoroughly. 

CARROTS 

Wash  the  carrots,  scrape  them  lightly  and  cut  into  balls 
with  a  French  potato  scoop,  or  dice.  Put  in  a  stewpan  with 
salted  boiling  water,  allowing  a  teaspoon  of  salt  for  a  quart 
of  water  and  boil  until  tender.  Young  carrots  will  cook  in 
thirty  minutes  and  old  ones  in  forty-five.  Drain  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 

CARROTS  A  L'ALLEMANDE 
Wash  and  scrape  young  carrots,  boil  them  in  salted  water 
and  drain.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan ;  for  each  pint  add  one 
tablespoon  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  one  gill  of  water.  Cook  over  a  hot  fire  until  the 
carrots  have  absorbed  the  seasoning  and  liquids. 

CREAMED  CARROTS 

3  cups  diced,  cooked  carrots  i  cup  white  sauce 

To  prepare  the  carrots,  select  two  large  or  three  medium- 
sized  carrots,  wash  and  scrape,  and  drop  at  once  into  cold 
water  to  prevent  discoloration.  Cut  into  half-inch  cubes, 
or  if  preferred,  cut  lengthwise  into  quarters,  and  then  into 
one-inch  pieces.  Steam  or  cook  in  boiling  water — salted- 
one  or  two  hours,  or  until  tender.  Prepare  white  sauce  or 
cream  sauce.  Drain  the  carrots,  and  add  the  sauce;  reheat 
and  serve.  Or  Instead  of  the  sauce,  put  the  diced  carrots  in 
a  sauce  pan  with  i  tablespoon  of  butter,  i  teaspoon  of  sugar, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  i  gill  of  water  and  cook  until  all 
the  liquid  Is  absorbed. 


VEGETABLES  139 

CARROTS  WITH  GREEN  PEAS 

ij^  pints  diced  carrots  i  can  peas 

I  pint  sauce  for  vegetables 
Prepare  the  carrots  the  same  as  for  creamed  carrots. 
Cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender,  adding  salt  one-half  hour 
before  they  are  done.  Drain  and  prepare  the  sauce  for 
vegetables,  using  all  milk  for  the  liquid.  Drain  and  warm 
the  peas,  and  add  to  the  vegetables  and  sauce.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point,  and  serve. 

SUGARED  CARROTS  WITH  PEAS 

Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots;  then  cut  in  slices  or  dice, 
and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  boiling  salted  water.  Cook  until 
tender,  then  strain,  and  return  to  the  saucepan  with  one-half 
cup  of  butter  and  one  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Cover,  and 
cook  slowly  until  the  carrots  are  coated  with  the  butter  and 
sugar.  Add  one  pint  of  hot  cooked  peas,  season  with  butter, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  hot. 

BUTTERED  CAULIFLOWER 

Remove  all  the  green  leaves,  and  place  the  cauliflower 
head  downward  in  cold  water  to  which  has  been  added  one 
tablespoon  of  salt  to  each  quart  of  water.  Soak  one-half 
hour  or  more  to  draw  out  any  insects  that  may  have  found 
their  way  into  the  flowerets.  If  the  head  is  to  be  cooked 
whole,  tie  it  in  a  cheesecloth  to  prevent  breaking.  Boil  in 
salted  water  until  tender,  about  twenty  minutes,  taking  care 
not  to  cook  longer  than  necessary.  Drain,  and  serve  with 
melted  butter. 

CREAMED  CAULIFLOWER 

I    medium-sized   head   of   cauli-     i  cup  white  sauce 
flower 
Prepare  and  cook  the  cauliflower  as  for  buttered  cauli- 
flower.    Prepare  one  cup  of  white  sauce,  using  for  the  liquid 


140  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

milk  only.  Separate  flowerets,  and  mix  the  cauliflower  with 
the  sauce.  Cook  about  five  minutes  or  until  the  cauliflower 
is  thoroughly  seasoned  with  the  sauce. 

SCALLOPED  CAULIFLOWER 

Remove  the  leaves,  separate  the  flowers,  and  soak  in  a  pan 
of  cold  salted  water  half  an  hour.  Put  in  a  saucepan  of  boil- 
ing salted  water  and  cook  with  the  lid  partly  off  for  twenty 
minutes,  boiling  gently  all  the  time;  drain  and  put  a  layer 
of  boiled  cauliflower  in  a  baking  dish,  cover  with  a  white 
sauce  and  bread  crumbs,  then  another  layer  of  cauliflower, 
and  one  of  white  sauce,  making  the  last  layer  of  buttered 
bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  twenty  minutes  until 
nicely  browned. 

CAULIFLOWER  AND  TOMATO 

I  cauliflower  3  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

3  tomatoes  I  ounce  of  bread  crumbs 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Cook  the  cauliflower  until  tender,  then  pass  it  through  a 
coarse  sieve  with  the  tomatoes,  which  have  been  previously 
skinned,  mix  in  the  melted  butter,  and  add  the  cheese  and 
pepper.  Stir  very  lightly,  and  put  into  a  buttered  baking 
dish.  Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  from  twenty 
minutes  to  half  an  hour. 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN 

I  large  cauliflower  i  tablespoon  flour 

I  ounce  brown  bread  crumbs  i  gill  milk 

I  ounce  butter  3  ounces  grated  cheese 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Clean,  and  partly  boil  the  cauliflower,  and  drain  it  well. 
Make  a  sauce  as  follows:  Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
stir  in  the  flour,  pour  the  milk  in,  and  let  it  boil  for  ten  min- 
utes, stirring  all  the  time;  then  add  the  cheese  and  pepper. 


VEGETABLES  141 

Pour  this  sauce  over  the  cauliflower,  broken  into  flowerets, 
sprinkle  the  bread  crumbs  on  top,  and  put  into  a  Dutdi 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  until  browned  all  over.  It  must 
be  served  very  hot. 

CAULIFLOWER  CURRIED 

A  medium-sized  cauliflower  J^  pint  brown  sauce 

Curry  powder 

Prepare  the  cauliflower  exactly  as  in  the  following  recipe, 
but  it  should  be  divided  into  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  large 
walnut.  When  the  cauliflower  is  tender  and  well  drained, 
■place  it  in  a  saucepan,  and  pour  over  it  the  sauce  in  which 
a  teaspoon  of  curry  powder  has  been  well  mixed.  Let  it 
stand  for  ten  minutes,  where  it  will  not  boil,  but  will  keep 
very  hot.  The  sauce  must  be  made  according  to  the  recipe 
for  brown  sauce,  but  a  little  more  thickening  must  be  added. 
More  or  less  curry  powder  can  be  added,  but  this  quantity 
will  suit  ordinary  tastes. 

Serve  with  boiled  rice. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  PARMESAN  CHEESE 

A  small  cauliflower  %.  pint  plain  white  sauce 

2  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Trim  all  the  green  from  the  cauliflower,  wash  it  well, 
and  cut  the  stalk  so  that  it  will  stand  firmly  on  a  baking  dish. 
Place  it  in  a  little  vinegar  and  water  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  to  draw  out  the  insects;  then  put  it  into  boiling  water 
with  a  little  salt.  It  will  take  about  twenty  minutes  to  boil. 
Try  the  stalk  to  see  whether  it  is  tender;  it  must  not  be 
broken. 

Drain  It  veryi  carefully,  and  place  in  baking  dish ;  a  French 
fire-proof  dish  is  the  best,  as  the  cauliflower  can  be  sent  to 
table  in  it. 

Make  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  sauce  from  recipe  for  white 
sauce.     Pour   this   carefully   over    the    cauliflower;    theR 


142  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

sprinkle  the  Parmesan  cheese  over  the  sauce,  and  brown  it 
in  a  hot  oven.     Serve  immediately. 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  MAITRE  D'HOTEL 

1  ounce  of  butter  i  ounce  bread  crumbs 

I  cauliflower 

Cook  the  cauliflower  first,  and  pick  out  all  the  white 
pieces,  and  sprinkle  them  with  bread  crumbs,  and  put  over 
them  pieces  of  butter.     Pour  the  following  sauce  over: 

2  ounces  grated  cheese  i  pint  of  milk 

I  ounce  butter  i  tablespoon  flour 

I  teaspoon  salt 

SAVORY  CAULIFLOWER 

1  cauliflower  i  onion,  carrot  and  a  little  sliced 

2  ounces  butter  celery 
Small  bunch  sweet  herbs                  i  tablespoon  flour 

Fry  the  onion,  carrot,  celery  and  herbs  all  together  in  the 
butter.  When  nicely  browned,  shake  in  the  flour,  pour  on 
a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stirring  it  well  all  the  time,  and  let 
it  cook  gently  for  half  an  hour;  then  pass  it  through  a  hair 
sieve.  Boil  the  cauliflower  separately  until  well  cooked, 
drain  it,  and  pour  the  above  sauce  over.  Put  in  the  oven  a 
few  minutes,  and  serve  very  hot. 

CELERY 

Wash  the  celery  thoroughly,  cut  off  the  roots  and  leaves, 
separate  the  stalks,  and  put  in  cold  water  for  fifteen  min- 
utes; by  adding  a  slice  of  lemon  to  the  water  celery  is  kept 
white  and  made  crisp.  Only  the  inner  stalks  should  be 
eaten  raw. 

STEWED  CELERY 

Wash  and  scrape  the  celery.  Cut  in  one-half  inch  pieces, 
and  cook  uncovered  in  boiling,  salted  water  twenty-five  min- 
utes.    Serve  with  cream  poured  over  it  seasoned  with  salt 


VEGETABLES  143 

and  pepper.     Sauce  can  be  made  by  using  milk  and  part 
water  in  which  the  celery  was  cooked  thickened  with  flour. 

CELERY  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE 

Cut  the  celery  into  inch  pieces  and  boil  in  salted  water 
for  ten  minutes.  Drain  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  sauces 
made  as  follows: 

Take  two  tablespoons  each  of  butter  and  flour,  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  one-quarter  teaspoon  pepper  and  cook  until  the 
flour  is  a  rich  brown,  add  enough  water  to  make  a  thin  sauce 
and  in  this  put  the  celery  and  cook  slowly  for  twenty  min- 
utes. 

CELERY  AND  CHEESE 

2  cups  of  celery  cut  in  J^-inch     i  tablespoon  butter 

pieces  i  cup  Parmesan  cheese 

I  bay  leaf  i  cup  of  buttered  crumbs 

1  tablespoon  flour  i  pint  of  cream  or  milk 

Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  the  celery  in  the  milk  for  half  an  hour,  then  drain. 
Make  a  sauce  with  the  flour,  butter,  the  milk  the  celery  was 
boiled  in,  the  bay  leaf  and  the  seasoning.  When  well 
cooked  remove  the  bay  leaf  and  add  the  cheese.  Put  into 
a  buttered  baking  dish  the  boiled  celery,  then  CGver  well 
with  the  sauce,  sprinkle  over  the  buttered  crumbs,  and  set 
in  the  oven  to  brown. 

CELERY  CROQUETTES 

2  or  3  heads  of  celery,  according     i  pint  of  milk 

to  size  2  tablespoons  cream 

2  bay  leaves  Pepper,  powdered  mace  and  salt 

Trim  and  wash  the  celery,  and  cut  it  into  short  lengths. 
Then  pour  some  boiling  water  on,  and  let  it  stand  for  ten 
minutes.  Put  the  milk  into  a  saucepan  with  the  bay  leaves, 
mace  and  pepper,  and  then  add  the  celery  to  this,  letting  it 
cook  until  tender.     iWhen  tender  drain,  and  cut  it  into  small 


144  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

pieces.  Melt  a  teaspoon  of  butter  In  a  saucepan,  and  stir 
in  an  ounce  of  flour;  when  well  mixed,  add  a  gill  of  milk. 
Stir  till  it  boils,  and  put  in  the  chopped  celery.  Cook  for 
about  fifteen  minutes,  adding  a  little  pepper  and  a  little 
cream.  Spread  the  mixture  on  a  dish,  and  let  it  get  cold.' 
Make  up  into  croquettes,  roll  them  in  rusk  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  boiling  oil  to  a  golden  color.  Drain  well  on  a  cloth  or 
paper,  and  serve  hot. 

CELERY  AU  GRATIN 

4  heads  of  celery,  white  part  only     i  pint  milk 

2  tablespoons    grated    Parmesan     i  tablespoon  flour 

cheese  i  tablespoon  butter 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

Cook  the  celery  in  the  milk  for  half  an  hour,  salt,  and 
then  drain  and  cut  In  three-inch  lengths;  make  a  sauce  with 
the  flour,  butter,  and  the  milk  the  celery  was  boiled  In,  and 
then  add  the  cheese;  mix  well,  butter  a  baking  dish,  put  In 
a  layer  of  celery  and  then  a  layer  of  sauce  till  the  dish  Is 
full.  Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  on  the  top,  and  add  bits  of 
butter.  Put  In  the  oven  to  brown.  Cook  about  half  an 
hour. 

CELERY  AND  MACARONI  STEW 

3  heads  of  white  celery  ij^!  gills  Bechamel  sauce 
I  pint  of  milk  and  water                Little  pepper  and  salt 

I  bay  leaf  2  ounces  macaroni 

'   A  grate  of  nutmeg 

Trim  and  wash  the  celery,  and  boil  it  till  tender  with  the 
bay  leaf  in  the  milk  and  water.  Drain,  and  cut  Into  short 
lengths.  Cook  the  macaroni  in  boiling  water;  drain,  and 
cut  into  short  lengths  also.  Heat  up  the  sauce,  and  add 
the  celery  and  macaroni,  with  the  seasoning,  and  let  the  whole 
simmer  for  fifteen  minutes.  Do  not  break  the  celery  or 
macaroni,  and  serve  very  hot.  '     ' 


VEGETABLES  i4S 

CELERY  STICKS 
1  head  of  cdery  Pepper,    salt,    mustard,    cayenne 

Yi  a  cream  cheese  and  little  chopped  parsley 

I  ounce  butter 

Clean  the  celery,  and  cut  the  nicest  white  sticks  into  three 
lengths.  Mix  the  butter,  cheese  and  seasoning  together 
and  fill  in  the  concaves  with  the  mixture.  Serve  garnished 
with  parsley. 

CELERIAC 

Pare  the  celeriac,  cut  in  thin  narrow  slices,  and  put  into 
cold  water.  Drain  from  this  water,  and  drop  into  boiling 
water,  and  boil  thirty  minutes.  Drain  and  rinse  with  cold 
water.  The  celeriac  is  now  ready  to  be  prepared  the  same 
as  celery. 

PUREE  OF  CELERIAC 

1  quart  celeriac  cut  in  dice  i  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  i  gill  cream 

I  tablespoon  flour 

Cook  the  celeriac  thirty  minutes  in  boiling  water,  rinse 
in  cold  water,  and  then  pass  through  a  puree  sieve.  Put 
the  butter  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire.  When  hot,  add  the 
flour  and  stir  until  smooth  and  frothy,  and  then  add  the 
strained  celeriac,  and  cook  five  minutes,  stirring  frequently. 
Add  the  salt  and  cream,  and  cook  five  minutes  longer.  If 
the  puree  seems  dry,  add  more  cream.  Serve  very  hot,  on 
toast  or  fried  bread. 

BOILED  CORN  ON  THE  COB 

Free  the  corn  from  the  husks  and  silk.  Have  a  kettle  of 
water  boiling  hard,  drop  the  corn  into  it,  and  cook  ten  min- 
utes. If  only  a  few  ears  of  corn  are  put  in  the  boiling 
water,  the  temperature  of  the  water  is  not  lowered  greatly, 
and  the  corn  will  cook  in  eight  minutes.     On  the  other  hand, 


146  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

If  much  corn  is  put  In,  the  time  of  cooking  must  be  increased. 
Surround  the  corn  with  a  generous  amount  of  boiling  water. 

BAKED  CORN 

Pour  the  corn  into  a  strainer  and  let  cold  water  run 
through  it.  Put  it  in  a  baking  dish,  and  to  one  can  of  corn 
add  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  cream  or  milk, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Mix 
thoroughly.  Put  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  a  brown  crust 
is  formed. 

CORN  FRITTERS 

Cut  through  the  center  of  the  grains  down  each  row  and 
press  out  the  pulp.  To  a  pint  of  pulp,  add  one  tablespoon 
of  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  pinch  of  pepper  and  enough 
flour  to  bind  it.  Mold  into  small  cakes,  and  saute  in  but- 
ter; or  drop  by  the  spoonful  into  hot  oil. 

CREAMED  CORN 

I  can  corn  i  tablespoon  butter 

I  tablespoon  flour  %  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  milk 

Heat  the  corn.  Rub  together  the  salt,  butter  and  flour, 
add  a  little  of  the  warm  milk,  then  the  remainder.  Cook 
the  sauce  in  a  double  boiler  ten  minutes,  add  to  the  corn, 
reheat,  and  serve. 

SCALLOPED  CORN 

%  cup  butter  i  pint    fresh    com    or    drained 

J4  cup  flour  canned  corn 

J4  teaspoon  salt  i  cup  bread  crumbs 

I  tablespoon  sugar  J^  cup  cream 

i/^,  cups  hot  milk 
Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.     Mix  the  butter  and 
flour  together,  and  add  the  hot  milk,  stirring  meanwhile. 
Then  add  the  fresh  cut  corn,  salt  and  sugar.     Bring  to  the 


VEGETABLES  147 

boiling  point,  and  turn  into  baking  dish.  Cover  the  top 
with  the  bread  crumbs,  moistened  slightly  with  the  cream, 
and  bake  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  A  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter may  be  used  instead  of  the  cream. 

SUCCOTASH 

I  pint  cooked  lima  beans  ij/z.  tablespoons  butter 

I  cup  stewed  or  canned  com  !J4  teaspoon  salt 

To  prepare  the  beans,  take  four-fifths  of  a  cup  of  dried 
lima  beans,  soak  an  hour  or  more  in  cold  water ;  drain,  and 
add  one  quart  hot  water.  Cook  until  almost  tender.  Add 
the  salt,  and  finish  cooking.  Allow  the  liquid  to  evaporate 
before  removing  from  the  stove.  Add  the  corn,  butter  and 
salt.     Reheat,  and  serve. 

CREAMED  JAPANESE  CROSNES 

I  quart  crosnes  3  tablespoons  butter 

I  pint  milk  3  tablespoons  flour 

I  teaspoon  salt 

Cleanse  the  crosnes  thoroughly  by  scrubbing  with  a  vege- 
table brush,  plunge  them  into  boiling,  salted  water,  and  boil 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Drain,  and  prepare 
a  white  sauce  of  the  milk,  butter,  flour  and  salt.  Turn  the 
sauce  over  the  crosnes,  and  cook  two  or  three  minutes. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS 
Stew  pared  cucumbers,  cut  in  quarters  or  thick  slices,  for 
fifteen  minutes  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  water  and  a 
minced  shallot  or  a  small  minced  onion.  Pour  off  the  onion. 
Pour  off  the  water,  stir  in  a  little  flour,  milk,  butter  and 
salt.     Heat  for  two  or  three  minutes,  and  serve. 

CUCUMBER  SAUTf 

Boil  pared  and  quartered  cucumbers  for  three  minutes 
only.     Then  drain  the  pieces,  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 


148  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

per.  Roll  In  flour,  and  cook  in  a  saucepan  with  butter  for 
twenty  minutes.  This  dish  may  be  varied  by  adding  minced 
parsley,  chives  and  chervil  about  five  minutes  before  the  cook- 
ing is  finished. 

CUCUMBERS  STEWED  WITH  ONIONS 

A  moderate-sized  cucumber  A  dessertspoon  of  white  roux  or 

J^,    the    cucumber's    weight  in  a  teaspoon  of  cornflour 

onions  I  ounce  of  butter 

J/2  pint  milk  Pepper  and  salt 

Peel  the  cucumber  and  cut  it  into  halves  lengthwise,  and 
again  into  pieces  about  two  inches  long.  Peel,  and  slice 
the  onions,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water,  bring  them 
quickly  to  the  boiling  point;  boil  for  one  minute;  then  drain. 
Now  put  the  cucumber  with  the  scalded  onions,  and  in  a 
saucepan  with  the  milk  and  a  little  pepper,  and  let  them  boil, 
and  then  stew  gently  for  half  an  hour.  Thicken  with  either 
the  white  roux  or  the  cornflour.  Serve  very  hot  with  crou- 
tons or  pieces  of  toast. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS 

4  rather  large  cucumbers  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

I  tomato  2  cups  boiled  or  steamed  rice 

I  tablespoon  chopped  onion  i  teaspoon  salt 

Peel  the  cucumbers,  and  cut  Into  halves,  removing  the 
seeds  and  some  of  the  pulp.  Peel  the  tomato,  and  cut  into 
small  pieces.  Mix  with  the  chopped  onion,  add  the  cooked 
rice,  salt  and  butter.  Fill  the  hilf  cucumbers  with  the  mix- 
ture, and  bake  covered  until  the  latter  are  tender,  or  about 
forty-five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Remove  the  cover  for 
the  last  part  of  the  baking. 

CUCUMBERS  WITH  TOMATOES 

Prepare  the  tomatoes  as  for  scalloped  tomatoes,  adding 
%o  each  layer  of  tomatoes  slices  of  cucumbers.     Season  well. 


VEGETABLES  149 

DANDELION 

Wash  thoroughly,  cut  off  the  roots,  drain,  put  in  a  stew- 
pan  and  boil  one  hour  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water. 
Drain  again,  chop  fine,  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  serve  with  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. 

SCALLOPED  DASHEEN 

4  medium-sized  dasheen  i  tablespoon  flour 

I  cup  milk  I  tablespoon  cracker  crumbs 

i^  tablespoons  butter  i  teaspoon  salt 

Wash  and  scrub  the  dasheen,  boil,  and  slice.  Butter  a 
baking  dish,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  sliced  dasheen,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  flour,  and  dot  with  butter.  Add  another  layer 
of  dasheen  and  the  other  ingredients,  finishing  with  the  flour 
and  butter  on  top.  Pour  on  the  milk,  and  sprinkle  cracker 
crumbs  or  toasted  bread  crumbs  on  the  top,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  one-half  hour.  The  quantity  of  milk 
and  butter  will  vary  according  to  the  size  of  the  dasheen. 

SLICED  DASHEEN  IN  CREAM 

Scrub  the  dasheen  tubers  clean,  peel,  and  slice.  Arrange 
in  ramekin  dishes  or  individual  bakers  in  layers,  sprinkling 
salt  between  each  layer.  Fill  the  dishes  with  a  mixture 
of  one-third  cream  and  two-thirds  milk.  Plg,ce  in  the  oven, 
and  bake  until  the  dasheens  are  tender,  which  will  require 
about  thirty  minutes. 

FRIED  EGG  PLANT 

Pare  and  cut  egg  plant  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick. 
Sprinkle  the  slices  with  salt  and  pile  them  upon  one  another ; 
put  a  plate  with  weight  on  top  of  the  slices.  Let  it  rest  for 
an  hour,  then  remove.  Dust  the  slices  with  pepper  and  salt, 
cover  with  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  oil  or  vegeWble 
fat.     Drain  on  paper  and  serve  very  hot. 


15.0  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

BROILED  EGG  PLANT 

Pare  and  slice  the  egg  plant,  then  spread  the  slices  on 
a  dish,  season  with  pepper,  and  baste  with  salad  oil,  sprinkle 
with  dried  bread  crumbs,  and  broil. 

CREAMED  EGG  PLANT 

I  quart  diced  egg  plant  a  tablespoons  butter 

I  pint  water  2  tablespoons  flour 

I  cup  milk  I  teaspoon  salt 

J4  teaspoon  celery  salt 
Peel  the  egg  plant,  and  cut  into  three-quarter  inch  cubes. 
Cook  in  boiling,  salted  water.  When  tender,  drain  off  the 
liquid.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  milk,  flour,  butter,  celery 
salt  and  one-half  the  salt.  Mix  the  egg  plant  with  the  white 
sauce,  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 

STUFFED  EGG  PLANT 

Select  a  firm,  unspotted  egg  plant.  Boil  in  salted  water 
fifteen  minutes,  turning  frequently  to  insure  even  cooking. 

Remove  the  top  and  the  pulp  by  the  aid  of  a  knife  and 
spoon  or  cut  in  halves.  Leave  about  one-third  of  an  inch 
thickness  next  to  the  skin.  Put  one  tablespoon  butter,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-half  of  a  small  onion  thinly  sliced 
in  a  double  boiler.  Cook  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Then  add 
one  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  and  mix  with  the  butter  and 
onions.  Chop  the  pulp,  and  add  the  buttered  crumbs.  Add 
one  to  two  tablespoons  water.  Refill  the  egg  plant,  and 
bake  in  the  oven  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes. 

BAKED  EGG  PLANT 

I  quart  diced  egg  plant  2  tablespoons  butter 

I  cup  milk  2  cups  bread  crumbs 

Yz.  teaspoon  salt 

Peel  the  egg  plant,  and  cut  in  three-quarter  inch  cubes. 
Soak  in  cold  water,  to  which  one  tablespoon  of  salt  to  one 


VEGETABLES  151 

quart  of  water  has  been  added.  Soak  one-half  hour  or 
^more.  Cook  In  boiling,  salted  water.  When  tender,  drain, 
add  salt  and  milk,  and  pour  over  the  egg  plant.  Melt  the 
butter,  and  stir  in  the  crumbs.  Add  the  buttered  crumbs, 
and  bake  in  an  oiled  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  until  set. 

KALE 

Remove  all  the  old  leaves.  Wash  thoroughly,  and  drain. 
Then  cook  in  a  kettle  of  .boiling  water  to  which  has  been 
added  salt  in  the  proportion  of  one  tablespoon  to  four  quarts 
of  water.  Boil  rapidly  with  the  cover  off  until  tender. 
Pour  off  the  water,  and  chop  the  kale  fine,  then  put  back 
in  the  kettle,  and  add  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  two  of 
water  for  each  pint  of  minced  vegetable.  Add  more  salt 
if  required.  Cook  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  at  once.  The 
time  required  for  cooking  the  kale  varies  from  thirty  to 
fifty  minutes. 

SEA  KALE 

The  young  shoots  are  cooked  in  the  same  way  as  aspara- 
gus.    The  flower  heads  may  be  cooked  like  cauliflower. 

SCALLOPED  SEA  KALE 

Cold  boiled  sea  kale  Butter 

Bread  crumbs  Pepper  and  salt 

When  any  sea  kale  is  left,  it  can  be  cut  into  inch  lengths 
and  put  into  buttered  scallop  shells,  with  any  remaining 
sauce  and  seasoning.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs;  put  bits 
of  butter  over  the  top,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  min- 
utes. 

BOILED  KOHL-RABI 

Wash  and  pare  young  kohl-rabi,  using  vegetables  of 
not  more  than  two  or  three  inches  diameter.  Cut  in  thin 
slices,  put  into  slightly  salted  boiling  water,  and  boil  with 
the  cover  partially  off  the  saucepan,  until  the  vegetable  is 


152  MEATLESS  COOKERY, 

tender,  about  thirty  to  fifty  minutes.     Pour  off  the  water, 
and  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

LENTILS 

Lentils  may  be  cooked  in  purees,  soups,  etc.,  like  dried 
beans. 

BAKED  LENTILS 

1  pint  lentils-  J^  tablespoon  mint 

2  quarts  cold  water  i  tablespoon  thyme 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  2  tablespoons  summer  savory 

2  small  onions  l  teaspoon  sage 

4  whole  cloves  4  tablespoons  chopped  parsley 

lyi  teaspoons  salt  3  tablespoons  butter 

Wash  the  lentils,  and  soak  several  hours.  Cook  the  len- 
tils with  the  herbs,  onions  and  cloves  tied  in  a  bag,  until  the 
water  is  absorbed,  and  the  lentils  are  soft  but  retain  their 
shape.  Then  remove  the  bag  of  seasoning,  add  three  table- 
spoons butter  and  the  salt,  and  put  the  lentils  into  a  buttered 
dish.  Bake  a  half  hour  in  the  oven.  Garnish  with  parsley, 
and  serve. 

LENTIL  AND  POTATO  LOAF 

i^  cup?  lentil  puree  i  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  J^  teaspoon  sage 

J4  cup  cream  2  cups  riced  potato 

I  tablespoon  butter 

To  prepare  the  lentil,  soak  one  cup'  of  raw  lentils  over 
night.  Then  cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender,  which  will 
usually  require  an  hour  or  more.  When  almost  done,  allow 
the  water  to  evaporate  until  the  lentils  are  quite  dry.  Put 
them  through  a  colander  to  form  a  puree.  Then  mix  with 
the  puree  the  butter,  cream,  salt  and  sage.  To  prepare  the 
potatoes,  peel  and  cook  two  or  three  medium  sized  potatoes 
in  boiling,  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain,  and  dry  by 
shaking  gently  over  the  flame.     Force  through  a  ricer  or 


VEGETABLES  153 

colander,  season  with  butter,  and  if  necessary,  additional 
salt.  Place  the  lentil  mixture  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered 
baking  dish  or  pan,  and  on  top  of  this  place  a  layer  of  the 
mashed  potato.  Brush  the  top  with  a  little  cream  or  melted 
butter,  and  bake  until  nicely  browned. 

STEWED  LETTUCE 
Trim  away  all  the  outer  leaves  and  the  stalks  and  boil 
four  heads  of  lettuce  in  salt  and  water  for  twenty  minutes. 
Then  put  them  in  cold  water,  drain,  and  chop  lightly.  Now 
put  into  a  saucepan  with  two  tablespoons  of  cream,  one 
tablespoon  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  flour,  pepper  and  salt 
and  one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice.  Serve  with  a  border 
of  well  seasoned  mashed  potatoes. 

BOILED  LETTUCE 

Wash  four  or  five  heads  of  lettuce,  carefully  removing 
thick,  bitter  stalks  and  retaining  all  sound  leaves.  Cook  in 
plenty  of  boiling,  salted  water  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes; 
then  blanch  in  cold  water  for  a  minute  or  two.  Drain, 
chop  lightly,  and  heat  in  a  saucepan  with  some  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  If  preferred  the  chopped  lettuce  can 
be  heated  with  a  pint  of  white  sauce,  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper  and  grated  nutmeg. 

OKRA 

Boil  young  pods  of  okra  in  boiling  salted  water  until 
tender,  about  twenty  minutes.  Drain  and  heat  for  five 
minutes  with  a  scant  cup  of  cream,  a  tablespoon  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper. 

OKRA  AND  TOMATOES 

1  quart  okra  i  tablespoon  butter 

6  large  tomatoes  i  teaspoon  salt 

or  yi.  small  onion 

I  pint  can  tomatoes  Water 


154  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Wash  and  remove  the  stem  eniis  of  the  okra  pods,  cut 
into  thin  slices.  Peel  the  tomatoes,  and  press  out  the  seeds. 
Cut  into  small  pieces,  add  sliced  onion,  salt,  and  sufficient 
water  to  almost  cover.  Cook  thirty  minutes.  Add  the 
butter. 

BOILED  ONIONS 

Cover  the  onions  with  cold  water,  and  peel  them  with  a 
sharp  knife  while  under  water.  Put  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
generously  with  boiling  salted  water,  and  boil  rapidly  for 
ten  minutes;  drain,  cover  with  fresh  boiling,  salted  water 
and  simmer  for  forty  minutes.  Drain  again,  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  melted  butter. 

SCALLOPED  ONIONS 

Place  boiled  onions  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  over  them  a  rich 
white  sauce,  sprinkle  with  buttered  cracker  or  bread  crumbs, 
and  bake  until  the  crumbs  are  nicely  browned. 

CREAMED  ONIONS 

1  quart  onions  1^3  cups  water  in  which  the 
a  tablespoons  butter  onions  are  boiled 

2  tablespoons  flour  j4  teaspoon  salt 

Peel  the  onions  under  cold  water,  and  cook  in  boiling, 
salted  water.  Boil  five  minutes,  drain,  and  again  cover  with 
boiling,  salted  water.  Cook  uncovered  until  tender,  taking 
care  not  to  boil  so  rapidly  that  the  onions  are  broken. 
Drain,  and  reserve  one  and  one-third  cups  of  the  water 
with  which  to  make  the  dressing.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour 
together,  and  stir  into  it  the  warm  licjaid.  Add  additional 
salt  if  desired.  Turn  this  dressing  ov^r  the  onions,  and 
reheat  a  few  minutes. 

YOUNG  ONIONS  IN  CREAM 

Procure  tender,  young  onions  or  scullions  in  as  fresh  con- 
dition as  possible.     Cut  off  the  tops,  leaving  about  one  inch 


VEGETABLES  155, 

of  the  green.  Remove  the  outer  skin  of  the  onion,  and  cut 
off  the  root  end.  Cut  into  half-inch  lengths,  and  prepare 
and  serve  the  same  as  asparagus  in  cream. 

STEWED  ONIONS 

I  quart  onions  2  tablespoons  butter 

^  cup  milk  J4  teaspoon  salt 

Peel  the  onions  under  cold  water,  cook  in  boiling,  salted 
water,  changing  the  water  at  the  end  of  five  minutes,  and 
again  at  the  end  of  ten  to  remove  the  strong  flavor.  Cook 
uncovered  until  tender.  Drain,  add  milk  and  butter,  and 
cook  fifteen  minutes. 

BAKED  ONIONS 

6  medium-sized  onions  i  teaspoon  salt 

I  tablespoon  butter 
Peel  the  onions,  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water.  Boil 
five  minutes,  drain,  and  again  cover  with  boiling,  salted 
water.  Cook  uncovered  until  tender,  taking  care  not  to  boil 
so  rapidly  that  the  onions  are  broken.  Drain,  and  place 
on  a  buttered  pan,  and  brush  with  the  melted  butter.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  until  nicely  browned. 

STUFFED  ONIONS 

Peel  and  parboil  the  desired  number  of  onions.  Remove 
centers  from  the  root  end  with  a  fork.  Soak  stale  bread  in 
cold  water.  Press  to  remove  excess  of  water.  Season  with 
melted  butter,  sage,  salt  and  the  centers  of  the  onions  which 
have  been  thoroughly  chopped.  Fill  the  onions  with  the 
stuffing,  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  each,  and  place  in  the 
oven  to  finish  baking,  and  to  brown. 

BROWNED  SPANISH  ONIONS 
Peel  two  pounds  of  Spanish  onions  under  water;  if  large 
ones  are  used  cut  them  in  half.     Put  them  in  cold,  salted 


156  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

water  and  boil  ten  minutes,  drain  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  cover  and  let  them  cook  for 
from  three  to  four  hours,  turning  once  during  the  cooking. 
Add  more  butter  if  necessary  to  prevent  burning  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  when  cooked.  Take  them  out  care- 
fully and  pour  their  sauce  around  them.  They  should  be  a 
golden  brown. 

BREAD  AND  ONION  PUDDING 

%  pound  bread  crumbs  J^  pint  milk 

1  teaspoon  sage  i  ounce  butter 
^2  pound  onions                               Pepper  and  salt 

Put  the  bread  crumbs  in  a  bowl.  Boil  the  milk,  and  pour 
it  over  them ;  cover  with  a  plate,  and  let  them  stand  for  an 
hour.  Slice  the  onions  —  they  must  be  weighed  after  peel- 
ing. Throw  them  into  cold  water,  and  let  them  come  to  a 
boil  as  quickly  as  possible,  letting  them  boil  fast  for  three 
minutes,  then  drain  the  water  from  them.  Chop  them 
roughly,  and  add  them  to  the  milk  and  crumbs.  Rub  the 
sage  between  the  fingers,  and  put  it  through  a  sieve,  so  that 
there  will  be  no  bits  of  stalk  in  it,  add  it  with  a  seasoning 
of  pepper  to  the  other  ingredients,  melt  the  butter,-  and  mix 
carefully  into  the  pudding.  It  may  be  either  baked  for  an 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven  and  served  in  the  dish  it  was  baked 
in,  or  steamed  for  two  hours  in  a  well  buttered  mold,  and 
turned  out. 

SAGE  AND  ONIONS 

2  pounds  of  onions  2  teaspoons  of  powdered  sage 
2  ounces  of  butter                            Pepper  and  salt 

2  ounces  of  bread  crumbs 

Slice  the  onions,  and  boil  them  until  tender,  then  drain 
and  chop  them,  and  add  the  butter,  bread-crumbs  and  sage. 
The  sage  must  be  rubbed  fine  through  the  fingers,  and  then 
shaken  through  a  sieve  before  it  is  measured,  to  insure  there 


VEGETABLES  157 

being  no  bits  of  stalks  in  it.     Season  the  mixture  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  bake  in  a  baking  dish  for  about  an  hour. 

ONIONS  AU  GRATIN 

5  small  Spanish  onions  i  tablespoon  of  flour 

4  ounces  of  grated  cheese  %.  pint  of  milk  or  cream 

2  ounces  butter  ■  Pepper  and  salt 

Use  onions  as  near  in  size  as  possible,  and  pour  boiling 
water  on  them  in  a  saucepan,  and  allow  to  simmer  for  one 
hour.  Drain  them  well,  and  put  them  into  another  clean 
saucepan,  and  pour  the  following  sauce  over:  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  sprinkle  in  the  flour,  stirring  all  the 
time,  and  then  add  the  milk  slowly,  and  let  it  boil  five  min- 
utes; add  the  grated  cheese,  and  seasoning,  and  pour  over 
the  onions;  cover  closely  and  cook  gently  for  half  an  hour. 
Serve  with  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

ONIONS  BAKED  WITH  GRATED  CHEESE 

2  pounds  of  onions  2  ounces  of  grated  cheese 

2  ounces  of  butter  Pepper  and  salt 

Peel  and  slice  the  onions ;  the  slices  should  be  about  half 
an  inch  thick.  Throw  them  into  plenty  of  cold,  salted 
water,  and  bring  them  quickly  to  the  boiling  point;  skim 
them,  and  let  them  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Drain  them 
carefully,  and  put  them  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  add  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  break  the  remainder  of  the  butter 
in  bits,  and  place  it  over  the  onions.  Put  them  in  a  hot  oven 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Now  remove  the  dish  from  the 
oven,  and  sprinkle  the  grated  cheese  over  the  onions  —  do 
this  very  quickly  —  return  to  the  oven  until  the  cheese  is 
mell:ed  and  slightly  browned,  which  should  be  in  ten  min- 
utes or  less.     Serve  immediately. 

The  white  onions  are  the  most  delicate  and  are  therefore 
more  suitable  as  a  vegetable  thaii  the  yellow  or  red  variety. 


158  MEATLESS  COOKERYi 

ONIONS  AND  TOMATOES 

I  pound  of  onions  J4,  ounce  butter 

Yi  pound  tomatoes  2  ounces  bread  crumbs 

Pepper  and  salt 

Prepare  the  onions  as  in  recipe,  "  Onions  Baked  With 
Grated  Cheese."  Put  the  tomatoes  in  fast  boiling  water 
for  a  few  seconds,  when  the  skin  can  be  removed  easily. 
Slice  them.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  and  put  a  layer  of  the 
onions  at  the  bottom.  Now  place  the  tomatoes  over  them, 
and  put  the  remainder  of  the  onions  on  the  top.  Dust  a 
very  little  pepper  and  salt  over  each  layer. 

Cover  the  onions  with  the  bread  crumbs,  and  break  up  the 
remainder  of  the  butter,  and  place  it  over  the  dish.  Bake 
for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 

VEGETABLE  OYSTERS 
Select  rather  large,  firm  salsify,  or  vegetable  oyster,  and 
scrape,  throwing  at  once  into  cold  water  to  which  has  been 
added  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  a  few  drops  of  vinegar. 
This  forms  a  slight  coating  over  the  vegetables,  and  pre- 
vents discoloration.  Slice,  and  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water 
until  tender,  which  will  require  about  one  hour.  Drain, 
and  add  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
one  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  one  teaspoon  of  minced  pars- 
ley or  chervil,  to  each  quart  of  the  sliced  salsify. 

FRIED  OYSTER  PLANT 

Prepare,  and  boil  the  oyster  plant  until  tender,  about 
thirty  minutes.  Then  mash,  season,  and  stir  in  a  tablespoon 
of  flour.  Form  into  small  cakes,  and  saute  in  butter,  brown- 
ing both  sides. 

SCALLOPED  VEGETABLE  OYSTERS 

I   quart  sliced,  cooked  vegetable     2  cups  white  sauce 
oysters  or  salsify  2  cups  bread  crumbs 


lVEGETABLES  159 

To  prepare  the  vegetable  oysters,  scrape,  and  throw  into 
water  into  which  a  little  flour  and  vinegar  has  been  stirred 
to  prevent  discoloration ;  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  until 
tender,  which  swill  require  an  hour  or  more.  Drain,  and 
make  a  white  sauce.  Arrange  the  vegetable  oysters  and 
bread  crumbs  in  layers,  reserving  a  portion  of  the  bread 
crumbs  for  the  top.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  vegetable  oys- 
ters and  crumbs,  and  finish  with  a  layer  of  crumbs.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  This  may  also 
be  baked  in  individual  shells. 

PARSNIPS 

Wash  the  parsnips,  boil  from  35  to  45  minutes,  put  them 
in  cold  water,  scrape  off  the  skins.  Now  cut  in  slices  length- 
wise, one-half  of  an  inch  thick.  Season  with  salt  and  but- 
ter. Dip  in  flour,  and  saute  on  both  sides  until  evenly 
browned.  Or  chop  the  boiled  parsnips,  put  into  a  saucepan 
with  hot  milk,  beat  together  i  teaspdon  of  flour  and  one 
tablespoon  of  butter.  Stir  into  the  parsnips  and  milk.  Sim- 
mer for  ten  minutes.  Or  mash  the  boiled  parsnips,  add  i 
teaspoon  of  butter,  J4  teaspoon  of  salt,  i  tablespoon  of 
flour,  form  into  cakes  and  saute  In  butter. 

CREAMED  PARSNIPS 

1  pint  chopped  parsnips  y^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  i  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Clean,  and  scrape  the  parsnips,  and  split  lengthwise  twice; 
then  cut  into  one-inch  pieces.  Boil  in  salted  water  —  one- 
half  teaspoon  to  the  pint  —  until  tender,  which  will  require 
one  to  two  hours  if  old  or  forty-five  minutes  if  young.  Make 
a  white  sauce  of  the  remaining  ingredients.  Mix  the  white 
sauce  with  the  cooked  parsnips,  from  which  the  liquid  has 
been  drained,  reheat,  and  serve. 


i6o  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS 

Parsnips  Batter  Pepper  and  salt 

Wash,  and  scrape  the  parsnips,  and  throw  them  into 
plenty  of  boiling  water.  Skim  them  frequently  during  boil- 
ing. They  will  be  tender  in  half  an  hour  to  an  hour,  ac- 
cording to  age  and  size.  Moderate  sized  parsnips  are  most 
suitable  for  this  dish.  When  they  are  quite  tender,  slice 
them  either  round  or  lengthwise,  and  dip  them  into  frying 
batter.  The  batter  may  be  seasoned  if  liked.  Fry  them  in 
salad  oil. 

SCALLOPED  PARSNIPS 

A  breakfast  cup  of  mashed  pars-     4  ounces  bread  crumbs 

nips  Pepper  and  salt 

1  ounce  of  butter 

Boil  the  parsnips  as  In'  the  preceding  recipe,  and  when 
quite  tender  drain  them  well,  and  rub  them  through  a  sieve. 
Butter  some  scallops  or  one  small  French  baking  dish. 
Throw  in  some  bread  crumbs,  and  shake  out  all  that  do  not 
stick  to  the  butter.  Take  half  the  butter,  and  stir  It  Into 
the  mashed  parsnips ;  If  they  are  not  hot  enough  to  melt  the 
butter,  warm  them  on  the  stove  or  over  the  fire;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  them  either  in  the  scallops  or 
the  little  dish.  Cover  them  with  the  bread  crumbs.  Break 
up  the  remainder  of  the  butter  Into  little  bits,  and  put  over 
the  top.     Brown  In  a  hot  oven. 

GREEN  PEAS 

Secure  as  fresh  from  the  garden  as  possible.  Leave  In 
pods  until  a  short  time  before  cooking.  After  removing 
from  the  pods,  let  stand  in  cold  water  a  few  moments. 
Skim  off  the  immature  peas  which  come  to  the  top,  and  cook 
slowly,  uncovered.  In  boiling  water  until  tender,  which  will 
require  from  twenty  minutes  to  one  hour  according  to  the 
age  and  freshness.     Add  salt  about  fifteen  minutes  before 


VEGETABLES  i6i 

removing  from  the  fire.  Let  almost  all  of  the  liquid  evap- 
orate. Add  butter,  allowing  one  tablespoon  to  each  pint  of 
peas.  If  the  peas  lack  sweetness,  add  a  teaspoon  of  sugar 
to  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled.  A  sprig  of  mint  may 
be  added  also. 

CREAMED  PEAS 

In  a  saucepan  put  one  quart  of  shelled  peas  and  add  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  generously.  Place  over  a  hot  fire 
and  when  they  begin  to  boil  draw  back  where  the  water  will 
bubble  gently.  Leave  the  cover  partly  off.  When  soft  add 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoons of  cream  and  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  until  well 
blended  and  serve  hot. 

Creamed  peas  in  croustades  of  bread  is  an  attractive 
dish. 

PEAS  AND  POTATOES 

I  pint  shelled  peas  2  tablespoons  butter 

I  pint  new  potatoes  2  tablespoons  flour 

Ij^  cups  milk  '  I  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  the  shelled  peas  the  same  as  for  green  peas.  Scrape 
the  new  potatoes,  and  cook  in  sufficient  boiling,  salted  water 
to  cover.  When  tender,  drain  and  dry  by  shaking  gently 
over  the  flame,  and  add  the  peas.  Prepare  white  sauce  of 
the  milk,  butter,  flour  and  salt,  and  pour  over  the  peas  and 
potatoes.     Cook  a  few  moments  before  serving. 

PEAS  AND  CELERY 

1  pint  canned  or  cooked  peas  2  tablespoons  flour 
3  cups  raw  cut  celery  i  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  butter  i  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  celery  in  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover  until  ten- 
der, which  will  require  about  forty-five  minutes.  Drain  off 
the  liquid,  and  measure  out  one  cup.  Rub  the  flour  and 
butter  together ;  add  a  little  at  a  time  the  water  in  which  the 


1 62  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

celery  was  cooked.     When  all  Is  added,  boil  five  minutes. 
Add  the  cooked  celery  and  peas. 

PEAS  WITH  LETTUCE 

1  quart  peas  i  small  onion 

2  tablespoons  butter  -  i  teaspoon  sugar 
I  head  lettuce  J/2  gill  water 

Put  all  the  ingredients  in  a  saucepan,  using  only  the  heart 
of  the  lettuce,  cover,  and  cook  for  five  minutes,  tossing  the 
vegetables  several  times.  Now  draw  the  pan  back  where 
the  contents  will  simmer  slowly  for  half  an  hour. 

SUGAR  PEAS 

Use  pods  in  which  the  peas  are  very  small.  String  them 
like  beans,  and  cut  in  two  or  three  lengths.  Cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  and  boil  gently  until  tender.  If  they  are  young 
and  fresh  they  will  cook  in  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 
Season  with  salt  and  butter,  and  serve  at  once.  When  the 
peas  are  young,  they  have  an  exquisite  flavor. 

PURI:E  of  PEAS 

Cook  the  peas  slowly  in  boiling  water  until  tender,  then 
press  theni  through  a  strainer.  Return  to  the  saucepan 
and  add  J4  a  cup  of  warm  milk,  i  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  shake 
of  paprika,  i  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  mix  well.  Cook 
for  five  minutes. 

To  use  as  a  green  garnish  press  through  a  pastry  bag  with 
a  tube  having  a  star-shaped  opening,  forming  into  circles 
which  will  look  like  roses. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS 

For  six  medium  sized  peppers,  make  a  dressing  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner:  Soak  in  cold  water  enough  stale  bread  to 
make  one  pint  when  the  water  is  pressed  out.  Season  this 
with  two  teaspoons  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  fine  herbs, 


VEGETABLES  163 

about  one-fifth  of  a  teaspoon  of  sweet  basil  and  summer  sa- 
vory and  two  tablespoons  of  butter.  Cut  off  the  stem  end 
of  the  pepper,  and  remove  the  interior,  being  careful  to  take 
out  every  seed.  Fill  the  peppers  with  the  dressing.  Place 
them  on  end  in  a  shallow  baking  dish,  and  pour  around  them 
a  sauce  prepared  as  follows:  Put  into  a  saucepan  on  the 
fire  one  tablespoon  of  butter;  when  hot,  add  one  tablespoon 
of  flour.  Stir  until  smooth  and  brown,  then  add  gradually 
three  gills  of  water.  Season  with  one  level  teaspoon  of 
salt,  cook  five  minutes,  and  then  pour  around  the  stuffed 
peppers.  '  Put  the  dish  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  and  cook 
one  hour,  basting  often  with  the  sauce  in  the  dish.  Peppers 
may  also  be  filled  with  rice,  tomatoes  or  macaroni. 

BOILED  POTATOES 

Wash  and  scrape  the  skin  from  the  potatoes  with  a  knife 
made  for  this  purpose.  Drop  at  once  into  cold  water  to 
prevent  discoloration.  Let  them  remain  in  water  half  an 
hour.  If  the  potatoes  are  to  be  cooked  in  their  skins,  wash 
them  well  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  a  narrow  band  of 
skin  from  the  center  of  the  potato.  Cover  well  with  boil- 
ing water  and  let  them  boil  with  a  cover  on  for  thirty  min- 
utes. When  the  potatoes  have  boiled  fifteen  minutes  put 
in  the  water  i  tablespoon  of  salt. 

Drain  off  the  water,  and  let  the  potatoes  stand  in  a  warm 
place  that  the  steam  may  escape.  Do  not  serve  in  a  covered 
dish,  as  condensed  steam  causes  the  potatoes  to  become 
soggy. 

STEAMED  POTATOES 

Prepare  potatoes  as  for  boiled  potatoes.  Put  in  small 
strainer,  place  over  kettle  of  boiling  water,  cover  tightly, 
and  cook  until  soft  —  about  thirty  minutes.  Cover  the  pot 
with  a  double  cloth  and  place  on  the  back  of  the  range. 


1 64  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

RICED  POTATOES 

Add  salt  and  butter  to  mashed  potatoes,  and  press  them 
through  a  heated  potato  ricer  into  the  hot  dish  in  which  they 
are  to  be  served. 

Or  add  to  the  hot  mashed  potatoes  i  tablespoon  of 
butter,  Yi  cup  of  milk,  and  i  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  until 
creamy,  using  a  silver  fork.     Pile  lightly  on  serving  dish, 

RICED  POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE 

Mix  with  riced  potatoes  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one 
teaspoon  of  salt,  a  shake  of  paprika,  and  one-half  cup  of 
milk.  Beat  with  a  silver  fork  until  creamy,  and  put  In  a 
baking  dish.  To  one-half  cup  of  cream  add  one-half  cup 
grated  cheese,  and  season  with  paprika  and  salt.  Spread 
over  the  potatoes,  and  put  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes 
until  brown. 

MASHED  POTATOES 

Boil  the  potatoes  and  drain  well  as  it  is  important  that 
they  should  be  very  dry.  Put  them  through  a  sieve  or 
through  a  ricer  and  return  to  the  saucepan.  Beat  in  one 
tablespoon  of  butter,  until  it  is  thoroughly  mixed,  then  add 
half  a  cup  of  milk,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  ,  Beat 
well  and  pile  lightly  on  the  serving  dish.  Serve  immedi- 
ately. Or  the  mashed  potatoes  may  be  put  in  a  baking  dish 
covered  with  bits  of  cheese  and  butter  and  browned  in  the 
oven. 

POTATO  CAKES 

Form  cold  mashed  potatoes  into  cakes  an  inch  thick. 
Roll  them  in  flour,  brush  each  over  with  milk,  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven  five  minutes  or  saute  in  vegetable  fat. 

SURPRISE  BALLS 

Form  mashed  potatoes  into  balls  and  with  a  teaspoon 
make  a  depression  in  the  top  of  each.     Mix  one  cup  of 


VEGETABLES  165 

grated  cheese  with  salt,  celery  salt,  and  butter,  and  put  one 
teaspoon  into  the  hollow  of  each  potato  ball.  Mold  the 
ball  so  that  the  stuffing  is  concealed  and  brown  in  the  oven 
or  saute. 

BAKED  POTATOES 

Select  potatoes  having  a  smooth  surface  and  of  uniform 
size,  and  wash  thoroughly.  Put  them  in  an  old  baking  pan 
kept  for  this  purpose  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  from  forty  to 
fifty  minutes.  When  baked,  break  open  slightly  that  steam 
may  escape,  and  serve  at  once.  Do  not  pierce  with  a  fork 
to  see  if  they  are  soft;  press  with  the  fingers. 

SLICED  POTATOES  IN  CREAM 

4  medium  sized  potatoes  J^  cup  cream 

Yi  Cup  milk  lYz  teaspoons  salt 

Peel  and  boil  the  potatoes  as  for  minced  potatoes.  Add 
the  salt,  milk  and  cream,  and  bake  in  the  oven.  Allow  them 
to  cook  slowly  for  one-half  hour  or  more  until  the  liquid 
becomes  quite  thick. 

POTATOES  AU  GRATIN 

'  4  medium  sized  potatoes  4  tablespoons  flour 

I  cup  bread  crumbs  2  cups  milk 

J4  pound  Neufchatel  cheese  2  tablespoons  toasted  bread 

4  tablespoons  butter  crumbs 

J^  teaspoon  salt 

Boil  the  potatoes,  chop,  and  spread  in  the  bottom  of  a  pan. 
Cover  with  the  grated  cheese  and  a  layer  of  the  bread 
crumbs,  then  pour  over  all  the  white  sauce,  made  as  fol- 
lows: Rub  together  the  flour  and  butter,  add  a  little  hot 
milk,  then  the  remainder  of  the  hot  milk,  and  salt.  Cook 
twenty  minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  When  pouring  the  white 
sauce  over  the  bread  crumbs  and  potato,  see  that  it  permeates 
thoroughly.  Sprinkle  the  toasted  crumbs  over  the  top,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


1 66  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

POTATOES  IN  CREAM  NO.  i 

Prepare  the  potatoes  for  boiling,  then  cut  in  half-inch 
cubes.  Soak  in  cold  water  half  an  hour,  then  cook  in  boil- 
ing, salted  water  until  soft.  Drain  thoroughly.  Make  a 
sauce  of  i  tablespoon  of  butter,  i  tablespoon  of  flour,  finely 
chopped  onion,  i  cup  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Reheat 
the  potatoes  in  the  sauce. 

POTATOES  IN  CREAM  NO.  2 

Peel  and  boil  the  potatoes  and  cool  them.  Put  two  table- 
spoons of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  rub  in  i  tablespoon  of 
flour,  add  i  cup  of  cream,  chopped  chives  and  lemon  juice. 
When  well  cooked,  put  in  the  potatoes  and  let  them  remain 
until  they  are  very  hot.  Then  take  them  out,  put  them  in 
the  center  of  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  around  them. 

POTATOES  IN  CREAM  NO.  3 

Boil  potatoes,  unpeeled,  until  soft,  drain  and  cover  with 
one  thickness  of  cheese  cloth.  This  allows  the  moisture  to 
pass  off.  Cut  in  cubes,  peel  and  put  in  a  saucepan,  adding 
two  tablespoons  of  butter.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  chopped 
parsley  and  paprika.  Cover  with  cream,  and  let  simmer 
for  20  minutes. 

POTATO  BALLS 

With  a  French  potato  scoop  cut  balls  from  peeled,  raw 
potatoes  and  drop  them  into  cold  water.  Cook  for  fifteen 
minutes  until  soft  in  enough  salted  boiling  water  to  cover 
them.  Drain,  cover  with  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth,  and  let 
them  stand  a  few  minutes  to  dry. 

Serve  with  parsley  butter,  made  as  follows: 
Cream  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  one  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoon  of 
chopped  chives,  salt  and  pepper.     Pour  over  the  potato 
balls  and  reheat. 


VEGETABLES  167 

SWISS  POTATOES 

Peel  and  cut  the  potatoes  Into  inch  and  a  half  cubes  or 
balls,  using  potatoes  of  a  uniform  size,  and  drop  in  hot  oil 
until  evenly  browned.  Then  bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a 
slow  oven. 

Cover  with  a  sauce  made  as  follows: 

Stir  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  two  tablespoons  of 
flour,  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  slowly  one  cup  of  cream,  stir- 
ring constantly.  Let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point,  and  sea- 
son with  salt,  paprika  and  chopped  parsley. 

POTATO  PUFFS 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes.  Cut  them  in  slices  an  eighth 
of  an  inch  thick  and  the  length  of  the  potato,  making  the 
slices  as  nearly  of  the  same  size  as  possible.  Put  them  in 
ice  water  for  twenty  minutes,  drain  and  dry  thoroughly  on 
a  soft  cloth.  Cook  them  in  deep  hot  oil  for  a  few  minutes. 
Take  them  out,  allow  the  oil  to  become  smoking  hot,  put 
in  the  slices  again  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown,  when  they  will 
puff  into  balls.  Drain  on  a  paper,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
discard  any  that  do  not  puff.  The  best  results  are  attained 
with  Holland  potatoes. 

SARATOGA  POTATOES 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  with  a  plane  cut  into  slices  about 
an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  Put  them  into  cold  water  for 
a  few  minutes,  then  drain  and  put  them  into  water  contain- 
ing a  piece  of  ice.  When  ready  to  fry,  drain,  dry  them  well 
in  a  soft  cloth,  put  them  in  a  frying-basket,  and  then  into 
smoking  hot  oil.  Fry  to  a  golden  brown  taking  care  that 
they  do  not  burn.  Drain  on  paper,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
serve  at  once.  Uncooked  potatoes  may  be  cut  out  with  an 
apple-corer  or  vegetable  cutter  and  cooked  in  the  same  way. 


1 68  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES  NO.  i 

Cut  the  potatoes  into  dice  and  sprinkle  them  with  pepper. 
Put  two  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  table- 
spoon of  chopped  onion  and  brown  slightly.  Then  put  in 
the  diced  boiled  potatoes,  season  with  salt  and  paprika  and 
cook  until  brown.  Minced  parsley  may  be  added  if  de- 
sired.    Serve  immediately. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES  NO.  2 

3  medium  sized  boiled  potatoes       2  sprigs  parsley 

1  small  onion  2  tablespoons  butter 

J4  teaspoon  salt 

Put  the  butter,  chopped  parsley  and  grated  onion  into 
a  double  boiler.  When  the  butter  is  melted,  slice,  and  add 
the  potatoes,  and  also  the  salt. 

When  thoroughly  heated  through,  serve. 

POTATOES  AND  CELERY  HASH 

2  cups  sliced  cold  potatoes  J^  cup  cut  celery 
J^  teaspoon  salt  i  tablespoon  butter 

Mix  the  potatoes  with  the  finely  cut  celery.  Add  the 
salt  and  the  melted  butter,  stir  together,  place  in  a  hot  oven, 
and  bake  until  browned  on  top ;  stir  the  potatoes,  and  brown 
again.  Repeat  this  two  or  three  times  until  the  potatoes 
have  been  nicely  browned  throughout  and  the  celery  well 
cooked. 

POTATO  AND  ONION  HASH 

2  cups  chopped,  boiled  onions  4  cups  cold  minced  potatoes 

2  teaspoons  salt  4  tablespoons  butter 

Peel  the  onions,  and  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  in  an 
uncovered  vessel  until  tender.  Drain,  and  cut  the  onion 
into  small  pieces.  Mince  cold  boiled  potatoes  by  putting 
them  through  a  food  chopper,  or  slice.  Mix  the  potatoes 
and  onions,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  dot  the  potatoes  with  the 


VEGETABLES  169 

butter.  Cover,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  thoroughly 
heated,  then  uncover  and  brown.  When  browned  on  top, 
stir  the  potatoes  from  the  bottom,  and  brown  again. 

FRIED  POTATOES 
Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  small  pieces,  put  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  two  tablespoons  of  butter  or  vegetable  fat,  one 
tablespoon  of  minced  onion  or  chives,  one  tablespoon  of 
chopped  green  peppers,  salt  and  paprika  to  taste,  and  a  tea- 
spoon of  chopped  parsley.  Cover  the  saucepan,  stirring 
occasionally  and  cook  until  well  blended.     Serve  very  hot. 

SAVORY  POTATOES  NO.  i 

Cut  an  onion  and  two  tomatoes  and  put  them  in  a  well- 
buttered  pie  dish.  Make  the  next  layer  of  potatoes  sliced, 
put  a  layer  of  chopped  peppers  next,  sprinkle  with  small 
sago.  Make  the  top  layer  of  sliced  potatoes,  season  well 
with  salt  and  cayenne  and  dot  well  with  butter. 

Fill  the  dish  with  boiling  water,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
for  three  hours. 

SAVORY  POTATOES  NO.  2 

3  medium  sized  potatoes  i  tablespoon  butter 

Ys  small  onion  i  cup  water 

i^  teaspoons  salt 

Peel  and  slice  the  onion  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pan. 
Then  slice  the  potatoes.  There  should  be  one  pint  of  sliced 
potatoes.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  and  pour  over  the  hoi;  water. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  two  hours  or  more. 

BROWNED  POTATOES 

Boil  potatoes.  Place  them  in  a  shallow  baking  dish,  and 
for  every  half  dozen  medium  sized  potatoes  used,  melt  one 
level  tablespoon  butter,  and  with  a  brush, —  a  small  paint 
brush  Is  most  convenient  for  such  purposes  —  spread  lightly 
over  them.     Put  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  till  a  golden  brown. 


I70  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

HASHED  BROWN  POTATOES 

4  medium  sized  potatoes  2  tablespoons  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  ij^  teaspoons  salt 

Slice  or  chop  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  place  in  a  buttered 
pan.  Add  the  salt,  and  mix  with  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  until  nicely  browned.  Stir,  add 
the  milk,  and  brown  again.  Stir  again,  and  brown  the  third 
time. 

MINCED  POTATOES 

3  medium  sized  potatoes  i  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  cup  cream 

Peel  the  potatoes,  and  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  to 
cover.  When  beginning  to  get  tender,  add  a  cup  of  cold 
water,  and  bring  again  to  the  boiling  point.  When  tender, 
drain,  and  cool.  Cut  into  three-fourth  inch  cubes  or  slices. 
Put  into  a  buttered  pan  and  place  in  the  oven.  When 
thoroughly  heated  and  beginning  to  brown,  pour  over  them 
the  ^ream,  and  stir.  Allow  the  potatoes  to  brown  again, 
and  stir  once  more.  When  browned  again  on  top,  serve. 
One-half  cup  of  milk  —  scant  —  and  one  tablespoon  butter 
may  be  substituted  for  the  cream  if  desired. 

POTATO  BORDER 

Place  a  small  buttered  bowl  on  the  serving  dish,  build 
around  it  a  wall  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  and  garnish  with 
potato  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  Remove  cup, 
fill  potato  border  with  creamed  chestnuts  or  mushrooms,  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES 

6  medium  sized  potatoes  3  cups  milk 

2  teaspoons  salt  5  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 

3  tablespoons  butter  i  small  onion 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Peel,  and  slice  the  potatoes,  and  arrange  a  layer  in  the 


VEGETABLES  171 

bottom  of  a  baking  dish.  Put  a  little  of  the  finely  minced 
onion,  bits  of  butter  and  a  sprinkle  of  salt  over  this.  Dredge 
slightly  with  flour,  and  then  place  another  layer  of  potato, 
and  continue  to  fill  the  dish,  arranging  the  ingredients  in 
the  same  order  as  for  the  first  layer.  Heat  the  milk,  and 
pour  over  the  potatoes.  Over  all  sprinkle  the  dry  or  but- 
tered bread  crumbs,  and  cook  an  hour  or  more  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

STUFFED  POTATOES  NO.  1 

6  medium  sized  potatoes  2  to  3  tablespoons  butter 

J^  to  J4  cup  milk  or  cream  i  teaspoon  salt 

Select  well-shaped  potatoes  of  about  equal  size.  Bake 
until  soft,  then  cut  or  break  the  potato  at  about  the  middle. 
Remove  the  contents,  mash  the  potato,  add  salt,  butter  and 
sufficient  cream  or  milk  to  cause  the  potato  to  beat  up  light. 
When  very  light,  fill  the  skins  with  the  seasoned  potato, 
piling  it  up  in  irregular  shapes.  Set  the  stuffed  potatoes  in 
the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 

STUFFED  POTATOES  NO.  2 

Cut  off  about  one-third  of  a  baked  potato.  Scrape  out 
the  inside,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  skin.  Rub  the  po- 
tato through  a  sieve  and  add  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little 
chopped  parsley  and  cream.  Fill  the  potato-cases  with  this 
mixture  letting  It  come  above  the  top.  Put  small  pieces  of 
cheese  on  top  and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

POTATOES  AND  CHEESE 

1  pound  mashed  potatoes  cold         3  ounces  grated  cheese 
I  ounce  butter  ]/i  pint  milk 

Mash  the  potatoes,  and  add  the  cheese  and  pepper.  Put 
the  milk  and  butter  into  a  small  saucepan,  and  bring  to  a 
boil,  and  pour  over  the  potatoes  and  cheese.  Beat  well  for 
five  minutes,  put  into  a  buttered  pie-dish,  and  bake  in  a  quick 


172  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

oven  for  fifteen  minutes;  or,  put  into  scallop-shells,  and 
sprinkle  with  rusk  crumbs,  and  bake  for  a  few  minutes. 

POTATO  AND  ONION  PIE  NO.  i 

I  pound  of  potatoes  i  teacup  of  milk 

I  pound  of  onions  Pepper  and  salt 

I  ounce  butter  Short  paste 

Slice  the  onions  and  potatoes,  and  put  them  into  cold 
water.  Bring  them  to  boiling  point,  and  boil  quickly  for 
three  minutes.  Put  them  into  a  pie  dish,  and  add  the  but- 
ter and  the  milk,  which  must  be  boiling,  and  season  well  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Cover  the  dish  with  a  stout  crust,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  No  time 
must  be  lost  in  covering  the  pie  with  the  crust,  and  putting 
it  into  the  oven,  as  the  potatoes  must  not  be  allowed  to  cool 
or  the  flavor  will  be  spoiled. 

POTATO  AND  ONION  PIE  NO.  2 

6  large  potatoes  3  ounces  butter 

3  large  onions  Pepper  and  salt 

Peel,  and  wash  the  potatoes,  and  cut  tliem  into  slices 
about  the  eighth  of  an  inch  thick;  slice  the  onions  very  thin 
in  rounds.  Butter  a  pie-dish,  and  put  a  layer  of  potatoes 
at  the  bottom,  then  a  few  pieces  of  butter,  then  a  layer  of 
onion,  pepper  and  salt,  and  so  on,  till  the  dish  is  full,  leav- 
ing onions  on  top.  Cover  with  plate,  and  cook  slowly  in  the 
oven  for  three  hours.  Serve  with  grated  cheese.  A  short 
cjrust  may  be  put  on  this. 

POTATOES  WITH  PARMESAN 

I  pound  of  potatoes  2  ounces  grated  Parmesan 

Yt.  pint  white  sauce  3  ounces  bread  crumbs 

y^  ounce  butter 

Prepare  the  sauce  according  to  recipe  for  white  sauce. 
The  potatoes  must  be  boiled,  but  they  must  be  firm.     Cut 


VEGETABLES  173 

them  into  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  put  a  layer 
at  the  bottom  of  a  pie  dish;  cover  these  with  a  thin  coating 
of  the  sauce.  Repeat  this  until  the  potatoes  and  the  sauce 
are  all  used.  Now  sprinkle  the  Parmesan  over  the  sauce, 
and  cover  with  bread  crumbs.  Break  the  butter  in  small 
bits,  and  place  it  over  the  top.  Brown  in  a  hot  oven  for 
about  twenty  minutes. 

POTATO  AND  ONION  PUDDING 

Follow  the  recipe  of  potato  and  onion  pie,  except  to  line 
pudding  bowl  with  crust  and  cover  pudding  also  with  crust. 
This  pudding  should  be  steamed  for  three  hours. 

BOHEMIAN  POTATO  PUFFS 

Put  six  ounces  of  mashed  potatoes  in  a  saucepan  with  six 
ounces  of  flour,  enough  water  to  moisten  and  a  teaspoon  of 
salt.  Mix  thoroughly  and  put  on  the  stove  until  heated 
through,  then  beat  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  Keep  covered 
for  a  few  minutes.  Then  remove  from  the  stove,  and  mash 
until  all  lumps  are  removed  and  the  mixture  has  the  consist- 
ency of  a  smooth  paste.  Into  a  deep  pan  put  some  butter  or 
vegetable  fat  and  some  onions  finely  minced,  and  heat  them 
until  they  become  a  light  brown.  Take  a  tablespoon,  and  dip 
it  in  the  hot  oil  or  butter,  then  cut  a  spoonful  of  the  potato 
dough  with  the  same  spoon,  and  put  it  in  the  pan,  taking 
care  to  dip  your  spoon  in  the  hot  oil  every  time  you  cut  a 
puff.     Let  them  brown  slightly,  and  serve  very  hot. 

CURRIED  POTATOES 

Cut  hot  boiled  potatoes  in  slices  and  cover  them  with  a 
sauce  made  as  follows :  Slice  six  onions,  and  cook  them  in  two 
ounces  of  butter  over  a  slow  fire.  Add  two  sliced  apples  and 
two  sliced  tomatoes  and  cook  until  well  blended ;  then  add  one 
tablespoon  of  curry  powder,  one  teaspoon  of  chutney,  one 
teaspoon  of  vinegar,  two  ounces  of  flour,  salt  and  sugar  to 


174  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

taste.     Moisten  with  a  pint  of  milk  and  water.     Boil  until 
it  is  thick,  and  strain  through  a  tammy. 

,       COLCANNON 

Mix  one  cup  of  mashed  potatoes  and  one  cup  of  chopped 
greens  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  paprika 
and  salt  to  taste.  Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  brown  in  the 
oven,  and  serve  very  hot. 

POTATO  PUFFS  WITH  CHEESE 

I  cup  mashed  potatoes  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

y^  cup  milk  Yi  cup  grated  cheese 

Beat  the  potatoes  and  milk  together  until  thoroughly 
mixed.  Add  the  salt,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Finally  add 
the  cheese.  Bake  in  muffin  tins  in  a  slow  oven  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes. 

A  similar  dish  may  be  made  by  scooping  out  the  inside  of 
a  baked  potato,  and  mixing  it  with  cheese  as  above.  Fill 
the  potato  skin  shell  with  the  mixture,  return  to  the  oven,  and 
bake  until  light  brown. 

BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Wash  the  potatoes,  and  bake  as  white  potatoes.  Small 
ones  will  bake  in  half  an  hour,  while  very  large  ones  will 
require  an  hour  or  more.  If  the  potatoes  are  liked  very 
sweet,  bake  from  an  hour  to  two  hours,  depending  on  size. 

BOILED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Wash  potatoes  of  a  uniform  size,  put  them  in  boiling  salted 
water,  and  cook  about  forty-five  minutes,  then  drain  well. 
Cover  the  pot  with  a  cloth,  and  draw  it  to  the  side  of  the 
range,  to  let  the  potatoes  steam  for  ten  minutes.  Peel  be- 
fore serving,  and  cover  with  melted  butter. 


VEGETABLES  175 

GLAZED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Boil  six  medium  sized  potatoes  in  salted  water  with  skins 
on  for  ten  minutes,  remove  skins,  and  cut  in  halves  length- 
wise. Arrange  in  a  buttered  pan.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling 
for  three  minutes  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  one- 
third  cup  of  water.  Add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
butter.  Brush  potatoes  with  syrup,  and  bake  until  brown, 
basting  with  remaining  syrup.     Serve  in  hot  covered  dish. 

BROWNED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Peel  the  sweet  potatoes,  and  toss  into  cold  water  imme- 
diately to  prevent  discoloration.  Cut  in  halves  lengthwise. 
Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  or  steam  until  tender.  Drain, 
and  place  in  a  buttered  dripping  pan.  Brush  the  tops  of 
the  potatoes  with  butter.  Sprinkle  slightly  with  sugar. 
Place  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  until  browned. 

SWEET  POTATOES  CANDIED 

Pare  sweet  potatoes,  and  cut  in  one-third  inch  slices  across. 
Boil  ten  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover,  drain.  Ar- 
range in  a  baking-dish,  coyer  with  lumps  of  butter,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  put  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes.  Just  before 
removing  pour  over  a  cup  of  Jamaica  rum. 

SPINACH  COOKED  WITHOUT  WATER 

Put  the  spinach  in  a  stewpan,  cover,  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes.  Press  down,  and  turn  the  spinach  over  several 
times  while  cooking.  At  the  end  of  ten  minutes  turn  the 
spinach  into  a  chopping  bowl,  and  mince  very  fine.  Return 
to  the  pan,  and  add  the  seasoning,  allowing  for  half  a  peck 
of  spinach  two  large  tablespoons  of  butter  and  a  teaspoon 
of  salt.  Simmer  ten  minutes.  Only  young  spinach  should 
be  cooked  in  this  way.  The  leaves  should  be  washed  in 
many  waters  until  not  a  trace  of  sand  is  found. 


176  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

BOILED  SPINACH 

Pick  over  the  spinach,  carefully  removing  all  wilted  leaves. 
Cut  off  the  roots  and  the  coarse  fiber  of  the  leaves  which 
require  longer  cooking  than  the  remainder  of  the  leaves,  toss 
into  cold  water,  and  wash  thoroughly  through  several  waters, 
taking  care  to  agitate  it  considerably  each  time  in  order  to 
free  it  from  sand.  Put  to  cook  in  boiling  water,  and  let  boil 
five  minutes.  Drain,  salt,  and  allow  it  to  finish  cooking  in 
the  liquid  which  remains  on  the  leaves.  Cook  until  tender, 
which  will  require  about  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain  off  the 
excess  moisture,  if  any,  and  chop  very  fine.  Add  butter — 
one  tablespoon  to  a  pint  of  the  cooked  spinach.  Serve  with 
slices  of  lemon. 

SPINACH  WITH  CREAM 

Yz  peck  spinach  i  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  J4  teaspoon  pepper 

I  tablespoon  flour  jE4  pint  cream  or  milk 

Cook  and  mince  the  spinach.  Put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
and  on  the  fire.  When  hot,  add  the  flour,  and  stir  until 
smooth  and  frothy,  then  add  the  minced  spinach,  salt  and 
pepper.  Cook  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the  milk  or  cream 
hot,  and  cook  three  minutes  longer. 

SPINACH  CUTLETS 

Wash  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  spinach,  cook  it  in  salted 
water  to  cover  for  ten  minutes.  Strain  and  rub  through  a 
sieve.  Add  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one  tablespoon  of  minced 
onion  and  the  water  in  which  the  spinach  wasboiled  and  stir 
over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  leaves  the  side  of  the  pan. 
Melt  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  mix  in  the  flour,  one  table- 
spoon, add  the  spinach  and  cook  until  quite  thick.  Add  more 
bread  crumbs  and  seasoning  if  necessary.  Turn  on  a  plate, 
make  into  a  flat  cake  and  leave  until  cold.  Then  shape  into 
cutlets  and  fry  in  deep  oil.     Serve  with  the  Bechamel  sauce. 


VEGETABLES  177 

SQUA&H 

Wash  the  squash,  cut  in  pieces,  remove  seeds,  and  stringy 
portion  and  boil  in  salted  water  or  put  in  a  steamer,  and  cook 
thirty  minutes  or  more  over  boiling  water.  Mash,  and  sea- 
son with  butter  and  salt  and  pepper. 

MASHED  SUMMER  SQUASH 

Select  squashes  of  about  even  size.  If  quite  mature, 
quarter,  and  remove  seeds.  If  quite  young,  they  may  be 
cooked  whole.  Steam  or  cook  in  a  very  small  quantity  of 
water,  allowing  as  much  of  the  water  as  possible  to  evaporate 
at  the  last  of  the  cooking.  Unless  the  squash  is  quite  dry, 
drain  the  liquid  from  it.  Mash,  season  with  a  little  butter, 
salt  and  cream.  Summer  squash  may  be  sliced  and  fried  like 
egg  plant. 

SWISS  CHARDS 
This  vegetable  is  a  variety  of  beet  in  which  the  leaf,  stalk 
and  mid-rib  have  been  developed  instead  of  the  root.  It  is 
cultivated  like  spinach,  and  the  green,  tender  leaves  are  pre- 
pared exactly  like  this  vegetable.  The  mid-ribs  of  the  full 
grown  leaves  may  be  cooked  like  celery. 

SLICED  TOMATOES 

Put  tomatoes  in  a  bowl  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them, 
let  them  stand  one  minute,  then  peel  off  the  skins.  Chill 
thoroughly,  and  cut  in  slices.  Serve  with  oil,  vinegar,  pep- 
per and  salt,  and  sugar  if  desired.  ' 

STEWED  TOMATOES 

When  fresh  tomatoes  are  used,  peel  and  cut  into  small 
pieces,  put  in  a  saucepan,  and  boil  gently  twenty  minutes  or 
half  an  hour.  Add  a  few  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  a  slice 
of  onion  and  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  five  minutes 
before  the  cooking  is  finished.     AUow  for  a  quart  of  toma- 


178  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

toes  one  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  sugar  and  one  tablespoon 
or  more  of  butter. 

BROILED  TOMATOES 

Wash  the  tomatoes  but  do  not  peel,  then  cut  in  half  cross- 
wise, and  cut  off  a  thin  slice  from  the  round  part  of  each  half. 
Dust  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip  in  crumbs,  and  place  in  a  well 
buttered  broiler,  and  broil  fifteen  minutes  without  turning. 
Serve  with  maitre  d'hotel  butter. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES  NO.  i 

Remove  a  thin  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  the  tomatoes, 
scrape  out  the  seeds  and  pulp,  sprinkle  the  inside  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  let  them  stand  ten  minutes.  To  the  pulp,  add 
an  equal  quantity  of  chopped  mushrooms  and  bread  crumbs, 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  a  few  drops  of  onion 
juice;  fill  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture.  Put  a  piece  of 
butter  on  the  top  of  each  and  place  on  a  round  of  bread  which 
has  been  dipped  in  water.     Bake  about  fifteen  minutes. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES  NO.  2 

Large  tomatoes  Forcemeat  Butter 

Wipe  some  large  tomatoes  as  nearly  one  size  as  possible. 
Cut  a  round  hole  in  the  stalk  end,  and  fill  with  forcemeat. 
Place  a  bit  of  butter,  as  large  as  a  hazel  nut  on  each  tomato, 
and  bake  them  in  a  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  from  twenty 
minutes  to  half  an  hour  according  to  the  size.  Make  the 
forcemeat  according  to  recipe  for  forcemeat. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES  WITH  OLIVES 
For  each  two  tomatoes  prepare  the  following:     ' 
I  tablespoon  butter  4  tablespoons  dried  bread  crumbs 

y2.  small  onion  finely  chopped  J^  cup  seeded  ripe  olives 

Remove  the  stem  from  sound  tomatoes  and  scrape  out  the 
pulp.     Sprinkle  the  inside  of  the  tomatoes  with  salt.     Add 


VEGETABLES  179 

tHe  pulp  and  seasoning,  and  cook  five  minutes ;  then  add  the 
olives  and  bread  crumbs.  Put  the  mixture  in  the  tomatoes, 
cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake. 

BAKED  TOMATOES 

Scald,  and  peel  the  desired  number  of  tomatoes.  Remove 
the  cores,  and  cut  down  from  the  stem  end  about  half  way, 
making  six  or  eight  sections.  Sprinkle  salt  into  the  openings, 
and  place  a  piece  of  butter  in  the  center.  Arrange  the  toma- 
toes closely  in  a  pan,  pour  about  one-fourth  cup  of  hot  water 
in  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake  slowly 
about  an  hour.  Slow  cooking  of  tomatoes  develops  a  de- 
licious flavor. 

TOMATOES  IN  CASSEROLES 

Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes  and  put  them  into  small  casse- 
role dishes;  dust  with  pepper  and  salt  and  bake  until  the 
tomato  is  soft.     Pour  over  a  white  sauce,  and  serve  at  once. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES 

I  pint  peded  and  cut  tomatoes        i  tablespoon  butter 
I  pint  bread  crumbs  I  tablespoon  sugar 

Pepper  i  teaspoon  salt 

Reserve  three  tablespoons  of  the  bread  crumbs,  and  spread 
the  remainder  on  a  pan.  Brown  in  the  oven,  being  careful 
not  to  burn  them.  Mix  the  tomatoes,  browned  bread 
crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  half  the  butter  together,  and 
put  in  a  shallow  baking  dish.  Spread  the  unbrowned  crumbs 
on  top,  and  dot  with  the  remainder  of  the  butter  cut  into  bits. 
Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  half  an  hour.  The  top 
of  the  dish  should  be  brown  and  crisp. 

ROASTED  TOMATOES 
Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes,  cut  a  slice  from  the  top,  and 
remove  a  spoonful  of  the  pulp.     Put  a  piece  of  butter  and  a 


i8o  MEATLESS  COOKERYi 

few  drops  of  onion  juice  in  each  one,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  cover  with  a  spoonful  of  toasted  cornflakes. 
Put  another  piece  of  butter  or  some  drops  of  oil  on  each  one, 
put  on  a  round  of  bread  dipped  in  water,  and  bake  in  the 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

TOMATOES  WITH  RICE 
Mix  a  cup  of  boiled  rice  with  half  a  cup  of  stewed  tomatoes 
which  have  been  well  seasoned  with  butter,  salt,  paprika  and 
onion  juice.     Put  in  a  saucepan  and  heat  until  the  rice  and 
tomato  are  well  blended.  i 

TOMATO  FARCI 
Cut  the  tomatoes  in  thick  slices,  put  them  in  a  frying  pan 
in  half  an  inch  of  hot  oil.  "When  tender,  lift  them  with  a 
broad  knife  to  avoid  breaking,  and  place  them  in  a  baking 
dish  which  has  been  spread  with  butter ;  cover  the  tomatoes 
with  minced  onion,  parsley,  salt,  sugar  and  cayenne.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

TOMATOES  IN  BATTER 

Sprinkle  slices  of  tomato  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  well 
with  batter,  and  fry  in  butter  until  evenly  browned  on  both 
sides. 

FRIED  TOMATOES 

Cut  the  tomatoes  in  half-inch  slices,  put  them  in  a  frying 
pan,  and  fry  until  brown  In  butter  or  oil.  Place  on  a  warm 
dish,  and  in  the  same  pan  in  which  the  tomatoes  were  cooked, 
make  a  sauce  of  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  salt,  pepper  and 
enough  milk  to  make  the  dressing  the  consistency  of  thick 
cream.  Cook  the  sauce  until  the  raw  taste  of  the  flour  is 
gone,  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes.  i 

HASHED  TURNIPS 
Chop  the  boiled  and  drained  turnips  into  rather  large 
pieces.     Return  to  the  saucepan,  and  for  a  pint  and  a  half 


VEGETABLES  i8i 

of  turnips,  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoon 
pepper,  a  tablespoon  butter,  and  four  tablespoons  water. 
Cook  over  a  very  hot  fire  until  the  turnips  have  absorbed  all 
the  seasoning.  Serve  at  once.  Parsnips  may  also  be 
cooked  in  this  way. 

TURNIP  PUR^E 

2  cups  grated  turnip  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

I  teaspoon  salt  J^,  cup  cream 

Wash,  peel  and  grate  a  sufficient  number  of  turnips  to 
make  two  cups.  New  turnips  are  best  for  this  recipe.  To 
the  cream  add  the  lemon  juice  and  salt,  and  beat  thoroughly; 
then  pour  over  the  grated  turnip. 

^  MASHED  TURNIPS 

Wash,  and  pare  the  turnips  deeply  enough  to  remove  the 
fibrous  layer  which  lies  about  one-eighth  to  one-quarter  inch 
beneath  the  skin.  Slice  or  quarter,  and  cook  in  boiling  water 
covered.  When  almost  done,  which  will  require  from  forty- 
five  minutes  to  two  hours'  time,  add  salt,  and  finish  cooking. 
Drain,  mash,  and  add  salt,  pepper  and  one  tablespoon  butter 
to  each  pint  of  mashed  turnips. 

CREAMED  TURNIPS 

Pare  small,  young,  white  turnips,  and  boil  until  tender, 
adding  salt  one-half  hour  before  done.  Drain,  and  dry  over 
flame.  Prepare  sauce  for  vegetables.  Pour  over  the  tur- 
nips, and  let  simmer  fifteen  minutes.  If  small  turnips  are 
not  obtainable,  large  ones  may  be  sliced  and  otherwise  pre- 
pared as  the  whole  ones. 

STUFFED  VEGETABLE  MARROW  NO.  i 

I  small  vegetable  marrow  Half  a  pint  gravy 

Forcemeat 

Peel  a  vegetable  marrow  about  eight  inches  long,  cut  it  In 


i82  MEATLESS  COOKERYi 

halves  lengthwise,  and  remove  the  seeds.  Put  it  Into  fast 
boiling  water,  salted,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  ten  minutes. 
Lift  it  carefully,  and  let  it  drain;  then  wipe  with  a  clean  cloth. 
Have  ready  some  forcemeat,  and  fill  the  hollow  in  the  middle 
of  one  half,  and  place  the  other  half  on  top.  Tie  the  halves 
together  with  twine,  and  lift  the  marrow  carefully  into  an 
oval  baking  dish.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the  marrow,  and 
cover  it  closely  with  another  dish  over  it.  Baste  occasion- 
ally, and  bake  for  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  If  it  is  baked  with 
a  French  baking  dish  with  cover,  it  can  be  sent  to  table  in 
dish  it  is  baked  in.  If  an  ordinary  dish  is  used,  it  would 
still  be  better  to  serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was  baked,  as 
the  marrow  might  be  difficult  to  remove,  but  a  napkin  must 
be  fastened  around  the  dish  when  served. 

STUFFED  VEGETABLE  MARROW  NO.  2 

Peel  the  marrow,  cut  it  in  half  lengthwise  and  remove  the 
seeds.  Fill  the  space  with  half  a  cup  of  chopped  mushrooms, 
minced  onions,  some  sage  and  lemon  rind,  one  tablespoon  of 
butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Put  the  marrow  together 
and  tie  up  with  string,  steam  until  tender,  about  thirty 
minutes.  Place  the  marrow  In  a  hot  dish  and  remove  the 
string.     Serve  with  a  vegetable  sauce  very  hot. 

VEGETABLE  MARROW  A  L'ESPAGNOLE 

I  vegetable  marrow  2  large  tomatoes 

I  bunch  of  herbs  i  onion 

I  pint  brown  sauce  i  gill  of  sherry 

Peel  the  marrow  and  cut  it  into  pieces,  removing  the  seeds. 
Put  into  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  twenty  minutes. 
Slice  the  tomatoes  and  onion,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  the  re- 
maining ingredients ;  let  the  whole  stew  gently  till  thoroughly 
cooked.     Pour  over  the  marrow  and  serve  hot. 


SAUCES 

Epicurean  cooks, 

Sharpen  with  cloyless  sauce  his  appetite. 

Shakespeare. 

BROWN  SAUCE 

Chop  an  onion  and  fry  it  in  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  and 
then  stir  in  a  dessertspoon  of  white  flour,  letting  the  mixture 
brown.  Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  boiling  or  potato 
water  until  the  proper  thickness  is  obtained,  letting  it  boil 
for  sdveral  minutes  so  there  will  be  no  raw  taste  to  the  flour. 

WHITE  SAUCE 

4  tablespoons  butter  2  cups  milk 

4  tablespoons  flour  i  teaspoon  salt 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  but  do  not  let  it  reach 
the  scalding  point.  Rub  butter,  flour  and  salt  together  until 
smooth,  then  slowly  pour  over  them  the  hot  milk.  Stir  until 
smooth  and  thickened,  cooking  thoroughly  until  there  is  no 
raw  taste. 

THIN  WHITE  SAUCE 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  cups  milk 

2  tablespoons  flour  i  teaspoon  salt 

Put  together  the  same  as  white  sauce.  Add  one  table- 
spoon of  capers  for  caper  sauce. 

SAUCE  FOR  VEGETABLES 

3  tablespoons  butter  I  cup  liquid  in  which  the  vegeta- 
3  tablespoons  flour  ble  is  cooked 

I  cup  milk  I  teaspoon  salt 

Put  together  as  for  white  sauce.     Milk  may  be  used 

183 


1 84  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

instead  of  the  liquid  in  which  the  vegetable  is  cooked  if 
desired. 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE 

1  pint  milk  2  tablespoons  chopped  onions 
4  tablespoons  butter  Yz  cup  chopped  celery 

4  tablespoons  flour  ij^  teaspoons  salt 

Add  the  chopped  celery  and  the  onion  to  the  milk,  and 
heat  in  a  double  boiler.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together, 
and  add  the  hot  liquid  slowly.  Return  to  the  double  boiler, 
and  cook  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Add  the  salt  just  be- 
fore serving. 

CREAM  SAUCE 

Yi  pint  cream  i  teaspoon  salt 

Yi  pint  milk  4  tablespoons  flour 

Heat  the  milk  and  cream  to  scalding  in  a  double  boiler. 
Moisten  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  liiilk,  and  add  to  the  hot 
milk  and  cream,  stirring  meanwhile.  Cook  thoroughly,  and 
add  salt. 

Thin  cream  sauce  is  made  by  using  one-half  the  amount 
of  flour. 

CELERY  SAUCE 

2  cups  chopped  celery  i  cup  milk 

2  cups  water  ij4,  tablespoons  butter 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  ij^  tablespoons  flour 

Cook  the  celery  in  the  water  with  the  salt.  When  per- 
fectly tender,  and  the  water  reduced  about  half,  press  it 
through  a  colander,  add  the  milk,  and  reheat.  Rub  the 
butter  and  flouir  together,  and  pour  over  it  a  little  of  the  hot 
milk  and  celery,  stirring  constantly.  Then  turn  it  into  the 
hot  liquid,  and  stir  until  thickened  and  thoroughly  cooked. 

All  flour  sauces  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  rich  cream. 
Thick,  pasty  sauces  are  unpalatable  and  indigestible. 


SAUCES  185 

SCREAM  TOMATO  SAUCE 

2  cups  milk  1  cup  strained  tomato 

6  tablespoons  flour  or 

6  tablespoons  butter  ^   cup  condensed  tomato  with 

1  teaspoon  salt  Yz  cup  water 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  milk,  flour  and  butter.  Heat 
the  strained,  stewed  tomato,  and  add  gradually  to  the  white 
sauce.     Add  the  salt,  and  serve  at  once. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

ij^  cups  strained,  stewed  tomato  2  tablespoons  butter 

or  2  tablespoons  flour 

Yz  cup  condensed  tomato  and  one  i  teaspoon  salt 
cup  water 

Heat  the  tomato.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together. 
Pour  over  this  the  hot,  but  not  boiling,  tomato,  slowly  stir- 
ring. Let  come  to  the  boiling  point,  and  cook  until  there 
is  no  raw  taste  of  starch.  A  little  onion  or  celery  salt  may 
be  added  if  desired. 

ENGLISH  MUSHROOM  SAUCE 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion  2  tablespoons  butter 
Ys  cup' strained  stewed  tomato       Y  *^UP  mushrooms 

I  teaspoon  salt  ij^.  cups  brown  sauce 

Cook  the  onion  and  butter  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  in 
a  double  boiler.  Add  the  tomato  and  other  seasonings. 
Chop  the  mushrooms,  and  add;  then  stir  in  the  brown  sauce. 
Reheat,  and  serve. 

DRA  .VN  BUTTER  SAUCE 

J^  or  J4  cup  butter  i  pint  boiling  water 

J4  cup  flour  I  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

I  tablespoon  lemon  juice  J^:  teaspoon  salt 

Prepare  as  a  white  sauce. 


1 86  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

I  tablespoon  flour  i  tablespoon  of  cream 

4  tablespoons  butter  Salt,  pepper 

I  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Put  the  butter  In  a  saucepan,  when  it  is  melted  add  the 
flour  and  mix  well.  Add  one  gill  of  milk  and  one  gill  of 
water  gradually,  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  is  boiling.  Cook 
for  ten  minutes,  then  add  the  cream,  lemon  juice  and  season- 
ing. It  should  have  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Three 
tablespoons  of  oil  and  one  of  vinegar  may  be  used  if  de- 
sired. 

BUTTERMILK  CREAM 
By  controlling  the  temperature  in  heating  the  butterniilk, 
and  not  allowing  it  to  go  above  loo  degrees  F.,  a  compound 
is  made  which,  after  draining,  has  the  consistency  of  a  very 
thick  cream.  It  is  claimed  by  the  experiment  station  Investi- 
gators that  this  cream  Is  suitable  for  eating  on  bread  in  place 
of  butter, 

DEVONSHIRE  CREAM 

Devonshire  cream  somewhat  resembles  sweet  cream  In 
flavor  and  consistency.  It  is  very  much  liked  In  England, 
where  it  Is  commonly  eaten  with  fresh  or  preserved  fruit, 
but  Is  not  so  well  known  In  America. 

To  make  Devonshire  cream,  allow  a  pan  of  whole  milk 
to  stand  for  twenty-four  hours  In  a  cool  place  or  for  twelve 
hours  In  a  warmer  place.  Place  the  pan  on  the  cooler  part 
of  the  stove,  and  heat  until  the  milk  Is  very  hot,  but  not  to 
the  boiling  point.  If  heated  too  much,  a  thick  skin  will 
form  on  the  surface.  The  more  slowly  the  milk  Is  heated, 
the  better.  Having  been  heated,  the  milk  should  be  kept 
In  a  cool  place  for  twenty-four  hours,  and  then  skimmed. 
The  thick  cream  obtained  has  a  characteristic  flavor  and 
texture. 


SAUCES  187 

CHEESE  SAUCE  NO.  1 

1  cup  of  milk  I  ounce  of  cheese  —  %  cup   of 

2  tablespoons  flour  grated  cheese 

Salt  and  pepper 

Thicken  the  milk  with  the  flour,  and  just  before  serving, 
add  the  cheese,  stirring  until  it  is  melted. 

This  sauce  is  suitable  to  pour  over  toast,  making  a  dish 
corresponding  to  ordinary  milk  toast,  except  for  the  pres- 
ence of  cheese.  It  may  be  seasoned  with  a  little  curry  pow- 
der. 

CHEESE  SAUCE  NO.  2 

Same  as  Cheese  Sauce  No.  i  except  that  the  cheese  is  in- 
creased from  one  to  two  ounces.  This  sauce  is  suitable  for 
using  with  macaroni  or  rice,  or  for  baking  with  crackers 
soaked  in  milk. 

CHEESE  SAUCE  NO.  3 

Same  as  Cheese  Sauce  No.  i,  except  that  two  cups  of 
grated  cheese  or  eight  ounces,  are  used.  This  may  be 
used  upon  toast  as  a  substitute  for  Welsh  rarebit. 

CHEESE  SAUCE  NO.  4 

Same  as  Cheese  Sauce  No.  2,  save  that  two  tablespoons 
of  melted  butter  are  mixed  with  the  flour  before  the  latter 
is  put  into  the  milk.  This  sauce  is  therefore  very  rich  in 
fat,  and  has  only  a  mild  flavor  of  cheese. 

NEUFCHATEL  SAUCE 

Take  half  a  Neufchatel  cheese  and  mix  it  with  olive  oil. 
Mix  the  other  half  with  lemon  juice  and  then  add  together 
and  season  with  paprika  and  salt.  Pour  in  sherry  wine  until 
it  is  the  consistency  of  thick  cream  and  blend  thoroughly. 
Any  soft  cream  cheese  may  be  used  instead  of  Neufchatel 
and  the  flavor  varied  by  using  brandy,  rum  or  kirsch. 


1 88        MEATLESS  COOKERY 

BREAD  SAUCE 

I  cup  bread  crumbs  Yz.  pint  milk 

1  teaspoon  butter  i  small  onion 
6  pepper  corns                                    Salt,  paprika 

Put  the  milk  and  an  equal  quantity  of  water  in  a  saucepan 
with  the  onion,  butter,  salt  and  pepper  corns,  and  cook  for 
about  fifteen  minutes.  Strain,  add  the  bread  crumbs  and 
simmer  for  another  fifteen  minutes.  If  too  thick  add  milk 
to  make  it  the  proper  consistency.  See  that  it  is  well  sea- 
soned. 

MAtTRE  D'H6tEL  BUTTER 

Cream  some  butter ;  season  with  salt,  cayenne,  lemon  juice, 
and  pepper. 

Add  finely  minced  parsley  or  chopped  olives  and  put  in 
the  oven  a  minute  until  the  butter  is  melted. 

HARD  SAUCE 

Yz  cup  butter  i  cup  powdered  sugar 

2  tablespoons  sherry  or  J4  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar.  Continue  beating  until 
smooth  and  creamy.  Add  flavoring,  and  stir  again.  Put 
on  serving  dish  and  place  near  ice. 

COCOANUT  SAUCE 
I  pint  milk  ij4  tablespoons  cornstarch 

J^  cup  shredded  cocoanut  J4  '^up  sugar 

Braid  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  of  the  cold  milk.  Steep 
the  cocoanut  in  the  remainder  of  the  milk  in  the  double  boiler 
for  one-half  hour.  Strain  out  the  cocoanut,  add  the  sugar, 
heat  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  the  braided  cornstarch  with  this 
mixture.  When  thickened,  remove  from  fire,  and  add  one 
tablespoon  sherry,  beating  continuously.  If  grated  cocoa- 
nut  is  used  the  sauce  need  not  be  strained. 


SAUCES  189 

TO  WHIP  CREAM 

I  pint  whipped  cream  ij4  tablespoons  sugar 

Yi  teaspoon  flavoring 

Chill  the  cream  by  placing  in  the  inner  portion  of  a  double 
boiler  and  surround  with  chipped  ice  to  which  a  little  salt 
has  been  added.  By  chilling  the  cream  a  lighter  cream  may 
be  used  than  otherwise.  When  thoroughly  chilled,  add  the 
sugar  and  flavoring.  Beat  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  until 
light  and  foamy.  Remove  /the  foamy  portion.  Place  in 
a  strainer  over  a  receptacle  and  allow  to  drain.  Repeat 
this  process  until  all  the  cream  has  been  used. 

Whipped  cream  is  one  of  the  most  easily  digested  forms 
of  fat. 

MOCK  WHIPPED  CREAM 

I  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  sugar 

I  teaspoon  flour  J^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  the  flour,  sugar  and  salt,  with  a  little  cold  milk,  to- 
gether. Pour  over  this  the  hot  milk,  and  cook  until  thick- 
ened. Beat  for  a  minute  or  two,  then  cool,  and  flavor  with 
vanilla. 

VANILLA  SAUCE 

3  tablespoons  flour  i  cup  water 

3  tablespoons  butter  Yz  cup  sugar 

I  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  the  sugar  and  flour  together.  Add  the  boiling  water 
slowly,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  twenty  minutes,  frequently 
stirring.  Add  the  butter  just  before  taking  from  the  stove. 
Cool,  and  add  vanilla. 

MAPLE  SAUCE 

1  cup  maple  syrup  i  tablespoon  comstatcH 

I  cup  water  2  tablespoons  butter 

Moisten  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  of  the  cold  water. 


I90  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Heat  the  remainder  of  the  water,  and  the  syrup  to  boiling, 
stir  in  the  braided  cornstarch,  and  cook  live  to  ten  minutes. 
Add  the  butter,  and  serve  hot  as  a  dressing  on  hot  puddings. 

RASPBERRY  SAUCE 

ij^'  cups  raspberry  juice  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

i^  tablespoons  water 

Heat  the  juice  from  the  canned  berries,  and  add  the  corn- 
starch moistened  with  the  water,  stirring  meanwhile.  When 
thickened,  cook  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  in  a  double  boiler. 
If  the  fruit  juice  is  not  sufficiently  sweetened,  add  sugar. 

LEMON  SAUCE 

I  pint  boiling  water  l  lemon  —  juice  and  rind 

I  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Braid  the  flour  with  cold  water,  and  add  to  the  boiling 
water.  Cook  twenty  minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  Cream  the 
butter  and  sugar,  and  add  the  lemon  juice.  Pour  the  hot 
liquid  over  this,  stir,  and  cool. 

WINE  SAUCE 

Make  same  as  Lemon  Sauce,  using  two  tablespoons  sherry 
In  place  of  lemon  juice. 


SALADS 

"  The  tender  lettuce  brings  on  softer  sleep." 

ASPIC  JELLY 

Take  two  pints  of  cold  water,  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
vegetable  gelatine,  one  lemon,  some  pepper  and  salt,  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Tarragon  vinegar. 
Soak  the  gelatine  two  hours  in  one  pint  of  water,  then  add 
the  other  ingredients,  strain  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Put 
over  a  slow  fire  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved,  then  boil  two 
or  three  minutes,  and  strain  through  jelly  bag. 

COMBINATION  SALAD 

6  medium  sized  tomatoes  6  radishes 

2  rather  small  cucumbers  Yz.  sweet  green  pepper 

French  salad  dressing 

Arrange  the  salad  on  individual  plates.  Slice  the  tomato 
on  a  lettuce  leaf,  then  add  one-third  of  a  cucumber,  sliced. 
Slice  the  radishes,  but  do  not  peel.  Arrange  the  sliced 
radishes  over  the  tomato  and  cucumber.  Chop  the  half  of 
a  sweet  green  pepper,  taking  care  that  it  is  a  sweet  pepper, 
and  sprinkle  one-half  teaspoon  of  the  chopped  pepper  on 
top  of  the  other  vegetables.  Over  this  pour  a  tablespoonful 
of  the  French  salad  dressing.  It  is  particularly  important 
that  the  vegetables  shall  be  in  good  condition  and  that  the 
cucumber  and  radishes  shall  be  crisp  and  tender.  If  some- 
what wilted,  immerse  them  in  cold  water  for  a  half  hour  or 

more, 

191 


192  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

STRING  BEAN  SALAD 

Select  young,  tender  beans;  remove  the  ends  and  the 
strings ;  cook,  without  breaking,  in  boiling,  salted  water  until 
tender,  which  may  require  from  one  to  three  hours.  Drain 
off  the  liquid  and  cool.  Marinate  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Arrange  the  beans  horizontally  on  a  lettuce  leaf  on  individ- 
ual salad  plates.  Pour  over  the  beans  a  French  salad  dress- 
ing. If  preferred  a  good  grade  of  canned  string  beans  may 
be  used  instead  of  fresh  ones. 

MACEDOINE  SALAD  NO.  i 

1  cup  diced  carrots  J^  cup  diced  sweet  potatoes 

Yi.  cup  diced  potatoes  J4  cup  diced  turnips 

I  cup  string  beans  J^.  cup  French  dressing 

Cook  the  vegetables  separately,  adding  salt  toward  the  last 
of  the  cooking.  When  cool,  cut  into  half-inch  cubes. 
Canned  beans  may  be  used  if  fresh  ones  are  not  obtainable. 
They  should  be  cut  into  half-inch  lengths.  Vegetables  other 
than  those  mentioned  may  be  used.  Cauliflower,  beets, 
peas,  celery,  etc.,  may  be  substituted  if  desired.  Two  or 
three  vegetables  only  may  be  used;  mix  the  vegetables  with 
the  French  dressing.     Garnish  the  salad  withi,  lettuce  leaves. 

MACEDOINE  SALAD  NO.  2 

Take  one  cupful  each  of  cooked  and  diced  carrots,  flower- 
ets of  cauliflower,  diced  beets,  and  artichoke  bottoms,  and 
add  one  cup  of  peas,  one  cup  of  asparagus  tips,  and  one  cup 
of  fine  cut  string  beans.  Mix  them  lightly  with  French 
dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce.  This  makes  a  better  looking 
dish  if  the  vegetables  are  cut  with  a  potato  scoop  or  a  fancy 
cutter.  If  served  on  individual  plates  use  the  inside  leaves 
of  the  lettuce  which  are  curled  like  a  cup.  Place  one  leaf 
on  each  plate  and  fill  with  the  macedoine  or  arrange  several 
leaves  to  form  a  cup. 


SALADS  193 

WALDORF  SALAD 

Mix  two  cups  of  celery  cut  fine,  one  dozen  walnuts 
chopped,  and  one  cup  of  diced  apples.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  covered  with  French  dressing.  The  apple  should 
be  put  in  water  as  soon  as  it  is  cut  to  prevent  discoloration. 

ORANGE  SALAD 

Mix  a  cup  of  pecan  nuts  and  English  walnuts  with  a  cup 
of  diced  oranges,  squeeze  lemon  juice  over  them,  and  let 
them  stand  for  half  an  hour.  Serve  very  cold  with  endive 
and  French  dressing. 

PRUNE  SALAD 

Cook  one  pound  of  large  French  prunes  until  tender ;  when 
cold  remove  the  stones  and  chop  the  prunes  and  mix  with 
one  cup  of  chopped  English  walnuts  or  pecan  nuts.  Serve 
on  lettuce  and  cover  with  French  dressing. 

TOMATO  SALAD 

Scald  and  peel  firm  tomatoes,  cut  a  thin  slice  from  the 
stem  end,  and  remove  the  seeds  and  some  of  the  pulp. 
Sprinkle  the  inside  with  salt,  invert,  and  leave  until  needed. 
Mix  chopped  nuts  with  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  cooked 
asparagus  tips  and  one-half  the  quantity  of  finely  cut  celery 
moistened  with  dressing  and  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  chives. 
Serve  on  lettuce  with  French  dressing. 

TOMATO  AND  CAULIFLOWER  SALAD 

Scald  and  peel  firm  tomatoes  and  cut  into  quarters.  Ar- 
range them  in  a  circle  on  lettuce  leaves,  with  a  floweret  of 
cold  cooked  cauliflower,  which  has  been  marinated  for  half 
an  hour  in  French  dressing,  between  the  quarters.  Sferve 
with  a  cream  dressing. 


194  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

TOMATO  AND  CELERY  SALAD 
Scald  and  peel  solid  tomatoes  of  equal  size  and  take  from 
the  stem  end  part  of  the  pulp.  Chop  into  half-inch  pieces 
crisp  white  celery  and  sweet  peppers.  Mix  thoroughly  with 
French  dressing,  and  put  in  the  tomatoes.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  French  dressing.  Let  the  stuffing  rise  above  the 
tomato. 

SALAD  IN  TOMATO  CUPS 

6  tomatoes  i  cup  diced  apples 

J^.  cup  diced  cucumbers  i  cup  cream  dressing 

I  cup  cut  celery  i  teaspoonful  salt 

Select  firm,  well-shaped  tomatoes.  Cut  off  the  stem,  and 
remove  the  pulp.  Prepare  the  cucumbers,  celery  and  apples. 
Mix  with  these  vegetables  the  tomato  pulp  and  thpn  with 
the  cream  dressing  and  the  salt.  Fill  the  tomato  cups  with 
this. 

TOMATO  AND  CHEESE  SALAD 

Scald  and  peel  firm  tomatoes.  When  cold,  cut  in  six  sec- 
tions which  remain  joined  at  the  stem  end.  Mix  a  cream 
cheese  with  enough  spinach  extract  to  color  it  a  delicate 
green,  mold  into  balls  the  size  of  marbles  and  put  three 
balls  in  center  of  each  tomato.     Serve  with  French  dressing. 

TOMATO  AND  CORN  SALAD 

Scald  and  peel  tomatoes  of  a  uniform  size  and  from  the 
stem  end  remove  some  of  the  pulp.  Fill  with  a  spoonful 
of  cooked  corn  cut  from  the  cob  when  cold,  cover  with  a 
cheese  dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Dust  the  to- 
mato with  salt  and  pepper  before  the  filling  is  put  in  and  sea- 
son the  corn  well.  It  is  well  to  put  the  tomatoes  on  ice  for 
half  an  hour  after  they  have  been  scalded  and  peeled  to  make 
them  firmer.  Sprinkle  finely  chopped  parsley  over  the 
stuffing  for  a  touch  of  color. 


SALADS  19s 

JELLIED  TOMATO  SALAD 

Soak  half  a  box  of  vegetable  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  warm 
water  until  dissolved;  when  cold  add  it  to  one  pint  of  well 
seasoned  tomato  sauce  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  set.  ^Pour 
into  a  wet  border  mold  and  leave  until  set.  Turn  it  out  on 
a  dish,  cut  celery  into  one  inch  lengths,  mix  it  with  cream 
dressing  and  put  in  the  center  of  the  mold.  Serve  with  small 
lettuce  leaves  around  the  dish. 

JELLIED  TOMATO  AND  CUCUMBERS 
Make  the  tomato  jelly  as  above  and  put  in  a  cool  place 
until  firm.  Chop  four  large  cucumbers  rather  fine  and 
mix  them  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  French  dressing. 
Turn  the  jelly  on  a  dish  when  set,  and  fill  the  center  with  cu- 
cumbers. Serve  with  cheese  dressing  and  garnish  with  let- 
tuce or  cress. 

ALLIGATOR  PEAR  SALAD 
Pare  and  core  an  alligator  pear  and  divide  ■  it  in  half. 
Serve  on  lettuce  with  French  dressing  poured  over  it. 

APPLE  AND  CHEESE  SALAD 

Mix  chopped  nuts  with  Neufchatel  or  cream  cheese,  add- 
ing a  little  cream  if  necessary,  season  with  paprika  and  salt, 
and  cut  into  cubes.  Peel  and  dice  four  apples  and  marinate 
them  with  lemon  juice  to  prevent  discoloration.  Arrange 
the  cheese  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  put  the  diced  apple  in  the 
center.     Serve  with  French  dressing  made  with  lemon  juice. 

APPLE  AND  CELERY  SALAD 

2  cups  diced  apples  2  cups  cut  celery 

I  cup  cream  salad  dressing 

To  prepare  the  apples,  peel  and  cut  as  nearly  as  possible 
into  half-inch  cubes.  Marinate  the  apples  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lemon  juice.     Mix  well  in  order  to  prevent  discolora- 


196  MEATLESS  COOKERYi 

tion.  Cut  the  celery  quite  finely  and  mix  witH  the  apples. 
Mix  these  ingredients  with  the  cream  salad  dressing  and 
serve  with  a  garnish  of  lettuce. 

APPLE  AND  GRAPE  SALAD 

Pare  apples  and  dice  them.  Wash  the  grapes,  cut  them 
in  two  and  remove  the  stones.  Mix  the  fruit  and  serve  on 
lettuce  leaves.     Moisten  with  French  dressing. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

Mix  one  cup  of  diced  oranges,  one  cup  of  diced  apples, 
one  cup  of  diced  bananas  and  half  a  cup  of  stoned  cherries. 
Any  fruit  may  be  combined  as,  grapes  cut  and  seeded,  grape- 
fruit diced,  oranges  and  berries.  Put  in  a  bowl  and  pour 
over  them  a  French  dressing.     Serve  cold. 

CHEESE  WITH  SALADS 

Cheese  or  cheese  dishes  are  an  acceptable  addition  to 
salads.  Neufchatel  or  other  cream  cheese,  either  plain  or 
mixed  with  pimientos  and  olives,  may  be  served  with  let- 
tuce or  may  be  cut  into  slices  and  served  on  lettuce. 

Cheese  balls  are  often  served  with  salad.  They  are  made 
of  some  soft  cream  dieese  and  are  frequently  combined  with 
chopped  chives,  olives,  sweet  peppers,  chopped  nuts,  etc.,  for 
the  sake  of  adding  flavor.  Spinach  extract,  etc.,  is  some- 
times mixed  in  for  the  sake  of  color.  If  the  balls  are  rolled 
in  chopped  chives  or  parsley,  both  flavor  and  color  are  sup- 
plied. 

CHEESE  AND  PIMIENTO  SALAD 

Stuff  canned  pimientos  with  cream  cheese,  cut  into  slices, 
and  serve  one  or  two  slices  to  each  person  on  lettuce  with 
French  dressing.  Watercress  or  endive  may  be  used  instead 
of  lettuce. 


SALADS  197 

CHEESE  SALAD  NO.  i 
Put  lettuce  leaves  in  a  strainer  and  wash  them.  Soften  a 
cream  cheese  with  a  half  pint  of  cream.  Put  it  on  a  dish, 
make  a  depression  in  the  center  and  fill  with  two  glasses  of 
Bar-le-Duc  jelly.  Garnish  with  the  lettuce  and  serve  with 
French  dressing. 

CHEESE  SALAD  NO.  2 

J4  pound    of    American  cheese     J^   tablespoonful  vegetable  gela- 

grated  tine 

Yi  pint  whipped  cream  2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water 
Salt  and  paprika 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  boiling  water  and  strain. 
Mix  th^  cheese  with  the  whipped  cream  and  season  with  salt 
and  paprika.  Add  the  gelatine  and  pour  into  a  wet  mold 
and  allow  it  to  become  firm.  Turn  out  on  a  dish  and  gar- 
nish with  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  a  cheese  dress- 
ing. 

CHEESE  SALAD  NO.  3 

Cut  Neufchatel  or  Edam  cheese  into  oblong  pieces  three- 
fourths  of  an  inch  in  length.  Arrange  on  head  lettuce  and 
serve  with  French  dressing. 

BULGARIAN  SALAD 

I  cup  chopped  pecans  J4  cup  cream 

I  cup  cream  cheese,  diced  2  tablespoonsfuls  lemon  juice 

J4  cup  cream  dressing 

Marinate  the  cheese  and  nuts  with  the  lemon  juice.  Add 
the  cream  to  the  cream  dressing  and  stir  until  smooth.  Mix 
the  cheese  and  nuts  with  the  dressing.  Serve  upon  a  let- 
tuce leaf. 

Cut  stalks  of  celery  having  deep  grooves  in  them  into 
pieces  about  two  inches  long.  Fill  the  grooves  with  cream 
cheese  salted  or  flavored  with  chopped  pimientos,  and  served 


198  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

with  bread  and  butter  as  a  salad  course  or  serve  as  a  relish 
at  the  beginning  of  a  meal. 

ROQUEFORT  SALAD 

Fill  cold  and  peeled  tomatoes  with  grated  Roquefort 
cheese  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  French  dressing. 
Cheese  salads  can  be  varied  by  adding  chopped  onion,  olives, 
peppers,  parsley,  chives,  pimientos  or  capers. 

CHEESE  SALAD  AND  PRESERVES 

Epicures  have  devised  a  dish  which  consists  of  lettuce  with 
French  dressing  served  with  cream  cheese  and  thick  prepara- 
tions of  currants  or  other  fruits  preserved  in  honey  or  sugar, 
which,  owing  to  the  fact  that  the  seeds  have  been  e-^tracted 
by  a  laborious  process,  are  fairly  expensive.  The  soft 
cheese  often  found  in  market  is  also  relatively  expensive. 
There  is  a  suggestion  in  this  dish,  however,  for  others  which 
are  much  less  costly.  Buttermilk  cream  or  ordinary  cottage 
cheese  served  with  lettuce  or  other  green  salad  and  a  small 
amount  of  rich  homemade  preserves,  is  a  combination  with 
much  the  same  character,  and  also  very  appetizing. 

CHEESE  AND  OLIVE  SALAD 

Mash  a  cream  cheese,  and  season  with  salt  and  paprika. 
Add  4  finely  chopped  olives,  4  lettuce  leaves  finely  cut,  and 
a  piece  of  canned  pimiento  to  give  color.  Press  in  original 
shape  of  cheese  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Cut  in  slices  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  French  dressing. 

PHILADELPHIA  SALAD 

Peel  and  dice  one  grapefruit,  cut  In  halves  and  seed  a  cup 
of  grapes,  dice  one  orange,  shred  a  pineapple,  and  mix  with 
half  a  cup  of  English  walnuts  and  cream  nuts.  Place  all  in 
a  bowl,  and  pour  over  French  dressing.  Garnish  with  en- 
dive. 


SALADS  199 

POTATO  AND  ENDIVE  SALAD 

Dice  four  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  marinate  with  French 
dressing  to  which  has  been  added  one  tablespoonful  of  onion 
juice.  Put  the  potatoes  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  minced  parsley 
over  them,  garnish  with  endive  and  serve  with  French  dress- 
ing. 

GERMAN  POTATO  SALAD 

Slice  enough  cold  boiled  potatoes  to  make  one  quart. 
Grate  one-half  of  a  small  onion  over  them,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pour  slowly  over  them  all  one-fourth  cup  of  pure  olive 
oil,  stirring  lightly  with  a  fork  until  each  slice  glistens  with 
the  oil.  Then  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  stir  once  more. 
Set  on  ice  for  an  hour  or  so  before  serving. 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD 

I  head  cauliflower  Lettuce 

Cream  dressing 

Remove  the  green  leaves  from  the  cauliflower  and  place 
it  head  down  in  cold  water  to  which  has  been  added  one 
tablespoonful  of  salt  to  one  quart  of  water.  Soak  one-half 
hour  or  more  to  drive  out  any  insects  that  may  have  found 
their  way  into  the  flowerets.  Cut  into  small  sections  or 
flowerets.  Cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  until  tender. 
Drain,  cool  and  serve  on  individual  salad  plates  with  a  gar- 
nish of  lettuce.  Arrange  one  or  two  flowerets  upon  the 
plate,  and  serve  with  a  spoonful  of  dressing  at  the  side  and 
on  top  of  it. 

BANANA  SALAD 

Peel  the  bananas,  cut  them  into  halves,  and  marinate  them 
in  French  dressing.  Put  the  fruit  in  a  bowl  lined  with  let- 
tuce leaves,  add  one  grapefruit  cut  into  dice  and  a  cup  of 
chopped  nuts  sprinkled  over  the  top.  Serve  with  cream 
dressing. 


200  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

BANANA  AND  WALNUT  SALAD 

3  bananas  2  tablespoonfuls  cream  dressing 

2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  English     i  scant  tablespoonful  cream 
walnuts  I  teaspoonful  sugar 

Mix  the  cream  dressing  with  the  cream  and  sugar.  Peel 
and  cut  the  bananas  into  halves  lengthwise.  Place  one-half 
of  a  banana  on  a  lettuce  leaf  and  pour  over  it  a  generous 
spoonful  of  the  dressing.  Sprinkle  each  half  with  a  tea- 
jspoonful  of  the  chopped  English  walnuts. 

BERKELEY  SALAD 

1  cup  diced  pineapple  i  cup  pineapple  juice 

2  cups  diced  oranges  I  cup  hot  water 

I  cup  diced  bananas  3  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch    ' 

I  cup  seeded  Malaga  grapes  J^  cup  sugar 

Mix  the  cornstarch  and  sugar  and  pour  over  them,  stir- 
ring constantly,  the  hot  water.  Cook  directly  over  the  fire 
for  from  five  to  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  the  stove.  Add 
pineapple  juice  and  lemon  juice,  and  cool.  Prepare  the 
fruit  by  dicing  the  pineapple,  fresh  or  canned,  oranges  and 
the  bananas.  Remove  the  Malaga  grapes  from  the  stem, 
wash  thoroughly,  peel  and  cut  in  halves.  Remove  the  seeds 
and  add  to  the  other  fruits.  Pour  the  dressing  over  the 
salad  and  serve  upon  a  plate.  Garnish  with  grape  leaves 
or  any  preferred  garnish. 

DATE  AND  WALNUT  SALAD 

Select  firm,  well-shaped  dates.  Immerse  in  cold  water, 
remove  the  stones  and  wash  in  very  hot  water.  Cool  and 
dry  between  cool  towels.  Fill  the  center  of  each  date  with 
half  of  an  English  walnut  meat.  Prepare  cream  dressing. 
Arrange  the  dates  on  garnished  individual  salad  plates  and 
pour  over  these  the  dressing.  Endive  gives  a  better  color 
contrast  with  the  dates  than  lettuce. 


SALADS  20 1 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD 

Cook  the  asparagus  until  tender.  Cut  off  any  hard  part 
and  put  the  asparagus  stalks  in  a  neat  pile  on  lettuce  leaves, 
and  pour  over  French  dressing. 

SUMMER  SALAD 

I  cup  diced  cucumbers  i  cup  cream  dressing 

I  cup  cut  celery  1  dozen  medium-sized  lettuce 

I  cup  diced  radishes  leaves 

J4  cup  grated  onion 

Select  as  firm,  fresh  vegetables  as  possible.  If  not 
strittly  fresh,  place  in  cold  water  for  one-half  hour  or  more. 
Peel  the  cucumbers  and  cut  in  one-half  inch  cubes.  Wash 
and  scrape  the  celery  to  free  it  of  the  coarse  fiber.  Cut 
quite  finely.  Wash  and  brush  the  radishes.  Cut  off  the  top 
and  stem  end  and  cut  into  cubes  without  peeling.  The  red 
radishes  add  a  bit  of  color  to  the  salad.  Cleanse  the  let- 
tuce by  washing  in  several  waters,  and  shred  very  finely  with 
sharp  shears.  Prepare  the  grated  onion  and  mix  with  the 
other  vegetables.  Blend  all  together  with  the  dressing. 
Serve  upon  a  lettuce  leaf. 

CELERY  SALAD 

3  cups  cut  celery  i  cup  cream  dressing 

Mix  the  celery  with  the  cream  dressing.  Garnish  with 
water  cress  or  celery  tops. 

CELERY  AND  TOMATO  SALAD 

I  pint  diced  fresh  tomatoes  %  cuP  dressing 

J^  cup  celery 

Peel  the  tomatoes  and  cut  into  three-fourth  inch  cubes,  re- 
jecting the  seedy  portion.  Clean  the  celery  and  cut  into 
half-inch  lengths.  Add  to  the  tomatoes  and  mix  with  the 
cream  dressing.     Garnish  and  serve. 


202  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

BEETS  AND  PEAS  IN  ASPIC 

3  red  beets  j/s  package  vegetable  gelatine 

1  can  French  peas  i  cup  boiling  water 

I  dozen  ripe  olives  Juice  2  lemons 

Wash  and  cook  two  beets  In  boiling  v^ater  until  tender. 
Peel  and  cut  into  cubes  and  marinate  with  the  juice  of  one 
lemon.  Peel  one  beet  and  cut  into  small  cubes.  Cover  with 
I  y2  cups  of  cold  water  and  let  simmer  ten  or  fifteen  minutes 
until  the  water  is  a  rich  red  color.  Drain  and  measure. 
There  should  be  one  cupful.  Soak  the  vegetable  gelatine 
in  warm  water  twenty  minutes.  Drain  and  cook  in  the  boil- 
ing water  eight  to  ten  minutes.  Strain  and  add  one-half 
cup  to  the  beet  water.  To  this  jelly  add  the  beets  and  sliced 
olives. 

Drain  the  juice  from  one  can  of  French  peas  and  marinate 
the  peas  with  the  juice  from  one  lemon.  To  one  cup  of 
juice  drained  from  the  peas,  add  the  remainder  of  the  cooked 
vegetable  gelatine.  Then  add  the  peas  and  fill  a  mold 
half  full  of  this  mixture.  As  this  begins  to  solidify,  add 
carefully  enough  of  the  beet  mixture  to  fill  the  mold.  When 
solidified,  turn  out  upon  a  plate  and  garnish  with  slices  of 
lemon. 

FRENCH  SALAD 

1  pint  cold  diced  potatoes  J4  cup  grated  onion 

^2  cup  diced  cucumbers  i  cup  crearfi  dressing 

'j4  cup  diced  radishes  Salt  to  taste 

I  cup  celery 

Cook  the  potatoes  In  boiling,  salted  water.  When  cold, 
cut  into  half-Inch  cubes.  Peel  the  cucumber,  cut  Into  small 
cubes  and  throw  Into  cold  water  until  ready  for  use.  Pre- 
pare the  radishes  In  the  same  way.  If  the  radishes  are  very 
tender,  the  skin  may  be  left  on  to  give  a  bit  of  color  to  the 
salad.     Chop  the  celery  quite  fine,  remove  the  vegetables 


SALADS  203 

from  the  water,  and  dry  upon  clean  towels.  Add  them  to 
the  potatoes.  Add  the  grated  onions  (the  onion  may  be 
omitted) ,  and  mix  all  the  ingredients  with  the  cream  dress- 
ing. Garnish  with  qdsp,  tender  lettuce  and  red  radishes 
with  the  skin  trimmed  back  from,  the  root  end  in  such  a  way 
as  to  represent  a  blossom. 

PEAS  AND  CELERY  SALAD 

I  can  peas  i  cup  cream  dressing 

i]/i  cups  chopped  celery  i  onion 

yi  teaspoon  salt 

Drain  the  juice  from  one  can  of  peas,  wash,  drain  again. 
Add  to  the  peas  the  grated  onion,  salt,  and  chopped  celery. 
Mix  all  with  the  cream  dressing,  scant  measure,  and  gar- 
nish with  lettuce. 

BEET  SALAD 

Prepare  the  desired  number  of  beets  by  washing  carefully, 
and  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  from  one  to  four  hours  or 
until  the  beets  are  perfettly  tender.  Remove  from  the  hot 
water,  and  take  off  the  skins.  Cut  in  half  the  round  way  of 
the  beets.  For  each  serving  place  the  two  halves  on  a  let- 
tuce leaf  on  a  salad  plate.  Between  the  two,  pile  cream 
dressing  and  arrange  sliced,  ripe  olives  over  the  dressing. 


SALAD  DRESSINGS 

Of  herbs,  and  other  country  messes, 
iVVhich  the  neat-handed  Phillis  dresses. 

Milton. 

GARLIC  DRESSING 
Slice  and  cut  a  clove  of  garlic  and  mash  it  to  a  paste. 
Add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper, 
quarter  of  a  teaspoon  of  paprika  and  one  tablespoon  of  to- 
mato catsup.  Add  five  tablespoons  of  oil  gradually  and  one 
tablespoon  of  lemon  juice.  Beat  with  a  silver  fork  or 
Dover  egg  beater. 

FRENCH  DRESSING  NO.  i 

Put  four  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  in  a  bowl  with  one  table- 
spoon of  white  wine  vinegar,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and 
a  saltspoon  of  paprika.  Mix  with  a  small  size  Dover  egg 
beater. 

FRENCH  DRESSING  NO.  2 
Put  one  teaspoon  of  salt  in  a  bowl  with  one  saltspoon  of 
paprika  and  black  pepper,  add  four  tablespoons  of  oil  and 
mix  well,  beating  with  a  silver  fork.  Then  add  slowly  one 
tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  and  the  dressing  will 
become  white  and  thicker.  The  ingredients  should  be  so 
well  proportioned  and  blended  that  no  one  ingredient  can 
be  distinguished. 

FRENCH  DRESSING  NO.  3 

I  tablespoon  lemon  juice  J4  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  A  few  drops  onion  juice 

204 


SALAD  DRESSINGS  205 

Dissolve  the  salt  in  the  lemon  juice,  add  the  onion  and 
then  the  oil.  If  desired,  the  oil  or  lemon  juice  may  be  in- 
creased. 

RIPE  OLIVE  DRESSING 

Add  to  French  dressing  No.  i  one  large  onion  grated  and 
a  dozen  ripe  olives  stoned  and  chopped  fine. 

DELMONICO  DRESSING 

Put  some  chopped  chives  in  the  bottom  of  the  bowl  with  a 
chopped  beet,  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper. 
Add  six  tablespoons  of  oil  and  stir  with  a  fork  until  well 
mixed.  Then  add  slowly  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and 
chill  the  dressing  before  serving. 

CHEESE  DRESSING 

Cut  a  cream  cheese  in  half  and  rub  one-half  to  a  paste, 
with  four  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  and  one  of  white  wine 
vinegar,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  one  teaspoon  of 
salt.  It  should  have  the  consistency  of  Mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. 

VINAIGRETTE  DRESSING 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

y^  teaspoon  paprika  4  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Yi  teaspoon  finely  chopped  pars-  i  tablespoon   finely  chopped  red 

ley  pepper 

Mix  the  ingredients  with  a  small  Dover  egg  beater. 

PARISIAN  DRESSING 

Beat  together  one  tablespoon  of  pear  vinegar,  four  of  olive 
oil,  and  one  teaspoon  each  of  chopped  parsley,  capers  and 
olives. 

Add  one  saltspoon  of  salt,  paprika  and  a  few  drops  of 
onion  juice. 


2o6  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

BUTTERMILK  CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING 

Yi  cup  of  buttermilk  cream  ^  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  tablespoon  of  vinegar  Cayenne  pepper 

This  dressing  is  particularly  suitable  for  serving  with  cu- 
cumbers. 

BUTTERMILK  CREAM  HORSERADISH  DRESSING 

To  buttermilk  cream  add  a  little  grated  horseradish  and 
vinegar  and  salt.     Serve  on  whole  or  sliced  tomatoes. 

CREAM  DRESSING 

6  tablespoons  heavy  cream  J^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  A  few  grains  of  cayenne 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Beat  the  cream  until  stiff,  using  a  small  size  Dover  egg 
beater.  Add  the  seasoning,  oil  and  vinegar  slowly  and  beat 
until  well  blended. 

CREAM  FRENCH  DRESSING 

Yi.  teaspoon  salt  i  tablespoon   vinegar   or   lemon 

Yi  teaspoon  paprika  juice 

4  tablespoons  heavy  cream 

Mix  the  first  three  ingredients  until  well  blended,  then  add 
the  cream  beaten  until  stiff. 

SOUR  CREAM  DRESSING 

y^  pint  sour  cream  i  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  %  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  I  teaspoon  or  more  mixed  mus- 

I  scant  tablespoon  sugar  tard 

Beat  the  cream  with  an  egg  beater  till  smooth,  thick  and 
light.  Mix  the  other  ingredients  together,  and  gradually 
add  to  the  cream,  beating  all  the  while. 

Having  beaten  sour  cream  for  a  foundation  the  season- 
ing may  be  anything  desired,  as,  for  example,  the  mustard 


SALAD  DRESSINGS  207 

and  lemon  may  be  omitted,  and  the  dressing  be  seasoned 
highly  with  any  kind  of  catsup. 

A  sweet  cream  may  be  substituted  for  the  sour ;  it  should 
be  quite  thick. 

CATSUP  DRESSING 

1  cup  cream  —  sweet  or  sour  2  tablespoons  vinegar 
J^  cup  tomato  catsup  2  tablespoons  sugar 

2  tablespoons  olive  oil  I  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  the  oil,  salt,  sugar  and  vinegar  together,  then  beat 
in  the  catsup  and  finally  add  the  cream,  beating  it  gradually. 


SANDWICHES 

Being  used  but  sisterly  salutes  to  feel, 
Insipid  things  —  like  sandwiches  of  veal. 

Hood. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  SANDWICHES 

Butter  bread  slightly,  cut  very  thin  and  put  the  slices  to- 
gether. The  bread  should  be  a  day  old  and  the  butter  should 
be  creamed.  It  is  better  to  butter  the  bread  before  it  is 
cut.     Remove  the  crusts. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  SANDWICHES 

Boston  brown  bread  makes  delicious  sandwiches.  But- 
ter, and  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  add  a  thin  round  of  white 
bread.     Or  omit  the  white  bread  and  fill  with  chopped  nuts. 

FRUIT  SANDWICHES 

Spread  bread  and  butter  sandwiches  with  cooked  dates, 
figs  or  prunes,  moistened  with  a  little  lemon  juice  and 
chopped  fine.     Chopped  nuts  may  be  added. 

LETTUCE  SANDWICHES 

Spread  bread  and  butter  sandwiches  with  a  layer  of  cream 
dressing  and  a  layer  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  washed  and  dried 
thoroughly.  Cress  also  may  be  used.  Trim  the  edges  with 
a  sharp  knife. 

NUT  SAIilDWICHES 
Make  bread  and  butter  sandwiches,  adding  chopped  nuts 
and  chopped  olives  to  the  cream  dressing  with  which  they  are 
spread. 

2o8 


SANDWICHES  209 

I 
SPANISH  SANDWICHES 

Cut  slices  of  graham  bread  very  thin,  butter,*  and  spread 
with  a  layer  of  cottage  cheese  sprinkled  with  salt,  mustard, 
paprika  and  chopped  olives. 

TOMATO  SANDWICHES 

Remove  the  skin  from  a  firm  tomato  and  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Peel  a  cucumber,  cut  in  half  and  remove  the  seeds  and  chop 
fine.  Lay  the  tomato  between  slices  of  buttered  bread,  cover 
with  the  cucumber  and  season  well  with  black  pepper  and 
salt. 

JELLY  SANDWICHES 

Spread  sandwiches  with  jam  or  fruit  jelly  and  sprinkle 
with  finely  chopped  English  walnuts;  or  instead  of  the  nuts 
spread  a  thin  layer  of  cream  cheese. 

MARMALADE  SANDWICHES 
Butter  and  cut  white  bread  in  thin  slices,  spread  with 
orange  or  quince  marmalade,  cover  with  thin  slices  of  brown 
bread. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  SANDWICHES 

Mix  a  cream  cheese  with  two  scant  tablespoons  of  peanut 
butter,  and  blend  thoroughly.  Season  with  salt  and  spread 
between  thin  slices  of  buttered  graham  bread. 

GOVERNMENT  SANDWICHES 

Mash  a  cream  cheese,  and  add  chopped  olives  and  pimien- 
tos  in  equal  parts.  Season  well  with  salt  and  paprika. 
Spread  between  slices  of  bread,  remove  crusts,  and  cut  in 
fancy  shapes  or  roll. 

TOASTED  SANDWICHES 

Mix  a  cream  cheese  with  a  little  Frencb  dressing.  Spread 
thin  slices  of  white  bread  with  the  mixture  and  sprinkle  with 
chopped  nuts.     Cover  with  bread  and  toast  over  a  hot  fire. 


2IO  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

FLAVORED  BUTTER  SANDWICHES 

Cream  butter  with  some  flavoring  extract  such  as  vanilla, 
orange  water,  etc.,  and  spread  on  white  bread  cut  in  thin 
slices  and  rolled.     Sandwiches  should  always  be  dainty. 

CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

Mash  or  grate  American  cheese,  add  salt,  a  few  drops  of 
vinegar,  and  paprika,  with  a  speck  of  mustard.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

CHEESE  PASTE  FOR  SANDWICHES 

6  ounces  grated  cheese  4  tablespoons  tomato  puree 

Pepper,  salt 

Mix  the  grated  cheese  to  a  smooth  paste  with  the  tomato 
puree;  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  The  paste  will  keep 
for  three  or  four  days,  but  it  must  be  kept  covered.  Spread 
on  thin  bread  and  butter. 

CUBAN  SANDWICHES 

This  sandwich  may  be  described  as  a  sort  of  club  sand- 
wich with  cheese.  It  is  usually  made  large  so  that  it  is 
necessary  to  eat  it  with  a  knife  and  fork.  It  may  be  made 
in  such  proportions  as  to  supply  a  large  amount  of  nourish- 
ment. 

Cut  the  crusts  from  slices  of  bread.  Between  two  slices 
lay  first  lettuce  with  a  little  salad  dressing,  then  a  slice  of 
soft  mild  cheese,  and  finally  thin  slices  of  dill  pickles  or  a 
little  chopped  pickle. 

TOASTED  CHEESE  SANDWICHES 
Plain  bread  and  butter  sandwiches  with  fairly  thick  slices 
of  cheese  put  between  the  slices  are  toasted,  or  at  chafing- 
dish  suppers  may  be  browned  in  a  pan.     Use  a  slow  heat 
that  the  cheese  may  be  melted  when  the  bread  is  browned. 


SANDWICHES  211 

CUCUMBER  SANDWICHES 

Slices  of  cucumber  Thin  bread  and  butter 

Grated  cheese  Pepper,  salt 

Take  some  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter.  Sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese,  and  dust  a  very  little  pepper  over  them.  Lay 
very  thinly  sliced  cucumber  over  this,  and  cover  them  with 
more  bread  and  butter;  press  them  slightly  together,  and 
cut  off  the  crust.     Cut  Into  shapes,  and  serve  on  a  doily. 

MUSTARD  AND  CRESS  SANDWICHES 

Bread  and  butter  Mustard  and  cress 

Cut  some  neat  slices  of  bread  and  butter,  and  cover  them 
with  equal  parts  of  mustard  and  cress.  Cover  them  with 
more  slices  of  plain  bread  and  butter.  Press  them  lightly 
together  and  cut  In  neat  three-cornered  pieces. 

The  long  stalks  should  be  cut  away  from  the  mustard  and 
cress  before  it  Is  used  for  the  sandwiches ;  when  it  has  been 
very  carefully  washed,  it  should  be  dried  on  a  clean  towel. 

NUT  PASTE  FOR  SANDWICHES 

2  ounces  of  pine  kernels  4  drops  of  rose  water 

2  ounces  of  almonds  Juice  of  i  orange 

Thoroughly  grind  the  nuts  by  putting  them  twice  through 
a  nut  mill.  Put  them  on  a  plate;  add  the  rose  water,  and 
mash  them  well  with  a  knife,  or  a  wooden  spoon;  add  the 
orange  juice  last,  and  put  into  small  pots  and  serve  like 
potted  meat. 


TOASTS 

Though  we  eat  little  flesh  and  drink  no  wine, 
Yet  let's  be  merry ;  we'll  have  tea  and  toast. 

Shelley, 

DRY  TOAST 

Cut  the  bread  in  one-quarter-inch  slices  and  remove  the 
crusts.  Place  in  a  wire  toaster,  and  hold  over  the  fire  turn- 
ing often  some  distance  from  the  coals.  When  dry,  hold 
nearer  to  the  coals,  and  color  a  golden  brown,  first  on  one 
side  and  then  on  the  other. 

CREAMED  TOAST 

1  pint  of  milk  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  i  teaspoon  salt 

'  6  to  8  slices  of  bread 

Make  a  thin,  white  sauce  of  the  milk,  butter,  Hour  and 
salt.  Toast  the  bread,  preferably  until  crisp.  Pour  over 
this  the  white  sauce.     Serve  at  once. 

CHEESE  ON  TOAST 

2  ounces  of  grated  cheese  A  slice  of  buttered  toast 

2  tablespoons  milk  Pepper,  salt  and  mustard 

Grate  two  ounces  of  any  kind  of  dry  cheese,  or,  if  the 
cheese  is  too  new  to  grate,  put  through  a  ricer.  Put  the 
cheese  in  a  small  stewpan  with  the  milk,  and  very  little  salt, 
pepper  and  mustard.  Stir  over  the  fire  or  a  gas-ring  until  it 
is  quite  melted.  Have  ready  a  piece  of  buttered  toast  about 
four  inches  square.  Pour  the  cheese  evenly  over  the  toast, 
and  serve  as  quickly  as  possible  on  a  hot  water  dish. 

212 


TOASTS  213 

CHEESE  AND  ONION  ON  TOAST 

A  slice  of  buttered  toast  J^  pint  of  milk 

2  ounces  of  grated  cheese  J4  pint  of  onions 

Pepper  and  salt 

Prepare  the  toast. 

The  onions  must  be  weighed  after  they  are  peeled.  Slice 
them,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water.  Let  them  boil  up 
quickly;  then  drain  them  well.  Chop  them  a  little,  and  put 
them  with  the  milk,  bringing  them  quickly  to  a  boiling  point; 
then  stew  gently  until  quite  tender,  which  should  be  about 
half  an  hour.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  add  the 
cheese  stirring  until  it  is  melted.  Pour  over  the  toast,  and 
serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

BAKED  TOMATO  ON  TOAST 

6  slices  of  bread  i  tablespoon  butter  1 

6  thick  slices  of  tomatoes  ^  cup  milk 

Yi  teaspoon  salt 

Trim  the  crust  from  the  bread  and  toast  to  an  even  brown. 
Select  firm  ripe  tomatoes.  Remove  the  stem,  and  cut  into 
two  or  three  slices  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  tomato. 
The  slices  should  be  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick. 
Place  the  tomatoes  in  a  buttered  pan;  sprinkle  with  salt, 
and  dot  each  slice  with  a  bit  of  butter.  Bake  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Moisten  the  toast  by 
dipping  quickly  into  the  hot  milk.  Place  a  slice  of  baked 
tomato  on  each  slice  of  toast.  Garnish  with  a  sprig  of 
parsley. 

DATE  TOAST 
2  cups  of  dates  4  tablespoons  milk         ' 

Water  1  tablespoon  cream 

Toast 

Immerse  the  dates  in  cold  water,  remove  the  stones  and 
wash  in  hot  water.     Cook  the  dates  in  an  equal  quantity  of 


214  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

boiling  water  until  they  are  very  soft  and  quite  thick.  Put 
them  through  a  colander,  and  add  the  milk  and  cream.  Pour 
this  over  crisp  toasted  bread. 

PRUNE  TOAST 

Wash,  and  soak  sweet  California  prunes  over  night  in  cold 
water.  Simmer  on  the  back  of  the  range  for  one  to  two 
hours,  or  until  perfectly  tender.  Remove  the  seeds,  and 
rub  the  prunes  through  a  colander.  When  ready  to  serve, 
dip  thoroughly  toasted  slices  of  bread  or  zwieback  quickly 
in  hot  milk.  Serve  as  individual  portions  on  small  plates. 
Over  each  slice  put  a  spoonful  of  the  prune  puree.  If  de- 
sired this  may  be  served  with  thin  cream. 

FRUIT  TOAST 

For  each  serving,  allow  one  slice  of  crisp  toasted  bread 
and  one-half  cup  of  a  fruit  sauce  such  as  apple  sauce,  peach 
sauce,  etc.  If  berries  or  fruit  juices  are  used,  thicken  with 
cornstarch  in  the  proportion  of  two  teaspoons  of  cornstarch 
to  one  of  the  liquid  or  sauce.  If  desired  two  slices  of 
breakfast  toast  or  one  slice  of  zwieback  may  be  substituted 
for  the  toasted  bread. 

RUSSIAN  TOAST 

1  cup  cottage  cheese  J4  cup  cream  dressing 

2  slices  bread 

Trim  the  crusts  from  the  bread,  and  cut  into  two  oblong 
pieces.  Toast  to  a  nice  brown,  and  moisten  slightly  with 
hot  water.  Mix  the  cottage  cheese  with  the  cream  dress- 
ing, and  serve  a  spoonful  upon  each  slice  of  toast.  This 
makes  a  nice  relish,  having  much  the  same  flavor  as  caviar. 

CHEESE  AND  TOMATO  TOAST 

A  slice  of  buttered  toast  4  tablespoons  of  tomato  puree 

Pepper  and  salt 


TOASTS  215 

Make  a  slice  of  toast  an  inch  thick  from  a  square 
loaf,  and  butter  it  well.  Put  the  tomato  puree  in  a  small 
stewpan  with  the  grated  cheese  and  a  little  pepper.  Stir 
over  the  fire  until  the  butter  is  melted;  then  spread  evenly 
over  the  toast,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

CREAMED  CELERY  ON  TOAST 

3  cups  cut  celery  i  tablespoon  butter 

I  cup  milk  I  tablespoon  flour 

J4  teaspoon  salt 
Clean,  scrape  and  cut  enough  celery  to  make  three  cups. 
Cook  until  tender  in  boiling,  salted  water,  which  will  require 
about  forty-five  minutes.  Let  the  water  boil  away  when 
done,  leaving  the  celery  with  very  little  liquid.  Prepare  a 
thin  white  sauce  of  the  remaining  ingredients,  and  pour  over 
the  celery.  Prepare  the  toast  by  trimming  the  crust  from 
thin  slices  of  bread.  Cut  diagonally,  making  triangular- 
shaped  pieces  of  toast.  Toast  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
crisp.  Dip  slices  of  crisp  toast  into  some  hot  milk  or  cream. 
Serve  with  a  spoonful  of  the  creamed  celery  upon  each  slice. 

CREAMED  SPINACH  ON  TOAST 

I  pint  cooked  or  canned  spinach      i  cup  white  sauce 
Toast  /4  teaspoon  salt 

Drain  the  liquid  from  the  spinach,  and  chop.  Prepare 
the  white  sauce,  and' add  the  spinach  to  it.  Add  salt,  and 
reheat.  Trim  the  crusts  from  the  bread.  Cut  into  trian- 
gular shaped  pieces,  and  toast  in  a  slow  oven  until  crisp  and 
nicely  browned.  Moisten  it  in  a  little  hot  milk  or  cream, 
and  serve  a  spoonful  of  the  creamed  spinach  upon  each  slice. 

ONIONS  ON  TOAST 

I  dozen  small  Spanish  onions  i  pint  of  white  sauce  or  cream 

6  slices  of  toast  sauce 

Remove  the  skins  of  the  onions  under  cold  water;  cook  in 


2i6  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

boiling,  salted  water  five  minutes;  pour  off  the  cold  water, 
drain,  cover  again  with  boiling,  salted  water.  Cook  one 
hour  or  until  tender  throughout,  but  not  so  soft  that  the 
shape  is  lost.  Drain  and  serve  two  or  three  onions  upon 
each  slice  of  moistened  toast.  Prepare  the  sauce,  and  serve 
one  or  two  spoonfuls  of  it  upon  each  serving. 

CREAMED  OKRA  ON  TOAST 

To  cook  the  okra  pods  put  them  in  boiling  water,  using 
one  teaspoon  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water ;  add  one  tablespoon 
of  lemon  juice  to  the  water  also.  Cook  about  one-half  hour 
or  until  the  okra  is  tender.  Drain  the  water  from  the  okra, 
reserving  one  cup  of  it  for  the  sauce.  Prepare  the  sauce  as 
follows : 

I  cup  water  from  the  okra  %.  cup  milk 

^.  cup  cream  J4  cup  strained  tomatoes 

I  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Heat  the  okra  water,  the  cream  and  milk  in  a  double 
boiler.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together,  and  pour  over  it 
a  little  of  the  heated  liquid,  stirring  meanwhile.  When 
mixed  thin  enough  to  pour,  turn  this  back  into  the  remainder 
of  the  hot  liquid.  Set  in  a  double  boiler,  and  stir  until 
thickened.  Add  the  salt  and  strained  tomato  just  before 
serving.  Place  three  or  four  of  the  okra  pods  on  a  nicely 
toasted  slice  of  bread  for  each  serving,  and  over  this  pour 
a  spoonful  or  more  of  the  prepared  sauce. 

APSLEY  RUSKS 

This  form  of  toasted  bread  is  much  more  easily  digested 
than  toast,  as  it  is  more  completely  cooked.  The  bread  used 
in  making  the  rusks  must  be  at  least  three  or  four  days  old ; 
new  bread  is  difficult  to  cut  into  thin  slices.  The  oven  must 
be  moderate,  and  the  time  taken  in  cooking  will  vary  with 


TOASTS  217 

its  heat,  averaging  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour. 
Cut  the  bread  thin,  and  place  on  the  oven  shelf  or  on  a  slide 
that  fits  on  to  the  oven  shelf,  and  can  be  taken  in  and  out 
easily.  The  rusks  must  be  carefully  watched  and  turned, 
as  they  become  brown  on  one  side,  and  should  be  made  fresh 
each  day. 

CROUTONS 

Cut  some  slices  of  stale  bread  about  half  an  inch  thick. 
If  the  croutons  are  required  for  soup  they  should  be  cut  into 
dice,  but  if  for  garnishing  they  may  be  stamped  into  any 
shape,  or  cut  into  three-cornered  pieces.  Fry  them  in  hot 
salad'  oil,  and  drain  them  on  an  inverted  sieve. 

BREAD-RASPINGS 
All  pieces  of  bread  should  be  put  aside  in  a  clean  bowl, 
and  when  enough  has  been  saved  to  fill  a  good-sized  baking- 
tin,  they  should  be  baked  in  a  slow  oven  until  they  are  a 
rich  golden  color  all  through.  They  should  then  be  rolled 
on  a  pastry-board  —  a  small  quantity  at  a  time  —  until  they 
are  fine  enough  for  use,  and  then  put  into  a  biscuit-box  with 
a  well-fitting  lid,  which  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place.  These 
raspings  are  used  in  many  recipes,  and  a  good  supply  should 
always  be  kept  on  hand.  They  are  not  only  better  and  more 
easily  digested  than  ordinary  bread-crumbs,  but  they  are 
much  more  economical,  and  are  the  means  of  every  scrap 
of  bread  being  utilized.  As  the  rolling  would  scratch  and 
dent  the  board  and  rolling-pin  used  for  pastry, —  and  it  is 
necessary  to  keep  them  perfectly  smooth  —  a  special  rolling- 
pin  and  board  should  be  kept  for  this  purpose. 


MISCELLANEOUS 

A  morsel  for  a  monarch. 

Shakespeare. 

UNCOOKED  CURD,  OR  FRENCH  COTTAGE  CHEESE 
The  French  make  cheese  from  sour  milk  without  heating 
it.  They  pour  the  milk  into  earthen  molds  which  have  holes 
in  the  bottom.  A  very  fine  sieve  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
molds.  The  whey  drips  out,  and  the  curd  assumes  a  cus- 
tard-like consistency,  and  takes  the  shape  of  a  mold.  When 
sufficiently  stiff,  the  cheese  is  chilled,  and  is  eaten  with  sweet 
cream  and  sugar.  It  is  a  staple  dessert  in  many  French  fam- 
ilies, especially  in  hot  weather,  and  is  delicious  served  with 
acid  fruit,  such  as  currants,  or  with  strawberries. 

BUTTERMILK  CHEESE 

To  make  the  buttermilk  cheese,  heat  buttermilk  gradually 
to  about  130  or  140  degrees  F.  Allow  it  to  cool,  and  strain 
it.  As  the  curd  will  settle  to  the  bottom,  most  of  the  whey 
may  be  poured  off  before  the  draining  is  begun. 

This  cheese  is,  of  course,  almost  wholly  without  fat,  and 
yet,  probably  because  the  particles  of  curd  are  very  finely 
divided,  it  has  a  smooth  consistency,  which  suggests  the  pres- 
ence of  fat.  It  may  be  served  seasoned  with  salt  only,  or 
it  may  be  mixed  with  butter  or  cream  and  seasonings.  It  is 
suitable  for  combining  with  olives  and  pimientos,  or  for  any 
use  to  which  the  ordinary  cream  cheeses  are  put. 

CHEESE  WAFERS 
Butter  thin  crackers,  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated 
cheese.     Put  In  the  oven,  and  bake  until  the  cheese  Is  melted 

218 


MISCELLANEOUS  219 

and  the  crackers  are  a  delicate  brown.     Serve  with  salad 
or  soup. 

CHEESE  RELISH 

Spread  bread  which  has  been  toasted  or  fried  In  deep  oil 
with  grated  cheese,  or  with  grated  cheese  mixed  with  a  little 
mustard;  then  heat  in  the  oven  until  the  cheese  is  melted. 
This  may  be  served  with  salad,  or  as  a  relish  to  give  flavor 
to  some  dish  such  as  boiled  rice  or  hominy,  which  has  no  very 
marked  flavor. 

CREAMED  CHEESE  ON  WAFERS 

Mix  Yogurt  or  Neufchatel  cheese  with  just  enough  cream 
to  form  a  heavy  paste.  Mix  until  smooth ;  form  in  rosettes 
by  forcing  through  a  pastry  tube.  Pipe  the  rosette  in  the 
center  of  a  wafer  or  thin  cracker,  and  put  a  bit  of  colored 
jelly  on  two  opposite  corners,  or  if  preferred,  a  small  rosette 
may  be  piped  on  each  corner  and  a  bit  of  bright  colored  jelly 
placed  in  the  center. 

BUTTER  BALLS 

Cut  the  butter  in  small  pieces  the  size  of  the  balls  desired, 
and  put  them  in  ice-water.  Soak  the  butter  paddles  in  boil- 
ing water  ten  minutes ;  then  chill  in  ice  water.  Hold  a  pad- 
dle in  the  left  hand,  put  on  it  a  piece  of  butter  and  roll  with 
the  right  paddle  until  round.  If  butter  sticks,  it  must  be 
chilled  longer,  or  the  paddles  may  be  rubbed  with  salt  and  re- 
heated. 

SALTED  ALMONDS 

I  pint  water  i  cup  almonds 

yi  cup  salt  2  teaspoons  butter  or  oil 

Blanch  the  almonds.  Heat  the  salt  and  water,  and  when 
boiling  add  the  nuts.  Cook  eight  minutes.  Drain,  place 
them  in  a  baking  pan,  and  put  the  butter  or  oil  over  them 
with  a  brush.     Bake  until  a  delicate  brown.     Stir  frequently. 


220  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

CELERY  RELISH 

I  quart  can  tomatoes  i  pint  onions  —  chopped  very  fine 

1  quart    celery  —  chopped    very     2  tablespoons  salt 
fine  ^  cup  lemon  juice 

Cook  the  tomatoes,  celery  and  onions  covered  until  very 
tender  and  quite  thick.  When  almost  done,  add  the  salt. 
Add  the  lemon  juice  at  the  very  last. 

SAVORY  BEET 

I  slice  onion  %  beet  or  i  small  one 

Yt.  teaspoon  salt  J^  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

Yi  teaspoon  Harvey's  sauce  3  tablespoons  cream 

3  tablespoons  milk 
Fry  a  slice  of  onion  in  butter;  then  mix  together  half  a 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  one-half 
teaspoon  Harvey's  sauce,  one  teaspoon  flour,  three  table- 
spoons cream  and  the  same  of  milk,  pour  it  over  the  onion  in 
the  saucepan,  and  boil  five  minutes;  lastly,  slice  in  a  (mod- 
erate sized  boiled  beet.     This  is  to  be  eaten  cold. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

I  pint  condensed  tomato  i  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Yi  cup  lemon  juice  J4  teaspoon  cloves 

4  tablespoons  brown  sugar  4  tablespoons  grated  onion 

Cook  the  condensed  tomato  slowly  one-half  hour.  Add 
the  grated  onion,  sugar,  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  cook  one- 
half  hour  longer.     Then  add  the  lemon  juice. 

Canned  tomatoes  may  be  used  instead  of  condensed  to- 
matoes, in  which  case  it  will  be  necessary  to  use  three  pints. 
Cook  them  until  reduced  to  one  pint.  Rub  them  through  a 
colander,  and  proceed  the  same  as  above  directed. 

POLISH  SALAD 

Soak  six  salt  pickles  in  water  about  six  hours.  Then 
drain.     Chop  two  sour  apples,  one  large  onion,  with  the 


MISCELLANEOUS  221 

pickles,  and  mix  all  thoroughly  in  a  bowl,  and  sprinkle  over 
them  a  scant  half  teaspoon  of  white  pepper,  a  heaping  table- 
spoon sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt  if  necessary.  Pour  enough 
white  wine  vinegar  over  all  to  just  cover. 

PICCALILLI 

Take  one-half  peck  green  tomatoes,  two  cabbages,  nine 
onions,  twelve  cucumbers,  six  green  peppers  and  one-quarter 
pound  mustard  seed.  Chop  all  very  fine.  Make  a  strong 
brine  of  salt  water,  and  boil  the  chopped  piccalilli  in  it  for 
about  five  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  press  out- 
every  drop  of  the  brine ;  then  mix  in  the  mustard  seed,  and 
put  all  in  a  stone  crock.  Boil  a  gallon  of  pickling  vinegar, 
and  pour  over  hot.     It  may  be  used  as  soon  as  cold. 

TO  MAKE  FRESH  CURD 

Take  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  dessertspoon  of  essence  of 
rennet. 

Warm  the  milk  to  blood  heat  on  the  fire,  remove,  and  then 
add  the  rennet;  let  it  stand  aside  until  set,  about  an  hour. 
Place  the  curd  on  a  hair  sieve,  and  put  a  plate  on  top  of  it, 
applying  gentle  pressure  for  about  a  minute,  and  then  place 
a  five  pound  weight  on  the  plate  and  leave  it  to  drip  for  about 
a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Remove  the  weight  and  plate,  scrap- 
ing up  the  curd  into  a  heap,  and  repeat  the  pressing  process, 
in  all  about  three  or  four  times  to  the  hour.  At  the  end  of 
the  hour  an  eleven  pound  weight  may  be  put  on  and  left  on 
for  another  hour,  at  the  end  of  which  time  the  curd  will  be 
free  from  whey  and  of  the  consistency  of  tender  fish.  Fresh 
country  milk  will  take  a  much  less  shorter  time  to  set,  say 
ten  minutes,  and  require  less  rennet.  Another  way  of  get- 
ting the  whey  out  of  the  curd  is  to  hang  it  up  in  a  cheesecloth 
to  drain.  This  will  take  several  hours,  but  the  result  is 
satisfactory.  Curd  may  be  flavored  with  vanilla,  ginger, 
nutmeg,  etc.,  added  to  the  milk  before  warming. 


PIES 

As  many  mince  pies  as  you  taste  at  Christmas,  so  many  happy  months 
you  will  have. 

Old  English  Saying. 

PLAIN  PASTRY 

ij4  cups  pastry  flour  J^  to  J^  cup  butter 

J4  teaspoon  salt  J4  cup  ice  water 

Mix  in  the  order  given. 

All  the  materials  must  be  as  cool  as  possible.  Sift  the 
salt  into  the  flour.  Rub  in  the  butter  with  a  knife,  spoon  or 
the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Add  the  ice  water  a  little  at  a  time, 
making  soft  tiny  masses.  Then  press  these  little  masses 
together.  Toss  upon  a  floured  board,  and  roll  out  with  as 
little  manipulation  as  possible.  It  should  be  rolled  in  one 
direction  only,  not  back  and  forth,  and  on  one  side  only. 

If  two  crusts  are  used,  the  lower  one  should  be  moistened 
around  the  edge  with  cold  water,  then  a  half-inch  strip  of 
pastry  should  be  placed  around  the  edge  of  the  under  crust. 
This  strip  should  also  be  moistened,  and  the  upper  crust 
placed  over  the  pie  and  pressed  slightly  around  the  edge. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

1  cup  baked  pumpkin  %  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  cups  milk  J4  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Yz.  cup  brown  sugar  %.  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  molasses 

To  prepare  the  pumpkin,  cut  in  halves.  Remove  the 
seeds,  and  place  in  the  oven  to  bake  until  tender.  Scrape 
out  the  cooked  pumpkin,  avoiding  the  skin  formed  by  baking. 

222 


PIES  223 

Mash,  and  add  the  sugar,  molasses,  seasonings  and  milk. 
Line  the  pie-tin  with  any  preferred  pastry.  Partially  bake 
the  crust,  and  turn  into  it  the  pumpkin  mixture.  Place  in  a 
moderate  oven,  and  bake  until  set.  Steamed  or  canned 
pumpkin  may  be  used,  but  should  be  placed  in  the  oven  and 
baked  until  quite  dry. 

CHERRY  PIE 

1  pint  canned  or  stewed  cherries     4  tablespoons  flour 

drained  J^  to  J4  cup  sugar 

Yi.  cup  cherry  juice  Pastry- 

Prepare  plain  or  nut  meal  pastry  and  line  the  pie-tin.  Sift 
the  flour  and  sugar  together.  The  amount  of  sugar  needed 
will  depend  upon  the  amount  used  in  cooked  fruit.  Sprinkle 
a  layer  of  the  flour  and  sugar  over  the  pie  crust.  Fill  with 
the  canned  fruit,  and  over  the  top  of  this  sprinkle  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour  and  sugar.  '  Put  on  the  top  crust,  pinch 
the  edges  together,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  until  nicely 
browned.     Other  fruits  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

VANILLA  CREAM  PIE 

2  cups  milk  y%  teaspoon  salt 

J4.  cup  flour  ij^  teaspoons  vanilla 

Yz  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

I  tablespoon  butter  Pastry 

Scald  the  milk.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients  together.  Add 
the  scalded  milk  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time.  Return  to  the 
double  boiler  and  cook  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes,  stirring 
often.  Add  the  vanilla  and  salt,  and  pour  into  a  baked  crust. 
Make  a  meringue  of  whipped  cream,  vegetable  gelatine  and 
the  powdered  sugar.     Place  on  top  of  the  filled  pie. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  PIE 

I  pint  of  milk  J4  cup  sugar 

Yi  cup  cocoanut  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

;J^,  cup  flour 


224  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Steep  the  cocoanut  in  one  and  one-half  cups  of  the  milk 
for  twenty  minutes.  Strain  and  thicken  with  the  flour, 
rubbed  smooth  with  the  remainder  of  the  milk.  Cook  at 
least  twenty  minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  Cool  slightly  and 
turn  into  a  baked  crust. 

Make  a  meringue  of  whipped  cream,  vegetable  gelatine 
and  powdered  sugar.  Spread  or  pile  unevenly  over  the 
filling.  Many  prefer  the  little  peaks  of  meringue  to  that 
which  is  evenly  spread  over  the  pie. 

NEW  ENGLAND  APPLE  CREAM  PIE 

I  cup  diced  apples'  i  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

I  cup  water  ^  teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind 

y^  cup  sugar  i  cup  cream 

J4  teaspoon  nutmeg  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

Pastry 

Cook  the  apples  with  the  lemon  rind  in  the  water  until 
quite  dry.  Add  the  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  the  cream. 
Turn  into  a  pastryi  crust  and  bake  until  set.  Make  a 
meringue  of  whipped  cream,  vegetable  gelatine  and  the  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  cover  the  pie  with  this. 

Tart  apples  are  best  used  for  this  pie. 

APPLE  TART 

I  quart  apples  quartered  Sugar 

Pastry 

Peel  and  put  the  apples  in  a  deep  pie  dish,  sprinkle  with 
sugar,  cover  with  a  pastry  crust,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

PASTRY  STRIPS 

Roll  out  pastry  into  oblong  shapes,  spread  with  a  paste 
made  as  follows: 

Yz  cup  seeded  dates  J4  cup  seeded  raisins 

J4  cup  chopped  walnuts 

Put  through  a  chopper,  and  if  quite  dry,  moisten  with  a 


PIES  225 

tablespoon  of  orange  juice.  Roll  the  strips  and  then  flatten 
with  a  rolling  pin.  Cut  into  one-half  inch  strips,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

PEACH  COBBLER 

2  quarts  drained  canned  peaches      3  tablespoons  butter 
ij^.  cups  sugar  Biscuit  dough 

Place  the  peaches,  sugar  and  butter  in  a  deep  pan.  Pre- 
pare a  rich  biscuit  dough,  using  two  tablespoons  of  butter  to 
each  cup  of  flour,  and  proceed  as  for  cream  biscuits.  Roll 
out  to  one-third  inch  thickness,  and  place  over  the  top  of  the 
peaches.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven.     Any  fruit  may  be  used. 

VEGETABLE  MARROW  TARTLETS 

Vegetable  marrows,  about  ij^         1  teaspoon  of  ginger 

pounds  Yi  pint  of  milk 

I  tablespoon  of  sugar  i  tablespoon  of  flour 

Peel  and  remove  the  seeds/  of  the  marrow,  and  cook  for 
twenty  minutes  in  the  milk,  with  the  sugar  and  the  ginger. 
When  tender,  pass  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  saucepan, 
and  add  the  flour,  mixed  to  a  smooth  paste,  with  a  little  of 
the  milk;  let  it  thicken,  stirring  all  the  time,  for  about  fi^^e 
minutes.  Make  some  pastry,  fill  with  the  mixture,  and  bake 
for  twenty  minutes. 

TREACLE  TART 

3  tablespoons    of    golden    syrup     2  ounces  of  bread  CTumbs 
Paste  J4.  ounce  of  butter 

Make  the  paste  according  to  the  recipe  for  "Paste,  Puff 
for  Tarts  and  Tartlets,"  then  line  a  shallow  eight-  or  nine- 
inch  tin  with  paste.  Put  in  the  bread  crumbs,  which  must 
be  very  fine.  Melt  the  butter  and  pour  it  over  the  bread 
crumbs,  and  warm  the  golden  syrup  and  pour  that  evenly 
over  all.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes. 


226  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

MINCE  PIE 

Mince-meat  Paste 

Prepare  the  paste  according  to  recipe  for  paste,  and  use 
the  mince-meat  prepared  according  to  either  recipe  for  rqince- 
meat. 

MINCE-MEAT  NO.  i 

I  pound  of  raisins  i  pound  of  sugar 

I  pound  of  currants  i  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

ij4-  pounds  of  apples  }4  grated  nutmeg 

J^  pound  each  of  candied  citron,     ^  saltspoon  of  powdered 
orange  and  lemon  cloves 

2  sherry  glasses  of  brandy 

Pick  and  wash  the  currants,  stone  the  raisins.  Peel  and 
slice  the  apples;  they  must  be  weighed  after  they  are  pre- 
pared. Shred  very  finely  the  citron,  orange  and  lemon. 
Put  them  all  into  a  large  bowl,  and  mix  well,  then  chop  them 
either  on  a  chopplng-jjoard  or  in  a  chopping  bowl.  When 
the  fruit  has  been  sufficiently  chopped,  return  it  to  the  large 
bowl,  and  mix  in  the  sugar  and  spices.  Put  the  mince-meat 
In  a  jar  and  pour  the  brandy  over  It.  When  It  Is  used  it 
should  be  well  mixed,  and  until  it  Is  required  must  be  kept 
carefully  covered.  A  dessertspoon  of  mince-meat  should  be 
put  Into  a  three-Inch  pie ;  and  as  there  is  no  suet  in  the  mince- 
meat, a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  hazel  nut,  must  be  placed 
in  the  middle  of  the  mince-meat  in  each  pie. 

MINCE-MEAT  NO.  2 

I  pound  of  raisins  la  ounces  of  mixed  peel 
I  pound  of  sultanas  8  ounces  of  brown  sugar 

I  pound  of  apples  (after  they  are       i  teaspoon  of  mixed  spice 

cored)  i  nutmeg 

8  ounces  of  pine  kernels  2  lemons 

8  ounces  of  chestnuts  Wineglass  each  of  sherry 

and  brandy 

Stone  and  chop  the  raisins;  pick  over  and  clean  the  sul- 


PIES  227, 

tanas;  peel  and  core  the  apples;  grind  the  nuts  very  finely 
twice  through  a  good  nut-mill ;  chop  the  peel  very  fine ;  boil 
the  lemons  for  two  hours  and  chop  into  small  pieces,  taking 
out  all  seeds;  add  all  together,  and  mix  well,  putting  the 
spice  and  wine  in  last.  Cover  tightly  and  keep  about  a  fort- 
night before  using.  Almonds  may  be  used  in  place  of  pine 
kernels. 

LEMON  PIE 

Mix  one  scant  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  with  water  to 
make  a  smooth  paste,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  one  cup  of  water, 
and  boil  five  minutes.  Add  one  teaspoon  of  butter,  the  juice 
of  a  large  lemon  and  the  grated  rind,  half  a  cup  of  sugar. 
It  should  have  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Bake  between 
an  upper  and  lower  crust. 

MOLASSES  PIE 

Mix  half  a  pint  of  New  Orleans  molasses  with  one  table- 
spoon of  flour.  Add  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon  and  half  a 
cup  of  finely  chopped  nuts,  and  bake  with  an  upper  and  under 
crust. 


VEGETABLE  GELATINE 

An  endless  host, 

Of  syllabubs  and  jellies  and  mince-pies, 

And  other  such  lady-like  luxuries.  ■ 

Shelley. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  THE  USE  OF 
VEGETABLE  GELATINE 

Soak  the  vegetable  gelatine  in  warm  water  for  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes.  Remove  from  this  water,  and  cook  in 
boiling  water  —  three  cups  to  the  box  —  keeping  covered 
while  cooking.  Let  it  boil  eight  to  ten  minutes,  or  until  it  is 
perfectly  clear.     Strain  through  a  wire  sieve,  or  strainer. 

A  box  of  the  gelatine  will  solidify  eleven  cups,  or  nearly 
three  quarts  of  liquid,  inclusive  of  the  water  in  which  the 
gelatine  is  cooked. 

When  a  firm  jelly  which  can  be  turned  out  of  a  mold  is 
desired,  use  two  cups  of  liquid  to  one  cup  of  cooked  vegetable 
gelatine  —  one-third  box  cooked  in  one  cup  of  boiling  water. 

A  more  delicate  jelly,  which  may  be  served  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  cooled,  is  made  by  using  two  and  one-half  to  two 
and  three-quarters  cups  of  liquid  to  one  cup  of  cooked  veg- 
etable gelatine. 

Vegetable  gelatine  hardens  in  a  few  minutes  at  ordinary 
room  temperature. 

Do  not  move  jelly  from  molds  until  ready  to  serve. 

CUCUMBER  JELLY 

i^  cups  cucumber  pulp  J4  cup  lemon  juice 

J^  package  vegetable  gelatine—     i  cup  water 
J4  ounce  J^  teaspoon  salt 

Few  drops  onion  juice 

228 


VEGETABLE  GELATINE  229 

To  prepare  the  cucumber  pulp,  peel  the  cucumbers,  and 
grate;  strain  through  a  colander,  and  press  through  as  much 
liquid  as  possible.  Add  the  lemon  juice,  salt  and  onion 
juice.  Prepare  the  vegetable  gelatine  by  soaking  in  warm 
water  twenty  minutes  or  more.  Drain,  and  cook  in  the  boil- 
ing water  five  to  ten  minutes.  Strain,  and  add  to  the  juices. 
Turn  into  molds  wet  with  cold  water.  When  firm,  unmold, 
and  serve  upon  a  lettuce  leaf  with  a  salad  dressing. 

BUTTERMILK  OR  YOGURT  JELLY 

J5  box  vegetable  gelatine  ^  cup  thick  cream 

ij^    cups  buttermilk  or  Yogurt      l  cup  boiling  water 

buttermilk  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons 

Prepare  the  vegetable  gelatine  according  to  general  direct 
tions  for  the  use  of  vegetable  gelatine,  and  cook  in  the  one- 
half  cup  of  boiling  water.  Add  to  the  buttermilk,  cream 
and  lemon,  then  turn  into  molds  to  cool.  When  set,  serve 
with  cream  dressing. 

TOMATO  JELLY 

I  can  tomatoes  I  teaspoon  salt 

or  J^  cup  lemon  juice 

ij4  cups  condensed  tomato  J^  box  vegetable  gelatine 

3  bay  leaves  /  1  cup  boiling  water 

I  medium-sized  onion  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Cook  the  tomatoes  with  the  seasoning  until  reduced  one- 
third;  then  rub  through  a  colander.  Prepare  the  vegetable 
gelatine  according  to  general  directions,  using  one  cup  of  boil- 
ing water  in  which  to  cooTc  it.  When  cooked  and  strained, 
add  to  the  tomatoes,  turn  into  molds,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 
It  may  be  cut  into  cubes  or  other  fancy  shapes  if  desired,  and 
served  as  a  garnish.  May  also  be  served  as  a  salad  with 
cream  dressing. 

If  condensed  tomato  is  used,  it  is  only  necessary  to  heat 
with  the  seasonings  long  enough  to  extract  the  flavor. 


230  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

WINE  JELLY 

}i  box  vegetable  gelatine  2  cups  boiling  water 

J4  cup  cold  water  i  cup  wine 

ij4.  cups  sugar  Juice  of  one  lemon 

Cover  the  gelatine  with  the  cold  water,  and  let  it  stand 
about  half  an  hour.  Add  the  boiling  water,  sugar  and  lemon 
juice.  Stir  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved,  and  add  the  wine. 
Strain  through  a  cloth  into  molds  wet  with  cold  water,  and 
set  in  cold  place  to  harden.  Serve  plain  or  with  whipped 
cream. 

LEMON  JELLY  NO.  i 

8  lemons  4  ounces  sugar 

1  ounce  vegetable  gelatine  2  oranges 

^2.  pint  water 
Take  the  oranges  and  lemons,  and  grate  the  rinds,  and  add 
it  to  the  strained  juice,  sugar  and  water ;  put  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan, and  boil  five  minutes ;  then  add  the  gelatine,  which  has 
been  soaked  in  a  little  cold  water.  When  dissolved,  pass  all 
through  a  jelly-bag  or  hair  sieve;  rinse  with  cold  water  a 
fancy  mold ;  put  in  the  mixture,  and  allow  it  to  set, 

LEMON  JELLY  NO.  2 

^  cup  lemon  juice  J^  box — ^  ounce  —  vegetable 

l^  cups  sugar  gelatine 

1/4.  cups  cold  water  1  cup  boiling  water 

Prepare  the  vegetable  gelatine  as  directed,  and  cook  in 
the  boiling  water.  To  the  lemon  juice,  add  the  sugar  and 
cold  water  and  the  cooked  vegetable  gelatine.  Pour  into 
molds  which  have  been  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set  in  a  cool 
place  to  mold.     This  may  be  served  with  whipped  cream. 

PINEAPPLE  JELLY 

2  cups  pineapple  juice  J^  box  —  J^  ounce  —  vegetable 
^2  cup  lemon  juice  gelatine 

iJ4  cups  sugar  i  cup  boiling  water 


VEGETABLE  GELATINE  231 

To  the  pineapple  juice,  add  the  lemon  juice,  the  sugar  and 
the  vegetable  gelatine  cooked  in  the  boiling  water  as  directed. 
Mold  and  serve  as  for  lemon  jelly. 

Other  flavors  may  be  made  by  using  grape,  cherry,  straw- 
berry, blackberry,  raspberry  or  other  fruit  juices  in  place  of 
the  pineapple. 

FRUIT  JELLY 

2  cups  fruit  juice  J^  box  —  %  ounce  —  vegetable 

1  cup  sugar  gelatine 

^  cup  lemon  juice  i  cup  boiling  water 

Soak  the  vegetable  gelatine  for  twenty  minutes  or  more  in 
warm  water.  Drain  and  cook  in  the  boiling  water.  Boil 
five  to  ten  minutes,  or  until  perfectly  clear,  and  strain  into 
the  fruit  juice  to  which  has  been  added  the  sugar.  Stir  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Turn  into  molds  wet  with  cold  water, 
and  let  it  stand  until  ready  to  serve ;  then  unmold. 

ORANGE  JELLY 

J^  box  vegetable  gelatine  i  cup  sugar 

i]/2.  cups  cold  water  2  cups  orange  juice 

1  cup  boiling  water  Juice  of  i  lemon 

Prepare  the  gelatine  as  directed  and  cook  in  the  boiling 
water.  Add  the  sugar,  fruit  juice  and  cold  water  to  the 
cooked  gelatine  and  strain  through  a  cloth  and  strainer  into 
cold  wet  molds,  and  put  in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  Serve 
plain  or  with  whipped  cream. 

ORANGE  MOLD 

Line  molds  with  thin  slices  of  orange,  and  pour  into  them 
orange  or  lemon  jelly.     Set  on  ice;  until  ready  to  serve. 

BANANA  MOLD 

Prepare  a  lemon,  pineapple  or  other  fruit  jelly.  Slice 
bananas,  and  line  the  molds  into  which  the  jelly  is  to  be 
poured  by  pressing  the  bananas  against  the  sides  and  bottom 


232  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

of  mold.  When  the  jelly  has  cooled  slightly,  turn  very 
slowly  into  molds.  When  cold,  turn  out  upon  a  dessert 
plate,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  Other  fruits  may  be 
substituted  for  the  banana,  viz.,  cherry,  strawberry,  rasp- 
berry, pineapple,  etc. 

MOONSHINE 

1  ounce  of  vegetable  gelatine  i  pint  of  boiling  water 
54  pound  of  sugar                             2  lemons 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water,  add  the  pint 
of  boiling  water  and  sugar,  also  the  grated  rinds  of  the 
lemons.  Boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  strain,  and  add  the 
juice  of  two  lemons;  when  nearly  cold,  whisk  it  till  snow- 
white  ;  put  it  into  a  mold  to  set  until  next  day. 

MINT  JELLY 

Yi  cup  lemon  juice  2  tablespoons  mint 

y^  cup  sugar  Y^  package  vegetable  gelatine  — 

2^4  cups  water  54  ounce 

Soak  the  mint  in  the  lemon  juice  one  hour,  then  strain,  and 
add  the  sugar  and  one  and  one-half  cups  cold  water.  Soak 
the  vegetable  gelatine  in  warm  water  twenty  minutes  or  more. 
Strain  and  add  one  cup  of  boiling  water;  boil  five  to  ten 
minutes.  Strain  and  add  the  other  Ingredients.  Turn  into 
molds  wet  with  cold  water,  and  stand  until  ready  to  serve. 

NUT  JELLY 

2  ounces  of  grated  almonds  2  tablespoons  of  cream 

2  ounces  of  grated  pine  kernels  ij^,  ounces  of  vegetable  gelatine 
1/4  pints  of  milk  I  ounce  of  sugar 

Soak  the  gelatine  all  night  in  a  little  of  the  milk;  put  the 
remainder  of  the  milk  into  a  double  saucepan,  and  bring  to 
boiling  point,  then  add  the  gelatine,  and  allow  it  to  boil  for 
five  minutes ;  pour  this  over  the  very  finely  ground  nuts,  add 
the  sugar  and  cream,  and  beat  all  together  for  ten  minutes. 


VEGETABLE  GELATINE  233 

Pour  into  a  mold,  rinsing  the  mold  with  cold  water  first,  and 
put  it  to  set  until  next  day. 

MILK  JELLY 

Yi  ounce  of  vegetable  gelatine  i  ounce  of  sugar 

1  pint  of  milk  Lemon  rind  to  flavor 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  very  little  water  all  night,  then  add 
the  boiling  milk  with  the  sugar  and  lemon  rind.  Let  it  sim- 
mer for  five  minutes,  then  strain  into  a  mold;  put  it  to  set 
until  next  day. 

BANANA  CREAM 

5  bananas  i  tablespoon  sugar 

54  ounce  vegetable  gelatine  2  oranges 

y^  pint  milk  yi  pint  cream 

Peel  the  bananas,  and  pass  them  through  a  sieve,  and  add 
the  sugar  and  whipped  cream ;  soak  the  gelatine  In  two  table- 
spoons of  cold  water,  when  dissolved,  add  it  to  the  milk,  and 
let  it  just  come  to  the  boil,  then  add  it  to  the  cream  and 
banana,  and  mix  lightly.  Turn  into  a  mold,  and  let  it  stand 
in  a  cold  place.  When  set,  turn  out,  and  put  the  oranges  — 
cut  into  thin  slices  —  round,  and  serve. 

BANANA  AND  ORANGE  CREAM 

4  bananas  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2  oranges  I  teacup  of  sugar 
I  tablespoon  powdered  vegetable     J^  pint  cream 

gelatine 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  half  a,  cup  of  cold  water  over  night, 
and  next  morning  dissolve  it  In  the  same  quantity  of  boiling 
water.  Peel  the  bananas,  and  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  add 
the  juice  and  pulp  of  the  oranges,  and  the  lemon  juice  and 
sugar.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  add  to  the  gelatine.  Set 
the  mixture  In  a  cool  place,  until  it  begins  to  stiffen.  Whip 
the  cream  till  stiff,  and  stir  all  together;  put  into  a  mold,  and 
let  it  stand  on  ice  a  few  hours. 


234  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

SALPICON  OF  FRUIT 

Yz  cup  strawberry  juice  Yz  cup  sugar 

y^  cup  pineapple  or  orange  juice      i  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Y(,  box  vegetable  gelatine  i  cup  water 

Drain  the  juice  from  a  pint  can  of  strawberries,  and  from 
a  quart  can  of  pineapple.  Measure,  To  these  add  one-half 
of  the  water,  the  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  If  the  fruit  juices 
are  very  sweet,  less  sugar  will  be  required.  Cook  the  veg- 
etable gelatine,  previously  soaked  and  drained,  in  the  remain- 
ing half  of  the  water,  Strain,  and  add  to  the  fruit  juices, 
then  turn  into  stemmed  sherbet  glasses  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served.  Decorate  with  triangular-shaped  pieces  of  pine- 
apple or  orange  arranged  while  soft  on  top  of  the  jelly  so  as 
to  point  toward  the  center  of  the  dish.  A  candied  cherry  in 
the  center  also  adds  to  the  attractiveness.  This  may  be 
served  as  a  first  course  or  as  a  light  dessert.  ^ 

APPLE  GATEAU 

I  pound  of  apples  J4  ounce  of  vegetable  gelatine 

3  ounces  of  loaf  sugar  Juice  of  Y^  lemon 

I  pint  of  water 

Peel  and  core  the  apples ;  cut  them  into  quarters,  and  stew 
them  with  the  water,  sugar  and  lemon  juice  until  tender,  but 
not  broken.  Take  them  out  carefully,  and  add  the  gelatine 
to  the  liquid,  stir  until  melted,  and  return  the  apple  for  a  few 
minutes.  Rinse  out  a  mold  with  cold  water;  pour  in,  and 
stand  until  firm. 

JELLIED  PEACHES 

6  peaches  J4  cup  lemon  juice 

I  cup  sugar  Yi  box-r-%  ounce  —  vegetable 

3  cups  boiling  water  gelatine 

3  dozen  almonds 

Pare,  and  cut  into  halves  six  peaches.     Heat  two  cups  of 


VEGETABLE  GELATINE  235 

water  and  the  sugar  to  boiling,  add  the  peaches,  and  cook 
until  tender. 

Remove,  and  place  each  half  peach  in  a  sherbet  glass  or 
mold.  ' 

Prepare  a  jelly,  using  the  peach  juice — of  which  there 
should  be  one  and  one-half  cups,  adding  water  to  make  the 
required  amount  if  deficient  —  the  lemon  juice,  and  one  cup 
of  water  in  which  has  been  boiled  the  vegetable  gelatine. 

The  gelatine  should  be  previously  soaked,  thoroughly 
washed  and  drained.  After  the  jelly  has  cooled,  and  begins 
to  slightly  thicken,  pour  slowly  into  the  glasses  or  molds. 
When  beginning  to  set,  add  to  each  glass  two  or  three 
blanched  almonds  split  in  halves. 

Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

JELLIED  APRICOTS 

I  quart  can  apricots  ij^'  cups  water 

^  cup  sugar  J^  box  —  J4  ounce  —  vegetable 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  gelatine 

Soak  the  vegetable  gelatine  in  warm  water  for  twenty 
minutes  or  more.  Drain,  and  cook  in  cup  of  boiling  water. 
Cook  the  sugar  and  the  remainder  of  the  water,  letting  it 
boil  two  minutes,  then  add  to  the  apricots.  Strain  the  cooked 
vegetable  gelatine,  and  add  to  the  fruit.  Turn  into  molds 
wet  with  cold  water,  and  let  stand  until  ready  to  serve.  Un- 
mold,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

CASSEROLE  OF  APPLES 

2  pounds  of  apples  i  teaspoon  of  essence  of  ginger 
2  ounces  of  vegetable  gelatine          6  ounces  of  sugar 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  cold  water,  add  the 
sugar  and  a  teaspoon  of  essence  of  ginger.  Put  it  into  a 
stewpan,  and  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes,  taking  care  it  does 
not  burn.     Next,  put  the  apples  —  pared,  cored  and  quar- 


236  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

tered,  into  the  liquid,  to  boil  until  soft  but  not  broken.  Take 
out  the  apples,  and  place  them  in  the  casserole  mold  rinsed 
out  with  cold  water.  Strain,  and  color  the  liquid  with  coch- 
ineal, and  pour  it  over  the  apples.     Serve  cold. 


HOT  DESSERTS 

"  Live  like  yourself,"  was  soon  my  lady's  word, 
And  lo!  two  puddings  smoked  upon  the  b6ard. 

Pope. 

MILITARY  PUDDING 

8  ounces  of  bread  or  rusk  crumbs     4  ounces  of  moist  sugar 
6  ounces  of  butter  Rind  and  juice  of  i  large  lemon 

Any  jam  desired 
Mix  the  butter,  crumbs,  sugar  and  lemon  together ;  grease 
a  medium-sized  baking  dish,  and  spread  a  layer  of  jam  on 
the  bottom,  put  the  mixture  on  top,  and  bake  for  about  half 
an  hour. 

ADMIRAL  PUDDING 

8  ounces  of  potatoes  7  ounces  of  flour  or  bread  crumbs 

12  ounces  of  carrots  3  ounces  mixed  candied  peel 

4  ounces  of  sugar  4  ounces  butter 

8  ounces  of  sultanas 

Pass  the  carrots  and  potatoes  when  cooked  through  a 
sieve ;  add  the  butter  chopped  fine,  and  flour  or  bread  crumbs. 
Mix  well,  then  add  the  sultalnas,  sugar  and  candied  peel,  put 
into  a  well  greased  mold,  and  steam  for  five  hours.  Serve 
with  lemon  or  sweet  sauce. 

STEAMED  SULTANA  PUDDING 

Yt.  pound  flour  Ya  pound  mashed  potatoes 

12  ounces  of  sultanas  Ya  pound  butter 

Y\  pound  brown  sugar  i  tablespoon  of  molasses 

y^  pound  mashed  carrots  2  ounces  finely  cut  candied  peel 

Mix  thoroughly  the  flour  or  bread  crumbs,  sultanas  — 
after  they  have  been  carefully  picked  over,  carrots,  potatoes 

837 


238  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

—  well  mashed,  and  sugar.  Warm  the  molasses  and  but- 
ter, and  add  these  with  the  candied  peel  last.  This  pudding 
is,  improved  by  being  mixed  overnight,  and  should  rise  very 
high.     Steam  in  a  buttered  basin  about  four  hours. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

4  ounces  of  potatoes  3  ounces  of  sugar 

2  ounces  of  butter  Juice  of  i  lemon 

Cook  and  mash  the  potatoes,  beat  in  the  butter  and  sugar, 
then  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Put  it  into  a  well  greased 
mold,  and  steam  for  half  an  hour.     Can  be  baked  if  liked. 


^) 


RAISIN  PUDDING 

8  ounces  of  flour  3  gills  of  milk 

2  ounces  of  butter  i  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

5  ounces  of  raisins  or  sultanas 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  then  mix  the  baking  powder 
with  the  flour;  add  the  raisins  or  sultanas  and  the  milk. 
Mix  all  together,  and  put  in  a  well-greased  pie  dish,  and 
bake  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

VALENTIA  PUDDING 

8  ounces  of  bread  or  rusk  crumbs      i  pint  of  milk 

3  ounces  of  Valentia  raisins  3  ounces  of  sugar 

I  ounce  of  butter  Vanilla  or  wine  to  flavor 

Put  the  milk  and  butter  on  to  boil.  When  it  boils,  add 
the  crumbs,  sugar,  stoned  and  coarsely  chopped  raisins. 
Boil  for  two  or  three  minutes,  and  put  aside  to  cool.  Add 
the  flavoring  to  the  cool  mixture.  Pour  into  a  greased  mold 
or  basin,  cover  the  top  with  a  greased  paper,  and  steam  for 
two  hours.  Allow  the  pudding  to  stand  until  it  shrinks 
away  from  the  side  of  the  basin,  which  will  be  in  a  minute 
or  two.  Turn  out  carefully  on  a  hot  dish.  Serve  with  a 
sweet  sauce. 


HOT  DESSERTS  239 

QUEEN'S  PUDDING 
8  Savoy  finger  biscuits  J^  pint  sweet  sauce 

3  tablespoons  raspberry  jam 

Roll  the  biscuits  to  make  rather  fine  crumbs,  and  spread 
them  over  the  bottom  of  a  small  pudding  dish.  Make  the 
white  sweet  sauce  according  to  recipe,  and  pour  it  over  the 
biscuit  crumbs  while  hot.  Now  spread  the  raspberry  jam 
over  the  sauce.  Put  the  pudding  in  a  hot  oven  for  five 
minutes,  and  serve  at  once. 

VEVEY  PUDDING 

2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  soda 

Yz.  teaspoon  ground  cloves  J4  cup  melted  butter 

Yz  teaspoon  cinnamon  i  cup  milk 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  I  cup  molasses 

Sift  first  five  ingredients  together  twice.  Stir  in  the'  milk, 
then  the  molasses  and  the  melted  butter.  Turn  into  a  but- 
tered pudding  dish.  If  in  one  large  dish,  steam  two  hours; 
if  in  individual  dishes,  steam  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes, 
tightly  covered.     Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  hard  sauce. 

LOG  CABIN  PUDDING 

I  loaf  bread  J^  cup  milk 

^  cup  molasses  i  tablespoon  butter 

J4  cup  honey  Y^  cup  raisins 

Crumb  the  bread  including  the  crusts.  Pour  over  it  the 
melted  butter,  distributing  as  evenly  as  possible,  and  stir  in 
also  the  cleaned  raisins.  Mix  the  honey  and  molasses. 
An  additional  quarter  cup  of  molasses  may  be  substituted 
for  the  strained  bee's  honey.  Add  the  milk.  Turn  the 
liquid  over  the  dry  ingredients ;  mix  with  a  folding  motion. 
Turn  into  a  pudding  dish,  and  steam  over  actively  boiling 
water  for  about  forty-five  minutes.  Too  long  cooking 
makes  it  heavy.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 


240  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

ST.  JAMES  PUDDING 

1  teaspoon  salt  J^,  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon 

yi  cup  butter  J4  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

yz  cup  sugar  J4  cup  chopped  dates 

Yz  cup  New  Orleans  molasses  1^4  cups  chopped  figs 

I  cup  milk  yi  teaspoon  soda 

3^  cups  flour  ij^,  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  molasses,  sugar,  spices,  salt,  milk. 
Sift  the  soda  and  baking  powder  with  the  flour.  Dredge 
the  fruit  with  a  little  of  the  flour.  Stir  the  flour  Into  the 
liquids,  and  lastly  add  the  fruit.  Steam  three  hours. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING 

J4  cup  butter  i  cup  milk 

Yi  cup  sugar  i]/^  cups  flour 

1^4  teaspoons  soda  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar  gradually.  Sift  the  soda 
and  baking  powder  with  the  flour.  Add  the  milk  and  the 
flour  alternately  to  the  former  ingredients.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  oblong  pan,  and  fill  about  three-fourths  full  of  the 
mixture.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Cut  into  squares,  and 
serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

STEAMED  FRUIT  PUDDING 

54  pound  seeded  raisins  I  teaspoon  cinnamon 

y^  pound  currants  ^,  teaspoon  salt 

J^,  pound,  butter  Ij4  cups  milk 

J4  pound  candied  citron  I  quart  stale  bread  crumbs  —  J^ 

I  cup  sugar  pound 

1  teaspoon  nutnleg  2  cups  flour 

5  cups  chopped  apples  Juice  and  rind  I/2.  lemon 

"  Wash  the  raisins  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them, 
drain,  and  dry  upon  clean  towels.  Cut  into  quarters. 
Clean  currants  by  placing  them  in  a  colander  and  shaking 


HOT  DESSERTS  241 

flour  over  them.  Rub  them  carefully  in  the  flour;  then 
place  in  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and  rinse  thoroughly  until  the 
water  is  clean.  Dry  upon  towels  in  a  cool  oven  or  in  the 
sun.  Currants  may  be  prepared  several  days  before  using, 
if  desired.  Slice  the  citron  very  fine.  If  the  citron  is  very 
hard,  it  may  be  softened  by  steaming.  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar;  add  the  seasonings,  also  the  lemon  juice  and 
rind.  Add  the  milk  and  one  cup  of  flour  alternately.  Mix 
the  fruit  with  the  remainder  of  the  flour,  and  turn  into  cake 
mixture.  Fold  in  the  grated  bread  crumbs,  and  lastly  the 
chopped  apples.  Turn  into  a  mold,  and  steam  for  five 
hours  or  boil  in  a  square  of  cheesecloth,  prepared  by  but- 
tering one  side,  and  then  sprinkling  with  flour.  Gather  the 
corners  of  the  cheesecloth,  and  tie  snugly  about  the  pudding. 
Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

NUT  AND  FRUIT  PUDDING 

8  ounces  of  pine  kernels  4  ounces  of  dates  or  figs 

8  ounces  of  almonds  4  ounces  of  sultanas 

Blanch  the  almonds,  and  grind  them  with  the  pine  ker- 
nels in  a  nut  mill,  and  pound  well  in  a  mortar.  Clean  and 
partly  cook  the  sultanas  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them 
a  few  hours  before  required.  Stone,  and  clean  the  dates, 
and  chop  them  up;  mix  all  together  by  putting  through  a 
mincing  machine.  Steam  in  a  basin  or  mold  about  seven 
hours.     Any  other  nuts  or  fruits  may  be  substituted. 

VERMICELLI  PUDDING  NO.  i 

4  ounces  of  vermicelli  i  dessertspoon  of  sugar 

I  pint  of  milk  J^  ounce  butter 

Yi.  thin  rind  of  a  lemon  A  little  grated  nutmeg 

Put  the  milk  to  simmer  with  the  lemon  rind  until  It  is 
nicely  flavored,  then  take  it  out,  and  add  the  sugar  and  but- 
ter. 

Throw  the  vermicelli  into  plenty  of  fast-boiling  water. 


242  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

and  let  it  boil  quickly  for  five  minutes;  then  drain  it  well. 
Now  stir  it  into  the  sweetened  milk,  and  let  it  boil,  stirring 
until  it  begins  to  boil. 

Turn  into  a  pie  dish,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  it,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  an  hour. 

VERMICELLI  PUDDING  NO.  2 

1  pint  of  milk  2  tablespoons  of  sugar 

2  ounces  of  vermicelli  Grated  rinds  of  2  lemons 

Put  the  milk  in  a  double  saucepan,  and  let  it  come  to 
boiling  point;  then  sprinkle  in  the  vermicelli,  breaking  it 
up  a  little  in  doing  so.  Allow  it  to  boil  gently  in  the  milk 
till  it  is  clear  and  soft  and  about  twice  its  original  size. 
Then  add  the  sugar  and  grated  lemon  rinds.  Pour  the 
mixture  in  the  greased  basin  or  mold,  cover  with  greased 
paper,  and  steam  gently  for  about  half  an  hour.  Turn  out 
carefully,  and  serve  hot,  garnished  with  orange  fritters. 

WINE  PUDDING 

8  ounces  stale  cake  crumbs  i  pint  milk 

I  wineglass  sherry  I  ounce  of  sugar 

Pass  the  cake  through  a  nut  mill,  or  break  into  small 
pieces,  put  it  into  a  basin,  and  pour  the  boiling  milk  over; 
let  it  stand  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  beat  well  with  a  fork, 
and  add  the  sugar  and  sherry.  Put  into  a  greased  pie  dish 
to  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  A  little  lemon  rind  or  juice 
may  be  added  if  liked. 

RICE  PUDDING  WITH  BURNT  SUGAR 

2j4  ounces  rice  2  tablespoons  sugar 

i/^i  pints  milk 

Wash  the  rice,  and  put  it  into  the  boiling  milk  in  a  double 

saucepan,  and  simmer  gently  until  well  done.     Put  the  sugar 

into  a  small  saucepan  with  four  tablespoons  of  water,  and 

boil  until  it  becomes  brown  and  thick;  then  spread  it  round 


HOT  DESSERTS  243 

a  mold  which  has  been  previously  warmed.  Pour  the  rice 
into  the  mold,  and  set  it  in  a  stewpan  with  some  boiling 
water.  Put  the  pan  into  the  oven  until  the  top  of  the  pud- 
ding is  brown ;  then  set  it  on  stove  to  simmer  half  an  hour 
longer.     Turn  out,  and  serve  very  hot. 

SAGO  PUDDING 

1  ounce  of  sago  i  dessertspoon  of  sugar 

1  pint  of  milk  Thin  rind  of  Y^  lemon 

J^  ounce  butter  A  little  grated  nutmeg 

Wash  the  sago,  and  put  it  in  a  pie  dish,  with  as  much 
boiling  water  as  will  just  cover  it;  let  it  stand  for  an  hour. 
Meantime  put  the  milk  in  a  saucepan  with  the  lemon  rind, 
and  let  it  simmer  until  it  is  nicely  flavored.  Pour  away  any 
water  that  the  sago  has  not  absorbed,  and  add  the  milk, 
which  must  have  been  strained  and  sweetened  and  the  but- 
ter melted  in  it.  Grate  over  it  a  little  nutmeg,  and  bake  it 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  an  hour. 

SATISFACTION  PUDDING 

I  teacup  of  butter  i  teacup     of    preserved     ginger 

I  teacup  of  milk  chips 

I  teacup  of  golden  syrup  i  teaspoon  carbonate  soda 

I  teacup  of  flour 
Warm  the  butter,  syrup  and  milk  together.     When  well 
mixed,  sprinkle  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.     Add 
the  ginger  chips  and  soda  last,  and  steam  for  about  five 
hours. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  FRITTERS 

4  slices  bread  and  butter  i  tablespoon  raspberry  jam 

y^.  ounce  of  sifted  sugar 
Spread  the  jam  on  the  bread  and  butter,  and  press  them 
well  together,  cut  into  rounds  with  a  cutter,  dip  in  a  good 
batter,   and  fry  a  golden  brown.     Serve  with  the  sugar 
sprinkled  over.     Any  other  jam  may  be  used. 


244  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

BREAD  PUDDING 

I  pound  of  pieces  of  stale  bread       2  ounces  of  butter 

I  pint  of  boiling  milk  ij4  ounces  moist  sugar 

Little  nutmeg  4  ounces  of  sultanas 

Pour  the  milk  on  the  bread,  let  it  stand  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  mash  it  up.  Mix  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  and 
add  to  the  bread  and  milk;  mix  well,  and  put  in  a  buttered 
dish,  and  bake  one  and  one-half  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

BREAD  PUDDING  A  LA  FRAN9AISE 

I  pound  of  stale  pieces  of  bread        i  ounce  of  candied  peel 

1  pint  of  boiling  milk  Essence  of  vanilla  or  cinnamon 

2  ounces  of  butter  to  taste 

Put  the  pieces  of  bread  into  a  basin,  and  pour  over  the 
boiling  milk,  and  cover  with  a  plate;  let  them  stand  for 
twenty  minutes,  and  then  add  the  butter,  finely  shredded 
candied  peel  and  the  flavoring.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  pour 
into  a  well-greased  mold,  and  steam  for  three  hours.  Turn 
out  carefully,  and  serve  with  jam  or  sauce. 

CANDIED  FRUIT  PUDDING 

J4  pound  candied  fruit  2  ounces  of  flour 

J4  pound  of  bread  crumbs  J/2  pint  milk 

2  ounces  butter 

Any  kind  of  candied  fruit  that  is  getting  a  little  damp  to 
use  as  dessert  will  do  for  this  pudding;  if  it  is  large,  it 
should  be  shredded,  but  if  cherries  are  used,  they  may  be 
cut  in  half.  Mix  the  flour  with  the  bread  crumbs  and  the 
candied  fruit.  Make  the  milk  hot,  and  melt  the  butter  in 
it,  and  pour  it  over  the  bread  crumbs,  etc.  Have  ready  a 
buttered  mold,  and  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  steam  for  three 
hours.  One  of  the  wine  sauces  or  plain  sweet  sauce  may  be 
served  with  this  pudding.  Or  it  may  be  served  with  butter, 
and  cream  and  sugar. 


HOT  DESSERTS  245 

CARROT  PUDDING  NO.  i 

12  ounces  of  carrots  3  ounces  currants 

8  ounces  bread  criunbs  grated        A  little  grated  nutmeg 
2j^  ounces  butter  3  ounces  sultanas 

ij4  ounces  sugar 
Cook  the  carrots  thoroughly;  then  grate  or  pass  through 
a  sieve.  Chop  up  the  butter,  pass  the  bread  crumbs  through 
a  sieve;  pick  over  currants  and  sultanas,  mix  all  together 
with  the  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Add  a  little  milk  if  not  moist 
enough.  Put  into  a  well  greased  mold,  and  steam  four 
hours. 

CARROT  PUDDING  NO.  2 

4  ounces  of  carrots  2  ounces  of  sugar 

4  ounces  of  cake  crumbs  Yz  ounce  candied  peel  or  crystal- 

I  breakfast  cup  of  milk  lized  cherries 

^  wineglass  sherry 
Boil  the  carrots  until  tender,  drain,  and  pass  through  a 
sieve ;  add  the  cake  crumbs  —  any  stale  pieces  of  plain  cake 
may  be  used.  Boil  the  milk  with  the  sugar,  pour  over  the 
cake  crumbs  and  carrot;  mix  well;  add  the  sherry.  Bake 
in  a  well-buttered  pie  dish  for  half  an  hour.  Garnish  the 
top  with  candied  peel  or  cherries  before  putting  into  oven. 

ROLY-POLY  PUDDING 

Short  paste  Jam 

Take  any  quantity  of  paste,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
pudding  required,  and  roU  it  out  half  an  inch  thick.  Spread 
the  jam  over  the  paste,  leaving  a  margin  of  an  inch  all 
around.  Now  dampen  the  margin  slightly,  and  fold  the 
paste  very  lightly,  but  press  the  edges  together.  Wrap  the 
pudding  loosely  in  a  buttered  paper,  and  steam  for  four 
hours.  Sweet  white  sauce  can  be  served  with  it  if  liked. 
The  pudding  can  be  made  with  golden  syrup  instead  of  jam. 
Small  berries  are  also  good. 


246  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

OMNIBUS  PUDDING 

6  ounces  of  flour  or  rusk  crumbs     6  ounces  of  sultanas 
4  ounces  of  butter  4  ounces  of  golden  syrup 

Yi.  pint  milk 
Mix  the  butter  and  flour  together,  and  add  the  sultanas. 
Warm  the  syrup  and  milk  together,  and  add  to  the  rest. 
Steam  in  a  well  buttered  basin  for  four  hours.     Serve  with 
any  white  sauce. 

SNOWDON  PUDDING 

8  ounces  of  white  bread  crumbs      3  ounces  of  sugar 
6  ounces  of  butter  3  tablespoons  of  jam  —  peach  or 

apricot 
Mix  the  bread  crumbs  and  butter  together  with  the  sugar 
and  jam.     Steam  in  a  well-greased  basin  for  about  three 
hours.     Serve  with  a  sauce  of  the  same  jam  as  used  in  the 
pudding,  and  whipped  cream. 

SPOTTED  DICK 

6  ounces  of  flour  3  ounces  of  butter 

4  ounces  of  sultanas  or  raisins         i  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Water 

Chop  the  butter  as  you  would  suet,  and  mix  into  It  the 
flour  with  the  sultanas  or  raisins,  and  the  baking  powder. 
Add  as  much  water  as  will  make  a  paste  thick  enough  to 
roll  out,  as  for  roly-poly  pudding  or  jam  roll.  When 
rolled  out,  fold  over,  and  put  into  a  pudding  cloth,  and  boil 
foir  about  one  hour. 

ALMOND  PUDDING 

4  ounces  of  ground  almonds  2  ounces  of  melted  butter 

8  ounces  of  white  bread  crumbs       Grated  rind  of  i  lemon 
4  ounces  of  sugar  A  little  grated  nutmeg 

Mix  the  bread  crumbs,  almonds,  sugar,  lemon  and  nut- 
meg together,  and  add  the  melted  butter;  put  into  a  well 


HOT  DESSERTS  247 

greased  basin ;  cover  with  greased  paper,  and  steam  for  two 
hours.     Sdrve  with  any  sweet  sauce.  ) 

ALMOND  AND  RAISIN  PUDDING 

J4  pound  bread  crumbs  2  ounces  of  sugar 

2  dozen  almonds  2  ounces  of  flour 

J4  pound  raisins  J^  pint  milk 

2  ounces  of  butter 
Blanch  the  almonds,  and  put  them  through  a  nut  mill; 
then  pound  them  well  in  a  mortar.  Add  one  drop  of  water 
occasionally  to  prevent  them  oiling.  Stone  the  raisins,  and 
chop  them,  but  not  very  fine,  and  add  them  with  the  almonds, 
sugar  and  flour  to  the  bread  crumbs.  Make  the  milk  hot, 
and  melt  the  butter  in  it,  and  stir  it  into  the  other  ingredients. 
Butter  a  mold,  and  put  in  the  mixture,  and  steam  for  four 
hours. 

ALMOND  CUP  PUDDING 

4  ounces  of  sweet  almonds  i  tablespoon  cream 

2  ounces  bitter  almonds  1%  ounces  flour 

2  ounces  of  butter  i  ounce  of  sugar 

Blanch  the  almonds,  and  pass  them  through  a  nut  mill; 
then  pound  them  well  in  a  mortar  for  ten  minutes ;  add  the 
butter  —  beaten  to  a  cream  —  and  the  cream  and  sugar. 
Then  add  the  flour  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time.  Grease 
some  small  tins,  and  half  fill  them,  and  put  into  a  quick  oven 
for  about  half  an  hour.     Serve  with  brandy  sauce  if  desired. 

ALMOND  AND  BREAD  PUDDING 

3  ounces  of  sweet  almonds  The  grated  rind  and  juice  of  i 
6  bitter  almonds  lemon 

4  ounces  of  bread  crumbs  2  tablespoons  sugar 
2  ounces  butter  2  tablespoons  flour 

y2.  pint  milk 

Blanch  the  almonds,  and  put  them  through  a  nut  mill. 
Pound  them  well,  adding  a  little  water  occasionally  to  pre- 


248  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

vent  oiling.  Add  to  the  milk,  and  let  them  simmer  on  the 
stove  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  then  pour  over  the  bread 
crumbs,  and  add  the  sugar,  flour  and  lemon. 

INDIAN  PUDDING 

5  cups  of  milk  J4  cup  of  molasses 

J^  cup  of  meal  2  tablespoons  butter  chopped 

I  teaspoon  of  salt  i  teaspoon  of  ginger 

Cook  the  milk  and  meal  in  a  double  boiler  20  minutes; 
add  the  other  ingredients.  Put  the  mixture  in  a  pudding 
dish  and  bake  two  hours.  Serve  with  hot  maple  molasses 
and  butter,  or  cream. 

FIG  AND  INDIAN  PUDDING 

I  cup  corn  meal  i  cup  finely  chopped  figs 

I  cup  molasses  i  teaspoon  salt 

6  cups  of  milk  and  cream  mixed      1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Cook  the  corn  meal  with  4  cups  of  the  milk,  add  the  figs 
and  salt,  molasses  and  butter.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pud- 
ding dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  four  hours.  When 
partly  cooked  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk  without  stir- 
ring the  pudding. 

CHRISTMAS  PLUM  PUDDING  NO.  i 

J4  pound  raisins  %  pound  mixed  peel 

J4  pound  sultanas  i  pound  bread  crumbs 

J4.  pound  almonds  4  apples 

J^  pound  pine  kernels  i  lemon,  rind  and  juice 

J4  pound  demerara  sugar  J4  nutmeg 

J^  pound  butter  2  wineglasses  brandy 

Stone  the  raisins,  pick  over,  and  wash  the  sultanas,  shred 
the  peel,  blanch  the  almonds,  clean  the  pine  kernels,  and 
put  them  both  through  a  nutmill,  and  then  pound  them, 
and  grate  the  nutmeg  and  lemon  rind.  Mix  all  these  with 
the  bread  crumbs,  sugar,  and  apples  which  must  be  peeled, 
cored  and  chopped.     Chop  the  butter,  and  add  to  the  mix- 


HOT  DESSERTS  249 

ture  with  the  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice.  Let  the  ingredients 
stand  for  a  night.  Add  the  brandy,  and  mix  together  thor- 
oughly. Put  into  well  buttered  molds,  and  allow  pudding 
to  steam  for  seven  hours,  and.  when  warming  again  for 
use,  for  about  half  the  time. 

CHRISTMAS  PLUM  PUDDING  NO.  2 

I  pound  of  raisins  J^  pound  crystallized  cherries 

I  pound  of  sultanas  6  ounces  of  peel 

Yi  pound  sugar  I  tablespoon  mixed  spice 

94  pound  butter  j^  oi  a  nutmeg 

^2  pound  bread  crumbs  J^, lemon  and  rind 

J^  pound  flour  ;^  carrot  grated 

J^  pound  almonds  J4  pound  walnuts 

J4  pound  of  Brazils 

J^  tumbler  brandy 

Proceed  in  the  same  way  as  in  No.  i,  by  mixing  all  the 
dry  ingredients  first  together;  the  nuts  should  all  be  care- 
fully prepared  by  removing  every  particle  of  skin,  and  put 
them  through  the  nut  mill  twice  if  necessary;  then  pound 
them  well  In  a  mortar.  Put  into  buttered  molds,  and  steam 
about  three  hours.  Grate  the  carrot,  cut  the  crystallized 
cherries  up  fine,  add  these  to  the  mixture,  stir  well,  and 
allow  to  stand  over  night.  Add  the  brandy  next  morning, 
and  follow  the  same  directions  with  regard  to  boiling. 

CHRISTMAS  PLUM  PUDDING  NO.  3 

I  pound  each  of  raisins  and  cur-     i  dozen  each  of  sweet  and  bitter 

rants  almonds 

I  pound  of  bread  crumbs  i  pound  of  butter 

j4  pound  each  of  candied  lemon,      i  nutmeg 

citron  and  orange  Grated  rind  of  a  lemon 

4  ounces  of  flour  j/2  pint  milk 

^2  pound  sugar  2  sherry-glasses  brandy 

Stone  the  raisins,  pick  the  currants,  shred  the  candied 
lemon,  citron,  and  orange;  blanch,  chop  and  pound  the  al- 


250  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

monds,  and  grate  the  nutmeg.  Mix  all  well  together  with 
the  fresh  lemon  rind,  bread  crumbs,  sugar  and  flour.  Warm 
the  butter  slightly,  and  beat  it  up,  and  then  add  it  to  the 
other  ingredients,  mixing  thoroughly.  Cover  the  mixture 
carefully,  and  set  it  aside  for  at  least  six  hours;  it  is  better 
left  over  night.  Then  add  the  milk,  and  brandy,  and  mix 
again  thoroughly.  Put  the  mixture  into  buttered  molds, 
and  steam  for  seven  hours. 


COLD  DESSERTS 

Can  we  ever  have  too  much  of  a  good  thing? 

Cervantes. 

CORNSTARCH  PUDDING 

1  pint  milk  3  tablespoons  sugar 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch  J/^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Dissolve  the  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  water.  Stir  the 
sugar  into  the  milk,  and  place  it  on  the  fire.  When  it 
begins  to  boil,  add  the  dissolved  cornstarch.  Stir  constantly 
for  a  few  minutes.  After  it  becomes  of  the  right  consis- 
tency it  can  be  left  to  cook  for  half  an  hour,  to  do  away 
entirely  with  the  raw  taste  resulting  from  too  little  cooking. 
When  thoroughly  cooked,  remove  from  fire,  add  the  vanilla, 
and  turn  into  a  mold.  Serve  with  fruit  sauce  or  thick 
cream. 

CARAMEL  CORNSTARCH  PUDDING 

I  tablespoon  sugar  2  tablespoons  water 

J4  teaspoon  salt  i  pint  milk 

4  tablespoons  cornstarch  J^  cup  caramel 

To  prepare  the  caramel,  melt  one-half  cup  granulated 
Sugar.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  it  becomes  a  rather  dark 
brown  but  clear  color,  taking  care  not  to  burn.  Add  one- 
half  cup  boiling  water  slowly,  and  cook  until  the  hardened 
sugar  is  dissolved.  Caramel  may  be  bottled  up,  and  kept 
indefinitely,  to  be  used  for  coloring  and  flavoring. 

Heat  the  milk  with  the  caramel  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix 
sugar,  salt  and  cornstarch,  and  braid  with  cold  water.  Turn 
the  hot  milk  into  the  cornstarch,  stirring  meanwhile,  and 

351 


252  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

return  to  the  double  boiler,  and  cook  forty-five  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally.  Turn  into  molds  or  into  a  large  dish. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE 
2  cups  milk  54  cup  cocoa 

J4  cup  sugar  54  cup  cornstarch 

yz  teaspoon  vanilla 

Blend  the  cornstarch  with  an  equal  amount  of  milk.  Heat 
the  remainder  of  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler ;  add  the  sugar, 
cocoa  and  vanilla.  Add  the  moistened  cornstarch,  stirring 
until  the  milk  has  thickened.  Cook  one  to  two  hours  in 
the  double  boiler.  Serve  with  a  sauce.  Malted  milk  may 
be  substituted  for  the  cocoa. 

COCOANUT  BLANC  MANGE 

4-  tablespoons  cornstarch  4  tablespoons  sugar 

2  cups  milk  Yi.  cup  cocoanut 

Moisten  the  cornstarch  with  four  tablespoons  of  milk. 
Heat  the  remainder  of  the  milk  with  the  cocoanut.  When 
the  flavor  is  entirely  extracted  from  the  cocoanut,  strain  it 
out.  Add  the  sugar  and  moistened  cornstarch.  Stir  until 
thickened;  then  cook  in  a  double  boiler  one  to  two  hours. 
Turn  into  individual  molds  wet  with  cold  water  or  into  a 
shallow,  oblong  pan,  and  cut  into  squares. 

DATE  SURPRISE 

I  tablespoon  butter  4  tablespoons  cornstarch 

3  tablespoons  sugar  I  cup  chopped  dates 

I  quart  mil^  i  teaspoon  almond  extract 

Yi  teaspoon  vanilla 
Heat  the  milk  and  sugar  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  the 
cornstarch  in  cold  milk,  and  stir  in  the  hot  milk.  Cook 
twenty  minutes.  Add  chopped  dates.  Remove  from  the 
heat,  and  add  almond  and  vanilla  extract.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  with  a  seeded  date  on  top. 


COLD  DESSERTS  253 

INDIAN  TRIFLE 

3  tablespoons  rice  flour  or  com-     4  tablespoons  sugar 
starch  J^  cup  shaved  citron 

3  tablespoons  white  commeal  Yn  teaspoon  cinnamon 

3  cups  milk 

Mix  the  rice  flour  and  cornmeal.  Scald  milk,  and  pour 
over  the  flour  and  meal.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  quite  thick. 
Add  sugar,  citron  and  cinnamon,  and  cook  in  double  boiler 
two  or  three  hours.  Turn  into  molds  or  a  glass  dish,  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream. 

RICE  PUDDING 

5  cups  milk  y^  teaspoon  salt 

y^.  cup  rice  ^  cup  sugar 

Grated  rind  of  J^  lemon 

Wash  the  rice,  mix  ingredients,  and  pour  into  a  buttered 
dish.  Bake  three  hours  in  a  very  slow  oven,  stirring  three 
times  during  the  first  hour  to  prevent  rice  from  settling. 
Should  not  brown  the  first  hour.  Stir  at  the  end  of  the 
second  hour.  The  milk  should  be  like  thin  cream.  If  this 
pudding  is  to  be  served  quickly  use  four  cups  of  milk  instead 
of  five,  but  it  is  better  to  use  five  and  cook  longer.  Serve 
with  preserves. 

MILK  RICE 

4  ounces  of  rice  Nutmeg  or  vanilla 
I  quart  of  milk  Sugar  " 

Wash  the  rice,  and  put  it  in  a  double  pan.  Boil  the 
milk,  and  pour  it  over  the  rice.  Let  it  cook  for  two  hours, 
and  then  sweeten  with  sugar  and  flavor  to  taste.  Milk  rice 
is  very  liable  to  burn,  so  that  it  is  safer  to  use  a  double  pan. 
It  takes  longer  to  cook  in  this  way,  but  it  is  much  more  satis- 
factory. Serve  cold  with  jam.  An  attractive  dish  is  made 
by  molding  the  rice  in  small  cups. 


254  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

DATE  AND  RICE  PUDDING 

Serve  plain  boiled  rice  as  a  pudding  with  cooked  dates 
and  whipped  creani.  Chop  the  dates  in  small  pieces,  add  a 
little  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Serve  with  a  border  of 
boiled  rice  and  cover  with  whipped  cream. 

RICE  PUDDING  A  LA  FRAN^AISE 

4  ounces  Carolina  rice  2  ounces  sugar 

I  pint  of  milk  4  drops  essence  vanilla  or 

I  ounce  of  butter  4  ounces  of  ground  almonds 

Wash  the  rice  thoroughly,  and  put  into  a  double  saucepan 
with  the  milk,  butter  and  sugar,  and  allow  it  to  cook  slowly 
for  two  hours,  stirring  occasionally.  Turn  out,  and  when 
cold,  add  the  vanilla  or  almonds.  Grease  a  pudding  dish, 
and  steam  the  mixture  for  one  hour  and  a  half.  Serve  with 
jam  or  sweet  sauce. 

RICE  WHOLE  IN  MOLDS 

4  ounces  rice  i  dessertspoon  sugar 

I  pint  milk  I  bay  leaf 

Wash  the  rice;  put  it  in  a  double  boiler  after  picking  it 
over.  Boil  the  milk,  and  pour  it  over  the  rice ;  add  the  bay 
leaf  and  sugar;  if  the  flavor  of  lemon  is  preferred,  add  half 
the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon.  Cook  the  rice  for  two  hours  and 
a  half,  and  see  that  the  water  in  the  outer  pan  is  kept  boil- 
ing all  the  time,  and  the  pan  is  not  allowed  to  boil  dry. 
Pour  into  a  damp  mold,  or  small  molds,  and  put  in  a  cool 
place  for  five  or  six  hours.  Turn  out  carefully.  Serve 
stewed  fruit  with  the  molds.  If  small  molds  are  used,  put 
a  candied  cherry  or  strawberry  on  top  of  each,  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

RICE  AND  ALMOND  MOLDS 
4  ounces  rice  2  tablespoons  sugar 

I  quart  milk  i  ounce  sweet  almonds 

2  bitter  almonds 


COLD  DESSERTS  255 

Blanch  the  almonds,  and  put  them  through  the  nut  mill ; 
then  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  adding  one  drop  of  water  from 
time  to  time,  to  prevent  them  oiling.  Wash  the  rice  care- 
fully, and  put  it  in  a  double  pan  with  the  sugar  and  almonds. 
Let  it  cook  until  the  rice  is  tender,  being  careful  to  keep 
plenty  o^  boiling  water  in  the  outer  pan;  it  will  take  about 
two  hours  and  a  half  to  cook.  Stir  occasionally  while  the 
rice  is  cooking.  Beat  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  a  minute, 
and  press  it  into  a  damp  mold.  Let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place 
for  at  least  five  hours.  Turn  it  out  carefully,  and  pour 
cream  over  it. 

RICE  BALLS 
3  ounces  of  rice  Rind  of  i  lemon 

y^  pint  of  milk  A  pinch  of  sugar 

Pick  over  the  rice,  but  do  not  wash  it;  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  sufficient  water  to  cover  it,  with  the  sugar,  and 
let  it  swell  till  the  water  is  absorbed.  Add  the  milk  and 
lemon  rind,  and  stew  gently  for  an  hour;  put  into  small 
molds,  and  serve  with  stewed  fruit. 

RICE  BLANC  MANGE 

2^  ounces  ground  rice  J^  pint  milk 

I  bay  leaf  i  tablespoon  sugar 

Take  enough  milk  from  the  pint  to  mix  the  rice  smoothly. 
Put  the  remainder  in  an  enameled  saucepan  with  the  bay  leaf, 
and  let  it  remain  until  the  milk  is  nicely  flavored.  If  lemon 
flavor  is  preferred,  use  the  thin  rind  of  half  a  lemon.  Re- 
move the  flavoring,  and  add  the  sugar,  and  pour  the  mixed 
rice  in,  stirring  as  the  milk  is  poured  in. 

Return  the  mixture  to  a  saucepan,  and  boil  until  the  rice 
leaves  the  spoon  easily,  stirring  the  whole  time.  Pour  into 
a  damp  mold,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place,  for  three  or 
four  hours  before  turning  out.  Serve  stewed  fruit  with  the 
blanc'  mange. 


256  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

GRATED  COCOANUT  PUDDING 

I  large  cocoanut  Clear  strawberry  or  currant  jelly 

Take  a  large  cocoanut,  break  in  pieces,  pare  off  the  outside 
bark.  Throw  the  pieces  into  cold  water,  then  dry  them 
with  a  cloth  and  grate  on  a  coarse  grater,  heap  it  on  a  flat 
dish,  and  serve  with  any  good  preserve ;  or  arrange  it  around 
a  jelly  flavored  with  raspberry  or  strawberry. 

NUT  PUR^E 

3  ounces  walnuts  4  ounces  biscuits 

3  ounces  almonds  j^  pint  of  cream 

3  ounces  chestnuts  or  Brazils         ^  pint  milk 

A  few  drops  of  vanilla 

Blanch  the  almonds,  and  remove  every  particle  of  skin 
from  the  walnuts  and  chestnuts,  or  Brazils,  put  them  all 
through  a  nut  mill,  and  mix  well  together.  Boil  the  milk 
separately,  and  pour  over  the  nuts ;  allow  it  to  cool,  then  add 
the  cream  and  vanilla,  and  beat  all  thoroughly  together. 
Put  the  biscuits,  sweet  or  plain  ones,  into  a  glass  dish,  and 
pour  the  mixture  over,  and  allow  it  to  stand  two  hours.  A 
little  whipped  cream  may  be  put  on  the  top,  if  liked,  or  a 
few  ratafia  biscuits  and  crystallized  cherries. 

MIXED  NUT  PUR^E 

5  ounces  of  almonds  i  teaspoon  vanilla 

4  ounces  of  pine  kernels  4  ounces  biscuits  —  any  kind 
ij^  ounces  of  walnuts  ij4  pints  milk  , 

Prepare  the  nuts,  and  pass  them  through  the  nut  mill 
twice,  also  the  biscuits.  Mix  all  well  together,  pour  the 
boiling  milk  over,  and  add  the  vanilla.  When  cold,  serve 
in  a  glass  dish  with  whipped  cream. 

PISTACHIO  CREAMS 

6  ounces  pistachio  nuts  2  tablespoons  rosewater 
I  pint  cream  i  ounce  sugar 


COLD  DESSERTS  257 

Blanch  the  nuts,  and  pound  them  well  with  the  rosewater, 
until  the  consistency  of  paste.  Add  the  cream,  and  put  into 
a  small  saucepan  with  the  sugar,  and  let  it  just  boil.  Allow 
it  to  cool,  and  put  it  into  jelly  or  custard  glasses.  Serve 
cold. 

FUN  PUDDING 

y^  pound  ratafias  3  ounces  flour 

2  ounces  sugar  ij4  pints  milk 

3  ounces  grated  cocoanut 

Add  the  sugar  to  a  little  of  the  milk;  sprinkle  in  the 
flour,  very  slowly  stirring  all  the  time,  add  the  rest  of  the 
milk,  and  put  into  a  clean  saucepan  on  the  fire,  and  stir 
well  until  it  thickens,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  burn.  Put 
the  ratafias  Into  a  glass  dish,  and  pour  the  mixture  over; 
when  nearly  cold  sprinkle  with  the  cocoanut  on  top,  and- 
serve  cold. 

GERMAN  PUDDING 

3  ounces  rice  2  ounces  stoned  raisins 

2  ounces  butter  1  pint  milk 

3  ounces  ground  almonds  Speck  of  powdered  cinnamon 

Cook  the  rice  and  milk  in  a  double  saucepan  for  half  an 
hour,  then  add  the  ground  almonds,  butter,  raisins  and  cin- 
namon. Mix  well,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  longer. 
Grease  a  mold,  pour  the  mixture  in,  cover  with  a  greased 
paper,  tie  a  cloth  over,  and  steam  for  two  hours. 

GINGER  PUDDING  NO.  i 

1  breakfast  cup  of  flour  i  tablespoon  brown  sugar 

J^  breakfast  cup  of  syrup  i  teaspoon  ground  ginger 

J^  breakfast  cup  milk  J4  teaspoon  carbonate  soda 

Warm  the  milk,  butter,  sugar  and  syrup  all  together,  then 
sprinkle  in  the  flour  into  which  the  ginger  has  been  first 
mixed;  dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  add  it  last. 
Steam  In  a  well  greased  basin  for  about  four  hours. 


258  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

GINGER  PUDDING  NO.  2 

Yi  pound  bread  crumbs  %  pound  moist  sugar 

J4  pound  butter  2  large  tablespoons  of  ginger 

Warm  the  butter,  and  mix  with  the  sugar ;  mix  the  ginger 
with  the  bread  crumbs;  then  mix  all  together  thoroughly, 
put  into  a  buttered  basin,  and  steam  for  three  or  four 
hours. 

BROWN  GINGER  PUDDING 

2  ounces  bread  raspings  i  tablespoon  Golden  Syrup 

I  teaspoon  ground  ginger  2  ounces  candied  lemon  peel 

3  ounces  butter  J4:  pint  milk 

I  ounce  sugar 

Make  the  milk  hot,  and  melt  the  butter  and  Golden  Syrup 
in  it,  pouring  over  the  bread  raspings.  Cover,  and  let  them 
remain  for  half  an  hour.  Now  mix  in  tl\oroughly  the  gin- 
ger, sugar  and  candied  lemon.  Put  the  mixture  in  a  well 
buttered  mold,  and  steam  for  three  hours.  Serve  sweet 
white  sauce  with  the  pudding.  i 

GREEN  GINGER  PUDDING 

4  ounces  bread  crumbs  2  ounces  flour 
4  ounces  green  ginger  %  pint  of  milk 

2  ounces  butter 

In  weighing  the  ginger  for  this  pudding,  it  is  best  to  weigh 
it  in  the  basin  in  which  it  will  be  mixed,  then  the  syrup  will 
not  be  wasted.  Weigh  the  basin  first,  and  then  put  in  the 
ginger  with  a  proper  proportion  of  the  syrup.  Cut  up  the 
ginger  in  bits  about  as  large  as  a  pea.  Add  the  bread 
crumbs  to  the  ginger.  Heat  the  milk,  melting  the  butter  in 
it,  and  pour  it  over  the  bread  crumbs  and  ginger.  Now  mix 
in  the  flour  very  carefully,  and  stir  well  together.  Pour  the 
mixture  in  a  well  buttered  mold,  and  steam  for  three  hours. 
Serve  with  any  sweet  sauce.  ' 


COLD  DESSERTS  259 

GINGER  WITH  CREAM 

Preserved  ginger  Whipped  cream 

Cut  up  some  ginger  about  the  size  of  peas,  and  put  a 
teaspoon  and  a  very  little  syrup  in  each  paper  ramequin 
case.     FiU  the  cases  with  whipped  cream,  and  serve. 

SEMOLINA  MOLD 

2  ounces  semolina  i  pint  milk 

I  ounce  sugar  J4  lemon 

Yz  teaspoon  vanilla 
Rinse  a  saucepan  with  cold  water,  then  put  in  the  milk 
and  sugar.  When  it  boils,  add  the  semolina  slowly,  stir- 
ring all  the  time.  Cook  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
then  add  the  flavoring.  Then  rinse  out  a  mold  with  cold 
water,  pour  the  mixture  in,  and  let  it  stand  until  cold. 

MILK  SAGO 

4  ounces  of  sago  Nutmeg 

I  quart  milk  Sugar 

Prepare  this  exactly  as  for  milk  rice.  Any  other  flavor- 
ing can  be  substituted  for  the  nutmeg.  A  strip  of  thin 
lemon  peel  simmered  for  the  last  half  hour  in  the  milk 
makes  an  agreeable  flavoring. 

MAPLE  MARGUERITES 

ij^,  cups  brown  sugar  J^  cup  water 

J^  cup  chopped  nut  meats  J4  to  J^  teaspoon  maple  flavor- 

Crackers  ing 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  threads  or, 
when^  dropped  into  cold  water,  will  form  a  soft  ball.  Allow 
the  syrup  to  cool  for  a  moment  or  two,  add  the  flavoring, 
and  beat  until  of  the  proper  consistency  to  spread.  Add 
half  of  the  nuts,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  the  crackers. 
While  still  fresh,  sprinkle  over  the  remainder  of  the  chopped 
nuts. 


26o  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

RESTORATIVE  JELLY 

I  ounce  of  barley  2  pints  water 

I  ounce  of  rice  J^  small  lemon 

I  ounce  of  sago  i  tablespoon  sugar 

Thoroughly  wash  the  rice,  sago,  and  barley,  and  put  into 
a  double  saucepan  with  the  water,  also  lemon  rind  cut  thin. 
Let  them  simmer  for  three  hours,  then  strain,  and  add  the 
sugar.     Serve  cold. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

I  ounce  tapioca  Thin  rind  of  J^  lemon 

I  pint  milk  i  tablespoon  finely  grated  bread 

I  dessertspoon  sugar  crumbs 

Yi  ounce  butter  A  little  grated  nutmeg 

Wash  the  tapioca,  and  put  it  in  a  pie  dish.  Cover  it  with 
boiling  water,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour.  Pour  off  any  of 
the  water  that  has  not  been  absorbed.  Meantime,  put  the 
milk  to  simmer  with  the  lemon  rind,  until  it  is  nicely  flavored, 
then  remove  the  lemon,  and  add  the  sugar  and  butter. 
Sprinkle  the  bread  crumbs  over  the  tapioca,  and  pour  over 
the  milk.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  pudding,  and  bake 
for  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

TAPIOCA  AND  APPLE  PUDDING 

I  ounce  tapioca  J^,  ounce  butter 

I  pint  of  milk  J^  pint  stewed  apple 

I  dessertspoon  sugar  A  little  grated  nutmeg 

Wash  the  tapioca,  and  soak  it  in  as  much  water  —  boil- 
ing —  as  will  cover  it,  for  an  hour.  Boil  the  milk  and  put 
in  the  sugar  and  butter.  Place  the  apples  at  the  bottom  of 
a  pie  dish.  Now  pour  away  any  water  that  has  not  been 
absorbed  by  the  tapioca,  and  spread  the  tapioca  over  the 
apples.  Pour  in  the  sweetened  milk,  and  grate  a  little  nut- 
meg over  all.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  an  bwr. 


COLD  DESSERTS  261 

PINEAPPLE  TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

J4  cup  minute  or  pearl  tapioca      J4  cup  lemon  juice 
Cold  water  to  cover  i  cup  finely  cut  pineapple 

2J/2  cups  boiling  water  J4  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  finely  cut  pineapple 

Soak  the  pearl  tapioca  in  cold  water  to  cover  for  several 
hours  or  use  the  minute  tapioca  which  does  not  require  soak- 
ing. Drain,  and  add  the  boiling  water  and  the  salt.  Cook 
in  a  double  boiler  until  thoroughly  transparent.  Then  add 
the  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Cut  sliced  pineapple  into  small 
pieces,  and  stir  in  the  tapioca.     Serve  cold. 

CASTLE  PUDDINGS 

2  ounces  of  butter  ij^  ounces  sugar 

2  ounces  flour  J4  lemon  rind 

I  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  until  it  is  like  cream,  then  add 
the  grated  lemon  rind.  Put  in  the  flour,  to  which  has  been 
added  the  baking  powder,  a  little  at  a  time,  beating  it  well 
as  the  flour  is  added.  Butter  some  small  molds,  and  bake 
fifteen  minutes.  Serve  with  sweet  or  lemon  sauce.  Angel- 
ica handles  and  crystallized  cherries  may  be  added  if  de- 
sired, to  form  into  little  baskets. 

CASTLE  BASKETS 

6  castle  puddings  3  ounces  of  angelica 

4  ounces  red  currant  jelly  Juice  of  J^  lemon 

3  gills  of  cream  2  ounces  cocoanut  ^ 

I  tablespoon  sugar 

Take  the  castle  puddings,  which  should  be  a  day  old, 
carefully  scoop  out  the  middle,  roll  them  in  a  little  jelly 
then  in  the  cocoanut,  so  that  they  are  well  covered.  Whip 
the  cream  with  the  sugar  until  thick;  add  the  lemon  juice 
and  fill  the  baskets  with  this.  Cut  the  angelica  into  long 
strips,  and  form  the  handles  tq  the  baskets.     Serve  cold. 


FRUIT  DESSERTS 

Laden  with  fairest  fruit  that  hung  to  the  eye 
Tempting,  stirred  in  me  sudden  appetite 
To  pluck  and  eat. 

Milton. 

COMPOTE  OF  MIXED  FRUITS 

Strawberries,  Grapes,  Raspberries,  Nectarines,  Green  Figs,  Melon, 
Pineapple,  etc. 

Cut  up  the  larger  fruits,  and  sift  a  little  sugar  over  all  in 
a  dish.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  following:  One  pound  of 
sugar,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  water.  Boil  together  until 
reduced  to  a  pint,  and  pour  over  while  hot,  and  let  it  stand 
on  ice  for  twenty-four  hours.  Turn  into  a  salad  bowl,  and 
serve  very  cold.  Make  plenty  of  syrup  so  that  the  fruit 
floats  about  in  it. 

COMPOTE  OF  FRUIT  WITH  RICE 

Prepare  one-third  of  the  boiled  rice  recipe. 

Prepare  a  fruit  dressing  of  the  following  ingredients: 
J4  cup  pineapple  juice  J4  cup  sugar 

^  cup  boiling  water  J^  tablespoon  cornstarch 

Braid  the  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  water.  Stir  into 
the  boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly  an  hour  or  more  in  a 
double  boiler.  Add  the  sugar,  and  the  pineapple  juice,  arid 
reheat.  Add  one-half  cup  of  diced  pineapple,  eight  to  ten 
California  cherries  —  canned  or  fresh  —  cut  in  small  pieces, 
one-quarter  cup  diced  bananas  and  two  tablespoons  lemon 
juice. 

262 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  263 

Malaga  grapes  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  cherries  if 
desired. 

Serve  a  spoon  of  steamed  rice  in  a  stemmed  compote 
dish,  and  on  top  of  it  place  a  generous  spoon  of  the  fruit 
compote. 

FRUIT  MACEDOINE 

3  oranges  i  can  sliced  pineapple 

3  bananas  Powdered  sugar 

Lemon  juice 

Peel  the  oranges  deep  enough  into  the  flesh  to  remove 
all  the  white  skin.  Slice  into  half-inch  slices;  then  cut  into 
small  cubes.  Drain  the  juice  from  a  pint  can  of  pineapples, 
and  cut  the  slices  into  small  triangular  shaped  pieces. 

Peel  the  banana,  and  cut  into  half-inch  cubes.  Mix  the 
fruits,  and  put  into  stemmed  sherbet  glasses.  Pour  over 
each  serving  about  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  also  a  tea- 
spoon or  more  of  powdered  sugar. 

STEWED  PRUNES 
I  pound  of  prunes  3  half-pints  water 

Wash  the  prunes  well,  and  put  them  in  a  bowl  with  three 
half-pints  of  cold  water,  and  let  them  soak  for  twelve 
hours.  Lift  them  from  the  water  with  a  spoon,  so  as  to  let 
all  impurities  sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  bowl.  Put  them 
In  a  saucepan,  and  strain  the  water  that  the  prunes  were 
soaked  in  over  them,  being  careful  to  leave  all  the  sediment 
at  the  bottom.  Now  put  them  where  they  will  simmer 
slowly,  until  they  are  quite  tender  but  unbroken.  This  will 
take  from  two  to  three  hours. 

CASSEROLE  OF  PRUNES 

I  pound  of  prunes  %  pound  of  lump  sugar 

J4  ounce  vegetable  gelatine  i  pint  of  water 

Wash  the  prunes  thoroughly,  and  cook  them  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  in  the  water.     Drain  them  through  a 


264  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

sieve,  and  carefully  remove  the  stones  without  breaking 
the  fruit  more  than  is  necessary.  Take  out  the  kernels  and 
put  in  each  prune.  Put  the  water  that  the  prunes  were 
cooked  in  into  a  clean  saucepan,  with  the  sugar,  and  boil  for 
thirty  minutes;  then  add  the  prunes,  and  let  it  simmer  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water  for 
an  hour  before  using  it;  add  it  to  the  prunes  when  they  have 
simmered  fifteen  minutes,  and  stir  gently  until  dissolved. 
Rinse  out  a  mold  with  cold  water,  fill  it,  and  let  it  stand  until 
next  day.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

PRUNE  FLUFF 

i/^  pounds  dried  prunes  %  cup  whipping  cream 

Wash  the  prunes,  and  put  in  boiling  water  for  a  few  min- 
utes. Drain,  and  soak  in  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  for 
twenty-four  to  thirty-six  hours  or  until  the  prunes  are  soft. 
Drain  off  the  liquid.  Remove  the  stones,  and  pass  the 
prunes  through  a  colander.  This  quantity  should  make 
three  cups  of  pulp.  Whip  the  cream,  and  fold  into  the 
prune  pijlp.     Serve  in  stemmed  sherbet  glasses. 

RICE  WITH  PRUNE  FLUFF 

J4  cup  rice  ^  cup  whipping  cream 

2%  cups  dried  prunes  %  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  sugar  J^  cup  cream 

^3  cup  milk 

Wash  the  jirunes  thoroughly;  three-quarters  pound  will 
make  the  required  amount.  Pour  over  them  boiling  water, 
and  let  stand  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  soak  in  cold  water 
for  twenty-four  to  thirty-six  hours  or  until  soft.  Remove 
the  seeds,  rub  the  prunes  through  a  colander.  Steam  the 
rice  in  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  water  until  the  water  is  ab- 
sorbed. Then  add  the  cream  and  the  hot  milk,  and  steam 
until  tender.     Add  the  sugar  to  the  prune  puree.     Place  a 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  265 

spoonful  of  the  steamed  rice  on  a  small- plate.     On  top  of 
this  and  beside  it,  place  a  generous  spoonful  of  the  fluff. 

STEAMED  FIGS 

Wash  the  figs  in  hot  water,  cut  off  the  stem  and  blossom 
ends,  place  in  a  steamer  or  in  a  colander  over  hot  water, 
cover  tightly,  and  steam  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  Serve, 
with  or  without  cream.  This  is  one  of  the  most  delicious 
ways  of  serving  figs. 

STUFFED  FIGS 

Select  natural  or  pressed  figs,  remove  the  stems,  and  wash 
in  hot  water.  Put  in  a  steamer  or  colander  over  a  dish  of 
hot  water,  cover  closely,  and  steam  until  thoroughly 
softened;  then  remove  from  the  heat,  and  when  cool,  stuff 
each  fig  with  a  walnut  meat  by  making  an  opening  in  the 
side  of  the  fig  and  enclosing  the  nut.  Before  serving, 
sprinkle  the  figs  with  granulated  sugar. 

FIG  AND  APPLE  TART 

J/2  pound  of  figs  3  ounces  of  sugar 

Y^  pound  of  apples  J4  pint  water 

Paste 

See  that  the  figs  are  quite  clean,  then  put  them  In  an  en- 
ameled stdwpan  with  the  sugar  and  water.  Bring  them 
very  quickly  to  the  boiling  point,  then  put  them  where  they 
will  just  simmer  gently,  keeping  the  pan  covered  for  an 
hour  and  a  half.  Now  turn  them  into  a  tart  dish,  and  add 
the  apples,  which  must  be  weighed  after  they  are  peeled  and 
sliced.  Mix  them  together  and  cover  them  with  a  paste. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Raise  the  crust  gently  when  it  is  suf- 
ficiently baked,  and  see  whether  the  apples  are  tender.  If 
not,  let  the  tart  stand  on  the  top  of  the  stove  for  a  few  min- 
utes to  finish  them.  Serve  cold  with  plain  cream  or  ice- 
cream on  each  slice. 


266  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

FIG  PUDDING  NO.  i 

8  ounces  of  figs  i  ounce  of  sugar 

8  ounces  of  bread  or  rusk  crumbs     i  tablespoon  of  syrup 
6  ounces  of  butter  3^  pint  milk 

Warm  the  syrup  and  milk  together,  chop  the  figs  very 
fine.  Mix  the  sugar  and  butter  together ;  add  to  the  other 
ingredients,  and  mix  very  carefully.  Steam  In  a  buttered 
basin  one  hour  and  a  half. 

FIG  PUDDING  NO.  2 

4  ounces  of  bread  crumbs  J4  lemon  rind 

3  ounces  of  figs  .J4  pint  milk 

I  tablespoon  sugar 

Chop  the  figs  into  small  pieces,  and  mix  well  with  the 
bread  crumbs,  sugar  and  grated  lemon  rind.  Add  the  milk, 
and  mix  all  well  together;  pour  into  a  well-buttered  basin, 
and  steam  for  three  hours. 

MULBERRY  JELLY 

ij^'  pints  mulberry  juice  4  ounces  of  tapioca 

Sugar 

Extract  the  juice  from  the  mulberries  by  placing  them  in 
a  jar  and  bruising  them  with  a  wooden  spoon;  then  place  the 
jar  —  which  must  be  covered  —  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water.  Let  the  water  boil  until  the  juice  flows  freely  from 
the  mulberries;  then  strain  them  through  a  fine  hair  sieve. 
Do  not  squeeze  the  mulberries,  but  let  the  juice  drop  slowly 
through.  Crush  the  tapioca  so  that  no  lumps  remain ;  then 
pour  the  mulberry  juice  over  it,  and  let  It  stand  all  night. 
Boil  it  until  It  is  quite  clear,  stirring  to  keep  It  from  burn- 
ing, and  add  sugar  to  taste.  Pour  into  small  molds  which 
have  been  standing  in  cold  water.     Serve  with  cream. 

Windfalls  do  quite  well  for  this  dish,  and  those  who  pos- 
sess mulberry  trees  will  find  that  the  fruit  can  be  utilized 
to  great  advantage  in  this  way. 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  267 

CHERRY  CAKE 

54  pound  butter  2    ounces  almonds 

54  pound  bread  crumbs  Cinnamon,  cloves 

2  pounds  black  cherries  2  ounces  sugar 

5^  pint  of  milk 
Pick,  and  stone  the  cherries.  Make  the  milk  hot,  and 
melt  the  butter  in  it.  Blanch  the  almonds,  and  put  them 
through  a  nut  mill,  and  pound  them  well  in  a  mortar.  Now 
mix  the  almonds  with  the  bread  crumbs,  sugar  and  a  pinch 
each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Pour  over  the  milk,  and  also 
melted  butter,  mix  again  carefully,  and  add  the  cherries. 
Bake  in  a  shallow  tin  in  a  moderate  oven  for  an  hour.  The 
cake  should  be  about  an  inch  and  a  half  thick.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

STEWED  CHERRIES 

I  pound  of  cooking  cherries  J4  pi"t  water 

6  ounces  of  sugar 
Make  a  syrup  with  the  sugar  and  water,  that  is,  just  melt 
the  sugar  in  the  water,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil  or  thicken ; 
then  pour  it  over  the  cherries,  and  bring  them  quickly  to 
boiling  point,  and  skim  well.  Now  let  them  simmer  slowly 
until  they  are  tender.     Then  turn  them  into  a  bowl  to  cool. 

BAKED  BANANAS  NO.  i 

Remove  the  skins  from  the  required  number  of  bananas, 
and  sCrape  off  all  fuzzy  portions  next  to  skin.  Dip  the 
bananas  in  milk;  then  into  toasted  bread  crumbs.  Place  in 
an  oiled  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty  to  forty 
minutes  or  until  perfectly  tender.  Baked  bananas  are  a  very 
wholesome  dish. 

BAKED  BANANAS  NO.  2 

Loosen  and  remove  the  banana  from  the  skin;  then  re- 
place.    Put  in  shallow  pan,  cover,  and  bake  until  skin  is  very 


268  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

dark  and  the  banana  soft,  about  half  an  hour.     Serve  in 
the  skin  or  remove  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

BANANA  PUDDING 

6  bananas  3  tablespoons  of  strawberry  jam 

Whipped  cream 

Peel  and  mash  the  bananas ;  put  the  jam  into  a  round  glass 
dish,  and  place  the  bananas  round  it.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  put  round. 

BANANAS  STEWED 

4  bananas  ^  pint  water 

3  ounces  lump  sugar 

Peel,  and  slice  the  bananas,  and  either  stew  or  bake  them 
in  a  jar  in  the  water  and  sugar  until  tender.  The  juice 
should  be  syrup. 

BANANAS  AND  CREAM  NO.  i 

6  bananas  i  ounce  of  butter 

I  ounce  sugar  %  pint  cream 

Teaspoon  rum 

Peel,  and  cut  the  bananas  into  rather  thick  slices,  put  them 
into  a  glass  dish,  and  sprinkle  over  the  sugar.  Warm  the 
cream  and  butter  together,  add  the  flavoring,  let  it  stand  in 
the  saucepan  about  five  minutes ;  then  pour  over  the  bananas, 
and  serve  with  finger  biscuits. 

BANANAS  AND  CREAM  NO.  2 

6  bananas  i  tablespoon  sugar 

J^  pint  cream 

Peel,  and  slice  the  bananas  into  two-inch  lengths ;  put  into 
a  glass  dish;  sprinkle  over  the  sugar.  Whip  the  cream, 
and  cover  the  tananas.  Serve  with  any  cold  milk  mold. 
The  slices  may  be  moistened  with  sherry  or  kirsch. 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  269 

BANANA  DESSERT 
4  bananas  i  cup  whipped  cream 

Put  the  bananas  through  a  colander.  Beat  the  bananas 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

BANANA  FRITTERS 

2  bananas  i  dessertspoon  of  sugar 

Juice  of  J4  orange  Batter 

Cut  the  bananas  in  quarters  lengthwise.  Lay  them  in  a 
small  deep  dish,  and  sprinkle  them  with  the  sugar;  then 
squeeze  the  orange  juice  over  them.  Let  them  lie  in  the 
juice  for  three  or  four  hours,  and  then  drain  them  carefully, 
and  dip  them  in  frying  batter,  and  fry  them  in  oil. 

GRAPEFRUIT  COCKTAIL 

Peel  a  grapefruit  as  you  would  an  apple,  taking  off  all 
the  white  skin.  Remove  the  meat  from  each  section,  and 
cut  into  small  pieces.  Keep  on  ice  until  thoroughly  chilled. 
Place  a  large  spoon  in  a  cocktail  glass,  and  pour  over  it  a 
spoon  of  chilled  orange  juice.  Just  before  serving,  sprinkle 
over  all  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  powdered  sugar. 

FRUIT  COCKTAIL 

J^  pound  Tokay  grapes  i  cup  diced  apples 

I  cup  diced  pineapple  J4  cup  pineapple  juice 

^  cup  lemon  juice 

Wash  the  grapes,  pick  from  the  stem,  and  remove  the 
seeds  by  cutting  the  grapes  lengthwise  into  quarters.  After 
removing  the  seeds,  cut  each  quarter  in  half  crosswise,  mak- 
ing eight  pieces  of  the  grapes.  Cut  the  pineapple  into  small 
cubes.  The  canned  pineapple  serves  for  this  purpose, 
though  fresh  pineapple  may  be  used  instead.  Peel  the 
apples,  and  cut  into  small  cubes,  and  mix  immediately  with 
the  lemon  juice  to  prevent  discoloration.  Add  the  pineapple 
juice  and  the  other  fruits.     Let  this  stand  on  ice  two  or 


270  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

three  hours  until  the  flavors  are  well  blended.  Just  before 
serving,  place  the  fruit  in  stemmed  sherbet  glasses,  and  pack 
in  ice  in  compote  dishes.  On  top  of  the  fruit,  pipe  a  rosette 
of  whipped  cream  through  a  star-shaped  pastry  tube.  The 
cream  should  be  slightly  sweetened  and  flavored  with  a  little 
lemon  or  almond  extract. 

HYDRATED  APRICOTS 

I  pound  dried  apricots  2^  cups  water 

Look  the  apricots  over  carefully.  Wash,  and  soak  in 
two  and  one-half  cups  of  water  for  twelve  hours.  When 
thoroughly  softened,  add  sugar  to  taste  and  serve  uncooked. 

STEWED  APRICOTS 

Yz  pound  apricots  J^  cup  sugar 

Water 

Wash,  and  sort  the  fruit,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  soak 
several  hours,  or  over  night.  Long  soaking  improves  all 
dried  fruits.  Put  in  enough  water  to  cover,  and  bring  to  the 
boiling  point.  Drain,  and  cover  again  with  cold  water. 
Cook  slowly  until  apricots  are  tender,  then  add  the  sugar. 
Stir  lightly,  and  cook  five  minutes.     Serve  cold. 

To  make  an  apricot  sauce,  force  through  a  strainer,  and 
add  orange  juice  to  taste. 

APRICOTS  A  LA  COND:^ 

Prepare  steamed  rice,  and  turn  into  oblong  pans. 

Cool,  and  cut  into  two-inch  squares.  To  a  quart  can  of 
peeled  apricots,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  cook  five  minutes. 
Arrange  a  square  of  steamed  rice  on  a  dessert  plate  with 
two  half  apricots  beside  it.  Pour  over  it  a  spoonful  of  the 
syrup  from  the  apricots,  and  on  top  serve  a  spoon  of  whipped 
cream.  Chop  pistachio  nuts  quite  finely,  and  sprinkle  on  top 
of  the  whipped  cream. 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  271 

BAKED  APPLES 

6  medium-sized  apples  i  cup  water 

I  lemon  ^4  cup  sugar 

Wipe,  core,  and  pare  the  apples.  Put  In  baking  dish 
with  a  slice  of  lemon  on  top  of  each.  Make  a  syrup  of 
the  sugar  and  water.  Pour  around  the  apples,  cover,  and 
bake  slowly  until  soft.  Serve  cold  with  cream  or  with  one 
teaspoon  jelly  in  the  center  of  each  apple.  If  desired,  the 
apples  may  also  be  flavored  with  cloves  by  placing  four 
cloves  in  the  side  of  each  apple  at  an  even  distance  apart. 

Sweet  apples  are  always  tough  when  cooked.  The  acid 
of  the  lemon  helps  to  soften  the  cellulose  of  the  apple.  The 
skins  of  the  apple  break  when  baking  because  the  steam  of 
the  apple  must  escape,  therefore  it  forces  an  opening  in  the 
thinnest  part  of  the  skin.  A  line  cut  around  the  center  of 
the  apple  will  prevent  its  breaking.  Basting  apples  while 
cooking  makes  the  skin  tender. 

Steamed  apples  are  served  for  baking  apples  in  many  of 
the  best  hotels  and  restaurants,  as  they  retain  their  color 
and  flavor  much  better  than  when  baked. 

MAPLE  APPLE 

I  cup  maple  syrup  i  cup  water 

4  medium-sized  apples 

Pare  and  core  the  apples.  Heat  the  water  and  syrup  to 
the  boiling  point.  Drop  the  apples  into  the  heated  liquid, 
turning  often  in  order  to  insure  cooking  uniformly.  Re- 
move the  apples  when  tender.  Allow  the  liquid  to  cook 
down  to  a  syrupy  consistency,  and  pour  over  the  apples. 

HONEY  APPLES 

6  medium-sized  apples  6  teaspoons  butter 

6  tablespoons  honey  i  cup  hot  water 

Pare,  and  core  the  apples;  place  In  a  dripping  pan,  and 


272  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

fill  the  center  of  each  apple  with  one  tablespoon  of  honey 
and  one  teaspoon  of  butter;  add  the  cup  of  hot  water;  cover 
the  pan,  and  set  in  a  rather  quick  oven.  When  the  boiling 
point  is  reached,  reduce  the  heat,  so  that  the  apples  will 
cook  gently.  Turn  the  apples  occasionally;  a  few  minutes 
before  the  baking  is  finished  remove  the  cover,  and  let  the 
apples  brown  slightly.     Serve  with  whipped  cream, 

APPLE  FRITTERS 
Apples  Batter 

Peel,  and  core  the  apples,  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices; 
dip  them  in  the  batter,  and  fry  in  boiling  oil.  The  fritters 
will  be  much  improved  if  the  slices  of  apples  are  boiled 
for  one  minute  in  sugar  and  water,  and  drained  before  dip- 
ping them  in  the  batter, 

APPLE  TART 

Apples  Cloves 

Paste  Sugar 

Peel,  and  slice  some  apples,  and  fill  a  tart  dish  of  the 
size  required.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  a  tablespoon  of 
water,  or  two  if  the  tart  is  large.  Put  in  one  or  two  cloves 
if  the  flavor  is  liked.  Line  the  edges  of  the  dish  with  paste 
one-third  of  an  inch  thick,  put  on  a  cover,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  When  the  crust  is  cooked,  raise  it  carefully 
with  a  knife  to  see  whether  the  apples  are  soft,  and  if  not 
let  the  tart  remain  on  the  stove  until  the  apples  are  suffi- 
ciently cooked. 

NORMANDY  PIPPINS  STEWED 

J4  pound  Normandy  pippins  6  ounces  sugar 

I  quart  water 

Wash  the  pippins  well,  and  soak  them  over  night  in  one 
quart  of  water.  Remove  the  apples  from  the  water  with  a 
spoon,  so  as  to  let  all  impurities  sink  to  the  bottom  of  the 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  273 

bowl.  Now  pour  off  the  water  that  the  pippins  have  been 
soaked  in,  and  strain  it  over  them,  leaving  the  sediment. 
Add  the  sugar,  and  let  them  boil  up  quickly,  when  they  must 
be  well  skimmed.  Now  put  them  where  they  will  simmer 
slowly,  until  they  are  quite  tender  but  unbroken  and  they 
have  turned  a  rich  brown.  This  will  take  between  three  and 
four  hours.  If  Normandy  pippins  are  cooked  quickly  they 
are  quite  spoiled. 

APPLES  WITH  ROLLED  OATS 

6  large  applet  i  quart  water 

iJ4  cups  sugar  i  cup  cooked  rolled  oats 

Cook  the  rolled  oats.  Pare  the  apples,  and  cook  in  a 
syrup  of  the  water  and  sugar.  Turn  frequently.  When 
the  apples  are  done,  fill  the  centers  with  cooked  rolled  oats. 
Boil  down  the  syrup  until  of  a  rather  thick  consistency,  and 
pour  over  the  apples.  Other  left  over  cereals  may  be  used 
in  the  same  way. 

NORMANDY  PUDDING 

6  ounces  bread  crumbs  i  saltspoon  ground  cloves 

6  ounces  sugar  I  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon 

6  small  sour  cooking  apples  i  lemon 

Peel,  slice  and  core  the  apples,  or  chop  them  up  not  too 
finely ;  put  them  with  all  the  other  dry  ingredients  in  a  basin, 
and  stir  well.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  add  the  lemon 
juice  and  the  finely  grated  rind  of  a  half  of  it;  also,  a  little 
brandy  or  rum  if  liked.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  well 
greased  mold,  and  tie  over  a  greased  cloth  or  paper,  and 
steam  for  about  three  hours.  Serve  with  white  wine  sauce. 
The  use  of  rum  or  brandy  is  optional.  The  pudding  is  much 
more  tasty  if  one  or  the  other  is  added.  Serve  both  the 
sauce  and  the  pudding  very  hot  as  the  latter  is  not  so  delicious 
when  cold. 


274  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

MACARONI  AND  APPLE  PUDDING 

1  pound  of  apples  2  ounces  white  bread  crumbs 
4  ounces  pipe  macaroni  i  tablespoon  cream 

2  ounces  sugar  Rind  of  Y^  lemon  grated 

I  ounce  butter 

Cook  the  macaroni  in  boiling  water  for  three-quarters  of 
an  hour  or  until  it  is  tender  but  not  broken;  drain  it  well. 
Butter  a  pie  dish  or  a  pudding  basin,  and  line  with  the 
macaroni.  Now  sprinkle  it  with  bread  crumbs.  Pare  and 
cut  up  the  apples  very  fine ;  mix  with  the  grated  lemon  peel, 
cream  and  sugar.  Fill  the  basin  with  this  mixture,  and 
sprinkle  a  few  bread  crumbs  on  top.  Cut  up  the  butter, 
and  put  small  pieces  on  the  bread  crumbs.  Now  add  a 
layer  of  macaroni;  trim  it  round,  cover  with  a  plate,  and 
bake  one  hour.     Turn  out  and  serve  with  a  white  sauce. 

RICE  AND  APPLE  PUDDING 

1  breakfast  cup  of  rice  2  cloves 

6  good  looking  apples  J/2  lemon,  rind  only 

2  teaspoons  sugar 

Boil  the  rice  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  boiling  water; 
strain  through  a  hair  sieve.  Put  a  cloth  into  a  pudding 
basin,  lay  the  rice  all  around  it  like  a  crust ;  quarter  some  ap- 
ples as  for  a  tart,  and  lay  them  in  the  middle  of  the  rice, 
add  the  sugar,  lemon  rind  and  cloves  over  the  apples  with 
rice,  and  tie  the  cloth  fairly  tight.  Boil  the  pudding  for 
one  hour,  or  steam  it  for  one  and  one-half  hours,  and  serve 
with  some  sweet  sauce  poured  over. 

APPLE  JELLY  NO.  i 

7  pounds  of  apples  2  ounces  root  ginger 

2  ounces  blanched  almonds  i  teaspoon  ground  ginger 

3  pints  water 

Boil  the  apples  In  the  water  for  an  hour  and  a  half;  then 
strain  through  a  sieve.     Add  to  each  pint  of  liquor  three- 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  275 

quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  boil  the  liquor  twenty 
minutes.  Then  add  the  sugar  and  ginger,  and  boil  twenty 
minutes  more.  Put  the  jelly  into  small  jars,  and  before  it 
sets  drop  in  the  nuts.  Lemon  juice  may  be  added  instead  of 
ginger  if  preferred. 

APPLE  JELLY  NO.  2 

6  pounds  of  apples  3  pints  of  water 

Lump  sugar 

Peel,  core,  and  cut  up  the  apples,  and  bake  in  a  stew  jar 
with  three  pints  of  water.  When  a  pulp,  turn  into  a  jelly 
bag,  and  hang  over  a  pan  all  night  for  juice  to  run  through. 
To  every  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  lump  sugar,  and  boil 
one  hour ;  when  properly  done,  it  will  be  stiff.  Put  into  air- 
tight jars. 

APPLE  MOLD 
4  pounds  of  apples  i  pound  lump  sugar 

Wipe  the  apples  quite  clean,  core,  and  cut  them  up,  and 
put  in  a  stew  jar  in  the  oven  with  a  little  sugar  sprinkled 
over,  and  stew  till  quite  soft,  and  allow  to  cool.  When  cold, 
rub  through  a  sieve.  Rinse  a  preserving  pan  with  cold 
water  and  put  in  the  pulp,  together  with  the  sugar,  and  boil 
about  half  an  hour,  stirring  all  the  time.  It  requires  great 
care  to  prevent  burning, '  and  must  be  boiled  quickly,  or  it 
will  not  set  firmly  in  the  mold,  which  must  be  rinsed  with 
cold  water  before  putting  in  the  jelly. 

APPLE  PUDDING 
Paste  Apples  Sugar 

Line  a  pudding  bowl  with  paste  according  to  recipe  {oh 
paste  for  puddings.  Fill  it  with  sliced  apples,  and  sweeten 
to  taste.  Put  on  cover  of  paste,  and  steam.  A  pudding 
made  in  a  pint  basin  will  take  two  hours  to  steam,  and  one 
made  in  a  quart  basin  will  take  three  hours. 


276  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

ALMOND  APPLE 

8  tart  apples  ^  pound  almonds 

lyi  cups  sugar  i  lemon 

i^  cups  water  i  tablespoon  cornstarch 

Core,  and  pare  the  apples.  Cut  the  lemon  in  half,  and 
rub  the  apples  with  the  lemon  to  prevent  discoloration. 
Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water.  Cook  the  apples 
in  the  syrup.  Remove  from  the  syrup  when  done,  and  place 
in  a  pudding  dish.  Press  obliquely  into  them  the  blanched 
almonds  split  in  halves.  Dredge  the  apples  and  almonds 
with  sugar,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Add  one  cup  water 
and  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice  to  the  syrup.  Moisten  the 
cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  add  to  the  hot  syrup. 
Cook  five  minutes.  Place  the  apples  in  a  serving  dish,  and 
pour  the  syrup  around  them.  Serve  cold  with  whipped 
cream. 

BROWN  BETTY 
3  cups  chopped  apples  j4^  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  Juice  and  rind  )4.  lemon 

J4  cup  sugar  J4  cup  water 

^  teaspoon  cinnamon  2  tablespoons  butter 

Mix  the  sugar  with  the  spices.  Arrange  one-half  of  the 
crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Place  one-half  the  apples, 
one-half  the  sugar  and  one-half  the  lemon  juice,  also  one- 
half  the  melted  butter,  over  them,  then  one-fourth  of  the 
bread  crumbs  and  the  remainder  of  the  apples,  the  sugar, 
the  lemon  and  the  melted  butter.  Over  all  this  pour  the 
water.  If  apples  are  very  juicy,  omit  all  or  part  of  the 
water.  Cover  with  the  remaining  fourth  of  the  bread 
crumbs.  Put  in  a  moderate  oven,  cover,  and  bake  until 
the  apples  begin  to  get  tender ;  then  remove  the  cover. 

BROWN  BETTY  WITH  CHEESE 
Arrange  in  a  deep  earthenware  baking  dish,   alternate 
layers  of  bread  crumbs  and  thinly  sliced  apples.     Season 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  277 

with  cinnamon,  also  a  little  clove  if  desired  and  brown  sugar. 
Scatter  some  finely  shaved  mild  full-cream  cheese  over  each 
layer  of  apple^  When  the  dish  is  full,  scatter  bread  crumbs 
over  the  top,  and  bake  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes,  placing 
the  dish  in  a  pan  of  water  so  that  the  pudding  will  not  burn. 

If  preferred,  this  may  be  sweetened  with  molasses  mixed 
with  an  equal  amount  of  hot  water,  and  poured  over  the 
top,  a  half  cup  of  molasses  being  sufficient  for  a  quart  pud- 
ding dishful. 

Cheese  may  be  used  in  place  of  butter  in  a  similar  way  in 
other  apple  puddings.  Apple  pie  made  with  a  layer  of  finely 
shaved  cheese  over  the  seasoned  apple  and  baked  in  the  usual 
way  is  liked  by  many  who  are  fond  of  cheese  served  with 
apple  pie. 

APPLE  SNOW  BALLS 
ij^  cups  rice  6  to  8  apples 

3^   quarts  water  2  tablespoons  sugar 

syi   teaspoons  salt  i   teaspoon  cinnamon 

Cook  the  rice  in  boiling  salted  water,  and  drain  and  dry. 
Wash,  core  and  pare  the  apples.  Wring  out  small  pudding 
cloths,  or  squares  of  cheese  cloth,  in  hot  water.  Spread 
the  rice  one-third  inch  over  the  cloth,  place  apples  in  the 
center,  with  one  teaspoon  of  sugar  mixed  with  one-sixth  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon  in  the  center.  Draw  up  the  cloth  around 
the  fruit  until  it  is  covered  with  rice.  Tie  in  the  apples 
being  careful  not  to  have  the  rice  and  cloth  in  folds,  and 
steam  until  fruit  is  tender  —  one-half  to  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.     Serve  with  lemon  sauce  or  cream. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM  DESSERT 

'^2   cup  rice  i    ciip  cream 

2  slices  Hawaiian  pineapple  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Boil  the  rice  until  tender  but  not  broken.  Drain,  and 
dry  for  about  five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  and  cool. 


27'8  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Cut  the  pineapple  intd  small  pieces,  and  add  the  sugar.  Stir 
the  rice  occasionally,  as  It  is  cooling,  to  prevent  its  packing. 
When  the  mixture  is  thoroughly  cold,  whip  the  cream  until 
stiff.  Heavy  cream  is  preferable,  but  thin  cream  may  be 
made  to  whip  if  thoroughly  chilled.  Fold  the  whipped 
cream  into  the  mixture. 

PEACH  TRIFLE 

2  pounds  of  peaches  4  ounces  sugar 

I  gill  of  water  Stale  plain  cake 

I  gill  cream 

Cut  the  peaches  in  halves,  removing  the  stones,  cook  them 
with  the  sugar  and  water  until  tender,  but  not  broken.  Re- 
move the  center  of  the  cake,  being  careful  not  to  break  it, 
leaving  a  wall  about  an  inch  and  a  quarter  thick  all  around. 
Soak  this  with  the  syrup,  and  fill  the  corners  with  the  fruit. 
Whip  the  cream  with  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  put  around 
the  top  of  the  cake,  leaving  the  fruit  piled  up  in  the  center. 

PEACHES  AND  CREAM  WITH  RICE  BISCUIT 

Select  thoroughly  ripened  peaches  or  whole  halves  of 
canned  fruit.  Place  a  half  peach  on  a  toasted  rice  biscuit, 
and  serve  immediately  with  whipped  cream. 

RASPBERRY  JAM 

I  pound  of  raspberries  ^  pound  of  crushed  loaf  sugar 

When  the  fruit  has  been  carefully  picked,  put  it  with  the 
sugar  in  layers  on  a  dish,  or  in  a  deep  bowl,  according  to  the 
quantity  of  fruit  that  is  to  be  preserved.  Let  it  remain  for 
four  hours,  and  then  turn  it  into  a  preserving  pan,  and  bring 
it  to  a  boiling  point  quickly,  stirring  almost  continuously  to 
prevent  from  burning.  Remove  the  scum  as  it  rises  or  the 
jam  will  not  be  clear.  Let  it  boil  gently  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour,  after  it  boils  evenly  all  over.     Turn  it  into  jars, 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  279 

and  when  cold  cover  in  the  ordinary  way,  and  store  it  in  a 
dry  place. 

RASPBERRY  JELLY 
I  pint  of  raspberry  juice  i  pound  of  loaf  sugar 

To  draw  the  juice  from  the  berries,  put  them  in  a  jar,  and 
bruise  them  slightly;  then  place  the  jar  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water  and  keep  it  boiling  gently  until  the  juice  flows  freely. 
Lay  a  piece  of  muslin  in  a  fine  sieve,  and  pour  the  juice  into  it 
until  no  more  flows;  then  turn  the  fruit  into  the  sieve,  and 
leave  it  to  let  the  juice  dr^in  away  from  it,  but  it  must  not  be 
pressed  or  the  juice  will  be  muddy.  Measure  the  juice  care- 
fully, and  add  the  sugar  in  lumps,  in  the  quantity  given. 
Let  it  boil  gently,  and  skim  it  carefully.  When  it  has  boiled 
for  half  an  hour,  pour  a  teaspoon  on  a  cold  plate,  and  if  it 
sets  the  jelly  is  done;  if  not,  let  it  boil  a  little  longer.  Put 
it  in  small  pots,  and  cover  when  cold  in  the  usual  way.  The 
flavor  is  much  improved  by  one  part  of  red  currant  juice 
being  used  to  two  parts  of  raspberry. 

COOKED  SULTANAS 
Pick  over,  and  clean  any  quantity  of  sultanas,  and  cover 
them  with  boiling  water  at  night,  and  they  are  ready  for 
breakfast  next  morning.     May  be  eaten  alone  or  with  por- 
ridge or  wheat  flakes  and  cream. 

GRAPE  SAUCE 
I  pound  Concord  grapes  i  cup  water 

yi  cup  sugar 

Pick  the  grapes  from  the  stems.  Add  the  sugar  and  the 
water,  and  cook  gently  until  tender. 

QUINCE  SAUCE 

1  quart    peeled    and    quartered     2  quarts  peeled  and  quartered  ap- 

quinces  pies 

2  cups  sugar  Water  to  cover 

Cook  until  tender. 


28o        MEATLESS  COOKERY 

MELON  COMPOTE 

2  pounds  melon  i  teaspoon  ground  ginger 

4  ounces  sugar  Ginger 

A  bay  leaf 
Take  off  the  hard  outside  of  the  melon,  and  remove  all  the 
center,  cut  into  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  plum.  Make  a 
syrup  of  the  sugar  flavored  with  a  little  of  the  melon  peel, 
bay  leaf  and  the  ginger,  in  about  half  a  pint  of  water;  let 
this  simmer  for  about  an  hour,  and  pour  it  over  the  pieces 
of  melon, 

BAKED  PEARS 

6  medium-sized  pears  J^  cup  brown  sugar 

Butter 

Select  firm  and  ripe  pears,  without  blemish.  Cut  in  halves 
lengthwise.  Remove  the  core,  and  sprinkle  with  brown 
sugar,  using  a  tablespoon  for  each  pear.  Dot  each  half  with 
two  or  three  small  bits  of  butter.  Bake  until  tender  and 
nicely  browned  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

BLACKBERRY  JELLY 

Blackberries  Yz  pound  sugar  to  every  pint  of  juice 

Put  as  many  blackberries  as  desired  into  a  jar,  and  sprinkle 
a  little  sugar  over;  then  put  in  the  oven  for  three  hours  to 
draw  out  the  juice.  When  sufficiently  tender,  strain  through 
coarse  muslin  or  cloth,  squeezing  out  as  much  juice  as  pos- 
sible. To  each  pint  of  juice  allow  half  a  pound  of  lump 
sugar,  and  boil  in  a  preserving  pan  until  it  is  set. 

STRAWBERRY  OR  GOOSEBERRY  FOOL 

I  pound  of  either  fruit  i  gill  of  water  or  milk 

J4  pound  sugar        .  i  gill  of  cream 

Cook  the  fruit  in  the  water' or  milk  with  the  sugar  for 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  tender  and  well  cooked;  then  rub 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  281 

through  a  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon.     When  the  fruit  is 
cold  add  the  cream,  mi^  well,  and  serve  cold. 

STRAWBERRY  PUDDING 

2  ounces  of  flour  i  ounce  sugar 

4  ounces  butter  2  tablespoons  strawberry  jam 

J4.  teaspoon  carbonate  soda 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream;  add  it  to  the  sugar.     Sprinkle 
the  flour  in  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time.     Stir  in  the  jam; 
add  the  soda  last.     Steam  in  a  well-buttered  mold  or  basin 
for  four  hours. 

QUEEN'S  TARTLETS 

Puff  paste  Sugar 

Fresh  strawberries  or  raspberries     Whipped  cream 

Make  the  paste  according  to  the  recipe  for  puff  paste. 
When  the  tartlet  cases  are  baked  and  just  cool,  fill  them  with 
either  fresh  strawberries  or  raspberries,  slightly  broken  up 
and  covered  with  sugar.  Leave  room  for  the  whipped 
cream,  which  must  be  put  on  top. 

GOOSEBERRY  TART 

I  pound  green  gooseberries  2  tablespoons  water 

6  ounces  sugar  Paste 

Pick  the  gooseberries,  and  put  them  in  a  tart  dish;  cover 
them  with  sugar,  and  put  in  the  water.  Cover  with  paste, 
and  bake  in  hot  oven.  When  the  paste  is  baked,  it  is  better 
to  place  the  tart  on  the  top  of  the  stove  to  simmer  until  the 
gooseberries  are  quite  tender.  If  the  crust  is  carefully 
lifted  with  a  knife,  a  skewer  may  be  inserted  to  see  whether 
the  gooseberries  are  sufficiently  cooked,  as  the  tart  will  be 
spoiled  unless  they  are  quite  soft. 

GREEN  GAGES  STEWED 

I  pounid  of  green  gages  6  ounces  sugar 

%  pint  water 


282  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Put  the  green  gages  In  a  stewpan,  and  pour  over  them  suf- 
ficient water  to  cover  them,  and  let  them  boil  up  quickly,  and 
continue  boiling  for  a  minute.  Now  turn  them  carefully  in  a 
colander,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  cool  enough  to  touch, 
remove  the  skins;  they  will  come  off  quite  easily.  Make  a 
syrup  with  the  sugar  and  water,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  after  the 
sugar  is  melted.  As  each  green  gage  has  the  skin  removed 
drop  it  into  the  syrup.  Bring  them  to  boiling  point,  but  do 
not  let  them  boil;  they  must  simmer  very  gently  for  an  hour. 
If  they  are  carefully  done  they  will  be  unbroken  when  they 
are  cooked.  All  plums  are  much  better  by  having  the  skins 
removed,  as  most  of  the  acid  which  disagrees  with  many 
people  is  in  the  skins. 

DAMSON  CHEESE 

Damsons  Sugar 

Thoroughly  clean  as  many  damsons  as  desired,  break  the 
skins  with  a  fork,  put  into  jars  to  stew  in  the  oven  till  ten- 
der, sprinkling  with  sugar.  When  quite  soft  allow  them 
to  cool;  then  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  to  every  pound  of 
fruit  add  nine  ounces  of  sugar.  Put  them  in  the  preserving 
pan  —  rinsed  out  with  cold  water  first  —  and  boil  until  it 
Is  set.  A  few  of  the  kernels  blanched  and  sprinkled  in  when 
boiling  is  an  improvement. 

DATE  PUDDING 

8  ounces  of  stoned  dates  8  ounces  bread  or  rusk  crumbs 

I  gill  of  milk  2  ounces  butter 

I  ounce  sugar 

Clean,  and  stone  the  dates,  and  cut  them  into  four;  make 
the  milk  hot ;  put  the  butter  In  the  milk,  and  pour  it  over  the 
bread  crumbs;  let  it  stand  for  five  minutes;  then  add  the 
dates,  mix  well,  and  steam  for  three  and  a  half  hours. 
Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  283 

COCOANUT  DATES 

1  dozen  stoned  dates  2  tablespoons  shredded  cocoanut 

3  English  walnuts  2  tablespoons  icing 

Insert  one-half  of  a  walnut  meat  In  the  date.  Dip  in  thin 
icing  and  roll  in  shredded  cocoanut. 

DATE  MARMALADE 

2  cups  dates  J^  teaspoon  grated  orange  rind 
Yz  teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind        2  teaspoons  butter 

J4  teaspoon  cinnamon 
Immerse  the  dates  in  cold  water.     Remove  the  stones, 
and  wash  in  hot  water.     Put  seeded  dates  to  cook  in  an  equal 
quantity  of  boiling  water,  together  with  the  grated  lemon 
rind,  and  cook  until  tender  and  quite  dry^ 

CURRANT  PUDDING 

6  slices  stale  bread  i  pound  red  currants 

4  ounces  raspberries  4  ounces  sugar 

I  gill  of  cream 
Cook  the  fruit  and  sugar  together  for  ten  minutes;  then 
dip  the  slices  of  bread  into  the  juiCe,  and  line  a  plain  pudding 
basin  with  It,  each  piece  overlapping.  Then  fill  the  basin 
with  the  fruit,  put  a  piece  of  bread  on  top,  cut  the  bread 
round  the  edge  to  make  it  even  with  the  basin;  put  a  plate 
over  and  a  heavy  weight  on  top,  and  leave  it  until  it  sets, 
which  will  be  in  about  four  hours.  Turn  out,  and  put  the 
whipped  cream  on  top.  This  can  be  made  with  various  kinds 
of  fruit  In  season. 

CASSEROLE  OF  ORANGES 

6  oranges  J4  ounce  vegetable  gelatine 

8  ounces  sugar 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  cold  water;  put  it  In  a 
brass  stewpan  with  the  sugar,  and  let  It  boil  for  five  minutes, 
taking  care  It  does  not  burn.     Have  the  oranges  ready, 


284  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

peeled,  and  separated  into  quarters,  taking  out  all  seeds  and 
all  white  skin,  add  them  to  the  liquid,  and  boil  for  ten  min- 
utes. Take  out  the  oranges,  and  place  them  in  a  mold. 
Reduce  the  liquid  by  boiling  until  it  is  barely  enough  to  fill 
the  mold,  and  pour  over.     Serve  cold. 

ORANGE  MERINGUE 

4  ounces  rice  i  quart  milk 

2  ounces  sugar  Any  flavoring  desired 

Boil  the  rice  in  the  milk  for  four  hours  until  all  the  milk 
is  absorbed.  Pour  into  a  basin,  and  let  it  get  cold,  and  turn 
out  in  a  glass  dish.  Pour  over  a  compote  of  oranges,  and 
put  whipped  cream  on  top. 

ORANGE  PUDDING 

4  oranges  i  tablespoon  ground  rice 

2  tablespoons  sifted  sugar  i  pint  of  milk 

Peel,  and  cut  the  oranges  into  thin  slices,  and  remove  all 
the  pits  and  white  skin,  and  sift  over  the  sugar.  Warm  the 
milk.  Make  a  smooth  paste  of  the  ground  rice  with  a  little 
water,  and  add  to  the  milk;  stir  until  thick,  and  then  pour 
over  the  fruit.     Serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

ORANGE  COMPOTE 

6  oranges  i  pint  of  water 

8  ounces  of  sugar 
Peel,  and  cut  the  oranges  into  rounds.     Save  all  the  juice, 
and  put  it,  with  some  shreds  of  peel  —  no  white,  into  the 
water  with  the  sugar.     Boil  this  for  one  hour  to  make  a 
syrup,  and  pour  over  the  rounds  of  oranges,  and  cool. 

ORANGE  BREAD  DESSERT 

Cut  the  cruets  from  a  three-quarter  inch  slice  of  fruit  or 
graham  bread.  Spread  with  butter,  and  over  each  put  small 
cubes  of  orange,  amounting  to  about  one-half  an  orange. 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  285 

On  top  of  this  put  a  spoon  of  whipped  cream.  This  simple 
dessert  may  be  varied  by  using  different  fruits,  such  as  pine- 
apple, very  ripe  bananas,  soaked  or  steamed  prunes  or  other 
sauces.  The  addition  of  a  spoon  of  whipped  cream  makes 
a  dainty  dessert  of  what  would  otherwise  be  a  plain  sand- 
wich. 

ORANGE  FLUFF 

J4  cup  sugar  J4  cup  orange  juice 

5  tablespoons  cornstarch  i  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

I  pint  boiling  water 

Mix  the  cornstarch  and  sugar.  Stir  into  the  boiling  water. 
Stir  constantly,  and  cook  directly  over  the  fire  until  it 
thickens.  Put  in  a  double  boiler,  and  cook  from  one  to  two 
hours.  Cornstarch  cooked  from  one  to  two  hours  loses  the 
raw  taste  which  is  objectionable  tp  many  people.  Add  the 
fruit  juices.  Stir  until  thoroughly  mixed;  then  pour  into 
molds  wet  with  cold  water.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  as 
follows :  — 

J4  cup  butter  ^  cup  water 

^  cup  sugar  i  tablespoon  cornstarch 

J4  cup  orange  juice  i  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Moisten  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir 
into  one-half  cup  of  the  boiling  water.  Then  set  in  a  double 
boiler,  and  cook  for  one  or  two  hours.  Cream  the  butter, 
and  add  the  sugar  gradually.  Add  the  remaining  one-quar- 
ter cup  of  boiling  water.  Turn  all  slowly  into  the  cooked 
cornstarch,  and  cook  until  it  thickens  slightly.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  and  add  the  orange  and  the  lemon  juice. 
Serve  cold. 

ORANGE  FRITTERS 

I  pint  of  milk  2  tablespoons  sugar 

4  ounces  flour  2  sweet  oranges 

Few  drops  vanilla  essence 

Mix  the  flour  with  a  little  of  the  cold  milk,  put  the  re- 


286  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

mainder  of  the  milk  into  a  double  saucepan,  and  when  nearly 
boiling,  add  the  flour  and  the  milk;  when  thickened  strain 
well,  and  put  back  into  the  saucepan  to  obtain  the  right  con- 
sistency; add  the  sugar  and  essence  of  vanilla. 

Peel  the  oranges,  divide  into  sections,  remove  the  white 
skiQ,  and  pits,  and  cook  in  half  a  pint  of  water  and  four 
ounces  of  sugar  for  about  ten  minutes;  then  take  up,  and 
drain  on  a  sieve.  Drop  the  orange  sections  into  the  above 
batter,  mixing  the  whole  carefully.  Fry  the  fritters  in  hot 
butter  or  oil,  taking  each  orange  section  up  with  a  spoon, 
with  ample  batter  to  well  cover  it,  and  so  dropping  it  to 
the  fat.  Do  not  fry  too  many  at  a  time.  When  of  a  golden 
color  take  them  up,  and  drain  well  on  a  paper  or  a  cloth. 
Dredge  with  icing  sugar,  and  serve  plain  or  with  an  orange 
flavored  syrup.  These  are  also  used  to  garnish  a  rice  or 
vermicelli  mold. 

MARMALADE 

12  Seville  oranges  lO  pounds  of  sugar 

6  sweet  oranges  Rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons 

Slice  the  oranges  v^ry  thin,  removing  all  seeds.  Put  the 
seeds  in  a  small  basin,  and  pour  over  them  a  pint  of  boiling 
water,  and  allow  them  to  stand  until  next  day.  Put  the  sliced 
oranges  Into  a  stone  pan  with  six  quarts  of  cold  water,  and 
let  them  stand  for  twenty-four  hours.  Put  on  to  boil  with 
the  strained  liquid  from  the  seeds,  and  boil  for  two  hours ; 
then  add  the  sugar,  and  boil  another  hour  or  until  set.  This 
makes  about  fifteen  pounds  of  marmalade. 

MARMALADE  PUDDING  NO.  i 

J4  pound  marmalade  2  ounces  butter 

3  ounces  bread-raspings  J4  pi^t  milk 

Heat  the  milk  and  melt  the  butter  In  it.  Pour  the  mixture 
over  the  bread-raspings,  and  mix  in  the  marmalade.     But- 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  287 

ter  a  mold,  put  in  the  mixture,  and  steam  for  three  hours. 
Serve  with  sweet  white  sauce  or  a  wine  sauce. 

MARMALADE  PUDDING  NO.  a 

3  ounces  white  bread  crumbs  3  tablespoons  marmalade 

I  ounce  butter 
Butter  a  pie  dish,  and  put  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  at  the 
bottom,  then  a  layer  of  marmalade,  then  another  layer  of 
bread  crumbs,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full,  leaving  bread 
crumbs  on  the  top.  Bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  for  half  an 
hour. 

MARMALADE  TARTLETS 
Marmalade  Paste 

Make  the  recipe  according  to  recipe  for  paste  for  tarts. 
Fill  the  tartlets  with  marmalade  immediately  they  leave  the 
oven. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE 

I  quart  cranberries  i  cup  sugar 

ij^  to  2  cups  water 
Pick  over  the  cranberries  very  carefully,  wash,  and  cook 
in  boiling  water.  Add  the  sugar,  and  cook  slowly  until  the 
berries  are  soft  and  tender.  The  intense  acidity  of  the  ber- 
ries may  be  partly  obviated  by  first  parboiling  them  just  for 
five  minutes.  Then  remove  from  fire,  force  through  a 
strainer,  and  cool. 

OLD-FASHIONED  CRANBERRY  DUMPLINGS 

1  quart  of  cranberries  2  cups  flour 

lYz  cups  water  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  sugar  i  tablespoon  sugar 
I  teaspoon  salt                                  ^  cup  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Prepare  a  cranberry  sauce  of  the  first  three  ingredients. 
Make  up  a  biscuit  dough  of  the  remaining  materials,  shape 


288  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

it  into  rounds,  and  steam  them  for  twelve  minutes.  Serve 
with  the  cranberry  sauce,  accompanied  by  a  hard  sauce  made 
of  brown  sugar  and  butter. 

STEAMED  CRANBERRY  PUDDING 

I  cup  milk  3  tablespcMDns  melted  butter 

I  teaspoon  salt  J4  cup  sugar 

About    3    cups    ground    entire  J4  teaspoon  cinnamon 

wheat  crumbs  (bread)  J4  teaspoon  cloves 

I  cup  cranberries  A  dash  of  pepper 

Mix  the.  milk  with  the  salt  and  sugar,  butter  and  spices, 
and  stir  in  the  cranberries  with  enough  crumbs  to  make  a 
drop  batter.  Steam  for  one  hour.  Serve  hot  with  cran- 
berry pudding  sauce. 

CRANBERRY  CONSERVE 

I  quart  cranberries  Yz  pound  walnut  meats 

ij^   cups  water  i  orange 

y^  pound  seeded  raisins  lYz  pounds  sugar 

Pick  over,  and  wash  the  cranberries,  put  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  one-half  the  water,  and  boil  until  the  skins  break. 
Put  through  a  strainer,  and  add  the  remaining  water,  raisins, 
nut  meats  chopped,  orange  finely  cut,  and  sugar.  Boil  for 
twenty-five  minutes  and  pour  in  a  wet  mold. 

APPLE  CHARLOTTE 

Take  one  quart  of  flour  which  is  sifted  with  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  rub  a  little  but- 
ter in  it.  Mix  with  milk  but  do  not  make  the  dough  stiff. 
Mix  with  this  dough  two  quarts  of  sliced  apples;  then  line 
a  baking  pan  with  hot  butter ;  pour  in  the  mixture  about  half 
an  inch  thick,  and  put  flakes  of  butter  on  top.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Turn  out  on  a  flat  dish  and  serve  with  a  hard 
or  wine  sauce. 


FRUIT  DESSERTS  289 

APPLE  ROLL 

Sift  one  pint  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  make  a  hole  in  the  cen- 
ter of  the  flour,  and  pour  in  gradually  one  cup  of  lukewarm 
water,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  tablespoon  of  butter.  Stir  this 
slowly,  making  a  smooth  dough  of  it  and  adding  a  little 
more  flour  if  necessary.  Cover  the  dough,  and  set  it  in  a 
warm  place  until  you  have  pared  half  a  peck  of  apples,  and 
cut  them  very  fine  in  this  way:  Pare,  quarter,  and  take 
out  the  cores  and  seeds,  and  cut  them  very  fine.  Now  cover 
the  table  with  a  clean  cloth,  sift  flour  all  over  it,  and  roll  out 
the  dough  as  thin  as  possible.  Put  your  hands  under  the 
rolled  dough,  and  stretch  it  gently  so  as  to  not  tear  it,  walk- 
ing all  around  the  table  as  you  do  this  to  get  it  even  and  as 
thin  as  tissue  paper.  Pour  a  few  tablespoons  of  melted 
butter  over  the  dough;  then  the  apples,  brown  sugar,  cinna- 
mon and  raisins.  Now  take  hold  of  the  tablecloth  with 
both  hands  about  a  yard  apart,  and  begin  to  roll  the  dough, 
it  will  almost  roll  itself  if  the  cloth  is  lifted  high  enough. 
Butter  a  large  cake  pan,  hold  it  against  the  edge  of  the  table, 
and  roll  the  dough  into  it.  Bake  an  even  brown,  basting 
often  with  butter. 

CHERRY  ROLL 

Make  a  dough  of  one  pint  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a 
little  lukewarm  water,  being  careful  not  to  make  it  too  stiff- 
Slap  the  dough  back  and  forth  on  the  board,  holding  it  in 
the  right  hand,  and  hitting  it  on  the  board.  Do  this  for 
fifteen  minutes ;  then  put  the  dough  in  a  warm  covered  bowl, 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  for  half  an  hour.  Stem  and  pit  two 
quarts  of  sour  cherries.  Grate  into  them  some  stale  bread 
and  the  peel  of  half  a  lemon.  Add  half  a  pound  or  more  of 
sugar,  some  ground  cinnamon  and  about  four  ounces  of 
pounded  sweet  almonds,  and  mix  all  thoroughly.  Proceed 
now  as  with  the  apple  roll  in  rolling  out  the  dough,  sprinkling 


290  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

over  the  thin  dough  the  cherry  mixture.  Then  roll  by  hold- 
ing up  one  end  of  the  cloth.  Fold  the  dough  into  a  double 
knot,  put  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  a  light  brown.  Baste 
often  while  baking.  Secure  the  edges  of  the  dough  so  the 
juice  will  not  escape,  and  butter  the  top  before  putting  in 
the  oven. 

CHERRY  ROLY-POLY 

Make  a  biscuit  dough,  and  roll  it  out  until  it  is  about 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Pit,  and  stew  a  pint  of  cherries 
and  sweeten  to  taste. 

Spread  over  the  dough  thickly,  and  roll  it,  taking  care  to 
keep  the  cherries  from  falling  out.  Wrap  a  cloth  around 
it,  and  sew  it  up  loosely  with  coarse  thread,  allowing  plenty 
of  room  for  the  dough  to  expand. 

Set  it  in  a  steamer,  and  steam  for  an  hour  and  a  half. 
Serve  with  sugar  a:nd  cream. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE 

4  cups  flour  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt  i  quart  strawberries 

2  ounces  butter  Milk 

Hull  the  berries,  sweeten  and  mash  them  slightly  with  a 
spoon,  and  stand  aside.  Sift  the  salt  and  baking  powder 
with  the  flour  and  cut  in  the  butter;  add  sufficient  milk  to 
make  a  dough,  stirring  with  a  fork.  Mix  quickly,  and  put 
it  at  once  in  a  greased  baking  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
thirty  minutes.  When  done,  cut. the  crust  with  a  knife  and 
pull  open  the  cake.  Spread  it  thickly  with  butter,  and  put 
in  the  berries,  reserving  some  for  the  top.  Put  on  the  crust, 
cover  the  top  with  the  remaining  berries,  dust  with  powdered 
sugar,  and  servb  with  whipped  cream. 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 

"  Glittering  mounds  of  colored  ice, 
Sweetened  with  sugar,  seasoned  with  spice, 
Creams  and  cordials  and  candied  fruits." 

iVANILLA  ICE-CREAM 

1  quart  cream  i  tablespoon  vanilla  extract 

Y2  pound  of  sugar 

Put  the  cream  and  sugar  into  a  double  boiler,  and  scald 
them;  when  they  are  cold,  add  the  flavoring,  and  freeze. 

BISQUE  ICE-CREAM 

Roll  or  pound  six  stale  macaroons,  and  add  to  the  vanilla 
mixture,  letting  it  stand  a  half  hour  before  freezing. 

PISTACHIO  ICE-CREAM 

Blanch  two  ounces  of  pistachio  nuts  by  pouring  over  them 
boiling  water  so  the  skins  can  be  removed.  Pound  the  nuts 
in  a  mortar  to  a  smooth  paste,  using  a  few  drops  of  cream 
to  prevent  oiling.  Add  the  nuts  to  one  quart  of  vanilla 
cream  mixture.  Color  it  green,  add  a  little  orange-flower 
water,  and  freeze, 

CHOCOLATE  ICE-CREAM 

Melt  4  ounces  of  chocolate  in  a  small  saucepan  placed 
over  hot  water,  and  add  to  the  mixture  for  vanilla  ice-cream 
while  it  is  hot.  Pour  in  slowly  and  stir  well.  Freeze  and 
pack  until  used. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM 

2  cups  water  1  pint  can  grated  pineapple 
I  cup  sugar                                       2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2  cups  whip  from  cream 
291 


292  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water,  add  the  grated 
pineapple  and  lemon  juice.  Freeze  slightly,  then  add  the 
whip  from  cream  and  continue  freezing. 

YOGURT  ICE-CREAM 

3  cups  buttermilk  i  cup  water 

5  cups  cream  J4  cup  very  thin  orange  rind 

J4  teaspoon  salt  i  cup  orange  juice 

I  cup  pineapple  juice  J4  cup  lemon  juice 

1%  cups  sugar  i  cup  grated  pineapple 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar,  water  and  orange  rind.  Mix 
the  fruit  juices,  grated  pineapple,  salt  and  buttermilk.  Pour 
the  syrup  through  a  strainer  into  this  mixture.  Mix  well, 
freeze  slightly,  add  the  cream,  and  finish  freezing. 

STRAWBERRY  GEL^E 

4  cups    crushed    strawberries    or     i  quart  water 

strawberry  juice  ^  box  vegetable  gelatine 

2^  to  3  cups  sugar  i  cup  lemon  juice 

Crush  the  strawberries,  and  add  the  sugar,  lemon  juice 
and  one  pint  of  water.  Soak  the  vegetable  gelatine  in  warm 
water  for  twenty  minutes  or  more.  Drain.  Cook  in  one 
pint  of  boiling  water  five  to  ten  minutes  or  until  perfectly 
clear.  Strain  and  add  to  the  crushed  berries.  Turn  into 
a  freezer,  and  stir  about  five  minutes;  then  freeze. 

If  preferred,  the  vegetable  gelatine  may  be  omitted.  In 
that  case,  add  a  quart  of  water  to  the  crushed  berries  instead 
of  one  pint.  Other  fruits  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  straw- 
berries. 

LEMON  GEL^E 

lYs  cups  lemon  juice  7  cups  water 

2^  cups  sugar  i  box  vegetable  gelatine 

Prepare  the  vegetable  gelatine  according  to  general  direc- 
tions, using  three  cups  boiling  water  in  which  to  cook  it. 
While  this  is  cooking,  put  together  the  lemon  juice,  sugar 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  293 

and  one  quart  of  water.  Strain  the  vegetable  gelatine 
through  cheesecloth  or  a  sieve,  add  to  the  mixture  and  freeze. 
The  above  amount  will  make  one  gallon. 

ORANGE  WATER  ICE 

1  quart  water  2  cups  orange  juice 

2  cups  sugar  J4  cup  lemon  juice 

Chipped  rind  of  2  oranges 

Chip  off  the  pieces  of  orange  rind  with  a  knife,  being 
careful  not  to  get  any  of  the  white  portion.  Prepare  a 
syrup  from  the  water  and  sugar,  and  let  the  orange  rind  boil 
in  it.  Strain  through  a  cheesecloth,  and  add  to  the  fruit 
juices.     Chill  and  freeze. 

FROZEN  PEACHES 

2  quarts  fresh  ripe  peaches  Juice  of  ij4.  lemons 

2  cups  sugar  i  quart  water 

Scald  the  peaches.  Remove  the  skins  and  the  pits,  and 
rub  the  fruit  through  a  colander..  Boil  the  sugar  and  water 
together  for  five  minutes,  and  cool.  To  the  syrup  add  the 
peach  pulp  and  the  lemon  juice.  Turn  into  a  freezer.  Stir 
until  firm. 

PEACH  SHERBET 

1  quart  peach  puree  J4  cup  lemon  juice 

i^  cups  orange  juice  i  cup  water 

ij^  cups  sugar 

Select  nice  ripe  peaches,  pare,  and  put  a  sufficient  number 
through  a  colander  to  make  a  quart.  To  this  add  the  orange 
juice,  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  water.     Turn  into  the  freezer. 

MILK  SHERBET 

I  quart  milk  2  cups  sugar 

J4^  cup  lemon  juice 

To  the  milk  add  the  sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Have 
ready  the  freezer  packed  with  salt  and  ice.     Just  before 


« 


294  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

turning  Into  the  freezer,  add  the  lemon  juice;  stir.  If  the 
milk  curdles,  it  will  come  smooth  in  the  freezing.  Do  not 
let  this  mixture  stand  long  in  the  freezer  after  freezing. 
Unless  certified  milk  is  used,  the  milk  should  be  scalded  and 
then  used  cooled. 

PINEAPPLE  FRAPPE 

2  cups  water  2  cups  ice-water 

I  cup  sugar  i  can  grated  pineapple 

Juice  of  3  lemons  i  pineapple  shredded 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  the  water  and  sugar  together 
fifteen  minutes.  Add  the  pineapple  and  lemon  juice.  Cool, 
strain,  add  ice  water,  and  freeze  to  a  mush,  using  equal  parts 
salt  and  ice.  If  fresh  fruit  is  used,  more  sugar  will  be 
required. 

GRAPE  SHERBET 

I  quart  grape  juice  yi  cup  sugar 

^  cup  lemon  juice  2  cups  cream 

To  the  grape  juice  add  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Turn  into  a  freezer  and  chill. 
When  beginning  to  freeze,  add  the  cream  and  continue  to 
freeze. 

CRANBERRY  SHERBET 

4  cups  sugar  3  pints  water 

Juice  of  I  lemon  2  quarts  cranberries 

After  looking  over  the  berries  carefully,  cover  them  with 
hot  water,  and  cook  until  tender ;  then  strain  through  a  col- 
ander or  sieve  sufficiently  fine  to  exclude  the  seeds.  Add 
the  sugar,  and  cook  until  dissolved,  then  add  the  lemon  juice, 
and  turn  into  a  freezer.  This  sherbet  should  not  be  allowed 
to  stand  in  the  freezer  any  length  of  time. 


CAKES 

Would'st  thou  both  eat  thy  cake  and  have  it? 

Herbert. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  cloves 

J^  cup  butter  i  teaspoon  nutmeg 

I  cup  raisins  2  cups  flour 

I  cup  apple  sauce  J4  teaspoon  soda 

ij/^  teaspoons  cinnamon  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Sift  the  dry  in- 
gredients together,  and  add  alternately  with  the  apple  sauce 
to  the  dry  ingredients.  Stir  in  the  raisins  dredged  with  a 
little  of  the  flour  saved  out  for  this  purpose.  Bake  in  gem 
pans  in  a  moderate  oven  about  fifteen  minutes. 

LIGHT  FRUIT  CAKE 

I  cup  sugar  i  cup  raisins 

5^  cup  butter  i  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2j4  cups  flour  J4  teaspoon  soda 

I  cup  milk  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Sift  the  flour, 
soda,  cinnamon  and  cloves  together,  reserving  a  little  of 
the  flour  with  which  to  dredge  the  raisins.  Add  the  milk 
and  dry  ingredients  alternately  to  the  butter  and  sugar. 
Stir  in  the  raisins,  and  bake  in  a  muffin  pan  or  as  a  loaf  in 
an  oblong  pan. 

ALMOND  CAKE 

4  ounces  of  ground  almonds  6  ounces  of  flour 

4  ounces  of  butter  i  ounce  of  citron 

4  ounces  of  Albene  or  oil  i  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

3  ounces  of  sugar 
295 


296  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Beat  the  butter  and  Albene  to  a  cream,  and  add  the  sugar 
and  flour,  a  little  at  a  time,  so  that  they  may  be  well  mixed; 
then  add  the  almonds  and  thinly  sliced  citron  and  mix  them 
well  together.  Put  into  a  well-buttered  cake-tin,  and  bake 
for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

ALMOND  AND  HONEY  CAKES 

I  pound  of  flour  i  teaspoon  of  powdered  cloves 

1  pound  of  honey  i^,  teaspoons  carbonate  of  soda 
6  ounces  of  ground  almonds             3  ounces  of  butter 

Put  the  honey  and  butter  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil.  Mix 
the  flour,  cloves  and  almonds  together,  and  pour  the  boiling 
mixture  on  them.  Mix  the  carbonate  of  soda  in  a  little 
cold  milk,  and  add  last.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  let 
stand  for  five  or  six  hours ;  then  roll  out  into  one  inch  thick 
rounds  or  squares,  put  a  few  almonds  on  the  top,  and  bake 
till  a  golden  brown  —  about  fifteen  minutes. 

YORKSHIRE  CAKE 

2  ounces  of  flour  2  ounces  of  sugar 

2  ounces  of  butter  i  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  ounces  of  ground  rice  Very  little  milk 

Mix  the  butter  and  flour  well  together  with  the  rice  and 
sugar,  add  the  baking  powder,  and  just  sufficient  milk  to 
moisten ;  mix  well  together.  Spread  on  two  buttered  plates, 
and  bake  ten  minutes.  When  done,  spread  jam  over  one, 
place  the  other  on  the  top,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  A  layer 
cake  is  made  in  this  way,  with  about  three  layers  of  cake, 
and  jam  or  jelly  in  between,  and  icing  sprinkled  with  halved 
walnuts  on  the  top. 

ROXBURY  CAKES 

3j^.  cups  pastry  flour  Yz  cup  molasses 

y^  cup  sugar  Nutmeg 

y^  cup  butter  ^,  cup  English  walnut  meats 


CAKES  297 

^  cup  raisins  i  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Yz  cup  milk  Yz  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

i^  cups  flour  i^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  teaspoon  soda 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the  molas- 
ses and  milk.  Mix,  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  and  add  to 
the  first  mixture.  Add  lastly  the  raisins  chopped  fine,  and 
bake  in  gem  pans.  This  should  make  about  twenty  small 
cakes.  Ice  with  chocolate  icing,  putting  just  a  little  of  the 
icing  in  the  center  of  each  cake,  and  an  English  walnut  meat 
pressed  down  upon  that. 

CHEESE  CAKES 

I  quart  of  milk  A  speck  of  nutmeg 

Rennet  i^  ounces  of  butter 

I  ounce  of  sugar  I  ounce  of  dried  currants  or  small 

raisins 

Warm  the  milk,  and  add  the  rennet,  using  the  amount 
prescribed  on  the  package.  Let  the  milk  stand  until  the  curd 
forms ;  then  break  up  the  curd,  and  strain  off  the  whey.  Add 
the  other  ingredients  to  the  curd;  line  patty  tins  with  pastry; 
fill  them  with  the  mixture,  and  bake. 

CHEESE  GINGERBREAD  NO.  1 

I  cup  of  molasses  2  cups  of  flour 

4  ounces  of  cheese  2  teaspoons  of  ginger 

I  teaspoon  of  soda  J^  teaspoon  of  salt 

Y2.  cup  of  water 

Heat  the  molasses  and  cheese  in  a  double  boiler  until  the 
cheese  is  melted.  Add  the  soda,  and  stir  vigorously.  Mix, 
and  sift  dry  ingredients,  and  add  them  to  the  molasses  and 
cheese  alternately  with  the  water.  Bake  fifteen  minutes  in 
small  buttered  tins.  It  may  be  baked  in  a  large  pan  but 
must  be  broken  when  cooked,  not  cut. 


298  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

CHEESE  GINGERBREAD  NO.  2 

Yi  cup  of  molasses  i  teaspoon  of  soda 

y^  cup  of  sugar  2  teaspoons  ginger 

4  ounces  of  cheese  ^  teaspoon  of  salt 

2  cups  of  flour  Yi,  cup  of  water 

Rub  the  cheese  and  sugar  together.  Add  the  molasses. 
Mix,  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  and  add  them  to  the  cheese 
mixture  alternately  with  the  water. 

ALMOND  BISCUITS 

2  ounces  of  almonds  J^  ounce  sugar 

2  ounces  flour  I  tablespoon  of  milk 

Blanch  the  almonds,  and  put  them  through  a  nut  mill 
twice ;  mix  well  with  the  sugar  and  flour.  Add  the  milk,  and 
mix  all  thoroughly  together.  Roll  out  fairly  thin,  cut  into 
small  rounds  and  bakje  in  a  quick  oven  for  ten  to  fifteen  min- 
utes. 


FROSTINGS 

One  sip  of  this 

Will  bathe  the  drooping  ^irits  in  delight. 

Beyond  the  bliss  of  dreams. 

Milton. 

WATER  FROSTING 

I  cup  powdered  sugar  I  tablespoon    boiling    water    or 

1  tablespoon    lemon    or    orange  milk 

juice 

Stir  the  boiling  water  into  the  sugar,  and  add  the  lemon 
juice.  If  too  stiff,  add  a  little  more  boUing  water.  Melted 
chocolate  and  vanilla  may  be  used  instead  of  the  lemon  or 
orange. 

BOILED  FROSTING 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  flavoring 

I  cup  water 

Heat  sugar  and  water  to  boiling,  stirring  occasionally  until 
the  sugar  dissolves.  Then  boil  without  stirring  until  the 
syrup  threads  when  dropped  from  the  end  of  a  spoon  or 
fork  or  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold 
water.  Flavor,  and  pour  the  frosting  over  the  cake,  using 
a  silver  knife  to  guide  it  over  the  sides  of  the  cake.  If  the 
frosting  becomes  granular,  add  a  few  drops  of  boiling  water. 

ROYAL  FROSTING 

I  cup  sugar  i  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

y^  teaspoon  cream  tartar  %  cup  cold  water 

Boil  the  sugar,  cream  of  tartar  and  cold  water  without 
stirring  until  it  threads  from  spoon.  Add  the  lemon  juice. 
Beat  imtil  thick,  and  spread  quickly. 

399 


300  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

PRUIT  FILLING 

^  cup  water  1^  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  flour  ^  cup  seeded  raisins 

Juice  I  lemon  i  dozen  English  walnuts 

Braid  the  flour  with  a  little  of  the  cold  water.  Heat  the 
remainder,  and  when  boiling,  thicken  with  the  flour.  Then 
add  the  lemon  juice,  and  chopped  nuts  and  seeded  raisins. 
When  cold,  spread  between  layers  of  cake. 

ORANGE  FILLING 

y^  cup  sugar  54  cup  cream 

2j^.  tablespoons  flour  J^  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Grated  rind  of  J4  orange  I  tablespoon  butter 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  -  Cook  ten  minutes  in  a 
double  boiler,  stirring  constantly.     Cool  before  spreading. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING 

4  ounces  chocolate  2  cups  sugar 

I  cup  water 

To  the  cold  water,  add  the  sugar  and  boil  until  it  threads 
slightly.  Melt  the  chocolate  and  pour  the  syrup  into  it 
slowly,  stirring  constantly. 


EGGS 

You  cannot  make  omelettes  without  breaking  eggs. 

Spanish  Proverb. 

SOFT  BOILED  EGGS  NO.  i 

With  a  spoon  put  the  eggs  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water 
to  cover.  Remove  to  back  of  stove,  or  where  the  water 
will  keep  very  hot,  but  not  boil.  Let  the  eggs  remain  in  the 
water  for  five  minutes  always  covered.  Break  into  warm 
egg  cups  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  a  few  drops 
of  vinegjar. 

SOFT  BOILED  EGGS  NO.  a 

Or  put  the  eggs  in  a  saucepan  of  cold  water  to  cover  and 
remove  as  soon  as  the  water  boils. 

HARD  BOILED  EGGS 

Follow  the  directions  for  soft  boiled  eggs  No.  i,  letting 
the  eggs  remain  in  water  forty-five  minutes.  Chop  fine,  and 
add  one-half  teaspoon  of  butter  and  a  few  grains  of  salt  and 
paprika  to  each  egg. 

STEAMED  EGGS 

Butter  an  Individual  baking  dish  generously  and  put  in  the 
egg.  Season,  place  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water,  and 
cook  until  the  white  is  firm.  Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on 
the  top  and  serve  very  hot. 

BAKED  EGGS 

Spread  a  baking  dish  with  butter,  bread  crumbs  and 
chopped  parsley  and  break  the  eggs  into  it,  being  careful 

30X 


302  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

to  keep  the  yolks  whole.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
pour  over  a  little  cream  and  dot  with  butter.  Bake  in  the 
oven  until  the  whites  are  set. 

BAKED  EGGS  WITH  CHEESE 
Break  the  eggs  into  a  baking  dish.     Pour  gently  over 
them  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  half  a  cup  of  grated 
cheese,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  paprika. 

Put  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  the  egg  is  set,  and  serve  at 
once. 

GOLDEN-ROD  EGGS 

2  tablespoons  butter  Salt,  pepper 

I  tablespoon  flour  ij^  cups  of  milk 

Chopped  parsley  4  hard  boiled  eggs 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour,  parsley,  milk  and  sea- 
soning. Chop  the  eggs  and  add  them  to  the  sauce.  When 
well  blended  pour  over  buttered  toast  and  serve  hot. 

STUFFED  EGGS 

4  hard  boiled  eggs  1  teaspoon  mustard 

I  tablespoon  butter  Paprika 

1  tablespoon  olive  oil  Salt 

Chopped  parsley 

Remove  the  shell,  and  cut  the  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise. 
Carefully  remove  the  yolks  and  rub  them  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  the  butter,  oil,  mustard,  parsley  and  seasoning. 
Fill  the  whites  and  serve  with  a  white  sauce,  flavored  with 
capers. 

SPANISH  EGGS 

6  eggs  I  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  condensed  tomato        1  small  onion 

or  Yi  cup  stewed  tomato  2  dozen  ripe  olives 

I  teaspoon  celery  salt  i  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly ;  put  the  tomato  through  a  colander, 
and  add  to  the  beaten  eggs ;  add  the  lemon  juice,  salt,  celery 


EGGS  303 

salt,  and  the  grated  onion.  Cut  the  olives  from  the  stones, 
and  add  to  the  mixture.  Turn  into  a  double  boiler,  and  cook 
until  thickened,  stirring  constantly.  This  may  be  served 
on  toast  if  desired. 

ESCALLOPED  EGGS 

6  hard  cooked  eggs  ij4  cups  milk 

yi  cup  ripe  olives  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  2  tablespoons  flour 

I  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  the  eggs  by  putting  them  on  in  cold  water.  When 
the  boiling  point  is  reached,  cover,  and  let  simmer  for  about 
twenty  minutes.  Make  a  white  sauce  by  rubbing  together 
the  flour  and  butter  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Add  a  lit- 
tle of  the  warm  milk  slowly;  then  add  the  remainder.  Cook 
the  sauce  in  a  double  boiler  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Cut 
sufficient  ripe  olives  from  the  stones  to  make  one-third  cup. 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  place  in  the  bottom  one-fourth  of 
the  bread  crumbs;  then  over  the  crumbs  slice  thinly  three 
of  the  hard  cooked  eggs.  Add  half  of  the  chopped  olives 
and  half  of  the  white  sauce.  Then  spread  another  fourth 
of  the  bread  crumbs,  adding  the  remainder  of  the  egg,  the 
olives  and  the  white  sauce.  Finish  by  spreading  the  re- 
maining half  of  the  buttered  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  twenty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  or  until  nicely  browned. 


Any  of  the  White  of  Egg  Recipes  may  be  used 
by  substituting  the  whole  egg  for  the  white. 


WHITES  OF  EGGS 

Like  dew  on  the  mountain, 
Like  foam  on  the  river. 

Scott. 

GENOESE  WHITES  OF  EGGS 

Take  four  whites  of  eggs,  hard  boiled  and  chopped  fine. 
Mix  thoroughly  with  two  tablespoons  of  boiled  white  rice, 
each  grain  dry  and  separate.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
bit  of  butter,  and  some  finely  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Mix  thoroughly,  and  when  quite  hot,  serve  on  buttered 
toast. 

WHITES  OF  EGGS  EN  BATl^ 

Take  some  poached  whites,  not  too  hard,  which  have  been 
poached  in  a  poacher,  and  dredge  with  black  pepper.  Dip 
the  white  first  in  cream  or  lightly  butter  it.  Then  wrap  it 
up  in  very  thin  light  puff  paste,  and  bake. 

EGG  PATTIES 

Make  the  pastry  first,  and  line  some  patty  tins.  Mix  a 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  of  chopped  spring  onions,  one  of 
fried  bread  crumbs,  some  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  a  layer  of  this  mixture  in  the  bottom  of  each  patty  tin; 
then  break  white  of  egg  into  each.  Put  a  little  chili  vinegar 
and  parsley  on  top  of  each  white,  and  cook  gently  in  the  oven. 
A  slow  oven  is  the  best. 

SAVORY  OMELET 

4  whites  of  eggs  i  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

I  ounce  of  butter  i  small  onion 

Pepper  Salt 

304 


WHITES  OF  EGGS  305 

Beat  the  whites  to  rather  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  parsley  and 
onion  chopped  very  fine,  and  the  pepper  and  salt.  Melt 
butter  in  the  frying  pan,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  stir  till 
just  set.     Cook  until  a  golden  brown. 

CHEESE  OMELET  NO.  i 

4  whites  of  eggs  Pinch  of  cayenne  and  salt 

ij^'  ounces  grated  cheese 
Whip  the  whites  slightly,  add  the  cayenne  and  salt,  and 
stir  in  the  cheese  lightly.     Melt  one  ounce  of  butter  in  the 
pan  and  stir  in  the  omelet  until  set. 

CHEESE  OMELET  NO.  2 

Cheese  may  be  introduced  into  omelets  in  several  ways. 
An  ordinary  omelet  may  be  served  with  thin  cheese  sauce 
made  in  the  following  proportions : 

ij^.  tablespoons  flour 

J4  cup  grated  cheese 

I  cup  milk 

This  sauce  may  also  be  added  to  omelets  in  which  boiled 
rice,  or  some  other  nutritious  material  has  been  included. 

CHEESE  OMELET  NO.  3 

Grated  cheese  may  be  sprinkled  over  an  ordinary  omelet 
before  it  is  served. 

OMELET  WITH  TOMATOES 

Four  whites  beaten  to  a  froth,  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
pepper,  put  in  a  pan  with  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  stir  till 
set.  Have  some  sliced  tomatoes  cooked  in  butter.  When 
the  omelet  is  cooked,  lay  on  the  tomatoes  gently  or  it  will 
go  down;  fold  over  and  serve. 

OMELET  WITH  VEGETABLES 
Beat  four  whites,  then  have  a  small  quantity  of  very  finely 
chopped,  well-cooked  vegetables,  such  as  carrots,  turnips, 


3o6  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

onions,  celery,  etc. —  a  small  quantity  of  each.  Add  them  to 
the  whites  with  pepper  and  salt.  Melt  one  ounce  of  butter 
in  the  frying  pan,  pour  in  the  omelet,  and  stir  till  set,  and 
cook,  a  golden  brown. 

SWEET  OMELET 

Beat  four  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  a  dessertspoon  of 
sugar,  and  pour  into  a  pan,  with  one  ounce  of  butter  melted, 
and  cook  till  set;  then  spread  a  tablespoon  of  jam,  and  fold 
over,  and  serve. 


^) 


WHITES  OF  EGGS  A  L'lTALIENNE 

Boil  one-quarter  of  pound  of  spaghetti  in  water,  adding 
some  tomato  puree  or  conserve,  and  spread  it  on  a  dish. 
Poach  four  whites  of  eggs,  and  lay  them  on  the  spaghetti, 
and  sprinkle  finely  chopped  parsley  over  the  whites,  and 
decorate  with  frill  croutons. 

BUCK  RAREBIT 

4  ounces  cheese  Cayenne  and  salt 

4  whites  of  eggs  4  rounds  of  hot  buttered  toast 

Cut  up  the  cheese,  melt  with  the  seasoning,  poach  whites 
of  eggs,  and  pour  the  cheese  on  the  toast ;  place  the  poached 
whites  on  the  top  of  the  cheese,  and  serve  immediately. 

CREAMED  CHEESE  AND  EGGS 

3  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs  Speck  of  cayenne 

I  tablespoon  flour  J4  ^^^P  or  i  ounce  grated  cheese 

I  cup  milk  4  slices  toast 

Y2  teaspoon  salt 

Make  a  thin,  white  sauce  with  the  flour,  milk  and  season- 
ings. Add  the  cheese,  and  stir  until  melted.  Chop  the 
whites,  and  add  them  to  the  sauce.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the 
toast. 


WHITES  OF  EGGS  307 

BAKED  EGGS  WITH  CHEESE 

4  whites  of  eggs  J4  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  or  four  ounces  grated  cheese    A  few  grains  cayenne 
I  cup  fine,  stale  bread  crumbs 

Break  whites  of  eggs  into  buttered  baking  dish,  or  into 
ramequins,  and  cook  them  in  a  hot  oven  until  they  begin  to 
turn  white  around  the  edge.  Cover  with  the  mixture  of 
crumbs,  cheese,  and  seasonings.  Brown  in  a  very  hot  oven. 
In  preparing  this  dish,  it  is  essential  that  the  oven  be  very 
hot  or  the  egg  will  fee  too  much  cooked  by  the  time  the  cheese 
is  brown.  To  avoid  this,  cover  the  eggs  with  white  sauce  be- 
fore adding  the  crumbs. 

The  food  value  of  this  dish  is  very  close  to  that  of  a 
pound  of  beef  of  average  composition. 

For  those  who  are  particularly  fond  of  cheese  the  amount 
of  cheese  in  this  recipe  may  be  very  much  increased,  thus 
making  a  much  more  nourishing  dish.  Or  the  amount  may 
be  reduced  so  as  to  give  hardly  more  than  a  suggestion  of 
the  flavor  of  cheese. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  CHEESE 

Yi  pound  of  cheese  grated  or  cut     i  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley 

into  small  pieces  A  pinch  of  nutmeg 

8  whites  of  eggs  J^  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  the  whites  slightly,  mix  them  with  the  other  ingred- 
ients ;  cook  over  a  very  slow  fire,  stirring  constantly,  so  that 
the  cheese  may  be  melted  by  the  time  the  eggs  are  cooked. 
In  food  value  the  dish  is  equal  to  nearly  two  pounds  of 
average  beef. 

SWISS  EGGS 

4  whites  of  eggs  Salt  and  pepper 

yi  cup  of  cream  ^  cup  grated  cheese 

I  tablespoon  butter 

Heat  the  butter  and  cream  together,  break  in  whites  of 


3o8  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

eggs,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  nearly  done, 
add  the  cheese.  Serve  on  buttered  toast.  Strain  the  cream 
over  the  toast. 

CHEESE  SCALLOPS 

2  ounces  of  cheese  i  dessertspoon  milk  or  cream 

4  whites  of  eggs  4  rounds  hot  buttered  toast 

Cayenne  and  salt 

Line  four  patty  tins  with  thinly  sliced  cheese,  break  a 
white  in  the  center  of  each,  and  season  with  cayenne  and  salt ; 
add  the  cream  or  milk,  cover  with  grated  cheese,  and  bake 
from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  very  hot  on  the  buttered 
toast. 

CHEESE  FONDUE 

2  ounces  of  butter  4  whites  of  eggs 

3  ounces  of  cheese  Salt  and  pepper 

Whip  the  eggs  slightly,  stir  in  the  butter  in  small  pieces, 
and  add  the  cheese  and  seasoning ;  pour  into  a  greased  dish, 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  to  set,  and  serve  immediately. 

WHITES  OF  EGGS  IN  -RAMEQUIN  CASES 
Whites  of  eggs  Butter  Parsley- 

Butter  well  some  china  ramequin  cases,  and  sprinkle  as 
much  finely  chopped  parsley  in  them  as  will  stick  to  the  but- 
ter. Pour  a  white  of  an  egg  in  each  case,  and  poach  them 
until  set.     Can  be  served  either  hot  or  cold. 

BAKED  POTATOES  AND  WHITES  OF  EGGS 

Bake  two  large  potatoes.  When  cooked  take  out  some  of 
the  potato,  and  drop  two  whites  of  eggs  in  each,  with  a 
piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  then  put  back  in  the  oven 
till  set.  If  the  potatoes  are  small,  put  one  white  in  each 
potato.  After  the  potatoes  have  been  cut  in  half  and  hol- 
lowed out,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  paprika. 


WHITES  OF  EGGS  309 

TOMATO  EGGS 

Hard-boil  four  eggs,  cut  in  halves,  and  remove  yolks. 
Fill  with  the  following  mixture :  — 

Take  sufficient  grated  cheese,  raw  tomato,  butter  and 
bread  crumbs  to  make  a  rather  stiff  paste,  with  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.     Serve  cold. 

WHITES  OF  EGGS  IN  SOUBISE  SAUCE 

Poach  or  hard-boil  some  whites  of  eggs,  and  pour  over 
them  this  sauce,  previously  made :  — 

Work  together  one  ounce  of  butter  and  two  ounces  of 
flour  with  a  wooden  spoon;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  one-half 
chopped  onion,  one-half  carrot,  a  bit  of  celery,  a  sprig  of 
parsley,  one-half  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  pepper,  salt  and 
just  a  suspicion  of  nutmeg;  moisten  with  one-half  pint  of 
milk.  Stir  over  the  fire,  let  boil,  and  strain  in  a  basin ;  when 
wanted,  stir  in  cream  in  proportion  of  one-half  the  whole 
quantity,  and  place  the  cooked  whites  in  a  dish,  and  pour  this 
sauce  over  them. 

FRIED  WHITES  OF  EGGS 
Take  four  whites  of  eggs,  fry  in  butter,  and  serve. 

POACHED  WHITES  OF  EGGS  PLAIN 

Take  four  whites  of  eggs,  and  poach  them  in  a  poacher, 
and  either  serve  on  hot  buttered  toast  with  pepper  and  salt 
or  on  spinach. 

WHITES  OF  EGGS  AND  VEGETABLES 
Cut  some  small  carrots,  turnips,  onions  or  any  other  vege- 
tables, such  as  Jerusalem  artichokes,  celery,  leeks,  etc.,  and 
cook  them  till  very  tender.  Poach  four  whites  of  eggs,  and 
have  ready  a  cheese  sauce.  Put  the  vegetables  in  a  hot  dish, 
and  lay  on  whites  of  egg,  and  cover  with  the  cheese  sauce, 
with  sprinkled  parsley  on  top. 


310  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

SCALLOPS  OF  WHITES  OF  EGGS 

Take  as  many  scallops  as  required,  and  put  In  each  a  little 
butter  and  a  tablespoon  of  cream;  then  drop  in  the  white 
of  an  egg,  pepper  and  salt,  and  sprinkle  a  few  bread  crumbs 
and  chopped  parsley  on  the  top.  Put  into  the  oven  for  five 
minutes. 

Another  way  is  to  put  the  white  in  the  scallop  shell  as 
before,  and  cover  with  grated  cheese  and  pepper,  and  cook 
five  minutes. 

ROMAN  GNOCCHI 

J4  cup  butter  4  whites  of  eggs 

J4  cup  of  flour  %  cup  grated  cheese 

J^  cup  cornstarch  2  cups  milk 

Salt 

Melt  the  butter,  cook  the  cornstarch  thoroughly,  and  then 
the  flour  in  the  butter;  add  the  milk  gradually;  cook  three 
minutes,  stirring  constantly;  add  the  whites  and  one-half  cup 
of  the  cheese.  Pour  into  a  buttered  shallow  pan,  and  cool. 
Cut  into  squares;  place  them  on  a  platter  a  little  distance 
apart;  sprinkle  with  remaining  cheesfe,  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 

CHEESE  SOUFFL:^ 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  A  speck  of  cayenne 

3  tablespoons  flour  J4  ^up  grated  cheese 
Yi.  cup  milk  —  scalded                     3  whites  of  eggs 

yi  teaspoon  salt 

Melt  the  butter ;  add  the  flour,  and  when  well  mixed,  add 
gradually  the  scalded  milk.  Then  add  salt,  cayenne  and 
cheese.  Remove  from  the  fire.  Cool  the  mixture,  and  fold 
into  it  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff.  Pour  into  a 
buttered  baking  dish,  and  cook  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 
Serve  at  once.  Soufiles  must  go  directly  to  the  table  as  they 
fall  quickly  when  removed  from  the  heat. 


WHITES  OF  EGGS  311 

CHEESE  SOUFFL^  WITH  PASTRY 
2  whites  of  eggs  J^    cup    Swiss    cheese    cut    into 

5^  cup  thin  cream  small  pieces 

1  cup  grated  cheese  Salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  nutmeg 

Add  the  eggs  to  the  cream,  and  beat  slightly,  then  add  the 
cheese  and  seasoning.  Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven 
in  patty  tins  lined  with  puff  paste. 

CHEESE  AND  WHITES  OF  EGGS 

2  ounces  of  cheese  4  whites  of  eggs 

J4  gill  milk  4  fingers  buttered  toast 

I  ounce  of  butter  Salt 

Melt  the  butter  and  cheese  in  a  saucepan;  do  not  let  it 
cook.  Add  the  whites  of  egg,  seasoning  and  milk.  Stir 
until  it  thickens,  pour  on  hot  toast,  and  serve  at  once. 

WHITES  OF  EGGS  AND  TOMATOES 

Take  fair-sized  tomatoes,  cut  off  the  tops,  and  scoop  out 
some  of  the  pulp,  which  carefully  put  on  one  side.  Put  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  bit  of  butter  in  the  cavity,  and 
then  drop  in  a  white  of  egg.  Put  in  a  greased  dish,  and 
bake  for  ten  minutes.  The  scooped  out  pulp  should  be 
served  as  sauce  around  the  tomatoes,  after  being  seasoned 
and  heated  with  some  butter.  Can  either  be  served  on 
rounds  of  toast  or  in  the  pie  dish. 

WHITES  OF  EGGS  AND  CHEESE  SOUFFL^ 

One  gill  of  white  sauce,  one  ounce  of  grated  cheese  and 
two  whites  of  egg  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth;  have  ready  the 
cheese  sauce,  mix  it  with  the  whites,  and  put  in  small  rame- 
quin  cases,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes.  Must 
be  served  immediately. 

WHITES  OF  EGGS  FRIED  IN  BATTER 
Poach  lightly  four  whites  in  a  poacher,  dip  into  batter, 
made  with  whites  of  eggs,  and  fry  in  butter. 


312  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

CURRIED  WHITES  OF  EGGS 

Poach  or  hard-boil,  not  too  hard,  four  whites,  dish,  and 
serve  over  them  a  curry  sauce,  and^garnish  the  dish  round 
with  well  cooked  rice. 

Or,  take  four  whites  of  eggs,  mix  with  a  little  curry 
powder,  put  in  a  pan  with  one  ounce  of  butter,  pepper  and 
salt;  stir  until  sufficiently  cooked,  and  serve  on  hot  buttered 
toast. 

SCRAMBLED  WHITES  OF  EGGS 

Put  four  whites  of  egg  with  one  ounce  of  butter  into  a  pan 
with  some  pepper  and  salt,  stir  till  sufficiently  cooked,  and 
serve  on  buttered  toast.  This  can  be  varied  by  adding  a  lit- 
tle chutney,  pickled  walnuts,  or  a  tomato  skinned,  with  cay- 
enne pepper  or  mustard  stirred  into  it  while  it  is  cooking. 
Also,  a  little  milk  added  to  the  butter  when  cooking  makes 
a  slightly  different  dish. 

WHITES  OF  EGGS  SUR  LE  PLAT 

4  whites  of  egg  2  tablespoons  milk 

A  little  butter  Salt 

Butter  a  pie  dish  or  china  souffle  dish,  put  in  the  milk, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  drop  the  whites  of  egg  into  the  dish, 
and  bake  in  the  oven  in  a  tin  of  water  till  the  whites  are  just 
set. 

WHITES  OF  EGGS  IN  CHEESE  SAUCE 

Whip  lightly  four  whites  of  egg,  have  ready  some  cheese 
sauce,  and  mix  it  with  the  whites  of  egg,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  seven  to  ten  minutes.  It  can  be  put  into 
scallop  shells  or  a  small  souffle  dish.     Serve  at  once. 

WHITES  OF  EGGS  A  LA  TOMATO 

Stew  two  or  three  tomatoes  with  a  little  water,  salt,  pars- 
ley and  chopped  onion.  Drain  off  the  water,  pass  the  rest 
through  a  sieve,  and  put  into  an  earthen  dish  with  some  oil 


WHITES  OF  EGGS  313 

and  pepper,  and  let  it  fry  for  a  few  minutes.     Then  break 
four  whites  into  it,  and  let  them  cook  until  they  are  set. 

WHITES  OF  EGGS  AND  CHEESE  FRITTERS 

Four  whites  of  egg  with  as  much  grated  cheese  as  will 
make  a  stiff  paste ;  season  with  mustard,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
fry  in  butter  a  light  brown. 

Many  other  ways  of  doing  whites  of  egg  can  be  obtained 
by  following  ordinary  egg  recipes,  substituting  two  whites 
for  the  whole  egg. 

SNOWFLAKE  TOAST 

I  pint  milk  4  tablespoons  flour 

Yi.  cup  cream  2  egg  whites 

1  teaspoon     salt  Toasted  bread 

Heat  the  milk  to  scalding  in  a  double  boiler,  and  moisten 
the  flour  with  the  cream  a  little  at  a  time.  Rub  until 
smooth;  then  stir  into  the  hot  milk.  Cook  about  twenty 
minutes.  Add  the  salt,  and  pour  over  the  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites,  beating  meanwhile.  Moisten  the  toasted  bread  in  a 
little  hot  milk  or  cream,  and  pour  over  the  toast  the  above 
sauce. 

RICE  AND  NUT  RISSOLES 

2  ounces  rice  ^  pint  milk 

3  ounces  ground  almonds  White  of  one  egg 

2  ounces  pine  kernels  Little  pepper  and  salt 

Put  the  rice  and  milk  into  a  double  saucepan ;  cook  them 
for  two  hours,  or  until  the  milk  is  absorbed;  then  add  the 
almonds,  pine  kernels  and  pepper;  stir  it  round  a  few  times 
until  well  mixed;  then  add  the  well-beaten  white  of  egg. 
Mix  again,  and  form  into  rissoles ;  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  boiling  oil.  The  rissoles  may  be  formed  by  hand 
or  cut  out  into  half  circles  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Drain  on 
paper  before  serving. 


314  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

NUT  PUDDING  NO.  i 

6  ounces  of  Pignolias  Whites  of  4  eggs 

6  ounces  of  almonds  4  ounces  of  rusk  crumbs 

6  ounces  of  walnuts  Flavor  with  a  little  lemon 

Prepare  the  nuts,  and  put  them  two  or  three  times  through 
a  good  nut  mill;  then  pound  in  a  mortar;  add  the  rusk 
crumbs.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the 
flavoring,  and  mix  all  well  together.  Put  into  a  well  greased 
basin,  and  steam  for  about  seven  hours.  It  may  be  cooked 
without  rusk  crumbs  if  desired,  and  is  nice  either  cold  or  hot. 

NUT  PUDDING  NO.  2 

4  ounces  Pignolias  4  ounces  rusk  crumbs 

4  ounces  almonds  4  ounces  sultanas 

Whites  of  4  eggs 

Prepare  the  nuts,  and  grind  in  a  nut  mill;  then  pound 
with  a  pestle  and  mortar  thoroughly.  Put  the  rusk  crumbs 
through  the  nut  mill  and  then  through  thevsieve ;  pick  over, 
and  soak  the  sultanas  in  cold  water  over  night,""  strain,  and 
add  them  to  the  nuts  and  crumbs.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  to 
stiff  froth,  and  mix  in  last.  Put  into  a  basin,  and  steam  for 
six  or  seven  hours. 

NUT  PUDDING  NO.  3 

4  ounces  pine  kernels  4  ounces  Brazil  nuts 

4  ounces  almonds  4  ounces  walnuts 

Whites  of  5  eggs 

Grind  the  nuts,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar.  Add  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  steam  in  a  well  greased  basin 
for  about  five  hours. 

WALNUT  BALLS 

4  ounces  walnuts  Whites  of  3  eggs 

4  ounces  bread  crumbs  J^.  pint  sauce 

2  teaspoons  mixed  herbs 


WHITES  OF  EGGS  315 

Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  way  as  for  Walnut  Cutlets, 
forming  into  balls  instead  of  flat. 

WALNUT  CUTLETS 

4  ounces  bread  crumbs  J^  teaspoon  flour 

I  ounce  shelled  walnuts  I  teacup  of  milk 

1  teaspoon  butter  White  of  i  egg 

I  teaspoon  grated  onion  i  lemon 

Run  the  bread  crumbs  and  skinned  walnuts  through  a  nut 
mill.  Then  mix  them  in  a  basin  with  the  butter  and  the 
graited  onion.  Melt  a  large  teaspoon  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  half  a  teaspoon  of  flour,  and  add  the  milk  gradu- 
ally. When  this  boils,  add  the  other  ingredients,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste,  and  white  of  egg.  When  removed  from 
the  fire,  add  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice.  Stir  well,  and  turn 
out  into  a  dish  to  cool,  then  shape  into  cutlets ;  dip  in  white  of 
egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  In  boiling  oil.  Serve  with 
bread  or  tomato  sauce. 

CHEESE  CUSTARD 

1  cup  grated  cheese  4  whites  of  eggs 

J^  cup  cream  or  rich  milk  A  speck  of  salt  and  paprika 

Mix  the  cream  and  the  cheese,  and  heat  until  the  cheese 
is  melted.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  eggs.  Bake 
in  paper  cases  or  buttered  ramequins.  Serve  with  jelly  or 
preserves. 

ALMOND  AND  RICE  CAKES 

2  ounces  ground  almonds  2  ounces  sugar 

2  ounces  butter  4  ounces  ground  rice 

2  whites  of  egg 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream;  add  the  sugar  and  almonds; 
then  sprinkle  in  the  rice,  beating  it  all  the  time.  Whip  the 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  mix  all  together.  Drop 
about  a  teaspoonful  on  a  well  greased  baking  tin,  either  flat 


3i6  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

or  shallow,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  five  or  ten  rain» 
utes. 

DEVON  CAKE 

J4  cup  soft  butter  i  teaspoon  vanilla 

^  cup  sugar  i^  cups  flour 

Yt.  cup  milk  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  sugar  arid  baking  powder  together. 
Put  the  egg  whites,  butter,  vanilla  and  milk  together,  and 
beat  with  a  Dover  egg  beater  until  light.  After  this,  stir 
in  the  dry  ingredients.  Turn  into  a  loaf  tin,  or  bake  in 
layers. 

APRICOT  SHORTCAKE 

1  quart  canned  apricots  i  teaspoon  salt 
Yi  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

2  egg  whites  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Yz  cup  milk  Y^  cup  sugar 

Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together.  Beat  the 
egg  whites.  Add  the  milk.  Turn  this  mixture  into  the  dry 
ingredients.  Mix  all  together  thoroughly.  Add  the  melted 
butter,  and  bake  in  an  oblong  pan.  When  done,  remove 
from  the  oven,  split,  and  spread  on  the  freshly  cut  surface 
one-half  of  the  apricots  from  which  the  juice  has  been 
drained.  On  top  of  this  place  the  other  half  with  the 
freshly  cut  surface  on  top.  On  this  arrange  the  remaining 
half  of  the  apricots.  If  a  richer  cake  is  desired,  the  freshly 
cut  surface  may  be  spread  with  softened  butter  before  adding 
the  apricots.  Serve  with  this  a  sauce  made  by  adding  the 
sugar  to  the  juice  drained  from  the  apricots.  Boil  from  five 
to  ten  minutes,  and  serve'  over  each  individual  portion  of  the 
short-cake.  A  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  served  on  each 
portion  is  a  pleasant  addition. 

Shortcake  should  not  be  put  together  until  just  before  it 
is  to  be  served  as  the  juices  from  the  fruit  will  make  the  cake 
soggy. 


I 
WHITES  OF  EGGS  317 

COOKIES 

5^  cup  butter  3  cups  flour 

ij4  cups  sugar  J4  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  egg  whites  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

54  cup  milk 
Cream  the  butter.  Add  the  sugar  gradually,  and  the 
beaten  egg  whites.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  nutmeg 
together,  and  add  alternately  with  the  milk  to  the  first  mix- 
ture. Roll  to  one-third  inch  in  thickness.  Sprinkle  with 
granulated  sugar.  Cut  into  shape  with  a  cookie  cutter. 
Place  on  buttered  or  floured  tins,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until 
nicely  browned.  If  desired,  a  raisin  or  walnut  meat  may 
be  placed  in  each  cookie  before  baking. 

MOCK  ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

1  cup  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  sugar  i  teaspoon  flavoring 

1  cup  milk  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Whites  of  2  eggs 

Sift  the  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder  together  four 
times.  Heat  the  milk  to  scalding,  and  beat  the  egg  whites 
stiff.  Pour  the  scalding  milk  into  the  dry  ingredients,  stir- 
ring constantly,  and  fold  in  the  stifily  beaten  egg  whites. 
Add  the  flavoring,  and  turn  into  an  angel  food  cake  pan. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  thirty  minutes. 

ALMOND  PASTRY 

4  ounces  sweet  almonds  Whites  of  3  eggs 

2  bitter  almonds  M  teaspoon  baking  powder 
4  ounces  flour                                   4  ounces  sugar 

Blanch  the  almonds,  and  put  them  through  a  nut  mill; 
then  pound  them  well  in  a  mortar,  a  little  at  a  time,  adding 
occasionally  one  drop  of  water  to  keep  them  from  oiling. 
When  they  are  well  pounded,  return  the  whole  to  the  mortar, 
and  add  gradually  the  flour,  which  must  be  sifted,  and  the 


3i8  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

sugar.     Stir  in  the  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth'. 
Drop  one  tablespoon  for  each  cake  on  a  cake  tin,  and  bake 
immediately  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  ten  minutes. 
They  should  be  kept  in  a  closed  tin  in  a  dry  place. 

ALMOND  CONES 

4  ounces  ground  almonds  Yi  teaspoon  powdered  cinnamon 

I  ounce  sugar  Whites  of  3  eggs 

Mix  the  almonds,  sugar  and  cinnamon  well  together; 
whip  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  to  the  mix- 
ture. Line  a  flat  baking  sheet  with  buttered  paper.  Put 
little  rough  heaps  of  the  mixture  on  the  sheet,  a  good  dis- 
tance apart.  Bake  very  carefully  in  a  slow  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes.     Watch  carefully  or  they  will  burn. 

WHITE  LAYER  CAKE 

3  egg  whites  2  cups  flour 

I  cup  sugar  i  teaspoon  lemon  or  vanilla  ex- 

Yi.  cup  butter  tract 

[J^:  cup  milk 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together.  Beat  one  egg 
slightly,  and  add  to  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar.  Sift 
the  baking  powder  with  the  flour.  Add  the  milk  and  the 
flour  alternately  to  the  first  mixture.  Add  the  flavoring. 
Beat  the  remaining  egg  whites  until  stiff,  and  fold  into  the 
batter.  Bake  in  layers  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Use  any 
desired  cake  filling  between  the  layers. 

GERMAN  ALMOND  CAKE 

Yz  pound  of  almonds  1  teacup  of  milk 

J^.  pound  sugar  2  ounces  butter 

Whites  of  10  eggs  Grated"  rind  of  i  lemon 

4  ounces  of  flour 

Blanch  the  almonds,  and  put  them  through  the  nut  mill; 
then  pound  them  well  in  a  mortar,  a  little  at  a  time,  adding 


WHITES  OF  EGGS  319 

a  drop  of  water  occasionally  to  prevent  oiling.  Make  the 
milk  hot  enough  to  melt  the  butter.  Mix  the  sugar,  flour 
and  lemon  rind  very  carefully,  and  then  add  the  milk,  a  little 
at  a  time,  and  mix  until  perfectly  smooth.  Now  add  the 
almond  paste  to  the  flour,  etc.,  and  mix  all  well  together. 
Then  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  mix  them 
in  also.  When  all  ingredients  have  been  carefully  mixed, 
spread  the  mixture  about  an  inch  thick  on  a  well  buttered 
and  floured  baking  tin.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from 
twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour. 

COCOANUT  BISCUITS 

y^  pound  desiccated  cocoanut  3  ounces  ground  rice 

2  ounces  sugar  Whites  of  3  eggs 

Mix  well  together  the  cocoanut,  sugar  and  ground  rice. 
Whip  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  to  the 
other  ingredients,  a  little  at  a  time,  until  it  is  well  mix^d. 
Then  put  about  a  tablespoon  on  a  well  greased  baking  tin,  in 
very  rough  shaped  heaps.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  five 
minutes,  then  let  the  oven  cool,  and  cook  slowly  for  half  an 
hour.     They  should  be  a  golden  brown. 

COCOANUT  CAKES 

8  ounces  flour  4  ounces  cocoanut  desiccated 

3  ounces  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
ij^  ounces  sugar                              Whites  of  3  eggs 

Mix  the  flour  and  butter  together;  then  add  the  sugar, 
cocoanut  and  baking  powder.  Whisk  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  mix  with  the  other  ingredients  thoroughly  for  a 
few  minutes,  then  drop  about  a  tablespoonful  in  little  heaps 
on  the  oven  shelf  or  baking  sheet,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  One-half  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
gives  these  cakes  a  delicate  flavor  and  should  be  added  at 
the  same  time  as  the  egg  to  the  other  ingredients. 


320  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 
Whites  of  12  eggs  i^,  cups   sugar  measured   after 

ij^  teaspoons  cream  tartar  sifting 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  i  cup  and  i  tablespoon  white  flour 
Yi  teaspoon  lemon  extract  measured  after  sifting 

Measure  out  all  ingredients  before  commencing  to  put  the 
cake  together.  Sift  flour  and  cream  of  tartar  together  five 
times.  Sift  sugar  five  times.  Beat  egg  whites  till  very 
foamy,  but  not  stiff ;  add  flavoring,  sift  in  sugar  slowly,  beat- 
ing all  the  time.  Use  care  to  avoid  making  the  mixture  stiff. 
Sift  in  the  flour  slowly,  mixing  with  a  light  folding  motion. 

Bake  in  an  unbuttered  pan  fifty-five  to  sixty  minutes. 
Place  a  pan  of  boiling  water  under  the  cake  during  the  first 
forty-five  minutes.  The  oven  should  not  be  opened  for  the 
first  twenty  minutes.  When  the  cake  is  done,  place  upside 
down  on  a  cake  cooler,  and  leave  In  pan  till  cold. 

BETHLEHEM  STARS 

To  make  the  stars,  bake  a  white  sponge  cake  in  a  square 
or  oblong  tin  with  an  opening  in  the  center.  This  cake 
should  be  made  a  day  or  two  before  it  is  wanted  for  serving. 
Then  cut  in  slices  about  three-fourths  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 
With  a  star-shaped  cutter  about  two  and  one-half  inches  in 
diameter,  cut  the  stars. 

If  a  cutter  is  not  available,  the  stars  may  be  cut  with  a 
sharp  cake  knife. 

ALMOND  WAFERS 

J4  cup  butter  1^4  cups  flour 

Y2  cup  pulverized  sugar  J^  teaspoon  vanilla  extract 

2  whites  of  egg  "%  teaspoon  almond  extract 
I  tablespoon  milk                              Blanched  almonds 

Cream  the  butter,  and  gradually  mix  in  the  sugar.  Re- 
serve one-half  of  the  egg  white  with  which  to  glaze  the  cakes. 
Beat  the  remaining  egg  white,  and  add  to  the  creamed  butter 


WHITES  OF  EGGS  321 

and  sugar.  Then  add  the  flavoring,  the  milk  and  the  flour. 
Roll  the  dough,  a  little  at  a  time,  into  thin  sheets,  and  cut 
into  fancy  shapes.  Then  bake  in  buttered  tins.  Arrange 
six  or  eight  halves  of  blanched  almonds,  cut  lengthwise, 
about  the  center  of  each  cake  in  such  a  way  as  to  represent 
the  petals  of  a  flower.  Brush  with  the  white  of  an  egg. 
Sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
till  of  a  delicate  brown  color. 


CHICKEN 

And  we  meet,  with  champagne  and  a  chicken,  at  last. 

Lady  Montague. 

DRESSING  FOR  STUFFING  CHICKENS 

i/^  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  Chopped  onions 

Ys  cup  butter  Herbs 

Salt  .Pepper 

Mix  the  ingredients,  season  to  taste  and  moisten.  Fill 
both  openings  of  bird,  each  about  half  full  and  either  truss 
or  use  skewers  to  hold  the  chicken  in  shape.  Boiled  chest- 
nuts can  be  added  to  the  dressing,  in  which  case  omit  all  sea- 
soning but  the  salt  and  pepper.  Celery  and  parsley  also 
improve  the  flavor. 

ROAST  CHICKEN 

Clean,  stuff,  and  truss  the  chicken  and  put  It  on  its  back 
in  the  pan.  Dredge  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  dot  it 
with  bits  of  butter.  Put  a  little  water  in  the  pan  and  bake 
In  a  hot  oven,  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound.  Baste 
frequently,  using  two  tablespoons  of  butter  melted  in  a  cup  of 
boiling  water.  The  heat  of  the  oven  should  be  reduced 
when  the  chicken  begins  to  brown.  Continue  basting  every 
ten  minutes,  using  the  drippings  In  the  pan.  Turn  the  bird 
often  while  cooking  that  It  may  brown  evenly.  When 
cooked,  remove  to  a  hot  platter,  and  make  the  gravy. 

GRAVY  FOR  ROAST  POULTRY 

When  the  chicken  has  been  taken  from  the  pan,  add  to  the 
drippings  two  tablespoons  of  flour;  let  it  brown,  stirring 

32a 


CHICKEN  323 

constantly,  then  add  slowly  the  water  in  which  the  liver  was 
boiled. 

Cook  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  and  add  hot  water 
if  the  gravy  is  too  thick,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  the 
finely  chopped  liver  which  has  been  parboiled  in  salted  water. 

BROILED  CHICKEN 

Split  down  the  back,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
rub  all  over  with  softened  butter,  especially  breast  and  legs. 
Place  on  a  well-greased  broiler,  and  broil  over  a  slow  fire 
about  twenty  minutes,  turning  often.  The  flesh  side  must 
be  turned  to  the  fire  for  the  longer  time  as  the  skin  side 
would  burn  before  the  chicken  is  cooked  through.  Put  on  a 
hot  dish  and  spread  with  maitre  d'hotel  butter,  and  garnish 
with  parsley. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN 

I  cup  cold  cooked  chicken  i  tablespoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  i  tablespoon  flour 
Salt,  paprika  I  cup  rich  milk 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saudepan,  add  the  flour,  and  pour  the 
milk  in  sjowly,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  until  the  raw  taste 
of  the  flour  is  gone.  Add  the  parsley  and  seasoning  and  the 
diced  chicken  and  cook  five  minutes.     Serve  on  toast. 

SCALLOPED  CHICKEN 

Put  creamed  chicken  into  a  baking  dish ;  cover  with  grated 
cheese,  bread  crumbs  and  small  pieces  of  butter,  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN 

3  ounces  vegetable  gelatine  i  cup  chopped  chicken 

2  cups  of  chicken  broth  Salt,  onion  juice 

Soak  the  gelatine  In  a  cup  of  hot  water  20  minutes,  and 
add  the  boiling  hot  broth,  stirring  until  dissolved.  Season 
well.     Pour  in  a  mold  wet  with  cold  water,  enough  gelatine 


324  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

to  cover  the  bottom,  and  put  aside  until  finn.  Mix  the: 
chopped  chicken  with  the  rest  of  the  gelatine  and  put  in  the 
mold.  Serve  with  a  highly  seasoned  sauce.  A  decoration 
of  truffles  may  be  put  on  top  of  the  mold. 

BALTIMORE  CHICKEN 

Split  a  spring  chicken  and  cut  in  four  pieces.  Moisten, 
and  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  dip  in  egg  and  fresh  crumbs. 
Dredge  with  flour  and  place  in  a  greased  pan,  and  bake 
twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  after  first  ten  minutes 
with  melted  butter.  Remove  to  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  a 
white  sauce  made  of  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  one  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Garnish  with  fingers  of 
toast  or  fried  mush. 


MENUS 

Where's  the  cook?    Is  supper  ready,  the  house  trimmed,  rushes 
strewed,  cobwebs  swept? 

Shak£Spearx. 

BREAKFAST  MENUS 

Sliced  Pineapple 

Boiled  Rice 

Hashed  Browned  Potatoes  iWhole  Wheat  Gems 

Cocoa 


Baked  Bananas 


Oranges 

Hominy 

Potato  Cakes 

Cereal  Co£Eee 


Toasted  White  Bread 


Fresh  Strawberries 
Baked   Mush  Maple  Syrup 


Minced  Potato 

G 

Cereal  Coffee 

«        *        * 

raham  Hurry-Ups 

Fried  Mush 

Grape  Fruit 
Toasted  Rice  Flakes 

Buttermilk 

*        *        * 

Currant  Gems 

Fried  Tomatoes 

Malaga  Grapes 
Shredded  Wheat  Biscuits 

Chocolate 
325 

Com  Cake 

326 


MEATLESS  COOKERY 


Bananas 
Cream  of  Wheat 
Fried  Bread  with  Cheese 

Hot  Malted  Milk 

*  *        * 

Oranges 
Bran  Mush 
Mushrooms  in  Cream 

Cocoa 

*  »        * 

Baked  Sweet  Apples 


Toasted  Corn  Flakes 


Sliced  Potatoes  in  Cream 


Potato  and  Onion  Hash 


Grape  Juice 

*  *        * 

Apples 
Pearl  Barley 

Cereal  Coffee 

*  *        * 

Grape  Fruit 
Rolled  Oats 

Cocoa 


Com  Gems 


Parker  House  Rolls 


Cream  Toast 


Whole  Wheat  Bread 


Rice  Muffins 


Baking  Powder  Biscuit 


Creamed  Potatoes 


Cheese  Souffle 


Grape  Fruit 
Mush 

Cereal  Coffee 
*        «        * 

Oranges 
Farina 


Cereal  Coffee 

»        *        * 

Cereal  with  Stewed  Figs 


Honey 


Com  Muffins 


Entire  Wheat  Muffins 


Cereal  Coffee  or  Cocoa 


MENUS 


327 


Lyonnaise  Potatoes 

Baked  Bananas 
Uncooked  Cereal 

Buckwheat  Cakes  and  Syrup 
Cereal  Coffee  or  Cocoa 

*        *        * 

Boiled  Fondue 

Coddled  Apples 
Cereal  with  Cream 

Cereal  Coffee 

*        »        * 

Whole  Wheat  Rolls 

Potato  Balls 

Malaga  Grapes 
Wheatena 

Cereal  Coffee 

*        *        * 

Rye  Biscuits 

Oatmeal 

Blackberries 

Fried  Bread  with  Cheese 
Cereal  Coffee 

«        «        * 

Griddle  Cakes 
\ 

Hoe  Cake 

Figs 
Rice 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 
Cereal  Coffee 

*        *        * 

Broiled  Tomatoes 

Huckleberries 
Cream  of  Wheat 

Cocoa 

«        *        » 

Gluten  Gems 

Banana  Baked 

Prunes 
Hominy 

Cereal  Coffee 

Cream  Biscuits 

328 


MEATLESS  COOKERY 


Rice  and  Cheese 


Stewed  Tomatoes 


Lettuce  Sandwiches 


Steamed  Rice 

Plum  Sauce 

Escalloped  Potatoes 

Cream  Cheese 


Cantaloupe 
Corn  Flakes 

Cereal  Coffee 

LUNCHEON  MENUS 
Asparagus  Tips  on  Toast 

Prune  Fluff 

*  *         * 

Creamed  Okra  on  Toast 

Apple  Sauce 

Date  Surprise 

*  *         * 

Spinach  on  Toast 


Ash  Cake 


Cottage  Cheese 


Banana  Salad 


Strained  Honey 
Ginger  Bread 

String  Beans 
Prune  Sauce 


Hominy 


Cherry  Bread 

*  *        * 

Date  Toast 

Orange  Fluff 

*  *        * 

Russian  Toast 
Breaded  Tomatoes 

Banana  Dessert 

*  *        « 

Chestnut  Flour  Soup 
Fried  Mush 

Pineapple  Tapioca 

*  *        * 

Rice  Soup 
Potato  Croquettes 

Tomato  Sandwiches 
Malaga  Grapes 


Somerset  Sandwiches 


Pineapple  Sauce 
Wafers 


Date  Sandwiches 


Cottage  Cheese 


MENUS 


329 


Vegetable  Bouillon 
Steamed  Rice  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Honey  Apples 


Fruit  Crackers 


Creamed  Corn 


Creamed  Hominy 


Escalloped  Tomatoes 


Pearl  Barley  with  Dates 
Baked  Apple  Jelly 
*        *        * 

Asparagus  Broth 

Apple,  Cheese  and  Nut  Salad 
Fig  Tapioca  Whipped  Cream 


Tomato  and  Celery  Soup 
Potato  and  Rice  Patties 

Lettuce  French  Dressing 
Prune  Fluff 

*  *        * 

Tomato  Bouillon 

Cheese  on  Toast 

Orange  Jelly  Whipped  Cream 

English  Walnuts 

*  *        * 

Cream  of  Rice  Soup 
Baked  Tomatoes  on  Toast 

Cocoanut  Blancmange 

*  *        * 

Cream  of  Spinach  Soup 
Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 

Peanut  Butter  Sandwiches 
Apple  Sauce  Cake 

*  *        * 


Stuffed  Olives 


Welsh  Rarebit 

Brown  Bread  Sandwiches 
Molasses  Cake 


Green  Peas 


French  Salad 


Commeal  Bread 


Fruit  Salad 


330  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

Potato  Chowder 

Buttered  Toast  Endive  Salad  Cheese 

Baked  Apple  Dumpling 

*  *        * 

Split  Pea  Soup  Croutons 

Baked  Onions  Stuffed  with  Nuts  Cream  Toast 

Date  Pudding  Hard  Sauce 

*  *        * 

Nut  and  Vegetable  Stew 
Fruit  Macedoine 

White  Clover  Honey 
Pecans 

*  »        * 

Cream  of  Barley  Soup 

Cheese  Salad 
Ginger  Snaps 


Buns 


Stuffed  Potatoes 

Pineapple 


Escalloped  Tomatoes 

Bavarian  Cream 


*        *        * 
Green  Pea  Soup 


Ripe  Olives 
Yorkshire  Cake 


Saratoga  Potatoes 


Cream  of  Celery  Soup 
Brown  Betty  Hard  Sauce 

DINNER  MENUS 

Cream  of  Vegetable  Oyster  Soup 
Boston  Roast 


Head  Lettuce 


Browned  Potatoes 


Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes 


Turnip  Puree 

Date  Surprise 
*        «        « 

Potato  Chowder 
Macaroni  au  Gratin 

Fruit  Salad 
Ginger  Pudding 


Baked  Egg  Plant 


Fresh  Spinach 


MENUS  331 

Lima  Bean  Soup 

Irish  Stew  Chili  Sauce 

Creamed  Potatoes  Buttered  Beets 

Radishes 

Lemon  Pie  Pecans 

Tomato  Bisque 

Baked  Beans  Potato  with  Parmesan 

Mashed  Squash  Celery 

Cottage  Pudding  English  Walnuts 

Vegetable  Soup 
Mushroom  Pie  Baked  Sweet  Potatoes  Boiled  Onions 

Cheese  Balls 
Brown  Betty 

Italian  Soup 

Macaroni  and  Kidney  Beans  Parisian  Potatoes 

Egg  Plant  Waldorf  Salad 

Chocolate  Layer  Pudding  Pine  Nuts 

*  *        * 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup 

Rice  a  la  Mexicaine  Mashed  Potatoes 

Vegetable  Oysters  Macedoine  Salad 

Tapioca  Pudding 

*  *        * 

Cream  of  Potato  Soap 

Bananas  Fried  Lima  Beans  Mashed  Turnips 

Combination  Salad 

Oranges  Filberts 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup 

Macaroni  with  Tomato  Baked  Potatoes 

Buttered  Cauliflower  Apple  and  Celery  Salad 

Cream  of  Rice  Pudding 


332 

Cornmeal  Cutlets 


MEATLESS  COOKERY 


Cream  of  Bean  Soup 
Browned  Potatoes  Green  Peas 

Lettuce  French  Dressing 
Normandy  Pudding  Whipped  Cream 

Tomato  Soup 

Vegetable  Marrow,  Stuffed  New  Potatoes 

Rice  and  Almond  Molds 

Stewed  Green  Gages  Cheese  Straws 


Rice  Rissoles 


Spinach  Soup 
Stuffed  Tomatoes  Potatoes 

Ginger  and  Cream 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 
Cucumber  Stewed  with  Onions 

Lettuce  Salad 
Cheese  Pudding 

*  *        « 

Brown  Potato  Soup 

Baked  Tomatoes 

Celery  Salad 

Clear  Apples 

*  *        * 

Tomato  Soup 
Turkish  Pilaf 
Corn 

Almond  Apple 

*  *        * 

Creole  Soup 

Celerlac 
German  Pudding 

*  *        * 

Artichoke  Soup 
Tomato  and  Potato  Pie 

Almond  and  Raisin  Pudding 


Asparagus 


Cheese  Fritters 


Curried  Vegetables 
Puffed  Potatoes 


New  Potatoes 


Spinach 


Cheese  Balls 
Peas 


Cauliflower  in  Cream 
Summer  Salad 


Cheese  on  Toast 


MENUS  333 

Almond  Soup 

Curried  Cauliflower  and  Rice  Stuffed  Peppers 

Apple  Tart  Cheese  Ramequins 

*  *        * 

Macaroni  Soup 

Chestnut  Puree  Onions  Stewed  Boiled  Potatoes 

Green  Ginger  Pudding 

*  *        * 

Manhattan  Soup 
Macaroni  Italian  Potato  and  Onion  Pie 

Squash 
Baked  Apples 

Cauliflower  Soup 

Mushrooms  in  Cream  Apple  Sauce 

Saute  Potatoes  Mashed  Turnips 

Pumpkin  Pie 

»        *        * 

Onion  Soup 

Brazil  Cutlets  Bread  Sauce  and  Brown  Gravy 

Potatoes  Seakale 

Salad  and  Cheese 

Charlotte  Russe 

*  *        » 

Chestnut  Soup 

Macaroni  and  Tomatoes  Apple  Sauce 

Mashed  Potatoes  Brussels  Sprouts 

Cranberry  Pudding  Celery  Sticks 

«        *        • 

Black  Bean  Soup 

Macaroni  Cheese  Mashed  Potatoes  Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Carrot  Pudding  Sauce 

Olives  Celery 

Bonbons 


334  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

SPECIAL  DINNER  MENUS 

EASTER  MENU 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup  Wafers 

Radishes  Ripe  Olives  Salted  Almonds 

Apple  Fritters 

Macaroni  Cutlets 

Potato  Puffs  Fresh  Asparagus  Baked  Onions 

Tomato  Salad 

Whole  Wheat  Bread  Graham  Bread  Bran  Biscuit 

Pineapple  Gelee         Mixed  Nuts  Oranges 

LINCOLN'S  BIRTHDAY  MENU 

Tomato  Soup 

Celery  Ripe  Olives 

Hominy  Croquettes  Mushroom  Sauce 

Baked  Potatoes  Boiled  Onions  Fried  Egg  Plant 

Apple  and  Nut  Salad  Marmalade  Sandwiches 

Sweet  Cider  Candied  Fruit  Pudding 

Mixed  Nuts  Apples  Oranges 

CHRISTMAS  MENU 

Macedoine  of  Fruit 

Julienne  Soup  Croutons 

Celery  Radishes  Ripe  Olives 

Chestnut  Pie  Cranberry  Jelly 

Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes  Creamed  Brussels  Sprouts 

Christmas  Salad 

Cinnamon  Buns  Bread  Fingers 

Plum  Pudding  Nuts  and  Raisins 

Bonbons 

CHRISTMAS  MENU 

Fruit  Cocktail 

Radishes  Celery  Salted  Almonds 

Manhattan  Soup  Toasted  Squares 

Rissoles  Stuffed  Potatoes 

Asparagus  Tips  Peas 


MENUS  335 

Barley  Water 

Head  Lettuce  Celery  Sandwiches  Cheese 

Mince  Pie  Assorted  Fruit 

Cereal  Coffee 

CHRISTMAS  MENU 

Salpicon  of  Fruit 

Tomato  Bisque  Rice  Biscuit 

Radishes  Pine  Nuts  Ripe  Olives 

Curried  Vegetables  Sauce  Diced  Cucumbers 

Potatoes  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel 

Spanish  Onions  Cranberry  Sauce 

Apple  and  Celery  Salad  Wafers 

Caramel  Ice  Cream     Assorted  Fruit     Creamed  Cheese  on  Wafers 

WASHINGTON'S  BIRTHDAY  MENU 

Washington  Chowder 

Celery  Radishes 

Spaghetti  Croquettes  Cranberry  Jelly 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes  Buttered  Cauliflower  Italian  Beets 

Potato  Salad 

Whole  Wheat  Bread  Fruit  Bread 

Apple  Sauce 

Cherry  Pie  Gingerbread 

Oranges  English  Walnuts 

Cereal  Coffee 

ST.  PATRICK'S  DAY  MENU 

Cream  of  Spinach  Soup 

Celery  Bread  Sticks 

Hot  Pot  Cucumber  Jelly 

Mashed  Irish  Potatoes  Fresh  String  Beans 

Creamed  Com  au  Gratln 

Combination  Green  Salad 

Whole  Wheat  Bread  Toasted  Rice  Biscuit 

Apple  Roll  Almonds  Apples 

Iced  Ginger  Ale 


336  MEATLESS  COOKERY 

FOURTH  OF  JULY  MENU 

Iced  Tomato  Bouillon  Whipped  Cream 

Savory  Tomatoes 

Stuffed  Potatoes  Peas  in  Cream  Fresh  Asparagus 

Summer  Salad 

Rice  Biscuit 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  Fresh  Red  Raspberries 

Brazil  Nuts 

THANKSGIVING  MEN^ 

Cream  of  Chestnut  Soup 

Celery  Radishes  Ripe  Olives 

Nut  and  Cheese  Roast  Browned  Potatoes  Cranberry  Sauce 

Stuffed  Cucumbers  Fruit  Salad 

Nut  Buns  Graham  Bread 

Pumpkin  Pic  Mince  Pie 

Oranges  Apples 


INDEX 


INDEX 


AdmlrBl  PaddinsTi  237. 
Aerated  Nut  Fnffs,   23. 
Alligator  Pear  Salad,  195. 
Almond  Apple>  276. 

And  Bread  PuddlnSp 
247. 

And  Honey  Cakes,   296. 

And  Raisin  Fuddlns, 
247. 

And  Bice  Cakes,  315. 

Biscuits,  293. 

Cake,  295. 

Cake,    German,    318. 

Cones,   318. 

Cup  Pudding,  247. 

Milk,    3. 

Molds,  Bice  and,  254. 

Pastry,   317. 

Puddlntr,    246. 

Soup,  67. 

Boup,   Cream  of,   68. 

Wafers,    320. 
Almonds,  Salted,  219. 
Angel  Food  Cake^  320. 
Angel  Food  Gake^  Mock, 

317. 
ApolllnaiiB  Iiemonade, 

Soda  or,  7. 
Apple  Almond,  276. 

And  Celery  Salad,  195. 

And  Cheese  Salad.  195. 

And    Grape   Salad,    196. 

Charlotte,    288. 

Com  Bread,    24. 

Cream    Pie,    Mew   Bns- 
land,    224. 

Fritters,   272. 

Gateau,  234. 

Jelly,  Mo.  1,  274, 

Jelly,   Mo.   2,  275. 

Maple,    271 

Mold.    275. 

Pudding,    275. 

Pudding,  Macaroni  and. 
274. 

Padding,  Rice  and,  274. 

Pudding,    Tapioca   and, 
260. 

Roll,   289. 

Bauce  Cake,    296L 

Enow  BaUi^  177, 

Tart.  11^ 


Tart,  272. 

Tart,  Fig  and,   265. 
AppleSk  Baked,  271. 

Casserole   of,   235 
'  Honey,    271. 

With  Rolled  Oats,    273. 
Apricot  Shortcake,   316. 
Aprlcota  &  la  Cond£,  270. 

Hydrated,   270. 

Jellied,   235. 

Stewed,  270. 
Apoler  Busks,   216. 
Artichoke   Base,    130. 

Soup,    64. 
Artichokes,  lYench,   129. 

Fried  Jerusalem,   130. 

Jerusalem.   129. 

Scalloped  Jerusalem, 
130. 
Ash  Cake,  24. 
Asparagus,  BoUed,  128. 

In  Cream,   128. 

In  Canapes,  128. 

Salad,    201. 

Soup,  48. 

Soup,  Cream  of.  Mo.  1, 
48. 

Boup,  Cream  of.  Mo.  2, 
48. 

With  Green  Peas,  129. 
Aspic,  Beets  and  Feaa  la, 

202. 
Jelly,  191. 


Baked  Apples,  271, 
Bananas,   No.   1,  267. 
Bananas,    Mo.    2,    267. 
Beans,  No.  1,  133. 
Beans,  Mo.  2,  133. 
Cheese,  German  Dish. 

91. 
Com,  146. 
Crackers  and  Cheese, 

Mo.   1,   82. 
Crackers  and  Cheese. 

No.  2,  83. 
Egg  Plant,  160. 
Kggs,   301. 

Eggs  with  Cheese,   803. 
Kggs  with  Cheese,  107. ' 
lienUls,  152. 
Lima  Beans,  133k 

339 


HaearonI,  100. 

Onions,  155. 

Pears,    280. 

Potatoes,  165. 

Potatoes  and  Whites  of 
Bggs,   308. 

Rice  and  Cheese,  Mo.  1, 
94. 

Rice  and  Cheese,  No.  2, 
94. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  174. 

Tomato  on  Toast,  213. 

Tomatoes,  179. 

With  Grated  Cheese, 
Onions,    157. 
Baking    Powder   Biscuits, 

30. 
Balls,  Apple  Snow,  277, 

Butter,    219. 

Potato,   166. 

Rice,   255. 

Semolina,   122. 

Surprise,    164. 

Walnut,   314. 
Baltimore  Chicken,   324. 
Banana  and  Orange 
Cream,   233. 

And  Walnut  Salad,  200. 

Cream,    233. 

Cutlets,    123. 

Dessert,  269. 

Fritters,   269. 

Mold,  231. 

Pudding,  268. 

Salad,   199. 
Bananas  and  Cream,  No. 
1,    268. 

And  Cream,  Mo.  2.  268. 

Baked,   No.   1,   267. 

Baked,  No.  2,  267. 

Fried,   122. 

Stewed,  268. 
Bannocks,  20. 
Barley  Broth.  SO. 

Jelly,  14. 

Soup,    60. 

Soup,   Cream  of,   60. 

Soup,  Tomato  and,  61. 

Stock,   44. 

Water,  6. 

With  Dates,  Pearl,  14. 
IBase,  Artichoke,  130. 
Baskets,  Castle,  261. 
Batter,  42. 


340 


INDEX 


For  Frying  Savorlea,  42. 

For  Frying  Sweets,    42. 

Tomatoes   In,    180. 

Whites    of    Eggs    Fried 
In,    311. 
Bean  Croquettes,  134. 

SouP',   54. 

Soup,   Butter,   BB. 

Soup,  Cream  of,  64. 

Soup,    Cream,   o£    Lima, 
B4. 
Beans,  Baked,  No.  1,  133. 

Baked,    No.    2,    133. 

Baked  Lima,  133. 

Dried,  132. 

Kidney,  132. 

Lima,  132. 

Macaroni    and    Kidney, 
109. 

Salad,   131. 

SautS,  Dried,  132. 

Scarlet  Bunner,   131. 

String,  131. 

To  Blanch  String,  130. 
Beatem  Blecnits,   29. 

Corn  Bread,  27. 
Bechamel  Sauce,  184. 
Beet  Blssolee,  Mock,  89. 
Beet  Greens,  13B. 

Salad,    203. 

Savory,   220. 

Soup,   66. 

Soup,   Russian,   67. 
Beets  and  Peas  In  Aspic, 
202. 

Buttered,   134. 

Italian,    134. 
Berkeley  Salad,  200. 
Bethlehem  Stars,  320. 
Biscuits,  Almond,   298. 

Baking  Powder,  30. 

Beaten,   29. 

Cheese,  No.  1,  37. 

Cheese,   No.   2,   38. 

Cocoanut,  319. 

Cream,    30. 

Fruit,    31. 

Parched  Com  Meal,  27. 

Vanilla,    30. 
Bisque  Ice  Cream,  291. 

Soup,   Mock,  72. 

Tomato,    72. 
Blackberry  Jelly,  280. 
Blanc   Mange,   Chocolate, 
252. 

Cocoanut,   252. 

Rice,    255. 
Blaeberry  Muffins,  33. 
Bohemian    Potato    Puffs, 

173. 
Boiled    Asparagus,    128. 

Cabbage,  136. 

Corn  on  the  Cob,  145. 

Bggs,    Hard,    301. 

Eggs,  Soft,  No.  1,  301. 

Eggs,   Soft,   No.   2,    301. 

Fondue,  87. 


For  Curry,  Rice,  93. 
Frosting,    299. 
Kohl-Rabl,   151. 
Lettuce,  163. 
Macaroni,  99. 
Onions,   154. 
Potatoes,    168. 
Puddings,  Paste  for,  41. 
Rice,   91. 
Rice,  Japanese  Method, 

12. 
Spinach,   176. 
Sweet   Potatoes,    174. 
Border,    Potato,    170. 
Bost-on  Brown  Bread,  No. 

1,   18. 
Brown  Bread,  No.  2,  18. 
Brown  Bread  Sand- 
wiches,   208. 
Roast,   84. 
Bouillon,  Vegretable,   59. 
Bran  Brose,  Scotch,  13. 
Gems,    35'. 
Lemonade,    6. 
Muffins,   No.   1,   35. 
Muffins,  No.   2,   35. 
Muffins,    Fruit,    35. 
To  Sterilize,  13. 
Brandy  and  Milk,  Sherry  . 

or,  4. 
Brazil   Nut  Cutlets,   114. 
Bread,  15. 
And  Butter  Fritters, 

243. 
And  Butter  Sandwiches, 

208. 
And  Onion  Pudding, 

156. 
Apple  Com,  24. 
Beaten  Com,  27. 
Boston  Brown,  No.  1, 

18. 
Boston  Brown,  No.  2, 

18. 
Corn,    19. 
Cutlets,    126. 
Dessert,  Orange,  284. 
Fruit,   19. 

Gluten    and    Corn,    25. 
Graham,    20. 
Indian   Meal,    24. 
Milk,   16. 
Nut,    20. 
Pudding,    244. 
Pudding,     i,     la     Fran- 

Caise,  244. 
Pudding,    Almond    and, 

247. 
Raspings,    217. 
Rolls.    Cheese   and,    86. 
Sandwiches,    Boston 

Brown,  208. 
Sauce,  188. 
Sauce,    Chestnuts   with, 

114. 
Self  Rising,   17. 
Soft  Graham,  19. 


South     Carolina    Corn, 

24. 
Third,   26. 
■White,  16. 
Whole  Wheat,   18. 
With  Cheese,  Fried,  No. 

1,  86. 

With  Cheese,  Fried,  No. 

2,  85. 

Zufii,  Indian,  26. 
Breakfast  Cereals  nlth 

Cheese,   11. 
Broiled  Chicken,  323. 

Egg  Plant,  150. 

Mushrooms,   126. 

Tomatoes,  178. 
Brose,    Scotch   Bran,   13. 
Broth,  Barley,  60. 

Scotch,    61. 
Brown  Betty,  276. 

Betty  with  Cheese,  276. 

Ginger  Pudding,  258. 

Potato    Soup,    74. 

Potatoes,   Hashed,  170. 

Sauce,    183. 

Sauce-,  Celery  with,  143. 
Browned  Potatoes,   169. 

Spanish   Onions,   155. 

Sweet   Potatoes,    175. 
Brussels  Sjnrouts,  Blanch- 
ed, 135. 

Sprouts,  Creamed,  135. 

Sprouts,   SautS,   135. 
Buck  Rarebit,  306. 
Buckwheat  -  Pancakes,   22. 
Bulgarian  Sal^d,  197. 
Buns,  31. 

Cinnamon,   32. 

Nut,    32. 
Burnt    Sugar,    Bice   Pud- 
ding with,  242. 
Butter  Balls,    219. 

Maltre   d'HOtel,    188. 

Sauce,    Drawn,    185. 
Butter  Bean  Soup,  55. 

Bean    Stock,    44, 
Buttered  Beets,  134. 

Cauliflower,   139. 
Buttermilk   Cheese,    218. 

Cornmeal   Mush,   11. 

Cream,    186. 

Cream  Horseradish 
Dressing,    206. 

Cream    Salad    Dressing, 
206. 

Or  Yogurt  Jelly,   229. 


Cabbage  and  Fotatoe*t 
Purfie    of,    137. 
Au  Gratin,   136. 
Boiled,  136. 
Creamed,   137. 
In  Milk,  Stewed,  187. 
Soup,   64. 


INDEX 


341 


Cake,  Almond,  295. 

Angel   Food.    320. 

Apple   Sauce,    295. 

Ash,   24. 

Cherry,   267. 

Crisp  Com  Meal,   2S. 

Devon,  316. 

Germcin  Almond,   318. 

Golden  Com,  21. 

Eoe,  29. 

Johnny,   23. 

Lancashire    Potato,    21. 

Light  Prult,    295. 

Mock  Angel  Food,  317. 

White  Layer.    318. 

Torlcshire,    296. 
Cakes,  Almond  and  Hon- 
ey, 296.  ' 

Almond  and  Rice.   315. 

Cheese.   37. 

Cheese,   297. 

Cocoanut.    319. 

Or    Rissoles,    Macaroni, 
103. 

Potato,   164. 

Roxbury,    296. 

Savory   Cheese,    88. 

Scotch  Oaten,  21. 
Canadian  Cheese  Pad- 
ding,  86. 
Canap£g,  Asparagns  In, 

128. 
Candied  Frnlt  Pndding, 
244. 

Sweet  Potatoes,    175. 
Caramel  Com  Starch 

Pudding,    251. 
Carrot  Pudding,  No.  1. 
245. 

Pudding.    No.    2,    245. 

Soup,    No.    1,    55. 

Soup,  No.   2,  56. 
Carrots,   138. 

A  TAUemande,  138. 

Creamed,    138. 

With    Green    Peas,    139. 

With  Peas,  Sugared, 
139. 
Casserole  of  Apples,  235. 

Of   Oranges,    283. 

Of  Prunes,  263. 
Casseroles,    Tomatoes    in, 

179. 
Castle  Baskets,   261. 

Puddings.   261. 
Catsup  Dressing,  207. 
Canliflower  &  la  Mattre  d'- 

H3tel,   143.1 

And  Tomato,  140. 

An  Gratin,  140. 

Buttered,   139. 

Creamed.    139. 

Curried,   141. 

Salad,   199. 

Salad,  Tomato  and,  193. 

Savory,    142. 

ScaUoped,    140. 


Soup,  No.  1,  67. 
Soup,  No.  2,  57. 
With  Parmesan  CheesSL 

141. 
Celerlac,  146. 

PurSe  of.  146. 
CeUcy,   142. 

And  Cheese.  143. 
And  Macaroni  Stew, 

144. 
And  Tomato  Salad,  201. 
Au  Gratin,   144. 
Croquettes,   143. 
Hash,  Potatoes  and, 

168. 
On  Toast,  Creamed,  216. 
Peas  and,  161. 
Relish,    220. 
Salad,  201. 

Salad,   Apple   and,    196. 
Salad,  Peas  and.  203. 
Salad,  Tomato  and,  194. 
Sauce,   184. 
Soup,  45. 
Soup,   Cream  of.  No.   1, 

46. 
Soup,   Cream  of.  No.  2, 

46. 
Soup,    Tomato   and,    63. 
Stewed.  142. 
Sticks.    146. 

With  Brown  Sauce,  143. 
Cereal  Coffee,  1. 
Cereals  with  Cheese, 

Breakfast,  11. 
Ceylon  Pnnch,  6. 
Chards,  Swiss,   177. 
Charlotte,    Apple,    288. 
Cheese  and  Bread  Bolls, 

86. 
And  Sggs.  Creamed, 

306. 
And  Macaroni  Loaf, 

108. 
And  Olive  Salad.  198. 
And  Onion  on  Toast, 

213. 
And  Pimiento  Salad, 

196. 
And  Spinach  Roll,   84. 
And  Tomato  Toast.  214. 
And  Vegetable  Soup,  77. 
And    Whites    of    Kggs, 

311. 
Baked  Crackers  and, 

No.    1,   82. 
Baked  Crackers  and. 

No.   2.   83. 
Baked  Bggs  with,  302. 
Baked  Bggs  with,    307. 
Baked  Rice  with.  No.  1, 

94. 
Baked  Rice  with.  No.  2, 

94. 
Biscuits.  No.  1,   37. 
Biscuits,   No.   2,   38. 


Breakfast  Cereals  with, 
11. 

Brown  Betty  with,  276. 

Buttermilk,    218. 

Cakes,  37. 

Cakes.    297. 

Cakes.  Savory,  88. 

Cauliflower  with  Parme- 
san, 141. 

Celery  and,   143. 

Com  and.   81. 

Com  Meal  Mush  with, 
126. 

Croquettes.   89. 

Custard.   316. 

Damson,  282. 

Dressing.    206. 

Drops.   38. 

Dumplings.    88. 

Fingers.    88. 

Fondue.    87. 

Fondue,    308. 

Fried  Bread  with,  No. 

1.  86. 

Fried  Bread  with.  No. 

2,  85. 
Fritters,  Whites  of 

Eggs  and,   313. 
German  Dish  Baked,  91. 
Gingerbread,  No.  1,  297. 
Gingerbread,  No.  2,  298. 
Green  Com,  Tomato 

and,  121. 
Italian  Macaroni  and, 

108. 
Macaroni   with,    103. 
KoulUes  and,  120. 
Oatmeal   with,    12. 
Omelet,    No.    1,    305. 
Omelet,  No.   2,  305. 
Omelet,    No.    3,    305. 
On  Toast,  212. 
On  Wafers  Creamed, 

219. 
Onions  Baked  with. 

Grated,   157. 
Paste    for    Sandwiches, 

210. 
Peppers  and,  88. 
Potato  Puffs  with,   174. 
Potatoes  and,  171. 
Pudding.  No.  1,  90. 
Pudding,  No.   2.  91. 
Pudding,  Canadian.  86. 
Pudding.  Macaroni  and, 

104. 
Ramequins,   No.   1,   86. 
Ramequins,   No.   2,   87. 
Relish,    219. 
Rice  and.  No.  1,  93. 
Rice  and,  No.   2.   93. 
Rice  and.  No.  3,  94. 
Riced     Potatoes     with, 

164. 
Rissoles.   Semolina  and, 

123. 
Roast,  Nut  and,  84. 


342 


INDEX 


Roaat,  Pimento  and.  Si. 

Rolls,  83. 

Rolls,   Vetretable  and, 
85. 

Salad,    No.    1,    197. 

Salad,    No.    2,    197. 

Salad.    No.    3,    197- 

Salad   and    Freserres, 
198. 

Salad,  Apples  and,   195. 

Salad,  Tomato  and,  194. 

Sandwiches,     210. 

Sandwiches,    Toasted, 
210. 

Sauce,   No.    1,   187. 

Sauce,    No.   2,   1S7. 

Sauce,    No.    3,   187. 

Sauce,   No.   4,   187. 

Sauce,    Whites   of   TSgeB 
in,  312.  .\,     , 

Scallops,    308.  "^-'      < 

Scrambled  Egga  with, 
307. 

Souffle,   81. 

Souffle,    310. 

Bou'fflS,  Whites  of  Eggs 
and,    311. 

Souffle  with  Pastry,  311. 

Soup,    Milk   and,    7(. 

Straws,   No.    1,    38. 

Straws,   No.    2,    38. 

Straws,   No.   3,    39. 

Straws,  Macaroni,  109. 

Wafers,  218. 

With  Mush,  85. 

With   Salads,    19«. 
Cherries,  Stewed,   287. 
Cherry  Cake,   267. 

Pie,    223. 

Roll,    289. 

Roly-Poly,  290. 
Chestnut  Flonr  Sonp,    72. 

Patties,   112. 

Pie,  No  1,  112. 

Pie,   No.   2,  112. 

Puree,  116. 

Soup,   No.   1,   73. 

Soup,    No.    2,    73. 

Soup,  Cream  of,   73. 

Whip,    115. 
Ghestnnts,    Creamed,   113. 

Fricasseed,    114. 

Scalloped,  115. 

With  Bread  Sauce,  114. 

With      Tomato      Sauce, 
113. 
Chicken,    Baltimore,    324. 

Broiled,    323. 

Creamed,    323. 

Jellied,   323. 

Roast,   322. 

Scalloped,    323. 
Chickens,     Dresslnc     for 

Stnffinv,  322. 
ChlU  Sance,  220. 
Chocolate,  2. 

Blanc  Mange,  2S2. 


Filllngr,   300. 

Ice   Cream,   291. 

Milk   Shake,   3. 

Plain,  2. 

Syrup,  3. 

Viennese,    2. 
Chowder,  Coniy  79. 

Potato,    80. 

Washington,   79. 
Christnuu  Plom  Podding, 
No.    1,    248. 

Plum    Pudding,    No.    2, 
249. 

Plum   Pudding,    No.    3, 
249. 
Cinnamon  and  Milk,  4. 

Buns,    32. 
Clear  Sonp,  Stock  for,  44. 
Cobbler,  Peach,   225. 
Cocoa,  1. 

French.  1. 

Malted  Milk,  2.  ' 

Cocoannt  Blano  Hiuige, 
252. 

Biscuits,    319. 

Cakes,   319. 

Cream  Pie,  223. 

Dates,    283. 

Pudding,    Grated,    256. 

Sauce,   188. 
Cocktail,  Fruit,   269. 

Grapefruit,    269. 
ColTee,  Cereal,  1. 
Colcannon,  174. 
Cold   Slaw,    138. 
Combination   Salad,    191. 
Compote,   Melon,   280. 

Of  Fruit  with  Rice,  262. 

Of    Mixed    Fruits,    262. 

Orange,    284. 
Cones,   Almond,   318. 

Rice,    95. 
Conserve,   Cranberry,   288. 
Consomm£  with  Pei»s, 

Vegetable,    59. 
Cooked  Sultanas,  279. 
Cookies,   317. 
Com  and  Cheese,  81. 

Baked,  146. 

Bread,  19. 

Bread,    Apple,    24. 

Bread,  Beaten,  27. 

Bread,    Gluten   and,    26. 

Bread,    South    Carolina, 
24. 

Cake,    Golden,    21. 

Chowder,    79. 

Creamed,   146. 

Fritters,    146. 

On  the  Cob,  Boiled,  145. 

Pone,   29. 

Salad,  Tomato  and,  194. 

Scalloped,  146. 

Soup,   Cream  of.  No.  1, 
49. 

Soup,  Cream  of.  No.  2, 
4». 


Conmeal    Blseiilt«« 
Parched,  27. 

Cake,  Crisp,  2t. 
Cutlets,  126. 
Dumplings,   125. 
Mush,   11. 

Musb,    Buttermilk,    11, 
Mush,  Fried,  125. 
Mush  with  Cheese,  125. 
Mush  with  Fruit,   125. 
Rolls,  28. 
Cornstarch  Pnddlng,   251. 
Pudding,    Caramel,    251. 
Cottage    Cheese,    French, 
218 
Pudding,    240. 
Crackers,  and  Cheese, 
Baked,   No.    1,   82. 
And  Cheese,  Baked,  No, 
2,  83. 
Cranberry  Conaerre,  288. 
Dumpling,     Old     Fash- 
ioned,   287. 
Pudding,    Efteamed,   288. 
Sauce,  287. 
Sherbet,     294. 
Cream,  Asparagus  In,  128. 
Banana,   233. 
Banana      and      Orange, 

233. 
Bananas  and.  No.  1, 

268. 
Bananas  and.  No.  2, 

268. 
Biscuits,   30. 
Buttermilk,    186. 
Crisps,     28. 

Dessert,   Pineapple,  277. 
Devonshiie,    186. 
Dressing,   206. 
Dressing,  Sour,  206. 
French  Dressing,    206. 
Ginger   with,    259. 
Horseradish      Dressing, 

Buttermilk,   206. 
Mock  Whipped,    189. 
Mushrooms   in,   126. 
Pie,   Cocoanut,   223. 
Pie,   New   England  Ap- 
ple,   224. 
Pie,  Vanilla,   223. 
Pineapple,    291. 
Potatoes  in.   No.   1,   166. 
Potatoes  in,   No.   2,   166. 
Potatoes  in,  No.  3,  166. 
Salad  Dressing,  Butter- 
milk,  206. 
Sauce,  184. 

Sliced  Dasheen  in,  149. 
Sliced  Potatoes  in,   166. 
Spinach  with.  176. 
To  Whip,  189. 
Tomato  Sauce,  185. 
Young  Onions  in,  154. 
Cream   of   Almond  Sonp, 
68. 


INDEX 


343 


Aiparagus  Soup,  No.  1, 
48. 

ARparagus  Soup,  No.  1, 
48. 

Barley  Soup,  60. 

Bean  Soup,  S4. 

Browned     Onion     Soup, 
C9. 

Celery  Soup,  No.  1,  46. 

Celery  Soup,  No.  2,  46. 

Cbestnut,   73. 

Corn  Soiip,  No.  1,  4*. 

Com  Soup,  No.  ^,  it. 

Crecy  Soup,  66. 

DaBbeen   Soup,    68. 

Green  Pea  Soup,  S2. 

Lentil  Soup,  66. 

Liina  Bean   Soup,   64. 

Okra  Soup,   47. 

Onion  Soup,  70. 

Pea  Soup,    52. 

Potato  Soup,  No.  1,  T4. 

Potato  Soup,   No.    2.   74. 

Potato  Soup,  No.   3,   76. 

Rice   Soup,    No.    1,    47. 

Rice    Soup,    No.    2,    47. 

Scotch  Pea  Soup,    62. 

Split   Pea   Soup,    63. 

Squash  Soup,  78. 

Sweet  Potato  Soup,   75. 

Tomato  Soup,  71. 

Vegetable   Oyster  Soup, 
No.    1,    69. 

Vegetable   Oyster  Soup, 
No.  2,  69. 
Ciwuned  Bmasela  Sprouts, 
136. 

Cabbage,  137. 

Carrots.    138. 

Cauliflower,   139. 

Celery  on  Toast,   215. 

Cheese  and  Eggs,   306. 

Cheese  on  Wafers,   219. 

Chestnuts,    113. 

Chicken,  323. 

Corn,  146.. 

Egg  Plant,   160. 

Gluten  Mush,   12. 

Hominy,   13. 

Japanese  Crosnea,  147. 

Macaroni,  101. 

Okra  on  Toast,   216. 

Onions,    164. 

Parsnips,    159. 

Peas,    161. 

Rice,  Steamed  or,  12. 

Spinach  on  Toast,  215. 

Toast,   212. 

Turnips,   181. 
Creams,   Pistachio,   266. 
Crecy  Soap,  Creun  of,  66. 
Creole   Soup,    63. 
Cress    Sandwiches,    Mus- 
tard and,  211. 
Crisp  Com  Heal  Ctdie,  26. 
Crisps,  Cream,  28. 
Crognettes,    Bean,    134. 

Calory,  143. 


Cheese,  89. 

Hominy,  123. 

Spaghetti,    111. 
Crosncs,  Creamed  Japan- 
ese,  147. 
CroOtons,   217. 
Cnban  Sandwiches,  210. 
Cucumber  Jelly,  228. 

Sandwiches,  211.  • 

Baut«,   147. 
Cucumbers,  Jellied  To- 
mato and.  195. 

Stewed,  147. 

Stewed  with  Onions, 
148. 

BtulTed,    148. 

With    Tomatoes,    148. 
Cup  Pudding,  Almond, 

247. 
C?iird,   or   French   Cottoga 
Cheese,  Uncooked, 
218. 

To  make  Fresh,  221. 
Cnrrant  Pudding,  283. 
Cnrrled.    CaallHoiwer,    141. 

Macaroni,  101. 

Potatoes,    173. 

Vegetables,  No.   1,   116. 

Vegetables,  No.  2,  116. 

Vegetables    and    Maca- 
roni, 111. 

Whites   of   Eggs,    312. 
Curry,    Macaroni,    111. 

Rice    Boiled    for,    93. 
Costard,  Cheese,   316. 
Cutlets,   Banana,   123. 

Brazil    Nuts,    114. 

Bread,  126. 

Corn  Meal,  126. 

Macaroni,  100. 

Savory  Rice,   98. 

Spinach,  176. 

Walnut,  315. 
Catronnd,  Devonshire,  22. 


Damson    Cheese,    282. 

Dandelion,  149. 

Daaheen  In  Cream,  Sliced, 

149. 

Scalloped,    149. 

Soup,  Cream  of,  68. 
Date   and   Rice   Pudding, 
254. 

And  Walnut  Salad,  200. 

Marmalade,    283. 

Muffins,    33. 

Pudding,    282. 

Surprise,   252. 

Toast,   213. 
Dates,   Cocoannt,   283. 

Graham  Mush  with,  14. 

Pearl  Barley  with,  14. 
Delmonlco  Dressing:,  206. 
Dessert,  Banana,  269. 

Orange  Bread,   284. 

Pineapple   Cream,    277. 


SeroB  Cake,  316. 
Devonshire  Cream,  186. 

Cutround,   22. 
Dick,   Spotted,   246. 
Drawn  Butter  Sance,  185. 
Dressing,  Buttermilk 
Cream  Horseradish, 
206. 

Buttermilk  Cream 
Salad,  206. 

Catsup,   207. 

Cheese,    206. 

Cream,    206. 

Cream,   French,   206. 

Delmonico,    206. 

For    Stuffing    Chickens. 
322. 

French,    No.    1,    204. 

French,    No.    2,    204. 

French,    No.    3,    204. 

Garlic,  204. 

Parisian,    206. 

Ripe  Olive,   205. 

Sour  Cream,   206. 

Vinaigrette,  205. 
Dried  Beans,   132. 

Beans   Saute,    132. 

Fruit  Soup,   77. 
Drops,  Cheese,  38. 
Dry  Toast,  212. 
Dumpling,    Cheese,   88.  , 
Dumplings,    Com  Meal/ 
125. 

Old  Fashioned  Cran- 
berry, 287. 

E 

Egg  Patties,  304. 

Plant,    Baked,    150. 

Plant,  Broiled,  160. 

Plant,    Creamed,    150. 

Plant,   Fried,   149. 

Plant,    Stuffed,    160. 
ISggs,  Baked,   301. 

Creamed     Cheese     and, 
306. 

Bscalloped,    303. 

Golden  Hod,   302. 

B'ard  Boiled,   301. 

Soft  Boiled,  No.  I,  301. 

Soft  Boiled,  No.  2,  301. 

Spanish,   302. 

Steamed,    301. 

StufCed,  302. 

Swiss,   307. 

Tomato,  309. 

With  Cheese,  Baked, 
302. 

With  Cheese,  Baked, 
307. 

With  Cheese,  Scram- 
bled,   307. 
Endive  Salad,  Potato  and, 

199. 
English  Mushroom  Sance, 

185. 
EscaUoped   Eggs,    303. 


344 


INDEX 


Farcl,   Rice,    96. 

Tomato,    180. 
farina,    13. 
Tig  and  Apple  Tart,  265. 

And     Indian     Pudding, 
248. 

Pudding,   No.   1,   266. 

Pudding,    No.    2,    266. 
!Fl£r8,   Irish   Moss  IJeniaa- 
ade  with,  8. 

Steamed,    265. 

Stuffed,    265. 
FlUIne,    Chocolate,    300. 

Fruit,    300. 

Orange,    300. 
Fingers,   Cheese,   88. 
Flavored      Butter      Sand- 
wiches,   210. 
Flnir,   Orange,   286. 

Prune,    264. 

Rice  with  Prune,  264. 
Fondue,  Boiled,  87. 

Cheese,   8  7. 

Cheese,   308. 

Rice,    98. 
Fool,  Strawberry  or 
Gooseberry,     280. 
Forcemeat,    122. 

Pie,    Tomato    and,    117. 
Frapp6,  Pineapple,   294. 
French    Artichokes,    129. 

Cocoa,   1. 

Cottage  Cheese,   218. 

Dressing,   No.    1,   204. 

Dressing,   No.   2,   204. 

Dressing,   No.   3,   204. 

Dressing,  Cream,  206. 

Salad,    202. 
Fricasseed,  Chestnuts, 

114. 
Fried,    Bananas,   122. 

Bread  with  Cheese,  No. 

1,  85. 

Bread  with  Cheese,  No. 

2,  85. 

Corn  Meal  Mush,  126. 

Egg  Plant,  149. 

In    Batter,     Whites     of 
Bggs,  311. 

Jerusalem.     Artichokes, 
130. 

Oyster   Plant,    168. 

Paste,    39. 

Potatoes,  169. 

Hamequlns,    86. 

Tomatoes,  180. 

Whites   of  Eggs,    309. 
Fritters,    Apple,    272. 

Banana,   269. 

Bread  and  Butter,   243. 

Corn,   146. 

Orange,    285. 

Parsnip,    160. 

Whites  of  Eggs  and 
Cheese,    313. 
Frosting,  Boiled,   299. 


Royal,   299. 

Water,    299. 
Frozen  Peaches,    293. 
Frnlt  Biscuits,   31. 

Bran   Muffins,    36. 
Bread,  19. 
Calce,    Light,    296. 
Coolitall,   269. 
Cornmcal  Mush  with, 

126. 
Fining,    300. 
Gems,   26. 
Jelly,  231. 
Loaf,   23. 
Lemonade,  6. 
Macedolne,   263. 
Pudding,    Candled,    244. 
Pudding,  Nut  and,  241. 
Pudding,    Steamed,    240. 
Punch,  6. 
Salad,    196. 
Salploon  of,  234. 
Sandwiches,  208. 
Soup,    Dried,    77. 
Toast,    214. 
Wheatlet    Mush   with, 

10. 
With  Rloe,  Compote  of, 

262. 
Fmitade,  7. 
Fruits,  Compote  of  Mixed, 

262. 
Fan  Fndding,    257. 

G 

Garlic   Dressing,    204. 
Gateau,  Apple,  234. 
Gei€e,  Lemon,  292. 
Strawberry,    292. 
Gems,    Bran,    35. 

Fruit,   26. 
General  Directions  for  the 
Use       of       Vegetable 
Gelatine,    228. 
Genoese  Whites  of  F!ggs, 

304. 
German     Almond     Cake, 
318. 
Dish,  Baked  Cheese,  91. 
Lentil  ptock,  45. 
Potato  Salad,  199. 
Pudding,  267. 
Ginger    Pudding,    No.     1, 
257. 
Pudding,  No.  2,   258. 
Pudding,   Brown,    268. 
Pudding,    Green,    258. 
With  Cream,  2B9. 
Gingerbread,    Cheese,    No. 
1,    297. 
Cheese,  No.  2,  298. 
Glazed     Sweet     Potatoes, 

175. 
Gluten   and    Com    Bread, 
26. 
Mush,    12. 
Mush,  Creamed,  12. 


Onocchl^  Soman,   310. 

Gnochl,  122. 

Golden  Com  Cake,  21. 

Rod   Eggs,    302. 
Gooseberry    Fool,     Straw- 
berry   or,    280. 
,     Tart,   281. 
GoTemment    Sandwiches, 

209. 
Graham  Bread,  20. 
Bread,   Soft,   19. 
Hurry-Ups,    31. 
Mush  with  Dates,  14. 
Grape  Lemonade,   7. 
Nectar,   9. 

Salad,  Apple  and,  196. 
Sauce,   279. 
Sherbet,   294. 
Grapefruit  Cocktail,  269. 
Grated  Cocoannt  Pnd- 

dingr,    256. 
Gravy  for  Roast  Poultry, 

322. 
Green   Com,  Tomato  and 
Cheese,   121. 
Gages,    Stewed,    281. 
Ginger    Pudding,    258. 
Pea  Spup,   61. 
Peas,    160. 
Peas,  Asparagus  with, 

129. 
Peas,  Carrots  with,  139. 
Peas,    Macaroni   with, 
110. 
Greens,  Beet,  136. 


Hard  Boiled  Eggs,  301. 

Sauce,    188. 
Hash,   Potato  and  Onion, 
168. 
Potatoes      and      Celery, 

168. 
Rice,   94. 
Hashed   Brown   Potatoes, 
170. 
Turnips,  180. 
Hoe  Cake,  29. 
Hollandaise  Sauce,   186. 
Hominy  Creamed,  13. 
Croquettes,   123. 
Mush,   13. 
Honey  Apples,  271. 

Cakes,      Almond      and, 

296. 
Horseradish  Dressing, 
Buttermilk  Cream, 
206. 
Hot  Pot,  117. 

Slaw,   137. 
Hurry-TJps,   Graham,    3t 
Hydrated    Apricots,    270. 


Ice-Cream,  Bisque,   291. 
Chocolate,  291. 


INDEX 


345 


Pistachio,  291. 

Vanilla,    291. 

Yogurt.    292. 
Indian  Bread,  ZuSl,  26. 

Meal  Bread,   24. 

Pudding,  248. 

Fuffdlng,  Fig  and,  248. 

Trifle,    253. 
Irish  Moss  I,emonade,  8. 

Moss     Lemonade     with 
Figs,  8. 

Stew,   No.   1,  118. 

Stew,   No.    2,   118. 

Stew,   No.   3,   119. 

Stew,   No.   4,   119. 
Italian  Beets,  134. 

Macaroni,   No.   1,  101. 

Macaroni,   No.   2,  102. 

Macaroni     and     Cheese, 
108. 

Soup,  50. 


Jam,   Baspberry,   278. 
Japanese    Crosnes, 
Creamed,   147. 
Jellied  Apricots,  235. 

Chicken,   323. 

Peaches,   234. 

Tomato  and  Cucum- 
bers, 195. 

Tomato  Salad,   195. 
Jelly,  Apple,  No.   1,   274. 

Apple,   No.   2,   275. 

Aspic,   191. 

Barley,   14. 

Blackberry,    280. 

Buttermilk    or    Yogurt, 
229. 

Cucumber,   228. 

Fruit,    231. 

Lemon,   No.   1,   230. 

licmon.   No.   2,   230. 

Milk,    233. 

Mint,    232. 

Mulberry,   266. 

Nut,   232. 

Oat,   14. 

Orange,   231. 

Pineapple,   230. 

Raspberry,  279. 

Restorative,  260. 

Sandwiches,  209. 

Tomato,   229. 

Wine,    230. 
Jemsalem  Artichokes* 
129. 

Artichokes,  Fried,  130. 

Artichokes,    Scalloped, 
130. 
Johnny  C^e,  23. 
Jnlce,  Pineapple^  7. 
Jnllenne  Sonp,  61. 


Kale,  161. 


Kidney   Beans,    132. 
Beans,     Macaroni     and, 
109. 
Kohl-Babt,  BoUed,  151. 


I,ancashlre   Potato    Cake, 

21. 
I,ayer  Cake,  White.  318. 
Leek  Soup,  65. 
I«mon  Gel£e,  292. 

Jelly,   No.   1;   230. 

Jelly,   No.   2,  230. 

Pie,    227. 

Sauce,   190. 
Xemonade,  6. 

Bran,  6. 

Fruit,    6. 

Grape,   7. 

Irish   Moss,    8. 

Pineapple,   8. 

Soda  or  ApolUnarls,  7. 

With  Figs,   I;:lsh  Moss, 
8. 
Iientil   and   Potato   I,oat, 
152. 

Purge,   65. 

Soup,   65. 

Soup,  Cream  of,  66. 

Stock,   46. 

Stock,    German,   45. 
Lentils,   162. 

Baked,    162. 
Lettuce,  Boiled,  163. 

Peas  with,  162. 

Sandwiches,    208. 

Stewed,   163. 
Light   Fmit   Cake,    295. 
Lima  Bean   Sonp,   Cream 
of.    54. 

Beans,   132. 

Beans,  Baked,    133. 
Loaf,    Cheese    and   Maca- 
roni, 108. 

Fruit,   23. 

Lentil  and  Potato,   152. 
Log  Cabin  Padding,  239. 
Lyonnaise    Potatoes,    No. 
1,    168. 

Potatoes,    No.    2,    168. 


SEacaroni  and  Apple  Pud- 
ding, 274. 

And  Cheese,  Italian, 
108. 

And  Cheese,  Pudding, 
104. 

And  Kidney  Beans,  109. 

And  Tomato  Pudding, 
108. 

And  Tomato  Sauce,  No. 

1,  107. 

And  Tomato  Sauce,  No. 

2,  107. 


And  Tomato  Sauce,  No. 
3,  107. 

And   Tomatoes,    106. 

Au  Gratin,  109. 

Baked,   100. 

Boiled,    99. 

Cakes  or  Rissoles,  103. 

Cheese  Straws,  109. 

Creamed,   101. 

Curried,    101. 

Curried  Vegetables  and, 
111. 

Curry,    111. 

Cutlets,    100. 

Italian,   No.   1,   101. 

Italian,   No.    2,    102. 

Loaf,  Cheese  and,  108. 

Neapolitan,    102. 

Pudding,  110. 

Savory,  106. 

Scallops,    No.    1,    106. 

Scallops,  No.   2,   106. 

Soup,    50. 

Stew,   Celery  and,  144. 

Turnovers,   100. 

"With  Green  Peas,  110. 

With   Cheese,    103. 
Macedolne,   Fmit,   263. 

Salad,  No.  1,  192. 

Salad,  No.   2,  192. 
Hattre  d'BStel  Batter, 

188. 
Malted  MUk  Cocoa,  2. 

Milk  with  Wine,  5.' 
Manhattan  Soap,  62. 
Maple  Apple,   271. 

Marguerites,    259. 

Sauce,   189. 
Marguerites,  Maple,  259. 
Marmalade,  286. 

Date,   283. 

Pudding,    No.    1,    286. 

Pudding,    No.    2,    287. 

Sandwiches,  209. 

Tartlets,   287. 
Mashed  Potatoes,  164. 

Sumjner  Squash,   177. 

Turnips,   181. 
Melon   Compote,    280. 
ItLertngaa,   Orange,    284. 
Mexlcitlne,  Bice  h  la,  98. 
Military  Pudding,   237. 
Milk,  Almond,   3. 

And  Cheese  Soup,  76. 

Bread,   16. 

Cinnamon  and,  4. 

Jelly,    233. 

Rice,   3. 

Rice,   253. 

Rum  and,  4. 

Sago,   269. 

Shake,  Chocolate,  3. 

Sherbet,   293. 

Sherry  Brandy  and,  4. 

Stewed  Cabbage  In,  137. 
Mince  Meat,  No.    1,   226. 

Meat,  No.  2,  226. 

Fie,   226. 


346 


INDEX 


Iflaeel  Fetoton,   ITO. 
Mint  Jelly,   232. 
Mixed  Ifnt  Piir£e,  25S. 
Hock   AnKel   Food   Cake, 

317. 

Beef  Rissoles,  89. 

Bisque  Soup,  72. 

Whipped  Cream,  189. 
MoUusee  Fie,   227. 
Mold,  Apple,  276. 

Banana,    231. 

Kushroom  and  Rice,  95. 

Orangre,  231. 

Beniollna,    259. 
Molds,  Rice  and  Almond, 
254. 

Rice  Whole  in,  251. 
Moonahlne,    232. 
Muffins,    33. 

Blueberry,    33. 

Bran,  No.   J,  3S. 

Bran,   No.  2,  36. 

Bran,    Trult,    36. 

Date,   33. 

Raised,   34. 

Rice,  34. 
Mnlberry  Jell^,   260. 
Mnlllgatawny  Sonp,   49. 
Mash,  Bnttmnilk  Corm- 
meal,    11. 

Cheese  with,  85. 

Cornmeal,    11. 

Creamed  Qluten,  12. 

Fried  Corn   Meal,   126. 

Gluten,   12. 

Hominy,  IS. 

Oatmeal,  10. 

Rolled    Oats,    10. 

With  Cheese,  Cornmeal, 
126. 

With  Dates,  Oraham, 
14. 

With  Fruit,  Cornmeal, 
125. 

With  Fruit  Wheatlet, 
10. 
Hoshroom  and  Rice 
Mold,  96. 

Pie,  119. 

Sauce,     English,     185. 

Soup,  Oatmeal  and,   79. 
Mnshrooms,   Bi^iled,    126. 

In    Cream,    126. 

Scalloped,    127. 

Under  Glass,  127 
Mustard  and  Cress  Sand- 
wlchee,    211. 


Neapolitan  Macaroni,  103, 

Nectar,  Grape,  9. 

Nenfchatel  Sance,  187. 

Nevr  XnKland  Apple 
Cream  Pie,  224. 

Normandy  Pippins,  Stew- 
ed, 272. 


Pudding,  27S. 
NonllleB  and  Cheese,  120. 
Not    and    Cheese    Koast, 
84. 

And  Fruit  Pudding,  241. 

And  Potato  Patties,  113. 

Bread,    20. 

Buns,   32. 

Cutlets,     BraKil,     114. 

Jelly,    232. 

Paste    for    SandVlches, 
211. 

Pudding,    No.    1,    314. 

Pudding,    No.    2,    314. 

Pudding,    No.    3,    314. 

Puffs,  Aerated,  23. 

Puree,    256. 

Puree,    Mixed,    256. 

Rissoles,  Rice  and,  313. 

Sandwiches,  208. 


Oat  Jelly,  14. 

Wafers,    37. 
Oaten  Cakes,  Scotch,  21. 
Oatmeal    and    Mnshroem 
Sonp,   79. 

Mush,  10. 
With  Cheese,  12. 
Okni,    153. 

And  Tomatoes,   153. 
On  Toast,  Creamed,  216. 
Soup,    64. 

Soup,    Cream    of,    47. 
OUto  Dressing,  Ripe,  205. 
Salad,    Cheese  and,    198. 
OllTce,    Stuffed    Tomatoce 

with,  178. 
Omelet,    Cheese,     No.     1, 
305. 
Cheese,  No.  2,  305. 
Cheese,  No.   3,   306. 
Savory,    304. 
Sweet,    306. 
With  Tomatoes,  305. 
With  Vegetables,    305. 
Onmlbns   Podding,    246. 
Onion  Hash,  Potato  and, 
168. 
Oif    Toast,    Cheese    and, 

213. 
Pie,  Potato  and.  No.  ,1, 

172. 
Pie,   Potato  and.  No.   2, 

172. 
Pudding,  Bread  and, 

166. 
Pudding,  Potato  and, 

173. 
Soup,    70. 

Soup,    Cream   of,    70. 
Soup,  Cream  of.  Brown- 
ed, 69. 
Onions  and  Tomatoes,  168. 
Au  Qratin,  167. 


Baked,  166. 

Balced  with  Orated 
Cheese,  157, 

Bailed,    164. 

Browned  Spanish,  166. 

Creamed,    154. 

Cucumbers  Stewed 
with,    148. 

In  Cream,  Toung,  164v 

On    Toast,    216. 

Rice  and,  97. 

Sage  and,  166. 

Scalloped,    164. 

Btewed,   166. 

Stuffed,  165. 
Orance  Bread  Doaeert, 
284. 

Compote,     284. 

Cream,  Banana  and, 
233. 

Filling,    300. 

Flufr,    286. 

Fritters,   286. 

Jelly,    231. 

Meringue,  284. 

Mold,   231. 

Pudding,  284. 

Salad,    193. 

Water  Ice,  293. 
Oranges,  Casserole  of, 

283. 
Orangeade,   No,    1,    T. 

No.    2,    7. 
Oyster  Plant,  Fried,  168. 
Oysters,    Scalloped    Tefe- 
table,  168. 

Vegetable,   168, 


Palestine  Soap,  60. 
Pancakes,    22. 

Buckwheat,    22. 
Parched    Com  Meal   BL»- 

cults,    27. 
Parisian   Dressing,    206. 
Parker  House  Rolls,   17. 
Parmesan,  Potatoes  with, 

172. 
Parsnip    Fritters,    160. 
Parsnips,   159. 

Creamed,  169. 

Scalloped,  160. 
Paste     for    Boiled    Pud- 
dings,  41. 

Fried,    39. 

Puff  for  Tarts,   39. 

Puff,    Old  Recipe,    40. 
Pastry,  Almond,  317. 

Cheese      Souffle      with, 
311. 

Plain,  222. 

Strips,   224. 
Patties,    Chestnut,    113. 

Egg,    304. 

Nut  and  Potato,  US. 


INDEX 


347 


Pea  Pmfeb  BpUt,  5S. 

Soup,    61. 

Soup,  Cream  of,  B2. 

Soup,   Cream  of  Qreen, 

62. 
Soup,  Cream  of  Scotch, 

52. 
Soup,    Cream    of    Split, 

63. 
Soup,  Green,   51. 
Feach  Cobbler,   225. 
Sherbet,  293. 
Trine,    278. 
Peaches  and  Cream  with 
Rice  Biscuit,    278. 
Frozen,   293.  ^ 

Jellied.    234. 
Feannt  Batter  Sand- 

wlcben,   209. 
Pearl  Barlejr  "with  I>atea, 

14. 
Peai«,  Baked,  280. 
Peas  and  Celery,  161. 
And  Celery  Salad,  203. 
And   Potatoes,    161. 
Creamed,  161. 
Green,   160. 
Puree   of,    162. 
Rice  with,  97. 
Sugar,   162. 
Sugared    Carrots    with, 

139. 
With    lettuce,    162. 
Peppers  and  Cheese,  88. 

Stufted,    162. 
PhUadelphla  Salad,   198. 
PiccaUlU,   221. 
Pie,   Cherry,   223. 

Chestnut,   No.  1,   112. 
Chestnut,   No.    2,   112. 
Cocoanut    Cream.    223. 
Lemon,    227. 
Mince,   226. 
Molasses,   22T. 
Mushroom,    119. 
New      England      Apple 

Cream,  224. 
Potato   and   Onion,   No. 

1,  172. 

Potato   and  Onion,   No. 

2,  172. 
Pumpkin,   222. 
Tomato,    116. 
Tomato  and  Forcemeat, 

117. 
Tomato  and  Potato, 

117. 
Vanilla   Cream,    223. 
Walnut,  124. 
Pilaf,   Turkish,    92. 
Plmemto  and  Cheese 

Boast,  84. 
Plmlento  Salad,  Cheese 

and,  196. 
Ptaieapple  Cream,  291. 
Cream  Dessert,    277. 
Frapp6,  294. 


Jelly,  2S0. 
Juice,    7. 
Lemonade,  8. 
Tapioca   Pudding,   261, 
Pippins  Stewed,  Nor- 

mandy,  272. 
Pistachio  Creams,  266; 

Ice  Cream,  291. 
Plain  Pastry,   222. 
Plaza  Tomatoes,  121. 
Plum  Pnddlns,  Christmas, 

No.    1,    248. 

No.    2,    249. 

No.   3.   249. 
Poached  Whites  of  Hgf, 

Plain,   309. 
Polenta,  124. 

Sauce  for,    124. 
Polish  Salad,  220. 
Pone,    Com,    29. 
Pop-OTers,   28. 
Pot,  Hot,  117. 
Potato  and  EndlTS  8aMl 

199. 
And  Onion  Hash,  168. 
And  Onion   Fie,    No.    1, 

172. 
And  Onion  Pie,   No.   2, 

172. 
And  Onion  Pudding, 

173. 
Balls,  166. 
Border,    170. 
Cake,  Lancashire,  21. 
Cakes,    164. 
Chowder,   80. 
Loaf,  Lentil  and,  162. 
Fatties,   Nut  and,   113. 
Fie,  Tomato  and,  117. 
Puffs,  167. 

Puffs,    Bohemian,    173. 
Puffs  with  Cheese,   174. 
Salad,    German,    199. 
Soup,  Brown,    74. 
Soup,  Cream  of.   No.  1, 

74. 
Soup,   Cream  of.  No.   2, 

74. 
Soup,  Cream  of.   No.  3, 

75. 
Potatoes  and  Celery  Hash, 

168. 
And  Cheese,  171, 
And    Whites    of    Eggs, 

Baked.  308. 
Au  Gratin,  166. 
Baked,  166. 
Boiled,    163. 
Browned,  169. 
Curried,   173. 
Fried,   169. 
Hashed   Brown,    170. 
In  Cream,  No.  1,  166. 
In   Cream,   No.   2,   166. 
In  Cream,  No.  3,'  166. 
In  Cream,  Sliced,  165. 
Lyonnalse,   No.   1,   168. 


Lyonnalse,  Mo.   i,  168> 
Mashed,   164. 
Minced,  170. 
Peas  and,   161. 
Furie  of  Cabbage  and, 

137. 
Bleed,  164. 
Saratoga,   167. 
Savory,  No.  1,  169, 
Savory,  No.    2,   169. 
Scalloped,  170. 
Steamed,   163. 
Stuffed,  No.  1.  171. 
Stuffed,  No.   2,  171. 
Swiss,   167. 
With  Cheese,  Bleed, 

164. 
With    Parmesan,    172. 
Preserres,    Cheese    Salad 

and,    198. 
Prans  Pluff;  264. 

Fluff,  Rice  with.  264. 
Salad,   193. 
Toast,    214. 
Prunes,  Casserole  of,  263. 

Stewed,   ^63. 
Podding,  Admiral,   237. 
X  la  Frangaise,  Bread, 

244. 
A    la    Frangalse,    Bice, 

254. 
Almond,    246. 
Almond  and  Bread,  247. 
Almond  and  Raisin,  247. 
Almond  Cup,  247. 
Apple,  276. 
Banana,    268. 
Bread,   244. 

Bread  and  Onion,  166. 
Brown,   Ginger,   258. 
Canadian    Cheese,    86. 
Candied  Fruit,   244. 
Caramel  Cornstarch, 

261. 
Carrot,    No.    1,    246. 
Carrot,    No.    2,    245. 
Cheese,  No.  1,   90. 
Cheese,  No.   2,   91. 
'Christmas  Plum,  No.  1. 

248. 
Christmas  Plum,  No.  2, 

249. 
Christmas  Plum,  No.  3, 

249. 
Cornstarch,   251. 
Cottage,    240. 
Currant,   283. 
Date,   282. 
Date  and  Rice,  261. 
Fig,  No.  1,  266. 
Fig.   No.   2,   266. 
Fig  and  Indian,    248, 
Fun,  257. 
German,   257. 
Ginger,  No.  1,  267. 
Ginger,    No.    2,    258. 
Grated   Cocoanut^    266. 


348 


INDEX 


Green  Oineer,  258. 
Indian,  243. 
IiOE  Cabin,  239. 
Macaroni,  110. 
Macaroni     and     Apple, 

274. 
Macaroni    and    Cheese, 

104. 
Macaroni    and    Tomato, 

108. 
Marmalade,  No.   1,   286. 
Marmalade,   No.   2,   287. 
Military,    237. 
I^ormandy,    273. 
Nut,    No.    1,    314. 
Nut,    No.    2,    314. 
Nut,    No.    3,    314. 
Nut  and  Fruit,  241. 
Omnibus,    246. 
Orange,  284. 
Pineapple  Tapioca,  261. 
Potato  and   Onion,   173. 
Queen's,    239. 
Raisin,  238. 
Rice,   253. 

Rice  and  Apple,   274. 
Roly  Poly,  246. 
Saero,  243. 
Satisfaction,    243. 
Savory,    90. 
Savory,    Rice,    96. 
Snowdon,    246. 
St,   James,    240. 
Steamed  Cranberry,  288. 
Steamed  Fruit,    240. 
Steamed    Sultana,    237. 
Strawberry,   281. 
Sweet  Potato,  238. 
Tapioca,    260. 
Tapioca       and       Apple; 

260. 
Valentia,  238. 
Vermicelli,   No.  1,   241. 
Vermicelli,   No.   2,   242. 
Vevey,   239. 
Wine,  242. 
With  Burnt  Sugar, 

Rice,   242. 
PnddinsB,    Castle,    261. 

Paste    for    Boiled,    41. 
Puff  for  Tarts,  Paste,  39. 

Old  Recipe,   Paste,   40. 
Puffs,  Aerated  Nnt,  23. 
Bohemian  Potato,  173. 
Potato,    167. 
With   Cheese,   Potato, 

174. 
Pnmpkin  Pie,  222. 
Punch,   Ceylon,   6. 
Fruit,   6. 
Singapore,    5. 
Puree,  Chestnut,  115. 
Lentils,    65. 
Mixed   Nut,    256. 
Nut,    256. 

Of   Cabbage  and   Pota- 
toes, 137. 
Of  Celerlac,  146. 


Of  Peas,  162. 
Seakale,   62. 
Split  Pea,  63. 
Turnip,  181. 


Queen's  FjiAdSng,  239. 

Tartlets,   281. 
Quince    Sauce,    279. 


Baised  Mufflns,  34. 
Raisin  Puddlne,  238. 

Pudding,    Almond    and, 
247. 
Bamegnlns,  Cheese,  No.  1, 
86. 

Cheese,   No.   2,   87. 

Fried,   86. 
Bareblt,  Buck,  306. 

Tomato,   121. 

Welsh,  No.   1,  81. 

Welsh.  No.   2,   82. 

Welsh,  No.   3,   82. 
Baspberry  Jam,    278. 

Jelly,    279. 

Sauce,   190. 

Shrub,    8. 
Belish,  Celery,  220. 

Cheese,    219. 
Bestorative  Jelly,   260. 
Bice  k  la  Mexlcabie,  98. 

And  Almond  Molds, 
2S4. 

And  Apple  Pudding, 
274. 

And  Cheese,.  No.  1,  93. 

And  Cheese,  No.  2,  93. 

And  Cheese,  No.  3,  94. 

And  Cheese  Baked,  No. 

1,  94. 

And  Cheese  Baked,  No. 

2,  94. 

And  Nut  Rissoles,  313. 

And  Onions,   97. 

And  Tomatoes,   97. 

Balls,    265. 

Biscuit,    Peaches  and 
Cream  with,    278. 

Blanc  Mange,    255. 

Boiled,    91. 

Boiled    for   Curry,    93. 

Boiled,  Japanese  Meth- 
od, 12. 

Cakes,      Almond      and, 
316. 

Compote  of  Fruit  with, 
262. 

Cones,   95. 

Cutlets,   Savory,  98. 

Farci,    96. 

Fondue,   98. 


E!ash,   94. 

Milk,   3. 

Milk,    263. 

Mold,  Mushroom  and, 
96. 

Muffins,  34. 

Pudding,  263. 

Pudding  k  la  FraUQaise, 
254. 

Pudding,  Date  and,  254, 

Pudding,    Savory,    96. 

Pudding  with  Burnt 
Sugar,    242. 

Rissoles,    97. 

Rissoles,    Savory,    99. 

Savory,   96. 

Soup,   Cream  of.   No,   1, 
47, 

Soup,   Cream  of.  No,   2, 
47. 

Steamed  or  Creamed, 
92, 

TImbales,  99, 

Tomatoes  with,    130, 

Water,   No.   1,  4. 

Water,  No,   2,  4, 

Whole   in   Molds,    254, 

With    Peas,    97.- 

With   Prune  Fluff,    264. 
Bleed  Potatoes,   164. 

Potatoes     with     Cheese, 
164, 
Blpe  Olive  Dressing;,   206. 
Blsotto,    92, 
Blssoles,  89, 

Macaroni  Cakes  or,  103. 

Mock  Beef,  89. 

Rice,     97. 

Rice  with  Nut,   313. 

Savory  Rice,   99. 

Semolina     and     Cheese, 
123. 
Boast,  Boston,  84. 

Chicken,  322, 

Nut    and    Cheese,    84, 

Pimento      and     Cheese, 
84, 

Poultry,  Gravy  for,  322. 
Boasted  Tomatoes,  179. 
BoU,  Apple,  289, 

Cheese  and  Spinach,  84. 

Cherry,    289, 
Boiled.  Oats,  Apples  with, 
273, 

Oats  Mush,  10, 
Bolls,  Cheese,  83. 

Cheese  and  Bread,  86, 

Corn  Meal,   28, 

Parker  House,   17, 

Vegetable    and    Cheese, 
86. 
Eoly  Poly,  Cherry,  290. 

Pudding,   245. 
Boman  Onocchl,   310. 
Boqnefort  Salad,  198. 
Bonx    Brown    and    White 

lor    Thickening,    42. 
Broxbniy  Cakes,  296. 


INDEX 


349 


Boral  FrostingTt    29S. 
Rnm  and  Milk.  4. 
Bosks,    Apsley,    216. 
Knssian  Beet  Soup,   67. 

Toast,   214. 


S 

Sage  and  Onions,  156. 
Sago  Milk,  259. 

Pudding,     243. 
Salad,  Alllisator  Fear,  195. 

And   Preserves,    Cheese, 
198. 

Apple  and  Celery,  195. 

Apple  and  Cheese,  195. 

Apple  and  Grape,  196. 

Asparagus,    201. 

Banana,    199. 

Banana  and  Walnut, 
200. 

Beans,    131. 

Beet,    203. 

Berkeley,   200. 

Bulgarian,  197. 

Cauliflower,   199. 

Celery,    201. 

Celery  and  Tomato,  201. 

Cheese,  No.  1,  197. 

Cheese,  No.  2,  197. 

Cheese,  No.  3,  197. 

Cheese  and  Olive,   198. 

Cheese  and  Pimento, 
196. 

Combination,    191. 

Date  and  Walnut,  200. 

French,  202. 

Fruit,   196.     ' 

German    Potato,    199. 

In  Tomato  Cupsf  194. 

Jellied   Tomato,    195. 

Macedoine,  No.  1,   192. 

Macedoine,  No.   2,  192. 

Orange,    193. 

Peas  and  Celery,  203. 

Philadelphia,  198. 

Polish,  220. 

Potato  and  Endive,  199. 

Prune,    193. 

Roquefort,  198. 

String  Bean,  192. 

Summer,  201. 

Tomato,   193. 

Tomato    and    Cauliflow- 
er, IftS. 

Tomato  and  Celery,  194. 

Tomato  and  Cheese, 
194. 

Tomato  and  Corn,  194. 

Waldorf,   193. 
Salads,  Cheese  wltb,  196. 
Sally  Iiimn,  34. 
Salploon  of  Fruit,  234. 
Salted   Almonds,    219. 
Sandwiches,    Boston 
Brown  Bread,  208. 


Bread  and  Butter,   208. 
Cheese,    210. 
Cheese  Paste,   210. 
Cuban,  210. 
Cucumber,    211. 
Flavored  Butter,    210. 
Fruit,    208. 
Government,   209. 
Jelly,   209. 
Lettuce,    208. 
Marmalade,    209. 
Mustard  and  Cress,  211. 
Nut,    208. 

Nut  Paste   (or,    211. 
Peanut  Butter,   209. 
Spanish,   209. 
Toasted,   209. 
Toasted,    Cheese,    210. 
Tomato,    209. 
Saratoga,    Potatoes,    167. 
Satisfaction   Pudding,  243. 
Sauce,  Bechamel,  184. 
Bread,    188. 
Brown,   183. 
Celery,    184. 
Cheese,  No.  1,  187. 
Cheese,  No.  2,  187. 
Cheese,  No.  3,  187. 
Cheese,  No.  4,  187. 
Chestnuts  with  Tomato, 

113. 
Chili,   220. 
Cocoanut,  188. 
Cranberry,    287. 
Cream,   184. 
Cream  Tomato,   185. 
Drawn  Butter,   185. 
Bnglish  Mushroom,  185. 
For  Polenta,    124. 
For  Vegetables,    183. 
Grape,    279. 
Hard,    188. 
Hollandaise,    186. 
Lemon,   190. 
Macaroni    and    Tomato, 

No.    1,    107. 
Macaroni    and    Tomato, 

No.    2,    107. 
Macaroni    and    Tomato, 

No.    3,    107. 
Maple,  189. 
Neufchatel,  187. 
Quince,    279. 
Raspberry,    190. 
Thin  White,  183. 
Tomato,  185. 
Vanilla,    189. 
WTiite,  183.       ^ 
White   of   Egg  In   Sou- 

blse,    309. 
White       of       Egg       in 

Cheese,   312. 
Wine,  190. 
6ant£,    Brusselg    Sprouts, 

135. 
Cucumber,   147. 
Dried  Beans,  132. 


Savory  Beet,   220. 

Cauliflower,  142. 

rCheese   Cakes,    88. 

Macaroni,  106, 

Omelet,  304. 

Potatoes,  No.  1,  169. 

Potatoes,  No.  2,  169. 

Pudding,    90. 

Rice,  96. 

Rice    Cutlets,    98. 

Rice  Pudding,   96. 

Rice   Rissoles,    99. 

Semolina,  123. 
Scalloped  Cauliflower,  140. 

Chestnuts,    115. 

Chicken,   323. 

Corn,    146. 

Dasheen,    149. 

Jerusalem.      Artichokes, 
130. 

Mushrooms,  127. 

Onions,    154. 

Parsnips,    160. 

Potatoes,    170. 

Sea  Kale,  151. 

Tomatoes,    179. 

Vegetable    Oysters,    168. 
Scallops,    Cheese,    308. 

Macaroni,   No.   1,   106. 

Macaroni,    No.    2,    106. 

Of      Whites      of      Eggs, 
310. 
Scarlet  Bunner  Beans, 

131. 
Scones,  No.  1,  36. 

No.    2,    36. 

Scotch,    36. 

Soda,   36. 
Scotch  Bran  Brose,   13. 

Broth,   61. 

Oaten    Cakes,    21. 

Scones.    36. 
Scrambled  Eggs  with 
Cheese,   307. 

Whites   of   Eggs,    312. 
Sea  Kale,    151. 

PurSe,    62. 

Scalloped,  151. 

Soup,   62. 
SeU-Kising   Bread,    17. 
Semolina  and  Cheese  lOs- 
seles,  123. 

Balls,  122. 

Mold,  259. 

Savory,  123. 

Soup,   62. 
Sherbet,   Cranberry,    294. 
'    "  Grape,  294. 

Milk,   293. 

Peach,  293. 
Sherry     or     Brandy     and 

MUk,     4. 
Shortcake,    Apricot,    316. 

Strawberry,    290. 
Shrub,  Raspberry,  8. 
Singapore  Punch,  S. 
Slaw,  Cold,  138. 

Hot,   137. 


350 


INDEX 


Sliced  Dasheen  In  Cream, 

149. 
Potatoes  In  Cream,  165> 
Tomatoes,  177. 
Snowdon  Fuddlns,   244. 
Snowllake  Toaat,  313. 
Soda    or    ApolUnarls 

liemonaide,'  7. 

Sconea,    36. 
Boft  Boiled  ECKS.  No.    1, 

301. 
Boiled  Bsgs,  No,  2,  301. 
Oraham  Bread,  19. 
8«ablae  Sattce,  Whites  of 

EBCS  In,   309. 
Beufflt,  Cheese,  81. 
Cheese,   310. 
Whites     of     Eggs     and 

Cheese,    311. 
With  Pastry,  Cheese, 

311. 
Boop,  Almond,  (7. 
Artichoke,    64. 
Asparagus,   48. 
Barley,   60. 
Bean,  54. 
Beet,    66. 

Brown  Potato,   74. 
Butter  Bean,    65, 
Cabbage,    64. 
Carrot,    No.    1,    55. 
Carrot,    No.    2,    66. 
Cauliflower,   No.   1,   57. 
Cauliflower,   No.   2,   67. 
Celery,    45. 
Cheese    and    Vegetable, 

77. 
Chestnut,  No.  1,  73. 
Chestnut,  No.  2,  73. 
Chestnut    Flour,     72. 
Cream  of  Almond,   68. 
Cream   of   Asparagus, 

No.    1.    48. 
Cream   ot  Asparagus^ 

No.    2,    48. 
Cream  of  Barley,   60. 
Cream  of  Bean,     64. 
Cream,  of  Browned 

Onion,   69. 
Cream  of  Celery,  No.  1, 

46. 
Cream  of  Celery,  No.  2, 

46. 
Cream  of  Chestnut,   73. 
Cream   of   Corn,    No.    1, 

49. 
Cream  of  Corn,   No.    2, 

49. 
Cream    of    Creoy,    66. 
Cream    of    Dasheen,    68, 
Cream  of  Green  Pea, 

52. 
Cream   of   Lentil,    66. 
Cream    of    Lima    Bean, 

64. 
Cream  of  Okra,  47. 
Cream  of  Onion,  70. 
(;<ream  of  Pea,  63. 


Cream  of  Potato,  No.  1, 

74. 
Cream  ot  Potato,  No.  .2, 

74. 
Cream  ot  Potato,  No,  3, 

76. 
Cream,  of  Rice,    No.    1, 

47. 
Cream   of   Rice,    No.    2, 

47. 
Cream    of    Scotch    Pea, 

52. 
Cream  of  Split  Pea,  53. 
Cream    of    Squash,    78. 
Cream  of  Sweet  Potato, 

76. 
Cream  of  Tomato,  71. 
Cream       ot      Vegetable 

Oyster,  No.  1,  69. 
Cream       of      Vegetable 

Oyster,  No.  2,  69. 
Creole,   63. 
Dried  Fruit,  77. 
Oreen  Pea,  SI. 
Italian,   60. 
Julienne,  61. 
Leek,  66. 
Lentil,  65. 
Macaroni,  60. 
Manhattan,   62. 
Milk  and  Cheese,    76. 
Mock  Bisque,   72. 
Mulligatawny,    49. 
Oatmeal       and      Mush- 
room,   79. 
Okra,   64. 
Onion,    70. 
Palestine,    60. 
Pea,   51. 

Russian  Beet,  67. 
Seakale,    62. 
Semolina,   62. 
Spinach,   No.    1,   66, 
Spinach,   No.    2,    66. 
Spinach,   No.    3,   67. 
Swiss,  77. 
Tapioca,   78. 
Thick  Vegetable,   68. 
Tomato,    No.    1,    70. 
Tomato,    No.    2,    71. 
Tomato  and  Barley,  61. 
Tomato  and  Celery,  63. 
Vegetable,   57. 
Vermicelli,    76. 
Westover,  78. 
White,   76. 

White   Vegetable,    68. 
Sonr  Cream  Dressing,  206. 
Sonth        Carolina        Com 

Bread,    24. 
Spaghetti  Croquettes,  111. 
Spanish  ICggs,  302. 

Onions    Browned,    155. 
Sandwiches,    209. 
Bpinaeh,    Boiled,    176. 
Cooked   without  Water, 

176. 
Cutlets,  176. 


On  tosMt,  Creamed,  21E. 

Roll,  Cheese  and,  ti. 

Soup.   No.   1,   66. 

Soup,    No.    2,    56. 

Soup,    No.    3,    57. 

With  Cream,  176. 
Spilt  Pea  Fnrie,  63. 

Pea    Soup,     Cream    of« 
53. 
Spotted  DlclE,  246. 
Squash,  177. 

Mashed  Summer,  177. 

Soup,    Cream   of,    78. 
St.  James  Fuddlns,   240. 
Stars,    Bethlehem,    320. 
Steamed    Cranberry    Pod- 
ding,  288. 

Eggs,   301. 

Figs,    266. 

Fruit  Pudding,  240. 

Or  Creamed  Rice,  92. 

Potatoes,  163. 

Sultana    Pudding,    237. 
Sterilize  Bran,  To,  13. 
Bteir,    Celery    and   maca- 
roni,  144. 

Irish,   No.   1,  118. 

Irish,   No.   2,   118. 

Irish,   No.   3,   119. 

Irish,   No.   4,   119. 
Stewed    Apricots,    270. 

Bananas,    268. 

Cabbage  in  Milk,  137. 

Celery,    142. 

Cherries,   267. 

Cucumbers,    147. 

Green  Gages,   281. 

Lettuce,    153. 

Normandy  Pippins,  272. 

Onions,    156. 

Prunes,    263. 

Tomatoes,   177. 

With     Onions,     Cucum- 
bers, 148. 
sticks,  Celery,  146. 
Stock,  Barley,   44. 

Butter  Bean,  44. 

For   Clear   Soup,    44. 

German  Lentil,  45. 

Lentil,   46. 
Btrairberry  GeMe,  292. 

Or  Gooseberry  Fool,  280. 

Pudding,  281. 

Shortcake,   290. 
Straws,  Cheese,  No.  1,  88, 

Cheese,  No.  2,  38. 

Cheese,  No.  3,  39. 

Macaroni    Cheese,    109. 
String  Bean  Salad,  192. 

Beans,  131. 

Beans,   To  Blanch,  130. 
Strips,  Pastry,   224. 
Stuffed    CnciuuberB,    149. 

Sgg  Plant,  160. 

Dggs,    302. 

Figs,   266. 

Onions,   165. 

Peppers,  162. 


INDEX 


3SI 


Potetoes.    Mo.    1,   171. 
Potatoes,    No.    2,    171. 
Tomatoes,    No.    1,    178. 
Tomatoes,    No.    2,    178. 
Tomatoes    with    OllveSk 

178. 
Vegetable   Marrow,   No. 

1,  181. 

Vegetable   Marrow,   No. 

2,  182. 

Staffing:   Chickens,  Dress- 
ing for,  322. 
Succotash,  147. 
Sngar  Peas,   162. 
Sidtana  Pnddlns,  Steam- 
ed,   237. 
Snitanas,    Cooked,    279. 
Suminer  Salad,  201. 
-    Squash,    Mashed,    17T. 
Surprise  Balls,  164. 

Date,  252. 
Sweet  Omelet,  308. 

Potato  Pudding,  238. 

Potato  Soup,  Cream  of; 
75. 

Potatoes,  Baked,   174. 

Potatoes,  Boiled,  174. 

Potatoes,  Browned,  175. 

Potatoes,    Candled,    175. 

Potatoes,    Glazed,    175. 
Swiss   Charda,   177. 

Eggs,    307. 

Potatoes,   167. 

Boup,   77. 
6;n^l,  ChoGolatSk  S, 


Tapioca  and  Apple  Fad- 
ing,  260. 

And    Tomatoes^    120, 

Pudding,  260. 

Pudding,    Pineapple, 
261. 

Boup,  78. 
Tart,  AKtIe;  224. 

Apple,  272. 

Fig  and  Apple,   265. 

Gooseberry,    281. 

Treacle,    225. 
Tartlets,  Marmalade^  iST. 

Queen's,   281. 

Vegetable  Marrow,    225. 
Tarts,  Pair  Paste  for,  39. 
Thin  White  Sauce^  183, 
Third  Bread,   25. 
Timbales,   Bice,   99. 
To  Whip  Cream,  189. 
Toast,  Baked  Tomato  on, 
213. 

Cheese    and    Onion    on, 
213. 

Cheese  and  Tomato, 
214. 

Cheese   on,    212. 

Creamed,  212. 

Creamed  Celery  on,  21Si 

Creamed  Okra  on,  tlt> 


Creamed    Spinach     on, 

216. 
Date,  2ia. 
Dry,    212. 
Fruit,   214. 
Onions  on,    21E. 
Prune,   214. 
Russian,   214. 
Bnowflake,   313. 
Toasted  Cheese  Sand- 
wiches,  210. 
Sandwiches,  209. 
Tomato    and    Cauliflower 

Salad,  193. 
And  Celery  Salad,  194. 
And  Celery  Soup,   63. 
And  Cheese,  Green 

Corn,  121. 
And  Cheese  Salad,  194. 
And  Com  Salad,  194. 
And  Cucumbers,  Jellied, 

195. 
And  Forcemeat  Pie. 

117. 
And  Potato  Pie,   117. 
Bisque,    72. 
Cauliflower  and,  140. 
Cups,   Salad  In,   194. 
Eggs,    309. 
Farol,   180. 
Jelly,  229. 

On  Toast,  Baked,   213, 
Pie,   116. 
Pudding,  Macaroni  and. 

108. 
Rarebit,   121. 
Salad,   193. 

Salad,   Celery  and,   201. 
Salad,    Jellied,    195, 
Sandwiches,  209. 
Sauce,  185. 
Sauce,    Chestnuts    with, 

113. 
Sauce,  Cream,  185. 
Sauce,  Macaroni  and. 

No.    1.    107. 
Sauce.  Macaroni  and. 

No.    2,    107. 
Sauce.  Macaroni  and. 

No.    3,    107. 
Soup,    No.    1,    70. 
Soup,    No.    2,    71. 
Boup,   Cream,  of,   71. 
Toast,  Cheese  and,   21i. 
Tomatoee,  Baked,  179. 
Broiled,  178. 
Cucumbers  with,  148. 
Fried,    180. 
In  Batter.  180. 
In    Casseroles,    179. 
Macaroni   and,    106. 
CHcra  and,   153. 
Omelet  with,  305. 
Onions  and,  158. 
Flasa,   121. 
Rice  and.  97.  / 

Roasted,  179. 
ScaUoped.  17*. 


Sliced,  177. 

Stewed,  177. 

Stuffed,  No.   1,   178. 

Stuffed,   No.   2,   178. 

Tapioca  and,  120. 

Whites  of  Eggs  and, 
311. 

With  Olives  Stuffed, 
178. 

With  Rice,  180. 
Treacle  Tart,  225. 
Trifle  Indian,   253. 

Peach,    278. 
Turkish  Fllai;   92. 
Turnip  Pur<e,  181. 
Turnips  Creamed,  181, 

Hashed,   180. 

Mashed,   181. 
Turnovers,  Macanml,  lOOw 


Taleotia   Puddlnc.    238. 
Tanllla  Biscuits,  30. 
Cream  Pie,  223. 
Ice  Cream,  291. 
Sauce,   189. 
Tcvetable      and      Cheese 

Bolls,  86. 
Bouillon,    59. 
Con8omm€  with  Peas, 

69. 
Marrow    &    I'Bspagnole, 

182. 
Marrow  Stuffed,   No.   1, 

181. 
Marrow  Stuffed,   No.   2, 

182. 
Marrow  Tartlets,  225. 
Oyster  Soup,  Cream  ot 

No.   1,   69. 
Oyster  Soup,  Cream  of, 

No.   2,   69. 
Oysters,   158. 
Oysters,   Scalloped,   168, 
Soup,  57. 
Soup,  Thick,  68. 
Soup,  White.   68. 
Tesetablec  and  Macaroni, 

Curried.    111. 
Curried,  No.  1.  116. 
Curried,  No.  2.  116. 
Omelet  with.  306. 
Sauce  for,    183. 
Whites    of    Eggs    and. 

309. 
TermlcelU    Podding,    No. 

1,    241. 
Pudding,  No.  2,  242. 
Soup,     76. 
Tever  Pudding,  239. 
Tlenaese  Chocolate,  a. 
Tiaatsrette  Dresslnc,  20B. 


Waien,   Almimd,   128^ 
Cheese,  llg. 


352 


INDEX 


Craamed      Cheese      on, 
219. 

Oat,   37. 
Waldorf  Salad,   193. 
Walnut  Balls,  311. 

Cutlets,    316. 

Pie,    124. 

Salad,  Banana  and,  200. 

Salad,  Date  and,  200. 
Washington  Chowder,   79. 
Water,  Barley,  6. 

Frosting,   299. 

Ice,  Orange,  293. 

Rice,    No.    1,    4. 

Rice,    No.    2,    4. 
Webh  Rarebit,  No.  1,  81. 

Rarebit,   No.   2,   82. 

Rarebit,  No.  3,  82. 
WestoVer  Sonp,   78. 
Wheatlet  Mnsh  with 

Fmlt,  10. 
Whip,  Chestnut,  115. 


White  Bread.  16. 

Layer  Cake,  318. 
Sauce,   183. 
Sauce,   Thin,   183. 
Soup,   76. 
Whites  of  Eggs  A  la  Xo- 

mato,    312. 
A    I'ltalienne,    306. 
And      Cheese      Fritters, 

313. 
And  Cheese  Souffle,  311. 
And   Tomatoes,    311. 
And   Vegetables,    309. 
Baked     Potatoes     and, 

308. 
Cheese  an4>  311. 
Curried,  312. 
Fn  B&t§,  304. 
Fried,    309. 

Fried   in  Batter,    311. 
Genoese,   304. 
In  Cheese   Sauce,   312. 


In  Sameiiuln  Cams, 
303. 

In  Soublse  Sauce,   309. 

Plain,    Poached,    309. 

Scallops  of,   310. 

Scrambled,    312. 

Sur  le  Plat,  312. 
Whole  Wheat  Bread,   18. 
Wine  Jelly,  230. 

Malted  Milk,   with,  5. 

Pudding,  242. 

Sauce,   190. 


Toinirt  Ice  Cream,  2S 

Jelly,      Buttermilk 
229. 
TorliBhlre  Cake,  296. 


Znfil  Indian  Bread,  2S. 


DIETARY  STANDARDS 

DIETARY  STANDARD  FOR  MAN  IN  FULL  VIGOR 
AT  MODERATE  MUSCULAR  WORK 


Condition  considered 

Protein 

Energy- 

Grams 

Calories 

Food  as  purchased 

"5 

3,800 

Food  eaten 

ICO 

3.500 

Food  digested 

95 

3,200 

ESTIMATED  AMOUNT  OF  MINERAL  MATTER 
REQUIRED  PER  MAN  PER  DAY 

Grams  Grams 

Phosphoric  acidCPjOs)     3  to  4    Calcium  oxid      0.7      to  i.o 

Sulphuric  acid  (SO3)        2  to  3.5  Magnesium  oxid  0.3      to  0.5 

Potassium  oxid  2  to  3     Iron  0.006  to  o.ois 

Sodium  oxid  4  to  6    Chlorin  6.        to  8. 


Chart  Id.   Dietary  Standards. 

U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 
OfBce  of  Experiment  Stations 
'     A.  C.  True,  Director. 


Revised  Editiob 

Prepared  by 

C.  F.  LANGWORTHY 

Expert  in  charge  of  Nutrition  Investigatioiu 


FUNCTIONS  AND  USES  OF  FOOD 


CONSTITUENTS  OF  FOOD 


FOOD  AS 

PURCHASED 

CONTAINS 


fWater       rp^otein 
EDIBLE  PORTION    L^,^^^,  J  Fats 

Flesh  of  meat,  yolk  ^^"*"^"*'i  Carbohydrates 
and  white  of  eggs,  [Mineral  Matter  or  Asb 

wheat  flour,  etc. 

REFUSE 

Bones,  entrails, 
shells,  bran,  etc. 


USE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  BODY 


PROTEIN Builds  and  repairs  tissue' 

White  (albumen)  of  eggs, 

curd  (casein)  of  milk, 

'ean  meat,  gluten  of  wheat,  etc. 


—Are  stored  as  fat 


FATS 

Fat  of  meat,  butter, 
olive  oil,  oils  of  corn 
and  wheat,  etc. 
CARBOHYDRATES — 

Sugar,  starch,  etc.  / 

MINERAL  MATTER  OR  ASH— Shares  in  forming  bone. 
Phosphates  of  lime,  assists  in  digestion,  etc. 

potash,  soda,  etc. 


All  serve  as  fuel  to 
yield  energy  in  the 
forms  of  heat  and 
muscular  power. 


■Are  transformed  into  fat 


Food  is  that  which,  taken  into  the  body,  buUds  tissue  or  yields  energy. 


Chart  14.  Composition,  Functions,  and  Uses  of  Food. 


Revised  EditioD 


U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture 

Office  of  Experiment  Stations 

A.  C.  True,  Director. 


Prepared  by 
C.  F.  LANGWORTHY 
Expert  in  charge  of  Nutrition  Investigation& 


(giam^Tffl  ©InlEE<iE 


Water:  3^.E 


Fat:  357 
AshiSB 


Protein  .-25.9 


hydrates  ••2. T- 


Fuel    value: 


1885    EALDRIE5   PER   PQUIMD 


EDIBLE  PORTION 


Protein:  18.6 


Ash:  1.0 


Fuel 

VALUE: 


109O  CALORIES 
PER  POUND 


Watsn  2.1 

~ >  - '  '  ..rrr-n 

-R^otein:29.3 
Fat-.46.5 


Carbo- 
h^drgites:17o1 


Ash:5J 


Fuel    value: 


2735  CALDRIEB  PETf   PDUND 


EDIBLE  PORTION 


Water:  53.1 


A3h:1.0 


Fat:28.3 


Fuel    value: 


1475  CALORIES 
PER  POUND 


Fat:83.a 


Water:13.0 


Ash-.aO 


Fuel    value 


Proteirt:1.0 


34-05  EALDRIE5  PER    PDUND 


Protein:9A  Fat:67.4- 


Water:18.8 


3030   CALDFILB     PER    POUWD 


DESICCATED 

Water:  3.5 


PfdfSn763 

Carbo- 
hydrates: 31*5 


Fat:5M 


Fuel    value: 


3025  CALORIES  PER   PQUND 


(gKl© 

EDIBLE  PORTION 


Water: 


Protein:  16. 


UEL      VALUE: 


1535  CALORIES 
PER  POUND 


Ash:tO 


Water;  25 


MALIMPT 


Fuel    value: 


3180ealdwes 

PER    FDliWD 


R-oteIn:  16.6 


Carbo- 


h^drate.s:16 


^KI@IL1  I§© 


WatQr:73.7/j:  = 


protein  ;H.8 
Fat:10.5- 

Ash:i.a 

Fuel  value  d  f 

whole.  egg: 


695  EALDRIE5 
PER    FDUND 


iPEAcaiyJiP 


Waten  8.2 


Carbohydrates; 


R-otein:25.8     F^38.6 

Fuel    value: 


£4-85cALDRlE5 
PER   PDUWD 


Fat  Rsh 


W  at  en  73. . 
Protein:  18.^' 

Fuel    value 


n 


620  CALORIES  PER  POUND 


ater:12.6 

_    MM! 


fat:1.8 
Carbohyc[ratesi59»6  \      \        .   ^  ^ 

;'-<===M\sh:3.5 

Fuel    value: 


i 


CALDRIEE   PET?    PQUIMD 


Protein:  2.2 


Fat:  0.1 


Ash:  1.0 


Carbohydrates:  18  A  "^Water:  78.3 

Fuel    value 


375 


CALDRIE5  PER    PDUIMD 


wmr 


Fat:  1.0  W^t^  .iS'-s^te 


f\  Wal^.  35.3 
FV-otein:9.2 


Ji,  f ' 


Ash:1.1 


Carbo- 
hydrates: 53.1 


Fuel 


VALUE: 


1180CALDRIE5 
PER    PDUIMB 


^@mm  mmm 


Protein:  7.9 


Carbo- 
hyclfates:4-6,3 


Ash;  2.2 


Fuel 


VALUE: 


ll  7  5  CALDR1E5 
PER    PDUIMD 


.E  WEHEififlr  IgMH^JI) 


Water: 


R:otein:9.7 


Carbo;: 
hydrates:+9./ 


Fat:0.9 


Ash:  1.3 


TUEL      VALUE: 


1  IOealdries 
per  pduimd 


MIkNI  m\ 
ED38LE  PORTION 


Water:  75.3  11 


Carbojiydrates:  22.0 


II 


/  FV-otein:1. 
Fat:0.6 
Ash:  0.8 


UEL 
VALUE 


PER    POUND  . 


EDIBLE  PORTION 


ProtelD:2,6 


Fat:  3. 3 


Fuel    value- '"f";^ 


,^.a-^^J^&,^  hydrjtes:7e.l 


1,560  EAL0H!1^5 
PER    PDUIMD 


Ash:  3.4 


EDIBLE  PORTION 


FVotein:4,3 


Carbo  hydrates:  7^.  2 


Waters  18.8 
Fat:  0.3 


^— Ash:£«4- 


Fuel 

VALUE: 


1435nALDRlE5 

PER  PQUiyii 


