ALBERT H. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 








^-'^i-;-:- =--' = -- 


1 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 






CORNELL UNIVERSJTY LIBRARY 





3 1924 086 710 831 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924086710831 



iJtlJi 



CHUKCH COOK BOOK 



PUBLISHED FOR THE BENEFIT 

OF CHURCH WORK AND 

CHARITY 




WIXiMAMS & Wir,KIXS COMPANY 
BAliTIMOBE, IT. S. A. 



Copyright, 1908, by 
WILLIAMS & WILKINS COMPANY 



FBEBS or 
Wn,UAM8 Ic WILKINS COHPANT 
BALTIUORB 



PREFACE 

The need of a cook book, which has the merit of embracing 
terse, easily understood receipts, has been emphasized. With 
this object in view The Chxjbch Cook Book is placed before the 
pubUc for its approval. In its pages will be found numerous 
valuable receipts which have never hitherto appeared in print. 
Receipts from other sources which appealed to the compiler of 
being of special service to the users of cook books have been 
inserted, and acknowledges obligation for some of these to Mrs. 
Sarah Tyson Rorer, Miss Ellen L. Duff, the Baltimore Sun and 
Harper's Bazar. 

A Classified Alphabetical Index makes an easy reference to any 
receipt in the book. 

The Publishers. 



CONTENTS 

Beverages 155 

Bread 73 

Butter and milk 93 

Cakes 123 

Candy 139 

Cereals 70 

Classified alphabetical index 174 

Cooking fruits 101 

Desserts 104 

Eggs 97 

Fish 15 

Freezing 148 

Meats 24 

Miscellaneous 171 

Pickles 168 

Poultry and game 42 

Preserves and jellies 162 

Salads 63 

Sandwiches 90 

Soups 7 

Vegetables 48 



SOUPS 

Fresh, canned or dried vegetables may be used for soups. 
Dried peas, beans and lentils have a higher nutritive value than 
meats or the best cereals so far as composition is concerned, 
being especially rich in proteid and starch. Vegetable proteid, 
however, on account of the cellulose which accompanies it, is 
less readily digested than the proteid of meat. The tough skins 
of dried peas and beans, etc . , are wholy indigestible. The proteid 
of peas, beans and lentils is called vegetable casein from its 
resemblance in many respects to the casein of milk. 

Peas, beans and lentils have a small proportion of fat, therefore 
it is usual to add it in some form. They should be soaked m cold 
water several hours, and long cooking is needed to soften the 
cellulose and develop the flavor. A small quantity of cooking 
soda (bicarbonate of soda) added while cooking will soften them 
more quickly, but too much wiU injure the flavor. Vegetable 
soups are thickened with flour to prevent the separation of the 
thicker and thinner parts of the soup. 

Agate or porcelain kettles should be used in making soup. In 
meat soups the salt should be added at first to aid in extracting 
the juices'in meat and cause the scvia to rise. Allow 1 quart 
of cold water and a teaspoonful of salt for each pound of meat. 

Split Pea Soup 

J cup split peas 1 tablespopnful flour 

1 quart cold water 1 teaspoonful salt 
J small onion pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 or 2 cups hot water or milk " 

Pick over and wash the peas. Soak 8 to 12 hours or over night 
in cold water. Drain off the water, and cook peas and onion in 



8 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

1 quart of water until soft. Press through a strainer, and add 
butter and flour cooked together. Add seasoning, and thin with 
hot water or milk, and reheat. Peas wiU not soften in salted 
water, so salt should not be added until they are cooked. A 
small piece of fat salt pork or a ham-bone may be cooked with 
the peas, and if so, the butter may be omitted. Lentil soup may 
be made as directed for split pea soup. 

Baked Bean Soup 

2 cups baked beans 1 tablespoonful butter 

3 cups water 1 tablespoonful flour 

i onion salt and pepper to taste 

IJ cups tomatoes 

Cook beans, onion and tomatoes in the water 15 minutes. 

Mash and strain, and add remaining ingredients as directed in 

split pea soup. 

Potato Soup 

IJ cup mashed potatoes. i teaspoonful salt 

2 cups milk | teaspoonful celery salt 

1 cup water sprinkling white pepper 

i small onion 1 teaspoonful finely chopped pars- 

2 tablespoonfuls butter ley 
2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Freshly boiled or cold mashed potatoes may be used. Add 
onion to milk and scald; add the mashed potatoes to the milk. 
Melt the butter, add the flour and a little of the potato mixture; 
boil 5 minutes, combine with remaining potato mixture, add sea- 
soning. Strain, reheat and add parsley. Serve with croutons 
or crisp crackers. 

Bean Soup 

Soak 1 pint of beans over night in J gallon water, in which 
they are to be cooked. In the morning put on the stove, adding 
water as needed, with 1 pound of middling. Boil until beans 



SOUPS 9 

are very soft, then remove the bacon, and press the beans through 
a sieve. Add salt and thicken with a tablespoonful flour. 

Gumbo Soup 

Cut up a spring chicken in small pieces, also a small slice of 
ham. Put into a pot with a heaping spoonful of lard; wait until 
the lard is hot enough to fry these. When fried add gumbo cut in 
small pieces, add 1 or 2 large tomatoes and a spoonful of flour. 
Now cover the whole with water and let it simmer over a slow 
fire. Season the whole highly. Salt to the taste. Should be 
eaten with boiled rice, served in the soup plates. 

Chicken Soup 

Cut up 1 old chicken ; put on in 2 quarts of cold water and 
salt. Let this boil J hoiu*; then push back and simmer until 
chicken is tender ; then take off the soup and strain, and if there 
is much grease, skim it. Put back over the fire with ^ cup of rice 
and a teaspoonf ul salt, and cook until the rice is soft. Serve with 
^croutons. 

Egg Noodles for Soup 

Beat up 2 eggs light, add 1 tablespoonfiil of melted butter, 
and as much flour — into which 1 teaspoonful of baking powder 
has been mixed — as will make a stiff dough. First roll out 
thin, then roU up tightly, cut in very fine slices and throw into 
boiling soup. 

Clam Soup 

To 1 quart of clams and a pint of their liquor add 3 pints 
of water, a small teaspoonful of butter, a few whole peppers, 
i slice of bread, and salt. Cover it close. Stew for 1 hour, 
then strain, thicken with a little flour; just before serving stir in 
J pint of cream. Serve with croutons. 



10 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Crab Soup 

meat of 6 hard crabs 2 small tablespoonfuls of flour to 

1 quart fresh milk taste 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter salt and pepper to taste 

Put crabs and milk in kettle, stir in butter and flour, which has 
been previously worked smoothly together and boil 15 minutes. 

Terrapin Soup 

Four quarts of water to 4 terrapins. First scald them, peel 
skin, take them out of shell, and cut them up for stewing. Put 
in water, and when it boils clear, put in 2 onions, a slice of bacon, 
i teaspoonfiil of allspice; a scant ^ teaspoonful of mace, 1 
teaspoonful of pepper, a little thyme and parsley. Brown a little 
flour, and stir in 1 tablespoonful of butter just before serving. 
After it is in the tureen add the yolks of 2 eggs in butter; wine 
if you use it. 

Eggs for Terrapin or Turtle Soup 

Beat the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs in a mortar, make into 
balls, using the yolk of a raw egg to form a paste. Drop in bqiling 
water to harden for 2 minutes. 

Bisque of Lobster 

meat of one boiled lobster, or J cup rolled cracker 

a can of preserved lobster 4 tablespoonfuls of butter 
1 quart of miUc pepper (cayenne) and salt 

1 quart of boiling water 

Pound the coral and other soft parts of the lobster to a paste, 
and simmer 5 minutes in the boiling water; then rub through a 
coUander back into the water. Cut the rest of the lobster meat 
into dice, and put into the saucepan with the cracker crumbs. 
Pour the red water over them and heat to a boil ; then add pepper, 



SOUPS 11 

salt and butter. Simmer, covered, ^ an hour, taking care it 
does not scorch. Heat the milk, with a pinch of soda in another 
vessel, and after the lobster is in the tureen, pour this in, boiling 
hot. Pass shced lemon with it. 

Oyster Soup 

1 quart of oysters 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 quart rich milk 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 teacupful of hot water pepper and salt 

Strain aU the liquor from the oysters, add water ; heat ; when 

near boiling add the seasoning, flour (mixed in water), then the 

oysters. Cook about 5 minutes from the time they begin to 

simmer, until they curl at the edges. Stir in the butter ; cook 1 

minute and pour into the tureen. Stir in the boiling mUk and 

send to the table. 

Bouillon 

a large beef shin 1 small onion 

2J gallons water 3 stalks of celery or use celery seed 

2 bunches soup herbs to taste 

Boil all down to half the quantity; add salt, dash of cayenne, 
strain, and when cold skim off the grease. When to be used, 
put on the fire with shells and whites of 3 eggs, and boil imtil 
clear. Color with caramel and pour through a flaimel bag. 

Caramel 

Take a large spoonful of brown sugar, put it in a frying pan 
over the fire; let it melt, add about ^ pint of water, and let it 
boil. One large spoonful will brown soup. 

Potato Soup 

Cut 4 large potatoes into small pieces. Boil in 3 pints water, 
with salt and pepper to taste. When the potatoes are done, add 



12 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful of flour 
made smooth in milk, and 1 tablespoonful of butter. Boil 2 or 
3 minutes, add 1 pint of fresh mUk, let come to the boiling point, 
and serve. 

Com Soup 

r Ten ears com, grated, put in the kettle with the cobs and 1 
quart of salted water, boil for 10 minutes. At the end of that 
time remove cobs, add 1 quart of sweet milk, smaU Imnp of butter, 
season with salt and pepper and cook 10 minutes longer. Serve 
with browned crackers. 

Tomato Bisque 

1 can of tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed 

2 cups of boiling milk, with i tea^ in 

spoonful of soda stirred in 1 pepper and salt 

tablespoonful sugar handful of dry bread crumbs 

1 tablespoonful of flour 1 cup boiling water 

Put tomatoes over fire, boil ^ hour, strain and rub through 
a colander. Boil milk in another kettle, stir in butter and flour, 
and after one boU, keep hot. Add pepper, salt, sugar and soda 
to the tomatoes; simmer 5 minutes, pour into tureen, stir in 
crumbs, and lastly the thickened milk. Serve at once. 

Cream of Celery 

4 heads of celery 1 cup of milk 

1 pint of water or 1 pint of soup pepper and salt 

stock 1 teaspoonful of flour wet in cold 

1 tablespoonful of butter milk 

Scrape and cut celery in 1-inch lengths. Cook 15 minutes in 
hot water; drain and add stock; stew gently until celery is soft- 
put through a colander into the soup; season and return to fire. 



SOUPS 13 

Boil up; pour into the tureen; add cup of boiling mUk thickened 
with the flour. 

Beef Stock for Soups 

Put a shin of beef in IJ gallon water; simmer aU day; do not 
add seasoning ; cool ; remove fat . Use for either soups or gravies . 

Okra Soup 

Take a piece of shin; if you have it, a ham bone. Pepper and 
salt the shin and dredge it with flour. Put it with 2 onions and 
a bunch of parsley in the kettle, add 1 gallon of water and boil 
until meat is tender. Strain, return to the kettle, add 1 dozen 
peeled tomatoes and J peck of green okra, cut in slices, and 3 
ears of corn cut carefully from the cob. 

Duchess Soup 

1 quart milk 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 sliced carrot 1 tablespoonful grated cheese 

1 sliced onion 2 eggs, yolks only 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 blade mace 

Put milk, carrot, onion and mace to cook in a double boiler; 
cream butter and flour, over which slowly strain the hot milk; 
add cheese, and stew 3 minutes. Beat the eggs well, and pour 
hot soup over them. Season with salt and pepper. Serve at 
once. 

Pepper Pot 

3i pounds beef 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 onion 1 quart potatoes (cut small) 

small piece of lady-finger pepper 1 tablespoonful sweet marjoram 

Put the beef in the pot, second cut from the shoulder, trim 
off all fat and boil about 3 hours, with the onion and pepper. 
About i hour before serving remove meat, cut in small pieces 



14 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

and put about 1 pint back, with the potatotes. Just before 
serving add some dumplings. Boil 1 minute. 

Dumplings 

1 lump butter size of an egg J teaspoonful baking powder 

1 lump lard size of an egg pinch salt 

2i tablespoonfuls flour 

Moisten with a little milk or water; take small pieces, roll on 
board with your hands, in rolls a little thicker than a lead pencil, 
and cut in small pieces. 



FISH 

To Boil Rock Fish 

Take a good-sized fish, clean, season with salt and pepper and 
wrap in cheese-cloth. Haye ready a large kettle containing boil- 
ing water, place the fish in the water, and keep very hot, but do 
not boil. Cook until the flesh will separate easily from the bones. 
Lift the cloth carefully, drain, and place fish on hot platter. 
The skin may be removed. Serve hot with a sauce. 

Sauce for Boiled Fish 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 pint of water in which fish was 

2 tablespoonfuls flour boiled 

1 egg i teaspoonful salt 

Mix butter and flour, add water and egg; let boil until a thick 
cream, stirring until smooth. Garnish with hard boiled egg, 
sliced, and a few sprigs of parsley. 

Creamed Fish 

Separate bones and skin from cooked fish. Heat the fish in 
thick white sauce. Serve plain or on toast. 

White Sauce 

2 cups milk 3 tablespoonfuls flour 
2 tablespoonfuls butter i teaspoonful salt 

white pepper to taste 

Scald the milk; melt butter in a saucepan, and stir in the floiu-; 
add the hot milk, one-third at a time, each time stirring 
thoroughly untU smooth; before adding more milk let it boil 



16 THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 

1 minute, stirring constantly; add salt and pepper, and serve 
hot. If not used at once, cover to keep scum from forming. 

Baked Shad 

Take off the head, and, without cutting open, draw and clean 
the fish. Stuff with dry stale bread crumbs, into which has been 
mixed 1 onion, cut thin and fried in butter; 2 ounces butter, 
salt, pepper, and 1 teaspoonful each of nutmeg, parsley, and the 
well beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Salt and pepper the fish, put in a 
baking pan with a little water, and bake tmtil done. 

Scalloped 

Break into small pieces 1 can of salmon, or 2 cups of cooked 
fish; moisten with thin white sauce or tomato sauce, into the 
fish mix 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. Stir all together, 
cover top with bread crumbs and small pieces of butter. Bake 
until crumbs are brown. 

Fish in Aspic 

Add a tablespoonful lemon juice or vinegar to a large cup of 
hot water, heat with salt, pepper, a slice of onion, and a sprig of 
parsley; dissolve a tablespoonful of gelatine in cold water, and 
pour the hot water over, strain and pour on 2 cupfuls of cold 
cooked fish ; mix well, put into a mold, and set on ice ; turn out on 
a cold dish and surround with lemon slices and parsley. Lamb 
may be prepared in the same way, adding a little mint if you 

choose. Copyright, Harper's Bazar. 

Fish Hash 

Combine equal parts of mashed potatoes and cooked fish, 
season to taste, and brown in smoking hot fat. 



FISH 17 

Butter Dressing for Fish 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter dash of cayenne 

J teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley 

i saltspoon pepper 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

Put the butter in a bowl, rub until creamy; add salt, pepper 
and parsley; then the lemon juice very slowly. The parsley 
may be omitted. 

Broiled Fish 

SmaU fish may be cleaned and broiled whole, or they may be 
split down the back, the halves being separated or not, as pre- 
ferred. Large fish are cut into slices for broiling. 

For broiling, all fish should be wiped as dry as possible, and 
sprinkled with salt and pepper. Lean fish should be rubbed 
with melted butter or other fat, and the broiler should be well 
greased. 

The general rules for broiling fish are similar to those for broil- 
ing meat. The outside should be seared as quickly as possible 
by holding the broiler close to the heat, and the inside should 
then be cooked more slowly by holding the broiler farther away. 
Fish should be broUed on the flesh side first, then turned and 
cooked on the skin side long enough to make it crisp. Slices of 
fish should be turned frequently while broiling, and all fish 
should be well done, and served as soon as cooked. 

Salmon Loaf 

1 can of salmon, chopped fine 3 eggs 

} cup fresh bread crumbs salt, butter and pepper to taste 

Mix all together, put in a pan, and set the pan in the oven in 
pan of hot water to bake. Bake i hour. 



18 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Creamed Cod Fish 
One box of shredded cod fish, soak over night. Boil J hour, 
pour off water, add 1 pint of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 

1 egg, 1 tablespoonful of flour rubbed smooth in the eggs. Let 
boil until it thickens. 

Cod Fish Balls 

One box shredded codfish, add twice the quantity of mashed 
potatoes, prepared with 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 cup of 
cream or milk, 1 saltspoonful of pepper; beat very light, mold 
into balls, and fry in hot lard until a light brown. 

Sauce for Fish 
Reduce the yolks of 2 hard boiled eggs to a smooth paste; add 

2 tablespoonfuls of olive oil, 1 saltspoonful each of mustard and 
pepper, vinegar to taste. 

Lobster Cutlets 

2 cupfuls of lobster, chopped fine 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

1 cupful of milk or cream 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter yolks of 2 eggs 

Scald the milk, rub the butter and flour together until smooth, 

and stir in the hot mUk. Add the yolks of the eggs, beat Ught, 

take from the fire, and pour over the lobster, mixing gently. 

Season with salt, cayenne pepper and parsley. When cool 

form into cutlets, cover with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in 

hot lard. 

Lobster a la Newburg 

1 quart of lobster 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 pint of cream pinch of cayenne pepper 

3 egg yolks 

Put cream and beaten yolks together in a saucepan and cook 
until it thickens. Put in the lobster, and let it become thoroughly 
heated. Season and serve. 



PISH 19 

Salmon Croquettes 

1 can salmon yOlks of 2 hard-boiled eggs 

2 raw eggs J cup of bread crumbs 

1 tablespoonful of butter 

Mince the fish; work in the butter, sHghtly warmed, the 
"powdered" yolks, raw eggs, and finally the crumbs. Form into 
pyramid shaped croquettes. Roll in dish covered thickly with 
flour and fry in hot fat. 

Deviled Crabs 

12 fresh, heavy crabs 1 tablespoonful of butter 

yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs J tablespoonful of nutmeg 

i pint of cream 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour salt and cayenne pepper to taste 

After removing spongy fingers and stomachs, pick out meat and 
fat from shell and meat from claws. Put on cream to boU, rub 
butter and flour together and add to boiling cream ; stir and cook 
2 minutes ; add crab meat, yolks of eggs mashed fine, parsley and 
spices. Clean the shells, fill with the mixture, brush over with 
beaten eggs. Cover with white soft bread crumbs, and brown in 
a quick oven. 

Soft Shell Crabs 

To clean : cut off the heads, remove the stomach, raise the ends 
of the shell and remove the spongy fingers; take off the pocket- 
lap on under shell; have ready a pan in which are melted equal 
quantitiesof lard and butter; put in the crabs, shell uppermost; 
pepper and salt well, turn 3 or 4 times until the crabs are a soft 
brown. Garnish with parsley and lemon cut into quarters. Pass 
sauce of tartare in a separate dish. 

Sauce a la Tartare 

Three teaspoonfuls of French mustard; yolk of 1 egg; ^ cup 
of olive oil ; J bottle of capers ; pepper to taste, and a little onion 
sliced fine. 



20 THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 

Stewed Oysters 

1 quart of oysters salt very slightly and pepper to 

1 cup of milk taste 

butter size of an egg 

Drain the liquor from the oysters into a saucepan and heat to a 
boU. Put on the milk in another vessel, set within a pan of boil- 
ing water. When the liquor in the sauce pan boils, put in oysters, 
stew until the edges ruffle. Stir in butter, dissolve, pour in 
tureen, add the boiling milk, and serve. 

Oyster Pates 

1 quart of oysters, cut fine with kitchen scissors 
butter size of an egg in a cup of cream thickened with a teaspoonful 

of flour previously moistened with cold milk 
salt and pepper to taste 

Drain the liquor from the oysters, cut as directed. Boil the 
cream, thickened, dissolve the butter, add the oysters, stew 
several minutes, stirring all the while. Put in the shells, heat in 
the oven a few minutes, and serve. 

Scalloped Oysters 

1 quart of oysters J cup of cream 

1 cup of bread crumbs season with salt and pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

Cover the bottom of a baking dish with crumbs, moisten with 

the cream, dot with pieces of butter. Season with pepper and 

salt, add the oysters, with a little of their liquor, and cover with 

crimibs, seasoned and butter, cook with a cover, then remove 

cover and brown. 

Broiled Oysters 

1 quart of the finest, firmest oysters pepper to taste 

J cup of melted butter 

Butter a wire broiler, lay in the oysters, hold them over a 
clear fire, turning them until they look plump and the edges curl ; 



FISH 21 

butter and pepper a hot dish, lay on the oysters. Serve immedi- 
ately. 

BroUed Oyster, with Brown Sauce 

1 quart of oysters 3 level tablespoonfuls flour 

1 cup of milk pepper and salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Stir butter in pan until a light brown, add flour, stirring con- 
stantly, then mUk gradually. Season and stand in a pan of 
hot water until needed. Prepare oysters, according to recipe 
above and add them to the sauce. 

Fried Oysters 

Select the largest and finest oysters you can procure, lay them 
on a clean cloth, picking them up by the heart, so as not to tear 
them, and pat gently with another cloth to dry them. Beat an 
egg light, stir in tablespoonful of cold water. Dip the oysters 
in the crumbs, then in the beaten egg, and then in the crumbs. 
Fry them in deep, hot fat, in wire basket, drain on brown paper. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Serve on a hot dish. 

Spiced Oysters 

2i quarts of oysters 1 level tablespoonful each of 

1 full pint of liquor whole mace, allspice and 
J pint vinegar white pepper 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 1 dessertspoonful whole cloves 

Put half of the vinegar, the salt and liquor on the stove together' 
when it boils, skim, then put in spices and wjien that boUs add 
the oysters. Be careful not to let them burn; let them stay on 
until the oysters plump and the edges curl. Put the oysters in a 
jar, and when the liquor is quite cool pour it over them and stand 
24 hours. Just before serving add the rest of the vinegar. 



22 THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 

Oyster Pie 

Line a pudding dish with a rich pie paste. Drain the oysters 
and put them in layers, seasoning with pepper, salt, and a little 
mace, with a few dots of butter. Add about half as many sliced 
mushrooms and continue until the dish is full. Pour in the 
oyster liquor with a little cream, cover with crust, and bake until 
brown. 

Oyster Cocktail 

Put 6 large oysters into a cocktail glass, add a saltspoonful 
of horseradish, 1 teaspoonful tomato catsup, 3 drops tabasco 
sauce, 10 drops of Worcestershire sauce, ^ teaspoonful lemon 
juice, i teaspoonful salt. Mix well together. Serve ice cold. 
This may be served with the shredded meat of lobster. 

Oysters, Deviled 

Clean, drain, chop slightly 1 pint oysters. Cook J cupful 
butter, \ cupful flour and f cupful mUk which have been well 
mixed. When the sauce bubbles, remove from the fire and add 
1 egg yolk, season to taste with salt, cayenne pepper, lemon 
juice, and J tablespoonful chopped parsley. Bake in ramekins 
with crumbs and butter. 

Terrapin 

Put the terrapin in boiling water 10 or 20 minutes, then change 
to another pot of boiling water and boil until the scales on the 
back slip readily upon pressure of the finger. To prepare for 
dressing, place it on its back and remove the undersheU ; in the 
center of the breast wiU be observed a small purplish looking sac, 
embedded in the liver, carefully remove this substance with a 
knife, being careful not to cut or break it, as it is the gaU. Cut 
up the entrails and liver with the other meat, and place in a 
chafing dish. When the lamp is lighted put in a § pound of 



FISH 



23 



butter cut up, then add pepper and salt; let simmer gently till 
butter is melted, keeping the dish covered, except when stirring. 

Baltimore Sun. 



Horseradish Sauce 



2 tablespoonfuls butter 
2 tablespoonfuls flour 
1 cup fish liquor or milk 



1 tablespoonful horseradish 
1 egg yolk 



Mix the butter and flour, add the fish liquor or milk and bring 
to a boil; season just before serving with the horseradish and the 
well-beaten yolk. Pour over boiled fish. 




MEATS 

The methods of cooking meat vary according to the object in 
view, which may be to extract the juice as in soups, broths and 
beef tea; to retain the juice, as in boUing, roasting, frying, etc., 
or it may be a combination of both these methods, as in stews, 
where it is desired to retain part of the juice in the meat, and to 
extract part of it, to enrich the gravy. 

The meat which is strained from beef tea, broth, etc., has little 
or no flavor, according to the size of the piece and the length of 
time it has stood in the water. The chief muscle-proteid remains 
in the meat after the soluble albumen, etc., has been extracted; 
therefore this meat, although lacking in flavor, stiU contains con- 
siderable nutriment. If combined with fresh meat or vegetables 
and well seasoned, this tasteless meat may be made palatable as 
well as nutritious. 

,.^ Meat should be removed from the paper in which it is wrapped 
S,s**soon as brought in from the store, as the paper wUl absorb the 
juice and may impart an unpleasant flavor to the meat. 

In cooking meats for soups and broths place in cold water to 
extract the juice, and do not add salt until done. 

Boiling 

Meats, when the juice is to be retained, should be put in boiling 
water, salted, and allowed to boil 10 minutes, then remove to 
cooler part of the stove and simmer until tender. 

Roasting 

In roasting the juice should be kept in the meat. The oven 
should be hot ; place on the shelf of the oven 10 minutes to harden 



MEATS 25 

the albumen on the outside; remove to the floor of the oven; baste 
every 10 minutes. 

Broiling 

The object in this method of cooking is to keep the juice in the 
meat. The meat is first held over a clear fire 10 seconds, until 
the .albumen on one side hardens. Then as soon as the juice 
begins to rise, the meat is turned and the albumen on the other 
side is hardened. Continue to tm-n the meat once in 10 seconds 
until cooked. 

Stewing 

Stewing is cooking slowly or gently a long time in a small 
quantity of water. 

In stews, the meat and the broth, or the water in which the 
meat has been cooked, are served together, with or without the 
addition of vegetables. 

In niaking astew, the object is to cook the meat in such a 
way that part of the juice will remain in the meat, and part of 
it may be extracted, in order to flavor the gravy or broth. 
This may be accomplished by dividing the meat, after cutting y 
into pieces suitable for serving, into two portions. The juice may 
be extracted by putting the first portion into cold water, and then 
heating slowly to the boiling point. The juice may be kept in 
the other portion by adding it to the first when the water reaches 
the boiling point, or by broiling, or browning in hot fat before 
adding it. The whole should then be cooked gently 3 hours, or 
untU the meat becomes tender. 

Tough meat is siiitable for stews because it is juicy, and be- 
cause by this long, slow cooking in water, it can be made tender. 
The tougher portions of beef, mutton, lamb or veal may be used. 
Meat with some bone and fat makes a richer stew than one made 
with lean meat only. Pieces of cold cooked meat may also be 
used. 



26 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Browning in smoking, hot fat helps to keep the juice in the 
meat, and also gives a richer flavor and color to the stew. The 
vegetables, also, are sometimes browned for the same reason, 
before adding to the stew. The pieces of meat are usually rolled 
in floiu- before cooking in the hot fat, to dry the surface, and thus 
make them brown more quickly. The flour also helps to thicken 
the stew. 

The vegetables commonly used in stews are onions, carrots, 
turnips and potatoes. Tomatoes, also, are sometimes used, 
as weU as string beans and green peas. 

The usual seasonings are salt and pepper. Sweet herbs, 
parsley, a piece of bay leaf, one or two cloves, or a little catsup 
may be used to give variety, but care must be taken to use only 
enough of these materials to give a delicate flavor. 

Dumplings are often served with stews. 

The materials for a stew may be put into a covered pan or 
bean pot, and J^oked in a moderate oven instead of on the 
stove, for the same length of time. This method is called brais- 
ing. Besides braising, other variations of stewing are : the fricas- 
see, smothering, pot-roasting, etc. 

Pan Broiling 

If not possible to broil meat it may be cooked in a dry hot pan. 
Fat is drawn from the meat in cooking and should be poured off 
from time to time. 

Beef Juice 

To obtain the pure juice of beef, heat in a double-boiler; press 
out the juice; do not add water; season with a pinch of salt. 



MEATS 27 

Roast Beef 

Buy tender beef, wipe the meat with damp cloth (do not wash) ; 
sprinkle with salt and pepper; put in hot roasting pan in hot oven 
for 15 minutes to brown outside. Then place on floor of the 
oven, cover the bottom of the pan with boiling water, and baste 
every 15 minutes until done. Allow 15 minutes for smaU roast 
per pound and 20 minutes for large. 

Gravy 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 cups of water from meat 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped onion J teaspoonful salt 

3 tablespoonfuls flour J teaspoonful pepper 

Cook chopped onion in the butter until slightly browned, but 
not burned. Mix salt and<pepper with the flour, and add onion ; 
cook until the mixture begins to brown, then add the water grad- 
ually and stir constantly. Let boil 5 minutes and strain and 
serve in sauce-boat or around the meat. Cooked tomatoes 
may be used with the water from the meat and less onion if 
preferred. 

Pot Roast 

For this purpose take the chuck, cut off some of the fat and 
melt in a deep iron kettle. When hot, put meat in and brown on 
both sides, add 1 pint of boUing water, 1 teaspoonful of salt, cover 
and simmer until tender. Serve with brown gravy. 

Brown Gravy 

2 tablespoonfuls fat from roast J teaspoonful onion juice 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour i teaspoonful salt 

1 cup of water or stock pepper 

Brown fat and flour together, add liquid gradually, season, 
stir constantly and boil until smooth. 



28 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Beef Stew 

2 pounds beef 1 carrot 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour 4 potatoes 
2 onions, sliced water 

1 turnip salt and pepper 

Beef from the neck, shoulder or lower part of the round may be 
used. Wipe meat with a damp cloth, and cut into 1^ inch or 2- 
inch cubes. Extra fat may be removed, and part of it heated to 
brown the meat. Put the poorer meat, as ragged, bony, gristly 
pieces, into a kettle; cover with cold water and heat to a boiling 
point. Heat the fat in a frying pan until smoking hot. RoU 
the more choice pieces of meat in flour. Put them into hot fat, 
and turn them until the surface is slightly browned. Brown the 
onions also, and put into the frying pan the rest of the flour, and 
if any remains after meat has been roUed. 

Put the meat and onions into the kettle when water reaches the 
boiling point; rinse out the frying pan with a little of the water, 
and then return it to the kettle, which should be placed where the 
water will be kept very hot, but cannot boil. Cook slowly until 
meat is tender. Prepare turnip and carrot, and cut into thin 
slices. Three-quarters of an hour before stew is to be served, 
move kettle where water will boil and add turnip and carrot. 
Wash and pare the potatoes, cut into quarters, parboil 5 minutes, 
drain and add to stew; cook 20 minutes. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper, adding boiling water if necessary. There 
should be enough liquid to reach nearly to the top, but not to 
cover the vegetables. The stew may be thickened with flour 
if desired. Dumplings, if used, should be added 10 minutes 
before the stew is to be served. Place them so they wiU rest 
on top of the meat and vegetables. The stew should boil 
steadily diuring the 10 minutes required to cook the dumplings. 



MEATS ■ 29 

Dumplings for Stews 

2 cups sifted flour 1 teaspoonful salt 

4 tablespoonfuls of baking powder J cup water or milk 

Sift dry ingredients together ; add liquid gradually. Drop the 
mixture by the spoonful on top of the stew. Boil 10 minutes 
without lifting the cover. 

Hamburg Steaks 

1 pound round steak 1 small onion 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley 

Season the steak with salt and pepper, then scrape or chop 
the meat, add onion, parsley, and mix thoroughly; make into 
small cakes, and broU on greased broiler. Serve with tomato 
sauce. 

Broiled Steak 

Wipe the steak with a damp cloth, remove the skin and bone; 
grease wire broiler with the fat, lay in the meat and broil over hot 
coals (turning constantly), from 5 to 8 minutes if preferred rare, 
and from 8 to 10 minutes if well done. Serve on hot platter with 
maltre d'h6tel butter. 

Maitre d'Hotel Butter 

Cream i cup of butter, J teaspoonful of salt, i saltspoonful 
of pepper, 1 tablespoonful parsley, and 1 tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. Serve on hot steak or broiled fish. 

Stuffed Beefsteak 

Pound well a flank or round steak, season with salt and pep- 
per, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful each of chopped onion, sage, 
parsley, and bits of butter. Have ready 3 or 4 mealy white 



30 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

potatoes, mashed fine and beaten well with 1 egg; spread evenly 
over all, roll up tightly, fasten the ends and sides with skewer 
pins. Fry out some of the beef fat in a pan, into which put an- 
other teaspoonful of the chopped onion, a little pepper and salt 
and 2 cups of boiling water. Put the roll in and bake in hot oven 
about 2 hours, basting frequently. 

Mock Duck 

2 pounds of round steak 1 chopped onion 

1 cup of bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful salt 
1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley pepper 

1 egg 

Grind the meat, add all the ingredients, mix well, add egg 
unbeaten. Mold into a roll, put into a greased baking pan, 
with a little water or stock, and baste frequently, bake 2 hours. 
May be served hot or cold. 

Beefsteak Smothered in Onions 

Cut the onions in slices, and fry in hot bacon fat for 15 min- 
utes, add salt, pepper and a cup of boiling water, and simmer until 
a light brown; have ready a broiled steak, pour over the onions, 
set in the oven a few minutes, and serve. 

Beefsteak with Mushroom Sauce 

Stew the mushrooms in i cup water until tender, drain and let 
stand until cold. Then poiu- into them a cup of cream, or ^ 
cup of the water in which they were cooked, a tablespoonful of 
butter rolled in flour, 1 teaspoonful salt, a dash of cayenne; 
stew gently until perfectly done. Serve around the broiled 
steak. If the mushrooms are canned they need only be added to 
the cream sauce; stand over hot water for 10 minutes. 



MEATS 31 

Frizzled Beef with Scrambled Eggs 

Have the dried beef finely chipped, put on in cold water and 
boil 5 minutes; drain off the water and add enough fresh milk to 
cover the beef. Rub 1 tablespoonful each of butter and flour 
until smooth, and when the milk boils up add this to it. Have 
ready 3 well-beaten eggs, stir these in with a sprinkle of pepper, 
2 minutes before taking from the fire. Serve hot on toast. 

Frizzled Beef 

Heat a good sized lump of butter in a skillet, add the beef, 
stirring constantly, sprinkle in 1 tablespoonful of flour, add slowly 
1 pint of milk, stir until smooth and thick. Serve hot. 

Stewed Kidney 

Cut the white membrane and fat from a fresh beef kidney, 
slice it in small thin pieces ; put in frying pan 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter and let it begin to brown; put in the kidney and let it 
brown rapidly, add a heaping teaspoonful of dry flour and §tir 
until the flotu" is brown, then pour in 1 pint of boiling water, 
salt and pepper (and if you prefer ^ teacupful of tomato catsup). ■ 
Stir and cook until smooth and serve hot. It is not necessary 
to parboil kidney, the more quickly it is cooked the more tender 
it will be. Parboiling kidney makes it tough unless vinegar be 
cooked with it. 

Kidney 

Boil the kidney the day before you need them untU tender and 
let them be in their broth over night. The next morning cut 
them in fine pieces ; put' in a stew pan with a little water, salt and 
pepper, 1 tablespoonful of butter and enough flour to thicken 
them a little. Let stew until boiling hot and add 3 tablespoonfuls 
of cream. Serve hot. . 



32 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Sweetbreads 

Wash the sweetbreads, parboil and cool. Rub 1 tablespoonful 
of butter in 1 of flour, add slowly 1 cup of milk, stiring constantly 
until smooth ; season with salt and a dash of cayenne. Break the 
sweetbreads in pieces and add to the sauce, and stand in a pan 
over hot water. Serve over toast or in pat6 shells. 

Broiled Sweetbreads 

Wash the sweetbreads, parboil and cool, cut in halves, sift a 

little salt and pepper over them ; put in broiler, brown one side 

then the other. Serve on a hot dish ; put a little melted butter on 

each piece. 

Fricassee Cold Meat 

li tablespoonfuls butter 1 saltspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful flour 1 cup stock 

i teaspoonful onion juice pepper 
1 cup water 

Cut the meat in slices, season with salt and pepper. Put the 

butter in a frying pan, when it melts add the flour, stir until 

smooth, gradually add water and stock; season with onion juice, 

salt and pepper; simmer until smooth; add the cold meat and 

cook gently until thoroughly heated. Serve on toast on a hot 

dish. 

Minced Meat on Toast 

Prepare the toast, arrange on a hot platter, and keep hot. 
Remove gristle, fat, etc., from cold cooked meat. Chop the meat 
very fine, measure it and put into a saucepan; add 1 cup of gravy 
for each cup of meat. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and, 
if hked, with finely chopped or grated onion, or a few drops of 
onion juice, or a little Worcestershire sauce. Grated nutmeg 
may be added to lamb or mutton, if liked. Place sauce pan over 



MEATS 33 

the heat, and stir until meat is heated. Pour over the hot toast 
and serve at once. The toast may be buttered or not, as 
preferred. 

French Hash or Cottage Pie 

Prepare the meat as directed for the meat on toast, and put it 
into a baking dish. Cover the top with a thick layer of well- 
seasoned mashed potatoes. Use a fork to form the potatoes into 
a mound, with the highest point in the center. Bake on the 
grate of a hot oven until the potatoes are slightly browned on top. 
More gravy will be needed than for the meat on toast, as part of 
it will be absorbed by the mashed potatoes. 

Hash 

Prepare meat as for cottage pie. Use equal parts of mashed 
or finely-chopped potatoes and meat ; mix together and moisten 
with gravy, water or milk. Allow from a teaspoonful to a table- 
spoonful of liquid for each cup of hash. Use more liquid if the 
hash is very dry. Season to taste. Other vegetables besides 
potatoes may be added to give variety. Heat the fat in a frying 
pan until smoking hot. Use from a teaspoonful to a tablespoon- 
ful or more, according to the quantity of hash. Spread the hash 
evenly over the bottom of the pan, cover, and place where the 
hash will heat slowly until a brown crust is formed on the bottom.- 
Slip a knife under the hash, fold over double, and turn out on a 
warm platter. The hash may be formed into small cakes, rubbed 
over the top with melted butter, placed on a buttered baking 
pan, and heat on the grate of a rather hot oven until slightly 
browned on top. The materials used in making hash may also 
be heated in a saucepan, with enough milk or gravy to keep from 
burning. Stir until heated thoroughly and serve at once. 



34 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Liver Saute 

Wash and cut in thin sHces, season with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour, fry in butter, and when well browned stir in a 
tablespoonful butter, and gradually a cup of boiling water. 
Boil until it thickens and serve. 

Calves Liver and Bacon 

Cut the liver in thin slices, season with pepper and salt; put 
in the frying pan with some sliced bacon and fry them quickly. 
Put the meat on a hot dish, add to the essence left in the frying 
pan a little flour and boiling water to make the gravy, pour over 
it, then serve. 

Veal Loaf 

3 pounds of veal 2 tablespoonfuls of milk 

2 slices of salt pork, finely chopped 10 crackers rolled fine 

3 eggs 1 tablespoonful salt 

Bake slowly about 2 hours. To be sliced when cold for tea or 
lunch. 

Veal Cutlet 

Trim the cutlets smoothly, sprinkle over pepper and salt, 
dip in beaten eggs, then in bread criunbs. Have ready the 
frying pan with hot lard; fry a light brown, turn and keep the 
pan covered, as veal must be thoroughly done. When perfectly 
done, place on hot platter; with a dredge sprinkle some flour in 
the lard, add 1 tablespoonful butter, a sprinkle of pepper, salt, 
1 tablespoonful each of chopped onion and parsley. Pom* over 
all 1 teacupful of fresh milk, stirring constantly. When it boils 
up pour over the cutlets and garnish with parsley. 



MEATS 35 

Veal or Lamb Stew 

Pieces from neck, the ends of the ribs, the shoulder of the leg 

may be used. The flavor of mutton or lamb will be more delicate 

if the tough membrane and fat surrounding the meat are removed 

before cooking. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and cut 

into pieces suitable for serving. Put the meat and a sliced 

onion into a kettle, cover with cold water, and heat quickly to 

boiling point. Reduce heat and cook slowly until tender. 

Remove meat to a hot platter, cover and keep hot. Thicken 

part of the water to make a sauce, pour over the meat and serve 

at once. Half a small carrot or turnip may be cut into dice and 

browned in fat and then cooked with the meat, if more flavor is 

desired. Half cup barley or rice may be cooked with the meat. 

The broth may be varied by flavoring with a tablespoonful of 

finely chopped parsley. The liquid may be thickened with flour, 

or the following sauce may be used. 

* 
Sauce for Veal or Lamb 

1 teaspoonful sage 2 cups of meat broth or 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 cup of broth and 1 cup of milk 

3 tablespoonfuls flour salt and pepper to taste 

Combine materials as directed for white sauce. 

Roast Mutton 

Select tender meat. Take off the shank, wash well and let 
lie in salt water 20 minutes; then wipe dry and rub with salt and 
pepper ; lay on the rack dripping pan ; break the shank and put in 
the pan with 1 pint of boiling water, adding more pepper and 
salt; put in a hot oven and baste frequently to prevent it from 
being hard and dry. Roast 20 minutes to the pound — it must 
be perfectly done, 



36 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

To Bake a Shoulder of Lamb 

Have a pocket cut in the shoulder. With dry bread crumbs, 
a tablespoonful each of butter, finely chopped onion and chopped 
parsley, a sprinkle of pepper and salt, mix well together, fill the 
pocket. Put in a dripping pan with 2 cups of boiling water and 
brown. 

Pan Broiled Chops 

Heat the frying pan very hot. Trim the chops, remove fat 
and wipe the meat with a damp cloth. Put chops in the frjdng 
pan. When one side is seared, ttirn, and sear the other, then 
cook the inside more slowly; turn the chops frequently, but 
do not pierce them with a fork when turning. Cook from 6 to 10 
minutes, according to thickness of chops. If necessary, stand the 
chops in the pan so that the edges may be cooked. Season 
with salt and pepper, arrange on hot dish and serve at once. 

Curry of Lamb 

4 cupfuls coarsely chopped lamb 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

4 cupfuls of stock, or hot water and 3 tablespoonfuls butter 

butter or gravy 2 teaspoonfuls curry powder 
3 tablespoonfuls flour salt and pepper to taste 

Brown butter and flour together, add meat and curry powder 
and stir until brown ; add stock, stir until sauce thickens ; add the 
lemon. Serve in a border of boiled rice. Veal or chicken may 
be substituted for the lamb. 

Mutton Reheated 

Slice the mutton. Make a sauce of a green pepper, from which 
the seeds have been removed, butter the size of an egg, and 3 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and a little minced onion. Cook this 
together until smooth, and then add 1 cup of stock and i cup 



MEATS 37 

of tomatoes, strained; season with salt and pepper, and when 
it thickens add the meat. Serve hot. 

Warmed-over Mutton 

3 tablespoonfuls butter 1 cup gravy 

3 tablespoonfuls flour J tumbler currant jelly 

J teaspoonful salt IJ tablespoonfuls sherry 

i teaspoonful pepper ^ 6 slices mutton 

Brown the butter and flour; salt and pepper, and cook 2 
minutes; add gravy. When thick, beat the jelly, and add; 
allow meat to heat, and add sherry. 

Crust for Meat Pies 

One quart of sifted flour, 3 tablespoonfuls of good firm lard 
well chopped in, 2^ cupfuls of sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful of 
soda, wet with a very little hot water and mixed in with the milk ; 
2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, sifted into the dry flour; 
little salt; work quickly, and do not make very stiff. 

Yorkshire Pudding 

Beat 3 eggs very light. Add 1 teaspoonful of salt and 1 pint 
of milk. Sift f cup of sifted flour, pour in a little of the milk and 
eggs, and mix perfectly smooth; add the remainder and beat well. 
Raise the beef on to a rack, pour in the pudding so that as much 
of the dripping as possible will fall on it, and cook until done, 
nearly 30 minutes. Cut in squares and serve on the platter 
with the beef. 

White Sauce 

White sauce is used as the basis of many sauces and gravies; 
it may be made of milk, cream, or milk and water, thickened 
with flour or cornstarch, combined with butter; the usual sea- 



38 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

sonings are salt and pepper. The proportion of flour to each 
cup of liquid varies from 1 to 2 tablespoonfuls ; the proportion 
of butter from 1 teaspoonful to 2 or more tablespoonfuls, ac- 
cording to the use to be made of it. One-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt is the usual quantity for each cupful of sauce, a little more 
being used if the amount of butter is small. Pepper is added 
according to taste. By substituting sugar and flavoring for 
salt and pepper, a simple pudding sauce may be made. 

Methods of combining the materials for white sauce: 

First Method. Substitute milk for water, and mix as for 
starch or flour paste; add butter, salt and pepper when cooked. 

Second. Melt the butter, and add aU the flour; when well 
mixed, add the hot liquid, one-third at a time, each time stir- 
ring until perfectly smooth before adding more liquid. 

Third. Warm the butter until soft, and blend the flour with 
it thoroughly; add all the liquid at once, and heat, stirring con- 
stantly, until it boils 5 minutes. In the latter two methods, 
the seasoning may be mixed with the butter and flour, or added 
at the last. 

The first method takes longer, but it is preferable when sauce 
is to be used for those with weak digestion, as the cooking of 
butter is thought to render it less digestible. 

Mint Jelly 

Use apples that make a light jeUy, cut but do not pare; remove 
seeds and cores, cover with water, let boil slowly until tender; 
strain through a jelly bag, do not squeeze. Put the juice back 
and heat, and to each pint of juice allow f pound of sugar that 
has been heated in the oven; boil about 20 minutes. When 
ready to put in glasses allow for each pint of juice, 7 drops of 
green coloring matter (made from spinach) and 3 drops of oil of 



MEATS 39 

spearmint dissolved in 1 tablespooi^/ul cold water. Pour into 
glasses boiling hot. 

Tomato Jelly 

1 lemon | teaspoouful each of cinnamon, 

sugar cloves, allspice 

Peel and cut tomatoes, and to each pound add the juice and 

grated peel of a lemon. Boil together imtil tomatoes are soft 

and strain through a jelly bag, and to each pint of juice allow 

1 poimd sugar. Heat the juice, add the heated sugar, put the 

spices in a bag and boil gently until it jellies; put in glasses and 

when cold seal. Serve with cold meats. 

Mint Sauce 

i cup finely chopped mint leaves J cup vinegar 
1 tablespoonful sugar 

Wash the mint leaves, drain, and chop very fine. Mix sugar 
and vinegar, and add the mint leaves. Let stand 15 to 20 min- 
utes in a warm place before serving. 

Tomato Sauce 

1 can tomatoes or 1 dozen raw 1 tablespoonful butter 

tomatoes 1 teaspoonful salt 

4 cloves 2 tablespoonfuls flovu- 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful pepper 

Stew tomatoes, strain and put all the ingredients into a sauce 
pan and cook until it thickens. 

Gravy for Mutton 

2 cups hot water from meat J cup cold water 

3 tablespoonfuls flour salt and pepper to taste 

Add the cold water to the flour gradually, and stir until the 
mixture is smooth. Add the 2 cups hot water slowly, and stir 
constantly. Put mixture into a saucepan, place over the heat. 



40 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

and boil 5 minutes, stirring all the time. Add seasoning, and 
serve hot. For caper sauce, add J cup of capers to the gravy. 

Calf's Foot Jelly 

If the feet are large allow a quart of water to each foot and 
boil for 5 or 6 hours, or until the meat is falling from the bones, 
and the liquid is reduced one-half. Season, strain, and set 
aside until next day. Before using remove every particle of 
fat from the top, and the sediment from the bottom, as the least 
bit will cause the jelly to be cloudy. 

To Souse Pig's Feet 

The feet can be bought already cleaned and prepared. Put 
them on in hot water and boil until well done, 4 or 5 hours, but 
they must not drop from the bones. Put them hot into a jar, and 
pour over them in equal quantities, vinegar and the water in 
which they were boiled. Season with pepper and salt, and cover. 
They can be used the next day, eaten cold, or dip them in a thin 
batter of flour, water and egg, and fry in hot lard. Add a little 
chopped onion if you prefer. 

Scrapple 
Cut in slices and brown without fat. 

Smoked Sausage 
Prick the sausage with a fork, put in the frying pan with a 
little water, and cook a few minutes. Pour off the water, add 
a little fat and fry until brown. 

Fresh Sausage 
Heat the frying pan and when hot put in the sausage and fry 
a delicate brown. Do not add fat. Drain, and serve on hot 
dish. 



MEATS 

To Scramble Brains 



41 



Clean thoroughly and soak in salt water for several hours to 
get out the blood, drain and put in a sauce pan with enough water 
to cover them ; boil J hour, pour off water and mash. Allow to 
every pound of brains 2 eggs and scramble. 




POULTRY AND GAME 

Fried Chicken 

Cut them up and lay in salt water for | hour. Then take them 
out and dry, season with pepper and salt and cover with as much 
flour as they will hold. Have the lard boiling hot in the frying 
pan, into which put a teaspoonful of butter, lay each piece in 
carefuUy not forgetting the liver and gizzard. Fry tiU a fine 
amber color ; then turn each piece. Be careful that the chicken is 
well done, but not scorched. Serve on a hot dish. Pass cream 
gravy. 

Cream Gravy for Fried Chicken 

After taking the chicken put of the frying pan, pour off the top 
fat, put in a tablespoonful of butter, add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
flour rubbed smooth, to which add milk, parsley, salt and pepper. 
Cook until creamy. 

Stewed Chicken 

Cut up the chicken, put on the fire in a saucepan, add quart 
of water, an onion chopped fine and simmer. When perfectly 
tender, stir in i pound of butter well roUed in flour, and a J pint 
of cream. Season with salt and pepper. If you prefer, an hour 
before serving you may add a cup of rice. 

Smothered Spring Chicken 

When ready to draw the chickens cut them open down the 
back, place in weak salt water,'Vipe dry and place in pan just 
large enough to enable you to spread chickens open, breast down. 
Place on each chicken a tablespoonful of butter, cut in small 



POULTEY AND GAME 43 

pieces ; pour J pint of water over them and place in oven for J 
hour; add another ^ pint of water and a little salt and pepper. 
Add water occasionally to prevent cooking dry. It wiU take 
about an hour to cook chickens weighing 1| to 2 pounds. About 
10 minutes before they are done add a cup of cream to each 
chicken, sprinkle with a very little flour, return to the oven. 
Serve on a hot dish, pouring the gravy around them, and 
form a border of boiled rice on the dish. 

Fricasseed Chicken 

Clean, wash and cut up the chicken. Lay in salt water for i 
hour. Put them in a pot with just enough water to cover them, 
add ^ pound of sliced bacon, and simmer until tender; then add 
tablespoonful each of chopped onion, parsley and celery; pepper 
and salt; a tablespoonful of butter, and some cream, into 
which has been added 2 well beaten eggs and 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour. Let boil. Arrange the chicken on a hot platter, 
pour the gravy over it and serve. 

Panned Chicken 

Split the chickens (they must be young), down the back and 
clean carefully; lay them in fresh water and wipe dry, and rub 
with butter, pepper and salt. Put them split side down in a pan 
in which is 1 teaspoonful of hot butter and a little stock, baste 
every 10 minutes with melted butter and set on top rack to 
brown. Garnish with parsley and pass cream gravy with them. 

Roast Turkey or Chicken 

Thoroughly clean and remove the tendons in the leg, stuff with 
grated dry bread crumbs, i pound butter, i teaspoonful pepper, 
very little salt, as the bread and butter is already salted, The 



44 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

inside of the fowl should be rubbed with salt, one cup of celery 
chopped fine. Mix all together and fill from where the craw was 
taken to a natural shape; tie skin over the neck, put the rest 
in body of the fowl. Rub the fowl well with butter, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, dredge with flour. Cover well the bottom of 
the pan with boiling water. Roast in a moderate oven, allowing 
20 minutes to every pound. Serve on a hot dish and pass brown 
gravy. 

Brown Gravy 

Use the fat in the pan in which the fowl was roasted, first pour- 
ing off the top fat and thicken with flour; add | pint of cold 
water. Stir constantly until it boils, season with teaspoonful of 
kitchen bouquet; salt and pepper. 

Oyster Stuffing for Turkey 

1 pint of oysters strained from 1 raw egg 

liquor % cup of butter 

2 stalks of celery 

Chop all fine and mix with dry bread crumbs, season with 
salt, pepper and nutmeg. Boil the giblets until tender, chop 
fine, and put in gravy of turkey or chicken. 

Raisin and Nut Stuffing for Poultry 

sufficient dry bread , crumbs to 1 pint of chestnuts shelled, par- 
fill the fowl boiled, blanched and chopped 
2 stalks of celery, chopped fine J teacupful of English walnuts, 
i cup of butter, cut in small lumps chopped fine 
1 pound of raisins, halved 

• Sprinkle celery and nuts vnth. teaspoonful of salt, add butter 
and crumbs, stirring together with a sprinkle of pepper; then 
add raisins, mixing thoroughly; fill the fowl and roast as usual, 



POULTRY AND GAME 45 

Scalloped Chicken or Turkey 

Cut into small pieces the cold fowl; to each pint of meat add 
1 pint of white sauce and 3 hard-boiled eggs; season with salt, 
dash of cayenne. Mix altogether. Cover top with bread crumbs 
and small pieces of butter, and brown in oven. 

Chicken Pates 

1 pint of cooked chicken J pint of milk 

1 tablespoonful of butter a teaspoonful of chopped parsley 

?^ 1 tablespoonful of flour salt and pepper 

Mince the chicken, rub the butter and flour together, add the 
milk; stir until it thickens; season with the parsley, pepper and 
salt. Fill the shells and set in the oven and brown slightly. 

Chicken Croquettes 

1 quart of cold cooked chicken J pint of milk 

1 tablespoonful of butter 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour salt and pepper 

Chop the chicken fine, rub the butter and flour together; then 
the milk; stir until it thickens, add the chicken, seasoned with 
the parsley; a little onion juice if you prefer; salt and a dash of 
cayenne, and stand until cold. Then make in pyramid shaped 
croquettes, dip them in beaten egg, thinned with a tablespoonful 
of warm water, roll in bread crumbs and fry in hot fat. Drain on 
brown paper and serve on a hot dish. 

Pilaff of Chicken 

One small chicken, half cup rice, one teaspoonful salt. Cut 
up the chicken the same as for a fricassee. Put it in a stew pan, 
half cover it with boiling water, and set on a moderate fire to 
simmer. Now wash the rice, add it to the chicken and the salt. 



46 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

and let all simmer until the chicken is tender. Make a tomato 
sauce. Dish the chicken and rice together, and pour over it the 
tomato sauce. This dish is very nice made from cold pieces of 
chicken or mutton. 

Molded Chicken 

Boil 2 full-grown fat chickens in as little water as possible 
imtil the meat falls from the bones; pick off and chop it fine, 
season with salt and pepper. Put slices of hard-boiled eggs in a 
mold and cover it with a layer of the chicken. Then more eggs 
and chicken until nearly fiUed. Boil down the water in which the 
chicken was boiled. Season and pour over the chicken. Set 
on ice; when cold turn out and slice very thin. 

To Broil Partridges 

Split them down the back and clean carefully; lay them in 
salt water for 1 hour; then wipe dry and rub with butter, pepper 
and salt. Put them split side down in a pan in which is 
1 teaspoonful of melted butter. When nearly done, baste with 
butter and set in the top grate of oven to brown. It is well 
to keep them covered while on the stove. Squabs may be cooked 
the same way. 

Stewed Pigeons 

Clean and wash the pigeons, dust with flour, put on in a sauce 
pan with just enough water to cover them, and a lump of butter, 
and let them cook slowly for J hour. Mix together flour and 
water, salt and pepper and a little pai;sley; stir in and let it 
boil up. Serve on a hot dish and pour the gravy over them. 

Stewed Rabbit 

Cut a rabbit in 8 pieces. After soaking it in salt and water 
put in a stew pan with more than enough water to cover it. 



POULTEY AND GAME 



47 



When nearly done, strain off the water, saving enough, with 1 
cup of milk, to cover the rabbit ; return to the pan, add the cup of 
milk, one tablespoonful each of chopped onion and parsley. 
After this boUs up, add 1 heaping tablespoonful of butter mixed 
with the same quantity of flour. Let come to a boU once more 
and serve in a heated dish, garnished with hard boiled eggs, 
sliced. 

To Fry Rabbits 

Cut up the rabbit, wash and drain; season with salt and pepper; 
rub each piece in flour, and drop them separately in a frying 
pan of hot lard. Fry untU brown. Dish and keep the rabbits 
hot; strain the gravy; add a tablespoonful of flour, rub in a 
tablespoonful of butter; a cup of rich milk, salt and chopped 
parsley. Let it boil a few minutes, stirring constantly. Serve. 

To Cook Reed Birds 

Thoroughly clean 1 dozen birds; wash them and lay on a 
dry towel; spread another over them and press them quite flat. 
Season with salt and pepper, a slight dash of cayenne. Put a 
little butter in the pan and when hot put in the birds and cover. 
When brown serve hot on toast, with a lump of butter on each 
bird. 




VEGETABLES 

General Rules for Cooking Vegetables 

Wash thoroughly, pare, peel, or scrape, according to the kind. 
Let them stand in cold water until ready to cook to keep them 
crisp, or to freshen them when wilted, or to prevent them from 
turning dark. 

Cook in fresh boiling salted water, enough to cover and keep 
the water boiling. Allow 1 teaspoonful of salt to 1 quart of 
water. Salt may be added when vegetables are put in, except in 
the case of delicate green vegetables, as peas, spinach, etc., when 
it should not be added until they are nearly done. To preserve 
the color, cook green vegetables uncovered. Cook cabbage, 
onions and turnips, uncovered, in a large quantity of water; 
by changing the water once or twice during cooking, much of 
the strong odor and flavor will be lost. 

Vegetables should be cooked only until tender, drained when 
necessary, and served promptly. 

The water in which vegetables have been cooked is called vege- 
table stock, and if of agreeable flavor, may be used in making 
sauces to serve with the vegetables, or as a basis for vegetable 
soups, thickened with flour, combined with butter. Time for 
cooking varies, according to the freshness, age and size of vege- 
tables. They are cooked when a fork will go through them easily. 
Serve plain, with salt, pepper and butter, or with cream, milk 
or stock sauce. 

Seasoning 

To 1 pint of cooked vegetables, allow 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter, i teaspoonful of salt, and J saltspoonful of pepper. 



VEGETABLES 49 

Scalloped Dishes 

Cold meats, or fish and oysters, some vegetables and some fruits 
are used in scalloped dishes. 

The crumbs for scalloped dishes are prepared from the inside 
of a loaf of bread, a day or more old. Grate the bread, or if 
dry enough, cnunb by rubbing two pieces together. Cracker 
crumbs may also be used, but will need more liquid to moisten 
them. 

Place the food material in 2 layers, using one-fourth of the 
crumbs for the bottom of the dish, the other one-fourth in the 
middle, and the remaining one-half for the top. Buttered 
crumbs are used for the top. 

White Sauce 

1 tablespoonful butter J teaspoonful salt 

li tablespoonful flour white pepper to taste 

1 cup milk 

Scaldthe milk, melt the butter, add to it the flour, and mix 

thoroughly; add the milk gradually, stir until perfectly smooth. 

One-half cup of milk and | cup of vegetable stock may be used 

instead of all milk for a sauce for vegetables. 

Potatoes 

They should be kept in a cool, dark, dry place. If stored in 
a light place an unpleasant flavor will develop. 

Boiled Potatoes 

.Choose potatoes of about the same size. Wash, pare thin, 
aaad drop at once into cold water to prevent discoloration. Cook 
in fresh boiling salted water, until a fork wUl penetrate them 
easily. When soft, drain, uncover, and shake gently over the 
heat until the outside is dry and mealy; sprinkle a little salt over 
them. Serve hot in an tmcovered dish. 



50 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

New potatoes have thin skins, so can be scraped instead of 
pared. In the spring, old potatoes are improved by soaking 1 
hour in cold water. 

Sweet potatoes are cooked in the same manner as white pota- 
toes. They are not usually pared, as without the skins they 
would lose some of the sugar to which they owe the sweetness 
which gives them their name. 

Mashed Potatoes 

6 medium sized potatoes 3 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 teaspoonful salt } to J cup hot milk 

J saltspoonful pepper 

Boil the potatoes, and drain them; mash in the saucepan in 
which they were boiled. Season; add the hot milk gradually; 
beat until light and creamy, and pile on a hot dish without 
smoothing. 

Riced Potatoes 

Press hot mashed potatoes through a potato ricer, or coarse 
strainer, into a hot vegetable dish. Serve at once, or brown 
lightly in a hot oven. 

Baked Potatoes 

Wash and scrub potatoes of uniform size. Bake on the grate 
of a hot oven from 30 to 45 minutes, or until soft. Turn them 
every 15 minutes, to keep them from burning. Test by pressing 
them, with the hand wrapped in a towel. When soft, break open 
the skins, to let the steam escape, and serve at once. If any 
are left over, remove skins and use for warming over. 

Creamed Potatoes No. 1 

Cut cold potatoes into cubes, and for each cupful allow i cup 
of milk, i tablespoonful butter, J teaspoonful salt and a dash of 



VEGETABLES 51 

pepper. Heat the milk in a shallow pan, add the potatoes and 
stir slowly until they have absorbed nearly all the milk; add 
seasoning and stir until well mixed. Cook 5 minutes longer. 
Serve hot. One teaspoonful of parsley, chopped fine, may be 
added to the seasoning. 

Creamed Potatoes "No. 2 

Cut up the cold potatoes into cubes, and heat in thin white 
sauce, allowing IJ cup of sauce for 2 cups of potatoes. 

Potato Cakes 

Form cold mashed potatoes into balls and flatten them into 
cakes i inch thick; arrange them on a buttered baking pan, putting 
a smaU piece of butter on the top of each. Bake on the grate of a 
hot oven, until slightly browned. 

Creamed Potatoes with Cheese 

The sliced potatoes may be seasoned, put in a baking dish and 
covered with milk; grated cheese thickly sprinkled over the top. 
Cover, and bake until the milk is nearly absorbed; then remove 
cover, and cook imtil cheese is melted. The potatoes may be 
fixed in the same way, substituting bread crumbs in place of the 
cheese. 

Stuffed Potatoes 

Select good-sized potatoes, wash, and bake in a brisk oven. 
When cooked, remove from the oven and cut in half lengthwise. 
Remove the interior and pass through a vegetable press into a 
hot bowl. To each pint of potato allow tablespoonful of butter, 
teaspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of white pepper, and i cup 
of hot cream. Whisk all together briskly until it looks light and 
snowy white, then add the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth. 



52 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Put the potato back in the shells, heaping it slightly, smooth the 
top of each with a knife dipped in cold water, put them into a 
baking pan, and return to the oven to brown the tops. Serve, 



Potato Croquettes 

2 cups fresh mashed potatoes a grating of nutmeg 

2 tablespoonfuls cream yolks of 2 eggs 

1 teaspoonful onion juice 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful butter 

Beat yolks light, add to the potatoes, then the other ingredi- 
ents. Mix thoroughly and turn into a saucepan ; stir over the £re 
until the mixture leaves the side of the pan. Mold in pyramid 
shaped croquettes, roU in beaten eggs, then in bread crumbs, 
and fry in boiling hot lard. Drain and serve. 

Baked Sweet Potato Puree 

Wash and scrub 4 large sweet potatoes and bake in a hot oven. 
• When done peel and rub through a colander. Stir into them 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper to taste and sufficient 
rich milk to make them into the consistency of a soft dough. 
Butter a pan and heap the potato in a neat mound, smoothing it 
with a knife. Brush with beaten egg and put in a hot oven until 
well browned. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes 

Pare and boil 4 large sweet potatoes until tender when stuck 
with a fork, and put through a potato press; add 1 teaspoonful . 
sugar, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 tablespoonful butter, dash of white 
pepper ; beat light. When cold, form in pyramid shape, dip in egg 
and bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard. Drain and serve. 



VEGETABLES 53 

To Wash Rice 

Put rice in a strainer, place strainer in a pan of water, and rub 
the rice between the hands ; change water 2 or 3 times, or until 
rice is clean, when the water will be clear. 

How to Boil Rice 

Prepare a sauce pan with water and a little salt. When it boils 
sprinlde in the rice gradually so as not to stop the boiling. Boil 
hard for 20 minutes, keeping the pot covered. Then take it 
from the fire and pour off the water, after which set the pot on 
the back of the stove with the lid off, to allow the rice to dry 
and the grains to separate. 

Remember — Boil rapidly from the time you cover the pot until 
you take it off, this allows each grain to swell to three times its 
normal size and the motion prevents the grains from sticking 
together. Do not stir it as this will cause it to fall to the bottom 
and burn. When properly boiled rice should be snowy white, 
perfectly dry, and soft, and every grain separate and alone. 

Spanish Rice 

Wash 1 pound of rice and soak it for an hour ; cut up 1 pound 
saiisage and 1 pound ham; a small piece red pepper, 2 onions, 
2 large tomatoes and a sprig of parsley. Fry these in a heaping 
spoonful of lard, and then add about a pint of boiling water. 
Stir in the rice slowly, cover the pot and set where it can cook 
slowly. Salt to taste and serve while hot. 

Rice and Beans 

Boil i pound red kidney beans, well done, add parsley and 
onions-, black pepper and salt. When done add enough hot water 
to cover 1^ cups of rice, cook until it comes to a boil, then put on a 



54 THE CHUKCH COOK BOOK 

slow fire 20 minutes, covering the pot but leave small opening for 
the steam to escape. Serve hot with a piece of butter. 

Rice Croquettes 

Boil a teacupful of rice in milk until soft, a teaspoonful each of 
sugar and melted butter, J teaspoonul of salt, 1 beaten egg. 
After thoroughly beating and mixing, shape into oval balls and 
dip in beaten egg, foUow by dipping in bread crumbs. Fry in 
hot lard, tmning with care, and when done to a nice brown put 
into a heated colander. 

Fried Rice 

Boil sufficient rice soft and let it stand until cold, then cut 
into slices of proper thickness and fry to a nice brown, turning it 
carefully so as not to break the slices. This is an excellent 
breakfast dish. 

Rice with Milk 

Wash well a cup of rice, put it into a quart of milk over night to 
soak; in the morning add a large spoonful of butter, a little salt, 
grated nutmeg, a little ground cinnamon, pint more of milk, then 
put it into the oven, and when it is warm stir the pudding without 
removing it from the oven; stone i pound raisins and add at 
this time; then let it cook until the rice is perfectly done. 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Scald and peel 1 dozen tomatoes, adding 2 tablespoonfuls 
water, or 1 can of tomatoes, pouring off half the liquor. Put 
in a pan, with 1 saltspoon salt, a dash of pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls 
sugar, and stew until quite smooth. Just before serving, beat 
in 2 tablespoonfuls butter. When well dissolved serve. Bread 
crumbs may be cooked with the tomatoes if you prefer. 



VEGETABLES 55 

Fried Tomatoes 

Slice the tomatoes, dredge each shce with a Uttle flour, salt 
and pepper. Fry in hot lard. Drain the tomatoes, put on a hot 
dish, pour most of the grease from the pan, rub in a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, add a little milk, let it boil up, pour over the tomatoes. 

Stuffed Tomatoes 

Remove a small, circular piece from the top of each tomato, 
having selected good-sized, firm fruit, remove the seeds with your 
fingers so as not to spoil the shape of the tomatoes, fill the cavities 
with the following: For every 6 tomatoes allow a cup of finely 
chopped chicken or veal, 1 cup of chopped celery, 3 heaping table- 
spoonfuls of bread crumbs, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
1 tablespoonfiil of melted butter, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 tea- 
spoonful salt ; pepper to taste. Mix aU the ingredients together, 
fill the tomatoes and place in a baking dish. Bake 30 minutes 
in a moderate oven, baiting with melted butter. 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

2 cups tomatoes li cups of crumbs 

li teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls butter 

speck pepper 

Cook tomatoes 10 minutes, with salt and pepper, butter crumbs 
and arrange as for scaUoped dishes. Cook, covered, 20 minutes, 
uncover, and brown on grate. If raw tomatoes are used, bake 
1 hour. 

Macaroni with Cheese and Tomatoes 

Boil i pound of macaroni in salted water, until perfectly done, 
drain, and add 1 cup of grated cheese, putting macaroni, cheese 
and a well-made tomato sauce in alternate layers in a heated 
vegetable dish. 



56 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Baked Macaroni 

Boil i pound of macaroni in salted water until soft, and the 
water has boiled down until there is just sufficient water to 
cover the macaroni well. Then turn into a baking pan, sprinkle 
with pepper and cover thicldy with grated cheese and dot all over 
with bits of butter. Bake until brown, but do not allow to dry. 

Lazania 

(Italian Winter Dish) 

2 pounds round or lean beef f pound macaroni 

1 quart onions 4 ounces butter and lard mixed 

i pound cheese (grated) 

Heat beef thoroughly, season and flour, put in a pan in the 
oven, baste frequently; when brown, add hot water to cover. 
While the meat is cooking cut onions in small pieces ; fry a nice 
brown in the butter and lard. Draw meat from the oven; cover 
with the onions and let it cook imtil the gravy is a rich brown. 
Boil the lazania (dough rolled in sheets cut in squares of about 
2i by 21 inches) in salted water, drain. Serve in dish a layer 
of lazania; then a layer of cheese; then, using a large spoon, 
dress with the beef gravy, and so on until the dish is full. Serve 
meat on separate dish. 

Macaroni can be used in place of lazania. 

Stewed Corn 

Cut the grains of 1 dozen ears of corn down the middle, and 
scrape; stew until tender; add ^ cup of milk, 1 tablespoonful 
butter, salt and pepper to taste. 

Corn on the Cob 

Let the water be boiling, and add a little salt, drop in the 
corn and boil 10 or 15 minutes. 



VEGETABLES 57 

Com Pudding 

1 pint of scraped or grated corn 1 tablespoonful melted butter 

2 eggs, whites and yolks beaten 1 teaspoonful salt 

separately pepper 

2 cups of cream or rich milk 

Add the corn to the beaten yolks, then the butter, salt, pepper, 
cream; lastly the well beaten whites. Bake in a hot oven, 
being earful to have it cooked on the bottom. 

Succotash 

Boil 1 pint of lima beans until tender, cut J dozen ears of corn 
down the middle and scrape. Drain the beans, add the corn and 
season with salt and pepper; put in 1 tablespoonful butter, and 
cook about 20 minutes. 

Com with Peppers 

Drain a can of corn and chop the kernels somewhat, chopping 
with them two green peppers. Put the liquor back with them 
and cook gently on the back of the stove, adding a little mUk, 
butter and salt. 

Baked Peppers and Com 

Score and scrape from the cobs enough corn to make 1 pint ; 
open 2 sweet green peppers, remove seeds, and shave fine. Put 
com and peppers in baking dish, season with salt, pour over the 
top a cupful of thin cream into which has been beaten 1 egg and 
2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. Bake 40 minutes in quick oven. 

Stuffed Peppers 

Select the sweet Spanish peppers, cut off the stem end, and 
remove the seeds. Mix together for every 4 peppers i cup of 
chicken or veal chopped fine, i cup of bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon- 



58 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

ful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter. Carefully fill the peppers, stand in a 
baking pan, with a little water or stock, and bake 20 minutes 
in a moderately quick oven. 

Boiled Cabbage 

Prepare the cabbage by taking off the outer leaves, cut and 
throw into cold water for an hour or so ; shake, and put in a kettle 
of boiling, salted water, enough to cover it, and boil until tender, 
about 1 hour. It may be cooked in ham liquor with the fat 
skimmed off, or with a piece of bacon or corn beef. Serve with 
a cream sauce. 

Creamed Cabbage 

Cut up a fine head of cabbage, put in a saucepan and cover 
with boiling salted water; let boil 15 minutes, then drain. Pour 
over it a dressing made of: 

i pint vinegar 1 tablespoonful salad oil 

i teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful made mustard 

1 saltspoonful pepper 

Put on fire, let boil, add a teacupful of milk and 1 egg, mix well. 
After pouring on the cabbage, cook 5 minutes. 

Lady's Cabbage 

Cut the cabbage fine, and cook in boiling water | hour. Drain, 
season highly with salt and pepper, and 5 tablespoonfuls milk 
and 1 tablespoonful of butter rubbed with one of flour. Put on 
the fire and cook a few minutes. Serve. 

Brussels Sprouts 

Soak them in cold water for 1 hour. Put then into boiling, 
salted water and cook until tender, for about J hour; drain, put 
in a hot dish, pour over them melted butter, and dust with pepper. 



VEGETABLES 59 

Spinach 

Wash the spinach carefully, getting it free from all grit; put it 
in the pot with a piece of corned beef or bacon, and cook about 
20 minutes. Dust with pepper and salt, and garnish with hard 
boiled egg. Serve in a heated uncovered vegetable dish. 

Stewed Celery- 
Wash the celery, and cut in pieces, stew in a little stock until 
tender, add some cream, butter, with enough flour to thicken the 
cream; season with salt and pepper. 

Cauliflower 

Lay a head of cauliflower in cold water for | hour, shake, and 
put in boiling salted water, cook until tender ; always keep covered 
in the water, and remove the scum. When well done, serve with 
butter and pepper or a cream sauce. It may be garnished with 
small smoked sausage; if so, the green leaves must be left on the 
cauliflower. 

Green Peas 

In shelling, pick out the freshest and greenest pods, place them 
on the fire in 2 quarts of cold water; let them boil well 1 hour. 
Take from the fire, strain out the water, and place the peas in it to 
boil. Boil 20 minutes, take from the fire, strain off the greater 
part of the liquor, add a lump of butter, cream if you prefer, salt 
and pepper. 

Lima Beans 

Wash the beans, put in the saucepan, cover with boiling water, 
salted slightly; boil slowly until tender, drain, pour in a hot dish, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper and butter. 



60 THE CHtJRCH COOK BOOK 

Asparagus 

Wash, scrape, cut off tough ends; tie in bundles, and put in 
boiling water with 1 spoonful salt; boil about J hour, or until 
tender. Lay on slices of toast on a dish, pour melted butter over 
it. Serve hot. 

Stuffed Egg Plant 

Cut a large egg plant in half, remove the center and chop it fine. 
Mix with bread crumbs, 1 teaspoonful each of minced onion and 
parsley, a good sized lump of butter, salt and pepper. Put back 
in the shells. Grate over it a crust of bread, dot with small 
pieces of butter and bake. 

Egg Plant 

Peel and cut the plant in slices, stand in salted water for 1 hour, 
drain and dip each slice in beaten egg and bread crumbs ; fry in hot 
lard until brown. 

Boiled Carrots 

Wash and scrape off the thin skin, they may be left whole, if 
small, or cut in thirds, or in cubes or straws; cook in enough fresh 
boihng salted water to cover, until a fork wiU go through them 
easily. Serve with white sauce, or in a sauce made of stock. 
They may be finely chopped, seasoned with salt, pepper and butter, 
reheated, and pressed closely into a cup or mold and turned out 
on a hot dish. Serve hot. 

To Fry Oyster Plant 

Scrape the roots, throw into cold water to prevent turning 
dark; boil until perfectly tender, mash them through a colander. 
Add butter, salt and pepper; make into small cakes, flour them 
and fry brown. Parsnips may be used in the same way 



VEGETABLES 61 

Parsnips 

Wash and scrape parsnips, cut in quarters, cook in fresh 
boihng salted water until soft. Drain, cut in pieces. Serve with 
white sauce, or mash, and season with salt, pepper and butter. 

Boiled Onions 

Peel under cold water to avoid irritating the eyes; if onions 
are too strong in flavor, change water once or twice during 
cooking. Cook until tender but not broken; drain, add butter, 
salt, pepper, a smaU quantity of milk, and reheat. It is well to 
wash all utensils in cold water, without soap, to remove odor. 

Scalloped Onions 

Arrange boiled onions between the layers of crumbs, using 
thin white sauce to moisten them. Cook 20 minutes covered, 
uncover and brown. 

Boiled Turnips 

Cut off a paring thick enough to remove all the skin, cut in 
quarters, cook in fresh boUing salted water until tender. 
Drain, mash, and season with salt and pepper and butter, or serve 
in white sauce as creamed turnips. 

Fried Cucumbers 

Pare and lay in ice water J hour; cut lengthwise into slices 
nearly ^ inch thick, and lay in ice water 10 minutes longer. Wipe 
each piece dry with a soft cloth. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, 
dredge with flour; fry to a delicate brown in sweet lard, drain 
and serve. 

Hominy 

To 1 quart of large hominy add 1 gallon of water, 1 cup of 
beans, a little salt, and boil it all day, slowly. 



62 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Hominy Pudding 

2 cups cold boiled hominy 3 well beaten eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter 1 cup sweet milk 

Mix thoroughly, season with salt and pepper; bake in buttered 
pan for ^ hour. 

Boston Baked Beans 

1 quart soup beans i teaspoonful mustard 

J pound pork dash cayenne 

J cup molasses 

Soak the beans over night, pour off the water; cook in fresh 
water until beans crack open, put into a bean pot, sprinkle with 
mustard and cayenne; lay the pork on top, scored on the rind, 
pour over all the molasses, cover with boiling water, cover and 
place in the oven, until nearly done, then allow them to bake 
brown. 



SALADS 

Simple salads consist of fresh vegetables which require no cook- 
ing, as lettuce, endive, cress, etc. served with a dressing. Cooked 
vegetables, meat, fish, etc. are also used for salads. French 
dressing is easily prepared, and is suitable for any salad. 

Salads should be prepared daintily, arranged attractively, and 
should always be served cold. 

Lettuce and other salad plants should be fresh, crisp and clean. 
Wash thoroughly, without crushing, leaf by leaf; chiU in very 
cold water until crisp, and dry by placing on a clean towel, so that 
the water will drain from the leaves ; or fold lightly in a towel 
and place on ice until serving time. 

The dressing should not be added to green vegetables until just 
before serving as it wilts them. 

Cooked Salad Dressing 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 egg yolk 

1 teaspoonful mustard i cup scalded milk 

1 tablespoonful sugar i cup hot vinegar 

few grains of cayenne 1 tablespoonful butter 

Scald the ihilk. Mix salt, mustard, sugar and cayenne together 
in a bowl. Add egg yolk and mix thoroughly. Add scalded 
milk slowly, return to double boiler, add the hot vinegar, and 
cook until mixture thickens. Add the butter, stir till melted, 
and strain. Cool before using. If desired thicker use another 
egg yolk, or mix 1 teaspoonful flour with enough of the cold milk 
to make a smooth mixture; add to remainder of the J cup of 
milk and boil 3 minutes before adding to the egg mixture. 



64 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

French Dressing 

i teaspoonful salt J teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar or lemon 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil 
juice 

Mix together and stir thoroughly untU well blended; or dissolve 
salt and pepper in the vinegar and pour it over the salad material. 
Toss lightly with a fork until all is seasoned, then add the oil, 
and mix gently until it is well distributed; 3 or 4 drops of onion 
juice or a few grains of cayenne may be used to vary the 
flavor. 

Shredded Cabbage or Cold Slaw 

Remove wilted leaves and cut a quarter from a small head of 
cabbage and let stand in cold water until crisp. Cut out stalk 
and cut the cabbage into very fine pieces. Serve with cooked 
salad dressing. 

Water Lily Salad 

Remove shells from hard-cooked eggs. Divide eggs into 
halves crosswise, cutting through the whites in such a way that 
the edges will be cut into sharp points. Remove the yolks, put 
them in a bowl, mash them, and season to taste with salt, pepper 
and melted butter, or moisten them with salad dressing. Refill 
the whites with the yolk mixture and arrange the halves on a bed 
of lettuce leaves which have been washed, dried and chilled. 
Serve with cooked salad dressing. Radishes, washed and chilled 
until crisp, may be used to garnish the salad. 

Cream Dressing 

2 eggs i teaspoonful salt 

1 teaspoonful sugar J teaspoonful mustard 

Beat the eggs weU; add sugar, salt and mustard; mix well and 
add 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar and one of cream. Set the bowl con- 
taining this mixture into a pan or kettle of boiling water and stir 



SALADS 65 

until it thickens. This dressing should be perfectly cold before 
using it and is nice for cauliflower, cabbage, or asparagus. 

French Mustard 

1 box good mustard 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful olive oil 1 saltspoqnful black pepper 

1 tablespoonful of sugar 

Six large onions cut in thin slices, pour over them 1 pint of 
cider vinegar, let stand imtil the next day, strain and mix into 
it the mustard, sugar, salt and pepper ; then drop in the oil. Mix 
in a bowl and set in a pan of hot water; stir constantly untU 
thick; put in a jar and it will keep for years. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

Have all the ingredients and utensils chilled. Put the yolk of a 
hard boiled egg and a raw one carefully freed from the whites, in a 
bowl ; add half a teaspoonful salt, and stir until the yolks are well a 
mixed; add the oil drop by drop, constantly stirring in the same 
direction, adding a drop or two of vinegar as it is needed, that is, 
when the emulsion looks oily. As the mixture becomes thick, the 
oil may be added faster, stirring, not beating, adding acid enough 
only to keep the dressing from separating. Season with pepper 
and lemon juice, and add tablespoonful ice water. 

Chicken Salad Dressing 

10 hard boiled eggs J teaspoonful cayene 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar 6 tablespoonfuls of olive oil 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 cup cream 

1 teaspoonful black pepper 1 cup vinegar 

2 teaspoonfuls mustard 

Cream the yolks of the eggs with the oU; add sugar, salt, pepper 
and mustard; then vinegar, lastly the cream. Put in a double 



66 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

boiler; stir until thick. Chop whites of the eggs into the chicken 
and add one-third as much celery as chicken. 

Salmon Salad 
Place on a bed of lettuce leaves, in a flat salad bowl, the con- 
tents of i can of salmon, freed from oil and bones, and flaked. 
Pour over the fish a little boiled salad dressing or mayonnaise, 
and garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg and lemon. 

Lobster Salad 

Cut the boiled lobster into good-sized pieces and marinate with 
a French dressing, then set aside until ready to serve. For each 
pint of salad add 1 dozen olives cut into strips and ^ cup of 
thick mayonnaise. Line the salad bowl with blanched lettuce 
leaves and on them heap the prepared lobster. Cover with a 
thick mayonnaise and serve cold. 

Shrimp Salad 
Take a can of shrimps, open and turnout at once. Wash 
thoroughly in cold water, and dry. When ready to serve, cut 
the shrimps into small pieces, cover with mayonnaise dressing 
and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

Walnut Salad 
Crack J pound of English walnuts in halves and cover with 
lemon juice, after standing in the juice for 1 hour, pick out and 
serve on watercress with French dressing. 

Fruit Salad 

1 stalk of celery J pound Malaga grapes 

3 apples 

Cut up celery and apples, halve the grapes, remove the seeds, 
mix together and over all pour mayonnaise. Serve on crisp let- 
tuce leaves. 



SALADS 67 

Grape Fruit Salad 

Cut in halves; with a spoon remove the pulp in as large pieces 
as possible; do not leave any seeds in it. Make a syrup of J cup- 
ful sugar, 1 tablespoonful boiling water and 2 tahlespoonfuls of 
sherry. When cooljadd to it 2 more tahlespoonfuls sherry and 1 
teaspoonful rum. Mix with the pulp. The shells must have all 
the skin and pith removed and kept on ice. Just before serving 
fill the shells with the pulp. It must be chilled. 

Pineapple Salad 

Cut off the top of pineapple, and remove all the heart of the 
fruit, leaving the shell whole. Shred the pineapple, add pecan 
nuts or English walnuts, mix with mayonnaise, put back in the 
shell. Serve in the shell. 

Tartare Sauce 

To one cup of mayonnaise dressing, add one tablespoonful of 
capers, one of chopped cucumber pickles, one of chopped parsley, 
and one teaspoonful of onion juice. Mix well and serve. 

Egg Sauce 

Rub the yolks of two hard boiled eggs through a sieve, add to 
them a teaspoonful of French mustard, a pinch of salt and four 
tahlespoonfuls of soft (not melted) butter. Cut the whites of 
the eggs in thin rings, and place about the edge of the dish. 

Chicken Salad 

1 well boiled chicken 2 hard boiled eggs 

2 bunches celery 

Remove skin and chop the meat in small pieces ; cut celery and 
chop the eggs and mix all together; add pepper, salt and a dash 



68 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

of cayenne. Make a dressing of 2 raw eggs, beaten, J teaspoon- 
ful salt, 4 even teaspoonfuls sugar, saltspoonful pepper, J cup 
vinegar, 1 teaspoonful mustard. Beat all together to consist- 
ency of cream ; if too stiff add milk, or dress salad with regular 
mayonnaise with oil. 

Potato Salad 

Boil potatoes and when cold remove the skins, cut in cubes. 
For 3 cups of potatoes mix 1 cup of celery; cut in small pieces, 
season with pepper and salt. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise 
and garnish with parsley. 

Tomato Salad 

Take small, well shaped tomatoes; skin them cold; cut off 
a circular piece from the stem end, remove the seeds with the 
finger, and fill with finely chopped celery sprinkled with salt. 
Put on a plate with crisp lettuce leaves and cover with mayon- 
naise. 

Tomato Aspic 

1 pint tomatoes, strained 1 teaspoonful onion juice 

1 teaspoonful salt J box of gelatine 

1 saltspoonful pepper 

Mix all together, stand for half an hour, bring to boiling point. 
Pour into small molds, when hard serve on crisp lettuce leaves, 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

Fish Salad 

Pick bones from any cold large fish, season with mustard, 
pepper, salt and lemon juice; add small piece of butter and mois- 
ten with cream ; put in a saucepan and stir gently until it sim- 
mers. When cold put on lettuce, garnished with hard boiled egg. 



SALADS 69 

Apple and Nut Salad 

2 bundles cdery J pound English walnuts 

2 large apples 

Cut celery and apples into small pieces, add nuts. Garnish 
with fringed celery tops, and pass mayonnaise. 

To fringe celery tops, cut in pieces 2 or 3 inches long. Slash 
the ends and stand in cold water for an hour or so to curl. 

Cucumber Salad 

Pare, slice and lay in ice water for an hour, drain and serve 
with French dressing poured over them. 

Asparagus Salad 

Take cold boiled asparagus, chill and serve with French dress- 
mg. 

String Bean Salad 

Boil until tender, chill, and serve with French dressing. 
Egg and Beet Salad 

Remove the shells from hard boiled eggs, cut in halves, and 
season the yolks, with salt, pepper, melted butter, and moisten 
with a little vinegar, dip the white shells in the juice of the beets 
and color a deep pink. Garnish with the pickled beets cut in 
dice. 

Salad a la Heney 

Peel and cut in slices 4 oranges and arrange on lettuce leaves ; 
over the oranges put ^ pineapple finely shredded; on the pine- 
apple put i pound Tokay grapes, cut in halves and seeded. 
Make a dressing with the juice of an orange, twice as much olive 
oil as orange juice, a saltspoonful of salt, a sprinkle of paprika. 
The addition of pecan nuts to this salad is considered an improve- 
ment. 



CEREALS 

All cereals may be used for mush, and by using more water, 
may be made into gruel. Cbld mushes may be sliced, dipped 
into flour, and browned in a small quantity of smoking hot fat. 

Directions for Making Mush and Gruels 

Use a double boiler; put the required quantity of boiling water 
and salt in the upper part of the double boiler, place directly 
upon stove, and when the water boUs rapidly, stir the cereal slowly 
into it. If cereal is a coarse meal, stir it in dry ; if it is a fine meal 
or flour, wet it with an equal quantity of cold water before stirring 
it into the boUing water. 

Cook directly over the heat 10 minutes, stirring constantly; 
then place upper part of double boiler over the lower part, which 
should be one-third full of boiling water; keep the water boil- 
ing. The time for cooking depends upon the cereal used ; long 
cooking improves the flavor, and makes it more digestible. Do 
not stir more than once while over the boiling water. If mush 
or gruel requires thinning, use boiling water. 

Granulated wheat preparations, as wheat germ, wheatlet, 
etc., need nearly four times their bulk of water. To prevent 
lumping, sprinkle slowly into the boiling water, stirring con- 
stantly. Boil 10 minutes over stove or gas, and cook over 
boiling water 20 to 30 minutes. 

Shredded wheat biscuits have already been thoroughly cooked; 
they may be used as a breakfast cereal by dipping quickly into 
boiling water, and heating in the oven between buttered plates ; 
serve with milk or cream and sugar. 



CEEEAL8 71 

Rolled Oats or .Rolled Wheat 

1 cup rolled oats or wheat 2 cups boiling water 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Pick over the cereal, and remove foreign substances; follow 
directions for making mush. Boil 10 minutes, stirring con- 
stantly, then cook over boiling water 20 to 30 minutes or longer. 
Serve with cream or milk, and sugar. Steamed apples and 
rolled oats make an agreeable combination. 

The rolled oats being crushed and partially cooked, need less 
cooking than coarse oatmeal. 

Coarse Oatmeal 

1 cup oatmeal 5 cups boiling water 

IJ ^teaspoonful salt 

Look over the meal; follow directions for rolled oats, cooking 
from 8 to 12 hours. It may be cooked the day before it is needed, 
and reheated, adding more water if necessary. 

Oatmeal Gruel No. 1 

i cup rolled oats J teaspoonful salt 

1 cup boiling water 1 cup milk 

Prepare as for mush; cook in a sauce pan 30 minutes, stirring 
all the time, or in a double boiler 1 to 2 hours ; strain the gruel, 
add the mUk, and heat just to the boiling point. Serve hot, with 
1 tablespoonful sugar, and a sprinkle of nutmeg, if desired. 

Cold oatmeal mush may be used to make gruel by adding more 
water and reheating. It may be served straiiied or unstrained. 

Oatmeal Gruel No. 2 

i cup coarse oatmeal IJ to 2 cups of cold water or 

i teaspoonful salt milk 

Roll or pound the meal until floury; add one-third of the water, 
stir well, and let settle a few seconds; pour the milky-looking 



72 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

water into a saucepan; repeat twice, using remaining water, 
being careful each time not to allow any of the coarse portions 
to go into sauce pan. Boil 30 minutes, stirring, to prevent burn- 
ing. Add milk to make of desired consistency, and proceed as 
in Gruel No. 1. 

Molded Commeal 

1 cup cornmeal 1 cup of cold milk 

1 tablespoonful of flour 2 cups of boiling water 

1 tablespoonful salt 

Mix dry ingredients, add cold milk until smooth, then add 
boiling water. Cook directly over stove or gas 10 minutes, stir- 
ring all the time to prevent burning. Cook 1 or 2 hours over boil- 
ing water. If wanted for frying, turn into a wet pan to stiffen; 
cover to keep a hard crust from forming. When cold cut in 
slices i inch thick; dip each slice in flour, and brown in enough 
smoking hot fat to keep from burning. Serve hot. May be 
eaten with synip or molasses, or caramel sauce or not as pre- 
ferred. 



BREAD 

White Bread 

1 pint milk 1 pint of water 

1 compressed yeast cake 1 level teaspoonful of salt 

Scald the milk, add the water, and, when lukewarm, add the 
yeast cake, dissolved, and the salt. Mix and add 1 quart of good 
strong flour; beat 5 minutes; then continue adding the flour, stir- 
ring aU the while until you have the dough sufficiently thick for 
kneading. Dust the board with flour, turn out the dough and 
knead thoroughly imtil it is soft and elastic and perfectly free 
from stickiness. Do not add too much flour at a time; it is the 
kneading that removes the stickiness, not the flour. The bread is 
dry and tasteless where too much flour is added. The grain will 
be finer and the dough whiter and more elastic, if you devote the 
last 5 minutes to pounding with a good strong potato masher, or 
you may take the dough in your hand and drop it on the board. 
Put this back into the bowl or pan, cover and stand in a warm 
place (75°) for 3 hours. Now turn it out on the board, and 
carefully cut into 4 loaves. Mold each, put into greased pans, 
either the long French or the square pans, cover and stand aside 
1 hour; if in the square pans bake in a moderately quick oven 
(indicator at 8) for about | hour; if in the long French pans, in 
a quick oven (indicator at 9, temperature 400°) for 30 minutes. 
Where home made yeast is used, sponge must be made at night 
using J cupful of yeast. The dough must be kneaded early in 
the morning. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 



74 THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 

Home Made Yeast 

Pare and grate 4 good-sized potatoes into 1 quart of boiling 
water, and boil 5 minutes, stirring constantly. When cool, add 
J cup of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of salt, and 1 compressed yeast 
cake in ^ cup of cool water, or J cup of yeast that you have saved 
from the previous brewing. Turn the mixture in a stone or glass 
jar, cover and stand in a warm place (68°) for at least 3 hours, 
stirring down the mixture each time it comes to the top of the 
vessel. 

When fermentation has ceased, cover the jar closely and stand 
in a cool place to keep. 

Caution: The yeast must not be allowed to fall; it must be 
stirred down. It must be put into a cool place as soon as fermen- 
tation ceases. A large bottle is a good and convenient receptacle 
for keeping. Save J cupful of this yeast to start the next brew- 
ing. It will keep in a cool place in the winter for 3 weeks; in the 
summer, 10 days to 2 weeks. A cupful of this yeast will make 4 
loaves of bread; sponge made at night. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

Twentieth Century Bread 

1 pint of milk 1 pint of water 

1 compressed yeast cake 1 level teafipoonful salt 

This bread, of course, is made from whole wheat flour. The 
liquids used may be either milk, or milk and water, or aU water. 
Scald the milk, 180°, being very careful not to allow it to boil. 
Scald and add the water. When the mixture is lukewarm, add 
the yeast, dissolved in 4 tablespoonfuls of cool sterilized water, 
the salt, and then stir in sufficient whole wheat flour (about 1 quart) 
to make a stiff batter. Beat continuously for 5 minutes, lifting 
the dough into the air and folding it over. Remove the spoon 



bebaB 75 

and scrape down the sides of the bowl; cover with a cloth or in 
a bread pan with the ordinary tin cover, and stand in a warm 
place (75°) in winter for 3 hours; in summer 2^ hours. By this 
time the mixture will be light and spongy. Stir in, slowly, suffi- 
cient whole wheat flour to make a dough. Turn this out on the 
bread board, which has been slightly dusted with flour, knead 
continuously until the dough is soft and elastic and has lost its 
stickiness. With a sharp knife, cut the dough into 4 portions; 
mold each into a loaf; put into greased square pans, cover and 
stand in the same warm place 1 hour, or until the dough has 
doubled its bulk and feels very light when lifted. Brush the 
top carefuUy with warm water using for the purpose the pastry 
brush, and place it in moderately quick oven (360°) for f hour. 
When done, tiu-n at once from the pans, resting the loaves so that 
the air will pass around them, ^nd when perfectly cool, put them 
into a clean tin bread box. 

If home made yeast is used, add a cupful, making the sponge at 
night; stand it in a warm place (about 60°) from, say 10 o'clock 
until 5 or 6 the next morning. Add flour and knead it and mold 
at once into loaves. The time for second standing must also be 
increased from 1 to 2 or 3 hours. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

Graham Bread 

To make one loaf of Graham bread take 1 pint of whole wheat 
sponge when it is light and ready for kneading, add to it a table- 
poonful of molasses, and sufficient Graham flour to make a stiff 
batter; beat thoroughly, turn into a square greased pan, and 
when it has doubled its bulk and is light in weight, bake it in a 
moderate oven (300°) about | hour. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 



76 THE CHUKCH COOK BOOK 

Rye Bread 

1 pint of milk 1 pint of water 

1 yeast cake 1 level teaspoonful of salt 

The manipulation of this bread is precisely the same as for 
whole wheat bread. Follow the recipe for whole wheat bread, 
substituting in your mind the word "rye" for" whole wheat." 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Borer. 

Oatmeal Bread 

2 cups of Quaker oats tablespoonful lard 

1 cup of molasses salt 

Pour over 1 quart of boiling water and let stand until cool; 1 
yeast cake dissolved in a cup of lukewarm water, and add enough 
white flour to handle. 

Boston Brown Bread 

3 cups cornmeal 1 teaspoonful soda 

2 cups of sweet milk 1 teaspoonful salt 
1 cup of sour milk IJ cups white flour 

1 cup of molasses 

Dissolve one-half the soda in the sour milk, one-half in the 
molasses. Mix aU well, boil in tin molds 3 hours and then dry 
a few minutes in the oven. 

Potato Egg Rolls 

2 cups of potatoes boiled and 1 tablespoonful sugar 

mashed through a colander 1 cup yeast or one cake compressed 

1 scant cup of lard, melted yeast 

3 eggs 1 teaspoonful salt 

Mix well and allow the sponge to rise about 2 hours; knead in 
enough flour to make a soft dough; let rise about 1 hour, then 
roll and cut into portions for roUs; place in pans so the portions do 
not touch and bake about 8 minutes in a quick oven. 



BREAD 77 

Potato Rolls 

2 good sized white potatoes boiled Itablespoonful melted butter 

and mashed 1 tablespoonful white sugar 

1 cup sweet milk, slightly warmed i teaspoonful soda 

J cup yeast or J cake compressed i teaspoonful salt 

yeast 

Mix mashed potatoes, milk and yeast with enough flour to 
make a thin batter, and let rise 4 hours. Add butter, salt, 
sugar, and soda, and flour enough to make a soft dough. Let 
rise 2 hours. Roll the dough out to about ^ inch thickness. 
Cut into pieces about 4 by 3 inches, turn one of the longer sides 
just over the other, and pinch down; place in a bread pan and 
bake 20 minutes in a quick oven. 

Parker House Rolls 

1 quart of sweet milk (heated) 1 tablespoonful butter 

i cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful lard J cake compressed yeast 

Mix all the ingredients except the yeast in the heated milk; 
let cool and add the yeast; add sufficient flour sifted to make a 
soft dough ; let rise about 4 hours, or until light ; and roU out with- 
out kneading; spread with butter, cut and fold; let rise about 2 
hours and bake in a hot oven. 

Parker House Rolls 

2 quarts flour, sifted 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 large tablespoonful sweet lard enough boiled milk (cold) to 

1 cupful fresh yeast make a soft dough 

Rub sugar, flour and lard together, and into the center pour 
the milk and yeast. Do not work up ; let rise over night. In 
the morning mix to a soft dough and let rise until light; roll out 
the dough to | inch thick, and cut into circular pieces. Fold 
half the circle on itself; place a piece of butter in the fold. Fold 



78 THE CHUKCH COOK BOOK 

the other half to meet the first fold, placing the butter beneath it. 
Bake in a hot oven until light brown. 

White Rolls 

1 pint milk 4 ounces of lard 

3 pints flour J cake compressed yeast, dissolved 

1 teaspoonful salt in J cup water 

1 teaspoonful sugar 

Scald milk vmtil a thin scum forms, and set aside to cool. 
Mix flour, salt, sugar and lard thoroughly. Make a well in the 
center. Add the yeast and water to the lukewarm mUk and pour 
into the well. Do not stir or mix, but with yoiu- finger. Toss a 
little of the flour over the surface of the-mUk; cover and stand in 
a warm place for 4 hours. This should be done about 10 o 'clock 
a. m. After 4 hours stir in the flour; knead thoroughly, adding 
as little extra flour as possible. When the dough has lost its 
stickiness, pound it 15 minutes, knead up, and put back in vessel ; 
cover, put in a warm place until very light ; roll out on board ^ inch 
thick; cut with round cutter; brush one-half lightly with butter, 
fold the other half over, place in a greased pan, cover and stand 
in a warm place f hour. Bake in a quick oven 15 minutes. 

French Rolls 

1 quart flour J compressed yeast cake dissolved 

1 tablespoonful butter in i cup cold water 

IJ level tablespoonful sugar scant pint milk 

1 tablespoonful mashed potatoes 1 egg 

Knead in soft dough, mold in small balls, putting 3 in each 
muffin ring. Bake when light. 

Cinnamon Buns 

Take any good raised dough, rolled in a sheet about J inch 
thick; sprinkle thickly with granulated sugar and ground cinna- 



BREAD 79 

mon; roll it and cut in inch slices. Set to rise and when light 
bake in a hot oven. 

Currant Buns 

2 cups raised dough i teaspoonful soda 

1 cup of sugar 1 cup dried currants 
J cup of melted butter nutmeg 

flour 

Mix all together thoroughly with hands, adding sufficient flour 
to make it stiff enough to mold. Set to rise. Work in 1 cup of 
currants, wash and rubbed in flour. Mold with your hands into 
balls, set close together in pans, and stand until light. Bake in 
moderate oven until brown. Glaze with hot milk, beaten egg 
and sugar. 

Sweet Rusk 

2 quarts flour, sifted 4 eggs 

1 cup butter | cup lard 

2 cups sugar 1 cup of yeast 

Beat the eggs, lukewarm milk, butter, lard and sugar, into the 
flour; then the yeast, and set to rise. Sweet rusk, if to be used 
at night should be mixed early in the morning and set to rise 
about 3 o'clock; work them out as you would rolls, and set for a 
second rising. Bake in a tolerably quick oven. 

Maryland Biscuit 

1 quart of winter wheat flour 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 large tablespoonful lard J pint ice water 

Rub the lard into the flour; add the salt; add gradually the 
water, which wUl make a stiff dough; pound it with an axe on a 
biscuit block untU it will break off short and is smooth ; cut it up 
in small pieces, and work into round biscuits; stick with a fork, 
stand in baking pan so they will not touch each other, and bake 
in quick oven 20 minutes. 



80 THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

1 quart of flour 2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking pow- 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter or lard der 

1 pint milk i teaspoonful salt 

Sift baking powder and salt in flour, add shortening and mix 
thoroughly ; then the cold mUk. Mix quickly and lightly ; handle 
as little as possible. The dough must be just stiff enough to roll 
out. RoU in sheets f inch thick; cut in circular cakes; put in 
greased pans dusted with floiu', just far enough apart not to 
touch, and bake 15 or 20 minutes in quick oven. 

Soda Biscuit 

3 pints of flour 1 heaping tablespoonful lard 
1 teaspoonful of soda pinch of salt 

1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar 1 pint of sour milk 

Sift flom- with soda and cream of tartar several times; add salt, 
then rub in the lard; add gradually the milk; work it well and 
cut into biscuits and bake in quick oven. 

Sally Lunn 

1 pint flour (sifted) 1 teacup milk 
butter half as large as an egg § teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful baking powder 
1 egg 

Mix and bake 20 minutes in oven. 

Sally Lunn 

1 pint of boiled milk 4 tablespoonfuls of yeast 

1 tablespoonful of butter 2 eggs, beaten very light 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar flour, to make a thick batter 

Set to rise about 10 o 'clock in the morning for tea. 



BREAD 81 

Popovers 

2 cups of milk 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 cups of flour 3 eggs 

Beat the eggs without separating until very light, then add the 

milk and salt. Add this little by little to the flour to prevent its 

being lumpy ; strain it through a sieve, and beat it well ; fill well hot 

greased pans half full. Bake in quick oven 20 minutes. Serve hot 

as a breakfast muffin. The hollow space in the middle may be 

filled with rich custard and used as cream puffs when cold, or 

with a hot sauce, or filled with jam. This quantity makes 16 

popovers. 

Breakfast Gems 

2 cups of flour 2 teaspoonfuls melted butter 

1 cup of milk 1 teaspoonful sugar 

2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder i teaspoonful salt 

Bake in gem pans in a quick oven. 

MufSns 

2 cups of milk 2 teaspoonfuls yeast powder 

3 cups of flour (sifted) 1 scant teaspoonful salt 
2 eggs 

Sift the ingredients into a bowl. Beat the eggs, pour the milk 

into them and stir in the flour gradually to make a smooth batter. 

Bake in greased gem pans for about J hour. 

MufSns (fine) 

J of cake of yeast 1 tabespoonful sugar 

i cup milk (large) 1 teaspoonful salt (small) 

1 tablespoonful butter IJ cup flour (sifted) 
1 egg 

Heat the milk barely lukewarm and dissolve yeast and butter 
in it. Then add to the beaten egg sugar and salt; add flour to 



82 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

right stiff batter. Leave in greased mufBn rings over night in 
warm room. It should not be set to rise before 10 o'clock at night. 

MufQns 

2 cups of milk 1 teaspoonful salt, and pinch of 

1 cup of cold water soda 

2 eggs 1 tablespoonful sugar 

1 yeast cake flour to make a stiff batter 

Mix all the ingredients except the eggs into a sponge, and set 
to rise over night, dissolving the yeast cake in lukewarm water. 
In the morning, beat the eggs very light, put in mixture and 
beat well with a spoon, add the soda dissolved in a little hot water, 
and bake in quick oven in gem pans. 

English Muffins 

1 pint milk i cake of compressed yeast 

IJ pint flour 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful butter 

Heat the milk, add butter and cool. When lukewarm, dissolve 
the yeast, salt and flour, and beat well. Set to rise for 2 hours, 
add suflBcient flour to make a soft dough. Cut in small pieces, 
and roll into balls, and set to lighten on a griddle in a warm place. 
When light, bake on the griddle, turning only once. 

Hominy Muffins 

2 cups of boiled hominy 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 
2 cupfuls sour milk or cream 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

i cupful melted butter 1 teaspoonful soda 

2 cups flour 3 



Beat hominy smooth with melted butter, milk, salt, sugar, well 
beaten eggs, soda dissolved in hot water, and flour. Beat hard 
for 2 minutes after aU is mixed. Put in greased mufiins tins and 
bake in .quick oven, 



BREAD 83 

Commeal Muffins 

2 cups of corn meal 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
1 cup of flour 3 eggs, beaten light 

3 cups of milk 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter 

Sift the dry ingredients into a bowl; beat the eggs and add the 
milk to them, and stir into the dry mixture and then the melted 
butter; pour into greased mufBn rings and bake in quick oven. 

Corn Muffins 

1 pint of buttermilk 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 heaping teaspoonful of soda 2 eggs 

Dissolve the soda in a little warm water ; put into the butter- 
milk with the salt; the eggs very light. Mix together ; beat in 
enough meal to make a tolerably thin butter. Bake in muffin 
rings and serve as soon as baked. 

Waffies 

Mix, at night, 1 pint of milk, i yeast cake, 1 pint of flour, and i 
teaspoonful of salt. In the morning add 1 tablespoonful of melted 
butter and 2 eggs. Bake quickly on a hot waffle iron. 

Waffies 

1 pint of flour 1 saltspoonful salt 

2 eggs 1 tablespoonful of butter or lard 
IJ teaspoonful baking powder 

Sweet milk to make a thin batter. 

Rice Waffies 

Stir into 2 pints of well boiled or soft rice 1 large spoonful of 
butter and a pinch of salt, when cool add 2 eggs well beaten, 1 pint 
milk, 1 pint sifted flour, ^ cake yeast; let it stand 1 or 2 hours 
and then bake on a waffle iron. 



84 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Buckwheat Cakes 

1 quart of buckwheat flour (sifted) 2 tablespoonfuls molasses (not eyr- 

4 tablespoonfuls yeast or J cake of up) 

compressed yeast warm water, enough for a thin 

1 teaspoonful salt batter 

2 tablespoonfuls com meal 

Mix the meal in the buckwheat, stir in gradually enough wann 
water to make a moderately thick batter, then stir in the yeast. 
Set to rise over night. In the morning, add the salt, lastly 
molasses. Beat thoroughly. Thin with a little water if neces- 
sary, or if too thin, add a little more buckwheat flour; if it should 
be the least sour dissolve a little soda in hot water and put in. 

Griddle Cakes 

1 pint of flour 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder 

2 eggs pinch of salt 
1 pint of milk 

Have the griddle hot. Sift the dry ingredients together. 
Beat the eggs, add the milk, sour milk or cream may be used, but 
if so, put in 1 level teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water and 
make a smooth batter; pour by spoonful on griddle and cook to 
a light brown, turning only once. The cakes may be made in the 
same way only adding a cup of boiled rice, canned,corn or hominy, 
or ^ pint of Graham flour, bread crumbs or rye flour with i pint 
of white flour for variety. 

Com Meal Griddle Cakes 
1 pint of scalded milk 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cup of com meal 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder 

1 cup of flour 1 tablespoonful sugar 

2 eggs 

Scald the meal with the boiling milk add the sugar and stir 
well and cool, sift in the remaining dry ingredients; lastly the 
well beaten eggs, and bake immediately. 



BREAD 85 

Commeal Griddle Cakes, Sour Milk 

1 quart of sour milk 2 eggs, beaten 

1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in salt 

hot water 

Mix in enough sifted meal to make a thin batter. 

Pancakes 

1 pint of flour 1 level saltspoonful salt 

4 eggs (beaten separately) milk to make a thin batter 

2 level teaspoonfuls baking powder 

Beat the egg, stir in the milk, sift in the flour, salt and baking 
powder ; lastly the weU-beaten whites. Bake on a griddle over 
a quick, clear fire, first on one side, then on the other. Serve im- 
mediately, pass sugar and ground cinnamon, mixed in the pro- 
portion of 5 tablespoonfuls sugar to 1 of cinnamon. 

Caramel Syrup for Griddle Cakes 

Melt 1 cup of granulated sugar, stirring it until a light brown. 
Add 1 cup boiling water, stir and boil up once. 

Fritter Batter 

1 pint of flour 1 cup of milk • 

i teaspoonful of salt 2 eggs 

1 tablespoonful butter melted 

Sift the flour, add the salt. Beat the egg separately to the yolk, 
add the mUk and stir in the flour, then the melted butter. Beat 
the white stiff and beat into the batter and fry in deep hot fat. 

Rice Fritters 

Cook J pound of rice soft, when cool add 3 eggs, i pound flour, 
1 teaspoonful of yeast powder, sugar to the taste, and water 
enough to make a thick batter. Cook by dropping a spoonful at 
a time in boiling lard. 



86 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Banana Fritters 

4 eggs pinch salt 

1 pint milk flour for a thin batter 

Beat the eggs into the milk, add salt and flour. Stir in thickly 
bananas sliced thin. Fry in hot lard in which has been dropped a 
lump of butter; drain on brown paper. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. 

Hoecake 

1 quart of meal enough wann water to make a 

2 tablespoonfuls melted lard thick batter 
2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Mix the salt with the meal, pour in water, and lastly the melted 
lard, beat thoroughly, and bake in greased pan in quick oven. 

Com Bread 

1 pint corn meal 1 teaspoonful sugar 

1 pint milk 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

1 pint water 2 eggs 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful of lard 

Mix salt and baking powder with sifted flour, into which rub 
the lard; beat the eggs light and add mUk and water, then the 
flour. Bake in tins in quick oven tiU brown. 

Com Pone 

1 pint com meal 1 pint boiling water 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 tablespoonful brown sugar 2 tablespoonfuls butter or lard 

1 tablespoonful baking powder 3 eggs well beaten 

Scald the meal with the boUing water, and let it stand until 
cold. Sift the other ingredients into a bowl. Separate the eggs, 
beat the yolks and add the milk to them; stir the milk and eggs 
into the scalded meal gradually and beat well. Then add the dry 
ingredients, the melted butter, and lastly fold in the well beaten 
whites. Bake in hot oven. 



BREAD 87 

Spoon Batter Bread 

Take 2 cupfuls of water, 1 saltspoonful salt, and bring to a boil 
and stir in slowly 1 cup of sifted cornmeal and 1 tablespoonful of 
lard and butter mixed. Stir until it thickens and set aside to 
cool. When cool, mash in this 3 eggs one at a time, and when 
well mixed add 1 cup rich, sweet milk, mix smooth, cook on top 
of stove for a few minutes in a deep dish and brown in the oven. 

Rice Com Bread 

1 cup meal scalded in 2 cups boil- IJ cups milk 

ing water 1 cup boiled rice 

1 saltspoonful salt 2 eggs, beaten separately 
1 heaping tablespoonful butter 

Pie Crust 

1 quart of flour, sifted i teaspoonful salt 

i pound of lard enough ice water to make a stiff 

} pound of butter dough 

Sift the flour into a bowl, mix with the salt and then the lard. 
Chop half the butter up fine into the flour, wet with the ice water 
to a stiff dough. Flour the hands, and make the dough into a 
lump with as little handling as possible. Put it on a marble slab 
and roU into a sheet J of an inch. Always roll from you, with as 
little pressure as possible. Stick little pieces of butter over it, 
dredge with flour, roU up, and roll out again, and stand in a cold 
place, for several hotirs if you have the time^ When ready to 
bake roU out thin again, butter the pie plate, lay the paste lightly 
on it. You may save enough for a top crust, or stripe the tops 
with paste, or nOt at aU according to the ingredients to be used. 
Bake in a moderate oven, being careful to have the bottom as hot 
as the top. If a richer crust be desired, increase the proportions 
of lard and butter. 



88 THE CHTJECH COOK: BOOK 

Croutons 

Cut bread a day or more old into I inch cubes. Put in pan and 
bake in a moderate oven until light brown. Stir occasionally to 
prevent burning. 

Dried Bread Crumbs 

Dry pieces of stale bread in a warm oven until crisp, but not 
brown. Crush fine with a rolling-pin; sift, and when quite cold, 
store in glass jars, to use in covering croquettes, etc., for frying. 
Tie double cheese-cloth over the top of jars, instead of the usual 
covers, as the crumbs are less likely to acquire a stale taste and 
odor. 

Dry Toast 

Cut stale bread into slices i of an inch thick; dry first on one 
side then on the other by holding it several inches above a clear 
fire; then hold nearer the fire, moving it from side to side to avoid 
scorching, and toast until a delicate brown. 

Water Toast 

Allow ^ teaspoonful salt to 1 cup boiling water. Dip slices of 

dry toast quickly into the salted water; spread with butter, and 

serve hot. 

White or Cream Sauce for Toast 

1 cup milk • 1 teaspoonful butter 

1 tablespoonful flour or i table- i teaspoonful salt 
spoonful cornstarch 

Reserve 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, cold; scald the remainder; 
mix flour or cornstarch with cold mUk, until smooth; -add hot 
mUk slowly, stirring aU the time; boil 5 minutes; add butter and 
salt ; serve hot. This quantity of sauce is sufficient for from 4 to 
6 slices of toast. Pour sauce between and over slices. Toast 



fiREAB 8& 

may or may not be dipped in salted water before adding sauce, 
as preferred. 

Milk Toast 

Milk toast is made as water toast, substituting hot milk for the 
water. After dipping the shces, the remaining milk is poured 
over them. 

Cream Toast 

Substitute cream for milk, or thicken milk to the consistency 
of cream, with flour or cornstarch. 



SANDWICHES 

Use bread a day old. Remove the crust from a loaf of bread 
and cut in thin slices, they may be cut in fancy shapes, or diag- 
onally across the slices, being very careful to keep them even. 
Put in piles on a plate and cover with a damp cloth or wrap 
them in paraffin paper. 

Filling for Sandwiches 

A nice filling for sandwiches is made from slices of thin bacon 
fried and rubbed to a paste in butter. 

Nut Sandwiches 

1 cupful finely chopped nuts 1 saltspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls olive oil dash cayenne 

1 teaspoonful mixed mustard juice of 1 lemon 

Mix all together thoroughly, and spread on thin slices of 
Boston brown bread. 

Egg Sandwich 

Chop the whites of the hard boiled eggs very fine. Mix the 
yolks smooth with mayonnaise. Mix together and spread. 

Cheese Sandwich 

Grate th'e cheese ; rub it to a paste with melted butter. Season 
with salt and pepper and spread. 

Nut and Cheese Sandwich 

Mix equal parts of cream cheese and English walnuts, chopped 
fine, season with a little salt, and spread. 



Sandwiches 91 

Nut and Fruit Sandwich 

Mix equal parts of English walnuts, chopped fine with chopped 
figs and spread on thin slices of bread. 

Lettuce or Cress Sandwiches 

Butter thin slices of bread, put on mayonnaise and fill with 
crisp lettuce leaves or cress. 

Cucumber Sandwiches 

Pare and slice the cucumbers, stand in cold water for 1 hour, 
spread the dressing on the bread and fill with slices of cucum- 
ber. 

Sardine Sandwiches 

Drain the oil from a can of sardines, remove the skin, mash to a 
paste, add a teaspoonful lemon juice, and spread on thin slices of 
bread. 

Chicken or Ham Sandwiches 

Take J pound of butter and rub into it a little mustard and 
spread on thin slices of bread, using as a filling the minced white 
meat of chicken or ham. 



Club Sandwiches 

3 slices of bread, toasted. On one side place a lettuce leaf, and 
on that a slice of the breast of chicken, then put another slice of 
toast with another lettuce leaf, followed by thin slice of broiled 
breakfast bacon, topped with a third slice of toast. Finish the 
the sandwich with a thin slice of pickle, cut lengthwise of the 
cucumber. The bread and bacon should be hot. 



92 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Apple Sandwiches 

Take 2 thin slices of bread buttered, and place between them a 
thin slice of tart apple, which has been steeped in a mixture of 
lemon juice and sugar for an hour. 

Fig Sandwich 

i pound finely chopped figs J cupful boiling water 

J cupful sugar 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 

Mix these ingredients, and cook in double boiler untU thick 
enough to spread. Spread between thin slices of bread. 

Olive Sandwiches 

Between thin slices of buttered bread place a layer of Neuf- 
chatel cheese mixed to a paste with equal quantities of cream and 
salad dressing and covered thickly with chopped olives. 

Salted Almonds 
Blanch the almonds and sprinkle with salt while damp, melt a 
large lump of butter in a baking pan, poiir the nuts into the pan, 
and toast a delicate brown in a quick oven. 

Salted Peanuts 
Shell the nuts and remove all the brown skins. To a cup of 
nuts put 1 tablespoonful of olive oil or butter; let stand for 1 
hoiu", then sprinkle over them 1 tablespoonful of salt. Spread on 
tin pans and brown carefully in a moderate oven. 




BUTTER AND MILK 

Devonshire Cream 

Put 3 or 4 quarts of fresh milk in a large pan, stand in a cold 
place for 12 hours; then stand over a pan of boiling water, with- 
out disturbing the cream; keep the water boiling until a line of 
bubbles ^ inch wide forms all around the pan of milk; take it 
from the fire, cool; skim off the cream with a perforated skim- 
mer. Serve over fruits, pies or pudding. Use the milk for any 
kind of cooking. 

Butter 

Put in a glass butter churn that comes for the purpose, and 
chum untU the butter separates from the liquid portion. Collect 
the particles of butter with a spoon, pressing out as much of the 
mUk as possible. Wash the butter in very cold water until the 
water is clear; put butter into a dry bowl, sprinkle with the salt, 
and work the salt thoroughly into the butter with a spoon. Form 
butter into a cake or fancy shapes. The salt may be omitted. 

Butter Balls 

Small wooden paddles, or "butter-hands," plain or grooved, 
are used for forming butter into balls or other fancy shapes. 
Let the butter-hands stand in boiling water five minutes; then 
put them into very cold water, and chill thoroughly. Have 
ready a large bowl of cold water. Cut the butter into pieces f 
inch square, and drop into the cold water. RoU them lightly 
one at a time, between the butter-hands untU of the desired shape. 
Arrange them on a flat dish, and chUl. Use a small fork in serv- 
ing them. 



94 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Milk 

Sterilization will undoubtedly kill the germs in milk, but the 
high temperature required alters the flavor and also renders the 
milk less digestible for many. The method called pasteurization 
consists in heating the milk to 158° F. and keeping it at that 
temperature for 20 or 30 minutes. It is then cooled rapidly, and 
will usually keep 3 or 4 days when covered and kept in a cool place. 

Pasteurized Milk 

Fill sterilized bottles or jars nearly fuU with milk; cork with 
cotton which has been baked in the oven till yellow. Place bottle 
on a rest in a deep pan so that they will not touch the bottom 
of pan. Fill the pan with enough cold water to reach as high 
as the milk in the bottles. Place over the fire, and heat to 
158° F., if a thermometer is used. If not, heat until small bub- 
bles appear in the mUk next to the glass. Remove to back of 
stove where milk cannot become any hotter; keep it there from 
20 to 30 minutes; then place the bottles first in lukewarm and 
then in cold water untU mUk is also cold. Keep them in a cold 
place. Do not remove stoppers until ready for use. 

Sour Milk Cheese 

1 quart thick sour milk J teaspoonful salt 

2 teaspoonfuls butter 1 tablespoonful cream 

Put the mUk into a sauce pan, and heat slowly until the curd 
separates from the whey. Place a piece of cheese-cloth in a 
strainer; place strainer over a bowl, and pour in the milk. 
Lift the edges of the cloth and draw them together and twist, 
pressing the curd as dry as possible. Put curd in a small bowl, with 
butter, salt and cream; mix together lightly with a fork. 



BUTTER AND MILK 95 

Creamed Cheese on Toast 

1 tablespoonful flour 1 teaspoonful butter 

i cup cold cream J teaspoonful salt 

} cup scalded milk speck cayenne 

1 cup chopped cheese 1 egg 

Mix the flour with the cold milk; stir in the scalded milk, and 
boil 5 minutes, stirring all the time. Add the cheese, and when 
melted add salt, pepper and butter, and the beaten egg. Cook 
1 minute and pour over slices of toasted bread or crackers. 
Serve at once. 

Baked Crackers with Cheese 

Split common crackers in halves, and butter the inside slightly. 
Put them, buttered side up, in a pan, and bake in a hot oven until 
light brown. Remove from oven , and sprinkle each half with 
grated cheese. Allow for each whole cracker 1 tablespoonful of 
cheese, a few grains of salt, and pepper, if liked. Return to 
oven, and cook until cheese is melted. 

Cheese Straws 

Take J pound of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls butter broken in the 
flour and rubbed until smooth, 2 tablespoonfuls good cheese 
grated, the yolks of 2 eggs and the white of 1 ; season with a 
little salt, mix all together; roll out to the thickness of rather 
less than J inch; place on a well buttered tin and cut into very 
narrow strips 4 or 5 inches long; bake in a moderate oven 
for 5 minutes. 

Cheese Croquettes 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 cup milk 

4 tablespoonfuls flour 1 cup grated cheese 

J teaepoonful salt 1 tablespoonful parmesan cheese 

i teaspoonful mustard 2 egg yolks 

Let mixture get very cold. Shape and fry in boiling lard. 



96 



THE CHUBCH COOK BOOK 



Welsh Rarebit 

Take J pound cheese, cut in small pieces and melt it in a sauce 
pan and add 1 tablespoonful butter, when about melted, 2 eggs 
beaten, without separating. Mix well, and add 4 tablespoonfuls 
cream, stir and cook untU smooth, season with salt and a dash of 
cayenne and serve on crackers. 



Welsh Rarebit 



1 pound chopped cheese 
1 tablespoonful butter 
1 teaspoonful dry mustard 



1 half glass ale 
salt 



cayenne 

Put the butter in sauce pan and when soft add cheese and stir 
until it melts. Add quickly the mustard, salt and cayenne. Stir 
all the time. Add a little ale to keep from burning, adding more 
as necessary. When it has melted to a smooth thin paste, serve 
immediately on toast. 




EGGS 

Soft Cooked Eggs 

Put into a sauce pan enough boiling water to cover the eggs. A 
general rule is to allow 1 pint of water for 2 eggs, and an extra 
cupful for each additional egg. If eggs are very cold pour warm 
water over them before putting into boiling water, or use more 
boUing water. Put the boiling water into a sauce pan, place the 
eggs in the water with a spoon, and cover the sauce pan. Remove 
at once from the fire to the table and let stand 8 to 10 minutes. 
Serve in heated cups. 

Hard Cooked Eggs 

Cook in the same manner as preceding receipe, placing sauce 
pan on back of the stove, where the water wUl keep hot but not boil, 
for from 30 to 45 minutes. When removed from the hot water 
the shells may be more quickly removed if the eggs are put into 
cold water for a few minutes. 

Poached Eggs 

Prepare a slice of buttered toast for each egg, and keep it hot. 
Have ready a shallow pan containing enough boiling salted water 
to cover the eggs, allowing 1 teaspoonful Of salt to 1 pint of water. 
Before putting in the eggs place the pan where the water wiU 
keep hot but not boU. Break each egg separately into a saucer 
and slip it carefully in the water. Cook until the white is firm, 
and a film forms over, the top of yolk. Pour water over the yolk 
with a spoon if necessary. Remove eggs with a skimmer, drain. 



98 THE CHUBCH COOK BOOK 

and slip on the toast, add salt, pepper and butter to taste. Serve 
immediately. 

Golden Rod Eggs 

3 hard-QOoked eggs i saltspoonful pepper 
i teaspoonful salt 4 or 5 slices of toast 

Make 1 cup of thin white sauce, as previously directed. Sepa- 
rate yolks from white of eggs. Chop whites fine, and add them to 
the white sauce. Arrange the toast on a hot platter, and cover 
with white sauce. Press the yolks through a coarse strainer or a 
vegetable strainer, over the white sauce. Cover, and place in 
a moderate oven 5 minutes and serve hot. Hot cooked rice may 
be used instead of toast. The dish may be garnished with 
"toast points," made by cutting slices of toast into pieces about 
1 J inch square, and dividing each square diagonally. 

Steamed Eggs 

Separate white and yolk of egg. Beat white to a stiff froth, 
and put into a cup. Put the yolk (whole) into the center. Place 
cup in a steamer, or in a sauce pan containing enough boiling water 
to reach half way to the top of cup. Cover the sauce pan, remove 
from fire, and let stand 5 to 10 minutes. Serve at once ; season to 
taste. The yolk may be beaten and mixed lightly with the beaten 
white before cooking, if preferred. 

Creamy Eggs 

4 eggs i teaspoonful salt 
2 cups of milk pepper to taste 
1 tablespoonful butter 

Scald the milk ; beat eggs until thoroughly mixed, but not frothy, 
add salt and pepper if used. Pour the milk on slowly, and when 
well mixed put into the top of double boiler, and stir until mixture 



EGGS 99 

becomes thick and creamy. Add butter and pour over slices of 
toast. Serve hot. The butter may be omitted. 

Scrambled Eggs 

5 eggs J saltspoonful pepper 

i cup milk 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

i teaspoonful salt 

Beat eggs slightly, and add salt, pepper and milk. Melt the 
butter in a frying pan, pour in the egg mixture, and cook slowly, 
continually scraping from bottom of pan. When creamy, turn 
upon a hot dish and serve at once. Finely chopped cold ham 
may be added, using a tablespoonful for each egg. If ham is used 
omit salt, and season to taste. 

Cheese Omelet 

Beat the yolks of 3 eggs, add 1 tablespoonful of milk and a little 
salt, then the beaten whites. Melt 1 tablespoonful of butter in a 
frying pan; when bubbling, pour in the omelet, let it cook till 
light brown underneath. Sprinkle over the top 1 or 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of grated cheese. Place in the oven to dry, fold and serve 
very hot. 

Ham Omelet 

Beat 4 eggs till feathery, then add 3 large spoonfuls of finely 
minced ham ; butter the frying pan well, and po\ir all in ; when 
well set, roll up all like a jelly roU, and serve immediately. 

Com Omelet 

i dozen ears corn (grated) 2 large eggs (or 3 small ones) yolk 

1 cupful rich cream and milk and whites beaten separately 

Beat yolks, add cream, and stir in a cupful of corn at a time, stir 
into the stiff whites, put in a hot frying pan, with a little butter 
over the bottom, fry brown and serve immediately. 



100 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Timbale of Ham 

1 cup ham, chopped fine 3 eggs 

1 cup cream, thickened with flour 

Mix all well together, bake for J hour, turn out on a flat dish 
and pour over it a cream sauce. 

Eggs and Peppers 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese 
4 tablespoonfuls chopped green 3 eggs 

peppers i cup of cream 

Cook 1 minute, add 3 eggs well beaten, and J cupful cream 
and cook until thick. 




COOKING FRUITS 

General rule for cooking dried fruits. Wash thoroughly but 
quickly, in cold or slightly warm water, rubbing the fruit between 
the hands. Change the water until the fruit is clean. Cover the 
fruit with clean water, and let it soak several hours, if possible. 
Allow 1 quart of water for ^ pound of dried fruits. Cook untU 
soft, in the water used for soaking. Long soaking, and quick cook- 
ing give a flavor most like that of the fresh fruit. During hot 
weather fruit is liable to sour when put to soak over night; to 
avoid this put it in the refrigerator while soaking. 

Stewed Prunes 

Wash and pick over the prunes, put them to soak over night 
in the water they are to be cooked in. Cook untU soft, and if 
you desire more sweetness add a little sugar about 5 minutes 
before taking off the fire. 

Steamed Apples 

Wipe, core and pare soiu- apples; put them on a plate Ln a 
steamer, and cook untU the apples are tender; strain the juice 
and make a sjTup, using J cup sugar to J cup juice; boil 5 
minutes and pour over the apples. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 
may be added. 

Coddled Apples 

Wipe, quarter and pare 8 sour apples. Make a syrup by boil- 
ing together 1 cup sugar and 2 cups water, for 3 minutes; cook as 



102 THE CHUKCH COOK BOOK 

many pieces of the apple as will float in the syrup; when soft, re- 
move them, and add more apple. Pour the syrup over the apples 
when all are cooked. They may be cooked whole. The syrup 
may be flavored with the rind and juice of i lemon, or an inch 
of stick cinnamon may be cooked with it. 

Baked Apples 

Wipe and core sour apples; they may be pared, if liked. Put 
them in an agate or earthenware baking dish; fiU each center with 
sugar; use 1 teaspoonful of water for each apple, and pour it 
aroimd, not over them. Bake until apples are soft, from 30 to 45 
minutes, basting them every 10 minutes. Place them in a dish, 
and pour the juice over them. Serve cold. 

Baked Bananas 

6 bananas juice of 1 lemon 

2 tablespoonfuls butter melted i cup sugar 

Use firm bananas, not over-ripe. Remove skins, cut in J length- 
wise, and place in shallow baking dish. Mix melted butter, 
sugar and lemon juice, and spread half of the mixture over 
bananas. Use remainder for basting fruit while baking. Bake 
20 minutes in slow oven. 

Stewed Evaporated Apricots, Peaches and Apples 

Wash thoroughly, soak in cold water over night, put on in the 
morning in the water in which they were soaked, just enough to 
cover them, and simmer slowly two hours, closely covered; add 
sugar 5 minutes before taking from the stove. Serve cold or 
use for pies, puddings, etc. 



COOKING FRUITS 103 

Cranberry Sauce 

1 quart of cranberries 2 cups sugar 

1 pint water 

Pick over and wash cranberries. Put cranberries and water in 
sauce pan; cover and cook 8 minutes or until skins burst. Press 
them through a collander, add sugar, and boil 5 minutes. 

Stewed Rhubarb 

Wash the rhubarb and cut it in 1 inch pieces, do not peel it, allow- 
ing 1 pound of sugar to 2 cups of rhubarb. Put it into the sauce 
pan, cover with the sugar, and put on the back of the stove until 
it melts, then bring it to a boU without stirring. Cool and 
serve. 

Spiced Prunes 

Wash and soak over night 1 pint of prunes in water enough to 
cover well. Stew until the skins are soft, then pour ofif the water 
and add a cupful of good cider vinegar, 2 cups of sugar, cloves and 
cinnamon to suit the taste. 



DESSERTS 



Christmas Plum Pudding 



2 pounds bread crumbs, sifted 
1 pound moist brown sugar 

1 pound suet, chopped fine and 

rubbed well in ilour, with a 
pinch of salt 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 J pound raisins, chopped, not too 
fine 



1 pound currants, washed, dried 

rubbed in fiour 
} pound candied peel 
1 cup nuts, chopped fine 
1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon, 

allspice, nutmeg, ginger and 

cloves 
3 eggs 



Mix all well together, moisten with a little milk. Dip pudding 
bags in boiling water and flour, put the batter in the bags; tie, 
steam 5 hours. Eat with hard sauce. 



Carrot Pudding 



1 pound flour 

1 pound cooked and mashed carrots 

1 pound currants 

1 pound raisins 

Boil 3J hours. 



1 cup moist brown sugar 
I pound chopped suet 
1 teaspoonful salt 



Queen Pudding 



1} cup sugar 

2 cups grated bread crumbs 
1 quart rich sweet milk 
4 eggs 



1 tablespoonful butter 
J cup jeUy or jam 
1 teaspoonful vanilla 



Cream the butter and 1 cup sugar, add the well beaten yolks, 
stir, then the milk in which the bread crumbs have been soaked, 
and flavor, put in a pudding dish two-thirds full, bake in the oven, 
until the custard is set. Spread with the jelly, make a meringue 
of the whites, and remaining J cup of sugar, return to the oven 



DESSERTS 105 

for a few minutes or until the meringue is slightly browned. 
Serve with hot or cold sauce or cream. 

Fig Pudding 

J pound figs, chopped fine 1 nutmeg, grated 

i pound of suet, chopped fine 1 lemon, juice and grated rind cup 

i pound brown sugar of milk 

i pound bread crumbs glassful grape juice 

3 eggs beaten light 

Steam 4 hours in a mold and serve with a boiled sauce. 

Huckleberry Pudding 

li cups of sugar 1 cup of fresh milk 

J cup butter 2 eggs 

3 cups flour 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

1 pint huckleberries 

Mix and stir in the berries lightly and bake. 

Apple Tapioca or Sago Pudding 

i cup tapioca or sago 6 or 7 sour apples 

cold water to cover i cup sugar 

3 cups boiling water i teaspoonful cinnamon, or } tea- 
J teaspoonful salt spoonful nutmeg 

Pick over and wash the tapioca or sago ; cover with cold water, 
and soak over night ; drain and add boUing water and salt ; cook in 
a double boiler until tapioca or sago is clear. Core and pare the 
apples ; put them into a buttered baking dish ; mix sugar and spice, 
and fiU cavities of apples ; pour the tapioca over them and bake untU 
apples are soft. Serve with cream or mUk and sugar. Rhubarb 
may be used instead of apples. The fruit may be sliced and 
cooked in double boiler, with the tapioca or sago, for 5 minutes 
before putting into baking dish. Pearl, flake or minute tapioca 
may be used; minute tapioca needs no soaking. 



106 THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 

Cocoanut Pudding 

4 tablespoonfuls of pearl tapioca 1 quart milk 

1 cup of grated cocoanut 4 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Wash the tapioca, cover it with cold water, and let it stand 
over night. Next morning add to it the milk, and cook in a 
double boiler at least 10 minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs and 
the sugar together, add them to the milk, and half of the cocoa- 
nut ; cook for 5 minutes longer ; take from the fire, and when cold 
turn Into a shallow glass dish. Beat the whites of the eggs until 
light; add 4 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and beat again; 
spread this over the top, and sprinkle over the remaining por- 
tion of the cocoanut. Put a piece of thick paper around the 
dish, and run it into a quick oven imtil slightly brown. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

Bread Pudding 

1 loaf bread, pour over enough 1 pound raisins (stoned) 

boiling water to moisten the 1 cup sugar 

bread 2 eggs 

1 pound suet, chopped fine pinch salt 

Put in a bag and boU for 2 hours. Eat with sauce. 

Crust Pudding 

2 cups bread crusts i teaspoonf ul cinnamon 
i cup sugar i cup raisins (seeded) 

pinch of salt 2 cups milk 

Scald the milk; break crust in small pieces, and brown in oven; 
add sugar, salt, cinnamon and raisins ; mix well ; pour on milk, and 
let it stand 10 minutes; bake until milk is absorbed. A beaten 
egg may be mixed with the sugar, salt and cinnamon, and the mUk 
added slowly before pouring over the crumbs. Use 3 cups of milk 



DESSERTS 107 

if egg is used. Half cup of molasses may be used instead of 
sugar. Serve with hard sauce. 

Cottage Pudding 

3 cups of flour 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
1 cup of sugar 1 egg 

1 cup of milk 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

Flavor with lemon, and bake J hour and serve with a sauce 
made with: 

1 cup butter 2 tablespoonfuls of wine, if you 

2 cups powder sugar beaten to a use it 

cream J pint of.boiling water 

i teaspoonful vanilla 

Roly-Poly Pudding 

One pint of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of butter, and milk to make a soft dough. Mix and roU out 
i inch thick, nearly square. Spread with sliced apples, peaches, 
apricots, berries of any kind, cranberries; roll it up, put into a 
biscuit tin and bake. Or roll up in a floured cloth, tie up and 
steam. Serve with liquid sauce. 

Nun's Puffs 

4 eggs i pint of flour 
i pint of milk 

Beat the eggs without separating, until light, add themUk; 

pour this gradually into the flour, mix and beat until smooth. 

Strain through an ordinary strainer, and pour at once into 

twelve greased muffin cups or gem pans. Bake in a moderate 

oven (300° F.) for 30 minutes. If the oven is too hot the 

puffs wUl not be light. They must bake until they are like little 

balloons. If they faU when taken from the oven, they are not 

done. Serve warm with liquid pudding sauce. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 



108 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Hard Sauce 

i cup butter i cup powdered sugar 

Rub the butter in a bowl until creamy; add the sugar gradually, 

then the flavoring (a tablespoonful of brandy, if you use it) or a 

teaspoonful vanilla. A little nutmeg may be grated over the 

top. Put in a cold place to harden. Serve with hot pudding. 

Plain Sauce 

i pound butter 1 cup sugar 

4 tablespoonfuls flour i teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 pint boiling water 

Melt the butter, remove from fire, and stir in the flour. Pour 
in the water gradually, and boil, stirring constantly. Add the 
sugar and cinnamon, stir until it dissolves. 

Nutmeg Sauce 

IJ tablespoonful flour 1 cup boiling water 

i cup sugar 1 tablespoonful butter 

I teaspoonful grated nutmeg 

Mix flour and sugar; add water gradually, stirring constantly; 

boil 5 minutes; remove from the fire; add butter and nutmeg. 

Nogg Sauce 

I cup of cream i cup milk 

1 egg 4 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls of sherry if you 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

use wine 

Separate the egg; beat the white until stiff, then add the yolk, 
and beat again. Add the sugar to the cream and milk mixed; 
stir untU the sugar is dissolved, and then add it gradually to the 
egg. Mix thoroughly ; pour backwards and forward from one vessel 
to another; add the sherry and vanilla, and it is ready to serve. 
Tliis may be served with baked or boiled puddings. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Eorer. 



DESSERTS 109 

Maple S3rrup Pudding Sauce 

1 cup maple sugar J cup sweet cream 
i cup water flavor to taste 

2 eggs (whites only) 

Boil the sugar and water until it threads, add slowly the well 
beaten whites, and the cream and flavor. 

Egg Sauce 

i cup hot milk 1 cup powdered sugar 

2 eggs, whites and yolks separated 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Heat the milk; beat egg yolks until creamy; add half the 

sugar; beat well, and add the hot milk gradually. Beat the 

whites very stiff, add remaining sugar gradually; combine with 

yolk mixture. Add vanilla last. 

Lemon Sauce 

1 teacupful of sugar, J teacup of butter, 1 tablespoonful of 
flour, aU weU mixed together. Add also the grated rind of a lem- 
on and a pint of boiling water. Boil 5 minutes. When ready to 
serve squeeze into the sauce the juice of 1 lemon. 

Apple Dumpling 

1 quart of flour 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 tablespoonful butter or lard pinch salt 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar 

Milk to make a dough that can be rolled out. Fold in sour 
halved apples, and steam or bake. Baking will require 20 minutes. 
Steaming 1 hour. 

Strawberry Short Cake 

1 quart of strawberries 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 pint of flour li cup of milk 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder 

Sift the baking powder and flour several times; rub in thor- 
oughly the butter; add the milk gradually until you have a dough 



110 THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 

suflBciently soft to handle easily. Turn it out on the board, knead, 
roU into a sheet ^ inch in thickness, and cut into a large, 
round, or oblong cake. Put it at once into a greased baking 
pan. Brush the top with milk and bake in a quick oven for 
20 minutes. Stem and mash the berries and add a cup of sugar. 
As soon as the short cake is thoroughly baked, take it from the 
oven, separate by pulling it apart, do not cut it, lay the top crust 
aside and put half the strawberries over the under crust. Put on 
the top crust, and cover it with the remaining berries. Send at 
once to the table. Serve with it if possible a pitcher of cream. 
MUk cannot be substituted, better eat it plain, than to mix milk 
with the berries. For Blackberry, Raspberry, and Peach Short 
Cake substitute these fruits for the strawberries. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

Peach Cobbler 

Make a rich biscuit crust, rolled thick and line a dish, put in a 
layer of peeled and halved peaches, sprinkle with sugar and flour 
and bits of butter and fiU the dish; pour over it some boiling 
water. Cover with a top crust, stick with a fork, and bake in a 
moderate oven until peaches are done. 

Cream Ptiffs 

One cup of hot water, J cup of butter, boil together ; while boil- 
ing stir in 1 cup of sifted flour; move from the fire and stir into a 
smooth paste; when cool add three "imbeaten" eggs, stirring 5 
minutes; drop in spoonful on buttered tins and bake in a quick 
oven for 25 minutes. 

Cream: 1 cup of milk, ^ cup sugar, 1 egg, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
flour, cook thoroughly and flavor. When cream and puffs 
are cold cut puffs open with sharp knife and fill with cream. 



DESSERTS 111 

Charlotte Russe 

1 pint cream 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

J box gelatin 4 tablespoonfuls sherry, if you use 

J cup of powdered sugar it 

Cover the gelatin with J cup of cold water; let it soak while 
you whip the cream. Turn the cream into a bowl; sprinkle over 
the sugar. Dissolve the gelatin over hot water ; add 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of cream or milk, and strain into the whipped cream; add 
the flavoring. Stand the bowl in a pan of cracked ice or ice 
water; stir carefully and constantly from sides and bottom of 
the pan until the mixture begins to thicken. Turn at once into 
a mold, and stand in a cold place. The mold may be lined with 
lady fingers, or it may be turned out on a sheet of sponge cake 
or it may be served on a layer of lady fingers in the bottom of 
a glass dish. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

Mock Charlotte 

1 pint of water i cup sugar 

4 level tablespoonfuls cornstarch 4 eggs 

Moisten the cornstarch with J cup of water, add the pint of boil- 
ing water, and stir until it reaches the boiling point. Add the 
sugar; and pour slowly, while hot, into the well beaten whites of 
the eggs. Add a teaspoonful vanUla and turn at once into a mold. 
Serve with soft custard sauce made from a pint of mUk and the 
yolks of the eggs. If the yolks are needed for other dishes, this 
pudding may be garnished with fruit and served with fruit 
sauce. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 



112 THE CHDKCH COOK BOOK 

Washington Sponge 

i box (one ounce) gelatin 1 teaspoonful of vanilla 

1 cup sugar 4 tablespoonfuls sherry, if you 

1 pint boiling water use it 

J cup of cold water whites of three eggs 

Cover the gelatin with cold water and let it soak J hour; then 
add the sugar, the boiling water, and the juice of two lemons; 
stir until the sugar is dissolved; add the vanilla; strain, and 
when cold and slightly thickened, drop in the unbeaten whites 
of the eggs, and add the wine. Stand the bowl in a pan of ice 
water and with an ordinary egg whip, beat the mixture until it is 
white as snow. If the mixture is too thin, the gelatin will settle 
to the bottom. It is a waste of time to begin to beat until the 
mixture is sufficiently congealed to hold the air. Turn into a 
mold, and stand aside until perfectly cold. Serve with soft 
custard sauce made from the yolks of the eggs. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

Fruit Sago 

1 cup pearled sago 1 pint fruit syrup 

2 cups cold water J cup sugar 

Soak the sago over night in the water; in the morning cook 
until transparent, add the sugar and fruit sjoTip ; when cool, turn 
in a glass dish and serve, when ice cold, with sugar and cream. 
This is nice made with 1 pint of grape or blackberry juice when 
use 1 cup of sugar. 

Prune Pudding 

Take 1 pound of prunes, and soak in 1 quart and J pint of 
water imtU soft. Put them on in that water and cook until ten- 
der, then add 2 cups of sugar, and cook 15 minutes longer. Then 
take the prunes out of the water, take out the seed and cut the 
prunes in 4 pieces. Soak J box of gelatine in a gUl of wine, a 



DESSERTS 113 

tablespoonful of brandy, and the juice of one lemon; set this in 
a warm place, then mix the prunes and water the prunes were 
boiled in, and put in a dish to cool. Serve with cream. 

Chocolate Cream Pudding 

2 ounces of chocolate 1 pint boiling water 

3 level tablespoonfuls of corn- whites of 3 eggs 

starch i cup of sugar 

Moisten the cornstarch with 6 tablespoonfuls of cold water, add 
hastily the boiling water, cook for a moment, add the sugar and 
the chocolate grated. Stir until the mixture is smooth and the 
chocolate thoroughly dissolved. Pour while hot into the well 
beaten whites ; turn at once into a mold and stand in a cool 
place for 3 or 4 hours. Serve with hot chocolate sauce. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

Cornstarch Pudding 

1 quart milk pinch salt 

4 level tablespoonfuls cornstarch 2 tablespoonfuls cocoa 

1 cup sugar 1 scant teaspoonful vanilla 

Scald the milk, with a pinch salt, in a double boiler, reserving 
a little cold milk to moisten the cornstarch, add the cornstarch, 
cocoa and sugar, stir constantly and let it boil until it thickens; 
add the vanilla, pour in molds that have been wet with cold water. 

Cream Rice Pudding 

J cup rice i cup sugar 

2 quarts milk 1 stick cinnamon 3 inches long 
i teaspoonful salt 

Soak the washed rice in the-cold milk several hours, put it into a 

pudding dish and bake, covered in a moderate oven 2 hours. 

Stir it occasionally and add salt and sugar when rice is nearly 

soft. Remove the cover, the last i hour, and brown slightly. 



114 THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 

Serve hot or cold. The pudding may be cooked on top of the 
stove, then put in oven and brown. You may add a cup of seeded 
raisins if you prefer. 

Rice Meringue 

Cook gently J cup of rice in a pint of milk, let it cool a little, 
and stir in 1 tablespoonful butter, ^ cup of white sugar, rind of a 
lemon, yolks of 5 eggs, pour the mixture into a well buttered pan, 
and lay lightly and evenly over the top the whites of 4 eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, sift over it powdered sugar. Bake the pudding 
for 10 minutes in a gentle oven. 

Molasses Pudding 

IJ cup N. 0. molasses i cup brown sugar 

J cup butter and lard mixed i teaspoon soda dissolved in mo- 

2 cups flour lasses 

i cup sour milk 1 large well beaten egg 

Steam or bake in loaf, and serve with the following sauce: 

J cup brown sugar, heaping 1 egg 

J cup granulated sugar 2 tablespoonfuls wine 

J cup butter 

Cream, butter and sugar together, add egg, and beat light; 
then wine; cook over hot water untU a thick cream. 

Almond Pudding 

4 tablespoonfuls white bread crumbs steeped in a pint of cream. 
1 cup of blanched almonds rubbed to a paste with some water 
beat the yolks of 6 eggs and the whites of three 

Mix all together, add i cup of sugar and 1 tablespoonful of but- 
ter creamed. Put over the fire, stir until it thickens and bake in 
puff paste. 



DESSEETS 115 

Rice Chocolate Pudding 

Scald 1 quart of milk with 2 squares of melted chocolate. Add 
to it a cup of cooked rice, and a cup sugar, and yolks of 4 eggs 
well beaten, put in a well greased baking dish and bake. Whip 
the remaining whites to a stiff froth, pile on top of the pudding. 
Sprinkle with sugar and set in the oven to brown. Serve cold 
with cream. 

The Gordon Pie Crust 

The Grordon pie crust is the kind that husbands refer to when 
they tell their wives my mother's pie crust would melt in the 
mouth. Sift a level teaspoonful of salt with a pound of flour; 
rub i pound of butter into the flour with the hands, until so 
thoroughly mixed as to present the appearance of meal ; stir with 
them just enough cold water to make a pastry that can be rolled 
out, and then use it. This is one of the simplest pastries, easily 
made and delicious. Permission of the Baltimore Sun. 

Mince Meat 

2 pounds lean meat 1 teaspoonful each ground cloves, 

2 pounds raisins (seeded) nutmeg, cinnamon 

2 pounds currants (washed and i dozen oranges 

dried) i dozen lemons 

i pound citron, (chopped) | peck Pippins 

i pound suet (chopped) syrup, small quantity 
4 pounds sugar 

Thin with strong lemonade when desired to use. 

Mince Pies without Meat 

6 pounds apples, pared, cored and 1 teaspoonful salt 

sliced 4 lemons 

3 pounds raisins, seeded J pound citron, chopped 
3 pounds suet, chopped fine 2 oranges 

1 teaspoonful each mace, cinna- i pound conserve lemon rind, also 

mon and cloves same of orange 

3 pounds sugar J pint each of wine and brandy 



116 THE CHURCH CO'OK BOOK 

Florida Orange Pie 

Grate the yellow rind and squeeze the juice of 4 oranges; beat 
the yolks of 8 eggs to a cream; beat to a cream J pound of but- 
ter and I pound of sugar; mix all these ingredients to a smooth 
cream ; then quickly beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and 
stir them lightly into the other ingredients; put the mixture at 
once into the plates lined with pastry and bake them | hoiu- in 
a rather hot stove oven, taking care that they do not burn. The 
pies may be used hot or be allowed to cool, and then made quite 
cold on ice. If the bottom of your oven should be too hot cover 
it with sand an inch thick and let it stay there. 

Permission of Baltimore Sun. 

Chocolate Pie 

For chocolate pie grate 3 tablespoonfuls of chocolate, melt over 
hot water, blend with it 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar and add grad- 
ually 1 cupful of hot mUk. Put into a double boiler, and when 
scalding hot add 1 teaspoonful of cornstarch blended with 3 egg 
yolks and a little cold milk, and cook for 5 minutes. Add 1 tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and a pinch of salt and pour into the baked 
crust. Cover with a meringue made with the whites of the eggs ; 
add 3 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar ; dust well with sugar and 
brown in a moderate oven. 

Lemon Pie, No. 1 

2 lemons, mixing the juice with 3 eggs 

the grated rind of one J cup butter 

2 cups of water IJ cup bread crumbs 
2 cups of sugar 

Put the bread crumbs in the water. Cream the butter and su- 
gar, add yolk of 3 eggs, and whites of one, beat hard, add lemons 



DESSERTS 117 

and soaked bread crumbs. Bake in open shells, and when done, 
cover with a meringue made of the remaining whites of eggs, and 
J cup of powdered sugar ; brown in slow oven. 

Lemon Pie, No. 2 

2 level tablespoonfuls corn starch 2 eggs 

2 cups sugar 2 lemons 

i cup butter grated rind of one 

1 pint boiling water 

Moisten the cornstarch in water, pour over it the boiling water, 
being careful not to let it lump ; cook for 2 minutes. Cream, 
butter and sugar, whip in the cooked cornstarch and when cool 
beat in the yolks of eggs and lemon. Bake in open pie crust. 
When done, spread with meringue as for Lemon Pie, No. 1. 

Sweet Potato Custard Pie 

4 sweet potatoes 1 cup milk 

1 tablespoonful butter , 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

3 eggs 

Bake the potatoes, mash, beat into them butter, sugar, beaten 
eggs, not separated, and gradually the milk; flavor to taste, and 
fill a good puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven until the 
custard sets. 

Rhubarb Pie , 
1 egg 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 cupful sugar J cupful raisins 

IJ cupful chopped rhubarb 

To be cooked slowly. 

Cocoanut Pie 

J pound butter 1 cocoanut (grated) 

i pound sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

6 eggs 

Line your plates with paste. 



118 THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 

Pumpkin Pie 

Cook a pumpkin with as little water as possible until soft; put 
in a colander, cover with a plate, and on that put a weight to ex- 
tract the water. Press through the colander, and to each pint of 
pumpkin, add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten light with J pound of 
sugar and ^ teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and allspice, 
lastly fold in the well beaten whites of 2 eggs. Line the pie plate 
with a good crust, and bake. This quantity wUl make 1 pie. 

Bird's Nest 

Dissolve 5 level tablespoonfuls of cornstarch in a pint of cold 
milk, add to it a pint of boiling mUk and cook until thick, flavor 
with a teaspoonful vanilla and pour while hot into egg shells that 
have been emptied through a hole in one end. When cold remove 
the shells, put in a dish and pour around them a rich custard 
made from a pint of mUk, yolks of 3 eggs, J cup of sugar and a 
teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Flummery 

With a silver knife cut 1 quart of berries into halves. Turn 
into an agate double boiler, 1 cupful sugar, 1 pint boiling water, 
juice of 1 lemon. Cook slowly for 10 minutes, stirring often until 
the sugar dissolves. This may be strained or not as you prefer, as 
the seeds are sometimes considered unwholesome. Moisten 3 
level tablespoonftds cornstarch in a little cold water, add to the 
hot mixture, and stir until it thickens. Cover and cook for 5 
minutes longer, turn out to cool, serve cold with cream and 
sugar. 

Boiled Custard 

Bring 1 quart of mUk to a boil, sweeten to taste, when it boUs 
pom: gradually over the well beaten yolks of 5 eggs, stirring con- 



DESSERTS 119 

stantly, return to the fire and stir until it thickens, when cool add 
a teaspoonful vanilla. You may use a level tablespoonful of 
flour or cornstarch, moistened in a little cold milk, in place of an 
egg for economy. 

Baked or Steamed Custard 

2 cups milk J teaspoonful salt 

3 egg yolks speck nutmeg 
J cup sugar 

Scald milk. Beat egg untU slightly frothy; add sugar, salt 
and nutmeg, and mix well. Add the scalded milk slowly, stirring 
all the time. Strain the mixture into a buttered pudding dish, or 
into cups. Place dish or cups in a pan of hot water. Bake in a 
moderate oven untU a knife put into the center wUl not look mUky 
when taken out. If cooked too long, the custard will "whey." 
The custard may be steamed by placing dish or cups containing 
it in a steamer placed over a saucepan containing boiling water. 
The steamer should be covered. 

Rennet Custard or Junket 

2 cups milk 2 teaspoonfuls liquid rennet 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Heat mUk untU lukewarm; add sugar and flavoring, stirring 
untU sugar is dissolved; add the rennet and pour into dish in 
which it is to be served. Serve plain or with cream and sugar. 
Junket tablets may be used instead of liquid rennet. 

Chocolate Custard 

One-fourth of a cake of chocolate, 1 pint of boiling water, 6 
eggs, 1 quart of milk, J cup of sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 
Dissolve the chocolate in a very little milk, stir into the boUing 
water and boU 3 minutes. When nearly cold add the beaten 



120 THE CHtmCH COOK BOOK 

eggs, stir into the milk, flavor and pour in cups; set in boiling 
water and bake. 

Peach Mousse 

Mash through a colander fresh or canned peaches. Add to a 
cupful of peach pulp J teaspoonful of lemon juice, a few drops 
almond extract and enough sugar to taste. Dissolve in J cup 
of peach juice. If tablespoonful of granulated gelatine which 
had been soaked for 1 hotir in J cup cold water. Add gela- 
tine to peach mixture and when it begins to set, mix it until 
smooth, then fold in J pint whipped cream and turn into a mold. 

Spanish Cream 

Soak i box of gelatine in J pint of milk for 1 hom-. Boil 
1 quart of milk in a double boiler seasoned with 1 teaspoon- 
ful vanilla, and sweetened to taste. Beat 6 eggs, yolks and 
whites separately. Strain the gelatine into the yolks, stir in 
the whites, pour in the boiling milk, put all back on the fire and 
let it thicken. Pour into molds, and set on ice. 

Bavarian Cream 

One pint of cream, whip light, and drain. Take another pint 
of cream and make a custard with yolks of 4 eggs, sweeten, 
flavor. Strain into the custard J ounce of gelatine. Place 
on ice and when it begins to thicken, beat in the whipped cream, 
pour into molds, put on ice until ready to serve. 

Netherwood Trifle 

Bake a loaf sponge cake. Cut out the middle, leaving a thin 
outside of the cake about 1 inch thick. If you use wine moisten 
+he walls a little, and fill with a rich custard, made of 1 pint of 



DESSEETS 121 

milk, and the yolks of 4 eggs and on top you may pile the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth with a little sugar, or you may re- 
turn the top of the cake, being very careful not to break it when 
cutting, and dust with powdered sugar. 

Trifle 

Lay macaroons and lady-fingers in the bottom of the bowl in 
which it is to be served. Moisten with wine if you use it. Then 
pour over them a rich cold custard, pile high with whipped 
cream. 

Strawberry Cream 

Mash i pint of strawberry until smooth, and sweeten. Beat 
the whites of 2 eggs to a froth, and add by degrees the fruit, 
beat until stiff. Serve in glasses. Any fruit or jam may be used, 
and it can be floated on cream or custard or plain. 

Omelet Souffle 

6 eggs, whites 3 tablespoonful of powdered sugar 

3 eggs, yolks the grated yellow rind of i lemon 

i teaspoonful of lemon juice 

Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff and frothy; sift over the 
sugar and beat again until fine and dry; add the yolks slightly 
beaten, the lemon rind and juice. Mix quickly, carefully and 
thoroughly, put at once into a baking dish, dust the top quickly 
with powdered sugar, and bake in an oven at 400° F. 5 minutes. 

Caution: The oven must be ready before you begin the souffle. 
It must be taken at once from the oven to the table. If it is 
stringy inside, it has been baked too long. To be right, it must 
be hot. It must be served in the dish in which it is baked. 

If you are an expert, put the souffle into pastry, use a star 
tube, and press it out on a platter, making either a large rope- 



122 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

like mold or rosette. A pyramid of roses is always attractive. 
Dust it with sugar and bake as directed. An omelette souffl6 

is one of the most elegant of desserts. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

Prune Souffle 

4 pint stewed prunes yolks of 3 eggs 

whites of 6 eggs 

Remove the stones and press the prunes through a sieve to 
remove the skins. Add to them the yolks slightly beaten. Fold 
in the well-beaten whites, turn at once into a baking dish, dust 
the top with powdered sugar, and bake in a quick oven 5 to 6 
minutes. Other fruit in the same proportion may be substi- 
tuted for prunes. 

A souffle is to be recommended on account of its simplicity 
and wholesomeness. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

Almond Souffle 

Blanch, roU and brown in butter to a pale yellow 1^ pound 
almonds. Beat the whites of 6 eggs very stiff, add 4 table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, then the almonds ; stir lightly and 
pour into a buttered baking dish. Bake in* a quick oven till 
a golden brown. 



CAKES 

Simple Rules for Cake Baking 

Always cream your butter and sugar to a very light cream, 
being careful to use a wooden spoon. Some cooks contend you 
can do it much better with your hands, but best results will 
be secured by the above method. 

Always separate and beat eggs very light, unless otherwise 
stated. 

Flour should be sifted several times, adding the baking powder 
in the last sifting. It is generally beaten in alternately with 
the well-beaten whites, except in sponge cake, when it is added 
last. 

Layer cake will not stick if the pan is well greased and dusted 
with flour. 

Do not have too hot an oven when baking cakes that require 
long baking, like fruit cake, ginger pound cake, pound cake, etc. 
Layer pound cake and small cakes require more heat. 

It is always safe to try them with a clean straw. If it, 
comes out clean, without a particle of batter sticking to it, it is 
done. 

Another simple way is to run the fingers lightly over the top, 
and if there is no indentation, it is done. 

Never close oven door so as to jar the cakes, as it will cause 
them to fall. 

Turn out on a cakeboard to cool, so as to prevent the steam, 
from making them soggy. Never ice until cold. 

If you have to cut cake while hot, use a heated knife. 



124 



THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 



Fruit Cake 



1 pound sugar 
f pound butter 

10 eggs 
J pound conserved lemon peel 
i pound conserved orange peel 
J pound citron 

2 cups English walnuts and al- 

monds, chopped fine 
1 nutmeg grated 
1 teaspoonful each mace, cloves 



2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon 

1 saltspoonful salt , 
1} pound flour 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
2 pounds raisins 

2 pounds currants 

1 wineglassful each of brandy and. 
wine, if you use it, or the 
grated rind and juice of an 
orange 



Cream the butter and sugar. Beat the eggs separately. Flour 
the fruit, add the wine or orange juice and mix well, butter sheets 
of paper and line the inside of a stem cake pan, bake in a mod- 
erate oven for three hours. 



Black Fruit Cake 



1 pound browned flour 
1 pound best butter 

1 pound C sugar 
12 eggs 

2 pounds raisins (after seeding) 

2 pounds large currants (stemmed) 
i pound candied orange peel 
f pound citron 
1 pound almonds (shelled) 



1 gill French brandy 
wineglass of Curacoa cordial 
wineglass of Maraschino 
1 tablespoonful of allspice 
i teaspoonful of cloves 
i teaspoonful of mace 
1 cup New Orleans molasses 
(add a little soda just as 
this is put in) 



First get your fruit ready. Raisins seeded and chopped fine, 
currants washed, steamed and dried, almonds blanched and cut 
in thin slices, citron and orange peel also cut in long, thin slices ; 
mix all together and flour very lightly; this prevents it from 
settling to the bottom of the cake. Cream the butter and flour, 
stir till very light; yeUow of eggs and sugar; put these together, 
then add the whites well whipped; then the seasoning, and after 
that put in the fruit — small quantities at a time — and add the 



CAKES 125 

cup of New Orleans molasses. Put in deep pan and bake four 
hours. Be sure it does not bake too long or it will be very dry. 
"This cake will keep a year, and is at its best when four weeks 
old." 

Permission of Baltimore Sun. 

Election Cake 

6 pounds flour 3 pints new milk 

3 pounds brown sugar 3 pounds raisins 

3 pounds butter 3 pounds currants 

10 eggs 1 pound citron 

i ounce allspice 2 nutmegs (grated) 

J ounce cloves 2 wineglasses each of sherry, wine 
J ounce mace and brandy, if you use it, or J 

J ounce cinnamon cup syrup 

1 pint yeast 

The night previous to baking take all the flour, yeast, and 
milk, part of the sugar and butter, work together, cover, and let 
it rise. In the morning take the remainder of the sugar, butter, 
spices, liquor or syrup and the beaten eggs, and work well to- 
gether, as in making other cake and put with the sponge, cover 
and let it rise again. After it is light, work in the fruit, lightly 
and put it in the tins, let it stand a short time, put in the oven 
and bake. 

Raisin Bread 

Take 1 pound lightened bread dough work into it 1 pound 
sugar and 1 cup of butter that has been creamed, add 3 well- 
beaten eggs, i pint milk, slightly warmed, 1 wineglass of brandy 
or wine, i nutmeg grated, 1 pound seeded raisins rubbed in 
flour. The dough should have enough flour added to make it 
the consistency of pound cake. After putting in all the ingre- 
dients add 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in Itablespoonful vinegar. 
When light bake. 



126 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Layer Cake 

1 cupful of butter 4 eggs 

2 cupfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful baking powder 

3 cupfuls flour 1 teaspoonful vanilla 
1 cup rich milk 

Cream the butter and sugar to a light cream, add the well- 
beaten yolks, then the milk, beat the whites to a stiff froth, beat 
into the batter with the vanilla, and lastly the sifted flour to 
which has been added the baking powder. Bake in jelly cake 
pans. After it has cooled spread with any desired filling. 

French Cake 

1 cup of milk 3 eggs 

2 cups of sugar J cup of butter 

3 cups of flour 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar, add the milk, sift in the flour into 
which you have put the baking powder, alternating with the 
well-beaten whites. 

Cocoanut Cake 

1 cup of butter 1 cocoanut grated 

3 cups sugar whites beaten to a stiff froth 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoonful of soda and 2 of 

4J cups flour cream of tartar or 2 tea- 

4 eggs spoonfuls of baking powder 

Pound Cake 

1 pound of sugar 10 eggs 

1 pound of butter flavor with lemon 

1 pound of flour 

Cream butter and sugar, stir in the yolk of the eggs and beat 
until very light; stir in the sifted flour and flavoring; lastly the 
stiffly beaten whites. Bake in moderate oven. 



CAKES 127 

Black Chocolate Cake 

2 cups granulated sugar 2 teaspoonful baking powder 

i cup butter 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

4 eggs 1 cup grated chocolate, rub smooth 
J cup fresh milk in J cup boiling water 

2 cups flour 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks, the milk, 
whites beaten to a stiff froth, the flour into which the baking 
powder has been sifted, and the vanilla, and melted chocolate. 
Bake in jelly cake pans, and spread a white icing between layers 
and on top. 

Chocolate Cake 

The beaten yolk of 1 egg, i cup of milk, 2 squares of grated 
chocolate; put on in a double boiler, let it come to a boil, stirring 
constantly, until it thickens. Set aside to cool. For the rest of 
the cake, take 1^ cup of sugar, ^ cup of milk, 1 teaspoonful 
soda dissolved in the milk, 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 2 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 2 cups of sifted 
flour, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Cream the butter and sugar, add 
the yolks, milk and vanilla, then the chocolate mixture, grad- 
ually the flour, then the well beaten whites. Bake in layers, 
being very careful not to jar this cake, as it is very light and 
delicate and falls easily. Spread with a cream filling. 

Ginger Pound Cake 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 even teaspoonful soda 

1 cup melted butter 1 tablespoonful each of ground 

1 cup sour cream ginger and cinnamon 

3 cups flour 3 eggs 

1 cup molasses 1 cup seeded raisins, rubbed in flour 

Stir molasses, sugar, melted butter, cream, spices, milk with 
the soda dissolved into it and raisins together, add well beaten 
eggs and flour. Bake in loaf in moderate oven an hour and a half. 



128 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Ginger Bread 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in 

1 cup molasses hot water 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 cup sour milk or buttermilk 4 eggs 

1 tablespoonful ginger 4 cups flour 

Stir butter, sugar, molasses and spice to a light cream, add the 
milk, then the beaten eggs, the soda and lastly the flour. Beat 
hard 10 minutes, bake at once in a loaf or small tins. 

Chocolate Cream Cake 

little over J print butter (not 1 cup of milk 

quite J pound) li teaspoonful yeast powder 

2 cups sugar whites of 7 eggs, beaten stiff 
2i cups flour flavor with vanilla 

BoU 2 cups of sugar with | cup of mUk until it strings ; beat until 
thick and spread on cake. Melt i cake of chocolate and spread. 

Snow Cake 

1 cup butter 8 eggs (whites only) 

1 cup cornstarch 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

1 cup milk li cup flour 

2 cups sugar 

Cream the butter, add the flour, well-sifted, and stir thoroughly, 
then the cornstarch, milk in which the baking powder has been 
dissolved, lastly add whites of eggs and sugar beaten well to- 
gether, flavor to taste. Bake in loaf or layer as preferred. A 
loaf requires 45 to 50 minutes. 

Angel's Food Cake 

11 eggs (whites only) 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar 

IJ cup sugar 1 teaspoonful almond extract 
1 cup flour 

Beat the eggs stiff, add the sugar which has been sifted several 
times. Sift the flour, add cream of tartar, then sift again, and 



CAKES 129 

add to the eggs and sugar. Do not grease the pans, and bake 
nearly f hour. 

Sponge Cake 

8 eggs flavor with teaspoonful lemon or 

weight of eggs in sugar vanilla 

i weight of eggs in flour 

Beat yolks very light, add sugar. Beat whites very light. 

Sift flour three times, then sift into the mixtures alternately 

with the whites, stirring very gently, bake in stem cake pans or 

in gem pans. 

Boiled Sugar Sponge Cake 

1 pound sugar i pound flour 

6 tablespoonfuls of water juice and grated rind of 1 lemon 

7 eggs 

Cover the sugar with water and let it boil 5 minutes, and 
pour over eggs, which have been beaten separately and then 
together; after it is cool add flour and lemon. 

Sponge Batter for Layer Cake 

2 cups flour 1 heaping teaspoonful of baking 
2 cups sugar powder 

4 eggs 1 teaspoonful lemon extract 

4 tablespoonfuls water 

Beat the yolks light and add the sugar, then the water, then 

alternate the flour, which has been sifted several times, the last 

time add the baking powder, with the well-beaten whites; flavor 

and bake in jelly cake tins in a hot oven. 

Jelly Cake Rolls 

Four eggs, beat whites and yolks separately; 1 teacupful 
sugar, 1 teacupfyl sifted flour, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, i 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in a very little hot water; flavor 



130 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

with the juice of 1 lemon; beat all well together; spread J inch 
thick in a square tin; bake quickly, then turn bottom side up, 
spread with jeUy, and roll up whUe hot. 

Sponge Drops 

3 eggs large oup of floiu: (sifted) 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar 

flavor to taste lemon or vanilla J teaspoonful soda 

Cream the yolks (well-beaten) with the sugar, add the flour 
sifted with the cream of tartar, dissolve the soda in a little water, 
flavor, beat the whites to a stiff froth. Drop in butter pans in 
a quick oven. 

Chocolate Cookies 

One pound of sugar, a pound of butter, a cake of chocolate dis- 
solved in a pint of warm water, a quart of molasses, 3 eggs, 2 
otmces of soda and just enough flour to roU out. Coat with 
chocolate frothing. 

Charlotte Cake 

WHITE PART 

1 cup sugar i cup sweet milk 

i cup butter 2 cups flour, sifted 

4 eggs, whites only 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

GOLD PART 

1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

i cup butter 1 cup seeded raisins 

4 eggs (yolks only) 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder 

i cup sweet milk 

Bake in jeUy cake tins, ice with boiled icing. 

2 cups of sugar 4 eggs, whites 

i cup water juice and grated rind of 1 orange 



CAKES l3l 

Spice Charlotte Cake 

BKOWN PAST 

2 cups brown sugar 2 teaspoonfuls allspice 

J cup butter 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

4 eggs, yolks only 1 teaspoonful baking powder 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon 4 small cups flour, sifted 

2 teaspoonfuls grated nutmeg J cup milk 

WHITE PART 

2 cups granulated sugar 4 cups flour sifted 

J cup butter 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

4 eggs, whites only 1 teaspoonful baking powder 
i cup sweet milk 

Bake in jelly cake tins, and fill wih vanilla icing. 

Spice Cake 

5 eggs 2J cups flour, sifted 

I cup butter 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon 

1 cup granulated sugar 1 teaspoonful ground cloves 

1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoonful grated nutmeg 

J cup sweet milk 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten yolks, milk, and the flour 
to which has been added spices and yeast powder, bake in layer 
and fill with white icing. 

Cream Filling 

I cup rich milk (not cream) 3 cups sugar 

Put in the stove and boil 20 minutes, pour in a cold dish and 
beat until stiff. Flavor to taste. 

Caramel Icing 

1 pound brown sugar J cup milk 

i pound butter 

Boil 10 minutes, remove from the fire and beat until it begins 
to cream and is thick enough to spread on cake. To make white 
icing use granulated sugar instead of brown. 



132 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Cinnamon Icing 

1 cup butter 2 heaping tablespoonf uls cinnamon 

2 cups brown sugar 

Put on stove until soft, and spread on top of the cake. 

Vanilla Filling 

2 cups xxxx sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

J cup cream 

Orange Filling 

2 cups xxxx sugar 2 tablespoonfuls juice 

grated rind of 1 orange 2 tablespoonfuls boiling water 

Boiled Icing 

2 cups sugar J teaspoonful cream of tartar 
i cup water (scant) flavor to taste 

3 eggs, whites 

Boil the sugar with the water until it spins a thread without 
stirring, and pour it in the thinnest possible stream on the well- 
beaten whites, into which has been beaten the cream of tartar, 
and beat constantly. Stand away in a cold place until ready to 
use. 

Boiled Icing 

1 pound sugar 3 tablespoonfuls water 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 2 eggs, whites 

Boil without stirring until it begins to candy, and pour into 2 
well-beaten whites, beating hard. 

Cream Filling 

2 cups granulated sugar 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Boil the sugar and milk until it spins a thread, add the butter, 

stir until cool, flavor. If it seems too stiff thin with a little water, 

not milk. 



CAKES 133 

Almond Cream Filling 
Whip i cup of rich cream, stirring gradually into it 2 
cups of pulverized sugar, a few drops of vanilla, and 1 pound 
of almonds blanched and chopped fine. 

Nut Filling 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 cup chopped English walnuts 

i cup of water 1 cup chopped candied fruit 

2 eggs, whites 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Boil sugar and water until it hairs. Pour slowly into the well- 
beaten whites, beating constantly. Divide the icing, stir in the 
chopped nuts and fruit between the layers, and on top spread 
the white icing and place halves of walnuts. 

Chocolate Icing 

i cake of chocolate 1 cup sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls milk 1 tablespoonful butter 

3 tablespoonfuls boiling water 

Mix all well together, and boil 5 minutes. Beat until stiff, 
and spread. 

Chocolate Filling 

Whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff with xxxx sugar, J cake 
chocolate, melted over hot water, flavor with vanilla, 1 table- 
spoonful cream. 

Caramel Filling 

2 cups brown sugar 1 tablespoonful cornstarch 

i cup cream 1 teaspoonful vaniUa ' 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Boil until it thickens, then add the vanilla. 

Orange or Lemon Filling 

Two cups granulated sugar and ^ cup of water, boil untU 
it spins a thread. Beat whites of 2 eggs, stiff, and pour the hot 



134 l-fiE CHtTBCa COOK fiOOK 

syrup in a thin stream over them, beating rapidly all the time. 
Flavor with juice and grated rind of 1 orange and 1 teaspoonful 
vanilla. Spread while warm. 

Maple Sugar Filling 

1 cup pf sweet cream i cup chopped English walnuts 

2 cups maple sugar 

Boil the cream and maple sugar, broken and well rolled, untU 
it wUl spin a thread, about 40 minutes, let it cool some and add 
the nuts, beat untU it becomes creamy and spread on the cake. 

Chocolate Kisses 

Sift together 2 ounces of grated chocolate and 1 pound 
of powdered sugar, then mix into it the well-beaten whites of 2 
eggs. Drop the mixture in little heaps on buttered paper, and 
bake in a slow oven. 

Kisses 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 1 cup granulated 
sugar beaten in gradually; flavor with vamlla. Bake in slow 
oven on ungreased plain white paper until it puffs up and dries. 

Buttercup Cakes 

Cream well i cup of butter and gradually work in 1 cup of 
powdered sugar. Add to this the beaten yolks of 9 eggs and 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat in alternately | cup of milk 
and 3 cups of flour. Beat well for 5 minutes, stir in 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder and fill gem pans three-fourths full. Bake 
in a moderate oven, ice with yellow icing. 



CAKES 135 

Cry Babies 

1 egg 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 1 cup 
1 cup sugar boiling water 

1 cup lard J nutmeg 

1 cup molasses 5 cups flour 

Drop on greased tins and bake in quick oven. 

Rocks 

IJ cups brown sugar 2 J cups flour 

1 scant cup butter 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

3 eggs J pound raisins 

1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in J i pound walnuts 

cup warm water § pound currants 

Drop on greased tins. 

Jumbles 

li cup of sugar 3 tablespoonfuls of sour cream 

1 cup of butter 1 teaspoonful soda 

2 eggs nutmeg to taste 

Add flour to make a soft dough. Roll them thin in fine pow- 
dered sugar. Bake a light brown in a moderate oven. 

Doughnuts 

One cup of sweet milk, i cup of butter, 2 eggs beaten very 
light, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, flavor with nutmeg or 
vanilla, and add flour enough to roll out; 1 cup of sugar, sift 
over powdered sugar as soon as taken out of the boiling lard. 

Crullers 

2 cups sugair 6 eggs 

} pound butter 2 teaspoonfuls baldng powder 

1 cup milk 1 tablespoonful cinnamon 

Cream butter and sugar, then add milk, and the weU-beaten 
eggs, flour. Add sufficient flour to make a soft dough. Roll 



136 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

out. Cut with a cake cutter, fry in hot krd and when brown 
drain on brown paper and dredge with powdered sugar. 

Chocolate Wafers 

1 cup brown sugar 1 egg 

1 cup white sugar 1 cup butter 

1 cup grated chocolate 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Flour enough to thicken. Roll thin and bake. 

Crisps 

1 cup flour 1 egg 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoonful vinegar 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoonful ginger 

RoU in a very thin sheet and bake on bottom of a pan. Cut in 

squares whUe hot. 

Ginger Cakes 

3 pounds flour 5 ounces ginger 

1 pound butter 1 tablespoonful cinnamon 

1 pound sugar 1 quart molasses 



Ron out thin. 



Soft Ginger Cakes 



i gallon N. O. molasses i teaspoonful powdered alum 

10 ounces butter 2 tablespoonfuls ginger 

2 ounces baking soda flour to make soft dough 

Cream the butter, add the molasses, the soda dissolved in § 
cup sweet milk, alum dissolved in just enough cold water to cover 
it, ginger and flour. Make up at night, cover with a cloth and 
leave in a warm place. In the morning roll, cut, and take as 
many as you need, the balance of the dough will keep for weeks 
in a covered dish in a cool place. Before rolling out the dough 
should be kneaded like bread dough. 



CAKES 137 



Sand Tarts 



1 pound butter 2 pounds sugar 

3 eggs 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

2 pounds flour 

Cream the butter with the sugar, the eggs well-beaten, then 
the flour into which the baking powder has been sifted. Roll 
out thin, brush with egg, sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar 
mixed, and decorate with halves of almonds. Bake in a slow 
oven. 

Cookies, Chocolate and Nut 

1 cup sugar i cup flour 

i cup walnuts, chopped 2 squares chocolate melted 

2 eggs, beaten separately vanilla to flavor 
i cup butter 

Cream butter and sugar, add chopped nuts, flour, eggs, choco- 
late and vanilla. Spread very thinly on inverted tins. 



Peanut Cookies 

4 tablespoonfuls butter 1 cup peanuts, chopped 

J cup sugar 1 cup flour 

2 eggs 4 tablespoonfuls milk 

1 teaspoonful lemon juice 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

Cream the butter and sugar, then the eggs, milk, peanuts, 
flour into which the baking powder has been sifted; flavor. Drop 
from a teaspoon onto paper, and place two half-peanuts on top 
of each. Bake from 12 to 15 minutes in a slow oven. The 
cookies should be about an inch and a quarter apart, or they will 
run together. This recipe should make 4 dozen. 

Permission of Baltimore Sun. 



138 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Oatmeal Macaroons 

2} cups of rolled oats 1 cup sugar 

2i teaspoonfuls baking powder 3 eggs, beaten separately 

i teaspoonf ul salt 1 teaspoonful vanilla 
3 level tablespoonfuls butter 

Cream the butter, add the sugar and beaten egg yolks, then 
oatmeal, salt and baking powder, then the vanilla, and last egg 
whites; drop in very small bits on a shallow butter pan, 3 
inches between each two, and bake in a very slow oven until 
brown; remove while stiU warm. 

Copyright, Harper's Bazar. 

Nut Sticks 

1 egg 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

butter size of a large egg 4 tablespoonfuls brown sugar 

1 cup chopped nut meats 4 tablespoonfuls flour 

pinch of salt and dash of black 1 tablespoonful molafises 
pepper 

Spread thinly with knife dipped in hot water on inverted cake 

tins. Bake in moderate oven and cut in strips at once. 

Sugar Cakes 

1 cup sugar J cup butter 

1 egg 1 heaping teaspoonful baking pow- 

2 large tablespoonfuls milk or der 

water 

Put in flour enough for a soft dough, roll out thin, cut in roimd 
cakes and bake in quick oven. 

Maple Sugar Cookies 

i pound granulated sugar 2 eggs, well beaten 

i pound maple sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

1 cup butter 

Add flour enough to make a soft dough, roll thin, and bake in 
a quick oven. 



CANDY 

Eaten at proper times, candy is a useful article of food. It at 
present forms part of the rations of the soldiers in this country. 
It should not be eaten to excess, nor between meals. In cooking 
sugar for candy, use an agate or iron pan, as it is less liable to 
burn than in tin. Butter pans for candy before it is cooked. 

Have ready some cold water in which to try the candy. 

When the candy is poured into the pan, do not scrape the 
sauce pan over it, or allow any of the scrapings to fall into it. 
Scraping or stirring the candy while cooling will cause it to become 
sugary. Acid substances, as cream of tartar, vinegar or lemon 
juice, added to the candy while cooking, will help to keep it clear. 

Barley Candy 

1 cup granulated sugar J cup water 

I teaspoonful cream of tartar, or 1 teaspoonful lemon juice or vinegar 

Mix ingredients together before heating. Cook, without stir- 
ring, until a few drops put into cold water wiU harden. BoU 
until the syrup begins to turn light yellow; remove at once from 
fire, and turn into a buttered pan. When nearly cool, mark in 
squares with a slightly warmed and buttered chopping knife. 
The candy may be cooled in round muffin pans. 

This candy is used to cover nuts, etc., which are then called 
glac6 nuts. As soon as candy begins to change color, remove 
sauce pan from the fire: dip 1 or 2 nuts at a time into the 
sjTup, disturbing the candy as little as possible. As the syrup 
cools, it may be reheated once or twice, but is liable to burn after 
the second time 



140 THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 

Syrup for Snowballs 

2 cups molasses 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

i cup sugar 

Cook together until it is brittle when tested in cold water. 
Pour over popcorn shaped into balls. To use for candy add i 
teaspoonful of cooking soda before pouring into the pans. 
When slightly cool, pull untU light colored, and cut into pieces. 

Cocoanut Drops 

i cup sugar 1 cup grated cocoanut 

i cup molasses 

Cook sugar, molasses and cocoanut together, stirring constantly 
until a little of the mixture will harden in cold water. Remove 
from fire, and stir until it thickens; drop by the spoonful on 
buttered pan and cool, 

Peanut Candy 

} cup chopped peanuts, or left 2 cups granulated sugar 

whole, as preferred 

Remove the skin from the shelled peanuts; chop or roll the 

nuts fine, and warm them in a dish placed on the back of the stove. 

Have ready a tin sheet or an inverted baking pan, slightly warmed 

to keep candy from cooling too quickly. Melt the sugar in an 

agate or iron sauce pan, stirring constantly, to prevent burning. 

When melted to a clear, light syrup, stir in the chopped peanuts, 

and turn at once on to the pan, which need not be buttered. 

Shape as nearly square as possible, and mark into squares before 

the candy cools. 

Horehound Candy 

J square inch pressed horehound IJ cup sugar 

J cup boiling water i teaspoonful cream of tartar 

Pour the boiling water on the horehound; let it stand 1 minute 

and strain through a cloth. Put the strained liquid into a sauce 



CANDY 141 

pan with the sugar and cream of tartar, and boil until it hardens 

when tried in cold water, and begin to change color. Do not stir 

when boiling. Pour into buttered pans, and cut into squares 

while warm. 

Butter Taffy 

2 cups brown sugar J cup butter 

juice of i lemon, or 1 tablespoon- 2 tablespoonfuls water 
ful vinegar 

Cook all the ingredients together until mixture will harden 

when tested in cold water. Pour into a buttered pan, and mark 

into squares while warm. Half cup of chopped nuts may be 

added. 

Chocolate Mints 

whites of 2 eggs 6 drops oil of peppermint or 15 

2 tablespoonfuls rich cream drops of essence of pepper- 

2 pounds (about) xxxx con- mint 
fectioners sugar 

Beat the whites oi the eggs, not too stiff, add peppermint, 
beat in gradually about a cup of sugar, then alternate the cream 
and sugar, not letting it get either thin or very stiff until all the 
cream is used, and then stiffen with sugar until hard enough to 
mold into discs. Lay these on oiled paper for about an hom*. 
Melt unsweetened chocolate and with two forks dip the discs 
quickly into the chocolate and lay on the oiled paper until dry. 
These cannot be kept long as the cream sours. 

Cream Candies 

Make same as chocolate mints substituting any desired flavor- 
ing, vanilla or fresh fruit juices, instead of the peppermint; form 
into balls, and when sufficiently hardened dip into unsweetened 
chocolate. Chopped nuts or fruit added to the cream before 
molding make a pleasing variety. 



142 THE CHUBCH COOK BOOK 

Walnut Creams 

A ball of the cream with vanilla flavoring between the halves 
of an English walnut. 

Cream Dates 

Press a baU of the cream with vanilla flavoring into the date 
from which the seed has been removed. Roll in granulated 
sugar. 

Nut Dates 

Remove the seed from dates and in its place insert a whole 
peanut or blanched almond. Roll in granulated sugar. 

Pinoche 

To 3 cups of light brown sugar, take 1 cup of cream. When 
it comes to a boil, add a tablespoonful of butter and a pinch of 
salt. Boil until it hardens in cold water, then add as many 
English walnuts or blanched almonds as desired, and enough 
vaniUa to flavor. Stir rapidly until it spins a thread and pour 
out to cool. 

Molasses Candy 

Take a cup of granulated sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
to 2 cups of molasses. Boil hard, stirring often, until it is hard 
when dropped into cold water. Add and stir in thoroughly about 
as much soda as you can put on the end of a table knife, and turn 
into shallow buttered pans. When cool pull until light. 

Maple Sugar Candy, with Nuts 

Put 1 J cup of maple sugar into a sauce pan, and when melted 
stir in a tablespoonful of butter, J cup of milk, and 2 table- 
spoonfids of cream. Let it all cook together until it "ropes," 
stirring occasionally. Poiir out and let cool a little, then stir 



CANDY 143 

until creamy. When it begins to get stiff add a cupful of chopped 
walnuts and almonds, and pour into shallow buttered pans. 

Peppermint Drops 

2 cups sugar 1 tablespoonful pulverized sugar 
i cup boiling water 6 drops oil of peppermint 

i teaspoonful cream tartar 

Boil sugar and water together 4 minutes, remove from fire, 
add cream tartar, powdered sugar and peppermint. Stir 2 min- 
utes, and drop on manilla paper. 

Butter Scotch 

3 pounds of brown sugar J teaspoonful lemon extract 

i pound butter sufficient water to dissolve sugar 

i teaspoonful cream tartar 

Boil sugar, water, butter and cream tartar without stirring 

until it wiU easily break when put in cold water. When cooked 

add lemon extract, pour in well buttered pan I inch thick. When 

partly cold mark off in small squares and break apart when cold. 

Chocolate Candy 

1 pound granulated sugar 1 tablespoonful butter 

i pound chocolate 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 

J pint cream 

Boil aU but vanilla till stiff, add flavoring, and drop on greased 
paper in cakes with a spoon. 

Kisses 

1 pound xxxx sugar vanilla 

2 eggs, whites only 

Beat eggs and sugar thoroughly, flavor to taste. Cook in 
covered blazer. 



144 THE CHDECH COOK BOOK 

Caramels 

i pound chocolate 1 large piece of butter 

2 pounds light brown sugar 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 

Put all on stove and allow to dissolve, then put on the front, 
and boil hard 5 minutes, stirring continually. Add vanilla and 
beat 5 minutes, and pour into greased pan. Mark in squares 
when partly cold. 

Caramels 

i cake chocolate 1 tablespoonful butter 

li pounds granulated sugar 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 

1 cup sweet milk 

Grate the chocolate, add sugar, milk and butter. Put in a 
sauce pan over a quick fire, and cook 10 minutes or until the 
mixture hardens well, when put in cold water, then add vanilla. 
Stir constantly, put in greased pans, and mark off before entirely 
cold. 

Caramels 

1 cake of chocolate J pound butter or less 
^ cup of milk 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

2 pounds brown sugar 

Boil about 20 minutes after it comes to a boil on a slow fire. 
Take from the fire, and beat until they get a little sugary, pour in 
greased pans, and when cool cut in squares. 

Pulled Caramel 

J cake Baker's chocolate 2 ounces butter 

3 cups granulated sugar 1 cup milk 

3 cups brown sugar vanilla to taste 

Melt butter and chocolate, then add sugar and milk, boil from 
20 to 30 minutes. Do not stir after sugar is put in; when it 
forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water, take from fire, add 
vanilla and pour in buttered dishes. When cold enough to handle 
pull until creamy and form in sticks. 



CANDY 145 

Fudge 

1 quart granulated sugar 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 cup milk 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 

i cake chocolate 

Boil 9 minutes, stirring constantly, remove from the fire, and 

stir 5 minutes. Pour in greased pans and when partly cool 

mark in squares. 

Maple Fudge 

3 cups of maple sugar, well roUed butter, size of a walnut 

1 cup milk 

Mix all together, and cook until it boils away from the sides 
of the kettle, beating aU the time, until cold. Pour on buttered 
plates and mark in squares. 

Nut Caramels 

J cake chocolate 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 pound granulated sugar f cup milk 

i pound English walnuts 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Boil all but vaniUa and nuts 15 minutes, and just before re- 
moving from the stove add nuts. Beat 5 minutes and add 
vanilla. 

Cream Candy Loaf 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 tablespoonful cornstarch 

1 cup water 1 small teaspoonful gelatine 

Boil together sugar, water, and cornstarch. While boiling, 
add the gelatine, which has been soakedl Drop a little in cold 
water. As soon as you can feel a substance in the bottom of 
cup it has boiled enough. If boiled until it hardens in water you 
can do nothing with it. Take from fire and beat until it stiffens, 
then add sliced peaches, pears and conserved cherries. Mix care- 
fully and pack in a deep dish. Let this get perfectly cold, 
then slice. 



146 THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 

Candy 

2 pounds sugar J pint water 

1 pound raisins, seeded J teacup vinegar 

i pound figs 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

} pound citron 1 orange, sliced 

Boil water, sugar, butter and vinegar, without stirring, until 
it spins a thread from a spoon. Just before removing from fire 
add other ingredients. 

White Cream Candy 

li pound granulated sugar 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar 1 teaspoonful vaniUa 
1 cup water 

Boil without stirring imtil it spins a thread from a spoon. Pull 
imtil light and porous. 

Chocolate Creams 

1 cup sugar i cup water 

Boil until it spins a thread from a spoon, take off the stove, 
and flavor with vanilla. Beat until cold enough to mold in the 
hands. Drop small balls in unsweetened chocolate, melted, and 
drop on buttered plates. 

French Nougat 

} pound gum arabic 1 cup xxxx sugar 

1 cup water J pound blanched and chopped 

2 eggs, whites nuts 
1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Dissolve the gum arabic in the water, add the sugar, and stir 
over the fire until it thickens and add gradually the well beaten 
whites, flavor, add the nuts, pour on a dish to cool, cut in long 
bars and wrap in paraflfine. 



CANDY 147 

Nougat 

1 pound maple sugar butter size of a walnut 

J cup water 

Boil until it stiffens in water, then add 1 teacup finely chopped 

nuts. Put in buttered tins and cut in squares when cool. 

Everton Taffy 

1 pound sugar 1 quart molasses 

J pound butter rind of 1 lemon, grated 

Mix well and boil on slow fire 1 hour. 



FREEZING 

Salt and ice make a freezing mixture several degrees colder 
than ice alone. Solids changing to liquids absorb heat from 
surroimding bodies. As the ice changes to liquid (water) it ab- 
sorbs heat. Salt has a strong attraction for water, and makes 
the ice melt more quickly; the salt also changes to a liquid, ab- 
sorbing stiQ more heat. This heat is taken by the ice and salt 
from the mixture which is to be frozen, around which they are 
closely packed. The smaller the pieces of ice the more quickly 
they change to liquid, and the more salt used the more quickly 
is the mixture frozen, but if too much salt is used the frozen mix- 
ture win be coarse-grained. Experience has shown that the best 
proportion to use is two parts chopped ice and one part rock salt. 

As liquids expand in freezing, the can of the freezer should 
never be more than three-quarters full. If too full the cover 
may be pushed up, allowing the salt water to get in. 

Directions for Freezing 

Place the can of the freezer in the proper position in the pail; 
put in the dasher, and pour in the mixture to be frozen. Cover 
and adjust the handle so that it turns freely. Surround the can 
with alternate layers of ice and salt in the proportion given, be- 
ginning with the ice. As the ice and salt melt, more should be 
added to keep the freezer full. Turn steadily until the mixture 
becomes so stiff that turning is diflficult. Wipe the cover so that 
when it is removed no salt water can drop into the can. Take 
out the dasher, and with a long-handled spoon pack the frozen 



FREEZING 149 

mixture solidly. Replace the cover, putting a cork in the open- 
ing. Cover the freezer with a thick cloth, "and set aside in a cool 
place. 

If not wanted for some time after making, the "cream" or 
" ice " may be packed or molded. In this case the water should 
be drained off, and the mold or can should be repacked solidly 
in ice and salt, and be well covered in a cool place until wanted. 

Milk Sherbet 

2 cups sugar 1 quart milk 

i cup lemon juice, strained 

Mix the sugar and the strained lemon juice; put the milk into 

the freezer can, and pour the lemon juice and sugar into it. Stir 

thoroughly, cover and freeze. One-fourth teaspoonful of lemon 

extract may be added if desired. 

Philadelphia Ice Cream 

1 quart thin cream 1 tablespoonful vanilla 

1 cup sugar 

Mix ingredients and freeze; 1 pint of heavy cream, mixed with 
3 cups of milk may be used instead of thin cream. 

Ice Cream for One 

Put into a wide-mouthed glass jar or a water tight cocoa or 
baking powder can ^ cup cream, 4 teaspoonfuls sugar and 15 drops 
vanilla or lemon extract. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Cover, 
and place can or jar in a bowl or pail, and surround it with broken 
ice and salt in usual proportions — 1 part salt to 2 parts ice. Turn 
the can or jar back and forth constantly. Take off the cover 
occasionally, and scrape the frozen cream from the sides and stir 
thoroughly. Replace cover, and repeat until cream is evenly 
frozen. 



150 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Frozen Custard 

Make a custard of 1 quart milk, yolks of 4 eggs and 1^ cup of 
sugar, and a pinch of salt. "When cool add J pint of cream, the 
beaten whites, and 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla and freeze. 

Plain Vanilla Ice Cream 

1 quart milk 1 pint of rich cream (more if you 

1 tablespoonful cornstarch have it) 

2 cups of sugar 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 

Scald the milk, dissolve the cornstarch in a little cold water, 
and add to the milk, then the sugar, cook until creamy, cool, add 
cream and vanilla and freeze. 

Vanilla or Lemon Ice Cream 

1 quart cream 3 cups granulated sugar 

1 pint rich milk flavor, vanilla or lemon 

Strawberry Ice Cream 

1 pint cream 1 quart strawberries, crushed 

1 pint milk 4 cupfuls granulated sugar 

Peach Ice Cream 

1 pint cream J peck ripe peaches, crushed with 

1 pint milk a silver fork 

4 cupfuls granulated sugar 

Bisque Ice Cream 

1 quart cream 4 cupfuls sugar 

1 pint milk 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Roll 1 dozen macaroons, and add to the cream. 



FREEZING 151 

Chocolate Ice Cream 

2 squares chocolate, grated Tpint milk 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 pint cream 

Put the milk, chocolate and sugar into a double-boiler and stir 
until smooth. When cool add the vaniUa and cream, and freeze. 

Coffee Ice Cream 

1 pint cream 1 pint strong coffee 

1 pint milk 2 cupfuls sugar 

Pineapple Ice Cream 

1 pint cream 1^ pound sugar 

1 pint milk 1 grated pineapple 

Vanilla Cream and Coffee 

Take a pint of thick cream, whip until stiff, flavor with black 
coffee, sweeten, and put a spoonful on plain vanilla cream, served 
in glasses. 

Tutti Frutti 

To every i gallon of rich vanilla ice cream add 1 quart of caii- 
died fruit, mixed nuts, and candied peel. When partly frozen, 
add juice of an orange, freeze, and stand aside to ripen. 

Cafe Frape 

Take a quart of strong coffee, sweetened while hot, and add a 
pint of rich cream and when cold freeze to the consistency of wet 
snow, serve in glasses. 

Frozen Cherries 

1 quart water 1 pint cream 

1 quart stoned cherries, the large 2 cupfuls sugar 
rich, red ones are best 



152 THE CHTJBCH COOK BOOK 

Orange Ice 

3 pints water 8 oranges 

IJ pound sugar 3 lemons 

Grate the rind of 4 oranges, add to the sugar and water, stir 

until the sugar melts, boil, cool, strain, and add the juice of the 

oranges and lemons. 

Lemon Sherbet 

2 quarts water IJ pound sugar 

6 lemons 6 eggs, whites 

Grate the rind of 2 lemons, and the juice of all, add the sugar 
and the whites of the eggs, mix weU together and strain. 

Currant Water Ice 

1 pint water 1 pint currant juice 

1 pound sugar 

Boil the water and sugar together for 5 minutes, and cool. 
When cold add currant juice, stir well and freeze. 

Pineapple Ice 

2 pounds sugar 1 large grated pineapple 

2 quarts water 

Boil the sugar and water for 5 minutes, and cool. When cold 
add the grated pineapple, stir well and freeze. The pineapple 
may be strained if you prefer. 

Frozen Pudding 

3 cups French chestnuts 2 cups sugar 
1 pound candied fruit 1 cup water 

4 eggs (yolks) 1 pint cream 
wineglass sherry 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Boil the chestnuts, remove shell and skins, and rub them 
through a sieve. Cut the fruit in small pieces, and pour the wine 



FREEZING 153 

over them. Make a syrup of the sugar and water, and when it 
thickens pour into the well-beaten yolks, return to the fire and 
when it reaches the boiling point, beat until cool, and pour over 
the nuts, fruit and wine; add the cream whipped to a stiff froth, 
flavor, and freeze. 

Frozen Pudding with a Compote of Orange 

3 eggs, yolks i pound sugar 

1 pint cream J pound of chopped candied fruit 

1 pint water 

Beat the yolks to a cream. Boil the sugar and water, and 5 

minutes after they begin to boil add a little of the syrup to the 

yolks, mix, then return it to the sauce pan, and beat over the 

fire for about 1 minute. Take from the fire, stand the sauce pan 

in a pan of cold water, and beat the mixture until cold, changing 

the water or adding ice. Add to the cold egg mixture the chopped 

fruit. Freeze it slowly until quite hard, then remove the dasher 

and stir in the cream that has been whipped to a stiff froth and 

drained. Cover the can, repack, and stand aside for at least 2 

hours. When ready to serve dip the can quickly in a pan of 

warm water, and turn the pudding in a deep dish. Arrange 

quickly the compote, and send to the table. This is one of the 

most sightly and palatable of the simple frozen puddings. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

Compote of Oranges 

6 nice oranges 1 lemon 

1 pound sugar i cup of sherry, if you use wine 

Separate the oranges into carpels without tearing the thin 
membrane covering each carpel Boil the sugar with the lemon 
juice and J pint of water for 5 minutes, or until the sjniip will 
spin a thread. Take it from the fire, and add the oranges; mix 



154 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

them well with the hot syrup, cover and set aside to cool. Add 
the sherry to them at serving time. They must be very cold or 
they will melt the pudding. 

Copyright, Mrs. S. T. Rorer. 

Maple Mousse 

Whip 1 quart of cream until thick. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs 
in another bowl until light and add gradually 1 cup of maple 
syrup. When the two are well mixed whip them gradually into 
the cream. Pour into freezer or can without the dasher, or into 
a mold. Pack in salt and ice. Let stand 3 hours. 

Plain Vanilla Parfait 

Parfaits are more easily made than ice creams or ices, since 
they do not require to be put into the freezer. This rule is for 
the simplest of all. Beat the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth. 
Put ^ cup of sugar and ^ cup of water on the fire, and stir until 
the sugar dissolves ; then let it cook until it threads. Pour very 
slowly over the egg whites, beating all the time. Flavor with 
vanilla, and when cold fold in a pint of cream whipped stiff. Put 
into a mold, and bury for 4 or 5 hours. 

Copyright, Harper's Bazar. 

Chocolate Sauce 

1 cup milk J cake chocolate 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoonful cornstarch 

Scald the milk, stir in the cornstarch which has been wet in a 
little cold milk. Break up the chocolate, and melt by adding 
a little at a time, the thickened milk until all is used ; stir in the 
sugar and boil for 1 minute, keep hot over water until ready to 
serve; just before serving add 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 



BEVERAGES 

To Make Coffee 

Take 1 tablespoonful of fresh ground coffee for each person; 
make it moist with the white of an egg and a httle cold water, 
stir well ; and pour over it a cupful of boiling water for each spoon- 
ful of coffee, and then add one extra for " the pot. " Set it where it 
will simmer, not boil, for 15 minutes. 

To Make Drip Coffee 

Scald the pot and let it be thoroughly heated. Put the pul- 
verized coffee in the percolator, using the same proportions as in 
the former recipe, and pour the freshly boiling water on the 
upper sieve. It must be kept very hot, and served at once. 

To Make Tea 

Scald the teapot well with hot water. The general rule is a 
teaspoonful of tea for every two cups of boiling water, but as teas 
vary so you cannot go by any set rule. The water must be 
taken at its first boil; it must steep from eight to ten minutes. 
Serve very hot. 

Russian Tea 

Make as directed for tea. Add a thin slice of lemon, without 
seeds, or a few drops of lemon juice for each cup. It may be 
served hot or cold, sugar may be added if desired, never use 
milk. 



156 THE CHUKCH COOK BOOK 

Cocoa 

8 teaspoonfuls cocoa 1 cup boiling water 

4 teaspoonfuls sugar 2} cups milk 

Heat the milk in a double boiler until small bubbles appear 

around the edge; mix cocoa and sugar thoroughly in a sauce pan; 

add boUing water, and boil 3 minutes; add the scalded milk and 

bring to the boiling point. If not served at once, cover, to keep 

the scum from forming. Beating with an egg beater until frothy 

will prevent scum from forming. Equal parts of milk and 

water may be used. If a richer cocoa is wanted, use less water. 

The quantity of cocoa needed varies slightly, according to kind 

used. 

Chocolate 

2 squares unsweetened chocolate 3 cups boiling water 

2 tablespoonf uls sugar 3 cups of miUc 

Scald the milk; cut or scrape the chocolate, and mix with 
sugar and a little of the water; heat together in a sauce pan, stir 
until mixture is smooth. Add remainder of the water, and the 
scalded milk. Boil 2 minutes. Beat wth an egg beater until 
foamy. Serve at once. 

Orangeade 

Steep the peel of 3 oranges in 1 pint of boiling water for 10 
minutes. Add one pint of sugar and boil 20 minutes. Add 
juice of 6 oranges and 2 lemons and strain; then add IJ quart of 
ice water. Serve with cracked ice. 

Cherryade 
Wash 1 pound of Morello cherries and pour over them 3 pints 
of boiling water. Let them steep 3 hours. Make the syrup 
by boiling a cup of sugar and one of water for 20 minutes. Mix 
with the cherries and let stand, occasionally pressing out the 
juice. Strain and chill and serve with cracked ice. 



BEVERAGES 157 



Lemonade 



Squeeze the juice from 4 lemons; make a syrup with 2 cups of 
granulated sugar; then add the lemon cut in small pieces. Let 
stand until ready to use; then add 3 pints of ice water. Stir 
until the water is well mixed with the juice ; strain and serve. Or 
you may use the juice of an orange in place of a lemon. 

Apple Water, Rhubarb Water, Lemonade 

Wash and wipe a sour apple. Cut into pieces, put into a 
sauce pan with one cup of cold water. Cook until the apple is 
soft. Strain through cheese-cloth or clean linen, sweeten to 
taste, and serve cold. A stalk of rhubarb may be used instead 
of the apple, for rhubarb water. Rhubarb or an apple with 
red skin wiU give a pleasing color to the water. Other acid fruits 
may be used in the same way. In making lemonade for an 
invalid, use boiling water instead of cold water. It may then 
be served hot or cold. 

Egg Lemonade 

1 egg 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 cup water 

Beat the egg thoroughly, and add the sugar and lemon juice; 
add the water slowly, stirring until smooth, and well mixed. 
Strain and serve. A little grated nutmeg may be added if liked. 

Egg Nogg 

1 egg pinch salt 

1 tablespoonful sugar grating of nutmeg 

1 cup rich milk 

Beat the eggs thoroughly, add sugar and salt, then the mUk, 
and beat again. Strain, and grate nutmeg. The egg may be 
separated, and the beaten white added after the straining, or the 



158 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

egg white only may be used with the milk, making albumenized 
milk. 

Raspberry Vinegar 

Put the raspberries into a stone vessel and mash them to a 
pulp; add good cider vinegar, enough to cover it well; stand in 
the sun 12 hours and then all night in the cellar; stir up well 
occasionally, during this time; strain and put in as many fresh 
berries in the jar as you took out ; pour the strained vinegar over 
them, mash and set in the sun all day; strain a second time next 
day. To each quart of this juice allow 1 pint of water, 5 pounds 
of white sugar for every 3 pints of this liquid, juice and water 
mixed. Place over a gentle fire and stir untU the sugar is dis- 
solved. Heat slowly to boUing, skimming off the scum, and as 
soon as it fairly boils, take off and strain. Bottle while warm, 
and seal the corks with sealing wax. This is a most refreshing 
drink, mixed one-fourth vinegar to three-fourths ice water. No 
glazed or metallic vessel should be used in making it. 

Raspberry Shrub 

For every cupful of fruit juice, take | cup of cider vinegar 
and 2 cups of sugar. Put the fruit juice, sugar and vinegar 
over the fire, stir untU the sugar dissolves, and then boil to a 
thick syrup. Skim, if necessary, strain and bottle. Serve 
mixed with ice water. Juices of other fruits may be prepared 
in the same way. 

Ginger Beer 

4 pounds good brown sugar or 2 IJ ounce cream tartar 
quarts molasses IJ ounce race ginger 

Mix these thoroughly and pour over them 4 gallons boiling 
water, and bottle, cork tightly. 



BEVEKAGES 159 

Patent Gas Sherbet 

Put i ounce of baking soda in a quart jar, pour on 1 pint of 
boiling water, add 1| pound of white sugar, mix it well together. 
Beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth, mix J tablespoonftil of 
flour into the eggs, then beat all together. Flavor with a tea- 
spoonful of the oil of lemon. Mix. Mix separately in a large 
jar 1 ounce of tartaric acid with | pint of cold water. 

Directions: One spoonful of the acid put into a goblet and 1 
spoonful of the syrup put into another glass. Put a little more 
than J glass of water to the syrup, pour together and drink. 

Flaxseed Tea 

Pick over 1 tablespoonful of flaxseed. Put into a strainer 
and pour cold water over it. Put the flaxseed with 2 cups cold 
water into a sauce pan and boil 1 hour. Add more water as it 
boils away. There should be two cups when the tea is cooked. 
Strain, add lemon juice and sugar to taste, and serve hot or cold. 

Punch 

Put 24 teaspoonf uls green tea and the thin rind of 1 dozen lemons 
in 3 quarts cold water and bring to a boil. When boiling point 
is reached strain and pour it over 5^ pounds cut loaf sugar, add to 
its quarts Jamaica rum and IJpint whiskey, squeeze in this the 
juice of the dozen lemons from which the rind had been taken, 
strain and drink sparingly. 

Blackberry Cordial 

Stew the berries until quite soft, and strain through wire sieve. 
Add I pound of granulated sugar to one quart of the strained 
juice, and also J tablespoonful of grated nutmeg and 1 tablespoon- 
ful ground cinnamon. Allow it to simmer until thick, and, when 
cold, add a pint of brandy to a quart of the syrup, and bottle it. 



160 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Fniit Punch 

1 pint fresh strawberry juice J cup grated pineapple 

6 lemons, juice 2 cups sugar 

3 oranges, juice 

Make a syrup of 1 pint of W9,ter, and the sugar, add the fruit 
juices, remove from fire and add 1 pint of ice water. When 
cold serve in glasses, with crushed ice, and a whole strawberry. 

A Simple Claret Cup 

Put the juice of 2 lemons and 4 oranges with a teacupful of 
sugar into a tall glass pitcher, add 3 or 4 slices of the orange, 3 or 4 
slices of pineapple, a pint of cold tea, and set away in a cold place 
for several hours. When ready to serve fill the pitcher half full 
of broken ice and add a pint of claret. 

Mint Julep 

Place in a tall glass several long sprigs of fresh mint, strip 2 
other sprigs of mint and place them in a mixing glass, add a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar. Crush the mint leaves, add a wine 
glass of whisky, stir and strain into the original glass. Sprinkle 
a little sugar over the leaves, add some powdered ice, and serve 
with a straw. 

Grape Juice 

Pick over, stem and wash as many quarts of concord grapes as 
needed. Place in a double boiler in just enough water to cover, 
cold water in the bottom, heat slowly xmtil the fruit is soft, sev- 
eral hours. Drain without pressing in a jelly bag, add J pound 
sugar to every 2 cups of juice and heat to 200° F. Have your 
bottles well sterilized, fill and cork the bottles tight; keep 
in a cool place. It can be served with apoUinaris, plain ice 
water, or as a lemonade. 



BEVERAGES 



161 



Toast Water 

Toast water can often be taken when the stomach will retain 
nothing else. Use equal measures of bread, cut in J inch cubes, 
and boiling water. Dry bread in oven until crisp and brown. 
Pour boUing water over toast and let stand 1 hour. Strain 
through cheese-cloth, salt to taste, and serve very hot or very 
cold. 

Rice Water 
2 tablespoonfuls rice 4 cups boiling water 

- Pick over and wash rice, boil in a sauce pan 2 hours or more; 
strain, add salt or sugar, serve hot or cold. Lemonade made of 
rice water when cold is very refreshing. 




PRESERVES AND JELLIES 

Directions for Jelly Making 

If large fruit, cut in small pieces, and nearly cover with water; 
it depends on fruit as to exact amount of water. Cover the 
kettle, and boil slowly until soft. Put fruit and juice in bag, 
and hang in warm place to drip. To each pint of juice allow 1 
pound of sugar. Boil the juice from 15 to 20 minutes. Do not 
cover the juice ; add to it the sugar heated in the oven. Boil up. 
Strain into glasses. The jelly may be covered with waxed paper, 
brandied paper, or enough paraflfine melted to exclude the air. 

Currant Jelly 

Wash and stem the fruit, put in kettle, cook until soft, strain 
through a cloth; to each pint of juice add 1 pound of sugar; boil 
15 minutes, skim frequently, do not stir, put in glasses. 

Plum or Damson Jelly 

Six pounds of fruit, stick with a fork. Put in the kettle 2 cups 
of water, pour in the fruit, and simmer until soft, drain through 
a colander, then strain the juice through a cloth; to each pint 
of juice allow 1 pound of sugar; boil about 15 or 20 minutes, 
and put in glasses. 

Light Apple Jelly 

Pare and quarter the apples, and nearly cover with water; 
cover, boil until perfectly soft. Drain through a coarse bag, and 
hang in a warm place to drip, and to each pint of juice allow 
1 pound of sugar. Boil for 20 minutes. When red jelly is 
wanted do not pare the apples. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 163 

Crab Apple Jelly 

Wash and stem the apples, cut out any imperfections, halve 
and put in preserving kettle, and nearly cover with water, and 
let them boil until soft. Strain through a colander, then through 
a cloth, and allow 1 pound of sugar to every pint of juice, and 
flavor with lemon; boil 20 minutes, skim frequently, do not stir, 
and put in glasses. ^ 

Grape Jelly 

Heat the fruit slowly, mashing it the while, then aUow it to 
boil 20 minutes, strain without squeezing through linen cloth. 
Allow f pound of loaf sugar to each pint of juice, heat thoroughly 
and pour into glasses. 

Fox Grape Jelly 

Stem the grapes, put in the kettle with a little water, and when 
the skins burst, strain, and aUow 1 pound of sugar to a pint of 
juice; boU 20 to 30 minutes, and put in glasses. 

Preserved Peaches 

Peal the fruit, and for each pound of fruit allow 1 pound of 
sugar, put in preserving kettle in alternate layers. Set on the 
side of the stove to heat slowly; when sugar is melted, put over 
the heat and cook until done, and the sso-up is rich; watch con- 
stantly. 

Half Preserved Peaches 

1 pound sugar 1 cup water 

1 pound fruit 

Make a syrup; when boiling add the peaches, peeled, cook 
until they change color, pour into jars immediately and seal air- 
tight. 



164 THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 

Brandied Peaches 

Prepare peaches as for preserved peaches, and to every 4 
pounds of fruit allow 1 pint of best brandy. It must be added 
to the syrup just before filling the jars. 

Canned Peaches 

Peel, halve and remove the stones. Make a syrup of J pint 
of sugar to 1 pint of water. Heat until the sugar is melted. 
Put the peaches in, and let them scald well. Set the jars that 
have been thoroughly heated on a wet towel, put fruit in, fill to 
the very top with syrup, seal, when cold, wrap jars in paper, keep 
in a cool place. 

Pineapples 

One-half pound sugar to 1 pound fruit sliced, let it come to a 
thorough scald, and skim it and put in jars, which have been 
weU heated; fasten up immediately. 

Air-tight Pineapples 

Pare fruit carefully, removing the eyes. Scrape the pineapple 
from the core with a silver fork. Place in preserving kettle 
with sugar. Stir frequently, and when it has boiled, put in jars, 
previously heated with hot water, and seal immediately. 

Preserved Blackberries 

4 pounds sugar 4 pounds fruit 

Pick over the fruit, put the fruit in layers with the sugar, over 
night; in the morning drain off the juice, let it boil 15 minutes, 
add the fruit, and when it boils, fiU into the jars. Raspberries, 
strawberries and currants may be preserved in the same way. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES 165 

Preserved Damsons 

6 pounds fruit J cup water 

6 pounds sugar 

Wash the fruit and prick the skins with a coarse needle, put on 

the fire with the water, and when the skins burst, drain the juice, 

and allow 1 J pint of juice and 1^ pint of water to 6 pounds of 

fruit and 6 pounds of sugar. Boil until tender and fill into jars. 

Plums may be preserved in the same way. 

Preserved Huckleberries 

1 pound sugar J cup water 

1 quart berries 

Make a syrup of water and sugar, when boiling add berries; 
cook'5 minutes; seal in glasses. 

Preserved Crab Apple 

6 pounds sugar 1 pint water 

6 pounds fruit 

Make a syrup of the sugar and water, and when it is boiling, 

add the apples, and cook imtil tender. FiU into jars. 

Preserved Grapes 

3 pounds sugar 4 pounds fruit 

Pulp the grapes, simmer until soft; strain out the seeds; 
weigh the fruit skins and pulp, and boil 15 minutes. Seal up in 
glass jars. 

Preserved Peach Tomatoes 

4 pounds sugar 2 lemons 

1 pint water 4 pounds fruit 

Make a syrup of sugar and water, and when it has boiled, cook 
2 pounds of fruit, at a time (from which the skin has been 
peeled) until transparent. When the fruit has all been cooked, 



166 THE CHUBCH COOK BOOK 

boil the syrup until thick, add the juice and grated rind of 2 
lemons, reheat the fruit, and fill into jars. 

Quince Preserves 

Pare, quarter and core the quinces, saving the parings and 
cores. Put the quinces over the fire vsdth just enough water to 
cover them, and simmer until they are soft not broken. Take 
them out and spread on dishes. Add the parings, removing 
seeds and cores, to the water in which the quinces were boiled, 
stew, closely covered for an hour, strain through a jelly bag, and 
to a pint of this liquor, allow 1 pound of sugar; boil up and 
skim it, put in the fruit and boU J hour, and pour into jars. 

Watermelon Rind Preserves 

Peel the green rind from a melon and most of the pink, wash, 
weigh, put in a kettle and cover with cold water, set on the stove 
and bring slowly to a boil; simmer gently, until clear, lift from 
the water with a skimmer, add to the water as many povmds of 
sugar as you had fruit, and when the sugar has dissolved return 
the rind to the syrup, and cook until the rind is clear and red 
and the sjnnip rich, if the syrup boils away too much, before the 
rind is done, a little water may be added. If the flavor is liked, 
a lemon may be sliced and cooked with the preserves. 

Blackberry Jam 

1 pound sugar 1 pound fruit 

Mash the fruit, add the sugar, and stand in porcelain-lined kettle 
over night. In the morning, boU 20 minutes, no more. Seal in 
glasses. Strawberry, currant, raspberry jams may be made in 
the same way. 



PRESEEVES AND JELLIES 167 

Gingered Pears 

7 pounds fruit 1 pint water 

7 pounds sugar 3 lemons, juice and rind 

1 ounce green ginger root 

Soak the ginger in the water over night. Cut up the ginger, 

add it to the sugar and water in which the ginger was soaked, 

and let the sugar melt and add the pears, peeled and cut in small 

pieces, let it come to a boil, then simmer gently several hours, 

until the syrup is thick; it should be red when cooked. Seal up 

in jars. 

Orange Marmalade 

1 orange 1 grapefruit 

1 lemon 

Grind all in meat grinder, measure and put three times as 
much water and let stand until next day. The following day 
boil 10 minutes, add as much sugar as juice, cup for cup, and 
boil until it jellies about 1| hour.. This will make about 16 
glasses. 

Orange Marmalade 

Slice the oranges very thin, and cut in small pieces, taking out 
aU seeds. Measure, and allow 3 times as much cold water; let 
it stand 24 hours, then boil until tender. • Let this stand until 
next day, to each cup of fruit allow 1 cup of sugar and boil gently, 
until the syrup thickens, which will be about an hour. 



PICKLES 

Sweet Pickled Cantaloupe 

Prepare the fruit, pare, remove seeds, and slice and parboil 
with a pinch of alum, and to every seven pounds of fruit aUow: 

4 pounds sugar 1 ounce stick cinnamon 

1 pint vinegar 3 lemons sliced 

1 ounce cloves 

Make a syrup of vinegar, sugar and spices, tied in cheese-cloth, 
put in the fruit, as soon as it looks clear and can stick a straw 
through it, take it out; let syrup boU well, then return the fruit 
and heat thoroughly before putting in jars. Apples, peaches, 
sickle pears, plums, quinces and watermelon may be pickled in 
the same way. 

Spiced Cantaloupe 

Prepare the fruit, pare, remove seeds, cut in sections, and to 
every 7 pounds of fruit allow: 

4 pounds of sugar 1 teaspoonful ground cloves 

i ounce ginger root 2 teaspoonfuls ground cinnamon 

2 teaspoonfuls ground allspice J teaspoonful ground mace 
1 pint vinegar 

Mix the spices, ti^ them tightly in a bag, with enough room 
to sweU ; put sugar, vinegar, spices and ginger in porcelain-lined 
kettle over the fire; when boiling, add the cantaloupe; take 
from the fire, stand in a cool place over night. Next day drain 
off liquor, and bring again to the boiling point, pour over the 
cantaloupe, and again stand aside until the next day. Continue 
to do this for nine consecutive days, and on the last day boil the 
cantaloupe until tender. The liquor must be boiled down until 
a thick syrup, and just enough to cover the fruit. Apples, 



PICKLES 169 

peaches, cherries, plums, quinces, watermelon may be spiced in 
the same way. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches 

1 pint cider vinegar J ounce cinnamon 

10 pounds of peaches J teaspoonful of mace 

4 pounds of sugar 

Wash and rub the peaches, and stick them with cloves, about 
8 to each peach. Make a syrup of vinegar, sugar and spices. 
Let boil for 3 minutes. Put in as much fruit as this will cover, 
and boil gently untU tender, but not soft. Remove from kettle, 
and continue until all the fruit is used. Pour back from the jar 
all the syrup which has drained from the fruit and boil until it 
thickens. Pour over the fruit, and seal the jars. Fruit may be 
pared or not. 

Cherries, Bottled, for Winter Use 

FUl the bottles with good Morello cherries, without stems. 
Stand the bottles in water, and let it boU until the juice is up to 
the neck of the bottles; then take them out, cork them tight, 
and cover the corks with sealing wax. 

Sweet Pickled Cherries 

To pickle cherries with stalk and stone, cut the stalk to any 
length you like, prick with a needle 2 or 3 times. Boil 1 quart of 
sharp vinegar, with 3 pounds of sugar, skim it and pour while hot 
over 7 pounds of fruit, ounce each of cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice; tied in cheese-cloth bag. Let it remain 24 hours. The 
next day pour off the syrup, boil it again, and put back on the 
fruit, and stand another 24 hours, after which boil the whole, first 
scalding the syrup. When cold, put in jars, cover with the syrup, 
and seal. Damsons, plums and peaches may be pickled in the 
same way. 



170 THE CHUECH COOK BOOK 

Pickled Damsons 

7 pounds damsons, pricked thoroughly J ounce mace 

6 pounds granulated sugar J ounce cinnamon 

1 pint strong vinegar J ounce cloves 

Put in the kettle alternate layers of fruit and sugar, heat 
slowly to a boil, add vinegar and spices, put in a bag. Boil 5 
minutes, take out fruit with perforated skimmer, spread on 
dishes to cool. Boil syrup thick. Pack fruit in jars and pour 
syrup on, boiling hot, and seal. Put spices in a bag and leave in 
syrup until spiced enough to taste. 

Sweet Cucumber Pickle. 

Wipe the cucumbers well after taking out of brine; letting 
them soak a few days in fresh water, wipe dry, and cut in lengths 
or rings. Green them over the fire in weak vinegar, with grape 
leaves, as with other pickle; put a small piece of alum in while 
greening. Then take 7 pounds of cucumbers, 1 quart vinegar, 
2J pounds sugar, a little cinnamon, mace, pepper and plenty of 
celery seed. Boil the sjTnp, and pour over the cucumbers, 
three mornings in succession; the third and last time put the 
pickle in and let it boil a few minutes. With this receipt cucum- 
bers can be used any time during the year. When fresh cucum- 
bers are used, it is necessary to put them in weak salt water 24 
hoinrs before following the above. Black or red pepper can be 
used. 



MISCELLANEOUS 

Table of Weights and Measures. 

A cupful is an even cup. 

A spoonful is as rounding on top as the bowl underneath, liquids 
full to the brim. 
A tablespoonful = i ounce of water. 
25 drops = 1 teaspoonful. 

3 teaspoonfuls = 1 tablespoonful. 

2 teaspoonfuls = 1 dessertspoonful. 

4 tablespoonfuls = 1 wineglass. 

1 wineglass = i gill. 

2 gills = 1 tumbler or cup. 
1 tumbler or cup = i pint. 

1 quart sifted flour = 1 pound. 

5 cupfuls sifted flour = 1 pound. 

3 cupfuls sugar = 1 pound. 

4 cupfuls liquid = 1 quart. 

1 pint closely packed butter = 1 pound. 

1 tablespoonful butter = 1 oimce. 

2 tablespoonfuls coffee = 1 ounce. 
10 eggs average = 1 pound. 

Butter size of an egg = 2 tablespoonfuls or 2 ounces. 

1 tablespoonful of melted butter is measured after melting. 

1 tablespoonful of butter melted is measured before melting. 

Rules for Cooking Vegetables. 

Young peas, green corn, spinach, tomatoes, asparagus, brussels 
sprouts, 20 minutes. 
Bice, potatoes, macaroni, cauliflower, 20 to 30 minutes. 



172 THE CHURCH COOK BOOK 

Young turnips, young beets, young carrots, squash, 45 minutes 
to 1 hour. 

String beans, lima beans, oyster plant, 1 hour. 

Winter Vegetables. 

Potatoes, white, 30 minutes. 
Sweet potatoes, 45 minutes. 
Potatoes, baked, 1 hour. 
Turnips, 2 hours. 
Beets, 3i hours. 
Parsnips, 1 hour. 
Carrots, li hour. 

Time Required for Cooking Meats. 

Beef, rare, per pound, 10 to 12 minutes. 
Beef, well done, per pound, 12 to 15 minutes. 
Mutton, per pound, 15 minutes. 
Veal, 25 minutes. 

Poultry Roasted. 

Large fowl will take f hour. 

Small fowl will take 20 minutes, basting frequently with butter. 

A small turkey will take IJ hour. 

A goose will take 1 hour. 

Large turkeys or geese, H to 2 hours. Each of the last should 
have the breast papered. 

Partridges require 15 minutes; if large, 18 minutes. 

Pigeons, 20 minutes. 
- Ducks, 1 hour. 

Wild ducks, hot oven, i hour. 



MISCELLANEOUS 173 

Boiling. 

Mutton, vurkey and chicken, per pound, 15 to 20 minutes. 

Potted beef, per pound, 30 minutes. 

Ham, per lound, 20 minutes. 

Old fowl, per pound, 30 minutes. 

Large fish, oer pound, 12 to 15 minutes. 

Tripe, per pound, 3 to 5 hours. 

Broiling. 

Steak, 1 inch thick, 8 to 10 minutes. 
Steak, li inch thick, 10 to 15 minutes. 
Mutton chops, 8 to 12 minutes. 
Spring chicken, 20 to 25 minutes. 
Squabs, 10 to 15 minutes. 
Shad, 15 to 25 minutes. 
Small fish, 5 to 10 minutes. 



CLASSIFIED ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



BEVERA.GES 

Blackberry cordial 159 

Cherryade 156 

Chocolate 156 

Claret cup 160 

Cocoa 156 

Coffee 155 

drip .' 155 

Egg nogg 157 

Fruit punch 160 

Ginger beer 158 

Grape juice 160 

Lemonade 157 

e^ 157 

Mint julep 160 

Orangeade 156 

Punch 159 

Raspberry i^rub 158 

vinegar 158 

Sherbet, patent gas 159 

Tea 155 

flaxseed 159 

Prussian 155 

Water, apple, rhubarb, lemonade 157 

rice 161 

toast 161 

Bhead 

Boston brown 76 

com 86 

graham 75 

oatmeal 76 

rice corn 87 

rye 76 

spoon batter 87 

twentieth century 74 

white 73 

Biscuit, baking powder 80 

Maryland 79 

soda 80 

Breakfast gems 81 

Buns, cinnamon 78 

currant 79 



Cakes, buckwheat. 84 

caramel syrup I'or griddle 85 

cornmeal griddle 84 

(sour milk]^ 85 

griddle 84 

hoe / 86 

pan 85 

Com pone 86 

Croutons 88 

Dried bread crumbs 88 

Fritters, banana 86 

batter 85 

rice 85 

MuflSns 81 

English 82 

cornmeal 83 

com 83 

hominy 82 

Pie crust 87 

Popovers 81 

Rolls, French 78 

Parker house 77 

potato 77 

potato egg 7.6 

white 78 

Sally Lunn 80 

Sweet rusk 79 

Toast, cream 89 

dry 88 

milk 89 

water 88 

white or cream sauce for 88 

Waffles 83 

rice 83 

Yeast, home made 74 

Butter and mile 

Baked crackers witli cheese 95 

Butter 93 

balls : 93 

Cheese croquettes 95 

straws 96 

Creamed cheese on toast 96 



INDEX 



175 



Butter and milk — continued 

' Devonshire cream 93 

Milk 94 

pasteurized 94 

Sour milk cheese 94 

Welsh rarebit 96 



Cakes 

angle'sfood 128 

black chocolate 127 

fruit 124 

boiled sugar sponge 129 

buttercup 134 

chocolate 127 

cream 128 

charlotte 130 

coooanut 126 

election 125 

French 126 

fruit 124 

ginger 136 

pound 127 

layer 126 

pound 126 

simple rules for baking 123 

snow 128 

soft ginger 136 

spice 131 

charlotte 131 

sponge 129 

batter for layer 129 

sugar 138 

Bread, ginger 128 

raisin 125 

cookies, chocolate 130 

chocolate and nut 137 

maple sugar. 138 

peanut 137 

Crisps 136 

Crullers 135 

Crybabies 135 

Doughnuts 135 

FiUing, almond cream 133 

caramel 133 

chocolate 133 

cream 131,132 

maple sugar 134 

nut 133 



Filling, orange 132 

or lemon 133 

vanilla 132 

Icing, caramel 131 

boiled 132 

chocolate. . . ". 133 

cinnamon 132 

Jelly cake roll 129 

Jumbles 135 

Kisses 134 

chocolate 134 

Nut sticks , 138 

Oatmeal macaroons 138 

Rocks 135 

Sponge drops 130 

Tarts, sand 137 

Wafers, chocolate 136 

Candy 

candy 146 

barley 139 

chocolate 143 

cream 141 

horehound 140 

maple sugar with nuts 142 

molasses 142 

Eeanut 140 
utter scotch 143 

white cream 146 

caramels 144 

nut 145 

pulled 144 

chocolate mints 141 

creams 146 

walnut 142 

Cocoanut drops 140 

Cream candy loaf 145 

dates 142 

Fudge 145 

maple 145 

Kisses 143 

Kougat 147 

French 146 

Nut dates 142 

Peppermint drops 143 

Pinoche. . . .-. 142 

Syrup for snowballs 140 

Taffy, butter 141 

everton 147 



176 



INDEX 



Cereals] 

Commeal, molded 72 

Directions for making mush and 

gruels 70 

Oatmeal coarse 71 

gruelNo. 1 71 

No.2 71 

Rolled oats or rolled wheat 71 

COOKINa FRUITS 

Apples, baked 102 

coddled 101 

steamed 101 

Bananas, baked 102 

Cranberry sauce 103 

Stewed evaporated apricots, 

peaches and apples 102 

Prunes, spiced 103 

stewed 101 

Rhubarb, stewed 103 

Desserts 

Apple dumpling 109 

Bird's nest 118 

Charlotte russe Ill 

Cream, Bavarian 120 

Spanish 120 

strawberry 121 

Custard, baked or steamed 119 

boiled 118 

chocolate 119 

rennet or junket 119 

Flummery 118 

Fruit sago 112 

Gordon pie crust 115 

Meringue, rice 114 

Mince meat 116 

Mock charlotte Ill 

Peach cobbler 110 

mousse 120 

Pie, chocolate 116 

cocoanut 117 

Florida orange 116 

lemon No. 1 116 

No.2 117 

mince, without meat 115 

pumpkin 118 

rhubarb 117 



Pie, sweet potato custard 117 

Puffs, cream 110 

nun's 107 

Pudding, almond 114 

apple, tapioca or sago 105 

bread 106 

carrot 104 

chocolate cream 113 

Christmas plum 104 

cocoanut 106 

cornstarch 113 

cottage 107 

cream rice 113 

crust 106 

fig 105 

huckleberry 105 

molasses 114 

prune 112 

queen 104 

rice chocolate 115 

roly-poly 107 

Sauce, egg 109 

hard 108 

lemon 109 

maple syrup pudding 109 

nogg 108 

nutmeg 108 

plain 108 

Short cake, strawberry 109 

Soufiag, almond 122 

omelet 121 

prune 122 

Sponge, Washington 112 

Trifle 121 

netherwood 120 

Eggs 

and peppers 100 

creamy. , 98 

f olden rod 98 
ard cooked 97 

poached 97 

scrambled 99 

soft cooked 97 

steamed 98 

omelet, cheese 99 

com 99 

ham 99 

Timbaleofham 100 



INDEX 



177 



Fish 

broiled 17 

butter dressing for 17 

creamed 15 

cod 18 

hash 16 

in aspic 16 

sauce for 18 

for boiled 15 

scalloped 16 

Codfish balls 18 

Crabs, deviled 19 

soft shell 19 

Lobster k la Newberg 18 

cutlets 18 

Oyster cocktail 22 

p^t^s 20 

Oysters broiled 20 

brown sauce 21 

deviled 22 

fried 21 

pie 22 

scalloped 20 

spiced 21 

stewed 20 

Rock, to boil 15 

Salmon croquettes 19 

loaf 17 

Sauce a. la tartare 19 

horseradish 23 

white 15 

Shad, baked 16 

Terrapin 22 

Fbebzing 

Cafdfrapl 151 

Chocolate sauce 154 

Compote of oranges 153 

frozen pudding with a 153 

Directions for freezing 148 

Frozen cherries 151 

custard 150 

pudding 152 

Ice, orange 152 

pineapple 152 

Ice cream, bisque '. . . . . 150 

chocolate 151 

coffee 151 

for one 149 

peach 150 



Ice cream, Philadelphia 149 

pineapple 151 

plain vanilla 150 

strawberry 150 

tuttifrutti 151 

vanilla or lemon 150 

maple mousse 154 

Plain vanilla parfait 154 

Sherbet, lemon 152 

milk 149 

Vanilla cream and coffee 151 

Water ice, currant 152 

Meats 

Beefsteak, broiled 29 

miushroom sauce 30 

smothered in onions 30 

stuffed 29 

Beef juice 26 

frizzled 31 

with scrambled eggs 31 

stew 28 

Boiling 24 

Broiling 25 

Brains, scrambled 41 

Brown gravy 27 

Calf's foot jelly 40 

Calves liver and bacon 34 

Chops, pan broiled 36 

Crust for meat pies 37 

Curry of lamb 36 

Dumplings for stews 29 

French hash (cottage pie) 33 

Fricassee cold meat 32 

Gravy 27 

formutton 39 

Hamburg steak 29 

Hash 33 

Kidney 31 ' 

Liver saut6 34 

Mattre d'h6tel butter 29 

Minced meat on toast 32 

Mint jelly .■ 38 

sauce 39 

Mock duck 30 

Mutton reheated 36 

Pan broiling 26 

Pig'sfeet, soused 40 

Pot roast 27 

Roasting 24 



178 



INDEX 



Meats — continued 

Roast beef 27 

mutton 35 

Sauce for veal or lamb stew 35 

white 37 

Sausage, fresh 40 

smoked 40 

Scrapple 40 

Shoulder of lamb, to bake 36 

Stewed kidney 31 

Stewing 25 

Sweetbreads 32 

broiled 32 

Tomato jelly 39 

sauce 39 

Vealcutlet 34 

loaf 34 

or lamb stew 35 

Warm-over mutton 37 

Yorkshire pudding 37 

MiSCEtliANBOTTS 

Boiling 173 

Broiling 173 

Poultry roasted 172 

Rules for cooking vegetables 171 

Table of weights and measures ... 171 
Time required for cooking meats. 172 
Winter vegetables 171 

Pickles 

Cantaloupe, spiced 168 

sweet pickled 168 

Cherries, bottled, for winter use . . 169 

sweet pickled 169 

Damsons, pickled 170 

Peaches, sweet pickled 169 

Sweet cucumber pickle 170 

Poultry and Game 

Brown gravy 44 

Chicken croquettes 45 

cream gravy for fried 42 

fricasseed 43 

fried 42 

panned 43 

p4t4s 45 

pilaff of 45 

molded 46 



Chicken, smothered spring 42 

stewed 42 

Oyster stuffing for turkey 44 

Partridges, broiled 46 

Pigeons, stewed 46 

Raisin and nut stuffing for poul- 
try 44 

Reedbirds 47 

Roast turkey or chicken 43 

Rabbits, fried 47 

stewed 46 

Scalloped chicken or turkey 45 

Preserves and jellies 

Blackberry jam 166 

Jelly, crab apple 163 

currant. 162 

directions for making 162 

fox grape 163 

grape 163 

light apple 162 

pmm or damson 162 

Peaches, brandied 164 

canned 164 

half preserved 163 

Pears, gingered 167 

Orange marmalade 167 

Pineapples 164 

air-tight 164 

Preserved blackberries 164 

crab apples 165 

damsons 165 

grapes 165 

hucldeberries 165 

peaches 163 

peach tomatoes 165 

quince 166 

water melon rind 166 

Salads 

& la Heney 69 

apple and nut 69 

asparagus 69 

chicken 67 

cucumber 69 

egg and beet 69 

fish 68 

fruit 66 

grape fruit 67 

lobster. 66 



INDEX 



179 



SAiiAsa — continued 

pineapple 67 

potato 68 

salmon 66 

shrimp 66 

string Dean 69 

tomato 68 

water lily 64 

walnut 66 

Dressing, cooked salad 63 

chicken salad 65 

cream 64 

iVench 64 

noiayonnaise 65 

French mustard 65 

Sauce, egg 67 

tartare 67 

Shredded cabbage or cold slaw ... 64 

Tomato aspic 68 

Sandwiches 

apple 92 

cheese 90 

chicken or ham 91 

club 91 

cucumber 91 

egg 90 

fig 92 

fillingfor 90 

lettuce or cress 91 

nut 90 

nut and cheese 90 

nut andfruit 91 

olive 92 

salted almonds 92 

peanuts 92 

sardine 91 

Soups 

baked bean 8 

bean 8 

beefstockfor 13 

bouillon 11 

caramel 11 

celery, cream of 12 

chicken 9 

clam '..... 9 

com 12 

crab 10 



Soup, duchess 13 

dumplings 14 

eggs for terrapin or turtle 10 

eggnoodlesfor 9 

gumbo 9 

fobster, bisque of 10 

okra 13 

oyster 11 

pepper pot 13 

potato 8, 11 

split pea 7 

terrapin 10 

tomato bisque 12 

Vegetables 

Asparagus 60 

Baked macaroni 56 

Beans, Boston baked 62 

lima 59 

Boiled carrots 60 

onions 61 

turnips 61 

Brussels sprouts 58 

Cabbage, boiled 58 

lady's 68 

creamed 58 

Cauliflower 59 

Celery, stewed 59 

Corn on the cob 56 

pudding 57 

stewed 56 

Cucumbers, fried 69 

Eggplant 60 

stuffed 60 

General rules for cooking vege- 
tables 48 

Hominy 61 

pudding 62 

Lazania 56 

Macaroni with cheese and toma- 
toes 55 

Oyster plant 60 

Parsnips 61 

Peas, green 59 

Peppers, stuffed 57 

baked and corn 57 

com with 57 

Potatoes 49 

baked 60 

boiled 49 



180 



INDEX 



Vegetables — Continued 

Potato cakes 51 

Potatoes, creamed No. 1 50 

No.2 51 

with cheese 51 

croquettes 52 

ma^ed 50 

riced 50 

stuffed 61 

Rice and beans 53 

croquettes. '. 64 

fried 64 

how to boil 63 

Spanish 63 



Rice, to wash 53 

with milk 54 

Sauce, white 49 

Scalloped dishes 49 

onions 61 

Seasoning 48 

Spinach 69 

Succotash 67 

Sweet potato croquettes 62 

baked pur«5e 62 

Tomatoes, fried 55 

scalloped 55 

stewed 54 

stuffed 66 



.^- 



