♦ 



I 



OOKING FORTW 



"Mm., 







FROM THE LIBRARY OF 

James B. Herndon, Jr. 



PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
Administration 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 



TX 7i5.H§|V"^""'"™««V Library 

^°iiiiiim™I'ii5KifiiII'^"''''°°'* ^°' y°""3 hou 




3 1924 000 414 924 




The original of tliis book is in 
tlie Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000414924 



Cooking for Two 




Breakfast Tadli:: Laid for Two. 




Di;:n£R Table Laid for Two. 



COOKING FOR TWO 

A HANDBOOK 
FOR YOUNG HOUSEKEEPERS 



By 

JANET MACKENZIE HILI 

Author of " Salads, Sandwiches, and Chafing Disk Dainties,'' 
" The Up-to-Date Waitress;' etc. 



ILLUSTRATED 



LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 
1909 



Copyright, jgog, 
By Janet Mackenzie Hili,. 



All rights reserved 



Published, May, 1909. 



Electrotyped and Printed at 
THE COLONIAL PRESS: 
C. H.Simonds CS, Co., Boston, U.S.A. 



Foreword 

" The best things are nearest. . . . Then do not 
grasp at the stars, but do life's plain, common work 
as it comes, certain that daily duties and daily bread 
are the sweetest things of life." 



Contents 



PAGE 



I. A Talk on Food i 

II. The Gas Range, Tables of Measures, Uten- 
sils, Supplies, etc 14 

III. Water, Making of Tea, Coffee, etc. . . 27 

IV. Cooking of True Proteids, Tissue Builders, 

Milk and Cheese 39 

V. Cooking of True Proteids Continued: Eggs 56 

VI. Cooking of True Proteids Continued: Fish . • 73 

VII. Cooking of True Proteids Continued: Meat 93 

VIII. Left-Overs of Meat, Fish, etc 122 

IX. Gelatinous Soups and Jellies. Proteid 

Sparers , . . . 131 

X. Introducing the Cooking of Carbohydrates, 

the True Heat and Work Foods . . 141 

XI. Carbohydrates (Work Foods) Continued . 154 
XII. Introducing The Great Fuel Foods: Fats 

(Cream, Butter, Olive Oil and Salads) . 186 

XIII. Foods Supplying Mineral Salts and Organic 

Acids, More Particularly Fruit . . 212 

XIV. Sugar: a Great Source of Heat and Energy 229 
XV. Preservation of Fruit and Vegetables by 

Canning, etc 252 

XVI. Flour Mixtures: Quick Breads .... 272 
XVII. Flour Mixtures Continued: Bread and 

Other Yeast Mixtures 287 



viii Contents 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XVIII. Flour Mixtures Continued : Pastry and Pies 309 

XIX. Flour Mixtures Continued: Cake . . . 322 

XX. Other Sweet Dishes • 342 

A Ssrmonet 373 

Menus for Each Month in the Year . . 379 

Index 397 



List of Illustrations 



Breakfast Table Laid for Two 
Dinner Table Laid for Two 



Frontispiece 

FACING PAGE 



Useful Utensils in Housekeeping for Two .... 8 

Improvised and Real Double Boilers 8 

Utensils for Measuring 8 

Removing Ice Cream from Mold g 

Pastry Bag with Tubes g 

Sieve Frame with Adjustable Plates of Different Mesh . 9 

Frying Croquettes 26 

Zinc Covered Table on Casters. Unharmed by Hot Dishes 26 

Making Tea with Tea Ball .27 

Why is a Coffee Pot made with the Nozzle near the Top 

and a Teapot with the Nozzle near the Bottom? . . 27 
Hot Toasted Wafers with Cream Cheese and Slice of 

Stuffed Olive 44 

Cheese Toast with Bacon 44 

Cheese Ramequins 44 

Creamed Macaroni au Gratin 45 

Macaroni Croquettes ... .... 45 

Macaroni Baked with Milk and Cheese .... 45 

Poaching Eggs 62 

Poached Eggs with Tomatoes and Bacon . . . . 62 

Omelet Pans . . 62 

Fillets of Black Bass with Bread Dressing. Cucumber 

Salad 80 

Fresh Codfish, Broiled 80 

Fresh Fish en Casserole 80 

Halibut Steak . . 81 

Rolled Fillets of Black Bass 81 

Truffled Fish Mousse . 81 

Lamb Chops, Mashed Potatoes 98 



X List of Illustrations 

FACING PAGE 

Lamb Chops, Planked 98 

Sirloin Steak en Casserole, Rathskeller Style ... 98 

Two Sets of Sweetbreads 99 

Boiled Lamb for Two, Turnip and Carrot .... 99 

Scrag End and Breast of Lamb cut for Small Family . 99 

Chicken Breast, Cooked for Two 116 

Roast Chicken, Garnish of Cranberry Branches . . . 116 

Chicken Pie for Two 116 

Chicken in Potato Patty Cases 134 

Boston Baked Beans on Toast. Bacon Rolls . . . 134 

Rizzoletti, "Left-Over" Dish 134 

Ham-and-Macaroni Timbales, for Two . . -.135 

Cottage Pie i35 

Veal Pot Pie, Baked Dumplings . . . ... .135 

Chopped Chicken Molded with Aspic 152 

Strainer, Cloth and Colander, Ready to Strain Liquid As- 
pic or Consomme 152 

Hard Cooked Eggs Molded in Aspic 152 

One Service of Cream of Corn Soup 153 

Utensils needed to make Purees for Cream Soup . . 153 

Flaky Pastry Croutons for Soup 153 

Cold Baked Bean Sandwich, Club Style . . . 170 

Com Fritters with Creamed Chicken 17a 

Mashed Potato . . . . ... 170 

Lima Beans Baked with Salt Pork .... 171 

Frying Saratoga Potatoes 171 

Baked Potatoes 171 

German Apple Cup 188 

Beets Stuffed with Cabbage-and-Nut Salad . . . 188 

How to Beat Cream 188 

Potato Salad, French Style 189 

Egg Salad for Two . i8g 

Astoria Salad . . 206 

Celery-and-Apple Salad . . 206 

Asparagus Salad 206 

Baked Bananas, Sultana Sauce 224 

Macedoine of Midwinter Fruit 224 

Grapefruit 224 

Grapefruit Jelly 225 



List of Illustrations xi 

FACING PAGE 

Apple, Pralinee 225 

Sliced Figs in Sherry Wine Jelly 225 

Choice Caramels Wrapped in Paper 242 

Chocolate Bon Bons 242 

Divinity Fudge or Spanish Nougat .... 242 

Dipping Oysterettes, Nuts, etc., in " Dot " Chocolate . . 243 

Fruit Fudge 243 

Making Impressions in Starch to Mold Fondant . . 243 

Fruit Cooked in the Jars 26a 

Apple and Raspberry Jelly 260 

Canned String Beans 260 

Pop-Overs 261 

Baking Powder Biscuit 261 

Fruit-and-Nut Rolls 261 

Olive Sandwiches 278 

Shaping Parker House Rolls 278 

Making Noisette Sandwiches 278 

Bread and Coffee Cake made with One Yeast Cake . . 279 

Shaping Lady Finger Rolls 279 

Ready to Make Bread 279 

One Loaf of Bread and of Rolls made with One Yeast 

Cake . . 296 

Graham Bread made without Kneading .... 296 

One Loaf of Bread and Parker House Rolls, Baked . . 296 

Bread Sticks, tied with Yellow Ribbon 297 

Lady Finger Rolls 297 

Preparing the Sponge for Kaiser Rolls .... 297 

Peach Tarts 314 

Apple Tarts 314 

Apple Pie with Meringue 314 

Pineapple Tarts . . 315 

Custard Pie 315 

Strawberry Tarts, St. Honore Style . . . .315 
Loaf of Biscuit d'fipernay. Tea Pretzels .... 332 
Roxbury Cakes, Biscuits d'fipernay. Strawberry Pre- 
serves Between 332 

White Cake, cut in Diamonds 332 

Plain Ginger Cakes 333 

Tiny Cream Cakes 333 



Xll 



List of Illustrations 



Shaping Tea Pretzels 

Steamed Custard 

Charlotte Russe for Two 

Chocolate Custard with Whipped Cream 

Custard Renversee with Almonds . 

Orange Marmalade Bavariose 

Canned Pear Meringues 

Vanilla and Strawberry Ice Cream in One 

Ginger Bavarian Cream 

Peach Ice Cream for Two 

Strawberry-and-JMarshmallow Dessert . 

Golden Parfait with Fruit 

Banana Parfait . . . . ■• . 



Glass 



FACING PAGE 

333 
350 
3S0 
350 
351 
351 
351 
368 
368 
368 
369 
369 
369 



Cooking for Two 

CHAPTER I 

A TALK ON FOOD 

In the morning you work about the house, putting 
it in order, or you work in the garden with your 
flowers, or you go to market. Your husband attends 
to his work out-of-doors or in the office, and when 
mid-day is reached neither of you feel willing to do 
any more work, until you have eaten your mid-day 
meal. Your energy and motive power are gone. The 
movements you have made, not only those you have 
made of your own accord in working about the house, 
but also those made involuntarily by your heart in 
beating, your lungs in breathing, and your brain in 
thinking, have wasted your stock of energy and worn 
away tissues of flesh, blood and bones. This waste 
must be renewed at once, or you will remain faint and 
inactive; or, if the renewal be deferred for days, you 
will cease to live. More than this, if you have not 
attained your full normal growth, there must be a 
constant supply of material for this purpose. The 
material to renew energy and tissues and supply new 

1 



2 Cooking for Two 

growth comes from the food that is eaten. Not all 
the articles that we use as food contain elements for 
growth and repair of tissues ; from this fact you can 
see that, if those whom you send from your tables 
each day have not been supplied with the proper 
articles of food, you can not expect them to retain 
health or have the energy and courage to do their 
work in the world. An old saying expresses this in 
concise form, which you can easily remember; it is: 
" The stomach is the seat of courage." 



EXPERIENCE THE FIRST TEACHER REGARDING 

FOOD 

We use for food substances that are found in the 
world around us. How the earliest men and women 
learned what substances would best satisfy hunger 
and build strong bodies we have no means of know- 
ing. Experience is a dear teacher, but, doubtless, 
outside of natural instinct, she was the first teacher in 
the primitive world. Poisonous berries, though bright 
and attractive in color, are avoided by birds and four- 
footed animals by instinct. The instincts of early 
man, as far as everything that pertained to the pres- 
ervation of life was concerned, must have been very 
acute. At the present time the discovery of a really 
new article of food is of such rare occurrence that 
we are justified in saying there are none such to be 
discovered. Of course there may be foods new to us, 
but some one else has already known and used them. 



Cooking for Two 3 

WATER, AIR, CARBON AND COMBUSTION 

Water and air are vital necessities to us, but they 
are not accounted as food, as they cannot stay hunger, 
build tissues or supply heat or energy; still food is of 
no value to us without them, and, in composition with 
other compounds, they enter into all food. Carbon 
is another compound that occurs in food and in almost 
all matter in the world around us. When a crust of 
bread is toasted until it is charred throughout, we 
know it as carbon. So also is the smoke left upon the 
lamp chimney, when the wick of a lamp is turned 
too high. The charred remains of all substances are 
carbon. 

Air is composed of two invisible gases, oxygen and 
nitrogen; when carbon is ignited, the oxygen from 
the air unites with it rapidly, giving off light and heat, 
and we have what is called combustion, burning or a 
fire. 

CARBON DIOXIDE A PRODUCT OF COMBUSTION 
BOTH OUTSIDE OF THE BODY AND IN IT 

Pour a little lime-water into a glass jar, shake the 
jar and note there is no change in the appearance of 
the lime-water. Pour out the lime-water, rinse the 
jar, dry it and set into it a lighted candle, cover the 
top of the jar with a pane of glass and note what 
happens. The candle burns for a few moments, then, 
when there is no more oxygen to unite with the carbon 
of the candle, combustion ceases. Remove the candle, 
pour in a little lime-water and shake the jar — the 



4 Cooking for Two 

lime-water becomes cloudy. Now put a glass tube 
into a bottle containing lime-water, letting one open- 
ing come below the water, put the other end of the 
tube into the mouth and exhale from the lungs, letting 
the air pass into the tube ; now shake the jar and note 
that the lime-water becomes cloudy. 

When lime-water takes on a cloudy appearance, we 
know that it contains carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide 
is a product of combustion. The carbon dioxide ex- 
haled from the lungs was formed in the body. Oxy- 
gen taken in through the lungs unites with the carbon 
in the food, thus producing carbon dioxide and, inci- 
dentally, heat to warm the body. The process of 
combustion in this case is, probably, almost synony- 
mous with the process of digestion. Thus the process 
of digestion, or we might say of living, is largely 
dependent upon our breathing in a full supply of air, 
pregnant with oxygen. 

NITROGEN, ITS ABUNDANCE IN THE BODY AND 
SOURCE OF SUPPLY 

Nitrogen is the other element of which air is com- 
posed. Every active tissue in plant and animal con- 
tains nitrogen. Brain, muscle, bone, even the digest- 
ive juices and other bodily secretions are all largely 
made up of nitrogen. If nitrogen be withheld from 
the body, the body dies, though for a time the vital 
organs will draw upon the nitrogen stored in the 
various tissues of the system and the body will carry 
on its work by feeding upon itself. But it is impos- 



Cooking for Two 5 

sible for the body to take its supply of nitrogen, first 
hand, as it were, from the air, and though air is four- 
fifths nitrogen, all of this element is returned to the 
air, when the oxygen in composition has been taken 
in by the lungs. Nitrogen must be supplied in com- 
position with other elements in food. The articles 
we use as food are complex in their composition. 



ELEMENTS FOUND IN OUR FOOD 

Our food, then, must contain the elements that 
make up the body; it must contain carbon, oxygen, 
nitrogen, hydrogen, iron, sulphur, and all the minor 
elements that go to make up the body; these exist 
in articles of food not as simple elements but as com- 
pounds, to which, partly on account of their repetition 
in this and that article of food, we give the name of 
proximate food compounds or principles. 

PROXIMATE OR FOOD PRINCIPLES 

The chief of these proximate principles are classi- 
fied as water, mineral matter, proteids, fats and carbo- 
hydrates. The body of a man of average weight is 
said to contain io8 pounds of water, ri pounds of 
mineral matter, 29.75 pounds of proteid, 5 pounds 
of fat and .25 of a pound of carbohydrates. From 
this we can judge somewhat of the quantity of the 
different principles to be supplied in the food; but, 
as we shall see later on, the proportion of the different 



6 Cooking for Two 

principles needed depends on still other conditions 
than the quantity in the body. 

The most important of these principles are the pro- 
teids, because they are the only ones that can supply 
the nitrogen so needful in tissue building and repair- 
ing; proteid may also furnish heat and energy, but 
proteid is represented chiefly in our most expensive 
foods ; and, as fats and carbohydrates are less ex- 
pensive and even better than proteid as a source of 
heat and energy, it were the part of wisdom to reserve 
proteid food to build tissue and choose fats and car- 
bohydrates to supply the body with its heat and 
energy. Indeed, foods abounding in these two latter 
principles are often called proteid sparers and, also, 
fuel foods. Thus, if the carbohydrates are to act as 
fuel foods, furnishing us with heat and energy, we can 
see that we must supply them in the food in greater 
proportion than would be indicated by the quantity 
present in the body as shown above. 

Now we wish to look more closely at these proxi- 
mate principles. Let us begin with the most Impor- 
tant and the most expensive, the protelds. 

PROTEIDS 

There are five important substances and quite a 
number of less important ones that we group under 
the term protelds. These substances are thus grouped, 
because each and every one of them has a similar 
chemical composition and thus performs the same 
function in the body. They contain nitrogen, an ele- 



Cooking for Two 7 

ment found in no other food principle, carbon, hydro- 
gen, oxygen, sulphur, and are tissue builders. These 
five proteids have marked physical characteristics 
which we can note in our kitchens, if we do not have 
a laboratory in which to study their chemical compo- 
sition. Carefully try the following experiments and 
you will, in the future, have a fairly good understand- 
ing of what is meant by the term proteid. 

PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF PROTEIDS 

Gradually stir two tablespoonfuls of water into 
half a cup of flour, to form a dough; knead the dough 
until it becomes smooth and elastic, then work it (in 
the hands or on a sieve) under a faucet of running 
water until the water, running off from the dough, 
loses its milky appearance. The gray substance left 
in your hands you will find tenacious and elastic ; you 
can stretch and fold it as you would molasses candy 
or rubber bands. This elastic mass is gluten, one of 
the five representative proteids. 

Add one or two tablespoonfuls of vinegar to half 
a cup of milk and let the whole become slightly warm ; 
drain off the whey and wash the curd remaining ; this 
curd is elastic and tenacious; it is casein, a second 
representative proteid. The white of an egg, which 
is largely albumin, another proteid, is also elastic and 
tenacious. The pulp of lean meat, scraped from the 
white connective tissues, represents the chief proteid 
In meat, by name myosin. The fifth of the group Is 
legumin, the proteid found in the pulse family (peas, 



8 Cooking for Two 

beans, lentils, etc.) When you come to have experi- 
ence in cooking these five substances, you will learn 
that all are toughened by a high degree of heat. All 
of them when dried may be reduced to a similar, fine, 
powdery state. 

GELATINOIDS 
When we first spoke of proteids, we referred to a 
number that were of less importance than the five true 
proteids, which we have now referred to under the 
names gluten, casein, albumin, myosin and legumin; 
these others are set in a class by themselves, for, 
though they contain nitrogen, they can not alone 
supply the nitrogen needed by the body — they lack 
something present in the true proteids, though they 
may replace a part of the proteid in the diet. The 
best known of these substances is gelatine; others are 
ossein of which bone is largely composed, heratin, 
present in the hair and in the horns and hoofs of ani- 
mals, and collagen, which forms the greater part of 
the connective tissue of meat. All of these are not 
toughened by boiling, but are changed into gelatine. 
These are the gelatinolds. 

EXTRACTIVES 

In meat there are nitrogenous substances that give 
it flavor; we notice these prominently In beef-tea and 
clear soup ; these are called extractives ; they are not 
true foods, inasmuch as they do not build tissue or 
supply heat, but they influence digestion. 




Useful Utensils in Housekeeping for Two. — Page 30. 




Improvised and Real Double Boilers. — Pag^ 21. 




Utensils for Measuring. — Page 23. 




l\.E>io\'iNG Ice Cream from AIold. — Page 7,04. 




Pastkv 1!ag with Tubes. — Pag 




Sieve Frame with Adjusjable Plates of Different ■\TEsn for sift- 
ing Sugar, Purees and P>kead Criimbs. — Page 23. 



Cooking for Two 9 

PROTEIN 

The proteids, gelatinoids and extractives are classed 
together under the name protein. 

CARBOHYDRATES 

A carbohydrate is composed of the elements, car- 
bon, hydrogen and oxygen, the last two in the propor- 
tion in which they are found in water. The principal 
carbohydrates may be arranged in three groups as 
below. The letters C H O stand for the three ele- 
ments of which this principle is composed ; the figures 
indicate the number of atoms of the different elements 
that enter in combination, in each group. 



Starch Group 


Cane Sugar Group 


Grape Sugar Group 


Ce H,o O3 


C,3 Has 0,1 


Q H„ 0. 


Starch 


Cane Sugar 


Grape Sugar 


Dextrin 


Malt Sugar 


Fruit Sugar 


Cellulose 


Milk Sugar 




Gums 






Glycogen 







STARCH 

You are already familiar with starch, having 
washed it away from the gluten in the dough you 
made of flour and water. Starch is found only in the 
vegetable kingdom. It is produced by all green plants 
and stored, in varying proportions, as microscopic, 
grains, throughout the plant structure. 

In the laboratory, iodine is the test for starch; 
pour a few drops of iodine, diluted with water, into 



10 Cooking for Two 

half a cup of laundry starch, cooked and cooled for 
use, and the starch will assume a deep blue color. Or 
you may grind a vegetable substance in a mortar with 
a little warm water, add a drop of iodine solution, 
and note the effect. What is true in these cases is true 
of all starch mixtures and is thus tested. But in your 
kitchen you will recognize starch by its thickening 
when cooked. When you come to cook rice, tapioca, 
the breakfast cereals, etc., in liquid, you will note the 
thickening of the liquid and come to know that it 
shows the presence of starch. 



DEXTRIN, CELLULOSE, GLYCOGEN, ETC. 

Starch ultimately becomes sugar. In an interme- 
diate state it is in the form of dextrin. The composi- 
tion of dextrin and starch is the same, as can be seen 
by looking at the starch group, but that dextrin is not 
starch can be determined by the use of iodine. In 
cookery starch becomes dextrin on being subjected to 
high heat, as in the crust of bread. This change is 
also brought about by the digestive ferments. 

The framework of plants and vegetables, or the 
cellular structure that enfolds the starch grains, is 
cellulose. From a nutritive point of view cellulose 
cannot be considered valuable; much, however, de- 
pends upon the tenderness to which it can be reduced 
by cooking; but it gives bulk, a necessary item in 
food. Gums are largely found in the juices of plants. 
Not all the carbohydrate principle, taken as food, 



Cooking for Two 11 

enters at once into the circulation ; a part is stored in 
the liver, as glycogen, and may be drawn upon as 
needed. 

Use of Starch. Starch when digested furnishes 
energy, which is expended as work or as heat, or it 
is stored between the tissues as fat. As it builds no 
tissue, it cannot be used alone as food, but needs be 
combined with proteid. 

SUGAR 

The difference between starch and sugar is merely 
a difference in the proportions of the same elements, 
these being repeated indefinitely in composition. In 
the cane and grape sugar groups we refer to five 
varieties of sugar; these are made up of the same 
kind of atoms and, in the case of grape and fruit 
sugar, of the same number of atoms, but the atoms 
in each case are grouped differently. This difference 
in the grouping of the atoms results in sugars of 
different properties, which, when partaken of as food, 
differ in digestibility. 

Sources of Sugar. Sugar is found in a large num- 
ber of vegetable juices; it is in the stems and roots 
of all the grasses and in many of the vegetables served 
on our tables, as the carrot, parsnip, turnip, beet and 
sweet potato. It is found in the sap of the sugar 
maple, in most of the sweet fruits, as bananas, dates 
and figs, in the nectar of flowers, which is stored by 
bees as honey, and in the milk of certain animals. 
The sugar of commerce is usually obtained from sugar 



12 Cooking for Two 

cane or beets and is a manufactured product. When 
we consider how much vegetable matter must be taken 
to obtain half a cup of granulated sugar, we under- 
stand that this sugar contains certain elements in a 
very concentrated form. If it is best to take food 
compounds as they occur in nature — diluted with 
other natural elements — ought we not to consider 
rather carefully the quantity of commercial sugar 
used at our tables ? Of course, when we eat milk and 
sweet fruits, we are eating sugar in its natural condi- 
tion. The beet properly cooked affords sugar in a 
wholesome and natural form. In chewing sugar-cane, 
though the fibres be not swallowed, we get the sweet 
product in a comparatively dilute form. But these 
foods are not available to all and the manufacture 
of sugar, at a price that puts it within the reach of 
every one, must be considered as one of the blessings 
of the age. The proper use of sugar will be taken 
up more fully in lessons where its use Is indicated. 

Fats. Fat comes from both the animal and the 
vegetable kingdom; like the carbohydrate It is com- 
posed of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. There is, 
however, In fat, a much larger proportion of carbon 
and less of oxygen than in starch and sugar, and on 
this account it burns very freely and gives intense 
heat. For heating purposes in the body fat is more 
valuable than carbohydrate and thus its use as food 
in cold weather is indicated. Olive oil, butter, bacon, 
cream and the fat of meat are the principal sources 
from which this compound is obtained. 



Cooking for Two 13 

Water and Mineral Matter. In discussing the 
value of a food we commonly consider only the pro- 
teid, carbohydrate and fat it contains. Water is a 
necessity, but, as all food contains this compound in 
generous measure, we need not pay particular atten- 
tion to it now. As regards mineral matter, except 
in the case of growing children, enough will be pres- 
ent in our food, unless our diet be extremely restricted. 

Nutrient Ratio. When we speak of the food value 
of any article of food we refer to the quantity of 
proteid, carbohydrate and fat present In the article, 
and the ratio that exists between the proteid, on one 
side, and the carbohydrate and fat, on the other. 
One part of fat (on account of the heat it liberates) 
is estimated as equal to two and one-fourth parts of 
starch. Thus corn meal, having a composition of 
9 per cent, protein, 75.4 per cent, carbohydrate and 
1.9 per cent, fat would have a nutrient ratio of about 
I to 9. 75.4 starch -f- 4-3 (f^t '" equivalent 
starch) = 79.7; i. e., 9 per cent, protein to 79.7 per 
cent, starch or about i to 9. There are many things 
to influence a decision as to the nutrient ratio desirable 
in the food to be supplied daily by the young house- 
keeper, as bodily weight, degree and kind of activity, 
climate, health, etc., but, in general, the ratio to be 
sought for In the diet of an adult is about i part pro- 
tein to five and three-tenths parts carbohydrate and 
fat; while in the diet of a child the proportions are 
as 1 : 4.3. 



CHAPTER II 

THE GAS RANGE, TABLES OF MEASURES, ETC. 

Primitive man ate his food untouched by other 
heat than that of the sun. Using artificial heat, as 
a means of better fitting crude food substances to the 
purposes of nutrition, is a result of human culture, 
and, the higher the culture of a people, the greater 
its progress in the science of food preparation or 
cooking. Different processes in cooking call for 
widely differing degrees of heat; the food compounds 
must be retained, not dissipated and lost, during the 
changes that take place while cooking is going on. 
Thus appliances that will quickly respond to regula- 
tion, and give the nice gradations of heat called for, 
without undue expense and labor, are demanded. 
When gas Is available, the gas range will be found 
well adapted to the needs of the young housekeeper. 

The parts of an ordinary gas range are : — 

1. Two single top burners. 

2. Two double top burners (one with " simmerer," one with 
medium burner). 

3. Two oven burners (these heat both ovens). 

4. A baking oven with movable grates. 

5. A broiling oven with movable grate and pan. 



Cooking for Two 15 

6. Gas cocks, one for each burner and for the " pilot light." 

7. A "pilot light" for lighting the oven burners. 

8. A movable iron sheet under the top burners. 

9. A pipe connecting with the chimney. 

The oven burners are in the lower or broiling oven. 
In this oven cooking is by direct heat. This oven 
is used for broiling fish, chops and steak, for toasting 
bread and quick browning of food. The baking oven 
is heated by Indirect heat, currents of hot air passing 
around the oven. 

To manage a gas range: i. Learn which pipe and 
gas cock supplies fuel to each burner. 

2. Learn to turn the gas. cocks to the left for a 
supply of gas and to the right to shut off the supply. 

3. Do not turn on the gas until the match is 
lighted. 

4. Open the doors of both ovens wide before 
lighting the oveh burners or the " pilot light." 

5. To shut off gas from the range, when It is not 
in use, do not depend entirely upon the gas cock of 
the main supply pipe, but keep all gas cocks of the 
top and oven turned hard to the right. 

6. Keep all parts of the range perfectly clean. 
Wash the floor of the ovens and the movable sheet 
under the top burners with soap and water often. 

7. Turn off the flow of gas the instant you are 
done cooking. 

8. Air Is admitted to the burners through open- 
ings in an enlarged portion (air-chamber) of the pipe 
near the stop-cocks, (this air causes the gas to burn 



16 Cooking for Two 

with a blue and exceedingly hot flame). Sometimes 
in lighting a burner the gas will " burn back " in this 
air chamber, making a roaring noise. When this 
happens, turn the gas cock to the right, to shut off the 
gas. After a few moments the gas will pass from the 
air chamber, then turn on and relight. 

To light a gas range: To light a top burner, turn 
the gas cock supplying the burner to the left, and 
apply a lighted match. To light a double burner, 
light one burner as above; turn the gas cock admit- 
ting gas to the other burner and the gas will light 
from the first burner. To light the oven burners, 
open both oven doors; turn the cock of the "pilot 
light" to the left and light the pilot light at the 
opening made for the purpose, outside the oven ; then 
turn the cock of one of the Oven burners to the left 
and the gas will ignite from the pilot light; turn the 
cock of the other oven burner to the left and the gas 
will ignite as before from the pilot light. When the 
gas in both burners flows well throughout the whole 
length of the burners, turn out the pilot light. 

To use gas economically, i. As soon as the con- 
tents of a sauce-pan boil, turn the gas as low as possi- 
ble without stopping the boiling. 2. Use the simmer- 
ing burner, whenever cooking at a gentle simmer is 
all that is desired. 3. When the oven has been made 
hot, turn down both burners. 4. Turn off the gas 
the instant the cooking is completed. 5. The oven 
burners use a large quantity of gas and, when these 
are to be lighted, plan to cook several things at the 



Cooking for Two 17 

same time. 6. If you are roasting meat, have baked 
rather than boiled potatoes, and a dessert cooked in 
the oven rather than on top of the range. 7. Dishes 
may be kept hot in the oven after the gas is turned 
off. 8. If the oven has not been used, food may be 
kept hot in a steam kettle set over the simmering 
burner. 9. A whole meal may also be cooked in a 
steam kettle over one burner. 10. A small portable 
oven that may be set over a single burner will prove 
an economical investment. 

The gas range in use: For broiling, toasting, 
browning dishes covered with buttered crumbs, etc., 
have the oven burners lighted and the doors closed 
five or six minutes before using the oven. Set the 
oven pan and rack holding the article to be cooked 
close under the burners and watch it carefully. A 
roast may be cooked in the broiling oven, while baking 
is being done in the upper oven; turn the roast fre- 
quently. 

For baking, light the oven burners and close the 
door ten or twelve minutes before putting in the food. 
When the lower oven is not in use and food is being 
cooked in the baking oven, it is well to leave the door 
of the lower oven open. 

To read the gas meter: Dial of a gas meter (x) 
at the beginning of a month; (y) after gas has been 
used a month. 

Read (x) from left to right, the arrows show the 
way the hands are going, and add two ciphers and 
you have the reading when gas began to be used 



18 



Cooking for Two 



(57,600 ft.)- Read (y) in the same way and you 
have the reading at the end of the month (63,800 
ft.) ; the difference (6,200 ft.) is the quantity of gas 
used in the month. As the " two ciphers " may be 
perplexing to some, we can get at this in another 
way. Always read the figures last passed by the 
hand; on dial " a " 50,000 ft. are indicated, on " b " 
7000, and on " c " 600, which equal 57,600 ft. 




CUBIC \::±:y FEET 
iooThousand ioTmousano I Thousand 




b 

X 




CUBIC \::±:y feet 

iooTmousano ioTmousand i-Thousand 




Cooking for Two 19 

MEASUREMENTS 

Measurements by weight are the most accurate, but, 
as a pair of scales is not included in the kitchen outfit 
of all young housekeepers, measurements by cup, 
table or teaspoon are usually designated. Measuring 
cups hold half a pint and divisions into quarters and 
thirds are indicated on the side. A cup of liquid is 
more than can be carried across the room without 
spilling. 

To measure half a cup of butter or chopped meat, 
press the article into the cup solidly and on a line 
with the ridge indicating half a cup. To measure 
a cup of these articles pack solidly to the top, making 
level with a knife. To measure flour fill the cup with 
a spoon and level the top with a knife. Measure a 
tablespoonful or a teaspoonful of flour or butter in the 
same way as the cup is measured. For half a spoon- 
ful, level the material with a knife, then divide length- 
wise of the spoon; divide a half spoonful crosswise, 
for a quarter spoonful. 

TABLE OF MEASURES 

3 teaspoonfuls make i tablespoonful. 
2 cups make i pint. 

4 cups or 2 pints make i quart. 



TABLE OF COMPARISONS OF WEIGHTS AND 
MEASURES 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter make I ounce. 
4 tablespoonfuls of flour make one ounce. 
I cup of flour is equal to ^ pound. 



20 Cooking for Two 

4 cups of flour are equal to i pound. 

I cup of milk or water is equal to Yz pound. 

Y-i cup of butter (solidly packed) is equal to J4 pound. 

I cup of butter (solidly packed) is equal to Y2 pound. 

I cup of granulated sugar is equal to Y^ pound. 

I cup of chopped meat (solidly packed) is equal to Y2 pound. 

5 eggs without shells are equal to Y2 pound. 
4 eggs with shells are equal to Y2 pound. 



PRINCIPAL METHODS OF COOKING 

1. Cooking by direct application of heat. 

Broiling. 
Roasting. 

2. Cooking by means of heated air, 

Baking. 

3. Cooking by direct application of hot water, 

Boiling. 
Stewing. 

4. Cooking by direct contact with steam, 

Steaming. 
S. , Cooking by indirect contact with boiling water. 
Double Boiler. 

6. Heat applied by means of hot fat. 

Frying. 
Sauteing. 

7. Heat applied by means of a heated metal, 

Pan Broiling. 

8. A combination of stewing and baking results in. 

Braising. 

9. A combination of frying and stewing results in, 

Fricasseeing. 

LIST OF INDISPENSABLE UTENSILS FOR 
KITCHEN AND PANTRY 

The following list is given as indispensable, but 
even from this list, if necessary, some things might 



Cooking for Two 



21 



be omitted. Let us remember, however, that good 
work calls for good tools. And when the nerve 
racking effects of trying to get along with utensils 
ill adapted to the purpose for which they are used 
are considered, who shall say that a pantry well- 
stocked with useful utensils is not a prime requisite 
to the cheerful happy home. 



GLASS AND EARTHEN WARE 



6 Fruit Jars, pint size, for 

storing supplies 
6 Fruit Jars, quart size, for 

storing supplies 
Lemon Squeezer 
I Bowl for mixing bread, 4 

quart 
Plate or cover for the same 

1 Bowl for mixing cake, muf- 

fins, etc., 2 quart 

2 Pint Bowls 

2 Half-pint Bowls 
6 Kitchen Saucers or small 
plates to cover food 



I Quart Baking Dish (round 

or oval) 
I Pint Baking Dish (round or 

oval) 
I Quart Au Gratin Dish 
I Teapot 
I Casserole or Earthen Dish 

with Cover 
I Molasses Jug (2 quart) 
I Jar with Cover for storing 

bread (2 gallon) 
I Jar with Cover for storing 

butter (i gallon, low and 

wide) 



I Coffee Pot 

I Double Boiler (quart) 

1 Kettle with Cover (4 quart) 

2 Kettles with Covers (2 quart) 
2 Saucepans (pint) 

2 Saucepans (half-pint) 
I Hand Basin 



AGATE WARE 

I Colander 



I Roasting Pan for Meat (10 

to 12 inches long) 
I Roasting Pan for Fish (10 

to 12 inches long) 
I Omelet Pan (about 7 ins. in 

diameter) 



ALUMINUM WARE 

I Tea Kettle macaroni (2 quart) 

I Saucepan for boiling rice and 



22 



Cooking for Two 



IRON AND STEEL 



Scales 

I Cast Iron Frying Pan (double 

lipped) to fit range 
I Cast Iron Muffin Pan 
I Cast Iron Scotch Bowl, for 

frying, to fit range 
3 Common Case Knives (steel) 
3 Common Four Tined Forks 

(steel) 
I Large Knife (for mixing 

Dough) 
I Palette Knife 
I Chopping Knife 



I Small French Knife 

I Bread Knife 

I Can Opener 

3 Tablespoons (plated) 

3 Teaspoons (plated) 

I Griddle Cake Turner 

I Meat Rack to fit Meat Pan 

I Fish Sheet to fit Fish Pan 

I Cork Screw 

I Egg Beater (Hill or Dover) 

I Ice Pick 

Scissors 

Chain Dish Cloth 



TIN AND WIRE WARE 



I Biscuit Pan 


I Apple Corer 


2 Bread Pans (brick-loaf) 


1 Small Tunnel 


2 Measuring Cups (half-pint) 


2 Biscuit Cutters (different 


Potato Ricer 


sizes) 


Gravy Strainer 


I Wire Broiler for Steak, 


Skimmer 


Chops, etc. 


Dredger for Flour (half pint) 


I Wire Broiler for Fish 


Dredger for Sugar (half pint) 


I Small Wire Strainer 


Dredger for Salt (quarter pint) 


I Dish Pan 


Wire Rack for Cooling Bread, 


I Draining Basket 


etc. 


I Cannister for Tea 


Flour Sieve (Hunter's) 


I Cannister for Coffee 


2 Milk Pans (3 quart) 


Garbage Can 


I Lemon Grater 





WOODEN WARE 



I Rolling Pin 

I Bread Board 

I Meat Board (hard wood) 

I Chopping Bowl (small) 



I Brush, small, for pastry, etc. 
I Brush for Cleaning Vege- 
tables (.05) 
I Scrubbing Pail 



I Perforated Wooden Spoon i Broom (Corn) 



Cooking for Two 



23 



I Broom (Bristles) 

1 Deck Mop 

2 Brush Brooms (small) 
(stove and floor) 

I Bristle Brush (floor) 

I Bristle Brush (stove) 

I Scrub Brush 

I Bucket for Sugar (lo lbs.) 

I High Stool 

I Rocking Chair 



I Common Chair 

I Step Ladder and Seat com- 
bined 

Pole with Hook to open win- 
dows 

Pole with Brush to wash win- 
dows (outside) 

Small Zinc Covered Table on 
Casters 

Refrigerator 



LINEN, COTTON AND MISCELLANEOUS 



6 Fine Linen Towels (dish) 

6 Coarse Linen Towels (dish) 

6 Dish Cloths 

6 Hand Towels 

6 Holders 

3 Sink Cloths (new, not old 

and linty) 
3 Floor Cloths (new, not old 

and linty) 
3 Lamp Cloths 
6 Dusting Cloths (new, not old 

and linty) 
S yards of Cheese Cloth 
Fine Linen Strainers (table 



linen not too much worn) 

Napkins of Old Linen Table- 
cloths for use under au- 
gratin and other hot dishes 

I Heavy Canvas Bag (for 
pounding ice) 

Fine Twine 

Coarse Twine 

Straight Brass Hooks, i dozen 

Curved Brass Hooks, i dozen 

Tissue Paper 

Waxed Paper 

Thin Brown Paper (lining 
cake pans, etc.) 



LIST OF INDISPENSABLE UTENSILS AND FUR- 
NISHINGS IN DINING ROOM 



Dining Table 
Dining Chairs 
Sideboard or Serving Table 

(or both) 
3 Linen Covers for above 
I Heavy Cover for table, i^ 

yds. long (silence cloth) 
I Heavy Cover for table, 2 yds. 

long 



3 Tablecloths, 2 yards long 
I Tablecloth, 2^4 yards long 
I Dozen Dinner Napkins to 

match longest cloth 
I Dozen Smaller Napkins 
I Dozen Fringed Napkins 
3 Platter Cloths 
3 Tray Cloths 



24 



Cooking for Two 



GLASS 



I Dozen Tumblers 

1 Caraffe or Water Pitcher 

2 Pepper Shakers 
2 Salt Shakers 

I Bottle for Oil 



I Bottle for Vinegar 
I Bowl for Canned Fruit, etc. 
Two "Rests" for Carving 
Knife and Fork. 



I Dozen Medium Knives 
I Dozen Medium Forks 
I Dozen Dessert Forks 
I Dozen Dessert or 
Spoons 



4 Tablespoons 



SILVER 

I Dozen Teaspoons 
I Butter Knife 
Sugar Tongs 
Soup Sugar Scoop 

Small Tray for Spoons 
Carving Knife and Fork 



CHINA FROM STOCK PATTERN 



Soup Plates, i Dozen 
Dinner Plates, I Dozen 
Breakfast Plates, i Dozen 
Tea Plates, i Dozen 
Saucers, Coffee, i Dozen 
Saucers, Tea, i Dozen 
Sauce Dishes, i Dozen 
Coffee Cups, i Dozen 
Tea Cups, i Dozen 



Sugar Bowl 
Cream Pitcher 
Milk Pitcher 
Bread Plates, Two 
Platters, Three 
Vegetable Dishes, Two 
Tile or Stand for Coffee 
Tea Pot 



and 



LIST OF SUPPLIES NEEDED IN COOKING — APART 
FROM THOSE BOUGHT FROM DAY TO DAY 



Cocoa, Yi lb. 
Coffee, I lb. 
Tea, I lb. 

Granulated Sugar, 5 lbs. 
Loaf Sugar, 2 lbs. 
Powdered Sugar, 2 lbs. 
Molasses, ^ gallon 
Rolled Oats, i package 
Wheat Cereal, i package 



Tapioca, i package 
Rice, I lb. 

Macaroni, i package 
Butter, 2 lbs. 

Lard or Cottolene, i 2-lb. pail 
Bread Flour, i sack 
Pastry Flour, i sack 
Entire- Wheat Flour, 5 lbs. 
Rye Meal, 3 lbs. 



Cooking for Two 25 

Corn Meal, 3 lbs. Vinegar, i quart 

Salt, I small bag Lemons, ^ doz. 

Black Pepper, % lb. box Gelatine, 2 packages 

Mustard, ^ lb. box Chocolate, i lb. 

Mace, % lb. box Cornstarch, i package 

Vanilla, i 2 oz. bottle Pea Beans, 2 lbs. 

Edam Cheese, i small Dried Lima Beans, 2 lbs. 

Sultana Raisins, i lb., or Prunes, 2 lbs. 

Cleaned Currants, i lb. Potatoes, 1 peck 

Baking Powder, J4 lb. box Apples, i peck (if seasonable) 

Cream-of-Tartar, % lb. Bacon or Salt Pork, i lb. 

Baking Soda, i package 

Note: By a careful reading of these first two 
chapters the answers to the following questions are 
easily worked out, and it is recommended that all 
beginners in cookery endeavor to answer these satis- 
factorily to themselves as preliminary to their work. 

1. Why is an abundant supply of air essential to 
life? 

2. If the protein is not supplied in the food — as 
when one is sick and does not eat — from what 
source is protein obtained for life's processes? 

3. Why do we call proteids the most important of 
the proximate principles? 

4. Give a list of twelve articles of food that are 
classed as rich in the proteid principle. 

5. How much time did it take to wash the starch 
from the gluten in the ball of dough? 

6. Name three physical characteristics of the pro- 
teids. What is the meaning of the word proteid? 

7. In what way do extractives influence digestion? 



26 Cooking for Two 

8. Does heat affect proteids and gelatinoids in the 
same way? 

9. Which is the broader term, protein or proteid? 

10. Name ten articles of food that are largely 
carbohydrate. 

11. Name five articles of food that contain both 
proteid and carbohydrate. 

12. Is there any difference in the digestibility of 
the crumb and the crust of bread ? 

13. Give reasons for your opinion on the preceding 
question. 

14. Can a loaf of bread be baked to insure the 
highest digestibility of both the proteid and carbo- 
hydrate principles which are present in it? If so, 
how? If not which principle will you sacrifice, and 
why? 

15. Read your gas meter before and after cooking 
your dinner and estimate the cost of the gas used in 
getting the meal. If you use coal or wood, note the 
quantity used in cooking for the day and estimate the 
cost. 

16. Why open the oven doors of a gas range be- 
fore lighting the pilot light and oven burners? 

17. Can you bake on the floor of the oven of your 
gas range ; or is it necessary to bake on a grate raised 
an inch or more from the floor? 




i%-i«rrMM-wmr»f?tfft^8arw^^ 



Making Tea with Tea Ball. — Page 31. 




Why is a Coffee Pot made with the nozzle near Tiit top and a 
Teapot with the nozzle near the bottom? — Page sS. 



CHAPTER III 

WATER, MAKING OF TEA, COFFEE, ETC. 

Water is boiled in the kitchen for two distinct purposes : First, 
for the cooking of itself ; second, for the cooking of other things. 
— Mattieu Williams. 

Water is a very important item in cookery. It is 
often made the vehicle of conveying heat to the article 
to be cooked, and the character of the cook is shown 
by her skill in regulating the degree of heat thus con- 
veyed. 

If you put a spoonful of salt or sugar into a glass 
of cold water and stir the water, the sugar or salt 
seems lost. You can not see it, but a taste of the 
water proves to you that it is there. If you use hot 
water instead of cold, the substance will disappear 
even more quickly. We say of these substances that 
they are soluble in water. 

If a pound of steak, in one piece or in several small 
pieces, be covered with cold water, the water will soon 
be colored by the juices of the meat. More of the 
juices will be drawn out into the water, in a given 
time, if the meat be cut into small pieces than if it 
be left in one large piece, just as granulated sugar 
will dissolve more quickly than a cube of loaf sugar. 



28 Cooking for Two 

Water is nature's great solvent; all substances are 
in some degree soluble in water. 

Water is hard or soft; hard water contains salts 
of lime and is less solvent than soft water. Hard 
water is distinguished by the fact that in it soap will 
not lather freely. This solvent property of water is 
made much use of in cookery, and both in cookery 
and in nature it may be of great benefit to us or quite 
the reverse; for, on account of its solvent property, 
water may become contaminated with the germs of 
disease or with lead from the pipe in which it stands. 
If water be boiled in a teakettle, day after day, and 
the kettle be left unwashed, lime and other salts that 
settle upon the bottom of the kettle will become dis- 
solved in the water, thus making it even more hard 
than when it is first drawn from its source. Water in 
a stationary boiler often holds in solution rust and 
other deposits from lead, copper and brass. None 
of this water is fit for drinking or cooking. 



SAFE DRINKING WATER 

If the presence of disease germs be suspected in 
water, boiling is the only remedy. Let the water boil 
vigorously half an hour, then pour it from a height 
into a vessel, (fruit jars are convenient), that has 
been washed in boiled water, then filled with the same 
and let stand in a hot place half an hour. Cover the 
vessel closely and store in a cool place. Such water 
tastes flat and dead, because some of the gases in 



Cooking for Two 29 

combination have been driven off in boiling. By pour- 
ing the water into the receptacle from a height, gases 
are absorbed during the passage through the air, 
which give the water a more natural taste. 

Joints are made in lead pipe more easily than in 
iron or steel pipe, and so the former is generally used 
in plumbing, after the pipe enters the walls of the 
house, or above the cellar. To obviate any danger 
of lead poisoning, before using the water, let it run 
two or three minutes, thus discarding the water that 
has been standing in the pipe. Never take water from 
the hot-water pipe for drinking or cooking purposes. 

TEMPERATURE OF WATER FOR COOKING 

We have said that heat hardens proteid substances, 
and that high heat changes starch to soluble com- 
pounds; thus it is evident, at once, that proteid sub- 
stances and starch should not be subjected to water 
at the same temperature. Then, first of all, the young 
cook needs to acquaint herself with the nature of 
water at different temperatures. An ordinary ther- 
mometer, if handled carefully, will be of assistance 
in learning to secure accurate temperatures. In using 
the thermometer avoid subjecting it too suddenly to 
extremes of heat and cold. 

BOILING AND SIMMERING WATER 
Nin§ women out of ten will say that " a teakettle 
boils," some time before it has reached that state. 



30 Cooking for Two 

Water holds gases and when heated — even by stand- 
ing in a warm room, — these gases expand and ap- 
pear as tiny bubbles on the bottom of the vessel; as 
the heat is increased these bubbles rise and break at or 
near the surface of the water. By the time most of 
the air has been driven off from the water, the heat 
causes larger bubbles to collect at the bottom of the 
pan; these bubbles are of an invisible gas known as 
steam. The first break before they reach the surface, 
because they are not strong enough to withstand the 
pressure above them. At this point a thermometer 
set in the water would register about 185° F. If 
the water were in a teakettle, a steady stream of very 
fine mist would slowly pass from the spout of the 
kettle. Such water is said to simmer. By and by, as 
the water becomes hotter, the bubbles become stronger 
and will not break until they reach the surface of the 
water; the thermometer (at sea level) now indicates 
212° F. and we say the water boils. From a teakettle 
of boiling water the steam comes in forcible jets 
through the spout. Above sea level, the pressure 
being decreased, water boils at several degrees lower 
than 212" F. By increasing the heat water may be 
made to boil furiously, but it will not grow hotter. 

TO HEAT WATER QUICKLY 

When boiling water Is needed at short notice, set 
the water over the fire in a saucepan that presents con- 
siderable surface to the fire, and cover the dish to 
retain heat. 



Cooking for Two 31 

COMPOSITION OF TEA 

A cup of tea, outside of the cream and sugar often 
taken with it, possesses no nutritive qualities. It is a 
stimulant and has a mildly exhilarating effect. The 
desirable elements in tea are the stimulating principle, 
theine, and the essential oil, which gives fragrance. 
An undesirable element in tea is tannin, a bitter astrin- 
gent substance. Tannin in the stomach interferes 
with digestion by hardening the proteid substances in 
the food; it also toughens and hardens the lining of 
the stomach. The problem is to make tea so as to 
secure the desirable qualities and avoid the tannin. 
This is really a very simple thing to do. The essen- 
tial oil and theine are readily and quickly dissolved 
from the tea leaves upon the application of boiling 
water. Simmering water makes a weak, insipid infu- 
sion of tea. After the water has stood on the leaves 
five minutes, the presence of the astringent tannin is 
apparent, and if the water with the leaves be boiled 
rather than steeped, tannin is extracted in quantity. 
Tea, made by pouring water over the " spent " tea 
leaves that have been left standing in a teapot from 
a previous meal, is a slow but sure poison. 

THE TEAPOT AND TEA BALL 

The pot in which tea is steeped deserves consider- 
ation, for tannin combines with the elements in some 
metals, as tin, producing most unwholesome com- 
pounds. China, earthen ware and silver, all are satis- 



32 Cooking for Two 

factory wares in a teapot. It doubtless is needless to 
add that both the tea and coffee-pot should be emptied 
at once after use, then cleansed and dried with care, 
and again scalded and dried before use. Perhaps, for 
two, a silver tea ball is quite as desirable for tea 
making as a teapot. 

STEEPING THE TEA 

Let the cups and tea-ball be made hot in the warm- 
ing oven, or by immersing in hot water and then dry- 
ing. Put a generous teaspoonful of tea into the ball ; 
have fresh-drawn water boiling on the range or over 
the alcohol lamp. Pour the water into the cups and 
lift the ball up and down, first in one cup and then 
in the other, until the color shows that the right 
strength of tea is secured. Do not let the ball remain 
in the cups more than five minutes. If a stronger 
cup be desired, use the tea leaves in the ball for one 
cup, remove the spent leaves and take a fresh portion 
of leaves for the second cup. When tea is made in 
the teapot, let the pot stand in a warm place four or 
five minutes after the boiling water has been poured 
over the leaves, then pour off the liquid at once. As 
there has been no motion in a pot of tea that has not 
been boiled, it is quite evident that the strongest tea 
will be at the bottom of the pot. 

COFFEE AND COFFEE MAKING 
When the paper-like covering and the soft pulp are 
removed from the fruit of the coffee tree, two seeds 



Cooking for Two 33 

remain ; these are the coffee beans of commerce. By 
roasting these beans moisture is driven off and fra- 
grance is developed. By grinding or otherwise pul- 
verizing the beans a larger extent of surface is pre- 
sented to the solvent action of water, and, if the water 
be heated to the boiling point, a fragrant, mildly 
stimulating beverage is produced. Tannin is present 
in coffee, but in less quantity than in tea, and it "is not 
dissolved from the coffee bean so readily as from the 
more fragile tea leaf. Breakfast coffee may be made 
by boiling the ground coffee in the water, or by filter- 
ing water at the boiling point through the pulverized 
product. A silver or white enameled pot is the proper 
receptacle for coffee that is to be boiled; two level 
tablespoonfuls of ground coffee, to each cup of water, 
is the accepted proportion for the beverage. This 
proportion holds good also, if the coffee is to be made 
in a filter. For after-dinner coffee, double the meas- 
ure of coffee is the rule. 

In our talk on proteid, we said that heat hardened 
proteid substances. We make use of this fact to 
secure clear, boiled coffee. By mixing a little white 
of egg (which contains a large proportion of proteid 
substance) with the ground coffee, the egg will harden 
about the grains of coffee, when the liquid boils, and 
the mass thus held together will settle to the bottom 
of the pot, leaving the liquid clear and sparkling. 
The white that adheres to the shells of two eggs 
(broken for some other purpose) will be sufficient to 
clear two cups of coffee. If too much egg be used. 



34 Cooking for Two 

such a firm coating will be formed around the coffee 
that the water can not act upon it and the decoction 
will be weak. 



TWO CUPS OF BOILED COFFEE 

Five level tablespoonfuls of ground coffee. 

The crushed shells of two eggs or a little white of 

egg- 
Four tablespoonfuls of cold water. 
Two cups and one-half of boiling water. 
Three tablespoonfuls of cold water. 
Mix together thoroughly the coffee, the crushed 
shells and the four tablespoonfuls of cold water; let 
stand five or six minutes, then pour on the boiling 
water, cover closely, and let boil three or four minutes 
after boiling begins. Remove the pot to a cooler 
part of the range, pour the three tablespoonfuls of 
water down the spout and let stand for about eight 
minutes, then carefully pour off two cups of the liquid. 
Keep the Inside of the coffee-pot immaculate, as coffee 
absorbs odors and flavors most readily. Always scald 
the pot before using. 

FILTERED COFFEE 

A large variety of pots, in which filtered coffee may 
be made, are to be seen in kitchen furnishing stores. 
Full directions for making the coffee come with the 
pots. The items most essential to note are, that the 
water used be at the boiling point, and the liquid be 



Cooking for Two 35 

hot when it is served. A pound of coffee will serve 
two people, once a day, nearly two weeks. 

COCOA AND CHOCOLATE 

Average composition of cocoa and chocolate as 
purchased. — Atwater. 





Water Protein Fat 




Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. 


Cocoa 


. 4.6 21.6 28.9 


Chocolate 


• S-9 12.9 48.7 




Carbohydrates Ash Food Value 




Per cent. Per cent. Per lb. 


Cocoa 


37-3 7.2 2.320 Cal. 


Chocolate . 


30.3 2.2 2.860 Cal. 



In tea and coffee, properties of the leaf and bean, 
respectively, soluble in water, are all that are used 
in the beverage, but in cocoa and chocolate, both of 
which are made from cocoa seeds or beans, the beans 
themselves, fine-powdered, form an integral part of 
the beverage. Then cocoa and chocolate become food 
as well as drink. Theobromine, the stimulating prin- 
ciple in cocoa beans, is much less pronounced in its 
effects than the corresponding principle in tea or 
coffee. The high percentage of fat present in the 
bean (see composition), though some of this is re- 
moved in the process of manufacture, together with 
the other food principles, renders the beverage too 
rich for use in conjunction with hearty food. As a 
rule, in making cocoa, follow the directions pre- 
sented with the package, keeping in mind that, in 



36 Cooking for Two 

general, boiling the mixture will improve it. In the 
manufacture of chocolate, starch is added, and thus 
beverages made from chocolate call for cooking. 



TWO CUPS OF CHOCOLATE 

One ounce of chocolate. 

Two tablespoon fuls of sugar. 

One-half cup of boiling water. 

One cup and one-half of hot milk (or part milk 
and part water) . 

Melt the chocolate in a small saucepan set over the 
teakettle ; add the sugar and half-cup of water, and 
cook and stir directly over the fire until smooth and 
glossy; continue cooking, stirring occasionally, about 
six minutes, then stir into the milk, scalded over hot 
water; beat with an egg beater about five minutes, 
and the chocolate is ready to serve. 

BEEF TEA 

The stimulating principle that we have noted in 
tea, coffee and chocolate, is duplicated in meats by a 
similar principle. This it is that gives color and flavor 
to the juices of meat. This principle in meats, as also 
the albuminous juices and minor compounds, are sol- 
uble in water, and when extracted make a valuable 
beverage in that it stimulates the appetite. Also being 
easily digested such a beverage is often desirable, 
when one is tired or indisposed. The pleasing aroma 
incidental to cooked meats can not be secured by 



Cooking for Two 37 

means of cold water, but the albuminous juices (pro- 
teid) begin to harden or coagulate at about 134° F. 
The aroma is an essential aid to digestion and the 
hardening of the juices a hindrance ; thus the temper- 
ature of the water should be regulated to fit both 
requirements, that is, the preservation of juices and 
flavor. 

RECIPE FOR BEEF TEA 

One pound of beefsteak from the round, two cups 
of cold water, salt to season. 

Remove fat from the meat, wipe the steak with a 
damp cloth, then cut into small pieces. Have ready 
a fruit jar, scalded and cooled; put in the meat and 
two cups of cold water, cover the jar and let it gtand 
twenty minutes in a cool place. Fold a newspaper 
to make a thick, smooth mat; put this into a sauce- 
pan, set.the jar upon it and pour in cold water to sur- 
round the jar to the height of the liquid inside. Let 
the water heat gradually to 130° F. Keep it at this 
*point for two hours, then increase the temperature to 
about 134° F., or until the color of the juice is dark- 
ened a little and the albuminous juices are slightly 
coagulated. Pour off the liquid, season and serve. 
A sprig or two of parsley, or a stalk of celery cut in 
pieces, may be put into the jar with the meat. 

QUESTIONS 

I . Think of two ways by which you can distinguish 
between boiling and simmering water. 



38 Cooking for Two 

2. Why is water heated more quickly when the 
saucepan is covered? 

3. If you wish to make a thick syrup of sugar and 
water, should the pan be covered or uncovered, and 
why? 

4. What difference do you note in the construction 
of an ordinary coffee and a teapot ? Give reason for 
same. 

5. Which is preferable, the first or last cup of tea, 
of coffee, and why? 

6. Criticise the following menu for a dinner for a 
family of two young people : Broiled bluefish ; baked 
potatoes; boiled onions, buttered; lettuce, French 
dressing; bread and butter; Boston cream cakes, 
cocoa. 



CHAPTER IV 

COOKING OF TRUE PROTEIDS, TISSUE BUILDERS, 
MILK AND CHEESE 

When we are to cook a new article, we should ask 
ourselves these questions : How will heat affect this ? 
What is its composition ? In our first lesson we found 
in milk an elastic, tenacious curd called casein, which 
was hardened by a high degree of heat. We also 
found a greenish liquid (whey) , which we rightly 
suspect to be largely water. If we let a saucepan of 
milk remain over the fire for some time, a scum will 
form on the top; this is probably casein. Pour off 
the milk, and we find coagulated particles on the 
bottom of the dish. Albumin is coagulated by heat, 
and we conclude that, at least, a small quantity of 
albumin is found in milk. Let a cup or more of rich 
milk stand over night, and a thick (comparatively), 
yellowish substance will rise to the top of the milk; 
put a teaspoonful or more of this " top-milk " into 
your cup of hot coffee, and a few globules of fat will 
float on the top of the coffee. The whey holds in solu- 
tion a little mineral matter and milk sugar. Thus, 
we have in milk proteid (in the form of casein and 



40 Cooking for Two 

albumin), water, fat, carbohydrate (milk sugar), and 
mineral matter, the five food principles. Thus, cow's 
milk is often called a perfect food ; it is for the young 
calf, but the food principles are not found in the right 
proportion to make it a perfect food for human be- 
ings. The calf, on milk alone, builds up a large, 
heavy framework of bone in a few months. Many 
years must pass before a child reaches a similar stage 
of physical development. Thus, to make cow's milk 
a perfect food for a child, the bone-making elements 
need to be reduced and other changes made, or the 
milk, as we say, should be " modified." An adult 
would not find it comfortable to take all his food in 
liquid form. The food elements in milk are com- 
bined with too large a proportion of water to make 
such a diet feasible ; but when a glass of milk forms 
a part of any meal, the other proteid in the meal 
should be cut down accordingly. We should also 
keep in mind the quantity of milk used in cooking; 
as — if we provide a dish of cream toast (toast with 
thickened milk) , we are supplying more proteid than 
when we have dry toast with butter. 



COOKING MILK 
We know that proteid is toughened by high heat, 
and that, in general, any process that hardens or 
toughens a food substance hinders the process of di- 
gestion; thus, when we consider the composition of 
milk, we would naturally conclude that milk, if 



Cooking for Two 41 

cooked at all, should be cooked at a low temperature. 
However, there are people who seem to digest boiled 
milk better than that which has not been so treated, 
and, possibly, these are the exceptions that prove the 
rule. But while there may be some doubt on this 
point, there is no question but that the flavor of 
burned milk is absolutely unpalatable. Milk cooked 
directly over the fire burns very easily; also, when 
once the boiling point is reached, the bubbles, on ac- 
count of the large proportion of solid material in the 
milk — do not break and scatter, but pile up, one 
above another, until the mass overflows the dish. 
Then, for this reason, if for no other, milk, whenever 
it is possible, should be cooked by some means that 
keep it from being heated to the boiling point. For 
such purposes we have the " double boiler." Two 
dishes are arranged, one inside the other, in such a 
manner that water surrounds the inner dish up to 
within, perhaps, two inches of the top. Thus, water 
stands between the article to be cooked and the heat, 
and the temperature of the cooking article never 
reaches that of boiling water. By this means, all risk 
of burning or overcooking is obviated. 

After the water in the outer vessel has been boiling 
a few moments, small bubbles will appear close to 
the kettle, and at the surface of milk, in the inner 
boiler. These bubbles indicate that the milk is 
scalded, and that the temperature is about i6o° F. 
As long as water is kept in the outer kettle, the tem- 
perature of the milk does not rise higher. A double 



42 Cooking for Two 

boiler is easily secured by setting a small saucepan on 
two or three nails disposed in a larger saucepan. 

CARE OF MILK 

Milk is an article that offers conditions favorable 
to the growth of minute organisms, which may be 
introduced into it from the air or the utensils In which 
it Is* stored. Some of these organisms are harmful, 
others are not. Some cause the milk to sour. The 
growth of all organisms Is hastened by mild heat, as 
the death of most Is assured by boiling heat. Deal- 
ers, who supply milk to cities, are from necessity care- 
ful to chill the milk thoroughly as soon as It Is taken 
from the cow ; It is, also, kept chilled until the time of 
delivery. Half an hour In a hot kitchen, or In the 
sun, will undo all this careful treatment, and hasten 
the time of souring. Do not wait until after break- 
fast, but at once, as soon as the milk comes to your 
hand, set it aside in the coolest place at your com- 
mand. Milk, cream and butter all readily absorb 
odors and flavors, and If kept in a refrigerator with 
other food should be closely covered. When possible, 
It is well to reserve a separate compartment of the 
refrigerator for these products. Receptacles, In 
which these are stored, should be made without 
seams, lest stale milk, etc., may find lodgment in them, 
and kept absolutely clean. When a portion of the 
milk Is taken from a bottle, kept with other supplies, 
replace the stopper, or insert a fresh one before the 
milk is again set aside. 



Cooking for Two 43 

SOUR MILK 
After milk sours it becomes thick ; if it be cut with 
a knife or spoon, a greenish, watery liquid (whey) is 
seen. Sour milk is very useful in cooking. Some 
cooks fancy they get the best results by using simply 
the whey. This may be true in making certain dishes. 
But as the nutritious compounds of the milk are 
largely found in the thick, white part, it would seem 
advisable, in general, to use that also. 

JUNKET 
A similar thickening of milk takes place when it 
is acted upon by rennin; this thickening may be 
hastened by warming the milk slightly. When thus 
prepared, the sour taste is not present, and by the 
addition of appropriate flavors and a little sugar, 
milk may be presented in a variety of tasty and at- 
tractive dishes. These are junket or junket custards. 
Rennin is a ferment secreted in the glands of the 
stomach, and, for use in cooking, is prepared from the 
stomach of the 'calf. It may be obtained in liquid or 
tablet form ; the latter is the most convenient for use. 

PLAIN JUNKET WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

Crush one-fourth a junket tablet and let it dissolve 
in a tablespoonful of cold water. Heat one cup of 
rich milk and two or three level tablespoonfuls of 
sugar to about 90° F. As milk heats to this degree 
very quickly, the safest way is to set a thermometer 



44 Cooking for Two 

into it on putting it over the fire. Remove from the 
fire, take out the thermometer, and stir in half a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla or a tablespoonful or two of 
sherry wine and the dissolved tablet. A few grains 
of salt, less than one-fourth a teaspoonful, may im- 
prove the dish for some. Pour the preparation into 
two glass cups ; let stand in a warm place till it jellies, 
then set aside in a cool place, to become chilled. A 
short time before serving put a tablespoonful of sugar 
and a few drops of flavoring into one-third a cup of 
double cream and beat it solid to the bottom of the 
bowl. With a bag and tube, or a spoon, put the 
cream on to the top of the junket. 

CARAMEL JUNKET 

Stir two level tablespoonfuls of sugar over the fire 
until the sugar is dissolved and becomes a rich cara- 
mel color; add three or four tablespoonfuls of water 
and let cook to a thick syrup ; add the syrup, a table- 
spoonful of sugar and a few grains of salt to a cup 
of milk and heat to 90° F. ; add one-fourth a junket 
tablet, dissolved as above, and finish in the same way. 

CHOCOLATE JUNKET 

Dissolve one-fourth an ounce of chocolate over hot 
water; add three tablespoonfuls, each, of sugar and 
boiling water, and heat to the boiling point; add a 
cup of milk and half a teaspoonful of vanilla, test 
with the thermometer and, if the mixture is not at 
90" F., heat it to that degree; add one-fourth a 




Hot Toast no \^'AFF.Rs \\'ith Cream Chf.ese and Slice ov Stuffed 
Olive. — Page 40. 




Cheese Toast with Bacon. — Poge 49. 




Cheese Ramequins. — Page 50. 




Creamed Macaroni au Gratin. — Pag 











i 


ii^^ 


1^^^^ 


■i^m,^ 


^m3l_ 


..^ 


, ';'■ 'f'V::-:^---- 


l^^S^ 


j4 


|^^9yf^[^ 




/ 


P 


w ^$ » 


L. 


• 




■^-^ 


■ 


L^^.— 


) 


• 


il 


^ 


. , ■■■■■:;■■ ■ : 







Macar()m Croouettes. -- Page 54. 




Macaroni Baked with ^Tilk and Cheese. — Page 51". 



Cooking for Two 45 

junket tablet, dissolved as before, and finish in the 
same manner. These are simple, inexpensive des- 
serts that admit of many variations. Coffee, crumbs 
of sponge cake or brown bread, spices, preserved 
ginger, cooked figs or dates, etc., etc., are among the 
articles suitable for this use. 

Other recipes for use of junket will be given in the 
chapter on ices. 

QUESTIONS 

1. Why is milk called a " perfect food? " 

2. Are cane sugar and milk sugar identical? 

3. Is butter a tissue builder? Why? 

4. Is butter a strength giver? Why? 

5. What is the office of butter? 

6. With what foods would you eat butter? 

7. With which, rice or cornmeal, would you eat 
the most butter? 

8. Would butter be needed with bacon and pota- 
toes? 

9. Which is preferable for making a sauce, second 
grade of butter, or fat from boiled poultry or beef? 

10. Which do you consider the more economical 
form of fat to buy, cream or butter? 

1 1 . Why should milk be eaten from a teaspoon 
rather than drunk hastily from a glass ? 

CHEESE 

The nitrogenous portion of the milk, as also some 
of the fat separated from the water (whey) and 



46 Cooking for Two 

treated in a manner to preserve it for a longer or a 
shorter time is called cheese. Thus cheese is a com- 
pact, concentrated food, corresponding to eggs, lean 
meat and fish. On account of its density cheese is not 
always easy of digestion. It should never be given to 
young children. Some varieties of cheese, notably 
such as are soft or contain a goodly portion of the 
fat of milk, are more readily digested than others. 
Edam cheese, probably from the method of manufac- 
ture, rarely disagrees with any one. Most varieties 
of cheese, and particularly the common factory cheese, 
are more wholesome if grated or cut in thin shavings, 
mixed with cooked ingredients, and then softened 
with gentle heat. Vegetables, macaroni or bread 
crumbs, all foods of a starchy nature, are the articles 
usually introduced into cheese dishes, to lessen the 
density. As cheese, like all proteid substances, is 
hardened by high heat, care must be taken that the 
articles combined with it be thoroughly cooked before 
the combination is made. 

HOT TOASTED WAFERS, CREAM CHEESE, ETC. 

Mix such portion of a cream or Neufchatel cheese 
as is desired with cream, a few grains of salt and a 
dash of paprika to make a soft mixture but one firm 
enough to hold its shape. When ready to serve, toast 
some wafers or heat them in the oven, put a spoonful 
of the cheese on each with a slice of a pimola above. 
With a pastry bag and tube the cheese may be given 
a star shape. 



Cooking for Two 47 

SAVORY CHEESE 

Beat one-fourth a cup (two ounces) of butter to 
a cream ; gradually beat into this one- fourth a pound 
of common, factory cheese (grated), a tablespoonful 
of grated onion, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, a tablespoonful of tomato catsup, half a chilli 
pepper, chopped exceedingly fine, and a teaspoonful 
of fine-chopped parsley. Mix all together thoroughly, 
then press into a cup. Serve, turned from the cup, 
with toasted crackers or pulled bread and crisp celery, 
or, lettuce with French dressing. 

CHEESE STICKS 

Cut rye, whole wheat or graham bread into slices 
half an inch thick. Cut these into strips half an inch 
wide, after removing the crust. Grate two ounces of 
cheese; add a dash of paprika and beat into one- 
fourth a cup (two ounces) of butter, beaten to a 
cream. Spread this mixture on one side of the strips 
of bread and set them into the oven to melt the cheese. 
Serve with a fresh, green salad. Crackers may be 
used in place of the strips of bread. 

CHEESE OMELET (BAKED) 

2 eggs ^ teaspoonful of salt 

6 tablespoonfuls of grated Ya teaspoonful of paprika 
cheese I cup of milk 

Beat the yolks of the eggs until light and thick; 
fold in the cheese, salt and pepper; add the milk. 



48 Cookinsf for Two 



t3 



folding it in, then fold in the whites of the eggs, 
beaten dry. Bake in a buttered dish or in cups. Serve 
in the cups with toast or wafers, a green salad or 
canned fruit. 

CHEESE TIMBALES 

I tablespoontul of butter 54 cup of liquid (cream, milk 

1 tablespoonful of flour or white broth) 

14 teaspoonful of salt J4 pound of cheese (grated) 

J4 teaspoonful of paprika 2 whole eggs and i yolk 

Melt the butter; in it cook the flour and season- 
ings, then add the liquid and stir until the sauce boils. 
Add the cheese and the eggs, beaten slightly. Turn 
into buttered timbale moulds, or, one mould of larger 
size. Set the mould or moulds into a pan on several 
folds of paper, surround with boiling water, and let 
cook in the oven until firm in the center. The water 
around the moulds should not boil during the cook- 
ing. Remove from the dish ; let stand two or three 
minutes, then loosen the mixture at the edge of the 
moulds and invert them on a serving dish. Serve with 
a cup of sauce. Use milk, broth or tomato puree, as 
the liquid for the sauce. 

SPAGHETTI CREOLE 

^ cup of spaghetti or maca- }^ pound of round steak 
roni 3 tablespoonfuls of butter 

2 tomatoes J^ cup of grated cheese 
I slice of onion 14 teaspoonful of salt 

Break the spaghetti or macaroni into small pieces ; 
cook these in boiling salted water until tender (See 



Cooking for Two 49 

page 167), then drain and rinse in cold water. Peel 
the tomatoes and with a spoon empty them of seeds. 
Put the tomato pulp over the fire with the slice of 
onion, chopped very fine or grated, and let simmer, 
covered closely, until the macaroni is tender. Chop 
the meat fine ; put it over the fire in a hot frying pan 
and stir while it turns from red to a brown color, then 
at once add it to the tomato and onion ; add also the 
prepared macaroni, the butter, cheese and salt. Mix 
the ingredients by lifting them with a spoon and fork 
(or two forks), letting them stand meanwhile over 
hot water. Serve very hot. Cooked tomatoes 
pressed through a sieve, to exclude seeds, and dried 
or smoked beef (from one- fourth to a scant half 
pound) may be used in place of the fresh tomatoes 
and round steak. 

CHEESE TOAST, WITH BACON 

This dish may be made of any variety of bread, but 
it is particularly good when made of Boston brown 
bread. While the bread is being toasted, melt three 
level tablespoonfuls of butter; cook in it one level 
tablespoonful and a half of flour and one-fourth a 
teaspoonful, each, of salt and paprika; when frothy 
stir in three- fourths a cup of rich milk; stir until 
boiling, then set over hot water and stir in half or 
three-fourths a cup of grated cheese; continue stir- 
ring until the cheese is melted, then pour over the 
toast. A slice of crisp bacon is a good addition to 
each slice of toast. For bacon rolls, roll the bacon. 



50 Cooking for Two 

pass a wooden toothpick through it, then fry in deep 
fat. 

HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES 

6 slices of bread Yz an inch i egg 

thick Vi cup of milk 

Butter Salt 

Grated cheese 

Remove the crust from the bread while trimming 
the slices, piled together, to a uniform size. Cut the 
slices in halves. Spread the bread with butter ; grate 
cheese over the butter, using a"S much as can be pressed 
into the butter; press two pieces of the bread together, 
to form a sandwich, and continue until the six sand- 
wiches are ready. Beat the egg, add the milk and 
salt, and mix all together, in this dip the sandwiches, 
first on one side and then on the other. Melt a little 
butter in a hot frying pan and in it set the sandwiches ; 
when the bread is browned on one side, turn the sand- 
wiches to brown the other side. Serve at once. 



CHEESE RAMEQUINS 

3 tablespoonf uls of melted % cup of fine, soft bread 

butter crumbs 

yi teaspoonful (scant) of salt % pound of grated cheese 

yi teaspoonful (scant) of pap- 2 eggs, well beaten 

rika ii^ cups of milk 

Melt the butter, add the seasonings, crumbs and 
cheese and mix thoroughly. Add the milk to the 
eggs and stir into the first mixture. Turn the mixture 



Cooking for Two 51 

into buttered ramequlns and let bake, surrounded by 
hot water, in a moderate oven. Serve very hot. 

CEREAL WITH CHEESE 

I pint of boiling water ^ cup of Cream of Wheat or 

Yi teaspoonful of salt similar cereal 

J4 pound of grated cheese 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

Put the upper part of a double boiler, holding the 
water and salt, over the fire, and when the water is 
again boiling, stir while sprinkling in the cereal ; let 
cook vigorously five minutes, then set into boiling 
water, cover and let cook about forty minutes; then 
add the butter and the greater part of the cheese, 
beating them in thoroughly. Turn the mixture into 
a pan, rinsed with cold water, to make a thin sheet. 
When cold turn from the pan and cut into squares. 
Butter a serving dish that may be set Into the oven. 
Put squares in the dish, leaving a little space between 
them, to cover the bottom of the dish; sprinkle these 
with cheese, then set other squares above and sprinkle 
with cheese. Set the dish into the oven to make all 
very hot. 

MACARONI BAKED WITH MILK AND CHEESE 

Yi cup of macaroni Salt and pepper 

% to Yi, cup of grated cheese Milk or thin cream 
54 cup or less of butter 

Cook the macaroni, broken in pieces, in boiling, 
salted water until tender; drain, rinse in cold wa:ter 



52 Cooking for Two 

and drain again. Butter a baking dish (suitable for 
the table) ; put in a layer of macaroni, sprinkle 
lightly with salt, pepper, and grated cheese (Swiss, 
Parmesan or common factory) and dot it with bits 
of butter, then put in another layer of macaroni and 
add the other ingredients as before. Pour in rich 
milk, thin cream or skimmed milk mixed with a beaten 
egg, until it nearly covers the macaroni. Bake until 
the cheese is melted or the egg is set. 



CREAMED MACARONI WITH CHEESE AND AU 
GRATIN 

Vi cup of macaroni ^ teaspoonful of pepper 

1^/2 tablespoonfuls of butter J4 cup of milk 

lYz tablespoonfuls of flour J4 cup of grated cheese 
J4 teaspoonful of salt 

Prepare the macaroni as in the preceding recipe. 
Melt the butter; add the flour and seasonings and 
cook until frothy, then add the milk and stir and cook 
until the boiling point is reached ; add the cheese and 
macaroni ; mix by lifting the macaroni with two forks. 
Let stand over hot water until very hot throughout, 
or serve it au grat'in; turn the mixture into a buttered 
baking dish, spread over it one-third a cup of cracker 
crumbs mixed with one tablespoonful and a half of 
melted butter and set the dish into a hot oven to 
brown the crumbs. Tomato puree or stock made of 
beef or veal may replace the milk. 



Cooking for Two 



53 



RICE WITH CHEESE AND TOMATO 



54 cup of rice 
3 cups of cold water 
I cup of tomato puree 
J4 cup of water or broth 
Yi teaspoonful of salt 
J4 green pepper pod 



I small onion 
3 cloves 

1 parsley branch 

Yi^ Xa Yz cup of grated cheese 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 



Put the rice over the fire with the cold water and 
heat quickly to the boiling point ; let boil five minutes, 
drain, rinse in cold water and drain again. To the 
blanched rice add all the other ingredients, save the 
cheese and butter, and let cook till the rice is tender, 
then with two silver forks mix in the cheese and 
butter. Serve as the main dish at luncheon or supper 
or as a vegetable dish, to add to a meagre proteid 
dish. 



MACARONI, ITALIAN STYLE 



Y2 cup of cooked macaroni 
(See page 167 for cooking) 
VY2 tablespoonfuls of butter 
V/i tablespoonfuls of flour 
Y^ teaspoonful of salt 



Y\ teaspoonful of paprika 

Y2 cup of rich broth flavored 

with onion, carrot, etc. 
Ya cup of tomato puree 
J4 cup of grated cheese 



Make a sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings, broth, 
and tomato. To the sauce add the cooked macaroni 
and the cheese; lift the macaroni with a fork and 
spoon to mix the ingredients thoroughly, cover and 
set over hot water to become very hot. 



54 Cooking for Two 

MACARONI CROQUETTES 

y-i cup of macaroni, cooked J4 cup of liquid (milk, cream, 
tender stock or tomato puree) 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter i egg with I tablespoonful of 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour water 

Yi teaspoonful of salt Sifted bread crumbs 

2 tablespoonfuls of cheese 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, salt and liquid; 
add the cheese and the macaroni. Cut the macaroni 
in pieces half an inch long before adding it to the 
sauce. Mix thoroughly and turn into a shallow dish 
to cool. Remove the crust from half a loaf of bread, 
press the bread through a colander and then through 
a fine sieve. Beat the egg with the water. Spread 
some of the crumbs on a meat board. Divide the 
chilled mixture into four or six equal portions. Wet 
the hands, slightly, in cold water and roll each portion 
of the mixture into a ball; put the ball in the bread 
crumbs and roll it under the fingers, to lengthen it a 
little; carefully take up and pat the ends, first one 
and then the other, on the board, to make cylinder 
shape. When all have been shaped, begin with the 
one first shaped, and lift it by running a spatula under 
it lengthwise, dip over it the beaten egg, turn from 
one spatula to another and again dip egg over it, that 
the whole surface may be covered with egg, then roll 
a second time in the crumbs. Have ready a saucepan 
containing hot fat; drop a bread crumb into it and, 
if it browns as you count forty, take out the crumb 
and with a skimmer put into the fat two or three of 



Cooking for Two 55 

the croquettes. Let cook until a golden brown — not 
too dark — then remove with the skimmer to a dish 
on which is laid soft paper. Let stand in the oven 
while the others are cooked. The croquettes will cook 
in about one minute. Serve with or without tomato 
sauce. 



CHAPTER V 

COOKING OF TRUE PROTEIDS CONTINUED: EGGS 

Like woman, when an egg is good, there is nothing better; 
when it is bad, there is nothing worse. — Adolphe Meyer, M. C. A. 

Nine times out of ten, deservedly or undeservedly, 
the market man must bear the odium when the meat 
is tough; for the young housekeeper is often not 
sufficiently posted in buying or cooking meats to lay 
the blame with certainty where it belongs. In the 
spring, however, meat is largely displaced by eggs, 
which are then fresh laid and plentiful. Fresh eggs 
are never disappointing, be they properly cooked; 
for, treated aright, they cannot be tough. Think of 
the wealth of variety in flavor, texture, and appear- 
ance that can be evolved in food by the use of eggs. 
They can be so treated as to give to a dish smooth 
solidity or an airy lightness and sponginess such as a 
breath will mar. They harmonize with savory no 
less than with sweet dishes, and may alike enrich and 
give character to a soup, a salad, or an ice. Verily, 
a certain famous chef was right, when he said that 
" without the aid of eggs the artistic cook would have 
to abandon his profession in despair." 



Cooking for Two 57 

But the use of eggs is by no means restricted to 
enriching or embellishing other dishes: their com- 
position warrants service as the dish of the meal, bulk 
and dilution being provided in less nutritious articles. 

Given fresh eggs, it matters not in what form they 
be presented, as piece de resistance or garnish, and 
they will bear the hall mark of the cook. Properly 
cooked, eggs are never tough. Cooked in the shell 
and at a proper temperature, an egg, though firm 
enough to slice evenly, is a delicate morsel. Eggs, 
thus cooked, with crisp lettuce and well-seasoned 
mayonnaise, are, though frequently served, an ever- 
recurring pleasure to the palate. But how few of us 
know egg-salad at its best ! Too often the white of 
the egg is a shiny elastic substance, elusive of the fork 
that would divide it. Eggs and boiling water should 
not form a continued partnership; for the result is 
always deplorable. On the breakfast table, in early 
spring, what can be more dainty or conducive to appe- 
tite than a fresh egg, carefully poached, and set above 
a round of bread, upon which each wire of the toaster 
is clearly marked on the brown of the otherwise 
evenly toasted surface. We are thinking of perfect 
home-made bread and an egg tender, though firm, 
with its golden heart dimly seen through a thin, filmy, 
veil-like covering. Give a finishing touch to the dish 
with a sprig of fresh, green parsley or cress from the 
near-by brook, just released from the winter's bond- 
age, and the picture is complete, — a symphony in 
color. 



58 Cooking for Two 

Though poached eggs may be varied, by the use of 
salpicon mixtures, purees of meat, fish, or vegetables, 
or by sauces, these would become monotonous in time. 
Lest this happen, let us learn how to make really good 
omelets. 

Much has been said in prose and verse in praise of 
omelets, and many a romantic incident Is centred 
around the making of them. We refer, however, not 
to the light, puffy omelets, such as anybody can evolve, 
but to those subtle, tender, French creations, which 
monks and chefs of " ye olden time " were wont to 
concoct for the delectation of themselves or their for- 
tunate patrons. These knights of the blue ribbon 
(for the term cordon bleu was not restricted to 
women) with dextrous hand are reputed to have 
flipped the tender omelet into perfect shape, and then 
to have tossed It onto the oval dish heated to receive 
it. The modern cook, unable to acquire the knack of 
sliding and tilting the pan to cook the egg evenly and 
delicately, picks up the cooked portion with a fork, 
thus letting the uncooked part touch the surface of 
the hot pan. It was probably in some such crude way 
as this that the Empress Maria Louise was manipu- 
lating the omelet when Napoleon, taking the omelet 
pan from her hand, and in vain attempt to imitate 
the deftness of the great Careme, flipped the omelet 
onto the floor. Chagrined at his failure, he is said 
to have retired, leaving the empress to complete the 
cooking in her own way. 

In making the genuine French omelet, whole eggs 



Cooking for Two 59 

may be used ; but a preponderance of yolks is prefer- 
able. Long beating is neither essential nor desirable : 
yolks and whites are to be simply well broken up and 
mixed. In cooking, great heat is serviceable ; but the 
skill of the cook must be exercised to the end that the 
egg be subjected to it only for an instant. 

Salpicon mixtures (cooked articles in bits, and 
mixed with a sauce) may be folded between or spread 
around an omelet, thus adding to its volume and 
character. 

Omelet pans are made of various metals ; but, all 
things considered, a thin steel pan is the best. Sheet 
iron is often used; but, as it soon warps from heat 
and does not then set level upon the stove, a new one 
is often in requisition. An agate pan, kept specially 
for the purpose, ranks next to steel. 

Nor does egg-cookery end with poached eggs and 
omelets. Custards and souffles, sponge cake and 
eclairs, as also the cup of coffee or consomme, and the 
thin-crusted croquette, are, one and all, good or bad 
according as to whether we have mastered the one 
great point in egg-cookery — temperature. Let us 
then make a careful study of this chapter, remember- 
ing that it is in just such little things as the cooking 
of eggs and the toasting of bread that our skill in 
cookery is shown. 

COMPOSITION OF EGGS 

The egg is another article of food that contains a 
goodly proportion of proteid, which is principally in 



60 



Cooking for Two 



the form of albumin. The white of the egg contains 
a higher proportion of albumin than does the yolk, 
while the yolk contains more fat than does the white. 
The other compounds are water and mineral matter. 
Three-fourths of an egg is water. The one food prin- 
ciple lacking is carbohydrate ; thus foods rich in this 
principle — bread, potatoes, rice, etc. — are the ones 
to be combined with eggs to make a meal complete. 

The shell of the egg is porous; on keeping, the 
water of the egg in composition evaporates, air enters 
to occupy the vacant place, and the egg soon (com- 
paratively) spoils. 



HOW TO TELL THE AGE OF AN EGG 

Placed in the water, the egg, if fresh, will remain 

resting at the bottom of 
the vessel; if not quite 
fresh, it will rest with the 
big end raised higher 
than the small end, and 
the higher the big end is 
raised the older is the 

egg- 

The reason why: As 
an old egg gets older, the 
water contained in the 
white of the egg evapo- 
rates, and this causes the 
empty space at the thick 
end of every egg to become enlarged. The larger 




Cooking for Two 61 

that empty space becomes the more the egg rises In 
the water, till in course of time it floats.^ 



HOW TO BREAK EGGS IN COOKING 

To break an egg, take it in the right hand and 
crack the shell by striking it, — near the centre of one 
side, — upon the edge of a bowl ; put the thumbs 
together at the crack, and gently break the shell apart. 
Take care to strike the egg only just enough to crack 
the shell. The shell of an egg, held in the left hand, 
may be broken by striking it sharply with a knife held 
in the right hand. 

HOW TO SEPARATE THE YOLK FROM THE WHITE 

Hold the egg lengthwise In the hand, over a bowl, 
while breaking the shell apart; turn the contents back 
and forth several times, keeping the yolk In one of the 
half shells, and letting the white slip over the edge 
into the bowl. 

HOW TO STIR, BEAT, AND FOLD INGREDIENTS 

If we put one or more articles, as flour, flour and 
egg, or flour, milk and egg into a bowl and move a 
utensil, like a spoon or fork, steadily round and round 
in the mass, each time in a widening circle, we call 
the process Stirring. 

When we carry the utensil swiftly through a mass 
containing albumin or gluten in such a manner that 

' G. J. Hutchins in " Food and Cookery," London. 



62 Cooking for Two 

a large portion is turned over at each stroke, a quan- 
tity of air, in minute bubbles, is entangled in the elas- 
tic proteid, thus making the mass very light. We call 
this process Beating. 

After an egg, and particularly the white of an egg, 
is beaten, we may wish to incorporate it into other 
ingredients without loss of the air that has been beaten 
into it. To do this, turn the egg into the dish of 
ingredients, put In a spoon edgewise, turn it and lift 
up the ingredients and egg, and turn them over; re- 
peat this until the mass is evenly blended together. 
We call this Folding. The principal articles that we 
wish to fold into others are the whites of eggs, beaten 
dry, and heavy cream, beaten solid. 



BEATING EGGS 

Whites of eggs alone may be beaten more firm than 
whites and yolks together, or yolks alone. Often if 
a small portion of yolk be left in a bowl containing 
several whites, it will be impossible to beat the mass 
to a firm consistency. Whites of eggs cannot be 
beaten dry unless the bowl and beater be perfectly 
dry and clean. 

Slightly Beaten Eggs. For slightly beaten eggs 
the yolks and whites are not separated. Eggs are 
slightly beaten, when a full spoonful can be taken up. 

JVell Beaten Yolks. Yolks are "well beaten," 
when they are light, thick and lemon-colored. 

Whites Beaten Dry. Whites are beaten dry, when 




Poaching Eggs. — Page 04. 




Poached Ei.;gs with Tomatoes and F>acon. — Page 6^. 




Omelet Pans. - — Page 6/. 



Cooking for Two 63 

the mass does not slip from the dish turned upside 
down. 

Utensils for Beating Eggs. A fork, whisk, per- 
forated spoon, or Dover egg beater are the utensils 
commonly used in beating eggs. When whites of 
eggs are beaten dry, the mass will be larger, if it be 
beaten with one of the first three utensils, but it will 
take a longer time to do the work than with the Dover 
egg beater. 

COOKING EGGS 

In our first lesson we noted that albumin was tough- 
ened by a high degree of heat. If you set a saucepan 
of cold water over the fire, put in a thermometer, and 
then break an egg into the water, you can note how 
the consistency of the egg changes as the water heats. 
As a study in the cooking of eggs, it might be worth 
while to cook several eggs, on different occasions, 
transferring them from the water, with a skimmer, 
to a slice of toast, when the thermometer registers 
134°, 160°, 180° and 212° respectively. As far as 
solubility has a bearing on the subject, a raw egg is 
more digestible than one that has been cooked; but 
for other reasons, people in general prefer to have 
the albumin in eggs slightly coagulated by heat. 

EGGS COOKED IN SHELL, SOFT, MEDIUM, ETC. 

( I ) Take a granite ware saucepan, holding rather 

more than one quart. In it heat one quart of water 

to the boiling point, remove the saucepan from the 



64 Cooking for Two 

fire, and lower an egg into it, cover closely and let it 
stand six minutes, for soft-cooked, and eight minutes, 
for medium-cooked eggs. With two eggs let stand 
eight minutes, for soft-cooked, ten minutes, for me- 
dium-cooked, and half an hour, if the eggs are to be 
used in salads, for a garnish, etc. 

(2) Take two saucepans, the same as above. Heat 
the water in each to the boiling point, remove from 
the fire, and lower into one an egg from a refrigera- 
tor, and into the other an egg from the warm room; 
cook as before, six minutes, then compare the con- 
sistency of the two eggs. Why this difference? 

(3) In a similar manner, we could learn that, in 
order to have uniform results, the conditions must not 
vary; i. e., the kind of saucepan, number of eggs in 
a saucepan, the quantity of water, as well as the 
temperature of the eggs, must be the same each time. 

Poached Eggs, and Eggs Removed from the Shell 
and Cooked with White and Yolk Distinct and 
Separate 

POACHED EGGS ON TOAST 

Rub over the bottom of the frying pan with a bit 
of butter, and pour in about a pint of boiling water; 
add half a teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of 
vinegar. Let this stand where the water will keep 
hot, but not boil. Break in two eggs, being careful 
to strike the shell only enough to crack it without 
disturbing the yolk. Let stand, until the eggs are set 



Cooking for Two 65 

on the bottom, then loosen the egg from the pan, by 
carefully pushing beneath it a spatula or griddle-cake 
turner, to avoid too much cooking on the bottom, then 
let stand until delicately cooked throughout. Have 
ready two slices of bread, toasted to a golden brown. 
Wet the edge of each slice in salted, boiling water; 
set these upon the plates, made warm, dot with bits 
of butter, and with a skimmer remove the eggs from 
the pan to the toast. Add a bit of parsley or cress, 
and if desired a dash of black pepper to each, and 
place at once upon the table. 

EGGS POACHED IN CREAM 

Set a small frying pan containing a scant cup of 
thin cream into a dish of boiling water. When the 
cream shows tiny bubbles at the edge, add one-fourth 
a teaspoonful of salt and break in two fresh eggs. 
When the white becomes set a little, separate the eggs 
from the pan with a spatula, and when they are set 
throughout (this can be told by noting the condition 
of the eggs when the pan is gently shaken), remove 
them to two rounds of toast ; pour the cream over the 
whole, and set at once upon the table. 

EGGS "POACHED" IN FAT OR FRIED 

When we remember the low temperature at which 
the albumin in egg is coagulated, it is evident that the 
fat in which an egg is to be cooked need not be very 
hot. Most housekeepers, whether young or old, fry 



66 Cooking for Two 

eggs in too hot fat. Fat that sputters, when an egg 
is broken into it, is much too hot for the purpose. 
OHve oil, as it does not burn until heated to a very 
high temperature, is the best possible medium for 
frying purposes. Care must be exercised in its use, 
for there is no change in its appearance even when 
hot enough to brown any article put into it. Fat tried 
out, at a low degree of heat, from bacon, ham or salt 
pork, carefully poured from the sediment in the pan, 
is a particularly good medium for frying eggs. Break 
the eggs into the fat, and cook in the same manner 
as when poaching in water. If the fat does not cover 
the eggs, dip it over them with a tablespoon. If the- 
fat used in this cooking be at the proper temperature 
and has never been raised to too high a degree of 
heat, the eggs will be discolored no more than when 
poached in water. Serve fried eggs with bacon, ham, 
spinach, etc. 

Eggs Cooked with White and Yolk Mixed 
Scrambled. Omelet {French, Puffy) 
SCRAMBLED EGGS, REFORMED STYLE 
Turn four tablespoonfuls of milk or thin cream 
into an agate frying pan, and add half a teaspoonful 
of salt. Beat four eggs with a silver fork just enough 
to break the yolk thoroughly. Then turn the egg into 
the hot milk. Cook over a gentle fire, stirring as the 
egg thickens, and adding, now and then, a bit of but- 
ter, until two tablespoonfuls have been used. When 



Cooking for Two 67 

lightly set turn on to a hot serving dish and serve at 
once. 



SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH VARIATIONS 

Cooked ingredients, as chicken, ham, smoked 
tongue, sardines or anchovies, chopped or cut in bits, 
peas, asparagus tips, green or red peppers, parsley 
(the two latter chopped fine), small cubes of fried 
bread, and small cubes of hot bacon, may be added 
to eggs before scrambling. Peppers are usually 
cooked in butter until softened, before being added 
to the eggs. 

GENERAL VARIETIES OF OMELET 

Of omelets there are two general varieties — 
French and puffy — these are distinguished by the 
manipulation of the eggs, both in beating and in cook- 
ing. In the French omelet, the eggs are beaten simply 
to mix well the whites and yolks, no attempt being 
made to secure lightness ; in the puffy omelet, all the 
air possible is beaten into the eggs, and the cooking 
is conducted in a manner to retain the air if possible 
to the moment of eating. For a particularly tender 
omelet use a greater number of yolks than of whites. 

FRENCH OMELET 

In making a French omelet, much depends on the 
condition of the pan. The Inner surface needs be so 
smooth that, when the pan is shaken over the fire, the 



68 Cooking for Two 

cooked mixture will slide upon it (forming creases 
where It doubles upon Itself), thus letting the un- 
cooked portion down upon the hot surface. A steel 
pan Is preferable, and should be kept for this purpose 
alone. After using, rinse out thoroughly with hot 
water, and dry and polish with fine, soft tissue paper. 
Small omelets are handled more easily than large 
ones. Beat two eggs and the yolks of two more with 
a kitchen spoon or silver fork, until a full spoonful 
can be taken up. Add one-fourth a teaspoonful of 
salt, three tablespoonfuls of water, and a dash of 
pepper, if desired. Mix thoroughly, then strain Into 
a bowl. Have a tablespoonful of butter melted in 
the omelet-pan. Bring this forward to a hot part of 
the range, let stand a minute, then turn In the egg 
mixture. Shake the pan back and forth with one 
hand, and, with a spatula or thin knife In the other, 
separate the cooked egg from the pan at the edge, so 
that in shaking, the uncooked egg may at this point 
run down on to the hot pan. Raise the side of the 
pan next the handle, In shaking forward, and lower 
it, when the pan is brought back. When nearly 
creamy throughout, roll the omelet, let stand a 
moment to color a little, then turn on to a hot serving- 
dish. A bit of butter, added at the last moment, will 
aid In giving color to the omelet. 

PUFFY OMELET FOR TWO 

Beat the yolks of four eggs until thick and lemon- 
colored ; add a dash of pepper, one-fourth a teaspoon- 



Cooking for Two 69 

ful of salt, and three tablespoonfuls of water. Beat 
the whites of two eggs until dry, then turn the yolks 
over the whites, and fold the two together. Have a 
tablespoonful of butter melted in the omelet pan; 
turn in the mixture, spreading it evenly over the pan. 
Let the pan stand, where there is moderate heat, 
about two minutes, then set it into an oven of moder- 
ate heat, to " set " the egg throughout. When a knife 
or spatula, thrust down in the centre of the omelet, 
can be removed without uncooked egg adhering to 
it, the omelet is done. Remove at once from the oven ; 
score the centre of the top at right angles to the 
handle of the pan, fold at the scoring, and turn on to 
a hot platter. Much beating of eggs — as in the 
puffy omelet — especially if the number of yolks does 
not exceed the number of whites, causes dryness in 
the finished product. For this reason, a sauce of 
some kind improves a puffy omelet. Half or three- 
fourths a cup of tomato sauce poured around the 
foregoing omelet, after it is turned upon the platter, 
makes it much more acceptable. The two extra yolks 
may be omitted. 

PUFFY OMELET WITH LEFT OVERS 

One-fourth a cup — or even less — of cold, cooked 
peas, string beans, asparagus tips, mushrooms, 
chicken, ham, fish, oysters, lobster, etc., stirred into 
cream, tomato, or Bechamel sauce, are all admissible 
for adding flavor and juiciness, as well as bulk, to 
a puffy omelet. 



70 Cooking for Two 

COOKING A PUFFY OMELET ON THE GAS RANGE 
On account of the air beaten into the eggs, a puffy 
omelet presents a braver appearance than does the 
French omelet, made of the same number of eggs; 
also the " knack " of making it successfully is easily 
acquired. But if the oven be not heated for some 
other purpose, it seems wasteful to heat the oven. To 
obviate heating the oven, manage in this way : Two 
stove " lids " are required. When the omelet is set, 
place the lid over the pan, which should not be too 
shallow, letting it rest on the edge of the pan, then 
set the other lid over the fire with the omelet upon it. 
Do not have the upper " lid " too hot. 

QUESTIONS 

1. The shell of an egg is porous. How does this 
occasion the spoiling of eggs? 

2. Why are eggs packed with the small end down- 
ward? 

3 . Why can the freshness of an egg be determined 
by shaking it? 

4. If tenderness be desired in a product (as dough- 
nuts, cookies, etc. ) , should whites or yolks of eggs 
predominate in the mixture? Why? 

5. Why is a larger number of yolks than of whites 
preferable in omelets and custards ? 

6. How may eggs broken into cups be poached in 
the oven and avoid overheat? 

7. Should you add uncooked ingredients to an 
omelet? 



Cooking for Two 71 

ADDITIONAL RECIPES FOR COOKING EGGS 

EGGS WITH CREAM IN RAMEQUINS 

Butter ramequins holding one, two or three eggs 
as desired. For three eggs scald a scant half a cup of 
thin cream or rich milk. Scald the milk in the rame- 
quin or use a saucepan and turn the milk into the 
ramequin. Break in three eggs, sprinkle a few grains 
of salt over the whites and set the dish into a moder- 
ate oven. If the dish is raised on little feet from the 
bottom of the oven, it may go directly into the oven. 
A ramequin, like the one shown in the illustration, 
holding three eggs, should be surrounded with hot 
water during the cooking. When the egg begins to 
set, sprinkle the surface with grated cheese and return 
to the oven to finish cooking. 

A LATE -SUMMER BREAKFAST DISH 

Peel three tomatoes, and cut out the hard piece 
around the stem end. Set in a well-oiled broiler, and 
cook over a rather dull fire until hot throughout, turn- 
ing often to avoid burning. Dispose on a serving- 
dish. Set above each two pieces of tomato, an egg 
carefully poached in salted water, and dispose a slice 
of broiled bacon above and below the eggs. If pre- 
ferred, the tomatoes may be cooked in the oven. 

POACHED EGGS WITH ASPARAGUS 
Have ready a small bunch of hot, boiled asparagus 
(See page 174) and two or three slices of toast. 



72 Cooking for Two 

Dispose the asparagus on the toast with the heads all 
the same way. Over the asparagus pour three- fourths 
a cup of white, Bechamel or drawn butter sauce and 
set an egg carefully poached in water above. For 
variety substitute cooked celery (stalks, cut in inch 
lengths), peas, string beans, chicken, fish, etc., for the 
asparagus. All of these should be stirred into the 
sauce and then set in place on the toast. 

EGGS WITH SPINACH PUREE 

(Serve with bread or rolls at Breakfast or Luncheon) 

Chop fine and press through a sieve half a cup of 
cooked spinach. Season to taste with salt, pepper, 
butter, and a dash of lemon juice. When thoroughly 
mixed and hot, use to line buttered egg-dishes or 
small casseroles. Break into each nest a fresh egg, 
sprinkle the whites of the eggs with a 'few grains of 
salt, and set to cook in a moderate oven. Serve when 
the egg is " set." 



CHAPTER VI 

COOKING OF TRUE PROTEIDS CONTINUED: FISH 

Fish is neither palatable nor wholesome unless it 
be well cooked; it is cooked enough when the flesh 
will separate easily from the bones. When this condi- 
tion is reached, the coagulation of the nitrogenous 
juices has been carried far enough and the fibers — 
under proper conditions of moisture — are reduced 
to a gelatinous consistency. The fibers of all varie- 
ties of fish being short, the flesh is always tender. The 
varieties that are deficient in fat, halibut, cod, had- 
dock, bass, pickerel, etc. (we do not refer to shell 
fish) , are easily digested. The main thing that claims 
our attention in the cooking of fish is the coagulation 
of the nitrogenous juices with as little loss of these 
juices as possible. When fish has been cooked in 
water, the water should be used or the process is 
extremely wasteful. 

PREPARATION OF FISH FOR COOKING 

Slices of fish require but little attention; wipe them 
with a damp cloth or let cold water from the faucet 
run over them, then wipe dry. Whole fish, even when 



74 Cooking for Two 

cleaned at the market, will need more scrupulous care ; 
wash thoroughly inside and out, then if any blood re- 
mains on the inside along the backbone, wash again 
and wipe dry. To skin, remove the head and cut down 
both sides of the fins, on the back, the entire length of 
the fish. Pull off this strip, loosen the skin below the 
head and pull it off, first on one side and then on the 
other. Then with a sharp knife scrape the flesh from 
the bones and nothing unedible will remain on the 
flesh. 

BROILED FISH 

Any fish that presents, when dressed, a thin flat 
appearance, as mackerel, bass, or bluefish, or a fish 
that may be cut in slices, as halibut, salmon or sword 
fish, may be broiled. While all the fish mentioned 
may be broiled, preference would be given to an oily 
fish as it is not easy to baste a fish while broiling, and a 
dry fish can ill afford to lose any of its juices. Mack- 
erel, salmon, and bluefish are especially good for 
broiling. A whole mackerel, but slices of salmon and 
bluefish should be purchased. Sometimes it is possible 
to buy half a bluefish, cut lengthwise of the fish. 
Half a four-pound fish may not be too much for two, 
as the portion left over makes a most palatable salad. 

BROILED BLUEFISH 

Heat the broiler and rub over the wires on the 
inside with a piece of fat salt pork. Set the fish in 
place, and the broiler over the coals or under the gas 



Cooking for Two 75 

flame, with the flesh side towards the heat and rather 
close to it. After a few seconds, less than a minute, 
draw the broiler farther from the fire, to finish the 
cooking. Over the coals turn the broiler, occasionally, 
to cook the skin side of the fish. As the skin burns 
easily the cooking must be done, largely, on the flesh 
side. Whenever the flesh side is to be turned to the 
coals, brush it over with a little melted butter. Cook 
from fifteen to twenty minutes. When the fish is 
cooked, remove the broiler to a zinc-covered table or 
board (a labor-saving article the value of which in 
a kitchen can scarcely be estimated) or to a large 
agate or tin dish, then press the back of a four- 
pronged fork down upon the fish in such a manner 
that two prongs of the fork will be on either side of 
a wire of the broiler, now gently draw the fork down 
the wire the full width of the fish, thus separating 
the flesh from the wire of the broiler; repeat this 
with each wire on one side, then turn the broiler and 
repeat on the other side, when the fish may be slipped 
— skin side down — from the broiler to a platter 
made hot to receive it. Spread the fish with maitre 
d'hotel butter and serve at once. 

BROILED HALIBUT OR OTHER SLICED FISH 
Heat and oil the broiler as above ; brush over both 
sides of the halibut with butter or salt pork fat, then 
set in place in the broiler ; cook ten seconds and turn ; 
repeat this for three or four minutes, then baste with 
fat and draw farther from the fire and let cook about 



76 Cooking for Two 

fifteen minutes, turning each three or four minutes. 
Use a four-tined fork to separate the fish from the 
broiler (see preceding recipe) and slide to a hot plat- 
ter. Spread with maitre d'hotel butter (page 196) 
and serve at once. 

FRIED FILLETS OF FISH 

Have thin pieces of fish freed from fat and bone; 
season with salt and pepper if approved and, if the 
flavor be agreeable, rub each fillet with the cut side 
of an onion. Have ready sifted bread crumbs from 
the center of a loaf of bread, and an egg beaten and 
diluted with two tablespoonfuls of water; dip the 
pieces of fish in the egg, then in the crumbs, to cover 
them completely, then shake off superfluous crumbs. 
Dip a frying basket into a kettle of hot fat, set it on 
a tin plate and in it dispose two or four pieces of fish; 
lower the basket into the hot fat, of which there 
should be enough to cover the fish, and let cook from 
three to six minutes. If the fish be not rolled, three 
or four minutes of cooking will be enough. Rolled 
fillets will take from four to six minutes. 

TESTING FAT FOR FRYING 

When the bowl (a Scotch bowl costing about 35c. 
is thdi best shaped and most durable utensil that can be 
had for frying) of fat has been over the fire for a 
little time after it has melted, drop in a crumb of 
bread; if the bread browns on one side while you 



Cooking for Two 77 

count thirty as the clock ticks, it is of the right tem- 
perature for the fish. When the fish is cooked, let 
it drain in the basket, then remove it to a tin plate 
covered with tissue or blotting paper. Let stand at 
the door of the oven a moment, then serve. Do not 
let the pieces of fish touch each other, either in the 
basket or while draining on the paper, or they will 
lose their crispness. Fish may be fried in batter after 
the same manner as in egg and crumbs. The fish may 
be more easily covered with batter than with crumbs. 
Small fish, as brook trout and smelt, may be fried in 
the same manner. They will be cooked through when 
of a good golden color. 

FISH FRIED IN BATTER 

Season the pieces of fish as above ; have them flat 
or roll them, turban shape, and run through each a 
wooden toothpick, dipped in melted butter, that it 
may be easily removed. Immerse the fish in batter, 
drain by holding it on a fork, and lower it into the 
fat, with or without a basket. Let cook from three 
to six minutes, or until nicely browned, then drain and 
serve. With fat at the proper temperature no appre- 
ciable fat will be absorbed. 

SAUTED FISH. HALIBUT 
A small slice of halibut or fillets of a white fish, 
bass or pickerel, or small whole fish, as brook trout 
and smelts, may be sauted. Wash a slice of halibut 



78 Cooking for Two 

and wipe it carefully. Dredge a board with Indian 
meal or white flour and shake on a little salt, then 
lay the slice of fish in the mixture ; pat it a little, that 
it may take up the flour or meal and salt, then turn 
it over, that the other side may be covered in the same 
manner. Have ready a frying pan of such width that 
it will take the full length of the slice of fish ; in this 
cook a slice of fat salt pork until the fat is well tried 
out; put in the fish and let cook over a steady fire 
until well browned on one side, then turn the fish and 
brown the other side. The fire must not be too hot, 
or the fish will be burned. If it is not hot enough, the 
nitrogenous juices will run from the fish, and the slice 
will not hold together. Properly cooked the fat will 
not be absorbed, and the fish may be easily turned 
and lifted from the frying pan in perfect shape. 

SAUTED BROOK TROUT 

Clean the fish by slitting them open in front, after 
the heads have been removed. After all have been 
cleaned, dip the fingers in salt and take hold of the 
top of the back bone with the left hand, then with a 
knife in the right hand separate the backbone and 
small bones attached to it from the flesh, by scraping 
or pushing the flesh from the bones. Wash in salted 
water, dry on a cloth, then roll in Indian meal, to 
which a little salt has been added; lay side by side 
in a frying pan, containing hot salt pork fat to cover 
the bottom of the dish; let brown on one side and 
then turn, to brown the other side. Properly cooked 



Cooking for Two 79 

these will absorb no appreciable fat. Smelts may be 
cooked in the same way, though these are quite. as 
often egged-and-crumbed and cooked in deep fat. 
The bones are not always removed, as they can be 
easily taken out after cooking. 



SLICE OF SALMON, BOILED 

Butter a piece of cloth large enough to take a slice 
of salmon; tie the cloth securely at the corners and 
lower it into a saucepan containing enough lukewarm 
water to cover the fish; add a teaspoonful of salt, 
cover the saucepan, and heat quickly to the boiling 
point, then let cook six or eight minutes. Lift up the 
cloth with a fork under the knot ; let drain well, then 
remove to a tin plate, untie the knot and turn the fish 
on to a hot, folded napkin, set on a hot plate. Cook 
other fish in the same manner, the time of cooking 
depending upon the thickness of the fish. A thick 
piece of salmon weighing two or three pounds should 
be cooked nearly half an hour. Serve with boiled 
potatoes and egg or caper sauce. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES FOR COOKING FISH 

From June to January black bass and pickerel 
abound in most of our inland ponds and small lakes. 
You or the other member of your family may enjoy 
fishing for them, and as they well deserve careful 
cooking we will notice them first. 



80 Cooking for Two 

FRIED PICKEREL 

Remove the head and tail from the fish; with a 
sharp, pointed knife cut down the entire length of 
the front and empty the contents; cut off the fins, 
and with the back of the knife and the fingers work 
out the backbone and the small bones attached to it; 
cut the flesh down through the center of the back, then 
with the back of the knife push the flesh from the skin, 
thus making two long fillets. Leave these whole, or 
cut them in two or three pieces, each, according to 
the size of the fish. Lay them in an agate or earthen 
dish, pour over them one or two tablespoonfuls of 
oil and a tablespoonful of vinegar; sprinkle them 
with slices of onion and parsley branches, cover and 
set aside in a cool place for an hour or two, or until 
the next morning. Drain the slices, roll them in 
flour, season with salt and pepper, and set into a fry- 
ing pan containing two or three tablespoonfuls of hot 
fat. Fat tried out of salt pork is particularly good 
for this purpose. Cook over a brisk fire until 
browned on one side, then turn and brown the other 
side. The fillets may also be egged-and-crumbed, and 
fried about five minutes in deep fat. They may, also, 
be baked in the oven, by the recipes given for cooking 
black bass. Serve with sliced tomatoes, or cucumbers, 
or with tomato sauce. 

TOMATO SAUCE FOR FRIED PICKEREL 

Cook a cup and a half of stewed or fresh tomato, 
half a green pepper pod, and half an onion, each 




x^ 



I^ILLETS OF r.LACK P>ASS WITH TIrEAD DRESSING. 

Cl'CL'Mr.ER Salad, — Page S2. 




Fresh Fish en Casserole. — Page -M. 




Fresh Codfish, Broiled. — Page Sj. 




Halibut Stkak. — Fag^ ^"5. 




Rolled Fillkts of Black Bass. — Page Ss 




Truffled Vish "Mousse. — Page qi. 



Cooking for Two 81 

sliced fine, also a bit of lean ham if at hand, ten or 
fifteen minutes, then strain and use the puree with 
two level tablespoonfuls, each, of butter and flour, in 
making a sauce. Season with salt and pepper as 
needed. 

FILLETS OF BLACK BASS. WITH BREAD STUFFING 

Remove the head of the fish ; with a sharp-pointed 
knife cut through the entire length of the fish under- 
neath, and thus empty the contents ; cut the fish down 
the entire length of the back on both sides of the fins 
and take out this strip ; loosen the skin all around the 
edge on one side of the fish, rub the fingers of the 
right hand in salt, — if they are damp the salt will 
stick to them, — then pull the skin from the side of 
the fish made ready. If at any place it does not 
separate from the flesh, push it with the knife. Re- 
move the skin from the other side in the same way. 
Then commencing at the top push and scrape the 
flesh from the bones, keeping the flesh on each side 
as whole as possible. Wash and break up the bones, 
and put them in a saucepan over the fire, with cold 
water to cover; add two slices of onion, four of 
carrot and a sprig of parsley and let simmer an hour 
or longer. Wash the two fillets of fish and dry them 
on a cloth. Put some bits of butter (about a table- 
spoonful) in an earthen baking dish; on these lay a 
slice of the bass, put on this a layer of bread dressing, 
and above this the other fillet of fish; dot it with 
bits of butter, or strips of salt pork, and set into a 



82 Cooking for Two 

hot oven. Bake about twenty-five minutes, reducing 
the heat after five or six minutes. Baste with some 
of the fish broth, in which a little butter has been 
melted, every six minutes. Just before the fish is 
baked, spread half a cup of cracker crumbs mixed 
with three level tablespoonfuls of melted butter over 
the top of the fish and return to the oven, to brown 
the crumbs. For the sauce melt two tablespoonfuls 
of butter ; in it cook two level tablespoonfuls of flour 
and one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of salt and pa- 
prika, then add three-fourths a cup of fish stock and 
one-fourth a cup of cream. Stir until boiling, then 
beat in a tablespoonful of butter. Serve cucumbers, 
French pickle or Philadelphia Relish at the same 
time. Two slices of halibut may be cooked in the 
same way. 

BREAD STUFFING FOR BLACK BASS OR OTHER 

FISH 

Pass enough bread, freed from crust, through a 
colander to fill a cup; mix with this two, crushed, 
sage leaves, a bit of thyme or sweet marjoram, one- 
fourth a teaspoonful, each, of salt and pepper and 
one-third a cup of melted butter. 

CUCUMBERS TO SERVE WITH FISH 

Let the cucumbers stand an hour or more in very 

cold or ice water. Remove the skin with a handy 

slicer, to give a channeled effect, and cut in thin, even 

slices. For one medium-sized cucumber rub over the 



Cooking for Two 83 

salad dish with the cut side of a clove of garlic; put 
into a bowl three tablespoon fuls of oil, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, and one-fourth a teaspoonful, 
each, of salt, pepper and onion juice; beat with a 
fork until thoroughly mixed, then pour over the cu- 
cumber slices disposed in a circle in the dish. 

PHILADELPHIA RELISH 

Chop very fine enough crisp cabbage to make a 
pint; chop very fine, also, two mild green or red 
peppers and mix the two thoroughly together, then 
set aside (covered) in a cool place until ready to use. 
Note that both peppers and cabbage are to be 
chopped exceedingly fine, as fine as it is possible to 
chop them. Mix together thoroughly one teaspoon- 
ful of celery seed, one-fourth a teaspoonful of mus- 
tard seed, half a teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth a 
cup of brown sugar and one-fourth a cup of vinegar, 
and let stand some time. When ready to serve mix 
the two together. This perhaps is not too much to 
prepare at once, as it is good, if kept chilled, as long 
as it lasts. Lemon skins (either whole or in halves) 
carefully freed from pulp, and with a thin slice cut 
from one end, to make them stand level, are often 
used as a receptacle for this relish. 

ROLLED FILLETS OF BASS, BAKED 

Remove the flesh from the bass in two fillets ( as is 
described in the preceding recipe). Put the fillets in 



84 Cooking for Two 

a dish, squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon, 
put slices of onion between, and set them aside in a 
cool place until ready to cook. Then roll the fillets, 
separately and loosely, into turban shapes, put bits of 
salt pork over them, and set to cook in a hot oven. 
After four or five minutes baste with salt pork fat 
and reduce the heat. Let cook about twenty minutes, 
basting five times. Leave two tablespoonfuls of the 
fat in the pan after the fish has been taken out; add 
to this two tablespoonfuls of flour and one-fourth a 
teaspoonful, each, of salt and pepper, and cook until 
frothy, then add a cup of broth made from the bones, 
bits of onion, parsley and a few slices of carrot, and 
cook until boiling. Add two tablespoonfuls of capers 
or fine-chopped cucumber pickles. Serve in a fish boat 
or bowl. 

FISH BAKED IN CREAM OR MILK 

A slice of halibut or fillets of bass or pickerel are 
particularly good baked and basted during the baking 
with cream or milk. Use an earthen baking dish. A 
particularly good dish, (sarraguemines ware), brown 
outside and white inside, is shown in the illustration 
of " Rolled Fillets of Black Bass." Rub over the 
bottom of the dish with butter; lay in the fish, put in 
a few thin slices of onion and pour in thin cream 
(milk will do) to nearly cover the fish. Let cook 
about fifteen minutes. Baste once or twice with the 
cream. Salt when nearly cooked. Do not have the 
oven too hot. 



Cooking for Two 85 

CREAMED FISH IN SHELLS, POTATO BORDER 

(Luncheon or Supper, or course at Dinner) 

Cook a pound of fresh haddock in a cup of water, 
to which a slice of onion and a tablespoonful of lemon 
juice have been added. Remove from the liquid, when 
the flesh separates easily from the bones, or in about 
ten minutes. Discard the skin and bones, and sepa- 
rate the fish into flakes. Use the liquid in which the 
fish was cooked, with one-fourth the measure of 
cream, in making a cup of white sauce. Allow a cup 
of sauce for each generous cup of the fish. Mix part 
of the sauce with the fish, and dispose it in buttered 
scallop shells. Spread a little more sauce over the 
top, then pipe mashed potatoes around the edge of 
the shells. Brush the potato with the yolk of an egg, 
beaten and mixed with a tablespoonful of milk, and 
set the shells in the oven to brown the edges of the 
potato. Serve at once with a slice of hard-cooked 
egg or a hot poached egg in the center of each. 

Brushing the potato with the beaten yolk of egg is 
used mainly with an eye to the appearance of the 
dish ; thus treated the potato will brown more quickly 
(yolk of egg is quickly affected by heat), but of 
course it may be omitted. This dish need not neces- 
sarily be made from fish cooked for the purpose. It 
is a particularly good way in which to use " left over 
fish." 

FRESH CODFISH, BROILED 

In ordering the codfish ask the dealer to remove 
the backbone. Heat the broiler very hot, oil it thor- 



86 Cooking for Two 

oughly, lay the fish upon it and let cook from fifteen 
to twenty minutes, the greater part of the time upon 
the flesh side, but turning several times and basting 
it with butter. When thoroughly cooked carefully 
loosen from the broiler and slide on to a hot platter ; 
sprinkle with salt and spread over it the following 
butter. 

RED PEPPER BUTTER 

Beat one-fourth a cup of butter to a cream ; gradu- 
ally beat into it the pulp from cooked red peppers, 
scraped from the skin and seeds, to give the color 
and flavor desired. Finish with a tablespoonful of 
■ lemon juice, added a few drops at a time. For the dish 
shown in the illustration, chilli peppers, the length 
of the finger, were used. These come put up in small 
bottles, imported from England. They are of good 
flavor and may be used in preparing anchovy sand- 
wiches or canapes, tomato sauce, rechauffes of meat 
or fish, or in Philadelphia relish or other recipes, 
where green peppers are called for. 

SALMON STEAK, BAKED 
Select a slice from near the middle of the salmon. 
Have it cut about three-fourths an inch thick. Such 
a slice will weigh from half to three-quarters of a 
pound. Butter an agate pan, lay the steak upon it, 
and pour around about half a cup of boiling water, 
to which a teaspoonful of lemon juice or vinegar and 
a scant half teaspoonful of salt have been added. 
Butter a piece of waxed paper and lay over the fish. 



Cooking for Two 87 

Set the pan directly over the fire and let stand until 
the water boils, then cook in the oven ten minutes. 
In the meantime, pare three or four large, round 
potatoes, and with a French scoop cut from them as 
many balls as possible. Put these over the fire, in 
boiling, salted water, to cook till tender. Melt a 
tablespoonful and a half of butter; in this cook a 
tablespoonful and a half of flour, then add half a 
cup of water and the liquid in the fish-pan and let 
cook until boiling. Set the fish on a platter with the 
potatoes, drained and rolled in the pan with a table- 
spoonful of butter and half a teaspoonful of salt. 
Put two slices of lemon at the base of the fish, and 
sprinkle the whole with fine-chopped parsley. Serve 
the sauce in a bowl. 

FINNAN HADDIE, "BOILED" 

Select a thick fish. Take half of it. Put flesh side 
down in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and set 
to cook on the back of the range. In about half an 
hour draw to a hotter part of the range, and grad- 
ually heat the water to the simmering-point. Let 
simmer from five to ten minutes, then drain the fish 
carefully. Serve on a hot platter. Pass at the same 
time hot, boiled potatoes and egg sauce. 

FINNAN HADDIE, DELMONICO STYLE 

Prepare the fish as above, then separate the flesh 
into flakes, discarding skin and bones. For each cup 
of fish prepare a cup of cream sauce ; i. e., melt two 



88 Cooking for Two 

tablespoonfuls of butter, cook in it two level table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of 
salt and pepper, and gradually add one cup of milk. 
Reheat the fish in the sauce. To serve au gratin, put 
the fish and sauce into a buttered au gratin dish, in 
alternate layers, having the last layer of sauce. Cover 
with cracker crumbs (one-third a cup to three table- 
spoonfuls of butter) mixed with melted butter, and 
set into a hot oven, to brown the crumbs. 

FRESH FISH EN CASSEROLE 

Any fish from which pieces about three Inches 
square may be taken can be used for this dish. 
Salmon, cod, haddock and halibut are all available 
in most markets. Remove all skin and bone from the 
fish ; put these over the fire in cold water to cover and 
let simmer. Meanwhile peel four small onions, cover 
with cold water and let boil ten minutes, then drain 
and add to the saucepan of fish trimmings to cook 
for an hour, or until nearly tender. Peel four pota- 
toes and cut them in quarters, lengthwise. Cover 
with boiling water and let boil three minutes, then 
drain, rinse in cold water and drain again. Put the 
pieces of fish, of which there should be a pound or 
more, into the casserole, add the onions and the pota- 
toes, a teaspoonful of salt and a dash of black pepper 
and strain the fish broth over the whole. A carrot, 
cut in quarters or slices, according to size, cooked 
half an hour and drained, may also be added. Cover 
and let cook half an hour. 



Cooking for Two 89 

FRESH FISH-BALLS 

With a silver fork pick remnants of cooked fish 
into bits and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Pass 
through a vegetable ricer a few hot, boiled potatoes; 
to those add a little fish sauce, if at hand, or cream or 
butter, also salt and pepper, and beat as for mashed 
potato. To the fish add just enough of the hot potato 
to hold the fish together. Shape the mixture into 
balls ; roll these in fine crumbs, then cover them with 
an egg, beaten and diluted with its bulk of milk or 
water, and again roll them in crumbs. Fry in deep 
fat; serve with Philadelphia relish or tomato catsup. 

SALT CODFISH, CREAMED 

1 cup of fish, flaked lyi tablespoonfuls of flour 
54 cup of milk I egg 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

Let the flaked or picked fish stand in cold water 
several hours or over night. Let heat gradually in 
the water. When the fish begins to shrink, drain 
and turn into a sauce made of the butter, flour and 
milk. An egg beaten slightly and another table- 
spoonful of butter (one or both) may be added at 
the last. Do not let the mixture boil after the egg 
is added. Stir constantly until the egg thickens the 
sauce a little. 

SALT MACKEREL COOKED IN MILK 

Let a mackerel lie, flesh side down, overnight in 
cold water. In the morning drain and dispose in an 



90 Cooking for Two 

agate pan where it will lie flat; cover to the depth 
of one-fourth an inch with fresh, sweet milk and let 
simmer very gently, on the back of the range or in 
the oven, about twenty minutes. Serve with plain 
boiled or baked potatoes. 

Often half a large mackerel will prove better than 
the whole of a small one. Left over bits of the fish 
are good in a potato salad or with yolks of eggs as 
a sandwich filling. 

SHAD OR OTHER FISH ROE BAKED IN TOMATO 

SAUCE 

Cut fine a small onion and a green or red pepper 
and cook in two tablespoonfuls of butter until soft- 
ened and yellowed, then skim from the butter and 
sprinkle over the bottom of an au gratin dish. Above 
the vegetables set two fresh shad roe. Have ready 
a cup of hot tomato sauce; pour this over the roe 
and set the dish into the oven. Let bake about half 
an hour. Baste four or five times with the sauce, as 
roe is proverbially dry. Serve in the baking dish. 
White or brown sauce may replace the tomato. 

FISH MOUSSE 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter The white of i egg, beaten dry 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour Yz cup of double cream 

Ya, teaspoonful of salt Yi teaspoonful of salt 

Yir teaspoonful of pepper The yolks of 2 eggs 

ij4 cups of fish broth 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

Yi cup of raw halibut i teaspoonful of lemon juice 

The white of i egg, unbeaten 



Cooking for Two 91 

About half a pound of fish will be needed. Re- 
move skin and bone; to these add a slice of onion 
with two cloves pressed into it, four slices of carrot, 
a branch of parsley and cold water to cover the whole. 
Let simmer an hour, then strain off the liquid. To 
the broth add milk as needed to make one cup and a 
half in all. Use this liquid with the butter, flour and 
seasonings in making a sauce. Cool one- fourth a cup 
of the sauce and keep the rest hot to serve with the 
mousse. Pound the fish, with a pestle, to a smooth 
paste. Measure out half a cup of the fish ; to this add 
the white of one egg and the one-fourth a cup of 
sauce and pound again. When all is smooth, press 
through a gravy strainer set in part of a double boiler. 
To the fish mixture add the salt and then fold in the 
beaten white of egg and the beaten cream. Have 
ready four moulds thoroughly buttered and if wished 
decorated with figures cut from slices of truffle. Fill 
the moulds with the mixture. Set them on many 
folds of paper in a dish, pour in boiling water to 
reach to half the height of the moulds. Let cook in 
a moderate oven till firm in the center. The water 
should not boil during the cooking. When done re- 
move the moulds from the water, let stand a few 
minutes, then loosen around the edge of the mould 
and turn upon a serving dish. Surround with the 
sauce, to which the yolks of the eggs, beaten into two 
tablespoonfuls of butter and the lemon juice, have 
been stirred. 



92 Cooking for Two 

FRESH FISH CHOWDER 

A fish weighing about 2 pounds 2 oz. of fat salt pork 

or about a pound of sliced i to i^ cups sliced potatoes 

fish I pint of hot milk 

^2 an onion Salt and pepper 



This dish is at its best when made of a whole fish, 
as the broth is richer when it contains the gelatinous 
matter from the bones. Fresh water bass and pickerel 
or cod and haddock from the salt water are all suit- 
able. Skin and bones should be removed, to leave 
the fish in a solid piece, or pieces; cut the fish into 
pieces about two inches long and set aside. Cover 
the head and bones with cold water, heat slowly to 
the boiling point, then let simmer an hour or more. 
Cut the pork into quarter-inch cubes, and try out the 
fat; add the onion, sliced, and let cook until delicately 
browned; strain the water from the bones over the 
contents of the frying pan and let simmer a few 
moments, then strain this over the pieces of fish. Put 
the potatoes over the fire in cold water to cover; let 
heat quickly to the boiling point and boll three min- 
utes; drain, rinse in cold water and add to the fish; 
cover and let cook about ten minutes or until the 
potatoes are tender. Add the hot milk and season- 
ings. 



CHAPTER VII 

COOKING OF TRUE PROTEIDS CONTINUED: MEAT 

We know that some cooked meat is tender and 
some so tough that it seems impossible to divide it 
with the teeth. We also know that some pieces of 
meat, naturally tough, may become tender if cooked 
in certain ways rather than in others, as a piece of 
round steak may be tough when broiled, and tender 
if braised or stewei To know how to select tender 
cuts of meat, or to choose the method of cooking 
adapted to give the best results with the cuts at hand, 
one must know the situation, structure and use of the 
various parts of the creatures used for food. How- 
ever, at this time we shall consider the subject only 
in the most general way. 

Outside of game, we use for food, under the terms 
beef, veal, mutton, lamb, pork and poultry, the flesh 
of beeves, calves, sheep, lambs, swine and fowl. The 
general structure of all these is the same, viz. : a 
frame work of bone, encasing and protecting the vital 
organs, padded on the outside with fat and muscle 
or lean meat. This lean meat (muscle), rather than 
bone or fat, is the portion that interests us principally. 



94 Cooking for Two 

Perhaps we can best understand the construction of 
lean meat, if we observe, first, a whole joint of meat, 
as a shank of beef. 

In structure the muscle seems to be composed 
of layers and bundles of small fibers; these, under the 
microscope, are shown to be tubes filled with matter 
in solution. The walls of these tubes are elastic al- 
buminoid, and the contents, water holding in solution 
proteids, salts and extractives; these last give the 
characteristic flavor to the different varieties of meat. 
The fibers or tubes are covered and bound together 
by a very fine network of white connective tissue ; the 
quantity of tissue varies with the length of the muscle 
fibers, long fibers needing more tissue to hold them in 
place than short fibers. In the breast of chicken, 
where the fibers are short, there is but little connective 
tissue. Connective tissue is largely made up of colla- 
gen, which, containing nitrogen and thus classed as a 
proteid, differs from true proteid in that it is softened 
by high heat, in the presence of moisture, and becomes 
gelatine. 

In cooking meat we wish ( i ) to coagulate the 
proteids in solution in the tubes, and (2) to loosen 
the fibers, that they may fall apart easily, by chan- 
ging the connective tissue, which holds them together, 
into gelatine. 

We know that use strengthens muscle and makes 
it firmer; and we are wont to associate strength and 
firmness with the connective tissue; thus age and 
work thicken and harden connective tissue and render 



Cooking for Two 95 

the process of loosening the fibers difficult. We 
would, then, expect to find tough flesh in the neck and 
leg of an ox, and would not choose cuts from these 
portions of a creature, when quick Cooking is essential. 
The upper, back portion of four-footed creatures con- 
tains the tenderest meat and the least bone. 

TO PREPARE MEAT FOR COOKING 

Fprmerly it was necessary to remove meat from the 
wrappings the instant it was received, as the paper 
absorbed the juices of the meat. If the meat be first 
surrounded with waxed paper, this point is not essen- 
tial. Store in a cool place till the moment of cook- 
ing, then wipe exposed surfaces with a damp cloth. 
Remove unsightly or bloody portions. 

COOKING TENDER MEAT 

From what has been said, it will be seen that tender 
meat contains but little connective tissue. The object 
in cooking is simply to coagulate the proteid substance 
in the tubes. This coagulation, we know, takes place 
at a temperature between 134 and 180° F. One 
thing must be looked out for during the time of this 
coagulation. When the muscle is cut and subjected 
to mild heat, the juices in the tubes on the exposed 
sides are drawn out, and often lost. High heat will 
harden these juices at once. Then by subjecting the 
cut surfaces to high heat for a few moments, we may 
form a coating that will keep in the juices ; then, by 



96 Cooking for Two 

lowering the temperature, the juices within may be 
cooked just enough to jelly them, and change the 
color from bright red to a dull brownish hue. 

BROILED SIRLOIN STEAK 

Choose a small steak with tenderloin on one side, 
and have it cut one inch and a quarter thick. Wipe it 
carefully with a cloth wrung out of cold water, and 
cut off the flank end and any excess of fat. Heat the 
broiler. Rub the wires of the broiler with a bit of 
the fat, then put in the steak, having the rim of fat 
towards the open front of the broiler, that when the 
meat is held over the coals the melting fat may run 
down upon it, to baste it. Place the meat over and 
near the coals; let cook ten seconds, then turn, to 
cook the other side ten seconds; repeat for three 
minutes, then move the steak farther from the coals 
and cook from eight to ten minutes. Remove to a 
hot platter, and spread over the meat Maitre d' Hotel 
Butter. (See page 196.) 

BROILED LAMB CHOPS 
Prepare and cook as above, except shorten the 
whole time of cooking to from six to twelve minutes, 
according to the thickness of the chops. 

BROILED BEEF CAKES 
Put a small piece of steak, cut from the top of the 
round, upon a board; with a dull knife scrape the 



Cooking for Two 97 

meat pulp from the connective tissue on one side, then 
turn and scrape the pulp from the other side, leaving 
the white fibrous mass on the board. Season the pulp 
vs^ith salt, mix thoroughly, then shape into small, flat 
cakes. Broil these in a hot, well-oikd broiler. Keep 
the. edge of the cakes as thick as the center, or it will 
dry out too much in cooking. These require but a 
few minutes' broiling. They may also be pan-broiled. 

PAN -BROILED BEEF CAKES 

Have a cast-iron frying pan very, very hot; rub 
it over with a bit of fat, but leave no fat in the pan ; 
put in the cakes, turn as soon as the outside is seared 
a little, keep the pan very hot, and keep turning the 
meat, until the outside is browned sonaewhat. Set on 
a hot platter and season as steak. 

PAN -BROILED MUTTON CHOPS 

Prepare the frying pan as above, and cook the 
chops in the same manner as the beef cakes. Cook 
from six to eight minutes, according to thickness. 
The outside should be brown, the center juicy and 
slightly red. If the chops are from a young creature, 
cook a little longer and do not leave the center red. 

HAMBURG STEAK A LA TARTARE 

Scrape the pulp from the nerves and fibers of a 
pound of choice round or rump steak and chop the 
pulp with one-fourth a pound of beef marrow very 



98 Cooking for Two 

fine. Chop fine half a green pepper-pod and a slice 
of onion ; cook these in a tablespoonful of hot butter 
until yellowed and softened; do not brown them. 
Add these to the meat and marrow with half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, mix thoroughly, then shape into four 
balls ; press the balls into flat cakes with a depression 
in the center. Rub over the bottom of a hot, iron 
frying pan with a bit of suet, then put in the meat, 
and break the yolk of an egg into the depression in 
each; baste the yolks with a little melted butter and 
set the frying pan into the oven; let the meat and 
eggs cook about five minutes, then remove them to a 
hot serving-dish, pour over a cup and a half of hot, 
brown or tomato sauce, and serve at once. 
This will serve three or four people. 



PLAIN HAMBURG STEAK 

Prepare the meat as in the preceding recipe, or, 
pass the beef through a meat chopper; add the salt 
and, if approved, a little onion juice and mix thor- 
oughly. Press the meat (this may be done nicely on 
a meat board) closely together into a flat, oval shape 
about three-fourths of an inch thick. Be careful to 
have the edges just as thick as the center. Heat the 
broiler arid rub the inside of the wires with a bit of 
fat. Loosen the meat from the board with a spatula, 
then set it in place in the broiler. Cook about eight 
minutes. In the gas oven turn once. Over bright 
coals turn each ten seconds for half the time, then 




Lamb Chops, Mashkd Potato. ^ Pj^t- p6. 




Lamb Chops, Pl.wked. - — Page loi. 




Sirloin Steak en Casserole, Rathskeller Style. — Page JOt, 







Twu Sets oi- Sweetbrkads, — Page 104. 




1h:)Iled Lami! for Two. Turnip and Carrot. — Page 11^ 




Scrag End and Breast of Lamb cut for Sjiall Family. — Page 112. 



Cooking for Two 99 

turn each two minutes. Spread with maitre d' hotel 
butter, page 196, or pour a cup of tomato or brown 
sauce over the meat on the platter. 



BROILED CHICKEN 

Cut the fowl down the back and through the 
breast. One of these pieces (half a chicken) will be 
enough for a family of two. Disjoint the wings and 
legs. Prepare the broiler as for beefsteak; put in 
the chicken and broil on the flesh side, three or four 
minutes (the skin on the other side will hold back the 
juice) , then turn and broil on the skin side about one 
minute ; repeat until the chicken is well marked with 
the wires of the broiler. Put the chicken into a 
baking pan, on a rack, and pour in half a cup of 
broth or hot water; baste the chicken thoroughly 
with melted butter, and let cook in the oven about 
twenty minutes, basting every five minutes. Serve 
with mashed potato, asparagus, hot or cold, and 
tomato salad. 

BROILED BACON 

Bacon may be broiled over a rather dull fire, but 
with a loss of fat, which is of value. To avoid this 
waste, the cooking may be done in the oven. Lay the 
bacon, cut in very thin slices, on the wires of a double 
broiler, close the broiler and set it into a moderate 
oven over a dripping pan. Let cook until the bacon 
is delicately browned and crisp, then serve at once. 



100 Cooking for Two 

This is one of the simplest and best ways of cooking 
bacon. That the bacon cook evenly, it must be sliced 
evenly. Lay the strip, skin side down, on a meat 
board, then with a strong, sharp, thin-bladed knife 
cut in slices as thin as possible, one after another, 
down to the rind; then run the knife between the 
slices and the rind, thus detaching them all together. 
Store the strip in a cool, dry place, that it may not 
mould and, also, that it may be sliced more readily. 



WHEN A FRIEND COMES TO DINNER 
If you use a gas range (in which things may be 
browned uniformly and very easily) try Planked 
Chops some day when a friend is to come home with 
your husband to dinner. This will not be when you 
first essay housekeeping, but after you have learned 
how to broil chops and make a dish of mashed pota- 
toes, without fret or worry. The dealer will 
" French " the chops for you, but by the time you 
decide to make this dish, scraping the flesh from the 
rib bones of four chops will not seem a great under- 
taking. The feature of the pounded bacon and bread 
crumbs may be omitted. 

Do not set the plank, when everything is in place 
upon it, too near the gas burner in the lower oven of 
your range. Do not hurry the browning of the pota- 
toes and turn the plank, as needed, to color them uni- 
formly. If the chops be underdone, at first, they will 
come out just right. Serve lettuce or celery salad 



Cooking for Two 101 

with them, and finish with some sort of a sweet that 
you have made in the early morning and a cup of 
coffee. 

LAMB CHOPS, PLANKED 

Select four rib-chops and trim the meat from the 
bones, French fashion. Pound four slices of bacon, 
cooked crisp, to a powder; brush the chops lightly 
with bacon fat or melted butter, then roll them in the 
powdered bacon and then in soft bread crumbs 
(sifted) . Broil the chops in a well-oiled broiler, leav- 
ing them a little under done. Have ready a cup of 
cooked peas, made hot and buttered, and about a pint 
and a half of mashed potato. Make a mound of 
potato on a hot, chop plank, set the chops against 
this and pipe the rest of the potato around them. 
Beat the yolk of an egg; add a tablespoonful of milk 
and with it brush over the piping of potato. Set the 
plank Into the oven, to brown the edges of the potato 
and make all hot. To serve, set the plank on a chop 
plate, put frills on the ends of the bones and the peas 
between the chops and potato. This is to serve two 
or four individuals. 



SIRLOIN STEAK EN CASSEROLE, RATHSKELLER 

STYLE 

There is no object in cooking a choice sirloin steak 
in a casserole, for a round steak costing much less 
will give better results, from the fact that it contains 
more juice. On bills of fare in fine restaurants, we 



102 Cooking for Two 

note the dishes, sirloin and tenderloin steaks, en cas- 
serole; but the cooking is not done in the covered 
casserole ; the steaks are pan-broiled and then served 
in low, open casseroles in which they are easily 
carved. 

For a sirloin steak large enough to serve three per- 
sons, make ready three or four small onions and a 
dozen, each, of raw carrot and potato balls. Cook 
these in a little hot fat, in a frying pan, until they are 
well browned on all sides, then cook in a pint or more 
of beef broth until they are tender; keep the vege- 
tables hot. Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter and 
stir and cook until it becomes well browned, but not 
in the least burned ; add four tablespoonfuls of flour 
and half a teaspoonful of salt and cook until it is also 
thoroughly browned, then set aside to become cold. 
When cold add a cup and a half of the broth in which 
the vegetables were cooked and stir until the mixture 
boils, then add the vegetables (also half a dozen or 
more of button mushrooms if convenient) and let 
stand in a dish of hot water until the steak is ready. 
Also heat a low, beefsteak casserole. Rub over the 
bottom of a very hot iron frying pan with a bit of 
suet, lay in the steak to cook one minute, then turn 
and cook the other side one minute and continue cook- 
ing and turning for six minutes, then transfer the 
steak to the hot casserole, season with salt and pour 
over it the sauce with vegetables ; set the dish into the 
oven to remain about three minutes, then serve as 
above. 



Cooking for Two 103 

BROILING COOKED MEATS 

We have said that only tender meat — meaning by 
this naturally tender meat — was suitable for broil- 
ing, but there are one or two varieties of meat that 
are first made tender by long, slow cooking, and then 
broiled to improve the flavor. The foremost of these 
are tripe and sweetbreads. Tripe is an inexpensive 
article of food that may be served in many appetiz- 
ing ways. Perhaps the best of these, as it is certainly 
the simplest, is by broiling. Sweetbreads in some 
sections are considered a choice tid bit, and a great 
delicacy, and bring a high price, 75 cents and $1.00 
per pair. In other localities they are given or thrown 
away, and in country places, where there is only a 
moderate demand for them, they sell for twenty to 
forty cents a pair. Both of these articles are well 
adapted to the needs of the family of two. Tripe 
may be purchased fresh or pickled. In buying fresh 
tripe get only enough for one meal, about a pound. 
More of the pickled article may be purchased, as it 
will keep in the refrigerator a week or longer. Pre- 
sumably the tripe is tender when purchased. If this 
be not the case, it must be simmered until tender in 
boiling water. Sweetbreads spoil very quickly, and 
must be cooked as soon as purchased. Let stand in 
cold water an hour or more, changing the water 
often; remove veins, skins, etc., cover with boiling 
water and let simmer, nearly an hour. Drain and 
cover with cold water. When cold wipe dry and set 
aside until ready to use. 



104 Cooking for Two 

BROILED SWEETBREADS 

Cut the sweetbreads in halves lengthwise, brush 
them with softened butter and broil over a rather dull 
fire, about five minutes, less rather than more, turning 
them every thirty seconds. Baste with butter once or 
twice. Set on a hot dish, spread them with Maitre 
d' Hotel butter and serve at once. Peas, asparagus 
tips, creamed potatoes or celery accompany the dish. 
Macaroni in tomato sauce with cheese is also good 
with this dish. 

BROILED HONEYCOMB TRIPE 

Brush over both sides of the tripe with melted 
butter or bacon fat, then pat on a board on which 
sifted bread crumbs have been spread, first on one 
side then on the other; set into a hot well-oiled broiler 
and cook over a bed of coals or under a gas flame 
from four to eight minutes. Under the gas flame 
turn but once. Over the coals turn every thirty sec- 
onds. Spread with Maitre d' Hotel butter. If the 
tripe be fresh, a teaspoonful of lemon juice should be 
gradually beaten into the butter. 

ROAST MEATS 

In broiling, a comparatively large extent of surface 
is presented to the fire. Sometimes we wish to cook 
tender meat that is in a compact form. A piece is 
often but a little less thick than broad. To cook such 
meat directly over the fire or in front of a fire (roast- 



Cooking for Two 105 

ing) necessitates well-nigh constant attention. To 
simplify the cooking, we use a hot oven, in which 
heat is applied to all the surfaces uniformly, or ap- 
proximately so. The first step is to sear over the 
surface, to keep the juices within the meat; then, as 
in broiling, the heat must be lowered. To aid in the 
outside searing and to convey heat into the meat, we 
pour hot fat over it (baste) every ten minutes. To 
sear over the meat, the oven should be at a temper- 
ature of 400 F. when the meat is set into it. After 
the initial searing is completed, the temperature 
should be lowered as soon as possible to about 240 F. 
Fat will not burn in the pan at this temperature. This 
is a guide in the roasting. The temperature of the 
roast at the center is much lower than 240" F., on ac- 
count of the water in composition, and thus the juices 
are not overcooked or dried out. 

Part of the fat used in basting may come from the 
meat itself, (dripping), but often this must be sup- 
plemented with additional fat left over from other 
roasts, or taken from the top of the soup kettle. If 
during the cooking a portion of the meat rests con- 
tinuously in the hot fat, it will be overcooked, fried, 
not roasted or baked. To obviate this, set the meat 
on a rack, and always adapt the size of the pan to 
the size of the roast. If the pan be large, a large 
quantity of fat is needed to cover the surface of the 
pan, and keep it from burning. Water is sometimes 
used to obviate this trouble, but water changes the 
character of the product and should be discarded. 



106 Cooking for Two 

Roasts are preeminently for large families, still there 
are cuts of meat that are well adapted to the family of 
two. 

ROAST BEEF TENDERLOIN 

The tenderloin for a small family is cut from under 
the rump. It sells for thirty-five to forty cents a 
pound. It contains no bone and little waste. It 
weighs two and a half to four pounds; about three 
pounds is the average weight. Two or four slices 
may be removed for broiling, and the rest be cooked 
as a roast. 

With the fingers and a sharp, thin knife, remove all 
skin and tendinous portions, and wipe the meat with 
a damp cloth. When the oven is ready (about 
400° F.) rub a little salt over the surface and spread 
it with salt pork or bacon fat, or fasten strips of salt 
pork or bacon over it. Set it on the rack in a small 
pan, and into the hot oven ; let cook five or six min- 
utes, then turn, to sear over the other side ; in about 
ten minutes baste with the fat in the pan, dredge with 
flour, reduce the heat and let cook from fifteen to 
twenty minutes longer, according to the thickness of 
the meat. Baste three or more times. When cut the 
meat should be dark on the outside to the depth of 
one-fourth an inch, and the center shaded from pink 
to red, but showing no signs of rawness; I.e., the 
juices should be coagulated throughout. Pour off 
the fat, to leave two tablespoonfuls In the pan, add 
two tablespoonfuls of flour and stir and cook until 



Cooking for Two 107 

frothy; then add one cup of tomato puree, beef 
broth or cold water, or a mixture of these, and stir 
and cook until boiling. For a higher flavored sauce, 
a slice of onion and two of carrot may be cooked in 
the fat a few moments before the flour is added. 
This roast does not have the juiciness and full, rich 
flavor of a rib roast, and calls for a richly flavored 
sauce. Bananas baked in the skin, then removed 
from the skin and covered with a sultana sauce, are 
a choice accompaniment to this dish. 



HAMBURG ROAST 

Chop fine one pound of steak, cut from the top of 
the round, and two or three ounces of beef marrow, 
taken from the hind leg bone ; a small slice of green 
or red pepper pod and half a slice of onion may be 
chopped with the meat or a teaspoonful of onion 
juice may be added after the meat is chopped. Add 
a scant half a teaspoonful of salt, the beaten yolk of 
an egg and one-fourth a cup . of soft, sifted bread 
crumbs that have been soaked in cold water and 
wrung dry in a bit of cheese cloth. With the hand, 
mix all the ingredients together very thoroughly. 
Care must be taken to mix the marrow and bread 
evenly through the meat. Press the whole into a 
compact roll, of equal thickness throughout. Put a 
slice of pork or bacon on the meat rack (to hold up 
the meat), set the roast on this, put a second slice 
over the meat and set to cook in a very hot oven. 



108 Cooking for Two 

After six minutes reduce the heat, baste with the fat 
in the pan, and let cook about fifteen minutes longer. 
The roast should be brown on the outside and pink 
at the center. Serve with brown or tomato sauce. 

TIP OF THE LOIN ROAST 

The best of the small roasts of beef are two ribs 
cut from the extreme end of the hind quarter. This 
roast will weigh five or six pounds and will last 
a family of two nearly a week. The two ribs coming 
next to this cut (on the fore quarter, however) will 
weigh seven to ten pounds. As the hind quarter is 
hung up by the loop made by the tendon in the hind 
leg, the juices in this quarter naturally flow toward the 
tip, making it juicy, and, the roast being tender, is 
very desirable. Sear all over in a hot oven, then set 
the meat on the rack, skin side down, and when half 
cooked turn, to brown the skin. Cook from an hour 
and a quarter to an hour and a half, following the 
directions given for Roast Beef Tenderloin. Add 
extra fat if needed for basting. Select a pan but little 
larger than the roast. Use no water in cooking. 

WILD DUCK, ROASTED 
Truss the duck in the same manner as is given for 
Roast Chicken. Spread the outside with butter or 
bacon fat, and dredge with salt and flour. Put a 
dozen cranberries within, and roast in a hot oven 
from twenty to thirty minutes, basting three times 



Cooking for Two 109 

with bacon fat. Remove the duck to a hot platter, 
and garnish with rounds of hominy, fried in deep fat, 
each holding a slice of bacon, rolled and baked at the 
same time as the duck, or better still fried in deep fat. 
Serve celery salad and currant jelly at the same time. 



COOKING OF LESS TENDER MEAT 

In cooking tender meat we took pains to secure a 
glossy, well-browned exterior and a delicate coagu- 
lation of the proteids in solution. In cooking less 
tender meat a rich-colored, high-flavored surface can 
be secured only indirectly. Our chief concern is to 
change the connective tissue into gelatine and to coag- 
ulate the proteids, delicately. To gelatinize con- 
nective tissue, moisture in the form of water is intro- 
duced and prolonged cooking is needful. As in 
roasting and broiling, the portion of me^t is first 
subjected to high heat, that a coating may be formed 
to keep in the juices, after that the cooking is com- 
pleted at a lower temperature. By experiments it 
has been found that the temperature in the center of 
meat during cooking is much lower than that of the 
liquid (or oven heat) surrounding it. Thus albu- 
minous juices, which coagulate between 134° and 
160° F. are not overcooked, though the liquid sur- 
rounding the meat be at the boiling point of water, 
212° F. To give the best results, however, the liquid 
that supplies moisture for the cooking of meats con- 
taining much connective tissue should not exceed a 



110 Cooking for Two 

temperature between 185° and 200° F. By lengthen- 
ing the time of cooking, just as good results may be 
obtained and at a much lower degree of heat, as in 
the fireless cooker. In all cases the cooking is com- 
pleted, when the fibers are tender and held together 
loosely yet compactly in a slightly gelatinous mass. 

Without a thermometer, the proper temperature is 
assured, if the liquid " bubble " occasionally on one 
side of the kettle. A furious bubbling of the liquid 
hardens albuminous juices in solution; and in the 
cooking of meats, cut in small pieces, as joints of a 
fowl or pieces of round steak, cooked en casserole, or 
for beefsteak pie, the albuminous juices are hardened 
throughout. 

CUTS OF LESS TENDER MEAT SUITABLE FOR 
FAMILY OF TWO 

Beef is not as palatable when warmed over as is 
lamb, veal or fowl ; thus pot-roast, boiled-and-braised 
beef, even in pieces of three or four pounds, are not 
recommended for the family of two. Other dishes of 
beef to take the place of these will be given. For 
stews, en casserole dishes, hashed beef and onions and 
beefsteak pies, meat from the round is the best; for 
beef tea, bouillon, cannelon of beef, or mince meat, 
select meat from the sticking piece. For corned beef, 
buy three pounds from the plate or the brisket. Care- 
fully selected the lean and fat meat will be well pro- 
portioned. Either of these pieces, but more especially 
the brisket, will slice well when cold. Creamed 



Cooking for Two 111 

corned beef is a dish that can be served with pleasure 
at least as often as once a week throughout the year, 
and well-made corned beef-and-potato hash never 
goes a begging. Corned beef, cut in tiny cubes and 
served with vegetables, potato cubes, peas and the 
like, and French or mayonnaise dressing, to which 
onion juice has been added, is easily prepared and de- 
serves to be a favorite dish. Thus, with all these ways 
of presenting close, fine-grained brisket, four pounds 
may not be too much for an occasional purchase. 

A fowl a year old may be cooked in moist heat 
until the fibers are tender, and the connective tissues 
are gelatinized, and then browned in the oven with 
much basting and dredging to approximate the glossy 
" carameled " appearance and flavor of a roast 
chicken. 

A fowl a year old may be cooked to give quite a 
diversity of dishes. The breast, cut out neatly, may 
be cooked in a casserole for one meal; the rest may 
be stewed; of this the legs and wings may be fried, 
and on a third day the rest of the chicken, picked 
from the bones, with any of the breast left over, may 
be served in a pie. 

Three pounds from the forequarter of yearling 
lamb provide a convenient piece for boiled lamb ; the 
scrag, or neck end of the forequarter, is good for a 
stew, but the part containing the shoulder is prefer- 
able for boiling. This will serve for dinner and leave 
enough to be fine-chopped, when cold, and used for 
a second meal. 



112 Cooking for Two 

For veal stew, two or three pounds from any part 
of the forequarter may be selected; for other dishes 
of veal, the part of the hind leg that corresponds to 
the " round " of beef will be the choice. 

For boiled ham, buy about three pounds from 
about the center of the ham; when cold cut in thin 
slivers across the grain of the meat. Very little of 
such a piece of ham will be left for chopping. Taking 
into account the very small quantity of waste in this 
piece and the large quantity of waste, when either 
the shank or the round end of a ham is selected, the 
higher price paid for the piece from the center will 
not prove an extravagance. 

BOILED CORNED BEEF 

Select three or four pounds from the plate or bris- 
ket; wash carefully in cold water, cover with cold 
water and heat slowly to the boiling point, then let 
simmer until the meat is tender. It will take about 
six hours. With a lireless cooker proceed as above, 
but, after simmering an hour and a half, set into the 
cooker to remain about ten hours. Serve with it 
boiled turnips or cauliflower. 

NECK AND SHOULDER OF LAMB 

The neck and shoulder of lamb, before referred to 
(see illustration, page 99), is an economical piece of 
meat, and capable of many variations in cooking. 
The whole piece shown in the illustration weighed 



Cooking for Two 113 

about five pounds. The scrag, or neck end, — the 
fore leg is also on this part, — is the least desirable 
portion. This follows the rule that meat increases 
in value the further it is removed from the head. 
Either of these pieces (do not cut for a family of 
four or five) may be steamed, and the broth be 
thickened for a sauce ; and they may be braised with 
vegetables or cut in pieces and cooked as a stew, a 
ragout, or a curry. 

BOILED LAMB 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, cover with boil- 
ing water, let boil five or six minutes, then simmer 
about three hours. Serve with caper sauce, boiled 
turnips, cauliflower or spinach, and potatoes. 

SPANISH VEAL BALLS, EN CASSEROLE 

About ij^ lbs. of veal (cutlet, Yz teaspoonful of paprika 

from leg) i teaspoonful of parsley (fine 

J4 cup of fat, salt pork or chopped) 

bacon iVz cups of cooked tomatoes 

J/2 cup of fine, soft bread Yz teaspoonful of salt 

crumbs A slice of green or red pepper, 

I egg, well-beaten chopped fine 

Yz teaspoonful of salt 

Chop the veal, freed from skin, etc., and the pork 
very fine, add the other ingredients and mix all to- 
gether thoroughly, then shape into balls by rolling 
portions of the mixture in the hands. Make about six 
balls. Roll the balls in flour, then saute them in a 
little salt pork fat made hot in a frying pan. Heat 



114 Cooking for Two 

about a cup and a half of canned tomatoes and turn 
into a casserole. Add the salt and chopped pepper, 
put in the veal balls, rinse out the frying pan with a 
spoonful of the tomato juice and pour into the cas- 
serole. Cover and let cook in a moderate oven an 
hour or more. Serve from the casserole, or from a 
platter, with a sprig of parsley in the top of each ball. 
Beef (from the round) may be prepared in the same 
way. Also a pound of veal steak or beef steak from 
the round, cut in pieces two inches square, may be 
browned and cooked with the tomatoes in the cas- 
serole. In this case two hours' cooking will be needed. 
The tomato may be strained, if desired, before it is set 
to cook. 

CALF'S LIVER, HASHED 

Cut from half to a whole pound of calf's liver into 
slices and pour over it boiling water to cover; let 
stand five or six minutes, then drain, wipe on a cloth 
and chop fine. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in a 
saucepan, put in the hashed liver, cover and let sim- 
mer very gently about one hour, stirring occasionally. 
Then add a dash of paprika, half a teaspoonful of 
salt and two or three tablespoonfuls of hot water or 
broth and serve when mixed thoroughly. Serve on 
rounds of buttered toast or with baked potatoes. 

BREAST OF FOWL (ONE YEAR) EN CASSEROLE 

With a sharp knife cut the breast, entire, from a 
fowl a year old and leave the rest of the flesh intact. 



Cooking for Two 115 

Have three or four tablespoonfuls of salt pork or 
bacon fat, butter or vegetable oil in a frying pan; 
when hot cook the breast over a brisk fire on the skin 
side until slightly browned, then set into an earthen 
dish ; add about a dozen slices of carrot and an equal 
number of celery and pour in boiling water to half 
cover the chicken; put on the cover of the dish and 
let boil five or six minutes, then set to cook in a mod- 
erate oven for about two hours. Allow plenty of 
time for cooking, as the chicken may be kept hot in 
the dish after it is cooked enough. Renew the water 
as needed and add salt and pepper when about half 
cooked. Serve from the dish, or dispose the chicken 
on a platter with the vegetables around it. 

HOW TO COOK AND SERVE REST OF THE FOWL 

Separate the fowl at the joints, wash in cold water, 
drain, cover with boiling water and let boil six or 
seven minutes, then let simmer until tender. It will 
take about two hours, then add a teaspoonful of salt 
and cook longer if not perfectly tender. 

FOWL SAUTED 

Roll the legs and wings in flour seasoned with salt 
and pepper, then set them to cook in a frying pan 
containing three or four tablespoonfuls of hot, salt 
pork fat. When browned on one side turn the pieces 
and brown the other side. Serve garnished with cel- 
ery tips and parsley. Serve also at the same time 



116 Cooking for Two 

macaroni in tomato sauce, Turkish pilaf, plain boiled 
rice, curried rice, spinach a la creme, creamed pota- 
toes, etc. Use some of the broth for a sauce. A 
partridge separated into joints may be cooked in the 
same way. 

CHICKEN PIE FOR TWO 

Pick the rest of the meat from the bones; add any 
bits left from the breast and chicken broth to cover 
the whole ; add also salt and pepper to season. Heat 
to the boiling point, then turn into a small earthen 
baking dish. In the meanwhile sift together into a 
bowl a cup and a half of pastry flour, three level 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder and a scant half tea- 
spoonful of salt. With the tips of the fingers work 
into the flour about one-third a cup of shortening, then 
with a knife mix the mass to a dough with sweet 
cream or rich milk in quantity as is needed. Turn 
the dough on to a floured board, turn it around with 
the knife, to flour it a little, then knead lightly and pat 
and roll into a sheet, a little larger than the dish. 
Cut out a round to fit the dish and make two cross- 
wise slits in the center. Butter the edge of the dish, 
and set the crust in place. With a small round cutter 
stamp out several rounds from the rest of the dough. 
Use the same cutter and stamp the rounds into cres- 
cent and oval-shaped pieces ; brush the under side of 
these with cold water and set them upon the crust in 
symmetrical fashion. Brush over the whole top with 
melted butter and bake about half an hour. If any 




Chicken Breast, Cooked for Two.- — Page ii4- 




RoAsr Chicken, Garmsh (if Cranberry liw.A \ci-ies. — Page ny. 




Chicken Pie for Two. — Page ii6. 



Cooking for Two 117 

chicken broth still remains, use it in making a sauce 
for the pie. To make a beefsteak pie, use small pieces 
of steak, simmered until tender, in the same way. 
For a partridge pie use the joints of the partridge, 
cooked tender, in the same way. 



ROAST CHICKEN 

We will suppose the chicken, weighing about three 
pounds and a half, has been picked and drawn. If 
long hairs remain upon it, take the legs in one hand, 
and the neck in the other, and thus turn the body in the 
flame from a tablespoonful of alcohol ignited on a tin 
plate or cover, to burn off the hairs. Cut off the feet 
at the knee joint. Turn back the skin on the neck, and 
cut off the neck itself on a line with the top of the 
wings. Do not cut off the skin. Wash the chicken 
inside and out and fill with bread stuffing. Sew up the 
opening through which the stuffing was put into the 
body of the chicken. Turn the third joints of the 
wings back over the neck skin, turned down upon the 
back. Run a threaded trussing needle through the 
flesh of the wing into the body, and let it come out 
through the skin of the neck, turned down on the 
back, and on a line with the place where it went in ; 
put the needle back through the body and second wing 
an inch from where it came out, to leave a stitch in 
the back ; now leave a stitch an inch long on the wing 
and run the needle through the body, to come out an 
inch from the place where it entered the first wing. 



118 Cooking for Two 

Tie the thread in a bow knot. Press the legs close 
to the body, drawing them up as high as possible. 
Run the threaded needle through the legs and body 
and return to the first side an inch from the place 
where the needle comes out. Tie in a bow knot. 
Spread a slice of salt pork over the breast of the 
chicken, set on a rack in a pan of suitable size and 
set to cook in a hot oven; after fifteen minutes, re- 
duce the heat and let cook about two hours. Baste 
every ten minutes with the dripping in the pan, or 
with hot fat taken from the top of the soup kettle. 
Dredge with flour after each basting. An eight 
pound turkey requires at least three hours of cooking; 
often another hour is desirable. A fowl is cooked, 
when the joints may be easily separated. 

BREAD STUFFING 

Remove the crust from bread that has been baked 
at least twenty-four hours. Grate the bread or press 
it through a colander. To two cups of crumbs, add 
two fresh sage leaves, a sprig of summer savory, and 
a thin pepper-pod two inches long, all chopped fine, 
also a teaspoonful of onion juice, and half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, with half a cup of melted butter. Mix all 
together very thoroughly and use to fill the chicken. 

GIBLET SAUCE FOR ROAST CHICKEN 
Pour the fat from the baking pan, to leave two 
tablespoonfuls In the pan; add two tablespoonfuls 



Cooking for Two 119 

of flour, stir and cook until frothy, then add one cup 
of the water in which the giblets were cooked (these 
should be cooked while the chicken is being roasted), 
and stir until the boiling point is reached. Add the 
chopped giblets and serve. 

BLANQUETTE OF VEAL 

Have a pound and a half of the best end of a 
breast of veal; wipe the surface with a damp cloth 
and cut the meat into pieces two inches square; add 
water just to cover the veal, also a carrot, scraped 
and cut in quarters, two small onions, peeled and tied 
in a bit of cheese cloth, with a teaspoonful of celery 
seed, two branches of parsley, two cloves and a bit of 
bay leaf; cover and let simmer until the veal is tender 
(about an hour and a half) ; strain off the broth, dis- 
card the vegetables, and keep the veal hot. Melt 
three tablespoon fuls of butter ; cook in it three table- 
spoonfuls of flour with a little salt and pepper, then 
add the broth and stir until the sauce boils. Beat the 
yolk of an egg; dilute with half a cup of cream and 
stir into the sauce ; let cook, without boiling, stirring 
constantly until all is very hot, then stir in a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice and pour the sauce over the 
veal. 

BEEF BALLS WITH SPAGHETTI OR MACARONI 

Put over the fire half a can of red tomatoes, half 
a sweet green or red pepper, cut in shreds (after dis- 
carding the seeds), half an onion, cut in thin slices. 



120 Cooking for Two 

two sprigs of parsley and a cup of water; let cook 
half an hour, then pass through a sieve into a casse- 
role; add half a teaspoonful of salt and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and the beef balls prepared as 
follows. Chop very fine half a pound of steak, freed 
from fat and stringy portions. Steak from the top 
of the round should be selected. To the chopped 
meat add one egg, beaten light, one fourth a cup of 
grated crumbs of bread, a grating of onion (about a 
teaspoonful) half a teaspoonful of salt and the same 
quantity of paprika; mix all together thoroughly, 
then divide the mixture into half a dozen portions; 
roll each into a compact ball. Have ready in a frying- 
pan two tablespoonfuls of hot fat (that from salt 
pork, bacon or the top of the soup kettle preferred) ; 
in this roll the beef balls until they are slightly 
browned on the outside, then drain on soft paper and 
put into the sauce in the casserole, cover the dish and 
let cook in the oven or on the back of the range about 
forty-five minutes. In the meantime cook half a cup 
of spaghetti, in whole or half lengths as preferred, in 
boiling, salted water until tender (it will take about 
half an hour) ; drain and rinse in cold water. When 
about ready to serve the dish, take out the meat balls, 
turn in the spaghetti and one-fourth a cup or more of 
Parmesan cheese and lift the spaghetti with a spoon 
and fork until it is thoroughly mixed with the sauce 
and cheese ; return the beef balls, cover and let stand 
in the oven to become very hot, then serve in the cas- 
serole. Common American cheese may be used. 



Cooking for Two 121 

VEAL POT PIE, BAKED DUMPLINGS 

Have about a pound and a half of veal from the 
breast or about a pound cut from the thick portion 
of the leg (cutlet or slice) ; cut the meat into small 
pieces, cover with boiling water and let simmer until 
tender. A slice of bacon or fat salt pork, cut in tiny 
strips, may be cooked with the veal and will improve 
the flavor. Turn the meat with broth to nearly cover 
into a baking dish. Season with half a teaspoonful 
of salt and a little pepper. Sift together one cup and 
a fourth of pastry flour, a scant half a teaspoonful of 
salt and two teaspoonfuls and a half of baking pow- 
der; into these work three tablespoon fuls of shorten- 
ing, then stir in milk or water to make a dough that 
is not quite as stiff as for biscuits. Cut through and 
through the dough with a knife, then put It by the 
spoonful upon the meat, letting it rest upon the meat 
and cover the surface. Bake about twenty-five min- 
utes. 



CHAPTER VIII 

LEFT - OVERS OF MEAT, FISH, ETC. 

In families of two, it is often advisable, even dur- 
ing the summer, to prepare enough of certain articles 
of food for two or more meals at one and the same 
time; but, in general, the best results are obtained, 
both as regards palatability and digestibility, if just 
enough of each article be prepared for the meal and 
no more. Why bake three potatoes when only two 
are eaten? Why buy and cook six chops when four 
are just enough, and hot chops are more palatable 
and wholesome than cold ones ? Plan to have every- 
thing so perfect that every morsel will be eaten, and 
nothing thrown away. If vegetables be left over and 
are to be used in salads, wait until the heat has left 
them, then cover securely, and plan for an early re- 
appearance on the table. Serve cold meat cut in thin 
slivers; and, if made dishes are attempted, discard 
religiously all skin and gristle. Apply heat indirectly, 
by means of hot sauces and the like, lest strong heat 
impair the digestibility of the finished product. 



Cooking for Two 123 

CORNED BEEF HASH 

Have ready an equal bulk of cold, corned beef and 
cold, boiled potatoes, chopped fine, and a hot frying- 
pan with two or three tablespoonfuls of straw-colored 
bacon fat. Turn in the meat and potatoes, add from 
three tablespoonfuls to a cup of broth, according to 
the quantity of hash, cover, and let become hot. Stir 
to mix thoroughly, make smooth in the pan, cover, 
and let stand, to crust over slightly next the pan. 
Roll as an omelet, and turn on to a hot platter. Gar- 
nish with slices of lemon and pickled beet. Two or 
three slices of cold crisped bacon if at hand may be 
chopped with the meat and potato. 

HASH, CREOLE STYLE 

1 slice of onion ^ cup of cold, boiled potatoes 
%. green or red pepper (in cubes) 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter ^ cup of broth 

I cup of cooked meat (in ^ cup of tomato puree 
cubes) Salt as needed. 

Chop the onion and pepper very fine. Melt the 
butter in a hot Ifrying pan (agate preferred) and in 
it cook the onion and pepper until they are softened ; 
then add the meat and potato, both cut in tiny cubes ; 
mix thoroughly, then add the broth and puree; mix 
again and set into the oven until hot throughout. 

HASHED LAMB, WITH RICE AND PEAS 

About I cup of chopped lamb Salt, black pepper, butter 

Broth, salt and pepper J4 teaspoonful sugar for canned 
Y2 cup of hot boiled rice peas 

% can or i cup fresh peas 



124 Cooking for Two 

Remove all unedible portions from the meat before 
chopping. To the meat add broth and seasonings 
and let become very hot. Season the hot peas with 
salt and black pepper ; add one or two tablespoonf uls 
of butter and, if canned peas are used, the sugar. 
Have all very hot. Dispose the meat in a mound 
in the center of a hot platter; surround with the hot 
rice and in turn surround this with the peas. Serve 
at once. 

CREAMED HAM WITH POACHED EGGS 

Put three-fourths a cup of milk in a double boiler 
with half a stalk of celery and a slice of onion; let 
cook fifteen minutes, then pick out the celery and 
onion and stir in a level tablespoonful and a half, 
each, of butter and flour, creamed together; stir until 
the mixture thickens, then cover and let cook ten 
minutes; stir in three-fourths a cup of fine-chopped 
ham (cold, boiled) and let stand to become very hot. 
Dip the edges of rounds of toast In boiling salted 
water. Set them on a hot serving disn, spread lightly 
with butter and then with the ham mixture. Finish 
with a carefully poached egg above the ham. 



HAM - AND - MACARONI TIMBALES 

Yi. cup of macaroni i egg, well beaten 

Rapidly boiling water J4 teaspoonful of salt 

Salt ^ teaspoonful of paprika 

Yi cup boiled ham, chopped '^A, cup of milk or tomato puree 



Cooking for Two 125 

Cook the macaroni with salt in boiling water till 
tender, rinse in cold water and drain. Cut part of 
the macaroni into slices one-fourth an inch thick; 
take these, one by one, on the point of a skewer, dip 
in melted butter and use to line well-buttered moulds. 
As the melted butter cools, it will hold them in place. 
To the ham add one-fourth a cup of the tiny rings of 
macaroni, the egg, salt, paprika and liquid, mix 
thoroughly and use to fill the moulds. There will be 
about a cup and a half of material. Measure the 
moulds, then you will know how many to line. Let 
cook in hot water on folds of paper, either in the 
oven or covered closely on the top of the range or 
in a double boiler. Serve with a cup of tomato or 
white sauce, to which the rest of the macaroni has 
been added. 

CREAMED CHICKEN 

i^ cups of cooked chicken cut J4 teaspoonful of salt 

in cubes % teaspoonful of pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter i cup of milk or thin cream 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings and 
milk. Add the chicken. Serve on toast or on corn 
fritters. Peas may be added with the chicken. 

RECHAUFEE OF HAM WITH BROILED APPLES 

Melt about half a tumbler of currant jelly in a 
saucepan set over boiling water; lay in it some thin 
slices of cold, boiled ham and cover closely to become 



126 Cooking for Two 

hot. In the meantime core three or more apples, cut 
them into slices or rings half an inch thick and remove 
the skin, also any of the seed cavities that may remain. 
Have ready a hot broiler; rub it over with a bit of 
fat ham or with a piece of butter in a cloth. Set the 
apples in the broiler and let cook over the coals about 
three minutes, on each side, or until the apple is soft- 
ened throughout. With a spatula remove the apples 
to the edge of the dish on which the ham has been 
disposed. Put a tiny bit of butter on each ring of 
apple and serve at once. 

CHICKEN BECHAMEL IN POTATO PATTY CASES 

1 5^ cups of cold, cooked ^ cup of chicken broth 

chicken in cubes Yi cup of cream 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 3 cups of well-seasoned 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour mashed potato 

J4 teaspoohful of salt i yolk of egg 
y^ teaspoonful of paprika 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, seasonings and 
liquid, add the chicken and heat over hot water. The 
potato should be just moist enough to flow through 
a tube easily. On a buttered baking sheet spread 
rounds of potato half an inch thick and nearly three 
inches across. Put the rest of the potato in a pastry 
bag and with star tube pipe potato on to the rounds, 
as if building a burr basket. Brush over the cases 
thus formed with the egg, and set into the oven, to 
make hot and brown the edges. Remove with a 
spatula or broad knife to plates, fill the open space in 
the centers with the chicken preparation and serve. 



Cooking for Two 127 

COTTAGE PIE 

Cook remnants of cold roast lamb or veal, cut in 
thin slices, in stock made of the trimmings and bones, 
reinforced by chicken bones and remnants of un- 
cooked meat, if at hand, until tender. Season with 
salt and pepper, and turn into a baking-dish. For 
a pint of meat with cup or more of broth, have ready 
about three cups of mashed potato, seasoned with 
salt and pepper and thoroughly beaten with butter 
and a little cream. Spread a layer of prepared potato 
over the meat, then put the rest on with a pastry bag 
and star tube. Brush over the potato with the yolk 
of an egg, beaten and diluted with a tablespoonful of 
milk. Set the dish in the oven, to brown the edges 
of the potato, then serve at once. 



BOSTON BAKED BEANS, REHEATED WITH BACON 

Have ready as many rounds of toast as individuals 
to serve. The toast may be made of any kind of 
bread preferred, with all crust removed. Put the 
beans in an agate dish ; add two or three tablespoon- 
fuls of boiling water, cover the dish closely and set 
into the oven to become very hot. In the meantime, 
roll strips of thin bacon (one for each service) into a 
compact shape, pass a wooden toothpick through each, 
to hold it in shape, put all in a frying basket, and let 
cook in deep fat about two minutes or until crisp; 
drain carefully. Dip the edges of the slices of toast 
in boiling, salted water and dispose on a hot dish ; 



128 Cooking for Two 

spread each slice with butter, dispose the beans on the 
slices, and a roll of bacon on each. The bacon may 
be omitted. 

RECHAUFEE OF LAMB, CREOLE STYLE 

Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter; in it cook 
one tablespoonful, each, of onion and green pepper, 
chopped fine ; cook until softened and yellowed, but 
not browned ; add three level tablespoonfuls of flour 
and cook until frothy, then add a cup of broth and 
half a cup of tomato puree and stir until boiling; add 
half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of paprika, half a 
teaspoonful of grated horseradish, a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice and two cups of cooked meat, cut in small 
pieces and neatly trimmed. Serve in a border of 
plain, boiled rice. 

RIZZOLETTI 

y2 cup of rice ^ cup of flour 

V/2 cups of stock, milk or to- ^ teaspoonful of salt 

mato puree i^ cups of milk stock or to- 

54 teaspoonful of salt mato puree 

I slice of onion Yz cup of chopped chicken 

Yi, cup of butter i or 2 eggs 

Blanch the rice in cold water, add the stock (that 
made from bones and giblets of fowl is good for this 
purpose) and the salt and let cook until the grains 
are tender but whole. Cook the slice of onion in the 
butter, add the flour and salt and let cook until frothy, 
then add the liquid and let boil. Remove the onion 



Cooking for Two 129 

and stir one-third a cup of the chicken into one-third 
a cup of sauce. Into the rest of the sauce stir about 
a cup of the rice. The dish is at its best when each 
kernel of rice is surrounded with sauce. Turn both 
mixtures on to plates to cool. When cold form the 
rice into balls, make a depression in each ball and put 
in a little of the chicken mixture, cover with the rice 
mixture. Roll the balls in soft, sifted bread crumbs, 
then cover with beaten egg, and then roll in crumbs. 
Fry in deep fat. 



QUESTIONS ON COOKING MEAT AND FISH 

1. What compound is found in comparatively large 
quantity in meat, to which no particular reference has 
been made ? 

2. What causes the puffy appearance seen in a 
properly broiled steak, when it is taken from the fire ? 

3. Why have steak cut not less than an inch and 
one-fourth in thickness? If not able to answer this, 
cook a thick and a thin piece of steak, and compare 
the results. 

4. Which contains the greater quantity of nutri- 
tious properties, 2 pounds of uncooked meat, or 2 
pounds of meat weighed after being properly cooked? 

5. What causes meat to shrink, when boiling water 
is poured over it, or when it is plunged into boiling 
water? 

6. In broiling steak, etc., why for the first three 
minutes is the meat turned every ten seconds ? 



130 Cooking for Two 

How does pan-broiling differ from sauteing and 
frying ? 

7. Which is the more easily digested, meat or fish, 
and why? 

8. What is gained by frying fish in deep fat? 



CHAPTER IX 

GELATINOUS SOUPS AND JELLIES. PROTEID SPARERS 

In the first chapter we spoke of " the gelatinoids," 
a group of proteids that were not as important as the 
group containing albumin, gluten, etc., inasmuch as 
they cannot alone supply the nitrogen needed by the 
body. Though they be not the equivalent of true 
proteids, they may replace some of the proteid in the 
diet. They are easily digested and absorbed and tend 
to promote nutrition. They also furnish variety in 
diet. The gelatinoids, with which we have most to 
do in cooking, are found largely in the connective 
tissues of meat and in the ligaments and bones of 
veal and chickens. This gelatinous principle is dis- 
solved by heat when moisture Is present. The main 
point to keep in mind is that connective tissue and 
bone are both practically flavorless and, if this prin- 
ciple is to be made use of in cookery, flavor must be 
added to it. If the juices of the meat be used, then 
rich flavor is assured. When these can be had only in 
small quantity, then flavor must be secured from veg- 
etables, herbs and the like. In making sweet dishes, 
we use the gelatine of commerce, and for flavor coffee, 



132 Cooking for Two 

chocolate, wine, fruit juices, etc. Such dishes do not 
possess high nutritive value of themselves, but nutri- 
ment may be added, when advisable, by the use of 
eggs or cream. 

SOUP STOCK FROM BONES OF A ROAST FOWL 
OR ROAST OF VEAL 

Break up the bones, carefully, discarding any dress- 
ing that may be attached to them. If a few bits of 
raw lamb (ends of chops) or veal be at hand, these 
will give flavor to the soup. Also if uncooked giblets, 
heart, liver and gizzard, or the neck of the fowl be 
available, the soup will be much improved. Cover 
the materials to be used with cold water, and let heat 
slowly to the boiling point, then let simmer an hour, 
or longer, if uncooked material were added. Add 
now half an onion, cut in bits, half a small carrot, cut 
in bits, a stalk of celery or half a tablespoonful of 
celery seed, a sprig of parsley, six peppercorns and a 
scant teaspoonful of salt, and let cook nearly an hour, 
then strain off the broth. Set this aside in a cool place 
and when cold remove the fat. This fat may be used 
in making the thickening, if a thickened soup be de- 
sired. 

SOUP I 

Have ready two or three tablespoonfuls of cooked 
rice and one-fourth a cup of bits of cooked chicken; 
reheat the soup, add the rice and chicken with salt 
and pepper as needed. 



Cooking for Two 133 

SOUP 2 

Reheat the soup stock in a double boiler ; beat the 
yolk of an egg — two are better — add half a cup 
of thin cream and stir into the soup. Season as needed 
and stir until the egg is set, then serve at once. 

SOUP 3 

To the stock add half to a full cup of tomato puree, 
serve in this way or finish as soup i or 2. 

SOUP 4 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, or fat taken 
from the top of the stock; cook in it two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour; add half a cup of cooked spinach, 
pressed through a sieve, and half a cup of the stock; 
stir until boiling, then stir into the rest of the stock. 
Season to taste. The yolk of an egg and cream may 
be added at the last moment. This is a most delicious 
soup. 

SOUP 5 

Cooked celery, onions, peas, or asparagus may be 
pressed through a sieve, and from half to a full cup 
be used in place of the spinach in soup 4. 

CHICKEN STOCK OR BROTH FROM UNCOOKED 

FOWL 

Have the fowl separated into pieces at the joints; 
wipe the pieces with a small piece of cheese cloth 
wrung out of cold water; put into a saucepan, and 



134 Cooking for Two 

pour on cold water to cover well the pieces of fowl; 
heat slowly to the boiling point, then let simmer until 
the meat is tender. Pour off the liquid and set it aside 
to become cold, then remove all of the fat. Season 
with salt and reheat, or use in any of the soups given 
above. There should be a pint of broth for each 
pound of chicken taken. If less broth be secured, 
water may be added. Use the pieces of fowl in any 
of the dishes given for stewed fowl. If the broth 
jellies when cold, scrape off the fat, then wipe the 
surface with tissue paper or a piece of cheese cloth 
wrung out of hot water. A stalk of celery and half 
an onion may be cooked with the fowl for flavor. 



SOUP FROM REMNANTS OF BEEF OR LAMB 
ROASTS 

Prepare the stock in the same manner as when the 
bones and remnants of roast fowl are used. Tomato 
puree is a good addition to this stock. Cooked maca- 
roni, cut in rings, makes a good garnish for the soup. 

CHICKEN BREAST IN JELLY 

Use broth from either cooked or uncooked fowl. 
If the broth makes a firm jelly when cold, gelatine is 
unnecessary. If the broth does not make a very firm 
jelly, add gelatine, about a level tablespoonful to a 
pint of broth. Soften the gelatine in one-fourth a cup 
of cold water, and dissolve in the broth, freed of fat 
and made hot. If cooked bones have been used freely 




iHicKiN IN Potato Patty Cases. — Page 126. 




Boston Bakicd Rkaxs on T(jast. P.acon Rolls. —Page 127. 




RizzoLETTi, '^' Left - OVER " Dish. — Page 128. 




Ham anu iLu.MiOxi Timeales, for Two. — Page 124. 




Cottage Pie. — Page 127. 




\"eal Pot Pie. Baked Dumplings. — Page 121. 



Cooking for Two 135 

in making the broth, the jelly will not be very clear. 
It may be clarified a little by the use of the white of 
an egg. Crush the shell, nicely washed before the 
egg is broken, and beat the white slightly, mix these 
through the broth and heat the whole (broth, gelatine 
and egg) slowly to the boiling point, stirring con- 
stantly meanwhile. Let boil five minutes, then keep 
hot ten minutes (without boiling) while the mixture 
settles. Skim carefully, then strain through a table 
napkin, laid over a colander or strainer. Add 
seasoning as is needed. Put a little of the chilled 
broth into a mould, set in a pan of ice and water; 
when nearly firm put in some thin slices, of cooked 
chicken, add more of the chilled-and-partly " set " 
broth and continue with chicken and broth, until the 
mould or moulds are filled. Serve when firm, with 
lettuce, cress or celery, and salad dressing. 

COOKED CHICKEN, CHOPPED AND MOULDED IN 

ASPIC 

Have ready a cup of clear soup (consomme, chicken 
broth or tomato and chicken bouillon) and a cup of 
fine-chopped, cooked chicken. Make the broth hot 
and in it dissolve half a level tablespoonful of gelatine 
that has been softened in three or four tablespoonfuls 
of cold water. Add a little of the gelatine mixture 
to the chicken. Set the moulds in ice and water, and 
put in the chicken and broth in alternate layers. Let 
each layer harden before another is poured in. Serve, 
turned from the moulds, with lettuce and French 



136 Cooking for Two 

dressing. To unmold, immerse a mould in warm 
water to the height of the mixture within. With a 
sharp-pointed knife, loosen the mixture from the edge 
of the mould, then tip the mould first at one point, 
then at another, to let air in between the mould and 
the mixture, then invert over the center of the serving 
dish, when the mould should be lifted from the jelly. 
Repeat the process as needed. 

COFFEE JELLY 

In making the coffee for breakfast make one or two 
extra cups; strain all the coffee from the grounds 
when pouring the coffee at table. Let it settle, then 
pour off and use the top of the coffee. For two small 
cups (half a pint) of jelly, put half a level table- 
spoonful of granulated gelatine info four or five 
tablespoonfuls of cold water to stand about fifteen 
minutes ; add a scant quarter of a cup of sugar and 
the cup of hot coffee ; stir over the fire until the gela- 
tine and sugar are dissolved, then strain into the cups. 
Serve with cream or a boiled custard. For fruit jellies 
see Chapter XIII. 

EMERGENCY SOUP 

Yi cup of half-inch cubes of I cup of half-inch potato cubes 

carrot 4 cups of water or broth 

Yi cup slices of celery (2 tablespoonfuls of meat ex- 
I onion, cut in shreds tract with water) 

Yx cup of butter or fat from Salt and pepper 
stock 



Cooking for Two 137 

Melt the butter or fat and In it cook the carrot, cel- 
ery and onion ten minutes. Cook the potato in boiling 
water five minutes, drain, rinse in cold water and 
drain again. Add the potato to the other vegetables 
with the water or broth and let cook one hour. Add 
the meat extract, if water was used instead of broth, 
with salt and pepper as needed. 

CHICKEN -AND -TOMATO SOUP 

1 tablespoonful of butter or fat 3 cups of chicken or veal broth 

from stock i tablespoonful of cornstarch 

2 slices of onion, chopped fine 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of cold 
2 sprigs of parsley, chopped fine water 

J4 can of tomatoes Salt and pepper 

Cook the onion and parsley in the hot fat till yel- 
lowed. Add the tomatoes and broth and let simmer 
fifteen minutes. Press through a sieve. Reheat to 
the boiling point; stir in the cornstarch mixed with 
the cold water; let cook ten minutes. Skim and 
season. 

SOUP MITOUNEE 

2 ounces of bread (2 or 3 slices) Salt and pepper 
5 cups of broth 

Free the bread from crust, break it in pieces, add 
to the broth and let simmer about twenty minutes. 
Stir the soup occasionally with a wooden spoon. 
When all of the bread is reduced to a pulp and the 
soup is thickened uniformly, add salt and pepper as 
needed and serve. 



138 Cooking for Two 

LAMB - AND - TOMATO SOUP 

I pint of lamb broth (liquid in ^ carrot, cut in match-like 

which lamb was boiled) pieces 

y-i cup of tomato puree (cooked ^ green or red pepper, cut in 

tomatoes strained) shreds 

J/< an onion, cut in thin shreds ^ cup of cooked rice 

Yi teaspoonful of salt 

Cook the pieces of onion, carrot and pepper in 
boiling water till tender; drain and add to the broth 
with the tomato, rice and salt. Let simmer five min- 
utes. 

CHICKEN - AND - TOMATOs BOUILLON 

(For a company dinner, Thanksgiving, etc.) 

Yz an onion i pint of water 

y\ carrot I quart of chicken broth 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter or Liquid drained from i can of 

dripping tomatoes 

I soup-bag Whites of 2 eggs 

I parsley branch Crushed shell of several eggs 

Yellow rind of I lemon Salt and pepper 

Cut the onion and carrot in thin slices, and cook in 
the butter until softened; add the " soup-bag " (bags 
of sweet herbs and spices prepared especially for 
soup) parsley, lemon rind and water and let simmer 
half an hour. Add the broth, liquid drained from the 
tomatoes, the whites of egg slightly beaten, crushed 
shells, salt and pepper. Mix all together thoroughly, 
then set over the fire and stir constantly until the boil- 
ing point is reached. Let boil five minutes, then draw 
to a cool part of the range and let stand ten minutes. 
Strain through a napkin laid over a colander. Re- 



Cooking for Two 139 

heat before serving. The liquid in which a fowl has 
been cooked, is preferable, but broth made from the 
remnants and bones of a roast fowl may be used. 



STANDARD BEEF BROTH 

2 lbs. of beef (one-fourth Half a " soup-bag " or piece of 

bone) bay leaf 

2 pints of cold water 8 peppercorns 

2 tablespoonfuls, each, of car- ^ small onion with 4 cloves 

rot and celery A branch of parsley 
A slice of green or red pepper 

Two pounds of beef from the hind shank is a good 
selection. There should not be more than half a 
pound of bone. Wipe the meat and cut it into small 
pieces. If there is marrow in the bone, remove it 
and let it melt in a hot frying pan : Into this or other 
fat, put about one-fourth of the meat and let cook, 
turning occasionally until well browned. Put this 
meat with the rest of the meat and the bone into a 
saucepan. Add part of the water. Pour the rest of 
the water into the frying pan, and let stand on the 
range until the browned juices are dissolved from the 
pan, then turn over the meat. Cover and let slowly 
heat to the boiling point; then let simmer three or 
four hours ; add the vegetables and seasonings and let 
simmer another hour. Then strain and finish as other 
broth. When finished measure and if needed add 
water to rnake one quart of broth. This may be 
cleared with the whites of eggs as the " Chicken and 
Tomato Bouillon " was cleared. 



140 Cooking for Two 

FISH BROTH FOR SAUCES, SOUPS, ETC, 

Cover the bones, skin and trimmings of fish with 
cold water. Add a tablespoonful, each, of carrot, 
onion and celery, a branch of parsley and a piece of 
pepper pod for each pint of water. Let simmer an 
hour or more, then strain off and use as meat broth. 

QUESTIONS 

1. What is the object of browning part of the meat 
used in making standard broth? 

2. Why are vegetables, as onion, carrot, etc., some- 
times browned in fat before adding them to soup 
stock? Think of advantages and disadvantages of 
doing this. 

3. What dishes would you serve with Soup 4, made 
without egg or cream, to provide a perfect meal? 



CHAPTER X 

INTRODUCING THE COOKING OF CARBOHYDRATES, 
THE TRUE HEAT AND WORK FOODS 

"Cooking is an essential preliminary to the ingestion of starch- 
containing foods, for uncooked starch cannot be utilized in any 
degree by man." — Chittenden. 

SAUCES AND CREAM SOUPS 

Up to this time we have been dealing with proteid 
food that is cooked delicately ; but in the average diet 
of an adult only one part of proteid is needed for 
five and three-tenths parts of carbohydrate and fat, 
and of the carbohydrate the principal part is starch. 
Prehistoric and early man, endowed with strong di- 
gestive power, was undoubtedly able to digest, in 
some measure, crude starch. But the digestive power 
of civilized man has been gradually weakened by his 
habits of life, and, in order that his organism may 
convert starch into a form that can be made use of 
in his body, it must first be changed, by the action of 
strong heat, into sweet substances akin to sugar. 

In this connection, it may be well to add that the 
mouth is the great starch-digesting organ of the body. 
The salivary glands of the mouth secrete a ferment. 



142 Cooking for Two 

which continues the digestive process begun in cook- 
ing. It is well to lighten the labor of the stomach 
by dividing minutely in the mouth meat and other 
proteid substances, yet this is not obligatory. But 
when we come to the mastication of starchy food we 
are dealing with quite another matter. Starchy food 
must be chewed and chewed until It Is Impregnated 
through and through with ptyalin, the starch-digest- 
ing ferment of the mouth, or the chances are that the 
starch will be cast out of the system as waste material. 

In some forms of cooking more starch is changed 
into sweet substances than in others. Thus in a baked 
potato the conversion of starch has been carried 
further than It has in a boiled potato, and in the 
brown crust of a loaf of bread than in the crumb at 
the center. 

In general, the higher the degree of heat to which 
It is possible to subject the starch, the greater is the 
conversion, though heat at a lower temperature, long 
continued, brings about very nearly the same result. 
Let us see now how the cooking of starch may be 
carried out In the matter of sauces. 

REGARDING SAUCES 

Often richness or moisture, one or both, would 
Improve an article of food, and, sometimes, we wish 
to add to the bulk of certain articles, to make them 
" go farther." In either case we may have recourse 
to sauces. Sauces are combinations of fat — usually 
butter or dripping — milk, broth, vegetable purees, 



Cooking for Two 143 

or water and flavorings, with eggs or some form of 
starch, to give body or consistence to the mixture. 
The thing that interests us just now is the ways in 
which the starch in our dish may be cooked with the 
other ingredients, to produce the desired result. This 
may be done in three different ways. 

PROPORTIONS OF THE INGREDIENTS IN SAUCES 

Sometimes we may wish a very rich and buttery 
sauce; and, for some uses, a very thick sauce, as in 
making croquettes; for general use, however, no 
matter how the sauce is put together, the proportions 
of the various ingredients are the same, i. e. : For one 
cup of sauce, take 

2 tablespoonfuls of fat % teaspoonful of pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour i cup of liquid 

J4 teaspoonful of salt 

1. Melt the fat in a small saucepan, set directly 
over the fire ; add the flour, salt and pepper, and stir 
until frothy throughout, then add the cold liquid and 
stir constantly and vigorously until the mixture is 
smooth, thick and boiling. The liquid may be added 
hot, if the hot mixture of butter and flour be cooled 
before such addition. 

2. Heat milk or cream over hot water (in double 
boiler) , other liquids directly over the fire. Beat the 
butter to a cream; gradually beat into it the flour 
and seasonings; dilute this with a little of the hot 
liquid, and stir until the ingredients are evenly 



144 Cooking for Two 

blended ; then turn into the rest of the hot liquid and 
continue to stir (over the fire) until the sauce boils 
and is smooth, or (in double boiler) until the sauce 
thickens and is smooth, then cover and let cook ten 
minutes or longer, stirring occasionally. 

3. Use a little of the cold liquid in stirring the 
flour and seasonings Into a smooth batter. Scald the 
rest of the liquid, if it be cream or milk, over hot 
water, or heat other liquids to the boiling point di- 
rectly over the fire. Stir the batter Into the hot liquid 
— dilute first with a little of the hot liquid, then when 
smooth stir into the rest of the hot liquid. If the 
double boiler be used, stir and cook until smooth, 
then cover and let cook ten or fifteen minutes, stirring 
occasionally; If cooked directly over the fire stir and 
cook until boiling. Just before serving, add the butter 
in little bits, beating in each bit thoroughly before the 
next is added. 

THEORY OF THE THREE WAYS OF MAKING 
SAUCES 

By the first method the sauce is very quickly made ; 
thus, when time is an object, this way should be 
employed. The temperature of hot fat is consider- 
ably higher than that of scalding milk or boiling 
water or broth; thus, when the flour (starch) is 
cooked in hot fat, It is cooked more quickly and 
thoroughly than when it is cooked in liquid. But fat 
that has been heated to a high temperature is not 
very easily digested, and thus the first method of 



Cooking for Two 145 

making a sauce should not be chosen, when the food 
is designed for children or those of weak digestion. 
What is gained in the thorough cooking of the starch 
is more than lost in the overheating of the fat. 

In cooking starch in the liquid considerably more 
time must be allowed. In following the last method 
the flavor of the butter is more nearly retained. All 
sauces made by these formulas are known as white 
sauces. When milk or cream is used as the liquid, 
the sauce is called cream sauce; when tomato is used 
tomato sauce. When the broth (veal, chicken or 
fish) is flavored with vegetables the sauce is called 
Veloute. 

HOW TO ADD YOLKS OF EGG TO A SAUCE 

Any of these sauces may be enriched by adding 
yolks of eggs or butter. The yolks, well beaten, will 
curdle, if they be stirred into the sauce while it is 
boiling. Wait until the sauce is finished and it is 
time to serve it. Have it standing in boiling water, 
or on some part of the range where it will not boil. 
Put a few spoonfuls into the egg, mix thoroughly, 
then stir into the rest of the sauce. Continue to stir 
until the sauce thickens a little, which shows that the 
egg is cooked. Then serve at once. 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE 

yi cup of butter % teaspoonful of pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour i cup of cold water 

% teaspoonful of salt 



146 Cooking for Two 

Melt half the butter In a small saucepan ; add the 
flour and seasonings and cook until frothy; add the 
water and stir constantly until the mixture thickens 
and boils ; let boil three or four minutes, then grad- 
ually beat in the rest of the butter, a little at a time. 

CAPER SAUCE 

(For boiled lamb) 

Prepare a drawn butter sauce, using lamb broth or 
water as the liquid. When ready to serve add one 
or two tablespoonfuls of capers drained from the 
liquid in the bottle. A teaspoonful of lemon juice 
may be added if desired. 

EGG SAUCE 

(For boiled fish) 

To a cup of drawn butter sauce add a hard-cooked 
egg, cut in thin slices or chopped fine. 

MOCK HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

(For boiled and baked fish, cauliflower, etc.) 

I tablespoonful of butter Yi cup of white stock 

I tablespoonful of flour Yolks of 2 eggs 

y^ teaspoonful of salt 54 cup of butter 

J4 teaspoonful of pepper Juice oi yi a. lemon 

Use the butter, flour, seasonings and stock in ma- 
king a sauce in the usual manner. The stock should 
be flavored with onion, etc. Cream the four table- 
spoonfuls of butter and beat the yolks into it, then 
gradually beat the mixture into the sauce. Finish 
with the juice of half a lemon. 



Cooking for Two 147 

BROWN SAUCE 

There is another general variety of sauce that dif- 
fers from the white sauce principally in color. The 
liquid in this sauce may be vegetable puree, fish, or 
meat broth, but it is usually beef broth made dark by 
browning the ingredients of which it is made in hot 
fat. For this sauce, cook the fat until browned but 
not burned; add, for a high-flavored sauce, one or 
two slices of onion, two slices of carrot, a bit of 
parsley and half a stalk of celery, all chopped rather 
coarse; let these brown in the fat, stirring con- 
stantly that they may not burn; now add three level 
tablespoonfuls of flour, and the usual quantity of salt 
and pepper and continue stirring and cooking until 
the flour assumes a reddish brown tint ; then add the 
cold liquid, and stir and cook until smooth and boil- 
ing, then strain. You will note that the proportions 
remain the same as for the white sauce, save that more 
flour is used. By the long cooking in the hot fat the 
conversion of the starch in the flour is carried farther 
than in the white sauce and the thickening property 
of the starch is lessened, thus more flour is required. 

For a brown tomato sauce proceed as in making 
the brown sauce, but use tomato puree as the liquid. 



THICK SAUCE FOR FOUNDATION OF 
CROQUETTES 

4 tablespoonfuls of fat ^ teaspoonful of pepper 

Yi cup of flour I cup of liquid 

% teaspoonful of salt 



148 Cooking for Two 

Prepare in one of the three ways given previously, 
page 143. 

THIN SAUCE FOR FOUNDATION OF CREAM SOUPS 

I tablespoonful of butter J4 teaspoonful of pepper 

I tablespoonful of flour i cup of milk, thin cream or 

% teaspoonful of salt white broth 

CREAM SOUPS 

It is but a step from cream sauce to cream soup. 
Use milk or thin cream in making the cup of sauce, 
then add from half to a whole cup of any kind of 
puree at hand. By puree is meant any food substance 
cooked (usually in water, though in some cases, as 
with tomatoes, water is unnecessary) and pressed 
through a sieve. Sometimes more and sometimes less 
of the article may be pressed through the sieve ; dilute 
the portion in the sieve with some of the liquid that 
has already dripped through so as to push through 
as much of the article as is possible. The larger part 
of tomatoes, onions, spinach, peas and beans will pass 
the sieve; less of celery, green corn and asparagus 
may be pressed through, on account of the tough 
cellular structure of the latter vegetables. Cooked 
fish and meat, free from skin and bone, then pounded 
smooth and passed through the sieve may be used in 
these soups. The fish and meat should be diluted 
with fish or meat broth, or the resulting soup will be 
too thick. Salt and pepper, and, occasionally, a little 
more hot milk or broth are needed. A gravy strainer, 



Cooking for Two 149 

set into one of the parts of a small double boiler, and 
a wooden pestle are indispensable in reducing the 
cooked material to the puree form. With these soups 
serve croutons, toasted crackers, or pulled bread. 



CROUTONS FOR CREAM SOUPS 

Cut Stale bread into slices from one-fourth to one- 
third an inch thick; remove the crusts, spread the 
surfaces with butter, and cut the slices into pieces an 
inch square. Set these into the oven to brown, turn- 
ing to brown both sides. 



TOASTED CRACKERS 

Split the common Boston or soda cracker, toast 
over the fire or in the oven, spread lightly with butter 
and serve. These may be spread with butter and then 
browned in the oven, but they are more wholesome 
spread with butter after they are browned. 



PULLED BREAD 

Remove the crust from a loaf of fresh-baked bread 
and cut and pull the loaf into halves, lengthwise; 
repeat this cutting and pulling until the pieces are 
about an inch thick; they may be the length of the 
loaf or shorter. Dry these in a slack oven until they 
snap when broken. They should be amber in color. 
Reheat before serving. 



160 Cooking for Two 

CREAM -OF -PEA SOUP 

Press half a cup of peas and the liquid in which 
they were cooked through the sieve. Melt a table- 
spoonful of butter; add a tablespoonful of flour and 
one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of salt and black pep- 
per and cook until frothy in the butter ; add one cup 
of milk and cook, stirring constantly, until smooth 
and boiling ; add the pea puree and stir until smoothly 
blended and again boiling. If too thick add a little 
hot milk or broth with additional salt and pepper 
and serve at once. If canned peas be used, add to 
them half a teaspoonful of sugar. Canned or fresh 
peas may be substituted for the corn in the " Cream- 
of-Corn Soup." These soups provide a nutritious 
luncheon. 



CREAM - OF - CORN SOUP (TO SERVE FOUR) 

(Formula with variations) 

Press enough canned or fresh corn, chopped fine, 
through a sieve to yield one-third a cup of puree. 
Beat one egg and the yolk of another ; add one- fourth 
a teaspoonful, each, of salt and black pepper, three 
tablespoonfuls of cream and the puree. Mix thor- 
oughly and turn into four buttered timbale moulds. 
Set these in a pan on several folds of paper, surround 
with water at the boiling point, and let cook in a slow 
oven until firm. Serve hot, one in each plate of soup. 
Slice half an onion fine; add a sprig of parsley (fresh 
or dried) and let cook in two tablespoonfuls of butter 



Cooking for Two 151 

until the onion is softened and yellowed; then add 
one cup of the chopped corn and a pint of broth or 
hot water (broth from chicken giblets and bones is 
good) and let simmer ten or fifteen minutes. Pour 
the liquid through a sieve and pound the corn with 
a pestle, then press as much of the corn as is possible 
through a sieve, diluting it, meanwhile, with the hot 
liquid ; then reheat the puree. Melt two tablespoon- 
fuls of butter; in it cook two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
half a teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper, then add 
one cup of milk ; stir until thickened and boiling, then 
add the puree and one-fourth a cup of cream. 

DELICATE CELERY SOUP 

I large slice of onion 3 tablespoonfuls of flour 

3 stalks of celery i teaspoonful of salt 

3 cups of milk Yi teaspoonful of pepper 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter i cup of cream 

Break the stalks of celery in pieces and pound these 
in a wooden bowl; add to the onion and milk and 
set to cook in a double boiler. Let cook twenty 
minutes. In the meantime melt the butter and in it 
cook the flour and seasonings; add the cream and 
stir until the sauce thickens and boils, then strain into 
it the celery and milk. 

CREAM - OF - TOMATO SOUP 

1 cup of tomato puree Additional seasoning, if needed 

2 cups of thin white sauce 



152 Cooking for Two 

CREAM - OF - CHICKEN SOUP 

Yz cup of chicken puree i cup of thin cream sauce 

2 cups of chicken broth sea- i yolk of egg with 2 table- 
soned with vegetables spoonfuls of cream 

CREAM - OF - STRING BEAN SOUP 

Yz cup of string bean puree slice of onion, and half a 

i^ cups thin white sauce stalk of celery 

Yi cup of milk scalded with a Salt and pepper as needed 

CREAM - OF - SPINACH SOUP 

J4 cup of spinach puree slice of onion and 3 slices 

15/2 cups of thin white sauce of carrot 

Yi cup of milk scalded with a Salt and pepper as needed 

CREAM - OF - OYSTER SOUP 

I cup of oysters (half a pint) V/i cups of thin white sauce 
Y2 cup of cold water ^ cup of hot cream 

Pour the cold water over the oysters; take each 
oyster in the fingers, rinse in the water and remove 
bits of shell that may be attached to it. Chop the 
oysters fine and press as much as possible through a 
sieve. Scald whatever does not pass the sieve with 
the water (strained through a cloth to remove sand) 
and add to the puree; stir the whole into the hot 
sauce and add the cream with salt and pepper as 
needed. 

CREAM - OF - OYSTER SOUP, NO. 2 

I cup of oysters i^ cups of thin white sauce 

Yi cup of cold water 




I in.iiTi.D CH iL KtN" Ah.ii_i>i n w rni Aspic, — Page r^^. 




Strainer, Cloth and Colander,^ Ready to Strain Liquid Aspic or 
Consomme. — Pa^t? 13^. 




Hard Cooked Eggs .Moldkd in Aspic. 




One Service of Cream of Corn Soup 




Utensils needed to make Purees for (."ream Soup, — Page 143. 




y.:<'£^;K!i.:-^. ■.■c-'oL.-.v.-i-ii'i&Xi: 



Flaky Pastry Croutons for Soup. ^ — Pag^ j. 



Cooking for Two 153 

Pour the water over the oysters and remove bits 
of shell. Strain the water through two folds of cheese 
cloth. Heat it to the boiling point, add the oysters 
and again heat to the boiling point ; stir into the hot 
sauce. A slice of onion and stalk of celery, scalded 
in the sauce, make a variation of flavor. 

OYSTER STEW 

y-i cup of cold water V2 teaspoonful of white or 
I pint of oysters black pepper 

i}4 cups of hot milk or water 3 tablespoonfuls of butter 

Yz teaspoonful of salt J4 cup of cracker crumbs 

Pour the cold water over the oysters, rinse each and 
remove bits of shell; add the hot liquid and bring 
quickly to the boiling point; add the butter, season- 
ings and crumbs and serve at once. 



CHAPTER XI 

CARBOHYDRATES (wORK FOODS ) CONTINUED 

" Few things show the difference between comfortable and 
slovenly housekeeping more quickly than the dressing of vege- 
tables." — Mrs. Rarer. 

THE COOKING OF VEGETABLES (INCLUDING 
CEREALS, MACARONI, ETC.) 

In cooking vegetables the questions most often 
asked refer to : 

1. The temperature of the water in which the veg- 
etables are set to cook. 

2. The temperature of the water during cooking, 
i. e., Shall the water simmer, simply boil, or boil 
rapidly ? 

3. The quantity of water (much or little). 

4. The time to add salt, also the quantity. 

5. Is soda ever added to the water, and, If so, for 
what purpose ? 

Save for the first item, no rule can be made that 
will apply to all vegetables. 

TEMPERATURE OF WATER IN WHICH VEGETA- 
BLES ARE SET TO COOK 

All vegetables are set to cook In water that is boil- 
ing at the time they are put into it. 



Cooking for Two 155 

All wilted vegetables should be revived in cold 
water before cooking. 

All dried vegetables should be soaked in cold water 
several hours, or over night, before cooking. 

A knowledge of the composition of a vegetable 
gives the key to the way in which it is to be treated 
during the cooking. 

COMPOUNDS IN VEGETABLES 
Starch is the dominant principle in most vegetables, 
though protein, sugar, fat, mineral matter and water 
(one or all) are combined with the starch. In some 
vegetables the starch is largely in the form of cellu- 
lose or woody tissue, but, in whatever form it may 
be, starch must be thoroughly cooked or it is un- 
wholesome. 

Vegetables containing a good proportion of starch, 
sugar or fat have a corresponding high food value, 
and in selecting food supplies are classed by them- 
selves. Green vegetables and all those deficient in 
the above compounds are eaten for flavor and variety 
as also to secure bulk in food so necessary for perfect 
elimination of waste products. Whatever the vege- 
table may be, the cooking is to be carried out in a 
manner to retain the particular compound which 
makes it valuable. 

VEGETABLES WITH ONLY SLIGHT TRACE OF 
STARCH 

Vegetables, like lettuce, endive, celery (inner 

blanched stalks), tomatoes, cucumbers, and small, 



156 Cooking for Two 

quickly-grown radishes, contain but a slight trace of 
starch. They are mostly water and mineral salts, 
both of which would be lost largely during cooking, 
unless the cooking be done at a gentle simmer, and the 
water be retained as food. These vegetables, then, 
might be exempt from cooking, save for variety. 
When cooked, no more water should be used than 
can be served with them, and the cooking should be 
at a gentle simmer. 

VEGETABLES CONTAINING SUGAR, PROTEIN AND 
SOME STARCH 

Green peas and asparagus contain so much starch 
that cooking is a necessity, but, to retain the sugar and 
other compounds, the cooking should be at a gentle 
simmer, in a small measure of water, and the water 
should form a part of the finished dish. "The same 
is true of spinach ; the water that clings to the leaves 
in washing being sufficient for the cooking. 

VEGETABLES WITH STARCH AS CELLULOSE 

Parsnips, salsify, carrots and turnips contain but 
little starch other than that found in their cellular 
structure; this fiber, like animal fiber, is hardened 
by high heat, and cooking should not be carried on 
at a temperature higher than the boiling point of 
water. The cooking should be prolonged until the 
fiber is tender, but no longer. All vegetables should 
be removed from the fire as soon as they are cooked. 



Cooking for Two 157 

VEGETABLES WITH MUCH STARCH 

Potatoes, breakfast cereals, rice, samp, macaroni, 
noodles and other pastes, used as vegetables, are rich 
in starch. A good potato, properly cooked, is mealy. 
A potato, no matter how good it may be, cooked in 
simmering water is water-soaked and soggy. If pota- 
toes be cooked in furiously boiling water, the outside 
becomes softened and washed away, while there is 
" a bone in the center." To cook in perfection, keep 
the water just at the boiling point until the potatoes 
are cooked. The same is true, practically, in respect 
to the cooking of other starchy vegetable products, 
but in cooking rice and macaroni, rapidly boiling 
water is necessary, in order that the grains or pieces 
be kept moving and separate from each other. A 
light, flaky dish of rice cannot be secured in a double 
boiler, where the water is of necessity below the boil- 
ing point. 

WHEN TO USE A LARGE QUANTITY OF WATER 

Some varieties of onions are strong flavored; when 
such, and also members of the cabbage family, are to 
be cooked, the use of a large quantity of water will 
insure a more delicate flavor. 

USE OF SALT AND SODA 

Hard water has a tendency to harden cellulose or 
woody fiber, and thus keeps sweet juices or other 
valuable compounds within the article cooked; soft 



158 Cooking for Two 

water acts in the opposite way. Salt added to water 
makes it hard, raises the boiling point a little, and 
intensifies the color of green vegetables. Soda sof- 
tens water and causes green vegetables to assume a 
faded look. As the appearance of food has much to 
do with our taste or distaste thereof, certainly, for 
a;sthetic reasons, the use of salt in the cooking of 
green vegetables would be a gain. Again, as green 
vegetables contain little woody tissue, but often sugar 
that we wish to retain in the article, the cooking of 
these in salted water would seem advisable. In gen- 
eral, salt should be added to the water in which all 
vegetables, except those containing much cellulose, 
are to be cooked. Potatoes and onions never taste 
just right unless the water in which they are cooked 
be salted. A teaspoonful of salt to- each generous 
quart of water will be found about right. Soft water 
is called for when the cellular structure of dried peas, 
beans and lentils is to be made tender. If such water 
be not available, a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 
added to each two quarts of water in which the vege- 
table is to be cooked, will soften the water. 

VEGETABLES CONTAINING MUCH STARCH 

POTATOES 

PREPARATION OF POTATOES FOR BOILING 

New potatoes: Scrape off the skin, scrub with a 
vegetable brush, then wash thoroughly. Old pota- 
toes : Pare the potatoes, remove the eyes and, if they 



Cooking for Two 159 

be large, cut them in halves, lengthwise; let lie in 
cold water — no salt — an hour or longer before 
cooking. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Add a teaspoonful of salt to a generous quart of 
boiling water ; put in the potatoes and let cook until 
tender. It will take from twenty to thirty minutes. 
Drain thoroughly, sprinkle lightly with salt and shake 
the pan back and forth on the hot stove lid. If they 
cannot be served at once, move to the back of the 
range and cover with a cloth. Salt sprinkled on the 
hot, moist potato, on account of its affinity for water, 
tends to draw it out and make the potato mealy. 



MELTING POTATOES 

Pare four or five potatoes of the same size and 
cook them in boiling, salted water; when done, drain, 
sprinkle with salt, and cover with a towel, to take up 
the moisture ; then take the potatoes, one by one, and 
press each firmly in a towel, to give it a round shape, 
and set them, side by side, in a well-buttered baking 
dish; turn in consomme or milk and cream, half and 
half, to surround the potatoes to one-third their 
height. Set half a teaspoonful of butter on each 
potato, or brush over the tops generously with melted 
butter, and let bake from fifteen to twenty minutes or 
until the liquid is absorbed and the potatoes are 
browned a little on top. 



160 Cooking for Two 

MASHED POTATOES 

Boil the potatoes as above and pass through a 
vegetable press into a hot saucepan. For about a 
pint, or four or five potatoes, add two level table- 
spoonfuls of butter, a little hot milk (one-fourth a 
cup) and half a teaspoonful of salt. Beat with a 
perforated wooden spoon until very light and fluffy, 
then turn into a hot vegetable dish and serve at once. 

MASHED POTATO CAKES 

Roll mashed potato, left from a meal, in the hands 
into balls and flatten into cakes. Set to cook in a 
frying pan containing hot bacon fat or dripping; let 
brown on one side, then turn and brown the other 
side. The cakes may be patted down in a little flour 
before cooking. For baked cakes, set the cakes on 
a buttered dish, put a small piece of butter on the 
top of each and let cook in the oven until hot and 
lightly browned. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Scrub the potatoes, either white or sweet, with a 
brush. Bake in a hot oven. The oven should be at 
a temperature that will render potatoes of medium 
size soft in about forty-five minutes. The skins 
should not be blackened. If the potatoes are to be 
eaten at once, take them from the oven to the dining- 
room. If there is to be a delay of five minutes, make 
two gashes in the top of each potato, one at right 



Cooking for Two 161 

angles to the other. Gently squeeze the potato to let 
out the steam, partially wrap in a napkin and take to 
the table. 

POTATOES ANNA 

Butter the inside of two or three English muffin 
rings and set them on a baking sheet, also buttered. 
Fill the rings compactly with pared, raw potatoes, 
sliced very thin and dipped in melted butter, bacon 
fat, or dripping. Also season the potatoes with salt 
and pepper as they are set in place. Put half a tea- 
spoonful of butter on the top of each ring of potatoes. 
Let cook on the floor of a hot oven about ten minutes, 
then with a spatula turn ring and potatoes together, 
and let cook ten minutes longer. With the oven at 
a proper temperature the potatoes will be browned 
on both sides and well cooked throughout In twenty 
minutes. Remove the potatoes and rings (with a 
spatula or broad knife) to the serving dish, then dis- 
card the rings. 

HASHED POTATO IN RAMEQUIN 

3 or 4 cold, boiled potatoes 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of boiling 

Yi teaspoonful of salt water 

3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of butter 

Chop the potatoes, sprinkling them with salt mean- 
while. Butter a ramequin; into it put the potato, 
disposing it evenly to the depth of an inch or more. 
Dot here and there with bits of butter, then pour in 
the water distributing it evenly over the potato. Let 



162 Cooking for Two 

cook in the oven until hot throughout and a bit of 
potato here and there is lightly browned. 



SAUTED POTATOES 

Cut the potatoes into halves, lengthwise. Have a 
little hot fat in a frying pan. The fat from bacon 
just cooked is preferable. Lay the potatoes in the 
fat and let cook until nicely browned, then turn and 
brown the other side. 

POTATOES AU GRATIN 

2 cups of chopped, cooked po- cheese 

tato 54 <^^P of cracker crumbs 

i^ cups of white sauce 2 tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
I to 4 tablespoonfuls of grated ter 

Stir the potato and cheese into the sauce and turn 
the whole into a buttered au gratin dish; stir the 
crumbs into the butter and spread over the top. Set 
into a hot oven to brown the crumbs. 

POTATOES WARMED OVER IN MILK 

Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter in an agate 
frying-pan. Put in a cup and a half of sliced, cold, 
boiled potatoes. Sprinkle with about half a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and turn carefully over and over, to mix 
them with the butter. When the butter is absorbed, 
turn in nearly three-fourths a cup of milk, cover and 
let cook, not too rapidly, until the milk is partly 
absorbed. 



Cooking for Two 163 

LYONNAISE POTATOES 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter or dripping 

dripping 2 cups of cold, boiled potatoes, 
Yz small onion, chopped fine in slices 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter or Yi teaspoonful of salt 

Cook the onion in two tablespoonfuls of butter 
until softened and slightly browned. Skim the onion 
from the frying pan to free it from the butter. To 
the butter in the pan add two tablespoonfuls. Turn 
in the potatoes and cook until they are browned 
slightly, adding the salt meanwhile. Add the cooked 
onion, and toss the onion and potato together thor- 
oughly. Serve on a hot dish. 

POTATOES, AMERICAN STYLE 

lyi cups of cold, boiled pota- K teaspoonful of salt 

toes % teaspoonful of pepper 

I cup of milk I tablespoonful of butter, 
I slice of onion creamed 

ij4 tablespoonfuls of butter i yolk of egg 
lYi tablespoonfuls of flour 

Scald the milk with the onion, cream the i yi table- 
spoonfuls of butter and beat the flour into it; dilute 
with a little of the hot milk, then stir into the rest of 
the hot milk; let cook ten minutes, stirring occasion- 
ally. Remove the Onion, add the potatoes, cut in 
slices, let become hot throughout, then carefully beat 
in the tablespoonful of butter, creamed and mixed 
with the beaten yolk. A little fine-chopped parsley 
sprinkled over the potato is a good variation. 



164 Cooking for Two 

SARATOGA POTATOES 

Select smooth potatoes of same size and long rather 
than round, and pare and cut them into thin, even 
slices. The slices must be of uniform thickness 
throughout, or they will not cook evenly. Cover the 
prepared potatoes with cold water to which a piece 
of ice has been added. Let stand an hour or longer, 
to become cold and crisp. Dry on a soft cloth, a few 
at a time, and cook at once in hot fat, keeping the 
slices separated with a skimmer. Take, for frying, 
fat that has not been previously used for frying. 
Cook to a pale straw color, drain on the skimmer, 
then on tissue paper. Keep hot at the mouth of the 
oven until all are cooked. Sprinkle with salt before 
serving. 

BREAKFAST CEREALS 

Cereals are in a dry form and much water needs to 
be added during cooking; they also contain consider- 
able tough cellulose. A high degree of heat is needed, 
to soften the cellulose, or they may be cooked at a 
lower temperature, if the time of cooking be length- 
ened. Some " breakfast foods," as those to which 
the term " rolled " is applied, are partly " steam- 
cooked " and half an hour's cooking will generally 
suffice for these. Wheat germ meal and other similar 
preparations need an hour's cooking; oatmeal and 
corn meal call for six to eight hours and if cooked 
in a double boiler longer cooking is advisable. Rice 
boiled in water, as potatoes, will cook in about the 



Cooking for Two 165 

same time as potatoes, from twenty to thirty minutes. 
It will take about forty-five minutes to cook rice in 
a double boiler. Salt — a teaspoonful to a pint — 
should be added to the water in which cereals are to 
be cooked. Proportion of water needed: Cereals con- 
taining a goodly proportion of gluten call for less 
water than those in which gluten is replaced by starch. 
In general four times the weight of the cereal in water 
is needed. Thus, one cup of cereal, weighing half 
a pound, would call for two pounds, or a quart, of 
water. When cooking Vitos and other cereals, rich 
in gluten, cut down the water to three or three and 
one-half cups. 

METHOD OF COOKING CEREALS 

Turn the requisite quantity of boiling water — as 
a pint — into the upper part of a double boiler, add 
a teaspoonful of salt (to the pint) and wait until the 
water reboils ; then stir vigorously while slowly turn- 
ing half a cup of cereal into the water. Do not add 
the cereal fast enough to stop the boiling of the water. 
Stir and let boil five minutes, then set it into the lower 
part of the double boiler in which boiling water has 
been poured to one-third the height, cover the cereal 
and let cook over the boiling water the requisite time. 
Add boiling water to the outer kettle, as needed to 
surround the inner kettle, without its boiling over. 
Do not stir the cereal after the first five minutes. 
When cooked the cereal should be rather stiff. If 
it be soft and mushy, it is not readily masticated. 



166 Cooking for Two 

RICE, SOUTHERN STYLE 
Put half a cup of rice over a quick fire in a quart of 
cold water and stir while heating the water to the 
boiling point; let boil rapidly three minutes, then 
turn the whole into a sieve and pour cold water 
through the rice, left on the sieve, and return it to the 
kettle. The rice' Is now " blanched " or cleaned. 
Add to the rice a quart of boiling water and a tea- 
spoonful of salt and let cook rapidly until the grains 
are tender. Drain the rice from the liquid and dry in 
a hot oven, shaking the dish occasionally, to separate 
the grains. A little salt sprinkled over the top of the 
rice will absorb any water remaining on the rice and 
help to make it flaky. Use the rice water for a soup. 
Add it to lamb or chicken broth. 

RICE COOKED IN DOUBLE BOILER 
Following the general rule a pint of water would 
be called for when half a cup of rice is to be cooked 
in a double boiler. If the rice be from a fresh or late 
gathered crop — thus not very dry — this may be a 
generous measure. If the cooking is to be done in 
stock or tomato puree, the above proportions will be 
about right. Rice cooked with tomato and cheese is 
given under cheese dishes. To cook in the double 
boiler, blanch the rice as in the first recipe; add the 
milk, stock or puree, preferably hot, in the upper part 
of the boiler, half a teaspoonful of salt and let cook 
until the liquid Is absorbed. Do not stir during the 
cooking. 



Cooking for Two 167 

MACARONI 
Break half a cup of macaroni into pieces about an 
inch long. Have ready over the fire a saucepan con- 
taining a quart or more of rapidly boiling water ; add 
a teaspoonful of salt and when the water reboils, 
sprinkle in the macaroni. Do not cover. If at first 
any of the macaroni sticks to the bottom of the sauce- 
pan, stir with a fork. Keep the saucepan boiling, 
adding boiling water to replenish the supply when 
needed, and the pieces of macaroni will not stick to 
the pan or to each other. When the macaroni is 
tender, turn it into a colander, to drain off the water, 
then let cold water run through it, to rinse off the 
pasty exterior. The macaroni is now ready to be 
finished after any formula desired; but no matter 
how the macaroni (and other similar preparations) 
is to be served, the initial cooking is always as above. 
For recipes for cooking macaroni with cheese, see 
chapter on Cheese. In any of the recipes in which 
macaroni is combined with cheese, the cheese may be 
omitted. 

SWEET POTATOES AND SQUASH 
In sweet potatoes and squash, besides much starch, 
we have sugar to deal with. The sugar is best re- 
tained if both be cooked without paring. 

BOILED AND BAKED SWEET POTATOES 
Scrub the potatoes with a brush, cover with boiling 
water, bring quickly to the boiling point and let boil 



168 Cooking for Two 

gently until they are just cooked through, and are not 
in the least soft. Drain off the water and set them 
into the oven. Take them out, one by one, to peel, 
returning them to the oven as soon as peeled. Bake 
sweet potatoes in the same manner as white. 

BROILED SWEET POTATOES 

Cut boiled or baked sweet potatoes in halves, 
lengthwise, spread the flat sides with butter and set 
to cook in a well-oiled broiler (bars rubbed with a 
buttered paper) over hot coals or under a gas burner. 
Do not set too near the heat, and turn during the 
cooking, to avoid burning. When hot throughout set 
onto a hot dish. Spread with butter, sprinkle with 
salt or salt and sugar, 

SQUASH 

Squash is better when baked or steamed than when 
boiled. When boiled set to cook without removing 
the skin, but carefully remove the seeds and strings 
connected with them. One fourth a squash, often 
much less, is all that should be cooked at one time. 
Let boil until tender, then drain off the water and set 
the squash, on a tin plate, skin side up, in the oven, to 
dry off. Scrape the pulp from the shell, and press it 
through a ricer into a saucepan ; add half a teaspoon- 
ful (for a pint) of salt and two or three tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, also a little black pepper if approved. 
Stir the squash over the fire until well mixed, then 
turn into a hot dish. 



Cooking for Two 169 

STEAMED SQUASH 

Prepare as for boiling. As the squash is cooked 
over and not in the water, a longer time for cooking 
is required. Season and finish as Boiled Squash. 

BAKED SQUASH 

If the shell is not too hard, the squash may be cut 
in pieces about the size of a potato. Remove seeds 
and stringy portions, then set to bake on the grate of 
an oven suitable in temperature for baking potatoes. 
The squash will bake in about forty minutes. Re- 
move to a hot dish. Serve and eat as baked potatoes. 
Baked squash is particularly good with beefsteak. 



VEGETABLES CONTAINING LITTLE 
STARCH 

CELERY, HOLLANDAISE STYLE 

1 cup of cooked celery (nearly % teaspoonful of salt 

a pint of uncooked) % teaspoonful of pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter I teaspoonful of lemon juice 
2 yolks of eggs 

Use trimmed stalks of well-bleached celery; cut 
these into pieces half or three-fourths an inch long. 
Let simmer in water to cover until tender. Renew 
water as is needed during the cooking ; when the cel- 
ery is tender there should not be more than a cup of 
water with it. Cream the butter ; add the salt, pepper 
and one yolk; beat in this yolk, then add the other, 



170 Cooking for Two 

■and when evenly mixed, stir Into the cooked celery; 
let stand over hot water or on the back of the range 
while the mixture is being added; add the lemon 
juice. Serve at once in a hot dish or on slices of toast. 
The lemon may be omitted. 

CREAMED CELERY 

1 cup of cooked celery i cup of milk, less the celery 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter water 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour 2 slices of toast 

>4 teaspoonful of salt Boiling salted water 

J4 teaspoonful of pepper Butter 

Cook the celery as above, but reduce the water till 
but little remains. Measure the water and use this 
with milk or cream to fill a cup as the liquid in making 
a sauce. Stir the cooked celery Into the sauce. Dip 
the toast in boiling, salted water, set on plates, spread 
with butter and pour the celery and sauce over the 
toast. For a more hearty supper or luncheon dish 
set poached eggs above the celery. 

SPINACH 

Carefully cut off the roots, discard discolored 
leaves, but retain the inner heart-leaves that are not 
fully opened. Wash in many waters ; wash from one 
pan to another as long as sand is seen in the bottom 
of the pans. If the spinach is wilted, let it freshen, 
after it is trimmed, by standing In cold water, before 
beginning to wash it. Finally rinse from a pan of 
clean water Into a saucepan. Sprinkle a teaspoonful 




Cold Baked "Bean Saxdwick, Clvb Style. — Page iSs- 





^^^^ 


■1 




■■ 


j^y^w 


M«i ^wtSt^h' ^^Ba^^^ 




IT^ 


^^9^w 




'I I .li^Sh' " ".^ .- . *y^^^ 




^k 


mm 




« '«^ JKr ^rJ^^B 


^f^x' 








-^-^^ '-^ 


& . 








._ _.._.„._ ■■■"'^ 



Corn Fritters \\ ith Creamkd Cihckln'. - — /'u,i,'.' lyg. 




Masked Potato. — Page iOd. 




Lima Beans FJaki-.d with Salt Pokk. — Page 1S2. 




I'^RYiKG Saratoga Potatoes. — Page 164. 




Baked Potatoes. — Page 160. 



Cooking for Two 171 

of salt over the top and set to cook. Press the spinach 
down in the saucepan as it becomes heated, and turn 
it over, that all the leaves may become heated, and 
cook without adding other water than clings to the 
leaves from the washing. When done turn into a 
colander, press out the juice and dispose in a mound 
on a serving dish. Serve as " greens." One-fourth 
a peck is enough to buy at one time. 

CHOPPED SPINACH 

Prepare, cook and drain the spinach as above, then 
chop very fine (in a wooden bowl) ; add a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, one-fourth a teaspoonful, each, of salt 
and pepper and return to the saucepan ; stir over the 
jire until the spinach is hot throughout; turn into a 
vegetable dish and dispose on it a hard-cooked egg, 
shelled and cut in halves lengthwise. 

LEFT OVER SPINACH 

Press the chopped spinach very compactly into two 
small cups and set aside in a cool place. Turn from 
the cups onto lettuce leaves. Serve with French dress- 
ing or with oil and vinegar. 

GREEN SHELL BEANS 

(Lima, Cranberry, Kidney, etc.) 

Put the shelled beans over the fire in boiling, salted 
water to cover; let boil five minutes, then simmer 
until tender. It will take an hour or an hour and a 



172 Cooking for Two 

half. When tender the water should be nearly evap- 
orated. Add salt (half a teaspoonful to a pint), 
black pepper and two tablespoonfuls of butter or one- 
fourth a cup of cream. 

STRING BEANS 

Snip off the ends, at the same time pulling off the 
strings if present, break into two or three pieces or 
put several beans together on a meat board and with 
a sharp knife cut all at once into about three pieces. 
Wash in cold water, drain and set to cook in boiling, 
salted water. It will take about two hours. String 
beans should be cooked when freshly gathered, other- 
wise make ready for cooking and let stand an hour 
or more in cold water. When cooked season with 
salt and pepper and add butter or cream. They are 
good in cream sauce, and, cold, make a good salad 
when dressed with oil, vinegar and a little onion juice. 

STRING BEANS WITH BACON 

Cut one or two slices of tender bacon in tiny cubes 
and cook in a frying pan to a delicate brown. Add a 
pint of hot, cooked-and-drained string beans and if 
liked a grating of onion or a few drops of onion juice. 
Shake the frying pan, to mix thoroughly. Add half 
a teaspoonful of salt and one-fourth a teaspoonful of 
pepper and turn into a hot dish. Peas and Lima 
beans (fresh or dried) may be prepared in the same 
way. 



Cooking for Two 173 

VEGETABLES CONTAINING SUGAR WITH 
LITTLE STARCH 

For general directions in regard to cooking, see first pages of 
the chapter. 

GREEN PEAS 

If possible do not shell the peas until just before it 
is time to cook them. Add boiling water to just cover 
the peas; add salt, half a teaspoonful to a pint of 
water, and let the contents of the saucepan simmer 
until the peas are tender. It will take about twenty 
minutes. When the peas are cooked the water should 
be reduced to a few spoonfuls. Add one or two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, a little black pepper and 
serve at once. 

GREEN PEAS, CREAMED 

Cook as above and pour over a cup and a half of 
peas a scant cup of white sauce. Make the sauce 
after the usual formula, but as there will be a little 
liquid in the peas, use a little less liquid in making the 
sauce. Rich milk or thin cream may be used for the 
sauce. 

CANNED PEAS 

Turn the peas from the can into a sieve and let the 
water from the cold water faucet run through them. 
Drain, add a few spoonfuls of boiling water, a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt and one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of black pepper. Cover close 
and let become very hot ; then serve at once. Canned 
peas may also be stirred into cream sauce. 



174 Cooking for Two 

ASPARAGUS 

Scrape the scales and skin from the lower end of 
the asparagus stalks, then shorten (cut off) each 
stalk at the point where it begins to be tough. Tie 
the stalks in a bundle and set to cook in a small quan- 
tity of boiling, salted water. In the upper part of 
a double boiler the stalks may stand upright, the ten- 
der tips, which require the least cooking, being out 
of the water, will cook in the steam. Thirty to forty 
minutes' cooking is needed. If the stalks lie flat in 
water, they will cook in twenty or twenty-five minutes. 
Have ready two slices of toasted bread ; dip the edges 
of the toast in the asparagus water and set them on 
the serving dish; dispose the asparagus on the toast 
and set into the oven. Beat two tablespoonfuls of 
butter to a cream ; beat in two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
dilute with a little of the asparagus liquid, then stir 
Into the rest of the liquid; let boil five or six minutes; 
add another tablespoonful of butter, salt if needed, 
and pour over the asparagus and toast. 



ASPARAGUS AS PEAS 

Prepare the asparagus stalks as before, then cut 
them into half inch pieces. Cook in boiling, salted 
water to cover. Do not add water unless necessary to 
keep the vegetable from burning. When cooked add, 
for a pint, one-fourth a teaspoonful of pepper, salt if 
needed and two or three tablespoonfuls of butter. 



Cooking for Two 175 

STEWED TOMATOES 

Pare two ripe tomatoes, cut in slices, and set over 
the fire in a small saucepan ; cover and let cook while 
one-fourth a cup of cracker or soft bread crumbs are 
made ready; add these to the tomatoes with half a 
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Let cook 
until the tomatoes are soft; add two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and mix thoroughly. One-fourth a green or 
red pepper pod, cut in thin slivers, may be put with 
the tomatoes when they are set to cook. 

STEWED TOMATOES WITH CORN, MEXICAN 
STYLE 

3 tomatoes i cup of fresh boiled com, cut 

1 tablespoonful of butter from the cob 

J4 sweet pepper i tablespoonful of butter 

Yi teaspoonful of salt 

Peel the tomatoes and cut in quarters, discarding 
the seeds. Melt the butter in a frying pan ; add the 
pepper, chopped fine, and let cook without browning. 
Add the tomato and salt and let cook until very hot 
throughout, add the corn, the last tablespoonful of 
butter and more salt if needed. 

BROILED TOMATOES 

2 or 3 firm, ripe tomatoes Butter 

Salt and pepper Sifted bread crumbs 

Cut out the hard center around the stem end of the 
tomatoes, then cut each in two slices. Dip the cut 



176 Cooking for Two 

side of the tomatoes in melted butter, dredge lightly 
with salt and pepper — then press into soft, sifted 
bread crumbs (taken from center of stale loaf) , broil 
over coals or under a gas burner until soft throughout. 
In broiling under a gas burner, have the skin side of 
the tomato down. Dispose on a hot dish; put a bit 
of butter on the top of each slice and serve at once. 

BEETS 
Young and tender beets are very palatable, they 
contain a large proportion of sugar, which should be 
carefully retained during cooking. Scrub and wash 
with great care, to avoid breaking the skin. If the 
skin be broken, the juices of the beet will pass into the 
water and nothing but fiber be left for serving. Old 
beets or beets that have been slow in growing can 
rarely be cooked tender. Young beets should cook in 
three or four hours. When tender drain and cover 
with cold water; push the skin from the beets with 
the hands, then cut in slices. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and add bits of butter, here and there. The 
beets may be chopped rather coarse instead of sliced. 

PICKLED BEETS 

Cover the left-over beets sliced for dinner with cold 
vinegar, cover and set aside. In cool weather pickled 
beets may be kept two or three days. Figures may be 
cut from slices of pickled beet and used to decorate 
cabbage, potato, fish and other salads. 



Cooking for Two 177 

GREEN CORN 

The principal compound in green corn is sugar, and 
great pains should be taken to preserve this. If the 
sugar be lost, the corn is tasteless. Probably there is 
no vegetable that requires such careful handling as 
green corn. It should go from the parent stalk to 
the saucepan or fire. Left husked or unhusked in a 
hot kitchen an hour or two and the sweetness has 
departed. 

BOILED CORN 

Have the water boiling and salted; put in the ears, 
from which the husk and silk have been taken, heat 
quickly to the boiling point and let boil rapidly five 
minutes. Remove from the saucepan with a fork or 
skimmer. 

CREAMED CORN AU GRATIN 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter ^ cup of milk 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour i^ cups of green corn pulp 

^ teaspoonful of salt ^ cup of cracker crumbs 

^ teaspoonful of black pepper 2 tablespoonfuls of melted but- 

or a slice of green or red ter 

pepper, chopped fine 

Make a sauce of the butter, flour, salt, pepper and 
milk ; stir in the com, fresh cut from the cob, and turn 
into a buttered baking dish. Mix the cracker crumbs 
with the melted butter and spread over the corn mix- 
ture. Let bake until the crumbs are brown. To get 
the pulp, with a sharp knife cut down through the 
center of the kernels, lengthwise of the rows, then 



178 Cooking for Two 

with the back of the knife scrape out the pulp, or, if 
the corn be very tender, cut off and reserve the tops 
of the kernels, then press out the pulp and use both 
together. 

GREEN CORN, CREOLE STYLE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter i cup of corn pulp 

I slice of onion, chopped fine I teaspoonful of fine-chopped 

1 slice pepper pod, chopped fine parsley 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour i or 2 yolks of eggs, when de- 
^ cup of tomato puree sired 

Yi teaspoonful of salt 

Melt the butter and in it cook the chopped onion 
and pepper until softened and yellowed; add the 
flour, stir until blended, then add the tomato puree 
and salt ; stir until smooth and boiling, then add the 
corn and parsley; stir until boiling throughout, then 
serve at once. For a more substantial dish add at the 
last, the beaten yolks of one or two eggs. Do not boil 
after the egg is added. If more convenient the flour 
may be omitted and two tomatoes, peeled and cut in 
small pieces, may replace the puree. 

GREEN CORN CUSTARD 

I egg Vi cup of sugar 

I cup of corn pulp (fresh or y^ teaspoonful of salt 

canned) 2 cups of milk 

Yi cup of cracker crumbs 

Beat the egg and add the other ingredients in the 
order enumerated. Bake nearly an hour in a very 



Cooking for Two 179 

slow oven. Serve hot with butter at luncheon or 

supper. 

GREEN CORN CUSTARD, No. 2 

i^ tablespoonfuls of corn meal ^ teaspoonful of salt 

54 cup of cold milk i tablespoonful of butter 

I cup of scalded milk i cup of corn pulp (generous 
I tablespoonful green pepper measure, canned or fresh) 

(chopped fine) i egg, well beaten 

Stir the corn meal with the cold milk and cook in 
the hot milk (over hot water) ; stir until the mixture 
thickens, then remove from the fire, add the other 
ingredients and mix thoroughly and turn into a dish 
suitable to send to the table. 

Set on several folds of paper, in a baking dish, 
surround with boiling water, and let cook until the 
center is firm. Serve hot as a vegetable with meat or 
with bread and butter at luncheon or supper. 

CORN FRITTERS 

I egg, beaten light ^ cup of pastry flour 

I cup of corn pulp (fresh or J4 teaspoonful of baking pow- 

canned) der 

y^ teaspoonful of salt Salt pork fat or olive oil 

Yi cup of milk or cream 

To the beaten egg add the corn pulp and milk or 
cream. Sift together the flour, salt and baking pow- 
der and mix thoroughly. Fry as griddle cakes in a 
little salt pork fat or olive oil. Or, have hot fat in 
a Scotch bowl, dip a tablespoonful in the hot fat, 
drain carefully, then take up a spoonful of the mix- 



180 Cooking for Two 

ture and with a second spoon push it into the hot fat ; 
fry to an amber color. 

CORN CHOWDER 

I slice of fat salt pork i^ cups of hot milk 

I small onion 3 tablespoonfuls of butter 

lyi cups of corn pulp 54 teaspoonful of salt 

I cup of sliced potatoes Black pepper 

Cut the pork in tiny bits and cook the fat from it 

in a frying pan; add the onion, peeled and cut in 

very thin slices, and let cook until yellowed. In the 

meanwhile pour boiling water over the potatoes, heat 

quickly to the boiling point and let boil three or four 

minutes, then drain, rinse in cold water and drain 

again. Pour a cup of boiling water over the onion 

and pork and let simmer three or four minutes, then 

strain this water over the potatoes, squeezing out all 

the juice; then discard the onion and pork. After 

the potatoes have been boiling five minutes add the 

corn and let the whole boil till the potatoes are tender, 

then add the hot milk, salt, pepper and butter. Serve 

with crackers. 

SUCCOTASH 

I cup of stewed beans (prefer- 3 tablespoonfuls of butter 

ably Lima) % teaspoonful of pepper 

ij4 cups of corn pulp % to yi cup of cream 

J4 teaspoonful of salt 

Succotash may be made from fresh or dried beans. 
In both cases the beans should first be cooked until 
tender, then add the corn pulp and cook about five 



Cooking for Two 181 

minutes after boiling begins. Add the butter and 
seasonings. If there be enough liquid with the beans, 
the cream may be omitted. Succotash is eaten with 
a spoon, but it should not be at all sloppy. 

DRIED VEGETABLES CONTAINING 
NITROGEN (PROTEIN) 

DRIED LIMA BEANS 

Yi cup of dried Lima beans 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

Cold water i^ teaspoonful of black pepper 

H teaspoonful of salt 

Soak the beans over night in about a quart of cold 
water. Wash and set to cook in boiling water to 
cover well ; heat to the boiling point, then let simmer 
(covered) until tender, replenishing the water as 
needed. When cooked there should be only a little 
thick liquid in the pan. Add salt about half an hour 
before the beans are cooked. Cook three or four 
hours. Add the butter and pepper and shake the pan 
to distribute through the beans. Cooked Lima beans 
make excellent salad and soup. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

1 pint of pea beans 2 tablespoonfuls of molasses 

I teaspoonful of bi-carbonate i teaspoonful of mustard 

of soda I teaspoonful of salt 
J4 pound of salt pork 

Let the beans stand in cold water over night; wash 
and rinse in several waters. Parboil until a pin will 



182 Cooking for Two 

pierce the beans. Change the water during the par- 
boiling, adding the soda with the last water. Rinse 
thoroughly. Put half the beans in the bean pot. 
Pour scalding water over the pork, scrape the rind 
thoroughly, wash in the water, then score the rind 
in half inch strips (for cutting in slices when cooked) . 
Put the pork on the beans in the pot, and pour in the 
rest of the beans. Mix the molasses, salt and mus- 
tard with hot water to pour and turn over the beans. 
Then add boiling water to cover. Bake about eight 
hours in a moderate oven. Keep the beans covered 
with water and the cover on the pot until the last 
hour. Then remove the cover, and bring the pork 
to the top, to brown the rind. Less than a pint of 
beans can not be baked very successfully. 



LIMA BEANS BAKED WITH SALT PORK 

Parboil one quart of lima beans with half a pound 
of salt pork. Take out the pork, and score It in slices 
for serving. Then turn the beans into a baking-dish. 
Set the pork in the center, and bake until the beans 
are tender. Do not have the beans too moist when 
ready for the oven. Cover the dish for a time with 
an agate plate, then remove the plate to crisp the 
beans and pork. Use with the pork beans that are 
rather old and require at least two hours' cooking. 
Dried beans soaked over night in cold water may be 
used after an hour of parboiling. Parboil young, 
tender beans about twenty minutes. Add butter, pep- 



Cooking for Two 183 

per, and salt, and bake nearly an hour. Do not use 
pork with young beans, unless it be first cooked by 
itself two or more hours. 

COLD BAKED -BEAN SANDWICH, CLUB STYLE 

Butter two slices of Boston brown bread;* on one 
of these dispose a heart-leaf of lettuce holding a tea- 
spoonful of salad dressing; above the dressing set a * 
generous tablespoonful of cold, baked beans, then 
another lettuce leaf and dressing; then finish with a 
second slice of bread, a tablespoonful of beans, a 
floweret of cauliflower, and a teaspoonful of the 
dressing over the cauliflower. 

VEGETABLES "WITH STARCH IN FORM OF 
CELLULOSE 

For general directions see beginning of the chapter. 

BOILED PARSNIPS, BUTTERED 

Parsnips are much sweeter in the spring than in the 

fall. To prepare wash and scrape until clean. Set 

to cook in boiling water and continue the boiling until 

nearly tender, then add salt and finish cooking. Cut 

in halves, lengthwise, the parsnips will cook in about 

half an hour; left whole it will take nearly an hour. 

Drain carefully, sprinkle with salt and add plenty of 

butter. 

BOILED PARSNIPS, SAUTED 

Scrub the parsnips with a brush, without scraping 
or cutting them in halves. Let boil until tender, then 



184 Cooking for Two 

drain, cover with cold water and with the hands slip 
off the skin. Cut into slices three-fourths an inch 
thick and set to cook in a frying pan containing about 
three spoonfuls of fat tried out from salt pork. Let 
cook until browned on one side, then turn, to brown 
the other side. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS 

(Left over parsnips) 

I cup of parsnip puree i egg, beaten light 

J4 teaspoonful of salt Salt pork or bacon fat 

% teaspoonful of pepper 

Press the cooked parsnips through a gravy strainer, 
set into part of a double boiler (into which it fits). 
Use a wooden pestle ; to the puree add the salt, pep- 
per and egg (often the white may be omitted, the 
yolk being sufJSIcient to hold the pulp together) and 
mix thoroughly; shape into small flat cakes. Have 
ready a frying pan containing a little hot fat; cook 
the cakes until brown on one side, then turn to brown 
the other side. 

BOILED TURNIPS 

Pare the turnips and cut them in slices from half to 
a whole inch thick. Set to cook in boiling water with- 
out salt. When nearly tender add salt and cook until 
tender. Serve with butter, or, drain carefully, then 
mash with a pestle, add salt and butter and stir over 
the fire until very hot. 



Cooking for Two 185 

BOILED TURNIPS, CREAMED 

Cut the boiled turnips into half inch cubes. For a 
generous cup of cubes prepare a cup of cream sauce. 
Pour the sauce over the cubes and let stand over hot 
water until very hot. 



STRONG JUICED VEGETABLES 

ONIONS 

Hold the onions under the water from the faucet 
while peeling. Set to cook in a large saucepan of 
boiling water. After boiling half an hour, pour off 
the water and again add a generous quantity of 
boiling water. Let cook rapidly, uncovered, until 
tender. Add salt when the water is changed. Season 
with salt, black pepper and butter. For Creamed 
Onions, pour over four hot boiled onions about three- 
fourths a cup of hot cream sauce. 



CHAPTER XII 

INTRODUCING THE GREAT FUEL FOODS: FATS 
(cream, BUTTER, OLIVE OIL AND SALADS) 

Fats form the third great class of food stuffs; these 
are represented in our bodies in the form of fatty 
tissue. Fatty tissue is made up of a mass of albu- 
minous cells, containing oil and held together by a 
slight framework of connective tissue. The oil in 
nuts, olives and seeds is, in the same way, held in cells 
connected together by a framework of connective 
tissue. Fat and oil are practically the same thing, 
fat being oil in a solid state and oil being fat in a 
liquid state. 

THE USES OF FATS IN THE BODY 

As fat contains about eighty per cent, of carbon, 
largely available as a source of heat, fats would seem 
to be indicated for use in cold rather than in warm 
weather, and in a cold climate rather than in the 
reverse. Still this compound is a necessity for people 
even in hot climates; for growth and proper nutri- 
tion are dependent upon the ingestion of a due pro- 
portion of all the food principles. Fats lubricate the 



Cooking for Two 187 

human machine and aid in building up fatty tissue, 
which serves as a cushion for the nerves, and provides 
a reserve store of material to furnish heat and energy 
in time of need. During convalescence from severe 
acute disorders, and while suffering from chronic 
wasting diseases, fats in larger measure are a neces- 
sity. In both cases an easily digested form of fat 
Is called for. 



FORMS OF FATS USED AS FOOD 

1. Fatty tissue In the form of bacon, the exterior 
of roasts, steaks and chops, or of boiled ham, corned 
beef or mutton. 

2. The fat that is cooked from bacon and meats 
(drippings), the kidney fat of beef (suet) and pork, 
removed by heat from the fatty tissues and clarified. 

3. Oil expressed from vegetables and seeds, as olive 
and cotton-seed oil. 

4. Combinations of suet and vegetable oil, as cot- 
tolene and cotosuet. 

5. Butter and cream. 

DIGESTION OF FATS 

Starch is digested, largely, in the mouth, proteid in 
the stomach, but fats are changed but little until they 
reach the small intestine. Here the pancreatic juice, 
bile and Intestinal juice divide the fat into smaller 
and still smaller droplets; these minute droplets are 
then taken up by the cellular lining of the Intestine 



188 Cooking for Two 

and carried to the blood. Anything that aids in the 
division of the oil is helpful to its digestion and assim- 
ilation. Thus, with fat and oil, we masticate food 
that is deficient in these compounds; as lean meat, 
bread, potato and other vegetables, which tend to 
separate the masses of fatty tissue (bacon and the 
like). Or, we spread butter upon steak or bread, or 
toss hot vegetables In butter, to coat them with it, or 
turn lettuce and other green vegetables over and over 
in oil, that each leaf may glisten with it. 

WHY PASTRY AND DOUGHNUTS ARE NOT EASILY 
DIGESTED 

From what has been said above, it would seem that 
pastry, in which starch is surrounded by fat, and 
doughnuts, which are largely starch, cooked in fat, 
would form Ideal ways of presenting fat to the 
system. But fats are not affected by either saliva or 
gastric juice, and, if starch be permeated through 
and through with fat, how is the saliva to get at the 
starch to digest it? If the doughnuts be so made and 
fried that the fat does not penetrate the dough, the 
principal objection to this form of food Is removed, 
but pastry cannot be called a hygienic form of food. 
It should be reserved for occasional use and not pre- 
sented In daily bills of fare. 

DIGESTIBILITY OF FATS AND OILS 
In health all forms of fat. In moderation, are 
usually well digested, but they produce satiety earlier 




German Apple Cl'p. — Page 2og. 




Beets Stuffed with L aeu^.m;!":: - and - Xut Salad. — Fogc 206. 




How TO Beat C«lam. —Page 1(^4. 




Potato Salad, pRrtxcH Styte. - — Page ^-^ 




Egg Salad for I'wo. — Page 204. 



Cooking for Two 189 

in a meal than do other food compounds. Good 
butter, cream and cod liver oil are the forms of fat 
most easily digested. All fats heated to a certain 
temperature (i.e., to the smoking point), which 
varies with the kind of fat, become decomposed, and 
some of the products evolved, when the fat is in- 
gested, occasion irritation of the mucous membrane 
throughout the digestive tract, and, consequently, in- 
digestion. Hence, the greatest care must be taken 
that fats be not overcooked. This is one reason why 
fried foods may be harmful, and why butter, which 
is quickly affected by heat, is more wholesome when 
uncooked than when cooked. Used with steak, vege- 
tables, etc., the heat of the article, upon which it is 
spread, is all that should be applied to it. 



EFFECT OF HEAT ON FATS 

Melt butter or drippings over the fire and they will 
foam and bubble, as if boiling; continue the heating, 
and the bubbling ceases, the fat becoming still. If 
we tested the fat with a thermometer we should find 
that, when it was still, the temperature was consider- 
ably above the boiling point of water (212° F.), and 
that, when it was bubbling, the temperature was about 
that of boiling water. When fat bubbles, as if boil- 
ing, it is because there is boiling water in it ; when the 
boiling ceases, water is no longer present. Fat or oil 
will bum before the boiling point is reached. When 
all the water present in fat or oil has evaporated and 



190 Cooking for Two 

the fat is still, it grows hot very fast, rising to 300° 
or 400° F. Olive oil may be heated even to 600° F. 
If we put a piece of dough into fat that is bubbling, 
we find that it absorbs fat and does not take on any 
color; but, if we put the dough into fat that is still, 
it becomes brown in a few moments, and, if prop- 
erly mixed, does not absorb fat. In reality, the higher 
the temperature to which we can raise the fat without 
its burning, the more quickly will the exterior of the 
article to be cooked be browned and hardened so as 
to exclude the fat. Olive oil can be heated to a tem- 
perature of about 600'' F. before it burns, and thus 
it is the ideal fat for frying purposes. On account 
of the cost it is not generally used for this purpose. 
Lard is the fat that is next best for frying, then comes 
drippings from meat, then suet, while butter is the 
least desirable medium for frying. 

HOW TO TEST THE TEMPERATURE OF FAT FOR 
FRYING 

We have noticed that we do not speak of boiling 
fat, nor do we wish to speak of smoking, hot fat; 
for, when fat smokes, it is burning and is too hot for 
use ; nor can such fat be restored to proper condition 
for future use. Food cooked in it, especially if it 
has been overheated a long time, or several times, will 
not take on appropriate color, and whatever fat is 
absorbed by the article will not be wholesome. When 
the fat becomes still, have ready some inch cubes of 
stale bread and drop one of these into the fat. If 



Cooking for Two 191 

the cube of bread becomes a golden brown, while you 
count forty, as the clock ticks, the fat is at the right 
temperature for croquettes, fish-balls, small fish, like 
brook trout and smelts, or small fillets of fish and 
oysters. If it takes sixty seconds to brown the cube 
of bread, the fat is at the proper temperature for 
frying fritters, doughnuts and other similar mixtures 
of uncooked ingredients. You may think the fat 
should not be as hot for frying fillets of raw fish and 
oysters as for croquettes, made of cooked ingredients, 
which are simply to be reheated. But fish and oysters, 
being cold, will cool the fat so that longer cooking 
will be needed to secure the right color for the exte- 
rior, and the proper cooking of the article. 

PREPARATION OF FOOD FOR FRYING 

Heat, as we know, coagulates and hardens albu- 
minous substances ; thus, if we cover an article to be 
fried with a substance rich in albumen, as eggs, or 
even less rich, as milk, and plunge it into hot fat, a 
covering will be produced that will keep out the fat 
perfectly. With the egg, we use sifted bread crumbs; 
with the milk, we use flour or meal. The starch in 
the flour, meal or crumbs, is changed by the heat to 
caramel, and a well-tasting crust is formed. A thin 
coating is all that is essential. The juices of chops 
and oysters, thus protected, can not pass out into the 
fat any more than the fat can enter, thus such articles 
when properly fried are particularly juicy and well- 



192 Cooking for Two 

flavored. It should be needless to add, that the cover- 
ing must be complete at every point, and that the fat 
must be deep enough to cover the articles to be cooked 
in it. 

The dough for fritters, doughnuts and the like, 
must contain enough egg to keep out fat heated to 
the proper temperature for frying. Croquettes, oys- 
ters and the like, are often placed In a basket, so that 
three or four may be lowered into the fat and re- 
moved from it at the same time. The articles must 
not touch each other, or steam will be produced, 
which will moisten the crisp crust. Drain carefully, 
in the basket, over the kettle of fat, then remove to 
soft paper for the final draining. 

TRYING OUT AND CLARIFYING FATS 

Cut the fat in small pieces, cover with cold water 
and let stand over night; pour off this water, add 
fresh water or milk — a cup to each two pounds of 
fat — and let cook very slowly until the pieces are 
light brown in color, and the fat is clear and still (no 
sound of bubbling or cooking) . Strain through a 
cloth and press the fat from the pieces for a second 
quality of fat. 

FAT FROM COOKED MEAT, THE SOUP 
KETTLE, ETC. 

When the liquid Is cold, remove the fat to a sauce- 
pan, add part or a whole cup of cold water and let 
cook slowly, until the water has evaporated and the 



Cooking for Two 193 

sound of cooking has ceased, then strain through a 
cloth. Much of the flavor and odor of the fat passes 
off in the water during its evaporation. Slices of 
raw potato may be used instead of water to clarify 
fat. It is probably the evaporation of the water in 
the potato that is responsible for the clarification. 

HOW TO TREAT FAT AFTER FRYING 

After the frying is finished, remove the fat to a 
cool place and let it settle. Crumbs or flour, left in 
fat and reheated with it, will burn long before the 
fat is hot enough for frying, and spoil the fat. When 
the fat is cool, pour it carefully from the sediment in 
the bottom, through one or two folds of cheese cloth 
laid over a colander or sieve, add cold water or slices 
of potato and clarify as above. Wipe out the kettle 
with soft paper, wash and dry, and when the fat is 
again cool, return it to the kettle. A round-bottomed 
Scotch bowl (iron) is the best utensil for frying. 

FATS AND OILS USED IN THE PRESERVATION 
OF FOOD 

Fats and oils may be used to advantage in the 
preservation of many kinds of food; these by ex- 
cluding air prevent the drying or decomposition of 
the food that is covered with them. After a bottle 
of olives or pimentos has been opened and a part of 
the contents used, the remainder may be kept as long 
as the oil remains in good condition — often six 
months or longer — by simply putting into the bottle 



194 Cooking for Two 

or can a few spoonfuls of oil that may float — a thin 
layer of oil — on the top of the liquid. So a layer 
of oil over fish — as sardines — preserves them for 
a long time. Potted meats and pate-de-foie-gras are 
kept by means of lard or butter, which is melted and 
poured over the articles, when they are put up. Of 
course all articles preserved in this way should be 
stored in a cool place. 

CREAM 

Both cream and cream transformed into butter are 
considered particularly digestible forms of fat. The 
volume of a certain quantity of cream is increased by 
beating. This process, probably, renders the cream 
a little more digestible, as it also makes it more at- 
tractive. Cream taken from the top of the milk can, 
or after the milk has stood about twelve hours, is 
called thin, or single cream. Such cream cannot be 
beaten very firm; it contains too much milk and is 
not thick enough. Cream taken from milk that has 
been standing twenty-four hours is called double, 
heavy or thick cream. This may be beaten " to stand 
alone," or until it is solid to the bottom of the bowl. 
Thin cream is beaten with a whip churn; this con- 
tains a dasher, which is moved up and down in the 
cylinder. The froth is removed as it rises to the 
surface. Thick cream may be beaten most quickly 
with a Dover egg beater. To keep the cream from 
spattering," cover the bowl with a circular sheet 



(I 



Cooking for Two 195 

of paper, and let the top of the beater emerge from 
a hole In the center. 



TO THICKEN THIN CREAM 
Pasteurized or other thin cream may be thickened 
by a solution of lime in sugar (viscogen) and then 
whipped to a stiff froth with a Dover egg beater. 

To make the viscogen, dissolve five ounces of sugar 
in ten ounces of water. Add six ounces of cold water 
to two ounces of quicklime, and let it gradually slake ; 
then strain through a fine sieve to remove unslaked 
particles; combine the two liquids and shake occa- 
sionally for two hours. In three hours set the mix- 
ture aside to settle, then siphon, or pour off, the clear 
liquid. Store in small bottles, filling each full and 
stoppering tight as the liquid absorbs carbonic acid 
from the air, thus darkening the color and reducing 
the strength. Use one-fourth a teaspoonful of vis- 
cogen to three-fourths a cup of chilled cream. Stir 
the cream while adding the viscogen to it. 

BUTTER 

The cooking of butter detracts from its digesti- 
bility; thus, when it is to be used on vegetables, 
broiled meats, fish, etc., the heat it receives from the 
article upon which it is served will suffice. Butter is 
very quickly affected by heat, and will burn more 
quickly than other forms of fat; on this account, 
great care needs to be taken in its use for frying pur- 



196 Cooking for Two 

poses. For this reason, and also on account of ex- 
pense, some other form of fat is usually selected for 
cooking articles in the frying pan. When butter Is 
to be used for frying, let it heat until all froth has 
subsided, the casein, salt, etc., has been deposited on 
the bottom of the dish, and the water has evaporated. 
The liquid fat may then be poured from the sediment 
and will -keep almost indefinitely. 

By beating butter with a perforated wooden spoon 
or a silver fork, air is incorporated, which lightens it. 
In cake making this is an Important item. For quick- 
est and best results, when butter and sugar are to be 
creamed together, make the butter smooth and light 
before any of the sugar is added, then gradually beat 
the sugar into the butter. Butter Is beaten to a 
cream, when It Is of a smooth, cream-like consistency, 
and the edges look whitish. 

Creamed butter Is preferable for spreading over 
steak and chops. 



MAITRE D' HOTEL BUTTER 

(For Broiled Meats and Fish) 

Beat two tablespoonfuls of butter to a cream ; beat 
in one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper 
and half a teaspoonful of fine-chopped parsley; then 
add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, a few drops at a 
time. For red pepper butter, add in the place of the 
parsley one or two chilli peppers, chopped fine. A 
few drops of onion juice may be added. 



Cooking for Two 197 

USE OF OLIVE OIL 

Our largest use for olive oil is in the form of salad 
dressings. Occasionally butter or cream is taken for 
this purpose. Cream is well adapted for use in salad 
dressings, but as butter is too solid to coat cold vege- 
tables, it is usually made into a dressing by cooking; 
this detracts from its digestibility, and thus it is pref- 
erable not to consider it in this connection. The 
dressings that a family of two will oftenest elect are 
called French and mayonnaise dressings. French 
dressing is preferable with fruit and green vegetables, 
and, also, to season fish and meats that are after- 
wards to be served with mayonnaise dressing. A 
mayonnaise dressing is rich, and thus is used princi- 
pally at luncheons or banquets, while the lighter 
French dressing is selected for the more hearty meal 
of dinner. 

Cream, beaten solid, is added to a mayonnaise 
dressing, or, with seasonings and a little lemon juice, 
is used by itself as a salad dressing. 



FRENCH DRESSING 

3 tablespoonfuls of oil % teaspoonful of salt 

I to 3 tablespoonfuls of lemon % teaspoonful of pepper 
juice or vinegar 

The ingredients for the dressing may be mixed 
and poured at once over the salad materials, which 
are then turned over and over until the dressing has 
been taken up by them, or, the condiments, mixed 



198 Cooking for Two 

with the oil, may be first used, then, after each leaf 
or separate piece has been thoroughly coated with the 
oil, the acid may be poured on and the salad turned 
over and over until the acid is evenly mixed through- 
out. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

% teaspoonful of paprika I cup of olive oil 

% teaspoonful of salt i tablespoonful of lemon juice 

Yolk of I egg I tablespoonful of vinegar 

' Mix the salt and pepper, add the yolk of egg, and 
beat until thickened a little ; add the lemon juice and 
vinegar gradually. Use a Dover egg beater, and 
beat in the oil, a teaspoonful at a time. After a time 
the oil may be added by the tablespoonful. Beat 
thoroughly after each addition of oil, as also during 
the time the oil is being taken up by the mixture. 

Cover the dressing with an earthen or glass dish, 
and let stand in a cool place until ready to use. 

Half this quantity of dressing may be made by 
dividing the yolk of egg. The main point to be 
noted in making this dressing is, that all of the acid 
is to be added to the yolk of egg before beginning 
with the oil. By this method all danger of curdling 
is avoided. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

The yolks of 2 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar or 
Yz teaspoonful of salt lemon juice 

^ teaspoonful of sugar The white of i egg, beaten dry 

y^ teaspoonful of mustard 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

% teaspoonful of paprika Yz cup of double cream 



Cooking for Two 199 

Beat the yolks very light, add the seasoning and 
acid and stir, while cooking over hot water, until the 
mixture thickens; turn the white into the mixture 
and return the dish to the hot water (remove it while 
beating the white dry) while the two are folded to- 
gether; continue the cooking until the whole is very 
hot, then beat in the butter, a little at a time, and set 
aside to chill. When ready to serve fold in the 
cream. Remove the dressing from the fire before 
adding the butter. Use in place of mayonnaise. If 
to be used with fruit let the acid be lemon juice. 

CLEANSING AND CARE OF SALAD PLANTS 

Green vegetables and salad herbs are a main de- 
pendence in salad making. By themselves they are 
dressed as salads and are an important part of most 
salads made of cooked materials. Cooked materials 
may, with advantage, be mixed with dressing some 
hours before service, but green vegetables and herbs 
are palatable and wholesome only when fresh and 
crisp; thus if wilted, when purchased or brought in 
from the garden, they must be revived in water, and 
as all dressings tend to wilt them, dressings must not 
be added until the moment for eating the salad has 
actually arrived. Great care must be taken in wash- 
ing salad plants that are to be eaten raw ; each leaf of 
lettuce must be examined closely, to rid it of minute 
life; celery also and cabbage must be scrutinized 
with care. Each stalk of celery and leaf of lettuce 



200 Cooking for Two 

should be washed in water and Inspected separately. 
Lettuce, especially that grown in a hot house, will 
not bear rough treatment; handle the leaves deli- 
cately, rinse them in a pan of water, shake in a let- 
tuce basket or a piece of cheese cloth, then wipe dry 
with a soft cloth. Oil will not adhere to a wet sur- 
face. Lettuce may be made ready to serve some 
hours in advance, if it be set aside in a cool place, 
in a receptacle tightly closed. A tin pail of suitable 
size answers the purpose well. 

LETTUCE SALAD 

I head of lettuce ^ teaspoonful of pepper 

54 teaspoonful of salt (gener- 4 tablespoonfuls or more of oil 
ous measure) 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 

When ready to serve put the carefully washed and 
dried leaves in a salad bowl; shake over them the 
salt and pepper and pour on the oil ; with a fork and 
spoon, turn the leaves over and over until they glisten 
with oil. If the lettuce takes up all the oil, add 
another tablespoonful, and still another if it seems 
needed. Pour on the vinegar, and again turn the 
lettuce over and over. A few drops of onion juice 
may be added with the vinegar, or, beforfe putting 
the lettuce into the bowl, rub over the inner surface 
of the bowl with the cut side of half an onion or clove 
of garlic. Pepper grass may be dressed with the 
lettuce, or mustard leaves, chopped fine, may be 
sprinkled over the lettuce after it has been dressed. 



Cooking for Two 201 

CABBAGE SALAD 

Let the cabbage stand some time in cold or ice 
water. Slice very fine, season with salt and paprika, 
or, omit the paprika and use a green or red pepper, 
sliced fine, or small preserved peppers, chopped fine. 
Remove the seeds from the peppers before chopping. 
Mix mayonnaise or a boiled dressing with the cab- 
bage when it is ready to serve. 

TOMATO SALAD 

Peel the tomatoes, cover closely, and set aside in 
a cool place, to become chilled. Before serving, cut 
large tomatoes in halves, crosswise. Any dressing 
may be used. 

PEPPER -AND -ONION SALAD 

Plunge a green or red pepper into boiling water, 
remove at once and rub off the thin outer skin; set 
the pepper aside in a cool place, to become chilled and 
crisp. Cut out a piece around the stem, and take out 
the seeds and veins. Then cut the pepper round and 
round in the thinnest rings possible ; cut half a small, 
mild and tender young onion in exceedingly thin 
slices and separate these into rings. Sprinkle the 
whole with a little salt and pepper, perhaps one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of each, then pour on two table- 
spoonfuls of oil ; mix and crush the vegetables in the 
oil, adding another tablespoonful if needed. Lastly 
add about half a tablespoonful of vinegar and mix 



202 Cooking for Two 

again. Serve on heart leaves of tender lettuce. Serve 
with roast beef, lamb, etc. 



ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Yi head of lettuce 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of olive 
I dozen stalks of cooked as- oil 

paragus I or 2 tablespoonfuls of vine- 
I hard-cooked white of egg gar 

(Use hard-cooked yolk for an- 54 teaspoonful of salt 

other dish) Vi teaspoonful of pepper 

• 4 slices of pickled beet Yi a clove of garlic 

Put the washed, dried and crisped lettuce onto a 
serving dish, and dispose above the asparagus with 
heads all the same way. Cut the shelled egg in slices, 
and use these as they are as a band over the aspar- 
agus, or, remove the yolk for another dish and set in 
its place figures cut from slices of pickled beet. Rub 
a bowl with the garlic; in it mix the dressing and 
pour it over the salad and serve at once. 

RUTABAGA TURNIP SALAD 

I cup of cooked turnip cut y^. head of lettuce 

into half-inch cubes Yi the recipe of French dress- 

Yi tablespoonful of fine- ing, with a teaspoonful of 

chopped parsley or capers onion juice 

Mix the French dressing in a bowl ;' add the onion 
juice and mix again; pour over the turnip and mix 
with fork and spoon. Set aside to become chilled. 
Serve on the lettuce, sprinkling the top with the 
parsley or capers. 



Cooking for Two 203 

LIMA BEAN SALAD 

V/i cups of cooked Lima beans J4 teaspoonful of salt 

(fresh, canned or dried) ^ a chilli-pepper, chopped ex- 
I teaspoonful of grated onion ceedingly fine 

1 tablespoonful of fine-chopped 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of oil 

parsley i to 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 

To the beans add the onion, chilli-pepper, salt and 
parsley, and mix thoroughly; add the oil and mix, 
and then the vinegar and mix again. This salad may 
stand some time before serving. 

STRING BEAN SALAD 

Prepare as above, substituting cold, cooked string 
beans for the Lima beans. 

BAKED BEAN SALAD 

1Y2 cups of cold, baked beans 54 teaspoonful of salt 

3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of olive ]/i teaspoonful of paprika 

oil 2 tablespoonfuls of fine- 

2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar chopped olives 

2 teaspoonfuls of fine-cut 2 tiny gherkins, sliced thin and 

chives or spread like fans 

I teaspoonful of onion juice 

In slicing the gherkins do not cut the slices apart 
at the stem end; spread the slices to give the effect 
of a fan and dispose them on the salad, at the ends 
of the plate. Mix the beans with the other ingredi- 
ents, by tossing them, or turning them, over and 
over, with a spoon and fork. For a change use fine- 
chopped mustard pickles in the place of the olives. 



204 Cooking for Two 

POTATO SALAD 

V/i cups of cold, boiled pota- 2 tablespoonfuls of mustard 

toes cut in half-inch cubes pickles or piccalilli, chopped 

Yi teaspoonful of salt fine 

J4 to 1/2 teaspoonful of paprika 4 to 6 tablespoonfuls of oil 

or 2 to 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 

I slice of red or green pepper, when desired 

chopped fine 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 

1 slice of onion, chopped fine fine or 

2 tablespoonfuls of capers, Yz cup of sardines, picked in 

chopped fine bits, or 

2 tablespoonfuls of parsley, Y2 cup of anchovies, picked in 
chopped fine bits 

Sprinkle the salt over the potato and mix thor- 
oughly; then add the chopped ingredients and mix 
again; add the oil and turn the potato over and 
over until the oil is taken up; then add the vinegar 
and turn the ingredients again. Cover and set aside 
In a cool place until ready to serve. This salad should 
stand some time after mixing before it is served. 
When adding eggs, sardines or anchovies add them 
with the chopped Ingredients. 



EGG SALAD 

2 or 3 hard-cooked eggs Y2 the recipe for either French 

Yi head of lettuce or mayonnaise dressing 

Cook the eggs In the shell. See page 64. Cool 
the eggs in cold water, shell and cut them In even 
slices. Dispose the slices on the lettuce, carefully 
washed, dried and crisped, and pour over the dress- 
ing. Serve at once. 



Cooking for Two 205 

CHICKEN SALAD 

I cup of cooked chicken, cut in % cup of cucumber, cut in 
Yz inch cubes half-inch cubes 

yi cup of tender celery, cut in ^ the recipe for French dress- 
J4 inch slices or ing and 

% cup of cooked peas and About yi the recipe for mayon- 

naise dressing 

Mix the chicken with the French dressing, cover 
and set aside in a cool place for some time. When 
ready to serve drain the dressing from the chicken — 
if any be present — add the celery or the peas and 
cucumber (when celery is out of season) and mix 
with the mayonnaise dressing. Serve either with or 
without lettuce. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD, MACEDOINE STYLE 

54 cup of canned tomato % cup of cold water 

I thin slice of onion % cup tiny bits of green string 

y^ stalk of celery or a few beans 

celery leaves i olive, chopped fine or sliced 

I small piece of bay leaf i teaspoonful of capers 

I slice of red or green pepper i hard-cooked yolk of egg, 

or 5^ chilli pepper sifted, or the equivalent of 

J4 teaspoonful of salt cold chicken, veal or lamb, 

J^ tablespoonful of granulated chopped fine 

gelatine 

Simmer the tomato, onion, celery, bay leaf, pepper 
and salt ten or fifteen minutes; add the gelatine, 
softened in the cold water, and strain. Let the mix- 
ture cool, stirring occasionally, until it begins to 
thicken, then stir in the string beans (or peas), olive, 
capers and yolk of egg or the meat and turn into 



206 Cooking for Two 

small cups or moulds. It is often convenient to make 
this salad one day (as Saturday) and serve it the 
next day. To unmold see page 136. 



POTATO SALAD, FRENCH STYLE 

(To serve four or five) 

3 cups of cooked potato cubes Yz teaspoonful (generous) of 
Scant tablespoonful of grated salt 

onion 54 teaspoonful of paprika 

2 tablespoonfuls of fine- i cup of double cream 

chopped parsley 2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon 

vinegar 

To the prepared potato add the onion, parsley, 
salt and pepper; turn the ingredients over and over 
until well blended; let stand in a cool place until 
ready to serve. Beat the cream and vinegar until 
firm throughout, then mix through the potato. 



BEETS STUFFED WITH CABBAGE - AND - NUT 
SALAD 

Have ready young beets, boiled tender and skinned, 
heart leaves of a head of lettuce, washed and thor- 
oughly dried, cabbage, chopped fine with pecan nut 
meats, and either boiled, French or mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Cut out the centers of the beets and trim them, 
as needed, to make cases one-fourth an inch in thick- 
ness. Reserve the trimmings to be chopped fine, to 
garnish a salad for the next day. Mix the prepared 
cabbage and nuts with the dressing and use to fill the 




AsTuRiA Salad. — Page 210. 




I'riLi.RV - AND - Affll Salad. — I'oge S'uS. 




Asparagus Salad. — Rage ^(^s. 



Cooking for Two 207 

beet cups. Dress the lettuce with French dressing, 
and on it set the cups. Serve at once. 

Celery, cut fine, may replace the cabbage. The 
boiled dressing given on page 198 is particularly 
good with this salad. 



TOMATO - AND - CHEESE BALL SALAD 

Peel the tomatoes and cut each into two slices, or, 
if smaller tomatoes be at hand, scoop out the centers, 
to make cases. For one-third a Philadelphia cream 
cheese take two or three olives and half a chilli pep- 
per ; chop these very fine and mix through the cheese. 
Roll the cheese into small balls half an inch in diam- 
eter and dispose two or three balls on a slice of to- 
mato, resting on two heart leaves of lettuce. Pour 
two or three tablespoonfuls of French dressing over 
the articles on each plate and serve at once. 

PRUNE - AND - PECAN NUT SALAD 

^ pound of prunes 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice 

% pound of pecan nut meats % teaspoonful of salt (or 
1/2 head of lettuce more) 

4 tablespoonfuls of oil 

Soak the prunes over night in cold water; let cook 
on the back of the range until tender (and no 
longer) , when the water should be pretty thoroughly 
evaporated. When cold cut from the stones in neat 
lengthwise pieces. Cut the nuts in slices, lengthwise. 
Mix the oil, lemon juice and salt and pour over the 



208 Cooking for Two 

prunes and nuts. Mix and turn onto the lettuce. 
Serve with roast meats or with bread and butter. 

ORANGE - AND - DATE SALAD 

2 oranges 3 tablespoonfuls of oil 

14 pound of dates (scant i tablespoonful of lemon juice 

weight) J4 teaspoonful of salt 

Yz head of lettuce 

Pour boihng water over the dates to cover them 
and stir with a silver fork while the water is reheated 
to the boiling point. Skim the dates from the water 
to an agate pan and set into the oven a few moments 
to dry them. Watch carefully, as they burn easily. 
When cool enough to handle, take out the stones, 
and cut the flesh Into narrow strips. Wash and dry 
the lettuce, which should be very crisp. Dispose the 
lettuce in a salad bowl ; mix the salt, oil and lemon 
juice and pour over the dates. Let these stand while 
the oranges are peeled and cut in thin slices, length- 
wise of the orange, then mix the orange through the 
dates, adding a fourth a tablespoonful of oil, if the 
dates have absorbed the dressing poured over them. 
Dispose the fruit on the lettuce leaves and serve at 
once. Sliced figs may replace the dates. Serve with 
bread or with roast meats. 

APPLE - AND - CELERY SALAD 

I cup of apple (peeled and cut (inner stalks cut in one- 

in half-inch cubes) fourth inch slices) 

y-i tablespoonful of lemon French or mayonnaise dressing 
juice as desired 

^ to I full cup of tender celery 



Cooking for Two 209 

Mix the apple and lemon juice, to keep the apple 
from discoloring, then mix the apple and celery with 
French dressing. Use lemon juice instead of vinegar, 
in making the dressing, and allow for the lemon juice 
poured over the apple when it was cut. Instead of 
French dressing, mayonnaise may be used. One- 
fourth a cup of walnut meats, broken in pieces, may 
be added with the celery. 



GERMAN APPLE CUP (BOSTON HOTEL) 

Select fine-grained apples, one for each service ; core 
and pare, leaving on a section of the skin, in the shape 
of a ring, near one end of the apple. Cut heart-stalks 
of celery very fine, but do not chop it; mix the celery 
with mayonnaise dressing, to which half the bulk of 
whipped cream has been added; add also more salt 
and pepper. Use this mixture to fill the hollow cen- 
ters of the apples, rounding it up above the apple a 
little ; in the center of the mixture in each apple set 
a tiny heart-leaf of lettuce. Dispose the apples on 
heart-leaves of lettuce and serve at once. The ring 
of apple skin gives a little color to the dish ; the end 
of the apple on which it is left should be upward. To 
serve in perfection, when coring the apple, remove all 
the seed cavities. If the apples must stand after par- 
ing, rub over the exposed surfaces very lightly with 
the cut side of a lemon. This will prevent discolora- 
tion. 



210 Cooking for Two 

FLEUR-DE-LIS SALAD, MURRAY'S RESTAURANT, 
NEW YORK 

Cut either oranges or grapefruit in halves, cross- 
wise. With a sharp-pointed knife cut around the pulp 
in each section of the fruit. Also cut the membrane 
separating the sections and the core from the skin 
and remove all the membrane and core in one piece. 
Sprinkle over the pulp, thus left in the fruit skin, a 
few sliced walnut or pecan meats and a little French 
dressing. Set the halves of the fruit, thus prepared, 
on individual plates and in the center of each set half 
a dozen heart-leaves of French endive in an upright 
position, to imitate the fleur-de-lis. 

ASTORIA SALAD, REVISED 

1 head of endive A narrow strip of red pepper 
54 grapefruit 2 tablespoonfuls of olive oil 
Yz an orange The juice of the fruit 

2 halves of fresh or canned 54 teaspoon ful of salt 

pear Paprika if desired 

A narrow strip of green pepper 

Remove the pulp from the grapefruit and orange 
without taking the membrane. Cut the pear in 
lengthwise slices. Cut the endive in halves, length- 
wise, discard outer coarse leaves, wash with great 
care and wipe each leaf. Dispose the halves of en- 
dive on individual plates (these will resemble a spread 
fan), set the slices of pear, one almost overlapping 
another, lengthwise, at the root end of the endive; 
back of these, in the same way, the sections of orange 



Cooking for Two 211 

pulp, with the sections of grapefruit just above the 
tips of the leaves. To the juice add the olive oil and 
salt; beat together vigorously, pour over the salad 
and serve at once. 



CHAPTER XIII 

FOODS SUPPLYING MINERAL SALTS AND ORGANIC 
ACIDS, MORE PARTICULARLY FRUIT 

The foods that supply us with mineral salts and 
organic acids are found largely in the vegetable king- 
dom. Some of these are in the form of roots, leaves, 
blossoms and stems of plants; others are the seed 
vessels of the plants, and still others are the fleshy 
coverings of the seeds intended by nature as a protec- 
tion for the latter until maturity, or for the early sus- 
tenance of the young plant which sprouts from the 
seed. We speak of these foods as fruits and vege- 
tables. Properly, however, all the seed vessels are 
fruits, while the others are vegetables, but we are not 
accustomed to think of a squash or a tomato as a fruit, 
and so the distinction we make between fruits and 
vegetables seems to be largely a matter of custom. 

COMPOSITION AND FOOD VALUE OF FRUITS 

Most fresh fruits contain a large proportion of 
water, from eighty to ninety per cent, being not an 
unusual proportion. There is also considerable cellu- 
lose in fruit ; this, with other starch present in unripe 



Cooking for Two 213 

fruit, is largely changed by the ripening process into 
sugar and gums. One of these gums, pectin, corre- 
sponds to the gelatine in meats. It is this gum that 
causes fruit juice to jelly when it is cooked with sugar. 

The quantity of proteid in fruit is very small ; as 
a rule less than one per cent, is found. 

From a dietetic point of view fruits are valuable 
on account of the relatively large proportion of min- 
eral salts and organic acids which they contain; of 
the salts, potash, found also in many vegetables, is the 
most important. 

The organic acids in fruits (tartaric, malic, citric, 
etc.) impart to them an agreeable acid flavor and 
tend to keep the blood in an alkaline condition, a state 
on which good health depends. The water In fruits 
may be considered as distilled, than which no better 
source of pure water exists. 

DIGESTIBILITY OF FRUIT 

The digestibility of fruit depends largely upon the 
nature of the variety and Its degree of ripeness. An 
apple has a firmer cellular structure than a peach and 
thus the latter Is the more easily broken up and acted 
upon by the digestive fluids. Thus the peach Is very 
properly called " the children's fruit." As sugar Is 
more easily digested than starch, and as the starch 
and cellulose In ripe fruit have been largely changed 
to sugar, ripe fruit Is more easily digested than that 
which has not reached this condition. When the 
banana is in a fit condition to eat (uncooked) the skin 



214 Cooking for Two 

has become dark, at least in spots, and the pulp is 
dry and mealy. Bananas left in a paper bag will ripen 
more quickly than when left uncovered in the light. 
Cooking is a ripening process, and bananas, pears and 
apples, not sufficiently ripe to eat raw, are palatable 
and wholesome, cooked. 

FLAVOR FRUITS AND FOOD FRUITS 

Hutchison and others divide fruits from a nutri- 
tive point of view, into two groups, food fruits and 
flavor fruits. Under food fruits are classed such as 
contain more than twenty per cent, of solids. The 
best example of this group is the banana. This, in its 
fresh state, contains a little proteld and considerable 
carbohydrate. Figs, dates and raisins all belong to 
this group. Weight for weight, dried figs are said 
to be more nourishing than bread. Flavor fruits 
have little claim to be called foods; they are largely 
composed of water and are sweet and agreeable In 
flavor. Grapes constitute a class between these two 
groups, as the juice of the grape contains from ten 
to thirty per cent, of sugar. 

NUTS 

Nuts are fruits that possess high nutritive value. 
Their general composition is about as follows : 

Water . . . . 4 to 5 per cent. 

Proteid . . . . 15 to 20 " 
Fat 50 to 60 " 



Cooking for Two 215 

Carbohydrates . . . 9 to 12 per cent 

Cellulose . . . 3 to 5 " 

Mineral Matter ... i " 



The high percentage of fat in nuts and their dense 
cellular structure tend to make them difficult of di- 
gestion. To render nuts desirable as an article of 
food, artificial grinding, supplemented by cooking, is 
necessary. Walnuts, chestnuts and almonds are the 
varieties of nuts in most common use. Chestnuts 
deserve to be better known and more widely used in 
this country; they contain a high percentage of car- 
bohydrate, much proteid and fat, while almonds have 
a high percentage of nitrogenous matter and but little 
of the carbohydrate principle; thus chestnuts would 
be used in the place of bread or potatoes, and almonds 
in the place of fish or meat. 



EFFECT OF COOKING ON FRUITS 

Cooking, as we have previously noted, softens the 
cellulose in fruit and converts such starch as is pres- 
ent into sugar, thus making the fruit more digestible. 
At the same time heat drives out the mineral salts and 
the acids in the watery juices, and, if these juices be 
not retained, cooked fruit is not as valuable as un- 
cooked. Fruits preserved by drying need to be soaked 
several hours or over night in cold water, to soften 
and fill out the dried tissues. 



216 Cooking for Two 

PREPARATION OF FRESH FRUIT FOR SERVING 

Fruit exposed for sale in a market is apt to collect 
dust and should be thoroughly washed before it is 
eaten. Hull strawberries, raspberries and blackber- 
ries, then rinse quickly in cold water and drain at 
once. Rinse grapes in cold water, to which a small 
quantity of salt has been added, then rinse again in 
pure, fresh water. All fruit, except that freshly gath- 
ered and thus warm from the heat of the sun, should 
be chilled before serving. When possible leaves of 
the trees on which the fruit was grown should be put 
beneath the fruit, on the plate. Pass sugar or sugar 
and cream with berries; do not add either to them 
before serving. It should be needless to say that the 
tough skins of apples, plums, pears, grapes, etc., are 
not wholesome. 



SERVING OF GRAPEFRUIT AND ORANGES 

A grapefruit is cut in halves crosswise, and serves 
two persons. With a sharp, pointed, French knife 
remove the seeds, then cut around the pulp in each 
section, that it may be removed with a spoon. Set 
halves of grapefruit on small plates covered with 
paper doilies or leaves. Oranges may be served in 
the same way. Or, simply cut in halves, the pulp 
may be removed with a spoon without the preliminary 
use of a knife. Or, the sections of fruit pulp, either 
grapefruit or orange, with all the juice, may be dis- 



Cooking for Two 217 

posed in glasses. A little sugar may be sprinkled 
over the top If desired. 



GRAPEFRUIT WITH BAR-LE-DUC CURRANTS 

Cut a chilled grapefruit in halves. Remove the 
seeds, and cut around each section of pulp close to the 
membranous walls or partitions. With a sharp knife 
carefully free the membrane from the sides and bot- 
tom of the skin, and lift It out, leaving the pulp in 
place. Put a spoonful of Bar-le-duc currants in the 
center. Serve as a first course at luncheon or dinner. 



SERVING PINEAPPLES 

After the skin and " eyes " have been removed, 
the flesh may be picked from the core with a silver 
fork and served with or without sugar. Or the fruit 
may be cut in slices, crosswise or lengthwise, and eaten 
from the hand. A tender, well-ripened pineapple 
needs no sugar; less choice fruit may be sprinkled 
with sugar and left standing in a cool place two or 
three hours before serving. 



SLICED PEACHES 

Peel the skin from the peaches, cut the flesh 
through to the stone in even slices and lengthwise of 
the fruit and sprinkle with sugar at once, to keep the 
fruit from discoloring. 



218 Cooking for Two 

SLICED ORANGES 

Slit the peel, lengthwise, on one side of the orange, 
then remove with the fingers ; carefully remove every 
vestige of the white pith on the outside, then place 
the orange on a board and with a sharp knife cut in 
thin slices, lengthwise of the fruit, removing seeds if 
any are present. Sprinkle lightly with sugar, or serve 
without sugar. 

DATES 

Take about half a pound of dates. Cover the dates 
with boiling water; stir and separate them in the 
water with a silver fork; skim them from the water 
to an agate pan, and set them into the oven for three 
or four minutes to dry off. Cut each date in halves, 
removing the stones. They are now ready to serve 
with a cereal and cream or without a cereal. 

MACEDOINE OF MIDWINTER FRUIT 
For each service take : 

5 or 6 dates Yz or % grapefruit 

J^ small banana 

Prepare the dates and remove the pulp of the grape- 
fruit as indicated above. Peel and scrape the ba- 
nanas, then cut in even slices. Retain all the juice of 
the grapefruit. Dispose the prepared fruit in glass 
or china saucers, dividing the juice among them. 
Dispose a few slices of banana and halves of dates on 
the top of the fruit in a symmetrical manner; sprinkle 



Cooking for Two 219 

with powdered sugar and serve when thoroughly 
chilled either as an appetizer before luncheon or as 
a dessert dish at dinner or luncheon. 



QUICK APPLE SAUCE 

Pare, quarter and core three or four tart apples. 
Put over a quick fire with about one-fourth a cup of 
sugar and half a cup of boiling water; cover and let 
cook until tender. Serve hot or cold. 

STRAINED APPLE SAUCE 

Pare, quarter and core three or four tart apples; 
add half a cup of boiling water, cover and let cook 
till tender. With a pestle press the apples through a 
sieve; add about one-fourth a cup of sugar (a grating 
of nutmeg if desired) and let cook three or four 
minutes. 

STEWED PRUNES 

Wash one-third or one-half a pound of prunes, 
rubbing them between the hands, rinse in cold water 
and drain ; then cover with cold water and let stand 
several hours or over night. Set to cook in the water 
in which they were standing, adding more if needed. 
Let simmer until they are tender and the water is 
reduced. Just before removing from the fire add 
from one-fourth to one-half a cup of sugar and let 
simmer six or eight minutes. The sugar may be 
omitted and often be unmissed. The juice from half 
a lemon, a little candied orange or lemon rind, or a 



220 Cooking for Two 

tablespoonful or two of sherry, may be added occa- 
sionally, to give variety to the flavor. The blanched 
pits from the stones also give a pleasing flavor. 



EVAPORATED PEACHES 

Prepare and cook the peaches in the same manner 
as the prunes ; one-fourth a pound is enough to cook 
at one time. These are particularly good, served with 
cream. 

DRIED FIGS 

Use figs that come in small baskets, or such as have 
a thin, silky skin. Wash the figs, pour boiling water 
over them and let cook until the skins are tender. 
For half a dozen figs, add a scant quarter a cup of 
sugar and let boil five minutes. Flavor with lemon 
or orange juice, or sherry, for a change. Serve with 
or without cream. 

CRANBERRY JELLY 

Cook one quart of cranberries and one cup of water 
In a covered dish five or six minutes. Then with a 
pestle press them through a fine sieve. Stir In two 
cups of sugar; and, without reheating, turn the mix- 
ture into a mould. Do not return to the fire after the 
sugar is added or the mixture will not jelly. The 
strong acid of the cranberry In connection with high 
heat " splits " the sugar and interferes with the jelly- 
ing process. 



Cooking for Two 221 

STRAINED CRANBERRY SAUCE 

Prepare as jelly in the recipe given above, except 
cook the cranberries in two cups of water. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE, UNSTRAINED 

Heat two cups, each, of sugar and water to the 
boiling-point. Add one quart of cranberries. Cover 
the saucepan, and let stand on the back of the range 
five minutes. Then move to the front of the range, 
and let cook five minutes after boiling begins. Set 
the sauce aside, covered, in the saucepan, until cold. 
The shape of the cranberries is well preserved in this 
sauce. 

APPLES STUFFED WITH DATES AND BAKED 

Select tart apples, core neatly, pare, and fill the 
cavities with stoned dates (prepared as above) . Bake 
until tender throughout in a hot oven, basting once 
or twice with a little hot, sugar-and-water syrup. 
Serve with the morning cereal, or as a dessert dish 
at luncheon or dinner, with cream or milk. 

APPLES, PRALINEE 

4 apples yi cup of blanched almonds, 

J4 cup of sugar chopped fine 

I cup of water 8 level tablespoonfuls of sugar 

Core and pare the apples ; dissolve the sugar in the 
water, then let cook about five minutes ; in this syrup 
cook the apples until tender, turning them often to 



222 Cooking for Two 

keep them in shape and to cook throughout the apple. 
Remove to a serving dish. Stir constantly while cook- 
ing the eight spoonfuls of sugar and the almonds 
over a hot fire until the sugar becomes caramelized. 
Turn the nuts and caramel upon the apples, taking 
care that none falls on the dish. Have the syrup in 
which the apples were cooked boiled till quite thick, 
pour this around the apples. Serve at once or when 
cold with or without cream. 

LEMON JELLY 

I tablespoonful of granulated i cup of boiling water 

gelatine ^ cup of sugar 

J4 cup of cold water ^ cup of lemon juice 

Let the gelatine stand in the cold water fifteen 
minutes or longer (until all the water is absorbed) ; 
add the boiling water and sugar and stir until the 
gelatine and sugar are dissolved ; let cool a little, add 
the lemon juice and turn into cups. Set aside to be- 
come cold and firm. Serve with cream or boiled cus- 
tard. Preserved peaches or pears, cooked prunes or 
figs, or nut meats, also sections of orange, from which 
the membrane has been removed, or slices of banana, 
may be moulded in the jelly. A tablespoonful of 
gelatine is needed to each scant pint of liquid. 

ORANGE JELLY 

I tablespoonful of granulated Yz cup of sugar 

gelatine I cup of orange juice 

54 cup of cold water i tablespoonful of lemon juice 
Y-i cup of boiling water 



Cooking for Two 223 

Prepare in the same manner as lemon jelly. Grape- 
fruit jelly may be made by the same recipe. 

ORANGE SECTIONS IN JELLY 

" Blood " oranges are very juicy and make a pretty 
colored jelly. Remove the sections from peeled 
oranges in such a manner as to leave no trace of mem- 
brane on the pieces. Set these, lengthwise, into indi- 
vidual moulds (some moulds are well adapted to this 
purpose) , and gradually fill the moulds with the fruit 
mixture. Serve, when set and cold, turned from the 
moulds. The filling of the moulds may be expedited 
if the moulds are set in a pan of water and crushed 
ice. Then put in a tablespoonful of the mixture; 
when this hardens the sections of orange will be held 
in place and the moulds can be half filled and then 
completely filled. 

PRUNE JELLY 

I tablespoonful of granulated 2 tablespoonfuls of orange 

gelatine juice or 

% cup of cold water i tablespoonful of lemon juice 

J4 pound of prunes, cooked Yi cup of sugar 

tender 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of 
Grated rind of I orange or sherry wine if desired 

lemon or Hot water to make ij^ cups 
I tablespoonful of candied peel, of material 

cut very fine 

Remove the stones and cut the cooked prunes in 
pieces. The meats from the stones (cracked) or one- 
fourth a cup of sliced almonds or walnuts may be 



224 Cooking for Two 

added. Soften the gelatine in the cold water, and 
dissolve in the hot prune juice ; add the other ingre- 
dients and measure the whole. There should not be 
more than one cup and a half. If not that quantity 
hot water may be added. One tablespoonful of gela- 
tine is supposed to be needed for each pint of liquid, 
but in summer time or if the mixture is heavy with 
fruit or prunes, the quantity of liquid must be cut 
down. 

PRUNES STUFFED WITH CHEESE 

Let choice prunes soak over night in cold water; 
steam until tender; slit down at one side and remove 
the stone from each. Grate Edam or other cheese; 
add a little fine-chopped red pepper, or a dash of 
paprika, and enough mayonnaise dressing to mix the 
cheese to a soft and smooth consistency. Fill the open 
spaces in the centers of the prunes with the cheese 
mixture. Serve with lettuce salad, over which French 
dressing has been poured, and toasted crackers. Phil- 
adelphia or Neufchatel cheese may be used; also, 
French dressing in the place of the mayonnaise. 



STRAWBERRY SANDWICHES 
Bake sponge cake of any variety in a sheet; cut 
the cake into pieces of a size suitable for individual 
service and split each piece. Have ready some huUed- 
and-washed berries, mixed with sugar. Put the pre- 
pared berries between and above the pieces of cake. 




Baked ISanaxas, Sultana Sal'ci:. — Page 




MaCEDLUNE of MiDW IN'Tl'.R VrV IT . — P gC 2lS. 




Grape Fruit. — Page 216. 




Grape - fklit Jelly. — Page 226. 




Apple. Pralixee. — Page 221. 




Sliced Imgs in Sherry Wine Jelly. — P'^ige 227. 



Cooking for Two 225 

Serve with a pitcher of cream. The cake may be hot 
or cold, but it is best when freshly made. 

BANANA WHIP 

I banana }^ cup of double cream 

J4 cup of sugar 2 pistachio nuts 

1 tablespoonful of lemon juice 

Peel the banana, scrape off the coarse threads and 
press the pulp through a sieve; add the sugar and 
lemon juice and cook over the fire, stirring constantly 
until the mixture boils; remove from the fire and let 
become chilled. Beat the cream till firm to the bottom 
of the bowl. Fold the chilled banana and cream to- 
gether and turn into two glasses. Pour boiling water 
over the nuts, let stand about two minutes, pour off 
the water, add cold water and push off the skins from 
the nuts. Chop the blanched nuts fine and sprinkle 
over the mixture in the glasses. 

BAKED BANANAS, SULTANA SAUCE 

2 bananas i teaspoonful of cornstarch 
% cup (or less) of Sultana rai- i teaspoonful of butter 

sins Vi teaspoonful of vanilla or 

I cup of boiling water i tablespoonful of lemon juice 

yz cup of sugar or sherry 

Pull down a seccion of a banana skin, then loosen 
the pulp from the rest of the skin ; remove all coarse 
threads and replace the fruit in its original position 
in the skin. Set the bananas, in an agate dish, in a 
moderate oven, to bake until the skin is blackened 



226 Cooking for Two 

and the pulp Is soft. It will take about ten minutes. 
Take the pulp from the skins without injury to' the 
shape and dispose in saucers in half circles. Pour 
over the sauce. Serve hot as an entree with meat or 
as a dessert dish. Cook the raisins in the water until 
tender. Stir in the cornstarch and sugar mixed to- 
gether, let simmer six or eight minutes, add the butter 
and flavoring and the sauce Is ready to serve. The 
water will evaporate during the cooking of the raisins. 
Add more as needed but do not have more than half 
a cup in the dish when the cornstarch is added. 



GRAPEFRUIT JELLY 

1 tablespoonful of granulated i^ cups of grapefruit, pulp 

gelatine and juice together 

% cup of cold water 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of sherry 

% cup of boiling water or maraschino at discre- 

Yi to y2 cup of sugar tion 

I tablespoonful of lemon juice 6 or 8 candied cherries 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve 
in the hot water; add the sugar and stir occasionally 
until cold, then add the fruit and juice, also wine if 
used. Set five small moulds in a pan of ice and water 
to become chilled. Cut the cherries in slices to form 
rings. With a steel skewer dip the cherry rings in the 
grapefruit mixture, and set them on the chilled sides 
and bottoms of the moulds, to which they will adhere. 
Then fill the moulds, little by little, with the grape- 
fruit mixture. 



Cooking for Two 227 

SLICED FIGS IN SHERRY WINE JELLY 

I tablespoonful of granulated J^ cup of sherry wine 

gelatine Juice of J4 a lemon 

54 cup of cold water S or 6 figs 

J4 cup of boiling water Whipped cream 
y^ cup of sugar 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve 
in the boiling water ; add the sugar and stir occasion- 
ally until cold. Add the wine and lemon juice. Let 
a mould holding a scant pint become chilled in cold 
or ice water. A fluted mould is good for this dish. 
Cut the figs in slices, dip some of these in the jelly 
mixture and use them to decorate the mould; then 
fill the mould, alternately, with slices of figs and the 
mixture, letting the jelly " set " partially, each time, 
before adding the' slices of figs. When the jelly Is 
unmolded garnish with whipped cream, put on with 
bag and tube, and bits of fig. 

SWEET -PICKLE JELLY 

(To serve with roast chicken, lamb or beef) 

y^ package (i tablespoonful) J4 cup of cold water 

of granulated gelatine i orange (juice, and pulp in 

I cup of syrup from sweet bits) 

pickle jar (scalded) 2 tablespoonfuls of maraschino 

I cup of sweet pickle, cut in cherries in small pieces, at 

small pieces (peach, pear, discretion 

melon or pin-money man- 3 tablespoonfuls of liquid from 
goes) the cherries, at discretion 

Soften the gelatine In the cold water and dissolve 
in the hot syrup ; let cool, then add the other ingredl- 



228 Cooking for Two 

ents ; if mangoes be used add both outside and filling. 
Carefully discard the orange seeds. Stir the mixture 
in a pan of ice water until it thickens enough to hold 
up the bits of fruit, then turn into small molds or 
one of larger size. This recipe will serve six people. 



CHAPTER XIV 

SUGAR: A GREAT SOURCE OF HEAT AND ENERGY 

BDILING OF SUGAR: CANDY MAKING 

There are certain grasses, stems and roots that 
yield sweet juices, which are valuable to us not only 
for the mineral salts and organic acids contained in 
them, but also on account of the large proportion of 
the carbohydrate principle that is present in a com- 
paratively assimilable form. These juices are sepa- 
rated from the water, fibrous and other matters with 
which they are combined, and are known commer- 
cially as sugar. See also chapter I. 

Sugar being readily changed to a liquid passes 
quickly into the circulation, and its stimulating effects 
are quickly felt; but it lacks " staying " qualities, and 
thus articles in which much sugar is used should be 
eaten after the substantial dishes rather than before 
them. 

Sugar changed by cooking to caramel gives to many 
dishes a flavor that is unequaled. It may be made 
into a syrup and thus stored for use as needed. Car- 
amel syrup may be used on fried mush or griddle- 
cakes, as a sauce for custards and puddings, or to 
flavor cake, icing or ice cream. Sugar and water, or 



230 Cooking for Two 

sugar and cream or milk, are cooked together as a 
foundation for candies and icings. In general do not 
allow the mixture to boil until the sugar is melted, 
then set to cook over a quick fire and let boil rapidly 
until the cooking is completed. When chocolate is 
to be used, add it just before the syrup is taken from 
the fire, as chocolate calls for no cooking. 



CARAMEL SYRUP 

Put one cup of sugar into a small saucepan, set 
over a quick fire and stir constantly while the sugar 
melts and changes to a light brown liquid. Lift the 
pan occasionally from the fire, that the sugar may 
not become burned at any one place. The caramel 
is cooked enough when it has become a bright golden 
brown color ; it will darken a little more before it is 
changed to syrup, and so should not be kept over 
the -fire too long, or when finished the color will be 
too dark and the flavor impaired. Add one cup of 
hot water and return the saucepan to the fire ; let the 
syrup boil about five minutes, then it is ready to use, 
or it may be stored in a jar for future use. When 
the water is poured upon the caramel, considerable 
commotion will take place and care must be taken 
to keep the hand out of the steam. 

DEGREES IN BOILING SUGAR 

When the sugar (for the caramel syrup) was 
cooked to the caramel degree, if water had not been 



Cooking for Two 231 

added to it, on cooling it would have snapped and 
broken like glass. The sugar is caramel when it is 
melted and cooked to an amber color, or to 345° F. 
by a sugar thermometer. As the cooking is con- 
tinued the caramel becomes darker in color, and, if 
the cooking be continued until the sugar reaches a 
density of 354° F. the sugar will burn or become 
carbon. 

By setting the sugar to cook with water or other 
liquid, we may use it ( for various purposes, as f rost- 
ings for cake, candy, etc.) before it reaches the glass- 
like condition of caramel. A very little cooking 
changes the density of the syrup, and the sugar passes 
from one degree of concefltration to another very 
rapidly; thus it must be watched very closely or it 
will be boiled too little or too much for the desired 
purpose. A sugar thermometer is very useful in this 
connection. In making frosting for cake, the sugar, 
with cold water enough to melt it, is cooked to the 
" soft ball " degree, or from 236° to 242° F. With- 
out a thermometer, test the syrup by dropping a little 
of it into cold water; if it may be gathered together 
into a soft ball (in the water), or if, when the syrup 
drops from the spoon, a hair-like thread, two or three 
inches in length, appears, the right degree is reached. 
In candy-making we often cook the sugar to a higher 
degree. At about 248° F. the hard ball degree is 
reached; at this degree a little of the syrup may be 
gathered together in cold water to form a hard ball. 
When the syrup, tested in water, forms a ball that 



232 Cooking for Two 

clings but does not stick to the teeth, the soft, crack 
degree (about 290° F.) is reached. At about 
310° F. the hard crack degree is reached. At this 
point in the cooking the candy, pressed between the 
teeth, leaves them clean and free. 

As in sugar boiling, the process is restricted en- 
tirely to driving off the water in composition, or that 
which has been added to the sugar, so a bright, clear 
day, rather than one in which the atmosphere is 
saturated with moisture, is desirable. In many frost- 
ings and candies a smooth texture is sought ; in others 
a fine-grained texture is admissible. 

When smoothness is demanded, the syrup must not 
be stirred during the cooking, and great pains must 
be taken to avoid any jarring of the syrup. When 
a grainy texture is admissible, the mixture may be 
stirred. The addition of acid in some form " breaks 
the grain " of the sugar and reduces its liability to 
granulate. Thus in candies or icings we may use 
cream of tartar, acetic acid (made from vinegar), 
lemon juice, glucose or molasses, any one of which 
will affect the resultant product in greater or less 
degree. We will look first at candies in which a 
slight grain is not objectionable. 

FRUIT FUDGE 

2 cups of granulated sugar J^ cup of French fruit, cut fine 

% cup of glucose or corn syrup I teaspoonful of vanilla 
l^ cups of cream 

Stir the sugar, glucose and cream until the sugar 
is dissolved, then cook to the soft ball degree, or 



Cooking for Two 233 

236° F. In cold weather let the thermometer stand 
in a warm place a few moments before setting it into 
the saucepan. Stir the mixture occasionally, but very 
gently. In stirring lift the thermometer to stir under- 
neath it. When the syrup is cooked enough, remove 
the saucepan to a cake cooler or wire coffee-stand, 
that a current of air may pass below it. Let stand 
until it is quite cool, then add the fruit and the vanilla 
and beat the mixture until it thickens and grains a 
little, then turn into a bread pan, neatly lined with 
waxed paper. When set (in about fifteen minutes) 
turn from the pan, peel off the paper and cut in cubes. 
In making chocolate fudge, add one or two squares 
or ounces of chocolate just as the pan is taken from 
the fire. Fudge in which glucose is used has to be 
beaten a little longer before it thickens and grains 
than fudge in which it is not used; if properly han- 
dled the fudge will, however, be softer and finer 
grained. 

OTHER VARIETIES OF FUDGE 

An almost endless variety of Fudge may be made. 
Figs, cut in pieces, or nuts, broken in pieces, may be 
added. Brown sugar or maple sugar may replace 
all or a part of the white sugar. Part of the fudge 
may be turned into a saucepan with an ounce of 
melted chocolate and, when both dishes of candy 
are cold and beaten, they may be put into a pan to 
make marbled fudge. Or chocolate may be added 
to all of the mixture, then part of the mixture may 



234 Cooking for Two 

be cooled in ice water and the other half be allowed 
to cool more slowly. After the half, first ready, has 
been poured into the pan, it may be covered with 
marshmallows, split in halves, and then the other 
half, beaten in the usual manner, be poured over it. 
Or, when the candy is taken from the fire, half a 
pound or more of marshmallows may be gradually 
beaten into it; these cool the candy so that it may 
be at once turned into the pans. 

DIVINITY FUDGE OR SPANISH NOUGAT 

lyi cups of brown sugar The white of i egg 

Yz cup of glucose or corn syrup i teaspoonful of vanilla 

Yi cup of water i cup of nut meats, chopped fine 

This candy on account of the glucose used may be 
stirred gently during cooking without its becoming 
grainy; the stirring should not be continuous. Cook 
the sugar, glucose and water to the soft ball degree 
(about 238° F.), then pour in a fine stream onto the 
white of egg, beaten dry, beating constantly mean- 
while; return one-half of the syrup to the fire and 
cook to the crack degree, nearly 290° F., then pour 
onto the egg mixture, beating constantly meanwhile; 
add the vanilla and nuts and turn into a bread pan 
lined with waxed paper. When nearly cold remove 
from the tin and cut in cubes. The cubes are often 
wrapped in waxed paper. This candy, cut in narrow 
oblong strips and dipped In melted chocolate, Is 
known as nougatlnes. Almonds are the nuts usually 
selected for nougatlnes. This candy Is often cooked 



Cooking for Two 235 

to a lower degree, both before and after it is first 
stirred into the white of egg; thus cooked it is not 
easily handled until after it has stood a day or two. 

BEST CARAMELS 

i}i cups of sugar 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

yi cup of glucose 3 tablespoonfuls of flour 

I pint of cream i teaspoonful of vanilla 
I yolk of egg 

Put the sugar, glucose and one cup of the cream 
over the fire to cook. Beat the yolk of egg; add 
the rest of the cream and very gradually (do not 
allow the mixture to stop boiling) stir this into the 
boiling candy; then let cook to the soft ball degree, 
236° F., stirring occasionally. Beat the butter to a 
cream; gradually beat in the flour, then gradually 
stir this into the candy and let cook to 240 or 245° F., 
according to the season or the hardness desired in the 
candy. Add the vanilla and pour into two buttered 
bread-pans. When cold cut in cubes. 

MAPLE CARAMELS 

Use maple sugar instead of granulated sugar, or 
use two cups and one-third of maple syrup and one 
cup and a fourth of white sugar, keeping the other 
ingredients the same as in " Best Caramels." For 
chocolate caramels add three or four squares of choc- 
olate at the same time as the vanilla. For nut cara- 
mels add one cup or one cup and a half of nuts just 
before turning the candy into the pans. 



236 Cooking for Two 

GOOD WALNUT CARAMELS 

■zi/i cups of sugar 2^ cups of whole milk (un- 
J4 cup of glucose skimmed) 

Yi cup of butter l teaspoonful of vanilla 

Yi teaspoonful of cream of tar- i cup of English walnut meats 
tar 

Put the first four ingredients and one cup of the 
milk over the fire to cook; stir constantly and, after 
the mixture has boiled a few moments, gradually stir 
in the rest of the milk; add only a little at a time, 
as thus added the milk is less liable to curdle. Stir 
often and cook to the hard ball degree or about 
248° F. ; add the nuts and vanilla and turn into two 
pans. Cut in cubes when nearly cold. Wrap the 
cubes in waxed paper. 

CHOICE CARAMELS 

I pound of sugar (2 cups) Yz pound of butter (i cup) 

I pound of glucose (54 cup) I pint of cream 

Put the sugar, glucose, butter and half of the 
cream over the fire and stir until the mass boils 
throughout. Then stir in gradually — so as not to 
stop the boiling — a second cup of cream. Put in 
the sugar thermometer, and let the mixture boil, stir- 
ring every three or four minutes, until the thermom- 
eter registers 250° F. Then stir in a teaspoonful of 
vanilla, and turn the candy into two brick-shaped 
bread-pans, nicely buttered, or onto an oiled marble 
between steel bars, to make a sheet three-fourths an 
inch thick. When nearly cold, cut in cubes. Roll 



Cooking for Two 237 

these at once in waxed paper or let stand twenty-four 
hours to dry off. Without a thermometer boil the 
mass to a pretty firm hard ball. No better caramels 
can be made. The time of boiling varies, but often 
an hour is required. In summer the caramels will 
hold their shape better if boiled from two to four 
degrees higher. 

PECAN PRALINES 

3 cups of granulated sugar i cup of sugar cooked to the 

1 cup of cream caramel degree 

3 cups of pecan nut meats 

Stir the sugar and cream over the fire until the 
sugar is melted, then let boil to the soft ball degree 
or to 235" F. Have ready the cup of sugar, cooked 
to the caramel degree, and pour the first mixture 
onto the caramel ; let boil up once, then remove from 
the fire and beat until it begins to thicken. Add the 
nuts and drop by spoonfuls onto marble or waxed 
paper. 

ORANGE - FLAVORED TURKISH PASTE 

3 level tablespoonfuls of granu- 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice 

lated gelatine 4 tablespoonfuls of Curacoa 

% cup of orange juice V-i cup of candied cherries, 

2 cups of granulated sugar chopped fine 
Yi cup of cold water 

Let the gelatine stand in the orange juice until it 
has absorbed the liquid. Stir the sugar and water 
over a slack fire until the sugar is dissolved, then add 



238 Cooking for Two 

the softened gelatine and heat to the boiling point; 
let boil twenty minutes after boiling begins ; remove 
from the fire and let cool a little, then add the lemon 
juice, wine and fruit, and turn into an unbuttered 
bread-pan. Let stand in a cool place overnight. To 
unmold sift XXXX, or confectioner's, sugar over 
the top of the paste; with a sharp-pointed knife, 
loosen the candy at the edge, where it adheres to the 
pan, then gently and slowly pull the paste, in a com- 
pact sheet, from the pan and dispose on a board 
dredged with confectioner's sugar. Cut the paste 
into strips and then in cubes with a sharp knife. This 
may be done easily, if sugar be kept between the 
knife and the paste. Roll each piece in the sugar. 
This candy is at its best after a few days. Grated 
rind of orange may be used in place of the wine. 



TURKISH PASTE, RASPBERRY FLAVORED 

3 level tablespoonfuls of granu- 2 cups of sugar 

lated gelatine % cup of raspberry juice 

Yi cup of raspberry juice 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice 

Prepare in the same manner as the orange-flavored 
paste. 

TURKISH PASTE, MINT FLAVORED 

Yi cup of cold water 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice 

3 tablespoonfuls of granulated 4 tablespoonfuls of creme-de- 

gelatine menthe cordial 

2 cups of granulated sugar Green color-paste to tint very 
Yi cup of cold water delicately 



Cooking for Two 239 

Prepare as the orange-flavored paste. These can- 
dies may be stirred gently, if it seems necessary. 

FONDANT: CANDY OF SMOOTH TEXTURE 

4 cups of granulated sugar J^ teaspoonful of vinegar or 

V/z cups of cold water J/^ teaspoonful of cornstarch 

3 drops of acetic acid or 

Stir the sugar and water in a saucepan, set on a 
comparatively cool part of the range, until the sugar 
is melted; then draw the saucepan to a hotter place 
and continue stirring until the syrup boils; remove 
the spoon and, with a cloth or the fingers wet in cold 
water, wash down the sides of the saucepan, to re- 
move grains of sugar that may have been thrown 
there in the cooking; now add the acid, vinegar or 
cornstarch, and cover the dish; the steam will melt 
grains of sugar, if there be any on the saucepan. 
After three or four minutes remove the cover and, if 
a thermometer is to be used, set It into the syrup. Let 
the syrup boil to 240° F. In the meantime wet the 
hand in cold water and with it dampen a marble slab 
or a large platter, then, without jarring the syrup, 
turn it onto the receptacle prepared for it. Do not 
scrape out the saucepan or allow the last of the syrup 
to drip from it (use the saucepan in making a dish of 
apple or other sauce), as sugary portions will cause 
the fondant to be " grainy." When the syrup is 
cold, with a scraper (such as is used in removing wall 
paper) or a wooden spatula, turn the edges of the 



240 Cooking for Two 

mass towards the center ; continue this until it begins 
to thicken and grow white, then work it up into a 
ball, scraping the marble clean. When all is col- 
lected and worked into a compact mass, lay over it 
a damp cloth, tucking it in closely; let stand in this 
way for an hour or more to ripen. Now cut into 
pieces and pack these closely in an earthen bowl; 
cover the top of the bowl with a damp cloth and then 
with heavy paper; the cloth must not touch the fon- 
dant. This may be used at once or may be kept, in 
cold weather, several weeks, if the cloth be wrung 
out of cold water and returned about once a week. 
It may be used as a frosting for small cakes, for 
" centers " of bonbons or for coating centers. 

COFFEE BONBONS 

Roll small pieces of fondant into balls. If the 
fondant is too soft to handle, add a little XXXX or 
confectioner's sugar. Let the balls stand until dry 
on the outside. Put a cup or more of the fondant in 
a double boiler over warm, but not boiling water, add 
a few drops of coffee extract and a tablespoonful or 
more of caramel syrup, also a little water (perhaps 
a teaspoonful) if needed and stir until melted; drop 
in a center, then with a dipping fork (made of wire) 
push it under the coating; when covered, lift out, 
draw the fork across the edge of the dish to remove 
superfluous coating, then turn the fork and drop the 
candy onto waxed paper or oil cloth. In lifting the 
fork from the bonbon a design may be made. 



Cooking for Two 241 

OTHER BONBONS 

Candied fruit, particularly cherries, cut in bits, 
nuts, broken in pieces or chopped, pieces of fig, dates 
or ginger may be mixed with fondant for centers. 
These centers may be dipped in plain white fondant, 
flavored to harmonize with the center, or, the fon- 
dant may be tinted green, pink, etc., with color paste, 
or brown with chocolate. Black coffee, much reduced 
by boiling, may be used instead of coffee extract. 

PISTACHIO BONBONS 
Blanch a few pistachio nuts ; split a few and leave 
these half meats to set on the top of the bonbons. 
Chop the rest of the nuts ; mix with fondant and roll 
into oblong shapes. Coat these with fondant, tinted 
light green and flavored with almond and vanilla. 
If a teaspoonful of vanilla be used for flavoring, add 
only one-fourth a teaspoonful of almond. Set the 
half nut in place the instant the center is coated, as the 
coating stiffens very quickly. To make the coating 
a little heavier or hold its shape a little better, beat 
in a few drops of glycerine. Put the rounding side 
of the nut down. 

FONDANT WITH GLUCOSE 

2^ cups of sugar i cup of water 

Yi cup of glucose (any pure 
corn syrup) 

Put the sugar, glucose and water over the fire, and 
stir until boiling; wipe down the sides of the sauce- 



242 Cooking for Two 

pan, cover and cook as in the first recipe for fondant. 
Cook to 238° F. This fondant, on account of the 
glucose, is less liable to grain than the one previously 
given. Begin to cream before the syrup becomes cold. 
When the fondant begins to stiffen, scrape it into 
a bowl and cover with a damp cloth. Use at once 
or after a time. This fondant, on account of the 
glucose, as also fondant to which almond paste or 
chocolate is added, or fondant made with part maple 
sugar, will not " cream " as quickly as the ordinary 
fondant. It is " sticky " and can not be easily shaped 
by hand into centers. It is used almost exclusively 
for centers that are molded in starch. 

TO MOLD CENTERS IN STARCH 

Buy a cheap grade of coi-nstarch and keep it for 
this purpose. Sift the starch into a biscuit pan, filling 
It to the top. Smooth the starch with a flat stick 
long enough to rest on two sides of the pan. The 
impressions may be made, one at a time, with a thim- 
ble, a cork, glass stopper to a bottle or similar arti- 
cles, but the easiest way is with small plaster moulds 
glued to a thin strip of wood. The stick should be 
of such length that the ends may rest on the sides 
of the pan. Lift up the molds and make a second 
row of impressions; also make other rows, if it can 
be done without injuring the shape of the impressions 
already made. Melt the fondant over hot water, 
stirring it meanwhile ; tint with color paste, if desired 
(a little on the point of a wooden skewer will tint 




Choice Caramf.i.s W R.\i'r[:Li in 1*-\i'i;r. — f'a.^c .'^'i. 




Chocolate T-n--: V.oss. ^ Page ^43- 




Divinity Fi'Dfin ok Spanish Novg.\t. — Page 2y 




Dipping Ovstekettes, Ni'ts, 6-c. in "Dot" Chocolate. — Pages J4s, 




■KL'iT Fudge. — Page 



^•*^lfj^ 



.M,\tviiNU i.MrKt.:,;3iONS IN StaRCII TO j\IOLD I'oXDANT. Page 2^2, 



Cooking for Two 243 

a large quantity), and flavor according to the color. 
Use rose extract for pink candies and vanilla and al- 
mond for light green. Coffee extract will give both 
tint and flavor. Keep the fondant hot and thin and 
with a teaspoon drop it into the starch impressions, 
filling each level with the top of the starch. When 
cold pick out the candies and brush off the starch. 
They are now ready for coating with chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE DIPPED BONBONS 

Slightly sweetened chocolate suitable for dipping 
candy may be bought in cakes like those sold for cook- 
ing purposes and at the same price. As depth of 
chocolate is needed and all chocolate left over may be 
used again and again, at least half a pound should 
be taken, no matter how little dipping is to be done. 
Break the chocolate in very small pieces, put into a 
small agate cup and set into warm (not hot) water. 
If a tiny double boiler be available, so much the bet- 
ter. Stir the chocolate occasionally while it is melt- 
ing, being careful that no drop of water gets into the 
chocolate. When the chocolate is cooled to about 
70° F., or a little below lukewarm, it is ready for 
use. Drop in a center, with a dipping fork push it 
below the chocolate, lift, and when drained a little 
drop onto a piece of oilcloth or waxed paper. If the 
candy is to be smooth on top, draw the fork across 
the edge of the chocolate dish (to remove superfluous 
chocolate), then slide the candy onto the oilcloth. 
If there is to be a design on top, let the top of the 



244 Cooking for Two 

candy be downward in the chocolate ; turn the candy 
upside down from the fork and draw the fork over 
the top. Remove to a cool place, to " set " the choc- 
olate. 

CHOCOLATE DIPPED NUTS, GINGER ROOT, OYS- 
TERETTES, ETC. 

Almonds, unblanched, are dipped with a design on 
top. Peanuts, with skin discarded, are dipped and 
dropped in clusters. Drop two or three nuts, dipped 
one by one, side by side, then drop others above ; the 
chocolate runs together and forms a neat looking and 
dainty confection. Strips of preserved ginger root 
are particularly good, dipped in chocolate. Fine- 
chopped peanuts or almonds, or figs, dates or ginger 
rc^t may be added to the chocolate; In this oyster- 
3 may be dipped, to produce a very agreeable 
confection for Sunday Night tea, etc. 



ALMOND NOUGATINES 

Prepare the recipe for " Divinity Fudge " or 
" Spanish Nougat " ; when cold cut in oblong pieces 
about three-eighths of an iiich wide and an Inch and 
a half long, and dip in chocolate, making a design 
on the upper side. 

CANDIES COOKED TO A HIGH DEGREE 
In cooking candies to a high degree the stirring 
must be constant during the last part of the cooking. 



Cooking for Two 245 

PEANUT BRITTLE 

For this candy put over the fire one cup and a half 
of sugar, half a cup of glucose and two-thirds a cup 
of water; stir till the sugar is dissolved and wash 
down the sides of the saucepan as in making fondant; 
cover and let cook three or four minutes, then uncover 
and let cook without stirring to 275" F. (or until 
when a little is cooled and chewed it clings but does 
not stick to the teeth) ; add two level tablespoonfuls 
of butter and half a pound of small, raw, shelled 
peanuts, from which the skins have been taken, and 
stir constantly until the peanuts are well browned; 
add a teaspoonful of vanilla extract ind a level tea- 
spoonful of soda, dissolved in a tablespoonful of cold 
water, and stir vigorously. When the mixture is 
done foaming turn it onto a warm, oiled marb' " t 
platter and, as soon as it can be handled, pull it '; ^ 
as thin as possible. With a spatula loosen it from 
the marble in the center and turn the sheet upside 
down and pull again as thin as possible. Break into 
pieces. To remove the skin from the peanuts, cover 
the shelled nuts with boiling water, let boil once, 
drain, cover with cold water, and push off the skins. 
The small unroasied Spanish peanuts give the best 
result. 

POP CORN BALLS 

lyi cups of sugar 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

Yj cup of glucose Yi teaspoonful of salt 

Yi cup of water About S quarts of hot popped 
Y2 cup of dark molasses com 



246 Cooking for Two 

Put the sugar, glucose and water over the fire and 
stir till the sugar melts; wash down the sides of the 
pan, cover and let steam five minutes, then uncover 
and cook without stirring to 280° F. Or test in the 
same way as peanut brittle. Add the other ingredi- 
ents and cook until very brittle when tried in cold 
water. Stir occasionally at first, then constantly. 
Have the corn in a hot dish; stir while pouring the 
candy over it. Mix thoroughly, then roll into balls. 
Do not press the corn together too compactly. Re- 
move all hard kernels of corn before adding the 
candy. 

MOLASSES TAFFY 

2 cups of sugar 2 tablespoonf uls of butter 

J/^ cup of glucose I tablespoonful of vanilla ex- 
% cup of water tract 

I cup of molasses 

Cook sugar, glucose and water as in Pop Corn 
Balls, but to 245° F. (hard ball when tested in cold 
water) ; add the molasses and butter and cook to 
260° F. Pour on oiled slab or platter; while cooling 
turn the edges towards the center, and when cool 
enough pull in the hands or over a hook until very 
light-colored and cold. Flavor while pulling, adding 
the extract a little at a time. Finally pull out into 
strips and cut in short lengths. 

GLACE GRAPES (MALAGA OR TOKAY), CHERRIES, 
MARSHMALLOWS, ETC. 

2 cups of granulated sugar i cup of water 

I tablespoonful of glucose 



Cooking for Two 247 

Dissolve the sugar in the water and glucose, stir 
until the sugar is melted and proceed exactly as in 
making fondant. Cook to about 295" F. or until 
the syrup begins to show a slight tendency to an 
amber color, then remove at once from the lire to 
a saucepan of boiling water. Only sound grapes 
can be used, for if juice oozes from the fruit the effect 
of the candy is spoiled. If marshmallows are of large 
size, cut them in halves. English walnuts or almonds 
may also be used. Drop the article to be candied, 
gently, into the syrup, then with dipping fork lift out 
and set on the bottom of an inverted tin pan. Can- 
died articles do not stick to tin. After a time, even 
with great care, the syrup will become cloudy. Dis- 
continue the dipping and if necessary prepare another 
dish of syrup. The cloudy syrup may be used in 
cooking apples, etc. — but it is not suitable for can- 
died articles. 

BOILED FROSTING 

J4 cup of fine granulated sugar White of i egg 

Yi cup of water Grating of lemon rind or 

2 or 3 drops of acetic acid }^ teaspoonful vanilla extract 

With the sugar and water a syrup is to be made 
that does not grain; thus the syrup is to be cooked 
in the same manner as fondant ; i. e., stir the sugar 
and water until the sugar is melted and becomes hot, 
wash down the sides of the saucepan, cover and let 
boil three or four minutes, to dissolve any grains of 
sugar that remain ; add two or three drops of acetic 



248 Cooking for Two 

acid and let boil undisturbed to about 238° F., 
or until when the syrup is turned from the spoon a 
fine thread two inches in length clings from the spoon. 
Turn the syrup in a fine stream onto the white of 
egg, beaten dry, beating constantly meanwhile. Con- 
tinue the beating, occasionally, until the frosting is 
cold. If the frosting be cooked too much, add a little 
lemon juice ; if when cold it runs from the cake, the 
syrup was not cooked long enough. To remedy, put 
the frosting over the fire in a dish of water at just 
about the boiling point and beat constantly until the 
frosting thickens. 

BOILED CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

ij4 cups of fine granulated 2 ounces of chocolate, melted 
sugar Whites of 2 eggs, beaten dry 

J4 cup of sweet milk I teaspoonful of vanilla extract 

Cook the sugar and milk to 238° F. (soft ball) in 
the same manner as the sugar and water were cooked 
in the boiled frosting ; add the melted chocolate and, 
without stirring, pour together onto the whites of 
eggs. Flavor when cold. This frosting, if it be a 
little undercooked, will harden upon the outside in 
time. If it runs from the cake and is returned when 
cooler, it will not have its original gloss. 

NUT CARAMEL FROSTING 

Yi cup of granulated sugar 2 tablespoonfuls of caramel 

cooked to caramel syrup 

Yi. cup of boiling water 14 cup of water 

I cup of granulated sugar White of i egg, beaten dry 

Yz cup of pecan nut meats 



Cooking for Two 249 

Add the half cup of boihng water to the caramel 
and let simmer to a thick syrup. Turn this into a 
bottle for use as required. Boil the sugar, syrup and 
water to 238° F. or until the syrup dripping from the 
spoon spins a thread two inches in length. Pour onto 
the white of egg, beating with an egg beater mean- 
while. When all the syrup has been added to the 
egg, take out the beater, set the dish of frosting over 
the fire in a dish of boiling water, and beat until the 
frosting thickens and begins to sugar a little on the 
sides of the dish; beat in the nuts and spread at once 
upon a cake, leaving the surface uniformly rough, or 
with the spoon fashion waves through the frosting. 
When this is cooked just right, it cuts without 
crumbling. 

DIVINITY FROSTING 

2 cups of sugar (granulated i cup of pecan nut meats 

brown or maple) % teaspoonful of salt 

J^ cup of Karo Corn syrup 4 cooked figs, cut in slices 

Yz cup of water i teaspoonful of vanilla extract 
Whites of 2 eggs, beaten dry 

Boil the sugar, syrup and water to about 236° F. 
(the beginning of the soft ball stage). Pour in the 
usual manner onto the whites of the eggs and return 
to the fire to cook over hot water until the mixture 
sugars slightly on the edge; add the nuts, salt, fruit 
and flavoring and spread upon the cake. 

CARAMEL MARSHMALLOW FROSTING 

V/i cups of brown sugar i teaspoonful of butter 

y2 cup of cream Yi pound of marshmallows 



250 Cooking for Two 

Cook the sugar, cream and butter forty minutes, 
counting the time after boiling actually begins. Re- 
move from the fire and beat in the marshmallows. 
Continue beating until the frosting is of a consistency 
to spread. 

CONFECTIONER'S CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

J4 cup of granulated sugar Confectioner's sugar to make a 

J4 cup of boiling water paste 

I ounce of chocolate i teaspoonful of vanilla 

Cook the granulated sugar and water about five 
minutes ; add the chocolate and let stand till melted, 
then stir in the sugar and extract. Use while hot. 
If any be " left over," set aside, covered. When 
ready to use, add a little hot water and confectioner's 
sugar if necessary, and it is ready to use. 

CONFECTIONER'S CARAMEL FROSTING 

4 tablespoonfuls caramel syrup sifted confectioner's sugar 

5 ounces (about one cup) of i teaspoonful of vanilla 

Heat the syrup, then stir in the sugar and vanilla. 
If too stiff to spread, add a little boiling water; if too 
thin, a little more sugar is needed. 

FROSTING WITH GELATINE 

I level teaspoonful of gelatine ?4 cup of confectioner's sugar, 

1 tablespoonful of cold water sifted 

2 tablespoonfuls of boiling J^ teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 

water tract 



Cooking for Two 251 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve 
in the boiling water; stir in the sugar and flavoring 
and beat until of the proper consistency. This frost- 
ing may be used with pastry bag and tube. If it does 
not flow freely, set the bag in a warm (not hot) place 
for a few minutes. 

MARSHMALLOW ICING 

I cup of granulated sugar J4 pound of marshmallows 

J4 cup of water J4 teaspoonful of vanilla ox- 

The whites of 2 eggs tract 

Boil the sugar and water (as in making fondant) 
to 240° F. Pour in a fine stream upon the egg 
whites, beaten dry, beating constantly meanwhile. 
Beat occasionally until cool; add the marshmallows 
cut In four pieces, each, and the vanilla. This makes 
a light, fluffy icing that will not run from a cake. 



CHAPTER XV 

PRESERVATION OF FRUIT AND VEGETABLES BY 
CANNING, ETC. 

In cities and large towns fresh fruit may be ob- 
tained throughout the year and the necessity for 
"putting up" a large quantity of fruits no longer 
exists. But If one is distant from markets and, espe- 
cially. If one has more of any variety of fruit or 
vegetable than can be made use of while fresh, the 
surplus should be made available for future use. 

Micro-organisms exist everywhere, and under fa- 
vorable conditions for growth, as when moisture, 
warmth and proper food are present, they multiply. 
These organisms grow rapidly in food stuffs contain- 
ing nitrogen, as meat, fish, eggs, milk and beans, but 
they do not find so suitable matter for growth in fruits 
containing much acid and little nitrogen. Lemons, 
cranberries and rhubarb contain so much acid that 
they are rarely attacked by micro-organisms. In 
preserving vegetables and fruit the micro-organisms 
on the article or the utensils with which the articles 
must come In contact during the process of preserva- 
tion must be destroyed, then the product must be 



Cooking for Two 253 

sealed to exclude germs from without. But there are 
many kinds of micro-organisms ; some produce spores 
which (like the dried seeds of plants) may retain 
their vitality for a long time, even under conditions 
that destroy the parent germ. Thus while the parent 
organism might be destroyed if the food product 
were exposed ten or fifteen minutes to the tempera- 
ture of boiling water, the spores would require for 
their destruction exposure to heat at 212° F. for an 
hour or more. We have no means of knowing just 
what micro-organisms may be present in the articles 
we wish to preserve, but it has been found that, usu- 
ally, the germs that thrive In fruits and fruit juices 
can be destroyed by cooking ten or fifteen minutes 
at a temperature of 212° F. To sterilize the utensils 
put the spoons, jars, covers and such other articles 
as are to be used over the fire in cold water, let heat 
gradually to the boiling point, and then boil ten or 
fifteen minutes. Take the jars from the water, one 
at a time, and fill at once with the hot material. It 
Is well to let the can set on a cloth, saturated with 
boiling water, while it is being filled ; fill to overflow, 
leaving no space for germ laden air. Adjust the 
rubber, take the cover from the boiling water, set 
In place and close securely. The covers of Mason 
jars need to be screwed down more tightly when 
the cans are cold. Never use a rubber twice; pur- 
chase a new supply each season. Jars holding a 
pint or a half pint are the best size for a family 
of two. 



254 Cooking for Two 

PREPARATION OF FRUIT FOR CANNING 

Articles preserved by sterilization, or the destruc- 
tion of all germ life, are said to be canned. The 
addition of sugar, as in the canning of fruit, has 
nothing to do with the success of the process. The 
fruit will keep just as well, if no sugar be used. If 
the fruit is to be served with bread and butter, sugar 
may be added to make it palatable. If fruit juice be 
put up for use in frozen desserts, omit the sugar. 
Fruit for canning may be cooked in an open kettle 
and transferred to the can, or it may be cooked in 
the jar in which it is to be stored. Prepare the syrup, 
add the fruit, peeled and stoned as necessary, then 
cook the required time and seal as directed. Rhu- 
barb, cranberries and green gooseberries, on account 
of the large quantity of acid in their composition, may 
be successfully canned without sterilization by cook- 
ing. It were safer, perhaps, to sterilize the jars and 
covers, though, if bacteria were present, they might 
not attack these foods. 



CRANBERRIES CANNED FOR SUMMER USE 

Heat fruit jars gradually, then rinse jars and cov- 
ers in boiling water. Put as many cranberries as pos- 
sible into each jar, then pour in cold water to fill the 
jars to overflow; adjust the rubbers and covers and 
set the jars aside in a cool place. Green gooseberries 
may be canned in the same way. 



Cooking for Two 255 

CANNED RHUBARB 

Sterilize jars and covers. Cut the peeled stalks 
of rhubarb of a length to come nearly to the top 
of the jar and fill to overflow with fresh-drawn, 
cold water; adjust rubbers and covers and store in 
a cool, dark place. 

GRAPE JUICE 

Wash the grapes and pick them from the stems. 
Set them in a preserving kettle over the fire, crush 
with a pestle and let them slowly heat to the boiling 
point. Let cook until the skins are tender (about 
fifteen minutes), then strain through two folds of 
cheese cloth, pressing out all the juice possible. Heat 
the juice to the boiling point and turn into sterilized 
jars, filling them to overflow; put on rubbers and 
sterilized covers; or store in sterile bottles with 
sterile corks and sealing wax. For ices it is prefer- 
able to put up fruit juices without sugar. For other 
use sugar may be added. Use half a cup of sugar 
to a quart of juice. 

BERRY AND CURRANT JUICES 

The juice of berries and currants may be canned in 
the same manner as grape juice. Such juice may be 
made into jelly at any time. Raspberry and straw- 
berry juice are particularly good for sherbets, 
punches and the like, and for these uses they should 
be put up without sugar. When using sugar take 



256 Cooking for Two 

a cup for each quart of juice, except currant juice. 
On account of the acidity of currants take a pint of 
sugar for each quart of juice. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES OR RASPBERRIES 

Hull and weigh the berries. For each pound of 
choice berries allow ten ounces of sugar and one- 
fourth a cup of water or an equal quantity of juice 
pressed from inferior berries. Cook the sugar and 
liquid to a thick syrup and let cool a little. Put the 
berries, washed and drained, into fruit jars and pour 
the syrup over the berries in the jars, filling them 
to overflow; adjust the rubbers and covers. Sur- 
round with water at about the temperature of the 
jars and let boil ten minutes after boiling begins. 
Tighten the covers. Store in a dark, dry and cool 
place. 

CANNED PEACHES OR PEARS 

Cut the fruit in halves (this can be done more 
easily before the skin is removed) and remove stones, 
or core and skin. Put into jars. For each quart jar 
allow two cups of sugar and a cup of water; make 
a syrup of the sugar and water, skim carefully and 
use to fill the sterilized jars to overflow. Add half 
a dozen kernels taken from the peach stones, before 
adding the syrup. Adjust the rubbers and covers 
loosely and let cook about ten minutes after boiling 
begins. Tighten the covers and let cool in the boiler, 
or remove one at a time to a pan of hot water and 



Cooking for Two 257 

fill to overflow with boiling syrup, then adjust the 
rubbers and the covers. 

CANNED PINEAPPLE 

Remove the outer skin, then cut in slices, pick 
from the core with a silver fork or grate according 
to the use to which the canned product is to be put. 
Grated pineapple, for omelets, sherbets. Bavarian 
creams, etc., should be canned without sugar; also 
pineapple, picked from the core to be used in salads 
or cocktails, is in better condition if canned without 
sugar. Can slices of pineapple in the same manner 
as peaches or pears. 

JELLY MAKING AND JELLIES 

All varieties of fruit when about ripe contain pec- 
tin. If the juice be withdrawn from the fruit, the 
pectin is withdrawn with it. Boll the juice with the 
proper proportion of sugar and the pectin will cause 
the mass to jelly. Pectin is not fully developed until 
the fruit is nearly ripe; long keeping changes the 
character of the pectin as does, also, too long cooking 
of the juice with sugar. Then for success In jelly 
making let the fruit be not over ripe, and let it be 
freshly gathered. Also avoid cooking the juice and 
sugar too much. 

Add fruits make the best jelly. No jelly Is better 
than that made of currants. , Large, firm fruit, as ap- 
ples, crab apples and quinces, must be boiled in water 



258 Cooking for Two 

until soft. Avoid stirring the fruit during cooking 
as it is thought to make the jelly cloudy. The flavor- 
ing matter and pectin will become dissolved in the 
water. No water should be added to juicy fruits, 
as grapes, currants and berries. The water added to 
firm fruits must be evaporated by cooking before the 
addition of sugar. By this cooking the fresh flavor 
of the fruit is diminished somewhat. 

The juice may be extracted from juicy fruits by 
heating them very slowly, either on the back of the 
range or in a double boiler. Juice may be extracted 
from currants without heat, by simply squeezing the 
fruit in a bag with the hands, then letting drip from 
the bag. 

A flannel bag is thought to give the clearest jelly, 
but a bag made of new cotton of close texture an- 
swers admirably. 

The quantity of sugar needed varies somewhat 
with the season, more being required in a cold wet 
season than in a season of much sunshine. Usually 
a cup of sugar to each cup of juice is the right pro- 
portion, though many successful jelly makers use 
but three-fourths a cup of sugar to a cup of juice; 
the latter proportion is taken especially when the 
juice of firm fruits is used and the water is evap- 
orated by cooking before the addition of the sugar. 

For jellies made with firm fruit cook the juice 
rapidly fifteen or twenty minutes; have the sugar 
made hot in the oven, add it, and let the mixture 
boil about two minutes. Try a little on a cold 



Cooking for Two 259 

saucer; as soon as it jellies on the saucer it is ready 
to pour into the glasses. When the juice is put over 
the fire, set the jelly glasses on a towel in a pan, pour 
lukewarm water in and around the glasses and let 
it gradually heat nearly to the boiling point. To 
make the sugar hot in the oven, spread it on tin or 
agate plates; do not have the oven too hot and stir 
the sugar occasionally. Let juice from juicy fruits 
boil about five minutes before adding the sugar. 



COVERING JELLIES 

Bacteria and yeasts, the micro-organisms with 
which we have to deal in canning, do not thrive in 
a heavy sugar syrup, thus jellies and " pound for 
pound " preserves need not be sealed hermetically, 
but other organisms, molds, grow freely on moist 
sugary substances exposed to the air. To protect 
jelly from molds cover with a towel as soon as cold 
and as soon as possible cover more securely. The 
simplest and most satisfactory cover is white paper. 
Cut out pieces of paper the size of the glass at the 
top of the jelly and a second set of papers about an 
inch in diameter larger than the first. Brush over 
one side of the smaller papers with alcohol or brandy 
and press upon the jelly. Brush the edge of the 
second pieces with beaten white of egg or mucilage 
and press down, over the top of the glass and upon 
the sides of the glass, to which it will closely adhere. 
Store in a cool dry place. 



260 Cooking for Two 

CURRANT, APPLE AND CRAB APPLE JELLIES 

Follow the directions given under jelly making 

and jellies. 

BLACKBERRY-AND-APPLE JELLY 

3 pounds of blackberries I cup of water 

1Y2 pounds of apples 2j/^ pounds of sugar 

Core the apples, and cut in small pieces, without 
removing the skins. Mash the berries with a wooden 
pestle; add the water and apple and let simmer ten 
minutes, mashing the fruit occasionally. Strain 
through two folds of fine cheesecloth; let the juice 
boil, then add the sugar and cook gently half an 
hour, stirring occasionally. Store in jelly glasses. 
The apple gives a firmer jelly than the berries alone 
will give. 

APPLE-AND-RASPBERRY JELLY 

54 peck of apples Sugar as needed or J^ cup to 

I pint of raspberry juice or each cup of juice 

juice of 4 lemons 

Cut the apples in quarters, removing imperfec- 
tions; pour on boiling water until it can be seen 
through the pieces, cover and let cook until soft 
throughout. Let drain in a bag. When cold enough 
to handle press out the last of the juice with the 
hands. Do not add this to the juice secured by 
draining, but cook by itself. To the drained juice 
add the raspberry juice (fresh or canned) and let 
boil fifteen minutes. Have the sugar made hot in 




Fruit Looked in the Jaks. — Pages j^4^ j^o. 




Apple and Ivaspberry Jelly. — Page 260. 




Canned String Beans. — Page 267. 




Pop - Overs. — !'Lige 2jy. 




Baking Po\viii:r liiscuiT. — -Page 280. 




Fruit and Nut Rolls. —Page 2S0. 



Cooking for Two 261 

the oven; add the sugar and let boll till the mixture 
jellies slightly on a cold dish. Jelly containing apple 
grows firm on keeping. 



APPLE-AND-MINT JELLY 

2 pounds of " Greenings " Green color-paste 

2 bunches of garden mint J4 cup of sugar to each cup of 

Juice of I lemon juice 

After the apples are cooked and drained, there 
should be about a pint of juice by draining and a 
pint by pressing the bag. Keep these portions sep- 
arate. 

Wash, dry and chop fine the mint leaves stripped 
from the stalks. Add these to the apples when they 
are partly cooked. Add the lemon juice and color- 
paste a short time before the jelly is to be poured 
into the glasses. This gives a very delicate flavor of 
mint; much of the flavor seems to be dissipated 
during cooking. Creme de menthe cordial made at 
home, or purchased, will give a more pronounced 
flavor to the jelly. 

GRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE 

Take six grapefruit and four lemons; cut each 
fruit in quarters and slice the quarters through pulp 
and rind as thin as possible, discarding all seeds. 
Weigh the prepared fruit, and to each pound add 
three pints of cold water. Set aside for twenty-four 
hours. Let boil gently until the rind is perfectly 



262 Cooking for Two 

tender, then set aside until the next day. Weigh the 
material and to each pound add one pound of sugar. 
Let cook until it thickens slightly on a cold dish. 
The mixture will thicken still more on cooling and 
care must be taken not to cook it too much. Stir 
occasionally, while cooking, to avoid burning. Store 
as jelly. With a small, hard-wood board upon which 
to rest the fruit, and a thin, sharp knife, the slicing 
Is quickly done. Use all the water designated. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

Substitute one dozen oranges for the grapefruit 
and follow the recipe for grapefruit marmalade. 

APPLE MARMALADE 

Pare, quarter and core the apples and put over 
the fire with just enough water to keep the fruit from 
burning ; cover closely and let cook until soft ; press 
through a colander. Measure the pulp and allow 
three-fourths a cup of sugar to each cup of pulp. Stir 
and cook until when tested on a cold saucer the mix- 
ture does not separate. Often a lemon or an orange 
is used to each one or two pounds of apple. Slice as 
for orange marmalade, discarding the seeds ; let cook 
in water to cover until the peel is tender, then add 
to the apple pulp. 

PEACH MARMALADE 
Prepare in the same manner as apple marmalade. 



Cooking for Two 263 

APPLE BUTTER 

Y2 peck of sour apples Cider, fresh or boiled 

I quart of sliced sweet apples Spices to taste 

Pare, quarter, core and slice the sour apples; add 
the sweet apples. Weigh the apples and take sugar 
equal to half the weight of the apples. Add cider 
until it comes nearly to the top of the apples and let 
cook, stirring occasionally with a perforated paddle 
that comes for the purpose or with a slitted wooden 
spoon. When the apples are soft and well broken 
up, add the sugar and spice in quantity as desired 
and stir constantly until of the consistency of marma- 
lade. Water may take the place of the cider. Cin- 
namon, mace, nutmeg and cloves one or more are 
the spices usually selected. Peach or plum butter is 
made in the same way. 

TOMATO MARMALADE 

4 quarts of ripe tomatoes i cup of raisins 

6 lemons 4 pounds of granulated sugar 

Remove the skins from the tomatoes and slice the 
lemons very thin, discarding the seeds. Seed the 
raisins. Put the ingredients into a preserving kettle 
in layers. Heat slowly to the boiling point, then let 
simmer until quite thick. Seal in jars while hot. 
The recipe makes about three pints. 

ORIENTAL PRESERVE 

5 pounds of green tomatoes 2 cups of water 

6 lemons i medium jar of preserved 
I pound of sugar ginger 



264 Cooking for Two 

Dissolve the sugar In the water and add the to- 
matoes, lemons and ginger root cut in thin slices, also 
the syrup from the ginger jar. Let simmer until the 
tomatoes are shriveled. Seal in glass jars. Keep 
three or four weeks before using. 

BLACKBERRY JAM 

Put the berries in a preserving kettle, cover closely 
and let become hot, then with a wooden pestle press 
through a sieve fine enough to keep back the seeds. 
Measure the pulp and for each two cups take one 
cup of sugar. Heat slowly to the boiling point, stir- 
ring often. Let cook nearly half an hour, stirring 
almost constantly. Store as canned fruit, or cook an 
hour or more and store as jelly. This makes a par- 
ticularly good sauce for cornstarch puddings and the 
like. 

SUNSHINE STRAWBERRIES 

Put into the preserving kettle, in layers, as many 
pounds of sugar as of hulled, washed and drained 
strawberries. When the juice is drawn out a little, 
set over the fire to cook twenty minutes after boiling 
commences. Turn the berries into agate pans or 
earthen plates, cover with panes of glass and set in 
the sun. Let stand two days, stirring two or three 
times each day. Store without reheating in jars or 
glasses. The time of cooking may be cut down to 
ten minutes, if the fruit be left in the sun a day or 
two longer. 



Cooking for Two 265 

GINGERED PEARS 

4 pounds of pared-and-sliced J^ pound of ginger root 

pears i cup of water 

3 small lemons 3 pounds of sugar 

Cut the ginger root as small as possible ; add water 
to cover well and let simmer to make a strong de- 
coction. Strain off the water, of which there should 
be one cup, add to it the lemons, cut in thin slices 
(discard the seeds), and let cook until the peel is 
tender; add the sugar and when dissolved the sliced 
pears and cook slowly until the pears are tender. 

BAR-LE-DUC CURRANTS AND GOOSEBERRIES 

Take selected gooseberries or currants of large 
size, one by one, and with tiny embroidery scissors 
carefully cut the skin on one side, making a slit of 
perhaps one-fourth an inch. Through this, with a 
sharp needle, remove the seeds, one at a time, to 
preserve the shape of the fruit. Take the weight 
of the fruit in strained honey, and, when hot, add the 
prepared fruit. Let simmer three or four minutes. 
Carefully skim out the fruit. Reduce the syrup, at 
a gentle simmer, to the desired consistency. Pour 
over the fruit. Then store as jelly. 

CANNING VEGETABLES 

To can vegetables successfully, one needs have ac- 
cess to a garden, and take the vegetables before the 
sugar in composition has changed to starch. Only 



266 Cooking for Two 

tiny peas, lima beans, string beans, and corn " in the 
milk " can be put up without fear of failure. The 
time of cooking will vary a little from year to year, 
according to the season and condition of the ground; 
but these things modify the time of cooking less than 
does the manner in which the canning is done. In 
certain canners the cooking is done under a heavy 
pressure of steam. In some of the steam cookers, 
while the steam pressure makes an appreciable dif- 
ference in the time needed for canning, longer cook- 
ing is demanded than in the best canners. In others, 
the pressure of the steam corresponds to that ob- 
tained in an ordinary kettle, closely covered, or in 
a wash boiler. The time given in the following 
recipes is for canning when an ordinary kettle or a 
wash boiler is fitted up for the purpose with a rack, 
upon which the jars may stand. This rack or trivet 
is to insure the circulation of water below the jars. 
A tin sheet filled with holes resting on baking-powder 
box covers or a rack made by fastening narrow strips 
of wood upon two lengthwise strips of wood answers 
all purposes. Of course, the sheet or rack needs 
be of a size to let down easily into the kettle or 
boiler. 

CANNED CORN 

Pack the com (see above), cut from the cobs, into 
jars, pressing it down tight and filling the jars nearly 
to the top. Lay a folded cloth on the rack. On this 
set the jars. Pour into the kettle lukewarm water 
to one-third the height of the jars. Put on the jar 



Cooking for Two 267 

covers. Cover the kettle, and let cook three hours 
after boiling begins. If the jars are not now full, 
use one or more jars to fill the others to overflow. 
Adjust the rubbers and covers, return to the fire, and 
cook one hour and a half. Then adjust the covers, 
and let cool in the kettle. If Mason jars be used, 
tighten the covers again when the jars are cold. 

CANNING PEAS 
Select the peas while young and tender. Shell and 
look them over, wash in cold water, then scald by 
pouring over boiling water and draining immedi- 
ately.^ Pack in glass jars, shaking down well. Fill 
to the brim with cold water. Adjust the rubbers, 
and screw on covers loose. Put a cloth or plate 
in a kettle with a flat bottom, to prevent contact, 
then put in the cans, separating them from each 
other with a folded cloth. Fill kettle not quite to 
cover of cans with cold water. Bring to boiling- 
point, and boil one hour, adding boiling water as 
that in the kettle evaporates. The kettle should be 
covered from the first. At the end of an hour add 
boiling water to fill the jars to overflow, fasten the 
covers and cook half an hour. 

CANNED STRING BEANS 

Cut the young tender green beans into pieces, 

lengthwise; cut butter beans into three or four pieces 

crosswise. Put these Into cold water as cut. Drain 

and put into jars. Set into the kettle as above. 



268 Cooking for Two 

When thoroughly heated fill the jars with boiling 
water^ cover and let cook one hour. Add half a 
teaspoonful of salt to each pint jar, also, if needed, 
boiling water to fill to overflow. Adjust the rubbers 
and covers and let cook twenty minutes. Fasten 
down the covers. 



CANNED TOMATOES 

Peel small ripe tomatoes and cut out the hard part 
round the stem end. Put, whole, into the sterilized 
jar as many as the jar will hold without crushing. 
In the meantime cook enough pared-and-sliced toma- 
toes as are needed to make about a pint; pour this, 
while hot, around the tomatoes in the jar and shake 
the jar to fill all the open spaces. Put on the cover 
and let cook set on a folded cloth on a rack in a 
saucepan or steam cooker half an hour. Have ready 
hot tomato; fill the jar to overflow and cover as 
usual. 



CANNED ASPARAGUS 

The asparagus should be fresh-cut. Use only 
the tender portion of the stalks. Wash and drain 
this and put it in the cans with the heads up; cook 
without water one hour; put a teaspoonful of salt 
into a quart of boiling water and use to fill the jars 
to overflow. Adjust the rubbers and covers and let 
cook nearly an hour longer. 



Cooking for Two 269 

A NEW WAY OF CANNING FRUIT AND VEGE- 
TABLES 

A new way has been discovered by which fruits 
can be canned without boiUng. By this method the 
fruits retain their natural shape, color, and flavor, 
and remain plump and attractive in appearance. It 
is called the intermittent Pasteurizing method. 

Clean fruit or vegetables are placed in clean cans, 
and water that has been boiled to sterilize it is poured 
over it, completely filling the cans. The covers are 
then put on light, but not screwed down, after 
which the cans are set in a boiler of water up to the 
cover. The water in the boiler is then heated until 
the temperature In the center of the cans records 
165° F. The cans are held at this temperature for 
fifteen minutes. They are then removed, and the 
tops screwed down firm. After standing from 
twenty-four to forty-eight hours, the cans are again 
heated to the same temperature for the same length 
of time. A day or two later they are heated for the 
third time, after which the contents of the cans are 
sterile, and will keep perfectly. 

The principles involved in this method of canning 
are as follows: The fermentation and molds on 
canned goods are caused by the growth in the fruit 
and juice of microscopic plants. These plants are 
propagated by spores which correspond to the seed 
of higher plants. These spores are produced by the 
million. They are blown about by the wind, and are 



270 Cooking for Two 

everywhere present, being especially abundant on the 
fruit itself. 

With moisture and a summer temperature, these 
spores grow very rapidly, resulting in fermented and 
putrefactive products. By heating them to a tem- 
perature of 165° F., every spore that has started to 
grow will be killed. The spores that have not started 
to grow will not be killed by the first heating, but 
by waiting twenty-four to forty-eight hours almost 
all will germinate. The second heating kills all 
these, and, if any spores are still left, they germinate 
and are killed by the third heating. Fruits and 
vegetables thus sterilized in the cans keep practically 
in their natural condition, and represent the perfec- 
tion of canned goods. 

Corn and peas cannot be preserved successfully by 
this method, but all of the fruits and such vegetables 
as tomatoes, green beans, wax beans, cauliflower, 
asparagus, etc., when thus treated, keep perfectly, 
retaining their natural color, flavor, and texture. 

PICKLES 

Micro-organisms do not thrive in strong acids, 
thus with proper care fruit and vegetables may be 
kept in vinegar for some time. 

SMALL GHERKINS 

I quart of small cucumbers Vinegar scalding hot 

y^ cup of table salt 2 or 3 chilli peppers 

Cold water i tablespoonful of mixed spices 



Cooking for Two 271 

As soon as the cucumbers are picked, scrub them 
without breaking the skin and throw into cold water, 
In which the salt has been dissolved. Let stand over- 
night, pour off the water, add fresh water and drain, 
then pack the cucumbers, peppers and spices in a 
sterilized jar; adjust the cover, pour in vinegar to 
overflow, tighten the jar and store in a dry cool 
place. After the jar is opened, if the vinegar scums 
over, pour It off and replace with a new supply, scald- 
ing hot. The pickles should thus keep in good con- 
dition even If the jar be opened daily. 

PICCALILLI 

I quart of green tomatoes I ripe cucumber 

I pint of red tomatoes ^ cup of salt 

1 head of celery 3 cups of vinegar 

2 red sweet peppers I pound of brown sugar 

I green sweet pepper J4 teaspoonful of mustard 

I large mild onion J4 teaspoonful of pepper 

Yi small head of cabbage 

Chop the vegetables, cover with the salt and let 
stand overnight. Drain and press In a cloth, to re- 
move all the liquid possible ; add the vinegar, sugar 
and spices and let cook until clear (nearly an hour). 
Store hot in sterilized jars as canned fruit. 



CHAPTER XVI 

FLOUR MIXTURES : QUICK BREADS 

The cooking of grains, as mush or porridge, is of 
comparatively recent date, but the grinding of grains 
into meal or flour and mixing the product with water 
and baking it is a custom as old as written history. 
The most delicate and feathery cake that is made to- 
day is a direct and lineal descendant from the cake of 
stone-ground meal and water, baked on stones made 
hot in the blazing campfire of primitive man. 

In flour mixtures the essentials are flour, salt, wet- 
ting and leaven, or something to make the mixture 
light and porous. The leaven may be either carbon 
dioxide, evolved in various ways, air beaten or folded 
into the mixture ( sponge cake ) , or the expansion of 
a cold liquid when heated. Usually all three agents 
are present and at work in a flour mixture. 

In quick breads (time is a necessity, when carbon 
dioxide is evolved by the growth of a microscopic 
plant — yeast — introduced into the dough) ; the car- 
bon dioxide is usually generated by the use of bicar- 
bonate of soda (an alkali) and an acid, as cream of 
tartar, sour milk, molasses, etc. 

Keep in mind that the proportion of flour to liquid 



Cooking for Two 273 

determines the consistency of the mixture, and that 
the quantity of liquid used determines the size of the 
finished product. Different names are given to mix- 
tures, according to the proportion existing between 
the flour and the water. As, when one measure of 
liquid is used to one or two measures of flour, the 
mixture is called a batter; and when one measure of 
liquid is used to three or four measures of flour, the 
resulting mixture is a dough. 

BATTER AND DOUGH 

When a batter is made of equal measures or parts 
of flour and liquid, it may be poured from the dish 
in a continuous stream, and it is known as a thin or 
pour batter. 

When a batter is made of one measure of liquid to 
two measures of flour, it breaks while being turned 
from a dish and is known as a thick or drop batter. 

SOFT OR STIFF DOUGH 

When one measure of liquid is used to three meas- 
ures of flour, a soft dough is formed — to four meas- 
ures of flour, a stif dough results. A soft dough 
sticks to the sides of the bowl; a stiff dough while 
being mixed gathers to itself all the material on the 
sides of the bowl, and the bowl is clean, when the 
dough is mixed. In practice there are gradations 
between these mixtures. The mixture for fine baking- 
powder biscuit is neither a soft nor a stiff dough, but 



274 Cooking for Two 

intermediate between the two. All doughs are mix- 
tures of a consistency to be kneaded with the hands. 

Proportions of Salt and Flour. One-fourth 
a teaspoonful of salt is needed to each cup of flour, 
except when shortening that has been previously salted 
is used, when a little less is required. 

Proportions of Baking Powder and Flour. 
Two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder to each 
cup of flour is needed, except in mixtures where eggs 
or much beating introduces air into the mixture 
(heated air expands, continued heat hardens the cell 
walls, and the finished product is lightened to a certain 
degree). In the beating of butter and sugar " to a 
cream " air is beaten into the mixture, but the greatest 
quantity of air is incorporated, when the whites and 
yolks of eggs are separated and air is beaten in to 
their full capacity of retention. 

Proportions of Soda and Cream of Tartar. 
Half a level teaspoonful of soda and a level teaspoon- 
ful and one-fourth of cream of tartar furnish, in the 
effect produced, a very close equivalent to two level 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Liquid used with Baking Powder, Soda and 
Cream of Tartar Mixtures. When bicarbonate 
of soda (an alkali) and cream of tartar (an acid) are 
used In making baking powder (and the same should 
be true when we measure these ingredients ourselves) , 
they are so carefully weighed that one exactly neutral- 
izes the other, leaving in the dough In which they are 
used no excess of either acid or alkali ; thus no free 



Cooking for Two 275 

acid, such as would exist in sour milk, lemon juice or 
molasses, can be added to the mixture, unless enough 
alkali to neutralize the acidity be, also, added. 

General Rule for Baking Powder, Soda and 
Cream of Tartar Mixtures. Avoid the use of 
acids, as sour milk, molasses or lemon juice, in mix- 
tures lightened with baking powder or bicarbonate 
of soda and cream of tartar. 

Occasional Use of Baking Powder with Sour 
Milk or Molasses. Sometimes sour milk or cream 
is more readily available than sweet milk; soda may 
be added to this, to correct the acidity, and the milk 
then can be used with baking powder as in case it were 
sweet milk, if allowance be made for the carbon diox- 
ide resultant from the combination of the soda and 
sour milk. In using molasses the acidity must be 
neutralized with soda; then baking powder may be 
used to lighten the mixture. 

Proportions of Soda and Baking Powder to 
BE Used with Sour Milk and Molasses. Use 
half a level teaspoonful of soda for each cup of mo- 
lasses or thick sour milk or cream. Cut down the 
quantity of baking powder to one level teaspoonful to 
each cup of flour, or if eggs are used the quantity of 
baking powder may be cut down still more. 

Method of Combining Flour Mixtures. An 
article over-porous on one side and heavy on the 
other, or with streaks of heaviness here and there, is 
neither wholesome nor attractive in appearance. 
Again, when soda or baking powder is stirred into 



276 Cooking for Two 

a liquid, especially if it be a hot or an acid liquid, 
bubbles of gas begin to appear at once and are lost 
before the mixture can be stirred into the dough; 
accordingly, then, to secure a mixture of even light- 
ness throughout, it is necessary that the dry leavening 
agents be sifted with the flour two or three times, and 
salt, and sometimes sugar, is sifted with these. Now 
stir the liquid into the dry ingredients and bake as 
soon as possible. 

How TO Add Shortening. When a small quan- 
tity of shortening, as one, two or three tablespoonfuls, 
is to be added to a mixture, it may be melted and 
beaten in at the last. When a larger quantity is to 
be used, it may be beaten until creamy, and the sugar 
beaten into it,, as in cake making; or it may be cut 
into the flour with a knife or the fingers, as in making 
biscuits, or partly cut in and partly folded in, as in 
making pastry. 

How TO Add Eggs. If a hollow cake, like pop- 
overs, is to be produced, add the egg, beaten without 
separating the white from the yolk, to the milk and 
beat the two together into the dry mixture. When a 
spongy texture is desired, beat the whites and yolks 
separately, then add the yolks with the milk and, at 
the last, beat in the whites. 

How TO Bake Quick Breads. Quick breads are 
steamed, baked in the oven, in individual portions, 
also in loaves or sheets, and on a griddle on the top 
of the stove. Breads containing sugar and butter, one 
or both, burn more easily than do those without such 



Cooking for Two 277 

ingredients. Eggs are cooked at a low temperature, 
and thus mixtures containing many eggs should be 
cooked more slowly than those with no eggs. 



POP OVERS 

I egg, beaten light J4 teaspoonful of salt 

I cup of milk 6 teaspoonfuls of butter 

1 cup of sifted pastry flour 

Do not separate the white from the yolk of the egg ; 
beat light, add the milk and continue to use the beater 
while the flour and salt are gradually beaten into the 
liquid. Butter six cups of an Iron gem pan; half 
fill the other six with boiling water, put a teaspoonful 
of butter into each of the buttered cups and pour the 
mixture into them. Bake on the floor of a moderate 
oven about thirty-five minutes. Muflin or pop over 
pans with only six compartments are not often found, 
but the pan with a dozen cups can be used successfully 
by half filling the unused cups with water. 

RYE MEAL MUFFINS 

(Sample Recipe) 

y^ cup of rye meal powder 

y^ cup of wheat flour i egg 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar ys to yi cup of milk 

y teaspoonful of salt 2 tablespoonfuls of melted but- 

2 level teaspoonfuls of baking ter 

Sift together, three times, all the dry ingredients. 
Beat the egg, add the milk and stir into the dry 
ingredients. Lastly, beat in the butter. Bake in six 



278 Cooking for Two 

well-buttered muffin cups in a moderate oven about 
twenty-five minutes. Half fill the other six cups with 
boiling water. The egg may be omitted, or the white 
may be used to clarify the coffee for two or three 
mornings and the yolk be used in the muffins. Heat 
the pan before filling. 



CORN MEAL, ARLINGTON MEAL, OR GRAHAM 
FLOUR MUFFINS 

Prepare as Rye Meal Muffins, substituting one of 
the above ingredients for the rye meal. With corn 
meal, either white or yellow, a third of a cup of sugar 
is often approved. 



SALLY LUNN 

2 cups of pastry flour of tartar 

% teaspoonful of salt i egg with yolk or white of 

3 tablespoonfuls of granulated another 

sugar 14 cup of milk 

Yz teaspoonful of soda 3 tablespoonfuls of melted but- 

lYz level teaspoonfuls of cream ter 

Sift together the dry ingredients. Add the milk 
to the beaten eggs and stir into the dry ingredients, 
stir in the butter; turn into a buttered shallow pan 
and let bake about twenty minutes. Cut in squares 
and serve hot or cold. This mixture may be baked in 
a muffin pan. 




Oli\ E Sandwiches. — Page ^07. 




SHAPINi.i I'\RKER lIuLSE ROLLS. ^ Pd^^L^ J'C;,". 




Making Xuisettf. Sandwiches. — Page _:;r>S. 




1J[<F_AD AND Coffee Cake made with One Veast Cake. P, 



age $03. 




SiiAPixG Lady I'^incer Rolls. — Pa^^ .'pj. 



^^ 


'^' : " ""-"^m^ 


p 






, ' "lUfiik^ 


W- 


;:"vlg 




iii/v . '"''■"1 



■iSfcrrr*^'' : A 





Ready to I\Iake Dread. — Pi 



Gooking for Two 279 

DELICATE CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

Yi cup of corn meal 2 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 

Yi cup of boiling water der 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

Yi cup of pastry flour i egg, beaten light 

Yi teaspoonful of salt Yi cup of milk 

Pour the boiling water over the corn meal, add the 
butter and mix thoroughly; cover and let stand an 
hour or longer ; add the flour, salt, sugar and baking 
powder sifted together; add the egg and milk and 
mix all together thoroughly. The mixture is quite 
thin. Bake in a hot, well-buttered muffin pan about 
twenty-five minutes. The recipe will make one dozen 
small muffins. 



SOFT CORN BREAD 

(Miss Scott) 

I pint of sweet milk i tablespoonful of butter 

Yi cup of white corn meal I egg,- beaten light 

Yi teaspoonful of salt i level tablespoonful of baking 

powder 

Scald the milk in a double boiler, stir in the meal 
and let cook three hours, then beat in the other ingre- 
dients. Note that it is a tablespoonful and not a tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Turn into a buttered 
baking dish suitable for the table. Bake about forty 
minutes. Serve hot from the dish. This is often 
called Spoon corn bread. 



280 Cooking for Two 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

2 cups of sifted pastry flour 2 to 4 tablespoonfuls shorten- 
4 level teaspoonfuls of baking ing 

powder /4 to % cup of milk or water 
y^ teaspoonful of salt 

Pass together through a sieve, three times, the flour, 
salt and baking powder. With a knife or the tips 
of the fingers work in the shortening ; add the liquid 
a little at a time, mixing it with a knife meanwhile 
to a soft dough, but one that can be handled. Turn 
the dough on to a floured board, turn it with the knife 
until lightly floured, then knead with the hands 
slightly, to get it into a smooth mass; pat with the 
rolling pin and roll Into a sheet about three-fourths an 
inch thick; cut Into rounds; set these close together 
in a buttered pan and bake from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. White flour, or half white and half entire 
wheat or Graham flour or rye meal, may be used. 
The recipe makes from twelve to sixteen biscuits, 
according to size. 



FRUIT - AND - NUT ROLLS 

2 cups of sifted pastry flour i tablespoonful of softened 

^ teaspoonful of salt butter 

4 level teaspoonfuls of baking ^ cup of cleaned currants or 

powder Sultana raisins 

Yi, cup of shortening ^ cup of filberts, cut in 3 or 4 
About y-2 cup of milk pieces 

I egg, if desired 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, if 

desired 



Cooking for Two 281 

Sift the dry ingredients together, three times, and 
work in the shortening with a knife or the tips of the 
fingers. Beat the egg — this may be omitted, it sim- 
ply makes the rolls more nutritious — add part of the 
milk and mix to a dough. Knead the dough (on the 
board) slightly, then roll into a rectangular sheet 
about one-third an inch thick. Brush the sheet of 
dough with the softened butter, then sprinkle with 
the nuts and fruit (also the sugar if it is used) . Roll 
the dough over and over compactly, then cut the roll 
in pieces an inch long. Set these on end close together 
in a buttered baking pan. Bake about twenty-five 
minutes. 

BLACKBERRY ROLY POLY 

I pint of blackberries J^ teaspoonful (scant) of salt 

J4 cup of water J^ cup of shortening 

^ cup of sugar Yolk of i egg 

i/^ cups of pastry flour Milk or water 

3 level teaspoonfuls of baking White of i egg, beaten slightly 

powder Granulated sugar 

Cook the berries with the water in a covered sauce- 
pan until softened and strain through a sieve fine 
enough to keep back the seeds; add the sugar and 
let cook until quite thick, stirring occasionally. Sift 
together the flour, baking powder and salt, work in 
the shortening and mix to a dough with the yolk of 
egg and a little milk or water. Turn the dough onto 
a floured board and knead, to get it in shape, then 
roll out into a rectangular sheet one-fourth an inch 
thick; cut this into four pieces longer than wide. 



282 Cooking for Two 

Spread each piece with the blackberry mixture, roll 
up like a jelly roll and set into a baking pan. Brush 
the top of each roll with white of egg, then dredge 
with sugar. Bake about twenty-five minutes. Serve 
hot with the rest of the blackberry, kept hot in boiling 
water, as a sauce. 



STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE 

iJ4 cups of pastry flour %. cup of shortening 

% cup of potato flour or corn- Milk as needed 

starch Butter to spread the cake 

4 level teaspoonfuls of baking i basket of strawberries 

powder i cup of granulated sugar 
^2 teaspoonful of salt 

Hull and wash the berries, cut them in halves and 
mix with the sugar; let stand in a warm but not hot 
place while the cake is baking. Prepare the ingredi- 
ents as baking powder biscuit mixture, leaving it a 
little softer. Turn dough into a buttered pie plate, 
spread it evenly, drawing it away from the center 
somewhat. Let bake about twenty minutes. With 
a sharp pointed knife, cut the crust all around midway 
between the top and bottom, then gently pull it apart. 
Set one piece on a plate, spread with butter, pour on 
part of the prepared berries, set the other half of the 
crust above the berries, spread it with butter and then 
with the rest of the berries. Serve either with or 
without cream. 



Cooking for Two 283 

HOT APPLE TRIANGLES 

2 cups of flour i^ cup of sweet milk 

J4 cup of sugar i apple, pared and cut in 

3 level teaspoonfuls of baking eighths 

powder i or 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

J4 teaspoonful of salt . i teaspoonful of cinnamon 

% cup of butter i tablespoonful of cleaned cur- 
2 tart apples in small pieces rants 

1 egg 

Sift together the flour, sugar, baking powder and 
salt; with the tips of the fingers work in the butter 
and add the pieces of apple. Beat the egg ; add the 
milk and use to mix the dry ingredients to a dough. 
A little more milk may be needed. Spread the dough, 
with a spoon, in a round pan. Press the eighths of 
apple into the dough at equal distances apart, dredge 
the top with the sugar and cinnamon and sprinkle 
over the currants. Bake in a hot oven. Serve, cut 
in triangles, with butter for luncheon or supper. 

BLUEBERRY TEA CAKE OR MUFFINS 

2 cups of sifted pastry flour Yz cup of milk 

4 level teaspoonfuls of baking 2 tablespoonfuls of melted but- 

powder ter 

I cup of sugar i cup of blueberries dredged 
yi teaspoonful of salt with a little flour 

I egg, beaten light 

Sift together the dry ingredients and mix with the 
egg and milk; beat in the butter and the berries. 
Bake in a sheet or in a muffin pan. This recipe may 
be easily halved. Use either the white or the yolk of 
the egg. 



284 Cooking for Two 

CEREAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

Yz cup of ready-to-eat cereal, J4 cup of sweet milk 

as Egg-0-See, Granose 54 cup of sifted flour 

flakes, etc. I level teaspoonful of baking 
^ cup of thick sour cream • powder 

y% teaspoonful of soda White of I egg 

Yolk of I egg, beaten Slice of salt pork, to oil the 
y^ teaspoonful of salt griddle 

Mash and sift the soda before measuring and stir 
it into the cream; pour the cream over the cereal 
and add the yolk, salt, sweet milk and the flour sifted 
with the baking powder. Mix all together thor- 
oughly, then beat in the white of egg, beaten light. 
Drop from the spoon in small cakes upon a hot well- 
oiled griddle. When the cakes are well filled with 
bubbles, they should be brown underneath and ready 
to turn, to brown the other side. A heavy iron frying 
pan answers nicely for a griddle. 



CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

54 cup of corn meal i tablespoonful of sugar 

% cup of fiour I egg, beaten light 

214 level teaspoonfuls of bak- i cup of sweet milk 

ing powder i tablespoonful of melted but- 
J4 teaspoonful of salt ter 



At night scald the milk, pour it over the corn meal, 
mix, cover closely and let stand till morning. Add 
the other ingredients and bake as above. 



Cooking for Two 285 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES 

Soak stale bread, from which the crust has been 
taken, in cold water. When the bread is soft, turn 
it into a piece of cheese cloth and wring out the water. 
Take: 

I cup of softened bread i^ level teaspoonfuls of bak- 

1 egg, beaten light ing powder 

2 level teaspoonfuls of sugar About Y-i cup of milk 

Yi teaspoonful of salt Bake as previously directed 

Yi, cup of pastry flour 

GREEN OR CANNED CORN GRIDDLE CAKES 

I cup of corn pulp i tablespoonful of melted but- 

1 egg, beaten light ter 

Yi teaspoonful of salt Y^ cup of sifted flour 

Yi cup of sweet milk i level teaspoonful of baking 

powder 

These griddle cakes are good with crearjied chicken, 
or with the remnants of stewed chicken (much sauce 
and little chicken). For use with chicken add one- 
fourth a teaspoonful of black pepper and a slice of 
green or red pepper, chopped fine. 

PLAIN GRIDDLE CAKES 

I cup of sifted flour Y2. teaspoonful of bicarbonate 

54 teaspoonful of salt of soda 

Y2 teaspoonful of baking pow- i cup of thick, sour milk 

der I or 2 tablespoonfuls of melted 

butter 

Sift together the flour, salt and baking powder, 
stir the soda into the sour milk and use to mix the 



286 Cooking for Two 

dry Ingredients to a batter; mix in the butter and 
bake as usual. This recipe will make about eight 
cakes. A cup of sweet milk and a level teaspoonful 
of baking powder may be substituted for the sour 
milk and soda. 



CHAPTER XVII 

FLOUR MIXTURES CONTINUED: BREAD AND OTHER 
YEAST MIXTURES 

THE INGREDIENTS FOR BREAD MAKING 

The ingredients required for making yeast bread 
are : flour, yeast, salt and liquid. Sugar is sometimes 
used. 

PROPORTIONS OF THE INGREDIENTS 

The quantity of liquid used determines the size of 
the finished loaf. One cup of liquid with one-fourth 
a cup of liquid yeast (or compressed or dry yeast 
diluted with one-fourth a cup of liquid) will make 
one loaf of bread of a size to bake In what Is known 
as a " brick-loaf pan " ; or it will make about one 
and three-fourths pounds of bread dough. The quan- 
tity of flour used, together with the manipulation of 
the Ingredients, has much to do with the texture of 
the bread. For a firm, fine-grained loaf from three 
to four and more measures of flour to one of liquid 
are needed. For bread of more open texture from 
two and one-half to three measures of flour to one 
of liquid will suffice. Take half a teaspoonful of 
salt for each loaf of bread. A tablespoonful of butter 



288 Cooking for Two 

or other shortening to each cup of liquid will make the 
bread more tender. The quantity of yeast to be used 
will depend upon the time given to the process and 
the temperature at which the dough is kept. For 
bread mixed at night, to be baked in the morning, 
one-third a cake of compressed yeast will be required 
for each pint of liquid. A larger proportion, accord- 
ingly, of yeast, as one-fourth a cake is necessary when 
but one loaf is made. 



YEAST 

Floating everywhere around us in the air are micro- 
scopic organisms that more nearly resemble plant than 
animal life. To certain of these organisms the name 
yeast is applied. These organisms, in a suitable en- 
vironment, feed on sweet and nitrogenous bodies, or 
substances, and grow and multiply very rapidly. 
Chemical change (fermentation) is the result of this 
growth. The conditions essential to the growth of 
these minute plant organisms are warmth, moisture, 
air and something sweet and nitrogenous to feed upon. 
All these conditions may be secured when the plants 
are mixed in moistened flour and left In a temperature 
between 75° to 95° F. As the plants feed upon 
the sweet substances in the flour a rearrangement of 
the molecules of flour takes place, the sugar In com- 
position is broken up and alcohol and carbon dioxide 
are formed. The carbon dioxide lightens the dough. 

In any variety of yeast used we have a collection 



Cooking for Two 289 

of yeast plants massed together in such a manner that 
the life of the plants may be preserved for a time. 

Dry, home-made and compressed yeast, all will 
give good results, but as compressed yeast can now be 
purchased almost everywhere, the recipes will be 
written for this form of yeast. In using home-made 
yeast allow half a cup to each pint of liquid to be used 
in making bread. Compressed yeast may be kept for 
several days or a week ; dry yeast for a much longer 
time, but eventually the plants will die. 

EFFECT OF HEAT AND COLD ON YEAST PLANTS 

In working with yeast mixtures we must keep in 
mind that we are dealing with plant life and treat the 
mixtures accordingly. If you pour boiling water over 
a sprouting seed or a young plant, you would not 
expect it to continue to grow. Yeast plants are of 
the same nature, and if you pour boiling water or 
scalding hot milk over a yeast cake to soften it, you 
need not expect the plants to grow and multiply and 
thus lighten the mixture into which you stir them. 
When the properly treated plants have done their 
work and you have no longer use for them, then the 
heat of the oven is needed to drive off the alcohol 
and carbon dioxide and to set the glutinous cell walls, 
to keep the dough light. 

Yeast plants bear cold much better than heat; life 
is kept in a dormant state at about 30° F. Thus 
yeast cakes may be kept in good condition some days 
in a refrigerator. In a refrigerator bread and rolls 



290 Cooking for Two 

about ready for the oven may be kept in that condi- 
tion some hours or over night, and be ready for baking 
at any moment. 

In practice, when set into the refrigerator, bread 
should not be quite as light as rolls or bread in indi- 
vidual portions, for some time must elapse before the 
cold penetrates entirely through the loaf, and during 
this time the loaf will be growing lighter or more 
porous. 

THE KIND OF FLOUR FOR BREAD MAKING 
A bread flour is one that takes up a large quantity 
of liquid; a pastry flour, one that takes up but little 
liquid. Then less in quantity of bread flour than of 
pastry flour would be needed with one cup of liquid, 
the measure for a loaf of bread. With a little expe- 
rience one may easily learn to distinguish these flours. 
Bread flour is granular and goes through the sieve 
easily. Pastry flour is more solid, is oily and keeps 
its shape when pressed in the hand. As to variety, 
rye, graham, whole wheat (brown in color) and corn 
flour, as also rye and oat meal, may be used in bread, 
but for the best results white flour should be combined 
with these. The proportion of white flour may be 
varied from time to time, but it should never be less 
than one-fourth of the full amount taken. 

UTENSILS FOR BREAD MAKING 

A knife is the proper utensil for mixing dough. An 
earthen bowl is easily cleaned, and for evident reasons 



Cooking for Two 291 

is to be desired when mixing is to be done with a 
knife. A close-fitting tin cover, with three or four 
tiny holes in the top, through which gases may escape, 
with a brick-loaf tin for baking, complete the list of 
necessary utensils. For cutting biscuit and Parker 
House rolls a round cutter with sharp edge is desir- 
able, but the cover of a baking powder box, in which 
a few holes have been made with a nail and a hammer, 
will answer the purpose. Many rolls are shaped with 
the hands. That measuring cups and spoons are 
needful ought to be a foregone conclusion, understood 
by the time one essays her first loaf of bread. 

MIXING THE DOUGH 

In making bread with compressed yeast it Is cus- 
tomary to add all the flour to the liquid, that is, the 
mixing of the bread Is completed at once. In making 
biscuit or rolls, in which shortening, sugar, etc., are 
used, a " sponge " is first made, and when fermenta- 
tion is assured, the shortening, sugar and rest of the 
flour are added and the mixture Is again set to rise. 
Thus bread dough rises twice, once after mixing and 
again after it Is set in the baking pan, while biscuit 
dough rises three and sometimes four times. The 
repetition of the fermenting process affects the flavor 
of the finished product, and thus gives an opportunity 
to diversify the flavor of yeast mixtures. This fact 
should receive due attention, for bread Is a very Im- 
portant staple In our food supply. 

In the recipes two varieties of " sponge " will be 



292 Cooking for Two 

noted. As salt, sugar and fat retard the growth of 
the yeast plants, none of these are added until the 
" sponge " is light. Sometimes we take all the liquid 
that is to be used in making the bread or rolls, and 
into this stir and beat the softened yeast and enough 
flour to make a batter. Cover the batter and let it 
stand until puffy and well filled with bubbles. As 
there is only a small quantity of flour for the plants 
to feed upon, the sponge is soon ready for use. After 
the rest of the flour has been added, the mixture will 
soon double in bulk, which is the sign that a dough 
is ready to be cut down and made ready for the oven. 
Another way of making a " sponge " is to soften the 
yeast in the quantity of water required (one-fourth 
a cup for one loaf of bread) , and into this stir flour 
to make a stiff dough; knead this, then set it into 
the warm liquid of which the bread is to be made; 
when the little ball of dough floats on the liquid, a 
light and puffy " sponge," add the rest of the ingredi- 
ents and mix the whole to a dough. 

KNEADING THE DOUGH 

Learn to knead dough without pushing the fingers 
into It or scattering flour, etc., over the table and floor. 
Keep the crust that forms on the surface of the dough, 
while It is in motion, intact. Keep the dough moving, 
bring It forward, by turning It at the back with the 
tips of the fingers, press down upon it with the hand 
just above the wrist, push it back, then repeat ; bring 
forward, press down and push back, occasionally turn- 



Cooking for Two 293 

ing halfway round, until the surface is filled with tiny 
blisters and the mass is round and smooth. Then re- 
turn to the bowl, cover closely and set aside out of 
all drafts, until the mass has doubled in bulk. 

SHAPING BREAD DOUGH' 

Divide the dough made with one cup of milk into 
two pieces ; knead each, one at a time, into a smooth, 
round ball ; take up in the hands, and with the fingers 
work out the creases on the under side as much as 
possible. The perfect loaf shows no creases when 
baked. Set the balls of dough, side by side, in a 
buttered pan, cover with a cloth and when nearly 
doubled in bulk the dough is ready to bake. The 
dough may be shaped in one oval piece, but the slices 
will be of more uniform size, if it be shaped in two 
pieces. 

SHAPING BISCUIT-AND-ROLL DOUGH 

When round biscuit are desired, the dough may be 
carefully turned from the bowl, upside down, upon a 
board lightly floured. With the rolling pin press the 
dough into a sheet half or three-fourths an inch 
thick, then cut it into rounds. Set these in buttered 
pans, close together or some distance apart, according 
as a soft or crusty exterior is desired. If the rounds 
are set close together, lightly brush the edges that will 
come in contact with a brush dipped in melted butter, 
that the biscuit may be easily separated after baking. 
Or, pieces weighing about two ounces each may be 



294 Cooking for Two 

pulled from the dough ; knead these Into round balls 
and set them into the buttered pans as before. The 
first way is employed, when Parker House rolls are to 
be made, the second, when salad, lady fingers and 
other fancy-shaped rolls are to be shaped. 

BAKING BREAD AND ROLLS 

Bread to be baked in individual portions requires 
a hotter oven than full-sized loaves. The general 
directions are the same for both bread and biscuit. 
Divide the time of baking into quarters ; in the first 
quarter the dough should spring, or grow light, a 
little, and should color in spots and cease to rise. By 
the end of the second quarter the bread should be of 
a delicate brown ; during the next quarter the baking 
is practically finished; the heat should be lowered 
during the last quarter. Loaves of bread of the size 
indicated should bake in about one hour, biscuits and 
rolls in about half an hour. 

GLAZING BREAD AND ROLLS 

If a crisp crust is desired, brush over the surface 
of the bread or rolls, near the close of baking, with 
white of egg, slightly beaten. If a soft crust is de- 
sired, use a cooked paste made of two teaspoonfuls 
of cornstarch diluted with cold water and cooked ten 
minutes with a cup of boiling water. The applica- 
tions of egg or starch may be repeated several times. 
For buns, German coffee cake and the like use the 



Cooking for Two 295 

paste and dredge with sugar, or sugar and cinnamon, 
after each application of paste. 



STORING BREAD 

Cool the bread when taken from the oven on a wire 
rack. When perfectly cold — after several hours — 
set aside in a stone jar with a cover. If cut slices are 
kept .in the jar with the loaf, do not toss them from 
the bread tray into the jar, lay them in carefully, to 
avoid crumbs. Wash, scald and air the jar once a 
week in cold weather, two or three times a week in 
summer. 



ONE LOAF OF WHITE BREAD 

(Mixed at night) 

I cup of liquid (milk or water % cake of compressed yeast 

or part of each) With J^ cup of liquid 

I tablespoonful of shortening About 4 cups of white bread 
I tablespoonful of sugar flour 

i/^ teaspoonful of salt 

If milk be used, scald it, then let cool to a luke- 
warm temperature. Let boil and cool the water. 
Add the butter, salt and sugar to the hot liquid. Mix 
the piece of yeast cake with the quantity of liquid 
designated. Add this to the other liquid ingredients, 
when all are at the proper temperature. Then stir 
in about four cups of white flour. When all the ingre- 
dients are thoroughly mixed together and the sides 
of the bowl are free from dough, turn the mass onto 



296 Cooking for Two 

a board lightly dredged with flour; knead until the 
dough is elastic and tiny white blisters are seen on 
the surface, then return to the bowl, cover closely, 
to avoid the formation of a crust, and let stand out 
of a draft until morning. The temperature for the 
first two or three hours should be about 70° F. 
After this time, fermentation (growth and reproduc- 
tion of the yeast plants) being well established, the 
temperature may be lowered to 40" or 50° F. with- 
out disturbance to the. process. In the morning the 
dough should have " doubled in bulk." If so, re- 
peatedly cut through and turn it over with a knife, 
to let out the gas. The dough may be covered again 
and left until it is again doubled in bulk, or it may be 
shaped into a loaf at once. 



ONE LOAF OF WHITE BREAD 

(Mixed in the morning) 

I cup of liquid milk or i cake of compressed yeast 

water, or part of each mixed with J^ cup of 

I tablespoonful of shortening liquid 

Vi teaspoonful of salt About 4 cups of flour 
I tablespoonful of sugar 



ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD 

Follow one of the preceding recipes, using white 
and entire wheat flour, two cups of each, or one cup 
of white and three of entire wheat. 




One LoAb- of Bread and oe Rolls made with One Yeast Cake. 
Page 207. 




Graham Bread made without Kneading. - — Fage ppp. 




One Loaf of Bread and Parker House Rolls, Baked. — Page 297. 




Bread Sticks tied with Yellow Kiuhun. — Page ^^uo. 




Lady Finger Rolls. — Page 




Preparing the Sponge for Kaiser Rolls. — Page ^o^. 



Cooking for Two 297 

NOISETTE BREAD 

I cake of compressed yeast i cup of noisette or filbert 
J4 cup of lukewarm water meats 

I cup of scalded-and-cooled Y-i cup of entire wheat flour 

milk White flour as needed for 

1 tablespoonful of shortening dough 

2 tablespoonfuls of molasses 

Prepare as ordinary bread, adding the nut meats, 
whole, to the liquid. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

Sponge 2 cups of bread flour 

I cup of milk, scalded and When sponge is light add 

cooled to lukewarm tem- yi teaspoonful of salt 

perature i tablespoonful of sugar 

I cake of compressed yeast % cup of melted shortening 

54 cup of scalded-and-cooled i^ to 2 cups of bread flour 
milk 

Soften the yeast in the fourth cup of milk; add 
to the cup of milk, stir in the flour with a spoon, then 
beat the mixture until very smooth. Cover it with a 
plate and let stand in a temperature of about 70° F. 
until light and puffy, then add the salt, sugar, short- 
ening and flour and mix to a smooth dough. Turn 
on to a floured board and knead until elastic and the 
surface shows tiny blisters ; cover closely and let stand 
until doubled in bulk. Turn on to a lightly-floured 
board, crust or upper side down, roll into a half-inch 
thick sheet with the rolling pin, cut into rounds, brush 
over one-half of each round with melted butter and 
fold the other half over the buttered half. Set close 



298 Cooking for Two 

together in a buttered pan. When again doubled in 
bulk bake about half an hour; glaze during the last 
of the baking. One-fourth a cake of compressed 
yeast may be used at night for a loaf of bread, and in 
the morning the rest of the cake for these rolls. 

RYE BREAD 

(One loaf) 

1 cup of scalded-and-cooled ^ to i whole cake of com- 

milk pressed yeast 

Yz teaspoonful of salt Ya, cup of lukewarm water 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 2 cups of sifted rye flour 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter About 2 cups of wheat flour 

Knead ten minutes; use white flour in kneading. 
Bake about three-fourths of an hour. 

GLAZED CURRANT BUNS 

I cake of compressed yeast Y2. teaspoonful of salt 

Yi, cup of scalded-and-cooled 1 egg 

milk Y^ cup of cleaned currants 

I cup of scalded-and-cooled About 2 cups of flour 

milk 2 level teaspoonfuls cornstarch 

iJ4 cups of bread flour 54 cup of boiling water 

Ya cup of sugar Granulated sugar 

Y\ cup of melted shortening Cinnamon if desired 

Soften the yeast in the quarter cup of liquid, add to 
the rest of the liquid and beat in the first quantity of 
flour. Beat until the sponge is very smooth, then 
cover and set to rise. When light add the sugar, 
salt, shortening, egg, currants and flour and mix to 
a soft dough. Knead until elastic, cover and set to 



Cooking for Two 299 

rise. When doubled in bulk turn upside down on a 
board, roll into a sheet about half an inch thick and 
cut into rounds. Set these in a baking pan close to- 
gether or a little distance apart, according as to 
whether a soft or crusty exterior is desired. When 
doubled in bulk bake about twenty-five minutes. 
Dilute the cornstarch with a little cold water, pour 
on the boiling water and let simmer ten minutes. 
When the buns are nearly baked, brush over the top 
with the starch and dredge thickly with sugar or sugar 
and cinnamon mixed and return to the oven. Repeat 
the application of paste and sugar if needed. 



GRAHAM BREAD 

yi cake of compressed yeast i teaspoonful of salt 

yi cup of lukewarm water J4 cup of molasses 

iJ4 cups scalded-and-cooled 2^ cups of graham flour 

milk lyi cups of white bread flour 
2 tablespoonfuls of butter 



Soften the yeast cake in the water. Melt the butter 
in the milk, add the salt, molasses, yeast in the water 
and stir in the flour. Mix very thoroughly. The 
dough is not firm enough to knead. Cover and let 
stand overnight. In the morning cut the dough 
through and through with a knife, turning it over 
and over ; meanwhile, turn It into two buttered bread 
pans. Make smooth with a knife, and let stand to 
become nearly doubled in bulk. Bake about one hour. 



300 Cooking for Two 

DARK COLORED GRAHAM BREAD 
Use the recipe given above, increasing the quantity 
of molasses to half a cup. Cut down the quantity of 
scalded milk to one cup. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BISCUIT 

% cake of compressed yeast ^ teaspoonful of salt 

(to mix at night) % cup of melted shortening 

I cake of compressed yeast J4 cup of molasses 

(to mix in the morning) ij^ cups sifted entire wheat 

Yz cup lukewarm water flour 

54 cup of scalded milk ^ cup of white bread flour 

Soften the yeast in the water, add the liquid ingre- 
dients, then stir in the flour; cut through the dough 
again and again, to mix very thoroughly. The dough 
is too soft to knead. Cover and set aside, to become 
light, as usual. Melt a little shortening, dip the 
fingers Into it, pull off bits of the dough (about two 
ounces or one- fourth a cup) and shape them, one by 
one, into rounds. If the fingers are kept well-but- 
tered, the dough will not stick to them In the least. 
Dispose the rounds close together in buttered baking 
pans. Let become very light, bake about fifty min- 
utes. Glaze with starch or starch and sugar. 

ZWIEBACK 

I cake of compressed yeast less) 

% cup of lukewarm water yi teaspoonful of salt 

I cup of scalded milk (cooled) % cup of sugar (or less) 

I egg and yolk of another Flour for a soft dough 

J4 cup of melted butter (or i white of egg for glazing 



Cooking for Two 301 

Soften the yeast cake in the water, add flour and 
mix to a dough of a consistency to knead ; knead the 
little ball of dough until elastic, then make two cuts 
across the top, one-fourth an inch deep, one at right 
angles to the other. Have the milk cooled to a luke- 
warm temperature; drop in the little ball of dough 
and let stand until the ball floats on the top of the 
milk, a light porous mass or " sponge," then add the 
other ingredients and mix to a soft dough. Knead 
until smooth and elastic, cover and set aside to double 
in bulk, then shape in the hands into oval rolls. Set 
these close together in a bread pan. When nearly 
doubled in bulk, bake in an oven hotter than for 
bread. When nearly baked brush the top with beaten 
white of egg and return to the oven to dry off. When 
baked and cold, cut in half inch slices and dry in a 
moderately heated oven ; when well dried out increase 
the heat and let the slices color a little. 

SQUASH BISCUIT 

Yi cake of compressed yeast % cup of brown sugar 

1/2 cup of lukewarm water ^ teaspoonful of salt 

54 cup of scalded milk % cup of melted butter 

y2 cup of cooked squash About 3 cups of bread flour 

Soften the yeast in the water, add the other ingre- 
dients and mix to a soft dough. Knead nearly ten 
minutes, using no more flour than is necessary. Cover 
and let stand over night. In the morning the mixture 
should have doubled in bulk. Turn upside down on 
a floured board, then pat and roll into a sheet nearly 



302 Cooking for Two 

an inch thick. Dip a cutter in flour and cut into 
rounds. Set these close together in a baking pan, 
first brushing the surfaces that will come in contact 
with melted butter. When very light (double in 
bulk) bake about half an hour. Glaze with starch 
and sugar just before removing from the oven. 

ONE LOAF OF BREAD AND A SHEET OF COFFEE 
CAKE MADE WITH ONE YEAST CAKE 

ONE LOAF OF BREAD 

ys cake of compressed yeast other shortening 

J4 cup of lukewarm water yi teaspoonful of salt 

I cup of scalded milk i tablespoonful of sugar 

I tablespoonful of butter or About 4 cups of flour 

Mix the bread at night in the usual manner. Let 
the bowl of dough stand in a temperature of about 
68° F. about two hours; if after that. time the tem- 
perature falls to 50° or even 40° F., no harm will be 
done. In the morning the dough should be about 
twice its original size. Cut it in halves, knead these 
into rounds and set them side by side in a " brick 
loaf " bread pan. When the pan is rather more than 
three-fourths full, bake one hour. 

SHEET OF COFFEE CAKE 

% cake of compressed yeast i egg 

14 cup of lukewarm water About three cups of flour 

I cup of scalded milk Cornstarch paste 

% cup of butter or other short- i dozen blanched almonds 

ening 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

54 cup of sugar i teaspoonful of cinnamon 
54 teaspoonful of salt 



Cooking for Two 303 

Melt the shortening in the milk, add the sugar and 
salt, and when lukewarm the yeast, mixed with the 
lukewarm water and the egg, and stir in the flour. 
Enough flour should be added to make a thick batter. 
The mixture should be almost stiff enough to knead. 
Cut through and turn it over and over with a knife, 
then cover closely and set aside with the bread dough. 
In the morning the mixture should be doubled in bulk. 
Cut through and through it, with a knife, and turn 
it over and over. Spread it smoothly in a buttered 
pan (about lo by 5 inches) and when light (but not 
quite doubled in bulk) bake about half an hour. 
Make a cooked paste with a teaspoonful of cornstarch 
and half a cup of boiling water; spread the top of 
the cake with the paste, putting it on generously; 
sprinkle with the almonds, cut in thin slices, and 
dredge with the sugar, mixed with the cinnamon, and 
return to the oven grate, to melt the sugar and brown 
the almonds. With care this may be reheated. 

RYE MEAL BISCUIT 

I cup of milk, scalded and i]^ cups of sifted bread flour 

cooled yi cup (scant measure) of 

^ or a whole cake of com- melted shortening 

pressed yeast, according as J4 cup of molasses 

to time of mixing 5/2 teaspoonful of salt 

yi cup of scalded-and-cooled i^ cups of sifted rye meal 
milk 

Make a sponge of the milk, yeast and bread flour. 
When light add the other ingredients and beat thor- 



304 Cooking for Two 

oughly for some minutes. When light, with buttered 
fingers, shape into about fifteen balls ; set these close 
together in a buttered pan ; when light and fluffy bake 
about twenty-five minutes. Glaze with cornstarch 
paste before removing from the oven. 

KAISER SEMMELN 

For sponge 2 cups of boiled water 

I cake of compressed yeast i teaspoonful of salt 

% cup of lukewarm water Between 6 and 7 cups of fiour 

About 54 cup of flour White of i egg or less 

Soften the yeast in the lukewarm water, mix thor- 
oughly, then stir in the flour; knead the little ball of 
dough until it is smooth and elastic. Make a deep 
cut across the dough in both directions (see illustra- 
tion page 297 ) . Have the boiled water cooled to a 
lukewarm temperature and into this put the ball of 
dough. It will sink to the bottom of the dish, but will 
gradually rise as it becomes light. In about fifteen 
minutes it will float upon the water, a light, puffy 
" sponge." Into this water and sponge stir the salt 
and between six and seven cups of flour. Knead or 
pound the dough about twenty minutes. Let rise in 
a temperature of about 70° F., until the mass is 
doubled in bulk. Divide into pieces weighing about 
three ounces each (there should be about fourteen 
pieces). Shape these into balls. When all are 
shaped, with a sharp knife cut down into each, to 
make five divisions. Set the balls into buttered tins, 
some distance apart, brush over the tops generously 



Cooking for Two 305 

with melted butter, and set to bake at once in a hot 
oven. Bake twenty or twenty-five minutes. When 
nearly baked, brush over with the beaten white of an 
egg, and return to the oven to finish baking. Bake 
the biscuit as soon as they are cut and brushed with 
butter. Only by this means can the shape and fine 
texture of this form of bread be secured. This recipe 
is said, by those who have eaten the bread in Vienna, 
to give a near approach to this justly famous Vienna 
bread. The Hungarian wheat used in Vienna makes 
a difference in flavor, which cannot be exactly dupli- 
cated in this country. 

LADY -FINGER ROLLS 

For Sponge Yolks of 2 eggs 

J4 cup of scalded-and-cooled Yz teaspoonful of salt 

milk 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of melted 
I cake of compressed yeast butter 

J4 cup of scalded-and-cooled i tablespoonful of sugar 

milk About 2 cups of bread flour 

About 15^ cups of bread flour White of I egg for glazing 
When sponge is light, add 

Prepare the sponge in the usual manner, beating it 
for some minutes. When light and puffy add the 
other ingredients and knead fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Cover and set aside to double in bulk. Divide the 
risen dough into pieces of two ounces each (about 
half a cup of dough weighs two ounces). Knead 
these into balls and dispose on a board dredged lightly 
with flour; cover closely with a board or pan, and 
leave them to become light. Roll the balls on the 



306 Cooking for Two 

board under the fingers, to make long rolls pointed 
at the ends. Using more pressure on the dough at 
the ends than in the middle will give the desired 
shape. Set the rolls on a buttered sheet, some distance 
apart. When light, with a pair of scissors make three 
transverse cuts in the top of each roll. Bake about 
twenty minutes. When nearly baked, brush over with 
white of egg, and return to the oven to dry the egg. 

BREAD STICKS 

I cup of scalded-and-cooled J^ tablespoonful of sugar 

milk Yi teaspoonful of salt 

J4 to I whole cake of com- i tablespoonful of melted but- 
pressed yeast ter 

54 cup of lukewarm water I white of egg, beaten light 

About xy-i cups of bread flour Flour for soft dough 

Make a " sponge " with the first four ingredients 
and when light add the rest of the materials. Knead 
until elastic. Cover and let rise until the bulk is 
doubled. Pull off small pieces of dough and knead 
into balls ; cover on a floured board ; when light roll 
under the hands, on the board, into pencil shapes of 
a length to fit a bread stick pan. Bake when light. 
Brush over with slightly beaten white of egg and 
return to the oven to set the glaze. 

TOAST 

Cut stale bread in slices of uniform thickness (scant 
half inch), set on a toaster some distance from the 
source of heat, turn occasionally to dry out the mois- 



Cooking for Two 307 

ture, then set nearer the heat and color first on one 
side and then on the other. If moist toast is desired, 
dip the edges of the toast in boiling, salted water, set 
on a plate and drop on to it bits of butter. For cream 
toast, dip the slices in cream sauce, then set onto a 
plate. 

SANDWICHES 

Cut the bread in uniform slices, less thick than for 
toast. Trim off the crusts, if desired, then spread 
with butter or with such preparation as is desired, 
nearly to the edge of the bread on all sides. Press 
two pieces together and serve as soon as convenient. 
If the sandwiches are to stand, cover closely with an 
earthen bowl. 

OLIVE SANDWICHES 

Chop a dozen olives; spread bread prepared for 
sandwiches with mayonnaise dressing or butter and 
then with the chopped olives. Press together in pairs. 
If desired a leaf of lettuce or a branch or two of cress 
may be set between the two parts of the sandwich. 



BACON SANDWICHES 

If convenient the bacon should be fresh cooked. 
Set the slices while hot between the buttered bread, 
prepared as usual. Press together and wrap singly in 
waxed paper. 



308 Cooking for Two 

NOISETTE SANDWICHES 

Prepare " noisette " bread for sandwiches; spread 
with butter and with orange marmalade and press 
together in pairs. 

CHEESE AND HERRING SANDWICHES 

1 Cream cheese 2 Herring Fillets 

2 teaspoonfuls of Beef Ex- Brown or white bread 

tract 

Work the cheese and beef extract to a smooth paste. 
Any herring may be used, but those put up in oil are 
preferable. Such herring are usually choice and ten- 
der. Cut the fillets into tiny pieces. Spread the 
bread with the cheese mixture, sprinkle on the bits of 
herring and press together in pairs. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

FLOUR MIXTURES CONTINUED : PASTRY AND PIES 

Men, as a rule, are fond of pastry, especially when 
it takes the form of a pie. Thus a young housekeeper 
— at least after a time — will be desirous of knowing 
how to make a pie. Pastry is made of flour, fat, salt 
and just enough water to hold the ingredients to- 
gether in rolling out. Fat makes pastry tender, water 
toughens it; thus fat rather than water should pre- 
dominate in the mixture. Pastry flour, which takes 
up but a small quantity of water, should always be 
used in this branch of cookery. 

For pufF-paste the weight in butter equals that of 
the flour called for, but for ordinary paste fat equal 
in weight to half the weight of the flour will make 
good pastry. Lard gives a softer crust than does 
butter, cottolene or suet ; but butter is thought to pro- 
duce the best tasting pastry. Butter, particularly in 
winter, is not very pliable, and, in the end, time is 
saved, if the butter be washed in cold water before it 
is added to the flour. Pastry is lightened by the ex- 
pansion of the air enclosed during the making. A 
little baking powder, one-fourth a teaspoonful to a 
cup of flour, insures the lightness that an inexperienced 
cook sometimes fails to secure. 



310 Cooking for Two 

WHY PASTRY IS THOUGHT UNHEALTHFUL 

No one of the ingredients in pastry is unwholesome, 
and fat is absolutely necessary to perfect nutrition; 
but fat with other food-principles in an artificial com- 
bination has often proved unhygienic. To be prop- 
erly digested, starch must be mixed with the digestive 
fluids of the mouth, but these fluids have no effect 
upon fat and, unless the mastication be very much 
prolonged, the starch surrounded by fat will pass on 
unchanged to the stomach. Then, if pastry be made, 
let it be tender, friable and well cooked ; and let it be 
masticated thoroughly. 

PASTRY FOR ONE PIE 

1^4 cups of sifted pastry flour 14 teaspoonful of baking pow- 

(S ounces) der, if desired 

% teaspoonful of salt (gener- Yz cup (2 to 3 ounces) of 

ous measure) shortening, and cold water 

Sift together the flour, salt and baking powder; 
with a knife or the tips of the fingers work the short- 
ening into the flour mixture, then adding cold water, 
a few drops at a time, with a knife stir the mixture to 
a paste. Add no more water than is needed to form 
the ingredients into a stiff paste. This paste is now 
ready for use. 

FLAKY PASTRY FOR ONE PIE 

1% cups of sifted pastry flour % teaspoonful of salt (gener- 
(5 ounces) ous measure) 



Cooking for Two 311 

J4 teaspoonful of baking pow- J4 cup of shortening (lard or 

der cottolene) 

Cold water 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

Scald an earthen bowl and a wooden spoon, then 
chill them thoroughly; add cold water to the bowl 
and in it wash the butter, pressing it with the spoon ; 
when the butter may be gathered into a pliable, waxy 
mass, remove to a cloth, pat a little, to remove the 
water, then set aside in a cool place until the paste 
is ready. Use the lard with the other ingredients in 
making the paste as given above. 

Turn the paste onto a board lightly dredged with 
flour ; turn it in the flour, then pat it lightly with the 
rolling pin and roll into a square sheet; with a knife 
cut off bits of the prepared butter and press them 
lightly on the paste until all is used. Set the pieces 
of butter on the paste so as to distribute them evenly 
over the paste. Fold the paste to make three layers ; 
pat with the rolling pin gently, then roll into a sheet; 
roll up the paste like a jelly roll, and it is ready to use ; 
or it may be covered closely (to keep the outside from 
drying) and set aside in a cool place until the next 
day. Often pastry may be handled more easily after 
it has been left in a cool place some hours or over 
night. 

APPLE PIE 

Take a little more than one-half of the pastry, made 
by either of the above recipes. If the first be selected, 
turn it over on the board dredged with flour, knead 
slightly to get into a compact mass, then roll into a 



312 Cooking for Two 

round to fit the plate; lift the paste to the plate 
(agate preferred) and trim so as to leave one-fourth 
an inch of paste beyond the plate. Pare five or six 
tart apples and slice them into the plate. Use enough 
apples to round the slices up weU. Mix one-fourth 
a teaspoonful of salt with two-thirds a cup of sugar 
and sprinkle over the apple; put on one teaspoonful 
or more of butter, in little bits, here and there, add 
a grating of nutmeg, then roll out the rest of the 
crust in the same manner as the first and cut six or 
eight half-inch slits in the center to form a design; 
leave the paste on the board while the edge of the 
pastry on the plate is brushed over with cold water, 
then put about three tablespoonfuls of cold water over 
the apple. Lift the pastry from the board and set it 
over the apple, letting it lie loosely, as it will shrink 
in baking. Press the edge of the upper piece of paste 
upon the edge of the lower and trim if needed to 
make them even. Then brush the two edges together 
with cold water and bake about half an hour. The 
oven should not be too hot or the pastry will brown 
before it is cooked. After the pie has been in the 
oven six or seven minutes, the paste should have con- 
tracted and risen somewhat. 

ENGLISH APPLE PIE 

Butter a shallow agate dish. Select one that is 
deeper than a pie plate. Slice apples into the dish to 
fill It. Sprinkle on about a cup of sugar, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a grating of nutmeg or lemon 



Cooking for Two 313 

rind. Put on two teaspoonfuls of butter in bits, here 
and there, add two or three tablespoonfuls cold water, 
then roll out half of the quantity of paste indicated 
In the above recipes. Cut slits In the paste and spread 
It over the apple, pressing It against the dish on the 
edge. Bake about forty minutes. Serve with or with- 
out cream. 

APPLE PIE WITH MERINGUE 

Bake the crust as for " Cranberry Tart," page 319. 
Set the cooked pastry in a suitable plate and fill two- 
thirds full with sifted apple sauce, reduced by cook- 
ing till quite thick. Cover with meringue and let 
bake eight or ten minutes In a very moderate oven. 

Meringue 

Whites of 2 eggs, beaten dry sugar 

4 tablespoonfuls of granulated yi teaspoonful of vanilla 

Beat two tablespoonfuls of the sugar into the 
whites, beaten dry, then fold in the rest of the sugar 
and the vanilla. After the meringue is spread, sift 
granulated sugar over It. The oven must be moder- 
ate. The meringue should not color until after eight 
minutes. 

BLUEBERRY PIE 

Line the plate as for an apple pie; mix one pint 
of berries, two tablespoonfuls of flour, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt and three-fourths a cup of sugar and 
turn into the plate, put on two teaspoonfuls of butter 



314 Cooking for Two 

in little bits, then cover with the second crust and 
finish as the apple pie with two crusts. All pies are 
less liable to " run out " in the oven, if the paste be 
put on loosely. Allow plenty of paste, that the plate 
may be covered when the paste shrinks. 

RHUBARB PIE 

2 cups of sliced rhubarb 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

I egg Vz teaspoonful of salt 

V/i, cups of sugar 2 teaspoonfuls of butter 

Beat the egg; beat in the sugar, flour and salt and 
turn into the plate lined with pastry; add the butter 
in bits, here and there, cover and finish as an ordinary 
apple pie. Rhubarb canned in cold water may be 
used instead of fresh rhubarb. 

RHUBARB PIE 

(Red Lion Inn, Stockbridge) 

I cup of sliced rhubarb J4 teaspoonful of salt 

I egg 2 teaspoonfuls of butter 

1 cup of sugar A grating of nutmeg 

2 common crackers, rolled fine 

Beat the egg, add the sugar, salt, rolled crackers 
and rhubarb. Turn into the plate lined with crust. 
Put in the bits of butter. Cut the pastry rolled for 
the upper crust into bands three-fourths an inch wide, 
and brush over the edge of the under crust with cold 
water; lay the bands across the filling parallel, one 
to another, then lay bands across the filling at right 
angles to these, lattice fashion. Cut all at the edge 




Peach Tarts. — Page ug. 




Applt: Takts. — Piii^c _^j[. 




Apple Pie w i'nr ."NfERiNfiUE. — Pctge 313. 




T'lKFM'TLi: Tarts. — rtii',' ,vy. 




(I'STMiu I'iF. - - /■„,„ 




Stkau i;i KiiY TvKis. St. Ihixuui. ^j\le. ~ Ptigc jju. 



Cooking for Two 315 

of the under paste and press them upon it. Bake 
about half an hour. 



RHUBARB PIE, No. 3 

Peel the rhubarb and cut it in slices; cover with 
boiling water, set over the fire and bring quickly 
to the boiling point. As soon as the rhubarb changes 
color and before it loses its shape, drain and press 
out all of the liquid. Over the rhubarb sprinkle a 
cup of sugar, sifted with three tablespoonfuls of flour 
and one-fourth a teaspoonful of salt. Add a table- 
spoonful of lemon juice or a grating of orange rind; 
mix and turn into a plate lined with pastry; finish 
with bands of pastry. Bake about half an hour. 



MOCK MINCE PIE 

2 common crackers, rolled fine Yz cup of raisins, seeded and 

Yi, cup of sugar chopped 

J4 cup of molasses ^ cup of butter 

J4 cup of liquid from sweet J4 teaspoonful of salt 

pickle jar or i egg, well beaten 
J4 cup of lemon juice 

Mix all the ingredients together and turn into a 
plate lined with pastry; cover with paste and bake 
as an apple' pie. Spices as cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg 
and mace may be added if desired. A teaspoonful 
of mixed spice will suflice. 



316 Cooking for Two 

LEMON PIE 

3 tablespoonfuls of cornstarch Yz teaspoonful of salt 

4 tablespoonfuls of cold water i cup of boiling water 

1 cup of sugar Juice of I lemon 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter Grated rind, if desired 

Stir the cornstarch and salt with the cold water; 
pour on the boiling water and stir and cook until the 
mixture boils ; add the sugar, butter and lemon juice, 
also grated rind, if it is to be used. Let the mixture 
stand while a plate is lined and the upper crust is 
rolled out and made ready. Turn the mixture into 
the lined plate, brush the edge of the paste with cold 
water, set the upper paste in place, finish and bake as 
an apple pie. Lemon rind when eaten often produces 
flatulency ; in such case, omit it. 



MINCE MEAT FOR ONE PIE 

J4 cup chopped beef (roast or ^ cup of syrup from sweet 

steak) pickle jar 

I cup of chopped apple y^ teaspoonful salt 

J4 cup of chopped suet or J^ teaspoonful mace 

3 tablespoonfuls of butter Grating of nutmeg 

% cup of sugar i^ teaspoonful of cloves 

Vi cup of molasses J4 teaspoonful of cinnamon 

Grated rind and juice of i J^ cup of raisins (Sultanas 

lemon or preferred) 

Mix all together, turn into a plate lined with pas- 
try and cover as an apple pie. Bake nearly an hour. 
Less spice may be used, or two or three tablespoon- 
fuls of " left over " jelly may be added. 



Cooking for Two 317 

SOUR CREAM PIE 

I cup of chopped apple J^ cup of sour milk 

I cup of stoned raisins J4 teaspoonful, each, of cinna- 
I cup of sugar mon, nutmeg and cloves 

Yi cup of sour cream yi teaspoonful of salt 

Peel the apples before chopping and chop the 
raisins; add the other ingredients, mix thoroughly 
and bake between two layers of pastry. 

CUSTARD PIE 

We have not seen plates of a depth suitable for 
custard and other similar pies in small size, thus give 
the proportions for a pie of ordinary size. Take 
rather more than half of the crust required for one 
pie; roll it into a round sheet that will come three- 
fourths of an inch beyond the edge of the plate ; lay 
it upon the plate evenly, then fold the edge over to 
meet the plate all around the plate. Flute this double 
fold of paste with the thumb and finger and press 
each " fluting " down upon the edge of the plate. In 
putting the crust upon the plate lift it here and there, 
where needed, to let out the air below. This should 
be done with all pies, but is particularly necessary 
with custard pies. Also, with the thumb and fore- 
finger held together, press the paste upon the bottom 
of the plate throughout the whole extent and, also, 
around the edge of the plate close to the bottom, that 
no large bubble of air may be left to expand and dis- 
place the custard while it is baking. Turn the filling 
into the prepared crust and let bake in a moderate 



318 Cooking for Two 

oven nearly an hour. An electric oven is by far the 
best oven in which to bake a custard or squash pie. 
For the filling beat four eggs ; add half a teaspoonful 
of salt and three-fourths a cup of sugar and beat 
again, then gradually beat In three cups of milk. 
When the pie feels firm to the touch at the center, 
remove from the oven and grate over it a little nut- 
meg. Chill before serving. 



SQUASH PIE 

% cup of butter i egg and yolk of another 

^ cup of sugar i cup of cooked-and-sifted 

Yz teaspoonful of salt squash 

yi teaspoonful of ground mace i cup of rich milk 

Cream the butter and beat in half the sugar ; beat 
the egg and beat in the other half of the sugar, then 
beat the two mixtures together ; add the other ingre- 
dients and mix again. Bake in a plate lined as for a 
custard pie. 



SQUASH PIE, DELAWARE STYLE 

I cup of cooked-and-sifted i egg, well beaten 

squash ^ cup of cream 

Yz teaspoonful of salt ?4 cup of breakfast cocoa made 
Y teaspoonful of cinnamon with milk 

J4 cup of sugar 

Mix the ingredients and bake until firm in the center 
in a plate lined with pastry as for a custard pie. 



Cooking for Two 319 

OPEN CRANBERRY PIE OR CRANBERRY TART 

Spread the round of paste over an inverted pie 
plate (agate or tin is preferable) , prick the paste with 
a fork, here and there, over the sides as well as the 
top. Bake to a dark straw color. Remove the paste 
from the plate, wash the plate and set the pastry in- 
side. Turn a cooked filling into the pastry shell and 
set figures, cut from pastry and baked, above the fill- 
ing. 

COOKED CRANBERRY FILLING 
Mix together, thoroughly, two level tablespoonfuls 
of cornstarch, half a teaspoonful of salt, scant meas- 
ure, and one cup of sugar; pour on one cup of boiling 
water and stir until boiling, then add one-fourth a cup 
of molasses, a teaspoonful of butter and two cups of 
cranberries, chopped fine. Mix together thoroughly, 
and let simmer ten or fifteen minutes. Apple, peach 
or pineapple marmalade make good fillings for an 
open pie. Heat the marmalade and turn at once into 
the shell. 

CANNED PINEAPPLE FILLING 

To a pint can of grated pineapple add half a cup 
of sugar and the juice of half a lemon; let simmer 
until thick, then use as above. 

PEACH TARTS 

Cover inverted individual tins with pastry (it will 
take but a small piece for two tins, a little " left over " 



320 Cooking for Two 

will answer). Set the tins on a pie tin to keep the 
edge of the paste from the oven. Prick the paste all 
over with a fork and let bake. It will take about 
eight minutes. Remove the pastry from the tins and 
set it onto individual plates. Put a canned peach in 
each piece of pastry. Pipe whipped cream above and 
sprinkle the cream with fine-chopped pistachio nuts. 
Or fill the hollow spaces in the center and around the 
peach with jelly or marmalade and put a blanched 
almond in the center of the peach. Serve with the 
syrup from the peaches as a sauce. Halves of apple, 
cooked In syrup (sugar and water, half a cup of each, 
cooked six minutes), may replace the peaches. 

STRAWBERRY TARTS, ST. HONORE STYLE 

Bake the pastry over Inverted tins as for " peach 
tarts. '^ Remove from the tin and half fill with St. 
Honore cream, then finish filling with strawberries 
cut In halves and mixed with sugar. 

ST. HONORE CREAM 

Yz cup of milk Yi teaspoonful of salt 

% cup of sugar i egg 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour 

Scald the milk over hot water; sift the sugar, salt 
and flour together and stir Into the hot milk ; let cook 
ten minutes, then add the egg, beaten very light. To 
add the egg dilute It with a little of the hot mixture, 
then stir Into the rest of the mixture. 



Cooking for Two 321 

APPLE TARTS 

Make the pastry by the recipe, " Pastry for One 
Pie," and roll this into a rectangular sheet. Have 
ready one-fourth a cup of creamed butter. Spread 
this over the pastry or put it on, here and there, in 
little bits. Then roll up the pastry as a jelly roll. Pat 
and roll this into a sheet, and cut out into rounds. 
With the small end of a pastry tube cut out three 
small rounds from half the rounds of pastry. Have 
ready some stewed-and-sifted apples, cooked dry, sea- 
soned with sugar, a little salt and nutmeg, and chilled. 
Put a teaspoonful of this sauce in the center of the 
plain rounds, and brush the edge of one after another 
with cold water ; put a round with holes in it over the 
apple sauce, and press the edges together closely. 
Brush the edges with cold water and the top with 
slightly beaten white of egg. Dredge lightly with 
granulated sugar, and bake until slightly colored. 



CHAPTER XIX 

FLOUR MIXTURES CONTINUED: CAKE 

To do anything well It must be done often. With 
nothing in the line of cooking is this more true than 
with cake-making, and especially that part of the 
process that has to do with the baking. 

But cake is a luxury and not a very hygienic one, 
as it is often another example of concealed fat. 
Thus, being an article for occasional rather than daily 
consumption, the opportunity for practice is infre- 
quent, and it were well for the young housekeeper 
to confine her efforts to a few varieties. 

SOME OF THE QUALITIES OF A GOOD CAKE 

Good cake is light, velvety in texture, and fine 
rather than coarse grained. It does not have a 
sugary, brittle edge. It is of uniform height, and is 
baked to a uniform color — the shade depending on 
the variety of cake — on the bottom, top and sides. 

HOW CAKES ARE LIGHTENED 

Cakes are made light in the same manner as other 
batters and doughs, i. e. ( i ) by the expansion of air 
beaten Into some of the ingredients, as eggs, butter, 



Cooking for Two 323 

butter and sugar, or into the finished mixture; (2) 
by carbon dioxide set free during the growth of yeast 
plants, or from a carbonate by an acid; (3) by the 
expansion of the air or gas, or both, when heated; 
(4) by the hardening (by heat) of the cell-walls 
during cooking. 

INGREDIENTS USED IN CAKE -MAKING 

Pastry flour, on account of its whiteness and 
smoothness and the quality of its gluten content, is 
better adapted to cake-making than are the so-called 
bread flours. Powdered sugar gives a dry cake and, 
now that fine granulated sugar can be bought any- 
where, it is rarely used. It is not necessary that the 
butter be made into handsomely stamped cakes as 
for the table, but in other respects the choicer the 
butter the better the cake. Eggs a day old are in 
the best state for beating. Four eggs should fill the 
measuring cup and weigh half a pound, but often 
five will be required to secure this weight and fill 
the cup. Often eggs are the only liquid used in 
cake. Water can always be substituted for sweet 
milk that is called for in a recipe, but there will be 
a difference in the cake; often the cake is more tender 
and delicate, but it does not look quite as spongy or 
white. The grated yellow rind of an orange or 
lemon that contains the rich, characteristic oil of the 
fruit gives a most delectable flavor to a cake, but the 
juice of these fruits contains little flavor, and this, 
as also the volatile flavor of extract of vanilla, are 



324 Cooking for Two 

lost during the cooking. Lemon juice, being an acid, 
if used in a cake made with baking powder or cream 
of tartar and soda, will materially change the pro- 
portions of the leavening ingredients and spoil the 
cake. When used, soda to correct the acidity must 
also be used. Caramel gives a pleasing flavor to 
cake and one that is retained during cooking. In 
frosted cakes flavor may be added to the frosting 
just before it is spread upon the cake without danger 
of loss, and this will suffice to flavor the whole cake. 

PROPORTIONS OF INGREDIENTS 

Usually a cake batter is of such consistency that it 
needs to be spread in the pan. Sometimes the heat 
of the oven will cause it to sink to a level before cook- 
ing begins, but as a rule the batter should be spread 
with a spoon and drawn away from the center of the 
pan towards the edges. Exact proportions of ingre- 
dients that will answer for all cakes can not be given. 
In general, twice as much flour, by measure, as of 
liquid is a safe rule. Eggs are considered a liquid, 
but half a cup of milk could not replace half a cup 
of eggs. Butter equal to one-third the volume of 
flour is not often exceeded. From half to two-thirds 
the volume of flour is the usual proportion of sugar. 

MANNER OF MIXING A BUTTER CAKE 

Before beginning to combine the ingredients have 
everything ready, that the mixing may be done 
quickly. The oven of a coal or wood range must 



Cooking for Two 325 

be put into a condition that will insure the proper 
heat when the cake is ready. If the butter be firm 
and cold, rinse the mixing bowl with warm water, 
wipe it dry and put into it the desired quantity of 
butter; break the butter in pieces and let stand to 
soften while other things are being made ready. 
Butter the pans in which butter cakes are to be baked, 
or, better, line the pans with paper and butter the 
paper thoroughly. Pans for sponge cake need neither 
lining nor buttering. To line a pan, turn it upside 
down ; select thin wrapping paper, spread the paper 
over the bottom of the pan with the edge of the paper 
on the edge of the pan, then press down upon the 
paper over the opposite edge to crease the paper; 
fold and cut in the crease ; put the paper in the pan 
with the ends hanging over a little. The pan is now 
ready to butter. Break the eggs, the yolks into one 
bowl, the whites into another, and set the whites aside 
in a cool place. Measure or weigh out the sugar and 
sifted flour, also the liquid and the leavening agents. 
Sift together, three or four times, the flour and 
baking powder, or cream of tartar and soda, also 
salt and spices when used. Have fruit and nuts ready 
to add to the mixture. Now with a perforated 
wooden spoon work the butter to a cream, then 
gradually beat in the sugar, keeping the mass light 
and fluffy. In cold weather warm the liquid a little, 
to avoid curdling the butter and sugar. If yolks are 
to be used, beat them till light and thick, then add 
to the butter and sugar ; rinse the bowl with the liquid 



326 Cooking for Two 

and add it to the mixture, alternately, with the flour, 
etc. Lastly add the whites, beaten stiff. Fruit or 
nuts may now be added, or they may be added to the 
creamed butter and sugar before the yolks of the 
eggs. This is the usual method of mixing a cake in 
which butter is used, but there are many variations 
from the rule. 

METHOD OF MIXING A SPONGE CAKE 

Beat the yolks till thick and light-colored; gradu- 
ally beat in the sugar; add flavoring (grated rind 
of an orange or lemon) and lemon juice, if used, then 
beat the whites till dry ; fold half of the whites Into 
the yolks and sugar; fold in half of the flour, the 
other half of the whites and the other half of the 
flour. In a sponge cake proper the lightness depends 
entirely upon the air beaten Into the eggs, and great 
care must be exercised to handle the mixture In such 
a manner that none of the air cells be broken down. 
Stirring must be avoided. The cake Is mixed en- 
tirely by beating and folding, and when ready for 
the pan will be a delicate, fluffy mass. The long 
beating of the eggs necessary to Insure a light cake 
renders a sponge cake dry; this may be remedied to 
some extent by using a greater number of yolks than 
of whites. Cheaper sponge cakes may be made by 
cutting down the number of eggs and using milk or 
water as a part of the liquid; with such cakes a 
leavening agent must be employed. 



Cooking for Two 327 

BAKING CAKE 

In baking cake the size of the cake has much to do 
with the required temperature of the oven ; the larger 
the cake, the longer is the time necessary to heat the 
mixture and expand the mass. The cake must not 
crust over (by heat) until it has risen to the proper 
height. A cake, in layers, will bake in from fifteen 
to twenty minutes ; in a sheet, in about thirty minutes ; 
in a loaf, from forty minutes to two hours, according 
to its thickness. The oven should be at a temperature 
to raise the cake to its full height in one-fourth the 
time required for baking. During this time, the cake 
should not brown. During the second quarter of the 
time in the oven, the cake should brown in spots. 
During the third quarter, the browning should be 
completed. The heat should be gradually reduced, 
during the last half of the time in the oven. When 
baked, butter cakes will separate from the sides of the 
pan. This will be seen in the last quarter, and during 
this time the cake will also settle a little in the pan. 
Let stand a few seconds after removal from the oven, 
then carefully turn from the pan to a wire cake 
cooler. Often a cake may be lifted from the pan by 
the paper hanging from the ends of the tin. Sponge 
cakes, baked in unbuttered tins, may be inverted 
and cooled, upside down, in a draft of air. When 
a cake is thus suspended, the air cells are elongated 
until dry and firm ; and if the cake was light when 
taken from the oven, lightness is assured there- 
after. The oven door may be opened at will 



328 Cooking for Two 

during the baking, if it be closed at once and 
gently. 

ANGEL OR WHITE SPONGE CAKE 

Whites of 4 eggs Va cup of sugar 

J4 teaspoonful of cream of Yi teaspoonful of vanilla 
tartar Vz cup of sifted pastry flour 

Add the cream of tartar to the whites of eggs, beat 
dry, and fold in the other Ingredients. Bake in tube 
pan or sheet about 25 minutes. 

SPONGE CAKE 

2 whole eggs Yi cup of flour 

I yolk of egg Grated rind of Y2 lemon 

Y2 cup of granulated sugar i tablespoonful of lemon juice 

Prepare according to the directions given above for 
mixing sponge cake. Bake from twenty to thirty 
minutes. Baked in the regular sponge-cake pan with 
feet for cooling, this cake will not be very thick. It 
may be baked in a new bread pan and then inverted 
to cool by setting something under the ends of the 
pan. In serving do not cut sponge cake, but break 
it apart with two silver forks. 

BISCUITS D'EPERNAY 

The whites of 3 eggs i tablespoonful of fine-chopped 

The yolks of 4 eggs almonds 

Y2 cup of granulated sugar Y2 cup of sifted pastry flour 

Grated rind of Y2 lemon 2 tablespoonfuls of melted but- 

ter 



Cooking for Two 329 

Prepare as sponge cake, adding the almonds to the 
yolks and sugar and the melted butter last of all. 
Bake in small, fancy tins, well buttered, or in a sponge 
cake pan. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE 

1% cups of sifted flour ^ teaspoonful of salt 

2 level teaspoonfuls of baking 2 large eggs 

powder Thick sweet cream 

I cup of granulated sugar Grated rind of i lemon or 

orange 

Sift together, three times, the flour, baking powder, 
sugar and salt. Break the eggs into a half pint cup, 
fill the cup with cream, add these with the grated 
rind to the first mixture and beat thoroughly. Bake 
in a thick sheet about forty minutes. 



QUICK SPONGE CAKE 

3 eggs 2 level teaspoonfuls of baking 

1% cups of granulated sugar powder 

J4 cup of milk or water H teaspoonful of salt 

2 cups of sifted flour 

Beat the eggs, without separating the whites and 
yolks, and beat the sugar in gradually ; add the milk 
and the flour, sifted two or three times with the 
baking powder and salt. Bake in a sheet about 
twenty-five minutes. Half of this recipe may be made 
by using one whole egg and the yolk of another with 
half of each of the other ingredients. 



330 Cooking for Two 

WHITE LAYER CAKE 

Y-i cup of butter 3 level teaspoonfuls of baking 

1 cup of sugar powder 

H cup of milk Whites of 3 eggs, beaten dry 

2 cups of sifted flour 

Mix in the usual manner. See " Manner of Mix- 
ing a Butter Cake." Bake in two layers about twenty 
minutes. Put together with boiled chocolate frosting. 
Decorate with halves of English walnuts if desired. 
Or, bake in a sheet about thirty-five minutes and when 
cold cover with Caramel Nut Frosting. 

WHITE NUT CAKE 

Yi cup of butter powder 

154 cups of granulated sugar J^ teaspoonful salt 

J4 cup of water The whites of 4 eggs 

2J4 cups of flour I cup of walnut meats broken 

2 level teaspoonfuls of baking in pieces 

Mix in the usual manner; bake in a sheet. Frost 
as desired. 

BURNT SUGAR CAKE 

Yi cup of butter Whites of 2 eggs 

1 cup of sugar Frosting for Burnt Sugar Cake : 
Yolks of 3 eggs 54 cup of sugar 

2 cups of sifted flour Yi cup of water 

2 level teaspoonfuls of baking 2 tablespoonfuls of caramel 

powder syrup 

I cup of cold water The white of i egg 

3 teaspoonfuls of caramel syrup i teaspoonful of vanilla extract 

Make both cake and frosting in the usual manner. 



Cooking for Two 331 

NUT AND RAISIN CAKE 

Yz cup of butter 2 level teaspoonfuls of baking 
I cup of sugar powder 

3 eggs, unbeaten J^ cup of milk 

1 cup of nut meats Grated rind of i lemon 

Yi cup of raisins J^ teaspoonful of cinnamon 

2 cups of sifted flour J^ teaspoonful of mace 

Add the eggs, one at a time, to the creamed butter 
and sugar and beat in thoroughly. Put the nuts and 
raisins through a food chopper, then rub these 
through the flour sifted with the baking powder and 
spices. Bake in a tube pan or in a sheet. Cover with 
caramel nut frosting. 



MOIST CHOCOLATE CAKE 

Yi cup of butter ij4 teaspoonfuls of baking 

Yi cup of sugar powder 

Yolks of 2 eggs Y2 teaspoonful cinnamon 

Y2 cup of sugar Y2 .teaspoonful mace or nutmeg 

Y2 cup of hot mashed potato % teaspoonful clove 

I ounce of chocolate, melted Y2 cup of walnut meats, 

J4 cup sweet milk chopped fine 

I cup of sifted flour Whites of 2 eggs, beaten dry 

Cream the butter and beat in first half cup of sugar ; 
beat the yolks of eggs, beat in the second half cup of 
sugar and beat the two mixtures together; add the 
potato and chocolate and finish in the usual manner. 
Bake in a sheet or in layers. Finish with any frost- 
ing desired. 



332 Cooking for Two 

ROXBURY cAkES 

Yolks of 2 eggs y-i teaspoonful of cloves 

y-i cup of sugar Grating of nutmeg 

J4 cup of butter, softened i teaspoonful of soda 

yz cup of molasses Whites of 2 eggs 

y-i cup of sour milk }4 cup of seeded raisins 

ly^ cups of sifted flour ^ cup of walnut meats, broken 

I teaspoonful of cinnamon in pieces 

Prepare in the usual manner and bake in small tins ; 
frost with boiled icing. The recipe makes 18 cakes. 
The recipe may be easily divided, but, as the cakes 
improve on keeping in an earthen jar, it may not be 
too large. 

LITTLE GOLD CAKES 

y^ cup of butter i level teaspoonful of baking 

y^ cup of sugar powder 

Yolks of 4 eggs I teaspoonful of orange ex- 

J4 cup of milk tract or grated rind of 

Yt, cup of sifted flour i orange 

Bake in small fancy tins and cover with boiled 
frosting. 

PLAIN GINGER CAKES 

H cup of molasses 2 cups of flour 

I teaspoonful of soda J^ teaspoonful of salt 

54 cup of butter y^ tablespoonful of ginger 

J4 cup of boiling water y^ teaspoonful of cinnamon 

Stir the soda into the molasses ; melt the butter in 
the boiling water; turn all into a bowl and stir in 
the flour, sifted with the salt and spices; add more 
flour if needed, but keep the dough as soft as can be 




LO'.F OF T^TSCriT D'Ln-KN.W. f'u-c' ^.J._V 'Y i'..\ PRJ-T/KLS. Pclg 




RoxBi'RV C'aki:s, 11 iscltts n'llpKRXAv, Strawberry Presfr\i-:s Bftween. 
['ages ,-;_'^, S!S-- 




W'lii n: (.'ak/:, (.'t"r in IJiamonds. — Page sS'->- 




Plain Ginger Cakes. —Pa^^ 33^. 




Tiny Crfam (. akes. —Page 339. 




Shaping Tea Pretzels. ^ T^a^.? 333. 



Cooking for Two 333 

handled. Roll a little of the dough at a time to a 
sheet about three-eighths of an inch thick and cut 
into rounds. Press two pecan nut meats into the top 
of each, and dredge with granulated sugar. Bake in 
a moderate oven. The recipe will make about twenty 
cakes. 

TEA PRETZELS 

Beat one-third a cup of butter to a cream ; gradu- 
ally beat in one-fourth a cup of sugar, then one egg, 
beaten without separating the white and yolk, and one 
cup and a half of pastry flour. Cover the dough and 
let it remain in a cool place for one hour. Break off 
small pieces of the dough, knead to a smooth mass, 
then roll under the hands to the shape of a bread 
stick, about as thick as a round lead pencil ; bring the 
ends towards the middle of the dough, pressing them 
onto it about an inch apart, forming two rings, then 
set on a baking tin, one ring overlapping the other. 
Brush with a beaten egg, diluted with a little milk, 
and press blanched-and-sliced almonds onto the 
dough. Bake in a moderate oven. 

WAFER JUMBLES 

Yi cup of butter Grated yellow rind of i lemon 
Yi cup of sugar (granulated) or 

I egg beaten light (not sepa- i teaspoonful of vanilla extract 

rated) i^ cups of flour 

Cream the butter ; gradually beat in the sugar, the 
egg, flavoring and flour. Drop with a teaspoon onto 
a buttered baking sheet or, preferably, turn the mix- 



334 Cooking for Two 

ture into a pastry bag with star tube (half inch) at- 
tached and dispose on the baking sheets in rings or 
figures the shape of the letter S ; dredge with granu- 
lated sugar and bake in a quick oven. These, contain- 
ing no liquid but egg, are rather rich and are for 
occasional not daily use. 

PEANUT MACAROONS 

The whites of 3 eggs i teaspoonful of flour 

J4 teaspoonful of cream of i pint of peanuts (chopped to 

tartar a powder) 

I cup of granulated sugar 

Beat the whites of the eggs until foamy; add the 
cream of tartar and beat until dry, then gradually 
beat in half of the sugar and continue beating until 
the whole is very light ; then cut and fold in the other 
half of the sugar, the flour and the crushed nuts. 
Drop by teaspoonfuls onto a tin, lined with a buttered 
paper, making smooth rounds. Sift granulated sugar 
on the top of each and bake on the floor of a quick 
oven from five to seven minutes. Meats from Eng- 
lish walnuts or other nuts may take the place of the 
peanuts. A cherry or bit of firm fruit jelly pressed 
into the center of the top of each round is an im- 
provement. 

ALMOND CRISPS 

Yi cup of butter i teaspoonful of vanilla extract 

1 cup of powdered sugar J4 teaspoonful of almond ex- 

2 eggs tract 

2 tablespoonfuls of milk Blanched almonds, cut in 

2 cups of flour halves 



Cooking for Two 335 

Cream the butter and gradually beat in the sugar. 
Reserve the white of one egg to glaze the cakes. 
Beat the yolk of this egg and the other whole egg; 
add to the creamed ingredients with the milk, flour 
and flavoring. More flour may be needed. The 
dough must be stiff enough to hold its shape when 
baked. Take a little of the dough onto a floured 
board, turn it in the flour with a knife, then knead 
slightly and with the rolling pin roll into a thin sheet. 
With a French patty cutter stamp the dough into 
rounds and stamp each round with the same cutter 
again, to divide each into a crescent and an oval 
shaped cake. Set these on buttered baking pans. 
Press upon each three halves of almonds, then brush 
over with the white of egg, reserved for the purpose, 
and sprinkle the whole with granulated sugar. Bake 
in a quick oven to a pale straw color. 



ROLLED OATS, FRUIT - AND - NUT COOKIES 

J/^ -cup of butter ^ cup of raisins 

Yi cup of sugar 54 cup of chopped nuts 

I egg beaten light i cup of rolled oats 

3 tablespoon fuls sweet milk I cup of flour 

}/2 teaspoonful of soda 

Mix in the usual manner. Add more flour if 
needed to make a firm dough. Roll into a thin sheet 
and cut into rounds. Bake in a moderate oven. The 
recipe makes about thirty cookies. 



336 



Cooking for Two 



HONEY DROP COOKIES 



^ cup of butter 

Yi cup of granulated sugar 

I cup of honey 

Beaten yolks of 2 eggs 

Grated rind of i lemon 

3 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice 



The whites of 2 eggs, 

dry 
3 cups of sifted flour 
I teaspoonful of soda 
More flour if needed 



beaten 



Mix in the usual manner. Drop the dough by 
teaspoonfuls onto a buttered baking pan, shape into 
smooth rounds. Bake in a moderate oven. For 
change add half a cup or more of cocoanut. 



CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE 



2 level tablespoonfuls of butter 

y-i cup of sugar 

I egg 

Yi cup of milk 

y^ cup of sifted flour 

154 teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der 

Yi teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 
tract 



Filling for Cream Pie: 

54 an ounce of chocolate 

Ya cup of sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls of boiling 

water 
Yi, cup of double cream 
Yi teaspoonful of vanilla 



Cream the butter; add half the sugar gradually. 
Beat the egg and beat in the other half of the sugar, 
then combine the two mixtures; add the milk and 
the flour sifted with the baking powder and salt. 
Bake in two small tins. Melt the chocolate ; add the 
sugar and water and cook until smooth ; let cool, add 
to the cream with the vanilla and beat until firm. Put 
between and on top of the layers. 



Cooking for Two 337 

ENGLISH TEA CAKES 

lyi cups of flour 1/2 cup of butter 

Yi cup of sugar yi cup of dried currants 

yi teaspoon ful of salt i egg 

2 level teaspoonfuls of baking 2 tablespoonfuls of milk 
powder Granulated sugar 

Sift together the flour, sugar, salt and baking pow- 
der; with the tips of the fingers work in the butter; 
beat the egg, reserving a tablespoonful of the egg to 
glaze the cakes, add the milk to the egg and use to 
mix the dry ingredients to a dough. With the hands 
roll the dough into balls the size of an English wal- 
nut. Set the balls in a buttered pan, some distance 
apart, brush over with the egg, dredge with sugar 
and bake in a quick oven. The recipe makes about 
fifteen cakes. They are good and quickly made. 

• MARSHMALLOW MARGUERITES 
Take any variety of thin, unsweetened cracker, 
spread lightly with butter and set in a baking pan; 
on the center of each cracker dispose a marshmallow, 
with a bit of butter above, — the butter may be 
omitted, — put the pan into a hot oven until the 
marshmallow is softened and browned a little, then 
serve at once. 

ORANGE COOKIES 

yi cup of butter %. cup of orange juice 

I cup of granulated sugar 2 cups or more of flour 

Grated rind of i orange 4 level teaspoonfuls of baking 
I egg, beaten light powder 



338 Cooking for Two 

Mix in the usual manner, but without separating 
the white and yolk of the egg. Roll into a sheet, cut 
into cakes, set into baking pan, dredge with granu- 
lated sugar and bake in a moderate oven. Bake one 
cake, then add more flour if needed. 



DROP COOKIES WITH SOUR CREAM 

Yi cup of butter J4 teaspoonful of sifted soda 

I cup of sugar 2^ cups of sifted flour 

I egg, beaten light zVz level teaspoonfuls of baking 
Yi cup of sour cream powder 

Mix in the usual manner, stirring the soda into the 
cream. Mix the whole together very thoroughly; 
the mixture will be quite stiff. Drop from a spoon 
onto buttered tins, shaping each portion into a smooth 
round. Dredge with granulated sugar. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 



OATMEAL MACAROONS 

I egg, beaten light J4 teaspoonful of salt 

Yi cup of sugar Y2 teaspoonful of vanilla 

Y2 tablespoonful of melted but- 154 cups of rolled oats 
ter 

Beat the sugar into the egg; add the other ingre- 
dients and beat all together thoroughly. Drop from 
a teaspoon onto a buttered baking sheet and shape in 
symmetrical rounds. Bake in a moderate oven. The 
recipe makes about eighteen small cakes. 



Cooking for Two 339 

TINY CREAM CAKES 

% cup, or 2 ounces, of butter Yz cup of sifted flour 
}4 cup of boiling water i egg and i extra yolk 

Set the butter and water over the fire and when 
boiling add the flour and stir and cook until the mix- 
ture separates from the sides of the saucepan. Turn 
into a bowl, break in the whole egg and beat it in 
thoroughly, then beat in the yolk. With a teaspoon 
shape the mixture, on a buttered tin, into rounds 
about an inch and a quarter across. Bake about fif- 
teen minutes, with strongest heat at the bottom. 
When cold make an opening on one side and fill with 
English Cream; dip the top of each in melted fon- 
dant and sprinkle with tiny candies (hundreds and 
thousands). Frosting made of syrup and confec- 
tioner's sugar may replace the fondant. 



ENGLISH CREAM FILLING 

I cup of milk, scalded Yz cup of sugar 

% cup of sifted flour %. teaspoonful of salt 

% cup of milk ^ teaspoonful of vanilla 

I egg or 2 egg yolks, beaten 
well 

Stir the quarter cup of milk into the flour and cook 
in the scalded milk about fifteen minutes, then stir 
in the egg, sugar and salt, beaten together; let cook 
to set the egg; let cool and add the vanilla. 



340 Cooking for Two 

CRULLERS 

I yolk of egg, beaten light i white of egg, beaten dry 

54 cup of granulated sugar % teaspoonful, each, of mace 
I tablespoonful of melted but- and salt 

ter About i cup of flour 

Beat the sugar into the beaten yolk; beat in the 
butter, fold in the white and then beat in the flour 
sifted with the salt and mace. Add more flour if 
needed. The dough must be stiff enough to roll into 
a sheet about one-third an inch thick. Cut into rec- 
tangular pieces (two by three inches), make four 
parallel slits in each equally distant from each other 
and the edges of the dough on all sides. Carefully 
lift up the second and fourth strips, to meet in the 
center, and cook in hot fat to a golden brown. Drain 
and sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

YEAST DOUGHNUTS 

J4 cup of lukewarm water Ys cup of melted butter 

Yi cake of compressed yeast 2 eggs 

A little bread flour 54 cup of sugar 

I teaspoonful of salt Yi teaspoonful of mace or nut- 

I cup of scalded-and-cooled meg 

milk About 4 cups of bread flour 

At about eight o'clock in the evening soften the 
yeast in the lukewarm water, mix thoroughly, then 
stir in flour to make a dough that can be kneaded; 
knead until elastic and cut the little ball of dough 
across the top in both directions, then put it into a 
bowl of tepid water, to stand until it floats on the 



Cooking for Two 341 

water, light and puffy. With a skimmer remove 
" the sponge " to the mixing bowl, add the other 
ingredients and mix to a soft dough. Knead about 
fifteen minutes. Cover and set aside until morning. 
The temperature should not go much below 60° F. 
In the morning turn the light puffy dough upside 
down and roll into a sheet half an inch thick. Cut 
into strips half an inch ( generous ) wide ; twist these 
and bring the ends together. Set to rise, covered, on 
a floured cloth or tin. When light fry in deep fat, 
drain on soft paper and roll in powdered sugar. The 
fat must not be too hot or the cakes will brown before 
they are cooked through. Turn frequently while 
cooking. Cakes made with yeast require longer cook- 
ing than those made with soda, etc. 



CHAPTER XX • 

OTHER SWEET DISHES 



GELATINE, WHIPPED EGG AND WHIPPED CREAM 
MIXTURES 

In the following recipes, unless otherwise specified, 
when cream Is referred to, a cream that will beat 
firm is intended. What is sold as double cream at 
about fifteen cents a half pint should become solid 
after beating a few moments. Thin cream, such as 
is taken from milk in a " separator," may be beaten 
solid by the use of viscogen. One-fourth a teaspoon- 
ful of viscogen is added to each three-fourths a cup 
of cream. Viscogen is easily prepared, and, stored 
In small receptacles from which the air is excluded, 
it will keep in good condition until used. Small glass- 
stoppered bottles are the best receptacles for keeping 
viscogen; fill the bottles full (air darkens the liquid), 
then put the stopper in above a narrow strip of waxed 
paper. Without the paper it Is often difficult to 
remove the stopper. 

The proper texture of many sweet dishes depends 
entirely on the manner In which whipped cream or 



Cooking for Two 343 

white of egg is combined with the other ingredients. 
That a light fluffy texture be retained, the ingredients 
must be folded lightly together. When the whipped 
ingredient is to be added to a gelatine mixture, the 
latter must be evenly chilled, and just on the point 
of " setting," when the combination is made. 

CONCERNING COMMERCIAL GELATINE 
Gelatine is usually put up in two-ounce packages, 
though some few brands are in packages that con- 
tain but one ounce. Two ounces of gelatine will jelly 
two quarts of liquid, scant measure ; half a package, 
or one ounce, jellies one quart of liquid; and one- 
fourth a package, or half an ounce, will jelly one 
pint of liquid. 

HOW TO USE GELATINE 

Gelatine, as it comes in the package, cannot be 
dissolved in a hot liquid; it must first be soaked in 
cold water, until it is completely hydrated, or until 
it will take up no more water. Gelatine will take up 
four times its weight of cold water. Thus two 
ounces or a full package of gelatine must be set to 
soak In eight ounces or a full cup of cold water or 
other liquid. In most of the recipes given for two 
people one-fourth or one-eighth a package of gelatine 
is called for, and one-fourth or one-eighth a cup, 
respectively, of water is needed. If cold milk or 
broth be used, the quantity must be Increased a little. 
When the gelatine mixture is to be added to whipped 



344 Cooking for Two 

mixtures, as in Bavarian creams, parfaits, etc., it 
must be cooled to about the same consistency as the 
mixture to which it is added; otherwise the gelatine 
mixture would settle to the bottom in a firm mass. 
Do not cook gelatine; if it is to be added to a 
" boiled custard " mixture, cook the custard, then 
add the softened gelatine and remove from the fire. 
Molds, in which gelatine mixtures with whipped 
cream or white of egg are to be " set," should be 
lined with narrow strips of tough, waxed paper. By 
this means the unmolding of the dish in perfect shape 
is assured. 

CARAMEL JELLY 

I tablespoonful of granulated J/^ cup of boiling water 

gelatine 2 cups of thin cream 

14 cup of cold water y^ cup of sugar 

Vi cup of sugar cooked to car- % teaspoonful of salt 
amel 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Cook the 
caramel and boiling water to a thick syrup ; add the 
softened gelatine, the sugar, salt and cream and stir 
until the sugar is dissolved, then strain into molds. 



MOLDED RICE 

J4 cup of rice Grated rind of i orange 

I cup of milk I cup of thin cream 

Y2 teaspoonful of salt J4 tablespoonful of gelatine 

Ys cup of sugar 4 tablespoonfuls of cold water 



Cooking for Two 345 

Put a pint or more of cold water over the rice, 
let boil five minutes, then drain, rinse in cold water 
and drain again; add the milk and grated rind and 
let cook in a double boiler until the grains are ten- 
der; add the sugar, salt and cream, and let become 
hot, then add the gelatine, softened in the cold 
water, and stir over ice water until the mixture begins 
to thicken. Turn into a mold. Serve with boiled 
custard, sugar and cream, currant jelly or strawberry 
preserves. 

RICE DAINTY 

y^ cup of cooked rice, every ^ cup of sugar 

grain distinct J4 cup of cream, beaten stiff 

y-i cup of pieces of pineapple 

Mix the rice, sugar and pineapple, fold in the 
cream. Serve in glasses. 



STRAWBERRY-MARSHMALLOW DESSERT 

I cup of strawberries, cut in ^ or ^ cup of double cream 

halves 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

J^ cup of marshmallows, cut Yi teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 
in three or four pieces, tract 

each 

Beat the cream until firm throughout; beat in the 
sugar and vanilla, then fold in the marshmallows 
and nearly all the strawberries. Turn into glass 
cups. Use the remaining berries to garnish the top 
of the cream. 



346 Cooking for Two 

INDIVIDUAL CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

y2 cup of double cream J4 cup of sugar 

I cup of thin cream i teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 

^ level tablespoonful of gran- tract 

ulated gelatine 6 or 8 ladyfingers 
4 tablespoonfuls of cold water 

Line sherbet cups with ladyfingers trimmed to 
come half an inch above the top of the glass. Soften 
the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve by setting 
the dish in hot water; add the sugar, the thin cream 
and the vanilla, and stir until the sugar is dissolved ; 
set into a dish of ice-water and stir until the mixture 
begins to thicken, then fold in the double cream, 
beaten firm. Put a spoonful at the base of each lady- 
finger, in the cups, to hold it firmly in place, then 
fill the cups to the height of the ladyfingers, 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE WITHOUT GELATINE 

54 cup of double cream tract or 

J4 cup of sugar (scant meas- 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry 

ure) Ladyfingers 

I teaspoonful of vanilla ex- Candied cherries 

Beat the cream until firm, then beat in the sugar 
and flavoring. Line the cups with ladyfingers and 
fill with the cream mixture. Decorate with the cher- 
ries. 

RASPBERRY CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Ladyfingers ^ cup of raspberry juice and 

I teaspoonful of granulated pulp 

gelatine Yz cup of sugar 

3 tablespoonfuls of cold water 54 cup of double cream 



Cooking for Two 347 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve 
by setting the dish in boiling water ; add to the rasp- 
berry pulp and juice ( fresh or canned berries pressed 
through a sieve) with the sugar. Set the dish into 
ice-water and stir constantly until the mixture begins 
to thicken; then fold in the cream, beaten firm. 
Turn into cups lined with ladyfingers. 



GRAPE JUICE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

I teaspoonful of granulated White of i egg 

gelatine i tablespoonful of lemon juice 

% cup of grape juice i/< cup of double cream 

J4 cup of sugar Candied violets 

Yi cup of hot grape juice Ladyfingers 

Soften the gelatine in the fourth a cup of grape 
juice and dissolve in the hot juice ; add the sugar and 
lemon juice and let become cold. Beat the white of 
egg dry and gradually beat the grape mixture into 
it. Continue beating until the mixture will hold its 
shape (have the mixture in ice-water meanwhile), 
then turn into the glasses lined with ladyfingers. 
With pastry bag and star tube decorate with the 
cream, beaten firm, and the candied violets. 



ORANGE MARMALADE MOLD 

I tumbler of orange marma- % cup of cold water 

lade I tablespoonful of lemon juice 
J4 cup of boiling water if convenient 

% package of gelatine 



348 Cooking for Two 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve 
in the hot water; add the marmalade and lemon 
juice. Stir occasionally until the mixture begins to 
thicken, then turn into mold. Serve with cream. 
Strawberry and raspberry jam may be used in the 
same way. 

ORANGE MARMALADE BAVARIAN CREAM 

% package of gelatine (scant I cup of orange marmalade 

measure) i tablespoonful of lemon juice 

J4 cup of cold water l cup of double cream 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water and dissolve 
over hot water; add the marmalade and fold in the 
cream, beaten firm. Turn into a mold lined with 
paper. Strawberry preserves may be used in the 
same way. 

GINGER BAVARIAN CREAM 

Stem ginger root, cut in slices % cup of cold water 

or figures i cup of rich milk 

y^ cup of preserved ginger, Yolks of 2 eggs 

chopped and pounded in a Yz cup of sugar 

mortar with ginger syrup i cup of double cream, beaten 

I tablespoonful of granulated firm 

gelatine 

The " stem " ginger root (preserved in earthen 
jars) is the best. Use the slices or figures to dec- 
orate the bottom of the mold. Soak the gelatine 
in the cold water. Beat the yolks, add the sugar 
and cook in the milk, scalded over hot water; add 
the soaked gelatine and the pounded ginger and stir 



Cooking for Two 349 

over ice-water until it begins to set, then fold in the 
cream. 

CARAMEL BAVARIAN CREAM 

J4 box of gelatine Y-i cup of boiling water 

J4 cup of cold water Y^, cup of chopped almonds 

% cup of sugar ij4 cups of double cream 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Cook the 
sugar to caramel; add the boiling water and let 
simmer to a syrup; add the softened gelatine and 
the nuts; set into ice water and stir until beginning 
to set; fold in the cream, beaten firm. When the 
mixture will hold its shape, turn into a mold. For 
a more elaborate dish, line the mold with lady- 
fingers. When unmolded decorate with a cup of 
cream, beaten stiff, and slices of candied cherries. 
Set the cream in place with pastry bag and star tube. 



II 

CUSTARDS AND CUSTARD MIXTURES 

In custard mixtures (egg, milk or other liquid, 
sugar, etc.), as in all egg cookery, the temperature 
at which the cooking is done largely determines the 
character of the finished dish. When the mixture 
is not to be stirred during cooking, set to cook on 
many folds of paper, surround with water at the 
boiling point, and let cook in the oven, or, covered, 
on top of the range. Do not allow the water to boil 



350 Cooking for Two 

during the cooking, as the custard will be spoiled. 
The mixture is cooked when firm in the center. One 
egg to a cup of milk makes a fairly rich custard, 
but the custard should be eaten from the dish In 
which it is cooked. By the use of two eggs, or pref- 
erably one egg and two yolks (on account of tender- 
ness that the fat in the yolks gives) , a custard firm 
enough to be turned from the dish In perfect shape 
is assured. Starchy ingredients, as cornstarch, rice, 
tapioca, bread or cake crumbs, may be used in the 
place of the second egg. Half an ounce of rice or 
tapioca (uncooked), or one whole ounce of cake or 
bread crumbs are needed to each cup of milk. As 
high temperature or time is essential to the proper 
cooking of starchy ingredients, rice, tapioca, corn- 
starch and the like should be cooked before the egg 
is added. When the hot custard mixture or pudding 
is to be turned from the mold, the matter Is simpli- 
fied, if thfe dish be buttered thoroughly and then 
dredged liberally with sugar. A mold lined with 
caramel insures perfect unmolding of the custard or 
pudding and at the same time provides a sauce for 
the dish. A tin mold of good quality Is the best 
in using a caramel lining. Cook the required quan- 
tity of sugar to caramel over a quick fire. At once 
turn the caramel into the mold and with a towel 
held In both hands take up the mold (which will be 
very hot) and turn it round slowly, that the caramel 
may coat the entire Inner surface of the mold. The 
mold may be used at once or at some future time. 




Steamed Custakd. — /'oi^c _-;5i\ 




Charlotte Rl'ssf For; Two. — P^Jge 346. 




Chocolate C[.'Stard with Whipped Cream.— Pg^^ 55J. 




Custard Renversee with Almonds. — Page 354. 




Orange ^Marmalade Bavariose. — Page 348. 




Canned Pear 1\Ieringues. — Page 3f^^. 



Cooking for Two 351 

A soft, or "boiled," custard should always be 
cooked in a double boiler. Whole eggs may be used 
for this form of custard, but as the yolks give the 
best results, the whites are usually reserved for some 
other dish. If the whites are used, beat them dry 
and fold into the mixture after the yolks and sugar 
have been cooked in the milk. Have the milk 
scalded. Beat the yolks, then add the sugar and 
beat again; add a little of the hot milk, mix all to- 
gether thoroughly, then pour into the rest of the hot 
milk. Stir constantly until the mixture coats the 
spoon ; add the whites, If they are to be used, and at 
once strain into a cold dish, to arrest the cooking. 

BOILED CUSTARD NO. i 

V/i cups of scalded milk, hot yi teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 
2 yolks of eggs tract or 

54 cup of sugar Thin yellow rind of yi orange 
J4 teaspoonful of salt or lemon 

Scald the rind in the milk; add vanilla when the 
custard is cold. Serve as a pudding sauce, or with 
blanc mange, caramel jelly, lemon, prune or fig jelly, 
fig whip, delicate souffle, etc. 



BOILED CUSTARD IN CUPS 

iH cups of scalded milk, hot % cup of sugar 

I or 2 teaspoonf uls of corn- J4 teaspoonful of salt 

starch H teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 
% cup of cold milk tract or 

Yolks of 2 eggs Thin rind of orange or lemon 



352 Cooking for Two 

Mix the cornstarch with the cold milk and stir and 
cook in the hot milk until smooth and slightly thick- 
ened. Cover and let cook ten or fifteen minutes. 
Beat the yolks; add the sugar and salt, and beat 
again, then stir into the hot mixture and continue 
stirring until the egg looks " set," then remove from 
the fire; add the vanilla when cold. Cook the fruit 
rind In the milk. 

DELMONICO PUDDING WITH PEACHES OR 
APRICOTS 

Pudding 2 yolks of eggs 

4 to 6 halves of canned apri- J4 teaspoonful of salt 

cots or peaches with a lit- % cup of sugar 
tie fruit syrup Meringue 

J4 cup of cornstarch 2 whites of eggs 

y^ cup of cold milk 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar 

iJ4 cups of scalding hot milk 54 teaspoonful of vanilla ex- 
I teaspoonful of butter tract 

Put the fruit and syrup In a pudding dish;, make 
a thick " boiled custard " of the other ingredients, 
cooking the starch ten or fifteen minutes in the hot 
milk before adding the yolks of egg with the sugar. 
Turn the custard over the fruit. Beat the whites of 
eggs dry; gradually beat in half the sugar, then fold 
In the other half and the extract. Spread the me- 
ringue over the custard and let stand in a moderate 
oven about ten minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

Omit the peaches and meringue from the preced- 
ing recipe. Serve hot, from the double boiler, with 



Cooking for Two 353 

cream and sugar. An ounce of melted chocolate 
may be stirred in before the eggs and sugar. 



STEAMED CUSTARD 

1 egg and i extra yolk % teaspoonful of salt 
3 level tablespoonfuls of sugar i cup of milk 

Beat the eggs, add the sugar and salt and beat 
again; add the milk, mix thoroughly and turn into 
two custard dups ; set in a steamer over boiling water, 
cover and let cook until firm. The water should not 
boil during the cooking. A double boiler may re- 
place the steamer or the cups may be set in a pan of 
water in the oven or on top of the range. Finish 
while hot by grating a little nutmeg over the top 
of the custards. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD, WITH WHIPPED CREAM 

^2 ounce of chocolate i cup of milk 

% cup of sugar 2 eggs 

2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of cold % teaspoonful, each, of salt 

water and cinnamon 

Melt the chocolate over hot water ; add two table- 
spoonfuls of the sugar and the cold water, and stir 
and cook until smooth; add the milk. Beat the 
eggs, add the rest of the sugar, the salt and spice 
and beat again; add the chocolate mixture and turn 
into charlotte russe molds, buttered and dredged 
with sugar. Bake as all custards. When cold turn 
from the molds and fill the open centers with 



354 Cooking for Two 

whipped cream. Other molds may be used and the 
whipped cream be omitted. 



CUSTARD RENVERS^E WITH ALMONDS 

y-i cup of sugar 3 tablespoonfuls (level) of 

14 cup of blanched almonds sugar 

2 whole eggs J4 teaspoonful of salt 

2 yolks of eggs ij4 cups of milk 

Cook the half cup of sugar to caramel; add the 
nuts, cut in slices, cook a moment longer, and use 
to line a charlotte mold. Beat the eggs; add the 
sugar and salt and beat again; add the milk, mix 
thoroughly and turn into the lined mold. Bake in 
the usual manner. See remarks on custard mixtures 
at beginning of chapter. 



PRUNE WHIP, WITH BOILED CUSTARD 

10 prunes 2 whites of eggs 

y^ cup of sugar '54 teaspoonful of salt 

I tablespoonful of lemon juice Boiled Custard No. i 

Wash the prunes, cover with cold water and let 
stand overnight. Cook until tender, then press 
through a sieve. Set to cook in a double boiler with 
the salt, sugar and lemon juice; beat the whites of 
eggs dry. When the prune mixture is hot fold the 
eggs into it; continue to cook and fold until the egg 
is set. Serve hot or cold with custard No. i, which 
should always be served cold. 



Cooking for Two 355 

FIG, PRUNE OR DATE WHIP 

4 figs or Scant J4 cup of sugar 

10 prunes or J4 teaspoonful of salt 

10 dates Boiled Custard No. i, or 

The whites of 3 eggs Cream and sugar 

Cook whichever fruit is used and cut it into tiny 
bits. Beat the whites of eggs dry; gradually beat 
in half of the sugar, then cut and fold in the rest 
of the sugar and the fruit. Bake in a buttered-and- 
sugared dish as any custard. Serve hot with the 
boiled custard (cold) or with cream and sugar. 

CANNED PEAR MERINGUES 

From a thin sheet or slices of sponge cake, cut 
out shapes, rounded at one end and pointed at the 
other, like the shape of half a pear, but larger. 
Upon these dispose halves of cooked pears, from 
which the core has been taken. Fill the core spaces 
with fine-chopped, preserved ginger and pipe me- 
ringue mixture above, to cover the tops of the pieces 
of pear. Dredge both cake and pear with granu- 
lated sugar and set into the oven to cook the me- 
ringue. The dish should stand in the oven eight or 
ten minutes before browning. Serve with the syrup 
from the pears, or with boiled custard. 

MERINGUE FOR PEARS 
Beat the whites of two eggs dry; gradually beat 
in two level tablespoonfuls of sugar, then cut and 
fold in two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 



356 Cooking for Two 

CUSTARD RICE PUDDING 

% cup of rice I egg and i yolk 

I cup of milk yi cup of milk 

yi cup of sugar J4 teaspoonful of mace or nut- 

J4 cup of raisins or currants . meg 

Blanche the rice, then cook till tender in the cup of 
milk; add the fruit, the egg, beaten and mixed with 
the sugar, the spice and half-cup of milk, mix thor- 
oughly and turn into buttered-and-sugared molds. 
Bake as all custards. Serve, turned from the molds, 
with wine, orange or currant jelly sauce. 

WINE SAUCE 

Cook a cup, each, of sugar and water to a thick 
syrup; add one-third a cup of sherry or claret and 
if at hand a teaspoonful of lemon juice. A teaspoon- 
ful of cornstarch mixed with the sugar improves the 
sauce for some tastes. 

ORANGE SAUCE 

Cook a cup, each, of sugar and water with the 
thin yellow rind of an orange to a thick syrup ; strain, 
add one-third a cup of orange juice and one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE 

Cook a cup of currant jelly with a cup of water 
until smooth; add a tablespoonful of lemon juice. 



Cooking for Two 357 

BREAD PUDDING, VIENNOISE 

1 cup of fine soft bread crumbs i whole egg and yolk of an- 
J^ cup of dried currants other 

}^ teaspoonful of salt J4 cup of sugar 

Yi teaspoonful of cinnamon J^ cup of sugar cooked to car- 

V/i cups of milk amel 

J4 cup of boiling water 

Pour the boiling water over the caramel and let 
boil to a syrup; add the sugar, the milk and the 
eggs, beaten light. Mix the crumbs, currants, salt 
and cinnamon and combine the two mixtures. Turn 
into buttered-and-sugared molds. Let cook in a 
dish of water as a custard. Serve hot, turned from 
the molds, with Sabayon or hard sauce. 

ORANGE SABAYON SAUCE 
Beat one whole egg and one yolk; gradually beat 
in one-third a cup of sugar. Set the dish over hot 
water, add the grated rind of an orange, one-third 
a cup of orange juice and one tablespoonful of lemon 
juice. Continue beating while the sauce thickens. 
When thick as a boiled custard, remove to a dish 
of cold water, to stop the cooking, and serve at once. 

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter V/2 ounces of melted chocolate 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour J4 cup of sugar 

J4 teaspoonful of salt 2 eggs 

y^ cup of milk 

Melt the butter and in it cook the flour and salt; 
add the milk and stir and cook until smooth and 



358 Cooking for Two 

thick; add the chocolate, the sugar and the yolks 

of eggs, beaten light; lastly fold in the whites of the 

eggs, beaten dry. Bake as a custard. Serve hot, 

the instant it is done, with whipped cream sweetened 

and flavored with vanilla, or with frothy or Sabayon 

sauce. 

FROTHY SAUCE 

Yi cup of butter Ys cup of boiling water 

% cup of sugar V/i tablespoonfuls of wine or 

White of egg, beaten dry A teaspoonful of vanilla 

Cream the butter, beat in the sugar and fold in 
the white of egg; add the boiling water and flavor- 
ing. Mix and serve at once. 



Ill 

A FEW SIMPLE HOT PUDDINGS 

SCALLOPED RHUBARB WITH MERINGUE 

Peel the rhubarb and cut into inch lengths. In 
a buttered dish put a layer of thin slices of sponge 
cake, and over this a layer of the rhubarb; sprinkle 
with sugar, a grating of yellow orange rind and a few 
grains of salt; continue the layers until the dish is 
filled. For half a pound of rhubarb use about three- 
fourths a cup of sugar. Cover the dish and let bake 
about half an hour. Beat the whites of two eggs 
dry; gradually beat in two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
then fold in two tablespoonfuls of sugar and spread 



Cooking for Two 359 

over the pudding. Let bake about twelve minutes 
in a very moderate oven. 



BLUEBERRY BETTY 

Remove the crust from slices of stale bread. Put 
the bread, spread with butter, into a pudding-dish in 
layers, alternating with blueberries. Sprinkle the 
blueberries with sugar, a little salt, and, if desired, 
a grating of nutmeg. Have generous layers of blue- 
berries. Squeeze over the whole the juice of half 
a lemon, or add two tablespoonfuls of water. Cover 
the dish, and let bake until the berries are tender. 
Then remove the cover, to brown the top. Serve 
with cream and sugar. 

STEAMED GRAHAM PUDDING 

I cup of graham or of entire i egg 

wheat flour Yi cup of molasses 

Yi cup of white flour J^ cup of milk 

Yi teaspoonful of salt 4 tablespoonfuls of melted 

I teaspoonful of soda butter 

I teaspoonful of cinnamon, J4 cup of fruit 
mace and cloves, mixed 

Sift together the dry ingredients. Beat the egg; 
add the milk, molasses and butter and stir into the 
dry ingredients ; add the fruit. Use for fruit, raisins, 
currants, citron, candied peel, chopped figs, dates or 
prunes, one or a combination of two or more. 
Steam two and one half hours. Serve with hard 
sauce. 



360 Cooking for Two 

STEAMED ORANGE PUDDING 

^ cup of scalded milk Grated rind and juice of half 
yi cup of grated bread crumbs an orange 

1 tablespoonful of butter i tablespoonful of lemon juice 

2 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped 
% cup of sugar almonds 

Pour the milk over the crumbs and butter and let 
stand an hour. Beat the eggs; add the sugar and 
beat again ; add fruit juice and almonds and mix all 
together. Steam one hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

STEAMED PRUNE PUDDING 

^3 cup of Stale bread crumbs ys cup of sugar 

J4 cup of flour I egg, beaten- light 

I level teaspoonful of baking ]/3 cup of prune puree 

powder ^ teaspoonful of salt 

J^ cup of fine-chopped suet yi cup of milk 

Mix together the crumbs, flour and baking pow- 
der, suet and sugar. To the beaten egg add the 
puree, salt and milk. Stir the liquid into the dry in- 
gredients. Steam two hours in a buttered, tight- 
closed mold. An empty baking powder box makes 
a good mold. Leave plenty of room for the pud- 
ding to swell. Serve with hard or liquid sauce. 



STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING, SULTANA 
SAUCE 

Pudding ]/2 teaspoonful of cinnamon 

I cup of sifted pastry flour % teaspoonful of salt 

lyi teaspoonfuls of baking i egg 

powder y^ cup of sugar 



Cooking for Two 361 

3 tablespoonfuls of melted Sauce 

butter 14 cup of sultana raisins 

J4 cup of milk I cup of boiling water 

2 ounces of chocolate yi cup of sugar 

Flavor to taste 

Sift together the flour, baking powder, cinnamon 
and salt. Beat the yolk of egg light, the white till 
dry; beat the sugar into the yolk of egg; add the 
butter and milk and stir into the first mixture; add 
the chocolate melted over hot water and, lastly, the 
white of egg. Steam in two or three cups about 
twenty-five minutes. Cook the raisins tender in the 
water; add the sugar, let boil five minutes, then flavor 
and use. 



BAKED APPLE DUMPLING 

Tart apples 54 teaspoonful of salt 

Salt 3 tablespoonfuls of butter 

3 tablespoonfuls of cold water i egg (this may be omitted) 

i]/i cups of pastry flour }i cup of milk (scant meas- 
3 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- ure) 

der 

Butter an agate baking dish; into it slice tart 
apples to fill to the top ; add a dash of salt and the 
cold water. Make a soft biscuit dough of the other 
ingredients and spread it over the apples. Bake in 
a quick oven about twenty-five minutes. Invert the 
dish, so as to have the apples on the top. Serve hot 
with butter and sugar or syrup. 



362 Cooking for Two 

CANNED PINEAPPLE TOAST 

From slices of stale sponge cake cut out as many 
rounds as there are slices of pineapple to be used. 
Have the rounds of cake of the same size as the 
rounds of pineapple or a little larger. Butter the 
slices of cake, dredge with sugar and set them into 
the oven to brown and glaze. Cook the syrup from 
the pineapple with about half a cup of sugar and 
a tablespoonful of lemon juice; add the slices of 
pineapple, let boil once, then keep hot until ready 
to serve. Set a round of pineapple above each round 
of cake, pour over the sauce, and serve at once. 



IV 

FROZEN DESSERTS 

For freezing desserts at home, the freezing mix- 
ture is prepared with ice (or snow) and salt. Often 
ice may be had by setting a pan of water out of doors 
overnight. With snow a little water must be used 
to start the melting process. 

In a family of two, when a frozen dish is prepared, 
especially in cold weather, it is well to make this the 
sweet dish for both luncheon and dinner, otherwise 
this form of dessert should be put in the class of 
dishes reserved for occasional rather than for fre- 
quent use. 

The ice to be used in a freezer must be made 
nearly as fine as the salt which is to be used with it; 



Cooking for Two 363 

but for packing a frozen mixture, larger pieces that 
will not dissolve quickly are preferable. For the 
same reason very little salt should be mixed with the 
ice used in packing a frozen dessert that is simply 
to be kept in this condition. 

In many freezers ices may be frozen quickly and 
at the same time be light and fluffy in texture, but 
in general the texture of the article is better if it be 
not frozen too quickly. One measure of salt to three 
of ice is a fair proportion for mixtures to be frozen 
in the ordinary freezer. The process will take from 
five minutes to half an hour, the time depending 
upon the kind of ingredients used and the make of 
freezer. Parfaits, being left to freeze without any 
attention, require to be packed for three or four 
hours. Use equal measures of ice and salt. Parfaits 
are at their best when frozen just enough to hold the 
shape. Too much sugar or wine hinders the freez- 
ing process. After the ice has been cracked and the 
cream beaten, the work of preparing a parfait is very 
slight. The unmolding of parfaits or any variety 
of ice once was considered a troublesome matter. 
If a little air can be let in under the ice, no trouble 
will be experienced ; this may be easily accomplished, 
if two narrow strips of paper be used to line the 
mold. Let the end extend out over the edges of 
the mold. By lifting on these papers air can be let 
in and the ice easily removed. Any kind of ice 
packed in a mold made with double covers — the 
mold being first lined with paper — can be un- 



364 Cooking for Two 

molded with ease and without recourse to the water 
faucet, either hot or cold. With a piece of hard 
wood of just the size to slip through the mold, the 
ice may be pressed through upon the serving dish 
without an instant's delay. 

PACKING A MOLD 

If ordinary ice cream or sherbet is to be packed 
in a mold, do not freeze as solid as for serving, 
lest it prove troublesome to press the mixture closely 
into the mold, and air spaces be left here and there, 
which will spoil the shape. Fill the mold to over- 
flow, spread paper over the top and over this press 
down the cover, tie securely, especially if the mold 
be made with two covers, and at once bury in the 
freezing mixture. The mold for parfaits, carefully 
lined, to avoid salt water, must be chilled before use. 
The flavoring mixture and the whipped cream, which 
should be of about the same consistency, should be 
thoroughly chilled, but not combined until the last 
moment before packing. The recipes given make 
just enough mixture to fill a quart mold. They may 
be easily divided and half the mixture frozen in 
empty baking powder or cocoa cans. Parfaits may 
be frozen, also, in the can of a freezer and be un- 
molded in a round like a pie. Or the frozen mixture 
may be transferred by the spoonful to long-stemmed 
glasses. In glasses, for special occasion, finish with 
whipped cream and a cherry. In hot weather the 
ice in which a parfait is packed will have to be re- 



Cooking for Two 365 

newed. Ices may be kept, after freezing, for many 
hours, packed in a fireless cooker. 



VANILLA ICE CREAM, PHILADELPHIA STYLE 

I pint of thin cream J4 tablespoonful of vanilla ex- 

Y-i cup of granulated sugar tract 

Mix all together and turn into the can of the 
freezer. Pack with salt and crushed ice in the usual 
proportion and turn the crank until the mixture is 
well frozen. At first turn the crank slowly, later turn 
more quickly. Take out the dasher and scrape the 
cream from it into the freezer; beat the whole thor- 
oughly, smooth over the top and put on the cover. 
If the ice floats, turn off the water and repack, using 
larger pieces of ice and one measure of salt to four 
or five of ice. Spread burlaps, carpet or newspaper 
over the top, to keep the ice from melting too fast. 
The cream may be scalded; in summer this is ad- 
visable. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM, JUNKET 

I pint of milk 54 tablespoonful of vanilla ex- 

54 cup of double cream tract 

Yi cup of sugar J4 junket tablet, 

I tablespoonful of cold water 

Crush the half tablet and let stand in the cold 
water to dissolve. Heat the milk, cream, sugar and 
vanilla to about 90° F. ; stir in the dissolved tablet, 
pour into the can of the freezer and let stand in a 
warm place until the mixture " sets " or jellies. Do 



366 Cooking for Two 

not jar the mixture while it is jellying. When cold 
freeze as in the first recipe. This makes an excep- 
tionally nice ice cream. 



CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Melt one or two ounces of chocolate over hot 
water; add three or four tablespoon fuls of sugar 
and the same quantity of boiling water; stir and 
cook until smooth, then add to the cream or milk to 
be used. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM 

Allow four extra tablespoon fuls of sugar, to each 
pint of milk or cream given In the previous recipes. 
Cook the half cup of sugar, given in the recipes, to 
caramel, add half a cup of water and let boil to a 
thick syrup. Add this with the extra sugar to the 
milk or cream and finish as usual. 



FROZEN CUSTARD 

2 cups of milk 14 teaspoonful of salt 

Yolks of 4 eggs 14 cup of cream 

Vi cup of sugar, generous i/i, tablespoonfuls of vanilla 
measure extract 

Use all the ingredients, save the last two, in ma- 
king a "boiled custard;" when cold add the cream 
and vanilla and freeze as usual. 



Cooking for Two 367 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM 

1 pint of milk J4 teaspoonful of salt 
J4 cup of sugar i basket of strawberries 

2 level tablespoonfuls of corn- ji/^ cups of sugar (granulated) 

starch i pint of cream 

Sift together, several times, the sugar, cornstarch 
and salt, then cook in the milk, scalded over hot 
water; stir constantly until the mixture thickens and 
is smooth, then cover and let cook fifteen minutes. 
Pick over, wash and drain the berries; mix them 
with the sugar and let stand an hour or more, then 
press through a fine sieve. Strain the cornstarch 
mixture into the freezer, and when cold add the 
cream and begin to freeze the mixture. When half 
frozen add the strawberries and sugar and finish 
freezing. 

PEACH ICE CREAM 

54 cup of peach pulp Juice of J4 lemon 

54 cup of granulated sugar i^ cups of thin cream 

Pare and stone choice, ripe peaches and press the 
pulp through a "ricer;" add the sugar and lemon 
juice and turn into the can of a freezer, packed in 
ice and salt ; add the cream and freeze as usual. 

PEACH CUP 

Peach Ice Cream as above Yi an orange, peeled, seeded 

2 peaches, pared and sliced and sliced 

Sugar to sweeten 

Mix the prepared fruit with the sugar; put into 
chilled cups and dispose peach ice cream above. 



368 Cooking for Two 

PEACH SHERBET 

2 cups of water Juice of i orange or equivalent 

1 cup of sugar of peach pulp 
J4 cup of peach pulp Juice of J4 lemon 

Boil the sugar and water twenty minutes ; let cool, 
add the fruit juice and freeze. This may be used 
with slices of fruit for " Peach Cup." Pineapple 
and peaches make a particularly good combination 
for " fruit cup." 

GRAPEFRUIT SHERBET 

2 cups of water i cup of juice 

1 cup of sugar Juice of i lemon 

Juice of I grapefruit or Candied cherries, chopped fine 

Boil the sugar and water twenty minutes ; let cool, 
add the fruit juice and freeze. Serve in cups with 
chopped cherries sprinkled on top. 

BLOOD ORANGE SHERBET 

2 cups of water i tablespoonful of cold water 
I cup of sugar Juice of 3 or 4 "blood" 
y^ teaspoonful of granulated oranges 

gelatine Juice of J4 lemon 

Boil the sugar and water twenty minutes ; add the 
gelatine, soaked in the cold water, and when cold add 
the fruit juice and freeze as usual. 

COFFEE PARFAIT 

y2 tablespoonful of gelatine 2 yolks of eggs 

Ys cup of cold water cup of sugar 

I cup of strong coffee ij^ cups of double cream 




Vanilla and Strawberry Ice Cream in One Glass. — Page 365. 




Ginger 1-Ja\-arian Gream. —Page 34S. 




Peach Ice Cream for Two. — Page ^67. 




Strawberry - and - ATarsiimallow Dkssert. — Page $4^. 




Golden Parfait, with Fruit. — Page S70. 




Banana Parfait.- — Page j6p. 



Cooking for Two 369 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water. Heat the 
coffee with half the sugar. Beat the yolks, add the 
rest of the sugar and beat again; cook the yolks in 
the coffee as boiled custard and when slightly thick- 
ened add the gelatine and strain into a cold dish; 
stir until the mixture thickens a little, fold in the 
cream, beaten solid, and finish as usual. 

BANANA PARFAIT 

iJ4 cups of banana pulp (about i^ cup of candied fruit, cut 

3 bananas) fine (apricots, pineapple, 

54 cup of sugar cherries, etc.) 

Juice of Vi lemon 3 tablespoonfuls of Jamaica 

lYi cups of double cream rum 

Cook the pulp, sugar and lemon juice until scalded 
throughout. Beat the cream till firm. Soak the 
fruit several hours or overnight in the rum ; a heavy 
sugar syrup may be used in place of the rum. If the 
alcohol or syrup be not used, the fruit will freeze 
too hard to be eaten. Fold the mixture together and 
finish in the usual manner. 

PRUNE PARFAIT 

5^ pound of prunes Juice of J^ lemon 

J4 cup of sugar White of i egg 

Yi cup of prun€ juice i!^ cups of double cream 

Soak the prunes overnight; cook till tender; re- 
move and discard stones and cut the flesh in bits. 
Cook the sugar with the lemon and prune juice to 



370 Cooking for Two 

soft ball (238° F.), pour in a fine stream upon the 
white of egg, beaten dry, and beat until cold ; add the 
pieces of prune and fold in the cream. Turn into 
a quai-t mold and finish in the usual manner. 

CANNED APRICOT PARFAIT 

Press enough canned apricots through a sieve to 
fill a cup. Simmer the pulp with half a cup of sugar 
until it is quite thick, then set aside to become cold. 
Beat one cup and a half of double cream until firm; 
fold into the puree and finish in the usual manner. 
This parfait, not being very sweet, will freeze in 
two hours or a little less. Serve with a sauce made 
by cooking the rest of the syrup in the can with half 
a cup of sugar. Or, serve the parfait in cups with 
the sauce poured over and the top sprinkled with 
fine-chopped pistachio nuts. 

GOLDEN PARFAIT, WITH FRENCH FRUIT 

% cup of sugar S yolks of eggs, beaten light 

Yi cup of water lY^ cups double cream 

% teaspoonful of cream-of- Y2 cup French fruit 
tartar Jamaica rum 

Let the fruit soak in rum to cover overnight or 
for several hours. Cook the sugar, water and cream 
of tartar to 238° F. (soft ball) ; pour in a fine 
stream upon the beaten yolks, beating constantly 
meanwhile; return to the fire over hot water and 
beat until the mixture thickens. Beat occasionally 
until cold. Have the cream beaten solid. Sprinkle 



Cooking for Two 371 

some of the fruit into the mold, lined and chilled 
as usual. Fold the egg and cream mixtures together 
and turn into the mold, sprinkling in the fruit here 
and there. 

SAUCE FOR VANILLA ICE CREAM 

I cup of sugar strawberry or raspberry 

J4 cup of boiling water pulp 

J4 cup of claret or ^ cup of 

Cook the sugar and water to a thick syrup. It 
will take about eight or nine minutes. Cool and add 
the wine or strained fruit. Serve in cups, pouring 
the sauce over or around the ice. Sprinkle the top 
with fine-chopped pistachio nuts. 



BANANA PUREE FOR ICE CREAM 

Cook a cup of banana puree (peeled bananas 
pressed through a sieve) with a cup of sugar and the 
juice of a lemon until hot throughout ; let cool, add 
a teaspoonful of vanilla and use as a sauce for vanilla 
ice cream. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM WITH MAPLE SYRUP 
Put two tablespoonfuls of maple syrup into a 
chilled sherbet cup; add a spoonful of vanilla ice 
cream and sprinkle the top of the cream with English 
walnuts, chopped rather coarse. Caramel syrup as, 
also, chocolate syrup may be used in the same way. 



372 Cooking for Two 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM 

I cup of sugar i ounce of chocolate 

Yi cup of water 

Cook the sugar to caramel, add the water, let boil 
to a syrup, add the chocolate and let boil two or three 
minutes. Strain through a cloth and use cold as the 
maple syrup. 



A SERMONET 

" The poetry of life always has a practical side to it, and most 
practical affairs rightly worked out are full of poetry." — E. P. 
Powell, in " The Country Home." 

"The women of the home should so arrange their household 
duties as to allow time for outdoor exercise and some form of 
healthful recreation." — " Back to Nature." 

An old adage runs something like this: " A work- 
man is known by his tools." No one expects a car- 
penter with dull planes or broken saws, and who does 
not own a glue-pot or a spirit-level, to turn out a 
finished job. A woman may use a hair or hat pin 
for a larding-needle and slice bacon or bone a chicken 
or a fish with a knife that will not take, much less 
keep, an edge ; but she who makes no effort to supply 
herself with fitting implements of her trade certainly 
has no great love for her calling, and is not destined 
to shine therein. The cook who visits the public 
library to examine dictionaries of cooking, in order 
to discover what a certain chef uses in Hollandaise 
sauce to give it an odd and piquant flavor, will never 
beg for work. Her calling means more to her than 
the buying power of the money she receives on Satur- 
day night. 

Yet, granting that this be true, the old adage needs 
an amendment or an addition, for the modern work- 



374 Cooking for Two 

man is known by the disposition he makes of his tools. 
A kitchen pantry has its uses, but it is turned from its 
legitimate purpose, when it is made into a storehouse 
for the utensils needed at the range and sink. Go 
into your kitchen to get breakfast or dinner, and count 
the steps you might save, were the various saucepans, 
frying-pans, forks, dredgers, etc., needed in the actual 
cooking of the meal, where the hand can be quickly 
laid upon them. Note the distance between the stove 
and sink. In two houses lately visited two rooms 
lay between them. Is the refrigerator conveniently 
placed in reference to the pantry or the place where 
food is prepared for cooking? Modern houses, sup- 
posedly, are planned aright, but do not go on the sup- 
position that whatever is is right. Do not waste your 
strength in useless, monotonous walking back and 
forth in the kitchen. Have things arranged to save 
steps, and put in the extra time in the open air. 

Truly we might spend vastly more time out of 
doors and at the same time supply our tables with a 
greater variety of food, if receptacles holding sifted 
flour of various kinds, well dried out and ready for 
instant use, were in close proximity to mixing-bowls, 
egg-beaters, baking-tins, measuring-cups, sugar, but- 
ter, eggs, baking-powder, and other commodities. 

Make the doing of work as easy as possible by 
having every utensil or food product as near as pos- 
sible to the place where it Is to be handled. Then do 
things often, and you will have no consciousness of the 
motions you go through to secure the result. When 



Cooking for Two 375 

dancing the two-step or the waltz, who, save the be- 
ginner or the teacher, analyzes the result to find out 
the postures or positions that go to produce it? 

We say of certain housekeepers among our ac- 
quaintances, " They have a ' faculty ' of turning off 
work." Possibly this faculty is nothing but the expo- 
nent of an unusually active and attentive mind. 

In reading the newspaper aloud, there are those 
whose whole attention is fixed on the words they are 
speaking. Others, while they are giving to the spoken 
words the inflection needed to convey the proper 
meaning of the author, have their eyes at the other 
end of the line or even at the end of the paragraph, 
and know what is coming next. Thus, in laying the 
table and cooking a meal, the woman with " faculty " 
carries in her mind many things at one and the same 
time. She is never in danger of forgetting any one 
item or of not knowing the exact condition of all at 
a given moment. Such a woman can prepare a meal 
of three or four courses, properly selected, and made 
ready to cook beforehand, in the time that another 
would give to the cooking of a single dish. She would 
also finish with no more fatigue than if she had stood 
and watched over the one dish, knife and fork or 
skimmer in hand, during every moment of the cook- 
ing. 

Simplify the cooking during the hot months. Com- 
plicated dishes, sauces, rich cakes, and pastry are cer- 
tainly out of season — to say the least. Fruit and 
berries are always welcome, and, when tired of the 



376 Cooking for Two 

old way of serving with cream and sugar, try them 
with oil and acid. Those who are conservative lose 
half the joy of life, and the first place where one's 
conservatism crops out is in respect to food. 

Know what you are going to do before you enter 
the kitchen, then go straight to the mark without 
dallying. Fuel and precious time are often wasted, 
while one is trying to make up her mind what she will 
do. Then, worn out in trying to find something easy 
'to make, calling for nothing tangible in the way of in- 
gredients and little cooking, the matter is given up, 
and the grocer Is telephoned to bring something In 
the inevitable paper bag. We fail to see any satis- 
faction in this kind of housekeeping. Housekeeping 
Is a business to be conducted in summer and in winter. 
To be always equal to it, take a holiday often. Do 
not stagnate. Initiate new projects in your business. 
Rejoice in It. Avoid overwork and overheat, but keep 
up your Interest. We love those things upon which 
,we expend our efforts. 

UNDER -NUTRITION AND OVER - NUTRITION 

The two mistakes into which the new housekeeper 
is most often led are under-feeding and over-feeding. 
There are so many things she wishes to have In her 
new home that the allowance for food Is often drawn 
upon to supply things more highly prized; and the 
items for food are restricted to whatever is cheap, 
regardless of its composition. Starch Is the principal 
compound in cheap foods. But there are individuals 



Cooking for Two 377 

whose digestive organs are not tolerant of starch, and 
they are just as intolerant of fat, if it be presented 
as a steady diet. In the main, the dietary of such 
individuals needs include plainly cooked fresh meat 
and fish, with green vegetables, while fancy breads, 
cereals, and sweets, in the form of pastry, puddings, 
and cakes, are to be avoided, except on rare occasions. 

On the other hand, many new housekeepers think 
meat, fish, and, possibly, eggs, the only articles having 
any considerable nutritive value, and, consequently, 
the only articles to be considered in eating to live. 
The idea that bulk is needed to insure the best digest- 
ive action is undreamed of by them, or, if considered 
at all, they think it is secured by these same nutritious 
articles rather than by bread with green and starchy 
vegetables. The normal stomach can digest a little 
of any kind of food, and health will be better, if 
monotony in selection be avoided. But these, and 
other matters of like import, are easily worked out, 
provided the desire be present to choose food in ac- 
cordance with the laws of dietetics. 

Do not follow the lead of those misguided butter- 
flies who think that physical exercise that savors of 
practical utility detracts from health no less than 
from dignity. To those who can do things is given 
an added dignity. The women of this century must 
be able to execute as well as to know. Then, too, 
any proper physical exercise will tend to set the 
blood in circulation, deliver the nutritious elements 
of the food ingested where they are needed, and drive 



378 Cooking for Two 

waste matters out through the pores of the skin. 
Often dish-washing in a well ventilated kitchen will 
prove a most efficacious remedy for the dull, drowsy 
sensations just after breakfast. Let active exercise 
start the perspiration, and cold extremities will be- 
come warm, the brain clear, and the day will not be 
lost. 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN JANUARY 

" Everyone knows that money alone cannot make good dishes, however good the 
raw materials may be." 



BREAKFAST 

Grapefruit 

Broiled Bacon 

Hashed Potato in Ramequin 

Dry Toast 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST, 7.30 o'clock 

Cereal, Cream 

Creamed Ham with Poached 

Eggs 

Cold Apple Sauce 

Doughnuts 

Cocoa 



BREAKFAST 

Cereal 

Hot Dates, Thin Cream 

Lamb-and-Potato Hash 

Muffins 

Coffee 

BREAKFAST 

Cereal, Thin Cream 

Bacon 

Apple Fritters 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Broiled Tripe 

Baked Potatoes 

Canned Com Griddle Cakes 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Grapefruit 

Broiled or Fried Oysters 

Buttered Toast 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Boston Baked Beans, 

Reheated on Toast 

Mustard Pickles 

Doughnuta 

Coffee 



SUNDAY 

DINNER 

Broiled Fillet of Beef with 

Potatoes Anna 

Baked Squash 

Celery 

Canned Raspberry Charlotte 



Small Cups of Coffee 

MONDAY 

DINNER. 1 o'clock 
Lamb Chops (Neck) 



Lettuce Salad 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 

(Meringue) 

Small Cups of Coffee 

TUESDAY 

DINNER 

Ham-and-Macaroni Timbales 

Creamed Celery au gratin 

Apple Dumpling 

Small Cups of Coffee 

WEDNESDAY 

DINNER 

Beefsteak Pie 

Baked Potatoes 

Celery-and- Apple Salad 

Caramel Sponge, 

Boiled C\istard 

Small Cups of Coffee 

THURSDAY 

DINNER 

Pork Tenderloin, Roasted, 

Hot Apple Sauce 

Mashed Potato 

Boiled Turnip 

Dates in Lemon Jelly 

Small Cups of Coffee 

FRIDAY 

DINNER 

Broiled Fresh Fish, Maitre 

d'Hotel Butter 

Mashed Potato 

Boiled Cabbage 

Apple Pie 

Small Cups of Coffee 

SATURDAY 

DINNER 

Cold Pork Tenderloin 

Sweet Potatoes Southern Style 

Cabbage Salad 

Steamed Chocolate Pudding 

Sultana Sauce 

Small Cups of Coffee 



SUPPER 



Rf^ped Rolls 

Shced Apples, Baked in 

Bean Pot 

Fudge 



SUPPER 

Stewed Lima Beans 

Bread and Butter 

Fig Cookies 

Canned Pears 

Tea 



SUPPER 

Cream Toast 

Sponge Jelly Roll 

Cocoa 



SUPPER 

Hot Baltimore Samp, 

Maple Syrup, Cream 

Fig Cookies 

Cocoa 



SUPPER 

Hot Rye-meal MufiBns 

Canned Fruit 

(>eam Cheese 

Cocoa 



SUPPER 

Hominy, Cream 

Bread and Butter 

Boston Baked Beans 

Canned Fruit 

Tea 



- SUPPER 

Canned C!orn Custard 

Baking-powder Biscuit 

Honey in the Comb 

Tea 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN JANUARY 

Formerly, " swooning Angelina, in company, toyed tenderly with a chicken wing 
(and) later retired to the pantry to stuff herself wiUi jam and pickles.'* — 
Adapted frotn The Virtue of Gluttony. 



BREAKFAST 
Rolls. Marmalade. Coffee 



SUNDAY 

DINNER 

Steamed-and-Baked Fowl 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Celery. Fruit Jelly 

Chocolate Cuatard 



SUPPER 

Sardines. Olives 

Bread and Butter 

Crackers 



BREAKFAST 

Cereal 

Bacon Broiled in Oven 

Baking-powder Biscuit 

Evaporated Peaches, Stewed 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Cereal, Milk 

Sardines in Sauce on Toast 

Corn-meal MufSns 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Bacon Broiled in Oven 

Small Baked Potatoes 

Graham Muffins 

Baked Bananas 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Cereal, Milk 

Potatoes Warmed In Milk 

Sausage Broiled in Oven 

Apple Sauce 

Toasted Muffins 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Cream Toast 

Fried Mush, Syrup 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Cereal with Dates, Milk 

Cnunbed Oysters, Fried 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 



MONDAY 

LUNCHEON 

Hot Dates 

Cream-of-Celery Soup 

Browned Crackers 

TUESDAY 

LUNCHEON 



Zwiebach. Cocoa 
Stewed Figs 



WEDNESDAY 

LUNCHEON 



Tomato Rabbit 

Crackers 

Canned Pineapple 

Cookies 



THURSDAY 

LUNCHEON 

Bread-and-Butter Sand- 
wiches 
Raw Apples 

FRIDAY 

LUNCHEON 

Oyster Stew 

Cole Slaw 

Cored Apples, Cooked in Syrup 

Bread and Butter 

SATURDAY 

LUNCHEON 

Macaroni with Cheese and 

Tomato 
Coffee Jelly, Boiled Custard 



DINNER 

Cold Fowl. Baked Potatoes 

Canned Corn 
Baked Tapioca Custard Pud- 
ding with Raisins 



DINNER 

Souffle of Fowl 

Canned Corn Fritters 

Baked Potatoes 

Cranberry Sauce 

Lettuce, French Dressing 

Cheese 



DINNER 

Fresh Codfish, Steamed 

(2 pounds) 

Egg Sauce (yolks of 2 eggs) 

Steamed Potatoes 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Pineapple Souffltf 

(whites of 2 eggs) 



DINNER 



Beef Stew (Slice from Vein) 

Baking-powder Biscuit 
Rice Pudding with Raisins 



DINNER 

Creamed Fresh Codfish au 

Gratin 

Baked Potatoes 

Scalloped Tomatoes 

Prune Whip in Cups 



DINNER 

Lamb Chops, Broiled 

Canned Peaa 

Stewed Potatoes 

Hulled Corn, Milk and Syrup 

Tea 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN FEBRUARY 

A meal should be taken at leisure, body and mind being, for the time being, given 
up to it, and to agreeable social intercourse. —Horact Fletcher. 



BREAKFAST 

Orange Halves 
E^s, Poached in Broth 

on Toast 

Yeast Rolls, Reheated 

Cocoa 



BREAKFAST 
Finnan Haddie, 
Cooked in Milk 
Stewed Potatoes 
Fried Mush 
Coffee 



BREAKFAST 
Oranges 

Cold Corned Beef, Sliced 

Thin, Mustard 

White Hashed Potatoes 

Doughnuts 

Coffee 



SUNDAY 

DINNER 

Veal Balls en Casserole 

Lettuce Salad 

Half of Prune Pie 

Coffee 

MONDAY 

DINNER AT NOON 

Corned Beef, Boiled Potatoes 

Boiled Turnip 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Half of Prune Pie 

Cocoa 

TUESDAY , 

DINNER 

Slice of Frozen Salmon, 

Boiled, Egg Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes 

Canned Peas. Pickles 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 

Coffee 



SUPPER 

Peanut Butter Sandwiches 

Sliced Oranges 

Tea 



SUPPER 

Cream Toast 

Evaporated Peaches, Stewed 

Hot MUk Sponge Cake 

Tea 



SUPPER 

Creamed Corned Beef au 

Gratin 

Bread and Butter 

Baked Apples, Thin Cream 

Tea 



BREAKFAST 
Orange Halves 
Broiled Bacon 
Omelet with Peas 
Buttered Toast 
Coffee 



WEDNESDAY 

DINNER 

Corned Beef-and-Potato 

Hash, with Poached Eggs 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Bread Pudding 

Tea 



SUPPER 

Salmon Salad 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Oatmeal-and-Fruit Cookies 



BREAKFAST 

Sliced Bananas, Thin Cream 

Dried Beef, Broiled 

Baking-powder Biscuit 

Coffee 



THURSDAY 

DINNER 

Lamb Chops (neck) en Casserole 

Cole Slaw 

Apple Pie 

Cheese 

Tea 



SUPPER 

Buttered Toast 

Stewed Prunes 

Cream Cheese 

Cookies 

Tea 



BREAKFAST 



Orange Halves 

Cumed Com Griddle Cakes 

Dry Toast 

Coffee 



FRIDAY 

DINNER 

Slices of Fish Baked with 

Bread Dressing 

Philadelphia Relish 

Mashed Potatoes 

Stewed Onions 

Nuts Molded in Lemon Jelly 

Coffee 



SUPPER 



Boiled Rice, Cheese Sauce 

Tea 

Chocolate Candies 



BREAKFAST 

Orange Halves 
Creamed Dried Beef 
Baked Potato Cakes 

Toast 

Coffee 



SATURDAY 

DINNER 

Slice of Beef Tenderloin, Broiled 

Baked Potatoes 

Canned Com (half can) 

Stewed 

Pmne SoufB^ Custard Sauce 

Tea 



SUPPER 

Smoked Halibut 

Bread and Butter 

Apple Sauce 

Roxbury Cakes 

Tea 



SIMPLE MENUS FOR FAMILY OF TWO ADULTS, FEBRUARY 

(Man and woman, at work outside the home, noon dinner.) 
If a meal is taken when the appetite is at the most healthy point of keenness, and 
no more is eaten than nature requires, business may be resumed pleasantly and 
without deranging the digestive powers. — Thomas Walker. 



BREAKFAST 

Oatmeal. Hot Dates, Cream 

Rye-meal Mufl&ns 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 



Ralsfcon Breakfast Food 

Bananas, Cream 

Toasted Muf&is (left over) 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Veal Loaf-and-Potato Hash 

White Mountain Rolls 

Orange Marmalade 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Shredded Wheat Biscuit 

with Poached Eggs 

Stewed Prunes 

Rolls (Reheated) 

Cocoa 

BREAKFAST 



Eggs Baked in Chips, Bits of 

Toast 

Date Muffins 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Sardines in Cream Sauce on 

Toast 

Baked Potatoes 

Graham Rolls 



BREAKFAST 

Bacon, Fried Potatoes 

Hecker's Buckwheat Cakes 

Orange Marmalade 

Ck)ffee 



SUNDAY 

DINNER 
Hot Veal Loaf, Tomato Sauce 
Lima Beans (Dried), Buttered 

Cabbage Salad 

Rice Pudding 

MONDAY 

DINNER 

Cold Veal Loaf 

Sliced Potatoes, Broiled and 

Buttered 

Cold Lima Beans, French 

Dressing 

Rice Pudding (left over) 

Cereal Coffee 

TUESDAY 

DINNER 

Small Slice Halibut, Sauted 

in Bacon Fat 

Plain Boiled Potatoes 

Cabbage. Boiled Dressing 

Sliced Oranges. Wafers 

Cereal Coffee 

WEDNESDAY 

DINNER 

Beef Tenderloin, Broiled 

Potatoes in Milk (Left Over) 

Canned Wax Beans 

Bromangelon. (Coffee 

THURSDAY 

DINNER 

Half Shoulder of Lamb, Steamed 

Small Turnips, Boiled and 

Buttered 

Cold Wax Beans 

French Dressing 

Gelatine Blartc Mange 

Fruit Jelly 

CTereal Coffee 

FRIDAY 

DINNER 
Canned Salmon, Hot Egg Sauce 

Plain Boiled Potatoes 

Canned Beets, French Dressmg 

Lemon Jell-O. Wafers 

Cereal Coffee 

SATURDAY 

DINNER 
Cold Shoulder of Lamb 

Sauted Bananas 

Hot Oatmeal, Buttered 

Stewed Fip:s, Custard Sauce 

Drop Ginger Cakes 

Tea 



SUPPER 

Bread and Butter 

Apple Sauce. Cream Cheese 

Cocoa 



SUPPER 



Hot Stewed Tomatoes 

Graham Bread. Bacon 

Stewed Prunes 

Drop Cakes. Tea 



SUPPER 

Creamed Macaroni with Cheese 

Dried Beef 

Stewed Figs 

Bread and Butter 

Tea 



SUPPER 

Rice Cooked with Bacon and 

Tomatoes 

Canned Fruit. Toast 

Tea 



SUPPER 



Hot Succotash (Canned) 

Bread and Butter 

Canned Fruit 

Sweet Wafers 

Cocoa 



SUPPER 

Oyster Stew, Crackers 

Pickled Beets 

Bread and Butter 

Cranberry Sauce 



SUPPER 

Hot Curried Salmon 

Beets, French Dressing 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee Jelly 

Whipped Cream 

Tea or Hot Water 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN MARCH 

" The man who is proud of his wife should occasionally tell her so." 



BREAKFAST 

Grapefruit Cut in Halves 

Two Pan-broiled Chops 

Creamed Potatoes 

Com-meal Muffins 

Cereal Coffee 



BREAKFAST 



Grape-nuts, Cream 

Milk Toast with Poached 

Eggs above 

Corn-meal Muffins, Reheated 

Cereal Coffee 



BREAKFAST 



Orange, Cut in Halves 
Hfuibut au Gratin 

Mashed Potato Cakes 
Dry Toast. Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Boiled Rice, Cream 

Broiled Bacon 

Cold Sweet Potato^, Broiled 

Rye-meal Muffins 

Stewed Prunes 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

An Orange, Cut in Halves 

Eggs Shin-ed with Crumbs 

io Cups 

Yeast Rolls, Reheated 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Malt Breakfast Food, Cream 

Smoked Halibut, Creamed 

Potatoes Cut in Quarters 

and BoOed 

Baking-powder Biscuit, Toasted 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Toasted Com Flakes, Cream 

Poached Eggs on Toast 

Coffee 



SUNDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Apple-and-Date Salad 

Bread and Butter 

Cocoa Macaroons 

Hot Cocoa 

MONDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Bread and Butter 

Pecan or English Walnut 

Meats 

Cocoa. An Orange 



TUESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Half-pint of Oysters, Stewed 

Bread and Butter 

Stewed Prunes. Cheese 



WEDNESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Muffins Toasted 

Orange Marmalade 

Cocoa 



THURSDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Smoked Halibut — Toasted 

Over the Fire 

Bread and Butter 

Apple Sauce 

Cup of Coffee 

FRIDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Sliced Banana, Cream 

Bread and Butter 

Cream Sponge Cake. Cocoa 



SATURDAY 



DINNER 

Beef Balls en Casserole 

(H a lb. of beef, half recipe) 

Lettuce, French Dressing 

Cream Cheese 

Browned Crackers 

Cherry Jell-0, Whipped Cream 

Tea or Black Coffee 

DINNER 

Pound SUce of HaUbut 

Baked with Bread Dressing 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

Philadelphia Relish (Half 

Recipe) 

Mashed Potatoes 

Half a Can of String Beans 

Baked Caramel Custard 

DINNER 
Slice of Beef Tenderloin 

Broiled (H a lb.) 

Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Half Can of String Beans, 

French Dressmg 

Fig Whip (whites of two eggs) 

Boiled Custard (yolks of two 

BlackCoffee 

DINNER 

Cream-of-Celery Boup 

Rump of Veal (four pounds, 

60c.), Roasted 

Macaroni Baked with Milk 

and Cheese 

Spinach (half peck) 

Stewed Figs. Oeam 

DINNER 

Pint of Oysters, Scalloped 

Baking-powder Biscuit 

Celery Hearts 

Philadelphia Relish 

Baked Apple Dumpling 

(Pmt Dish) 
Small Cups of Coffee 



DINNER 

Cold Roast Veal, Sliced Thin 

Baked Potatoes, -Brown Gravy 

Spinach (left over) with 

Boiled Egg 

Floating Island (sponge 

cake, etc.) 

Half Cups Coffee 



DINNER 
Veal Souffle. Cream Sauce Lettuce Salad 

Sweet Potatoes Individual Charlotte Russe 

Southern Style Half Cups Coffee 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN MARCH 

" The kitchen is a country in which there are always discoveries to be made." ■ 

La Reyniere. 



BREAKFAST 



Cereal with Dates, Cream 

Rye-meal Mufi^ 

Cocoa 



SUNDAY 

DINNER 

Tomato Soup 

Cold Veal Loaf, SUced Thin 

Mashed Potato 

Canned Lima Beans 

Sweet Pickles 

Baked Caramel Custard 

Small Cup of Coffee 



SUPPER 



Sardine. Lettuce 
Bread and Butter 
Cereal Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Poached Eggs on Toast 

Bacon 

Toasted Muffins 

Fried Cereal, Maple Syrup 

Tea 



MONDAY 

LUNCHEON 
Lettuce-and-Lima Bean 

Salad 

Baking-powder Biscuit 

Baked Custards 

' Oatmeal Macaroons 

Cereal Coffee 



DINNER 

Cream-of-Potato Soup 

Veal Loaf 

Escalloped Tomatoes 

Baked Apple Dumpling 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Cereal, Cream 

Salt Codfish Creamed 

Boiled Potatoes 

Apple Dumpling (Reheated) 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Molded Cereal, Baked, 

Cream 

Scrambled E^s 

Potatoes Cooked m Milk 

Toasted Biscuit 

Cereal Coffee 

BREAKFAST 

Oranges 
Creamed Chicken on Toast 
Rice-and-Corn-meal Griddle 



Coffee 



BREAKFAST 



Eggs Cooked in Shell 

Mashed Potato Cakes 

Dry Toast. Cocoa 



BREAKFAST 
Cereal. Cream 
Bacon, Fried Eggs 
(Delicately Choked) 
French Fried Potato 
Corn-meal Muffins 
Cereal Coffee 



TUESDAY 

LUNCHEON 

Turkish Pilaf 

Prune-and-Apple Pie (Half) 

Tea 

WEDNESDAY 

LUNCHEON 

Welsh Rabbit. Pickles 

Lemon Fanchonettes 

Coffee 

THURSDAY 

LUNCHEON 

(3ream-of-CeIery Soup 

Browned Crackers 

Hot Gingerbread. Cheese 

Cocoa 

FRIDAY 

LUNCHEON 

Macaroni with Cheese 

Cole Slaw 

Bread and Butter 

Gingerbread. Cereal Coffee 

SATURDAY 

LUNCHEON 

Fish Chowder (Reheated) 

Pickles 

Bread and Butter 

Orange Marmalade 

Tea 



DINNER 

Stewed Chicken 

Baking-powder Biscuits 

Baked Squash 

Pickles or Oanberry Sauce 

Rice Pudding with Raisins 

Small Cup of Coffee 

DINNER 

Chicken Floured and Fried 

Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Celery Salad 

Prune-and-Apple Pie (HalQ 

Tea 



DINNER 

Hamburg Steak 

Mashed Potatoes 

Buttered Parsnips 

Cole Slaw 

Cocoa Junket, Whipped Cream 

Oatmeal Macaroons 

Tea 

DINNER 

Fish Chowder 

Lettuce Salad 

Canned IVuit. (^eam Cheese 

Oatmeal Macaroons 

Coffee 



DINNER 
Veal with Brown Sauce 
Buttered Lima Beans 

(Dried or Canned) 

Lettuce-and-Egg Salad 

Queen of Puddings 

Coffee 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN APRIL 

* How sweet the butter our own hands have churned." — Charles Reade. 

SUNDAY 

BREAKFAST DINNER SUPPER 

Broiled Lamb Chops 

Mashed Potato^ 

Browned Onions 

Lettuce, French Dressing 

"Steamed" Custard 



Grape Nuts, Cream 
Salt Codfish Balls 

Radishes 
Spider Corn Cake 



Bread and Butter 

Baked Rhubub 

Pecan-Nut Wafers 

Tea 



BREAKFAST 

Granose Flakes 

French Omelet 

Hashed Potatoes 

Spider Com Cake 

(Reheated) 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Oran^ Cut in Halves 

Half a Salt Mackerel Cooked 

in Milk 

Stewed Potatoes 

Buttered Toast 

Coffee 



MONDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Stewed Lima Beans 

Bread and Butter 

Lettuce, French Dr^sing 

Toasted Cracker 

Cream Cheese. Tea 

TUESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Lettu(£-and-Lima-Bean 

Salad 

Bread and Butter 

Steamed Prune Pudding 

(Reheated) 

Tea 



DINNER 

Hamburg Steak 

Asparagus on Toast 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

Steamed Prune Pudding, 

Hard Sauce 

Half Cups of Coffee 



DINNER 

Fresh Fish Chowder 

Buttered Parsnips 

Pickles 

Baking-powder Biscuit 

Custard 

Half Cupa of Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

CereaL Stewed Prunes 

Eggs Poached in Broth 

(flank ends of Chops) 

Entire-Wheat Rolls (Reheated) 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Broiled Bacon 

Eggs in the Shell 

Dry T^ast. Fried Muah 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 
Remnants of Beef en Cas- 
serole 
Baking-powder Biscuit 
Honey in Comb 
Coffee 



WEDNESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Lettuce, Pnme-and-Pecan 

Nut Salad 

Bread and Butter 

Cookies. Cocoa 

THURSDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Cream Toast 

Sponge Cake 

Ck>coa 

FRIDAY 

LXJNCHEON FOR ONE 

Baking-powder Biscuit, 

Toasted 

Orange Marmalade 

Frizzled Dried Beef 

Tea 



DINNER 
Cream-of-Onion Soup 
Veal Cutlets, Breaded, 

Horseradish 

Tomatoes Cooked with 

Bread Crumbs 

Baked Rhubarb 

Sponge Cake 

DINNER 

Round Steak en Casserole 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce 

Lettuce, French Dressing 

Sliced Banana, Lemon Jelly 

Oeam 



DINNER 

Fresh Fish Mousse 

(without truffles) 

Mashed Potatoes 

Spinach Greens 

French Toast, Vanilla Sauce 



BREAKFAST 

An Orange Cut in Halves 

Dried Beef in Cream Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes 

Rye-meal Muffins 

Coffee 



SATURDAY 

LUNCHEON AWAY FROM 
HOME 



DINNER 

Cold Veal Loaf, Sliced Thin 

White Hashed Potatoes 

Spinach-and-Egg Salad 

Corn Starch Blanc Mange, 

Oeam and Sugar 

Half Cupa of Coffee 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN APRIL 
To cook well requires experience, and that only comes after much practice." 



BREAKFAST 

An Oran^ Cut in Halves 

Broiled Bacon 

Broiled Potatoes 

Radishes 

Boston Brown Bread, Toasted 



BREAKFAST 

Grape Nuts, Cream 

Scrambled Eggs, Reformed 

Style 

Mashed Potato Cakes, Fried 

Cream Toast 

Coffee 

BREAKFAST 



Lamb's Liver, and Bacon 

Creamed Potatoes 

Buttered Toast, 

Marmalade 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Boiled Potatoes"' 

Creamed Smoked Beef 

Stewed Peaches 

Evaporated 

Glazed Buns (Yeast) 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Boiled Rice, Cream 

Parsley Omelet 

Potatoes Hashed in Milk 

Honey in the Comb 

Muffins 

Coffee 

BREAKFAST 

An Orange Cut in Halves 

Salt Codfish Balls 

Horseradish 

Boston Brown Bread, Toasted 



SUNDAY 

DINNER 
Tenderloin from 2% Iba. 

Sirloin Steak, 

Broiled, Maitre d'Hotel 

Butter 

Mashed Potatoes 

Stewed Tomatoes (Canned) 

Lemon Sherbet. Cookies 

Filtered Coffee 

MONDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Hot Buttered Toast 

Dried Beef 

Stewed Prunes 

Cocoa 

TUESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Hot Bacon Sandwich 

Bread Pudding (left over) 

Cocoa 



WEDNESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Poached Egg on Toast 

Glazed Buns 

Cocoa 



THURSDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Hot Cheese Crouton 

Stewed Peaches (Evaporated) 

Ginger Cakes 

Cereal Coffee 

FRIDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Veal-and-Potato Hash 

Bread and Butter 

Fig Cookies 

Cocoa 



SUPPER 



Lettuce, Prune-and-Nut Salad 

Graham Bread and Butter 

Cookies. Tea 



DINNER 
Hamburg Steak, a la Tartare 
Scalloped Potatoes 
Boiled Onions, Buttered 
Bread Pudding, Thanks- 
giving Style 
Coffee 

DINNER 

Cream-of-Onion Soup, Croutons 

Fillets of Halibut(l lb.), 

Baked in Broth 
Small Baked Potatoes 
Boiled Parsnips (two) Buttered 
1 Banana, Sliced with 
Lemon Jelly, Cream 
Half Cups of Ck)ffee 

DINNER 

Top of Sirloin Steak, Broiled 

Mashed Potatoes 

Spinach 

Baked Macaroni 

Baked Bananas, Sultana 

Raisin Sauce 

Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 
Fricassee of Veal Steak 

Boiled Potatoes 

Cold Spinach and Egg, 

French Dressing 

Caramel Junket 

Half Cupa of Coffee 

DINNER 

Fish Chowder 

Cabbage Salad 

Steamed or Baked Custards 

Fig Cookira 

Half Cups of Coffee 



SATURDAY 

BREAKFAST DINNER 
Slice of Fresh Fish Broiled 

or Brook Trout Fried Veal Cutlets (hashed raw veal) 

Bacon. Lyonnaise Potatora Oeamed Parsnips au gratin 

Radishes Lettuce, French Dressing 

Rice Griddle Cakes, Maple Caramel Custard Renversee 

Syrup Half Cups of Coffee 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN MAY 

It is not desirable to cut down the expenditure for food to the lowest point at which 
nutritive food may be obtained, if the income justifies a larger expenditure, •— 
N'orioH. 

SUNDAY 



BREAKFAST 

Grape Nuts, Cream 

Eggs Poached in Broth on 

Toast with Broth Thickened 

Zwieback. Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Fresh Pineapple 

Sardines on Toast, Cream 

Sauce 

Bice Griddle Cakes 

CoSee 



BREAKFAST 



Cold Veal Loaf, Sliced Thin 

Stewed Potatoes. Radishes 

Baked Rhubarb. Dry Toast 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Egg-0-See. Cream 

Lamb-and-Potato Hash with 

Green or Red Pepper 

Spider Com Cake 

Rhubarb Marmalade 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 



Fresh Fish Cakes. Bacon 

Dry Toast. Stewed Prunes 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Malt Breakfast Food, Cream 

Sliced Bananas, Eggs in 

Ramequins 

Parker House Rolls, Reheated 

Cereal Coffee 



DINNER 

Cream-of-Spinach Soup 

Cold Veal Loaf, Sliced Thin 

Mashed Potatoes 

Brown Sauce 

Lettuce, French Dressing 

Boiled Rice, Maple Syrup 

MONDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Baked Potato 

Dried Beef. Frizzled 

Rhubarb Baked with Raisins 

Fresh Bread, Pulled and 

Browned 

TUESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Stewed Lima Beans (dried), 

Buttered 

Bread and Butter 

Caramel Junket, Whipped 

Cream 

Velvet Sponge Cake (half 

recipe) 

WEDNESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Lettuce and Lima Beans, 

French Dressing 

Bread and Butter 

Stewed Prunes 

Tea 

THURSDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Lettuce, Prunes and Nuts, 
French Dressing 
Bread and Butter 
Cup Custard 

FRIDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Creamed Asparagus on Toast 

Lemon Pie 

Cocoa 



SATURDAY 



SUPPER 



Lettuce-and-Egg Salad 

Bread and Butter 
Cocoa. Fruit CJookies 



DINNER 

Lamb Stew with Vegetables 

Hot Asparagus, Buttered 

Browned Crackers 

Cream Cheese 

Pineapple 

Coffee 



DINNER 
Breast of Lamb, Steamed 

and Browned 

Steamed Potatoes, Browned 

Cold Aspara^, French 

Dressing 

Ginger Bavarian Cream 

Cake 

Coffee, Half Cups 



DINNER 

Fresh Fish, Broiled, Red 

Pepper Butter 

Mashed Potatoes 

Cucumbers, Fresh or Pickled 

Strawberries. Sponge Cake 

Coffee, Half Cups 



DINNER 

Tomato Soup O&uib broth) 

Lamb Souffle 

Bermuda Potatoes 

Asparagus, Drawn Butter 

Lemon Pie 

Coffee, Half Cups 



DINNER 

Half a Blue Fish, Broiled 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Spinach with an Eg^ 

Baking powder Biscuit 

Strawberries 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Strawberries 

Broiled Lamb's Liver and 

Bacon 

Small Potatoes, Baked 

Rye-meal Muffins 

Cereal Coffee 



DINNER 

Oeam-of-Spinach Soup 

BIuefish-and-Egg Salad 

Bread and Butter 

Floating Island 

Coffee 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN JUNE 

Plain, simple foods, as direct as possible from fields, orchards and woods, should 
always be our aim. 



BREAKFAST 



Pineapple 

Yeast Rolls, Butter 
Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Lemonade 

Toasted Cora Flakes, Cream 

Scrambled Eggs 

Baking-powder Biscuit 

Grapefruit Marmalade 

Tea 



BREAKFAST 

Salt Codfish Supreme 

Potatoes Hashed in Milk 

Rye-meal Bread, Toasted 

Stewed Rhubarb 

Cereal Coffee 



BREAKFAST 



Green Pea Omelet, Bacon, 

Broiled 

Twin Mountain MuflSna 

Honey 

Cereal Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Boiled Rice, Cream 

Eggs Poached in Timbale 

Molds on Toast, 

Cream Sauce 

Marmalade. Doughnuts 

Coffee 

BREAKFAST 

Cold Veal, Sliced Thin 

White Hashed Potatoes 

Rice Griddle Cakes, 

Syrup 

Cereal Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Grape Nuts, Cream 

Broiled Honeycomb Tripe 

Lyonnese Potatoes 

Radishes 

Toast 

Coffee 



SUNDAY 

DINNER 
Hot Hamburg Roast, 
Brown Sauce 
Baked Potatoes 
Strin^ess Beans, Buttered 
Cress, French Dressing 
Individual Strawberry Short- 
Half Cups of Coffee 

MONDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Potato-and-Sardine Salad 

New Rye-meal Bread and 

Butter 

A Canned Pear 

Cookies. Coffee 

TUESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Beef-and-Potato Hash 
Sliced Banana, Top of MDk 
Velvet Sponge Cake. Tea 



WEDNESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Lettuce-and-Salmon Salad 
Bread and Butter 

Coffee 
Slice of Pineapple 



THURSDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Deviled Ham Sandwich 

Lettuce, French Dressing 

Custard Pie 

Tea 

FRIDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

White Sauce Thickened with 

Cheese on Toast 

Lettuce, French Dressing 

Doughnuts. Coffee 

SATURDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Cold Veal, Sliced Thin 

Lettuce, French Dressing 

Hot Toast 

Caramel Junket 

Tea 



SUPPER 



Sar(tinea 

Thin Bread and Butter 

Olives 

Cheese. Crackers 



DINNER 

Cold Hamburg Roast 

Old Potatoes, Boiled and 

Mashed 

Asparagus, Butter Sauce 

Strawberries, Cream 

Half Cups of Coffee 



DINNER 

Fresh Salmon, Boiled, Egg 

Sauce 

Boiled Potatora 

Green Peas. Cucumbers 

^ Strawberries 

Baking-powder Biscuit 

Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

Two Slices from Fillet of 

Beef, Broiled 

Maitre d' Hotel Butter 

Boiled Asparagus, Hollan- 

daise Sauce 

New Potatoes 

Sugared Pineapple 

Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

Rump of Veal, Roasted, 

Brown Sauce 

Potatoes Cooked with Veal 

Green Peas. Lettuce. 

Strawberries. Custard Pie 

Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

Half a Blue Fish, Broiled 

Mashed Potatoes. Peas 

Cucumber, French Dressing 

Strawberries 

Half Cups of Coffee 



DINNER 

. Veal Souffle' 

White Sauce with Peas 

Scalloped Tomatoes (Canned) 

Individual Strawberry 

Shortcake 

Half Cups of Coffee 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN JULY 

Wholesome and palatable food is the first step in good morals, and is conducive to 
ability in business, skill in trade, and healthy tone in literature. — Richards. 



BREAKFAST 

WUd Strawberries 

Broiled Dried Beef 

Baking-powder Biscuit 

Coffee 



SUNDAY 

DINNER 

Sweetbreads, Sauted 

Green Peas 

Potatoes Hashed in Milk 

Lettuce, French Dressing 

Coffee Jelly, Whipped Cream 



SUPPER 



Bread, Blueberries. Milk 



BREAKFAST 

Grape Nuts, Cream 

Creamed Sweetbreads on 

Toast 

Graham Mufi&ns 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Hot Granose Flakes, Cream 

Asparagus Omelet 

Graham Muffins, Toasted 

Coffee 



MONDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Dried Beef Sandwich 

Raspberries, Cream 

Cup of Tea 

TUESDAY 

PICNIC DINNER 

Cold Boiled ERgs 

Sardines. New Pickles 

Bread and Butter Sandwiches 

Fruit Tarts 



DINNER 

Broiled Beef Tenderloin 

New Potatoes 

Asparagus on Toast 

Caramel Junket 

Coffee 



SUPPER 

Creamed Asparagus on Toast 

Broiled Dried Beef 

Cookies 

Tea 



BREAKFAST 

Scrambled Eggs 
Hot Buttered Toast 
Berries, Cream 
Cocoa 



BREAKFAST 

Boiled Rice 

Salmon in Curry Sauce 

Pop Overs 

Coffee 



WEDNESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Lettuce, Sardine-and-Egg Salad 

Bread and Butter 

Cookies. Tea 

THURSDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Sliced Tomatoes 

French Dressiag 

Hot Buttered Toast 

Tea 



DINNER 

Salmon Steak, Baked 

Potato Balls or Whole Potatoes 

New Peas. Cucumbers or 
Lettuce-and-Peppergrass Salad 
Raspberry or Lemon Sherbet 



DINNER 

Broiled Lamb Chops 

Potatoes Mashed with Tomato 

Stringless Beans 

Charlotte Russe 



BREAKFAST 

Poached Eggs on Toast, 

Cream Sauce 

Pop Overs, Reheated 

Berries 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 



Shredded Wheat Biscuit 

Raspberries, Cream 

Scrambled Eggs 

Yeast Rolls, Reheated 

Coffee 



FRIDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Hot Baked Potato, Butter 

Cold Lamb Chop 

Yeast Rolls 

Cup of Cocoa 

SATURDAY 

DINNER 

Boiled Breast of Lamb, 

^ Caper Sauce 

Souflfle'of Remnants, Sunday 

White Turnips 

Boiled Potatoes 

Tomatoes, French Dressing 

Prune Souffle 

Boiled Custard 



DINNER 

Fillets of Black Bass 

(Baked or Fried) 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Stringless Bean Salad 
Sugared Pineapple 



SUPPER 

Thin SHces of Cold Lamb 

Lettuce, French Dressing 

Bread and Butter 



Little Cakes 
Tea 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN AUGUST 

What and how great the virtue and the art 
To live on little with a cheerful heart. — Pope. 



BREAKFAST 

Muskmelon Cut in Halves 

Eggs Poached in Milk 

Dry Toast 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Gluten Grits, Cream 

Broiled Salt Mackerel 

Boiled Potatoes 

Sliced TomatoK 

Rye Flour Rolls 

Coffee 

BREAKFAST 

Berries 

French Omelet 

Saratoga Potatoea 

Rye Muffins, Toasted 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 



Muskmelon Cut in Halves 

Efried Beef in Cream Sauce 

White Hashed Potatoea 

Parker House Rolls 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Bartlett Peara 

Cold Veal Loaf 

Delmonico Potatoes 

Cereal Griddle Cakes 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Melon 
Corned Beef Hash 
Green Corn Fritters 
Bread and Butter 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Broiled Calf s Liver 

with Bacon 

White Hashed Potatoea 

Hot Baked Apple Sauce 

Coffee 



SUNDAY 

DINNER 

Broiled Lamb Chops 

Braised Lettuce on Toast 

Baked Potatoes 

Tomatoes, French Dressing 

Peach Ice Cream 

MONDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Dried Beef, Frizzled 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Bread and Butter _ 

Sliced Peaches. Cookies 

TUESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Hot Bacon Sandwich 

Cup of Cereal Coffee 

Stewed Pears 



WEDNESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Lettuce-and-Salmon Salad 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Sliced Peaches 



THURSDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Poached Egg on Toast 
Blanc Mange (left over), 
Sugar, Cream 

FRIDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Cold Corned Beef 
Baked Potato 
Sliced Tomato 

Bread and Butter 
Tea 

SATURDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Curried Sword Fish 

Yeast Rolls 

Butter 

Apple-and-Celery Salad 



SUPPER 

Lettuce-and-Egg Salad 

Bread and Butter 

Sliced Peaches 

Tea 



DINNER 

Hamburg Steak, Panned 

Potatoes Hashed in Milk 

Celery 

Individual Blackberry Short 

cakes 

Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

Slice of Salmon, Baked 

Egg Sauce 

Baked Potatoes 

Cucumbers, French Dressing 

Cornstarch Pudding, 

Red Raspberry Sauce 

Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

Cold Veal Loaf, Sliced Thin 

Boiled Potatoes, 

Hot Brown Sauce 

Mayonnaise of Lettuce-and- 

Celery Hearts 

Gelatine Blanc Mange, 

Sliced Peaches 

Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

Slice of Beef Tenderloin, 

Broiled 

Boiled Corn 

Creamed Celery 

Tomatoes, French Dressing 

Charlotte Russe 

DINNER 

Cream-of-Tomato Soup 

Broiled Sword Fish 

Boiled Beets 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Apple Tapioca Pudding, 

Cream 

Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

Cream-of-Celery Soup 

Braised Calf s Liver 

Turnips, Carrots, Potatoes 

Lettuce Salad 

Apricot Omelet 

Half Cups of Coffee 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN SEPTEMBER 

I am not one thing and my expenditure another. My expenditure is me. — Emerson. 

SUNDAY 

BREAKFAST DINNER (GUESTS) SUPPER 

Tip of Beef Loin, Roasted 



Grapes 

Green Corn Fritters 

Toast 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Boiled Rice, Thin Cream 
Broiled Bacon, Broiled 



Small Potatoes, Baked 
Toast. Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Cold Roast Beef in Gravy 

Mashed Potato Cakes, Baked 

Sliced Tomatoes 

Muffins 

Coffee 

BREAKFAST 

Grapes' 

Broiled Honeycomb Tripe 

Stewed Potatoes 

Cereal Griddle Cakes 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 



Muskmelon 
BroUed Bacon 

Delmonico Potatoes 
Doughnuts. Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Salt Codfish, Creamed 

Baked Potatoes 

Pop Overs 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Creamed Fish in Shell 

Poached Ei^g above Potato 

Border 

Cucumbers 

Bread and Butter 



Franeonia Potatoes 

Stewed Cucumbers 

Sweet Pickled Pears 

Peach Ice Cream 

Coffee 

MONDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Hot Baked Sweet Apples 

Bread and Butter 

Cocoa 



TUESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Corn on the Cob, Boiled 

Bread and Butter 

Sliced Peaches 

WEDNESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Lettuce, Date-and-AppIe Salad 
Bread and Butter 
Doughnut. Cocoa 

THURSDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Stewed Tomatoes 
Fresh Graham Bread and 

Butter 

Slice of Sponp;e Jelly Roll 

Cup of Cocoa 

FRIDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Cherae Toast 

Hot Apple Sauce 

Rolled-Oats-and-Fruit Cookira 

Tea 

SATURDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Fr^h Lima Beans, Stewed 

Bread and Butter. Tea 

Grapes 



Bread and Butter 

Sliced Peaches 

Tea 



DINNER 

Cream-of-Corn Soup 

Cold Roast Beef, Sliced Thin 

Mashed Potatoes 

Summer Squash 

Lettuce, Cheese, Toasted 

Crackers 

Coffee 

DINNER 
Fresh Fish and Oysters in 



Stewed Tomatoes and Corn 

Lettuce Salad 

Apple Pie. Coffee 

DINNER 
Beef Stew (Roast Beef Rem- 
nants) 
Celery-and-Apple Salad 
Sponge Jelly Roll 
Steamed Custard 
Ckjffee 

DINNER 

Macedoine of Fresh Fruit 

Calfs Liver. Hashed 

Baked Potatoes 

Green Corn Custard 

Sliced Tomatoes, French 

Dressing 

Cheese. Toasted Oackera 

Coffee 

DINNER 
Fillets of Fish Baked with 



Mashed Potato 
Baked Beets, Buttered 
Sliced Peaches, Cream 

Cake or Cookies 
Cbffee 



DINNER 



Oyster Stew. Pickles 
Peach Shortcake 



INEXPENSIVE MENUS FOR TWO, A WEEK IN OCTOBER 

"The food supply is not limited by any barrier but ignorance;" — "Ultimately the 
problem of cheap living controls the existence of the nation as well as of the 
individual." — Haig* 



BREAKFAST 

Broiled Bacon 

French Omelet 

Fried Mush 

Dry Toast 

Coffee 



SUNDAY 

DINNER 

Veal Steak, Breaded 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Buttered Beets 

Squash Pie 

Half Cups of Coffee 



SUPPER 

French Toast 
Apple Sauce 
Cream Cheese 
Cookies. Tea 



BREAKFAST 

Gluten Grits, Cream 

EgRs Shirred in Cream 

Rye-meal Muffins 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Egg-0-See, Cream 

Cold Nut Loaf, 

Buttered and Broiled 

Toasted Muffins 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Honeycomb Tripe 

Breaded and Fried 

White Hashed Potatoes 

Rolls, Reheated. 

Cereal Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Ralston Health Food, Cream 

Eggs Cooked in the Shell 

Doughnuts 

Stewed Prunes 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Smoked Halibut, Creamed 

Baked Potatoes 

New Pickles 

Spider Com Cake 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Grace Nuts, Cream 

Eggs Shirred with Tomato 

Bacon Rolls 

French Fried Potatoes 

Dry Toast. Cereal Coffee 



MONDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Cheese Toast 

Baked Apple 

Squash Pie 

Tea 

TUESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Ladj^nger Rolls 
Cocoa 
Grapes 

WEDNESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Hot Toasted Corn Flakes, 

Cream 

Doughnuts 

Cocoa 

THURSDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Hot Buttered Toast with 

Melted Cheese 

Apple Sauce 

Tea 



FRIDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Spider Corn Cake, Reheated 

Apple Sauce 

Cheese 

Cocoa 

SATURDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Yeast Muffins, Toasted 

Apple or Orange Marmalade 

Cocoa 



DINNER 

Nut Loaf 

Tomato Sauce 

Celery 

Steamed Custard 

Cookies 

Half Cups of Coffee 



DINNER 

Broiled Fresh Fish 

Celery-and-Lettuce Salad 

Poor Man's Rice Pudding 

Tea 



DINNER 

Hamburg Steak 

Baked Sweet Potatoes 

Creamed Celery Au Gratin 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 

Tea 



DINNER 

Half a Hot Roast Chicken, 

Giblet Sauce 

Cranberry Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes. Celery 

Lima Beans, Buttered 

Blanc Mange 

Coffee 



DINNER 

Fresh Fish Chowder 

Cole Slaw 

Mother's Apple Pie, Cream 



DINNER 

Half of Cold Roast Chicken 

Candied Sweet Potatoes 

Tomato Salad 

Bread Pudding 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN NOVEMBER 

The first requisite for strength and power of endurance is a satisfactory and suf- 
ficient supply of albumens. — Haig. 



BREAKFAST 

Hot Granose Flakes 

Hot Baked Apples, Cream 

Small Baked Potatoes, 

Broiled Bacon 

Boston Brown Bread, 

Toasted 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Grape Nuts, Cream 

Hashed Chicken on Toast 

(Baking-powder Biscuits) 

Apple Marmalade 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Oatmeal, Cream 

Fried Honeycomb Tripe 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 

Rye-meal Muffins 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Smoked Halibut, Creamed 

Small Potatoes, Baked 

Toasted Muffins (EngUsh) 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Hominy, Cream 

Broiled Bacon 

Fried Potatoes 

Hot Apple Sauce. Toast 

C^eal Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Grapes 

Salt Codfish Balls 

Home Made Pickles 

Fried Hominy, Caramel 

Syrup 

Cereal Coffee 

BREAKFAST 

EgK-0-See, Cream 

Fried Oysters 

Home Made Pickles 

Baking-powder Biscuit 

Doughnuts. Coffee 



SUNDAY 

DINNER 

Fricassee of Chicken (Half 

Chicken) 

Sweet Pickles 

Baking-powder Biscuits 

Squash. Celery 

Cottage Pudding 

Hard Sauce with Fruit Pur& 

Half Cups of Coffee 

MONDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Lettuce-and-Egg Salad 

Boston Brown Bread and 

Butter 

New Figs 

Tea 

TUESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Fresh English Muffins, 

Toasted 

Apple Marmalade. Cocoa 

Saited Pecan Nuts. Dates 

WEDNESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Creamed Halibut (reheated) 

on Toast 

Apple-and-Date Salad 

Bread and Butter 

Tea 

THURSDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Cheese Melted on Bread 

Apple Sauce 
Little Nut Cakes. Coffee 



FRIDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Egg Poached in Broth on 

Toast 

Celery 

Little Nut Cakes. Tea 

SATURDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Celery-and-Nut Salad 

Baking-powder Biscuit 

Reheated 

' Grapes 



SUPPER 



Cream Toast 

Honey Cookies 

Cocoa 



DINNER 

Hashed Round Steak, 

Mother's Style 

Boiled Potatoes 

Stewed Tomatoes 

Rice Pudding with Raisina 

Tea 

DINNER 

Half Chicken, Baked, 

Cranberry Sauce 

Scalloped Potatoes 

Baked Squash. Lettuce Salad 

Prune Jelly, Whipped Cream 

Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

Breaded Lamb Chops, Fried 

Tomato Sauce 

White Hashed Potatoes 

Celery 

Baked Bananas, Sultana 

Sauce 

Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 
Roast Loin of Lamb (boned) 
(Chops for Wednesday, re- 
moved) 
Franconia Potatoes. Squash 
Banana Fritters, Jelly Sauce 
Bread Pudding, Meringue 
Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

Cream-of-Celery Soup 

Fried Pickerel, Tomato 

Sauce 

Mashed Potatoes 

French Turnips 

Eclairs. Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

(3old Roast Loin of Lamb 

Broiled Apples 

Mashed Potatoes. Spinach 

Caramel Junket 

Little Nut Cakes 

Half Cups of Coffee 



MENUS FOR A FAMILY OF TWO, A WEEK IN DECEMBER 

" Permanent improvements in the standard of life depend rather upon wise spend- 
ing than upon large earnings." 



BREAKFAST 



Baltimore Samp, Cream 

Cold Boiled Ham 

White Hashed Potatoes 

Hot Buttered Toast. Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Cold Boiled Ham, Mustard 

Sweet Potatoes, Reheated 

Corn Meal Muffins 

Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Cereal, Cream 

Sliced Ham Fritters 

Hot Apple Sauce 

Doughnuts 

Coffee 

BREAKFAST 

Chopped Ham 

Scrambled with Eggs 

Sliced Potatoes, Cooked in 

MUk 

Yeast Rolls, Reheated 

Cereal Coffee 



BREAKFAST 



Cereal, Cream 

Ham Timbales, Cream Sauce 

Small Baked Potatoes 

Buttered Toast Coffee 



BREAKFAST 



Cereal, Cream 

Baked Beans, Reheated 

Baking Powder Biscuit 

.Coffee 



BREAKFAST 

Cereal, Cream 

Broiled Honeycomb Tripe 

Small Potatoes, Baked 

Rye-meal Muffins 
Apple Ginger. Coffee 



SUNDAY 

DINNER 
Chicken Breast en Casserole 

Fruit Jelly 
Sweet Potatoes, Southern 

Style 

Boiled Onions. Celery 

Hearts 

Chestnut Parfait 

Oatmeal Fruit Cookies 

Small Cups of Coffee 

MONDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Hot Baltimore Samp 

Maple Syrup, Cream 

Piece of Cranberry Pie 

Tea 

TUESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Creamed Halibut au gratin 
Baked Potato 
Yeast RoUs 

WEDNESDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 



Remnants of Chicken Pie, 

Reheated 

Cold Rice Pudding 

Tea 

THURSDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Baked Bean Salad 
Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Grapes 

FRIDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 
Date, Apple and Lettuce 

Salad 

Entire Wheat Bread with 

Butter 

Cheese 

Doughnuts 

Cereal Coffee 

SATURDAY 

LUNCHEON FOR ONE 

Rye-meal Muffins, Toasted 

Orange Marmalade 

Cream Cheese 

Doughnuts 

Cocoa 



SUPPER 



Toasted Crackers, Buttered 
Oatmeal Fruit Cookies 

Cocoa 
Toasted Marshmallows 



DINNER 

Slice of Halibut, Boiled 

Drawn Butter Sauce 

Boiled Potatoes 

Lettuce. French Dressing 

Cranberry Pie 

Small Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

Chicken Pie 

Cranberry Sauce 

Creamed Celery 

Rice Pudding 

Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

Cream-of-Celery Soup 

Boston Baked Beans, with 

Pork 

Spinach 

Cottage Pudding, Sultana 

Sauce 

Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

Chicken Legs and Wings, 

Sauted 

Mashed Potato 

Spinach-and-Egg Salad 

Apples Pralin^e. Cream 

Cookies 

Half Cups of Coffee 

DINNER 

Fried Oysters, Cole Slaw 
Baking Powder Biscuit, Re- 
heated 
Date Whip, Boiled Custard 
Half Cups of Coffee 



DINNER 

Boiled Lamb. Caper Sauce 

Boiled Turnips 

Boiled Potatoes 

Apple' Pie, Cream 

Half Cups of Coffee 



THANKSGIVING DINNER 



I 

Roast Chicketi, Bread Stuff- 
ing 
Stewed Cranberries 
Oysters-and-Celery au gratin 

in Shells 
Sweet Potato^ en Casserole 

Lettuce Salad 
Hot Apple Turnovers (Re- 
heated) 
Plain Charlotte Russe 
Nuts. Raisins, Coffee 



II 

Chicken-and-Tomato Bouillon 

Roast Duck, Potato-and- 

Pecan Nut Dressing. Onions 

Apples Cooked Whole in Syrup 

Bits of Currant Jelly Above 

Celery Salad 
Golden Parfait with French 

Fruit 
Lady Appl^. Maple Fond- 
ant Bonbons 
Half Cups of Coffee 



CHRISTMAS DINNER 



I 

Oyster Soup, Gherkins 

Roast Duck 

Apple-and-Celery Salad 

Potatoes, Scalloped, with 

Grated Onion. Squash 

Plum Puddin?, Hard Sauce 

Liquid Sauce 

Tangerine Oranges. Grapes 

Coffee 



II 

Grapefruit Cocktail 

Tip of Beef Sirloin, Roasted 

Parboiled Potatoes Cooked 

with the Meat 

Baked Bananas, Sultana 

Sauce 
Cress or Endive, French 



Caramel Almond Bavariose 
Fondant Peppermints 
Half Cups of Coffee 



SUNDAY DINNER (Winter) 



Delicate Celep^ Soup 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef, 

Tomato Sauce 

Potatoes Anna 

Baked Squash 

Canned Striuglass Beans 

French Dreasin'^r with Onion 

Juif^e 

Mock Mince Pie or 

Sliced Fias in Jelly 

Ckjffee 



SUNDAY DINNER (Summer) 

Broiled Lamb Chops 

Melting Potatoes 

Spinach Greens 

Caramel Ice Cream (Junket) 

Strawberries 

Sponge Cake 

SUNDAY NIGHT TEA 

(Winter, Guests) 
Creamed Ovsters (chafing 

dish) 
Olives. Salted Peanuts 

German Apple Cup 

White Cake, Caramel Nut 

Frosting 

CJoffee 



SUNDAY NIGHT TEA 



(Summer, Guests) 
Chicken, Green Pea-and-Cu- 

cumber Salad 
Bread-and-Olive Sandwiches 
or Bread and Butter Sand- 
wiches 
Raspberry Sherbet 
Tea 



SUNDAY DINNER 

(Spring Guests) 

Lamb and Tomato Soup 

Broiled Sweetbreads 

Maitre d' Hotel Butter 

Asparagus Cooked as Peas 

Lettuce, French Dressing 

Parker House Rolls, (Reheated) 

Vanilla Ice Cream 

Maple Syrup 
Half Cups of Coffee 



SUNDAY DINNER 
(Autumn Guests) 

Muskmelons 

Chicken en Casserole 

Sweet Pickle Jelly 

Kaiser Rolls 

Tomatoes Stuffed with 

Mayonnaise of Celery 

Sliced Peaches. Suear, (>eam 

Wafer Jumbles 



Index 



Air, 3 

Almond Crisps, 334 

Nougatines, 244 
Almonds, Custard Renversee 

with, 354 
Apple Butter, 263 
Cup, German, 20g 
Dumpling, Baked, 361 
Jelly, 260 
with Blackberries, 260 
Mint, 261 
Raspberries, 260 
Marmalade, 261 
Pie, 311 
English, 312 
with Meringue, 313 
Sauce, Quick, 219 

Strained, 219 
Tarts, 321 

Triangles, Hot. 283 
Apples, Baked with Dates, 221 
Broiled with Ham, 125 
Pralinee, 221 
Apricot Parfait, 370 
Arlington Meal Muffins, 278 
Asparagus, 174 
Canned, 268 
as Peas, 174 
with Poached Eggs, 71 
Salad, 202 

Bacon, Broiled, 99 
Fried in Deep Fat, 127 
Sandwiches, 307 
with String Beans, 172 

Baking Powder Biscuit, 280 
with Sour Milk, etc, 275 



Banana Parfait, 369 

Puree for Ice Cream, 371 

Whip, 225 
Bananas, Baked, Sultana 

Sauce, 225 
Bar-le-duc Currants, etc., 265 
Bass, Fillets of, 81, 83 
Batter and Dough, 273 
Bavarian Cream, Caramel, 

349 

Ginger, 348 

Marmalade, 348 
Beans, Boston Baked, 181 

Reheated, 127 

Sandwich, 183 

Dried Lima, 181 

Green Shell, 171 

Lima, Baked, 182 

String, 172 

with Bacon, 172 
Beef Balls with Spaghetti, 119 

Broth, Standard, 139 

Cakes, Broiled, 96 
Pan-broiled, 97 

Corned, Boiled, 112 

Hash, 123 

Tea, 36 
Recipe for, 37 

Tenderloin, Roast, 106 
Beets, 176 

Pickled, 176 
Biscuit, Baking Powder, 280 

Entire Wheat, 300 

Rye Meal, 303 

Squash, 301 

and Roll Dough, Shaping, 
293 



398 



Index 



Biscuits D'Epernay, 328 
Black Bass, Fillets of, etc., 8l 

Rolled, 83 
Blackberry Roly Poly, 281 
Blanquette of Veal, 119 
Blueberry Betty, 359 

Pie, 313 

Tea Cakes, 283 
Bonbons, Chocolate Dipped, 

243 
Coffee, 240 

Molding in Starch, 242 
Other, 241 
Pistachio, 241 
Bouillon, Chicken and To- 
mato, 138 
Bread, Entire Wheat, 296 
Graham, 299 
Griddle Cakes, 285 
One Loaf, 295-296 
Pulled, 149 
Rye, 298 
Soft Corn, 279 
Sticks, 306 
Storing, 29s 

Stuffing for Roast Chicken, 
118 
Fish, etc., 82 
Bread Dough, Kneading, 292 
Mixing, 291 
Shaping, 293 
Bread Making, Ingredients 
for, 286 
Kinds of Flour for, 290 
Utensils for, 290 
Bread Pudding, Viennoise, 

357 
Bread and Rolls, Baking, 294 

Glazing, 294 
Breads, Quick, 272 

Baking Powder with Sour 

Milk, etc., 275 
General Rule for, 275 
How to Bake, 276 
Add Eggs, 276 
Shortening, 276 
Liquid Used in, 274 
Method of Combining Ma- 
terials in, 275 



Proportions of Baking Pow- 
der and Flour, 274 
Salt and Flour, 274 
Soda and Cream of Tar- 
tar, 274 
Breakfast Dish, Late Sum- 
mer, 71 
Breast of Fowl en Casserole, 

114 
Brook Trout, Sauted, 78 
Broth, Fish, for Soup, etc., 

140 
Broth, Standard Beef, 139 
Brown Sauce, 147 
Buns, Glazed Currant, 298 
Butter, 19s 
Maitre D'Hotel, 196 
Red Pepper, 86 
Butter Sauce, Drawn, 145 

Cabbage Salad, 201 
Cake, Angel, 328 

Baking, 327 

Burnt Sugar, 330 

Coffee, 302 

Cream Sponge, 329 

How Lightened, 322 

Ingredients Used in, 323 

Mixing of Butter, 324 

Mixing of Sponge, 326 

Moist Chocolate, 331 

Nut and Raisin, 331 

Proportions of Ingredients, 
324 

Qualities of Good, 322 

Quick Sponge, 329 

White Layer, 330 

White Nut, 330 

Sponge, 328 
Cakes, Cereal Griddle, 284 

Corn Meal Griddle, 284 

Green Corn, 285 

Little Gold, 332 

Plain Ginger, 332 

Roxbury, 332 

Tiny Cream, 339 
Calf's Liver, Hashed, 114 
Candies Cooked to High De- 
gree, 24s 



Index 



399 



Canned Asparagus, 268 

Berry and Currant Juices, 
25s 

Corn, 266 

Cranberries, 254 

Grape Juice, 255 

Peaches or Pears, 256 

Peas, 267 

Pineapple, 257 

Rhubarb, 255 

Strawberries or Raspberries, 
256 

String Beans, 267 

Tomatoes, 268 

Vegetables, 265 
New Way, 269 
Caper Sauce, 146 
Caramel Junket, 44 

Syrup, 230 
Caramels, Best, 235 

Choice, 236 

Good Walnut, 236 

Maple, 235 
Carbon, 3 
Carbon Dioxide, 3 
Carbohydrates, 9 
Casserole, Breast of Fowl en, 
114 

Fresh Fish en, 88 

Sirloin Steak en, loi 

Spanish Veal Balls en, 113 
Celery, Creamed, 170 

Hollandaise Style, 169 

Soup, Delicate, 151 
Cellulose, 10 
Cereal Griddle Cakes, 284 

with Cheese, 51 
Cereals, Breakfast, 164 

Method of Cooking, 165 
Charlotte Russe, Grape Juice, 

347 
Individual, 346 
Raspberry, 346 
Cheese, 45 
with Cereal, 51 

Creamed Macaroni, 52 
Macaroni Baked with, 51 
Omelet, 47 
Ramequins, 50 



with Rice and Tomato, 53 

Sandwiches (hot), 50 

and Herring Sandwiches, 
308 

Savory, 47 

Sticks, 47 

Timbales, 48 

Toast with Bacon, 49 

with Toasted Wafers, 46 
Chicken Bechamel in Cases, 
126 

Breast in Jelly, 134 

Broiled, 99 

Broth, 133 

Chopped, in Jelly, 135 

Creamed, 125 

Pie, 116 

Roast, 117 
Chicken and Tomato Bouillon, 

138 
Chicken and Tomato Soup, 

137 
Chocolate and Cocoa, 35 
Chocolate Cream Pie, 336 

Custard with Cream, 353 

Dipped Bonbons, 243 
Nuts, etc., 244 

Frosting, Boiled, 248 
Confectioners, 250 

Ice Cream, 366 

Junket, 44 

Pudding, Steamed, 360 

Sauce for Ice Cream, 372 

Souffle, 357 

Two Cups of, 36 
Chops, Lamb, Broiled, 96 
Planked, loi 

Mutton, Pan-broiled, 97 
Chowder, Fresh Fish, 92 
Cocoa and Chocolate, 35 
Codfish, Broiled, Fresh, 85 

Creamed, Salt, 89 
Coffee, 32 

Boiled, 34 

Bonbons, 240 

Cake, 302 

Filtered, 34 

Jelly, 136 

Making, 32 



400 



Index 



Parfait, 368 
Combustion, 3 
Cookies, Honey Drop, 336 

Oat, Fruit and Nut, 335 

Orange, 337 

Sour Cream, 338 
Cooking, List of Supplies 
Needed, 24 

Milk, 40 

Preparation of Fish for, 73 
Meat for, 95 

Principal Methods, 20 

Puffy Omelet on Gas 
Range, 70 

Tender Meat, 95 

Less Tender Meat, 109 
Corn, Boiled, 177 

Bread, Soft, 279 

Chowder, 180 

Canned, 266 

Creamed, etc., 177 

Creole Style, 178 

Custard, 178, 179 

Fritters, 179 

Green, 177 

(Green) Griddle Cakes, 285 

Soup, Cream of, 150 
Corn meal Griddle Cakes, 284 

Muffins, 278 
Delicate, 279 
Corned Beef, Boiled, 112 

Hash, 123 
Cornstarch Pudding, 352 
Cottage Pie, 127 
Crackers, Toasted, 149 
Cranberries, Canned, 254 
Cranberry Filling, 319 

Pie, 319 
Cream, 194 

Eggs Poached in, 6s 

Filling, English, 339 

Fish Baked in, 84 

Pie, Sour, 317 

Soups, 148 

St. Honore, 320 

to Thicken Thin, 195 
Cream Cheese with Wafers, 

46 
Creamed Chicken, 125 



Codfish, Salt, 89 

Ham with Eggs, 124 

Fish in Shells, 85 

Macaroni with Cheese, 52 
Creole Spaghetti, 48 

Hash, 123 
Crisps, Almond, 334 
Croquettes, Macaroni, 54 

Thick Sauce for, 147 
Croutons for Soup, 149 
Crullers, 340 
Cucumbers to Serve with Fish, 

82 
Currant Jelly, 265 

Sauce, 356 
Currants, Bar-le-duc, 265 
Custard, Boiled, No. i, 351 

in Cups, 351 

Chocolate, etc., 353 

Frozen, 366 

Green Corn, 178, 179 

Pie, 317 

Renversee, 354 

Rice Pudding, 356 

Steamed, 355 
Custards, etc., 349 

Date Whip, 355 
Dates, 218 

Baked in Apples, 221 
Delmonico Pudding with 

Peaches, etc., 352 
Desserts, Frozen, 362 
Dextrin, 10 

Digestibility of Fats and Oils, 
188 

Fruit, 213 
Digestion of Fats, 187 

Pastry, etc., 188 
Dough, Soft or Stiff, 273 
Doughnuts, Yeast, 340 
Drawn Butter Sauce, 145 
Dressing, Cooked Salad, 198 

French, 197 

Mayonnaise, 198 
Duck, Wild, Roasted, io8 
Dumpling, Baked Apple, 361 
Dumplings, Baked with Pot 
Pie, 121 



Index 



401 



Egg, How to tell the Age of 

an, 60 
Egg Sauce, 146 
Eggs, 56 
Beating, 62 
Cooking, 63 
Cooked in Shell, 63 
Composition of, 59 
How to Break, 61 

Separate, 61 
Poached with Asparagus, 
71 
in Cream, 65 
with Creamed Ham, 124 
in Fat or Fried, 65 
on Toast, 64 

with Broiled Tomatoes, 
etc., 71 
with Spinach Puree, 72 
Scrambled, Reformed Style, 
66 
with Variations, 67 
Emergency Soup, 136 
English Cream Filling, 339 

Tea Cakes, 337 
Extractives, 8 

Fat, Care of, 193 

How to Test for Frying, 

190 
Testing for Frying, "jt 
Fats, 12 
Digestion of, 187 
Effect of Heat on, 189 
Forms of, Used as Food, 

187 
Trying out and Clarifying, 

192 
Use of in Body, 186 
Fats and Oils, Digestibility 
of, 188 
as Preservatives, 193 
Fig Whip, 355 
Figs, Dried, 220 
Fillets of Black Bass Rolled, 

83 
Black Bass, Stuffed, 81 
Fish, Fried, 76 
Finnan Haddie, Boiled, 87 



Delmonico Style, 87 
Fish, 73 

Baked in Cream or milk, 84 

Black Bass, Fillets of, 81, 
83 

Bluefish, Broiled, 74 

Broiled, 74 

Brook Trout, Sauted, 78 

en Casserole, 88 

Chowder, Fresh, 92 

Cod, Broiled, 85 
Creamed, 89 

Creamed, in Shells, etc., 85 

Fried in Batter, "jj 

Fried Fillets of, 76 

Halibut, etc., Broiled, 75 

Pickerel, Fried, 80 

Preparation for Cooking, 73 

Salmon, Baked, 86 

Boiled, 79 

Sauted, TJ 
Fish Balls, Fresh, 89 
Fondant, 239 

with Glucose, 241 
Food, A Talk on, i 

Elements Found in, 5 

Experience First Teacher, 2 

Forms of Fat Used as, 187 

Principles, 5 
Fowl en Casserole, Breast of, 
114 

Sauted, IIS 
French Dressing, 197 

Omelet, 67 
Fritters, Parsnip, 184 
Frosting, Boiled, 247 

Boiled Chocolate, 248 

Caramel Marshmallow, 249 

Confectioner's Caramel, 250 

Confectioner's Chocolate, 250 

Divinity, 249 

with Gelatine, 250 

Marshmallow, 257 

Nut Caramel, 248 
Frozen Desserts, 362 

Packing a Mold with, 364 
Fruit, 212 

Composition and Food 
Value, 212 



402 



Index 



Digestibility of, 213 

Effect of Cooking, 215 

Flavor and Food, 214 

Fudge, 232 

Glace, 246 

Preparation for Canning, 

254 
Preparation for Serving, 

216 
Dates, 218 

Grapefruit with Bar-le-duc, 
217 
and Oranges, 216 
Midwinter Macedoine, 218 
Peaches, Sliced, 217 
Pineapple, 217 
Fruit and Nut Rolls, 280 
Frying, Preparation of Food 
for, 191 
Testing Fat for, 76 
Fudge, Divinity, 234 
Fruit, 232 
Other Varieties, 233 

Gas Meter, To Read, 17 
Gas Range for Baking, 17 

To Light, 16 

To Manage, 15 

Parts of, 14 

To Use Economically, 16 
Gelatine; Commercial, 343 

How to Use, 343 
» Gelatinoids, 8 
Giblet Sauce, 118 
Glace Fruits, etc., 246 
Glazed Currant Buns, 298 
Glucose, Fondant with, 241 
Glycogen, 10 
Graham Bread, 299 

Dark Colored, 300 

Muffins, 278 

Pudding, Steamed, 359 
Grapefruit Jelly, 226 

Marmalade, 261 

Serving, 216, 217 

Sherbet, 368 
Grape Juice, Canned, 255 
Griddle Cakes, Bread, 285 

Cereal, 284 



Corn Meal, 284 
Green Corn, 285 
Plain, 28s 

Halibut, Broiled, 75 

Sauted, 77 
Ham, Creamed, with Eggs, 
124 
Rechaufee, with Broiled Ap- 
ples, 125 
Ham and Macaroni Timbales, 

124 
Hamburg Roast, 107 
Hamburg Steak, Plain, 98 

a la Tartare, 97 
Hash, Corned Beef, 123 

Creole Style, 123 
Hashed Calf's Liver, 114 

Lamb with Rice, etc.', 123 
Herring and Cheese Sand- 
wiches, 308 
Hollandaise Sauce, Mock, 146 
Honeycomb Tripe, Broiled, 

104 
Honey Drop Cookies, 336 
How to Stir, Beat, Fold In- 
gredients, 61 

Ice Cream, Caramel, 366 
Chocolate, 366 
with Chocolate Sauce, 372 
Frozen Custard, 366 
with Maple Syrup, 371 
Peach, 367 
Peach Cup, 367 
Strawberry, 367 
Vanilla, Junket, 365 
Philadelphia, 365 

Jam, Blackberry, 264 

Jelly, Apple, Currant, etc., 260 

Apple and Blackberry, 260 
Mint, 261 
Raspberry, 260 

Caramel, 344 

Chicken Breast in, 134 

Chopped Chicken in, 135 

Coffee, 136 

Covering, 259 



Index 



403 



Cranberry, 220 

Figs in Sherry Wine, 227 

Grapefruit, 226 

Lemon, 222 

Making, 257 

Orange, 222 

Orange Sections in, 223 

Prune, 223 

Sweet Pickle, 227 

Sauce, Currant, 356 
Jumbles, Wafer, 333 
Junket, 43 

Caramel, 44 

Chocolate, 44 

Ice Cream, 365 

Plain with Whipped Cream, 
43 

Kaiser Semmeln, 304 

Lady-Finger Rolls, 305 
Lamb, Boiled, 113 

Chops, Broiled, 96 

Chops, Planked, loi 

Hashed with Rice, etc., 123 

Neck and Shoulder of, 112 
Rechaufee, Creole, 128 
Lamb-and-Tomato Soup, 138 
Lemon Jelly, 222 

Pie, 316 
Lettuce Salad, 200 
List of Supplies Needed in 
Cooking, 24 

Utensils and Furnishings 
for Dining Room, 23 
Kitchen and Pantry, 20 
Liver, Calf's, Hashed, 114 

Macaroons, Oatmeal, 338 

Peanut, 334 
Macaroni, 167 

Baked with Cheese, 51 

(or Spaghetti) with Beef 
Balls, 119 

Creamed and Au Gratin, 52 

Croquettes, S4 

Italian Style, 53 
Macaroni-and-Ham Timbales, 
124 



Macedoine of Midwinter 

Fruit, 218 
Mackerel, Salt, Cooked in 

Milk, 89 
Maitre d'Hotel Butter, 196 
Marmalade, Apple, 262 

Grapefruit, 261 

Orange, 262 

Peach, 262 

Tomato, 263 
Marshmallow ■ Icing, 251 

Marguerites, 337 

Strawberry Dessert, 345 
Mayonnaise Dressing, 198 
Measures, Table of, 19 
Measures and Weights, Com- 
parisons of, 19 
Measurements, 19 
Meat, 93 

Cooking Tender, 95 

Less Tender, Cooking, 109 

Less Tender, Cuts of, no 

for One Mince Pie, 316 

to Prepare for Cooking, 95 
Meats, Broiling Cooked, 103 

Roast, 104 
Meringue, 313 

Meringues, Canned Pear, 355 
Milk, Care of, 42 

Cooking, 40 

Sour, 43 
Mineral Matter, 13 
Mock Mince Pie, 315 
Molasses Taffy, 246 
Mold, Orange Marmalade, 

347 
Mousse, Fish, 90 
Muffins, Blueberry, 283 
Corn Meal, 278 
Delicate Corn Meal, 279 
Rye Meal, 277 
Mutton Chops, Pan Broiled, 
97 

Neck and Shoulder of Lamb, 

112 
Nitrogen, 4 

Noisette Sandwiches, 308 
Nougat, Spanish, 234 



404 



Index 



Nougatines, Almond, 244 
Nut Caramel Frosting, 248 
Nut-and-Fruit Rolls, 280 
Nut, Fruit-and-Oat Cookies, 

32s 
Nuts, 214 
Almond Nougatines, 244 
Chocolate Dipped, 244 
Peanut Brittle, 245 
Nutrient Ratio, 13 
Nutrition, Under and Over, 
376 

Oatmeal Macaroons, 338 
Oil, Olive, Use of, 197 
Olive Sandwiches, 307 
Omelet, Cheese, 47 

French, 67 

General Varieties of, &j 

Puffy, 68 

Puffy, Cooking on Gas 
Range, 70 
with Left Overs, 69 
Omelets, 58 
Onions, 185 
Orange Cookies, 337 

Jelly, 222 

Marmalade, 262 
Bavarian Cream, 348 
Mold, 347 

Pudding, Steamed, 360 

Sauce, 356 

Sabayon Sauce, 357 

Sections in Jelly, 223 

Sherbet, Blood, 368 
Oranges, Sliced, 218 
Oriental Preserve, 263 
Oyster Soup, Cream of, 152 

Stew, 153 

Packing a Mold, 364 
Pan-Broiled Beef Cakes, 97 

Mutton Chops, 97 
Parfait, Banana, 369 

Canned Apricot, 370 

Coffee, 368 

Golden, with Fruit, 370 

Prune, 369 
Parker House Rolls, 297 



Parsnip Fritters, 184 
Parsnips, Boiled, 1S3" 

Boiled and Sauted, 183 
Pastry for One Pie, 310 

Flaky, 310 

Why Unhealthful, 310 
Peach Cup, 367 

Ice Cream, 367 
Marmalade, 262 

Sherbet, 368 

Tarts, 319 
Peaches, Evaporated, 220 
Peaches or Pears Canned, 256 
Peanut Brittle, 245 

Macaroons, 334 
Pear Meringues, 355 
Pears, Gingered, 265 
Peas, Canned, 267 

Creamed, 173 

Green, 173 
Pecan Pralines, 236 
Pepper and Onion Salad, 201 
Philadelphia Relish, 83 
PiccalilH, 271 
Pickerel, Fried, 80 
Pickles, 270 

Small Gherkin, 270 
Pie, Apple, 311 

English Apple, 312 

Apple with Meringue, 313 

Blueberry, 313 

Chicken for Two, 116 

Chocolate Cream, 336 

Cottage, 127 

Cranberry, Open, 319 

Custard, 317 

Lemon, 316 

Mince Meat for One, 316 

Mock Mince, 316 

Pineapple, Canned, 319 

Rhubarb, 314, 315 

Sour Cream, 317 

Squash, 318 

Squash, Delaware, 318 

Veal Pot, 121 
Pineapple, Canned, 257 

Toast, Canned, 362 
Planked Lamb Chops, loi 
Popcorn Balls, 245 



Index 



405 



Pop Overs, 277 

Potato Border, Creamed Fish, 

etc., 85 
Potato Cakes, Mashed, 160 

Patty Cases, 126 
Potatoes, American Style, 163 

Amia, 161 

Au Gratin, 162 

Baked, 160 

Boiled, 159 

Hashed, in Ramequins, 161 

Lyonnaise, 1O3 

Mashed, 160 

Melting, 159 

in Milk, 162 

Physical Properties, 7 

Preparation for Boiling, 159 

Saratoga, 164 

Sauted, 162 

Sweet, Boiled, etc., 167 

Sweet, Broiled, 168 
Pralines, Pecan, 236 
Preserve, Oriental, 263 
Pretzels, T. 333 
Principles, Food, S 
Proteids, 6 
Protein, 9 
Prune Jelly, 223 

Parfait, 369 

Pudding, Steamed, 360 
Whip with Custard, 354 35S 
Prune-and-Nut Salad, 207 
Prunes, Stewed, 219 

Stuffed with Cheese, 224 
Puffy Omelet, 68 

Cooking on Gas Range, 70 

with Left Overs, 69 
Pudding, Blueberry Betty, 359 

Bread, Viennoise, 357 

Cornstarch, 352 

Custard Rice, 356 

Delmonico with Peaches, 35; 

Scalloped Rhubarb, 358 

Steamed Chocolate, 360 
Graham, 359 
Orange, 360 
Prune, 360 
Pulled Bread, 149 
Puree, Banana, 371 



Ramequins, Cheese, 50 

Eggs with Cream in, 71 

Hashed Potato in, 161 
Raspberries, Canned, 256 
Raspberry Jelly with Apples, 

260 
Rechaufee of Ham, Broiled 
Apples, 125 

Lamb, Creole Style, 128 
Red Pepper Butter, 86 
Relish, Philadelphia, 83 
Rhubarb, Canned, 255 

Pie, 314, 315 

Scalloped, etc., 358 
Rice with Cheese, etc., 53 

Cooked in ' Double Boiler, 
166 
Southern Style, 166 

Dainty, 345 

Molded, 344 

Pudding, Custard, 356 
Rizzoletti, 128 
Roast Beef Tenderloin, 106 

Chicken, 117 

Duck, Wild, 108 

Hamburg, 107 

Loin, Tip of, 108 

Meats, 104 
Roe, Fish, Baked, eta, 90 
Rolls, Fruit and Nut, 280 

Lady Finger, 305 

Parker House, 297 
Roly Poly, Blackberry, 281 
Rye Meal Biscuit, 303 

Muffins, 277 

Sabayon Sauce, Orange, 357 
Salad, Apple-and-Celery, 208 

Apple Cup, German, 209 

Asparagus, 202 

Astoria, Revised, 210 

Bean, Baked, 203 
Lima, 203 
String, 203 

Beets, Stuffed, 206 

Cabbage, 201 

Chicken, 205 

Dressing, Cooked, 198 

Egg, 205 



406 



Index 



Fleur-de-Lis, .210 
Lettuce, 200 
Orange-and^Date, 208 
Pepper-and-Onion, 201 
Plants, Cleansing and Care, 

199 

Potato, 204 
French Style, 206 

Prune-and- Pecan Nut, 207 

Rutabaga Turnip, 202 

Tomato, 201 

Tomato-and-Cheese Ball, 
207 

Tomato Jelly, 205 
Sally Lunn, 278 
Salmon, Slice of. Boiled, 79 

Steak, Baked, 86 
Sandwiches, 307 

Bacon, 307 

Cheese, Hot, 50 

Cheese-and-Herring, 308 

Noisette, 308 

Olive, 307 

Strawberry, 224 
Sauce, Apple, Quick, 219 

Strained, 219 

Brown, 147 

Caper, 146 

Currant Jelly, 356 

Drawn Butter, 145 

Egg, 146 

Frothy, 358 

Giblet, 118 

How to Add Yolks to, T45 

for Ice Cream, 371 

Mock Hollandaise, 146 

Orange, 356 

Orange Sabayon, 357 

Peach, Evaporated, 220 

Prune, Stewed, 219 

Sultana, 225, 361 

Thick for Croquettes. I47 

Thin for Cream Soup, 148 

Tomato, 80 

Wine, 356 
Sauces, Proportions of Ingre- 
dients, 143 

Regarding, 142 

Theory of Making, 144 



Sauted Fowl, 115 
Savory Cheese, 47 
Scalloped Rhubarb with Me- 
ringue, 358 
Scrambled Eggs, Reformed 
Style, 66 

with Variations, 67 
Sermonet, A, 373 
Shells, Creamed Fish in, 85 
Sherbet, Blood Orange, 368 

Grapefruit, 368 

Peach, 368 
Shortcake, Strawberry, 282 
Souffle, Chocolate, 357 
Soup, Celery, Delicate, iji 

Chicken-and-Tomato, 137 

Cream of Chicken, 152 

Cream of Corn, 150 

Cream of Oyster, r52 

Cream of Pea, 150 

Cream of Spinach, 152 

Cream of String Bean, 152 

Cream of Tomato, 151 

Emergency, 136 

Lamb-and-Tomato, 138 

Mitounee, 137 
Soups, Cream, 148 
Soups I, 2, 3, 4, S, 133 
Sour Cream Pie, 317 
Spaghetti Creole, 48 
Spanish Veal Balls en Cas- 
serole, 113 
Spinach, 170 

Chopped, 171 

Cream of, 152 

Left Over, 171 

Puree, Eggs with, ^2 
Squash, 168 

Baked, 169 

Biscuit, 301 

Pie, 318 

Steamed, 169 
St. Honore Cream, 320 
Starch, 9 

Molding Centers in, 240 
Steak, Broiled Sirloin, 96 

Hamburg Plain, 98 

a la Tartare, 97 

Sirloin, en Casserole. lOl 



Index 



407 



Stock, Chicken Soup, 133 

Soup, from Roasts of Beef 

or Lamb, 134 

Fowl or Veal, 132 

Strawberries, Canned, 256 

Strawberries, Sunshine, 264 

Strawberry Ice Cream, 367 

Sandwiches, 224 

Shortcake, 282 

Tarts, 320 
Strawberry - and Marshmal- 

low Dessert, 345 
String Beans, Canned, 267 
Stuffing, Bread, 82, 118 
Succotash, 180 
Sugar, II, 229 

Boiling of, 229 

Boiling, Degrees in, 230 
Supplies Needed in Cooking, 

List of, 24 
Sweetbreads, Broiled, 104 
Syrup, Caramel, 230 

Table of Comparisons, 19 

Measures, 19 
Taffy, Molasses, 246 
Tarts, Apple, 321 

Peach, 319 

St. Honore, Strawberry, 320' 
Tea, Beef, 36 

Beef, Recipe for, 37 

Cake, Blueberry, 283 

Cakes, English, 337 

Composition of, 31 

Pretzels, 333 

Steeping the, 32 
Tea Ball and Tea Pot, 31 
Tenderloin, Roast Beef, 106 
Timbales, Cheese, 48 

Ham and Macaroni, 124 
Tip of the Loin Roast, 108 
Toast, 306 

Canned Pineapple, 362 

Cheese, 49 

Poached Eggs on, 64 
Tomato Marmalade, 263 

Rice with Cheese and, 53 

Salad, 201 

Sauce, 80 



Tomatoes Broiled, 175 

Canned, 268 

Stewed, 175 

Stewed with Com, 175 
Triangles, Hot Apple, 283 
Tripe, Broiled, Honeycomb, 

104 
Turkish Paste, Mint, 238 

Orange, 237 

Raspberry, 238 
Turnip Salad, Rutabaga, 202 
Turnips, Boiled, 184 

Boiled and Creamed, 185 

Utensils for Beating Eges, 63 
Dining Room, 23 
Kitchen, 20 

Veal Balls en Casserole, Span- 
ish, 113 
Veal, Blanquette of, 119 

Pot Pie, Baked Dumplings, 
121 
Vegetables, Canning of, 265, 
269 
Compounds in, 155-156, 157 
Cooking of, 154 
Salt and Soda in Cooking, 
157 
Viscogen, 195 

Wafer Jumbles, 333 

Wafers with Cheese, Toastec 

46 
Water, 13, 27 

Boiling and Simmering, 29 
To Heat Quickly, 30 
Safe Drinking, 28 
Temperature for Cooking, 
29 
Vegetables, 154 
Whip, Banana, 225 
Fig, Date or Prune, 355 
Prune, with Custard, 354 
Wine Sauce, 356 

Yeast, 288 

Doughnuts, 340 
Plants, 289 

Zwieback, 300 



