»m 






THE ART OF GERMAN 

Cookini^ and Baki ' 






6EKUINE 

GERMAN COOKINe 

AND BAKING 

BV UNA MEIER. 




LIBRARY OF THE 
NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE 
OF HOME ECONOMICS 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
ITHACA, NEW YORK 





The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003575432 




Cettdrer of ffi-ojokerg, ©ertnan etooltittB ^djaol, 



THE ART 



OF 



GERMAN COOKING 
AND BAKING 



-,, iVi. 



Revised and Enlarged Edition. 



Compiled and PnbUmh*d by 

Mrs. UNA MEIER, 

German Cooking Teacher. 



MILWAUKEE, U. S. A. 
1922. 



COPYRIGHT 1922. 
By Mr*. UNA MEIER. Milwaukee. Wu. 




PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION, 



This cook-book coiusists of about 1,250 recipes which have been 
tested and prepared. It is divided into 26 Chapters, as follows: 

Chapter Recipes Ch'apter Recipes 

1 Soups 68 16 Jams and Sauces 23 

2 Beef ■. 36 17 Desserts 128 

3 Veal 42 18 Beverages 29 

i Mutton 32 . 19 Wheat and Rye Bread, Yeast 

5 Pork 35 Cakes, Baking Powder Cakes 

6 Poultry and Game Birds 56 and Tarts Ill 

7 Game 25 20 Fillings and Frostlngs 27 

8 Flsb 61 21 Cookies 53 

9 Headcheese and Gelatines 12 22 Confectionery 20 

10 Dressings or Gravies 58 23 Preserves 115 

11 Potatoes 26 24 Menu 5 

12 Vegetables 74 Sandwiches 8 

13 Salads 47 25 Cookery for iDvallds 63 

14 Eggs 15 26 Miscellaneous 12 

15 Omelets, Pancakes, Waffles 
Noodles and Pies 58 

In giving to the public this second edition I am glad to be 
able to, offer a revised and improved cook book. It has been my 
aim to improve it in every way and to make it as clear, practical 
and helpful as possible. 

The previous material has been carefully revised and changes 
made in the wording where it was believed that the language 
could 'be improved upon to make the author's meaning more 
clear and comprehensible. A radical change has also been 
made in the construction and arrangement of the pages, which 
I trust will be an advantage. 

In recognition of the friendly attitude of the great public 
toward my first book, I wish to say that the entire edition of 
about 5,ooo copies is scattered all over the country and many as- 
surances of appreciation have come to me. I therefore feel en- 
couraged to send this new edition out upon the world, knowing 
that it is the same excellent cook book, only improved and aug- 
mented, and I hope that the book will contribute materially to 
the happiness and attractiveness of many homes and help to solve 
many problems, especially for brides and beginners. 

Respectfully, 

MRS. LrlNA MEIER, 

Author. 
Milwaukee, Wis., U. S. A. 



Reliable Weights and Measures as used In this Book. 



Flour 1 

Flour (sifted) 3 

Flour 2 

Flour 1 

Sugar, granulated 2 

Sugar, "A" coffee 1 % 

Sugar, powdered 2 % 

Sugar, powdered 2 

Sugar, best Brown 2 

Sugar, granulated, "A" or brown. 1 

Butter, soft 2 

Butter, soft 1 

Butter, soft 

Lard , 2 

Eggs 10, 

Cornstarch 3 

Indian Meal 2 % 

Coffee, ground 4 

Chocolate, sweet 3. 

Rice 2 

Rice 2 

Sago 2 

Barley 4 

Bread crumbs 1 

Chopped meat 2 

Suet 1 

Nutmeg 2 

Almonds 5 

Figs 2 

Dates 2 

Raisins 2 

Prunes 2 

Citron 2 

1 cup 

2 rounded tablespoons 



Are 
equal to 

quart or 4 teacups 1 lb. 

coffee cups, level 1 lb. 

tablesps., well-rounded . 1 oz. 

teaspoonful. heaped . . % oz. 

measuring cups, level . . 1 lb. 

coffee cups, level 1 lb. 

coffee cups, level 1 lb. 

tablesps., well-rounded . 1 oz. 

coffee cups, level 1 lb. 

tablesp., well-heaped . . 1 oz. 

full cups, well-pressed . 1 lb. 
tablesp., well-rounded ..2ozs. 

Piece size of an egg .... 1 oz. 

cups 1 lb. 

but if quite large 9. .^. .1 lb. 

cups 1 lb. 

coffee cups, level 1 qt. 

cups 1 lb. 

grated tablespoons .... 1 oz. 

cups, heaped 1 lb. 

tablespoons 1 oz. 

cups, heaped 1 lb. 

cups 1 lb. 

cup, grated 2 ozs. 

cups, heaped 1 lb. 

pint 1 lb. 

cups 1 lb. 

medium-sized 1 oz. 

cups 1 lb. 

cups 1 lb. 

cups 1 lb. 

cups 1 lb. 

cups, heaped 1 lb. 

4 ozs. 

1 oz. 



CHAPTER 1. 
SOUPS. 



No. 1— BOUILLON. 

4 lbs. ox-bones 1 small piece celery 

6 qts. water 1 small piece kohlrabi 

%* of an onion 1 small piece parsley-root 

% of a carrot 1 tomato, salt 

Preparation: The soupbone is put over the fire in 6 qts. 
of cold water after it has been washed in cold water. Soup- 
greens and salt are added and the whole is boiled slowly 4 
hours until it is boiled down to 2 or 3 quarts. Before using 
pour the bouillon through a fine sieve. If you like the bouillon 
very strong and of a good color add ^ teaspoonful of beef 

extract. 

No. 2— BOUILLON. 

The soupbone and tihe soupgreens are fried lightbrown 
with a piece of butter or lard. Water is then added and salt. 
Boil 4 hours as in the preceding recipe and strain before using. 



No. 3— OX-TAIL BOUILLON. 

3 lbs. ox-tall 5 qts. cold water 

1 tbsp. butter Salt 

Soupgreens 

Preparation: Cut the ox-tail into small pieces and to- 
gether with the soupgreens, fry them in butter lightbrown. 
Add 5 qts. of water and salt. Let it boil 4 or 5 hours slowly 
down to 2 qts. This bouillon will be very strong and may be 
served in cups, and bread or dheese-sticks may be served with 

it. 

No. 4^BOUILLON OF MEAT EXTRACT. 
Soupgnreens 1 tsp. extract of meat . 

1 tbsp. butter or lard Salt, 1 qt. water 

Preparation: Stew the soupgreens in butter or lard a 
little while, then add water and salt and boil slowly for 20 
minutes. Add the meat extract and strain. The yolk of one 
egg may be stirred into it. 



No. 5— BOUILLON OF BEEF. 

3 lbs. of beef Salt 

1 lb. of soupbone 4 qts. water 

Soupgreens 

Preparation: Soupbone, soupgreens, and salt and water 
are put over the fire to boil one hour, then the beef is added 



— 6- 



and the whole is boiled slowly for another 2 or 3% hours. 
Strain after boiling. This soup is very strong. Boiled in this 
way the meat is tender and nourishing. 



No. 6— BOUILLON. 
Made of Roastbones or Meat Remnants. 
2 lbs. of roastbones Salt 

Soupgreens 2 qts. water 

Preparation: Chop the bones and put over the fire with 
soupgreens, salt and water; boil 2 hours, then strain. If the 
bouillon is not strong enough, add a little meat-extract. 



No. 7— DUMPLINGS FOR BOUILLON. 

Marrow Dumpling Soup. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 tbsps. of melted beef marrow % tsp. chopped parsley 
2 eggs 1 pinch nutmeg 

% pt. grated rolls 1 tbsp. cold water 

% tsp. salt 

Preparation: Boil or cook the marrow until it is melted, 
strain it through a fine sieve. Put 3 tablespoonfuls into a 
dislh and let it cool off. Then beat it to foam and add the 
yolks of the eggs, salt, parsley, nutmeg, the grated rolls and 
water. Finally beat the whites of 2 eggs to stiflf froth and stir 
into the mass. 

Form small dumplings, let bouillon come to a boil, put the 
dumplings in and boil slowly i^ hour. 

It is best to try one dumpling first; in case it does not 
hold together, add some more grated roll. 

The soup must be served at once. A little chopped pars- 
ley put into it is a pleasing and palatable addition. 



No. 8— BUTTER-DUMPLING SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 tbsps. of butter, 2 eggs % tsp. parsley 

% pt. grated rolls 1 pinch nutmeg 

Vi tsp. of salt 1 tbsp. of cold water 

Preparation of butter-dumplings is the same as the mar- 
row-dumplings in No. 7. 

The butter is beaten to a cream at once and less salt is 
added, because the butter is already salted. 



No. 9— LIVER-DUMPLING SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Vi lb. of chopped calf's liver 5 tbsps. grated rolls 

1 tsp. butter 2 eggs 

A little grated onion 1 tsp. salt, (scant) 

1 tsp. finely chopped parsley 1 pinch nutmeg 

Preparation : The butter is stirred and liver, yolk of eggs, 
salt, parsley, onion, nutmeg and roll crumbs added. The 
whites of eggs are beaten to a froth and stirred into the mass, 
then small dumplings are formed. When the bouillon comes 
to a boil, put the dumplings in and boil ^ hour. 

The soup should be served at once. 

No. 10— MEAT-DUMPLING SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of finely chopped veal or 1 tsp. of butter 

poultry V2 tsp. finely chopped parsley 

2 eggs 1 tsp. salt 

% pt. grated rolls 1 pinch nutmeg 

Preparation: The butter is stirred, then meat, yolk of 
eggs, parsley, salt, nutmeg added and well mixed. The whites 
of eggs beaten to a froth and added to the mass. Small dump- 
lings are formed and when bouillon boils, let the dumplings 
boil in it 10 minutes. A little parsley may be put into the 
soup, which must be served at once. 



No. 11— SPONGE-DUMPLING SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 eggs Vi tsp. of salt 

% pt. milk or bouillon 

Preparation: Eggs and milk or bouillon are well stirred 
or beaten, salt is added and the mass boiled in double-boiler 
for 20 minutes. If you have no double-boiler put your soup 
into a small pot and place tihis into a larger one with boiling 
vra,ter. 

The bouillon is put into the souptureen and the dumplings 
are cut with a teaspoon and put into the bouillon. A little 
finely chopped parsley is added. 

No. 12— FARINA-DUMPLING SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Vz pt. milk 1 tsp. of butter 

4 tbsps. fine farina % tsp. of salt 

1 egg 1 pinch of nutmeg 

_ Preparation: The milk is brought to a boil, stir in the 
farina and butter and salt, then boil 3 or 3 minutes, stirring 



— 8 — 

constantly until the mass loosens from the pot. Take from 
the stove, stir into it tihe yolk of egg. Beat the white of the 
egg to a froth and add to the mass. When it is cool make 
small dumplings, or you may also cut into sponges with tea- 
spoon. Let the bouillon boil 5 minutes with the dumplings. 
Some chopped parsley in the soup is very good. 

No. 13— STIRRED SPONGE DUMPLINGS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 tbsps. of butter % tsp. of salt 

6 tbsps. of flour % tsp. finely chopped parsley 

2 tbsps. of milk 1 pinch of nutmeg 

2 eggs 

Preparation: The butter is beaten to a cream, add yolks 
of 3 eggs, salt, parsley, nutmeg, flour and milk. 

The whites of 2 eggs are beaten to a froth and stirred in. 
When the bouillon boils cut out small sponges with teaspoon 
and boil 5 minutes. 

If the dumplings are too soft, add some more flour. The 
soup must be served at once. 



No. 14— CURDLE SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% pt. milk % tsp. of salt 

2 — 3 eggs 1 pinch of nutmeg 

3 tbsps. of flour 1 tsp. of finely chopped parsley 

Preparation: The milk, eggs, flour, salt and nutmeg are 
well mixed. 

When the bouillon boils the mass is slowly poured into it 
and boiled 5 minutes. The soup must be stirred constantly 
while boiling, lest it should burn. When served the parsley 
is added. 

No. 15— MARROWSTRIPS FOR SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. beef marrow, 2 rolls 1 pinch of salt 

% lb. butter, (scant) 1 pinch of white pepper 

Preparation: The rolls are cut into .equal strips and 
baked liglht brown in the butter. They are then placed on a 
platter. Soak the marrow in water, cut into layers and place 
on the hot bread. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and place the 
pan or platter into a hot oven. Leave it in the oven until the 
marrow is transparent and serve with the bouillon. 



— 9 — 

No. 16— BREADSTICKS FOR BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% pt. warm milk 1 tbsp. of milk 

% cake yeast 1 pinch of salt 

Preparation: The warm milk and flour is beaten to a 
thin dough. The yeast is dissolved in a tablespoonful of warm 
milk and added to the dough. The whole is placed near a 
warm stove for rising whidh requires about % hour. 

When this is done, work the dough with flour thick 
enough to roll out in % inch layer. Cut this dough into nar- 
row strips 4 inches long and set aside for rising again, then 
bake tlhem in a tin until of a yellow color. Serve them fresh 
and warm with a strong bouillon. 



No. 17— CHEESESTICKS FOR BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 12 Persons. 
% lb. Swiss cheese % lb. flour 

% lb. Parmesan cheese 1 pinch salt 

Vi lb. butter 1 pinch paprika (red pepper) 

Preparation: The butter is beaten to foam, the cheese is 
grated fine and added, also salt and paprika. Then the flour 
is kneaded into it to make a smooth dough and rolled out to 
14 inch thickness. Cut in i/^ inch strips and 5 inches long. 
Now bake in a medium hot oven to a ligiht yellow color. If 
too dark the sticks will taste bitter. 

They are served fresh and warm with strong bouillon. 



No. 18— CHEESE PASTRY. 

Quantity for 12 — 15 Persons. 
% lb. flour 1 pinch salt 

Vi lb. (scant) Parmesan cheese 1 pinch sugar 
% lb. fresh, good butter A little nutmeg 

6 tbsps. thick, sour cream A little paprika (red pepper) 

Preparation: The butter is beaten to a cream, and the 
finely grated cheese added. The cream, sugar, salt, nutmeg, 
paprika and flour added, made into a fine paste and rolled out 
into Yz inch thickness. Cut out with a small glass and bake in 
a medium hot oven to a ligiht yellow color. 

Remarks : It is better to put the paste on ice for a while 
and then roll it out. They are served hot with bouillon; or 
this pastry, as also the cheesesticks in No. 17 may be served 
as dessert instead of bread, butter and cheese. 



— 10 — 

No. 19— FLOUR DUMPLINGS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 cup of flour 1 tbsp. of butter 

1 Vz cups of boiling water 1 tsp. of salt, 1 egg 

Preparation: The flour and salt are mixed and the boiling 
water, in which the butter is melted, poured on and the mass 
stirred briskly, after which the egg is mixed in. 

The bouillon should be boiling, and the dumplings are 
formed or cut out with a teaspoon, put into the bouillon, and 
-boiled 8 minutes. 

Remarks: These dumplings may be made large, boiled 
in salt water 10 minutes and served .with stewed fruit. 



No. 20— RICE SOUP WITH BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% cup of rice 3 qts. of bouillon 

2 cups of cold water 

Preparation: The rice is washed and put on with 2 cups 
of cold water to boil 5 minutes ; then pour off the water. Now 
add 3 qts. bouillon and cook slowly for 1 hour. 



No. 21— BOUILLON RICE SOUP WITH TOMATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% cup rice ~ Vz Qt. canned tomatoes or 1 % lbs. 

2 cups water fresh tomatoes. 

3 qts. bouillon 
Preparation: After the bouillon boils as in No. 1, add in- 
stead of one tomato the quantity mentioned in this recipe. 
Proceed as in No. 20, strain the bouillon and boil the rice in it 
for 1 hour. 



No. 22— RICE SOUP WITH MILK. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
■1 cup of rice 2 qts. of milk 

3 cups of water i^ tsp. of salt 

Preparation: The rice is washed in water, and boiled for 
5 minutes. Pour ofif the water and gradually add milk. It 
takes the rice about 1% to 2 hours to get soft. Serve with 
sugar and cinnamon or cooked prunes. 

In the summer time rice is palatable and refreshing, served 
cold with milk. 



— 11 — 

No. 23— COLD RICE SOUP WITH APPLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% cup of rice % lemon 

2 qts. water Vi tsp. of salt 

2 lbs. sweet-sour apples % cup sugar 

Preparation: The rice is washed and boiled in 3 cups of 
water for 5 minutes, then this water is poured off and 2 qts. 
added to boil 1 hour. In the meantime peel the apples and re- 
move the corCj cut them up in %ths and put into rice, also cut 
up the % lemon in slices and add to the soup. Boil all this 
20 minutes after adding salt and sugar as stated above. 

If the soup is too thick, add some more water. It can be 
served warm, but it tastes better when cold. 

Remarks : You can improve the soup by adding ^ pt. of 
white wine and more sugar. 

No. 24— BARLEY SOUP WITH BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% cup of pearl barley 3 qts. bouillon 

2 cups of water. Some finely cut asparagus 

Preparations: The barley is washed in cold water and 
then brought to boiling in cold water. The water is poured 
off and the bouillon poured on and with this it is boiled slow- 
ly for 1% hours. During the last % of an hour the asparagus 
is put in and boiled until soft. If you wish, you may leave out 
the asparagus. 

If the soup looks too white you may add some meat ex- 
tract or stir into it the yolk of one egg. 

No. 25— BARLEY GRUEL SOUP WITH BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 cup of pearl barley Some pieces of asparagus if you 

1 tbsp. of butter like 

3 qts. strong bouillon 

Preparation: The barley is washed and boiling water 
poured on and off twice. Heat tihe butter and cook the barley 
in it for a while. Then the bouillon is poured on and the soup 
is boiled slowly for 2^^ hours. Now the soup is strained 
through a fine hairsieve and heated again. 

If you wish some asparagus in it, which gives it a nice 
flavor, cook the asparagus pieces separately in bouillon until 
soft and add it to the soup, or stir the yolk of one egg into 
the soup. 

This soup is very good for sick persons, but for this pur- 
pose the asparagus is left out. 



—12 — 

No. 26— BARLEY GRUEL SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 cup of pearl barley Salt according to taste 

1 tbsp. of butter 1 pinch of nutmeg 

3 qts. of water 2 tsps. of chopped parsley 

Preparation: The barley is washed and put over the fire 
in some cold water. Let it get hot and pour off the water. 
Put the barley into the butter and let it steep a while, then 
add more water and boil for one hour. Add salt and nutmeg 
and at last add the parsley. You can also add a piece of 
fresh butter. 



No. 27— SWEET BARLEY GRUEL SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

This soup is the same as No. 26 with the exception of 
parsley and nutmeg whidh are left out. i/^ cup of sugar and 
some cinnamon are added. The soup is then strained through 
a fine hairsieve and the yolk of one egg is stirred into it. 



No. 28— SAGO SOUP WITH BOUILLON, 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 cup of sago 3 qts. of bouillon 

1 qt. of water 

Preparation : The sago is soaked for 1 hour in cold water. 
Pour off the water and add boiling hot bouillon, and in this 
the sago is left to boil until it is transparent. 



No. 29— SAGO SOUP WITH RED WINE OR 
RASPBERRY JUICE. 

Quantity for 2 Persons. 
% cup of sago % cup of sugar 

3 cups of water 2 slices of lemon 

1% cups red. wine or raspberry juice 

Preparation: The sago is soaked in cold water for one 
hour. This water is then poured off and 3 cups of fresh water 
added in which the sago is boiled until soft and transparent. 
Add the quantity of red wine or juice, sugar and lemon and let 
it boil 5 minutes longer. Remove the lemon slices. 

Serve this soup with zwieback or with small slices of 
toast. 



—13— 

No. 30— FARINA SOUP WITH BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% cup of farina 2 qts. of bouillon 

Preparation: Let the already strained bouillon boil, then 
pour the farina into it slowly while stirring it, and leave it to 
boil 10 minutes. 



No. 31— GREEN CORN SOUP WITH BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% cups of green corn 1 or 2 yolks of eggs 

1 tbsp. of butter 1 milk roll cut into small cubes 

3 qts. of bouillon % tbsp. of butter 

Preparation : The green corn is steeped in the tablespoon- 
ful of butter, then the bouillon is added and this boiled slowly 
for 2 hours. This is then strained through a hairsieve and the 
yolk of one egg stirred in. 

The milk roll is cut into cubes and fried in the 1/2 table- 
spoonful of butter until light yellow. When serving the soup 
put these bread cubes into it or serve them with the soup. 



No. 3a— OATMEAL SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 cups of oatmeal Some salt 

2 tbsps. of butter % tsp. of meat extract 

2% qts. of water 

Preparation: The oatmeal is put on with tihe water and 
salt and boiled slowly for i/^ hour, then the soup is strained or 
pressed through a hairsieve. Now add butter and meat ex- 
tract and let this all come to a boil. If the soup is too thick 
add some more boiling water. 

Remarks: Instead of water you may also take milk and 
leave out the meat extract. You may add some sugar. Small 
pieces of rolls fried in butter are good with this soup. It is 
very good for invalids. 



No. 33— BEAN SOUP WITH BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 cup of nice white beans % lb. of ham bones 

3 qts. of good bouillon 

Preparation: The beans are soaked in water for some 
hours, pour oflf the water, put on fresh water and bring to 



— 14- 



boil. After boiling for 10 minutes, pour off this water and 
boil again. Now pour it off for the last time, add the bouillon 
and boil the beans in this until soft. The ham bone is boiled 
in the bouillon. It requires 3 hours to cook this soup. 



No. 34— BEAN-PUREE SOUP WITH CRAB OR 
LOBSTER BUTTER. 

Quantity for 4 Persons. 
% cup of white beans 1 tbsp. of crab or lobster-butter 

1 % qts. of water 1 % qts. of bouillon 

1 tbsp. of butter Some white pepper 

3 tbsps. of cream 

Preparation: The beans are soaked, drained and boiled 
until soft in 1^2 qts. of water. When they are soft the water 
rriust be all boiled down. Strain the beans through a fine sieve. 
This puree or mass is stewed in the btitter and the crab or 
lobster-butter and tihen the bouillon is added, also the white 
pepper. The cream' is put into the soup dish and the soup is 
poured over it. 

Begin preparation of this soup about 3 hours before time 
to serve. 



No. 35— PEA SOUP WITH BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 % cups of peas 1 roll 

3 qts. of bouillon % tbsp. of butter 

Vz lb. ham or bones 

Preparation: The peas are prepared just like the beans in 
No. 33, then they are boiled until soft in bouillon for 3 hours. 
The soup is then strained. If it is ham that is being boiled in 
the bouillon, cut same into small pieces and put them into the 
strained peas. 

Cut the roll into small cubes, fry them in butter until light 
yellow and serve with the soup. 



No. 36— LENTIL SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 cups of lentils % tbsp. of butter 

3 qts. of bouillon 1 tbsp. of flour 

1 lb. of Wiener sausage 

Preparation: The lentils are soaked in water for one hour, 
then this water is poured off and the lentils brougfht to boil in 



— 15 — 

cold water. They must boil for 10 minutes. This water is 
again poured off and the bouillon added ; in this the lentils are 
boiled until soft which requires 21/2 to 3 hours. When the 
lentils are done, tihe butter is heated and the flour stirred into 
it; this is then poured into the soup. Ten minutes before 
serving put the Wieners into the soup, let come to a boil and 
then merely steep. The Wieners are served with the soup. 

Remarks: Put very little salt into the soup, because the 
Wieners are already seasoned. 



No. 37— FRESH VEGETABLE SOUP WITH BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 small carrots 6 asparagus stalks 

2 small kohlrabis 2 potatoes if you like 

% head of celery % tbsp. of butter 

% head of cauliflower 1 tbsp. of flour 

30 pods of shelled peas 3 qts. bouillon 

Preparation: The butter is heated and flour put into it to 
stew, then the bouillon is added ; all vegetables and potatoes 
cut into small* pieces, and put into the boiling bouillon and 
cooked for one hour until soft. If you cannot get all of these 
vegetables you may put less of it into the soup. Instead you 
may put small meat dumplings of veal or chicken into it. These 
dumplings are prepared as in recipe No. 10. 



No. 38— ASPARAGUS SOUP WITH BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of asparagus 1 tbsp. of butter 

3 qts. of bouillon 2 % tbsps. of flour 

Preparation: The butter is heated and the flour stewed in 
it, then the bouillon is added and let come to a boil. The as- 
paragus is peeled, cut into small pieces, 1^ inches long, and 
boiled in the bouillon for % of an Ihour. 

If the asparagus is tender it will be done after y^ hour 
cooking. 

No. 39— CAULIFLOWER SOUP WITH BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 head of cauliflower 1 tbsp. of butter 

3 qts. bouillon 2 % tbsps. of flour 

Preparation: The preparation of this soup is the same as 
No. 38. The cauliflower is broken into small roses and boiled 
in the prepared bouillon about 20 minutes. 



— 16 — 

No. 40— SORREL SOUP WITH BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of sorrel 5 tbsps. of cream 

% lb. lettuce leaves Some sugar 

% lb. butter 1 pinch of pepper 

3 tbsps. of flour 1 roll cut into small cubes 

2 % qts. bouillon Vz t'bsp. of butter 

2 yolks of eggs 

Preparation: The sorrel and lettuce leaves are put into 
boiling water for a minute and placed in a sieve to drain. It 
is then put into ^4 lb. of butter and stewed for 10 minutes. 
After this the mass is pressed through a sieve and stirred with 
the yolks of eggs and cream. The bouillon should be prepared 
and heated beforehand; the butter should be heated and the 
flour stirred in, and to this the bouillon is gradually added. The 
cubes of roll are fried light yellow in the i^ tablespoonful of 
butter. When the puree is done it is poured into the boiling 
bouillon and sugar and pepper put in to suit taste. The fried 
roll cubes are served with the soup. 



No. 41— CELERY SOUP WITH MILK. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 small bundles of fresh celery or 1% — 2 qts. of milk and % qt. 

1 % head of celery cream 

2 tbsps. of butter 1 — 2 yolks of eggs 

3 tbsps. of flour 1 pinch of pepper 

1 pinch of salt 

Preparation: The celery is cut into small pieces, and 
boiled in water until soft, then strained through a hairsieve. 
The "butter is heated with tihe flour in it and the milk is now 
added. The boiled and strained celery is added, let come to a 
boil, stirring constantly. Add enough salt and pepper to suit 
your taste, stir in the yolks and serve at once. If you leave 
the soup standing it will get thick. 



No. 42— TOMATO SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 qt. canned tomatoes, or 1 pinch of pepper 

4 lbs. of fresh tomatoes Salt, some sugar 

1 qt. of water 2 tbsps. of flour 

1 tbsp. of butter 1 roll cut into cubes 

% tsp. of sliced onions % tbsp. of butter 

1 tsp. of chopped parsley 
Preparation: The tomatoes are boiled in water for a few 
minutes. If you have taken fresh tomatoes let them cook % 



— 17 — 

hour in 1^/4 qts. of water. Butter and finely cut onions are 
steeped so tlhat the onions remain light yellow, add the flour 
and cook a little more. Butter, flour and onions are now put 
into the boiling tomatoes, and boiled with them. Then the 
mass is strained, sugar, salt, pepper added, the whole heated, 
the chopped parsley put in, and tlhe soup served. The roll 
cubes are fried light yellow and put into the soup or if you 
wish you can serve them with the soup. 



No. 43— TOMATO SOUP WITH MILK. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 qt. canned tomatoes or 1 pinch of salt 

4 lbs. fresh tomatoes 1 pinch of sugar 

1 qt. of milk 1 pinch of pepper 

% tbsp. of butter 1 tsp. of baking soda 

Preparation. The can of tomatoes is heated, the fresh 
tomatoes must be boiled until soft in I/2 qt. of water, then 
pressed through a fine sieve. 

The milk and butter are brought to boil in a double boiler 
and the tomatoes are put into it. Salt, pepper and sugar put 
in, then the soda stirred in and the soup served at once. 



No. 44^MOCK-TURTLE SOUP. 

Quantity for 8 Persons. 

% calf's head without the brains % qt. red wine 

1 calf's tongue or 2 feet Salt and pepper 

% lb. of raw ham, (scant) % lb. of butter 

1 carrot % lb. of flour 

1 piece of parsley-root 1/1 G qt. of Madeira wine 
14 of a celery-root 4 eggs 

2 small onions 2% qts. of water 

Preparation: The finely cut ham, soupgreens and onions 
are fried and the calf's head and tongue or chopped feet are 
then put in and the quantity of water added. The feet must 
be scalded before using. 

The whole is cooked until tender and salt and pepper 
added. Then it is strained. The skin of the calf's head is cut 
into small pieces (also the tongue and feet) a little salt is 
strewn over the meat and the red wine poured over it. 

Butter and flour are browned and the bouillon, from which 
the fat has been removed is poured on, also the Madeira wine. 

The soup is now slowly boiled for one hour. The scum 
and fat must be taken off. 

Nbw the meat with the red wine are put in. 



-18- 



The eggs are boiled hard and the whole yolks put into the 
soup. You can also cut the yolks in halves and put one-half 
into eaclh soup dish. 

It requires 3 hours to cook this soup. 



No. 45— POTATO SOUP WITH BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of raw or unboiled peeled or bouillon of rabbitroast bones, 

potatoes or bouillon of poultryroast bones 

2 qts. bouillon of oxbones, 1 roll cut into small cubes 

(soup-bones)' % tbsp. of butter 

Preparation: The potatoes are pared, cut into small 
pieces and cooked until soft in the bouillon, then pressed 
through a sieve. If yo" wish you may leave the pieces of po- 
tatoes whole. 

The roll cubes are toasted light yellow and put into the 
soup or served witlh it. 

Remarks : Potato-soup of rabbitroast bones or fowl bones 
is very good. If there is some meat left on these bones, cut it 
in small pieces and put it into the soup. 



No. 46— POTATO SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of raw potatoes Salt 

2 qts. of water 1 roll cut into cubes 

1% tbsps. of fresh butter % tbsp. of butter 

% tsp. of meat extract 

Preparation: The potatoes are pared, cut into small 
pieces, and cooked until soft in the 2 qts. of water, then press- 
ed through a sieve and cooked again. Salt, butter, meat ex- 
tract are now added. 

The roll cubes are fried light yellow in the I/2 tablespoon- 
ful of butter and put into the soup before serving. 



No. 47— WHITE WINE SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 qt. light white wine 4 slices of lemon 

1 qt. water % lb. of sugar 

1 stick of cinnamon 3 tbsps. of corn starch or flour 

2 cloves 1 pinch of salt 
2 tsps. of lemon sugar or 3 eggs 

Preparation: The water witlh the spices is boiled for 2 
minutes before the wine is added and let come to a boil again. 



—19 — 

The yolks of the 3 eggs are stirred with flour and a little water 
and then stirred into the soup. Let it come to a boil once 
more, stirring constantly. Then it is taken from the stove. 
The whites of the eggs are beaten to a stiff froth and put into 
tihe soup when served. 

Cloves, lemon slices, and cinnamon are taken out. Zwie- 
back or toasted slices of rolls are served with this soup. 



No. 48— RED WINE SOUP. 
Quantity toi 6 Persons. 
1 qt. light red wine 1 stick of cinnamon 

1 qt. of water % lb. of sugar 

1 small piece of lemon peel 3 tbsps. of cornstarch or common 

3 cloves flour 

Preparation: Boil the water, sugar and spices for 10 min- 
utes. The flour mixed with some water is stirred in and let 
come to a boil, stirring constantly. 

Heat the red wine and put it into the soup but do not 
boil any longer. Serve at once. Serve zwieback or small soup 
macaroons with it. 

No. 49— BEER SOUP. 

Quantity tor 6 Persons. 
1 % qts. of beer 1 pinch of salt 

% qt. water 3 tbsps. of flour or cornstarch 

1 stick of cinnamon 3 slices of lemon or lemon sugar 

2 cloves 3 eggs ' 

% lb. sugar 

Preparation: Wiater, beer, sugar and spices are brought 
to a boil. The flour and yolks of eggs are mixed with water 
and stirred into the soup and brought to a boil again. The 
w'hites of eggs are beaten to a stiff froth and put into the 
soup when served. 

Zwieback or toasted slices of rolls are served with the 
soup. 

No. 50— APPLE SOUP. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of apples 2 tbsps. of cornstarch 

2 qts. of water Vs lb. of currants 

% lb. of sugar Juice of % lemon and a small 

1 stick of cinnamon piece of rind 

Preparation: The apples with their peelings on are cut 
into pieces and the core removed, and then boiled in tIhe water 
with the spices until soft. The flour is mixed with a little 



— 20 — 

water and put into the apples while boiling. Then the whole 
is strained or pressed through a sieve. Now the washed cur- 
rants are added and a cup of red wine or white wine and 
cooked again. 

Remarks: All fruit soups may be prepared this way, i. e., 
plum, cherry, apricots, strawberries, raspberries, currants, 
grapes, gooseberries or rhubarb soups are made this way but 
some need more sugar than others, or the wine is left out. 

Dried fruit may also be used. 



No. 51— RYE BREAD SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of rye bread 1 tumbler full of white wine 

2 qts. of water Some sugar, about 1 tbsp. 

Salt 1 tbsp. of fresh butter 

% cup of currants 

Preparation : The rye bread which may be stale is put on 
witlh 2 qts. of cold water and boiled a little, then pressed 
through a hairsieve. 

If it should be too thick, leave out some bread. It is then 
boiled with the salt, sugar, currants and butter for a little 
while. The white wine is poured into the soup dish and the 
soup added to it while boiling hot. 



No. 52— FLOUR SOUP, (WHEAT). 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

% lb. of butter % qt. of water 

% lb. of flour 1 pinch of salt 

1 % qts. of milk 

Preparation: The butter is browned, flour stirred in, milk, 
water and salt added. The soup must be boiled 30 minutes, 
constantly stirring it. You may stir into it the yolk of one egg. 



No. 53— RYE FLOUR SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of rye flour 1 qt. of milk 

2 tbsps. of butter 1 pinch of salt 

% qt. of water 2 yolks of eggs 

Preparation : The rye flour is stirred into the cold water, 
butter and salt added and cooked for 20 minutes while stirring 
constantly. Add tihe milk and boil again ; then stir in the yolks. 



—21— 

No. 54U-MILK SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 qts. of milk % lb. of sugar 

1 small stick of cinnamon 1 pinch of salt 

1 tbsp. of lemon sugar % lb. cornstarch 

Preparation: li^ qts. milk, sugar, spices and salt, let 
come to a boil. The flour is mixed with i^ qt. of milk and 
stirred into the boiling milk, then boiled for V^ hour. Stir in 
one egg yolk, then serve. 

No. 55— CHOCOLATE SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 qts. of milk % lb. of sugar 

% lb. of sweet chocolate or 1 small stick of cinnamon 

% lb. .of cocoa 1 pinch of salt 

1 tbsp. of lemon sugar % lb. of cornstarch 

Preparation : Prepare the chocolate soup just the same as 
the milk soup No. 54. Grate the chocolate and stir it into the 
flour or cornstarch and milk. If it gets too thick add more 
milk. 

No. 66— FISH SOUP WITH FISH-DUMPLINGS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 % lbs. of pickerel or other flsu. 8 oysters 

1% qts. of water 15 shrimps or crabs 

% of an onion, salt % qt. white wine 

% lb. of flour 2 tbsps. of butter 

% lb. of butter 2 yolks of eggs 

1 qt. of bouillon 12 small fish dumplings 

Preparation: The fish is scaled, drawn and washed. The 
meat is cut from the bones, the liver and gall removed. The 
bones are chopped up and with water, onions, salt and spices 
slowly stewed for a fish bouillon. 

Melt Ys lb. butter, stir in the flour, simmer to a light yel- 
low, pour the fish bouillon in, let it simmer slowly for % of 
an hour. 

The crawfish or crabs are boiled in the meantime. The 
meat is taken out of the shells. The oysters and the fish liver, 
which is cut into pieces, are heated in the white wine, but not 
boiled. The meat of the pickerel is also cut into small pieces 
and stewed in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter until tender. 

The fish dumplings are also cooked 10 minutes in the 
white wine. When done, put the dumplings into the soup 
tureen. All the meat, liver, crabs and oysters are put into the 
soup tureen, tihe gravy is strained and the yolks of 2 eggs 



— 22- 



stirred in and then poured into the tureen. Salt to taste. It 
is a very fine soup. 

The fish dumplings are made the same way as the meat 
dumplings in No. 10, only instead of meat take fish, and take 
ha.lf the quantities given in No. 10. Leave out the nutmeg. 



No. 57— CRAWFISH OR CRAB SOUP WITH MARROW- 
DUMPLINGS OR LIVER-DUMPLINGS. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
24 small crabs 2% qts. of bouillon 

% lb. of butter 1 pinch of white pepper 

Preparation: The crabs are washed carefully and thrown 
into boiling salt water, but taken out again immediately. Mash 
the crabmeat and stew it 1/4 of an hour in the ^ lb.* of butter. 
After this stir in the bouillon, cover and cook slowly 1 hour. 

Marrow dumplings or liver dumplings are cooked in the 
soup wliich has been strained. Tlie marrow dumplings are 
prepared as directed in No. 7 and the liver dumplings as in No. 
9. Take the same quantities. Serve at once wihen the dump- 
lings are done. 

No. 58— OYSTER SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 qt. oysters 1 pinch of salt 

1 qt. milk 1 pinch of pepper 

2 tbsps. of fresh butter 

Preparation : The milk is boiled and butter, salt, and pep- 
per added. The oysters with their juice are put into the boil- 
ing milk ; stir constantly while doing this, let come to boiling, 
stirring continually; then serve at once. Serve crackers with 
the soup. 

No. 59— CHICKEN BOUILLON TO DRINK. 

Quantity for 4 Persons. 

1 chicken 1 % qts. of water 

1 egg Some salt 

Preparation: The chicken is cleaned well and all fat re- 
moved. The meat is removed from the bones and chopped 
fine, the bones cracked or split, the egg is stirred in and. with 
water and salt put into a covered pot and cooked slowly for 
3 hours. Strain through a sieve and serve. This soup is very 
good for invalids and convalescents. • 



— 23 — 

No. 60— PIGEON BOUILLON TO DRINK. 

Quantity for 3 Persons. 

2 pigeons 1 % qts. of water 

1 egg Some salt 

Preparation: The pigeons are cleaned well and washed. 
The meat is removed from the bones and chopped fine, the 
bones split or cracked and the egg stirred in. Put on the fire 
with the water and salt and cook in a covered pot for 3 hours. 
Strain and serve. This soup is also good for sick people. 



No. 61— PIGEON SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 

2 old pigeons 3 qts. of water 

2 lbs. of soupbone, or better Scarcely % lb. of fine barley 

1 lb. of beef 2 tbsps. of butter 

Some soupgreens 2 yolks of eggs 

4 asparagus stalks 

Preparation : The pigeons are cleaned well and the breast 
and clubs or legs cut ofif and left w'hole. The other meat is 
chopped, also the beef, and all is boiled until soft in the quan- 
tity of water with salt and soupgreens. In the meantime the 
barley is soaked. Drain well and stew the barley in butter 
for a little while, then gradually pour on the strained bouillon. 

Peel the asparagus and cut it into inch lengths and add 
to the barley and bouillon. Boil for 1 hour. The meat from 
the breast and legs is cut fine and put into the soup when 
served. If you have used beef for the soup you may make 
hash or salad of it. 



No. 62— CHICKEN SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 chicken 6 asparagus stalks, a. few pieces 

2 % qts. of water of cauliflower 

Some soupgreens % cup of good rice, good measure 

Salt % tsp. of meat extract 

Preparation: The chicken is cleaned well, washed and 
cooked until soft with soupgreens, salt and water which re- 
quires 1% hours. If it is an old chicken it will require 2 to 3 
hours. The rice is washed and put on with some cold water 
to get partly done. When the water is all boiled doiwn add the 
strained bouillon. 

The asparagus and cauliflower are cleaned and cut into 



— 24 — 

small pieces and cooked until soft with the rice in the bouil- 
lon. When the soup is done the meat extract is added. 

The chicken breast is cut into small pieces and put into the 
soup. You can also carve the whole chicken and serve it with 
the soup. 

No. 63— PARTRIDGE SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 old partridges 2 tbsps. of butter 

4 potatoes cut in cubes Salt 

2 carrots cut in pieces 2 qts. of water 

3 tbsps. of flour 1 % tbsps. of butter 

Preparation: The partridges are cleaned well and fried 
in the 2 tablespoonfus of butter to a light brown. The flour is 
browned in the li^ tablespoonfus of butter and the water add- 
ed, also potatoes, carrots and salt and the fried partridges ; all 
of this is boiled until tender in a covered pot. This will re- 
quire 2 to 214 hours. The partridge breast is cut in pieces and 
served in the soup. 

The remaining partridge meat may be utilized in hash or 
dumplings. 



No. 64— WILD GAME OR POULTRY SOUP. 

Quantity for 4 — 6 Persons. 

You can make soups from all kinds of wild or tame birds. 
Follow directions given for chicken, pigeon or partridge soup. 
If the soup is made of bones and remnants and not rich enough 
you may add meat extract. 



No. 65— RED WINE SOUP WITH SAGO, 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

% bottle of red wine 1 stick of cinnamon 

1 qt. of water % lb. of sugar 

Vi lb. of sago 2 slices of lemon 

% cup raisins 

Preparation: The sago and raisins are boiled until soft 
in the water. Then the red wine is added, also cinnamon, 
sugar and lemon slices, and the soup is brought to boil again. 
Zwieback or toasted rolls are served with it. 



—25— 

No. 66— TOMATO SOUP WITH SMALL MEAT OR 

POTATO DUMPLINGS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 qt. can of tomatoes % tbsp. of sliced onions 

1 qt of water Salt to suit taste 

1 % tbsps. of butter 1 pincli of pepper 

2 heaping tbSps. of flour 1 tbsp. of sugar 





Meat Dumplings. 


V* lb. beef 


1 egg 


% lb. pork 


Salt and pepper to suit taste 




1 tbsp. of butter 



Potato Dumplings. 
% cup grated potatoes 2 tbsps. of flour 

% egg Salt and pepper to suit taste 

Preparation: Tomatoes are cooked in the water for 10 
minutes. The butter is melted and the onions put in and 
stewed a little, then the flour is stirred in and the whole is put 
into tlhe soup. Salt, pepper and sugar are added and after a 
few minutes boiling the whole is strained. 

The meat dumplings contain beef, pork, 1 egg, butter, salt 
and pepper, which is all mixed and small dumplings are 
formed. 

The potato dumplings are made of mashed or grated boil- 
ed potatoes which are mixed with 1 egg, flour, salt and pepper. 
Small dumplings are formed and rolled in flour. 

The tomato soup must be boiling when the dumplings are 
put in, and boil 10 minutes. Serve the soup at once with the 
dumplings in it. 

A teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley may be put in the 
soup. 



No. 67— BUTTERMILK SOUP OR SOUR MILK SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 % qts. of buttermilk or 1 small stick of cinnamon 

sour milk 3 slices of lemon 

% qt. sweet milk 1 pinch of salt 

% lb. of sago 1 cup of sugar 

Preparation: Buttermilk and sweet milk are brought to a 
boil with the sago. Cinnamon and lemon added. Cook slow- 
ly for one hour, stirring frequently. Add salt and a little 
sugar. The soup may be served hot or cold. 



— 26— 

No. 68— OYSTERPLANT SOUP. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 bundles of oysterplants 1 pinch of pepper 

2 % tbsps. of butter Salt to suit your taste 

2 tbsps. of flour 2 yolks of eggs 

1 V2 qts. of milk 

Preparation: The oysterplants are scraped and cut into 
small pieces. Put the clean oysterplants immeSiately into 
water mixed witlh vinegar and flour so that they will not get 
black. 

When they are well cleaned they ai-e stewed with the 
butter and a little water until tender; then stir in the flour 
and cook a few minutes. Then the milk is gradually added 
while stirring the soup constantly. Now the soup is left to 
cook a little, stirring occasionally and then salt and pepper 
are added. 

At last the yolks of 2 eggs are stirred in. 




— 27 — 

CHAPTER 2. 
BEEF. 




1. 


Beef Round. 


7. 


Neck. 


2. 


Rump. 


8. 


Round Shoulder. 


3. 


Sirloin. 


9. 


Beef Plank. 


4. 


Loin and Porterhouse with 


10. 


Beef Brisket. 




Fillet. 


11. 


Head. 


5-6 


Rib Roast. 


12. 


Shank. 


6. 


Chuck of Beef. 


13. 


Tail. 



Preparation of All Kinds of Beef Dishes. Boiled, Roasted and 
Salted Beef. How Remnants of Beef May be Utilized. 

The best quality of beef has a nice red color and white 
suet. The meat of young cows is more pale and tender. 

Old cows have dark, brownish red meat and yellow suet. 

Young beef makes a good roast, but a poor bouillon. 

Old beef makes a tough roast, but a good bouillon. 
The best Pieces for Roasting. 

The fillet, roastbeef, and the inner part of the forerib. 
The best Pieces for braising or Pot Roast. 

The rump, the sirloin, the fillet, roastbeef, (well-hung), 
also the chuck and round shoulder, (well-hung). 



— 28 — 

The best Pieces for Bouillon. 

The meat from the round, the rump, the chuck, in fact all 
lean meat and bones. 



Meat for Salting and Pickling. 

The meat from the round, also from the brisket, but with- 
out bones. 

Best Pieces for Boiling. 
The rump, the brisket and chuck. 



No. 1— ROAST BEEF. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 

6 lbs. of roastbeef % cup of water 

2 — 3 tbsps. of butter 1 cup of water for gravy 

% of an onion, to suit taste % tbsp. of flour 

Salt, pepper 

Preparation: The roastbeef is salted and peppered, put 
into a roasting-pan with the quantity of water given and roast- 
ed in the oven. After % 'hour's roasting add 3 to 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of butter and let it roast for another Ihour, basting fre- 
quently. In 114 hours the roastbeef is rare inside and in 2 
hours it is well done. 

If the roast is small, it will require 15 minutes less per 
pound, and if larger 15 minutes longer for roasting. When 
the roast is done, put it on a platter and make tbe gravy. 

Take % tablespoonful of flour, put it into- the pan, stir it 
well and let it boil 3 minutes, then pour in the 1 cup of water, 
boil a few minutes, strain and serve. 

Remarks: Be careful tlhat the butter does not turn too 
dark during the roasting. Should this be the case add a little 
water, so that the gravy may not taste bitter. 



No. 2— MEAT-PUDDING. 

How to Utilize Roast Beef. 

Roastbeef With Rice Covering. 

Quantity for 4 — 6 Persons. 

1 % lbs. left over roast beef % tsp. chopped onions 
% cup of rice 2 tbsps. of butter 

2 tbsps. of grated Swiss or 2 tbsps. of grated rolls 

Parmesan cheese % cup of left over gravy 

% tbsp. of flour % qt. of bouillon or water 

2 yolks of eggs 

Preparation : The roast meat is chopped, biit not too fine. 



— 29 — 

and stewed in a pan with the butter and onions. The gravy 
is mixed with flour, salt and pepper and poured on the meat 
which is left to cook a few minutes until the gravy gets thicic. 

The rice is cooked until soft and thick in the water or 
"bouillon, the grated cheese is put in and at last the yolks of 
2 eggs. Taste the rice for salt. Butter a pudding-mold and 
strew in some grated rolls, now put in one layer of rice and 
■one layer of meat and so on until all the meat and rice are in. 
Close the mold well and set in a steamer over a kettle of boil- 
ing water and steam for 2 hours. 

After the pudding is done, turn it out and pour over it a 
Dutch gravy or serve the gravy separately with it. 



No. 3— BEBF-FILLET ROAST. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
4 — $ lbs. of fillet % cup sweet or sour cream 

% lb. of butter % cup of water 

Salt and pepper For larding take % lb. of bacon 

% tbsp. of flour 

Preparation:. The fillet roast is freed from fat and skin. 
The bacon is cut in narrow strips and the fillet larded with it. 

The butter is put into the frying-pan and heated and then 
the fillet browned in it on both sides and sprinkled with salt 
and pepper. It is roasted in the oven for % of an hour, basting 
frequently with the gravy or water; the cream is put on 1 
spoonful at a time. The roast must be of a nice pink color. 
It is placed on a platter. 

The gravy: The given quantity of flour is put into the 
pan and browned, the water poured over and cooked for a few 
minutes ; then strain and serve. 

You can also put champignons into the gravy, which 
makes it richer. 

No. 4r-BEEF-FILLET BEEFSTEAK. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 % lbs. of fillet Salt and pepper 

% lb. of butter % cup of water 

Preparation : Cut the 2i^ lbs. of fillet into 6 pieces, trim 
off the fat and skin and pound slightly. They are then formed 
into round beefsteaks and sprinkled with salt and pepper. 

The butter is put into a frying-pan and heated and the 
steaks quickly browned on both sides, which requires about 
5 minutes. Fry for 5 minutes more, basting and turning oc- 



—30- 



casionally. The steaks are then taken out and put on a plat- 
ter. The water poured into the butter and boiled a little 
while ; this gravy is put over the steak. Beefsteak is fried in 
an open frying-pan on the top of the stove. 



No. 6— BEIEF-FILLET STEAKS WITH CHAMPIGNONS 
AND FRIED GOOSELIVER. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 ^ lbs. of fillet % lb. champignons 
% lb. of butter % tbsp. of butter 
Salt and pepper % tsp. of flour 

% cup of water 2 tbsps. of sweet cream 

% lb. gooseliver and % tsp. of meat extract 

% lb. of butter with it 

Preparation: The fillet is prepared just the same as in 
No. 4, and also fried the same way. The gooseliver is salted 
and peppered and sprinkled witlh flour, then fried light yel- 
low in Ys lb. of butter; add 1 tablespoonful of water, cover 
the pan and stew % hour longer. 

The water having been drained off the champignons, add 
% tablespoonful of butter, 14 teaspoonful of flour and a little 
salt and then cook a little. The cream and meat extract are 
added and simmered a while longer. 

The ready fried beefsteaks are put on a hot platter. The 
gooseliver is cut into as many pieces as there are steaks, and 
one piece put in the center of each steak. The prepared cham- 
pignons 'are placed around each piece of gooseliver on top of 
each steak. 

The gravy is put on the platter too. You can garnish the 
platter with scallops of puff paste. This dish is nice between 
courses. 

No. 6— BROILED STEAK OF ROAST BEEF. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 lbs. of roastbeef Salt, pepper 

V4, lb. of butter (scant) 

Preparation: The roastbeef is cut into 1% inch thick 
slices and pounded well. A broiler is put on the open medium 
Ihot fire and the slices laid on to broil for 20 minutes, turning 
frequently. Put them' on a hot platter, sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, cut the butter into small pieces and place them on 
the hot meat. Serve at once. 



— 31— 

No. 7— STEAK FROM THE BEEF ROUND. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 — 4 lbs. round steak Salt, pepper 

% lb. of butter % cup of water 

1 onion 

Preparation: The meat is cut into slices % inch thick 
and pounded slightly. 

The butter is heated ; tihe onion is sliced and fried till light 
yellow in the butter, then taken out and the meat put into this 
hot onion butter after it has been salted and peppered. Fry 
for 5 to 8 minutes to a lig'ht brown, turning it once or twice. 

The meat is put on a hot platter and the onions on top. 
A little water is put into the pan with butter and boiled a 
little. This gravy is poured over the meat. Serve at once. 

Remarks:- If you do not like onions, omit them. 



No. 8— CHOPPED GERMAN STEAK OR 
HAMBURG STEAK. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2^4 lbs. chopped steak Salt, pepper 

1 tbsp. of butter 1 tsp. of grated onion 

2 — 3 eggs 1/6 lb. of butter 

Preparation: The lean meat from the round is chopped 
fine or ground fine by putting it twice or three times through 
the grinder, then salted, peppered and mixed with tlhe eggs, a 
tablespoonful of butter and onion if you like. If you do not 
like onions, omit them. 

After mixing well, scant % lb. dumplings are formed and 
flattened to 1% inches in thickness. The butter or lard heated, 
the steaks put in and fried about 10 minutes, turning and bast- 
ing frequently. 

Serve the steaks on a liot platter, and for gravy pour a 
little water into the frying-pan with tlhe butter, let come to a 
boil, and pour over the steaks. 

Remarks: You may serve mustard gravy with this steak 
by adding 2 teaspoonfuls of mustard to the steak-butter and 
1 teaspoonful of flour and bouillon or water, boiled for 2 min- 
utes and strained. 



— 32 — 

No. 9 RAW BEEFSTEAK A LA TARTARE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of chopped meat 2 pepper-pickles 

Salt, some pepper 2 salt-pickles 

6 yolks of eggs % lb. sardines 

2 tsps. of chopped onions 1 % tbsps. of capers 

Preparation : The beef which must be very fresh and free 
from sinews, is chopped or ground twice in the grinder. Mix 
with salt and pepper and form into 6 equal I14 inch thick steaks. 
Witlh a knife, score or mark squares on the surface. _ Make 
a depression in the middle of each steak and put into this care- 
fully one raw yolk of egg. Garnish each steak with a small 
heap of onions, chopped small pieces of pickles, sardines from 
which tihe bones have been removed. Capers and mustard 
mixed with oil and vinegar may be served with it. The steaks 
must be served fresh. 

No. 10— FILLEH* BEEFSTEAK FOR BREAKFAST. 

Quantity for 2 Persons. 

1 lb. of fillet meat Some salt 

% lb. of butter 1 pinch of pepper 

% onion 6 tbsps. of gravy 

4 potatoes peeled 

Preparation: The pan which must have a cover is but- 
tered. The potatoes and onions are cut into cubes, salted and 
peppered and put into the pan. 

The pounded meat, cut into slices is browned on both sides 
in 1 tablespoonful of butter from the % lb. This must be done 
quickly in about one minute. The browned meat is then put 
on the raw potatoes. The gravy is poured into the beefsteak 
butter, or if you have no gravy, take water and boil it for one 
minute with a little meat extract, pour it over the potatoes 
and meat, cover well, and cook it 5 minutes over a hot fire; 
then set it aside and cook it slowly for 30 minutes more. Serve 
it at once in the covered pan. The pan must be small for such 
a small portion. 

Remarks: Instead of potatoes and onions you can take 
fresh or canned champignons, morels or mushrooms. This dish 
is good for sick persons if you omit the onions and mushrooms 
and take potatoes only. 



No. 11— BEEF POT ROAST. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 lbs. of meat 1 clove 

1 piece of fat bacon 2 tbsps. of suet 

Salt 3 tbsps. of flour 

6 pepper-corns 1 tbsp. of red wine or Madeira 

1 bay-leaf % of an onion 

Preparation: The meat — from rump, chuck or sirloin — 
is pounded. The bacon cut in small thick pieces is stuck into 
the meat, heat the suet, add onions and brown meat slightly 
on both sides. When this is done it is placed on a platter. 
Flour is browned in the suet to which water and the spices 
are added, and cooked. The browned meat is put into the 
gravy, which sihould cover it. Cover the pot well. The best 
thing for a pot roast is an iron pot. Put the covered roast 
into the moderately hot oven for 2% to 3 hours, basting fre- 
quently. One-half hour before done, pour the wine over it. 
When done, take the roast out and prepare the gravy. Take 
off all fat; if too thick add more water and strain. 



No. 12— BRAISED BEEF SLICES. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 slices of meat, 3 lbs. 10 small peeled onions 
Salt, pepper 3 carrots cut into cubes 
% lb. of butter 1 ^^ tbsps. of flour 

Vz qt. of bouillon 1 % tbsps. of vinegar 

Preparation: The meat slices are salted, pounded, brown- 
ed in hot butter and put into a pot. The carrots and onions 
are added and the bouillon is poured over. Cook slowly un- 
til tender. 

The meat, carrots and onions are taken out with a big 
skimmer. The flour is browned in the butter in which the 
meat was first browned, the gravy of the meat added and the 
vinegar ; boil and strain. The onions and carrots are arranged 
around the roast slices and a few tablespoonfuls of the gravy 
put on the meat. You can also add for garnishing some nice 
cuts of boiled potatoes or small potato dumplings. 

No. 13— ROASTED RIB-PIECE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

4 lbs. — 2 ribs 2 kohlrabis cut in cubes 
Some fine spices, salt % celery-root cut in cubes 
% qts. good vinegar % parsley-root cut in cubes 
Va lb. of butter 2 onions, cut up small 

3 carrots cut in cubes 
Preparation: The bones and tendons are taken out, the 



— 34 — 

meat is then rubbed with salt and the spices and put into 
vinegar for 1/2 hour. The vegetables, which have been cut in- 
to small pieces, are stewed in the given quantity of butter un- 
til soft. Add salt, and a little water from time to time to pre- 
vent the vegetables from becoming brown. The meat is fried 
in a pan with butter or lard for i/^ hour, turning occasionally. 
One-half of this fried meat is put into a flat pan, the stewed 
vegetables are put on top and the other half of the meat is 
placed on top of this and the whole is thus baked % hour in 
a medium Ihot oven. From time to time drop on a little butter. 

When serving, be careful to place the roast on the platter 
without dropping some of the vegetables. The gravy may be 
served with it. 

Remarks: When the roast is ready for baking you can 
roll it in a piece of oiled paper and bake it in that. 

No. 14— SOUR ROAST. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 lbs. of meat • 3 cloves 

2'qts. of vinegar Some salt 

1 onion cut in slices 2% tbsps. of flour 

10 pepper-corns 2 tbsps. of drippings 

3 bay-leaves % glass red wine 

Vs lb. of bacon 

Preparation: For the sour roast take the same kind of 
meat as in No. 11, pound it, put it into vinegar with the spices 
and leave it in that for 4 days, turning it over once in a while. 
After this time take it out and lard it with bacon cut into 
pieces one-third inch thick and 2% inches long. Pierce the 
meat with a pointed knife and insert the bacon. 

Heat the lard and fry the meat light brown on both sides 
and place it on a platter. Brown the flour in the lard and pour 
on the vinegar with the spices, water and salt. Put in a piece 
of honeycake (Pfeffer Kuchen) if on hand, and l/^ tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, boil all and put the roasted meat into this gravy. 
Cover the roast and bake in tihe oven for 2^2 to 3 hours, turn- 
ing and basting frequently with the gravy. One-half hour be- 
fore done, pour in the red wine. 

When the roast is tender, finish the gravy. Put the roast 
on a platter, take all grease off the gravy and strain it. If it 
is too thick, add more water, if not sour enough, add more 
vinegar. 

Potato dumplings or noodles are good with this roast. 



—SB- 
No. IS— BEEF-ROULADE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 — 2 % lbs. of beef cut into % Salt, pepper 

inch thick slices 1% tbsps. of flour 

% lb. bacon cut into thin slices % lb. of butter or lard 
1 onion chopped fine 1% cups of bouillon or water 

Preparation: The best meat for this is from the round. 
The meat slices are pounded and cut into squares, then 
sprinkled with salt and pepper, covered with bacon and 
onions, rolled up and fastened with twine or toothpicks. 

Heat the butter or lard and brown the . roulades in it, 
sprinkle flour over and stew, adding some salt and the bouil- 
lon or water. Then stew slowly for 1 hour in a covered pan 
or pot. If the roulades are small it requires less time, if large 
it requires from 2 to 2i^ hours. The roulades are served with 
the gravy after the twine or toothpicks have been removed. 



No. 16— BEEF-GULASH. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of meat Salt 

2 small onions in cubes 1 pinch of paprika 

1 tbsp. of lard 1 cup of water 

1 tbsp. of flour 

Preparation: The onions are stewed in tihe lard. The 
meat is cut into pieces li/^ inches thick and 1% inches square 
and added to the stewed onions, stewed 10 minutes, flour, salt 
and pepper added, and stewed 10 minutes longer, and then 
1 cup of water poured over. In a covered pot or pan it is now 
stewed for 3 to 2i/^ hours, stirring often. If it gets too dry, 
pour on more water. Gulash must not be too juicy. A little 
red wine may be added. 

Remarks: From leavings of roastbeef fillets or pot roast 
you can prepare gulash in y<2, hour. Instead of water you 
may use the left-over gravy. 



No. 17— STEAMED BEEF-BRISKET. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
6 lbs. of beef brisket 2 yolks of eggs 

Salt 1 % tbsps. of Parmesan cheese, 

Soupgreens grated 

1 small onion 2 tbsps. grated rolls 
8 pepper-corns 1 % tbsps. of butter 

2 cloves 6 qts. water 

1 bay-leaf 
Preparation: The beef is pounded and tied into a white 



— 36 — 

cloth in a good shape. The water is heated with salt, soup- 
greens and spices to the boiling point, then the meat added 
which must boil 1 hour so little that you Ihardly notice it. The 
pot must be well covered. If there are bones in the meat, they 
should be removed and put into the stock. 

When the meat is tender, take it out, cover it with fricas- 
see gravy whiclh is first stirred with 2 yolks of eggs. Strew 
the Parmesan cheese and roll crumbs over it and baste with 
some melted butter. Now set it into the oven and bake for 20 
minutes. You can garnish the roast with fried cut potatoes 
or macaroni. 

Cucumber-salad, mixed pickles or salt- or pepper pickles 
go nicely with this meat. 

Remarks: The bouillon may be boiled down and used 
for soup. 



No. 18— BEEF CUTLETS QF ROASTBEEF. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. roastbeef Salt, pepper 

% lb. butter 

Preparation: The meat is cut into 3 slices and bones, 
tendons, fat and skin removed from it. It is then pounded 
well. It must be II/2 inclhes thick. The butter is heated, the 
meat fried 20 minutes, turning it over several times. The last 
5 minutes you put it off the hot fire and let it simmer. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, then baste with the butter. 
Serve on a hot platter and garnish with parsley. The rem- 
nants may be used for gulash. 



No. 19— BOILED BEEF. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 lbs. of meat 1 lb. of bones 

Soupgreens 4 — 5 qts. of water 

Salt 

Preparation: The meat wihich may be from the rump, 
thick rib-piece or breast, is washed. The water with the 
bones, all soupgreens and salt is boiled for 1 hour, then put in 
the meat and boil slowly 2% hours. With this meat serve 
onion, mustard, horse-radislh or leek-gravy. 

Remarks: This meat may be utilized forha^h, salad, 
meat pudding or beef with onions and eggs. 



—37— 

No. 20— BEEF HASH. 

1 lb. remnants of meat Vz wine glass of white wine 

% of an onion 1 cup bouillon 

1 tbsp. of butter Salt, pepper 

1 tsp. of flour 

Preparation: The meat is chopped fine and may be of 
soup-meat, roast or steak. The onions are cut fine and stewed 
in butter, then the chopped meat put in, the flour strewn over 
it, simmered a little while longer, salt and pepper added and 
bouillon. If you take water add Y^ tablespoonful of meat ex- 
tract and wine. Let it cook 1/4 'hour and serve. Fresh boiled, 
peeled potatoes are nice to serve with it. 

No. 21— HASH WITH POTATOES. 

Quantity for 4 — 6 Persons. 
1 — 1 % lbs. of meat A little pepper 

Boiled or roasted beef Salt 

Vi onion 1 cup of bouillon or water 

1 tbsp. of butter 4 peeled, boiled potatoes 

Preparation: The meat is chopped fine. The onions are 
cut fine and steeped in the butter, then the meat put in and 
cooked 5 minutes. Salt and pepper are added, the potatoes 
are also chopped fine and added and water or bouillon poured 
on. The whole is cooked for ^4 of an hour, then served, 
served. 

No. 22— BEEF WITH ONIONS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% lbs. boiled beef 1 tbsp. of vinegar 

1 onion 1 pinch of pepper 

2 tbsps. of butter or suet Salt 

2 tbsps. of flour % tsp. of meat extract 

Vs qt. of bouillon 

Preparation: The onion is cut fine and simmered in the 
butter or suet until soft ; then add flour, simmer until brown ; 
pour on the bouillon, vinegar, salt, pepper and meat extract 
and let come to a boil. 

The meat is cut in slices and put into the gravy and 
heated. 

No. 23— BOILED BEEF SLICES FRIED WITH EGGS 

AND ONIONS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% lbs. boiled beef 6 eggs 

1 onion Salt 

2 tbsps. of butter or good 1 pinch of pepper 

drippings 



— 38 — 

Preparation: Meat and onions are cut into inch thick 
slices. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and fry in the butter or 
lard until light brown. Put the meat and onions on a hot 
platter. Fry the eggs in butter, strew salt over and lay them 
on each slice of meat. Be careful to keep the yolk whole. 

Potato salad is good served with this meat. 



No. 24— BEEF SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 lb. of boiled beef 1 % tbsps. of oil 

2 yolks of eggs % tsp. of grated onions 
Vinegar to taste 2 tsps. of capers 

Salt % cup of cold bouillon 

1 pinch, of pepper 3 tbsps. of cream 

% tsp. of mustard 

Preparation: The meat is cut in cubes and mixed with 
tihe egg yolks and cream. Now vinegar, bouillon, mustard 
and all the other ingredients except the oil are mixed in well. 
After the salad has stood for 1 to 3 hours, covered up well, the 
oil is stirred in. The salad is served in mound-shape, gar- 
nished with hard boiled eggs and pepper-pickles cut into nice 
slices. 



No. 25— CROQUETTES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 lb. boiled beef Salt 

% lb. raw or boiled chopped 1 pinch of pepper 

pork 1 tsp. of capers 

% onion, grated Juice of % lemon 

2 rolls soaked in water 2 ^ tbsps. of butter or lard 

2 — 3 eggs 

Preparation : The meat is clhopped fine or ground twice 
and mixed well with all the given spices and the soaked rolls. 
Make oblong dumplings of this mass, roll them in roll crumbs 
and fry to a light brown in the butter or lard. For gravy 
serve one of sardines or prepare one of the croquette drip- 
pings as follows: When the croquettes are done put % 
tablespoonful of flour into the drippings and let it stew a while, 
tlhen add 14 cup of bouillon or water, % teaspoonful of meat 
extract and salt according to taste. Let it boil a while and 
pour the gravy over the croquettes. 



—39— 

No. 26— MEAT PUDDING No. 2. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 

1 lb. boiled beef or roast beef 1 tsp. ground capers 

% lb. bacon 1 roll soaked and the water 

2 yolks of eggs pressed out 
2 whites of eggs beaten to foam Salt, pepper 

4 tbsps. of gravy % tbsp. of butter 

% tsp. of grated onions 1 tbsp. of roll crumbs 

3 chopped sardines 

Preparation: Meat and bacon are chopped fine and mixed 
well with yolks of 2 eggs, gravy, chopped sardines, onion, salt, 
capers, pepper and the roll. Add the beaten whites of eggs; 
put into a pudding-mold which has been buttered and strewn 
with roll crumbs. Set it in a steamer over a kettle of boiling 
water and let it steam li/^ hours, or bake in the oven for 1 
hour. 

No. 27— KONIGSBERGER KLOPS. 
Meat Balls. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% lbs. finely chopped raw beef 3 eggs 
% lb. fat pork, chopped 1 pinch of pepper 

% lb. of butter Salt 

1% roll; — the crust cut off The juice of % of a lemon 

1 tsp. of grated onion Some flour to roll them in 

Preparation: The beef and pork are mixed well with the 
butter; add the roll which 'has been soaked and the water 
pressed out, and all other things mentioned above, and mix 
well. Then small dumplings are made, rolled in flour, and 
boiled slowly in bouillon or salt water for 1-5 or 20 minutes. 
Put them into a deep di^h and pour white fricassee gravy 
over them. Sauerkraut is nice with this meat. You can also 
fry the Klops instead of boiling them. 



No. 28— FRIED BEEF LIVER WITH BREAKFAST 

BACON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of liver cut into thin Salt, pepper, flour 

slices 
% lb. of bacon cut into thin slices 

Preparation: The bacon must be lean and is fried light 
yellow, then placed on a platter on the stove. The liver slices 
are salted and peppered, dipped into flour and fried in the 
bacon dripping, quite crisp. It is put on the platter with the 



— 40— 

bacon. One-half cup of water or bouillon is poured into the 
lard in which the bacon and liver were fried and left to boil. 
This gravy may be served separately or on the meat. It re- 
quires only a few minutes to fry the liver. 

No. 29— COW-UDDER. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
11^ lbs. cow-udder 2 bay-leaves 

1 onion, 1 clove 

Salt 2 qts. of water 

6 pepper-corns 

Preparation: The cow-udder is washed well and placed 
over the fire with much cold water. As soon as it comes to 
a boil the water is poured off and the 2 qts. of fresh water 
poured on and all the spices named added, then boiled until 
soft which requires 4 or 5 hours. Then it is cut in pieces, and 
these are rolled in roll crumbs and fried in butter until light 
yellow. Or a nice brown gravy is made by taking 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and in it brown 2 tablespoonfuls of floiir, 
then add some of the bouillon, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, i/^ 
glass red wine, 1 teaspoonful of sugar — all this well cooked. 

Now tihe udder is put into this gravy, stewed a little while 
and served. The gravy must not be too thick. 



No. SO^CORNED BEEF. 

30 lbs. of beef 6 tbsps. of sugar 

2 lbs. of salt 10 qts. of water 

Scant Vs lb. of saltpetre 

Preparation: Water, saltpetre, sugar and salt are boiled 
until an egg will float on the mixture. Then this mixture is 
poured, while hot, on to the fresh meat. The liquid must be 
1% inches above the meat after a stone or something heavy 
is placed on it. The meat may remain in this mixture for 3 to 
4 weeks and should be turned once in a while. Smaller pieces 
need only 8 to 10 days. 

No. 31— CORNED BEEF FOR COOKING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 lbs. of pickled beef i qts. of water 

Some soupgreens 
Preparation:. When tIhe beef is very salty, soak it in 
water for a few hours. Put it to boil with the 4 qts. of water 



— 41— 

and soupgreens and boil for 2% to 3 hours slowly. Larger 
pieces need more time. 

Cabbage goes nicely with this beef. In carving, cut 
against the grain. 

No. 3!l— SMOKED CORNED BEEF. 

When the meat is taken out of the brine, hang it in a 
cool, airy place for one day and then smoke it. 



No. 33— PICKLED BEEF TONGUE. 
2 tongues 1 tsp. of saltpetre 

%, lb. of salt 1 tbsp. of sugar 

Preparation: The throat end is cut off and the skin of the 
tongue is cut with a sharp knife at several places. Salt, sugar 
and saltpetre are heated and the tongues rubbed well with the 
mixture. They are then packed into a jar and weighted with 
a stone. They must be turned every day. It takes 10 to 14 
days to pickle the tongues. 



No. 34^SMOKED, PICKLED OR FRESH BEEF 
TONGUE FOR COOKING AND FRYING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

For Cooking. 

1 fresh, smoKed or pickled beef 2 cloves 

tongue Some soupgreens 

1 bay-leaf % onion 

6 pepper-corns 3 qts. of water 

For Frying. 

2 tbsps. of butter ^ -wine glass of red wine 
1 tbsp. of flour % tsp. of sugar 

% cup of bouillon or water Juice of % lemon 

Preparation: Cut off the throat end and if the pickled 
tongue is too salty, leave it in water for a few hours, the same 
with fresh tongue to remove the slime or mucous. The smok- 
ed tongue is left in water over night. After this is done the 
tongue is cooked until soft in the 3 qts. of water, adding bay- 
leaf, pepper-corns, cloves, soupgreens and onion. If it is a 
fresh tongue, add some salt. It requires 3 hours to cook a 
tongue. 

Wlhen the tongue is soft, take it out of the water and skin 
it. You can serve the tongue in this manner or cold and 



— 42— 

sliced. If you wish to serve the tongue warm and whole, it 
is nicer to fry it. Put it into a low frying pan, add the given 
quantity of butter and fry it 10 minutes on both sides, add 1 
tablespoonful of flour and let it simmer a few minutes. Now 
add the bouillon or water. With the water put in y^ tea- 
spoonful of meat extract, red wine, sugar, salt and lemon 
juice, and then cook y^ of an hour, basting it several times. 
Then serve. The gravy must be strained. 

Boiled, warm tongue is nice with vegetables. Cut the 
tongue into slices and place it around the vegetables like 
scales. 



No. 35— RAGOUT OF OX-TONGUE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

For Cooking. 
1 tongue, smoked, pickled or 2 cloves 

fresh 6 pepper-corns 

3 qts. of water ^4 onion 

1 bay-leaf 

Sauce. 

3 tbsps. of butter 1 tsp. of sugar 

3 tbsps. of flour Salt 

% qt. bouillon or water 3 pepper-corns 

% cup Madeira or red wine 1 clove 

1 pt. of champignons % bay-leaf 

6 truffles % tsp. of meat extract 

Juice of % lemon 1 slice of lemon 

Preparation: The tongue is cooked the same as in No. 
34. For ragouts the smoked tongue is preferable. When the 
tongue is soft, skin it and cut it into thin slices. 

Gravy: Brown the butter and flour, add the bouillon, 
salt, sugar, pepper, 1 clove, % bay-leaf, one slice of lemon and 
the juice of y^ lemon, Madeira or red wine and the water from 
the champignons. Let it boil for l^ hour and strain. 

Peel the truffles, chop them fine and put them into the 
strained gravy and if the champignons are large cut them into 
quarters and put them also in the gravy and finally the slices 
of tongue. The gravy must not be too spicy if it is a smoked 
or pickled tongue. After the ragout has been thus prepared 
it may stew on the stove for % hour. The gravy must not 
be too thin and watery. 

The ragout is placed on a platter and garnished with 
warm scallops of pufif-paste or meat dumplings. 



— 43— 

Meat Dumplings. 

% lb. finely chopped veal Some grated onion, salt, pepper 

% lb. finely chopped pork 1 tbsp. of finely chopped cham- 

1 roll, soaked and the water pignons 

pressed out 1 tsp. of finely chopped truffles. 

1 egg 

Mix this all very well and form' small dumplings, tlhen put 
them into boiling hot salt water or bouillon and cook for 10 
minutes slowly, or fry in butter light brown and place them 
around the tongue ragout. 

The plates and the platter on which they are served must 
be hot. 

Remarks: This is a fine dislh for parties. 



No. 36— CHOP SUEY. 

For About 6 Persons. 
% lb. veal 1 large stalk celery 

% lb. pork 3 large onions 

1 lb. beef 1 tbsp. lard 

2 tsps. molasses 1 tbsp. flour 

Preparation: Cut the meat in cubes; put the lard and 
flour in pan and brown ; add meat and put enough water on to 
cover it ; add the molasses and cook slowly for 1 hour. 

Cut the stalk of celery in small pieces and add them to the 
meat. Cut the onions fine and fry them light brown in a little 
butter; add to the rest and boil slowly another half hour. 
Serve with plain Chinese sauce. 



— 44— 



CHAPTER 3. 

VEAL. 




1. Leg. 6. Breast. 

2-3. Kidney roast and small chops. 7. Head. 

4. Shoulder. 8. Shank Leg. 

5. Neck. 9. Pour Legs. 



Preparation of Veal. 
Appearance of Good Veal. 

It must be of a white color, a fine firm grain and have 
plenty of fat. 

Do not buy very young veal because those calves are as 
a rule not healthy. Cheap meat is never economical. Veal 
is quickly prepared because it does not require long boiling. 
The bouillon is good for invalids because it contains much 
gluten. 



—45 — 

Best Pieces for Roast. 

(Leg or Loin.) 
The leg with the fricandeau, the fillet, loin and kidney 
roast. 

Small Pieces for Frying. 
The chump end of loin for chops, veal-cutlets from rib- 
piece, fillet. 

Pieces for Pot Roast. 
The breast, neck, shoulder. 

Pieces for Boiling. 
The thick rib-piece, neck. 

Pieces for Bouillon. 
The calves' feet, calf-bones, calf-tail, also lean meat. 

Parts for Fricassee. 
Lungs, brain, sweetbreads, breast piece. 



No. 1— LEG OF VEAL. 

Quantity for 8 — 10 Persons. 
6 — 8 lbs. leg of veal % cup sweet or sour cream 

% lb. of bacon Salt, pepper 

% lb. of butter 1% cups of water 

2 tbsps. of flour 

Preparation : The meat is pounded, boiling water poured 
over, i. e., scalded, which makes the meat white ; let the water 
run off immediately. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and put 
into pan. Cut the bacon into thin slices and put it on the 
meat, add the butter and place into oven. Roast for 2 hours, 
basting frequently. About i/^ hour before done, put the flour 
into the gravy and stew 5 minutes, then add water and put 
the cream on the leg in spoonfuls. When the roast is tender, 
put on platter and strain the gravy which must not be too 
thin. 

Remarks: If the roast has much stock, pour some off be- 
fore adding flour, stand cold and let it jelly. Now cut it into 
slices and serve with slices of tenderloin. Veal roast may be 
utilized in various ways. 

No. 2— WARMED UP VEAL ROAST. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 % lbs. of veal roast Some salt 

% lb. of butter Juice of % lemon 

% lb. of sardines Left-over gravy 

1 tbsp. of capers For the gravy, 1 tsp. of flour 

Preparation: Put the roast into an earthen dish, heat the 



—46 — 

gravy, pour it over the roast, cover up the dish, place it into 
a covered pot with boiling water, let it boil slowly for one 
hour and baste tihe roast several times. 

The gravy is usually thin, therefore add the flour and 
serve with the roast ; the contents of the dish must not boil, 
otherwise the roast will become dry. Cut the roast into 
slices, place iJhem into a buttered mold, put the sardines, 
capers and bits of butter between them and drip the lemon 
juice on. Cover the mold, put it into the dish with boiling 
water and boil for % hours. The meat is served in the mold, 
the gravy heated and served with it. 



No. 3— VEAL ROAST WITH POTATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. of veal roast Vi onion 

Salt Left-over gravy 

1 pinch of pepper 
4 big, raw potatoes, peeled and cut into thin slices 

Preparation: The meat is cut into small pieces, placed 
in 8 or 3 layers alternately with sliced potatoes into an earthen- 
ware buttered dish so that the top layer will be potatoes. 
Season each layer with salt, pepper and a little onion. 

The meat gravy which may be diluted with bouillon or 
water is poured over the wlhole until level with the potatoes; 
then put small pieces of butter on top and bake in the oven for 
11/^ hours. 

If you Ihave no left-over gravy then take 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, brown it, stir in 1% tablespoonfuls of flour, add water 
or bouillon, i/^ teaspoonful of meat extract, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
cream' (if on hand) , boil and pour over the potatoes and meat 
and bake. Serve in the earthen dish. 



No. 4— VEAL ROAST RAGOUT— BROWN. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 % lbs. of veal roast 1 tbsp. butter 

% pt. brown gravy 2 gherkins or 

1% tsps. sugar 4 sweet-sour pickles 

1^, tbsps. vinegar, (preferably 1% tbsps. of small pearl onions; 
wine vinegar) pickled ones preferred 

Preparation: If you have no left-over gravy then make 
a false gravy by directions given in No. 3. Add sugar and 
vinegar according to taste, cut pickles into small pieces and 



— 47- 



put into tihe gravy with the onions. Cut the meat into pieces 
and put it into the hot gravy ; it must not boil, otherwise the 
meat will be tough ; put another piece of butter on top and 



serve. 



No. 5— SHELLS FILLED WITH VEAL ROAST. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. veal roast % cup of cream 

iVz tbsps. of butter 1 cup of bouillon or water and 

2 tbsps. of flour % tsp. meat extract 

Salt, pinch of pepper % tbsp. of Parmesan cheese, 

3 tbsps. of white wine grated 

Juice of % lemon 1 tbsp. of rolls, grated 

Preparation: The butter is melted and flour stirred in. 
Stew it and add water or bouillon (if you take water, use 
14 teaspoonful of meat extract), cream, white wine, salt, 
pepper, lemon juice. The gravy must boil. Taste it to make 
sure that it may not be either too salty, too sweet, or too 
sour. 

Chop tIhe veal roast and put it into the gravy. The mix- 
ture should be pretty thick; fill it into the shells, sprinkle 
with the Parmesan cheese and roll crumbs and place small 
pieces of butter on top. Then bake them in the oven to a 
light yellow color which requires 10 minutes. Serve at once. 



No. 6— VEAL ROAST PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. veal roast Salt 

% part of an onion chopped fine 1 pinch of pepper 
3 tsps. of parsley, chopped fine % cup of sweet cream 
% lb. of butter, good measure 1 roll, grated 
3 eggs % pt. of tomato or sardine gravy 

1 tsp. of Parmesan cheese 

Preparation: The veal roast is chopped fine. Three- 
fourths of the butter is creamed, and the 3 yolks stirred in, 
meat, salt, pepper, Parmesan cheese, roll crumbs, cream, pars- 
ley, all well mixed. The chopped onion is cooked in butter 
for a little while and then stirred in. 

The white of egg is beaten stifif and also added to the 
mass. A tin pudding-mold is buttered and strewn with roll 
crumbs, the mixture put in, and the closed mold set in a 
steamer over boiling water and steamed for one hour. 

Dump the pudding on a hot platter and pour over it to- 
mato or sardine gravy. 



— 48 — 

No. 7— VEAL ROAST SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. veal roast 1 tsp. of mustard 

3 yolks of eggs % qt. of milk 

1 tbsp. of flour % tbsp. of butter 

2 tsps. of salt 4 mustard pickles 
Some pepper 2 tbsps. of pearl onions 

3 tbsps. of wine vinegar 

Preparation: Milk, flour, yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, vine- 
gar, and butter are stirred to a gravy and brought to boil. It 
requires 10 minutes time till the gravy is thick and smooth. 
Veal roast and pickles are cut into thin slices. Meat, pickles 
and onions are put into layers in a dish and between each twro 
layers a few spoonfuls of gravy, concluding with gravy over 
the top. 

Three hard boiled eggs quartered and placed on or around 
the salad makes it look nice. 



No. 8— SADDLE OF VEAL. 

Quantity for 10 Persons. 
6 — 7 lbs. of veal saddle % lb. of bacon 

Some salt 1 cup of cream 

1 pinch of pepper 2 % tbsps. of flour 

% cup of butter, or good roast drippings 

Preparation: The saddle of veal is well prepared by the 
butcher so it will lie flat in the pan. Skin and scald the veal 
and lard it with bacon, tlhen sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and put into the pan. Heat the butter, pour it over the meat 
and set it into a medium hot oven. Pour a little water over 
once in a while so the butter does not get too brown; the 
roast must be basted every 10 minutes to make it juicy. It 
requires 1 or II/2 hours roasting to make it tender. One- 
quarter of an hour before done put in the flour and cream. 
The gravy must be strained before serving. The kidneys may 
be removed, cut into thin slices, arranged around the roast 
with the pieces overlapping each other like scales. 

Remarks: The gravy may be prepared in various ways. 
Instead of cream take i/4 cup of Madeira or red wine and cut 
truffles into thin slices and put into the gravy. 

Another way is to take cream' and champignons and lemon 
juice. 

The left-over roast may be utilized for ragout, gulash, 
fricassee, meat dumplings or in a pudding made of roast and 
potatoes. The bones are split and used to make bouillon. 



— 49 — 

No. 9— ROAST VEAL LOIN WITH KIDNEY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of veal loin with the % lb. of butter or lard 

kidney 1 tbsp. of flour 

Salt % cup of cream 

1 pinch of pepper ^ cup of water 

Preparation: Pound the meat and sprinkle witlh salt and 
pepper. Cut the kidney off and if it is very fat, cut some of 
the fat off and render it to be used for frying or cooking. The 
roast is then put on and basted with hot butter or lard ; the 
kidney is put in with the roast. Let it roast until well done 
and baste it frequently. Shortly before it is done, add flour 
to the gravy and then the cream. If there should be too little 
gravy, add more water and let it roast %, hour longer. Baste 
with the gravy several times and serve. The gravy must be 
strained, the kidney cut in slices and arranged around the 
roast for garnishing. 

No. lO^ROASTED FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. frieandeau or cushion of Vs lb. of butter 

veal % cup of cream 

1 small piece of bacon for 1 cup of water 

larding 1 tbsp. of flour 

Preparation: The frieandeau, which is a choice piece oi 
lean meat cut from the thickest part of the leg, is nicely 
trimmed, pounded and larded with bacon. It requires 1 to li/4 
hours to roast it. Prepare it just the same as directed in No. 9. 



No. 11— STUFFED BREAST OF VEAL. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 14 lbs. of breast of veal % lb. of butter for roasting 

Salt, 1 pinch of pepper 

' The Filling. 

% lb. of chopped beef or veal % tsp. of grated onion 

% lb. of chopped pork 2 eggs 

1 % soaked rolls Salt, 1 pinch of pepper 

1 tbsp. of butter 2 tsps. of flnely chopped parsley 

Juice of Vi lemon 

Preparation: The meat is pounded a little, washed, an 
incision is made between meat and bone and ^ teaspoonful of 
salt rubbed in. The ingredients for the filling are mixed well 
and put into the cavity formed by the cut, then sewed up. The 
Ys lb. of butter is heated, the stuffed breast put in and roasted 



-50- 



a little ; then add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, let it cook 10 minutes. 

Now pour in 1 cup of water, roast for l^^ hours, basting 
frequently. Strain the gravy and serve. 



No. 12— BREAST OF VEAL WITH BEER. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
5 lbs. of breast of veal % small onion 

Salt 3 thin slices of lemon 

4 pepper-corns 3 tbsps. of flour 

2 cloves % lb. of good butter, heaped 

1 bay-leaf 1 bottle of beer 

Preparation: This breast of veal should be from the 
brisket end as the meat is thicker and it does not have as much 
bone and skin as a piece from the middle breast. It must be 
pounded and tied with a white string into a good shape. Then 
it is roasted in the butter to a nice brown color on all sides. 
When this is done, put the meat into another dish. Put the 
flour and sliced onion into the butter, cook them brown and 
add the beer; then add all the spices, put in the meat, cover, 
and bake in oven slowly for 2 hours, turn over occasionally 
and baste with gravy. If you do not like beer, use water. The 
gravy must not be too thin ; if it gets too thick, add more 
water or beer; strain it. Garnish the roast with slices of 
lemon. 



No. 13— CALF'S HEAD RAGOUT. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 

1 calf's head with brain and % of tomato 

tongue Salt 

i/i lb. of beef Y2 pt. red wine 

% lb. of veal % lb. of butter 

% lb. of raw ham 1 onion 

6 pepper-corns % lb. of flour 

2 bay-leaves 1 pinch of paprika 
1 piece of tarragon % pt. of Madeira 

1 piece of carrot Juice of % lemon 

1 piece of celery ,1 tsp. of sugar 

1 piece of kohlrabi 4 hard boiled eggs cut into % ths 

1 piece of parsley root 

Preparation: The calf's head is split in half, the brain and 
the tongue taken out and soaked in water. Take the skin off 
the calf's head, brush the skin in water until it is white, 
then boil it with the tongue until tender. Put in the split 
head bones, all the soupgreens, salt, pepper-corns, bay-leaf, 



—51— 

tarragon and boil for 2 hours. The bouillon must be boiled 
down to 1 3^ or 3 qts. 

When the skin is done, cut it into squares. The tongue 
is skinned and cut into slices. Both are put into a dish and 
red wine, salt and pepper added. 

Beef, veal, ham and onion are cut into pieces and fried 
brown in % lb. of butter. Add % lb. of flour, cook a little 
and add the calf's head bouillon and Madeira and cook slowly 
for 2 hours. The gravy must be strained, the fat taken off and 
then seasoned. Put into it tihe pieces of skin and tongue, some 
lemon juice and sugar. Serve the ragout on a hot platter. Fry 
the brains to a light yellow, cut it in pieces and garnish the 
ragout with them ; also witlh scallops of pastry and the %ths 
of eggs. It is a fine side dish. 

No. 14— CALF'S TONGUE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 calves' tongues 1 bay-leaf 

Salt 2 cloves 

2 qts. of -water 1 slice of lemon 
6 pepper-corns % onion 

The Gravy. 
% cup of sour cream 2 tbsps. of capers 

% lb. of butter % tsp. of sugar 

3 tbsps. of flour 2 yolks of eggs 

2 tbsps. of lemon juice Salt, 1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation : The tongues must be fresh and washed well, 
cooked until tender in 2 qts. of water with all the given in- 
gredients, tihen skinned and cut into slices. 

The Gravy: Butter is heated, flour stirred in, bouillon 
added and cooked well with lemon juice, cream, sugar and 
capers. 

The slices of tongue are put in the gravy and heated, the 
yolks of eggs stirred in and then served. The gravy must not 
be too thin. The slices of tongue may be salted, dipped into 
yolks of eggs and roll crumbs and fried in butter. 

No. 15— CALF'S BRAINS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 calves' brains 1 egg 

Some salt % cup of grated rolls 

1 pinch of pepper 1 qt. of water 

Preparation: The brains are soaked in water. One 
quart of water is brought to boil, the brains put in and boiled 
for 5 minutes, then taken out and the small v^ins and skin re- 



, — 52 — 

moved, then salted and peppered. Beat the egg well, dip the 
brains in and then in roll crumibs and fry in hot butter to a 
golden yellow. 

Remarks: When the brains have been thus prepared, 
drip a few drops of lemon juice on and then bake, or, it may 
be served with lemon slices. 

No. 16— VEAL FRICASSEE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2% lbs. breast of veal (brisket) 4 pepper-corns 

2 qts. of water 2 cloves 

% onion Vz bay-leaf 

Salt 

Gravy. 

3 tbsps. of butter 2 yolks of eggs 

2 tbsps. of flour and bouillon 1 wineglassful of white wine 

Preparation: The meat is cut into nice pieces and the 
cartilage left on. Scald it for l^ minute and drain well. With 
the 2 qts. of water, onion, salt and spices, it is boiled until 
tender. Boil down the bouillon to % of a quart so it is very- 
strong. It requires 1 hour to cook the meat done. 

The Giravy. 
Heat the butter, put in the flour and stew a little. Butter 
and flour must remain white, stir in the veal bouillon gradu- 
ally that the gravy may become smooth. Then add the white 
wine and cook 1 minute, stir in the yolks of eggs and stop 
cooking. The meat, wlhich has been kept hot, is put into the 
gravy and served. Rice cooked in water and bouillon is nice 
served with this. Place the meat in the middle of the platter 
and garnish with the rice. 

No. 17— VEAL GULASH. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 14 lbs. of veal 1 pinch of pepper 

1 small onion 1 tbsp. of flour 

1 tbsp. of butter 1 cup of water 

Salt 
Preparation: The meat is cut into I14 inch squares. The 
onion is cut into small cubes and fried slig*htly in the butter, 
the meat is then added and stewed 10 minutes. Add the flour, 
salt and pepper and stew 5 minutes more. The water is then 
poured in and covered up. Stir it once in a while and let it 
cook until done, which will require about I14 hours. Gulash 
must not be too juicy. 



—53 — 

No. 18— UNBREADED VEAL CUTLETS. 

(Chops). 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 lbs. veal chops Juice of % lemon 

% lb. of butter % tbsp. of capers 

Salt % tbsp. of meat extract if 

1 pinch of pepper necessary 

% cup of cream 1 cup of water 

Preparation : The cutlets are cut from the back, each one 
containing a bone. It is pounded, shaped neatly and sprinkled 
with salt and pepper. The butter is heated, the cutlets put in 
and fried brown on both sides, then put on platter. Put into 
the butter the % tablespoonful of flour and brown it. Should 
there be too muclh butter, take some out before putting in the 
flour, then pour into the butter and flour one cup of water, 
salt if necessary, lemon juice and cream. Press the capers 
through a sieve and stir into the gravy. Put the cutlets into 
this gravy, cover the pan and stew 10 minutes, then serve. If 
the gravy is too lig^ht brown, add the y^ teaspoonful of meat 
extract. 

Remarks: Anyone who does not like the taste of capers 
and lemon juice may leave them out, also the cream. If you 
wish the gravy very fine, leave off the above and add cham- 
pignons and finely chopped or cut truffles and 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of Maderia. 



No. 19— BREADED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 lbs. of veal cutlets Salt, pepper 

1 egg Roll crumbs, or cracker crumbs 

1 tbsp. of milk % lb. of butter 

Preparation: The cutlets are pounded, shaped neatly and 
sprinkled witlh salt and pepper. The egg is mixed well with 
the milk; in case you have some white of ^^% left over, use 
that with milk, dip the cutlets into it, then into the roll or 
cracker crumbs and place them into the hot butter to brown on 
both sides. Put tihe fried cutlets on a platter. 

The Gravy: Put y^ tablespoonful of flour into the hot 
cutlet butter and stew, add a half cupful of water, cook a little 
while, pour it over the cutlets, garnish with lemon slices and 
serve. 



— 5,4 — 

No. 20— VEAL CUTLETS AF A FINE SIDE-DISH. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 

3 lbs. of veal cutlets Salt, pepper 

1 lb. of sweetbreads % lb. of butter 

% lb. of boiled calf's tongue 1 tbsp. of Parmesan cheese 

1 pt. can of champignons 1 tbsp. of crab butter 

1 small can of truffles 

Preparation : The cutlets are pounded, salted and peppered 
and fried to a light brown on both sides in Ys lb. of butter. 

The tongue is cooked well done in water with salt, a piece 
of onion, 4 pepper-corns, 2 cloves, 1 bay-leaf; 14 hour before 
done, put in the sweetbreads. When both are done, skin 
them and chop them or cut them into cubes. 

The gravy: Put 2 tablespoonfuls of flour into the cutlet 
butter, stew a little while, then add bouillon in Which the 
tongue and sweet^breads were cooked, add some of the cham- 
pignon juice, a wine glass of red wine, 1 tablespoonful of 
lemon juice, 1 teaspoonful of sugar and cook for % hour, strain 
and put champignons, finely chopped truffles, sweetbreads and 
tongue in the sauce and heat. 

Put the cutlets into an oblong or round casserole, strew 
with Parmesan cheese, drip some crab butter over. The rag- 
out is poured over them and the whole is baked in the oven 
for ^4: hour and when served in the casserole, it is a very fine 
dish. 



No. 21— CHOPPED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 lbs. of veal cutlets Some flour 

Salt, pepper % lb. of butter 

1 — 2 eggs 

Preparation : The cutlets are chopped and cut ofif the rib- 
bone. Remove all tendons and skin, and shape the chopped 
meat round and press it against the bone. Beat the egg well. 
Salt and pepper the cutlets, dip carefully into the egg and then 
into the flour. Now heat the butter and fry the cutlets in it 
to a light brown on both sides. Handle them carefully so they 
will not fall apart, then take them out and place them on a 
hot platter. Put 14 cup of water into cutlet butter, salt if 
necessary and cook, pour over cutlets, garnish with lemon 
slices and serve. 



— 55 — 

No. 22— BREADED VEAL CHOPS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 % lbs. of veal 1 tbsp. of milk 

Salt, pepper 1 cup of roll or cracker crumbs 

% tbsp. of flour % lb. of butter or half butter and 

1 or 2 whites of egg half lard 

% cup of water 
Preparation: The meat for this must be from the loin or 
leg. It is cut into % inch sfices, pounded, salted and pepper- 
ed. Beat the white of egg well or take egg and milk, dip the 
pieces of veal in and then into the roll or cracker crumbs. Fry 
them brown in the hot butter or lard, this will require 10 min- 
utes. They must not be rare-inside. For the ^ravy, put V^ 
tablespoonful of flour into the lard or butter, brown and add 
% cup of water ; add a little salt if necessary, cook well, then 
pour it over the meat, garnish with lemon slices and serve. 

No. 23— VIENNA VEAL-SCHNITZEL, 
(VEAL CUTLETS). 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 % lbs. of veal from the leg Juice of % lemon 
Salt, pepper % lb. of butter 

2 eggs 6 eggs 

Flour 

Preparation: The veal is cut into six % inclh thick slices, 
pounded, salted, peppered. Beat the eggs well, dip the meat 
into it and then sprinkle with flour. Heat the butter and fry 
the slices to a light brown on both sides. While they are fry- 
ing, drip the lemon juice on. When well done, put them on 
a hot platter. Make the gravy with % cup of water poured in- 
to frying butter and salt if necessary, cook and pour over the 
cutlets. The eggs are fried and placed on each cutlet care- 
fully so the yolk does not run out. 

No. 24— VEAL CUTLET OR SCHNITZEL A LA * 
HOLSTEIN. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 % lbs. of veal from the leg 1 tbsp. ol capers 

2 eggs 1 small pickle 

Salt 6 sardines 

1 pinch of paprika 6 slices or six-eighths of a lemon 
% lb. of butter % tbsp. of flour. 

4 hard boiled eggs % cup of water 

2 tbsps. of pickled beets, chopped % tsp. of meat extract 

1 tbsp. of onions 
Preparation : The meat is cut into six % inch thick slices. 



— 56 — 

sprinkled with salt and paprika and dipped into well beaten 
egg. The butter is heated and the meat fried brown on both 
sides, then put on a hot platter. The i/i tablespoonful of flour 
stirred into the butter and % cup of water added with i/^ tea- 
spoonful of meat extract and salt, if necessary, then boiled 
and poured over the meat. 

The hard boiled eggs are chopped fine, the whites separate 
from the yolks. The sardines are drained and cut into halves 
lengthwise, then rolled up. Now arrange your dish neatly, 
little Iheaps of beets, onions, pickle, white and yolk of egg, 
lemon slices on each cutlet. The rolled sardines in the middle 
of the lemon slice, heaps of -the rest around each and the 
capers singly in between. Should be prepared quickly but 
appetizingly. 

No. 25— VEAL CUTLETS IN WHITE WINE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 ^ lbs. of veal from the leg % celery root, cut into dainty 

% lb. of butter pieces 

Salt, pepper ' 10 small pieces of cauliflower 

1 kohlrabi, cut into dainty pieces % pt. of white wine. 
% carrot, cut into dainty pieces 1 cup of water 
% parsley root, cut into dainty 2 tbsps. of flour, 
pieces ^ 

Preparation: The meat is cut into slices % inch thick, 
salted and peppered, then fried ligiht brown on both sides in 
the heated butter and placed on a platter. 

For the gravy stir 3 tablespoonfuls of flour into the but- 
ter and brown, then add water and wine, the vegetables and 
salt. The vegetables must be cooked very tender, then put in 
the veal schnitzel or cutlets and cook slowly for 30 minutes. 
The whole, schnitzel, gravy, and vegetables, is served in one 
dish. It makes a fine dislh. The gravy must not be thick. 



No. 26— VEAL STEAK FROM THE LEG. 

Quantity for G Persons. 
2 % lbs. of veal 1 pinch of white pepper 

% lb. of butter % cup of water 

Salt 

Preparation: The steak must not be cut too thick. Re- 
move the skin from the steak and pound it well, then fry it in 
the butter on medium fire for 14 hour, turning and basting it 
several times. Serve it on a hot platter and sprinkle witlh salt 
and pepper and put a little fresh butter over the whole. 



-57- 



For the gravy, pour into the frying butter 14 cup of water, 
cook well and strain, then serve separately. Garnish the steak 
with lemon slices. 



No. 27— SWEETBREADS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of sweetbreads Roll crumbs or cracker crumbs 

Salt, pepper % lb. of butter 

1 — 2 eggs 

Preparation: The sweetbreads are cooked in salt water 
for 10. minutes, then taken out and skinned. It is then cut 
lengthwise if it is very thick and sprinkled with salt and 
pepper. The egg is beaten well and the sweetbreads dipped 
into that and then into the roll or cracker crumbs. Then it is 
fried to a golden yellow in the butter. For the gravy, pour a 
little water into the hot butter and boil, then pour over the 
sweetbreads. This is a good dish with vegetables. 



No. 28— SWEETBREADS IN SHELLS OR OTHER 
SMALL MOLDS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% lbs. of sweetbreads 2 tbsps. of butter 

% pt. of champignons, scant 2 tbsps. of flour 

3 truffles Some bouillon 

% wine glass of white wine % tbsp. of Parmesan cheese 

Salt % tbsp. of roll crumbs 

1 pinch of pepper V2 cup of cream 

V4, tsp. of meat extract 

Preparation: The sweetbreads are boiled in % qts. of 
salt water until tender, which requires ^4: hour. Take them 
out, skin them well and cut them into very small pieces. Boil 
down the bouillon of it to 1^2 cups. 

The Gravy: Heat tihe butter and stir in the flour and 
stew but do not brown it, then add the bouillon, cream, wine, 
lemon juice and juice of the champignons, salt and pepper and 
cook until it thickens. 

The champignons and trufifles are chopped fine and put 
into the gravy witlh the sweetbreads. Heat and fill into shells 
or other small molds, sprinkle with a little Parmesan cheese, 
a few roll crumbs and a little piece of butter and bake in ov^n 
light brown, which requires 10 minutes. This makes a fine 
side-dish. 



— 58— 

No. 29— PUFF-PASTE PATTIES FILLED WITH 
SWEETBREAD RAGOUT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. fresh and very cold butter % pt. of cold water 
% lb. good flour 1 tbsp. of strong brandy 

1 white of egg This makes 6 small patties. 

The Filling. 
% lbs. of sweetbreads 1 % tbsps. of flour 

% pt. of champignons 1 cup bouillon 

3 truffles % cup of cream 

1/3 wine glass of white wine % tsp. of meat extract 

Juice of % lemon Salt and 1 pinch of pepper 

1% tbsps. of butter 

The Paste. 

Preparation: The flour is made into a smooth paste with 
water, y2 of the egg and brandy, then rolled out.- The butter,, 
which must be very hard, is placed on the paste in a dhunk, 
the paste folded around it and then rolled out aga.m. The 
board and rolling pin must be well covered with flour. This 
is repeated 4 or 5 times. The last time roll out the paste %, 
inch thick, cut out with a tumbler or cake cutter, then cut 
narrow strips and fasten them to the edge of the disk by 
brushing them first with the egg. Set the strips one on top 
of another until the edge is 1^2 inch (high, put a small mold in 
the opening. With a smaller tumbler, cut out the covers. 
Bake them both light brown or yellow. After cooling off, 
carefully remove the small mold, fill the patties with the rag- 
out, cover witih the baked covers and bake the patties 10 min- 
utes in medium hot oven. Serve at once. 

The filling is made like the one in No. 28. For 6 patties 
cut out 6 bottoms and six covers and use the other paste for 
strips. 

No. 30— CROQUETTES OF SWEETBREADS. 

Quantity for 4 Persons. 
1 lb. of sweetbreads Roll crumbs for breading 

% pt. can champignons 2 tbsps. of butter 

1 % tbsps. of lemon juice 3 tbsps. of flour 

2 yolks of eggs 1 cup bouillon 

2 tbsps. of white wine % cup champignon juice 

Salt, pepper % cup of cream 

1 egg Good lard for baking 

Preparation: The sweetbreads are boiled in salt water 
until almost done, then skinned and cut into cubes. 

The Gravy: Heat the butter and stir in the flour, add 1 



— 59 — 

cup of bouillon, white wine, lemon juice, cream, champigfnon 
juice, salt and pepper, then boil. It must be savory and thick. 

The champignons are cut into small pieces and put into 
the gravy, also the sweetbread cubes. Then stir in the yolks of 
2 eggs. Cool it and shape into oblong croquettes. Beat the egg 
well, dip in the croquettes and then into the roll crumbs. Bake 
in deep lard to a golden yellow color. If the croquettes are too 
soft, add more flour. If you want them^ as a side-dish, take 
only half the quantity given. 

Remarks: You can make croquettes from remnants of 
veal and prepare them much more simply. See No. 31. 



No. 31— CROQUETTES FROM VEAL REMNANTS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. of veal 1 cup of bouillon or 

Salt, pepper 1 cup of water mixed with 

1 % tbsps. of lemon juice % tsp. of meat extract 

2 yolks of eggs % cup of cream 

2 tbsps. of butter or drippings 1 egg and roll crumbs for 

3 tbsps. of flour breading 

Good lard for baking 

Preparation: The meat is cut very fine. The preparation 
is the same as in No. 30, Sweetbread Croquettes. 



No. 32— MEAT BALLS FROM VEAL REMNANTS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 % lbs. of veal 1 pinch of nutmeg 

2 eggs 1 tsp. of capers 
1% tbsp. of butter Salt, pepper 

1 tbsp. of lemon juice Roll crumbs for breading 

Preparation: The meat is chopped fine or ground twice 
and mixed well with the eggs, salt, pepper, lemon juice, capers 
and nutmeg. It is then formed into oblong shapes, dipped in 
roll crumbs and baked or fried to a light brown in hot butter 
or lard, then placed on a platter. 

For the gravy put 1/4 tablespoonful of flour into the but- 
ter or drippings, steep and add % cup of water or bouillon or 
left-over gravy. Strain and pour over the meat balls and 
serve. They are also good served cold. 



— 60^ 

No. 33— VEAL HASH FROM REMNANTS, 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. of veal % tbsp. of flour 

1 tsp. of chopped onions % cup of cream 

Salt, pepper Some water if necessary 

1% tbsps. of buttfer 2 tbsps. of white wine 

Preparation : The meat is chopped and put into hot butter 
•with onions. Cook and then add V2 tablespoonful of flour, salt, 
pepper and cream and boil slowly for 5 minutes. If it g^ets 
too thick, add more water or cream and the wine, if you wish. 
Serve on fresih wheat bread toast. This is a fine breakfast 

dish. 

No. 34^LIVER DUMPLINGS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 Vi lbs. of calf liver Salt, pepper 

% lb. of bacon 1 pinch of nutmeg 

3 rolls % onion 

% lb. of butter, good measure 3 qts. of salt water or broth for 

4 eggs cooking 

2 cups of flour 

Preparation: The liver and bacon are chopped very fine 
or ground twice. The rolls are grated and browned in butter. 
The onions are cut fine and cooked or fried to a light yellow 
in 1^ tablespoonful of butter. 

Mix well the crumbs, onion, eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 
flour, liver and bacon, then cut out dumplings with a floured 
round wooden ladle as large as a medium sized potato. The 
salt water must boil, then put in the dumplings and cook for 
10 minutes. Put them in a dislh or platter and baste with 
browned butter in which some roll crumbs or onions are fried. 

Try one dumpling first and if it does not stay whole, add 
more flour. 

Sauerkraut will go well with this dish. 

No. 35— VEAL OR CALF'S LIVER WITH BREAKFAST 

BACON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 % lbs. of calf's liver 1 tbsp. of flour 
V2 lb. of bacon 1 onion 

Salt 1 cup of water 

1 pinch of pepper Flour for dipping 

1 oz. of butter 

Preparation : Liver is cut into 1/4 inch strips and bacon in 
3x4 inch slices. The bacon is fried light yellow, then put on 
a platter and kept hot. The liver is sprinkled with salt and 



— 61— 



pepper, dipped in flour and baked to a light brown in butter 
or the bacon drippings. Then placed on the same platter with 
the bacon and served. Stir into the bacon drippings or but- 
ter 1 tablespoonful of flour and the sliced onions, boil and 
add water or bouillon. Strain the gravy and serve. 



No. 36— LARDED AND BAKED CALF'S LIVER. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 % lbs. of calf's liver in one 1 carrot 

whole piece 1 onion 

Salt, pepper 1 small piece of celery 

% lb. of bacon for larding 5 pepper-corns 

ii lb. of butter 2 cloves 

% pt. of cream 1 bay-leaf 

1 tbsp. of flour 1 pt. light white wine 

Preparation: The white wine, carrot, onion, celery, pep- 
per-corns, cloves, bay-leaf, 1 pinch of salt are covered and 
boiled slowly for i/^ 'hour. 

The liver is skinned, larded, salted and peppered and the 
cooked wine with contents poured over. Let stand for 10 
hours. After that, roast the liver in hot butter in the oven 
for 30 minutes and baste frequently. During the last 10 min- 
utes, pour the wine in which the liver Ihad been lying over it 
and boil. Stir in 1 tablespoonful of flour and cream and boil 
again. The liver is served on a hot platter. The gravy is 
strained and served separately. Garnish the dish with lemon 
slices and parsley. 

No. 37— LARDED BRAISED CALF'S LIVER. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2% lbs. calf's liver, whole 1 bay-leaf 

Salt, pepper 3 cloves 

% lb. of bacon for larding 6 pepper-corns 

1 carrot cut in pieces 1 pinch of nutmeg blossom 

1 piece of parsley root % pt. red wine or •\,hite beer, 

1 onion, sliced (weiss beer) 

% lb. butter 1% tbsps. of flour 

Preparation : The liver is skinned and larded and sprinkled 
with salt and pepper, fried quickly until liglht brown in % 
lb. of butter. Flour, onion, carrot and parsley root and all the 
spices are added and all fried in the liver butter a while. Then 
pour in the red wine or beer and enough bouillon to cover the 
liver. Cover and bake in the oven ll^ hours. Serve on a hot 
platter and strain the gravy. 

Remarks: You can fry the larded liver without wine or 
beer, using only bouillon and i^ cup of cream. 



— 62— 

No. 38— VEAL KIDNEYS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 veal kidneys 1 tbsp. ol flour 

% lb. raw ham 3 tbsps. of champignons 

% lb. butter or mushrooms 

% onion 1% tbsps. of lemon juice 

1 cup veal roast gravy % tsp. of sugar 

4 tbsps. of red wine or Madeira 

Preparation: The veal kidneys are fried, some fat cut off, 
then they are cut in thick slices, sprinkled with salt and pep- 
per, fried one minute in the % lb. of butter until light brown 
and put on a hot platter. The ham is sliced and fried in the 
same butter rapidly about 2 minutes on both sides and placed 
on the platter with the kidney slices. In the same butter, fry 
the sliced onions, flour and the sliced champignons. Pour in 
the veal gravy, Madeira or red wine, lemon juice and sugar, 
boil and taste. Put in the meat slices and heat again but do 
not cook; serve at once. Toasted wheat bread served with 
this dish or placed around the edge of the platter is very nice. 

No. 39— VEAL KIDNEY ON BREAD OR ROLLS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of veal kidneys or rem- 1 yolk of egg 

nants of same 1 tbsp. of butter 

1 tbsp. of roll crumbs 3 rolls or wheat bread 

1 tbsp. of capers Parmesan cheese and a little 

1 tbsp. of chopped parsley butter 

1 tsp. of chopped onions 

Preparation : The calf kidney must be cooked tender and 
chopped fine, then mixed well with the roll crumbs, capers, 
parsley, onions, yolk of egg, butter, salt and pepper. Cut the 
rolls or the wheat bread in slices, cover each thickly with the 
mixture and sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Put on a few 
drops of melted butter and bake in a medium hot oven for 5 
minutes. Serve this dish with asparagus, cauliflower or 
spinage. 

If you do not like tihe taste of cheese, leave it out. 

No. 40L-VEAL OR CALF'S TRIPE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 calves' tripes Salt 

% lb. of butter 8 pepper-corns 

3 or 4 tbsps. of flour 1 onion 
Bouillon 1 bay-leaf 
2 yolks of eggs 2 cloves 

Water 
Preparation : The calf's tripe must be fresh. It is cleaned 



— 63 — 
well and scalded several times, then rubbed down with salt 
and left in water for ^ day. After that it is cut into 3 inch 
squares and cooked until tender. Now add salt, pepper-corns, 
bayleaf, cloves and onion. Heat the butter and flour, take some 
of the bouillon when the tripe is done and pour it into the 
butter to make the gravy thick and stir in 2 yolks of eggs. 

Put the tripe and gravy on one platter and serve. The 
bouillon may boil down to leave just enough for the gravy, 
making it pretty strong. 

No. 41— STEWED VEAL OR CALF'S TONGUE 

WITH RAISINS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 calf tongues . 3 qts. of water 

% lb. washed raisins Salt 

1 slice of lemon peel 6 pepper-corns 
% pt. of white wine % onion 

2% tbsps. of butter 1 bay-leaf 

2 % tbsps. of flour 2 cloves 

Juice of % lemon 
Preparation: Soak the calf tongues in water. Cover and 
cook slowly in 3 qts. of water with salt, lemon peel, bay-leaf, 
cloves, onion and pepper; when tender, skin and slice. Brown 
the butter and flour and add the tongue bouillon, white wine, 
raisins and lemon juice. Cook i^ hour and season with sugar, 
salt or lemon juice. Put the tongues into the gravy and heat 
but do not boil. The gravy must be thick. Serve. Potato 
dumplings are nice with this meat. 

No. 42— STUFFED VE^AL CROWN ROAST. 

Quantity for 8 — 10 Persons. 
1 saddle of veal Salt according to taste 

% lb. chopped veal 1 pinch of pepper 

1 qt. fresh champignons or 1 piece of butter 

1 pt. canned champignons % soaked roll 

2 eggs Small peeled potatoes 

Preparation: The saddle of veal is freed from all fat and 
the rib-bones are freed from meat 2 inches from the end. The 
prepared saddle of veal is tied together so it looks like a crown. 

The fresh champignons are cooked until tender in butter 
and some bouillon or water. Add the 2 eggs, the chopped 
veal, pepper, salt and roll and mix well. This stuffing may or 
may not be stewed a little with butter and then put into the 
crown of veal. On the small ribs stick some potatoes so that 
they will not get too brown. 

Roast the stuflfed crown of veal 2 or 2i/^ hours, same as 
veal roast. 



— 64— 



CHAPTER 4. 

MUTTON. 



1. Leg. 6. Neck. 

2-3. Loin and small Ribs, or 7. Breast. 

Loin Chops and Rib Chops. 8. Head 
4-5. Shoulder and Round Shoulder. 



LAMB OR MUTTON. 

Boiled and roasted mutton. 

How scraps of mutton may be utilized. 

The best time for lambs is from beginning^ of December 
to the end of April. Good lamb meat is hard or firm and white 
and the fat also. Avoid buying soft, reddish meat of lamb or 
mutton. The forequarter is the. most tender part of lamb. 

The wether furnishes the best meat when he is 3 to 3 
years old. Up to one year it is called lamb meat or lamb, 
older than that it is called mutton. Good mutton must be 
juicy, red and covered with a layer of white fat. 

Best parts for roasts are leg and loin. 

Best pieces for braising and stews are leg, loin and breast. 

Small pieces for frying, cutlets and steaks from le^. 



—65— 

Best meat to make bouillon is all lean meat, the feet, 
scraps of cutlets and bones. 

Mutton is less nourishing than beef. It may be kept fresh 
in vinegar, buttermilk or sweet milk. 

Especially old mutton will be more palatable after being 
kept in vinegar or milk for a while. 



No. 1— LEG OF MUTTON, ENGLISH STYLE. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
6 lbs. of leg of mutton 1 tbsp. of butter 

Salt 1 small bunch of peppermint 

1 pinch of pepper Some vinegar and sugar 

Preparation: Remove some fat from the leg of mutton, 
wash it well, pound it, salt and pepper it, and put into oven 
with % pint of boiling water. Add 1 tablespoonful of butter 
and roast 1% hours, basting frequently ; the roast will be quite 
rare inside. If you wish it well done, roast 2 to 2^ hours. 

Waslh the peppermint well and chop it very fine, stir it 
with vinegar and sugar and serve with the meat. If you do 
not like peppermint sauce, pour off all fat from the roast, add 
1% tablespoonfuls of flour, brown it and pour in 1 cup of 
water, ^4 cup of cream and let this boil ; then season with salt, 
strain the gravy and serve it with the meat. 



No. 2— LEG OF MUTTON IN MILK. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
6 lbs. of leg of mutton % bay-leaf 

2 — 3 qts. of milk % lb. of butter 

% lb. of bacon for larding 2 tbsps. of flour 

Salt, pepper % cup of sweet or sour cream 

2 cloves A tew drops of lemon juice 

% onion 1 cup of water 

Preparation: The membrane and fat are removed from 
the leg of mutton and it is then well pounded and put into 
sweet milk for 2 or 3 days, turning it twice eyery dav. The 
milk should cover the roast. In winter leave it in the milk 
for 3 days, in summer only 2. After this wash it off, lard it, 
salt and pepper it, put into oven with water, the spices and 
onion. After roasting it for ^/^ hour, add the butter, roast for 
2 hours, basting frequently. 

During the last % hour take off some fat, stir in 3 tablcT 
spoonfuls of flour and add 1 cup of water, gradually, also the 
cream and a few drops of lemon juice ; now leave it in the 
oven a little longer. If the gravy has boiled down too much 



— 66 — 

in the last y2 hour, add some more water. The grravy must 
be. smooth and strained before serving with the roast. This 
is a very good dish. 

No. 3— LEG OF MUTTON WITH RED WINE. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
6 lbs. of leg of mutton 10 pepper-corns 

Vs lb. of bacon % lb. of butter 

10 sardines Salt 

1 qt. of thin vinegar 1% tbsps. of flour 

2 small onions % pt. of red wine 

3 cloves Vz pt. of water 

1 bay-leaf 

Preparation : The leg of mutton is cleared from all mem- 
brane and fat, pounded and larded. The sardines are drained 
and cut lengthwise into halves and the leg of mutton larded 
with them. The thus prepared leg of mutton is covered with 

1 qt. of vinegar, onion slices, cloves, pepper-corns and bay- 
leaf and left in the vinegar for 24 hours, turning it over once 
in a while. 

After this time the leg of mutton is fried with the butter 
and after i^ hour the flour is stirred in, add salt and pepper, 
the % pint of water and gradually the red wine. The roast is 
cooked slowly for 2 or 21^ hours and turned and basted sever- 
al times until well done. The gravy is strained and served 
with the roast. 

Remarks: If you do not like the taste of sardines, lard 
witlh bacon only. 

No. 4— ROASTED LEG OF MUTTON WITH 
CHAMPIGNONS. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
6 lbs. leg of mutton 8 pepper-corns 

% lb. of butter Juice of one lemon 

2 tbsps. of flour 2 cloves 

2 wine glasses of Madeira V2 bay-leaf 

% pt. champignons Water or bouillon 

Salt 

Preparation : The leg of mutton is freed from all fat and 
membrane, salted and fried in the % lb. of butter to a nice 
brown on both sides, and placed on a platter. Brown the flour 
in the same butter, add Vg onion and water or bouillon, salt 
and spices. Put the meat back into this gravy, it must be half 
way covered with it, cover it up and roast in oven 2% hours. 
Then take meat out again, strain the gravy, take off all fat, 



— 67 — 

pour the gravy back into tlie roaster, add Madeira and lenjon 
juice, place the meat into it, cover, and cook it i/^ hour longer. 
Finally cut up the champignons and put them into the gravy. 
Leg of mutton and gravy may be served on the same platter 
or separately. The gravy must be smooth, not thick. 

No. 5— STUFFED ROASTED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 

The preparation and contents are the same as No. 4. 

The bone is taken out, the cavity is filled with a stuffing 
as described in No. 11, of the previous chapter, Stuffed Veal 
Breast, and is cooked just the same as No. 4, of this chapter. 
You may omit the champignons. 

No. 6— MUTTON STEW. 

Quantity for 8 Persons. 

5 lbs. of leg of mutton % carrot 

% tbsp. of caraway seeds % parsley root 

Salt Water 

1 large onion sliced A thin white cloth 

Preparation : The leg of mutton must be of a good qual- 
ity. It is pounded, washed and tied into a thin white cloth ; 
then put into boiling water; salt, onion, carrot, parsley root, 
caraway seeds added and cooked slowly for Si^ hours. The 
leg of mutton must be white outside and pink inside and 
juicy. Garnish with parsley and serve. A muetard or caper 
gravy is served with this meat. 

No. 7— LARDED SADDLE OF MUTTON, MOCK 
VENISON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

6 lbs. of saddle of mutton. % pt. sweet or sour cream 
% lb. of butter A few drops of lemon juice 
% lb. of bacon for larding 1 tbsp. of flour 

Salt, pepper 

Preparation : The ribs of the saddle of mutton are chopped 
off, the outer hard membrane is trimmed off and the bones cut 
out. Then the meat is pounded and larded, strewn with salt 
and pepper and put into the pan with the % lb. of butter with 
which it is basted very often. Water is added from time to 
time and cooked one hour. Now the flour is stirred in, 14 cup 
of water and the cream and lemon juice added and boiled 
again % hour. The meat must be basted very often. The 
gravy is then strained and served with the meat. 



—68 — 

No. 8— SADDLE OF MUTTON A LA ENGLISH STYLE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 lbs. of saddle of mutton 1 pt. of water 

Salt, pepper, soupgreens 

Preparation: The saddle of mutton is pounded and 
skinned. The ribs are chopped off a little, the fat is left on. 
Now the meat is salted and peppered and put into the oven 
with 1 pint of boiling water, and soupgreens. Let it roast 1 
hour, basting frequently. Then serve. 

For the gravy, take 1 tablespoonful of flour, stir it into 
the drippings and add ^ cup of cream. Skim the gravy. You 
can also serve a peppermint sauce as in No. 1. A Bearnaise 
gravy is nice too. 

No. 9— MUTTON TENDERLOIN. 

Quantity for 4 Persons. 

2 mutton fillets % tbsp. of flour 
Vs lb. of bacon 1 cup of water 
Salt, pepper Juice of V2 lemon 

3 tbsps. of butter 2 tbsps. of white wine 

Bouillon 

Preparation: The two fillets are cut from a saddle of 
mutton, (they are situated below the ribs alongside of the 
back). Cut the fillets lengthwise and crosswise so they make 
8 pieces. Lard each piece nicely with tihe bacon, salt and pep- 
per it, put th* butter into the pan and fry quickly. Then stir 
in 1^ tablespoonful of flour and pour in enough bouillon or 
water mixed with meat extract so the fillets are almost cov- 
ered. Cover the pan and cook slowly 1^ hour. Finally add 
the lemon juice and wine. Strain the gravy and pour it on the 
fillets or serve separately. 



No. 10— STEWED RACK OF MUTTON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 lbs. rack or rib piece % onion 

% carrot Vs celery root 

V2 parsley root Salt 

% kohlrabi 3 qts. of water 

Preparation: Tihe rib-bones are partly chopped through 
and the whole piece of meat bound with string, then boiled 
slowly in 3 qts. of boiling water, salt and soupgreens. When 
done, put on a hot platter. A mustard or morel gravy is nice 
with it. The remnant of bouillon is used to cook vegetables 
in or for soup. 



—69— 

No. 11— MUTTON STEW WITH WHITE CABBAGE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

4 lbs. of lean mutton 2 tbsps. of butter 

1 large head of white cabbage "Water 

Salt 

Preparation: The cabbage is cut into 12 parts and put on 
the fire with boiling water, then cooked for 10 minutes. The 
water is then drained ofif and fresh boiling water put on. The 
meat is washed and salted, put in and cooked with the cab- 
bage slowly for 2y2 hours. Then it is "served on a hot plat- 
ter. The cabbage must not have too much gravy. If it is not 
rich enough, add more butter. Serve it with the meat and 

potatoes. 

No. 12— MUTTON STEAK. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 lbs. of mutton chops or cutlets 1 piece of butter 

Salt, pepper 
Preparation: The cutlets are pounded well, and the bones 
all trimmed out. A pan is larded with some mutton fat and 
heated. The meat is put in and fried on the stove i/4 hour, 
turning it over often. Serve on a hot platter, salt and pepper, 
and butter. A peppermint sauce, as in No. 1, is good with this 

meat. 

No. 13— MUTTON CUTLETS OR CHOPS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 lbs. of mutton chops Salt, pepper 

% lb. of butter Vz cup of water 

Preparation: The real cutlet piece is the loin with the 
upper ends of the ribs. Every cutlet must have a rib and be 
one inch thick. They are pounded, skinned and the fat cut 
oiif, salted and peppered. The butter is melted in a pan and 
the cutlets put in and fried 3 to 5 minutes. Then tihey are 
served on a hot platter. For gravy pour some hot water or 
bouillon into the frying butter and perhaps a little more salt. 
Pour the gravy over the cutlets and serve hot. 



No. 14— MUTTON CUTLETS BROILED. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 lbs. of mutton chops 1 piece of fresh butter 

Salt, pepper 

Preparation: The cutlets are pounded and placed on a 
broiler 5 minutes, turning them once ; placed on a hot platter, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, buttered and served at once. 



— 70— 

No. 15— BROILED BREADED MUTTON CHOiPS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 lbs. mutton chops 1 cup grated rolls 

Salt, pepper 3 tbsps. of Parmesan cheese 

% lb. of butter 

Preparation: Trim oS tlhe skin and fat, pound, salt and 
pepper the cutlets. Heat some butter and dip each cutlet in- 
to it, then into a mixture t)f roll crumbs and Parmesan cheese. 
Now broil to a ligfht brown on a broiler, which requires 5 
minutes. Serve on a hot platter and pour the rest of the 
melted butter over them. 

Remarks: You can also fry the cutlets in a pan; then 
you need an additional % lb. of butter. 



No. 16— MUTTON CHOPS WITH POTATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 % lbs. mutton chops 2 tbsps. of Parmesan or Swiss 
Salt, pepper cheese 

1 pt. cream or milk % lb. of butter 

% grated onion 2 lbs. boiled, chopped potatoes. 

3 yolks of eggs 

Preparation: There should be 12 pieces of chops; salt 
and pepper them and fry them brown on both sides in butter. 
The boiled potatoes are pressed through a potato masher and 
mixed well with the remainder of the butter, which is creamed 
with the yolks of 3 eggs, salt, grated onion, cheese, cream and 
the rest of the butter which is left in the pan. Half of this 
mixture is placed into a casserole, the fried cutlets are placed 
on top and the remainder of the mixture put on to cover them. 
Then strew bread crumbs over the whole and small pieces of 
butter and bake in a medium hot oven for i/^ to % hour. Serve 
in the casserole. 

No. 17— STEWED MUTTON CUTLETS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

4 lbs. of mutton cutlets 1 tbsp. of flour 

Salt, pepper Some bouillon or water mixed 

Some bacon for larding with % tsp. meat extract 

% pt. of champignons 2 tbsps. of butter 

4 truffles 

1 small wineglassful of Madeira or red wine 

Preparation: The cutlets must be 3 inches thick. They 
are pounded and larded with bacon stiips after the skin and 
fat have been removed from them, tlhen peppered and salted 



— 71 — 

and dipped in flour. Now they are quickly fried in butter and 
placed on a hot platter. 

For the gravy, brown the flour in the butter, add bouil- 
lon, wine, salt,, and the cutlets. Cover and stew until done. 
1/4 hour before they are done, skim the fat off and add the sliced 
champignons and dhopped truffles. Serve the cutlets and 
gravy on the same hot platter. It is best to warm the plates 
with such a dish. 

Remarks: You can prepare the cutlets more simply by 
omitting the champignons and truffles and putting 4 tomatoes 
into the gravy. Strain the gravy. 



No. 18— IRISH STEW. 

Mutton Cutlets stewed with all kinds of vegetables 
and Potatoes. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of mutton chops 2 lbs. of raw potatoes 

1 head of Savoy cabbage Bouillon or water 

5 kohlrabis % lb. of butter 

3 small onions Salt, pepper 

Vi head white cabbage 

Preparation: The vegetables and potatoes are cleaned 
and peeled well and cut into small pieces. In an iron kettle, 
which has been buttered, the vegetables are placed in layers, 
then a layer of cutlets, seasoned with salt and pepper ; on this 
a layer of potatoes and onions ; repeat this twice, taking care 
that you do not season too highly with salt. Potatoes must 
be tjhe last layer. Fill up with hot bouillon or water. Place 
a piece of butter on top. Stew or boil for 3 hours, well covered. 



No. 19— BAKED MUTTON KIDNEYS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
10 mutton kidneys Salt, pepper 

1 piece of butter Vz tbsp. of mustard 

Grated rye bread 

Preparation: The kidneys are cut half way through, 
skinned and rubbed with salt and pepper. Melted butter mixed 
with mustard is put over them and then they are dipped in 
rye bread crumbs, basted with butter and baked 15 minutes. 

This dish is very nice garnished with cooked vegetables. 



— 72 — 

No. 20— MUTTON KIDNEY PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
8 raw mutton kidneys 18 champignons 

1 small onion % cup of rice 
Salt, white pepper Bouillon or water 

2 tbsps. of butter 1 tbsp. of butter 
Juice of 1 lemon 2 yolks of eggs 

1 tbsp. of flour 

% pt. gravy or broth from the meat 

Preparation: The kidneys are sliced ^ inch thick. But- 
ter, onions and sliced champignons are cooked ; flour, gravy, 
salt and pepper are added. The sliced kidneys are put in and 
cooked slowly 15 minutes. Add lemon juice. 

The % cup of rice is boiled until soft in bouillon or water 
to a thick mush, then the butter and finally the 2 yolks of 
eggs are stirred into it. A pudding-mold is buttered and strewn 
with roll crumbs, then put in a layer of rice and a layer of 
meat, alternately, until all is in ; the last layer should be rice. 
Cover and cook in a steamer over a kettle of boiling water-vfor 

2 hours. After it is done, dump it on a hot platter and serve 
with Dutch gravy. 

No. 21— MUTTON RAGOUT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of mutton, lean, without Salt, pepper 

bones 2 tbsps. of flour 

1 large onion % qt. bouillon or water 

% lb. of butter 1 wineglass red wine 

Preparation: The meat is cut into 1% inch pieces. But- 
ter stewed with onion and the pieces of meat are put in to 
cook 10 minutes. Add the flour and cook another few minutes, 
then add bouillon or water, salt and pepper and cook until 
well done. During the last 15 minutes, pour in the red wine 
and serve with a wreath of boiled rice. (Boil 1 cupfu! of rice 
in salt water until tender but retaining its firmness and add a 
piece of butter). 

No. 22— MUTTON WITH POTATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% lbs. left-over mutton roast Salt, pepper 
1 onion, sliced Left-over gravy 

1 % lbs. sliced raw potatoes 1 small piece of butter 

Preparation: The meat is cut into small thin slices, also 
tihe peeled potatoes. A casserole is buttered and filled with 1 
layer of raw potatoes, 1 layer of meat, salt, pepper and sliced 
onion. Repeat twice, with potatoes for the last layer. Pour the 
gravy over , (if it is too thick, dilute with cream or milk) put 



— 73— 

a few small pieces of butter on top, bake in oven for li/^ hours. 

If you have no left over gravy, make one of 1 tablespoon- 

ful of browned butter, flour, water or bouillon, cream, pepper 

and salt. Pour over the contents of the casserole and bake it. 



No. 23— MUTTON WITH PICKLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% — 2 lbs. of mutton roast or Salt, pepper 

boiled mutton remnants 1 clove, 

Scant % lb. of butter V2 bay-leaf 

2 tbsps. of flour 1 tbsp. of wine vinegar 

% small onion, sliced 3 sweet-sour pickles 

1 pt. thin gravy or bouillon 3 tbsps. of pickled pearl onions 

% tsp. of meat extract 1 tsp. of sugar 

Preparation: The cold, fried or boiled mutton is cut into 
small pieces. The butter and onions are browned, then flour 
stirred in. Add salt, pepper, cloves, bay-leaf, vinegar, sugar 
and bouillon or thin gravy and boil until quite thick. The 
pickles, cut into small cubes, and onions, are now put in, stew- 
ed a little while ; add the pieces of meat, heat, but do not boil, 
then serve. If the gravy is too light, add some meat extract 
or sugar coloring. Fresh boiled, peeled potatoes go well with 
this dish. 

No. 24— MUTTONROAST SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 lb. mutton roast V2 pt. cream 

2 yolks of eggs 4 mustard pickles 
Salt, pepper 1 vinegar pickle 
Some wine vinegar 2 tbsps. of pearl onions 
1 tsp. of mustard 2 tbsps. of oil 

Preparation: Meat, pickles, onions, all this cut into small 
pieces and mixed well witb the other ingredients, then gar- 
nished with hard-boiled eggs. 



No. 25— MUTTON PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 — 4 lbs. of mutton from the 2 % tbsps. of flour 
leg Juice of one lemon 

1 qt. water 1 pinch of white pepper 
1/6 part of a small celery root 3 doz. oysters 

2 small onions Vz pt. can of champignons 
Some salt 2 tbsps. of chopped parsley 

2 tbsps. of butter 



— 74 — 

The Paste. 

% lb. fresh butter % lb. of flour 

Vi lb. lard 2 tbsps. of brandy 

1% glasses water 

Preparation: The meat is cut into pieces the size of cut- 
lets, boiled until tender in 1 qt. of water, celery root, 2 small 
onions, salt. Cook 3 tablespoonfuls of butter and flour and 
add veal bouillon; then add lemon juice, salt and pepper, if 
necessary, boil a few minutes, but do not let the gravy get 
thick. 

The Paste : Butter and lard must be very cold. You may 
omit the lard and use more butter instead if you wish. Both 
are cut into the flour, the very cold water and brandy poured 
in and then stirred to a light paste and rolled out on a well 
floured board. The butter must be visible all through the 
paste. Do not knead much. Roll out, line a baking-dish with 
half of the paste, then put in layers of meat, oysters, then sliced 
champignons, chopped parsley,, the gravy poured over the 
whole and then covered up with the other half of the paste 
in which make a few cuts, finish off the edge and bake in 
medium hot oven 1 to 1% hours. 

Remarks: Leave some of the gravy, mix with oyster 
liquor and the juice of % lemon and serve with the pie. 



No. 26— MUTTON PIE PREPARED SIMPLY. 

The preparation of this pie is just the same as in No. 25, 
but instead of oysters and champignons, take raw, very thinly 
sliced potatoes. 

No. 27— LAMB ROAST. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 

6 lbs. of lamb quarter % pt. sour or sweet cream 

Salt, pepper 2 tbsps. of lemon juice 

% lb. of butter 1 cup of water 

1 tbsp. of flour 

Preparation: The lamb meat must be two days old. It 
is pounded, salted, peppered and put into the oven with the 
cup of water. After 10 minutes the browned butter is poured 
hot over the meat. Baste frequently, gradually adding the 
cream and lemon juice, and roast for 1% to 2 hours. 

For the gravy, stir into the butter some flour and a little 
water and cook (if necessary) a while longer. Serve the gravy 
with the roast after straining. 



— 75 — 

No. 28— BREADED LAMB ROAST. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

4 lbs. of lamb quarter 1 % cups of sour cream 

Salt, pepper 1 tbsp. of flour 

2 eggs 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

Finely sifted roll crumbs 1 cup of water 

% lb., of butter 

Preparation: The meat is pounded, rubbed with salt and 
pepper, then rolled in beaten egg and bread crumbs. Heat the 
butter and fry the meat quickly on top of the stove, then put 
it into the oven, basting it often and adding the cream in 
spoonfuls, also a little water, if the butter should get too 
brown. Cook in slow heat 1% hours until the roast looks 
golden yellow ; then serve. 

For the gravy, stir 1 tablespoonful of flour into the butter, 
add water, cook and strain. You can also add chopped dham- 
pignons. 



No. 29— MUTTON OR LAMB RAGOUT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of mutton or lamb 1 % qts. of water 



% lb. of butter 


3 tbsps. of flour 


Salt 


Juice of % lemon 


6 pepper-corns 


1 wineglass red wine 


2 cloves 


% pt. can champignons 


1 bay-leaf 


5 truffles, chopped and peeled 


% carrot 


% tsp. of sugar 




Vz onion 



Preparation: The mutton or lamb, which should be from 
the breast, is cut into equal sized pieces, stewed a little in 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter, then add 1% qts. of water, carrot, 
onion, salt, pepper, cloves, bay-leaf and cook the meat until 
tender. 

For the gravy, take the rest of the butter, brown it with 
flour, add the strained mutton bouillon, the red wine, lemon 
juice, some of the- champignon juice and boil slowly I/2 hour. 
The gravy should be quite thick. Now put in the meat, cham- 
pignons, truffles and spices and boil 15 minutes longer. Taste 
it for salt and spices. Serve on a hot platter, and garnish the 
rim with crescents of puflF paste and small fried meat dump- 
lings. The dumplings are prepared the same way as the Ox- 
tongue Ragout in No. 35, Qiapter 2. 



— 76 — 

No. 30— LAMB STEW. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 

Head, liver, lungs and heart % lb. ol butter 

Salt 1 egg 

8 whole pepper-corns Roll crumbs 

1 onion 2 tbsps. of flour 

1 bay-leaf Some herb vinegar 

2 cloves 

Preparation: The head is split in two, brain and tongue 
taken out and soaked in water. The tongue is boiled until 
tender in water with salt, pepper, bay-leaf, cloves and onion. 
In the same water, cook the brain and also. the heart, liver, 
lungs and head until tender. 

When the tongue, heart and lungs are well done, cut them 
into cubes. All the meat is put into a pot. Season with salt, 
pepper and a piece of butter, pour in some bouillon and stew. 
Cut the meat off the head, season with salt and pepper, dip in 
egg and roll crumbs and fry in butter to a golden yellow. The 
same is done with the brains. The liver is cut into slices, salt- 
ed, peppered, dipped in fiour and also fried. 

Tihe hash of tongue, lung and heart is placed in the middle 
of a hot platter, the liver slices placed in a wreath around it, 
the meat irom the head, which has been cut into neat pieces, 
and the brains placed on top of the hash. 

The gravy should be prepared before dishing out the 
hash. For the gravy, take one tablespoonful of flour, stir it in 
the butter in which the meat, brains and liver have been fried, 
add some of the bouillon and a little vinegar, lemon juice or 
white wine. Serve the gravy with the meat. 



No. 31— PLAIN RAGOUT OF MUTTON OR LAMB. 

The preparation is the same as in No. 29. Instead of wine, 
take wine vinegar or herb vinegar and leave off the champig- 
nons and truffles. 

No. 32— LAMB CROWN ROAST. 

Contents and preparation are the same as No. 42 of pre- 
vious chapter. Veal Crown Roast. 



— 77 — 

CHAPTER 5. 

PORK. 






--^^^s^^ 


^^ 


S;^ 


^^m 


S^§^^^ 


1. 

2. 
3. 
4. 


Ham. 

Pork Loin. 
Pork Chops. 
Pork Shoulder 


5. 


6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
Belly. 


Head. 
Snout. 
Shanks. 
Feet. 





Boiled, Fried and Salted Pork. 

Also recipes for utilizing left-over pork. 

Good pork from well fed yearlings is tender, light and not 
too fat. The fat or lard must be white, the hide light.. In- 
ferior pork has a yellow hide, smeary lard and very fat, dark 
meat. 

Suckling pig is considered a delicacy in tihe kitchen. It is 
usually 2 or 3 weeks old. 

Best Pieces for Roasts. 

The leg, the pork loin, the slightly smoked rib piece, the 
fillets. 

Small Pieces for Frying. 
The cutlets, the fillets and ham slices. 
Best Pieces for Stew. 
The pork shoulder and fillets. 



— 78 — 

Best Pieces for Boiling. 

The belly, the hip-bone, (head, shoulder and marbled 
pieces. 

Best Pieces for Smoking and Salting. 
The hams, pork loins, smoked tenderloin, (called lachs- 
schinken), the belly for lean bacon, the pork loin as fat bacon, 
tenderloin and shoulder. 

For Gelatines. 
The hide or skin and bones. 



No. 1— PORK ROAST. 

Quantity for 6^^8 Persons. 
4 lbs. rib roast 1 onion 

Salt 1% tbsps. of flour 

6 pepper-corns 1 cup of cream 

2 cloves - 1% cups of water 

1 bay-leaf 

Preparation : The meat is waslhed and pounded, some fat 
trimmed off and salted. The roast is put into the oven with 1 
cup of boiling water, all spices and onion and roasted 1% to 2 
hours, basting it frequently. The roast must be crisp outside. 
When it is done, put it on a platter and prepare the gravy. If 
there is too mudh fat, skim it off, put the flour into it, stew a 
little while, add the cream and some water if necessary, cook, 
strain and serve with the roast. 



No. a— FRESH YOUNG LEG OF PORK FOR ROAST. 

Quantity for 10 — 15 Persons. 
8 — 10 lbs. of leg of pork 1 onion 

Salt . 2 tbsps. of flour 

6 pepper-corns 1 pt. of water 

3 cloves % wineglass red wine or Madeira 

2 bay-leaves 

Preparation: The meat is pounded, skinned, some of the 
fat cut off, rubbed with salt and put in oven with 1 pt. boihng 
water, all spices and onion and roasted 2% to 3 hours, basting 
it frequently. 

For the gravy, skim off the iat, stir in the flour, stew a 
little wlhile, then add some water, the wine. or cream, and cook 
it well, strain and serve with the meat. 



— 79 — 

No. 3— BREADED LEG OF PORK. 

Quantity for 10 — 15 Persons. 
The meat is prepared the same way as described in No. 3, 
but % hours before done, 8 cloves are stuck into it, % tea- 
spoonful of sugar and 1 cup of rye bread crumbs roasted in 
butter are strewn over it. Cover it well with the bread crumbs 
by pressing it down with a knife, baste with drippings and 
roast 1/^ to % hour longer. 

For the gravy, stir in li/^ tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 glass 
red wine, 1^/^ cups of water; cook, strain and serve. 



No. 4r-BRAISED PORK ROAST. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 lbs. of pork 1 small onion 

Salt, pepper 2 tbsps. of flour 

3 cloves 1% pts. of water 

1 bay-leaf 2 tbsps. of white wine 

Preparation : The meat is fried quickly to a light brown in 
1 tablespoonful of lard and onion on the open fire, the Hour is 
stirred in and browned a little. Now the water is poured on, 
salt and spices and wine added apd then roasted in oven 2 to 
21/2 hours, turning and basting frequently. 

For the gravy, skim off the fat, strain it and serve with the 
roast which must be a light hrown. 



No. 5— SOUR PORK ROAST. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 lbs. of pork shoulder 1 handful of salt for pickling 

1 qt. vinegar 1% tbsps. of flour 

2 onions 2 cups of water 
6 pepper-corns Salt 

3 cloves 1 pinch of pepper 

2 bay-leaves 1 wineglass of red wine if you 

wish 

Preparation: The meat is pounded and put into a jar or 
earthen dish witlh 1 qt. of vinegar, sliced onion, salt, cloves, 
peppers and bay-leaves and left in it for 2 days, turning it once 
or twice. When taken out to roast, .put it into the oven with 
1 cup of water, salt and pepper, also i/^ of the onions that are 
in the vinegar, then roast 11/4 hours, basting frequently. 

For the gravy, stir in the flour, stew a few minutes, add 
some water, the wine or % cup of cream, cook, pour oveir the 
roast. When this is done, strain the gravy and serve with 
the roast. 



— 80 — 

No. 6— PORK STEW. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 lbs. of pork 2 cloves 
Salt 1 bay-leaf 

4 pepper-corns 2 % qts. of 'water 

% onion 

Preparation: The meat is washed and put on with 31^ 
qts. of cold water, onion, salt, spices and cooked slowly 3 to 
21/^ hours, covered. Skim tihe bouillon several times. Cut the 
meat in slices and arrange the vegetables around it. TIhe bouil- 
lon may be used for boiling all kinds of vegetables, beans, peas 
and lentils. 

No. 7— SALT PORK OR HIP-BONE FOR STEW. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 lbs. of salt pork or hip-bone 1 bay-leaf 
6 pepper-corns 1 onion 

2 cloves 3 qts. of water 

Preparation: The salt pork or hip-bone is put on with 3 
qts. of cold water, spices and onion, and cooked slowly for 3 
hours. The pot must be well covered and ought to be an 
earthen dish. The broth will be jellied when cold and can be 
utilized for all kinds of headdheese. 



No. 8— SMOKED HAM FOR COOKING. 

Quantity for 15 — 20 Persons. 
10 lbs. of ham 2 bay-leaves 

2 onions 10 pepper-corns 

6 cloves Sufficient water 

Preparation : The ham is soaked in water over night, then 
put it on the fire with cold water enough to cover it, onions 
and spices added. Cook it slowly in a large kettle for about 
4 to 5 hours. Serve it warm with a Madeira gravy, or cold in 
slices. 

No. 9— SMOKED HAM BOILED, BREADED WITH 
RYE BREAD CRUMBS. 

Quantity for 15 — 20 Persons. 
10 lbs. of ham Rye bread crumbs 

Sufficient water 1 tsp. of brown sugar 

Cloves for larding 

Preparation : The ham is soaked in water over night, tlhen 
put on the fire with sufficient cold water to cover it, boil slow- 
ly for 4 hours. It will be quite done by this time. Put it on 



— 81 — 

a platter, skin \t and lard it 'where the skin has been removed 
with 30 to 40 cloves, sprinkle side with the sugar and thickly 
with the rye bread crumbs, then lay the ham into a pan and 
bake it in the oven for 1 hour. Serve with a Madeira gravy. 
This is a fine dish. 

No. 10— HAM IN BURGUNDY WINE. 

Quantity for 15 — 20 Persons. 
10 lbs. of ham 1 very large pig's bladder 

2 bottles of Burgundy wine 2 tbsps. of butter 

2 small sliced onions 2^ tbsps. of flour 

A leek % pt. of Madeira 

1 piece of thyme % cup of bouillon 

1 piece of marjoram A cloth to tie up the ham 

Vi lb. of truffles Water to boil in 

% lb. of champignons 

Preparation: The skin is cut oif and the bones are taken 
out as well as possible. To the wine add the onion, the chopped 
leek, thyme and marjoram, then leave the ham. in it for 24 
hours, turning it over often. After that take it out, make a 
stuffing of truffles, champignons, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 
salt, pepper and % cup of bouillon mixed well and stufif the 
cavity left after removing the bone with it and sew it up. Clean 
the bladder well ipside and outside, make a cut into it and put 
the stuffed ham inside, then pour in the wine with all its con- 
tents in which the ham has been lying for 24 hours, sew it up 
carefully. Then tie the whole into a white cloth and put it 
on the fire in cold water to boil for 4 to 5 hours slowly. After 
this, take the cloth off, open the suture, pour the fluid into a 
pot and put the ham into a pan. 

Brown the butter and flour, add some of the ham fluid 
and Madeira, cook it well and add perhaps % teaspoonful of 
sugar, (better taste tihe gravy first). Fill some of this gravy 
over the ham and put it into the oven, roast for 1/4 hour, then 
serve it with the gravy. Ham prepared in this way is very 
fine. If wine cannot be had, use Ginger Ale. 



No. 11— FRIED HAM WITH EGGS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. raw ham sliced very thin 12 eggs 

1% Pts. milk 1 pinch of salt and white pepper 

Vs lb. butter 

Preparation: The ham is put in milk for 6 hours, then 
dry off tIhe ham slices and fry them quickly in butter, put them 
on a platter and pour the butter over. In the meantime the 



— 82 — 

eggs have been fried in butter with salt and pepper and now 
they are carefully placed on the ham. 

Remarks: You need not put the ham into the milk and 
instead of ham you may take breakfast bacon. (Bacon and 
Eggs). 

No. 12— BOILED HAM WITH NOODLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. of boiled ham 1 pinch of pepper 

Noodles made from 2 eggs 2 — 3 eggs 

1 pt. milk Some butter 

Salt 

Preparation: The ham is chopped fine. The noodles are 
cooked in salt water for ten minutes, then poured into a colan- 
der. Butter a casserole and put in a layer of noodles, then a 
layer of ham and repeat 3 or 3 times until all is in. The top 
layer must be noodles. The milk is well mixed with 3 or 3 
eggs and very little salt and pepper and poured over the whole 
mass, a few pieces of butter on top and baked in oven slowly 
for 1 hour. 

No. 13— BOILED HAM WITH MACARONI. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. of boiled ham Juice of 1 lemon 

% lb. of macaroni 2 tbsps. of Parmesan cheese or 

1 pt. of milk Swiss cheese 

Very little salt and pepper 2 — 3 eggs 

Preparation: The ham is chopped fine and the macaroni 
broken in 3-inch pieces, boiled in salt water for % hour, then 
drain. Butter a casserole, put in a layer of macaroni and one 
of ham, repeat 3 or 3 times, with macaroni for the last layer. 
The milk is stirred well with eggs, salt, pepper, lemon juice 
and grated cheese and poured over the mass, tlien baked in the 
oven for one hour, after putting a few small pieces of butter 
on top. Serve in the casserole in which it was baked. 



No. 14— BREADED HAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. raw ham 2 cups of roll crumbs 

% lb. of butter or lard, good 1 pinch of salt 

measure 1 % pts. of milk 

3 whites of eggs 

Preparation: The ham is cut into l^ inch thick slices and 
put into milk for 5 hours, then taken out, dried, salted, dipped 
into white of egg and then into roll crumbs mixed with tihe 



— 83— 

flour. Then it is fried in hot butter on both sides. These ham 
slices are nice to serve with vegetables. 



No. 15— ROASTED PORK-FILLET. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 — 2 % lbs. of pork-fillet 1 tbsp. of flour 

% lb. bacon for larding % cup of sweet or sour cream 

Salt, pepper 1 cup of water , 

2 tbsps. of butter or drippings 

Preparation: The pork-fillets are pounded, the skin and 
most of the fat removed, then larded with bacon, salted and 
peppered. Put the fat wihich you cut off into a flat baking 
tin with some butter; into this heated lard and butter, put 
your fillets, baste often and let it roast in the oven 45 min- 
utes to 1 ihour. This depends on the size of the meat. 15 
minutes before done, pour off some of the lard, stir in the flour 
to brown, then the water and gradually the cream, basting 
frequently. Strain the gravy and serve with the fillet. 



No. 16— STUFFED PORK-FILLET CALLED 
MOCK-DUCK. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 large fillets of 2 % lbs. or % lb. bacon for larding 

4 small ones Salt, pepper 

For Stuffing. 

% lb. chopped pork - Salt 

% lb. chopped veal 1 pinch of pepper 

2 eggs ■ 2 tbsps. of butter for frying 

% tbsp. of butter Vz tbsp. of flour 

% tbsp. of lemon juice % cup of sweet or sour cream 

1 tbsp. of capers 1 cup of water 

Preparation: The skin and fat are removed from the fillets 
and these pounded flat. Chopped pork and veal, eggs, i/^ 
tablespoonful of butter, lemon juice, capers, salt and pepper 
are mixed well. This stuffing is placed between two fillets 
and tlhese are then tied together with string or fastened to- 
gether with toothpicks. If there are four fillets, put % of the 
stuffing on two and place the other two on top, then put bacon 
strips on top and fry them like No. 15, 1 to 1% hours. Strain 
the gravy and serve with the fillets. This makes a very fine 
dish. 



—84— 

No. 17— ROASTED PORK CUTLETS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 lbs. of pork cutlets 1 clove 

Salt, pepper % bay-leaf 

1 egg Vtt small onion 

1 % cups grated rolls % lb. of butter or lard 

1 tbsp. of flour 1 cup of water 

Preparation: The pork cutlets are pounded, salted and 
peppered. The egg is beaten with a tablespoonful of milk 
and the cutlets dipped into this and then into the bread 
crumbs, then fried until light brown in hot butter or lard. This 
will require 15 minutes if they are 14 i"ch thick; if they are 
thicker, fry them for 20 minutes and place them on a hot 
platter. 

If there is much fat in the pan, take some of it out and 
brown onion slices and flour in the remaining fat ; add water, 
clove and bay-leaf, also salt and pepper, if necessary, and cook 
for 5 minutes. Strain the gravy and pour over cutlets or serve 
it separately. 

No. 18— CHOPPED PORK CUTLETS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

Preparation and ingredients are the same as in No. 17. 
The cutlets are chopped, carefully breaded and fried in butter 
about 8 to 10 minutes if the cutlets are i/^ to % inch thick. 



No. 19— STEWED PORK CUTLETS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 lbs. pork cutlets 1 bay-leaf 

Salt, pepper 4 pepper-corns 

% cup of flour for dipping % sliced onion 

1% pts. of bouillon or water 1% — 2 tbsps. of flour 

mixed with % tsp. of meat 1 wineglass Madeira or red wine 

extract Juice of % lemon 

2 cloves Butter 

Preparation: The fat is cut off and the cutlets salted and 
peppered and dipped in flour, then fried quickly in hot butter 
on both sides. They are tlhen taken out and put on a hot plat- 
ter. The sliced onion and flour are browned in the drippings, 
bouillon, wine, spices, lemon juice, salt, 4 pepper-corns added, 
and cooked a while. The cutlets are then put into this gravy, 
covered and placed into the oven to stew one hour. When 
done, strain the gravy and serve with cutlets on the same 
platter. 



— 85 — 

No. 20— PORK KIDNEYS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 % lbs. pork kidneys % lb. of butter 

Salt, pepper 1 pt. of bouillon 

1 % tbsps. of flour 1 % tbeps. of vinegar 

Preparation: The kidneys are cut crosswise into 1/4 inch 
slices and fried in the hot butter 1 minute. Salt and pepper, 
stir in the flour, cook another minute and pour in bouillon and 
vinegar and cook 1 to 2 minutes more, stirring constantly. Have 
a good hot fire. The kidneys are tender when they do not look 
red any longer. If they cook too long, they get hard. Serve 
at once. 

No. 21— PORK RAGOUT OR PORK PEPPER. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of lean pork 1 % tbsps. of vinegar or 

1 % tbsps. of butter or lard 1 wineglassf ul of red wine 
Salt, pepper 3 tbsps. of flour 

% onion Some water or bouillon 

2 cloves % cup of pig's blood if you can 
1 bay-leal get it 

Preparation: The meat is cut into 31^ inch squares. The 
butter and flour is browned, then bouillon or water, onion 
slices, spices and salt added and cooked a few minutes. Put in 
the meat and cook slowly ^2 hour. Add the vinegar or. red 
wine and continue to cook slowly until done, which will re- 
quire 1/^ to 1 hour. Put the ragout in a warm dish and stir 
the blood into the gravy, strain and pour over the meat. 

Remarks: You may omit the blood. 



No. 22— MOCK-RABBIT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. chopped pork 1 tbsp. of capers 

1 lb. chopped veal Salt 

1 lb. chopped beef 1 pinch of pepper 

2 tbsps. of butter Va lb. of butter or lard for frying 

3 eggs % tbsp. of flour 
2 soaked rolls 1 cup of water 
Juice of % lemon 1 cup of roll crumbs 

Preparation : All t)he meat must be chopped very fine and 
mixed well with the roll from which the water has been well 
drained, eggs, 2 talblespoonfuls of butter, lemon juice, capers, 
salt, pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of grated onion. It is shaped 
into an oblong loaf and strewn with roll crumbs. The butter 
or lard is heated, the loaf of meat put in and baked in the oyen 
one hour, basting frequently. Take out the mock-rabbit care- 



—86-- 

fully and put it on a platter. For the gravy, brown Yz table- 
spoonful of flour in the drippings, add the water, boil, and 
when done, strain and serve with the mock-rabbit; You may 
also add % cup'of cream and some lemon juice. tothe gravy. 
Remarks: You may also put 2 to 3 peeled, hard boiled 
eggs into the loaf of meat, whole, before baking it. It is fine 
for slicing cold. ' "' ' ' 

No. 23— STUFFED HOG'S HEAD. 

Quantity for 10 Persons. 
1 hog's head with ears 2 small onions 

Salt % of a celery root 

6 whole peppers % pt. of wine vinegar 

7 qts. of water for cooking 4 cloves 

1 carrot 2 bay-leaves 

The Stuffing. 
1 lb. chopped lean pork 3 eggs 

1 lb. chopped lean veal Juice of % lemon 

Salt, pepper ' 1 tsp. of grated onion 

% lb. butter 1 pinch of nutmeg. 

2 soaked rolls 

Extra. 

1 lb. boiled beef tongue Vs lb. truffles, cut in small pieces 

% lb. of boiled veal Vz lb. bacon 

% lb. cooked pork 1 white cloth to tie up 

Preparation: The Ihead is cleaned well and split open 
lengthwise without cutting the skin. The bones are all taken 
out and the inside of the head is salted and peppered. The 
bones are split and put over the fire with the 7 qts. of. water, 
the carrot, onion, celery, vinegar, cloves, and bay-leaf. 

For tihe stuffing, mix well the chopped veal, salt, pepper, 
soaked rolls, i/4 I'b. of butter, 3 eggs, g'rated onion, lemon 
juice, nutmeg and put the stuffing info the head, 1 inch thick, 
then make a layer of boiled tongue (^ inch slices), pork and 
veal. Then a thin layer of truffles. Repeat., this, putting in 
stuffing, sliced meat and truffles alternately until both sides of 
the head are filled, sew it up, lay a piece of pork skin before 
tlhe throat opening and sew it on. Tie up the whole head in 
the white cloth or sew it into the cloth and cook it 4 hours in 
the same water in which you have boiled the bones. After it 
is done, leave it in the bouillon and cool it ofif ; when it is near- 
ly cold, place it on a board and weiglht it down. When it_ is 
cold, cut off the cloth and pick out all threads. Cut off a slice 
from the head so you can see the stuffing. Garnish by pinning 
a lemon slice into each eye with a toothpick, into the mouth 
place a bunch of parsley and around tlie head, gfeen lettuce. 



—87— 

This will make a fine cold supper or lunch. Serve a cold mus- 
tard gravy with it. 

Remarks: The bouillon, after being boiled down consid- 
erably, may be used for aspic or head cheese. 

No. 24^PORK RIBS AND SAUERKRAUT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. salted pork ribs 1 pinch of sugar 

1 lb. sauerkraut 6 large, peeled and sliced apples 

hi lb. butter % bottle of white wine 

For Meat Dumplings. 
% lb. chopped pork Salt, pepper 

% lb. chopped veal 1 tbsp. of butter 

1 egg % tbsp. of grated onion 

Preparation: The pork ribs which have been salted for 
several days are cut into pieces, washed, dried and fried on 
both sides in hot butter, then put into a pot, the sauerkraut 
on top. (If the sauerkraut is too sour, soak it in water and 
drain). Add Y^ lb. of butter, apples, white wine and sugar, 
cover and cook slowly for 2 hours. When it gets too dry, 
pour in some water. 

The Meat Dumplings : The chopped pork and veal, soaked 
roll, egg, 1 tablespoonful of butter and onion are mixed well. 
Shape into dumplings and fry well done in the butter in which 
you fried the ribs. 

Arrange the sauerkraut in the middle of the platter, the 
ribs around it and the dumplings piled on top in a heap. Then 
serve. If you cannot get wine, omit it. 

No. 25— SAUSAGE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 % lbs. marbled pork Vz tsp. of cloves 
Salt % tsp. of thyme 

% tsp. of white pepper 
Preparation : The meat is ground three times or chopped 
very fine, then mixed well with tihe spices, filled into casings 
made from hog intestines and fried while fresh. 

No. 26— FRIED SAUSAGE. 

2% lbs. of sausage Salt, pepper 

2 tbsps. of lard 1 cup of bouillon or water 

1 small onion % tsp. of meat extract 

1 tbsp. of flour 

Preparation: The sausage is fried slowly in the hot lard 
until brown, then take it out and put the sliced onion into the 



— 88— 



same lard, add the flour, brown it, add water or bouillon, meat 
extract, if you have it, salt and pepper and cook. Pour this 
strained gravy over the sausage and serve- 



No. 27— SAUSAGES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. lean pork 1 pinch of white pepper 

% lb. fat pork from the loin 2 casings of sheep intestines 

Salt 

Preparation: Meat and fat are chopped fine or ground 3 
times, salted and peppered, filled into the casings and formed 
into lengths of sausages. You can improve the sausage by 
adding chopped truffles. 

No. 28— FRIED SAUSAGES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 lb. of sausages 1 cup of grated rolls 

2 whites of eggs Salt, drippings or butter 

% cup of flour 

Preparation: The sausages are salted, dipped into white 
of egg, flour and bread crumibs and fried in hot drippings or 
butter to a nice brown color. They are nice with vegetables. 

Remarks: You can prepare them like No. 26 and omit 
tihe bread crumibs. 

No. 29— WHITE CABBAGE PIE WITH PORK. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
1 head of white cabbage Salt 

% lb. chopped pork 1 pinch of peppe 

% lb. chopped beef 2 tbsps. of butter or drippings 

2 eggs 

Preparation : Remove the outer leaves and the core of the 
cabbage and boil until tender in salt water. Mix well the 
chopped pork and beef, butter, eggs, salt and pepper. Butter 
a pudding-mold, drain the salt water from the cabbage and put 
in layers of cabbage and meat; repeat 3 times until all is in, 
the cabbage being on top, then close the mold, put it in a 
steamer over a kettle of boiling water and boil for 2 hours. 
Dump on a dish or platter after draining off the brotlh. 

For the Gravy : Stir 5 rolled crackers with 1 tablespoon- 
ful of butter, salt, pepper, add the broth and boil. If it gets 
too thick, add some bouillon or water; stir in 2 yolks of eggs 
and serve with the pie. 

Remarks : For the filling you may take pork only and for 
gravy thickening use flour instead of crackers. 



— 89 — 

No. 30— CABBAGE SAUSAGES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 head of white cabbage 1 onion 

% lb. chopped pork Left-over gravy or 

Salt, pepper 1 pt. of false gravy 

Vs lb. of bacon 

Preparation: The whole head of cabbagfe is boiled until 
half done in salt water. The outer leaves are then carefully 
taken off and some of the mixture of chopped pork, salt and 
pepper put on each leaf and the leaf is rolled or wrapped 
around it and tied with string. The bacon and onions are cut 
into small pieces and fried, then these little cabbage sausages 
are fried in it to a nice brown color. The gravy is poured 
over them, the pan is covered and the sausages stewed for 1^^ 
to 2 hours, the string removed and served. 

Remarks: If you have no gravy, make one by browning 
1 tablespoonful of butter and 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and add- 
ing water or bouillon. Put in 3 tablespoonfuls of cream if you 
have it; salt, pepper and boil. If you have no bouillon, stir 
V^ teaspoonful of meat extract with water. 

No. 31— SPANFERKEL OR ROAST LITTLE PIG. 

Quantity for 8 — 10 Persons. 
1 suckling pig • % lb. of butter 

Salt % pt. of water 

1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: The well washed and dressed pig is soaked 
in water for a few hours. The eyes are taken out and it is 
salted inside and outside. TIhe fore and hind legs are bent un- 
der the pig and in this way it is placed into a pan with a tray 
on which it rests. Pour in some water and let it roast for 10 
minutes. The butter is melted and the pig is brushed with it 
every 5 to 10 minutes. Gradually add water and cook it 1^^ 
hours. Prick the skin several times so it will not blister; the 
butter will make the pig crisp. The drippings will be served 
as gravy or you can also serve a truffle, caper or tomato gravy 
with it. 

No. 32— STUFFED SPANFERKEL OR ROAST 
LITTLE PIG. 

Quantity for 8 — 10 Persons. 

1 suckling pig 1 tbsp. of sugar 

2 lbs. of sweet-sour apples Salt 

1 cup of dried currants % lb. of butter 

H cup seedless raisins 

Preparation: The dressed and well washed pig is rubbed 



— 90 — 



down with salt. The apples are peeled, cored and quartered, 
then mixed well with dried currants, raisins and sugar and 
stuffed into the pig which is then sewed up. Now bake just 
the same as No. 31. 

Remarks : Sauerkraut and fried potatoes are good with it. 



No. 33— SPANFERKEL A LA FRENCH STYLE. 

Quantity for 8 — 10 Persons. 
1 suckling pig Salt, pepper 

Liver, lungs and heart 2 tbsps. of butter 

% lb. finely chopped pork 1 egg 

Preparation: The pig is washed well, dressed and rubbed 
with salt inside and outside. Liver, lungs and heart are 
chopped very fine and mixed well with butter, egg, salt, pep- 
per and a few drops of lemon juice, then stuffed into the pig 
and this sewed up. The pig is brushed with fine salad oil and 
roasted slowly for 1% to 3 'hours. Water is added from time 
to time, garnish with lemon slices and serve with the gravy. 



No 34:— MEAT SALTING AND PICKLING. 

60 lbs. of meat 2 tbsps. of ground white pepper 

2 lbs. of salt 

The Brine. 

4%, lbs. of salt Scant % lb. sugar 

Va lb. of saltpetre 9 qts. of water 

Preparation: Rub the meat with the 3 lbs. of salt until it 
all disappears and rub the joints and cuts with pepper. Then 
pack it into a barrel, the big pieces at the bottom, tihe small 
ones to fill in the cavities. After 2 days, make the brine by 
heating it, but not boiling, pour it on the meat and leave it on 
for 20 to 30 days according to the size of the pieces. 



No. 35— PICKLED HAM. 

1 raw ham, 10 to 12 lbs. 2 tbsps. of sugar 

2 % lbs. of salt 1/20 lb. of saltpetre 

Preparation: Salt is heated in a pan and mixed well with 
saltpetre, then the ham is rubbed with it for 45 minutes. After 
this, put the ham into a barrel, well weighted. Pour the salt 
water, wlhich it produces, over it often and turn the ham over 
several times. It may remain in the brine 5 to 6 weeks. 



— 01 — . 

CHAPTER 6. 

POULTRY AND GAME BIRDS. 



POULTRY. 

Cooked and Roasted Poultry. 

Complete directions for utilizing Poultry Remnants. 

THE CHICKEN. 

The young chicken has a slender body and a delicate 
color. All young poultry has long legs, soft skin, feathers 
with oily quill that can be pulled out easily, small red comb, 
long claws and an elastic breast bone. 

Old hens have a small, pale comb. If you wish to keep 
poultry, hang it up for a few days with the plumage, then 
pick it and dress it, stuff it with white paper, hang it up or 
wrap it in a clean cloth and put it on ice. 

Poultry must not be cooked directly after slaughtering, 
because it will not get tender. According to the season it 
will keep 1 — 3 days. 

A young chicken is roasted or fried. It is best when 8 to 
16 weeks old. Old hens are good for cooking. 

No. 1— ROAST SPRING CHICKEN. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 — 3 young spring chickens 1 tbsp. of flour 

Salt % cup of sweet cream 

% lb. of butter % pt. of water 

3 thin slices of bacon 

Preparation: The chicken is dressed, washed and dried 
well inside and outside and rubbed with salt. 

Heart and liver may be put back into the chicken, giz- 
zard and neck into the pan. The bacon slices are tied over 
the breast of the chicken, the pieces of butter put on top and 
then placed in the oven to roast one hour, basting it often un- 
til it is a golden yellow or light brown. Add water from time 
to time so that the butter will not get too brown. During the 
last 15 minutes put the cream, the flour and if necessary, water 
into the butter and let it simmer 15 minutes longer. Strain 
the gravy and serve with the chicken. 

Remarks: You may leave oflf the bacon, but must baste 
the chicken every 5 minutes, because the breast gets dry very 
quickly. 



—92— 

No. 2— STUFFED ROAST CHICKENS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 young chickens Salt 

2 slices of bacon to tie across % tbsp. of flour 

the breast % cup of cream 

% lb. butter for frying % pt. of water 

The Stuffing. 
The heart, liver and gizzard 1 tsp. of finely chopped parsley 

1 roll Salt 

1 tbsp. of butter 1 pinch of pepper 

2 eggs 1 pinch of nutmeg 

% tbsp. of lemon juice 

Preparation: The chickens are dressed, washed, dried and 
salted inside and outside. The stuffing made of finely chopped 
heart, liver, gizzard, from which the tough membrane has been 
removed, soaked roll, salt, pepper, parsley, nutmeg, butter, 
eggs and lemon juice, well mixed, is put into the chickens, the 
slices of bacon tied across the breast, the chickens sewed up 
and roasted exactly like No. 1. 

Remarks: The stuffing may be made richer with ^ cup 
of chopped champignons and 3 truffles chopped fine. 



No. 3— ANOTHER FORM OF STUFFED CHICKEN. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 young chickens Vz cup of sweet cream 

Vi lb. of butter % pt. of water 

2 slices of bacon 1 tbsp. of flour 

Salt 

The Stuffing. 
2 tbsps. of butter 1 pinch of pepper 

1 tbsp. of finely sliced onion 1 pinch of nutmeg 

Heart, liver, gizzard chopped fine 1 tsp. of finely chopped parsley 

2 eggs 1 roll soaked and the water 
Salt pressed out 

Preparation: The chickens are prepared as described in 
No. 1 and 3. 

The stuffing is made by heating the butter and stewing 
the onion slices to a light yellow in it, then add the chopped 
heart, liver and gizzard and stew 5 minutes. Add the roll and 
all the other ingredients, stew another few minutes, stir in the 
eggs, stuff the chickens, sew them up, tie bacon across the 
breast and fry the same as in No. 1. 



—93— 

No. 4— STEWED CHICKEN WITH CHAMPIGNONS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 young chickens 1 pinch of pepper 

% lb. of butter 1 % wineglassf ul of red wine 

2 tbsps. of flour % pt. small champignons or 

Bouillon or water 30 fresh, cleaned champignons 

Salt Juice of 1 lemon 

- _ Preparation: The chickens are dressed and washed and 
fried in % lb. of butter in the oven for 15 minutes, basting 
them several times. After this time, stir into tlhe butter the 2 
tablespoonfuls of flour, add bouillon or water, salt, pepper, 
wine and champignons, cover the pot or pan, stew the chickens 
for 1 hour. Lastly put in the lemon juice and serve the 
chickens and gravy on one platter. 



No. 5— OLD OR YOUNG CHICKEN WITH RICE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 old chicken or 2 young ones % cup of rice 

3 qts. of water Water and chicken bouillon 

Salt % tbsp. of fresh butter 

2 slices of onion 

For the Gravy. 

1 tbsp. of butter % wineglassful of white wine 

2 tbsps. of flour 2 yolks of eggs 

Chicken bouillon 

Preparation : The chickens are dressed, wasihed and boiled 
until tender in 3 qts. of water, the salt and onion slices. Boil 
a young chicken 45 minutes, old chicken 2 — 3 hours, accord- 
ing to its age. In the meantime, cook the rice in a double- 
boiler with a few cups of bouillon and a little salt. When the 
rice is done, stir in a piece of fresh butter. Do not cook it 
too mushy. 

The Gravy: Stir 1 tablespoonful of butter and 3 of flour, 
add some of the chicken-^broth, cook a few minutes till it 
thickens, add the white wine and stir in the 2 yolks of eggs. 

The chickens are carved in nice pieces and placed in a 
heap in the middle of the platter, the rice around it and tlhe 
gravy poured over the meat ; or leave the chicken whole, place 
the rice around and serve the gravy separately. 

Remarks : The gravy may be prepared without wine. 



No. 6— CHICKEN PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 young chickens or Salt 

1 old one 1 tbsp. of butter 

3 qts. of water 1 % tbsps. of flour 

The Paste. 

% lb. of butter and lard, more % lb. of flour, good measure 
butter than lard or butter 1% tumblerfuls of water 
only 

Preparation: The chickens are dressed, washed and put 
to boil in the water and salt. Young chicken will be tender in 
45 minutes, old chicken in 2 to 3 hours. 

The Paste: Butter and lard must be very cold. Cut it 
into the flour and add the very cold water, mix lig^htly and roll 
one-half of it out in 1/4 inch thick layer. The paste must be 
dry; the butter must be visible after rolling^. Put this layer 
into a baking-dish, cut up the chickens, put the pieces into the 
dish, pour in the bouillon so that meat and broth are even. 
Roll the other half of the paste, make a few cuts into it and 
cover the pie, trimming off the edge neatly. Bake in tihe oven 
1 hour to a golden yellow color. Leave only enough broth for 
the gravy. Stir into the broth 1 tablespoonful of butter, II4 
of flour, cook, strain and serve with the pie. 

Cabbage salad and fresh boiled potatoes go nicely with it. 



No. 7— PUFF-PASTE PATTIES, FILLED WITH 
CHICKEN RAGOUT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 small young chicken Salt 

1 Vz qts. of water 

For the Gravy. 

2 tbsps. of butter % cup sweet cream 
2 tbsps. of flour Juice of % lemon 
Chicken broth Salt 

% wineglassful of white wine 1 pinch of white pepper 
% pt. can champignons 

The Paste. 
% lb. very cold fresh butter 1 tbsp. of strong brandy 

% lb. flour % of an egg 

Vi pt. very cold water 
Preparation: The chicken is prepared well and cooked 
until tender in li/^ qts. of salt water, then cut up into very 
small pieces. 



—95— 

The Gravy: Melt the butter, stir in the flour, fill up with 
chickenbroth, add cream' and wine, cook till it thickens, put 
in the chopped champignons and the meat, season with salt 
and pepper, fill hot into the ready baked patties. Then bake 
in moderately hot oven for about 10 minutes and serve im- 
mediately. 

Bake the patties according to No. 39, Chapter 3, Veal 
Sweetbread Patties. 

No. 8— CHICKEN RAGOUT IN SHELLS OR OTHER 
SMALL MOLDS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% lbs. of cooked chicken % wineglassful of white wine 

2 tbsps. of butter Juice of % lemon 

2 tbsps. of flour Salt 

Some bouillon 1 pinch of pepper 

Vz cup. of sweet cream 

Preparation: The chicken meat is cut up into small 
pieces. Butter is melted and flour stirred in, broth, cream and 
white wine added, seasoned with salt, pepper and lemon juice, 
cooked and filled into the shells or other small molds. Sprinkle 
with bread crumbs, place pieces of butter on top and bake in 
oven to a nice brown color. 

Rem^arks: This ragout may be improved with i,^ pt. of 
finely chopped champignons and 4 truffles also chopped fine. 
This chicken ragout in shells makes an excellent side-dish. 



No. 9— CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

The preparation and ingredients are the same as in No. 
31, Veal Croquettes, or No. 30, Veal Sweetbread Croquettes. 
See Chapter 3. 

No. lO-FINE CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 
Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
2 young chickens Salt 

% lb. of butter 

For the Gravy : 
2% — 3 tbsps. of flour % cup champignon juice 

% pt. sweet or sour cream 1 wineglassful of Madeira or 

Bouillon or water white wine 

% pt. champignons Salt 

6 sliced truffles 1 pinch of white pepper 

Some lemon juice 

Preparation: The chickens are dressed and washed, fried 
light brown in 1/4 lb. of butter, and, when well done, carved. 



—96— 

For the gravy, stir into the drippings the flour, water or 
bouillon, cream, wine, champignons, juice and cook well. The 
gravy ought to be quite thick and light yellow, strain and sea- 
son it with lemon juice, salt, if necessary, some pepper, and put 
in the whole champignons and the sliced truffles. 

The chicken should be so carved that the meat will not 
fall from> the bones and should be kept very hot. Put the meat 
on a platter and pour the gravy over it. Garnish the rim with 
puff-paste scallops and small meat dumplings. 

The dumplings are made by chopping the chicken liver, 
heart and gizzard, mixing il^well with ^ soaked roll, salt, 
pepper, 1 egg, y^ teaspoonful of lemon juice. Fry tihe mixture 
in 1 tablespoonful of butter ; when cool, form small dumplings 
and fry them a light brown in very little butter. This is a 
very fine dish. 

No. 11— VIENNA BAKED CHICKEN. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 young, fresh chickens 2 '^k cups of bread crumbs 

Salt 3 lbs. of lard for frying 

% lb. of flour 1 lemon for garnishing 

1 — 2 eggs 

Preparation: The chickens are killed, dressed, washed, 
dried and prepared at once. Cut the chickens in half, salt 
them, dip them first into flour, tlhen in beaten egg and then in 
bread crumbs. The lard is heatec^ in an iron pot or kettle and 
the pieces of chicken placed into it carefully, one at a time, so 
as not to cool the fat too much and that the crumbs may not 
fall off. Bake them to a nice brown color. After the crust is 
hard, let them cook more slowly until well done. Then put on 
paper to drain, strew fine salt over the pieces and put on a 
platter after which they may be garnished with lemon slices. 



No. 12— CHICKEN OR PIGEON CUTLET. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 young chickens or . 2 eggs 

6 young pigeons Some flour 

Salt 1% cups of roll crumbs 

1 pinch of pepper Lemon 

% lb. of butter 

Preparation : The birds are dressed, washed and skinned. 
Each breast is quartered and pounded a little, on each piece 
fasten a scraped wingbone and season with salt and pepper. 



—97— 

Beat the tgg well with 1^^ tablespoonfuls of drawn but- 
ter, dip in the cutlets and then into roll crunubs, mixed with 
3 tablespoonfuls of flour, then fry in butter 8 to 10 minutes, 
turning them often. With asparagus these poultry cutlets are 
very fine. 

Remarks : The scraps of poultry may be utilized for soup, 
croquettes or fricassee 



No. 13— CHICKEN PIE, ENGLISH STYLE. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 

2 young chickens 2 tbsps. of flour 

% lb. of veal steak 1 pt. of water or bouillon 

^ lb. of boiled ham Salt 

2 tbsps. of chopped parsley 1 pinch of pepper 

3 hard boiled eggs 1 tbsp. of butter 

Preparation: The paste is made the same as the chicken 
pie in No. 6. 

The chickens are prepared as in No. 6, the meat removed 
from the bones and cut into 1/4 inch slices, the ham and veal 
too. The baking-dish is lined with the paste and filled with 
alternate layers of meat, salted and peppered, chopped parsley 
and champignons and the yolks of eggs put in whole. 

The tablespoonful of butter and 2 of flour are browned 
a little, broth or water added, stewed, and this poured over the 
meat. Cover with the paste as described in No. 6, then bake 
in the the oven slowly for 1% hours. The pie may be eaten 
cold. Use no flour for the gravy, but clear broth. 



No. 14^PIGBON PIE, ENGLISH STYLE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 pigeons % lb. of butter 

% lb. of beefsteak 1 % tbsps. of flour 

6 hard boiled eggs, the yolks % pt. of bouillon 

only Salt 

% pt. finely chopped cham- 1 pinch of pepper 

pignons 2 tbsps. of finely chopped parsley 

Vi onion 

Prepare the pie-crust as described in No. 6. See Chicken 
Pie. 

Preparation: The pigeons are dressed, washed and fried 
in the butter for % hour, then cut in halves. Fry the steak, 
whidh has been cut into small pieces and the fat taken ofif, in 
the same butter for 10 minutes. Prepare a baking-dish with 
the crust as described in No. 6, put in the meat, salted and 



— 98 — 

peppered, parsley and champignons and place the yolks of 
eggs here and there between the meat. Slice the 14 onion 
and brown together witlh the flour in the drippings, add the 
bouillon, stew, strain and pour over the meat, then cover with 
crust according to No. 6 and bake in the oven 1^/4 hours. 
Remarks : For the crust, use butter only. 

No. 15— FRIED PIGEON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 young pigeons 1 cup of cream 

\i lb. of butter % cup of water 

1 tbsp. of flour 

Preparation: The pigeons are dressed, washed, salted in- 
side and outside. Heat the butter and fry the pigeons light 
brown on every side, basting with spoonfuls of water and 
cream. During the last ten minutes stir in the flour and add 
some more water if necessary, strain the gravy. On the stove 
it requires IV^ hours to fry the pigeons, to roast in the oven 

only one hour. 

No. 16— STUFFED FRIED PIGEONS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 young pigeons % cup of cream 

% lb. of butter 1 cup of water 

1 tbsp. of flour. 

For the Stuffing. 
2 soaked rolls % pt. finely chopped champignons 

Chopped heart, liver, gizzard 4 truffles, chopped 

1 tbsp. of butter Salt, pepper 

2 eggs 1 tsp. of chopped parsley. 

Preparation: The pigeons are dressed, waslhed and salted 
inside and outside. 

The stuffing is made by mixing well the chopped liver, 
heart and gizzard from which the inner membrane has been 
removed with all the other ingredients. Stuff the pigeons 
with it, sew them up and fry them as stated in No. 15 ; pre- 
pare the gravy likewise. 

Remarks: You may make the stuffing more simply by 
omitting the champignons and truffles. 



No. 17— FRIED PIGEONS WITH SWEET STUFFING. 
4 pigeons 2 eggs 

3 soaked rolls 3 tbsps. of sugar 

% cup of ground almonds 1 pinch of salt 

% cup of dried currants Vs lb. of butter 

Preparation: The butter is melted, and the soaked rolls 



—99- 



stirred in and sauteed or dry fried. The almonds are scalded, 
skinned and ground and added with the rest of the ingredients. 
The pigeons are stuffed and prepared same as in No. 15. 



No. 18— ROAST TURKEY. 

Quantity for 10 — 15 Persons. 
1 turkey ■weighing 8 to 10 pounds 1 cup of cream 
% lb. of butter 2 cups of water 

Salt 2 tbsps. of flour 

1 pinch of white pepper 

Preparation: The turkey is dressed and soaked in cold 
water 30 minutes, then dried and seasoned witih pepper and 
salt inside and outside. The butter is placed in bits on the 
turkey and if it is a young turkey, roast it in the oven 2 hours, 
basting frequently with cream and water. 

For the gravy, brown the flour in the drippings, add 
water, cook, strain and serve with the turkey. 

If the turkey is older it will require 3 hours to cook it well, 
and it is best to cover it so it will not get too brown. To pre- 
vent the butter from getting too dark, add water from time 
to time. 

Remarks : The leavings may be utilized in many ways. 
Turkey ragout in shells, see No. 8 for Chicken ragout in shells ; 
Turkey croquettes, see No. 31 or No. 30, Chapter 3, Veal and 
veal sweetbread croquettes; Turkey pie, see No. 7, Chicken 
pie. The bones make a good soup. 



No. 19— ROASTED AND STUFFED TURKEY. 

Quantity for 10 — 15 Persons. 

The Stuffing. 
3 soaked rolls 2 tbsps. of butter 

Chopped liver, heart and gizzard 1 tbsp. of chopped parsley 
Salt, pepper 1 tsp. of lemon juice 

Preparation: Mix these ingredients well, stuff the turkey 
with the mixture and roast as directed in No. 18. Prepare the 
gravy the same as in No. 18. 

The Goose. 

The young goose or gosling has a soft gullet, a pale yel- 
low bill and feet with pointed claws. The bill and feet of old 
geese are reddish yellow. The color of the skin must be white, 
not purple or blue. 

.The time for fat geese is from October to January. 



— 100-1- 

No. 20— ROASTED YOUNG GOOSE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 young goose % lb. of butter 

Salt % onion, sliced 

6 pepper-corns 2 tbsps. of flour 

1 pt. cold water 

Preparation: The goose is cleaned and dressed. The 
wings, neck, head and feet chopped off. The fat is trimmed 
off, even "from the bowels, and is soaked in water separately 
from the meat. The goose is washed and left to soak in cold 
w:ater for 15 minutes, then dried and rubbed with salt inside 
and outside. Put it into the oven with 1 pt. of water, sliced 
onion and pepper-corns. When the water is boiled down pret- 
ty much, baste the goose frequently with browned butter. A. 
young goose will be done in ll^ hours. It should be of a light 
brown color and very crisp. Sprinkle a tablespoonful of cold 
water over it to make it crisp. 

Now prepare the gravy by stirring the flour into the drip- 
pings, cook it a few minutes and add water. Cook well, stram 
and serve with the goose. 



No. 21— FAT GOOSE STUFFED WITH APPLES. 

Quantity for 7 — 9 Persons. 

1 goose, 7 to 8 lbs. % sliced onion 
Salt 1 Vi pts. of water 

6 pepper-corns 

The Gravy. 

2 tbsps. of flour Some water 

The Stuffing. 

1% lbs. peeled, quartered apples % cup currants 

Preparation: The goose is prepared as described in the 
previous number, washed and salted inside and outside. 

The prepared apples are mixed well with the currants and 
stuffed into the goose, which is then sewed up. The goose is 
put into the oven in a covered roasting pan with the water, 
sliced onion and pepper-corns, and roasted for 1 hour. After 
that time, remove the cover, baste with the drippings every 
10 to 15 minutes, and if the water boils down, add spoonfuls 
of it so the fat will not get too larown. It may require from 3 
to 3 hours roasting before the goose is well done and crisp. 
Sprinkle a tablespoonful of cold water over the skin to make it 
more crisp. Then serve. 



-101— 



For the gravy, pour off nearly all of the grease and pre- 
pare as described in No. 20. If there is very much grease 
from the goose, skim some of it off while roasting. 



No. 2a— FAT GOOSE STUFFED WITH CHESTNUTS. 

Quantity for 7 — 9 Persons. 

The Stuffing. 
2 lbs. of chestnuts, the liver 3 tbsps. of butter 

1 pinch of salt 1 tsp. of sugar 

1 pinch of pepper Some water 

Preparation: The preparation and ingredients for goose 
and gravy are the same as in No. 31. The chestnuts are put 
into the oven ; when the shells burst take them out, peel them 
at once and chop them fine. Put them into a ketle over the 
fire with water, butter, 1 pinch of salt and 1 of pepper and 
sugar and cook until well done, then put in the chopped goose 
liver, stuff the goose with this mixture and sew it up. Prepare 
the roast and gravy as directed in No. 31. 



No. 23— FRIED GOOSE LIVER. 

Quantity for 7 — ^9 Persons. 
1 goose liver 1 pinch of pepper 

% pt. milk and water 1 piece "of butter for frying 

1 egg % cup of goose gravy or 

Some flour % tablespoonful of flour mixed 

Salt with broth 

Preparation : Carefully remove the gall from the liver and 
put the liver into milk diluted with water for 3 hours, dry it 
well, salt and pepper, dip into beaten egg, then into flour. Heat 
the butter and fry the liver 5 minutes to a liglht brown, turn- 
ing it several times. Serve on a hot platter. For the gravy, 
brown 14 tablespoonful of flour in the butter, add broth or 
water, cook well and serve with the liver. 



No. 24— GOOSE GIBLETS. 

Quantity for 2 — 3 Persons. 
From one goose the heart, giz- Salt 

zard, head, wings, feet and 4 pepper-corns 
neck 2 cloves 

1 qt. of water 1 bay-leaf 

% onion, sliced 

For the Gravy. 

2 tbsps. of butter Bouillon 

3 tbsps. of flour 1 yolk of 'egg 



— 102 — 

Preparation: The feet are scalded and skinned, the giz- 
zard emptied and also scalded and skinned, the gullet cut from 
the neck, tihe eyes taken out, wings, neck and head well cleaned 
and singed. Now put all this in a kettle over the fire with the 
water, onion, salt, peppers, cloves, bay-leaf and cook until 
tender. 

For the gravy, melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook and 
add the goose broth. The gravy must be smooth ; stir into it 
one yolk of egg and pour it on the giblets. Serve in a deep 
di^h. 

Fresh, peeled potatoes are good with it. 

Remarks: You may also utilize these goose giblets for 
soup and put in small potatoes. 



No. 25— GOOSE LIVER PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 large goose livers 2/3 pt. of bouillon 

% lb. veal 2 tbsps. of Madeira or red wine 

% lb. fat pork Salt, pepper 

6 truffles 3 yolks of eggs 

1 1^ lemon 1 tsp. of grated onion 

% lb. of butter Bacon slices to line the pan 

4 tbsps. of flour 

Preparation : Two -of the goose livers are larded with ob- 
long slices of peeled truffles. Drip the juice from l^/^ lemons 
on the livers and let stand for several hours. 

The % lb. of butter is heated, mixed with the flour, salt 
and pepper and % pt. of broth and Madeira added. The finely 
chopped or ground veal and pork are stirred into the thick 
gravy. The one goose liver is chopped, fried 2 minutes in Z 
tablespoonfuls of butter and the onion, salted and peppered 
and mixed into the filling. Fill all this into a deep baking pan 
or mold lined witJh bacon slices so that it makes 3 to 3 
layers of stuffing, alternating with slices of goose liver. Cover 
with slices of bacon, set in steamer over a kettle of boiling 
water and boil for 1^ Ihours or bake in oven for 1 hour. 

A truffle or Ma-deira gravy may be served with it. - 



No. 26— GOOSE LIVER PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 large goose livers 3 eggs 

% lb. of bacon 3 tbsps. grated Parmesan cheese 

3 tbsps. of butter 3 tbsps. of cream 

3 rolls soaked in milk , Salt, pepper 

% onion ' Butter for the mold 



—103— 

Preparation : Liver and bacon are chopped fine. Fry the 
butter, grated onion, and the roll a few minutes, then put in 
the chopped liver and bacon, salt, pepper, cheese, cream, 3 
yolks of eggs, the beaten whites and mix well. Put into a 
buttered mold, set in a steamer over a kettle of boiling water 
and boil for one hour, dump it on a plate and serve with a hot, 
brown gravy. This pudding may be made of duck liver as 
well ; truffles may be added to make it richer. It makes a fine 
dish garnished with roasted blackbirds. 



No. 27— ROASTED WILD GOOSE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 wild, young goose 2 tbsps. of butter 

8 large, sour apples 1 pinch of salt and pepper 

3 large onions 

For Roasting. 

% lb. of butter Some water 

Some slices of bacon 

The Gravy. 

1 % tbsps. of flour 1 cup of broth 

Preparation: Wild geese are usually very tough, there- 
fore take a young goose only. Clean and dress it well, let it 
soak in water for % hour, dry it and salt it inside and outside. 

The filling or stuffing is made by heating the butter, chop- 
ping the scalded onion and put into the butter together with 
the peeled and sliced apples, cut into %ths. Let these cook 
half done, then add 1 pinch of white pepper, salt and 3 pul- 
verized cloves, fill the goose with this and sew it up. 

Tie the slices of bacon across the breast of the goose and 
put into the oven with the water and % lb. of butter, basting 
it frequently. When the gravy gets too brown add more 
water. After it is well cooked, take off the string and bacon 
and serve it. 

The Gravy : Stir some flour into the broth, add water or 
more broth, cook a few minutes, strain and serve. 



No. 28— SMOKED GOOSE-BREAST. 

The breast of one goose 1 tsp. of saltpetre 

% lb. of sal; 1 tbsp. of sugar 

Preparation : The ^breast is cut from an undressed goose. 
Cut off the legs and the meat off the breast down to the bone. 
Be careful not to injure the outer skin. The small fillets are 
separated from the breast and it is rubbed well with y^ the 



—104 — 

quantity of salt, which has been mixed with the saltpetre and 
sugar until it dissolves. Replace the small fillets after salting 
them also, fold, and sew up the breast. Salt it well on the out- 
side and place into a crock for 7 days, turning it twice a day 
and basting it well with the brine that collects. On the eighth 
day wrap in paper, place it between two boards, well weighted, 
and draw a string through the top end of fat and skin by 
which to hang it up. Hang it into a smoke house in medium 
smoke for 8 to 10 days. Then place again between two boards 
weighted down for a few days. By this process the fat be- 
comes white and hard and the meat keeps better. 

The Duck. 
When the duck is 6 months old it makes the finest roast, 
but you may roast it up to a year old. The best time for duck 
is from August to the beginning of December. 



No. 29— ROAST DUCK. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
2 ducks 10 — 12 sweet-sour apples 

Salt 1 cup currants 

1 pinch of pepper 2 tbsps. of flour 

Some butter for roasting 1% cups of water 

Preparation: The duck is dressed, neck, wings and feet 
cut off and it is washed, dried and salted inside and outside. 
The apples are peeled, quartered, mixed well witlh the currants, 
filled into the duck and this sewed up. Put it into a pan with 
the water, 2 tbsps. butter, and roast for 1% hours, basting 
frequently. 

For the Gravy: If there is too much grease, pour some 
of it off, stir in the flour, brown it a little, add water, cook well, 
strain and serve with the duck. 



No. SO^ANOTHER FORM OF STUFFED DUCK. 
Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 

2 ducks 1 pinch of pepper 

Salt 2 tbsps. of butter for roast 

The Stuffing. 
Chopped heart, liver and gizzard 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

3 rolls, soaked Salt, pepper 

3 eggs % onion chopped finely 

1 tbsp. of finely chopped parsley 1 tbsp. of butter 

For the Gravy. 

2 tbsps. of flour 1 % cups of water 

Preparation : The ducks are dressed after cutting off 



^105 — 

neck, wings and feet, then washed and salted and strewn with 
1 pinch of pepper inside and outside. 

The stuffing is made of chopped liver, heart, gizzard, 
mixed witlh all the other ingredients and put into the ducts, 
which are then sewed up and treated just the same as de- 
scribed in No. 29. 

Prepare the gravy as given in No. 29. 



No. 31— FRIED DUCK-LIVER. 

This is prepared the same as described in No. 33. 



No. 3a— GOOSE AND DUCK SCHWARZ-SAUER. 
Black Soup. 

Quantity for 4 Persons. 
2 cloves 
Giblets of 1 goose or duck 4 pepper-corns 

Salt Scant 1 pt. of goose or duck 

% lb. prunes blood 

ii cup of sugar 1 Vz tbsps. of vinegar 

1 small stick of cinnamon 1 % qts. of water 

% lb. of peeled apples or pears 2 tbsps. of flour 

Preparation: Neck, head, feet, wings, heart and gizzard 
are cleaned well and cooked until tender in 1 qt. of water with 
salt, pepper and 2 cloves. The prunes and quartered apples or 
pears are cooked until done in 3/2 qt. of water. The blood is 
stirred with the flour into % of the broth from the gfiblets and 
poured back on again. The chopped fruit added, then seasoned 
with vinegar and sugar and brought to boil, stirring constantly. 
It must not coagulate. 



THE GAME BIRDS. 



THE PHEASANT. 

One can recognize the young bird by its less developed 
spurs and flexible bones. The pheasant may become 5 to 10 
years old. Freshly shot pheasants are not gfood to eat be- 
cause the meat is dry and hard. In winter the bird may be 
left hanging with its feathers for 2 to 3 weeks. 



— 106 — 

No. 33— FRIED PHEASANT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 thin slices of bacon to tie 
1 pheasant across the breast 

Salt 1 % tbsps. of flour 

% lb. of butter 1 cup of water 

% pt. sweet or sour cream 

Preparation: The young pheasant is dressed, carefully 
washed and dried, then salted inside and outside and the liver 
put back into the bird with a piece of butter. The slices of 
bacon are tied across the breast. 

Put the pheasant into the oven with % lb. of butter, baste 
it frequently and roast to a golden yellow. After 30 minutes, 
baste frequently with the cream' and water by spoonfuls. It 
will require 1 to 1^/^ hours to cook it well done. Before serv- 
ing, remove the bacon slices. 

Into the drippings stir the flour, brown it, if necessary add 
more water, cook and strain and serve the gravy with the bird. 



No. 34^FRIED OLD PHEASANT. 

The preparation is just the same as the one under No. 33, 
with the exception that it requires from 2% to 3 hours to cook 
the bird well done, therefore take a little more cream and 
water for basting and cover the roasting pan during part of 
the time to keep the bird from getting too dark. 



No. 35— PHEASANT PATTIES. 
In Shells or Other Small Molds. 
Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
% lb. roasted pheasant meat 3 chopped truffles 

3 tbsps. of butter % cup of chopped champignons 

3 tbsps. of flour Salt 

Pheasant broth from bones 1 pinch of pepper 

Vz wlneglassful of white wine Some butter for the molds 

2 eggs 

Preparation: The skin is removed from the meat. The 
meat, truffles and champignons are chopped fine. The bones 
are put on the fire with 3 qts of water, salt, a small piece of 
onion and boiled down to i/^ qt. of bouillon. Then the gravy 
is made by heating the 3 tablespoonfuls of butter and the same 
quantity of flour stirred in to brown, l^ qt. of boiiillon added 
and cooked. Season with salt and pepper, add white wine, 
meat, truffles and champignons and stir in tihe 2 yolks of eggs. 
Beat the whites of eggs and stir lightly into the mixture. 



— 107 — 

When this is done, fill the shells or buttered molds with the 
filling and bake in the oven to a nice brown color. 

Remarks: Truffles and champignons may be omitted. 

• No. 36— STEWED PHEASANT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 pheasant Salt 

Broth cooked from neck, wings, 2 — 3 wineglassfuls of white wine 

gizzard, liver, heart or sherry 

1 large onion, sliced 3 tbsps. of butter 

6 pepper-corns 3 tbsps. of flour 

1 small carrot, sliced 3 tomatoes, sliced 

2 bay-leaves 

Preparation: The pheasant is cleaned, dressed, put into a 
stewpot with 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, fried a little on all 
sides, the flour stirred in and then enough broth added to cover 
the bird. Put in the rest of the ingredients named above and 
roast slowly in the oven for 2 to 3% hours. 

Strain the gravy through a fine sieve and serve with the 

pheasant. 

No. 37— PHEASANT PIE. 
Quantity for 8 — 10 Persons. 

2 young pheasants % wineglassful of Madeira 
% lb. of butter Juice of % lemon 

Salt % pt. of champignons 

1% qts. broth from bones 1 small can of truffles 

Pie Cbntents. 
Liver, heart, gizzard, chopped Salt 

fine 1 pinch of pepper 

2% soaked rolls 1 tbsp. of butter 

3 eggs 1 tsp. of chopped onion 

Preparation: The pheasants are cleaned, dressed and fried 
in oven for 20 minutes with Yg lb. of butter. The meat is then 
removed from the bones and a good qt. of broth is made from 
the latter, seasoned with Madeira, salt, lemon juice. The 
champignons are quartered and the truffles sliced ; liver, heart, 
gizzard chopped fine, the rolls, salt, pepper, and yolk of egg 
stirred in. The onions are cooked a little in the drippings and 
the whole mixture added_and stewed a little while. The wlhites 
of eggs are beaten and stirred into the mixture after it has 
cooled. Now butter your dish and put in one-half of the gib- 
let filling as the bottom layer, then one layer of meat, then 
champignons and truffles, and so on until all tjhe meat, cham- 
pignons and truffles have been used. The broth is poured over 
the whole, the other half of the giblet filling put on the top 
and it is now baked in the oven for 11/4 hours. Serve it in the 
dish or casserole. 



— 108 — 

No. 38— RED GROUSE AND GUINEA HEN, 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 red grouse or 3 guinea hens 1 ^ tbsps. of flour 
% lb. of butter 1 cupful of water 

Salt Bacon slices to tie across the 

% pt. of cream breast 

Preparation: The preparation is the same as No. 33, 
Pheasant. It also requires 1 to 1% hours for cooking. 

Remarks : Grouse gets very tender when kept in butter- 
milk over night. 

No. 39— GROUSE PIE. 

Quantity for 14 Persons. 

3 red grouse % lb. of butter 
Buttermilk Salt 

Pie Filling. 

% lb. beef with bones 3 tbsps. of butter 

% lb. lean pork Juice of % lemon 

1 small can of truffles 1 tsp. of grated onions 

1 pt. can champignons 1 glass Madeira 

5 soakej rolls Salt 

4 eggs 1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: The grouse must be well hung; dress, salt 
and bake in hot oven with % lb. of butter for one hour, basting 
frequently. If buttermilk is to be obtained, put the grouse in 
buttermilk for 24 hours before baking. After frying, cut oflf 
the breasts and divide them into %ths. The other meat is 
cut from the bones and chopped fine, also the beef and pork. 
The soaked rolls are sauteed or dry fried in 3 tablespoonfuls 
of butter and 4 eggs stirred into tlhem. Now add grouse meat, 
beef, pork, salt, pepper, juice of % lemon, 1 wineglassful of 
Madeira, 1 teaspoonful of grated onion and mix well. The 
bones of the birds and beef are put on the fire with the cham- 
pignon and truffle juice and boiled down to % qt. of broth, 
half of which is stirred into the filling. 

Butter your dish or casserole and after lining it with paste, 
put in a layer of filling, then one of meat, strewing on some 
chopped champignons and truffles. Pour in the other % of 
the broth, cover with paste and bake in oven ly^ hours to a 
nice brown color. Serve with a Madeira gravy. 

The paste is made by mixing lightly 1/4 lb. of flour with 
y^ lb. of cold butter, i/^ glassful of cold water and 1 teaspoon- 
ful of brandy, then rolled out. 

Remarl^: These pies may be made of pheasants, heath 
cocks or hazel hens, snow hens, snipes, quails and partridges. 



— 109 — 

No. 40— FRIED PARTRIDGES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 young partridges % lb. of butter 

Salt % pt. sour cream 

Bacon slices 1 tbsp. flour 

Some water 

Preparation: After the birds have been cleaned, singed, 
dressed, wiped out and salted, tie the bacon slices around 
them, put them into a pan, pour on the hot butter and fry them 
for y^ hour, basting frequently and adding the cream by spoon- 
fuls. When well done, take off the bacon and serve with the 
following gravy. In the drippings, brown 1 tablespoonful of 
flour, add a little water if necessary, cook, strain and serve. A 
little white wine may be added to the gravy. 

No. 41— PARTRIDGE WITH SAUERKRAUT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 young part-ldges 1 wineglassful of white wine 

11^ lbs. of sauerkraut Water for the sauerkraut 

2 tbsps. of butter 1 tbsp. of flour 

2 thin slices of bacon 1 apple 

Preparation: The partridges are cleaned, singed, dressed 
and wiped out, bacon slices tied on and fried in 2 tablespoiDii- 
fuls of butter for 15 minutes. If the sauerkraut is too sour, 
soak it in water a while, drain, then put it on the stove with 
the partridges and a little water, white wine, sliced apple, 
cover and stew slowly for 2 hours. When the birds are tender, 
take off the bacon, stir a little flour into the sauerkraut; cook 
for a few minutes and serve with the birds. 



No. 42— FINE RAGOUT OF PARTRIDGE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 young partridges % lb. goose liver or 

1 pint champignons Calf sweetbreads 

1 piece of bacon for larding Salt 

For the Gravy. 

3 tbsps. of butter 1 tsp. of meat extract 

3 tbsps. of flour The champignon juice 

Broth from the bones 3 pepper-corns 

3 tbsps. of red wine Salt 

3 tbsps. of Madeira 1 pinch of sugar 

For the Dumplings. 
Heart, liver, gizzard, some meat Salt, pepper 

from the bones Some butter to fry the dumplings 

1 soaked roll A few slices of toasted wheat 

2 eggs bread 

1 tbsp. of butter 



— 110 — 

Preparation : The partridges are well prepared. Cut off 
the breast and drum sticks and all other meat from the bones. 
The latter are cracked, put on the fire with 3 tablespoonfuls of 
butter and flour, fried quickly, then ll^ qts. of water, the 
champignon juice, some salt, 3 pepper-corns added and boiled 
slowly for 2 hours to make 'l^ to % qt. of broth. Season this 
broth with red wine, Madeira, meat extract, sugar and strain 
it. Lard the breasts and fry them and the drum sticks or legs 
in butter. Cover and stew slowly for % hour until done. Drip 
tihe lemon juice on the goose liver, salt it and fry it in butter. 
If you have sweetbreads instead of goose liver, parboil in salt 
water for 10 minutes, remove the skin, drip on lemon juice and 
fry in butter. 

To make the dumplings, chop the liver, heart, gizzard and 
meat from. tIhe bones very fine and mix well with the soaked 
roll, one egg, butter, salt, pepper, some chopped champignons 
and shape into dumplingfs. Fry these liglht brown in butter or 
cook 10 minutes in broth. 

Toast the wheat bread slices, cut each partridge breast 
into 4 pieces, also the goose liver or sweetbreads. Place the 
toast on a hot platter, then on this the meat, breast, legs and 
the goose liver or sweetbreads. Put the champignons into the 
gravy and pour hot over the meat. Garnish the dish with the 
dumplings. 

This ragout may be made of capon, quail, hazel hen, snow 
hen, pheasant or snipe. 

No. 43— BLACKBIRDS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
12 blackbirds % tbsp. of flour 

% lb. of butter Vz tbsp. of white wine 

1 pinch of salt V2 cup of water or broth 

1 pinch of pepper 6 juniper berries 

For Stuffing. 
The intestines of the birds Vz tsp. of lemon juice 

2 % rolls Some salt and pepper 

2 tbsps. of butter 
Preparation: The blackbirds must be fresh. They are 
cleaned, the 'head skinned, the eyes taken out and bill and 
claws chopped off a bit. The legs are turned inward, the right 
foot stuck through the eye sockets and the claws joined. The 
intestines are taken out and the gizzard removed. Juniper 
berries and tIhe cleaned intestines are chopped fine, seasoned 
with salt, pepper, l^ teaspoonful of lemon juice and 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter. This stuffing is put into the birds and the 



— Ill- 
openings closed, fastening with toothpicks. They are then 
closely packed into a pan and the browned hot butter poured 
on, seasoned with more salt, pepper and 5 pulverized juniper 
berries, then fried 15 minutes, turning them over several 
times. The rolls are sliced and toasted, placed on a platter 
and the birds arranged neatly on the toast after removing the 
toothpicks. For the gravy, brown % tablespoonful of flour in 
the drippings, add water, wine, cook, strain and serve with 
the birds. 

You may drip some gravy on the toasted roll slices to 
make them more palatable. 

No. 44— LEIPZIG LARKS. 

These birds are prepared just like the blackbirds in No. 43. 
The intestines may also be used for the filling. 

No. 45— FRIED SNIPES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 snipes % tbsp. of flour 

hi lb. of butter 1 % toasted rolls 

Salt, pepper Some broth 

Bacon slices to tie around them 

Preparation: The snipes are prepared the same as the 
blackbirds or larks in No. 43 and No. 44. The gizzard is re- 
moved, the bacon slices are tied around the birds, after salting 
and peppering inside and outside ; then fry them in butter for 
20 minutes and serve them on the toast which has been soaked 
with some of the gravy. 

For the gravy, stir i^ tablespoonful of flour into the drip- 
pings, add broth, cook, strain and serve with the birds. These 
are garnished with snipe on toast made from the intestines. 

No. 46— SNIPE ON TOAST. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Intestines from the 3 birds with Salt, pepper 

the gizzard removed A few drops of lemon juice 

1 % tbsps. of butter % cup of bread crumbs 

1 yolk of egg 2 % rolls, sliced 

1 % tbsps. of red wine Some butter 

1 tsp. of chopped capers 1 tbsp. Parmesan cheese 

Preparation: The cleaned intestines are chopped and 
mixed well with butter, yolk of egg, red wine, parsley, capers, 
salt, pepper, bread crumbs and lemon juice. Cut the rolls in 
slices 14 inch thick, cut off the crust, toast them and put the 
above stuffing on thick, sprinkle some Parmesan cheese over 
and drip melted butter on, then bake them in the oven for 5 
minutes and place around the fried snipes. 



— 112 — 

No. 47— FRIED WOODCOCK. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 woodcock Salt 

% lb. of butter % qt. of sour cream 

% lb. of bacon for larding % pt. of bouillon or broth 

Preparation: The woodcock may hang 5 days before be- 
ing cooked. Skin, dress and pound it, wash and dry it well 
and salt it inside and outside, then lard with bacon. The 
woodcock is fried in tlie butter, the cream and broth are pour- 
ed on gradually and the bird stewed for 2 hours, basting fre- 
quently. By tlhis time the gravy will be boiled down and 
smooth, strain it and serve with the bird. 



No. 48— ANOTHER FORM OF FRIED WOODCOCK. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 woodcock or hen 1 carrot, sliced 

1 bottle of red wine A little thyme 

1 bottle wine vinegar Bacon slices 

3 bay-leaves Va lb. of butter 

10 pepper-corns Salt 

7 cloves 1 pt. sour cream 

1 onion, sliced 1 pt. bouillon 

Preparation: The woodcock is cleaned, dressed, tied, 
pressed into a jar and the bottle of red wine is emptied into 
this. The vinegar is boiled together with bay-leaves, pepper- 
corns, cloves, onion, carrot, thyme and when cooled, also 
poured on the bird ; in this it remains 3 to 3 days. 

After this time the bird is taken out, dried, rubbed with 
salt, bacon slices tied around it, fried in the butter, and stewed 
for 2 hours, basting frequently with cream and bouillon. The 
gravy is strained, the bacon slices are taken off the bird. It 
is served on a platter, some gravy poured over the bird and 
the rest served separately. 

Remarks : You may serve a Madeira or pickle gravy with 
it. 

No. 49— ROAST WILD DUCK. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 

2 young, wild ducks 1 bay-leaf 

1 pt. water 1 onion, sliced 
Vs lb. of butter 2 tbsps. of flour 

Bacon slices 1 wineglassful of red wine 

2 cloves Salt 

6 pepper-corns 

Preparation: The ducks are picked, singed, dressed, 
washed and skinned, salted inside and outside and tied into 



— 113 — 

bacon slices. The prepared ducks are put into a stewpot over 
the fire with 1 pt. of water, onion, cloves, pepper-corns, bay- 
leaves. Cover and stew. When the water is boiled down, 
pour the % lb. of hot butter over them and add a little water 
or broth so that the butter may not get too brown, also add 
the red wine. 15 minutes before they are done, stir in the 
flour, add more broth or water if necessary and cook. The 
ducks should be of a nice golden brown color. Serve them 
with the strained gravy. 

No. 50— ROAST CAPONS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 capon % lb. of butter 

Salt Bacon for larding 

For the Gravy. 
1 tbsp. of flour 1 tbsp. of wine 

Preparation : The capon is picked, dressed, the breast and 
drum sticks larded with bacon, and the bird salted inside and 
outside. Then the hot butter is poured over it and roasted 1% 
hours until done, basting frequently with cream. 

For the gravy, brown the flour in the drippings, add the 
wine, and broth or water, cook, strain and serve with the bird. 



No. 51— FRIED CAPON RAGOUT. 

May be made from the capon. Prepare it just the same 
as described in No. 42, Fine Partridge Ragout. 



No. 52— STEWED CAPON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 capon 1 wineglassful of red -wine 
Salt 1 tsp. of lemon juice 

6 pepper-corns 1 tsp. of sugar 

2 onions, sliced % pt. champignons 

% of a celery Some bouillon or water 

% carrot, sliced % lb. of butter 

1 clove 2 tbsps. of flour 

1 bay-leaf 

Preparation: The capon is prepared well and tied into 
bacon slices, then fried in % lb. butter for 1/2 hour. 

For the gravy, stir in the flour, fill up with bouillon or 
water mixed with a teaspoonful of meat extract and the rest 
of the ingredients and in this gravy stew the capon 45 minutes 
to 1 hour, basting and turning it frequently. Serve the capon 



—114 — 

and strain the gravy. Quarter the champignons and put them 
into the gravy. Pour in the champignon juice while stewing. 
Remarks: You can take oysters instead of champignons, 
allowing 3 or 4 to each person. Before serving the bird, re- 
move bacon and strings. 

No. 53— RED GROUSE CUTLETS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 grouse 1 — 2 eggs 

8 tbsps. thick, sweet cream 1 % cups of roll crumbs 

Some salt % lb. of butter, good measure 

% cup of flour 

Preparation: The grouse or other poultry is cleaned 
well and the meat removed from the bones while raw. Chop 
tihe meat and remove skin and tendons. Mix with the cream 
and salt. Shape into cutlets 1% inches thick, dip into flour, 
then into the well beaten egg and finally into the bread 
crumbs. Stick small bones into the cutlets and fry in butter 
to a nice color. These cutlets are very good served with vege- 
tables. 

Remarks : These cutlets may be made from all fine game 
birds, i e., partridge, pheasant, hazel hen, snow Ihen ; also from 
chicken. 

From the bones you can make soup, which will be better 
if the bones have been fried in "butter and soupgreens a little 
while. 

No. 54^ROAST POULARD. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
1 poulard % pt. sweet or sour cream 

Salt 1 tsp. of lemon juice 

Vi lb. of butter 2 tbsps. of flour 

Bacon slices to tie over the breast 1 cup of water 

Preparation: The Poulard or French pheasant is cleaned, 
dressed, washed, dried and salted inside and outside. Bacon 
slices are tied over the breast and drum sticks. Roast in hot but- 
ter, adding the water, for 1 to 1% hours, a piece of butter be- 
ing put inside the bird also. Baste frequently with water and 
cream. It should be roasted to a" nice golden brown color. 

Serve on a hot platter after taking of? the bacon and 
strings. 

Into tIhe drippings stir some flour, water or cream if nec- 
essary, the lemon juice, cook, strain and serve with the bird. 
The gravy should be smooth and of a light brown color. 



—US- 
No. 55— POULARD FRICASSEE. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 

Prepare like recipe No. 10, Chicken Fricassee. It will 
make a very fine side-dish. 



No. 56— DUCK RAGOUT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 duck 1 cup of water 

1 tbsp. of butter Salt 

For the Gravy. 

2 tbsps. of butter 6 pepper-corns 

2 tbsps. of duck grease 3 sprays of parsley 

2 % tbsps. of flour 2 cloves 

1 % pts. of bouillon or water % pt. of port wine 

Duck stock Juice of % lemon 

% cup of champignon juice 3 truffles 

Salt % pt. champignons 

Preparation: The duck is cleaned, dressed, waslhed, salted 
and fried 1% to 2 hours, in 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 cup 
of water, basting frequently. 

For the gravy, brown the flour in the 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter, add the duck stock and cook a little while; then add 
the bouillon, red wine or port wine, champignon juice, lemon 
juice, salt, pepper-corns, cloves, parsley and truffle parings. 
Cook the gravy for 15-30 minutes, strain through a fine sieve. 
Cut the champignons in half and put them into the strained 
gravy. Carve tJhe duck and put it into the gravy too and steep 
another 15 minutes. Heap the ragout in the middle of a hot 
platter. Put the peeled truffles which were fried in 1 teaspoon- 
ful of butter for 2 minutes, over the ragout. Garnish with puff 
paste scallops, (see preparation in No. 29, Chapter 3, PufF- 
paste Patties with Veal Ragout), and with dumplings. These 
are made by chopping very fine the heart, gizzard and liver, 
mixed well with one soaked roll, one egg, 1 tablespoonful of 
chopped champignons, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 
pinch of salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Saute or dry fry (which 
means cooking food in a small amount of fat) in % tablespoon- 
ful of butter and add % grated roll. Then form small dump- 
lings from tlhis mixture and fry them to a light brown in but- 
ter or duck grease. 

Remarks: This duck ragout is a very fine side-dish. 



— 116 — 



CHAPTER 7. 
GAME. 



Game must not be soaked in water and it should be 
washed only when necessary and then quickly dried. The 
flavor of game depends greatly on its preparation, the latter 
makes it one of the finest dishes. Game ought to be fried 
and roasted ; boiled game is never as savory. 

Butter, bacon and cream are the best fats in whidh to fry 
game. Sweet-sour victuals are best to serve with game as: 
Red cabbage, apple sauce, currant jelly and Cumberland sauce. 



No. 1— ROAST SADDLE OF VENISON. 

Quantity for 6 — 10 Persons. 

1 saddle of venison 1 pt of sour cream, good measure 

Salt 1 tsp. of lemon juice 

1 pinch of pepper 1 % tbsps. of flour 

Bacon for larding % cupful water 

% lb. of butter 

Preparation : The deer, fawn or doe must hang in its skin 
a few days before it is cooked. The neck is cut off. The ribs 
are chopped off if they are too long. The skin is taken off, 
the meat pounded and larded closely with bacon strips ; place 
a thin slice of bacon under the fillets. .Fry the venison on both 
sides with part of the i^ lb. of butter, put the rest of the but- 
ter into the pot or pan and roast the meat 45 minutes, basting 
frequently with the sour cream. The roast should be pink in- 
side and very juicy. Put it on a hot platter and prepare the 
gravy. 

Stir tihe flour into the frying butter, brown it a few min- 
utes, add the water, cook 5 minutes and add the lemon juice, 
then strain. 

Remarks: The remnants of this venison may be utilized 
in a soup. Fry them with some butter or lard and soupgreens 
and a tablespoonful of flour, add water and cook slowly for 
two hours. For directions refer to No. 63 and 64 under Soups, 
Chapter 1. 



—117— 

No. 2— LEG OF VENISON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 leg of venison, S % to 4 lbs. % lb. of bacon cut in wide, thin 

Salt slices, for lining the pan 

% lb. of butter 1 tbsp. of flour 

% qt. sour cream % cup of water 

% lb. bacon strips 

Preparation : The meat is pounded on both sides, washed, 
dried, skinned and larded with bacon. The joint of the leg- is 
chopped. Scald the leg with a pint of boiling water and place 
it into the hot butter in the roasting pan, brown it on both 
sides, then place the bacon slices on the bottom of the pan and 
the leg of venison on top of tlhem, roast in the oven for one 
hour, basting it often with spoonfuls of cream. 

The Gravy: After the leg of venison is done, stir the flour 
into the drippings, brown it for 2 minutes, then add the water, 
cook for 5 minutes and strain. 

Remarks: With a tablespoonful of red wine you can im- 
prove the gravy. If you wish to have the meat rare, allow % 
hour for roasting. Add or subtract some of the time for fry- 
ing according to the size of the piece of venison. 



No. 3— VENISON CUTLETS. 

2% lbs. of venison from back Salt 

or loin Scant Va lb. of butter 

For the Gravy. 
% lb. of butter 1 pinch of sugar 

3 tbsps. of flour Salt 

1 qt. of water 1 clove 

% pt. of Madeira 1 tsp. of meat extract 

Some soupgreens % tsp. of lemon juice 

1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: The meat is skinned, cut into % inch slices, 
each having a rib bone, then tlhey are pounded on both sides 
and salted. Chop the scraps and fry them with the soup- 
greens, lig-ht brown in hot butter, stir in the flour and brown 
it, add the water and season with salt, pepper, sugar, lemon 
juice, Madeira and clove and cook slowly for II/2 hours. Strain 
the gravy and put into it the meat extract and truffle slices 
and stew a little while. The cutlets are fried 4 minutes in the 
Yg lb. of butter; serve on a hot platter and pour the gravy, 
which should be smooth, over it. 

Remarks: You may also pour tomato or champignon 
gravy over tihe meat. The platter with the cutlets would look 
well garnished with pufF-paste scallops. 



— ^118 — 

No. 4— DEER OR DOE LIVER. 

Quantity lor 2 Persons. 
1 deer or doe liver 1 tbsp. of chopped onion 

Salt 2 tbsps. of vinegar 

1 pinch of pepper 2 tbsps. of water 

% lb. of butter % tsp. of meat extract 

% tbsp. of flour 

Preparation: The liver is washed and dried. Trim off the 
membrane, cut into even thin slices, salt and pepper and fry- 
quickly in the hot butter. Onion and flour are stirred in and 
stewed with the liver. Then the water, vinegar and meat ex- 
tract are added and cooked well ; when done, serve at once 
because the liver will get hard and tough when standing. 



No. 5— VENISON RAGOUT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 — 4 lbs. of venison 6 pepper-corns 

% lb. of butter 2 cloves 

4 tbsps. of flour 1 bay-leaf 

1 Vz qts. of water Juice of % lemon 

Vz onion, sliced 1 tumblerful of red wina 

Salt 

Preparation: The meat is cut into 3 inch squares. The 
^ lb. of butter is browned with the flour, then water is added 
and all the spices and cooked 5 minutes. The meat is put into 
this gravy, the pot well covered and % hour before done, the 
red wine is added. If the gravy has boiled down too far, add 
some more water. When the ragout is done, take out the meat, 
strain the gravy and pour it over the meat, serve on a hot plat- 
ter. The gravy should be smooth. This meat should be 
cooked in an iron pot. 

Renxarks: Potato dumplings are nice with venison rag- 
out. 

No. 6— TO CARVE A LEG OF VENISON. 

Leg of deer, doe or reindeer may be carved like a leg of 
veal. From the leg, remove first the skin and membrane and 
you will recognize the parts called the fricandeaux. On top 
of the leg lies a flat piece, on the side of it a piece that has the 
shape of a small fillet. These pieces may be used for fricassee 
or they may be filled and roasted. You may leave these pieces 
on the leg and lard and roast it with them. The tail end is 
chopped off, chopped in small pieces, and with the last ribs 
which are attached to it, a soup is cooked. 

Remarks : All uncooked game keeps in vinegar or milk. 



— 119 — 

No. 7— SADDLE OF VENISON. 
Quantity for 14 — 16 Persons. 
1 saddle of venison, 8 to 10 lbs. 2 tbsps. of white wine 
Salt 6 pepper-corns 

% lb. of butter 2 cloves 

% lb. of bacon for larding 2 tbsps. of flour 

1 pt. sour cream 1 cup of water 

1 tsp. of lemon juice 1 tsp. of meat extract, if necessary 

Preparation: The joints are chopped in several places so 
the meat lies flat in the pan, then it is skinned, washed, larded 
well, salted and fried on both sides in the hot butter ; then put 
into the oven with all the spices and left to roast for 2 to 3 
hours, basting frequently with the sour cream. 

For the gravy, stir in the flour, brown it a little, then add 
the water and cook with the roast for 15 minutes. Strain the 
gravy and if the color is too light, add the meat extract. 



No. 8— LEG OF VENISON. 
Quantity for 14 — 18 Persons. 

1 leg of venison, 10 lbs. 1 pt. of sour cream 
Salt 2 tbsps. of flour 

6 pepper-corns 1 cup of water 

2 cloves 1 tsp. of lemon juice 
% lb. of butter 2 tbsps. of white wine 

% lb. of bacon for larding 

Preparation: The preparation is the same as described in 
No. 7, only the time for frying is longer, from 3 to 3% hours. 

Remarks : If the meat is from an old animal, it is best to 
keep it in milk, wine or vinegar for 2 to 3 days. 



No. 9— ANOTHER FORM OF LEG OF VENISON. 

Quantity for 14 — 18 Persons. 
1 leg of venison, 10 lbs. Some melted butter . 

Salt Rolled out bread dough 

1 sheet of paper 

For the Gravy. 
% lb. of butter and 3 pepper-corns 

% lb. of drippings 2 tbsps. of flour 

Salt Bouillon cooked from remnants 

1 clove 1 tumblerful of port wine 

Preparation : The meat is skinned, the bone trimmed out, 
washed and salted. A sheet of paper buttered or brushed with 
fine salad oil, is wrapped around the meat, then it is enveloped 
in a layer of white bread dough. Heat 1/4 lb. of drippings and 
1/4 lb. of butter, place the leg of venison into it and roast for 



— 120 — 

5 to 5y2 hours, basting it often. Remove paper and crust, 
When done, and brush the meat with gravy. 

The gravy is prepared by browning the flour in the drip- 
pings, adding all the spices, the port wine, and the bouil- 
lon, then cooking it well. If the gravy is too greasy, skim it 
olif and strain before serving. 

Currant jelly or apple sauce is served with this meat. 

No. 10— CHOPPED STEAK OF GAME. 
Deer, Doe, Boar or Wild Rabbit Meat is Used. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of meat Salt 

% lb. of bacon 1 pinch of pepper 

Va lb. butter Scant % lb. of butter for frying 

For the Gravy. 

1 tbsp. of flour 1 tsp. of lemon juice 
3 tbsps. of cream % cup of water 

1 tbsp. of capers 

Preparation: The membrane and tendons are removed 
from the meat, then it is dhopped or ground fine together with 
the bacon and mixed well with % lb. of butter, salt, pepper and 
shaped into steaks. 

The other portion of butter is heated and in this the steak 
is fried 10 minutes on the stove, basting and turning often. 
Put it on a hot platter and prepare the gravy. 

If there is too much drippings left, take some out, stir in 
the flour, brown a few minutes, then add all the ingredients 
and cook well, pour it over the steak, serve immediately. 

No. 11— COLD GAME PIE. 
Made From Deer, Doe, Boar or Rabbit Meat. 

A good way to utilize the remnants of game roasts. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. frifd or roasted game % lb. of truffles, sliced 
% lb. of butter 4 eggs 

Salt Vi lb. finely chopped sardines 

1 pinch of pepper 2 soaked rolls 

1 tsp. of grated onion Some butter for the dish 

% lb. finely grated Parmesan cheesj 

Preparation: The meat is chopped or ground very fine. 
The butter is melted — add to it the rolls, chopped sardines 
(from which the bones have been removed) and onions, one 
whole egg and 3 yolks of eggs. This mixture is stirred on the 
stove and left to stew until dry. 



— 121 — 

After cooling it off, add the chopped meat, salt and pep- 
per. Press the whole through a sieve so there will be no 
dhunks or pieces. Into this mass stir the truffle slices, the 
beaten whites of eggs, and the Parmesan cheese. 

Fill a buttered dish or casserole with this mixture, cover 
it, set it in a steamer over a kettle of boiling water and boil 
11/^ hours. After cooling, turn it out on a platter, garnish the 
platter with prepared lettuce. This makes a fine dish for an 
evening dinner. 

Remarks : This pie may also be served hot ; then serve a 
game gravy or herb gravy with it. 

No. 12— GAME RAGOUT MADE FROM REMNANTS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% lbs. cold game remnants, 1 small onion 

either deer, doe, rabbit or Salt 

wild boar meat 1 pinch of j)epper 

% lb. of bacon 1 pt. bouillon, boiled from the 

1 tbsp. of butter bones 

2% tbsps. of flour % cup sour or sweet cream 

1% tbsps. of lemon juice 2 vinegar or dill pickles, sliced 

Preparation: The meat is cut from the bones in nice, 
equal pieces. The bones are brought to boil in 2 qts. of cold 
water and boiled down to 1 pt. of broth or bouillon. 

Cut the bacon into cubes and brown it in the butter, onion 
slices and flour and add the bouillon. If you have left-over 
game gravy, add that too, season with salt, pepper, lemon 
juice and cream and cook slowly for 20 minutes, then strain 
and cut the pickles into it. Put the meat pieces into this 
gravy and let it get hot, but do not cook or the meat will get 
tough. The gravy must be smooth. After heating, serve at 
once. 

Remarks : If you wish to have the ragout very fine, omit 
the pickles and take truffles or champignons instead. 

No. 13— LEG OR SADDLE OF WILD BOAR. 

Quantity for 14 — 18 Persons. 
10 — 14 lbs. of wild boar meat 

For Pickling. 
5 qts. of vinegar 1 doz. juniper berries 

10 pepper-corns 1 large onion, sliced 

3 cloves 

For Frying. 
1 bottle of red wine Salt 

1 qt. of bouillon 



— 122 — 

To Cover the Roast. 

1 lb. grated rye bread 3 tbsps. of sugar 

% lb. of butter 4 pulverized cloves 

For the Gravy. 

3 tbsps. of flour mixed with some 1 tsp. of meat extract 
water > 

Preparation: The roast is pounded, the surface scored or 
cut in squares and the meat placed into a deep pot or jar. Vine- 
gar, pepper, juniper berries, cloves and onion slices are put in 
and left with the meat for 3 days. After this time take the roast 
out and roast it in a deep roaster with all that was on it in the 
jar, except the vinegar. Instead of that, pour on the red wine 
and bouillon, season with salt and roast in the oven for 3% 
hours. Then strew tihe roast with rye bread crumbs which 
have been mixed with l/^ lb. of butter, pulverized cloves and 
3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Roast it 30 minutes longer so the 
crust will get hard and brown. In the meantime add the flour 
mixed with water to the gravy and cook it a while, then strain, 
add the meat extract, cook again, taste for salt and spices and 
skim off the fat. 

Remarks : The remnants of roast are utilized in the same 
way as those of pork roast. 



No. 14— HOW TO SKIN A RABBIT. 

Hang the animal up by its hind legs on two nails, rip the 
rabbit from tail to throat, lengthwise. Take out the insides, 
cut tihe bile carefully from the liver, retain the latter and the 
heart and lungs, and throw away the rest of the intestines. 
Now separate the fur skin from the inner skin, make a cut 
through the fur around each ankle, pull the legs through, cut 
off the ears and pull the whole fur skin down from the hind 
legs over the head. 

No. 15— RABBIT ROAST. 

Quantity for 4 Persons. 
1 rabbit % Pt- sour or sweet cream- 

% lb. bacon for larding 1 tsp. of lemon juice 

Salt 1% tbsps. of flour 

1 pinch of pepper 1 cup of water 

Scant l^ lb. of butter 

Preparation: The dressed rabbit is washed and dried, 
head, throat and the skin from' the belly and its fore paws are 
cut off and the joints of its hind paws are chopped. The back 
and legs are larded with tihin slices of bacon. The butter is 



— 123 — 

heated and the larded hare is placed into it to roast for 45 
minutes. Season with salt and pepper and baste frequently 
with cream. If it is an old hare, it will require li/4 hours for 
roasting. Ten minutes before the hare is done, add the lemon 
juice and the flour and stew 5 minutes, then pour in the water, 
leave the hare in this gravy 5 minutes longer, then serve it 
with the strained gravy. 

No. 16— STEWED RABBIT. 

Quantity for 4 Persons. 

1 rabbit 2 cloves 

% lb. ol butter 2 cups of rye bread crumbs 

% lb. of bacon % bottle of red wine 

Salt, pepper 

Preparation: The rabbit is prepared as described in No. 
15, well larded, cut into pieces large enough for each person. 
The forelegs may be larded too. These pieces are fried in 14 
lb. of butter until they are light brown. Now pour the drip- 
pings into a deep roasting pot, add the bacon slices and make 
a layer of hare meat, season with salt, pepper, cloves and put 
on 1 cup of rye bread crumbs. Over this pour the red wine. 
After making another layer of meat and bread crumbs, cover 
the pot well and stew slowly 2 to 2J4 hours. Serve the meat 
on a hot platter, strain the gravy, flavor and pour it over the 
meat. If the pot cannot be closed tightly, paste a strip of 
paper or cloth around the rim and cover. 

Remarks: Potato dumplings are good with this meat. 



No. 17— ANOTHER FORM OF STEWED RABBIT. 

Quantity for 4 Persons. 

The preparation is the same as given under No. 16 with 
the exception of taking ]^ pt. of sour cream instead of wine 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of flour instead of rye bread crumbs. 

The hare is prepared and cooked the same as given under 
No. 16. If the gravy is too thick, add more water. 



No. 18— RABBIT CUTLETS. 

Quantity for 4 Persons. 

1 rabbit 1 small piece of bacon 

Salt Grated wheat bread for breading 

1 pinch of pepper 1 egg 

2 eggs Some melted butter 



— 124— 

For the Gravy. 

% pt. broth Juice of one lemon 

1 % tbsps. of flour Ms tsp. of sugar 

Vs lb. of butter Salt 

1 -wineglassful of red wine 

Preparation: All meat is cut from a well dressed rabbit, 
skin and membrane removed ; the bacon and meat are chopped 
or ground fine, seasoned with salt and pepper and mixed well 
with 2, eggs and small cutlets formed. The butter is heated, 
the cutlets brushed with it, then dipped into the bread crumbs 
and finally into the beaten egg. Some ribs are cut off the 
skeleton and stuck into eaclh cutlet. The butter for frying is 
put into a pan, heated and the cutlets fried to a nice brown 
color. The gravy has been prepared by browning the heart, 
liver and lungs in 11/^ tablespoonfuls of flour, then adding 
1 pt. of broth or water, putting into this all the bones 
and seasoning with salt, cloves, and 4 pepper-corns. Cook the 
gravy for % hour and add the red wine or port wine, lemon 
juice and sugar. Strain and serve with the cutlets. Garnish 
the platter with currant jelly. 



No. 19— HASBNPFEFFER (RABBIT PEPPER). 

Quantity for 2 — 4 Persons. 
The head, neck, breast, lungs. Salt 

forelegs, heart, liver, 1 lb. 4 pepper-corns 

of rabbit meat or lean pork 2 cloves 
Some vinegar 1 bay-leaf 

1 small onion 2 pts. of water 

% lb. of bacon or butter 1 tbsp. of sugar 

3 tbsps. of flour . % cup of red wine (or not) 

Preparation: The head, neck, breast, lungs, heart, liver 
and forelegs are cleaned well, cut in medium large pieces and 
left in vinegar for 1 day. 

After the rabbit has been fried, cut 1 lb. of pork into me- 
dium large pieces. Cut the bacon into small cubes and fry it, 
or if you use butter, heat this and fry the finely sliced onion 
and pork in it and the rabbit meat which has been soaked in 
vinegar. 

For the gravy, stir the flour into the drippings, stew a few 
minutes, then add water and all the spices and other ingredi- 
ents. Then slowly cook the meat until tender in the gravy. 
When it is done, take the meat out and serve on a hot platter, 
strain the gravy and pour over the meat. 

Remarks: You may omit the rabbit meat and pork and 



— 125— 



use only the iheart, lungs, liver, head, neck, breast and foreleg's 
if these are sufficient. You may also stir a little vinegar into 
some rabbit blood and add to the gravy. The liver may be 
omitted and fried separately. 



No. 20— RABBIT LIVER. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
1 rabbit liver Some flour 

1 pinch of salt and pepper 1 piece of butter for frying 

1 well beaten egg 1 slice of lemon 

Preparation: The liver must be very fresh. As soon as 
the rabbit is shot, dress it, take the liver out and prepare it 
the same day. If you cannot do this the same day, it is better 
to leave the liver and prepare it with the rabbit. 

The fresh liver is washed, sliced, seasoned with salt and 
pepper, dipped into egg and flour, then fried quickly in some 
hot butter and served at once on a hot platter. Place a lemon 
slice on it. 

No. 21— RABBIT ROAST SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of hare roast 1 tsp. of mustard 

3 medium sized, boiled potatoes Salt 

2 hard boiled yolks of eggs 1 pinch of pepper 
2 raw yolts of eggs 1 tsp. of capers 
% pt. fine salad oil 1 tsp. of sugar 
"Wine vinegar according to taste % cupful of cream 

Preparation: The meat and potatoes are cut into small 
pieces. The 2 hard boiled yolks of eggs are mixed well and 
stirred with the 2 raw yolks, the oil dripped in, cream, vinegar 
and the other ingredients mixed in. Taste the gravy and stir 
lightly into it the meat and potatoes, tlhen heap it in a glass 
dish, chop the 2 whites of eggs and strew over the salad. 



No. 22— RABBIT PIE. 

2 young rabbits 2 eggs 
1 piece of bacon for larding Salt 

% lb. chopped pork 1 pinch of pepper 

1 % rolls 1 tbsp. of butter for the filling 

For Frying. 
% lb. of butter 1 bay-leaf 

3 tbsps. of flour 6 pepper-corns 
1 % qts. of water or bouillon 1 clove 

1 small onion Lemon peel 

% bottle of white wine 1 small can of truffles, sliced 



— 126 — 

Preparation: Shoulders and legs are cut oif and the rest 
of the meat removed from the bones and chopped very fine, al- 
so the pork. Mix this well with the soaked rolls, eggs, butter, 
salt and pepper. 

Line the bottom and sides of the dish with this mixture. 
The meat from the loins of the rabbits is cut into nice pieces, 
fried brown in l^ lb. of butter and put into the pie with the 
sliced truffles. 

Now prepare the gravy. Into the butter in which the pieces 
of meat have been fried, stir 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, brown 
and add 1% qts. of water or bouillon. Season it with all the 
spices, onion, salt, bay-leaf, pepper, clove, lemon juice, white 
wine and the truffle peelings and cook slowly for 1 hour. Strain 
the gravy and pour % of it into the pie, put on another layer 
of the filling, bake in medium hot oven for li^ hours or cover 
the dish well and set it in a steamer over a kettle of boiling 
water and boil iy2 hours. The remainder of the gravy should 
be served hot with the pie. 

Remarks: The bones are chopped up and broth cooked 
from them which is used for the gravy to make this rich and 
palatable. 

Remarks : This, pie may be served cold. 



No. 23— DOMESTIC RABBIT ROAST. 

Quantity for 4 Persons. 
1 domestic rabbit Vz cup of sour or sweet cream 

% lb. of bacon 1^ tbsps. of flour 

% lb. of butter % cup of water 

Salt 

Preparation: The domestic rabbit is prepared and cooked 
the same as described under No. 15, Rabbit Roast. 



No. 24^STUFFED DOMESTIC RABBIT ROAST. 

Quantity for 4 — 6 Persons. 

1 domestic rabbit % cup of sour or sweet cream 
% lb. of bacon 1 % tbsps. of flour 

% . lb. of butter % cup of water 

Salt 

For Stuffing. 
Heart, liver, kidneys of the 2 eggs 

rabbit 1 tbsp; of butter 

2 soaked rolls 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

Salt, pepper, nutmeg 



—127 — 

Preparation: The domestic rabbit is prepared like the 
rabbit under No. 14, but the legs, neck and breast are left on, 
because it is going to be stuffed. It is washed well inside and 
outside and salted. Heart, liver and kidnevs are chopped fine 
and mixed well with the soaked rolls and the other ingredients. 
The rabbit is filled with this stuffing and sewed up, the back 
well larded and fried on all sides light brown in hot butter. 
Then it is roasted in the oven for 1% hours, basting frequently 
with the cream and lemon juice. 

Remarks : The domestic rabbit may be made into ragout. 
See No. 5, Doe or Deer Ragout. 

Remarks : The stuffing may be improved by adding cham- 
pignons or truffles or % lb. of chopped pork. 



No. 25— LAPINS. 

Lapins, the European hare, are prepared like rabbit. See 
No. 33 and No. 24. 



-128- 



CHAPTER 8. 
FISH. 



THE VARIOUS PREPARATIONS OF FISH AND THE 
UTILIZING OF REMNANTS. 



Every fislh has a season when it is most savory. During 
the breeding or spawning season, no fish is good. When you 
buy a dead fish, observe carefully the following: 

1. The meat of the fish must be firm and must not show 
any form of decay, neither in smell nor taste. 

2. The skin must be tight on the fish. 

3. Both eyes must be clear, not milky or sunken. 

4. The gills must be red and slimy. Fish frozen very 
hard are not especially good. 

The meat of middle sized fish is more savory than that 
of large ones. 

When you buy live fish, take the lively ones, not those 
that swim on their side or back. The bought fish are best 
killed in the market. The quickest way of killing a fish is to 
stun it with a blow on the head or neck, then cutting, its throat 
and its tail. 

You scale tihe fish by taking hold of its tail and with a 
sharp knife or fish scaler scraping off the scales from there 
towards the head. 

To retain the nourishing qualities of the fish, it is not 
soaked in water, only washed and boiled immediately. Whole 
fish are put on the fire with cold or hot water. Pieces of fish 
are put on with boiling water or prepared in hot butter or 
lard to retain the nutriment in the fish, since the hot water or 
fat contracts the cells at the cuts. The skin of a whole fish 
retains the nutriment, therefore it may be put on the fire in 
cold water. 

Fish must not be covered up wlhile cooking or frying so 
that the temperature will not get too high. Frozen fish must 
be thawed completely before using; if this is not done, the in- 
side of the fish is mostly rare when serving it. No dish will 



— 129 — 

be good when the fish or meat used is prepared in a frozen 
state. 

Fish are dressed by making a slight cut along the whole 
under side and taking out all intestines. The inner darker 
membrane must be entirely removed and the fish washed well. 

No. 1— TO BOIL. 

Whitefish, shellfish, pike, codfish, pickerel, bass, black 
bass, wihite bass, flounders, plaice or sole, carp, salmon, trout, 
brook trout, cabeljou, river trout. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3% — 4 lbs. of flsh 4 cloves 

4 qts. of water 1 large onion 

Salt 2 bay-leaves 

10 pepper-corns % lemon, sliced 

Preparation : The fish is dressed and washed. Into a fish 
kettle pour 4 qts. of water, all the spices and enough salt to 
make it quite salty. Place the fish on the tray of the kettle in 
a swimming position and bring slowly to boil 5 minutes in 
cold or hot water, then set back to draw Yz hour. When the 
meat near the gills is not bloody any more, the fish is done. 
Before serving, rinse it with hot water to remove the scum 
and place on the platter in a swimming position. It is then 
garnished with lemon slices, parsley, lettuce and potatoes. 

Witlh the fish is served a fish gravy, mustard gravy, 
Bearnaise gravy or fresh creamed butter, browned butter, 
mustard butter, parsley butter, etc. 

No. 2— BAKED FISH. 
Any qf the varieties named in No. 1. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3% — 4 lbs. of flsh 1% cups of sour or sweet cream 

% lb. of fresh butter % tsp. of meat extract 

Salt Juice of % lemon 

3 pepper-corns 1 tbsp. of capers 

Some flour 1 tbsp. of Parmesan cheese 

Preparation: The fish is dressed, washed and dried, salted 
inside and outside arid rolled in flour. It is placed into a pan 
or if possible an earthen or porcelain dish in which the butter 
has been heated; then put into the oven and baked for 10 
minutes to a light yellow color. Baste with the cream and 
lemon juice, sprinkle with the- Parmesan cheese, and add the 
capers and pepper-corns. In this gravy stew it Yt. hour, then 
prepare carefully on a hot platter and serve. Strain the gravy 



— 130 — 

through a sieve to remove all lumps, i. e., make it smooth. If 
it is too thick, add some creami or milk and pour it on tihe fish 
or serve it extra. 

Remarks: This preparation is very fine. A little meat 
extract makes the sauce look more delicate. 



No. 3— FISH STEAMED OR STEWED IN RED WINE 

GRAVY. 

Any one of the varieties named in No. 1. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3% — 4 lbs. of fish 3 slices of lemon 

Salt % carrot, sliced 

Vs lb. of butter Small piece of celery root 

3 tbsps. of flour 1 small piece of parsley root 

1 pt. of water or bouillon 6 pepper-corns 

1 pt. of red wine 2 cloves 

1 tsp. of meat extract 2 bay-leaves 

% onion, sliced 1 tbsp. of sugar 

Preparation : The fish is dressed, washed, dried, salted in- 
side and outside and left in a cold place for IJ^ hours. The 
gravy is then prepared. Brown the butter and flour and mix 
in all the ingredients, also red wine ; add water or bouillon and 
cook slowly 1J4 hours and strain. It must be smooth and 
palatable. 

Rub the salt off, put the fish into a porcelain or earthen 
dish in which the ounce of butter has been melted and roast 
in the oven for 10 minutes, basting frequently with the butter. 
After tlhis, pour the gravy over it and stew the fish uncovered 
in the oven for'j4 hour. 

. Remarks: The pan or dish should not be much larger 
than the fish, so that this is well covered with the gravy. Botlh 
fish and gravy are served on the same hot platter. 

No. 4^BROILED OR ROASTED FISH. 

Any one kind named in No. 1. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
ZVz — '4 lbs. of fish % cup of roll crumbs 

Salt, fiour % lb. of butter 

1 beaten egg 
Preparation: The fish is dressed, washed and dried, then 
ripped lengthwise into two halves and the bones removed. 
Then salt, dredge with flour, dip into beaten egg and roll in 
bread crumlas. Drip melted butter on the fish, place into a 
flat pan and roast or bake in the oven, basting with melted 
butter. Serve with brown butter gravy and garnish with 
lemon slices. 



— 131— 

No. 5— BOILED SALMON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of salmon 2 tbsps. of salt 

3 qts. of water 1 tbsps. of pepper-corns 

% cup of vinegar 10 whole cloves 

1 cup of white wine 3 bay-leaves 

1 large onion, sliced ^ lemon, sliced 

Preparation: All ingredients are put into the water and 
then boiled. The fish is not scaled, but the insides taken out 
and washed. When the water boils, set it aside, put the fish 
in and let it draw J4 — % hours. Cooking would make it 
tough. Serve a butter or madeira gravy witlh the fish. 

Remarks: If the fish is a salmon, it requires 20 minutes 
to cook it. 

No. 6— SALMON, BLUE. 

Quantity for 15 Persons. 
7 lbs. of salmon 1 onion, sliced 

7 qts. of water 1 lemon, sliced 

% bottle of white wine 1 piece of carrot 

1 cup of wine vinegar 1 piece of celery root 

1 tbsp. of pepper-corns 1 piece of parsley root 
6 cloves % lb. of butter 

3 bay-leaves % cup of salt 

Preparation: The salmon is dressed, washed and dried. 
The vinegar is heated and poured on the fish, then it is placed 
into a fish kettle in a swimming position and the water is 
poured on cold, so that it almost covers tihe fish. All the in- 
gredients are added ; bring it to boil and set aside to simmer 1 
hour. The fish must be served carefully and garnished with 
parsley and lemon slices; potato balls are good with it. For 
gravy, serve creamed butter, drawn butter, egg gravy, remou- 
lade gravy or mayonnaise dressing. 

Remarks: Salmon is good served cold with a mayonnaise 
dressing. 

No. 7— SALMON SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of salmon Juice of 1 lemon 
2 hard boiled eggs 1 tbsp. of vinegar 
1 raw yolk of egg 1 tsp. of sugar 
Fine salad oil Salt 

1 tsp. of mustard 1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: The boiled fish is arranged on a glass dish 
in a mound after being cut into nice pieces and the bones re- 
moved. The gravy or dressing is made by stirring the raw 



— 132- 



yolk of egg into the boiled yolks, adding the oil a few drops 
at a time, also the lemon juice, vinegar and the other ingre- 
dients. It must be thick. The dressing is poured over the 
salad and slightly mixed with a wooden spoon. Garnish the 
salad with hard boiled eggs and green lettuce leaves. 



No. 8— SLICED SALMON BROILED. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 % lbs. of salmon 1 tbsp. of finely sliced onion 

Salt 1 bunch of parsley 

Vi cup melted butter Vs lb. of butter for frying 

2 tbsps. of lemon juice 

Preparation: The salmon is cut into 3 to 3 slices, cleaned, 
washed and dried well. Brush the slices with the % cup of 
melted butter, salt and put on the lemon juice, onion slices 
and parsley. Cover the dish and put on the stove for one 
hour but do not fry. After one hour, put into a broiler, broil 
for 10 to 15 minutes, basting with butter and turning frequent- 
ly. You can also fry them in a buttered pan. Serve in a hot 
dish, garnish with lemon slices and parsley and serve with a 
tomato or olive gravy, or a cold, sour gravy. 



No. 9— BOILED SALMON-TROUT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3% lbs. of salmon-trout 10 pepper-corns 

Water enough to cover the fish 2 cloves 
Salt 1 bay-leaf 

% pt. of vinegar % onion, sliced 

Preparation : The fish is cleaned and waslhed. The water 
with all ingredients in it is brought to boil, the fish placed into 
it in a swimming position, cooked 10 minutes and served on 
a hot platter. A fish or egg gravy may be served with it. 



No. 10— FRIED TROUT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 % lbs. of trout 1 beaten egg 

Salt, flour % lb. of butter 

Preparation: The fish is dressed, washed, dried, salted 
inside and outside, dipped into the beaten egg and then into 
flour. The butter is heated in a pan, the fish fried in it to a 
light brown color and a butter gravy served with it. 



—133— 

No. 11— EEL, BLUE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 % lbs. of eel 4 cloves 

1 % qts. of water V2 sliced onion 
6 tbsps. of vinegar % sliced lemon 
10 pepper-corns Salt 

2 bay-leaves Water for cooking 

Preparation: The eel is killed by wrapping the head into 
a cloth and giving it a few blows with a hatdhet ; then rub it 
with salt from head to tail until it looks blue. Skin the eel by 
making a cut in the skin around the head and pulling this 
down over the tail ; if it does not strip off easily, cut it loose 
with a sharp knife. Cut the fish into equal pieces and clean 
each piece separately, pushing out the intestines and inner 
membrane and rubbing it with salt. 

1J4 qts. of water is brought to boil with 4 tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar and the eel scalded with it. Heat fresh water, 2 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, pepper-corns, bay-leaves, cloves, 1 
onion, lemon slices and salt; in this water the eel is cooked 
slowly 15 minutes. Tihe fish is then served on lettuce leaves 
and garnished with lemon slices. Caper, mustard or remou- 
lade dressing is served with it. This fish is good eaten cold. 

Remarks: The remnants of eel may be used to make aspic 
or head cheese. The eel broth and skin are utilized for it. See 
Head Cheese and Gelatines, No. 9 Eel in Jelly. 



No. 12— BAKED EEL. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 % lbs. of eel 1 beaten egg 

Salt Flour for dredging 

1 pinch of pepper % lb. of butter or lard for frying 

Preparation: The eel is prepared as described in No. 11. 
The bones are taken out of the pieces, (these may be 3 to 4 
inches long) salt and pepper, roll in beaten egg and flour and 
bake in hot butter to a nice brown color. 

A Dutch dressing may be served with it. 



No. 13— EEL IN BEER. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3% lbs. of ell Vi lemon, sliced 

3 tbsps. of butter Salt 

2 tbsps. of flour 1 pinch of p-pper 

1 qt. of white beer 1 clove 

% onion, sliced % bay-leaf 

Preparation: The eel is prepared as in No. 11, the bones 



— 134 — 

being removed from the pieces. The 3 tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter are stirred into the flour, the beer added and also all the 
spices and lemon and onion slices. Cook this gravy and 
put in tihe pieces of eel to boil 20 minutes. Serve the eel on 
a hot platter, strain the gravy and pour it over the eel. The 
gravy must be thick and very palatable. 

Remarks: If the gravy is not thick enough, mix some 
more flour with water, stir it in and let it boil. 



No. 14— EEL WITH RICE. (FRICASSEE). 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 % lbs. of eel 1 pt. of cream 

% lb. of butter Salt 

2% tbsps. of flour Juice of 1 lemon 

Preparation': The eel is prepared according to No. 11, cut 
into 4 inch pieces and cooked almost done in boiling water, 
salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, J^ sliced onion, 8 pepper- 
corns, 2 cloves, 1 bay-leaf. When almost done, take out the 
pieces and put them into the gravy, which is prepared in the 
following way: Heat the butter, stir in the flour, add the 
cream and stir well until smooth, add salt and lemon juice and 
let it simmer 10 minutes. Serve eel and dressing on a hot 
platter and place a rim of cooked rice around it. Then strew 
over the whole some fine minced parsley. If you wish you 
may sprinkle chopped parsley over the eel before serving, or 
you may cook the parsley in the dressing. 

Remarks : The gravy must be smooth and savory. 



No. 15— COLD EEL ROULADE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 lbs. of eel 1 tbsp. of chopped capers 

4 hard boiled, chopped eggs Juice of one lemon 

1 tbsp. of chopped parsley Salt, pepper 

% tbsp. of chopped onion 

For Cooking. 

2 qts. of water 1 small piece of carrot 

10 pepper-corns 1 small piece of parsley root 

3 cloves 1 small piece of celery root 
1 bay-leaf Salt 

^/^ onion 

Preparation: The eel is prepared as described in No. 11, 
its head and tail cut off and ripped open lengthwise ; intestines 
and bones carefully taken out ; then cut it in two crosswise, 
to make 4 pieces. These pieces are washed, dried and rubbed 



— 135 — 

with salt. The four hard boiled eggs are chopped and mixed 
well with the chopped parsley, onion, capers, lemoii juice, 
salt and pepper. This stuffing is put inside of the four pieces 
of eel and these rolled up tightly and tied with string, then 
each tied up in a piece of white cloth. Into the 2 qts. of water 
put all the ingredients for cooking, and the head, tail and skin 
chopped up into small pieces and cook 15 minutes. This eel 
stock must be tasted as to seasoning, vinegar added and the 
prepared pieces of eel cooked in it slowly for 45 minutes. 
Leave them in the stock until pretty well cooled off, then take 
them out and place them between two platters. After a few 
hours, take off the strings and cloth and cut them into thin 
slices which are served on green lettuce leaves and garnished 
with hard boiled eggs. You may serve them also with pickles 
and mayonnaise or mustard dressing. 

Remarks : These eel roulades may be made into eel jelly. 
See Chapter Nine, No. 9. 



No. 16— LARDED PICKEREL, 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3% lbs. of fish 1 tbsp. of flour 

% lb. of bacon % pt. sweet or sour cream 

Salt % tsp. of meat extract 

1 pinch of pepper 1 tbsp. of Parmesan cheese 

% lb. of butter Juice of % lemon 

1 tsp. of capers 

Preparation: The fish is dressed, washed, dried and 
rubbed with salt inside and outside. The back is skinned by 
slitting the sides and pulling the skin off. The back is then 
larded with bacon strips. The butter is heated in a pan and 
the fish placed into it in a swimming position after dredging 
with flour and grated Parmesan cheese. The hot butter is 
dripped on, also the lemon juice, and the fish put into the oven 
to bake 15 minutes. During this time baste with the butter 
carefully so the flour and cheese make a crust on the fish. 
Gradually add the cream and capers, and bake the fish in this 
dressing for Yz hour, basting frequently. Serve on a hot plat- 
ter. Color the gravy with the meat extract and if it is too 
tliin, add 1 teaspoonful of flour, mixed with cream or milk, 
cook and strain. The gravy is served with the fish; garnish 
■with potatoes and macaroni arid serve with sauerkraut. 



— 136 — 

No. 17— LARDED AND STUFFED PICKEREL. 
Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
3 Vz lbs. of fish 1 Pt. sour or sweet cream 

% lb. of bacon % tsp. of meat extract 

Salt, pepper 1 tbsp. of Parmesan cheese 

% lb. of butter Juice of % lemon 

1 tbsp. of flour 1 tsp. of capers. 

The Stuffing. 

1 pt. can of champignons % cup of sweet cream 

2 tbsps. of butter Salt, pepper 

1 tbsp. of flour 

Preparation : The preparation is the same as g'iven in No. 
16. The filling or stuffing is made from chopped champignons 
stewed in the butter, flour, salt, pepper and cream. This is 
stuffed into the fish which is then sewed up. The fish is larded 
and cooked according to directions in No. 16. The gravy is also 
prepared as in No. 16. 

No. 18— STUFFED AND LARDED PIKE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The preparation and ingredients are the same as given 
under No. 16 and No. 17 ^ — 

No. 19— FISH FRICASSEE FROM PICKEREL OR 
WHITEFISH. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 pickerel or whiteflsh, 3% lbs. % lb. of butter 
% lb. of bacon for larding 1 cup of cream 

For the Fricassee. 
18 crabs Vs lb. of butter 

2% qts. of salt water 20 champignons 

1% lbs. veal sweetbreads 10 peeled truffles 

Juice of % lemon 2 tbsps. of butter 

Salt, pepper 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

Preparation: The fish is dressed, washed, dried, the skin 
taken off the back and this larded with bacon. Then it is 
sprinkled with salt and put into a pan in a swimming position 
with 1/4 lb. of butter and 1 cup of cream and fried slowly for 
1 hour to a golden yellow color. During this time simmer the 
18 crawfish or crabs in salt water for 45 minutes. They should 
not boil, but simmer. From eight crabs take out the meat 
and leave the other ten whole. 

The veal sweetbreads are scalded, the membrane removed, 
salted and peppered, the lemon juice dripped on, then dredged 
with flour and fried in % lb. of butter to a nice brown color. 
The sweetbreads are cut into nice pieces. The champignons 



— I?? — 

are heated in 1 tablespoonful of butter ; lemon juice, salt, pep- 
per, 3 tablespoonfuls of cream^ are added. The truffles are 
peeled and sliced and stewed with Yz tablespoonful of butter, 
3 tiblespoonfuls of bouillon, 1 pinch of salt. The crab meat 
from the 8 crabs is chopped fine and stirred with 1 tablespoon- 
,ful of butter and V/2. tablespoonfuls of flour ; add a little cream 
and boil. The lemon juice, salt, pepper and 1 yolk of egg are 
stirred in and set to cool. Small dumplings are formed from 
this mixture and fried in hot lard. The batter for the dump- 
lings must be thick; try one first and if it does not hold to- 
gether, add more flour. These small dishes must be prepared 
while the fish is cooking. That which is done must be kept 
hot in hot water. The fish, when done, is served on a hot 
platter in a swimming position, three crabs are placed on tihe 
fish's back, the other seven along its sides. The pieces of 
sweetbread are also arranged neatly around the fish and the 
champignons and truffles, as well as the fish dumplings. All 
must be very hot and kept so until the gravy is done. 

The Gravy: Into the butter in which the sweetbreads 
were fried stir some flour and add bouillon or water, pour it 
into the pan in which the fish was fried and cook for 3 min- 
utes, taste and strain. It must be smooth and be served with 
the fish. 

Remarks: This is a fine dish for parties. Potato balls 
and green lettuce are served with it. 



No. 20— PICKEREL WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
ZVz lbs. of pickerel, white fish Salt 

or cod fish 1 sheet of paper 

% lb. of butter, good measure 

Gravy. 
% lb. of butter 2 tbsps. of Parmesan cheese 

% lb. of ham Salt 

6 tomatoes Pinch of pepper 

3 tbsps. of flour % pt. bouillon 

% pt. of cream 

Preparation: The fislh is dressed, washed, dried, salted, 
placed into a pan and lightly covered with a buttered paper. 
Then the hot butter is poured over it and it is cooked in the 
oven until well done, basting frequently for about one hour. 
In the meantime the gravy is prepared thus : The ham is cut 
into small pieces and fried liglht yellow in the butter, with 
onion slices and flour, then add bouillon and cream, season 



— 138 — 

with salt, pepper and add Parmesan cheese ; also put in the 
sliced or chopped tomatoes and cook until pretty thick. Strain 
the gravy, taste it and heat it again. The fish, which must be 
a nice pink color, is bruslhed with the thick gravy and served 
in a swimming position. The rest of the gravy may be served 

separately. 

No, 21— PICKEREL OR CODFISH SALAD. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 % lbs. of pickerel or codfish 1 tsp. of mustard 

2 tbsps. of butter 2 tbsps. of vinegar 
1 scant tbsp.. of flour 1 tbsp. of salad oil 
1 small onion Salt 

1 pt. thick cream 1 pinch of white pepper 

2 yolks of eggs 1 tbsp. of capers 

Preparation : The boiled fish is cut up into nice pieces. 
The butter is melted, the peeled whole onion fried light yel- 
low in it, then taken out. Stir in the flour, add the cream and 
cook 5 minutes. The Z yolks are stirred in, but the gravy 
must not cook any more, cool it and season with salt, mustard, 
pepper, capers, vinegar and salad oil. Pour the gravy over 

the fish. 

No. 22— BAKED RED SNAPPER. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 V^ lbs. of red snapper Some flour 

Salt 1 cup of rolled crackers 

1 beaten egg % lb. of butter 

Preparation : The fish is dressed, washed, dried and rubbed 
with a little salt. It is then dredged with flour, dipped into 
the beaten egg and cracker crumbs. The butter is heated and 
put on the fish, then baked in the oven for % hour until a nice 
brown. Serve a parsley gravy with it. 

No. 23— PICKEREL OR WHITEFISH WITH 
SAUERKRAUT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. boiled pickerel or whitefish 1 large piece of butter 
1 lb. boiled sauerkraut % pt. of cream 

1 egg Some salt 

Preparation: A baking dish or casserole is buttered and 
filled with layers of sauerkraut and fish alternating. The 
bones must have been removed and the fish cut into nice pieces. 
There should be 3 layers of sauerkraut and 3 layers of fish. 
After the dish is filled, stir the cream with some salt and pour 
over the whole. Put a little butter on top and bake in oven 
for 45 minutes. 



— 139— 

No. 24— BOILED TURBOT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 % lbs. of fish Salt 

% qt. of wine vinegar 
Preparation : The turbot is drawn by making a cut across 
the dark side below the gills, then rub it with salt until all 
slime is gone. After washing it, pour J4 qt. of vinegar on and 
let it stand for Yi hour. Run the knife along the spine on 
the black side and slit the white side in several places to pre- 
vent the skin from bursting while cooking. Fins and tail are 
shortened. Put plenty of salt water into the fish kettle, put 
the fish in, white side up, and cook slowly for 5 minutes, then 
set aside ta simmer for Yi hour. Do not cover up the kettle. 
When serving, the white side should be up and garnish the 
platter with any kind of lettuce or salad i. e., cucumber salad, 
head lettuce or endive. Place lemon slices on the fish or small 
boiled crabs. Serve with a butter gravy or creamed butter 
and potato balls. 

No. 25— TURBOT FRICASSEE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. of fish remnants % pt. of cream or milk 

A small calf's tongue Juice of % lemon 

% pt. of champignons Salt, pepper 

1 tbsp. of capers % pt. of bouillon 

3 tbsps. of butter 2 tbsps. of Parmesan cheese 

2 tbsps. of flour 

Preparation: The fish is cut into large pieces. A baking 
dish is buttered and the pieces of fish placed in. Add 3 table- 
spoonfuls of heated butter, stirred with 3 tablespoonfuls of 
flour, the cream, champignon juice and bouillon. The latter 
may be omitted. Cook the gravy until it is smooth and add 
the lemon juice, salt, pepper, chopped champignons and capers. 

The tongue which has been boiled is skinned and sliced 
and put into the gravy, then boiled a few minutes and tasted 
as to seasoning. Pour this gravy over the fish, strew with 
Parmesan cheese and drip on some butter. Place the baking 
dish into a dish with water and bake in the oven to a nice 
color. 

No. 26— BOILED RED SNAPPER. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 % lbs. of fish 2 bay-leaves 
Salt % onion, sliced 
10 pepper-corns % lemon, sliced 

4 cloves Water 

Preparation: The fish is dressed, washed and put in a 



— 140 — 

swimming position, into water enoug^h to cover it and brought 
to boil. All the ingredients are added and after boiling up 
once, set aside to simmer J4 hour. Garnish with lemon slices 
and parsley. Serve the fish with a butter gravy mixed with 
fine chopped parsley or with an egg dressing. 

No. 27— RED SNAPPER WITH RED WINE DRESSING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The preparation and ingredients are the same as given 

under No. 3. 

No. 28— FRIED SMELT OR SPARLING. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 Vz lbs. of sparling 2 tbsps. of milk 
Salt Flour 

1 egg Vz lb. of butter for frying 

Preparation: The fish is dressed, washed, rubbed with 
salt and left standing for lyi hours. Then the salt is washed 
ofif a little. Beat the egg with the milk, brush the fish with it 
and dip it into the flour. Heat the butter and bake the fislh in 
it in the oven to a nice (brown color. 

When served, pour the drippings over. 

No. 29— FILLET OF SHELLFISH, WHITEFISH. 
CABELJOU, SOLE, WITH DRESSING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3% lbs. of fish Salt, pepper 

Vi, lb. of butter Juice of 1 lemon 

Fish Bouillon. 
Bones, skin 2 slices of lemon 

4 pepper-corns Vz onion 

2 cloves 1% qts. water 
1 bay-leaf Salt 

Preparation: The fish is dressed, washed, the bones all 
removed and cut into equal fillets. These are salted a little 
and left with tihe salt >4 hour. 

During this time prepare the fish bouillon. The bones 
and skin are brought to boil in V/z qts. of water to which the 
pepper-corns, cloves, lemon and onion slices and salt have been 
added and then cooked until the water has boiled dowtr to % 
qt. Then put the fish fillets into a buttered pan, season with 
1 pinch of pepper, lemon juice, the 1/4 lb. of butter placed on 
in pieces and Yz cupful of the fish bouillon poured over them. 

The pan must be covered and the fish stewed in the oven 
for 25 minutes, then served on a hot platter, the drippings 
poured over. A Dutch gravy is served with it and the bouil- 
lon used for that. See gravies or dressings, Dutch Dressing. 



— 141 — 

No. 30— FRIED MACKEREL. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 % lbs. of mackerel 2 tbsps. of milk 

Salt Flour 

1 egg % lb. of butter for frying 

Preparation: The mackerel is cleaned well, the head 
chopped off and the fish split open lengthwise. The hones are 
all taken out, the fillets rubbed with salt and let stand for 1 
hour. Then it is washed a little, dried, dipped into the egg 
beaten with milk and into flour. The butter is heated and the 
fillets are fried in it to a nice color for about 10 to 15 minutes. 
Serve on a hot platter, pour the drippings over and garnish 
with lemon slices and parsley. If the drippings are not suffi- 
cient, make an extra gravy of drawn butter mixed with 
chopped parsley. 

No. 31— ROLLED, STUFFED FISH FILLETS. 

Made from whitefish, pickerel, cabeljou, shellfish, halibut. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 Ids. of fish 1 pinch of salt 

1 V2 rolls, soaked in milk 1 pinch of pepper 

1 tbsp. of chopped parsley 3 eggs 

% tbsp. of choppeu lion % lb. of butter 

For Stew. 
% pt. of white wi % onion 

1 oz. of butter 2 lemon slices 

6 pepper-corns 3 tbsps. of lemon juice 

The Gravy. 

% lb. of butter % pt. of fish gravy 

2 tbsps. of flour 3 yolks of eggs 

Preparation: The fish is dressed, washed, skinned, split 
open lengthwise and the bones taken out, then it is cut into 
pieces 6 inches long and 3 inches wide. The trimmings which 
are left, must be fully 1/4 lb. and are chopped fine. From 3 
eggs make scrambled eggs. Cream the % lb. of butter and 
mix it well with the soaked roll, chopped fish trimming, 1 
tablespoonful of parsley, scrambled egg, onion, salt, pepper. 
Press the whole mixture through a sieve and stir in another 
egg. This stuffing must taste very spicy or piquant and is 
spread evenly on the fish fillets. Then roll each one up and 
tie it with a white string, place them into a roasting pan, add 
yz qt. of water, i/^ pt. of white wine, 6 pepper-corns, 1/4 onion, 
2 slices of lemon, 3 tablespoonfuls of lemon juice and salt. The 
1 ounce of butter is cut into pieces and put on the fish, then 



— 142 — 

cover the pan with a buttered paper and bake in the oven ^4 
hour. Serve on a hot platter. 

The gravy or dressing is prepared by mixing % lb. of 
butter with 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, add the strained broth 
from the fillets, cook and stir in 3 yolks of eggs, strain and 
serve with the fish fillets 

No. 32— BOILED CODFISH. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of codfish 2 onions 

Va lb. of soda Salt 

4 qts. of water 

Preparation: The fish is pounded well, and put into 
water for 36 hours, changing it every 12 hours and adding a 
teaspoonful of soda at every change. After that, skin the fish 
and cut it into pieces, place it into boiling water with the salt, 
and 2 sliced onions, and let it simmer for 45 minutes. Serve 
it with drawn butter or mustard gravy. 



No. 33— CODFISH RAGOUT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
11^ lbs. of boiled codfish 6 pepper-corns 

Vs lb. of butter 2 bay-leaves 

2 tbsps. of flour Salt 

% pt. of bouillon A small cup of herb vinegar 

V2 onion 

Preparation: The remnants of boiled codfish are cut in 
small pieces. The Ys lb. of butter is browned, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour stirred in, add tJhe bouillon and season with vine- 
gar, onion, pepper-corns and bay-leaves. 

The gravy is cooked slowly }i hour, seasoned and strained. 
Add the fish, reheat but do not boil and serve on a hot platter 
with potatoes. 

No. 34— FRIED SOLE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 % lbs. of fish 1 cup grated rolls 
Salt, white pepper Juice of 1 lemon 

1 egg 1 onion, sliced thin 

2 tbsps. of milk % lb. of butter for frying 

Some flour 

Preparation: Skin the fish by running a sharp knife 
around the tail ; loosen the skin from the meat and pull down- 
ward over tihe head. The white side is treated the same way, 
the tail and fins are shortened and the fish cut into convenient 



—143— 

pieces. Every piece is cleaned well, salted and peppered, the 
lemon juice dripped on, the slices of onion placed on top, the 
pot covered up and the fish left in it to simmer 1^ to 2 hours. 
% hour before serving, each piece is dried, dredged with flour 
and dipped into the egg beaten with the milk and salt and then 
into roll crumbs. 

The butter is heated and in it the pieces of fish are fried 
to a nice brown color. Serve it on a hot platter, garnish with 
lemon slices and parsley. The drippings may be used as gravy. 



No. 35— BAKED SOLE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

The ingredients and preparations are the same as in the 
preceding. No. 34. The pieces of fish are put into boiling hot 
lard deep enough so they float, and baked to a golden yellow 
color. 

Serve with a mayonnaise or caviar gravy. See Gravies 
or Dressings. 

Remarks; The pieces of fish may be rolled in finely 
chopped or ground hazel nuts instead of bread crumbs ; this 
is very fine. 

No. 36— BAKED GURNET. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 % lbs. of fish 2 tbsps. of milk 

Salt Juice of 1 lemon 

1 egg % lb. of butter 

Preparation: The fish is cleaned well, dried, cut in halves, 
lengt^hwise, the bones taken out, salted, seasoned with lemon 
juice, dipped into egg beaten with milk and then into flour. 

Heat the butter and fry the fish in the oven for ^ hour, 
basting frequently. Serve a butter dressing with it. 



No. 37— SMALL FISH RAGOUTS IN SHELLS OR 

SMALL MOLDS ; UTILIZING REMNANTS 

OF FISH. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. of boiled fish 1 tbsp. of Parmesan cheese 

1 oz. of butter 3 tbsps. of white wine 

2 tbsps. of flour Salt, white pepper 

% pt. of sweet or sour cream 2 tbsps. of roll crumbs 
Juice of % lemon 1 small piece of butter 

Preparation: The butter is heated, the flour stirred in, 
also the cream, wine and lemon juice and boiled. This gravy 



— 144 — 

should be thick ; if too thick, add more cream or milk, salt, 
pepper and Parmesan cheese, then boil one minute. Cut the 
fish into small pieces and put into the gravy. Butter the shells 
or molds and fill with this mixture, strew the bread crumbs 
on and bake in the oven about 10 minutes, to a light yellow 
color. Serve immediately after taking out of the oven. 

Remiarks: Tlhis dish may be served as a fine side-dish 
together with head lettuce. 

No. 38— FISH CROQUETTES. 

Quantity for G Persons. 
1 lb. of boiled fish Salt 

1 oz. of butter 1 pinch of pepper 

3 tbsps. of flour 2 whites of eggs, beaten with 1 

% pt. of cream tbsp. of milk 

3 yolks of eggs Flour 

1 tbsp. of, lemon juice Lard enough for frying 

Preparation : The fish is cut into small pieces. The but- 
ter is melted, the 3 tablespoonfuls of flour stirred in, then add 
cream and season with lemon juice, salt and pepper. This 
gravy is cooked a few minutes and must be thick, the 3 yolks 
of eggs are stirred in and the fislh added. After this mixture 
has cooled off, small croquettes are formed which are dipped 
into the white of egg and flour or bread crumbs. Heat the 
lard to the boiling point, (it must be deep enough so the cro- 
quettes will float in it) and bake them to a golden yellow color. 

Remarks: Fry one croquette first; if it should not hold 
togetlher, add more flour. 

No. 39— FISH CUTLETS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The preparation and ingredients are the same as under 
No. 38. Form small cutlets, bread them the same as the cro- 
quettes and fry them in butter to a nice color. You may im- 
prove them with champignons or crab tails. 

No. 40— FISH AND POTATO PUDDING. 

Quantity for .6 Persons. 
1% lbs. of boiled fish 2 tbsps. of Parmesan cheese 

3 lbs. potatoes Salt, pepper 

1 pt. of cream or milk 1 tbsp. of capers 

% lb. of butter 1 tbsp. of roll crumbs 

2 tbsps. of flour 

Preparation: The boiled fish is cut up fine, the bones all 
taken out ; the raw potatoes peeled ?nd sliced fine. The bak- 



—145— 

ing-dish or casserole is buttered and a layer of potatoes alter- 
nating with a layer of fish put in so that the last layer will be 
potatoes. 

The gravy is made by heating the butter, stirring in. the 
flfour, adding the cream, salt, pepper, Parmesan cheese and 
capers. Cook one minute, then pour over the layers of fish 
and potatoes. Strew a few bread crumbs on top and place 
the pieces of butter on, then bake slowly V/z hours. Serve 
in the dish with head lettuce. 



No. 41— SALTED CODFISH CROQUETTES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The preparation and ingredients are the same as given 
under No. 38, Fish Croquettes. If the codfish is too salty, 
soak it in water a few hours or simmer in boiling water a few 
minutes. 



No. 42— COiDFISH HASH. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
IVz lbs. of codfish 1 tbsp. of flour 

1 small piece of butter % pt. of cream 

Preparation: The codfish is picked to pieces. If it is too 
salty, soak it a few hours. Heat the' butter, stir in the flour, 
cream and fish and cook for 10 minutes. Toast slices of wheat 
bread and serve the fish hash on this. 



No. 43— FRIED FRESH HERRING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
12 fresh herring % lb. of butter or lard 

Salt 1 cup of flour 

For the Gravy. 

Juice of 1 lemon % lb. butter 

1 tbsp. parsley 

Preparation : The head of the herring must have a yellow 
color, if it looks reddish, the herring is stale. The herring is 
dressed, washed, salted for 45 minutes, then it is dried and 
rolled in flour, that has been mixed with salt and pepper. Heat 
the butter or fat and fry the herring in it to a nice color, turn- 
ing occasionally. For the gravy, brown the butter, add the 
juice of the lemon and finely chopped parsley. 

Serve the herring on a hot platter and pour the gravy 
over it. 



— 146 — 

No. 44^TO MARINATE OR PICKLE FRIED HERRING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
12 fresh herring 1 cup of flour 

Salt % lb. of butter or lard 

For Marinating. 

% qt. vinegar 6 cloves 

% qt. virater 6 bay-leaves 

1 large onion, sliced Some Salt 

20 pepper-corns 

Preparation : The herring are dressed, washed, salted for 
45 minutes ; after that they are dried, then rolled in flour mixed 
with salt and pepper and fried in butter or lard to a nice color. 

For marinating, boil vinegar, water, pepper, cloves, bay- 
leaves, sliced onion and salt and cool it. The fried herring 
are cooled and put into a stone jar and the fluid poured over. 
To be prepared one day before serving.- 



No. 45— MARINATED SALT HERRING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 salt herring 12 pepper-corns 

1 pt. sour or sweet cream or 4 cloves 

milk 2 bay-leaves 

2 sour apples "Vinegar to taste 

1 small onion ' 

Preparation: The salt herring are soaked for one day, 
then dressed and skinned. If you wish, you may cut them in- 
to pieces or leave them whole and put them into a dish. The 
gravy is then prepared. 

The milt and roe, taken out of tihe herring, are well 
cleaned, chopped and beaten with vinegar, cream, grated 
apples and onions, pepper, cloves and bay-leaves. Pour this 
dressing over the herring and let stand for J^ to 1 day. Serve 
the herring in the gravy and potatoes in their jackets. 

Remarks: Sour cream is best to use for marinating salt 
herring. This preparation is very good. 



No. 46— MARINATED SALT HERRING. 
A Simple Way. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 salt herring 12 pepper-corns 

1 pt. wine vinegar 6 cloves 

1 large onion, sliced 2 bay-leaves 

Preparation : The herring are dressed, skinned and soaked 
in water for J4 day, then cut into desirable pieces or left whole. 



— 147 — 

Cook the vinegar with % pt- of water and cool. Put all the 
spices on the herring and pour the cold vinegar over. The 
milt may be put in also. 

No. 47— HERRING SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 salt herring 1 onion 

15 boiled, peeled potatoes 1 tsp. mustard 

3 apples 4 tbsp. of oil 

% lb. cold roast 1 pinch of salt 

% lb. tongue sausage Pepper 

% lb. pickled beets 1 pinch of sugar 

2 salt pickles Vinegar to taste 

2 pepper pickles % pt. bouillon 

3 hard boiled eggs 

Prepciration : The herring are soaked in water for % day, 
then dressed, skinned, the bones taken out, and cut into equal 
parts. Potatoes, apples, roast, sausage, eggs, onion, pickles, 
beets are all cut up, mixed well and seasoned with oil, salt, 
pepper, mustard, sugar and vinegar, then bouillon added. The 
salad is served in a glass dish and garnished with minced white 
of egg, yolk of egg, pickles and beets. You may also garnish 
with sardines cut in halves and rolled. 



No. 48— BOILED LOBSTER. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lobsters, 2% lbs. Salt 

Boiling water 12 pepper-corns 

Preparation: The lobster is cleaned in water with a brush, 
by taking hold of its back with the left hand and using the 
brush with the right. In this way it is harmless. The water 
is brought to boil in the meantime with salt and the 13 pep- 
per-corns, then the lobsters are put in head first, which kills 
them instantly. Boil 5 minutes, then set aside to simmer 45 
minutes. After this time take out the lobsters, dry them and 
put them on a board, break off the claws and tail and split the 
body into halves from head to tail. Arrange these halves up- 
right on a platter, put a bunch of parsley in the top, place let- 
tuce leaves around and garnish neatly with the tails, cracked 
claws and legs. 

Creamed butter or butter balls are served with it, also a 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Remarks: Claws and legs are placed into a cloth and 
carefully cracked so the meat is not crushed. Large lobsters 
may boil 1 hour. 



—148— 

No. 49— COLD LOBSTER. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Preparation and ingredients are the same as in the preced- 
ing, No. 48. When the lobster is done, pour a cupful of cold 
water into the hot water and let the lobster cool in it. Then 
take it out, dry it and press it under a heavy board for one 
hour. When serving, brush it witih oil and prepare it like the 
warm lobster. A mayonnaise dressing is nice with it. 

No. 50— LOBSTER CROQUETTES OR CUTLETS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Utilizing remnants of lobsters. 

The preparation and ingredients are the same as those 
given under No. 38 and 39, Fish Croquettes or Cutlets. 

No. 51— LOBSTER RA.GOUT IN SHELLS OR ON TOAST. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lobsters, 3 lbs. 4 pepper-corns 

Vs lb. of butter 1 clove 

2 tbsps. of flour %, bay-leaf 

Vz pt. bouillon % of an onion 

1 tsp. of meat extract 2 tbsps. of Madeira 

1 pinch of salt % pt. of white wine 

1 pinch of pepper % pt. of champignons 

1 pinch of sugar 3 truffles 

1 tbsp. of lemon juice 1 cup tomatoes 

Preparation: The lobster is prepared as given under No. 
48. After the lobster is cooked, all meat is picked out, reserv- 
ing the coral, which is pulverized. The % lb. of butter is 
browned with the flour, bouillon or water added and the coral 
put in. Meat extract, salt, pepper, sugar, lemon juice, cloves, 
bay-leaf, onion, Madeira, white wine and tomatoes added and 
and smooth. It is strained and must be about % of a pint, 
this is all cooked % hour. This gravy must be very savory 
The champignons are cut into small pieces, the truffles peeled 
and chopped, then add the champignons, truffles and lobster 
to the strained gravy. This mixture is filled into buttered 
shells or small molds and baked in the oven for 5 to 10 min- 
utes. Serve on slices of toast. 

Remarks: This is a fine side-dish. 



No. 52— BAKED LOBSTER. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The preparation and ingredients are the same as given 
under No. 48. When the lobster is cooked and split, hot but- 



—149 — 

ter is dripped on and the lobster baked in it for 10 to 15 
minutes. 

A mayonnaise dressing and chopped pickles are nice with 



It. 



Remarks: It is best to bake the lobster in a gas oven. 



No. 53— BOILED CRAWFISH OR CRABS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
24 crabs 2 tbsps. of caraway 

Sufficient water Salt 

1 large onion, sliced 

The Gravy. 
% lb. of butter 2 tbsps. of chopped parsley 

Preparation: The crabs are cleaned like the lobster. See 
No. 48. The water with caraway seeds, salt and sliced onion 
is boiled and the crabs put in one by one. The water must boil 
constantly, so that the crabs are killed instantly. Boil 3 min- 
utes, then set aside to simmer % to 1 hour. Serve the hot 
crabs on a napkin. For gravy or dressing, take hot butter 
mixed with minced parsley. 



No. 54^CRAB CUTLETS WITH VEGETABLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
36 crabs Salt, pepper 

1 oz. of butter 1 tsp. of lemon juice 

2 yolks of eggs 1 cupful of roll crumbs 

1 egg % lb. of butter for frying 

Preparation: The crabs are prepared and cooked as given 
under No. 53. The meat picked out, 18 claws or legs laid 
aside. The meat is coarsely minced, then mixed well with 
creamed butter, 2 yolks of eggs, lemon juice, salt and pepper 
and small croquettes made from this mixture. Dip in beaten 
egg and roll crumbs. Heat the butter and fry these cro- 
quettes in it on both sides to a nice color. Into each put a 
claw or leg. Arrange the croquettes around asparagus or peas. 

Remarks: A good crab dressing may be prepared from 
the meat of crabs. 



— 150 — 

No. 5&— CRAB RAGOUT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
50 crabs % -wineglassful of white win© 

Vi lb. of butter 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

3 tbsps. of flour 1 pinch of salt and pepper 

1 pt. bouillon 2 yolks of eggs 

Some champignon water % pt. champignons 

Preparation: The crabs or crawfish are cooked the same 
way as given under No. 53, the meat all picked out, also out 
of the tails and cut into small pieces. The coral is pulverized 
and cooked in ^ lb. of butter together with flour browned in 
it. The bouillon, the champignon juice, white wine, lemon 
juice, salt and pepper are added and cooked for 15 minutes in 
a covered pan. This gravy is then strained through a fine 
sieve and t'he crab meat and champignons put in. This mix- 
ture is filled into shells or patties and baked in oven 5 min- 
utes. (See Chapter 3, No. 29, Veal Sweetbread Patties). You 
can also serve this ragout on toast. 



No. 56— OYSTERS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 doz. oysters 1% lemon 

Preparation : The oysters are opened with an oyster knife 
and cleaned with a small knife, then placed neatly on a platter 
covered with a napkin, garnishing with slices of lemon. 



No. 57— OYSTER PATTIES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 % doz. oysters 1 tsp. of lemon juice 

1 tbsp. of butter Salt, pepper 

1 tbsp. of flour Pie crust 

2 tbsps. of cream 

Preparation: The butter is melted, flour, cream, lemon 
juice, salt, pepper and oysters put in, then boiled up once. 
Small patties are made as given under Chapter 3, No. 39, Veal 
Sweet Bread Patties. Fill the patties with the oyster ragout, 
bake in oven a few minutes, then serve at once. This is a fine 
dish. 



No. 58— FRIED OYSTERS OR CLAMS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 doz. oysters 1 cupful of fine roll crumbs 

Salt, pepper % lb. of butter 

Some lemon juice 

Preparation: The prepared oysters are put into a dish, 



-151— 



the lemon juice dripped on and breaded with crumbs, which 
are mixed with salt and pepper. In the meantime brown the 
butter and fry the oysters crisp, turning frequently. Serve 
them with spinage, sauerkraut and fish. 



No. 59— OYSTER OR CLAM SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
50 oysters or clams Salt, white pepper 

Juice of 2 lemons 2 tbsps. of chopped parsley 

4 tbsps. of oil 
Preparation: The oysters or clams are mixed with the 
other ingredients, put into a glass dish and garnished with 
green lettuce leaves. 

No. 60— OYSTER OR CLAM PUDDING WITH RICE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
50 clams 1 pt. white wine 

1 tsp. of salt 
For the Rice. 
% lb. of rice 1 pt. bouillon 

For the Gravy. 

% lb. of butter 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

3 tbsps. of flour 3 yolks of egg 

% pt. cream or milk % .tbsp. of Parmesan cheese 

2 tbsps. chopped champignons 

Preparation: The clams are cleaned in cold water with a 
brush. Change the water several times until it remains clear. 

The white wine and salt are put into a dish and the clams 
put in and shaken over the iire until they open. The inside is 
then taken out, the shells thrown away. The clam liquor is 
used for dressing or gravy. Heat Y^ lb. of butter, stir in the 
flour and add cream, the liquor from the clams, chopped cham- 
pignons and let it boil a few minutes, stirring constantly ; then 
stir in the 3 yolks of eggs and set aside. 

While the clams and dressing are being prepared, the rice 
is cooked with the bouillon to a thick mush. 

A baking dish or casserole is buttered and filled with 
layers of rice alternating with layers of clams, rice for the top 
layer. The prepared gravy or dressing is then poured on, 
cheese strewn over, 1 tablespoonful of hot butter dripped on 
and then baked in the oven for 30 minutes. This dish may 
also be made of freslh oysters. 



— 152 — 

CHAPTER 9. 

Head-Cheese and Gelatines. 



The various preparations of Gelatines, Aspic, Head-Cheese, 
Poultry and Fish Jellies. 



No. 1— HOW TO PREPARE GELATINE. 

4 lbs. of pork sward or skin 7 whites of eggs and the shells 

4 lbs. of pigs' feet 1 qt. of white wine 

6 qts. of water Juice of 3 lemons 

Preparation: The pork sward and pigs' feet are cleaned 
well in cold water, then put in cold water and brought to boil. 
As soon as they begin to boil, pour this water off and cut the 
sward up into small pieces, chop the feet into several pieces 
and put on the stove with 6 qts. of cold water to boil for 7 
hours. The feet may be taken out before this time if you 
wish to use them for a meal. The broth must boil down to 
21^ qts. ; this is strained through a fine sieve, set aside to cool, 
and all fat removed from the top. 

Whites of eggs, wine and lemon juice are thorougihly beaten 
together ; the egg shells are crushed and all this put into the 
broth. Then put the broth over the fire once more and stir 
constantly until it boils. Remove at once, cover up the pot 
and place it in a moderate oven until the liquid is perfectly 
clarified. Put a clean white cloth over a pot and strain the 
broth through it. This must be as clear as water. Put into 
glass jars, seal and set them in a boiler with water at the bot- 
tom, the jars resting on a tray. Cover the kettle and boil for 
1 hour. This gelatine will keep and may be used for sweet 
or sour gelatines. 

Remarks: The pigs' feet may be served with a brown 
sweet-sour gravy. They may be eaten cold if put in vinegar, 
onion slices, salt and pepper-corns for 2 days. 



No. 2— MEAT GELATINE FOR PATIENTS. 

Quantity 1% qts. 

1 lb. of beef Salt 

2 % lbs. veal cartilage % qt. of water 

1 small carrot 

Preparation: The beef and the veal cartilage are washed 
and cut into small pieces, the carrot is scraped, but left whole. 



—153 — 

Then this meat, the carrot and 1 pinch of salt are put into a 
glass jar with % qt. of water, sealed and slowly cooked in a 
boiler witlh water at the bottom, the jar resting on a tray, for 
4 hours. After that, strain the broth, let it get cold and re- 
move the fat, then serve it to the patient in spoonfuls. 
Remarks : Instead of beef, you may use poultry. 



No. 3— GELATINE OR HiEAD-CHEESE FROM 

POULTRY BOUILLON. 

Quantity for 4 — 6 Persons. 

1 young, fried or boiled chicken i^ tsp. of meat extract 

% qt. good beef bouillon 5 layers of % box of white 

2 tbsps. of Madeira or white gelatine 

wine 2 sour picl^les. 

Preparation: The fried chicken is cut into small pieces, 
the pickles are peeled and sliced. The strong beef broth is 
heated and the gelatine dissolved in it with wine, meat ex- 
tract and salt added, then strained and tasted as to seasoning. 
Put 1/4 pt. of the warm fluid into a porcelain dish, skim off all 
fat, let it get cold and put on the sliced pickles and a few 
tablespoonfuls of broth, let it cool, arrange the chicken meat 
on it in the form of scales, pour the rest of the broth on and 
let it get cold and stiff. Then turn it out on a platter and 
garnislh with parsley. Asparagus cut into small pieces may 
also be used in this gelatine. 

Remarks: Instead of chicken you may use veal roast, 
tongue or goose liver from which all hard fried meat and car- 
tilage is removed. • 

No. 4— HEAD-CHEESE FROM PIGS' FEET AND 
CALF'S TONGUE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 pigs' feet 1 small onion 

2 calves' tongues % bay-leaf 

Juice of % lemon % tsp. of meat extract 

% pt. of white wine 1 sour pickle, cut into small 

3 tbsps. of vinegar pieces 
Some salt 2 qts. of water 

4 pepper-corns 

Preparation: Pigs' feet and calves' tongues are cleaned 
well, put on to boil with the water, salt, pepper, onion, bay- 
leaf. Cover the pot and boil until well done, then take the skin 
off the tongue and cut it with the rest of the meat into small 
pieces. 



— 15-4 — 



Strain the bouillon and add vinegar, lemon juice, wine and 
meat extract. Put the meat into a dish, pour the bouillon on 
and set to cool. Then turn it out on a platter and serve with 
head lettuce or potato salad, vinegar and oil, mayonnaise dress- 
ing or with fried potatoes. 



No. 5— HEAD-CHiEESE FROM OX-TONGUE. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
1 pickled ox-tongue % pt. sliced champignons 

Yz qt. strong beef bouillon % pt. white wine 

4 pieces of white gelatine Some champignon water 

1 tbsp. of capers % tsp. of meat extract 

4 sliced pickles Some vinegar 

Preparation : The tongue is cleaned and put on to boil in 
cold water until tender. It is then skinned and sliced, % pt- 
of vinegar poured on and left for a few hours. The bouillon 
is seasoned with salt, wine, champignon juice, lemon juice, 
some vinegar and the 4 pieces of gelatine are dissolved in the 
bouillon. The tongue, champignon and pickle slices and 
capers are put into a porcelain dish, the bouillon poured on 
and cooled; then turned out on a platter and served. 



No. 6— HEAD-CHEESE FROM GOOSE OR DUCK. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 goose, 8 to 10 lbs. 6 calves' feet 

For Cooking. 
6 qts. of water 1 large sliced onion 

Salt Some soupgreens 

6 pepper-corns 1 tsp. of meat extract 

2 cloves % cup of good vinegar 

1 bay-leaf 4 whites of eggs and shells 

Preparation: The goose and calves' feet are cleaned and 
well jointed, then put to boil in cold water with all the other 
ingredients. When the goose is tender, take it out of the 
broth, remove all spices that may adhere to it, place it into a 
porcelain or stone jar. Let the calves' feet cook until boiled 
down to 3 qts., remove all fat and season with vinegar, meat 
extract and salt if necessary. Put in the crushed egg s^hells, 
beat the white of egg with water and add it to the bouillon, 
let it come to boil and then set aside to simmer until the white 
of tgg curdles. After one hour, strain the bouillon and pour 
it through a wlhite cloth over the goose meat. 

Remarks : If you wish to prepare the head-cheese quick- 
ly, omit the calves' feet and use 35 pieces of gelatine dissolved 



-155- 



in 3 qts. of bouillon, which is also clarified with white of eg'g 
and egg shells. 

Remarks: The meat pf the calves' feet may be breaded 
in roll crumbs, fried in butter and served with a raisin gravy. 
If you wish to make this head-cheese from duck, take 2 ducks. 



No. 7— HEAD-CHEESE FROM PARTRIDGE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 partridges 2 tbsps. of lemon juice 

2 qts. of water 4 tbsps. of Madeira or good 
Salt white wine 

4 pepper-corns 2 whites of eggs and egg shells 
% onion 15 pieces of gelatine or 

2 cloves 1/20 of a lb. 

1 bay-leaf ^, tsp. of meat extract 

Preparation: The partridges are cleaned and dressed and 
put to boil in cold water with the spices. When it is done, 
carve it and put it into a porcelain dish. Let the bouillon boil 
down to 1^4 qts., season with wlhite wine or Madeira, lemon 
juice and meat extract and remove all fat, then dissolve the 
gelatine in it. Stir the whites of eggs with some bouillon and 
add it with the egg shells, then boil for a few minutes and set 
aside to simmer until the bouillon is clear. Strain it .through 
a sieve and a clotlh and pour it on to the meat to cool. Turn 
it out on a platter and garnish with lettuce and lemon slices. 



No. 8— FISH IN JELLY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2% lbs. of flsh 2 lemon slices 

2 % qts. of water 2 tbsps. of vinegar 

Salt 4 tbsps. of lemon juice 

4 pepper-corns % pt. of white wine 

2 cloves 10 pieces of white gelatine 

1 bay-leaf 

Preparation: Put the water on with all the other ingre- 
dients and boil, then put in the fish after being dressed and 
cleaned and let it simmer gently for i^ hour. Take out the 
fish, remove the bones and cut it up into large pieces. The 
fish stock is boiled down to 1^ qts. and the gelatine dissolved 
in it, then boiled for one hour, strained and poured on the fish 
to cool. Serve it on a glass platter garnished with head lettuce. 



— 156 — 

No. 9— EEL IN JELLY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of eel 1 sliced onion 

1 V2 qts. of -water Some soupgreens 

% qt. of wine vinegar % lemon, sliced 

10 pepper-corns 12 layers of white gelatine 

3 cloves % tsp. of meat extract 

Salt 2 hard boiled eggs 

2 bay-leaves White of 1 egg 

Preparation : The eel is skinned, cut in pieces and the in- 
testines taken out. The 1J4 qts. of water are brougfht to boil 
with vinegar, pepper-corns, salt, bay-leaf, onions, lemon slices 
and soupgreens; add the eel and simmer gently for 15 min- 
utes. Take out the pieces of eel and boil the broth down to 
1 qt.. Into this put the crushed egg shells, the white of egg 
mixed with some broth, %^ teaspoonful of meat extract and the 
gelatine and cook for a minute, then set aside. When the 
bouillon is clear, strain it through a fine cloth. Slice the two 
hard boiled eggs and cover the bottom of a porcelain dish 
with t!hem, then pour on some jelly and fish bouillon and let 
it get cold. After that put the eel pieces on and the rest of 
the sliced egg, then pour the rest of the stock over and let it 
get cold. When it is stifif, turn it out on a plate and garnish 
with head lettuce. It is best to prepare this dislh the day be- 
fore using it. 



No. 10— SALMON IN JELLY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2% lbs. of salmon 12 pepper-corns 

1% qts. of water 5 cloves 

V2 cup of wine vinegar 2 bay-leaves 

1 cup of white wine 10 pieces of gelatine 

% sliced onion 2 whites of eggs and shells 

% sliced lemon 10 crab tails if you like 

Salt 

Preparation: Into the water put the wine vinegar, the 
wine, salt, pepper-corns, bay-leaves, cloves, onion slices, lemon 
slices and let it come to boil. Clean the fish well and put it 
into this water to simmer gently for Yz to % hour. After this 
take the fish out, remove the bones, cut in pieces and boil down 
the stock to 1 qt. Beat the whites of 2 eggs with some of the 
broth and add it, also the crushed shells and 10 pieces or layers 
of gelatine. Let this mass cook a second and set aside to 
clarify, then strain tlhrough a fine cloth. 



-157- 



Place the pieces of fish and crab tails into a porcelain dish, 
pour the fish stock on and put it on ice to cool quickly. Then 
turn it out on a glass platter and garnish with head lettuce 
and lemon slices. Serve with a mayonnaise dressing. 



No. 11— OYSTERS AND CAVIAR IN JELLY. 

Quantity (of 6 Persons. 
1 qt. strong beef bouillon 12 layers of gelatine 

3 tbsps. of white wine 4 doz. oysters 

1 tsp. of lemon juice % lb. of caviar, ice 

2 whites of eggs and shells 

Preparation: The beef bouillon must be clear and free 
from fat; season it with white wine and lemon juice, and dis- 
solve the gelatine in it. Stir the white of egg with some bcTuil- 
lon and add it, put in the crushed egg shells to cook for a sec- 
ond, then set aside to clarify. Strain it through a fine cloth. 
Fresh oysters are opened, cleaned and cut out of the shells. 
A dish is set on chopped ice, some oysters are placed in a 
circle into the dish and sufficient cold bouillon put on to cover ; 
then let them get stiff. Repeat this until all oysters have been 
used. Put the rest of the bouillon on top and let it get stiff. 

The caviar is poured into a sieve, let very cold water run 
over it until it becomes granular. In the center of the oyster 
jelly cut out a round hole, large enough to hold the quantity of 
caviar at hand. Heat the oyster jelly that has been cut out and 
pour it over the caviar. When it is perfectly stiff, turn it out on 
a platter and garnish with lemon slices and lettuce leaves. 
Serve with a cold mustard dressing. 



No. 12— GOOSE-LIVER IN JELLY. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
1 % lbs. of fat goose liver % tsp. of meat extract 

% lb. of truffles 3 tbsps. of Madeira 

ii lb. of champignons 10 pieces of white gelatine 

% qt. very strong beef or 1 white of egg and shell for 

chicken broth clearing 

Preparation: Remove all fat from the broth. Dissolve 
the gelatine in it, color with the meat extract and season with 
Madeira. Add to it the white of egg beaten into some of the 
broth, and the crushed shell, cook a second and set aside to 
clarify, then strain througlh a fine cloth. 



— 158 — 

Skin the goose liver and cut it into 1J4 inch slices, also the 
truffles and lard the liver slices with the truffles, then stew- 
slowly in a little butter. When done, place them on blotting 
paper to drain off the fat. The champignons are cooked in 
bouillon for 10 minutes. 

Into a dish set in crushed ice put part of the bouillon, let 
it get stiff and put in half of the goose liver, also half of the 
champignons. Some more bouillon is poured over this and 
cooled; then repeat this same process until all goose liver, 
champignons and broth have been used. Let it get stiff, turn 
it out on a platter and serve with a cold mustard dressing and 
potato salad. 




— 159— 

CHAPTER 10. 
DRESSINGS or GRAVIES. 



DRESSINGS FOR MEAT, POULTRY, GAME AND FISH. 
SAUOES FOR PASTRY AND SWEET DISHES. 



Flour Gravies. 

■Good butter and good flour are the essentials for a gravy 
and constitute the main part of it. For the preparation of 
white gravies, earthen, pewter or enameled dishes are the 
best. Gravies must always be smooth and it is best to strain 
them through a fine sieve. If you have them ready before the 
meal, put them into a double boiler. They must neither be 
too thick nor too thin. 

No. 1— WHITE GRAVY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 oz. butter % pt. of bouillon 

% small onion 1 pinch of salt and pepper 

2 tbsps. of flour 2 yolks of eggs 

Preparation: Melt the butter, add the peeled onion and 
steep a little while, then stir in tihe flour and bouillon and cook 
10 minutes, season with salt and pepper. Beat the 2 yolks of 
eggs with a little water and slowly stir it into the gravy. Do 
not boil any more. 

No. 2— DUTCH GRAVY. 
For Fish, Chicken or Veal With Rice. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 oz. of butter 1 V2 tsps. of lemon juice, for fish 

2 tbsps. of flour 2 tbsps. white wine, for chicken 
% pt. of fish stock, chicken or Salt 

veal broth 2 yolks of eggs 

% cup of cream 

Preparation : Melt the butter, stir in the flour, stew a few 
minutes, fill up with fish stock, stirring constantly, then season 
with salt and lemon juice and add the 2 yolks of eggs as given 
under No. 1. 

Remarks: If the gravy is for chicken or veal with rice, 
season it, with white wine. 



— 160 — 

No. 3— FINE DUTCH GRAVY FOR FISH OR VEAL. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 oz. of butter 1 tbsp. of capers 

2 tbsps. of flour 3 sardines 
% pt. fish stock or bouillon Salt 

% cup sour cream 1 pinch of white pepper 

1 tbsp. of lemon juice 2 yolks of eggs 

Preparation : Melt ,the butter, stir in the flour, simmer 
gently, fill up with fish stock, or bouillon if it is intended for 
veal. Cook, stirring constantly, add sour cream, lemon juice, 
salt and pepper. 

The sardines are cleaned, chopped and put into the gravy 
with the capers. Cook slowly for ten minutes, stirring fre- 
quently, then strain through a fine sieve, heat it again and add 
the 3 yolks of eggs. 



No. 4^WHIPPED DUTCH GRAVY. 
For Fish, Asparagus, Cauliflower, Oyster Plants 
and Scorzonera. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% pt. of flsh stock for fish, or 1 oz. of butter 
V2 pt. of vegetable broth for 3 — 4 yolks of eggs 

vegetables Salt, pepper 

1% tbsps. of fiour 

Preparation: The flour is mixed well with fish stock or 
vegetable broth and whipped wlhile over the fire, until it thick- 
ens; then add the fresh butter and the yolks of eggs, which 
have been beaten with water. Let it boil, stirring constantly. 
Serve at once. 

Remarks: The gravy may be seasoned with 1 teaspoon- 
ful of lemon juice. 



No. 5— GOOD FISH GRAVY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 oz. of butter Juice of % lemon 

2 tbsps. of flour Salt 

1/3 pt. of fish stock 2 — 3 yolks of eggs 

% cup oif cream 

Preparation: Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the 
fish stock and cream and cook a little while, stirring constant- 
ly, then season with lemon juice and salt if necessary. Finally 
stir in the yolks of eggs. 



— 161 — 

No. 6— CAULIFLOWER GRAVY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 oz. of butter Salt to taste 

2 tbsps. of flour 2 yolks of eggs 
% pt. of cauliflower broth Nutmeg to taste 

Preparation: Melt the butter, stir in the flour, gradually 
pour in the cauliflower broth and boil, stirring constantly. 
Then season with salt and nutmeg and stir in the 3 yolks of 
eggs. 

No. 7— ASPARAGUS GRAVY. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
% lb. of butter % cup of cream 

1 tbsp. of flour 1/3 pt. of asparagus broth 

4 — 6 y&lks of eggs Salt to taste 

Preparation: Cream tihe butter, add the yolks of eggs, 
flour and cream ; then add the boiling asparagus broth, while 
stirring. Let it boil, stirring constantly. Serve at once or 
keep warm in water. It is very fine. 



No. 8— FINE MUSTARD GRAVY. 
For Beef and Fish. 
Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
% lb. of butter 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

3 yolks of eggs 1' slice of lemon 

2 tbsps. of mustard 1 pinch of sugar 

1 tbsp. of flour 1 pinch of salt 

% pt. bouillon 

Preparation: Cream the butter, add the yolks of eggs, 
mustard, flour, and gradually pour in the bouillon, stirring 
constantly, then cook. Season it with lemon juice, sugar and 
salt if necessary. Put in the lemon slice which s^hould be 
taken out when served. 

No. 9— PLAIN MUSTARD DRESSING. 

For Fish and Beef. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 

1/10 lb. of butter 1 tbsp. of vinegar 

1% tbsps. of flour 1 pinch of salt 

2 tbsps. of mustard Sugar, pepper 

% pt. of bouillon 

Preparation: Brown the butter and flour, add the bouil- 
lon, cook and season with pepper, salt, sugar and vinegar. 

VI 



—162^- 

No. 10— FINE BEARNAISE SAUCE. 
For Fillets, Saddle of Mutton, Mutton Cutlets. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 leek % cup of bouillon 

3 tbsp. of vinegar Vz tsp. of meat extract 

% lb. of butter 1% tsps. of chopped parsley 

4 yolks of eggs Salt, pepper 

Preparation: The leek is cut into small pieces, vinegar 
added, then boiled down to one-half of the portion and strained 
.through a fine sieve. Cream the butter, stir in the yolks of 
eggs, the leek vinegar, meat extract and bouillon. Place into 
a double boiler and let it thicken, stirring constantly ; season 
with salt, pepper and finely chopped parsley. It must be 
smooth. Serve at once. 



No. 11— TOMATO GRAVY. 
For Fillet, Saddle of Mutton and Mutton Cutlets. 
Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
1 leek Vi cup of bouillon 

3 tbsps. of vinegar % cup of tomato pulp 

% lb. of butter 1 tsp. of sugar 

3 yolks of eggs Salt, pepper , 

% tsp. of flour 

Preparation: The leek is cut into small pieces and boiled 
down in vinegar to half of the. portion. Cream the butter, add 
yolks of eggs, tomatoes, flour, bouillon and the strained leek 
vinegar. Put into a double boiler and let it thicken, stirring 
constantly. Season with sugar, salt and pepper and serve at 
once. 



No. 12— FINE TOMATO DRESSING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 oz. of butter 1 pt. bouillon 

1 % tbsps. of flour Salt to taste 

1 lb. or % qt. can of tomatoes 1 pinch of sugar and pepper 
% lb. raw ham % tbsp. of lemon juice 

% onion 2 yolks of eggs 

Preparation: Ham and onion are cut into fine pieces and 
fried brown in butter. The chopped tomatoes are added and 
cooked a little while ; then stir in the flour and add the bouil- 
lon. Season it with salt, pepper, lemon juice and sugar. Cook 
the gravy slowly for 1 hour, strain through a fine sieve and 
stir in the 2 yolks of eggs. 



— 163 — 

No. 13— FINE GRAVY. 
For Poultry, Meat and Fish. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of butter 1/3 pt. cream or milk 

% lb. of raw ham ^ cup of ground poultry, flsh 

1 small onion or meat 

1 % tbsps. of flour Salt, pepper 

1/3 pt. bouillon 1 tsp. of lemon juice 

Preparation: The lean ham is cut into small cubes and 
fried in the butter. Add the sliced onion, stir in the flour and 
stew a little while, add the bouillon and cream. Now the gravy 
is cooked for 15 minutes and the i/4 cupful of ground fish add- 
ed. When served with meats, add meat instead of fish. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper and lemon juice. Let it boil a while and 
strain through a fine sieve. 

No. 14^HORSE RADISH GRAVY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% cup of horse radish % cup of cream or bouillon 

1% tsps. of flour 1 pinch of salt 

1 tbsp. of butter 1 tsp. of sugar 

Preparation: The horse radish must be scraped and 
grated very quickly, flour and butter stirred in and the cream 
added. Let it boil 15 to 20 minutes, stirring constantly, and 
season with salt and sugar. 

No. 15— HORSiE RADISH DRESSING, RAW. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% cup of horse radish 1 pinch of salt 

3 tbsps. of vinegar 1 tsp. of sugar 

Prepjiration : The prepared horse radish is mixed with 
vinegar, salt and sugar and served that way. 



No. 16— SARDINE GRAVY. 
For Fish and Meat. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of butter Juice of '^ lemon 

2 tbsps. of flour 4 — 6 sardines 

% pt. of strong bouillon or Salt 

fish stock 1 pinch of pepper 

% pt. of white wine 2 yolks of eggs 

Preparation: The sardines are soaked in water for J^ 
hour, then chopped fine and rubbed through a sieve. Melt the 
butter, stir in tihe flour and stew a while, then add the bouil^ 



— 164 — 

Ion, or fish stock if used for fish. Add wine and lemon juice 
and the sardines, cook it slowly for 15 minutes and season with 
salt and pepper; then stir in the yolks of eggs, but do not boil 

it any longer. 

No. 17— CAPER SAUCE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1/10 lb. of butter 2 tbsps. of capers 

V4, of an onion 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

1 Vz tbsps. of flour Salt 

% pt. of bouillon (or fish stock, 1 pinch of pepper 

for fish) 2 yolks of eggs 

Preparation: Melt the butter, add the sliced onion and 
stew a while, then stir in the flour and add the bouillon, sea- 
son with salt, pepper, lemon juice, and boil 15 minutes, stirring 
constantly. Strain through a fine sieve. Put in the capers and 
let it simmer gently. Stir in the yolks of eggs and a pinch of 
sugar. 

No. IS^OYSTER DRESSING. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
18 oysters 1 sardine or 

1/10 lb. of butter 1 tbsp. sardine butter 

1 % tbsps. of flour 1 pinch of salt 

1 pt. strong bouillon Pepper 

% cup of cream 

Preparation: Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the 
bouillon, and oyster liquor. If the oysters are fresh, you may 
use some of the beards. Cook the gravy slowly for yi hour, 
then strain through a fine sieve and season witih salt and pep- 
per. Put in the sardine butter or finely chopped sardines. The 
oysters are put into boiling water for % minute, then placed 
into a colander to drain. Put into the hot gravy and serve at 
once. 

No. 19— CRAB OR LOBSTER GRAVY. - 
For Fish, Chicken and Fricassee, 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
18 crabs Salt 

2 qts. salt water 1 pinch of pepper 
1/10 lb. of butter Sugar 

2 tbsps. of flour 2 tbsps. of cream 

% pt. of rich bouillon 
Preparation: The crabs are brushed well in cold water, 
tlhen cooked very red in 2 qts. of boiling salt water. The claws 
and tails are broken ofif and the meat picked out and cut up. 
Remove the gravy substance from the bodies and crush the 
coral in a mortar. 



— 165 — 

Heat the butter and put in the crushed coral, stir while 
stewing, add the 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, stew a while and 
add the bouillon, cook it slowly until it is smooth, then strain 
through a sieve and season with salt and pepper. Stir in the 

2 tablespoonfuls of cream, let the gravy get very hot and put 
in the meat from the tails and claws. It must not boil any 
more. 

Lobster gravy is prepared the same way. Instead of 
crabs or crab butter, take lobsters or lobster butter. 

Remarks: A left-over body of a lobster may be utilized 

for a gravy. 

No. 20— RBMOULADE SAUCE. 
Quantity lor 6 Persons. 

3 tbsps. of fine oil 1 % tbsps. of lemon juice 
1% tbsps. of flour 1 tsp. of mustard 

% pt. of bouillon Salt 

2 hard boiled yolks of eggs 1 pinch of pepper 

1 raw yolk of egg Vz tsp. of sugar 

Preparation: Stew the oil and flour a little while, add the 
bouillon, cook, strain and stir until cold. Stir the hard boiled 
yolks of eggs together with the raw yolk, lemon juice, mus- 
tard and gradually stir in the oil mixture. Season with salt, 
pepper and sugar. It is served with beef, eggs and head- 
cheese. 

No. 21— WHITE FRICASSEE SAUCE. 

For Chicken Fricassee or Veal Fricassee. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 small piece of butter 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

2 tbsps. of flour Salt 

1 pt. bouillon 1 pinch of pepper 

V2 wineglass of white wine 
Preparation: Melt the butter and stir in the flour, add the 
bouillon, stir and boil 5 minutes, add white wine, lemon juice, 
salt, pepper and set to simmer gently. 

No. 22— ONION GRAVY. 

For Boiled Beef. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 small piece of butter Salt 

1 medium sized onion 1 pinch of pepper 

1 tbsp. of flour 1 tbsp. of vinegar 

Vz pt. bouillon 
Preparation: Brown the butter with the sliced onion, stir 
in the flour, add the bouillon and season with salt, vinegar 
and pepper. Cook the gravy 10 minutes and strain through 
a fine sieve. 



— 166 — 

No. 23— PEARL ONION GRAVY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 small piece of butter 1 % tbsps. of vinegar 

% tbsp. of sliced onion Salt 

1 % tbsp. of flour 1 pinch of pepper 

% pt. of bouillon 2 yolks of eggs 

2 tbsps. of small pearl onions 

Preparation: Prepare the gravy just like onion gravy, 
No. 22. After the gravy has been strained, put in the pearl 
onions, cook for 1 minute and stir in the yolks of eggs, but do 
not cook any longer. 

No. 24^PICKLE GRAVY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 piece of butter % tsp. of meat extract 

2 tbsps. of sliced onion Salt, pepper 

1% tbsps. of flour % tbsp. of vinegar 

% pt. of bouillon 1 tsp. of sugar 

2 small chopped pickles 

Preparation: Brown the butter, stir in the onion and 
flour, cook a minute, and add the bouillon. Add the meat ex- 
tract and cook 15 minutes, then strain and season with salt, 
pepper, vinegar, sugar. Put in the finely chopped pickles and 
set to simmer. You can improve this gravy with pieces of 
cauliflower and small pearl onions. Serve with mutton roast 
or lamb. 

No. 25— BURGUNDY OR MADEIRA SAUCE. 

For Ham, Fish or Tongue. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1/10 lb. of butter 1 clove 

2 tbsps. of flour 1 bay-leaf 

% pt. of bouillon 1 lemon slice 

1 cup of Burgundy, red wine 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

or Madeira 1 tsp. sugar 

Salt % tsp. meat extract 
6 pepper-corns 

Preparation : Brown the butter and flour, add the bouillon 
and all the other ingredients. 

Cook this gravy for 1 hour slowly, stirring frequently, 
then strain through a fine sieve, add a few tablespoonfuls of 
wine, season and serve hot. It must be a nice brown color 
and smooth. 



— 167 — 

No. 26— BACON GRAVY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of bacon 6 pepper-corns 

2 tbsps. of flour 1 clove 

% pt. bouillon 1 bay-leaf 

% onion 2 tbsps. of vinegar 

Salt Sugar 

Preparation: Cut the bacon into small cubes and fry to 
a nice yellow color, add the finely sliced onion and fry a little 
while, add the flour and bouillon and §eason with salt, pepper, 
cloves, bay-leaf, vinegar and sugar. Cook for 15 minutes and 
serve with potatoes in their jackets. 



No. 27— HERB GRAVY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 tbsps. of minced herbs 2 tbsps. of flour 

1 tbsp. of minced parsley 1% pts. of bouillon 

1 tsp. of minced onions Vz tsp. meat extract 

1 spray of thyme 1 tsp. lemon juice 

6 pepper-corns Salt to taste 

2 tbsps. of butter 

Preparation : Parsley, onion, thyme, pepper-corns are fried 
in butter, the flour stirred in and browned ; add the bouillon 
and meat extract and boil down to yi the quantity, strain 
through a fine sieve, heat again and put in the Iherbs. Season 
with lemon juice and salt and stir in a small piece of butter. 



No. 28— BROWN CHAMPIGNON SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1/12 lb. of butter % cup of red wine or 

2 tbsps. of flour 4 tbsps. of Madeira 

1 tsp. of sliced onion 1 tbsp. lemon juice 

1 pt. of bouillon Salt to taste 

1 tsp. of meat extract 1 pinch of sugar 

% cup champignon liquor Vz Pt. of champignons 

Preparation: Brown the butter, stir in flour and onion 
and cook 1 minute, add the bouillon and champignon liquor, 
season with meat extract, red wine or Madeira, lemon juice 
and cook for yi hour. Strain the gravy, add the champignons, 
wlhich may be quartered if they are too large, set aside to sim- 
mer gently. Now flavor with salL sngaj; and lemon juice. 



— 168 — 

No. 29— TRUFFLE SAUCE. 

Quantity tor 6 Persons. 
1/12 lb. of butter 2 cloves 

3 tbsps. of flour 1 bay-leaf 

1 tsp. of chopped onion 1 pinch of sugar 

1 pt. bouillon or beef gravy Salt to taste 

1 cup red wine 1 small can of truffles 

% cup Madeira % tsp. meat extract 

6 pepper-corns 

Preparation : Butter and onion are browned, flour stirred 
in and bouillon added, together with red wine, Madeira, pep- 
per, meat extract, cloves, bay-leaf and put in the peeling^s of 
truffles, cook slowly for 1 hour, strain through a fine sieve. 
Chop the peeled truffles and add them, season with salt and a 
little sugar. 

No. 30— MOREL SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. of fresh morels or 1 pinch of pepper 

% can of morels % pt. morel liquor 

1 pt. of bouillon % tsp. meat extract 

2 tbsps. of butter Vs lb. raw, lean ham 
2% tbsps. of flour 1 tsp. minced parsley 
1 tsp. onion 1 tsp. of butter 

Salt 

Preparation: The fresh morels are cleaned, washed in 
lukewarm water and put on the fire with lukewarm water, 
stirring carefully while heating the water. Then they are 
poured into a colander. This process is repeated until there 
is no more sand on the morels. The last water is put aside. 
After a wlhile pour it off carefully from the settlings and boil 
down to yi pt. The ham and onion are cut into small dice, 
fried brown in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, the flour stirred in 
and browned 1 minute, then add the bouillon and morel liquor 
and cook slowly for 45 minutes. Add the meat extract, pep- 
per, salt and strain it. Cut up the morels, put them into the 
gravy, let it come to boil again, add parsley and serve very 
hot. 

No. 31— PARSLEY GRAVY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1/12 lb. of butter 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

1 tbsp. chopped onion 1 pinch of pepper 

2 % tbsps. of flour Salt 

1 pt. bouillon 4 tbsps. of finely chopped parsley 

Preparation: The finely chopped onions and flour are 
browned in butter, bouillon added and cooked 10 minutes, stir- 



—169 — 
ring constantly. Season with salt, pepper and lemon juice, 
add tihe chopped parsley, but do not cook any longer. 

Remarks : 14 cup of sweet cream will improve the gravy. 



No. 32— DILL, CHIVE OR TARRAGON GRAVY, 

These gravies are prepared like the parsley gravy, the in- 
gredients are the same also, but instead of parsley take dill 
for dill gravy, chives for chive gravy, and tarragon for tarra- 
gon gravy. These gravies are good with fish, chicken, beef 
and asparagus. 



No. 33— SORREL GRAVY, 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1/12 lb. of butter 2 yolks of eggs 

2 % tbsps. of flour % tsp. of sugar 

1 pt. bouillon 1 pinch of pepper 

% cupful of sweet cream Salt to taste 

I % cup of sorrel puree 

Preparation: Melt the butter, stir in the flour, gradually 
add tIhe bouillon and cream, stirring constantly, cook a few 
minutes and add the sorrel. Strain and season with salt, pep- 
per and sugar. Stir in the yolks of eggs and serve very hot. 

Remarks : The sorrel is cleaned and treated like spinage 
and boiled the same way, then rubbed through a sieve. 



Cold Dressings. 
No. 34— OIL DRESSING A LA TARTARE. 

For Hard Boiled Eggs, Cold Beef and Head-Cheese. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% cup of fine salad oil 1 % tbsps. of minced herbs or 

1 tbsp. finely sliced onion minced mixed pickles 

2 tbsps. of flour 1 pinch of pepper 
% pt. of bouillon Salt to taste 

Juice of % lemon 
Preparation: Oil, onion and flour are fried light brown, 
bouillon and lemon juice added, cook a little while, then strain 
and stir until cold. Add the herbs or pickles and season with 
salt, pepper and more lemon juice, if necessary. If the gravy 
is too thick, when cold, add more bouillon. 



— 170 — 

No. 35 — COLD MUSTARD DRESSING. 
For Cold Lamb or Veal Roast. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 hard boiled yolks of eggs 1 pinch of pepper 

1 raw yolk of egg Sugar 

% cup of fine salad oil 1 tbsp. of cream 

Juice of % lemon 1 tbsp. of mustard 

Salt to taste 

Preparation : Hard boiled and raw yolks of egfgs are well 
stirred together, the oil added in drops, season with mustard, 
lemon juice, salt, pepper and sugar. If the dressing is too 
thick, thin it with 1 tablespoonful of cream. This dressing is 
very good with cold roast. 



No. 36— TARTARE, DRESSING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 tbsps. of oil Salt to taste 

2 tbsps. of flour 1 pinch of pepper 

1 tbsp. of finely chopped onions 2 yolks of eggs 
% pt. strong bouillon 2 tbsps. of chopped mixed pickleg 

1 tsp. mustard 1 tbsp. of chopped capers 

3 thsps. lemon juice or vinegar 

Preparation : Oil, onion, flour are fried light brown, bouil- 
lon added, seasoned with mustard, lemon juice, salt and pep- 
per and cooked slowly for 15 miniites, then strained through 
a fine sieve. Stir until cold, then stir in the 2 yolks of eggs 
and the pickles and capers. Taste it again. It should be quite 
thick. 



No. 37— COLD HERB DRESSING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 hard boiled eggs 1 mustardspoonful of mustard 

1 raw yolk of egg 1 tsp. of lemon juice or vinegar 

V2 cup of fine salad oil Salt to taste 

1% tbsps. of minced herbs 1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: The 2 hard boiled and 1 raw yolk of eggs 
are thoroughly beaten together, the oil added a few drops at 
a time, the herbs and mustard put in and then seasoned with 
salt and pepper and the finely chopped white of egg put in also. 



— 171— 

No. 38— COLD REMOULADE DRESSING. 
Very fine. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 hard boiled yolks of egg 1 tbsp. chopped capers 

2 raw yolks % tbsp. chopped sardines 
% cup of fine salad oil % tbsp. mustard 

% cup thick sour cream 1 pinch of salt 

3 tbsps. lemon juice or vinegar Pepper 

Preparation: The two kinds of yolks of eggs are mixed 
well, the oil added a few drops at a time, cream and lemon 
juice slowly stirred in, then capers, sardines and mustard are 
added. Season with salt and pepper and keep cold. 

No. 39— GOLD CHIVE DRESSING. 
For Beef. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% cup of cream or milk 1 pinch of pepper and sugar 

1/6 cup of vinegar Vi cup of finely chopped chives 

Salt to taste 
Preparation: Cream, vinegar and chives are stirred to- 
gether, then seasoned with salt, pepper and sugar. 

No. 40— COLD CAVIAR DRESSING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Vs lb. of caviar 2 tbsps. of vinegar 

3 yolks of eggs 1 pinch of pepper and sugar 

V2 cup of cream Salt to taste 

Preparation: Put the 3 yolks of eggs and cream into a 
double boiler and cook until it thickens, stirring constantly, 
add the vinegar and stir until cold, then season with pepper, 
sugar and salt. 

Put the caviar into a sieve, and let cold water run over it 
until it becomes granular, then stir into the dressing. This 
dressing is good with blue fish. 

No. 41— MAYONNAISE DRESSING No. 1. (COLD). 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 yolks of eggs 1/10 tsp. of mustard 

% pt. olive oil Vi tsp. of sugar 

Juice of % lemon Salt to taste 

1 pinch of white pepper 

Preparation: The 6 yolks of eggs are stirred with the oil, 
then seasoned with lemon juice, pepper, mustard, sugar and 
salt. 

Remarks: Mayonnaise dressing is good with salmon. 



— 172 — 

No. 4a— MAYONNAISE DRESSING No. 2. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 yolks of eggs % tsp. of mugtard 

1/3 pt. fine salad oil % tsp. of grated onion 

3 tbsps. of bouillon 1 pinch of pepper 
2 tbsps. of vinegar Salt to taste 

Preparation : The yolks of eggs are stirred adding the oil 
and vinegar a few drops at a time, season with onion, pepper 
and salt and add sufficient bouillon to give it the required 
thickness - 

No. 43— COOKED MAYONNAISE DREiSSING. 

Very Good With Lobster or Chicken Salad. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

4 yolks of eggs 1 pinch of white pepper 
% cup of sour cream 1 pinch of salt 

2 tbsps. of vinegar 1 pinch of sugar 

% tsp. ground mustard % pt. of thick, sour whipped 

cream 

Preparation: Yolks of eggs, cream, vinegar, mustard, pep- 
per, salt and sguar are mixed well and cooked in a double 
boiler, stirring constantly until it thickens. When the gravy 
is cold, add sour whipped cream. 

Remarks: You may peel a dill pickle, chop it very fine 
and add to the dressing 

No. 44— MAYONNAISE DRESSING No. 3. 

Very Good With Poultry Salad. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 yolks of eggs 1 pinch of white pepper 

1 tsp. of flour Salt 

1 cup of sweet cream % tsp. of grated onion 
% cup of good poultry broth 2 tbsps. of fine oil 

2 tbsps. of vinegar 

Preparation : Yolks of eggs, cream, broth and vinegar are 
mixed well and boiled in double boiler as before mentioned in 
No. 43, then seasoned with salt, pepper and onion. Stir the 
dressing until cold, then add 2 tablespoonfuls of oil a few drops 

at a time. 

Sweet Sauces or Dressings. 
Sauces for Puddings and Pastries. 

No. 45— WHITE WINE SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 eggs 2 slices of lemon 
1 tsp. of flour 2 tbsps. of sugar 

1 tumblerful of white wine 
Preparation: The 2 whole eggs, flour, wine, sugar are 



-173^ 



mixed well on the stove and stirred until it becomes foamy and 
begins to thicken, but must not cook. Then add the lemon 
slices. 

Remarks: This sauce may be served cold or warm. 



No. 4&— ARRACK SAUCE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% cup of arrack or brandy 2 tbsps. of lemon juice 

1 pt. of water 1 slice of lemon 

3 yolks of eggs 1% tbsps. of flour 

% lb. of sugar 

Preparation: All ingredients except the arrack or brandy 
are mixed well and treated the same as mentioned under No. 
45. The arrack or brandy is stirred in last. This sauce may 
be served cold or warm. 

No. 47— VANILLA SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 pt. of milk 4 yolks of eggs 

% vanilla bean or 1 tsp. of flour 

1 tbsp. vanilla extract % cup of sugar 

Preparation: The vanilla bean is left to soak in milk for 
1 hour, then the sugar is added. The milk is broug-ht to boil, 
the yolks of eggs and flour are mixed with a little cold milk, 
slowly stirred into tihe boiling milk and cooked for one min- 
ute. If you wish to use this sauce cold, it must be stirred 
several times while getting cold so it will not form a skin. 

Remarks : The sauce must be stirred well while boiling. 

When it is used cold you may add Yt. cup of whipped 
cream or the white of t^% beaten to a froth. 



No. 48— COCOA SAUCE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 pt. milk 3 tbsps. of cocoa 

% tsp. of vanilla extract % cup of sugar 

4 yolks of eggs 

Preparation : Stir the cocoa with the yolks of eggs and a 
little cold milk and prepare tihe sauce like vanilla sauce given 
under No. 47. 

No. 49— CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The preparation is the same as given under No. 47 and 
No. 48, but instead of cocoa, 1/4 lb. of chocolate is grated and 
stirred into the yolks of eggs and milk and less sugar is needed. 



— 174 — 

No. 50— LEMON SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 pt. of milk 1 tsp. of flour 

1/3 lemon peel V4, cup of sugar 

4 yolks of eggs 
The preparation is the same as g^iven under No. 47, but 
instead of vanilla use lemon peel. 

No. 51— MARASCHINO SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 tbsps. of maraschino 1 tsp. of flour 

1 pt. of milk % cup of sugar 

4 yolks of eggs 

The preparation is the same as given under No. 47, but 
instead of vanilla, use 4 tablespoonfuls maraschino. 

No. 52~CHERRY SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. sour cherries Sugar to taste 

% qt. of water 1 small piece of cinnamon 

1 Vz tbsps. of corn starch 
Preparation: The cherries are stoned and boiled in the 
water for 1 hour, then rubbed through a fine sieve. The corn 
sfardh is dissolved in a little water, then stirred into the boil- 
ing cherry sauce mixed with sugar and cooked 5 minutes, stir- 
ring constantly. The sauce is served cold. 

No. 53— PRUNE SAUCE. 

Preparation and ingredients are the same as given under 
No. 53. Instead of cherries use 1 lb. of fresh or dried prunes. 

No. 64— APRICOT SAUCE. 

Preparation and ingredients are the same as given under 
No. 52. Instead of cherries use 1 lb. of fresh or dried apricots. 

No. 55— STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
1 pt. strawberry juice 1 stick of cinnamon 

Va lb. of sugar 1 % tbsps. of corn starch 

1 tsp. of vanilla or lemon extract 

Preparation: The corn starch is mixed with some juice. 
The remaining juice is mixed with sugar and spices and put 
over the fire until it boils, tlhen the dissolved corn starch added 
and boiled 5 minutes, stirring constantly. The sauce is served 
cold or warm. 

Remarks: When the juice from preserved fruit is used, 
less sugar is needed. 



— 175 — 

No. 56— RASPBERRY SAUCE. 

Preparation and ingredients are the same as gfiven under 
No. 55; instead of 1 pt. of strawberry juice, use 1 pt. of rasp- 
berry juice. 

No. 57— CHERRY, CURRANT, BLUEBERRY SAUCE. 

Preparation and ingredients are the same as given under 
No. 55 but instead of strawberry juice, use either cherry, cur- 
rant or blueberry juice. 

No. 58— FRUIT PUREE SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Sauce made from prunes or fresh plums, cherries, straw- 
berries, raspberries, gooseberries, currants, grapes, apples or 
apricots. 

% lb. of fruit puree % qt. of water 

Sugar to taste 1% tbsps. of corn starch 

1 small piece of cinnamon % cup of white wine 

% lemon 

Preparation: The fruit puree is made very savory with 
sugar and spices. The corn starch is mixed with a little water 
and stirred into it, also the rest of the water, then the whole is 
cooked and rubbed through a fine sieve. If the sauce should 
be too thin, use more corn starch. The wine may be omitted. 



— 176 — 

CHAPTER 11. 

POTATOES. 



The variovK recipes for the preparation of potatoes. 



The potato is a very useful food and may be prepared in 
many ways. Salt is necessary to make the potato savory. It 
must be boiled well done and quickly. It may be peeled long 
before using, but should be kept covered with water after it 
is peeled, otherwise it will turn brown. Potatoes lose their 
good flavor if they are kept in a moist cellar where they will 
grow poisonous sprouts. They sprout also in the spring; the 
sprouts should be immediately removed. 



No. 1— POTATOES IN THEIR SKINS OR JACKETS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of medium sized potatoes Water sufficient to cover them 

3 tbsps. of salt 
Preparation: The potatoes must be of equal size. They 
are cleaned in cold water and put to boil in cold water in a 
covered kettle. When done, drain off the water, shake them 
a little and set them aside to dry and their jackets will burst. 



No. 2— NEW POTATOES IN THEIR JACKETS. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of potatoes 3 tbsps. of salt 

Water sufficient to cover them 1 tsp. of caraway seeds if desired 

Preparation: The potatoes are cleaned in cold water and 
with a kitchen knife, a small piece of peeling is cut off. Put 
on the fire with cold water and caraway. When done, pour 
off the water, leave the dish covered, shake it and set it aside 
to dry, and their jackets will burst. 

Remarks : The potatoes must be kept constantly boiling. 



No. 3— BAKED POTATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of potatoes 

Preparation: The potatoes should be of even size. They 
are cleaned in cold water, the point of each is cut off and they 
are baked in the oven for 1 good hour. The oven must be very 
hot. Serve in their jackets. 



—177 — 

No. 4^PEELED POTATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 % lbs. of raw potatoes Water sufficient to cover them 

1% tbsps. of salt 
Preparation: The potatoes are cleaned in cold water and 
peeled. The very large ones are quartered, the medium-sized 
ones are cut into halves and the small ones rounded, with the 
eyes well pierced out. Put into clear water at once after peel- 
ing. Then put them over the fire with cold water and salt, boil 
quickly, drain well and set them aside to dry a little. 

No. 5— SMALL POTATO BALLS. 
To Be Served With Fish. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
5 — 6 lbs. of large potatoes Water sufficient to cover them 

1 tbsp. of salt 

Preparation: The potatoes are cleaned in cold water, 
peeled, and with a vegetable scoop cut out round balls. They 
are then put over the fire in a kettle with water and salt and 
boiled until done which requires about 15 to 20 minutes. Drain 
the water off at once and set aside to dry. 

Remarks: You may steam these potatoes, wlhich requires 
; Yi hour. They are very nice when steamed. 

No. 6— UTILIZING THE REMNANTS OF POTATO 
BALLS, MASHiED POTATOES. 

The remnants from potato balls 1% tbsps. of salt 
Water sufficient to cover them 2 tbsps. of butter 

Preparation: The potato remnants are boiled until tender 
in salt water, which is then drained off and the potatoes press- 
ed through a potato masher. The butter is added, the pot with 
these potatoes placed into hot water and beaten until well 
mashed, seasoned with salt, then served in a hot dish. 

Remarks: The remnants may also be used for potato 
soup or dumplings. 

The whites of 5 eggs, well beaten, may be stirred into the 
above and then baked in a buttered pan in the oven. 

No. 7— PARSLEY POTATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
5 — 6 lbs. of large potatoes 1 tbsp. of finely chopped parsley 

1 tbsp. of salt ' 2 tbsps. of fresh butter 

Water sufficient to cover them 
Preparation: The potatoes are peeled, scooped out and 
cooked as given under No. 5. When they are done, stir in the 
butter mixed with parsley and cover a few minutes. 



—178 — 

No. 8— FRENCH FRIED POTATOES, POMME 
SOUFFLE. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 

1% lbs. of raw potatoes 1 tsp. fine salt 

1 % lbs. clear lard 

Preparation: The potatoes are peeled and cut into thin 
oblong or round slices as thick as the back of a knife or cut 
out in small balls. The lard is heated until it smokes, but 
must not boil. 

The potatoes are dried with a clean cloth and ffied to a 
golden yellow color in the lard, then they are placed into a 
colander to drain, sprinkled with salt, shaken a little and 
served very hot. 

No. 9— POTATO CHIPS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

The ingredients are the same as given under No. 8, French 
Fried Potatoes. 

Prepeiration : The potatoes are cleaned, peeled and sliced 
so thin that you can see the knife through them. The lard is 
heated until it smokes, a handful of potato slices at a time are 
dried and fried golden yellow in the hot lard, then taken out 
with a skimmer and placed on paper to drain. Salt and serve 
very hot. They must never be covered, neither while cooking 
nor afterwards. 

No. 10— STUFFED POTATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
12 large potatoes % tsp. of grated onion 

1/10 lb. of butter 1 pinch of pepper 

2 yolks of eggs Salt to taste 

% tbsp. of Parmesan cheese Some butter for frying 

1 tsp. of finely chopped parsley 

Preparation: The potatoes are washed well and cooked 
in their jackets, removed from the fire when barely done, 
strained, peeled, then carefully cut into halves and scooped 
out. The pieces which have been removed, are pressed through 
a potato masher and mixed with butter,_ Parmesan cheese, 
onion, parsley and yolk of egg. Season with salt and pepper 
and put back into the scooped out potato halves, smooth off on 
top, sprinkle with salt and fry in butter to a golden yellow 
color. 

Remarks : They are very fine to serve with cold meats or 
to garnish hot meat platters. 



— 179 — 

No. 11— POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 

1 lb. of potatoes Salt to taste 

% lb. of butter % lb. finely grated bread 

3 yolks of eggs Butter or lard for frying 

1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: The potatoes are washed, cooked, peeled, 
grated and pressed through a potato masher. The butter is 
creamed with the yolks of eggs and grated potatoes stirred in 
and seasoned with salt and pepper. Small croquettes are 
formed, rolled in bread crumbs and fried in butter or lard to a 
nice color. Serve hot. 



No. 12— POTATO BALLS, FRIED. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 lb. of potatoes 1 pinch of pepper 

% lb. of butter Salt to taste 

4 yolks of eggs % cup of flour 

1 tbsp. of Parmesan cheese 1 cup of roll crumbs 

1 1 pinch of nutmeg Lard for frying 

I Preparation: The potatoes are boiled, peeled, grated or 
mashed. Cream the butter, stir in the yolks of eggs, Parmesan 
cheese, nutmeg, pepper and salt, the mashed potatoes and flour. 
Balls, walnut size, are formed from this mass, rolled in roll 
crumbs and fried in hot lard to a nice golden yellow color. 
The lard should be deep enough for the balls to float. Drain 
in a colander or on paper. 

Remarks: These potato balls are nice to garnish meat 
platters. 

No. 13— SOUR POTATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. of potatoes 1 pt. good beef bouillon 

% lb. of butter or good 1 pinch of pepper 

drippings 2 tbsps. of vinegar or to taste 

1 tsp. of chopped onions Salt to taste 

3 tbsps. of flour 

Preparation: The potatoes are cooked, peeled and sliced. 
While they are boiling, the dressing is prepared. Brown the 
butter or lard with the onions, stir in the flour, stew a little 
while, add the bouillon and season to taste with vinegar, salt 
and pepper and cook a few minutes. Put in the boiled sliced 
potatoes, cook a few minu.tes and serve. 



— 180 — 

No. 14r— CREAMED POTATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 lb. of potatoes % pt. of milk and 

% lb. of butter % pt. of sweet cream 

2 tbsps. of flour 1 pinch of pepper 
% pt. of milk or Salt 

Preparation: The potatoes are cooked in the jackets, then 
peeled and sliced or cut into small dice. Or bake the potatoes 
in the oven, peel them and cut into dice. Melt the butter, stir 
in the flour, cook 1 minute, add the milk and cream, cook a 
little while, season with salt and pepper, put in the potatoes, 
cook and serve. The dressing must neither be too thin nor 
too thick. 

Remarks: Creamed potatoes are nice with soup meat, 
mutton chops or fried sausage. 

No. 15— BAKED POTATO PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% lbs. of potatoes 1 pinch salt 

Fully Vs lb. of butter Pepper 

4 — 6 eggs % cupful of flour 

% tbsp. of Parmesan clieese Butter for the mold 

Preparation : The potatoes are boiled, peeled and mashed. 
The butter is creamed with yolks of eggs, cheese, pepper and 
salt. Stir in the mashed potatoes, the flour and lastly the 
beaten white of egg. Butter the mold, put the mixture in and 
bake in medium hot oven for 45 minutes. 



No. 16— STEAMED POTATO PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

Preparation and ingredients are the same as given under 
No. 15. The prepared mixture is put into a mold that has 
been buttered and sprinkled with bread crumbs. Set in a 
steamer over a kettle of boiling water and boil for 1 hour. 
Then turn it out on a platter and serve. 

Remarks : ' Caper sauce is good with potato pudding. 

No. 17— POTATO PANCAKES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of raw potatoes 1 large sour apple, peeled and 

3- — 4 eggs grated 

1% cupfuls of flour % tsp. of grated onion 

1 pinch of pepper Enough lard for baking 

% tbsp. of salt 
Preparation: The raw potatoes are peeled, washed and 
put into cold water. Take out of the water and grate quickly. 



— 181 — 

Drain off the water that collects on the grated potatoes, mix 
them with the yolks of eggs, flour, pepper, salt, apple, onion 
and lastly with the beaten whites of eggs. Heat the lard and 
bake 3 to 4 thin pancakes in the pan at once. They must be 
baked brown and crisp. The dish or plate on which they are 
served, should not be covered. 

Remarks: Apple sauce is good with them. 



No. 18— BOUILLON POTATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 % lbs. of raw potatoes Salt to taste 

1% qts. of beef bouillon 1 piece of butter, half the size 

1 medium sized onion of an egg 

1 pinch of pepper 3 tbsps. of finely chopped parsley 

Preparation: The potatoes are peeled and cut into quar- 
ters or sixths, according to their size, then partly boiled in 
water. Drain off the water and pour on the boiling bouillon, 
season with salt, pepper and onion, do not cover them and 
cook slowly until the bouillon has been absorbed by the pota- 
toes. Add the butter, cook a little longer, then add the parsley. 

Remarks : With new potatoes you need only 1 qt. of bouil- 
lon, because they are not so mealy. 



No. 19— SARDINE OR HERRING POTATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of boiled potatoes 2 herrings 

Scant % lb. of sardines or 

For the Gravy. 

% lb. of raw ham % qt. of beef bouillon 

% lb. of butter 1 pinch of pepper 

2 sliced onions Very little salt 

% lb. of flour 1 tbsp. Parmesan cheese 

% qt. of sweet cream or milk 

Preparation: The boiled potatoes are peeled and sliced, 
sardines or herring are soaked in water and cut in small pieces. 
The ham, which may be remnants, is also cut and fried in % 
lb. of butter and the sliced onion. The butter must not get 
brown ; stir in the flour and after cooking a little, add the bouil- 
lon and cream, season with salt and pepper if necessary. Cook 
this dressing slowly for yi hour, then rub through a sieve. Fill 
a buttered baking-dish or casserole with layers of sliced pota- 
toes and herring or sardines alternately, pour the dressing 
over, strew with cheese and drip on a little butter, then bake 
in oven 20 minutes, being careful that the dressing does not 



— 182 — 

boil, as that will make it thin. It is best ,to put t'he dish into 
another dish with water before baking. Bake until a golden 
yellow. 

Remarks: This may also be prepared without sardines 
or herring. 

No. 20— POTATOES WITH CRACKERS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of raw potatoes 1 pinch of pepper 

% lb. of salt crackers Salt 

1 qt. of sweet cream or milk % lb. of butter 

Preparation: The raw potatoes are peeled, sliced th'in, 
and the crackers rolled. Butter a baking-dish or casserole, fill 
with layers of potatoes and crackers alternately, with small 
pieces of butter, salt and pepper between each, repeating until 
all has been used. Then pour the cream -or milk over, put a 
few pieces of butter on top and bake 1>4 hours. 

Remarks: This dish is good with cold meats. 



No. 21— FRIED RAW POTATOES, 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 % lbs. raw potatoes 1 small, chopped onion 

% lb. of butter or good % pt. of water 

drippings Salt to taste 

Preparation: The raw potatoes are peeled, sliced very 
thin and washed well. Butter or drippings are put into a pan, 
add the sliced potatoes, onion, salt and pepper. Cover and fry 
slowly,, gradually adding the water. In Yz hour the potatoes 
are done and of a golden yellow color. 



No. 22— SWEET POTATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of sweet potatoes 

Preparation : The potatoes are washed well and baked in 
their skins in the oven for % to 1 hour. Fresh butter is served 
with them. 

No. 23— POTATO DUMPLINGS FROM BOILED 
POTATOES. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3% lbs. of boiled potatoes Vz tsp. of onion 

1 % cups of roll crumbs 1 pinch of pepper 

% roll cut into cubes 1 heaping tbsp. of salt 

% lb. of butter % cup of flour 

3 — 4 eggs Salt water 

Preparation: The potatoes are boiled, peeled and grated 
when they are cooled oflf or mashed while still hot. When cold, 



— 183 — 

the mashed potatoes are mixed well with roll crumbs, eggs, 
onion, pepper, salt, the i/g lb. of melted butter and the flour. 
The roll cubes are fried in butter crisp and yellow. These 
pieces are put in the middle of dumplings formed of the 
mashed potatoes, rolled in flour and cooked in salt water 15 
to 20 minutes in an open kettle. The water must be boiling 
when the dumplings are put in. 

Remarks: Try a dumpling; if it does not hold together, 
add more flour. The dumplings must be taken out of the 
water as soon as done. Serve hot. 



No. 24r-ANOTHER KIND OF POTATO 
DUMPLINGS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3% lbs. of boiled potatoes 1 tbsp. of salt 

1/12 lb. of butter 2 cups of flour 

4 — 5 eggs 1 roll cut into cubes 

1 pinch of nutmeg Salt water for cooking 

Preparation: The potatoes are boiled, peeled and grated. 
When they are cold, butter, eggs, nutmeg, salt and flour are 
stirred in. The roll cubes are fried in butter until crisp, then 
medium sized dumplings are formed from this mixture with 
the roll cubes in the center. Dip your hands into flour and 
make the dumplings round and firm, then roll them in flour 
and boil them in an open kettle 15 or 20 minutes. The salt 
water must boil briskly before the dumplings are put in. 

Remarks: Try a dumpling first and if it does not hold 
together add more flour. Sour roast goes nicely with potato 
dumplings. 

No. 25— RAW POTATO DUMPLINGS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
5 lbs. of large potatoes 1 tbsp. of salt 

1% pts. of milk 1 roll cut into cubes 

% lb. of fine farina Salt water for cooking 

3 eggs 

Preparation: The raw potatoes are peeled, grated and 
pressed dry in a cloth. Bring the milk to boil, pour in the 
farina slowly and boil it 3 to 4 minutes, stirring constantly. 
Mix the grated potato with the boiling farina, yolks of eggs, 
salt and beaten whites of eggs. Fry the roll cubes in butter 
very crisp. Rinse your hands in cold water, make dumplings 
from the mixture with the roll cubes in the center. While 
the dumplings are being made the salt water is brought to 
boil and t'he dumplings are put in for 15 to 20 minutes. Do 



— 184- 



not cover the pot. The raw potato dumplings must be pre- 
pared quickly or they will turn black. 

Remarks: They may be served with any kind of meat. 



No. 26— UTILIZING REMNANTS OF POTATO 
DUMPLINGS. 

The dumplings left over are sliced and fried in butter to 
a golden yellow color. 



— 185 — 

CHAPTER 12. 

VEGETABLES. 



The various preparations of vegetables. 

Vegetables are known to be the best and most wholesome 
food. 

Mushrooms, all kinds of cabbage, legumes are good for 
anemics. The legumes and cabbages must be washed well and 
scalded. 

The Preservation of Vegetables During the Winter. 

Cauliflower is cut off above the roots, the outer leaves 
removed, a string tied to the stem and hung up on the ceiling 
of the cellar. White and red cabbage and savoy cabbage are 
preserved in the same manner. 

Kohlrabi, carrots, turnips, parsley roots, celery roots and 
jtehallots are kept in dry sand over winter. 
B Fresh parsley is kept in glass jars by putting in alternate 
Bayers of salt and parsley. Qose the glass well each time 
^fter taking some out. Rinse the parsley before using. 



No. 1— ASPARAGUS WITH BROWN BUTTER. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of asparagus 1 % tbsps. of salt 

3 qts. of water % lb. of fresh butter 

I*reparation : The asparagus stalks are washed and 
peeled thin at the top and thicker toward the end. If the ends 
are woody cut them off. Then tie the asparagus into small 
bundles and put them into salt water to boil until tender, 
about 3^ hour. Place them on a platter with the heads all 
lying one way, lightly brown the butter and pour it over. 
Serve hot. 

No. 2— ASPARAGUS WITH CREAMED BUTTER. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of asparagus t% tbsps. of salt 

3 qts. of water % lb. fresh butter 

Preparation: Preparation and cooking of this asparagus 
are the same as given under No. 1. Serve the asparagus on 
a platter covered with a napkin, then cream the butter and 
serve in a separate dish. 



— 186 — 

No. 3— ASPARAGUS WITH CREAM DRESSING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of asparagus 1% tbsps. of salt 

3 qts. of water 

For the Dressing. 

% lb. of butter 4 tbsps. of sweet cream 

1 even tbsp. of flour % pt. asparagus liquor 

4 yolks of eggs 

Preparation: The asparagus are prepared and cooked as 
given under No. 1. When they are tender pile them on a 
platter keeping the heads all one way and prepare the dressing. 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, the yolks of eggs and 
the cream and gradually pour in the boiling asparagus liquor. 
Let it come to a boil, stirring constantly, pour over the aspara- 
gus and serve hot. 



No. 4— CANNED ASPARAGUS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
This asparagus is carefully heated and served with any 
kind of dressing prepared for it as given either under No. 1, 
No. 2 or No. 3. 



No. 5— FRENCH ASPARAGUS WITH CREAM 
DRESSING. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of fresh or 2 qts. of water 

2 lb. can of asparagus 1 tbsp. of salt 

For the Dressing. 

% lb. o£ butter % pt. of asparagus liquor 

2 tbsps. of flour 2 yolks of eggs 

% cup of sweet or sour cream 3 tbsps. of lemon juice 

Preparation: Thin stalks of asparagus may be used for 
this ; they are peeled and cut into 2 inch lengths, then cooked 
in boiling salt water for 20 minutes. The water is poured off, 
the asparagus put into a dish and the gravy or dressing poured 
over. .For the dressing melt the butter, stir in the flour and 
pour in gradually the boiling asparagus liquor, add sour or 
sweet cream, 3 teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, stirring constantly, 
boil 1 minute, then add the 2 yolks of eggs, but do not boil 
any more. 



— 187 — 

No. 6— PRESERVED ASPARAGUS WITH CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Preparation and ingredients are the same as given under 
No. 5, French Asparagus with Cream Dressing. 

No. 7— GREEN ASPARAGUS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 lbs. of asparagus % lb. of butter 

31^ qts. of water 3 slices of toasted wheat bread 

2 tbsps. of salt 
Preparation: The green asparagus is washed, but not 
peeled, and cooked 20 minutes in boiling salt water. The 
slices of toast are placed on a platter and the asparagus, from 
which the water is drained in a colander, put on each slice of 
toast, heads all one way. The butter which has been heated 
to a golden color is poured on. Serve very hot. 

No. 8— ASPARAGUS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of fresh or % pt. sweet or sour cream 

|2 lbs. of canned asparagus % pt. asparagus liquor 

■|qts. of water % tbsp. of Parmesan cheese 

Btbsp. of salt 2 tbsps. of grated rolls 

K lb. of butter 1 tbsp. of butter 

W^ 3 scant tbsps. of ilour 

Preparation: The fresh asparagus is peeled and cooked 
as given under No. 5. 

For the dressing melt the butter, stir in the flour, add 
the cheese, the sweet or sour cream, and cook, stirring con- 
stantly. The dressing must be thick. 

Drain the water off the asparagus, butter a baking dish, 
put in the asparagus and dressing, strew the roll crumbs 
over and drip the tablespoonful of butter on. Bake this by 
setting tihe baking-dish in a dish with hot water in the oven 
about 10 to 15 minutes. 

Boiled ham or tongue is nice with this dish. 
Remarks: It makes a fine side-dish. 



No. 9— CAULIFLOWER. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 head of cauliflower, 2 lbs. 2 tbsps. of salt 

4 qts. of water 

For the Dressing. 

Vg lb. of fresh butter % pt. of sweet cream 

2 tbsps. of flour 2 — 3 yolks of eggs 
% pt. of cauliflower liquor A little nutmeg 



— 188 — 

Preparation: Pick off the outer leaves and put the head 
of cauliflower, the top downward, in cold water for 15 minutes 
to remove the insects that miglit be on it. The salt water 
is brought to boil and the cauliflower boiled in it a half hour. 

For the dressing stew the butter and flour, add the cauli- 
flower liquor and cream, and boil, stirring constantly. Add 
the yolks of eggs and do not boil any more. 

The cauliflower is carefully placed on a platter or into 
a vegetable dish so it does not fall apart and the dressing is 
poured over, then the nutmeg is strewn over it. 

No. 10— CAULIFLOWER WITH BUTTER SAUCE. 
Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
1 head of cauliflower, 2 lbs. 2 tbsps. of salt 

4 qts. of water Vi lb. of butter 

Preparation: The cauliflower is prepared and cooked the 
same as given under No. 9. It is carefully placed in a dish, 
and the hot browned butter poured over. 

No. 11— CAULIFLOWER WITH CRAB OR LOBSTER 
DRESSING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 head of cauliflower, 2 lbs. 2 tbsps. of salt 

4 qts. of water Crab dressing 

Preparation: The preparation of cauliflower is the same 
as given under No. 9. Make a dressing as described under 
No. 19, in Gravies or Dressings and pour it over the head of 
cauliflower. 

No. la— SCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 head of cauliflower, 2 lbs. 2 tbsps. of salt 

4 qts. of water 

For the Dressing. 

% lb. of butter 1 tbsp. of Parmesan cheese 

2 % tbsps. of flour 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

1 pt. sweet or sour cream 2 tbsps. of fine roll crumbs 

1 pinch of salt 1 tbsp. of butter 

Preparation : The cauliflower is cleaned and put in water 
% hour, then boiled in salt water yi hour until almost tender, 
placed into a buttered dislh until the dressing is made. 

The butter is melted, flour stirred in, and cooled 1 minute. 
Add the sweet cream, boil, season with cheese, lemon juice 
and salt to taste. This dressing is poured over the cauliflower, 



— 189— 

roll crumbs strewn on and a little butter dripped over it; 
then baked in oven 20 to 30 minutes until it is a nice yellow 
color. 

No. 13— ARTICHOKES WITH BUTTER. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 large or 6 small artichokes 1 tbsp. of vinegar 

4 qts. of water % lb. of fresh butter 

3 tbsps. of salt 
Preparation: With a sharp knife cut off the points of 
the artichokes about 1>4 inches, t^hen boil them tender in salt 
Mrater and vinegar. Serve them on a dish, cream the butter 
and serve with the artichokes or brown it and pour it over. 

No. 14^STEWED ARTICHOKES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 large artichokes or 6 small 1 tsp. of meat extract 

ones % wineglass Madeira or red 

4 qts. of water wine 

3 tbsps. of salt 2 tbsps. of grated Parmesan 

2 tbsps. of vinegar cheese 

^A lb. of butter 4 tbsps. of champignons 

W^ tbsps. of flour Salt to taste 

^Hpt. strong bouillon 1 pinch of pepper 

^B Preparation: The artichokes are cleaned and prepared 
H^given under No. 13 and cooked partly done in salt water 
and vinegar. Then each one is cut into 'half and the inside 
white fibers removed carefully. These pieces are put into a 
pot, 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, chopped champignons, cheese 
and y2 pt. of bouillon added, the pot covered and the arti- 
chokes stewed 2 hours, turning them over several times. The 
stewed artidhokes are put into a vegetable dish and the dress- 
ing prepared. Heat the rest of the butter with the flour, add 
the artichoke liquor, the rest of the bouillon, Madeira or red 
wine and the meat extract. Cook this well and season with 
pepper and salt, then pour over the artidhokes. 

No. 15— CANNED ARTICHOKES. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
2 lb. can artichokes V* pt. sweet cream 

% lb. butter Juice of V lemon 

2% tbsps. of flour 1 pinch of pepper 

% pt. of bouillon Salt to taste 

Preparation: The canned artichokes are heated and the 
dressing is prepa,red. The butter is heated, the flour stirred 
in, cooked 2 minutes, the bouillon and cream added and cooked 
well. Season the dressing with salt, pepper and lemon juice. 



— 190 — 

Take the artichokes, out of the liquor and put them into this 
dressing to simmer 10 minutes. If you like add 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of white wine and chopped champignons or truffles. 

No. 16— SCALLOPED ARTICHOKES WITH CHEESE 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 large or 6 small artichokes 3 tbsps. of salt. 

4 qts. of water 2 tbsps. of vinegar 

For the Dish 

Vi lb. of butter, good measure % pt. of rich bouillon 
% lb. of grated Parmesan cheese 1 pinch of pepper and salt 

Preparation: The artichokes are prepared as given under 
No. 13. Cooked partly done with vinegar in the boiling salt 
water. From the pieces of cooked artichokes remove the 
white fibers. Place them into a buttered baking-dish or cas- 
serole, strewn with cheese and put on the i/4 lb. of butter in 
small pieces, season with pepper and salt, add the bouillon, 
cover the dish and bake them slowly in the oven 3 to 3 hours 

No. 17— OYSTER PLANTS. SALISFY, 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of oyster plants 1% tbsps. of salt 

2 qts. of water 2 tbsps. of vinegar. 

For the Dressing. 
% lb. of butter 1 pt. sweet cream 

2 tbsps. of flour % tsp. meat extract 

% pt. of bouillon, or 1 pinch of pepper and salt to taste. 

% pt. of bouillon and 

Preparation : The oyster plants are scraped and at once 
placed into water mixed with flour or milk so that they keep 
their white color, then cut into 2 inch lengths and cooked until 
tender in boiling salt water with vinegar. While they are 
cooking, prepare the dressing. Melt the butter, stir in the 
flour, cook and add bouillon or half bouillon and half cream, 
add meat extract, cook and season with pepper and salt. Then 
drain the water from the oyster plants, put them into the 
dressing and set aside to simmer gently for 10 minutes. 

No. 18— SCORZONERA. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of scorzonera 1 tbsp. of salt 

2 qts. of water 2 tbsps. of vinegar 

For the Dressing. 

% lb. of butter % pt. sweet cream or milk 

2 tbsps. of flour Juice of % lemon 

% pt. of bouillon 2 yolks of eggs, ii desired 



—191— 

Preparation: The vegetable is scraped, cut into 3 inch 
lengths and immediately put into water, mixed with flour or 
milk, then cooked until tender in salt water and vineg-ar. This 
will require Yi 'hour, during which time you prepare the dress- 
ing. 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, stew a few minutes, add 
the bouillon and cream or milk, boil again and season with 
lemon juice, pepper and salt. Drain the water from the veg- 
etables, put them into the dressing and cook 10 minutes or 
set aside to simmer gently. When serving stir in the yolks of 
eggs. 

Remarks: For scorzonera salad make a dressing of oil 
and vinegar mixed with mayonnaise. 



No. 19— FRESH GREEN PEAS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1% lbs. of fresh green peas Vi tsp. of meat extract 

»s. of water 1 pinch of pepper 

sp. of salt Salt to taste 

b. of fresh butter % tbsp. of chopped parsley 

bsp. of flour % tsp. of sugar 

% pt. of sweet cream 

Preparation: The fresh, green peas are taken out of the 
pods and boiled until tender in boiling salt water. This will 
require Yi hour; then drain the water ofif, add butter and 
flour, shake the pan, but do not stir it ; add cream, meat ex- 
tract, 1 pinch of pepper, sugar and salt to taste. Let it cook 
slowly and when you serve it put in the chopped parsley. 



No. 20— ANOTHER WAY OF PREPARING PEAS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1% lbs. of fresh, green peas, or 1 pinch of pepper 

2 lb. can Salt to taste 

2 qts. of water % tsp. of sugar 

1 tbsp. of salt 1 tbsp. minced parsley 

% lb. fresh butter 

Preparation: The fresh green peas are prepared and 
cooked as directed under No. 19. When they are done drain 
them, put the drawn butter on, season with pepper, salt, sugar, 
shaking the pan, and sprinkle with minced parsley before 
serving. Canned peas are prepared the same way, but not 
cooked in salt water. 



—192 — 

No. 21— FRESH GREEN PEAS WITH CRAB MEAT. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
1% lbs. fresh green peas 25 crabs or crawfish 

Preparation: The preparation and ingredients are the 
same as given under No. 30. When they are done shake them 
with the hot butter, add the crab meat, mix, drip the crab 
butter on. 

Remarks: This is a very fine dish. 

No. 22— PEA-OMELET. 

Look for the preparation in chapter 15, Omelets. 
No. 23— ASPARAGUS AND CAULIFLOWER 
OMELET. 
Look for the preparation in chapter 15, Omelets. 

No. 24^MARROW PEAS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of marrow peas Salt to taste 

1% pts. of bouillon % tsp. of sugar 

%o lb. of butter % tbsp. of flour 

1 pinch of pepper 1 tbsp. of chopped parsley 

Preparation: The marrow peas are strung like beans, 
washed and cooked until tender in bouillon and butter, then 
add the flour, stir and season with salt, pepper and sugar. 
Lastly add the parsley. 

No. 25— YOUNG CARROTS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 Vz lbs. of carrots 1 pinch of pepper 
1 pt. bouillon 1 tsp. of sugar 
Vlo lb. of butter 1 tbsp. of flour 

Salt to taste 1 tbsp. of finely chopped parsley 

Preparation: The carrots are scraped, cut into small 
pieces or sliced, then washed and cooked until tende in bouil- 
lon and butter. This will require from yi to 1 hour. Season 
them with salt, pepper, sugar to taste, stir in the flour and let 
them cook a little while longer, lastly add the parsley. The 
carrots may be scooped out and the openings filled with boiled 
green peas, then stewed until soft. 



No. 26— FRESH GREEN PEAS AND CARROTS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The peas are prepared as directed under No. 19, but take 
only 1 lb. of peas and J/^ of all other ingredients. Take % of 



— 193 — 

the quantity of carrots also, and prepare according to direc- 
tions in No. 35. When serving, place the carrots in the center 
of the dish and the peas around them. 

No. 27— SPINAGE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 peck of spinage % pt. sweet cream 

5 qts. of water % pt. bouillon 

3 tbsps. of salt 1 pinch of pepper 

% lb. of butter Salt to taste 

2 tbsps. of flour 

Preparation: The spinage is picked over, the stems cut 
off and washed well. Cook it in boiling salt water for 15 min- 
utes, drain the water off and chop the spinage or rub it 
through a colander. 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook and stir in the 
spinage, add sweet cream and bouillon, season with salt and 
pepper and cook a little longer, stirring constantly. 

Remarks: The dish may be garnished with hard boiled 
eggs. 

No. 28— SORREL. 

Sorrel is prepared just like spinage, see No. 27, Spinage. 



No. 29— LETTUCE. 

Lettuce as a vegetable dish is prepared like spinage. See 
No. 87, Spinage. 

No. 30— SPINAGE IN INDIVIDUAL MOLDS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 peck of spinage 1 pinch of pepper 

5 qts. of water Salt to taste 

3 tbsps. salt 3 yolks of eggs 

% lb. of butter % pt. sweet cream 

2 tbsps. of flour 

Preparation: The spinage is picked over, the stems cut 
off, washed well, cooked in boiling salt water for 15 minutes, 
the water then drained off and the spinage rubbed through a 
sieve. 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook, add the spinage, 
season with salt, pepper, stir in the cream and yolks of eggs. 
Put in small buttered molds and set in a steamer over a kettle 
of boiling water and boil until the mixture stiffens, then turn 
them out on a platter and serve. 



— 194 — 

No. 31— SAVOY CABBAGE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 heads of Savoy cabbage, 4-5 lbs. V2 tbsp. of flour 
6 qts. of water Vz tbsp. finely chopped onion 

4 tbsps. of salt % pt. bouillon 

Va lb. of butter or 1 pinch of pepper 

half butter and half lard Salt to taste 

Preparation: The head of cabbage is cut into half, re- 
move the outer leaves and cut out the heart or core, then cut 
up the rest into several pieces, wash it and cook it 20 minutes 
in boiling salt water. 

Butter and onions are stewed a little while, add the flour 
and stew a few minutes. Drain the water from the cabbage, 
chop it or rub it through a colander, then add it to the butter, 
onion and flour ; add the bouillon, season with salt and pepper 
and cook slowly for 15 minutes. 



No. 32— BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 lbs. of Brussels sprouts % pt. of bouillon 

4 qts. of water ^, tsp. of meat extract to taste 
2 tbsps. of salt 1 pinch of pepper 

Vb lb. of butter Salt to taste 

V2 tbsp. of flour 

Preparation: The sprouts are cleaned, the yellow leaves 
removed, then slowly boiled in salt water. Drain off the water. 
Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook a little while, add the 
bouillon and meat extract and put in the Brussels sprouts. 
Season with salt and pepper and cook 20 minutes longer. The 
little sprouts must not fall apart. 

Remarks: When served it may be garnished with a 
wreath of fried chestnuts. 



No. 33— ANOTHER WAY OF PREPARING BRUSSELS 

SPROUTS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 lbs. of Brussels sprouts % cup of fine roll crumbs 

4 qts. of water % cup of strong bouillon 
2 tbsps. of salt 1 pinch of pepper 

% lb. of butter 

Preparation: The sprouts are prepared as before, (See 
No. 33.) After the water has been drained oflf, melt % lb. of 
butter, add the sprouts, pour in some bouillon, season with 
salt and pepper and serve. Fry the roll crumbs in the other 
Ys lb. of butter and put over the sprouts before serving. 



— 195— 

No. 34— KALE OR BORECOLK 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 — 3% lbs. ol kale 1 tbsp. of flour 

6 qts. of water % to 1 pt. strong bouillon 

3 tbsps. of salt 1 pinch of pepper 

% lb. of butter or good drippings Salt to taste 

Preparation: The ribs of the leaves are cut out, then the 
kale is washed carefully 4 to 5 times, to remove all sand. Cook 
in boiling salt water for y^ hour or until tender, then pour it 
into a colander to drain. Now chop it fine or rub it through 
the colander. 

The butter or drippings are melted, the flour stirred in, 
stewed, the prepared kale added, and then the bouillon. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Cook slowly 1 to li/^ hours and add 
Yz cup of sweet cream' if you like. 



No. 35— STEWED RED CABBAGE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 head of red cabbage, 4 lbs. 2 peeled and sliced apples 
% lb. of butter or good drippings 2 cloves 

% glass red wine to taste 1 pinch of pepper 

2 tbsps. of vinegar Salt to taste 
1 tbsp. of sugar 1 pt. water 

Preparation: The bad leaves are cut off, the cabbage cut 
into half, the heart cut out and the cabbage sliced. Pour a 
pint of boiling water on, add butter or drippings, cook one 
hour, add all the other ingredients. Cook 1 to 2 hours longer, 
stirring occasionally. Ten minutes before serving it, add 1 
tablespoonful flour and stew 10 minutes longer. 

Remarks: Taste the cabbage so that it is neither too 
sweet nor too sour. You may use vinegar instead of wine. 



No. 36— WHITE CABBAGE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
White cabbage, 4 lbs. 1 tbsp. of flour 

5 qts. of water % tbsp. caraway seeds 

% lb. of good drippings 1 pinch of pepper 

1 pt. bouillon Salt to taste 

Preparation: The bad leaves are removed, the head of 
cabbage cut in half, the heart cut out and the cabbage cut in- 
to 16 parts. It is cooked in boiling salt water for 15 minutes, 
drained, drippings and bouillon added and stewed for 1 hour. 
Add caraway seeds, flour, salt and pepper and stew a while 
longer. 



— 196 — 

No. 37— STEWED WHITE CABBAGE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

4 lbs. of white cabbage 1 tbsp. of flour 

5 qts. of water 1 pinch of pepper 
% lb. of drippings Salt to taste 

1 tbsp. of sugar 1 pt. of bouillon or water 

3 — 5 tbsp. of vinegar 

Preparation: The cabbage is prepared as directed under 
No. 36. The sliced cabbage is stewed for 15 minutes, the 
water drained off, bouillon or water and drippings added and 
stewed for one hour. Sugar, vinegar, flour, pepper, salt are 
added and the cabbage stewed another hour, stirring fre- 
quently. 

No. 38— WHITE CABBAGE PREPARED LIKE 
CAULIFLOWER. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
i lbs. of white cabbage 4 tbsp. of salt 

6 qts. of water 
For the Dressing. 
% lb of butter 1 pinch of pepper 

2 % tbsps. of flour Salt to taste 

1 pt. of milk 2 yolks of eggs 

Preparation : The outer leaves are removed and the head 
of cabbage cooked until tender in 6 qts. of boiling salt water. 
The butter is melted, flour stirred in, milk added, cooked and 
seasoned with salt, pepper and if you like, stir in the yolks ol 
eggs. Put the head of cabbage on a platter and pour the thick 
dressing over it, then serve at once. 

No. 39— WHITE CABBAGE SAUSAGES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 head of cabbage, 4 lbs. 1 tbsp. of butter 

5 qts. of water Salt to taste 

3 tbsps. of salt Vi lb. of bacon, cut fine 
% lb. chopped pork 1 onion, cut fine 

% lb. of chopped beef % pt. gravy 

1 pinch of pepper 
Preparation: The bad leaves are removed and after 
cleaning the cabbage well, it is cooked partly done in boiling 
salt water. The outer leaves are then carefully cut ofif. The 
leavings of the cabbage are chopped fine, also the pork and 
beef and all this is mixed well, seasoned with butter, salt and 
pepper. Some of this mixture is put on each cabbage leaf and 
the leaf is rolled round it and tied with a clean string. The 
bacon is put into a pan and the cabbage sausages fried brown 
in it. The gravy is poured in and all is cooked a few minutes, 
then served on a platter. 



— 197 — 

No. 40— WHITE CABBAGE WITH LAMB. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 head of white cabbage, 5 lbs. 1 pinch of pepper 
5 qts. water Salt to taste 

2 — 3 lbs. of lamb 1 qt. of water 

Preparation: The bad leaves are trimmed off, the heart 
cut out, the cabbage cut up into 8 parts and cooked 15 min- 
utes in boiling water, then the water is drained off. 1 to 3 
qts. of water are poured on the cabbage, the meat is put in, 
season with salt and pepper and boil until tender. By the time 
the meat is done, the water ought to be boiled down so the 
vegetables are not too juicy. 

No. 41— KOHLRABI. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 — 8 medium sized kohlrabis Vz pt. of bouillon 

3 qts. of water % tsp. of meat extract 

1 tbsp. of salt % cup of sweet cream 
Mo lb. of butter 1 pinch of salt 

1% tbsps. of flour 1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: The kohlrabis are peeled, sliced and cooked 
until tender in boiling salt water. Drain off the water. Melt 
the butter, add the flour and bouillon and cook. Put in the 
kohlrabis, season with salt and pepper, add the cream and stew 
slowly for 15 minutes. 

No. 42— TURNIPS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 — 8 medium sized turnips V2 tbsp. of flour 

4 qts. of water % pt. of bouillon 

2 tbsps. of salt 1 pinch of pepper 
Vlo lb. of butter Salt to taste 

Preparation: The turnips are peeled, sliced, cooked until 
tender in boiling salt water, which is- drained off when done. 
Put tihe butter on the turnips, add the flour and bouillon, sea- 
son with salt and pepper and stew 15 minutes more. 

No. 43— TELTOW TURNIPS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of Teltow turnips 1 pt. of bouillon 

3 qts. of water % tsp. of meat extract 
2 tbsps. of salt 1% tsps. of sugar 

Va lb. of butter 1 pinch of pepper 

1 tbsp. of flour Salt to taste 

Preparation: The vegetable is scraped, washed well in 
warm water, put into boiling salt water and boiled partly done. 



— 198— 

then drained. The turnips are stewed in butter to which the 
flour, sugar and bouillon are added, then the dish is covered 
and left to stew until tender. Season with salt and pepper. 
The vegetable must not be too juicy. 

No. 44^STEWED GREEN STRING BEANS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2% lbs. fresh, green beans 1 tsp. of sugar 

% lb. of butter or good drippings 1 small piece of summer savory 
1% Pt. of bouillon 1 tbsp. of chopped parsley 

1 tbsp. of flour Salt and pepper 

1 — 2 tbsps. of vinegar 
Preparation: String the beans, slice them or break into 4 
parts each, wash them, put over the fire with the butter or 
drippings, some bouillon and cook until tender, gradually add- 
ing more bouillon. >4 hour before well done, flour, vinegar, 
sugar are added, also salt and pepper. When they are cooked, 
add the parsley. If you like, you can put in a little summer 
savory. 

No. 45— GREEN STRING BEANS, PREPARED 
ANOTHER WAY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2% lbs. of fresh, green beans 1 pt. of milk 
3 qts. of water % pt. sweet cream 

% lb. of butter Salt to taste 

2 tbsps. of salt 1 pinch of pepper 

2 tbsps. of flour 1 tbsp. of minced parsley 

Preparation : The beans are prepared as given under No. 
44, and boiled until tender in salt water, which is thep drained 
ofif. The butter is melted, flour stirred in and the milk added. 
This dressing is cooked a few minutes, stirring constantly, and 
the beans put into it. Season with salt and pepper, stew 5 
minutes and add the minced parsley. 

Remarks: The dressing for the beans must not be too 
thick. 

No. 46— SALTED GREEN BEANS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2% lbs. of salted beans 1 pt. of milk 

3 qts. of water ' % pt. of cream 
% lb. of butter 1 pinch of pepper 
2 tbsps. of fiDnr 1 tbsp. of parsley 

Preparation: Soak the beans in water for a few hours, 
drain and put over the fire in boiling water. Then boil until 
tender, drain and prepare the beans as given under No. 44 or 
No. 45. 



— 199 — 

Remarks: The salted beans need more time to cook than 
fresh beans and when seasoning, be careful not to add too 
much salt. 

No. 47— CANNED' GREEN BEANS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 qt. can of green l)eans % pt. of bouillon 

M.0 lb. of butter 1 pinch of pepper and one of salt 

1% tbsps. of flour 1 tsp. of finely chopped parsley 

Preparation : The water is poured off the beans, butter is 
melted and the beans put into it and cooked slowly for 15 min- 
utes. Flour is lightly stirred in, the bouillon poured in and 
the beans stewed in it a little while, then seasoned with salt, 
pepper and the parsley. 

No. 48— CANNED WAX BEANS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 qt. can of beans % tbsp. of sugar 
Vlo lb. of butter Salt to taste 

1% tbsps. of flour 1 pinch of pepper 

% pt. of bouillon 1 tsp. of chopped parsley 

1 tbsp. of vinegar 

Preparation: Pour off the water, melt the butter and put 
the beans in to steep a little while. Then stir in the flour, add 
the bouillon, season with vinegar, sugar, salt and pepper and 
stew 15 minutes, then add the parsley. 

No. 49— FRESH WAX BEANS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 qts. of fresh beans % pt. of water 

3 qts. of water 3 tbsps. of vinegar 

2 tbsps. of salt Salt to taste 

% lb. of butter 1 pinch of pepper 

2% tbsps. of flour 2 yolks of eggs 

Preparation: The beans are strung and broken into 2 to 

3 pieces, washed and cooked until tender in boiling salt water. 
The butter is melted, the flour and water added. Boil a few 
minutes, stirring constantly, and season with salt, pepper and 
vinegar. Put the beans into this gravy, stew tihem a little, 
then stir in the yolks of eggs, but do not boil any more. 

No. 50— CANNED SWEET-SOUR BEANS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 qts. fresh, yellow beans % cup of vinegar 

3 qts. of water ^ cup of sugar 
2 tbsps. of salt 2 cloves 

1 cup of water 1 stick of cinnamon 

Preparation: The beans are strung, broken into pieces 



— 200 — 

and cooked until tender in boiling salt water. One cup of 
water mixed with vinegar, sugar, cloves, cinnamon, boiled and 
poured over the beans, from which the salt water has been 
well drained. Serve cold. 

No. 51— BEETS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 lbs. of beets 1 pt. of milk 

4 qts. of water Salt to taste 

%o lb. of butter 1 pinch of pepper 

2 tbsps. of flour 
Preparation: The beets are put over the fire in cold 
water and cooked until tender, then the water is drained off 
and the beets peeled and sliced. The butter is heated, the 
flour and the milk stirred in, then boiled, seasoned with salt 
and pepper, the beets put in and cooked a little while longer. 

No. 52— YOUNG ONIONS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of onions 2 tbsps. of flour 

3 qts. of water 1 pt. of milk 

2 tbsps. of salt Salt to taste 

% lb. of butter 1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: The onions are peeled and cooked until 
tender in boiling salt water, which is drained off when done. 
The butter is heated, the flour stirred in, stewed a little, milk 
added and cooked, stirring constantly. Lastly add the onions, 
season with salt and pepper, and simmer a few minutes. 



No. 53— STUFFED ONIONS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 large onions 1 tbsp. of flour 

2 qts. of water % pt. bouillon 

2 tbsps. of salt % tsp. of meat extract 

% lb. of fine meat filling Salt to taste 

2 tbsps. of chopped champignons 1 pinch of pepper 
1 tsp. of chopped truffles 4 tbsps. of red wine 

2 tbsps. of butter 

Preparation : The onions are peeled, scooped out, put in- 
to boiling salt water for a few minutes and then taken out and 
dried. The meat stuffing is mixed well with champignons and 
truffles, then carefully put into the onions. The inside of the 
onions is stewed in butter, the flour stirred in and then the. 
bouillon. Season with wine and meat extract and stew the 
stuffed onions in this gravy for 1 hour until they are brown. 

Strain the gravy and add salt and pepper. 



— 201 — 

No. 64— TOMATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 qt, of fresh or canned tomatoes Via lb. of butter 

2 cups of fine rolled crackers 1 pinch of salt and one of pepper 

Preparation: The tomatoes are sliced and put into a but- 
tered baking-dish in layers alternating with crackers, seasoned 
with butter, salt and pepper and baked in the oven i/^ hour, 
then served in the dish. 

No. 55— STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 nice, red tomatoes 1 pinch of pepper 

1 cup of grated rye bread Salt to taste 

Vio lb. of butter %, tsp. of grated onion 

1 tbsp. of chopped parsley 2 yolks of eggs 

Preparation: The tomatoes are wiped clean, a slice is 
cut off at the top, the pulp carefully taken out with a small 
spoon and rubbed through a fine sieve. Put the butter, grated 
bread and onions in a pan to cook, then add the tomato pulp, 
salt, pepper and parsley, stew it a little while, stir in the yolks 
of eggs and fill the tomatoes with this mass. Sprinkle with 
roll crumbs and butter, place these stuffed tomatoes in a but- 
tered baking pan and bake them in the oven J4 hour. 

No. 56— TOMATOES FILLED WITH MEAT. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 nice, red tomatoes Salt to taste 

% lb. fine chopped veal or 1 pinch of pepper 

sweetbreads 3 tbsps. of minced champignons 

1 yolk of egg 3 tbsps. of butter 

3 tbsps. of cream 

Preparation: Prepare the tomatoes as given under No. 
55. The butter is melted, the veal stewed in it, yolks of eggs, 
cream, champignons stirred in and seasoned with salt and pep- 
per, 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato pulp added and the whole mix- 
ture cooked a few minutes. Now fill the tomatoes with this, 
sprinkle with roll crumbs and butter, then place in a buttered 
baking pan and bake in the oven J^ hour. 

Remarks: You may omit the champignons. These toma- 
toes look very nice on the table and are served at parties. 

No. 57— STUFFED CUCUMBERS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 medium sized cucumbers 1 pinch of nutmeg 

1 lb. finely chopped veal 1 % tsps. finely chopped parsley 

% roll %o lb. of butter 

Salt to taste 2 eggs 

1 pinch pepper 



— 202 — 

For Stewing. 
Vs lb. of butter 1 pt. bouillon or gravy 

Preparation: The cucumbers are peeled and carefully 
scooped out. Mix the chopped veal with the soaked roll, stew 
it in the butter, add salt, pepper, nutmeg, eggs and parsley, 
cook 2 minutes and fill the cucumbers with this mixture. Melt 
the % lb. butter in a shallow pan, place the cucumbers in and 
gradually add the bouillon, and stew 3^ hour. Place the cu- 
cumbers carefully on a platter and serve very hot. 

No. 58— STEWED CUCUMBERS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 large cucumbers Salt to taste 

1 tbsp. of salt 4 tbsps. of vinegar 

6 tbsps. of sugar % cup of sugar 

4 tbsps. of wine vinegar % lb. of butter 

1 pinch of pepper 1 small onion 

1 qt. of bouillon 2 tbsps. of flour 

1 tsp. of meat extract 

Preparation: The cucumbers are peeled and cut in halves. 
The seeds are taken out and the cucumbers cut into equal 
parts, which are marinated for lyi 'hours in 4 tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of salt, 6 tablespoonfuls of sugar and 
a pinch of pepper. 

The bouillon is cooked with meat extract, vinegar, sugar, 
salt and pepper and the cucumbers put in to cook until tender. 
Then the butter is melted, the sliced onion and flour browned 
in it, and the cucumber liquor added. The cucumbers are put 
in and slowly stewed 1/4 hour until they are a shining brown 
color. Season the gravy to taste. 

Remarks: Preserved cucumbers are at once placed in the 
gravy and stewed ^ hour. 

No. 59— STUFFED ROOT CELERY OR CELERIAC. 

AU JUS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 medium sized roots of celery 1 pt. of gravy 

4 qts. of water % pt. of Madeira of red wine 
3 tbsps. of salt 1 yolk of egg 

l^ lb. of savory veal stuffing 

Preparation: The celery is cleaned well and peeled, then 
carefully scooped out and cooked in salt water for 30 minutes. 
Line with yolk of egg and stuff with meat stuffing. See prep- 
aration of Stuffed Veal, Chapter 3. The slice which had been 
cut from the top of the celery before this was scooped out, is 
tied on to the stuffed celery and this is put into a pot with the 



— 203 — 

gravy, mixed with Madeira or red wine and stewed slowly IV^ 
hours until tender, turning several times. Cut each celery in 
half, pour dressing over and serve. 

No. 60— "GARDI AND FINOCCI" AS VEGETABLES. 

This is a southern species of thistle and is prepared like 
Stuffed Root Celery, No. 59. You can prepare this vegetable 
without stuffing, by cooking it tender in salt water, and stew- 
ing a few minutes in a savory wine dressing. 

No- 61— MIXED OR LEIPZIG VEGETABLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. of asparagus 4 qts. of water 

1 small head of cauliflower 3 tbsps. of salt 
30 small, young carrots % lb. of butter 
% lb. of morels or fresh cham- 2 tbsps. of flour 

pignons Salt to taste 

12 crabs 1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: The asparagus is peeled and cut into 1% 
inch pieces, cauliflower is cleaned and broken into small roses, 
morels or fresh champignons brushed well. If you use morels, 
put tlhem over the fire in lukewarm water and let them get 
hot, stirring gently, then strain. Repeat this process until all 
sand is removed. Asparagus and cauliflower are cooked until 
tender in salt water. The carrots are scraped and stewed un- 
til tender in butter and ^4 Pt- of bouillon. The crabs are 
washed, brushed and cooked in boiling salt water, then the 
meat is picked out, the coral broken fine and stewed in 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter and 1 pt. of vegetable liquor from cauli- 
flower and asparagus. The flour is mixed with a little water 
and stirred in and all this is cooked 1/2 'hour, then seasoned 
with salt and pepper and strained. The crab sauce is added to 
the carrots, the asparagus, cauliflower, morels and crab meat 
added, heat it over the fire, put into a dish with a little butter 
over top and serve very hot. 

Remarks: This is a very fine dish and it may be pre- 
pared from canned vegetables. 

No. 62— CHAMPIGNONS. 

Quantity ior 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of fresh champignons % pt. of cream 

Vs lb. of good butter % pt. champignon liquor 

Salt to taste 2 tbsps. lemon juice 

1 tbsp. flour 1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: The freslh champignons must be hard and 
white. Remove the brown skin, trim off the roots and wash 



— 204 — 

them. The butter is heated and the champignons put in, sea- 
son with salt and pepper and gradually pour on 1/4 cup of 
water, stew until tender. Stir the flour with fhe cream, add to 
the mushrooms and stew a few minutes. 

Remarks : If you take canned champignons, take ^4: pt. of 
cream and ^4: pt- of champignon liquor. 



No. 63— CHAMPIGNON PUREE. 

The preparation is the same as given under No. 62. The 
champignons are chopped fine and while preparing them, add 
1/2 teaspoonful of meat extract. 

Remarks: May be served on toasted bread. 



No. 64— TRUFFLES IN BROWN DRESSING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of fresh truffles 1 wineglassful of Madeira or red 

% lb. of butter wine 

1 % tbsps. of flour Salt to taste 

1 pt. of strong bouillon 1 pinch of pepper 

1 tsp. of meat extract % tsp. lemon juice 

Preparation: The truffles are put into cold water so the 
dirt will dissolve, then brushed in lukewarm water. Put them 
on the fire with butter, gradually add the bouillon, cover the 
pot and cook slowly until tender. When done, take them out, 
peel them carefully and cut them up into 6 to 8 parts. The 
rest of the butter is browned, flour and the truffle peelings 
added, and the bouillon in which the truffles were boiled. Sea- 
son with meat extract, Madeira, salt, pepper, sugar and lemon 
juice. Cook a nice, brown dressing of this, strain, put the 
truffles in and stew a few minutes. .Serve on toast. 

Remarks: This may be used for stuffing. 



No. 65— TRUFFLE PUREE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1/3 lb. of truffles Salt to taste 

% pt. of good bouillon 1 pinch of pepper 

Vs lb. of butter % tsp. of sugar 

1 % tbsps. of flour ii tsp. of lemon juice 

5 tbsps. of Madeira or red wine % tsp. of meat extract 

Preparation: The truffles are cleaned and the dressing 
is prepared from the peelings of the truffles, according to No. 
64. The truffles are chopped very fine, put into the strained 
dressing and seasoned. Then put into shells or small porce- 
lain dishes or serve on cutlets or scrambled eggs. 



— 205 — 

No. 66— MORELS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of morels % pt. morel liquor 

1 piece of butter as large as an % cup of cream 

egg Salt to taste 

% tbsp. flour 1 pinch of pepper 

% tsp. of meat extract 1 tsp. of finely chopped parsley. 

Preparation: The morels are cleaned well and put on the 
fire with lukewarm water and let them get hot, stirring gently, 
then strain. Repeat this until all sand is removed. The last 
water is boiled down to % pt. The butter is browned with 
the flour, the morel liquor is added and the meat extract, and 
then cooked slowly for 15 minutes. Put in the cream and sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Now put the morels into the dress- 
ing, cook, put in a piece of butter and the parsley. 

This dish is fine with smoked salmon or scrambled eggs. 

Remarks: Canned or dried morels are prepared the same 
way. If you use canned morels, then utilize the liquor in the 
can. Dried morels are soaked in water for 3 to 3 hours. 



No. 67— MUSHROOMS. 
Edible Boletus. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of mushrooms % pt. of sour cream 

% lb. of butter Salt to taste 

% tbsp. of flour 1 pinch of pepper 

1 medium sized onion 1 tbsp. of parsley 

Preparation: Mushrooms must be firm, they are brushed 
and very dark ones only are peeled. The liglhter colored ones 
do not need to be peeled. They are cut up into equal pieces. 
The butter is heated, the mushroom pieces put in with the 
whole peeled onion and stewed for 15 to 20 minutes. The dish 
must be covered. Strew the flour on, stirring lightly, add the 
sour cream, ^4 teaspoonful of meat extract, salt and pepper, 
and lastly the parsley, stew 2 minutes and serve. 

No. 68— CHANTERELLES. 

Another Species of Mushrooms. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 % lbs. of chanterelles Salt to taste 

2 qts. of water 1 % tbsps. of flnely chopped 

2 tbsps. of salt parsley 

% lb. of butter 2 tbsps. of cream 

% tbsp. of flour 1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: The chanterelles are cleaned, washed, but 
not left in water; cook them 1 minute in 2 qts. of boiling salt 
water, drain in a colander. Heat the butter, put in the chan- 



—206— 

terelles with flour, salt and pepper and stew 2 minutes, then 
add the cream and parsley and serve at once. 

No. 69— OLIVES AS VEGETABLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
60 olives V4, tsp. of meat extract 

M, lb. of butter, scant Salt to taste 

1 tbsp. of flour 1 pinch of pepper 

1 pt. of bouillon % tsp. parsley 

% pt. of cream 

Preparation: The stones are taken out and the olives 
cooked tender in the bouillon ; to this add 1 tablespoonful of 
butter. The rest of the butter is melted, flour stirred in, then 
the olives, bouillon, cream and meat extract. Season with 
salt and pepper, stew for 15 minutes and add the chopped 

parsley. 

No. 70— STUFFED OLIVES. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
36 olives 4 tbsps. of cream 

V2 lb. of finely ground chicken M tsp. of lemon juice 
1 egg 1 tbsp. of butter 

Salt and pepper to taste V2 pt. of Madeira sauce 

Preparation: The preserved olives are scooped out and 
stuffed with cooked chicken. Which has been ground fine and 
mixed with egg, butter, salt, pepper and lemon juice. One- 
half pint of Madeira sauce is prepared. See under Gravies and 
Dressing, No. 25. The stuffed olives are put in and cooked 
until tender. 

No. 7,1— FILLED OR STUFFED OLIVES WITH 

CHAMPIGNONS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

The preparation is the same as given under No. 10. One- 
half pound of champignons, which have been cooked until 
tender in butter, are stirred into the dressing. 

Remarks: This is a fine dish to serve at parties. 

No. 72— ROASTED CHESTNUTS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. of sweet chestnuts % lb. of fresh butter 

1 lb. of salt 
Preparation : The skins are rubbed off and the chestnuts 
slit with a sharp knife. Into an iron frying pan or spider put 
1/3 of the salt, place the chestnuts on the salt in one layer and 
cover them with the rest of the salt. Put tlhe pan into a medi- 
um hot oven and bake them scarcely % hour, then take them 
out and place them on a napkin to eat with fresh butter. 



— 207 — 

No. 73— CHESTNUT PUREE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% lbs. of chestnuts 4 tbsps. of red wine 

% lb. of butter Salt to taste 

1 tbsp. of flour 1 pinch of pepper 

% pt. of bouillon 1 tbsp. of sugar 

% pt. of cream 1 tsp. of chopped parsley 

Preparation: The clhestnuts are taken out' of the outer 
shell, then hot water poured on and the inner skin pulled off. 
Cook them in bouillon until tender and strain. Heat the but- 
ter, stir in the flour, stew a few minutes, add the chestnuts 
and stir in cream, red wine, salt, pepper, sugar and parsley. 
Let it get hot, stirring briskly, arrange mound-shaped and 
serve. 



No. 74— FRIED CHESTNUTS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. of chestnuts 1 pinch of salt 

%: lb. of butter 1 tbsp. fine sugar 

Preparation: Shell the chestnuts, scald them and pull off 
the inner skin. Bro-^n the butter and after the chestnuts are 
cooked slightly in water, put them into the hot butter, add 
salt and sugar and fry them light brown, shaking frequently. 
Serve them with roast goose stuffing or as a garnish with 
cabbage. 



-208 — 



CHAPTEE 13. 

SALADS. 



The various preparations of green salads, potato salads, 
vegetable salads and meat salads. 

Green salads such as head lettuce, endive, romaine and 
escariol salads are pleasing and refreshing with meats and fish. 

Salads must be prepared carefully. They may be servea 
with every meal. 

Good oil and good vinegar or lemon juice are essentials 
for preparing salads. 

No. 1— GREEN LETTUCE. 
Head Lettuce, Endive Lettuce. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 heads of lettuce % tsp. of salt 

% cup of fine oil 1 pinch of pepper 

% cup of vinegar 1 tsp. of minced parsley 

Preparation: The Ihead lettuce is picked over, the ribs 
cut through, also the largest leaves, then washed well and 
dried. The oil, vinegar or lemon juice, salt and pepper are 
mixed well and poured over the lettuce. Mix thoroughly with 

two spoons. 

; No. 2— GREEN LETTUCE WITH EGG DRESSING. 
Head Lettuce, Endive, Romaine, Escariol Lettuce. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 heads of lettuce . % tsp. salt 

2 yolks of eggs 1 pinch of pepper 

% cup of cream % tsp. of sugar 

Juice of % lemon 
Preparation: The lettuce is picked over, washed and 
drained. The yolks of eggs are thoroughly beaten with cream, 
then vinegar stirred in slowly and salt, pepper and sugar 
added. Pour over the lettuce, mix well with two spoons, and 

serve at once. ■- 

No. 3— GREEN LETTUCE WITH MAYONNAISE 
DRESSING. 
Head, Endive, Escariol Lettuce. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 heads of lettuce % tsp. of mustard 

2 yolks of eggs % tsp. of salt 

4 tbsps. of sour cream 1 pinch of white pepper 

2 tbsps. of vinegar 1 pinch of sugar 

Preparation: The lettuce is prepared as before mentioned. 



—209 — 
Yolks of eggs, cream, vinegar, mustard, salt, pepper and sugar 
are mixed well and cooked in a double boiler until thick, stir- 
ring constantly, cooled and mixed with the lettuce. 

No. 4— GREEN LETTUCE WITH BACON. 
Head, Endive Lettuce. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 heads of lettuce 1 pinch of pepper 
% lb. of bacon 1 pinch of sugar 
5 tbsps. of vinegar % tsp. of mustard 
V2 tsp. of salt 
Preparation: Prepare the lettuce as before. The bacon 
is cut into small cubes and fried to a nice yellow color; add 
vinegar, salt, pepper, sugar and mustard, jool and add the let- 
tuce, stirring lightly. 

No. 5— GREEN LETTUCE PREPARED SWEET. 

Head Lettuce. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 heads of lettuce Va cup of vinegar 

1 egg % tsp. of salt 

3 tbsps. of sugar 1 pinch of pepper 

% cup of cream 

Preparation: Prepare the lettuce as before. The w<hole 
egg is beaten with sugar, cream, vinegar, salt and pepper and 
mixed well with the lettuce. 

Remarks : Three tablespoonfuls of oil may be used. 

No. 6— POTATO SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

4 lbs. of potatoes Salt to taste 

% cup of good oil % tsp. of pepper 

% cup of vinegar 1 tsp. finely sliced onions 

Vz cup of warm bouillon or water 
Preparation: The potatoes should be medium sized and 
not mealy. They are boiled in the jackets, peeled and sliced. 
The vinegar and bouillon are poured over while potatoes are 
still warm, add the oil, salt, pepper and onions and mix well, 
being careful not to break the potatoes. This salad must be 
prepared one hour before serving. Taste before serving and 
add more seasoning if necessary. 

No. 7— POTATO SALAD WITH SPICED DRESSING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of potatoes 1 tsp. of salt 

4 yolks of eggs % tsp. of red pepper 

1 large cup of milk 1 % tsps. of sugar 
% large cup of vinegar 1 tsp. of flour 

2 mustardspoonfuls of mustard Piece of butter, the size of an egg 

Preparation: The potatoes are prepared as given under 



— 210 — 

No. 6. Yolks of eggs, milk, vinegar, mustard, salt, pepper, 
sugar, flour and butter are mixed well and cooked in double 
boiler until thick, stirring constantly. Mix the sliced potatoes 
with this dressing. 

No. 8— POTATO SALAD WITH SOUR CREAM. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of potatoes 1 tbsp. of sugar 

1 pt. thick, sour cream % tbsp. of salt 

V4, cup of vinegar 1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: Prepare the potatoes as in No. 6. The cream, 
vinegar, sugar, salt and pepper are put on the sliced potatoes 
and mixed well. Remarks : Nos. 7 and 8 are fine salads. 



No. 9— POTATO SALAD WITH BACON. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of potatoes % tbsps. of salt 

% lb. of bacon 1 tbsp. of finely sliced onions 

% cup of vinegar 1 pinch of pepper 

% cup of bouillon or water 
Preparation: Prepare the potatoes as in No. 6. Cut the 
bacon into small dice, fry to a light yellow color, add the 
onions and fry a few minutes, then add bouillon, vinegar, salt, 
pepper and let come to a boil. Pour over the sliced potatoes. 

No. 10— CUCUMBER SALAD. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 large cucumbers 4 tbsps. of vinegar 
% tbsp. of salt 1 pinch of pepper 

3 tbsps. of oil 1 tsp. of finely chopped parsley 

Preparation: The cucumbers are peeled and sliced very 
thin, salted and left standing for a while. Drain well, add oil, 
vinegar, pepper, parsley and mix well. 

No. 11— SWEET CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 large cucumbers 1 pinch of pepper 

1 egg % tbsp. of salt, for salting 

% cup of cream 1 tsp. of finely chopped parsley 

3 tbsps. of sugar 
Preparation : The cucumbers are prepared as given under 
No. 10. Egg, cream, vinegar, sugar, pepper, parsley, are 
beaten well and mixed with the cucumbers. 



No. 12— CUCUMBER SALAD WITH SOUR CREAM. 

2 large cucumbers V2 pt. thick sour cream 

% tbsp. of salt, for salting 2 tbsps. of vinegar 

1 pinch of pepper 
Preparation: The cucumbers are prepared as given un- 
der No. 10 and mixed well with cream, vinegar and pepper. 
They are very good. 



—211— 

No. 13— CUCUMBERS AND HEAD LETTUCE MIXED. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 large cucumber 2 tbsps. of lemon juice 

1 head of green lettuce 1 pinch of salt 

% pt. of thick, sour cream 1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: The lettuce and cucumber are prepared as 
before given under No. 1 and No. 10. The cucumber slices 
are mixed well with cream, vinegar, pepper, salt and mixed 
lightly with the green lettuce. 

No. 14— TOMATO SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of tomatoes % tsp. of onion, sliced fine 

% cup of fine oil 1 tsp. of finely chopped parsley 
1 tsp. of salt % cup of vinegar 
1 pinch of pepper 
Preparation: The tomatoes are scalded, skinned, sliced 
and mixed well with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, onion and 
parsley. 

No. 15— TOMATO SALAD WITH MAYONNAISE 
DRESSING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
B nice medium sized tomatoes % tsp. of mustard 
1 head lettuce % tsp. of salt 

3 yolks of eggs 1 pinch of pepper 
% cup of very fine oil Juice of 1 lemon 

Vi cup of thick, sweet cream 

Preparation: The tomatoes are scalded, skinned and 
placed on ice. The yolks of eggs are mixed with oil, which 
is put in a few drops at a time ; add cream, lemon juice, pep- 
per, salt and mustard. The mayonnaise dressing must be 
thick. The head lettuce is treated as under No. 1, placed on 
salad plates and the cold tomatoes put on them, the mayon- 
naise dressing poured over the tomatoes. • 

Remarks: This is a fine salad. 



No. 16— TOMATO SALAD WITH COOKED 
MAYONNAISE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
€ medium sized tomatoes Vz tsp. of mustard 

3 yolks of eggs 1 pinch of salt 

€ tbsps. of sour cream 1 pinch of white pepper 

2 — 3 tbsps. of vinegar 1 pinch of sugar 

Preparation: Preparation is the same as given under No. 
15. Yolks of eggs, cream, vinegar, mustard, salt, pepper and 



— 212 — 

sugar are mixed well and cooked in the double boiler until 
thick, stirring constantly. Let it get cold and pour over the 
whole tomatoes. The tomatoes may be garnished with green 
lettuce as under No. 15. 

No. 17— ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of asparagus 2 tbsps. of good vinegar 

2 qts. of water 1 pinch of salt 

1 tbsp. of salt 1 pinch of pepper 

4 tbsps. of fine oil 

Preparation: The asparagus are peeled, cut into equal 
pieces or left whole and boiled until tender in boiling water. 
When cold, mix tlhem with the oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. 



No. 18— ASPARAGUS SALAD WITH MAYONNAISE. 

Preparation and ingredients are the same as given under 
No. 17. The asparagus is covered with mayonnaise dressing. 
See No. 16, Cooked Mayonnaise Dressing for Tomato Salad. 



No. 19— CAULIFLOWER SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 large cauliflower 4 tbsps. of vinegar 

2 qts. of water 1 pinch of pepper 
1 tbsp. of salt 1 pinch of salt 

4 tbsps. of oil 

Preparation: The cauliflower is broken up into roses, 
boiled until tender but not too soft, in boiling salt water, 
drained and mixed with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. 



No. 20— CAULIFLOWER WITH COOKED 
MAYONNAISE. 

• Preparation and ingredients are the same as given under 
No. 19.. Instead of the other dressing use cooked mayonnaise 

dressing. See No. 16. • 

No. 21— CARROT SALAD. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of small, young carrots % cup of vinegar 

2 qts. of water 1 pinch of salt 

% tbsp. of salt 1 pinch of pepper 

% cup of fine oil 

Preparation : The carrots are scraped, cut up into equally 
large pieces and cooked until tender in salt water, drained and 
mixed well with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. 



— 213— 

No. 22— BEAN SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of yellow string beans 1 tsp. of grated onion 

3 qts. of water 1 pinch of salt 

1 tbsp. of salt Pepper 

^, cup of oil 1 tbsp. of chopped parsley or 

Yi cup of vinegar chives 

Preparation: The beans are strung, broken into pieces, 
boiled until tender in salt water, drained, and while still warm, 
mixed with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, onion and parsley. It 
must not be too dry. 

No. 23— ROOT CELERY OR CELERIAC SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 large celery-roots 6 tbsps. of vinegar 

3 qts. of water 1 pinch of salt 
1 tbsp. of salt Pepper 

5 tbsps. of oil % Pt- of cold bouillon 

Preparation: The celery is washed well, cooked until 
tender in 3 qts. of water, peeled, sliced and while still luke- 
warm, mixed with vinegar, oil, salt, pepper, bouillon, then 
covered and left standing for 1 hour before serving, i^ cup 
of sugar may be mixed with it. 



No. 24^ROOT CELERY SALAD MIXED WITH PO- 
TATO SALAD WITH MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% lbs. of potatoes V2 tsp. of mustard 

1 celery-root % tsp. of pepper 

4 yolks of eggs Salt to taste 

1 cup of cream 1 tsp. of sugar 

% cup of vinegar 

Preparation : The potatoes and celery are cleaned, cooked 
until tender, peeled and sliced thin. Yolks of eggs, cream, 
vinegar, mustard, pepper, salt and sugar are mixed well and 
cooked in double boiler until thick, stirring constantly. This 
dressing is mixed with warm potatoes and celery. 



No. 25— CELERY SALAD WITH MAYONNAISE 
DRESSING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 large celery-roots Vz portion of mayonnaise dressing 

Preparation : The celery is prepared according to No. 23. 
One-half of the portion of mayonnaise dressing is made ac- 
cording to No. 24 and mixed with the celery. 



—214— 

No. 26— BEAN SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of green or yellow beans % cup of bouillon 

3 qts. of water 1 tbsp. of finely chopped parsley 
2 tbsps. of salt % tsp. of finely chopped onion 
% cup of fine oil Salt to taste 

% cup of vinegar Pepper 

Preparation: The beans are strung, broken into 3 pieces, 
cooked until tender in boiling water, drained and mixed with 
oil, vinegar, bouillon, parsley, onion, salt and pepper. This 
salad must be prepared a few hours before serving and should 
be kept covered until served. 

No. 27— MIXED SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of asparagus ^4 cup of fine oil 

1 small head of cauliflower % cup of vinegar 

V2 small celery-root Salt to tastfe 

V4, lb. of green beans Pepper 

% lb. of yellow beans ^ tsp. grated onion 

5 potatoes 1 tbsp. of finely chopped summer 

6 young carrots savory 
Salt water 1 head lettuce 

Preparation : The vegetables are cleaned, cut up and each 
separately cooked until tender in salt water and drained. The 
potatoes are boiled until tender, peeled and cut. When the 
vegetables and potatoes are cold, mix with oil, vinegar, salt, 
pepper, onion, summer savory and parsley, being careful not 
to break the pieces. 

No. 28— FINE MIXED VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 portion of mayonnaise dressing 6 young carrots 
% cup of minced truffles and 4 boiled potatoes 

olives 1 small head of cauliflower 

% lb. smoked salmon broken into small roses 

6 sardines % lb. green beans 

% lb. asparagus % lb. yellow beans 

% small celery-root 1 head of green lettuce 

For Mayonnaise Dressing. 

4 yolks of eggs 1 pinch of white pepper 
1 cup of cream Salt to taste 

Juice of 1 lemon 4 tbsps. of fine oil 

% tsp. mustard 
Preparation : All the vegetables are cut into small pieces 
and boiled separately in salt water until tender, but not too 
soft. Tihe water is drained off and the vegetables mixed with 
the potatoes, truffles, salmon, sardines and olives, which have 
also been cut into pieces. 



— 215 — 

The mayonnaise dressing is made by stirring the 4 yolks 
of eggs into cream; add lemon juice, mustard, pepper and salt 
and cook in double boiler until thick, stirring constantly. Af- 
ter it has cooled off, stir in the oil. 

The salad is mixed carefully with one half of this dress- 
ing. The head lettuce leaves are picked off and placed into 
the salad dish, the salad piled up in the center of it and the 
rest of the dressing poured over. You may garnish it with 
olives. This is a very fine salad. 



No. 29— MIXED SALAD WITH MEAT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 head lettuce 1 apple, cut into pieces 

1 cup of prepared endive lettuce 2 sour pickles, cut into pieces 
% cup of wax beans, cut in % lb. boiled potatoes, cut into 

pieces pieces 

% cup of green cut beans 2 cups of meat, cut into pieces 

% cup of sliced radishes Salt to taste 

% cup of very small pearl 1 pinch of pepper 

onions % cup of fine oil 

% small cauliflower, cut into % cup of vinegar 

roses %, tsp. of mustard 

Preparation: The vegetables are all prepared according 
to No. 28. The meat may be beef, veal or poultry, which has 
been cooked or fried and is cut up like the vegetables, then 
mixed with these and vinegar, oil, pepper, salt and arranged 
on the leaves of the head lettuce. 

Remarks: This salad may be served with mayonnaise 
dressing as No. 28. 

No, 30—CHAMPIGNON SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lb. can of champignons or Juice of 1 lemon 

2 lbs. of fresh ones % tsp. of chopped parsley 

5 potatoes Salt to taste 

1 lb. of boiled sweetbreads 1 pinch of pepper 

1 cup sour cream 10 olives 

'V4, cup of fine oil 

Preparation : The larger dhampignons are cut into pieces, 
the smaller ones left whole. The potatoes are boiled until 
tender, peeled and cut into small dice. The sweetbreads are 
boiled in salt water, skinned and minced. All this is mixed 
with the sour cream, oil, lemon juice, salt and pepper and ar- 
ranged on the head lettuce leaves, strewn with parsley and 
garnished with olives. 



— 216 — 

No. 31— TRUFFLE SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of truffles % cup of bouillon 

1 lb. of salad potatoes Salt to taste 

3 hard boiled eggs 1 pinch of pepper 

% cup of fine oil 3 tbsps. of fine white wine 

% cup of vinegar 

Preparation: Preserved truffles are scraped and sliced 
fine, freslh ones are brushed well in much water, then put into 
a small pot with the bouillon and 2 tablespoonfuls of oil and 
cooked until tender, taken out of the bouillon, peeled and 
sliced. Into the water or bouillon in which the truffles had 
been cooked, put the rest of the oil, vinegar, salt and pepper 
to cook and pour it on the sliced potatoes. Add the sliced 
truffles and the dhopped hard boiled eggs and the white wine. 
Mix it all carefully, cover the dish and set aside for 3 hours 
before serving. 

Remarks: If you take canned truffles cook the bouillon 
with the truffle liquor and peelings for 15 minutes, strain it 
and mix it with the other ingredients. 



No. 32— COLD SLAW. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 small head of red or white 2 yolks of eggs 

cabbage Salt to taste 

2 qts. boiling water 1 pinch of pepper 
% cup of vinegar 3 tbsps. of oil 

1 cup of sour or sweet cream 

Preparation: Pick off the bad leaves and slice or cut the 
cabbage very thin, scald it 5 minutes and drain the water oflF 
through a colander. Mix it well with vinegar, cream, yolks 
of eggs, pepper, salt and oil. 



No. 33— BEEF SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

For preparation and ingredients for this salad look to No. 
24, Chapter 2, Beef salad. 

Remarks: Lamb and veal salad are prepared the same 
way. 

No. 34^RABBIT ROAST SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
For preparation and ingredients for this salad look to No. 
31, Seventh Chapter, Game. 



— 217 — 

No. 35— CHICKEN SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 chicken % tsp. of mustard 

3 qts. of water Salt to taste 
Salt to taste 1 pinch of pepper 

1 cup of cream % cup of sliced champignons 
% cup of vinegar % pt. sour whipped cream 

% cup of chicken broth 2 thsps. of sliced truffles 

4 yolks of eggs 1 bunch of stalk-celery 

Preparation: The chicken is well cleaned and cooked un- 
til tender in 2 qts. of water and salt. The skin is removed and 
the meat cut fine. The bouillon is boiled down and ^ cup of 
it poured on the meat. The cup of crearti, yolks of egg^s, vine- 
gar, mustard, pepper and salt are mixed well and cooked un- 
til thick, stirring constantly. This dressing is poured over 
the meat, the chopped champignons and truffles added and 
mixed with the rest or they may be omitted. Cover the salad 
and set it aside for one hour before serving. This salad may 
be made from any kind of poultry. You may add celery cut 
in small pieces. Lastly add the whipped cream. 

No. 36— HERRING SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
For preparation and ingredients see Qiapter 8, No. 47. 

No. 37— SALMON SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
For preparation and ingredients see Chapter 8, No. 7. 

No. 38— PIKE SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of pike % qt. thick cream 
2 qts. of boiling water 3 yolks of eggs 

1 tbsp. of salt 2 tsps. of mustard 

1 piece of butter the size of an 4 tbsps. of vinegar 

egg 2 tbsps. of fine oil 

1 medium sized onion Salt to taste 

1% tbsps. of flour 1 tbsp. of capers 

Preparation: The fish is scaled, dressed, washed, cooked 
until tender in salt water and set to simmer gently 15 min- 
utes. Remove the skin and bones, cut the meat into small 
pieces. Heat tihe butter and onion, but do not brown, stir in 
the flour, add the cream, stirring constantly, cook, add the 
yolks of eggs, but do not boil any longer. When the dress- 
ing is cold, add the vinegar, oil, mustard, capers and salt. Stir 
the dressing for 15 minutes more, pour over the fish and mix 
lightly. Take out the onion before adding the cream. 



—218 — 

No. 39— OYSTER OR CLAM SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
For preparation and ingredients see Fish, Chapter 8; No. 59. 



No. 40— LOBSTER SALAD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 lbs. of lobster 3 yolks of eggs 

3 tbsps. of vinegar Juice of Vz lemon 

2 tbsps. of oil 1 tsp. of capers 
Salt to taste % tsp. of mustard 
1 pinch of pepper % tsp. of sugar 

1 cup of cream 

Preparation: TKe lobster is cooked, cooled, the meat 
picked out and cut into small oblique pieces. Mix it with vine- 
gar, oil, salt and pepper. 

The cream, yolks of eggs, lemon juice, mustard and sugar 
are mixed well and cooked until thick, stirring briskly; then 
put in the capers. The head lettuce is prepared and the large 
leaves cut into smaller pieces. Now arrange on a platter one 
layer of lettuce and one of lobster salad, pour over some may- 
onnaise dressing and repeat 3 or 3 times until all is used up. 
Garnish the dislh or plate with radishes. It makes a fine salad. 
This salad may be mixed with mayonnaise dressing as in 
Chapter 10, No. 43. 

No. 41— FRUIT SALAD AS DESSERT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

3 oranges % pt. cognac-cherries 
3 bananas Sugar to taste 

V2 pineapple 1 pt. whipped cream 

% pt. strawberries 

Preparation: Oranges, pineapple, bananas are peeled and 
sliced. Strawberries are cleaned, the cherries are stoned, all 
this fruit mixed and whipped cream poured on in a glass dish. 
The whipped cream may be omitted. If you like you may 
mix 1/^ cup of Sherry wine in with it. 



No. 42— LETTUCE COMBINATION SALAD. 

Head lettuce 4 green onions 

4 medium sized tomatoes 6 radishes 

1 small cucumber % cup mayonnaise dressing 

2 tbsps. vinegar Roquefort cheese 

% tsp. Worcestershire Sauce 

Preparation: Line salad bowl with the crisped lettuce; 
peel and quarter the tomatoes; slice and crisp the cucumbers; 
slice the onions and radishes in very thin slices. Arrange the 



— 219 — 

vegetables on the lettuce ; mix the vinegar with the mayon- 
naise dressing and pour over the salad. A little Roquefort 
cheese crumbled and mixed with the dressing is fine. Excel- 
lent, served with steak 

No. 43— FRUIT SALAD DRESSING. 
Preparation : Take 1 cup boiled mayonnaise, a little pow- 
dered sugar, juice of an orange or a lemon, V2 pi^t of whipped 
cream. 

No. 44— FRUIT SALAD No. 1. 

2 apples 1 cup chopped walnuts 

1 small bunch celery 1 cup pineapple 

Preparation: Mix all the cut fruit with fruit salad dress- 
ing. 

No. 45— FRUIT SALAD No. 2. 

4 oranges % cup chopped nuts 

1 cup pineapple 2 cups cherries 

% cup shredded cocoanut 

Preparation: Mix all the cut fruit with the fruit salad 

dressing. 

No. 46— FRUIT SALAD No. 3. 
6 large peaches 3 bananas 

1 pt. strawberries % cup nuts 

Preparation: Mix all the cut fruit with the fruit salad 

dressing. 

No. 47— FRUIT SALAD No. 4. 
1 lb. dates 1 cup chopped celery 

1 cup chopped apples 3 sliced oranges 

Preparation: Mix all the cut fruit with the fruit salad 
dressing. 




—220 — 

CHAPTEE 14. 

EGGS. 



The preparation of eggs. Eggs are a valuable food and 
indispensable in the kitchen. Some dishes cannot be prepared 
without eggs. 

Eggs can be tested as to their freshness in a basin with 
% pt. of water mixed with a tablespoonful of salt. Fresh 
eggs sink to the bottom, others float on top. 

To preserve eggs for the winter, put them into salt, so 
that they do not touch and are covered well. Use a stone jar 
for this purpose and cover it. 

No. 1— SOFT BOILED EGGS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
12 eggs 3 qts. of water 

Preparation: The eggs are washed well, then carefully- 
put into boiling water with a spoon and cooked 3 minutes. 
Take from the stove and let stand 1 more minute. 



No. 2— HARD BOILED EGGS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
12 eggs 3 qts. of water 

Preparation : The eggs are washed well and carefully put 
into boiling water to boil 20 minutes. These hard boiled eggs 
are easily digested. 

No. 3— HARD BOILED EGGS FOR GARNISHING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 — 5 eggs 2 qts. of water 

Preparation: The eggs are boiled 20 minutes in 2 qts. of 
boiling water, then shelled and either sliced or quartered and 
used for garnishing spinage and ragout. 

No. 4^FRIED EGGS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
12 eggs Salt and pepper 

1 tbsp. of butter 

Preparation: The butter is heated in a clean spider and 
each egg carefully put in and fried until the white around 
the yolk has become opaque or firm. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and take out with a cake turner, place on platter and 
garnish with parsley. 



—221— 

No. 5— POACHED EGGS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
12 eggs 1 tsp. of vinegar 

1 % qts. of water 6 slices of toast 

Salt to taste 
Preparation: Add salt and vinegar to the water, boil it 
and put each egg in on a ladle, hold it there until the white 
has become firm, then put it on a skimmer to let the water 
drip off, place it on the ^yarm buttered toast and put into 
oven until all eggs are poached. 

No. 6— FRIED EGGS IN TOMATO SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
10 — 12 eggs 1 cup of fine oil 

Tomato Sauce or Dressing. 
6 very ripe tomatoes 1 tsp. of sugar 

% lb. of raw ham 1 tbsp. of butter 

Salt to taste 1 tbsp. of flour 

1 pinch of pepper Vt medium sized onion 

Preparation: The tomatoes are sliced and the ham cut 
into small pieces. Melt the butter, stew the sliced onion and 
ham in it for 10 minutes, then stir in the flour, 1 pt. of water, 
tomatoes, salt, pepper and sugar and cook 14 hour, then strain 
pirough a fine sieve. Sprinkle each egg with salt and pepper 
and fry in the salad oil, which should be very hot. Tip the 
pan or dish a little so the oil covers the egg. When the white 
of egg is firm, take it out and put it into the hot tomato dress- 
ing which is set where it will remain hot. 

No. 7— BOILED EGGS IN BRINE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
€ eggs % lb. of salt 2 qts. of water 

Preparation: The eggs are boiled five minutes in boil- 
ing water. If you wish them hard, cook them 15 minutes, then 
crush the points of the egg shells and put the eggs into 2 qts. 

of salt water. 

No. 8— BRINE EGGS IN CREAM SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
■6 eggs 1 pt. cream 

% lb. of salt Juice of % lemon, or 

2 qts. of water 2 tbsps. of vinegar 
2 tbsps. of butter Salt to taste 

1 % tbsps. of flour 1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation: The eggs are boiled 15 minutes, the shells 
crushed and the eggs placed into strong salt water for 4 hours. 
The butter is heated, flour stirred in, cream, lemon juice, 
salt and pepper added and this cooked, stirring continually. 



— 222 — 

Shell the eggs, quarter them, heat them in the gravy and 
serve very hot. 

No. 9— SCRAMBLiED EGGS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
10 eggs % tsp. of salt 

V4, cup of milk 1 tbsp. of butter 

Preparation: Beat the eggs well into milk and salt for 5 
minutes. Heat the butter in a pan, pour in the mixture of 
egg and milk and slowly stirring them, let them get firm, then 
serve on a hot platter. 

No. lO^SCRAMBLED EGG PANCAKE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
10 eggs V4, tsp. of salt. 1 tbsp. of butter 

Preparation: Beat the eggs in a dish 5 minutes, adding 
salt. Heat the butter in a broad pan or spider, pour in the 
eggs and let them get firm over a slow fire. Lift witih a knife 
once or twice and carefully slip on a hot platter to serve. 

No. 11— SCRAMBLED EGGS, ENGLISH STYLE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
10 eggs Salt 

3 tbsps. of finely chopped 1 pinch of white pepper 

champignons 1 tbsp. of butter 

% cup of cream 

Preparation: The eggs are beaten 5 minutes with cream, 
salt, pepper, then champignons added. The butter is heated 
in a pan, the eggs poured in and stirring gently, let them get 
firm, then serve on a hot platter. 

No. 12— SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH RED HERRING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 red herrings 1 pinch of pepper 

6 eggs 2 tbsps. of butter 

1 pinch of salt 
Preparation: The herrings are skinned and the bones re- 
moved from them, then stewed in the hot butter. Eggs, salt 
and pepper are well beaten and poured over the fish. Let the 
eggs get firm and serve on a hot platter. 

No. 13— SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH CHIVES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
10 eggs % tsp. salt 

2 tbsps. of chives 1 pinch of white pepper 

% cup of milk 
Preparation: The preparation is the same as No. 9. The 
chives are strewn on or mixed in wlhile baking. 



— 223 — 

No. 14— STUFFED EGGS, (DEVILED EGGS). 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

6 eggs 1 tsp. of mustard 

1 tbsp. of butter 1 pinch of pepper 

% tsp. finely cliopped parsley 1 pinch of sugar 
1 tsp. chopped capers 1 tsp. of lemon juice 

^ tsp. of salt 

Preparation: The eggs are cooked 15 minutes, cooled, 
peeled, cut into halves, the yolk taken out and mixed well 
with butter, parsley, capers, salt, pepper, sugar, lemon juice 
and mustard and put back into the whites of the eggs. Place 
lettuce leaves on a platter, garnish with sardines and put the 
stuffed eggs on. 



No. 15— ANOTHER FORM OF STUFFED EGGS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

8 eggs Vi tsp. of salt 

% lb. of caviar 1 pinch of pepper 

12 crab tails 2 tbsps. of cream or bouillon 

2 tbsps. of oil 1 Vz layers of white gelatine 

1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

Preparation: The eggs are cooked 15 minutes, cooled, the 
top carefully cut off and the inside carefully scooped out with 
a small spoon, so the shell is not destroyed or broken. The 
white of egg is chopped fine, the yolk stirred with oil, which 
is put in by drops, mixed with lemon juice, salt, pepper, sugar, 
cream. The gelatine is dissolved in a tablespoonful of warm 
water, strained and also stirred in with the yolk mixture. The 
crab tails are cut into small pieces. The caviar is poured into 
a sieve and cold water poured on plentifully, then drained off. 
Now fill each egg with a little dressing, then crab meat, then 
chopped white of egg, dressing and caviar; repeat this until 
the egg is filled. Re-place the tip of the egg and put Uhe eggs 
on ice or prepare them the day before serving, then no ice is 
needed. Garnish with lettuce. 



— 224— 

CHAPTER 15. 

Omelets, Pancakes, Waffles, Noodles 
and Pie. 



The Various Preparations of Omelets, Pancakes, Waffles, 

Noodles, as Sweet Pastry cind Small Side-dishes. 

PIES. 



No. 1— OMELET FOR BREAKFAST. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
10 eggs 1 tbsp. butter 

4 tbsps. of cream or milk 1% tsps. of flour 

M, tsp. salt 

Preparation: The yolks of 10 eggs are beaten 3 minutes 
with cream, flour, salt. The beaten whites are stirred in light- 
ly. A large round spider is heated, the butter melted in it, 
the egg batter poured in and baked 1 minute on the stove, 
then put into the oven for 5 minutes. The omelet must be a 
nice yellow color ; do not turn it over. Serve on a hot platter. 



No. 2— SWEET OMELET AS DESSERT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
S eggs 1 tbsp. of butter 

3 tbsps. of milk or cream % glass jelly or preserves 

% tsp. of salt Sugar to sprinkle 

1 tsp. of flour 

Preparation : The preparation is the same as under No. 1, 
also the baking. When the omelet is done, put jelly or pre- 
serves on one-half of it and fold the other half over to cover 
it. Sprinkle sugar over and serve at once. 



No. 3— ASPARAGUS OMELET. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
8 eggs 1 lb. canned csparagus or 

3 tbsps. of cream or milk cooked fresh ones 

% tsp. of salt 1 tbsp. of butter 

1 tsp. of flour 

The preparation is the same as No. 1. The asparagus 
pieces are mixed into the batter and baked the same as No. 1. 
Serve at once. 



— 22S — 

No. 4^PEA OMELET. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
8 eggs 1 tsp. of flour 

3 tbsps. of cream or milk % pt. can of fine peas 
% tsp. of salt 1 tbsp. of butter 

Preparation: The water is drained from the peas. Beat 
the yolks, cream, flour and salt 3 minutes and stir in the peas 
and the beaten whites of eggs. Bake as given under No. 1 

and serve at once. 

No. 5— OMELET WITH PARMESAN CHEESE OR 
OYSTERS. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
10 eggs 2 tbsps. of Parmesan cheese 

4 tbsps. of cream or milk % lb. of butter 

% tsp. of salt 1 cup of roast gravy 

1 pinch of pepper 

Preparation : Eggs, cream, salt, pepper are beaten 5 min- 
utes and the melted butter stirred in. A broad spider is heated 
with a little butter, the omelet batter poured in, the pan shaken 
to and fro until the batter is baked. Then slip the omelet 
carefully on a hot platter, sprinkle with cheese, roll it up, 
pour a little gravy over and serve at once. Stewed oysters 
may be rolled in the omelets. 

No. &— OMELETS WITH MEAT OR CHAMPIGNONS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
8 eggs % lb. of fresh butter 

Vi cup of cream 1 portion of champignon puree or 

1 tsp. of salt 1 portion of veal hash 

1 pinch of pepper 1 tbsp. of Parmesan cheese. 

Preparation: Preparation and baking are the same as 
given under No. 5, Omelet With Cheese. When the omelet 
is done, cover it well with champignon puree, (see Chapter 11, 
No. 63,) roll up the omelet, sprinkle it with cheese and serve 
at once. Remarks : Pour a cup of gravy over the omelet. 

No. 7— WHIPPED CREAM OMELET. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 fresh eggs % tsp. of salt 

1 pt. of whipped cream Scant % cup of fresh butter 

V2 cup of flour 
Prepsiration : Yolks of eggs, flour and salt are mixed well 
with the beaten whites of eggs and the cream. Melt the but- 
ter in a broad spider, pour in the omelet batter and bake in 
medium hot oven 10 minutes until golden yellow. 

Remarks: The omelet may be sprinkled with Parmesan 
cheese. 



—226— 

No. 8— WHIPPED CREAM OMELET AS DESSERT. 

Prepare the omelet No. 7, fill it with jelly or preserves 
and serve a fruit sauce with it. 



No. 9— WHIPPED CREAM OMELET WITH FROSTING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 fresh eggs % lb. of sugar 

1 pt. whipped cream % cup of butter 

% cup of flour 1 cup of strawberry or plum 

% tsp. of salt marmalade 

Frosting. 
6 whites of eggs Fruit for garnishing 

% lb. of sugar 

Preparation: Yolks of eggs, flour, salt and sugar are 
mixed well. Add tihe beaten whites of eggs and the whipped 
cream. The butter is heated in a broad spider, the omelet 
batter poured in and baked in medium hot oven 10 to 13 min- 
utes until golden yellow. When done, spread it with plum, 
prune, strawberry or apricot marmalade. 

Beat the 6 whites of eggs to a stiff froth, stir into it the 
1/^ pound of sugar, then put into a cornucopia from which tihe 
point has been cut off. Now press the frosting through the 
opening and make figures on the omelet, put it into the oven 
for 15 minutes until the frosting is of a light yellow color. 
When done, serve on a warm platter and garnish with 
sugared fruit. Serve at once. 

Remarks: The frosting mus,t be ready when the omelet 
is taken out of the oven the first time. Cover it with fruit 
marmalade and the figures or designs of frosting and finish 
baking it in the oven. 

No. 10— PANCAKES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 eggs 1 Vi tsps. baling powder 

% pt. of milk % tsp. of salt 

1 cup of flour Butter or lard for baking 

Preparation: Yolks of eggs, milk, flour and salt are 
mixed well with beaten whites of eggs and lastly the baking 
powder. Heat the butter or lard in a small pan or spider, put 
in 2 tablespoonfuls of batter and bake it to a nice color. When 
baked on one side, turn the pancakes and bake on the other 
side. Remarks : If you use a large spider, put in 3 to 3 pan- 
cakes and bake them at once. 



Potato Pancakes. 

For preparation see No. 17, Qiapter 11, Potato Pancakes. 



— 227 — 

No. 11— FILLED PANCAKES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 eggs Butter for baking 

% pt. of milk Jelly or fruit marmalade for 

% cup of flour stuffing 

% tsp. of salt Sugar and cinnamon to sprinkle 

1 tbsp. of sugar 
Preparation: The eggs are beaten 5 minutes with milk, 
flour, sugar and salt. Heat a large spider and put in the but- 
ter, then 4 to 5 tablespoonfuls of pancake batter and bake 
until golden yellow on both sides. Spread with the jelly or 
marmalade, roll up the pancake, place it on a platter and 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. This recipe will make 6 
pancakes. They must be baked very thin. 

No. 12— WAFFLES. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% qt. of flour 4 tbsps. of melted butter 

3 eggs % tsp. of baking powder 

IVi cups of milk 
Preparation: Flour, yolks of eggs, milk, butter and salt 
are stirred well with beaten whites of eggs and baking 
powder. 

Grease a waffle iron, put in 2 to 3 tablespoonfuls of batter 
and bake the waffles to a nice brown color, turning it to bake 
on both sides. Serve at once. 



No, 13— ANOTHER FORM OF WAFFLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 eggs 2% cups of flour 

2 cups of sour milk % tsp. of soda 

2 tbsps. of sour cream Lard for baking 

Preparation: The 4 yolks of eggs, milk, cream, flour, are 
mixed well and the soda dissolved in 1 tablespoonful of milk 
stirred in; add t)he beaten whites of eggs and bake according 

to No. 12. 

No. 14^SAN1>-CAKE WAFFLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of butter % lb. of corn starch 

4 eggs "%, tbsp. of grated lemon peel 

% lb. of sugar Lard for baking 

ii lb. of fine flour Vanilla sugar to sprinkle over 

Preparation: The butter is washed so it does not con- 
tain any salt, then creamed. Add the eggs, sugar, flour and 
lemon and bake the batter in a waffle iron. Put 1/2 teaspoon- 
ful of lard on each half of the iron, then put in three table- 
spoonfuls of batter, close the iron and bake 8 minutes, turn- 
ing it to bake on both sides. Sprinkle with vanilla sugar. 



— 228 — 

No. 15— YiEAST WAFFLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of butter % pt. of milk or cream 

4 eggs 1 — 2 cents worth of yeast 

% cup of sugar % lb. of flour 

% grated lemon peel Lard for baking 

1 pinch of nutmeg 
Preparation: Cream t'he butter, stir in eggs, sugar, lemon 
peel, nutmeg. The yeast is dissolved in the cream which has 
been warmed, stirred into the mixture, then flour added to 
make a stiff batter. Set to rise in a warm place. Grease the 
waffle iron, put in 3 tablespoonfuls of batter, close the iron 
and bake the waffles light brown, turning the iron to bake on 
both sides. Waffles must be baked and served quickly, be- 
cause they are apt to lose their crispness and become tough. 
When serving, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. 

No. 16— LEMON PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of fresh, very cold butter Vz glass of very cold water 
1 Vz cups of flour 
For the Filling. 

1 large cup of sugar 1 large cup of boiling water 

2 tbsps. of flour 2 tbsps. of boiling water 
Juice of one large lemon 2 yolks of eggs 

1 . small lemon peel 1 egg 

For Frosting. 
2 whites of eggs 6 tbsps. of sugar 

Preparation: The II/2 cups of flour are put into a dish, 
tihe hard butter cut into it and rubbed, not kneaded; gradual- 
ly add y2 glass of cold water, work lightly, roll it out and lina 
a pie tin with the paste, making a high rim. Then bake it in 
oven and prepare the filling. Mix the sugar with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of flour, lemon juice, grated lemon rind and hot 
water and boil 1 minute, stirring constantly, then cool and mix 
in the 2 yolks and one whole egg. Put this filling into the 
baked crust and set aside for a few minutes to thicken. The 
frosting is made by beating the 2 whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth, stir in the 6 tablespoonfuls of sugar, cover the pie fill- 
ing with it and put back into the oven and bake to a light 
brown color. 

No. 17— APPLE PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of butter % glass of water 

1 >^ cups of flour 



—229— 

For the Filling. 
4 medium sized sour apples % cup of sugar 

For Frosting. 
2 eggs 2 tbsps. ol sugar 

% cup of cream % tsp. of cinnamon 

Preparation: The paste is prepared as given under No. 
16. The apples are peeled, cored, sliced, placed into a pie tin 
lined with paste, sugar strewn over and baked in oven. 

The frosting is then made by beating the 3 yolks of eggs 
with cream, sugar, cinnamon and the beaten whites. When 
the apples in the pie are done, pour on the frosting and put 
back into the oven until the frosting turns a light brown color. 
Apple pie must be served warm. 

No. 18— ANOTHER KIND OF APPLE PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1/3 lb. of cold butter % glass of cold water 

3 cups of flour 
For the Filling. 
4 medium sized apples % tsp. of cinnamon 

% cup of sugar % glass -white wine 

Preparation: The paste is prepared like No. 16. Half of 
it is rolled out and the pie tin lined with it. The apples are 
peeled, cored, sliced, put into the crust which is not 3'et baked, 
sugar and cinnamon strewn on, the white wine sprinkled over, 
the rest of the paste rolled out, 4 slits cut in the center and 
placed over the apples, fastening the edge well by pressing it 
down and cutting off the superfluous crust. Bake to a nice 

brown color. 

No. 19— STRAWBERRY OR HUCKLEBERRY PIE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1/3 lb. of cold butter % cup of cold water 

2 % cups of flour 
For the Filling. 
1 — 2 qts. of berries 1 cup of sugar 

Prepare the crust as before, (See No. 16, Lemon Pie), roll 
out half of the crust, line a pie tin with it, fill with berries and 
sugar, cover as before, (see No. 18), and bake in oven to a 

nice brown color. 

No. 20— STRAWBERRY PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Vi lb. of butter % cup of water 

1% cups of flour 
For the Filling. 
1 — 2 qts. of berries 1 cup of sugar 

For the Frosting. 
1 pt. whipped cream 2 tbsps. of sugar 1 tsp. of vanilla 



— 230 — 

Preparation : The pie crust is prepared and baked as given 
under No. 16. Then the berries and sugar are put in and put 
back into oven 15 minutes until berries are qooked, cool off, 
mix the whipped cream with sugar and vanilla and garnish 
the pie with it or spread evenly over the top and garnish with 
raw strawberries. . 

No. 21— PEACH PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1/3 lb. of col' butter 2 lbs. of peaches 

2 % cups of flour % cup of sugar 

% cup of cold water 

Preparation: Prepare the pie crust as in No. 16, but do 
not bake. Peel the peaches and remove the stones, then slice 
them, put into the pie and sprinkle the sugar over. Cover with 
the rest of the crust and bake to a nice brown color. 

No. 22— SQUASH PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of butter % glass of water 

1% cups ot flour 

For the Filling. 
1 pt. of squash 1 pinch of nutmeg 

3 eggs ^ cup of cream or milk 
1 tsp. of vanilla % tbsp. of corn starch 

Preparation: Prepare the crust as in No. 16, but do not 
bake it. Cook the squash, rub through a sieve or colander, 
add eggs, vanilla, nutmeg, cream, corn starch and put into the 
crust, bake 45 minutes. 

No. 23— PUMPKIN PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of cold butter V2 glass of cold water 

1% cups of flour 

For Filling. 
% medium sized pumpkin % cup of sugar 

% cup of molasses 2 tsps. of cinnamon 

% pt. of boiling milk 1 pinch of nutmeg 

1 tsp. of salt 2 eggs 

Preparation: The pie crust is prepared as in No. 16. The 
pumpkin is cut into pieces and cooked until tender. Rub 
through a colander or sieve, take 2i/^ cups of pumpkin puree, 
mix it with molasses, milk, salt, sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg and 
cook 15 minutes, stirring constantly. Lastly stir in 3 eggs, 
put into the crust and bake 45 minutes. 



—231— 

No. 24^MINCE PIE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of cold butter % glass of cold water 

1% cups of flour 
Mince Filling. 
1 lb. of lean beef V4, tsp. of salt 

1 lb. of sour apples % pt. of cider 
% cup of molasses % lb. of raisins 

% cup of sugar % lb. of dried currants 

% tsp. of ground cloves 1 tbsp. of chopped, sugared, 

% tsp. of ground cinnamon citron 

V4, tsp. of grated nutmeg 2 tbsps. of butter 

% cup of brandy % lb. of suet 

Preparation: The pie crust is prepared as in No. 16. The 
mince filling is prepared by cooking the lean beef in a little 
water, then removing fat and membranes, and chopping it 
fine. Apples are peeled, cored, chopped. Mix apples, meat, 
molasses, sugar, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, suet, chopped fine, 
cider, raisins, currants^ citron, butter, salt and brandy, put into 
the crust and bake 45 minutes. 

Remarks: This filling may be sufficient for 2 pies. The 
mince meat not used is kept in a sealed glass can. 

No. 25— ANOTHER KIND OF MINCE MEAT. 

Quantity for 4 Pies. 

2 lbs. of Igan beef 1 tsp. of salt 

1 lb. of beef suet % lb. of brown sugar 

5 lbs. sour apples 1 cup of molasses 

1 lb. of raisins 1 orange 

2 lbs. of currants 1 lemon 

% lb. of minced citron % pt. of brandy 
2 tsps. of all kinds of spiees 
Preparation: The meat is prepared as in No. 24. Apples, 
suet and citron are treated as given in No. 34 and the whole 
mixed vdth the spices, i. e., 1 teaspoonful of pulverized cinna- 
mon, % teaspoonful of cloves, ^ teaspoonful of nutmeg, salt, 
sugar, molasses, raisins, currants, juice of orange and lemon 
and brandy. Stir it for 10 minutes, put it into a glass can 
and seal. 

No. 26— PIEPLANT PIE, RHUBARB. 
1/3 lb. of cold butter % glass cold water 

2% cups of flour 
For the Filling. 
1 tbsp. of flour 1 % qts. p,ie plants, cut up 1 % cups of sugar 

Preparation: Prepare the pie crust as in No. 16. The pie 
plants are skinned and cut into 1 inch pieces, then put into 
pie crust, strew sugar and 1 tablespoonful of flour over, cover 
with a crust, making slits in the center, and bake 45 minutes. 



— 232 — 

No. 27— GRAPE PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of cold butter % glass water 

1% cups of flour 

For the Filling. 

2 cups of crushed and strained grapes 2 % cups of sugar 

Preparation: The dough is prepared as in No. 16. The 
grapes crushed in a sieve or colander, to remove the seeds and 
shells, then mixed with the sugar, put into the crust. Cover 
with strips of pie crust and bake 45 minutes. 

No. 28— SOUR CREAM PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
^ lb. of cold butter % glass of water 

1% cups of flour 

For the Filling. 
1 cup of light brown sugar 2 eggs 

1 cup of sour cream 1 tsp. of grated lemon peel 

Preparation: Prepare the crust as in No. 16 and bake it. 
Sour cream, sugar, yolks of eggs, lemon peel, beaten whites 
of eggs are mixed well and put into the baked crust and baked 
15 minutes in medium hot oven. 



No. 29— VANILLA CREAM PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of cold butter % glass of water 

1% cups of flour 

. For the Filling. 
2 cups of cream 3 eggs 

% cup of sugar 9 tbsps. of sugar 

2 tbsps. of flour 1 tbsp. of vanilla 

Preparation : Prepare the crust as in No. 16 and bake it. 
For the filling, mix the cream, 1/2 cup of sugar, flour, vanilla 
and cook in double boiler until thick, then stir in the 3 yolks 
of eggs, put into the crust and bake in oven 10 minutes. Now 
make the frosting with 3 beaten whites of eggs and the 9 
tablespoonfuls of sugar stirred in, cover the pie and bake in 
oven until light brown. 

No. SO^CHICKEN PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given under No. 6, Chap- 
ter 6, Poultry, see Chicken Pie. 



— 233 — 

No. 31— PATTY-PASTE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of good cold butter 1 white of egg 

% lb. of fine flour 1 tbsp. of rum 

% pt. of cold water % tsp. of baking powder 

Preparation: Flour, water, egg, rum and baking powder 
are mixed into a paste. The cold butter is cut on the paste, 
folded around it and rolled out. This repeated 3 times and 
the paste rolled out, cut into 6 small tarts or 1 large one. 

No. 3a— SWEET PUFF PASTE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Preparation: The ingredients and preparation are the 
same as given under No. 31. The rolled out paste is cut into 
all kinds of shapes, sprinkled with sugar and covered with 
fruit marmalade, tihen folded over, baked to a nice brown color, 
brushed with white of egg and sprinkled with sugar and cin- 
namon. 

No. 33— PUFF PASTE SCALLOPS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

Preparation : Ingredients and preparation are the same as 
under No. 31. The paste is rolled out to i/4 inch thickness, 
cut out with a medium large tumbler, cut into halves and 
baked. 

Remarks: These scallops are used for garnishing ragout. 

No. 34^PUFF PASTE TARTS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Preparation: Prepare the paste as given under No. 31, 
roll it out to 1/4 indh thickness and cut out 12 disks, then with 
a smaller cutter cut out the centers of these, so as to form 13 
rings. 6 of the small disks cut out of the centers are used to 
cover the tarts and the other 6 are folded together and rolled 
out to 1/6 inch thickness and 6 disks cut out a little larger 
than the rings. These are for the under crust. Set the rings 
upon the larger disks and fasten them on with beaten egg, 
brush the ring with beaten egg and put on a second ring. 
Then bake them^ in the oven, also the small disks as covers. 
Fill eadh tart with anything you like and put the cover on, put 
back into oven for a few minutes and serve. 



No. 35— SWEETBREAD PATTIES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are the same as given in 
Chapter 3, Veal, No. 28, Sweetbread Patties. 



— 234 — 

No. 36— CHICKEN PATTIES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are the same as given under 
Chapter 6, No. 7, Puflf Paste Patties. 

No. 37— PIGEON PIE, ENGLISH STYLE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given in No. 14, Chap- 
ter 6. 

No. 38— GOOSE LIVER PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given in No. 25, Chapter 
6, Goose Liver Pie. 

No. 39— PHEASANT PIE. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given under No. 37, Chap- 
ter 6, Pheasant Pie. 

No. 40— PIE MADE FROM GROUSE, HAZELHEN, 
SNOWHBN, SNIPE, QUAIL, PARTRIDGE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given under No. 39, 
Chapter 6. 

No. 41— COLD GAMiE PIE. 
Venison, Doe, Boar, Rabbit. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given under No. 11, Chap- 
ter 7, Cold Game Pie. 

No. 42— RABBIT PIE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given under No. 32, Chap- 
ter 7, Rabbit Pie. 

No. 43— OYSTER PATTIES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given under No. 57, Chap- 
ter 8, Fish. 

No. 44— NOODLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 eggs Piece of butter size of walnut 2 cups of flour 

Preparation: Beat the eggs and butter well, mix in the 
flour gradually, knead the dough 20 minutes, roll it out very 
thin, so it is almost transparent, then roll it up and cut in i/4 
inch slices for cooking and baking and still finer for soup, then 
dry them thoroughly. 



—ass- 
No. 45— COOKED NOODLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given under No. 44. These 
dried noodles are cooked in 5 qts. of boiling salt water 10 min- 
utes, then the water is drained off. 

No. 46— SOUP NOODLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given under No. 44. The 
fine soup noodles are cooked in bouillon 15 minutes. 

No. 47— HAM NOODLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given under No. 12, Chap- 
ter 5, Pork, Boiled Ham and Noodles. 

No. 48— NOODLE PUDDING WITH APPLES AS 
DESSERT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 eggs 1 cup of flour 

Piece of butter, size of % Salt water 

walnut 1 lb. of apples 

1 cup of sugar % cup of peeled, chopped almonds 
% cup of currants 1 cup of water 

% tsp. of cinnamon 
Preparation : The noodles are prepared like No. 44, cook- 
ed in salt water 10 minutes and the water drained off. The 
apples are peeled, cored and sliced. Butter a baking-dish or 
casserole and put in a layer of noodles, then apples, currants, 
sugar, cinnamon and almonds, repeat 2 or 3 times until all is 
used. The last layer should be noodles. Pour the cup of 
water over, place little pieces of butter on top and bake in 
oven 1 hour. 

No. 49— APPLE STRUDEL. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 eggs Piece of butter, size of % egg 1 cup of flour 

For the Filling. 
4 medium sized apples % cup of sugar 

% cup of almonds % tsp. of cinnamon 

2 tbsps. of citron 1 tbsp. of butter 

Vi cup of currants % lb. of butter for baking 

Preparation : The eggs and butter are mixed with the cup 
of flour and a noodle dough made which is rolled out to be 
almost transparent. The apples are peeled, cored and chopped 
into quite small pieces, the almonds peeled and almonds and 
citron chopped quite fine. All these are placed on the dough, 



— 236 — 

then sugar, cinnamon, currants and lastly the tablespoonful 
of butter cut into small pieces added, these rolled up in tihe 
dough and placed into a long pan. The % lb. of butter is cut 
in pieces and put on the strudel and this is baked in the oven 
to a nice color. Cream may be served with this as dressing. 

No. 50— ROLLED UP APPLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 eggs 6 medium sized apples 

Butter, the size of % egg 12 strawberries 

% cup of milk Sugar 

2 cups of flour Cinnamon 

% tsp. of baking powder Lard for baking 

Prepeiration : Butter and eggs are mixed well, then milk 
and flour added and lastly the baking powder, a smooth paste 
made and rolled out thin. The apples are peeled, cored and 
left whole, then each apple filled with fresh or preserved 
strawberries. Each apple is v^rrapped into a piece of paste, 
which is pressed around it, so it cannot come oflf and fry in 
deep fat. When done, strew with sugar and cinnamon and 

serve hot. 

No. 51— APPLE FRITTERS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

For the Pancake Batter. 

3 eggs % cup of sugar 

1 cup of flour % tsp. of cinnamon 

% cup of milk Butter for 'baking 

% tsp. of salt Sugar and cinnamon for sprink- 

3 medium sized apples ling. 

% glass white wine 

Preparation: Eggs, flour, milk and salt are stirred to a 
pancake batter. The apples are peeled and cut into thick 
slices, the core carefully removed, the white wine with sugar 
and cinnamon poured over the slices, covered and left standing 
for 1 hour. 

Heat the butter in a pan, dip the apple slices into the bat- 
ter and put them into the hot butter, then put on another table- 
spoonful of batter and bake on both sides to a nice brown 
color. Strew sugar and cinnamon over. Serve hot. 

No. 52— MACARONI WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of macaroni 2 cloves 

3 qts. of water % lb. of butter 

1 tbsp. of salt 1 pinch of pepper 

1 medium sized onion % lb. of grated Parmesan cheese 

Preparation: The macaroni is broken into pieces and 



— 237 — 

cooked well in boiling salt water, which will require % hour. 
Drain the water oif, strew pepper and grated cheese on, put 
the butter on and cook a while longer. Serve hot with a to- 
mato or lobster dressing. 

No. 53— BAKED MACARONI. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Iijgredients and preparation are the same as given under 
No. 52, but these are put into a buttered baking-dish, % pt. 
of cream poured on, roll crumbs and butter on top and baked 
in the oven to a nice color. 



No. 54^MACARONI WITH HAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given in Chapter 5, No. 
13, Boiled Ham With Macaroni. 



No. 55— FISH MACARONI. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of macaroni 1 tbsp. of flour 

3 qts. of water 1 pt. of cream or milk 

1 tbsp. of salt 2 tbsps. of lemon juice 

2 lbs. of boiled fish Salt to taste 

% lb. of grated Parmesan cheese 1 pinch of pepper 
% pt. white wine % cup sliced champignons 

% lb. of butter 
Preparation: The macaroni is broken into inch pieces and 
boiled in 3 qts. of salt water. The fish is cleaned, dressed and 
boiled in salt water, then the skin and bones are taken out and 
the fish cut into small pieces. Butter a baking-dish, put in a 
layer of macaroni, then fish and Parmesan cheese and cham- 
pignons, sprinkled with white wine. Repeat this 3 times, the 
last layer being macaroni. A dressing is made of % lb. of 
melted butter into vdiich the flour, cream or milk, lemon juice, 
salt and pepper are stirred, tihis poured over the macaroni, 
the y^ lb. of butter cut in small pieces, sprinkled over the top 
and baked in the oven to a nice color. 



No. 56— MACARONI PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of macaroni % lb. of grated Parmesan cheese 

3 qts. of water, for cooking 4 eggs 

1 tbsp. of salt % pt. of cream 

Scant % lb. of butter 1 pinch of pepper and one of salt 

Preparation: The macaroni is broken into 1 inch pieces. 



— 238 — 

cooked in 3 qts. of salt water, and drained. Cream the butter, 
stir in the yolks of eggs, cheese, salt, pepper and macaroni. 
Beat the whites of eggs and add, stirring lightly. Put into a 
buttered baking-dislh or casserole, which has been strewn with 
bread crumbs, cover well, set in a steamer over a kettle of 
boiling water and cook 1 hour. Serve with a truffle or brown 
butter dressing and turn pudding out on a platter. 



No. 57— MUFFIINS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

% pt. of flour % pt. of milk 

% pt. of corn meal 2 tbsps. of melted butter 

1/3 cup of sugar 2 tsps. of baking powder 

2 eggs 

Preparation: Flour, corn meal, sugar, eggs, milk and 
melted butter are mixed to a smooth batter, the baking pow- 
der added, then small muffin tins buttered and filled with 
dough. Bake 20 minutes. 



No. 58— CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of butter % glass water 

1% cups of flour 

For the Filling. 

% lb. of sugar Vi cup of water 

% lb. grated sweet chocolate 1 tsp. vanilla 

3 eggs 

For the Frosting. 

Whipped cream 

Preparation: The pie crust is made as given under No. 
16. For the filling, cook the chocolate 5 minutes with the 
water, sugar and vanilla, stirring constantly, remove from the 
stove and stir in the yolks of eggs and the beaten whites. 

This mixture is poured into the baked pie crust and put 
back into the oven to thicken. When cold, cover with 
whipped cream mixed with sugar and vanilla. 



— 239 — 

CHAPTER 16. 

SAUCES. 



FRUIT. 

Stewed fruit used as a sauce is a wholesome and valuable 
food. It is served with poultry and game. It is refreshing 
for patients. The fruit must be cooked in a pot or kettle free 
from any kind of grease. The spices must be removed from 
sauces and jams before serving. Fruit jams and sauces look 
best when served in glass dishes. 



No. 1— APPLE SAUCK 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 lbs. of apples % cup of white wine, if you 

3 cups of water like it 
Sugar to taste 1 slice of lemon 

1 tsp. of lemon juice 

Preparation: The apples are pared, cored, cut up into 
eighths, boiled until tender with water, wine, lemon slice, 
lemon juice and sugar. They should be cooked on a moderate 
fire to prevent scorching, rubbed through a colander, served 
cold in a glass dish. 

No. 2— CHERRY SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of cherries Sugar to taste 

1 cup of water 

Preparation: The cherries are cleaned, the stems picked 
off, cooked until tender in sugar and water and served cold. 
Sour cherries require much sugar. 



No. 3— STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 qts. of strawberries 1 cup of sugar 

% cup of water 

Preparation : The berries are cleaned and washed. Water 
and sugar are boiled down to a syrup ; cool it and put in the 
strawberries and shake them until they are well mixed with 
the syrup. Then put them in a cool place. 



— 240 — 

No. 4— RASPBERRY SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 qt. of raspberries % cup of sugar 

V2 cup of water 
Preparation: Clean the berries, boil the water and sugar 
5 minutes, then put in the berries and cook a little wlhile. Care- 
fully remove the scum and serve the fruit cold. 

No. 5— CURRANT SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 qts. of currants 1 cup of water 

1 % cups of sugar 
Preparation: Clean the currants and pick them off the 
stems. Boil the sugar and water, put in the berries and cook 
them a few minutes, take them out and put them into a dish. 
Boil the syrup until thick, then pour over the berries and 
serve cold. 

No. 6— WHORTLEBERRY OR HUCKLEBERRY SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% qts. of whortleberries 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

% cup of sugar 1 lemon slice 

Preparation : The berries are picked over, washed, put on 
the fire with water and sugar to cook. When boiling, add 
lemon slice and juice, let it boil up a few times, remove the 
lemon slice and serve cold. 



No. 7— BLACK MULBERRY SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 qts. of mulberries V2 cup of white wine or water 

Vz cup of sugar 1% tbsps. of lemon juice 

Preparation: The berries are picked over, washed and the 
water drained off. White wine and sugar or water and sugar 
are brought to boil. Add lemon juice and mulberries, cook 1 
minute, take them out with a skimmer. Boil down the juice 
and pour over the berries. Serve cold. 

No. 8— FRESH PLUM SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of fresh plums % cup of water % cup of sugar 

Preparation : The plums are cut into halves and the stones 
are taken out. The water and sugar boiled a few minutes, the 
plums put in, covered and cooked slowly without stirring un- 
til tender. Carefully place them into a dish so they will not 
be crushed. Boil down the juice and pour it over the fruit. 
Serve cold. 



— 241 — 

No. 9— GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% qts. of gooseberries 2 cups of sugar 

% cup of water 1 piece of lemon peel 

Preparation: The unripe berries are cleaned, i. e., stems 
and calix removed, scalded and left in the water a few min- 
utes and drained. 

Water and sugar are boiled, the berries put in and cov- 
ered. Let them simmer ^2 hour, strew with sugar and serve 
cold. 

Remarks: If there should be much syrup, boil some of 
it down with sugar until it becomes pink and forms bubbles, 
then pour on to a moistened plate. This jelly may be used for 
garnishing. 

No. 10— BILBERRY OR BLUEBERRY SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 qt. berries 2 cups of water 

1 cup of sugar 
Preparation: The berries are washed, cooked until ten- 
der in water and sugar, rubbed through a sieve or colander 

and served cold. 

No. 11— PEACH SAUCE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2% lbs. of peaches % cup of water 

% cup of sugar 10 peach stones 

Preparation: The peaches are pared, cut into halves and 
the stones removed. Sugar and water are boiled a few min- 
utes, the peaches put in and 10 of the stones, set to simmer a 
few minutes ; then take them out with a skimmer, boil down 
the syrup and pour over the fruit when cold. 

No. 12— APRICOT SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The ingredients and preparation are the same as given 
under No. 11, Peach Sauce. 



No. 13— PLUM SAUCE. 
Mirabelle Plum. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% lbs. mirabelle plums % cup of white wine or water 

1 cup of sugar 
Preparation: Sugar and wine are boiled for l/^ minute, 
prick each plum, put them into the boiling sugar and stew 
them slowly until tender. Serve cold. 



— 242 — 

No. 14^-GRBBNGAGE SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The preparation of this fruit is the same as given under 
No. 13, Mirabelle Plum. 

No. 15— PINEAPPLE SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 pineapple 2 tbsps. of lemon juice 

1 cup of sugar 1 cup of water 

Preparation: The pineapple is peeled, cut up into neat 
pieces and cooked well done in sugar and water mixed with 
lemon juice. If there is too much syrup, take out the fruit, 
boil down the syrup and pour over the fruit. Serve cold. 



No. 16— MELON SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 melons 1 cup of sugar 

Juice of 1 lemon % cup of water 

Preparation: The melons are peeled, the seeds taken out, 
the fruit cut into neat pieces and boiled until tender in sugar, 
water and lemon juice. Then take out the melon with a skim- 
mer, boil down the juice to a syrup and pour it over the fruit. 
Serve cold. 

No. 17— ORANGE AND APPLE SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 sweet-sour apples M cup of white winq 

6 oranges % cup of water 

1 cup of sugar 

Preparation: The apples and oranges are peeled, the core 
and seeds removed and each sliced or cut into 8 to 10 equal 
pieces. The sliced apples are boiled in white wine, water and 
y2 cup of sugar. Cook slowly, taking care that the pieces do 
not break. Let them cool. The white skin is removed from 
the oranges. The yellow skin or peeling is cut up and thickly 
sugared, set on the stove so the sugar will adhere to the pieces, 
then set to cool. The orange slices are also sugared well. Now 
in a glass dish, alternate layers of boiled apples and sliced 
oranges are placed, repeating twice, and the apple and orange 
juice poured over. The sugared orange peel is used for gar- 
nishing the dish ; but the rind of one orange should be suffi- 
cient for that. 



— 243 — 

No. 18— STEWED SLICED APPLES FOR SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
12 sweet-sour apples . % cup of sugar 

2 cups of water Yz cup of white wine 

Vi cup of currants 

Preparation: The apples are peeled, cored and cut into 
8 or 10 equal parts. The currants are washed and put to boil 
with apples, water, wine and sugar. Boil until tender, but not 
broken. Serve them cold. 



No. 19— DRIED APPLES FOR SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of dried apples 1 slice of lemon 

% qt. of water " - — Juice of % lemon 

% lb. of sugar 1 cup of white wine, if you wish 

Preparation: The apples are washed, drained and put to 
boil in % qt. of water. Set them on the back of the stove 
where they will heat very slowly and soak while heating. Add 
the sugar, lemon slice, lemon juice and white wine, let them 
boil until tender and serve cold. 

Remarks: These dried apples may be made into a smooth 
sauce by rubbing them through a colander or sieve when done. 



No. 20— PRUNES FOR SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 lb. of prunes 1 pt. of water 

% cup of sugar 1 slice of lemon 

Juice of % lemon 

Preparation : The prunes are washed and set to boil with 
1 pt. of water, sugar, lemon slice and lemon juice. If there is 
too much juice, take the prunes out, boil down to a thicker 
syrup and pour over the prunes. Serve cold. 



No. 21— RHUBARB SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 bunches of pie plants 1 cup of water 

Sugar to taste 

Preparation: Skin the rhubarb and cut it up in 2 inch 
pieces, cook until tender in water and much sugar. Serve 
cold. Rhubarb requires mudh sugar, as it is very sour. 

Remarks : If you like, you can thicken this sauce with a 
little corn starch dissolved in water. 



— 244— 

No. 22— PEAR SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of juicy pears 1 ^stick of cinnamon 

1 % qts. of water 1 slice of lemon 

Vi lb. of sugar 1 tbsp. of corn starch 

1 clove 

Preparation: The pears are peeled, large pears cut into 
4 parts, small ones into halves. The core is cut out and the 
pears cooked until tender in water, sugar, cloves, cinnamon 
and lemon slice. It is best to cook them very slowly in a 
granite or porcelain dish. When the pears are soft, take them 
out, add the corn starch to the syrup, boil it down and pour 
over the fruit. Serve cold or warm. 



No. 23— TOiMATO SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persops. 
12 medium sized tomatoes 3 cloves 

2 cups of sugar ^ sliced lemon 

1% cups of water 

Preparation: The tomatoes are scalded and skinned. 
Water, sugar, cloves and lemon slices brought to boil and the 
tomatoes put in 2 or 3 at a time. When they are done, take 
them out and put in others until all are boiled. Boil down the 
syrup if there is too much of it and pour over the tomatoes 
after straining. 



— 245 — 

CHAPTER 17. 

DESSERTS. 



Directions for preparing all kinds of desserts, cold and warm ; 

puddings, puff pastes, souffles, sherbets, creams, 

ices and ice creams. 



Steamed Puddings. 

No. 1— RICE PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of rice % lb. of raisins 

1 qt. of milk % lb. of ground almonds 

% lb. of fresh butter 7 eggs 

ii lb. of sugar, scant 1 pinch of salt 

Preparation: The rice is washed and brought to boil in 
1 cup of water. When the water is boiled down, add the milk 
gradually and 1 pinch of salt and boil to a thick muslh. When 
done, cool it ofif. Cream the butter, add sugar, 7 yolks of eggs, 
raisins, almonds and the beaten whites of eggs. Butter a pud- 
ding-mold, strew in some bread crumbs, put in the rice pud- 
ding, close the mold well and set in a steamer over a kettle of 
boiling water and boil for 1% hours. When serving, turn 
the pudding out on a platter and serve cold with a vanilla or 
wine sauce or sweet cream. 



No. 2— APPLE RICE PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of rice 7 eggs 

% qt. of milji 1 pinch of salt 

Va lb. of butter 6 sweet-sour apples 

% lb. of raisins 1 cup of sugar 

% lb. of blanched, ground almonds 

Preparation: The rice is cooked slowly with one cup of 
water; when the water is boiled down, add the milk graduall)- 
and cook it to a thick mush. Cream the butter, add the sugar, 
then the yolks of eggs, raisins and almonds. Let rice cool, 
then mix all together. The apples are peeled, cored, cut into 
16 parts and stewed until tender in a little water and sugar. 
Butter a pudding-mold and strew with bread crumbs. Stir 



— 246 — 



the well-beaten whites of the 7 eggs into the rice, put a 
layer of rice into the mold, then a layer of apples and repeat 
this twice ; the last layer to be rice. Close the mold, set in a 
steamer over a kettle of boiling water and boil 1^ hours, then 
turn over on platter and serve with sweet cream. 



No. 3— CHERRY RICE PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of rice % lb. of peeled and ground 

% qts. of milk almonds 

% lb. butter % lb. of raisins 

7 eggs 1 lb. stoned sour cherries 

1 cup of sugar 

Preparation : The preparation is again the same as No. 2, 
instead of apples put in layers of sour cherries, boiled until 
tender in 1 cup of sugar and 1 cup of water. Boil down tihe 
cherry juice with sugar to taste and serve it with the pudding. 



No. 4r-PEA.CH RICE PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of rice % lb. of peeled and ground 

% qt. of milk almonds 

7 eggs % lb. of raisins 

% lb. of butter 1% lbs. of peaches 

% lb. of sugar 

Preparation: The preparation is again the same as No. 2, 
instead of apples put in layers of peaches, boiled until tender 
in 1 cup of water and one of sugar. Boil down the peach 
juice, putting in a few stones which should be removed before 
serving, and serve the syrup with the pudding. 



No. 5— APRICOT RICE PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of rice 1% lbs. of stoned apricots 

% qt. of miLk % lb. of sugar 

% lb. of butter % lb. of peeled and ground 

7 eggs almonds 

% lb. of raisins 

Preparation : The preparation is the same as given under 
No. 2, see Apple Rice Pudding. Instead of apples put in 
layers of apricots boiled until tender in 1 cup of water and Yz 
cup of sugar. Boil down the juice with some sugar and serve 
with the pudding. 



— 247 — 

No. 6— PLAIN RICE PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of rice >4 lb. of butter 

1 qt. of milk 7 eggs 

% lb. of sugar 

Preparation: The preparation is the same as given under 
No. 1, Rice Pudding. 

No. 7— FROTH OR FOAM PUDDING. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% pt. of milk % lb. of fine flour 

% lb. of butter 1 lemon peel 

% lb. of sugar 8 eggs 

Preparation:. The milk is brought to boil, the butter 
added, sugar and flour are mixed and stirred into the boiling 
milk until the mixture comes off the sides of the skillet. Then 
cool it, grate the lemon peel and stir it in with the yolks of 
eggs and the beaten whites. Butter a pudding-mold and strew 
in bread crumbs, then put in the pudding, set in a steamer 
over a kettle of boiling water, cover the mold tightly and boil 
for 2 hours. Turn it, and serve with a fruit sauce. 



No. 8— CABINET PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
8 zwieback 1 pt. of milk 

12 lady fingers 1 pt. of cream 

% lb. of raisins 6 eggs 

Vi lb. of currants % lb. of sugar 

Prepeuration : The zwieback is broken into 3 parts, the 
lady fingers into halves. Butter a mold and make a layer of 
zwieback, raisins, currants, then one of lady fingers, repeat 
this 2 to 3 times, the last layer being zwieback. Then mix well 
the milk, cream, sugar and eggs and pour on the pudding, set 
in a steamer over a kettle of boiling water. and boil li/^ hours. 
When done, turn it out on a platter and serve with a wine 
sauce. 

No. 9— WHEAT BREAD PUDDIING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of fresh butter V* cup of currants 

6 eggs "% cup of fine cut citron 

Vi lb. of sugar % cup blanched, grated almonds 

% cup of raisins 4 milk rolls 

Preparation : Creami the butter with yolks of eggs, sugar, 
raisins, currants, citron and almonds, mix and stir well. The 
crust of the rolls is grated off, then they are soaked in milk. 



-248- 



the surplus milk pressed out and the rolls stirred with the rest 
of the ingredients, also the beaten whites of eggs. Butter a 
mold, strew with bread crumbs, put in the pudding and steam 
1 hour. Serve with a fruit sauce. 



No. 10— PLUM PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 — '8 Persons. 
1 pinch of salt 6 eggs 

1 lb. raisins 1 lemon peel 

1 lb. currants 2 cups of milk 

1 lb. of flour 2 small cups of grated bread 

1 lb. of sugar % cup of brandy 

1 lb. beef kidney suet Rum 

Preparation: Raisins and currants are washed well and 
dried. The suet is chopped very fine and mixed well with 6 
eggs, sugar, raisins, currants, grated lemon peel, milk, bread 
crumbs, brandy and lastly the flour. Butter a mold, strew 
with bread crumbs, put in the pudding and steam for 5 hours. 
Turn the pudding out on a platter, pour the rum over and light 
it. The flaming pudding is brought to the table and served 

"with a wine sauce. 

No. 11— CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 pt. of milk Scant % lb. of sugar 

Scant % lb. of butter % lb. blanched, ground almonds 

% lb. grated sweet chocolate 6 eggs % lb. fine flour 

Preparation: The milk is brought to boil, butter, sugar, 
flour, dhocolate well stirred in until the mixture comes oflf the 
sides of the skillet, then take from the stove. Cool it and stir 
in the almonds, yolks of eggs and the beaten whites. 

Butter a mold, strew with bread crumbs, fill with the 
pudding, cover tightly and steam 1% hours, then turn out on a 
platter and serve with a vanilla .sauce. 

Remarks : The dish must be only % full because the pud- 
ding raises very much. 

No. 12— FLOUR PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of fine flour Vz grated lemon peel 

8 eggs % lb. of sugar 4 tbsps. of lemon juice 

Preparation: Beat the yolks of eggs with sugar 20 min- 
utes, add lemon juice and grated rind and lastly stir in the 
flour, which must be sifted 4 times. The whites of eggs are 
beaten to a stiff froth and mixed in. Butter a mold, put in the 
pudding, close it well and steam 11/4 hours. Turn the pudding 
on a platter and serve with a wine sauce. 



— 249 — 

No. 13— LAYER PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

% pt. of cream 5 beaten whites of eggs 

% lb. of flour % lb. of sugar 

% lb. of butter % lemon peel 5 yolks of eggs 

For the Filling. 
% lb. peach marmalade, or 1 qt. of cherry or strawberry 

preserves 

For Between Layers, 4 Small Pancakes. 
V4, lb. of flour 1 pinch of salt 

3 tbsps. of butter % lemon peel 

4 eggs Butter, for baking % pt. of milk 

Preparation : Cream, flour, butter, yolks of eggs are mixed 
well and brougiht to boil. When the batter rolls from the 
sides of the pot, take it off the fire to cool. Then add sugar, 
grated lemon peel, and 5 whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

Now bake the pancakes. Mix well the milk, flour, 3 table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, 4 eggs and a little salt. Heat a 
pan with butter and bake the pancakes the size of the pudding 
dish. Now butter the mold, strew bread crumbs in, make 1 
layer of pudding batter, one layer of fruit marmalade or pre- 
served fruit as peaches, cherries, strawberries or raspberries ; 
on this fruit layer, place a pancake, then another layer of pud- 
ding batter, again a layer of fruit, another pancake and so on 
according to the number of pancakes you have. The top layer 
must be the pudding batter. Close the dish well and steam 
for 1% hours. When done, turn the pudding out and serve 
witih a fruit sauce. — 

No. 14— FARINA PUDDING No. 1 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 pt. of milk % lb. of blanched, ground 
1 cup of fine farina almonds 

% lb. of butter The rind of % lemon 

Scant % lb. of sugar 6 eggs 

Preparation: Milk and butter are brought to boil, the 
farina stirred in, the sugar and lemon rind added and all stirred 
and cooked until the 'batter rolls from the sides of the skillet, 
then cool it off and add almonds, yolks of eggs and beaten 
whites. Butter a mold, strew with roll crumbs, put in the 
pudding, close the mold well and steam 1^^ hours. Turn tlie 
pudding out on a platter and serve with cherry or raspberry 
sauce. 



— 250 — 

No. 15— MACARONI PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are the same as given under 
No. 56, in Chapter 15, Macaroni Pudding. 



No. 16— POTATO PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given in Chapter 10, No. 
16, Potato Pudding. 

No. 17— MEAT PUDDING WITH RICE LAYERS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients, and preparation are the same as given as in 
Chapter 2, Beef, No. 2, Meat Pudding, from Roast Beef, Stew 
or Soup Meat. — 

No. 18— ANOTHER FORM OF MEAT PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are the same as given in 
Chapter 3, Beef, No. 26, Meat Pudding. 



No. 19— MUTTON KIDNEY PUDDING. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparations are given in Chapter i, 
Lamb, No. 20, Lamb Kidney Pudding. 



No. 20— VEAL ROAST PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are the same as given in 
Chapter 3, Veal, No. 6, Veal Roast Pudding. 



No. 21— GOOSE LIVER PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given in Chapter 6, Poul- 
try, No. 26, Goose Liver Pudding. 



No. 22— CHERRY PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 — ^8 Persons. 
8 milk rolls Rind of 1 lemon 

% at. of milk % tsp. of cinnamon 

% lb. of butter 2 lbs. stoned cherries 

8 eggs % cup of sugar 

Preparation: The milk rolls are grated and soaked in 
milk. When well soaked, press out the milk and rub them 
through a strainer or colander. Melt the butter in a spider, put 



— 251 — 

in the mashed rolls and saute or dry fry them on the stove. 
Now mix this well with yolks of eggs, grated lemon rind, 
cinnamon, sugar, stoned cherries and cherry syrup. Beat the 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add to the mixture. Butter 
a pudding mold, strew in bread crumbs, then fill with the pud- 
ding and steam for 2 hours. Turn out and serve. 

No. 23— FARINA PUDDING No. 2. 

Quantity for 6 Persr.ns. 
1 qt. of milk % cup of fine farina 

% lb. of butter 8 bitter almonds 

% cup of sugar % lb. sweet almonds 

1 grated lemon peel 8 eggs 

Preparation: The milk and butter are brougiht to boil, 
then the sugar, lemon peel and farina poured in and cooked 5 
minutes to a thick paste, stirring constantly. Now take from 
the fire, cool off and add blanched 'tnd ground sweet and bitter 
almonds, the 8 yolks of eggs and the beaten whites. Butter 
a pudding mold, strew with bread crumbs, put in the pudding 
and steam 1% hours. Turn the pudding out and serve with 
a fruit or wine sauce. 

No. 24r— SOUR CREAM PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% pt. thick, sour cream % lb. of roll crumbs 

Juice and peel of % lemon % tsp. of salt 

10 eggs 1 cup of currants % cup of sugar 

Preparation: The thick sour cream is mixed well and 
stirred 10 minutes with juice and grated peel of lemon, yolks 
of eggs, roll crumbs, salt, currants and beaten whites of eggs. 
A mold is buttered and strewn with roll crumbs, the pudding 
filled in and steamed 1% hours. Then it is turned out on a 
platter and served with a wine or fruit sauce. 

No. 25— BLACK PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of ground almonds % tsp. cinnamon 

^ lb. sweet chocolate % tsp. ground cloves 

Vi lb. of sugar % cup of roll crumbs 

% lb. of small raisins % cup of white wine 

% cup chopped citron 6 eggs 

Preparation: The unblanched almonds are ground, the 
chocolate grated. Sugar and yolks of eggs are stirred 20 min- 
utes, then mixed well with almonds, chocolate, raisins, citron, 
cinnamon, cloves, roll crumbs, white wine and beaten whites 
of eggs. Butter a mold, strew it with crumbs, put in the pud- 
ding, close it well and steam 1% hours. Turn it out and serve 
with a chocolate sauce. 



— 252 — 

No. 26— PUDDING A LA BRANDENBURG. 

Quantity for 6 — ^8 Persons. 
1 pt. of milk 1 tbsp. chopped bitter almonds 

% lb. of butter 2 tbsps. chopped citron 

Vi lb. flour, good measure 1 tbsp. chopped orange rind 

Vi lb. of sugar % grated lemon peel 

% lb. of blanched, chopped 7 eggs 

sweet almonds Vi cup of rum 

Preparation: Milk and butter are brougtht to boil, add the 
flour and boil, stirring constantly till it comes from the sides of 
the skillet. Cool and stir in the sugar, sweet and bitter al- 
monds, citron, orange and lemon peel, yolks of eggs and the 
beaten whites. Butter a pudding mold, strew it with roll 
crumbs, put in the pudding, close well and steam for 2 hours. 
Turn the pudding out on a platter, pour on % cup of rum, light 
it and bring it to the table. Serve with a wine sauce. 

Warm Puddings, Baked Puddings. 
No. 27— BAKED CREAM PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% qt. of sour cream 2 tbsps. of lemon juice 

% cup of sugar 3 tbsps. of flour 

% lemon peel 7 eggs 

Preparation: The sour cream is mixed well with sugar, 
grated lemon peel, lemon juice, flour, 7 yolks of eggs and 
beaten whites. Then bake in the oven in a buttered pudding 
dish for 25 to 30 minutes. 

No. 28— BAKED RICE PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 cup of rice % lb. of butter 

% qt. of milk 4 eggs Vz cup of sugar 

Preparation: The rice is boiled to a thick mush with 
milk. Cream the butter with sugar and yolks of eggs, add the 
rice and the beaten Whites of eggs, fill into a buttered pudding 
dish and bake in oven % hour. 

Remarks: The pudding may be made richer with % lb. 
blanched, ground almonds, y2 cup of raisins, 6 to 8 eggs in- 
stead of 4. 

No. 29— BAKED RICE PUDDING WITH FRUIT 

LAYERS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 cup of rice 1 qt. boiled fruit, (cherries, apri- 

% qt. of milk cots or peaches) 

Vs lb. of butter '6 eggs % cup of sugar 

Preparation: The preparation of the rice is the same as 
given under No. 28, Baked Rice Pudding. 



— 253— 

The buttered pudding dish is filled with alternating layers 
of rice and fruit, from wlhich the juice has been drained. Put 
in 3 layers of each and the top layer should be rice. Bake in 
oven for 1 hour and serve with the sauce from the fruit used 
in the pudding. 

No. 30— BAKED FARINA PUDDING WITH FRUIT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 qt. of milk 3 tbsps. of lemon juice 

1 cup of farina % lt>. sugar 

% lb. of butter 5 eggs 

1 grated lemon rind 1 qt. cherries 

Preparation: The milk is brought to boil, the farina put 
in and stirred 10 minutes. Let it get cold. Cream the butter, 
add grated lemon rind, lemon juice, sugar, 5 yolks of eggs and 
the farina and stir in the beaten whites of eggs. Butter a pud- 
ding dish and fill it with alternating layers of farina and cher- 
ries, 2 layers of each ; the top layer should be farina. Put a few 
pieces of butter over the top and bake in oven 1 hour. 

No. 31— BAKED CHERRY PUDDING. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of butter % lb. blanched, ground almonds 

Vi lb. of sugar 3 rolls 

6 eggs 3 lbs. sweet cherries 

Preparation: Soak the rolls in milk, cream the butter with 
sugar, add the yolks of eggs, almonds and rolls, after pressing 
out tihe milk; mix well, add the stoned cherries and beaten 
whites of eggs. Butter a baking-dish, put in the pudding and 
bake in oven 1 hour. 

No. 32— BAKED LEMON PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
8 eggs % lemon peel 

Vi lb. of sugar 1 tbsp. corn starch Juice of 1 % lemons 

Preparation : The 8 yolks of eggs are beaten 1^4 hour with 
sugar, lemon juice and grated lemon peel, the corn starch and 
beaten whites of eggs added last. Butter a baking-dish, fill 
in the pudding and bake 15 minutes. 

No. 33— BAKED POTATO PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. boiled, grated potatoes Vz Pt. of cream 

6 eggs % lb. of sugar 1 grated lemon rind 

Preparation: Cream t!he yolks of eggs and sugar, add the 
grated lemon peel, grated potatoes, cream, beaten whites of 
eggs, and mix well. Put the batter into a buttered baking- 
dish and bake in oven 45 minutes. Serve with a fruit sauce. 



— 254 — 

No. 34^BAKED POTATO PUDDING. 
To be Served with Meat. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
8 medium sized potatoes % tbsp. Parmesan cheese 

1/10 lb. of butter 1 pinch of pepper 

2 — 3 eggs Salt to taste 

Preparation: The potatoes are boiled, peeled and grated. 
Cream the butter with the yolks of eggs, add the potatoes, 
dheese, salt, pepper and beaten whites of eggs. Butter a cas- 
serole or pudding-dish, put the pudding in, sprinkle bread 
crunibs and pieces of butter over the top and bake in oven 

45 minutes. 

No. 35— BAKED CHARLOTTE PUDDING. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 rolls % cup of blanched, ground 

% pt. of milk almonds 

% pt. of white wine % cup of raisins 

% lb. of sugar % grated lemon peel 

4 eggs 
Preparation: The rolls are soaked in milk and wine, add 
ground almonds, sugar, raisins, lemon peel, yolks of 4 eggs 
and lastly the beaten whites of eggs. A baking dish is buttered, 
the pudding filled in and baked in oven 45 minutes. A fruit 
or wine sauce is served with the pudding. 

No. 36— BAKED ALMOND PUDDING. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
8 eggs % cup of sugar 

Vi lb. blanched, ground almonds % lb. fine flour 

Preparation: The yolks of eggs, almonds and sugar are 
stirred 20 minutes, then the flour and wlhites of eggs added. A 
pudding-dish is buttered, the pudding filled in and baked 45 

minutes. 

No. 37— BAKED YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 egg 1 pinch of salt 

1 white of egg 6 tbsps. of butter 

% pt. of milk 6 tbsps. of mutton suet 1 cup of flour 

Preparation: Egg, white of egg, milk and flour are mixed 
well. Butter is heated in a pudding-dish, the batter put in, the 
suet heated and poured over and the pudding baked in a hot 

oven 20 minutes. 

No. 38— BAKED CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% pts. of milk % lb. of sugar 

Vi Ih. of sweet chocolate % cup of butter 

4 tbsps. of flour 7 eggs 1 tsp. of vanilla 

Preparation: The dhocolate is grated and mixed with 



— 255 — 
flour and sugar. The milk is brought to boil and the choco- 
late with the flour and sugar added, stirred over the fire until 
the mixture is thick, then cooled. Cream the butter with the 
yolks of eggs and vanilla, mix with the chocolate batter and 
the beaten whites of eggs. Butter a pudding-dish, fill in the 
pudding and bake in oven for 1 hour. 

No. 39— BAKED APPLE AND FARINA PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 pt. of milk Vi lb. of raisins or currants 

% cup of fine farina % lb. blanched, ground sweet 

4 eggs almonds 

% lb. of butter 6 blanched, ground bitter almonds 

6 large sweet-sour apples One lemon peel 

Preparation: The milk is brought to boil, the farina add- 
ed and cooked 10 minutes, stirring constantly, then cooled. 
Cream the butter, mix with yolks of eggs, sugar, grated lemon 
peel, the boiled farina, and the beaten whites of eggs. 

The apples are peeled, sliced into i^ inch slices, mixed 
with ^2 cup of sugar. Butter a pudding-dish and put in layers 
of farina, apples, currants and almonds alternating, repeat 3 
times ; then bake in oven for 1 hour. 

No. 40— BAKED APPLE STEW PUDDING. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of good butter V2 cup of sugar 

8 medium sized sweet-sour 1 h^ heaping tbsps. of flour 

apples 1 pt. thick sweet cream 4 eggs 1 lemon peel 

Preparation : The apples are peeled, cut into 4 inch slices 
and stewed in % lb. of butter, then cooled. Beat 4 yolks of 
eggs for 30 minutes with sugar, add flour, grated lemon peel, 
cream and the stewed apples. Lastly add the beaten whites 
of eggs. Butter a pudding-dis'h, put in the pudding and bake 

45 minutes. ■ 

No. 41— FINE BAKED APPLE PUDDING: 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 medium sized, sweet- sour % tsp. of cinnamon 

apples % grated lemon peel 

% cup of currants % qt. thick, sweet cream 

% cup of blanched, ground 5 eggs 

^ almonds % cup of sugar 

2 tbsps. of sugar 2 tbsps. of flour 

Preparation : The apples are peeled, cored and filled with 
a mixture of currants, almonds and 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Butter a pudding-dish, put in the filled apples, make a batter 
of cream, cinnamon, lemon peel, yolks of eggs, sugar, flour and 
beaten whites of eggs, then pour over the apples and bake 
slowly- 



— 256— 

No. 42— BAKED OMELET PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

6 eggs ^ grated lemon peel 6 tbsps. of sugar 

Preparation: The yolks of eggs are beaten 25 minutes 
with the sugar, the beaten whites of eggs lightly mixed in, 
tlhen put into a buttered pudding dish, and bake in oven 20 
minutes. ■ 

No. 43— BAKED CREAM PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
1 pt. of milk 1 tbsp. of butter 

7 eggs % grated lemon peel 
Vs lb. of corn starch % lb. of sugar 

Preparation: Milk, butter and sugar are brought to boil. 
Four yolks of eggs are stirred smooth with the corn starch and 
added to the boiling milk to cook 3 minutes, stirring constant- 
ly; then cooled and three yolks of eggs, "grated lemon peel, 
beaten whites of 7 eggs added. 

Butter a dish, put in the pudding and bake in oven ^4 
hour. Serve with a fruit sauce. 



No. 44— BAKED' FLOUR PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% qt. of milk Vi lb. blanched, ground 

% cup of flour almonds 

Vi lb. of sugar 5 eggs 

Preparation: Flour and % cup of milk are stirred smooth, 
the rest of the milk brought to boil and the flour stirred in to 
boil 1 minute. The almonds, sugar and eggs are stirred in and 
beaten 10 minutes. Butter a pudding dish, put in the batter 
and bake in oven for 1 hour. Serve with a raspberry sauce. 

No. 45— BAKED SPONGE PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 eggs % cup of sugar 

4 tbsps. of thick, sour cream 2 tsps. of vanilla 

Preparation : Yolks of eggs, cream, sugar and vanilla are 
stirred 20 minutes. The beaten whites of eggs are mixed^n 
and put into a buttered pudding dish. Bake in medium hot 
oven for I/2 ^lour. A fruit sauce is served with it. 

No. 46— BAKED VEAL ROAST PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given in Chapter 3, Veal, 
No. 6, Veal Roast Pudding. 



— 257 — 

No. 47— BAKED SWEET PUDDING WITH WINE 

FROSTING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 rolls Ya It), chopped citron or almonds 

1 pt. of milk 1 % grated lemon peel 

% lb. of good butter % tsp. of cinnamon 

Vi lb. of sugar 6 eggs 

For Wine Frosting. 
•6 eggs ^4 tsp. of cinnamon 

% lb. of sugar 2 glasses of French white wine 

Peel and juice of 1 lemon 1 glass of arrack 

Preparation: The crust is grated off the rolls, these are 
cut up, soaked in milk for 1 hour, then the milk is pressed out 
and the soaked rolls stirred with the melted butter to a creamy- 
mass. Add sugar, citron, cinnamon, 6 yolks of eggs, and the 
beaten whites. Butter a pudding dish, put in the batter and 
bake 1 Ihou 

Prepare the frosting by mixing 6 yolks of eggs, sugar, 
grated lemon peel and lemon juice, cinnamon, French white 
wine and arrack and heating it on the fire while beating con- 
stantly. Then add the 6 beaten whites of eggs to the hot 
sauce. Pour the wine sauce over the hot baked pudding and 
serve at once. 

No. 48— BAKED RYE BREAD PUDDING WITH 
APPLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2% cups of soaked rye bread 6—8 medium sized, sweet- sour 

3 eggs apples 

1 cup of sugar Vs lb. of butter % cup of currants 

Preparation: The apples are peeled, cored, cut into slices 
1/4 inch thick. Cream the butter, add sugar, yolks of eggs, rye 
bread, currants and beaten whites of eggs. Butter a pudding 
dish and fill it with alternating layers of rye bread mixture 
and apples with sugar sprinkled over, repeat 3 or 3 times. The 
top layer should be rye bread. Put on small pieces of butter 
and bake in oven 1 hour. Serve sweet cream with the pudding. 



No. 49— BAKEID NOODLE PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Noodles made froni 2 eggs % cup of sugar 

Salt water % cup of currants 

6 — 8 medium sized, sweet-sour apples 1 cup of water 

Preparation: The noodles are cooked in salt water for 
10 minutes, then the water is drained off. The apples are 
peeled, cored and sliced. Butter a pudding dish and fill with 



—258— 

alternating layers of noodles and apples with sugar and cur- 
rants. The top layer should be noodles. Pour on a cup of 
water, put on small pieces of butter and bake in oven 1 'hour. 

No. 50— BAKED QUINCE PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 — 8 quinces Juice and peel of 1 lemon 

Vi lb. of sugar 6 eggs 

Preparation: The quinces are boiled until soft in water, 
then skin and grate them. The grated quince should weigh 
about % lb. Stir until white. Add sugar, grated lemon peel 
and juice, yolks and beaten wlhites of eggs. Put into a butter- 
ed dish and bake in oven % hour. 

No. 51— BAKED MACAROON PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 tbsps. of butter % cup of bitter macaroons 

% pt. of milk 5 eggs 

Scant % lb. of flour % lb. of sugar 

2 tbsps. of cream % lb. blanched, ground almonds 

3 cups of sweet macaroons 1 tbsp. of vanilla 

Preparation: Butter, milk, flour, crushed macaroons are 
stirred over the fire until they form a thick batter; remove 
from the fire and stir until it has cooled off. Add the yolks of 
eggs, sugar, almonds, vanilla, beaten whites of eggs. Put in- 
to a buttered dish and bake in oven for 1 hour. Serve with 
a fruit sauce. 

Remarks: This pudding rnay be steamed for 1% hours. 
Sweetmeats Baked or Fried in Pans On the Stove. 



No. 52— FREiNCH TOAST, 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 milk rolls 2 eggs 

1 pt. of cream or milk % tsp. of cinnamon 

% cup of sugar Butter or lard for baking 

Preparation: The rolls are sliced, cream, sugar, eggs, cin- 
namon are mixed and poured over the slices to soak. Butter 
is heated in a pan, the roll slices baked a golden yellow in it 
and sprinkled thickly with sugar and cinnamon. Serve dried 
or fresh fruit sauce with it. 



No. 53— CARTHUSIAN DUMPLINGS WITH WINE 

SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 fresh rolls % cup of sugar 

1 % pts. of milk ^ tsp. of cinnamon 

2 eggs Butter for baking 

Preparation: The crust of the rolls is grated off, then 



—259— 

quarter them and soak in a pint of milk. After soaking, press 
out the milk, mix the milk well with eggs, sugar, cinnamon 
and pour it back on the roll slices to soak for a while 
longer. Now roll each piece in the crumbs from the crusts 
and bake in butter to a nice color. Serve on a hot platter 
with wine sauce. 

No. 64— APPLE FRITTERS OR BANANA FRITTERS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

4 sweet-sour apples or bananas % glass of white wine 

% cup of sugar 

For the Batter. 

3 eggs % tsp. of salt 

1 cup of flour 1 % cups of milk Butter for frying 

Preparation: The apples are peeled, the core removed, 
sliced in y^ inch thick, round slices, white wine and sugar 
poured over. Eggs, milk, flour and salt are mixed to a batter. 
Butter is heated in a pan, each apple slice dipped into the bat- 
ter, put into tihe hot butter and fried a nice color. Serve on 
a hot platter, sprinkled with sugar and cinnamon. 

No. 55— APPLE STRUDEL. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Noodle dough from 3 eggs Flour % lb. of butter 

For the Filling. 
6 medium sized, sweet-sour % tsp. of cinnamon 

apples % lb. blanched, chopped almonds 

% cup of sugar % cup of chopped citron 

% cup of currants Butter for baking 

Preparation: The noodle dough is rolled out very thin. 
Melt the butter and brush it on the dough. Peel and core the 
apples and slice them thin. Then put tIhe apple slices, sugar, 
cinnamon, almonds and citron on the dough, roll it up, brush 
it with butter and bake in a buttered pan 30 to 45 minutes. 
Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon and serve. 

No. 56— CHOCOLATE STRUDEL. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Noodle dough from 3 eggs % lb. of butter Floup 

For the Filling. 

5 eggs 10 blanched, chopped bitter 
Scant % cup of sugar almonds 

% lb. blanched, chopped 1/3 lb. grated sweet chocolate 

sweet almonds Butter for baking 

Preparation: The noodle dough is kneaded with % lb. of 
butter, then rolled out very thin. The 5 yolks of eggs are 



-.260 — 



stirred with sugar for 15 minutes, almonds and chocolate are 
added, and lastly the beaten whites of eg-gs. This mixture is 
spread on the dough which is then rolled up, A baking pan is 
buttered and the strudel baked ^2 to % hour. 



No. 57— CHOCOLATE STRUDEL WITH DRESSING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The ingredients and preparation are the same as given un- 
der No. 56, Chocolate Strudel. When ready to be baked, place 
it into the pan in the form of a snail, pour on % pt. of hot 
cream mixed with % lb. of fine grated chocolate and 1 table- 
spoonful of vanilla, then bake % hour. 



No. 58— STEAM NOODLES. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of flour 3 eggs 

% pt. of milk 1% cups of flour 

1 cent's worth of yeast 1 qt. of cream 

Vi lb. of butter % lb. of butter % cup of sugar 

Preparation: Mix flour, milk and yeast to a batter and 
set to rise. When risen, mix in butter, sugar, eggs and flour. 
Put on a well-floured baking board and form dumplings from 
tihe dough, leaving them on the board to rise. Stew them 15 
minutes in the hot cream and l^ lb. of butter until light brown, 
then sprinkle with sugar and pour drawn butter over. 



No. 59— FRIED APPLE POCKETS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 small apples % cup of sugar Raspberry ielly 

Pancake Batter, 
3 eggs Salt 

% cup of milk 2 cups of flour Lard for baking 

Preparation: The apple.s are pared, cored, filled with jel- 
ly and strewn with sugar. 

Eggs, milk, salt and flour are stirred into a dough that is 
rolled out to % inch thickness. With a tumbler cut out 13 
round disks. Put eadh apple between two disks and press the 
edges together, so as to completely cover the apple. Then fry 
in much hot lard, place into a colander to drain off the fat and 
sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. They may be served 
warm or cold. 



— 261 — 

No. 60— BISCUIT TORTONI. MACAROON MOUSSE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 eggs 1 cup of grated macaroons 

1 cup of powdered sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 1 pt. whipped cream 

Preparation: Whip the yolks of eggs, vanilla and sugar 
well, mix in the macaroons, beaten whites of eggs and whipped 
cream. Oil a mold, put in the mixture and let it stand in ice 6 
hours before serving. 

No. 61— RUM CREAM WITH CHERRY SAUCE. 

Quantity for 6 — 10 Persons. 

6 eggs 1 % tsps. of vanilla 

% cup of rum 5 layers of gelatine or % package 

% lb. of sugar % pt. of milk 1 pt. whipped cream 

Preparation: Yolks of eggs, rum and sugar are whipped 
to a froth. Milk and vanilla are brought to boil, the gelatine 
dissolved in a little milk and mixed with the boiling milk to 
which also the mixture of yolks of eggs, rum and sugar is 
added. This mixture must be stirred until it is cold, then the 
beaten whites of eggs and finally the whipped cream is stirred 
in. Rinse a mold with cold water, put in the pudding and 
place on ice or in a cold place. Turn the pudding out on a 
platter and serve with cherry sauce. 



No. 62— WHIPPED CREAM PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 pt. of whipped cream 1 cup of sugar 

% cup of sugar 1 cup of grated pumpernickel 

2 tsps. of vanilla % lb. of grated chocolate 
2 qts. of fresh strawberries % cup of sugar 

Preparation: The cream is mixed with sugar and vanilla. 
The strawberries are cleaned and mixed with 1 cup of sugar. 
Pumpernickel, chocolate and ^ cup of sugar are mixed. Now 
arrange in a glass dish layers of strawberries, pumpernickel 
and whipped cream. The latter garnished with strawberries 

make the top layer. 

No. 63— WINE PUDDING. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% pt. good white wine 8 eggs 

Juice of 2 lemons 4 layers or 1/3 package of white 

1 grated lemon rind gelatine 

V2 lb. of sugar Fruit for garnishing 

Preparation: White wine, lemon juice, and lemon rind, 
sugar, 8 yolks of eggs are stirred well on the stove and brought 
to boil 14 minute. The gelatine is dissolved in 4 tablespoon- 



— 262 — 

fuls of wine and mixed in with the rest, also the beaten Whites 
of eggs. Oil a mold, put in the mixture and put on ice or in a 
cold place. When stiff, turn it out on a platter and garnish 
with fruit. 

No. 64r— WINE CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% pt. good white wine % lb. of sugar 

% cup of French brandy or 6 eggs 

cognac 6 layers or % package of red 

% cup of cherry juice gelatine 

Juice of 1 lemon Juice of 1 orange 1 pinch of salt 

Preparation: White wine, brandy, cherry juice, lemon 
juice, orange juice, sugar, yolks ,of eggs and the gelatine dis- 
solved in wine are mixed well and stirred over a slow fire un- 
til it thickens, but do not let it boil. While still warm, add the 
wlhites of eggs beaten to a froth and salt. Oil a mold, put in 
the cream and place on ice or prepare it a day before using. 
When serving, turn it out and garnish with cherries. 



No. 65— WINE JELLY WITH RICE LAYERS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

Wine Jelly. 

% bottle of white wine 1 % cups of water 

9 layers of gelatine or % package Juice of 2 lemons and 1 orange 

Rice Layer. 

% lb. of sugar 1 pinch of salt 

%, cup of good rice % pt. of white wine 

3 qts. of water 3 layers or % package of white 

Juice and grated rind of Vz gelatine 

lemon 3 oranges 

Preparation: White wine, lemon and orange juice, sugar 
and gelatine dissolved in li^ cups of water are well mixed 
over a slow fire. The rice is washed and cooked 25 minutes 
in 3 qts. of water, then poured into a colander or sieve. Now 
add the wine, sugar, lemon juice and rind, salt and dissolved 
gelatine, cover and cook very slowly. When the juice has 
been absorbed by the rice, take it from the stove and cool. A 
dish is placed into ice or very cold water and a layer of wine 
jelly poured in to stiffen. When that is stifif, cut out oblong 
dumplings of cold rice and place them on the jelly layer in 
circles, pour on another layer of wine jelly and so on until the 
rice and jelly are used up. When stiff, turn it out and garnish 
the jelly and platter with orange slices. 



— 263— 

No. 66— WHITE WINE JELLY WITH FRUIT LAYERS, 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% bottle of white wine % pt. of water 

9 layers or % package of white % cup of sugar 

gelatine Juice of 2 lemons and one orange 

Fruit for Layers. 

Bananas Strawberries or pineapples 

Preparation : White wine, dissolved gelatine, sugar, lemon 
and orange juice are well mixed and stirred over the fire until 
it starts to boil, then strain through a cloth. Place a dish on 
ice or into very cold water, pour in a cup of jelly to stiffen, 
on this place a layer of fruit, strawberries, sliced bananas or 
pineapples and repeat several times 

If you have no fresh fruit, use preserves from which the 
syrup has been drained. The jelly layer must be on top. Turn 
it out before serving. The platter may be garnished with 
various kinds of fruit. 



No. 67— LEMON JELLY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% qt. of water 10 layers or 1 package of white 

Juice of 4 to 5 lemons gelatine 

Ve lb. of sugar 

Preparation : The gelatine is dissolved in % qt. of warm 
water, sugar and lemon juice added and the Vi^ihole warmed a 
little, then strained through a cloth. Put into a mold and 
when stiff, turn it out on a platter. 

Remarks: You may put layers of fruit into the jelly ac- 
cording to No. 66, Wine Jelly With Fruit Layers. 



No. 68— ORANGE JELLY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% pts. of orange juice, (about 9 layers or % package of red 

10 oranges) gelatine 

5 tbsps. of lemon juice 1 cup of champagne or good 

Vi lb. of sugar white wine 

Preparation: The oranges are cleaned, cut into halves, 
and the juice carefully pressed out with a lemon squeezer. The 
gelatine and sugar are dissolved in tihis juice, then warmed and 
lemon juice and wine added. Strain through a cloth. The 
orange rinds are carefully cleaned out without breaking them 
and filled with the above gelatine, then placed on ice. When 
stiff, place the oranges on a platter and garnish with fresh 
leaves. 



— 264 — 
No. 69— PINEAPPLE JELLY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 large pineapple 8 layers or % package of white 

1 pt. of water or white wine gelatine 

1 % cups of sugar 

Preparation: The pineapple is peeled and grated on a 
fine grater. The gelatine is dissolved in 1 pt. of warm water, 
then mixed well with sugar and the grated pineapple. This 
mixture is strained through a fine sieve, poured into a mold, 
placed on ice to harden. When cold, turn it out. 



No. 70— CHERRY JELLY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 qts. of sour cherries 1 stick of cinnamon 

1 pt. of water 10 layers or 1 package of gelatine 
% lb. of sugar % cup of red wine 

2 cloves 

Preparation: The cherries are cleaned and stoned. Two 
dozen of the stones are crushed and boiled with the crushed 
cherries, cloves and Cinnamon for 30 minutes in 1 pt. of water, 
the dish being covered. Strain, add gelatine and sugar, then 
strain again and add the red wine. Put the jelly into a mold, 
place on ice and when cold, turn out on a platter. 

No. 71— STRAWBERRY JELLY. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 qts. of nice, ripe strawberries 8 layers or % package of red 
% lb. of sugar gelatine 

Juice of 2 lemons 2 tsps. of vanilla 

1 pt. of water 

Preparation: The strawberries are crushed, water, sugar, 
lemon juice mixed in and cooked over a slow fire for 10 min- 
utes, then strained through a fine sieve. The gelatine is dis- 
solved in this juice and the whole strained again. Fill into a 
mold, place on ice to stiffen, then turn out and garnish with 
strawberries and whipped cream. 

No. 72— ORANGE GELATINE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 pt. of cream 6 layers or % package of white 

Grated rind of 1 orange gelatine 

Juice of 3 oranges % lb. of sugar 

Preparation: Cream, grated orange rind and juice, sugar 
and gelatine are mixed well and cooked 1/4 hour, stirring con- 
stantly, then strained through a fine sieve. Oil a mold, put in 
the jelly and place on ice or prepare the day before serving. 
Turn out on a platter or glass dish. 



— 265 — 

No. 73— ARRACK CREAM WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 yolks of eggs % cup of warm water 

% lb. of sugar 6 tbsps. of arrack 

5 layers or % package of red 1 pt. of whipped cream 
gelatine 

Preparation: Yolks of eggs and sugar are whipped ^ 
hour. The gelatine is dissolved in warm water and strained, 
then mixed with the yolks of eggs and sugar, arrack and lastly 
the whipped cream. This is filled into a gla§s dish and set to 
stiffen. 

No. 74^STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 qt. of preserved strawberries, 5 layers or % package of white 

or 2 qts. of fresh ones gelatine 

% lb. of sugar % cup of warm juice 

1 tsp. of vanilla 1 pt. of whipped cream 

12 lady fingers 

Preparation: The juice is drained from the strawberries 
and strained to remove the seeds. The gelatine is dissolved 
in % cup of the juice and mixed with strawberries, vanilla, 
sugar and whipped cream. Oil a mold, strew with sugar, put 
in a layer of lady fingers, then the cream on top of the lady 
fingers, place on ice to harden, turn it out and serve with 
strawberry juice. 

Remarks: If you take fresh strawberries, use more sugar. 



No. 75— RASPBERRY CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are the same as given undfer 
No. 74, Strawberry Cream. If you use fresh raspberries, you 

need 2 pts. 

No. 76— PINEAPPLE CREAM. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 pt. of preserved pineapple 6 layers or Vz package of white 

% cup of sugar gelatine 

1 tsp. of vanilla 1 pt. whipped cream 

Preparation: The juice from the pineapple is drained off 
and warmed, the gelatine dissolved in some of it and strained 
through a fine sieve. Sugar and vanilla are stirred in and the 
pineapple cut up into small pieces. Lastly add the whipped 
cream which has been drained on a sieve. Oil a mold, strew 
in a little sugar, fill in the cream and place on ice or prepare 
the day before serving. Turn out on a platter. 



— 266 — 

"No. 77— VANILLA CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% pt. of milk 5 layers or % package of gelatine 

3 eggs 1 pt. of whipped cream 

1 vanilla bean or 2 tbsps, of % lb. of sugar 

vanilla 

Preparation: The vanilla bean is put into the milk to 
soak, or the vanilla extract put into the milk; also the yolks 
of eggs, sugar and gelatine. Let this mixture come to a boil, 
stirring constantly, boil ^4 minute, mix in the beaten whites 
of eggs and stir until cold. Now add the whipped cream. Oil 
a mold, fill in the cream, and place on ice; turn it out when 

stiff. 

No. 7&— COLD APPLE CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 apples 1 tbsp. of flour 

% pt. -white wine % lemon peel 

% lb. of sugar 1 qt. of strawberries or 

1 qt. of cream 5 eggs raspberries 

Preparation: The apples are peeled, cored and cut into 8 
parts, then boiled until soft in ^ pt. of white wine and % lb. 
of sugar. When done, cool them. 

The cream, yolks of eggs, flour, grated lemon peel and 
1/4 lb. of sugar are mixed well, then boiled to a cream, stirring 
constantly. Now oil a mold and put in a layer of boiled apples, 
then strawberries or raspberries, then a layer of cream, then 
frosting made of the whites of eggs beaten to a froth with 6 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. This is baked 10 minutes in a 
medium hot oven. Let it get cold and serve in the dislh. 

Remarks. This cream may be served hot, but it is better 
cold. If you have no fresh fruit, use preserved, but drain 
off the juice. 

No. 79— COLD APPLE PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
12 sweet-sour apples 8 layers or % package of white 

Water gelatine 

2 cups of white wine 1 cup of sugar 

Preparation: The apples are cut up and put into a pot 
with enough water to cover them, then boiled until soft, very 
slowly, so they do not get slushy. Pour them into a sieve or 
cloth and drain off the juice. This is boiled down to 1 qt., add 
to it the sugar and gelatine and strain ; boil up again, then mix 
in the white wine. Fill the whole into a glass dish to stiffen 
and serve with a vanilla sauce. 

Remarks : The apples may be used for apple sauce. 



—267 — 

No. 80— NECTAR. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 qt. ol sour cream 9 layers or % package of red 

% lb. of sugar gelatine 

1% tsps. of vanilla 4 tbsps. of rum % cup of milk 

Prep2iration : Sour cream, sugar, vanilla and rum are 
mixed well. The gelatine is dissolved in warm milk, strained 
and mixed with the other ingredients. Pour into a mold and 
set on ice to stiffen. Turn it out before serving. 

No. 81— CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
1 qt. of milk % lb. peeled, ground almonds 

Scant % lb. of cern starch 1 tbsp. of vanilla 

% lb. of sugar 8 eggs 

Preparation: % qt. of milk, sugar, almonds and vanilla 
are mixed well and brought to boil. Then the corn starch is 
stirred into ^4 qt. of milk, poured into the boiling mixture and 
boiled 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Yolks of eggs are stirred 
in as soon as the pudding is taken from the fire, also the beater 
whites of eggs. Put into a dish to stiffen, turn it out and serve 
with a vanilla or wine sauce. 



No. 82— COLD LEMON CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 eggs % glass white wine 

% lb. of sugar 5 layers or % package of white 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon gelatine 

3 tbsps. of arrack 
Preparation: The yolks of eggs and sugar are stirred ^ 
hour, then add the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon and thf 
arrack. Dissolve the gelatine in warm white wine, stir unti 
cold and strain before mixing with the other ingredients. Adc 
the whites of eggs beaten to a froth, place on ice or prepare 
a day before serving. Turn it out on a platter. 

No. 83— RUSSIAN CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 eggs % cup of sugar 2 tbsps. of rum 

Preparation: Yolks of eggs and sugar are beaten for 1! 
minutes, add tihe rum, then the beaten whites of eggs. Serve 

in glass dishes. 

No. 84— ORANGE CREAM PREPARED COLD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

5 eggs 2 tbsps. lemon juice 

% lb. of sugar 4 layers or 1/3 package of white gelatine 

Grated rind of % orange 8 tbsps. of orange juice 

Preparation: The yolks of eggs and sugar are beaten i/^ 



— 268 — 

hour, add the gelatine dissolved in the orange juice, and 
strained. Then add the lemon juice, grated orange rind and 
the beaten whites of eggs. Put into glass dishes and set to 

stiffen. 

No. 85— COLD LEMON CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

The preparation is the same as given under No. 84, Orange 

Cream Prepared Cold. Instead of 8 tablespoonfuls of orange 

juice and rind, take the same quantity of lemon juice and rind. 

No. 86— COFFEE CREAM PREPARED COLD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The preparation is the same as given under No. 84, Orange 
Cream Prepared Cold. Instead of the juice of oranges, the 
juice of lemons and the rind, take % pt. of coffee extract in 
which you dissolve 1 tablespoonful of cocoa. 

No. 87— CHOCOLATE CREAM PREPARED COLD. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

The preparation is the same as given under No. 84, Orange 
Cream Prepared Cold. Instead of the juice of oranges, the 
juice of lemons and the rind, take 1/10 lb. of bitter chocolate 
or cocoa dissolved in i/4 cup of water and 1 teaspoonful of 

vanilla. 

No. 88— CHOCOLATE CREAM. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Vi lb. of chocolate 6 layers or scant % package of 

% lb. of sugar white gelatine 

1 pt. of water 4 eggs 1 tsp. of vanilla 

Preparation : The chocolate is dissolved in 1/4 pt._of water 
and the gelatine in the other % pt., mix the two. Add sugar 
and vanilla and boil this mixture ^ minute. Take from the 
fire and add the yolks of eggs, a little later the whites of eggs 
beaten to a froth. Rinse a mold with cold water, put in the 
mixture to stiffen, turn it out and serve with a vanilla sauce. 



No. 89— CHOCOLATE MOUSSE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% cup of cocoa 4 layers or 1/3 package of 

% cup of sugar gelatine 

1 tbsp. vanilla % cup of water 1 pt. of whipped cream 

Preparation: Dissolve the cocoa and gelatine in % cup 
of water on a small fire, with sugar and vanilla well mixed in. 
Stir until cold, add the whipped cream. Rinse a mold with 
cold water ; put in the mixture, close th.e dish well, pack in ice 
and salt and let stand several hours. When serving, dry the 
dish and turn the cream out on a platter. 



—2 BO- 
NO. 90— VANILLA MOUSSE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 qt. of whipped cream 5 tbsps. of warm water 
4 layers or 1/3 package of white 2 tsps. of good vanilla 

gelatine % lb. of sugar 

Preparation: The gelatine is dissolved in the warm water 
and strained. The sugar and vanilla are added and the whip- 
ped cream in spoonfuls. Rinse a mold with cold water, fill in 
the mixture, close well and pack in ice and salt for several 
hours. Then dry and turn out on a platter. 

No. 91— COFFEE MOUSSE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The preparation is the same as given under No. 90, Vanil- 
la Mousse. Instead of vanilla, take 6 to 8 tablespoonfuls of 

coflfee extract. 

No. 92— HAZELNUT MOUSSE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The preparation is the same as given under No. 90, Vanil- 
la Mousse. Mix in % lt>- roasted, coarsely chopped hazelnuts. 

No. .93— PINEAPPLE MOUSSE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The preparation is the same as given under No. 90. In- 
stead of vanilla, take % lb. of pineapple, cut into small pieces, 

or pineapple puree. — ■ 

No. 94— RUM OK COGNAC MOUSSE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
The preparation is the same as given under No. 90, Vanil- 
la Mousse. Instead of vanilla, take 8 tablespoonfuls of rum 

or cognac. 

No. 95— COUNT PUECKLBR OR LAYER MOUSSE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1% pts. whipped cream Vs lb. of macaroons 

% lb. chocolate 1 % tsps. of vanilla 

% lb. of sugar 12 layers or 1 package of wh'te 

% cup of raspberry jelly gelatine 

2 whites of eggs % cup of warm water 

PARTI. 
Preparation: i/^ lb. of chocolate is grated and mixed well 
with 14 cup of warm water and % lb- oi sugar. Dissolve the 
gelatine in the other i/4 cup of warm water, strain and divide 
into 3 parts ; mix % of it with the chocolate, i/^ teaspoonful of 
vanilla and % pt. of thick whipped cream. 



— 270 — 

PART II. 
Dissolve the raspberry jelly over the fire, mix in Yg lb. of 
sugar, 2 beaten whites of eggs, and 1/3 of the dissolved gela- 
tine, also y2 teaspoonful of vanilla and y^ pt. of thick whipped 
cream. p^^-p jjj 

The macaroons are crushed, mixed with % jpt. of whipped 
cream, Yg lb. of sugar, % teaspoc«iful of vanilla and 1/3 part 
of the dissolved gelatine. 

A form is rinsed with cold water and layers of the choco- 
late, raspberry and macaroon mixtures are put in. Then the 
mold is closed well and packed in salt and ice for some hours. 
When serving, dry the mold and turn it out on a platter. 

No. 96— COLD RICE STARCH PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. rice starch 1 grated lemon peel 

% lb. of sugar 5 eggs 

1 pt. of milk 1 pinch of salt 

PrefKiration : The milk and grated lemon peel are brought 
to boil ; sugar, rice starch and yolks of eggs are mixed well 
with a little cold milk, stirred into the boiling milk and boiled 
again 5 minutes, stirring constantly ; then take from the stove. 
When the mass has cooled, mix in the beaten wlhites of eggs. 
Rinse a mold with cold water, fill in the pudding and set to 
stiffen. Turn it out on a platter and serve with a fruit sauce. 

No. 97— COLD CHOCO'LATE PUDDING WITH FARINA. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
\^ lb. of fine chocolate % cup of sugar 

% lb. of fine farina 1 qt. of milk 1 tsp. of vanilla 

Preparation: The chocolate is grated and mixed with 
farina, vanilla and sugar. The milk is brought to boil, the 
farina mixture put in and boiled 15 minutes, stirring constant- 
ly. Rinse a mold witlh cold water, fill in the pudding and set to 
stiffen. Vanilla sauce is served with it. 



No. 98— COLD RICE PUDDING WITH PEACHES. 

Quantity for 6 — 10 Persons. 
1 cup of good rice 5 finely chopped macaroons 

% qt. of milk 5 layers or Vz package of white 

1 pinch of salt gelatine 

1 cup of sugar 1 pt. of whipped cream 

1 tsp. of vanilla 1 qt. preserved or fresh stewed 

% cup of raisins peaches 

1 cup of blanched, ground almonds 

Preparation: Wash and boil the rice for 5 minutes in 1 
cup of water with a pinch of salt, then add the milk gradually 



— 271 — 

and cook until the rice is done and thick, but not mushy. Mix 
with sugar, vanilla, raisins, almonds and macaroons. Dissolve 
the gelatine in 1/4 cup of warm water and mix with tihe rice, 
then cool and stir in the whipped cream. Rinse a mold with 
milk and sprinkle with sugar, then make alternating layers of 
rice and peaches from which the syrup has been drained. The 
top layer must be rice. Close the mold well and place on ice 
or into a very cold place. When serving, use the fruit juice 
for a sauce. 

No. 99— PLAIN COLD RICE PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 cup of rice 5 layers or % package of white 

% qt. of milk gelatine 

1 cup of sugar 1 pt. of whipped cream 

1 tsp. of vanilla 1 pinch of salt 

Preparation: Wash and boil the rice 5 minutes in 1 cup 
of water and a pinch of salt, then gradually add the milk until 
the rice is thick, but not mushy. Now stir in the sugar and 
vanilla. Dissolve the gelatine in 14 cup of warm water and 
stir into the rice, then cool and mix in the whipped cream. 
Rinse a mold or dish with milk and sprinkle with sugar. Put 
in the pudding, close it well and place on ice or into very cold 
water. Turn it out on a platter and serve with cherry sauce. 

No. 100— CHAMPAGNE CREAM. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
8 eggs 5 layers or ^ package of white 

Scant % lb. of sugar gelatine 

1 pt. champagne 1 pint of thick whipped cream 

Preparation: 5 yolks of eggs, 3 whole eggs, sugar and 
champagne are mixed and boiled to cream, stirring constantly. 
The gelatine is dissolved in ^^ cup of water and mixed into the 
cream, also the beaten whites of 5 eggs. Put it into a mold 
or into glasses and put on ice. Serve with macaroons. 

Remarks: Omit the gelatine when using the whipped 
cream. 

No. 101— CURRANT AND RASPBERRY PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 qts. of currants and % lb. of sugar 

1 qt. raspberries 1 cup of fine farina or sago 

1 pt. of water % cup of corn starch 

Preparation: Currants and raspberries are picked over 
and cooked in 1 pt. of water Yz hour, then strained through a 
cloth and the juice brouglht to boil. Add the sugar and farina 



— 272 — 

and cook for 20 minutes, stirring constantly ; fill the mass into 
a mold rinsed with cold water to stiffen. Turn it out and 
serve with cream or milk. 

Remarks : If you use corn starch instead of farina, mix it 
with 1 cup of cold juice before putting it into the boiling juice. 
Then boil it 5 to 8 minutes and fill it into the mold. If the 
farina is not sweet enough, add more sugar while boiling. 



No. 102— GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 qts. of gooseberries 1 lb. of sugar 

1 qt. of water % cup of fine farina 

Preparation: Gooseberries are best wlhen still unripe. 
Cook them in water for i^ hour, then press through a fine 
sieve and put in the sugar and cook again with the farina for 
10 minutes. Fill it into a dish rinsed with cold water and set 
aside to stiffen, turn it out and serve with cream or milk. 



No. 103— CHERRY PUDDING. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2 lbs. of sour cherries % lb. of sugar 

1 pt. of water 1 tbsp. of lemon juice % lb. of corn starch 

Preparation: Clean arid stone the cherries, then crush 
about 20 stones and cook them with the cherries in the water 
slowly for % hour, after that strain them and add lemon juice 
and sugar. Then let it come to boil again. Mix the corn 
starch with 1 cup of cold juice and stir it into the boiling juice 
to cook 5 to 8 minutes more, stirring constantly. Put into a 
dish rinsed with cold water and after stiffening, turn it out 
and serve with cream or milk. 

Remarks: If the pudding is too thin, add more corn 
starch. 

No. 104^HILL CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% qt. sweet cream % lb. of sugar 

5 yolks of eggs 3 whites of eggs 

% lemon peel 1 glass of raspberry jelly 1 tbsp. of flour 

Preparation: Cream, yolks of eggs, grated lemon peel, 
flour and sugar are mixed well and boiled to a cream. The 3 
beaten whites of eggs and the jelly are stirred 1 hour, then fill 
the cream into a glass dish and set to cool. After cooling, fill 
the jelly on top of it. Serve cold. 



— 273 — 

Desserts That Are Frozen. 
No. 105— VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

Quantity for 10 Persons. 
1 qt. of cream 2 tbsps. of vanilla 

1 pt. of milk Sugar to taste 
% tbsp. of flour 3 eggs 

Preparation: ]^ pt. of milk 3 yolks of eggs and flour are 
boiled to a cream', stirring constantly; mix the beaten whites 
of eggs with sugar and add to tihe cream. To this add the 
rest of the milk, cream and vanilla. Freeze the mass and pour 
a hot chocolate sauce over it when serving. It is very fine. 

No. 106— STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 qts. of fresh or 1 qt. preserved 1 tsp. of vanilla 

strawberries 1 qt. of cream Sugar to taste 

Preparation,: The strawberries, fresh or preserved, are 
rubbed through a sieve, cream and vanilla, sugar to taste add- 
ed, then frozen. 

No. 107— RASPBERRY ICE CREAM. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

2 pts. of fresh or 1 pt. preserved 1 tsp. of vanilla 

raspberries Sugar to taste 1 pt. of cream 

The preparation is the same as given under No. 106, 

Strawberry Ice Cream. 

No. 108— PEACH ICE CREAM. 
Quantity for 8 — 10 Persons. 
2% qts. of fresh or 1 qt. pre- 1 tsp. vanilla 
served peaches Sugar to taste 

1 qt. of cream 

Preparation: Fresh peaches are peeled, stoned and rub- 
bed through a sieve, mixed with cream, vanilla and sugar and 

frozen. 

No. 109— APRICOT ICE CREAM. 
Quantity for 8 — 10 Persons. 

2 % qts. of fresh or 1 qt. of pre- 1 tsp. of vanilla 

served apricots Sugar to taste 1 qt. of cream 

The preparation is the same as given under No. 108, Peach 

Ice t'resim ^-^— ^^^— ^^— ^^ 

No. 110— LEMON ICE CREAM. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 pt. of milk 2 cups of sugar 

% pt. of cream Juice of 2% lemons 

Preparation: Milk, cream and sugar are mixed and put 

into the ice cream freezer to freeze a little, then the juice of 

2^4 lemons are added and frozen. 



—274 — 

No. Ill— PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 — 8 Persons. 
1 qt. of cream Sugar 

1 large pineapple Juice of % lemon 

Preparation: The pineapple is peeled and grated, then 
rubbed through a sieve, mixed with cream, sugar and lemon 
juice and frozen. 

No. 112— CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 pt. of cream % lb. of chocolate 

1 pt. of milk 1% tsps. of vanilla. 

4 yolks of eggs About % lb. of sugar 

Preparation: Dissolve the chocolate in milk, add sugar, 
cream, vanilla, yolks of eggs and heat to the boiling point, 
stirring constantly. Remove from the fire immediately, stir 
until cold and freeze. , 

No. 113— COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 pt. of cream 1 pt. of milk 

% lb. of finely ground strong % lb. of sugar 
coffee 4 yolks of eggs 

Preparation: The coffee must steep in the milk for 1 
hour, then strain through- a fine cloth. Cream, yolks of eggs 
and sugar are mixed well and cooked to a cream, stirring con- 
stantly. Then take it off the stove and stir until cold, mix with 
coffee and milk and freeze. 



No. 114— NUT ICE CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 pt. of cream About ^4 lb. of sugar 

1 pt. of milk % lb. ground hazelnuts 3 yolks of eggs 

Preparation: Milk, cream, sugar and yolks of eggs are 
mixed well and boiled, stirring constantly ; then cooled, the 
nuts mixed in and the mass frozen. 

Remarks: One teaspoonful of vanilla may be added. 



No. 115— TEA ICE CREAM. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 pt. of cream % lb. of sugar 

1 pt. of milk 2 tbsps. of fine tea 4 yolks of eggs 

The preparation is the same as given under No. 113, Cof- 
fee Ice Cream. Instead of steeping the coffee in the milk, put 
in tea. 



—275 — 

No. 116— VANILLA ICE CREAM WITH FRUIT. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 qt. of cream % cup of chopped citron 

1% tbsps. of vanilla % lb. of crushed macaroons 

% lb. of sugar 25 preserved cherries 

4 eggs 1 cup of large raisins 3 tbsps. of maraschino 

Preparation: Cream, vanilla, sugar and yolks of eggs are 
mixed well and brought to boil, stirring constantly, then coo 
it. The raisins are scalded, put into a colander, cut into sma! 
pieces, mixed with the cut citron, crushed macaroons anc 
quartered cherries, also 3 tablespoonfuls of maraschino and 
mixed into the cold cream. Add also the beaten whites of eggs 
and freeze. 

No. 117— STRAWBERRY ICE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 qts. of fresh or 1 qt. preserved 1 tsp. of vanilla 
strawberries Sugar to taste 

Preparation: The strawberries are rubbed through a 
sieve, sugar and vanilla added, then frozen. Serve with whipped 

cream. 

No. 118— RASPBERRY ICE 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 pts. of fresh or 1 qt. of pre- 1 tsp. of vanilla 
served raspberries Sugar to taste 

The preparation is the same as given under No. 117, 

Strawberry Ice. 

No. 119— PEACH ICE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
3 — 4 qts. of fresh or 1% qts. Sugar to taste 

of preserved peaches 

Preparation: The fresh peaches are peeled, stoned, pressed 
through a sieve, mixed with sugar and frozen. 



No. 12a-APRICOT ICE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
Preparation and ingredients are the same as given under 

No. 119, Peach Ice. 

No. 121— PINEAPPLE ICE. 
Quantity for 6 Persons. 
1 large pineapple % lb. of sugar, (good measure) 

% pt. of water 2 whites of eggs Juice of % lemon 

Preparation : The pineapple is peeled, grated, mixed with 
sugar, whites of eggs, lemon juice and water, then frozen. 



— 276 

No. 122— TUTTI FRUTTI ICE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 large pineapple Juice of i^ lemon 

% pt. of water 2 oranges 

3 whites ol eggs 1 cupful of preserved cherries 

% lb. of sugar, (good measure) 

Preparation : This tutti-frutti ice is prepared like No. 121, 
Pineapple Ice. Oranges are peeled and cut into small pieces 
and sugared, the cherries are quartered and sugared. When 
the pineapple ice is nearly frozen, mix with orange and cherry 
and freeze a little more, but do not turn the freezer. 



No. 123— CHAMPAGNE SHEKBET. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 pt. of water 2 cups or 1 pt. of sugar 

1 qt. of champagne 1 pt. of orange juice 

Preparation : Dissolve the sugar in a little water then add 
champagne and orange juice. Fill the mixture into a freezer 
and pack with finely chopped ice and salt. Do not turn freezer, 
stir contents occasionally with spoon. 



No. 124— CHAMPAGNE FRAPPE. 

Quantity for 8 Persons. 

1 pt. of water Juice of 1% lemons or to taste 

Whites of 2 eggs 2 cups of sugar 1 bottle of champagne 

Preparation: Dissolve the sugar in water and add the 
jtiice of lemon, beat the whites of eggs well and add, then let 
it freeze. Before serving the lemon ice, it should be put into 
a larger dish when taken out of the freezer. Pour the cham- 
pagne over the mass and beat quickly, strve at once in glasses. 



No. 125— MAPLE SYRUP ICE. 

Quantity for 8 Persons. 

Yolks of 8 eggs 1 cup of maple syrup 

2 tbsps. of water 1 qt. of whipped cream 

Preparation: The yolks of eggs and water are beaten 15 
minutes, add the syrup, let it come to a boil in a double boiler, 
stirring constantly. Let it cool, add the wlhipped cream, pour 
into a mold, close the mold and pack in ice with salt. 



— 277 — 

No. 126— ROLL DUMPLINGS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 rolls % cup of sugar 2 — 3 eggs 1 pinch of salt 

1 piece of butter, (egg size) 4 qts. of water mixed with 1 tbsp. 

1 cup of flour of salt 

Preparation: The rolls must be soaked in water or milk 
and the liquid pressed out. Cream the butter with the eggs 
and sugar, then mix all this with the soaked rolls, flour and 
salt. Now boil 4 qts. of water with one tablespoonful of salt, 
cut off dumplings from t!he batter with a tablespoon, drop in- 
to the boiling salt water and boil them 10 minutes. Always 
try one dumpling first, if too loose, mix a little more flour into 
the batter. 

No. 127— BETTER KIND OF ROLL DUMPLINGS. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
6 rolls % lb. of blanched, ground 

3 eggs almonds 

% lb. of butter Rind of % lemon 

% cup of sugar A pinch of salt 

% cup of currants % cup of flour 4 qts. of salt water 

Preparation: The rolls must be soaked in milk and the 
milk pressed out. Cream the butter with the yolks of eggs 
and sugar, add the almonds, currants, grated lemon rind, rolls, 
flour and salt. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir 
into the mixture. Let the 4 qts. of salt water boil, cut off 
dumplings from the batter with a tablespoon, drop into the 
boiling salt water and boil them 10 minutes. 

Remarks: Always try one dumpling first, if too loose, 
mix a little more flour into the batter. 



No. 12&— LEMON ICE GARNISHED WITH FRUIT 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 

1 pt. of milk 6 boiled prunes 

Juice of 1 lemon 6 tsps. of whipped cream 

1% cupfuls of sugar 6 tsps. of brandied cherries 

6 slices of canned pineapple % cupful of fruit juice 

6 preserved apricots cut in half 

Preparation: Mix the milk, lemon juice and sugar, but 
do not freeze. On each dessert plate put a slice of pineapple, 
on this the half of an apricot, a prune on the apricot, then a 
teaspoonful of wlhipped cream, finishing with the brandied 
cherries, adding a small piece of lemon ice to the fruit. Mix 
some of the pineapple and apricot juice, boil with sugar and 

2 tablespoonfuls of sherry until it thickens. Add 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of this sauce to each plate of dessert. 



— 278 — 

CHAPTER 18. 

BEVERAGES. 



Cold and Hot Beverages. 

No. 1— COLD PUNCH. 

2 bottles of white wine Juice of 3 lemons 

% bottle of arrack 1 lb. of sugar 1 thin lemon rind 

Preparation: The ingredients are mixed well, put into a 
punch bowl and covered to stand several hours. 



No. 2— HOT PUNCH. 

1 bottle of fine rum Juice of 2 lemons 

1 bottle of white wine Rind of 1 lemon 

1 % lbs. sugar 2 % qts. of boiling water 

Preparation : The punch bowl is put into 'hot water. Pour 
into it 1 pt. of boiling water, sugar and lemon rind and let 
stand for a while, then add white wine, rum, lemon juice and 

2 qts. of hot water, stir with a wooden ladle and serve hot. 



No. 3— HOT KING'S PUNCH. 

1 bottle of white wine % lemon peel 

1 pt. fine rum % lb. of sugar 

Juice of 1 lemon 1 qt. of water 

Preparation: Mix the ingredients, boil and serve hot. 

No. 4r-PRESIDENT'S PUNCH. 

Cold or Warm. 

1 bottle of fine white wine % lb. of sugar 

1 wineglassful of fine rum % lb. of preserved pineapple 

3 pts. of water 1 cup of pineapple juice 

Preparation: Sugar and water are boiled 15 minutes, then 
wine, rum, pineapple juice and preserved pineapple added. This 
punch is served hot or put on ice and served cold. 



No. 5— EGG PUNCH. 

1 bottle of white wine % lemon rind 

% pt. of arrack Juice of 1 % lemon 

1% cups of sugar 7 eggs 

Preparation: Mix white wine, sugar, lemon juice and 
rind, add the well beaten eggs and bring to a boil, beating con- 
stantly, then take from the stove and mix in the arrack. Serve 
at once. 



— 279 — 

No. 6— WARM BURGUNDY PUNCH. 

% bottle of Burgundy wine 2 oranges 

% bottle of good white wine % bottle German champagne 

% bottle of arrack ^4 lb. of sugar 

% pt. pineapple juice Vi pt. of water 

Preparation: Sugar, water, Burgundy wine, white wine, 
arrack and pineapple juice are mixed well and heated but not 
boiled. The orange is sliced with the peel and put into the 
bowl, then the hot fluid is poured in and the champagne added 
at the table. 

No. 7— HOT WINE. 
1 bottle of red wine 10 cloves 

% lb. of sugar 1 stick of cinnamon % lemon rind 

Preparation : The ingredients are mixed well and brought 
to the boiling point, but not boiled, strained and served hot. 



No. 8— GROG. 

% pt. of rum Liberal ^ lb. of sugar % qt. of boiling water 

Preparation: Mix the ingredients and serve at once. 



No. 9— BISHOP. 

1 tbsp. of Bishop essence, or the thin peel of a small orange 
1 bottle of red wine % lb. of sugar % cup of water 

Preparation: The sugar is dissolved in the red wine and 
the Bishop essence mixed in or the orange peel is soaked in 
water for % Ihour and mixed with the wine. 



No. 10— CARDINAL, (COLD). 

2 bottles of good white wine 1 bottle of champagne 

Juice of 2 oranges 1 lb. of sugar 

% lb. of fresh pineapple % orange peel 

Preparation: The pineapple is cut into small pieces, put 
into a bowl, the piece of orange peel and juice, with the sugar 
added and left to stand 15 minutes, then the white wine is 
poured on. Put the beverage on ice and when serving, add the 
champagne. 

No. 11— CREAM PUNCH. 
5 eggs 1 Vz qts. of whipped cream 

% lb. of sugar % pt. of arrack. 

Preparation: Yolks of eggs and sugar are beaten to a 
froth, the arrack mixed in, tihe beaten whites of eggs added 
and lastly whipped cream. Serve this punch in glasses or 
tumblers. 



— 280 — 

No. 12— PINEAPPJjE PUNCH. 

1 large, fresh pineapple 2 bottles of white wine 

% lb. of sugar % bottle of champagne 

Preparation: The pineapple is peeled and sliced very- 
thin. The sugar is added, % bottle of the wine poured over 
and let stand several hours, then add the rest of the wine and 
wlhen serving, pour in the champagne. 

Remarks: Instead of the champagne you may put in a 
small bottle of Seltzer-water. 



No. 13— STRAWBERRY PUNCH. 

2 qts. of fresh strawberries 2 bottles of white wine 

Scant % lb. of sugar 

The preparation is the same as No. 13, Pineapple Punch. 
If you like you may add % bottle of champagne. 



No. 14— RASPBERRY WINE. 

Raspberries and sugar Light white wine 

Preparation : The berries are crushed and strained through 
a cloth. With 1 qt. of raspberry juice, use 2 lbs. of sugar and 
2 qts. of white wine and let it come to a boil. Cool it and fill 
into bottles tihat are well corked and kept in a cool place. 



No. 15— PEACH PUNCH. 

3 lbs. of peaches 2 bottles of white wine 
Vz lb. of sugar 1 bottle of red wine 

Preparation: The peaches are peeled and sliced, put into 
a bowl with sugar, 14 bottle of white wine and let stand 3 to 

4 hours. Then pour on the rest of the white wine and red 
wine and serve very cold. 



No. 16— MAY BOWL OR WOODRUFF PUNCH. 

2 bottles of white wine About 1/20 lb. of woodruff 

Vi lb. of sugar 

Preparation : One-half bottle of white wine is poured on 
the woodruff. Cover the bowl and let stand several hours. 
Then add the rest of the wine and sugar. Place the bowl on 
ice. 

Remarks: This May bowl may be improved by mixing 
a bottle of champagne and 1 cup&il of strawberries with it 
when serving. 



— 281 — 

No. 17— CURRANT WINE. 

10 qts. of currant juice 15 lbs. of sugar 
20 qts. of water 1 qt. corn brandy- 
Preparation: Red and white currants are mashed and 
strained through a cloth. To 10 qts. of juice, add 15 lbs. of 
sugar and 20 qts. of water. Put it into a clean cask, and leave 
it to ferment for 3 weeks. After that time empty the cask, 
clean it well, then pour back the wine and leave it two weeks 
longer, then add the brandy. Now close up the cask tightly 
and place it so that it need not be moved when the wine is 
drawn off. Bottle the wine after six months, without moving 
the cask. 

No. 18— WARMBEER. 

1 qt. beer % pt. of milk 

Sugar to taste 3 yolks of eggs 

A piece of butter the size of an 1 piece of cinnamon 

egg 

Preparation : Beer, sugar and butter are brouglht to boil ; 
then milk and yolks of eggs are mixed well and added ; season 
with cinnamon, let all come to a boil and serve hot. 



No. 19— COLD LEMONADE. 
1 qt. of cold water Juice of 1 lemon 

% cup of sugar 

Preparation: Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the 
lemon juice, mix well and serve very cold. 



No. 20— FINE LEMONADE. 
1 qt. of cold water Juice of 1 orange 

Sugar 2 bananas 

Juice of % lemon 

Preparation: Dissolve the sugar in the water, mix in the 
lemon and orange juice and pour the whole over the sliced 
bananas. 

No. 21— ALMOND MILK. 

% lb. sweet almonds Scant % lb. of sugar 

1% qts. of water 4 tbsps. of rose water 

Preparation: The almonds are blanched and ground, then 
put into a porcelain dish. Add the water and sugar and let 
stand 20 minutes, then strain through a cloth and add the rose 
water. 



— 282 — 

No. aa— CHOCOLATE. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
% lb. of chocolate Sugar to taste 

% cup of water 1 % qts. of milk 

Preparation: The chocolate is broken into pieces and dis- 
solved in the water on the stove, the milk is added and brougfht 
to boil. Mix in sugar to suit your taste. 

Remarks: You may stir in 2 yolks of eggs. Plain choco- 
late is made by using more water and mixing 1 tablespoonful 
of flour wibh water and adding this to the chocolate while 

cooking. 

No. 23— ICE CHOCOLATE. 

Ingredients and preparation are the same as given under 
No. 22, Chocolate. When cooled off, strain througlh a sieve, add 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla, place into ice and salt for 3 hours and 
serve in tumblers or sherbet cups with whipped cream on top. 

No. 24^COCOA. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
4 tbsps. of cocoa % tsp. of vanilla 

1 Vz qts. of milk Sugar to taste 2 yolks of eggs 

Preparation: The cocoa is stirred smooth with milk, add 
the sugar, let it get hot, stirring constantly. Add the rest of 
the milk, cook 1 minute and add the vanilla. Mix the yolks of 
eggs well with one tablespoonful of milk and stir into the 
cocoa. 

Remarks: You may omit the yolks of eggs and instead 
stir a tablespoonful of flour, mixed with water, into the boiling 

cocoa. 

No. 25— TEA. 
Enough for 12 cups. 
8 even tsps. of tea 2 qts. of water 

Preparation: The tea is put into a well covered pot. Pour 
on 1 pt. of boiling water, cover and let it steep 3 minutes, then 
pour on the rest of the water and set to draw again 5 minutes 

before serving. 

No. 26— TEA WITH VANILLA. 

Ingredients and preparation are the same as given under 
No. 25, Tea. But add to this ^2 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Remarks : You may add a small piece of lemon peel when 
pouring on the water. 

Dried tea leaves may be used for sweeping carpets. 
Moisten the leaves and sprinkle them on the carpet. This 
will clean the carpet and absorb the dust when sweeping. 



— 283 — 

No. 27— ICED TEA. 

The ingredients and preparation are the same as g^iven 
under No. 25, Tea. After the tea has steeped long enough, 
pour it off, cool it and put in pieces of clean ice, sugar and 
into each glass 1 to 3 slices of lemon. 



No.28— COFFEE. 

Enough for 12 cups. 
6 tbsps. of ground coffee 14 cups of boiling water 

Preparation: It is best to grind the coffee fresh and fine 
every time you wish to make some. The water must boil 
when you pour it on. Close the pot well. 

Remarks: There are various ways of making coflfee. A. 
An egg may be stirred into the ground coffee before pouring 
on the hot water. B. It may be made in a machine in which 
^e water boils and little water gets onto the coffee at a time, 
kbis is the best way. C. Pour the hot water on the coffee, 
Bimer 5 minutes and strain. This is the quickest way of 
^Kking coffee. 

No. 29— GOOSEBERRY OR CURRANT WINE. 

For a 6 gallon cask use 18 lbs. 3 — 4 gallons of juice 
of sugar Water to fill the cask 

Clean and pick over the berries, wash them and press out 
the juice well. The cask must be very clean and odorless. 
Scald it several times and then dry it in the fresh air, put in 
the sugar and enough water to dissolve it while shaking the 
cask. When the sugar is dissolved, add the strained juice. 
Place the cask into a place like the garret where it is warm. 
It will soon ferment, then remove the foam from the bunghole 
every morning, stir the wine with a clean wooden stick and 
fill in fresh water so the cask remains full. After about 6 
weeks the fermenting will cease, then close the bunghole with 
a cork, leave it in the cask another 3 to 4 months and then put 
the wine into bottles. Cork and seal them well and set them 
upright in the cellar, where it is dark and cold. 



— 284 — 

CHAPTER 19. 

BREAD AND CAKES. 



No. 1— WHEAT BREAD No. 1. 

Enough lor 2 Loaves. 
8 cups of wheat flour 1 % cents' worth of yeast 

1 pt. of milk 1 pt. of water 2 tbsps. of salt 

Preparation: The 4 cups of flour are put into a mixing 
bowl, lukewarm milk and water added and mixed into a 
smooth batter. The yeast is dissolved and stirred in y^ cup of 
milk and mixed into the batter; sprinkle a little flour over it 
and put the sponge in a warm place to rise. If the pan is i^ 
full, it, must rise to half fill the pan. Put in the salt and the 
rest of the flour, knead the dough for 15 minutes and put into 
two greased bread pans to rise again. If the pans are half full, 
the bread must rise to the brim of the pan. Brush the top of 
the bread with cold water and bake it in medium hot oven for 

45 minutes. 

No. 2— WHEAT BREAD No. 2. 
Enough lor 2 Loaves. 
8 cups of flour 1 Vz cents' worth of yeast 

1 qt. of milk 2 tbsps. of salt 1 tbsp. of lard 

The preparation is the same as given under No. 1. When 
the second part of the flour is kneaded into the dough, work 
in 1 tablespoonful of lard. 

Remarks : You may take butter instead of lard. One cup 
of boiled and grated potatoes may be mixed with the flour. 



No. 3— RYE BREAD WITH LEAVEN. 

Enough for 2 Loaves. 

11 cups of rye flour 2 tbsps. of salt 

1 qt. of water 1 tsp. of caraway seed if you like 

3 cents' worth of leaven 

Preparation: Mix 4 cups of flour with lukewarm water, 
then add the leaven or yeast, strew a little flour over and set 
to rise to double its bulk. Then knead in the salt and caraway 
seed and the rest of the flour and continue kneading for 30 
minutes. Make two loaves and put them into greased pans 
and set to rise again to twice its size, brush it with cold water 
and bake 1 hour. 



— 285 — 

No..4^RYE BREAD WITH YEAST. 

Enough for 2 Loaves. 
11 cups of rye flour 2 cents' worth of yeast. 

1 Qt. of water 1 tsp. of caraway seed if desired 2 tbsps. of salt 
The preparation is the same as given under No. 3, using 
yeast instead of leaven. Dissolve the yeast in i/4 cup of luke- 
warm water and mix it with the flour. 



No. 5— HEALTH BREAD OR GROATS BREAD. 

Enough lor 2 Loaves. 
8 — 9 cups of coarse meal or 1% tbsps. of salt 

flour (groats) 2 cents' worth of yeast. 

1 qt. of water 

Preparation: Sift 4 cups of flour and mix it to a smooth 
batter with lukewarm water and yeast that is dissolved in 1/4 
cup of water, then set the sponge to rise. After this mix in 
the salt and knead the rest of the flour in and continue knead- 
ing 20 minutes. Form two loaves and put them into greased 
pans, then set them to rise again to twice their size. Bake % 
ll 1 hour in medium hot oven. 

" No. 6— BREAD STICKS. 

Quantity lor 6 Persons. 
Ingredients and preparation are given under Chapter 1, 
Soups, No. 16, Bread Sticks. 



No. 7— BISCUIT. 

Quantity for 10 Persons. 
4 % cups of flour % lb. of butter 

1 pt. of milk 1 egg 

1% cents' worth of yeast % tsp. of salt 

Preparation: Mix 2 cups of flour to a smooth batter with 
the lukewarm milk and the yeast dissolved in 14 cup of the 
lukewarm milk, then set to rise in a warm place. Mix in the 
melted butter, egg and salt and beat the batter 20 minutes, 
then add the rest of the flour. Roll out the dough to about 
% inch thickness, cut out biscuits with a tumbler, fold them 
half over or leave them round, put them into floured or greased 
tins, set to rise and bake them to a nice color. 

Riemarks: If you wish sw.eet biscuits, stir in Yz cup of 
sugar. The dough must be beaten 20 minutes. 



— 286 — 

No. 8— COFFEE CAKK 

Enough for 2 Cakes. 
3% — 4 cups of flour V* lb. of sugar 

1 pt. of milk 3 eggs 

Vi lb. of butter 1 cent yeast 

% grated lemon rind 

Preparation: The milk is made lukewarm and stirred to 
a smooth batter with 31/4 cups of flour, then the yeast dissolved 
in 1/4 cup of lukewarm, milk is mixed in quickly and put in a 
warm place to rise. After the sponge has risen well, mix in the 
melted butter, sugar, grated lemon rind, the eggs and the rest 
of the flour, stir the dough thoroughly with a spoon. Butter 
3 tins and put in the dough about 1 inch thick, then set to rise ; 
after this strew on sugar, cinnamon and put on small pieces of 
butter and some chopped almonds. Bake in medium hot oven 



No. 9— STREUSBL COFFEE CAKE. 

Preparation of the Streusel. 
A piece of butter the size of an 1 % cups of sugar 

egg % cup of ground almonds 

% cup of flour Yeast dough like No. 8 

1 tsp. of cinnamon 

Preparation: The dough is prepared as given under No. 
8, Coffee Cake. Instead of strewing on sugar, cinnamon and 
pieces of butter, you make sugar crumbs as follows : Melt 
the butter, mix flour, sugar, cinnamon and almonds with it 
and rub to crumbs with the hands. Sprinkle over the cakes 
before baking. 

No. 10— SCHNBCKEN (SNAILS). 
Yeast dough like No. 8 
For the Filling. 
% lb. of butter % cup of blanched, ground 

1 cup of sugar almonds 

1 cup of currants 

Preparation: The preparation is the same as given under 
No. 8, Coffee Cake. Stir in 1 cup of flour more than given in 
No. 8, roll out the dough to 1 inch thickness, strew it with 
sugar, cinnamon, currants, almonds, sprinkle with melted but- 
ter, roll it up carefully and cut slices off to make the snails. 
Place these into a buttered tin and set to rise about ^2 hour. 
Then bake them in a medium. hot oven, brush them while hot 
with melted butter and sprinkle with sugar. 



—287— 

No. 11— FILLED BERLINER PANCAKES OR 
STUFFED DOUGHNUTS. 
Yeast dough, according to No. 8 Lard for baking 

Jelly for filling 
Preparation: The dough is prepared like No. 8, Coffee 
Cake, but 1 cup of flour more is kneaded in than given under 
No. 8. Roll out the douglh % inch thick, cut out small disks 
with a tumbler, put on one disk some jelly or thick apple 
sauce, place another disk on top and fasten the two by press- 
ing the dough together all around, leave them on a floured 
board or tin and set to rise. Heat the lard in an iron kettle 
and put in a few Berliners at a time and bake them golden 
yellow. They must be fried in deep fat. Prick them with a 
knitting needle to see whether the dough is baked enough. 
While hot, roll them in sugar. 

No. 12— WREATH CAKE. 

1 lb. of flour 1% cents yeast 

% cup of butter 2 tbsps. of vanilla 

4 eggs % cup of milk V4, lb. of sugar 

1^ Preparation: Cream the butter, stir in the eggs, sugar 
■anilla, the yeast wihich has been dissolved in 1/2 cup of luke- 
B-arm milk and the flour. Roll out the dough quite thick, cut 
^ree strips of it and braid it. Then make a wreath of this 

braid and put it into a buttered pan to rise in a warm place. 

Brush it with yolks of eggs, strew sugar on and bake in a hot 

oven to a nice color. 

No. 13— ROUND COFFEE CAKE No. 1. 

1 lb. of flour % lemon peel 

% lb. of butter 1% cents yeast 

% lb. of sugar 3 eggs 1 cup at milk 

Preparation: Cream the butter witlh sugar and eggs. The 
yeast is dissolved in 1 cup of lukewarm milk and mixed in, 
also the grated % lemon peel ; then stir in the flour and beat 
the dough well for 20 minutes. Butter a round cake pan with 
tube, fill in the dough to half full and let it rise in a warm 
place to the top of the pan. Then bake it 1 hour. 

No. 14r— ROUND COFFEE CAKE WITH RAISINS. 

4 cups of flour % lemon peel 

1 pt. of milk 1 cup of sugar 

3 eggs 1 cup of raisins 

Scant % lb. of butter 2 cents yeast 

Preparation: Let the milk get lukewarm and stir to_ a 
smooth batter with 214 cups of flour, mix with the yeast dis- 



—288— 

solved in 1^4 cup of lukewarm milk. Set the sponge to rise in 
a warm' place, then stir in the melted butter, eggs, sugar, 
grated lemon peel, raisins and the rest of the flour, beat this 
dough well for 10 minutes. Butter a round cake pan with 
tube, fill it half full and set to rise in a warm place until the 
pan is full, then bake to a nice color for % to 1 hour. 

No. 15— STO'LLEN. 

Sufficient for 2 — 3 Cakes. 
1 qt. of milk % lb. of blanched, ground 

6 cents yeast almonds 

12 to 15 cups of flour % lb. of bitter, blanched, ground 

1 lb. of sugar almonds 

1 lb. of butter % cup of brandy 

6 eggs 1 % lbs. of raisins ^ lb. of cut citron 

Prepjiration : Warm the milk and stir into a smooth bat- 
ter with 41^ cups of flour, add the yeast dissolved in % cup 
of lukewarm milk and set the sponge to rise. Stir in the melt- 
ed butter, sugar, eggs, raisins, citron, sweet and bitter al- 
monds, brandy and the rest of the flour to make a pretty stiff 
dough. Knead it until it will not adhere to the hands. Cut 
the dough into 3 or 3 parts, as many "stollen" as you wish to 
have, and S'hape them nice and round, then set to rise in a warm 
place. Butter a pan for each cake, double up the dough, place 
it into the pan and set to rise again. Bake in a medium oven. 
If the cakes are large, bake them 3 hours, if small, 1% hours. 
As soon as you take them out of the ov.en, brush them with 
butter and strew them with sugar. These cakes must be pre- 
pared in a warm place. ■■ 

No. 16— APPLE CAKE. 

Yeast dough like No. 8 Sugar 

Sweet-sour apples Cinnamon 

For Frosting. 

% cup of cream ' 2 eggs % cup of sugar 

Preparation: The dough is' prepared like No. 8, Coffee 
Cake. Butter some pans and spread the dough out in them 
1/4 inch thick, then set to rise in a warm place. 

Peel and slice the apples, place them on the dough in 
rows, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, then bake. After 
the cake is baked, spread the frosting on. The frosting is 
made by mixing cream, yolks of eggs, sugar and beaten whites 
of eggs; spread it on the cakes and bake them 10 minutes 
longer. 

Remarks : The frosting is sufficient for 1 small cake. The 
dough will make 4 to 5 cakes, according to size. 



— 289 — 

No. 17— CHERRY CAKE. 

Yeast dough like No. 8 Sugar 

Stoned sweet-sour cherries Frosting like No. 16 

Preparation: The dougih is prepared like No. 8, Coffee 
Cake. Put the dougfh, about i/^ inch thick, into buttered pans 
and set to rise in a warm place. The cherries and the sugar 
are put on thick, then the cake is baked in a hot oven. After 
taking it out, spread on the frosting which has been prepared 
according to No. 16, A'pple Cake, and bake 10 minutes longer. 
This cake may be prepared without the frosting. 

No. 18— PLUM CAKE. 

Yeast dough like No. 8 Sugar 

Stoned plums Frosting like No. 16 

The preparation is the same as given under No. 17. 

No. 19— CHEESE CAKE. 

Yeast dough like No. 8 3 eggs 

1% lbs. cottage cheese % tsp. of vanilla 

% pt. of cream 1 pinch of salt 

% lb. of sugar % lb. of butter 

^ Preparation: The dough is prepared according to No. 8. 
teutter some pans, spread the dough out in them 1/4 inch thick 
^md set to rise. During this time prepare the cheese. The 
^myttage cheese, cream, sugar, eggs, salt and vanilla are mixed 
^vell and spread over the dough quite thick. The butter is 

melted and sprinkled over the cheese, then the cake is baked 

to a nice color. 

Remarks: You may mix into the c'heese % cup of currants. 

No. 20— CURRANT CAKE. 

Yeast dough like No. 8 Sugar 

Currants Frosting like No. 16 

The preparation and baking are just the same as given 
under No. 17, Cherry Cake. 

No. 21— POPPY SEED CAKE. 

Yeast dough like No. 8 % lb. of sugar 

2 lbs. of poppy seed 3 eggs 

3 juicy pears Vs lb. of butter 

Preparation: The dough is prepared according to No. 8 
and spread out in buttered pans about i/4 inch thick, then set 
to rise in a warm place. The poppy seed is scalded and the 
water drained off. The pears are peeled and grated into the 
poppy seed, sugar and eggs are mixed in. Spread the poppy 
seed mixture thick on the doug'h, sprinkle melted butter on 
and bake % hour. 



— 290 — 

No. 22— HUCKLEBERRY CAKE. 

Yeast dough like No. 8 Sugar 

Huckleberries Frosting according to No. 16 

Preparation: The dough is prepared as given under No. 
8, spread out in buttered pans about 1/4 inch thick, then set to 
rise in a warm place. The berries are strewn on thick and 
sprinkled with sugar. Bake it and if you wish, spread the 
frosting on according to No. 16. 



No. 23— ONION CAKE. 

Yeast dough like No. 8 2 sweet-sour apples 

6 peeled onions % lb. of butter % lb. of sugar 

Preparation : The dough is prepared as given under No. 8, 
spread out in buttered pans about ^ inch thick and set to rise 
in a warm place. The onions are peeled, sliced and stewed a 
little in % lb. of butter, to which the peeled and finely chopped 
apples are added. Strew sugar on the dough and spread on 
the onions mixed with apples i/4 indh thick, sprinkle with 
sugar, then with the melted butter and bake to a nice golden 
color. 

Remarks: The apples may be omitted. 



No. 24— COFFEE CAKE WITH EGG CREAM. 

Yeast dough like No. 8 11 eggs 

% lb. of butter % lb. of sugar 

Preparation: The dough is prepared as given under No. 
8, rolled out to i/4 inch thickness and put into buttered pans to 
rise in a warm place. Melt the butter and stir with the eggs 
to a tlhick cream. This cream is spread thickly on the dough 
and the cake baked quickly in a hot oven. When the cake is 
done, put on quite a little butter and sprinkle with plenty of 
sugar. 

Baking Powder Cakes. 
No. 25— COFFEE CAKE WITH ALMOND FROSTING. 

% cup of butter 4 eggs 

1% cups of sugar Juice and rind of 1 lemon 

1 cup of milk 2 heaping tsps. of baking powder 

3 cups of flour 

For the Frosting. 
1 cup of almonds 1 cup of sugar 

% cup of melted butter 1 tsp. of cinnamon 

Preparation: Cream the butter, stir in sugar, lemon juice 
and rind, gradually mix in yolks of eggs, milk and flour. Last- 
ly add the baking powder and the beaten whites of eggs. 



— 291 — 



Spread this batter out 1 inch thick into buttered pans, sprinkle 
with sugar, cinnamon and blanched almonds cut into narrow 
strips, sprinkle butter over and bake to a nice color. 



No. 26— cofp:£e cake with chocolate 

FROSTING. 

The batter according to No. 25 1 tsp. of vanilla 

% 11). of chocolate 3 tbsps. of cold water 

% lb. of sugar 1 white of egg 

Preparation : The batter is prepared and baked as in No. 
25. Dissolve the chocolate over the fire in the water, add 
sugar and vanilla and stir until it becomes stringy. Now mix 
the beaten whites of eggs with it and spread on the cake when 

it is baked. 

No. 27— ROUND COFFEE CAKE No. 2. 

Ingredients and preparation are given under No. 35. Put 
the batter into a round cake pan with tube and bake it % hour. 



No. 28— STIRRED CAKE. 

% cup of butter Juice of % lemon 

1 % cups of powdered sugar 1 % tsps. of baking powder 

2 cups of flour 6 whites of eggs 

( Preparation: Cream the butter and mix with sugar, lemon 
juice and flour, add 1^/2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder and 
the beaten whites of eggs. Put in a buttered pan and bake i/^ 

to % hour. 

No. 29— LAYER CAKE WITH CHOCOLATE. 

% lb. of butter % lb. of flour 

% lb. of sugar 2 heaping tsps. of baking powder 

6 eggs % lb. of chocolate 

For the Filling. 
% cup of cream 1 % tsps. of vanilla 

3 eggs 4 tbsps. of sugar 

Preparation: Cream the butter, then mix with sugar, 
yolks of eggs, flour, and lastly the baking powder and beaten 
whites of eggs. The chocolate is grated and mixed with one- 
half of tihe batter. Bake in four layers, 3 light or yellow ones 
and 2 dark ones containing chocolate. 

The filling is made by mixing well : cream, yolks of eggs, 
vanilla and sugar and cooking it in a double boiler to a thick 
cream, stirring constantly. Let it get cold, mix with the 
beaten whites of eggs and spread it between the layers, putting 
them together light and dark alternately. The cake may be 
covered with a chocolate frosting. 



— 292 — 

No. 30^LAYBR CAKE WITH JELLY FILLING. 

% lb. of butter % lb. of flour 

% lb. of sugar 2 heaping tsps. of baking powder 

5 eggs Jelly for the filling 

Preparation : Cream the butter witft sugar, add the yolks 
of eggs, then gradually work in the flour, baking powder and 
beaten whites of eggs. Bake in three layers and when these 
are cooled ofif, spread jelly over tlhem and place one on the 
other. If you like, cover the cake with a white frosting. 

No. 31— LAYER CAKE WITH BANANA FILLING. 

1 cup of butter 6 eggs 

2 cups of sugar % cup of milk 

2 Yz cups of flour 2 heaping tsps. of baking powder 

For the Filling. 

4 — 5 peeled and sliced bananas % cup of sugar 

Preparation : Cream the butter with the sugar and yolks 
of eggs ; gradually add the milk and the flour, and lastly the 
baking powder and beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 4 layers 
and when these are cooled, spread the sugared, sliced bananas 
between the layers and cover the cake witih white frosting. 

No. Sa— LAYER CAKE WITH COCOANUT 
FILLING. No. 1. 

1 cup of butter 1 cup of milk 

2 cups of sugar 2 Va- cups of flour 

4 yolks of eggs 2 heaping tsps. of baking powder 

2 whites of eggs 

For the Filling. 
% lb. of cocoanut % cup of sugar 

2 whites of .eggs 1 tsp. of vanilla 

Preparation : Cream the butter with the sugar, add yolks 
of eggs and the milk and gradually stir in the flour. Lastly 
add the baking powder and beaten "whites of eggs. Bake in 
three layers and prepare the filling in the meantime. Mix the 
beaten whites of eggs with sugar, cocoanut and vanilla and 
spread between the layers as well as on and over the whole 

cake. 

No. 33— SPONGE CAKE. 

4 eggs 1 cup of sugar 1 cup of flour 

1 pinch of salt 1 tsp. of vanilla or lemon juice 5 tsps. of milk 

1 heaping tsp. of baking powder 

For the Filling. 
% cup of milk 1 tsp. of vanilla or essence of lemon 

4 tbsps. of sugar 2 eggs 1 tsp. of flour 

Preparation : Cream the sugar and yolks of eggs and add 



— 293 — 

milk, vanilla and % cup of flour. To the beaten whites of 
eggs stir I/2 cup of flour and mix it with the rest, then add salt 
and baking powder. Bake in two layers and prepare the fill- 
ing in the meantime. Milk, yolks of eggs, sugar and vanilla 
are mixed well and cooked to a thick cream in a double boiler, 
stirring constantly. When this is cooled off, mix in the beaten 
whites of eggs and spread the filling between the layers. Put 
a cocoanut frosting on the cake. 



No. 34— GOLD CAKE. 

1 cup of butter 3 V2 cups of flour 

2 cups of sugar 1 ^ heaping tsps. of baking 
6 yolks of eggs powder 

1 cup of milk 1 tsp. of vanilla to taste 

Preparation: Cream the butter and mix with sugar, yolks 
of eggs and vanilla, then add milk and gradually the flour and 
lastly the baking powder. Butter a cake pan, fill in the dough 

and b'ake 1 hour. 

No. 35— SILVER CAKE. 
V2 eup of butter % cup of corn starch 

1% cups of sugar 1 tbsp. of vanilla 

1 cup of milk 2 heaping tsps. of baking powder 

1% cups of flour 6 whites of eggs 

Preparation: Cream the butter and sugar, add vanilla, 
milk, gradually the corn starch, then baking powder and last- 
ly the beaten whites of eggs.' Put into a buttered pan and 

bake 1 hour. 

No. 36— THEATER CAKE. 

1 tbsp. of butter 1 tsp. of lemon essence or 

2 cups of sugar vanilla 

1 egg 1 cup of milk 

1 % tsps. of baking powder 1 % cups of flour 

Preparation: Cream the butter with sugar, yolks of eggs 
and vanilla; add the milk, then flour, baking powder and the 
beaten whites of eggs. Put into a buttered pan and bake % 

hour. 

No. 37— FLAT CAKE. 
1 lb. of butter 1% lemon peels 

1 lb. of sugar 2 lbs. of flour 

8 eggs 1 heaping tsp. of salt of hartshorn 

Juice of 2 lemons A little cardamom 

Preparation: The butter is melted, yolks of eggs and 
sugar are put in and stirred to a cream. Add the grated lemon 
peel and juice, cardamom and gradually work in the flour. Mix 
the salt of hartshorn with a little flour and stir it in. Lastly 



— 294 — 

mix in the well beaten whites of eggs and spread the dough 
out in buttered pans about 2 inches thick. Sprinkle with sugar, 
cinnamon and ground almonds and bake to a nice color. 

No. 38— POTATO CAKE OR TART. 

1 lb. boiled, peeled, grated % lb. blanched, ground almonds 

potatoes 14 eggs 1 lb. of sugar Juice and rind of 2 lemons 

Preparation: The yolks of eggs and sugar are beaten to 
a cream ; then grated lemon rind and juice, the ground al- 
monds, potatoes and beaten whites of eggs mixed in. Butter 
a round, loose bottom pan and strew with bread crumbs, put 
the batter in and bake slowly for 1 to l^/^ hours. 

Remarks: Tarts, so-called in Europe, differ very much 
from the dainties similarly designated in this country. The 
former are more like our American pies, but without an upper 
crust. Sometimes tihey have narrow strips of crust laid in the 
form of lattice work across the top. 

No. 39— RICE CAKE OR TART. 

1 lb. of rice % lb. of butter 

2% qts. of milk % lb. of sugar 

12 eggs 1 lb. of raisins 1 tsp. of cinnamon 

Preparation: The rice is washed and partly cooked in 
milk, but do not stir it, for the kernels must stay whole. Cool 
the rice. Cream the butter and sugar, add raisins and cinna- 
mon, then the rice and lastly the beaten whites of eggs. But- 
ter a round, loose bottom cake pan, strew with bread crumbs, 
put the batter in and bake slowly. 

No. 40— STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

% cup of butter 3 eggs 

% cup of sugar 2 cups of flour 

% cup of milk 2 heaping tsps. of baking powder 

For the Filling. 

2 — 3 qts. of strawberries Sugar to taste 

1 pt. of whipped cream 1 tsp. of vanilla 

Preparation: Cream the butter with sugar, yolks of eggs 
and milk, gradually work in the flour and baking powder and 
lastly the beaten whites of eggs. The dough is baked in 2 
layers, each being 1% inches thick. When they are cool, 
spread between the layers and on top crus^hed strawberries 
mixed with sugar and on this the whipped cream mixed with 
sugar and vanilla. 

Remarks: After the whipped cream is on the strawberry 
short cake, it must be served at once. 



—295— 

No. 41— DEVIL'S FOOD. 

For the First Half. 
% cup of butter 1 egg 

% cup of milk 2 yolks of eggs 

1 cup of brown sugar 1 tsp. of soda 

2 cups of flour 

For the Second Half. 
1 cup of brown sugar % cup of milk 

1 cup of grated bitter chocolate 

For the Filling. 
The cream prepared according to No. 29 

Preparation: The first half is prepared by creaming the 
butter, mixing with sugar, egg and yolks of eggs. Dissolve 
the soda in milk and stir it into the mixture, then measure and 
sift the flour and add it gradually. 

The second half is prepared by putting the brown sugar, 
the bitter dhocolate and milk into a double boiler, to stew to 
a smooth cream which is set to cool. Now the first and second 
half are put together, mixed and baked in three layers. When 
these are cooled, make the cream according to No. 29, see 
Layer Cake with Chocolate, and spread between the layers. 
Cover the cake with a chocolate frosting. 



No. 42— ANGEL'S FOOD. 

9 whites of eggs 1 cup of the finest flour 

1 tsp. of cream of tartar 1 tsp. of vanilla 

1 cup of sugar 

Preparation: The w'hites of eggs are beaten to a stiff 
froth, the cream of tartar stirred in and also the sugar and 
vanilla. The flour is sifted 7 times and at last mixed with the 
other ingredients. Put into a buttered pan and bake slowly 
% hour. 



No. 43— YELLOW ANGEL'S FOOD. 

12 ounces of sugar 11 whites of eggs 

5 ounces of fine flour 6 yolks of eggs 

1 tsp. of cream of tartar 1 tsp. of vanilla 

Preparation: The sugar is sifted 4 times and stirred to 
a cream with yolks of eggs; add the beaten whites of eggs, 
cream of tartar and vanilla. Sift the flour 5 times and work it 
in. Put the batter into a buttered pan and bake slowly % to 
1 hour. 



— 296 — 

No. 44— FIG CAKE. 

% cup of butter % cup of corn starch 

2 cups of sugar 12 figs 

6 whites of eggs 3 heaping tsps. of baking powder 

1 cup of milk " 1 tsp. of cinnamon 

2 cups of flour 1 tsp. of cloves 

For the Frosting. 

3 whites of eggs 4 tbsps. of water 

1 tbsp. of sugar % lb. finely chopped almonds 

Preparation: Cream the butter, add the su^ar, milk, flour, 
baking powder and lastly the beaten whites of eggs. Divide 
the batter into 3 parts. Into the first part mix the cinnamon, 
cloves and chopped figs. Bake two light and one dark layer 
and arrange them with the dark layer in the middle. Prepare 
the frosting by beating the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and 
mixing it with 1 tablespoonful of sugar and 4 tablespoonfuls 
of water which have been boiled 5 minutes. The mixture is 
stirred until cool, the almonds are added and the frosting 
spread over the cake. ■ 

No. 45— LAYER CAKE WITH COCOANUT. No. 2. 

2/3 cup of butter 1 cup of corn starch 

2 cups of sugar 2 heaping tsps. of baking powder 7 whites of eggs 

For the Filling. 
Cream according to No. 29. 

For the Frosting. 

4 whites of eggs % cup of sugar % lb. of cocoanut 

Preparation : Cream the butter with sugar, then add flour 
and baking powder and the beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 
4 layers. Make the filling according to No. 39, Layer Cake 
With Chocolate, and when the layers are cool, spread the 
cream between them. Make the frosting from the beaten 
whites of eggs mixed with sugar, spread it- on the cake and 
sprinkle with grated cocoanut. 

No. 46— TEA CAKE. 

% lb. of sugar % lb. of blanched, grated almonds 

10 eggs Juice and rind of 1 lemon 

% lb. of fine flour 2 heaping tsps. of baking powder 

Preparation: The sugar and yolks of eggs are stirred 20 
minutes, the ground almonds added and the mixture stirred 
again 20 minutes. Now add lemon juice and grated lemon 
rind, the whites of eggs beaten to a froth, and then quickly stir 
in the flour. Lastly add the baking powder mixed with some 
of the flour. Put the batter into a buttered pan and bake 1 
hour. 

Remarks: In the beginning, the heat may be greater in 
the bottom of tihe oven than in the top. 



—297 — 

No. 47— SUNSHINE CAKE. 

5 eggs % tsp. of cream of tartar 
1 cup of sugar 1 tsp. of lemon juice 

% tsp. of salt % cup of flour 1 tsp. of orange juice 

Preparation: The yolks of eggs are stirred with sugar 
Yp, hour. The flour mixed with the cream of tartar is sifted 4 
times. Add salt, lemon and orange juice, the sifted flour and 
the whites of eggs beaten to a froth. Butter a pan and strew 
it with roll crumbs, put the batter in and bake 40 minutes in 
medium liot oven. 

No. 4&— FRUIT CAKE. 

1 lb. of butter 1 lb. of chopped citron 

1 lb. of brown sugar 1 chopped orange rind 
12 eggs V2 lb. of chopped figs 

1 V2 lbs. of flour % pt. of brandy 

6 tbsps. of molasses % pt. of white wine 

2 tsps. of soda % pt. of rose water 

4 lbs. of Sultana raisins % tsp. ground cloves 

3 lbs. of small raisins % tsp. mace and nutmeg 

Preparation: Cream the butter with sugar and yolks of 
eggs. Dissolve soda in molasses and mix it into the batter, 
add the brandy, white wine, rose water, ground cloves, mace, 
nutmeg, flour and lastly the beaten whites of eggs. Mix in the 
Sultana and the small raisins, citron, orange rind and figs. Line 
a pan with buttered paper, put the batter in and bake slowly 

for 2 hours. ■ 

No. 49— BREMER BLOCK. 
1 lb. washed butter V4, lb. of chopped citron 

% lb. of sugar % qt. warm milk 

1 lb. of seeded raisins 5 cents yeast 

% lb. of currants 3 tsps. of salt 

Vi lb. blanched, chopped almonds 3 lbs. of sifted flour 

Preparation: Cream^ the butter and sugar. Was'h the 
raisins and currants and put them in a warm place ; when real 
warm, mix them with the butter. Almonds and citron are 
next stirred in, then the warm milk, the yeast dissolved in % 
cup of warm milk, salt and flour. Put the dough into buttered 
pans, set to rise and bake ll^ to 3 hours. 



No. 50— PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. 

1 cup of butter Vz cup of molasses 

1 cup of brown sugar 1 % cups of black coffee 

1 cup of white sugar 3 eggs 

1 cup of raisins 4 cups of flour 

1 cup of currants 3 tsps. of saleratus 

Preparation: Cream the butter witih sugar and yolks of 



— 298 — 

eggs, add raisins, currants and saleratus dissolved in molasses ; 
then coffee, flour and lastly whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth. Put the batter into a pan lined with buttered paper 
and bake in a moderate oven 1 to 1^ hours. 

No. 51— BROWN SPICE CAKE No. 1. 

2 eggs 1 cup of raisins 

2 heaping tbsps. of lard 1 pinch of salt 

1 lb. best molasses 1 level tsp. baking soda 

1 lb. of brown sugar 1 heaping tsp. of cream of tartar 

1 tsp. of ground cloves 1 cup of sour milk or black coffee 

1 tsp. of cinnamon 4 cups of flour 

% grated nutmeg 

Preparation : The eggs are beaten thoroughly, lard heated 
a little, sugar, molasses, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, raisins and 
salt mixed in. The soda is dissolved in the milk or coffee and 
added. The cream^ of tartar is mixed into the flour, and this 
added gradually. Line a pan with buttered paper, put the bat- 
ter in and bake 1 to 1% hours in medium hot oven. 

No. 5»— NATRON OR CARBONATE OF SODA CAKE. 

Vi lb. of butter 10 bitter almonds 

2 cups of sugar 1 lb. of flour 

1 cup milk 1 Vz tsps. of cream of tartar 

5 eggs 1 tsp. of natron, (carbonate of 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon soda) 

% lb. of sweet almonds 

Preparation: Cream the butter, sugar and yolks of eggs, 
then add lemon juice and grated rind and the blanched, ground 
sweet and bitter almonds. The carbonate of soda and cream 
of tartar are mixed into the flour and this is gradually worked 
into the batter ; and lastly, stir in lightly tihe stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs. Put into a buttered pan and bake 1 hour. 

No. 53— LIGHTNING CAKE. 

^ lb. of sugar 1 grated lemon rind 

4 eggs % lb. of flour 

% lb. of butter 2 tsps. of baking powder 

For Sprinkling on the Cake. 
% lb. blanched, ground almonds 1 tsp. of cinnamon 
% cup of sugar 

Preparation: Cream the butter, sugar and yolks of eggs, 
add the lemon rind, flour mixed with baking powder and lastly 
the stififly beaten whites of eggs. Butter some pans, spread 
the dough out in them about % indh thick, sprinkle with al- 
monds, sugar and cinnamon. Bake in medium oven and while 
still warm, cut into nice pieces and serve warm. 



— 299 — 

No. 54— CARAWAY CAKE. 

% lb. of butter 3 eggs 

% cup of sugar % pt. of milk 

1 lb. of flour 1 tbsp. of caraway 

% lb. of raisins 1 tsp. of natron or soda 

Preparation: The butter and flour are rubbed tog^ether, 
raisins, sugar and caraway and the well beaten eggs stirred in. 
Boil the milk and dissolve the soda in it, let it get cold and stir 
into the dough. Put the batter into a buttered pan and bake 
% to 1 hour. 

No. 55— WIT CAKE. 

6 eggs Juice of % lemon 

% lb. of sugar 2 tbsps. of arrack 

% lb. of flour 1 % tsps. of baking powder % lb. of butter 

For Sprinkling. 
Vi lb. of chopped, blanched almonds 
Preparation: Stir the yolks of eggs and sugar to a cream, 
work in the flour. Add the melted butter, arrack, lemon juice, 
baking powder and beaten whites of eggs. Butter some pans, 
spread the batter in 1 inch thick, sprinkje the almonds over 
and bake the cake ^2 hour. 

No. 56 ENGLISH CAKE. 

% lb. of butter 2 tbsps. of chopped orange rind 

% lb. of flour 4 eggs 

Scarce % lb. of sugar % pt. of milk 

% lb. of raisins 4 grams of ammonium 

2 tbsps. of chopped citron 

Preparation: Butter, flour and sugar are rubbed together 
with the Ihands. Add to this the raisins, citron, grated orange 
rind ; beat the 4 eggs to a froth, boil the milk and mix it with 
the eggs, then stir into the batter and lastly mix in the am- 
monium. Butter a pan, strew it with roll crumbs, fill in the 
batter and bake in medium hot oven 1 hour. 



No. 57— WALNUT CAKE. 

Vz cup of butter Vz cup of chopped walnuts 

1 cup of brown sugar % cup of chopped raisins 

2 eggs 2 cups of flour 

1 cup of sour milk 2 tsps. of baking powder '^ tsp. of soda 

Preparation: Cream^ the butter, add sugar and eggs and 
beat 10 minutes. Soda is dissolved in sour milk and mixed in- 
to the batter, the walnuts, raisins, flour and lastly the baking 
powder added. Put the batter into buttered pans and bake to 
a nice color. 



— 300 — 

No. 58— SPICE CAKE No. 2. 

1 cup of butter 2 cups of raisins 

1% cups of sugar 2 tsps. of cinnamon 

1 cup of sour milk 1 tsp. of cloves 

1 tsp. of soda % tsp. of nutmeg 

3 eggs 2 cups of flour 

Preparation: Cream the butter with sugar and yolks of 
eggs, then add soda, dissolved in sour milk, and raisins, cin- 
namon, ground cloves, nutmeg and flour, and lastly the whites 
of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Butter a pan, put in the batter 
and bake 1 ihour. 



No. 59— SOUR CREAM CAKE. 

1 cup of sugar 1 pinch of salt 

1 cup of sour cream 1 pinch of nutmeg 

1 egg 1 tsp. of soda 1 cup of flour 

Preparation: The soda is mixed with sour milk and to it 
are added in the order named, sugar, yolk of egg, salt, nutmeg, 
flour and the stiffly. beaten white of egg. Bake the batter in 
two layers and spread on the lower layer the sour cream filling. 
This is made by mixing well 1/4 cup of sour cream, 1 yolk of 
egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, i/^ teaspoonful of flour, 14 tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice and cook it ^ minute, stirring con- 
tinually. When this has cooled, stir in the beaten wlhite of 



No. 60— THOUSAND PUFF TART. 

1 lb. of fresh washed butter 2 tbsps. of rum 

1 lb. flne flour % tsp. of baking powder 

% pt. cold water % lb. of apricot or raspberry 

Whites of 2 eggs marmalade 

Preparation: Mix the flour, water, egg, rum and baking 
powder. Cut the cold butter into bits and spread it over the 
dough, fold the dough over and roll out, repeat 3 to 4 times, 
then roll out thin. Now cut out 6 to 8 disks the size of the 
tart you wish to make, turn up the edge, brush over with yolks 
of eggs and bake lig'ht brown or yellow. Dust with sugar 
when done, fill in apricot or raspberry marmalade, place the 
disks one on top of the other. The top one should have no 
marmalade, but be dusted with powdered sugar. 

Remarks: This tart dough can be prepared like Good 
Tart dough in No. 93, a very good recipe. 



—301— 

No. 61— CHEESE TART. 

% lb. of butter 2 eggs 

Vi lb. of sugar % tsp. of baking powder 

% lb. of flour 

For the Filling. 

2 lbs. of cheese 1 tbsp. of vanilla 

% lb. of butter 2 tbsps. of flour 

% lb. of sugar 3 eggs 

Preparation: Cream the butter, add sugar, eggs, flour and 
baking powder. Butter a pan, roll out the dough and put in, 
turning up a high rim. Cheese, butter, sugar, vanilla, flour, 
yolks of eggs and beaten whites are mixed well, filled into the 
tart and baked until of a yellow color. 



No. 62— APPLE TART. 

% lb. of washed butter White of 1 egg 

% lb. of flour 1 tbsp. of rum 

% pt. of water % tsp. of baking powder 

For the Filling. 

1 qt. of thick apple sauce or IVz glasses of white wine and 

% peck of apples, stewed soft in sugar 

For the Frosting. 

6 whites of eggs % lb. blanched, ground almonds 

1% cups of sugar 

Preparation: The preparation of the dough is the same 
as given under No. 60. The dough is rolled out, put into a 
buttered, round, loose bottom pan with a high rim, partly 
baked and spread thick with apple sauce. The 6 whites of 
eggs are beaten to a stiff froth, sugar and ground almonds 
mixed in and this frosting spread on the sauce. Now the tart 
is baked again to a nice light brown color. 

Remarks: This tart dough can be made like Good Tart 
dough, in No. 93, a very good recipe. 



No. 63— ORANGE TART. 

8 yolks of eggs % lb. unblanched, ground 

% lb. of sugar almonds 

Juice of 2 large oranges 2 tsps. of baking powder 

Preparation : Yolks of eggs and sugar are stirred V^ hour, 
almonds and orange juice mixed in, then the baking powder 
and beaten whites of eggs. This dough is put into a buttered, 
round, loose bottom' pan, strewn with bread crumbs and baked 
% hour in medium hot oven. 



—302— 

No. 64^RICE TART WITH ORANGES. 

% lb. of washed butter % lb. ol sugar 

% lb. of flour V4, tsp. of baking powder 

2 eggs 

For the Filling. 
% lb. of rice V2 pt. of white wine 

1 lb. of .sugar Juice of 1 lemon 

Juice and rind of I orange 4 eggs 

Preparation: The preparation of the dough is the same 
as No. 61. The douglh is rolled out and put into the pan, mak- 
ing a high rim, and baked. The rice is cooked done but not 
mushy in 3 qts. of water. Then pour off the water, add white 
wine, lemon juice, orange juice, grated rind of % orange and 
sugar mixed with the rice to simmer ^4 hour. The yolks of 
eggs and the beaten Whites are added and this mixture spread 
thick on the tart which is baked 20 minutes more in a medium 
hot oven. Instead of baking this dough, the batter may be 
prepared for the tart according to No. 93. 



No. 65— BREAD TART. 

12 eggs 1% cups of blanched, ground 
1 lb. powdered sugar almonds 
1 pt. grated rye bread 1 tbsp. of citron 
1 tbsp. of cinnamon % tsp. of cardamom 
1% tsps. of baking powder 
Preparation : Yolks of eggs and sugar are stirred 20 min- 
utes, then bread, cinnamon, almonds, citron, cardamom, bak- 
ing powder and beaten whites of eggs mixed in. A round, 
loose bottom pan is buttered, the batter filled in and the tart 
baked in a slow oven. You can cover the tart with a choco- 
late frosting. 

No. 66— PUFF-PASTE TART WITH CREAM. 
% lb. of washed butter White of 1 egg 

% lb. of flour 1 tbsp. of rum 

% pt. of water % tsp. of baking powder 

For the Cream. 
1 pt. of cream Rind of Vz lemon 

1 % tbsps. of flour % lb. of sugar 

6 yolks of eggs % cup of blanched, ground 

2 tbsps. of butter almonds 

Preparation: Flour, water, tgg, rum and baking powder 
are mixed into a dough, the butter cut into bits and spread 
on, the dough folded over, rolled out and this repeated several 
times. Cut out 3 round layers and bake them each in a round 
baking pan to a golden color. Meanwhile mix the cream, flour. 



—3,03— 

butter, sugar, yolks of eggs, grated lemon rind and cook in 
double boiler to a thick cream, add the % cup of ground al- 
monds, spread this cream between the layers and cover with 
the frosting. To make this, beat the whites of 4 eggs to a stiff 
• froth, add 13 tablespoonfuls of sugar. After the frosting is on, 
put the tart into the oven again and bake to a golden yellow. 



No. 67— CHERRY TART. 

% lb. of fresh butter White of 1 egg 

% lb. of flour 1 tbsp. of rum 

% pt. of water % tsp. baking powder 

For the Filling. 
2 qts. of stoned cherries 1 cup of sugar 

For the Frosting. 
% lb. blanched, ground almonds Sugar to taste 
5 eggs 3 tbsps. of lemon juice 

Preparation: Flour, water, egg, rum and baking powder 
are stirred to a dougih and rolled out. The butter is cut into 
bits and spread on and the dough folded over and rolled out 
again ; repeat this process 3 to 4 times and lastly put the dough 
into a round baking pan shaping it with a high rim. Now fill 
in the cherries and partly bake the cake. In the meantime pre- 
pare the frosting by mixing well 5 yolks of eggs, ground al- 
monds, sugar,, lemon juice and beaten whites of eggs. Bake 
the tart again to a nice color. 

Remarks: This tart dough can also be made like Good 
Tart dough, in No. 93. 

No. 68— STRAWBERRY OR RASPBERRY PUFF-TART. 

% lb. of washed butter White of 1 egg 

% lb. of flour 1 tbsp. of rum 

% pt. of water % tsp. baking powder 

For the Filling. 
2 qts. of strawberries 1 cup of sugar 

1 qt. whipped cream 

Preparation: Butter, flour, water, tgg, rum and baking 
powder are stirred into a dough, rolled out and butter cut into 
bits and spread on, then folded up and rolled out again. Re- 
peat this 3 to 4 times, cut out 3 layers which are baked to a 
nice color. The strawberries or raspberries are picked over, 
washed, mixed with sugar and whipped cream and spread be- 
tween tihe layers. Cover with whipped cream. 



—304 — 

No. 69— EMPEROR TART. 

% lb. blanched, roasted hazel- % lb. sugar 

nuts 1 tsp. vanilla 

10 eggs 2% ozs. fine flour 

For the Filling. 
1 glass apricot marmalade 

Preparation : The nuts are ground and stirred for% hour 
with yolks of eggs and sugar, then vanilla and flour are added 
and lastly the beaten whites of eggs. Bake in two layers, cool 
them, spread apricot marmalade between tihem and cover the 
cake with pineapple frosting. 

No. 70— MOUTH POCKETS. 

^ lb. of washed butter % tsp. of baking powder 

% lb. of flour White of 1 egg 

% pt. of water 1 tbsp. of rum Fruit marmalade 

Preparation: The preparation of the dough is the same 
as given under No. 68. Roll out the dough very thin, cut out 
little tarts, put in the center of each some kind of marmalade, 
either , raspberry, apple sauce, cherry or plum, and bake the 
tarts after folding one half of each over the fruit. 

No. 71— PUFF-PASTE STRIPS. 

% lb. of washed butter 1 tbsp. of rum 

% lb. of sugar % tsp. baking powder 

% pt. of water Sugar 

White of 1 egg Fruit marmalade 

Preparation: The preparation of the dough is the same 
as given under No. 68. When the dougli is rolled out thin, 
cut strips 3 indhes long and 1% inches wide, bake them until 
done, dust with sugar and finish baking. When done, spread 
with fruit marmalade and place two and two together. 

No. 72— ALMOND TART FILLED WITH CREAM. 

6 eggs Vz lb. of unblanched, ground almonds 

1 large cup of powdered sugar 1 Vz tsps. baking powder 

For the Filling. 

1 pt. of whipped cream % cup of sugar 1 tsp. of vanilla 

Preparation: Yolks of eggs and powdered sugar are 
beaten for 15 minutes, the ground almonds added, then the 
baking powder and the beaten whites of eggs. 

Bake in 3 layers, cool them, then spread on wlhipped cream 
mixed with sugar and vanilla, place the layers one on the other 
and cover the whole cake with whipped cream. The cake may 
be filled with fruit marmalade. 



— SOS- 
No. 73— HUNTER'S TART. 

6 eggs 1 grated lemon rind 

% lb. of sugar 1 % tsps. of baking powder % lb. of fine flour 

For the Filling. 
Fruit marmalade or jelly 

For the Frosting. 
2 whites of eggs 2 tbsps. of lemon juice 

% cup of sugar % lb. blanched, ground almonds 

Preparation : 4 yolks of eggs and 2 whole eggs are stirred 
with sugar 15 minutes, add 1 grated lemon rind, flour, baking 
powder, the beaten whites of 4 eggs. Butter a round, loose 
bottom pan, sprinkle with roll crumbs, put the batter in, and 
bake it in medium hot oven. When baked, spread it with mar- 
malade and then with the frosting. This is made by beating 
the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mixing it with sugar, 
lemon juice and almonds. Then bake the cake again in a me- 
dium hot oven until the frosting is yellow. 



No. 74^FIRE TART. 

7 hard boiled eggs % lb. sugar 

% lb. blanched, ground almonds Flour enough to make stiff dough 

For the Filling. 

Jelly or marmalade 

For Sprinkling. 

14 lb. blanched, ground almonds % cup of sugar 

Preparation: Stir the yolks of the hard boiled eggs well 
with sugar, add the almonds, then the flour, enough to make a 
stiff dough. Butter a pan and cover the bottom of it with 
dough. Leave enough for strips. Then bake the tart in a 
slow oven, cool it and spread it with jelly or marmalade. Mix 
the ground almonds with ^ugar and sprinkle over the jelly, 
then arrange the strips of dough nicely over the top and bake 
again. Place something under the pan that the bottom of the 

tart will not get dark. -^ 

No. 75— WHITE ALMOND TART. 
% lb. of butter % lb. of blanched, ground 

% lb. of sugar almonds 

3 eggs 2 % tbsps. of baking powder % lb. of flour 

For the Frosting. 
% cup of rum Powdered sugar 

Preparation: Cream the butter, sugar and yolks of eggs, 
then add the ground almonds, the flour, the baking powder and 
lastly the beaten whites of eggs. Butter a round, loose bot- 



—306— 

torn pan, put the batter in and bake to a nice color. The rum 
is mixed with enough powdered sugar to make a creamy frost- 
ing and when the tart has cooled off, spread it with this 
. frosting. 

No. 76— HEAVEN'S TART. 
1 cup of fresh butter 1 tsp. of vanilla 

1 cup of powdered sugar 2 scant cups of flour 

1 egg 2 heaping tsps. of baking powder 3 yolks of eggs 

For the Filling. No. 1. 

3 whites of eggs 6 bitter, ground almonds 

4 tbsps. of powdered sugar % tsp. of cinnamon 

^ lb. blanched, ground almonds 

No. 2. 

1 glass raspberry jelly 

No. 3. 

1 cup of cream 1 tbsp. of flour 

2 yolks of eggs 2 tbsps. of sugar 
Juice of 1 lemon 1 tsp. vanilla 

Preparation: Cream the butter, add the sugar, egg, yolks 
of eggs, flour and baking powder, mix well and bake in three 
layers. 

Beat the 3 w'hites of eggs to a stifif froth, add 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, 14 lb. sweet and 6 bitter, ground al- 
monds and vanilla, and spread on the baked layers. Put them 
back into the oven to bake light yellow. On two of the layers 
put jelly. The cup of cream, 2 yolks of eggs, lemon juice, flour, 
2 tablespoonfuls of sugar and 1 teaspoonful of vanilla are 
mixed well and boiled to a cream, stirring constantly. Let it 
get cold, spread it over the two layers covered with jelly and 
place one on the other. Place the layers covered with the 
beaten whites of eggs on top. 

No. 77— HEAVEN'S FOOD. 

2 eggs 1 tsp. of baking powder 

1 cup of sugar % cup of ground walnuts 

2 heaping tbsps. of flour % cup of chopped dates 

For the Filling. 

3 oranges 1 pt. of whipped cream 2 bananas 

Preparation: The eggs are well beaten and stirred with 
sugar for 10 minutes ; add flour and baking powder, ground 
walnuts and chopped dates and bake the cake to a nice color. 
When it is done, break it in desirable pieces, place them close 
together again, put the sliced oranges and bananas on and 
cover the whole with whipped cream mixed with sugar and 
vanilla. Serve at once. 



—307— 

No. 78— MiERINGUE TART. 

6 whites of eggs 1 tsp. of vanilla 

2 cups of sugar % tsp. of cream of tartar 1 tbsp. of vinegar 

Preparation: The whites of eggs must be beaten very- 
stiff, the cream of tartar, sugar and vanilla added and beaten 
or stirred 1 hour. Rinse a round cake pan with water, put the 
mixture in and bake in a slow oven 1 hour. When cold, fill 
it with whipped cream. 

No. 79— SPONGE CAKE. 

4 eggs 1 cup of sifted flour 

1 cup of sugar 1 pinch of salt 

3 tbsps. of water 1 tsp. of vanilla or lemon 

1 tsp. of baking powder 

Preparation : Cream the yolks of eggs and sugar, add the 
flour, water, salt and vanilla, then add baking powder and 
beaten whites of eggs. Butter a pan, put the batter in and 
bake slowly. 

No. 80— WALNUT TART. 

7 eggs % cup of dates 

2 cups of powdered sugar 2 % tsps. of baking powder 
Juice of 1 lemon % cup of sifted cracker crumbs 

% lb. of blanched walnuts 

Preparation: Rub yolks of eggs to a cream with sugar, 
add the ground walnuts, chopped dates, lemon juice, cracker 
crumbs, baking powder and beaten whites of eggs. Butter a 
round, loose bottom cake pan, put the batter in, bake it to a 
nice color, and cover with a chocolate frosting. 

No. 81— BISCUIT TART. 

12 eggs 1% tsps. baking powder 

1 lb. of sugar 1 tsp. of vanilla or lemon rind 11 ozs. of flour 

Preparation: Cream the yolks of eggs and sugar, add 
vanilla or grated % lemon rind, flour, baking powder and the 
beaten whites of eggs. Butter a round, loose bottom pan, put 
the batter in and bake in a slow oven. A glass of fine wine 
poured over the baked tart makes it very nice. 

No. 82— -SAND TART. 

1 lb. of butter 2 tbsps. of good brandy 

10 eggs 1 lb. corn starch or half corn 

1 lb. of sugar starch and half flour 

The juice and rind of 1 lemon 1 tsp. of baking powder 

Preparation: The butter is washed to take the salt out, 
tihen creamed ; add gradually the sugar and yolks of eggs, lemon 



—SOS- 
juice, grated lemon rind and brandy. Then add the flour in 
spoonfuls. All in all the batter must have been stirred 1 hour. 
Now add the baking powder and beaten whites of eggs. But- 
ter a round, loose bottom pan, put the batter in and bake 

slowly iy2 hours. 

No. 83— FILLED BISCUIT ROLLS. 
4 eggs % lb. of flour 

% lb. of sugar 1 tbsp. of butter 

1 tsp. grated lemon rind 1 cup of fruit marmalade 

Preparation: The yolks of eggs and sugar are stirred i?^ 
hour, then the grated lemon rind, flour and beaten whites of 
eggs mixed in. A pan is buttered with the 1 tablespoonful of 
butter, the batter spread in 1/4 inch thick and baked in a me- 
dium hot oven to a light brown color. When still warm, spread 
with the marmalade, roll it up and cut slices of it which may 
be baked or dried a little in the oven. If you wish, cover them 
with frosting. 

No. 84— DATE CAKE WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

6 eggs 1 lb. chopped dates 

% lb. of sugar % cup of wheat bread crumbs 

% lb. of chopped walnuts 2 tsps. of baking powder 

For the Filling. 

1 pt. of whipped cream 
Preparation : The yolks of eggs are creamed with sugar, 
then add the chopped or ground walnuts and dates, bread 
crumbs, baking powder and beaten whites of eggs. Bake in 2 
layers. Mix the whipped cream with sugar and % teaspoonful 
of vanilla, spread on the layers and arrange these one on the 

other. Serve at once. 

No, 85— FARINA TART. 

7 eggs 15 bitter, blanched, ground 
% cup of sugar almonds 

% cup blanched, ground, sweet 1 grated lemon peel 

almonds % lb. of farina, good measure 

Preparation: The yolks of eggs, sugar, lemon peel and 

almonds are stirred 1 hour, the farina mixed in dry and lastly 

tbe beaten whites of eggs. Butter a round, loose bottom pan, 

put the batter in and bake slowly 1 hour. 

No. 86— BROWN SPICE CAKE No. 3. 

2 cups of brown sugar 1 tsp. of cloves 

1 cup of butter % tsp. of nutmeg 

3 eggs 1 cup of chopped raisins 

1 cup of milk 1 cup of chopped hickory nuts 

3 cups of flour 3 tsps. of baking powder 1 tsp. of cinnamon 

Preparation: Cream the butter with sugar and yolks of 



— 309— 

eggs, add the milk, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, raisins, nuts, 
flour, baking powder and whites of eggs. Butter a pan, put 
the batter in and bake li/4 to l^/^ hours in medium hot oven. 

No. 87— SPICE CAKE No. 4. 

% cup ol butter % cup of sour milk 

% cup of lard 1 tsp. of soda 

1 % cups of dark brown sugar % tsp. of cinnamon 

2 eggs % tsp. cloves 

% cup of cold coffee 3Vz — 4 cups of flour 

Preparation: The butter, lard, yolks of eggs and sugar 
are stirred to a cream, add the coffee, sour milk in which fhe 
soda has been dissolved, cinnamon, cloves, flour and beaten 
whites of eggs. Butter a pan, put the batter in and bake 1 

hour or bake in 3 layers. 

No. 88— SCOTCH TART. 
% lb. of butter % lb. of finely cut raisins 9 eggs 1 lb. of flour 
1 lb. of sugar 2 heaping tsps. of baking powder 

Juice and rind of 1 lemon 
Preparation : The butter is stirred to a cream, with yolks 
of eggs, sugar, lemon juice and rind; add the flour and lastly 
the baking powder and beaten whites of eggs. Butter a pan, 
put the batter in and bake to a light brown color. 

No. 89— LARD CAKE. 

% lb. pork lard % lb. blanched, ground, sweet 

6 eggs almonds 

% lb. of sugar 20 blanched, ground, bitter 

% lb. of corn starch almonds 

% lb. of flour 1 heaping tsp. of baking powder 

Preparation : Stir the yolks of eggs and sugar to a cream ; 
cream the lard and mix with the eggs and sugar. Now add 
flour and almonds in spoonfuls and lastly the baking powder 
and beaten whites of eggs. Butter a pan, put the batter in and 
bake to a nice brown color. 



No. 90— SEXTON'S CAKE. 

% lb. of butter % lb. blanched, ground, sweet 

^, lb. of sugar almonds 

% lb. of extra fine fiour % tsp. baking powder 

Preparation : The butter is stirred to a cream ; add the 
sugar, ground almonds, flour and baking powder and stir 45 
minutes. Spread the batter % inch thick in small square muf- 
fin pans or in a large square buttered cake pan, bake it to a 
ligfht brown color and leave it to cool a little before taking out 
of the pan, because it breaks easily. After it has cooled off 
completely, dust with sugar or spread frosting on. 



—310 — 

No. 91— CHOCOLATE TART. 

% lb. sweet chocolate 3 eggs 

1 cup of water 1 % cups of sugar 

% lb. ground almonds 1% tsps. of baking powder 

% lb. of butter 2 cups of flour 

For Filling, 
1 pt. of whipped cream 
Preparation : Stir the butter, sugar and yolks of eggs to 
a cream. Add the chocolate dissolved in water, unblanched, 
ground almonds, flour and baking powder and the beaten 
whites of eggs. Butter a round, loose bottom pan, put the 
batter in and bake in a slow oven. Mix the whipped cream 
with sugar and vanilla and fill or cover tihe tart with it be- 
fore serving. 



No. 92— ENGLISH BRIDE'S CAKE (FRUIT CAKE). 

1 lb. of butter % tbsp. of ground cloves 

1 lb. brown sugar 4 ground nutmegs 

10 eggs 1 tsp. of baking soda 

1 lb. of flour 1 cup of molasses 

1 pt. of brandy 10 lbs. of raisins 

1 tbsp. ground cinnamon 4 lbs. of currants 

2 lbs. finely cut citron 1 tbsp. of ground bark of nutmeg tree 

Preparation: The butter is stirred to a cream with sugar 
and yolks of eggs. Then work in % lb. of flour, the brandy 
mixed with the spices and the molasses in which the soda is 
dissolved, the beaten whites of eggs, then raisins, currants, 
citron and the other % lb. of flour. The cake is baked 3 to 
4 hours. 

Remarks: This cake may be kept 20 years and longer 
and will still be palatable. Wine is served with it. 



No. 93— GOOD TART DOUGH. 

% lb. of butter % lb. of sugar 

2 yolks of eggs 1 tbsp. of brandy 

% lb. of blanched, ground 2 cups of flour 

almonds % cup of cracker crumbs 

Preparation : Cream the butter with sugar, egg yolks and 
brandy, and add the flour. Roll out the dougih and line a round, 
loose bottom pan with it. Strew with % cup of cracker crumbs 
and 1/4 lb. blanched, ground almonds. Spread the fruit on the 
almonds. This dough is very good for any kind of Fruit Tart. 



— 311— 
No. 94r— CHOCOLATE TART No. 2. 

6 eggs 20 chopped almonds 
1 cup sugar % cup of flour 

% lb. chopped bitter chocolate 1 heaping tsp. of baking powder 

For Filling. 
1 pt. of whipped cream 

Prepeiration: Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add 
tihe chopped bitter chocolate and almonds, then yolks of eggs 
and sugar, and lastly the flour and baking powder. Bake in 
two layers. A little before serving, spread whipped cream be- 
tween the layers. ■ 

No. 95— FILLED SAND TART. 
Sand tart batter as in No. 82. 

For Filling. 
1 glass of fine fruit marmalade 

For Frosting. 
Rum frosting according to Chapter 20, No. 22 

Preparation: The sand tart batter should be baked in 3 
layers; when cold, spread the fruit marmalade between the 
layers. Then cover with rum frosting. 

No. 96— TREE TART. 

7 egga 1 cup finest flour 

1 cup sugar Chocolate or sour filling 

Preparation: Beat the yolks with a rotary egg beater, 
add 1/^ cup sugar and beat well again, the'.i set aside. Beat 
whites to stiff froth, add other i/^ cup sugar. Mix both and 
add 1 cup flour measured before sifting. Butter pans, dredge 
them with flour and put the batter in. Bake in 8 layers in a 
slow oven. Spread dhocolate or sour cream filling as in No. 
76. between the layers. You may also cover with a frosting 

if you wish. — ■ 

No. 97— FENCE TART. 
First Layer. 
4 whites of eggs 1/3 tsl>. cream of tartar 

3 yolks of eggs 1 % cups of sugar 

1 pinch of salt 1 cup flour 

Second Layer. 
1/3 of % lb. bitter chocolate 1 tsp. of vanilla 

dissolved in ^ cup hot % package Knox gelatine dis- 

water solved in % cup of water 

1 cup of powdered sugar 1 % cups of cream Vz Pt. whipped cream 

Third Layer. 
% package Knox gelatine with 1 cup of powdered sugar 
pink coloring dissolved in 1% cups of cream 
% cup of water % pt. whipped cream 1 tsp. of vanilla 



—312— 

For the Covering. 

1 pt. whipped cream 

For the Fencing. 
1% doz, ladyfingers or macaroons 

Preparation: The first layer. Whip whites of egg's to 
thin froth, add salt and cream of tartar, then whip to a stiff 
froth, mix in the sugar and then the yolks of eggs whipped to 
a cream. Mix the flour in lightly and bake this batter in a but- 
tered, round, loose bottom pan. Loosen edge of layer and ar- 
range ladyfingers or macaroons around in circle. For the 
second layer. The dissolved bitter chocolate, sugar, cream and 
vanilla are boiled for 2 minutes, stirring constantly ; stir in the 
dissolved gelatine, set the mixture in cold water and continue 
stirring until it begins to thicken, then add the % P'^t of 
wlhipped cream and spread the mixture over the baked layer. 
The third layer is made exactly like the second layer only 
using the pink coloring instead of the bitter chocolate ; after 
the whipped cream is added, spread the mixture over the choc- 
olate layer. 

Before serving, spread the 1 pint of wlhipped cream, to 
which has been added a little sugar and vanilla, over the cake. 



No. 98— FRUIT TART. 

Apricot, Peach, Plum, Blueberry, Raspberry 

or Strawberry Tart. 

Prepare the batter according to No. 93, Good Tart Doug'h. 
Cover with the desired fruit, either fresh or canned, sprinkle 
with sufficient sugar, bake for 25 minutes. Before serving the 
cake, cover with beaten cream or almond frosting, prepared 
according to No. 23, Chapter 20 and then bake. 



No. 99— SUNSHINE CAKE. 

6 eggs 1 even tsp. cream of tartar 

1 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

1 cup flour % tsp. vanilla 

Preparation: Beat the yolks of eggs first and add half 
the sugar; beat the Whites of eggs very dry and add remain- 
ing sugar ; beat well and add the vanilla, salt and the yolks of 
eggs; lastly, add the flour and cream of tartar. Bake in a 
moderate oven one hour. 



— 313— 

No. 100— LOVE CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

% cup butter % tsp. soda 

1 cup sugar 1 large cup flour 

1 egg 2 squares bitter chocolate 

% cup hot water % cup sour milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

Preparation: Cream butter and sugar; add the egg and 
vanilla ; add the milk in which the soda is dissolved ; dissolve 
the chocolate in a half cup boiling water, let cool and add; 
lastly, add the flour. Bake in flat cake tin about 45 minutes. 

No. 101— ANGEL FOOD. 

Whites of 9 eggs 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 cup sugar 1 cup flour 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

Preparation: Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth ; boil 
the sugar with 4 tablespoons of water until all the sugar is 
dissolved ; beat the sugar syrup into the whites of the eggs ; 
add vanilla and tihe flour and cream of tartar. Bake slowly 
one hour. 

No. 102— FRUIT CAKE. 

1% cups sugar 1% cups flour 

% cup butter % tsp. cloves 

Yolks of 2 eggs V2 tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup sour milk % cup dates, raisins and citron 

1 tsp. baking soda 1 cup walnuts 

Preparation: Cream the sugar and butter, add yolks of 
eggs, cloves and cinnamon ; dissolve the soda in the sour milk 
and add to the rest ; add the flour and mix well ; lastly add the 
raisins, dates, citron and walnuts. Bake about 45 minutes. 

No. 103— CREAM PUFFS. 

1 large teacup hot water 1 teacup flour 

% tsp. butter 4 eggs 

Preparation: Stir the flour into the boiling water and 
butter. Set aside to cool and, when cold, stir in the unbeaten 
eggs one at a time. Drop in muffin tins and bake in a fairly 
hot oven. When baked, fill with beaten cream, sweetened to 
taste and flavored witlh vanilla. 



No. 104^CREAM PUFFS. 

1 cup boiling water 3 eggs, beaten 

% cup butter 1 cup pastry flour Small pinch of soda 

Preparation; Pour the water over the butter. As soon as 
it boils and the butter is melted, stir in the flour and keep stir- 
ring until it leaves the sides of the pan. Let cool, stir in the 
eggs and soda, drop on the buttered pans and bake thirty min- 
utes. Do not open the oven door for twenty minutes for fear 
they will fall. Fill with whipped cream, sweetened and 
flavored. 



—314 — 

No. 105— YEAST DOUGHNUTS. 

1 cup sugar Flour to make soft sponge 

3 cups milk 1 yeast cake Mix and let stand over night 

In the Morning Add : 

1 cup sugar % a nutmeg 

% cup butter % tsp. soda 

3 eggs Flour to mix stiff 

Preparation: Let rise, then- roll and cut in shape de- 
sired, or roll into long strips and twist into shape. Let rise 
again while the lard is heating and then fry. Raised dough- 
nuts require longer cooking. 



No. 106— SOUR CREAM DOUGHNUTS. 

5 tbsps. sour cream 2 eggs % tsp. cinnamon 

1 cup milk Little salt % tsp. nutmeg 

% cup butter 1 tsp. soda 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup sugar 1% pts. of flour 

Preparation: Stir butter, eggs and cream well, add all 
other ingredients, roll and cut the dough, bake in hot lard to 
golden-brown color and sprinkle powdered sugar over. 



No. 107— BLITZ-KUCHEN, 

1 lb. sugar 8 eggs 

% lb. butter 1 lb. flour 

Preparation : Stir sugar, butter and yolks of eggs together 
well, add the stiffly beaten whites of eggs and flour. Bake in 
a long tin and cover with sugar, cinnamon and chopped al- 
monds. Cut and serve while warm. 



No. 108— SPICE CAKE. 

2 cups brown sugar 2 egg yolks 1 tsp. cloves 

% cup butter 1/4 cup sour milk 1 tsp. cinnamon 

2 eggs 1 tsp. nutmeg 1 tsp. soda 

2 cups flour 

Preparation: Beat the sugar, butter and eggs together 
until smooth ; add the remaining ingredients. Bake in three 
layers and put together with white frosting. 



—315— 

No. 109— WHIPPED CREAM CAKE. 

Make a good sponge cake dough 
(see No. 29), and omit the chocolate 

Filling. 
1 pint whipped, sweet cream 1 pound blanched, chopped almonds 
Vanilla Sugar 

Preparation: After the layers are baked, beat the cream 
stiff, add sugar, vanilla and almonds ; sweeten the cream and 
spread between tihe layers and on top. This is the queen of 
all cakes. 



No. 110— WALNUT CAKE. 

1 lb. walnuts (leave out 14 8 eggs 

halves for the top) 1 tsp. baking powder 

1 cup powdered sugar 1 cup powdered sugar 
% cup crackers (rolled fine) 

Filling. 

2 cups milk % cup sugar 
Corn starch to thicken Vanilla 

Yolks at 2 eggs 

Preparation : Cream the yolks of eggs and the sugar ; add 
the beaten whites of the eggs ; mix the rolled crackers, finely 
chopped nuts and baking powder and add. Bake in three 
layers in a slow oven. 

Stir powdered sugar with a little water, spread on top of 
cake and. put on the walnut halves. 



No. Ill— ANGEL CAKE. 

1 scant cup flour 1 cup walnuts (cut) 

1 scant cup sugar 1 cup dates (cut) 

1 tsp. baking powder 4 eggs 

Preparation: Cream the eggs separately, add sugar, wal- 
nuts, dates, baking powder and flour. Bake in a buttered pan. 



— SIB- 
CHAPTER 20. 

Fillings and Frostings for Cakes. 



No. 1— VANILLA FILLING. 

% cup of sweet cream 1 ^^ tsps. of vanilla 

3 eggs 4 tbsps. of sugar 

The preparation of the vanilla filling is the same as given 
in Chapter 19, No. 29, Layer Cake with Chocolate. 

No. 2— NUT FILLING No. 1. 

1 tsp. of butter 1 cup of sugar 

% cup of milk % cup of chopped nuts 

2 tbsps. of flour 1 egg 

Preparation : The ingredients, excepting the white of egg, 
are all mixed well. The mixture is cooked one minute, stirring 
constantly, then cooled and the beaten white of egg mixed in. 

No. 3— RAISIN FILLING. 

1 cup of sugar 1 cup of seedless chopped raisins 

% cup of water 1 white of egg 

Preparation: Water and sugar are stirred well, then 
boiled for one minute and taken from the stove. The raisins 
and beaten white of egg are mixed in and the filling spread on 
the cake, wlhile still warm. 

No. 4^NUT FILLING No. 2. 

1 cup of sugar 1 cup of finely chopped nuts 

1 cup of sour cream 

Preparation: Tbe ingredients are mixed and cooked for 
several minutes, stirring constantly. 

No. 5— ALMOIND FILLING. 

2 % tbsps. of sugar 1 cup of blanched, ground 
1 tbsp. of water almonds 

% tsp. of vanilla Whipped cream, to taste 

Preparation: The sugar, water and vanilla are boiled 1 
minute and spread on the cake while warm. The almonds are 
strewn on immediately, then cover with the sweetened whip- 
ped cream. 

No. 6— LEMON FILLING. 
% cup of milk 1 tsp. of lemon extract 

4 tbsps. of sugar 2 eggs 1 tsp. of flour 

Preparation: This is given in Chapter 19, No. 33, Sponge 
Cake. 



—317— 

No. 7— WALNUT FILLING. 

% cup of chopped walnuts 1 cup of sugar 

ii cup of chopped seedless or % tsp. of vanilla 
seeded raisins % cup of water 

Preparation: The ingredients are mixed and boiled, stir- 
ring constantly, t'hen spread on the cake while still warm. 

No. 8— CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

% lb. of sweet chocolate 1 tsp. of vanilla 
% cup of sugar 2 tbsps. of water 3 whites of eggs 
Preparation: The chocolate is dissolved in the water, va- 
nilla and sugar added and boiled 3 minutes while stirring con- 
stantly. Mix in the beaten whites of eggs while the choco- 
late is still warm. 

No. 9— COCOANUT FILLING. 

Vi lb. of cocoanut V2 cup of sugar 

2 whites ol eggs 1 tsp. of vanilla 

Preparation: The whites of eggs are beaten to a stiff 
froth, the cocoanut mixed in, then sugar and vanilla. 

No. 10— BANANA FILLING. 

4 — 5 bananas % cup of sugar 

Preparation: The bananas are peeled and sliced, mixed 
with sugar and spread between the layers of the cake. 

No. 11— DATE FILLING. 

1 cup of dates 2 tbsps. of water 

Juice and rind of 1 orange V^ cup of sugar 

Preparation: The dates are chopped fine and mixed with 
orange juice and grated orange rind, water and sugar and 
spread on the cake. • 

No. 12— CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. 1. 

% lb. of sweet chocolate 4 tbsps. of water 

ii lb. of sugar 1 tsp. of vanilla 

Preparation: Chocolate and sugar are dissolved in the 
water and vanilla and cooked until it threads. Stir it a little 
while longer and spread on the cake quickly, then put the cake 
into the oven again for 1 minute. 

No. 13— CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. 2, 

V2 cup of butter 2 cups of sugar 

% lb. of chocolate 1 cup of boiling water % tsp. of vanilla 

Preparation: The chocolate is grated, mixed with the 
other ingredients, and boiled a few minutes, stirring constant- 
ly, until quite stiff. Take off the fire, stir until nearly cold and 
spread on the cake immediately. 



—318— 

No. 14— CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. 3. 

% lb. of confectionery sugar 1 tsp. of vanilla 

2 heaping tbsps. of cocoa 3 — & tbsps. of water 

Preparation: Sugar, cocoa and vanilla are mixed and the 
cold water gradually stirred in, being careful not to take too 
much water because the mixture must be thick. Spread on the 
cake at once. If you wish, add % cup of blanched and chopped 
almonds. 

No. 15— VANILLA FROSTING. 

1 lb. of confectionery sugar Sufficient cream to make the 

1 tbsp. of vanilla frosting of proper consistency 

Preparation: Vanilla is added to the sugar and the cream 
in y^ teaspoonfuls. Take only sufficient cream to make the 
frosting of consistency to spread. 



No. 16— LEMON FROSTING. 

1 lb. confectionery sugar Cream, if necessary 

Juice of 1 lemon 

Preparation: The lemon juice is mixed with the sugar 
and stirred a while. If the frosting is too thick, add more 
cream. 

No. 17— TUTTI-FRUTTI FROSTING No. 1. 

1 % cups of sugar % cup of cocoanut 

1 tbsp. of cocoa or chocolate % cup of chopped walnuts 

1 tbsp. of butter % cup of milk 

% cup of finely chopped raisins 

The ingredients are mixed well and cooked until the mix- 
ture may be spread on the cake while still warm. 



No. 18— TUTTI-FRUTTI FROSTING No. 2. 

3 tbsps. hot milk 1 cup of finely chopped seedless 

% cup of confectionery sugar or seeded raisins 

^ lb. of ground peanuts % cup of chopped citron 

Preparation : The sugar and hot milk are stirred a while, 
then the other ingredients are added and the frosting spread 
on the cake immediately 

No. 19— PLAIN FROSTING. 

% cup of confectionery sugar 1 tsp. of vanilla or lemon 

1 white of egg 

Preparation : White of egg and sugar are stirred well and 
vanilla or lemon essence added ; white of egg is not beaten to 
a froth. 



—319— 

No. 20— CARAMEL FROSTING. 

1 cup of brown sugar 1 tap. of butter 

% cup of milk 1 tsp. of vanilla 

Preparation: Sugar and milk are boiled until the mixture 
draws threads, take off the fire, add butter and vanilla and stir 
continually until you spread it on the cake while still warm. 



No. 21— GLAZE FROSTING FOR HONEY CAKES. 

Vi lb. of confectionery sugar 3 tbsps. of rose water 1 white of egg 
Preparation: All ingredients are stirred to a cream and 
spread on the cake. 

No. 22— RUM FROSTING. 

% cup of confectionery sugar 1% tbsps. of rum % pt. of water 
Preparation: The sugar is dissolved in water and cooked 
until it threads. Then cool it a little, add the rum and stir un- 
til the frosting begins to get white, then spread on the cake. 



No. 23— ALMOND FROSTING FOR FRUIT TART No. 1. 
6 whites of eggs Scant % lb. blanched almonds 

1 ^, cups of sugar cut in long thin strips 

Preparation: The whites of eggs are beaten to a stiff 
froth, mixed with sugar and almonds and spread on the cake. 
This is then put into a medium oven and baked lightly to 
harden the frosting. 

No. 24— ALMOND FROSTING No. 2. 

5 eggs % cup of sugar 

% lb. blanched, ground almonds 3 tbsps. of lemon juice 

The preparation is the same as given in Chapter 19, No. 
67, Cherry Tart. ■. 

No. 25— FRUIT FROSTING. 

1/3 lb. of powdered sugar 2 tbsps. of fruit marmalade 

1 white of egg 

Preparation: The ingredients are mixed well, stirred 35 
minutes until thick and foamy, then spread on the cake im- 
mediately. 

No. 26— CREAM FROSTING FOR FRUIT CAKE. 

% cup of sweet or sour cream 2 eggs % cup of sugar 

Preparation: Cream, sugar and yolks of eggs are mixed 
well and the beaten whites of eggs added-. This frosting is 
spread on the cake and baked 10 minutes until the frosting is 
a nice yellow color. 



—320— 

No. 27— PLAIN ALMOND FROSTING. 

% lb. of confectionery sugar 1 cup of blanched, ground or 

% cup of cream or milk chopped almonds 

Preparation: The cream and the almonds are stirred into 
the sugar. The frosting must be quite thick, then spread on 
the cake immediately. 




—321— 

CHAPTER 21. 

COOKIES. 



Directions for Preparing Christmas Cookies. 



No. 1— BUTTER COOKIES. 

1 lb. of butter % lb. of sugar 

1% lbs. of flour % lb. of blanched, ground 

2 yolks of eggs almonds 

1 tbsp. of arrack or brandy % cup of chopped citron 

Preparation: The butter is washed to take the salt out. 
Then butter, flour and sugar are mixed, yolks of eggs, arrack 
and almonds added and the dough rolled out to 14 indh thick. 
Cut out with cooky cutters and bake to a light yellow color. 

Remarks: These cookies may be brushed with whites of 
eggs and dusted with sugar, cinnamon and almonds before 

they are baked. 

No. 2— HAZELNUT COOKIES. 
% lb. of sugar 1 lb. of flour 

4 eggs IV2 tsps. of vanilla 

% lb. of ground hazelnuts 

Preparation: The ingredients are mixed into a smooth 
batter, rolled out thin, cut out in various designs and baked a 
nice yellow color. When done, spread with vanilla frosting. 



No. 3— KISSES. 

% lb. of sugar mixed with vanilla 4 whites of eggs 
Preparation: The sugar and whites of eggs are whipped 
to a stiff froth. The pan is spread with wax, little heaps of 
froth are put on and baked in a very moderate oven. 



No. 4— SAND COOKIES. 

1 cup of butter Vz tsp. of baking powder 

1% cups of sugar Flour enough to make a stiff 

3 eggs dough 

1 tbsp. of water Sugar and cinnamon 

Preparation: Butter, sugar, yolks of eggs and 1 table- 
spoonful of water are stirred well, then the beaten whites of 
eggs and baking powder are added and flour mixed in to make 
the dough stifiF enouglh to roll out. Cut it into squares, dust 
with sugar and cinnamon and bake. 



_322_ 

No. 5— ALMOND HEAPS. 

% lb. of sugar Vz lb. unblanched almonds, cut 

3 whites of eggs , into Ibing strips 

Vi tsp. of cinnamon % tsp. of corn starch 

Preparation: Stir the beaten whites of eggs with sugar 
% hour, add almonds, cinnamon and corn starch. Rinse the 
cake pans with water, put little heaps of the batter on and 
bake 20 minutes in a medium oven. 



No. e— ALMOND MACAROONS. 

% lb. of su&ar % lb. blanched, ground almonds 

3 whites of eggs 1 tsp. of corn starch 

Preparation: The beaten Whites of eggs and sugar are 
stirred % hour, then the almonds and corn starch are added. 
The cake tins are rinsed with cold water; put little heaps of 
the mixture on and bake in a medium oven to a golden yellow. 



No. 7— CHOCOLATE MACAROONS WITH ALMONDS. 

% lb. unblanched almonds, cut % lb. of grated sweet chocolate 

into long strips 3 whites of eggs 

% cup of sugar 2 tbsps. of water 

Preparation : The almonds are blanched and cut into long 
strips, then they are stirred in the sugar and water over the 
fire until they become sugared. When this has cooled, stir in 
the chocolate and beaten whites of eggs. Grease ^he pans with 
a bacon rind, put little heaps of the batter on and bake in a 
medium oven. 

No. 8— CHOCOLATE MACAROONS WITH COCOANUT. 

1 lb. of sugar 1 tsp. of cinnamon 

4 eggs 1 lb. of flour 

Vi lb. of sweet, grated chocolate 2 tsps. of baking powder 

% lb. of cocoanut 

Preparation: Sugar and eggs are stirred well, tlhen choc- 
olate, cocoanut, cinnamon, lastly flour and baking powder 
added. Grease the pans with a bacon rind. Put little heaps 
of the batter on and bake in a slow oven. 



No. 9— WALNUT MACAROONS. 

% lb. of ground walnuts 3 whites of eggs 

% lb. of sugar % tsp. of vanilla 

Preparation: The whites of eggs are beaten to a stiff 
froth, sugar is mixed in and stirred i/^ hour, then walnuts and 
vanilla are added. Rinse the pans with cold water, place little 
heaps of the mixture on and bake in a medium oven. 



No. lO^FLAWNS. 

% lb. of butter 1 lb. of flour 

3 eggs 1 tsp. of baking powder 

% lb. of sugar 

For Sprinkling. 
Sugar, almonds and cinnamon 
Preparation: The butter is stirred to a cream with sugar 
and the eggs, then work in flour and baking powder. Roll out 
the dough to the thickness of a knife, cut out designs, sprinkle 
with sugar, blanched and cut or ground almonds and cinna- 
mon and bake in medium hot oven. 

The butter must be washed to take out the salt. 



No. 11— ALMOND PUFFS. 
3 whites of eggs % lb. blanched almonds, cut In 

% lb. of sugar long strips 

1 grated lemon rind 2 tsps. of corn starch 

Preparation: The whites of eggs are beaten to a froth 
and stirred ^ hour with the sugar, grated lemon rind, al- 
monds and corn starch. Rinse the pans with cold water, put 
on small heaps of the mixture and bake in medium oven. 



No. 12— ALMOND STRAWS No. 1, 

6 eggs % lb. blanched, grated almonds 

1 lb. of sugar. 1 grated lemon rind 

Preparation: Eggs, sugar, almonds and lemon rind are 
mixed well and stirred until the dough rolls from the spoon 
with wlhich you stir it. The bread board is floured, the dough 
rolled out to % inch thickness and cut into strips 3 inches 
long and 2 inches wide. Leave them on the board over night, 
turn them in the morning and leave them 6 hours longer, then 
bake in a medium hot oven to a golden yellow color. 



No; 13— VANILLA STRAWS. 

% lb. of butter 1 % tbsps. of vanilla 

% lb. of sugar % tsp. of baking powder 

5 eggs % lb. of flour 

Preparation: The butter is washed to take out the salt, 
creamed and-mixed with sugar, eggs and vanilla. Add the bak- 
ing powder mixed with the flour. Roll out the, dough on a 
well floured board to y^ inch thickness, cut out oblong strips 
and bake them in buttered pans to a dark yellow color. 



— 324 — 

No. 14— ANISE COOKIES. 

1 lb. of sugar 1 level tsp. of ammonium 
4 large eggs 1% lbs. of flour 
Butter, the size of a nut Anise to taste 

Preparation: Sugar, eggs, butter, anise and ammonium 
dissolved in a little milk are mixed well and stirred 1/4 hour, 
t'hen gradually add the flour. Roll out the dough on a floured 
board, cut out designs, leave them on the board for 24 hours 
and bake to a yellow color 

No. 15— VANILLA FLAWNS. 

4 eggs % lb. of sugar 1 tbsp. of vanilla % lb. of flour 

Preparation: The e'ggs and sugar are stirred on the stove 
for ^ hour, then vanilla and flour are added. With a coffee 
spoon put little heaps of the batter on a pan, let them stand 
4 to 5 hours, put in the oven and bake to a nice color. 

No. 16— OATMEAL COOKIES No. 1. 

2 cups of sugar 2 % cups of dry oatmeal 

% cup of lard 1 tsp. of soda dissolved in water 

% cup of hot water Spices to taste 

Preparation: The lard and sugar are stirred well; oat- 
meal, hot water and the dissolved soda mixed in ; 1 pinch of 
salt and some nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon added. Put little 
heaps on a buttered pan and bake to a light brown color. 

No. 17— OATMEAL COOKIES No. 2. 

% lb. of butter % tsp. of nutmeg 

1 cup of brown sugar 2 cups of dry rolled oatmeal 

2 eggs % tsp. of saleratus, dissolved in 
Vz tsp. of salt 1 tbsp. of milk 

1 tsp. of cinnamon Vs tsp. of cloves 2 cups of flour 

Preparation : The butter is rubbed to a cream ; mix well 
with sugar, eggs, salt, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, oatmeal, then 
add the dissolved saleratus and flour. Roll out the dough, cut 
out cookies with a cutter and bake to a light brown color. 

No. 18— BROWN COOKIES No. 1. 

% pt. of molasses 1 pt. of syrup 1 tsp. of cloves 1 tsp. of cinnamon 
% lb. of maple sugar 1 % grated lemon rind 

% lb. of butter 2 tsps. of potash 

% lb. of lard % tsp. of hartshorn salt 

% lb. of chopped almonds 2 V2 lbs. of flour 

% cup of chopped ' itron 
Preparation: Rub the butter and lard to a cream with 
sugar, add molasses, syrup, chopped almonds and citron, 
cloves, cinnamon, grated lemon rind, potash, hartshorn salt and 
flour. Roll the dough, cut out cookies and bake to a light 
brown color. 



— 325 — 

No, 19— BUTTER COOKIES. 

% cup of butter 1 tsp. of saleratus 

2 cups of sugar 4 — 5 cups of flour 

4 eggs 5 tbsps. of sour cream % tsp. of nutmeg 

Preparation: The butter, sugar and eggs must be stirred 
to a cream, then add cream, saleratus, nutmeg, and lastly the 
flour. Roll out the dough, cut out cookies and bake to a golden 
yellow color. 

No. 20— BROWN COOKIES No. 2. 

% lb. of butter % tsp. of cloves 

2 lbs. of syrup 1% taps, of cinnamon 

% lb. of sweet, chopped 1 tsp. of cardamom 

almonds 1 grated lemon rind 
% lb. of bitter, ground almonds % lb. of finely chopped citron 

% oz. potash, dissolved in % 2 lbs. of flour 

cup of rose water 1 % lbs. of sugar 

Preparation : Rub tihe butter to a cream with syrup, sweet 
and bitter almonds, potash, cloves, cinnamon, cardamom, lemon 
rind and citron. Lastly mix in the flour and sugar. Roll out 
the dough, cut out and bake in medmm hot oven. 

No. 21— BROWN COOKIES No. 3. 

1 qt. of syrup % tsp. of ginger 

2 cups of sugar % tsp. of nutmeg 
1 % cups of melted lard % tsp. of salt 

1 cup of hot water % tsp. of pepper 

1 tsp. of baking soda Flour enough to make a stiff 

% tsp. of allspice dough 

1 tsp. of cinnamon 

Preparation: Mix the ingredients well, put in enough 
flour to make a stiff dough, roll it out, cut out cookies and 
bake. 



No. 22— BROWN COOKIES No. 4. 

1 qt of syrup 1 tsp. of cinnamon 

1 lb. of brown sugar 1 pinch of salt 

1 lb. of lard Flour enough to make a stiff 

1 cup of sour milk dough 

2 tsps. of baking soda 

Preparation : Mix well the melted lard, sugar, syrup, cin- 
namon, salt and sour milk in which the soda is dissolved ; then 
work in enough flour to make a stiff dough. Roll out the 
dough, cut out cookies and bake. 



—326— 

No. 23— BROWN COOKIES No. 5. 

1 cup of sugar % tsp. of ginger 

1 cup of lard 1 tsp. of salt 

2 cups of molasses 2 eggs 

2 tsps. of baking soda Flour enough to make a stiff 

1 tsp. of cloves dough 

1 tsp. of cinnamon 

Preparation: Melt the lard and add sugar, molasses, bak- 
ing soda, cloves, cinnamon, ginger, salt, eggs and enough flour 
to make a stiff dough. Roll out the doug'h, cut out cookies 
and bake. 

No. 24— WHITE COOKIES No. 1. 

% lb. of butter 1 tbsp. of cardamom 

% lb. of sugar V2 lemon rind, grated 

V4, lb. of blanched, ground 2 tsps. of hartshorn salt, dis- 
almonds solved in % cup of rose 

2 yolks ol eggs water 

% cup of sweet cream IVi — 1% lbs. of flour 

Preparation: Cream the butter with sugar and yolks of 
eggs, then add almonds, cream, cardamom, lemon rind, dis- 
solved hartshorn salt and flour enough to make a stiff dough. 
Roll it out, cut out cooki^ and bake. 



No. 25— WHITE COOKIES No. 2. 

4 lbs. of fine sugar % lb. of grated orange rind 

1 bottle of rose water 1 grated lemon rind 

4 yolks of eggs % lb. of blanched, chopped 

1 cup of butter almonds 

% oz. hartshorn salt 4 lbs. of flour 

% lb. of finely chopped citron 

Preparation : The sugar is dissolved in the rose water and 
brought to boil. Yolks of eggs and hartshorn salt are mixed 
and stirred into the sweetened rose water while still warm, 
(not hot), then all the other ingredients are quickly mixed in 
and lastly the flour. Roll out the dough, cut out cookies and 
bake to a golden yellow color. 

Remarks : Let the dough stand for a day before baking. 



No. 26— WHITE COOKIES No. 3. 

% lb. of butter 1 lb. of sugar 

3 eggs % cup of blanched, ground 

1 tsp. of hartshorn salt, dis- almonds 

solved in % cup of rose 2 grated lemon rinds 

water 2 lbs. of flour 

Preparation: The butter is washed to remove the salt. 
The cold butter is cut into the flour and mixed with the hands. 



—327— 

then eggs, dissolved hartshorn salt, sugar, almonds and lemon 
rind are added. The dough is now rolled out and cut out with 
a tumbler or cooky cutter. Bake in pans to a golden yellow 
color. 

No. 27— BUTTER STRAWS WITH ALMONDS. 

% lb. of butter 2 eggs 

% lb. of sugar V2 lb. of flour 

% lb. of blanched, ground 1 grated lemon rind 

almonds 1 tsp. of baking powder 

Preparation: Rub the butter to a cream with yolks of 
eggs. Then add the beaten whites of eggs, lemon rind and 
baking powder mixed with flour. The dough is rolled out, 
cut into strips and baked to a golden yellow color. 



No. 28— CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

% lb. of grated, sweet chocolate 3 eggs 
% lb. of butter 1 tsp. of vanilla 

1 lb. of sugar 1 lb. of flour 

% lb. of blanched, ground 1 tsp. of baking powder 

almonds 

Preparation: Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, add 
chocolate, almonds^ eggs and vanilla, then baking powder 
mixed with flour and roll out the dough. Cut out the cookies 
with a tumbler or cutter and bake in a slow oven. 

Remarks: Cookies containing chocolate take more time 
for baking. 

No. 29— NUT CHOCOLATE COOKIES. 

1 cup of grated, sweet chocolate 12 tbsps. of ground walnuts 
1% cups of sugar 1 tsp. of cinnamon 

4 eggs 1 Vz cups of flour 

Preparation: The ingredients are mixed well and stirred, 
tihe flour added last, then this dough is rolled out and cut into 
strips or into disks with a tumbler and baked slowly. 



No. 30— MOLASSES COOKIES. 

1 cup of lard 1 tsp. of cream of tartar 

1 cup of sugar % tsp. of cinnamon 

2 eggs % tsp. of ginger 
2 cups of good or best molasses % tsp. of salt 

2/3 cup of hot water Flour enough to make a stiff 
2 tsps. of soda dough 

Preparation: The lard is melted and mixed with sugar, 
molasses, water, the soda dissolved in a little water, the cream 
of tartar, cinnamon, ginger, salt and enough flour added tQ 
make a stiff dough. Roll out, cut out cookies and bake. 



— sag- 
No. 31— COCOANUT DROP CAKES. 

5 eggs 2 tsps. of baking powder 

2 cups of sugar 3 cups of flour 

% lb. of cocoanut 

Preparation : The ingredients are mixed well and the flour 
stirred in last. With a teaspoon drop on well buttered pans 
and bake until light brown. 



No. 32— HICKORYNUT DROP CAKES. 

1 V2 cups of sugar 1 tsp. of vanilla 

1 cup of butter 1 cup of hickory nuts 

2 eggs 2 tsps. of baking powder 
1 cup of sour cream 3 V2 cups of flour 

1 tsp. of soda 

Preparation: The butter is stirred to a cream and mixed 
with sugar and eggs. The soda is dissolved in the sour milk 
and added, also the vanilla, the nuts and the baking powder 
mixed with the flour. Little heaps of dough are placed on 
well buttered pans and baked in a slow oven. 



No. 33— SMALL HERMIT CAKES No. 1. 

1 % cups of brown sugar 1 tsp. of cloves 

1 cup of butter 1 tsp. of cinnamon 

3 eggs 1 tsp. of baking soda 

1 cup of ground nuts 1 tbsp. of good molasses 

1 cup of finely chopped raisins 3 cups of flour 
1 cup of finely chopped dates 

Preparation: Butter, sugar and eggs are stirred well. 
The soda dissolved in the molasses and mixed in ; then add 
nuts, raisins, dates, cloves, cinnamon and flour. Grease the 
pans with a bacon rind, make little cakes tihe size of a walnut 
and bake in a slow oven. 

No. 34— SMALL HERMIT CAKES No. 2. 

1 cup of butter 1 tsp. of cinnamon 

2 eggs 1 tsp. of cloves 

2 cups of sugar 1 tsp. of nutmeg 

1 cup of currants Flour enough to make a stiff 

1 tbsp. of molasses dough 

1 tsp. of soda 

Preparation: The butter, eggs, sugar and currants are 
mixed well, soda dissolved in the molasses added, also cinna- 
mon, cloves, nutmeg and enough flour to roll out the dough, 
being/ careful not to make it too stiff. Roll out thin, cut out 
wth a cooky cutter or in strips and bake in a hot oven. 



—329— 

No. 35— MOTHER'S COOKIES. 

1 % cups of butter S tsps. of baking powder 
3 eggs 6 cups of flour 

3 cups of sugar Vz grated lemon rind % cup of milk 

Preparation: Cream the butter with eggs and sugar, add 
the milk, lemon rind and baking powder mixed with the flour. 
Roll out quite tlhin, cut out cookies and bake to a golden yel- 
low color. 

No. 36— PEANUT DROP CAKES. 

2 tbsps. of butter 1 tsp. of salt 

2 eggs 4 tbsps. of milk 

4 tbsps. of sugar 1 tsp. of baking powder 
1 cup of ground peanuts 1 cup of flour 

Preparation: The butter, sugar and yolks of eggs are 
stirred to a cream; add the milk, nuts, salt, the beaten whites 
of eggs and baking powder mixed with the flour. With a tea- 
spoon drop on well buttered pans, place a peanut on each and 

bake in a slow oven. 

No. 37— PEANUT STRAWS. 
% cup ol butter 1 large cup of flour 

1 large cup of sugar Some chopped or cut peanuts 4 whites of eggs 

Preparation: The very cold butter is cut into the flour, 
sugar is added and quickly mixed with the hands. Beat the 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add it to the dough. Spread 
the dough into buttered pans, strew the peanuts on and bake 
the cake. When it has cooled, cut it into small equal strips. 

No. 38— SMALL PLAIN COOKIES. 

% cup of butter % tsp. of salt 

% cup of lard 1 Vz cups of sugar 

3 eggs Flour enough to make a stiff dough 
1 tsp. of baking soda 3 tsps. of boiling water 

Preparation: Butter, lard, eggs and sugar are stirred well. 
The soda is dissolved in the hot water and added, then salt and 
not too much flour. The dough should be rather soft; roll it 
out, cut out cookies, sprinkle with sugar and bake to a golden 

yellow color. 

No. 39— RAISIN CAKE. 
1 cup of butter • 1 V2 cups of chopped English 

3 eggs walnuts 

1 % cups of sugar 1 tsp. of cinnamon 

1% cups of finely chopped 1 tsp. oi baking soda 

raisins % cup of hot water 

6 tbsps. of strong coffee 3 cups of flour 

Preparation : The butter, eggs and sugar are stirred well, 
raisins, walnuts, coffee, cinnamon, soda dissolved in the hot 



—330— 

water and flour mixed in. The pans are buttered well and the 
dough put on in teaspoonfuls, flattened a little and baked 
slowly. 

No. 40^GINGER SNAPS. 

1 cup of butter and lard 1 tbsp. of ginger 

1 cup of brown sugar 1 tbsp. of cinnamon 

3 eggs 1 tsp. of cloves 

1 cup of molasses Flour enough to make a stiff 

% cup of sour milk dough. 

2 tsps. of baking soda 

Preparation: Butter, lard, sugar and eggs are stirred 
well ; baking soda dissolved in the sour milk, cofifee, ginger, 
cinnamon, cloves added and flour to make a stiff dough. Roll 
it out, cut out the cookies with a tumbler and bake. 



No. 41— BROWN PEPPERNUTS No. 1. 

1 % lbs. of sugar % lb. ground almonds 

2 lbs of butter % lb. of finely chopped citron 
1 Vz lbs. of syrup 5 lbs. of flour 

% oz. of cardamom 1 % ozs. of potash, dissolved in 

% oz. of cinnamon % cup of rose water 

3 grated lemon rinds 

Preparation : Sugar and butter are stirred to a cream, then 
all ingredients mixed in and lastly the flour. Make little heaps 
or nuts on buttered pans and bake them. 



No. 42— BROWN PEPPERNUTS No. 2. 

1 % lbs. of butter % cup of finely chopped citron 

1 lb. of sugar % lb. of ground almonds 

1 lb. of syrup 1 tbsp. of cardamom 

1 cup of rose water 1 grated lemon rind 

2 tsps. of hartshorn salt 3 lbs. of fiour 

Preparation: Preparation is the same as the one before. 
No. 41, Brown Peppernuts. The hartshorn salt is dissolved 
in the given quantity of rose water. 



No. 43— SUGAR PEPPERNUTS. 

1 lb. of butter 1 tbsp. of cardamom 

1 % lbs. of sugar 2 tbsps, of brandy 

% lb. of blanched, ground 1% tsps. of hartshorn salt dis- 
almonds solved in 1 cup of rose 

% cup of sweet cream water 

% cup of finely cut citron 3 lbs. of flour 

Preparation is the same as given under No. 41. 



—SSI- 
No. 44— VANILLA STARS. 

1 lb blanched, ground almonds 1 lb. of sugar 
5 eggs 2 vanilla beans 

Preparation: The vanilla is crushed with the sugar, then 
yolks of eggs, almonds, beaten whites of eggs mixed in and 
stirred 1 hour. Roll out the dough, make little stars and bake 
in medium hot oven. The board must be well floured when 

rolling out the dough. 

No. 45— EGG CRACKNELS. 
1 lb. of butter % cup of arrack or rum. 

% lb. of sugar 6 hard boiled yolks of eggs 1 lb. of flour 

Preparation: The ingredients are mixed well with the 
hands, and the dough formed into small rings; these are dipped 
into beaten egg, then rolled in sugar and cinnamon and baked 
to a golden yellow color. 

Remarks: The eggs must be boiled 20 minutes. The 
yolks are chopped fine before working into the dougih. The 
whites may be chopped, mixed with salt, pepper, oil and 
vinegar and used for garnishing green lettuce. 

No. 46— ALMOND BREAD. 

1 lb. of brown sugar Vz tsp. of ground cinnamon 

4 eggs Vz tsp. of ground nutmeg 

% lb. of grated, sweet chocolate 1 % tsps. of baking powder 
,^ lb. of chopped almonds 2 cups of flour Vz tsp. of ground cloves 
Preparation: Sugar and eggs are stirred well, the other 
ingredients mixed in and lastly the baking powder mixed with 
tlie flour. Roll out the dough and bake. When done and still 

warm, cut into strips. 

No. 47— SPRINGELE. 

1 lb. powdered sugar % tsp. of ammonia or 

4 — 5 eggs 1 tsp. of baking powder 1 lb. of flour 

Preparation: The sugar and eggs are beaten well. The 
ammonia is pulverized with a knifeblade and added, then the 
flour. Roll out the dough and cut out small cookies, then bake 
in medium oven to a nice color. 

No. 48— PLAIN PEPPERNUTS. 

% lb. of sugar Vz tsp. of ammonia 

2 eggs Flour enough to make a stiff 
1% tsps. of cinnamon dough 

1 tsp. of cloves Vi tsp. of pepper % cup of brandy 

Preparation : The sugar is stirred V^ hour with the eggs, 
then add cinnamon, cloves, pepper and the ammonia, pulver- 
ized with a knifeblade. Stir in enough flour to make a stiff 



— 332 — 

dough, roll it out and cut out small cookies. Leave these for 
2 to 3 days, turning them over and dipping in brandy and bake 

slightly in a medium oven. 

No. 49— ALMOND STRIPS No. 2. 
% lb. of sugar 3 eggs % lb. ot almonds, sliced fine and roasted 
Flour enough to make a stiff dough 
Preparation: Sugar and eggs are stirred well, the al- 
monds mixed in after they are cold, then flour to make a stiff 
dough. Roll it out and cut into small strips and bake. 

No. 50— HONiEY CAKES. 

2 lbs. of -honey 2 tbsps. of sugared orange rind 

1 lb. of sugar % lb. of butter 
5 cents worth of refined potash 4 eggs 

3 tbsps. of rum 1 tsp. of cinnamon 

% lb. of unblanched, chopped % tsp. of ground cloves 

almonds 3 lbs. of flour 

Va lb. of finely cut citron 

Preparation: Melt the honey. Dissolve the potash in the 
rum and cover the dish. Then mix all the other ingredients 
with the honey, add the rum witlh the dissolved potash, and 
lastly the flour. Knead the dough 1 hour and set it in a warm 
place for 5 days. Then roll it out and bake it. When it is still 
warm, cut it into squares, oblongs or triangles. If you wish, 
you may cover them with a frosting, or with almonds and 

citron before baking. 

No. 51— COCOANUT KISSES. 
Whites of 4 eggs 1 tsp. cream of tartar 

2 cups sugar % lb. cocoanut 1 tsp. vanilla 

Preparation: Beat the whites of eggs very stifif; add the 
sugar and beat well ; add cream of tartar and vanilla and lastly 
the cocoanut. Drop from a spoon on a buttered tin and bake 
in a moderate oven one-half hour. 



No. 52— CINNAMON STARS. 

Whites of 8 eggs 1 lb. almonds 1 lb. sugar 1 tbsp. cinnamon 
Preparation: Stir the sugar, eggs and cinnamon together 
one hour ; put six tablespoonfuls in a separate dish for frosting. 
To the remainder, add tihe grated, unblanched almonds; mix 
well ; roll out upon a molding board strewn with flour and 
sugar ; form with a star ; frost ; bake on buttered tins. 

No. 53— LADY FINGERS. 

8 eggs % lb. flour Flavoring and salt % lb. sugar 

Preparation: Beat eggs and sugar stiff, add salt and flour; 
put the dough in a form 3 inches long and 2 inches wide, bake 
rapidly. It will also make a fine cake if baked in a buttered 
pan. 



— 333— 

CHAPTER 22. 

CONFECTIONERY. 



No. 1— MOLASSES CANDY. 
1 qt. of good molasses 1 tbsp. of vinegar 

% cup ol sugar 1 tsp. of baking soda 

1 tbsp. of butter 1 tbsp. of lemon extract or vanilla 

Preparation : Boil the molasses, sugar, butter and vinegar, 
stirring constantly. Test it by dropping a few drops into cold 
water; if it hardens it has been boiled sufificiently. Then add 
soda dissolved in 1 tablespoonful of hot water and lemon es- 
sence or vanilla. Pour the candy into a buttered pan and when 
cool, pull it with your hands well buttered until it is a light 
color. See candy pulling. 



No. 2— VINEGAR TAFFY. 

6 tbsps. of sugar 4 tbsps. of water 2 tbsps. of vinegar 

Preparation: Mix the ingredients and boil 20 minutes, 
then pour into a buttered pan and pull. 



No. 3— CHOCOLATE FUDGES. 

% cup of molasses 2 tbsps. of finely chopped figs 

2 cups of sugar 2 tbsps. of finely chopped raisins 

% cup of milk % cup of ground English walnuts 

% cup of butter 1 tbsp. vanilla 

% cup of grated, sweet chocolate 

Preparation: Mix the molasses, sugar, milk and butter 
and cook 7 minutes, add the chocolate and cook 7 minutes 
more, then add the other ingredients. Pour into a buttered 
pan and when cold, cut into squares. 



No. 4— BUTTER SCOTCH. 

1 cup of corn-syrup % lb. of butter 

2 cups of sugar 1 tbsp. of vinegar 
% cup of water 1 tbsp. of vanilla 

Preparation: Boil the syrup, sugar, water and butter un- 
til it hardens when testing in cold water. Add the vinegar and 
vanilla and pour into a buttered pan. When cold, cut into 
squares. 



—334— 

No. 5— LEMON CANDY. 

1 lb. of sugar 1/3 tsp. of tartaric essence 
% pt. of water 1/3 tsp. of lemon extract 

1 tsp. of cream of tartar 

Preparation: Mix the sugar, water and cream of tartar 
and boil until it cracks and breaks when tried in cold water. 
Pour into a deep buttered dish and when cool, mix in the tar- 
taric essence and lemon extract, and shape into any desired 
form. '- — 

No. 6— CHOCOLATE CARAMELS No. 1. 

2 cups of sugar 1 cup of milk 

1 cup of syrup 1 tbsp. of butter 

% cup of grated, sweet 1 tbsp. of vanilla 

chocolate 

Preparation: Mix the sugar and syrup and boil 5 min- 
utes, add tihe other ingredients and boil until it stiffens. Pour 
into a buttered pan and cut into squares. 



No. 7— BON-BONS. 

2 lbs. of sugar 1 vanilla bean or 

1 pt. of water 2 tbsps. of vanilla extract 

Preparation: Mix the sugar, water and vanilla and boil 
until it cracks when tried in cold water. Pour into an oiled 
pan or porcelain platter, spread it out and cut into cubes. 

' Remarks: You can also flavor with rosewater, orange or 
lemon instead of vanilla. 

No. 8— CHOCOLATE CANDY. 

3 pieces of sweet chocolate or % cup of milk 

2 % tbsps. of cocoa % tbsp. of vanilla 
2 cups of sugar % tbsp. of butter 

Preparation: Mix the ingredients and boil 3 minutes, then 
pour into buttered pans and cut into cubes when cold. 



No. 9— NUT CANDY. 

3 cups of brown sugar 1 pinch of salt 

% cup of milk 1 tsp. of vanilla 

% cup of cream 1 lb. of chopped walnuts 1 tbsp. of butter 

Preparation : Mix the sugar, milk and cream and boil un- 
til, when trying a few drops in cold water, it holds together 
and forms a soft mass. Then add butter and salt, take from 
the stove, mix in vanilla and nuts and stir the mixture until 
it gets creamy. Pour it to 1 inch thickness into buttered pans 
and cut it into cubes when cold. 



— 335— . 

No. lOu- POPCORN CANDY. 

1 cup of sugar 1 pinch of salt - ) ;' 

1 tbsp. of butter 3 tbsps. of water 4 qts. of popped corn 

Preparation: Pour enough popped corn into a pan to 
cover the bottom of the pan, put it on the stove to g'et very 
hot, being careful not to burn it. Mix the sugar, butter, water 
and salt and boil until it hardens when tried in cold water. 
Now mix it with the hot corn, add the rest of the popped corn 
and stir until it rolls from the spoon, then spread it out in but- 
tered tins. 

Remarks: It is best to use old popcorn. 



No. 11— COCOANUT DROPS. 

1 cocoanut About 2 cups of sugar 1 white of egg 

Preparation : Grate the cocoanut and weigh it, add to it 
y^ of its weight in sugar, mix this with the beaten white' of 
^Z%j drop on buttered paper and bake in oven 15 minutes. 



No. 12— CHOCOLATE CARAMELS No. 2. 

1 cup of sugar 1 cup of molasses 

% cup of butter 1 cup of milk 

% cup of grated, sweet chocolate 

Preparation: Cream the sugar and butter, add dhocola'tfe, 
molasses and milk and boil until it hardens when tried in cold 
water. Pour it about 1 inch thick into buttered pans and when 
cold, cut into squares with a buttered knife. 



No. 13— PEANUT CANDY. 

2 cups sugar 1 cup chopped peanuts 

Preparation: Put two cups white sugar into a porcelain 
kettle; stir constantly until dissolved. Add one cup chopped 
peanuts. Turn at once into a buttered dish and cut in squares. 



No. 14— PULLED TAFFY. 

3 cups granulated sugar % cup water 

% cup mild vinegar Butter, size of a walnut 

Preparation: If vinegar is strong, use two-thirds water 
and one-third vinegar. Boil the sugar, water and vinegar to- 
gether until half done ; then add the butter and stir until mixed 
well. When it snaps when tested in cold water, it is done'. 
Pour on buttered tins, let cool, flavor and pull. 



• — 336— 

No. 15— ICE CREAM CANDY. 

2 cups sugar % cup water 

yi cup vinegar Butter, siEe of an egg 

; I I Preparation : Boil sugar, vinegar and water together 
about ten minutes ; add butter and let it boil another five min- 
utes. Try a few drops in a glass of cold water. If hard, pour 
the mass into a buttered tin and set in a cool place until cool 
enough to pull. Pull it until it becomes white. Cut in pieces 
afe desired. 

No. 16— CRACKER JACK. 

3 qts. popped corn % cup sugar 
% tsp. soda % cup syrup 
% tsp. vinegar % cup peanuts 

Preparation: Boil syrup, sugar and vinegar until it will 
crack when tried in cold water. Add the soda, stir well and 
poiir the foamy mixture over the corn. 



No. 17— POP CORN BALLS. 

2 cups granulated sugar 8 qts. popped corn 

1 cup water Flavoring to taste 

Preparation: Pop the corn and remove all tjhe hard ker- 
nels. Boil the sugar and water until it hairs, add the flavor, 
pour over the corn and form into balls-. 



No. 18— CHOCOLATE FUDGE. 

1 cup granulated sugar 2 squares chocolate 

1 cup brown sugar 2 tbsps. butter 

1 cup milk 1 tsp. vanilla 

Preparation : Put sugar, chocolate and milk on to boil and 
stir occasionally to prevent burning. Remove from fire as 
soon as a soft ball can be formed when mixture is tested in 
cold water. Add butter; stir vigorously Until creamy. Pour 
into buttered shallow pan and mark in squares. 



No. 19— CARAMELS. 

1 cup milk % lb. sweet chocolate 

1 cup syrup 1 tbsp. flour 

1 cup sugar 1 tbsp. butter 

1 cup brown sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

Preparation: Mix everything together. Boil until it 
hardens in cold water. The last quarter hour stir well. Put 
in buttered tins. Wlhen cold, cut in squares. 



—337— 

No. 20^FUDGE. 

2 cups sugar 1 tsp. vanilla 

1 cup grated chocolate 1 % cups milk or 1 cup cream 

1 cup chopped walnuts Butter, size of walnut 

Preparation: Boil together sugar, chocolate and milk or 
cream until it hardens in water. Add the butter ; take off the 
fire ; add the vanilla and walnuts. Stir until it thickens. Pour 
in a greased tin and put in a cool place to harden. 



— 338 — 

CHAPTER 23. 

PRESERVES. 



Preserving Fruits and Vegetables. 

Only the best quality of fruit should be used for preserv- 
ing, and the preserves must be kept in a cool dry place. 

Glass jars are the best to put up preserves ; tin cans must 
be soldered and this cannot very well be done at home. 

The kettle in wlhich the preserves are cooked should be 
clean and kept for this purpose only. The spoon or ladle used 
for stirring is best of silver or new wood. 

The jars should be clean and scalded before using. They 
must have good rubbers and be closed so tightly that not a 
drop will come out when turned upside down. 

No. 1— STRAWBERRIES. 

1 lb. of strawberries % lb. of sugar 

Preparation: The strawberries must be dry and sound. 
Clean them, pour water on and let stand for a few minutes, 
then drain in a colander. Now weigh the fruit and take % 
lb. of sugar to every pound of fruit. Boil the fruit and sugar 
a few minutes over a slow fire, then fill it at once into the jars. 
Close these tightly and set them upside down to test the 
covers. When they are cold, store them in a cool, dry place. 

Can also be made according to No. 13, but cook only 20 
minutes instead of 2 Ihours. 

No. a— RASPBERRIES. 

1 lb. of raspberries Vz lb. of sugar 

Preparation: The preparation of the raspberries is the 
same as that of strawberries. See No. 1, Strawberries. 

No. 3— PINEAPPLE. 

1 lb. of pineapple % cup of water, scant % lb. of sugar 

Preparation: Pare and slice the pineapple, which is best 
done with a silver knife. Weigh the fruit after it is sliced 
and take to every pound of fruit % lb. of sugar and Y^ small 
cupful of water. Boil the sugar and water 5 minutes, skim it 
and put in the fruit to boil 20 minutes until it is transparent, 
skim it again and put it hot into the jars ; then treat the jars 
as in No. 1 and store them in a cool, dry place. 



—339— 
No. 4— PEACHES AND APRICOTS. 

1 lb. at peaches or apricots ^, cup of water 
% lb. of sugar 4 peach stones 

Preparation: Peel the peaches or apricots very thin, cut 
in halves and stone them. To one pound of fruit take % lb. 
of sugar and ^4 cup of water. Boil the sugar, water and 4 
crushed stones 5 minutes, skim and add the fruit and boil a 
few minutes longer until it is soft. Do not let it get mushy. 
Skim tihe fruit again and fill it hot into the jars. Then treat 
the jars again as in No. 1 to test the covers. Store them in 
a cool, dry place. 

Remarks : The peelings may be used for jelly. See Prep- 
aration of Jelly. 

No. 5— PEACHES IN JELLY. 

2 lbs. of nice, large peaches 1 pt. of water 

1 lb. small peaches 3 lbs. of sugar Brandy paper 

Preparation: Cut the small peaches into pieces, stone 
them, weigh them, boil until tender in the water and drain in 
a colander. Now put the sugar into the fruit syrup and boil 
until thick, skim it and put the large peeled peaches into it 
whole. Boil until the fruit is tender but not mushy, then put 
it carefully into the jars, pour the thick syrup on, place a 
brandy paper over and close the jars up tightly. 



No. 6— APRICOTS IN JELLY. 

2 lbs. of nice, large apricots 1 pt. of water 

1 lb. of small apricots Brandy paper 3 lbs. of sugar 

Preparation: The preparation of apricots is the same as 
that of peadhes. See No. 5, Peaches in Jelly. 



No. 7— PICKLED PEACHES. 

1 lb. of peaches % cup of water 

% lb. of sugar 3 cloves 

% cup of vinegar 1 small stick of cinnamon 

Preparation: Peel the peaches, leave them whole and 
weigh them. Boil the given quantity of water with sugar, 
vinegar, cloves and cinnamon 5 minutes, skim and add the 
peaches. When the fruit is soft, put it into the cans or jars 
and pour the syrup over. If there is too much syrup, boil it 
down to fill the cans or jars. Cover with a brandy paper and 
close them up tightly. The stone jars may be tied up with 
parchment paper. 



—340— 
No. 8— PICKLED APRICOTS. 

1 lb. of apricots % cup of water 

Vi lb. of sugar 3 cloves 

Vi cup of vinegar 1 small stick of cinnamon 

Preparation: The preparation of pickled apricots is the 
same as that of pickled peaches. See No. 7, Pickled Peaches. 

No. 9— APRICOTS OR PEACHES IN BRANDY. 

1 lb. of apricots or peaches % cup of water 

% lb. of sugar 1 wineglassfuU of French brandy 

Preparation: Peel and weigh the apricots or peaches. 
Boil the sugar and water 5 minutes and skim, then put in the 
fruit, boil a few minutes and put into the jars. Let the syrup 
boil down and pour it onto the fruit hot, then pour the brandy 
on top, close the jars tightly and treat them as in No. 1. 

Remarks : To every pound of fruit use 1 glass of brandy. 

No. lO^STRAWBERRIES IN JELLY. 

IVz lbs. of nice, large straw- 2 lbs. of sugar 

berries Juice of % lemon 

1 lb. of small strawberries Brandy paper 

Preparation: Prepare the large strawberries as in No. 1, 
and drain off the water. Treat the'small berries the same way, 
put the latter on the stove with the sugar, boil until soft, then 
rub through a sieve or a white, clean cloth so the juice will run 
into a dish. Put this juice back into the kettle, add to this the 
lemon juice and boil it down to jelly. Then add the large 
strawberries and boil 3 to 4 minutes. Put carefully into the 
jars, boil down the syrup if it is too much and pour it on the 
fruit hot. Cover with brandy paper and close the jars tightly. 
Treat them as in No. 1, to test the covers and when cold, store 
them in a cool, dry place. Melted paraffine is often used to 

make jars air-tight. 

No. 11— RASPBERRIES IN JELLY. 

1 % lbs. of raspberries Juice of % lemon 

2 lbs. of sugar Brandy paper 

Preparation: The preparation of raspberries is the same 
as that of strawberries. See No. 10, Strawberries in Jelly. 

No. 12— STONED SOUR CHERRIES. 

1 lb. of nice cherries % lb. of sugar Brandy paper 

Preparation: Wash the cherries, stone them and weigh 
them. To every pound of cherries take % lb. of sugar, boil 
5 minutes and fill hot into the jars. Cover with a brandy 
paper and treat the jars as in No. 1. 



• — 341— 

No. 13— LARGE SWEET CHERRIES. 

1 lb. of cherries Brandy paper 

1 lb. of sugar % cup of water 

Preparation: Wipe the cherries with a cloth and place 
them into the jars. Boil tihe sugar and water 5 minutes, skim 
it and pour over the cherries. Close the jars, but not tightly. 
Put the jars into a boiler with water reaching nearly to the 
top of the jars. Cover the boiler, boil for 2 hours, take out tIhe 
jars, close them tightly and treat them as in No. 1. 

Remarks: The cherries may be stoned. Put a tray or 
several thicknesses of cloth on the bottom of the t>oiler, also 
hay or cloth between the jars. 



No. 14— COGNAC CHERRIES. 

1 lb. of large, sweet cherries 1 cup of water 

1 % lbs. of sugar 1 % pts. of corn brandy- 

Preparation: Wash and dry the cherries, prick them 
with a needle, and trim the stems witlh a pair of scissors. Fill 
a jar half full with them. Boil down the sugar and water to 
one-third of the quantity and add the brandy. When this 
syrup is cold, pour it into the jars, close them tightly and treat 

them as in No. 1. 

No. 15— MIRABEI^LB PLUMS, No. 1. 
1 lb. of mirabelles % lb. of sugar % cup of water 

Preparation: Mirabelles are the small, round, yellow 
plums; they must be firm and sound when preserved. Rub 
them with a cloth and prick them with a needle a few times. 
Boil sugar and water 5 minutes, skim, add the plums, boil a 
few minutes and put into the jars. Boil down the syrup and 
pour it over the plums hot. Treat the jars as in No. 1 and 
store- in a cool, dry place. 

No. 16— MIRABELLE PLUMS, No. 2. 

1 lb. of Mirabelle Plums Brandy paper 

% lb. of sugar % cup of water 

Preparation : Treat the plums as before. After they have 
been rubbed with a cloth and pricked, fill a jar half full. Boil 
the sugar and water 10 minutes and pour over the plums hot. 
Close the jars, but not tightly, then place into a boiler with 
water to boil 2 hours. After that time take out the jars, close 
them tightly and treat them as in No. 1. 

Remarks: Put a piece of brandy paper inside before clos- 
ing them up tightly. 



— 342— • 

No. 17— PLUMS. 
1 lb. of plums % lb. of sugar % cup of water 

Preparation: Wipe the plums with a cloth. Boil the 
sugar and water for 5 minutes, skim and add the plums. Let 
tihem boil up a few times ; as soon as they begin to crack, skim 
and put them carefully into the jars. Boil the syrup down and 
fill into the cans hot. Then close the jars tightly and treat 
them as in No. 1. 

No. 18— PEELED PLUMS. 

1 lb. of plums 1 small stick of cinnamon 

% lb. ol sugar 1 tbsp. of wine vinegar % cup of water 

Preparation: Put the large, blue plums into hot water for 
a minute and skin them. With a ^harp knife make a slit into 
the side of each plum and take out the stone ; place them into 
the jars in layers. Boil the sugar and water with cinnamon 
and vinegar for 5 minutes, skim and pour it hot over the plums. 
Close the jars and boil them in a boiler for 45 minutes. Then 
take them out, close them tightly and treat the jars as in No. 1. 

Remarks: Plums must be prepared quickly, as they will 
easily turn brown. To avoid this, one may sprinkle some of 
the sugar over as soon as they are skinned. 

No. 19— PLUMS IN RED WINE. 

1 lb. of plums % cup of wine vinegar 

% lb. of sugar 1 clove 

% cup of red wine 1 small stick of cinnamon. 

Preparation: Wipe the ripe, blue plums with a cloth. 
Boil t!he sugar, red wine, vinegar, cloves and cinnamon 5 min- 
utes, skim, add the plums and boil a few minutes. Take them 
out as soon as the skins begin to crack and put them into the 
jars. Boil down the syrup and fill it hot into the jars. Close 
the jars tightly and treat them as in No. 1. 

No. aO^PICKLED PLUMS. 

3 lbs. of plums Several small sticks of cinnamon 

1 lb. of sugar % pt. of vinegar 6 cloves 

Preparation: Wipe the plums with a cloth, prick with a 
toothpick several times and place carefully into .a stone jar. 
Boil the sugar, vinegar, cinnamon and cloves a few minutes, 
skim and pour over the plums boiling hot. This process is re- 
peated 3 times. When the juice boils for the third time, the 
plums are put in, let boil up a few times, then all is put back 
into tihe stone jar or cans and tig'htly closed or tied up. These 
pickled plums are nice to serve with meat. 



No. 21— GOOSEBERRIES. 

3 lbs. of gooseberries A few sticks of cinnamon 

2 % lbs. of sugar 1 % cups of water 

Preparation: Clean, wash and drain nice, large gooseber- 
ries, which are not overripe. Boil the sugar, water and cinna- 
mon until clear and jelly like, then add the berries, boil a few 
minutes and put into jars. Boil down the syrup and pour it 
into the jars. Qose tightly and treat them as in No. 1. 

Remarks : If after 1 day the syrup is too thin, pour it off 
and boil it once more. 

No. 22— PICKLED PEARS. 

2 lbs. of pears % cup of wine vinegar 

1 lb. of sugar Several sticks of cinnamon 

1 cup of water 2 cloves 

Preparation: Peel the pears, cut them into halves and 
core them, then put into cold water or rub with lemon juice 
to keep them white. Boil the sugar, water and vinegar 5 min- 
utes with the cloves and cinnamon tied into a white cloth, 
skim, add the pears and boil until soft but not mushy. Fill 
the fruit into jars and close them tightly, then treat them as 
in No. 1. 

No. 23— PICKLED CRAB-APPLES. 

1 lb. of crab-apples % cup of vinegar 

% lb. of sugar 1 cup of water 1 stick of cinnamon 

Preparation: Wipe the little red crab-apples with a cloth, 
leave the stems on. Boil the sugar, water, vinegar and cinna- 
mon 5 minutes, skim, add the apples and boil 10 minutes. They 
must not cook to pieces and the skin must stay whole if pos- 
sible. Place the apples carefully into the jars, boil down the 
syrup and pour it on hot. Then close the jars tiglhtly and treat 
them as in No. 1. 

No. 24— BLUEBERRIES, HUCKLEBERRIES. 

1 lb. of blueberries % cup of vinegar or , 

% lb. of sugar Juice of % lemon 

Preparation: Pick the berries over, wash and drain them, 
then boil in sugar and vinegar or lemon juice a little while. 
When still hot, pour them into jars, close tightly and treat 

them as in No. 1. 

No. 25— GREEN GAGES. 
1 lb. of green gages % lb. of sugar % cup of water 

Preparation: The genuine green gages which have red 
dots are tihe best for preserving. Wipe them with a cloth, 
shorten the stem and prick the plum to the stone several times 



—344— 

with a darning needle. Then boil the sugar and water 5 min- 
utes, put in 8 to 10 plums, boil them until the skin begins to 
burst, take them out immediately and put them into the jars. 
Continue this until all plums are cooked. Pour iJhe syrup 
over, close the jars and put them into a boiler with water to 
cook for 45 minutes. Then take them out, close the covers 
tightly and when cold, store them in a cool place. 



No. 26— PEELED GREEN GAGES. 

1 lb. of green gages % lb. of sugar % cup of water 

Preparation: Peel and stone the plums. Boil the sugar 
and water 5 minutes, add the plums and boil until tender, then 
skim and put them into the jars. If there is too much syrup, 
boil it down and pour it over the plums hot, then close the 
jars tightly and treat them as in No. 1. 



No. 27— CRANBERRIES. 

1 lb. of cranberries Brandy paper 

% lb. of sugar % cup of water 

Preparation : The American cranberries are in the market 
in winter to be used freslh, while the German cranberries are 
in the market in summer to be preserved for the winter. Pick 
them over and wash , them in much water, then drain in a 
colander. Boil the sugar and water 1 minute, add the berries 
and boil until they are light red and transparent, skim and fill 
into cans or stone jars. Boil syrup 15 to 20 minutes longer and 
pour boiling hot over the berries. Cover witlh a piece of brandy 
paper and close the cans or tie up the jars tightly. If you put 
them into jars, let the fruit cool off before you put on the 
brandy paper and tie up the jars. 



No. 28— CURRANTS. 

1 lb. .of currants 1 lb. of sugar 

Preparation: Only the largest currants are used for pre- 
serves. Strip them' from the stems, wash in cold water, drain 
well and weiglh them. Boil the sugar and berries slowly for 
10 minutes, skim and put into jars hot. Close the jars tightly 
and treat them as in No. 1. 



No. 29— BLACKBERRIES. 

1 lb. of blackberries % lb. of sugar 

The Preparation is the same as that of currants, but let 
them boil only a few minutes instead of 10 minutes. 



—345 — 

No. 30— MELONS. 
3 lbs. of melon 4 cloves 

3 lbs. of sugar Some sticks of cinnamon 

1 pt. of water % pt. of wine vinegar Brandy paper 

Preparation: Peel ripe but firm melons, cut them in halve.s 
and scoop out the seeds with a silver spoon, then cut into small 
pieces and weigih. Boil the sugar, water, vinegar, cloves and 
cinnamon 5 minutes, add the melon and boil until transparent 
and soft. Now fill them into jars, boil down the syrup and 
pour it on the fruit hot. Close the jars tightly and treat them 

as in No. 1. ~ 

No. 31— QUINCES. 
5 lbs. of quinces 2 finely chopped lemon rinds 

3 lbs. of sugar Several sticks of cinnamon 

10 cloves Water 

Preparation: Pare the quinces, slice them' very thin and 
boil in water. When partly done, take them out and drain on 
a cloth. Boil the sugar, 2 cups of water, cinnamon, lemon rind 
and cloves 5 minutes, skim, add the partly boiled quinces and 
boil until soft. Then put them into jars with the syrup, close 
the jars tightly and treat as in No. 1. 

No. 33— QUINCES IN COGNAC. 

1 lb. of quinces 3 sticks of cinnamon 
% cup of water \i lemon rind cut fine 

% lb. of sugar 3 cloves 1 v/ineglassful of cognac 

Preparation: Pare the quinces, cut them into small pieces 
and put at once into cold water. When they are all cut up, 
put them into boiling water and boil until tender. Boil the 
sugar, water, cloves, cinnamon and lemon rind 1 minute, add 
the quinces and boil slowly for 5 minutes. Put the quince 
into jars, bOil down the syrup until it gets thick, add the cog- 
nac and pour it hot over the fruit. Close the jars tightly and 
treat them as in No. 1. — "^ 

No. 33— PUMPKIN, 
3 lbs. of pumpkin flesh 5 cloves 

2 % lbs. of sugar 2 sticks of cinnamon 
1 qt. of vinegar 1 piece of ginger 

3 qts. of water % lemon rind • Brandy paper 

Preparation: Peel the pumpkin, cut in halves, scoop out 
the seeds and all juicy or thready matter. Cut the fleslh into 
slices 1/4 inch thick and put into 1 qt. of cold vinegar mixed 
with 21^ qts. of cold water. Let it stand 12 hours. Then 
boil the sugar, % qt. of water and the spices tied into a white 
cloth 1 minute. Add the sliced pumpkin after draining it well. 



—346— 
and boil until tender and transparent. Put into jars, boil down 
tihe syrup until it thickens, fill up the jars with it while boil- 
ing hot, cover with a brandy paper, close and treat them as in 

No. 1. 

No. 34^GREEN OR SMALL YELLOW ORANGES. 
60 small oranges 3 lbs. of sugar % qt. of water 

Preparation: Prick the oranges with a fork and blanch 
them in water for 5 minutes. Then cover them with water 
and let tihem stand 10 days, changing the water twice daily. 
On the eleventh day boil the sugar and % qt. of water 5 min- 
utes, skim and pour cold on the well drained oranges. On the 
twelfth day pour off the sugar water and boil it until it gets 
thick. Put in the oranges, let them boil a few minutes and 
then fill the jars. If necessary, boil the sugar water a little 
more, pour it over tIhe oranges, close the jars tightly and treat 

them as in No. 1. 

No. 35— PICKLED WALNUTS. 
1 lb. of green walnuts 20 grams of whole cinnamon 

1 lb. of sugar 1 cup of water 

Preparation: The walnuts must be picked before they 
form a hard shell. Qean the walnuts well and let stand in 
water 14 days, changing the water once a day. Then drain 
well and boil until tender in fresh water. Boil the sugar, water 
and cinnamon 1 minute, add the nuts and boil a few minutes, 
pour into a porcelain dish and let stand 3 days, tihen boil again 
a few minutes and fill the nuts into jars. Boil the syrup if it 
is not thick enough and pour it over the nuts cold, then close 

the jars well. 

No. 36— GREEN ALMONDS. 
60 green almonds 1% lbs. of sugar 4 qts. of water 

Vi lb. of wood ashes 1 pt. of water % tsp. of bishop extract 

Preparation : The almonds must be green, but soft enough 
to be easily pierced with a fork. Mix the wood ashes and 4 
qts. of water and boil until the mixture feels greasy. Now put 
in the almonds and boil them until the skin can be pulled off. 
After skinning them, put them into fresh water, pierce them 
with a fork, put into hot water, set them on the stove and let 
them simmer, but not boil, until they are soft. Pour off tIhe 
water, put on fresh cold water and let stand until the next day. 
Now boil the sugar in 1 pt. of water until it gets thick and 
pour it cold over the well drained almonds. The next day 
pour off the sugar water, boil it again, and when cold, pour 
over the nuts and let stand another day. The third day re- 
peat the cooking again, add the bishop extract, when cold, 
pour it over the almonds in the jars a«d close them tightly. 



No. 37— GRAPES. 

3 lbs. of grapes % lb. of sugar % cup of water 

Preparation: Boil the sugar and water 5 minutes, pour 
over the grapes and let stand for 12 hours. After this time 
pour off the sugar -wrater, bring it to boil, add the grapes, let 
them boil a few minutes and put into jars. Boil the syrup 
down thick, pour over the grapes hot, close the jars tightly 
and treat them as in No. 1. 

Remarks: The little seeds are taken out with a skimmer. 



How to Make Jelly, Marmalade and Jam. 

No. 38— STRAWBERRY MARMALADE. 

1 lb. of strawberries % lb. of sugar Brandy paper 

Preparation: Rub the prepared strawberries through a 
sieve, then mix with sugar and boil down to a thick marmalade, 
stirring constantly. Fill it into jars, let it get cold, put on a 
piece of brandy paper and close the jars well, or tie them up 
with parchment paper. 

No. 39— RASPBERRY JELLY. 

4 lbs. of raspberries 1 pt. of water 

2 lbs. of currants 2 % lbs. of sugar Brandy paper 

Preparation: Qean and wash the currants and raspber- 
ries, then put on the stove with the water and boil until the 
berries burst and are soft; then pour them through a thin 
white cloth and let the juice drain off into another dish. Weigh 
this juice and to 1 pound of juice take % pound of sugar or 
to 1 pt. of juice take 1 lb. of sugar and boil 5 minutes or until 
it jellies wlhen a little of it is cooled in a dish. Put into jars 
or glasses and when cold, cover with the brandy paper and 
tie up well with parchment paper. 



No. 40— CURRANT JELLY. 

Currants Brandy paper 

1 pt. of currant juice 1 lb. of sugar 

Preparation : Clean and wash the ripe, red currants, press 
through a white cloth, squeezing out all juice. This juice is 
left to stand over night. The next day slowly pour off the 
clear juice from the settlings. To each pint of juice take 1 
pound of sugar, boil it until it jellies when cold. Put it hot 
into glasses or jars, let it get cold, cover with brandy paper 
and tie it up or close the jars well. 



— 348 — 
No. 41— BLACK CUiRRlANT JELLY. 

Black currants 1% cups of sugar 

1 pt. currant juice Brandy paper 

The preparation of black currants is the same as that of 
red currants. See Currant Jelly, No. 40. 



No. 42— ROSE JELLY. 

2 lbs. of green apples 1 pt. of rose water 

3 pts. of water 1 drop of oil of roses 
1 lb. of red currants 3 lbs. of sugar 

Preparation : Wash the unpeeled apples, cut them up and 
boil without stirring, in a covered kettle with 3 pts. of water 
until they are soft. When nearly done, put in the currants and 
boil a while until the berries burst. Now pour the whole mass 
into a white muslin bag and let the juice run into a dish. Let 
it stand for a while, then carefully pour it off the settlings in- 
to the preserve kettle. Add the sugar and rosewater and boil 
until it jellies when cold. Stir in the drop of rose oil, fill t3ie 
jelly into glasses, let it get cold, cover them with paraffine or 

tie them up. 

No. 43— BLUEBERRY JELLY. 
1 lb. of blueberry juice 1 lb. of sugar Juice of 1 lemon 

Preparation: The preparation of blueberry jelly is the 
same as that of Currant Jelly, see No. 40. 

No. 44— APPLE JELLY. 

S lbs. of sweet-sour apples 4 tbsps. of lemon juice 

4 qts. of water % vanilla bean or 1 tbsp. of 

4 lbs. of sugar vanilla essence 

% pt. of white wine Brandy paper 

Preparation: Wash and quarter the unpeeled apples and 
boil slowly in 4 qts. of water until tender, but do not stir them. 
Then pour the mass into a muslin bag and let the juice run 
into a dish. When settled, pour the juice into the kettle and 
boil down to one-half the quantity. Then add sugar, wine, 
lemon juice and vanilla and cook until it jellies ; fill it into 
glasses, when cold, cover with a piece of brandy paper and tie 

them tightly. 

No. 45— CRAB-APPLE JELLY. 
1 cup of crab-apple juice Vanilla to taste 

1 cup of sugar Water Brandy paper 

Preparation: Wash and quarter the crab-apples, put on 
■with water to barely cover the apples, t'hen cover the kettle 
and cook until tender. When they are done, pour them into 
a white muslin bag and let the juice run into a dish. Care- 



— 349 — 

fully pour the juice off the settlings, add to each cup of juice 
one cup of sugar, put in vanilla as much as you like and boil 
tihe whole to jelly, which will take about 10 minutes. Pour it 
into glasses or jars, when cold, cover with a brandy paper and 
close up tightly. . 

No. 46— QUINCE JELLY. 
8 lbs. of quinces 4 tbsps. of lemon juice 

4 qts, of water • 4 lbs. of sugar Brandy paper 

Preparation: The preparation is the same as that of apple 
jelly. See No. 44, Apple Jelly. 

No. 47— PEACH MARMALADE. 

1 lb. of peaches % cup of water 

% lb. of sugar Brandy paper 

Preparation: The peaches are peeled very thin, cut into 
pieces and boiled in the water until soft. Rub through a sieve. 
Moisten the sugar witlh water and boil 5 minutes, skim it, add 
the fruit and boil 20 minutes, stirring constantly. Pour it into 
glasses or jars, cover with a brandy paper when cold and close 
up the glasses or jars tightly. 

Remarks: You can add to the marmalade some kernels 
of peaches and cut the peaches into very small pieces with- 
out rubbing them througih a sieve. Through the long cook- 
ing much of the fruit flavor is lost. 

No. 48— APRICOT MARMALADE. 

1 lb. of apricots % cup of water 

% lb. of sugar Brandy paper 

The preparation is the same as that of peach marmalade. 
See No. 47, Peach Marmalade. 

No. 49— PLUM MARMALADE. 

1 lb. of large, blue plums % lb. of sugar, scant % cup of water 
Preparation: Peel and stone the plums, then slice into 
narrow strips. Boil the sugar and water 1 minute, skim, add 
the sliced plums and boil until soft and thick but not mushy. 
Then fill them^ into glasses or jars, cover with a brandy paper 
and close them up tightly. 

No. SO^RASPBERRY MARMALADE. 

1 lb. of raspberries % cup of sugar Brandy paper 

The preparation of raspberry marmalade is the same as 
that of strawberry marmalade. See No. 38, Strawberry Mar- 
malade. 



— 350 — 

No. 51— PLUM JAM. 

30 lbs. at plums 1 lemon rind 

2 tsps. of ground cloves 2 tsps. ot ground cinnamon 

1 small piece of ginger 10 green nuts 

Preparation: Wipe the plums with a cloth, stone them 
and boil 4 Ihours while stirring constantly with a wooden ladle. 
After this time put in the spices and boil the jam until it is 
thick, then pour it into stone jars, put these into the oven to 
dry a little over the top and tie them up with paper, or strew 
cinnamon on thickly before tyingf them up. Store the jam in 
a cool, airy place but never in tihe cellar ; this way it will keep 
for years. 

No. 52— PEAR JAM. 

5 lbs. of pears 2 lbs. of sugar 1 qt. of water 1 tsp. of cinnamon 
Preparation : Quarter the pears and boil in the water until 
tender. When you preserve pears, you may use the peelings 
for jam by boiling them with the pears and rubbing them 
through a sieve. Then put the jam back on the stove and 
boil it until it gets thick, stirring constantly. While it is boil- 
ing, add sugar and cinnamon ; fill it into stone jars, cover with 
ground cinnamon when cold, tie up the jars well and keep them 
in a dry, airy place. 

No. 53— MIXED MARMALADE. 

1 lb. of apples 1 lb. of quinces 1 lb. of pears 1 lb. of melon 

1 lb. of yellow plums 1 stick of cinnamon 

1 lb. of peaches 2 qts. of water 3 lbs of sugar Brandy paper 

Preparation : Wipe the fruit with a cloth, slice it and boil 
with the water and cinnamon until very soft. Then rub 
through a fine sieve, add the sugar and boil until it thickens, 
stirring constantly. Fill it into jars or glasses ; when cold, 
cover with a brandy paper and close them up tightly. 



No. 54— GRAPE JELLY. 

1 cup of grape juice 1 cup of sugar Brandy paper 

Preparation: Wash the grapes, boil with a little water 
until they burst, then pour them into a muslin bag and let the 
juice run into a dish. After it has settled, pour the clear juice 
off carefully from the settlings and to every cup of juice take 
one cup of sugar. Now boil it down until it jellies, skim it 
and fill into glasses, cover with a brandy paper when cold and 
close up tightly. 



—351— 
The Preparation of Fruit Juices or Syrups. 

No. 55— RASPBERRY SYRUP. 

1 lb. of raspberries 1 lb. of sugar 

Preparation: Put the berries into a deep dish or jar in 
alternating layers witlh sugar and let it stand for 2 days. Strain 
the juice into clean bottles through a white muslin or linen 
bag, cork tightly and then boil i/^ hour in water, being careful 
that the bottles stand upright and do not touch. Put a tray or 
cloth on the bottom of the boiler or kettle and pack hay be- 
tween the bottles. Put a cover on the boiler or kettle. 



No. 66— STRAWBERRY SYRUP. 

1 lb. of strawberries 1 lb. of sugar 

The preparation of this syrup is the same as that of rasp- 
berry syrup. See No. 55, Raspberry Syrup. 

No. 57— CHERRY SYRUP. 

1 pt. of cherries A little fine oil 

% lb. of sugar 1 stick of cinnamon 

Preparation: Take nice, sour cherries, pick oflf the stems 
and crush the cherries with the stones in a mortar or in a fruit 
press. The next day pour off the clear juice from the settlings 
and boil 15 minutes with sugar and cinnamon, skimming it 
frequently. When cold, strain it and fill into bottles ; into each 
bottle of syrup pour 1 teaspoonful of fine oil, cork the bottles 
well and seal them with sealing wax. Before using the syrup, 
dip off the oil with cotton batting. 

No. 58— RASPBERRY WINE. 

2 lbs. of raspberries 25 grams of tartaric acid 

1 pt. of water 2 % lbs. of sugar 

Preparation: Dissolve the tartaric acid with the water in 
a stone jar, add the raspberries and let stand for 30 hours. 
Press through a white muslin or linen bag and let it stand a 
while, then carefully pour it off from the settlings, add the 
sugar and stir the syrup for % hour. Fill it into clean, dry 
bottles, cork them loosely or put cotton batting on top of the 
bottles. Let stand 8 weeks before using and then strain the 
juice because the impurities have come to the top. 

No. 59— WILD STRAWBERRY WINE. 

2 lbs. of strawberries 25 grams of tartaric acid 
1 pt. of water 2 % lbs. of sugar 

The preparation is the same as that of raspberry wine, see 
No. 58, Raspberry Wine. 



—352— 
No. 80— BLUEBERRY JUIOE. 

1 qt. of juice 1 lb. ol sugar 1 stick of cinnamon 

Preparation: Crush the berries and press through a white 
muslin bag. Put the juice into a cool place to clarify. Care- 
fully pour the clear juice off from the settlings and boil it 10 
minutes with the sugar and cinnamon. When cold, strain it, 
fill it into bottles and cork well. 



No. 61— ORANGE JUICE. 

8 large oranges 10 pieces of lump sugar 

1 lemon 1 lb. of sugar % pt. of water 

Preparation: Clean the oranges and the lemon with a 
cloth and grate off the rind with- the lump sugar. Mix the 
sugar, water, grated rind of oranges and lemon and boil 1 
minute, then add orange and lemon juice, boil another minute, 
strain through a cloth, fill into bottles and cork well. 



No. 62— QUINCE JUICE. 

1 pt. of quince juice 1 lb. of sugar 

Preparation: Take nice, yellow quinces, clean them with 
a cloth, grate them down to the granular part, press out and 
put into glasses or jars over night to clarify or settle. The 
next day carefully pour off the clear juice, boil 3 minutes with 
the sugar and when cold, fill it into bottles, and cork well. 



No. 63— CURRANT JUICE. 

1 pt. of juice %, lb. of sugar Oil , % cup of water 

Preparation: Qean the currants, press through the fruit 
press and let stand for a few hours to clarify. Then carefully 
pour off the settlings, boil sugar and water 5 minutes, skim 
and put in the juice. Boil 10 minutes, skim and when cold, 
fill into bottles. Into each bottle pour 1 teaspoonful of fine 
oil ; cork well, seal the bottles and keep them in the cellar, 
Before using, dip off the oil with cotton batting. 



- No. 64— BLACKBERRY JUICE. 

1 pt. of juice % lb. of sugar Oil % cup of water 

Preparation :. The preparation is the same as that of cur- 
rant juice. See No. 63, Currant Juice. 



—353— 
No. 65— TUTTI-FRUTTI IN ARRACK. 

1 qt. of arrack or rum % lb. of large, black, stoned 

1 lb. of strawberries cherries 

1 lb. of raspberries % lb. of blue, peeled plums 

% lb. of large, red, stoned 10 medium sized peaches 

cherries 10 apricots 

6 lbs. of sugar 10 good preserving pears 

Preparation: The fruit must be ripe but not soft. Take 
eaclh fruit as it appears in the market, clean it and put into a 
large jar. For instance, if strawberries are in the market, pre- 
pare these, wash and drain thern, put them first into the jar 
with % lb. of sugar and 1/2 pt- of arrack. Close the jar well 
and if it is a stone jar, tie it up well. Continue to put in the 
rest of the fruit as it comes and use the rest of the sugar and 
arrack, closing the jar or can well every time. Peaches, pears 
and apricots must be peeled and quartered before they are put 
in and pears should be boiled partly done in sugar and water. 

Remarks: After the fruit has all been used, the juice may 
be used for pudding sauce. 

Preserved Vegetables. 

No. 66— ASPARAGUS. 

Asparagus To 1 qt. of water 1 tsp. of salt 

Preparation: Take nice, white, thick stalks of asparagus, 
peel carefully and cut into small pieces that will fit into a jar. 
Economy jars may be used for asparagus. Pack the asparagus 
with heads downward into the jars. Mix 1 teaspoonful of salt 
into eaclh qt. of water and fill up the jars with this salt water. 
Close the jars and place them into a. wash boiler with cold 
water enough to cover the jars by 1 inch. Place a cloth on 
the bottom of the boiler, if it has no tray, cover the boiler 
and boil for 3 hours. After that, take out the jars, dry them 
and keep them in a cool, airy place. 

No. 67— WAX BEANS No. 1. 

Wax beans 1 qt. of water 1 stick of cinnamon 3 cloves 

Salt water V2 cup of sugar % cup of vinegar 

Preparation : Wash the beans, string and slice them, and 
boil until .tender in boiling salt water. Drain the water off 
and pack them into the jars. Boil the water, vinegar, sugar, 
cinnamon and cloves a few minutes, skim and pour it over 
the beans boiling hot. Close the jars tightly and place them 
upside down to test the covers and rubbers. 

Remarks : The syrup should have quite a sweet-sour taste. 
The jars must be well filled with the beans. 



—SSI- 
No. 68— WAX BEANS No. 2. 

Young wax beans To 1 qt. of water 1 tsp. of salt 
Preparation: The beans must be very tender. String the 
beans and leave tihem whole. Wash them and fill the jars 
with them. Mix the salt water and pour over the beans, close 
them and boil tihem in a covered wash boiler as before, for 3 
hours. Then take out the jars, which may be Economy jars, 
and test the covers. If some of them are not tight, put on 
others and place the jars into the boiler to boil 15 minutes 
longer. 

No. 69— GREEN BEANS. 

Very young, green beans To every qt. of cold water, 1 tsp. of salt. 
Preparation: The preparation of these beans is the same 
as that of wax beans No. 2, see No. 68, Wax Beans No. 2. 

No. 70— SALTED GREEN BEANS. 

Green beans Salt 

Preparation: Wash, string, and slice the beans, and pack 
in layers with salt into stone jars. Each layer of beans must 
be stamped down with a wooden . pestle. Through this pro- 
cess some juice will collect on the beans when they are all 
in. Now place a wthite piece of muslin on them, a little board 
weighted with a stone on top of that and keep them cool. 
When using, soak them in water to take out some of the salt. 
Look to it that there is no mould forming on them. The cloth, 
board and stone must be cleaned occasionally. 

No. 71— YOUNG CARROTS. 

Young carrots For pickling, to each qt. of water, 

Salt water for cooking 1 tsp. of salt 

Preparation: The young carrots slhould be of a uniform 
size. Clean and wash them, put them into boiling salt water 
until they are partly done, pour them into a colander and drain 
off the water. Place them in Economy jars, the first layer 
must have the points up and the second layer the points down. 
Make the jars % full and pour on the cooled salt water in the 
proportions given above, close the jars tightly and boil them 
for 11/2 hours in a boiler, as stated before. 

No. 72— RED BEETS. 
2 tbsps. of caraway seeds 3 tbsps. of horseradish pieces 

1 pt. of vinegar % cup of sugar 2 tsps. of salt 5 lbs. of red beets 

Preparation: Qean the beets, boil until tender in boiling 
water, skin them and slice them about %o inch thick into a 



stone jar. Strew caraway seeds on every layer and place the 
pieces or slices of horse radish between each layer. Boil tihe 
vinegar with salt and sugar and when cold, pour it over the 
beets to well cover them, tie up the jar or close the can Veil. 

No. 73— GREEN PEAS. 
Green peas To every qt. of cold water, 1 tsp. of salt 

Preparation: Shell the peas, wash them and put into 
Economy jars. Boil the salt water, cool it and fill the jars 
with it. Close the jars and boil in a covered wash boiler for 3 
hours. Then take them out, dry them and test the jar covers. 
If these are not tight, put on other covers and boil the jars for 
1/^ hour longer. The peas must not be yellow but tender and 
sound. If there are bad ones among them, they must be care- 
fully selected or the preserves will not keep. 

No. 74^CORN. 

Very fresh corn Juice from the corn cobs 

Preparation: Cut the kernels from the cobs and put into 
the jars, press the juice out of the cobs and pour it over the 
corn. Close the jars and boil in a covered washboiler for 5 
Ihours. After cooling, take out the jars, test them as to the 
rubbers and covers, close them' up tightly and treat them as in 
No. 1. Covers that are not tight must be replaced by others 
and the jars put back into the boiler to cook another 15 min- 
utes. Remarks: Everything must be very clean. 

No. 75— WHOLE TOMATOES. 

Nice, medium sized tomatoes To every qt. jar full of tomatoes 

Fresh water 1 tsp. of salt 

Preparation: Dip the tomatoes into boiling water for 1 
minute and skin them, put into Economy jars. Strew the salt 
into the jar and fill it with cold water. Close the jars and boil 
them in a covered boiler for 1 hour. The water in the boiler 
must be % inch above the jars. 

No. 76— PICCALILLI. 



Vinegar water 4 cups of sugar 7 cups of vinegar 

1 pk. of green to'matoes About 1 cup of salt 

10 cents worth of small onions 5 cents worth of mixed spices 

Preparation: Slice the tomatoes and strew with 1 cup of 
salt. Peel the onions and put into salt water. Let both to- 
matoes and onions stand until the next day. Now take both 
out of the salt water and bring tihem to boil in weak vinegar 
water. When that turns yellow, strain it, put the tomatoes 
and onions back into the kettle, add sugar, 7 cups of vinegar 
and spices and boil until nearly done. Fill into cans or stone 
jars and close them tightly. 



—356— 

No. 77— TOMATO MARMALADE. 

Tomatoes Sugar 

Preparation: Put the tomatoes into boiling water for one 
minute, skin them, slice thin and bring slowly to a boil. Boil 
to a marmalade, stirring constantly. When you think it is 
thick enough, mix in the sugar and boil 15 minutes more. Put 
into jelly glasses and tie them up well. 

Remarks: If you like, the tomatoes may be pressed 
through a sieve before the sugar is added. 

No. 78— PLAIN TOMATOES FOR SOUP. 

Tomatoes 
Preparation : Peel the tomatoes, boil until tender and fill 
into jars. Close tightly and put in a dry, cool place. 

No. 79— SWEET TOMATOES. 

1 lb. of tomatoes Vi slice of lemon 3 cloves 

Vz lb. of sugar % cup of water 1 stick of cinnamon 

2 pieces of ginger 
Preparation: Put the medium sized, red tomatoes into 
boiling water for a minute and skin them. Boil the sugar, 
water, cloves, cinnamon and ginger 1 minute, skim, add the 
tomatoes and boil slowly until they are tender but not too 
soft. Fill them carefully into the jars. Boil the syrup thick, 
pour it over the fruit and close the jars tightly. Treat the 
jars as in No. 1 and store them' in a cool, dry place. 

No. 80— TOMATO CATSUP.' 

1 pk. of tomatoes % tsp. of ground allspice 

1 tsp. of ground, black pepper 3 large onions 
% tsp. of red pepper 2 tbsps. of sugar 

% tsp. of ground cloves Salt to taste 

Preparation: Peel and slice nice, ripe tomatoes, add the 
spices and boil until thick. Strain thru a fine sieve, put it 
back into the kettle, boil until of the consistency of thick 
cream, fill into bottles and when cold, cork them well. 



No. 81— RHUBARB. 

Rhubarb 
Preparation: Skin tihe rhubarb, cut into small pieces and 
pack into jars or bottles. Close them well and boil in a cov- 
ered wash boiler with a tray or cloth on the bottom for 45 
minutes. The water is put into the boiler cold and must be 
% inch above the jars or bottles. When they are cooled off, 
take them out, test the covers, treat tlhem as in No. 1. Before 
using the contents, put sugar in and boil it a little, then serve 
cold. 



—357— 

No. 82— RHUBARB MARMALADE. 

Sugar Rhubarb 
Preparation: Skin the rhubarb, cut into small pieces, 
bring slowly to boil in a little water, stirring constantly until 
it thickens. Add sugar, fill it into jars and close them up 
tightly. 

No. 83— SAUERKRAUT. 

Firm, white cabbage heads Salt Pepper-corns 

Preparation: Remove the bad outer leaves, cut the cab- 
bage in halves, cut out the heart, slice the cabbage in fine 
shreds and put into a clean barrel or stone jar. First place 
whole cabbage leaves over the 'bottom of the jar or barrel, 
pack on a layer of sliced cabbage, strew it with salt and pep- 
per-corns, pack on another layer and so on until the cabbage 
is all used up. Stamp it down firmly so the liquor will cover 
the cabbage, then cover it with a clean piece of white muslin, 
a board and a stone to- hold it down. Look after it occasion- 
ally and clean the cloth, board and stone. After the cabbage 
has fermented enough, which you will know by its sour odor, 
put it into a cool place. 

No. 84^PARSLEY. 

Green parsley Salt 

Preparation: Wash the parsley, cut off the stems and wipe 
dry. Pack in layers with salt into jars, close the jars tightly 
and keep them like preserves. 

Remarks: When using, soak in water to take out some 
of the salt and close the jar well every time. 



No. 85— TO KEIBP RED AND WHITE CABBAGE. 
Cabbage heads Paper Twine 

Preparation: The cabbage heads must be firm. Remove 
all bad leaves, tie the heads in paper and hang them up in the 
cellar. They will keep all winter. 



No. 86— PARSLEY, CARROTS, CELERY AND BORAGE 
FOR THE WINTER. 

Firm parsley roots Firm borage 

Firm carrots Firm celery roots Fine, dry sand 

Preparation : The sand must be fine and dry. Pour it in- 
to the cellar on the cement floor or into a box. Cover each 
vegetable with it. In this way they will keep all winter. 



—358 — 

No. 87— TO PRESERVE PEARL ONIONS. 

Onions Salt Vinegar 

Preparation: Salt the onions well and leave in the salt 
for 8 to 10 days, peel and partly cook them in vinegar. Put 
them into jars with sufficient salt to cover them and close the 
jars well. 

No. 88— CHAMPIGNONS OR MUSHROOMS. 

3 lbs. of champignons 1 qt. of water 

2 qts. of water 2 tbsps. of salt 2 tbsps. of vinegar 

Preparation: There are forest champignons and manure 
champignons. The former are whiter and easily turn soft. 
They grow wild while the latter are cultivated. 

The champignons to be preserved must be firm; if they 
have been exposed to the air too long, tihey are not good for 
preserving. Wash them in 2 qts. of water mixed with 2 table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. Cut ofif the stems and brush both the 
stems and caps of the champignons in the vinegar water until 
they are wlhite. Rinse them in 1 qt. of fresh water mixed with 
1 tablespoonful of vinegar. The quart of water mixed with 2 
tablespoonfuls of salt is brought to boil. As soon as you have 
prepared a handful of champignons, throw them into the boil- 
ing salt water and let them boil until the second handful is 
prepared. Now take the boiled dhampignons out with a skim- 
mer, put them into the jars and continue the boiling until the 
jars are % full, pour on the liquor to fill the jars completely. 
Close up the jars or if you are using tin cans, solder them, and 
boil them in a boiler % to 1 hour. 

Remarks: Only in this careful manner, white dhampig- 
nons are obtained and preserved. 



No. 89— CHAMPIGNONS IN VINEGAR. 

1 lb. of small champignons % tsp. of white pepper 

1 tbsp. of salt 1 tbsp. of salt 

1 tbsp. of vinegar 1 qt. of wine-vinegar 

Preparation: The champignons must be firm and small. 
Qean them by rubbing each one with salt and brushing them 
with a brush, rinse them in cold water mixed with 1 table- 
spoonful of vinegar. Bring tihe one quart of vinegar to boil 
with 1 tablespoonful of salt and pepper, and add the cham- 
pignons. As soon as they begin to get tender, fill them into 
the jars and when cold, close tightly. 



—359— 
No. 90— TRUFFLES. 

1 lb. of trufEles 1 tbsp. of salt 1 pt. of Water 
Preparation: Put the truffles in water for 1 hour and 
brush them until they are perfectly black and clean. Then 
put them immediately into boiling water for 1/2 hour and put 
into jars. Boil 1 pt. of water mixed with 1 tablespoonful of 
salt, let it get cold and fill the jars with it, close them^ and 
boil in water in a covered boiler for 1 hour. 



No. 91— SALT PICKLES No. 1. 

Medium sized pickles Minced dill In 6 qts. of water, % lb. of salt 
Cherry leaves from sour cherry trees 

Preparation : Brush the pickles in fresh water, pack into 
a stone jar in alternate layers with cherry leaves and chopped 
dill, the uppermost layer being leaves and dill. Boil the water 
and salt, let it get cold and pour it on the pickles to cover 
them by 1 to 2 inches. Leave them in a warm place for about 
a week until they have fermented sufficiently, then set them 
into a cool place. They .can soon be used. 

Remarks: If you want these pickles for the winter, pack 
t'hem into a cask, pour the brine over to completely fill the 
cask and close the cask tightly, except for a bung-hole in the 
cover through which it can work off. Put the cask into the 
sun for a while and when the pickles Ihave fermented suffi- 
ciently, put a new cork into the bung-hole and carry the cask 
into the cellar. Examine the cask from time to time to see if 
there is sufficient brine on it. If there is not enough, add fresh 
cold brine and close up the bung-lhole. 



No. 92— SALT PICKLES No. 2. 

Medium sized pickles Half water and half vinegar 

Salt Dill Herbs Mustard seeds 

Pepper-oorns Cloves 1 piece of ginger 

Preparation: Wash the pickles and pack them into a 
stone jar with salt about % inch thick. Pour cold water over 
to cover them well and place a weight on them. After 3 weeks 
the pickles are taken out, washed and the water drained off. 
Then put them back into the jar in layers with dill, herbs, 
cloves, pepper-corns, and a small piece of ginger, the upper- 
most layer being herbs. Now boil one-half the quantity that 
the jar would hold of equal parts water and vinegar and a 
handful of salt and pour it warm over the pickles. The liquid 
should cover the pickles by 2 inches. Cover wit)h a round, 
white muslin bag in which you put yellow and green mustard 
flour and place a weight on them. 



— 360 — 
No. 93— VINEGAR PICKLES No. 1. 

Small pickles about 3 to 4 Inches long 
Salt Tarragon Dill . Summer savory 

Pepper-corns Bay-leaves Cloves Wine vinegar 

Some green or red peppers 

Preparation : Cut the blossoms and stems off and put the 
pickles in fresh water for several hours, drain through a colan- 
der, strew thickly with salt and let stand over night. The 
next morning rub the salt off, pack them closely into a stone 
jar. Make layers of pickles, herbs and spices, the latter on 
top. Boil enough wine vinegar to cover them by 2 inches and 
pour it Ihot over them. After 4 days, pour it ofif again, boil 
and skim it, let it get cold, then pour it over again. If there 
is not enough to cover them, boil some more. Put a weight 
on the pickles, and set in a cool place. 

No. 94— VINEGAR PICKLiES No. 2. 

Medium sized, firm cucumbers or pickles 
Vinegar Tarragon Green or red peppers 

Summer savory Thyme Cloves Pepper-corns Bay-leaves 

Preparation : Wash the cucumbers and put on to boil with 
the vinegar. As soon as they begin to boil, take them off, 
drain them and let tlhem- get cold. Put in layers in a stone 
jar with herbs and spices, the latter on top. Then cook fresh 
wine vinegar and pour on sufficient to cover the pickles by 
1% inches. The vinegar must be hot. After 8 days, drain off 
the vinegar, cook it again and pour it hot over the pickles. 
When it is cold, cover them, put a weight on and keep them 

in a cool place. 

No. 95— MUSTARD PICKLES. 
Large, full grown cucumbers Salt 

Tarragon Pearl onions Some cloves 

Mustard seeds Horse radish Spanish peppers 

Basil Pepper-corns Wine vinegar 

Preparation: Peel the 'cucumbers, cut in halves, scoop, out 
the seeds and cut the vegetable into desirable pieces. Cover 
thickly with salt and let stand over night. The next morning 
rub the salt off, pack the cticumbers into stone jars or cans 
and put all herbs and spices named between them. To every 
quart of vinegar take one tablespoonful of salt, boil it, and 
when cold, pour it over the cucumbers. The next day pour 
it off and cook it again and pour on cold. Repeat this process 
for the third time. The vinegar should cover the cucumbers 
by 1 to 2 inches. Tie up the jars or close the cans tightly. 
After three weeks they will be ready to serve. 



— 361— 

No. 96— SPICED PICKLES. 

Large, full-grown cucumbers 
Pearl onions Water Some cloves Mustard seeds 

Wine vinegar Sugar Pepper-corns Salt 

Preparation: Peel t'he cucumbers, cut in halves, scoop 
out the seeds and cut the vegetable into desirable pieces. Over 
every 3 lbs. of cucumbers, sprinkle 1 oz. of salt and leave them 
over night. The next day rub off the salt well and boil them 
in a pickle of 1 pint of vinegar, i^ pint of water, 1 lb. of sugar, 
1 stick of cinnamon 3 inches long, 6 cloves, 10 pepper-corns 
and 1 tablespoonful -of mustard seeds. When it boils, put in 
the cucumbers and boil them until they are transparent. Fill 
tlhem into jars and close up tightly. 



No, 97— MIXED PICKLES. 

Very white cauliflower Lemon slices 

Small salad beans Whole white pepper-corns 

Pearl onions Tarragon leaves 

Red radishes Bay-leaves 

Cucumbers 2 to 3 Inches long Nutmeg 

Red and green Spanish peppers Pieces of horse radish 

Very small carrots Salt Good wine vinegar 

Prepxaration : . Prepare each vegetable in the proper way. 
Break the cauliflower into little roses. Cauliflower, beans, 
onions and carrots should be separately cooked in salt water 
and drained. Put salt on the cucumbers and radishes and let 
stand over night, the next day rub off the salt. When all is 
prepared, arrange nicely according to color in jars and strew 
the pepper-corns, tarragon and bay-leaves, nutmeg, slices of 
lemon, cubes of horse radish over each layer. Then boil the 
vinegar, cool it and pour it over to cover well. After a few 
days, repeat this process with the vinegar and close the jars 
tightly. 

No. 98— DRIED PEARS. 

Pears 

Preparation: Peel the pears, cut them in halves or quar- 
ters and place on very clean baking pans. Cover the bottom 
of the oven with bricks and start a fire to produce moderate 
heat. Then place the pans on the bricks and dry the pears, 
turning them occasionally. This will require fully one day. 
Store the dried pears away in bags. 



— 362— 

No. 99— DRIED APPLES. 

Apples 
Preparation : Tlie process of drying apples is the same as 
that of drying pears. See No. 98, Dried Pears. Air the apples 
for a few days. 

No. lOO^SUGARBD LEMON AND ORANGE RIND. 

1 lb. of lemon or orange rind 2 lbs. of sugar 

Preparation: Peel the oranges or lemons very thin and 
cut the rind, pack into jars and cover thickly with sugar. 
Close the jars well. 



No. 101— GREEN COLOR FOR COLORING ICES OR 

OTHER FOOD. 

White of an egg 20 coffee beans, (raw) 

Preparation; Rinse the coffee beans, and set aside in the 
beaten white of an egg for 13 hours in a covered dish; the 
nicely colored white of egg will then be found convenient to 
color ices or other sweetmeats. 



No. 102— GLAZED CHESTNUTS. 

Good chestnuts 1 lb. of sugar 

Boiling salt water % cup of water 

Preparation: Boil the chestnuts in salt water until they 
can be easily pierced with a pin or needle. Drain the water 
off and take off the brown thick sJiell and then the thin white 
skin underneath. String 4 to 5 chestnuts on a toothpick or 
thin stick so they do not touch. Boil the water and sugar un- 
til it is jelly-like, dip the stick with chestnuts in and turn them 
around in the sugar, take them out and dip and turn them 
once more, then hand tihem to a second person who will turn 
them until the sugar is cooled. Place them in an upright posi- 
tion into a dish and put in a dry place until you strip them 
from the stick to serve. 



No. 103— ROASTED ALMONDS. 

1 lb. of sweet almonds hi vanilla bean % pt. of water 

1 lb. of sugar A few drops of oil 

Preparation: Boil the sugar, water and vanilla for 15 
minutes and add the blanched almonds. Stir them until tlhey 
pop, then pour them into oiled dishes. 



—363 — 
No. 104— SALTED ALMONDS. 

Almonds Fin© salt Hot lard 

Preparation: Put blanched, sweet almonds into clean, 

boiling lard for 1 minute. Then take them out with a skimmer 

and place on pans lined with blotting paper to drain off the 

lard. Dust them with very fine salt and dry them in the oven. 

No. 105— CANNED SPRING CHICKEN. 
Chicken cut into desirable pieces Salt and pepper to taste 
Preparation: Dress the chickens, cut into desirable pieces, 
wash and pack into Economy jars. Salt and pepper to taste, 
pour on cold water to fill the jars, close them and boil in a 
wash boiler with cold water enough to cover the jars by 1 
inch. Cover the bottom of the boiler with several thicknesses 
of cloth. Put the cover on the boiler and boil for 3 hours. 
When cold, take out the jars and store them in a cool place. 

No. 106— CANNED SALMON OR OTHER LARGE FISH. 
Preparation: Dress and wash the fish and remove the 
backbone. Cut it into pieces that will go into a jar, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and fill the jars with cold water. Close 
the jars and boil them in a boiler as before for 3 hours. When 
cold, store them in a cool place. 

No. 107— CANNED FRIED CHICKEN, DUCK OR 
WILD GAME. 

Chicken Water Butter lor frying Salt and pepper 

Preparation: Carefully dress and prepare the fowl, bake 
quickly in tihe oven for 20 minutes, then cut into desirable 
pieces, leaving the bones in. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and fill the jars with the hot meat. Make a gravy from the 
drippings and pour it on hot to cover the meat well. Qose 
the jars and boil in a covered boiler as before for 3 hours. The 
water in the boiler must cover the jars by 1 inch. When they 
are cold, put them into a cool place. 

No. 108— MINOE MEAT. 
For About 22 Pint Glasses. 
1 pk. green tomatoes 2 cans syrup 1 tsp. nutmeg 

1 cup cold water 1 cup vinegar 1 tbsp. allspice 

3 lbs. brown sugar 2 tsps. salt 1% tbsps. cloves 

1% tbsps. cinnamon 1 lb. raisins 2 lbs. currants 

2% lbs. finely chopped apples 2 finely chopped oranges 
1 lb. finely chopped plums 1 finely chopped lemon 

% lb. finely chopped suet 

Preparation: Chop tomatoes fine, let boil 5 minutes, run 



—364— 

through a sieve, and add the other ingredients. Let boil 45 
minutes and stir or let steam 30 minutes. While hot, put in 
glasses and screw covers on tightly. Very good. 

No. 109— SPICED GREEN TOMATOES. 

For About 12 Pint Glasses. 

1 pk. green tomatoes % cup salt 2 cups ground onions 
5 cups vinegar 2 cups sugar % cup mustard seed 

2 cups ground table celery 6 ground red peppers (empty inside) 

Preparation: Put the tomatoes through a meat grinder, 
add salt and let stand all nigiht. Drain and squeeze out the 
juice. Mix well and pack cold into jars,- closed tight. 

No. IIO-SWEET-SOUR SLICED CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

For About 15 Pint Glasses. 
18 large cucumbers l^^ cups brown sugar 2 tsps. mustard seed 
9 onions 2 tsps. celery salt 1% tsps. pepper 

1 % pts. vinegar 1 Vz tsps. ginger 1 % tsps. salt 

IV2 tsps. turmeric powder 1% tsps. cinnamon buds 

Preparation: Peel and slice fine cucumbers and onions, 
sprinkle with salt and let stand one hour. Drain and add re- 
maining ingredients ; let come to a boil and seal while hot. 

No. Ill— CHILI SAUCE. 

For About 6 Pint Bottles. 

1 onion 12 medium sized ripe tomatoes 3 red peppers 

2 cups vinegar 1 tbsp. salt 2 tsps. allspice 

3 tbsps. sugar 2 tsps. cloves 2 tsps. grated nutmeg 

Preparation: Peel and slice tomatoes; add peppers and 
onion, cut very fine. Boil one-half hour, and add the rest of 
tihe ingredients and boil two hours. Put in jars while hot and 
seal well. 

No. 112— ENGLISH CHOW CHOW. 

For About 24 Pint Glasses. 
1 qt. young cucumbers 2 qts. small white onions 

2 qts. string beans 2/3 cup mustard 2 tbsps. celery seed 

3 qts. green tomatoes 1 oz. turmeric powder 2 tbsps. allspice 

2 heads cauliflower 6 red peppers 2 tbsps. whole cloves 

2 heads cabbage 4 tbsps. mustard seed Vinegar 

Preparation: Put cucumbers, onions, tomatoes, cauli- 
flower, and cabbage through the food chopper. Mix all to- 
gether and put into stone jars with a sprinkling of salt. Let 
stand 24 hours and drain off the brine. Put the vegetables in 
a kettle over the fire and stir in the turmeric, red pepper 
chopped fine, mustard seeds, allspice and ground mustard. 



—365— 

Pour over enough vinegar to cover. Cover tightly and let 
simmer until thoroughly cooked, stirring often. Put into glass 
jars and seal while hot. 

No. 113— CHILI SAUCE. 

For About 18 Pint Glasses. 

1 pk. ripe tomatoes 1 cup sugar 

2 cups chopped celery 1 qt. vinegar 

3 green peppers % cup salt 

3 onions 2 ozs. mustard seed 

Preparation: Chop tomatoes fine and strain, add all other 
ingredients, boil about two hours, fill -glasses while hot and 
close up tight. 

No. 114^DILL PICKLES. 

For About 14 Pint Glasses. 

To 6 qts. of water, add 2 qts. Cloves 

vinegar Allspice 

1 lb. of salt A good quantity of dill 

5 cents worth of Weinsteln- Horse radish 

saeure (tartaric acid) Grape leaves 

Pepper Bay-leaves 

Preparation: Place a layer of cucumbers in a stone jar 
and sprinkle over some of the spices ; continue until all are 
used, laying the dill and leaves between each layer. Put a 
tight, well-weiglhted cover over them. 



No. 115— MUSTARD PICKLES. 

For About 20 Pint Glasses. 

2 qts. green tomatoes 1 lb. Coleman's mustard 

2 qts. small onions 1 tbsp. turmeric 

2 qts. string beans 1 gal. vinegar 

2 heads cauliflower 20 small cucumbers 2 cups sugar 

Preparation: Slice the tomatoes, cut the cauliflower in 
small pieces, and salt vegetables over night. In the morning 
drain thoroughly. Mix mustard with vinegar. When the 
vinegar boils, put all in and boil one-half hour. Bottle while 
hot. 



—366 — 

SANDWICHES. 



No. 1— EGG SANDWICHES. 

Preparation: Slice -white or brown bread into thin slices. 
Spread with butter, mayonnaise and finely chopped eggs ; press 
two slices together and trim into desired shapes. 

This is a wonderful improvement over the ordinary rather 
tasteless sandwiches made with butter alone. 

No. 2— CELERY SANDWICHES. 
Preparation: Chop celery fine and add mayonnaise to 
taste. Spread on buttered bread and remove crusts. Cut in 
narrow strips and serve garnished with celery tips. 

No. 3— OLIVE SANDWICHES. 
Preparation: Mix cream cheese smootlh with mayonnaise 
dressing, add a dozen chopped olives and use as a filling for 
bread and butter sandwiches. 

No. 4^CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 
Preparation: Made the same as veal sandwiches. Al- 
ways remember to prepare the bread as for bread and butter 
sandwiches. Put finely chopped cucumbers on top. 

No. 5— VEAL SANDWICHES. 
■ Preparation: Spread bread with butter and mayonnaise. 
Place a layer of chopped meat and a layer of chopped cucum- 
bers or olives between the slices. 

No. 6— EGG SANDWICHES. 
Preparation : Use hard boiled eggs. Chop finely and mix 
with mayonnaise dressing. To this may be added a finely 
chopped pickle, a little ham, sardines mashed to a paste or 
shredded lettuce. Spread on bread and butter sandwiches. 

No. 7— PEANUT SANDWICHES. 
Preparation: Spread butter on bread and add peanut 
butter ; put a lettuce leaf between. 

No. 8— CORNED BEEF SANDWICHES. 
Preparation : Chop cold corned beef to a fine paste ; mix 
with a little mayonnaise dressing. Beat the mixture until 
smooth and well blended and spread gvenly on buttered bread. 



— 36T— 

CHAPTEE 24. 
THE MENU. 



Family Dinner. A Menu for one day in a Month. 

JANUARY. — Oxtail soup. — Fried whitefish. — ■ Small potato 
balls. — Head lettuce. — Fillet with champignons. — Aspara- 
gus. — Riced potatoes. — Mixed salad. — Vanilla ice cream 
■with hot chocol9,te dressing. — Coffee and cake. 



FEBRUARY. — Grape fruit. — Chicken soup. — Meat patties. • — ■ 
Tongue ragout with dumplings and puff-paste scallops. — To- 
mato salad with boiled mayonnaise dressing. — Rabbit roast 
with apple sauce and red cabbage. — Orange cream. — Coffee. 



MARCH. — Oyster soup. — Fine ragout in shells. — Asparagus 
with tongue. ■ — • Lamb crown roast with turnips and mashed 
potatoes. — Chocolate pudding with vanilla sauce. — Coffee. 

APRIL. — Bouillon in cups. — Bread sticks. — Fish in red wine 
sauce. — Fried potatoes. — Chicken salad. — Fillet beefsteak 
with sliced goose liver. — ■ Macaroni with tomato sauce. — Cold 
rice pudding with peaches and whipped cream. 



MAY. — Vegetable soup. — ■ Lamb roast. — Stuffed potatoes. — 
Spinage. — Green asparagus with salmon. — Fried pigeons 
with gooseberry jam. — Cheese. tart and coffee. 



JUNE. — ■ Tomato soup. — Ham noodles. — Roast beef with fried 
potatoes and cauliflower. — Asparagus salad. — Strawberry 
ice with macaroons. — Bread and butter and cheese. — Coffee. 



JULY. — Bouillon with marrow dumplings. — Fish ragout in shells. 
— Baked ham with Burgundy sauce. — Stuffed tomatoes. — 
Potato chips. — Red farina pudding with cream. — Coffee. 



AUGUST. — Green pea soup. — Lobster with remoulade sauce. — 
Veal chops with apple sauce. — Head lettuce. — Broiled spring 
chicken. — ■ Fried potatoes. — Fruit salad. — Coffee and cake 
or tart. 

SEPTEMBER. — Bouillon with egg sponge dumplings. — Chicken 
fricassee with dumplings and puff-paste scallops. — Hamburg 
steak with green beans and creamed potatoes. — Champignon 
salad. — Chocolate cream. — Bread and butter. ■ — Cheese. — 
Coffee. 

OCTOBER. — . Brown bouillon with rice pudding. — Lobster ragout 
in shells. — Fried duck with cranberries and baked cauliflower. 
— Mixed salad. — Strawberry cream with almond heaps. 



NOVEMBER. — Green corn soup. — Duck ragout. — • Lamb cutlet 

with kohlrabi. — Potato pudding. — Mixed jam or marmalade. 

— Apple strudel. 

DECEJiBER. — Fish soup. - — ■ Roasted chestnuts with sliced goose 

liver. — Turkey with jam and potatoes. — Mixed salad. — 

Plum pudding with vanilla sauce. 



—368— 
A FINE SUPPER OR BREAKFAST. 



A Menu for each Season. 



JANUARY to MARCH. — Bouillon with cheese wafers. — Lobster 
with remoulade sauce. — Caviar on toast. — Mutton chops 
with chestnut puree. — Truffle salad. — Spring chicken with 
jam. — ' Tutti-Frutti ice. 



APRIIj to JUNE. — Crab soup. ■ — Asparagus and cutlets. — Pigeons 
and salad. — Strawberry cream and ca"ke. 



JULY to SEPTEMBER. — Bouillon in cups with bread sticks. — 
Fish with Bearnaise dressing. — Small potato balls. — Sweet- 
bread ragout with peas. — Venison. — Tomato salad. — Fine 
wine ice cream. 

OCTOBER to DECEMBER. — Grape fruit. — Oysters. — Fillets of 
sole with mushroom sauce. — Turkey with apple sauce. — 
Mixed salad. — Chocolate ice. 



FINE DINNER. 



A Menn for Each Season. 



JANUARY to MARCH. — Asparagus soup, meat patties. — Venison 
with jam. — Trout with horse radish and mustard butter. — 
Pineapple ice. — Young roast goose with small potato balls. — 
Partridge with cucumber and tomato salad. — Asparagus with 
creamed butter. — Strawberry cream with almond heaps. — 
Crackers. ■ — Butter. ■ — Various kinds of cheese. — Coffee. 



APRIL to JUNE. — Vegetable soup. — Timbale of crabs with herb 
sauce. — Lamb roast with champignons. — Whitefish with 
beaten egg sauce. — Chicken souffle with puff-paste scallops. — 
Venison with vegetable salad. — Asparagus with tongue. — 
Strawberries and vanilla ice cream. — Coffee. — Fruit. 



JULY to SEPTEMBER. — Crawfish soup. — Chicken patties with 
lobster, mayonnaise dressing. — Saddle of ,veal garnished with 
beef tongue and riced, potatoes. — Broiled spring chicken with 
Bearnaise dressing. — Champignons and stuffed tomatoes. — 
Salmon with cucumber salad and browned butter. — Baked 
sweetbreads with toast. — Snipe with jam. — Truffle and arti- 
choke salad. — Cold rice pudding with peaches and whipped 
cream. — ■ Coffee. 

OCTOBER to DECEMBER. — Turtle soup. — Caviar pie. — 
Venison with artichokes, garnished with gooseliver and Ma- 
deira sauce. — Fine fish with small potato balls. — Brown 
champignons. — Crawfish. — Turkey with cranberries, salad. 
— Chocolate ice with cake. 



—369— 

A LARGE BUFFET. 

For 30 Persons. 

1 salmon with lobsters and may- 1 goose liver pie garnished with 

onnaise dressing aspic 

1 venison roast Fine fish salad 

1 roast beef Lobster salad 

1 saddle of veal or veal roast 2 dishes of vegetables, (aspara- 

1 ham gus, peas, morels with crab- 

1 chicken, asparagus and craw- tails 

fish jelly with herb sauce 12 deviled eggs 

2 chicken pies with champig- 6 qts. assorted ices 

nons 2 wine jellies with fruit 

1 macaroni pudding with toma- 4 portions of cake 
to sauce 



EVERY DAY DINNER. 



No. 1. — Soup with mushrooms. — ■ Roast stuffed chicken. — Po- 
tatoes. — Apple sauce. — Orange cream. 



No. 3. — Bread soup. — Boiled fish with beaten egg gravy. — Small 
potato balls. — Head lettuce. — Pilled pancakes. 



No. 3. — Bouillon with rice. — Veal roast, sauerkraut. — Mashed 
potatoes. — Chocolate pudding with vanilla sauce. 



No. 4. — Pea soup. — Hamburg steak, spinage. — Stuffed pota- 
toes. — Lemon souffle. 



No. 5. • — Marrow dumpling soup. — Lamb crown roast with cauli- 
flower. — Potatoes. — Apple strudel. 



No. 6. — Tomato soup. — Meat pie with rice. — Tomato salad. 
Omelet. 



No. 7. — Pea soup. — Roast beef. — Stuffed tomatoes. — Fried 
potatoes. — Vanilla ice cream. 



No. 8. — ' Wine soup. ■ — ■ Fish in red wine sauce, potatoes. — Maca- 
roni with tomato sauce. • — Apple sauce with cake. 



No. 9. — Soup with bread sticks. — Stuffed duck. — Red cabbage. 
— Potato pudding. — Strawberry ice cream. 



—370— 

No. 10. — Asparagus soup. — Chicken pie with cold slaw. — Po- 
tatoes. — Apple strudel. 



No. 11. — ■ Vegetable soup. — Veal chops. — Kohlrabi. — Mashed 
potatoes. — Stuffed apples with rice pudding. 



No. IS. — Oyster soup. — Goose stuffed with chestnuts. — Cran- 
berries. — Potatoes. — Vanilla ice cream with hot chocolate 
sauce. 



No. 13. — Potato soup. — Mock rabbit. — Mashed potatoes. 
Green beans. — ■ Wine jelly. 



No. 14. — Blueberry soup. — Chicken fricassee with rice and po- 
tatoes. — Potato pancakes with apple sauce. 



No. 15. — Red wine soup. — Stuffed lamb crown roast. — Turnips. 
— Mashed potatoes. — Rice pudding with cherry syrup. 



No. 16. — Cauliflower soup. — Fried sausage. — Beets. — Po- 
tatoes. — Bread pudding with cream. 



No. 17. - — Lentil soup with Wieners. — Fried fish. — Head lettuce. 
— Fried potatoes. — Filled omelet. 



No. 18. — Bouillon with farina dumplings. — Stuffed veal breast. — 
Asparagus. — Stuffed potatoes. — Coffee with thousand puff 
tart. 



No. 19. — Bean soup. — Stuffed cabbage head. — Potatoes with 
cracker sauce. — Appje fritters. 



No. 20. — • Celery soup. — Sour roast. — ■ Potato dumplings. — 
Noodles. — Fruit salad with whipped cream. 



— 371 — 

CHAPTER 25. 
Cookery for Invalids, 



While the directions found throughout this book will be 
generally adequate for the preparation of food for invalids or 
convalescents, always carefully regulating and limiting the 
quantities of fats, spices, condiments, etc., used, it is never- 
theless deemed best to add a separate chapter especially de- 
voted to the enumeration of recipes and directions intended 
for the sickroom. A majority of the sick and invalids, are 
usually nervous and irritable, and as it is quite essential that 
tlhey receive the food prepared for them with all possible readi- 
ness and pleasure, it becomes necessary that the manner of 
presenting the meals to them should obtain great attention; 
even this detail, if properly carried out, being of assistance to 
the physician in successfully handling the case. 

Invalids should seldom be consulted regarding their 
wishes as to food ; as a usual tihing they are quite unable to 
make a decision, or at the moment they lack the desire to de- 
termine upon anything they would like to eat, and yet it is 
often observable that properly prepared and appetizingly 
served dishes are eagerly received by them. 

All the ingredients used in the preparation of dishes for 
invalids must be faultlessly good. Meats, fish, poultry, vege- 
tables and fruits must be absolutely freslh and untainted. The 
natural fats of fleshfoods should not be used, and the very best 
butter only must be taken when preparing food for invalids. 

Water for cold beverages must always be boiled and arti- 
ficially cooled. Meals should never be prepared in the sick- 
room, because the air becomes vitiated, the noise and activity 
inseparable from the work itself is annoying to the patient, 
and is apt to diminish -whatever appetite he may happen to 
have. Never bring more victuals into the sickroom than are 
necessary to supply present needs, because the air in the room 
and the exhalations from the patient act deleteriously upon 
the food, and may prove dangerous. All cooking utensils, 
particularly in cases of contagious and severe illness, should 
be used for that patient only ; the most scrupulous cleanliness 
must, it is perhaps needless to say, always be observed. The 
quality of many dishes is impaired when they are cooked in 
utensils too large for the purpose. Sick people are usually 



— 372 — 

very sensitive in their taste, and the slightest taint in an ar- 
ticle of food prepared for them' will at once destroy all desire 
for it. The utensils should, as much as possible, consist of 
small earthenware and enameled pots, kettles, pans, spiders, 
etc. ; a small bouillon pot with tightly-fitting cover should al- 
so be provided. The dishes in which the food is served should be 
adapted to the small portions given, because neatness in every- 
thing connected with giving invalids their sustenance is cer- 
tain to sharpen the appetite ; furthermore, the victuals are like- 
ly to cool too rapidly when contained in large receptacles. For 
invalids who can only take their food and beverages slowly, 
vessels provided with hot water heaters are the best. 



No. 1— STRONG BEEF TEA. 
Ingredients for 1 pint. 
% lb. lean beef 1 old pigeon 1 tsp. of salt 

% lb. breast of veal 1 qt. of water Small piece of carrot 

Preparation: Cut the beef and veal into small pieces, 
clean the pigeon carefully, remove the breast and cut up into 
small pieces, crush drumsticks and bones, put everything into 
a very clean kettle, pour over the required quantity of cold 
water and set aside for one hour ; then add salt and carrot, and 
cook slowly for 3 hours, rub through a very fine sieve, take 
off the fat and pour the soup carefully from the settlings. This 
bouillon can be served in cups, or be used in any kind of soup, 
as desired. 

No. 2— WEAK VEAL BOUILLON. 

Ingredients for 1 pint. 
% lb. breast of veal 1 qt. of water 1 small carrot 1 tsp. of salt 
Preparation: Wash the veal, cut into very small pieces, 
put it into the cold water and boil very slowly for 2 hours 
with the carrot and 1 teaspoonful of salt, then pass through 
a sieve and use in soups as desired. 



No. 3— BEEF BOUILLON. 
Ingredients for 1 pint. 
1 % lbs. of lean beef 1 qt. of water 1 tsp. of salt Vi small carrot 
Preparation: Cut the beef into dice, put them into the re- 
quired quantity of cold water, add carrot and salt and boil in 
a small covered kettle or double boiler for 3 Ihours; pour 
through a sieve and remove all of the fat. This bouillon may 
be mixed with the yolk of 1 egg and served in cups. 



— 373 — 

No. 4— BEEF TEA. 
Ingredients for % cup. 
% lb. fresh beef steak % pt. boiled water, cold 1/10 tsp. of salt 
Preparation: Chop the meat, put4nto a fruit jar together 
with the water and salt, close top lightly, put in a kettle with 
water, cover and boil very slowly for 2 'hours, then pour the 
tea through a fine sieve. Administer a teaspoonful at a time. 
Beef tea must be freshly prepared every day. 

No. 5— BEEF TEA WITH COGNAC. 

Ingredients and preparation same as in No. 4. Add 1 
tablespoonful of cognac to the beef tea ; the beverage must be 

served cold. 

No. 6— POULTRY BOUILLON. 
Ingredients for 1 quart. 
1 chicken, either young or old 
2 qts. of water 1 tsp. of salt A. piece of carrot 

Preparation: Clean chicken carefully, remove breast and 
cut it into small pieces. Chop drumsticks and bones, put into 
the water together with carrot and salt, boil very slowly for 
2 hours and strain through a fine sieve. The pieces of the 
breast are added to the bouillon at the last hour of the boiling, 
and the cooking finished over a very slow fire. 
The bouillon is served with the meat in it. 



No. 7— PIGEON OR PARTRIDGE BOUILLON. 

Prepare same as in No. 6. 

No. 8— LAMB BOUILLON. 

Ingredients for 1 pint. 
2 qts. of water 1 lb. of lamb's trotters 1 tsp. of salt 

Vz Ih. of lean mutton 
Preparation: The lamb's trotters are carefully cleaned, 
and then chopped into small pieces ; the meat is cut up very 
fine, salt added and boiled slowly in a small, tightly covered 
kettle for 3i^ hours. Strain through a fine sieve and take off 
the fat carefully. This bouillon can be used for rice or barley 

soups. 

No. 9— BOUILLON OF GAME. 
Ingredients for 1 pint. 
1 % lbs. of fresh game % lb. of bones 1 small fresh tomato 

1 tsp. of salt 1 tsp. of finely chopped celery 1 % qts. of water 

Preparation: The meat is cut into small pieces and the 
bones crushed, put into a small, tigihtly covered kettle with 
the tomato, celery, salt and water and boiled very slowly for 

2 hours ; it may also be cooked for 3 hours in a slow oven. 



— 374 — 

No. 10— NOODLE OR GRITS SOUP MADE OF CLEAR 

BOUILLON. 

Ingredients for 1 pint. 
Bouillon made as in No. 3. 1 pt. of bouillon 

% cup of finely, cut noodles 3 tbsps. of grits 

Preparation: Slowly boil the noodles or the grits in the 
hot bouillon for 15 minutes. Before adding the grits to the 
bouillon, rinse same in cold water, stir it in 4 tablespoonfuls 
of the bouillon, then put it into the rest of the bouillon and 
boil. 

No. 11— SAGO SOUP WITH GAME BOUILLON. 

Ingredients for 1 pint. 

Game bouillon as in No. 9 1 — 3 tbsps. of sherry 

Vi cupful of French sago 

Preparation: Mix the sherry witlh the sago, add the hot 
bouillon and boil for 13 minutes. 



No. 12— ROLL SOUP WITH BOUILLON. 

Ingredients for 1 pint. 
Bouillon as in No. 1,. 2,' 3 or 6 1 tsp. of butter 
% cup of grated wheat flour Yolk of 1 egg 

rolls 1 tsp. of cream 

Preparation: Rolls must be stale, grate them, heat with 
the butter on the stove, but do not get them yellow or brown 
in color, then add the bouillon and boil slowly for 30 minutes. 
Stir yolk of egg and the cream into the soup and rub through 
a sieve. 

No. 13— BARLEY GRUEL. 

Ingredients for 1 pint. 
% cup of barley Bouillon as in No. 1, 2, 3, 6 or 8 % pt. of water 

Preparation: Rinse the barley with 1 cupful of boiling 
water, put over the fire in % pint of wajier and boil slowly for 
1^ hours ; then add the bouillon, and boil slowly for another 
hour, rub through a sieve, heat again and serve. 

Remarks: The yolk of an egg may be stirred into this 
soup. 

No. 14— RICE GRUEL. 

Bouillon according to No. 1, 2, % pt. of water 
3, 6 or 8 % cupful of rice 

Preparation: Same as No. 13, Barley Gruel. 



— 375 — 

No. 15— BARLiEY SOUP WITH SWEETBREADS AND 

ASPARAGUS. 

Ingredients for 1 pint. 
Yolk of an egg 4 tbsps. of sweetbreads cut in 

Bouillon according to No. 1, 2, small pieces 

3 or 6 1 tbsp. of flour 

% cup of rice % cup of asparagus cut in small 

1 tsp. of butter pieces 

1% pts. of water 

Preparation : Put the rice on the stove with 1 cup of cold 
water, heat it and strain and add the required quantity of 
water. Boil slowly for 1 hour, add bouillon, then boil for an- 
other y^, hour. During this time, boil the asparagus in a small 
quantity of salt water until tender ; the sweetbreads should 
also simmer in salt water for about 5 minutes. Strain the soup, 
add the parsley and sweetbreads, stir the yolk of an egg with 
some asparagus liquor until smooth, heat the soup again and 
stir into it the yolk of the egg. 

No. 1ft— PLAIN BARLEY GRUEL. 

Ingredients for 1 pint. 
Preparation and ingredients same as in No. 15, but instead 
of rice use pearl barley. 

No. 17— CHICKEN PUREE SOUP. 
Ingredients for 1 pint. 
Chicken bouillon according to' % lb. of stewed breast of chicken 
No. 6 1 tsp. of cream 

% cup of roll crumbs 

Preparation: Boil the roll crumbs in the bouillon for 10 
minutes; chop the breast of chicken very fine, rub through a 
sieve and add 1/4 cup of soup into which 1 tablespoonful of 
cream has been stirred, stir into the soup and let it come to a 

boil ; serve immediately. 

No. 18— VEAL PUREE SOUP. 
Ingredients for 1 pint. 

Ingredients and preparation the same as in No. 17, but in- 
stead of the meat of a chicken and chicken bouillon take veal, 
and bouillon according to No. 1 or 2. 

No. 19— PIGEON OR PARTRIDGE PUREE SOUP. 

Ingredients and preparation the same as in No. 17, but in- 
stead of the meat of a chicken and chicken bouillon, take 
pigeon or partridge puree and bouillon ; cook as explained in 
No. 6. 



— 376 — 

No. 20— PLAIN SOUP FOR INVALIDS. 

Ingredients for 1 plateful. 
% lb. of potatoes, scant 1 pt. of water 

% tsp. of salt 1 tsp. of butter Yolk of 1 egg 

Preparation: Peel and 'wash potatoes and cut them into 
small pieces, boil until done, rub through a fine sieve, add salt, 
butter and the yolk of an egg, heat the soup quickly, stirring 
vigorously all the time and serve at once. 

No. 21— THIN RICE SOUP. 

Ingredients for 1 plateful. 
1/6 cupful of rice 1 pt. of water 1 pinch of salt 

2 tbsps. of sugar 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

Preparation: Put the rice over tihe fire in cold water, 
when tIhe water is hot pour it off, then boil the rice in 1 pint 
of water until it is well done and add salt, sugar and lemon 
juice. 

No. 22— PEARL BARLEY SOUP. 

Ingredients for 1 plateful. 
% cupful of pearl barley % tsp. extract of beef 

1 tsp. of butter 1 pint of water 1 pinch of salt 

Preparation according to Chapter 1, No. 32, Soups. 

No. 23— RYEBREAD SOUP. 

Ingredients for 1 plateful. 
% cupful of grated rye bread % pt. of water 

% pt. of boiling milk 2 tbsps. of sugar 1 pinch of salt 

Yolk of an egg 2 tbsps. of cream 

Preparation : Heat the bread crumbs in a clean spider un- 
til crisp, pour over them the required quantity of water, and 
let it stand to one side of the hot stove for 1 hour, but do not 
boil ; add the hot milk, salt, sugar and the yolk of the egg and 
pass the soup through a sieve. 

No. 24— FRUIT SOUP. 
Blueberry, Cherry, Raspberry or Strawberry Soups. 
Ingredients for 1 pint. 
% lb. of fruit 1% pts. of water 1/3 cupful of sugar 

Vz tbsp. of lemon juice 1 tbsp. of corn starch 

Preparation: Prepare and wash the fruit thoroughly and 
crush it with a potato masher, add the water and boil the soup 
for half an hour, put in sugar, lemon juice and corn stardh 
stirred up with a tablespoonful of water, then boil the soup 
until it is quite smooth. 



— 377 — 
No.25— RED WINE SOUP. 

Preparation is designated in Chapter 1, No. 29, Soups; 
take only % of the quantities given. 



No. 26— RYEFLOUR SOUP AND MILK SOUP. 

Are described in Chapter 1, Nos. 53 and 54. 



No. 27— MiEAT PUREE FOR THE SERIOUSLY ILL. 

No. 1. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
% lb. of veal or beef roast, 2 yolks of eggs 

medium well done 1 pinch of salt, if necessary 

5 tbsps. of stock from the roast 

Preparation: Chop the meat very finely, pass througlh a 

sieve on a porcelain dish, stir with the yolks of eggs and the 

stock, from which all fat has been removed, then put in a 

double boiler, and boil until quite thick, stirring occasionally. 



No. 28— PUREE OF GAME ROAST. 

For a Seriously 111 Patient. 
Quantity for 1 Person. 
1 tbsp. of red wine 3 tbsps. of bouillon or stock 

% lb. game roast Yolk of an egg 

1 tbsp. of Madeira 

Preparation: Chop tihe meat very fine, rub through a 
sieve, and heat in a small porcelain dish with the Madeira, 
red wine, meat stock and yolk of egg in a double boiler, stir- 
ring until it thickens. 



No. 29— MINCED BEEF, VEAL OR LAMB STEAK. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
1/3 lb. of good meat, free from Vz tsp. of salt 
bones or fat 1 tbsp. of butter 

Yolk of an egg 

For the Gravy. 

% tsp. of extract of meat 1 drop of extract of lemon 

Yolk of an egg % pt. of bouillon or water 1 tsp. of cream 

Preparation : Chop the meat very finely and rub it through 
a fine sieve, stir into it the yolk of an egg and the salt, form 
into a steak about an inch tlhick, which is fried with brown 
butter in a small pan for about 5 minutes, turning frequently, 
then serve on a hot plate. Yolk of an egg, extract of meat, 
lemon juice, cream and bouillon are stirred in a double boiler, 
boiled until thick and this gravy poured over the steak. 



— 378-— 
No. 30— FRIED CALF'S BRAIN. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
% of a calf's brain Yolk of an egg 1 % tbsps. of milk 

1 tbsp. of flour White of 1 egg 1 pinch of salt 1 tbsp. of sugar 

Preparation: Rinse the calf's brain and then pour hot 
water over it; drain off the water and remove all veins or 
blood vessels, then cut up the brain into small pieces. Stir 
together yolk of egg, milk, flour and salt, add the brain and 
the beaten white of egg. This mixture is fried in the butter 
in two pancakes, and served on a hot dish with a little spinage. 



No. 31— CALF'S TONGUE. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
1 call's tongue 1 tbsp. of Madeira, If permitted 

1 % pts. of water by physician 

% tsp. of extract of meat 1 tsp. of flour 

% tsp. of lemon juice 

Preparation: Clean the tongue and boil slowly in the 
water for 1%, hours until tender, then remove the skin and 
all fat. After tihis, stew the tongue, gradually adding the 
bouillon which should be boiled down by this tim« to % of a 
pint, also add the lemon juice, extract of beef and flour, which 
has been stirred with 2 tablespoonfuls of cold bouillon and the 
Madeira, then stew the tongue for half an hour. It must be 
very tender when given to the invalid. Tongue and gravy 
should be served together. 



No. 32— BREAST OF CHICKEN WITH WHITE GRAVY. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 

1 young chicken, weighing 1 qt. of bouillon 

about 1 % lbs. 1 tsp. of salt 

For the Gravy. 

1 tbsp. of butter Yolks of 2 eggs 1 pinch of salt 

1 tbsp. of white wine or % tbsp. of lemon juice 

Preparation: Qean the chicken carefully and stew slow- 
ly in a small kettle for a little while, then pour enough 'hot 
water over it to just cover ; add a little salt, put cover on tight- 
ly and cook slowly for % hour. Yolk of egg, white vv^ine or 
lemon juice, and i/^ cup of chicken bouillon are stirred in 
double boiler until thick. The chicken is taken out and its 
breast cut away, skin removed and then served on a hot plate 
vvith the hot gravy poured over it. If permitted by the phy- 
sician, serve a few asparagus tips with it. 



— 379 — 
No. 33— BREAST OF PIGEX>N WITH WHITE GRAVY. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
Ingredients and preparation same as for No. 32, but in- 
stead of a chicken take a young pigeon. 



No. 34^BREAST OF PARTRIDGE WITH MADEIRA 

SAUCE. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
Preparation same as in No. 32; use 2 tablespoonfuls of 
Madeira and 1/4 teaspoonful of meat extract for the gravy. 



No. 35— RAW HAM WITH EGG. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
% lb. of raw ham Yolks of 2 eggs 1 tsp. of butter 
Preparation : Rub the lean ham through a sieve, mix with 
butter and the yolks of eggs, and then heat in a double boiler, 
stirring constantly. Serve with wlheat bread toast. 



No. 36— FISH FOR INVALIDS. 

Boiled fish for 1 Person. 
% lb. of fish 
Preparation is given in Chapter 8, No. 8. However, skin 
and bones are carefully removed, and a trifle of tgg or butter 
sauce is served with it. 

No. 37— FISH CUTLET. 
Quantity for 1 Person. 
% lb. of fish 1 tsp. of salt 

% of a roll % tsp. of finely chopped parsley 

1 tbsp. of butter 1 tsp. of lemon juice 

Yolks of 2 eggs % cupful of roll crumbs 

Preparation: Chop up the fish, remove skin and bones, 
mix well with yolks of eggs, salt and soaked % roll. Form 2 
cutlets, dredge with crumbs and bake in the butter slowly for 
8 minutes. Add some parsley and lemon juice to the butter. 



No. 38— VEGETABLES FOR INVALIDS. 

Cauliflower, scorzonera, spinage, purees of young carrots, 
artichokes, green peas, and macaroni may also be served to 
invalids. T^ese vegetables are listed in Chapter 12 ; prepare 
tlhem as there described, but for 1 person take only one-sixth 
the quantity of ingredients specified in those recipes. 



— 380 — 

Sweet Dishes for Invalids, 



No. 39— RICE IN MILK. 
Quantity for 1 Person. 
% cupful of good rice 1 pinch of salt 

% pt. of milk 1 tbsp. of sugar 

Preparation: Heat the rice twice in cold water, pour off 
the water, add salt' and milk and boil in a double boiler until 
very tender. Sprinkle the sugar over the rice when serving;. 

Remarks: If desired, the yolk of an egg can be stirred 
into this dish. 

No. 40— MILK JELLY. 
Quantity for 1 Person. 
% pt. of thin cream 2 % layers or 1 tsp. of gelatine 

% cupful of sugar dissolved in 5 tbsps. of 

ii grated lemon rind water 

% pt. of Madeira 1 tsp. of lemon juice 

Preparation: The cream, sugar and lemon juice are 
boiled together, then add the dissolved gelatine and let it cool. 
Add the wine and the lemon juice, fill into glasses and let it 
get stiff. V 

No. 41— CHOCOLATE CREAM WITH RED WINE. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
% lb. of chocolate 3 layers or 1 tsp. of white 

1/5 pt. of red wine gelatine 

1/5 cupful of sugar Whites of 2 eggs 

% cupful of water % tsp. of vanil|a 

Preparation: Chocolate and sugar are dissolved in the 
red wine, and the gelatine in the % cupful of water ; pass the 
chocolate and gelatine through a sieve, and mix. Beat the 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and quickly add to the first 
mixture, spread a drop of good oil over the bottom of a mold, 
sprinkle with a teaspoonful of sugar, fill in the cream, and 
when stiff, turn it out. 

No. 42— RHUBARB JELLY. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
% lb. of rhubarb % pt. of water % lb. of sugar 

2 layers or 1 tsp. of gelatine % pt. of cream 

Preparation: Rinse the rhubarb carefully and cut it into 
small pieces, then boil in the water with the sugar until tender, 
and rub through a sieve. Wlhen this is cool, dissolve the gela- 
tine in it, mix in the cream, and then heat the mixture, stir- 
ring constantly. Oil the mold with a drop of oil and sprinkle 
it with a teaspoonful of sugar, fill in the jelly and after it 
stiffens, turn it out. 



^381 — 

No. 43— RICE WITH RED WINE. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 

% cupful of rice % pt. of red wine 1 small stick of cinnamon 

M, cupful of sugar 1 pinch of salt 

Preparation : Bring the rice to boil in 1 cupful of water, 
drain, then take another cupful of water and boil tihe rice until 
it is about half done ; add the wine, cinnamon, salt and sugar 
and boil the rice until quite tender, shaking frequently. Rinse 
a mold with a little wine, sprinkle with sugar, fill in the rice 
and turn it out when cold. Serve with a little cream as a 

sauce. 

No. 44— BAKED APPLES. 
Quantity for 1 Person. 
2 medium sized sweet-sour apples 2 tbsps. of sugar 
4 tbsps. of water 

Preparation: Take the cores out of the apples very care- 
fully, leaving the bottom intact to hold the filling, which is 
made of the sugar and water ; bake the apples in the oven for 

y^ hour. 

No. 45— EGG FOAM. 
Quantity for 1 Person. 
"White of an egg 1 tbsp. of cream 

1 tbsp. of California brandy 1% tsps. of sugar 

Preparation: Beat the white of an egg to a stiflf foam, 
gradually beat in the cream, mix in the brandy and sugar and 
serve to the patient, a spoonful at a time. 

No. 46— BEATEN EGG. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
1 fresh egg 1 pinch of salt 

Preparation : Beat the ^^^ with the salt in a tumbler un- 
til the glass is half full of foam. The egg should be beaten 
in a well ventilated room only, because the air in the room in- 
fluences the nourishment served to the invalid. 



No. 47— BEATEN YOLK OF EGG. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
Yolk of an egg 1 tsp. of powdered sugar 

Preparation: With a teaspoon beat the yolk of egg and 
the sugar in a tumbler for about 20 minutes and pour it into 
a clean glass, or else wipe the first glass with a damp towel 
before using it to serve the egg. 

Retnarks : A tablespoonful of brandy or Malaga or orange 
juice may be mixed with the &^?„ if desired. 



— 382 — 

No. 48— RED WINE FOAM. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
% Pt. ol red wine % cupful of sugar 

2 eggs 1 tbsp. of raspberry jelly 

Preparation: Beat all ingredients to a froth over the fire 
with an egg beater; serve in a tumbler. 



No. 49— ICE CREAM. 

Ices, for instance vanilla or chocolate ice cream can often 
be given to invalids without harm. Their preparation is given 
in Chapter 17. 

No. 50— FIG SAUCE. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
% lb. of figs % -wineglassful of Malaga 

% pt. of water 1 tbsp. of sugar 

Preparation: Rinse the figs and cut them into small 
pieces, add the water, and set them aside for 13 hours. At the 
expiration of this time boil until very tender, add the other in- 
gredients, rub through a sieve ; to those not seriously ill it 
can be served without straining. 



No. 51— ZWIEBACK (SWEET TOAST). 

Ingredients. 
% lb. of flour 1 pinch of salt 

ii lb. of butter 2 cents yeast 

% lb. of sugar % pt. of milk and water 

2 eggs 

Preparation: Take 2 parts of water and 1 part of milk to 
make % pint, heat until lukewarm and dissolve the yeast in 
it; the mixture is stirred to ^ smooth batter with part of the 
flour, then let it rise in a warm- place for about an hour. But- 
ter, sugar, eggs, salt and the remainder of the flour are mixed 
well and added to the yeast mixture. Wrap the dough in a 
cloth sprinkled with flour and set aside in a warm place over 
night ; the next day the dough is put into oblong bread pans, 
anri baked in a medium hot oven. After the baking is done 
and cold, cut it into strips that are of a uniform thickness of 
%^ inch, place them into a buttered pan and brown them slight- 
ly. The Zwieback can be sprinkled with sugar before brown- 
ing. 



—383— 

No. 52— TEAS PREPARED FROM VARIOUS 

MEDICINAL HERBS. 

Camomile, Peppermint, Fennel, Elderberry Blossoms, 

Basswood Blossoms, Sage, etc. 

Quantity for 1 Person. 
1 tsp. of tea % pt. of water 

Preparation: Put the 'herbs into a porcelain jar, pour the 
boiling water over them and after 5 minutes strain through a 
sieve. 

No. 53— LUNG TEA WITH MALT SUGAR. 
Quantity for 1 Person. 

1 tbsp. of lung tea % pt. of boiling water 

1 tbsp. of malt sugar 

Preparation : Cover all of the ingredients, boil slowly for 
5 minutes and strain through a sieve. 



No. 54^IRON AND WINE. 

Ingredients. 
1 bottle of white wine 1/10 lb. of horse radish 
1/20 lb. of iron filings % tsp. of ginger 

Preparation : Mix the ingredients and set aside for about 
12 hours in a warm place, strain through a sieve and fill into 
a bottle. The iron filings must be rinsed in water before using. 
Take % wineglassful twice every day. As a remedy in 
anaemia or stomach troubles, this preparation will be found 
efficacious. 

No. 55— WHEY. 

Ingredients. 
1 qt. of milk 1% tsps. of lemon juice 2 tbsps. of sugar 

Preparation: Put the lemon juice into the milk, warm up 
slowly and when curdled, pour through a thin cloth and 
sweeten with sugar. 

No. 56— WARM MILK WITH COGNAC. 

Quantity for 1 tumblerful. 
% pt. of milk Yolk of an egg Rind of % of a lemon 

3 tbsps. of cognac 2 % tbsps. of sugar 

Preparation: Warm the milk with the lemon rind, pour 
througlh a sieve, add the yolk of an egg, sugar and cognac, put 
on the stove and beat to a froth ; serve while hot. 



— 384 — 

No. 57— YOLK OF EGG AND WINE. 

Ingredients. 
Yolk of an egg 2 tbsps. of Tokay wine 

3 tbsps. of sugar 1 tbsp. of cognac 

Preparation: Beat the yolk of an egg and the sugar to a 
foam, and mix with the Tokay wine and the cognac. 



No. 5»— CREAM OF ALMONDS AS A BEVERAGE. 

Ingredients. 
Vi lb. of sweet almonds 1/10 lb. of sugar 

1 qt. of water or milk 1 tbsp. of orange-flower water 

Preparation : Blanch the almonds and let them lie in cold 
water for 24 Ihours, then crush them very finely and mix with 
the water or milk; at the expiration of about 4 hours, pour 
through a fine cloth and mix with the sugar and the orange- " 
flower water; the latter can be omitted. 



No. 59— MILK LEMONADE. 

Ingredients. 
Vz pt. of water % lb. of sugar Vz qt. of milk 

3 tbsps. of lemon juice Vi pt. of white wine 

Preparation: Boil the water with the sugar, add milk, 
lemon juice and white wine, bring the lemonade to a boil, then 
pass througlh a fine sieve or cloth and set in a cold place. 

No. eO^TOAST AND WATER. 

Quantity for 1 Quart. 

Vi lb. of rye bread 1 qt. of water 1 tbsp. of lemon juice. 

3 tbsps. of sugar 1 pinch of salt 

Preparation: Hold the bread over the fire with a toast- 
ing fork until thoroughly toasted, cut into small cubes and 
pour boiling water over it. When cool, pour the water through 
a sieve and season with lemon juice and sugar. 

No. 61— BARLEY WATER. 

Ingredients. 
% lb. of barley 1 qt. of water 1 pinch of salt 

Preparation: Rinse the barley carefully, dry it thorough- 
ly with a cloth and put it in the oven to roast. Grind the 
barley after it is roasted, put it into the water and boil for 2 
hours until smooth and thick, using an earthenware; utensil for 
this purpose ; then rub through a fine sieve. Add a little sugar 
when serving. Can be mixed with any kind of wine or fruit 
juice. 



— 385— 

No. 62— APPLE DRINK. 

Quantity for 1 Quart. 
1% lbs. of sweet-sour apples 1 tbsp. of lemon juice 

% Qt. of water 1/3 n,. of sugar 

% pt. of white wine 
Preparation: Clean away the bud-end of the apples, cut 
the fruit into pieces and boil slowly in the % quart of water 
until quite soft ; after cooking, -ub through a thin cloth, add 
the wihite wine, sugar and lemon juice. Serve this beverage 
either hot or cold. — . 

No. 63— WATER WITH LEMON JUIOK 

Quantity for 1 Quart. 
1 qt. of water 1 cupful of sugar 

Rind of 1 lemon 4 tbsps. of sherry wine 

Preparation: Put the thinly pared rind of a lemon into 
boiling water and cover. When cold, pass through a sieve and 
mix into it the sugar and sherry. 



The following Recipe belongs under Chapter 8 and is 
an omission from page 151: 

No. 61— SALMON STEAK. 

Quantity for 6 Persons. 
2% — 3 lbs. of salmon in 6 slices 2 medium sized onions 
9 tsps. of lemon juice 1 bunch of parsley 

Pepper 12 tbsps. of fine oil Salt 

Preparation: The steaks should be cut in 6 neat medium 
sized pieces from the middle of the fish, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, pour 1% tablespoonfuls of lemon juice on each steak, 
the onion must be thinly sliced, and the slices put on the 
steaks, also the parsley ; then spread 1 tablespoonful of oil on 
each steak and let them lie for li/^ hours ; get cooking utensil 
very hot, then remove the onions and parsley from eadh slice 
of fish, spread another tablespoonful of oil on each and broil 
for 5 minutes. Serve on a hot platter and garnish with lemon 
slices and parsley. An olive sauce should be served with this 
dish. 



— 386 — 

CHAPTER 26. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



Treatment of Bums. — Meat Carving. — Carving of Poultry in the 
Kitchen. — Time Required for Broiling, or for Frying in a Pan 
with Butter, Fat or Both, Small Cuts of Meat. — Time Required 
for Meats on the Stove or in the Oven. — Roasting. — Roasting 
in the pan — Frying. — Broiling. — Roasting in the Oven. — 
Flour. — Yeast. — Table of Comparison. 



TREATMENT OF BURNS. 

Since it often happens that you burn yourself while cooking 
and baking, I shall give some methods of treating the wounds. 
There are various kinds of burns: 

1. When the surface is burned and a burning pain sets in, make 
cold water applications or compresses of raw grated potatoes qr 
lime water. 

2. When the bum causes swelling and blisters, put on cotton 
batting dipped in olive oil or the following mixture: equal parts of 
lime water and linseed oil and a little thymol. Shake it well be- 
fore using. 

3. When the heat has destroyed the lower skin and the epidermis 
rises in large blisters filled with a dark, bloody fluid. When the 
patient has fever and nervous symptoms. 

4. When the skin is completely destroyed and black, and the 
patient has fever. 

As a remedy for the last two cases use a mixture of carbolic 
acid and water and apply it with cotton batting. For healing use 
white vaseline, 20 grams; provence oil, 10 grams; glycerine, 50 
grams; mix well and spread on the wounds. 



MEAT CARVING. 

In order to carve meat properly it is necessary to know some- 
thing about the anatomy of meat, muscles, tendons and the skeleton. 

The simplest carving is on meat without bones, as beef steak 
and roast meat. Hold the meat with a large fork and cut across 
the grain or fiber in not too thin slices. The knife must be held a 
little on the slant. 

Pricandeau of veal or fillet both have all the fibers running 
in the same direction, so find out how they run and cut against the 
grain or across the fiber. 

For roast beef without bones the same must be Observed. Mark 
carefully that the vertebrae in the roast are chopped in two. Cut thin 
slices from the whole width of the roast, fat and all, and pour a 
little of the drippings over to make them juicy. 



— 387 — 

Leg of veal, mutton or game is carved on one side, first be- 
ginning at the chump end of loin. Perpendicular and rather thick 
slices are carved. 

The English way is to cut horizontal and very thin slices. 

Venison is carved in slanting slices to keep the larded pieces 
together. 

In carving ham you begin at the middle and cut around the 
bone. 

To carve a saddle of lamb or veal or other meat requires some 
skill. Hold the meat with the fork and make deep cuts along the 
backbone, then place the knife in from below and shove it forward. 
In this way you carve the meat from the ribs. Make slanting slices. 

It is advisable to carve poultry in the kitchen. 



CARVING OP POULTRY IN THE KITCHEN. 

When poultry is the main course you cut larger pieces than if 
it were serve'd in ragout, or with vegetables or as a side dish. 

Small birds, like quail or larks are served whole on toast and 
are not carved. 

Partridges, hazelhens, spring chickens and pigeons are cut in 
half when they are the main course. With a poultry shears they 
are cut lengthwise and the two halves placed together again and 
covered with a hot gravy. When they are a side dish, they are 
quartered and the backbones cut out. When they are fried, the 
breast is carved into 3 parts. 

Turkeys, ducks, geese, chickens, pheasants and woodcocks when 
fried are carved in the same way. The drumsticks or legs are cut 
around the hip joint and then the joint separated. The wings with 
some breastmeat are cut off. The meat on the breast is carved from 
eithet side of the breastbone and cut into desirable pieces. When 
serving, place them together again to make the breast appear whole. 
The legs are also cut into two or three pieces and replaced before 
serving. 

TIME REQUIRED FOR BROILING, OR FOR FRYING IN A PAN 
WITH BUTTER, FAT OR BOTH, SMALL CUTS OF MEAT. 

Time Turn 

minutes, times. 

1 loin beef steak, % lb 6 4 

1 chopped beef steak, % lb 6 5 

1 round steak, % inch slices 2 2 

1 round steak, 1 inch slices 7 6 

1 veal steak from leg, 1 lb. in % inch slices 12 6 

1 Vienna schnitzel, % lb., breaded 6 2 

1 breaded veal cutlet, i/4 lb 6 2 

1 lamb chop, 1/5 lb 2 2 

1 breaded pork chop, % lb 8 4 

1 cutlet from leg of venison, % lb 4 4 

1 breaded oyster 1 1 

1 meat ball, % lb., 1 inch thick 6 4 



— 388 — 

TIME REQUIRED FOR MEATS ON THE STOVE OR IN THE OVEN. 

Pounds. Hours. 

Beef rib roast 4 1% 

Roast beef, rolled 4 1% 

Pot roast 5 2% 

Sour roast (Sauerbraten) 5 2Vz — 3 

Leg of veal 5 2 

Filled breast of veal 4 IVz — 2 

Saddle of veal 4 1 

Leg of lamb 3% 1% 

Saddle of lamb 4 1 

Young chicken 2 % 

Young cbicken 3 — 4 % 

Older chicken 4 1% 

Young turkey 10 2 

Older turkey 10 3 

Young capon 5% 1% 

Older capon 5%, 2 

Ham 10 4 

Roast pork 5 3 

Pork tenderloin .- 1 2/3 

1 squab filled' 1 

1 duck 5 2 

1 fat goose filled 10 2 % — 2 Vz 

1 young goose 8 1% 



ROASTING. 



Roasting means the rapid confining of the meat's juices by 
coagulating the albumen in the surface tissues, the slow changing of 
the outer layers into a brown palatable crust, dissolving of the natu- 
ral fats of the meat, changing the albumen gradually to a semi-fiuid 
form and loosening and breaking up the fibers by steam generated 
in the mass of the meat. Roasting may be done on a stove in a 
pan, or over the open fire on a spit, or in an oven. 



ROASTING IN THE PAN — ^FRYING. 

Heat a clean pan, put in the fat of the meat or butter and heat 
it; the fat must be steaming and the butter have a light brown 
color before the meat is put into the pan. Fat and butter mixed 
may also be used. 

Beef steak, veal, mutton or pork chops, liver, pork or veal 
steak, etc., are cut into uniformly thick slices; the time for frying 
is estimated according to the average weight of the pieces. Do not 
salt too soon as this will draw out the juice. Breading must be 
done immediately before frying, otherwise the juices of the meat 
will be drawn out and the breading will not hold. 

Do not leave meat on boards, as the juices will be absorbed by 
the wood; it is better to put meat on china. The pi.eces of meat, 
the largest first are placed In the hot fat with a cake turner, not 



— 389— 

with a fork, and take note of the time when beginning. Never put 
so much meat into the pan at one time as to cool the fat and stop 
its sizzling. After every three pieces stop long enough to give the 
fat a chance to heat up. 

When several pieces, of meat are in the p'an, they must be 
turned in the order in which they were put in, baste frequently with 
the fat or butter in the pan and turn often. 

When done, the meat must be well browned but not hard on 
the outside, and be reddish and tender inside. Stabbing the meat 
with a fork is not advisable for two reasons. In the first place 
the juice will run out and the meat will be dry, and then the meat 
will begin to stew in the juice ana ttc tomporature of the fat will 
be reduced, the meat will not turn brown; breaded nreat-it«)«£Ljih£ 
breading or this will be soft. Washed meat must be well dried wlth^ 
a clean cloth before breading. When fried meat is pale and color- 
less. It has been either fried in too low a temperature or was stabbed 
with a fork or was not well dried before frying. 



BROILING. 



Flat pieces of meat only are suitable for broiling, the fire must 
be a fairly hot one, all coals aglowing. The broiler is greased with 
a bit of bacon or suet and heated over the fire. Lay on the pounded 
slices of meat and as soon as. the same begins to blister, turn with 
a cake turner. The meat must be rich and not too lean. The meat 
is seasoned after broiling and hot butter may be poured over it be- 
fore serving. 



ROASTING IN THE OVEN. 

In Germany roasts made in the oven are preferred on account 
of the desired gravies. 

Roast beef, fillet of beef, mutton, game and small birds require 
comparatively little time for roasting, but a uniformly hot oven. 

Veal, lamb, turkey and goose roasts require a longer time but 
only a moderate heat. For roasting use only meats from full grown, 
but not old, animals. The cellular walls of the muscle tissues must 
be still tender and fill'ed with juice. In older animals the tissues 
become harder and less juicy and such meat is better suited for 
stewing than for roasting. Meats for roasting should be 2 to 3 days 
old and ought to be slightly pounded. 



FLOUR. 



Good nutritive flour has a yellowish tinge on account of the 
nutritive gluten contained therein; flour must not be gray, for thio 
color denotes impurities. The whiter the flour the larger is the 
proportion of starch and smaller the proportion of albuminous sub- 
stances. To test flour, put some of it on a bluish white sheet of 
paper, where color, finish and grain can be distinguished. 



— 390 — 

The finest brands of flour have less albumen than others, be- 
cause this is distributed near the outer shell, which is removed. 
Good flour possesses a certain degree of cohesiveness which can be 
observed when pressing some of it in the hand; poor flour acts like 
dust. 

Flour made of grain not thoroughly seasoned is not well 
adapted for gravies and baking. Adulterations and mixtures of 
good and poor flour are easily detected in cooking and baking as the 
gravies are thinner and cakes are liable to fall. 

To keep large quantities of flour, the same must be placed high 
in a covered wooden box in an airy placp, so tnat the moisture ol 
the floor and air-^wiii^rii is aeieterious, may not affect it. Flour must 

amea aifaTsifted often. 



YEAST. 

Compressed yeast is the best to use; it must be fresh and to 
obtain the best results in baking, the same must have an odor of 
fine brandy or fruit and not smell cheesy or sour. Yeast must have 
a yellowish white color, must be moist and bl-eak up in lumps, not 
like dust. To retain activity, yeast must not be subjected to heat 
or great cold. 

To obtain the best results in baking, the yeast needs careful at- 
tention, drafts must be avoided and the baking room must be warm. 



r 



NOTICE. 

Wherever the use of wine in recipes is 
prescribed and cannot be obtained, take 
Ginger Ale. 



— 391- 



Weights and Measures Most Commonly 
Used in the Art of Cooking. 

EUROPE AND THE UNITED STATES. 



COPYRIGHT 1922. BY C N. CASPAR CO . MILWAUKEE. WIS. 



Note — The Metric System is used m all ctvUkTtyd-ccnmv^ 
tries except the United States and Great Britain and has 
also in the Art of Cooking great advantages compared with 
the out-of-date Weights and Measures used in the United 
States. , 

For practical purposes, consider one kilogram 2 Pounds 
U. S. and one liter = Quart U. S. 

The following conversion tables present a practical 
selection of Weights and Measures most commonly used 
in Europe and the United States. 

1 Kilogram (kg.) . . =1000 Gram = * 2 Pounds (United States) 
^ Kilogram = 500 Gram = * 1 Pound ( " " ) 

1 German Pound.. = 500 Gram = * 1 Pound ( " " ) 

1 Liter (1.)....= 1 Quart (qt.) =* 8 Jelly glasses (medium) 
i^ Liter = 1 Pint (pt.) 

1 Deciliter (dl.) .. . . = 1 Gill (gi.) = Vol. of 154 Diam. by 3 in. high. 

THEREFORE : 

1 Kilogram or Kilo . ^ * 2 Pounds (United States) 

500 Gram =* 1 Pound ( " " ) 

250 Gram =* ^ Pound ( " " ) 

125 Gram =*J4 Pound ( " " ) 

POPULAR MEASURES 

2 Gram =*1 Thimble full 

4 Gram ^*1 Teaspoon struck 

6 Gram = * 1 " heaped 

25 Gram =*1 Tablespoon struck , 

30 Gram =: * 1 " heaped J 

50 to 60 Gram butter^* 1 Tablespoon; well rounded (£jrf/cfe = size of an egg) 

% Pound I u^if sta'tes I ^^°^'^ ~*^ Teacups (small cups) 

y. Pou„d{J^f|-^J {^tSd3 } =*l/.Teacups 

1 German Pound (Metric) = * 1 Pound 1>4 Ounces (United States) 

1 German Pound = * IJ^ U. S. Pounds 

1 United States Pound = * Ys German Pounds ^ 16 Ounces 

The sign * means approximately 



Rice, Farina, Barley 
■ Starch, Sugar 



—392 — 
GRAM AND OUNCES COMPARED 



United States 


Metric 


United States 


Metric 


1 Ounce 


28 Grams 


9 Ounces 


255 Grams 


2 Ounces 


57 Grams 


10 Ounces 


283 Grams 


3 Ounces 


85 Grams 


11 Ounces 


312 Grams 


4 Ounces ' 


113 Grams 


13 Ounces 


340 Grams 


5 Ounces 


142 Grams 


. _1 R -O-iwceo- -' 


369 Grams 


01J11S.C3 


ITO Grarhs 


14 Ounces 


397 Grams 


7 Ounces 


198 Grams 


15 Ounces 


425 Grams 


8 Ounces 


327 Grams 


16 Ounces 


454 Grams 



, Gram 


Ounces 


Dram 


kilogram 


Pounds 


Ounces 


1 


%2 


^ 


1 


2 


3 


2 


Vls 


1 








3 


%2 


1/2 


2 


4 


7 


4 


% 


2 








5 


%2 


2/^ 


3 


6 


10 


6 


?l6 


3 








7 


%4 


3/2 


4 


8 


13 


8 


Vi 


4 








9 


W2 


iy2 


5 


li 


.. 


10 


%6 


5 


10 


22 





WEIGHTS (old and new) USED PARTICULARLY IN SOUTHERN 

GERMANY (INCLUDING AUSTRIA) 
1 Vienna Pound = 32 Loth 1 Vienna Pound . . . =56i?^feo = 560 Gram 

1 Vienna LofA .. = 1754 Gram 1 Deka (Dekagram) = .10 Gram 

1 Vienna Loth . . = f^ Ounce 1 Deka = *5^ Ounce 

1 Kilogram (kg.) = 1000 Gram = 3 German Pounds (Metric) 

= * 1^ Vienna Pounds 

1 Vienna Pound = 560 Gram = IJ^. German Pounds @ 500 Gram 

— *!% Pounds (United States) 

1 German Pound (Metric) . = 500 Gram == % Vienna Pounds 

= *iys United States Pounds 

1 Kilogram or Kilo = 100 Deka (Dekagram) 

I Liter (1.) = 10 Deciliter 

1 Deciliter (dl.) = 10 Centiliter = J4 Pint 

1 Tablespoon struck = 1 Centiliter 

1 Deka = * 10 Gram = * Ys Ounces = 6 Dram 

1 Loth =* 17^ Gram = *s/s Ounces = 10 Dram 

1 Gram = = *%2 Ounce = Yi Dram 

The sign * means approximately. 



— 393 — 
GRAM AND OUNCES COMPARED 



OLD 




METRIC 


United States 


OLD 




METRIC 


United States 


Irf)th 


Deka & Gram 


Gram 


Lb. lOunces 


lK>tll 


Deka & Gram 


Gram 


Lb. [Ounces 


1 


l 


7/2 


17J^ 






Vs 


17 


29 


7Vi 


297^ 


.. 


wVi 


2 


3 


5 


33 






-iU 


18 


31 


5 


315 






hVa. 


3 


5 


2/2 


52^ 






m 


19 


33 


Z'y^ S^ayi - 


-• 


. - 


r T^^r^ ~ 


4 


7 




70 






2/2 


20 


35 




350 






121/4 


5 


8 


7/2 


87^ 






sVi 


21 


36 


iy2 


367>^ 






liVs 


6 


10 


5 


105 






Wa 


22 


38 


5 


385 






1354 


7 


12 


2/2. 


1221/4 






m 


23 


40 


2/2 


4021/4 






143/g 


9 


15 


7/2 


157^ 






5H 


24 


42 




420 






15 


9 


15 


7/2 


157 






5H 


25 


43 


7/2 


4371/4 






155/i 


10 


17 


5 


175 






6V4 


26 


45 


5 


455 




.... 


11 


19 


1/. 


191'/4 






6%. 


27 


47 


2/2 


47214 




% 


12 


21 




210 






I'A 


28 


49 


... 


490 




1/2 


13 


22 


7/ 


227J4 






m 


29 


50 


7/2 


5071/4 




a/8 


14 


24 


5 


245 






m 


30 


52 


5 


525 




2/4 


15 


26 


2/2 


262^ 






OH 


31 


' 54 


2/2 


542^ 




3/8 


16 


28 




280 






10 


32 


56 




560 


1 


4 



GRAM AND OUNCES COMPARED 



U.S. 


Metric 


U.S. 


Metric 


Ounces 


Gram 


Ounces 


Gram 


Vs 


4 


Vs 


18 


V4 


7 


V4 


22 


H 


11 


Vs 


25 


/2 


14 


1 


28 



DRY MEASURES 
TEASPOON and TABLESPOON 
1 Teaspoon Sugar— heaped =* 1 Ounce 

1 Tablespoon { ^j^^V^S^"^" \ heaped = * 1 Ounce 

1 Tablespoon Butter — well rounded — *1J4 Ounces 

CUP OR GLASS (medium) 

1 Cup or Glass (medium) Sugar :^*1 Pound 

254 " " " " Sugar— pulverized =*1 Pound 

3 " " " " Farina =*1 Pound 

Syi " " " " Flour (wheat) =*1 Pound 

2 " " " " Butter =*1 Pound 

PINT: 

1 Pint Sugar =*l Pound 

1J4 " Flour (wheat) =*1 Pound 

The sign * means approximately. 



— 394 — 
UNITED STATES MEASURES 

1 Gill (gil.)....= J4 Pint = 8% cubic inches = 0.1376 Liter 

1 Pint (pt.) ...= 54 Quart = 33% " " = 0.5506 Liter 

1 Quart (qt.) . . = 3 Pints = 67^^ " " = 1-1013 Liter 

1 Peck (pk.)...= 8 Quarts = 537^ " " = 8.810 Liter 

1 Bushel (bu.) . = 4 Pecks = 2150%6 " " =36,3 4'^ 7 Liter 

1 Gallon (gal.) =_^. . . .-, . ^.^^__268!i:^_ " - " ^ 

""^ NOTEl^^ry Measures are about % larger than liquid measures. 
1 Bushel=4 Pk. ; 1 Bushel, heaped=5 Pk. ; 4 Bushel, heaped=5 Bu., struck 

LIQUID MEASURES 
UNITED STATES MEASURES 

1 Gill (gi.) = K Pint = 7^2 cu. in = 0.1183 Liter 

1 Pint (pt.) =54 Quart =4 Gills = 28% cu. in. = 0.473 Liter 
1 Quart (qt.) = 2 Pints =8 Gills = 57^" "=0.946 Liter 
1 Gallon (gal.) = 4 Quarts =8 Pints =231 " " =3.785 Liter 
1 Liter = 10 Deciliter = 100 Centiliter = 1000 Milliliter 

1 Liter =0.908 Dry Quart =1.0567 Liquid Quart 
1 Dry Quart = IJ^ Liquid Quart 
1 Liquid Quart =: yi Dry Quart 

OLD GERMAN WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (After 1834) 

1 Zo///'/«rarf (German Pound) = 30 Z-ofA = 500 Gram 

= * myz. Ounces = * 1 Pound V/t. oz. 

1 Loth = 10 Quentchen = 16.66 Gram 

= * l4 Ounce 

1 Quentchen .= 1.66 Gram 

= * %o Ounce 

1 Quentchen =: 1 Thimblefull 

1 Vienna Pound. = 33 Lo;/i =560 Gram = * 1>4 Pound (U. S.) 
1 LoiA (Vienna) = = 17^Gram = * 5^ Ounce (U. S.) 

1 Vienna Pound :=: 56 Deka 

1 Deka (Dekagram) =: 10 Gram 



Southern 
Germany, 
including 
Austria 



1 Neuloth.. = 4 Vienna I,ott= 7 2?«feo = * 2^4 Ounces (U. S.) . 
1 Unze (German Ounce) — We German Pound (Metric) 

= * 1A2 Troy Pound = * 30 Gram = * 1 Ounce (U. S.) 
1 German Pound (ZoUpfund) =: % Vienna Pound 
1 Vienna Pound = 1% German Pound 

1 5.;../F./=/i,«j^/,^-((|™ (U.S.) 

1 Metze =* =*3i4 Liter = 3 Quarts (U. S.) 

1 [Mass 1 

1 -( Quart, Quartier )■ = * i%6 Liter = 1 Quart (U. S.) 

1 I. Kanne J 

1 Schoppen =54 Liter = * 1 Pint (U. S.) 

\T%7chen{ =%Kanne =/. Liter = * 1 Pint (U. S.) 

The sign * means approximately. 



— 395 — 

INDEX. 



FTo£ixce ........,, 

Keliable Weigii-bB oxui '^tuxavoeoa _ . . 

Chapter 1, Nos. 1 — 68. 

SOUPS. 

No. 

Apple Soup 50 

Asparagus Soup with Bouillon. 38 

Barley Gruel Soup 26 

" " Soup with Bouillon 25 

" Soup with Bouillon.... 24 
Bean-Puree Soup with Crab or 

Lobster Butter 34 

Bean Soup with Bouillon 33 

Beer Soup 49 

Bouillon 1 — 2 

' ' made of Roast Bones or 

Meat Remnants 6 

Bouillon 1 — 6 

' ' of Meat Extract 4 

" Rice Soup with Toma- 
toes 21 

Breadsticks for Bouillon 16 

Butter-Dumpling Soup 8 

Buttermilk Soup or Sour Milk 

Soup ^ 67 

Cauliflower Soup with Bouillon 39 

Celery Soup with Milk 41 

Cheesesticks for Bouillon .... 17 

Cheese Pastry 18 

Chicken Bouillon to drink .... 59 

" Soup 62 

Chocolate Soup 55 

Cold Rice Soup with Apples ... 23 
Crawfish or Crab Soup with 
Marrow-Dumplings or Liver- 
Dumplings 57 

Curdle Soup 14 

Dumplings for Bouillon, Mar- 
row-Dumpling Soup 7 

Farina-Dumpling Soup 12 

" Soup with Bouillon ... 30 
Fish Soup with Fish-Dumplings 56 

Flour Dumplings 19 

" Soup (Wheat) 52 

Fresh Vegetable Soup with 

Bouillon 37 

Green Corn Soup with Bouillon 31 

Lentil Soup 36 

Liver-Dumpling Soup 9 

Marrowstrips for Soup 15 

Meat-Dumpling Soup 10 

Milk Soup 54 

Mock-Turtle Soup 44 

Oatmeal Soup 32 

Ox-tail Bouillon 3 

Oyster Soup 58 

Oysterplant Soup 68 

Partridge Soup 63 

Pea Soup with Bouillon 35 

Pigeon Bouillon to drink 60 

^' Soup 61 

Potato Soup 46 

*' " with Bouillon .... 45 

Red Wine Soup 48 

" " " with Sago ... 65 



Page. 
.. . 3 

4. 



Page. 
19 
15 
Vi, 
11 
11 

14 

13 

19 

b 

6 
5 
b 

10 
9 



25 
15 
16 
9 
9 
22 
23 
21 
11 



22 
8 

6 
7 
13 
21 
10 
20 

15 
13 
14 
7 
8 
7 
21 
17 
13 
5 
22 
26 
24 
14 
23 
23 
18 
18 
19 
24 



_. „ No. Page. 

Rice Soup with Bouillon 20 10 

T,' ' B " , with Milk 22 10 

Rye Bread S^i)up-T„,.__ gi 20 

Flour Soup — &«i 

Sago Soup with Bouillon 28 

" " with Red Wine or 

Raspberry Juice 29 12 

Sorrel Soup with Bouillon .... 40 • 16 

Sponge-Dumpling Soup 11 7 

Stirred Sponge-Dumplings .... 13 8 

Sweet Barley Gruel Soup .... 27 12 

Tomato Soup 42 16 

" with Milk 43 17 

" " with Small Meat 

or Potato-Dtimplings 66 25 

White Wine Soup 47 18 

Wild Game or Poultry Soup . . 64 24 



Chapter 2, Nos. 1 — 36. 

BEEF. 

Beef Cutlets of Roastbeef 18 

" Fillet Beefsteak 4 

" " Roast 3 

" ** Steaks with Cham- 
pignons and fried Gooseliver 5 

Beef Gulash 16 

' ' Hash 20 

" Pot Roast 11 

* ' Roulade 15 

" Salad 24 

' ' with Onions 22 

Boiled Beef 19 

Boiled Beef Slices fried with 

Eggs and Onions 23 

Braised Beef Slices 12 

Broiled Steak of Roast Beef. . 6 
Chopped German Steak or Ham- 
burg Steak 8 

Chop Suey 36 

Corned Beef 30 

" '* for Cooking 31 

Cow Udder 29 

Croquettes 25 

Fillet Beefsteak for Breakfast. 10 
Fried Beef Liver with Break- 
fast Bacon 28 

Hash with Potatoes 21 

Konigsberger Klops 27 

Meat Pudding — 

How to Utilize Roast Beef. 
Roastbeef with Rice Covering 2 

Meat Pudding No. 2 26 

Pickled Beef Tongue 33 

Ragout of Ox Tongue 35 

Raw Beefsteak a la Tartare . . 9 

Roast Beef 1 

Roasted Rib-Piece 13 

Smoked Corned Beef 32 

' ' Pickled or Fresh Beef 
for Cooking and Frying .... 34 

Sour Roast 14 

Steak from the Beef Round . . 7 
Steamed Beef-Brisket 17 



36 
29 
29 

30 
35 
37 
33 
35 
38 
37 
36 

37 
33 
30 

31 
43 
40 
40 
40 



39 
37 
39 



28 
39 
41 
42 
32 
28 
33 
41 

41 
34 
31 
35 



—396— 



Chapter 3, Nos. 1 — 42. 

VEAL. 

No. Page. 

Breaded Veal Chops 22 5a 

" Cutlets 19 5S 

Breast of Veal with Beer .... 12 __50 

Calf's Brains . ^„-- —''^ • • 75 P~ 

' *_ ji^«rti- Kagout 13 50 

Tongue 14 51 

Chopped Veal Cutlets 21 54 

Croquettes from Veal B«mnaiits 31 59 

'.' of Sweetbreads .... 30 58 

Stuffed Breast of Veal 11 49 

Larded and Baked Calf's Liver 36 61 

" Braised Calf's Liver . . 37 61 

Leg of Veal 1 4s 

Liver Dumplings 34 60 

Meat Balls from Veal Remnants 32 59 
Puff-Paste Patties filled with 

Sweetbread Ragout 29 5b 

Roasted Frieandeau of Veal . . 10 49 

Roast Veal Loin with Kidney 9 49 

Saddle of Veal 8 48 

Shells filled with Veal Roast.. 5 47 
Stewed Veal or Calf's Tongue 

with ■ Raisins 41 63 

Stuffed Veal Crown Roast .... 42 63 

Sweetbreads 27 57 

" in Shells or other 

Small Molds 28 57 

Unbreaded Veal Cutlets (Chops) 18 53 

Veal Cutlets as a fine Side-Diah. 20 54 

in White Wine ... 25 56 
" " or Schnitzel a la 

Holstein 24 55 

Veal Fricassee 16 52 

Gulash 17 52 

'* Hash from Remnants ... 33 60 

Veal Kidneys 38 62 

" " with Bread or Rolls 39 62 
*-' or Calf 's Liver with Break- 
fast Bacon 35 60 

Veal or Calf's Tripe 40 62 

' ' Roast Pudding 6 47 

* * " Ragout — Brown . . 4 46 

" " Salad 7 48 

" " with Potatoes .... 3 46 

" Steak from the Leg 26 56 

Vienna Veal-Schnitzel (Veal 

Cutlets) 23 55 

Warmed up Veal Roast 2 45 



Chapter 4, Nos. 1 — 32. 

MUTTON. 

Baked Mutton Kidneys 19 

Breaded Lamb Roast 28 

Broiled Breaded Mutton Chops 15 
Irish Stew. Mutton Cutlets in 
all kinds of Vegetables and 

Potatoes 18 

Lamb Crown Roast 32 

" Roast 27 

" Stew 30 

Larded Saddle of Mutton, Mock 

Venison 7 

Leg of Mutton, English Style. . 1 

" " " in Milk 2 

" " " with Red Wine 3 



71 
75 
70 



71 
76 
74 
76 

67 
65 
65 
66 



No. 

Mutton Chops with Potatoes . . 16 

' ' Cutlets Broiled 14 

*' '* or Chops ; . . . . 13 

" Kidney Pudding 20 

' ' or Lamb Ragout 29 

Pie 25 _ 

" '_*.-Pr-eDareii. Sii^pir • 26 

Ragout 21 

' * Roast Salad 24 

Steak 12 

' ' Stew 6 

" Stew with White Cab- 
bage 11 

" Tenderloin 9 

' ' with Pickles 23 

' ' with Potatoes 22 

Plain Ragout of Mutton or 

Lamb 31 

Roasted Leg of Mutton with 

Champignons 4 

Saddle of Mutton a la English 

Style 8 

Stewed Mutton Cutlets 17 

' ' Rack of Mutton .... 10 

Stuffed Roasted Leg of Mutton 5 



Page. 
70 
69 
69 

72 
75 
7a 
74 
72 
73 
69 
67 

69 
68 

73 
72 

76 

66 



70 
68 
67 



Chapter 5, Nos. 1 — 35. 

PORK. 

Boiled Ham with Macaroni ... 13 

" " " Noodles 12 

Braised Pork Roast 4 

Breaded Ham 14 

Leg of Pork 3 

Cabbage Sausages 30 

Chopped Pork Cutlets 18 

Fresh Young Leg of Pork for 

Roast 2 

Fried Ham with Eggs 11 

' ' Sausage 26 

' ' Sausages 28 

Ham in Burgundy Wine 10 

Meat Salting and Pickling ... 34 

Mock-Rabbit 22 

Pickled Ham 35 

Pork Kidneys 20 ' 

" Ragout or Pork Pepper. . 21 

' ' Ribs and Sauerkraut ... 24 

' ' Stew 6 

' ' Roast 1 

Roasted Pork Outlets 17 

Pork-Fillet 15 

Sausage 25 

Sausages 27 

Salt Pork or Hip-bone for stew 7 
Smoked Ham Boiled, Breaded 

with Rye Bread Crumbs ... 9 

Smoked Ham for Cooking .... 8 

Sour Pork Roast 5 

Spanferkel or Roast Little Pig 31 

a la French Style . . 33 

Stewed Pork Cutlets 19 

Stuffed Hog's Head 23 

" Pork-Fillet called Mock 

Duck 16 

Stuffed Spanferkel or Roast 

Little Pig 32 

White Cabbage Pie with Pork. 29 



82 
82 
79 
82 
79 
89 
84 

78 
81 
87 
88 
81 
90 
85 
90 
85 
85 
87 
80 
78 
84 
83 
87 
88 
80 

80 
80 
79 
89 
90 
84 
86 

83 

89 
88 



-aav- 



Chapter 6, Nos. 1 — 56. 
POULTRY AND GAME BIRDS. 



No. 

Blackbirds 43 

Ohicken Croquettes 9 

' * or Pigeon Cutlet la 

Pie 6 

" " English Style .... 13 
'* Kagout in Shells or 

other small Molds 8 

Duck Ragout 56 

Fat Goose Stuffed with Apples. 21 
" " " " Chest- 
nuts 22 

Fine Chicken Fricassee 10 

' ' Kagout of Partridge .... 42 

Fried Capon Ragout 51 

*' Duck Liver 31 

* ' Goose Liver 23 

" Old Pheasant 34 

' * Partridge 40 

" Pheasant 33 

" Pigeon 15 

* ' Pigeons with Sweet Stuff- 
ing 17 

Fried Snipes 45 

' ' Woodcock 47 

" Woodcock, Another Form 

of 48 

Goose and Duck Schwartz-sauer 32 

" Giblets 24 

" Liver Pie 25 

' ' Liver Pudding 26 

Grouse Pie 39 

Leipzig Larks 44 

Old or Young Chicken with Rice 5 

Partridge with Sauerkraut ... 41 
Pheasant Patties in Shells or 

other Small Molds 35 

Pheasant Pie 37 

Pigeon Pie, English Style .... 14 

Poulard Fricassee 55 

Puff-Paste Patties, Filled with 

Cliicken Ragout 7 

Red Grouse and Guinea Hen ... 38 

" " Cutlets 53 

Roast Capons 50 

" Duck 29 

' ' Poulard 54 

* ' Spring Chicken 1 

' ' Turkey 18 

' ' Wild Duck 49 

Roasted and Stuffed Turkey . . 19 

" Wild Goose 27 

" Young Goose 20 

Smoked Goose Breast 28 

Snipe on Toast 46 

Stewed Capon 52 

" Chicken with Cham- 
pignons 4 

' ' Pheasant 36 

Stuffed Chicken, Another Form 

of 3 

Stuffed Duck, Another Form of 30 

" Roasted Chickens 2 

" Fried Pigeons 16 

Vienna Baked Chicken 11 



Page. 
110 

95 
90 
94 
97 

95 
115 
100 

101 
95 
109 
113 
105 
101 
106 
•109 
10a 



98 
111 
112 

112 
105 
101 
102 
102 
108 
111 
93 
109 

106 

107 

97 

115 

94 
108 
114 
113 
104 
114 

91 

99 
112 

99 
103 
100 
103 
111 
113 

93 

107 

92 
104 
92 
98 
96 



Chapter 7, Nos. 1 — ^25. 

GAME. 

No. 
Chopped Steak of Game. Deer, 
Doe, Boar or Wild Babbit 

Meat is used 10 

Cold Game Pie.- Mad* team Deer, 
Doe, Boar or Rabbit Meat. .11 

Deer or Doe Liver 4 

Domestic Rabbit Roast 23 

Game Ragout made from Rem- 
nants 12 

Hasenpfeffer (Rabbit Pepper).. 19 

How to Skin a Rabbit 14 

Lapins 25 

Leg or Saddle of Wild Boar. . 13 

' of Venison 2 

" " " 8 

" " " Another Form of 9 

Rabbit Cutlets 18 

" Liver 20 

Pie 22 

' * Roast 15 

Salad 21 

Roast Saddle of Venison 1 

Saddle of Venison 7 

Stuffed Domestic Rabbit Roast. 24 

Stewed Rabbit 16 

" ** Another Form of 17 

To Carve a Leg of Venison ... 6 

Venison Cutlets 3 

' ' Ragout 5 



Chapter 8, Nos. 1 — 61. 
FISH. 

Baked Eel 12 

" Gurnet 86 

' ' Lobster 52 

' ' Red Snapper 22 

Sole 35 

Boiled Codfish 32 

' ' Crawfish or Crabs .... 53 

" Lobster 48 

" Red Snapper 26 

' * Salmon 5 

Trout 9 

' ' Turbot 24 

Codfish Hash 42 

' ' Ragout 33 

Cold Eel Roulade 15 

* * Lobster 49 

Crab Cutlets with Vegetables. . . 54 

' * Ragout 55 

Eel, Blue 11 

* ' in Beer 13 

*' with Rice (Fricassee) .... 14 
Fillet of Shellfish, Whitefish, 

Cabeljou, Sole, with Dressing 29 

Fish, Boiled 1 

Broiled or Roasted 4 

Baked 2 

Steamed or Stewed 3 

and Potato Pudding .... 40 

Croquettes 38 

Cutlets 39 

Fricassee from Pickerel or 

Whitefish 19 



Page. 



118 
126 

121 
124 
12a 
127 
121 
117 
119 
119 
123 
125 
125 
122 
125 
116 
119 
126 
123 
123 
118 
117 

iia 



133 
143 
148 
138 
143 
142 
149 
14'7 
139 
131 
132 
139 
145 
142 
134 
148 
149 
150 
133 
133 
134 

140 
129 
130 
129 
130 
144 
144 
144 

136 



-398— 



No. 

Fried Fresh Herring 43 

' ' Mackerel ; . . . . 30 

' ' Oysters or Clams 58 

' ' Smelt or Sparling 28 

" Sole 34 

" Trout 10 

Herring Salad 47 

Larded and Stuff edJPicterfil — , -i^?- 

Eiobster Croquettes or Cutlets. 60 
" Bagout in Shells or on 

Toast 51 

Marinated Salt Herring 45 

* ' " " a Simple 

Way 46 

Oysters 56 

Oyster or Clam Pudding with 

Rice 60 

Oyster or Clam Salad . 59 

" Patties 57 

Pickerel or CodflsTi Salad .... 21 
' ' or Whitefish with Sauer- 
kraut 23 

Pickerel with Tomato Sauce. . . 20 
Red Snapper with Red Wine 

Dressing 27 

Rolled, Stuffed Fish Fillets ... 31 

Salmon, Blue 6 

" Salad 7 

" Steak 61 

Salted Codfish Croquettes .... 41 

Sliced Salmon Broiled 8 

Small Fish Ragouts in Shells 
or Small Molds; Utilizing 

Remnants of Fish 37 

Stuffed and Larded Pike 18 

To Marinate or Pickle Herring 44 

Turbot Fricassee 25 



F»ge. 
145 
141 
150 
140 
142 
132 
147 

— 10«^ 
135 
148 

148 
146 

146 
150 

151 
151 
150 
138 

13S 
137 

140 
141 
131 
131 
385 
145 
132 



143 
136 
146 
139 



Chapter 9, Nos. 1 — 12. 
HEAD-CHEESE AND GELATINES. 



Eel in Jelly 9 

Fish in Jelly 8 

Gelatine or Head-Cheese from 

Poultry Bouillon 3 

Goose-Liver in Jelly 12 

Head-Cheese from Goose or 

Duck 6 

Head-Cheese from Ox-Tongue.. 5 
" " " Partridge .. 7 

" " " Pigs' Feet 

and Calf's Tongue 4 

How to Prepare Gelatine .... 1 
Heat Gelatine for Patients ... 2 
Oysters and Caviar in Jelly ... 11 
Salmon in Jelly 10 



156 
155 

153 
157 

154 
154 
155 

153 
152 
152 
157 
156 



Chapter 10, Nos. 1 — 58. 

DRESSINGS OR GRAVIES. 

No. Page. 

Apricot Sauce 54 174 

Arrack Sauce 46 173 

Asparagus Gravy 7 161 



No. 

Bacon Gravy 26 

Brown Champignon Sauce .... 28 
Burgundy or Madeira Sauce for 

Ham, Pish or Tongue 25 

Cocoa Sauce 48 

Caper Sauce ,.---- 17 

Cauliflower Gravy 6 

-Ciiarry, 13urranf, Blueberry 

Sauce 57 

Cherry Sauce 52 

Chocolate Sauce 49 

Cold Caviar Dressing 40 

" Chive Dressing for Beef. . 39 

' ' Herb Dressing 37 

** Mustard Dressing for Cold 

Lamb or Veal Roast 35 

Cold Remoulade Dressing, very 

fine 38 

Cooked Mayonnaise Dressing, 
very good with Lobster or 

Chicken Salad 43 

Crab or Lobster Gravy for Fish, 

Chicken and Fricassee 19 

! Dill, Chive or Tarragon Gravy. 32 

Dutch Gravy 2 

Pine Bearnaise Sauce, for Fil- 
lets, Saddle of Mutton, Mut- 
ton Cutlets 10 

Fine Dutch Gravy for Fish or 

Veal 3 

Fine Gravy, for Poultry, Meat 

and Fish 13 

Fine Mustard Gravy, for Beef 

and Fish 8 

Fine Tomato Dressing 12 

Fruit Puree Sauce 68 

Good Fish Gravy 5 

Herb Gravy 27 

Horse Radish Dressing, Raw . . 15 

" " Gravy 14 

Lemon Sauce 50 

Maraschino Sauce 51 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 1 

(Cold) 41 

Mayonnaise Dressing No. 2 . . . 42 
Mayonnaise Dressing No. 3 for 

Poultry Salad 44 

Morel Sauce 30 

Oil Dressing a la -Tartare, for 
Hard Boiled Eggs, Cold Beef 

and Head-Cheese 34 

Onion Gravy, for Boiled Beef. . 22 

Oyster Dressing 18 

Parsley Gravy 31 

Pearl Onion Gravy 23 

Pickle Gravy 24 

Plain Mus.tard Dressing, for Fish 

and Beef 9 

Prune Sauce 53 

Raspberry Sattce 56 

Remoulade Sauce 20 

Sardine Gravy, for Meat and 

Fish 16 

Sorrel Gravy 33 

Strawberry Sauce 55 

Whipped Dutch Gravy, for Fish, 
Asparagus, Cauliflower, Oyster 

Plants and Scorzonera 4 

Tartare Dressing 36 

Tomato Gravy n 

Truffle Sauce 29 

Vanilla Sauce 47 



Page. 

167 
167 

166 
173 
164 
161 

175 
174 
173 
171 
171 
170 

170 

171 



164 
169 
159 



162 

160 

163 

161 
162 
175 
160 
167 
163 
163 
174 
174 

171 
172 

172 
168 



169 
165 
164 
168 
166 
166 

161 
174 
175 
165 

163 
169 
174 



183 
170 
162 
168 
173 



-399— 



__ . No. Page. 

Wliipped Dutcli GraTy, for Pish 
Asparagus, Cauliflower, Oyster 
Plants and Scorzonera 4 160 

White Fricassee Sauce, for 

Chicken or Veal Fricassee.. 21 165 

White Gravy 1 159 

White Wine Sauce 45 172 



Chapter 11, Nos. 1—26. 

POTATOES. 

Baked Potatoes 3 

' ' Potato Pudding 15 

Bouillon Potatoes 18 

Creamed Potatoes 14 

French Fried Potatoes, Pomme 

Souffle 8 

Fried Raw Potatoes 21 

New Potatoes in their Jackets. 2 

Parsley Potatoes 7 

Peeled Potatoes 4 

Potato Balls, Fried 12 

' ' Chips 9 

'* Croquettes 11 

" Dumplings from Boiled 

Potatoes 23 

Potato Dumplings, Another kind 

of 24 

Potatoes in their Skins or Jack- 
ets 1 

Potato Pancakes 17 

Potatoes with Crackers 20 

Raw Potato-Dumplings 25 

Sardine or Herring Potatoes . . 19 

Small Potato Balls, for Fish. . . 5 

Sour Potatoes 13 

Steamed Potato Pudding 16 

Stuffed Potatoes 10 

Sweet Potatoes 22 

Utilizing Remnants of Potato- 
Dumplings 26 

Utilizing Remnants of Potato 

Balls, Mashed Potatoes 6 



Chapter 12, Nos. 1 — ^74. 

VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus 8 

' ' and Cauliflower Ome- 
let 23 

'* with Brown Butter. . 1 

' ' with Cream Dressing 3 

" with Creamed Butter 2 

Artichokes with Butter 13 

Beets 51 

Brussels Sprouts 32 

" * ' Another Way 

of Preparing 33 

Canned Artichokes 15 

* ' Asparagus 4 

" Green Beans 47 

" Sweet-sour Beans .... 50 

' ' Wax Beans 48 



176 
180 
181 
180 

178 
182 
176 
177 
177 
179 
178 
179 

182 

183 

176 
180 
182 
183 
181 
177 
179 
180 
178 
182 

184 

177 



187 

192 
185 
186 
185 
189 
200 
194 

194 
189 
186 
199 
199 
199 



No. Page. 

Cauliflower 9 187 

" with Butter Sauce.. 10 188 
"wltli CraT) or Luljstei- 

Dressing 11 188 

Champignon Puree 63 204 

Champignons 62 203 

Chanterelles, Another Species 

of Mushrooms 68 205 

Chestnut Puree 73 207 

Filled or 'Stuifed Olives with 

Champignons 71 206 

Fried Chestnuts 74 207 

French Asparagus with Cream 

Dressing 5 186 

Fresh Green Peas 19 191 

" " " Another Way 20 191 

" " " and Carrots. 26 192 
" " " with Crab 

Meat 21 ■ 192 

' ' Wax Beans 49 199 

Gardi and Finocci as Vegetables. 60 203 

Green Asparagus 7 187 

*' String Beans, Prepared 

Another Way 45 198 

Kale or Borecole 34 195 

Kohlrabi 41 197 

Lettuce 29 193 

Marrow Peas 24 192 

{Mixed or Leipzig Vegetables.. 61 203 

Morels 66 205 

Mushrooms 67 205 

Olives as Vegetables 69 208 

f Oyster Plants, Salsify 17 190 

Pea Omelet 22 192 

Preserved Asparagus with Cream 6 187 

Roasted Chestnuts 72 206 

Salted Green Beans 46 198 

Savoy Cabbage 31 19* 

Scalloped Artichokes with Cheese 16 190 

" Cauliflower, an gratin. 12 188 

Scorzonera 18 190 

Sorrel 28 193 

Spinach 27 193 

" in Individual Molds... 30 193 

Stewed Artichokes 14 189 

' ' Cucumbers 58 202 

" Green String Beans . . 44 198 

Red Cabbage 35 195 

White Cabbage 37 196 

Stuffed Root Celery or Celeriac 

au jus 59 202 

" Cucumbers 57 201 

Olives 70 206 

' * Onions 53 200 

' ' Tomatoes 55 201 

Teltow Turnips 43 197 

Tomatoes 54 201 

Pilled with Meat .... 56 201 

Truflle Puree . .'. 65 204 

Truffles in Brown Dressing ... 64 234 

Turnips 42 197 

White Cabbage 36 195 

* ' * ' Prepared like 

Cauliflower ... 38 196 

" " Sausages 39 196 

" " with Lamb ... 40 197 

Toung Carrots 25 192 

' ' Onions 52 200 



-400- 



Chapter 13, Nos. 1—47. 



SALADS. 

, No. Page. 

Asparagus Salad 17 212 

" " with Mayon- 
naise 18 212 

Bean Salad 22 213 

" " 26 214 

Beef Salad 3S 216 

Carrot Salad 21 212 

Cauliflower Salad 19 212 

" with Cooked Mayon- 
naise 20 212 

Celeriac or Boot Celery Salad. 23 213 
Celery Salad mixed with Pota- 
to Salad with Mayonnaise 

Dressing 24 213 

Celery Salad with Mayonnaise 

Dressing 25 213 

Champignon Salad 30 215 

Chicken Salad 35 217 

Cold Slaw 32 216 

Cucumber Salad 10 210 

" " with Sour Cream 12 210 
Cucumbers and Head Lettuce 

Mixed 13 211 

Fine Mixed Vegetable Salad. . . 28 214 

Fruit Salad No. 1 44 219 

2 45 219 

" " 3 46 219 

" " 4 47 219 

," " Dressing 43 219 

" " as Dessert 41 218 

G-reen Lettuce 1 208 

" " Prepared Sweet, 

Head Lettuce 5 20y 

Green Lettuce with Bacon, Head, 

Endiye Lettuce 4 209 

G-reen Lettuce with Egg Dress- 
ing 2 208 

Green Lettuce with Mayonnaise 
Dressing, Head, Endive, Es- 

cariol Lettuce 3 208 

Herring Salad 36 217 

Lettuce Combination Salad. ... 42 218 

Lobster Salad 40 218 

Mixed Salad 27 214 

" " with Meat 29 215 

Oyster or 01am Salad 39 218 

Pike Salad 38 217 

Potato Salad 6 209 

" " with Bacon .... 9 210 
" " with Sour Cream 8 210 
" " with Spiced Dress- 
ing 7 209 

Babbit Boast Salad 34 216 

Salmon Salad 37 217 

Sweet Cucumber Salad 11 210 

Tomato Salad 14 • 211 

" " with Cooked May- 
onnaise 16 211 

Tomato Salad with Mayonnaise 

Dressing 15 211 

Truffle Salad 31 216 



Chapter 14, Nos. 1 — 15. 

EGGS. 

No. 

Boiled Eggs in Brine 7 

Brine Eggs in Cream Sauce ... 8 

Fried Eggs , 4 

** ** in Tomato Sauce- . . 6 

Hard Boiled Eggs 2 

* ' * * ' for Garnishing 3 

Poached Eggs 5 

Scrambled Egg Pancake 10 

Eggs 9 

" " English Style . 11 
" " with Chives . . 13 
" " with Red Her- 
ring 12 

Soft Boiled Eggs 1 

Stuffed Eggs, (Deviled Eggs) . . 14 
" " Another Form of 15 



Page. 
221 
221 
220 
221 
220 
220 
221 
222 
222 
222 
222 

222 
220 
223 
223 



Chapter 15, Nos. 1 — 58. 

Omelets, Pancakes, Waffles, Noodles 

and Pie. 



Apple Fritters 51 

" Pie 17 

" * ' Another kind of . . . 18 

" Strudel 49 

Asparagus Omelet 3 

Baked Macaroni 53 

Chicken Patties 36 

" Pie 30 

Chocolate Pie with Whipped 

Cream 58 

Cold Game Pie, Venison, Doe, 

Boar, Rabbit 41 

Cooked Noodles 45 

Filled Pancakes 11 

Fish Macaroni 55 

Goose Liver Pie 38 

Grape Pie 27 

Ham Noodles ." 47 

Lemon Pie 16 

Macaroni Pudding 56 

* ' with Ham 54 

" with Parmesan Cheese 52 

Mince Pie 24 

" " Another Kind of .. 25 

Muffins 57 

Noodle Pudding with Apples as 

Dessert 48 

Noodles 44 

Omelet for Breakfast 1 

" with Meat or Cham- 
pignons 6 

Omelet with Parmesan Cheese 

or Oysters 5 

Oyster Patties . 43 

Pancakes 10 

Patty Paste 31 

Peach Pie 21 

Pea Omelet 4 

Pheasant Pie 39 

Pie made from Grouse, Hazelhen, 
Snowhen, Snipe, Quail, Par- 
tridge 40 



236 
228 
229 
235 
224 
237 
234 
232 

238 

234 
235 
227 
237 
234 
232 
235 
228 
237 
237 
236 
231 
231 
238 

235 
234 
224 

225 

225 
234 
226 
233 
230 
225 
234 



234 



-401- 



No. Page. 

Pieplant Pie, Rhubarb 26 231 

Pigeon Pie, English Style 37 234 

Potato Pancakes 226 

PnfE Paste Scallops 33 233 

" Tarts 34 233 

Pumpkin Pie 23 330 

Babbit Pie 42 234 

Boiled up Apples 50 236 

Sand cake Waffles 14 227 

Soup Noodles 46 235 

Sour Cream Pie 28 232 

Squash Pie 22 230 

Strawberry or Huckleberry Pie 19 229 
* ' Pie with Whipped 

Cream 20 229 

Sweetbread Patties 35 233 

Sweet Omelet as Dessert 2 224 

' ' Puff Paste 32 233 

Tanilla Cream Pie 29 232 

Waffles 12 227 

" Another Form of 13 227 

Whipped Cream Omelet 7 225 

^' " " as Des- 
sert 8 226 

Whipped Cream Omelet with 

Frosting 9 226 

Teast Waffles 15 228 



Chapter 16, Nos. 1 — 23. 

SAUCES. 

Apple Sauoe 1 

Apricot Sauce 12 

Stewed Sliced Apples for Sauce 18 

Black Mulberry Sauce 7 

Blueberry Sauce 10 

Cherry Sauce 2 

Currant Sauce 5 

Dried Apples for Sauce 19 

Fresh Plum Sauce 8 

Gooseberry Sauce 9 

Greengage Sauce 14 

Melon Sauce 16 

Orange and Apple Sauce 17 

Peach Sauce 11 

Pear Sauce 22 

Pineapple Sauce 15 

Plum Sauce 13 

Prunes for Sauce 20 

Baspberry Sauce 4 

Rhubarb Sauce 21 

Strawberry Sauce 3 

Tomato Sauce 23 

Whortleberry or Huckleberry 

Sauce 6 



Chapter 17, Nos. 1—128. 

DESSERTS. 

Apple Fritters or Banana Frit- 
ters 54 

Apple Rice Pudding 2 

' ' Stmdel 55 

Apricot Ice 120 • 

" " Cream 109 

' ' Bice Pudding 5 

Arrack Cream with Whipped 
Cream 73 



239 
241 
243 
240 
241 
239 
240 
243 
240 
241 
242 
242 
242 
241 
244 
242 
241 
243 
240 
243 
239 
244 

240 



259 
245 
259 
275 
273 
246 

265 



No. Page. 

Baked Almond Pudding 36 254 

'* Apple and Farina Pudding 39 255 

" ■' Stew Pudding ... 40 255 

" Charlotte Pudding .... 35 254 

Cherry Pudding 31 253 

" Chocolate Pudding .... 38 254 

' ' Cream Pudding 27 252 

. " " " 43 256 

" Farina Pudding with 

Fruit 30 253 

Baked Flour Pudding 44 256 

' ' Lemon Pudding 32 253 

*' Macaroon Pudding .... 51 258 

" Noodle Pudding 49 257 

" Omelet Pudding 42 256 

" Potato Pudding 33 253 

" " " to be 

served with Meat 34 254 

Baked Quince Pudding 50 258 

" Bice Pudding 28 252 

" " Pudding with Fruit 

Layers 29 252 

Baked Bye Bread Pudding with 

Apples 48 257 

Baked Sponge Pudding 45 256 

* * Sweet Pudding with Wine 

Frosting 47 257 

Baked Veal Boast Pudding. ... 46 256 

" Yorkshire Pudding .... 37 254 
Biscuit Tortoni, Macaroon 

Mousse 60 261 

Black Pudding 25 251 

Cabinet Pudding 8 247 

Carthusian Dumplings with Wine 

Sauce 53 2&8 

Champagne Cream 100 271 

Prappe 124 276 

" Sherbet 123 276 

Cherry Jelly 70 264 

" Pudding 22 250 

103 272 

" Bice Pudding 3 246 

Chocolate Cream 88 268 

" Prepared Cold 87 268 

Ice Cream 112 274 

Mousse 89 268 

Pudding 11 248 

Strudel 56 259 

" with Dressing 57 260 

Coffee Cream Prepared Cold.. 86 268 

" Ice Cream 113 274 

" Mousse 91 269 

Cold Apple Cream 78 266 

'■ Pudding 79 266 

* ' Chocolate Pudding with 

Farina 97 270 

Cold Lemon Cream 82 767 

85 26S 

" Bice Pudding with Peaches 98 270 

" " Starch Pudding .... 96 270 

Com Starch Pudding 81 267 

Count Pueckler or Layer Mousse 95 269 

Currant and Raspberry Pudding 101 271 

Farina Pudding No. 1 14 249 

"2 23 251 

Pine Baked Apple Pudding ... 41 255 

Flour Pudding 12 248 

French Toast 52 258 

Fried Apple Pockets 59 260 

Froth or Foam Pudding 7 247 

Gooseberry Pudding 102 272 

Goose Liver Pudding 21 250 



— 402^ 



No. 

Hazelnut Mousse 92 

Hill Cream 104 

Layer Pudding 13 

Lemon Ice Cream 110 

" " Grarnished -witli Fruit 128 

" Jelly 67 

Macaroni Pudding 15 

Maple Syrup Ice 125 

Meat Pudding -with Rice Layers 1 7 
" " Another Form of. 18 

Mutton Kidney Pudding 19 

Nectar 80 

Nut Ice Cream 114 

Orange Cream Prepared Cold . 84 

" Gelatine 72 

' ' Jelly 68 

Peach Ice 119 

" " Cream 108 

' ' Rice Pudding 4 

Pineapple Cream 76 

Ice 121 

" " Cream Ill 

Jelly 69 

" Mousse 93 

Plain Cold Eice Pudding 99 

' ' Rice Pudding 6 

Plum Pudding 10 

Potato Pudding 16 

Pudding a la Brandenburg ... 26 

Raspberry Cream 75 

" Ice 118 

" " Cream 107 

Rice Pudding 1 

Roll Dumplings 126 

Better Kind of 127 
Rum Cream with Cherry Sauce 61 

'* or Cognac Mousse 94 

Russian Cream 83 

Sour Cream Pudding 24 

Steam Noodles 58 

Strawberry Cream 74 

" Ice 117 

" " Cream 106 

Jelly 71 

Tea Ice Cream 115 

Tutti-Prutti Ice 122 

Vanilla Cream 77 

' ' Ice Cream 105 

with Fruit 116 

" Mousse 90 

Veal Roast Pudding 20 

Wheat Bread Pudding 9 

Whipped Cream Pudding 62 

White Wine Jelly with Fruit 

Layers 66 

Wine Cream 64 

"■ Jelly with Rice Layers. . 65 
" Pudding 63 



Chapter 18, Nos. 1—29. 

BEVERAGES. 

Almond Milk 21 

Bishop ■ 9 

Cardinal, (Cold) 10 

Chocolate 22 

Iced 2.3 

Cocoa 24 

Coffee 28 



Page. 
269 
272 
249 
273 
277 
263 
250 
276 
250. 
250 
250 
267 
274 
267 
264 
263 
275 
273 
246 
265 
275 
274 
264 
269 
271 
247 
248 
250 
252 
265 
275 
273 
245 
277 
277 
261 
269 
267 
251 
260 
265 
275 
272 
264 
274 
276 
266 
273 
275 
269 
250. 
247 
261 

263 
262 
262 
261 



281 
279 
279 
282 
282 
282 
283 



No. Page. 

Cold Lemonade 19 281 

" Punch 1 278 

Cream Punch 11 279 

Currant Wine 17 281 

Egg Punch 5 278 

Pine Lemonade 20 281 

Gooseberry or Currant Wine . . 29 283 

Grog 8 279 

Hot King's Punch 3 278 

" Punch 2 278 

" Wine 7 279 

Iced Tea 27 283 

May Bowl or Woodruff Punch. 16 280 

Peach Punch 15 280 

Pineapple Punch 12 280 

President's Punch, cold or warm 4 278 

Raspberry Wine 14 280 

Strawberry Punch 13 280 

Tea 25 282 

' ' with Vanilla 26 282 

Warmbeer 18 281 

Warm Burgundy Punch 6 279 



Chapter 19, Nos, 1—111. 

BREAD AND CAKES. 

Apple Cake 16 

Biscuit 7 

Bread Sticks 6 

Cheese Cake 19 

Cherry Cake 17 

Coffee Cake 8 

" " with Egg Creani. . 24 

Currant Cake 20 

Filled Berliner Pancakes or 

Stuffed Doughnuts 11 

Health Bread or Groats Bread. 5 

Huckleberry Cake 22 

Onion Cake 23 

Plum Cake 18 

Poppy Seed Cake 21 

Round Coffee Cake No. 1 13 

" " ■ " with Raisins 14 

Rye Bread with Leaven 3 

Yeast 4 

Schnecken (Snails) 10 

Stollen 15 

Streusel Coffee Cake 9 

Wheat Bread No. 1 1 

" "2 .. 2 

Wreath Cake 12 

Baldng Powder Cakes. 

Almond Tart Filled with Cream 72 

Angel Cake .^ Ill 

Angel Food 101 

Angel's Pood 42 

Apple Tart 62 

Biscuit Tart 81 

Blitz-Kuchen 107 

Bread Tart 65 

Bremer Block 49 

Brown Spice Cake No. 1 51 

' " 3 86 

Caraway Cake 54 

Cheese Tart 61 

Cherry Tart 67 

Chocolate Tart 91 

" " No. 2 94 



288 
285 
285 
289 
289 
286 
290 
289 

287 
285 
290 
290 
289 
289 
287 
287 
284 
285 
286 
288 
286 
284 
284 
287 

304 
315 
312 
295 
301 
307 
314 
302 
297 
298 
308 
299 
301 
303 
310 
311 



No. Page. 
Coffee Cake with Almond Frost- 
ing 25 290 

Coffee Cake with Chocolate 

Frosting 26 291 

Cream Puffs 103 313 

" 104 313 

Date Cake with Whipped Cream 84 308 

Devil's Pood 41 295 

Emperor Tart 69 304 

English Cake 56 299 

" Bride's Cake (Fruit 

Cake) 92 310 

Farina Tart 85 308 

Fence Tart 97 311 

Fig Cake 44 296 

Filled Biscuit EoUs 83 308 

" Sand Tart 95 311 

Fire Tart 74 305 

Flat Cake 37 293 

Fruit Cake 48 297 

102 313 

" Tart 98 312 

Gold Cake 34 293 

Good Tart Dough 93 310 

Heaven's Pood 77 306 

Tart 76 306 

Hunter's Tart 73 305 

Lard Cake 89 309 

Layer Cake with Banana Pilling 31 292 

" " with Chocolate " 29 291 

" " . with Cocoanut ' ' 32 292 

" " with Cocoanut No. 2 45 296 

" with Jellr Pilling. 30 292 

Lightning Cake 53 298 

Love Chocolate Cake 100 313 

Meringue Tart '78 307 

Mouth Pockets 70 304 

Natron Cake 52 298 

Orange Tart 63 301 

Plain Fruit Cake 50 297 

Potato Tart or Cake '38 294 

Puff Paste Strips 71 304 

" " Tart with Cream.. 66 302 

Eioe Cake or Tart 39 294 

" Tart with Oranges 64 302 

Round Coffee Cake No. 2 27 291 

Sand Tart 82 307 

Scotch Tart 88 309 

Sexton's Cake 90 309 

Silver Cake 35 293 

Sour Cream Cake 59 300 

" " Doughnuts 105 314 

Spice Cake No. 2 58 300 

" 4 87 309 

" " 108 314 

Sponge Cake 33 292 

79 307 

Stirred Cake 28 291 

Strawberry or Raspberrv Puff 

Tart 68 303 

Strawberry Short Cake 40 294 

Sunshine Cake 47 297 

t* '* _ gg 312 

Tea Cake .'.'.!...!.....! 46 296 

Theater Cake 36 293 

Thousand Puff Tart 60 300 

Tree Tart 96 311 

Walnut Cake 57 299 

" " 110 315 

" Tart 80 307 



No. Page. 

Whipped Cream Cake 109 315 

White Almond Tart 75 305 

Wit Cake 55 299 

Yellow Angel's Food 43 295 



Chapter 20, Nos. 1 — 27. 
Fillings and l^rostings for Cal<es. 



Almond Filling 5 

' ' Frosting for Fruit Tart 

No. 1 23 

Almond Frosting No. 2 24 

Banana Filling 10 

Caramel Frosting 20 

Chocolate Filling 8 

' ' Frosting No. 1 .... 12 

" " " 2 13 

" " "3 14 

Cocoanut Filling 9 

Cream Frosting for Fruit Cake . . 26 

Date Filling 11 

Fruit Frosting 25 

Glaze Frosting for Honey Cake . 21 

Lemon Filling 6 

' ' Frosting 16 

Nut Filling No. 1 2 

"2 4 

Plain Almond Frosting 27 

' ' Frosting 19 

Raisin Filling 3 

Rum Frosting 22 

Tutti-Frutti Frosting No. 1 ... . 17 

" " 2 18 

Vanilla Filling 1 

** Frosting 15 

Walnut Filling 7 



Chapter 21, Nos. 1 — 53. 

COOKIES. 

Almond Bread 46 

" Heaps 5 

' * Macaroons 6 

Puffs 11 

" Straws No. 1 12 

' ' Strips No. 2 49 

Anise Cookies 14 

Brown Cookies No. 1 18 

" 2 20 

" "3 21 

" 4 22 

"5 23 

** Peppernuts No. 1 41 

" 2 42 

Butter Cookies 1 

19 

" Straws with Almonds.. 27 

Chocolate Cookies 28 

' ' Macaroons with Al- 
monds 7 

Chocolate Macaroons with Co- 
coanut 8 



316 

319 
319 
317 
319 
317 
317 
317 
318 
317 
319 
317 
319 
319 
316 
318 
316 
316 
320 
318 
316 
319 
318 
318 
316 
318 
317 



331 
322 
322 
323 
323 
332 
324 
324 
325 
325 
325 
326 
330 
330 
321 
325 
327 
327 

322 

322 



-404 — 



No. 

Cinnamon Stars 52 

Cocoanut Kisses 51 

' ' Drop Cakes 31 

Egg Cracknels 45 

Flawns 10 

Ginger Snaps 40 

Hazelnut Cookies 2 

Hickory Drop Cakes 32 

Honey Cakes 50 

Kisses 3 

Lady Fingers 53 

Molasses Cookies 30 

Mother's Cookies ...., 35 

Nut Chocolate Cookies 29 

Oatmeal Cookies No. 1 16 

" 2 17 

Peanut Drop Cakes 36 

*_' Straws 37 

Plain Peppernuts 48 

Baisin Cake 39 

Sand Cookies 4 

Small Hermit Cakes No. 1.... 33 

" " " " 2 34 

" Plain Cookies 38 

Springele 47 

Sugar Peppernuts 43 

Vanilla Plawns 15 

' ' Stars 44 

* ' Straws 13 

"Walnut Macaroons 9 

White Cookies No. 1 24 

" 2 25 

" " " 3 26 



Chapter 22, Nos. 1—20. 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Bon-Bons 7 

Butter Scotch 4 

Caramels 19 

Chocolate Candy 8 

' * Caramels No. 1 6 

* * • * * ' 2 12 

" Pudge '.'.'.'.'. 3 

" " 18 

Cocoanut Drops 11 

Cracker Jack 16 

Pudge 20 

Ice Cream Candy 15 

Lemon Candy 5 

Molasses Candy 1 

Nut Candy 9 

Peanut Candy 13 

Popcorn Balls 17 

Popcorn Candy 10 

Pulled Taffy 14 

Vinegar Taffy 2 



Page. 
332 
332 
328 
331 
323 
330 
321 
328 
332 
321 
332 
327 
329 
327 
324 
324 
329 
329 
331 
32» 
321 
328 
328 
329 
331 
330 
324 
331 
323 
322 
326 
326 
326 



334 
333 
336 
334 
334 
335 
333 
336 
335 
336 
337 
336 
334 
333 
334 
335 
336 
335 
335 
333 



Chapter 23, Nos. 1—115. 

PRESERVES. 

Apple Jelly 44 348 

Apricot Marmelade 48 349 

Apricots in Jelly 6 339 

' ' or Peaches in Brandy 9 340 

Asparagus 66 353 



No. Page. 

Blackberries 29 344 

Blackberry Juice 64 352 

Black Currant Jelly 41 348 

Blueberries, Huckleberries ... 24 343 

Blueberry Jelly 43 348 

" Juice 60 352 

Canned Fried Chicken, Duck or 

Wild Game 107 363 

Canned Salmon or other Large 

Fish 106 363 

Canned Spring Chicken 105 363 

Champignons in Vinegar 89 358 

*V or Mushrooms .. 88 358 

Cherry Syrup 57 351 

Chili Sauce Ill 364 

" 113 365 

Cognac Cherries 14 341 

Corn 74 355 

Crab Apple Jelly 45 348 

Cranberries 27 344 

Currants 28 344 

Currant Jelly 40 347 

" Juice 63 352 

Dill Pickles 114 365 

Dried Apples 99 362 

Pears 98 361 

English Chow Chow 112 364 

Glazed Chestnuts 102 362 

Gooseberries 21 343 

Grapes 37 347 

Grape Jelly 54 350 

Green Almonds 36 346 

" Beans 69 854 

** Color for Coloring Ices 

or Garnished Dishes 101 362 

Green Gages 25 343 

" or Small Yellow Oranges 34 346 

" Peas : 73 355 

Large Sweet Cherries 13 341 

Melons 30 345 

Mince Meat 108 363 

Mirabelle Plums No, 1 15 341 

" 2 16 341 

Mustard Pickles 95 360 

115 365 

Orange Juice 61 352 

Parsley 84 357 

" Carrots, Celery and Bor- 
age for the Winter 86 357 

Peaches and Apricots 4 339 

in Jelly 5 339 

Peach Marmelade 47 349 

Pear Jam 52 350 

Pearl Onions 87 358 

Peeled Green Gages 26 344 

Plums 18 342 

Piccalilli 76 355 

Pickled Apricots 8 340 

" Crab Apples 23 343 

" Peaches 7 339 

" Pears 22 343 

" Plums 20 342 

Walnuts 35 346 

Pine Apple 3 338 

Plain Tomatoes for Soup 78 356 

Plums 17 342 

Plum Jam 51 350 

' ' Marmelade 49 349 

Plums in Red Wine 19 342 

Pumpkin 33 845 

Quinces 31 345 

" in Cognac 32 345 



No. 

Quince Jelly 46 

' ' Juice 62 

Raspberries 2 

in Jelly 11 

Raspberry Jelly 39 

* ' Marmelade 50 

" Syrup 55 

' ' Wine 58 

Red Beets 72 

Rhubarb 81 

" Marmelade 82 

Roasted Almonds 103 

Rose Jelly 42 

Salted Almonds 104 

' ' Green Beans 70 

Salt Pickles No. 1 91 

" 2 92 

Sauerkraut 83 

Spiced Piclcles 96 

*' Green Tomatoes 109 

Stoned Sour Clierries 12 

Strawberries 1 

" in Jelly 10 

Strawberry Marmelade 38 

" Syrup 56 

Sugared Lemon and Orange 

Rind 100 

Sweet-Sour Sliced Cucumbers. .110 

Sweet Tomatoes 79 

To keep Red and White Cabbage 85 

Tomato Catsup 80 

* * Marmelade 77 

Truffles 90 

Tutti Frutti in Arrack 65 

Vinegar Pickles No. 1 93 

"2 94 

Wax Beans No. 1 67 

' 2 68 

Whole Tomatoes 75 

Wild Strawberry Wine 59 

Young Carrots 71 



SANDWICHES. 

Celery Sandwiches 2 

Chicken Sandwiches 4 

Corned Beef Sandwiches 8 

Egg Sandwiches 1 

6 

Olive Sandwiches 3 

Peanut Sandwiches 7 

"Veal Sandwiches 5 



Page. 
349 
352 
338 
340 
347 
349 
351 
351 
354 
356 
357 
362 
348 
363 
354 
359 
359 
357 
361 
364 
340 
338 
340 
347 
351 

362 
364 
356 
357 
356 
356 
359 
353 
360 
360 
353 
354 
355 
351 
354 



366 
366 
366 
366 
366 
366 
366 
366 



Chapter 24. 

THE MENU. 

Everyday Dinner 

Family Dinner 

Fine Dinner 

'* Supper 

Large Buffet 



369 
367 
368 
368 
369 



vu 

Chapter 25, Nos. 1 — 63. 

For Invalids, Convalescents, etc. 

No. Page. 

Apple Drink 62 385 

Baked Apples 44 381 

Barley Gruel 13 374 

'* Soup with Sweetbreads 

and Asparagus 15 375 

Barley Water 61 384 

Beaten Egg 46 381 

Yolks of Egg 47 381 

Beef Bouillon 3 372 

Tea 4 373 

" " with Cognac 5 373 

Bouillon of Game ^ 9 373 

Breast of Chicken with White 

Gravy 32 378 

Breast of Pigeon with White 

Gravy 33 379 

Breast of Partridge with Madeira 

Sauce 34 379 

Calf's Tongue 31 378 

Chicken Puree Soup 17 375 

Chocolate Cream with Red Wine 41 380 

Cream of Almonds as a Beverage 58 384 

Egg Foam 45 381 

Fig Sauce 50 382 

Fish Cutlet 37 379 

for Invalids 36 379 

Foam with Red Wine 48 382 

Fried Calf's Brain 30 378 

Fruit Soup 24 376 

Ice Cream 49 382 

Iron and Wine 54 383 

Lamb Bouillon 8 373 

Lung Tea with Malt Sugar ... 53 383 

MeatPureefor the Seriously 111. 27 377 

Milk Jelly 40 380 

' ' Lemonade 59 384 

Minced Meat, Veal or Lamb 

Steak 29 377 

Noodle or Grits Soups made of 

clear Bouillon 10 374 

Pearl Barley Soup 22 376 

Pigeon or Partridge Bouillon. .7 373 

" " " Puree Soup 19 375 

Plain Barley Gruel 16 375 

Soup for Invalids 20 376 

Poultry Bouillon 6 373 

Puree of Game Roast; for a 

severely ill patient 28 377 

Raw Ham with Egg 35 379 

Red Wine Soup 25 377 

Rhubarb Jelly 42 380 



-406 — 



No. Page. 

Eice Gruel 14 374 

' ' in Milk 39 380 

" with Bed Wine 43 381 

Roll Soup with Bouillon 12 374 

Ryebread Soup 23 376 

Ryeflour Soup and Milk Soup . 26 377 

Sago Soup with G-ame Bouillon 11 374 

Strong Beet Tea 1 372 

Tea from Medicinal Herbs ... 52 383 

Thin Rice Soup 21 376 

Toast and Water 60 384 

Veal Puree Soup 18 375 

Vegetables for Invalids 38 379 

Warm Milk with Cognac 56 383 

Water with Lemon Juice 63 385 

Weak Veal Bouillon 2 372 

Whey 55 383 

Yolk of Egg and Wine 57 384 

Zwieback (Sweet Toast) ....'. 51 382 



Chapter 26. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Page. 

Broiling 389 

Bums, Treatment of 386 

Carving Poultry in the Kitchen .... 387 
Comparative Table of Weights and 

Measures 391 

Flour 389 

Meat Carving 386 

Meats, Time Required for Broiling 

or Frying 387 

Meats, Time Required on the Stove 

or in the Oven 388 

Roasting 388 

Roasting in the Pan — Frying 388 

Roasting in the Oven 389 

Yeast 390 




— 407^ 



c^MEMORANDA. 



— 408 — 



c^EMORANDA 



— 409- 



cTHEMORANDA. 



—410— 



cTWEMORANDA. 



—411— 



c^MEMORANDA. 



-412- 



cTWEMORANDA. 



—413— 



c^^EMORANDA. 



—414— 



c^MEMORANDA. 



c^TVIEMORANDA. 



Just a Reminder. 

"Lina Meier's Genuine German Cooking 
and Baking," when first published, ap- 
peared in one volume, in English-German 
combined. 

To meet a great demand of the public, 
the publishers have decided to publish this, 
the second, revised and enlarged editions, 
in three different volumes: 

One in the English language, 
One in the German language. 
One in English-German combined. 

The books are all bound in full cloth and 
either one or all of the different editions 
can be secured at any time through book 
stores or from the publishers, by address- 
ing: 

WETZEL BROS. PRINTING CO., 
32^-328 Broadway, 

Milwaukee, Wis. 



% 



^ 



Just a Reminder. 

"Lina Meier's Genuine German Cooking 
and Baking," when first published, ap- 
peared in one volume, in English-German 
combined. 

To meet a great demand of the public, 
the publishers have decided to publish this, 
the second, revised and enlarged editions, 
in three different volumes: 

One in the English language, 
jj One in the German language. 

One in English-German combined. 

The books are all bound in full cloth and 
either one or all of the different editions 
can be secured at any time through book 
stores or from the publishers, by address- 
ing: 

WETZEL BROS. PRINTING CO., 
32i-328 Broadway, 

Milwaukee, Wis. 



