LIKE-MOTHERUSEDTO'MKE 

CHRISTINE  TERHUNE-  HERRICK 

DAUGHTER   OP 

nARION  MAINLAND 


ALBERT  R.  MANN  LIBRARY 
Cornell  University 

Gift  of 
Thomas  Bass 

a  ^^ 

From  Home  Bakings,  by  Edna  Evans 
San  Francisco,  1912. 

ORNELLUNiVcB^'^^' 


VAULT 

TX 

•715 

HS&5>c 

1912 


col 


COi 


Oi 

OOi 


00  = 
l>0| 

OOi 


The  original  of  tliis  book  is  in 
tlie  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924086682782 


LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE 


LIKE        MOTHER 
USED      TO      MAKE 

BY 
CHRISTINE  TERHUNE  HERRICK 

Author  of  Sunday  Night  Suppers,  The  Expert  Maid 
Servant,  The  Chafing  Dish  Supper,  etc.,  etc. 


BOSTON,    DANA     ESTES    & 
COMPANY,      PUBLISHERS 


n/2- 

Copyright,  igis 
By  Dana  Estes  &  Company. 

^//  rights  reserved 


Electrotypedand  Printed  by 
THE  COLONIAL  PRESS 
C.  H.  Simonds  &  Co.,  Boston,  U.  S.  A. 


TO 

M.  V.  V. 

THE  BEST  OF  COOKS,  THE  BEST  OF  HOUSEKEEPERS, 

THE  BEST  OF  MOTHERS, 

WITH  tOVE,  GRATITUDE,  ADMIRATION 


CONTENTS 


CH^P™  PAGE 

I    Breads  of  Various   Sorts i 

II    Oysters  and   Terrapin lo 

III  "Hog  and  Hominy" 23 

IV  Chicken  Cookery 34 

V    Salads  and  Vegetables 42 

VI    Southern    Sweet    Dishes 53 

VII    Pickling    and    Preserving 60 

VIII    Old-Time  Thanksgiving  Fare 68 

IX    Christmas  Cheer 74 

X    A  Few  Christmas  Candies 81 

XI    Easter    Dainties 90 

XII    Uncommon  Ways  to  Cook  Common  Vegetables  97 

XIII    Cooking  of  Dried  and  Smoked  Meats  and  Fish  108 


XIV  Hot  Weather  Suggestions    .     .     . 

XV  Hot   Weather   Recipes    .... 

XVI  System   in   Housekeeping    .     .     . 

XVII  Home-made  Aids  to  Housekeeping 

XVIII  Home  Dinners  Without  a  Servant 

XIX  Entertaining  Without   Service    . 

XX  The  Stag  Repast  Without  Service 

XXI  Home-made  Cakes  for  Afternoon  Tea 


116 
122 
130 
144 
158 
170 
181 
194 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USE  TO  MAKE" 

I 

BREADS  OF  VARIOUS  SORTS 

In  the  first  place  the  mother  did  not  make  all  the 
things  herself.  At  least,  my  mother  did  not,  ex- 
cept when  an  emergency  arose  in  the  kitchen.  But 
she  knew  how  it  all  ought  to  be  done,  and  when  a 
dish  came  to  the  table  and  was  not  what  it  should 
have  been  she  could  go  out  to  the  cook  afterwards 
and  tell  her  just  what  was  the  matter  and  how  the 
trouble  was  to  be  avoided  the  next  time.  If  the 
failure  occurred  again  she  would  make  the  dish  her- 
self and  let  the  cook  follow  her  movements  and  see 
what  had  caused  the  difficulty. 

There  were  certain  things  that  she  always  made 
with  her  own  hands  or  else  had  done  directly  under 
her  personal  supervision.  She  never  dreamed  of 
entrusting  pickling  or  preserving  to  the  unassisted 
efforts  of  Aunt  Lucindy  or  Mammy  Rachel  or  who- 
ever else  reigned  in  the  kitchen,  but  presided  over 
every  step  in  the  operations  until  the  finished  prod- 


2       "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

ucts  were  sealed,  marked  and  safely  stowed  in  the 
storeroom  under  lock  and  key. 

Likewise  she  made  or  superintended  the  sponge- 
cake and  the  pound-cake  and  the  mince-meat  and 
the  salad  and  the  syllabubs  and  the  calves'-foot  jelly 
and  like  dainties.  Even  if  she  did  not  compound 
personally  the  varieties  of  hot  bread  that  came  to 
the  table  she  knew  the  ins  and  outs  of  the  proc- 
esses from  start  to  finish, —  a  knowledge  eminently 
desirable  in  the  days  when  a  cook  might  "  get  her 
han'  out "  on  light  bread  for  a  month  at  a  time. 

Every  one  knows  the  reputation  of  the  Southern 
cook  for  "  hot  breads,"  as  they  call  them  down  in 
the  Old  Dominion.  Nowadays  digestions  are  con- 
sidered to  an  extent  which  prescribes  toast  and  cold 
bread  for  the  first  meal  of  the  day,  but  in  the  times 
"  befo'  de  wah," —  and  since  then,  too, —  it  was  a 
common  thing  to  have  four  or  five  varieties  of 
warm  bread  on  the  breakfast-table.  The  tall  loaf 
of  rolls,  muffins  or  beaten  biscuit  or  both,  batter 
bread,  "  egg  bread,"  Sally  Lunn,  waffles,  "  batter 
cakes!"  That  was  what  they  called  them, —  not 
"  griddle  cakes  "  or  "  pancakes."  We  ate  of  them 
all  as  though  there  were  no  gastronomic  hereafter! 

The  old  time  darky  cook  is  practically  extinct, 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"       3 

alas!  but  her  secrets  live  in  the  memory  of  the 
mothers  of  some  of  us,  and  should  be  put  into  con- 
crete form  for  the  benefit  of  all  daughters.  That, 
with  befitting  diffidence,  I  shall  try  to  do  in  this 
and  the  following  chapters. 

MOTHER'S  BREAD 

Boil  three  potatoes  and  mash  them  fine  while  hot. 
Work  into  them  a  tablespoonful  each  of  lard  and 
sugar  and  stir  in  a  pint  of  the  water  in  which  the 
potatoes  were  boiled.  This  should  be  lukewarm. 
Wet  up  a  pint  of  flour  with  a  little  of  the  potato 
water,  and  add  this  to  the  water,  sugar,  lard  and 
potatoes.  Whip  or  stir  until  the  batter  is  smooth 
— ■  with  no  lumps.  Then  add  half  a  cake  of  yeast, 
dissolved  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  warm  water  and 
a  pinch  of  soda.  (In  the  old  time  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  home-made  yeast  would  have  been  used.) 
Turn  into  a  deep  bowl  and  cover  and  set  to  rise 
over  night  in  a  warm  corner. 

Early  the  next  morning  sift  a  quart  of  dry  flour, 
slightly  scalded,  into  the  bread-tray  and  turn  the 
sponge  into  this,  and  with  the  hands  work  the  two 
together.  The  dough  should  be  just  as  soft  as  it 
can  be  molded,  and  can  be  stiffened  or  softened  by 


4      "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

the  addition  of  lukewarm  water  or  a  little  more 
flour.  Flour  the  hands  lightly  to  keep  them  from 
sticking.  When  you  can  make  the  dough  into  a 
ball,  lift  it  out  on  a  well-floured  board,  rinse  out  the 
bowl  in  which  it  was  mixed  with  a  little  warm 
water,  so  as  to  get  all  the  sponge,  and  work  this 
into  the  dough.  Knead  it  well  then,  from  the  out- 
side towards  the  center,  turning  the  ball  often. 
Twenty  minutes  is  none  too  much  to  give.  Put 
the  dough  back  into  the  bowl,  cover,  and  leave  in  a 
place  of  even  temperature.  It  should  rise  to  three 
times  its  original  size  and  will  take  from  four  to 
six  hours  in  the  process.  At  this  stage  knead  it 
again  for  five  or  six  minutes  and  make  into  loaves. 
Each  pan  should  be  about  half-full.  In  an  hour, 
if  the  pans  are  left  in  a  moderate  warmth,  the  bread 
will  have  risen  to  nearly  twice  its  original  size  and 
may  be  baked.  If  you  can  hold  your  bare  arm  in 
the  oven  while  you  count  thirty  the  heat  is  right. 
Keep  it  steady  during  the  hour  the  bread  takes  to 
bake.  If  the  top  crust  browns  too  quickly,  cover 
with  a  sheet  of  white  or  brown  wrapping  paper  un- 
til about  ten  minutes  before  the  loaf  is  done. 

BREAKFAST  ROLLS 

Mix  together  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  mixed 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "      5 

lard  and  butter  melted  with  one  quart  of  milk, 
slightly  warmed.  Add  a  couple  of  tablespoonfuls 
of  white  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a 
yeast-cake  dissolved  in  warm  water,  stir  in  enough 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  work  all  together  well 
and  set  to  rise  at  night.  In  the  morning,  knead 
thoroughly  and  make  up  into  rolls ;  set  these  closely 
together  in  a  tin, —  it  should  be  a  round  tin  to  be 
"  like  mother  used  to  make," —  let  them  rise  to 
twice  their  original  bulk,  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven. 

SALLY  LUNN 

Beat  four  eggs  stiflf,  add  to  them  half  a  cupful  of 
melted  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of 
soda,  a  cupful  of  warm  milk  and  a  cupful  of  warm 
water  in  which  has  been  dissolved  half  a  yeast-cake. 
Into  this  stir  four  cupfuls  of  flour,  beating  hard, 
and  set  to  rise  in  a  well-greased  tin.  Mother  used 
to  bake  it  in  a  pudding-dish  and  it  was  sent  to  table 
in  this,  but  it  looks  uncommonly  well  when  turned 
out  of  a  well-buttered  pan.  Cover  it  closely  and 
set  it  to  rise  for  from  six  to  eight  hours  —  the  latter 
if  it  is  kept  in  a  cool  place.  Bake  steadily  for  forty 
minutes,  keeping  it  covered  for  twenty-five  minutes. 
Eat  hot  with  butter  —  and  thank  Heaven  for  the 
gift  of  cooks. 


6      "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

RAISED  APPLE  BISCUIT 

Scald  a  cupful  of  milk,  put  into  it  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  set  aside  until  lukewarm.  Add  a  ta- 
blespoonful of  sugar  and  half  a  yeast-cake  dissolved 
in  warm  water.  Sift  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  a  cup- 
ful of  flour  and  stir  the  liquid  into  this.  Beat  into 
a  batter  and  set  aside  to  rise.  At  the  end  of  four 
hours  add  to  it  a  cupful  of  apple,  pared  and  grated, 
and  another  cupful  of  flour,  through  which  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  has  been  twice  sifted. 
Let  this  rise  an  hour  in  a  warm  place,  then  form 
into  round,  flat  cakes,  put  them  close  together  in  a 
pan,  let  them  rise  to  twice  their  bulk,  and  bake  in  a 
steady  oven.  Split  while  hot  and  eat  with  butter 
and  sugar. 

MOTHER'S  MUFFINS 

Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  lard 
and  put  with  a  quart  of  milk.  Add  two  beaten  eggs 
and  half  a  compressed  yeast-cake,  dissolved  in  warm 
water.  Stir  in  flour  to  make  a  rather  stiff  batter, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Set  to  rise  overnight 
and  in  the  morning  turn  int6  muffin-tins,  let 
them  rise  twenty  minutes  in  a  warm  corner  and 
bake. 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "      7 

EGG  MUFFINS 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs  separ- 
ately and  very  stiff.  Add  three  cupfuls  of  milk  and 
a  quart  of  flour.  Beat  very  hard,  and  bake  in 
greased  and  warmed  muffin-tins, 

HOME  MUFFINS 

Make  a  batter  of  four  cupfuls  of  milk,  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  of  butter,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  half  a  yeast-cake  dissolved  in  warm 
water,  and  flour.  Let  this  rise  overnight.  In  the 
morning  whip  in  four  eggs.  Bake  about  twenty 
minutes. 

RISEN  WAFFLES 

Mix  a  quart  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  quart  of  flour 
and  half  a  yeast-cake  overnight.  Let  them  rise  un- 
til morning,  add  two  beaten  eggs  and  bake  in  a  reg- 
ulation waffle-iron. 

MOTHER'S  WAFFLES 

Sift  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  into  three  cupfuls  of 
flour.  Put  together  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter  and  two  well-beaten  eggs. 


8      "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

Add  the  flour  and  beat  light,  putting  in  a  little  more 
milk  if  the  batter  is  too  stiff  to  pour  easily.  Bake 
in  waffle-irons. 

RICE  WAFFLES 

To  one  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice  add  half  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  two  eggs  whipped  light,  and  flour  to  make 
a  thin  batter.  Beat  all  the  ingredients  well  to- 
gether, and  bake  as  you  would  other  waffles,  taking 
pains  to  grease  the  irons  very  thoroughly,  so  that 
the  rice  may  not  stick. 

RAISED  BUCKWHEAT  CAKES 

To  four  cupfuls  of  buckwheat  flour  add  one  cup- 
ful of  corn  meal  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  thick  molasses,  half  a  cake  of  yeast 
dissolved,  and  warm  water  enough  to  make  a  thin 
batter.  After  beating  it  thoroughly  set  in  a  warm 
place  overnight.  Sometimes  the  batter  has  the 
least  sour  taste  in  the  morning  which  can  be  rem- 
edied by  the  addition  of  a  pinch  of  soda  dissolved  in 
hot  water. 

CORN-MEAL  CAKES 

Four  cupfuls  of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "      9 

a  yeast-cake  and  flour  for  a  batter  should  be  put 
together  overnight  and  left  to  rise.  In  the  morn- 
ing a  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted,  and  two  eggs, 
should  be  added  to  it.  For  some  reason  I  have 
never  understood,  these  were  sometimes  called 
"  flannel  cakes " —  perhaps  because  they  were 
warming  in  their  effect ! 

BREAD-AND-MILK  CAKES 

Two  cupfuls  of  stale  bread  crumbs  worked 
smooth  with  four  cupfuls  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful 
of  melted  butter,  three  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  just  enough  flour  to  bind  the  mixture.  More 
milk  can  be  added  if  the  batter  is  too  thick.  Bake 
on  a  very  well-greased  griddle. 

BEATEN  BISCUIT 

Work  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  into  three  cupfuls 
of  flour,  to  which  has  been  added  a  scant  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt.  Stir  into  this  milk  and  water  in  equal 
parts  to  make  a  stiff  dough  —  as  stiff  as  can  be  han- 
dled. Lay  this  on  a  block  of  wood  and  beat  stead- 
ily fifteen  minutfes  with  rolling-pin  or  with  the  flat 
side  of  a  hatchet.  Cut  into  round  cakes,  prick  on 
top  and  bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven. 


II 

Oysters  and  Terrapin 

Show  me  the  man  or  woman  of  Virginia  birth  or 
breeding  who  believes  it  is  possible  to  get  as  good 
oysters  at  the  North  as  you  can  find  at  the  South! 
In  vain  may  you  dilate  upon  the  merits  of  Shrews- 
burys  or  Blue  Points  or  Buzzard's  Bay  oysters. 
Arguments  and  proofs  go  for  naught.  At  the  end 
of  the  discussion  the  reply  will  match  the  statement 
made  at  the  beginning :  "  There  are  no  oysters  I 
have  ever  eaten  equal  to  York  River  and  Chesa- 
peake Bay  oysters."  And  there  is  likely  to  be  the 
further  statement,  "They  don't  know  how  to  cook 
them  up  North  as  they  do  down  home."  In  other 
words,  they  don't  taste  "  like  mother  used  to  make." 

I  do  not  hold  a  brief  for  the  Virginia  oysters, 
although  it  is  my  own  private  opinion  that  there 
are  no  others  like  them!  But  I  do  know  that  the 
Northern  and  Southern  ways  of  cooking  them  are 
entirely  different  and  to  make  them  taste  as  they 
should  to  me  you  must  either  have  a  Southern  cook 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     ii 

at  the  stove  or  mother  or  mother's  directions  to 
guide  you. 

How  I  recollect  Virginia  oysters  and  Virginia 
cookery  thereof  since  my  childhood, —  stewed  oys- 
ters, fried  oysters,  roast  oysters,  scalloped  oysters, 
broiled  oysters,  pickled  oysters !  There  was  no  talk 
in  that  time  of  "  milk  stew  "  and  "  water  stew." 
Oysters  were  just  stewed,  that  was  all.  Of  course 
they  had  milk  with  them.  Mother  would  not  have 
thought  of  stewing  them  without  milk  — >  or  cream. 
And  broiled  oysters  were  not  smothered  in  batter, 
either,  nor  was  batter  used  in  cooking  fried  oysters. 
It  would  have  seemed  an-  outrage.  But  now  I  have 
to  go  all  the  way  to  Virginia  to  get  real  fried  oys- 
ters,—  and  I  am  told  that  even  in  the  Old  Dominion 
are  to  be  found  cooks  who  have  forsaken  old  cus- 
toms and  fry  their  oysters  in  a  coating  of  batter. 

Terrapin  was  not  so  everyday  an  affair  as  oys- 
ters, by  any  means,  but  the  "  diamond  backs  "  were 
plenty  in  the  low  grounds  along  the  James  River 
and  no  one  could  consider  herself  an  experienced 
cook  who  did  not  know  one  or  two  ways  in  which 
to  prepare  it. 

STEWED  OYSTERS 

Not  oyster  stew,  if  you  please!     It  was  never 


12     "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

called  that  in  the  old  times  and  I  don't  believe  it  has 
that  name  applied  to  it  at  the  South  even  now,  ex- 
cept by  outsiders. 

Add  a  half  pint  of  hot  water  to  the  liquor  drained 
from  two  quarts  of  oysters.  Put  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  with  it,  set  over  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  up 
once.  Turn  in  the  oysters  and  let  them  cook  for 
not  more  than  five  minutes  or  until  the  gills  begin 
to  crimp.  Watch  carefully  for  this  stage,  as  every 
second  beyond  it  means  injury  to  the  flavor  of  the 
oyster.  Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a 
large  cupful  of  boiling  milk.  Take  from  the  fire 
immediately  and  serve  as  soon  as  possible.  Never 
let  them  stand  at  the  back  of  the  stove  and  keep 
warm  unless  you  prefer  them  tough  and  tasteless. 

FRIED  OYSTERS 

For  this  you  must  select  fine  large  oysters  and 
have  them  nearly  uniform  in  size.  Discrepancies 
in  dimensions  may  be  permitted  with  stewed  oys- 
ters that  could  not  be  tolerated  with  the  fried  bi- 
valves. Drain  them  from  the  liquor  and  lay  them 
on  a  soft  cloth  to  dry,  pressing  them  lightly  with 
another  to  remove  all  the  moisture  possible. 

Roll  each  oyster  in  fine  cracker  crumbs,  coating 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     13 

it  fully  and  lay  them  carefully  in  the  frying  pan, 
where  there  should  be  enough  good  butter,  boiling 
hot,  to  immerse  the  oysters.  Fry  quickly  to  a  deli- 
cate brown  and  take  at  once  from  the  pan,  with  a 
fork  or  a  split  spoon  and  lay  on  a  hot  plate.  These 
too  should  be  eaten  promptly,  although  they  are  not 
as  irretrievably  spoiled  by  standing  as  is  the  stewed 
oyster.     Pass  sliced  lemon  with  fried  oysters. 

BROILED  OYSTERS 

For  these  too  you  must  select  large  oysters,  as 
you  would  if  you  were  to  fry  them.  Wipe  them, 
dry  as  you  would  the  oysters  for  frying,  sprinkle 
salt  and  pepper  lightly  upon  them  and  broil  them  on 
a  small  gridiron  which  has  the  bars  close  together. 
Special  oyster  broilers  are  made.  If  you  cook  them 
over  the  fire  be  careful  they  do  not  smoke  if  any  of 
the  drippings  from  them  catch  fire.  Cook  quickly 
and  after  you  have  laid  them  on  a  hot  plate  put  a 
bit  of  butter  on  each  one. 

PANNED  OYSTERS 

For  this  we  had  special  small  pans  at  home,  made 
to  order  and  of  a  size  to  accommodate  six  or  eight 
good  sized  oysters  comfortably.     You  can,  how- 


14    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

ever,  use  nappies  of  the  right  size  or  small  casse- 
roles, a  little  deeper  than  those  sold  for  cooking 
shirred  eggs.  Cut  a  round  of  bread  to  fit  the  bot- 
tom of  your  pan,  trimming  oflf  the  crust.  Toast 
and  lay  in  the  pan  and  moisten  with  a  little  oyster 
liquor.  Lay  the  oysters  on  the  toast,  sprinkle 
lightly  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put  over  the  oys- 
ters half  a  dozen  bits  of  butter.  Set  the  pans 
in  an  oven  of  steady  heat  and  cook  until  the  oysters 
"  rufHe  "  or  crimp,  take  from  the  fire  and  serve  at 
once  in  the  pans  in  which  they  are  cooked.  Pass 
lemon  with  these.  They  are  an  excellent  supper 
or  luncheon  dish. 

ROAST  OYSTERS 

Have  the  shell  oysters  carefully  washed.  If  you 
have  a  coal  stove  you  may  roast  them  on  the  top  or 
in  the  oven  as  you  choose,  but  if  you  cook  by  gas, 
the  oven  will  have  to  be  used.  In  either  case  they 
will  declare  when  they  are  done  by  opening.  Pile 
on  a  large  dish,  taking  care  not  to  turn  them  on  one 
side  lest  the  juice  run  out.  It  takes  a  stout  knife 
and  some  dexterity  to  open  them  entirely  without 
spilling  the  liquor.  Season  as  you  eat  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter.     Those  who  shrink   from  the 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     15 

"messiness"  of  opening  the  cooked  oysters  may 
have  the  work  done  while  they  are  raw  by  a  pro- 
fessional hand  and  may  then  set  the  opened  oysters 
in  the  lower  shell  in  a  baking  pan  and  put  these  into 
the  oven  to  bake  in  their  own  liquor,  serving  them 
in  the  shell  as  soon  as  they  are  done.  In  either 
case  have  a  big  platter  of  thin  brown  and  white 
bread  and  butter  to  eat  with  the  oysters. 

VIRGINIA  CREAMED  OYSTERS 

Down  on  the  Eastern  Shore  they  have  big  clam 
shells, —  at  least,  I  suppose  they  are  clam  shells,  for 
they  are  broad  and  shaped  like  a  clam  shell,  al- 
though much  larger  than  those  we  usually  see, — 
and  in  these  the  oysters  should  be  creamed  if  one 
would  compass  perfection  in  this  dish.  In  default 
of  these  shells,  however,  one  may  use  nappies  or 
ramequins.  Lay  three  or  four  oysters  in  each 
nappy  or  shell.  Have  ready  a  sauce  made  by  cook- 
ing together  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  and 
flour  until  they  bubble  and  pouring  on  them  than  a 
cup  of  oyster  liquor  and  one  of  cream, —  add  a  tiny 
pinch  of  baking  soda  to  the  cream, —  and  stir  over 
the  fire  in  a  double  boiler  until  you  have  a  thick 
smooth  sauce.     Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  white 


1 6    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "      / 

. i, 

i 

pepper,  beat  up  hard  once  and  pour  over  the  oyg'- 
ters  in  the  shells  or  the  nappies.  Set  in  the  oveji, 
and  after  the  shells  or  dishes  are  hot  bake  for  ab(^ut 
five  minutes.  Serve  in  the  dishes  in  which  they  are 
cooked. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS.     NO.  i 

Butter  a  pudding  dish  and  cover  the  bottom  of  it 
with  a  layer  of  crushed  cracker  crumbs  and  moisten 
them  with  oyster  liquor  and  a  little  milk.  On  this 
put  a  layer  of  oysters,  dotting  it  with  bits  of  butter 
and  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  these 
with  another  layer' of  crumbs,  repeat  that  of  the 
oysters,  continuing  in  this  order  until  the  dish  is  full 
and  making  the  top  layer  of  crumbs.  Strew  thickly 
with  bits  of  butter,  bake  covered  for  twenty  min- 
utes and  brown. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS.     NO.  2 

Make  a  cream  sauce  by  cooking  together  a  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  of  flour  and  two  of  butter  until 
smooth  and  then  adding  to  them  a  cupful  of  cream 
or  rich  milk  and  a  half  cupful  of  the  oyster  liquor. 
Stir  until  it  thickens,  put  at  the  side  of  the  stove, 
add  a  beaten  egg,  the  raw  oysters,  and  salt  and  white 
pepper  to  season  sufficiently.     Turn  into  a  greased 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     17 

pudding  dish,  strew  crumbs  thickly  over  the  top, 
dot  with  flakes  of  butter,  put  in  the  oven  and  brown. 
As  all  the  ingredients  are  hot, —  except  the  oysters 
and  crumbs, — 1  ten  or  twelve  minutes  in  a  good  oven 
will  be  enough  to  cook  the  oysters  and  to  brown  the 
crumbs. 

OYSTER  PIE 
In  the  old  time  a  shallow  pudding  dish  was  lined 
with  good  puff  paste,  filled  with  crusts  of  bread, 
these  covered  with  a  top  of  the  paste  and  baked. 
The  edges  of  the  dish  were  well  buttered  so  that 
the  crust  would  not  adhere  to  them  too  closely  and 
when  the  pastry  was  baked  this  top  was  lifted  off 
carefully,  the  bread  crusts  removed  and  in  their 
place  were  put  oysters,  prepared  just  as  for  oyster 
scallop  in  the  preceding  recipe,  except  that  the  oys- 
ters were  allowed  to  cook  in  the  sauce  for  three 
minutes  after  they  went  in.  Then  the  crust  was 
laid  back  on  the  dish  and  the  whole  sent  to  table. 
The  argument  against  lining  the  pie  dish  with  raw 
paste,  putting  in  the  uncooked  oysters  and  baking 
all  together  was  that  by  the  time  the  paste  was  ready 
to  eat  the  oysters  were  overdone  and  insipid. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS 

Make  a  thin  batter  of  flour,  two  beaten  eggs  and 


i8    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO'  MAKE  " 

equal  quantities  of  milk  and  oyster  liquor,  adding! 
a  little  salt.  The  batter  should  be  just  thick  enougW 
to  mask  the  back  of  a  spoon.  Chop  oysters  fine/ 
in  the  proportion  of  two  cups  of  the  oysters  to  one 
of  the  batter,  stir  the  oysters  into  the  batter  and 
drop  it  by  the  spoonful  into  deep  boiling  fat.  Do 
not  have  less  than  a  pound  of  lard  in  your  frying 
pan  and  try  one  fritter  first  to  see  if  the  heat  is 
right.  The  fritter  should  not  take  more  than  two 
minutes  to  cook  and  should  not  be  too  brown. 
Move  a  little  away  from  the  fiercest  heat  of  the 
stove,  so  that  the  inside  of  the  fritter  may  have  a 
chance  to  cook  before  the  outside  is  over  brown. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS 

Put  two  quarts  of  stewing  oysters  over  the  fire 
in  their  own  liquor  and  leave  them  there  until  just 
before  the  liquor  comes  to  a  boil.  Take  them  off 
and  put  to  one  side  to  cool,  removing  the  oysters 
from  the  liquor  with  a  strainer.  Put  the  liquor  back 
on  the  stove  with  a  cupful  of  white  vinegar,  twelve 
whole  cloves  and  as  many  whole  black  peppers, 
half  a  dozen  blades  of  mace  and  a  red  pepper  broken 
into  small  pieces.  Boil  up  well  and  turn  over  the 
oysters.     Cover  and  set  aside.     If  you  wish  to  keep 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     19 

them  for  more  than  a  day  or  two  put  them  into 
glass  jars  with  screw  tops  and  set  in  a  cool  dark 
place.  Exposure  to  the  light  changes  their  color. 
They  will  keep  for  a  week  or  so  but  to  my  mind 
are  at  their  best  two  or  three  days  after  they  have 
been  pickled. 

These  are  excellent  for  late  suppers  or  for  cold 
collations  and  will  probably  be  welcomed  by  those 
who  are  tired  of  endless  salads  and  sandwiches. 

TERRAPIN.     NO.  i 

Plunge  the  terrapin  head  downwards  into  boiling 
water,  as  you  would  a  live  lobster,  and  let  him  cook 
until  the  meat  begins  to  loosen  from  the  skin.  Take 
the  terrapin  from  the  water,  let  him  drain  until  cool 
enough  to  handle  and  then  remove  from  the  shell, 
taking  great  pains  not  to  break  the  gall,  as  the  least 
particle  of  this  would  ruin  the  meat.  Remove  the 
gall  and  entrails.  All  the  rest  of  the  terrapin  is 
eatable. 

Cut  him  up  into  small  pieces.  Keep  the  juice 
that  runs  from  the  meat,  put  with  it  a  tablespoon  ful 
of  currant  jelly,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a 
wJneglassful  of  sherry  and  two  wineglassfuls  of 
port,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a 


20    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

pinch  of  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste.  Stew  all  to- 
gether for  fifteen  minutes,  put  in  the  terrapin  and 
cook  for  ten  minutes  longer.  At  the  last  add  a  cup- 
ful of  rich  cream,  boil  up  once  and  serve. 

TERRAPIN.     NO.  2 

Prepare  the  live  terrapin  as  already  directed  and 
cut  up  into  small  pieces.  Stew  the  juice  with  the 
meat  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  to  it  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  one  of  browned  flour, 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  and  last  stir  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg, 
taking  care  that  it  does  not  curdle.  Boil  up  once 
and  serve. 

TERRAPIN.     NO.  3 

After  taking  the  terrapin  from  the  shell  and  cut- 
ting it  up  put  it  into  a  saucepan  and  cover  closely. 
Simmer  fifteen  minutes.  Rub  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  and  the  yolks  of  six  hard  boiled  eggs  to 
a  smooth  paste.  Have  ready  in  another  saucepan  a 
cupful  of  cream  to  which  has  been  added  a  wee 
pinch  of  soda  and  work  this  into  the  egg  and  butter 
paste,  a  little  at  a  time.  Season  to  taste  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  add  the  sauce  to  the  hot  terrapin. 
Cook  two  minutes,  add  a  gill  of  sherry  and  serve. 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    21 

TERRAPIN  IN  CHAFING  DISH 

Cut  up  the  cooked  meat  and  put  into  the  double 
boiler  of  a  chafing  dish  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Cover  and  al- 
low it  to  simmer  for  ten  minutes.  At  the  last  mo- 
ment, you  may,  if  you  wish,  add  a  couple  of  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sherry,  but  you  get  the  flavor  of  the 
terrapin  better  without  it. 

"CHAD'S"  TERRAPIN 

I  cannot  in  this  connection  refrain  from  quoting 
from  that  delightful  book,  "  Colonel  Carter  of  Car- 
ter sville,"  the  directions  given  by  the  old  negro  cook 
Chad  for  the  proper  enjoyment  of  terrapin.  He 
had  removed  the  upper  shell  from  the  terrapin  to 
serve  as  a  dish  for  the  Major's  meal. 

"  Tar 'pin  jes  like  a  crab.  Major,  on'y  got  mo' 
meat  to  'em.  But  you  got  to  know  'em.  Now  dis 
yer  shell  is  de  hot  plate,  an'  you  do  all  yo'  eatin' 
right  inside  it,"  said  Chad,  dropping  a  spoonful  of 
butter,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  pinch  of  salt  into 
the  impromptu  dish. 

"  Now,  Major,  take  yo'  fork  an'  pick  out  all  dat 
black  meat  an'  dip  it  in  de  sauce,  an'  wid  ebery 


22     "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

mou'ful  take  one  o'  dem  little  yaller  eggs.  Dat's 
de  way  we  eat  tar'pin.  Dis  yer  stewin'  him  up  in 
pote  wine  is  scan'lous.  Can't  taste  nuffin  but  de 
wine.     But  dat's  tar'pin." 


Ill 


"Hog  and  Hominy" 

The  phrase  "  hog  and  hominy "  has  been  em- 
ployed more  or  less  in  contempt  by  those  who  do 
not  know  how  wide  a  scope  the  two  words  may 
possess.  To  the  Southerner,  who  includes  spare- 
rib,  shoat,  sausage,  chine,  ham — 'boiled,  baked  or 
barbecued  —  and  like  dainties  under  "  hog,"  and 
who  knows  that  batter  bread,  egg  bread,  corn 
bread,  com  pone,  johnny-cake,  ash-cake  and  a  va- 
riety of  griddle-cakes  "  like  mother  used  to  make  " 
are  among  the  products  rather  scornfully  summed 
up  as  "  hominy,"  the  classification  is  a  synonym  for 
savory  and  appetizing  food  combinations  little 
known  north  of  Mason  and  Dixon's  line. 

In  point  of  fact,  it  was  impossible  in  the  old  times 
to  get  most  of  these  dishes  at  the  North.  For  one 
thing,  they  do  not  cut  pork  at  the  North  as  they 
do  at  the  South.  The  chine,  instead  of  being 
cut  as  a  saddle  of  mutton  would  be,  is  split 
lengthwise.     All  the  meat,  except  one  thin  layer,  is 

23 


24    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

taken  from  the  inside  of  the  sparerib  for  bacon, — 
although  I  am  told  that  in  what  is  called  "  country 
sparerib "  this  is  not  done.  This  cut  is  seldom 
found  in  city  markets,  however,  and  the  sparerib, 
as  usually  sold,  is  a  poor,  dry  thing.  Still,  in  some 
places  it  may  yet  be  possible  to  find  the  old-fash- 
ioned chine  and  sparerib. 

In  the  former  days  it  was  also  out  of  the  question 
to  buy  the  Southern  meal  at  the  North,  and  the 
products  of  the  two  sections  are  entirely  different. 
I  have  heard  the  yellow  corn-meal  described  by 
Southern  housekeepers  as  "  chicken  feed,"  and  I 
have  known  a  few  Northerners  who  cared  little  for 
the  fruit  of  the  Virginia  mills  and  kitchen.  To 
the  Virginia  "  raised  "  child  or  the  one  who  is  for- 
tunate enough  to  have  had  Virginia  cookery  in  her 
home  there  are  no  hot  breads  quite  likfe  those  with 
the  corn-meal  foundation. 

To-day  it  is  possible  to  obtain  the  Southern  meal 
at  the  North  and  the  gospel  of  batter  bread  is 
spreading. 

ROAST  CHINE 

Although  you  cannot  generally  find  the  whole 
chine  in  the  Northern  markets,  you  can  purchase  a 
fair  substitute  in  half  a  chine.     The  spine  has  been 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     25 

split  and  the  cut  has  a  one-sided  look,  but  it  makes 
an  excellent  roast.  Lay  the  meat  in  your  baking- 
pan,  brush  it  over  with  raw  egg  and  strew  thickly 
with  cracker-crumbs,  which  you  have  seasoned  well 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  bake  in  a  good  hot  oven. 
When  the  meat  is  heated  through,  baste  it  with  but- 
ter and  water.  The  basting  after  that,  which 
should  be  tolerably  frequent,  may  be  done  with  the 
gravy  from  the  meat.  After  you  take  up  the  meat, 
set  the  gravy  in  cold  water  and  remove  the  fat 
which  rises  to  the  top.  Thicken  the  gravy  which  is 
left  with  browned  flour,  boil  up  once,  season  with 
catsup  or  Worcestershire  sauce  and  send  to  the 
table  in  a  gravy  boat. 

ROAST  SPARERIB 

It  may  be  possible,  in  some  market  where  they 
cut  their  own  pork,  to  secure  a  sparerib  from  which 
most  of  the  meat  on  the  inside  has  not  been  re- 
moved. If  so,  this  recipe  is  worth  trying.  Cover 
the  meat  closely  until  it  is  about  half  done,  then  un- 
cover and  dredge  with  flour.  Baste  it  often,  the 
first  time  with  butter  and  water,  and  after  that  with 
its  own  gravy.  Five  minutes  before  taking  it  out 
strew  it  thickly  with  fine  bread-crumbs,  to  which 


26    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE^ 


you  have  added  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  minced  very 
fine,  salt,  pepper  and  a  very  little  powdered  sage. 
Let  the  meat  cook  five  minutes  longer,  basting  again 
with  butter.  Proceed  with  the  gravy  as  directed  in 
the  recipe  for  roast  chine.  Both  with  chine  and 
sparerib  it  is  well  to  have  the  butcher  cut  the  joints 
before  it  is  sent  home,  as  this  will  simplify  carving. 

BOILED  HAM 

Put  the  ham  to  soak  over  night  in  cold  water  and 
in  the  morning  wash  and  scrub  it  well.  Put  it 
over  the  fire  in  plenty  of  cold  water  to  cover  it,  and 
let  it  boil  slowly  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound.  It 
is  a  mistake  to  buy  too  large  a  ham,  as  the  smaller 
hams  usually  come  from  younger  pork. 

The  best  grade  of  Virginia  hams  are  those  which 
come  from  the  county  of  Smithfield,  where  the  pigs 
are  fattened  upon  peanuts.  The  printed  directions 
sent  out  with  these  hams  by  one  firm  which  makes 
a  specialty  of  them  order  that  the  ham  shall  be  put 
into  cold  water  with  the  skin  side  downwards,  and 
that  when  it  is  cooked  enough  the  ham  will  turn 
over  of  its  own  accord.  Of  course  this  sounds  in- 
credible, and  savors  a  bit- of  the  black  art, —  but  the 
prediction  comes  true !  At  the  time  when  it  should 
be  taken  from  the  fire  the  ham  does  turn  over  in  the 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     27 

water.  I  have  never  tried  this  with  any  ham  but 
the  Smithfield,  but  I  dare  say  the  same  plan  would 
work  in  the  same  way  with  pork  that  was  not  pea- 
nut-fed ! 

Let  the  ham  get  cold  in  the  water  and  then  re- 
move the  skin.  If  you  choose  you  can  send  it  to 
table,  "  naked,"  as  I  have  heard  one  housekeeper 
describe  hams  served  with  the  fat  uncovered,  or 
you  may  brush  it  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  cover  it 
with  a  crust  made  by  working  cracker-crumbs  into 
a  thick  paste  with  milk  or  cream  and  a  little  melted 
butter.  This  should  be  spread  over  the  ham 
smoothly  in  a  coating  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  the  crust  then  lightly  browned  in  the 
oven. 

BARBECUED  HAM 

Cut  rather  thick  slices  of  cold  boiled  ham  and 
lay  them  in  a  frying-pan.  Cook  on  both  sides  un- 
til they  begin  to  crisp  at  the  edges  and  then  put  on  a 
hot  dish.  Add  to  the  fat  in  the  pan  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  saltspoonful  of  English 
mustard,  a  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar  and  a  few 
dashes  of  black  pepper.  Boil  up  once,  pour  over 
the  ham,  let  it  stand  covered  for  a  couple  of  minutes 


28     "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

and  send  to  the  table.  There  is  no  more  savory 
method  of  cooking  ham  than  this,  and  it  wins  al- 
most universal  approbation. 

BACON  AND  APPLES 

Have  the  bacon  cut  very  thin,  lay  it  in  a  hot  pan 
and  fry  it  quickly  in  its  own  fat.  Keep  it  hot  on 
a  plate  after  taking  it  up,  and  fry  in  the  fat  left  in 
the  pan  thick  slices  of  cored  but  unpeeled  apples. 
When  cooked  tender,  serve  in  the  dish  with  the 
bacon,  the  latter  laid  about  the  edge  of  the  platter. 
If  the  apples  are  very  tart  sprinkle  a  little  granu- 
lated sugar  upon  them  just  before  taking  them  from 
the  pan.  Sweet  or  semi-sweet  apples  are  best  for 
this  dish. 

PORK  POTPIE 

Use  lean  pork  for  this,  that  from  the  chine  by 
preference,  and  have  the  bones  well  cracked. 
Choose  a  wide  pot,  grease  it  thoroughly  that  the 
crust  may  not  stick,  and  line  it  with  a  good  plain 
paste.  Parboil  and  slice  potatoes;  put  a  layer  of 
pork  in  the  pot  on  the  paste,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes. 
Season  each  layer  judiciously  with  pepper  and  salt. 
When  the  materials  are  all  used,  pour  a  quart  of 
cold  water  into  the  pot,  lay  a  round  of  paste  over 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     29 

the  top,  leaving  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  round 
through  which  more  water  may  be  added  if  the 
gravy  cooks  away  too  rapidly.  If  you  desire 
dumplings  you  can  mingle  small  squares  and  strips 
of  the  paste  with  the  meat  and  potatoes.  Cover 
the  pot  and  boil  slowly  for  two  hours.  At  the  end 
of  the  time  take  off  the  crust,  pour  the  meat  and 
gravy  into  another  dish  and  remove  the  lower  crust 
carefully.  Put  this  on  a  hot  platter,  arrange  the 
meat  and  potatoes  upon  it  and  pour  the  gravy  over 
all,  last  putting  on  the  top  crust.  This  may  have 
been  browned  by  laying  it  on  the  top  grating  of  the 
oven  while  dishing  the  meat  and  the  lower  crust. 

ROAST  PIG 

Almost  always  one  may  procure  a  small  pig  by 
ordering  it  in  advance  from  a  butcher,  who  will 
clean  and  prepare  and  deliver  it  ready  for  stuffing. 
The  roasting  pig  should  never  be  more  than  a  month 
or  six  weeks  old. 

The  dressing  may  be  made  by  seasoning  a  cupful 
of  dry  bread-crumbs  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sage,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  and 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter.     Mix  all  well 


30    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

together  and  add  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Stuff  the 
pig,  doing  your  best  to  give  him  his  original  figure. 
Sew  up  the  opening  by  which  the  dressing  went  in 
and  truss  him  for  cooking,  tucking  his  fore  legs 
under  him  bent  backward,  and  his  hind  legs  drawn 
forward.  Skewer  and  bind  them  in  place.  Wipe 
the  pig  off,  dredge  him  well  with  flour  and  put  him 
in  the  dripping-pan  with  a  little  hot  water  poured 
about  him.  Baste  him  three  or  four  times  with 
butter  and  water  and  afterwards  with  the  gravy. 
When  the  skin  shows  signs  of  beginning  to  brown 
rub  him  over  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  melted  butter 
and  repeat  this  process  every  five  or  ten  minutes 
in  order  to  keep  the  skin  tender.  Your  pig  will 
require  about  two  hours  in  a  steady  oven  and  the 
skin,  when  done,  should  be  crisp  "  crackling." 

"  The  first  one  of  these  weaklings  and  flowers  " 
—  to  quote  Charles  Lamb  — "  that  I  ever  saw  was 
at  my  grandfather's  when  I  was  a  small  child;  and 
to  this  day  I  recall  the  impression  he  made  as  he 
lay  in  his  bed  of  parsley,  cranberries  for  eyes  and  a 
lemon  in  his  mouth." 

For  a  gravy  you  can  skim  the  dripping  in  the  pan, 
thicken  with  browned  flour  and  season  with  cat- 
sup, lemon  juice  and  wine.     But,  to  my  mind,  he 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     31 

is  better  cold  than  hot,  and  he  is  good  as  long  as 
there  is  a  bit  of  him  left ! 

JOHNNY-CAKE 

Mix  a  teacupful  of  sweet  milk  with  one  of  sour 
or  buttermilk,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  Stir  into  this 
enough  corn-meal  to  make  a  soft  dough  which  can 
be  handled.  Roll  it  out  in  a  sheet  about  half  an  inch 
thick  and  lay  in  a  biscuit-tin.  Bake  in  a  rather  slow 
oven  for  forty  minutes,  brushing  it  over  frequently 
with  a  bit  of  cloth  dipped  in  melted  butter.  This 
should  be  done  four  or  five  times  after  the  bread 
begins  to  brown. 

In  the  old  days  this  bread  was  baked  on  a  hard- 
wood plank  in  front  of  the  open  fire.  The  board 
was  tipped  up  at  such  an  angle  that  the  full  heat 
was  secured,  but  not  far  enough  to  permit  the  dough 
to  slip  off.  The  basting  with  butter  was  performed 
so  frequently  that  the  bread  when  done  was  deli- 
ciously  crisp. 

VIRGINIA  CORN  PONE 

Stir  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
melted   lard   into   a   quart  of   corn-meal   and  add 


32    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     / 

/ 

enough  cold  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Shape 
with  the  hands  into  oblong  rolls  like  little  loaves  and 
bake  quickly  in  a  well-greased  pan.  Serve  hot, 
break  open  and  eat  with  butter. 

BATTER-BREAD 

Sift  two  cups  Southern  corn-meal  —  that  in  com- 
mon use  at  the  North  will  not  answer  at  all  —  stir 
into  it  a  good  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  work  into  it 
a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  Beat  two  eggs 
light,  put  with  them  a  quart  of  milk,  stir  in  the  meal 
and  bake  in  well-greased  tin  pie  plates.  The  bread 
is  cut  into  triangles,  split  open  and  buttered  and 
eaten  very  hot.  It  may  also  be  baked  in  muffin- 
tins,  but  the  genuine  Virginia  batter-bread  of  my 
childhood  was  always  baked  in  the  shallow  pie 
dishes. 

EGG  BREAD 

Beat  three  eggs  light  and  add  to  three  cups  of 
milk,  stir  into  this  two  cups  of  the  Southern  water- 
ground  corn-meal,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tiny  pinch 
of  soda,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and  a  cup^ 
ful  of  well-boiled  cold  rice.  Whip  all  together  for 
two  or  three  minutes  and  bake  like  the  batter-bread. 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     33 

RAISED  CORNBREAD 

Dissolve  a  yeast-cake  in  a  pint  of  lukewarm 
water.  Measure  three  pints  of  Southern  corn- 
meal,  add  to  this  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter  and  stir  into  it  the  warm 
water  in  which  the  yeast-cake  has  been  dissolved. 
Turn  into  a  greased  baking-tin,  set  to  rise  overnight 
and  in  the  morning  bake,  covering  it  until  done 
through  and  then  uncovering  to  brown. 

Or  you  may  set  the  dough  in  a  bowl  overnight 
and  the  next  morning  bake  in  muffin-tins. 


IV 
Chicken  Cookery 

Poultry  was  no  special  treat  in  the  Old  Domin- 
ion, but  was  rather  a  staff  of  life.  "  Butchers' 
meat,"  so-called,  was  not  always  attainable,  but  the 
chicken  supply  was  plentiful  and  cheap;  you  could 
buy  a  pair  of  roasting  chickens  in  the  market  for 
fifty  cents. 

The  birds  were  always  ready  dressed.  The  old- 
fashioned  Southern  housekeeper  held  that  the  craw 
and  intestines  absolutely  poisoned  the  meat  if  al- 
lowed to  remain  ip  long  after  the  fowl  was  killed. 
Nowadays  we  are  told  that  poultry  keeps  better 
when  the  internal  arrangements  are  not  exposed  to 
the  air.  Both  theories  may  be  true,  and  the  dis- 
crepancy is  possibly  due  to  the  difference  in  climate. 
But  the  poultry  my  mother  used  to  supervise  in 
preparation  was  cooped  up  for  a  day  or  two  before 
it  was  to  be  killed,  and  was  picked  and  dressed  as 
soon  as  possible  after  its  execution.  It  must  not  be 
cooked,  however,  for  six  or  eight  hours  after  this, 

34 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     35 

and  I  well  recall  the  disgust  of  my  mother,  when 
as  a  child  I  read  her  a  story  in  which  a  New  Eng- 
land housekeeper  tells  her  husband  to  hurry  out  into 
the  yard  and  kill  a  chicken,  as  supper  must  be  ready 
in  an  hour. 

Fried  chicken  is,  of  course,  my  chief  recollection 
of  the  poultry  dishes  mother  used  to  make.  We 
had  roast  chicken,  besides,  and  barbecued  and 
smothered  and  boiled  chicken,  and  roast  and  boiled 
turkey  and  roast  duck.  But  fried  chicken  was  as 
regular  an  article  on  the  Virginia  bill  of  fare  as 
beefsteak  is  in  some  Northern  homes, —  chicken 
fried  plain  or  with  cream  gravy,  with  bacon  or  with- 
out. Broiled  chicken  appeared  pretty  often, —  we 
always  had  it  for  breakfast  Sunday  morning, — 
but  it  was  not  such  a  real  Virginia  dish  as  fried 
chicken.  The  Southern  cook  of  old  time  might 
fail  on  anything  else  in  the  culinary  line,  but  I  don't 
believe  I  ever  heard  of  one  who  got  her  "  han' 
out  "  in  cooking  poultry. 

FRIED  CHICKEN  WITH  CREAM  GRAVY 

For  this  you  must  have  young  chickens,  broiling 
size,  and  they  must  be  cut  apart  as  for  fricassee, 
rinsed,  wiped  dry,  peppered  lightly  and  then  rolled 


36    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

in  flour,  a  piece  at  a  time.  Meanwhile  half  a  pound 
of  salt  pork  should  have  been  sliced  and  cooked  in 
a  frying-pan  long  enough  to  make  the  fat  flow,  but 
not  enough  to  brown  the  pork.  In  this  fat  lay  the 
pieces  of  chicken  and  fry  to  a  good  brown,  turning 
the  pieces  as  they  cook.  When  all  are  done  take 
out  with  a  fork,  so  as  to  free  from  grease,  and  lay 
in  a  hot  dish.  Set  this  in  the  open  oven  and  pour 
into  the  gravy  left  in  the  frying-pan  a  cupful  of 
rich  milk, —  half  cream  is  better, —  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  stir  until  the  sauce  has  boiled  smooth 
and  thick,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley 
and  pour  over  the  chicken. 

THE   OLD-FASHIONED   SMOTHERED 
CHICKEN 

Split  young  chickens  as  you  would  for  broiling, 
washing  and  wiping  them  inside  and  out.  Lay 
them  then  skin  downwards  on  the  grating  of  the 
covered  roaster.  Put  on  the  cover  and  set  in  a  very 
hot  oven.  After  ten  minutes,  uncover  and  baste 
the  chickens  with  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  A 
half-cupful  is  none  too  much.  When  they  begin  to 
color  on  the  inside  turn  them  over  and  baste  again. 
In  about  twenty-five  minutes  dredge  them  well  with 


^  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    37 


flour,  baste  again  and  cook  five  or  ten  minutes 
longer.  If  they  are  young  and  tender  less  than 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  should  suffice  for  making 
them  brown  and  juicy.  Frequent  basting  is  essen- 
tial. Put  on  a  hot  dish,  thicken  the  gravy  in  the 
pan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour,  add  half 
a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  boil  up  once  and  pour 
over  the  chicken. 

Before  the  days  of  covered  roasters,  my  mother 
used  to  lay  a  small  gridiron  in  the  dripping-pan,  to 
serve  as  a  grating,  and  turn  another  pan  over  the 
top.  She  herself  can  remember  that  in  her  childish 
days  the  cooking  was  all  done  before  a  huge  open 
fire.  Then  there  was  a  metal  oven  standing  on  feet 
which  raised  it  high  enough  from  the  ground  to  per- 
mit of  fire  being  put  under  it.  The  coals  were  put 
on  top  and  the  chicken  was  cooked  in  this.  If  there 
was  no  gridiron  small  enough  to  fit  into  the  pan, 
clean  hickory  sticks  were  laid  in  it  to  make  a  grating 
on  which  to  raise  the  chicken  from  the  surface  of 
the  pan.  She  says  smothered  chicken  tasted  better 
in  those  days  than  when  cooked  in  a  stove,  but  it 
is  good  enough  for  any  one  now,  whether  it  comes 
from  a  wood  or  a  coal  or  a  gas  range,  if  cooked  by 
mother's  recipe. 


38    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

DELICIOUS  CHICKEN  POTPIE 

For  this  you  will  need  a  tender  roasting  chicken, 
which  should  be  cut  up  as  for  fricassee.  Have 
sliced  also  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork.  Make  a  pie- 
paste,  butter  the  bottom  and  side  of  a  pot  thor- 
oughly,— •  be  careful  with  this,  to  prevent  sticking, — 
and  line  the  pot  with  your  paste.  Have  some  of  the 
paste  cut  into  squares  for  dumplings.  Put  a  layer 
of  the  sliced  pork  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  on  the 
paste,  sprinkle  it  with  pepper  and  put  in  a  layer  of 
the  chicken.  Mix  with  this  the  pastry  squares. 
Follow  this  with  another  layer  of  pork,  then  more 
chicken  and  so  on  until  all  are  used.  Cut  a  round 
of  pastry  quite  thick,  make  a  couple  of  slits  in  it  and 
lay  it  over  the  top  of  the  contents  of  the  pot.  Let 
these  contents  heat  very  slowly  and  cook  from  two 
to  three  hours. 

Sometimes  the  bottom  crust  — i  which  had  a  trick 
of  burning — 'was  omitted  and  only  a  top  crust 
used.  When  this  was  the  case,  mother  heated  the 
shovel  red  hot  and  held  it  over  the  top  of  the  pot 
until  the  paste  was  well  browned  and  then  lifted  it 
off  carefully  and  put  it  to  one  side  until  the  chicken 
was  dished;  then  the  crust  was  laid  on  top  of  the 
chicken. 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     39 

HOW  TO  FRICASSEE  CHICKEN 

Young  chickens  were  used  for  this  dish  and  were 
cut  up  in  the  usual  fashion,  and  laid  in  cold  water 
for  half  an  hour  before  they  were  put  in  a  saucepan 
with  just  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them.  Half 
a  pound  of  salt  pork,  cut  into  strips,  was  fried 
crisp,  chopped  fine  and  put  into  the  pot  with  the 
chicken,  and  into  the  fat  in  which  the  pork  had  been 
fried  was  put  a  good-sized  onion,  sliced.  When 
this  had  been  fried  it,  too,  was  added  to  the  chicken, 
as  well  as  a  saltspoonful  each  of  allspice  and  cloves. 
The  pot  was  covered  and  all  stewed  together  very 
slowly  for  about  an  hour.  When  the  test  of  a  fork 
proved  that  the  chicken  was  tender  it  was  taken  out 
and  closely  covered  in  a  dish.  A  spoonful  of  wal- 
nut or  mushroom  catsup  was  added  to  the  gravy, 
two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  browned  flour,  a  lit- 
tle chopped  parsley,  and  last  of  all  a  glassful  of 
brown  sherry  or  madeira.  The  gravy  was  boiled 
up  once,  all  floating  bits  of  pork  or  onion  removed 
with  a  strainer,  the  chicken  put  back  into  it  for  a 
minute  and  all  brought  to  a  boil  and  then  dished. 

THE    FAMOUS    BRUNSWICK    STEW    OF 
CHICKEN 

Cut  into  joints  a  large   fowl.     Have  ready  a 


40    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

broad  pot  or  saucepan, —  one  of  generous  size.  In 
the  bottom  of  this  put  a  layer  of  chopped  salt  pork, 
and  upon  this  strew  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion. 
Next  should  come  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced,  parboiled 
potatoes,  one  of  green  corn,  cut  from  the  cob,  one 
of  lima  beans,  and  last  the  chicken.  Begin  then 
again  with  the  salt  pork  and  continue  in  the  same 
order  as  before,  repeating  the  process  until  all  the 
materials  are  used  up.  There  should  have  been 
half  a  dozen  potatoes,  three  large  onions,  three  ears 
of  corn,  a  pint  of  lima  beans  and  a  half-pound  of 
salt  pork.  Pour  over  all  three  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  cover  closely  and  stew  steadily  and  slowly 
for  three  hours.  Uncover  then  and  put  in  a  quart 
of  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
white  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  black  pepper.  Cook  an  hour  more,  put 
in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  rubbed  smooth  with 
two  of  flour,  boil  five  minutes  longer  and  serve. 

This  is,  in  reality,  the  famous  squirrel  stew 
named  for  the  county  of  Brunswick  in  Virginia, 
where  it  had  its  birth, —  or  its  discovery,  or  its  in- 
vention, or  whatever  is  the  correct  name  to  apply 
to  a  work  of  culinary  genius.  But  squirrels  were 
not  always  attainable  in  our  home  and  chickens 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    41 

made  so  admirable  a  substitute  that  we  were  in  dan- 
ger of  forgetting  the  real  genesis  of  our  favorite 
dish.  I  have  never  known  any  one  to  eat  Bruns- 
wick stew,  properly  made,  who  did  not  enjoy  it. 


Salads  and  Vegetables 

In  the  old  times  in  the  South  they  knew  little  of 
green  salads,  and  a  French  dressing  was  in  many- 
regions  practically  an  unknown  quantity.  Mayon- 
naise, too,  was  not  to  be  reckoned  with  then,  al- 
though I  was  quite  a  young  girl  when  I  first  rec- 
ollect its  appearance. 

But  the  chicken  salad  "  mother  used  to  make  " 
was  better  to  rpe  than  any  compounded  by  modern 
methods,  good  as  this  often  is.  The  cold  slaw  of 
those  days  also  was  different  from  that  which  we 
have  now,  and  more  appetizing,  and  I  recall  a  po- 
tato salad  which  was  delicious  and  not  in  the  least 
like  the  dish  which  is  usually  served  under  that 
name  in  the  North. 

All  of  these  were  made  with  special  dressings 
and  had  their  appointed  place  on  the  supper-table, 
although  they  were  sometimes  served  as  a  side  dish 
at  dinner.  This  was  where  lettuce  and  cucumbers 
and  tomatoes  appeared.     The  idea  of  making  a 

42 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    43 

separate  course  of  lettuce  or  of  any  one  of  the  other 
salads,  and  breaking  for  it  the  sequence  of  the 
heavy,  old-fashioned  dinner,  would  have  been 
deemed  absurd. 

Vegetables,  too,  were  cooked  in  different  style 
under  mother's  regime  of  that  day  and  that  place. 
They  had  longer  cooking,  for  one  thing,  which  to 
my  mind  is  an  improvement,  and  green  vegetables 
nearly  always  had  a  bit  of  pork  or  bacon  boiled  with 
them.  There  was  not  so  large  a  variety  then  as  we 
have  in  our  markets  now,  but  those  in  use  were 
cooked  so  differently  that  they  seemed  like  other 
products.  The  methods  then  in  service  might  be 
introduced  with  advantage  by  those  housekeepers 
who  wish  diversity  and  can  not  afford  forced  veg- 
etables. 

Both  of  salads  and  vegetables  there  are  too  many 
to  attempt  to  give  anything  like  all,  but  I  have  made 
a  selection  of  certain  ones  which  stand  out  in  my 
memory  as  of  especial  excellence. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

Cut  the  white  meat  of  cold  roast  chicken  or  tur- 
key into  neat  small  pieces  (never  chop  it),  picking 
out  all  bits  of  skin  or  gristle.     When  it  is  all  cut, 


44    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

measure  it  and  allow  three-quarters  as  much  celery 
as  you  have  meat,  cutting  the  celery,  too,  into  small 
bits.  Mix  them  and  put  them  into  a  large  dish. 
Make  a  dressing  by  rubbing  smooth  the  yolks  of 
two  hard-boiled  eggs  with  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt,  pepper  and  white  sugar.  Add  a  half -teaspoon- 
ful of  made  mustard  and  then  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  salad  oil,  a  drop  at  a  time  and  stirred  in  thor- 
oughly, the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg,  well  beaten,  and 
then  a  scant  half-cupful  of  vinegar,  a  little  at  a  time, 
beating  well  while  this  is  going  in.  After  you  have 
sprinkled  the  meat  and  celery  with  a  little  salt  and 
pepper,  pour  the  dressing  over  them  and  stir  it  in 
well  and  then  put  into  the  salad  bowl,  garnishing 
the  top  with  the  rings  of  the  boiled  whites  of  eggs 
and  celery  tops. 

LOBSTER  SALAO 

For  the  dressing  of  lobster  salad  put  the  yolks 
of  four  hard-boiled  eggs  in  a  china  bowl  and  rub 
smooth  and  free  from  lumps  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon.  Work  into  them  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  of  made 
mustard,  a  saltspoonful  of  red  pepper,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  one  teaspoonful  of  anchovy 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     45 

sauce  and  the  coral  from  the  lobster.  This  coral 
should  have  been  broken  fine.  Cut  the  mixture 
with  vinegar  until  it  is  thin  enough  to  pour.  Ar- 
range the  lobster,  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  in  pieces 
of  convenient  size,  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  pour  the 
dressing  over  it  just  before  sending  to  table. 
Have  dressing  and  salad  alike  ice  cold. 

COLD  SLAW  OR  CABBAGE  SALAD 

Put  into  a  saucepan  a  cup  of  vinegar,  a  table- 
spoonful  each  of  sugar  and  of  butter,  a  pinch  of 
pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Set  over  the  fire 
and  stir  until  the  ingredients  come  to  a  boil.  Have 
shredded  fine  a  head  of  white  cabbage,  rejecting 
the  green  outer  leaves,  and  pour  the  dressing  over 
the  cabbage  while  scalding  hot.  Set  it  aside  to 
cool  and  when  chilled  put  it  on  the  ice.  Just  before 
using  stir  into  the  salad  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sour 
cream,  beaten  light  with  a  fork. 

LETTUCE  SALAD 

Rub  to  a  paste  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 
half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  made  mustard, 
a  teaspoonful  each  of  sugar  and  of  white  pepper, 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salad  oil.  If  you  do  not 
care  for  the  oil  substitute  melted  butter.     Beat  in 


46    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

four  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  after  cutting  the 
lettuce  up  with  a  sharp  knife,  pour  the  dressing 
over  it.  A  better  way  to  present-day  ideas  would 
be  to  tear  the  lettuce  or  break  it  into  small  pieces, 
but  in  the  old  time  it  was  always  cut  into  strips  with 
the  help  of  a  knife  and  fork.  Do  not  let  it  stand 
after  the  dressing  is  poured  over  it,  but  have  both 
lettuce  and  dressing  well  chilled  before  mixing 
them. 

COLLARDS 

For  this  dish  the  tender  shoots  of  the  cabbage 
are  taken  in  the  spring  when  the  roots  which  have 
been  left  in  the  ground  over  winter  begin  to  send 
up  leaves  and  stalks.  Pick  them  over  carefully 
and  lay  in  salted  cold  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Drain  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  boiling  water  and 
cook  them  fast  until  they  are  tender.  Often  a  piece 
of  pork  or  bacon  is  boiled  with  them.  Put  the  meat 
in  first  and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes  before  adding  the 
vegetables.  Drain  and  chop  the  coUards  and  dress 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

BEET  TOPS 

To  prepare  this  dish  young  beets  must  be  sacri- 
ficed.    While   little   thicker   than   the   finger   they 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    47 

must  be  pulled,  shaken  from  the  dirt,  well  washed 
and  put  over  the  fire  in  salted  boiling  water.  Boil 
until  the  beets  are  tender,  drain  and  serve  hot, 
dressed  with  salt  and  pepper  and  plenty  of  butter. 
A  delicious  dish,  and,  while  not  attainable  by  dwell- 
ers in  the  city,  is  within  reach  of  those  who  own  gar- 
dens. 

ASPARAGUS 

Wash  and  scrape  the  asparagus  and  throw  into 
cold  water.  Tie  up  loosely  with  a  soft  string  and 
put  over  the  fire  in  boiling  salted  water.  Cook  until 
tender,  take  from  the  stove  and  drain.  Trim  the 
crust  from  slices  of  stale  bread,  toast  and  butter  it 
and  lay  it  in  the  bottom  of  a  vegetable  dish.  Soften 
it  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  liquor  in  which  the 
asparagus  was  boiled ;  lay  the  asparagus  evenly  upon 
this  and  butter  it  plentifully.  In  the  old  times  white 
sauce  was  the  exception  rather  than  the  rule  for  as- 
paragus— at  least,  in  Virginia. 

BUTTERED  PARSNIPS 

Boil  the  parsnips  tender  and  scrape  of?  the  skin, 
slice  lengthwise  less  than  half  an  inch  thick  and  put 
into  a  saucepan.  Add  to  them  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  salt 


48    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

and  pepper  to  taste.  Shake  over  the  fire  until  the 
butter  bubbles  and  boils,  then  take  out  the  parsnips 
carefully,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  to  the  sauce 
left  over  the  fire,  boil  up  once  and  pour  on  the  pars- 
nips in  the  dish. 

SALSIFY  FRITTERS 

Scrape  the  skin  ofif  the  salsify  (which  in  the  old 
days  at  the  South  no  one  dreamed  of  calling  oyster- 
plant)  and  throw  into  cold  water  for  twenty  min- 
utes. Put  over  the  fire  in  boiling  salted  water,  stew 
until  tender,  drain  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When 
cold,  mash  smooth,  removing  the  fibrous  portions, 
and  moisten  with  a  little  milk.  To  every  cupful  of 
this  paste  add  one  egg  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
beating  the  eggs  light  before  putting  them  in.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  make  the  paste  into  cakes  of 
uniform  size,  dredge  them  with  flour  and  fry  to  a 
good  brown  in  shallow  fat. 

CORN  PUDDING 

Grate  corn  from  the  cobs  of  a  dozen  good-sized 
ears  and  put  with  it  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  five 
eggs.  Stir  well,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  beat  in  a  quart  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.     Beat  hard  and  at 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    49 

the  last  put  in  the  whites  of  the  five  eggs,  whipped 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Turn  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
bake  covered  for  twenty-five  minutes,  uncover  and 
brown.     A  delicious  vegetable. 

CORN  FRITTERS 

To  every  two  cupfuls  of  corn,  grated  from  the 
ear  before  cooking,  allow  two  eggs  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk.  Whip  the  eggs  light, 
beat  in  the  corn  a  little  at  a  time,  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  for  two  cupfuls  of  the  corn.  Salt  to 
taste,  add  the  cream  or  milk,  and  lastly,  put  in  a 
couple  of  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, —  enough  to  hold 
the  fritters  together.  Cook  upon  a  griddle  as  you 
would  pancakes  or  by  the  tablespoonful  dropped  in 
boiling  fat. 

SCALLOPED  EGG  PLANT 

Cut  the  egg  plant  into  slices,  peel  and  boil  until 
soft,  then  arrange  in  a  bake-dish  with  alternate  lay- 
ers of  crumbs,  pepper,  salt  and  butter.  Bake  cov- 
ered half  an  hour,  uncover  and  brown. 

STRING  OR  "  SNAP  "  BEANS 

String  carefully,  trimming  off  the  ends  and  sides, 
cut  into  inch  lengths  and  lay  in  slightly  salted  water 


50    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  the  beans  and  put 
them  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  with  a  cube  of 
salt  pork  or  of  bacon,  cooking  half  an  hour  if  the 
beans  are  young  and  tender,  from  an  hour  to  two 
hours  if  they  are  older  and  firmer.  The  long  boil- 
ing improves  them.  Drain  them,  dress  with  a  little 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

TURNIP  TOPS 

These  are  the  young  shoots  the  turnips  put  up  in 
the  Spring  when  they  have  been  left  in  the  ground 
all  Winter,  as  is  done  at  the  South.  Even  in  the 
North  the  turnips  sprout  in  the  root  cellar,  and  these 
shoots  make  excellent  eating.  Cut  them  off,  wash 
them  well  and  put  them  over  the  fire  in  a  plenty  of 
boiling  water.  Cook  in  this  ten  minutes.  In  an- 
other vessel  have  a  piece  of  corned  pork  stewing, 
and  when  you  have  drained  the  turnip  tops  or  "  tur- 
nip salad  "  as  it  was  called  in  Virginia,  put  them  in 
with  the  pork  and  let  them  simmer  twenty  minutes 
longer.  Drain  again,  lay  the  pork  in  the  middle  of 
the  dish  and  arrange  the  greens  about  it.  Eat  with 
the  addition  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar. 

Care  must  be  taken  to  use  an  abundance  of  water 
in  the  first  boiling,  to  rid  the  turnip  tops  of  the 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     51 

slight  bitter  flavor  that  would  otherwise  cling  to 
them. 

BLACK  EYED  PEAS 

When  these  are  green  they  will  not  require  pre- 
liminary soaking,  but  when  they  are  dry  they  must 
be  soaked  overnight.  Put  them  over  the  fire  in  hot 
water  with  a  piece  of  "  middling  "  or  bacon,  and 
boil  until  tender, —  half  an  hour  about  for  the  green 
peas,  an  hour  and  a  half  for  the  dry.  Drain,  mash 
slightly  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  fry  half  a  dozen 
thin  slices  of  bacon  in  a  frying-pan,  take  them  out 
and  lay  to  one  side  and  put  in  the  half  mashed  peas. 
Cook  until  they  are  slightly  crisped  and  browned  on 
one  side  and  turn  out  on  a  dish.  Lay  the  strips  of 
bacon  about  the  beans. 

LARGE  HOMINY,  BOILED 

At  the  North  this  is  termed  samp.  Soak  it  over- 
night and  in  the  morning  put  it  over  the  fire  with 
plenty  of  water  and  boil  three  or  four  hours  until 
soft.  Drain,  turn  into  a  vegetable  dish  and  eat  as 
a  vegetable  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

LARGE  HOMINY,  FRIED 

Put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  bacon  dripping  or  of 


52    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

butter  into  the  frying  pan,  and  as  soon  as  this  is  hot 
turn  in  enough  of  the  large  hominy,  boiled  as  in  the 
preceding  recipe,  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  two 
or  three  inches  deep.  Cook  until  it  is  browned  on 
the  under  side  and  turn  it  out  so  that  the  browned 
part  is  uppermost.  This  may  be  garnished  with 
fried  bacon,  if  desired. 


VI 
Southern  Sweet  Dishes 

"  Why  do  I  never  get  such  pound-cake  as  this  any- 
where but  from  a  Southern  kitchen?  "  I  asked  a 
friend  the  other  day. 

The  cake  in  question  was  even  brown  without,  a 
clear  gold  within,  fine  in  texture  and  delicious  in 
flavor. 

"  I  don't  know  why,"  she  answered,  "  except  that 
I  think  the  Northern  cooks  are  not  generous  enough 
with  their  eggs  and  butter.  You  know  you  just 
can't  be  stingy  when  you  are  making  pound-cake." 

"  It  tastes  *  like  mother  —  and  grandmother  — 
used  to  make,'  "  I  sighed,  taking  another  piece. 

Not  only  the  pound-cake  was  better  in  those  old 
days,  but  sponge-cake  and  layer-cake  and,  indeed, 
all  cakes.  I  don't  eat  any  gingerbread  now  like  that 
of  the  old  time.  Nor  do  I  find  such  wine  jelly,  such 
syllabubs,  such  whips,  such  pies!  Those  who  are 
on  the  lookout  for  new  sweets  might  do  worse  than 
takd  a  lesson  from  the  dishes  mother  used  to  make 

S3 


54    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

and  set  forth  as  a  novelty  something  that  seems  new 
just  because  it  is  so  old.  I  can  vouch  for  the  ac- 
curacy of  the  directions. 

POUND-CAKE 

One  pound  of  eggs,  one  pound  each  of  flour,  of 
butter,  of  sugar;  half  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg, 
one  tablespoonful  of  best  brandy.  Wash  the  salt 
out  of  the  butter,  and  cream  it  with  the  sugar.  Beat 
the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs  separately  and  very 
light.  Work  the  spice  and  brandy  into  the  creamed 
sugar  and  butter,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and 
when  well  mixed  add  the  sifted  flour  alternately 
with  the  whipped  whites.  Beat  them  in  lightly,  but 
do  not  stir  them  after  they  have  been  added.  Make 
the  batter  for  pound-cake  as  stiff  as  it  can  be  stirred. 
Bake  in  a  steady  oven  in  either  brick  or  melon  tins. 

This  is  the  genuine  old-fashioned  pound-cake  and 
is  very  rich.  A  simpler  cake  may  be  made  by  using 
only  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  but  the 
other  ingredients  the  same  as  in  the  recipe  given. 

OLD-TIME  SPONGE-CAKE 

Weigh  ten  eggs  and  take  their  weight  in  sugar 
and  half  their  weight  in  flour.  Grate  half  the  peel 
of  a  lemon  and  put  with  it  all  the  juice  of  the  lemon. 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    55 

Beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and  smooth  and  add  the 
sugar.  Stir  in  the  lemon- juice  and  peel,  then  the 
flour  and,  last  of  all,  the  stiffly-beaten  whites.  Bake 
in  a  steady  oven,  and  take  care  that  the  kitchen  is 
not  jarred  and  that  the  oven  door  is  opened  and 
closed  carefully  while  the  cake  is  baking. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD 

One  cupful  each  of  butter,  molasses,  sugar  and 
sour  milk,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger 
and  one  teaspoon ful  each  of  cinnamon  and  baking- 
soda,  four  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  flour.  Put  the  but- 
ter, molasses,  sugar  and  spices  together  in  a  bowl 
and  set  them  where  they  will  warm  gradually. 
When  the  butter  softens,  beat  the  contents  of  the 
bowl  to  a  cream.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  boil- 
ing water  and  stir  this  into  the  milk.  Put  this  with 
the  warmed  mixture,  add  the  eggs,  beaten  light  with- 
out separating,  and  then  put  in  the  flour.  If  the 
amount  given  does  not  bring  the  mixture  to  the 
thickness  of  cup-cake  batter,  add  a  little  more.  Beat 
very  hard  before  turning  into  well-buttered  pans. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  or,  if  preferred,  in  small  tins. 
CHEESE-CAKES 
Cream  a  half-pound  of  butter  with  a  pound  of 


56    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

sugar,  beat  in  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  the  grated  rind 
of  two  lemons  and  the  juice  of  one,  a  grated  nutmeg 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy;  last  of  all,  stir  in  the 
whipped  whites  of  the  eggs.  Line  open  patty-pans 
with  good  puff-paste  and  fill  with  the  mixture.  Lay 
strips  of  pastry  in  a  lattice  pattern  across  the  top, 
and  bake.     Eat  cold. 

TRANSPARENT  PUDDINGS 

Prepare  your  filling  as  for  cheese-cakes  and  bake 
in  pie  plates  lined  with  rich  pastry.  Make  a  me- 
ringue by  beating  together  the  whites  of  four  eggs, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Spread  this  over  the  tops  of  the  pies 
when  they  are  baked  and  leave  them  in  the  oven  long 
enough  to  brown  the  meringue  lightly. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

Parboil  a  pound  of  good  sweet  potatoes  and  when 
quite  cold,  grate  them.  Cream  half  a  cupful  of  but- 
ter with  three-quarters  of  a  cupful  of  white  sugar, 
stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  teaspoonful 
each  of  cinnamon  and  grated  nutmeg  and  the  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Whip  in  the  grated 
potato,  a  cupful  of  milk  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
brandy,  and,  last,  the  beaten  whites  of  the  four  eggs. 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     57 

Bake  in  open  pastry  shells  or  as  a  pudding  in  a  deep 
baking-dish  without  a  crust.     Eat  cold. 

GOOSEBERRY  TART 

Pick  over  your  gooseberries,  "  top  and  tail  "  them 
and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  water  to  pre- 
vent burning.  Simmer  until  they  break,  and 
sweeten  to  taste.  If  the  gooseberries  are  green 
they  will  stand  a  great  deal  of  sugar.  Set  them 
aside  to  cool  and  when  cold  pour  into  pastry  shells. 
Cover  with  a  thickness  of  puff-paste  and  bake  well. 

SQUARE  TURNOVERS 

For  these,  cut  squares  of  good  pastry.  Make 
ready  a  filling  by  thickening  a  cupful  of  hot  milk 
with  three  tablespoonf  uls  of  flour  wet  to  a  paste  with 
cold  water.  Let  it  boil  for  a  minute,  see  that  it  is 
free  from  lumps,  take  from  the  fire  and  pour  on 
three  eggs,  beaten  well  with  a  half  cupful  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Return  to  the  fire  and  stir  to  a  thick, 
smooth  cream.  Flavor  to  taste.  When  cold  put  it 
by  the  spoonful  in  the  middle  of  a  square  of  the 
paste  and  fold  the  corners  to  the  middle,  pinching 
them  together  there.  Bake  to  a  good  brown  and 
eat  cold. 


58    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

SYLLABUBS 

Sweeten  a  pint  of  rich  cream  with  a  half  cupful  of 
fine  sugar,  stirring  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved. Whip  the  cream  light  and  then  flavor  with 
a  glassful  of  sherry  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Serve  at  once,  either  in  individual  glasses  or  in  a 
big  bowl. 

WINE  JELLY 

Soak  one  box  of  gelatin  in  one  cupful  of  cold  wa- 
ter for  an  hour,  and  then  add  to  it  three  cupfuls  of 
sugar,  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  the  grated  peel 
of  one  and  a  good  pinch  of  cinnamon.  Let  all  stand 
together  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour.  Turn  over 
them,  then,  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  stir  until  the 
gelatin  is  entirely  dissolved;  add  a  pint  of  good 
sherry,  strain  through  a  flannel  —  do  not  squeeze  it 
—  and  turn  into  a  mold  wet  with  cold  water.  If 
the  gelatin  does  not  dissolve,  put  it  over  the  fire  for 
a  moment  until  the  liquid  comes  to  a  boil.  Do  this, 
of  course,  before  the  wine  goes  in. 

GOOSEBERRY  FOOL 

Stew  a  quart  of  ripe  gooseberries  in  just  enough 
water  to  cover  them,  and  when  soft  rub  them 
through    a    colander.     Take    the    pulp    that    goes 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"    59 

through  and  beat  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
a  cupful  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  well 
beaten.  Heap  in  a  glass  dish  and  put  on  top  a  me- 
ringue made  by  whipping  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
stiff  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar. 


VII 
Pickling  and  Preserving 

My  grandmother,  who  was  a  notable  housekeeper, 
did  much  of  her  conserving  after  dark.  When  the 
heat  of  the  Southern  day  was  past  she  would  cook 
her  jellies  and  preserved  or  pickled  fruit  in  an  out- 
door kitchen.  My  mother  practiced  the  same  phi- 
losophy and  studied  coolness  of  dress  and  conditions 
when  preparing  and  putting  up  provisions  for  her 
jelly  closet  and  preserve  pantry.  The  example  is 
worth  following,  for  even  at  the  North  there  are 
torrid  days  to  be  avoided  when  hot  work  over  a 
stove  must  be  done. 

MIXED  PICKLES 

For  this  you  must  lay  the  vegetables  in  brine. 

The  gherkins  or  small  cucumbers  should  be  packed 

in  a  crock  with  alternate  layers  of  salt,  and  left  in 

this,  after  pouring  in  water  enough  to  cover  the  top 

layer,  for  a  full  week,  stirring  them  up  from  the 

bottom  every  day  or  two.     To  keep  the  top  layer 

from  floating,  place  a  weighted  plate  on  it.     When 

60 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"    6i 

ready  to  put  up  the  pickles,  go  over  the  cucumbers 
carefully,  rejecting  all  that  are  soft,  and  leave  the 
others  in  fresh  water  forty-eight  hours,  changing 
the  water  once. 

The  cauliflower  for  your  pickles  may  be  cut  into 
small  clusters  and  boiled  in  strong  brine  for  three 
minutes,  taken  out,  sprinkled  with  salt,  and,  when 
dry,  brushed  off  and  thrown  into  cold  vinegar  for 
two  days.  Select  young  string-beans,  radish  pods 
that  are  young  and  green,  and  "  green  "  all  the  veg- 
etables together  by  laying  them  in  a  broad  kettle 
which  you  have  lined  with  vine  leaves,  sprinkling 
the  pickles  with  a  very  little  alum ;  fill  with  cold  wa- 
ter, covering  with  more  vine  leaves,  and,  after  put- 
ting a  close  top  on  the  kettle,  steam  for  five  or  six 
hours.  The  water  should  not  be  allowed  to  boil. 
After  the  pickles  are  well  greened  they  may  be 
thrown  into  very  cold  water  and  left  there  half  an 
hour. 

The  vinegar  for  the  pickles  may  be  prepared  by 
allowing  a  cupful  of  sugar,  three  dozen  each  of 
whole  cloves  and  black  peppers,  a  dozen  blades  of 
mace  and  eighteen  whole  allspice  to  each  gallon  of 
vinegar.  Cook  all  together  foi:  five  minutes,  keep- 
ing at  a  steady  boil,  and  then,  having  arranged  your 


62    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

prepared  vegetables  in  a  stone  crock,  pour  the  boil- 
ing vinegar  upon  them,  cover,  and  set  aside.  The 
next  day  but  one  drain  off  the  vinegar,  make  it 
scalding  hot  again  and  pour  over  the  pickles,  and 
do  this  on  alternate  days  three  times  more.  Close 
tightly  the  crock  or  jars  containing  the  pickles  and 
let  them  ripen  for  at  least  two  months  before  you 
serve  them. 

PEACH  MANGOES 

Select  large  free-stone  peaches.  Use  them  be- 
fore they  begin  to  mellow.  Lay  the  fruit  in  a  strong 
brine  for  a  week.  Dry  them,  cut  a  slice  from  the 
side  of  each  peach  and  remove  the  stone,  saving  the 
slice  to  replace  after  the  peach  is  stuffed.  Make  a 
stuffing  of  one  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  nutmeg, 
mustard,  mace,  white  sugar,  celery  seed  and  salad 
oil,  a  clove  of  garlic,  chopped,  a  pinch  of  ginger,  a 
dozen  whole  pepper-corns,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
scraped  horseradish.  Mix  all  well  and  stuff  into 
the  hole  in  the  peach.  Make  it  as  full  as  it  will 
hold,  replace  the  slice  cut  out,  sew  in  with  strong 
linen  thread  and  put  the  peaches  into  pickle.  Make 
this  by  adding  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar  to  a  gallon 
of   vinegar   and   a    half-teaspoonful    of    cayenne. 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    63 

Bring  this  to  a  boil  and  pour,  while  scalding  hot, 
over  the  peaches. 

PEPPER  MANGOES 

Use  large  green  peppers,  cut  a  slit  in  the  side  and 
remove  the  seeds  with  a  knife  or  an  oyster-fork. 
Be  careful  not  to  touch  them  with  your  fingers  at 
the  risk  of  a  burning.  Prepare  a  stuffing  by  the 
same  recipe  as  that  for  the  peach  mangoes ;  fill  the 
peppers  with  this,  sew  up  the  slit,  lay  them  in  a 
deep  stone  jar  and  pour  boiling  vinegar  on  them. 
This  must  be  drained  off,  reheated  and  poured  over 
the  peppers  again  three  times,  with  an  interval  of 
two  days  between  each  scalding.  Four  months  will 
be  required  to  ripen  these  for  the  table. 

SLICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLE 

Slice  twelve  large  green  cucumbers  and  boil  them 
in  vinegar  for  an  hour.  Put  aside  in  the  vinegar 
and  prepare  a  further  pickle  as  follows:  allow  a 
half-tablespoonful  each  of  sliced  garlic,  grated 
horseradish,  turmeric,  ground  black  pepper,  ginger, 
cinnamon  and  celery  seed,  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
ground  cloves,  allspice  and  mace,  a  half-teaspoon- 
ful  of  red  pepper  and  a  half-pound  of  sugar  to  each 
half-gallon  of  vinegar;  put  in  the  cucumbers  and 


64    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

simmer  for  two  hours.     Take  from  the  fire  and  put 
into  jars. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE 

Slice  without  peeling  four  quarts  of  green  to- 
matoes; peel  and  slice  a  quart  of  onions  and  put 
with  these  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  a  quart  of  vinegar, 
a  tablespoonful  each  of  salt,  ground  mustard  and 
black  pepper,  and  half  a  tablespoonful  each  of  all- 
spice and  cloves.  Put  over  the  fire  and  stew  until 
the  vegetables  are  tender,  watching  carefully  that 
the  mixture  does  not  scorch.  This  will  be  fit  for 
eating  in  about  two  months. 

PICKLED  PEACHES 

Peel  and  weigh  your  fruit,  and  to  every  five 
pounds  of  it  allow  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar, 
a  pint  of  vinegar,  and  spices, —  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  mace, —  to  taste.  Let  the  peaches  lie  in  the 
sugar  for  an  hour  and  then  drain  off  the  syrup 
which  has  flowed  from  them  and  put  it  over  the  fire 
with  a  half-pint  of  water.  As  it  boils,  the  scum 
will  rise  and  must  be  taken  off.  When  the  scum 
does  not  rise  any  longer,  put  in  the  fruit.  Boil  for 
about  five  minutes,  remove  the  peaches  with  a  skim- 
mer and   spread   on   dishes.     Put   the   spices   and 


LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    65 


vinegar  with  the  syrup  and  let  it  boil  fifteen  min- 
utes. Arrange  your  fruit  in  glass  jars  and  pour 
the  syrup  over  it.  Pickled  pears  may  be  put  up  by 
the  same  recipe. 

FRUIT  JELLIES 

Cook  your  fruit,  berries,  apples,  quinces,  grapes 
or  damsons,  until  the  fruit  is  broken  to  pieces.  Put 
the  fruit  through  a  vegetable  press  and  let  the  juice 
that  runs  from  it  strain  through  a  flannel  bag; 
measure  the  strained  juice  and  to  every  pint  of  it 
allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Return  the  juice  to  the 
fire  in  your  preserving-kettle  and  put  the  sugar  in 
the  oven  in  shallow  pans.  Let  the  juice  boil  twenty 
minutes,  removing  any  scum  which  may  rise  to  the 
top ;  turn  in  the  sugar  and  bring  the  jelly  to  a  boil ; 
cook  just  one  minute  and  take  from  the  fire.  Have 
the  jelly-glasses  ready  in  hot  water,  fill  to  the  very 
brim  with  the  jelly  (this  shrinks  in  cooling)  and  set 
aside.  When  cool  pour  melted  paraffin  on  the  top 
and  put  on  the  covers. 

FRUIT  JAMS  AND  MARMALADES 

Weigh  your  fruit,  hulling  or  picking  over  berries, 
peeling  and  slicing  larger  fruits,  before  the  weigh- 
ing is  done.     To  each  pound  of  the  fruit  allow 


66    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar, —  except  with 
green  gooseberry  jam,  when  pound  for  pound  is 
demanded.  Put  the  fruit  over  the  fire  and  let  it 
cook  until  tender,  heating  it  slowly  at  first,  and  stir- 
ring it  from  the  bottom  often.  Let  it  boil  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Dip  out  any  superfluous 
juice  and  either  can  it  for  pudding  sauce  or  make 
it  into  jelly.  Put  in  the  sugar  and  boil  for  five 
minutes.  Take  off  any  scum  which  rises  to  the 
surface.     Put  into  small  jars,  or  glasses,  and  seal. 

BRANDIED  PEACHES 

Make  a  syrup  of  seven  pounds  of  granulated 
sugar  and  a  little  water, —  enough  to  dissolve  the 
sugar.  Put  it  over  the  fire  in  a  preserving-kettle 
and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Have  ready  seven  pounds 
of  firm  white  peaches,  peeled  but  not  stoned,  lay 
the  fruit  in  the  syrup  and  boil  five  minutes.  Take 
it  out  carefully,  put  it  into  jars,  boil  the  syrup  fif- 
teen minutes  longer  or  until  it  thickens,  add  three 
half  pints  good  brandy,  pour  the  mixture  at  once 
over  the  fruit  in  the  jars  and  seal  these. 

BRANDIED  PEARS 

These  may  be  put  up  in  the  same  way  and  so  may 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    67 

plums.     Peel  the  pears  but  only  prick  the  plums,  to 
prevent  their  bursting. 

PRESERVED  PEARS  AND  PEACHES 

Peel  the  pears  without  removing  the  stems;  peel 
and  stone  the  peaches.  Weigh  them  and  allow  a 
pound  of  granulated  sugar  to  every  pound  of  the 
fruit.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  preserving-kettle 
with  a  layer  of  the  sugar,  put  fruit  on  this,  an- 
other layer  of  sugar,  and  proceed  thus  until  all  are 
used.  Let  the  kettle  heat  slowly  at  the  side  of  the 
stove  and  stew  the  fruit  in  the  sugar  until  they  are 
clear  and  tender.  This  should  not  require  much 
over  half  an  hour.  The  fruit  must  then  be  re- 
moved from  the  syrup  with  a  perforated  skimmer 
and  spread  out  on  large  platters  while  the  syrup  is 
again  brought  to  the  boil  and  cooked  fast  for  about 
a  quarter-hour.  Skim  frequently  and  when  clear 
and  thick  arrange  the  fruit  in  wide-mouthed  jars 
and  pour  the  syrup  upon  them. 


VTII 

Old-Time  Thanksgiving  Fare 

Despite  the  Southern  training  which  made  our 
home  cookery  smack  preeminently  of  the  Old  Do- 
minion, there  were  other  strains  which  helped  to 
give  variety  to  the  table.  A  New  England  connec- 
tion familiarized  us  with  delicacies  of  Puritan  and 
Pilgrim  ancestry;  a  relation  with  the  New  Amster- 
dam Dutch  had  introduced  us  to  the  good  things 
whose  forebears  had  come  from  Holland.  So 
when  we  came  to  plan  for  a  Thanksgiving  dinner 
we  were  not  restricted  to  the  dainties  of  any  one 
section  of  the  country.  The  Thanksgiving  bill  of 
fare  is  always  much  the  same,  and  we  would  not 
have  it  otherwise.  In  my  young  days  the  mince 
pie  was  considered  a  Christmas  dainty  and  was 
served  for  that  season.  Pumpkin  pie  made  its 
bow,  so  to  speak,  at  the  Thanksgiving  dinner,  and 
then,  too,  we  usually  had  the  first  turkey  of  the 
year. 

The  only  variety  in  the  turkey  was  his  stuffing, 
68 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    69 

and  while  this  was  usually  the  good  old  dry  and 
buttery  bread  dressing,  we  varied  it  sometimes  by 
the  addition  of  sausage  or  of  oysters.  The  latter 
was  an  especial  favorite.  Cranberry  jelly  or  sauce 
we  always  had,  and  the  stock  vegetables,  turnips, 
celery,  sweet  potatoes  and  a  corn  pudding.  Then 
there  was  a  delicious  Thanksgiving  cake,  but  this 
was  generally  saved  until  supper-time  and  served 
after  a  salad  which  stimulated  our  overworked  ap- 
petites. 

OYSTER  STUFFING  FOR  TURKEY 

Make  a  stuffing  for  turkey  of  a  large  cupful  of 
crumbs,  seasoning  with  parsley,  sweet  marjoram 
and  thyme,  and  moisten  with  melted  butter.  Chop 
twenty  small  oysters  fine  and  mix  with  the  dress- 
ing. If  you  prefer  you  may  leave  the  oysters 
whole.  With  this  stuffing  fill  the  breast  of  the 
turkey. 

FRIED  OYSTERS  TO  GARNISH  TURKEY 

For  this  you  must  select  fine  large  oysters,  take 
them  from  the  liquor  carefully  and  dry  on  a  soft 
cloth.  Dip  each  oyster  in  powdered  crackers,  roll- 
ing it  over  and  over  until  well  coated.  Fry  them  in 
enough,hot  butter  to  cover  them  when  you  put  them 


70    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

in  the  frying-pan.  Take  out  the  moment  they  are 
done  and  lay  around  the  edge  of  the  hot  dish  in 
which  the  turkey  is  established. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE 

Put  one  quart  of  cranberries  over  the  fire  with 
half  a  pint  of  cold  water  and  let  them  cook  until 
broken  to  pieces.  Add  a  pound  of  sugar  and  cook 
until  this  melts, —  no  longer,  as  lengthy  cooking 
tends  to  make  the  sauce  bitter.  Take  from  the  fire 
and  set  aside  to  cool. 

CORN  PUDDING 

Chop  two  cupfuls  of  canned  corn  and  beat  into 
it  two  eggs,  whipped  light,  half  a  pint  of  milk  in 
which  has  been  dissolved  a  pinch  of  baking-soda, 
a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  a  half-pint  of  milk  and  salt  to  taste.  Turn 
into  a  greased  pudding-dish  and  bake  covered  fif- 
teen minutes;  then  uncover  and  bake  ten  minutes 
longer.     Serve  as  a  vegetable. 

FILLING  FOR  PUMPKIN  PIE 

Press  through  a  colander  a  quart  of  stewed  pump- 
kin and  add  to  it  two  quarts  of  milk.  Have  this 
rich  and,  if  you  can  make  it  part  cream,  it  will  im- 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    71 

prove  the  pie.  Stir  in  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg and  mace,  the  yolks  of  nine  eggs,  well  beaten, 
and  finally  the  whites  of  the  eggs  whipped  to  a 
standing  froth.  Beat  all  well  and  turn  into  pie 
dishes  lined  with  good  paste. 

PASTRY  FOR  PUMPKIN  PIE 

Have  your  pastry-board,  mixing-bowl,  chopping- 
knife  and  other  utensils  very  cold,  as  well  as  the 
ingredients.  Chop  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
butter  into  a  pound  of  flour ;  when  well  mingled, — 
the  butter  in  bits  no  larger  than  a  pea, —  stir  into 
the  mixture  a  small  cupful  of  iced-water.  Mix 
together  lightly  with  your  chopping  knife  and  just 
as  soon  as  blended  turn  out  on  your  floured  pastry- 
board.  Roll  out  lightly,  fold  in  three,  roll  out 
again,  fold  in  three  and  roll  out  once  more.  Han- 
dle the  pastry  as  little  as  possible.  After  the  third 
rolling  put  the  pastry  on  ice.  If  you  can,  it  is  bet- 
ter to  make  it  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  used  and 
leave  it  in  the  cold  until  needed.  When  you  roll  it 
out  for  the  pies,  cut  it  into  rounds  with  a  very  sharp 
knife,  and  when  you  spread  it  on  the  pie-plate  do 
not  pinch  the  edges  or  press  them.     Press  the  pas- 


72     "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

try  down  around  the  sides  and  the  bottom  of  the 
pie  plate  but  leave  the  edge  untouched. 

THANKSGIVING  CAKE 

Cream  three  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar  with  one 
cupful  of  butter;  add  one  cupful  of  milk.  Sift  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  with  four  cupfuls 
of  flour  and  beat  stiff  the  whites  of  ten  eggs.  Add 
the  flour  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  alternately  to 
the  other  ingredients.  Flavor  to  taste  with  rose- 
water.  Have  ready  two  cupfuls  of  citron  shredded 
fine  and  well  dredged  in  flour,  and  stir  this  in  last. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  or  in  small  cakes. 

TURKEY  SCALLOP 

Remove  and  chop  the  meat  from  the  bones  of 
the  turkey,  rejecting  all  gristle,  though  some  of  the 
better  pieces  of  skin  may  be  retained,  if  tender. 
Butter  a  pudding-dish  and  put  in  the  bottom  of  it 
a  layer  of  crumbs,  moistening  them  a  little  with 
milk.  On  the  layer  of  crumbs  put  one  of  the 
chopped  meat,  mingled  with  fragments  of  the 
dressing.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dot 
with  bits  of  butter.  Next  comes  another  layer  of 
the  milk-moistened  bread-crumbs,  and  so  on  until 
the  dish  is  full.     Keep  back  the  last  layer  until  you 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    73 

have  poured  into  the  scallop  the  gravy  from  the 
turkey.  If  there  "has  not  been  enough  left  to  save 
the  scallop  from  dryness,  dilute  what  you  have  with 
hot  water,  adding  butter,  or  make  more  stock  from 
the  turkey  bones. 

The  scallop  is  further  enriched  by  a  crust  made 
of  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  warm  milk,  seasoned 
with  salt  and  with  two  eggs  beaten  into  it.  This 
crust  is  to  be  spread  smoothly  over  the  top  of  the 
scallop,  stuck  thickly  with  bits  of  butter  and  cov- 
ered by  a  deep  plate  after  the  scallop  goes  in  until 
the  bubbles  begin  to  boil  up  at  the  side  of  the  dish. 
The  dish  is  then  to  be  uncovered  and  the  crust 
browned. 


IX 

Christmas  Cheer 

Christmas  was  the  great  festival  of  my  youth. 
The  preparations  for  it  began  weeks  in  advance 
with  the  making  of  mince-meat  and  "  Christmas 
cake  "  and  continued  from  then  until  the  great  day. 
There  was  enough  Dutch  blood  in  the  family,  as 
I  have  already  said,  to  insure  our  having  crullers 
as  one  of  the  items  of  the  Christmas  dinner  or  sup- 
per ;  but  there  was  much  besides  —  a  turkey,  of 
course,  and  a  dish  of  scalloped  oysters  and  sweet 
potatoes  baked  with  sugar  and  butter,  and  celery 
and  cranberry  jelly  and  plum  pudding,  as  well  as 
the  mince  pies.  The  great  feature  of  the  occasion 
was  the  little  roast  pig. 

As  the  cooks  themselves  did,  I  shall  begin  with 
the  dishes  that  had  to  be  made  before  the  great  day, 
and  give  the  direction  for  them  as  they  have  been 
handed  down  to  me  by  my  mother,  who  in  her  turn 
received  them  from  her  mother,  and  she  from  hers. 

74 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    75 

MINCE-MEAT 

Chop  fine  two  pounds  of  cold  boiled  lean  beef, 
and  mince  to  a  powder  a  pound  of  beef  kidney  suet, 
sprinkling  it  with  flour  if  it  seems  disposed  to  stick. 
Seed  and  cut  in  half  two  pounds  of  raisins,  and 
wash  and  pick  over  carefully  a  pound  of  sultana 
raisins  and  two  pounds  of  cleansed  currants.  Be 
sure  that  they  are  free  from  grit  and  dirt  before 
you  let  them  out  of  your  hands.  Peel  and  chop 
five  pounds  of  apples,  and  shred  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  of  citron.  Mix  these  all  together,  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  mace  and  cinnamon,  a 
tablespoonful  each  of  allspice  and  cloves,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  two  and  a  half  pounds 
of  brown  sugar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Put 
with  them  a  quart  of  sherry  and  a  pint  of  brandy 
and  pack  in  a  stone  crock.  If  you  do  not  use  either 
of  these  liquors  put  cider  in  its  place.  The  mince- 
meat should  mellow  for  a  week  at  least,  or  better, 
for  two  or  three,  before  it  is  used.  When  it  is 
made  up  it  would  not  be  the  pie  of  my  childhood 
or  family  tradition  if  it  were  not  baked  in  an  open 
crust  with  strips  of  paste,  the  edges  zigzagged  by  a 
"  jigging  iron,"  laid  lattice  pattern  across  the  top. 
In  my  younger  days  I  thought  all  mince  pies  were 


76    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

born  so,  as  it  were,  and  although  I  have  since  then 
eaten  good  mince  pies  with  solid  upper  crusts  they 
never  taste  quite  as  they  should.  They  lack  the 
crisscross  top. 

SUGARED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Boil  and  peel  sweet  potatoes  and  cut  them  into 
slices.  Lay  these  in  a  buttered  bake  dish,  sprin- 
kling each  layer  with  light  brown  sugar  and  bits  of 
butter,  allowing  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  each 
layer  and  at  least  the  same  quantity  of  sugar. 
When  the  dish  is  full  make  the  top  layer  of  butter 
and  sugar,  pour  in  about  half  a  cupful  of  water, — 
just  enough  to  keep  the  potatoes  from  sticking, 
cover  closely  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven  for  half 
an  hour.     Uncover  and  brown  lightly. 

ROAST  TURKEY  WITH   CHESTNUT 
STUFFING 

Wash  the  turkey  out  with  cold  water  to  which 
you  have  added  a  little  soda.  Neglect  of  this  pre- 
caution often  gives  a  strong  taste  to  the  stuffing. 
Make  a  chestnut  dressing  by  boiling  one  quart  of 
the  large  Italian  or  French  chestnuts,  shelling  and 
peeling  them  and  mashing  them  smooth.  Rub  into 
them  a  couple  of  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  season 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     -j-j 

to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  stuff  the  turkey 
with  this  as  you  would  with  any  other  dressing. 
When  it  is  in  the  bird,  sew  up  the  body  and  tie  the 
skin  covering  the  craw  opening  securely,  so  that  the 
dressing  will  not  ooze  out.  It  is  well  to  cover  the 
breast  of  the  fowl  with  slices  of  fat  salt  pork.  Put 
into  the  pan,  turn  over  it  a  cover  or  a  pan,  pour 
over  it  and  around  it  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and 
roast  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound:  baste  several 
times  with  the  gravy  in  the  pan.  For  the  gravy 
take  out  the  turkey  and  keep  it  hot,  while  to  the 
liquid  left  in  the  pan  you  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
browned  flour  wet  up  in  a  little  cold  water,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  the  giblets,  which  you  should 
have  boiled  separately.  Stir  all  well  together  and 
if  not  of  a  good  color  add  a  little  caramel  or 
kitchen  bouquet.  Boil  up  for  a  minute  and  put  into 
a  gravy  dish. 

CHESTNUTS  STEWED  IN  GRAVY 

Boil  the  large  chestnuts  for  ten  minutes,  take 
them  out,  shell  and  peel  them,  having  care  to  break 
them  as  little  as  possible.  Skim  and  strain  the 
liquor  in  which  the  giblets  were  boiled,  season  it 
to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  to  a  pint  of  it 


78    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

add  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  rubbed 
smooth  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter.  In  this  gravy 
place  the  peeled  chestnuts  and  let  them  simmer  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes  at  the  side  of  the  stove.  Serve 
as  a  vegetable. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS 

Drain  the  oysters,  arrange  them  in  the  bottom 
of  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  strew  over  them 
fine  bread-crumbs.  Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Wet  with  a  little 
oyster  liquor.  On  this  put  another  layer  of  oys- 
ters, similarly  seasoned,  then  more  crumbs,  more 
seasoning,  and  so  proceed  in  alternate  layers  until 
the  dish  is  full.  The  last  layer  should  be  of  crumbs, 
and  the  amount  of  butter  on  this  must  be  twice  as 
much  as  on  the  previous  layers.  Bake,  covered, 
for  half  an  hour. 

EGG-NOGG 

One  of  the  features  of  the  old  time  Christmas 
festivity  was  a  big  bowl  of  egg-nogg  which  was  on 
tap,  so  to  speak,  all  during  Christmas.  This  did 
not  mean  on  Christmas  Day  alone  but  all  during  the 
week  between  Christmas  and  New  Year's,  when 
merry-makings  were  constant  and  a  round  of  visits 


LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     79 


and  calls  was  in  order.  The  egg-nogg  was  brewed 
early  in  the  action  and  the  supply  was  renewed  as  it 
was  exhausted.  The  old  time  proportions  were  as 
follows:  One  quart  of  rich  milk,  six  eggs,  half  a 
cup  of  sugar,  half  a  pint  of  the  best  brandy.  The 
whites  and  yolks  were  beaten  separately,  the  whites 
to  a  standing  froth.  The  yolks  and  sugar  were 
put  together  after  the  former  had  been  whipped 
smooth  and  thick,  the  milk  was  added,  the  brandy 
stirred  in  and  last  the  yolks  were  whipped  in  lightly. 
A  little  nutmeg  was  grated  over  the  top  of  the  egg- 
nogg  after  it  was  all  mixed. 

CHRISTMAS  CAKE 

This  was  always  served  with  the  egg-nogg  and 
the  richness  of  the  combination  was  enough  to  have 
driven  those  who  partook  of  it  into  dyspepsia.  The 
fact  that  the  cake  was  eaten  in  small  quantities  may 
have  helped  save  them. 

Cream  together  a  half  pound  of  butter  and  half 
a  pound  of  sugar.  Whip  six  eggs  stiff,  whites  and 
yolks  separately,  and  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar. 
A  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  grated 
nutmeg  is  then  stirred  in,  a  cupful  of  sifted  flour, 
a   quarter   of   a   pound   of   citron,    shredded   and 


8o    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

dredged  with  flour,  a  half  pound  of  currants,  thor- 
oughly washed,  picked  over  and  dried  and  the  same 
amount  of  seeded  and  halved  raisins.  Bqth  raisins 
and  currants  are  dredged  with  flour.  Last  of  all  a 
small  glassful  of  brandy  is  added  and  the  cake  is 
baked  in  a  loaf.  The  pan  must  be  well  greased 
and  the  cake  baked  slowly,  covered,  until  it  is  nearly 
done.  This  cake  will  keep  for  months,  if  well 
wrapped  up  and  in  a  tin  box. 

CRULLERS 

Cream  together  half  a  pound  of  butter  and  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  add  to 
them  six  eggs,  beaten  light,  nutmeg  to  taste  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  which  can  be  rolled 
out  into  a  thin  sheet.  Cut  into  shapes,  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard.  Have  plenty  of  this  in  the  pan  and 
test  the  heat  before  beginning  to  cook.  The  crul- 
lers of  my  youth  were  cut  with  a  jigging  iron 
which  gave  them  adorable  crinkly  edges  and  were 
made  in  shapes  like  gridirons  as  well  as  in  rounds. 
It  is  not  only  childish  association  which  makes  me 
declare  crullers  prepared  by  the  foregoing  direc- 
tions the  best  I  ever  tasted. 


X 

A  Few  Christmas  Candies 

Who  could  imagine  a  Christmas  without  candy? 
Who  would  want  to  imagine  it? 

Yet  the  candies  are  a  serious  item  in  the  holiday 
expenses.  That  is,  if  you  get  good  ones,  and  you 
don't  want  the  cheap  sort.  Better  make  them  at 
home,  not  only  for  yourself  but  also  for  Christmas 
presents.  I  know  a  family  of  girls  who  possess 
more  good-will  than  pocket-money  and  who  always 
make  up  quantities  of  delicious  candies  for  Christ- 
mas gifts.  The  sweets  are  put  into  pretty  holly 
boxes,  tied  with  bright  ribbons  and  are  received 
with  enthusiasm.  Here  are  gifts  that  not  every 
one  can  buy.  The  shops  do  not  hold  them,  and  the 
prices  asked  for  them  at  Woman's  Exchanges  dis- 
courage most  would-be  purchasers. 

So  make  your  Christmas  candies  at  home.  You 
need  have  no  lack  of  variety,  but  I  would  recom- 
mend your  concentrating  your  attention  upon  two 
or  three  kinds  and  make  them  your  specialty. 
Candy  cookery  is  not  the  simple  thing  some  persons 

8i 


82     "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

think;  it  requires  judgment  and  experience  as  much 
as  any  other  kind  of  cooking.  Try  your  products 
on  the  family  and  intimate  friends  before  you 
reckon  on  them  as  Christmas  presents  and  don't 
put  off  making  them  until  a  day  or  two  before 
Christmas.  Have  wax  paper  a-plenty  in  which  to 
wrap  them,  and  you  may  trust  to  their  keeping  as 
well  as  those  made  by  a  confectioner. 

The  candies  mother  used  to  make  in  my  long 
ago  childhood  were  nothing  like  those  I  see  now. 
They  were  not  made  in  the  easy  modern  fashion 
but  were  boiled  and  pulled.  First  among  them 
stood 

MOLASSES  CANDY 

For  this  a  quart  of  good  molasses  is  put  over  the 
fire  with  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  half-cup  of  vinegar. 
Genuine  molasses  must  be  used, —  not  light  syrup. 
The  mixture  must  cook  together  over  the  fire  until 
a  little  of  it  hardens  when  dropped  into 
cold  water.  In  my  youthful  days  the  molasses 
would  sometimes  stew  for  a  couple  of  hours  before 
it  reached  this  point  and  the  elders  would  say  it 
was  because  the  molasses  was  raw.  In  these  later 
days  the  molasses  is  in  a  more  advanced  stage  of 
preparation  and  such  long  cookery  is  not  required. 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     83 

When  the  hardening  point  is  reached  with  the 
syrup  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  is  stirred 
in  and  a  teaspoonful  of  baking-soda,  dissolved  in 
hot  water.  The  syrup  is  poured  into  buttered  plat- 
ters and  as  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough  to  handle  with- 
out absolutely  blistering  the  skin  it  is  pulled  with 
buttered  finger  tips.  The  longer  it  is  pulled  the 
whiter  it  gets.  I  have  seen  it  pulled  into  long  rope- 
like strands  of  glistening  whiteness  and  then 
braided  into  beautiful  shining  sticks, —  but  that  was 
by  the  hands  of  those  who  had  made  an  art  of  such 
work,  and  we  children  stood  by  and  wondered  at 
the  grandmother  and  aunts  who  could  accomplish 
such  wonders. 

If  taffy  is  preferred  to  the  pulled  candy,  the  mo- 
lasses may  be  poured  in  a  shallow  sheet  into  but- 
tered pans  and  as  it  cools  be  marked  into  squares 
with  a  buttered  knife.  Nuts  or  grated  cocoanut 
may  be  added  to  different  portions  of  the  stewed 
molasses. 

SUGAR  CANDY 

This  is  made  by  cooking  together  three  cups  of 
granulated  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  and  water 
for  an  hour  without  stirring,  or  until  a  little  of  it 
dropped   from  a   spoon  crisps  in  cold   water.     A 


84    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water  are  then  turned  in  and  the 
candy  taken  from  the  fire,  to  be  pulled  or  made 
into  taffy  as  preferred. 

While  no  other  candy  can  seem  quite  the  same 
to  me  as  the  sweets  of  my  youth  I  have  found  many 
good  modern  bonbons  of  various  kinds  which  are 
easily  made  at  home. 

To  my  mind,  the  cooked  candies  are  preferable 
to  the  so-called  French  candies,  and  I  accordingly 
give  more  space  to  them. 

SEA  FOAM  FUDGE  (CHOCOLATE) 

Put  over  the  fire  in  a  clean  saucepan  one  cupful 
of  light-brown  sugar,  a  half-cupful  of  water  and 
a  third  of  a  cupful  of  grated  chocolate  and  boil  with- 
out stirring  until  it  spins  a  thread  from  the  point  of 
a  spoon.  Have  beaten  light  the  white  of  an  egg; 
pour  the  boiling  mixture  upon  it  and  stir  until  it 
begins  to  stiffen.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on  waxed 
paper  in  little  bonbons,  or  pour  into  a  greased  pan 
before  it  begins  to  stiffen  and  mark  into  squares  or 
diamonds  with  a  buttered  knife. 

SEA  FOAM  FUDGE  (NUT) 

Put  into  a  saucepan  three  cupfuls  of  light-brown 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    85 

sugar,  a  cupful  of  cold  water  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar.  Bring  this  to  the  boil  gradually  and  do 
not  stir  after  it  is  once  heated.  Boil  steadily  and 
when  a  little  of  it  dropped  into  cold  water  forms 
a  hard  ball  take  it  from  the  fire.  Whip  stiff  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  and  when  the  syrup  has  stopped 
bubbling  pour  it  on  these  and  beat  well.  When  it 
begins  to  stiffen,  flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  and  add  a  cupful  of  chopped  nut  kernels, — ■ 
hickory,  pecan  or  English  walnuts.  Drop  on  paper 
or  turn  into  a  greased  pan  and  mark  off  in  squares 
or  triangles. 

"  DIVINITY  FUDGE  " 

Boil  together  two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  maple-syrup,  one  cupful  of  water  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  until  a  little  of  it  hardens 
when  dropped  in  cold  water,  and  then  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  and  take  from  the  fire.  While 
this  mixture  has  been  cooking,  a  cupful  of  granu- 
lated sugar  should  have  been  put  over  the  fire  in 
another  saucepan,  with  a  half  cupful  of  cold  water, 
and  boiled  until  the  mixture  spins  a  thread  from  the 
tip  of  a  spoon.  The  compound  should  at  this 
stage  be  beaten  up  with  the  stifHy-whipped  whites 


86    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

of  two  eggs,  and  this  stirred  into  the  first  prepara- 
tion, which  should  by  now  have  cooled  slightly. 
Beat  the  two  hard  until  they  begin  to  stiffen,  when 
turn  in  two  cupfuls  of  chopped  nut  kernels.  Drop 
on  paper  or  pour  into  pans  and  cut  in  shapes  de- 
sired. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE 

Boil  together  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one  of 
molasses,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar.  When  a  little  of  the  syrup 
is  brittle  if  dropped  in  cold  water,  add  a  cupful  of 
peanuts  from  which  the  inner  skins  have  been  re- 
moved. Take  from  the  fire,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful 
of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water,  beat 
well  and  turn  into  greased  pans. 

POPCORN  BALLS 

Make  some  old-fashioned  molasses  candy  and 
just  before  taking  from  the  fire  stir  in  enough  pop- 
corn to  thicken  it.  After  stirring  the  mixture  for 
a  minute  set  the  kettle  at  the  side  of  the  stove,  take 
the  mixture  from  it  by  the  large  spoonful  and  lay 
each  on  greased  paper  or  a  greased  tin.  As  it 
hardens  roll  each  spoonful  into  a  ball,  greasing  the 
hands  well  first  and  roll  each  ball  over  and  over  in 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    87 

freshly-popped  corn  until  this  ceases  to  adhere  to 
the  surface.     Wrap  in  waxed  paper. 

FONDANT  FOR  CANDIES 

Put  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  cupful  of  cold  water  and  boil  without  stir- 
ring until  the  mixture  spins  a  thread  from  the  tine 
of  a  fork  dipped  into  it.  Cook  a  little  while  after 
this  until  you  can  make  a  soft  ball  with  the  fingers 
of  a  little  of  the  syrup  dropped  into  cold  water. 
Turn  then  into  a  greased  bowl  and  beat  hard  until 
it  is  smooth  and  white  and  can  be  kneaded  like 
dough  in  the  hands.  This  can  be  put  away  and 
kept  until  needed.  Formed  into  balls,  nuts  may  be 
put  on  either  side  of  it;  dates  or  raisins  may  be 
stuffed  with  a  bit  of  it,  citron  or  figs  may  be  mixed 
with  it.  It  may  also  be  used  as  the  centers  of  ordi- 
nary chocolate  creams. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS 

Melt  chocolate,  either  sweetened  or  unsweetened, 
as  you  prefer,  in  a  double  boiler,  until  it  is  thick 
and  smooth.  Make  your  fondant  into  balls  of  the 
size  you  wish,  and  stick  a  skewer  into  each  in  suc- 
cession and  immerse  the  ball  in  the  melted  choco- 
late.    Dip  each  in  several  times  until  the  coating 


88    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

is  as  thick  as  you  wish  and  then  lay  to  dry  on  waxed 
paper  or  a  greased  pan. 

NUT  CREAMS 

Stir  confectioners'  sugar  into  the  sHghtly-beaten 
white  of  an  egg  until  you  have  a  mixture  you  can 
handle.  Add  a  little  cold  water  or  S  little  cream, 
working  it  with  the  fingers  until  the  mixture  is 
putty-like  in  consistency.  Flavor  to  taste  with  va- 
nilla, rose,  almond,  lemon  —  what  you  will  —  add- 
ing more  sugar  if  the  flavoring  softens  the  mixture 
too  much.  Form  into  balls  with  the  fingers  and 
press  half  a  walnut  kernel  on  each  side  of  the  ball. 
You  can  color  this  pink  with  a  few  drops  of  cochi- 
neal. There  are  French  vegetable  colorings  with 
which  you  can  tint  your  fondant  or  cream  any  hue 
you  desire. 

MARSHMALLOWS 

To  four  ounces  of  pulverized  gum  arable  allow 
a  teacupful  of  cold  water  and  let  them  stand  to- 
gether for  two  hours.  Put  into  a  double  boiler, 
bring  the  cold  water  in  the  outer  kettle  to  the  boil- 
ing point  slowly  and  when  the  gum  arable  is  dis- 
solved, strain  it  through  coarse  muslin.  Put  it 
back  into  the  double  boiler  with  a  full  cupful  of 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    89 

powdered  sugar  and  cook  until  the  mixture  is  stiff 
and  white,  stirring  all  the  while;  take  from  the 
stove,  beat  hard  for  a  minute  before  adding  vanilla 
to  taste  and  then  beat  hard  again,  until  the  flavor- 
ing is  well  blended.  Have  square  tins  ready,  the 
insides  rubbed  thickly  with  cornstarch  and  turn  the 
mixture  into  these.  When  it  is  cool  cut  it  into 
squares  with  a  knife.  Make  a  mixture  of  corn- 
starch and  powdered  sugar,  in  the  proportion  of 
three  parts  of  the  cornstarch  to  one  of  the  sugar, 
and  roll  the  squares  of  marshmallow  in  these.  If 
they  are  not  to  be  eaten  at  once  put  them  into  a  tin 
box  or  they  will  dry  out  and  become  tough. 

CHOCOLATE  MARSHMALLOWS 

Proceed  as  in  making  marshmallows  for  the  first 
preparation.  After  straining  the  gum  arable  and 
returning  it  to  the  double  boiler  put  with  the  sugar 
added  to  it  then  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  choc- 
olate. Let  this  cook  for  over  half  an  hour  and 
then  go  on  as  with  plain  marshmallows. 


XI 

Easter  Dainties 

If  one  would  introduce  novelties  into  the  Easter 
entertainments  or  functions  they  must  lie  in  the 
deliciousness  of  the  cookery,  in  new  designs  in  fa- 
vors, and  in  unusual  forms  of  decoration.  New 
Easter  dishes  are  hard  to  find.  In  old  or  new,  the 
egg  plays  a  prominent  part,  and,  fortunately,  it 
can  be  employed  in  making  all  kinds  of  toothsome 
dainties,  recipes  for  some  of  which  are  found  be- 
low. 

An  Easter  function  at  which  one  may  have  many 
pretty  addenda  is  a  luncheon  and  for  this  what  can 
be  prettier  and  more  seasonable  than  light  green 
and  pale  gray,  or  silvery  white  ?  A  table  with  these 
decorations  has  the  centerpiece  outlined  by  a  circle 
of  maidenhair  ferns.  In  the  middle  of  the  center- 
piece stands  a  slender  vase  of  pussy  willow.  A 
half  dozen  sprigs  of  these  are  tied  with  streamers 
of  wide,  pale-green  satin  ribbon,  and  at  each  corner 

of  the  table  is  laid  one  of  these  bunches, —  one  end 

90 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    91 

of  the  ribbon  hanging  over  the  corner  of  the  table 
almost  to  the  floor,  and  the  other  end  hiding  under 
the  centerpiece.  Here  and  there  on  the  table  may 
be  dainty  bits  of  Easter  china,  for  bonbons^  salted 
almonds,  etc.,  while  at  each  place  may  stand  a 
souvenir  in  the  shape  of  a  bonbonni^re  in  some 
Easter  design.  All  sorts  of  designs  are  found  for 
these  favors.  One  looks  like  a  china  bell,  but  when 
the  bell  is  lifted  it  discloses  a  small  rabbit  rampant. 
Another  is  an  egg-shaped  receptacle,  the  handle 
consisting  of  a  china  ribbon  holding  down  the 
pretty  heads  of  three  babies  bursting  from  the  shell. 
Others  show  Japanese  maidens,  each  wrestling  with 
a  bird  that  has  just  emerged  from  an  egg. 

The  bonbons  may  be  in  an  egg  wheelbarrow  pro- 
pelled by  a  gnome;  olives  in  two  broken  eggshells, 
held  by  a  small  Dutch  girl  sitting  between  them. 
Perhaps  the  daintiest  of  all  these  novelties  are 
salted-nut  holders,  one  of  which  is  a  Dutch  child 
carrying  on  each  arm  an  egg-shaped  pail,  and  the 
other  a  rabbit  bearing  a  yoke  from  which  hang  two 
egg-shaped  holders.  One  of  these  may  contain 
salted  almonds,  the  other  salted  peanuts. 

The  prettiest  dessert  for  such  an  affair  would  be 
ice-cream  eggs  in  spun  sugar.     Any  good  confec- 


92     "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

tioner  prepares  these.  Where  this  dessert  is  out 
of  the  question  substitute  blancmange  eggs,  in  a 
nest  of  wine  jelly  and  candied  orange  straws. 

Even  the  Easter  breakfast  may  be  a  reminder  of 
the  glad  feast  day,  and  the  Easter  Sunday  night 
supper  characterized  by  some  egg  dainty.  As  at 
this  season  the  egg  is  ruler  of  the  feast,  the  house- 
wife should  remember  that  there  are  dozens  of  ways 
of  preparing  it, — ^some  time-tried,  others  rather 
unusual. 

STUFFED  EGGS 

Boil  six  eggs  for  twenty  minutes,  then  throw 
into  cold  water  to  loosen  the  shells.  Peel  care- 
fully; cut  a  bit  from  each  end  of  the  egg  so  that  it 
will  stand  upright,  then  cut  the  egg  in  half.  Mash 
the  yolks  smooth  with  a  little  melted  butter,  finely 
shredded  anchovies,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Form 
this  mixture  into  balls,  and  fit  into  the  halved 
whites.  Stand  these  on  end  in  a  fireproof  dish  and 
set  in  the  oven  until  very  hot.  Pour  a  well- 
seasoned  brown  sauce  about  the  ^gs  and  serve. 
This  is  a  very  appetizing  way  of  preparing  eggs. 

EGGS  POACHED  IN  CREAM 

Cut   rounds   of  bread,   toast  and  butter  them. 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "    93 

Dip  quickly  in  cream  and  arrange  on  a  platter.  In 
salted  boiling  cream  poach  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and 
lay  carefully  upon  the  rounds  of  toast.  Set  in  the 
oven  for  a  minute,  pour  the  heated  cream  that  is 
left  over  all,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  white 
pepper. 

RICE  AND  EGGS 

Boil  rice,  and  mix  with  it  a  little  butter.  Put 
in  a  pudding  dish,  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated 
cheese,  and  break  on  top  of  this  as  many  eggs  as 
will  lie  side  by  side.  Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese 
and  dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  in  the  oven  until 
the  eggs  are  set,  then  serve. 

EGGS  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Boil  eggs  hard,  throw  into  cold  water  and  re- 
move the  shells.  Cut  in  half,  lengthwise,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  lay  on  a  heated  dish,  and 
cover  with  a  well-seasoned  tomato  sauce. 

CREAMED  EGGS  IN  NAPPIES 

Cook  together  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  half 
as  much  flour,  and  when  they  bubble  pour  upon 
them  a  cup  of  rich  milk,  or  half  milk  and  half 
cream.     Stir  to  a  smooth  white  sauce,  season  to 


94     "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

taste  and  pour  into  heated  nappies.  Have  the 
sauce  reach  a  third  of  the  way  up  the  inside  of  the 
nappies.  Drop  an  egg  in  each,  put  a  bit  of  butter 
on  top,  and  set  in  the  oven  until  the  white  is  set. 
Send  at  once  to  the  table. 

CHEESE  AND  EGGS 

Make  a  pint  of  white  sauce  as  directed  in  the 
above  recipe,  and  when  smooth  and  thick,  stir  in 
six  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese.  Pour 
into  a  deep  china-plate,  and  break  on  top  of  this 
cheese  seven  eggs.  Set  in  the  oven  for  five  min- 
utes, and  take  out.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  water 
cress  and  serve  at  once. 

EGGS  IN  TOAST  NESTS 

Cut  six  thick  slices  of  bread,  remove  the  crusts 
and  press  a  biscuit  cutter  half  through  each  slice. 
Take  out  the  round  of  crumbs,  and  toast  the  hol- 
lowed slice  to  a  golden  brown,  then  butter.  Beat 
the  whites  of  six  eggs  very  stifif,  and  fill  the 
"  nests  "  in  the  toast  with  this,  heaping  it  high. 
With  a  spoon  make  a  hollow  place  in  the  middle  of 
each  heap  of  froth  and  drop  the  yolk  of  an  egg  in 
this.  Put  on  each  yolk  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  set  in  the  oven  until  the  white  is  a  delicate 
brown,  then  serve  on  a  parsley-garnished  dish, 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     95 

EGG  AND  CREAM  CHEESE  SALAD 

Boil  eggs  hard  and  cut  into  quarters.  With  but- 
ter paddles  make  Philadelphia  cream  cheese  into 
small  balls.  Line  a  salad  bowl  with  crisp  lettuce 
leaves,  lay  the  cheese  balls  and  eggs  in  this,  and  pour 
a  French  dressing  over  all.  Some  people  think  that 
this  salad  is  improved  by  having  finely-cut  celery 
sprinkled  over  eggs  and  cheese. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI  OMELET 

Beat  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separate,  then 
mix  lightly  together  and  pour  into  an  omelet  pan. 
Have  ready-mixed  blanched  and  chopped  almonds 
of  English  walnuts,  minced  citron,  candied  orange- 
peel,  a  few  crystalized  or  Maraschino  cherries,  a 
very  little  minced  crystalized  ginger,  and  three  or 
four  seeded  and  chopped  raisins.  When  the  omelet 
is  set  and  ready  to  fold  spread  with  the  mixed 
fruits,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  fold  over, 
sprinkle  with  more  powdered  sugar,  and  transfer 
to  a  hot  platter.  Pour  over  it,  or  around  it,  a  hot 
wine  or  Maraschino  sauce,  and  eat  immediately. 

AN  EASTER  NEST 
Make  a  blancmange  with  a  quart  of  milk,  an 
ounce  of  gelatine,  and  a  scant  cup  of  sugar.     Di- 


96    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

vide  into  three  portions,  color  one  brown  by  the 
addition  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  chocolate, 
the  second  pink  with  a  little  cochineal  and  leave 
the  other  white.  For  several  days  in  advance  egg- 
shells should  have  been  saved,  after  the  contents  to 
be  used  in  cooking  have  been  emptied  through  a 
small  hole  in  the  end  of  the  ^g.  Rinse  these  out 
with  cold  water  and  fill  with  the  blancmange. 
Make  a  good  wine  jelly,  fill  a  dish  two-thirds  full 
of  it,  lay  in  the  blancmange  eggs,  when  they  are 
firm,  breaking  the  shells  from  them  carefully,  pour 
the  rest  of  the  jelly  over  them,  garnish  with  pre- 
served orange  peel,  laying  it  pretty  thickly  over  the 
top  and  when  ready  for  the  dish,  which  should  be 
kept  in  a  cold  place  until  then,  turn  it  out  on  a  flat 
salver  or  platter. 


XII 

Uncommon  Ways  to  Cook  Common 
Vegetables 

When  summer  ends  the  difficulties  of  the  house- 
keeper in  catering  for  her  household  begin ;  that  is, 
of  the  housekeeper  who  lives  in  the  country,  or  who, 
living  in  the  city,  has  little  money  to  spend  on  her 
table.  The  woman  with  a  full  purse  can  buy 
forced  vegetables  all  the  year  round,  the  woman 
who  lacks  either  the  money  or  the  opportunity  to 
purchase  these  must  study  to  devise  variety  in  the 
ways  of  preparing  what  she  has. 

The  supply  of  winter  vegetables  is  necessarily 
limited,  unless  one  turns  to  canned  articles.  This 
seems  almost  an  extravagance  when  the  cellar  is 
stocked  with  carrots,  parsnips,  turnips,  potatoes, 
beets,  onions,  and  cabbages,  with  perhaps  a  small 
lot  of  celery,  salsify,  cauliflower  and  the  like. 
There  are  dried  vegetables,  too,  peas,  lima  beans, 
and  possibly  corn,  that  has  been  salted  down  or 
otherwise  preserved.     How  is  one  to  cook  these 

97 


98    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

so  that  the  eaters  shall  not  weary  of  the  sequence  ? 
The  following  recipes  are  designed  especially  to 
meet  this  want.  They  are  neither  elaborate  nor 
expensive  and  deal  with  what  the  most  moderate 
housekeeper  is  likely  to  have  in  the  house  or  to  be 
able  to  secure  in  the  country  or  the  small  town. 
Even  the  dweller  in  cities  may  try  some  of  the 
dishes  with  a  surety  of  being  Satisfied  with  the  re- 
sults. 

STEWED  CARROTS 

Wash  the  carrots,  scrape  off  the  skin,  and  cut 
into  bits.  'Lay  in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  then 
place,  still  wet,  in  a  double  boiler,  and  stew  gently 
until  thoroughly  tender.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  turn  into  a  deep  dish.  Cover  with  a  white 
sauce. 

MASHED  CARROTS  AND  TURNIPS 

Prepare  the  carrots  as  in  the  preceding  recipe, 
cover  with  salted  water  and  boil  until  tender. 
Dfain  and  mash  very  soft  with  a  little  butter.  Cook 
turnips  and  mash  them.  Beat  the  two  vegetables 
together  to  a  soft  mass,  heap  in  the  center  of  a 
dish,  set  in  the  oven  until  smoking-hot,  and  serve. 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     99 

FRIED  TURNIPS 

Peel  and  slice  the  turnips,  and  throw  into  cold 
water.  At  the  end  of  half  an  hour  drain  and  put 
over  the  fire  in  the  saucepan  with  a  little  salted 
water.  Cook  until  they  begin  to  get  tender,  or  un- 
til a  fork  pierces  them  easily.  Be  careful  not  to 
break  them;  drain  and,  when  cold,  pat  them  dry 
between  the  folds  of  a  towel.  Dip  first  in  cracker- 
crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker- 
crumbs.  Lay  on  a  dish  in  the  ice-box  for  the  crust 
to  harden.  Fry  in  butter  to  a  light  brown.  Serve 
very  hot. 

SCALLOPED  CELERY 

The  coarse  outer  stalks  of  celery  may  be  used  for 
this  dish.  Cut  into  inch  lengths,  and  cover  with 
salted  water.  Stew  until  tender.  Drain,  and  keep 
hot  while  you  make  a  white  sauce  by  cooking  to- 
gether a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour,  and 
when  these  bubble,  pouring  upon  them  a  cup  of 
milk.  Stir  to  a  smooth  white  sauce,  put  the  celery 
into  this,  and  turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish. 
Dust  the  top  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  set  in  the 
oven  until  lightly  browned.  This  is  a  simple  and 
very  palatable  dish. 


loo    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

SALSIFY  FRITTERS 

Scrape  the  salsify  and  grate  fine.  Make  a  bat- 
ter of  a  cup  of  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Beat  hard,  then  whip  in 
the  salsify.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  drop 
by  the  spoonful  into  deep,  boiling  fat.  Fry  to  a 
golden-brown. 

RICED  POTATOES 

Boil  white  potatoes  until  tender,  then  mash, 
adding  a  little  butter  as  you  do  so.  When  very 
smooth  rub  through  a  colander  or  strainer  upon  a 
heated  dish,  mounding  them  high  upon  this.  Set 
in  the  oven  until  the  apex  of  the  mound  begins  to 
brown  lightly,  then  serve. 

STUFFED  POTATO  BOATS 

Bake  potatoes  and  cut  them  with  a  sharp  knife 
in  halves,  lengthwise.  Scoop  out  the  insides,  and 
mash  with  a  little  cream,  melted  butter  and  salt 
and  white  pepper  to  taste.  Pack  this  mixture  back 
into  the  halved  cases,  laying  them  in  rows  on  a 
platter.  On  the  top  of  each  potato  "  boat "  thus 
made  put  a  great  spoonful  of  meringue  made  by 
beating  the  whites  of  two  eggs  very  light.     Set  at 


LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     loi 


once  in  the  oven  and  leave  there  just  long  enough 
for  the  meringue  to  color  at  the  edges. 

BEETS  STUFFED  WITH  LIMA  BEANS 

Choose  the  small  dried  beans  and  soak  all  night ; 
in  the  morning  boil  until  tender  in  salted  water  and 
drain.  Boil  large  red  beets  of  uniform  sizes,  and, 
wrhile  hot,  hold  firmly  with  a  cloth  and  rub  ofif  the 
skins.  Set  aside  until  cold,  then  scoop  out  the  in- 
sides.  Leave  the  beans  and  beets  on  the  ice  for  sev- 
eral hours  before  using.  Mix  the  beans  with  a 
French  dressing,  fill  the  hollowed  beets  with  them, 
and  set  each  beet  on  a  leaf  of  lettuce,  pouring  the 
French  dressing  over  all.     Serve  very  cold. 

LENTILS 

Soak  the  lentils  in  water  overnight.  Drain,  and 
cover  with  salted  boiling  water.  Boil  for  an  hour, 
drain,  and  cover  with  more  boiling  water  and  cook 
until  quite  soft,  but  not  broken.  Drain  very  dry, 
melt  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  and,  when  slightly  browned,  put  in  an  onion 
cut  into  tiny  bits.  Stir  for  several  minutes,  then 
turn  in  the  lentils.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of 
browned  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of.  vinegar. 
Cook,  stirring  to  a  smooth  mass,  and  serve. 


I02     "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

STUFFED  CABBAGE 

Wash  a  cabbage,  and  lay  it  in  salted  water  for  an 
hour,  pulling  the  leaves  apart,  but  not  breaking 
them  off.  Then  place  it  in  salted  boiling  water 
and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Drain,  and  when  cold, 
stand  on  end  and  put  between  the  leaves  a  force- 
meat made  by  mixing  a  cup  of  chopped  roast  meat, 
—  beef,  mutton  or  veal, —  with  half  as  much  fine 
crumbs,  and  moistening  all  with  weak  stock.  Be- 
gin this  stuffing  process  at  the  center  of  the  cabbage, 
filling  all  interstices  carefully.  When  the  force- 
meat is  all  used,  press  the  leaves  into  place  and 
wrap  the  cabbage  in  a  strip  of  cheese  cloth.  Put 
carefully  into  boiling  water  and  boil  for  a  little 
over  an  hour.  Lay  the  cabbage  on  a  platter,  care- 
fully remove  the  cheese  cloth  and  pour  over  the 
cabbage  a  good  brown  sauce. 

SAVORY  CABBAGE  LEAVES 

Choose  the  large  firm  leaves  of  a  cabbage.  In 
the  center  of  each  leaf  put  a  spoonful  of  minced 
beef  mixed  with  a  little  minced  ham.  Fold  the  leaf 
about  this  mixture  and  skewer  with  a  tiny  toothpick 
so  that  it  will  not  come  open.  Lay  all  the  leaves 
thus  prepared  side  by  side  in  a  baking-pan  and  pour 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     103 

a  little  stock  about  them.  Cover  and  bake  for 
twenty  minutes.  With  a  cake  turner  lift  each  leaf 
carefully  from  the  pan  to  a  heated  platter  and  keep 
this  hot  while  you  add  a  little  strained  tomato  to 
the  liquor  in  the  pan  and  thicken  it  with  browned 
flour.  Season  to  taste  and  pour  over  the  cabbage- 
leaves  on  the  dish. 

CABBAGE  AND  CHEESE 

Boil  the  cabbage  in  two  waters,  drain  and,  when 
cold,  chop  it.  Put  a  layer  of  it,  well  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper,  in  a  buttered  bake  dish.  Pour 
on  this  a  white  sauce,  made  by  cooking  together  a 
tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour  until  they 
bubble,  mixing  with  these  a  cupful  of  milk  and  stir- 
ring all  until  thick  and  well  blended.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  On  the  white  sauce,  when  it  has 
been  poured  over  the  cabbage,  sprinkle  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  grated  cheese.  Put  in  more  cab- 
bage, and  repeat  the  sauce  and  cheese  until  the  dish 
is  filled,  making  cheese  with  a  few  fine  crumbs  the 
last  layer.  Bake,  covered,  about  half  an  hour,  then 
uncover  and  brown. 

FRIED  CAULIFLOWER 

Boil  a  cauliflower  until  just  done,  then  drain. 


I04    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

When  cold  cut  into  tufts  of  uniform  size.  Make  a 
batter  of  a  gill  of  milk,  a  beaten  egg,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  and  one  or  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour, —  or  enough  to  make  the  batter 
of  the  right  consistency  for  frying.  Dip  each  tuft 
of  cauliflower  in  this  batter,  turning  it  over  and 
over  to  coat  thoroughly,  then  drop  in  deep  boiling 
lard.  As  soon  as  they  are  light  brown  in  color,  re- 
move with  a  perforated  spoon,  and  lay  on  brown 
paper  to  drain  dry.     Serve  very  hot. 

CAULIFLOWER  BOILED  WITH  TOMATO 
SAUCE 

Soak  a  fine  cauliflower  in  cold  salt  water  for  an 
hour,  then  plunge  in  salted  boiling  water  and  cook 
for  a  half  hour  or  until  tender.  Transfer  to  a  hot 
dish.  Bring  the  contents  of  a  half  can  of  tomatoes 
to  a  boil,  cook  for  a  minute,  strain,  season  with 
onion-juice,  salt  and  pepper,  and  thicken  with  a  lit- 
tle flour  rubbed  into  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Stir  until  smooth.  Break  the  cauliflower  into  bits 
of  uniform  size,  put  into  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  the 
tomato  sauce  over  it. 

STUFFED  ONIONS 

Boil  until  tender,  but  not  broken,  large  Bermuda 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     105 

onions.  Drain,  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle, 
take  out  the  centers  with  a  small  knife.  Chop 
enough  ham  to  make  a  cupful,  add  to  it  half  as  much 
fine  crumbs,  and  mix  all  to  a  soft  paste  with  a  little 
cream,  and  one  beaten  egg.  Season  to  taste,  and 
put  this  mixture  into  the  centers  of  the  onions. 
Put  in  the  top  of  each  onion  a  bit  of  butter.  Place 
the  onions  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake 
slowly  until  tender  all  through.  Three-quarters  of 
an  hour  should  be  time  enough.  Serve  with  or 
without  a  white  sauce. 

BROWNED  ONIONS 

Peel  onions  and  boil  until  tender.  Pack  in  a  but- 
tered pudding  dish.  Pour  melted  butter  over  each 
onion,  then  sprinkle  very  lightly  with  sugar.  This 
will  not  affect  the  taste  if  used  sparingly,  and  will 
assist  in  the  browning  process.  Now  cover  each 
onion  with  fine  cracker-dust,  and  sprinkle  this  with 
bits  of  butter.  Set  in  a  quick  oven  and  cook  until 
very  brown. 

FRIED  APPLES  AND  ONIONS 

These  form  a  novel  dish,  but  are  delicious  if 
eaten  with  strips  of  fried  bacon.  Do  not  peel  the 
apples  but  slice  them  crosswise,  having  the  slices 


io6    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

a  half-inch  thick.  Have  the  onions  parboiled,  and 
cold.  With  a  sharp  knife  slice  these  rather  thinner 
than  the  apples.  Cook  slices  of  bacon  crisp  in  a 
pan,  and  remove  them  to  a  hot  platter.  Fry  the 
onions  and  apples  side  by  side  in  the  bacon-fat,  un- 
less there  is  not  enough  of  this,  in  which  case  add 
a  little  butter.  When  brown,  put  the  onions  and 
apples  on  a  hot  platter  and  arrange  strips  of  fried 
bacon  about  the  edge  of  the  platter.  Serve  very 
hot,  and  as  free  from  grease  as  possible.  To  at- 
tain this  end  it  is  well  to  lay  each  one  of  the  fried 
slices  on  tissue  paper  for  a  minute  after  taking  it 
from  the  pan. 

PARSNIP  BALLS 

Boil  parsnips  and  mash  them  as  you  would  po- 
tatoes. To  two  cups  of  the  mashed  parsnips  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  one  tgg. 
Form  this  mixture  into  small  balls  and  set  in  the  ice- 
chest.  Leave  for  two  hours,  then  drop  in  boiling 
fat  and  fry.  These  are  a  nice  accompaniment  to 
roast  or  broiled  meat. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUFF 

Boil  sweet  potatoes,  peel  them,  and,  while  hot, 
mash.     Add  melted  butter  and  milk  until  you  have 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     107 

a  soft  mass,  then  whip  in  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
enough  cream  to  make  a  very  soft  mixture.  Add 
salt  and  turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake 
to  a  golden-brown.     This  is  delicious. 

SAVORY  POTATOES 

Peel  and  cut  into  small  cubes  eight  large  pota- 
toes. Boil  until  tender  in  salted  water,  into  which 
you  have  stirred  two  stalks  of  celery,  cut  up  small, 
and  half  a  minced  onion.  Drain  the  potatoes  from 
the  water,  and  stir  them  into  a  cup-and-a-half  of 
white  sauce,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Turn 
into  a  buttered  pudding-dish  and  bake  to  a  light 
brown. 

SCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES  AND 
BACON 

Parboil  and  peel  sweet  potatoes.  Chop  six  slices 
of  cold  fried  bacon  small.  Put  the  sliced  potatoes 
into  a  bake-dish,  sprinkling  them,  as  you  proceed, 
with  the  minced  bacon.  Sprinkle  the  top  of  the 
potatoes  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  pour  a  cupful 
of  soup  stock  over  all.  Bake  for  three-quarters  of 
an  hour. 


XIII 

Cooking  of  Dried  and  Smoked  Meats 
and  Fish 

Fresh  meat  is  by  no  means  an  every-day  affair  in 
the  country  or  the  village  during  the  winter.  The 
butcher  makes  his  rounds  in  the  more  closely  set- 
tled districts,  but  his  visits  are  few  and  far  between 
in  the  farming  regions  when  the  drifts  are  high. 
The  farmer's  family  must  fall  back  upon  dried  and 
smoked  meats  and  fish,  and  try  to  make  these  so 
savory  that  the  lack  of  fresh  meat  may  not  be  too 
much  felt. 

Not  for  a  moment  am  I  advocating  meats  and 
fish  preserved  in  this  fashion  as  equal  in  digesti- 
bility or  nourishing  qualities  to  the  fresh  products. 
But  when  one  can  not  get  what  one  wants,  it  is  the 
part  of  wisdom  to  make  the  best  of  what  one  has, 
and  there  is  no  sense  in  taking  it  for  granted  that 
variety  is  impossible  when  one  must  rely  upon 
corned  or  smoked  pork  in  some  of  its  several  forms, 
and  must  make  salt  cod  or  finnan  haddie  or  herring 
take  the  place  of  fresh  fish. 

io8 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     109 

STUFFED  CORNED  HAM 

Soak  a  corned  ham  for  several  hours,  putting  it 
into  warm  (not  hot)  water  to  soften  a  little.  At 
the  end  of  the  two  hours,  remove  the  bone  with  a 
long,  sharp  knife,  and  fill  the  cavity  thus  left  with 
a  stuffing  made  of  bread-crumbs  moistened  with 
soup  stock  or  with  hot  water  into  which  a  great 
spoonful  of  butter  has  been  stirred.  Season  with 
pepper,  salt,  onion- juice,  and  a  dash  of  tomato  cat- 
sup. When  the  cavity  is  packed  tightly  with  this 
mixture,  sew  a  piece  of  cheese  cloth  about  the  ham 
and  put  over  the  fire  in  cold  water.  Bring  slowly  to 
a  boil  and  cook  until  done,  allowing  twenty  minutes 
to  each  pound  of  the  meat.  Let  the  meat  get  cold 
in  the  liquor,  then  transfer  to  a  platter,  remove  the 
cloth,  and  cut  off  the  skin  carefully.  Sprinkle  wtih 
pepper,  and  serve  garnished  with  parsley. 

ROAST  HAM 

Scrub  a  smoked  ham  well  and  soak  all  night,  then 
boil  according  to  the  foregoing  recipe,  skin,  but  do 
not  remove  the  bone.  When  thoroughly  cold,  rub 
well  with  cooking  sherry  and  put  into  a  covered  » 
roaster.  Make  a  paste  of  flour  and  water,  and 
plaster  this  thickly  over  the  skinned  side  of  the 


no    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

meat.  Put  in  the  bottom  of  the  roaster  a  sauce 
made  of  a  gill  of  sherry,  a  cup  of  water,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  molasses.  Cover  the  roaster,  and  cook 
for  half  an  hour,  uncovering  it  half  a  dozen  times 
to  baste  with  the  liquid.  At  the  end  of  half  an 
hour  leave  uncovered  long  enough  to  brown  lightly. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

APPLES  AND  BACON 

Wipe  off  large  pippins  or  other  firm  apples  and 
slice,  but  do  not  peel  them.  Fry  in  a  pan  a  dozen 
thin  slices  of  bacon  until  crisp,  then  transfer  to  a 
hot  platter  and  keep  warm  in  the  open  oven  while 
you  fry  the  sliced  apples  in  the  bacon  fat  until 
lightly  browned.  Put  the  apples  in  the  center  of 
the  platter,  and  arrange  the  slices  of  bacon  around 
them. 

FRIED  PORK  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE 

Soak  salt  pork  for  an  hour,  then  cut  into  slices. 
Boil  for  three  minutes  in  a  little  water,  drain,  and 
wipe  dry.  Place  in  a  frying-pan  and  fry  until 
done,  but  not  dried.  Transfer  to  a  hot  dish,  and 
thicken  the  grease  left  in  the  pan  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour.  Stir  until  you  have  a  smooth  paste, 
then  pour  on  slowly  a  cup  of  cream  to  which  a 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     iii 

pinch  of  baking  soda  has  been  added,  and  stir  to  a 
smooth  white  sauce.  Season  with  a  dash  of  pepper, 
and  pour  over  the  sliced  pork.     Serve  very  hot. 

SAUSAGE  AND  POTATO  ROLL,  BAKED 

Fry  sausage  until  done,  then  chop  fine.  Boil  and 
mash  six  potatoes,  beating  out  all  lumps ;  add  a  cup 
of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  enough 
salted  flour  to  make  a  dough.  Put  upon  a  floured 
pastry  board,  roll  into  a  sheet,  and  place  the 
.sausage-meat  in  the  center  of  the  sheet.  Roll  the 
dough  up  with  the  meat  in  the  center,  as  one  would 
prepare  a  roly-poly  pudding.  Put  in  a  baking-pan 
brush  with  melted  butter,  and  bake.  Serve  as  soon 
as  done. 

PORK  AND  BEANS  WITH  TOMATO 
SAUCE 

Soak  a  pint  of  beans  all  night  in  water  that  is 
warm  when  poured  over  them.  In  the  morning 
boil  until  tender.  Chop  half  a  pound  of  parboiled 
salt  pork  very  fine.  Make  a  tomato  sauce  by  stir- 
ring into  a  cup  of  tomato  liquor  from  canned  or 
fresh  tomatoes  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in 
one  of  flour,  and,  when  this  is  thick,  seasoning  well 


112     "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

with  sugar  and  salt,  and  with  onion- juice  and  pepper 
to  taste. 

In  the  bottom  of  a  deep  baking  dish  put  a  layer 
of  the  minced  pork,  then  a  thick  layer  of  the  beans, 
and  over  these  pour  a  little  tomato  sauce.  Put  in 
more  pork,  more  beans  and  more  sauce,  and  pro- 
ceed in  this  way  until  the  dish  is  full.  Sprinkle  the 
top  of  the  mixture  with  very  finely  minced  salt 
pork.  Add  enough  tomato- juice,  poured  in  care- 
fully, to  prevent  the  contents  becoming  dry.  Bake, 
covered  closely,  for  two  and  one-half  hours,  then 
uncover  and  brown. 

SALT  PORK  PIE 

Soak  a  half  pound  of  salt  pork  all  night.  In  the 
morning  boil  until  done,  putting  in  the  cold  water 
which  is  poured  over  it  a  sliced  onion  and  two  sliced 
turnips.  Simmer  until  the  onion  is  a  soft  pulp  and 
the  turnips  are  very  tender.  Take  out  the  pork  and 
cut  into  small  dice,  and  strain  out  the  onion  and 
turnips.  Put  a  layer  of  the  pork  in  a  deep  dish, 
cover  with  a  layer  of  sliced  boiled  potatoes,  sprin- 
kle these  with  bits  of  butter,  and  with  a  little  flour 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  then  put  in  the  sliced 
turnips.     Add  enough  of  the  liquor  in  which  the 


LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     113 


pork  was  boiled  to  fill  the  dish.     Cover  with  a  light 
pastry  and  bake  to  a  golden-brown. 

BARBECUED  HAM 

Fry  slices  of  boiled  ham  until  done  to  the  desired 
crispness,  then  keep  hot  while  you  add  to  the  fat  in 
the  pan  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar,  a  wineglassful  of  vinegar  and  a  dash 
of  pepper.     Boil  up  and  pour  over  the  ham. 

SCALLOP  OF  CORNED  BEEF  AND 
CABBAGE 

Chop  fine  enough  cold  corned  beef  to  make  a 
pint.  Chop  an  equal  quantity  of  boiled  cabbage. 
Cook  together  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of 
flour  and  pour  upon  them  a  cup  of  tomato  liquor. 
Stir  to  a  smooth  sauce,  and  season  with  a  half-tea- 
spoonful  of  onion- juice,  a  little  kitchen  bouquet,  and 
a  dash  of  pepper.  Mix  the  cabbage  and  the  corned 
beef  together,  and  stir  the  tomato  sauce  thoroughly 
into  them.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and 
sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs.  Set  in  the  oven, 
covered,  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  uncover  and 
brown.     Serve  very  hot. 

FISH  BALLS 

Soak  salt  codfish  overnight  in  cold  water.     Drain 


114    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

and  put  over  the  fire  in  cold  water,  and  bring  slowly 
to  a  boil.  Cook,  changing  the  water  once  for  fresh 
hot  water,  for  half  an  hour.  Mash  to  a  cream  half 
as  much  potato  as  you  have  fish,  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  melted  butter  and  one  of  cream.  Mix  in  a 
double  boiler  over  the  fire,  that  the  mixture  may  get 
very  hot.  Whip  in  gradually  a  well-beaten  egg, 
and  beat  hard  for  several  minutes.  Set  aside  until 
cool,  form  into  balls,  and  set  on  ice  for  an  hour  at 
least  before  frying  to  a  golden-brown  in  deep  fat. 
Drain  in  a  heated  colander.  These  are  very  good, 
and  much  more  delicate  than  the  traditional  "  cod- 
fish ball." 

CREAMED  CODFISH 

Soak  and  boil  the  cod  as  directed  in  the  foregoing 
recipe,  and  flake  to  small  bits  with  a  silver  fork. 
Cook  together  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  one 
of  flour,  and  pour  upon  them  a  cup  of  milk.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  and  beat  in,  gradually,  the 
fish.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  heated  through,  then 
serve  on  a  platter  and  surround  the  mound  of  fish 
with  triangles  of  toast. 

BROILED  SALT  MACKEREL 

Soak  the  mackerel  and  wash  well.     Put  over  the 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     115 

fire  in  cold  water  and  bring  to  a  boil;  then  change 
the  water  for  fresh,  which  should  be  boiling  when 
poured  on.  At  the  end  of  twenty  minutes  drain 
the  fish,  and  lay  in  a  mixture  of  two  parts  salad  oil 
and  one  part  vinegar  or  lemon-juice.  Leave  for 
ten  minutes,  then  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  Serve 
with  a  white  sauce. 

FINNAN  HADDIE 
This  may  be  cooked  according  to  the  recipe  for 
broiled  salt  mackerel. 

SCALLOPED  CODFISH  AND  POTATOES 

Mash  enough  potatoes  to  make  a  pint;  soak,  boil 
and  flake  a  pint  of  codfish.  Make  a  white  sauce, 
and  stir  into  a  pint  of  this  a  cup  of  grated  cheese. 
Put  a  layer  of  the  fish  in  a  pudding  dish,  or  in  small 
individual  nappies,  cover  with  a  stratum  of  mashed 
potatoes,  and  pour  some  of  the  white  sauce  over 
this.  Put  in  another  layer  of  codfish,  and  another 
of  the  potatoes,  then  more  white  sauce  until  the 
dish  is  full.  Strew  grated  cheese  over  the  top 
layer,  which  should  be  the  cream  sauce,  and  bake 
for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  very  hot. 


XIV 
Hot  Weather  Suggestions 

It  is  much  easier  to  keep  good-natured  in  cold 
weather  than  in  hot.  One  may  be  uncomfortable 
in  cold  weather,  but  there  is  seldom  the  active  irri- 
tability present  that  there  is  when  the  thermometer 
begins  to  soar.  Sometimes  it  seems  as  if  one's  for- 
titude and  powers  of  endurance  and  self-control 
had  exuded  with  the  perspiration,  or  as  if  they 
were  of  those  chemical  compounds  which  evaporate 
and  disappear  with  a  high  degree  of  heat. 

This  would  not  be  so  bad  if  the  capability  for  vig- 
orous expression  were  to  vanish  with  them;  but 
whereas  the  cold  may  have  the  effect  of  numbing 
and  checking  the  flow  of  eloquence,  hot  weather 
seems  to  encourage  an  outpouring  of  language.  The 
woman  who  will  attain  a  state  of  deadly  quiet  in  a 
zero  temperature  will  express  herself  only  too  freely 
when  the  nineties  are  reached. 

I  don't  wish  to  condemn  such  persons.     My  heart 

opens  with  unfeigned  sympathy  to  those  who  detest 

hot  weather  and  whose  tempers  show  this  detesta- 

ii6 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     117 

tion  by  putting  forth  thorns.  The  cold  blasts  of 
winter  may  not  tend  to  amiability,  but,  compared 
with  the  torrid  breath  of  summer,  they  are  as  noth- 
ing in  the  way  of  provocation  of  plain,  old-fash- 
ioned crossness.  All  the  beauties  of  the  green 
things  "  agrowing  and  ablowing  "  can  not  make  up 
to  some  of  us  for  the  agonies  of  the  heated  term. 

Since  there  has  yet  been  no  practical  discovery 
made  by  which  the  temperature  may  be  lowered  to 
suit  the  tastes  of  the  heat-haters,  the  only  thing  that 
one  who  suffers  from  the  excessive  warmth  can  do 
is  to  make  an  attempt  to  keep  the  temper,  at  least, 
in  cold  storage.  It  doesn't  sound  like  an  easy  feat, 
perhaps  —  though  it  sounds  easier  than  it  is.  Yet 
this,  or  something  like  it,  is  the  only  means  by  which 
one  may  render  life  tolerable  to  herself  and  to  those 
about  her  during  the  dog  days. 

In  the  first  place,  don't  begin  to  lose  your  temper. 
Avoid  occasions  of  provocation.  Stop  arguments. 
Don't  put  yourself  into  a  position  where  you  will  be 
subject  to  irritation.  There  is  neither  rhyme  nor 
reason  in  pleading  "  Lead  us  not  into  temptation," 
and  then  putting  a  leading  rope  into  the  possession 
of  a  person  or  of  a  set  of  circumstances ! 

The  housekeeper  should  make  an  especial  study 


ii8    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

of  hot-weather  tactics.  She  should  resolve  to  take 
life  coolly  and  not  to  do  so  much  for  her  family 
that  she  will  be  worn  out  and  make  them  more  un- 
comfortable by  her  depression  or  crossness  than  she 
has  made  them  comfortable  by  her  good  cookery. 
The  much  bepraised,  much  bejeered  simple  life 
should  be  followed  as  far  as  possible.  "  Fussy " 
dressing  should  be  abjured.  All  living  should  be 
done  on  the  most  agreeable  plan. 

I  know  this  is  against  the  principle, —  and,  alas ! 
against  the  practice, —  of  our  Puritan  ancestors  and 
of  too  many  of  their  descendants.  But  bear  in  mind 
that,  while  it  may  be  well  enough  to  seek  troubles 
when  you  think  life  is  too  pleasant,  you  will  have  no 
need  of  going  in  search  of  annoyance  during  the  hot 
weather.  The  summer  insects,  the  summer  heat  and 
the  summer  dust  will  provide  you  with  a  fine  assort- 
ment of  trials  while  you  wait.  You  need  not  go  out 
of  your  way  to  look  for  them. 

This  may  seem  like  rank  nonsense  to  the  summer 
worshipers,  who  are  never  happier  than  when  the 
mercury  starts  on  a  steady  climb.  How  we  others 
envy  them!  But  let  me  say  to  those  thrice-fortu- 
nate souls  —  and  bodies :  —  Have  patience  with 
those  who  are  less  lucky !     You  may  not  be  able  to 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     119 

understand  the  peculiarly  trying  experience  of  wilted 
collars,  stringy,  curlless  hair,  shining  and  moist  face, 
and  perspiring  body,  but  at  least  try  to  appreciate 
what  the  effect  of  these  must  be  upon  the  sufferers. 
Make  allowances  for  their  irritability  in  hot  weather. 
Remove  from  them,  as  far  as  you  can,  occasions  of 
oflFense.  Aid  them  to  convert  the  hot-weather  tem- 
per into  something  less  terrifying  than  it  is  in  many 
cases.  Be  indulgent  to  them  and  help  them  to  keep 
cool  by  encouraging  them  to  be  indulgent  with  them- 
selves. 

If  you  are  a  housekeeper  seek  means  for  keeping 
the  members  of  your  family  comfortable  in  the 
summer. 

Make  your  food  simple.  Try  to  establish  for 
your  table  a  different  standard  than  that  of  heavy 
plenty.  The  merest  tyro  in  dietetics  knows  that 
meat  and  fats  are  not  essential  to  the  system  during 
the  heated  term.  Most  people  understand,  too,  that 
less  food  is  needed  when  the  mercury  is  in  the  nine- 
ties than  when  it  is  hovering  about  the  freezing 
mark. 

Don't  overwork  your  digestion  when  it  is  so  hot 
that  you  spare  the  rest  of  your  physical  mechanism 
as  much  hard  labor  as  possible;  and  when  you  fill 


I20    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

your  stomach  give  it  something  it  can  take  care  of 
easily.  The  very  indications  of  the  season  are  so 
many  finger  posts  teUing  what  food  is  convenient  for 
us  at  this  time  of  year.  Now  is  the  day  and  the 
hour  of  fruits  and  vegetables.  Never  are  they  so 
plentiful,  so  cheap,  or  so  good  as  in  midsummer, — 
and  this  is  an  exception  to  the  general  rule  that 
makes  things  cheap  and  nasty  or  delicious  and  costly. 
So,  eat  vegetables.  I  do  not  advise  you  to  turn 
vegetarian,  for  we  are,  as  a  rule,  carnivorous  enough 
to  crave  a  bit  of  meat  for  a  relish,  if  no  more.  For 
the  benefit  of  those  who  think  work  can  not  be  ac- 
complished except  upon  a  meat  diet,  no  matter  what 
the  season,  I  will  repeat  the  statement  of  an  expert  in 
dietetics,  who  informed  me,  a  good  deal  to  my  dis- 
comfiture, that  one  can  work  longer  without  getting 
hungry  on  a  meal  of  vegetables  than  on  one  of  flesh. 
The  latter  is  rapidly  digested,  but  a  meal  of  vegeta- 
bles is  said  to  stay  by  the  eater  for  six  hours.  I 
dare  say  its  abiding  power  varies  with  the  rapidity  or 
slowness  of  the  individual  eater's  digestive  processes, 
but  the  mere  fact  that  it  will  linger  by  anyone  for 
that  space  of  time  is  encouraging  to  those  who  ofifer 
vegetables  to  their  families  in  hot  weather.  There  is 
relief  in  the  thought  that  one  can  supply  craving  na- 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     121 

ture  and  cut  down  the  butcher's  bills  with  the  same 
action. 

Cook  your  vegetables  carefully,  as  a  matter  of 
course.  Don't  serve  them  watery  and  overdone. 
Give  a  little  attention  to  them  and  don't  think  that 
anyone  can  cook  vegetables.  Anyone  can't !  There 
is  as  much  difference  between  vegetables  well  cooked 
and  poorly  cooked  as  betWeen  steak  or  pastry  under 
similar  conditions.  It  is  worth  while  to  add  that 
well-served  vegetables  demand  so  much  butter  in 
their  dressing  that  no  one  need  be  afraid  of  not  re- 
ceiving a  sufficient  proportion  of  fat  in  a  vegetable 
diet. 

Study  simplicity  in  the  make-up  of  your  meals. 
Summer  is  not  the  season  for  long  sessions  at  table 
and  for  heavy  course  meals  once  you  are  there. 
Have  fruit  a-plenty  at  breakfast, —  berries,  peaches, 
pears,  plums,  and,  above  all,  melons,  which  are  the 
best  of  breakfast  fruits.  Have  a  cereal  and  omit 
meat  altogether.  Dwell  lightly  upon  it  at  the  later 
meals.  Use  salads  freely,  and  more  fruit,  as  well 
as  the  vegetables.  I  know  of  one  family  where  a 
regular  dinner  is  abjured  in  summer,  and  in  its  place 
are  offered  a  substantial  lunch  at  noon,  and  a  heavy 
supper  at  night.     The  plan  may  be  worth  trying. 


XV 
Hot  Weather  Recipes 

ICED    AND    JELLIED    CHICKEN 
BOUILLON 

Cover  a  large  jointed  fowl  with  cold  water.  Set 
at  the  side  of  the  range  where  it  will  come  slowly  to 
a  boil,  and  simmer  steadily  for  four  hours.  At  the 
end  of  that  time,  take  from  the  fire,  season  with  cel- 
ery salt,  onion  juice,  and  white  pepper  and  set  away 
to  get  very  cold.  Skim  off  all  fat,  and  strain  out 
the  bones  and  meat,  and  return  to  the  fire  with  a 
quarter-box  of  gelatine  that  has  soaked  for  an  hour 
in  a  gill  of  cold  water.  As  soon  as  the  gelatine  is 
thoroughly  dissolved,  take  the  soup  from  the  fire, 
strain  through  a  flannel  jelly  bag,  and  set  aside  to  get 
cool.  When,  cold,  put  in  the  ice  chest.  Serve  this 
jellied  bouillon  in  chilled  cups,  laying  a  sprig  of  pars- 
ley on  each  cup.  Bouillon  prepared  and  served  in 
this  way  is  nourishing  and  palatable  without  being 
heating. 

ICED  CLAM  AND  CHICKEN  BOUILLON 

This  is  a  pleasant  variation  of  the  above  recipe. 

122 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     123 

After  carefully  washing  the  shells  of  a  dozen  hard- 
shelled  clams,  lay  them  in  a  stewpan,  add  a  half  gill 
of  scalding  water,  cover  closely,  and  set  at  the  side 
of  the  range  until  the  shells  are  wide  open  and  the 
clam  juice  flows  freely.  Strain  this  off,  boil  up 
once,  set  aside  until  cold,  and  strain  through  cheese 
doth.  Set  in  the  ice  until  very  cold.  Have  ready 
iced  chicken  bouillon  made  according  to  the  forego- 
ing recipe,  omitting  the  gelatine.  Stir  the  clam  juice 
into  this,  season  to  taste,  and  serve  in  chilled  cups 
with  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream  on 
the  surface  of  each  cup. 

CREAMED  AND     WHIPPED  CODFISH 

Flake  into  tiny  bits  enough  cold  boiled  cod  to 
make  two  cupfuls  of  the  fish.  For  this  amount  al- 
low two  cups  of  rich  milk  and  one  cup  of  cream. 
Heat  the  milk  and  stir  the  fish  gradually  into  it. 
Bring  to  the  scalding  point,  and  whip  in  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter  rubbed  into  one  of  flour. 
Beat  steadily  until  the  fish  becomes  very  thick,  then 
put  in  the  cream,  to  which  has  been  added  a  pinch 
of  baking  soda.  Stir  until  the  boiling  point  is 
again  reached,  take  from  the  fire  and  whip  hard  for 
a  minute  before  pouring  on  rounds  of  heated  toast 


124    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

from  which  the  crust  has  been  pared.  Lay  a  slice 
of  hard-boiled  egg  on  top  of  each  mound  of  the 
creamed  fish.     This  is  a  delicious  dish. 

LOBSTER  OR  CHICKEN  SOUFFLE 

Into  two  cups  of  finely  minced  boiled  salmon  or 
lobster,  stir  the  whipped  yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  cup 
of  cream,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter.  Add 
a  dash  of  cayenne,  salt  to  taste,  and  flavor  with  a 
little  lemon- juice.  Beat  hard  for  five  minutes. 
Have  ready  stiffened  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  fold 
these  in  lightly  and  quickly,  pour  all  into  a  buttered 
pudding-dish  and  bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a  steady 
oven.     Serve  at  once. 

BROILED  SARDINES 

Select  large,  firm  sardines  for  this  dish.  Drain 
off  the  oil.  Place  the  sardines  on  an  oyster-broiler 
and  cook  over  a  clear  fire  just  long  enough  to  heat 
them  through.  Lay  each  sardine  on  a  long  and 
narrow  strip  of  toast  that  has  been  spread  with  an- 
chovy paste. 

CHEESE,  RICE  AND  EGGS 

Into  a  pint  of  rice,  boiled  so  that  every  grain 
stands  separate,  beat  five  eggs.     Cook,  stirring,  for 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     125 

three  minutes.  Whip  to  a  light  mass,  season  to 
taste,  turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  pour  a  white  sauce 
made  thick  with  grated  cheese  over  the  mixture. 

GREEN  CORN  OMELET 

Grate  the  kernels  from  six  ears  of  boiled  corn. 
Heat  in  a  saucepan  with  a  gill  of  milk  and  two  ta- 
blespoon fuls  of  melted  butter.  Take  from  the  fire 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  beat  into  the 
corn  mixture  the  whipped  yolks  of  five  eggs,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  and  turn  into  a  heated  and 
greased  omelet  pan,  folding  in  the  stiffened  whites 
just  before  doing  this.  Cook  until  set,  then  double 
over  and  serve. 

FRIED  TOMATOES 

Wipe,  but  do  not  peel,  large  tomatoes.  Cut  into 
thick  slices  with  a  very  sharp  knife,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  egg  and  then  in  cracker-dust, 
and  set  in  the  ice  chest  for  an  hour  before  frying 
in  hissing  butter. 

STUFFED  AND  BAKED  TOMATOES 

Cut  a  slice  off  the  stem  end  of  large  firm  toma- 
toes. Scoop  out  the  inside,  leaving  a  thick  wall  of 
the  tomato.     Mix  the  pulp  with  half  a  green  pep- 


126    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

per,  chopped  fine,  a  tablespoonful  of  rice,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Return  this  mixture  to  the 
tomatoes,  and  place  a  thick  bit  of  cheese  on  the  top 
of  the  tomato.  Bake  until  tender.  The  cheese 
melting  and  running  down  into  the  tomato-mixture 
imparts  a  delicious  flavor. 

ANCHOVY  AND  TOMATO  TOAST 

Toast  slices  of  bread,  spread  thickly  with  an- 
chovy paste  or  with  minced  anchovies.  Place  on  a 
hot  dish  and  pour  a  well-seasoned  tomato  sauce 
over  all. 

BAKED  EGGPLANT 

Boil  an  eggplant  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain,  and 
when  cold,  cut  into  halves,  lengthwise,  and  scoop 
out  the  insides.  Chop  the  pulp  and  mix  with  it  an 
equal  quantity  of  cold  minced  chicken,  veal,  or  ham, 
a  handful  of  bread-crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt 
and  lemon-juice  to  taste,  and  a  generous  spoonful 
of  melted  butter.  Mix  thoroughly,  return  to  the 
halved  vegetable,  and  cover  the  top  with  browned 
crumbs.  Put  into  a  baking-pan,  pour  in  seasoned 
stock  deep  enough  to  come  one- fourth  up  the  side 
of  the  eggplant,  and  bake  for  nearly  an  hour,  bast- 
ing frequently.     Transfer  to  a  hot  dish,  add  onion- 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     127 

juice,  salt  and  pepper  to  the  sauce  in  the  pan,  thicken 
with  a  brown  roux,  and  pour  about  the  eggplant. 

BAKED  CUCUMBERS 

Wipe  off  large  cucumbers,  and  split  them  from 
end  to  end.  Take  out  the  pulp  from  the  centers, 
not  stopping  to  reject  the  seeds.  Put  the  pulp  into 
a  chopping  bowl  and  add  half  a  tomato,  one-half  a 
green  pepper  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Chop  all  very 
fine,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  buttered  crumbs,  and  a 
little  melted  butter.  Return  this  mixture  to  the  cu- 
cumbers, place  a  bit  of  butter  on  the  rounded  top  of 
each,  and  bake  for  an  hour.  Serve,  if  you  wish, 
with  melted  butter  sauce. 

EGG  AND  ANCHOVY  SALAD 

Remove  the  skin  from  six  anchovies.  Peel  and 
cut  into  halves  six  hard-boiled  eggs.  Rub  the  an- 
chovies to  a  paste  with  a  little  butter,  and  add  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs.  Season  to  taste,  adding  butter 
or  salad  oil  until  you  have  a  smooth,  soft  mass. 
Roll  this  mixture  into  balls  the  size  of  egg-yolks 
and  replace  these  in  the  halved  whites.  Stand  these 
on  end,  heaping  the  anchovy  mixture  on  them. 
Place  in  a  bed  of  crisp  lettuce  and  serve  with  a 
mayonnaise  dressing. 


128     "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

MIXED  SALAD 

Mix  together  a  quarter  cup  of  boiled  and  peeled 
potatoes,  cut  into  dice  a  quarter  cup  of  turnips,  pre- 
pared in  the  same  way,  the  same  quantity  of  boiled 
beets  and  celery,  cut  into  small  bits  of  uniform  size, 
and  a  half-cup  of  cold  boiled  peas  and  a  half-cup 
of  string  beans,  cut  into  quarter-inch  lengths.  Stir 
well  together,  add  six  stoned  and  chopped  olives, 
three  small  pickles,  minced,  and  stir  in  a  good 
French  dressing.  Line  a  salad  bowl  with  lettuce 
and  heap  this  mixture  in  the  center. 

TOMATO  AND  CRESS  SALAD 

Wipe  lafge  tomatoes  and  scoop  out  the  insides. 
To  three  parts  of  this  pulp  add  one  part  of  chopped 
green  peppers,  from  which  all  seeds  and  white 
membrane  have  been  removed,  and  two  parts  of 
water  cress  that  has  been  quickly  broken,  not 
chopped,  into  tiny  bits.  Return  this  mixture  to 
the  tomato  shells,  stand  each  tomato  on  a  leaf  of 
lettuce,  and  pour  a  great  spoonful  of  mayonnaise 
over  each.  In  the  top  of  each  tomato  stick  a  sprig 
of  water  cress. 

ORANGE  AND  BANANA  SALAD 

Those  who  are  fond  of  the  sweet  fruit  salad  now 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     129 

so  popular  will  like  the  following  combination :  Peel 
and  slice  four  oranges  and  three  bananas.  Place  in 
a  chilled  bowl  in  alternate  layers,  and  pour  over 
them  a  dressing  made  of  a  wineglassful  of  sherry, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  Maraschino,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and,  if  it  is  wished,  a  little 
lemon-juice.  Decorate  the  dish  with  Maraschino 
cherries.     Serve  at  once. 

PEACH  WHIP 

Soak  a  half-box  of  gelatine  in  a  gill  of  cold  water, 
then  cover  with  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Rub  a 
pint  of  stewed  peaches  through  a  sieve,  and  add  the 
liquor  or  syrup  in  which  they  were  cooked.  Stir 
this  into  the  dissolved  gelatine,  and  flavor  to  taste 
with  lemon-juice.  Set  in  the  ice  chest  until  thor- 
oughly cold.  As  it  begins  to  stiffen  beaf  in  the 
whipped  whites  of  three  eggs.  When  you  have  a 
thick  mass,  turn  into  a  mold  wet  with  cold  water, 
and  set  in  the  ice  until  wanted.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  This_  dessert  may  also  be  made  of  apricots 
or  any  other  stewed  fruit. 


XVI 
System  in  Housekeeping 

This  is  the  day  of  housekeeping  made  easy.  The 
old-fashioned  housekeeper  gasps  with  wonder  when 
she  goes  through  a  modern  house-furnishing  shop. 
Everything  seems  to  have  been  done  to  simpHfy 
and  adorn  the  work  of  keeping  house,  and  a  mere 
man,  or  a  woman  lacking  in  experience,  might 
think  the  life  of  a  home  maker  should  be  nothing 
but  a  round  of  gayety  and  pleasure. 

Yet  with  all  this  there  seem  to  be  no  more  hours 

in  a  day  than  there  were  before  so  many  of  the 

fairy  tales  of  inventions  were  realized.     There  are 

still  hordes  of  women  who  do  nothing  but  keep 

house  and  never  finish  with  that.     Sometimes  there 

appear  to  be  even  more  of  them  than  in  the  days 

before  cookery  by  gas  or  electricity  was  heard  of, 

when    meat-choppers,    egg-beaters,    cream-churns, 

and  all  the  other  labor-savers  were  unknown.     Still 

is  there  an  endless  succession  of  tasks  placed  before 

woman,  and  still  she  makes  her  plaint  that  while 

130 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     131 


men's  work  may  end  with  set  of  sun,  a  woman's 
work  is  never  done. 

It  is  very  easy  to  declare  what  must  be  the  fault 
—  to  lay  it  to  over-elaborateness  of  living,  to  an 
eagerness  to  keep  up  with  one's  neighbors  and  to 
get  ahead  of  them,  to  raise  a  cry  for  enforcing  sim- 
plicity of  life  and  discarding  draperies,  bric-a-brac, 
course  dinners,  and  afternoon  tea.  We  all  attempt 
too  much, —  there  is  no  doubt  of  that.  Our  desires 
are  larger  than  our  abilities  in  most  directions.  And 
yet,  my  own  impression  is  that  much  of  the  hurried 
and  harassed  character  of  the  housekeeper's  life  is 
due  to  the  lack  of  system  in  planning  work  and  exe- 
cuting it. 

There  is  nothing  new  in  this  suggestion.  But 
like  a  good  many  old  truths,  it  will  stand  repetition. 
I  do  not  intend  to  weaken  the  suggestion  by  declar- 
ing housekeeping  to  be  an  exact  science.  No 
women  that  have  ever  kept  house  would  believe  me. 
They  know  better.  The  Prayer-book  phrase, 
"  Changes  and  chances  of  this  mortal  life,"  might 
have  been  framed  to  apply  to  housekeeping.  The 
only  other  avocation  that  can  compare  with  it  is 
that  of  the  farmer,  who  must  be  dependent  upon 
the  elements  for  the  success  of  his  harvest  as  much 


132    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

as  upon  the  work  he  puts  into  it.    He,  too,  may  do 
his  utmost  and  have  little  to  show  for  it. 

One  great  objection  to  considering  housekeeping 
as  a  science  is  that  in  it  so  much  allowance  has  to 
be  made  for  the  human  equation.  Sometimes  one 
has  to  allow  for  two  or  three  of  them.  When  a 
woman  does  all  her  own  work  she  has  to  make  pro- 
vision only  for  her  own  physical  and  mental  wear 
and  tear  —  and  those  of  her  family, —  but  when 
she  has  to  employ  maids  the  situation  becomes 
complicated. 

In  spite  of  all  the  checks  and  disasters  that  are 
almost  bound  to  occur  in  every  household  sooner 
or  later,  I  still  hold  firmly  to  the  faith  that  system, 
more  than  anything  else,  will  come  nearest  to  solv- 
ing the  difficulties.  Housekeeping  cannot  be  con- 
ducted to  advantage  on  a  hit-or-miss  plan.  "  Let 
us  not  anticipate  "  may  be  an  admirable  motto  so 
far  as  most  of  life's  trials  are  concerned,  but  it 
does  not  serve  when  one  comes  to  housekeeping. 
That  is  a  section  of  existence  in  which  intelligent 
planning  and  fulfillment  count  for  much. 

The  majority  of  American  wives  keep  their  own 
houses  — ^  when  they  do  not  board.  A  hired  house- 
keeper is  an  exception.     The  wife  must  have  the 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     133 

ends  of  all  the  threads  in  her  hands,  and  must  know 
where  each  one  leads. 

There  is  little  use  in  trying  to  lay  down  a  stated 
outline  for  keeping  house.  Each  housekeeper  must 
work  out  her  own  salvation  in  the  domestic  line. 
Now  and  then  one  meets  a  woman  who  was  born 
systematic,  but  many  more  have  achieved  system. 
It  is  really  not  so  difficult  a  business,  after  all,  when 
one  goes  about  it  in  the  right  fashion. 

One  of  the  first  things  for  the  woman  struggling 
for  system  to  do  is  to  try  to  get  the  work  of  her 
house  in  perspective.  This  is  not  easy.  It  is  a 
truism  that  women  are  lacking  in  a  sense  of  propor- 
tion, and  it  is  not  a  simple  matter  for  one  of  them 
to  get  herself  mentally  far  enough  from  her  work 
to  decide  the  relative  importance  of  each  item.  But 
she  must  do  it,  if  she  is  to  develop  her  system  of 
work  in  the  right  way.  She  should  mentally  range 
her  duties  in  order,  and  divide  them  into  what  must 
be  done  and  what  may  be  done  if  circumstances 
permit.  The  first  list  will  be  long  enough,  but  the 
second  will  exceed  it.  The  chief  trouble  with 
housekeepers  is  that  they  get  the  items  of  the  two 
lists  mingled  and  confused. 

For  instance:  washing  and  ironing  and  baking 


134    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

and  sweeping  and  scrubbing  must  be  done.  Enter- 
taining and  making  fresh  curtains  and  trying  a  new 
kind  of  cake  or  salad  may  be  done.  The  first  can- 
not be  crowded  out,  except  in  extreme  cases.  The 
second  may  be  postponed,  if  necessary,  without  im- 
periling the  health  and  happiness  of  any  member  of 
the  family. 

After  the  two  sets  of  duties  are  tabulated  with 
tolerable  correctness,  comes  the  planning  as  to  how 
and  when  they  shall  be  done.  This  is  pleasanter 
work  than  the  first,  but  it  takes  a  good  deal  of 
thought. 

Our  duties  must  dovetail  and  fit  into  each  other. 
Certain  things  must  be  done  early  or  they  will  be 
an  annoyance  to  us  all  day.  Of  these  are  dusting, 
dish-washing,  bed-making,  and  all  the  other  neces- 
sary straightening  and  putting  to  rights  of  the 
house.  To  go  at  other  work  while  these  tasks  are 
undone  is  sure  to  make  confusion.  Yet  in  how 
many  homes  do  you  see  just  this  fault?  The  dishes 
are  left  standing  while  some  piece  of  fancy  cooking 
is  undertaken,  and  I  have  even  known  homes  where 
the  beds  stood  unmade  while  the  mistress  of  the 
house  sat  calmly  down  with  a  bit  of  sewing  which 
could  just  as  well  have  waited  until  later.     I  do  not 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     135 

deny  that  there  is  a  certain  agreeable  sense  of  lux- 
ury and  dissipation  in  doing  this  sort  of  thing  — 
just  as  there  is  in  settling  yourself  to  finish  a  thrill- 
ing story  or  dip  into  a  new  magazine  while  there  is 
work  waiting  for  you.  But  we  are  not  talking  of 
what  brings  passing  enjoyment,  but  of  the  true  com- 
fort that  follows  the  practice  of  system.  It  is  fun 
to  do  the  untimely  things  that  are  easy  and  pleas- 
ant, but  it  is  most  tiresome  to  turn  about  after- 
wards and  dispose  of  the  hard  things. 

The  system  that  the  housekeeper  tries  to  practice 
herself  she  should  insist  on  with  her  servants.  They 
do  not  always  take  kindly  to  it,  and  very  often  life 
is  a  good  deal  of  a  grind  until  they  have  been  drilled 
into  the  habits  of  the  house.  The  line  upon  line 
and  precept  upon  precept  principle  must  be  followed 
and  the  maid  told  daily,  if  needful,  that  she  must 
brush  down  the  stairs,  sweep  out  the  halls,  dust  this 
room  or  that,  clean  the  bath-room,  wash  the  dishes, 
and  do  the  bedroom  work  in  a  certain  fixed  se- 
quence. To  keep  her  in  this,  the  mistress  must  be 
rigorous  with  herself  and  go  to  the  kitchen  to  in- 
spect supplies  and  to  give  her  orders  at  a  stated  time 
each  day. 

Orderliness  is  a  part  of  this  same  system.     The 


136    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

rule  of  "  a  place  for  everything  and  everything  in 
its  place  "  must  be  enforced.  The  maid  must  keep 
her  kitchen  cupboards  in  as  good  order  as  her 
china-closets,  and  if  she  does,  in  a  little  while  she 
will  become  so  familiar  with  the  location  of  each 
utensil  and  each  piece  of  china  or  glass  that  she 
could  find  it  in  the  dark.  There  should  be  no  lib- 
erty allowed  of  keeping  a  thing  in  one  place  at  one 
time  and  in  another  some  other  time.  This  may 
seem  a  trifle,  but  all  these  trifles  do  their  part  in 
creating  an  orderly  and  systematic  habit  of  mind. 
Do  not  permit  the  maid  to  leave  the  dishes  standing 
around  after  they  have  been  washed,  but  teach  her 
that  it  is  as  essential  to  put  these  away  as  soon  as 
they  are  clean  as  it  is  for  her  to  wash  her  dish 
towels  and  hang  them  out  to  dry  once  a  day  or  to 
keep  the  sink  spotless  and  odorless. 

Try  to  cultivate  system  in  your  maid  in  other 
ways.  Impress  it  upon  her  that  she  must  let  you 
know  as  soon  as  the  supply  of  any  article  is  ex- 
hausted, and  not  wait  till  there  is  need  for  it  again 
before  she  discloses  to  you  the  fact  that  it  is  wanted. 
To  help  her  in  this  hang  in  your  kitchen  a  small 
pad  of  paper  and  a  pencil,  and  instruct  her  that  as 
soon  as  she  uses  the  last  of  any  provision  she  is  to 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE'*    137 

write  the  name  of  this  on  the  slip,  that  it  may  serve 
as  a  memorandum  when  you  go  to  market. 

If  the  maid's  memory  is  poor,  encourage  her  to 
make  notes  of  the  items  of  the  work  she  has  to  per- 
form. In  a  way,  this  may  not  develop  her  memory 
so  well  as  charging  her  mind  with  the  details,  but 
there  are  many  of  us  whose  remembrances  need  a 
crutch  now  and  then.  One  of  the  most  competent 
and  systematic  housekeepers  I  know  makes  out  her 
bills  of  fare  for  a  week  in  advance,  writes  them 
down  and  pins  up  the  list  in  the  kitchen  pantry  to 
serve  as  a  reference  both  for  herself  and  for  the 
maid.  This  does  not  commend  itself  to  me  espe- 
cially, in  spite  of  my  respect  for  the  judgment  of 
this  systematic  friend.  My  own  experience  has 
been  that  any  plan  for  meals  is  modified  greatly  by 
circumstances.  One  cannot  always  know  how 
much  will  be  eaten  of  this  or  that,  what  will  be  left 
over  and  may  be  used  to  supplement  other  pro- 
visions.    Still  the  plan  is  worthy  of  consideration. 

There  is  an  acknowledged  system  in  the  days  and 
seasons  for  performing  certain  duties.  The  first 
two  days  of  the  week  are  for  laundry  work,  some 
sweeping  is  done  on  Wednesday,  Thursday  is 
usually  the  maid's  afternoon  out,  and  the  morning 


138    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

may  be  given  to  cleaning  the  silver  and  brasses. 
Friday  there  is  more  sweeping  to  be  done,  and  per- 
haps washing  of  windows,  while  Saturday  is  given 
over  to  finishing  off  undone  cleaning  and  making 
the  house  and  the  larder  ready  for  Sunday.  All  or 
any  of  these  regulations  the  housekeeper  may  fol- 
low or  modify  to  suit  her  own  convenience.  The 
only  inevitable  thing  is  that  she  must  determine 
upon  some  special  routine  of  work,  and  having 
adopted  it,  stick  to  it,  unless  there  is  some  excellent 
reason  for  changing. 

I  am  not  trying  to  put  housekeepers  into  a  tread- 
mill or  fit  them  in  a  machine  from  which  they  can- 
not escape.  I  hold  very  strongly  that  the  woman 
should  keep  the  house,  and  not  the  house  the  woman. 
Yet  I  think  that  the  practice  of  system,  and  a  pretty 
strict  system,  too,  tends  to  make  the  care  of  the 
house  far  less  of  a  burden  and  exaction  than  the 
happy-go-lucky,  go-as-you-please  plan  —  or  lack  of 
plan  —  when  the  only  thing  that  seems  to  be  sure  is 
that  much  will  be  left  undone  until  just  the  time 
when  one  least  wants  to  do  it. 

Once  started  in  the  path  of  system,  the  house- 
keeper will  find  that  her  facility  in  simplifying  and 
classifying  work  grows.     She  will  discover  new 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     139 

ways  and  means  for  making  her  work  scientific  and 
orderly  and  for  saving  time.  The  planning  ahead 
is  a  great  thing.  The  thrifty  housekeeper  does  not 
wait  until  she  actually  needs  something  before  she 
secures  it,  but  sees  that  her  life-boats  and  life-pre- 
servers are  in  good  working  order  while  the  fine 
weather  holds. 

A  forehanded  housekeeper  learns  to  make  pro- 
vision for  emergencies.  She  carries  into  other 
lines  of  housekeeping  the  principle  of  the  old  woman 
who,  when  she  lay  dying,  beckoned  her  daughter 
to  her  and,  as  the  mourner  bent  above  her  for  a 
parting  message,  whispered  with  her  last  breath, 
"Always  keep  hot  water  in  the  kettle."  (I  won- 
der what  she  would  have  said  if  she  had  known  a 
gas-stove!)  The  housekeeper  with  foresight  is  not 
taken  by  surprise  when  emergencies  present  them- 
selves. Perhaps  she  is  like  a  clever  woman  I  have 
heard  of  who  keeps  an  "  emergency  cupboard." 
She  lives  at  some  distance  from  shops  and  she  has 
a  cupboard  stored  with  dainties  that  are  never  to  be 
used  except  in  an  emergency.  Sardines  are  here, 
and  potted  chicken  and  biscuits  of  various  sorts, 
and  a  jar  or  two  of  jelly  and  jam  and  good  pre- 
serves, and  a  small  pot  of  cheese,  and  other  things 


I40    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

that  will  help  to  make  out  a  meal  in  case  of  unex- 
pected guests.  As  soon  as  one  of  the  articles  has 
been  used  it  is  immediately  replaced,  and  the  closet 
is  never  invaded  except  for  a  real  emergency.  That 
is  a  systematic  woman! 

Or  the  housekeeper  of  this  type  may  show  her 
system  in  another  way.  She  may  plan  her  work 
so  as  to  do  in  odd  moments  the  task  that  otherwise 
she  would  have  to  set  aside  for  a  special  season. 
Such  a  woman  takes  advantage  of  a  cool  morning 
when  work  is  light  to  go  into  her  kitchen  and  pre- 
pare dainties  that  may  be  required  at  a  future  time. 
She  conducts  her  housekeeping  on  the  plan  that 
was  followed  by  Nicholas  Nickleby  when  "  he  dis- 
tended his  stomach  with  a  bowl  of  porridge  —  not 
that  he  needed  it  now,  but  that  he  thought  he  might 
need  it  later  when  he  couldn't  get  it.''  So  the 
housekeeper  makes  pastry  on  Wednesday  that  she 
may  not  need  until  pie-making  time  on  Saturday, 
and  puts  it  away  on  the  ice.  Or  she  prepares  may- 
onnaise for  a  near  future.  She  always  has  fondant 
for  icing  on  hand,  and  jars  of  white  roux  and 
brown  roux,  so  that  she  does  not  have  to  bother 
with  measuring  out  her  butter  and  flour  when  she 
is  in  a  hurry  for  a  white  or  brown  sauce.     She 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     141 

makes  maitre  d'hotel  butter,  too,  in  advance,  and 
glaze,  and  lemon  honey  for  filling  layer  cakes,  and 
caramel  for  coloring  soups  and  gravies,  and  all  the 
other  little  adjuncts  of  delicate  cookery.  It  would 
be  a  good  deal  of  an  undertaking  to  give  a  couple 
of  days  to  the  compounding  of  all  these,  but  by  her 
system  she  is  able  to  fit  in  half  an  hour  there  and 
fifteen  minutes  somewhere  else  and  thus  see  that 
her  larder  is  always  kept  supplied  with  these  ar- 
ticles. Yet  she  never  misses  the  time  she  gives  to 
the  work. 

One  woman  I  know  puts  up  most  of  her  jelly 
in  this  way.  She  does  her  own  work,  and  while 
she  is  getting  the  breakfast  she  will  slice  a  few  ap- 
ples and  put  them  over  the  fire,  or  start  to  sim- 
mering at  the  side  of  the  stove  a  small  amount  of 
grapes  or  berries,  or  whatever  fruit  is  in  season. 
By  the  time  she  has  eaten  her  breakfast  and  done 
her  dishes  the  fruit  is  ready  to  be  put  in  the  jelly- 
press  and  she  returns  the  juice  to  the  fire,  brings 
it  to  a  boil,  adds  the  sugar,  and  has  the  jelly  in  the 
glasses  before  the  morning  is  much  more  than 
fairly  begun.  She  does  not  make  more  than  two 
or  three  or  four  glasses  at  a  time.  Sometimes  it 
is  only  a  single  glass  made  from  fruit  that  is  left 


142     "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

over  from  a  meal,  which  will  not  keep  until  the 
next  day.  But  little  by  little  she  does  it,  and  by 
the  end  of  the  fruit  season  she  has  a  good  array 
of  jams  and  jellies  on  her  pantry  shelves,  and  they 
have  all  come  there  a  few  at  a  time. 

This  same  kind  of  system  enables  its  possessor 
to  spare  herself  in  a  multitude  of  ways.  If  she 
is  to  have  company  for  dinner  she  plans  the  meal 
so  that  she  can  make  many  of  the  preparations 
early  in  the  day  and  allow  herself  to  rest  in  the 
afternoon  and  come  fresh  to  the  table.  There  are 
always  things  that  cannot  be  done  until  the  last 
moment,  but  that  is  all  the  more  reason  for  getting 
the  others  out  of  the  way  betimes.  We  have  heard 
of  that  dinner  at  which  the  first  course  was  "  hot 
hostess,"  and  many  of  us  have  been  at  such  func- 
tions. There  is  a  different  kind  of  an  appetizer  at 
the  dinner  of  the  systematic  housekeeper. 

One  does  not  achieve  a  perfect  method  in  a  mo- 
ment, and  as  I  have  said  before,  there  is  always 
the  personal  equation  to  be  reckoned  with.  Maids 
will  fall  sick  or  lose  relatives  or  become  recalci- 
trant. Accidents  will  occur  now  and  then.  But 
with  system  even  these  tribulations  may  be  reduced 
to  a  negligible   quantity.     Possibly  not  the  least 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     143 

valuable  part  of  system  is  the  eflfect  it  has  upon  its 
possessor  in  the  way  of  enabling  her  to  keep  a 
calmness  of  spirit  and  a  control  of  nerves  in  the 
face  of  contretemps. 


XVII 

Home-made   Aids  to  House- 
keeping 

The  chapter  upon  "  Systematizing  the  House- 
keeping "  mentions  a  number  of  articles  the 
housekeeper  may  prepare  in  odd  moments.  It  is 
one  thing  to  read  over  a  list  of  such  things;  it  is 
quite  another  to  know  how  to  prepare  them.  The 
average  housekeeper  is  the  possessor  of  one,  pos- 
sibly two,  or  even  three  cook-books.  To  these  she 
flies  when  the  unfamiliar  dish  is  prescribed.  If 
she  fails  to  find  it  in  one  of  these  volumes,  she 
is  absolutely  at  a  loss.  For  most  women  have  not 
yet  formed  the  habit  of  going  to  a  reference  li- 
brary to  hunt  up  this  or  that  unusual  recipe  from 
the  cook-books  marshaled  there. 

The  most  up-to-date  cook-books  contain  many  of 

the  small  foreign  adjuncts  to  cookery  that  are  so 

essential  to  the  housewife  who  desires  to  set  on 

small  means  a  "  dressy  table,"  as  I  once  heard  a 

woman  call  it.     The  adjective  did  not  apply  to  the 

144 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     145 

literal  table,  but  to  the  menu  that  included  entrees 
and  made  dishes.  For  the  proper  compounding 
of  these  the  housekeeper  must  have  a  store  of  con- 
diments in  her  pantry  —  not  only  the  articles  she 
buys  at  the  fancy  grocery,  but  those  she  can  make 
herself  in  the  odd  moments  above  referred  to. 
They  are  real  labor  and  time-savers  in  the  end, 
and  if  she  prepares  them  one  or  two  at  a  time,  she 
never  misses  the  minutes  she  puts  into  them  — '  and 
it  costs  far  less  to  make  them  than  to  buy  them. 

Prominent  among  the  aids  to  housekeeping  come 
the  white  and  the  brown  roux. 

To  make  the  first  of  these,  which  is  more  popu- 
larly known  as  "  white  thickening,"  melt  together 
half  a  pound  each  of  butter  and  flour  in  a  porce- 
lain-lined saucepan,  stirring  them  constantly  to  pre- 
vent scorching.  As  soon  as  the  mixture  is  hot 
through,  and  well  blended  —  as  it  will  be  if  the 
stirring  is  unremitting, —  pack  it  into  small  jars; 
cover  these  to  keep  out  the  dust  and  set  in  a  cool 
place.  Jelly-glasses  with  tops  are  excellent  to  keep 
it  in.  When  you  wish  a  white  sauce,  all  you  have 
to  do  is  to  take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  this  roux, 
put  it  into  a  half-pint  of  milk  over  the  fire,  and 
stir  until  the  sauce  is  the  consistency  of  double 


146    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

cream.  Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper.  To 
make  it  a  Httle  richer  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter just  before  the  sauce  goes  to  table. 

A  brown  roux  is  made  with  the  same  proportions 
of  butter  and  flour,  but  the  mixture  is  stirred  un- 
til it  is  of  a  bright  brown.  It  is  then  put  away 
as  the  white  roux  has  been.  This  rouXj  or  "  brown 
thickening,"  is  used  as  the  white  roux  would  be, 
except  that  it  is  dissolved  in  a  half-pint  of  broth 
or  of  meat  stock,  instead  of  in  milk.  Suitable 
seasonings,  such  as  onion- juice,  catsup,  and  the 
like,  can  be  added  to  taste. 

Sometimes  the  gravy  made  in  this  fashion  is  not 
the  rich  brown  one  desires.  To  produce  this  color 
it  is  well  to  have  a  little  caramel  coloring  at  hand. 
To  prepare  it  put  in  a  small  granite  saucepan  over 
the  fire  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water  with  six  of 
granulated  sugar.  Boil  them  quickly  for  ten  min- 
utes. At  the  end  of  this  time  the  compound  will 
become  yellow,  and  then  go  to  brown  and  black. 
When  it  is  very  black  and  looks  like  molasses,  pour 
into  it  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  boiling  water  and  stir 
until  it  is  dissolved.  There  will  be  more  or  less 
sputtering  at  first,  but  when  this  has  quieted  down 
let  the  mixture  boil  to  a  syrup,  and  bottle  it.     A 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     147 

few  drops  of  this  will  color  a  gravy  a  shade  of  deep 
brown,  and  the  caramel  will  keep  for  any  length  of 
time.  Because  of  the  sputter  and  smell  of  burnt 
sugar  it  is  well  to  make  it  when  company  is  not  im- 
mediately expected. 

Tomato  paste  is  another  good  thing  to  have  in 
the  house,  and  may  be  made  when  tomatoes  are 
plenty.  Half  a  peck  of  tomatoes,  a  carrot,  and  an 
onion  may  be  sliced  together,  and  to  them  is  added 
a  good-sized  bunch  of  celery  cut  into  pieces,  leaves 
as  well  as  stalks.  Boil  all  very  slowly  until  they 
are  a  soft  paste  that  can  be  put  through  a  vege- 
table-press. Return  this  pulp  to  the  fire  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pep- 
per, and  cook  slowly  once  more  until  a  little  spread 
to  cool  in  a  saucer  thickens  to  a  jelly.  Spread  it 
out  on  pie-plates  in  layers  about  half  an  inch 
thick  and  let  it  dry  in  the  sun  or  in  a  cool  oven. 
When  it  is  dry  it  may  be  packed  in  boxes  or  wide- 
mouthed  jars.  To  use,  cook  together  a  tablespoon- 
ful each  of  butter  and  flour  until  they  bubble,  pour 
half  a  pint  of  water  upon  them,  with  a  piece  of  the 
paste  about  three  inches  square,  and  stir  until  the 
sauce  is  thick  and  smooth.  Or  make  the  sauce 
with  the  roux,  as  described  above,  and  add  the  to- 


148    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

mato  paste  to  it.  A  little  seasoning  may  be  re- 
quired. 

Celery  vinegar  is  often  useful  for  sauces.  Put 
half  a  pound  of  celery  seed  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  into  a  pint  of  good  vinegar,  bottle,  and  cork 
the  bottle,  and  let  it  stand  for  about  a  month.  At 
the  end  of  that  time  the  vinegar  may  be  poured  off 
and  will  be  ready  for  use. 

Bread  crumbs  are  often  prepared  in  advance,  by 
grating  stale  bread  and  packing  the  crumbs  away 
in  jars.  But  not  every  one  knows  that  bread  may 
be  cut  into  dice  or  into  small  fancy  shapes  for  soup, 
dried  slowly  in  a  cool  oven,  and  if  put  away  in  a 
tightly  closed  jar  or  tin  box,  will  keep  for  a  month 
in  cool  weather. 

The  housekeeper  who  has  a  kitchen  garden  — 
and  I  have  known  of  women  who  conducted  a 
quite  successful  herb-garden  in  a  box  on  a  window- 
sill  —  need  not  be  dependent  upon  the  put-up  herbs 
for  seasoning.  The  herbs  she  raises  are  much 
more  pungent  if  she  will  dry  them,  and  when  thor- 
oughly dry  crumble  them  up  and  pack  them  in  air- 
tight receptacles.  Fresh  mint  may  be  put  away  to 
dry  when  it  is  plentiful,  and  if  kept  in  a  closed 
glass  jar  will  serve  as  well  as  the  fresh  mint  when 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     149 

this  is  out  of  the  market  or  is  sold  at  out-of-season 
prices. 

Maitre  d'hotel  butter  is  an  excellent  stand-by  for 
the  housekeeper  who  wishes  a  sauce  in  a  hurry. 
For  this  a  half-pound  of  good  butter  is  needed,  a 
tablespoonful  of  fresh  parsley,  chopped,  a  small 
tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice,  and  a  little  salt  and 
white  pepper.  All  are  mixed  together  and  then 
packed  into  a  jar.  The  jars  in  which  Dundee  mar- 
malade comes  are  good  for  this,  as  well  as  for  the 
rouXy  because  of  their  wide  tops.  This  butter  is 
a  delicious  addition  to  fish  of  any  kind,  to  potatoes 
boiled  and  served  whole  or  sliced,  to  stewed  po- 
tatoes. A  tablespoonful  of  it  may  be  put  upon  any 
of  these  or  upon  a  steak.  If  the  same  quantity 
is  put  with  an  equal  quantity  of  flour  and  stirred 
into  a  cup  of  hot  milk  or  hot  water,  it  makes  an 
excellent  sauce.  A  pretty  way  to  serve  it  with 
fish  is  to  pack  it  into  halved  lemon  rinds  from  which 
the  pulp  has  been  scooped  out.  These  are  laid 
about  the  dish  of  fish  and  serve  as  a  garnish.  One 
is  given  with  each  portion  of  fish. 

For  the  benefit  of  those  who  are  fond  of  good 
gravies  and  do  not  always  have  stock  in  the  house, 
it  is  well  to  prepare  a  supply  of  glaze.     This  is  a 


ISO    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

little  troublesome,  but  it  is  cheaper  in  the  end  than 
any  good  meat  extract.  Four  pounds  of  leg  of 
beef  and  three  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal  will  be 
demanded  to  make  a  good  stock.  Cut  the  meat  in 
pieces  about  the  size  of  an  egg  and  put  with  them 
half  a  pound  of  ham,  cut  up  small.  Take  a  large 
pot  or  preserving-kettle,  which  will  hold  at  least 
two  gallons,  rub  the  bottom  of  it  with  a  half  cup  of 
butter,  and  then  put  in  the  meat  with  one  cupful  of 
water,  a  small  head  of  celery,  a  carrot,  a  turnip, 
and  a  couple  of  onions.  Set  the  pot  over  a  hot  fire 
and  stir  for  a  while.  When  the  bottom  of  the  pot 
is  covered  with  a  thick  glaze  which  sticks  to  the 
spoon,  fill  it  up  with  cold  water  and  bring  this  to  a 
boil.  After  this  point  is  reached  move  the  pot  over 
a  slow  flame,  if  you  are  cooking  with  gas;  to  the 
back  of  the  stove,  if  you  burn  coal.  It  should  sim- 
mer very  slowly  for  about  five  hours,  the  scum  that 
comes  to  the  top  being  removed  with  a  spoon. 

There  is  now  in  the  pot  an  excellent  stock,  but 
it  must  be  still  further  reduced  for  glaze.  The 
liquor  must  be  poured  from  the  meat  and  strained, 
and  the  meat  again  covered  with  water.  It  should 
be  hot  this  time,  and  must  boil  five  hours  longer. 
At  the  end  of  that  time  the  first  and  the  second 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     151 

stock  may  be  strained  together  into  a  clean  pot, 
and  boiled  hard  until  reduced  to  three  pints.  It 
should  be  stirred  once  in  a  while  and  skimmed. 
Take  it  off  once  more,  put  it  into  another  pot,  and 
boil  down  to  a  quart,  cooking  slowly  now.  When 
this  point  is  reached  boil  it  more  quickly  again, 
stirring  it  steadily  until  it  begins  to  thicken  and 
turn  yellow-brown.  Watch  that  it  does  not  scorch. 
Reduce  to  a  pint.  The  glaze  thus  made  may  be 
kept  in  jars  for  use.  A  little  of  it  added  to  a  cup 
of  boiling  water  and  seasoned  makes  a  gravy,  a 
larger  portion  dissolved  in  hot  water  and  thickened 
with  rice  or  sago  or  vermicelli  makes  a  good  broth. 
As  I  have  said  —  and  shown, —  it  is  troublesome 
to  prepare,  but  it  is  a  comfort  when  it  is  done.  It 
will  keep  almost  indefinitely. 

Fondant  for  icing  cakes  or  for  home-made 
French  candies  will  also  keep  indefinitely,  and  is 
little  trouble  to  make,  beyond  the  vigilance  it  re- 
quires, and  care  in  noting  the  exact  stages  of  the 
cooking. 

Into  a  porcelain-lined  or  granite  saucepan  put 
a  pound  of  granulated  sugar  and  a  half  a  pint  of 
water  and  bring  it  to  a  boil.  Do  not  stir.  When 
it  has  boiled  about  ten  minutes,  test  a  little  of  it 


152    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

in  a  cup  of  iced  water.  When  it  gets  to  the  point 
that  you  can  take  the  deposit  that  falls  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  water  and  make  it  into  a  ball  that  will 
not  stick  to  your  fingers,  it  is  at  the  right  stage. 
Take  it  from  the  fire  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  If 
the  sugar  ball  is  brittle,  it  has  boiled  too  long;  you 
must  put  a  little  water  in  with  it  and  then  try  it 
again.  If  it  is  at  the  right  stage  set  it  aside  to 
cool,  as  I  have  said,  and  when  it  is  blood-warm 
begin  to  stir  it  with  a  spoon  or  paddle.  It  will 
become  white  and  soft,  and  you  can  handle  it  as 
though  it  were  pastry.  This  can  be  kept  until  it 
is  needed.  To  use  it  for  icing,  put  some  of  the 
fondant  in  a  small  bowl,  set  this  in  an  outer  vessel 
of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  melt  to  the  proper  con- 
sistency for  icing  the  cake.  Flavor  it  and  color  it 
as  you  like. 

Bear  in  mind  that  when  fondant  is  heated  a  sec- 
ond time  it  hardens  much  more  quickly  than  it  did 
the  first  time,  and  keep  it  very  hot  until  you  are 
entirely  ready  to  use  it. 

Pastry  will  not  keep  as  long  as  the  preparations  I 
have  already  mentioned,  and  yet  it  may  be  kept 
for  from  a  week  to  ten  days,  or  even  more,  in  very 
cold  weather  or  on  the  ice.     A  fine  pastry  which 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     153 

contains  only  butter  for  shortening  is  the  best,  and, 
although  it  is  expensive,  there  are  many  who 
think  it  better  worth  while  to  have  it  seldom  and 
to  have  it  really  good. 

For  pastry  of  any  sort  all  the  ingredients  and 
the  utensils  must  be  ice-cold,  and  if  the  mixing 
can  be  done  in  a  very  cool  room,  so  much  the  bet- 
ter. A  marble-slab  is  admirable  for  pastry;  when 
this  is  not  attainable  the  zinc  top  of  a  table  is  the 
next  choice.  If  the  ordinary  pastry-board  is  em- 
ployed, leave  it  in  the  ice-box  for  several  hours 
before  using. 

Put  a  pound  of  flour  and  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  butter  together  into  your  chopping-bowl, 
which  should  be  as  cold  as  the  board.  Qiop  them 
with  a  chilled  chopping-knife  until  the  butter  is 
in  bits  about  the  size  of  a  green  pea.  When  this 
stage  is  reached,  make  a  hole  in  the  center  of  the 
flour  and  butter,  in  which  put  a  small  cup  of  iced 
watec.  Mix  with  the  chopping-knife,  lightly,  to 
a  stiff  paste.  When  just  mixed,  turn  out  on  the 
board.  If  some  of  the  bits  of  butter  are  not 
blended,  never  mind;  put  them  all  out  together. 
They  will  mix  in  when  you  roll  the  paste.  Roll  it 
with  the  rolling-pin,  which  should  be  as  cold  as 


154    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

everjd;hing  else,  into  an  oblong  sheet,  pressing  it 
lightly.  Fold  the  sheet  in  three,  turn  it  with  the 
end  towards  you  and  roll  it  again.  Repeat  this 
process  three  times,  always  turning  the  end  of  the 
roll  towards  you.  Set  it  on  the  ice  then  until  ready 
for  use.  When  that  time  comes,  cut  it  with  a 
sharp  knife,  roll  it  slightly,  and  never  let  it  get  so 
warm  that  the  butter  appears  soft  and  oily. 

This  is  known  as  rough  puff  paste  and  is  almost 
equal  to  the  fine  French  puff  paste. 

Mayonnaise  is  so  simple  a  thing  to  make  that 
one  marvels  it  should  be  considered  a  task  by  many. 
For  this,  too,  everything  used  in  mixing  should  be 
ice-cold.  Divide  the  white  and  yolk  of  an  egg, 
putting  the  yolk  into  a  soup-plate.  Put  with  it  a 
good  pinch  of  salt  and  one  of  mustard  and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon.  Begin  stirring  into  this  with  a  fork, 
your  salad  oil,  a  drop  at  a  time.  Continue  this  for 
several  minutes,  until  the  sauce  begins  to  thicken. 
You  may  then  add  the  oil  more  rapidly,  until  you 
are  stirring  it  in  by  the  teaspoonful.  If  the  may- 
onnaise becomes  too  thick  to  stir  well,  put  in  a 
few  drops  of  vinegar  and  reduce  it  to  the  right 
consistency.  Continue  in  the  same  way  until  you 
have  the  desired  amount  of  mayonnaise.     One  tgg 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     155 

will  take  a  pint  of  oil.  Should  the  mayonnaise 
curdle  before  it  is  done,  stir  a  piece  of  ice  in  with 
it  and  it  will  probably  come  back  to  the  right  state. 
If  not,  set  the  dish  aside,  take  another  egg,  and 
begin  again  from  the  beginning.  When  the  second 
stock  is  thick,  work  the  curdled  mayonnaise  into  it. 

Just  before  serving  beat  the  white  of  the  egg 
stiff  and  stir  it  into  the  mayonnaise.  Do  not  do 
this  to  the  portion  you  expect  to  keep.  You  may 
increase  the  original  stock  by  adding  more  oil  if 
you  need  it.  Mayonnaise  dressing  will  keep  for 
a  week  on  the  ice.  Sometimes  it  thins  a  little  by 
keeping,  and  in  this  case  more  oil  can  be  worked  in. 

A  good  cake  filling  that  will  keep  is  the  old-fash- 
ioned preparation  known  as  lemon  honey,  or  lemon 
butter.  The  yolks  of  three  eggs  are  needed 
for  this,  and  the  white  of  one,  the  juice  and  rind 
of  a  large  lemon,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  three 
large  tablespoonfuls  of  the  best  butter.  The  salt 
must  be  washed  from  the  butter,  in  the  first  place, 
and  then  it  is  put  into  the  saucepan  with  the  sugar, 
and  melted.  The  eggs  are  beaten  light,  the  grated 
lemon  peel  and  the  juice  put  with  them,  and  all 
mixed  together  over  the  fire  until  of  the  consistency 
of  very  thick  cream.     It  must  be  watched  to  keep 


iS6    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

it  from  scorching.  This  may  be  put  aside  and 
kept  for  some  time,  to  be  used  as  cake  filling  when 
required. 

Quince  honey  is  also  a  good  cake  filling.  Peel 
and  grate  two  good-sized  quinces.  Cook  together 
a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  water  until  they 
reach  the  state  at  which  you  take  fondant  from 
th^  fire.  (See  previous  page.)  Add  the  quince 
and  boil,  stirring  constantly,  for  twenty  minutes. 

Tutti-frutti  filling  is  too  little  known.  For  this 
the  tutti-frutti  preserves,  made  by  putting  down 
fruits  of  different  sorts  in  alcohol  with  sugar,  are 
used.  The  fruits  are  chopped  fine  and  then  put 
over  the  fire  and  boiled  down  to  a  thick  syrup. 
This  makes  a  delicious  filling,  and  is  so  rich  that  it 
can  be  used  with  a  very  simple  cake  and  yet  be 
suitable  for  a  rather  elaborate  occasion. 

A  caramel  filling  may  be  prepared  from  fondant 
by  adding  the  burnt  sugar,  or  caramel,  made  as 
described  above,  to  the  fondant  after  this  is  re- 
heated. Only  a  few  drops  will  be  needed  to  pro- 
duce the  desired  color  and  flavor.  As  the  fondant 
hardens  more  with  every  heating,  it  is  well  to 
soften  it  with  the  addition  of  a  little  boiling  water 
when  it  is  to  be  employed  for  cake  filling. 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     157 

It  may  be  of  interest  to  housekeepers  to  know 
how  to  compound  the  tutti-frutti,  referred  to 
which  may  be  put  up  at  almost  any  season  of  the 
year.  In  summer  berries  may  go  into  it, —  straw- 
berries, raspberries,  blackberries,  cherries,  and  sec- 
tions of  firm  white  peaches.  In  winter  it  may 
be  made  of  pineapple  cut  into  dice,  of  divided  sec- 
tions of  orange  and  mandarins  or  tangerines,  white 
and  Tokay  grapes.  If  you  wish  the  two  varieties, 
summer  and  winter  fruits  may  be  combined. 

Whatever  the  fruit  it  should  be  put  into  self- 
sealing  jars  with  broad  tops,  four  tablespoon fuls 
of  sugar  allowed  to  each  quart  jar,  and  this  sprin- 
kled over  each  layer  of  fruit.  When  this  has  been 
done,  the  jar  may  be  filled  to  the  top  with  white 
preserving  brandy,  pouring  it  in  slowly  enough  to 
allow  it  to  filter  into  every  crevice.  Screw  down 
the  tops  and  set  the  jars  in  a  cool  closet.  The  con- 
tents will  not  be  ready  for  use  until  they  have 
seasoned  for  several  weeks. 


XVIII 

Home  Dinners  Without  a 
Servant 

The  woman  who  does  her  own  work  has  this 
great  boon  —  she  is  not  dependent  upon  the  moods 
and  tenses  of  servants.  She  can  do  as  she  pleases 
in  her  own  house  without  fear  of  trouble.  Should 
she  choose  to  permit  one  member  of  the  family 
to  breakfast  late,  or  should  she  wish  to  have  dinner 
at  an  uncanonical  hour  she  is  not  tormented  by 
the  reflection  that  Bridget  or  Gretchen  or  Chloe 
may  be  put  out.  Literally  as  well  as  figuratively 
she  is  mistress  in  her  own  house. 

Of  course  there  are  drawbacks  to  this  state  of 
affairs.  There  are  to  most  human  conditions.  It 
is  not  always  pleasant  to  have  to  get  dinner  on  the 
hot  days,  or  to  wash  dishes  when  one  is  tired,  or 
to  feel  that  if  one  is  forced  to  stop  through  fa- 
tigue or  indisposition  ever)rthing  else  about  the 
house  stops  too.  But  the  marvelous  law  of  com- 
pensation works  here,  as  everywhere  else,  and  for 

158 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     159 

my  own  part  I  don't  think  that  the  woman  who 
does  her  own  work  is  an  object  of  pity  on  that 
ground  alone.  It  would  be  melancholy  if  she  were, 
since  there  are  nearly  ninety-five  per  cent,  of  her 
in  the  United  States  against  the  small  remaining 
fraction  who  hire  help. 

The  woman  who  does  her  own  work  is  wise 
when  she  establishes  conventions  of  her  own  and 
says  she  will  live  as  she  pleases.  I  know  one  such 
woman.  She  is  a  good  housekeeper  and  a  thrifty, 
for  she  has  to  consider  the  dollars-and-cents  ques- 
tion very  carefully.  But  she  feels  that  she  is  of 
more  importance  than  rules  and  regulations  laid 
down  for  the  use  of  those  who  have  servants  at 
their  command,  and  she  rules  her  own  home  in 
accordance  with  her  theories.  A  happy  home  it 
is,  too,  and  one  to  which  guests  are  always  wel- 
comed, with  no  word  of  apology  for  things  being 
a  little  different  from  what  they  are  in  some  other 
homes.  Never  had  she  a  guest,  to  my  knowledge, 
who  did  not  enjoy  the  difference  and  find  it  a  cause 
for  praise  and  not  for  criticism. 

To  begin  at  the  beginning,  she  does  not  have 
the  conventional  breakfast.  The  family  are  fond 
of  fruit,  and  this,  with  a  cereal,  a  cup  of  good 


i6o    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

cofifee,  rolls,  and  bacon  or  eggs  cooked  in  some  sim- 
ple way  satisfy  their  needs  for  this  meal.  When 
summer  fruit  is  plenty  breakfast  will  consist  of 
this,  bread  and  butter,  and  cofifee  for  the  grown- 
ups, with  milk  and  a  cereal  besides  for  the  chil- 
dren. These,  by  the  way,  are  taught  from  the  first 
that  part  of  the  work  of  the  house  is  as  much  theirs 
as  other  portions  are  the  share  of  their  mother,  and 
they  bear  their  part  of  the  burden  as  a  matter  of 
course  and  cheerfully,  with  no  thought  that  they 
are  being  imposed  upon  or  overtasked. 

The  mother's  morning  is  pretty  busy,  because 
she  has  not  only  most  of  the  work  of  the  house 
to  do  after  the  children  are  off  for  school,  but  some- 
times, because  she  was  tired  the  night  before  or 
something  interesting  presented  itself,  she  put  most 
of  the  dinner  dishes  in  hot  water,  after  scraping 
them,  covered  them,  and  left  them.  The  silver  was 
washed  and  put  away,  but  the  bulk  of  the  dishes 
were  left  to  be  done  when  she  felt  fresh  and  bright 
and  ready  for  her  day's  work.  She  is  systematic 
about  her  employments,  too,  in  the  line  of  sweep- 
ing, cleaning,  etc.,  but  she  tries  to  take  things  as 
they  come  and  not  to  worry.  Lunch  for  the  chil- 
dren when  they  come  home  from  school  at  noon  is 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     i6i 

plain  and  substantial,  and  her  dinners  are  not  the 
function  one  usually  associates  with  the  name.  If 
she  has  stock  in  the  house  or  if  her  meat  course  is 
light,  she  serves  soup,  but  if  not  she  has  her  meat 
course  without  preface,  accompanying  the  meat 
with  a  couple  of  vegetables  and  following  it  some- 
times with  a  sweet  —  preferably  fresh  fruit  — 
sometimes  with  a  salad,  crackers,  and  cheese.  On 
rare  occasions  she  may  have  all  three  courses,  and 
a  cup  of  coffee  invariably  finishes  the  meal.  What- 
ever else  she  may  have  to  economize  upon,  she  in- 
sists upon  good  food  and  abundance  of  it  for  her 
household.  There  is  never  any  omission  of  the 
niceties  of  serving  or  arrangement,  and  the  impres- 
sion made  upon  the  visitor  is  one  of  simple  and 
elegant  plenty. 

Granting  that  circumstances  alter  cases  and  that 
the  same  rule  cannot  be  followed  by  all  house- 
keepers, it  may  still  be  asserted  that  the  woman 
who  gives  to  her  home-making  the  careful  thought 
most  women  would  bestow  upon  planning  impor- 
tant additions  to  their  wardrobes,  can  make  far 
more  of  it  and  accomplish  her  duties  with  more 
ease  and  success  than  the  woman  who  runs  her 
house  in  haphazard   fashion.     Such  thought  and 


1 62     "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

care  may  possibly  be  omitted  by  the  woman  who 
has  service  at  her  command,  although  that  they  are 
necessary  in  her  case  also  is  proved  by  the  experi- 
ence of  every  woman  at  the  head  of  a  domestic 
force.  But  planning  which  will  simplify  her  labors 
and  give  her  a  degree  of  self-confidence  that  will 
connote  poise  and  ease  of  mind  is  indispensable  to 
the  woman  who  does  her  own  work. 

The  chief  problem  that  comes  to  a  housekeeper 
in  the  daily  round  of  her  duties  is  dinner,  as  a 
matter  of  course.  Not  a  formal  dinner  —  that 
she  may  renounce  as  beyond  her  scope  in  existing 
conditions  —  but  the  regular  evening  meal. 
Breakfast  is  in  most  houses  more  or  less  of  a  scram- 
ble, and  melancholy  as  this  may  be,  it  is  as  true  in 
houses  where  there  are  competent  servants  as  in 
the  homes  without  them.  In  the  millennium  it  is 
to  be  hoped  that  each  member  of  a  family  will 
breakfast  apart,  but  until  that  longed-for  period 
one  must  resign  one's  self  to  a  certain  amount  of 
friction  at  the  morning  meal,  or  if  not  to  friction,  to 
labored  cheerfulness  and  obvious  patience.  Lunch- 
eon, too,  is  an  informal  repast  with,  at  its  best,  a 
spice  of  picnic  thrown  in. 

But  dinner!     Here  at  least  the  household  must 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     163 

gather  about  itself  what  shreds  of  dignity  it  pos- 
sesses, and  try  to  compass  a  meal  that  shall  not  be 
altogether  unworthy  of  the  distinguished  name  of 
dinner.  And  I  contend  that  this  is  as  possible  in 
a  household  where  no  maid  is  employed  as  in  one 
presided  over  by  a  butler  —  if  only  one  goes  about 
it  in  the  right  way. 

In  the  first  place,  however  the  bill  of  fare  may 
depart  from  the  conventions,  there  must  be  no  such 
departure  in  the  spreading  of  the  table.  The  spot- 
less linen,  the  shining  glass,  silver,  and  china,  must 
be  as  carefully  arranged  for  the  entirely  domestic 
meal  as  for  that  to  which  guests  are  expected. 
When  feasible  there  should  be  flowers  or  at  least 
a  growing  plant  in  the  middle  of  the  table.  No 
liberties  or  carelessness  may  be  permitted  with  the 
stage-setting.  The  first  look  at  the  table  should 
produce  the  impression  of  an  orderly  and  dignified 
occasion. 

The  same  orderliness  and  dignity  should  con- 
tinue throughout  the  meal.  Since  there  is  no  maid, 
the  dishes  for  each  course  must  all  be  put  on  the 
table  at  once,  instead  of  having  the  vegetables  on 
the  side-table.  But  this  was  the  universal  custom 
years  ago,  and  is  still  followed  by  preference  in 


i64    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

many  homes  where  there  are  attendants  to  pass  the 
dishes.  The  meat  in  front  of  the  carver,  each 
vegetable  near  some  one  who  will  serve  it,  a  piece 
of  bread  and  a  butter-ball  on  each  bread-and-but- 
ter plate,  gravy  or  sauce,  pickles  or  relishes,  may  all 
be  in  place  when  the  family  comes  in. 

Once  assembled  and  seated,  a  like  orderliness 
should  be  adhered  to  in  serving  the  food.  If 
everything  is  on  the  table  as  it  should  be,  there  will 
be  no  need  for  constant  jumping  up  to  repair  de- 
ficiencies. Nothing  is  more  disturbing  to  the  calm 
that  should  wait  upon  digestion  than  such  irregu- 
larities. The  butter  has  been  forgotten  and  one 
person  rushes  to  the  refrigerator.  There  are  not 
enough  tablespoons  and  a  relief  expedition  flies  to 
the  silver-drawer.  The  vinegar-cruet  is  empty  and 
a  third  member  of  the  family  vanishes  into  the 
pantry.  We  have  all  of  us  known  such  dinner- 
tables  and  our  gastronomic  memories  hold  them  in 
bitter  souvenir. 

It  is  all  so  unnecessary!  Thought  and  planning 
can  soon  make  second  nature  of  the  habit  of  put- 
ting on  the  table  in  advance  all  that  is  likely  to  be 
required,  and  when  this  has  been  done  the  meal 
may  progress  in  as  pleasing  a  peace  as  would  be 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     i6^ 

possible  with  trained  service.  It  does  the  different 
members  of  the  family  no  harm  to  wait  on  one  an- 
other, and  arouses  in  them  a  quickness  to  notice 
and  anticipate  the  wants  of  others  that  is  conspicu- 
ously absent  from  the  manners  of  those  who  have 
always  been  served  by  attendants. 

When  the  table  is  not  large  enough  to  accom- 
modate without  crowding  the  dishes  that  will  be 
needed  at  the  meal,  a  serving-table  may  be  pressed 
into  use  and  on  this  may  be  the  overflow  supply. 
Here,  too,  may  be  the  pitcher  of  water,  the  plates 
for  the  salad  or  the  dessert,  with  finger-bowls  and 
doilies  complete,  the  vinegar  and  oil  cruets  when 
these  will  be  needed  in  preparing  the  salad  dressing, 
the  after-dinner  coffee  cups  and  saucers  and  sugar- 
bowl,  and  any  other  adjuncts  which  it  is  well  to 
have  near  the  hand  of  the  mistress  of  the  house. 

When  the  time  comes  to  change  the  plates  — 
for  no  lack  of  service  must  be  permitted  to  inter- 
fere with  the  sequence  of  courses  —  the  work 
should  be  deputed  to  one  member  of  the  family. 
The  quiet  of  the  earlier  part  of  the  meal  should  not 
be  rudely  dispelled  by  permitting  half  the  persons 
at  the  table  to  be  on  their  feet  at  once.  If  there 
are  daughters  in  the  household  each  may  take  her 


1 66    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

turn  at  removing  the  plates,  brushing  the  crumbs 
from  the  cloth,  and  bringing  in  the  next  course. 
Should  there  be  only  boys,  it  will  do  them  no  harm 
to  gain  a  little  dexterity  in  the  details  of  housekeep- 
ing. Such  instruction  will  cause  their  future  wives 
to  arise  and  call  the  mother-in-law  blessed.  Or  if 
the  task  of  changing  the  plates  devolves  upon  the 
mistress  of  the  house  she  may  do  it  with  as  much 
calm  and  dignity  as  she  would  display  in  a  less 
homely  occupation.  She  could  arrange  flowers  or 
fruit  or  dispense  afternoon  tea  to  guests  with  no 
embarrassment  or  attempt  at  apology.  Why 
should  she  not  clear  her  table  with  equal  grace? 

Again  let  me  emphasize  the  importance  of  every- 
thing being  managed  with  the  same  precision  when 
the  family  is  alone  as  when  guests  are  expected. 
In  this  manner  only  can  the  housekeeper  be  sure 
that  when  company  comes  she  will  not  be  taken  at 
a  disadvantage. 

The  woman  who  does  her  own  work  is  some- 
times in  danger  of  gliding  into  an  attitude  of 
shrinking  from  guests.  Very  mistakenly  she  feels 
that  when  she  cannot  offer  the  perfection  of  em- 
ployed service  to  her  friends  she  does  not  care  to 
ask  them  to  her  table.     Thus  the  man  of  the  house 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     167 

too  often  has  to  renounce  the  privilige,  dear  to  his 
heart,  of  bringing  home  a  chance  guest.  When 
young  and  inexperienced  he  cherishes  the  illusion 
that  he  can  do  this  at  any  time  without  warning, 
and  it  takes  a 'series  of  bitter  lessons  to  convince 
him  that  he  is  not  free  in  this  regard,  and  that 
even  if  he  sends  word  to  his  wife  that  one  of  his 
old  college  friends  has  happened  in  and  that  he  is 
bringing  him  out  to  dinner  he  may  be  making  a 
terrible  blunder. 

It  is  always  a  pity  when  this  stage  is  reached. 
The  man  who  comes  to  the  point  where  he  is 
afraid  to  invite  a  friend  home  with  him  when  he 
pleases  has  lost  something  besides  the  privilege. 
A  certain  degree  of  confidence  in  his  wife's  ability 
to  meet  emergencies,  in  her  eagerness  to  give  him 
pleasure,  is  gone.  I  say  this  without  any  wish  to 
minimize  the  inconveniences  it  often  causes  a  wife 
to  have  sudden  guests,  whether  announced  an  hour 
in  advance  or  entirely  unheralded.  Yet,  after  all, 
it  is  not  such  a  calamity  to  have  to  share  with  a 
friend  that  which  the  housekeeper  has  considered 
good  enough  for  her  own,  and  it  is  ten  to  one  that 
if  the  guest  is  made  welcome  and  given  to  feel  that 
his  coming  brought  pleasure  and  bothered  no  one 


i68    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

he  will  be  as  well  pleased  as  if  his  visit  had  been 
planned  for  days  ahead. 

The  woman  who  gives  her  husband  the  right — ■ 
which  should  have  been  his  already  —  to  bring 
home  a  friend  when  he  pleases  should  have  an 
emergency  cupboard  to  which  she  can  turn  if  the 
provision  that  was  enough  for  six  should  seem  slim 
for  seven.  In  this  closet  may  be  tinned  soups  that 
need  only  heating  and  a  little  seasoning  to  be  ready 
for  the  table,  a  few  cans  of  good  fish,  meat,  and 
preserves,  jars  of  fancy  cheeses,  a  supply  of  crack- 
ers, olives,  and  a  few  other  things  whose  addition 
to  the  table  will  help  out  a  plain  meal.  She  may 
seldom  have  to  draw  upon  this  stock,  but  the  knowl- 
edge that  it  is  there  will  be  a  comfort  to  her.  In 
any  case  let  her  avoid  the  pitfall  of  apologies. 
Their  usual  effect  is  to  indicate  faults  or  omissions 
to  a  guest  who  never  would  have  perceived  them 
had  not  the  luckless  excuse  for  their  existence 
forced  them  upon  his  attention. 

A  valuable  aid  in  the  housekeeping  of  the  woman 
with  no  servant  is  a  selection  of  dishes  for  keeping 
food  hot.  There  are  many  of  these.  The  chafing- 
dish  first  —  not  only  the  one  used  for  table  cook- 
ery, but  the  old-fashioned  hot-water  dish  whose 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     169 

chief  function  is  a  heat-preserver.  This  has  a 
cover,  of  course,  and  is  usually  large  enough  to  hold 
a  medium-sized  roast,  to  say  nothing  of  steak  or 
chops.  Next  come  the  casseroles,  of  which  there 
are  many  styles  and  sizes.  Some  are  much  orna- 
mented, others  plain,  and  they  may  be  used  not  only 
for  the  preparation  of  food  en  casserole,  but  also 
as  bake-dishes  for  vegetables  and  puddings.  Also 
there  are  plates  especially  for  hot  breads,  consist- 
ing either  of  covers  fitted  over  plates  or  else  with 
a  hot-water  reservoir  in  the  lower  part.  These 
may  in  a  measure  take  the  place  of  a  servant  in  sup- 
plying hot  food  to  the  family  without  hired  service. 


XIX 

Entertaining  Without  Service 

The  woman  with  one  maid  or  no  maid  at  all  may 
feel  that  she  is  debarred  from  dinner-giving.  Or 
she  may  feel  that  the  trouble  of  the  dinner  out- 
weighs the  pleasure  she  grants  or  gains.  The 
luncheon,  the  supper,  or  the  afternoon  tea  fits  so 
well  into  her  capabilities  as  to  kindle  or  strengthen 
in  her  heart  a  belief  in  special  Providence. 

With  these  forms  of  entertaining,  as  with  the 
dinner,  the  preparation  is  much  what  the  hostess 
chooses  to  make  it.  I  have  spoken  before  of  the 
tendency  to  simplify  meals.  The  rule  which  pre- 
vails at  dinners  extends  to  luncheons.  I  have  in 
mind  lunch-parties  I  have  met  where  course  after 
course  succeeded  one  another  —  appetizer,  bouillon, 
fish,  entree,  piece  de  resistance,  more  entrees,  sor- 
bet, game,  salad,  sweet,  fruit,  coffee  —  until  the 
women  who  began  bravely  under  the  impression 
that   the   meal    would   be    only   an    extension   of 

170 


LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     171 


the  light  repast  usual  in  the  middle  of  the  day 
felt  themselves  on  the  verge  of  collapse  from 
plethora. 

This  sort  of  thing  may  once  have  been  fashion- 
able. Never  vi^as  it  rational.  It  is  a  sign  of  the 
increasing  common  sense  of  the  entertaining  com- 
munity that  it  is  no  longer  even  a  la  mode. 

Let  me  tell  of  two  luncheons  which  stand  out  in 
my  memory,  and  might  serve  as  models  to  the 
woman  without  a  maid. 

The  first  was  given  in  an  old  house  dating  back 
to  Colonial  days.  Need  for  economy,  combined 
with  the  difficulty  of  securing  servants  in  a  rather 
remote  country  locality,  had  obliged  the  mistress  of 
the  house  and  her  daughters  to  do  their  own  work. 
They  had  all  the  traditions  of  elegant  living,  and 
they  carried  these  into  effect  when  they  waited  on 
themselves  as  when  they  had  trained  service. 
Three  of  us  fortunate  guests  took  our  places  at  a 
dining-table  of  old  mahogany,  and  ate  and  drank 
from  ancestral  china,  glass,  and  silver.  The  table 
was  laid  with  centerpiece  and  doilies  of  fine  da- 
mask, flowers  were  in  the  middle  of  the  table,  and 
ever3d;hing  was  arranged  in  the  usual  conventional 
fashion. 


172    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

It  was  summer,  and  the  first  course  was  jellied 
bouillon.  When  this  had  been  eaten  one  of  the 
daughters  rose,  with  no  word  of  apology,  and  re- 
moved the  cups,  leaving  our  empty  plates  in  front 
of  us.  The  next  course,  a  cold  meat  of  some  sort, 
a  salad,  and  fresh  rolls,  was  already  on  the  table, 
and  we  served  ourselves,  passing  plates  as  we  would 
have  done  at  the  home  table  if  without  a  maid. 
Tea  was  made  and  poured  by  the  hostess. 

This  course  finished,  the  daughter  again  rose,  re- 
moved the  plates,  crumbed  the  table,  and  put  on  a 
dish  of  superb  strawberries,  a  pitcher  of  cream, 
and  a  plate  of  cake.  Again  we  waited  on  our- 
selves. All  through  the  meal  the  conversation  was 
easy  and  pleasant,  with  no  word  of  apology  for 
the  lack  of  a  maid  —  and,  indeed,  her  absence  was 
scarcely  noted.  When  we  left  the  house  it  was 
with  the  memory  of  a  delightful  lunch,  prepared 
and  served  with  a  perfection  that  left  no  room  for 
criticism. 

The  other  luncheon  was  eaten  many  miles  from 
the  first,  at  the  home  of  a  young  couple  who  were 
obliged,  for  economy's  sake,  to  dispense  with  a 
maid.  Five  of  us  sat  down  to  table  and  found  at 
each  place  a  glass  cup  filled  with  ice-cold  fruit 


LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     173 


macedoine.  As  we  finished  this  we  followed  the 
example  of  our  host  and  set  our  cups  to  one  side. 
The  hostess  had  a  serving-table  at  her  elbow  and  a 
chafing-dish  in  front  of  her,  and  proceeded  to  pre- 
pare the  hot  dish  of  the  meal.  Light  rolls  and 
Saratoga  chips  were  on  the  table,  and  beside  each 
place  when  we  sat  down  was  a  plate  of  salad. 
Not  until  all  the  substantials  had  been  eaten  did  the 
hostess  arise,  quietly  remove  the  plates,  brush  off 
the  crumbs,  and  put  before  each  of  us  half  a  nut- 
meg melon  filled  with  ice-cream.  On  the  veranda, 
after  lunch,  she  brewed  us  coffee  in  a  Vienna  coffee- 
pot. 

I  have  attended  many  large  and  elaborate  lunch- 
eons of  which  I  have  forgotten  the  details,  but 
every  feature  of  these  two  delightful  meals  remains 
with  me.  Only  gentlewomen,  too  sure  of  their 
position  to  be  conscious  or  uncomfortable  because 
deprived  of  hired  service,  could  have  carried 
through  affairs  with  so  much  dignity  and  grace. 

If  I  have  made  a  long  preamble  it  is  because  I 
feel  that  the  rehearsal  of  the  success  of  two  house- 
keepers may  be  helpful  to  others  similarly  situated. 

The  table  for  a  luncheon  without  a  maid  should 
be  prettily  set,  bare  if  the  table-top  warrants  it. 


174    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

except  for  centerpiece  and  doilies,  and  covered  with 
a  white  cloth  if  the  wood  is  not  presentable.  Some 
luncheon  cloths  have  a  little  color  about  them  and 
are  very  attractive.  Smaller  napkins  are  used  for 
luncheon  than  for  dinner,  and  may  be  adorned  with 
drawn-work  or  plainly  hemstitched.  The  napkin 
is  laid  by  the  forks  at  the  left  of  the  plate,  the  knife 
and  spoon  at  the  right,  the  tumbler  near  the  latter. 
Little  dishes  of  candies,  olives,  and  nuts  may  be  on 
the  table,  and  the  bread-and-butter  plates,  usually 
omitted  at  a  dinner,  may  be  on  the  left  of  the  place 
in  a  position  corresponding  to  the  tumbler  on  the 
right. 

A  luncheon  may  begin  with  beef  or  chicken 
bouillon,  hot  or  cold,  or  with  clam  or  oyster  soup. 
Or  this  course  may  be  omitted  and  a  macedoine  of 
fruit  or  halved  grapefruit  or  melon  may  be  served 
instead.  If  the  macedoine  is  served,  it  may  be  in 
cocktail  or  lemonade  glasses,  the  fruit  cut  into  dice 
and  very  cold.  This  may  be  on  the  table  when  the 
guests  come  into  the  room. 

For  the  second  course,  if  fish  is  to  be  served, 
creamed  fish  au  gratin  is  excellent,  since  this  may 
stand  for  some  time  after  cooking  without  injury 
to  its  excellence.     Fish  may  be  omitted,  if  one  pre- 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     175 

fers,  and  creamed  chicken  au  gratin  come  next,  or 
chicken  served  in  some  other  way,  or  chops.  This 
would  be  also  the  time  to  bring  the  chafing-dish 
into  service,  and  to  cook  in  it  oysters,  or  fish,  or 
meat,  or  cheese,  or  eggs,  or  any  of  the  other  dain- 
ties known  to  the  chafing-dish  expert.  These  are 
served  directly  from  the  chafing  dish. 

This  course  may  be  succeeded  by  a  salad,  or  ac- 
companied by  it  if  one  prefers,  and  there  should 
be  an  effort  to  have  the  salad  something  a  little  un- 
usual. Salads  without  number  are  possible  nowa- 
days, and  nearly  every  week  brings  the  suggestion 
of  a  fresh  one. 

Next,  the  sweet,  and  this,  too,  may  be  simple  or 
elaborate,  as  one  pleases.  Ice-cream  is  not  indis- 
pensable. Stewed  figs,  figs  and  green  ginger,  ber- 
ries in  jelly  with  whipped  cream  over  them  or  au 
naturel  or  with  cream,  tarts  of  fruit  or  anything 
else,  syllabubs,  such  as  they  know  how  to  make  in 
the  Old  Dominion,  and  which  may  easily  be  made 
at  the  North  in  a  region  where  cream  and  eggs  are 
plenty  —  there  is  no  need  that  I  should  make  fur- 
ther suggestions.  To  end,  a  cup  of  coffee,  unless  it 
is  preferred  to  serve  this  with  the  second  course. 
My  description  of  the  two  luncheons  in  my  intro- 


176    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

duction  may  supply  suggestions  for  changing  plates 
and  other  service. 

The  supper,  whether  for  Sunday  night  or  some 
other  occasion,  is  conducted  much  along  the  lines 
of  the  luncheon,  and  is  even  more  informal.  It 
rarely  begins  with  a  soup  or  appetizer,  unless  it 
may  be  toast  or  thin  bread  and  butter  with  caviare 
or  anchovy  paste  or  something  of  the  sort.  The 
solid  is  usually  prepared  in  the  chafing-dish.  The 
suggestions  for  this  are  numberless.  Eggs  d,  la 
Newhurg,  or  curried,  or  deviled,  or  panned,  or  in 
black  butter,  or  poached  in  cream  or  tomato  sauce, 
or  in  combination  with  fish,  flesh,  or  fowl,  or  in  a 
Scotch  woodcock;  cheese  in  a  rarebit  or  a  fondu 
(and  every  man  there  will  have  his  own  view  how 
the  rarebit  should  be  made,  agreeing  upon  one  point 
only,  that  his  method  differs  entirely  from  the  one 
followed  at  the  moment)  ;  oysters,  or  clams,  or  lob- 
ster or  crab  meat  a  la  poulette  or  a  la  Dewey  or 
a  la  Newhurg  or  deviled,  chicken  terrapin  or  au 
supreme  or  in  any  one  of  a  dozen  other  ways  — 
there  is  no  limit  to  the  dishes,  and  they  may  be  as 
inexpensive  or  as  costly  as  one  chooses  to  make 
them. 

The  second  course  at  such  a  supper  should  not 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     177 

be  elaborate.  Cold  meat,  if  one  wants  it,  with  a 
salad,  or,  if  the  salad  is  rather  heavy  and  substan- 
tial food  has  been  served  from  the  chafing-dish,  the 
cold  meat  may  well  be  left  out.  If  it  appears  it 
may  be  cold  tongue  or  chicken,  turkey  or  duck, 
ham,  lamb,  veal,  or  beef,  or  veal  loaf,  galantine  or 
jellied  chicken,  and  the  salad  may  be  suitable  to  ac- 
company it. 

The  sweet  should  not  be  rich.  Enough  tax  has 
already  probably  been  laid  upon  the  digestion. 
Fruit  or  cream  cheese  and  jam  or  something  of 
equal  simplicity  should  conclude  the  meal.  Choc- 
olate or  cofifee  may  be  served  at  the  second  course 
in  large  cups,  or  at  the  end  in  demi-tasses. 

For  supper  the  table  is  spread  as  for  luncheon. 
The  hors  d'ceuvre  are  served  or  omitted,  as  one 
pleases.  The  chafing-dish  is  on  the  table  from  the 
first,  and  the  cups  and  saucers  may  be  put  on  the 
table  when  it  is  set. 

For  a  late-at-night  supper,  after  a  card-party  or 
similar  affair,  the  supper  is  a  little  less  substantial. 
The  chafing-dish  preparation  may  be  there,  but  the 
second  course  may  be  left  out  altogether,  or  only  a 
salad,  and  that  not  rich  or  elaborate,  given  after 
the  chafing-dish  dainty.     This,  by  the  way,  in  the 


178    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE 


/ 


interests  of  humanity,  should  not  be  too  deaaly. 
Many  a  man  will  feel  safe  in  taking  liberties  yith 
his  digestion  on  Sunday  night  —  perhaps  fancying 
that  the  sanctity  of  the  day  may  have  a  happy  effect 
upon  the  gastronomic  apparatus  —  who  would  hes- 
itate to  run  a  like  risk  at  the  end  of  a  social  evening 
which  has  followed  a  long  working-day  and  a 
hearty  dinner. 

In  warm  weather  the  chafing-dish  is  best  dis- 
missed, and  the  late  supper  may  consist  of  a  salad, 
thin  bread  and  butter  or  sandwiches,  and  iced 
drinks  of  some  sort.  Fruit  punches  and  similar 
summer  drinks  are  many,  both  with  and  without 
alcohol.  Whether  the  supper  be  early  or  late,  Sun- 
day or  week-night,  the  services  of  a  maid  may  well 
be  dispensed  with.  Part  of  the  enjoyment  of  such 
an  occasion  is  due  to  its  unconventionality,  and  the 
men  of  the  party  may  wait  on  themselves  and  on 
the  women  present  with  no  breach  of  decorum. 

The  hostess  contemplating  an  afternoon  tea  has 
even  smoother  sailing  than  when  planning  a  supper. 
Besides  getting  her  house  in  fresh  order  and  ar- 
ranging her  flowers,  her  chief  preliminary  work 
will  be  making  cake  and  sandwiches.  Both  are  es- 
sential at  an  afternoon  tea  where  guests  are  enter- 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     179 

tained,  but  the  choice  of  what  each  shall  be  is  un- 
limited. The  sandwiches  are  as  much  comme  il 
faut,  when  of  thin  bread  and  butter  folded  in  two 
and  cut  into  squares  or  triangles  or  circles,  as  when 
they  are  filled  with  pate  de  foie  gras  or  anything 
else  equally  costly.  The  medium  between  these  ex- 
tremes is  taken  by  sandwiches  of  minced  chicken 
or  tongue  or  ham,  or  of  cheese  and  nuts,  or  cheese 
and  lettuce,  or  any  one  of  a  dozen  other  fillings, 
and  the  bread  may  be  white,  brown,  whole  wheat, 
graham,  gluten,  or  any  other  variety. 

The  same  license  prevails  about  cake.  Home- 
made or  fancy,  either  will  serve,  and  may  be  one 
or  two  kinds  or  a  larger  selection.  Salted  nuts  and 
bonbons  may  also  be  offered. 

The  tea  must  be  the  best  and  carefully  brewed. 
An  excellent  plan  is  to  make  it  very  strong  early 
in  the  afternoon,  and,  when  it  has  drawn  five  min- 
utes, to  turn  it  from  the  leaves.  It  may  then  be 
kept  hot,  and  diluted  with  boiling  water  as  one 
pleases,  with  no  dread  that  tannic  acid  is  developing 
by  long  steeping. 

When  the  hostess  intends  to  have  more  than  half 
a  dozen  or  so  guests  at  her  tea,  she  should,  unless 
she  has  daughters  to  aid  her,  invite  some  one  to 


i8o    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

help  her  pour  the  tea  or  the  tea  and  coffee  or  choco- 
late she  offers  her  friends.  In  any  case  it  is  well 
to  secure  the  services  of  some  young  girls  or  inti- 
mate friends  who  will  supplement  the  activities  of 
the  hostess  and  see  that  no  one  is  overlooked. 

At  a  small  function  where  the  tea  is  made  by 
the  hostess  or  her  daughter  or  friend  in  the  draw- 
ing-room, the  tea-table  is  supplied  with  hot-water 
kettle,  tea-caddy,  and  tea-pot.  When  the  table  is 
large  enough  the  cups  and  saucers,  sugar-bowl  and 
cream-jug  and  saucer  of  sliced  lemon,  may  also 
be  here  or  on  another  small  table.  Several  small 
tables  to  be  set  in  front  of  the  guests,  that  they 
may  take  their  tea  in  comfort,  will  prove  an  addi- 
tion to  the  coziness  of  the  occasion.  For  such  a 
purpose  the  pretty  and  inexpensive  folding-tables 
are  excellent,  and  are  especially  desirable  for  the 
dweller  in  flats  with  small  extra  space  at  command. 


XX 

The   Stag   Repast  Without 
Service 

The  home  stag  dinner  is  growing  in  popularity, 
especially  in  small  places  and  among  men  who  wish 
to  show  hospitality  without  extravagance.  Once  it 
was  almost  unheard  of  in  those  circumstances. 
The  man  of  means  who  lived  in  a  large  city  enter- 
tained his  men  friends  at  his  club  or  at  a  restaurant, 
or  not  at  all.  In  a  small  town,  which  boasted  no 
club  or  satisfactory  hostelry,  he  gratified  his  long- 
ings for  social  intercourse  with  other  men  by  lodge 
meetings,  town  meetings,  the  card  club  of  the  com- 
muters' train,  or  the  post-ofifice  parliament  and 
corner-grocery  council,  according  to  his  social 
standing  and  his  opportunities.  The  man  who  had 
no  such  outlet  contented  himself  with  the  mild 
mixed  society  afforded  by  the  occasional  teacup 
gatherings  of  his  wife's  friends  and  their  husbands. 

But  now,  at  last,  the  long  down-trodden  man  is 
beginning  to  have  a  few  chances  to  get  his  innings. 

l8i 


i82     "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

The  wave  of  altruistic  socialism  that  is  sweeping 
over  the  world  has  reached  even  to  him,  and  wives 
recognize  the  fact  that  mere  men  may  like  to  meet 
and  talk,  even  although  they  may  not  be  parsons, 
lawyers,  or  doctors.  For  the  benefit  of  these  three 
classes  a  convention  has  long  existed,  by  virtue 
of  which  it  was  considered  right  that  they  should 
gather  together  at  stated  periods,  presumably  to  ex- 
change great  thoughts  upon  the  subjects  to  which 
their  lives  were  devoted.  To-day,  however,  the 
"  common  or  garden  variety  "  of  business  or  pro- 
fessional man  has  had  accorded  to  him  the  right  to 
meet  his  fellows  and  chat  with  them  over  food  as 
women  for  generations  have  gossiped  over  their 
tea.  And  from  these  deliberations  it  is  agreed  that 
the  opposite  sex  is  best  absent. 

Preparations  for  the  home  stag  party  naturally 
devolve  upon  the  wife  of  the  man  who  gives  the 
party.  She  may  not  preside  over  the  board,  as 
in  her  secret  soul  she  yearns  to  do,  but  she  may 
at  least  make  ready  for  the  guests,  and  if  she  is 
the  right  kind  of  a  woman  she  will  probably  do  it 
with  genuine  pleasure  in  the  enjoyment  she  antici- 
pates for  her  husband.  Moreover,  she  would  not 
be  a  woman  if  with  this  altruistic  joy  there  were 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     183 

not  mingled  a  pride  in  showing  how  well  she  can 
do  in  the  circumstances.  A  stag  dinner  or  supper 
is  a  simple  affair  in  a  home  where  there  is  a  butler 
or  a  waitress.  It  is  quite  another  matter  in  an  es- 
tablishment where  no  maid  is  kept  and  the  house- 
keeper, knowing  that  every  man  at  the  festivity  will 
go  home  and  tell  his  wife  all  about  it,  girds  up  her 
loins  and  resolves  to  do  mightily  or  perish  in  the 
attempt.  The  fact  that  she  is  probably  handi- 
capped by  the  necessity  for  economy  as  well  as  by 
lack  of  service  is  only  an  additional  incentive. 

Since  the  housekeeper  is  not  to  enter  the  dining- 
room  after  the  guests  are  assembled,  ever)d:hing 
that  can  possibly  be  needed  must  be  there  in  ad- 
vance. If  her  husband  is  like  a  majority  of  men- 
folk he  would  be  hard  put  to  it  to  supply  any  de- 
ficiency she  might  leave.  The  table  itself  must  be 
well  stocked,  and  the  serving-table  must  supply  the 
lack  of  the  butler. 

A  regular  dinner  can  hardly  be  planned  for  in 
the  conditions,  and  the  skill  of  the  caterer  must  be 
expended  to  make  a  meal  which  will  take  so  well  the 
place  of  the  ordinary  dinner  that  no  one  will  notice 
a  defect  in  either  omissions  or  commissions. 
Should  a  soup  be  served,  it  must  be  in  cups  and 


i84    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

heavy  in  character  —  like  mock  turtle.  Such  pre- 
ambles as  oysters,  clams,  and  fruit  are  out  of  the 
question,  and  the  woman  is  wise  who  boldly  turns 
her  back  upon  all  conventions  connected  with  the 
dinner  hour  and  calls  her  husband's  stag  party  a 
supper.  This  name  covers  a  multitude  of  short- 
comings and  disarms  criticism. 

In  these  days  of  an  advanced  higher  education 
for  the  masses  there  are  few  men  who  have  not 
a  little  knowledge  of  how  to  handle  a  chafing-dish. 
If  the  man  who  is  to  give  the  party  is  lacking  in 
this  branch  of  erudition  it  is  well  for  his  wife  to 
give  him  a  few  lessons  in  advance  — '  unless  he  num- 
bers among  his  prospective  guests  some  one  who 
is  considered  by  himself  and  others  to  be  an  adept 
in  that  line.  In  this  case  let  the  housekeeper  find 
the  details  of  the  dishes  in  whose  preparation  the 
adept  especially  fancies  himself,  procure  from  him 
a  list  of  the  necessary  ingredients,  and  leave  the  re- 
sult on  the  knees  of  the  gods.  It  is  henceforth  out- 
side of  her  jurisdiction. 

If  her  own  man-body  is  to  do  the  cooking,  how- 
ever, and  if  he  has  a  faculty  in  this  line,  she  should 
have  no  difficulty  in  selecting  a  dish  which  will  ap- 
peal to  the  palates  of  the  diners.     Scotch  woodcock 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     185 

or  some  dish  of  oysters  or  chicken  or  cheese  will 
do  to  begin  the  feast.  Should  such  a  contingency 
arise  as  that  none  of  the  men  can  conduct  a  chafing- 
dish,  she  herself  can  prepare  the  dainty  in  the  dish 
just  before  the  guests  are  summoned  to  the  table. 
The  hot  water  in  the  lower  pan  will  keep  the  con- 
tents of  the  upper  one  warm. 

When  more  than  one  hot  dish  is  desired  it  is  well 
to  have  two  chafing-dishes  —  not  for  cookery,  but 
to  serve  as  bains-marie.  In  one  of  these  may  be  a 
savory  vegetable  —  or  one  may  contain  a  dish  of 
eggs,  the  other  one  of  shell-fish  or  of  poultry  or 
cheese.  One  or  two  vegetables  may  be  kept  hot  in 
covered  bake-dishes.  A  supply  of  warm  bread  may 
also  be  placed  in  a  covered  dish.  Minor  delicacies, 
like  olives,  nuts,  radishes,  etc.,  are  not  strictly 
needed  at  such  a  meal,  although  they  will  doubtless 
be  eaten  if  provided.  The  salad  is  a  consideration, 
and  it  should  be  something  rather  substantial. 
Rare  are  the  men  who  do  not  cherish  a  conviction 
that  there  is  no  dish  much  better  than  chicken  salad 
—  unless  it  may  be  lobster  salad.  If,  however,  the 
early  part  of  the  supper  has  included  either  one  of 
these  viands,  a  green  salad  may  be  served  instead, 
and  there  will  surely  be  some  man  who  prides  him- 


,l86    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

self  on  his  ability  to  mix  a  salad  dressing,  and  will 
gladly  undertake  this  part  of  the  work. 

Cheese  there  must  be,  and  of  more  than  one  kind. 
Camembert  and  Swiss,  perhaps,  or  Roquefort  and 
club-house.  In  these  days,  when  so  many  of  the 
fancy  cheeses  are  put  up  in  glass  jars,  they  may  be 
procured  in  all  parts  of  the  country,  and  no  one 
need  be  debarred  because  his  home  is  far  from  a 
large  city  market. 

Sweets  are  less  popular  among  men  than  among 
women,  and  few  of  the  guests  would  miss  a  dessert 
from  such  a  meal  as  this.  Should  one  be  served 
it  may  be  a  charlotte-russe  or  a  jelly  or  a  tipsy  cake 
— I  unless,  indeed,  one  boldly  defies  the  thought  of 
future  retribution  and  rejoices  the  palates  with  a 
pie  —  the  more  unwholesome  the  better ! 

Coffee  may  be  kept  hot  in  an  urn.  Wines  and 
liquors  are  often  served  at  such  suppers,  but  this  is 
a  matter  to  be  determined  by  the  host,  who  will 
make  his  own  selection  of  these  beverages. 

For  such  a  supper  much  thought  must  be  given 
by  the  housekeeper,  as  I  have  already  intimated,  to 
arranging  provisions,  dishes,  etc.,  in  such  a  fashion 
that  they  will  be  ready  to  hand  when  they  are 
needed.     To  this  main  consideration  many  details 


"LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE"     187 

must  be  subjected.  At  a  gathering  of  men  there 
is  little  appreciation  of  delicate  doilies,  filmy  center- 
pieces, artistic  candle  shades,  and  the  like  and  these 
are  out  of  place.  The  table  may  be  bare  except  for 
a  round  or  a  square  in  the  middle  and  a  doily  under 
each  plate.  The  light  would  better  come  from  over 
the  table  than  from  candelabra,  which  take  up  space 
and  interfere  with  the  men's  .service  of  themselves 
and  one  another. 

Each  cover  or  place  should  be  supplied  with  a 
water-glass,  a  bread-and-butter  plate,  a  couple  of 
knives,  two  or  three  forks,  two  teaspoons,  a  napkin, 
and  two  plates,  one  placed  on  the  other.  The  upper 
of  the  two  should  be  heated  for  the  product  of  the 
chafing-dish.  A  piece  of  bread  or  a  roll  and  a  but- 
ter-ball should  be  on  each  bread-and-butter  plate. 
At  one  end  of  the  table  may  be  the  chafing-dish,  at 
the  other  the  cofifee-urn.  Around  the  latter  may  be 
grouped  the  cups  and  saucers.  About  the  chafing- 
dish  .should  be  placed  the  necessary  spoons  and 
measuring-cup,  the  bowl  for  mixing,  the  seasonings 
required.  On  one  side  of  the  table  should  be  a  plate 
of  hot  bread,  on  the  other  the  dish  of  salad,  the  fork 
and  spoon  for  serving  it  close  at  hand. 

Should  the  host  preside  over  either  the  chafing- 


i88    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

dish  or  the  coffee-urn,  his  seat  will  naturally  be  at 
one  end  of  the  table.  In  either  case,  close  enough 
to  his  right  hand  to  be  within  easy  reach  without 
impeding  the  movement  of  his  arm  in  mixing  or 
pouring,  should  be  a  serving-table  —  or  butler's 
tray,  or  dinner  wagon  —  whichever  one  chooses  to 
call  it.  One  of  the  "  double-deckers  "  is  the  most 
useful  in  the  circumstances,  although  the  ordinary 
table  may  be  made  to  answer. 

On  this  table  should  stand  the  sweet  —  if  sweet 
there  be  —  with  the  necessities  for  serving  it,  a 
few  extra  cups,  saucers,  and  plates,  knives,  forks, 
spoons,  and  napkins  in  case  of  accident  to  those  al- 
ready on  the  table,  and  any  other  articles  for  which 
there  is  not  space  on  the  main  board  —  crackers, 
cheese,  celery,  etc. 

A  little  drilling  as  to  how  to  conduct  matters  will 
not  be  out  of  place  for  the  master  of  the  revels,  un- 
less he  has  had  a  good  deal  of  experience.  When 
he  leads  his  friends  out  to  the  dining-room  every- 
thing should  be  in  readiness  for  the  first  course, 
so  that  it  will  be  a  simple  matter  for  him  to  serve 
his  guests  from  the  chafing-dish,  the  hot  bake-dish 
of  potatoes  om  gratin,  or  scalloped  tomatoes,  or 
baked  onions,  or  whatever  other  vegetable  has  been 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     189 

provided.  The  coffee  can  also  be  poured  at  this 
stage. 

After  the  first  course  has  been  eaten  and  there  is 
need  for  the  lower  clean  plate  for  salad,  cheese,  etc., 
it  is  a  simple  matter  for  the  guests  to  pass  their 
plates,  with  the  knives  and  forks  that  have  been 
used,  up  to  the  host,  who  sets  them  off  on  the  lower 
shelf  of  the  serving-table,  if  it  is  a  two-shelved  af- 
fair, or  on  the  back  of  the  table  if  a  lower  shelf  is 
lacking.  The  fresh  plates  are  then  in  readiness  for 
the  next  course.  Should  the  chafing-dish  or  any  of 
its  appurtenances  be  in  the  way  they  also  can  be 
set  off  on  the  side  table  by  the  host,  and  on  the  main 
table,  in  place  of  the  articles  removed,  he  can  put 
the  cheese  and  crackers.  If  there  is  a  spirit-lamp 
under  the  coffee-urn  the  second  cup  may  be  as  hot 
as  the  first. 

The  service  of  a  sweet  presents  only  a  trifling 
complication.  Should  the  serving-table  be  large 
enough  to  receive  the  second  set  of  soiled  plates 
without  crowding,  there  will  be  no  trouble  at  all, 
but  it  may  be  incumbent  upon  the  host  to  pile  some 
of  the  plates  on  top  of  one  another  before  he  can 
make  space  for  all.  The  cheese  need  not  go  off 
when  the  pie  or  other  sweet  comes  on  —  indeed. 


I90    "LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE" 

the  ordinary  niceties  of  removing  all  savory  dishes 
before  the  appearance  of  the  dessert  is  honored  in 
the  breach  on  such  an  occasion  as  this.  If  a  third 
fork  was  placed  by  the  plate  when  the  table  was 
spread  the  only  changing  to  be  done  is  to  hand  a 
fresh  plate  to  each  guest,  at  the  same  time  taking 
from  him  the  plate  last  used.  The  cheese  may  be 
pushed  to  one  side  in  order  that  there  may  be  space 
for  the  sweet. 

As  will  be  seen,  this  meal  need  not  be  a  porten- 
tous undertaking.  The  housekeeper  who  is  accus- 
tomed to  preparing  the  meals  for  her  family  will 
find  little  extra  work  in  such  a  supper  as  I  have 
outlined.  When  the  host  is  thoroughly  at  his  ease, 
as  most  men  are  in  similar  circumstances,  the  sup- 
per is  almost  sure  to  go  off  well.  The  men  may 
feel  at  liberty  to  get  up  and  move  about  the  room, 
replenish  their  own  plates,  or  glasses  or  cups,  and 
all  freedom  is  permitted  in  the  way  of  passing 
plates,  reaching  across  the  table  for  anything 
needed,  and  similar  informalities  which  would  not 
be  tolerated  at  a  dinner  served  in  accordance  with 
ordinary  conventions. 

At  such  a  "  spread  "  as  this  the  guests  are  prone 
to  sit  late,  but  it  may  be  remarked,  as  a  gentle  re- 


LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     191 


minder,  that  if  the  host  leads  the  party  back  to  the 
drawing-room  at  the  close  of  the  meal  he  furnishes 
his  wife  a  longed-for  opportunity  to  come  in  and 
remove  the  debris  and  restore  the  room  to  its  nor- 
mal condition. 

Perhaps  I  have  seemed  to  deal  too  much  in  glit- 
tering generalities  in  outlining  this  bill  of  fare.  If 
I  have  done  so  it  is  because  the  choice  of  the  items 
is  usually  decided  by  the  financial  circumstances  of 
the  hostess.  When  money  is  little  or  no  object  for 
this  special  occasion,  she  may  sally  forth  boldly  to 
make  her  choice  of  provisions  in  the  markets  with 
her  knowledge  of  what  she  knows  her  husband  likes 
and  thinks  his  friends  would  fancy  for  guide.  But 
it  is  not  likely  so  Utopian  a  state  of  affairs  prevails 
with  the  woman  who  is  preparing  a  stag  party  to  be 
managed  by  herself  alone.-  The  brains  that  must 
devise  contrivances  to  supply  the  lack  of  a  butler 
must  also  be  put  to  work  to  achieve  a  high-priced  re- 
past— 'Or  what  produces  the  impression  of  being 
such  a  meal  —  on  a  rather  slim  outlay  of  money. 

Granting,  for  the  sake  of  argument,  that  she  can 
indulge  herself  on  this  festive  occasion,  she  can  have 
nothing  better  for  the  main  dish  of  the  feast  than  a 
big  platter  of  broiled  or  fried  chicken,  or  an  array 


^I 


192    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  M 

/  

; 

of  broiled  birds,  or  a  fine  roast  turkey.  Any  one 
of  these  is  sure  to  appeal  to  the  palates  of  the  men 
assembled.  But  should  economy  be  an  essential 
she  may  either  buy  a  big  steak  (which  is  not  so  very 
economical,  after  all),  a  stuffed  shoulder  of  veal, 
or  else  prepare  a  fine  piece  of  beef  a  la  mode,  which 
done  the  right  way,  is,  by  the  way,  a  very  different 
article  from  the  dish  that  masquerades  at  restau- 
rants under  that  name. 

A  casserole  is  a  godsend  for  such  a  meal  as  this. 
Not  only  does  it  possess  the  merit  of  keeping  its 
contents  hot,  but  it  enables  the  hostess  to  devise 
savory  combinations  at  less  cost  than  is  possible 
with  choice  cuts  prepared  after  a  plainer  mode. 
The  products  of  a  casserole,  if  properly  managed, 
are  so  appetizing  that  mere  man  will  not  stop  to 
count  the  cost  while  rejoicing  his  palate. 

Steak  en  casserole  is  good,  chops  en  casserole  are 
better,  chicken  en  casserole  is  best.  But  here  again 
comes  in  the  item  of  expense,  for  it  takes  a  clever 
woman  to  make  good  casserole  of  chicken  out  of 
anything  but  a  youngling  of  a  flock,  although  with 
care  a  fowl  may  be  treated  in  such  a  fashion  that 
no  one  will  conjecture  its  years.  But  chops  en  cas- 
serole, if  well  prepared,  with  Parisian  potato-balls, 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     193 

mushrooms,  peas,  and  plenty  of  savory  gravy,  will 
leave  no  place  for  criticism  in  the  minds  of  the  eat- 
ers. 

The  cost  of  the  main  dish  and  that  of  the  salad 
may  offset  each  other.  If  a  lobster  salad  has  been 
served  a  cheaper  main  dish  may  be  offered,  while 
if  the  principal  plat  of  the  feast  is  costly  the  salad 
may  be  something  less  expensive  —  like  a  mace- 
doine  of  vegetables  or  a  fruit  salad,  which,  while  a 
little  trouble  to  compound,  is  less  costly  than  either 
lobster  or  chicken. 


XXI 

Home-Made  Cakes  for  Afternoon 
Tea 

The  afternoon  tea  has  come  to  stay.  It  is  too 
convenient  a  function  to  be  dispensed  with.  There 
is  no  pleasanter  or  easier  way  of  paying  off  a  massi 
of  social  obligations  than  by  having  a  tea.  To  this 
end  elaborate  afternoon  receptions,  still  called 
"  teas,"  are  given,  and  at  these  crowded  affairs  one 
is  served  with  salads,  sandwiches,  frappes,  and 
cakes  of  all  kinds,  while  the  beverages  range  from 
tea  and  coffee  to  punches. 

It  is  not,  however,  of  such  a  function  that  the 
housewife  in  modern  means  thinks  when  she  would 
entertain  her  friends.  With  little  expense  she  may 
have  a  "  day  "  or  a  series  of  "  days  "  during  the 
winter,  without  calling  to  her  aid  a  caterer  or  an 
army  of  servants.  She  and  her  one  maid  can  make 
all  necessary  preparations,  and  furnish  the  simple 
refreshments  required. 

As  the  rooms  would  have  to  be  lighted  for  the 

early  winter  twilight,  it  is  well  to  draw  down  the 

194 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     195 

shades  at  first  and  have  the  apartment  illuminated 
with  shaded  lamps  and  candles.  There  is  nothing 
prettier  or  more  becoming  than  this  subdued  and 
shaded  effulgence.  On  the  tea  table  may  stand  a 
tall  candelabrum,  while  its  mate  has  its  place  upon 
the  top  of  the  upright  piano.  A  dainty  little  lamp 
—  what  we  used  to  call  a  "  fairy  lamp,"  when  such 
ones  were  first  in  vogue, —  is  on  one  end  of  the 
chimney-shelf.  A  larger  lamp  with  a  soft  pink 
globe  is  on  a  table  near  the  door.  One  may  have 
as  many  of  such  lights  as  she  wishes,  and  yet  there 
will  be  no  glare  to  try  the  eyes  and  call  into  evi- 
dence unbecoming  wrinkles,  as  do  the  merciless 
electric  lights. 

Upon  a  tea  table  presided  over  by  a  friend  of  the 
hostess  are  the  teapot  and  the  canister,  the  spirit 
lamp  and  plates  of  dainty  sandwiches  cut  in  various 
shapes,  and  fancy  cakes  of  all  sorts.  Here,  too, 
may  be  served  coffee.  With  the  cups  of  the  smok- 
ing beverages  will  be  passed  sugar,  cream,  and  thin 
slices  of  lemon.  The  sandwiches  may  be  of  brown 
bread  and  white,  with  delicious  fillings,  and  the 
fancy  cakes  simple  or  elaborate,  as  the  hostess  may 
decree. 

To  the  woman  who  will  make  herself  mistress  of 


196    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

the  art  of  preparing  homemade  fancy  cakes,  the  af- 
ternoon tea  has  few  terrors  so  far  as  expenses  is 
concerned.  At  first  she  may  find  it  a  little  hard  to 
manufacture  these  toothsome  dainties,  but  she  will 
soon  become  accustomed  to  the  work,  and  will  be 
surprised  to  find  how  many  varieties  she  can  "  turn 
out."  The  essentials  are  suitable  materials  and  an 
abundance  of  patience.  A  novice  must  not  be  dis- 
couraged if,  at  first,  her  boiled  icing  becomes  granu- 
lated or  sugary,  and  if  the  cake  is  sometimes  too 
crumbly  to  cut  into  just  the  desired  shapes.  After 
several  trials  she  will  learn  when  the  correct  point 
in  boiling  the  syrup  is  reached,  and  just  how  stiff 
the  batter  must  be.  She  must  always  have  on  hand 
a  supply  of  vegetable  colorings, —  especially  pink 
and  green  and  violet, —  and  such  nuts  as  almonds 
and  English  walnuts,  with  a  plentiful  stock  of  cur- 
rants and  raisins.  Citron,  also,  may  play  an  im- 
portant part  in  the  decoration  of  the  cakes.  Al- 
mond paste  can  be  bought  already  prepared  for  the 
macaroons. 

Before  giving  the  following  recipes  for  fancy 
cakes  of  various  sorts,  it  may  be  well  to  tell  just 
how  the  boiled  icing,  essential  to  a  well-frosted 
fancy  cake,  must  be  prepared. 


"  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     197 

BOILED  ICING 

Into  a  perfectly  clean,  porcelain-lined  saucepan 
put  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar  and  a  teacupful  of 
water.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  but  do  not  stir. 
At  the  end  of  fifteen  minutes  begin  to  test  the 
syrup  by  dipping  into  it  the  tip  of  a  fork.  When 
the  drops  run  from  the  fork  slowly,  leaving  after 
the  last  one  a  blunt  end,  the  correct  point  is  nearly 
reached,  and  the  syrup  must  be  watched  carefully. 
As  soon  as  there  floats  from  this  blunt  bit  what  ap- 
pears to  be  a  very  fine  hair,  the  syrup  -must  be  re- 
moved immediately  from  the  fire.  Set  in  a  cool 
place  until  a  little  more  than  blood  warm,  and  then 
beat  the  mixture  to  a  white  mass.  When  too  stiff 
to  stir  it  may  be  worked  with  the  hands.  This  is 
the  fondant  icing  for  the  cakes.  When  it  is  to  be 
used,  the  vessel  containing  it  is  set  in  an  outer  vessel 
of  boiling  water.  The  fondant  icing  is  then  beaten 
until  it  is  again  a  soft  white  mass.  This  may  be 
flavored  and  colored  to  suit  the  taste.  A  few 
drops  of  spinach  or  other  green  vegetable  coloring 
will  make  a  delicate  shade  of  pale  green,  a  little 
cochineal  will  give  an  exquisite  pink  shade,  while 
melted  chocolate  may  be  added  until  you  have  the 
desired  brown.     Spread  quickly  on  the  cakes  with 


198    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

a  knife  dipped  in  boiling  water.  Small  cakes  that 
are  to  be  iced  all  over  are  thrust  through  with  a 
long-pronged  pickle-fork  and  plunged  into  the  fond- 
ant, then  quickly  withdrawn  and  set  on  platters  to 
dry.  A  quantity  of  fondant  may  be  prepared  at  a 
time  and  set  a,way  in  jelly  glasses  covered  with 
paper,  until  needed.  A  little  may  be  softened  over 
boiling  water  and  used  as  it  is  wanted.  Each  time 
it  is  heated,  the  hardening  process  is  quickened. 
Use  it  briskly  after  making  it  hot. 

SQUARE  CHOCOLATE  CAKES 

Rub  to  a  cream  a  half  cup  of  butter  and  a  tea- 
cupful  of  sugar,  add  four  well-whipped  eggs  and 
seven  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate  dissolved 
in  a  half  cup  of  scalding  milk.  Flavor  with  vanilla 
and  stir  in  lightly  a  pint  of  flour  sifted  with  a  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a 
square  biscuit-pan.  When  done,  and  almost-  cool, 
cut  the  cake  in  halves.  Spread  the  lower  half  with 
a  chocolate  filling,  or  with  chocolate  icing.  Lay 
the  other  half  on  top  of  it,  and,  with  a  sharp  knife, 
cut  into  squares  of  a  uniform  size.  Cover  each  of 
these  smoothly  with  chocolate  icing. 


LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  "     199 


NUT  CAKES 

Cream  a  half  cup  of  butter  with  one  cup  of  sugar, 
add  three  well-beaten  egg  yolks,  a  gill  of  cold  water, 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  rather  thin  batter  alter- 
nately with  the  stiffened  whites  of  the  eggs.  Last 
of  all,  stir  in  lightly  a  cup  of  chopped  hickory-nut 
kernels,  plentifully  dredged  with  flour.  Bake  in 
small  round  tins.  When  cold,  ice,  and  place  half 
of  a  nut  on  the  top  of  each  cake  while  the  icing  is 
still  soft. 

MARSHMALLOW  CAKES 

Cream  a  cup  of  butter  with  two  cups  of  powdered 
sugar,  add  a  small  cup  of  sweet  milk, and  the  stiff- 
ened whites  of  five  eggs  alternately  with  a  scant 
quart  of  prepared  flour.  Bake  in  a  large  square 
card,  as  directed  in  the  recipe  for  chocolate  cakes. 
When  cold,  cut  the  cake  into  squares.  Spread  half 
of  them  with  a  marshmallow  filling  and  put  the 
other  squares  on  top  of  these.  Press  the  upper  and 
lower  halves  closely  together. 

MACAROONS 

For  this  you  will  need  six  ounces  of  almond  paste, 
a  cup  and  a  half  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  whites 
of  two  eggs.     Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 


200    "  LIKE  MOTHER  USED  TO  MAKE  " 

the  almond  paste  chopped  fine  and  the  sugar,  make 
the  mixture  into  balls  with  the  fingers  and  bake  on 
greased  paper  laid  in  pans.  The  oven  should  be  of 
moderate  heat.  They  should  brown  delicately  and 
may  then  be  ^aken  from  the  oven,  though  they 
should  not  be  removed  from  the  pan  until  they  are 
entirely  cold. 

JUMBLES 

These  are  excellent  to  make  at  the  same  time  with 
the  macaroons.  They  require  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
a  heaping  cup  of  flour,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of 
sugar,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sherry,  and  flavoring  extract  to  taste, —  lemon, 
rose  or  vanilla.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  mix 
with  the  beaten  yolks,  add  the  flour,  the  flavoring 
and  make  into  small  balls  with  the  fingers.  Lay 
them  on  buttered  paper  in  a  tin,  putting  them  far 
enough  apart  to  allow  for  their  melting  and  spread- 
ing. A  blanched  almond  or  a  raisin  may  be  laid 
on  top  of  each  and  they  should  be  baked  to  a  pale 
yellow, — >not  until  they  brown.  Take  them  from 
the  paper  while  still  warm,  before  they  become  brit- 
tle in  cooling. 


