

* 14^ 


!W 


* 


!:• 


^' 








ii 


c 
c 




oiiwj 


i 



i?tatt College of Agriculture 
^t Cornell ©nibetstitp 



Hifirarp 



TX 3S5.HA23'""""''''''"'""' 



Good cheer; the romance of food and feast 




3 1924 003 534 660 




The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003534660 



GOOD CHEER 



THE ROMANCE OF FOOD AND 
FEASTING 



BY 

FREDERICK W. HACKWOOD 

AUTHOR OF " TI;E GOOD OLD TIMES," " INNS, ALES AND DRINKING CUSTOMS 
OF OLD ENGLAND," ETC. 



T. FISHER UNWIN 

LONDON: ADELPHI TERRACE 

LEIP&IC; INSELSTRASSE 20 

1911 



[All nghU reserved.] 



AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED 

TO 

MY AUNT 

MRS. JAMES HENRY ATKINS 

STREATHAM 



Analytical Table of Contents 



PAGE 

I.— "The Sacred Rage of Hunger" . . 23 

The food impulse — ^The vice of gluttony — Post-prandial 
benevolence — Discovery of fire leads to the art of cookery — 
The food of primeval man — ^Varied with his situation — 
Successive stages of culinary developmeint. 

Geologic " kitchen middens " — fewness of primeval man's 
meals. 



II Culinary Art the Mainspring of Civilisa- 
tion . . . . . .30 

Earliest civilisation — ^The Golden Age — Man's non-flesh 
diet — ^The ambrosia and nectar of the gods — Pythagorean 
vegetarianism. 

Primitive barbarism — Anthropophaginians — The flesh of 
sacrificed animals first eaten. 

Charles Lamb's dfoU dissertation on "the origin of 
roast pig." 

Tjie discovery of salt — The condimenting art — Progress 
of culinary art — The kitchen becomes the focus of human 
society. 

III. — The Dietary of the Scriptures . . 37 

Antediluvian vegetarianism— Flesh food granted — Blood 
prohibited — Simplicitj' of Hebrew fare — "The flesh-pots 
of Egypt" — Miracle of the quails— Eastern acridopo- 
phaginians — Manna, "the bread of heaven." 

Bread and water— ^ioaves and fiishes— Hebrew hospi- 
tality—" The fatted c- Jf "—Rabbinical legend of the fateful 

1 



8 CONTENTS 

PAGE 

"mess of pottage"— "Savoury meat"—" Butter in a lordly 
dish "— " Milk and honey "-Parched corn. 

Clean and unclean animals— Birds— And fishes— The 
paschal lamb — No vegetarian exclusiveness. 

IV.— The Foods and Culinary Practices of 

THE Ancients . . . .46 

Simple meals of a primitive people — Severe regimen of 
the Spartan "Syssitia" — The public mess — Black broth 
of Lycurgus — Sybarite v. Spartan — Why Sparta decayed. 

Pythagorean philosophy — Common tables — Gymnasts 
not vegetarians — Food and cookery of Homeric heroes — 
Greek culinary art — Epicureans. 

The Latins — Sumptuary laws — Excesses of Vitellius — 
Domitian and Heliogabalus. 

The high art of Roman cookery — Pork diet — Invention 
of capons — Lucullus — ^The slave cook — ^Addephagia, God- 
dess of Good Cheer. 

Ancient Egyptians — Their dietary — "The skeleton at 
the feast." 

The ancient leaning towards vegetarianism — Early use 
of legumes — Invention of the grindstone — Mola, Goddess 
of Mills — Invention of bread. 

Parsley — Its virtue — The cabbage adored — ^The leek 
a divinity — The haricot discovered by Alexander — ^And 
the onion. 

Asparagus — Truffles — Mushrooms — ^The cherry — The 
oUve, 



V. — A Roman Banquet . . . .64 

Roman meals — "From the egg to the apples" — The 
dining-room, or canaculum — ^The classical sideboard — 
Tables — ^The sigma — Dining-couches. 

Guests on arrival — Dining-robes — The domestic servants 
—The departure of guests— The elegance of the entertain- 
ment. 

Smollet's burlesque dinner— A pedantic host and his 
cook— A course with a pungent odour— Ludicrous efiforts 
with the triclinia— The. host describes his dishes— Sa/ 
ammoniac and other strange edible;.' — Precipitate disasters 
at table. 



CONTENTS 9 

PAGE 

VI.— Early English Fare . . . .78 

Ancient Britons' dietary — Druidical orgies. 

Saxon intemperance — Danish excesses — " Hogg-tide '' — 
A Saxon dinner. 

The Norman housewife — Dainty feeding — Change of 
habit — Saxon animals and Norman meats. 

Cedric, an English franklin — His household and 
hospitality. 

Norman royal household — The " feast bearer '' — An era 
of profusion. 

Thirteenth-century vegetable foods— Indigenous fruits — 
Imported fruits, wines, sugar, and spicery — A tariff of 
provisions — Prodigious consumption of fish — Yarmouth 
herring pies — Gloucester lamprey pie. 



VII. — Monastic Culinary Influences . . 89 

Monastic cuisine — Refectory officials — Kitchen servitors 
— " Carrodies" or free meals. 

Monastic hospitality — Large fish consumption. 

Prodigality — Famine calls for restriction. 

Ancient kitchens — ^Victualling a garrison — Medieval fare 
of the masses — Some causes of periodical famine. 



VIII.— Right Royal Feasting . . ,96 

A marriage feast — King John's Christmas feast. 

The royal precept for spicery — For wine — Fish and 
other provisions — " Purveyance." 

A precept on the royal farms and forests — The enormous 
quantities required not monkish exaggerations— But the 
scale of magnitude. 

IX.— Baronial Profusion . . . .101 

Baronial hospitality— Its decline unpopular. 

A baronial hall — Its arrangement — The table ceremonial 
— The minstrels. 

Penshurst banqueting-hall. 

The " Forme of Cury " (1390)— Fifteenth-century cook- 
ing— " Mortrewes"—" Subtleties "—Some gorgeous ex- 
amples. 



10 CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Royal dishes — Roasted peacock — Royal swan — 
" Cotagres "—The guests. 

Migratory households — Their commissariat arrange 
ments — An episcopal example. 

Franklin profusion — And epicureanism — The " Glutton 
Mass " — Municipal profusion. 

Mealtimes — Luncheon or " Noon-tion " — Prolonged 
dinners. 

X.— Table Manners of Tudor Times . .119 

Fifteenth-century mealtimes — And fare. 

Regulations of a princely household— " Livery " and 
livery cupboards. 

Henry VIIL's banquets — Always honoured by the 
ladies — The entertainments — The luxuries — The wines. 

The commoner beverages — Acid wines diluted — ^And 
doctored. 

Elizabethan banquets — Burdened by affectation of 
learning — M3rthological pastry-cooks — Magiric magicians 
— Satirised by the dramatists. 

The royal table at Greenwich — Served with almost 
impious ceremonial, 

Elizabethan fare — And mealtimes — The evolution of the 
dining-table — ^The " table of degrees " — Credenza or side- 
board — " Beefeaters." 

XI. — A Period of Change .... 133 

Causes of change — ^The Reformation — Overseas enterprise 
— A restricted dietary. 

London street cries — Sugar and spice — ^And home- 
grown produce. 

City luxury — Pie Corner — Pudding Lane — " Cockayne," 
the land of cookery — The inn ordinary. 

English meat-eating — Reeking slaughter-houses — Salted 
meat — Scurvy a resultant — Prices current iemp. Henry VUL 
—Salad. 

Introduction of new vegetables — Cabbages — Kale — 
Beans — Artichoke — Potato — Leek — Cucumber. 

Fruits — Filbert — Plum — Apricot — Strawberry — Im- 
proved cherries, gooseberries, pears, and apples — The grape 
declines — The quince — Rhubarb as a botanical curiosity. 

Hartlib's project for a vast national orchard. 

Decline of cookery — " Plain roast and boiled." 



CONTENTS 11 



XII.— Introduction of Forks . . .147 

Joints served on the spit — "Trencher bread" — The 
" Carving Squire "—Putting hands in the dish. 

Italian origin of the fork^The fork an affectation in r 
England — Coryate derided as " Furcifer." 

Literary allusions to the fork— Forks used in other coun- 
tries — Chinese chopsticks — Souvenir forks of Charles I. 

Biblical "forks"— The "forks" of the ancients— Bread 
" broken," not cut — " Fingers before forks " — Bidents and 
tridents. 

Rare gold and silver forks of Middle Ages — Forks 
forbidden in convents — Where forks are still a rarity. '! 



XIII. — Forks and Refinement r . . 157 

When the fork should not be used — Basket-hilted knives 
and forks. 

Some artistic forks of the sixteenth century — Italian table 
rnagnificence — The double service of credenza and 
kitchen. 

Artistic spoons — The Apostle spoon — Roman shellfish 
spoon — Annean knives with rounded tops — Sheffield 
cutlery — Knife, fork, and spoon in portable cases. 



XIV.— When England Fed Itself . . 162 

From "spoon meat" to carvable joints^ — Seventeenth- 
century changes. 

English home-grown food products — Saffron-growing 
— Apprentices object to a salmon diet — Popularity of medi- 
cinal herbs. 

, English vegetables — " Eryingoes," and ill-used potatoes — 
Obsolete cookery terms. 

Yeomen's fare — Self-supplying homesteads — The 
peasants' fare. 

More boiling than roasting — Breakfast ale — " Cock ale " 
— Brandy. 

Dinner manners— Weird cookery — Cromwell'sweakness. 

Pepys' gossip on the dietary of the period. 



12 CONTENTS 

PAGE 

XV. — The Roast Beef of Old England. . 173 

Origin of the song—" CoUops." 

Legend of the Sir Loin — Old Fuller's version — 
Henry VIIL as its hero — The Merry Monarch version — 
A spurious ballad attributes the freak to Queen Bess — 
The local historian of Lancashire names James L 

Diminutive beasts — The breed improved by Bakewell — 
Winter keep introduced. 

The return of luxurious living — Poverty of culinary 
inventiveness — A I'Anglaise implies homeliness. 

The barbecue — The turnspit — The baron of beef — The 
saddle of mutton. 

The aldermanic propensity — " The Alderman's v?alk." 

English made-dishes — Salmagundi — Gallimaufry — 
Haricot — Bubble-and-squeak — Lobscouse — Toad-in-the- 
hole — British soups. 

The dawn of hope— The Food Cookery Association. 



XVI.— "The Staff of Life." . . .185 

A small bread consumption — Wheat exported till middle 
of eighteenth century — Rye bread eaten by more than 
half the population — " Blencorn." 

On the brink of starvation in 1800 — ^The various Govern- 
ment palliatives. 

Bread, the " staff of life " in olden times — Simnel bread 
— Pain demayn — Waste! bread — Cocket, or sealed bread — 
Tv»o brown breads, tourte and trele — Black bread— Horse 
bread, of peas and beans. 

Bread-baking— And assaying— Quaint regulations for 
the sale of bread. 

Conventual bread — Panis armigerorum — Panis conven- 
tualis — Panis puerorum — Panis famulorum. 

Price of wheat temp. Henry I.— Regulated traffickings 
in grain and meal — London and Farnham corn-markets. 

Assize of bread— The Cocquet Office— Fraudulent bakers 
— Severe penalties for default — "Bredwite" — The bread 
markings of various denominations— " Standard bread" 
in 1773. 

Wheaten bread a luxury in eighteenth century — Bread 
riots in nineteenth century. 



CONTENTS 13 

PAGE 

XVII. — Seasonal Festivals and Periodic Feast- 

INGS . . . . . .193 

Eating together as an expression of sociability — The 
Roman Saturnalia — Corresponding revels in Middle Ages 
— " Feast of Fools," &c. 

The Christian Year, a cycle of religious feasts — Yule 
feasts and Yule cakes — Genesis of the Christmas Pudding — 
The mince-pie~ Goose eaten at three festivals — The Boar's 
Head — The " hackin," or great Christmas sausage. 

Twelfth Cake — Pancakes — Cartings — CoUops — Mother- 
ing Sunday — Maundy "loaves and fishes." 

Easter eggs — Tansy cakes — Hot-cross buns — Whitsun 
summer fare. 

Local festivities — Wakes — Flauns. 

Non-religious feasts — May-day junketings — Shearers' 
feast, a pastoral celebration — Harvest Home, an agri- 
cultural feast — Lammas, or loaf-mass — Wayzgoose — 
Martinmas. 

Life epoch f eastings — Christening cake — Wedding 
breakfast — Bride-cake — Honeymoon — Funeral feasting — 
The "Sin-eater." 



XVIII. — Local Comestibles of Widespread 

Fame. . . . . .211 

A ready supply of raw material necessary. 

Cornish squab pies — PdUs de foies gras — Oxford mutton 
pies. 

Eccles cakes — Pomfret cakes — Banbury cakes — Rich- 
mond " Maids of Honour " — Legend of the Simnel cake — 
Shrewsbury cakes. 

Chelsea buns — " Sally Lunns " — Bath buns — Scones. 

Newark Penny Loaf Day — Kidderminster Farthing 
Loaf Day. 



XIX. — County Feasts .... 220 

County Associations in London — Attend Divine Service — 
And afterwards dine together. 

A Wiltshire Re-union, 1654 — A Huntingdon County 
Feast, 1678 — ^Yorkshire Society's first meeting, 1678 — 



14 CONTENTS 

PAGE 

"The Yorkshire Feast Song "— D'Urfeys Ode on "The 
Revolution " of 1688 — A Kentish Anniversary Feast, 1701. 
Other county celebrations in London trade halls — 
Musical associations. 

XX. — The Cook and his Art . . . 224 

The art of the cook — Enlarges the resources of mankind — 
Ancient whimsical cookery — A pig roasted one side and 
boiled the other — Fish and flesh counterfeited in 
vegetables. 

Greek writers on cookery — An epic of good eating — ^The 
master cook, a culinary artist. 

The art introduced by the Normans — Richard II's. 
eminent cook — "Forme of Cury" — Saffron — " Blank- 
mang " — " Fysshe " — " Sawse.'' 

The Cook's arms — Chaucer's cook — The cook's influence 
on daily, life — The cook as a comic character — ^As a 
physician. 

Feats of cookery — Some notable cooks — Mighty intel- 
lects devoted to culinary art — The Cordon Bleu — The 
Consultant-Chef. 

State of the culinary art in England — Cottage cookery 
in 1620. 

XXI. — Cookery-book Diversions . . . 240 

Obsolete cookery terms — Tot fai or toSey — "Gyle soups " 
or oUa— Fast day fish — Range of dishes in 1464—" Mortes " 
— " Coulis." 

Fifteenth-century garden stuff — Scarcity of milk and 
butter — Recipes or barbarous " secrets." 

Mayern's Archimagirus — London pie— Medicine and 
cookery. 

"The Pearl of Practice' (1656)— Still-room practice— 
"Water of Life "— Mithridate. 

Etiquette of table terms— For serving fish— Game and 
fowl — Pigeon pie extraordinary. 

" The Accomplished Cook," by Robert May (1671)— A 
Restoration Christmas dinner. 

Sir Kenelm Digby's Receipt book (1671) — Poultry 
feeding— Flomery — Possets— Pap — " Sassage " — Aristo- 
cratic recipes — Meat extract. 



Missing Page 



Missing Page 



CONTENTS 17 

PAGE 

that the eater of beef dulls his wit — The Professor's con- 
clusion that man's spiritual powers need a peculiar kind of 
sustenance. 

XXVII.— Curiosities of Diet . . .319 

Eccentricity and catholicity of taste — Ancient examples — 
Raw mutton — Sodden pork — Beans forbidden — Ostrich 
flesh compulsory. 

The puppy, young fox, and young hawk — The porpoise, 
seal, and echinus eaten. 

British oysters — Fattened snails — Crammed peacocks. 

Salted horse — Cats in jelly — Lizard broth — Thistles. 

Dumas's "Grand Dictionnaire dela Cuisine" — Elephants' 
feet — And other fantastic dishes. 

Scottish dessert-turnips — Broth seasoned with gold. 

XXVIII. — Vegetarianism .... 324 

A widespread cult — A religious observance. 

From a flesh diet to cookery — From cookery to disease 
— Ancient medical dietetics — Found detrimental to obser- 
vance of fasts — And condemned by the Early Fathers. 

Dr. Cheyne's experiment — A severe regimen — Reduced 
enormous bodily bulk — Restored health — And provoked a 
war of wit. 

English poets ranged against a sanguinary diet- 
Shelley's " Vindication of a Natural Diet " — Gay's pity for 
the victims of the shambles — Pope's Strictures on "the 
leaden death " dealt out to innocent birds — B3rron's revolt 
against gross English feeding — What a carnal diet has to 
answer for. 

XXIX. — Anthropophagy . . . .331 

Ogres and child-eaters — The Attacottian taste — A 
Sabbatarian cannibal— A Triadic accusation. 

Persistent charges against the Scots — Crysten Cleek — 
(1339) — The Ogre of Angus (1440) — Sawney Bean — 
"Sheriff broth." 

A recipe for cooking human flesh — "Saracen pork,'' 
a curative dish — A human sacrifice demanded by hospi- 
tality. 

2 



18 CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Civilised ceremonial of Aztec cannibalism — Criminals 
devoured in Sumatra as a punishment — Maori method 
of cooking a prisoner. 

XXX. — Diet and Health, Tastes and Traits . 341 

EfEects on health — Temperament — ^And imagination — 
Fish as a preventive of loquacity — Adder-eaters mute, but 
given to hissing. 

Stomachic peculiarities — Living by rule — Rules for the 
aged — And the sick — Benefits of plain and sparing diet 
— And light suppers. 

The hungry man dangerous — Obesity — Philosophy of 
fasting — ^What to avoid — Disastrous efEects of over-indul- 
gence — Pudding and beef for the fighting Briton. 

The human stomach — Gall — Spleen — Melancholy — 
Apple-pudding depression — Gentleness inspired by as- 
paragus — Plague-disposing diet — Food antipathies. 

Tastes and diet of great men — Dryden's " vulgar 
stomach" — Tastes and peculiarities of Lamb — Swift — 
Pope — ^Johnson — Bjrron — Shelley — Newton. 



XXXL— Food Adulteration . . . 352 

Fastidious ignorance — Eighteenth-century adulteration — 
Town V. country supplies — The " tea-leafer." 

Modern adulteration — ^And its handmaiden, Chemical 
Science. 

\ 

XXXII. — Hospitality .... 356 

. Sacredness of hospitality — Stealing for a gue^'s support — 
Reciprocal hospitality — Tessera hospitalis of the Latins — 
Caligula's outrage on hospitality — Unsocial eating con- 
ventions. 

The entertainment — Consulting diverse tastes — The 
company — Select and not too numerous — Dinner dress — 
Precedence — " The chief seats " — Roman lectin tticliniarius 
— Rule of precedence for Khans and Highland chiefs — A 
princely dismissal of guests. 

Medieval salt-vat — Above and below the salt. 



CONTENTS 19 

PAGE 

" Fun " and diversions at dinner — Processions — Tourna- 
ments — Souvenir gifts — Jocular dishes — Custard baths for 
jesters — ^A pretty Italian conceit. 

English hospitality discredited in eighteenth century — 
How to receive unwelcome guests — Overstrained polite- 
ness of vulgar hosts. 



XXXIII. — Aristology .... 372 

/ Art of dining — The accomplished host — Table talk — 
The diner-out — ^The intellectual feast. 

Rationale of the menu — The order of the dishes — Super- 
numerary courses — The appropriate wines. 

The bon vivant of the old school — His prodigality in 
wines — The coffee and tobacco — The dinner of parade. 



XXXIV. — The Esthetics of the Dinner- V 

TABLE ..... 379 

Eighteenth-century progress — ^Advent of earthenware and 
china — The serviette. 

Adornment a zest to^appetite — Sumptuous table appoint- 
ments — Ornate Italian and English examples. 

Exquisite Majolica services — Old Venetian table glass. 

Epergnes — ^Table-lamps — ^Table-cloths. 

Dining-table — Dining-chairs. 



XXXV. — ^At the Festive Board . . .386 

Grace at meat — Illustrative anecdotes. 

The serving of the meal — Serving as the handmaiden of 
cookery — Its foresight, calculation, and intricacy. 

Tips and vails — A pernicious system. 

The carving — A famous official carver — The " scalco " — 
The amateur carver — His proficiency — Difficult carcass 
joints. 

Conversation — The punster at table — Old custom of 
jovial songs. 

Toast masters — Elaborate formula at London banquets — 
Anecdotes of toast-drinking. 



20 CONTENTS 



XXXVI.— Feasts, Historic or Notable . . 395 

Balshazzar's feast— Festivity and Divine visitations- 
Antony and Cleopatra's feasting— Sumptuous and magni- 
ficent profusion. 

A gorgeous French betrothal banquet — ^A brilliant 
company of courtiers — Twelve tables and seven elaborate 
services on 140 " goodly dishes of silver." 

English royal banquets — Ehzabeth's entertainment at 
Kenilworth (1573)— Westminster Hall and Coronation 
banquets — Duke of Wellington takes part in last ceremonial 
of the King's Champion (1821). 

Civic banquets at Guildhall— Sumptuary lavi^s v. luxury 
and gluttony — An episcopal enthronisation — "Warners" 
and " subtelties "at a Lenten feast— Wax Chandlers 
Company's frugal feast — A royal marriage feast (1612) — 
Last City feast of Charles L— Costly banquet to George IIL 
— Guildhall Chapel services to deprecate " indigestions and 
all plethoric evils." 

Legal feasting at Inns of Court—" Eating then- terms "— 
Profuse displays of former times. 

Public banquets — ^The Anti-benediction Dinner (1814) 
-Tory epicures— Whig gluttons— Colchester's Oyster 
Feast — Farnham Venison Dinner. 



XXXVII. — Good Cheer in Fiction . . 407 

Gargantua — 17,913 cows to supply a babe with milk — 
A giant's appetite and daily fare. 

Barmecide's feast of illusory fare — ^The first feast of the 
faithful in Paradise — A Spanish nuptial feast. 

Scottish feudal feasting — Festive allusions in " Waverley " 
— Nodes Ambrosiance — A deluge of haggis. 

The rude plenty of Arthurian legend — The Dickensian 
conception of good cheer — Bob Cratchit's goose — Little 
Copperfield's conciUation of the greedy waiter. 



INDEX 417 



Illustrations 



FRONTISPIECE 

The Election Entertainment. By William Hogarth 

FACING PAGE 

"Meat" (In Ecclesiological Symbolism) . . .24 



The Pledge Cup (In Assyrian Sculpture) . 

The Marriage at Cana of Galilee. By Ludger 
torn Ring the Younger 



A Roman Banquet : A Gladiatorial Fight Con 

STITUTING the ENTERTAINMENT 

Anglo-Saxon Dinner Party at a Round Table 

Anglo-Saxon Dinner Party at a Long Table . 

Roasting (Middle Ages) 

DisHiNG-up (Middle Ages) 

The Kitchen. By David Teniers the Younger . 

Feast Given by Duke of Alva in Honour of the 
Birth of the Prince of Asturias, Paris, 1707 



24 

44 

64 
79 
79 
90 
90 
93 

130 



"Prize Beef" (Early 19TH Century Cartoon on 
the New and Improved Methods of Cattle- 
feeding) 179 

Bakers at Work (i6th Century) 189 

21 



22 ILLUSTRATIONS 

FACING PAGE 

The Village Feast (German, i6th Century) . • 204 
The Ladies' Banquet (French, 17TH Century). • 224 
The Miracle of the Sieve. By Mostaert . . - 234 

(SHOWING A FINELY EQUIPPED i6TH CENTURY KITCHEN) 

The Gourmand's Library (French, Early 19TH 
Century) 264 

The Gourmand's Dream 276 

" Meats " 286 

"Drinks" 286 

Crypt, Guildhall, Preparing for a Banquet . . 312 

Eighteenth Century English Kitchen . . "369 

" A Domestic Scene " (English, 1823) . . . 379 

"A Little Supper" (French, iSth Century) . . 384 

Coronation Feast of James II 401 



(The Author and Publisher are especially indebted to Mr. 
Frank Schloesser, the well-known authority on gastronomy, 
for his kindness in lending a number of books with a view to 
the illustration of this work.) 



GOOD CHEER 



"THE SACRED RAGE OF HUNGER" 

The food impulse — The vice of gluttony — Post-prandial benevolence 
— Discovery of fire leads to the art of cookery — The food of 
primeval man — Varied with his situation^— Successive stages of 
culinary development — Geologic " kitchen middens " — Fewness 
of primeval man's meals. 

Who shall be able to overrate the importance of 
eating? It is certain that when man was first created 
— or evolved — the conduct of the human race was 
dominated by the food impulse. It is an impulse 
which takes precedence of the sex impulse and all 
others. Homer makes allusion to " the sacred rage 
of hunger." 

Man has to eat to live ; and to this primary con- 
dition of life he raises no particular objection. Man, 
indeed, eats and drinks with gusto — and not tmfre- 
quently, let it be confessed, without actual necessity. 

" Meat," in ecclesiological symbolism, is the bait 
with vyhich the spirit of evil tempts self-indulgent 
humanity. " The way to a man's heart is through 
his belly." 

" There does not, at this blessed moment, breathe 
on the earth's surface a human being that willna 
prefer eating and dtinking to all ither pleasure o' 

28 



24 GOOD CHEER 

body or soul," was the honest opinion of the typical 
northern " shepherd," dtelivered in the fulness of his 
content, when contemplating an ample supper -table 
laden with a comfortable array of substantial! viands ; 
though at the same time he does not hesitate to 
denounce in good set terms " the awful and 
fearsome vice o' gluttony," which apparently in- 
harmonious sentiments are surely not irreconcilable. 
Dr. Johnson bluntly said, " He who does not mind 
his belly will not mind anything." 
, Crapula quam gladius is an old saying which 

'''imports that the sword slays its thousands, and the 
table knife its tens of thousands. 

By whomsoever a people is fed (saith the philo- 
sopher) to him their allegiance is due. Thus this 
teacher lays it down that the legitimate source of 
political authority is to be traced to the capacity 
for satisfying the appetites of the community. Ergo, 
he who can auglnent the sum of human enjoyments 
by the increase of gustatory delights ought to be 
emperor. 

A good ineal soothes the soul as it regenerates the 
body. From the abundance of it flows a b«iign 
benevolence. A good and copious dinner begets a 
mellowing influence ; it permeates the bosom with a 
bland philanthropy of sentiment, embracive of all 
classes, sects, and races of men. From the earliest 
times— from Assyrian days at least — the pledge cup 
has been the accompaniment of the banquet. 
Beneficence is largely a post -prandial effort. 
/ To one who has dined wisely and well the world 

/ presents itself in its most roseate hue. It is, meta- 
phorically speaking, in this aspect the reader is 
invited to roam pleasantly through these pages, to 
glimpse at man in this, his genial, his most expansive, 
mood. 

Before man had learned to dine he gorged him- 




"meat" (in ecclesiological symbolism). 

From an old MS. 




THE PLEDGE CUP. 
From an Assyrian sculpture. 



To face p. 24. 



"THE SACRED RAGE OF HUNGER" 25 

self like the brute beast of the field ; to dine was 
the first step on the highway towards civilisation. 
The prirneval savage cut his warmi slice from the 
haunches of the living' animal, and swallowed it reek- 
ing from' the kitchen of Nature ; his discovery, ofy, 
fire and the art of cooking dates and authenticates the 
earliest stage in the refinement of his race. When 
man became a cooking animal he raised a new dis- 
tinction which marked him off from all the rest of 
the animal creation. 

Let us consider the progressive stages of this evolu- 
tion. When the human animal was first placed on 
the earth, wild and naked, his most pressing wants 
were those associated with his body — shelter from 
the weather, and food to eat. Till he had acquired - 
the ability to fashion weapons for the hunt his food 
consisted of the wild fruits and berries he found at 
hand ; the streams of fresh water running down 
the hillside provided him with drink. He might 
have taken and eaten of the fish that glided past, 
but of the deer and other creatures fleeter than him- 
self he could make no meal till he had devised the 
wherewithal to take them. Nor of cooked food could 
he enjoy the pleasure till a knowledge of fire, or how 
to obtain it, had been acquired. 

In the earliest ages of the world the food of man 
varied with the climate in which he found himJself, 
the natural productions of each zone being always 
the most suitable. Between the tropics a purely 
vegetarian diet of fruits, seeds, and roots amply 
sufficed. 

It was in the temperate and cold regions that 
man developed his taste for flesh food ; in the former 
he could indulge himself with a mixed diet of flesh 
Mid vegetables ; in the latter he had to put up with 
animal food alone. 

Petavius and L'e Clerk, both eminent theologians. 



26 GOOD CHEER 

though not of the same school, have asserted that the 
first man was created in the autumn, when all the 
fruits were ripe, so that there was no immediate 
necessity for Mother Eve to commence culinary 
operations until some knowledge had been acquired 
of the nature and capabilities of earth's multifarious 
productions. 

Anterior to man's use of flesh food came, it is 
reasonable to suppose, his discovery of fire ; for 
not being naturally a carnivorous animal, man cooked 
his food to make it more palatable and more diges- 
tible. Man is the only animal that cooks its food. 

In " Signor Resartus " Carlyle challenges the 
French definition of man as a " cooking animal," 
though he produces but few examples to prove the 
contrary. He asks :■ — 

" Can a Tartar be said to cook, when he only readies his steak by 
riding on it ? Again, what cooking does the Greenlander use, beyond 
stowing up his whale-blubber, as a marmot, in the like case, might 
do ? Or how would Monsieur Ude prosper among those Orinoco 
Indians who, according to Humboldt, lodge in crow-nests on the 
branches of trees ; and for half a year have no victuals but pipe-clay 
the whole country being under water ? " 

At first men ate flesh raw, as some primitive tribes 
do now, but afterwards theiy learnt to cook it bjy 
simply putting the meat directly into the fire. Later 
they learnt to dig a hole and line it with the hard 
hide of the slain animal, fill it with water, put 
the meat in, and then make stones fiercely hot, 
dropping them in, until the water was hot enough, 
and the meat cooked. 

• A little later on an advance in the art of cooking 
was made by learning how to fashion cooking vessels 
of clay — by the discovery of the art of pottery. When 
they had learnt to make nets of flax, which they 
floated with buoys of bark, and sank with stone 
weights, fish was added to man's dietary. These 



"THE SACRED RAGE OF HUNGER" 27 

in all probability were th© successive stagies in primi- 
tive man's culinary, development. 

Any attempt to trace the history of the Ars 
coquinaria throughout the ages from the earliest times 
to the present, must result in a work that will remain 
incomplete. To trace the several gradations of re- 
finement which have occurred in the science of eat- 
ing in our own country, from the humble tables 
of our Celtic or Teutonic ancestors to the more 
studied meals of to-day, would be no small task. 
But to mark the various and contradictory alterations 
which have taken place in the art since the period 
when the abstemious patriarch regaled himself with 
a mbrsel of bread, only to the times when the ifemotest 
parts of the earth were visited, and the air and 
the ocean were ransacked in order to furnish the 
complicated delicacies of a Roman supper — only so 
much would be too stupendous an undertaking even 
to contemplate. 

Where the dwellings of primitive man have been 
traced on the shores of Scotland, Denmark, and else- 
where, enormous heaps, which have bteen called 
" kitchen middtens," have been scientifically investi- v 
gate^. These have been proved to be the feeding- 
places of the people who lived there in bygone ages ; 
they are made up of piles of shells, largely those of 
the oyster, mussel, periwinkle, and similar creatures 
on which they fed. With these remains have been 
found the bones of stags and other animals, and also 
of birds, as well as the flint knives used in killin,g 
and preparing the creatures. 

These evidences that man cooked and ate animal , 
food date back fifteen thousand years. In the South 
of France, for instance, are remains of the older 
Stone Age which show conclusively that primeval 
man was a mighty hunter, habitually given to feast 
himself most bountifully, on the fruits of the chase. 



28 GOOD CHEER 

The refuse-heaps upon which he cast the bones of 
his victims now form immense deposits ; all these 
bones are split, indicating: that he found a tasty 
as well as a highly nourishing food in the marrow ; 
and these split bones are invariably intermixed with 
layers of charcoal, and stones bearing the marks of 
fire. The animals which furnished forth his ban- 
quets included the reindeer, the bison, the horse, and 
other wild animals that apparently roamed about in 
vast herds ; and judging by the bone deposits, these 
cave-dwellers could have suffered from no shortness 
of the food supply — in one bed have been found 
the remains of not less than forty thousand horses. 
What visions are here presented of prehistoric feast- 
ingB, of ravenous hunters lighting their fires at the 
close of the hunt, and spending the declining hours 
of the day in noisy revellings within the rocky re- 
cesses of the forest primeval. 

It may be presumed that, as a general rule, the 
hunting of food provides but precarious feeding. The 
savage hunter, like the beast of prey, must have a 
stomach that adjusts itself to these conditions — ^to 
voracious gorging in times of plenty, to the suste- 
nance of prolonged fastings when the hunt proves 
fruitless. 

It is by no means impossible that the primitive 
savage fed but once a day. This practice prevailed 
even among' civilised people within the historic period. 
In the war of Xerxes against Greece it was pleasantly 
said of the Abderites, who were burdened with pro- 
viding for the king's table, that they ought to thank 
the g'ods for not inclining Xerxes to eat twice a 
day. Plato held the Sicilians to be gluttons for 
having two meals every day. Even in medieval 
times the bulk of the English people seldom exceeded 
two meals a day. Many feeding times per diem are 
unhygienic and uxmecessary. 



"THE SACRED RAGE OF HUNGER" 29 

Hunger is never so intense as thirst ; and as a 
matter of ordinary experience, one has felt hunger 
less frequently than thirst. Hunger, too, is satisfied 
sooner than thirst. The famishing man dreams of 
eating, though his visionary feasts are generally of 
the Barmecidean and unsatisfying type. The hunger 
of the primeval savage no doubt approximated more 
nearly to the ravening hunger of the brute beast. 
As to the part played by wom'an in the social axud 
domestic economy of that undeveloped age, let 3. 
woman speak ; as thus, Olive Schreiner, in " Woman 
and Labour " : — 

\ /"When first man wandered the naked, newly-erect savage, hunted 
and fought while we wandered with him ; each step of his was ours. 
Within our bodies we bore the race, on our shoulders we carried it ; 
we sought the roots and plants for its food ; and when man's barbed 
arrow or hook brought the game, our hands dressed it. Side by side, 
the savage man and the savage woman, we wandered free together 
and laboured free together. And we were contented ! " 



II 

CULINARY ART THE MAINSPRING OF CIVILISATION 

Earliest civilisation — The Golden Age — Man's non-flesh diet — The 
ambrosia and nectar of the gods — P3rthagorean vegetarianism — 
Primitive barbarism — Anthropophaginians — The flesh of sacri- 
ficed animals first eaten — Charles Lamb's droll dissertation on 
"the origin of roast pig" — The discovery of salt — The con- 
dimenting art — Progress of culinary art — ^The kitchen becomes 
the focus of human society. 

But let us for a time leave the hard facts of man's 
existence, as they are revealed to us by the investiga- 
tions of modern science, and rove over the pleasanter 
fields of classic fable which has pretended, even from 
the infancy of the world, to account for man's gradual 
emergence into the light of civilisation. To the 
general reader the classic era will doubtless be 
found more alluring than the geologic age. And we 
warrant 

"You shall have better cheer 
Ere you depart, and thanks to stay and eat it," 

as the great dramatist puts it. 

Hesiod, the poet of peace and agriculture, as 
opposed to Homer, the poet of war and the heroic 
virtues, writing in the eighth century B.C., regarded 
the diet of man as mainly or entirely dependent on 

30 



CULINARY ART 31 

agriculture, and says that in the Golden Age man 

was 

" Pleased with earth's unbought feasts ; all ills removed, 
Wealthy in flocks, and the Blest beloved, 
Death, as a slumber, pressed their eyelids down. 
All Nature's common blessings were their own. 
The life-bestovnng tilth its fruitage bore, 
A full, spontaneous, and ungrudging store." 

Here, as in the Jewish theology, according to the 
Book of Genesis, there is the apparent contradiction 
of the co-existence of " flocks and herds " vnth a 
preval«ice of a non -flesh diet. 

The second race of man, in the Silver Age, were 
also supposed to have been equally guiltless of blood- 
shed in the preparation of food. The ancient poets 
agreed, when painting the fabled past, in presenting 
the fictitious age of innocence in. this particular light. 

It was reserved for the third or Brazen Age to in- 
augurate a flesh diet. 

"Strong with the ashen spear, and fierce and bold, 
Their thoughts were bent on violence alone, 
The deed of battle and the dying groan. 
Bloody their feasts, with wheaten food unblest." 

As to the " immortals inhabiting the Olympian 
mansions," according to Hesiod and the poets who 
followed him, they fed ever on the pure and blood- 
less food of ambrosia, and drank only of nectar, a 
distillation of refined dew. 

It has long been contended that antediluvian man 
was strictly, vegetarian. Similarly, the Pythagorean 
system of ancient Greece is said to have forbidden \.i# 
indulgence in all animal food. The poet of modern 
vegetarianism tells us that Pythagoras borrowed his 
dietary principles from the Hindoos. 

" He first the taste of flesh from tables drove 
And argued well, if arguments could move : 
O mortals ! from your fellows' blood abstain 
Nor taint your bodies with a food profane." 



32 GOOD CHEER 

As Pythagoras left nothing whatever of his philo- 
sophy in writing, his exact views on the matter of 
diet cannot be known ; but it is quite certain that 
temperance in every form was strictly enjoined. He 
died 500 B.C. 

Here we step outside the pale of ancient civilisa- 
tion, and attempt to explore the trackless wilderness 
of its contemporary barbarism. 

It was to the art of cookery, contends our argu- 
mentative poet, that the successive stages of civilisa- 
tion were directly due. We call it an art, yet, " a 
burning question " as cooking must always be, we 
are never quite sure whether it should be enrolled 
as a science or as a fine art. 

" To cookery we owe well-ordered States 
Assembling men in dear society." 

X-et us see how he reasons it all out. 

" The art of cookery drew us gently forth 
From that ferocious life when, void of faith. 
The Anthropophaginian ate his brother." 

This part of the poet's reasoning is not very con- 
vincing if, as is generally reported by travellers, 
the South Sea Islander still roasts his " long pig," 
if, as the witty Sydney Smith put it, no self-respecting 
cannibal chief out there is ever without " cold mis- 
sionary on his sideboard." 

But to resume the quotation : — 

" Wild was the earth, man feasting upon man, 
When one of nobler sense and milder heart. 
First sacrificed an animal ; the flesh 
Was sweet " 

Quite so. But this part of the argument — the 
allurement — is more deliciously put before us by 
Charles Lamb, in his humorous " Dissertation 



THE MAINSPRING OF CIVILISATION 33 

on Roast Pig," though in the case he quotes the 
sacrifice of thte animal was accidental and involun- 
tary. Still, 'as against this dissemblance, it will be 
seen that the dissertation demonstrates that the art 
of cookery was an indirect and somewhat belaited 
outcome of the discovery of fire. 

" Mankind, says a Chinese manuscript, for the first seventy thousand 
ages ate their meat raw, clawing or biting it from the living anirdal 
just as they do in Abyssinia to this day. This period is not obscurely 
hinted at by their great Confucius in the second chapter of his 
Mundane Mutations,' where he designates a kind of golden age by 
the term Cho-fang, literally the Cooks' Holiday. The manuscript 
goes on to say, that the art of roasting, or rather broiling (which I 
take to be the elder brother) was accidentally discovered in the 
manner following. The swineherd Ho-ti, having gone out info the 
woods one morning, as his manner was, to collect mast for his hogs, 
left his cottage in the care of his eldest son. Bo-bo, a great lubberly 
boy, who being fond of playing with fire, as youngkers of his age 
commonly are, let some sparks escape into a bundle of straw, which 
kindling quickly, spread the conflagration over every part of their 
poor mansion, till it was reduced to ashes. Together with the 
cottage (a sorry antediluvian make-shift of a building, you may 
think it) what was of much more importance, a fine litter of new- 
farrowed pigs, no less than nine in number, perished. China pigs 
have been esteemed a luxury all over the East, from the remotest 
periods that we read of. Bo-bo was in the utmost consternation, as 
you may think, not so much for the sake of the tenement, which his, 
father and he could easily build up again with a few dry branches,, 
and the labour of an hour or two, at any time, as for the loss of the; 
pigs. While he was thinking what he should say to his father, andi 
wringing his hands over the smoking remnants of one of thoses 
untimely sufferers, an odour assailed his nostrils, unlike any scent 
which he had before experienced. What could it proceed from ? 
not from the burnt cottage — he had smelt that smell before — indeed 
this was by no means the first accident of the kind which had 
occurred through the negligence of this unlucky young fire-brand. 
Much less did it resemble that of any known herb, weed, or flower. 
A premonitory moistening at the same time overflowed his nether 
lip. He knew not what to think. He next stooped down to feel the 
pig, if there were any signs of life in it. He burnt his fingers, and 
to cool them he applied them in his booby fashion to his mouth. 
Some of the crumbs of the scorched skin had come away with his 

3 



34 GOOD CHEER 

fingers, and for the first time in his life (in the world's life indeed, 
for before him no man had known it) he tasted — crackling. Again 
he felt and fumbled at the pig. It did not burn him so much now 
still he licked his fingers from a sort of habit. The truth at length 
broke into his slow understanding that it was the pig that smelt so, 
and the pig that tasted so delicious ; and surrendering himself up to 
the new-born pleasure, he fell to tearing up whole handfuls of the 
scorched skin with the flesh next it, and was cramming it down his 
throat in his beastly fashion, when his sire entered amid the smoking 
rafters, armed with retributory cudgel, and finding how a£Fairs stood, 
began to rain blows upon the young rogue's shoulders, as thick as 
hail-stones, which Bo-bo heeded not any more than if they had been 
flies. The tickling pleasure, which he experienced in his lower 
regions, had rendered him quite callous to any inconveniences he 
might feel in those remote quarters. His father might lay on, but 
he could not beat him from his pig, till he had fairly made an 
end of it." 

And thus the gentle Elia rambles on, revelling 
in every one of the details of his burlesque genesis of 
roast pig ; telling us, with inimitable drollery, how 
the people took to firing their homes to indulge 
themselves in the delights of this delicacy ; till some 
philosopher discovered that the flesh of swine " might 
be cooked {burnt they called it) without the necessity 
of consuming a whole house to dress it. Then first 
began the rude form of a gridiron. Roasting by 
the string or spit came a century or two later." Of 
the subject of his pretended rhapsodies, the humorist 
declares that in the whole mundus edibilis there is 
nothing to equal roast sucking-pig. 

" There is no flavour comparable, I will contend, to that of the 
crisp, tawny, well-watched, not over-roasted crackling, as it is well 
called — the very teeth are invited to their share of the pleasure at 
this banquet in overcoming the coy, brittle resistance— with the 
adhesive oleaginous— O, call it not fat ! but an undefinable sweetness 
growing up to it— the tender blossoming of fat— the cream and quint- 
essence of the child-pig's yet pure food— the lean, no lean, but a 
kind of animal manna— or rather, fat and lean (if it must be so) so 
blended and running into each other, that both together make but 
one ambrosian result." 



THE MAINSPRING OF CIVILISATION 35 

Ajid here, reluctantly, we leave our delightful 
ess^ist, to resume the thread of our main discourse. 
J>The next stage of development in the culinary 
art was the discovery of salt (which the Greeks con- 
secrated to the gods), and other condiments — any- 
thing with which man could add a piquancy to his 
cooked food, particularly dishes of sodden meat. 

" The precious salt, that gold of cookery ! 
For when its particles the palate thrill'd 
The source of seasonings, charm of cookery ! came." 

Though the Numidians and a few other nations 
have been unacquainted with salt, it has generally 
been so highly prized as to form a suitable commo- 
dity for taxation — there was the infamous Gabelle 
of France, to wit. It was undoubtedly a profound 
knowledge of the condimenting art that in due time 
produced the arch-cook. 

" At length a miracle not yet performed — 
They minced the meat which, roll'd in herbage soft. 
Nor meat nor herbage seemed, but to the eye 
And to the taste, the counterfeited dish, 
Mimicked some curious fish," 

Thus it was that human invention, in culinary, 
matters as in all other branches of knowledge, gradu- 
ally progressed from the simple to the complex — 
dare we say, from the real to the "mock"? from 
the delicacy to the cheapened substitute? 

" Invention rare ! 
Then every dish was seasoned more and more, 
Salted, or sour, or sweet, and mingled oft 
Oatmeal and honey." 

But mark to what artificiality of life all this culinary 



36 GOOD CHEER 

progress tended, even in the earliest epoch of human 
civilisation. 

" To enjoy the meal 
Men congregated in the populous towns, 
And cities flourished, which we cooks adorned 
With all the pleasures of domestic life." 

And now the secret of the Tower of Babel is out I 
Communities began, saith the wisdom of a French 
proverb, by establishing their kitchen. 



Ill 

THE DIETARY OF THE SCRIPTURES 

Antediluvian vegetarianism — Flesh food granted — Blood prohibited 
— Simplicity of Hebrew fare — " The flesh-pots of Egypt " — 
Miracle of the quails — Eastern acridopophaginians — Manna, 
" the bread of heaven " — Bread and water — Loaves and fishes 
— Hebrew hospitality — "The fatted calf" — Rabbinical legend 
of the fateful "mess of pottage" — "Savoury meat" — "Butter 
in a lordly dish" — "Milk and honey" — Parched corn — Clean 
and unclean animals — Birds — And fishes — The paschal lamb^ 
No vegetarian exclusiveness. 

Biblical students are not quite certain whether the 
antediluvians were vegetarians, although the weight 
of opinion leans to that view. One contention is that, 
the Flood having destroyed the green herb, a flesh 
food was granted to Noah and his family. When 
Noah came forth from the ark the Lord, among other 
admonitions, said, " Every moving thing that liveth 
shall be meat for you ; even as the green herb 
have I given you all things." While some contend 
that animal food had never before been eaten by 
man, others are of opinion that from the first institu- 
tion of sacrifices, a portion of the animals so offered 
to God were eaten by the offerer, and that this parti- 
cipation in the offerings formed an integral part of 
the sacrificial rite ; and that the use of animal food 
had, until this period, been restricted to the flesh of 
sacrificed victims. 

37 



38 GOOD CHEER 

The law of Moses commanded the Jews to mix 
salt with everything offered in sacrifice ; salt, as the 
preservative of animal substances from decay, was 
the emblem of purity, perfection, and perpetuity ; 
it was eaten by them at every meal as the symbol of 
friendship. 

- The Noachian admonition proceeded to prohibit 
the eating of blood. " But flesh with the hfe thereof, 
which is the blood thereof, shall ye not eat." This 
prohibition is consistently maintained throughout the 
Old Testament; in Leviticus xvii. lo and ii two 
reasons are assigned — first, because it is the life 
of the animal ; secondly, because it is set apart for 
making atonement. 

There were other religious reasons which need 
not be entered into here : it will suffice if it be noted 
that the Christian brethren were distinctly told to 
abstain from things offered to idols, from things 
strangled, and from blood (Acts xv. 20) — an apostolic 
injunction which was at once a warning against 
certain heathen practices at religious feasts and a 
concession to the feelings of Jewish converts. 

The food of the Hebrews was generally of the 
simplest kind, as bread, milk, rice, honey, and vege- 
tables. God had given them every " green herb for 
food," but animal food seems to have been more or 
less reserved for use at the appointed festivals. The 
food in which they indulged while they were in the 
land of Egypt, " in the house of bondage," is men- 
tioned in Numbers xi. 5 : " We remember the fish 
which we did eat in Egypt freely ; the cucumbers, 
and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and 
the gar lick." 

It is generally believed that the flesh for which the 
Israelites murmured in the Wilderness was the 
" flesh " of the fish of the land of Egypt, of which 
there was always an abundant supply — hence the 



THE DIETARY OF THE SCRIPTURES 39 

great distress of the people when the waters of the 
river were turned into blood so that the fish died — 
and which was a diet so peculiarly delicious that 
it can well be imagined how wanderers through an 
arid country would naturally long for it when com- 
pelled to eat the unpalatable food of a desert region 
over a long period, and that without the least 
variation. 

iWhen they murmured for the " flesh-pots of 
Egypt " (Exodus xvi. 3) the Lord sent them Quails 
on two occasions (Numbers xi. 32). Both occasions 
were the spring of the year, when these birds pass 
along the coasts of the Red Sea and the Mediter- 
ranean on their way from Asia to Europe in vast 
numbers ; the miracle consisted in the fact that they 
were driven by a great wind in sufificient quantities 
to furnish food for a million of persons for more 
than a month. 

Some commentators have endeavoured to prove 
that a species of locust should be understood for 
the word which has been translated " quail." 
Locusts are commonly eaten in Palestine and the 
neighbouring countries — did not the food of John the "^ 
Baptist consist of " locusts and wild honey "? — some 
of the minor nations there have been described as 
" Acridopophagi," or eaters of locusts, that insect 
forming the principal article of their diet. 

The locusts mentioned in the New Testament were 
not the bean-pods of the locust-tree, an impression 
which is sometimes conveyed ; for the word trans- 
lated is acrides — the. Greek name of the insatiable 
insects which periodically devastate the vegetation 
of some parts of the world. These insects are eaten 
by the Bedouins, who string them together and eat 
them on their journeys with unleavened cake. The 
Bushmen esteem them a luxury, and Dr. Livingstone 
thought them superior to shrimps. In the East honey 



40 GOOD CHEER 

is always eaten with them, as a sweeit condiment which 
renders them more digestible. They were not for- 
bidden to the Jews. 

What was the precise nature of the Manna, with 
which the Israelites were fed during their wander- 
ings, cannot be said. It is described as white as 
hoar-frost, round, and of the bigness of coriander- 
seed ; it fell every morning upon the dew, and when 
the latter evaporated under the heat of the sun, the 
Manna appeared alone, lying upon the rocks or 
the sand. It was certainly nothing common to 
the ^Wilderness, and must be accepted as something 
altogether miraculous. Manna has been poetically 
described as " angels' food," as " the bread of 
heaven " ; the author of the Book of Wisdom 
(xvi. 20, 21) says it so accommodated itself to one's 
taste that it proved palatable and pleasing to all. 
While the quails were divinely provided fooc a month 
or so, the manna served as a food, sustaining and 
all-sufficient, for the whole period of the forty years' 
wanderings. 

As the Jews of old chiefly satisfied their hunger 
with bread — wheaten for choice — and quenched their 
thirst with water, bread and water are commonly 
spoken of in the Scripture as competent for the 
sustenance of man. " Loaves and fishes " made not 
only a goodly but a desirable meal. 

Though the dietary of the heroes of the Bible was 
exceedingly plain, the Jews were given to the practice 
of hospitality ; it was, and is, a custom of the East 
to " love hospitality." \ 

When the Hebrews of old wished to evince hospi- 
tality, they boiled or roasted the flesh of sheep, or 
fatted cattle, to place before their guests. Thus 
Abraham proposed to entertain the three angels who 
visited him with " a calf tender and good," and cakes 
of unleavened bread made upon the hearth, while the 



THE DIETARY OF THE SCRIPTURES 41 

feast to celebrate the return of the Prodigal Son 
was primarily to include " the fatted calf." 

The dish which was presented by Abraham to 
the angels on the plains of Mamre is identical with 
that which to this day, is presented by the Arabs of 
Morocco to their more distinguished guests — a 
shoulder of veal well roasted, and covered with butter 
and milk. 

How plain was the food of the patriarchs appears 
from the pottage of lentils and bread which Jacob 
had prepared, and which Esau so coveted that he 
sold his birthright for it. Tradition hath it that 
the leahied Rabbi El Bassam, the celebrated Jewish 
commentator on the Talmud, spent fifteen years in 
vainly trying to discover the name of the cook who 
prepared this wonderful pottage for which the reck- 
less and impatient Esau sold all his rights of primo- 
geniture. 

Thie rabbinical story bearing upon the bartering 
away of Esau's birthright is to this effect : And it 
came to pass that Esau went hunting in the field upon 
a certain day when Nimrod, King of Babel, was also 
engaged in the same pursuit. A rivalry existed 
between these two mighty hunters which amounted 
to a deadly jealousy ; and Esau happening upon 
Nimrod when all but two of his attendants had left 
him^ he concealed himself. WJien presently Nimrod 
passed his hiding-place, Esau pointed his arrow, 
pulled his bow, and shot his rival through the heart. 
Then rushing forth from' his concealment, Esau 
engaged in a deadly struggle with the two attendants, 
overcame them, and killed them both. Stripping 
from Nimrod's shoulders the wonderful coat which 
God had made for Adam, Esau hastened home, reach- 
ing his father's dwelling-place weary, hungry, and 
faint. It was then Esau said to Jacob, " Give me of 
that red pottage, for I am faint." And Jacob said. 



42 GOOD CHEER 

" Sell me this day thy birthright." And Esau said 
in his heart, " They will surely avenge upon me the 
death of Nimrod " ; therefore he answered, " Behold 
I am going to die ; what can the birthright profit 
me? " So Jacob bought from Esau the birthright, 
and also his right of burial in the cave of Machpelah, 
and after the bargain was concluded gave his brother 
the food he asked for. 

Pottage made from the red lentils is exceedingly 
savoury, and while cooking, diffuses far and wide an 
odour extremely grateful to a hungry man. It was, 
therefore, no slight temptation to Esau, returned 
weary and famished from an unsuccessful hunt in that 
burning climate. Modern hunters, indeed, have been 
known to return so utterly spent as, like him, to 
believe themselves dying. 

Why Jacob selected lentils for his meal that day 
is the subject of further exposition. The Rabbis 
say that lentils is the food partaken of during the days 
of their mourning, by persons who have suffered a 
family bereavement ; a symbolic significance is 
recognised in the lentil's being shaped round, like a 
wheel, inasmuch as it affords a source of consolation 
to the mourners to know that they do not suffer alone, 
death rolling round to all in turn, and none being 
able to escape it. That day the death of the patriarch 
Abraham had occurred, infer the Rabbis, and it was 
on this account Jacob had " sod pottage of lentils," 
the customary meal for family mourners. 

The " savoury meat " which was so much to the 
liking of blind old Isaac could be prepared equally 
well from either hunted venison or from " the kids 
of the goats," as would appear from the text of 
Genesis xxvii. 

It is interesting to note that the injunction, " Thou 
shalt not seethe a kid in his mother's milk " appears 
not less than three times in the Pentateuch — whether 



THE DIETARY OF THE SCRIPTURES 43 

as a precept of humanity, or as forbidding the imita- 
tion of some heathen custom, or whether to be inter- 
preted as prohibiting the use of butter in cooking, has 
never been finally and satisfactorily settled. The 
butter mentioned in the ^ong of Deborah as being 
brought forth " in a lordly dish " was simply curdled 
milk. 

Butter is mentioned a number of times in the 
Scriptures, and frequently along with honey. The N 
latter held a prominent place among the delicacies of 
an Eastern meal — was not the fertility of the land of 
Canaan conveyed in the poetic description of it 
as "a land flowing with milk and hon,ey "? The 
bread mentioned in the Bible might be of wheat 
or barley, or even of lentils or beans. It was made 
into very small loaves, three of which would be re- 
quired to make the meal of an ordinary adult person. 
Parched com, also, was and is a common article of 
food in those Eastern countries. As we may infer 
from the Book of Ruth, harvest is the time of parched 
com. It is prepared by plucking a quantity of the 
best ears with the stalks attached, not too ripe, and 
tying them into small parcels. A blazing fire is then 
kindled with dry grass and thorn bushes, and the 
corn heads are held in it until the chaff is mostly 
burnt off. The grain is then sufficiently roasted to 
be eaten, and it has that agreeable carbonised flavour 
which the jaded appetite of the city man demands 
when he orders a " grill." 

By Levitical law all animals were divided into two „ 
classes, the clean and the unclean — those which might 
be eaten as food and offered as sacrifices, and those 
which were prohibited. This division is believed 
to have existed before the law of Moses, and, so far 
as they related to sacrifice, even before the Flood. 
The reason assigned for this distinction is that 
Jehovah wished to teach His people that to be holy 



44 GOOD CHEER 

they must be separate from the impure heathen around 
them' ; a lesson, say the bibliologists, borne out by 
the explanation which Peter received in his vision 
at Joppa, when he was plainly taught that the dis- 
tinction between Jew and Gentile was now at an end. 
/ All animals that have not cloven hoofs, and do not 
^chew the cud, were accounted unclean, among them 
being the hare and the hog. X^^ith birds these 
characteristics failed to afford a guide, nor could the 
Hebrew legislator fix on any distinctive feature to 
mark out the lawful from the unlawful, and so lists 
of exceptions had to be drawn up without any word 
concerning those that were allowed. 

Birds of prey were generally prohibited, while 
those which eat vegetables were admitted. Among 
the unclean birds were also the moorhen, swan, 
bittern, heron, curlew, and lapwing (Deuteronomy 
xiv. 12-18). 

Of fish, those were accounted clean, whether of 
fresh water or of the sea, which possessed both fins 
>■' and scales (Leviticus xi.). The oyster, it is interest* 
ing to note, is not eaten by the orthodox Jew because 
it " creeps " — at least, this was the ruling of no less 
authorities than Dean Stanley and Frank Buckland. 

Considerations of space forbid any detailed allusi(Hi 
to the numerous Levitical laws relating to food and 
the preparation of it, which formed an integral part 
of the religious observances of God's own chostiS 
people. Passing mention, however, is demanded by 
the paschal lamb, which was eaten by the Jews with 
peculiar solemnities at the Feast of the Passover^'" 
accompanied by unleavened bread and bitter herbs, 
and roasted on a spit made of pomegranate wood. 

The Levitical Code abounds with ordinances for 
regulating the cooking and dressing of food ; but 
the reproduction of the German painter's " Marriage 
in Cana " is given here to show the remarkable view 



THE DIETARY OF THE SCRIPTURES 45 

it aflfords of a country-house interior of the sixteenth 
century, in which the dining-room appears to lead 
out of, and form an extension of, the kitchen. 

In the Jewish dispensation there was a simplicity 
about the authorised dietary of the people which 
at times was almost ascetic in its austerity. But there 
was no vegetarian exclusiveness. 

The Scriptures, it is curious to note, accounted 
it unto Nebuchadn^ezzar, the mighty king of Babylon, 
as a distinct part of his punishment when, for his 
impious pride, he was visited by seven years of in- 
sanity, during which he, unfitted for the company 
of men, " ate the grass of the field like oxen." Are 
these seven years of herbivorous purgation to be 
regarded simply as equivalent to, or symbolic of, 
a lustrum? 

The Rabbis of the Talmud assert that Adam and 
the ten_jg^ierations succeeding him were absolute 
vegetarians, to wEom all animal food was strictly 
prohibited (Genesis i. 29). Rabbi Joshuah ben Levi 
says when Adam' was punished for the great dis- 
obedience, and told that through his fault the ground 
would be cursed, he felt the greatest humiliation at 
that portion of his sentence, " Thou shalt eat the 
herb of the field" (Genesis iii. 18). Tears came 
into his eyes as he exclaimed, " Shall I and. mine 
ass indeed eat out of one manger? " But when the 
Diviae judgment immediately proceeded, " In the 
sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread," Adam was 
more than consoled. The obvious moral of this 
rabbinical embellishment being, of course, There is 
comfort in work. 



^J 



IV 

THE FOODS AND CULINARY PRACTICES OF 
THE ANCIENTS 

Simple meals of a primitive people — Severe regimen of the Spartan 
"Syssitia" — The public mess — Black broth of Lycurgus— 
Sybarite v. Spartan — Why Sparta decayed — Pythagorean philo- 
sophy — Common tables — Gymnasts not vegetarians — Food and 
cookery of Homeric heroes — Greek culinary art — Epicureans — 
The Latins — Sumptuary laws — Excesses of Vitellius — Domitian 
and Heliogabalus— The high art of Roman cookery — Pork diet 
— Invention of capons — LucuUus — The slave cook — ^Addephagia, 
Goddess of Good Cheer — Ancient Egyptians — ^Their dietary — 
"The skeleton at the feast" — The ancient leaning towards 
vegetarianism — Early use of legumes — Invention of the grind- 
stone — Mola, Goddess of Mills — Invention of bread — Parsley — 
Its virtue — The cabbage adored — The leek a divinity — ^The 
haricot discovered by Alexander — And the onion — ^Asparagus 
— Truffles — Mushrooms — The cherry — The olive. 

The Golden Age derived its splendid appellation from 
the innocence of its manners and the simplicity of 
its food. 

In the primitive ages of the world, the first men 
everywhere are believed to have regaled themselves 
on every mild and wholesome herb, and on all the 
luscious fruits spontaneously produced. The Arca- 
dians lived on acorns, the Argives on pears, the 
Athenians on figs. The poets corroborate this testi- 
mony of the ancient historians. We may read that 
Fabricius, after having been honoured with several 
triumphs, was found in his cottage eating the pulse 

46 



THE FOODS OF THE ANCIENTS 47 

•he had himself raised and gathered in his garden. 
Horace tells us that Scipio and LaeHus, while their 
cabbage was boiling, used to spend the vacant hour 
indulging in sallies of social mirth and humour 
with Lucilius, the old poet. And, says the moralist, 
the life of man was abbreviated as his luxury in- 
creased — the seven kings of Rome reigned longer 
than the first twenty of its emperors. 

To argue from' this that the ancients were avowed 
and rigid vegetarians is absurd. But it may readily 
be conceded that the minds of a highly cultured 
people, amenable to the logic of facts, would grasp 
the many hygienic advantages which were to be 
obtained by a rig^d adherence to a severely re- 
stricted diet. 

The rigours of set diet for hygienic and disci- 
plinary purposes are seen in the history of ancient 
Greece. According to the laws of Lycurgus 
(B.C. 776), every Spartan child was exhibited im- 
mediately after birth to public view, and if deemed 
deformed or weakly, and unfit for a future life of 
labour and fatigue, was exposed to perish on Mount 
Taygetus. Living always in apprehension of a revolt 
of the Helots, their hereditary slaves, the Spartans 
were compelled to be a nation of soldiers. 

At the age of seven every, Spartan boy was tafaen 
from his mother's care, and handed over to public 
classes, to be trained under special ofHcers of thje 
State ; he was taught gymnastic games, subjected 
to severe bodily discipline, and compelled to submit 
to hardships and suffering without repining or com- 
plaint. A Spartan was not considered to have 
reached the full age of manhood till he was thirty^ 
when he was allowed to marry, and considered eligible 
for an officer of State. But he remained still under 
public discipline, spending most of his time in 
military, exercises, and was not permitted even to 



48 GOOD CHEEK 

reside and take meals with his wife. He slept at 
night in the public barracks, and took his meals with 
his comrades at the public mess. 

The public mess— called " Syssitia "—is said to 
have been instituted by Lycurgus to prevent all in- 
dulgence of the appetite. Public tables were pro- 
vided, at which every male citizen was obliged toi 
take his meals. Each table accommodated fifteen 
persons, who formed a separate mess, into which 
no new member was admitted, except by the unani- 
mous consent of the whole company. Each sent 
monthly to the common stock a specified quantity 
of barley meal, wine, cheese, and figs, and a little 
money to buy flesh and fish. No distinction of any 
kind was allowed at these frugal meals. Meat was 
only eaten occasionally, and one of the principal 
dishes was black broth. Of what it consisted we 
do not know. The tyrant Dionysius found it very 
unpalatable ; but as the cook told him, the broth 
was nothing without the seasoning of fatigue and 
hunger. Truly was the black broth of Lycurgus 
symbolical of a glorified patriotism. The Spartan 
woman was not accounted a member of the family 
but a part of the State. She was proud of herself 
and of her children. When a woman of another 
country said to Gorgo, vnfe of Leonidas, " The 
Spartan women alone rule the men," she replied, 
" The Spartan women alone bring forth men." 

Another anecdote to the same purport relates that 
a native of Sybaris, after tasting the renowned but 
unpalatable black broth, exclaimed, " I am not 
astonished that you Spartans are so fearless of death 
on the battlefield, since any one in his senses would 
rather die than be compelled to live on such 
execrable food." 

When the black broth of Lycurgus disappeared, 
Sparta decayed. There came a time when the lead- 



THE FOODS OF THE ANCIENTS 49 

ing men, being able to enrich themselves by foreign 
comlnands or at the expense of the public treasury, 
formed themselves into a higher class of citizens, 
called Peers, While the lower orders, called Inferiors, 
although nominally in enjoyment of equal privileges, 
were no longer able, in consequence of the altered 
state of living, to bear their share in the Syssitia, 
and so sank into a degraded and discontented class, 
ripe for sedition and anarchy. The accumulation of 
wealth into a few hands and luxurious living were 
the downfall of Sparta. 

The Pythagorean philosophy, which came a cen- 
tury or two later, in so far as it was an esoteric 
institution, was supposed to include religious orgies, 
notwithstanding that its ethics demanded the practice 
of asceticism. It has been represented that Pytha- 
goras forbade all animal food ; other authorities 
contend that he allowed all kinds of animal food 
except the flesh of oxen used for ploughing, and 
rams. There is a similar discrepancy as to the pro- 
hibition of fish and beans. But temperance of all 
kinds seems to have been strictly enjoined. It is 
also stated that the Pythagoreans had common meals, 
resembling the Spartan system, at which they met 
in companies of ten. The cultivation of a calm de- 
meanour and an elevated tone was aimed at, and it 
was taught that souls utider the domination of sensu- 
ality either passed into the bodies of animals, or, if 
incurable, were thrust down into Tartarus, to meet 
with expiation or condign punishment. 

Milo, of Crotona, six times victor in wrestling at 
the Olympic Games, is said to have been a member 
of the Pythagorean school, yet it is related that after 
his feats of carrying a four -year-old heifer on his 
shoulders through the stadium at Olympia, he ate the 
whole carcass in a single day. The gymnast of the 
Pythagorean cult was manifestly very far from being 
a vegetarian. 

4 



50 GOOD CHEER 

In the matter of their repasts the illustrious 
Homeric heroes were not in the least fastidious, nor 
did they hanker after variety in their viands. But 
they possessed vigorous and uncultivated appetites, 
and appear to have possessed an astounding 
stomachic capacity. Generally they were contented 
with roast beef ; for a festival or a wedding dinner 
the frugal fare was a piece of roast beef ; and the 
king of kings, the pompous Agamemnon, offered no 
greater rarity to the august chiefs of Greece assem- 
bled round his hospitable table. It is true that the 
guest to be most honoured received for his share an 
entire fillet of beef. 

But this was not gluttony. It was the satisfying 
of a natural and a healthy appetite, such as heroes 
had ere man had learnt to live the artificial life, and 
as a consequence become finicking and dyspeptic. 
Not only did Milo eat a whole beast, but we are 
told that Theagenes of Thasos, another athlete, simi- 
larly refreshed himself to this extent after a pro- 
longed bout of severe physical exercise. These feats 
are recorded because they were " heroic," something 
more than life-size. Did not Hercules and Lepreas 
have a friendly contest which should in the quickest 
time eat up a whole ox? And when Hercules had 
won did he not challenge his adversary to a drinking 
bout, and came off victor again? In those primitive 
times the principal meal was at the close of the 
day, the supper, which even kings prepared with 
their own hands, when beef, or mutton, or goat's 
flesh satisfied the daintiest appetites. 

The heroes of Homer prepared their repasts with 
their own hands. Ulysses surpassed all others in the 
art of kindling a fire and laying a cloth. Patroclus 
drew the wine, and Achilles very carefully turned 
the spit. Such were the simple manners of the 
heroic age. But as the centuries rolled by it is not 



THE FOODS OF THE ANCIENTS 51 

unreasonable to suppose that this pristine simpUcity 
slightly waned. Indeed, it would be unsafe to assert 
that the Greeks and the Romans did not arrive at 
a knowledge of chimneys. In Aristophanes' comedy 
" The Wasps " there is a character, Philocles, who 
hides himself in a chimney. A slave who hears 
him cries out, " What a noise there is in the pipe of 
this chimney ! " Philocles, being discovered, ex- 
claims, " I am the smoke, and I am trying to eiscape." 

That the ancient Greeks were adepts in the art 
of the table must appear from the fame of that lost 
recipe of the poet Menander — it was for a fish sauce, 
and its fame has come down through more than 
twenty centuries as having been delectable and am- 
brosial beyond all belief. 

To Greece belonged the honour of producing the 
original seven sages of the kitchen : Orion, who 
invented the white sauce, and Lampriadas, the dis- 
coverer of brown sauce ; Nereus of Corinth, who made 
of the conger-eel a dish fit for the gods, and Agres 
of Rhodes, who first taught the bone method of dress- 
ing fish ; Atlantus, who made the most perfect restora- 
tive, and Euthymus, who cooked vegetables so ex- 
quisitely that he was named Lentillus. 

Then there was that mysterious mess of Circe's, 
into the compounding of which an element of poetry 
should surely be enumerated as an essential in- 
gredient : — 

" Red wine, and in it barley-meal and cheese and honey, and 
mighty drugs withal, of which if a man drank he forgot all that 
he loved." 

One who indulges systematically and critically in \ 
the luxuries of the table is called an epicure ; but | 
this appropriation of the name of the celebrated 
Athenian teacher, Epicurus, is said to be an aspersion 
on the character of that philosopher, whose mode of 



52 GOOD CHEER 

living was really simple, temperate, and cheerful. He 
held that human happiness was the ultimate end of 
all philosophy, an ethical theory founded on the 
dogma of the Cyrenaics, that pleasure constituted 
the highest happiness, and must consequently be the 
end of all human exertions. It is owing to a very 
superficial knowledge of his philosophy and the un- 
deserved ridicule of the comic poets that those wjho 
gave themselves up to a sensual life came to be called 
Epicureans . 

It is recorded that Epicurus, whose doctrine may 
have been effeminate, wrote to a friend that he lived 
upon nothing but biscuit and water, and desired him 
to send him a little cheese to reserve till he had 
a mind to make " a sumptuous feast." 

Even the Latins began with the simple life. The 
Romans in the earlier periods of their republic, when 
even a consul would dine on a roasted turnip, were 
distinguished by their frugal temperance ; but as 
they increased in wealth and power they sank into the 
grossest sensual extravagance — the records of the 
empire have been aptly entitled the " aimals of 
gluttony." The profusion of the Emperor's table 
almost exceeds belief. When invention failed to pro- 
vide delicacies to stimulate the languid appetites of 
Rome's imperial epicures immense rewards were 
offered to discover new combinations of food. 

It has been said that Rome would never have 
needed sumptuary laws had it not been corrupted 
by cooks from Athens and Syracuse. It is forgotten 
that the ordinances of the consuls prescribed profu- 
sion, which led to excess ; and the ruinous expenses 
of a ridiculous gastrophagy could scarcely but follow 
in due time. The quantity and the quality of food 
disposed of was alike extravagant. 

The Emperor Claudius generally had six hundred 
guests at his table. Galba breakfasted before day- 



THE FOODS OF THE ANCIENTS 53 

break, and the cost of his breakfast would have 
enriched a hundred families. Julius Caesar some- 
times ate at a meal the revenues of several pro- 
vinces. Tiberius gave more than three thousand 
pounds to the author of a dialogue in which the 
interlocutors were supposed to be mushrooms, fig- 
peckers, oysters, and thrushes. Geta had all sorts 
of meat served up to him in alphabetical order. Nero 
sat at the table from midday till midnight, amidst 
the most monstrous profusion. 

Could the follies of gastronomic monomania go 
farther? 

History knows no greater glutton and epicure than 
the Emperor Vitellius, friend and favourite of Nero. 
Indeed, his chief talent lay in eating and drinking ; 
he made the table his amusement, and spent enormous 
sums of money upon it. We read of Vitellius that he 

" could with beastly voracity exemplify the gluttony which prevailed 
in the time of the Caesars by eating a round thousand of oysters at a 
sitting ; and increased the heinousness of the offence by availing 
himself of the abominable fashion then in vogue of tickling the palate 
with a peacock feather in order to make room for new indulgence. 
Even the wise and good Seneca, who praised poverty but could not 
live comfortably on millions of money, ate a few hundred oysters 
daily, and then blamed the delicious mollusc for his indigestion." 

Vitellius made four meals a day, and all those 
he took with his friends never cost less than ten 
thousand crowns. That which was given to him by, 
his brother was most magnificent ; two thousand 
select dishes were served up : seven thousand fat 
birds, and every delicacy which the ocean and the 
Mediterranean Sea could furnish. 

Domitian one day convoked the Senate to know 
in what fish-kettle they should cook a monstrous 
turbot, which had been presented to him. The 
senators gravely weighed the matter ; but as there 
was no utensil of this kind big enough, it was pro- 



54 GOOD CHEER 

posed to cut the fish in pieces. This advice was 
rejected. After much deliberation it was resolved 
that a proper utensil should be made for the purpose ; 
and it was decided that whenever the Emperor went 
to war a great number of potters should accompany 
him. The most pleasing part of the story is that a 
blind senator seemed in perfect ecstasy at the turbot, 
by continually praising it, at the same time turning 
in the very opposite direction. 

Then there was the Emperor Heliogabalus, whose 
reign was characterised by acts of fantastic folly 
and bestial excesses, the particulars^ which almost 
transcend the limits of credibility. On one occasion 
he had the heads of six hundred ostriches brought 
to his table, only to eat their brains. Camel's flesh 
was served at his banquets, and camel's feet he con- 
sidered a great delicacy. 

On one occasion Heliogabalus regaled twelve of his 
friends in a manner scarcely to be credited : he gave 
to each guest animals of the same species as those 
he served them to eat ; he insisted upon their carry- 
ing away all the vases or cups of gold, silver, and 
precious stones out of which they had drunk ; and 
it is remarkable that he supplied each with a new one 
every time he asked to drink. He placed on the 
head of each a crown interwoven with green foliage, 
and gave each a superbly ornamented and well-yoked 
car to return home in. He rarely ate fish but when 
he was near the sea ; and when he was at a distance 
from it he had his fish served up with sea-water. 

It must not be thought that these solecisms of 
luxury were characteristic of Roman society, even in 
its most luxurious period. The feasts of Nero and 
Heliogabalus were not typical of Imperial Rome — 
they were the exaggerations and excesses of eccen- 
trics, and were, no doubt, strongly disapproved of by 
their contemporaries. 



THE FOODS OF THE ANCIENTS 55 

Culinary practice, however, was carried almost to 
the level of a fine art ; one achievement of Rotnan 
cooks, for instance, was to dress pork and give it 
the flavour of any other description of meat they 
chose. Similarly they counterfeited fish and flesh 
with vegetable preparations. These were praise- 
worthy achievements ; but what can be said of their 
practice of slaughtering young pigs with red-hot spits, 
so that the blood might not be lost? 

The old English way of preparing brawn was to 
confine a young boar in a small space at harvest- 
time, and feed him on sweet whey till Christmas, by 
which time, owing to his continual lying on sweet 
straw, which was changed every morning, he had 
become fat, sweet, and wholesome. When thus 
brawned to a turn, as the old writer says, a knife 
was thrust into one of his flanks, and he was allowed 
to run about till he died. This sounds bad enough, 
but we are assured that in ancient times the Roman 
cooks thrust a hot iron into the boar's side and then 
ran him to death, thinking thereby that his flesh 
waxed tenderer and his brawn firmer. 

The pig, it will be seen^ provided no inconsiderable 
proportion of the flesh food used by the Romans. 
Their dish called the " Trojan pig " saw the animal 
brought to table whole, in a lifelike attitude, the 
garnishing of the dish being arranged to heighten the 
effect. Sucking pigs were eaten to such an extent that 
the censors were at last obliged to interdict their use. 

Bacon was a food of great utility among the 
Romans before the days of their unruly luxury, when 
it was relegated to the soldiers and proletarians. 
The Roman women made excellent black puddings 
and sausage in imitation of those of Greece. 

.The oock, always honoured as a warlike bird, did 
not at first enjoy a high culinary reputation in Rome. 
And when that tyrant of the kitchen, C. Fannius, 



56 GOOD CHEER 

the Consul, thought that hens, owing to the enormous 
consumption of them, would soon become extinct, 
he ordered that for the future Romans should dis- 
pense with fattening and eating this delicious table 
bird. But the law said nothing about cocks, a 
silence which saved Roman gastronomy, for the capon 
was invented. 

Upon this, Rome was moved to transports of 
delight, and spread the fame of the skilful enchanter 
who could metamorphose the clarion of the farm- 
yard into the plump, tender, and delicious bird 
beloved of the epicure. Even Fannius himself, whoi 
served with a roast capon, bestowed his praises on 
the prodigy ; and from that period nearly all chickens 
underwent the ingenious transformation which 
reaidered them so welcome at all Lucullian tables. 

Lucullus had a number of supper -rooms in his 
palace, each distinguished by the name of some deity 
who was supposed to preside over the feast, and to 
each of which a particular style was appropriated, 
and always kept in a certain state of readiness . 'When 
he sent word to his servants that he would sup in 
the Apollo, it was a sign to them to prepare the 
most sumptuous entertainment his mansion could 
yield. A single meal in this room never cost less 
than 50,000 denarii, upwards of £1,000. This great 
Roman has derived more celebrity from the inordi- 
nate magnificence of his luxury than from his victories 
over Mithridates. Even during his campaigns the 
pleasures of the table were never neglected by him. 
As is well known, he was the first to introduce the 
cherry into Italy. 

Livy, writing of the later and luxurious Rome, 
says :— ' , ■ , ,. -- ' - '■• ^ 

" Then was a cook the most useful slave that could be, and began 
to be much esteemed and valued, and, all bedabbled with broth and 
bedaubed with soot, was welcomed out of the kitchen into the 



THE FOODS OF THE ANCIENTS 57 

schools ; and that which before was accounted as a vile slavery was 
honoured as an art whose chiefest care is only to search out every- 
where the provocatives of appetite, and study in all places for dainties 
to satisfy a most profound gluttony I abundance of which Gellius 
cites out of Varro, as the peacock from Samos, the Phrygian turkey, 
cranes from Melos, Ambracian kids, the Tartesian mullet, trouts 
from Pessenuntium, Tarterine oysters, crabs from Chios, Tatian nuts, 
Eg}rptian dates, and Iberian chestnuts." 

Though the Romans inherited all the luxury of 
Greece and Asia, they never erected a temple to 
Addephagia, Goddess of Good Cheer. There were 
altars to this deity in Sicily, from which place Rome 
imported her best cooks. 

Another great nation of antiquity, the Egyptians, 
though they venerated quite a number of animals, 
cannot be claimed as vegetarians. 

An Egyptian painting of still life in the British 
Museum represents a shoulder of veal, and a. goose, 
plucked and trussed, ready for the spit, lying on a 
table tastefully decked with flowers and fruit. Goose 
was a favourite dish with the Egyptians, but as their 
religion forbade them to eat onions, they could never 
have known the real toothsomeness of the bird 
cooked with that very necessary adjunct to roast 
goose. For, as the oracle of the kitchen has 
declared i — 

"All cooks agree in this opinion — 
No savoury dish without an onion." 

Again, one of the paintings on the tomb of 
Rameses III., at Thebes, represents the interior of 
an Egyptian kitchen, in which are seen cooks busily 
engaged roasting, boiling, basting, skimming the pot, 
blowing the fire, poQijiding spices in a mortar, and 
performing all the multifarious duties of a cook. All 
this points to the attainment, at an early date, of a 
fairly high level of achievement in the practice of the 



58 GOOD CHEER 

culinary art, Rameses III. being generally acknow- 
ledged as the Pharaoh of the Exodus — say fifteen 
centuries before the Christian era. 

To a peculiar custom of the ancient Egyptians, 
which is thus described by Herodotus, we may trace 
the origin of the well-known phrase which alludes 
to " the skeleton at the feast " : — 

" After their convivial banquets, among the wealthy classes, when 
they have finished supper, a man carries round in a coffin the image 
of a dead body carved in wood, made as like as possible in colour 
and workmanship, and in size generally about two cubits in length ; 
and showing this to each of the company, he says : ' Look upon this, 
then drink and enjoy yourself ; for when dead you will be like this. 
This practice they have at their drinking parties." 

Although the later history of Rome exhibits the 
Latins as brutally carnivorous — some of their culinary 
atrocities were of a nature which renders mention 
of them in these pages quite impossible — evidence 
is not lacking of a strong leaning to vegetarianism. 
Grey peas were sold at the circus and theatres, and 
though the price was low, they were regarded as 
tasty and desirable food ; candidates for public em- 
ployment distributed them gratuitously among the 
people in order to obtain their suffrages. The Roman 
voluptuaries, too, invented most astonishing ragouts 
of mushrooms and pot-herbs. Of the early history 
of vegetable foods the study of geoponics affords 
many interesting details. Room may be found 
for a few items relating to the better known ones 
which have been in the service of man from the 
earliest times to the present. 

In the happy simplicity of the Homeric ages, the 
great heroes who dealt such terrible blows, leaving 
death and desolation behind them, reposed after their 
exploits, partaking of a dish of beans or a plate of 
peas. It may perhaps be difficult to realise a picture 



THE FOODS OF THE ANCIENTS 59 

of Patrocles peeling onions or of Achilles washing 
cabbages. Though the wise Ulysses roasted, with his 
own hands, a sirloin of beef, vegetables occupied the 
most conspicuous places at all the great banquets of 
ancient Greece . The Romans, too, had such liking for 
leguminous plants that their most illustrious families 
did not disdain to borrow their names from them. 
The appellations Fabius, Cicero, and Lentulus thus 
enhanced the humble renown of beans (faba), peas 
(cicer arietinum), and lentils {lenticuld). Cicero, 
it is related of the great orator, one day gave the 
preference to a dish of beetroot, instead of oysters 
and lampreys, of which he was passionately fond. 
The lentil derived its name from lentus (slow), 
because it was believed the moisture in this pea 
produced heaviness of mind, and rendered men 
deliberate and reserved, if not, indeed, indolent and 
lazy. 

The Greeks honoured King Miletus as the inventor 
of grinding -stones ; the upper part, as used by them, 
was of wood, and armed with the heads of iron nails. 
A passage of Homer, it is interesting to note, would 
lead us to believe that the grain was first crushed 
with roller on iron slabs and afterwards milled 
between the grinding-stones . Two centuries before 
the Christian era the victorious Romans carried with 
them into Asia their handmills ; soon after this the 
nobler conquest of industry gave them mills obedient 
to the power of horses or asses. They then set up, 
as the patroness and protectress of mills and mill- 
stones, the goddess Mola, whom they honoured on 
Jtme 9th, upon which day all mills were silent 
throughout the land. 

Bread was invented either by the Egyptians or*,. 
the Hebrews. The Greeks are said to have had 
more than fifty varieties of bread, and it was from 
them the Romans learnt the art of making it. 



60 GOOD CHEER 

"^ Parsley formed the crown with which Hercules, 
as conqueror of the Nemsean lion, crowned himself ; 
Anacreon celebrates it as the emblem of joy and 
festivity ; Horace commanded his banquetingf-hall 
to be decorated with parsley and roses. Fable makes 
parsley the food of Juno's coursers ; the warriors 
of Homer fed their chargers with it for battle. XVhile 
its strong, penetrating odour was supposed to excite 
the brain to agreeable imaginations — which explains 
its being worn by guests round their heads — parsley 
was also the symbol of mourning admitted at the 
dismal repasts of obsequies. 

The cabbage was adored by the Egyptians, who 
raised altars to it. Afterwards they made this strange 
god the first dish in their repasts. The Greeks 
and Romans ascribed to it the happy quality of 
preserving from drunkenness ; and Erasistratus 
looked upon it as a sovereign remedy against 
paralysis . 

The Igek, national emblem of gallant little Wales, 
has a long and strange history. By the Egyptians 
this vegetable was dreaded as a powerful divinity ; 
as a food it was bewailed by the Israelites in their 
journey through the wilderness ; as a medicine it 
was supposed by the Greeks to cure quite a number 
of diseases. There is a tradition that its seeds will 
aanalgamate in germination ; that if as many of 
them as can be taken up with three fingers be 
placed in a piece of linen, covered with manure, and 
watered with care, they will forta themselves into a 
single seed and in due season produce a monstrous 
leek. 

Europe is indebted to Alexander the Great for 
the haricot. It happened one day that the great 
conqueror was herbalising in India — ^worthy pupil 
of Aristotle — and his eye fell upon a field of haricots, 
which appeared to him to be very inviting. It was 



THE POODS OF THE ANCIENTS 61 

the first time he had seen this plant, and he ardened 
his cook to prepare a dish of its beans — we do not 
know with wjiat sauce, but he thought them so good 
that Macedonia was soon enriched with a new 
vegetable. 

Alexander found the onion.Jn,_„E!gypt, where the 
Hebrews had learned to fike it. He had it cultivated 
in Greece, and given as food to his troops, in the 
belief that it excited martial ardour. i.Whoever wishes 
to preserve his health, said an ancient saw, should 
eat every morning, before breakfast, young onions 
and honey. This sounds rather sensible, though not 
very tempting to the man of ordinary tastes. Next 
to salt, onion is the most valuable seasoning in 
cookery. 

The still more pungent garlic was cultivated from 
the earliest age ; it formed part of the rations of the 
Egyptian pyramid -builders, and it was given to the 
Roman soldiers as an excitant. 

Of the succulent ajparagus Asia is said to be 
the native soil. Yet the Ronians cultivated it with 
such marvellous success that the sticks raised at 
Ravenna are said to have weighed three pounds 
each, while we are asked to believe that the African 
variety, grown in Libya, reached a height of twelve 
feet. Manifestly, there was no need for the ancients 
to bundle up their asparagus into hundreds, as our 
puny, shrivelled variety has now to be prepared for 
market. Yet it must have boiled quickly, as the 
simile commonly used by Augustus for rapidity of 
execution was, "Quicker than asparagus cooks." 

The truffle, pearl of banquets, " sown by the 
thunderbolts in the autumnal storms," was known 
to the ancients. The Romans were as fond of it 
as the Greeks, and that was not a little. This 
precious fungus grows in clusters under the roots 
of young trees, and is traced by the gluttonous 



62 GOOD CHEER 

instincts of pigs, or by trained dogs. In the sandy 
soils of South-west France trufifles vegetate at a 
depth of five or six inches— Perigueux and Carpentras 
are the most famous districts. 

The Emperor Claudius had a strong predilection 
for n^ushrofiijis : he was poisoned with them, by 
AgrippLna, his niece and fourth wife ; but as the 
poison only made him sick, he sent for Xenophon, 
his physician, who, pretending to give him one of 
the emetics he commonly used after debauches, 
caused a poisoned feather to be passed into his 
throat. 

Nero used to call mushrooms the relish of the 
gods, because Claudius, his predecessor, having been, 
as was supposed, poisoned by them, was, after his 
death, ranked among the gods. 

To Mithridates, King of Pontus, of toxologic 
memory, and better known by physicians than 
gardeners, we owe the delights of the sweet cherry. 
This ancient king and philosopher did not pass the 
whole of his time in composing poisons and their 
antidotes ; for with his own royal hands he planted, 
and sometimes grafted, this useful fruit-tree. Three 
hundred years before the Christian era the cultivated 
cherry passed from Lower Asia into Greece. This 
fruit enriched the second course in Athens and the 
third in Rome ; the ancients appreciated it more 
highly than we 4o nowadays. Pliny credits LucuUus 
with bringing the cherry into Italy about seventy years 
before the Christian era, and the Romans introduced 
it into Britain. The name " cherry," or " cerise," is 
derived from that of the town Cerasus, in Asia Minor, 
where it is supposed to have been first cultivated. 

Throughout antiquity the olive was regarded as 
venerable, and, of all useful fruits, the most 
nourishing. The wise Minerva gave it birth ; and 
its foliage, which adorned the brows of the goddess, 



THE FOODS OF THE ANCIENTS 63 

served thenceforth to crown victory, or to give rise 
to the sweet hopes of peace. A green bough of 
olive rendered the suppliant inviolable. From its 
wood were made the arrows of Hercules, the sceptres 
of princes, and the crooks of shepherds. Among 
the Jews, the most important culture was that of 
the olive-tree. They not only used the olives to make 
oil, they also preserved them in brine to be eaten 
at tables. In ancient Rome olives made their 
appearance in the first course, and sometimes they 
were served again after the repast, with the dessert. 
Olives used as hors dPoeuvres clear the palate. Three 
varieties are now in use, Italian, French, and Spanish ; 
those imported from Spain are the largest and most 
esteem.ed. Olive-oil largely takes the place of butter 
in the warmer countries of Europe. The Roman 
partiality for oil in their cooking still remains with 
the modem Italian. 

Here our catalogue must terminate. Though the 
list is by no means exhausted, it probably includes 
the chief vegetable foodstuffs which have been been 
longest, and still remain, in the service of civilised 
man. 

In conclusion, it is significant to note that man, 
at quite an early period of his civilisation, succumbed 
to the disorders of the alimentary system ; for we 
find the ancient Greeks eating ripe blackberries 
under the- impression that they were a sovereign 
preventive of gout. 



A ROMAN BANQUET 

Roman meals — " From the egg to the apples" — The dining-room, 
or cmnaculum — ^The classical sideboard — ^Tables — ^The s^ma — 
Dining-couches — Guests on arrival — Dining-robes — The 
domestic servants — The departure of guests — The elegance of 
the entertainment — Smollefs burlesque dinner — ^A pedantic 
host and his cook — ^A course with a pungent odour — Ludicrous 
efforts with the triclinia — The host describes his dishes — Sal 
ammoniac and other strange edibles — Precipitate disasters at 
table. 

When not asleep, the Romans sometimes breakfasted 
at three or four in the morning, generally on a little 
bread and cheese, or some dried fruit. The more 
sober citizens took a slight collation, consisting, 
perhaps, of a little bread and a few figs, towards 
midday. But as most of them seldom' failed to give 
themselves up to the pleasures of the table once 
a day, they reserved their best efforts for the solemn 
hour of the banquet. 

Cicero relates that the philosopher Plato appeared 
to be very much astonished when, travelling in. Italy, 
he noticed that the inhabitants ate twice a day. 
Later, in the days of their grossest luxury, the 
Romans took five meals a day and ate voraciously 
at each. These were a breakfast, a kind of luncheon, 
then another meal between that and their supper, 
which was the chief meal, and which was followed by 

64 




b i 



X 


■5 5 


a 








h 








J 


-^■'1 


-a; 


•*j 




■5 __- 


S 




O 


•S ~ 


% 


^= 






< 


^ 


-J 


O 


etc 






^ 


S,.- 




'^^ 


H 


"Sf 


K 












O* 


lg 


z 






a: 




^s> 



A ROMAN BANQUET 65 

something sweet called commissatio. Their feasts 
commenced with light food, such as eggs, oysters, 
&c., and concluded with a dessert of fruit, whence 
arose the phrase ab ovo usque ad mala, ".from the 
Qgg to the apples "—that is, from the beginning to 
the end. 

The principal repast, which in the later centuries 
of Rome's history developed a culinary monomania, 
and produced those follies and extravagances of the 
ta!ble which are almost incredible, took place at the 
end of the day. It will be remembered that the Jews, 
as we read in the New Testament, supped at the ninth 
hour — that is, at three o'clock in the afternoon, and 
that this meal was the most important of the day. 
?iVe at once recall that Herod made a supper to his 
lords, that " a certain man made a great supper," 
and, above all, there was '^ the Last Supper." 

It was the Roman ccena,, or supper, which called 
forth all the exertions of the Roman cook. 

The Roman dining-room (caenaculum) was in the 
upper part of the house, and reached by an ample 
staircase. It was commonly decorated with trophies 
of arms and other mementoes of the warlike virtues 
of the ancestors of the master of the house ; the 
wall spaces were occupied by charming frescoes ; 
the floor of elegant mosaic -work harmonised with the 
magnificent landscape painted on the ceiling. When 
the tables were spread, garlands of fresh Bowers 
were entwined an(^ festooned about the apartment. 

The buffet, a sort of sideboard of rare workman- 
ship, generally stood opposite the entrance door. 
It sometimes consisted of a single foot supporting 
a white marble table, having above it two elegant 
shelves upon which plates and dishes were arranged. 
Or sometimes the artistic fabricator gave it the 
iwhimsical form of a ship laden with the vases for 
the banquet ; four enormous amphorae, or wine- 

5 



66 GOOD CHEER 

vessels, occupying the deck on two sides of the 
mast, a candelabrum standing at the prow, and 
a largfe-bellied carUharus, or goblet-like vase with 
mobile handles, being placed on the stem ; the 
main topmast would be replaced by a large urn, and 
two cups of Bacchus would be gracefully balanced 
at either extremity of the yard, along which were 
suspended the craters or vases used in drinking wine. 

The room was heated, when necessary, by the 
flues from the hypocaust, but portable braziers were 
always ready for use-; the artificial lighting was 
obtainable from oil lamps, or from candles, or from 
torches of sweet -smelling resinous wood. 

The tables were of wood, or of bronze, or some- 
times of fine silver, according to the social position 
of the entertainer. Some nobles and senators used 
tables made of precious woods, veneered with plates 
pf gold, or enriched with buhlwork of ivory and 
shell. These splendid pieces of furniture were at 
first square, then rounded in a crescent or horseshoe 
shape, which they called a sigma, from the Greek 
letter resembling (in shape) our " c." The guests 
Whom the host wished to honour most were placed 
at the extremities of this hemicycle. 

The opulent used a num'ber of tables, which they 
changed at each course, though the less luxuriant 
changed only twice, the fish and flesh appearing 
on the first and the fruit being served on the second. 
According as they rested on one, two, or three feet 
;(generally fashioned as lion's claws) they were 
designated monopedes, bipedes, and tripedes. They 
were cleaned with a sponge and a thick plushed 
linen cloth. 

In humWe life the table was of common wood, 
resting on three plain legs. The table of the well-to- 
do citizen might be of maple or some similar wood, 
supported on one leg, perhaps embellished with an 



A ROMAN BANQUET 67 

ivory foot. Three couches at most ^{triclinia) were 
arranged round this rectangular form of table, 
sometimes only two {biclinia). Good Society never 
exceeded the number four. 

In reclining, the upper part of the body was 
supported by the left elbow ; the lower part was 
extended at length. The head was slightly raised, 
and soft cushions supported the back. When several 
persons occupied the same couch, the first placed 
himself at the head in such a manner that his feet 
nearly reached the shoulders of the second guest, 
whose head was before the body of the preceding one, 
from whom he was separated by a cushion. 

When the couch contained three persons, the 
middle one occupied the place of honour ; when 
there were four, the distinction belonged to the 
second. When not more than two persons were 
present, the most worthy was placed at the head 
of the couch. 

The guests on arrival performed their ablutions, 
threw off their togas, for which they substituted 
comfortable dinner robes, and then took off their 
sandals, preparatory to taking their places at table. 
Before coming to the banquet they had taken baths, 
and sublmitted themselves to the attentions of the ton- 
sores (barbers) ; and they had given particular care 
to the cleaning of their teeth. In all these details 
of the toilet Roman etiquette demanded the most 
scrupulous degree of cleanliness . Shakespeare reminds 
us of one who 

"Being barber'd ten times o'er, goes to the feast." 

The system of domestic slavery enabled the 
Romans, in the d^ys of their magnificence, to be 
served at meals by a whole army of attendants. 

At the head of the domestic slaves in a large 
household was the steward, or dispensator, who not 



68 GOOD CHEER 

only regulated the labour but apportioned the 
chastisements when necessary. 

Besides the attendants who were seen in the 
banqueting-room, there was another unseen army 
of them employed in the kitchen — as the cooks and 
their satellites, and the focarii (stokers) who cut 
the wood, lighted and kept up the fires. 

The Romans had a servant— the obsonator, or 
purveyor — whose duty it was to go to market and 
make the necessary purchases of meat, fruit, and 
all the delicacies needed at the table. The vocatores, 
men selected for the office on account of their 
urbanity, carried the invitations, received the guests, 
and placed them at table according to their rank. 

The valets who arranged and adorned the table- 
couches were called the citbicularii. 

For the banqueting-room all arrangements were 
in the hands of the tricliniarii, who directed the 
repast, and occupied themselves with an infinity of 
details in the kitchen, the cellar, the pantry, and 
the buffet. In the best houses there was also a 
taster (pragustator), who tried every viand before the 
guests were allowed to be served with it. 

When the repast commenced the dishes were 
carried to table by the dapiferi; the names of the 
dishes and the qualities of the various things served 
were called out by the nomenclatores . An attendant, 
called the structor, arranged the dishes on the 
table symmetrically, and in their proper places. Then 
the meats were cut up by the scissor (or carver) to 
the sound of musical instruments, of which he 
followed the measure. Finally, the procillatores 
served the guests, pouring out their drink and paying 
them every attention. These cup-bearers were young 
slaves, generally beardless youths with a fresh com- 
plexion, and long, silky hair, falling in curls over 
their shoulders. They wore white tunics, confined 



A ROMAN BANQUET 69 

at the waist by a wide riband, which went twice 
round. Was not Gan}Tnede, most beautiful of 
mortals, chosen to be cupbearer to Zeus? 

Attendants of an inferior grade were the penicali, 
or washers, who came in with sponge or cloth to 
clean the tables, and who sometimes assisted in the 
laying of the covers and the floral decoration of the 
room. 

Nor were these all the household servants seen 
at a Roman banquet. While the guests were softly 
reclining on their table-couches other slaves, sanda- 
ligeruU, attended to their sandals, and fastened them 
on at the moment of departure. Others, flabetlarii, 
armed with fans of peacocks' feathers, drove away 
the flies and cooled the banqueting-hall. 

The banquet terminated, the guests' own servants 
were called upon . The adversatores, carrying lanterns 
or torghes, conducted their masters home, never 
failing to point out the stones and other obstructions 
in the path, which frequent libations might prevent 
the diners discovering for themselves. If the haughty 
dame were carried to and from the feast in a palan- 
quin, the humbler slaves assigned to this duty were 
the lecticarii. 

All the servilities were performed silently and 
gracefully, but without lyidue' obsequiousness ; the 
whole entertainment was pervaded with an air of 
elegance and refinement, with its cloud of ministering 
attendants ready and watchful to anticipate every 
wish, to meet each requirement ; the scented 
fountains, the profusion of rose-leaf-stuffed cushions, 
the playing of soft music, and all the costly appoint- 
ments by which the diners were surrounded, com- 
pelled a languorousness and a sybaritic indulgence 
that must, in the inevitable result, have been ener- 
vating, and altogether unworthy of a once virile and 
warlike nation. 



70 GOOD CHEER 

This bare outline of the Roman etiquette of 
dining will serve to introduce a more vivid and 
picturesque accoimt of a dinner " after the manner 
of the ancients," which is supposed to be given at 
a time when, at least, the dress of the diners would 
be as dissimilar as possible from that worn by the 
Romans at dinner. To eat gracefully in a reclining 
position, when clad ki loose, flowing drapery, was 
easy of accomplishment ; to attempt the same feat 
encumbered in costumes of stiff brocades and em- 
broideries, and above all with heads encased in 
monstrous powdered wigs, would be highly ludicrous. 

.When classicalism ran riot in this country in the 
eighteenth century, dominating English architecture, 
education, art, and literature, and intruding itself in 
various ways into the luxurious living of the rich, 
little wonder some one should satirise the craze when 
it threatened to become a feature of English cookery. 

It is thus we find, in one chapter of " Peregrine 
Pickle," Smollett remorselessly burlesquing an 
ancient Roman dinner. The hero, on his travels, 
comes across two of his countrymen in Paris — a 
doctor, who assumes an air of profound learning and 
is extremely pedantic, and an artist, who is almost 
devoid of culture. Peregrine cultivates their acquaint- 
ance in order to amuse himself with them. 

The doctor pretended, above all things, to have" 
intimate acquaintance with the Greek and Roman 
writers ; indeed, he affected a deep reverence for 
everything ancient. Pickle having given his new 
friends a good dinner at his lodgings, the doctor 
returned the compliment by inviting him to a grand 
banquet which he pompously proposed, in his sham 
enthusiasm, to prepare after the manner of the ancient 
Romans . 

Young Pickle saw the possibilities of great fun, 
and to enhance the diversion bespoke the company 



A ROMAN BANQUET 71 

of a French marquis, an Italian count, and a Gemicin 
baron, all of whom he knew to be egregious cox- 
combs. When they arrived at the hotel they were 
received by Pallet, the painter, the doctor being busily 
engaged with the cook. Five cooks had already 
been dismissed because they positively refused to 
comply with the doctor's orders, and violate all the 
canons of their art. The sixth was only prevailed 
upon to carry out his employer's orders by the pay- 
ment of a heavy premium, and even he now begged 
to be relieved from the terms of his agreement, 
capering about the kitchen for two hours, protesting, 
cursing, and weeping, but finding the doctor in- 
exorable. 

Presently the doctor appeared, and after the usual 
compliments, dinner was announced. Then the 
diversion commenced, though it is to be feared 
Smollett rather burlesques the scene. The enter- 
tainer, says the novelist, led the way into the 
apartment where the table was spread and already fur- 
nished with a variety of dishes, the steams of which 
soon showed an effect upon the nerves of the com- 
pany, ; the marquis made frightful grimaces under 
pretence of taking snufFi ; the Italian's eye watered ; 
the German's visage underwent several contortions 
of feature ; Peregrine tried to exclude the odour by 
breathing only through his mouth ; as to the poor 
painter, he had to run back into the other room and 
plug his nostrils. 

The doctor, who was the only person not discom- 
posed, pointing to a couple of couches placed on 
each side of the table, told his guests he was sorry 
he could not procure the exact triclinia of the 
ancients, which were somewhat different from these 
conveniences, and desired they would have the good- 
ness to repose themselves without ceremony, each on 
his respective couchette, while he and his friend 



72 GOOD CHEER 

Mr. Pallet would place themselves upright at the 
ends, that they might have the pleasure of serving. 
As none of them understood the ancient manner of 
lolling, it is amusing to read of the disconcerting mis- 
haps which occurred while they were attempting to 
dispose themselves round the table. The perplexities^ 
mistakes, and consequent confusion may be 
imagined, the awkward and painful postures, the 
disarrangement of stiff, modish dress, being but minor 
difficulties ; the climax came when the big, un- 
wieldy baron, in raising his heavy legs to the level 
of his upper limbs, brought his feet into violent con- 
tact with the head of the marquis, demolishing every 
one of his beautiful curls, while his own periwig was 
knocked off with such violence that it filled the whole 
room with a cloud of hair -powder. The drollery of 
their distress was as nothing compared with their 
ridiculous affectation of^nconcem, as mutual apolo- 
gies were tendered with elaborate politeness, and 
received with rueful complaisance. These mis- 
fortunes ended and the damages repaired, the meal 
began, the doctor undertaking to give an account of 
the dishes as they appeared, so that his guests might 
be guided in their choice. 

He began : " This here, gentlemen, is a boiled goose, served up in 
a sauce composed of pepper, lovage, coriander, mint, rue, anchovies, 
and oil. I wish, for your sakes, gentlemen, it was one of the geese 
of Ferrara, so much celebrated among the ancients for the magnitude 
of their livers, one of which is said to have weighed upwards of two 
pounds ; with this food, exquisite as it was, did the tyrant Helioga- 
balus regale his hounds. But I beg pardon, I had almost forgot the 
soup, which I hear is so necessary an article at all tables in France. 

" At each end there are dishes of the salacacabia of the Romans ; 
one is made of parsley, penn3T0)ral, cheese, pine-tops, honey, vinegar, 
brine, eggs, cucumbers, onions, and hen-livers ; the other is much 
the same as the soup-maigre of this country. Then there is a loin of 
boiled veal with fennel and carraway seed, on a pottage composed 
of pickle, oil, honey, and flour, and a curious hash of the lights, liver, 
and blood of a hare, together with a dish of roasted pigeons." 



A ROMAN BANQUET 73 

The gTiests who tempered their politeness with dis- 
cretion and chose wisely, Uke Peregrine, escaped 
disaster. But the unfortunate Frenchman, having 
asked for soup, had no sooner swallowed the first 
spoonful than he " made a full pause, his throat 
swelled as if an egg had stuck in his gullet, his 
eyes rolled, and his mouth underwent a series of 
involuntary contractions and dilations." Pallet, wish- 
ing to consult the connoisseur before venturing upon 
the soup, began to be disturbed by these convulsions, 
and observed with some emotion that the poor gentle- 
man seemed to be going in a fit j but the mischievous 
Peregrine assured him that these were symptoms of 
ecstasy, and found confirmation when the poor 
marquis recovered sufficiently to master his disgust, 
and asseverate on his honour that the soup was really 
excellent. The painter being thus certified, without 
further scruple lifted a spoienful to his mouth, but 
no sooner had the precious composition diffused itself 
on his palate than he seemed suddenly deprived of 
all sense and motion, " and sat like the leaden statue 
of some river, with the liquor flowing out at bo|th 
sides of his mouth." 

The doctor, alarmed at this indecent phenomenon, 
earnestly inquired into the cause of it ; and when 
Mr. Pallet recovered his recollection and swore that 
he would rather swallow brimstone than such an 
infernal mess as that which he had tasted, the 
physician, in his own vindication, assured the company 
that, excepting the usual ing'redients, he had mixed 
nothing in the soup but some sal-ammoniac instead 
of the ancient nitrum, which could not now be 
procured, and appealed to the marquis whether 
such a succedaneum was not an improvement on the 
whole. 

The polite Frenchman, driven to extremity, 
acknowledged it to be of masterly refinement ; and 



74 GOOD CHEER 

feeling obliged, in point of honour, to put these senti- 
ments into practice, forced a few more mouthfuls 
of the stuff down his throat, till his stomach was so 
much offended that he was compelled to start up all 
of a sudden, and in the hurry of his elevation he over- 
turned his plate into the bosom of the baron. How 
the wretched sufferer rushed out of the room, in too 
great extremity to apologise ; how Peregrine 
followed, aided in his recovery, and undertook to 
make his peace with the rest of the company ; how 
the outraged baron, frantic with indignation, stamped 
and cursed as his lackey wiped the grease from his 
rich embroidered waistcoat must be read in the 
original. Peregrine, scarce hiding his suppressed 
merriment, managed with consummate tact to restore 
peace. 

The unhappy salacacabia being removed, the places 
were filled with two pies — one of dormice, liquored 
with the syrup of white poppies, which the doctor 
had substituted in the room of toasted poppy-seed, 
formerly eaten with honey, as a dessert ; and the 
other composed of a hock of pork baked in honey. 

The irreverent painter, upon hearing the composi- 
tion of the first-named, exclaimed, " Lord in heaven I 
what beastly fellows those Romans were." The baron 
imitated the example of his host, and partook of the 
veal, after having called for a bumper of burgundy, 
which the doctor wished to have been the true wine 
of Falemum. Pallet also had recourse to this dish, 
but could not refrain from declaring that he would 
not give one slice of the roast beef of old England 
for all the dainties of a Roman emperor's table. 

Not a single guest could be prevailed upon to 
try the hashis and the goose ; and on their removal 
they were succeeded by divers dishes which the host 
told them' obtained among the ancients the appellation 
of politeleSf or magnificent. 



A ROMAN BANQUET 75 

" That which smokes in the middle," said he, " is a sow's stomach, 
filled with a composition of minced pork, hog's brains, pepper, cloves, 
garlic, aniseed, rue, ginger, oil, wine, and pickle. On the right-hand 
side are the teats of a belly of a sow, just farrowed, fried with sweet 
wine, oil, flour, lovage, and pepper. On the left is a fricassee of 
snails, fed, or rather purged, with milk. At that end, next Mr. Pallet, 
are fritters of pompions, lovage, origanum, and oil ; and here are a 
couple of pullets, roasted and stuffed in the manner of Apicius." 

The painter, having testified his abhorrence of the 
composite messes, was desired by his host to carve 
the fowls, whereupon he tucked the table-cloth under 
his chin and brandished the carving-knife and fork 
with singular success, leading up, though imcon- 
sciously, to the final catastrophe. No sooner had 
he pushed the fork in the birds than his eyes filled 
with tears, which presently streamed down his cheeks, 
as though his nostrils had been assailed by the 
essence of a whole bed of g'arlick. But when he 
thrust in his knife and opraied up the cavity, he was 
assaulted by such an irruption of intolerable smells 
that, without staying to disengage himself from the 
cloth, he sprang away with an exclamation, and in- 
stantly wrought the whole table in havoc, ruin, and 
confusion. Everybody round the table was involved, 
more or less, in the alarming catastrophe, the count 
being badly scalded on the leg by the sow's stomach, 
which, bursting in its fall, discharged its steaming 
contents over him. 

The poor count had to have his injuries dressed 
at once, and the painter did not dare to return till 
he had made his apologies by proxy. The doctor, 
after his shame and vexation had subsided, protested 
that there was nothing in the fowls which could 
give offence to a sensible nose, the stufiSng being a 
mixture of pepper, lovage, and asafoetida, and the 
sauce consisting of wine and herring pickle, which he 
had used instead of the celebrated garum of the 
Romans, that famous pickle having heien prepared 



76 GOOD CHEER 

sometimes from the scrombi, which was a sort pf 
tunny-fish, and sometimes from the silurus or shad- 
fish ; nay, he observed that there was a third kind, 
called garum hcemation, made of the guts, gills, and 
blood of the thynnus. 

It being impossible to re-establish the order of 
the banquet, a clean cloth was laid, and the dessert 
ordered to be brought in. Meanwhile, the doctor 
regretted his inability to give them a specimen of 
the alieus, or fish-meals of the ancients — such as the 
jus diabaton, the tonger-eel which, in Galen's opinion, 
is hard of digestion ; the cornuta, or gurnard, de- 
scribed in the Natural History of Pliny, who says the 
horns of many of them were a foot and a half in 
length ; the mullet and lamprey, that were in the 
highest estimation of old, of which last Julius Caesar 
borrowed six thousand for one triumphal supper. 

Proceeding with his discourse, the irrepressible 
doctor observed that the manner of dressing them 
was described by Horace in the account which he 
gives of the entertainment to which Maecenas was 
invited by the epicure Nasiedenus, and told them that 
they were commonly eaten with the thus Syriacum, a 
certain anodyne and astringent seed which qualified 
the purgative nature of the fish. In the zenith of 
the Roman taste it was reckoned a most luxurious 
dish, though not comparable to some in vogue when 
that absurd voluptuary, Heliogabalus, ordered the 
brains of six hundred ostriches to be compoimded 
in one mess. 

But what the exuberant master of the feast valued 
himself upon when the dessert arrived was a sort 
of jelly, which he affirmed to be preferable to the 
hypotrimma of Hesychius, being a mixture of vinegar, 
pickle, and honey, boiled to a proper consistence, 
and candied asafcetida, a gum which was always 
so highly considered by the ancients. 



A ROMAN BANQUET 77 

And so the learned physician descanted at large 
while the champagne was gradually wiping out the 
recollection of the contretemps which had marked his 
ill-starred attempt to revive the culinary triumphs of 
ancient Rome. 

Let it be borne in mind that Tobias Smollett 
was himself a Doctor of Medicine. And it is quite 
apparent that he had studied Apicius, for his descrip- 
tion of the dish of sow's stomach— which, by the way, 
we now eat, when properly boiled, as chitterlings — is 
according to the true Apician method, though it is 
to be feared the novelist works out the idea with a 
somewhat farcical extravagance. And it should not 
be overlooked that cookery was formerly regarded 
as the best form of medicine ; hence the frequent use 
in olden times of medicinal plants as pot-herbs, 
judiciously selected and blended, as they were 
astringent or purgative, or possessed of other 
corrective virtues. It must have required a Spartan 
stomach, however, to have tolerated the employment 
in culinary matters, as the Romans did, of that ultra- 
fetid gum, asafcetida. 

The moral of Smollett's laughable account of the 
exploits of his culinary sage seems to be that " too 
many cooks spoil the broth." 



VI 

EARLY ENGLISH FARE 

Ancient Britons' dietary — Druidical orgies — Saxon intemperance 
— Danish excesses — " Hogg-tide " — A Saxon dinner — The 
Norman housewife — Dainty feeding — Change of habit — Saxon 
animals and Norman meats — Cedric, an English franklin — His 
household' and hospitality — Norman royal household — The 
"feast bearer" — An era of profusion — Thirteenth-century vege- 
table foods — Indigenous fruits — Imported fruits, wines, sugar, 
and spicery — ^A tariff of provisions — Prodigious consumption of 
fish — Yarmouth herring pies — Gloucester lamprey pie. 

In the words of the national bard, " I have good 
cheer at home, and I pray you go along with me." 
Which is an invitation to the study of the culinary 
history of our own country, a task surely not without 
its allurements to a people which has always, from 
days of old to the present time, boasted themselves 
mighty trenchermen. 

The early Britons, according to the testimony of 
Diodorus Siculus, were remarkably simple in their 
diet. The grain they cultivated in little patches 
was reduced to paste in a mortar, and formed their 
chief article of food. Practically the only additions 
to the table were milk and flesh. 

On great and solemn occasions, however, as in 
times of public calamity, sin unnatural feast was 
celebrated. The Druids enjoined the immolation of 
certain victims to excite, or to appease, one of their 
multifarious deities. A venerable Druid, perhaps 
trembling himself at the awful rites he was about to 
perform, led the silent flock into the secret recesses 

TS 




ANGLO-SAXON DINNER PARTY AT A ROUND TABLE. 
From an old MS. 




ANGLO-SAXON DINNER PARTY AT A LONG TABLE. 
From an old MS. 



To face p. 79. 



EARLY ENGLISH FARE 79 

of the sacred groves of oak. There, at the dark 
hour of midnight, the human offering was brought 
forth and adorned for the altar. At the fatal sign 
the consecrated dagger was plunged into the victim's 
heart. The body was then laid open, the entrails 
examined, and the augury pronounced. Finally the 
bloody butchers sat down to their horrid feast, each 
one without exception religiously partaking of the 
human sacrifice. These awful orgies were celebrated 
with weird rites and the mysteries of an esoteric 
religion, in the deep and gloomy recesses of the 
primeval forest. 

Our Saxon progenitors were by no means a 
temperate people. They frequently passed a whole 
night in feasting' and carousing. They prepared for 
the Battle of Hastings by feasting and gorging! 
With habits of debauchery, their fate was but homely. 
An old Saxon illumination of a feast shows three 
persons seated at a table, and two others on their 
knees serving them. The banquet consists of a large 
fish, on a kind of dish in the middle, and two other 
dishes, apparently containing boiled meat and broth, 
on either side. The attendants seem to hold spits 
in their hands (each having a gravy dish), from 
which one of the seated figures is cutting a portion. 
Another seated figure, with a fish in his left hand, 
is being pledged by the figure in the middle, who is 
drinking from a goblet. The table is covered with 
a cloth, on which are trenchers, probably of white 
maple-wood ; a. spoon, also of wood ; and a knife of 
the usual Saxon razor-shape, with a point that might 
possibly serve the office of a picker or fork. The round 
table denotes a private or family dinner party ; the 
long table a public dinner, at which also the pledging 
of healths was an important part of the business. 

The dominion of the Danes in this country tended/ 
to increase the excesses of eating and drinking to' 



80 GOOD CHEER 

which the Saxons were already too much addicted. 
By their religion the Danes were led to hope for 
a glorious immortality, spent in feasting and intoxica- 
tion. Hardicanute, the last of the Danish line who 
swayed the sceptre of England, was famous for his 
bounty and hospitality. Four times a day his tables 
were spread, at which all were welcome, invited guests 
and any friends they cared to bring with them. 
Hardicanute fell a victim to his excesses, being seized 
with a fit while present at a wedding feast at 
Lambeth, from the effects of which he died in a few 
days. The anniversary of the royal glutton's death 
was long celebrated under the appropriate name of 
Hogg -tide. An ancient chronicle says he never would 

" be served with ony like metes of one meale in another," and that 
" chaunge and diversitie was dayly in greate habundance " ; that he 
" caused cunynge cooks in curiositie ; also he was the furst that 
began four meales stablyshed in oon day, opynly to be holden for 
worshupf ull and honest peopull resorting to his Court ... for which 
four melys he ordeyned four marshalls, to kepe the honor of his 
halle, in recevyng and dyrecting straungers." 

The Anglo -Dane's ideas of hospitality were truly 
regal I 

A Saxon dinner has been thus described in a work 
entitled " Sea Kings in England " : — 

"The dining-table was oblong, and rounded at the ends. The 
cloth was a rich crimson, with a broad gilt margin, and hung low 
beneath the table. The company sat upon chairs, with concave 
backs, and were arranged much as at the present day, with the view 
that to each of the ladies should be assigned a neighbour of the 
other sex. . . . The dishes consisted of fowls and fish, of the flesh 
of oxen, sheep, deer, and swine, both wild and domestic, not 
excepting certain portions of the sea swine, or porpoise — a food not 
at present much in repute, but at that period no unfrequent article 
of diet. There were two sanda, or dishes, of sodden syflian, or soup 
bouilli, and one of seathen, or boiled goose. The bread was of the 
finest wheaten flour, and lay in two silver baskets upon the table. 
Almost the only vegetable in use among the Saxons was kale wort ; 
and the only condiments were salt and pepper. These various 



EARLY ENGLISH FARE 81 

articles were boiled, baked,? or broiled, and were handed by the 
attendants upon small spits to the company. . . . The diners made 
use of their fingers to eat with, but for the sake of cleanliness each 
person was provided with a small silver ewer containing water and 
two flowered napkins of the finest linen. Their dessert consisted of 
grapes, figs, nuts, apples, pears, and almonds." 

The well -to-do Saxon trader lived in gteaX comfort. 
He was absolute master in his own house, but the 
household was directed by his wife. Everything 
was made in the house ; the flour was ground, the 
bread was batted, the meat and fish were saltdd. 
These were the staple foods. 

In the Norman period the good housewife might 
keep her pantry and her larder well victualled in 
advance, but fresh beef and mutton were still scarce. 
Very little venison or other game found its way to 
their tables, the Game Laws being so exceedingly 
strict. In the London coolcshops boiled and roast 
meats, and fish and poultry and game in season, 
might be bought by those who had the money to 
pay for them. 

The Normans introduced into this country a 
system of cookery of a comparatively high class, 
though as the centuries rolled on the tradition of 
this school became obscured, and gave way to a 
.coarser style of heavy feeding. No doubt the tables 
of the early Norman kings displayed a profuse 
quantity of food, but despite the occasional use of 
coarse material, the excellence of the cookery threw 
into the shade the efforts of later epochs. 

The ,,Normans were dainty . eaters, epicures, and 
therefore their cooking was nice. Rich spices were 
plentifully used. Among the grand dishes provided 
on great occasions were the boar's head, and the 
peacock, served to the blare of trumpets, with 
much ceremonial — of which more anon. A dish of 
cranes was a favourite dish on the table of a baron.- 

6 



82 GOOD CHEER 

Simnel and Wastel cakes and spice -bread were among 
the usual dainties. Wastel -was a fine, well-baked 
white bread next in quality to simnel^ a rich cake 
generally made in a three-cornered shape. 

The daily routine of a Norman household is seen 
in the rhyme of the period : — 

" To rise at five, to dine at nine, 
To sup at five, to bed at nine. 
Makes a man live to ninety-and-nine." 

This shows a remarkable change in manners, 
because the Saxons had four heavy meals during 
the day. Another striking change effected by the 
Conquest in domestic arrangements was that new 
names were given to certain articles of food. 

While alive, animals reared and fattened fori food 
retained their Saxon names, being tended by Saxon 
servants ; but when they were killed and cooked and 
brought to table, they were dignified with Norman 
names. It was in this way an ox became beef; a 
calf, veal; a sheep, mutton; a sow, pork; a deer, 
venison, and a fowl, pallet. Bacon retained its 
Saxon name because the Normans despised it. In 
" Ivanhoe " we read : " Swine is called pork when 
carried to the castle hall to feed the nobles " ; but 
the inference that the swineherd never tasted pig is 
wrong, for it formed his principal, if not his only, 
flesh food. : I 

" Old Alderman Ox continues to hold his Saxon title while he is 
under the charge of serfs and bondsmen ; but becomes Beef, a fiery 
French gaUant, when he arrives before the worshipful jaws that are 
destined to consume him. 

Whether we regafd Cedric as a Saxon thane or 
an English franklin the description of the evening 
meal in his mansion, as given by Scott in the third 
and fourth chapters of " Ivanhoe," affords a useful 
insight into the. rude simplicity of the period. 



EARLY ENGLISH FARE 83 

The hall is described as having a dais and a 
T-shaped table ; to the elevated portion of the table, 
the seats are massive chairs and settles of oak, over 
which hangs a canopy of cloth to protect the 
dignitaries who occupy them from wind and 
weather. The two chairs in the centre of the upper 
table, more elevated than the rest, are for the master 
and mistress who preside over the hospitality, and 
who, from doing so, derived their Saxon titles of 
honour—" Lord " and " Lady " — which signifies " the 
Qividers of Bread." To each of these chairs is also 
added, as a further mark of distinction, a carved 
footstool. The higher attendants at the table include 
a major-domo, who carries a white wand, and a 
cup-bearer ; among the minor domestics are pages 
and torch -bearers . 

When guests suddenly arrived (as is set forth in 
the romance) they were honoured with seats near 
the host and hostess, and the oldest wine -cask was 
immediately broached. The other beverages with 
(which the drinking-horns of the lower table and 
the silver goblets of the upper were filled, included 
sparkling cider, the mightiest ale, the best mead, the 
richest morat (a drink made of honey flavoured with 
the juice of mulberries) and odoriferous pigment 
(a rich liquor composed of wine, highly spiced, and 
sweetened with honey). As one of the visitors is a 
prior, he is courteously asked if he would prefer 
the acid preparation of milk demanded by his 
monastic rule ; to which he graciously replies that 
it is only at the abbey table that he has to restrict 
himself to the lac dulce or the lac acidum. The 
other visitor, being a /gallant knight, drinks wassail 
to the fair ward of his ho^t . Thus are the interesting 
customs of the time pleasantly introduced to our 
notice. Then as to the viands with which the board 
was spread, we read that at the lower table appeared 



84 GOOD CHEER 

swine's flesh dressed in several modes ; that the 
other dishes at the meal comprised " fowls, deer, 
goats, and hares, and various kind of fish, together 
with huge loaves and cakes of bread, and sundry 
confections made of fruits and honey." 

" The smaller sorts of wild fowl, of which there was an abundance, 
were not served up in platters " (says the great romancer) "but brought 
in upon small wooden spits or broaches, and offered by the pages 
and domestics, who bore them to each guest in succession, who cut 
from them such a portion as he pleased." 

But when, presently, a Jew traveller arrives, the 
hospitality of the house, though not refused to the 
outcast infidel, is tendered less warmly — he is allowed 
to sup apart from the great table, on a mess of 
pottage and seethed kid. Even a boundless 
hospitality may be narrowed by religious intolerance. 

The whole extract is interesting and informative. 

The Conqueror, with whom the crane was a prime 
favourite, was given to indulgence at the table, which 
induced that unwieldy corpulence which was the 
indirect cause of his death. His kitchen was an 
expensive part of his household, in which the principal 
officer, the magnus coquus (chief cook), was a person 
of considerable account. 

#- With the Norman Conquest came an increase in 
ithe royal dignity, the Norman Court being better 
planned than the royal household of Anglo-Saxon 
times. Both these had grown out of the German 
idea of the household, with its reeve, dish-thane, cup- 
bearer, and staller ; but in the Conqueror's household 
these domestic officers had been supplemented by 
many others. Household departments in his English 
palace were multiplied, to each of which was 
appointed an official head, whose office tended to 
become hereditary and one of dignity only. This 
is to be recognised in the titles still borne by a 
number of the royal household officials. The Steward 



EARLY ENGLISH PARE 85 

of England, now " the first officer of State," was, 
in far-away feudal times, the chief server at the 
royal repast. 

All the royal household offices were presided over, 
at leg,st nominally, by the highest of the king's men ; 
but they certainly delegated to others the active 
services they did not care to perform personally. We 
must not accept literally the legend of the Colchester 
monks that their earl became dapifer (that is, feast- 
bearer, or steward) because William fitz-Osbern, the 
King's trusted minister, served up an underdone crane 
before his royal master. There is probably more 
truth in the story of the origin of the Earl of 
Chester's golden wand. Four earls, the chronicler 
tells us, were to carry swords of state before Rufus 
to the great feast at Westminster Hall. Hugh, 
Earl of Chester, declined to catry anything, saying 
he was no servant. Thereupon the King offered him 
a golden wand, and made the bearing of it an 
hereditary office of dignity. 

From magnificence of table ceremonial to a 
display of profusion was an easy step. An era of 
profuse hospitality set in, some notable examples 
of which aiion. 

An ancient roll containing the household expenses 
of the Countess of Leicester, who was a daughter 
of King John, and wife of the great Simon de 
Montfort, makes mention of the vegetable foods in 
use in the thirteenth century. Very few esculent 
plants are named — dried , pease and beans, parsley, 
fennel and onions, green peas and new beans, com- , 
plete the list, with the exception of " pot-herbs " 
not specified. It is known that cresses, endive, 
lettuce, beets, parsnips, carrots, cabbages, leeks, 
radishes, and cardoons were all cultivated in France 
as early as the days of Charlemagne, but they do 
not seem to have found their way into England till a 



86 GOOD CHEER 

very much later period. If they did, they were 
unknown outside a few monastery gardens. 

Apples and pears are amongst the oldest of English 
fruits ; and of the varieties per'haps the warden pear 
ranks earliest. 

"Myself with denial I mortify 
With— a dainty bit of warden pie, 

sang the Friar of Orders Grey.\ Matthew Paris, 
describing the bad season of 1257, observes that 
" apples iwere scarce, and pears scarcer, while quinces, 
vegetables, cherries, plums, and shell fruit were 
entirely destroyed." The last named included hazel- 
nuts, walnuts, and perhaps chestnuts. In 1256 the 
sheriffs of London were ordered to purchase two 
thousand chestnuts for the King's own use. The 
royal fruiterer of Edward I. included medlars with 
the fruits already mentioned ; but there seems a 
scarcity of indigenous fruits. 

Among the imported fruits, and often included in 
the term " spicery," were almonds, dates, figs, and 
raisins. In the time of John, Rochelle was famous 
for its pears and conger-eels ; in the reign of 
Edward I. a Spanish ship brought to Portsmouth a 
cargo which included Seville figs, raisins or grapes, 
"a bale of dates, 230 pomegranates, 15 citrons, and 
7 oranges." Two centuries later Wolsey used a 
dried Seville orange, stuffed with cloves, as a scent- 
ball, though earlier pomanders were generally filled 
with nutmeg, if not with musk or ambergris. While 
the orange was thus known in England in 1290, 
strangely enough it cannot be traced in France earlier 
than 1333. 

When John, King of France, was brought captive 
to England, after the Battle of Poitiers (1356), he 
was lodged at first in the Savoy Palace, London, 
and afterwards transferred for greater security to 



EARLY ENGLISH FARE 87 

Somerton Castle, Lincolnshire. For his use, large 
quantities of Bordeaux wine were transmitted from 
France, but one of the costly items of his expenditure 
was for sugar. Immense quantities of sugar and 
spices were brought for the French King's use in 
London, Lincoln, and Boston, much of it used in the 
form of confectionery. In the household accounts of 
the captive King repeatedly occur sums for eggs to 
clarify sugar, roses to flavour it, and cochineal to 
colour it. The royal consumption of bon-bons and 
sweetmeats appears to have been remarkably large. 

It was part of a Government policy in olden times 
to fix the prices of provisions, especially of bread, 
ale, and meat. 

A tariff of provisions was fixed by the City of 
London authorities in 1272, as under, owing to the 
extortionate prices commonly demanded by hucksters 
and dealers : — 



The best hen 


... 


...3 half -pence 


Pullet 


... ... 


- 3 


Capon 





... 2 


Goose 


... 


•" 5 


Wild goose , 





... 4 


Pigeons, three for 


... 


... I penny 


Mallard, three for 


... 


... I halfpenny 


Plover 


... ... 


... I penny 


Partridge 


... 


...3 halfpence 


Ttarks, per dozen 


... 


... I penny halfpenny 


Pheasant 


... 


...4 pence 


Heron 


... 


...6 pence 


Swan 





... 3 shillings 


Crane 


... 


...3 shillings 


The best peacock 





... I penny 


The best coney, with skin 


... 


... 4 pence 


The best hare, with skin 


... 


...3 pence halfpenny 


The best lamb, from Christmas to Lent 


... 6 pence 


The best lamb, at other times of the year 


... 4 pence. 



Again, in 1290, when the price of provisions was 
fixed by the Common Council of London, the price 



88 GOOD CHEER 

of two pullets was three halfpence, and a fat lamb 
sixpence, from Christmas to Shrovetide, and the rest 
of the year fourpence. 

In 1313 Parliament fixed prices at the rate of 
£2 8s. of our money for a fat ox, and £3 12s. if it 
were fed with corn ; a shorn sheep, $ shillings ; two 
dozen eggs, 3d. Two centuries later, in the reign 
of Henry VIII., Parliament settled the price of beef 
and pork at a halfpenny the pound, and veal at three- 
farthings. 

The exchequer accounts of Edward III. show a 
prodigious consumption of fish, and also the strictness 
with which the Lenten fast was observed in the 
royal household. In Edwardian times herring pies 
were considered as delicious even by royalty. The 
town of Yarmouth was bound by charter to send a 
hundred herrings, baked in twenty-four pasties, 
annually to the King. Various manors were held by 
the tenure of a similar obligation. 

Lampreys were a favourite dish of medieval 
epicures. So great was the demand for this fish 
in the reign of John, that that monarch issued a royal 
licence to one Sampson to go to Nantes to purchase 
lampreys for the eating of the Countess of Blois. 
The same King issued a mandate to the Sheriffs of 
Gloucester, that city being famous for producing 
lampreys, forbidding them, on their first coming in, 
to be sold for more than two shillings each. In 1341 
the sum of £12 5s. 8d. was paid to the sheriffs for 
forty -four lampreys supplied for the King's use. It 
became customary for the corporation of Gloucester 
to present to the sovereign every Christmas a 
lamprey -pie as a token of loyalty. Gloucester was 
not only famous for its Severn lampreys, but for 
the excellence of its method of stewing them. 



VII 

MONASTIC CULINARY INFLUENCES 

Monastic cuisin« — Refectory officials — Kitchen servitors — "Carro- 
dies " or free meals — Monastic hospitality — Large fish consump- 
tion — Prodigality — Famine calls for restriction — Ancient 
kitchens — Victualling a garrison — Medieval fare of the masses 
— Some causes of periodical famine. 

The refectories of the monasteries and the kitchens i 
of the ecclesiastics w^ere the strongholds of English ! 
medieval cookery. Giraldus Cambrensis informs us 
that the table of the monks of Canterbury consisted 
daily of sixteen covers of the most costly dainties, 
dressed with the most exquisite skill. He relates 
that the monks of Winchester threw themselves ,at 
the feet of Henry II. and complained with tears in 
their eyes that their abbot, the bishop of the diocese, 
had taken from them three of the usual number of 
their dishes. The King, however, thought they were 
still well off with ten, as he had to content himself 
with three dishes. 

In the old records the chief official of the refectory 
department is described as Magister Coqaince, and 
his duties seem to have been those of a purveyor of 
provisions, while the cook who dressed the food is 
called Coquinarius. The officer charged with the 
care of entertaining strangers and seeing that they 
were provided with necessaries was styled Hospiti- 
larius. 



90 GOOD CHEER 

The refectorer's and cellarer's accounts in a large 
monastic establishment show the regular recurrence 
of certain items which are interesting as throwing 
light on a number of practices. A certain provision 
pf beans and oats goes to provide the Lenten " gruel- 
lum." The great festivals are marked by an 
improved quality of the bread, and the provision of 
a special treat in the shape of fried cakes. The 
monks were bled three times a year, and special 
provision was then made for dieting them properly. 
The performance of special duties was rewarded with 
special feeding, as the bathers who bathed the monks 
at Advent, and the laundry servants, who got a 
monastic loaf when they washed the tablecloths. 

The menial servants were under the management of 
the Refectionarius, who was also charged with the 
care of the tablecloths, napkins, drinking vessels, 
and the entire table equipment. 

Then the list of servitors at a great monastery 
was of extraordinary length. The amoimt of manual 
labour engaged in a kitchen without mechanical 
appliances was necessarily large. The accompanying 
illustration shows that the turning of the spit was 
effected by the direct application of hand labour. 

Among those whose duties have some connection 
• with the table were the dapifer, or steward, the 
larderer, the abbot's cook, the monks' cook, the 
servants' cook, the servant of the refectorer, the 
servant of the cellarer, the brewer, the servant of 
the garden, and sometimes of the vineyard, the baker, 
the heater of the bakehouse, the pig-keeper, the 
cowman, the miller, the granar3anan ; and all of 
them had fixed carrodies in the hall, or wages in 
the shape of allowances of ale, bread, a ram or two, 
or the fruits of certain acres. 

It was in these early English times that the custom 
*known as carrodies grew up. A carrody was a grant 




ROASTING, MIDDLE AGES. 
Luttrell Psalter. 




DISHING-DP, MIDDLE AGES. 
Luttrell Psalter. 



To face p. 90, 



MONASTIC CULINARY INFLUENCES 91 

of food (and sometimes of clothing) made in the 
way of charity or in part payment for services ; 
a timid and temporising practice which ran up the 
expenditure of the royal, noble, and monastic 
households very considerably. 

Perhaps that feature of monachism which most 
insured the favour of the people was the constant 
hospitality maintained at these monasteries, and 
which extended its invitations to every class of society, 
from the nobleman to the beggar. In every monas- 
tery of importance a large room or guest-hall, sur- 
rounded with sleeping apartments, was appropriated 
for the reception of travellers, who were allowed to 
remain two days and two nights as visitors, but 
were expected, if they continued after that time, and 
were in health, to conform to the rule of the house. 
Even in the reign of Henry VIII. inns were not 
frequent, and where they did exist they presented 
a scene of dirt and wretchedness which was scarcely 
tolerable even in those days of comparative indiffer- 
ence to cleanliness. Erasmus, who had a national 
susceptibility on this point, has spoken very forcibly 
on the miseries of an English inn at that period. 
It was, therefore, a most acceptable resource to 
travellers of all ranks to enter within the secure and 
commodious precincts of a monastery, where they 
were sure of good fare and a comfortable lodging. 
Even the nobility, when on their journeys, usually 
dined at one religious' house and supped at another . 

When Ralph, Abbot of Canterbury, was installed 
in 1309, six thousand persons were entertained, and 
the dishes served up amounted to three thousand. 
Richard Winchelsey, Archbishop of Canterbury, pro- 
vided daily victuals for five thousand poor people, 
and immense crowds of sick and infirm who were 
unable to attend his gate were supplied with neces- 
saries at their own houses. 



92 GOOD CHEER 

A list of the provisions for the feast of an Arch- 
bishop's enthronement in 1295 will convey an idea 
of the variety of medieval diet when flesh was ex- 
cluded. It comprised 300 ling, 600 cod, 7 barrels 
of salt salmon at 28s. a barrel, 40 fresh salmon at 
7s. each, 14 barrels of white herrings, 20 cades 
(i.e., " long hundreds " of six score each) of red 
herrings, 5 barrels of salt sturgeon, 2 of salt eels, 
600 fresh eels, 8,000 whelks, 100 pike, 400 tench, 
100 carp, 800 bream, 2 barrels of salt lamprey, 80 
large fresh lampreys (from the Severn), 1,400 small 
lampreys, 124 salt conger -eels, 200 large roach, 
besides seals and porpoise. There were olive-oil, 
honey, mustard, vinegar, verjuice (an essential in- 
gredient of medieval sauces), £33 worth of spices 
and comfits, bread, wafers, with wines and beer in 
proportion. The London cooks' wages who were 
hired for the occasion came to £23 ; the rewards 
given to heralds, trumpeters, and mimes amounted 
to £20 ; painting the throne and making " subtel- 
ties," huge erections of plaster and wax, of which 
the edible portion was extremely small, if not non- 
existent, cost £16. To calculate the actual cost in 
present-day values, these sums must be multiplied 
by twenty. And such extravagances were not con- 
fined to the spiritual peers ; the temporal lords were 
equally wasteful and ostentatious in their hospitalities. 

By the time of Edward II. so excessive was the 
demand made upon the households of the great, that 
the barons were compelled, owing to a series of bad 
harvests, to restrict some of the extravagances which 
had so long prevailed. An ordinance was issued in 
the interests of the suffering poor, which denied to 
outside servants and hangers-on at baronial estab- 
lishments the free quarters they had so long enjoyed. 
No one was to claim victuals under colour of min- 
strelsy or errand-running (messagerie) . In the 




•e. 



MONASTIC CULINARY INFLUENCES 93 

hostels of prelates, earls, and barons not mtore thajn 
three or four honourable and genuine minstrels were 
to be all owed free board. The ordinance also cut 
down the number of courses upon men's tables ; 
two courses of flesh of four sorts each were to suf- 
fice ; prelates, earls, barons, and magnates might 
have an " entremet of one manner of charge " ^t 
their table. 

The places in which the meals of such large 
numbers had to be prepared day by day were of 
necessity spacious apartments. 

Most readers are probably acquainted with the 
appearance of the abbot's kitchen at Glastonbury, 
which, with its louvre roof, is often noticed as an 
architectural treasure. 

At Lumley Castle, Durham, may be seen another 
remarkable old kitchen ; it is the loftiest and most 
stupendous in the kingdom', where, on occasion, a 
dinner for a regiment of soldiers might be cooked, 
and which, no doubt, has witnessed in the past many 
an immense roast at its enormous fireplaces. 

Raby Castle has a fourteenth-century kitchen, 
thirty feet square, with three large fireplaces in it, 
the smoke escaping from a louvre in the centre of 
the roof. 

Here we may glance for a moment at the amount 
of food which, in those feudal fighting days, was 
deemed necessary to victual a place like Dover Castle, 
for the maintenance of a thousand men for forty 
days. The regulation supplies comprised i8o 
quartets of wheat, to provide a loaf a day per man ; 
600 gallons of wine, and 260 quarters of malt, where- 
with to brew 520 gallons daily; of meat '(for 18 
days out of the 40), 104 score carcases, 270 of 
bacon and 8 score and 2 of mutton. For the 22 
fish days there were required 18,000 herrings, 1,320 
cod, and 600 stockfish. In addition there were 



94 GOOD CHEER 

" weighs " of cheese and an allowance of pottage. 
Even with the careful provision of mustard, salt, 
spices, vinegar, eisell (common vinegar), and ver- 
juice, the garrison could not have enjoyed a very 
varied diet. 

The food of the agricultural labourer in the 
Edwardian period consisted, principally of fish, chiefly 
herrings, of beer, and of bread made of barley, 
rye, peas, or sometimes of beans ; occasionally, as 
at " harvest home," he got messes of pottage and 
cheese. Rye-bread was " black bread." 

The craftsman in the town was able to get better 
fare. From the earliest date the City of London was 
famous for its good cheer. Fitz -Stephen records 
that in the time of Henry H., "besides the wine 
sold in the shops and vaults, there is a public cookery, 
or cooks* row, where, according to the season, you 
may buy victuals of all kinds, roasted, baked, fried, 
and boiled ; fish, large and small, with coarse viands 
for the poorer sort, and more delicate ones for the 
rich, such as venison, fowls, and small birds." 

(VVIhile the mansions of the nobles and the halls 
of the gentry abounded with the luxuries of the 
period, in the seventeenth year of Edward HI.'s reign 
it was ordained that no " common man " should 
have upon his table dainty dishes or costly drinks. 

It is easy to see, with a little reflection, why famines 
were frequent in olden times. Farmers sold their 
crops as soon as they had gathered them, and as the 
trade of a corn-factor was unknown, and com was 
only stored in castles, abbeys, and granges, pur- 
chasers looked only to their immediate wants, and, 
having bought the com cheap, were improvident in 
their consumption of it ; and so if the next harvest 
was a bad one, the commodity became scarce, and 
there was a famine. Piers Plowman tells us that 
after an abundant harvest no beggar would eat bread 



MONASTIC CULINARY INFLUENCES 95 

that had beans in it, but would have " cohet and 
clermatyne " (particular kinds of fine bread) or else 
bread of " clean wheat," and " no halfpenny ale in 
no wise." 

Till the middle of the sixteenth century dearth, 
if not famine, was frequently rampant in the land. 
Food was often dear from economical causes — ^as 
the arbitrary fixing of prices and the consequent 
withholding of foodstuffs from the markets, till bams 
had to be searched for com by order of the justices. 
Grain, milk, butter, cheese, pigs, and poultry would 
rise to prohibitive prices through the ignorance of 
the law-makers trying to override the imperative law 
of supply and demand. In one insurrection against 
high prices and low wages thousands of wretched 
workmen were slaughtered. 



VIII 

RIGHT ROYAL FEASTING 

A marriage feast— King John's Christmas feast— The royal precept 
for spicery — For wine — Fish and other provisions — " Purvey- 
ance " — A precept on the royal farms and forests — The enormous 
quantities required not monkish -exaggerations — But the scale 
of magnitude. 

A MARKED feature of medieval life was the frequent 
display of profusion and luxuriance at the tables of 
the great. 

One of the most extravagant galas of this kind 
was given by Richard, brother of Henry III ., on his 
marriage with Cincia, daughter, of Raymond, Count 
of Provence. The crowds of guests, the richness of 
their dresses, the number of minstrels and other 
entertainers engaged, were truly astonishing. The 
number of dishes served up amounted to thirty 
thousand. 

The barons took their cue from the monarch, 
and as an example of " right royal feasting " nothing 
could exceed the profusion of King John's Christmas 
feast in the year of grace 121 3. And this was at 
a time when the Pope's interdict still himg over the 
land ; when although, by the resignation of his crown 
to the Papal See, John had reconciled himself to 
Innocent, he had yet cause to tremble at the power 
and determination of the confederated nobles, who 
in the autumn had sworn never to desist from de- 
manding the " good old laws of the kingdom." All 

96 



RIGHT ROYAL FEASTING 97 

this trouble evidently failed to interfere with the 
royal appetite, or to lessen the King's capacity for 
festivity. Although John had just complained that 
the royal exchequer was empty, with characteristic 
recklessness he made all preparations for the holding 
of a mighty Christmas feast. 

From the Close Rolls we learn that Reginald 
de Comhill was commanded to 

" cause Galfrid the Salter to receive for us 40 lb. of pepper, 6 lb. of 
cloves, half lb. of gariofiU " (what this was we cannot discover ; that 
it was very valuable appears from the circumstance that 20s. per lb. 
was paid for it, and that in no entry does it ever appear to have been 
obtained in a larger quantity than half a pound), "half lb. of nutmegs, 
3 lb. of cinnamon, 3 lb. of ginger, to be used for us, and that it 
be placed to our account." 

Another precept, dated December 12th, is ad- 
dressed to the Keepers of the Royal Wines at South- 
ampton for three hogsheads of wine. 

By a further precept, dated Guildford, Decem- 
ber 17th, Reginald de Cornhill is commanded to 
send immediately to Windsor 

" twenty hogsheads of wine, costly, good, and new, both Gascony 
wines and French wine, and four hogsheads of best wine for our 
own drinking {ad os nostrum) both two of white wine and two of red 
wine, and that it be sent without delay, that it may be received 
before the day of the Nativity. And we require, for our use, against 
that day, 200 head of pork, and 1,000 hens, and 500 lb. of wax, and 
go lb. of pepper, and 2 lb. of saffron, and 100 lb. of almonds, good 
and new, and two dozen napkins, and 100 ells of linen cloth, to make 
table cloths, and 50 ells of delicate cloth of Rancian, and of spiceries 
to make salsas [probably this word rather signifies pickles] as much 
as ye shall judge necessary, and that all these be .sent thither by 
Saturday or Sunday nearest Christmas. And ye shall send thither 
15,000 herrings and other fish, and other victual, as Ph. de Lange- 
burgh shall tell you. And all these ye shall buy at the accustomed 
market, as you may deserve our thanks, and according to custom 
you shall give in your accounts at the Exchequer. Concerning 
pheasants (fasianis), or partridges, and other birds, which you shall 
seek for our use, you shall have them from the manor." 

7 



98 GOOD CHEER 

As in those days the rapacity and insolence of the 
royal purveyors, who never paid above half-price, 
and in many instances not at all, was a crying griev- 
ance in the land, it is worthy of note that Reginald is 
commanded to buy the various commodities, and 
to purchase them at the proper time and place — i.e., 
at fair prices. 

The next precept is addressed to the Sheriff of 
Bucks, and was, therefore, most probably sent by 
the hands of the purveyor as a voucher for the articles 
thus purchased ; it directs that 500 hens and 20 swine 
be bought in the accustomed market, and also that 
pheasants, partridges, and other birds be sent from 
the manor (probably the honour of Wallingford) . 
Then follows a precept to Matthew Mantell, to pur- 
chase 200 head of pork and 1,000 hens, then another 
" to John, the son of Hugh," apparently a keeper 
in one of the forests, to send to Windsor, brushwood, 
charcoal, torches, and cyphes, a sufficiency ; also 
500 hens, with pheasants and other birds ; and lastly, 
a precept addressed to the Sheriff of Canterbury to 
send 10,000 salt eels ! 

The charge is often brought against the old 
monkish historians that they are always given to 
exaggeration, and that their descriptions of great 
feasts are particularly open to this charge. Much 
argument has been expended to prove that provisions 
could not be obtained in the quantities which these 
chroniclers mention. One controversialist, shocked 
at the wholesale falsehoods of Matthew Paris, who 
records that on one occasion a repast consisting of 
thirty thousand dishes was served up in Westminster 
Hall, gravely informs us that unless the ancient hall 
had been much larger than the present, it could not, 
setting the guests and their att^idants out of the 
question, even have contained the dishes — forgetful 
that dinners usually consist of three or four courses, 



RIGHT ROYAL FEASTING 99 

and ignorant that among the luxurious Normans 
their feasts consisted of so many courses that the 
guests were detained for hours at the table while a 
constant succession of delicacies was placed before 
them. 

Also it is worth remembering that our ancestors 
had certain dining customs which made for an 
economy in the service of plates ; there was the 
chivalrous act of courtesy between two friends, even 
between knights and ladies, of eating from one 
plate ; and the ancient form of trencher, such as may 
still be seen at Winchester School, was hollow on 
both sides, one to be used for meat, and the other- 
for pudding. 

Now in the foregoing precepts, which are pre- 
served in the national records, we find that no less 
than 3,000 fowls, with a proportionate number of 
pheasants and partridges, 420 head of pork (with 
sheep and oxen, we must suppose, in proportion), and 
many thousands of eels and herrings, with 27 hogs- 
heads of wine to wash down all these solids, were all 
required for one feast. Truly we may be allowed to 
believe that thousands of dishes were employed to 
serve up this immense mass of provisions. 

The evidence of the Close Rolls is not to be dis- 
puted. A precept, as seen above, sometimes orders 
the table linen as well. Another royal requisition for 
the accompanying beverages distinguishes between 
French wines and Gascony wines — a trade distinction, 
not a geographical lapse. Then : " The King to the 
Sheriff of Kent. We direct that you buy for our use 
1,000 hens, 500 lambs and kids, and 1,000 pitchers, 
of which each shall contain one gallon, and 40 oxen." 
" To the Sheriff of Surrey. We direct that ye shall 
cause to be obtained for us, 1,000 hens." The 
Sheriff of Middlesex is directed also to send 1,000 
hens and the Sheriff of Essex 2,000 ! 



100 GOOD CHEER 

Here, then, are preparations for a feast — a mighty 
one 1 40 oxen, 500 lambs, 200 deer, 5,000 fowls, 
and 2,000 ells of linen for table-cloths ! Who, after 
reading these precepts, will impugn the testimony 
of the much -abused monk of St. Albans? Who will 
now accuse the old romance writers of mere 
romancing when they tell of the marvellous feasting 
at Arthur's coronation? 

From numerous other entries, although none of 
them are so full and so specific as those we have 
selected, we find that the royal feasts were not in- 
frequently on an almost equal scale of magnitude ; 
we find, further, that in regard to some articles the 
same quantity was always ordered. Towards the 
close of almost every year an order was given for 
100 lb. of almonds, 50 lb. of pepper, and 2 lb. of 
saffron ; these were therefore the accustomed quanti- 
ties to be used in the royal kitchen. In a precept 
towards the commencement of the Roll, directing 
Reginald de Cornhill to deliver his accounts at the 
Exchequer, we find the prices affixed to the various 
articles. Ginger was 2s. 6d. per pound, cinnamon 
the same, nutmegs los., and mace, of which this 
is the only entry, also los. ; the price of almonids 
varies from 253. to 30s. the 100 lb., and saffron, 
the produce of our own fields, is, most singularly, 
charged as high as cinnamon. 



IX 

BARONIAL PROFUSION 

Baronial hospitality — Its decline unpopular — A baronial hall — Its 
arrangement — The table ceremonial — ^The minstrels — Pens- 
hurst banqueting-hall — The " Forme of Cury " (1390) — Fifteenth- 
century cookery — " Mortrewes" — "Subtleties" — Some gorgeous 
examples — Royal dishes — Roasted peacock — Royal swan — 
" Cotagres " — The guests — Migratory households — ^Their com- 
missariat arrangements — An episcopal example — Franklin pro- 
fusion — And epicureanism — The "Glutton Mass" — Municipal 
profusion — Mealtimes — Luncheon or " Noon-tion " — Prolonged 
dinners. 

Coming to the fourteenth century, we find still abroad 
aJtnong the barons and the gentry that spirit of munifi- 
cent hospitality which meliorated the abject condition 
of the poor. An almost unlimited hospitality reigned 
in the palaces of the monarch and in the castles of 
the nobles ; and the Courts of the Kings of England 
in the twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth centuries 
were splendid to a degree of which modern days 
exhibit but a feeble resemblance. The household 
accounts of Richard II. show that every day. ten 
thousand persons sat down to meat at his charg'es, 
the royal kitchens serving out the messes to them 
by the hands of three hundred servitors. 

The old rhyming chronicler, Harding, says : — 

" Truly I heard Robert Ireleff say, 
Clerk of the Green Cloth, that to the household 
Came every day, for the most part alway 
Ten thousand folk, by his messes told. 
That followed the house, aye, as they would: 
And in the kitchen three hundred servitours, 
And in every office many occupiers. 
101 



102 GOOD CHEER 

The barons in general spent an excessive pro- 
portion of their large revenues and all the produce 
of their vast domains in the exercise of a lavish 
hospitality, the tables in their castle being ever open 
to strangers as freely as to their vassals and 
(followers. It was at the close of the fourteenth 
('century this open-handed hospitality began to decline. 
In the fifteenth century some of the barons, instead 
of dining in the great hall, sitting among their re- 
tainers according to ancient custom, adopted the 
practice of dining in private parlours with their fami- 
lies and intimate friends, an innovation which was 
extremely unpopular, and subjected the lord who 
followed the practice to much reproach. 

The halls of baronial mansions and large manor- 
houses were all arranged for the convenience of 
taking meals. At the lower end of the hall was a, 
passage, hidden by a screen, leading into the 
kitchen, from which smoking dishes were easily 
carried from broach or cauldron to the tables 
— on grand occasions, always in procession. An 
open drain ran through kitchen and scullery till 
the time of Henry III., when these cloacal conduits 
were first covered up and carried underground. 
The upper end of the hall was lighted by a large 
bay window ; here was the dais on which stood the 
lord's table, and close by an open cupboard which 
contained the family plate. Below the dais was the 
large table, extending nearly the length of the hall. 

The table ceremonial of a great noble (like 
Warwick the Kingmaker, for instance) was as 
picturesque as it was rigid in its observance. 

At the dinner hour — lo a.m. — the Earl appeared 
in his place, with his splendid retinue of secretary, 
councillors, marshall, steward, and master of the 
horse, his chaplain and choristers who officiated in 
his chapel and chanted the grace at his table, his 



BARONIAL PROFUSION 103 

constables, heralds, guards, pursuivants, pages, and 
trumpeters, and his jester. 

When all the guests and retainers were assembled, 
the master steward knocked loudly on the oaken 
board, the blessing was chanted, and every one seated 
himself according to his rank, the noble and gentle 
on the dais, and also at the central table till they 
came to the huge silver salt-cellar, the line of de- 
marcation below which the common people sat. Any 
caitiff who presumed to sit out of his order, stood 
a chance of being pelted by the company with the 
bones they had picked. 

Then came in the train of servants bearing the 
pewter dishes loaded with beef and mutton, fresh and 
salted, fowls and fish, pasties and loaves, wastel and 
simnel bread, the strange and numerous compounds 
which formed the dessert, and the flagons of wine, 
ale, and beer which were freely served to the com- 
pany by troops of waiters — to the higher guests in 
silver cups, to the lower tables in cups of pewter, 
horn, or wood. 

Beeves, sheep, pigs, geese, fowls, venison, and 
game were washed down with copious draughts of 
English ale or foreign wine. The extent of a baronial 
larder may be gauged by the stores recorded as 
stolen from one of the baronies of the elder Des- 
penser in the reign of Edward II.— 80 carcasses of 
beef, 600 carcasses of mu,tton, and 601 flitches of 
bacon. 

For three hours or more the company sat at this 
meal, now and then bursting into uproarious laughter 
at the jokes of the jester, or at the pranks of tumblers, 
jugglers and buffoons. Digestion was also aided 
by the minstrels who discoursed sweet music in the 
gallery. 

The English minstrel may be considered the lineal 
descendant of the ancient Scandinavian skald, or else^ 



104 GOOD CHEER 

maybe, of the British bard. He was at one time, 
certainly, held in high esteem according as his talent 
was able to stimulate his hearers to hardy deeds 
and great enterprises, or for his art in recounting 
for delivery to posterity the achievements of his noble 
patrons. Minstrels were allowed considerable free- 
dom of speech, so great was the regard in which 
they were held — the relationship between Richard 
Coeur de Lion and Blondel will illustrate this. The 
Normans called them " joculators " ; to the English 
they were known as "gleemen." ' 

A noble specimen of an old banqueting-hall in a 
baronial mansion of the time of Edward III. is still 
to be seen at Penshurst, in Kent, the seat of the 
Sidneys. 

The hall and its immense, strongly-jointed table 
exhibit a rudeness which belongs to a martial age 
when both gentle and simple revelled together, parted 
only by the salt. 

The floor is now of brick. The raised platform, 
or dais, at the west end, advances sixteen feet into 
the room. The width of the hall is about forty feet, 
and the length of it is fifty -four feet. On each 
side are tall Gothic windows, much of the tracery, 
of which has been some time knocked out and the 
openings plastered up. At the east end is a fine 
large window, with two smaller ones above it ; but 
the large window is, for the most part, hidden by the 
front of the music -gallery. In the centre of the floor 
an octagon space is marked out with a rim of stone, 
and within this space stands a massy old dog, or 
brand-iron, about a yard and a half wide, and the 
two upright ends three feet six inches high, having 
on their outer sides near the top the double broad 
arrow of the Sidney arms. The smoke from the fire 
which was laid on this jolly dog ascended and passed 
through the centre of the roof, which is high and of 



BARONIAL PROFUSION 105 

framed oak, and was adorned at the spring of the 
huge groined spars with grotesque projecting carved 
figures, or corbels, which are now taken down, having 
been considered in danger of falling, and are laid in 
the music -gallery. 

The heavy oak tables, which are of a some- 
what later period, remain. That on the dais, 
the lord's table, is six yards long and about one 
wide; and at this simple board (says William 
Howitt) no doubt Sir Philip and Algernon Sidney, 
the Countess of Pembroke, Saccharissa, Waller, Ben 
Jonson, and, though last mentioned, many a noble, 
and some crowned heads have often sat to dine. 
At one time the gentle and pious Edward VI., at 
another his more domineering and shrewd sister, 
Elizabeth, with her proud favourite, Leicester or 
Essex, Cecil or Warwick, all aUied to, or in habits 
of intimacy with, the lord of the house. James I., 
and Charles, then prince, no doubt took their seats 
here ; and the paintings in the gallery and rooms 
above will show us many a high-born beauty and 
celebrated noble and g'entleman who have graced 
this old hall with their presence, and made its rafters 
echo to their wit and merriment. 

The tables down the centre of the hall, at which' 
the yeomen retainers and servants sat, are seven 
yards long, and of a construction several degrees 
less in remove from the common trestle. 

At the lower end of the hall is a tall wainscot 
screen supporting the music gallery, the plainness and 
even rudeness of its fashion marking the earliness 
of its date. The space betwixt it and the end of 
the hall forms a passage from one court to the other, 
and serves also to conceal the entrances to the 
kitchen, larder, and other similar offices. 

On each side of the dais, as in our old colleg'fis, 
ascends a flight of one hundred stairs, one leading 



106 GOOD CHEER 

to the old apartments of the house, the other into 
a sort of little gallery, out of which the lord could 
look into the hall and call his wassailers to order 
if any unusual clamour or riot was going on, or 
call to any of his menials, bells not then being in use. 

On the right hand of the dais is the entrance into 
the cellar — an odd situation to our present fancy, 
but then, no doubt, thought very convenient for the 
butler to bring up the wine to the lord's table. Such 
was the arrangement of a baronial banqueting-hall 
in the olden time. 

To provide for the thousands of guests who fed 
daily at the table of Richard II., besides a good 
supply of fish, game, and poultry, it was necessary 
to slaughter daily twenty-eight oxen and three 
hundred sheep. 

Well might the head cook of this immense estab- 
lishment style his master " the best and royalist 
viander of all Christian kynges " in the vellum roll 
entitled " The Forme of Cury " compiled by him, 
and containing the authorised culinary recipes for 
the royal kitchen. This curious old manuscript, 
written in 1390, which gives a fairly complete insight 
into the cookery of the period, will be referred to 
in a subsequent chapter. 

Chaucer was an honoured courtier at the time 
these royal entertainments were at their highest pitch 
of extravagance. The poet's ideal householder had 
a table standing " redy covered alle the longe day." 
He makes his Canterbury Pilgrims take thought for 
their welfare on the journey : — 

"A Coke they hadden with hem for the nones [nonce]. 
To boile the chikenes and the marie bones, 
And poudre marchant, tart and galingale [sweet cypres]. 
Wei coude he knowe a draught of London ale. 
He coude roste, and sethe, and broile, and frie, 
Maken mortrewes, and wel bake a pie. 
For blanc manger that made he with the best." 



BARONIAL PROFUSION 107 

Two fifteenth-century cookery-books have been 
published by the English Text Society, from a study 
of which it is clear that the scientific preparation 
and dressing of food at that period were largely 
dominated by French influences. 

The French titles of the various dishes as 
they appear in English garb are at times not a 
little puzzling. For instance, at first sight one 
does not recognise lait ^ under let, froide as fryit, 
or saace in sauke. Herbelettes (small herbs) is 
almost unrecognisable as arbolettys. 

Our forefathers, possibly from having ' stronger 
stomachs, fortified by outdoor life, evidently liked 
their dishes strongly seasoned and piquant, as many 
of the recipes show. Pepper, ginger, cloves, garlic, 
cinnamon, galingale (" the aromatical root of the 
rush called cypresse "), vinegar, verjuice (the juice 
of crabs and sour apples), and wine — these appear 
constantly in dishes where we should little expiect 
them ; and even ale is frequently used in the cookery 
of the period. Ale, for instance, was comhionly 
mingled in the water in which fish was boiled. Milk 
and almond milk are common ingredients ; vinegar 
is used in brawn, and verjuice in meat custard. 

According to the more famous authority just men- 
tioned, " The Forme of Cury," the following was 
the recipe for a " mortrewes," a very favourite dish 
at that period, which was eaten with a spoon. 

" Take hens and pork and boil them together. Take the flesh of 
the hens and of the pork, and hew it small, and grind it all to dust. 
Take grated bread, and put thereto, and temper it with the broth, 
and mix it with the yolks of eggs, and cast thereon strong powder 
[a mixture of hot spices], boil it, and put therein powder of ginger, 
sugar, saffron, and salt ; then look that it be stiff, and flour it with 
ginger powder.'' 

The mortrewes, or mortress, was so called because 
the chief ingredients were pounded together in a 



108 GOOD CHEER 

mortar. A helpful glossary to " '|'he.Forme o f C ury^" 
was compiled by Dr. Pegge. 

In the ancient accounts of great English enter- 
tainments mention is invariably made of " sotelties/' 
These were devices in sugar and pastry, whicE^ not 
only added magnificence to the table, but often dis- 
played the witty invention of the cook. Thus when 
the conquering Henry V. brought home his French 
bride, Catherine, the soteltie at the first course of 
her coronation banquet represented a pelican sitting 
on its nest, and an image of St. Catherine, bearing 
a scroll on which appeared : " It is the King's wish 
that all his people shall be merry, and in this manner 
he publishes his intentions." 

At the second course the soteltie represented a 
panther with St. Catherine on her Wheel, and bore 
the motto, " The Queen, my child, shall meet with 
deserved renown on this island." The soteltie in 
the third course represented St. Catherine and 
angels, with the motto, "It is written, as is heard 
and seen, that by a sacred marriage war shall be 
terminated." 

All the courses at great feastings were accompanied 
and adorned by these sotelties (otherwise " subtle- 
ties "), figures in jellies, sweets, or confectioneries of 
some sort ; artistic mouldings of human or animal 
groups, or of buildings and scenery, often repre- 
senting some legend or historical event, and each 
having a label attached to it containing some wise or 
witty saying appropriate to the design. 

A gorgeous effort was made at a dinner given in 
1454 by Philip the Good, father of Charles the Bold 
of Burgundy. 

The tables, three in number, were covered with 
ponderous decorations that must have taxed the in- 
genuity, not only of cooks and confectioners, but of 
artificers in every department of mechanics. Here 



BARONIAL PROFUSION 109 

a fortress, surrounded' by walls and ditches, was 
attacked by a besieging army ; there a lake was to 
be seen, with castles and hamlets on its borfers, and 
boats sailing on its surface. On onei table wa^ a 
church with its lofty steeple and stained windows, and 
within it an organ and a choir of singers ; on another 
a mamtnoth pastry in which a. band of twenty -eight 
musicians were concealed. There were besides a 
forest filled with wild animals of every description, 
a prairie enamelled with flowers, and surrounded 
by huge rocks of sapphires and rubies, and a moun- 
tain with its sumtait covered with ice. Each course 
was composed of forty-four dishes, which were placed 
on chariots painted in gold and azure, and were 
moved along the tables by concealed machinery. In 
the intervals of the repast a variety, of uncouth 
monsters were introduced. 

It will be observed from this and other recipes, 
dating back to the Plantagenet period that cooks 
in those days were almost as anxious to please the 
eye as the palate. Many of their best dishes were 
adorned with gold and silver foil, or " flowered," 
as they tertaed it, with va;rious coloured powders. 
Among other methods of adornment, those generally 
used for the peacock and the swan are best known, as 
they invariably appeared at every royal feast. 

The peacock was skinned, stuffed with spices, and 
roasted. While the cooking was going on a cloth 
continually wetted was kept round the bird's head 
to save it from the action of the fire. When cooked 
it was allowed to cool, and then the skin was neatly 
sewn on again, the tail feathers spread out, the comb 
gilt, and a piece of cloth dipped in spirits of wine 
placed in its mouth, to be set on fire while it was 
being served up at table, which was accompanied by 
some ceremonial. The serving was performed by 
the ladies most distinguished for rank and beauty. 



110 GOOD CHEER 

following the dish in procession to the music of 
minstrels, who placed it in front of the guest most 
famed for courtesy, or, if it were after a tournament, 
the victorious knight, who took a chivalrous oath of 
valour or enterprise on its head. 

After the expenditure of all this art upon the 
peacock, its flesh was tough and tasteless. 

The royal swan was skewered in a sitting posture 
for roasting. The recipe ran : — 

" Make a stiff bed of paste about the thickness of your thumb, 
colour it green, comb it out, and it will look like a meadow full of 
grass. Take your swan and gild him over with gold ; then add a 
kind of loose flying cloak of vermilion colour within, and painted 
with arms without, then set the swan upon his bed, cover some part 
of him with the cloak, stick about small banners upon little sticks, 
the banners painted with the arms most agreeable to the persons 
seated at table." 

Vows of chivalry were also made upon this bird 
when served in this regal style. 

At a grand feast, when Edward I. knighted his 
eldest son on the eve of his Scottish expedition, 
two swans, gorgeously caparisoned, were introduced 
with a flourish of trumpets, upon which the King 
swore, in the presence of God and the ladies, that 
he would avenge the murder of John Comyn, and 
punish the perfidy of Robert Bruce. 

It may not be generally known that up till a 
century or so ago swans were prepared for the table 
in and around Norwich ; the young birds were put 
up to fatten in August, given as much barley as they 
would eat, and by November they were in prime con- 
dition. If kept longer they began to fall off, losing 
flesh and fat, and the meat becoming darker in 
colour. A present of a Norwich cygnet was always 
very carefully accompanied by the following printed 
formula : — 



BARONIAL PROFUSION 111 

" Take three pounds of beef, beat fine in a mortar, 
Put it into the swan — that is, when you've got her. 
Some pepper, salt, mace ; some nutmeg, an onion, 
Will heighten the flavour in gourmands' opinion. 
Then tie it up tight, with a small piece of tape, 
That the gravy and other things may not escape. 
A meal paste, rather stiff, should be laid on the breast. 
And some whited brown paper should cover the rest. 
Fifteen minutes at least, ere the swan you take down , 
Pull the paste off the bird, that the breast may get brown. 

The Gravy. 

To a gravy of beef good and strong I opine 
You'll be right if you add half a pint of port wine ; 
Pour this through the swan, yes, right through the belly, 
Then serve the whole up with some hot currant jelly." 

The Corporation of Norwich still maintain their 
ancient swannery at St. Helen's Swan Pit, and sell 
off a few of the fatted birds every Christmas, at two 
guineas each. 

Another medieval dish considered to rank amongst 
the daintiest of delicacies was called " cotagres," 
a name which was possibly derived from a corrup- 
tion of the word " cock," and " grees " a wild pig. 
The recipe for making it ran in this wise : — 

" Take a pig's liver and hew it small. Mix it with strong powder, 
saffron, salt, currants, and sugar. Then take a whole roasted cock, 
pull it to pieces, and cast him all together save the legs. Take a 
pig and skin him from the middle downwards, fill him full of the 
stuffing, and sew him up again. Put him into a pan and boil him 
well, and when well boiled put him on a spit and roast him well. 
Colour with yolks of eggs and saffron, and lay thereon foils of gold 
and silver, and serve forth." 

The capacious hall during one of these sumptuous 
entertainments was thronged with knights and dames 
in rich and gorgeous array. The extended table 
laboured under the weight of vast dishes, whose 
contents were garnished with flowers and adorned 



112 GOOD CHEER 

with gold. The etiquette observed was characterised 
by a grandeur and a pompous ceremonial ; a spirit 
of parade and romantic gallantry presided over the 
feasts of this age, which, though it may appear 
ridiculous to modern ideas, was no doubt well calcu- 
lated to produce good effects in nurturing a martial 
disposition among the nobility, but more so in 
preserving a sense of decorum and politeness in the 
presence of ladies, and so forming a check on the 
licentious manners of an unlettered age. Much of 
the ceremonial was directly devised towards a display 
of gallantry and to the formation of a correct 
demeanour towards the fair sex, while the splendour 
of fhese feasts was directed to'wards increasing a 
refinement of manners. The entire system was 
conceived in a high-flown spirit of romanticism ; 
thus, in the language of those days, " the peacock 
was the food of lovers and the meat of lords." The 
minstrel tuned his harp to feats of chivalry, or recited 
deeds of prowess in praise of some hero of romance, 
the noble company getting a thrill when, at certain 
periods of the festivities, warlike peals burst forth 
from the horns and other military instruments of 
the age — as when the trumpets heralded a procession, 
or " brayed out the triumph of a pledge." 

A great English noble had, besides his castle, 
several baronial halls, and manor-houses on his various 
estates, and often a house in London as well. 
Between these places he was constantly moving, and 
at every migration he carried in his impedimenta 
the chief of his domestic utensils, his brass pots, 
cooking utensils, and perhaps crockery. At each 
house the farm and the orchard provided his pro- 
visions ; it always contained cellars and spiceries 
well stored. He kept his own baker and breweress, 
and even made his own candles from the fat of the 
mutton and deer. 



BARONIAL PROFUSION 113 

On the great occasions upon which he sat in 
baronial state to receive the homage of his tenants, 
give audience to their petitions and complaints, and 
transact other seignorial business, the day was con- 
cluded by a great feast in the hall, at which the 
resources of the estate were seen in the profusion 
which graced the boards. The manot-house often 
enough was called " the hall " from the great apart- 
ment in which this took place. 

Besides the hall, one private chamber was allotted 
to the lord of the house. The cook had his kitchen, 
adjacent to the hall ; there was the sewery for the 
sewer, or officer who served and removed the dishes, 
and tasted them to prove their fitness ; and theile 
was the butlery. 

We get a glimpse of the domestic arrangements in 
such an establishment from the Household Roll of 
Richard de Swinfield, Bishop of Hereford (1290), 
who was constantly moving about from manor-house 
to manor-house. The baker always preceded the 
family ; his office was an important one, and baking - 
day was always Saturday. 

When the provender had been gathered from the 
different farms, the episcopal kitchen reeked with 
food, and all the necessaries of life produced on the 
estate. Due care was taken that the cellars were 
kept full of wine and the spiceries with foreign 
luxuries. The kitchen and ovens were put into 
working order, wood and charcoal were brought in 
from the forest, and also loads of thorns to crackle 
under the pots. 

Being a bishop's household, we find evidence in the 
Roll that all the days of abstinence were observed. 
Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday were days of 
abstinence. On these ajnd the seasonal fasts (as in 
Lent and on certain vigils) vast quantities of fish 
were consumed ; we read of " sticks of eels," twenty- 

8 



114 GOOD CHEER 

five on a stick ; of salmon, lampreys, and lampems 
from the Severn, and of trout in plenty during the 
season of the May-fly ; of fresh mackerel in Jime, 
and of gallons of oysters in the winter ; of dried 
cod brought from Aberdeen, and salted herrings 
kept in store. 

Gruel we find served in abimdance, and soup is 
mentioned. Allusion is made to the activity of the 
salting-tubs at Martinmas — salt was widely distri- 
buted from Droitwich in Worcestershire, or from 
one of the Cheshire " wiches," all over the kingdom, 
except to certain places round the coast, where salt 
was obtained by the evaporation of sea-water — for 
the pickling or curing of beeves, swine, sheep, and 
deer ; and we may even be permitted to infer the 
use of salted greens, from the scant supply of fresh 
vegetables recorded. The office of house steward 
was no sinecure in a baronial establishment of the 
olden times. 

Of the rank below, the franklin or country gentle- 
man, Chaucer picturesquely described the hospitality 
as so abundant that " it snewed in his hous of 
mete and drinke." In his hall stood his table, " redy 
covered alle the longe day " ; and instead of retiring 
to " the privy parlour," like the baron, to evade 
the duties of the festive hall, he was the Saint Julian 
"in his countree," the patron and host of all 
travellers. Abundance rather than quality was the 
distinguishing feature of his household provisions ; 
ale and wine, bread and baked meats, birds and 
game, and stewed fish, varied according to the 
season of the year ; but the franklin boasted no 
foreign dishes or cookery such as the nobles took 
pride in ; and instead of earthenware dishes and 
plates, the luxuries of the baronial halls, his family 
and honoured guests were accommodated with 
wooden trenchers and leathern jacks. He was the 



BARONIAL PROFUSION 115 

prototype of the " fine old English gentleman " whose 
patriotic fervour could conceive of no finer dish than 
" the roast beef of old England." 

Yet the English kitchen was not beyond French 
influence, for we note that Justice Shallow, not content 
with the ordinary plain English dishes, asks his cook 
for " pretty little tiny kickshaws," which was un- 
doubtedly a French concoction, " kickshaw " being 
a corruption of qaelque chose. 

Chaucer describes the franklin or country gentle- 
man of his day as " Epicurus's own son." 

" Withouteii bake mete never was his hous, 
Of fish and flesh, and that so plenteous 
It snewed in his hous of mete and drinke, 
Of alle daintees that men coud of thinke. 
Woe was his cook but if his sauce were 
Poinant and sharpe ; and redy all his gear." 

Shakespeare, too, took a most wholesome interest 
in food, and there are some curious old-time menus 
to be gathered from his plays. Shallow's orders for 
his cook before entertaining Falstaflf were : — 

"Some pigeons, Davy, a couple of short-legged hens, a joint of 
mutton, and any pretty little tiny kickshaws, tell William cook." 

While Mistress Page prepared for the Fat Knight 

" Hot venison pasty, plenty of wine, and pippins and cheese to 
come." 

The upper classes of medieval England were 
addicted to a gluttonous mode of living ; a fault 
not confined to the rich, for though the common 
people had but two or three meals a day, they fared 
abundantly if coarsely. This is illustrated by the 
custom of the " glutton Mass," which was cele- 
brated five times a year in honour of the Virgin 
Mary. Early in the morning the parishioners 
assembled in the church, laden with stores and pro- 



116 GOOD CHEER 

visions ; Mass was then said, after which the priests 
and the people began to feast, so that the church 
became a scene of rioting and intemperance, and 
neighbouring parishes often contended which should 
hold the greatest feast. 

With the rise of the municipalities, the same pro- 
fusion characterised civic entertainments. A Venetian 
travelling in England about the year 1500 records 
that he saw the Mayor's banquet at the Guildhall, 
where a thousand people were seated at table, and 
the meal lasted upwards of four hours. At the 
sheriff's dinner he also observed " the same profusion 
of victuals," and adds, " I noticed how punctiliously 
they sat in their order, and the extraordinary silence 
of every one." The stolid Englishman, intent on 
his meal, is no doubt sparing of his conversation. 
And the feasts of the metropolitan city in the 
days of Henry VII. were as magnificent as they 
generally were stupid. 

Gentlefolk breakfasted at seven off bread and beef, 
ale and wine. Dinner followed at ten and sometimes 
lasted till one. Supper generally came at four, and 
was as substantial as the breakfast ; then between 
eight and nine the " livery " or evening collation, 
consisting of bread, ale, and spiced wine was had, 
generally in bed. Mealtimes were altering in the 
fourteenth century. Here is an extract from the 
Journal of Elizabeth Woodville, who became the 
queen of Edward IV : — 

" 10 May 1451. 

Six o'clock (a.m.) Breakfasted. The buttock of beef rather too much 
boiled, and the ale a little the stalest. Memorandum : to 
tell the cook about the first fault, and to mend the second 
myself by tapping a fresh barrel directly. 

Ttn o'clock (a.m.) Went to dinner. . . . 

Seven o'clock (p.m.) Supper at the table. . . . The goose pie too much 
baked, and the loin of pork almost roasted to rags." 



BARONIAL PROFUSION 117 

The word " luncheon," which signifies a short 
meal between breakfast and dinner, has been con- 
fused with "nunchion," or literally " noontion," 
derived from "noon," the middle of the day. 
The Gentleman's Magazine for 1830 quotes an 
account for some London repairs made in the 
years 1422 and 1423, in which the workmen had 
certain allowances made to them for their " noun- 
chyns," " noonchyns," or " nonsenches " — the term ; 
is variously spelt, but it probably denotes a mid- 
day allowance of drink, such as the Normans called 1 
a "bever." The derivation of "lunch" is from 
" lump " or " hunch," signifying a handful of food, : 
such as a labourer would indulge in. 

Originally_a_''.hreak£ast.IL_w'as really a break in 
the long fast from overnight, a mere snack, a light 
meal like that still customary on the Continent, till 
the principal meal was served. Indeed, the French 
word " dinner," in its earliest use, meant to un-fast. 

A medieval tale very quaintly illustrates the un- 
conscionable time spent over their meals in those 
days by persons of rank' and wealth ; it runs in this 
wise : — 

" An Italian having a sute here in Englande to the Archbushoppe 
of Yorke, and commynge to Yorke, when one of the prebendaries 
there breake his breade, as they term it, and thereupon make a 
solemne longe diner, the whiche perhaps began at eleven, and 
continued well nigh till fower in the afternoone, at the whiche 
the bishoppe was. It fortuned that as they were sette, the Italian 
knockt at the gate, unto whom the porter, perceiving his errand, 
answered that my lord bishoppe was at diner. The Italian departed, 
and retourned betwixt twelve and one ; the porter answered they 
were yet at diner. He came againe at twoo of the clocke ; the 
porter told hym they had not half dined. He came at three a clocke 
unto whom the porter in a heate, answered never a worde, but 
churlishlie did shutte the gates upon him. Whereupon, others told 
the Italian that there was no speaking with my lorde almoste that 
dale, for the solemn diner sake. The gentilman Italian wonderyng 
much at suche a long sitting, and greatly greved because he could 



118 GOOD CHEER 

not then speake with the archbyshoppe's grace, departed straight 
towards London ; and leavyng the dispatche of his matters with a 
dere friend of his, topke his journey towards Italic. Three yeres 
after it happened that an Englishman came to Rome, with whom 
this Italian by chauuce fallying acquainted, asked him if he knewe 
the Archbishoppe of Yorke. The Englishman said he knewe him 
right well. ' I praye you tell me,' quoth the Italian, ' hath that Arch- 
bishoppe yet dined ? ' " 

The generous living and profuse hospitality of 
the old nobility and gentry of this country may afford 
pleasant reading, till reflection shows how ill-judged 
it all was. With such a large proportion of the 
community dependent upon the precarious bounty 
of the great, the result could not have been other 
than demoralising. 



X 
TABLE MANNERS OF TUDOR TIMES 

Fifteenth-century mealtimes — And fare — Regulations of a princely 
household— "Livery" and livery cupboards — Henry VIIL's 
banquets — ^Always honoured by the ladies — The entertainments 
— The luxuries — The wines — The commoner beverages — ^Acid 
wines diluted — And doctored — Elizabethan banquets — Bur- 
dened by affectation of learning — M3rthological pastry-cooks — 
Magiric magicians — Satirised by the dramatists — The royal 
table at Greenwich — Served with almost impious ceremonial — 
Elizabethan fare — And mealtimes — The evolution of the dining- 
table — The "table of degrees" — Credenza or sideboard— 
" Beefeaters." 

By the fifteenth and sixtee nth centuries the barbarous 
magnificence of the baronial establishment had given 
way to a more decorous system. The gross and 
boundless hospitality of former times, as it was 
dispensed to turbulent retainers, had passed with 
decaying feudalism. 

In the fifteenth century it was the custom in great 
families to partake of four meals in the course o^ 
the day, viz., breakfast, dinner, supper, and liver.y ..: 
the last of which consisted of delicate cakes, mulled 
wine, and spiced liquors of various kinds, served 
up in their bedchamber previous to their going 
to rest, which was usually between the hours of eight 
and nine, which may appear strange to our fashion- 
ables of the present day ; but when we consider 

U9 



120 GOOD CHEER 

they breakfasted at seven, dined at ten, and supped 
at four, the greater portion was not spent in sleep ; 
and such were the good effects of early rising, that 
an earl and his fair countess had for* breakfast " two 
loaves of bread, a quart of beer, a quart of wine, 
two pieces of salt fish, six baconed herrings, four 
white herrings, or a dish of sprats." 

Barclay, in his Ecloges, gives a fifteenth-century 
bill of fare in verse : — 

"What fishe is of savor swete and delicious, 
Rested or sodden in swete herbes or wine, 
Or fried in oyle, most saporous and fine — 

The pasties of a hart — 
The crane, the fesaunt, the peacocke, and curlewe. 
The patriche, plover, bittorn, and heronshewe, 
Seasoned so well in licquor redolent 
That the hall is full of pleasant smell and sent." 

The table of the private gentleman, and of the 
merchant, though inferior in profusion to that of 
the nobleman, was by no means scantily provided ; 
a meal ranged from four to six dishes of very good 
fare. 

Any luxury the yeoman enjoyed had to be supplied 
from his own farmyard. At Christmas he had pig 
and brawn " and mustard withal," goose and capon, 
cheese and apples, " with good cheere and plaie." 
His Lenten diet consisted mainly of red herrings and 
salt fish, which at Easter he gladly changed to veal 
and bacon. 

Shopkeepers, mechanics, and labourers breakfasted 
at eight, dined at noon, and supped at six, which were 
later hours than those of the nobility. " Supper " 
derived its name from being in early times a mere 
sop of bread dipped in broth or gravy. 

The households of the nobility were modelled on 
those of the King, and regulated with great precision 



TABLE MANNERS OF TUDOR TIMES 121 

and regularity. Here are a few " rules of the house " 
of " the righte excellent princesse Cicill, late mother 
unto the right noble prince Kinge Edward IV." 

" Upon eatynge dayes, at dynner by eleven of the clocke, a first 
dynner in the tyme of highe masse, for carvers, cupbearers, sewars, 
and offycers. 

" Upon fastinge dayes, by twelve of the clocke, and a later dynner 
for carvers and for wayters. 

" At supper upon eatynge dayes for carvers and offycers, at four of 
the clocke : my lady and the householde at five of the clocke, at 
supper. 

"When my lady is served of the second course, at dynner, at 
supper, the chamber is rewarded and the halle with breede and ale, 
after the discretyon of the usher. [That is, those whose different 
stations in the family entitle them to sit either in the chamber or 
the hall are at this time regaled with bread and ale.] Rewardes 
from the kytchen there is none, savinge to ladyes and gentlewomen ; 
to the head offycers if they be present ; to the deane of the chappelle, 
to the almoner, to the gentlemen ushers, to the carvers, cupbearers, 
and sewers, to the cofferer, to the clerke of the kytchen, and to the 
marshall. 

" There is none that dyneth in their offyces savinge only the cookes,, 
the scullery, the sawcerye, the porters, the baker, if they be occupied 
with bakeinge. 

" Upon Sondaye, Tuesdaye, and Thursdaye the household at dynner 
is served with beef e and mutton, and one roste ; at supper, leyched 
beefe [i.e., in shives] and mutton roste. 

" Uppon Mondaye and Wensdaye at dynner, on boyled beefe and 
mutton at supper, ut supra. 

" Upon fastinge dayes, salte fyshe, and two dishes of fresh fyshe ; 
if there come a principall feaste, it is served like unto the feaste 
honorablye. 

"If Monday or Wensdaye be hoUidaye, then is the household served 
with one roste, as in other dayes. 

" Upon Satterdaye at dynner, salt fyshe, one fresh fyshe, and butter : 
at supper salt fishe and egges. 

" Wyne daylie to the heade offycers when they be present, to the 
ladyes and gentlewomen, to the deane &c. [as before enumerated]. 

" Upon Frydaye is made paymente of all manner of freshe cates ; 
at every moneth ende is made paymente of all manner of other 
thinges. [' Gates,' or provisions opsonia, were the more delicate or 
more perishable foods, to be eaten with bread. A ' caterer ' was a 
purveyor of such viands.] 



122 GOOD CHEER 

" Proclamacyoii is made foure times a yeare about Berkamsted in 
market townes, to understande whether the purveyors, cators, and 
others, make true payments of my ladyes money, or not, &c. &c. 

" Breakfastes there be none, savinge onely the head offycers &c 
[as before enumerated]. 

"All other officers that must be at the bereavement [a slight 
morning repast], have their breakfaste together in the compting 
house, after the bereavements be made. 

" Lyvery of breade, ale, and fyre and candles is assigned . . . 
whole lyverie of all such thinges as is above specified, from the f easte 
of AUhallowe unto the feaste of the purification of our Ladye ; half 
lyverie of fire and candles unto Good Friday ; for then expireth the 
tyme of fyre and candle alsoe." 

This is a faithful picture of the actual house- 
hold economy of an English princess in the fifteenth 
century . 

As the supper began as early as four or five in 
the evening, and there was no other set meal till 
breakfast next morning — no meal at which guests 
would be served from the contents of the larder — 
" livery cupboards " were used for holding small 
quantities of food in the bedrooms, to which guests 
(also the officers and upper servants of the household) 
could obtain access and help themselves. 

By the term " livery " we are to understand an 
allowance of bread, beer, and candles (or tapers). 

The " livery cupboard " had folding doors and a 
lock, the front partly panelled, partly fitted with 
balusters, so as to let the air play through it and 
keep the food fresh. 

Court memoirs of the reign of Henry VHI. afford 
us a good insight into the fashionable pleasures of 
the time. This monarch's banquets were celebrated 
for their splendour and profusion, and the cost of 
some of them must have made considerable inroads 
on the royal purse. These royal entertainments 
began at six or seven in the evening, and ^mong 
the many costly viands were the best that the royal 



TABLE MANNERS OF TUDOR TIMES 123 

parks and forests could supply. To these Court 
convivialities it was always considered becoming and 
proper to admit the fair sex to a full participation 
—not merely to invite them to the tantalising position 
of spectators. The ladies of the gallant Henry's 
Court obtained a share in these, as in every other 
species of diversion ; at all feasts they were certainly 
regarded as essential member's of the company. At 
the palace of Wolsey, Cavendish describes them as 
sitting alternately with the gallants of the Court ; and 
at the feast of the Serjeants, held at Ely House in 
the twenty-third year of Henry's reign, Qjieen 
Catharine presided at the head of one table iand 
the King at another, in separate apartments. 

" The party being assembled, and the King and Queen seated in 
their chairs of state, it was the custom to begin the ceremonial of 
royal banquets by presenting hippocras and wafers to the sovereign 
and his consort. The dishes were then placed, and were frequently 
replenished, according to the quality and number of those assembled 
at the board ; but the courses were always numerous, and included 
a considerable number and variety of viands." 

It was about this period, that the substantial 
character of these repasts began to give place to a , 
greater degree of elegance in the choice of provisions . ; 
Except venison (sometimes eaten with furmienty), or 
pork stewed into broth, no butchers' meat was 
allowed to appear on table at the high-day festivals 
of the Court, or at the palaces of the nobles : but 
at city feasts, or at those purely ceremonial, the 
baron of beef, or even the spectacle of an entire 
carcass, was still permitted to gladden the eyes of 
the hungry. 

At the dinner before specified, which was declared 
to be little inferior to the feast of a coronation, it 
was deemed necessary to provide twenty-four great 
" beefes," one hundred fat " muttons," ninety-one 



124 GOOD CHEJER 

#.. 
pigs, one carcass of ah ox,, besides fourteen dozen of 
swan, and other varieties of the feathered and finny 
tribes, too numerous to be detailed. As the female 
members of a company are usually critics in the 
more delicate minutiae of the culinary- art, our 
ancestors did not fail still to intersperse 'their 
banquets with intricate confectione/y, in which their 
skill appears tb have been by no means despicable. 

The usual " subtleties,"* those skilful contrivances 
in confectionery of symbolical meanings and compli- 
mentary references, were still in vogue. 

Between the courses, and after the feast, the 
attendants presented to the company services of fruit, 
butter, spiced cakes, hard cheese, and sweetmeats ; 
and in these intervals the introduction of music and 
songs filled up the pauses in conversation ; and 
pageants, mummings, and dancing were sometimes 
contrived to vary the monotonous pleasures of the 
table. As to the beverages — 

" In enumerating the luxuries of the ancient banquet, it must not 
be supposed that wine, that requisite of convivial scenes, was wanting 
to complete its allurements. We have seen in what profusion the 
Rhenish wines were distributed to the multitudes who thronged 
to view the festivities of the Court, on various public occasions ; and 
it may easily be supposed how common the use of such an article 
must have been, to have authorised so liberal a distribution to the 
populace. The consumption of wine, although prodigious, appears, 
however, to have been regulated in the houses of our nobility 
and monarchs with scrupulous attention to economy, notwith- 
standing the low value of those most in general use. Henry VIII. 
bestowed considerable attention upon the article of wine, anrf by 
several statutes endeavoured to restrain the increased prices of 
' Malmsey, romaneis, or rumney, sack, and other sweet wines.' 

"The wines most in use at this period appear to have been 
Malmsey, Rhenish, and the wines of Gascony and of Guienne; 
which last were introduced into England at the time when part of 
the French dominions surrendered to the British arms : besides 
these, it has been decided that the champagne vintage was already 
in great repute ; and among others who estimated its productions, 
Henry VIII. is numbered, and is even stated to have held one of 



TABLE MANNERS OF TUDOR TIMES 125 

the vineyards' of Ay in his own hands ; '«ack, that still unexplained 
object of antiquarian inquiry, was also one of the luxuries of this age- 
"At coronations orljanquetsit was, however, invariably the custom 
to dilute the genuine wines; and to cover the harshness and acidity 
which they possessed by mixing them with honey or with spices. 
' Thus compounded,' says a riiodern writer on the subject, ' they 
passed" Onder the generic name of piments, because they were 
originally prepared by the pigmentarii or apothecaries, and they 
were ysed much in the s»ame manner as the liqueurs of modern times. 
The* varieties of piment chiefly introduced at the banquets of our 
kings were hippocras, so called from the bag terrhed ' Hippocrates' 
sleeve,' through which it was strained; and clarry, or clarre, a 
claret, or mixed wine, mingled with honey, and frequently drunk as 
a composing draught by persons who were on the point of 
retiring to rest. These beverages, especially hippocras, were deemed 
too expensive to be distributed on ordinary occasions, nor do they 
appear from the accounts given by our chroniclers to have been 
presented more than once during the feast. Metheglin or mead, 
brajf et, a composition of ale and honey, a very ancient drink in this 
country, and ale, were chiefly used for private persons and 
domestics." 

. The -royal banquets of Elizabeth's time differed 
widely from those of her predecessors, even from 
the honest and unrefined heartiness which had charac- 
terised those of her bluff and jovial sire. A pedantic 
affectation of learning pervaded the atmosphere ; and 
wild inventions of heathen mythology or classicah 
fable even got interwoven in the pageantry of heri 
f eastings. ' When she paid a visit to the house of 
one of her nobles, at the entering of the hall she 
was saluted by the " Penates " and conducted to 
her privy chamber by " Mercury." Even the pastry- 
cooks of the (ime became expert mythologists . 

At dinner select transformations of Ovid's Meta- 
morphoses were exhibited in confectionery. The 
icing of an immense " plomb-cake " would be 
embossed with a delicious basso-relievo of the Fall 
of Troy. There was no end to the fooleries of this 
description — ^most of them foreign to the subject 
here under consideration. 



126 GOOD CHEER 

This kind of extravagance is satirised by the 
leading dramatists of the timfe, as thus Beaumont 
and Fletcher : — 

" I'll make you pigs speak French at table, and a fat swan 
Come sailing out of England with a challenge ; 
I'll make you a dish of calves' feet dance the canaries, 
And a consort of cramm'd capons fiddle to 'em, 
A calf's head speak an oracle, and a dozen of larks 
Rise from the dish and sing all supper-time. 
'Tis nothing, boys. I've framed a fortification 
Out of rye-paste which is impregnable. 
And against that, for two long hours together, 
Two dozen of marrow-bones shall play continually. 
For fish, I'll make you a standing lake of white-broth. 
And pikes come plowing up the plums before them : 
Arion on a dolphin, playing Lachrymae ; 
And brave king herring with his oil and onion 
Crown'd with a lemon peel, his way prepared 
With his strong guard of pilchers, 
I'll bring you in the lady-loin-o'-veal. 
With the long love she bore the Prince of Orange : 
A full vine bending like an arch, and under 
The blown god Bacchus, sitting on a hogshead. 
His altar here ; before that, a plump vintner 
Kneeling, and offering incense to his deity. 
Which shall be only this, red sprats and pilchers." 

And then the marvels and magnificence of the 
magiric magicians : — 

"What do we read there of Hiarbas' banquet 
(The great gymnosophist), that had his butlers 
And carvers of pure gold waiting at table ? 
The images of Mercury, too, that spoke ? 
The wooden dove that flew ? A snake of brass 
That hissed ? And birds of silver that did sing ? " 

How easy to the proficient cook it all is, the 
dramatic dialogue proceeds to demonstrate. It was — 

" As easy as a man would roast an egg, 
If that be all. For, look you, gentlemen, 
Here stand my broths ; my finger slips a little. 



TABLE MANNERS OF TUDOR TIMES 127 

Down drops a dose ; I stir him with my ladle, 

And there's a dish for a duke, olla podrida ; 

Here stands a baked meat; he wants a little seasoning; 

A foolish mistake ! my spice-box, gentlemen. 

And put in some of this, the matter's ended : 

Dredge you a dish of plovers, there's the art on't ; 

Or in a galingale, a little does it." 

Ben Jonson, too, has been unable to resist the 
temptation to introduce to our notice the consummate 
culinary artist of the time :— 

" A master cook ! why, he is the man of men. 
For a professor ; he designs, he draws, 
He paints, he carves, he builds, he fortifies. 
Makes citadels of curious fowl and fish. 
Some he dry-ditches, some motes round with broths. 
Mounts marrow-bones, cuts fifty-angled custards. 
Rears bulwark pies ; and for his outer works, 
He raiseth ramparts of immortal crust. 
And teacheth all the tactics at one dinner — 
What ranks, what files, to put his dishes in, 
The whole art military ! Then he knows 
The influence of the stars upon his meats. 
And all their seasons, tempers, qualities ; 
And so to fit his relishes and sauces. 
He has nature in a pot 'bove all the chemists 
Or bare-breech'd brethren of the rosy cross. 
He is an architect, an engineer, 
A soldier, a physician, a philosopher, 
A general mathematician." 

A German account of the Court ceremonial of 
this great English princess, so far as it relates to 
the table, is worth quoting. It discloses the fact 
that the ceremonial at the royal table at Greenwich 
Palace was not only tedious, but that the frequent 
genuflexions and prostrations made on such occasions 
almost bordered on impiety. Let it not be forgotten 
that these ceremonies were performed in an empty 
room and to an empty table : — 

" A gentleman entered the room bearing a rod, and along with 
him another who had a table-cloth, which, after they had both 



128 GOOD CHEER 

kneeled three times, with the utmost veneration, he spread, 
upon the table, and after kneeling again, they both' retired. 
Then came two others, one with the rod again, the other with a 
salt-cellar, a plate and bread ; when they had kneeled, as the others 
had done, and placed what was brought upon the table, they too 
retired, with the same ceremonies performed by the first. 

"At last came an unmarried lady (we were told she was a 
countess) and along with her a married one, bearing a tasting knife ; 
the former was dressed in white silk, who, when she had prostrated 
herself three times in the most graceful manner, approached the 
table, and rubbed the plates with bread and salt, with as much care 
as if the Queen had been present ; when they had waited there a 
little time, the yeomen of the guard entered bareheaded cloathed in 
scarlet with a golden rose upon their backs, bringing in at each 
turn a course of four and twenty dishes, served in plate most of it 
gilt ; these dishes were received by a gentleman in the same order 
they were brought, and placed upon the table, while the lady taster 
gave to each of the guard a mouthful to eat, for fear of any poison. 
During the time that this guard, which consists of the tallest and 
stoutest men that can be found in all England, being carefully 
selected for this service, were bringing dinner, twelve trumpets 
and two kettle-drums made the hall ring for half-an-hour together. 
At the end of all this ceremonial, a number of unmarried ladies 
appeared who, with particular solemnity, lifted the meat off the 
table, and conveyed it into the Queen's inner and more private 
chamber, where, after she has chosen for herself, the rest goes to 
the ladies of the Court. The Queen sups and dines alone with very 
few attendants, and it is very seldom that anybody, foreigner or 
native, is admitted at that time, and then only at the intercession of 
somebody in power." 

This account was written by the German in Latin ; 
the translation is by Horace Walpole. 

Dr. Pegge, the learned antiquary, is of opinion 
that large dishes and great joints were not intro- 
duced till the time of Elizabeth. Game, large birds, 
and monstrous fish were often served up, and as. 
they had to be dismembered without the assistance 
of a fork the business was left entirely to the carver, 
and the guests never troubled themselves about it. 

We learn from Harrison's " Description of 
England," prefixed to Hollingshed, that eleven 



TABLE MANNERS OF TUDOR TIMES 129 

o'clock was the usual time for dinner during the . 
reign of Elizabeth :— 

" With us the nobilitie, gentrie, and students, doo ordinarilie go 
to dinner at eleven before noon, and to supper at five, or between 
five and six at afternoone." 

The evolution.- of 4;^he -dining -table is not without^ 
interest. Saxon tables were boards, sometimes 
hinged and folding, laid upon trestles, and could be 
stowed away easily after the dining in small, un- 
commodious houses, to make room for the ordinary 
avocations of the household. In the halls of the 
great this portability was equally convenient, and 

the " festive board " of such establishments seldom' 

exceeded thirty inches in breadth. 

Medieval tables were laid out for guests on the 
outer side only, the inner side being reserved for 
the service of the attendants. In ruder times guests 
may have sat thus, with their backs to the wall, 
in case of sudden attack during their unguarded ease. 

In some of the old chronicles we may read 
occasionally of tables made of precious metals, 
magnificent pieces of furniture to be left as legacies 
to succeeding generations, even in princely houses. . 

The banqueting-table of the Elizabethan period ! 
was a " standing table " on fixed legs, which were | 
often a pair of huge acorn-shaped pedestals sup- 
porting the top, and rising from a well-spread base, 
the whole strongly jointed and massively framed 
together. In the succeeding reign appeared the 
" drawing -table," so called because the top drew 
out to make it longer, and in which, as a matter 
of mechanical necessity, four of the large bulbous 
legs had to take the place of the two legs in the 
" table dormant," as the formier came to be called. 

In the ancient baropial hall, when lords and 
retainers dined together, the upper table was on a 

9 



130 GOOD CHEER 

dais, and in later times was lighted by an oriel 
window. The disappearance of the upper cross - 
table at a subsequent period is shown in the illustra- 
tion of the Duke of Alva's banquet. 

IWTien the custom arrived for a noble family to 
dine in a chamber apart from' the retainers in the 
hall much bad blood was engendered. The retainers 
resented it, as we have seen (p. 102). And so did 
the guests who were not asked into the privy dining"- 
room, but expected to dine in the great hall. 

Then whenever the lord condescended to join his 
people in the hall he had his table set in a; recess 
by the great window, with the " table of degrees " 
placed as a screen between him and the lower table, 
to secure him some amount of privacy. 

The " table of degrees " was a development of 
the it-rue " cupboard " ; it was a set of shelves in 
tiers receding to the top, for the display of plate 
— "a thing like stayres to set plate on." 

The number of shelves in the " table of degrees " 
came to be restricted with rigid etiquette among 
the upper class, which alone used it — " two steps for 
the wife of a banneret, three for a countess, four 
for a princess, and five for a queen." The pre- 
sumptuous iWolsey used a table of six stages. 

Sideboards (literally what their name implied) 
were at first slabs, or thick boards, placed at con- 
venient parts of the hall, for cutting up meat, or 
for resting plates and dishes. Others, more elaborate, 
with several steplike shelves, stood at the end of 
the room, opposite the high table, and contained 
the silver or other plate which displayed the family 
magnificence. 

At Hampton Court iWolsey's sideboard (or cup- 
board, as it was called, though it was essentially a 
" table of degrees ") used at banquets, was " as long 
as the chamber was in breadth, with sixe deskes 




FEAST GIVEN BY THE DUKE OF ALVA IN HONOUR OF THE BIRTH OF 
THE PRINCE OF ASTURIAS, PARIS, I707. 

From Lebault's " La Table et le Repas,'' 

(By permission of M. Lucien LaveurS) 



To face p, 130. 



TABLE MANNERS OF TUDOR TIMES 131 

[shelves] gamyshed with guilt plate, and the nether- 
most deske was gamyshed all with gold plate." 

There was an abundance of plate for use during 
meals, including " candlesticks of several branches," 
and consequently " this cupboard was barred round 
about," as strong as it was commodious. 

The credence of the Middle Ages was in the 
nature of a table and cupboard combined— in fact, 
a shallow cupboard elevated upon legs, with some- 
times a shelf underneath. It was used in the dining-* 
halls of noble and wealthy families to carve the 
meats upon, when the steward or carver would taste 
a portion off each joint before serving, an ominous 
but necessary precaution in days when poisoning was % 
a crime of not infrequent occurrence. The credence 
obtained its name from' its use for ecclesiastical 
purposes, similar pieces of furniture being used in 
churches upon which to place the cruets and other, 
vessels required in the Mass. The modem buffet, or«^ 
elaborated " sideboard," is the lineal descendant of 
the domestic credence, though perhaps the original 
buffet, or dressoir, was not a cupboard. The Yeomen 
of the Guard date from Tudor times, and their 
popular name. Beefeaters, is generally supposed to 
be a corruption of Buffetiers, conferred on them as 
the guardians of the., buffet . Dr. Smythe Palmer; 
remorsely upsets this etymology, and asserts that the 
impression conveyed by the popular name is correct — 
they were really " eaters of beef." This authority 
says the name Beefeaters was specifically applied to 
the Yeomen of the Guard in the seventeenth century 
because they were famous for their consumption of 
beef. 

In confirmation Dr. Smythe Palmer quotes 
Cowley : — 

" Chines of beef innumerable send me 
Or from the stomach of the Guard defend me." 



132 GOOD CHEER 

Sir William Davenant (1673) :— 

"Beafe that the queasie-stomach'd Guard would please." 

And Cart Wright (1651) :— 

"Of the eaters beef 
Those goodly Juments of the Guard would fight 
(As they eat beef) after six stone a day." 

In Froude's "History of England" (x. 312) is 
a reference to the "Queen's Beefs " in 1571. The 
argument is clinched by the dismissal of " buffetiers " 
as a non-existent word. 



XI 

A PERIOD OF CHANGE 

Causes of change-^The Reformation — Overseas enterprise — A re- 
stricted dietary — London street cries — Sugar and spice — And 
home-grown produce — City luxury — Pie Corner — Pudding Lane 
— " Cockayne," the land of cookery — The inn ordinary — English 
meat-eating — Reeking slaughter-houses — Salted meat — Scurvy 
a resultant — Prices current temp. Henry VIIL — Salad — Intro- 
duction of new vegetables — Cabbage — Kale — Beans — Artichoke 
— Potato — Leek — Cucumber — Fruits — Filbert — Plum — Apricot 
— Strawbery — Improved cherries, gooseberries, pears, and apples 
— The grape declines — The quince — Rhubarb as a botanical 
curiosity — Hartlib's project for a vast national orchard — De- 
cline of cookery — " Plain roast and boiled.'' 

During the Tudor period the cuHnary art of V^ 
England declined. The magnificence, as well as 
the munificence, of the medieval table passed away. 
Many causes contributed to the change, not the least 
among them being the disappearance of the display 
which had marked the festivities of feudalism, the 
spread of the narrower spirit ^^ Puritanism, and, 
perhaps, the break-up of many home-keeping tradi- 
tions, when the adventurous English could no longer 
resist the call of the sea. The overseas enterprise 
could not fail to introduce new articles of diet. 

iWe must be prepared to recognise some change 
in the dietary of the nation as the effect of the 
Reformation, even if it be merely to regard the 
abolition of a large number of fast days and 

133 



134 GOOD CHEER 

the decay of wakes and other Church-fostered orgies. 
Although the " stubble goose " of St. Martin is still 
eaten at Martinmas and the boar's head at Christmas, 
the Reformation did away with a curiously signi- 
ficant Easter dish, termed " a red herring riding 
away on horseback," typical of the termination of 
the long Lent fasting season — it was a herring cut 
into the figure of a man on horseback, placed in 
a dish of com salad. 

It was also the spread of religious toleration which 
removed the peculiar meaning of the mighty gammon 
of bacon formerly brought to table on Easter Day 
to commemorate the Resurrection, by expressing con- 
tempt and hatred of the Jews. Puritanism, a little 
later, exhibited a spirit that was less tolerant in the 
matter of the people's dietary : — 

" Plum broth was Popish, and mince-pie — 
Oh, that was flat idolatry." 

It is impossible to look back on the deprivations 
of our forefathers without a sentiment of pity. It 
is little more than three or four centuries since 
the Duchess of Northumberland usually made her 
breakfast on salt herrings. The manor of Adding- 
ton in Surrey is still held by the tenure of dressing 
a dish of soup for the King on his Coronation. 
Henry VIII. granted an estate in Leadenhall Street, 
London, " to mistress Cornewallies, widow, and her 
heires, in reward of fine puddings by her made, 
wherewith she had presented him." Such appraise- 
ment surely denotes soup and pudding of a particu- 
larly palatable and precious kind ; or at least they 
were no commonplace dishes. 

The breakfast of the Virgin Queen generally con- 
sisted of salt meat, bread, and strong ale. In her 
day vegetables were very little cultivated, and still 
less used. 



A PERIOD OF CHANGE 135 

The choice " vianders " of the fourteenth century ' 
paid epicurean prices for delicious morsels of the ' 
whale, the porpoise, the grampus, and the sea-wolf. 
In the British Museum is an ancient manuscript 
recipe for making " puddynge of porpoise," a dish 
served at the royal table as late as the time of 
Henry VIII. 

The ballad of " London Lyckpenny," written about 
1430, a century before the Reformation, mentions 
among the common provisions in the fifteenth century 
" stokfish, salt fische, whyt herring, rede herring, 
salt salmon, salt sturgeon, salt eels," &c. The eel 
was always a favourite fish in the monasteries. 

iWith the Tudor period came the stirring age of 
discovery ; and with the finding of new lands, and a 
freer intercommimication with old ones, came the 
discovery of new foodstuffs. The year 1520 is sup- 
posed to be that which is so famously remembered 
in the old rhymte : — 

"Turkeys, carp, hops, and beer 
Came into England all in one year." 

Turkeys came from Mexico, and the first one eaten '*- 
in France was at the marriaige of Charles IX. in 

1571- / 

In the fifteenth and early sixteenth century sugar -^ 

and spices had to be imported fromi Venice. As to 
prices, at the great Adriatic port in 1505, pepper 
was worth i8| gros the pound, and ginger from 
Alexandria 24 gros, 76 igros being equal to the ducat 
in Antwerp. Commerce and free communication had 
not as yet opened up the resources and markets of 
the world, so that in times of festivity a rude abun- 
dance, drawn mainly from home supplies and adjacent 
waters, had to suffice — ^the produce of the farmyard 
and the poultry-yard, the forest and the fen, the 
columbarium and the fish -stew. 



136 GOOD CHEER 

The street cries of London throw some little light 
on the food resources of the time, native and 
foreign : — 

" Then unto London I did me hye, 

Of all the land it beareth the pryse : 
'Hot pescodes!' one began to crye, 

Strabery type, and cherryes in the ryse ; 

One bad me come nere and by [buy] some spyce, 
Peper and safEorne they gan me bede. 
But for lack of mony I myght not spede. 

Then went I forth by London Stone, 

Throughout all Canwyke Streete, 
Drapers mutch cloth me offred anone ; 

Then comes me one cryed, ' Hot shepes feete ' ; 

One cryde ' Makerell,' ' Rysters grene/ an other gan greete ; 
One bad me by a hood to cover my head. 
But for want of mony I myght not be spede." 

John Lydgate gives us many curious particulars 
of a Londoner's diet in the fifteenth century : — 

"Cooks to me they took good intent 
And proffered me bread, with ale and wine. 
Ribs of beef, both fat and full fine." 



When we arrive at the Elizabethan period great 
changes are encountered, both in the dietary of the 
nation and in the practice of the culinary art. 

There was a rude plenty, both in town and country. 
Stowe, the aimalist, writing in 1598 of the cookshops 
in the City of London, says : " The cooks cried 
hot ribs of beef roasted, pies well baked, and other 
victuals. There was also a clattering of pewter pots, 
and harp, and pipe, and sawtrie." 

To the gluttonous habits of the Londoners, Pudding 
Lane and Pie Comer are said to owe their name, 
both being derived from eating'-houses ; and when 



A PERIOD OF CHANGE 137 

the Great Fire of London broke out at the one 
and terminated at the other there were not wanting 
superstitious folk to connect the visitation with the 
prevailing vice of the City— as the legend on the 
commemorative medal put it, Sic punit. 

By the year 1600 oranges and lemons were cried 
about the streets of London — imported, be it re- 
membered, from the land of our inveterate enemies, 
a triumph of trade over war. 

" Fine Sevil oranges, fine lemmans, fine ; 
Round, sound, and tender, inside and rine, 
One pin's prick their vertue shew : 
They've liquor by their weight, you may know. " 

Besides the noise of the " vianders," the streets 
resounded with the cries of hawkers, some of whom 
vended such things as cooking utensils : 

"Buy a fine toasting-fork for toast, 
Or fine spice-grater — tools for an hoast ; 
If these in winter be lacking, I say. 
Your guests will pack, your trade decay." 

A learned Londoner has sought to prove that 
" Cockayne " (Cockneyland) is neither more nor less 
than the land of cookery. He derives the name 
" Cockayne " from the Latin coquo, to cook, and 
quotes an old French authority : " Apres de coquo, 
koken fut forme en Flamen ; kocken en Allemand ; 
cucinare en Italian ; cozinere, cozer, en Espagnol ; 
ctiire en Frangais ; cook en Anglais." Quod erat 
demonstrandum . 

Pye Corner was the place where, as the old tale 
tuns, " pigges are al houres of the day on the stalls 
piping hot, and would crie (could they speak) ' Come 
eat me, eat me ! ' " Roast pig was a famous City 
dainty and was regularly sold at Bartholomew Fair, 



138 GOOD CHEER 

a " Bartlemy pig " being considered the ne plus 
ultra of savoury morsels. 

As the drama reflects the spirit of the age, it may 
be informative to recall the exclamation against City 
luxury which occurs in Massinger's play, " The City 
Madam " (1632) :— 

"Men may talk of country Christmas, and court gluttony, 
Their thirty pounds of butter'd eggs, their pies of carps' tongues. 
Their pheasants drench'd with ambergrise ; the carcasses 
Of three fat wethers brused with gravy, to 
Make sauce of a single peacock ; 
Three sucking pigs, served up in a dish, 
Took from a sow as soon as she had farrow'd, 
A fortnight fed with dates and muskadine. 
That stood my master in twenty marks apiece." 

The ordinary or inn dinner cost sixpence in 
Elizabeth's days, but by the time of George I. the 
price had risen to a shilling. At " Pontack's Head," 
a famous house in Abchurch Lane, there was in 
1 73 1 "a guinea ordinary," at which were served 
such delicacies as " a ragout of fatted snail " and 
" chickens not two hours from the shell." 

Many of the Elizabethan dramatists make mention 
of the " ordinary " ; for nearly every one of any 
distinction whatever made it a practice to dine at 
the tavern ordinary, or " table of the host," a term 
now commonly converted into table d'hote. 

It was really a midday meal then, to which guests 
took their own table napkins, and, a little later, their 
own forks. The introduction of forks was a change 
of such magnitude and far-reaching effects its 
adequate consideration can only be undertaken in 
a separate chapter. 

The streets of London at this time were " en- 
venomed by corrupt airs engendered by reason of the 
slaughter of beasts " ; and at last butchers were for- 



A PERIOD OF CHANGE 139 

bidden to do their slaughtering within the walls. 
Erasmus, who visited this country in 1509, coming 
from a land of cleanliness, comments on the close 
air of English houses, and expresses the opinion that 
" it would contribute to health if the people ate and 
drank less, and lived on fresh rather than salted 
meat." 

This presents the real aspect of the case. The 
" roasted rumps " which became an English tr3.di- 
tion appeared only occasionally — at what were 
actually '-the festive boards." 

Fresh meat was available only in certain months 
of the year ; for winter and spring use carcasses 
were salted down. Vegetables were scarce, and few 
kinds of them were known. The potato had not 
yet been introduced. 

In the medieval period the rotation of crops was 
not practised, and artificial grasses were unknown. 
As there was no winter provender for the cattle, 
every Martinmas great numbers of beeves, sheep, 
swine, and even deer, were slaughtered and salted 
for use as winter food. The use of so much salted 
meat was one of the causes of scurvy, than which 
no distemper was more common, obstinate, and fatal, 
down, to the beginning of the eighteenth century. It 
was not till the introduction of artificial grasses from 
France that much live-stock could be kept through 
the winter. 

In the sixteenth century the fare of the humbler 
classes in England was necessarily coarse and 
homely. The English were always a meat-eating 
nation — the price of meat was then relatively low — 
far more than the French, the Scotch^ or the Irish. 
To this historic fact has sometimes been ascribed 
their prowess and vigour. 

At a feast given at Ely House in the reign of 
Henry VIII. (it was the month of November,_ij^i) 



140 



GOOD CHEER 



Stow particularises the following articles and their 
prices then prevailing : — 



Great beeves, from the shambles 

One carcass of an ox 

Fat mutton 

Great veals 

Porks 

Pigs 

Capons of Greece 

Capons of Kent 

Capons, coarse 

Cocks of grouse 

Pullets, the best 

Other pullets 

Pigeons 

Swans 

Larks 



s. d. 

each 26 8 

,, 24 o 

2 10 

„ 4 8 

.. 3 

o 

,, I 

,. I 

I 

,. o 

„ o 

o 

per dozen o 10 

... (no price) 

per dozen o 10 



8 
6 
8 
o 
o 
8 

2i 

2 



The same authority mentions the price of milk. 
He says he fetched many a halfpennyworth of milk 
from a farm in Goodman Fields where they " had 
thirty or forty kine to the pail," and never had 
less than three ale pints in the summer, nor less 
than one ale quart in the winter, " hot from the 
kine." 

' Not the least beneficent change was the accession 
of new fruits and vegetables to the foodstuffs of the 
country. 

Gilbert Kymer, a fifteenth-century writer, can 
enumerate, besides a few wild plants, only the fol- 
lowing products of an English kitchen garden of that 
period : cabbage, lettuce, spinach, beetroot, trefoil, 
bugloss, borage, celery, smallage (wild celery), purs- 
laine, fennel, thyme, hyssop, parsley, mint, a species 
of turnip, and a small white onion. According to 
him, all these vegetables were boiled with meat. 
He observes that some were eaten raw, in spring 
and summer, with olive-oil and spices, but ques- 



A PERIOD OF CHANGE 141 

tions the propriety of the custom. This is the 
earliest notice extant of the use of salads in England. 

The better kinds of cabbages were introduced from 
Holland by Sir Arthur Ashley, of Dorset, about 1 5 1 o, 
and were first taken into Scotland by Cromwell's 
soldiers. The cauliflower was first brought into 
England from Cyprus about 1603, and broccoli from 
Italy in the previous century. 

According to Verstegan, that which we call cole- 
wort was the " greatest potwurt in time long past 
that our ancestors used, and the broth made there- 
with was thereof called kele ; for before we bor- 
rowed from the French the name of pottage, and the 
name of herbe, the one in our owne language was 
called kele, and the other wurt ; and as this kele- 
wurt or potage-herbe was the chiefe winter-wurt for 
the sustenance of the husbandman, so was it the first 
hearbe that in this moneth began to yeeld out whole- 
some young sprouts, and consequently gave there- 
unto the name of sprout-kele." The " kele " here 
mentioned is the well-known kale of the cabbage- 
tribe. 

The finer kinds of bean were introduced into thisl 
country in the reign of Henry VIII. French beans 
originally came from India. The Jerusalem arti- 
choke is a native of Peru, and was called " girasole " 
by the Italians who introduced it, because it re- 
sembled the sunflower, or " girasole," of which 
name " Jerusalem " is merely a ridiculous corruption. 
The artichoke engrosses the attention of the 
celebrated " Mrs. Glasse," whose cookery-book con- 
tains more ways of dressing the vegetable than any 
other ; it is, in fact, her faithful companion of the 
kitchen throughout every season of the year. 

It was in 1565 that Sir John Hawkins introduced 
the potatoe into Ireland, and twenty years later Sir 
Walter Raleigh brought it into England, where in 



142 GOOD CHEER 

time it became a common food. In " .Waverley," 
the action of which is supposed to take place about 
1745, Sir Walter Scott describes the cottages of 
TuUy-Veolan as having gardens filled with gigantic 
plants of kale or colewort, where " the now " — ^he 
was writing in 1804 — "universal potato" was un- 
known. 

The leek had been known for centuries — certainly 
in Wales if not in England — ^but the carrot was a 
new acquisition about this time. Many pot-herbs 
had been cultivated, "but saladings were now added 
to the English kitchen garden. The cucumber, which 
had been shown as a curiosity in the fourteenth 
century, began to be cultivated by English gardeners 
in 1538. Nowadays — owing chiefly to the small con- 
sumption in England — it is actually exported to the 
Continent. 

An English fruit garden in 161 2 is described in 
the following contemporary lines : — 

" The Persian Peach and fruitful Quince 
And there the forward Almond grew 

With Cherries known no long time since; 
The Winter Warden, orchard's pride ; 

The Philibert that loves the vale 
And red Queen Apples, so invide 

Of school-boies, passing by the pale." 

The writer imagines that the filbert was so called 
because it was first cultivated by Philibert, King of 
France ; he also opines, which is more probable, 
'that the Queen apple was so named in compliment to 
Queen Elizabeth. Of the former a more fanciful 
derivation is that of " full-beard," because of the 
shape assumed by the dried husk I 

Many of the fruits now in use were introduced 
into this country between 1500 and 1600, the plum 
about 1520, the apricot 1540, and the peach about 



A PERIOD OF CHANGE 143 

1560. The apricot when first drawn from America 
was not larger than a damson. Better varieties of 
the strawberry came at different periods, one from 
Flanders in 1530 and another from the Levant in 
1724. 

Although strawberries have been grown in England 
from early times, it was iWolsey who taught us how 
to eat strawberries and cream. The strawberry has 
been vastly improved since his time, and of this 
luscious fruit a connoisseur has observed, '■ Doubtless 
the Almighty could maJce a finer berry — but He never 
did.«' 

Flanders in 1540 also sent us finer cherries and 
better gooseberries. Later, America returned to us 
improved varieties or stronger stock of English fruits 
— ^the black' walnut 1620, the Virginian raspberry 
about 1660, the Canadian currant 1705, and the 
American costard apple in 1736. 

English varieties of apples, pears, and goose- 
berries had long been cultivated, while the straw- 
berry and the raspberry had only grown wild. The 
whole race of cherry-trees introduced into Britain 
by the Romans was lost in the Saxon period ; it 
was the gardener of Henry VIII. who re-introduced 
the cherry and encouraged its cultivation. The grape 
had been cultivated for wine-making by the Saxons, 
but the industry became extinct centuries ago, 
declining as the importation of French and Spanish 
wines advanced. 

The quince had been brought into England from 
Austria prior to 1573. Real marmalade, it should be 
remembered, is made from the quince, called by the 
Portuguese marmelo, and when made into jam 
marmelado. Quinces and oranges were often cooked 
together ; and there was such a preserve as 
" orangdow." 

Rhubarb was brought into this country also in 



144 GOOD CHEER 

1573 from the Volga, but for two centuries it re- 
mained a gardener's curiosity, so that its use here 
as an article of food is of comparatively recent origin . 
In 1 8 10, when a Deptford market gardener sent 
a few sticks into London, he was unable to find 
customers for it. However, the use and cultivation 
of the plant made rapid progress from that time 
forward. 

After the devastation of the country by the Civil 
Wars, the spirit of horticulture spread itself abroad, 
an enthusiast in the movement being Samuel Hartlib, 
to whom Milton addressed his tract on education. 
The public good this man effected was rewarded 
by Cromwell with a pension. Hartlib had a great 
design for the universal planting of fruit-trees and 
the appropriation of all commons and wastelands 
for this great national project. He argued that the 
fruit would be a proper provision of food for the 
natural taste, and that the child and the poor man 
would prefer it to any other food. 

"The poor man's child invited was to dine, 
With flesh of oxen, sheep, and fatted swine 
(Far better cheer than' he at home could find), 
And yet this child to stay had little minde, 
You have, quoth he, no apple, froise [orange fritters], 

nor pie. 
Stewed pears, with bread and milk, and walnuts by." 

The scheme came to nothing, and, after the Restora- 
tion, Hartlib was allowed to die in poverty and 
neglect. 

If the range of foodstuffs was now becoming wider, 
the art of cookery, it has to be confessed, declined 
rapidly in England after the Elizabethan period. By 
the time of the Revolution coarse food had almost 
entirely supplanted the delicate dishes of the 
medieval cooks. By the time of the Georges the 
culinary art had sunk as low as the apple-dumpling, 



A PERIOD OF CHANGE 145 

the making of which so puzzled the thick head of 
" Farmer " George, at whom Peter Pindar (other- 
wise Dr. John iWolcot) poked such fun. 

"'How?' cried the staring monarch, with a grin — 
'How the devil got the apple in?'" 

Plain roast and boiled fought their way through 
all the changes, and still remain the favourites of 
the common people. 

With the advance of civilisation (observes a recent 
writer) the change in mealtimes was one of increas- 
ing lateness. The first meal, as a matter of course, 
gave the keynote to the whole arrangement. The 
Oxford Dictionary gives 1463 as the date of the first 
mention of " breakfast." Up to a century, a:go it 
was a trifling meal, a mere snack of bread 
washed down by a draught of ale or wine, 
actually a simple break in the fast since supper, 
and not a solid preparation for the day's work 
in the way of bacon and eggs, or dishes sub- 
stantial enough to need forks, had they possessed 
them. In the Northumberland House-book' for 15 12 
it is set forth that the Percy family rose at six a.m., 
had its morning draught at seven, dined at ten, and 
supped at four in the afternoon. The gates were 
shut at nine, and no further ingress or egress per- 
mitted- 

Further progress in civilisation was marked by 
putting back the dinner yet another hour. Eliza- 
beth and her Court rose at six, drank their 
morning ale at seven, and dined at eleven. The 
theatres opened at one p.m., and the performance was 
over in time for supper between five and six. 
Curiously enough, the workers kept later hours than 
the rich. Merchants dined at noon, and supped at 
six ; artisans and husb^dmen waited for supper 
until seven or eight o'clock, when their day's work 

10 



146 GOOD CHEER 

was done. At Oxford and Cambridge the students 
dined at eleven. 

Cromwell surpassed all previous rulers of England 
by dining after noon, at half-past one. But hours 
were still primitively early, according to modern 
ideas, even in the luxurious age of Charles II. Mer- 
chants were at their desks by six or seven, for Pepys 
was not alone in getting down to his office by four 
or five o'clock. The House of Commons met at 
nine, and its business was over soon after noon. 
The theatres opened at three, and sent their audiences 
away to supper at seven. 

Under Anne the fashionable world did not bestir 
itself before nine, from which hour to eleven great 
men held their levees. Dinner was at two o'clock, 
and the gentlemen tarried at the table until six, 
whence they went to the play. The day was grow- 
ing rapidly later. Five o'clock was the fashionable 
hour for dinner in 1750, though the King remained 
faithful to his practice of dining at two. The post- 
ponement of dinner until well after noon brought 
breakfast into prominence. At the best it had 
hitherto been a draught of ale — ^afterwards tea or 
chocolate — and bread and butter and radishes. To- 
wards the end of the eighteenth century breakfast 
parties began to be given at noon, and the pro- 
vision of fish and cold meats at this meal created 
great surprise. 



XII 

INTRODUCTION OF FORKS 

Joints served on the spit — " Trencher bread " — The " Carving 
Squire " — Putting hands in the dish — Italian origin of the fork 
— The fork an affectation in England — Coryate derided as 
" Furcif er " — Literary allusions to the fork — Forks used in other 
countries — Chinese chopsticks — Souvenir forks of Charles I. — 
Biblical "forks"— The "forks" of the ancients— Bread 
" broken," not cut — " Fingers before forks " — Bidents and 
tridents — Rare gold and silver forks of Middle Ages — Forks 
forbidden in convents — Where forks are still a rarity. 

Here it is necessary that we should notice an innova- 
tion in the equipment and etiquette of the table, which 
amounted almost to a revolution in the art of dining. 
The introduction of table forks, not only had an effect 
upon table manners, but it also influenced the art of 
cookery more than one generally realises. 

All through the centuries of civilisation, even up 
till the mighty days of Elizabeth and the rnagnificent 
era of Shakespeare, roast meat was brought to table 
on the spit, a servant holding it while the guest 
cut off a piece, which was eaten with the fingers, 
often, indeed, without a plate, for in the medieval 
directions for laying a table we almost invariably 
find trencher -pieces of bread miintioned— thick' slices 
or slabs of bread on which tJie person could lay, 
down his portion of meat. 

At the splendid Court of Burgundy in the fifteenth 

century the loaves were made round ; they were cut 

m 



148 GOOD CHEER 

in slices which were piled by the side of the carver, 
or Ecuyer Tranchant (Cutting Squire). He had a 
pointed carving-knife and a skewer of drawn silver 
or gold, which he stuck into the joint ; having cut 
off a slice, he took it on the point of the knife and 
placed it on a slice of bread, which was served 
to the guest. 

A leg or a haunch of venison had a napkin (or, 
later, a piece of paper) wrapped round the shank, 
which the carver took hold of when he carved the 
joint. Old-fashioned pointed carving knives are still 
to be met with. 

A dinner table is thus described by Barclay in his 
" Ecloges," published in 1570: — 

" If the dish be pleasant, either fleshe or fishe. 
Ten hands at once swarm in the dishe ; 
And if it be fleshe ten knives shalt thou see, 
Mangling the fleshe, and in the platter flee. 
To put there thy handes, in peril without fail 
Without a gauntlet, or else a glove of mail." 

In the sixteenth century there was sometimes used 
a fork -spoon — a spoon sawn into long teeth so as 
in some degree to unite the two purposes of the 
flesh -fork and the spoon. By some this has been 
thought to indicate the origin of the table -fork. But 
the real source of our iadebtedness is gleaned from 
the pages of a quaint old work, entitled " Crudities," 
written in 1 6 1 1 by an English traveller of some 
renown in his day, one Thomas Coryate. 

" I observed " (he writes) " a custom in all those 
Italian cities through which I passed, that is not 
used in any other country that I saw in my travels, 
neither do I think that any other nation of Christen- 
dom doth use it, but dnly Italy." 

And what was this unique custom which Coryate 
had not found in Fraijice, or Germany, or Switzerland, 
or, in any other of the countries he had visited? 



INTRODUCTION OF FORKS 149 

It was simply the use of forks at table. He gives 
some details of this prandial phenomenon : " The 
Italian, and also most strangers that are commorant 
in Italy do always at their meals use a little fork 
when they cut their meat. For while with their 
knife, which they hold in one hand, they cut the meat 
out of the dish, they fasten their fork which they 
hold in their other hand, upon the same dish ; so 
that whatsoever he be that, sitting in the company 
of any others at meal, should unadvisedly touch the 
dish of meat with his fingers from which all at 
the table do eat, he will give occasion of offence unto 
the company, as having transgressed the laws of 
good manners, insomuch that for his error he shall 
be at least brow-beaten, if not reprehended in words. 
This form of feeding, I understand, is generally used 
in all places in Italy ; their forks being for the 
most part made of iron or steel, and some of silver, 
but those are used only be gentlemen. And the 
reason of this curiosity is " (the observant Coryate 
goes on to say) " because the Italian cannot by any 
means endure to have his dish touched with fingers, 
seeing all men's fingers are not alike clean." 

When Thomas Coryate got back home he forthwith 
resolved to naturalise this Italian exotic by planting 
it on his own table. But when he had done so be 
was not liked for his affectation of superiority ; his 
friends, one and all, and every one who knew him, 
dubbed him " Furcifer " for his pains. Instead of 
being adm,ired and copied he was looked upon as 
" that miserable fork-bearer," and disliked accord- 
ingly. Even the learned and pedantic King James 
did not take kindly to the innovation of Furciferous 
Thomas. The records of royal fare during that illus- 
trious reign are plentiful enough, and we can imagine 
King Jamie and his friends partaking of each suc- 
cessive item' of a royal repast, and using fingers, or 



150 GOOD CHEER 

rather finger and thumb, to each and every one of 
them — disposing first of venison pasty and then of 
Paris pie ; anon of " rost kidd wholl," and -' boyld 
carpe hot," or else " chines of sahnon boyld " ; then 
" rost mutton with oysters," or " sowseed pigg," fol- 
lowed perhaps by " sweet breade pie," and perhaps 
" marled smelts," afterwards launching into an ocean 
of sweets in the shape' of quince pie, candied tart, 
musk-pear paste, orange comfit, almond leach, and 
other goodies, all amid much smacking of lips an;d 
loud clattering of knives — ^but no sign of forks. 

Coryate had obtained his fork equipment from 
a friend, " one Mr. Lawrence Whitaker, who in his 
merry humour doubted not to call me at table 
Furcifer, only for using a fork at feeding." 

In explanation of the nickname being an object - 
tionable one, it may be observed that " Furcifer " 
literally meant a slave, who, for punishment of some 
fault, was made to carry a heavy wooden fork or 
gallows upon his neck through the city, with his 
hands tied to it ; hence the word came to signify 
generally a rogue, a villain. 

Even his intimate friend, it will be seen, derided 
Coryate as a finical coxcomb for his affectation of 
what Englishmen regarded as an effeminate iimo- 
vation. 

On the stage the " fork-carving foreigner " came 
in for ridicule from Beaumont and Fletcher ; Ben 
Jonson also flouts him' ; as thus, in " The Devil's an 
Ass," Meercraft says to Gilthead and Sledge : — 

" Have I deserved this from you ? for all 
My pains at Court, to get you each a patent. 
Gilthead. For what? 

Meercraft. . . . Upon my project of the forks. 
Sledge. Forks ! What be they ? 
Meercraft. . . . The laudable use of forks, 
Brought into custom here as they are in Italy 
To the sparing of napkins." 



INTRODUCTION OF FORKS 151 

Another comment on the new fashion was 
thoroughly, typical of English prejudice. It was, 
" Who would make hay of his food, and pitch it 
into his mouth with a fork? " 

The use of forks at table was long considererd 
a superfluous luxury. They were still an object of 
waggery in 1647, when John Fletcher's "Queen of 
Corinth " was published, where the Tutor says : — 

"Your T beard is the fashion 
And twifold doth express th' enamoured courtier 
As full as your fork-carving traveller." 

Five years later, namely in 1652, which is allowing 
more than forty years for Coryate's hobby to amble 
into notice, Heylin in his " Cosmography " alludes 
to forks as a comparative rarity. Describing the 
Chinese use of two ivory sticks with a dexterityi 
which did not foul their linen, he compares the 
accomplishment to " the use of silver forks with us, 
by some of our spruce gallants taken up of late." 

In Ben Jonson's " Volpone " Sir Poletick Would- 
be gives this advice to Peregrine : — 

"Then must you learn the use 
And handling of your silver forks at meals, 
The metal of your glass (these are main matters 
With your Italian)." 

The use of forks began in Italy about the end I 
of the fifteenth century ; and if Thomas Coryate 
did not see them in the other countries through which 
he passed, we are not to believe that they were not 
in use elsewhere. From Beckmann's " History of 
Inventions " we learn that forks were used in the . 
French Court at the close of the sixteenth century, | 
and that they had found their way into Sweden. ' 

A traveller who visited the Court of Hungary 
towards the close of the fifteenth century says that 
" at meals each person laid hold of the meat with 



152 GOOD CHEER 

his fingers, whence ensued an unpl^asing assimilation 
of the said fingers to the colour of a duck's foot, on 
account of the much saffron then put into the sauces 
and soup." This writer, who evidently knew the use 
of forks, compliments the King (Matthias Corvinus) 
on his " kingly knack of eating without a fork, keep- 
ing up the table-talk, and never smearing the 
clothes." 

Although the table fork' has become to us 
almost a part of the human hand, the whole of 
the civilised world is not a slave toi it. The 
wealthy Chinese furnish their table with cloths of 
the costliest silk, but they do not use plates, knives, 
or forks. Each person at table has a bowl of fopd 
and a pair of little ivory or ebony chopsticks, with 
which every one, from the oldest to the youngest, is 
able to make the most dexterous and effective play. 
But even if they could not, good soup may be 
swallowed from a bowl. Forks and spoons are ex- 
cellent implements ; but fingers, as the proverb 
reminds us, took precedence with our unsophisti- 
cated ancestors ; his sacred Majesty Charles XII. of 
Sweden was probably not the only monarch who 
buttered his bread with his royal thumb. 

As showing the growing use of table cutlery among 
the upper classes in the Cromwellian period, it may 
be mentioned that one Charles Rivet made a con- 
siderable sum by selling knives and forks with bronze 
handles. He pretended that the bronze was that 
which had constituted the statue of Charles I., cast 
in 1633, before the war had broken out. He was 
a brazier with a speculative turn of mind, who hajd 
bought the statue as " scrap " from' the Parliament, 
and pretended to have destroyed it — as a matter 
of fact, it is the one which still adorns Charing Cross. 
All the same, his " souvenir " forks were eagerly 
bought by devoted loyalists. 



INTRODUCTION OP FORKS 153 

It is worth remembering' that good specimens of 
old Bow china are to be met with in the form of 
knife and fork handles — a fine, hard, artistic ware 
of the middle of the eighteenth century, more fre- : 
quently seen in dishes, comptiers, and dessert 
services. Till the reign of William and Mary dainty 
" bride knives " were in vogue— orthodox wedding 
presents which the bride wore suspended from her 
girdle ; and some fine specimens of which emanated 
from Sheffield in the early days of its industrial 
development . 

The word " fork' " occurs twice in the Bible : once 
in the Pentateuch, where mention is made of the 
" flesh forks," evidently referring to those which were 
used to take the meat out of the pot ; the other in- 
stance is in an account of the riches of Solomon's 
temple, where, singularly enough, the Vulgate has 
the word furca, which the English translation renders 
as spoon. 

Did the ancients eat " from hand to^ mouth," or 
did they, as many authorities contend, use table 
forks? Does the Greek word kreagra indicate 
a fork for the table, or merely a flesh-hook by which 
the cook hauled the mass of boiled meat out of the 
pot? The flesh-hook mentioned in i Samuel ii. 13 
was a three-pronged fork used by the priests for 
drawing out the flesh from the kettle or cauldron. 
What are we to understand by the Latin words 
furca, furcilla? Beck'mann asserts distinctly that the, 
ancients had no table fork's. 

It must not be forgotten that the food put upon 
the table by the ancients was always more tender 
and easier of digestion than much of that served now, 
and also that it was invariably cut into tiny pieces • 
before being served up. The guests did not sit at 
tables, but reclined on couches, a posture which did 
not leave both hands at liberty. Persons of rank 



154 GOOD CHEER 

kept a carver, whose duty was to cut up the meat 
with a richly ornamented knife according to certain 
prescribed rules. Bread was broken, never cut. 

Juvenal, in describing the stale, dried bread which 
a churlish host served to his poor relations, while 
regaling his grand visitors with the baker's newest, 
sweetest, and best, does not say it could not be 
cut, but that it could not be broken : — 

"Mark with what scorn that other deals your stmt 
Of bread in mouldy fragments hard as flint ; 
Fragments your lab'ring grinders cannot bite ; 
But your lord's bread, how fair, how fine, how white ! " 

In Ovid's " Art of Love " there is a couplet in 
which the poet, addressing a lady, lays down a 
rule as to the polite manner of picking her food 
with her fingers— not with a fork. Among the 
Roman remains found in England are instruments 
supposed to have been used as forks — as in the 
museum of Mr. Roach Smith, for instance — but the 
rarity of the examples, as compared with knives and 
spoons, maktes the surmise doubtful. Spoons of 
different shapes and sizes have been frequently found, 
and Mr. Smith had also a Roman steel for sharpen- 
ing knives, very similar to those in use by butchers 
at the present day, even to the ring on the end of 
the handle for suspending it to the girdle. 

" This Vulcan was a smith, they tell us. 
That first invented tongs and bellows ; 
For breath and fingers did their works — 
We'd fingers long before we'd forks." 

Athenseus mentions the word " fork," but it does 
not appear whether it was a bident (with two prongs), 
or a trident (with three prongs), but it is certain 
that the Greeks were ignorant of the use of forks 
for eating — and even LucuUus was not acquainted 
with such a luxury. 



INTRODUCTION OF FORKS 155 

At Herculaneum were found a few two-branched in- 
struments, but it cannot be accepted that the Romans 
used forks at table. The first instance of the regular 
use of table forks recorded in history was that by 
John, the " good " Duke of Burgundy, and he had 
only two. A drawing of a supposed Saxon fork — it 
may possibly have been used for eating pickles or 
preserves — is given in Chambers's " Book of Days," 
ii. p. 573. 

As regards the use of forks in Italy, we find them: 
mentioned by Peter Damiani, an Italian writer of 
the eleventh century. To warn a lady, to whom he is 
writing, of the great danger of setting her heart on 
luxurious living, he proceeds to tell her a story which 
he had heard from a person of veracity : — 

" The Doge of Venice had married a lady from Constantinople, 
whose luxury surpassed all imagination. She would not even wash 
in common water, but had the cruelty to compel her servants to 
collect rain water for her ! . . . But what is most monstrous, this 
wicked creature would not eat with her fingers, but absolutely had 
her food cut into pieces, rather small (minutius), by her attendants, 
and then — she actually conveyed them to her mouth with certain 
golden two-pronged forks ! '' 

With the judgment which, of course, befell this pro- 
fligate slave of luxury we are not concerned ; but 
we at least discover the important fact that the luxury 
of forks was a novelty in Italy in Damiani's days — 
i.e., about the time of William' the Conqueror. 

In the household expenses of Edward I. we have 
a list of his personal effects taken at his decease, at 
Burgh-on-Sands, 1307. In it appear: "six silver 
forks, one gold fork, and a pair of table knives with 
handles of crystal." Cooking forks and dessert forks 
were not unknown in England in early times . 

After its introduction the use of a fork at table 
was long considered a superfluous luxury ; so much 
so, it was forbidden to convents in most countries. 



156 GOOD CHEER 

Beckmann, writing about the middle of the 
eighteenth century, says that while forks were still 
a rarity in Spain they had come into general use in 
France, where in the taverns knives were not placed 
on the table, as each person was expected to have 
his own, but as no person would eat without forks 
landlords were obliged to furnish these, together with 
plates and spoons. When Dr. Johnson travelled 
in Scotland he noticed that the Highlander wore his 
knife as a companion to his dirk, and that when the 
company sat down to meat, the men cut the flesh into 
small pieces for the women. The Highlander's table 
knife was introduced subsequently to the Revolution. 

Knives and forks are still unknown in the East ; 
the meat is always cut up into stews or else cooked 
till it is ready to fall to pieces. If chickens are 
being eaten, they are easily torn to pieces with the 
fingers. There is no vulgarity in this ; the very 
polite d la mode Oriental will tear up the best bits 
and either lay them next his guest or insist on putting 
them into his mouth. The richer people use spoons, 
but the most common mode of eating is to double 
up bits of thin bread spoon-fashion, and dip them 
in the dish — the common dish, from which every one 
is eating. 



XIII 

FORKS AND REFINEMENT 

When the fork should not be used — Basket-hilted knives and forks 
— Some artistic forks of the sixteenth century — Italian table 
magnificence — The double service of credenza and kitchen — 
Artistic spoons — The Apostle spoon — Roman shell-fish spoon 
— ^Annean knives with rounded tops — Sheffield cutlery — Knife, 
fork, and spoon in portable cases. 

The growth of refinement which accompanied the 
use of the table fork is seen in a direction which 
appears in " The Ingenious Gentlewoman's Delight- 
ful Companion," published in 1653, to the effect that 
" the accomplished lady " when carving at her own 
table should distribute the best pieces first, the Com- 
panion carefully adding! " it iwill be comely and decent 
to use a fork." 

And so the use of the fork gradually but surely 
made its way. Though convention has made its use 
imperative, it is still comme il faut to eat olives 
with the fingers. Cardinal Richelieu is said to have 
detected an adventurer, who was passing himself off 
as a noble, by his ignorance of this little piece of 
table etiquette — he was betrayed when he helped him- 
self to an olive with a fork. 

During the seventeenth century with the intro- 
duction and growing use of forks a vast improvement 
in table manners was effected ; in the earlier part 

157 



158 GOOD CHEER 

that noted epicure, Quin, the preceptor of Charles I., 
had said that " it was not safe to sit dovra to a 
corporation turtle -feast in the city of London without 
a basket -hiked knife and fork." (Yet the regular 
allowance at those banquets was three pounds* weight 
of live turtle per head 1) 

The earliest specimens of table cutlery are Italian 
sixteenth century, and are almost invariably works of 
art, and not merely plain, utilitarian implements like 
the Sheffield -made cutlery of to-day. An admirable 
object for a museum or private collection, for in- 
stance, is a fork, dated 1552, with an exquisite steel 
handle embellished with busts of negroes and floriated 
scrolls. Equally so is a Flemish knife, the handle 
of which is ornamented with gtoups of Amorini (the 
Amorini are pretty allegorical creatures of the Cupid 
family). Even a Dutch knife of the seventeenth 
century has a boxwood handle carved with scriptural 
subjects in oval medallions. All these furnish an 
excellent grip, are delightful to look at, and with 
reasonable care are imperishable. These were the 
kind of table implements people carried about with 
them ; young gallants fresh from a Venetian tour 
would produce such from their perfumed doublets at 
the ordinaries in Fleet Street or near St. Paul's, much 
to the wonder, disgust, and amusement of untravelled 
men. 

The Renaissance period was one of great magni- 
ficence in Italy, not only in art and architecture, in 
the gorgeousness of dress and personal adornment, 
b^t in the entertainments and festivities by which the 
Popes, republics, and petty princes of the peninsula 
vied with each other in the sumptuousness and costli- 
ness of the banquet they, were wont to accord on 
grand occasions to their illustrious guests. Towards 
the end of the fifteenth century the leagued Platina 
published a work in Latin on thQ varieties of human 



FORKS AND REFINEMENT 159 

food, the methods of preparing them, and their effect 
on the health. Another writer in a work on ban- 
queting gives a number of menus, which are also 
very informative. 

From the information furnished by these and other 
writers of the period we learn that Italian_dinners 
of the sixteenth century were divided into two parts, 
each consisting of several courses. Some of the 
courses came from the " Credenza " (credence or 
buffet) and some direct from the kitchen ; the former, 
of course, being cold, as cold meats, pies, salt fish, 
caviare and other relishes to stimulate the appetite, 
fruits, pastry, and confectionery ; and the latter, hot, 
carried straight to the carver, to be placed on the 
table immediately they had been cut up by him. 

The dinner began with a course from the credenza 
and was followed by, a hot dish from' the " servizio 
di cucina." Three or four of each thus alternated, 
each course comprising at a great banquet as many 
as twenty or thirty dishes. The sweetmeats, fruits, 
and confectionery were handed round after the 
rfemoval of the table-cloth. A dinner of this kind 
lasted three or four hours. 

Among the viands served at such entertainments 
we may read of Pisan and Roman biscuits with 
Malmsey wine served in little golden cups, cakes, 
some gilt and some moulded into exquisitely artistic 
shapes, pine-kernels, oranges, fritters made of chick- 
peas, sugar, raisins, and dateg ; in another course of 
large lampreys, slices of sturgeon roasted on the spit 
(each with an appropriates sauce), grilled shad wit? 
a sauce of raisins boiled in wine, small lampreys from 
the Tiber, pickled carp served cold with a sauce of 
sugar and red vinegar, pies of large lampreys, olives 
from Crete, and fish jelly made in a form with orna- 
ments of " mezzo -rilievo." The second course from 
the kitchen would extend to sixteen or twenty items. 



160 GOOD CHEER 

and include soup and pottages, while the third would 
consist principally of boiled fish — as sturgeon 
garnished with purple and yellow gilly-flowers, and 
the flesh of pike beaten into a pulp with fine sugar. 
In a concluding course from the credenza would 
occur almonds, walnuts, pears stewed in sugar, 
quinces boiled in wine, sugar, and cinnamon, pre- 
served cherries, and a vast variety of sweet pastry, 
to say nothing of a sort of thistle (cardo) served with 
pepper and salt. 

Old-time spoons — resuming the subject of table 
equipment — were often individual works of art. 
A spoon handle lends itself naturally to ornamenta- 
tion. The old-fashioned " Apostle spoon " is of a 
particularly sensible shape, for people sometimes 
desire to sip out of a spoon and not to thrust it into 
the mouth bodily. 

Apostle spoons formed a handsome christening 
present, especially the full set of a dozen, correspond- 
ing with the number of the apostles, the figure of a 
different saint forming the handle of each spoon at 
the top of a stem of about three and a half inches. 
The figures were distinguished by the well-known 
apostolic symbols, but every one was adorned with a 
wide-brinuned hat, no doubt affixed to save the 
features irom. effacement. The rarity and antiquity 
of apostle spoons render them of considerable value 
as curiosities. An anecdote on the subject (highly 
apocryphal, of course) relates that Shakespeare, 
having been godfather to one of Ben Jonson's 
children, made the child a present of a dozen good 
latten spoons of this description, and jokingly bade 
his friend Ben translate them' — the jest being a play 
on the word " latten " (Latin), the name of an alloy 
which was' much employed in those days. 

Roman spoons were sometimes made with a point, 
with which " shell -fish " could be picked out of their 



FORKS AND REFINEMENT 161 

shells. The Romans were particularly fond of 
molluscous dainties. 

The rounded top of the dinner knife is a convention 
which dates back to about, the time of Queen Annie, 
when even well-bred i>eople ate with their knives. 
It may safely be asserted that few use the fork more 
gracefully than an English lady. The Germans 
generally grasp it with a clenched fist. But 
the Annean fork of two long, thinnish, and well- 
separated steel spikes was an implement few could 
have used either gracefully or effectively. 

From Anderson's " History of Commerce " we 
learn that knives for table use were first made in 
England in 1563, though there is a passage in 
Chaucer which tells us that the miller of Tromping- 
ton carried a Shefifield whittle in his hose. But no 
one ventures to say the exact date at which table 
forks were included among Sheffield's famous cutlery 
productions — it was probably early in the eighteenth 
century. 

In France, prior to the Revolution, it was 
customary when a gentleman was invited to dinner 
for him to send his servant with his knife, fork, 
and spoon ; or if he had no servant he carried them 
with him as a workman does his tools. Sometimes 
leather cases to hold the three implements were used. 



11 



xiy 

WHEN ENGLAND FED ITSELF 

From "spoon meat" to carvable joints — Seventeenth-century 
changes — English home-grown food products — Saffron-growing 
— ^Apprentices object to a salmon diet — Popularity of medicinal 
herbs — English vegetables — " Eryingoes," and ill-used potatoes 
— Obsolete cookery terms — Yeomen's fare — Self-suppljong 
homesteads — The peasants' fare — More boiUng than roasting — 
Breakfast ale — " Cock ale " — Brandy — Dinner manners — ^Weird 
cookery — Cromwell's weakness — Pepys' gossip on the dietary 
of the period. 

After the eccentric Coryate had introduced forks, a 
complete revolution in English cookery took place ; 
the mortrewres, hashes, and other messes of spoon 
meat gave way to burly barons and chines of beef 
and other large joints. 

As a matter of historical accuracy, the gay 
Cavaliers and the sour-visaged Puritans fought out 
their quarrels of the great Civil War chiefly upon 
minces and stews and made dishes — upon what may 
be literally and truthfully designated " spoon meat." 

Ere the close of the sixteenth century certain home 
products had already begun to acquire something of 
a national reputation for the excellence of their 
quality. Among the best foodstuffs in England were 
Cambridge butter, Suffolk milk, Cotswold mutton, 
Hampshire pork, Buckinghamshire bread and meat, 
and Nottinghamshire ale. Gloucestershire boasted 

161 



WHEN ENGLAND FED ITSELF 163 

of its cheeses, Cheshire of its salt, and Cornwall of 
its pies. Kent, " the garden of England," haid already 
made a name for its hops, Middlesex for its cherries 
and its cabbages, Worcestershire ior its pears, 
and Leicestershire for its beans. (As for apples, 
Herefordshire and- Gloucestershire claimed to grow 
the best, though there was a popular ditty in the 
north which said : — 



" He that will fish for a Lancashire man at any time or tide 
Must bait his hook with a good egg-pie, or an apple with a 
red side." 



It was then Middlesex for grain, and the loaves 
which Queen Elizabeth ate were made fromi the good 
flour of Heston white wheat. 

As Hampshire men were dubbed " hogs " in 
allusion to their pig-breeding, so Bedford folk were 
nicknamed " malt -horses " because of the high 
quality of malt they produced from their barley. The 
Isle of Man was noted for its oats, and Essex for 
saffron, which was so much used in olden times ; 
for people were fond of little currant cakes flavoured 
with saffron, and they had also great belief in this 
herb as a cure for fever and other ailments. This , 
plant was therefore more grown and worth more than 
it is now ; and the town of Saffron Walden got its 
name from the great beds of it that were regularly 
grown in that neighbourhood. 

Essex had a reputation for its calves, and the 
Lancashire kine were said to be the biggest in 
England and to show the finest horns and the best 
hides. 

The freshwater fish and the wild fowl from the 
Lincolnshire fens were highly tho^ght of, and 
Wytham pike and Ancholm' eels were as well known 
and prized as Severn lampreys and Thalmtes salmon 



164 GOOD CHEER 

and smelt. The Severn also produced salmon so 
plentifully — the rapid transport and distribution of 
fresh fish was next to impossible in those days — 
that apprentices' indentures in all Severn-side towns 
contained a clause that their masters were not to 
feed them on this fish mbre than a specified number 
of days in the year. 

Our ancestors had great faith in the medicinal 
virtues of herbs, which were regularly hawked about 
the streets, as may be learned from one of the 
Roxburgh ballads : — 



{■ 



" Here's pennyroyal and marygolds, 
Come, buy my nettle tops ! 
Here's water-cress and scurvy-grass, 
Come, buy my sage of virtue, ho ! 
Come, buy my wormwood and mugworts. 
Here's all fine herbs of every sort I 
Here's southern-wood that's very good, 
Dandelion and houseleek ! 
Here's dragon's-tongue, and wood-sorrel. 
With bear's-foot and horehound ! 
Let none despise the merry, merry cries 
Of famous London Town !" 

The common bugloss so often grown in old English 
gardens is compared by Evelyn to the nepenthe which 
Homer mentions in the " Odyssey " — the magic drug 
which assuaged pain and made men forget their 
sorrows. Nettles are an excellent vegetable, plentiful 
in spring when other greens are scarce ; but, un- 
fortunately, they cost nothing but the trouble of 
gathering. Spinach was frequently called the 
" Spanish vegetable " under the belief that it came 
from Spain ; originally it was a Persian plant. 

Among the vegetables revealed by the cookery- 
books of the time as being in use in the seventeenth 
century may be named parsley, " caphers," " chibals " 
(onions), mushrooms, pompions (pumpkins), spinach. 



WHEN ENGLAND FED ITSELF ; 165 

artichokes, rice, and " cloves " of garlick, " Turnips " 
are mentioned in the medicines. Fennel wa^s used 
for sauce-making and garnishing ; spinach had long 
been known, but came more into favour. 

In the "Accomplisht Cook" (published in 1678) 
potatoes are named, and are ordered to be boiled 
and blanched ; seasoned with nutmeg, cinnamon, and 
pepper ; to be mixed with " eringo roots," dates, 
lemons, and whole mace ; to be covered with butter, 
sugar, and grape verjuice ; to be made with pastry 
into a pie, and used with rose-water and sugar. From 
this cruel and unseemly treatment of the poor un- 
offending potato one begins to understand why it 
was that the American tuber was so long popularising 
itself with the English palate. Eryngo, it may be 
ejsplained, — was -tiie— fleshy root of ' the sea=i»ily, 
candiedf-as a -sweetmeaU- phakespeare makes Falstaff 
talk about the sky raining potatoes^ hailing kissing- 
comfits, and snowing eryngoes. 

In the confections of the seventeenth century not 
only were many colouring matters used — saffron, 
Saunders, " chochineli," " blew starch," and the juices 
of violets, of gilly-flowers, and of marigolds — ^but, 
often enough, perfumes entered into the composition, 
as musk, civet, rose-water, orange-water, and violet- 
water. 

A number of cookery terms, and names employed 
in culinary processes, have become obsolete since 
the seventeenth century. In bread they used to make 
" cheat -loaves," " manchets," and " cracknels "(crisp 
cakes). Cakes and puddings used to be baked in 
"coffins." Sugar and spices were " searsed " 
(sifted) ; cooks " coddled " (warmed up), " seethed," 
" bottomed " (drained), and " endored " (made shiny, 
as with egg or sugar) their products. They had 
" coasts of beef," " cheese mots," " marchepans," 
and " ranioles " ; and (as we still hiave) " fritturs," 



166 ^ GOOD CHEER 

"jumbals " (ginger-bread), and " sallets " (salads). 
" Marchepanes," it may be explained, were used at 
dessert, and, according to Markham's " Countrey 
Farmer " (1616), " were made of verie little flower, 
but with addition of greater quantitie of filberds, 
pine-nuts, pistaces, almonds, and rosed sugar." 

In country life the old English yeoman gave alms 
to the poor and kept hospitality with his neighbours. 
A ballad, dating from Elizabeth's days, gives us an 
insight into the simple hospitality which a farmer 
could offer to such an occasional caller as a noble 
fatigued with the chase. The yeoman — 

" Did house him in a peakisb graunge 

Within a forest great ; 
Wheare knowne and welcomed as the place 

And persons might aflEorde ; 
Browne bread, whig, bacon, curds and milke 

Were set him on the borde. 
A cushion made of lists, a stoole 

Half-backed with a houpe 
Were brought him, and he sitteth down 

Beside a sorry coupe. 
The poor old couple wished their bread 

Were wheat, their whig was perry, 
Their bacon beefe, their milk and curds 

Were cream, to make him merry." 

" Whig," it may be explained, was buttermilk. 

The honest farmer of those days pursued many 
trades in his homestead. He gr6w his own hops, 
made his own malt, and brewed his own beer. He 
killed his sheep or his calf without the aid of a 
butcher, and made his own candles from' the waste 
fat. His cheese was made in his own press. He 
cultivated herbs for physid, which his wife dried 
or distilled. His corn ctops were varied by the 
cultivation of saffron and mustafd-seed. He fed 
his pigs on the mast of the forest, he kept hives 
of bees, and he had eels in his fish-stew. The 



WHEN ENGLAND FED ITSELF 167 

prosperous yeoman had his own hereditary indoor 
labourers, frugally but abundantly fed upon salted 
fish or salted beef, occasionally varied with veal and 
bacon, or grass -beef and pease, with roast meat on 
Sundays and on Thursdays at night :— 

"With sometimes fish, and sometimes fast 
That household store may longer last." 

The sturdy farm-labourer of the seventeenth 
century was not given to luxurious living. A metrical 
account of the simple routine of his daily life has 
been written by Taylor, the Water Poet. His habits 
were temperate and industrious. 

"Good wholesome labour was his exercise, 
Down with the lamb, and with the lark would rise. 

He was of old Pythagoras' opinion 

That green cheese was most wholesome with an onion ; 

Coarse mesUn bread, and for his daily swig 

Milk, butter-milk, and water, whey and whig." 

Meslin bread was made of a mixture of several 
kinds of flour. In Scotland the term " mashlum 
bannocks " was used for cakes made from ai mixture 
of barley and peasmeal. 

People ate more sparingly of vegetables than we 
do now, and used potatoes much less. In Hampshire 
potatoes were eaten only with roast beef. During 
the winter much salt meat was eaten, the supply 
of fresh meat at that season being short and un- 
certain. There was more boiling than roasting, both 
meat and vegetables being boiled in one pot, and 
turned out on to a large dish to be served together. 
Mutton and beef broth appeared on the table very 
frequently. 

In the seventeenth century breakfast was not con- 
sidered a meal of much importance, generally con- 



168 GOOD CHEER 

sisting of a draught of ale with bread-and-butter. 
Children drank beer from their babyhood still ; for 
although tea, coffee, and chocolate began to be used, 
they were far too dear to be drunk by the mass of 
the people. The principal meals of the day were 
dinner and supper. Ale was not only used as a 
beverage, but was sometimes employed as a cooking 
medium. An ancient dish, now scarcely remembered, 
was cock-ale, made, as its name implies, of ale, 
the minced meat of a boiled cock, and other 
ingredients . 

At Christmas a squire of moderate means would 
probably contrive to have wine on the table, though 
beer would even then be the principal drink. Brandy 
was already common enough for the Rev. Robert 
South to speak of " brandy -shops." 

" As the habit of drinking to excess was general in the class to 
which he belonged," writes Macaulay of the country gentleman of 
that period, " and as his fortune did not enable him to intoxicate 
large assemblies daily with claret or canary, strong beer was the 
ordinary beverage. It was only at great houses, or on great 
occasions, that foreign drink was placed on the board." 

,' Dinner was served about midday, the diners 
sitting at the table upon stools, and wearing their 
hats. On the table of the upper classes a beaker 
of water was set before each person, in which at 
the end of the meal he dipped his napkin with which 
to clean his teeth and wash his hands. Towards the 
close of the century forks had made their appear- 
ance on the dinner -tables of the well-to-do, and then 
good manners directed that no one should wipe his 
knife and fork upon the tablecloth, or on the loaf, 
but upon his own napkin. The wiping of the knife 
and fork was rendered necessary by the fact that, 
even at a royal feast, though the meal might com- 



WHEN ENGLAND FED ITSELF 169 

prise many courses, only one knife and fork was 
set before each guest. 

Among the higher classes the dinner-hour crept 
on from midday to two, and by the next century 
even to four o'clock.) 

The cookery of "the period was a wonderful 
admixture of sweets and savouries, and combinations 
which appear to us now as incongruous and weird, 
if not in some instances positively nauseating. 

It is impossible, reading of such outrages on taste, 
not to sympathise with Crom'weirs hatred of kick- 
shaws. It would seem, however, that in the topmost 
height of his power the Protector could not have 
what he liked at his own dinner-table. One weak- 
ness of the great man was to relish an orange with 
roast veal ; and it is on record that he one day 
asked for the fruit and was refused it ; " the Lady 
Elizabeth," his consort, replying that " Oranges were 
oranges now, crab oranges cost a groat, and for 
her part she never intended to give it." Whereupon 
a whisper went round the table that sure her Highness 
was never the adviser of the Spanish War. Such is 
the story related in that indiscreet little volume 
entitled the " Court and Kitchen of Elizabeth Crom- 
well," which leaves one the impression that the saints 
fared as well as the sinners. 

Pepys delighted to set down what he ate and 
drank, and his " Diary " enlightens us as to the dishes 
then in vogue. At one grand dinner, of which he 
seems to have been proud, he gave " Fricasse of 
rabbits, and chickens ; a leg of mutton boiled ; three 
carps in a dish ; a great dish of a side of lamb ; a 
dish of roasted pigeons ; a dish of four lobsters ; 
three tarts ; a lamprey pie (this was a most rare 
dish), and a dish of anchovies," all these accom- 
panied by " good wines of several sorts." 

Through the pages of Samuel Pepys' Diary we 



170 GOOD CHEER 

obtain many curious peeps into the past, none of 
them more interesting and informative than those 
bearing upon the dietary of the period. Let us 
sample a few more. 

"6 ^une 1661. — We stayed talking and singing and drinking great 
draughts of claret, and eating botargo and bread and butter till 
twelve at night." 

Botargo was a sausage made of eggs and of the 
blood of a red mullet. 

"3 Nov. i66i. — At night, my wife and I had a good supper by 
ourselves of a pullet hashed, which pleased me much to see my 
condition come to allow ourselves a dish like that." 

The Diarist also mentions turkeys in several 
places ; he seems to have dined upon them often. 

" I Dec. 1661. — Cut a brave coUer of brawn from Winchcomb, 
which proves very good, and also opened a glass of girkins which 
Captain Cock gave my wife the other day, which are rare things." 

The cucumber was introduced into England from 
the Netherlands about 1538 ; no doubt pickled 
gherkins were " rare things " in Pepys' time. 

"6 yan. 1662. — To dinner to Sir Wm. Pens, it being a solemn feast 
day with him — his wedding day, and we had, besides a good chine 
of beef, and other good cheer, eighteen mince pies in a dish, the 
number of years that he had been married." 

Truly this was rather a pretty idea for celebrating 
a wedding feast while the Christmas pies were in 
season . 

" 26 March 1662. — I had a pretty dinner for [the company] ; viz. a 
brace of stewed carps, six roasted chickens, and a jowl of salmon, 
hot, for the first course ; a tanzy, and two neat's tongues, and cheese, 
the second." 



WHEN ENGLAND FED ITSELF 171 

A tansy was a sweet dish made of egg's, cream, 
&c., flavoured with the juice of tansy, a common 
species of odorous herb. 

" 5 y«(y 1662. — At noon, had Sir W. Pen and his son William to 
my house to dinner — I having some venison given me a day or tvro 
ago, and so I had a shoulder roasted, another baked, and the umbles 
baked in a pie, and all very well done." 

Umbles are the heart, liver, and entrails of the 
deer, and in olden times were the perquisite of the 
huntsman. ,When the lord and his household dined, 
the venison pasty was served on the dais, but the 
umbles were made into a pie for the huntsman and 
his fellows. Hence the origin of the saying about 
" eating humble pie." 

" 24 Oct. 1662. — Dined with my wife upon a most excellent dish 
of tripes of my own directing, covered with mustard, as I have 
heretofore seen them done at my Lord Crewe's, of which I made a 
very good meal, and sent for a glass of wine for myself." 

Evidently " tripes " were not considered so ple- 
beian a dish in the days of gossip Pepys. 

" 12 Jan. 1663. — I had for the company, after oysters at first 
course, a hash of rabbits and lamb, and a rare chine of beef. Next, 
a great dish of roasted fowl, cost me about 30s., and a tart, and then 
fruit and cheese. My dinner was noble, and enough. ... At supper, 
had a good sack posset and cold meat, and sent my guests away 
about ten o'clock, both them and myself highly pleased with our 
management of this day. ... I believe this day's feast will cost me 
near £s:' 

The prices given here are rather useful for pur- 
poses of comparison. Everything consumed, it will 
be observed, except the wines, was of English pro- 
duction. There was, as yet, no ransacking the 
markets of the world to supply England with food- 
stuffs . 



172 GOOD CHEER 

" I y«»« 1664. — At home, to look after things for dinner. And 
anon at noon comes Mr. Creed by chance, and by and by the three 
young ladies : and very merry we were at our pasty, very well 
baked ; and a good dish of roasted chickens ; pease, lobsters, 
strawberries." 

Here we may take leave of Pepys, remarking that 
the terms " pie " and " patty " are both diminutives 
of the older word " pasty." Correctly used, " pasty " 
and " patty " are limited to venison, veal, and a 
few other meats ; " pie " is of a wider signification, 
including fruit, mince, &c. 

The venison pasty, if not the food of the gods, 
is generally accounted the acme of high feeding for 
Elizabethan heroes. Keats thus apostrophises the 
bardic revellers of the old Mermaid tavern : — 

"Souls of Poets dead and gone. 
What Elysium have ye known, 
Happy field or mossy cavern. 
Choicer than the Mermaid Tavern ? 
Have ye tippled drink more fine 
Then mine host's Canary wine ? 
Or are fruits of Paradise 
Sweeter than those dainty pies 
Of venison ? " 



XV 

THE ROAST BEEF OF OLD ENGLAND 

Origin of the song — "Collops" — Legend of the Sir Loin — Old 
Fuller's version — Henry VIII. as its hero — The Merry 
Monarch version — A spurious ballad attributes the freak to 
Queen Bess — The local historian of Lancashire names James I. 
— Diminutive beasts — ^The breed improved by Bake^well — 
Winter keep introduced — The return of luxurious living — 
Poverty of culinary inventiveness — A I'Anglaise implies home- 
liness — The barbecue — The turnspit — The baron of beef — The 
saddle of mutton — The aldermanic propensity — "The Alder- 
man's walk " — English-made dishes — Salmagundi — Gallimaufry 
— Haricot — Bubble-and-Squeak — Lobscouse — Toad-in the-hole 
— British soups — The dawn of hope — The Food Cookery 
Association. 

Although the English have always been, more or 
less, a carnivorous nation, let it not be overlooked 
that " the roast beef of Old England," considered 
as the typical national food, is pure myth. 

The vain-glorious vaunts of the favourite old 
patriotic song date only from the early part of the 
eighteenth century ; the words have been ascribed 
to Henry Fielding, and the tune was composed by a 
man named Levefidge, a famous singer of that period. 
The sentiments it expresses at once betray its origin. 

"When mighty roast beef was the Englishman's food 
It ennobled our hearts and enriched our blood ; 
Our soldiers were brave and our courtiers were good, 

Oh ! the roast beef of Old England 

And oh ! for old England's roast beef. 

173 



174 GOOD CHEER 

Our fathers of old were robust, stout, and strong. 
And kept open house with good cheer all day long ; 
Which made their plump tenants rejoice in the song 
Oh ! the roast beef of Old England," &c. 

The next verse boasts of the roast -beef -produced 
valour of our sailors who vanquished the Spanish 
Armada. Now, though roast beef was cooked and 
served in Elizabeth's days, it did not become popular 
till the reign of Charles II., when, as we shall see, 
the days of spoon-meat had finally passed, the fork 
having come to the aid of the carver and the diner, 
and when a " roast " was looked upon as a welcome 
relief from the monotony of the customary boiled 
meats . 

The coUops of olden times were slices or lumps 
of meat ; sometimes of bacon, sometimes of beef 
(such as we should now call beefsteaks), sometimes 
of mutton (which would now be called mutton-chops). 
In the Book of Job allusion is made to the wicked 
man who " maketh collops of fat on his flanks " ; 
and Shakespeare speaks of " a coUop of flesh." 

The era of the large roasted joint of beef recalls 
the legendary knighting of the Sir Loin ; it will not 
be uninteresting to trace, or attempt to trace, this 
old English legend to its source. 

The lore of the legend is somewhat contradictory, 
and one of the earliest references to the " Sir Loin " is 
by old gossip Fuller in his Church History (1655) :— 

" King Henry VIII. as he was hunting in Windsor Forest, either 
casually lost, or (more probably) wilfully losing himself, struck down 
about dinner-time to the abbey of Reading, when, disguising himself 
(much for delight, more for discovery, to see, unseen), he was invited 
to the abbot's table, and passed for one of the King's guard ; a place 
to which the proportion of his person might properly entitle him. 
A sir-Jo^ne of beef was set before him (so knighted saith tradition 
by this King Henry) ; on which the King laid on lustily, not disgracing 
one of that place for whom he was mistaken. ' Well fare thy heart,' 
quoth the abbot ; ' and here is a cup of sack. I remember the health 



THE ROAST BEEF OF OLD ENGLAND 175 

of his grace, your master. I would give an hundred pounds, on the 
condition I could feed so heartily on beef, as you doe. Alas ! my 
weak and queazie stomach will hardly digest the wing of a small 
rabbit or chicken.' The King pleasantly pledged him, and heartily 
thanked him for his good cheer ; after dinner departed, as undis- 
covered as he came thither. Some weeks after, the abbot was sent 
for by a pursuivant, brought up to London, clapt in the Tower, kept 
close prisoner, fed for a short time on bread and water ; yet not 
so empty his body as his mind was filled with fears, creating many 
suspicions of himself, when and how he had incurred the King's dis- 
pleasure. At last a sir-loyne of beef was set before him, on which 
the abbot fed as the farmer of his grange, and verified the proverb 
that two hungry meals make the third a glutton. In springs King 
Henry out of a private lobbie where he had placed himself, the 
invisible spectator of the abbot's behaviour. ' My lord,' quoth the 
King presently, ' deposit your hundred pounds of gold, or else no 
going hence all the days of your life. I have been your physicain 
to cure you of your queazie stomach ; and here, as I deserve, I 
demand my fee for the same.' The abbot down with his dust, and, 
glad he had escaped so, returned to Reading ; as somewhat lighter 
in his purse, so much merrier in heart." 

The story may, or it may not, be apocryphal ; 
on the face of it, the tale seems designed to force 
prominently into notice the high-feeding proclivities 
of the Churchmen of those days. The actual cere- 
mony of the accolade is not mentioned, as it is in the 
legend which attributes the freak to Charles II. 

The Merry Monarch is said to have returned from 
Epping Forest literally as hungry as a hunter to that 
hospitable mansion, Friday Hall, Chingford. His 
delight at beholding on the table a huge loin of 
beef, steaming hot, was such that he exclaimed,, " A 
noble joint ! by St. George it shall have a title I " 
And drawing his sword, he raised it above the gallant 
joint, crying with mock dignity, " Loin, we dub thee 
knight — ^henceforward be Sir Loin." Within recent 
times the old Chingford mansion, formerly a royal 
hunting lodge said to have been used by Queen 
Elizabeth, claimed to possess the veritable table upon 
which King Charles knighted the beef. It was a 



176 GOOD CHEER 

clumsy-looking piece of furniture, made of stout 
English oak, but very much dilapidated. 

The epithet " mutton -eating king " was said to 
have been conferred on Charles II. by his favourite, 
Lord Rochester. Rochester had been the King's 
companion in the years of his exile, during which 
time they had often to dine on what they could get, 
and the epithet is generally supposed to have refer- 
ence to their starvation diet. 

.With regard to England's typical joint of beef 
another suggestion is that the travestied honour was 
conferred upon it by Queen Elizabeth. The lines 
in which the audacious suggestion is made occur in 
one of those spurious " old ballads " which date back 
no farther than the beginning of the last century : — 

" Elizabeth Tudor her breakfast would make 
On a pot of strong beer and a pound of beefsteak 
Ere six in the morning was tolled by the chimes — 
Oh, the days of Queen Bess, they were merry Old Times ! 

From hawking and hunting she rode back to town 
In time just to knock an ambassador down, 
To/d, trifled, coqueted, then lopped off a head. 
And at three-score-and-ten danced a hornpipe to bed. 

With Nicholas Bacon, her councillor chief. 
One day she was dining on English roast beef — 
That very same day when her Majesty's grace 
Had given Lord Essex a slap on the face. 

My Lord Keeper stared, as the wine cup she kissed. 
At his sovereign lady's superlative twist ; 
And thought, thinking truly his larder would squeak. 
He'd much rather keep her a day than a week. 

' What call you this dainty, my very good lord ? ' 
'The loin' — bowing low till his nose touched the board. 
' And — breath of our nostrils and light of our eyes — 
Saving your presence, the ox was a prize.' 



THE ROAST BEEF OF OLD ENGLAND 177 

Unsheath me, mine host, thy Toledo so bright : 

Delicious Sir Loin ! I dub thee a knight ; 

Be thine at our banquets of honour the post — 

While the Queen rules the realm, let Sir Loin rule the roast!" 

Variants of this popular tradition have even found 
their way into local histories. In "The Traditions 
of Lancashire " the scene is changed to Houghton 
Tower, near Blackburn, and the hero this time is 
James I. During the King's visit in 1617 to this 
mansion high revelry was held, including sports, a 
masque, and much feasting. 

The local historian of the Coimty Palatine says that 
while James " sat at meat, casting his eyes upon a 
noble sarloin at the lower end of the table, he cried 
out, ' Bring hither that surloin, sirrah, for 'tis worthy 
a more honourable post, being, as I may, say, not 
sar-lion, but sir-loin, the noblest joint of all I ' which 
ridiculous and desperate pun raised the wisdom and 
reputation of England's Solomon to the highest." 

Those who would credit this story have the 
authority of Dr. Johnson to support them, among 
whose explanations of the word sir, in his dictionary, 
is that it is " a title given to the loin of beef which 
one of our kings knighted in a fit of good-humour." 

Dr. Pegge, a learned antiquary, though no great 
authority on language, says : " Surloin is, I conceive, 
if not knighted by King James as is reported, com- 
pounded of the French sur, " upon," and the English 
loin, for the sake of euphony, our particles not easily 
submitting to composition. In proof of this, the 
piece of beef so called grows upon the loin, and 
behind the small ribs of the animal." 

Following up this idea, the double sirloin has 
received the fanciful name of baron, and we thus 
find Scott, in " Old Mortality," speaking of 

" The knightly sirloin, and the noble baron of beef." 

12 



178 GOOD CHEER 

The association of James I. with the episode may 
possibly have grown out of his proposal to banquet 
the devil on a loin of pork. The association of 
Charles II.'s name with it has been crystallised into 
an epigram — 

" Our Second Charles, of fame facete, 
On loin of beef did dine ; 
He held his sword, pleased, o'er the meat — 
' Rise up, thou famed Sir Loin I ' " 

And this fairly well exhausts the literature of 
the legend. 

When Charles II. knighted the Sir Loin of beef 
(if ever he did), and when he earned for himself the 
name of " the mutton -eating King," our sheep and 
cattle were quite diminutive beasts as compared with 
those now sent to market. 

Early in the eighteenth century Lord Townshend 
set the example of growing turnips every third year, 
so that the land produced three crops in three years 
instead of two. Other improvements largely in- 
creased the productiveness of the soil, and " winter 
keep " was systematically grown for the cattle. 

Oxen and sheep were small and scraggy well into 
the eighteenth century, when immense strides began 
to be made in cattle-breeding. A Leicestershire 
farmer, named Bakewell, deserves most of the credit 
for this improvement ; his sheep had two pounds 
of mutton on them where there had been only one 
pound before, and he was equally successful in pro- 
ducing fat oxen with plenty of beef. In 1710 the 
average net weight of the cattle sold at Smithfield 
was 370 lb. and sheep 28 lb. By the year 1800 
they had increased respectively to 800 lb. and 80 lb. 

Robert Bakewell held levees in his kitchen at 
Dishley, of the greatest in rank, the most eminent in 
science. He utterly disregarded the old notion of 



/ 'I'll, If 







THE ROAST BEEF OF OLD ENGLAND 179 

producing cattle with large bones ("a framework 
with plenty of room to lay the flesh on ") and main- 
tained that the smaller the bone, the quicker would 
be the fattening, and the greater the proportion of 
valuable meat. He directed the efforts of graziers 
into a new channel, and founded the famous breed 
of Leicester sheep. 

So remarkable were the results achieved by the im- 
proved system of cattle -feeding, that the caricaturists 
of the early nineteenth century found in " prize 
meat " a new and promising subject to sharpen their 
wits upon. 

As late as 1685, according to Macaulay, the rota- 
tion of crops was very imperfectly understood ; 
though it was known that some recently introduced 
vegetables, particularly the turnip, afforded excellent 
winter nourishment for sheep and cattle, these animals 
were still killed and salted in great numbers at the 
beginning of the cold weather, and during several 
months of the year even the gentry tasted scarcely 
any fresh animal food, except game and river fish. 
As to the common people, an old chap-book of the 
period, entitled " The Misfortunes of Simple Simon," 
uses the expression " roast-meat cloaths " as an 
equivalent for holiday clothes. 

Before the era of turnips the difficulty of saving 
cattle from starvation in the winter is thus set forth 
in worthy Thomas Tusser's doggerel code of agri- 
culture, entitled " Five Hundred Points of Good 
Husbandry " :— 

" From Christmas till May be well entered in 
Some cattle wax faint, and look poorly and thin ; 
And chiefly when prime grass at first doth appear 
Then most is the danger of all the whole year.' 

Field turnips were cultivated in William HI.'s 



180 GOOD CHEER 

time, but their cultivation was not encouraged till 
the time of George II. The cultivation of clover 
was advocated before the Revolution, but the value 
of green crops was little understood, and the old 
system of " fallow " was long in giving way to the 
rotation of crops . 

Among the wealthier classes of this country ^ 
more luxurious form of living came in again with 
the elegancies and artificialities of the eighteenth 
century. Steele exhorts his readers to reconcile 
themselves to beef and mutton — " the diet which bred 
the hardy race who won the fields of Cressy and 
Agincourt." The common people, he says, keep 
up the taste of their ancestors. "I would desire 
my readers to consider what work our countrymen 
would have made at Blenheim and Ramilies if they 
had been fed with kickshaws and ragouts." He 
views with disgust the sumptuous table at which 
fashionable diners " cool their mouths with lumps 
of ice, which they had just before been burning 
with salt and pepper " ; and expressed a wish for 
" two plain dishes, with two or three good-natured, 
cheerful, ingenious friends," which he has no hesita- 
tion in declaring would make him " more pleased 
and vain than all that pomp and luxury could 
bestow." 

Swift and Pope satirise the growing luxury of the 
time. The former, having dined in the company 
of Dartineuf, the inventor of the famous dish 
" Darty's ham pie," the epicure of his age made 
known to us through Pope, dismissed the entertain- 
ment with the remark : " We had such fine victuals 
I could not eat it." In the " Dunciad " the travelled 
nobleman 



" Tried all hors d'oeuvres, all liqueurs defined. 
Judicious drank, and greatly daring dinsd." 



THE ROAST BEEP OP OLD ENGLAND 181 

Culinary inventiveness in the English mind runs 
along the groove of utilitarianism riather than of 
ornament and artisti^ ; it always inclines to the 
homely and is seldom " faddy." But if there is a 
lack of imagination about English dishes, there is an 
unfailing substantiality designed to leave the diner 
with a feeling of hearty satisfaction with his meal. 
The cookery term d PAnglaise implies something 
in the shape of a plain roast or a plain boil, or that 
the dish is prepared by the "plain cook" typical 
of the country. 

Never were more substantial repasts spread than 
in the baronial halls of our ancient feudal mansions, 
or in the spacious refectories of old English 
monasteries. But the barbecue — the animal cooked 
whole — was the fare provided iot the open-air enter- 
tainment at great rejoicings. 

When the meat was roasted, it was placed in 
front of the fire on a spit which needed constant 
turning. This service was performed by a smoke- 
jack in the chimney actuated by the ascending current 
of air, or by a long-bodied " turn-spit " dog in a 
wheel -cage, or by a small boy turning a handle. 
The pulley -wheel which was on the spit was con- 
nected to one or other of these motive " engines " 
by means of ropes or chains. 

Among the other forms of obsolete roasting 
mechanism was a crude clockwork. Broach-turnexs, 
as the lads who manipufeted the larding-pin were 
called, were least resorted to. The importance of 
the service in the domestic arrangements of the long- 
dead past may be judged from the fact that the 
manor of Ashwell, in Essex, was held by the 
serjeanty of " turning one broche or spit in the 
King's Kitchen on his coronation day " — a tenure 
about as servile as that of scalding the King's pigs 
by which Bure in the same county was held. 



182 GOOD CHEER 

Henry VII. made a turnspit of Lambert Simnel, who 
had aspired to rob him of his throne. i 

In old kitchens the dog-wheel was generally over 
the right corner of the chimney-piece, and the 
dogs employed were long-bodied, crooked-legged 
creatures. In large establishments, where one dog 
was insufficient to do all the turning, several were 
kept, and worked in relays. And some of them were 
intelligent enough not to do more than their stint. 

"With eagerness he still does forward tend, 
Like Sisyphus, whose journey had no end." 

It is related that consternation once reigned in the 
kitchens and dining-rooms of Bristol, when a sea- 
captain, to spite the inhabitants, who had been 
pointedly inhospitable to him, sent out his men one 
night and stole every turnspit dog that was to be 
found. The dog it was that " ruled the roast " 
in those days. 

A traveller in France has related that he once saw 
there a goose turning a spit on which a turkey 
roasted— the operator in this case, being a " goose," 
was no doubt unconscious of the humour of the 
situation . 

The most singular spit in the world was that of 
the Count de Castel Maria, one of the most opulent 
lords of Treviso. This spit turned one hundred and 
thirty different roasts at once, and played twenty -four 
tunes, and whatever it played, corresponded to a 
certain degree of cooking, which was perfectly under- 
stood by the cook'. Thus, a leg of mutton a VAnglcdse 
would be excellent at the twelfth air ; a fowl d. la 
Flamande would be juicy at the eighteenth, and so 
on. It would be difficult, perhaps, to carry farther 
the love of music and gormandising. 

In England the picturesque old kitchens of Tudor 



THE ROAST BEEF OF OLD ENGLAND 183 

times, low-beamed and smoke -blackened, with gajping 
hearth where the revolving spit seemed to have 
solved the problem of perpetual motion, ate becoming 
fewer and harder to find every year. 

The baron of beef, which comprises both sides of 
the back, or the double sirloin, a huge joint which 
may range from fifty to a hundred pounds in weight, 
is always roasted, though seldom prepared now, 
except on festive occasions at the English Court. The 
saddle of mutton — the two loins undivided — is a more 
convenient joint. 

The aldermanic propensity to dine well has given 
us two English cookery terms typical of municipal 
festivities. The " Alderman in chains ""is a turkey 
roasted" with festooning links of sausage ; the 
" Alderman's _walk_^' is the name given to the centre 
cut obtained by making a long incision along the 
haunch of mutton (or, it may be, the haunch of veni- 
son) where the most delicate slices are to be found. 

Whenever the English mind has left the " plains " 
of cookery, and soared aloft to the heights of " made 
dishes," the result may invariably be described as 
simple and satisfying. The old English supper dish, 
salmag;undi, was a meat -salad, mixed and decorated 
with hard-boiled eggs, anchovy, pickles, and beet- 
root. The other strangely-named dish, gallimaufry, 
was a hotch-potch made up of all the scraps of the 
larder. 

Haricot is a thick meat stew containing haricot 
beaiis ; "haricot mutton is a ragout made with 
hashed mutton and turnips — in old French, harigot 
meant a " morsel." 

Bubble-and-squeak is a dish which could not 
possibly be other than English. It consists of cold 
boiled meat and greens fried. They first bubbled 
in the water when boiled, and afterwards squeaked 
or hissed in the frying-pan. 



184 GOOD CHEER 

Lobscouse was a savoury dish of beef, potatoes, 
and onions fried together, and formerly eaten in the 
Cumbrian district as the dish with which to celebrate 
Twelfth Night. 

Toad-in-the-hole is the fanciful folk-name for 
pieces of meat, sausage, or kidney, baked in a batter 
pudding. 

The French have not less than five hundred 
different kinds of soup, making almost endless 
varieties of their consomnti (clear gravy soups, the 
clarified liquor in which flesh of some kind or other 
has been boiled) ; of their Julienne (clear vegetable 
soups, those in which roots have been finely shredded) ; 
and of their pturee (thick soups in w'hich either 
vegetables have been pulped or meat or fish has 
been pounded and sieved). Compared with all these, 
how few are native British soups — kale brose, cock- 
a-leekie, mutton broth, oxtail, giblet, split pea, 
grouse, and (the Anglo-Indian) muligatawny soups. 
Only poverty of culinary inventiveness and a plentiful 
lack of manipulative skill in the kitchen can account 
for so wide a disparity. 

However, with the assistance and encouragement 
of the Food Cookery Association, British taste and 
culinary practice are to be vastly improved in the 
immediate future. By means of lectures, exhibitions, 
and other forms of propagandism, a new era of 
British cookery is to dawn upon us — among other 
reforms, English housewives are to be taught the 
culinary possibilities of butter, and to be made 
acquainted with some of the two hundred and forty 
methods of preparing potatoes. Greatest revolution 
of all is the promised abolition of pots and sauce- 
pans, and with them much of the kitchen drudgery, 
by the advent of the paper -bag cookery. 



XVI 
"THE STAFF OF LIFE" 

A small bread consumption — Wheat exported till middle of eighteenth 
century — Rye bread eaten by more than half the population — 
" Blencorn " — On the brink of starvation in 1800 — The various 
Government palliatives — Bread, the "staff of life" in olden 
times — Simnel bread — Pain demayn — Wastel bread — Cocket, or 
sealed bread — Two brown breads, tourtea.n6. trefe — Black bread 
— Horse bread, of peas and beans— Bread-baking — ^And assaying 
— Quaint regulations for the sale of bread — Conventual bread 
— Pants armigerorum — Panis conventualis — Panis puerorum — 
Panis famulorum — Price of wheat temp. Henry I. — Regulated 
traffickings in grain and meal — London and Farnham corn 
markets — ^Assize of bread — The Cocquet office — Fraudulent 
bakers — Severe penalties for default — " Bredwite " — The bread 
markings of various denominations — " Standard bread " in 1773 
— Wheaten bread a luxury in eighteenth century — Bread riots 
in nineteenth century. 

The sparing use of green vegetables by the English 
people has already been noted. The amount of bread 
consumed was also surprisingly low. 

The consumption of animal food in England has 
always been a matter of surprise to foreigners. As 
late as the middle of the eighteenth century England 
was able to export wheat, not so much from the 
plentifulness of its harvests as from the small home 
consumption of that grain. Sijc or seven ounces of 
bread were sufficient for the daily sustenance of an 
Englishman ; a French traveller visiting England 
in 1765 writes that the amount of bread which 

185 



186 GOOD CHEER 

" would scarce be enough for a Frenchman of 
ordinary appetite would suffice thtee hungry English- 
men." He noted that the labourers of the southern 
counties ate their rye bread with hard cheese, and 
rarely tasted animial food, while those of the north 
contented themselves with their oatmeal feast of 
crowdie or parritch. At that time less than half the 
population were fed on wheaten bread ; the entire 
rural population ate rye bread, barley bread, oat- 
cake, or a bread of " blencorn " — ^that is, a blend of 
coarse meal. By the close of the eighteenth century 
Great Britain was unable to grow sufficient wheat for 
its own consumption. 

In 1800 the people of these islands were on the 
brink of famine owing to war and a succession of 
bad harvests, and the Government had resort to 
many palliatives. A royal proclamation exhorted to 
economy ; the noble and wealthy were expected to 
discourage the use of pastry in their households, 
and there was a movement to eat brown bread 
instead of white. 

A law was enacted prohibiting the sale of bread 
till it had been out of the oven at least twenty-four 
hours. Food was so scarce and dear that a portion 
of the population refused to starve in silence, and 
rioting broke out in many parts of England. The 
Acts against " forestalling and regrating " — ^that is, 
anticipating the markets so as to raise the price of 
foodstuffs — were rigorously enforced. A royal grant 
of £500 was made to one Thomas Toden, to enable 
him to prosecute a discovery, made by him, of a 
" paste " as a substitute for wheat flour. 

Bounties were paid on the importation of com 
and rice ; and a law was passed (the " Brown Bread 
Bill," 41 George III.) forbidding the manufacture of 
fine bread, and enacting that all bread should contain 
the " whole meal." The unfortunate seamen, fighting 



"THE STAFF OF LIFE" 187 

Great Britain's battles on the high seas, had to subsist 
on (biscuits, so badly made that when the weevils 
were knocked out, there often remained nothing but 
empty shells. All these efforts were as futile as 
they were fallacious, and on March 5, 1801, the price 
of the quartern loaf reached is. lojd. ; after which 
date it slowly moderated, a good harvest that year 
easing the economic strain very consider'aibly. The 
vast food markets of the world were as yet waiting 
to be opened by the free enterprise of British traders. 

This, briefly, summarises the economic position of 
the country with regard to its food supply a century 
ago. 

In the absence of the potato and other articles 
of food now common, bread in olden times was more 
nearly the staff of life than it is now. Five or six 
centuries ago bread was of various degrees of fine- 
ness (or " bolting," as it was called, from the 
bolting-sieve through which it passed at the mill) 
and colour. The finest and whitest was known as 
simnel bread, or in the thirteenth and fourteenth 
centuries, as pain demayn, corrupted from panis 
dominicus, " the Lord's bread," because on each fine 
loaf was impressed a figure of the Saviour. Only 
persons of highest rank and most affluent circum- 
stances could afford to consume this class of bread. 

The next in quality was the wastel bread, u;seid 
by the wealthier middle class ; the name was from 
the old French gassieau, a cake. Then came a 
quality very little inferior, light bread, sometimes 
known as French bread, or puffe. Next in quality 
was cocket, so called because it bore a baker's seal 
or cocket, as demanded by the strict regulations of 
London to warrant its standard of fineness. 

Of lower quality Was tourte, sL twisted bread made 
of unbolted meal, in general use ambng the humbler 
classes and the inmates of monasteries. Trete bread. 



188 GOOD CHEER 

or bis, or brown bread, was made of wheat meal 
from which the fine flour at one sifting had been 
removed. Then came black bread, made of various 
kinds of grain inferior to wheat. 

Horse bread was extensively prepared, in sealed 
loaves, of which the principal ingredients were beans 
and peas. Strict laws regulated both the baking of 
bread and the sale of it. The baker of white bread 
was on no account to make tourte, or brown bread, or 
to have a bolting-sieve in his possession. Keepers of 
inns and lodging-houses were not allowed to baJke 
bread. In London only farthing loaves and half- 
penny loaves were allowed to be made ; each loaf had 
to be sealed, and all bread was periodically assayed. 
In the markets loaves were exposed for sale in 
panyers, or bread-baskets, the principal days being 
Tuesday and Saturday, each basket paying a toll 
of one halfpenny. If the bread was delivered by 
female retailers who went from house to house, these 
" hucksters " were privileged to buy from the bakers, 
receiving thirteen loaves as twelve, the price of the 
additional loaf being reckoned as the limit of their 
legitimate profit. Hence "a baker's dozen" is 
always thirteen. Notwithstanding all these regula- 
tions and restrictions, there were many frauds and 
their corresponding penalties known to the trade of 
a baker in medieval times. 

In the Middle Ages London bakers were allowed^ 
to keep swine in their houses when other persons 
were forbidden, apparently with a view to the more 
speedy consumption of the refuse bran, and as an 
inducement to the baker not to make his bread of 
too coarse a quality. The pigs, however, were to 
be kept out of the public streets and lanes — for in 
those days there were city lanes green enough and 
dirty enough for the pigs to pick up something 
eatable. 



^'■A 



f0iSi 











5«*wSe 







(n.-,.-; 




BAKERS AT WORK (i6th CENTURY). 
From an old MS. 



To face p. 189, 



"THE STAFF OF LIFE" 189 

In the religious houses there were generally four 
different grades of brea'd baJtied in the monastic ovens. 
The best, designated panis armigerorum, was in- 
tended for the abbot's guests ajid wayfaring callers 
of distinction. Panis conventaalis was an inferior 
bread baked for the members of the fraternity them- 
selves. Then there were panis puerorutn, provided 
for the boys of the cloister school who had to be 
fed by the almoner ; and panis famulorunt, the 
special kind placed on the tables of the lay servants 
of the monastery. 

In the Black Book of the Exchequer We find that 
in the time of Henry I., when the estimate for the 
victuals for the King's household was reduced to 
money term's, a measure of wheat sufficient to make 
bread for the consumption of one hundred men per 
day was valued at one shilling. By the reign of 
Henry III. the price of wheat had advanced to 
fifteen or twenty shillings a quarter. 

For centuries the law demanded that weekly 
returns should be made by millers, meal-men, bakers, 
and others, of their traffickings in gtain, flour, and 
meal of all sorts ; and these returns were certified 
into a book, so that the price of bread might be 
adjusted to th^ price of the raw material, no altera- 
tion being allowed in the former until the latter 
varied at least threepence per bushel. Town clerks 
and clerks of markets were strictly enjoined to carry 
out these regulations, and justices at sessions were 
empowered to enforce them. 

Our illustration is taken from the work of a 
market official published in 1592 ; it shows some of 
the stages in bread-making, each accompanied by 
a moral couplet more creditable to the spirit of the 
age than descriptive of the bakehouse practice then 
prevailing. 

At the end of the seventeenth century thq wheat 



190 GOOD CHEER 

went mostly into the large towns, the rural popula- 
tion practically subsisting on barley bread, rye bread, 
and oat -cake. Much of the com trade of the Port 
of London resolved itself into the meal trade. 
Farriham was then the greatest provincial corn market 
in England for wheat, till the farmers of Sussex took 
to grinding their own wheat and sending the fiour 
to London by sea'. 

In recognition of bread as the staff of life in 
this country the law has provided for the " assize 
Oif bread " from the earliest times of our history. 
A statute of Henry III. particularises " wastel bread," 
" cocket bread," and " bread of treet," which answer 
roughly to the white bread, the wheaten bread, and 
the household bread of modern times. The term' 
" wastel " is Anglo-Norman, and specifies well-baked 
white bread ; " treet," or " trite," is a kind of bran ; 
and " bread of treet " was therefore a brown bread. 

" Cocket," as we have seen (p. 187), was a label 
of warranty for the second kind of best bread sold 
to the public. Till the time of George III. there 
was at the Mansion House a Cocquet Ofifice, where 
the bakers of London, trading within ten miles of 
the Royal Exchange, had to make their returns of 
meal and flour bought by them' during the week, 
every Saturday before five in the afternoon. 

The statutes relating to bread varied from time 
to time, and in olden timfes the penalties inflicted 
for breaches of the law were very severe. A fraudu- 
lent baker might be drawn on a hurdle, with the 
offending loaf tied round his neck, to the pillory, 
where he was exposed for the expiation of his offence ; 
and a repetition of his fraud generally entailed the 
destruction of his oven and a legal disability to 
follow his trade any more. Sometimes the penalty 
involved a public whipping. Magistrates had the 
right to search a baker's premises, and if any alum 



"THE STAFF OF LIFE" 191 

or other adulterant was discovered a seizure was 
made. " Bredwite " (the Saxon equivalent for 
" white bread ") was the name of the most ancient 
penalty imposed for defaults in the assize of bread, 
from which, as an old feudal privilege, the tenants 
of the honour of Wallingford were always specially 
exempt. 

Wheaten bread was often marked W. and house- 
hold bread H. ; bread not made of wheat — be it 
remembered that rye and barley were in common use 
at all bakeries — was to be marked with such letters 
as the justices might order. The letter X was some- 
times used to denote any denomination of mixed 
bread. In 1773 it was ordered that "standard 
wheaten bread shall weigh three-fourths of the wheat 
whereof made, and be marked S.W. The peck lo&f 
to weigh 17 pounds 6 ounces avoirdupois, and lesser 
loaves in proportion ; seven standard loaves equal 
to eight wheaten and six household." Upwards of 
twenty years later the law permitted loaves to be 
made of wheat, deducting only five pounds of bran 
per bushel, or mixed with other grain or potatoes, to 
be sold at such- prices as should be deemed reason- 
able. Household bread was usually reckoned to be 
one-fourth cheaper than wheaten. 
(^ In the eighteenth century the English farmer still 
ate barley bread, or bread malde of a mixture of 
barley and wheat ; or he was content with brea^d 
made of " blencom," a mixture of wheat and rye. 
He sat up to his stout table on a settle or a stool. 
Often enough the platters, bowls, and spoons on the 
table were of his own manufacture, carved on the 
winter evenings from beech or alder. The drinking 
vessels comprised leather black-jacks, or mighty jugs 
and drinking mugs of homware. 

Although meat could be bought at twopence -half- 
penny a poujid, the labouring classes seldom tasted 



192 GOOD CHEER 

it, their scanty wages not sufficing to buy such 
luxuries. Nor did they ever get wheaten bread. 
It is recorded that a well-to-do family in Cumber- 
land about the year 1750 only used a peck of wheat 
in the course of a whole year, and that was at 
Christmas — their main diet consisting of barley bread, 
oatmeal, and vegetables, with occasionally a scrap 
of bacon. 

In the making of bread it is not unlawful to use 
flour, or the meal of wheat, barley, rye, oats, buck- 
wheat, maize, rice, beans, pease ; also potatoes, along 
with salt, eggs, water, milk, and leaven or yeast 
of any kind. The commonest adulterant is alum, 
which enables the baker to give to bread of inferior 
flavour the whiteness of the best kind, and also 
to increase its weight through the retention of more 
moisture. 

All bread, except fancy breads, must be sold by 
weight ; if it is not wheaten, it should be stamped 
with the letter iVI. 

The " Scarcity " riots in the eighteenth and nine- 
teenth centuries, which to the period of the " Himgry 
Forties " occurred at intervals, were often marked 
by the burning of mills and the looting of bakers' 
shops. 



XVII 

SEASONAL FESTIVALS AND PERIODIC FEASTINGS 

Eating together as an expression of sociability — The Roman Saturn- 
alia — Corresponding revels in Middle Ages — " Feast of Fools," 
&c.— The Christian Year, a cycle of religious feasts— Yule 
feasts and Yule cakes — Genesis of the Christmas pudding — ^The 
mince-pie — Goose eaten at three festivals — The boar's head — 
The "hackin," or great Christmas sausage — Twelfth cake — 
Pancakes — Carlings — Collops — Mothering Sunday — Maundy 
"loaves and fishes" — Easter eggs — Tansy cakes — Hot-cross 
buns — Whitsun summer fare — Local festivities — Wakes — Flauns 
— Non-religious feasts — May-day junketings — Shearers' feast, 
a pastoral celebration — Harvest Home, an agricultural feast — 
Lammas, or loaf-mass — Wayzgoose — Martinmas — Life epoch 
feastings — Christening cake — ^Wedding breakfast — Bride-cake 
— Honeymoon — Funeral feasting — ^The " Sin-eater." 

Man is a sociable animal, and expresses life's 
sociability, by neglecting no opportunity to eat in 
company. Men seldom fail to comte together to 
eat, upon any occasion that can be made to offer 
the least excuse for so doing. 

The Saturnalia of the Romans were a striking 
example from ancient paganism. Every year, for one 
short week in December, the worship of Saturn was 
conducted with licentious revelUngs, into which 
entered, as a matter of course, much eating and drink- 
ing. All business was suspended, and none were to be 
found at work except the cooks and confectioners ; 
everywhere tables were spread out for feasting, and 

13 193 



194 GOOD CHEER 

nothing was heard but shouts of merriment. No 
account of expenses was allowed to be kept, and 
one-tenth of a man's income was devoted to this 
celebration. Slaves were allowed the utmost freedom', 
even to changing places with their masters. Glasses 
of all sizes were to be ready, so that all might 
drink when and where they chose. Everywhere were 
dancing, singing, music, and the grosser pleasures, 
which have made the naine of this celebration a 
byword. 

Traces of this institution are to be found among 
the more ancient nations ; and some few of its 
observances found their way into the offices of the 
Christian Church. It is only by tracing them to the 
Roman Saturnalia that we can account for a number 
of the grotesque sports which long continued under 
Christianity — the Feast of Asses, the Feast of Fools, 
the Feast of the Bull, the Feast of the Innocents, 
and other profane festivals practised with the tacit 
consent of the Church during the Middle Ages. 

In olden times the whole Christian year was & 
cycle of religious feasts. The merest glance at the 
customs with which they were severally celebrated 
will show that many of them' appropriated for their 
due observance some specialised comestible or some 
special dish to be eaten under certain ceremonial 
conditions. And not a few of these observances, as 
has been suggested, might be traced back to ante- 
Christian practices. Let us begin with the greatest 
of the Christian festivals. 

In ancient Scandinavia, to which we trace the 
origins of so many English customs, a most magni- 
ficent festival in honour of the god Thor commenced 
the winter solstice. It was commemorative of the 
Creation ; for, being the longest night in the year, 
our pagan progenitors assigned to it the formation 
of the world from primeval darkhess, and called it 



SEASONAL FESTIVALS 195 

"Mother-Night." The festival Was dominated by 
Yule or Yeol. When Christianity superseded the 
rites of pagan worship the Anglo-Saxons expressed 
the greatest reluctance to relinquish this annual 
rejoicing. To insure success to their preaching, 
therefore, the missionaries applied the festival to the 
Nativity of Chtist, which hence acquired the name of 
Yule-feast. The celebration of the idolatrous 
festival was most sumptuous and splendid ; for 
it was believed that the succeeding season would 
be fruitful or unproductive according to the profusion 
or parsimony which was observed on this occasion. 
The peace-offerings dedicated to Thor were calkes 
of fine flour, sweetened with honey — hence the 
Christian Yule-caike. 

The Yule-cake made its appearance upon the 
hospitaBle board amidst the gaiety and other good 
cheer of Christmas Eve. An abundance of cake 
was provided, which was cut into slices, toasted, 
aud soaked in spicy ale. Some of it was carefully 
reserved for Christmas Day, just as some of the 
plumTcak'e provided on this day had to be kept 
till New Year's Day or the succeeding year would 
be unlucky. /.^.-.^ >^"cA., -^. .,'■.■■'■' '"^ * ~ ■'■ ^X<., 

The Christmas plum-pudding is also traced to a 
Teutonic origin. In Germany it used to be plum- ' 
squash (Pflaumen-griUze), a soft, squashy mess re- 
sulting from the extraction of the juices from' fresh 
plums J on the Danish borderland it is still so made. 
A black plum-squash is mixed with fine-grained rice 
or pearl barley or groats ; these grains are regarded 
as representative of next year's favourable harvest. 

Very similar is the " big duff " (Grosse Klosse) 
of Lower Saxony, which is boiled in a cloth ; this, 
transferred to England, and cooked with plums, has 
become plum-pudding, thoug'h the plums are now 
raisins. For the groats, refined flour has been sub- 



196 GOOD CHEER 

stituted, and butter has given way, naturally enough 
in a land of beefeaters, to beef suet. It has even 
been suggested that the practice of pouring spirit 
over the Christmas pudding and setting it afire is a 
relic of the fire worship — fire as symbolic of the 
returning sun — with which our pag'an ancestors cele- 
brated this midwinter festival. 

It is worthy of note that the famous " Mrs. Glasse " 
gives a recipe for " plumb -porridge for Christmas." 
(A long chapter in the same work, on the subject 
of Lenten diet, gives various onion and fish soups as 
suitable dishes to " fast " upon.) 

Since that time, however, the " porridge " has 
given way to the more inviting " pudding," which, 
on the authority of the Lancet, is not so unwhole- 
some as most people think. At which let us rejoice. 

" Who pours the brandy in libation free 
Finds rich plum-pudding realised in thee ! 
Chaunts the high hymn of themes that far surpass 
The luxuries of honour'd Mrs. Glasse." 

It is the writer of these heroic rhymes who also 
apostrophises the mince -pie : — 

" Oh, King of Gates, whose pastry-bounded reign 
Is felt and own'd o'er Pastry's wide domain," 

Dr. Parr, by the way, was quite wrong in rebuking 
a lady for caJling these cates by that appellation 
rather^than by that of Christmas pies. Cavalier as 
well as Puritan commonly used the name descriptive 
of the contents of the pie — not the name which spoke 
of the season in which the pie was eaten. For the 
rest, the mince-pie of our forefathers was, as may 
be guessed, a richer one than our own, and invariably 
contained minced flesh-meat, generally beef or veal. 
The " Compleat Cook " of 1655 recommends a little 
verjuice. 



SEASONAL FESTIVALS 197 

The mince-pie was regarded with holy aversion 
by the Puritans ; but Addison, in the Spectator, 
made mincemeat of their opinions : — 

"The Christmas pye," he wrote, "is in its own nature a kind of 
consecrated cake, and a badge of distinction ; and yet it is often 
forbidden to the Druid of the family. Strange I that a sirloin of 
beef, whether boiled or roasted, when entire, is exposed to his 
utmost depredations and incisions, but if minced into small pieces 
and tossed up with plums and sugar, changes its property, and, 
forsooth, is meat for his master." 

Herrick directed among his " Ceremonies for 
Christmasse " that the revellers should 

"Drink now the strong beere. 

Cut the white loaf here, 
The while the meat is a-shredding ; 

For the rare Mince-Pie 

And the Plums stand by 
To fill the Paste that's a-kneading," 

Little Jack Horner, the hero of nursery rhyme, was 
able to find a plum in his Christmas pie, and e'en to 
make that great discovery without the aid of fork 
or spoon. It was the admixture of plums with 
minced meat that gave the pie its distinctive feature., 
Mince-pies were popular imder the name of " mutton- 
pies " as early as 1596, mutton then being one of the 
ingredients. The paste in which they were made 
was supposed to imitate the cratch or manger of 
the Christ-qhild. As to the " mince," it was merely 
sausage-meat " at large," and one form of the spoon 
meat in universal use before the invention of forks. 

But there were other items of Christmas fare 
equally well honoured. No idle cooks were to be 
found in the old Christmas -time. Early in the 
morning the " hackin " (or great sausage) had to 
be boiled ready for breakfast. Then commenced the 
great preparation for dinner. 



198 GOOD CHEER 

The Christmas roast goose seems to have been 
once a goose-pie, for Allan Ramsay writes : — 

"Ay at yule whene'er they came 
A braw goose-pie." 

Formerly more honour was done to the goose at 
Martinmas and at Michaelmas than at Christmas, 
when it was baked in a " pye *" by the rich, for 
distribution to their poor neighbours- 

The ancient ceremonial dish at the Christmas feast 
was the boar's head, a course served roasted or 
boiled, on a platter decorated with laurel-leaves and 
brought to table in a procession. Its advent was 
greeted by the company in a beautiful carol, a 
ceremony still kept up at Queen's College, Oxford, 
and which has come down from the time when ^vild 
boars were to be found near that ancient University 
city. The carol runs : — 

"The boar's head in hand bear I, 
Bedeck'd with bays and rosemary ; 
And I pray you, my masters, be merry, 
Quot estit in convivio. 
Caput Apri defero 
Reddens laudes Domino. 

The boar's-head, as I understand, 
Is the rarest dish in all this land, 
Which thus bedeck'd with a gay garland 
Let us servire cantico. 

Caput Apri defero 

Reddens laudes Domino. 

Our steward hath provided this 
In honour of the King of Bliss, 
Which on this day to be serv'd is 
In reginensi atrio 

Caput Apri defero 
Reddens laudes Domino." 



SEASONAL FESTIVALS 199 

The strains of merry minstrelsy, accompanied by 
the jubilant flourish of trumpets, of which this famous 
carol reminds us, belonged to the brave old days 
of feasting. (Then comes the Puritan period, when 
the bare idea "of such exuberant festivity was 
obnoxious, when the irmocent mince-pie and 
Christmas pudding were regarded as accursed. 

" AH plums the prophet's sons deny, 
And spice broths are too hot ; 
Treason's in a December pie 
And death within the pot I "J 

Or as another rhymester put it:— 

"The high-shoe lords of Cromwell's making 
Were not for dainties — rpasting, baking ; 
The chiefest food they found most good in 
Was rusty bacon and bag-pudding." 

Geese, capons, pheasants drenched with amber- 
gris, and pies of carps' tongues helped to furnish 
the tables in those bygone Christmases ; but there 
was one nqjtional dish — neither fish, flesh, fowl, nor 
good red herring— -which was held indispensable. 
This was furmety or frumenty, made of hulled wheat, 
boiled^ in milk, and seasoned. 

Twelfth Day — January 6th, or twelve days after 
Christmas, ordered to be kept as a holiday in the 
reign of Alfred— was always celebrated with a 
twelfth cake. A piece of pleasantry was to insert 
a bean in the cake ; and the family and friends 
being all assembled when it was divided, whoever 
was lucky enough to get the slice containing the 
bean had the happy privilege of being " King of 
the Bean " for that day and the ruler of the revels. 
And Twelfth Day revels were not the least of the 
merrymakings which marked the glad New Year. 
Baddeley, the comedian (who had been cook' to 



200 GOOD CHEER 

Foote), left by will money to provide cake and wine 
for the performers in the green-room of Drury Lane 
Theatre on Twelfth Night. Formerly, in London, 
the confectioners' shops on this day were filled with 
twelfth cakes, which ranged in price from a few 
shillings to several guineas. Some of them were 
huge things, and all were highly decorated. In far- 
away times the people " censed " the twelfth cake as 
a charm against sickness and witchcraft throughout 
the year, " Eche maister in his house doth burne 
franckensence and on the table settes a loafe " for 
" safetie all the yeare." 

The long Lenten fast was ushered in by a hearty 
indulgence in pancakes upon the Shrove Tuesday. 
Several child-rhymes celebrate the delight! of this 
dainty, or associate it with its ecclesiastical origin : — 

"The pancakes made of milk and beer 
Are made for no one present here; 
There's one for Peter, two for Paul, 
And three for Him who made ns all." 

The allusion heire is to the superstition which 
induced the cook to set aside the first three as sacred. 
The rhyme with which schoolboys welcomed the 
" pancake bell," which was rung from the church 
steeple at noontide, varied according to circum- 
stances. One version ran : — 

"Pancakes and fritters 
Say the bells of St. Peter's" ; 

though the variant of more universal application 
was : — 

" Pan on, pan on, 
Pull the big one off, put the little one on I 
Pan on, pan on I 



SEASONAL FESTIVALS 201 

On the Palm Sunday, and in some parts on the 
previous Sunday (knovvn as Carling Sunday), it was 
customary to eat carlings — grey peas, steeped all 
night in water, and fried the next day with butter. 
The child-rhyme was : — 

" Care Sunday, care away 
Palm Sunday and Easter day.'' 

A soup made of grey peas and bacon was formerly 
given away to their customers by all Black Country 
innkeepers on the Shrove Tuesday, or Fasten's E'en 
as it was sometimes called. 

The Shrove Monday was called Collop Monday 
because on that day the people took leave of a 
flesh diet, either of fresh or of salted meat. The 
collops were sometimes large slices of bacon. The 
Saturday was known in some parts as Egg Saturday 
for a corresponding reason. 

Though the fast days of Lent were rigorously 
observed in pre -Reformation times, the English were 
not above indulging in fish-pies of a specially rich 
and delicious make. 

/Ipn the Mid-Lent Sunday, commonly known as 
Mothering Sunday, because the young married couples 
made a practice of visiting their parents' homes on 
this day, the customary dinner in many parts of 
England consisted of a roast loin of veal and a 
laid pudding — the latter so called because it con- 
sisted of layers of raisins and currants, alter- 
nating with delicious custard -soiaked teacakes. > 

Michaelmas Sunday, at the opposite season of the 
year, saw the Michaelmas goose on the table ; a 
young stubble -fed bird, tendet and juicy, and quite 
distinct in flavour from the super-fatted Christmas 
goose. As just mentioned, the same savoury dish 
also appeared six weeks later, at Martinmas. 



202 GOOD CHEER 

" To belly-cheer, yet once again, 
Doth Martin more incline. 
Whom all the people worshippeth 
With roasted goose and wine.'' 

The old custom of distributing the King's bounty 
on Maundy Thursday is well known. In former 
times the royal gifts included a dinner in the 
Banqueting -house, AVJiitehall, of boiled beef and 
shoulders of mutton and small bowls of ale. After 
that each person was given a large wooden platter 
of fish and loaves — namely, one large ling, one dried 
cod, twelve red herrings, and twelve white herrings 
(all undressed), with four half -quartern loaves. This 
was the scriptufal fare of " loaves and fishes," 
generously interpreted. 

In some parts of England it seems to have been 
the custom, after rolling about and playing with 
the Easter eggs — which were hard-boiled and dyed 
of some bright colour — to eat them. More wide- 
spread in ancient times was the Eastertide custom 
of ecclesiastics and laics playing at ball in the 
churches for tansy-cakes. A very elaborate recipe 
for inaking a tansy — which was a " bitter;-sweet " 
— appeared in a work published in 1676, entitled 
" A True Gentlewoman's Delight." An old rhyme 
alludes to the practice : — 

" At stool-ball, Lucia, let us play 
For sugar, cakes, and wine ; 
Or for a tansy let us pay — 
The loss be mine or thine." 

The tansy in the Easter pudding symbolised the 
bitter herbs eaten by the Jews at Passover. 

The Easter egg is emblematical of the resurrec- 
tion frojn the dead, as by incubation a living 
creature is produced from a dormant state resembling 
death. But as it was used more for presentation 



SEASONAL FESTIVALS 203 

than for eating, its history and lore need not be 
considered further. The more popular comestible 
which represents this season is the " hot cross bun " 
eaten on Good Friday. 

Properly made, the hot cross bun was said to 
be keepable for years, and the crumbs of a special 
bread made on Good Friday were carefully con- 
served to be taken in water as a medicine when 
required. 

Most of our anniversary cakes are of unknown 
origin, but the probability is that the hot cross bun 
has taken the place of a pagan sweetmeat eaten 
in honour of the goddess Eastre, which, in order 
to make it acceptable at the time when Christianity 
was introduced, would be marked with the sign of 
the cross and thus become a Christian cake. Eastre 
was the Saxon goddess of the East, whose feast was 
celebrated in the spring. At one time it was no 
uncommon thing for the housewife to mark her 
loaves with the holy sign to prevent the devil from 
interfering with the baking. Good Friday being, 
above all days in the year, an unlucky day, all the 
more reason why cakes baked and eaten then should 
be so marked. 

The third great holiday festival of the year, 
Whitsuntide, does not seem to have had any parti- 
cular dish or edible consecrated to it, although in 
some parts of the country the Wihitsunday dinner 
was deemed an appropriate time to enjoy the first 
quarter of lajnb. Then some of the minor Church 
festivals were also marked by the annual appear- 
ance of certain comestibles on the date of their 
observance . 

The wakes were originally ecclesiastical festivals 
held on the day of the saint to which the parish 
church was dedicated. As the different churches 
were dedicated to different saints, these patronal 



204 GOOD CHEER 

festivals occurrecLat various times of the year, though 
most of them came between Whitsuntide and Christ- 
mas (known in the Church as the non-festal period, 
and therefore convenient for local celebrations), and 
all of them were celebrated with feasting. The 
characteristic debauchery, of these celebrations is 
well illustrated in " The Village Fair," a large friese 
by the German artist Beham. 

In Lincolnshire, at one village called Nettleham, 
the wake fell upon Eastertide, and for some reason 
was called the Flaun. The custom was to eat a. 
kind of cheese-cake, locally known as a flaun, a 
name said to be derived from the Saxon flena, signify- 
ing pastry. The tertn " flaun," as employed in other 
parts, included pancakes and custards. Scott, in his 
novel " The Abbot," puts into the mouth of old 
Dryfesdale this proverb : " He that is hanged in 
May will eat no flaunes at Midsummer." An old 
distich would appear to make the flaun the usual 
accompaniment of a wake : — 

" Fill oven full of flauns, Ginny pass not for sleep, 
To-morrow thy father his wake-day will keep." 

Also Ben Jonson (1637) has this allusion :— 

" Your cheese-cakes, curdes, and clowted cream 
Your fools, your flauns." 

The term " fool," as used in cookery, was doubt- 
less suggested by the synonym " trifle," a kind of 
clotted cream. 

Then there were the non-religious seasonal feast- 
ings. 

May-day was formerly marked in Cornwall and 
Devon by the eating of junkets — curds sweetened 
with sugar, with double cream added', and flavoured 
with cinnamon— whence the term " junketing " to 




" ^ Ij 

^ .H ^ 

§ ■§ I 
SIS 



g ^ 






B .S ^ 
O o -:: 

> 



SEASONAL FESTIVALS 205 

signify indulgence in gaiety, and festivity. In 
Gloucestershire this festive day was once utilised 
to honour the production of its native dairies, the 
famous Gloucester cheese. At Randwick, near 
Stroud, the custom was to carry in procession to 
the church three cheeses, decked with flowers, on 
three litters, to the accompaniment of shout, song, 
and music . There they were divested of their decora- 
tions and rolled three times round the church. They 
were then rehabilitated, carried back to the village 
in the same state, and finally cut up for distribution 
among the inhabitants . 

Robert Bloomfield would have us believe that the 
grand old English squire of the eighteenth century 
made it a practice to feast his tenants on May-day — 

"Not a face was there 
But, for May-day at least, had banished care. 
Freedom was there, and joy in every eye. 
Such scenes were England's boast in days gone by." 

The poem is idyllic, but history, grimly prosaic, 
does not smile assent. 

Associated with man's most ancient industry was 
the pastoral festivity to which Milton makes allusion 
in " Lycidas " : — 

"Such as for their bellies' sake, 
Creep and intrude, and climb into the fold. 
Of other care they little reckoning make 
Than how to scramble at the shearers' feast." 

The Shearers' Feast was celebrated as soon as the 
last timid sheep had, with a mighty leap, cleared 
well away ffom the clipping-pen, and given that 
free, joyous shake of its naked skin so expifessive 
of its gratification. The celebration generally 
occurred about Midsummer Day, and the festivity 
was marked by song and dance, and rustic sports. 



206 GOOD CHEER 

accompanied, of course, by an amount of eating and 
drinking . 

" How the high bowl was in the middle set 
At breakfast time, when clippers yearly met, 
Filled full of furmety, where dainty swum 
The streaking sugar and the spotting plum." 

This was the pastoral feast ; then there was the 
Harvest Home, when, all being safely garnered in, the 
farmer held a feast in his bam to signalise the 
triumphs of agriculture. This rural celebration bore 
various names in different parts of the country. In 
some counties it was known as the Harvest Supper ; 
in Yorkshire it was the Mel-Supper, the reapers all 
shouting " Mel 1 " as they brought the last load 
hiome ; and in Kent it was known as the Kem 
Supper. " Kerning " meant corn-bearing, and an 
image dressed up with corn, which the reapers 
carried before them, was called the " Kem Baby." 
In the North of England the name Chum Supper 
was used ; but whatever the name, the origin seems 
to have been derived from the Levitical injunction, 
"... and shall reap the harvest thereof, then ye 
shall bring a sheaf, the first fruits of your harvest, 
unto the priest." The Jews celebrated the Feast of 
Harvest, and a similar institution was known in 
Ancient Greece. 

At the English feast of the In -gathering, the last 
grain cut was brought home on its wagon, called 
the Hock Cart, surmounted by a figure formed of 
a sheaf with gay dressings, presumably to represent 
the Goddess Ceres. 

" Home came the jovial Hockey load, 
Last of the whole year's crop ; 
And Grace among the green boughs rode 
Right plump upon the top." 



SEASONAL FESTIVALS 207 

The hospitality of the old-fashioned harvest supper 
is now almost a thing of the past. The Harvest 
Festivals of the Church seem to have taken its place. 

Another forgotten festival was Lammas, kept on 
the first of August. It was of pagan origin, and 
celebrated the realisation of the first-fruits of the 
earth, and more particularly, the grain harvest. 
When Christianity was introduced the day continued 
to be observed as a festival on these grounds, and 
from a loaf being the usual offering at church, the 
service on that day came to be called " Hlaf-mass " 
or " Loaf -mass," subsequently shortened to Lammas. 

Allied with these industrial celebraltions was the 
Bean Feast or Wayzgoose. This was the annual 
feast given to workpeople and apprentices in other 
fomis of labour by their employers. The former 
name indicates that it originally occurred in the 
bean season, when that article of diet entered largely 
into the bill of fare on such occasions ; the other 
term shows that sometimes the crowning dish of 
the entertainment was a wayz -goose — that is, a stubble 
goose, wayz literally meaning " a bundle of straw." 

In Northumberland, at the great winter slaughter- 
ing of beasts, at Martinmas, puddings were made 
by stuffing the entrails with " pudding-meat," con- 
sisting of blood, suet, and groats ; when boiled they 
were called black-puddings. It is interesting to note 
that a similar celebration took place in Germany, 
and it was called the "feast of sausages." This 
day was a great festival on the Continent, the new 
wines then being tasted for the first time. 

Naturally the three great epochs in the life of 
a man — his entrance into the world, his selection of 
his life's partner, and his departure from the world 
— ^have been made the occasion of religious obser- 
vances, all of them duly accompanied by appro- 
priate f eastings. 



208 GOOD OHBBR 

Wlien the infant is christened there must be a 
family gathering round the festive board to welcome 
the new-comer. Though the child cannot t^e part 
in this festivity, honour is supposed to be done it 
by the provision of a christening cake for the com- 
pany to eat. 

Later in life comes that curious nondescript meal 
known as the Wedding Breakfast, the piece de resist- 
ance of which is another of those cakes which we 
seem to overtake like milestones on the journey of 
life. The feast on this occasion is a Breakfast be- 
cause the " haste to the wedding " is supposed to 
preclude the possibility of a meal till the ceremony 
is over. 

A Bride Cake was originally composed of many 
rich and aromatic ingredients, and crowned with an 
icing made of white sugar and bitter almonds, 
emblematical of the pleasure and pain which are 
incidental to the married state. 

An important ceremony was that of passing small 
portions of the wedding cake through the wedding 
ring, and it had to be perforfmed with scrupulous 
exactness . The bride (■ held the ring between the 
finger and thumb of h^ir right hand, through which 
the groom passed each portion of the cake nine 
times, previously cut by other individuals of the 
party into disposable pieces for the purpose. These 
he delivered in succession to the bride's -maids, who 
sealed them up carefully and regarded them as 
amulets of inestimable value. 

If the fair maid deposited this amulet in the foot 
of her left stocking, and placed it under her pillow 
on going to rest, she would surely dream of the 
man destined by fate to be her partner for life. 

Among the Romans it was customary to eat walnuts 
at weddings. The " double robe " of this nut, con- 
sisting of the soft husk and the hard shell, were 



SEASONAL FESTIVALS 209 

supposed to resemble the membranes wherein the 
embryo infant was enfolded. The bridegroom also 
scattered nuts for boys to scramble after, thereby 
intimating that henceforth the new husband intended 
to lay aside the sports of boyhood. 

The first month after marriage is termed the 
honeymoon, a name derived from the custom of the 
ancient Teutonic nations of indulging themselves in 
the drinking of a liquor made from honey, for thirty 
days successively, after the marriage of their chief 
men. 

Last stage of all, when life's fretful journey is 
o'er, are the funeral customs, which, in bygone days, 
were as numerous as they were Strange. When a 
large company was invited to grace the obsequies, 
an attendant went round among the guests to serve 
them with ale or with wine, and in the handle of 
the containing tankard was always a piece of lembn- 
peel— possibly to represent the bitterness of death. 
In Yorkshire guests were given light sweetened cakes 
to eat, sometimes accompanied by hot spiced ale. 
Or if the funeral were in the house of the richer 
sort, instead of ale burnt wine and savoy biscuits 
were given. In either case some of the cake or 
biscuit had to be carried home to the family, and 
the paper in which these were wrapped was printed 
on one side with a coffin, skull and cross-bones, 
hour-glass and spades, or other symbols of mortality, 
and were sealed with black wax. 

The Romans not only feasted the friends of the 
deceased, but distributed meat to the persons em- 
ployed ; in olden England food was similarly dis- 
tributed among the poor. 

" Thrift, thrift, Horatip ! the funeral baked meats 
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables." 

No more curious custom ever existed than that 

14 



210 GOOD CHEER 

performed in ancient times by the person known as 
the " Sin-eater," who attended a funeral and took 
upon himself, for a small consideration, the sins of 
the deceased, whose soul might thus be delivered 
from purgatory. The sin^eater, generally a poor 
old man, came to the door of the house in which the 
deceased lay, and one of the family took out to him 
a " cricket " (or low stool) upon which he sat, facing 
the door. He was then given a groat to put in 
his pocket, a crust of bread to eat, and a bowl 
of ale, which he drank at a draught. After this 
ceremonial performance, he rose from his seat and 
solemnly pronounced " the ease and rest of the soul 
departed, for which he would pawn his own soul." 
Surely the idea of this remarkable custom was 
borrowed from that of the Jewish scapegoat. 



XVIII 1 

LOCAL COMESTIBLES OF WIDESPREAD FAME 

A ready supply of raw material necessary — Cornish squab pies — 
Pates de foies gras — Oxford mutton pies — Eccles cakes — Pom- 
fret cakes — Banbury cakes — Richmond " Maids of Honour " — 
Legend of the Simnel cake — Shrewsbury cakes — Chelsea buns 
— "Sally Lunns" — Bath buns — Scones — Newark Penny Loaf 
Day — Kidderminster Farthing Loaf Day. 

Certain desirable comestibles have their names in- 
separably associated with the place of their origin 
or native invention, as Yorkshire pudding and Nor- 
folk dumplings, Yarmouth bloaters and Aberdeen 
haddocks. This is particularly the case with some 
of our daintiest cakes, and, in some instances, it is 
doubtful whether one ever gets the genuine article 
outside the place of its origin — say, a Bakewell 
pudding elsewhere than in Derbyshire. 

Two conditions were no doubt necessary to thfj 
commercial building up of a reputation for any local' 
edible — an abundant or a special supply of the w: 
raw material constituting the ingredients or base 57 
worked upon ; and the enterprise or talent to takei'd 
advantage of that supply, and develop it to the -^ 
fullest of its possibilities. Not a few local reputa- 
tions of this kind, however, have been made by 
pure accident . 

The most universally known of all local dishes 
is surely Yorkshire pudding— batter enriched by the 



212 GOOD CHEER 

gravy of a roasted joint. But Yorkshire fame in the 
matter seems to be quite fortuitous. Lincolnshire 
used to indulge in a pie of eels and ox -tails. Eel- 
pies were not unknown on the Thames, nor herring- 
pies at Yarmouth. 

" Cornwall squab pie, and Devon white-pot brings ; 
And Leicester beans and bacon, food of kings." 

In the Cornish squab pie fish, apples, onions, and 
pork are all incongruously blended. The Cornish 
pasty now sold in London for luncheon or supper 
dishes is baked torpedo -shape, and contains pork, 
rabbit, beef, kidney, parsley, potatoes, onions, bacon, 
and other ingredients. This is incongruity. Now 
for inhumanity in the concoction of a delicacy. 

When Strasbourg first became famous for its 
pates de foie gras, a cruel practice was resorted 
to for enlarging the birds' livers at the expense of 
the other parts of its body. The geese were placed 
alive in an oven which was gradually heated until 
the liver attained its greatest size. This practice 
has long been abolished, and the birds are now 
closely confined to prevent their moving, while they 
are fed on a nourishing paste, and given sulphurated 
water to drink. Thus is progress marked by the 
refinement of cruelty. By the French the goose is 
little esteemed, its flesh being considered coarse and 
unwholesome. The livers and thighs, however, made 
into pies, and properly truffled— /ja/^s de foie gras — 
are reckoned by their gastronomers as very delicate. 
The department of Perigord, with Toulouse and 
Bayonne, used to cook annually for the rest of the 
world 120,000 of these "lethiferous pies." 

Oxford, in the middle of the eighteenth century, 
had its well-known pastrycook, Ben Tyrrell, who 
was famous among the undergraduates of his day 
for the excellence of his mutton -pies. 



FAMOUS LOCAL COMESTIBLES 213 

" Let Christmas boast her customary treat, 
A mixture strange of suet, currants, meat, 
Where various tastes combine, the greasy and the sweet ; 
Let glad Shrove Tuesday bring the pancake thin, 
Or fritter rich, with apples stored within; 
On Easter Sunday be the pudding seen, 
To which the tansey lends her sober green ; 
And when great London hails her annual Lord, 
Let quiv'ring custard crown the aldermanic board. 

But Ben prepares a more delicious mess, 
Substantial fare, a breakfast for Quess Bess. 
What dainty epicure, or greedy glutton. 
Would not prefer his pie thafs made of mutton ? 

Each difEerent country boasts a diff'rent taste, 
And owes its fame to pudding and to paste; 
Squab pie in Cornwall only can they make. 
In Norfolk dumplings, and in Salop cake ; 
But Oxford now from all shall bear the prize, 
Fam'd, as for sausages, for mutton pies." 

From famous pastry we pass next to confectionery 
of far-reaching repute, merely calling attention by 
the way to Gloucester's royal lamprey pies, mentioned 
on p. 88, 

The Eccles cake, indigenous to the Lancashire 
town which names it, is an ancient edible surviving 
some religious festival of the place, the origin 
of which, as the name implies, was connected with 
the Church. 

Pomfret cakes advertise the name of the small 
but ancient borough of Pontefract, and are made 
of liquorice, a plant much grown in the neighbour- 
hood. 

The Banbury cake is an oval piece of pastry 
of exquisite flaky sweetness, unrivalled throughout 
England to this day. 

Banbury is more celebrated for its cakes than for 
any, of the political or historic episodes with which its 
name has been connected. Its staple commodities 
once seem to have been cheese and cakes ; the 



214 GOOD CHEER 

former, even in Shakespeare's time, appear to have 
been celebrated ; for Bardolph, w^hen accused by 
Slender of robbing him of his tw^o milled sixpences, 
exclaims, " You Banbury cheese I " This compari- 
son was in allusion to his thinness, the Banbury 
cheese being a rich milk cheese of only an inch 
in thickness. A local saying was of similar 
significance — '* As thin as a Banbury cheese, nothing 
but paring." There is a recipe for making Banbury 
Cheese in MS. Sloane, 1201. 

The historian of Richmond, Surrey, says that the 
visitor to that charming spot would make but a 
very incomplete pilgrimage if he did not turn into a 
confectioner's shop and lunch on the delicious cheese- 
cakes called " Maids of Honour," for whicli the 
place is so famous. The cakes are said to have 
been so named by George II., because they were 
introduced to the royal table by some of the Queen's 
maids of honour. In the time of George III. the 
tables at Windsor and at Kew were regularly supplied 
with these cheese-cakes. They are now manufactured 
at almost all the confectioners' shops in the town, 
but it is unknown where the original patent or recipe 
for their composition came from. A sensation was 
once created by a report that a thousand pounds 
had been given for this patent, upon which occa- 
sion the wits delivered themselves of the comment 
epigrammatio ♦J — 



" Some recipes are rather dearly bought. 
Such as quack remedies for all diseases ; 
Powders and pills with such rare virtue fraught 
That no man needs to die unless he pleases. 

But let us speak of him, that man of sweets, 
Of buns and tarts, preserves, and patties savoury, 

Who gives the folks at Richmond luscious treats — 
He really must have been a man of bravery. 



FAMOUS LOCAL COMESTIBLES 213 

For lo I he gave for one small recipe — 
And Sure he must be deemed a splendid donor — 

A sum that might well solace you and me, 
One thousand pounds to make a Maid of Honour." 

Whatever happened a century or so ago, the patent 
is now thrown open to all the cuisiniers of the town 
and, as the jokers there say, " men of reputation 
sfill naaids of honour for a penny." For a couple 
of centuries the famous cakes have been the subject 
of numerous jokes and riddles. Lord .William 
Lennox once propounded the conundrum, " Where 
would a soldier choose to be quartered at Rich- 
mond? " Answer : " At Billet's, for there he would 
be sure to meet with an excellent billet among the 
Maids of Honour." Billet, of course, was a well- 
known pastrycook in the town. Then there was 
the joke played off upon the lady visitor who was 
a stranger to Richmond. " Don't you know this is 
so courtly a place, and so completely under the 
influence of State etiquette, that everything in Rich- 
mond is called after the functionaries of the palace? 
For instance, a capon here is called a Lord Chamber- 
lain, a goose is called a Lord Steward, a gooseberry- 
tart an Usher of the Black Rod, and so forth." The 
lady presently convulsed the whole party by asking 
the servant, in the blandest of tones, to bring up an 
" Usher of the Black Rod," if she had one cold in 
the house ! 

It will be seen that these famous cakes at least 
conspire, with Maid of Honour Row on Richmond 
Green, to keep alive the memory of the bygone glories 
of the place. London's famous thoroughfare, Picca;- 
dilly, derives its name (according to Pennant the 
antiquary) from " a sort of cake or turnover called 
Piccadillas which were sold in the fields about there." 

The cost and description (as contained in the 
Lansdowne MSS.) of a Richmond dinner some three 



216 GOOD CHEER 

hundred and fifty years ago may be interesting for 
two reasons. The record siiows the intimate con- 
nection between the Court and Richmond in an earlier 
era than that of George II. ; and the item 
" Maiden's Gains " suggests itself as an earlier name 
for "Maids of Honour." About Christmas, in 1508, 
some of the Court ofiScials of Henry VIII. dined 
together at the village of Shene, now called Rich- 
mond, the following being the items of the bill : — 

" For brede, I2d. ; ale, 3s. 4d. ; wyne, lod. ; two leynes mutton, 
8d. ; maribones, 6d. ; poudred beef, sd. ; two capons, 2S. ; two 
geese, i4d. ; five conyes, i5d. ; one legge moton, 51b. weight, 4d. ; 
six plovers, i8d. ; six pigeons, 5d. ; two dozen larkes, i2d. ; salt 
sauce, 6d. ; butter and eggs, lod. ; maiden's gaynes, lad. ; herbes, 
id. ; spices, 2S. 4d. ; floure, 4d. ; whight cuppes and cruses, 6d." 

It was an old custom in some parts of the country 
to make, during Lent and Easter, a kind of rich 
and expensive pastry called Simnel cake. They 
were raised cakes, the crust of which was made 
with) fine flour and water, coloured a deep yellow 
with saffron, and the interior was filled with the 
materials of a very rich plum cake, with plenty 
of candied lemon -peel and other goodies on the top. 
The name Simnel is derived from the Latin simila, 
" fine flour." The father of Lambert Simnel, the 
well-known pretender to the crovm of Henry VII., 
was said to be a bakter, and a maker of Simnel 
cakes. A Shropshire legend pretends that these 
cakes were first made at Shrewsbury by an honest 
couple named Simon and Nelly, who quarrelled about 
the method of cooking their joint production, one 
wanting to bake it, the other to boil it. The dispute 
ended in a compromise — they agreed to boil it first 
and bake it afterwards, and in token of this blessed 
agreement they called it after their own conjoined 
names—" Sim-nell I " The legend has about as much 
truth in it as the majority of such tales. 



FAMOUS LOCAL COMESTIBLES 217 

At Christmas -time Shrewsbury shops are still 
redolent with the sweetness of Simnels, their shells 
of paste tinged with saffron, looking like golden 
caskets full of fruity richness. At the same season 
of the year the display of " Christmas brawn " shows 
that the Salopian capital also continues to uphold 
its reputation in this direction. 

The Shrewsbury cake is a lineal descendant of 
the ancient Simnel cake, and was once sold in great 
quantities to the thousands of visitors which the race- 
meetings attracted. The poet Shenstone speaks of 
this delicious sweet -cake " rend'ring through Britain's 
isle Salopian praises known." A famous maker of 
the delicacy was one Pailin. " Oh, Pailin 1 prince 
of cake -compounders I the mouth liquefies at thy 
very name I " exclaims the enthusiastic admirer. And 
as we may read in " Ingoldsby " — 

" She gave him a roll and a bun 
And a Shrewsbury cake 
Of Pailin's own make." 

The Shrewsbury cake is a very superior kind of 
" shortbread." 

Chelsea was famous for its buns two centuries 
ago. Swift, in his "Journal to Stella," 171 2, 
writes : — 

"Pray are not the buns sold here in our town as the rare 
Chelsea buns?" 

It was for many years the custom of the Royal 
Faimily, the nobility, and the gentry to patronise 
the Bun House in the morning. George II. and 
Queen Caroline and the princesses often paid visits, 
and so did George III. and Queen Charlotte. The 
last-named presented the proprietress, Mrs. Hand, 
with a large silver mug. 



218 GOOD CHEER 

These buns may possibly have originated as hot 
cross buns, and acquired so notable a reputation 
and so large a sale as to have made it profitajble 
to produce them all the year round. On Good Friday 
mornings their popularity was certainly extra- 
ordinary, and the C^ielsea Bun House always pre- 
sented a scene of great bustle on this day of the 
year, as many as fifty thousand persons assem- 
bling there, and buying these tasty wares to the 
extent of £250 worth. In 1793 a notice was 
posted on " The Royal Bun House " that in con- 
sequence of the disturbances which had occurred 
by the assembling of such a vast concourse on the 
previous Good Friday, no " Cross Bims " would be 
sold on that day, but only the " Chelsea Buns," as 
usual. After the closing of the Ranelagh Gardens 
the bun trade began to decline, though on the Good 
Friday of 1839 as many as twenty -four thousand 
buns were sold here. A few years later this once- 
famous rendezvous had been cleared away, and the 
Bun House collection of pictures and curiosities dis- 
persed. A new Bun House was erected in its place — 
— there were always rival and counterfeit establish- 
ments — but the glory of Chelsea's " Royal Bun 
House " was departed for ever. Chelsea enjoyed 
a reputation not only for well-spiced bims, but for 
custards as well, if we may judge from the follow- 
ing allusion to them by Gay, in his " Trivia " :— 

"When W and G , mighty names, are dead. 

Or but as Chelsea under custards read." 

AbQut the- end of the eighteenth, xentury a bun 
became popular in Bath by the name of -'-' Sally 
Luim." Sally Lunns originated through a young 
woman of that name crying them through the streets 
of the city night and morning, and selling them froffi 
a basket neatly dtaped with a w'hite cloth. Dalmer, 



FAMOUS LOCAL COMESTIBLES 219 

a respectable baker of Bath, w'ho was also a musician, 
noticed the girl and the trade she was doing, bought 
her business, and then made a song on the subject 
of " Sally Lunn," which he set to music. The com- 
position instantly became a great street favourite 
in Bath, the sale of the cakes increased enormously, 
and their distribution had to be made from barrows. 
The shrewd D aimer in time made a fortune out of 
his " Sally Lunns," which retain some vestige of 
their popularity to this day. 

The comestible known as the " Bath bun," and 
now sold everywhere throughout the kingdom, is 
distinct from this famous tea-cake ; it is a sweet 
bun of a somewhat stodgy type, and is popularly 
supposed to constitute, with a little milk, the average 
form of luncheon taken by mild curates. 

The rival tea-cake of Scotland is the scone, which 
upon its native heath is cooked on a griddle or 
hot-plate. 

The ancient town of Newark celebrates March i ith 
as Penny Loaf Day. During the siege of this 
place in the Great Civil War, Hercules Clay, a trades- 
man and alderman, dreamt three times that his house 
was in flames. The dream was so vivid that after 
its third repetition the worthy alderman hurriedly 
removed his family from the premises, and, sure 
enough, he had scarcely taken this precaution ere 
a bomb, fired by the Parliamentary Army, fell on 
the roof of his house and penetrated every one of the 
floors. To commemorate his preservation Alderman 
Clay left a sum of money to provide penny loaves 
for distribution annually among the poor of the town 
on this auspicious day. 

Kidderminster has its Farthing Loaf Day every 
Midsummer Eve, a similar charity founded by an 
old maid in far-away times, when loaves at this 
price were not the diminutives which now adorn the 
bakers' windows for the occasion. 



XIX 

COUNTY FEASTS 

County Associations in London — Attend Divine Service — And after- 
wards dine together — ^A Wiltshire Re-union, 1654 — A Hunting- 
don County Feast, 1678 — Yorkshire Society's first meeting, 
1678— "The Yorkshire Feast Song"— D'Urf ay's ode on "The 
Revolution " of 1688 — A Kentish Anniversary Feast, 1701 — 
Other county celebrations in London trade halls — Musical 
associations. 

During the latter half of the seventeenth century, 
and for many years after the commencement of that 
following, there were institutions knowni as County 
Feasts. These were annual assemblages of the 
gentry and others, natives of certain principal English 
counties, who were inhabitants of London. 

The celebration was commenced by the company 
attending Divine Service at one of the city churches 
(usually that of St. Mary-le-Bow), and hearing a 
sermon preached by a native of, or one holding 
preferment in, the county being honoured ; after- 
wards they dined together in the hall of one of the 
city companies hired for the occasion. 

When travelling facilities were few, slow, and un- 
certain, it may readily be conceived with what 
interest an annual assembly like a County Feast 
would be regarded. 

Not only was there the pleasant reunion of those 

long resident in the great city to talk over the 

220 



COUNTY FEASTS 221 

cherished recollections of old times, and scenes and 
beings far away ; but each year would possibly 
bring some later comer, whose tidings of the more 
recent doings in the much-loved locality would 
impart a fresh interest to the meeting. 

In 1654 the Men of .Wiltshire dined together ; the 
sermon preached on the occasion was published the 
following year with the title— 

"The First Dish at the Wiltshire Feast, November 9, 1654, or 
a Sermon Preached at Lawrence Jury to those that there offered 
their Peace Offerings, and went thence to Dine at Marchant-Taylors' 
Hall. By Samuel Annesley, LL.D. Minister of the Gospel at John 
Evangelist's, London.'' 

The sermons preached at the County Feasts 
appear to have generally been printed. 

The " Biographia Dramatica " mentions a piece 
entitled " The Huntingdon Divertisement ; or, an 
Enterlude for the general Entertainment at the 
County Feast held at Merchant Taylors' Hall, 
June 20, 1678," the scene of which, it tells us, lies 
in Hinchinbrooke grove, fields, and meadows. 

The men of Yorkshire met for their first feast 
on December 3, 1678. 

Occasionally more than ordinary pains were taken 
to increase the interest in, and add to, the splendour 
of the feast. Thus, in March, 1689-90, we find 
the Yorkshire meeting announced in the London 
Gazette (then the ordinary vehicle for such intima- 
tions), as follows : — 

"The Annual Yorkshire Feast will be held the 27th instant, at 
Merchant Taylors' Hall in Threadneedle Street, where will be 
a very splendid Entertainment of all sorts of Vocal and Instrumental 
Musick. Tickets are to be had at Man's Coffee-House at Charing 
Cross, at Clifford's Inn Coffee-House in Fleet Street, and at Blew- 
Coats Coffee-House in Swithin's Alley, near the Royal Exchange 
in Cornhill." 



222 GK)OD CHEER 

The " very splendid Entertainment of all sorts 
of Vocal and Instrumental Musick " promised in this 
advertisement was the Ode written by D'Urfey in 
celebration of the Revolution of 1688, and the part 
taken therein by the men of Yorkshire ; it was set 
to music by Henry Purcell, to the admirers of whose 
genius it is well known under the name of " The 
Yorkshire Feast Song." The performance of this 
ode, D'Urfey tells us, cost nearly £100 — ^no inCMi- 
siderable sura to be expended on such an object at 
that period. 

The English Post newspaper of November 21, 
1 701, gives us the following accotmt of the Kentish 
meeting : — 

"Yesterday being the Anniversary Feast of the Natives of the 
County of Kent, an excellent Sermon was preached before them 
by Dr. Stanhop at Bow Church ; after which they went to dine at 
Merchant Taylors' Hall, the famous strong Man carrying a large 
Tree before them, followed by several others with large boughs as 
a Memorial of the Stratagem whereby their Predecessors preserved 
their ancient liberties and customs when King William the Con- 
queror came to Scoanscomb [Swanscombe], near Gravesend. There 
followed Trumpets, Hoyboys, and Kettle Drums, a handsome 
appearance of Gentlemen of the County; and after Dinner the 
Strong Man was chosen one of the Stewards for the year 
succeeding." 

The preacher, Dr. George Stanhope, was then 
Vicar of Lewisham ; he subsequently held the living 
of St. Nicholas, Deptford, and later became Dean 
of Canterbury. The " famous strong Man " was 
William Joyce, a native of the county, who, under the 
name of " the English Samson," was wont to exhibit 
feats of bodily strength at Bartholomew and other 
fairs, and was on one occasion at least called upon 
to display his powers for the special delectation of 
his Majesty King William III. 

The counties whose natives held these celebrations 



COUNTY FEASTS 223 

included Dorsetshire, Gloucestershire, Hampshire, 
Herefordshire, Hunting-donshire, Kent, Northamp- 
tonshire, Oxfordshire, Wjarwickshire, Wiltshire, Wor- 
cestershire, and Yorkshire. Although Merchant 
Taylors' Hall appears to have been the favourite 
place of meeting, the halls of the Drapers', Sta- 
tioners', and Haberdashers' Companies were occa- 
sionally resorted to. 

The latest gathering of which any record exists 
was that of the natives of Herefordshire on Feb- 
ruary 7, 1727-8, when Dr. Thomas Bisse, Chan- 
cellor of Hereford, so well known in connection with 
the establishment of the meetings of the Three Choirs 
of Gloucester, Worcester, and Hereford, preached, 
at St. Michael's, Comhill. 

County Associations exist in London and other 
large cities at the present day. As long as local 
patriotism flourishes, and sentiment sways the human 
heart, they will be popular ; by means of such 
associations old acquaintances are renewed, the happy 
days of childhood aJe recalled, and many cherished 
memories brightened up again. And, be sure of 
this, there will always be a " feast." 



XX' 

THE COOK AND HIS ART 

The art of the cook — Enlarges the resources of mankind— Ancient 
whimsical cookery — A pig roasted one side and boiled the 
other— Fish and flesh counterfeited in vegetables — Greek 
writers on cookery — An epic of good eating — The master cook, 
a culinary artist — The art introduced by the Normans— Richard 
II.'s eminent cook—" Forme of Cury "— SafEron— " Blank- 
mang " — " Fysshe " — " Sawse " — The cook's arms — Chaucer's 
cook— The cook's influence on daily life — ^The cook as a comic 
character — ^As a physician — Feats of cookery — Some notable 
cooks — Mighty intellects devoted to culinary art — The Cordon 
Bleu— The Consultant-chef — State of the culinary art in England 
— Cottage cookery in 1620. 

As indicated in the opening chapter, the economy 
of the kitchen is only a counterpart, in its simplicity 
or complication, its rudeness or luxury, of the 
economy of the State. The perfectibility of cookery 
indicates the perfectibility of society. The progress 
of cookery is the progress of civilisation. 

In the seventeenth century the ladies of the French 
aristocracy took up the culinary art as a fashionable 
cult, which, by the close of that century, had become 
highly developed among them, as witness the 
Ladies' Banquet of the accompanying illustration. 

Cookery is one of the most excellent of the 
sciences. It is entitled to this distinction from the 
measure in which it contributes to the comfort and 
gratification of man. The records of the other 
sciences are addressed to the learned, but volumes 




g -g •^ 

g ". ^ 






THE COOK AND HIS ART 225 

on cookery are addressed to the great body of man- 
kind. The majority of men are more concerned about 
the turning of the spit than the rotation of the earth. 
Cookery is the most ancient of sciences . Few nations 
in their origin were so utterly barbarous as to devour 
their food without some previous preparation. 

Man is the one animal who can adapt himself to 
the changing conditions of life and the vicissitudes of 
climate. He can exist on every kind of food ; every 
animal and every plant yield him their produce ; 
all Nature is xmder tribute to him. It is in cooking 
that he is superior to other animals, for by its aid 
he fits to his wants much foodstuff that would 
otherwise run to waste. By skilful preparation and 
skilful cooking man enlarges his resources a 
thousandfold. 

The cooks of the ancients were generally hired for 
a grand dinner, and they carried their art to the 
most whimsical perfection. 

Such was the extraordinary skill of these artists 
they were able to serve a whole pig> boiled on one 
side and roasted on the other. The cook who per- 
formed this feat would defy the guests to detect 
the place where the knife had separated the animal, 
or how it was contrived to stuff the belly with an 
olio, composed of thrushes and other birds, slices 
of the matrices of a sow, the yolks of eggs, the 
bellies of hens with their soft eggs, flavoured with 
a rich juice, and minced meats highly spiced. 

When the secret of this triumph was revealed, 
it would appear the animal had been bled to death 
by a wound under the shoulder, whence, after a 
copious effusion, the entrails had been extracted. 
Hanging by its feet, the animal was washed with 
wine, and then stuffings already prepared were 
crammed down its throat. Then covering the half 
of the pig with a paste of barley thickened with 

IS 



226 GOOD CHEER 

wine and oil, the expert artist placed it in a small 
oven, where it was gently roasted with all due care. 
When the skin was browned he boiled the other 
side, and then, taking off the paste, the pig was 
served up at once boiled and roasted. 

iWith a vegetable, theise marvellous cooks could 
counterfeit any flesh or fish, both in shape and taste. 
It is recorded that the King of Bithynia, while on 
some expedition against the Scythians in the winter, 
and when a great distance from the sea, conceived 
a violent longing for an aphy— a. small fish, probably 
an anchovy. His cook cut a turnip into the perfect 
shape of one, fried it in oil, salted, and so seasoned 
and disguised it with the pow'dered grains of black 
poppies, that his Majesty's taste was exquisitely 
deceived, and he praised it to his guests as a most 
excellent fish. 

Dionysius describes the perfect cook with no un- 
certain opinion : — 

"To roast some beef, to carve a joint with neatness, 
To boil up sauces, and to blow the fire, 
Is anybody's task ; he who does this 
Is but a seasoner and broth-maker. 
A cook is quite another thing. His mind 
Must comprehend all facts and circumstances ; 
Where is the place, and what the time of supper; 
Who are the guests, and who the entertainer ; 
What fish he ought to buy, and where to buy it." 

Artemidorus collected and commented on all the 
words in use in the kitchens of his time. Timachidas 
of Rhodes, cook and poet of the highest renown, 
composed an epopee on the art which he professed, 
in the midst of the emanations from the stoves and 
the spit. 

Archestratus, a culinary philosopher who flourished 
about 350 B.C., composed an epic or didactic poem 
on good eating. His " Gastrology " became the 



THE COOK AND HIS ART 227 

creed of the epicures, and its pathos appears to 
have been of that kind which made the readers' 
" mouths water." He opens his subject thus : — 

" I write these precepts for immortal Greece, 
That round a table delicately spread, 
Or three, or four, may sit in choice repast. 
Or five at most. Who otherwise shall dine, 
Are like a troop marauding for their prey." 

A century later Athenseus wrote his " Banquet 
of the Learned " in fifteen books ; and it consists 
of an immense mass of anecdotes, extracts from 
the writings of poets, historians, dramatists, philoso- 
phers, orators, and physicians, of facts in natural 
history, criticisms and discussions on every conceiv- 
able subject, especially on gastronomy. Thus he 
gives in this collection of Ana the philosophy or 
metaphysics of cookery : — 

" Know then, the Cook, a dinner that's bespoke 
Aspiring to prepare, with prescient zeal 
Should know the tastes and humours of the guests." 

Which, though the superlative of advice, is quite 
true ; as also is the dictum : — 

" All books of cookery, all helps of art. 
All critic learning, all commenting notes 
Are vain, if void of genius, thou wouldst cook." 

The master cook, according to this sage, avoids 
the common blunder of the vulgar cook, with his 
confused odours of the gallimaufry, and makes " the 
nostril feel each scent distinct " ; he " explores 
causes," and " guides the mighty whole," and seated 
apart in his kitchen, issues thus his orders : — 

"Leave, leave that ponderous ham. 
Keep up the fire, and lively play the flame 
Beneath those lobster patties ; patient here, 
Fix't as a statue, skim, incessant skim. 



228 GOOD CHEER 

Steep well this small glosiscus [a large sea fish] in its sauce, 
And boil that sea-dog in a cullender ; 
This eel requires more salt and marjoram ; 
Roast well that piece of kid on either side 
Equal; that sweetbread boil not over much." 

The culinary artist of refinement adapts his repast 
to his personages : — 

" I like to see the faces of my guests. 
To feed them as their age and station claim; 
My kitchen changes as my guests inspire 
The various spectacle." 

Here we may leave the culinary philosophy of 
the ancients and come nearer home, both in time 
and space, for the further consideration of our 
subject . 

Of the cook history says little ; of the banquets 
set forth by his skill before the highest and mightiest 
of the land, and on the most interesting and eventful 
occasions, it, on the contrary, furnishes many par- 
ticulars not unworthy of more detail than our space 
or our object will here admit of. The art of cookery 
in this country may be dated from the Norman 
Conquest : our Saxon ancestors appear to "have distin- 
guished themselves for the excess rather than for the 
quality of their food. Whilst the Normans, as William 
of Malmesbury expressly states, were delicate in the 
choice of meats and drinks, they seldom exceeded 
the bounds of temperance, and while living less 
expensively, lived also with more elegance. John 
of Salisbury mentions that he was present at a great 
entertainment where there were served up the choicest 
luxuries of Babylon and Constantinople, of Palestine 
and Alexandria, of Tripoli, Syria, and Phoenicia. 
These delicacies of course could only be obtained 
at a great expenditure, and must have required cooks 
to do them justice. Such, no doubt, existed, and 



THE COOK AND HIS ART 229 

were so highly esteemed that estates were granted 
them to be held by the tenure of dressing a particular 
dish. One of the most striking evidences of the 
magnificence of the feasts of the Norman Court is 
daily before our eyes in that finest of European 
halls, the one at Westminster : that hall, we are told 
by Stow, was built by William Rufus for his dining- 
room. 

What was the condition of the culinary art here 
in the days of our Plantagenet kings? A very com- 
plete answer to this question might be given after 
a study of that famous medieval work, " The Forme 
of Cury," which was published to the world in 
1390J on the authority of Richard II.'s highly 
qualified cook'-in-chief. .Here, however, considera- 
tions of space will limiit the answer to a few notes and 
extracts — such as, being fairly typical, will perhaps 
serve (together with the allusions to this notable 
authority which appear elsewhere) to convey a very 
fair notion of the high level to which the science of 
" cury " — that is, cookery — had attained in England 
at that time. 

First of all, a recipe in " The Forme of Cury " 
for cabbage soup illustrates the enduring nature of 
some culinary practices : — 

"Caboches in pottage. Take caboches and quarter hem, and 
seeth hem in gode broth with onyons y-minced and the white 
of lekes y-slypt and corve [cut] smale, and do thereto safronn and 
salt and force it with powder douce [allspice]." 

Barring the saffron, that pestilent ingredient of 
medieval cookery, this method differs little from 
that in use to-day. 

Saffron, it is time to explain, is a species of crocus, 
specially cultivated for medicine and cookery. The 
stamens of this flower are pulled and dried into flat, 
square cakes for medicinal purposes. It was for- 



230 GOOD CHEER 

merly much esteemed in cookery. The clown in the 
" Winter's Tale," reckoning up what he is to buy for 
the sheepshearing feast, mentions " saffron to colour 
the warden -pies." 

Here is a medieval method of cooking rabbits, 
or " coneys," which, as it makes a highly -spiced 
dish of spoon-meat, is quite characteristic of the 
period : — 

"Connynges in gravey. — Take connynges, smite hem in pecys. 
Parboile hem, and drawe hem with gode broth, with almandes 
blanched and brayed. Do [put] thereinne sugar and powder gynger 
and boyle it, and the flessh therewith. Floer [flour] it with sugar 
and with powder gynger, and serve forth." 

Most of the recipes in " The Forme of Cury " 
recommend the use of sugar and ginger. There is one 
for cooking rabbits or kids, called " Egurdouce " — 
that is, gtigre-daux, or sour sweet, probably because 
there is nothing sour in its composition. But there 
is sugar, as usual, to say nothing of " raysons of 
corrance " and " gynger of canel " (cinnamon). The 
flesh is first fried in onions and then boiled in red 
wine. Even this would be preferable to stewed goose, 
a dish which would certainly try stomachs inclined 
to be delicate. 

Hotch-potch, or " hoche-pot," was a medieval dish 
which King Richard's cook prepared with great 
elaboration ; but his " blank -mang " was not the 
delicate opaque jelly now served under the name 
of blanc -mange. It was a dish of capons seethed 
in the usual highly-spiceid broth of the period, the 
recipe for which winds up with this direction : — 

"Then messe it forth and flourish [garnish] it with aneys in 
confyt rede other whyte [aniseed confectioned, red or white] and 
with almandes fryed in oyle; and serve it forth." 

Many of the dishes of " fysshe " were highly 



THE COOK AND HIS ART 231 

elaborated. Among others is found a recipe for 
making a salmon into a kind of thick soup or pur^e 
with almonds, milk, and rice flour. Chysanne was 
a fish stew scientifically prepared. Lampreys were 
served in what was then called " galyntyne," a hot 
preparation very different from the galantine of 
modern days. 

Croustades of a kind were not unknown to the 
culinary artists of those days, as witness : — 

" Daryols. — Take creme of cowe, mylke of almandes. Do thereto 
ayren [eggs] with sugar, safroun, and salt. Media it yfere [mix it 
thoroughly] . Do it in a coffyn of two ynche depe, bake it wel, and 
serve it forth." 

The term " croustade " is preferable to that of coffin, 
even for the serving forth of funeral baked meats. 

The Crusaders, among other importations, had 
evidently added a sauce to the cuisine of Western 
Europe ; the " Sawse sarzyne " of this ancient 
cookery book being simply Saracen sauce, just as 
" Peerey of peson " may be taken as Norman-English 
for puree de pais. And the mention of some pf 
the recipes of " fresh mutton " should not provoke 
a smile ; it should remind us that, winter stall-feeding 
being then unknown, oxen and sheep were slaughtered 
in the autumn and salted wholesale for the winter. 
In the vast kitchens of baronial establishments the 
use of dried and salted mutton carcasses as impromptu 
seats was not an unknown thing at Christmas merry- 
makings . 

These few examples will suffice to convey some 
idea of the achievements of which a chef de cuisine 
was capable in the fourteenth century. The 
" sotelties " which were his crowning triumph 
(mentioned on p. io8) showed that he had some 
pretensions to call himself an artist. 

The chef of eminence came in time to be recog- 



232 GOOD CHEER 

nised as a gentleman, for the heraldic blazon of 
a cook, according to Randle Holme, in " The 
Academy of Armory," is set forth in these terms :— 

" He beareth Gules, a cook, with a cap, sleeves, and apron, Argenl ; 
waistcoat and breeches. Azure; hose of the second, shoes Sable; 
holding a dish of meat between his hands, proper; a dresser fixed to 
the dexter side. Or." 

A title sometimes given to cooks in older times was 
ecuyer, or equerry. 

The cook, owing, no doubt, to his office, was con- 
sidered important enough by Chaucer to be intro- 
duced as a leading character into his " Canterbury 
Tales " ; and the text furnishes us, in the banter 
of the host, with some particulars of this cook's 
position, name, and other personal matters of interest. 

" Many a Jack of Dover hast thou sold 
That hath been twies hot and twies cold, 
Of many a pilgrim hast thou Christe's curse. 
For of thy parsley yet fare they the worse, 
That they have eaten in thy stubble-goose. 
For in thy shop go'th many a flie loose. 
Now tell on, gentle Roger, by thy name," &c. 

The pilgrims continue their journey ; the tales, 
now of the broadest humour, now of the deepest 
pathos, follow in regular succession ; but intellec- 
tual enjoyments alone are far from satisfactory to 
the cook. He accordingly applies himself to a much 
more accustomed, and, to him, more substantial 
pleasure ; what that vi'a.s the ensuing extracts will 
show. At the conclusion of the Canon Yeoman's tale, 
the host, looking back, sees the cook fast asleep 
upon his horse : — 

" Then gan our host to jape and to play ; 
And saide. Sirs, what ? Dun is in the mire. 
Is there ne man for praierie ne for hire 
That will awaken our fellow behind ? 



THE COOK AND HIS ART 233 

A thief him might full lightly rob and bind : 
See how he nappeth, see, for cockes bones, 
As he would fallen frorfl his horse at ones : 
Is that a cook of London ?" &c. 

He is awakened, looking " full pale," and excuses 
himself by saying : — 

"There is fall'n on me such heaviness, 
N'ot I not why, that me were lever sleep. 
Than the best gallon wine that is in Cheap.'' 

The host has determined that he shall now tell 
a tale by way of penance ; but the manciple offers 
to undertake that task for him, saying : — 

" See how he gapeth, lo, this drunken wight, 
As though he would us swallow anon right." 

It is but too true — the cook is drunk ; and at 
last, vexed by the jibes 6i the manciple and his 
own inability to answer him in his present state, 
" he gan nod fast," and fell from his horse. Then 

" There was great shoving bothe to and fro. 
To lift him up, and mochel care and woe." 

The himiorous host now reminds the manciple 
that the cook, another day, will be revenged for 
this. " I mene," he says, 

" He speaken will of smalle things, 
As for to pinchen at thy reckonings. 
That were not honest if it came to proof." 

The manciple, it must be observed, was an officer 
who had the care of purchasing victuals for an inn 
of court ; and there might consequently have been 
transactions between the cook and the manciple not 
very creditable to the latter if known. He is 
frightened, at all events — 

" I would not wrathen him, so mote I thrive," 



234 GOOD CHEER 

and, in the end, with admirable judgment, he makes 
peace by 

"A draught of wine, yea, of a ripe grape." 

Drunkenness surely misbecomes the cook more than 
most men. 

The office of the culinary artist is one which has 
a subtle, if not a dominating, influence on the daily 
life of those for whom it is his business to cater. 
He rules the roast, says one proverb ; the cook is 
not to be taught in his own kitchen, says another. 
That he is sometimes given to rule those whom he 
is paid to serve would appear to have been felt 
in the days of the Latin poet Martial, who, twenty 
centuries ago, wrote : "I prefer that the courses 
at our banquet should give pleasure to the guests 
rather than the cooks." 

Dr. (William King, who flourished between 1663 
and 1712, and gave us the "Art of Cookery," says 
that 

" 'Tis by his cleanliness a cook must please." 

A dirty cook is an abomination. One ancient 
writer makes contemptuous reference to the " sluttery 
of the cook." 

That he does not always succeed in pleasing is 
a fact made evident by the crystallisation of his 
shortcomings into proverbial form. One old saw, 
which begins by telling us that God soids meat, 
completes the postulate by giving an entirely opposite 
origin for the cooks who are sent to dress the benign 
gifts of Heaven. 

Another, equally well known, has reference to the 
spoiling lof the broth by the officious interference 
of too many tenders of the seething pot. 




THE MIRACLE OF THE SIEVE. BY MOSTAERT. 

Showing a finely equipped i6th Century kitchen. 

{From a photograph supplied by the Curator of the Royal Museum, Brussels.) 



To face p. 234. 



THE COOK AND HIS ART 235 



t 



He is not always dexterous with his most familiar 
tools, or Chaucer would not have written of 

" The cook yscalded for all his long ladle." 

In the " Celtic Dragon Myth " the cook appears 
as a comic character. The grotesque, " cock-eyed, 
carroty cook " of this legend flourishes his carving- 
knife quite valiantly ; and when the hero after three 
days' desperate fighting vanquishes the dragon and 
then disappears, as these heroes have a habit of 
doing, this " lousy scullion " comes forward, pretends 
to the honour, and claims the reward. 

But in former times a yet more distinguishing 
feature could be attributed to the professional 
concocter of dishes. " The Forme of Cury " tells 
us it was compiled " under the assent and avise- 
ment of the masters of physic and philosophy th|at 
dwelled in the king's court." 

All the best old cookery-books in the language 
were written by eminent medical men. Sir Kenelm 
Digby and Dr. Mayerne in the seventeenth. Dr. Hill 
and Dr. Hunter in the eighteenth, and Dr. Kitchiner 
in the nineteenth century have given to the world 
the best English domestic cookery books of their 
respective eras. 

Dr. Lister, physician to Queen Anne, expressed 
the opinion : " I do not consider myself as hazard- 
ing anything, when I say that no man can be a 
good physician who has not a competent knowledge 
of cookery." As a matter of fact, in the olden 
time, cookery was looked upon as a branch of 
medical science. The Latin verbi curare signifies 
to dress a dinner, as well as cure a disease. On 
board ship sailors often dub their cook " doctor." 

There can be no question that a well -arranged 
dietary has had much to do with increasing the 



236 GOOD CHEER 

longevity which our generation enjoj^ over those of 
the past. 

The wonderful feats — culinary, not medicinal — 
which the ingenuity and skill of the expert cook 
has achieved would fill a book. 

Charles XII. had a wonderful recipe for cooking a 
fat hen while upon the march. The fowl was lar'ded, 
trussed as if for roasting, and stuffed with butter. 
A piece of hot steel, not red hot, of a size 
and shape specially designed for the purpose, 
was inserted into its belly. It was then shut up 
in a tin box, which was wrapped in a woollen cloth, 
and strapped on a soldier's back. In a few hours, 
when the march came to an end, it was found 
sufficiently cooked. 

But this is nothing to what the Tartars are 
credited with ; these marvellous horsemen are said 
to be able to cook their meat, while galloping on 
horseback, by using it as a saddle ! 

A triumph of cookery was that achieved by the 
chief cook of Louis XIV., who on the occasion of 
a grand banquet dressed a pair of his Majesty's 
old slippers with such exquisite skill that the King 
and all his courtiers declared it to be the best dish 
they ever tasted. But no doubt a number of anec- 
dotes like this — and as reliable in their conclusion 
— could be collected. They but illustrate the point 
that the most accomplished master of the art is the 
one who seasons his dishes most cunningly and most 
elegantly. 

It was the same culinary artist who one Gk)od 
Friday served the king with a dinner, apparently 
composed of poultry and butcher's meat, but which 
in reality was nothing but vegetables, prepared, as 
Lenten dishes should be, au maigre. 

It is recorded that Vatel, maitre d'hotel of the 
great Cond6, committed suicide because the fish had 



THE COOK AND HIS ART 237 

not arrived in time for a great dinner at which 
Louis XIV. was to have been present. Peace be to 
his ashes, for as the witty author of " The Banquet " 
writes : — 

"... The excellent Vatel 
Untimely but not unlamented fell, 
Friendship embalmed his memory in her tear, 
And rank and royalty adorned his bier. 
Long shall his premature and tragic fate 
The Fasti of the festive board relate." 

It is again to the credit of the craft that 
Wellington's cook on the day of Waterloo stuck 
to his post, faithful to his duty, incrddulous of defeat, 
though assured by hunjdrieds of cowardly fugitives 
that the day was lost. A nice sense of honour, it 
would seem, distinguishes the cook who has arrived 
at any eminence in his profession. 

The favourite cook of George II. was Tom 
Weston, of whom the other servants were extremely 
jealous ; and when any dish was found fault with 
they invariably used to say it was Weston's dressing. 
The King at last took notice of this, and said it was 
very extraordinary that every dish he disliked should 
happen to be of Weston's preparing. " In future," 
continued the King, " let every dish be marked with 
the name of the cook that makes it." By this means 
the King detected their arts, and from that time 
Weston was reinstated in favour. The custom of 
marking the royal dishes with the name of the cook 
prevailed for long afterwards. 

Even the great Lord Bacon thought it no shame 
to bend his mighty intellect to the problems of the 
kitchen. David Hume, after retiring from public 
life in 1769, devoted himself to cooking, as "the 
science to which I addict the remaining years of 
my life." iWhat calling can boast more honourable 
names ? 



238 GOOD CHEER 

The term cordon hlea came to be applied to a 
superior cook in this wise. The blii^ribbon .was 
really worn to carry the decoratio,n^f the ancient 
Order of Le St. Esprit, the highest order of knigjht- 
hood in France. The commander de Souv^ le Comte 
d'Olonne, and some others were wont to meet together 
in a sort of club which became noted for the well- 
appointed dinners they had served there. Hence, 
when any one had dined well, he said, " Bien, c'est 
un vrai repas de cordon bleu " ; and so a superior 
cook became known as one of the cordon bleu 
type. 

One of the latest outcomes of modem progress 
is the consultant-chef, who may be seen any day 
of the week in his London chambers, and who for 
a reasonable fee will describe the use of the chafing- 
dish, explain the newest labour-saving devices for 
the kitchen, or undertake to solve ^ly problem of 
the cuisine. He will draw up a menu for a luncheon 
or a dinner, and, if necessary, invent a new dish. 
But his primary function is to impress upon inquirers 
the importance of a properly balanced menu to the 
health of the household. With his science, land, 
above all, his insistence upon hygienic exactitude, 
he thus brings us back to the ancient association 
between " cookery and curing." 

But with all the mighty minds which have been 
brought to bear on the subject, how stands the art 
of cookery to-day with the masses of the English 
people? Does the English workman's wife com- 
pare favourably, say, with the French peasant 
woman? We trow not. 

The first writer to deal with what we now call 
" cottage cookery " was Tobias Vernier, a Somer- 
setshire man, who in 1620 published " Via Recta ad 
Vitam Longam," a work' full of pi^ctical and sound, 
homely advice to the lower rural classra j though it 



THE COOK AND HIS ART 239 

is to be feared, owing to the deficiencies of their 
education, they were quite unable to profit by it. 

And so to this day there is an undue percentage 
of English women who have not mastered that 
stumbling-block of the budding cook, the art of 
cooking a potato. However, Education Committees 
all over the country, are now; endeavouring to over- 
take the neglect of centuries, and to wipe out the 
reproach that the English lower classes are prac- 
tically ignorant of cookery — cookery as an integral 
part of the philosophy of life. 



XXI 

COOKERY-BOOK DIVERSIONS 

Obsolete cookery terms— Tot fai or to£Eey — "Oyle soups" or olla— 
Fast day fish — Range of dishes in 1464 — "Mortes" — "Coulis" 
— Fifteenth-century garden stuff — Scarcity of milk and butter — 
Recipes or barbarous " secrets " — Mayern's Archimagirus — 
London Pie — Medicine and cookery — " The Pearl of Practice '■ 
, (1656) — Still-room practice — "Water of Life" — Mithridate— 
^"^^-Etiquette of table terms — For serving fish — Game and fowl — 
Pigeon pie extraordinary — " The Accomplished Cook," by 
Robert May (1671) — A Restoration Christmas dinner — Sir 
Kenelm Digbys Receipt Book (1671) — Poultry feeding — Flo- 
mery — Possets — Pap — " Sassage " — Aristocratic recipes — Meat 
extract—" The Queen-like Closet," by Hannah Woolly {1681)— 
" Mrs. Glasse " alias Dr. Hill (1746) — Incongruous mixture of 
dishes — Contempt for French cookery — Hill's authorship dis- 
puted — More stillroom practice — Pickling — Flower-petal cakes 
— Wine-making — Flumery confections — " Florentine " — Other 
cookery - books — " Cook's Oracle " (1820) — Eccentric Dr. 
Kitchiner — Alexis Soyer, 1846. 

Man is the only animal that cooks its food. That 
he is also proud of this accomplishment appears 
from his extreme fondness for writing about it. From 
the days of that noble Roman, Apicius, the output 
of cookery-books has gone steadily on ; and aiter- 
taining reading many of them afford. 

The oldest treatise on the culinary art of this 
country was written in Latin and highly unintel- 
ligible Norman-French by Archbishop Neckham 
about the close of the thirteenth century. 

340 



COOKERY-BOOK DIVERSIONS 241 

Of the first great English cookery book, " The 
Forme of Cury," sufficient has already been said. 

"The Noble Boke off Cookery," a MS. in the 
library of the Earl of Leicester, at Holkham, dating 
from 1467, enlightens us as to the dishes which 
were considered dainty in the fifteenth century. But 
the recipes are written in the Anglo-French of the 
period, and both the writing and the spelling are 
so uncertain it requires a vast amount of guessing 
to affix a meaning to some of the terms employed. 

The recipe for bread sauce appears under the 
heading " saucealiper," which we may accept as 
"sauce a le pain"; and we seem to recognise 
" Charlotte " in " Charlet." " Obleys " are evidently 
the thin wafers or biscuits now called " oblaten," 
well known as a Carlsbad speciality. But is 
" votose " a .travesty for " tot fait," which is the 
origin of the schoolboy's " toffy "? Perpend — 

" To make votose tak gobettes of mary [marrow] and dates cutt 
gret, sugur and poudur of guinger, saffron and salt, and mak afoile 
as ye did bef or, and do it out of the pot, and mak another, then tak 
the for-said stuf and couche thes in almost as brod as the foile, and 
wet the bredes of the foille aboue and closse and bak it essely, and 
when it is bak cutt it in peces eury pece ij enche square." 

The recipe for " oyle soupes " makes a refined 
dish, ibut does not contain any oil (the derivation 
is from the French word oitle, Spanish olla, a pottage 
made of divers meats and herbs) : — 

" Tak and boyll mylk and yolks of eggs and draw them thro a 
streiner, and cast it into the mylk and heet it, but lett it not boill, 
and stir it till it be somdele thick, then cast thes to sugur and salt, 
and cutte whit bred in sopes, and cast the sopes therin, and serue 
it in manner of pptage." 

The Holkham " Boke " gives as its first bill of 
fare that ,of "a ffeste of King Henry the Fourth 
to the Heralds and ffrench men when they justed 

16 



242 GOOD CHEER 

in Smytheffelde," which must have been held before 
the year 141 3. The materials in the way of poultry 
and game seem to have been abimdant, and they 
hold important places in each of the three courses. 

Fish eaten on fast days, when flesh was not 
allowed, entered sparingly into the meals served on 
other days, and often was not served at all. Does 
not Falstaff deplore the " many fish meals " which 
destroy the manly vigour? 

But at the " coronacon off King Henry the ffifte " 
we read of pike, lamprey, gurnard, trout, roach, 
shrimps, eels, plaice, conger, bass, mullet, salmon, 
soles, halybut, sturgeon, tench, flounders, minnows, 
and porpoise ; and with so great a variety of sea 
and river fish there was surely no lack of nutriment 
in such a meal. 

At the " stallacion " of George Neville (brother 
of the Kingmaker) as Archbishop of York, in 1469, 
sixty-two cooks were employed to prepare the feast ; 
and as it was served hot at midday their labours 
could not have been light, for besides " great beef 
and mutton," " oxene," " porcele," antelopes, 
boars' heads, venison, and roe, there were game 
birds and tame birds of every kind ; swans land 
egrets, ganets and gulls, heron and peacock, 
pheasants, partridges, plover, woodcock, goodwitts, 
redshanks, Yarowe helpes, knottes (birds named after 
King Knut), bittern and curlew, quails, pigeons, 
chyckens and capons, larks, dotterelles, and mar- 
tynets. Soups, and pottage, sweet dishes and fruits, 
" peres in ceripe " (pears in syrup) are named, but 
no vegetables. The term entremets, for side 
dishes, was written "interments." Besides the four 
hundred tarts, there were served on this occasion 
five thousand dishes of jelly, four thousand cold 
custards, and two thousand hot custards. There were 
a thousand servers or waiters employed, and the 



COOKERY-BOOK DIVERSIONS 243 

sixty -two cooks had at their command 5 1 5 kitchen 
assistants. Such was the luxury and magnificence 
of an English prelate. 

Among other terms employed in the " Boke " of 
1467 are " Cratons " — cretons, an old French word 
for a preparation of scraps of pork or other meat ; 
" mortes "—probably the dish prescribed by Lord 
Bacon as excellent to nourish those that are weak, 
and made of brawn of capons, stamped, strained, 
and mingled with like quantity of almond butter ; 
" acoles " — evidently the same as the " cuUice " of 
cocks, another of Lord. Bacon's dishes ; in modern 
cookery-books, known as " coulis," it is the juice 
that flows from meat and forms the foundation of 
savoury sauces. The expression " groseille k 
maquereau " is still used in French to distinguish 
gooseberries from currants, both of them being 
" groseilles." It was an old Norman practice to 
eat green gooseberry sauce with mackerel. 

There was not a wide range of garden stuff used 
at table in the fifteenth century — cabbage, cane beans, 
peas, parsley, sage, " ysope," " netilles," sorrel, mint, 
"onyons," leeks, rosemary, and the inevitable saffron. 
But as if to make up for the lack of green vegetables, 
the medieval cook' was profuse in the use of spices, 
for very few dishes escaped a liberal sprinkling of, 
ginger, cloves, mace, or " canelle " (cinnamon). 
Then sugar, honey, and' currants (" raissins of 
corans ") were usually mixed in fish and savoury 
dishes. It is a canon of cookery that there should 
be a little salt in all sweet dishes, and a little sugar 
in all ,savoury dishes. Milk and butter seem to 
have been so seldom used that we may infer they 
were very scarce articles. The explanation, perhaps, 
is that the cows were too ill -fed to yield very little 
more milk than their calves needed, and there v/ere 
certainly many months of the year in which no butter 



244 GOOD OHBER 

was made. We read once of " May butter " ; and 
there was a " salt butter," which was very ill-made 
and much over-salted. Or perhaps the recipes came 
originally from Italy and the South of France, where 
the climate does not favour the use of cream. 

The recipes (or " secrets "as they are termed) 
given in some old cookery-books are too barbarous 
to be transcribed. For instance, one may learn from 
them " how to roast and eat a goose alive, so that 
it would shriek when being carved, very pleasant 
to the beholders " ; how a live lamprey was to be 
" fried, boiled, and roasted at the same time " ; and 
" how a living fowl, fluttering in agony, turned the 
spit " upon which it was roasting. 

The recipe for that innocent-lookmg dish which 
Chaucer calls " blanc manger " commences in this 
strain : " Take a capon and cut out the bratme 
of him alive, parboyle the braune tyll the flesh come 
from the boone," &c. 

Leaving these ancient culinary atrocities, more 
comfortable by far is it to learn, from the 
" Archimagirus Anglo-Gallicus " of Dr. Mayeme, 
the recipe for that homely dish " Lonidon pie," which 
was this authority's chef d'ceuvre: — 

" Take eight marrow-bones, eighteen sparrows, one pound of pota- 
toes, quarter of a pound of eringoes, two ounces of lettuce stalks, 
forty chestnuts, half a pound of dates, a peck of ojrsters, quarter 
pound of preserved citron, three artichokes, twelve eggs, two sliced 
lemons, a handful of pickled barberries, quarter oimce of whole 
pepper, half ounce of sliced nutmeg, haU ounce of whole cinnamon, 
quarter ounce of whole cloves, half ounce of mace, quarter pound of 
currants. Liquor it, when it is baked, with white wine, butter, 
and sugar." 



Dr. Mayeme had been physician to four kings, 
Henry IV. of France, James I., Charles I., and 
Charles II. of England, and he held a well-defined 
place in medical science. He was a noted ban vivant, 



COOKERY-BOOK DIVERSIONS 245 

yet attained the age of eig^hty-two ; the jolly physician 
dying at his own house at Chelsea, in 1655, after 
having drunk some bad wine at a Strand tavern. 
He often participated in the hospitalities of the Lord 
Mayor, and his cookery-book is allowed to be the 
best of its day, for Sir Theodore Mayerne could 
dress a dinner as well as he could cure a disease.. 

Tobias Venner, already mentioned (p. 238), like 
other writers on culinary subjects, was a physician, 
and he goes minutely into the alimentary values of 
food. He held the opinion that any rough food would 
do for " hinds " — bull beef for ploughmen, if they 
could get it — but he distinctly thought that the flesh 
of partridges should not be eaten by " the common 
sort," because it was likely to " breed in them the 
asthmatick passion." The worthy doctor was himself 
a man of refined taste, and designed an cesthetic 
little meal, of brief but chaste simplicity — it was 
" a couple of poached eggs, sprinkled with vinegar, 
seasoned with black pepper and salt, served with 
bread-and-butter, and completed with a draught 
of pure claret." 

The conijunction of medicine and cookery is 
exemplified again in an admirable little volume pub- 
lished in 1656. It is in three parts. First, "The 
Queen's Closet Opened, or The Pearl of Practise ; 
Accurate Physical and Chirurgical Receipts." 
Second, " A Queen's Delight, or The Art of 
Preserving, Conserving, and Candying, as also a 
Right Knowledge of Making Perfumes, and Dis- 
tilling the Most Excellent Waters." Third, "The 
Compleat Cook, Expertly Prescribing the most ready 
wayes, whether Italian, Spanish, or French, For 
Dressing of Flesh and Fish, Ordering of Sauces, or 
making of Pastry." 

The Queen to whom this work was dedicated, or 
rather for whom it was supposed to be prepared. 



246 GOOD CHEER 

was the unfortunate Henrietta Maria. The Preface 
is signed with the initials W.M., whioh possibly may, 
stand for Walter Montagu, the Queen's almoner, or 
for Will Murray, the faithful friend and letter-carrier 
of her distressed Majesty, and who is mentioned in 
Evelyn's Diary. 

Many and manifold are the medical prescriptions 
contained in " The Pearl of Practise," and all of 
them show that our ancestors spared themselves no 
pains or trouble in the preparation of their home- 
made remedies. A few examples of the stillroom 
practice of the period may not be altogether out of 
place here. 

There are cures for smallpox, for commonplace 
gout, and for a complaint which seemed to be rather 
prevalent among our ancestors — " a cold stomack." 
Probably we should call the last named more briefly 
"a cold." But the " Comfortable Juleb for a 
Feaver " is the recipe which will give a nearer 
insight into the nature of this part of the work. 
This decoction was to be made of " Barley water 
and White Wine each one pint, Whey one quart, 
two ounces of Conserves of Barberries, and the 
Juyces of two limmons and two Oranges." 

In the " Bishop of Worcester's curing powder " the 
principal ingredients seem to be adder-skins and 
" the black tips of crabs' claws taken when the sun 
enters Cancer, which is every year on the eleventh 
day of June." 

A better taste of the book's quality may be 
obtained from the recipe for " The Water of Life," 
to be given a few drops at a time for fevers, and 
used in health as a strengthening tonic. It is a 
curious compound of food and physic. 

"Take Balm leaves and stalks, Betony leaves and flowers, Rose- 
mary, red sage, Taragon, Tormentil leaves, Rossolis and Roses, Carna- 
tion, Hyssop, Thyme, red strings that grow upon Savory, red Fennel 



COOKERY-BOOK DIVERSIONS 247 

leaves and root, red Mints, of each a handful ; bruise these hearbs 
and put them in a great earthern pot, and pour on them enough 
White Wine as wil cover them, stop them close, and let them 
steep for eight or nine days; then put to it Cinnamon, Ginger, 
Angelica-seeds, Cloves, and Nuttmegs, of each an ounce, a little 
Saffron, Sugar one pound, Raysins soils stoned one pound, Dates 
stoned and sliced half a pound, the loyns and legs of an old Coney, 
a fleshy running Capon, the red flesh of the sinews of a leg of 
Mutton, four young Chickens, twelve larks, the yolks of twelve 
Eggs, a Loaf of White bread, cut in sops; and two or three ounces 
of Mithridate or Treacle, and as much Muscadine as will cover 
them all. Distil al with a moderate fire, and keep the first and 
second waters by themselves; and when there comes no more by 
distilling put more Wine into the pot upon the same stuffe and 
distil it again, and you shall have another good, water." 

.We can well believe that " this water strengtheneth 
the Spirit, Brain, Heart, Liver, and stomack," 
especially as we are to take it " when need is by 
itself, or with Ale, Beer, or Wine mingled with 
Sugar." 

The confection " mithridate " enters into many of 
the medicines. It was supposed to have been the 
cure-all of King Mithridates, and was apparently 
regarded as a soporific. To compoimd it forty -five 
different ingredients were required, among them 
treacle-mustard, camels' hay, and the bellies of 
skinks ; yet when Pompey found this precious recipe 
it was simple enough : — 

" Pound with care two walnuts, two dried figs, twenty pounds of 
rice, and a grain of salt." 

The natural comment to make upon this is, obviously, 
that we take it with a grain of salt. 

In the second part of the book, among other 
" incomparable secrets " by " the Most Experienced 
Persons of the Times," are recipes for two royal 
perfumes, one by Edward VI. and the other by 
Queen Elizabeth. , 



248 GOOD CHEER 

When we come to " The Compleat Cook," ithe 
third part of the volume, we are considerably 
astonished to find the luxury and refinement at the 
Court pi Charles I. which its contents reveal, the 
recipes for the dressing of fish being particularly, 
dainty. But the most noticeable feature about them, 
perhaps, is the punctiliousness and nicety of the 
language employed in speaking of the fish when 
served at table. To request any one, for instance, 
to serve or give a helping of salmon was 
quite wrong. They were politely asked to " chine 
that salmon," " string that lamprey," " splat that 
pike," " sauce that tench " (or " that plaice "), 
" splay that bream," " side that haddock," " tusk 
that barbel," " culpon that trout," " transom that 
eel," " tranch that sturgeon," " undertranch that 
porpoise," " tame that craib," or, as it may 
be, " barb that lobster." " Here endeth the 
g'oodly termes of Kervynge," as a much older 
book says. 

Etiquette and good breeding in the seventeenth 
century demanded the employment of similar niceties 
of language when reference had to be made to the 
carving of game or fowl. Correct maimers required 
one to speak of " rearing a goose," " lifting a swan," 
" saucing a papon," " spoiling a hen," " trussing a 
chicken," " unbracing a mallard," " unlacing a 
coney," " dismembering a heron," " displaying 
a crane," " disfiguring a peacock," " unjointing 
a bittern," " untacking a curlew," " allaying a 
pheasant," " winging a partridge " (or " a quail "), 
" mincing a plover," and " thighing a pigeon " (or 
" a woodcock "). 

As space forbids the quoting of more than one 
cookery recipe, it shall be that for pigeon-pie, a 
preference the justification for which appears when 
we arrive at the end of it : — 



COOKERY-BOOK DIVERSIONS 249 

" Take your Pigeons (if they be not very young cut them into four 
quarters) one sweet-bred sliced the long way, that it may be thin 
and the pieces not too big, one Sheep's tongue, little more than 
parboyl'd and the skin pul'd off, and the tongue cut in slices, two or 
three slices of Veale, as much of mutton, young Chickens (if not 
little, quarter them) chick Heads, lark or any such like, Pullets, Cox- 
combs, Oysters, Calves' Udder, cut in pieces, good Store of Marrow 
for seasoning; take as much pepper and salt as you think fit to 
season it slightly, good store of Sweet Marjoram, a little Time, and 
Lemon-Pill fine sliced ; season it well with these spices as the time 
of the year will afford ; put in either of Chestnuts (if you put in 
Chestnuts they must be either boyl'd or roasted) Goose berries or 
Gauge ; large Mace will do well in this Pye ; then take a little peece 
of veal parboyl'd and slice it very fine, as much marrow as meat 
stirred amongst it ; then take grated bread, as much as a quarter of 
the meat, four yelks of eggs or more according to the Stuff you 
make ; shread Dates as small as may be, season it with salt. Nutmeg 
as much as will season it. Sweet Marjoram a pretty store but very 
small shread, work it up with as much Sweet Creame as will make it 
up in little puddings, some long, some round, so put as many of 
them in the Pye as you please ; put therein two or three spoonfuUs 
of Gravy of Mutton, or so much strong Mutton Broth, before you 
put it in the Oven, the bottome of boyl'd Hartichoks, minced Marrow 
over and in the bottom of the Pye after your Pye is baked ; when 
you put it up, have some five yelk of Eggs minced, and the juyce of 
two or three Oranges, the meat of one Lemon cut in peeces, a little 
White and Claret Wine ; put this in your Pye, being well mingled, 
and shake it very well together." 

By this time you may have lost your pigeons, 
but you have a pie of delicious richness, worthy 
of Brillat-Savarin, or any other high-priest of the 
higher gastronomical mysteries. 

" The Accomplished Cook," by Robert May, was 
published in 1671, in a third and enlarged edition. 
A cook and the son of a cook, May had served in 
the best houses, such as those of the Lords Lumley 
and Montague, the Countess of Kent, Lady Engle- 
field (of Sholeby, in Leicestershire, from vvrhose place 
he dates), and Lady Dormer, his earliest patron. At 
the Dormers' his father had been chef, the assistants, 
including himself, being five in number. 



250 GOOD CHEER 

" Such noble houses were then kept — the glory of that and shame 
of this present age. Then were those golden days (the reign of 
James I.) wherein were practised the triumphs and trophies of 
cookery ; then was hospitality esteemed, neighbourhood preserved, 
the poor cherished, and God honoured ; then was religion less talked 
on and more practised ; then did men strive to be good rather than 
to seem so." 

This practical exponent of the art of cookery opens 
his book with a few Bills of Fare. That for a 
Christmas Day dinner is no doubt characteristic of 
the Restoration period. The repast was to begin 
with oysters. Next came a collar of brawn ; after 
that stewed broth of mutton marrow-bones ; then a 
grand sallet (salad), to be followed by a pottage 
of caponets. 

Either this pottage or the mutton broth may have 
been that old national dish of which the plum- 
pudding is a solid development. Plum-broth or 
plum-porridge, or plum-pottage as it was indifferently 
called, was served at the commencement of the 
Christmas dinner ; and May, who is evidently a 
Royalist, would not willingly have shown disrespect 
to a venerable institution which had been banned 
by the Roundheads. Either, therefore, he counted 
the plum -broth so much a matter of course as not 
to be worth mentioning, or one of the soups above 
named must have been identical with it. There were 
many ways of making plum-pottage, and in the 
Toiler, 1710, Addison observes that "no man of 
the most rigid virtue gives offence by an excess 
in plum-pudding or plum -porridge, because they are 
the first parts of the dinner." 

The plainest recipe in the book for mutton broth 
includes saffron and raisins. 

Presently come the sirloin of beef and the mince- 
pies, sweetbreads, a venis6n pastry, and custards — 
one described as a custard without eggs. 



COOKERY-BOOK DIVERSIONS 251 

There are two courses, of twenty-one dishes in 
each course, but, unfortunately, we are not told for 
how many persons this meal is prepared. 

The second course opened with oranges and 
lemons, refreshed with which the guests were 
expected to tackle a lamb or kid, two couple of 
rabbits (one larded), and a " pig souced, with 
tongues." A pig was "souced" by boiling it in 
wine and water, and destroying his flavour with the 
ubiquitous nutmeg. Justice having been done to 
the pig, there were ducks, pheasants, and more 
partridges (the half of each dish larded), a swan 
pie, another made dish, and Bolonia sausages with 
anchovies, mus.hrooms, caviare, and pickled oysters. 
The flagging appetite having been roused by these 
hors-d'oeuvres, six teal were to be set on the table, 
a gammon of Westphalia bacon, ten plovers, and a 
quince pie or a warden pie. It may be mentioned 
that in Charles II.'s time the words "tart" and 
" pie " seem to have been used indifferently ; one 
reads of "marrow tarts " and "partridge tarts." 

There now remained to be disposed of six wood- 
cocks, " a standing tart in puff paste, preserved 
fruits, pippins," &c., a dish of larks, six dried neats' 
tongues, sturgeon, powdered {i.e., salted) geese, and, 
lastly, jellies. Surely a bounteous Christmas dinner 
— if one's stomach were of sufficient strength and 
capacity I 

The suffering of our ancestors in the messes they 
had to eat and drink is an oft-told tale which is told 
nowhere more quaintly than in " The Closet of the 
Eminently Learned Sir Kenelm Digby, Kt., Opened." 
This book was " published by his son's consent " 
in the year 1671, a few years after his death, and! 
we are told in the Preface that " there neelds no 
Rhetoricating Floscules to set it off." The volume 
practically consists of Sir Kenelm's private recipe- 



252 GOOD CHEER 

book, and is full of learned disquisitions on the drinks 
and dishes which then found favour with English 
palates — " a sufficiency of solids as well as liquids 
for the sating the curiosities of each, or the nicest 
Palate." 

Advocates of the simple life will be horrified to 
read how " to fatten young chickens in a wonderfull 
degree." Part of this runs : " Their drink must 
be onely Milk, in another little trough by a meat- 
trough. Let a candle (fitly disposed) stand by them 
all night ; for, seeing their meat, they will eat it 
all night long." Another poultry -fattening recipe 
advises : " Let them have water or strong Ale to 
drink. They will be very drunk and sleep ; then 
eat again." 

It was Sir Kenelm's deliberate opinion that 
flomery was a food suited to the adult and philoso- 
pher, notwithstanding that his contemporary, Locke, 
had practically relegated it to the dietary of children. 
To make wheaten flomery we are instructed to soak 
best wheat bran in water for three or four days, 
" strain out the milky water from it, and boil it up 
to a gelly," season it with sugar and orange-flower 
water, and let it stand imtil it is cold. It shouM 
be eaten " with white or Rhenish wine, or Cream, or 
Milk, or Ale." 

Those who would proceed to a greater luxury 
might indulge in Flomery Caudle. This " pleasant 
and wholesome caudle " was made by mixing ale zind 
wine together, and putting into the mixture a few 
spoonfuls of cold flomery. After stirring it all up 
we are gravely informed that there will be found 
remaining in the caudle some lumps of the congealed 
flomery which are not ungrateful. 

Then there was Sack Posset, into the composition 
of which entered, of course, sack — whether this was 
sherry, or a white wine, or a mixture (as some anti- 



COOKERY-BOOK DIVEESIONS 253 

quaries suppose) of sherry, cider, and sugar. 
Sack Posset, according to Sir Kenelm, was a mixture 
of half a pint of sack, two quarts of cream, the 
yolks of ten eg'gs, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, 
spices, and " amber -greece." It was to be poured 
" from a height "—after the manner of serving a 
cocktail — and might be taken either hot or cold. 

Another remarkable mess was Pap, which appears, 
from the particularly careful recipe he gives, to have 
been a favourite food with Sir Kenelm. There 
were several sorts, and here is his method of pre- 
paring oatmeal pap. A little oatmeal was boiled 
in milk, and then strained. Some butter and yolk 
of egg were beaten up with it, and the whole was 
then flavoured with orange-flower water and amber- 
gris. 

Among the solids a recipe for an " excellent 
pudding " is given. We are to take some tripe and 
cut it into thin shreds, some pork treated in the same 
manner, and " mingle them together." Salt, pepper, 
aniseed, and coriander-seeds must be added. Then 
" make a Liaison with a little Milk and yoke of 
eggs,^' and after thoroughly blending the whole to- 
gether, make an enormous " sassage " of it. 

A 'distinguishing feature of this book is the number 
of aristocratic friends quoted as authorities for vary- 
ing the forms of the recipes given. For instance, 
the accomplished knight gives quite a hundred 
methods of preparing mead or metheglin, the well- 
known fermented drink made from honey, including 
the " white metheglin of My Lady Hungerford, which 
is greatly praised," and the special brew of Sir 
Thomas Gower, which is a " metheglin for health." 
The Countess of Bullingbrook and my Lady Morrice 
have each their own way of preparing the beverage, 
and Sir William^ Paxton has two methods. Sir 
Baynam Throckmorton always put " am'ber -greece " 



254 GOOD CHEER 

into his, while Sir John Fortescue cleared his with 
white of egg, and Lord Herbert actually added the 
egg-shells. The Countess of Dorset put in " Maiden- 
hair " and " Roman worm-wood," and the Muscovian 
Ambassador's steward flavoured his master's methe- 
glin with aniseed — and so on with the remarkable 
multiformity of this beverage which apparently was 
so popular in the higher circles. Sir Kenelm's book 
is not without interest as a social document ; the 
writer had not only a passion for cookery, which 
was a part of his philosophy, but he was a courtier, 
a poet, and a Fellow of the Royal Society. 

The Queen Mother, as we learn from her faithful 
Chancellor, used to take a very nourishing meat- 
juice, called " Pressis Nourissant," instead of supper. 
The method of preparing this early form of meat 
extract is carefully given. Barely half-roast a leg 
of mutton, a piece of veal, and a capon ; then 
" squeeze all their juyce in a press with screws " ; 
add the juice of an orange, and slightly warm. 

Sir Kenelm's little book ends with a very con- 
venient Table of Contents, from which many other 
interesting items of information may be gleaned ; 
as the many ways of treating quinces, which was quite 
a popular fruit in olden times, and the best way of 
cooking " Poor John," the coarsest and cheapest kind 
of salted dried fish then in use." 

" It is a curious old world we get glimpses of," 
says Miss Macdonnell, the latest editor of this in- 
teresting old book, " at once barbarous, simple, and 
extravagant, when great ladies were expected to see 
to the milking of the cows as closely' as Joan Croin- 
well supervised her milch-kine in St. James's Park, 
and to the cleanliness of their servants' arms and 
hands, and when huntsmen rode at the bidding of 
the icook." 

" The jQueen-like Closet, or Rich Cabinet," written 



COOKERY-BOOK DIVERSIONS 255 

by Hannah Woolly, appeared in 1681, a small duo- 
decimo, priced at sixpence. It was an abstract of 
recipes in cookery, confectionery, cosmetics, needle- 
work, " morality," and other matters directly affecting 
womankind in the exercise of her housecraft and other 
homely duties. The culinary recipes have nothing 
remarkable in them except the costliness of carry- 
ing them into effect. Everything — ^to the meanest 
of meats — is sopped in claret, steeped in claret, basted 
with claret, as if claret were as cheap as water. It 
may be recalled that Bacon looks upon this wine 
almost as if it were ditchwater, for he recomm|ends 
the opening of a turf or two in the g;arden walks, and 
pouring into each a bottle of clalret " to recreate 
the sense of smelling, being no less grateful than 
beneficial." 
'Before the close of the eighteenth century a goodly 
number of books on the subject had appeared, the 
authors generally sheltering themselves behind the 
appellation of " A Lady," although Dr. Johnson had 
declared that no woman could write a cookery-book, 
and threatened to Write one himself. The anonymity 
of the " lady " who, in 1748, taught the world how 
" to roast a pound of butter " has saved her name 
from being immortalised, as it deserved to be. 

Whoever the writers were, they generally managed 
while teaching the art of cookery, to add a number 
of miscellaneous observations on life and conduct, 
such as would be likely to prove useful to a girl 
whose education had been confined to the book- 
learning of the schoolroom. No doubt such books 
did prove serviceable to our great -great -grand- 
mothers, whose mode of life was so different from' 
that of the present-day girl. 

It is not generally known that the Celebrated 
cookery-book which bears the mythical name 
" Hannah Glasse " was really written by Dr, Hill, 



256 GOOD CHEER 

who was one of the most voluminous hack writers 
of the eighteenth century. It was of this worthy, 
when he had failed as a dramatic author, that Garrick 
uttered the epigram : — 

"For physic and farces, his equal there scarce is. 
His farces are physic, his physic a farce is." 

Mrs. Glasse's "Art of Cookery Made Plain and 
Easy " appeared in 1746, but it was written, as Dilly, 
the publisher, told Dr. Johnson, by Dr. Hill. 
" Hannah Glasse " was as much a myth as was 
Sairey Gamp's " Mrs. Harris." Nor are the words 
" first catch your hare," generally attributed to 
"Mrs. Glasse," to be found in "The Art of 
Cookery." The nearest words are " take your hare 
when it is cased " — that is, skinned. 

In a rival cookery-book, however, which professes 
to correct a thousand errors of " Mrs. Glasse," the 
author speaks of a fresh codfish as one " hot out 
of the sea." On the other hand, her recipes for 
" Pigeons in Pimlico," " How to make a West- 
minster Fool," and " To dress Flat-fish " were con- 
sidered admirable in their day. 

A bill of fare, " after the most modern fashicm " 
of 1746, was a curious jumble of rabbits and cherry- 
tarts, lobsters and greengages, served side by side 
in the most remarkable manner. Reading through 
these quaintly-written pages, we wonder : Did our 
forefathers really enjoy the pleasures of the table 
in this indiscriminate fashion, turning lightly from the 
orange-pudding to the lobster-soup ; toying with the 
" ragoo of fat livers " after trifling with the ice-, 
cream ; and revelling in the " nice derangement " of 
the courses where green goose and apricot -tart with 
custards appeared at the same time? 

With mock humility the author writes : " If I 
have not wrote in the high -polite style I hope I 



COOKERY-BOOK DIVERSIONS 257 

shall be forgiven, for my Intention is to instruct 
the lower sort and I must treat them in their own 
way. But the great cooks have such a high way 
of expressing themselves, that the poor girls are often 
at a loss." 

In the Preface the writer demolishes all " those 
French gentry who pretend to be better cooks than 
Britons may be made by taking pains." With com- 
mendable vigour an attack is made upon the heresy 
that plain English dishes taste any the better for 
being called by French names. 

Housekeeping was the serious business of life to 
the discreet matrons who drew their inspiration from 
the worthy "Mrs. Glasse " and her compeers. 

Notwithstanding the positiveness of the Johnsonian 
theory as to the identity of "Mrs. Glasse," it is 
only right to recall that in 1858 a contributor to 
Notes and Queries gave an entirely different account 
of the disputed authorship. He writes that he has 
in his possession a copy of " The Art of Cookery 
made Plain and Easy, &c., by a Lady, the 4th 
edition, &c ., 1751 : London, printed for the Author, 
and sold at the Blue-coat Boy, near the Royal Ex- 
change ; at Mrs. Ashburn's China-shop, the Comer 
of Fleet Ditch ; at the Leg and Dial, in Fleet Street, 
&c., &c." Attached is the warning : — 

" This BOOK is published with His Majesty's Royal Licence : and 
whoever prints it, or any Part of it, will be prosecuted." 

Opposite the title (continues this contributor) is 
a copper-plate, surmounted by the arms of the Prince 
of Wales ; and the following inscription, which will 
at once inform us who Mrs. Glasse was : — 

" Hannah Glasse, Habit Maker to Her Royal Highness the 
Princess of Wales, in Tavistock Street, Covent Garden. Makes 
and Sells all Sorts of Riding Habits, Josephs, Great-Coats, Horse- 
men's Coats, Russia Coats, Hussar Coats, Bedgowns, Night Gowns, 

17 



258 GOOD CHEER 

and Robe de Shambers, Widows Weeds, Sultains, Sultans, and 
Cantouches, after the neatest manner. Likewise Parliament, Judges, 
and Councellors Robes, Italian Robes, Cossockoons, Capuchins, 
Newmarket Cloaks, Long Cloaks, Short Do., Quilted Coats, Hoop 
Petticoats, Under Coats. All Sorts of Fringes and Laces as Cheap 
as from the Makers. Bennetts, Hatts, Short Hoods and Caps of all 
Sorts. Plain Sattins, Sasnetts and Persians. All Sorts of Childbed 
Linning, Cradles, Baskets, and Robes. Also Stuffs, Camblets, 
Calimancoes, and Worsted Damasks, Norwich Crapes and Bum- 
basins, Scarlet Cloaths, Duffel 3 and Frizes, Dimity s. New Market 
Hunting Caps, &c. Likewise all sorts of Masquerade Dresses." 

Here is the evidence in this old literary con- 
troversy, and the reader has the agreeable choice 
between an interesting abstraction and an advertising 
habit -maker. 

The lady students of the old-time cookery-books 
could go into their own gardens and gather the 
faggot of sweet herbs which was to impart flavour 
and fragrance to the " ragoos " and savouries ; or 
the marigolds which poor Charles Lamb hated so 
much when they floated on his mess of Charter 
House School pottage. Our great -great -grand- 
mothers, indeed, spent a considerable part of their 
lives culling simples, gathering fruits, expressing 
juices, and spying out things to pickle. And it all 
had to be done to method. " Gather your currants 
while the sun is hot upon them," said the monitor 
of the cookery-book ; some leaves were to be picked 
in the dry and some in the cool ; by the inviolable 
rules of the stillroom there was nothing to be done 
haphazard. 

The month of May was regarded as the proper 
time to distil herbs, which were then at their greatest 
perfection. 

Our domesticated progenitresses pickled parsley 
green to cheat grim winter of some of its depriva- 
tions ; they pickled nasturtium seeds, or else the 
seeds of elder while they were green, to use as a 



COOKERY-BOOK DIVERSIONS 259 

substitute for capers ; they pickled radish-pods, 
horse-radish, young artichokes, samphire, and even 
marigolds . 

Having pickled every green shoot, pod, and seed 
they could adapt to their purpose, they began to do 
the same by plums, apricots, peaches, currants, and 
grapes — when they set about making jams no fruit 
escaped them, and sometimes not the vegetables. 

>When they made cakes it was the same. They 
could make tarts with sorrel. Parsnips and rasp- 
berries were made into cakes ; red beetroot, potatoes, 
and oranges were converted into biscuits. The old 
recipe for violet cakes is worth quoting : — 

" Take the finest violets you can get, pick off the leaves, beat the 
violets fine in a mortar with the juice of a lemon, beat and sift twice 
their weight of double-refined sugar, pour your sugar and violets 
into a silver saucepan or tankard, set it over a slow fire, keep stirring 
it gently until all your sugar is dissolved ; if you let it boil it will 
discolour your violets ; drop them in china plates ; when you take 
them off put them in a box, with paper between every layer." 

And very charming and ethereal the result must have 
been. 

Our great-greatHgrandmothers were all women who 
had " shaken hands with a saucepan." With them 
wine-making was a recognised branch of female 
industry. They could make it from dandelions, 
elderberries, cowslips, rhubarb, currants, parsnips, 
or from almost anything they chose — these models of 
domesticity produced, when put to it, sycamore, birch, 
walnut, blackberry, and balm wines. 

" In her very style of looking 
There was cognisance of cooking ! 
From her very dress were peeping 
Indications of house-keeping." 

The housewife of the period was as immersed 
in domesticity as were the herbs and flowers she 
drowned in teas and decoctions. 



260 GOOD CHEER 

Again, these dainty housewives of a bygone 
generation introduced poetical ideas into their culi- 
nary art ; there was often a play of fancy about 
some of their dishes. In turning over the pages of 
one of their favourite cookery-books, one may find 
directions how to spin gold and silver webs for 
dessert, how to make an obelisk or a Chinese temple 
in sweetstuff, or how to build a hen's nest with strips 
of lemon for straw, and holding eggs filled with 
flummery. There is a high-flown recipe for " Moon 
and Stars in Jelly," and a finer flight of the imagina- 
tion is " Solomon's Temple in Flummery." 

In solids and savouries the fancy also played just 
as lightly. ,We learn how " To make a Porcupine 
of a Breast of Veal," " To Barbecue a Pig," and 
even to bombard veal. But when we read " How 
to Florendine a Hare," and " To make a Solomon 
Gundy," we suspect we have struck a bad spelling 
o'f " Florentine " and " Salmagundi." 

How vividly all this recalls sweet memories of 
the old-world gardens we have seen, some few of 
which still exist in out-of-the-way places, with their 
basil, hyssop, rue, burnet, balm, sorrel, tansy, fennel, 
and rosemary ; with pot-herbs and small saladings ; 
with all that the garden adjimct to the stillroom 
produced " a-purpose." But where are now the 
accomplished housewives who know their virtues and 
how to make use of them:? And are our tastes as 
refined and delicate nowadays when mint, sage, and 
parsley almost exhaust our garden flavourings, and 
borage gives way to cuciunber in claret cup? 

Other cookery-books of renown are those of 
Hunter, Raff aid, Rundell, and Kitchiner. Also 
worthy to be placed on the same shelf was " The 
Cook and Housewife's Manual " of Mistress Meg 
Dods, hostess of the Cleikum Inn, St. Ronans, which 
was published in 1826. The real author of the book 



COOKERY-BOOK DIVERSIONS 261 

is believed to be Mrs. Johnston, author of many 
excellent tales and novels. "Timothy Tickler" 
relates how he, with a dozen others, entered a Haggis 
sweepstakes, and that his Haggis ran second to that 
of Mrs. Meg Dods. 

Dr. Kitchiner was an eccentric who practised what 
he taught, and had ample means for the purpose. 
He inherited £70,000 firom his father, which was 
more than sufficient to enable him to work out his 
ideal of life. He wrote several other pleasant works 
besides the " Cook's Oracle," which is full of 
common-sense practice ; one of them was a volume 
of National Songs, published for the coronation of 
George IV. in 1820. 

He was an epicure, an experimenter in cookery, 
and had a nice taste in the selection of viands, yet 
was himself abstemious withal. His dinners iwere 
always cooked according to his own method, and he 
gave a conversazione every Tuesday evening. Over 
his drawing-room chimney was a placard bearing the 
notice, " Come at seven, go at eleven." George 
Colman, the actor, once being one of his guests, 
slyly inserted the word " it " after the word "go." 
All the same, no deviation was allowed from the 
doctor's usual practice — on the stroke of eleven hats, 
coats, and umbrellas were brought in, and a hearty, 
" Good-night " sped the departing guests. The form 
of invitation issued on these occasions ran in this 
wise : — 

" Dear Sir, — ^The honour of your company is requested to dine 
with the Committee of Taste, on Wednesday next, the loth inst. 
The specimens will be placed on the table at five o'clock pre- 
cisely, when the business of the day will immediately commence. 
" I have the honour to be 

" Your most obedient servant 
"W. Kitchiner (Sec.)] 
"August 25, 1825, 
"43, Warren Street, Fitsroy Square." 



262 GOOD CHEER 

Appended was a paper of the " business " : — 

" At the last general meeting it was unanimously resolved that 
an invitation to ETA BETA PI must be answered in writing within 
24 hours, &c. 

" Therefore to ensure the punctual attendance of those illustrious 
gastrophilists who are invited to join this high tribunal of taste — 
It was irrevocably resolved, That the janitor be ordered not to 
admit any visitor, of whatever eminence of appetite, after the hour 
at which the secretary shall have announced that the specimens 
are ready, &c. 

"By Order of the Committee.'' 

And so joking and hospitality went ever hand in 
hand with this benevolent, good-humoured, and whim- 
sical old doctor. 

As was to be expected, if Dr. Kitchiner would 
devote the profundity of his doctor's learning to 
the alchemy of the kitchen, he could scarcely hope 
to escape the punning pen of Tom Hood, who 
implored the Muses to — 

"Teach my burning soul to speak 
With a bubble and a squeak ! 
Of Dr. Kitchiner I fain would sing 
Till pots and pans and mighty kettles ring ! 

O culinary sage 
(I do not mean the herb in use 
That always goes along with goose) 
How have I feasted on thy page !" 

French influence was again brought to bear on 
English cuisine when Louise Eustache Ude, for- 
merly cook to the unfortunate Louis XVI., became 
chef to the Earl of Sefton, and wrote " The French 
Cook." 

Notwithstanding a plethora of cookery-books, 
cookery as an art, with all its ancient splendour of 
design, almost disappeared from English homes in 
the long and dreary period during which it was the 
sole repertory of the sex that was told to be good, 



COOKERY-BOOK DIVERSIONS 263 

whoever might be clever. No pious opinion was 
more universally held than that a kitchen without a 
female cook was as a garden without a flower, and 
that the intrusion of the male cook within this 
province was an outrageous usurpation of one of the 
most precious rights of woman. And then, at last, 
appeared the male cook who was the Napoleon of 
his art — Alexis Soyer, greatest of chefs, and a culinary 
reformer whose newer practice all men upheld, whose 
sovereign authority no man could question. 

In 1846 Soyer published "The Gastronomic 
Regenerator," a marvellous cookery-book in which 
the eagle eye of that great commander of kitchens 
overlooked nothing ; he showed his mastery of 
materials and weapons in everything ; he was match- 
less in his hors d'oeuvres, unassailable in his 
removes, impregnable in his piices de resistance, 
unconquerable with his flanks. 

The advent of Soyer marked a new era ; the old 
rule-of -thumb in the kitchen was passing ; a revival 
in the art of English cookery had set in. 



XXII 

EPICURES 

"Gourmet "and "gourmand" — Philosophy of Epicurus — Abstem- 
iousness not gormandising — " Sir Epicure " — An erroneous 
conception — Surfeit — Its penalties — The Divine Hungerer — 
And the devil as host — The gourmand delineated by the 
dramatist — ^Archcslratus — Scoured the world for new luxuries 
— Dishes of singing birds — Luxurious snail cultivation — Apicius 
— His prodigality — A cloistered Emperor's indulgence — Louis 
VIII.'s glorious dish fatally surfeits a courtier — Louis XV. — 
Inventor of tables volantes — The English Heliogabalus — 
"Almanach des Gourmands" — Amphitryon — Brillat-Savarin — 
" The Philosophy of Taste "—Rev. Sydney Smith— Corrected by 
George Augustus Sala — Timothy Tickler sauce — Scott as a 
gourmet — Decline of French gastronomy — Gastronomical pro- 
prieties — Fads and fastidiousness — Invention of the sandwich. 

The terms " gourmet " and " gourmand " are very 
generally confused, though they ought not to be, 
their respective meanings being so very different. 
" Gourmet " signifies, in French, a judge of wine, 
and " gourmand " a glutton, or, more mildly, a gas- 
tronomist. But both vvrords are now commonly used 
to designate a gastronomist, " one who lives well." 
The correct definition of an " epicure " is one 
who, however humble his fare, will have it of the 
best of its kind. It is really wTong to apply the 
term " epicure " to one whose chief pleasure is a 
voluptuous gratification of the appetite. Rousseau 
was only re-echoing the m,axim of Epicurus when 




THE gourmand's LIBRARY. 

French, Early igth Century. 

From "Almanach des Gourmands." 

(Copy kindly lent by Frank Schloesscr, Esq.) 



EPICURES 265 

he said, " Abstaining, so as really to enjoy, is 
epicurism." 

Epicurus, the philosopher of Gargettus, was less 
addicted to mensal than to mental converse ; his 
disciples were deservedly praised by Cicero, Quin- 
tilian, and other competent authorities, as a fraternity 
of love, as a goodly fellowship of moral excellence 
and superlative wisdom. He inculcated the strictest 
command of the passions. 

The fat swine of Epicurus' sty, with whom and 
at whom and his dainty friend Catius the kitchener, 
Horace discusses the mensal tablets of the " Gor- 
mandiser's Almanac," are wrong in calling themselves 
disciples of the abstemious Gargetian, who in his 
"trim gardens took delight." 

The Gargetian was not " the damned Epicurean 
rascal " whom Shakespeare objurgates ; nor were 
his followers the beastly swine satirised by the 
delicate Venusian. As a matter of fact Horace was 
himself a true Epicurean. Admittedly the poet was 
addicted to luxurious living, was fat, and even 
troubled with a corpulent belly ; but he was 
Epicurean in the sense that he was a Quietist, pro- 
fessing a philosophy of " dispassion " for the enjoy- 
ment of peace of conscience and a tranquil mind. 
Horace was no vulgar gormandiser. 

As an opprobrious term " Epicurean " among the 
Jews signified an infidel or unbeliever. 

Ben Jonson, in his comedy entitled " The Alchy- 
mist," has a character, a worldly sensualist, whom 
he dubs Sir Epicure Mammon. He is repre- 
sented as being so fastidious that he leaves such 
fare as pheasants, calvered salmon, knottes, good- 
wits, and lampreys to his footboy ; his exquisite 
taste directing his own efforts to such dainties as 
cockles boiled in silver shells, shrimps swimming 
in butter of dolphins' milk, carp tongues, camels' 



266 GOOD CHEER 

heels, barbels' beards, and boiled dormice. Calvered 
salmon, it may be explained, was fresh salmon cooked 
in a specially rich manner, while knottes were little 
birds which, properly cooked, made delici^s eating. 
It is thus Abraham Cowley sings " the epicure " : — 

" Fill the bowl with rosy wine, 
Around our temples roses twine, 
And let us cheerfully awhile, 
Like the wine and roses, smile. 
Crowned with roses, we contemn 
Gyges' wealthy diadem. 
To-day is ours ; what do we fear ? 
Lef s treat it kindly, that it may 
Wish at least with us to stay. 
Let's banish business, banish sorrow ; 
To the gods belongs to-morrow." 

This is the vulgar conception — and a vulgar error. 

Epicurus, the founder of the last philosophic sect 
in Athens, was really an apostle of temperance, with 
his barley -cake and water. His was a spare diet, 
on which no one was likely to over-eat himself or 
to get fat. 

It was an aphorism of Hippocrates that fat animals 
—man and beast — die early. " Surfeit slays more 
than htmger " is another aphorism in the philosophy 
of dietetics. 

Dante displayed his spirit of saturnine malignity 
and sarcasm by figuring, in his " Purgatorio," the 
gourmets and gourmands of his time as miserably 
lean and skinny apparitions. 

The severest satire on the surfeits of the full 
table is the banquet which Satan, in " Paradise Re- 
gained," provides for the temptation of the Divine 
Hungerer in the wilderness : — 

" A table richly spread in regal mode 
With dishes piled, and meats of noblest sort 
And savour; beasts of chase, or fowl of game, 



EPICURES 267 

In pastry built, or from the spit, or boiled, 
Gris-amber-steamed ; all fish from sea or shore, 
Freshet or purling brook, for which was drained 
Pontus, and Lucrine bay, and Afric coast." 

As an able critic has rightly said, this visionary- 
feast of the poet was a temptation fitter for Helio- 
gabalus than the plain hunger of the Guest, for 
whose simple wants the cook -fiend would in vain 
conjure up his artillery of sauces. But there's the 
satire— 'tis the devil that plays the host. 

The " gourmand " has been delineated for us 
by Beaumont and Fletcher (or rather John Fletcher) 
in the play of "The .Woman Hater" (1607) :— 

"'Tis an excellent thing to be a prince; he is 
Served with such admirable variety of fare, 
Such innumerable choice of delicates ; 
His tables are full fraught with most nourishing food. 
And his cupboards heavy laden with rich wines; 
His court is still fill'd with most pleasing varieties ; 
In the summer his palace is full of green geese. 
And in winter it swarmeth woodcocks. 
Oh, thou goddess of plenty ; 
Fill me this day with some rare delicates, 
And I will every year most constantly. 
As this day, celebrate a sumptuous feast 
(If thou wilt send me victuals) in thine honour ! 
And to it shall be bidden, for thy sake, 
Ev'n all the valiant stomachs in the court ; 
All short-cloak'd knights, and all cross-garter' d gentlemen ; 
All pump and pantofle, foot-cloth riders ; 
With all the swarming generation 
Of long stocks, short pain'd hose, and huge stuff 'd doublets." 

.Whatever the correct definitions of " epicure," 
" gourmet," and " gourmand " may be, the terms 
have come to be used interchangeably to designate 
the man who is addicted to good' eating and drinking. 
In " Anthony and Cleopatra " Shakespeare phrases 
it :— 

" Epicurean cooks 
Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite." 



268 GOOD CHEER 

To learn the foibles of this class of men it will 
be best to go to real characters. Archestratus, in 
his culinary masterpiece, acknowledges there are 
some things for the summer, and some dishes for 
the winter, and though we cannot have the'm all 
at the same time, there is at least nothing to prevent 
our talking about them at all times. This great 
genius travelled far over land ajid sea that he might 
critically examine things for himself, with a view 
to discovering new table luxuries and improving 
others. He indicates the places for peculiar edibles^ 
for exquisite potables, and promulgates his pre- 
cepts with the zeal of a sublime legislator. 

The Roman search for rare and costly dainties 
with which to tickle the palate led them to such 
extravagant dishes as the tongues of nightingales, 
the brains of peacocks, and the roes of the most 
delicious small fishes. We read of one luxurious 
Roman who had a dish prepared which cost £422, 
and consisted of a variety of singing and talking 
birds, each of which was valued at £25. 

Snails were in great esteem with the Romans. 
Fulvius Hilpinus, not long before the civil war 
between Cassar and Pompey, made in his garden 
several enclosures for the feeding of snails, keeping 
every species by itself ; there might be seen the white 
snails of Reate, the grey and great snails of lUy- 
ricum, the fruitful snails of Africa, and the Solitan 
snails, most famous and excellent of all. None of 
them were allowed to feed upon the shrubs and 
plants, but were given a kind of pap, made of sweet 
wine, honey, and flour, by which they were fed so 
fat, and became so wholesome and delicious, that 
they were greatly sought after, and as we may read, 
sold for eighty quadrants a dishful. 

The favourite dish of .(Esop, the actor, was com- 
posed of the tongues of such birds as had the faculty 



EPICURES 269 

of imitating the human voice. Pollio, to give his 
lampreys a more exquisite flavour, fattened them 
upon human flesh ; but the most famous of the 
Roman gourmands was Apicus, who reduced eating 
to a system, and delivered lectures on the various 
modes of pleasing the pampered taste. A Roman 
cookery-book purporting to have been compiled by 
Apicius has been handed down to the present day. 
It is doubtful whether it really was written by the 
renowned belly-god — it may possibly have been 
issued under the prestige of his great name. 

Apicius poured into his stomach an immense for- 
tune. He usually resided at Minturna, a town in 
Campania, where he ate shrimps at a high price ; 
these were so large, that those of Smyrna, and the 
prawns of Alexandria, could not be compared with 
the shrimps of Minturna. However, the luckless 
epicure was informed that the shrimps of Africa were 
more monstrous. Forthwith he embarked on a 
voyage to find these appetising dainties. He braved 
storms and encountered many dangers in the quest, 
only to be disappointed and to hurry back to the 
shrimps of his own Minturna. 

Having expended immense treasures on the inven- 
tion of new dishes, Apicius at last killed himself 
because his fortune was insufficient to carry out all 
the magnificent conceptions he had formed. 

Pliny calls this Apicius the barathrum, the abyss, 
of all youth. At length so many subjects of taste, 
so many provocatives of luxury, so many varieties 
of dainties, were invented by these Apicians, that 
it was thought requisite to restrain the luxury of the 
kitchen. Hence all those ancient sumptuary laws 
which bridled people's mouths and sought to prevent 
prodigality at feasts. 

The epicurean habits of the Emperor Charles V., 
during the " cloister life " to which he retired, have 



270 GOOD CHEER 

been fully described for us by Sir W. Stirling!- 
Maxwell. It was his indulgence at table which in- 
flamed his gout. Roger Ascham was astounded to 
see the Emperor's progress through " sod beef, roast 
mutton, baked hare," after which " he fed well off 
a capon " washed down with a quart of Rhenish. 
Eating was his only physical gratification, and he 
could not resist it. The supply of his table was the 
main subject of his correspondence with the Secretary 
of State. 

The weekly courier between Valladolid and Lisbon 
was ordered to change his route every Thursday 
that he might bring a provision of eels and other 
rich fish for the royal fast on Friday. 

There was a constant demand for anchovies, tunny, 
and other potted fish, and sometimes a complaint that 
the trouts of the country were too small ; the olives, 
on the other hand, were too large, and the Emperor 
wished, instead, for olives of Perejon. One day the 
Secretary of State was asked for some partridges 
from Gama, a place from which the Emperor 
remembers that the Count of Orsono once sent him, 
into Flanders, some of the best partridges in the 
world. Another day sausages were wanted " of the 
kind which the Queen Juana, now in glory, used to 
pride herself in making, in the Flemish fashion at 
Tordesillas," and for the recipe for which the 
Secretary was referred to the Marquess of Denia. Both 
orders were punctually executed. The sausages, 
although sent to a land supreme in that manufacture, 
gave great satisfaction. Of the partridges, the 
Emperor said that they used to be better, ordering, 
however, the remainder to be pickled. The 
Emperor's weakness being generally known or soon 
discovered, dainties of all kinds were sent to him 
as presents. Mutton, pork, and game were the pro- 
visions ntiost easily obtained at Xarandilla, but they 



EPICURES 271 

were dear. The bread was indifferent, and nothing 
was good and abundant but chestnuts, the staple 
food of the people. But in a very few days the 
castle larder wanted for nothing. One day the Count 
of Oropesa sent an offering of game ; another day 
a pair of fat calves arrived from the Archbishop of 
Zaragoza ; the Archbishop of Toledo and the 
Duchess of Frias were constant and magnificent in 
their gifts of venison, fruit, and preserves ; and 
supplies of all kinds came at regular intervals from 
Seville and from Portugal. Luis Quixada, who knew 
the Emperor's habits and constitution well, beheld 
with dismay these long trains of mules laden, as it 
were, with gout and bile. 

To France, land of culinary inventiveness, we 
should naturally look for examples of epicureanism. 
But we have to look high. The coarse and meagre 
fare of the common people in pre -Revolution days, 
with the burden of the Gabelle and other iniquitous 
imposts, is not likely to yield us any. 

Louis VI n. invented a dish called truffes d la 
puree d' ortolans . The happy few who tasted this 
dish, as concocted by the royal hand of Louis himself, 
described it as the very perfection of the culinary 
art. The Due d'Escars was sent for one day by 
his royal master for the purpose of assisting' 
in the preparation of a glorious dish of this 
delicacy, and their joint efforts being more than 
usually successful, the happy friends sat down to 
truffes a la puree d'ortolans for ten, the whole of 
which they caused to disappear between them, and 
then each retired to rest, triumphing in the success 
of their happy toils. In the middle of the night, 
however, the Due d'Escars suddenly awoke, and 
found himself alarmingly indisposed. He rang the 
bells of his apartment, when his servant came in, 
and his physicians were sent for ; but they were 



272 GOOD CHEER 

of no avail, for he was dying of a surfeit. In his 
last moments he caused some of his attendants to 
go and inquire whether his Majesty were not suffering 
in a similar manner with himself, but they found 
him sleeping soundly and quietly. In the morning, 
when the King was informed of the sad catastrophe to 
his faithful friend and servant, he exclaimed, " Ah ! 
I told him I had the better digestion of the two," 

Louis XV., himself a practical cook of singular 
proficiency, continued to foster the development of 
the school which his predecessors at Court — Catherine 
de Medicis for one — had promoted. During the 
Regency, attention had for the first time been paid 
to the chemistry of cookery ; the dinners of the 
Regent had been celebrated for their combination 
of refinement and art, " for matelotes of the most 
tempting quality," says Brillat-Savarin, " and for 
turkeys superbly stuffed." It was to Louis XV. that 
Madame du Barry gave the celebrated petit souper 
which led to the institution of the Order of the 
Cordon Bleu for accomplished cuisiniers ; and he 
is credited with the invention of tables volantes 
which, after each course, descended through the floor, 
and rose again replenished with fresh surprises. 

The first Earl of Carlisle was known as the English 
Heliogabalus. When he travelled in France his horse 
was loosely shod with silver, so that on entering a 
paved town the animal in prancing and curveting 
would cast his valuable shoes. But a silver-smith 
was always at hand to take other shoes from a tawny 
velvet bag and tack them on as needed. At one of 
his grand banquets a servant of the king was given 
a pie to eat which had cost ten pounds. 

It was the ambition of this magnificent noble that 
his suppers should please the eye as well as the 
palate. On such occasions the company was ushered 
in to a table covered with the most elegant art, and 



EPICURES 273 

all in the greatest profusion. Every artistic effect 
iw'hich could (be produced in combination by the silver- 
smith, the confectioner, tlie cook, and the decorator 
was found there. But, of course, while the company 
was inspecting and admiring this delicate display 
the viands grew cold, and therefore unfit for choice 
palates. Then suddenly the doors were flung open, 
this ante-supper, as it was called, was quickly re- 
moved and another supper, quite hot, and presenting 
in every detail the exact duplicate of the one taken 
away, was served in its place with every perfection 
of generous profusion and ceremonial elegance. 

In 1803 M. Grimod de la Reyniere produced his; 
" Almanach des Gourmands," the first serious attempt 
to invest gastronomy with the air of an intellectual 
and refined pursuit. In a subsequent work, " Le 
Manuel des Amphitryons," this great Trench authority 
gave a dissertation upon the art of carving, a com- 
pendium of menus, together with some informative 
notes on the polite art of dining. 

The title of the last-named work recalls the 
classical fable from which it borrows its nomen- 
clature. Jupiter assumed the likeness of Amphitryon 
and gave a banquet ; but Amphitryon himself came 
home and claimed the honour of being the master of 
the house. As far as the servants and guests were 
concerned, the dispute was soon decided — he who 
gave the feast was to them the host. " Le veritable 
Amphitryon est I'Amphitryon oil Ton dine " (Moliere). 

France has produced its Brillat-Savarin, who in 
1825 published his " Physiologie du Gout," than 
which a more elegant and witty compendium on the 
art of dining was never written. 

With Savarin, eating was no mere vulgar 
pleasure ; to him it was a solemn and exquisite duty 
which a man owed to himself, and to a generous 
Nature that had yielded her bounties to him for that 

18 



274 GOOD CHEER 

purpose. In all Savarin's recipes there is a pathetic 
anxiety lest some ingredient should be omitted or 
ill-used. For fish he entertains a profound respect ; 
for game, a manly affection ; for pasties, a delicate 
regard ; but truffles are the beloved darlings of his 
heart. He evinces a profoxmd desire to teach people 
what to eat and how to eat it. In his eyes the cook 
is a true scientist, with an infinite capacity for efiFect- 
ing good and evil. It has been said that Brillat- 
Savarin's " PH^siology of Taste " has converted a 
fair proportion of the reading pubUc into gas- 
tronomers. 

The Rev. Sydney Smith was an epicure whose 
salad-making gained him almost as wide a reputation 
as his wit. He had also a rhymed recipe for roast- 
ing mutton, of which one verse at least is quotable : — 

"Gently stir and blow the fire. 
Lay the mutton down to roast, 

Dress it quickly, I desire. 
In the dripping put a toast. 

That I hunger may remove 

Mutton is the meat I love." 

His recipe for a winter salad, as it was originally 
written in an album at Castle Howard, ran in this 
wise : — 

"Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, 
Unwonted softness to the salad give. 
Of mordant mustard add a single spoon — 
Distrust the condiment which bites too soon-»_ 
But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 
To add a double quantity of salt 
Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 
And once with vinegar produced from town. 
True flavour needs it, and your poet begs 
The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. 
Let onion's atoms lurk within the bowl, 
And scarce suspected, animate the whole. 
And lastly, on the flavoured compoimd toss 
A magic teaspoon of anchovy sauce." 



EPICURES 275 

The late George Augustus Sala, who enjoyed a 
high reputation as a gastronom,'er, has pronounced 
this compound a barbarous mess. He took ex- 
ception to potatoes being put in a green salad ; he 
objected to the mordant mustard as an unheard-of 
ingredient ; while as for the onions — intolerable to 
ladies — he would have substituted the French chapon, 
which is a crust of bread rubbed with g'arlic, and 
tossed to and fro with the herbs while they are being 
mixed, and then removed altogether. * 

The gourmet is sometimes met with the assumed 
air of an amused tole^-ance. But the fact remains 
that the bulk of us at times find ourselves indebted 
to his highly discriminating powers over the niceties 
of flavour, to the cultivated fastidiousness of his taste. 
He has taught us, for instance, that the insipidity 
of boiled fish requires the high relief of a piquant 
sauce, and a further uplifting from the beverage 
which accompanies it — say a glass of delicate- 
flavoured sherry. No fish sauce, in the opinion of 
the hard-mouthed Scottish epicure, was equal to that 
of Timothy Tickler, compounded of mushroom 
ketchup, mustard, cayenne-pepper, and " butter 
amalgamated on your plate, propria manu each man 
according to his own proportions." But the ketchup 
must be " the real thing," says Christopher North — 
made by the Yetholm gipsies. 

There is a vast wealth of culinary lore scattered 
through the Waverley novels, and it has even been 
asserted that Scott had a hand in compiling' the 
recipes for " Meg Dod's Cookery Book." 

That prince of gouarmets recalls with gusto the 
breakfasts which were given him' by his friend 
Dalgleish, a some-time member for Glasgow, who 
had a beautiful estate on the Clyde. " Such break- 
fasts," he exclaims, " we used to have at Kilmar- 
dinnie. Fresh trout, game pies, cold venison, a baron 



276 GOOD CHEEE 

of beef on the sideboard, home-made scones, potato 
scones, white puddings, and Scotch ' baps,' to say 
nothing of Dundee marmalade and Scotch bannocks." 
The celebrated Count d'Orsay formed a gloomy 
opinion of the French restaurants of his day, where, 
he declared, " the culinary art had sadly fallen off." 
While no fare had been too rich for the Bourbons, 
the great Napoleon had contented himself with 
mutton and garlic. Writing from Paris in 1852, 
he says : "At none of these places could you find 
dinners now such as were produced by Ude ; by 
Soyer, formerly with Lord Chesterfield ; by Rotival, 
with Lord Wilton ; or by Perron, with Lord London- 
derry." He complains of the expensiveness and 
vulgarity of the cooking — 

" a sort of tripotage of truffles, cockscombs, and crawfish, mounted 
on the back of a fillet of beef, and not a single entree which a 
connoisseur can eat ; the roast game tourmentes are cold, and their 
feathers are stuck on again before they are served. French gas- 
tronomy [he continues] has emigrated to England." 

A discriminating palate, if not the canons of good 
taste, would demand from most of us, though wei 
be not epicures, the observance of the eternal fitness 
in things gastronomical . 

Thus the appropriate sauce should be infallibly 
coupled to each dish properly served, as in these 
piquant couplets : — 

"Always have lobster sauce with salmon, 
And put mint sauce, your roasted lamb on. 

Roast pork sans apple sauce, past doubt. 
Is 'Hamlet' with the Prince left out. 

Nice oyster sauce gives zest to cod — 
A fish, when fresh, to feast a god ! 

It gives true epicures the vapours 
To see boiled mutton minus capers." 

In eating and drinking there are, as every one 




THE GOURMAND'S DREAM. 

From "Almanach des Gourmands" (1808). 

■{Reproduced from "Tlie Greedy Book" by Frank Scliloesser, by kind 
Permission of the Author and Messrs. Gay & Hancock, Ltd.) 



To lace p. 3?fi, 



EPICURES 277 

knows, likes and dislikes ; children are often 
" faddy " in this respect. Tastes and distastes are 
as diverse as they are inexplicable. Then tliere 
is — as distinct from: epicurism — such a thing as 
fastidiousness in eating. It is given as a sample 
of Beau Brummell's wit — really, it savours more of 
impertinence— that when asked why he had not 
married a certain lady to wihom he had been attentive, 
his elegancy replied, " My dear fellow, the thing was 
impossible. What could I do? I found that she 
actually ate cabbage ! " 

Besides those who live to eat, there are those 
who merely eat to live — the reluctant eaters. They 
stoke. They do not eat, because they do not really 
enjoy their food. As Montaigne has said, " They do 
not eat, but only swallow." 

That highly convenient form of eating, the portable 
meal known as the sandwich, was invented by, and 
named after, the fourth Earl of Sandwich. This 
notorious nobleman, who flourished in the eighteenth 
century, was so devoted to the gaming table that 
he would never rise willingly from it, even to go to 
dinner. So he devised this form of eating which he 
could indulge in while he continued his play. 

There are many kinds of sandwiches, from the 
delicate fish and salad variety to the notorious leather 
and sawdust contrivance of the railway refreshment 
stall. The recipe for a substantial Scottish sand- 
wich is to make it of beef, cut from the round, well 
mustarded, the fat to be only round the edges ; the 
thickness of the whole should be three half-inches, 
the middle layer the thinnest of the three, in a pepper- 
and-salt coat — " and confound the crust," says 
the oracle. The accompanying lesson in the eating 
of such a sandwich recommends the eater to open 
his mouth like a gentleman, " wide without gaping," 
and then perform " a civilised swallow, rather than 
a barbarous bolt." 



XXIII 

GASTROLATORS 

The belly-god— The gluttons- of antiquity — Some brilliant examples 
— The Sicilians a gluttonous people— The gormandising feast 
of Nicholas Wood — An appetite not measurable in larks — But 
possible in geese — Dando, the renowned oyster-eater — The 
feats of his Irish rival — The appetite of an ogre — A depraved 
appetite for putrid meat — The judicial opinion of " nae gor- 
mandeeser" — The glutton and his conscience. 

Those who make their belly their god, Rabelais calls 
Gastrolators. Of these there are divers sorts. 
Beside the epicure and the gourmand there are, a^ the 
other extremity of the pole, the glutton, and the 
gorger. Pandarea, a celebrated eater of antiquity, 
could pass days and nights at the table without 
experiencing the slightest indigestion. His life was 
a continual sacrifice to his god. 

The Emperor Septimus Severus died of eating and 
drinking too much. Valentinianus went off in a 
surfeit. Maximilian devoured in one day forty 
pounds of solid meat, which he washed down with a 
hogshead of wine. Philoxenes wished he had a neck 
like a crane, that the delicious morsels might be long 
in going down. Lucullias, at a costly feast which he 
gave to certain Ambassadors of Asia, among other 
trifles, took to his own portion a " gxiph " boiled, 
and a fat gOose in paste. A " griph " was doubtless 
some particularly choice specimen of a " fearful wild 
fowl "—not improbably a ger -falcon. 

2T8 



GASTROLATORS 279 

Antiquity produced a number of gluttons whose 
marvellous feats place them in the front rank. 
Titortnus had an ox served for his supper, and when 
he rose from' the table not a morsel remained. (The 
classic writers who swallowed this tale are not gener- 
. ally included in our category.) Astydamals of 
Miletus, invited to supper by the Persian AriobarT 
zanes, devoured a feast which had been prepared 
for nine persons. Cambis, King of Lydia, had 
an appetite so fiercely compelling that one night 
the glutton unfortunately -devoured his wife I Thys, 
King of the Paphlagonians, was afflicted with 
a voracity which had a precisely similar annoying 
result. Then there was the Persian Cantibaris, the 
energy of whose appetite caused him to eat so long 
that it required relays of attentive servants to press 
the food into his mouth. Modern efforts after these 
brilliant examples may appear somewhat feeble. 

The Sicilians of old were as notorious for their 
gluttony as were the Spartans for their abstemious- 
ness. 

The Romans, as a nation, were enormous eaters ; 
and the average robust Britisher of the John Bull 
type is by no means an indifferent trencherman, 
though his gourmanderie may be less discriminating 
than that of the ancients. 

A healthy appetite is no doubt a blessing. " Let 
us raise our gratitude to the goodness of God," 
says that old gossip, Thomas Fuller, " especially twhen 
he giveth us appetite enough for our meat, and yet 
meat too much for our appetite." To this worthy's 
period — the seventeenth century — ^belongs one of the 
greatest stufifers whose feats have ever been recorded. 
This was Nicholas Wood, who challenged Taylor 
the Water Poet to eat at one time as much black- 
pudding as would reach across the Thames at any 
place between London and Richmond. "Two loynes 



280 GOOD CHEER 

of mutton and one loyne of veal were but as three 
sprats to him." The following account is extracted 
from " The Wonders of Nature," by iWSlliam Turner, 
M.A., Vicar of Walberton, in Sussex, published in 
1697 (chapter ix., "Wonderful Eaters"): — 

" Nicolas Wood, of Harrison, in the county of Kent, Yeoman, 
did with ease eat a whole Sheep of i6s. Price, and that raw, 
at one meal ; at another time he eat 30 dozen of Pidgeons. At 
Sir William Sidley's he eat as much as would have sufficed 30 Men ; 
at the Lord Wotton's, in Kent, he eat at one meal Fourscore and 
four Rabbets, which number would have sufficed 168 Men, allowing 
to each half a Rabbet ; he suddenly devoured 18 yards of black 
pudding, and when at once he had 60 pound weight of Cherries 
he said they were but wash-meat ; he made an end of a whole Hog 
at once, and after it for fruit swallowed three Pecks of Damsons. 
After he had broken his Fast, having, as he said, eaten one Pottle 
of Milk, one Pottle of Pottage, with Bread, Butter, and Cheese ; he 
eat in my presence, saith Taylor, 6 penny wheaten Loaves, 3 six- 
penny Veal Pies, one pound of sweet Butter, one good Dish of 
Thornback, and a shiver off a Peck Household Loaf of an Inch 
thick, and all this in the space of an hour, the House sdelding no 
more he departed unsatisfied. One John Dale was too hard for 
him ; he laid a Wager, he would fill Wood's belly with wholsom 
Victuals for two Shillings ; another Wagered, that when he had 
eaten Dale's two shillings, he should forthwith eat np a good Sir- 
loin of Beef. Dale bought six Pots of mighty Ale, and twelve new 
penny white Loaves, which he sop'd in the Ale ; the powerful Fume 
whereof Conquered this Conqueror, and laid him in a Sleep, to the 
preservation of the Roast-beef ; and unexpected winning of the 
Wager. He spent all his Estate to provide for his Belly, and though 
a Landed Man, and true Laboiu-er, died Poor about 1630." 

Marshal Villars had a house -porter who was an 
enormous eater. " Franz," said the Marshal one 
day, " tell me, now, how many, loins you could eat." 
" Ah ! my lord, as for loins, not many ; five or 
six at most." " And how many legs of mutton? " 
" Ah ! as for legs of mutton ; not many, seven 
or eight, perhaps." "And fatted pullets?" "Ah! 
as for pullets, my lord, not many ; not more than 



GASTROLATORS 281 

a dozen." " And pigeons? " " Ah 1 as for pigeons, 
not many ; perhaps forty — fifty at most, according 
to the appetite." "And larks?" " Ah 1 as for 
that, pay lord— little larks, for ever, my lord, for 
ever I " 

A humorous Yorkshire tale is that of the eating 
match between two men named Gubbins and 
Muggins, which caused a great deal of interest in 
the neighbourhood : a countryman, leaving the place 
a little before the match was decided, was stopped 
by almost every one on the road, with " Who beats? " 
" How does the match get on? " &c., to which he 
answered, " Why, I doant exactly knaw — they say 
Gubbins '11 get it ; but I thinks Muggins '11 beat 
un yet, for when I left he was oanly two geese and 
a turkey behind him." 

Staffordshire humour on a similar subject is less 
extravagant. As expressed in the Darlaston man's 
opinion of the goose, it is : " The goose is a foolish 
bird ; it's too much for one, and not enough for two." 

Oysters are popularly supposed to aid in their 
own digestion, and it is to be fervently hoped such 
is the case, as oyster-eating has been looked upon 
by some people as a gastronomical accomplishment. 
In 1839 there appeared in Blackwood's Magazine a 
series of papers, " Some Account of Himself, by the 
Irish Oyster -Eater " ; and in the late " fifties " there 
died the renowned Dando, the professional oyster- 
eater, who was honoured by Blackwood with an 
epitaph in blank verse. 

According to the bard, Dando's " gustful " appetite 
was hereditary, for on the mother's side there once 
had been 



■' A Mayor of Colchester who, it was said, 
Married a mermaid and would sometimes eat 
Half his own weight of oysters in the day." 



282 GOOD CHEER 

For eight months of the year Dando would go from 
oyster-house to oyster-house " astonishing the 
natives," though he was not always particular about 
paying for the oysters he consumed, for which un- 
mannerly neglect sometimes he was haled before 
the magistrates. His final resting-place is thus 
described : — 

" In Clerkenwell there is a lowly grave, 
That has become 'a place of pilgrimage,' 
And not the ' cockle-shell ' the pilgrim bears. 
But shell of shapeliest native, to be placed 
In gUstening row around that humble sod. 
By row on row thus circled." 

This hero — or imbecile — was made the subject of 
a tale by Thackeray. As to his Irish rival, the 
following extract from his molluscary record will 
serve to give some idea of his powers : — 

" The day before he finally took to his bed, from which he never 
rose, he devoured for a trifling wager (see ' Bell's Life in London ') 
a couple of hundreds of full-sized Malahides, six score to the 
hundred, in nineteen minutes and thirty-five seconds, with ease, 
getting through his fish, as was remarked by the bystanders, in 
a style equal if not superior to the performances of Dando himself." 

The following amusing anecdote appeared in a 
book published in 1823, with illustrations by the 
inimitable George Cruikshank : — 

" When Charles Gustavus, King of Sweden, was besieging Prj^e, 
a boor of a most extraordinary visage desired admittance to his 
tent ; and being allowed to enter, he offered, by way of amusement, 
to devour a large hog in his presence. The old General Koenigs- 
mark, who stood by the King's side, hinted to his ro3fal master that 
the peasant ought to be burnt as a sorcerer. ' Sir,' said the fellow, 
irritated at the remark, ' if your Majesty will but make that old 
gentleman take off his sword and spurs, I will eat him before I begin 
the pig.' General Koenigsmark, who at the head of a body of Swedes 
performed wonders against the Austrians, could not stand this 



GASTROLATORS 283 

proposal, especially as it was accompanied by a most hideous 
expansion of the jaws and mouth. Without uttering a word, the 
veteran turned pale, and suddenly ran out of the tent; nor did 
he think himself safe till he arrived at his quarters." 

The diary of Thomas Heame, antiquary, under 
date 1722, contains a record of a man who had 
been at Oxford, not long before, who was notorious 
for a morbid appetite which led him to devour large 
quantities of raw, half -putrid meat. The common 
story told regarding him was that he had once 
attempted to imitate the Saviour's fast of forty days, 
but broke down in it, and " was taken with this 
unnatural way of eating." 

The Shepherd of " Noctes Ambrosianse " was " nae 
glutton — ^nae gormandeeser — but a man o' a gude — 
a great appetite," who could eat " hodge-podge," 
or boiling broth, with the thermometer at eighty. 
Yet he was of opinion that though cheese might 
be capital in the forenoon, or in the afternoon, when 
one Tiad " had nae ither denner,^' only gluttonous 
epicures would have recourse to it after they had 
" been stuflSn' themselves " with a dinner of several 
courses . 

Indeed, he was quite sure that " nae healthy man 
has ony use for mair than half a dozen dishes at 
dinner — soup, fish, flesh, tairts, and cheese " ; to 
which mild estimate Tickler takes exception, object- 
ing to a stomach being distended with soup, to the 
pernicious " pasticcios of the pastry-cook," to the 
savoury game being succeeded by sweets and a 
quantity of cheese, and the whole crowned with a 
variety of flatulent fruits and those indigestible knick- 
knacks which are often included under the name of 
" dessert." He likens the stomach which is thus made 
to receive, not one full meal, but a succession of 
meals, rapidly following each other, to the witches' 
cauldron in " Macbeth," the contents of which, as 



284 GOOD CHEER 

we all know, were as miscellaneous and promiscuous 
as the teeming brain of a Shakespeare could make 
them. 

In the old style of electioneering nothing was ever 
found so efficacious in winning support as the candi- 
date's indulgence of the voters in unlimited eating 
and drinking. This is illustrated by Hogarth in his 
picture " The Election Entertainment," which forms 
the frontispiece of this book. The scene is the 
interior of a country inn, and in the foreground a boy 
is seen making punch in nothing less than a mash- 
tub. Though the dishes have been removed from the 
table, the alderman and the parson are seen still 
stuffing. TJie former, gofged with oysters, is 
apparently dying with one on his fork, while the 
barber-surgeon is vainly attempting to recover him 
by bleeding. The voracious divine is cramming him- 
self with the remains of a haunch of venison, which 
for the indulgence of his palate he is heating in 
a chafing-dish of coals, though almost fainting with 
the task. Other details will discover the artist's 
sardonic humour in satirising man's gross indulgence 
of the gluttonous propensity. 

A dialogue between a Glutton and his conscience 
was written in the seventeenth century in an ingenious 
form of echo ; it appeared in a Cambridge pamphlet 
of 1634, entitled " Hygiasticon : or the Right Course 
of Preserving Life and Health into Extreme Old 
Age " :- 

"Gl. My belly do I deifie. 
Echo. Fie. 

Gl. Who curbs his appetite's a fool. 
Echo. Ah fool ! 

Gl. I do not like this abstinence. 
Echo. Hence. 

Gl. My joy's a feast, my wish is wine. 
Echo. Swine. 

Gl. We epicures are happie truly. 
Echo. You lie. 



GASTROLATORS 285 

Gl. Who's that which giveth me the lie 
Echo. I. 

Gl. What ? Echo, thou that mock'st a voice ? 
Echo. A voice. 

Gl. May I not, Echo, eat my fill ? 
Echo. 111. 

Gl. Wiirt hurt me if I drink too much ? 
Echo. Much. 

Gl, Thou mock'st me, Nymph ; I'll not believe it. 
Echo. BeUeve't. 

Gl. Dost thou condemn then what I do? 
Echo. I do. 

Gl. I grant it doth exhaust the purse. 
Echo. Worse. 

Gl. Is't this which dulls the sharpest wit? 
Echo, Best wit. 

Gl. Is't this which brings infirmities? 
Echo. It is. 

Gl. Whither will't bring my soul ? canst tell ? 
Echo. T' hell. 

Gl. Dost thou no gluttons virtuous know ? 
Echo. No. 

Gl. Wouldst have me temperate till I die ? 
Echo. I. 

Gl. Shall I therein find ease and pleasure ? 
Echo. Yea sure. 

Gl. But is't a thing which profit brings ? 
Echo. It brings. 

Gl. To minde or bodie, or to both ? 
Echo. To both. 

Gl. Will it my life on earth prolong ? 
Echo. O long ! 

Gl. Will it make me vigorsus until death ? 
Echo. Till death. 

Gl. Wiirt bring me to eternall blisse ? 
Echo. Yes. 

Gl. Then, sweetest Temperance, I'll love thee 
Echo. I love thee. 

Gl. Then, swinish Gluttonie, I'll leave thee. 
Echo. I'll leave thee. 
Gl. I'll be a belly-god no more. 
Echo, No more. 

Gl. If all be true which thou dost tell. 
They who fare sparingly fare well. 
Echo. Farewell." 



XXIV 

"GOOD FOR FOOD" 

Human teeth — Their adaptabihty — ^The chewing propensity — Com- 
fits — Cachous — Geophagy — Lithophagy — The " fire-eater " — 
Flesh food — No part of the animal excluded — Not even blood 
— Or entrails — Nor do wild animals escape — Animal products 
— Eggs various — Cheese, its ancient and honourable history — 
The harvest of the sea — Statute of Herrings — Turtle — Insectiv- 
orous man. 

Man alone seems provided with a case of instru- 
ments which can be adapted to the mastication of 
every kind of food — he has teeth to cut, to pierce and 
tear, to champ and grind — and therefore nothing 
that can possibly be regarded as edible comes amiss 
to him. This being so, the subject of man's dietary 
is ,too vast to have more than the bare fringe of 
it touched upon here. 

The source of man's animal food covers the widest 
range possible. It is, in fact, the whole earth, with 
the heavens above, and the waters under the earth. 
Considerations of space would forbid even a bare 
list of the animal products which man has here, 
or elsewhere, considered " good for food," even if 
lists were not always wearisome and uninteresting 
reading. Some of the items, however, which stand 
out, are really worth naming. 

Massinger's estimate of Providence is very true :— 







'_\ 




;; 




^ 


CO 




^ 


a 






a 




?s 


S 




C5 


Q 




■ 


" 




2 




g 


1 


; 




■ts 




rt 






Ol 


e 










_« 































ffl 


•? 




>, 


« 




.0 


5 




<3 


■^ 







a 







■2 




3 


-i 




-a 






OJ 


c 




t 


-Oh 























>. 


-5 
















eu 


^ 










J 


^ 




g 


a 













■ii 










■*■ 


to 










-5 








c 




ra 


ij 




.0 


^ 




10c 

c 


'^ 




rt 


d 




Q 


t 


S 






en 




e^ 


tH 






r^ 




■a 


M 




fi 


S 







"GOOD FOR FOOD" 287 

"There's no want of meat, Sir, 
Portly and curious viands are prepared 
To please all kinds of appetite." 

To say that man had an insatiable maw would 
be libellous and untrue ; but his jaws certainly would 
seem to be incapable of fatigue, as witness the exten- 
sive consumption of betel-nut in the East, and of 
chewing-gum in the West. Coming nearer home, that 
old-time custom of eating comfits may be recalled. 
In France the carrying of comfit-boxes had developed 
into a fashion by the close of the sixteenth century. 
The courtiers of Henry III. did not seem able to 
exist without the abundant use of comfits, and so 
everybody carried a box of them, which were used 
on all occasions, grave and gay. When the Duke 
of Guise was shot at Blois he was found with his 
comfit -box still in his hand. 

For the chewing of cachous perhaps an entirely 
different reason might be assigned ; but it has been 
claimed that this form of mouth exercise, which is 
often seen in a similar habit of the countryman who 
chews a straw, is instinctive — that the exercise of 
the organs of mastication, and the turning' about of 
the tongue, set the salivary glands at work, and 
that the downward flow of alkaline saliva is the 
natural corrective of an excess of acid in the 
stomach — that it is, in fact. Nature's preventive 
against dyspepsia. 

It was Humboldt who first made us acquainted 
with the geophagists. From his account of the 
Ottomaques of the Orinoco we learn that they " feed 
on a fat, unctuous earth, or species of pipeclay, tinged 
with a little oxide of iron. They collect this clay 
very carefully, distinguishing it by the taste ; they 
knead it into balfe of four or five inches in diameter, 
which they bake slightly before a slow fire. Whole 
stacks of such provisions are seen piled up in 



288 GOOD CHEER 

their huts. These balls are soaked in w'ater when, 
about to be used, and each individual eats about a 
pound of the material a day." The only addition 
they make to this unnatural fare consists of small 
fish, lizards, and fern -roots. Humboldt expresses 
the opinion that their organs of digestion probably 
have the power of extracting from this clay something 
convertible into animal substance. 

A tribe of Indians on the Mackenzie River above 
Bear Lake are known to eat a kind of unctuous 
mud ; and Russell, in the " Natural History of 
Aleppo," describes a kind of fullers' earth there, 
called Byloon, which is carried into the city on the 
backs pf asses, and regularly sold in the streets. 
This earth is mixed with dried rose-leaves and made 
up into balls for eating, its use being confined to 
pregnant women and sickly girls. 

A yellowish earth is eaten by the natives of New 
Guinea ; a species of oolite is used as a foodstuff 
by the inhabitants of New Caledonia ; in several 
parts of Peru a calcareous earth is reduced to fine 
powder and mixed with cocoa ; Ampo^s the name 
of little balls of reddish clay which are bought in 
the markets of Java, and eaten by the fair Javanese 
who wish to become thin and graceful ; and even 
in some parts of Europe geophagy is not un- 
known. The Swedes have a " mountain meal," or 
bergmehl, as they call it, which they sometimes 
mix with their flour ; and the workmen in the free- 
stone quarries of Kiffhausen were wont to spread 
on their bread, instead of butter, a very fine clay 
called " stein -butter." 

It is solemnly recorded by Hone, in his " Table 
Book," that there was once a stone-eater — a man 
who was bom by the side of a rocky cave in the 
Peak, Derbyshire, and whose mother dreamed her 
offspring would be an ostrich. To read this ogre's 



"GOOD FOR FOOD" 289 

autobiography Is more than a dream— it is a night- 
mare. iWe are asked to believe this lithop'hagous 
being could swallow flint easier than he could bread, 
and preferred pebbles to cake, though he sometimes 
took " Norfolk dumplins " by way of a change. 
Though this may be to a large extent a farrago 
of nonsense, it is quite probable that the Orinoco 
Indians indulged in the habit of eating clay more for 
the pleasure of a distended stomach than for any 
real nourishment to be obtained from' such diet. 

The "fire-eater" is, of course, a trickster; he 
was always to be seen in the old country fairs, 
and to this day makes his occasional appearance 
as a " turn " on the music-hall stage. Only one 
exploit of this kind need be recalled here. 

At .White Conduit House, Islington, then a popular 
place of resort, on June 7, 1826, an entertainment 
was given by one Monsieur Chalbert, who, after a 
luncheon of phosphorus, arsenic, oxalic acid, boiling 
oil, and molten lead, walked into a hot oven, pre- 
ceded by a leg of lamb and a rumpsteak. On 
the last two, V when properly baked, the spectators 
dined .with him. 

Of this " ordinary most extraordinary " the in- 
credulous critics of the time said with some wit, 
if not with some truth, that if the salamander was 
not *' done brown," his gulls were. 

Prescott the historian ate soap under the theory 
that men should be clean inside as well as out I 

It is curious to notice the various parts of animals 
that are selected as choice morsels by different 
persons, classes, or peoples, as sheep's head, pig's 
head, calf's hea;d and brains, ox tongue, reindeer 
tongue, walrus tongue, and crane's tongue. In 
China fowls' and ducks' tongues are esteemed an 
exquisite dainty. The pettitoes of the sucking 
pig, sheep's trotters, cow heel, bear's paw, ox tail, 

19 



290 GOOD CHEER 

lamb's tail, kangaroo tail are all dainties some- 
where, or with some people. Among the entrails 
of animals regarded as choice are lamb's fry, pig's 
fry, tripe, chitterlings, the cleaned gut for sausages, 
&c. The Hungarian salami is a pork sausage as 
thick as a. man's arm. tWe indulge even in blood 
as black -pudding ; at the dinner of a Chinese 
mandarin one may be served with blood-cakes. 
Dainties perhaps not so commonly known include 
the moufle, or loose covering of the nose of the 
great moose deer, the hump of the buffalo, and the 
feet and trunk of the elephant ; while the muscle 
of the buffalo and the wild hog, " jerked " or dried 
in the sun and then termed " dendeng," is a delicacy 
which the Chinese import at high prices from Siam 
and the eastern islands. 

The Emperor Napoleon once partook of an 
African dinner in which figured tortoise broth (as 
the equivalent, no doubt, of turtle soup), porcupine, 
gazelle, loin of wild boar, antelope, cutlets, roast 
ostrich with pomegranate jelly, and other dishes of 
distinctly " local colouring." 

"A very fantastical banquet. 
Just so many strange dishes." 

Monkeys are eaten in Ceylon, bats in certain 
islands of the Indian Ocean, the prairie wolf by 
the Indians of North America, the alligator in 
Brazil, the puma in Central America, the sloth in 
South America, the reindeer in Sweden, the horse 
in Germany and other continental countries, the dog 
in China ; indeed, it is difficult to say what creature 
escapes the omnivorous appetite of man. A bill of 
fare in that cosmopolitan city San Francisco will 
include such items as these : — 

Grimalkin steaks 25 cents 

Bow-wow soup 12 „ 

Stews ratified 6 „ 



"GOOD FOR FOOD" 291 

Not only animal flesh but animal products enter 
very largely into man's bill of fare. Eglgs 
of different animals are generally regarded as 
choice articles of food, not only those of ordinary 
domestic fowl but eggs of sea-fowl and plovers, of 
the ostrich, and even of tortoises and insects, not 
to mention the roes of fishes. With the Chinese 
unhatched ducks and chicken are a favourite dish, 
and rotten eggs are by no means rejected. 

It has been noted as a curious fact by Professor A. 
Henry that the Chinese, Japanese, and Koreans, who 
number one-third of the human race, abstain from the 
use of milk, cheese, and butter, to which abstention, he 
says, it is probable they owe the absence of zymotic 
disease among them. He notices also that they are 
a grave people, who never unbend in laughter, 
whereas the Thibetans, who indulge largely in milk, 
cheese, and butter, are a merry, mirth-loving people. 

Cheese, as a food, is as wholesome as its use is 
widespread ; as an item in a coursed dinner there 
is nothing known to the world of gastronomy which 
can so quickly rectify the palate, between the sweets 
and the dessert, like the tang of a true cheese. 

" Bread-and -cheese " is th^> typical all-sufificing 
fare of those content and rbbust enough to live 
without the luxuries of life ; from the days of our 
earliest English comedy it appears to have been 
so considered, for it is in " Gammer Gurton's 
Needle," written in 1565, we find it named, in con- 
junction with that typical English dainty, " apple- 
pie," in the well-known verse : — 

" If all the world were apple-pie, 
And all the seas were ink, 
And all the trees were bread-and-cheese, 
My stars I what should we drink ? " 

To the English palate there is perhaps no cheese 



292 GOOD CHEER 

more acceptable thaji that produced on the rich 
pastures of the Vale Royal of England, where it 
was once the custom to mould it into the form of 
a cat, whence the term " Cheshire Cat." But there 
are probably varieties of cheese sufficient to meet 
every variety of taste. The aristocratic Stilton is 
made with all the cream in the milk ; Cheddar and 
Double Gloucester with new milk from which a part 
of the cream has been removed. Single Gloucester 
is made from skim-milk, like the Gouda cheese, with 
delicate transparent shavings of which the Dutch 
make such palatable sandwiches. The rich cheese 
of Gorgonzola is made from ewe's milk, at the village 
of that name, near Milan ; and the spongy, strong- 
flavoured Gruyfere is the product of goat's milk from 
the pastures of the high Alps. 

But the peculiar qualities and particular virtues 
of all the famous makes are best seen in the French 
" Ode to Cheese " of M. Thomas Braun, so admirably 
Englished by Mr. J. Bithell :— 



"God of the country, bless to-day Thy cheese, 
For which we give Thee thanks on bended knees. 
Let them be fat or light, with onions blent. 
Shallots, brine, pepper, honey ; whether scent 
Of sheep or fields is in them, in the yard 
Let them, good Lord, at dawn be beaten hard ? 
And let their edges take on silvery shades 
Under the most red hands of dairymaids ; 
And, round and greenish, let them go to town 
Weighing the shepherd's folding mantle down ; 
Whether from Parma or from Jura heights. 
Kneaded by august hands of Carmelites, 
Stamped with the mitre of a proud abbess. 
Flowered with the perfumes of the grass of Bresse, 
From hollow Holland, from the Vosges, from Brie, 
From Roquefort, Gorgonzola, Italy I 
Bless them, good Lord ! Bless Stilton's royal fare. 
Red Cheshire, and the tearful, cream Gruyere ! 



"GOOD FOR FOOD" 293 

Bless Kantercaas, and bless the Mayence round, 
Where aniseed and other grains are found ; 
Bless Edam, Pottekees, and Gouda then, 
And those that we salute with 'Sir,' like men.'' 

No manufactured foodstuff has a more ancient, 
honourable, and varied history than cheese. 

An abundance of fish is yielded by the harvest 
of the sea. This abundance has been well described 
by Milton :— 

" Each creek and bay 
With fry innumerable swarms, and shoals 
Of fish, that with their fins and shining scales 
Glide under the green waves." 

The Statute of Herrings passed in the reign of 
Ed'ward III. shows the great request in which this 
useful article of food was then held. Whales and 
great sturgeons taken in the sea were once reserved 
for royalty. In the time of Edward I. a tariff of 
fish prices was fixed at these limits : Best soles, 3d. 
per dozen ; best mackerel (in Lent), id. each ; best 
pickled herrings, 20 for id. ; fresh oysters, 2d. per 
gallon ; eels, 2d. for a quarter of a hundred. 

Turtle, the great West Indian luxury, generally 
arrives about the latter end of May or the beginning 
of June, though from the uncertainties of a sea voyage 
in the old days no exact period for its first appear- 
ance could be fixed. In 18 14 it was so unusually 
late that at the magnificent banquet g'iven in Guild- 
hall to the Emperor of Russia and the King of 
Prussia on June i8th there was positively no turtle 
to Ibe had. 

The weight of a turtle varies from 30 to 500 
or 600 pounds, and the price from 2s. 6d. to 5s. 
per lb. The cooking is generally performed by a 
professed " artist," whose fee is from one to two 
guineas. Epicures of note have been known to 



294 GOOD CHEER 

prefer it cut into steaks and broiled, to be eaten 
with melted butter, cayenne pepper, and the juice 
of a Seville orange ; they say that the flesh thus 
simply dressed retains more of its true flavour than 
when made into callipash and callipee. 

Calf's head, which is susceptible of as many 
culinary operations as the head of an ingenious cook 
can devise, forms the base of a soup called " mock- 
turtle," and, in cases of emergency, may serve as 
an augmentative ingredient to real turtle soup. 

Though English prejudice has drawn the line at 
insects as an article oif diet, the poet Herrick has 
alluded to this class of food as the choicest cates 
for fairy elves. In his " Hesperides " (1658) he 
thus describes the feast given by Oberon : — 

"Gladding his palate with some store 
Of emmets' eggs ; what could he more ? 
But beards of mice, a newt's stewed thigh, 
A bloated earwig, and a fly." 

The Digger Indians in the summer regale them- 
selves with roast grasshoppers, ants are eaten by 
various uncivilised peoples, while the Bushmen revel 
in fat caterpillars. The natives of the Navigator 
Islands eat the sea-slug, which they call palolo, and 
on the Chilian coast the cuttle-fish forms an article 
of diet. 



XXV 

NATIONAL FOODS AND NATIONAL PREJUDICES 

Characteristic foods — Environment and diet — Oil and flesh in high 
latitudes — Raw, putrefying and " living flesh " — Wriggling 
vyorms — Strange prejudices and strange tastes — Omnivorous 
Chinese — Edible frogs — Spanish oUa — Hellenic diet — Russian 
dishes — Italian farinaia — Origin of the name "Macaroni" — 
Kuscoussoo — Irish cookery — English meat-eating — The "Welsh 
Rabbit "—Scottish "foul feeding" — Doric dishes— Oatmeal — 
Singed sheep's head — Hotch-potch — Haggis — Cock-a-leekie — 
Rumblethumps — Parritch — Sowens — American " pork and 
beans." 

Popular opinion holds firmly to the idea of 
" national dishes," or at least insists upon associating 
certain viands with certain nationalities. It is thus 
we speak of English roast beef, Scotch haggis, Irish 
stew, and (if we dare venture to name it) Welsh 
" rabbit." Similar associations of ideas occur in 
the terms French ragout, Spanish olla, Italian 
macaroni, Russian caviare, German sausage, and so 
on ; the place and the product naturally coming 
together in one's mind when the thoughts are directed 
to any part of the world's commissariat arrange- 
ments. To France belong her stews, souffles, and 
vegetable entremets ; to Italy what are called 
farinaia ; whilst English cookery revels in its roasts. 
The inhabitants of high altitudes require an 
immense amotmt of animal food ; vegetable food 
is not only unsuitable, but is pra;ctically unobtain- 

295 



296 GOOD CHEER 

able in regions that are iceboimd for the greater 
part of the year. In this case, at least, Byron's 
comparison to the " preying " instinct is unfair : — 

" But man is a carnivorous production 

And must have meals — at least once a day ; 
He cannot live, like woodcocks, upon suction, 
But, like the shark and tiger, must have prey." 

Sir John Ross estimated that an Esquimaux eats 
twenty pounds weight of flesh food in a day. 

In such latitudes it may be convenient and even 
necessary for the inhabitants to eat their food without 
preparation, but in all temperate and warm climates 
the art of cookery prevails to a greater or less 
extent. 

One difference between man and the brute crea- 
tion is this — that whereas the various species of 
animal are, for the most part, restricted to particular 
regions or localities, man is spread over every portion 
of the earth's surface. 

The Greenlanders live exclusively on animal sub- 
stances. They may sometimes, indeed, find a few 
berries, and they sometimes make a meal of the 
seaweed they pick up on the shore ; but these are 
merely the exceptions which prove the rule. 

The Laplanders live principally upon dried fish 
and the flesh of the reindeer and the bear. They 
make a kind of bread of the powdered bones of 
fishes mixed with the tender bark of the pine or 
birch tree. Their usual drink is whale-oil, or water 
in which juniper berries have been infused. 

The wandering Calmuc Tartars eat the flesh of 
horses, wild asses, and other animals, either raw ot 
with a slight degree of preparation, which it very 
often undergoes by putrefying under their saddles. 
Their common drink is mare's milk, fermented with 
the flour of millet. The flesh of the ass is not un- 



NATIONAL FOODS AND PREJUDICES 297 

palatable to the Persians, and Galen compared it to 
that of the stag. 

The belle of the Sandwich Islands will swallow 
ha.lf a dozen raw mackerel for breakfast, and by 
a great play of facial expression exhibit her intense 
satisfaction ; the Arabs often eat sheep's kidney or 
liver raw, seasoned only with a liberal sprinkling 
of salt ; the marnow of a newly-slain animal, warm 
with the natural heat of the living creature, is con- 
sidered by 'Greenlanders and Laplanders the greatest 
of all dainties — and they split the bones with stone 
hatchets precisely as did primeval man. 

Travellers in Abyssinia have reported a practice 
once prevalent there of eating meat cut from a living 
cow. Bruce says he saw some natives near Axum 
cut thick steaks from the buttock of a beast, and 
then drawing the skin, which had been left entire, 
over the wound, fasten it down with skewers or pins. 
The treatment was completed by preparing a cata- 
plasm of clay, with which they covered the suture. 
After regaling themselves on the flesh, raw and yet 
quivering with life, " they forced the animal to rise, 
and drove it on, gently as before." 

The aborigines of Australia are entirely carni- 
vorous, varying a flesh diet of kangaroo, opossum, 
bandacoot, and rat with wild honey and all sorts 
of insects. A traveller who spent several years 
among the " black fellows " relates how they probe 
into the bark of trees with a tomahawk and ex- 
tracting grubs and insects — " fat, wriggling things " 
— cram them into their mouths and devour them 
with very evident relish. 

The inhabitants of the Ladrone Islands offer a 
fair contrast ; they subsist solely on roots, fruits, 
and fish, and are invariably healthy and muscular, 
living to an extreme old age. 
' After environment (which determines a nation's I 



298 GOOD CHEER 

I indigenous food, as it does also the ability to com- 
mand extraneous foodstuffs) the two greatest factors 
in determining diet are custom and prejudice. It 
is custom which induces us ,to accept most of the 
foods we eat ; it is prejudice which causes us to 
reject many others w'hich, in themselves, are really 
toothsome and wholesome, if we could but bring 
our minds to venture upon them. 

Although the Turks are by no means squeamish 
in their diet, they will not eat oysters. In Chinese 
cities rats sell at two shillings a dozen, and in the 
butchers' shops the hind-quarters of the dog hang 
side by side with those of the sheep, and command 
a higher price per pound. The edible birds' nests 
of the same omnivorous people fetch double their 
weight in silver, the finest varieties, indeed, com- 
manding six sovereigns the pound. These nests 
consist of a gelatinous substance secreted by the 
sea-swallow of the Malay Peninsula, and the China- 
man makes excellent soup of them, as he also does 
with the sea-slug of Australia. 

Captain Laplace has described one of the feasts 
he attended in China. The first course was laid 
out in a great number of saucers, and consisted of 
various relishes in a cold state, among them being 
salted eafth-worms, prepared and dried, but so cut 
up and disguised that he, fortunately, did not know 
at the time what he was eating ; then followed 
smoked fish and ham, cut small, and swimming in 
soup. These dishes were succeeded by pigeons' eggs, 
cooked in gravy, ducks and fowls, cut very small and 
immersed in a dark -coloured sauce, and little balls 
made of sharks' fins, pounded shrimps, and maggots 
of an immense size. The Captain says that his 
greatest difficulty was to seize his prey floating in the 
various bowls of gravy — in his unaccustomed hands 
the chop-sticks were always eluded by the delicate 



NATIONAL FOODS AND PREJUDICES 299 

morsels he coveted. This was the more unfortimate, 
he continues, as a Chinese host is not satisfied that 
his guests have done justice to his fare until they 
begin to emit those sonorous eructations which 
usually proceed from an overloaded stomach. 

The West Indian negroes refuse to touch stewed 
rabbit, but eat palm-worms fried in fat, and baked 
snakes. Parrots, though tough, are eaten in Mexico. 
The natives of the Antilles eat alligators' eggs, and 
lizards' eggs are commonly devoured in the Pacific 
Islands. Up to the beginning of the eighteenth 
century turtle, now the luxury of the rich, served 
as the common food of the poorest inhabitants of 
Jamaica. In Brazil ants are consumed, served with 
a resinous sauce ; in Siam the same insects are 
eaten curried. The Cingalese, after robbing the bee 
of its honey, eat it ; and the Chinese, always models 
of (thrift, after winding the silk from the cocoon, 
eat the chrysalis of the silkworm. 

As every one knows, the esculent or edible frog 
is considered quite a luxury in France, Germany, 
and Italy. Those brought to the markets of Paris 
are caught in the stagnant waters round Mont- 
morency, in the Bois de Vincennes, the Bois de 
Boulogne, and elsewhere. The people who collect 
them separate the hind-quarters and legs from the 
body, carefully skin them, arrange them on skewers, 
as larks are in this country, and so bring them to 
market. The dealers sometimes prepare toads in 
the same way, and as it requires an expert eye to 
discern the diflerencte, the Parisians are sometimes, 
literally, if unconsciously, " toad-eaters." 

England is one of the few countries where these 
delicacies are not appreciated. Frogs are gladly 
eaten in the United States and Canada, as well as 
all over the Continent. According to a recent 
American consular report, Irogs to the value of 



300 GOOD CHEER 

£40,000 were sold in Montreal in 1909, at the 
average price of is. 8d. a pound. One hotel alone 
in Toronto is said to sell about 1,500 lb. of frogs' 
legs every year. 

Sir Kenelm Digby, whose cookery-book is referred 
to elsewhere, having resided in Spain some time, is 
able to give a recipe for the Spanish olla-podrida, 
as it was prepared in the seventeenth century. ■ The 
piedium for a good plain " Spanish oglia " is, of 
course, " a great pot " of water which must be kept 
gently boiling for five or six hours, and the materials 
consist of a rump of beef, a loin of mutton, a piece 
of veal, two chickens, or else three pigeons, a piece 
of " enter larded bacon," and three or foui: onions. 
Each ingredient, beginning with the beef, and ending 
with the onions, must be thrown into the pot at 
such a time as will ensure the whole being com- 
pletely cooked at the same moment. About half an 
hour before the oglia is done a " porrender full " 
of the broth should be taken out, flavoured with 
pepper, salt, five or six cloves, and a nutmeg, and 
then poured back again. 

The cookery of Spain is often unjustly disparaged, 
and this may be not a little owing to the number 
of errors which occur in the English translations 
of " Don Quixote," and which the late George 
Augustus Sala was at some pains to point out and 
correct. Does not the troubled Englishman exclaim 
over " the piggy food of the Spaniard "? 

Cervantes says that the Knight of the Rueful 
Countenance fed one day in the week upon " olla," 
which is a great deal more than soup, being com- 
posed of different sorts of meats and vegetables 
stewed together, taking its name from the round 
earthen pot in which the mess is prepared. The 
English translator says that the Don's olla contained 
more mutton than beef, but Cervantes himself says 



NATIONAL FOODS AND PEEJUDICES 301 

just the opposite, namely, that there was more beef 
than mutton. Then the translator goes on to say 
that the " fragments " of the soup were served up 
" cold on most nights " ; an error, says Sala, in the 
translation of the Spanish word saLpicon, which 
answers to our word salmagundi, which denotes a 
mixture of chopped meat, egg^, anchovies, and red 
pickled cabbage. 

The Hellenes keep a kitchen which is neither 
copious nor very refined. The staple food of the 
modern Qreek^ consists of bread, which is dark in 
colour and coarse in texture, grapes, and black olives. 
They eat a milky kind of cheese {turi) and are 
addicted to sousing all their dishes with olive oil. 
A common repast of a Greek peasant is a hunch of 
bread, scored with the knife into a criss-cross pattern, 
seasoned with pepper and salt, and drenched in oil. 
During the long and severe fasts of the Greek Church 
large quantities of dried fish are consumed. Eggs 
are in large demand, the favourite vegetables are 
onions and cabbages, while oil and garlic never seem 
to come amiss. In Greek sweet dishes, and even in 
some of the savoury ones, honey is commonly used. 

The fare of the Russian peasantry is sufficiently 
coarse, but it is an error to suppose it mainly consists 
of rye bread, pickled cucumbers, caviare, and train 
oil. Certain of the national dishes of Russia are 
regularly served in their best hotels . A good Russian 
dinner is preceded by a variety of " snacks " placed 
on a tray, either on the sideboard of the dining-room 
or on a table in the drawing-room where the guests 
are received. These relishes may include fresh 
caviare, raw herrings, smoked salmon, sun-dried 
sturgeon, raw smoked goose, radishes, cheese, sliced 
sausages, cod-sounds, raw ham, bread, and butter. 
With these appear tiny liqueur glasses of kiimmel, 
kirsch-wasser, maraschino, anisette, and vodka or 



302 GOOD CHEER 

corn brandy. Sometimes a cold soup is served, made 
of a stock of half -fermented rye or barley-beer, with 
pieces of herring, cucumber, meat, and ice floating 
in it. The Russians are fond of smoked fish, cut 
into slices and served with a sauce of mustard, olive 
oil, and vinegar. They are also given to cold-boiled 
sucking-pig ; the animal is boiled in white wine, 
boned after it has cooled, and then encrusted in a 
mould of powdered ice and aspic jelly, and served 
with poached white of egg, gherkins, beetroot, and 
other gamishings. 

Quass, the fermented cabbage-water of the 
Russians, is described as tasting like stale fish and 
soapsuds, yet it has millions of votaries. In the 
colder regions of the country tallow-candles are not 
despised as an article of diet. 

Of Italian dishes none is better known than 
macaroni. It first attracted the notice of English 
travellers in the eighteenth century, and the young 
bloods of that day, on their return from the grand 
tour, borrowed its name for their most fashionable 
club. This set of travelled fops, as vicious as they 
were exclusive, called themselves the Macaronis, and 
introduced this dish at Almack's subscription table. 

According to Mr. Tom Murrey, a writer on 
culinary matters, the word " Macaroni " had a most 
interesting origin. He says : — 

"A wealthy Palermitan noble owned a cook with an inventive 
genius. One day, in a rapture of culinary composition, this artist 
cook devised the farinaceous tubes which all love so well, and the 
succulent accessories of rich white sauce with grated parmesan. 

" Having filled a large china bowl with this delicious compound, 
he set it before his lord — a gourmet of the first water — and stood by, 
in deferential attitude, to watch the effect of his experiment. 

" The first mouthful elicited the ejaculation 'Cari !' idiomatically 
equivalent to 'Excellent' in English. After swallowing a second 
modicum he exclaimed, ' Ma cari I ' or ' Excellent, indeed.' 

" Presently, as the flavour of the toothsome dish grew upon him, 



NATIONAL FOODS AND PREJUDICES 303 

his enthusiasm increased, and he cried out, in a voice tremulous with 
joyful emotion, ' Ma, caroni ! Ma, caroni ! ' or ' Indeed most 
supremely, sublimely, and superlatively excellent ! ' 

"And, in paying this enthusiastic tribute to the merits of his 
cook's discovery, he unwittingly bestowed a name upon that ad- 
mirable preparation that has stuck to it ever since." 

The Italians attained an excellence in cookery 
before it was reached by any of their neighbours ; 
the supremacy of moderp French cookery owes its 
foundations to the Italian methods introduced at the 
French Court by the princesses of the family of 
Do Medicis. 

A dish eaten all over Northern Africa, from the 
Red Sea to the Atlantic, is Kuscoussoo.; and it is 
prepared to-day as it was in the primitive centuries 
of long ago. It consists of wheaten flour, dusted 
on to drops of water, and mixed lightly and quickly 
by the hands of a woman, the mass of moistened 
particles growing gradually larger, the art of the 
operator being to cause it to g'ranulate, and to pre- 
vent it from clotting. Each grain is only the size of 
a pinhead, and when enough has been formted, it is 
put into a conical basket of palmetto leaves, which 
is placed over an earthen pot containing boiling 
water, and cooked by the steam. The poor eat it 
alone, the wealthier class with meat. In the Bopk 
of Judges we read that Gideon used a pot and basket 
in his simple cookery. 

Of course the farther we go back in time, and the 
farther afield we wander from home, the stranger the 
dishes we are likely to find. In the twelfth century 
the Norwegian (according to William of Malmes- 
bury) ate raw fish, and to this day cured fish enter 
largely into his dietary. The modern Irishman eats 
the familiar potato, and is justified of his simple 
choice because he knows how to cook it. And let 
us not forget hospitable Ireland's greatest culinary 
triumph, odorous and appetising Irish stew. 



/ 



304 GOOD CHEER 

No people are such g^orgers of meat as the English, 
and no people know so little of the art of cooking 
vegetables, pulse, and roots. As seen elsewhere 
(p. 226), the ancients were adepts La the trans- 
mutation of vegetables into the semblance of animal 
food. But then, in those spacious times, the patrons 
of the gastric art were as great enthusiasts as its 
professors . 

In this country the food of the peasant might easily 
be cheaper and better, while the provision of the 
artisan is almost always extravagant and bad. The 
one idea of the working classes in relation to improve- 
ment in diet, and which they invariably realise when 
wages are high, is an abundant supply of butcher's 
meat. 

Among the average well-to-do middle class, who 
exhibit great indifference to cookery, there is a dreary 
monotony of diet ; when questioned about it the 
reply invariably is, ".We live very plainly; always 
roast and boiled." 

The typical English housewife, devoid of culinary 
inventiveness, is always confident in the knowledge 
that at any moment she can fall back on butcher's 
meat, and that the plain joint, or the chops, or the 
steaks, will almost cook themselves. Certain it is 
that no country can produce primer meat ; nowhere 
else can be seen finer steaks — slabs of juicy lean with 
a half -fringe of rich yellow fat ; or finer chops — cut 
thick in the lean portion and tapered off with curly 
tails of fat. Or if this fat is objectionable to the 
individual taste, there is the famous " Bamsley chop," 
with its double thickness of the gravy-laden lean, 
and the flaps of fat carefully trimmed away from 
each end. 

Is iWelsh Rarebit, commonly called Welsh Rabbit, 
the national dish of Wales? " Toasted cheese hath 
no master," saith the proverb, and this homely dish 



NATIONAL FOODS AND PREJUDICES 305 

is simply made of toasted bread, covered with toasted 
cheese, smeared with mustard and pepper. 

An amusing anecdote is that which relates how a 
boastful Welshman was bragging that when his father 
once entertained twelve guests he had twelve cooks 
to provide for them. " Ah I " was the rejoinder, " I 
suppose every man toasted his own cheese." 

Christopher North dubs toasted cheese " the 
Welshman's delight or Davies' darling," and speaks 
of the thread of unbeaten 'gold, shining like gossamer- 
j&laments, that may be pulled from its tough and 
" tenawcious " substance — a pretty piece of sentiment 
surely — " a divine sentiment extracted by the alchemy 
of genius from a Welsh Rabbit," he calls it himself. 
It is a dish the Scottish philosopher and his cronies 
frequently indulged in ; on one occasion their conver- 
sation reminds them of its toothsomeness . " Talking 
o' cats reminds me o' mice — and mice reminds ane 
o' toasted cheese ! " and forthwith the order is given 
for a Welsh Rabbit. 

A spurious ballad, from which the following lines 
are extracted, purports to exhibit the Welsh Rabbit 
as the national delicacy of the " wild Welsh." 

"Jenny ap-Rice, hur could eat nothing nice. 
A dainty Welsh Rabbit ? — go toast hur a slice 
Of cheese, if you please, which better agrees 
With the tooth of poor Taffy than physic and fees. 

A pound Jenny got, and brought to his cot 
A prime double Gloster, all hot, piping hot ! 
Which being a bunny without any bones. 
Was custard with mustard to Taffy ap-Jones." 

And so on, thtough many verses, in the same bur- 
lesque strain. 

Shakespeare makes a number of allusions to the 
Welshman's love of cheese, not the least pointed 
of which occurs in The Merry Wives: " I will rather 

20 



306 GOOD CHEER 

trust a Fleming with my butter than Parson Hugh 
the Welshman with my cheese." 

But what is the position of Scotland in the tabula- 
tion of gastronomic achievemaits? Has the sister 
kingdom been maligned in the records of culinary 
history? 

The Gentleman's Magazine of 1796 quotes a work 
written in 1670 purporting to give "the true 
character " of the people of Scotland, in which the 
assertion is made that in some parts of that coimtry, 
when a feast is given, the diners " tie up a living 
cow in the middle of them, near a great fire," and 
then cut coUops from the poor beast, and broil them 
on the fire, " till they have mangled her to pieces." 
It is entitled a " modem accoimt " ; in all prob- 
ability it is a gnossly libellous one. 

According to a writer in Blackwood a century 
ago, no country in Europe had made less progress in 
the art of cooking than Scotland. Writing in 18 17, 
he calls the Scots " a race of foul feeders." Among 
the dishes commonly met with at family dinners 
among the well-to-do, he mentions singed sheep's 
head, tripes, and beef -steaks and onions. No doubt 
the truly Doric dinners of North Britain are fre- 
quently of a composite character, as hotch potch, 
haggis, sheep's head broth, and black -puddings. 
If the repertory of dishes was restricted, it was due 
entirely to the poverty of the country. Scotland has 
become the " Land o' Cakes " simply because its 
stern climate has favoured the oat above all other 
cereals, and the Scots have naturally acquired a 
national fondness for their oatmeal bread, preferring 
it to wheaten bread^t is presented at every table, in 
thin triangular cakes, baked on a plate of iron called 
a girdle. To drag in Dr. Johnson's jeu d' esprit 
about their oaten food would be an insult to the 
reader, as its origfinal delivery was to a virile people. 



NATIONAL FOODS AND PEEJUDICES 307 

It may be surprising to learn that the haggis of 
Scotland, which in Dr. Johnson's day was vulgarly 
supposed to be incompatible with an Englishman's 
remaining at table, was a dish which every man 
in England affected in the time of the Commonwealth. 
In Markham's " English Housewife," published 1653, 
is a passage dealing with the use of oatmeal. After 
recipes for making oat -cakes and gruel, it says the 
same meal may be mixed with blood, and the liver 
of sheep, calf, or pig, thus making " that pudding 
which is called haggas, of whose goodness it is in 
vain to boast, because there is hardly to be found a 
man that does not affect them." 

Dr. Johnson's definition of oats falls rather flat 
after this. Markham goes on to describe a food 
called Wash-brew, made of the very small oatmeal by 
frequent steeping of it, and then boiling it into a jelly, 
to be eaten with honey, wine, milk, or ale, according 
to taste. This is practically the same kind of " dainty 
for a weak stomach " as Sir Kenelm Digby describes 
under the name of Wheaten Flomery. 

The modus operandi by which singed sheep's head 
is brought to table is thoroughly typical of a primi- 
tive commimity. The head is taken to a smithy, 
the wool is carefully singed off, first on the smith's 
fire, a rod being inserted in the nose, for facility 
in turning it over. It is then gone over with a 
red-hot bar of iron till every vestige of the wool is 
removed. Before it is cooked, the head is split 
through, and the brains removed. After being 
steeped in strong salt and water, it is carefully 
cleaned and put into a large soup-pot, with pearl 
barley, onions, cabbage, or kale, turnips and carrots 
cut up small, the latter sometimes grated. The 
soup thus made is excellent, and the head, with which 
the trotters are frequently boiled, is equally good. 
As the Shepherd in " Noctes Ambrosianae " says : 



308 GOOD CHEER 

" There is a great deal of fine confused feeding in 
a singed sheep's head." 

David Hume boasted how he could make " sheep's 
head broth in a manner that Mr. Keith speaks of for 
eight days after, and the Due de Nivernois would 
bind himself apprentice to my lass to leam it I " 

One philosopher has traced sheep's head broth to 
an origin earlier than that of the black broth of 
Sparta. The Scottish dish, as a culinary preparation, 
is a work of high art, requiring two distinct per- 
formers, two different handicrafts, to bring it to 
perfection ; the brawny blacksmith, with his glowing 
iron, working harmoniously with the neater-handed 
cook, to produce a dainty tureenful, delicious to the 
palate and grateful to the stomach. The line of 
argument runs through the Arabs of Morocco, who 
from a most remote period sent their sheeps' heads 
to the blacksmith to be singed, and afterwards made 
broth of them. " There is reason to believe," says 
this authority, " that the sheep's-head broth of the 
Gael excels that of the Spartan in antiquity, as it 
does in sapidity." 

Smollett savagely declares of this fish that it " put 
me in mind of the history of Congo, in which I read 
of negroes' heads sold publicly in the markets." 

Then there is minced collops, a dish common 
enough in Scotland, and which only the Scotch know 
how to make . Where there is such artistry there can 
be no shortcoming in conventionality. The charge 
of " foul feeding " implies a lack of culinary art. 

Hotch potch in Scotland hardly justifies the 
original form of its name, " hodge-pot," signify- 
ing a jumble of ingredients ; for it is simply soup 
made with mutton or lamb cut in small pieces, with 
peas, carrots, turnips, and sometimes parsley and 
celery, and served with the meat in it. Elsewhere 
it is often made of fragments in the pot -au- feu. 



NATIONAL FOODS AND PREJUDICES 309 

As to the steak and onions which our " superior " 
critic contemns, it is one of Scotia's favourite dishes, 
and as cooked there is appetising enough to make 
the mouth of a mummy water. The steak must 
be cut from the rump of a polled Angus bullock 
or from a prime Highland stot ; it is cooked, with 
the onions, on a brander (or gridiron) ; and to 
achieve perfection (as the Scottish housewife said 
to her expectant visitor, who was awaiting the results 
of her efforts), " you must have your fire as hot as 
hell, and turn eternally." ' 

But Caledonia's greatest and most characteristic 
triumph in culinary science is the haggis, which is 
made in this wise. One of the stomachs of a sheep 
(the paunch), that into which the oesophagus opens, 
is cut off from the others, arid thoroughly, cleaned to 
whiteness. It is a bag with si small mouth. The 
heart, lungs, and liver of the sheep "aire minced small 
and put into the bag, mixed with minced suet, onions, 
salt, pepper, and some toasted oatmeal. The orifice 
is then closed and the bag with its contents boiled. 

Properly made, it is excellent ; badly prepared, 
it is nauseous. 

Bums's poem " To a Haggis " begins : — 

"Fair fa' your honest spnsie face, 
Great chieftain o' the puddin' race ! 
Aboon them a' ye tak' your place, 

Painch, tripe, or thairm ; 
Weel are ye wordy of a grace 

As lang's my arm." 

And SO the immortal Scotsman sings its praises 
over French ragout, olio, fricass6e^ and every other 
dish in the world, declaring that 

"Auld Scotland wants nae skinking ware 
That jaups in luggies ; 
But, if ye wish her gratefu' prayer, 
Gie her a haggis ! " 



310 GOOD CHEER 

Black -puddings are not now so commonly eaten 
as they once were ; but fish is always a very popular 
article of diet in Scotland. It was the Scots who 
invented the dried, smoked haddock of Aberdeen, 
Bervie, and Findhom, and eke the tasty kipper — 
sometimes salmon. Cooked over a hot fire, on the 
brander, and served piping hot, slit up, with the 
bones removed and replaced by a lump of butter, 
is the correct Scottish method of sending the haddock 
to table. 

Cock-a-leekie is another popular dish, and consists 
of a fowl (for preference) boiled with a profusion 
of leeks and other vegetables. If shin of beef be 
substituted, the dish is just as good, but the name, 
of course, loses its descriptive force. 

A standing dish for dinner among' the middle 
and lower classes of Scotland is boiled beef, of the 
soup of which they make a kind of French boaitli, 
as by the addition of chopped cabbage or kale, 
carrots grated or cut into small pieces, and turnips. 
In recent times peas and broad beans, when in 
season, have been added. Of late years, with the 
growth of wealth and intercourse with England, the 
middle-class repertory of dishes has been greatly 
increased. 

An extraordinary dish is described by Christopher 
North under the name of " rumblethumps." The 
foundation of the mess seems to be a peck of 
potatoes iboiled in a boyne, or big pot, to which 
is added at intervals " dabs of butter," seasoned 
with " saut " and black pepper, the last ingredient 
added being cabbage. 

Among the working class porridge (" parritch ") 
and milk — or sometimes treacle — is the standing dish. 
Properly made it constitutes a wholesome diet. A 
generation or two ago ploughmen and other farm 
labourers lived in a barnlike room among the farm' 



NATIONAL FOODS AND PREJUDICES 311 

buildings, called a " bothie." One of the women 
made their beds, and they cooked their own food, 
which was usually " brose." This primitive 
food was made of raw oatmeal, with boiling water 
poured over it, and occasionally, perchance, a bit 
of salt butter mixed with it. With this they had 
a good allowance of milk from the dairy. But as 
the human stomach is not fitted to digest raw oat- 
meal, while this evil system was in vogue plougih- 
men were generally foimd to be a short-lived 
class. 

Another ploughman's dish, common to Scotland 
and Northumberland, was Sowens. Sowens were 
made of the coarse 'seeds sifted out of the oatmeal, 
put into a tub, covered with water, and allowed 
to stand till the mash turned sour. It was then 
taken out and boiled to a jelly-like substance which 
was sapped with milk. A story is told of a newly- 
engaged Peebles ploughman, at the end of his first 
day's work, finding his way to the kitchen when no 
one was present, and where the week's supply of 
sowens, prepared in advance for his feeding. Was 
disposed about the place in a number of bowls and 
pans. Going from one receptacle to another, he dis- 
patched every sowen to the last of the series ; aifter 
which he coolly remarked to the maid, who entered 
at that moment, " Lass, I wish you would to-morrow 
night make my sowens all in one dish, and not in 
drippocks and drappocks that way I " 

If America has a national dish, it is the favourite 
pork and beans of the New England States, which 
patriotic Americans order at the hotels and 
restaurants as " Stars and Stripes." 



XXVI 

INFLUENCE OF DIET ON NATIONAL CHARACTER 

English and French voracity — Englishman's beef-and-pudding im- 
perturbability — Soup-and-snail suavity of the French — Bloodless 
instincts of "orange-fed" Spaniards — An ill-fed nation's de- 
ficiencies — Dickens's lurid picture of Hunger stalking through 
France to kindle the Revolution — The German friebank — ^A 
potato diet — Tragedy of Irish famine — ^Waning energies of the 
Hollander — Starch-food diet unfitted for an enlightened race — 
A scientific diagnosis of the case — " Meat makes the man " — 
The Englishman, Frenchman, and Hollander contrasted — The 
Shakespearean philosophy that the eater of beef dulls his wit 
— ^The Professor's conclusion that man's spiritual powers need 
a peculiar kind of sustenance. 

In a treatise on diet Hippocrates contends that all 
men are born with the same mental capacity, and 
that the difference in mind which in after-life is 
discoverable amongst them is solely attributable to 
the quantity and quality of the food they have eaten. 
On the assumption that the metaphysical depends 
upon the physical, it has been argued that the national 
food forms the national character ; in proof of which 
have often been put forward the contrast between 
the smooth, slippery, volatile character of the soup-, 
snail-, and frog-eating Frenchman and the heavy, 
stolid, and imperturbable character of our own beef- 
and-pudding -eating countrymen. 

A writer in Household Words once said : " Next 
to Habeas Corpus and the freedom of the Press 

319 



DIET AND NATIONAL CHARACTER 313 

there are few things that the English people have 
a greater respect for and a livelier faith in than 
beef." 

Both the English and the French eat too much. 
A recent writer says : — 

" In the matter of food and drink the English people have a large 
and spacibus imaginativeness, and in nothing does Dickens more 
faithfully reflect them than in his delightful dwelling upon meals. 
They revel in stories of hospitality and conviviality. They are a 
perfect Dumas pere in their love of largeness and profusion. In 
these popular narrations there is always something large, farcical, 
and extravagant." 

As to the effect of diet upon character, it is well 
known that in the old fighting days the English- 
man always had a supreme contempt for the frog- 
eating Frenchman. It is related that at the attack 
on Cadiz the British ofiScer in command shouted to 
his men : " You Englishmen who are fed on beef 

surely dbn't mean to be beaten by a lot of 

Spaniards fed on oranges ! " A diet of frogs, or 
one of oranges, was altogether too bloodless to appeal 
to the fighting instincts of the brawny Englishman. 
" An army marches on its stomach," says the old 
proverb — and, of course, fights on it, too. 

"Salad and eggs, and lighter fare, 
Tune the Italian spark's guitar ; 
And, if I take Dan Congreve right. 
Pudding and beef make Britons fight," 

sings Matthew Prior. 

According to Vauban, Bossuet, and the old-time 
philosophers, the richest and most comfortable nation 
is that which eats most meat. 

An ill -fed nation can scarcely be a healthy one, 
and certainly it will be deficient in bodily strength 
and enterprise, whilst a sufficiently fed people, having 



314 GOOD CHEER 

these characteristics in a high degree, will be able 
to acquire wealth, which may be regarded as the 
material foundation for the stajbility of an empire, 
and for influence among nations. The sufficiency 
of food acting upon the masses of the people may 
be regarded as the cause, not the consequence, of 
national greatness ; but in the diffusion of the 
blessings which flow from wealth it may be expected 
that the consequence may in its turn react as a 
cause. 

Dickens has painted for us Hunger as the chief 
premonitory symptom of the greatest cataclysm that 
ever shook the foundations of society — the universal 
Hunger that stalked through France with muffled 
tread, stealthily assembling the tumbrils for the 
coming Revolution. He depicts it as a feature which 
furrowed every proletarian face among an oppressed 
and downtrodden people. Describing Paris, just 
before the Terror broke out, this lurid passage is 
to be found in his " Tale of Two Cities : — 

" Hunger was pushed out of the tall houses, in the wretched 
clothing that hung upon poles and lines ; hunger was patched into 
them with straw and rag and wood and paper ; hunger was repeated 
in every fragment of the small modicum of firewood that the man 
sawed off ; hunger stared down from the smokeless chimneys, and 
started up from the filthy street that had no ofiEal, among its refuse, 
of anything to eat. Hunger was the inscription on the bakers' 
shelves, written in every small loaf of his scanty stock of bad bread ; 
at the sausage shop ; in every dead-dog preparation that was 
offered for sale ! Hunger rattled its dry bones among the roasting 
chestnuts in the turned cylinder ; hunger was shread into atomies 
in every farthing porringer of husky chips of potato, fried with 
some reluctant drops of oil." 

This is an eloquent description of a continental 
country a century and a half ago ; let us take a 
passing glimpse of another at the present day, where 
the dietary of at least a section of the people is of 



DIET AND NATIONAL CHARACTER 315 

the kind on which revolutionaries are usually 
nourished. 

In Germany, where, owing to certain economic 
causes, flesh food is too dear to be within reach of 
the poor, a curious institution known as the Freibank 
exists. It is a municipal market at which is sold 
only meat that has been taken from diseased animals, 
or the flesh of injured animals that have been 
feverish, or meat that has been so diseased as to have 
required a prolonged process of scientific sterilisa- 
tion. The work of this institution is philanthropic, and 
earnest sanitarians are engaged in it. The poor, it 
is found, will not refrain from eating flesh, and 
would certainly indulge in diseased meat and become 
diseased themselves if access to harmless meat were 
not offered to them at the Freibank. Hotels, 
restaurants, and sausage-makers are forbidden to buy 
at this remarkable institution, the working of which 
at Munich was fully described in the Contemporary 
Review of December, 1 9 1 o. 

About the tiine of the great Irish potato famine 
an eminent Dutch chemist. Professor Mulder, wrote 
a treatise on " Food, in its Relations to National 
Spirit," in which he has nothing but condemnation 
for " that ill-starred root " the " ttagic potato." He 
maintains that of various aliments animal flesh, pulse, 
and cereal grains are amongst the most satisfactory, 
while rice, arrowroot, and, above all, potatoes, 
" cannot become a staple diet without the eaters 
not only dwindling in physical condition but growing 
more dull and torpid in intellectual, also, than befits 
an enlightened race." 

To the great prevalence of the potato in peasant, 
nay, even in the smaller burgher, kitchens in Holland, 
Mulder does not hesitate to ascribe the chief share 
in producing what he declares to be a growing 
lumpishness and, so to speak, potato-mindedness in 



316 GOOD CHEER 

the people — which to the ignorant, whose notions of 
Dutchmen have been gathered only from libellous 
proverbs and pert sayings current among their neigh- 
bours, will seem to be a nearly impossible 
catastrophe. It is, however, such alone who will 
laugh at Mulder's lament over the waning energies 
of the Hollander. Those who are conversant with 
his history — those, even, who can read the visible 
characters impressed on the strange kingdom which 
he has conquered from the waves, and maintains 
in despite of them — well know that, whatever he 
may now be, there was a time when, for patient 
courage, inflexible will, and an industry that nothing 
could daunt or weary, the man of the Low Countries 
had not his equal in Europe. 

One phase of his case Professor Mulder puts rather 
neatly thus : — i 

" Now, if that quantity of albumen which is absolutely necessary 
for the body is to be obtained from potatoes, the stomach must in 
that case be crammed with such a mass of this provender that it will 
act injuriously on the whole body. Experience does, indeed, teach 
us that it is possible to exist on potatoes alone ; but this, at all 
events, is no elastic, no healthy life. So distended, and blown up 
like a leathern bottle, a stomach that admits much useless matter, 
and gains from the mass but little that is of use to it, is in an 
unnatural condition. The bulk of the substance that daily fills the 
abdomen oppresses the nerves which are in close connexion with 
the brain. Voracious feeders are lumpish and somnolent ; and 
while, on the one hand, there are introduced into the body no 
strongly nutritive substances, abounding in materials of which the 
organism is especially composed — there is brought into the stomach, 
on the other hand, a quantity of profitless stuff which imparts to the 
body all the properties of a voracious animal, overloads the blood with 
useless matter, and stints it of that which it absolutely requires. 
Thus, he who eats largely of potatoes cannot, for the reasons 
given, be elastic ; — ^he receives at once both far too much and far 
too little." 

It may go against one's spiritual belief to set 
up the cook above Cato, and to believe that the 



DIET AND NATIONAL CHARACTER 317 

" divine particle " in man cannot resist, in the long 
run, the earthly influences of starch-producing roots 
taken as a chief article of diet. For to this we 
must come, if there be more than partial truth in 
the exhortations of Mulder. Meat makes the man, 
he says ; or if not this, at least, that you cannot 
keep the man up to the true pitch of his being 
unless you give him, not merely enough but the 
right kind of food — which amoxmts to pretty nearly 
the same thing. 

Strange enough it is to see the revolutions 
whereby old notions come back to resume a fore- 
most place in the speculations of modem philosophy. 
Who would have thought to meet with those 
popular fancies on the chapter of soup and beef- 
eating, immortalised by Hog'arth in the " Gate of 
Calais " — in a serious treatise by a leader of modem 
science . 

" The stouter diet of Englishmen, [says Mulder] — which may be 
partly a cause, partly the result of a more vigorous activity of the 
spiritual powers — is closely connected with the mental vigour of this 
nation ; — ^the French soup with the frivolity mirrored in these two 
— both equally vague — words Vhonneur et la gloire, with which that 
nation is continually deluding itself. In our country the separatist js 
usually a hypochondriac : strengthen his stomach, give him fortifying 
nourishment, and he will raise his spiritual views, and demand the 
more vigorous sustenance of an invigorated mind." 

Here we have the philosopher of the nineteenth 
century enforcing the principle Shakespeare embodied 
in the wisdom of his Sir Andrew Aguecheeks and 
Toby Belches 1 : — 

"Sir And. Methinks sometimes I have no more wit than a 
Christian or an ordinary man has ! But I am a great eater of beef : 
and I believe that does harm to my wit. 

Sir Toby. No question. 

Sir And. An I thought that, I'd forswear it.'' 



318 GOOD CHEER 

We may be reluctant to admit the supreme virtue 
of victuals in the formation of a manly character, 
but our learned professor has no doubts whatever 
abojut the moral claims of the art of cookery. In 
conclusion, he repeats and emphasises his arguments 

, — that with the organised body of man are inti- 
mately bound up his spiritual powers ; that civilised 

i thinking men require a peculiar kind of sustenance ; 

! and that in his rudest state of nature only does 
man, in common with the beasts of prey, enjoy his 
flesh diet raw. Maintaining his general thesis with 
learning and plausibility. Professor Mulder had not 
the slightest compunction in banning the potato from 
the dietary of the Irish peasant and the Dutch boor. 



XXVII 

CURIOSITIES OF DIET 

Eccentricity and catholicity of taste — ^Ancient examples — Raw 
mutton — Sodden pork — Beans forbidden — Ostrich flesh com- 
pulsory — The puppy, young fox, and young hawk — The por- 
poise, seal, and echinus eaten — British oysters — Fattened snails 
— Crammed peacocks — Salted horse — Cats in jelly — Lizard 
broth — Thistles — Dumas's " Grand Dictionnaire de la Cuisine " 
Elephants' feet — ^And other fantastic dishes — Scottish dessert 
turnips — Broth seasoned with gold. 

When we dive into the byways of gastronomy we are 
not long in coming across all manner of gustatory 
eccentricities . 

The gustatory sense in man when considered |as 
a common attribute is remarkable for its all- 
embracing catholicity. There seems to have been 
little on the face of the earth, or in the waters 
under the earth, which at one time or other has nat 
been regarded as desirable foodstuff. Equally 
curious is it to note how certain foods have, at 
various times and places, been banned as " unclean " 
or unfit for human consumption. 

In olden times several animals not considered 
edible at the present day formed favourite dishes 
at the tables of our ancestors. The seal and the 
porpoise were choice pieces de resistance^ and " The 
Forme of Cury " gives no less than five different 
recipes for cooking' the latter. According to Warner 



320 GOOD CHEER 

in his " Antique Culinary," it was even sold in the 
markets of most towns in Portugal in 1790. 

The ancient Egyptians were gross feeders as far 
as meat was concerned, their flesh-fare including, not 
only beef and goose but raw mutton. 

The heroes entertained by Odin in Valhalla passed 
the night in devouring huge jimkets of sodden boar's 
flesh — in other words, boiled pork — for the Saxons, 
like the Romans, were great pork eaters. In the 
opinion of Galen, pork was the most nutritious of all 
meats, but he forbade it to the sick, as also beef ; 
while mutton is a thing he proscribes even for the 
healthy and robust. 

A prohibition which appears more strange in our 
eyes was that of Pythagoras, who forbade beans to 
his followers ; and these as well as peas fell under 
Galen's condemnation. But Plutarch thinks that the 
prohibition of Pythagoras should be tinderstood in 
a mystical sense to sigliify that they were not to 
meddle in politics, beans playing" the part of the 
modem ballot-ball. 

Although Galen denounced the flesh of the ostrich, 
Heliogabalus was so fond of the bird that he com- 
pelled the Jews of his dominions to eat it in spite of 
their law. And it is curious to reflect that although 
the quail is in much request at modem Italian tables, 
it was never eaten by the Romans of old. 

Hippocrates equals the flesh of puppies to that 
of birds, and Galen praises the flesh of young foxes 
about autumn, when they have fed on grapes. The 
Romans ate the flesh of ypung' hawks. In the matter 
of sea -fish the ancients ate many varieties not now 
regarded as edible, as the dog-fish, the star-fish, 
porpoises, seals, and even the sea hedgehog, or 
ecMiuis. 

As is well known, Britain had the honour to supply 
later Rome with oysters, which were fetched from 



CURIOSITIES OF DIET 321 

the vicinity of Sandwich. It has been said that he 
was a bold man who ate the first oyster. And truly 
these things were largely a matter of prejudice — 
sometimes of national prejudice — as when we con- 
temptuously call a Frenchman a frog-eater, and 
shudder visibly at his taste for snails, even though at 
the time we may be eatiflg periwinkles with a pin. 
As the poet Gay hath it : — 

"The man had sure a palate covered o'er 
With steel or brass, that on the rocky shore 
First ope'd the oozy oyster's pearly coat 
And risked the living morsel down his throat." 

The elder Pliny tells us of a man who studied the 
art of fattening snails with paste so successfully that 
the shells of some of his snails would contain many, 
quarts. In the degenerate days of Rome swine were 
fattened with whey and figs, and even the fish in 
the ponds were increased in size by artificial means. 
These latter-day Romans crammed peacocks, in- 
dulged a taste for prodigious goose-livers, and indeed 
gave way to many other forms of luxurious feeding. 

Apparently, three centuries ago, snails were 
popular in England if they are not now. The; 
fastidious author of " The Faerie (^ueene " gives a 
recipe for their preparation : — 

"With our sharp weapons we shal thee fray 
And take the castill that thou lyest in ; 
We shal thee flay out of thy foule skin, 
And in a dish, with onyons and peper. 
We shal thee dresse with strong vynegars." 

The curiosities of diet are to be met with in all 
climies and in all ages of mankind. After the rati- 
fication of the treaty between the French and English 
at the termination of the sieg'e of Leith, in 1 5 60, the 
Frejich commander invited the English comtaiissioners 

21 



322 GOOD CHEER 

ajid officers to a banquet where, as HoUinshed 
narrates, " there were fortie dishes, and yet not one 
either of fish or flesh, saving one of powdered [i.e., 
salted] horse." 

In the matter of diet the Germans seem always to 
have had a strange taste. Don Anthony of Guevara, 
the chronicler of Charles V., inveighs bitterly against 
the German cooks. " I will tell no lie," exclaims 
the indignant courtier, " I saw such kinds of meat 
eaten, as are wont to be seen, but not eaten, as a 
roasted horse, a cat in jelly, little hzards in hot 
broth, frogs fried, and divers sorts of meat, which 
I never knew what they were till they were eaten. 
And, for God's sake, what is he that shall read my 
writing, and see what is commonly eaten at feasts, 
that it will not in a manner break his heart? " 
/A delicacy of the Italians in former times was the 
tardo (the thistle, with which was also included 
/the artichoke), which was generally served with the 
/ fruit at the end of a dinner. The cardo was some- 
f times eaten with pepper and salt — with pepper, " be- 
cause it will not generate wind, and clears the liver " 
— the popular belief being that because donkeys ate 
so largely of thistles was " the reason they had better 
stomachs than men." The " cardoon " is a most 
succulent and esculent vegetable which might find 
a welcome at English tables. 

Alexandre Dumas the elder was not only a 
colossal gourmet but a gifted cook, who believed, 
like Frank Buckland the naturalist, that he had eaten 
everything that was eatable. Dumas wrote a 
" Grand Dictionnaire de la Cuisine " of nearly twelve 
hundred pages, and in that comprehensive work in- 
cluded recipes for dishes so exotic as elephants' 
feet, fillets of kangaroo meat, stuffed babirusa 
(the Borean wild hog), and Javanese kingfisher^' 
nests. 



CURIOSITIES OF DIET 323 

Now to come a little nearer home for a few curious 
examples. 

" I have seen," says one of our great eighteenth-century novelists, 
describing Scottish hospitality, " turnips make their appearance, not 
as a dessert, but by way of hors d'oeuvres, or whets, as radishes are 
ser;ved up betwixt more substantial dishes in France and Italy ; 
but it must be observed that the turnips of this country are as much 
superior in sweetness, delicacy, and flavour to those of England, as 
a musk-melon is to the stock of a common cabbage. They are 
small and conical, of a yellowish colour, with a very thin skin ; and 
over and above their agreeable taste, are valuable for their anti- 
scorbutic quality." 

In Scotland broth is, and always has been, held 
in high regard. But it may not be generally known 
that in olden times there existed a custom of putting 
gold into the broth for the sick, especially for con- 
sumptive patients. 



XXVIII 

VEGETARIANISM 

A widespread cult — A religious observance — From a flesh diet to 
cookery — From cookery to disease — ^Ancient medical dietetics 
— Found detrimental to observance of fasts — ^And condemned 
by the early Fathers — Dr. Cheyne's experiment — A severe 
regimen — Reduced enormous bodily bulk — Restored health — 
And provoked a war of wit — Enghsh poets ranged against a 
sanguinary diet — Shelle/s " Vindication of a Natural Diet " — 
Gay's pity for the victims of the shambles — Pope's strictures 
on " the leaden death " dealt out to innocent birds — Byron's 
revolt against gross Enghsh feeding — ^What a carnal diet has 
to answer for. 

Incidental allusions to this interesting subject are 
compelled from time to time throughout these pages. 
Considering how great a portion of the world's popu- 
lation have always been practically vegetarians, that 
whole races and entire sects have been so |on principle^, 
the vastness and importance of the subject become 
at once apparent. 

Vegetarianism has been claimed as part of the 
wisdom' of the East. It may be said with equal truth 
to be a hygienic necessity of the tropics. 
I The Mosaic records tend to show that for more 
'than sixteen centuries mankind subsisted on vegetable 
/food alone. The ancient Greeks, till the days pf 
I Draco (620 B.C.), lived entirely on the fruits |of 
the earth. 

The piojis Hindbio, following the tenets of Brah- 

384 



VEGETARIANISM 325 

manism, holds the lives of animals sacred. The usual 
belief is that flesh-eating came into the world with 
the blood sacrifice. And with it came the art pi 
cooking. 

Even the austere LycurgiiSj in inventing his famous 
jus nigrum, or black broth, did not rely wholly upon 
vegetables, but is said to have taken the entrails 
of the herd to serve as his foundation. " The black 
Lacedaemonian which the Spartan stirred with his 
spear " was not entirely devoid of meat essence. 

With the advent of a flesh diet in place of the ; 
"kindly fruits of the earth," cookery became a! 
necessary accomplishment of man. And cookery is 
a subject which has engaged the pens of clever men 
from Hippocrates to Alexis Soyer ; but away back in 
the deeps of time it is to be feared the practitioners 
were more skilful than scientific. Seneca was forced 
to make the observation that diseases multiplied in 
proportion to the number of cooks. 

In the East, cookery very early divided itself into^ 
two branches — the science and the art ; one was * 
the learned, occult, esoteric, initiated cookery of the 
physicians and the philosophers, now called dietetics ; 
the other was the vulgar, but exceedingly edifying, 
art which, though less discriminating, proved far mjore 
satisfactory, and consequently superseded the other 
in popular esteem. 

In the fifth century St. Ambrose was highly in- 
dignant with these medical dietetics, and considered 
them the inferior system' of cookery. As they " called 
men from fasting " he considered them' contrary to 
Divine living. St. Bernard also shows his dis- 
pleasure, complaining that these philosophers teach 
how such a thing hurts the eyes, this the head, that 
the stomach. " Pulse are windy, cheese offends the 
stomach, milk hurts the head, water the lungs ; 
whence it happens that in all the rivers, fields. 



326 GOOD CHEER 

garfens, and markets, there is scarce to be any thing 
fitting for man to eat." A conclusion which;, to the 
Holy Abbot, savours of ingratitude to a boimtiful 
Providence. The bold appetite begotten of fasting 
is at least honest and natural. 

The attitude towar'ds dietetics taken up by Clement 
of Alexandria, the first great Christian writer and 
apologist, is somewhat sarcastic. Writing of ancient 
pagan sacrifices, he quotes the Greek poet who ridi- 
cules the practice and pretence of sacrificial pro- 
pitiation : — 

"The end of the loin, 
The gall, the bones uneatable, they give 
Alone to Heaven ; the rest themselves consume." 

Upon w'hich he quaintly remarks : — 

" If, in If act, the savour is the special desire of the gods of the 
Greeks, should they not first deify the Cooks, and worship the 
Chimney itself, v?hich is closer to the much prized savour ? " 

Arid here we may leave the ancients. Modem 
practice and opinion may prove more weighty. 
/ A notable experiment in vegetarianism was that 
/made two centuries ago. Dr. George Cheyne, a 
/ physician of eminence in his day, was educated at 
Edinburgh, under the celebrated Dr. Pitcaime. He 
commenced to practise in London, where he changed 
his style of living from abstemiousness to one of 
epicurean indulgence, with the natural result that he 
became abnormally fat. He weighed thirty-two stone, 
and his enormous size compelled him to have the 
whole side of his carriage made to open in order to 
receive him. With increase of bulk came its usual con- 
comitants — shortness of breath, habitual lethargy, and 
a crowd of nervous and scorbutic symptoms. Having 
vainly exhausted the powers of medicine, he deter- 
mined to try a milk and vegetable diet. By a regular 



VEGETARIANISM 



327 




erence to this regimen he reduced his weight 
Itniost a third, became strong, cheerful, a;cti've, 
heahhy, and, in fact, lived to a fair old age, 

ok he wrote on this treatment provoked the 
wing epigram from one of the free -living doctors 

criticised himi : — 

" Tell me from whom, fat-headed Scot, 

Thou didst thy system learn ; 
From Hippocrate thou hadst it not. 

Nor Celsus, nor Pitcairne. 
Suppose we own that milk is good 

And say the same of grass — 
The one for babes is only food. 

The other for an ass." 

To whicllJi Cheyne miade reply : — 

" My system, doctor, is my own. 
No tutor I pretend ; 
y blunders hurt myself alone. 

But yours your dearest friend, 
ere you to milk and straw confined 
Thrice happy might you be ; 
Ptlrhaps you might regain your mind. 
And from your wit get free." 

A number 6i English poets, as might be expected 
from the temptramental inclinations and proclivities 
of the poetic mind, have either practised vege- 
tarianism or ranged themselves among the opponents 
of a sanguinary diet. 

The eccentric poet Shelley, having adopted a vege- 
tarian diet, wrote a little prose work, " A Vindication 
of Natural Diet," in favour of the practice of vege- 
tarianism. Among his argiisnents he says : — 

" The allegory of Adam and Eve eafiing of the tree of evil, and 
entaiUng upon posterity the wrath of J God, admits of no other 
explanation than the disease and crime that have flowed from un- 
natural diet. 




328 GOOD CHEER 

" The story of Prometheus," he continues, " has never Vbeen 
satisfactorily explained. Prometheus stole fire from heaven / an^ 
was chained for this crime to Mount Caucacus, where a vujlture 
continually devoured his liver, that grew to meet its hurliger. 
Hesiod says, that, before the time of Prometheus, mankind fwere 
exempt from suffering ; that they enjoyed a vigorous youth andjf that 
death, when at length it came, approached like sleep, and gfently 
closed their eyes. . . . Prometheus first taught the use of ai^iimal _ 
food, and of fire, with which to render it more digestibl e and 
pleasing to the taste. . . . Man," he concludes, " resembl/es no 
carnivorous animal, being according to his intestinal arrangetment, 
herbivorous '' ; / 

and the poet then forces home his argument by| citing 
instances of horses, sheep, oxen, and even /wood- 
pigeons, having been taught to live on flesh, yill they 
have loathed their natural diet. 

Other of our English poets have lameVited the 
enormous flow of blood which man's flesh-eating 
habits have poured out like water. Gayf contemns 
the sanguinary diet : — / 

I 
" Think how the glutton, man, devouirs ; 
What bloody feasts regale his hours ! 

And in another! passage he picturfjs the terrors 
suffered by the victims of the Shambles : — 

" Against an elm a sheep was tied ; 
The butcher's knife in blood yfas dyed — 
The patient flock, in silent flight 
From far beheld the horrid sight." 

Pope's lines descriptive of^ " sporting " scenes are 
equally severe : — 

" See 1 from the brak^ the whirring pheasant springs 
And mounts exulting on triumphant wings ; 
Short is his joy; he feels the fiery wound, 
Flutters in blood., and panting beats the ground." 

And so he ranges, through all the victims of " the 



VEGETARIANISM 329 

leaden death," to a most pathetic climax in the 
couplet : — 

"Oft, as the mounting larks their notes prepare, 
They fall and leave their little lives in air." 

Byron revolted from the gross feeding of English 
banquets . English beef -eating is satirised by the 
Greek story of a Ctttan who— 

"Promoted breeding cattle 
To make the Cretans bolder in battle ; 
For we all know that English people are 
Fed upon beef . . . 
We know, too, they are very fond of war.'' 

The moral effect of meat;;eating is said to be 
ferocity. "Dogs bflhe chase are given more meat 
■ tKSTother dogs. A dog fed on raw flesh is said to 
be fiercer than one fed on dressed food. A carnal 
diet has indeed much to answer for — and yet England 
remains the most carnivorous of all nations. 

But let it not be imagined that all the English 
bards are on the same side. 

" If all the world 
Should, in a pet of temperance, feed on pulse. 
Drink the clear stream . . . 
Th' All-giver would be unthanked, would be unpraised," 

sings the Puritan poet, Milton. 

It has been recognised that there are steps on the 
way to the siummit of dietetic reform, but that the step 
of most importance is that which leaves behind the 
" barbarism of slaughtering our fellow-beings." The 
dreary monotony of a flesh fare may urge man in 
the direction of that step. 

The enthusiastic zoophilist has long yearned for a 
new meat — has hoped, say, for the rescue of some 
neglected quadruped like the eland of South Africa, 



330 GOOD CHEER 

or perhaps longed for the introduction into European 
kitchens of the reindeer of Labrador. 

Our resources for the chief item in the bill of fare 
are miserably restricted to two animals — ^pork being 
generally omitted, notwithstanding the eloquence of 
Elia— and for the major part of thie year to three or 
four birds . Fortunately, though the animals are only 
two, the meats are four ; veal and lamb, in their 
season, being welcome changes from the beef and 
mutton. It is the genius of the cook to produce 
from this daily monotony of raw material the greatest 
possible variety in the finished article — the dish agree- 
ably welcome in the novelty of its presentment. 

Vegetarianism in itself has much to recommraid it, 
but the cult fails to make wholesale conversions of 
the generous feeder, because it is too often associated 
with the eccentricities of the food-faddists — of the 
herbarians who try to get as near to grass -eatmg 
as possible ; of the fruitarians, and other cranks 'who 
bar the way to a health-reform diet by ranting about 
" scorched corpse," and employing other extrava- 
gances of language which repel rather than invite. 
And when they talk about vegetarianism enabling a 
man to live well on twopence a day, the economist is 
forced to remember that where a people do subsist 
at that rate wages generally fall to a " twopence a 
day " level. 



XXIX 

ANTHROPOPHAGY 

Ogres and child-eaters — The Attacottian taste — A Sabbatarian 
Cannibal — A Triadic accusation — Persistent charges against 
the Scots — Crysten Cleek (1339) — ^The Ogre of Angus (1440) — 
Sawney Bean — " Sheriff broth " — A recipe for cooking human 
flesh — "Saracen pork," a curative dish — A human sacrifice de- 
manded by hospitality — Civilised ceremonial of Aztec cannibal- 
ism — Criminals devoured in Sumatra as a punishment — Maori 
method of cooking a prisoner. 

^ 

In the matter of food, as in religion and politics, 
men have agreed to differ. How widely they differ 
is scarcely realised. It is difScult to conceive the 
grossness of taste which led the ancient to account 
asafoetida, the most nauseous of drugs, as a prime 
luxury, and to declare it a food fit for the gods. 

A morbid desire for food has developed many 
revolting practices, and eccentricity of appetite may 
have been responsible for anthropophagy. 

Cannibalism, unpleasant as the subject may be, 
cannot be altogether excluded from our consideration . 
Primitive man is supposed to have been very largely 
anthropophagous during the Bronze Period. All 
highly civilised nations have regarded the habitual 
man-eater with abhorrence ; in fairy lore he always 
appears as an ogre, and in " Othello " we have the 
allusion to — 

"The Cannibals that each other eat, 
The Anthropophagi, and men whose heads 
Do grow beneath their shoulders." 

S31 



332 GOOD CHEER 

Over and over again men have been driven by the 

stress of circumstances to eat their fellows ; and 

others, perfectly innocent of the practice, have 

acquired the reputation of being devourers of human 

flesh. It is well authenticated that the Conqueror's 

devastation of the northern counties was so severe 

as to drive the Saxons to this extremity, and the same 

lire extremity occurred at the overrunning of Ireland 

3y the Bruces in the fourteenth century, when, 

iccording to the annals of Lough C6, the people 

'" used to eat one another throughout Erin." Similar 

/evidence of a sickening nature is given against the 

! distressed Irish at a later period by Edmund Spenser. 

During our interminable wars with France in the 

Middle Ages the French always stigmatised the 

English as " eaters of little children," no doubt pure 

calumny. 

Does not Shakespeare, in the play of King John, 
hint at the barbarous practice of eating prisoners of 
war, in the line — 

" What, shall our feast be kept with slaughtered men ? " 

Some old legendary custom among the horrors of 
war may possibly lurk behind these allusions to ogres 
and the propensity to eat captives. 

St. Jerome, who visited Gaul in his youth, about 
the year 380, records how he learnt there that the 
Attacotti, the people of the country now called 
Scotland, when hunting in the woods, preferred the 
shepherd to his flocks, and chose only the most fleshy 
and delicate parts for eating. Which shows that even 
a saint is not above the retailing of a choice bit of 

/ossip. 
The earliest notice we have of the practice in this 
country may be a calumnious piece of history- 
making. In the old chronicles known as the Welsh 



ANTHROPOPHAGY 333 

Triads the accusation is brought against Ethelfrith,\ 
King of England, that he encouraged cannibalism at! 
his court, and that one Gwrgi, a truant Welshman; 
there, became so enamoured of human flesh that hel 
would eat no other. It was his custom, according to 
this mendacious chronicle, to have a male and a 
female Kymry killed for his own eating every day, 
except Saturday, when he slaughtered two of each in 
order to be spared the sin of breaking the Sabbath. 
This detail as to the Celt's piety gives an artistic 
finish to "an otherwise bald and unconvincing narra- 
tive." 

The credibility of these statements, which occur 
in the third series of the Triads, is not very high. 
This series has no higher antiquity than the fifteenth 
century, and, besides Gwrgi Garwlwyd (literally the 
Rough Grey Dog-man), implicates others in the same 
charge. Cannibalism is attributed not only to the 
degenerate Sabbatarian, but to two other vile and 
renegade Britons, through whose treachery the 
Kymry lost their land to the Saxons — ^Medrawd 
(Modred), a rival of King Arthur ; and Aeddan, 
King of the Dalraiad Scots (sometimes called the 
Traitor of the North), who, in the year 577, fought 
at the Battle of Airdrie against the King of Strath- 
clyde, in the last great effort of Druidism to resist 
the advances of Christianity. It is not surprising 
that the same questionable authority imputes canni- 
balism to Ethelfrith and the Angles of Northumbria ; 
a Triadic statement which is very much weakened 
by a consideration of the fact that the memory of this 
Northumbrian king was justly hateful to the Welsh 
because of the many depredations he had committed 
upon them. / 

The charge of cannibalism brought against the | 
inhabitants of old Scotland is somewhat persistent. ' 
Andrew Wyntoun has a grisly passage in his rhyming 



334 GOOD CHEER 

chronicle regarding a man who was almost his con- 
temporary. It was about the year 1339, when Scot- 
land had been overrun by Edward III., and even its 
most fertile parts had been desolated. 

"About Perth thare was the countrie 
Sae waste, that wonder wes to see ; 
For intil well-great space thereby, 
Wes nother house left nor herb'ry. 
Of deer thare wes then sic foison [abundance] 
That they wold near come to the town. 
Sae great default was near that stead. 
That mony were in hunger dead. 

A carle they said- was near thereby, 
That wold set settis [traps] commonly. 
Children and women for to slay, 
And swains that he might over-ta ; 
And ate them all that he get might : 
Crysten Cleek till name be hight, 
That sa 'ry life continued he, 
While waste but folk was the countrie." 

That garrulous chronicler, Lindsay of Pittscottie, 
has a still more dismal story of the reign of James II ., 
about 1440, a time of which this historian might 
almost have heard from living witnesses. He says : 

" About this time there was ane brigand ta'en, with his haill 
family, who haunted a place in Angus. This mischievous man 
had ane execrable fashion, to tak all young men and children he 
could steal away quietly, and eat them, and the younger they were, 
esteemed them the more tender, and delicious. For the whilk 
cause and damnable abuse, he with his wife and bairns were all 
burnt, except one young wench a year old, wha was saved and 
brought to Dundee where she was brought up and fostered. And 
when she cam to a woman's years, she was condemned and burnt 
quick for that crime [her father was convicted] . When she was 
coming to the place of execution there gathered ane huge multi- 
tude — cursing her ... to whom she turned about with an ireful 
countenance, saying, ' Wherefore chide ye with me ? . . . Give me 
credence, and trow me, if ye had experience of eating men and 
women's flesh, ye wold think it so delicious that ye wold never 
forbear it again." 



ANTHROPOPHAGY 335 

Accor'ding to the history of Dundee this remark- 
able execution took place before the old Town House 
in the Seagate. In the words of the old chronicler :— 

"So bot ony signe of repentance this vnhappie traitous died in 
the sight of the people." 

James Grant, in his novel " The Yellow Pirate," 
makes use of this weird old legend of the " ogre of 
Angus." Ewain Gavelrigg is described as a man 
of vast stature and frightful aspect, entirely clad in 
homespun grey, with rough deerskin shoes and galli- 
gaskins, a broad belt of cowhide encircling his 
waist, while his head, destitute of bonnet, was pro- 
tected by a forest of matted black hair. A blow 
from his clenched fist was sufficient to brain a moun- 
tain bull or smite a charger to the earth ; those who 
escaped from him averred they saw him sucking thcj 
blood of those he had slain, and rending asunder their 
limbs like the branches of a withered bush, while 
he picked their bones as if they had been those of a 
chicken. 

His haunt was a savage pass in the Sidlaw Hills, 
where he occupied a small hut, walled with turf 
and thatched with heather, and whence he way- 
laid, robbed, and slew solitary travellers. The novel 
tells how the vampire marauder was eventually slain, 
and how two wild, haggard-looking women, his wife 
and daughter, begged the body. Even then murders 
and mutilations did not cease, and children still 
mysteriously disappeared, till all Angus was stricken 
with consternation by the tidings that the wild man of 
the Sidlaws had come to life again. A crusade 
was then proclaimed, the hut in the lonely pass was 
destroyed and levelled, when in a vault beneath it 
was found an incredible quantity of human bones, 
while an unbearable odour of dead carrion pervaded 
the whole place. For all the other marvellous' 



336 GOOD CHEER 

happenings in this strange episode the reader is 
referred to the novel itself. 

The most notorious cannibal who ever achieved 
the honour of having his life recorded was Sawney 
Bean, whose horrible exploits are given at length 
in Johnson's " Lives of the Highwaymen." This 
monster had his haunt on the Galloway shore, where, 
with the aid of a large family which he reared in 
a cave there, he is computed to have murdered and 
devoured not less than a thousand persons, men, 
women, and children, in the course of five-and-twenty 
years. As soon as he had robbed and murdered his 
victim, he carried off the carcass to his den, where it 
was cut into quarters, like a beast at the shambles, 
and some of the mangled limbs put into pickle. 

At last an exploit of more than usual atrocity led 
to an organised himt being undertaken for the capture 
of this bloodthirety clan. King James I. led the 
expedition in person — it was during the lifetime of 
Elizabeth, ere he had ascended the throne of England 
— and it was with considerable difficulty that the awful 
cavern was located, its entrance being masked by the 
rocks and concealed by the tide. With the aid of 
torches, its intricate windings were explored, and the 
habitation of horrors stood at last revealed, reeking 
like a charnel-house. The captured monsters were 
taken under a strong guard to Edinburgh, and were 
all executed in a manner befitting the horrible nature 
of their offences, and characteristic of the savagery 
of the times. The work in which this disgusting 
chronicle of human depravity is preserved is a Bir- 
mingham-printed book of 1742, and the life of 
Sawney Bean is accompanied by a full-page engrav- 
ing which shows the wretch at the entrance of his 
cave, standing sword in hand in front of a mutilated 
corpse, and his wife entering the cavern with a human 
leg, presumably to prepare it for the family con- 
sumption. 



ANTHROPOPHAGY 337 

Yet another supposed case of cannibalism in the 
Northern Kingdom is said to have occurred at the 
death-feast of Melville, of Genbervie, the obnoxious 
sheriff of the Mearns, who, according to a certain 
written account, was " sodden and supped in broo " 
by some lawless Scottish barons. This story is 
generally taken by wary historians, as no doubt the 
feasters took their broth, cum grano salts. 

There is, however, a recipe for cooking human 
flesh, and it is believed to be unique, the only one 
extant in any language. It occurs in the " Romance 
of Richard Coeur de Lion^" where we are told that 
the lion-hearted King, when recovering from ague 
during the crusade, longed vehemently for a dish of 
boar's flesh. The " accursed father of bristles," 
as the Moslems term the hog, not being procurable 
on the plains of Palestine, the royal physicians were 
in a fix, as the King would not eat any other kind 
of meat, and animal food was considered essential 
to his recovery. 

A sagacious old knight having been consulted, Soon 
relieved them of their difficulty, by the following 
prescription : — 

"Take a Saracen, young and fat, 
In haste let the thief be slayne, 
Opened, and his skin off flayne, 
And sodded full hastily. 
With powder and spicery 
And saffron of good colour." 

The old knight's advice was taken, and the King, 
believing it to be pork, made a hearty supper, and, 
after a sound sleep, awoke next morning perfectly 
recovered, and with a voracious appetite. But fancy, 
the; dismay of the cook when the King demanded 
for breakfast — 

"The head of that ilk swine 
That I of ate." 
22 



338 GOOD CHEER 

After some hesitation, the whole truth had to be 
divulged to the warlike monarch, who, instead jof 
being angry, rejoiced to discover the Saracens were 
such excellent food, as his army whenever in reach 
of the infidels need be in no more danger of famine. 

Among Eastern nations exist a number of folk- 
myths, the ethical value of which is no doubt to teach 
the obligations of hospitality. Incidentally, however, 
they reveal vestiges of the lingering traditions of 
anthropophagy. Here is one of Servian origin : — 

" A weary traveller called at the hut of a very poor man, and asked 
for food and shelter. ' The forest will give us wood to make a fire/ 
said the wife, 'but meat we have none.' The husband, after search- 
ing every corner, found a dry crust, which he offered his visitor. 
' Do you offer this to a traveller ? ' he cried. ' I want tender meat.' 
' Alas ! ' said the good man, ' we have neither sheep nor goats. How 
can we give you meat ? ' ' You have a child which will provide me 
with meat.' Upon hearing this the poor woman fell fainting to the 
ground ; but the husband, horror-struck though he was, could not 
fail in hospitality, and after killing the child to provide for the wants 
of his visitor, went to bed with a relieved mind, and slept soundly. 
The traveller, however, was Christ ; the child was not lost to them, 
and their hospitality was rewarded with flocks and herds." 

Similar legends occur in Thessaly and the neigh- 
bouring countries of the Near East. In Buddhist 
legendary literature recur many varying tales of the 
sacrifice of body or limbs for starving animals, or 
for the sole gratification of an enemy. 

By the Aztecs of Mexico, a people, though singu- 
larly fierce and warlike, far advanced in the arts of 
civilisation, cannibalism was invested with great 
pomp. Prescott, the historian of the country, in his 
account of the Spanish Conquest, thus alludes to 
the practice, which was in essence perhaps an ancient 
hereditary custom practised as a religious cere- 
mony : — 

" The most loathsome part of the story — the manner in which the 
body of the sacrificed captive was disposed of — remains yet to be 



ANTHROPOPHAGY 339 

told. It was delivered to the warrior who had taken him in battle, 
and by him, after being dressed, was served up in an entertainment 
to his friends. This was not the coarse repast of famished canni- 
bals, but a banquet teeming with delicious beverages and delicate 
viands, prepared with art, and attended by both sexes, who, as we 
shall see hereafter, conducted themselves with all the decorum of 
civilised life. Surely never were refinement and the extreme of ^ 
barbarism brought so closely into contact with each other," 

In another passage Prescott depicts the sumptuous - 
ness and magnificent scale upon which the Aztecs 
gave their repasts, enumerating among the dishes 
they served meat, game, turkeys, vegetables of 
various kinds, and no stint of delicious fruits. The 
tables were ornamented with vases of silver and of 
gold, all of the most delicate workmanship. The 
drinking cups and spoons were of the same costly 
material, or of tortoiseshell . Their favourite bever- 
age was chocolate, flavoured with vanilla and spices. 
They kept their meats warm with chafing dishes. 
Yet with all these accessories and refinements this 
people indulged in cannibalism in the form of an 
epicurean science. Indeed, one veracious chronicler 
of the Spanish Conquest mentions a fricassee, or stew 
of little children, in which he vouches the Aztec 
Emperor sometimes indulged himself. 

Sir Stamford Raffles has recorded that the Battas 
of Sumatra; are habitual cannibals, which he thinks 
is the more extraordinary as they acknowledge a! 
Supreme Being. Their laws regulate the eating of 
criminals and prisoners of war. This form of death 
is inflicted for adultery, midnight robbery, and 
treacherous attacks on a person, a; house, or a village. 
The criminal, or prisoner, as the case may be, is\ 
tied to a stake and eaten alive, each person cutting ' 
off a slice according to taste or fancy, until all the 
flesh is devoured. Of all eating customs knoiwtt 
this is pre-eminently the most revolting. 



340 GOOD CHEER 

In quite recent times the Maoris of New Zealand 
were confirmed cannibals. An English sailor who, 
with a number of his comrades, was taken prisoner 
by these savages in the earlier part of last century, 
has described their customary method of feasting 
on their prisoners. He says that after the killing 
of his companions holes were dug in the ground, in 
which great wood fires were made, and a nimiber 
of large stones made intensely hot therein. The 
cut-up bodies of the sailors were placed over the 
hot stones, upon which had first been scattered some 
green leaves, and over all were heaped more green 
leaves, the whole being covered in with a stra^ 
mat and well damped with water. This preparation 
took place in the evening. Next morning found the 
banquet " well cooked," says this horrible record. 

Modern travellers still bring home tales of cannibal 
practices among the tribes remotest from civilisation. 

Be sure the jocular Professor of the North pokes 
fun at anthropophagy, as he does at many serious 
subjects, and makes the Shepherd say : " When I 
was a lion there was naething unleonine about me. 
Noo, I could never bring my stamack to eat an auld 
woman. Girl, doubtless, was a delicacy once a 
fortnight — but girl every day would hae been " 

" Toujours perdrix," interjects Tickler. " Just 
sae," acquiesces the imperturbable Shepherd. 



XXX 

DIET AND HEALTH, TASTES AND TRAITS 

Effects on health — Temperament — ^And imagination — Fish as a 
preventive of loquacity — ^Adder-eaters mute, but given to hiss- 
ing — Stomachic peculiarities — Living by rule — Rules for the 
aged — And the sick — Benefits of plain and sparing diet — ^And 
light suppers — The hungry man dangerous — Obesity — Phil- 
osophy of fasting — What to avoid — Disastrous effects of over- 
indulgence — Pudding and beef for the fighting Briton — The 
human stomach — Gall — Spleen — Melancholy — Apple-pudding 
depression — Gentleness inspired by asparagus — Plague-dispos- 
ing diet — Food antipathies— Tastes and diet of great men — 
Dryden's " vulgar stomach" — Tastes and peculiarities of Lamb — 
Swift — Pope — Johnson — Byron — Shelley — Newton. 

Diet plays a larger part in the history, of our lives, 
and, indeed, in the history of the world, than iwe 
are wont to recognise. It has been said that half 
the suicides, murders, heresies, false philosopiiies, 
and apostasies that have stained the annals of out 
race have had their origin remotely in a disordered 
stomach or liver, from the malassimilation of food. 

" To a sound man sauces are needless ; to one 
who is diseased they nourish, not him but his dis- 
temper ; and presently the intemperance of his taste 
betrays him into the hands of Death." 

Sydney Smith says : "Old friendships are 
destroyed by toasted cheese, and hard salted meat 
has led to suicide. Unpleasant feelings of the body\ 
produce corresponding sensations of the mind, and a^ 



342 GOOD CHEER 

fereat scene of wretchedness is sketched out by a 
morsel of indigestible misguided food." It is 
related of Fuseli, the artist, that whenever he wished 
to add weird effects to any painting he had in hand, 
he invariably ate a hearty supper of pork chops to 
produce nig'htmare, from the distorted imaginings 
of which he derived his inspiration for the gruesome 
and the grotesque. 

" ' With Stupidity and sound Digestion ' (says the satirical sage of 
' Sartor Resartus ') man may front much. But what, in these dull 
unimaginative days, are the terrors of conscience to the diseases of 
the liver f Not on Morality, but on Cookery, let us build our strong- 
hold. There brandishing our frying-pan, as censer, let us o£Eer 
sweet incense to the Devil, and live at ease on the fat things he has 
provided for his Elect." 

It was held indisputable by the naturalists of the 
tenth ahd eleventh centuries that man's physical con- 
stitution and even his intellectual character were 
modified by his food. .(Egidius de Monte says that 
the Church wisely enjoins the use of fish in Lent 
because that species of food prohihet loqaelam. 
'(" prevents idle chattering ") — fish being themselves 
proverbially mute. .When Sir John Mandeville, 
therefore, heard of a people that ate serpents he 
concluded that they must have something of a reptile 
character. 

"In the countree of Yude the more, there is gret plentee of 
neddres [adders], of whom men maken gret festes, and eten hem at 
gret soUempnytees. And he that makethe ther a feste, be it never 
so costisous, and have no neddres, he hath no thanke for his travaylle. 
...Thei eten flesche of serpentes, and thei eten but litille, and thei 
speken nought, but thn hissen as serpentes don." 

Mandeville was, of course, the famous traveller 
of the fourteenth century — the same whose reported 
marvels included " the vegetable lamb " and " the 
anthropophagi and men whose heads do grow 
beneath their shoulders." 



DIET AND HEALTH, TASTES AND TRAITS 343 

In matters of diet persons have individual 
peculiarities ; doctors encounter an infinity of 
stomach eccentricities, and it is an incontro- 
vertible truth that is expressed in the old proverb, 
" What is one man's meat is another man's 
poison." 

An ancient maxim says that whatever pleases the i 
palate nourishes. Modem science has scarcely justi- 
fied the philosopher who delivered himself of this I 
axiom. Another school of thought puts forth the/ 
more discreet dictum that one should eat, if possible/ 
of one kind of food only, or, at all events, ea:t of 
that dish first which is the most palatable. 

But if one wanted to live by rule, there is no 
lack pf advice for the guidance of those who wish 
to be led in matters gastronomical . The aged are 
advised to eat often, and little at a time, as weak 
and wasted bodies need the reparation of tissue to 
go on slowly and constantly ; they also are to give 
liquid food the preference to solid, inasmuch as it 
digests more easily and nourishes soonest. 

" When struck in years strong drink forbear, 
Especially of wine beware ; 
Old men of moisture want supplies, 
But wine of all sorts heats and dries." 

It is an eighteenth -century mentor who rhymes 
his admonitions thus. 

The sick are warned to eat less, not more, than 
usual ; they are admonished with the solemn caution, 
" The more you fill your foul bodies, the more you 
hurt them." 

"To miss a meal sometimes is good, 
It ventilates and cools the blood, 
Gives Nature time to clean her streets 
From filth and crudities of meats ; 
For too much meat the bowels fur. 
And fasting's Nature's scavenger." 



344 GOOD CHEER 

A plain diet is, naturally, recommended for every 
one, and a sparing use of food is counselled at 
that. 

"Accustom early in your youth 
To lay embargo on your mouth, 
And let no rarities invite 
To pall and glut your appetite, 
But check it always, and give o'er 
With a desire of eating more ; 
For where one dies of inanition, 
A thousand perish by repletion." 

This old-fashioned philosophy may be sound, but 
it is much too cold to be comforting. 

"Till hunger pinches never eat, 
And then on plain, not spiced, meat. 
Desist before you've eat your fill ; 
Drink to dilute, but not to swUl ; 
So no ructations you will feel." 

Here, our mentor becoming coarse, we will honour 
his musty lucubrations with but one other quotation, 
and then no more of him : — 

" Let supper little be, and light ; 
But none makes always the best night — 
It gives sweet sleep without a dream, 
Leaves morning's mouth sweet, moist, and clean." 

Nobody doubts that luxurious living is detrimental 
to health, and that simple fare is the more bene- 
ficial to the body — indeed, that it is more 
strengthening to the mind. 

A traveller in France relates that he took shelter 
one night among the Trappists, and says he " was 
conducted to the refectory, where was found a table 
spread with fruit, vegetables, bread, cheese, butter, 
honey and sweetmeats, good wine, and cider," of 
which the courteous hospitatier pressed him to 



DIET AND HEALTH, TASTES AND TRAITS 345 

partake. Here was truly the simple fare of the 
simple life. 

A hungry man is an .angry man, and an empty 
stomach has no conscience. To a demoralising 
hunger Shakespeare in " Coriolanus " ascribes the 
hero's failure : — 

"He had not dined ; 
The veins unfilled, our blood is cold, and then 
We pout upon the morning, are apt 
To give or to forgive; but when we have stuffed 
These pipes and these conveyances of our blood 
With wine and feeding, we have suppler souls 
Than in our priest-like fasts." 

" Let me have men about me that are fat," says Caesar, " sleek- 
headed men, and such as sleep o' nights. . . . Yond Cassius has a 
lean and hungry look. . . . Such men are dangerous." 

The connection between obesity and eating is 
perhaps less marked than between that complaint 
and self-indulgence in drinking ; the subject need 
not be further pursued here than to note the fact 
that the removal of an excess of adipose tissue from 
a man has been accomplished by a surgical opera- 
tion. The doctors tell us that the stomach is the 
most educable of the body's organs ; and no one 
really doubts that, whether it be to stimulate a jaded 
appetite or to restore the ' balance of health in the 
opposite direction, nothing is eventually and per- 
manently more efficacious than a severe system of 
dieting. The philosophy of fasting has been recog- 
nised in religious codes from the Mosaic dispensa- 
tion to the austerities of Romanism . 

As the man of forty is either a fool or a 
physician, the matured man of the world, sure 
of himself, knows what dishes to avoid. Lord 
Worcester was counselled by the great physician 
Sir Henry Halford to avoid all made dishes. 
" Side dishes," said he, " are poison ! " " Yours 



346 GOOD CHEER 

may be," retorted his lordship, with sublime con- 
fidence, " and I should never dream of eating them ; 
but mine are a very dififerent story." 

The well -dined man — the one who has dined wisely 
and not too well — has a sublime confidence in 
himself — 

"Fate cannot harm me — I have dined to-day.'' 

Dietetic influences are twofold — they have an effect 
on the character and conduct as well as on the bodily 
health. In estimating the latter, history informs 
us that we owe the deaths of at least two English 
monarchs to over-indulgence at the table — Henry I. 
from eating too freely of lampreys, and King John 
from a suicidal indulgence in peaches and new ale. 

Had the great Napoleon not been compelled to 
leave the battlefield of Leipsic at a critical moment, 
owing to a severe attack of colic brought on by 
over-indulgence in one of his favourite but in- 
digestible dishes, it is believed that tremendous 
conflict might have ended very differently. 

The celebrated John Hunter said : — 

" Some physiologists will have it that the stomach is a miU ; 
others, that it is a fermenting-vat ; others again, that it is a stew- 
pan ; but in my opinion, gentlemen, it is neither a mill, nor a 
ferment-vat, nor a stew-pan ; but a stomach, gentlemen, a stomach ! " 

Every one is said to possess the stomach he 
deserves, and there can be no doubt that our 
digestions are of our own making. 

Ages before the study of human anatomy had 
developed into an exact science it was at least known 
that in some mysterious way or other a" man's 
digestive organs had an appreciable influence on his 
temperament or character. All ill-tempei: or 
Irascibility was supposed to originate in an over- 
ow of the bile, and the man who exhibited it was 



DIET AND HEALTH, TASTES AND TRAITS 347 

said to be full of cholef (Greek, chole, "bile")- 
Shakespeare describes Fluellen as " toucht with 
choler, hot as gunpowder." Melancholy was sup- 
posed jo_resuix_Xmm.<jyn-»«xsrfla2^ bile 

(GreeTc, melan, "black," and chole). Gall— that is, 
bile — likewise connotes ill-humour ; thus Gibbon 
speaks of " the bitterness of religious gall." The 
root ot the word is allied to chole. The term 
" spleen," again, was employed to connote spite or 
ill-humour, because in ancient physiology this organ 
was supposed to be the seat of anger and melancholy. 
In the Spectator we read of the dull wretch who 
" excuses his dullness by comp^laining of the spleen." 

The ancients were not so very far wrong in tracing 
a; connection between a man's behaviour and his 
powers of digestion. 

But surely it is not possible that a form of diet 
reflects itself in the countenance and demeanour of 
a man? That celebrated wit Sydney Smith once 
pretended that it did. Although a clergyman, his 
epicureanism was quite frank ; it exhibited itself in 
a spirit of good-fellowship and that generous 
sympathy, which becomes the hospitable ban vivant. 

" Luttrell came over for a day," he writes, " from whence I know 
not, but I thought not from good quarters ; at least, he had not his 
usual soup-and-patti look. There was a forced smile upon his 
Countenance which seemed to indicate plain roast and boiled, a sort 
of apple-pudding depression, as if he had been staying with a 
clergyman." 

This anecdote very fairly represents the Rev. 
Sydney's style of humour as well as his dietetic 
standard. 

The man cannot have a pure mind who refuses 
apple-dumplings, said one of Charles Lamb's 
acquaintances. Ella himself confessed that with the 
decay of his first innocence he had less relish for 



348 GOOD CHEER 

innocuous cates, and that the whole vegetable tribe 
lost their gust for him, except only asparagus, a 
stick of which seemed to inspire gentle thoug'hts. 

A curious Plague Pamphlet of the year 1665 cites 
certain articles of diet, among other predisposing 
influences, by which the pestilence was believed to 
be spread in London. As thus : — 

" Eating radishes, a cat catter wouling, a dinner of scales in Fish- 
street, a dish of french beans, eating the fat near the rump of a 
loyne of mutton and drinking cold beer immediately upon it, wett- 
ing the feet in a slip out of the boat by the waterside, an immoderate 
eating of caveare and anchoves, tame pigeons that flew up and down 
in an alley, drinking strong heady beer." 

Without being credulous, we may believe that 
infection has sometimes been conveyed in food. 
Diet, indeed, has much to do with health in a general 
way, and 



/ 



'There was a time wlien the bodj^'s members 
Rebell'd against the beUy." 



Antipathies to certain articles of food are as 
/ remarkable as they are unaccountable. Erasmus had 
such an aversion from fish that the smell of it threw 
him into a fever ; and his opponent in controversy, 
Joseph Scaliger, was always unable to drink milk. 
Cardan, the philosopher, and one of the most learned 
men of the sixteenth century, was sick at the sight 
of eggs ; and Ambrose Par6, the father of modem 
surgery, tnentions a man who always fainted when 
he saw an eel. If an apple were shown to Chesne, 
secretary to Francis I., he bled at the nose ; and 
the list of such inexplicable aversions might be 
.considerably extended. 

The history of gastronomy is that of manners, if 
not of morals, says Mr. Abraham Hayward^ in his 

Art of Dining " ; and the learned are aware that 



DIET AND HEALTH, TASTES AND TRAITS 349 

its literature is both amusing and instructive ; for 
it is replete with curious traits of charaicter and 
comparative views of society at different periods, 
as well as with striking anecdotes of remarkable 
men and women whose destinies have been strangely! 
influenced by their epicurean tastes and habits. ' 
Most readers feel themselves at home with the 
author who records what he had for dinner, or who 
speculates on the probable constituents of the next 
meal he will encounter. Wordsworth and Hazlitt 
once went for a day's walk among the hills ; they 
both noted their impressions, but while Wordsworth, 
as befitted so exalted a personage, never descends 
to details, Hazlitt's essay is infinitely more pleasant 
reading — it may have been outrageously carnal of 
him to note how the dinner was served by a buxom 
young woman, but it was intensely human. An 
interest in these things gives a zest to life. 

To learn the tastes and the diet of great men,\ 
to know their likes and their dislikes, and the \ 
favourite dishes in which they indulged is to see \ 
their weakness as well as their greatness, and so 
to bring them nearer to ourselves. 

Mseceras, according to Pliny, relished the meat 
of the foal of a tame donkey. 

Dryden honestly liked the flitch of bacon better 
than more delicate fare ; as he said, he had " a very 
vulgar stomach." When Charles Lamb and his 
sister gave their little parties in the Temple they 
generally provided beef and porter, to which every 
guest, in the same spirit of unaffected simplicity, 
helped himself according to his fancy. 

Yet Charles Lamb was an epicure in his eating 
as he was in his reading, and he considered cookery 
as one of the fine arts. To him eating and drinking 
were mental as well as physical enjoyments, for he 
ate with his brains as well as with his mouth. When 



350 GOOD CHEER 

invited to dine with his friends he liked to know, 
as Swift did, the bill of the company as well as 
the bill of fare, for " good company makes good 
food, and there is no sauce like brain sauce." 

Pope's physical feebleness compelled him to be 
extremely careful as to his regimen. " Two bites 
and a sup " more than his stint would cost him 
more suffering than most men would endure after 
a regular debauch. Yet he was fond of highly 
seasoned dishes, and liked his friends to send him 
delicacies. A dish of lampreys, though it invariably, 
stung the Wasp of Twickenham, was one from which 
he was unable to refrain. 

Dean Swift suffered from chronic indigestion, 
brought on, it is said, by a surfeit of fruit, though 
a more improbable tause could scarcely be assigned. 
It certainly had the effect of keeping him away 
from the excesses of the table, and his solitary meals 
in Dublin were of the most sim'ple description ; his 
repast was, often enough, mutton -pie and half a 
pint of wine, for example. 

The author of " The Rambler " used to make 
inarticulate animal noises over his favourite food ; 
it tnight be rude to designate them as grunts oi 
satisfaction. 

Byron had fits of intemperance, generally followed 
by a strict regimen of rice, vinegar, and water. He 
had a. dread of getting fat, and always preferred 
simple food. On taking up his residence in Greece 
he left off all flesh food, and lived chiefly on toast, 
cheese, vegetables, olives, and light wine. 

Shelley was careless about his meals, and never 
could understand why people wanted more than plain 
bread. His wife often sent food to his study, which 
he almost as frequently forgot to eat, and coming 
out of the room would, in his abstraction, inquire, 
" Mary, have I dined? " 



DIET AND HEALTH, TASTES AND TRAITS 351 

Sir Isaac Newton was another who, in his pre- 
occupation, could not always remember whether he 
had dined or not. A friend once played a joke upon 
him by eating a chicken which was waiting for the 
philosopher and leaving the bones on the plate. 
iWhen Newton came into the room he was quite 
unconscious of the fact that he had not dined, much 
to his friend's amusement. 

The gustatory preference is sometimes strong in 
death. It is an historical fact that the last words 
of the great Pitt weife not — as popular tradition 
delights to recount — " Oh 1 my country I How I 
leave my country 1 " but " I think I could eat one 
of Bellamy's mince-pies." 



XXXI 

FOOD ADULTERATION 

Fastidious ignorance — Eighteenth-century adulteration — ^Town v. 
country supplies — The " tea-leafer " — Modern adulteration — 
And its handmaiden, Chemical Science. 

Fastidious eaters should be entirely ignorant of 
the origin of the viands they consume, like the lady 
who preferred her milk from a nice clean shop, not 
from a dirty cow. This is the ignorance which 
gives peace of mind and protects from qualms ; also 
it encourages the food adulterator. 

In the days of the powdered wig and brocaded 
coat the artificiality of town life was so marked 
that the eighteenth-century novelist is constrained 
to make his hero prefer the genuine delights of 
his country seat to the adulterated pleasures of his 
town house. In a letter to a friend he dwells quite 
lovingly on his many country comforts. 

At his ancestral hall he drinks the virgin lymph, 
pure and crystalline, as it gushes from the rock, or 
the sparkling beverage, home-brewed from malt of 
his own making ; or he indulges in cider, which 
his own orchard affords, or in claret of the best 
growth, imported by himself. His bread, sweet and 
nourishing, is made from his oiwn wheat, ground in 
his own mill, baked in his own oven. His table is, 
in a very large measure, furnished from his own land. 
He eats his own five-year-old mutton, mountain-fed. 



FOOD ADULTERATION 353 

and fit to vie with venison in ju'ice and flavour ; 
his own delicious veal, which, fattened on nothing 
but the mother's milk, fills the dish with gravy ; 
his own barn-door-fed poultry, uncooped and there- 
fore full-flavoured ; rabbits panting from the warren, 
game straight from the moors, and trout and salmon 
struggling from the stream ; oysters he gets direct 
from their native banks, herrings and other sea fish 
a few hours after they are taken. All his salads, 
roots, and pot-herbs are gathered fresh from his 
own garden, as are the good English fruits for his 
dessert. " My dairy," writes this enthusiastic country 
gentleman, " flows with nectareous tides of milk and 
cream, from whence we derive abimdance of excel- 
lent butter, curds, and cheese ; and the refuse fattens 
my pigs that are destined for hams and bacon." 

With these homely delights of country life he 
contrasts the supplies sent to his London table ; 
water, the mawkish contents of an open aqueduct ; 
wine balderdashed with cider, corn -spirit, and the 
juice of sloes ; bread composed of chalk, alum, and 
bone-ashes, which are whiter than the meal of corn, 
but unwholesome and deleterious ; veal bleached 
by repeated bleedings and other villainous arts till 
it is devoid of all taste, savour, and nourishment. 
And as the natural colour has been discharged from 
bread, butcher's meat, and poultry, so has the 
natural complexion been discharged from the pot- 
herbs, even to the hazard of the eaters' lives, stale 
greens being boiled with brass halfpence to improve 
their colour. The fish, having been brought a 
hundred miles or so by land carriage, often salutes 
the nose and turns the stomach ere it is placed 
on the table ; and as to oysters, though the right 
Colchester sort be kept in slime-pits occasionally 
overflowed by the sea, the green colour so much 
admired by the voluptuaries of the metropolis he 

23 



354 GOOD CHEER 

declares to be occasioned by the vitriolic scum 
which rises on the surface of the stagnant and 
stinking water. 

And so he runs on, concluding a catalogue of 
London's almost unspeakable abominations with 
" beer guiltless of hops and malt " ; and " butter 
manufactured from candle-grease and kitchen-stuff." 

And in all this, be it remembered, the demon 
Adulteration had not then received the assistance 
of its modem handmaiden. Chemical Science. 

A curious case of adulteration was revealed in 
evidence given in court a century ago, which dis- 
covered that many persons made a living by picking 
sloe-leaves and whitethorn-leaves in the fields near 
Camberwell, and selling them to a local cowkeeper 
for a penny a pound. One man said he picked 
from fifty to sixty poimds a day, and always foimd 
a market for them. The leaves were subsequently 
sold to a wholesale merchant, who could obtain as 
much as 8s. a poimd for them under the guise of 
tea. The merchant was prosecuted and fined, not 
for adulteration, but for defrauding the Revenue. 
And the " tea-leafer " is still the slang name for 
the petty thief. 

Adulteration is an ancient crime ; and when it 
deteriorates the food of the people there is no greater 
iniquity. It is impossible for a man to be guilty 
of adulteration and remain an honest man. The 
serious evils which arise from such pernicious 
practices cannot be discussed here ; they make for 
dishonesty, create widespread distrustfuhiess, lower 
comtnercial integrity, and, if generally, prevalent, 
might lower the health and vitality of a whole nation. 

Although the law takes cognisance of such delin- 
quencies and imposes heavy penalties, the evil cannot 
be entirely eradicated. There is always with us a 
lurking suspicion of our bread being adulterated with 



FOOD ADULTERATION 355 

potatoes, and our butter with common fat. iWe 
know the ingenuity of the adulterator substitutes 
chicory for coffee, sloe or hawthorn-leaves for tea, 
water for milk, and starch for sugar. Our pepper 
may, for all we know, contain pea-flour and our 
mustard turmeric. It is common knowledge that 
there are cheap ingredients used to impart colour, 
smell, flavour, or pungency, or any other valued 
property as may be required. 

The resources of science have been ransacked to 
cheapen and adulterate practically every foodstuff 
that is consumed in large quantities. This form of 
villainy has been practised to an extent that is 
scarcely credible ; in many cases it is only the expert 
or the analyst who can distinguish between the 
genuine and the sophisticated article. 



XXXII 

HOSPITALITY 

Sacredness of hospitality — Stealing for a guest's support — Reciprocal 
hospitality — Tessera hospitalis of the Latins — Caligula's outrage 
on hospitality — Unsocial eating conventions — ^The entertain- 
ment — Consulting diverse tastes — The company — Select and 
not too numerous — ■mpnf E .dr ess — Precedence — "The chief 
seats "^Roman lectus tricliniarius — Rule of precedence for 
Khans and Highland chiefs — ^A princely dismissal of guests — 
Medieval salt-vat — Above and below the salt — " Fun " and 
diversions at dinner — Processions — Tournaments — Souvenir 
gifts — Jocular dishes — Custard baths for jesters — A pretty 
Italian conceit — English„hospitality discredited in eighteenth 
century — How to receive unwelcome guests — Overstrained 
poUteness of vulgar hosts. "* 

To obligation has been considered among the nations 
/of the earth, from the ancient Greeks to the Arabs 
(of the desert, more sacred and inviolable than that 
of hospitality. To be admitted to partake of a man's 
salt, to break bread with him, to go through any 
form of eating with him has everywhere entitled the 
guest, though he were elsewhere, 'and under other 
circumstances, the deadliest of foes, to the for- 
bearance and protection of the host. 

A Persian nobleman was sitting in his garden one 
day when a man prostrated himself before him and 
implored protection from the rabble. The noble- 
man gave him the remainder of a peach which he 
was eating, and when the incensed multitude arrived, 

356 



HOSPITALITY 357 

and declared that the man had slain the only son 
of the nobleman, the heartbroken father replied,% 
" We have eaten together ; go in peace," and would 
not allow the murderer to be punished. 

In the Europe of the Middle Ages hospitality 
flourished most when intercourse among men was 
least considerable. After the master of the house 
and the stranger, each with a foot on the opposite 
side of the threshold, had sworn that neither would 
harm the other, the sanctity of the hospitality was 
considered inviolate — iriHeeSCTt ""was"' ho crime for 
the host to go out and steal for the support of the 
guest who had entered within his gates. 

A Cochin-Chinese traveller who has not sufficient 
to defray his expenses at an inn enters the first 
house of the village he arrives at, where he waits 
for the hour of dinner, takes his part with the family, j 
and goes away when he thinks proper, without , 
speaking a word or any person asking him a single 
question. 

It may not be out of place to mention here that 
pleasing custom of reciprocal hospitality between 
families which was fostered in ancient Greece. A 
mark or tally, generally of lead, was cut in halves ; 
one half was kept by the host, and the other by 
the person whom he had entertained. By means of 
this mark of hospitality regard was cemented and 
friendship established, which tended to make the 
hospitality not only reciprocal but hereditary. This 
rhark or symbol was equivalent to the tessera 
hospitalis of the Latins. Even in this country 
travelling would have been difficult in olden times, 
indeed, almost impracticable, but for the habitual 
exercise of hospitality extended to all wayfarers. 

Only a human monster could outrage the sacred 
laws of hospitality as did the Roman Emperor 
Caligula, who among his many mad freaks con- 



358 GOOD CHEER 

structed a bridge of boats between Baiae and Puteoli, 
a distance of three miles, and after covering it with 
earth built houses upon it. .When it was finished 
he gave a splendid banquet in the middle of the 
bridge, and concluded the entertainment by throwing 
a ^umber of his guests into the sea to drown. 
, But here it is not the moral aspect of hospitality 
/which has to be considered so much as the methods 
by which it has displayed itself. No sodial con- 
vention, no form of courtesy, better established a 
good relationship between man and man than the 
invitation given by one, and the acceptance of it 
by the other, to eat together. 

iWith us eating together is regarded as the highest 
mark of companionship. But eating customs vary 
greatly in different parts of the world. The caste 
customs of India are well known. The Maldivian 
islanders eat alone, so do the Otaheiteans ; the 
former seemingly from some misanthropical reason, 
perhaps ideas of witchcraft. The latter, however, 
are naturally sociable. Yet at the hour of repast 
the members of each family divide — two brothers, 
two sisters, even husband and wife, father and 
mother place themselves at a distance of two or 
three yards from one another, turn their backs, and 
take their meals in profound silence. Such customs 
may not improbably have come down from the very 
earliest periods of society, when the savage, fearing 
that one stronger than himself might ravish his meal 
from him, concealed himself to eat. 

The islanders of the Philippines, on the other 
hand, are so sociable that when one finds himself 
alone at mealtimes he runs until he meets with one 
to join him, and however keen his appetite may 
be, declines to satisfy it without a guest. 

Among the American Red Indians the host is 
continually on the watch to solicit his guests to eat. 



HOSPITALITY 359 

but touches nothing himself. In Kamschatka the 
height of hospitality consists 'in heating the cabin 
to an intolerable degree ; the meaning of this is said 
to be a test of the endurance to which the friendship 
between host and guest may be put. 

In the making of a feast the greatest, if not 
the first, consideration concerns itself with the nature 
of the entertainment. In hospitality the will is the 
chief thing, said the ancients. There is "the feast 
of fat things," " the feast of reason with the flow 
of soul," and the perpetual feast of nectared sweets 

"Where no crude surfeit reigns." 

Small cheer and great welcome make a merry 
feast, says the poet. And every guest should be 
equally welcome. 

" A feast not profuse but elegant ; more oi salt 
[refinement] than of expense " was the etiquette of 
hospitality practised by the ancients and admired 
by Montaigne. 

The true essentials of a feast, says Oliver Wendell 
Holmes, are only " fun and feed." The latter, after 
all, is an essential element, for no one car^ 

"Cloy the hungry edge of appetite 
By bare imagination of a feast." 

In the selection ci|f dishes the most hospitable of 
hosts have sometimes failed to please, through labour- 
ing under the delusion that the viands they like 
best themselves are sure to win the approbation of 
their guests. It is well to remember that tastes 
are diverse — chacun d son. goM. An anecdote of 
Scott describes the uneasiness of the company once 
assembled round his hospitable board at the approach 
of an overkept haunch of venison ; Sir Walter, who 
was fond of the dish, had very little sense of smell, 
and was entirely imconscious of anything wrong. 



360 GOOD CHEER 

The first time Byron dined with Moore and Rogers 
at the table of the latter, his host was mortified 
to find there was nothing his noble guest could eat 
or drink, owing to his exaggerated dread of corpu- 
lency. He asked for biscuits and soda-water, but 
these had not been included in the menu ; and 
eventually he made his dinner — ^and a hearty one — 
off potatoes and vinegar ! 

The eccentric dinner given by Dean Swift illus- 
trates the sweet reasonableness of allowing the guest 
to suit his own taste. 

The Dean on one occasion invited to dinner several 
of the first noblemen and gentlemen in Dublin, who, 
knowing his punctuality, assembled at the appointed 
time to a minute. A servant announced the dinner, 
and the Dean led the way to the dining-room. To 
each chair was a servant, a bottle of wine, a roll, 
and an inverted plate. On taking his seat the Dean 
desired his guests to arrange themselves according 
to their own ideas of precedence and fall to. The 
company were astonished to find the table without 
a dish or any provisions. The Lord Chancellor, 
who was present, said, " Mr. Dean, we do not see 
the joke." " Then I will show you," answered Swift, 
turning up his plate, under which was a half-crown 
and a bill of fare from a neighbouring tavern. 
" Here, sir," said he to his servant, " bring me a 
plate of goose." The company caught the idea, 
and each man sent his plate and half-crown. 

Covers with anything that the appetites of the 
moment dictated soon appeared. The novelty, the 
peculiarity of the manner, and the unexpected circum- 
stances altogether excited the plaudits of the noble 
guests, who declared themselves particularly gratified 
by the Dean's entertainment. 

The Russians have a peculiar custom at dinner, 
which is without parallel in the rest of Europe. 



HOSPITALITY 361 

The dishes and the wines are made to correspond 
in gradation with the rank and condition of the 
guests. 

The arrangement of a menu is always a work 
of taste and nice discrimination. But in striving 
after novelty some recent efforts in this direction 
have been fanciful, not to say freakish. Suppose the 
hostess to be named Lavinia ; in arranging for the 
entertainment of a few of her lady friends, she will 
not only have her table decorations lavender, in 
keeping with her name, but will even strive after 
lavender -coloured food, as thus : — 

Red Cabbage Soup. 

Sole with Lavender Sauce. 

Cutlets (with Mauve Frills). 

Salad, Garnished with Fresh Violets. 

Violet Souffle. Prune Jelly. 

Cheese Straws. 

Lavender Ice. 

H Coffee. 

The second consideration, if not, indeed, the first, 
is the company. Epicurus maintained that you 
should rather have regard to the company with whom 
you eat and drink than to what you eat and drink. 
This has been crystallised into the terse English 
proverb, " The company makes the feast." 

Plutarch says : " LucuUus prided himself upon 
the luxury of his feasts. On one occasion, when he 
happened to sup alone, the meal being less magnifi- 
cent than usual, he rebuked his servant, saying, ' Did 
you not know that this evening LucuUus sups with 
LucuUus? ' " In this case the company was select — 
in every case it should be carefully selected. The 
harmony of the entertainment may be spoilt by one 
discordant note. 

The elegant Romans declared that the company 
a,t a repast should not consist of less in number than 



362 GOOD CHEER 

the Graces, nor of more than the Muses. The 
favourite number for a dinner-party was seven, and 
a fashionable Roman meeting a friend would regret 
his inability to invite him to dinner " because my 
number is complete." 

Dr. William King, in his "Art of Cookery," 
says : — 

" Crowd not your table ; let your number be 
Not more than seven, and never less than three." 

The great dramatist suggests six in the passage — 
"Three and three, we'll hold a feast in great solemnity." 

The solemnity of the dinner ceremonial, which is 
observed with the most elaborate of the day's gas- 
tronomical rituals, has demanded the donning of a 
special sacrificial robe — the dinner dress — ^the evening 
dress of modern society. It is due to a good dinner 
to approach it with reverence. 

Among the Romans a special dress was worn at 
table, consisting of a loose robe of light texture, 
generally white, and differing altogether from the 
dress in use on other occasions. Cicero accused 
Valerius as if it were a crime that he had appeared 
at an entertainment dressed in black, although it 
was at the funeral of a lady, and compared him to 
a fury whose presence spread dismay among the 
assembly. The guests were sometimes supplied with 
these robes by the master of the house. The sandals 
were taken off lest they should soil the costly 
cushions, and the feet were covered with slippers, or 
not unfrequently left naked. 

Precedence at table has always been a matter of 
delicacy and importance. Christ enforced His lesson 
on humility by allusion to those who " chose out the 
chief room " at a, feast, as is recorded in St. 



HOSPITALITY 



363 



Luke xiv. The " chief places " at table to which 
our Lord thus alludes are those numbered 2, 5, and 
8 in the diagram :— 

Arrangement of the Triclinal Depth or Couches 
FOR Three. 





6 


S 


4 




7 


Medius. 

CO 

" i 


3 


8 


2 


9 


I 



The lectus tricliniarius or dining-bed of the 
Romans was four or five feet high, arranged round 
a square table on three of its sides, the fourth being 
left open for the convenience of the servitors. These 
beds seem to have been introduced from Carthage 
and were unknown before the second Punic War, the 
Romans till then having been content with the plain 
wooden benches as were used by the heroes of 
Homer. For the ladies it did not at first seem con- 
sistent with their modesty to adopt the innovation, 
and it was not till the time of the Caesars that they 
also took to the reclining position at meals. The 
youths, too, who had not yet put on the toga virilis 
were long kept to the ancient discipline ; when 
allowed to come to table they sat on the edge of the 
beds of their nearest relatives. But gradually all 
simplicity gave way to extravagant luxuriousness . 
The beds in time came to be adorned with plates 
of silver, and covered with the softest mats and 
richest counterpanes . Heliogabalus had beds of solid 
silver, but Pompey went still further, and on his 
third triumph brought in beds of gold. 

The seating of guests at table is always a nice 



364 GOOD CHEER 

point, and one that has often caused considerable 
heart-burning. An anecdote is related of Macdonald, 
" Lord of the Isles," who, finding himself late at a 
vice-regal dinner in Dublin, sat himself down at the 
foot of the table, near the door. The Lord Lieu- 
tenant, upon observing this, invited him to sit beside 
him. "What says the carle?" asked the Scottish 
chieftain, who spoke but little English. On being 
told he was bidden to the head of the table, he 
replied, " Tell the carle that wherever the Macdonald 
sits, that's the head of the table." Many hosts and 
hostesses would be relieved to have the question of 
precedence settled in so ready and satisfactory a 
manner. 

There are individuals, it will be seen, who, not 
being troubled by any disconcerting sense of modesty, 
make their own table of precedence and remain satis- 
fied with it. 

If we are to believe old travellers' tales, the Kham 
of the Tartars, who had not a house to dwell in, 
who subsisted by rapine, and lived on mare's milk 
and horseflesh, was wont every day after his repast 
to cause a herald to proclaim that " the Kham 
having dined, all other princes, potentates, and great 
ones of the earth may now go to dinner I " 

A pleasant method of directing guests to their 
seats was that employed at the marriage of the 
Grand Constable of Naples in 1589. On the plates 
there were little figures of boys holding shields on 
which were emblazoned the arms of those invited. 
The elegance of an Italian banquet of the renaissance 
period was only exceeded by its costliness. 

For the pleasant dispersal of guests what could 
be more royally conceived than that put into practice 
at the entertainment by the Cardinal of Ferrara to 
the Duke of Chartres in the sixteenth century? 
When the banquet, which had been of the most 



HOSPITALITY 365 

sumptuous character, was concluded, a silver boat 
was brought in containing necklaces, bracelets, 
earrings, perfumed gloves, and valuable trinkets of 
various kinds. These were distributed to the ladies, 
and then four and twenty pipers comtnenced to play, 
escorting the company to their respective homes, 
accompanied by servants in gorgeous liveries and 
bearing torches. 

As previously mentioned, it was a medieval custom 
in that period of boundless hospitality to mark the 
difference between the gentle and the simple at table ■^- 
by the position of the salt. 

"Thou art a carle mean of degree, 
Ye salte yt doth stande twain me and thee ; 
But an thou hadst been of ana gentyl strayne, 
I would have bitten my gante again." 

The salt-vat, or salt-foot, was a massive piece of 
plate, and its use was common to England, Scotland, \ 
and France ; in each country the distinction of seats t 
in relation to its position was regarded as an impor- > 
tant matter in table etiquette. When a man who 1 
had once sat below the salt Was invited to a seat 
above it, that was an unequivocal recognition of his | 
improved social status. This was noticed by our / 
early dramatists. And one of our earliest satirists, 
Bishop Hall, makes the following allusion : — 

"A gentle squire would gladly entertaine 
Into his house somejtrencher chaplaine, 
Some willing man^hat might instruct his sons, 
And that would stand to good conditions : 
First, that he lie upon the truckle bed 
Whiles his young master lieth o'er his head ; 
Second, that he do on no default 
Ever presume to sit above the salt." 

The salt -holder or salt-cellar (" cellar " is prob- 
ably a corruption of sall-ex) was of considerable size. 



366 GOOD CHEER 

and came to be made of precious metal, not infre- 
quently in some fanciful device as a ship, or a chariot 
on wheels, to enable it to be passed up and down 
the table. Salt-spoons were entirely unknown. 

The wine most frequently circulated only above 
the salt, and the dishes below it were invariably of 
a coarser kind than those served at the top table. 

The banquet having been decided upon, no problem 
has exercised the minds of the hospitably inclined 
more than that of the nature of the entertainment 
to be provided — the " fun " part of it, as " The 
Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table " calls it. 

The " diversion " sometimes accompanied the 
meal, as when minstrels in the gallery were wont to 
discourse sweet music ; sometimes it followed im- 
mediately after the feast, forming an after-part to 
the entertainment. 

In olden times banquets were not only expensive, 
but cumbrous in their ceremonial — the processions, 
to wit, which prolonged the time spent at table. 
As we have seen, the boar's head was always brought 
in by a procession of domestics, and the peacock 
by a contingent of fair dames, because the peacock 
was " the food of lovers and the meat of lords." 

Edward III. dispensed a romantic hospitality, 
wherein eating and drinking were agreeably inter- 
mingled with tournaments and love-making ; but it 
was under his successor, Richard II., that the magnifi- 
cent prodigality of royal entertainments rose to its 
greatest height. 

In those days of chivalry it was sometimes a costly 
business to entertain a few friends. They were not 
always merely content to eat and drink with their 
host ; if the banquet partook of a ceremonial 
character, they expected to carry away some souvenir 
of a valuable and substsmtial character (as the 
Americans do at the present day). They looked 



HOSPITALITY 367 

forward with a keen financial appetite to gifts of 
silver vessels from the table, or to special gifts such 
as falcons, or coats of mail, or goodly horses. 

In the same rude age a heavy wit devised such 
preposterous things as jocular dishes for the enter- 
tainment of guests. According to " The Court and 
Kitchen of Elizabeth Cromwell," the most scurrilous 
of cookery-books, some dishes were formerly brought 
to table " more for sport than for belly timber." 
The animated pie of the nursery rh5mie, with its 
" four and twenty blackbirds," was by no means 
an unknown dish. And most readers will recall that 
when Charles I. and his Queen were entertained by 
Buckingham at Burleigh -on -the-Hill, in 1630, the 
noted Court dwarf, Jeffrey Hudson, was presented to 
the (Queen served in a pie. 

A far more absurd method of setting on " some 
barren spectators to laugh," as Hamlet hath it, was 
sometimes practised at the (pity feasts of the sixteenth 
century. An immense vessel, ibroad and deep, was 
filled with custard and placed in the middle of the 
table. In the midst of the feast, when all the guests 
were busily engaged in discussing the viands, a jester 
would suddenly enter the room, and almost before 
any one was aware of his presence, would take a 
flying leap over their heads and plunge into the 
quivering mass of custard, to the intense amusement 
of all, except, of course, those near enough to be 
bespattered with the sticky mess. 

Allusion to this silly conceit is made by Ben 
Jonson in " The Devil is an Ass " : — 



"He may perhaps, in tail of Sheriff's dinner, 
Skip with a Rhime o' th' table from New Nothing, 
And take his Almaine leap into a custard, 
Shall make my Lady Mayoress and her sisters 
Laugh all their hoods over their shoulders." 



368 GOOD CHEEE 

Did the host apologise to those of his unfortunate 
guests who suffered, in comfort or in costume, from 
this clownish piece of jocularity? Was it accounted 
one of those " untoward incidents " which are, 
according to Horace, " wont to bring out the • 
resources, of the host"? Or was it argued that 
such buffoonery was at least preferable to the savagery 
by which, in an earlier age, that mad tyrant Caligula 
amused himself While taking l^is meals — the torturing 
to death of a satisfying number of his fellow- 
creatures? It is sometimes difficult to fathom the 
extravagances of which the human mind is capable. 

Here is a pretty conceit for a grand entertainment 
invented by Cervio, the famous Italian authority of 
the sixteenth century : — 

Several small tables should be placed together on strong tressels 
so as to form one long one, at which only ladies are to sit. Under 
the table is to be a trellis covered with odoriferous herbs, flowers, 
and fruits according to the season, forming a square in the centre 
of which is a tank filled with fishes, tortoises, and other swimming 
creatures. Grass is to be laid round the pond, with boughs stuck 
into it to represent trees, amongst which are to be rabbits, leverets, 
guinea-pigs, and various birds, tied with ribbons of divers colours, 
so that the garden may have a wild and animated appearance. To 
the trees are to be hung boxes of sugar-plums, nosegays, gloves, and 
other presents for the ladies, from the giver of the banquet. The 
tables, which are to be gilt and adorned with silk, are then to be 
covered with a very large, wide, and richly-embroidered table-cloth, 
which, falling on all sides to the ground, must conceal all that is 
beneath them. At the end of the repast the attendants shall quickly 
carry the tables away, lifting them over the heads of the ladies, 
taking care not to derange their head-dresses. The ladies will then 
find themselves beside the garden and lake, and each one will take a 
box of comfits, a small animal or bird, and a small net being handed 
to her, she can also, to her delight and amusement, catch the fish. 

A Venetian traveller who visited England in the 
early Tudor period remarks on the peculiar, the 
almost incredible courtesy of the English towards 
strangers. The habit of feasting and being feasted 




EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY ENGLISH KITCHEN 

From Lebault's " La Table et le Repas." 

{By permission of M. Lucien Laveiir.) 



HOSPITALITY 369 

—the dinners of parade which the modern satirist 
has ridiculed among the follies of vulgar ostenta- 
tion—seems to have been then a part of the English 
character. This observer of our insular manners 
says : " They think that no greater honour can be 
conferred or received than to invite others to eat 
with them, and they would sooner give five or six 
ducats to provide an entertainment for a person than 
a groat to assist him in any distress." 

Smollett, in his " Humphry Clinker," compares 
the hospitality of the English, in the eighteenth 
century, very imfavourably with that of continental 
nations : — 

" Certain it is [he says] we are generally looked on by foreigners 
as a people totally destitute of this virtue ; and I never was in any 
country abroad where I did not meet with persons of distinction 
who complained of having been inhospitably used in Great Britain. 
A gentleman of France, Italy, or Germany, who has entertained and 
lodged an Englishman at his house, when he afterwards meets with 
his guest in London, is asked to dinner at the 'Saracen's Head,' the 
'Turk's Head,' the 'Boar's Head,' or the 'Bear,' eats raw beef and 
butter, drinks execrable port, and is allowed to pay his share of the 
reckoning." 

The eighteenth-century manners of the English^j 
are not to be commended. Surely their hospitality, j 
like their cookery^ must have deteriorated. 

Since that period, certainly, Englishmen have 
generally prided themselves on the heartiness of their 
welcome and the open-handed profusion which 
characterises their hospitality. Nor have the sister 
kingdoms been behindhand in winning encomiums 
for the same social virtues. Adam Sedgwick abso- 
lutely revelled in the abundance of Edinburgh break- 
fasts, and was supremely comfortable under the spell 
of Irish hospitality, as his memoirs declare. It is 
only on such happy occasions that the true wine of 
life is met with. 

24 



370 GOOD CHEER 

M The art of entertaining unwelcome visitors, whose 
acquaintance is undesired, is also graphically por- 
trayed by Smollett. According to this mirror of 
his age, even the dining-room, which is described 
as a large Gothic parlour, is chilly with its marble- 
paved floor and recently-lit fire ; everything presents 
an aspect that is purposely cheerless and comfortless. 
Then the repast is described as consisting of a parcel 
of kickshaws, contrived by a French cook, without 
one substantial article adapted to the satisfaction of 
an English appetite : — 

" The pottage was little better than bread soaked in dish-washings, 
lukewarm ; the ragouts looked as if they had been once eaten and 
half -digested ; the fricassees were involved in a nasty yellow 
poultice ; and the rotis were scorched and stinking, for the honour 
of the f umet ; the dessert consisted of faded fruit and iced froth ; ■ 
the table beer was sour, the water foul, and the wine vapid ; but 
there was a parade of plate and china, and a powdered lackey 
stood behind every chair, except those of the master and mistress of 
the house, who were served by two valets dressed like gentlemen." 

Such was the welcome, d la mode, of the unwel- 
come 1 

On the other hand^ the overstrained politeness of 
vulgar hospitality is troimced in the Toiler. The 
civility intended to make us easy is shovm to fetter 
and trammel us. A few excerpts will expose the 
irksomeness of it all. 

" As soon as I entered the parlour they put me into the great 
chair that stood by a huge fire, and kept me there by force, until I 
was about stifled." 

" In the meantime, the good lady whispered her eldest daughter, 
and sUpped a key into her hand. The girl returned instantly with 
a beer-glass half full of aqua mirabilis and sirup of gillyflowers." 

Having been compelled against his inclination to 
drink it off, 

" when dinner was brought in, I had a mind to sit at a distance from 
the fire ; but they told me it was as much as my life was worth, and 



/ 



HOSPITALITY 371 

set me with my back just against it. Although my appetite was 
quite gone I resolved to force down as much as I could, and desired 
the leg of a pullet.' 'Indeed, Mr. Bickerstaff,' says the lady, 'you 
must eat a wing to oblige me,' and so put a couple on my plate. I 
was peFsecuted at this rate during the whole meal." 

And so on, till we are shown all the absurdities 
which proceed, not from an ill intention but from 
a wrong judgment of complaisance, and all the dis- 
comforts to which a guest may be subjected by 
wrong-headed hosts. 



XXXIII 
ARISTOLOGY 

Art of dining — The accomplished host — Table talk — The diner-out 
— The intellectual feast — Rationale of the menu — The order of 
the dishes — Supernumerary courses — The appropriate wines — 
The bon vivant of the old school — His prodigality in wines — 
The coffee and tobacco — The dinner of parade. 

Arist,qlogy, or the art of dining, takes cognisance of 
the selection of the food, the skill with which it is 
prepared, and the tastefulness of the surroundings 
in which the meal is served. The philosophy of 
aristology also includes a knowledge of the main 
principles on which food should be selected in rela- 
tion to nourishment and health, and has always suffi- 
cient acquaintance with the precepts of the kitchen 
to obviate any violence being done them. Such 
knowledge put to practical use may ensure the 
material success of a dinner. 

' The success of a dinner from the intellectual point 

of view depends on the giver's skill as a host, on the 

/ dexterity with which he assorts and blends his guests, 

/ on the tact with which he affords each an opportunity 

! of scintillating in his turn. A dirmer of stalled herbs, 

with wise and witty talk, felicitously seasoned pnd 

genially mixed, is superior to anything ever prepared 

by a Soyer or served at the Carlton or Delmonico's. 

The breakfasts which were given by Rogers the 

banker-poet were as perfect in this respect as his 

dinners ; delightful intellectual tourneys, with the 

372 



ARI8T0L0GY 373 

collision of quick imaginations, and the thrust, parry, 
and return of well-equipped minds — flashes of 
epigram, closely reasoned arguments, apt quotations, 
and happily-told tales, all iblended in a stream of 
sparkling conversation. 

The dinner which evaporates in whispers to next- 
door neighbours may be accounted a miserable 
failure. 

The table should sparkle with wit — the guests 
should crack jokes as they crack the walnuts, and 
the fun should flow faster than the wine. A 
boisterous gaiety, however, is unseemly — as it has 
been neatly said, flashes pi silence should punctuate 
the flashes of wit. 

There are people, of course, who prefer to dine 
with those who " have good glass, good china, and 
plenty of servants " ; but " there are others " — ^those 
who prefer companionable company to all the 
delicacies of the season, and a hostess like Madame 
Scarron, who made shift to satisfy her hungry guests 
and replace her missing releve 'with " another story." 
For this, after all, is the real' art of entertaining. 

The inveterate diner-out who is " worth his salt " 
is always an acquisition to the company — a. bright, 
chirrupy creature Who is never at a loss when the 
conversation flags, who is ready with some anecdote, 
reminiscence, or suggestive remark, which fans it 
immediately into flame again. Such were Tom 
Moore, the bard of Erin, and his equally amusing 
friend, Luttrell. The table talk which arrests the 
attention and gathers up the interest is generally 
that which is apropos, which is fitting to the time, 
place, or occasion ; for instance, the two following 
Amphitryonic anecdotes are illuminative of the 
subject in hand : — 

" Our first ' good story ' is that of a man who asked another to come 
and dine off boiled beef and potatoes with him. ' That I will/ he 



374 GOOD CHEER 

replies, ' and it's rather odd it should be exactly the same dinner I 
have at home myself — barring the beef.' " 

Here is the other story, which is of similar motif, 
but not of the same nationaUty : — 

"A man about town having been asked repeatedly to dinner by 
one whom he knew to be but a shabby Amphitryon, went at last, 
and found the dinner so meagre and bad that he was scarcely able 
to eat a bit. When the dishes were being removed the host said, 
' Well, now the ice is broken, I suppose you will ask me to dine 
with you some day.' 'Most willingly,' 'Name your day, then.' 
'Aujourd 'hui, par exemple,' answered the dinnerless guest." 

The ben trovato round the table should rival in 
piquancy the gustatory delig-hts upon it. In this 

J'rit let us consider the somatic side of the dinner. 
In the rationale of the menu, the soup comes first 
;ause it is aliment in a form 'which is most readily 
imilated ; in a minute or two after taking a clear 
ip the feeling of exhaustion disappears, and any 
latent ii'ritability soon begins to give way before 
a rising sense of good-fellowship round the table. 
The fish, generally easy of digestion, is well placed 
second. The third dish should consist of the chief 
meat, the joint if desired, for this is undoubtedly 
the place for it if a substantial meal is required. 
Then the chief nutritious supply having been afforded 
to the system, the more delicate dishes, eaten in 
smaller quantity, should follow in an order which 
makes one complementary of or introductory to the 
next. 

If a joint is not presented, a substantial entrie— 
cutlets, or sweetbreads, or something of this nature, 
daintily cooked and w«ll garnished^— may be found 
acceptable. Next the well-roaste^ bird, game or 
poultry, accompanied or followed l^i^^i^i^lad ; and 
after this '(or, if preferred, before the roast) a dish 
of choice vegetables worthy of beihg served alone. 



/ 



ARISTOLOGY 375 

Then one light, simple sweet for those who take 
it, and a slight savoury or a n^orsel of cheese should 
complete the repast. 

"Lo, as at English feasts, so I regreet 
The daintest last, to make the end most sweet." 

Shakespeare notes also that 'we prepare to make 
an end of the dinner when " there's pippins and 
cheese to come." 

Dessert is a matter of individual taste. As to\ 
Jiors d'ceuvres, an eminent authority is strongly of | 
opinion that as a stimulant to the appetite they are 
unnatural and prejudicial. He makes one exception 
in favour of the oyster — a. native production — " in 
itself a simple service of exquisite quality, brought 
to table with the attendant graces of mild and 
delicate vinegar or lemon-juice, brown bread and 
butter, and a glass of light Chablis for those who 
take it ; the half-dozen natives occupying the hollow 
shells, and, bathed in their own liquor, hold rank 
of a very different kind to that of the miscellaneous 
assortment of tit -bits which are usually demanded by 
foreign gastronomic taste." Any one endowed with 
a fairly keen appetite is independent of " whets "— s- 
the invention of idle men who have lunched too 
heavily. 

There are persons of capricious appetite who 
could make a full meal of these adventitious 
appetisers ,• Rossini even found inspiration in them, 
for he composed a phantasy on the " Four Hors 
d'CEuvres " (butter, radishes, anchovies, and pickled 
glierkins), and, for the matter of that, a similar trifle 
on " Les Quatres Mendiants " (almonds, raisins, figs, 
and filberts^ijf The queer name of " the four 
beggars "Jm^ given to these four items of dessert 
because they were generally on the table when the 
members of the mendicant friars came in to beg 



376 GOOD CHEER 

the remnants of the feast for the poor, perhaps aided 
by a fancied resemblance to the colours of the choir 
dresses of the respective orders — ^Dominican, Fran- 
ciscan, Carmelite, and Augustinian. 

By general gastronomic consent the usual order of 
wines at dinner is to offer a glass of light pale 
sherry or dry Sauteme after the soup ; a delicate 
Rhine wine if required after fish ; a glass of good 
Bordeaux with the joint of mutton ; the same, or dry 
Champagne, during the entries ; the best of red 
wines, Bordeaux or Burgundy, with the roast game. 
With the dessert a full-flavoured but matured 
Champagne or a liqueur may be served. 

This is the orthodox rule for a really good family 
meal. But the bon vivant does not restrict himself 
to so simple a list of dinner beverages as this. He 
will take Chablis with the oysters, sherry with soup, 
one (glass of good Rhine wine with the fish, 
Champagne with the entrees and removes, a choice 
claret or Burgundy with the roast, and with the 
dessert will wind up with one glass of glorious port, 
" king of wines." 

In the reign of Philistinism, which prevailed some 
seventy or eighty years ago, a host of the old school 
said to his guests at the outset of the dinner : " With 
the turtle there will be punch ; champagne and clarlet 
afterwards ; the two former I have ordered to be 
well iced. I shall permit no other wines, unless 
perchance a bottle or two of port, as I hold variety 
of wines to be a great mistake." 

In the days when the port -wine decanter circulated 
freely, and the " three-bottle man " was yet in the 
land, it is related that a genial old soul, being sur- 
prised one evening in his armchair some two or 
three hours after dinner, apologised by saying, 
" When one is alone, the bottle does come round so 
often." Another jovial gentleman, being asked on 



ARISTOLOGY 377 

a precisely similar occasion, " Wiiat I have you 
finished all the three bottles without assistance? " 
answered cheerfully, " Oh ! no ! I had the assistance 
of a bottle of Madeira." 

It must not be forgotten that both prudence and 
digestion dictate the wisdom of not mixing red and 
white wines, or indeed, any wines, at a meal. Wlhite 
wine should certainly never be taken after red. 
Whatever is drunk, however, should be of the choicest 
possible. 

The termination of the meal is marked by the 
serving of coffee and the indulgence in a smoke. 
The value of the latter consists in the fact that with 
the first whiff of its fragrance the palate ceases to 
demand either food or wine. 

With the smoke the power to appreciate good 
wine is lost. The use of coffee is almost symbolical 
of temperate habits ; on the Continent, and par- 
ticularly among the Mussulmans, the relationship 
between coffee and the cigarette or cigar is recog- 
nised to the fullest extent. 

Although the canons of the correct dining code 
demand that the releve must follow the fish, and the 
rot, as the term plainly indicates, be a " roast," served 
after the entrees^ the correct marshalling of the 
various dishes is often violated by dinner-givers ; 
and under a fine parade of terms, potages, poissons, 
releves, entrees, rots, and so forth, the classification 
has not been strictly adopted. 

Affectation and gastronomical humbug is displayed 
in that highly decorative style of serving dinners 
which includes such vanities as " rose-dyed paries " 
and the " flock of miniature geese floating in a pond 
of green aspic jelly." 

With more discerrunent — perhaps with a high pitch 
of refinement — ^the tendency now is towards the 
" little and good " rather than the profuse. 



378 GOOD CHEER 

In criticising, or rather admiring, a fine dinner 
which had been exquisitely prepared and faultlessly 
served, a great man once said, "To do justice to 
the science and research of a dinner so served would 
require a knowledge of the art equal to that which 
produced it." 

This chapter would perhaps be incomplete without 
the reminder that the confidences of the dinner -table 
are held^e inviolable — the Romans always placed 
a vase of roses in the centre of the table as the 
emblem of silence, to signify that what was heard 
sub rosa (" under the rose ") was not to be lightly 
repeated elsewhere. Cupid gave Harpocrates (the 
god of silence) a rose, to bribe him not to betray 
the amours of Venus. For this reason the ceilings 
of banquet -rooms are sometimes decorated with roses, 
as at Haddon Hall, Derbyshire. 




"A DOMESTIC SCKNK" 

From RadcHffe's "Domestic Cookei^" (1823), 

(Copy kindly lent by Frank Schloessei; Esq.) 



To face p. 379. 



XXXIV 

THE ESTHETICS OF THE DINNER-TABLE 

Eighteenth-century progress — ^Advent of earthenware and china — 
The serviette — Adornment a zest to appetite — Sumptuous tabl^' 
appointments — Ornate Italian and English examples — Exquisit|f 
Majolica services — Old Venetian table glass — Epergnes — Table- 
lamps — Table-cloths — Dining-table — Dining-chairs. 

By the end of the eighteenth century, owing to the 
greater travelling facilities offered by the fast coaches, 
many domestic comforts and conveniences began to 
make their appearance in the homes of well-to-do 
townspeople. Wooden trenchers and bowls gave way 
to earthenware dishes, and china tea-things wete seen 
everywhere. Some households boasted silver fork's, 
but the usual kind were of steel, some having three 
tines and some only two. This pattern of fork could 
not very well be used for conveying to the mOiUjh 
such viands as peas ; and so the table-knife which 
accompanied it always had a broad round end, which 
people found extremely handy for shovelling peas into 
the mouth, for catching up the gravy, on for per- 
forming those feats of table drill now regarded as 
vulgar. The simplicity of the table equipment less 
than a century ago is the paramount feature of the 
accompanying "Domestic Scene (1823)." 

Although families making a claim to be regarded 
as polite used hand-bells with which to summon the 

S79 



380 GOOD CHEER 

servants, plainer folk knocked on -the table with the 
handle of their knives for that purpose. 

The o risfin of the use of the dinner napkin, as 
we have seen (pp. 8 1 and'TS^^TiS"'*®®*'*'*^^ murk of 
past centuries ; the calling of it by, the French name, 
serviette, however, is a modem innovatiohT " TfiS' word 
probably is a perversion of the Italian satvieta^ " a 
napkin to save one's clothes from soiling." There 
are,' of course, various'"'Wa3fS' of "disposing one's 
serviette. It is related of Joseph, the famous chef, 
that seeing a gentleman seat himself at the restaurant 
table, and tuck the napkin well into his collar all 
round his neck, he went up to him and said, " Pardon, 
M'sieur, it is to dine with, not to be shaved I " 

The adornment of the table adds a zest to the appe- 
; tite . At a hanquet offered by Cardinal Campeggio to 
"the Emperor Charles V., on his entry into Rome in 
1536, the table was covered with four perfumed 
and richly embroidered table-cloths, upon which were 
placed twelve napkins of similar beauty. Between 
the courses at an Italian dinner of this period, the 
napkins, knives, forks, and spoons were changed, 
and perfumed water in silver-gilt basins was offered 
to the company to wash their hands. 

At a magnificent banquet given by the Duke of 
Mantua in 1581, the table was sumptuously decorated, 
and so arranged on a dais of four steps that the twelve 
guests and their host sat with their backs to the 
wall, each occupying a large Spanish chair. No 
servants or other persons were allowed on the opposite 
side of the table, in order not to interrupt the view 
of a second table placed in the middle of the room, 
at which sat one hundred ladies of the greatest 
beauty, all most splendidly attired. Marvellously 
embossed silver basins were used for the perfvuned 
water in which the diners washed their hands ; while 
the display of gold and silver plate, and of Venice 



ESTHETICS OF THE DINNER-TABLE 381 

glass on the sideboard, could not be exceeded for 
magnificence in the whole world. A large supply of 
drinking glasses was necessary, as it was the custom 
for the ladies to break their glasses after they had 
drimk, to show they were in a gay and mirthful 
mood. 

The noise caused by the conversation and laughter 
of these ladies was further increased by the music 
discoursed by four different bands, one in each corner 
of the noble hall in which the banquet was held. 

An idea of the nature and quality of old English 
table decorations may be obtained from Rollings - 
head's description of the gala table, when Henry 
VIII. banqueted the French ambassadors, in the 
tenth year of his reign : — 

"The King and his guests were served with two hundred and 
sixty dishes, and after that a voidee of spices, with sixty spice plates 
of silver and gilt, as great as men with ease might beare. This 
night the cupboard in the hall was of twelve stages, all plate of gold 
and no gilt plate." 

A " voidee " was a parting dish— the last course 
served. The cupboard of twelve stages was the 
table of degrees, described on p. 130. 

Scott in his " Kenilworth " gives a description of 
the banqueting-room at Cumnor Hall, specially con- 
verted by London workmen from a dilapidated 
monastic apartment to the semblance of a royal 
palace. The new furniture included richly carved 
chairs of ebony, with cushions of sky-blue velvet 
corresponding with the hangings which clothed the 
walls. The floor was covered with a Spanish foot- 
cloth or carpet, exquisitely designed in glowing 
colours. 

"The table, of old English oak, stood ready covered with the 
finest linen ; and a large portable court-cupboard was placed with 
the leaves of its embossed folding-doors displayed, showing the 



382 GOOD CHEER 

shelves within, decorated with a full display of plate and porcelain. 
In the midst of the table stood a salt-cellar of Italian workmanship 
— a beautiful and splendid piece of plate about two feet high, 
moulded into a representation of the giant Briareus, whose hundred 
hands of silver presented to the guests various sorts of spices or 
condiments, to season their food withal." 

Fortunes have been lavished on dinner and dessert 
services. Majolica ware was originally made by the 
Moors when they occupied Majorca, and it was ex- 
ported into Italy thence, and also from the potteries 
of the Spanish Arabs. In the middle of the fifteenth 
century the Italians began to make this beautiful 
ware for themselves ; the manufacturers of Faenza, 
Urbino, Castel-Durante, Gubbio, and Pesaro became 
famous for these iridescent plates. It is said that 
Raphael, when young, drew designs for this ware. 
At Gubbio, about 1498, flourished Maestro Giorgio, 
who had a monopoly of the famed ruby lustre, 
the secret of which is now lost. He improved the 
yellow lustre into the golden, and purified the 
ruby from its previous orange tone. Old Majolica 
plates and dishes are often adorned with classical 
or allegorical designs, the arms of Urbino, or the 
ducal coronets of the patrons for whom they were 
made. 

Much could be said concerning table-glass and 
drinking vessels. Claret and Burgundy should be 
drunk out of counterfeited crystal air -bubbles, while 
ale should be imbibed from metal-lidded stone-ware. 
Tokay should be drunk from a fragile glass. 

Old Venetian glass was seldom cut on the wheel, 
but given its beautiful curves by blowing only. 
Though thin, the vessels possessed extreme tenacity, 
and in the long, slender columns of their transparent 
stems appeared cross threads of an opaque milk- 
white colour {laiticineo) . 

Sometimes these twine, like the roots of hyacinth 



ESTHETICS OF THE DINNER-TABLE 383 

bulbs, through their transparent prison, as if they were 
growing tendrils ; and not infrequently the network 
of white threads is crossed by a lattice pattern (vitro 
de trina, or " lace glass "), and between each lozenge 
a little shining air-bubble has been artfully left. ,Then 
there is the millefiori (thousand flowers), when the 
glass is richly variegated with stars, circles, or other 
geometric figures, produced by mingling small cylin- 
drical strips of various -coloured filigree glass, cut 
from thin rods, with the colourless melted glass of 
the mass. The schmelze, too, is beautiful, with its 
agate-like colours, variegated brown, green, or blue, 
which when seen by transmitted light assumes a deep 
blood-red tinge. More beautiful still is the smelze- 
aventurine, when patches or globules of gold vein 
the blue and brown surface of the smelze, while in 
the aventurine, in the melted glass of which levig'ated 
leaf of gold or metallic filings have been mixed, 
sparkles of gold are suspended in the glass. By 
" smelze " something like enamel is meant ; while 
" aventurine " is similar to what is known in the 
jewellery trade as " gold stone." Venetian glass 
sometimes is of smoky brown or has a blackish 
tinge which connoisseurs admire as the coffee -colour 
of old lace is admired. 

The epergne is a highly necessary piece of 
table furniture, and should always be a work of 
art. Often enough, however, it is vmmeaning and 
conventional in form, an article in plate or pottery, 
which has to be redeemed from deserved obscurity 
by a glowing mass of flowers ; but its presence 
is essential to the gourmet of thought, refinem'ent, 
and taste, who wants his eyes between the courses, 
and during the lulls in conversation, to rest, not on 
mere plate, but on a production of the mind. 

James I., who was always served on the knee, 
had the centre of his table ornamented with a " sur- 



/ 



384 GOOD CHEER 

tout," a kind of epergne, pyramidal in form, which 
contained most costly vessels, and was even enriched 
with diamonds. 

In the " sixties " of the last century the introduc- 
tion of the dinner d la Russe was followed by the 
fashion of florid glass epergnes, towering and branch- 
ing all over the centre of the table, till one half 
the guests were hidden from the other half, even 
though the dining-room were flooded by the glaring 
lights of unscreened gas-jets. The china bowls filled 
with roses which, in our grandfathers' generatic«i, 
preceded these ornate ponderosities were infinitely 
preferable. 

Now we turn their old-fashioned wine-coolers and 
decanter -stands into jardinieres and sweetmeat 
dishes ; old Georgian silver punch-bowls are used 
as centre-pieces, and antique silver candlesticks are 
converted into pillars for miniature electric table- 
lamps. Anything is better than the hideous centre- 
pieces of the early Victorian era. Sometimes, too, 
the bare board is revealed by using table-slips instead 
of table-cloths. The linen table-cloth came into use in 
this country at a very early period, and ancient 
drawings shi6w the overhanging cloth knotted at the 
corners . 

An expanse of white table-cloth is now generally 
avoided ; it is broken up by flower-stands, comfit- 
dishes, and separate condiment holders, as small and 
numerous as possible — the heavy centre cruet has 
departed with the elephantine epergne — all of varioys 
shapes and sizes. Between these, flowers and foliage 
are laid to relieve any " spottiness " which might 
result from this method of laying the table. The 
menus, too, are, or should be, en suite. 

Then it has been discovered that overhead light 
does not phow up silver and crystal half so well 
as when concentrated downwards ; so table illumina- 




"A LITTLE SUPPER." 
From an old French print. 



To face p. : 



ESTHETICS OF THE DINNER-TABLB 385 

tion is now effected by means of table-lamps or 
suspended electroliers, topped with soft silk umbrella 
shades. The shades may vary in shape and colour, 
but the whole of the decorations should, of course, 
be brought into one well-considered scheme of 
colour. The subject of modern table decoration is 
fully discussed in an illustrated and illuminative 
article in the Art Journal for 1891. 

While the dining-table should be broad enough 
to carry everything that is necessary to its proper 
equipment and adornment, it should not be too wide 
to make converse across it in the least degree 
difificult. 

A good dining-room chair should be substantial 
but portable, not cumbrous but secure*; for comfort 
it should have a good back to give support, but 
free of those carved wooden ornaments which 
hurt the head or bore into the spine. The seat should 
be padded, and upholstered in leather for choice. 
An anecdote is related of a certain luxurious alder- 
man who used always, at the end of the second 
course, to call for " a cold chair " ; on his re- 
quirements in this direction being met, he fell to 
at the feast with renewed vigour and enjoyment. 



25 



XXXV 

AT THE FESTIVE BOARD 

Grace at meat — Illustrative anecdotes — ^The serving of the meal — 
Serving as the handmaiden of cookery — Its foresight, calcula- 
tion, and intricacy — Tips and vails — A pernicious system — The 
carving — A famous official carver — The " scalco '' — ^The amateur 
carver — His proficiency — ; Difficult carcass joints — Conver- 
sation — The punster at table — Old custom of jovial songs — 
Toast masters — Elaborate formula at London banquets — 
Anecdotes of toast-drinking. 

When we find ourselves seated round the hospitable 
table we observe that the procedure varies slightly 
as the table is that of a private friend or of a 
public function. 

Grace at meat, the expression of gratitude to Provi- 
dence for the blessings enjoyed at table, is an ancient 
Christian custom. As a practice it has come down 
from the early Church, evidently foimded on the 
example set by St. Paul, of whom it is recorded in 
Acts xxvii., "... when he had spoken, took bread, 
and gave ithanks to God in the presence of them 
all, and when he had broken it, began to eat." 

An attitude of mind more characteristic of classic 
paganism is, expressed in " Feasts are too proud to 
give thanks to the gods." 

At the present day at public or private dirmers, 
where the company is mixed and there is the least 
fear of hurting the religious susceptibilities of any 

386 



AT THE FESTIVE BOARD 387 

guest, the ceremony of grace is more honoured in 
the breach than the observance. 

The germ of the modem grace, says the Gentle 
Elia, had its origin in the early times of the world 
and the hunter state of man, when dinners were 
precarious things, and a full meal was something 
more than a common blessing — when a bellyful was 
a windfall that looked like a special providence to 
be hailed by jubilation and songs of triumph. The 
jubilant has become the reverent and the devotional. 
In some houses where the grace is as indispensable 
as the napkin it is not always quite settled who is 
to say it, the good man of the house or the youngest 
child, the visitor clergyman or some other guest 
of gravity and authority, or some person to be called 
upon — an unseasonable uncertainty which gives the 
prelude to the meal an unbecoming awkwardness. 

The devout Robbie Burns, who has left us enduring 
examples of his rhymed expressions of gratitude, 
was neat at an impromptu grace when called upon. 

In the more recent past, when it was customary 
never to neglect this form of revererw;e, even at 
semi-private dinners, a diner-out who was a bit of 
a wag, when importuned for a grace, used to inquire, 
first slyly leering down the table, " Is there no 
clergyman here?" significantly adding, "Thank 
God ! " 

The serving of a meal is next in importance to 
the cooking of it. The old-time custom of honour- 
ing some of the chief joints w/ith a procession had 
something to recommend it. But the same cannot 
be said for that piece of extravagant magnificence 
which marked the coronation feasts of the ancient 
kings of France, the newly crowned, when seated at 
the table, being served by his nobility on horseback. 
"They also serve who only stand and wait," 

saith Milton. 



388 GOOD CHEER 

Eating does not consist in putting cold, greasy 
j animal food into one's mouth. Eating consists of 
j putting into the mouth — chewing, enjoying the flavour, 
; and swallowing, of course — warm, juicy, thinnish or 
thickish, fat or lean, morsels of properly prepared 
' food, precisely at the nick of time. A minute too 
late, or five minutes too soon, it is cramming, 
but not eating. All of which depends on proper 
serving and good waiting. Good waiting is, prac- 
tically, if not literally, the handmaiden of good 
cooking. 

Efificient table service begins before the meal ; 
it concerns itself with artistically folded napkins, 
the provision of an adequate supply of glass and 
cutlery, land every other detail of table equipment 
and decoration. Proper foresight and careful calcu- 
lation must enter into that unerring orderliness which 
characterises a correct service of the courses — hars 
d'ceuvres, soup, fish, joints, sweets, coffees, liqueurs, 
and so on, throughout the menu — with the proper 
succession of knives, forks, and spoons, of plates and 
glasses, of the varying shapes and sizes appropriate 
to each, and all forthcoming at the moment required, 
silently, but without mistake, failure, or confusion. 
The intricacies of the waiting art are indeed many 
and subtle. The efificient waiter is conversant with 
all of them ; the perfect waiter is, moreover, alert, 
watchful, and prompt, and as impersonal as he is 
solicitously attentive. 

The pernicious system of giving tips to waiters 
at public places need not be discussed here ; but 
the old system of vails to the servants at private 
residences cannot be passed over in silence. When 
this disgraceful practice was in vogue no guest could 
leave his host's table without having to satisfy the 
eager expectations of the menial crew. A man at 
one time could not dine with his father or nearest 



AT THE FESTIVE BOARD 389 

relative unless he paid twice as much for his dinner 
as he would at the best tavern in town. The 
honour of making the first attack on this form of 
disguised blackmail must be credited to the principal 
gentlemen of the coimty of Aberdeen who, in 1759, 
held a meeting to consider the question. They passed 
a resolution declaring the practice " not only per- 
nicious in respect to servants, but likewise a thing 
shameful, indecent in itself, and destructive to all 
real hospitality." They pledged themselves when 
visiting each other to give no money to servants, 
or allow their own servants to take money from 
guests. 

The example was followed elsewhere, till the 
practice was effectively wiped out. Some day there 
will be a similar crusade against tipping in hotels 
and restaurants. 

There is still an immense system of tipping in 
China. Every individual has to be tipped for every 
possible service. If one gives a dinner, the guests 
come attended by a retinue of servants, sometimes 
as many as twenty-five, and it is necessary for the 
host to tip every one of these servants. 

In Japan the largest tip is given to the innkeeper ; 
this is because inn tariffs are exceedingly low, by 
force of law. 

There are dishes which need to be carved before 
they can be served, and not the least important 
functionary at a dinner is the carver. A celebrated 
carver was Vincenzo Cervio, who wrote " Trinciante " 
(" The Carver "), published at Venice in 1581. He 
was official carver to Cardinal Famese, an office then 
considered a high and important one ; and which in 
his case necessitated the employment of a number of 
assistants, the practice, at great banquets, being to 
have one carver to every six persons. These officials 
were men of good family, of good education, and 



390 GOOD CHEER 

able to " anatomise " the joints on which they 
operated, and such as could uphold the reputation 
of their honourable office. Yet in all the noble and 
princely Italian households of that period there was 
{an official who was superior to the darver. This 
i'was the Scalco, whose special duty was the general 
direction and control of all the other servants of 
the buffet and the kitchen, who selected the dishes, 
arranged the menu, and ordered the manner in which 
the dinner should be served. H,e was said to have 
the life and honour of his master in his hands — his 
life, as it was no uncommon thing then to put poison 
in the food of rivals in love or enemies in politics ; 
his honour, as the honour of a great man was esti- 
mated by the magnificence and extravagance of his 
entertainments . 

The day of the official carver has passed. But 
the expert amateur carver is generally sure of a 
wartn welcome if his services are to be specially 
requisitioned. 

The proficient carver's maxim is to " deal small 
and serve all." The good carver distributes his 
favours, the tit -bits of the joint, with discrimina- 
tion if he knows his company, with impartiality if 
he does not. All tastes are not alike, but courtesy 
is due to every one. The efficient carver is never 
hurried or flustered, though the slow carver is a 
pest. Efficiency gives to carving the deliberation 
and accuracy of dissection ; the perfect carver's work 
is one of graceful dexterity. Of large joints, portions 
of which are left over for consumption cold, a master 
carver never mars the fair proportions, to leave on 
the dish nothing but a shapeless ruin. A carcass 
joint should be sent up from the kitchen properly 
jointed ; no kitchen is complete without a cleaver. 

The carving of a haunch of venison, a saddle of 
mutton, or a grinning boar's head is a feat not to 



AT THE FESTIVE BOARD 391 

bfe attempted by a novice. The art of carving calls 
not only for practice but for some sense of pro- 
portion and fitness ; and some diners who suffer from 
the absence of these qualifications would almost 
prefer to have the joint brought round in the olden 
style, so that with their own knives they could cut 
off the morsel their souls desire, instead of being 
served with the scraps usually sent from the buffet. 

To cut warm joints fairly and smoothly, neither 
in slices that are too thick nor in such as are 
finically thin, is all that is required of a carver of 
meat, whether boiled or roasted. To fill up a plate 
with slobbery lumps is to undo all the efforts of the 
cook to present the meat in its most appetising 
form. 

Carving takes timte, and the polite diner lays down 
the knife and fork now and then, looks about him 
with a smile, and devotes the respite to agreeable 
conversation, badinage, repartee. As Pope says : — 

"To the feast is joined 
Discourse, the sweeter banquet of the mind." 

Conversation, like carving, is a very desirable \ 
social accomplishment. 

" Conversation is but carving : 
Give no more to every guest 
Than he's able to digest ; 
Give him always of the prime, 
And but little at a time ; 
Give to all but just enough, 
Let them neither starve nor stuff, 
And that each may have his due. 
Let your neighbour carve for you." 

This is the dictum of Sir Walter Scott, no mean 
authority on either subject. 

He who can set the table in a roar as that 



392 GOOD CHEER 

merry wag Yorrick was wont to do, is generally 
a well -appreciated table companion. 
/ The punster at the festive board may assist the 
/digestion of those who can appreciate this form of 
' wit. For instance, if he is sitting down to a table 
in a ravenous state, and is asked what style of 
cooking he prefers, very promptly he replies, Hun- 
garian 1 " Or, if there is any dish of which his 
palate so approves that he would fain have another 
serving, he will not agree that its style is French, 
or English, or Italian, or anything but — " Moorish ! " 
There was an old four-part song for male voices 
which, as an accompaniment to a good dinner, would 
at least raise a smile. It was entitled " Life is but 
a Melancholy Flower," and ran in this wise : — 

Life is butter ! 
Melon ! ! 
Cauliflower ! ! ! 
Life is but a melancholy flower ! " 

It is well to " prepare for mirth, for mirth 
becomes a feast," says the Bard of Avon. 

Alexander Barclay (1570) states that our ancestors 
had a custom of singing jovial songs during the time 
of meals. 

"When your fat dishes smoke upon your table 
Then laude ye songs and balades magnifie 
If they be merry, or written craftely 
Ye clappe your hands and to the makinge harke. 
And one say to another, lo ! here a proper warke. 

Spontaneity at table often gives way to formality — 
sometimes tedious formality. 

The ancients had a custom of appointing at their 
feasts a " king " or " master," who was empowered 
to order how much each guest should drink, and 
whom all the company were bound to obey. He was 



AT THE FESTIVE BOARD 393 

chosen from' among themselves by the throwing pf 
dice. 

The modern representative of this functionary is 
the toa^tmaster at public banquets. 

As master ofTHe"ceremonies at the big London 
ibamquets he is always a great feature in the evening's 
proceedings. He is invariably a man of good 
presence, and the possessor of a clear, ringing voice, 
and he generally uses an elaborate formula for intro- 
ducing the various items on the programme. The 
toastmaster sprang into existence some time in the 
eighteenth century, and most probably the office was 
created in the ever-hospitable city of London. 

" Part of the old City toastmaster's duties," we 
read> " necessitated his wearing a most portentous 
cocked hat, and a scarlet waistcoat richly faced with 
gold " ; and we are reminded that it was in this 
glowing garb the father of Toole the actor spent 
his official life. It does not follow that a man who 
has to direct the ceremonial drinking of many others 
drinks too much himself ; and therefore we can only 
accept as a caricature (as no doubt Dickens intended 
it) " Henry Beller, many years toastmaster at 
various corporation dinners," who appears as one 
of the interesting converts to temperance, in " The 
Report of the Committee of the Brick Lane Branch 
of the United Grand Junction Ebenezer Temperance 
Association." A capital anecdote is that preserved 
in Notes and Queries (1879), which tells that during 
the short-lived Peace of Amiens (1802) the chairman 
at one of the city banquets proposed the toast of 
" The Health pf the Three Present Consuls," which 
the toastmaster took up in his stentorian accents, and 
by mistake or a happy inspiration translated into 
" The Health of the Three per cent. Consols I " The 
company, we are told, honoured the toast with great 
enthusiasm, and we can well believe it. 



394 GOOD CHEER 

The formulae used by, different toastmasters vary ; 
some are more elaborate than others, but all have 
to be correct in a matter of precedence, such as 
" Your Excellency, My Lords, Ladies, and Gentle- 
men, pray charge your glasses I " " This dbne " 
(says G. C. Maclean in an article on the subject) 
" the toastmaster annoimces the name of the person 
proposing the toast, and ultimately the name of the 
seconder. Altogether there is a fine sense of cere- 
mony about the office of a toastmaster which imparts 
dignity to the functions at which he presides." 

Toast-drinking, with its accompanying speech- 
making at public dinners, especially when the 
speakers are prosy and ineffective, is often enough 
a weariness to the flesh. 

" Afflict us not, ye gods ! though sinners, 
With many days like this, and dinners." 

Public spirit, or at least corporate spirit, may be 
invigorated by such social functions. But the 
common fault of many public banquets is an undue 
lengthening of a formal toast list, which involves 
the consumption of too much wine, and really detracts 
from the pleasure of the earlier part of the pro- 
ceedings. 



XXXVI 
FEASTS, HISTORIC OR NOTABLE 

Belshazzar's feast — Festivity and Divine visitations — Anthony and 
Cleopatra's feasting — Sumptuous and magnificent profusion — 
A gorgeous French betrothal banquet — A brilliant company of 
courtiers — Twelve tables and seven elaborate services on 140 
" goodly dishes of silver " — English royal banquets — Elizabeth's 
entertainment at Kenilworth (1573) — Westminster Hall and 
Coronation banquets — Duke of Wellington takes part in last 
cerenionial of the King's Champion (1821) — Civic banquets at 
Guildhall — Sumptuary laws v. luxury and gluttony — An epis- 
copal enthronisation — " Warners " and " subtelties " at a 
Lenten feast — Wax Chandlers Company's frugal feast — A royal 
marriage feast (1612) — Last city feast of Charles I. — Costly 
banquet to George III. — Guildhall Chapel service to deprecate 
"indigestions and all plethoric evils" — Legal feasting at Inns of 
Court — " Eating their terms " — Profuse displays of former 
times — Public banquets — The Anti-benediction Dinner (1814) 
— Tory epicures — ^Whig gluttons — Colchester's Oyster Feast — 
Farnham Venison Dinner. 

No form of honouring* worthy guests or special occa- 
sions, of commemorating notable events, of public 
rejoicing in its most expressive manifestation, has 
commanded more universal favour than the feast. 
The pages of history, ancient and miodem, sacred 
and profane, abound' with highly illustrative examples 
of this phase of human society, of man in his festive 
mood. 

History records no royal feasting more tragic and 
terrifying than that of Belshazzar, at which appeared 



396 GOOD CHEER 

the awful writing on the wall, during the captivity 
of the Jews in Babylon. Belshazzar, the last of 
the Babylonian monarchs, made a g'reat entertain- 
ment for a thousand of his courtiers, and their wives 
and concubines. When excited with the wine he had 
drunk he ordered the gold and silver vessels taken 
from the temple of God in Jerusalem to be brought 
to the feast for himself and his courtiers to drink 
to the honour of their idols. During* this impious act 
he, with horror, perceived as it were a man's finger 
writing upon the wall. Immediately the horror- 
struck King sent for his astrologers and diviners to 
expound to him the mysterious hand'writing'. When 
they failed he sent for the Hebrew prophet, Daniel, 
who thus interpreted the words that were written, 
namely : Mene, Mene, tekel, upharsin . " Mene" 
thundered the prophet, " God hath numbered thy 
kingdom, and finished it. Tekel, thou art weighed 
in the balance, and art found wanting. Peres, thy 
kingdom is divided, and given to the Medes and 
Persians." And so it was fulfilled, for in that night 
was Belshazzar slain, and Darius the Median took 
the kingdom. {Upharsin is a particle of the verb 
peres, signifying "and they divide.") 

The turning of a festive gathering into one 
of terror and lamentation is a Divine device seen also 
in the Book of Job. Were not the children of tjhie 
patriarch holding a feast on the day that a greajt 
wind caught the four corners of the house, and they 
all perished in the ruins? A greater effect is pro- 
duced on the human mind by setting* a calajn^ty 
against a background of festivity. 

The feasts given by Anthony and Cleopatra 
acquired the reputation of being as profuse as they 
were sumptuous. A young Greek visiting Alexandria 
fotmd his way into the palace kitchen, where he 
saw, among a vast variety of things, eight wild boars 



FEASTS, HISTORIC OR NOTABLE 397 

roasting whole at the same time. On inquiry as to 
the large numbers of guests for whom he supposed 
this great provision was being made, he was 
astonished when told there would not be more than, 
ten. The household officer further informed him' 
that it was necessary to be prepared to serve a 
boar in the highest degree of perfection at any 
moment, as Anthony would ordfer his supper at one 
moment, and almost immediately afterwards forbid 
it to be served, having entered into a conversation that 
diverted him, for which reason it was usual to provide, 
not one but several suppeife, so as to be prepared 
for any emergency. * 

A similar anecdote, by the way, is related of | 
Napoleon. When the great Emperor was campaign- I 
ing, his chef put down a chicken to roast every twenty | 
minutes, for it was never known at what hour Ms \ 
Imperial Majesty would call for his dinner. 

A more elaborate and fantastic table entertainment 
was never given than that at Tours, in 1458, to mark 
the affiancing of Gaston de Foix and Madame Majg'da- 
lene of France, at which were present King Philip le 
Bel and the whole of his brilliant Court, including 
the princesses of the blood. 

There were twelve banqueting -tables of great size. 
The service began with white hypocrass and toasts ; 
the second consisted of capons and gammons of 
bacon ; the third of swans, peacocks, bustards, herons, 
bitterns, and many other kinds of Avild fowl ; stags, 
harts, wild goats, and venisons of various kinds ; each 
service of "a hundred and forty goodly dishes of 
silver." 

" After which service, twelve men brought in (as an entre course) 
a castle, with four goodly towers at four corners, erected upon a 
rock. In the midst of the castle stood a great tower, in the form of 
a donjon, which had four windows, in each whereof was placed a 
beautiful lady, very richly apparelled. At other four windows 



398 GOOD CHEER 

stood four gallant young boys, singing most sweetly before the 
presence. And, to speak truly, this entre course seemed a terrestrial 
paradise, for on the tops and pinnacles of the tower and donjon, 
were fixed the escutcheons and banners of France, richly painted 
and emblazoned in colours ; as also the devices of Charles the 
Seventh, and the Order of the Star in white and carnation. 

" The fourth service consisted of fowls, as well great as small, the 
whole being sumptuously gilded : and on each of the twelve tables 
were placed an hundred and forty silver dishes, according as in all 
the other services. After this service was brought in (for an entre 
course) the shape of a beast, called a tiger, which (by cunning art) 
disgorged fire from his mouth and nostrils. About his neck was a 
rich collar, whereat hung the arms and devices of the king, very 
costly and curiously fashioned. This entre course was carried by 
six men, each of them having a mandillon and bonnet, made after 
the fashion of Bearne ; and they danced before the lords and ladies, 
according to the manner of the country ; which moved much mirth 
and laughter, and this entre course was commended above all the 
rest, in regard of the new dancing. 

" The fifth service was of pies, tarts, dishes of cream oranges-adoes 
and citrons confected ; each of the twelve tables being served with 
an hundred and forty silver dishes. After the said service of sweets, 
was carried another entre course, which was a great hill or mountain, 
borne by four and twenty men. In the mountain stood two fair 
artificial fountains ; from the one flowed abundantly white wine, and 
from the other red." 

After the sixth service of red hypocrass and wafers 
came another " entre course " of a man on horse- 
back, 

" very artificially [artfully] made, attired in crimson velvet, but the 
whole consisting of goldsmith's work. In the midst was a small 
garden, and therein stood a poet gathering all kinds of roses and 
other flowers, made of wax, which he presented to the ladies.'' 

Truly a pretty conceit. 

The seventh service was of spiceries and con- 
fections, after which was carried round " a living 
peacock, and a goodly great ship." 

As " Favines Theatre of Honour " informs us, these 
were not the whole of the remarkable efforts put 
forth on this occasion to please the company ; " con- 



FEASTS, HISTORIC OR NOTABLE 399 

certs of singular voices, with all kinds of instru- 
ments " were performed on a platform' which ha;d 
been specially erected in the great hall of St. Julien, 
where the festivity was held. All this happened, it 
may be noted, at a period when the glories of ancient 
chivalry were decadent. 

The famous entertainment given at Kenilworth by 
the Earl of Leicester to Queen Elizabeth in 1575 
lasted seventeen days ; but it was more celebrated 
for its pageantry than for its feasting, though 
both were on a magnificent scale. A tempor- 
ary bridge seventy feet in length spanned the 
valley to the great gate of the castle, and on each 
side stood columns hung with the offerings of the 
seven Grecian deities to her Majesty. 

Sylvanus (divinity of the fields and forests) offered 
two cages of wild fowl ; PomOna (fruits) two great 
silver bowls filled with apples, pears, oranges, 
lemons, pomegranates, &c. ; Ceres (corn) presented 
two silver bowls with wheat, barley, oats, &c. ; 
Bacchus gave " two silver lyvery pots " filled with 
wine, and clusters of grapes, both red and white ; 
Neptune presented a large plate strewed with fresh 
grass, on which lay various kinds of sea fish ; and 
the list was completed by Mars with his weapons of 
war, and Phoebus with musical instruments of every, 
description. 

In this country the one existing building which, 
if its walls were able to speak, could recount the 
most marvellous tales of royal feasting, is West- 
minster Hall, in which for centuries the coronation 
banquets were held. In its original form it was large 
enough for Henry III., on the New Year's Day of 
1236, to entertain six thousand poor men, women, and 
children. Westminster Hall, in its present form, was 
rebuilt by Richard II. in 1397. 

It was here, in 1 170, the young Prince Henry was 



400 GOOD CHEER 

crowned in his father's lifetime, upon which occa- 
sion the festal procession was truly regal, for " the 
King served his son at the table as server, bringing 
in the boar's head with trumpets before it." 

At the coronation of Richard II. in 1377 Sir 
John Dymock, as successor to the Marmions in the 
office of King's Champion, rode into the hall armed 
to the teeth, and gave forth the customary challenge 
to all opposers of the monarch's title to the crown. 

The last occasion on which this ceremony took 
place was at the coronation of George IV., July 19, 
1 82 1, when Henry Dymock went through this form 
of medieval pageantry. At the coronation of 
William and Mary in 1689, to the consternation of 
the company, the challenge was accepted by an un- 
known person — it is supposed by an expert swords- 
man in disguise — but he escaped from the hall 
quickly, and nothing further came of it. 

In 1 82 1, as soon as the King and his gorgeous 
cortege had arrived from the Abbey and taken their 
seats, the great doors at the end of the hall were 
flung open, clarions and trumpets sounded bravely, 
and three horsemen rode up the floor of the hall — 
the Duke of Wellington, as Lord High Constable, the 
Marquis of Anglesey, as Lord High Steward, and 
Lord Howard of Effingham, as Deputy Earl Marshal 
— followed by gentlemen bearing the first course. 
When the dishes had been placed on the table, the 
bearers retired with their faces towards the King, 
and then the noble horsemen retreated, backing their 
steeds down the hall and out at the archway. Before 
the dishes were uncovered the Lord Great Chamber- 
lain presented the basin and ewer to bathe his 
Majesty's hands ; the Lord of the Manor of Heydon 
attended with a rich towel. The dishes were then 
bared, and his Majesty was helped by the carvers 
to some soup. 




CORONATION FEAST OF JAMKS H. 
From an old pnnt« 



FEASTS, HISTORIC OR NOTABLE 401 

At the end of this course the gates of the hall were 
again thrown open, and amidst another flourish of 
trumpets the Champion, clad in complete steel and 
mounted on a piebald charger, rode inside the dining- 
hall, holding a steel gaimtlet in his hand. The 
" awful Challenge " having been delivered, Mr. 
Dymock flung down the gauntlet with a clash. No 
one accepting the challenge, the heralds picked up 
the glove, delivered it to the squire, who kissed it, 
and handed it back to the Champion . This ceremony 
was repeated in the middle of the hall, and a third 
time at the foot of the royal dais. The King then 
drank the health of his gallant Champion, after- 
wards sending the cup to him, who in turn drank 
the royal health. The ancient ceremony con- 
cluded with the Champion gracefully backing 
his charger out of the hall amidst tumultuous 
cheering . 

Hall gives a quaint account of a similar per- 
formance by " Sir Robert Dimmoke, Champion to 
the Kynge," when Henry VHI. and Queen Catherine 
of Aragon were crowned. The same old writer 
also tells how, at the procession of Queen Anne 
Boleyn, a fountain on Cornhill ran Rhtenish wine, 
and a conduit in Cheap spouted claret. The streets 
were made to " run with wane " on such festive 
occasions in the olden times. 

In a curious and elaborate folio work, entitled 
" The History of the Coronation of James II.," pub- 
lished by Royal command in 1687, a full account of 
the coronation feast, comprising a total of 1,445 
dishes, is given, with references to a large engraving 
showing the disposition of these on the tables. 
Amongst them are cocks' combs, stags' tongues, 
cockles, spinage tails, periwinkles, crabs, egg-pies, 
quails, gammons of bacon, leverets, &c. 

London's great civic feasts are held at the Guild- 

26 



402 GOOD CHEER 

hall, whose ancient kitchens suggest centuries of 
boundless hospitality. 

" The first time (says Pennant) that Guildhall was used on festive 
occasions was by Sir John Shaw, goldsmith, knighted in the field of 
Bosworth. — After building the essentials of good kitchens and other 
offices, in the year 1500, this gentleman gave here the mayor's feast, 
which before had been usually done in Grocer's Hall. The bills of 
fare at length grew to such excess, that, in the time of Philip and 
Mary, a sumptuary law was made, to restrain the expense both of 
provisions and liveries ; but the city did not long observe it, for in 
1544 they thought proper to renew the order of council, by way of 
reminding their fellow-citizens of their relapse into luxury. 

" In the enthronisation feast of Archbishop Wareham, on March 
9, 1504, the first course was preceded by ' a warner, conveyed upon 
a rounde boorde of viii. panes, with viii. toures embattled and made 
with flowres, standynge on every towre a bedil in his habite, with 
his sta£Ee ; and in the same boorde, first the kyng syttinge in his 
parliament, with his lordes about hym, in their robes; and Saint 
Wylliara,.like an archbishop, sjrtting on the ryght hand of the kyng ; 
then the Chaunceller of Oxforde, with other doctors about hym, 
presented the said Lord Wylliam, kneelyng, in a doctor's habite, 
unto the kyng, with his commend of vertue and cunnjmge, &c. 
And on the third boorde of the same warner, the Holy Ghoste 
appeared with bright beames, proceeding from hym of the gyftes of 
grace towarde the sayde lorde of the f easte." This was a specimen 
of the ancient sotelties, and was given at a Lenten feast of the most 
luxurious kind. The sotelties were suited to the occasion, and of 
an historical or legendary nature, contrived ' with great cunnynge.' " 

A " warner " was a preliminary course — a prelude 
to another dish. 

" To these scenes of luxury and gluttony, let me oppose [continues 
Pennant] the simple fare at a feast of the Wax-chandlers, on 
October the 28th, 1478. These were a flourishing company in the 
days of old, when gratitude to saints called so frequently for hghts. 
How many thousands of wax-candles were consumed on these 
occasions, and what quantities the expiatory offerings of private 
persons, non can enumerate. Candle-mass day wasted its thousands, 
and these all blessed by the priests, and adjured in solemn terms. 
' I adjure thee, O waxen creature, that thou repel the devil and his 
sprights.' 



FEASTS, HISTORIC OR NOTABLE 403 

" Certainly this company, which was incorporated in 1484, might 
have afforded a more deUcate feast than ' Two loins of mutton, two 
loins of veal, a loin of beef, a leg of mutton, a pig, a capon, a coney, 
one dozen of pigeons, a hundred of eggs, a goose, a gallon of red 
wine, and a kilderkin of ale, which cost seven shillings.' 

"Among the great feasts given on public occasions, may be 
reckoned that given in 1612, on occasion of the unhappy marriage 
of the Prince Palatine with Elizabeth, daughter of James I., who, in 
defiance of the remonstrance of his better- judging father-in-law, 
rushed on the usurpation of the dominion of another, and brought 
great misery on himself and his amiable spouse. The next was in 
1641, when Charles I. returned from his imprudent, inefficacious 
journey into Scotland. In the midst of the most factious and 
turbulent times, when every engine was set to work to annihilate 
the regal power, the city, under its Lord Mayor, Sir William Acton, 
made a feast unparalleled in history for its magnificence. All ex- 
ternal respect was paid to his majesty, the last he ever experienced 
in the inflamed city. Of the entertainment we know no more than 
that it consisted of five hundred dishes. The sotelties were the 
ornamental part of the dessert. 

"The whole of the entertainment given to their majesties, 
George III. and Queen Charlotte, in 1761, cost the city ;£6,898 55. /[d. 
The feast consisted of 414 dishes, besides the dessert. The king 
and queen viewed the inaugural procession from the windows of 
Mr. Barclay, a linendraper, in Cheapside. 

" Adjacent to Guildhall was, formerly Guildhall chapel, or college, 
a Gothic building, founded by Peter Fanlove, Adam Francis, and 
Henry Frowick, citizens, about the year 1299. The establishment 
was a warden, seven priests, three clerks, and four choristers. 
Edward VI. granted it to the mayor and commonalty of the city of 
London. Here used to be service once a week, and also at the 
election of the mayor, and before the mayor's feast, to deprecate 
indigestions andiall plethoric evils." 

The festive proclivities of the legal profession must 
not be overlooked. Does not the legal neophyte 
almost literally eat his way to the bar? Doctors' 
Commons was so called because the doctors of the 
civil law had to dine toge(ther four days in eaich 
teim — to " common " means to dine together — and 
this was called "eating their terms." The Inns of 
Court have witnessed not a few magnificent spreads. 



404 GOOD CHEER 

Dr. Chamberlayne, in the fifteenth edition of his 
" Notitia Angliae " (1684), says :— 

" Feasting is not so common and profuse as anciently ; for 
although the feasts of coronations, at installations of Knights of the 
Garter, consecration of Bishops, (both now laid aside) entertain- 
ments of ambassadors, the feasts of the Lord Mayor of London, of 
Sergeants at Law and Readers' feasts in the Inns of Court, (also 
laid aside) are all very sumptuous and magnificent in these times, 
yet compared to the feasts of our ancestors, seem to be but 
niggardly and sparing ; for Richard Earl of Cornwall, brother to 
Henry III. had at his marriage feast, as is recorded, thirty 
thousand dishes of meal, and King Richard II. at a Christmas feast, 
spent daily twenty-six oxen, three hundred sheep, besides fowl, and 
all other provision proportionably ; so anciently at a call of 
Sergeants at Law, each sergeant (says Fortescue) spent sixteen 
hundred crowns in feasting, which in those days was more than 
sixteen hundred pounds now." 

In the history of public banquets, the one given 
to Lord Grey, in Scotland, at a great " Reform " 
demonstration, has the peculiar distinction of being 
dubbed the " Anti-benediction Dinner." It took 
place on September 15, 1834, in a vast wooden 
pavilion erected in the area of the Edinburgh High 
School, from the centre of the roof of which was 
dependent the great lustre from the Theatre Royal, 
to which a special " conduit " of gas had been laid 
on — quite an achievement in those days—with the 
result that the pavilion is admiringly described by 
one journal as a veritable " fairy palace." 

The dinner (says the Annual Register) being a 
cold one, and therefore already laid on the tables, 
offered an irresistible temptation to the persons 
admitted ; for as soon as they were seated, and long 
before the appearance of the chairman, there arose 
an almost universal clatter of knives and forks, and 
a general demolition of the eatables was vigorously 
commenced. This proceeding elicited some disap- 
probation. Hisses arose from different parts of the 



FEASTS, HISTORIC OR NOTABLE 405 

room, and a gentleman having ascended one of the 
tables entreated the company to desist from mastica- 
tion until the chairman had taken his place. But 
his appeal was fruitless, at least to the majority 
of his auditors ; on went the work of demolition^ 
and, in fact, by the time the chair was taken and. 
the dinner regularly commenced the eating was over. 
The appearance of the room when the whole com- 
pany had taken their places was very imposing, says 
the same reporter. On the platform, besides the 
great guest of the festival, were Lord Brougham, 
Lord Rosebery, the Earl of Errol, Lord Lynedock, 
Lord Belhaven, Lord Durham, Sir J. C. Hobhouse, 
Professor Arago, the Solicitor-General, Sir J. Aber- 
cromby, the Marquis of Breadalbane, Lord Stair, 
&c., &c. Lord Rosebery took the chair in the absence 
of the Duke of Hamilton, who had excused himself 
from attending. The Lord Advocate (Jeffrey) was 
croupier, supported by Lord Dinorben and the 
Attorney -General . 

At the unseemliness which was displayed upon 
this occasion the public were not unnaturally shocked, 
especially as the offenders were Scotsmen ; and not 
a little capital was made out of it by the contrasting 
of the irreproachable manners of " Tory epicures " 
with " these wretched WJhig gluttons " who had so 
scandalised the " unco' guid " and discredited the 
name of Scotland. 

In the history of festivity thei Colchester O yster 
Feas t is uniqu e. The origin of the feast is lost in 
the mists of antiquity, though its wr'itten records go 
back to 1667 ; it appears to have been held every 
year on St. Denis's Day, October 9th, which under 
the New Style has become October 20th. When it 
was lattended only by the Mayor and Council it was 
made a charge upon the town accounts ; but since 
the Municipal Reform Act of 1835 it has been held 



406 GOOD CHEER 

at the personal expense of the Mayor, and in recent 
years has become a great public function to which 
have been invited some of the most eminent ,men 
of the day. 

Colchester's oyster fishery dates from time imme- 
morial. There is abundant evidence of its succulent 
bivalves having attained great popularity among the 
luxurious Romans of old. In the fourth century 
the historian Macrobius asserts that St. Sylvester 
and the Roman Pontiffs never failed to have British 
oysters on their tables. In fact, British native oysters 
were renowned in ancient Rome, and their praises 
were sung by Juvenal, Martial, and other Latin poets. 
Even before the Christian era the historian Sallust 
declared that " after all there is some good in the 
poor Britons — ^they can produce an oyster." 

"The olde luxuryous Romanes vaunte did make, 
Of gustful oisters tooke in Lucrine's lake ; 
Your Essex better hath, and suche perchance 
As tempted Caesar first to pass from France." 

Perhaps no other town is in the exceedingly happy 
position of being able to make high festival of its 
staple production. 

The townsmen of Farnham have for three hundred 
years enjoyed an annual venison dinner, the gift of 
the Bishop of Winchester. The custom originated 
as a judicious bribe ; to prevent the mysterious dis- 
appearance of his fattest bucks, the Bishop promised 
to give one each year if his herd were not interfered 
with. Honesty is its own reward. 

A notable festive gathering in the annals of litera- 
ture — there are many others — was the Theatrical Fund 
Dinner, held February 23, 1827, at which Sir Walter 
Scott avowed himself, for the first time, as the author 
of the Waverley Novels. 



XXXVII 

GOOD CHEER IN FICTION 

Gargantua — 17,913 cows to supply a babe with milk — A giant's 
appetite and daily fare — Barmecide's feast of illusory fare — 
The first feast of the faithful in Paradise — A Spanish nuptial 
feast — Scottish feudal feasting — Festive allusions in " Waverley " 
— " Noctes Ambrosian» " — A deluge of haggis — The rude plenty 
of Arthurian legend — The Dickensian conception of good 
cheer — Bob Cratchit's goose — Little Copperfield's conciliation 
of the greedy waiter. 

Literature teems with feasts and good cheer. The 
feasts of fiction are as numerous as they are enjoy- 
able — for who has not feasted with his favourite 
characters? who has not partaken of their enjoy- 
ment, and, in their delectable company, " sated the 
edge of appetite by bare imagination " of the feast 
which the accomplished fictionist has prepared for 
us with a skill which is as great as his zest? 

In point of magnitude the most colossal feast ever 
described is the one which has given us the word 
" gargantuan," as meaning enormous, inordinate, 
something- great beyond all limits. It was the French 
satirist Rabelais who created the giant Gargantua, 
possessing all the wonders of an appetite and a 
thirst which a lively imagination could invent and 
a masterly command of language could adequately 
paint. i 

Immediately Gargantua was bom he cried out 

407 



408 GOOD CHEER 

" Drink, drink ! " so lustily that no less than 17,913 
cows had to be provided to supply this vigorous 
babe with milk. Later we read that when King 
Grangonsier made a feast for his son Gargantua on 
his return after defeating King Picrochole, 

"they made ready supper, and of extraordinary, besides his daily 
fare, were roasted sixteen oxen, three heifers, two-and-thirty calves, 
three-score-and-three fat kids, fourscore and fifteen wethers, three 
hundred barrow pigs soused in sweet wine, elevenscore partridges, 
seven hundred snipes and woodcocks, four hundred London Corn- 
wall capons, six thousand pullets and as many pigeons, six hundred 
crammed hens, fourteen hundred leverets, three hundred and three 
buzzards, and one thousand and seven hundred cockerels. For 
venison, they could not so suddenly come by it, only eleven wild 
boars, which the Abbot of Turpenay sent, and eighteeen fallow 
deer, which the Lord Grammont bestowed ; together with seven 
score pheasants, which were sent by the Lord of Essars, and some 
dozens of quests, cushats, ring-doves, and wood-culvers ; river-fowl, 
teals and awteals, bitterns, courtes, plovers, francolins, briganders, 
tyrasons, young lapwings, tame ducks, shovelers, woodlanders, 
herons, moor-hens, criels, storks, comepetiers, oranges, flamans 
which are phoenicopters, terrigoles, turkies, arbens, coots, solin- 
geese, curlews, termagants, and water-wagtails, with a great deal 
of cream, curds, and fresh cheese and store of soup, pottage and 
brewis, with variety. Without doubt this was meat enough," 
reflectively adds the historian Alcofribas. 

Barmecide's Feast, the typical banquet of empti- 
ness, we get from " The Arabian Nights." Barmecide 
asked Schacabac, a poor starving wretch, to dinner, 
and set before him an empty plate. " How do you 
like your soup?" asked the merchant. "Excel- 
lently well," replied Schacabac. "Did you ever see 
whiter bread? " " Never, honourable sir," was the 
civil answer. Wine was then brought in, and 
Schacabac was pressed to drink, but excused himself 
by saying he was always quarrelsome in his cups. 
Being over-persuaded, he fell foul of his host, and 
was provided with food to his heart's content. 
\ The term " Barmecide's Feast " is commonly used 



GOOD CHEER IN FICTION 409 

to express the uncertainty of things on which we 
have set our hearts, or the joy which is found to 
be a mere illusion when we come to partake of it. 

" To-morrow ! the mysterious unknown guest 
Who cries aloud, ' Remember Barmecide !' 
And trembles to be happy with the rest." 

The first delight of the happily departed on enter- 
ing the Mohammedan Paradise is a glorious feast. 
According to the Koran it is a future reward to 
dream about. On the entertainment of the faithful 
on their admission to Paradise, thus speaks the 
prophet : — 

"The whole earth will then be as one loaf of bread, and for 
meat they shall have the ox Balam and the fish Nun, the lobes of 
whose livers will suffice seventy thousand men. From this feast 
every one will be dismissed to the mansion assigned him, where he 
will have such a share of felicity as is proportionate to his merit, 
but vastly exceeding comprehension or computation, since the very 
meanest in Paradise will have 80,000 servants, 72 wives of the girls of 
Paradise, beside the wives he had in this world, and a tent erected 
for him of pearls, jacinths, and emeralds of a very large extent. 
There he will be waited on by 300 attendants while he eats, and 
shall be served in dishes of gold, whereof 300 shall be set before 
him at once, containing each a different kind of food, the last 
morsel of which will be as grateful as the first, and will also be supplied 
with as many sorts of liquors in vessels of the same metal ; and to 
complete the entertainment, there will be no want of wine, which, 
though forbidden in this life, will yet be freely allowed in the next 
without danger, since the wine of Paradise will never inebriate 
though you drink it for ever." 

In Cervantes's immortal romance " Don Quixote " 
is a description of the marriage feast of Camacho the 
Rich. The first thingf which presented itself to 
Sancho's sight, we read, was a whole bullock spitted 
upon a large elm. In six hug'e pots around, entire 
sheep were swallowed up, and floated like so many, 
pigeons. Hares ready flayed and fowls ready 



410 GOOD CHEER 

plucked hung upon the branches. Sancho saw be- 
wilderingf quantities of venison and wild fowl hanging 
about on the branches of trees ; he counted skins 
full of wines, and hillocks of white loaves and cheeses 
piled up in the manner of stacked bricks. And as the 
feast was to be a Spanish one there were ready two 
cauldrons of oil, larger than dyers' vats, for the 
inevitable frying. In this Rabelaisian description of 
a nuptial feast, Cervantes has been accused of a 
sly satire on the characteristic frugality of his 
countrymen, the bulk of whom are generally content 
with a meal of chocolate, bread, garlic, and grapes. 
Scott, in the " Lay of the Last Minstrel," gives 
us a picturesque description of the marriage feast of 
Cranston and the Lady Margaret : — 

"The spousal rites were ended soon, 
'Twas now the merry hour of noon, 
And in the lofty-arched hall 
Was spread the gorgeous festival ; 
Steward and squire, with heedful haste, 
Marshalled the rank of every guest ; 
Pages, with ready blade, were there. 
The mighty meal to carve and share. 
O'er capon, heron-shew, and crane, 
And princely peacock's gilded train, 
And o'er the boar-head, garnished brave. 
And cygnet from St. Mary's wave, 
O'er ptarmigan and venison, 
The priest had spoke his benison. 
Then rose the riot and the din. 
Above, beneath, without, within ! 
For, from the lofty balcony. 
Rang trumpet, shalm, psaltery ; 
Their clanging bowls old warriors quaffed. 
Loudly they spoke, and loudly laughed ; 
Whispered young knights, in tone more mild, 
To ladies fair, and ladies smiled. 
The hooded hawks, high perched on beam. 
The clamour joined with whistling scream, 
And flapped their wings, and shook their bells. 
In concert with the stag-hounds' yells. 



GOOD CHEER IN FICTION 411 

Round go the flasks of ruddy wine 
From Bordeaux, Orleans, or the Rhine ; 
Their tasks the busy sewers ply, 
And all is mirth and revelry." 

An illuminative exposition of the Scottish kitchen 
is given in the pages of " Waverley." On the ban- 
queting board at which Fergus Mclvor entertained 
Edward Waverley there were fish, game, and made 
dishes at the upper end, and at the lower, immense 
clumsy joints of mutton and beef, but no pork — 
swine's flesh being the Highlander's abomination. 
The central dish was a yearling lamb, called a " hog 
in har'st," set upon its leg's, with a bunch of parsley 
in its mouth. The accompanying beverages were 
claret and champagne for the chieftain and his guests, 
with whisky and strong ale for the braw clansmen. 

At the breakfast which Lady Margaret Bellenden 
gave Claverhouse in the great hall of Tillietudlem 
were no tea or coffee, rolls or toast, but viands solid 
and substantial — the priestly ham, the knightly sirloin, 
the noble baron of beef, the princely venison pasty ; 
the silver flagons mantled with generous wines or 
foamed with amber ale. Scott's ideas of hospitality 
are generous and commendable. 

Surely there was never a more extraor'dinary feast 
than that described in " Noctes Ambrosianse," in 
which occurred the " deluge of haggis." The dishes, 
brought in all together, were as miscellaneous a collec- 
tion as could be well imagined — a hot roasted round 
of beef, a couple of boiled ducks, a trencher of tripe 
d la Meg' Dods, a haggis, pickled salmon, Welsh 
rabbits, oysters raw, stewed, scalloped, roasted, and 
pickled, " Rizzards," " Finzeans " '(sun-dried haddock 
and smoke-dried haddock), and red herrings. This 
was supposed to be "a boimy wee neat bit sooper 
for three " ; and if appetite for the encounter could 
have been generated by excitement^ it was soon forth- 



412 GOOD CHEER 

coming ; for, alarming to relate, as soon as the 
shepherd had all too rashly " stuck " the hag^gis, it 
overflowed the table ! Then there was stir and bustle 
and consternation, a mad rush for towels, and a 
calling of all hands to the rescue. Presently thte 
messy tide overflowed the carpet, and a greater 
demand was made on the napery for the construction 
of a dam' across the floor. Indeed, ere the festivity 
could be resumed, a period of perturbation and dis- 
turbance had to be endured, till the wretched haggis 
had " subsided." When eventually, the precious 
company had escaped being " drooned in haggis," 
a fate far " waur than Clarence's dream," confidence 
was restored, and the festivity at last proceeded with 
soberness and harmony. This memorable supper 
may have been free from grossness, but, looked at 
fairly, it was scarcely the ethereal meal which forms 
that high ideal of the votaries of the simple life — as 
Adam' and Eve dining upon apples with the angel 
Gabriel, in the bowers of Paradise. 

Coming to this country, Tennyson is a pleasant 
guide to the dietary of the classic period of Arthurian 
legend, if not altogether a safe one. As a poet he 
makes the moods of men correspond with the food 
with which they nourish themselves. Thus when 
Geraint arrived at Yniol's impoverished household, 
Enid went marketing into the town, and came back 
with 

"The means of goodly welcome, flesh and wine, 
Sweet cakes to make them cheer, 
And in her veil enfolded, manchet bread ; 
And then, because their hall must also serve 
For kitchen, boil'd the flesh, and spread the board. 
And stood behind and waited on the three." 

A modest and cheerful meal enough, and very 
different from the rude plenty of the feast which was 
made by the Earl Doorm's lusty men when they 



GOOD CHEER IN FICTION 413 

". . . brought in whole hogs and quarter beeves, 
And all the hall was dim with steam of flesh ; 
And none spake word, but all sat down at once, 
And ate with tumult in the naked hall. 
Feeding like horses when you hear them feed ; 
Till Enid shrank far back into herself." 

The Dickensian conception of what constituted 
good cheer generally ran to the extreme of oveir- 
eating. In the Pickwickian Christmas celebration, 
for instance, that hearty old host the jovial Mr. 
.Wardle would have compelled every man, woman, 
and child about him, just as a guarantee of good- 
fellowship, to eat far more than was good for them. 
•j^And yet, of all the feasts of fiction, which of them' 
can compare with the Christmas dinner at Bob 
C ratchit 's ? ki-JJi©--whole-TaH;g^--ef-™]4t©»atu*e--ri»©.re 
-G®i«^a*e--w*rii--it..££iiE>.±he-.i»t©jasi-tyr-«'f- its 
We read that the young 
Cratchits went to the bakehouse to bring home the 
goose in high procession. Then the narrative pro- 
ceeds : — 

" Such a bustle ensued that you might have thought a goose the 
rarest of all birds ; a-iteaitifii£d4ihuijQmea«»r*0"whirir-aH»laefc-swan 
wa»«-«aatteiLiA£j:aui:s£zs:aadJiwtiaitiikii^^ 

tbiat-hoi.i.sp. Mrs. Cratchit made the gravy (ready beforehand in a 
little saucepan) hissing hot ; Master Peter mashed the potatoes 
with incredible vigour; Miss Belinda sweetened up the apple 
sauce ; Martha dusted the hot plates ; Bob took Tiny Tim beside 
him in a tiny corner at the table ; the young Cratchits set chairs for 
everybody not forgetting themselves, and mounting guard upon 
their posts, crammed spoons into their mouths, lest they should 
shriek for goose before their turn came to be helped. At last the 
dishes were set on, and grace was said. It was succeeded by a 
breathless pause, as Mrs. Cratchit, looking slowly all along the 
carving-knife, prepared to plunge it in the breast ; but when she 
did, and when the long-expected gush of stufifing issued forth, one 
murmur of delight arose all round the board, and even Tiny Tim, 
excited by the two young Cratchits, beat on the table with the 
handle of his knife, and feebly cried Hurrah ! 

" There never was such a goose. Bob said he didn't believe there 



414 GOOD CHEER 

ever was such a goose cooked. Its tenderness and flavour, size 
and cheapness, were the themes of universal admiration. Eked out 
by apple sauce and mashed potatoes, it was sufficient dinner for the 
whole family ; indeed, as Mrs. Cratchit said with great delight 
(surveying one small atom of a bone upon the dish) they hadn't ate 
it all at last. Yet every one had had enough, and the youngest 
Cratchits in particular, were steeped in sage and onion to the eye- 
brows. But now, the plates being changed by Miss Belinda, Mrs. 
Cratchit left the room alone — too nervous to bear witnesses — to 
take the pudding up and bring it in. 

" Suppose it should not be done enough ! Suppose it should 
break in turning out I Suppose somebody should have got over the 
wall of the back-yard and stolen it, while they were merry with the 
goose — a supposition at which the two young Cratchits became 
livid. All sorts of horrors were supposed. 

" Hallo I A great deal of steam ! The pudding was out of the 
copper ! A smell like a washing day ! That was the cloth. A 
smell like an eating-house, and a pastry-cook's next door to that. 
That was the pudding. In half a minute Mrs. Cratchit entered — 
flushed, but smiling proudly — with the pudding, like a speckled 
cannon-ball, so hard and firm, blazing in a half-a-quartern of ignited 
brandy, and bedight with Christmas holly stuck into the top. 

" Oh ! what a wonderful pudding ! Bob Cratchit said, and calmly 
too, that he regarded it as the greatest success achieved by Mrs. 
Cratchit since their marriage. Mrs. Cratchit said that now the 
weight was off her mind, she would confess she had had her doubts 
about the quantity of flour. Everybody had something to say about 
it, but nobody said or thought it was at all a small pudding for a 
large family. It would have been heresy to do so. Any Cratchit 
would have blushed to hint at such a thing." 

Whai the " Christinas Carol " was played at the 
Adelphi Theatre, with Toole as Bob Cratchit, much 
realism was got out of the Cratchit Christmas dimier- 
scene, a real goose and a real plum-pudding being 
served up every night. Tiny Tim was played by 
a somewhat emaciated little girl, who sat by the 
fireside and was fed with dainty morsels by the other 
little Cratchits, who clustered about the dinner -table,' 
and who, needless to say, were as willing to play 
as good a knife and fork on the stage as they 
are supposed to do in the book. Of all the little 



GOOD CHEER IN FICTION 415 

Cratchits, however. Tiny Tim proved the most 
voracious. Like his famous young relative, Oliver 
Twist, he always wanted more, anid night after night 
such large portions of goose and plum-pudding were 
handed to this exacting and himgry little invalid that 
even the good-natured Toole grew annoyed, feeling 
that the poetry of the scene was being missed, and 
at last became absolutely angry with the child for 
its supposed gluttony. Being at length taken to 
task on the subject, poor Tim made a coniessioii. 
The child had a sister (a not-too-well-fed sister) 
who was employed in the theatre. The fire by which 
Tim sat was a stage fire, through which anything 
could be easily conveyed to one waiting at the other 
side, and thus poor little Tim's goose and pudding 
were more than shared on each night. When Toole 
told the story to Dickens the latter was greatly 
touched, and said, " I ht)pe you gave the child the 
whole goose." 

This may recall a similar story of suspected in- 
fantile voracity in the case of David Copperfield, 
when he was sent away to school for the first time. 
On his way, the inexperienced little traveller had 
dinner at the Yarmouth coaching inn, where the wily 
coffee-room waiter took mean advantage of his 
innocence. 

First, this artful individual suggested that the half- 
pint of ale allowed with the dinner was of a danger- 
ously strong brew, and that it would be prudent if 
David permitted him to take the risk of drinking it. 
The boy, taken with the man's extreme affability and 
obliging nature, eagerly acquiesced in the arrange- 
ment. The covers being removed from the chops and 
potatoes, William the waiter declared there was 
nothing so efficacious in warding off the possible ill- 
effects of the beer, and thereupon took a chop by 
the bone in one hand, and a potato in the other;, 
and ate away to the boy's great satisfaction. He 



416 GOOD CHEER 

afterwards took another chop and another potato, and 
after that, another chop and another potato. Between 
the two the dish was very effectually cleared, and 
then the pudding was brought in and set before the 
little traveller. 

The waiter stood, appearing to ruminate, to become 
absent in mind for some moments. Then, rousing 
himself, he inquired, " How's the pie? " " It's a 
pudding," David made answer. " Pudding ! Why, 
bless me, so it is I " And coming nearer the table, 
added, " You don't mean to say it's a batter 
pudding? " " Yes, it is indeed." " Why, a batter- 
pudding is my favourite. Ain't it lucky? Come on, 
little un, and let's see who'll get most." And when 
this very friendly and companionable waiter was 
matched against the forlorn and trusting child, appe- 
tite to appetite, dispatch to dispatch, table-spoon 
to tea-spoon, the result may be easily gtiessed. At 
his departure from the inn it was not a little dis- 
concerting to David to find, as he was being helped 
up behind the coach, that he was supposed to have 
eaten all the dinner without assistance. He had 
observed that the women -servants came out to look 
and giggle at him as a yotmg phenomenon ; and 
he did not fail to discover what it all meant when 
the landlady from her bow-window called out to the 
guard, " Take care of that child, George, or he'll 
burst 1 " 

* i/i * * * 

Here, " with soothing memories of spent appetites," 
we take leave of our subject ; and surely not without 
" many brave memories of past good cheer " do we 
quit our pleasant and desultory roaming over the 
vast fields of food', faring, and feasting. The subject 
is a fascinating one, and almost inexhaustible. But 
now — 

"My banquet is to close our stomachs up 
After lall our great good cheer." 



INDEX 



Abderites, 28 
■ Acorns, 46 
Addephagia, 57, 267 
Adulteration, 191-2, 352-5 
A'l'Anglaise, 181-3 
Ale, 83, 87, 90, 92, 94, 95, 103, 106-7, n6, 

120-2, 125, 134, 136, 145, 162, 166, i86, 

209. 307. 346, 4" 
Allspice, 229 
Almonds 81, 86, 97, 100, 107, 142, 150, 

160, 166, 208, 230-1, 375 
Ambergris, 86, 138, 199, 253, 267 
Ambrosia, 31 
Amphitryon, 273 
Amfihora, 65 
Anchovy, 72, i6g, 183, 226, 251, 274, 301, 

348. 37S 
"Angel's food," 40 
Aniseed, 75, 230, 253-4, 293 
Antelope, 242, 290 
Anthropophagy, 32, 79, 331-340 
Apple, 81, 86, 107, 120, 142-4, 163, 212-13, 

291, 348, 412 
Apricot, 142-3, 256, 259 
Apicius, 77, 269 
Arrowroot, 315 

Artichoke, 141, 165, 244, 249, 259, 322 
Asafostida, 75-7, 331 
Asceticism, 49 
Asparagus, 6i, 269 
Aspic, 302, 377 
Assize of Bread, igo-i 

BACON, 55, 82, 93, 103, 134, 145, 166, 174, 
192, 199, 201, 212, 251, 300. 349. 353. 
397 

" Baker's dozen," 188 

Bakewell, 178 

Baking, 8i, 113-4, 121, 203, 216 

Bannocks, 167, 276 

Barbecue, 123, 181, 260 

Barbel, 248, 266 

Barberry, 244, 246 

Barley, 43, 48, 51, 94, 163, 167, 186, 190-2, 
19s. 22s, 246, 266, 307 

Baron of Beef, 162, 177, 183, 275, 411 

Bass, 344 



Basting, 57, 255 
Batter, 184, 211 
Bean-feast, 207 

Beans, 43, 49, 58-9, 85, 90, 94, 141, 163, 
188, 192, 199, 212, 243, 310-1, 320, 348 
Bear meat, 289, 296 
Beef, beeves, 50, 59, 82, 88, 103, 111,^16, 

121, 136, 140, 167, 270, 280, 301, 312-3, 

317,329,349,411,413 
Beef, roast, 74, 115, 162, 167, 171 173-184 
Beefeater, 128, 131-2, 174 
Beet 8s, 140, 183, 259, 302 
Biclinium, 67 
Birds, 44, 53, 94, 128, 242 
Birds nest soup, 298, 322 
Bis, 188 

Biscuit, 52, 159, 187, 209, 259, 360 
Bison, 28 

Bittern, 44, 120, 242, 397, 408 
Blackberry, 63, 259 
" Black broth," 48, 308, 325 
Black-pudding, 55, 207,279, 280, 290, 306, 

310 
Blanc-mange, 230, 244 
Blencorn, 186 
Bloater, 211 

Blood, 38, 76, 207, 290, 335 
Boar, III, 198, 290, 320, 337, 396-7, 408 
Boar's head, 81, 134, 198, 242, 366, 390, 

400, 410 
Boiling, 26, 35, 57, 79,167, 174, 183, 216, 226 
Bon-bons, 87 
Borage, 142, 260 
Botargo, 170 
Bouilli, 80,310 
Brains, 54, 7S-6 268, 289, 307 
Bran, 188, 190-1, 252 
Brandy, 168 

Brawn, 55, 107, 120, 170,217, 243^, 250 
Bread, 38, 40-1, 43, 45, 59, 64, 80-4, 87, 

90, 92, 94, 107, 121-2, 128, 136, 144, 154, 

162, 166-7, 185-192, 271, 280, 288, 301, 

344, 350, 352-3. 408 
Breakfast, 52, 64, 116-7, 119, 120, 122, 

134, 145, 167, 176, 206, 208, 213, 27s, 

297.37^.415 
Bream, 92, 248 

27 «" 



418 



INDEX 



Bredwite, 191, 

Brillat-Savarin, 249, 271, 273-4 

Brine, 72 

Broach, See Spit. 

Broccoli, 141 

Broiling, 34, 81, 106 

Brose, 311, 337 

Broth, 56, 107, 120, 123, 126-7, '67. 184, 

199, 226, 229, 230, 250, 300, 322 
Bubble-and-squeak, 183, 262 
Buckwheat, 192 
Buffet, 6s, 68, 130, 159, 390-1 
Buffalo, 290 
Bugloss, 140, 164 
Bustard, 397 
Bun, 203, 214, 217-8 
Butler 106, 113, 126 
Butter, 41, 43, 63, 95, 121, 124, 152, 162, 

165, I68--9, 184, ig6, 243-4, 255, 291, 306, 

310, 344, 3S3-4, 375 
Buzzard, 408 

Cabbage, 47, 59, 60, 85, 140-r, 163, 183, 

229, 243, 277, 301, 307, 310, 323, 361 
Cachous, 287 
Cake, 84, 90, 119, 124-S, 159, 163, 165, 

167, 195, 201-4, 208, 213, 259, 306, 412 
Calf, 40, 82, 163, 166 271, 408 
Calf's feet, 126 
CalFs head, 126, 294 
Callipash, 294 
Camel's feet, 54, 266 
Candying, 76, 150, 165, 216, 245 
Capers, 164, 259, 276 
Capon, $6, 87, 120, 126, 140, 199, 215, 230, 

242-3, 247-8, 230, 273, 397, 403, 410 
Cardo, cardoon, 85, 160, 322 
Carlings, 201 

Carp, 92, 135, 138, 150, 159, 169. 17°. 2^5 
Carraway, 72 
Carrody, 190 

Carrot, 85, 142, 307-8, 310 
Carver, carving, 68, 121, 126, 128, 148, 

154. 159. 226. 248, 273, 389, 400, 410 
Cauldron, 102, 153 
Cauliflower, 141 
Caviare, 159, 251, 295, 301, 348 
Cayenne, 275, 294 
Celery, 140, 308 
Champagne, 77, 124, 376, 411 
Chufon, 27s 
Charlotte, 241 
Cheat loaf, 165 
Cheddar, 292, 
Cherry, 36, 62, 86, 136, 142-3, 160, 163, 

256, 280 
Cheshire, 292 

Chestnut, 57, 86, 244, 249, 271, 314 
Cheese, 48, 51-2, 64, 72, 94-5, 115, 120 

124, 163, 165, 167, 170, 205, 213, 280' 

283, 291, 301, 306, 325, 341, 344, 350,, 

353i 37S. 4'o 



Chicken, 56, 106, 138, 154, 169, 170, 172, 

247-8, 252, 350, 397 
Chimney, 51, 314, 326 
Chitterlings, 77, 290 
Chocolate, 146, 168, 339, 410 
Chop, 174, 304, 41S-6 
Chopsticks, 151-2, 298 
Christmas, 134, 138, 168, 170, 192, 19S-9 

213, 217, 250,413 
Cider, 83, 344, 352-3 
Cinnamon, 97, 100, 107, 160, 165, 204, 

230, 243-4, 247 
Citron, 86, 244, 398 
Clermatyne,'^ 
Cloth (table), 80, 90, 97, 100, 128, 152, 159, 

168, 368, 380, 384 
Cloves, 75, 86, 97, 107, 243-4, 247> 3<» 
Cochineal, 87, 165 
Cock-a-leekie, 184, 310 
Cock ale, 168, 
Cocket, 187, igo, 
Cockle, 26s 
Cockscombs, 276, 410 
Cocoa, 288 

Cod, 92-3, 114, 202, 256, 276, 301 
Ctena, 65 
Ccenaculum^ 65 

Coffee, 168, 355, 361, 377, 388, 411 
Cohet, 95, 
Columbarium, 135 
Comfits, 92, 150, 165, 287, 368 
Commissaiio, 65 

Condiments, 35, 40, 274, 382, 384 
Coney, 87, 216, 230, 247-8, 403 
Confectionery, 87, 124-S, 159, 213-S ,255, 

398 
Conger eel, 51, 76, 86, 92, 242 
Colouring matter, 165 
CoUops, 174, 201, 308, 
ConsofnnKf 184 
Cookslop, 81, 94, 136-7, 232 
Cook's Oracle, 261 
" Cooking animal " 25, 26, 240 
Coriander, 40, 72, 253, 
Com, 78, 94-s, 189, 190, 399 
Cotagres, in 
Courses, 66, 89, 92, 96, 98, 109, 120-3 '-S> 

159, 169, 234, 251, 400 
Cow heel, 289 
Crab, S7. 107, 246, 248, 401 
Crackling, 34 
Cracknel, 165 

Crane, 57, 81, 85, 87, 120, 248, 410 
Crawfish, 276 
Cream, 143, 166, 171, 204, 231, 244, 249, 

252-3. 3S3. 408 
Credence, 131, 159, 381 
Cress, 85, 164 
Croustade, 231 

Cucumber, 38, 72, 142, 170, 260, 301-2 
Culinary art, 25-7, 30-6, 57, 81, 106-7, 

126-7, 133. i3fr-7. 144. 183-4, 224-»63 



INDEX 



419 



Cullender, 228 
Cup-bearer, 68, 83, 121, 
Cupboard &c., 102, 122, 130-1, 381 
Curds, 166, 204, 353, 408, 
Curlew, 44, 120, 242, 248, 408, 
Currants, ui, 143, 163, 201, 213-4, 259 
Custard, 107, 127, 201, 204, 213, 218, 242, 
230, 367 

DAMSON, 143, 

Dates, 57, 86, 138, 163, 241, 244, 247, 

249 
Decorations (table), 368, 380, 385 
Deer, 80, 82, 84, 100, 112, 334, 408 
Dendeng, 290 
Dessert, 65, 74, 76, 81, 103, 166, 260, 283, 

353. 375. 382. 403 
Dietaries, 26-7, 31, 40, 45, 47, go, 133-4 

136, 180, 266 
Digby, Kenelm, 23s, 251, 307 
Dining robes, 67, 70, 362 
Dining room, 65-J6, 69, 83, 104, 106, 113, 

121, 128, 130, 370, 381 
Dining seats, 67, 71, 80, 83, 104, 153, 168, 

191, 363. 380, 38s 
Dish-washer, 68 

Distilled waters, 165-9, 24S-6, 258 
Diversions (dinner), 69, 103, 105, no, 112, 

123-4, 199, 221-2, 365-8, 381, 392, 398 
" Dividers of bread," 131 
Dods, Meg, 260-1 
Dogfish, 320 
Dog flesh, 290, 298 
Dormice, 74, 266 
Dressoir, 131 
Duck, 251, 298, 408, 411 
Dumpling, 144, 211, 213, 289, 347 

Easter, 134 

Eel, 92, 95-9, 113, 13s, 163, i66, 212, 227, 

248, 270, 293, 348 
Eggs, 65, 72, 87-8, 107, 121, 126, 138, 145, 

163, 165, 170, 192, 201-2, 225, 231, 244- 

5. 253. 274. 291, 298, 301-2, 313, 348 
Eisell, 94 
Eland, 329 
Elephant's feet, 322 
Endive, 85, 
Entrails, 171, 225, 290 
Entree, 374, 377 
Entremets, 93, 295 ' 

Epergne, 383-4 
Epicureanism, 51-3,76. 138, 158, 180, 213, 

227, 244, 261, 264-277, 293, 326, 339, 

405 
Eryngo, 165, 295 
Eschalot, 292, 
Etiquette, table ceremonial, &c, 67-9, 80, 

81, 85, 102-3, 109, 112, 116, 119-132, 

147-161, 168, 248 
Extract (meat), 23^^ 



FAMINE, 94, 186, 192, 315, 338 

Fasting, 88, 113, 133-4, 196. 201. 236, 242, 

270, 283, 301, 325, 341 
Feasts, Feasting, 28-9, 31, 38, 40, 44, 50, 

58, 76, 85, gi, 96-100, 116, 123, 177, 

193-210, 220-3, 241, 340, 386-416 
Feast-bearer (dapifer), 85, 90 
Fennel, 72, 85, 140, 165, 246, 260 
Fig, 46, 48, 53, 64, 81, 86, 247, 375 
Filbert, 142, 166, 375 
Finger bowl, 81 
Fish, 38-9, 40, 44, 48-9, 51, 54-5, 76, 80, 

88, 93, 103, 303, 321, 341, 348, 409 
Fish kettle, 53 
Fish stew, 135, 166 
Flauns, 204 
Flavouring, 87, 339 
Flomery, 252, 260 
Flour, 72, 75, 81, 189, 190, 216, 288 
Fork, 79, 128, 138, 145, 147-161, 168, 379, 

3S8 
" Forme of Cury," 106-8, 229, 235, 241, 

319 
Fool (a dish), 204, 256 
Fowl, 80, 82, 84, 87, 94, 100, 103, 236, 

244, 298, 399, 404, 409 
Freibank, 315 

Fricassee, 75, i69,"'309, 339, 370 
Fritters, 75, 144, I5g, t6s, 200, 213 
Frog (edible), 2g9, 312-3, 322 
Fruit, 57, 64-5, 84, 86, 124, 140, 142, 144 

159, 242, 251, 271, 283, 297, 322, 339, 

344. 350, 370. 399 
Frumenty, igg, 206 
Fry, 2go 

Gabelle, 35, 271 

Galantine, 231 

Galingale, 106-7, 127 

GaliofiU, g7 

Gallimaufry, 183, 227 

Game, 27-2g, 81, 103, to6, 1 14, 128, 163, 

I7g, 242, 266, 270, 274, 33g, 353, 374 
Gammon, 134, 251. 3g7, 401 
Garlick, 38, 61, 75, 107, 165, 275, 276, 410 
Garnishing, 55, 165, 230, 302, 374 
Garum, 75 

Gherkin, 170, 302, 375 
Giblet, 184 

Gilly-flowers, 160, 165, 370 
Ginger, g5, 97, 100, 107, 135, 166, 230, 

241, 243, 247 
Glasse, Mrs., 141, 255, 257 
Glutton Mass, 115 
Gluttony, 24, 28, 80, 115-6, 136, 138, 265, 

278-85, 328, 402, 405, 415 
Goat fiesh, 42, 50, 84, 338, 397 
Goose, 57, 72, 80, 87, 103, 116, 120, 134, 

182, 198-9, 201, 230, 232, 244, 248, 251, 

256, 267, 278, 281, 301, 320, 360, 408, 

413 
Gooseberry, 143, 243, 249 



420 



INDEX 



Goose liver, 72, 212, 321 

Gorgonzola, 292 

Grace, 102-3, 386-7, 413 

Grape, 81, 86, 143, 259 

Grampus, 135 

Gravy, iii, 120, 138, 184, 212, 230, 249, 

298. 353, 379 
Griddle, 219, 306, 310 
Gridiron, 34 
Grill, 43 
Groats, 195, 207 
Grouse, 140, 184 
Gruel, 90, 114, 307 
Gruyere, 292 
Guests, 227-8, 234, 261, 299, 305, 349, 384, 

388, 391 
Guildliall, 116, 401-3 
Gurnard, 76 
Gut, 76 

Haokin, 197 

Haddoclf, 211, 248, 310, 411 

Haggis, 261, 29s, 336-7,411-2 

Ham, 180, 227, 298, 301, 353, 411 

Hare, 44, 72, 84, 87, 270, 409 

Haricot, 60-1, 183 

Hartlib, 144 

Harvest Home, 94, 206 

Hash, Hashis, 74, 162, 170, 183 

Hazel-nut, 86 

Heart, 171, 309 

Heliogabalus, 54, 272, 320, 363 

Herbs, 31, 44-6, 5o, 107, 120, 141, 163-4, 

166, 2i6, 246, 258 
Heron, 44, 87, 120, 248, 397, 408, 410 
Herring, 75, 88, 92-4, 97-8, 114, 120, 126, 

134-S, 202, 212, 293, 301-2, 353 
Hill, Dr., 235, 255 

Hog, 44, 75, 163, 280, 282, 290, 322, 337 
Hogg-tide, 80 
Honey, 35, 38-9, 43, 51, 61, 72, 74, 76, 

83-4, 92, 125, 195, 243, 268, 292, 307 
Honeymoon, 209 
Hors d'oeuvres, whets, snacks, 63, 180, 

301. 323. 375, 38s 
Horse (and ass) fiesh, 28, 290, 296, 322, 

349, 364 
Horse-bread, 188 

Hotch-potch, 183, 230, 283, 306, 308 
Hunger, i, 314, 334, 345 
Hunter, Dr., 235, 260 
Hunting (food), 25, 29, 41-2, 174-5, 254 
Hyssop, 140, 243, 246, 260 

ICES, 180, 256, 361 
Icing, 125, 208 

Jam, preserves, etc., 143, 246, 271 
Jelly, 76, III, 159, 242, 251-2, 260, 290, 
302,307,311,322,361,377 



Julep, 246 
Julienne, 184 
Junket, 204 

Kale, 80, 141-2, 307, 310 

Kale brose, 184 

Kangaroo flesh, 290, 297, 322 

Kern supper, 206 

Ketchup, 275 

Kickshaws, 115, 169, 180 

Kid, 42, 57, 84, 99, 228, 230, 251, 408 

Kidney, 184, 297 

Kitchen, 45, 55-7, 68, 71, 84, 89-90, 93 

100-2, 105-6, 113, 121, 159, 181-2, 228, 

231, 262, 390, 396, 402, 412 
Kitchen middens, 27-8 
Kitchiner, Dr., 235, 260-2 
Knives, 72, 161 
Knottes, 265-6 
Kuscoussoo, 303 

Lac acidum^ 83 

Lac dulce\ 83 

Lamb, 44, 87-8,99-100, 169, 171, 203, 251, 

276, 289, 308, 330, 341, 411 
Lamb, Charles, 32, 258, 347, 349 
Lamprey, 76, 88, 92, 114, 159, 163, 169, 

230, 242, 244, 248, 265, 269, 346 
Lapwing, 44, 408 
Larderer, 90, 105 
Larding-pin, 181 

Leek, 38, 60, 85, 142, 229, 243, 310 
Lemon, 126, 137, 165, 209, 244, 246, 249, 

251, 375 
LentUs, 41-3, 51, 59 
Lettuce, 85, 140, 244 
Leveret, 401, 408 
Lights, 72, 309 
Ling, 92 

Liqueurs, 125, 180, 301, 376, 388 
Liquorice, 213 
Lister, Dr., 235 

Liver, 72, in, 171, 256, 297, 309, 409 
Livery, 116, 119, 122, 402 
Loaf -day, 219 
Loaf-mass, 207 
Loaves, 43, 84, 90, 93, 103, 120, 147, 163 

l6S, 187-8, igi, 247, 280, 314, 409, 410 
" Loaves and fishes," 202 
Lobscouse, 184 
Locust, 39 
" Long pig," 32 
Lovage, 72, 75 
Lucullus, 56, 62, 361 
Luncheon, 64, 117, 212, 219 
Lycurgus, 47-8 

Macaroni, 29s, 302 
Mace, 100, III, 165, 243-14, 249 
Mackerel, 114, 136, 243, 293, 297 
Maize, 192 



INDEX 



421 



Mallard, 87, 34S 

Manchet, 165, 412 

Manciple, 233 

Manna, 40 

Marchepan, 165-6 

Marigold, 164-5, 258-9 

Marjoram, 228, 249 

Marmalade, 143, 276 

Marrow, 28, 241, 249, 251, 297 

Marrow bones, 106, 126-7, 216, 244, 250 

Martinmas, 134, 139, 198, 201, 207 

May, Robert, 249 

Mayerne, Dr., 235, 244 

Mead, 83, 253 

Meals, meal-times, etc., 24, 48, 50, 53, 65, 

80, 82, 102, 1 16-7, 119, 120-I, 129, 138, 

145, 167-9 
Meat, salted, 81, 93, 114, 134, 139, 167, 

179. 231, 322, 341 
Medlar, 86 
Mess, 48, 84, loi 
" Mess of Circe," 51 
Milk, 38, 41-3, 75, 78, 83, 95, 107, 140, 144, 

162, 166-7, 192, 243, 280, 291, 307, 311, 

325, 348, 408 
Millet, 296 

Mills, milling, 59, 187, 190, 192, 352 
Minces, 35, 75, 162, 168, 196-7, 225, 229, 

249, 308-9 
Mince pies, 134, 170, 172, 196-7, 199, 250, 

350 
Minstrel, 104 

Mint, 72, 140, 243, 247, 260, 276 
Mithridate, 56, 62, 247 
" Mock " dishes, 35 
Moorhen, 44, 408 
Morat, 83 

Mortrewes, 106-7, '62 
Moufle, 90 
Mulberry, 83 
Mullet, 57, 76, 170, 242 
Muligatawny, 184 
Mushroom, 53, 58, 62, 164, 251 
Mussel, 27 
Mustard, 92, 94, 120, 166, 171, 247, 274-5, 

277. 302, 30s. 3SS 

Mutton, so, 82, 93, 103, 112, 115, 121, 140, 
162, 167, 183, 197, 213, 270, 276, 280, 
301, 320, 330, 350, 352, 403, 411 

" Mutton-eating King," 176-8 

Nasturtium, 258 
Nectar, 31 
Nettle, 164, 243 
Nitmm, 73 
Nuts, 57, 81, 209, 287 
Nutmeg, 86, 97, 100, ill, 165, 247, 249, 
251, 300 

Oats, oatmeal, 35, 90, 163, 186, 190, 192, 
253.306-7.?" 



Oil, 63, 72, 75, 92, 120, 140, 236, 241, 274, 

301-2, 314, 410 
Olio, 225, 241, 295, 300, 309 
Olive, 62-3, 92, 140, 157, 270, 301, 350 
Olla podrida, 127, 300 
Onion, 57, 59, 61, 72, 85, in, 126, 140, 

164, 167, 184, ig6, 212, 229-30, 243, 274, 

292, 300-1, 306-7, 309, 321, 414 
Orangadoe, 143, 398 
Orange, 86, 137, 144, 150, 159, 165, 169, 

246, 249, 251, 254, 256, 259, 294, 313, 

408 
Ordinary, 138, 158 
Orgies, 49, 79-80, 134, 204 
Ortolans, 271 
Ostrich, 54, 76, 290-1, 320 
Ox, 80, 82, 88, 99-100, 106, 124, 140, 144, 

178, 242, 278, 404, 408, 409 
Ox^il, 212 
Oyster, 27, 44, 53, 57, 65, 114, 150, 171. 

244, 249, 251, 276, 281, 284, 293, 298, 
320-1, 353, 375, 405, 411 

Pancake, 200, 204, 213 

Panyer, 188 

Pap, 253, 268 

Parched corn, 43 

Parsley, 60, 72, 85, 140, 164, 232, 238, 308 

Parsnip, 85, 259 

Partridge, 87, 97-8, 242, 245, 248, 251, 

270, 340 408 
Pastry, 108, 150, 160, 165, 186, ig6, 213, 

245, 267 

Pasty, 88, 103, 115, 120, 150, 171-2, 212, 

274, 411 
Pate de fois gras, 212 
Patty, 172, 227, 347 
Peach, 142, 259, 346 
Peacock, 57, 81, 87, 109-10, 120, 138, 242, 

248, 268, 321, 366, 397-8, 410 
Pear, 46, 81, 86, 143, 150, 160, 163, 242 
Peas, 58-9, 85, 94, 159, 167, 172, 188, 192, 

201, 243, 308, 310, 320, 379 
Peascod, 136 
Pennyroyal, 72, 164 
Pepper, 72, 75, 80, 97, 100, 107, m, 135- 

6, 160, 165, 244-5, 300-1, 321-2, 355 
Periwinkle, 27, 321, 401 
Perfumes, 165, 245, 247 
Pheasant, 87, 97-8, 120, 138, 199, 242, 248, 

251, 26s, 328, 408 
Pickle, 72, 75-6, 97, 114, 159, 170, 183, 

258, 270, 301, 336, 375 
Pie, 106, 127, 136, 144, 150, 159, 163, 171- 

2, 180, 201, 212, 244, 248-9, 272, 280, 

3S0. 367 
Pig, 95, 103, III, 120, 124, 126, 137-8, 140, 

ISO, 163, 225, 251, 353, 406 
Pigeon, 72, 87, 115, 140, 169, 242, 248-9, 

256, 280-1, 403, 408-9 
Pike, 92, 126, 160, 163, 242, 248 
Pilchard, f26 



422 



INDEX 



Pimento, 125 

Pine tops, 72 

Pipe clay, 26 

Pippins, IIS, 251, 37S 

Pistace, 166, 283 

Plaice, 242, 248 

Plover, 87, 120, 127, 216, 242, 248, 251, 

291, 408 
Plum, 86, 142, 197, 206, 259 
Plum broth, 134, 250 
Plum cake, 19S, 216 
Plum pudding, 19S-6, 414 
Poisons, 62, 128 
Pomegranate, 86, 290 
Pompion, 75 
" Poor John," 254 
Pork, SS, 74-S, 82. 88. 97-8, 107, 116, 123, 

140, 162, 178, 212, 2S3, 270, 311, 320, 

330,341,411 
Porpoise, 80, 92, 136, 241, 248, 319-720 
Porridge, 186, 196, 310 
Posset, 171, 252 
Potato, 139, 141-2, 165, 184, 187, 191-2, 

242, 259, 274-s, 303, 310, 314-8, 3SS, 

360, 373, 414-5 
Pot-herbs, 58, 77, 85, 141-2, 164, 353 
Pottage, 41-2, 72, 84, 94, 141, 229, 241-2, 

370, 377. 408 
Powder douce, 229 

Poultry, 8r, 95, 97, 106, 135, 330, 353, 374 
Prawn, 269 
Prices current, 87-8, 92, 95, 98, 100, 135, 

138, 140, 171, 181, i8g 
Pudding, 134-6, 165, 196, 199, 201, 211, 

309. 347. 412. 416 
Pullet, 75, 82, 87-8, 140, 170, 280, 371, 

408 
Pulse, 46, 304, 315, 325 
Pumpkin, 164 
Puree, 184, 377 
Purslaine, 140 
Purveyance, 98, 122 
Pythagorean philosophy, 31-2, 49, 320 



Quails, 39, 40, 242, 248, 320, 401 

Quas, 302 

Quin, 158 

Quince, 86, 142-3, 150, 160, 251, 254 

Rabbit, 169, 171, 175, 251, 256, 280, 298, 

343. 4" 
Padish, 8s, 259, 301, 323, 348, 375 
RaiTald, 260 
Ragout, 58, 138, 180, 183, 256, 258, 29s, 

309, 370 
Raisin, 86, 159, 195, 201, 230, 243, 247, 

250, 37S 
Rarebit, Welsh, 29s, 304-5 
Raspberry, 143, 259 
Paw flesh, 25-6, 283, 297, 318, 320, 369 



"Readying" (a Tartar method) 26, 336, 

296 
Refectory, 89 
Reindeer, 28, 296, 330 
Remedial dietary, 60-1, 63, 76-7, 175, 229, 

235. 238, 245-7, 323 
Rhubarb, 143, 259 

Rice, 38, 165, 186, 192, 195, 247, 31s, 350 

Roach, 92 

Roast pig, 33^ 137 

Roasts, roasting, 57, 59, 167, 174, 179, 226, 

236, 274, 374, 377. 397 
Roe, 268, 291 
Rosemary, 243, 246, 260 
Rose-water, 165-6 
Rue, 72, 75 
Rumblethumps, 310, 
Rundell, 260 

Rye, 94, 126, 186, 190-2, 301 

SACRIFICES, 32, 37, 38, 43, 32s, 338 
Saddle of mutton, 183, 390 
Sage, 164, 243, 246, 260, 414 
Saffron, 97, 100, 107, in, 136, 152, 163, 
165-6, 216, 229, 231, 241, 243, 247, 250 
Salacacabia, 72, 74 
Salad, 134, 140-2, 166, 183, 250, 260, 

274-5. 313. 3S3. 361. 374 
Sal ammoniac, 73 
Sally Lunn, 2iS^ 
Salmon, 92, 114, 135, 150, 163-4, '7°. 242, 

248, 265-6, 276, 301, 310, 353, 411 
Salmagundi, 183, 260, 301 
Salsas, 97 
Salt, 35, 38, 80, 94, 97, 107, III, 114, 163, 

192, 243, 247, 274, 297, 356, 359 
Salt cellar, 103-4, 128, 365 
Samphire, 259 
Sandwich, 277, 292 
Saturnalia, 193-4 
Sauce, SI, 72, 75. io7. "5. 127, 138, 152, 

'59. 165. 216, 226, 228, 231, 241, 243, 

267, 275-6, 341, 361, 414 
Sausage, 55, 170, 183^ 197, 207, 213, 

251. 253, 270, 290, 295, 301, 314-5 
Scalco, 390 
Scones, 219, 276 
Scurvy, 139 
Sea-dog, 228 
Seal, 92, 319, 320 
Sea-wolf, 135 

Seasoning, 35, 48, 226, 236, 249, 350 
Stathcn, 80 
Serviette, napkin, 81, 90, 97, 138, 14S, 

ISO, 168, 380, 387-8, 400 
Sewery, 113, 121 
Shark's fins, 298 
Shad, 76, 159 
Sheep, 40 80, 82, 88, 103, 106, 139, 144, 

166, 178, 280, 328, 404, 409 
Sheep's feet, 136 
Sheep's head, 289, 306-8 



INDEX 



423 



Shell ash, 160 

Shortbread, 217 

Shrimps, 39, 242, 26s, 269, 298 

Simnel bread, 82, 103, 182, 187 

Simnel cake, 216-7 

Sin-eater, 216 

Sir Loin, 174-8, 2S0, 411 

Skimming, 57 

Slaughtering, S5. 82, 106, 138-9, 166, 

207, 225, 231, 328-9 
Smallage, 140 
Smelt, ISO, 164 
Smith, Sydney, 32, 341, 347 
Snail, 7S, 138, 312, 321 
Snipe, 400 
Soles, 242, 293, 348 
Sop, 241, 247, 397 
Sorrel, 243, 239, 260 
Soup, 72, 73, 80, 114, I34i 152, 160, 184, 

196, 201, 229, 231, 298, 302, 308, 361, 

374, 388, 408 
Sowens, 311 
Soyer, 263, 276 
Sparrow, 244 
Spicery, 57, 81, 83, 86, 92, 94, 97, 107, 

109, III, 113, 119, I2S, 127, 13s, 136, 

140, 165, 243, 253, 381, 398 
Spice bread, 82, 124, 166 
Spinach, 140, 164, 165, 401 
Spit, 34, 44, so, SS, 57. 79. 81, 84, 90, 

102, 147, IS7, 181-3, 22S-6 244, 267, 

409 
Spoon, 79, 107, 148, 152-4, 156, 160-162, 

339. 366, 388 
Sprat, 120, 126, 280 
Squab pie, 212-3 
StandEird bread, 191 
Steak, 174, 176, 289, 294, 304, 306, 309 
Stewing, 88, 114, 123, IS4, 162, 231, 300, 

303 
Stilton, 292 
Stockfish, 93, 13s 
Strawberry, 136, 143, 172 
Stuffing, log. III, 126, 22s 
Sturgeon, 92, 13S, 159, 160, 242, 248, 251, 

293 301 
Subtleties, sotelties, 92, 108-9, 124. 231. 

402-3 
Sucking pig, 34, 55, 289, 302 
Suet, 196, 207, 213, 302 
Sugar, 87, 107, 108, III, 13s, IS9. '6°. 

16s, 202, 204, 206, 208, 230-1, 243, 247, 

253. 355 

Sumptuary laws, 52, 94, 269 
Supper, so, 56, 58, 64, 63, 76, 84, n6, 119, 
120, 122, 126, 129, 14s, 168, 171, 326, 

254, 272, 278, 337, 397, 4" 

Swan, 44, 87, 109, no, in, 124, 126, 140, 

242, 248, 2Si, 397. 410 
Sweetbread, 130, 228, 249, 250 
Sweetmeats, 87, 124, 150, 159, 165, 203, 

«6o, 283, 344, 384 



Swine, 80, 84, 98, 239, 144, 188, 321 
Syrup, 74, 242 
Syssitia, 48, 49 

TABLE, so, SI, 57, 66, 79, 80, 83, 102, los, 

129, 176 
Tables volanies, 272 
Tail, 184, 289, 290 
Tansy, 170-1, 202, 213, 260 
Tart, 106, 150, 169, 171, 214, 242, 251, 

259. 283, 398 
Taster, 68, 113, 128 
Tea, 168 
Teal, 251, 408 
Tench, 92, 248 
Thrush, S3, 225 
Thyme, 140, 246, 249 
" Tickling the palate," S3 
Toad-in-the-hole, 184 
Toastmaster, ^93 
Toden, 186 
Toffy, 241 

Tongue, 170, 249, 231, 265, 268, 289, 401 
Tourt, 187-8 
Treacle, 247,-310 
Trencher, 79, 98, 114, 379, 411 
Trencher bread, 147 
Trete, 187, 190 
Trifle, 204 
Triclinium, 67, 71 
Tripe, 171, 233, 290, 306, 309, 411 
" Trojan pig," 53 
Trotters, 289, 307 
Truffle, 61, 271, 274, 276 
Tunny fish, 76 
Turbot, 53-4 
Turkey, 57, 13s, 170, 182-3, 281, 339, 

408 
Turnip, 32, 140, 165, 178, 183, 226, 307-8, 

310, 323 
Turnover, 21S 
Turnspit, x8i-2 
Turtle, 138, 290, 293, 299, 376 
Twelfth cake, 199-200 

Udder, 249 
Ude, 26, 262, 276 
Umbles, 171 

Unleavened bread, 40, 44 
Urn, 66 

Veal, 41, S7, 72, 82, 88, 126, 140, 169, 172, 

196, 201, 249, 280, 300, 330, 3S3, 403 
Vegetables, 114, 134, 139-40, 183, 192, 29s, 

300, 304, 339, 3S0 
Vegetarianism, 25, 31, 37, 43, 47, 49, 57-8, 

324-30 
Venison, 42, 81-2, 94, 103, 115, 120, 123, 

148, 171-2, 183, 240, 250, 271, 275, 2S4, 

353. 390. 406, 408, 410 
Venner, 238 



424 



INDEX 



Verjuice, 92, 94, 107, 165, 196 

Vessels (culinary and table), 54, 65, 66, 80, 
81, 83, 84, 90, 98, 99, 103, 112, 114, 137, 
148, 153, 184, 191, 259, 298, 339, 380-4, 

, 387. 396. 398-9 

Victualling, 93 

Vinegar, 72, 76, 92, 94, 107, 159, 245, 274, 

302, 321, 350, 360, 375 
Voidee, 381 

Wafer, 92, 123, 241, 398 

Wake, 204 

Waiting (table service), 67, 68, 80, 83, 84, 

loi, 103, 121, 126, 128, 242, 363, 387-8, 

400, 410, 412, 415 
Walnut, 86, 143, 144, 160, 208, 247, 259, 

373 
Warner, 402 



Wastel, 82, 103, 187, 190 

Wayzgoose, 207 

Whale, 293 

Whale blubber, 26, 135 

Wheat, 40, 80, 93, 95, 163, 166, 185, 189, 
190, 191, 192, 352 

Whelk, 92 

Whey, 167, 246 

Whig, 166, 167 

Wholemeal, 186 

Wine, 48, 50, SI, 66, 7S, 83, 87, 92, 93, 94, 
97, 98, 103, 106, III, 119, 120, 124, 125, 
126, 136 143, 14s, 159, i68> 169. 171, 172, 
201, 207, 209, 234, 246, 307, 350, 366, 
373, 401, 410 

Winter Keep, 178-9, 243 

Woodcock, 248, 251, 267, 296, 408 

Woolly, 255 



UNWIN BROTHERS, UMITED, THE GRESHAM PRESS, WOKING AND LONDON. 



